 b"I  IMAGINE  him  in  his  prime.  A  fairly  rich  [REDACTED]  farm  boy  newly  cured  of  beinga  farm  boy  by  what  he  called  Th'War,  meaning  the  second  one.  He'd  signed  up  in  Charlottesville  when  most  of  his  fraternity  had  done  it  as  a  group,  and  up  till  then  he  had  been  somewhat  humorlessly  typical.  He  had  been  hung  up  with  the  rest  of  them  in  the  fraternity  of  the  university  that  Jefferson  designed,  and  he  was  as  lean  and  carefully  prepared  as  all  the  very  best  [REDACTED]  hams.  And  it  would  seem  to  follow  that,  in  1942,  my  father  be-  gan  being  made  more  valuable  by  several  years  of  smoke.  But  this  smoke  was  not  the  curative  [REDACTED]  kind;  it  was  the  high-flying  smoke  of  German  cities  burning.  My  father  was  a  bom-  bardier.  He  became  a  minor  hero  in  the  Second  World  War  and  a  major  hero  in  the  Commonwealth  of  [REDACTED].  He  was  photographed  as  Betty  Grable  stood  on  tiptoe  to  kiss  him.  He  was  tall.  He  still  is.  But  his  height  meant  most  when  he  was  dressed  as  an  officer  in  our  Army  Air  Corps.  Today,  in  civ-  vies,  he  is  just  another  mildly  handsome  businessman.  It  was  in  uniform  that  Father  looked  most  like  himself.  Heroes  should  have  looks.  His  were  better  than  most,  better  than  whole-  some.  It  was  one  of  those  faces  that  fit  handsomely  into  photographs  and  under  a  brimmed  cap.  It  seemed  to  know  in  every  pose  that  captions  would  be  under  it  eventually.  His  profile,  nearly  as  good  as  a  Barrymore's,  was  better  for  being  blunted  slightly  by  boarding-school  boxing.  With  very  combed  blond  hair  waving  back  in  the  way  hair  did  then,  his  was  aface  that  even  from  the  front  told  much  about  itself  in  silhouette.  Many  of  the  photos  still  exist.  When  I  was  a  child  in  the  years  just  after  that  war,  people  cornered  me  with  accounts  of  my  father's  valor.  They  told  me  in  front  of  other  chil-  dren  how,  though  everybody's  father  had  certainly  helped  with  it,  mine  had  done  more  than  most  to  insure  that  the  Nazi  plot  to  rule  the  world-to  rule  the  very  ground  onwhich  this  birth-  day  party  was  now  taking  place-had  been  crushed  by  the  Americans.  They  mentioned  the  Freedoms,  four  in  all,  and  promised  that  the  wholeworld  was  now  capable  of  worshipping  in  whichever  ways  it  chose.  They  said  to  me,  &quot;Do  you  know  what  your  father  did?&quot;  I  was  told  how  people  had  print-  ed  &quot;Welcome  Richard!&quot;  on  broad  banners  made  ofsheets  that  stretched  all  the  way  across  Main  Street.  But  before  the  war  was  won  and  he  came  home  there  was  the  business  about  what  they  made  my  grandmother  do.  She  was  a  remarkably  shy  woman,  even  for  then.  In  [REDACTED],  in  1942,  shyness  was  less  unusual  than  it  is  to-  day.  Both  her  parents'  families  had  been  equally  distinguished  and  austere,  and,  as  if  to  commemorate  this,  she  parted  her  hair  impartially  down  the  middle  and  most  always  wore  the  same  rare  brooch  at  the  exact  center  of  her  collar  and  throat.  I  once  saw  her  hiding  in  the  dark  back  hallway  of  her  house;  eyes  opened  very  wide,  she  stood  against  a  wall,as  unwanted  guests  on  the  front  porch  repeatedly  rang  the  door  chimes.  She  had  been  reared  at  home  with  her  three  sisters,  on  a  [REDACTED]  side  street,  ina  house  cool  most  of  the  year  with  the  amount  of  marble  in  it:  veined  tabletops,  hearths  arched  and  white  as  tombs,  classical  statuary,  athletic  and  luminous  in  dark  corners.  The  marble  hearths  and  statues  floated  upright  in  the  house's  murk,  thetabletops  rode  the  gloom  like  oval  rafts.  It  seemed  the  marble  objects  were  the  rooms'  true  residents,  directing  every  household  current  into  eddies  split  around  them-  selves  and  cooling  off  whatever  drifted  past  them.,  But  Grandmother's  wish  for  the  stillness  of  1909  was  inappropriate  in  1942.  There  was  a  war  going  on,  and  her  son  did,  as  they  told  her,  seem  cru-  cial  to  the  local  view  of  it.  They  put  much  unnecessary  pressure  on  a  lady  so  easily  swayed.  All  it  took  was  one  un-  scrupulous  question  about  how  much  patriotism  she  really  felt  as,  after  all,  a  longtime  member  of  the  D.A.R.  At  this,  she  said  that  yes,  yes,  she  would  do  it,  but  only  if  they  did  not  ask  her  to  speak.  Of  course,  those  present  assured  her,  she  wouldn't  have  to  utter  one  syl-  lable  she  didn't  rightly  feel  she  could  or  should  utter.  But  no  one  believed  she  would  stay  silent  once  she  got  up  there  and  got  the  feel  of  it  from  all  the  bunt-  ing  hung  around.  They  forced  her,  in  this  way,  to  sit  on  public  platforms.  When  the  speaker  selling  War  Bonds  acknowledged  her,  seated  there  as  for-  mal  as  her  central  brooch,  she  winced  in  recognition  of  her  name  and  nodded  back  to  him  and  tried  to  smile  out  at  the  audience  like  a  mother,  but  she  looked  like  a  potentially  bereaved  one.  Mrs,  Roosevelt  herself  came  through  on  a  decorated  train  and  got  off  and  walked  over  to  the  platform  they'd  set  up  outside  the  station,  and  not  even  then  would  my  grandmother  speak  a  public  sentence  to  those  gathered  on  the  street  and  hanging  out  the  windows  of  the  Bank  and  those  who  dangled  legs  like  extra  letters  over  the  sign  usually  spelling  Epstein's  Finer  Men's  Apparel.  Suspended  from  four  lampposts  were  giant  photos  of  my  father  in  uniform,  in  profile.  When  Mrs.  Roosevelt  came  over,  as  the  ceremony  ended,  and  said  how  handsome  my  father  must  be,  to  judge  from  his  pictures  over  there,  my  grandmother  finally  spoke.  She  was  nodding  and  thanking  Eleanor  Roose-  velt  as  an  equal  when  she  noticed  Mrs.  Roosevelt  wore  no  hat,  which  seemed  odd  in  one  of  her  station.  What  she  was  wearing,  its  weight  tugging  at  the  fabric  of  one  shoulder,  was  a  huge  pale,  widemouthed  orchid  which,  some  sug-  gested  afterwards,  had  looked  much  like  her.  But  Mrs.  Roosevelt  had  won  them  over  nonetheless,  and  it  was  lucky  that  others  overheard  what  she  said  to  Grandmother  about  my  father's  good  looks.  Grandmother  would  never  have  repeated  it  to  anyone.  Though  she  ac-  knowledged  things  graciously,  she  nev-  er  started  them.  In  this  way,  she  had  become  an  adult  and  then  a  wife  and,  quite  soon  after  that,  a  mother.  Some  were  annoyed  by  this  belief  of  hers  that  silence  was  always  in  good  taste,  but  most  people  felt  it  was  probably  fine  the  way  she  was;  that  somehow  it  was  more  patriotic  for  awife  and  mother  not  to  say  too  much-except,  of  course,  for  Mrs.  Roosevelt,  and  some  people  even  felt  that  way  about  Mrs.  Roose-  velt.  HE  photograph  of  Betty  Grable  kissing  my  father's  flat  cheek  seemed  to  hold  the  house  up.  I  was  born  in  1947  and,  as  far  as  I  knew,  it  had  always  been  there.  People  who  did  not  come  often  to  the  house  would  sometimes  ask  to  see  it.  They  were  led  back  to  the  den,  where  it  was  hung  with  the  medals.  Smiling,  they  stooped  to  get  the  reflection  of  the  picture  win-  dow  off  of  it,  and  they'd  shake  their  heads  and  nod  appreciatively.  I  remem-  ber  someone's  saving  that  when  you  were  young  during  a  war  it  is  hard  to  know  later  if  you  liked  being  young  during  a  war  or  liked  just  being  young  or  maybe  even  the  war  itself,  who  knows?  In  the  picture,  hedoes  not  return  her  kiss  but  stands  there;  a  statuesque  " b"soldier,  newly  decorated  for  minor  heroism,  accepts  the  homage  of  a  dis-  tant  voluptuous  country.  He  is  enjoy-  ing  it  probably,  but  hedoes  not  smile,  for  at  that  moment  the  fate  of  the  Western  world  as  we  now  know  it  still  hung  in  the  balance.  But  Betty  Grable  could  smile.  It  was  all  right  if  she  did,  and  the  official  Army  photographer,  whose  job  it  was  to  photograph  the  wake  of  morale  she  left  behind,  snapped  an  Army  camera,  and  there  it  was-on  most  front  pages  in  [REDACTED]  and  with  practically  the  whole  page  to  itself  in  the  local  Herald  Traveler.  And  though  manliness  and  the  national  moment  forbade  he  show  it,  ves,  certainly  my  father  was  enjoying  the  kiss  synchro-  nized  with  flashbulbs,  just  as  local  boys  too  young  to  go  themselves  were  not  too  young  to  go  at  themselves  sev-  eral  times  a  day  upon  finding  this  home-town  representative  in  a  favorite  national  fantasy  with  a  Grable  whose  legs  were  here  not  even  photographed  to  advantage,  though  the  boys  knew  them  well  enough  from  other  pictures.  But  when  I  was  eight  years  old,  some  adult  would  take  me  aside  and  say,  &quot;David,  do  you  know  what  your  father  did  before  you  were  even  born?  Has  he  told  you  about  what  he  did?&quot;  I  said  I  didn't  know  for  sure  but  that  they  used  to  paint  little  German  planes  on  their  bombers  every  time  they  shot  a  real  one  down,  and  my  Daddy's  score  was  very  high.  They  said  no,  not  that.  Not  exactly.  It  was  [REDACTED],  the  ter-  rible  and  decisive  firebombing  of  Dres-  den,  that  had  been  his  real  moment.  I  nodded  and  always  imagined  a  city  of  plate  and  saucer  monuments  and  crockery  apartments  and   wartime's  smoking  smokestacks  made  of  stacked  white  bottomless  coffee  cups,  And  in  the  center  of  the  shining  city  was  an  oil  depot,  looking  very  like  a  soup  tureen  of  Mother's-a  white  one  too  large  for  just  us  to  use  but  brought  out  for  din-  ner  parties  and  reunions  and  once,  I  remembered,  filled  with  vegetable  al-  phabet  soup.  I'd  stood,  amazed  to  see  the  very  spindly  alphabet  I  was  then  learning  to  draw  between  blue  lines  fattened  up  and  floating  on  the  top  of  something  I  and  all  my  family,  even  my  illiterate  younger  brother,  could  drink  down  like  reading.  But  the  tu-  reen  I  imagined  there  in  [REDACTED]  was  a  million  gallons  high  and  filled  to  the  top  with  thecrudest,blackest  German  oil  that  fuelled  the  deadly  U-boats.  A  remarkable  target  for  my  father  in  his  clear  air  over  the  heart  of  gleaming  [REDACTED].  In  my  conception,  the  black  bomb  wobbles  toward  the  very  shadow  of  it  growing  on  the  glossy  upper  disc  of  all  those  gallons.  The  life-sized shadow  meets  the  real  bomb  falling  in  and  going  off  down  at  the  very  bottom.  Such  beautiful  war-movie  slow  motion  now  allows  a  perfect  view  of  all  the  damage  as  the  tank  pops  jaggedly  open  and  out  the  gallons  gush  into  the  tran-  quil  city.  Black  oil  gluts  the  sewers  of  the  sanitation  system.  The  overflow  is  fingering  up  and  out  into  the  gutters  and  makes  a  black  street  map  of  the  white  municipality.  Borne  along  in  the  dark  gloss  are  clusters  of  diced  carrots  and  chopped  celery  from  my  mother's  kitchen,  and  there  come  the  fat  paste  letters  ofthe  alphabet,  movable  type  sucked  down  with  the  black  into  the  gasping  manholes.  The  level  rises-fill-  ing,  incidentally,  the  holes,  which  are  the  handles  of  the  chaste  white  coffee  cups.  Darkness  crawls  about  and  then  above  the  town  and  finally  defines  a  surface  that  a  cup  or  saucer  may  float  along  on  briefly,  till  tilting,  then  filling  viscously,  they  sink  in,  one  by  one,  un-  til  they  all  are  underneath.  Now  ev-  erything  is  underneath.  All  the  quaint,  ness  of  [REDACTED],  all  the  cuckoo  clocks  are  under,  all  the  perfect  German  sheet  music  played  by  countless  amateurs  on  Sundays,  and,  worst  for  me,  all  the  in-  edible  lost  letters  of  my  mother's  Eng-  lish  alphabet  have  become  one  glossy  black  deluge  which  now  shows  just  the  tiny  moving  shadow  of  my  father's  bomber,  speeding  back  to  England,  back  to  the  556e6974656420537461746573O.  show,  which  will  not  begin  till  he  is  there  in  a  seat  being  saved  for  him.  The  photographers  are  smoking  at  the  airport  now;  they  are  awaiting  him.  They  are  men  alsoin  the  Army.  Their  job  is  to  photograph  the  bom-  bardiers  like  my  handsome  father,  crawling  from  the  cockpit  less  exerted  than  excited  by  the  damage  he  has  done,  looking  as  clean  and  highly  combed  as  when  he  left  an  hour  ago.  UT  by  the  time  I  was  imagining  the  bombing  of  [REDACTED],  my  fa-  ther  was  done  with  all  that.  The  war  had  been  won.  [REDACTED]'s  place  setting  was  being  sorted  out.  With  Europe  having  an  Occupation  forced  upon  it,  it  was  time  my  father  settled  into  a  job  himself.  His  fading  local  glamour,  at  least,  proved  useful  in  helping  him  choose  a  career.  Cashing  in  on  people's  memories  of  him,  he  became  an  insur-  ance  salesman.  It  was  not  hard,  sell-  ing  insurance,  and  with  the  certificates  Grandfather  had  left  him,  with  the  smattering  of  rents  collected  from  the  colored-tenant  houses-the  only  rem-  nants  of  Grandmother's  &quot;fortune&quot;--  Father  felt  he  could  more  than  make  " b"do.  He  married  a  clever  girl  he'd  met  at  a  deb  party  before  the  war.  He  brought  her  south  from  [REDACTED]  and  carried  her  into  a  thirty-thou-  sand-dollar  house  already  paid  for  in  advance  by  his  cashing  incertificates  in  companies  making  aluminum  and  small-screened  televisions-all  compa-  nies  on  the  brink  of  booming  when  he  sold  their  stocks.  But  though  he  was  without  much  business  sense,  still  there  was  the  thirty-thousand-dollar  house,  much  larger  than  what  one  could  buy  oneself  today  for  that  amount  of  money.  So  my  father  and  my  moth-  er  moved  into  a  house  that  echoed  slightly  because  it  had  more  rooms  than  furniture.  Sometimes  the  guest  room  was  occupied  by  a  recurrent  itinerant  aunt;  but  when  she  was  gone  the  doors  were  closed,  the  heating  ducts  turned  off,  and  three  bedrooms,  now  accommodating  only  boxes  full  of  un-  used  wedding  gifts,  again  stood  very  vacant.  My  father  still  wrote  to  war  bud-  dies.  They  often  passed  through  town  en  route  to  [REDACTED],  howling  in  through  the  front  door  to  hug  him.  A  lot  of  them  were  dark  men,  hairy  in  a  war  my  father  and  his  fair  [REDACTED]  friends  were  not.  It  seemed  that  all  New  Yorkers  were  brown-eyed  and  sooty  from  the  city;  they  looked  odd  here  in  the  clear  to  amber  light  of  eastern  [REDACTED].  Mentioning  their  wives  wait-  ing  out  in  the  car,  they  lifted  eyebrows  suggestively,  as  in  theold  days-as  if  that  were  some  notorious  and  easy  girl  out  there.  Mother  never  liked  their  wives  much,  and  when  they'd  left  Fa-  ther  told  her  she  was  a  snob.  &quot;War  buddies'  wives  are  not  necessarily  war  buddies  themselves,&quot;  she  quipped.  Once,  when  he  insisted,  after  hanging  up  the  phone,  that  they  drive  two  hundred  miles  to  a  motel  where  someone  from  his  squadron  was  staying  on  the  way  to  [REDACTED],  she  said,  &quot;Show  him  my  picture,&quot;  and  settled  luxuriously  back  onto  the  couch  with  the  latest  novel  by  Daphne  du  Maurier.  &quot;He  already  saw  your  picture  and  he's  heard  more  about  you  than  you'd  ever  guess!&quot;  my  father  shouted  as  he  stormed  out  with  the  car  keys  and  an  unopened  bot-  tle  of  Jack  Daniel's  and,  slamming  the  door,  rattled  the  china  cabinet.  Very  earlythe  next  morning,  he  came  in  drunkand  in  a  loud  voice  over  the  telephone  cancelled  an  afternoon  ap-  pointment  to  sell  Group  Life.  My  mother  wandered  down  to  breakfast  in  her  quilted  yellow  housecoat,  and  no-  ticed  a  broken  headlight  on  the  Pack-  ard  parked  at  the  wrong  angle  outside.  When  they'd  settled  at  the  table,  cof-  fee  poured,  she  offered  him  the  usual  tirade  about  his  egotism,  her  suffering,  and  their  marriage,  which  she  liked  to  say  was  &quot;crumbling,  Richard,  crum-  bling!&quot;  I  sat  eating  scrambled  eggswith  a  big  round  training  spoon,  and  my  younger  brother  dropped  his  baby  bottle  on  the  floor,  thenlooked  down  at  it  till  I  picked  it  up.  &quot;Oh  yeah?&quot;  my  father  said.  And  then  she  said,  &quot;Don't  you  use  that  trashy  New  York  slang  around  your  children.&quot;  &quot;Oh  yeah?&quot;  he  said.  UT  when  you  are  definitely  home  from  the  European  Theatre,  which  is  dead  now,  and  war  buddies  you'd  have  given  your  life  for  then  make  phone  calls  less  and  less  frequent-  ly,  are  more  and  more  just  Christmas  cards  with  photos  of  new  children,  cards  signed  ina  woman's  hand,  when  insurance  (fire,  burglary,  auto,  and  life)  is  now  what  people  think  of  when  they  think  of  you,  when  Marilyn  Monroe  is  filling  the  shoes  of  Betty  Grable,  who's  retired,  what  do  you  do  then?  You  find  that  the  headaches  are  due  to  your  suddenly  needing  reading  " b"glasses.  You  resign  yourself  to  buying  bourbon  by  the  case  because  it  is  cheap-  cr  andyou  now  have  room  to  store  that  much,  and  you  have  no  doubt  that  it  will  somehow  get  drunk  up.  You  call  your  two  sons  &quot;soldiers&quot;  when  they  submit  stiff-faced,  thin-armed,  to  Jonas  Salk's  discovery.  You  pay  some-  one  to  keep  the  yard  worthy  of  your  wartime  aerial-photo  vision  of  its  sym-  metry  and  shape  from  overhead.  You  take  your  wife  to  the  occasions  you  count  on  the  country  club  to  invent,  and  there,  with  friends  who  have  be-  come  clients  and  friends  who  have  not  become  clients  and  with  clients  who  want  to  become  your  friends,  the  two  of  you  get  more  than  genteelly  drunk,  even  by  [REDACTED]  standards.  And  after-  ward,  after  the  babysitter  has  been  overpaid  to  cover  your  tardiness  and  the  fact  that  the  front  of  your  jacket  is  dark  from  some  accidental  spillage,  and  to  cover  the  expense  of  the  cab  that  must  be  called  to  get  her  home,  in  the  silence  after  that,  of  the  house  becom-  ing  increasingly  more  valuable  as  the  boxwoods  expand  themselves  outside,  with  the  hint  of  dawn  coming  on,  you  both  manage  to  know  what  a  prime  moment  in  the  history  of  your  physiques  this  is.  Otherwise,  you  learn  to  make  do,  and  when  some  threat  arises  you  are  soldierly  in  disposing  of  it.  Almost,  there  are  not  enough  threats  any-  more.  Here  you  are,  among  the  most  successful  of  the  bombardiers,  now  grounded,  in  the  awful  safety  of  this  decade,  in  its  suburbs.  You  do  what  you  can  around  the  house  and  grounds  to  re-create  some  of  that  drama  you  re-  member  from  the  forties,  All  the  events  that  made  one's  life  eventful:  The  Axis.  Roosevelt  Dead.  4a6170616e.  The  furnace  explodes  early  one  morning.  You  carry  [REDACTED]  outside,  dump  her  onto  a  lawn  chair,  rush  back  for  the  sleeping  boys,  dash  across  the  street  and  pull  the  fire  alarm.  Later,  the  fire  chief  emerges  from  the  base-  ment  of  the  house  and  ambles  around  the  engine  and  out  toward  your  family  group,  huddled  in  pajamas  among  the  neighbors,  who  have  brought  blan-  kets,  coffee,  garden  hoses.  &quot;Nothing  serious,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;The  furnace  sort  of  exploded.  A  little  soot,  but  nothing  serious.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  'nothing  seri-  ous'?  You  should  have  heard  it.  I  thought  we  were  being  attacked  or  something.&quot;  &quot;Noisy,&quot;  the  fire  chief  admits,  scratching  his  head,  trying  to  be  both  tactful  and  professional,  &quot;but  nothing  serious.&quot;  The  next  day,  you  order  a  fire-alarm  system  for  the  house.  While  the  chil-  dren  grumble,  while  a  siren  howls  and  neighbors  watch  over  fences,  you  stage  your  first  weekly  fire  drill.  After  two  of  these,  the  drills  are  discontinued.  It  is  a  personal  affront  when  tent  caterpillars  invade  four  of  the  yard's  eleven  trees.  A  neighbor  says  you'll  have  to  burn  them  out;  onlythingthey  understand.  The  yardman  prepares  to  do  it,  till  you  curtly  give  him  the  day  off.  This  job,  worthy  of  you,  willre-  quire  a  little  strategy.  There  are  mo-  ments  when  a  father  and  his  boys  must  work  together.  Standing  in  the  back  door,  you  shout,  &quot;Now  is  the  time  for  all  good  boys  to  come  to  the  aid  of  their  father  and  their  yard!&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asks.  You  put  a  torch  together-a  broom  handle,  rags,  some  kerosene.  You  ignite  it  with  your  wartime  Zippo.  Up  into  the  infested  tree  nearest  the  house  you  crawl.  This  is  a  mission;  for  once,  in  peacetime,  you  know  exactly  what  you're  going  to  do.  The  boys  watch  idly  from  the  ground  as  you  sear  the  first  lumps  of  worms  out  of  the  plum  tree.  Smoke  suddenly  everywhere  and  such  a  smell.  &quot;You  two  down  there,  don't  just  stand  around.  Stomp  on  the  ones  getting  away.&quot;  Clusters  of  black  caterpillars,  pounds  of  them,  are  toppling  from  their  webs,  falling  to  the  ground  and  steaming.  Making  girlish  noises,  your  sons  start  hopping  on  the  smoldering  worms.  Bradley  jogs  about,  eyes  straight  ahead;  he  lifts  his  knees  and  makes  a  calisthenic  game  of  it.  Feeling  dizzy,  David  shuts  his  eyes,  holds  out  his  arms  for  balance,  and  earnestly  pretends  he's  dancing,  though  his  tennis  shoes  keep  slipping  out  from  under  him.  In  the  tree,  you  find  you've  started  muttering  almost  forgotten,  complicat-  ed  curses  from  the  war  as,  one  by  one,  you  solemnly  eradicate  these  colonies  of  pests.  Your  sons'  whimpering  under  the  tree  infuriates  you  suddenly.  &quot;Shut  up  down  there,  you  two.  You'll  do  your  job  and  keep  your  mouths  closed.  These  things  are  going  to  get  to  other  trees.  They'll  get  over  into  the  Ben-  netts'  vard  if  we  don't  kill  them  now.  This  is  no  game  here,  this  is  an  emer-  gency,  so  quit  squealing  like  sissies  and  stomp  on  them.  Is  that  clear?&quot;  Your  two  children  look  up  at  the  orange  glow  inside  the  tree,  at  a  single  wing-tip  shoe  visible  among  the  leaves.  In  unison,  they  say,  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  II~MY  ELDER  SON  I\xe2\x80\x99M  not  as  young  as  I  used  to  be  and  it  follows  that  my  sons  aren't  either.  Bradley,  our  baby,  is  twenty-five  now  and  makes  twenty  thousand  dollars  a  year.  He  graduated  third  in  his  class  " b"from  the  Law  School  of  the  University  of  [REDACTED].  He's  now  with  a  fine  corporation-law  firm  working  out  of  [REDACTED].  Brad  married  Elaine  last  May,  at  a  garden  wedding  that  was  rained  outbut  that  was  nice  anyway.  The  bridesmaids'  dresses  were  made  of  some  thin  material  that  got  transparent  when  wet.  Elaine  is  from  a  fine  old  [REDACTED]  family.  Her  father  served  as  Attorney  General  of  the  state  a  few  administrations  back.  Now  Brad  and  Elaine  are  renovating  a  town  house  in  [REDACTED],  doing  most  of  the  work  themselves.  What  with  Elaine's  small  private  income  and  her  looks  and  taste,  and  with  Brad's  salary,  my  wife  and  I  feel  good  about  their  progress  in  life.  Elaine  always  remembers  us  with  little  cards  and  gifts  on  birthdays  and  an-niversaries.  It's  a  comfort.  David  is  our  elder  son.  He's  twenty-  seven  and  a  mystery  to  me.  Two  years  ago  he  gave  up  a  fairly  good  job  as  a  designer  of  furniture.  He  decided  to  become  a  writer.  When  he  was  home  last  Christmas,  we  heard  him  typing  a  few  times,  but  he  never  offered  to  show  us  anything  he'd  written.  I  have  no  doubt  that  it's  good.  He  has  always  had  a  real  flair  for  the  arts.  But  if  you've  never  read  a  word  your  sonhas  writ-  ten  and  if  you  understand  the  kind  of  money  a  writer  can  expect  to  make,  it's  hard  to  work  up  any  real  enthusiasm  for  this  occupation.  To  support  himself  while  he  writes  on  his  novel,  he  does  articles  for  a  mag-  azine  called  Dance  TV  orld.  When  peo-  ple  ask  me  what  he's  doing,  I  tell  them  he  writes  for  a  magazine  in  New  York.  If  they  ask  me  which  one,  then  I'm  forced  to  level  with  them.  I'd  have  to  be  a  writer  myself  to  describe  the  sink-  ing  feeling  I  get  when  I  tell  this  about  my  elder  son.  [REDACTED]  says  that  my  atti-  tude  in  the  matter  is  unreasonable.  All  I  know  is,  the  first  year  he  worked  for  the  magazine  he  sent  us  a  free  sub-  scription,  and  it  got  so  I  couldn't  even  stand  to  see  copies  on  the  coffee  table.  I  could  hardly  believe  some  of  the  pic-  tures  of  the  men.  Looking  at  them,  you  didn't  know  whether  to  laugh  or  ery  or  get  angry  or  what.  My  wife  also  informs  me  that  there  are  two  kinds  of  dance,  ballet  and  modern,  and  that  David's  specialty  is  modern.  [REDACTED]  says,  with  lots  of  en-thusiasm,  that  modern  is  less  costumed  and  more  athletic  than  ballet.  Some-  how,  knowing  this  doesn't  help.  You  might  say  David  and  I  have  never  really  seen  eye  to  eye.  He  has  al-  ways  had  certain  mannerisms  and  his  talents  are  unlike  my  own.  When  he  was  younger  he  stayed  pale  from  spending  too  much  time  indoors.  I  kept  telling  [REDACTED]  that  one  day  he'd  dis-  cover  the  world  outside.  I  said,  &quot;Now  he  keeps  a  diary,  he  paints  still-life,  he  reads  French  likea  Frenchman,  but  believe  youme,  one  day  he'll  come  around.  You  watch.&quot;  Isee  I  might  have  been  wrong.  He's  twenty-seven  years  old  and  I  think  the  only  women  he  ever  talks  to  are  wait-resses.  He  lives  with  some  &quot;actor-  model&quot;  roommate.  We  had  lunch  with  them  in  New  York.  The  roommate  met  us  at  the  restaurant.  I  was  expect-  ing  somebody  thin  who  looked  pretty  much  like  David.  In  walks  this  big,  broad-shouldered  kid,  taller  than  me  and  with  a  suntan  and  a  jaw  like  a  life-  guard's.  For  a  second,  I  was  ashamed  of  myself  for  having  jumped  to  certain conclusions.  Then  the  first  thing  I  no-  ticed  was  his  handshake.  One  ofthose  dead  fish.  Second  thing  I  noticed  was  that  he'd  smashed  his  thumbnail  in  something;  it  was  black.  Third  thing  was  that  all  his  fingernails  were  black.  Nail  polish.  I  could  hardly  understand  what  this  meant.  I  thought  it  must  be  for  medicinal  purposes,  because  how  could  anybody  do  that  for  decoration?  [REDACTED]  was  staring  so  hard  I  had  to  nudge  her  under  the  table.  Usually  she's  the  one  nudging  me.  Afterwards  she  said  she  wouldn't  have  been  so  startled  ifit  had  been  red  polish,  but  black?  Now  that  we've  met  Jacques,  he  seems  to  be  everywhere  we  look.  [REDACTED]  never  forgets  a  face,  and  she  keeps  finding  his  picture  in  magazine  ads- " b"mostly  for  whiskey  and  shirts,  once  for  soap.  In  these  ads  his  nails  are  never  black.  I  won't  get  over  that.  The  kid  looked  like  he  should  be  on  the  [REDACTED]  Olympic  team  carrying  a  torch-and  then  the  handshake,  the  nails,  and  his  trying  to  talk  all  during  lunch  about  the  music  of  the  forties.  He  kept  asking  [REDACTED]  and  me  about  Kay  Kyser  and  his  Kollege  of  Musical  Knowlege,  and  about  the  Andrews  Sisters.  [REDACTED]  sur-  prised  me  by  remembering  the  name  of  each  Andrews  Sister  and  knowing  which  one  had  died.  She  entered  right  into  the  discussion.  He  asked  her  how  it  felt  to  have  heard  &quot;Tangerine&quot;  when  it  was  new,  and  [REDACTED]  was  sitting  right  there  telling  him.  Jacques  kept  saying  over  and  over  again,  &quot;What  a  period,  what  a  period!&quot;  For  a  person  like  myself,  who  loved  the  forties,  the  silliness  of  this  kind  of  conversation  made  me  sick.  As  if  anybody  like  that  could  ever  understand  what  it  meant  to  be  alive  then.  You  send  your  sons  to  the  best  schools  possible,  and  you  hope  that  their  friends  will  be  bright  kids  from  similar  backgrounds.  Sometimes  I  won-  der  what  my  son  and  this  type  of  per-  son  have  in  common.  Then  I  take  a  guess,  and  right  away  I'm  wishing  I  could  forget  my  own  conclusions.  I  was  not  going  to  mention  it,  but  as  long  as  I've  built  up  this  much  steam  I  might  as  well.  Last  spring,  David  came  down  to  his  brother's  wedding  in  [REDACTED].  We  were  glad  he  came.  It  was  right  that  he  should  be  there,  but  I  won't  even  begin  to  describe  the  per-  son,  the  creature,  he  brought  along  with  him.  Everyone  who  saw  this  par-  ticular  person  immediately  got  very  dis-  turbed.  This  particular  person  some-  how  managed  to  get  into  and  spoil  about  half  of  Bradley  and  Elaine's  wedding  pictures.  Elaine's  parents  were  obliged  to  find  a  place  for  David  and  his  guest  to  stay  during  the  weekend  of  the  wedding.  They  were  certainly  very  gracious  about  it  and  never  said  one  word  about  this  person's  appear-  ance.  But  [REDACTED]  was  so  upset  and  em-  barrassed  she  cried  most  of  the  nights  we  were  there.  Because  of  the  strain,  she  looked  terrible  at  the  wedding.  F  course,  it  was  [REDACTED]  who  was  always  telling  David  he  was  gift-  ed.  She  was  enrolling  him  in  adult  art  classes  with  nude  models  when  he  was  twelve  damn  years  old,  buying  him  twenty-dollar  picture  books  full  of  ab-  stract  paintings,  driving  him  fifteen  miles  to  the  next  town  because  our  local  barbers  couldn't  &quot;cut  with  the  curl.&quot;  I  told  her  she  was  spoiling  him,  but  be-  yond  that  what  could  I  do?  I'd  always said  that  the  boys  should  have  nothing  but  the  best.  No,  I'm  definitely  not  blaming  [REDACTED].  After  all,  that's  one  reason  you  make  your  money,  so  you  can  spoil  your  kids  in  a  way  you  weren't.  You  start  off  with  a  child,  a  son,  and  forthe  first  six  years  he's  on  your  side.  It's  clear  there's  nothing  wrong  with  him.  He's  healthy,  and  you're  re-  lieved.  He's  pretty  much  like  all  the  others.  Not  quite  as  noisy,  maybe  not  quite  as  tough,  but  that  might  be  a  good  sign,  too.  Then  things  somehow  get  off  the  track.  He's  coming  in  with  a  bloodied  nose  once  a  week,  and  you  know  damned  well  that  nothing  hap-  pened  to  the  kid  that  did  it.  He's  in-  side  listening  to  records  when  he  ought  to  be  outside  playing  with  the  others.  His  face  starts  looking  unlike  yours  and  hers.  You  come  home  from  a  hard  day's  work  and  find  him  sitting  ina  high-backed  chair  cutting  shapes  out  of  colored  paper  and  spreading  them  out  on  the  rug.  You  wonder  for  a  moment  if  this  pale  kid  can  be  fourteen  years  old;  can  he  be  half  your  responsibil-  itv,  half  your  fault?  Of  course,  there  are  times  when  everything  seems  well  enough.  He  takes  out  girls.  He  learns  to  drive.  His  tenor  comes  and  goes,  then  comes  to  stay.  One  day  you  see  he's  nicked  himself  while  shaving,  and  all  the  time  you  feel  you  should  be  grooming  an  heir  he  grows  paler,  tall-er,  and  more  peculiar.  He  locks  doors  behind  himself  and  startles  you  in  the  dark  hallways  of  your  own  house.  You're  afraid  of  his  next  phase-afraid  how  the  finished  product  will  compare  with  the  block's  other  boys,  with  his  own  brother  who  plays  on  the  Junior  Varsity  and  mows  other  people's  lawns  for  money.  At  the  P.-T.A.  open  house  a  teacher  pulls  you  aside  and  tells  you,  all  ex-  cited,  &quot;David  can  do  anything  he  likes  in  the  world.  How  few  of  us  can  do  absolutely  anything  we  like.  He's  among  the  chosen  few,  and  I  thought  you  both  should  know.&quot;  His  mother  beams  all  evening,  but  afterwards  you  find  him  in  the  kitchen,  at  the  table,  dripping  candle  wax  on  black  paper.  &quot;An  experiment,&quot;  he  mumbles  as  you  walk  into  the  room  toward  the  re-  frigerator.  You  feel  clumsy  and  you  try  with  your  expression  to  apologize  for  having  barged  in  like  this  through  the  swinging  door.  But,  after  all,  you  tell  yourself,  it  is  your  kitchen  and  your  table,  that  is  your  son.  The  &quot;anything&quot;  his  sad  teacher  promised  gives  you  more  distress  than  comfort.  He  drops  calling  you  just  Dad  and  changes  you  to  Father.  One  night  you  turn  on  the  television  and  hear  him  say,  &quot;Television  is  for  fools,&quot;  and  dash  out  of  the  room,  offended  by  yourneed  to  see  the  news.  You  expect  more  from  him  as  he  gets  older,  but  the  distance  grows.  He  reminds  you  of  a  thin,  pe-  culiar  fellow  you  knew  slightly  in  the  Army,  a  bookworm  nobody  spoke  to.  Till  last  New  Year's  Eve,  I  felt  I'd  had  a  pretty  good  track  record  as  a  father.  I  mean,  I  knew  I'd  made  some  mistakes,  but  somehow,  over  the  years,  you  forget  specifically  what  they've  been.  David  had  come  South  for  Christ-  mas  for  the  first  time  in  two  years.  [REDACTED]  and  I  got  home  from  the  party  at  the  Club.  We  were  slightly  drunk.  " b"David  was  sitting  up  read-  ing  when  we  got  in.  He  was  curled  up  on  the  liv-  ing-room  couch  in  a  floor-  length  maroon  bathrobe  he'd  worn  most  of  his  visit.  He  was  reading  something  he'd  brought  down  from  New  York.  He  laughs  at  our  books  and  magazines,  picks  up  [REDACTED]'s  novels  and  giggles  at  them  and  puts  them  down  again.  Charlie  Fentress  had  an-  nounced  his  daughter's  engagement  at  the  New  Year's  Eve  party.  The  band  played  a  few  bars  of  the  Wedding  March.  Brad-  ley  and  Elaine  weren't  en-  gaged  yet,  and  Brad  had  decided  to  spend  Christmas  with  his  college  roommate  on  St.  Thomas.  OnlyDa-  vid  was  home.  Edward  and  Mildred  Fox  took  [REDACTED]  and  me  aside  at  the  party  to  say  theyjust  wanted  to  let  us  know  they  were  going  to  be  grandparents.  They  were  hugging  each  other  and  they  both  had  tears  in  theireyes.  The  band  played  &quot;Auld  Lang  Syne.&quot;  It  seemed  everyone  was  being  honored  and  re-  warded  by  their  children  but  us.  David  had  laughed  at  our  suggestion  that  he  come  to  the  party  and  see  his  old  friends.  &quot;What  would  I  talk  to  them  about?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;The  pill,  kinder-  garten  car  pools?&quot;  His  quickness  with  words  has  made  him  all  the  more  up-  setting.  But  we  got  home  and  there  was  our  son  on  the  couch.  There  he  was.  His  hair  cut  in  a  shaggy  expensive  way,  and  wearing  a  silk  bathrobe.  He  looked  over  his  shoulder  at  us  as  we  stood  in  the  foyer  taking  off  our  coats  and  rubbers  with  a  little  drunken  diffi-  culty.  &quot;How  was  the  prom,  kids?&quot;  he  asked  and  turned  back  to  his  book.  I  walked  into  the  living  room.  On  the  coffee  table  before  the  couch  I  saw  a  bottle  of  cognac  I'd  paid  twenty  bucks  for,  three  years  earlier.  A  snifter  was  beside  it  and  a  lot  of  wet  rings,  some  of  the  cognac  spilled  on  the  tabletop.  &quot;Who  told  you  you  could  open  that  bottle?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;Father,  it's  New  Year's  Eve.  Let  up  a  little.&quot;  The  back  of  his  head  was  still  toward  me.  &quot;Look  what  you've  done  to  that  ta-  ble.  Your  mother  breaks  her  back keeping  this  place  decent  and  you  act  like  you're  at  the  God-damned  Holiday  Inn.&quot;  It's  easy  enough  now  to  say  I  shouldn't  have  cuffed  him.  But  I  felt  like  doing  it,  and  I  was  just  drunk  enough  to  do  what  I  felt  like  doing.  He  hadn't  even  bothered  to  turn  around  while  I  was  talking.  I  took  a  back-  swing  while  he  was  reading.  [REDACTED]  said,  &quot;Richard!&quot;  in  a  warning  tone  of  voice,  but,  like  me,  she  really  didn't  think  I'd  do  it.  I  smacked  him  with  my  best  golfer's  swing  right  across  his  fash-  ionable  haircut,  and  knocked  him  off  the  couch  onto  the  floor.  It  scared  me  as  much  as  it  seemed  to  scare  him.  For  a  minute  he  lay  blinking  up  at  me,  mouth  open,  on  the  carpet.  We  were  like  that  for  a  second.  His  mouth  open,  mine  open,  and  [REDACTED]  with  both  hands  pressed  over  hers,  Then  she  was  all  over  me,  trying  to  hold  my  arms  like  I  was  going  to  kill  him.  He  got  up,  straightened  his  robe,  and  marched  up-  stairs.  The  whole  thing  was  so  sloppy  it  made  me  sick.  Even  with  all  Pd  drunk  I  couldn't  sleep.  The  next  morning  there  was  to  be  a  New  Year's  Day  church  service  at  Trinity  Episcopal.  [REDACTED]  had  asked  David  to  come  with  us,  but  we  didn't  think  he'd  get  up,  since  it  was  before  his  usual  rising  time,  which  was  any  where  from  noon  till  three.  [REDACTED]  and  I  were  eating  breakfast.  We  were  dressed  for  church,  eating  without  talking,  trying  not  to  think  about  the  night  before,  but  thinking  about  it  anyway.  We  were  both  staring  down  at  our  eggs  and  coffee  when  David  came  downstairs,  all  dressed  for  church.  His  head  was  bound  up  in  a  professional-  looking  gauze-and-tape  bandage  that  covered  most  of  his  hair  and  forehead.  The  tanned  ears  stuck  up  over  the  white  cap.  He  looked  like  someone  re-  covering  from  brain  surgery.  [REDACTED]  was  drinking  her  coffee  as  he  came  in.  In  the  middle  of  swallowing,  she  went  into  a  genteel  coughing  fit.  David  poured  himself  a  cup.  As  he  was  add-  " b"ing  cream  and  sugar,  he  said  cheer-  fully,  &quot;Father,  when  peopleat  church  ask  what  happened  to  me-and  incvita-  bly  they  will  ask-I  intend  to  tell  them  exactly  who's  responsible  for  this.&quot;  I  sat  staring  down  the  table  at  him.  We  were  squared  off,  me  at  my  usual  place,  he  at  his.  I  started  chewing  on  my  back  molars  in  a  way  I  hadn't  done  since  the  War.  He  went  on  drinking  his  coffee.  Once  in  a  while,  he'd  glance  up  at  me  over  his  cup.  He  seemed  pleased  with  himself,  [REDACTED]  was  staring  at  him  with  her  mouth  half  open.  She  would  look  from  him  to  me,  her  face  all  strained,  as  if  she  wanted  me  to  ex-  plain  him  to  her.  So  this  is  it,  I  thought.  That  one  over  there  with  the  bandages,  that's  my  elder  son  and  heir.  I  had  to  decide  then  whether  I  would  really  break  his  head  or  if  I'd  let  things  go.  At  some  point,  you  have  to  decide  with  children  whether  you're  going  to  kill  them  or  let  them  go.  I  thought  of  those  foreign-exchange  students  we  sometimes  had  to  dinner  when  they  passed  through  our  town.  Odd-looking  kids  with  funny-shaped  glasses,  sometimes  bad  teeth,  and  ac-  cents  halfthe  time  [REDACTED]  and  I  couldn't  understand.  But  we  always  H     inure     pretended  we  did.  You  could  tell  when  they  had  asked  a  question,  and  even  though  you  hadn't  really  caught  it,  you  still  nodded  and  said  &quot;Yes.&quot;  And  when  it  turned  out  that  the  question  couldn't  be  answered  with  a  simple  &quot;yes&quot;  and  they  stared  strangely  at  us,  at  least  we'd  shown  that  we  had  wanted  to  agree.  In  the  long  run,  that  was  all  [REDACTED]  and  myself  could  do  for  Inter-  national  Good  Will.  So  at  this  breakfast  I  decided  to  give  David  the  benefit  of  the  doubt.  I  told  myself  I'd  treat  him  at  least  as  well  as  we  treat  these  foreign  students  who  come  to  dinner  for  just  one  night.  You  didn't  even  expect  thank-you  notes  from  them.  These  kids'  customs  were  so  different  from  our  own,  their  homes  so  far  from  us  here.  But  we  were  al-  ways  kind  to  them,  thinking  of  Ameri-  can  kids  who'd  be  in  their  country  someday,.  So  I  told  myself  there  at  table,  if  not  as  a  father  then  at  least  as  a  host  and  an  American  I  should  treat  David  at  least  as  well  as  one  of  them.  After  all,  a  foreigner  is  mostly  what  he's  been  to  us.  [REDACTED]  didn't  want  him  to  go  looking  like  that,  but  you  have  to  take  your  own  kid  to  church.  Besides,  if  we  hadn't taken  him  he'd  have  called  a  cab  and  how  would  that  have  looked?  I'm  sure  he  told  whoever  asked  about  his  head  whatever  it  was  he'd  decided  to  tell.  He  left  for  New  York  that  very  afternoon,  still  wrapped  up  like  some-  body  with  amnesia.  Except  for  Brad-  ley's  wedding,  we  haven't  seen  him  since.  I  suspect  that  he's  in  secret  cor-  respondence  with  his  mother,  and  that's  fine  and  natural,  I  suppose.  Some  days  she's  more  tearful  than  others.  In  the  middle  of  a  meal,  she'll  fold  her  nap-  kin,  place  it  on  the  table,  and  leave  the  room.  Someday  he'll  probably  publish  a  story  or  a  whole  book  about  what  a  tyrant  I've  been.  I  can  imagine  a  chap-  ter  listing  all  the  times  I  ever  raised  my  voice  or  hit  him.  Of  course,  people  al-  ways  believe  what's  down  in  black  and  white  before  they'll  listen  to  just  one  man's  word  about  what  happened.  I  have  made  some  mistakes,  I  know.  But  I  won't  accept  his  verdict  of  me.  I'm  not  a  villain.  If  anything,  I've  wanted  too  much  for  him,  and,  considering  all  the  ways  you  can  go  wrong  with  a  son,  it  seems  the  one  he  would  be  quickest  to  forgive.  IIl~ADDENDUM  N  this  drawing  I  am  doing,a  tall  red  man  holds  the  hand  of  a  small  white  boy.  The  man  wears  a  decora-  tive  uniform:  policeman,  soldier,  milk-  man.  He  is  much  taller  than  the  child,  but  his  right  arm  has  been  convenient  ly  elongated,  elasticized  like  a  sling  or  bandage,  so  it  easily  supports  the  boy's  white  hand.  My  art  teacher  called  me  out  into  the  hallway  on  the  last  dav  of  school  and  whispered,  &quot;You  mustn't  tell  the  other  children,  butyou're  the  best  drawer  I  have  ever  taught  in  cightcen  years.  The  most  imaginative.  Of  your  age  group,  I  mean.&quot;  Now,  deciding  to  placethe  man  and  boy  before  a  doorway  just  like  that  one  there,  with  a  similar  selection  of  Mother's  house-  plants  sprouting  all  around  them,  I  re-  call  Miss  Whipple's  compliment.  I  feel  fully  capable  of  adding  exactly  what  I  intend.  When  I'm  done,  people  will  say,  &quot;Look.  He's  drawn  a  man,  a  boy,  a  doorway,  and  some  plants  in  pots.&quot;  There  is  a  comfort  in  knowing  you  can  make  things  recognizable.  I  have  lots  of  room  on  this  table  we  inherited  from  my  quiet  grandmother,  who  died  last  winter  in  her  sleep.  It  was  built  to  seat  afamily  of  ten,  plus  guests.  I  am  alone  here  at  my  usual  end.  Mother,  Daddy,  Bradley,  and  I  all  have  a  whole  side  to  ourselves  and  must  speak  up  to  be  heard  by  evervon\xc2\xab  Venetian  blinds  cross  the  dining-roon  " b"window,  and  sunshine  throws  a  lad-  dered  shadow  straight  across  the  wal-  nut  surface  of  the  table.  The  round-  ended  bars  of  light  rest  there  in  a  row,  like  giant  versions  of  my  own  cray  ons.  My  brother  and  his  friends  are  play-  ing  baseball  in  the  front  yard.  They  chant  their  jeers  to  various  Episcopalian  cadences.  A  few  minutes  back,  a  foul  ball  rattled  off  the  roof.  The  grand-  father  clock  in  the  foyer  musically  com-  memorates  each  and  every  fifteen  min-  utes,  however  uneventful,  and  my  cray-  on  seems  responsible  for  every  drowsy  sound.  The  surface  of  the  table  gives  a  sud-  den  jerk,  and  the  crayoned  frond  of  the  potted  palm  I'm  drawing  takes  an  unexpected  twist.  I  look  up  and  watch  my  handsome  father  seat  himself  at  the  far  end  of  the  table  and  spread  his  mail  like  a  game  of  solitaire.  Crosshatched  with  sunlight,  his  white  shirt  is  daz-  zling  and  reflected  in  the  tabletop.  From  his  favorite  coffee  cup,  steam  climbs.  It  twists  and  plaits  itself  up  through  the  alternating  stripes  of  sun  and  slatted  shadow.  He  holds  an  en-  velope  up  to  the  light  and  rips  into  it  with  one  finger.  With  that  same  hand,  he  slapped  me  two  days  ago.  It  burned  across  my  face  and  swivelled  my  whole  head  in  thatdirection.  I  go  back  to  my  control  of  crayons.  Maybe  he'll  take  his  bills  into  the  study  and  leave  me  here  to  privately  excel  at  drawing.  His  voice  startles  me.  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  outside  and  play  with  the  oth-ers?  It  would  do  you  some  good.&quot;  I  continue  drawing.  Indoor  clouds  rain  blue  and  purple  pellets  on  the  house-  plants.  &quot;Did  you  hear  me  down  there?&quot;  &quot;Yes  sir.&quot;  &quot;What  don't  you  like  about  baseball?  Are  you  afraid  you'll  get  hurt  or  what?&quot;  I  know  I  must  say  something.  &quot;I  like  drawing.&quot;  A  pause.  Still  watching  me,  he  drinks  from  his  coffee  cup.  &quot;But  it's  summer,  David.  It's  a  beautiful  summer  morn-  ing  and  you're  seven  years  old  and  when  ...&quot;  &quot;Eight,&quot;  I  say,  not  looking  up.  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;Eight  years  old.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  then,  eight,  all  the  more  reason.  If  you've  got  to  draw  on  a  day  like  this,  what's  in  here  that  you  can't  draw  just  as  well  outside?&quot;All  the  floating  clumps  of  leaves  have  sprouted  pots.  &quot;I  asked  you  a  question.  What  do  you  find  to  draw,  sitting  in  here  like  this?&quot;  A  challenge.  He  thinks  I  don't  even  know.  Most  Imaginative  of  my  Age,  and  he  thinks  I  don't  even  know  what  I'm  drawing.Tell  him  an  airplane,  tell  him  an  airplane.  &quot;You,&quot;  I  say,  despite  myself.  &quot;Drawing  [REDACTED];  Why  did  I  tell?  Now  he'll  want  to  see  it.  Casually,  he  glances  again  through  his  mail.  &quot;So,  you're  drawing  your  dad,  huh?  Well,  let's  have  a  look.&quot;  I  note  that  he's  forgotten  all  about  the  base-  ball  game.  After  slapping  me  two  times  in  one  week,  he's  crazy  if  he  thinks  I'll  spend  all  morning  drawing  him  and  then  get  up  and  walk  to  the  far  end  of  the  table  and  deliver  it.  He  only  notices  my  drawing  when  he  wants  to  show   that  it's  a  waste  of  time.  I  won't  let  him  see  this.  Absolutely  not.  Unless  it's  that  or  getting  slapped  again.  &quot;It's  really  not  any  good,&quot;  I  assure  him.  &quot;Let  me  see  it.&quot;  &quot;You  won't  think  it's  any  good.  You'll  get  mad  cause  it's  not  the  way  you  really  look.&quot;  &quot;Bring  it  here.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  drew  in  the  door  and  plants  behind  you,  and  I  think  you  real-  ly  have  to  see  it  from  down  here  at  this  end,  because  this  is  where  I  drew  it  from.&quot;  &quot;I  can  turn  around  and  see  those,&quot;  he  says,  peeved  at  conceding  this.  &quot;Bring  it  here,  David.&quot;  I  concentrate  on  the  black  cray  on  in  my  damp  right  fist.  I  study  the  picture  itself.  &quot;Daddy,&quot;  I  begin  definitively,  &quot;I  just  don't  feel  like  you  would  ...I  don't  want  you  tosee  it  .  ..  yet.  I'll  show  you  later,  in  a  minute,  later  on.&quot;  &quot;This  is  getting  ridiculous,  young  man.  I'm  asking  you  to  bring  that  down  here  to  me.  Are  you  going  to  bring  it  or  aren't  you?  It's  that  sim-  ple.&quot;  I  have  included  him  here,  but  that  makes  the  drawing  even  more  mine,  less  his.  It's  the  one  thing  in  this  house  of  his  that's  really  mine  right  now.  The  man's  mouth  is  a  single  horizontal  line,  The  boy's  a  silly  U  shape.  &quot;It's  mine,&quot;  I  say  quietly.  &quot;You  said  it  was  a  picture  of  me.&quot;  &quot;It  is,  but  I'm  the  one  that  did  it  " b"and  it's  mine.  Please,  Daddy,  don't  make  me  this  time.&quot;  A  long  silence  from  the  far  end  of  the  table.  &quot;I'm  waiting,  David.  Bring  that  down  here  right  this  second.&quot;  Almost  before  I  think  of  it,  the  cray-  on  is  scribbling.  In  tight  black  loops  it  traps  and  then  eclipses  half  the  page.  I  choose  one  figure.  The  face  and  hands  are  lost  forever  underneath  an  oily  whorl.  There  is  the  chanting  from  the  front  yard,  the  scratchy  circlingof  my  crayon,  less  loud  as  the  black  wax  accumulates.  My  exertion  delicately  clinks  his  coffee  cup  against  its  saucer.  As  I  scrawl,  feeling  sick  and  clated  at  this  solutionI've  found,  I  grind  my  teeth  and  stare  straight  at  my  enormous  father,  smaller  than  usual  at  the  far  end  of  the  table.  He  seems  to  be  sitting  for  a  portrait  as  I  furiously  describea  neat  black  cyclone  on  the  page.  His  jaw  is  set.  I  can  hear  his  breathing.  I  know  the  signs.  Any  second  he  will  lunge  down  here,  grab  me  by  the  shirt,  lift  and  shake  me,  slap  me  once  with  that  hand  the  full  size  of  my  head,  and  shove  me,  stumbling,  toward  my  room,  shricking  in  my  own  defense.  Now,  just  as  he  places  both  hands  on  the  ta-  ble  to  come  for  me,  I  stand.  I  lift  the  drawing  by  its  upper  corners  and  carry  it  as  if  it  were  wet.  I  move  toward  his  chair,  the  only  chair  with  arms.  He  is  waiting  there  to  punish  me  for  drawing  during  summer,  for  drawing  anything  but  him  all  day,  for  undrawing  myself  without  permis-  sion.  I  stare  between  his  eyes  at  the  faint  inch  making  two  eyebrows  one  grim  horizontal  line.  I  warily  approach  him  in  my  aco-  lyte's  gait.  I  hold  up  the  drawing,  a  white  flag,  between  his  body  and  mine.  I  am  now  beside  his  chair.  Seated,  he  is  just  as  tall  as  I  am  standing.  On  his  forehead  there  are  rows  of  pores,  and  over  that  the  teeth  marks  where  the  comb  passed  through  his  hair.  His  back  is  pressed  straight  against  the  chair,  hands  still  tense  on  the  table's  edge.  Over  his  business  mail  I  place  my  art  work.  One  flimsy  piece  of  white  pa-  per  with  some  colored  markings  on  it.  His  eyes  move  from  my  face  down  to  my  drawing.  He  sees  the  figure  there.  I  hear  him  quietly  exhale.  His  solid  hands  reach  out  and  pick  the  paper  up.  I  am  very  conscious  of  the  hands.  There  I  am,  that's  me,  I  feel  him  thinking.  He  has  recognized  himself.  I  release  my  breath  and  gratefully  inhale  some  of  Miss  Whipple's  wonder  at  my  own  imagination.  Good  for  something,  it  has  just  spared  me  a  whipping.  I've  sketched  an  image  of  him  for  himself,  while  I  am  permanently  off  the  page,  and  saved.  He  is  not  asking  why  the  uniformed  gentleman's  longer  arm  is  weighed  with  this  bristling  black  can-  cellation.  He  is  now  responding  to  the  casy  magic  of  a  drawing  of  a  uniform  on  a  tall  figure,  the  horizontal  mouth,  the  buttons  and  braid.  &quot;So,  there  I  am.  Now,&quot;  he  says,  relaxing.  &quot;Why'd  you  do  this  crossing  out?  What  was  that  under  there?&quot;  I  have  lost  interest  in  the  drawing.  I  stare  out  the  window  at  the  summer  lawn  where  my  brother  and  six  neigh-  bor  kids  are  climbing  a  young  ever-  green,  tilting  it  almost  to  the  ground.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;So,  there  I  am.  Those  are  sure  some  ears  you  gave  me,  W  hat  are  these  round  things  here  on  front?  Are  those  medals?  Medals  for  what?&quot;  He  hesi-  tates  to  risk  a  guess.  I  look  back  from  the  venetian  blinds  and  stare  at  him.  He  sits  studying  the  drawing,  his  face  rosy,  jovial  now.  More  than  anything,  I  want  suddenly  to  hug  him,  to  move  forward  a  foot  or  so  and  throw  my  arms  around  his  neck.  I  want  to  cry  and  have  him  hold  me.  To  lift  me  off  the  floor  and  up  into  the  air  and  hold  me.  Instead,  there  seems  to  be  a  layer  of  electricity  around  him.  I  know  I  will  be  shocked  for  touching  him  with  no  reason.  Somewhere  in  the  house  an  alarm  will  sound,  the  grandfather  clock  will  gong  all  out  of  sequence,  the  door  chimes  will  go  wild,  sirens  will  howl  out  of  the  heating  ducts,  and  foul  balls  will  crash  through  every  window  in  the  place.  I  look  at  him  and,  in  answer  to  his  question,  shrug.  He  holds  the  drawing  out  for  me  to  take.  He's  done  with  it.  Slipping  past  his  chair,  I  saunter  to  the  back  door  and,  on  my  way  outside,  turn  around  and  see  him  seated  in  stripes  of  light  at  the  vacant  family  table.  Sadly,  he  holds  my  own  drawing  out  to  me  as  if  offering  a  gift  or  an  apology  or  some  art  work  of  his  own.  Something  changes  in  me,  see-  ing  him  like  this,  but  as  I  pass  into  the  sunlight  I  fight  to  keep  my  voice  quite  cool  and  formal  and  call  back,  &quot;I'm  finished,  Daddy.  You  may  keep  it  now.  It's  yours.&quot; "