 b"SOMETHING  has  happened  to  telephone  booths  in  New  York.  No  one  knows  when  it  happened,  and  no  one  knows  what  it  is  that  hap-pened,  but  something  has  happened.  Telephone  booths  in  New  York  are  dif-  ferent.  They  have  changed,  There  are  people  who  say  it  has  to  do  with  what  they  look  like,  and  there  are  people  who  say  that  it  has  to  do  with  whether  they  are  out  of  order,  and  there  are  people  who  say  that  all  that  is  beside  the  point.  What  matters,  they  say,  is  that  some-  thing  has  happened  to  telephone  booths  in  New  York.  There  is  a  telephone  booth  on  the  corner  of  68th  Street  and  [REDACTED].  There  was  a  time  when  this  telephone  booth  sat  silent  all  day  long.  An  occa-sional  drunk  fell  asleep  in  it.  An  occa-sional  secretary  in  sugdeboots  went  in-side  to  call  her  mother  in  Roslyn.  But  mostly  it  just  sat  there.  Now  it  rings  all  day  long.  The  telephone  booth  on  the  corner  of  68th  Street  and  Broad-  way  starts  ringing  at  9:30  a.m.  and  rings  until  6  :30  p.m.  Then  it  stops.  No  one  knows  why.  Th  ere  is,  as  there  always  was  and  always  will  be,  a  large  group  of  people  who  pass  this  telephone  booth  every  day,  but  no  one  ever  answered  the  phone  unt  il  one  day  last  week,  when  a  man  in  a  brown  checked  jacket  passed  by  and  heard  the  phone  ringing  .  He  de-  cided  to  answer  it.  He  went  in  to  the  tele-  phone  booth  and  pi  cked  up  the  phone.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Two  orders  of  clams  casino,  and  make  its  nappy,&quot;  said  a  voice  at  the  other  end  of  the  phone.  The  man  in  the  brown  checked  jacket  gently  hung  up  the  receiver.  It  was  a  cold  day  and  he  wrapped  his  muffler  under  his  chin.  Then  he  stepped  out  of  the  phone  booth  and  wen  t  on  his  way.  A  woman  who  spends  a  lot  of  time  on  E  ast  51st  Street  noticed  a  small  hole  in  the  front  of  a  brownstone  on  the  north  side  of  the  street.  The  hole  was  at  sidewalk  level,  and  it  was  about  three  inches  square.  She  assumed  that  some  little  animals  lived  inside,  and  last  Monday  she  left  them  a  piece  of  Port  du  Salut  cheese,  a  spoonful  of  chicken  salad,  two  oatmeal  cookies,  and  a  slice  of  meat  loaf.  On  Tuesday,  the  food  was  gone,  the  hole  had  been  boarded  up,  and  a  note  had  been  posted  on  the  front  door  of  the  building.  It  read  &quot;Telephone  man-I  will  be  back  in  half  an  hour.&quot;  This  is  a  story  about  voices.  The  other  day,  voices  were  heard  on  West  22nd  Street.  There  was  a  man's  voice  and  a  woman's  voice,  and  they  were  sh  outing  at  each  other,  as  voices  some-  times  do.  &quot;I  don't  care  if  you  have  ten  thou-sand  dollars  in  pennies,&quot;  the  male  voice  said.  &quot;What  good  is  it  doing  me?&quot;  &quot;If  you  feel  that  way,&quot;  said  the  fe-  male  voice,  &quot;don't  buy  any  more  white-fish  at  the  Daitch.&quot;  Several  people  on  West  22nd  Street  heard  the  voices,  which  went  on  at  some  length  in  the  same  vein,  but  no  one  could  tell  where  they  w  ere  coming  from.  From  time  to  time,  a  cock  crowed.  After  a  while  ,  the  voices  st  opped.  Every  morning  at  8:55,  three  wom-en  get  onto  the  Second  Av  enue  bus  at  84th  Street.  They  do  not  know  each  other,  but  they  have  been  taking  the  same  bus  at  the  same  time  for  many  years  now,  and  they  have  begun  to  nod  hello.  W  hen  the  bus  gets  to  50th  Street,  two  of  the  women  get  off  and  transfer  to  the  crosstown  bus.  One  of  them  is  a  young  woman  who  always  carries  a  birdc  age  and  always  smiles.  The  other  is  an  older  woman  in  a  fur  coat.  Yesterday,  the  older  woman  was  watching  the  y  oung  wo  man  read  her  morning  Times  on  the  crosstown  bus,  and  she  noticed  the  young  woman  beginning  to  cry.  At  first  the  tears  fell  quietly  down  the  young  woman's  face,  but  then  she  grew  more  agitated  and  began  to  wail  to  no  one  in  par- ticular.  &quot;Nobody  in  this  column  ever  has  a  name!&quot;  she  cried,  waving  her  Times  in  the  air  .  &quot;None  of  the  stories  in  this  column  ever  has  a  point!&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;What  happened  to  the  third  woman  on  the  Second  Avenue  bus?  Why  include  her  at  all?  And  what  is  the  significance  of  the  bird-  cage?&quot;  The  older  woman  to  ok  a  Kleenex  out  of  her  purse  and  gave  it  to  the  young  woman.  The  young  woman  wiped  her  eyes,  regained  her  com-  posure,  and  turned  to  the  sports  pages.  Soon  she  was  smiling  again. "