 b"I  WAS  seventeen  when  my  father  published  his  first  editorial  attacking  the  general  who  ruled  our  coun-  try-a  man  who  had  been  one  of  his  closest  friends.  The  editorial  appeared  in  October,  near  the  end  of  my  junior  year  of  high  school.  Later  the  same  week,  Mother  Andrea,  the  principal  of  the  convent,  told  me  that  my  father  did  not  have  to  attend  the  school's  commencement  exercises.  &quot;Sefior  Mal-  donado  must  be  bored  with  these  cere-  monies,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Please  tell  him,  [REDACTED],  that  this  time  we  are  excusing  him.&quot;  For  the  first  graduation  I  could  remember  my  father  would  not  be  sit-  ting  on  the  dais  with  Bishop  Vargas  and  the  other  dignitaries.  When  I  got  home  that  day,  I  told  my  father  what  Mother  Andrea  had  said.  He  was  amused.  &quot;So  Bishop  Var-  gas  is  already  coaching  the  good  nuns,  eh?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  God,  what  will  happen  to  us?&quot;  my  mother  said,  with  a  terror  that  at  the  time  did  not  seem  warranted.  Then  a  few  nights  later  she  said  to  Papa,  &quot;Did  you  really  believe,  Miguel,  that  your  friend  the  General  was  dif-  ferent  from  other  politicians?&quot;  &quot;I  believed  in  him,  yes,  and  made  others  believe  in  him,&quot;  Papa  said.  &quot;Now  that  the  man  has  turned  into  a  tyrant  I  cannot  remain  silent.&quot;  &quot;Always  your  beliefs,  your  beliefs,&quot;  Mama  said.  &quot;And  this  time  at  your  family's  expense!&quot;  Discussions  like  this  soon  took  place  in  the  presence  of  my  brother  and  me  almost  every  night.  As  my  father's  attacks  on  the  Gen-  eral  increased,  my  schoolmates  began  to  avoid  me.  With  the  nuns  the  change  was  also  gradual.  At  first  they  contin-  ued  to  laugh  and  joke  with  me,  but  checked  to  be  sure  that  no  one  closeto  the  government  was  watching.  Then  they  started  ignoring  my  questions  in  class.  &quot;I'm  glad  you  asked,  Martica&quot;  and  &quot;Maybe  your  father  will  come  give  usa  talk  on  the  subject&quot;  gave  way  to  &quot;Can't  you  see  you're  interrupting,  [REDACTED]?&quot;  Finally,  like  my  friends,  the  nuns  avoided  me  entirely.  The  convent-an  old  castle,  built  by  a  Spanish  viceroy  of  the  sixteenth  cen-  tury  for  his  mulatto  mistress-was  my  second  home.  As  a  young  girl  I  had  run  through  its  long,  narrow  corridors,  searching  for  secret  passages  and  imag-  ining  I  saw  the  ghosts  of  the  conquista-  dors.  Now,  as  I  walked  the  corridors  of  the  convent,  the  nuns  scattered  from  my  path  like  crows  taking  flight.  Had  they  made  me  their  favorite  because  I  was  the  daughter  of  the  General's  friend,  I  wondered.  Had  the  nuns  truly  admired  my  father  and  his  editorials,  or  had  their  compliments  been  inspired  by  his  influence  with  the  government?  I  would  ask  my  brother,  Ricardo,  who  was  fourteen,  &quot;At  your  school  are  the  teachers  and  boys  still  speaking  to  you?&quot;  and  he  would  shrug  his  shoul-  ders.  The  last  week  in  November,  at     the  very  end  of  the  school  year,  Ri-  cardo  announced  with  an  air  of  indif-  ference  that  he  was  not  going  to  carry  the  school  standard  in  the  commence-  ment-day  parade.  &quot;Brother  Juan  says  that  the  standard  is  too  heavy  for  mt.\xe2\x80\x9d  'That's  interesting,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;You  were  strong  enough  to  carry  it  last  year  and  the  year  before.  Perhaps  by  some  miracle  of  Heaven  the  stand-  ard  has  grown  heavier  during  the  past  months.&quot;  Ricardo  was  the  only  one  who  laughed  at  this  remark.  For  the  holidays,  we  drove,  as  we  did  every  year,  to  my  mother's  family's  country  house.  Father  did  not  come  along.  Seeing  the  streams  and  weeping  willows  along  the  road  and  the  peasants  in  their  colorful  ponchos  and  sombre-  ros-and  everything  so  exactly  the  way  it  always  was-I  began  to  hope  that  while  we  were  away  we  might  receive  word  that  my  father  and  the  General  had  settled  their  differences.  In  the  country,  we  learned  from  our  relatives  that  Papa  had  refused  a  position  in  a  European  embassy.  &quot;What  a  mistake!&quot;  my  uncles  said.  &quot;It  is  selfish  of  Miguel  to  deprive  his  children  of  the  cultural  advantages  of  Europe.&quot;  Even  worse  in  their  eves  was  Papa's  disloyalty  to  the  General,  his  friend.  In  the  past  my  uncles  had  congratulated  Mother  on  her  husband's  editorial  position,  saying  that  it  was  men  with  Papa's  integrity  our  country  needed.  For  the  first  time,  Ricardo  and  I  felt  ill  at  ease  around  our  cousins.  &quot;You're  such  a  tonto,  Ricardo!&quot;  they  would  savy.  Or  &quot;Come  on,  [REDACTED],  don't  you  have  anything  clever  to  add?&quot;  In  our  eagerness  to  please,  we  bored  them.  I  was  telling  our  cousins  a  joke  one  afternoon  when  one  of  my  aunts  passed  through  the  room  with  a  pitcher  of  lemonade  and  stopped  to  listen.  As  I  paused  before  the  punch  line,  she  said,  shaking  her  head,  \xe2\x80\x9cGoodness,  [REDACTED],  you're  looking  more  like  your  father  every  day!&quot;  Everyone  burst  out  laughing.  To  look  like  my  father  was  to  have  a  bulldog's  face.  Whereas  on  Papa,  with  his  prematurely  silver  hair  and  charming  " b"manners,  such  a  face  was  attractive,  it  could  only  be  lamentable  on  a  girl.  &quot;But  Ricardo,&quot;  my  aunt  said  as  she  walked  away,  &quot;Ricardo  is  like  our  family;  he  looks  like  his  mother.&quot;  Ricardo  and  I  began  spending  our  days  playing  dominoes  alone  on  the  veranda.  We  were  glad  when  Mama  cut  the  vacation  short.  BACK  in  the  city,  we  saw  police  patrols  and  jeeps  everywhere.  Papa  explained  that  there  was  now  a  midnight  curfew.  Then  he  said,  &quot;I  received  an  official  ultimatum.  I  was  toldthat  if  I  don't  agree  to  a  public  reconciliation  with  the  General,  my  paper  will  be  closed.  You  might  as  well  know  it.  The  paper  is  now  being  printed  on  a  small  private  press.  As  of  last  week,  it's  circulating  underground.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  we  have  returned  to  a  night-  mare,&quot;  Mama  said.  &quot;I  am  sorry.&quot;  Papa  said.  &quot;To  re-  main  silent  is  to  become  an  accomplice  to  the  crimes-the  abuses.  If  you  only  knew!  But  let's  not  talk  about  this.  I'm  glad  you're  back.&quot;  Later,  Ricardo  said  to  me,  &quot;[REDACTED],  how  can  Papa  be  so  selfish?  Can't  he  see  what  Mama  is  going  through?&quot;  One  thing  that  Papa  had  not  told  us  was  that  in  our  absence  he  and  a  few  of  his  friends  from  the  newspaper  had  begun  holding  nighttime  meetings  at  our  house.  We  learned  of  these  meet-  ings  from  our  maid.  &quot;Ay,  Sefiora,  I'm  so  frightened,&quot;  she  said  to  Mama  the  following  morning.  &quot;I  don't  know  how  much  longer  I'll  be  able  to  work  in  this  house.&quot;  She  told  Mama  that  the  neighbors  were  all  furious  with  Papa  because  they  felt  that  they  and  their  property  were  endangered;  anonymous  bomb  threats  had  been  made  against  Papa.  *  &quot;See,  [REDACTED],  see?&quot;  Ricardo  whis-  pered.  &quot;Everyone  is  against  Papa.&quot;  Ricardo  and  I  stayed  close  to  the  house  for  the  rest  of  our  vacation.  Aft-  er  the  maid  stopped  coming,  I  helped  Mama  with  the  housework,  but  my  friends  did  not  call  or  visit  and  I  had  much  free  time  in  which  to  think.  Was  it  possible,  I  asked  myself,  that  our  teachers  and  friends,  Mama's  family,  and  the  neighbors  could  all  be  wrong?  It  was  only  from  Papa  that  we  heard  anymention  of  crimes  and  abuses.  Where  were  these  things  hap-  pening,  and  to  whom?  Mama  had  begged  Papa  not  to  bring  his  under-  ground  paper  into  our  home.  In  the  remaining  daily  paper  there  were  pic-  tures  of  the  General  attending  banquets  and  church  functions,  and  pictures  of  beauty  queens  and  soccer  stars.  Noth-  ing  else.  \xc2\xa9Everyone  is  against  Papa  because  everyone  is  afraid  to  speak  the  truth,&quot;  I  said  to  Ricardo,  but  without  much  con-  viction.  &quot;Papa  likes  to  be  different  from  everyone  else,&quot;  Ricardo  said.  I  remembered  the  time  Papa  had  been  invited  to  lay  the  cornerstone  for  \xc2\xa9  o  N  CRX  OSs  1  A1  a  new  social  club  and  we  had  watched  while  the  speakers  competed  with  one  another  in  praising  the  project.  But,  in  a  short  speech,  my  father  had  said  that  a  new  club  was  not  only  unnecessary  but  an  affront  in  a  city  where  children  slept  in  the  streets  and  beggars  crowd-  ed  the  aisles  of  churches,  &quot;We  are  obsessed  with  monuments  and  social  clubs,&quot;  he  had  said.  &quot;Our  city  is  like  a  woman  who  throws  a  garish  dress  over  underwear  that  is  soiled  and  ragged.&quot;  &quot;We  must  ask  Papa  to  explain  what's  really  going  on,&quot;  I  finally  said  to  Ricardo.  We  never  asked.  It  was  as  if  we  were  afraid  that  his  answers  might  make  our  going  back  to  school  in  the  fall  more  difficult.  &quot;I'm  going  to  pre-  tend  I'm  sick,&quot;  Ricardo  said.  And  then,  &quot;But  if  I  don't  go  to  school  ev-  erybody  will  say  that  I  am  afraid  and  will  call  me  a  coward.&quot;  And  I  said-hoping  that  this  might  be  true-&quot;I  think  that  by  now  our  teachers  and  friends  have  realized  that  whatever  is  going  on  between  Papa  and  the  General  is  not  our  fault.&quot;  CHOOL  began  the  first  week  in  February.  The  day  beforeschool  opened,  Papa  said  to  me,  half  joking,  &quot;Let  me  know,  [REDACTED],  if  the  Gen-  eral's  picture  has  been  enshrined  in  the  chapel.&quot;  Mama  was  calm  as  she  served  Ricardo  and  me  our  breakfast  the  next  morning.  But,  when  we  were  leaving " b"the  house,  she  gave  us  each  a  desper-  ate,  long  embrace.  Ricardo  and  I  walked  close  to  one  another  on  our  way  to  school.  At  sev-  eral  of  the  houses,  the  women  stood  at  their  doors,  sending  their  children  off.  &quot;Buenos  dias,&quot;  I  shouted  to  them  as  in  the  past.  They  stared,  barely  moving  their  lips  to  answer.  At  the  end  of  the  block  I  burst  out,  &quot;But  why,  Ricardo,  why?  What  have  we  done?&quot;  Ricardo  said,  &quot;[REDACTED],  please!&quot;  At  school,  the  first  thing  I  noticed  was  a  huge  picture  ofthe  General  hanging  in  the  vestibule  next  to  the  portrait  of  St.  [REDACTED],  the  patroness  of  the  convent.  Then  I  noticed  the  fear  in  the  nuns'  faces  at  the  sight  of  me  and  the  speed  with  which  my  for-  mer  friends  ran  off  down  the  corridor.  I  might  have  been  Satan,  complete  with  horns  and  tail,  coming  into  the  convent  with  his  books  under  his  arm.  It  seems  strange,  as  I  look  back  now,  that  at  no  time  during  that  day  or  during  the  days  that  followed  did  I  consider  staying  home.  And  I  contin-  ued  to  believe  that  Papa's  falling-out  with  the  General  was  temporary.  There  was  no  comfort  in  the  fact  that  I  was  not  alone  in  being  ostra-  cized.  The  man  who  had  owned  our  country's  most  important  radio  station,  a  man  Papa  greatly  admired,  had  two  daughters  in  the  school.  Instinctively,  we  ignored  one  another.  Rather  than  submit  to  the  General's  censorship,  their  father  had  surrendered  his  station  to  the  government  and  was  now  broad-  casting  from  a  hidden  transmitter.  The  Julian  sisters  were  younger-Ricardo's  age-and  with  their  long  necks  and  delicate  features  they  had  the  fragile  appearance  of  lilies.  Always  inseparable,  the  sisters  stood  together  in  dark  al-  coves,  hid  behind  pillars,  and  disap-  peared  into  the  bathroom  during  recre-  ation  periods.  &quot;Come  on,  girls,&quot;  the  nuns  would  call  in  exasperation.  &quot;Come  here,  in  front!  What  do  you  think-  that  you're  invisible?&quot;  I  also  longed  to  make  myself  invisible.  The  daughters  of  high-ranking  mili-  tary  men  had  become  dictators  within  the  convent.  Even  the  nuns  feared  them.  There  were  three  in  my  class.  Early  in  the  term  one  of  them  said  to  me,  &quot;[REDACTED],  you  get  A's  on  your  com-  positions;  here,  write  mine,&quot;  and  short-  ly  thereafter  I  was  writing  composi-  tions  for  all  three.  Mother  Tekla  as-  signed  us  the  same  subject  week  after  week  with  small  variations-Our  General.  &quot;Write  a  brief  biography  de-  scribing  his  outstanding  qualities,&quot;  she  would  tell  us.  Or  &quot;In  two  pages  point  out  the  similarities  between  Our  Gen-  eral  and  Simon  Bolivar.&quot; &quot;Our  General,&quot;  I  would  write,  and  then  my  pen  would  stop.  &quot;Our  Gen-  eral  ...&quot;  I  sat  st  aring  at  the  b  lank  page  for  hours,  until  I  hit  upon  a  trick.  Copying  from  editorials  in  the  official  press,  I  was  able  to  fill  pages  by  chang-  ing  the  langua  ge  slightly.  &quot;Our  Ge  n-  eral  is  ahead  of  his  time,&quot;  one  editorial  said.  I  wrote,  &quot;Our  General  is  a  m  an  with  vision.&quot;  Ricard  o  jo  ined  in  the  game.  Imitating  the  handwriting  of  the  girl  whose  homework  I  was  doing,  he  wrote,  &quot;Our  General  is  infallible,  like  God!&quot;  We  giggled  and  then  laughed  as  we  imagined  the  reaction  of  the  nuns.  &quot;In  an  exemplary  gesture  of  democ-  racy  Our  General  invited  some  uni-  versity  students  to  participate  in  an  open  dialogue,&quot;  another  editorial  said.  Papa  had  told  us  the  truth  about  this  event.  &quot;It  was  the  usual,&quot;  he  had  said.  &quot;The  usual  dialogue  between  students  and  bayonets.&quot;  &quot;In  a  gesture  of  gen-  erosity,&quot;  I  wrote  for  one  of  the  three  girls,  &quot;Our  General  invited  the  uni-  versity  students  to  join  him  in  a  frank  conversation.  It's  too  bad  the  students  didn't  appreciate  this  privilege.  They  were  disrespectful  to  Our  General.  Five  students  are  dead,  several  lie  wounded  in  the  hospital.  It's  expected  that  other  students  will  learn  from  this  lesson.&quot;  After  that  the  requests  for  compositions  stopped.  My  submissive-  ness  to  the  three  dictators  continued,  " b"however.  I  laughed  at  their  jokes;  I  picked  up  their  books;  I  complimented  them  on  their  clothes.  And  yet  none  of  this  was  as  hateful  to  me  as  a  new  class  in  Contemporary  Events  which  the  nuns  had  added  to  the  daily  schedule.  After  lunch,  the  en-  tire  school  would  march  to  the  audi-  torium  to  listen  to  a  broadcast  from  the  government  radio  station.  The  audi-  ence  on  the  air  and  in  the  school  audi-  torium  was  informed  that  rebellion  was  cropping  up  here  and  there-acts  in-  cited  by  irresponsible  agitators.  We  would  hear-this  part  I  listenedto  with  terror-the  names  of  those  who  had  been  imprisoned  in  the  past  hours,  and  of  those  who  had  disobeyed  the  or-  ders  of  the  General  and  whom  the  mili-  tary  authorities  had  been  forced  to  shoot.  The  nuns  listened  in  silence,  shak-  ing  their  heads  at  the  mention  of  agita-  tors,  &quot;It  is  the  sacred  duty  of  our  coun-  try's  leader  to  repel  the  conspiracies  against  our  fatherland,&quot;  Mother  Pet-  ronila,  the  nun  in  charge  of  Contem-  porary  Events,  said  once,  but  she  was  only  repeating  what  Bishop  Vargas  had  said  at  Sunday  [REDACTED]  At  the  close  of  the  broadcast  we  would  sing  patriotic  hymns  like  &quot;Marchemos  a  la  Libertad&quot;  and  &quot;Justicia  Venceri.&quot;  &quot;Come  on,  loud!  I  want  to  hear  everyone!&quot;  Mother  Petronila  would  urge,  clapping     her  chubby  hands.  And  we  sang,  &quot;Libertaaaaaad  ...  Justiciaaaaa!&quot;  S  we  were  walking  home  together  one  afternoon,  Ricardo  said,  &quot;At  recess  today  the  boys  were  all  calling  me  'hijo  de  traidor?  &quot;&quot;Hijo  2\xc2\xb0  trai-  dor,&quot;  he  repeated.  To  cover  the  tremor  in  his  voice  he  tried  to  laugh.  &quot;Son  of  a  traitor&quot;  was  as  insulting  as  &quot;son  of  a  whore.&quot;  There  were  days  that  year  when  I  would  leave  the  convent  re-  hearsing  to  myself  what  I  planned  to  say  to  my  father:  &quot;Papa,  I  admire  your  courage;  I  believe  in  what  you're  do-  ing.  Papa,  I'm  proud  of  you.&quot;  But  then  I  would  see  Ricardo  waiting  for  me  at  the  corner  near  his  school  and  the  impulse  died.  We  were  hardly  speaking  to  Papa  by  June.  Weekends,  Ricardo  and  I  played  cards  with  Mama  in  the  glass-  enclosed  patio  that  adjoined  the  study  where  Papa  was  forever  typing.  Even  now  I  can  hear  the  silence  at  that  card  table,  and  in  the  background  the  loud  music  of  a  neighbor's  radio,  the  shouts  of  Ricardo's  friends  playing  soccer,  and  the  tireless  rat-tat-tat  of  the  typewriter.  I  see  my  father  in  the  shabby  gray  poncho  he  wore  around  the  house,  dragging  his  feet  like  an  old  man,  and  I  see  my  mother's  hands  as  she  dealt  the  cards.  I  see  my  brother  and  myself  as  we  slouched  at  the  table.  What's  happening  to  us,  I  would  wonder.  The  only  times  when  Ricardo  and  I  seemed  to  resemble  our  former  selves  were  the  nights  when  Papa's  friends  from  the  paper  came  to  our  house  for  their  meetings.  Mama  would  leave  coffee  and  pastries  on  a  small  table  in  a  corner  of  the  dining  room;  then  she  would  rush  to  her  bedroom  and,  with  the  lights  out,  watch  the  street  from  her  window.  From  where  we  sat  at  the  landing  of  the  stairs,  Ricardo  and  I  could  see  the  men  arriving  separately,  wearing  hats  and  bulky  overcoats,  and  whisper-  ing  as  they  removed  the  folders  and  papers  that  they  had  hidden  inside  their  coats.  There  was  one-a  dark  young  man,  with  curly  black  hair-whom  they  called  Alfonso.  I  could  not  take  my  eyes  off  him.  Some  nights  my  father  and  his  friends  spoke  rapidly,  slapping  each  other's  backs,  interrupting  one  another  as  they  went  into  the  dining  room.  &quot;[REDACTED],  I  think  it  will  happen  soon-maybe  tomorrow,  this  week,&quot;  Ricardo  would  whisper.  &quot;What,  Ricardo?&quot;  &quot;He'll  be  overthrown.  The  Gen-  eral.&quot;  We  would  go  to  our  rooms  believing  that  an  event  that  would  change  our  " b"lives  was  about  to  take  place.  One  night  I  dreamed  that  dressed  in  long  white  gowns  my  classmates  and  I  were  marching  into  the  auditorium  to  the  music  of  Mother  Petronila's  piano.  My  father  rose  from  his  chair  on  the  dais  and  came  toward  me,  my  diploma  in  his  hand.  In  September,  the  General  ordered  an  eight-o'clock  curfew,  and  my  fa-  ther's  friends  were  forced  to  remain  at  our  house  all  night.  They  made  a  som-  bre  group  in  the  morning  as  they  stood  by  our  door,  shrouded  in  cigarette  smoke,  waiting  in  silence  for  the  last  patrol  car  to  pass.  When  the  meetings  couldn't  be  held  with  safety  at  our  house,  they  still  took  place,  in  the  houses  of  one  or  another  of  my  father's  political  friends.  The  nights  that  he  was  away,  Mama  would  go  from  room  to  room  switching  the  lights  on  and  then  off,  muttering  her  prayers.  We  would  hear  police  whistles  and  shooting  in  the  distance  and  the  sound  of  jeeps  ap-  proaching  and  the  sirens  of  the  police  cars.  &quot;Do  you  hear,  [REDACTED],  Ricardo?&quot;  Mama  would  ask.  &quot;Do  you  hear  it?&quot;  Then  the  meetings  stopped  entirely.  My  father  and  his  friends  no  longer  dared  to  be  out  on  the  streets  at  night.  People  were  disappearing  on  their  way  home  from  work.  Others  were  dragged  from  their  beds.  A  few  had  been  shot  by  the  military  police  right  on  the  street.  Papa  typed  at  all  hours,  hardly  ever  leaving  the  house,.  &quot;He  is  afraid,  [REDACTED],&quot;  Ricardo  said.  &quot;Oh,  God,  what  will  happen  to  you-to  us?&quot;  Mama  kept  asking.  &quot;We'll  leave  immediately  after  [REDACTED]'s  graduation.  I'm  taking  steps,  making  provisions.  Leave  things  to  me;  don't  worry,&quot;  Papa  would  say.  We  had  only  one  visitor  now.  On  certain  afternoons  Sefior  Hernandez,  a  lawyer  and  close  friend  of  my  father,  would  bring  proofs  of  the  newspaper  to  the  house  and  pick  up  my  father's  typed  copy,  which  he  then  hid  in  the  lining  of  his  coat.  As  the  two  men  lingered  by  our  door,  they  would  gaze  at  the  floor  in  silence.  Looking  down  at  them  from  the  landing  one  day-  Hernandez  in  his  bulky  over-  coat,  my  father  in  his  gray  poncho-I  had  the  feeling  that  they  were  growing  smaller,  that  they  were  shrinking.  MONTH  before  grad-  uation,  Mother  Andrea  called  me  out  of  the  convent  dining  room.  At  the  words  &quot;[REDACTED],  please  come.  I'd  like  to  speak  to  you,&quot;  I  felt  panic.  With  the  same  words,  the  week  before,  she  had  sum-  moned  the  Julian  sisters  when  relatives  of  the  girls  brought  the  news  that  their  father  had  been  shot  down  by  the  military  police.  I  thought  first  of  Papa.  Had  the  police  forced  their  way  into  our  house?  Had  they  arrested  Papa?  Ricardo  was  at  home,  in  bed  with  a  stomach  upset.  Had  he  and  Mama  been  arrested,  too?  I  followed  Mother  Andrea  into  an  empty  classroom,  with  my  heart  beating  wildly.  She  walked  past  the  desks  and  went  up  to  stand  on  the  teacher's  plat-  form.  Behind  her,  on  the  blackboard,  was  a  note  asking  the  seniors  to  stay  after  class  to  discuss  the  graduation  cere-  mony.  I  wondered  why  Moth-  er  Tekla,  whose  handwriting  I  recognized,  had  bothered  to  list  all  of  the  names.  Then  I  understood.  Only  one  name  was  missing-mine.  I  looked  up  at  Mother  Andrea.  She  seemed  absorbed  in  reading  a  paper  that  she  held  in  one  hand,  while  her  other  hand  kept  touching  the  crucifix  that  hung  from  her  waist.  She  finally  spoke.  &quot;[REDACTED],  " b"this  is  a  graduation  certificate,  You'll  be  leaving  with  your  family  soon.  The  graduation  should  not  be  an  obstacle  to  your  departure.&quot;  She  looked  away  from  me  and  spoke  hurriedly.  &quot;We  think  about  your  mother  often,  and  pray  for  all  of  you-for  your  father  especially.  Fanaticism  is  a  form  of  madness  that  destroys  all  that  is  noble  in  man.  We  trust  we've  given  you  spiritual  re-  sources  sufficient  to  share  with  your  family  and  to  sustain  you  through  whatever  tribulations  may  lie  ahead.&quot;  Her  voice  went  on  and  on.  &quot;This,  [REDACTED]&quot;-she  was  showing  me  the  neatly  typed  page  with  my  name  at  the  top-'&quot;is  equivalent  to  your  diploma.  It's  as  if  you  were  graduating,  as  if  you  were  receiving  the  diploma  with  your  classmates,  but  your  physical  presence  is-how  should  I  say  it-&quot;  &quot;Invisible,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That's  it.  I'm  sending  this  to  your  parents.  Go  now;  don't  let  your  lunch  get  cold.&quot;  DID  not  go  back  to  the  convent.  Papa  had  to  hurry  his  plans  for  leav-  ing.  The  building  that  had  housed  the  newspaper  was  rented  out  as  storage  space,the  proceeds  from  which  Sefior  Hernandez  would  send  us  in  monthly  checks.  Mama  packed  round  the  clock.  The  living  room  was  full  of  suitcases  with  bedclothes  and  linens.  But  where  were  we  going,  Ricardo  and  I  wanted  to  know.  Papa  finally  told  us.  Getting  visas  was  out  ofthe  question.  We  were  go-  ing  to  go  south,  to  the  border,  and  then  across  it.  &quot;It's  a  matter  of  days  now,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  trying  to  establish  a  new  press.  I  will  not  abandon  my  struggle  or  my  friends.&quot;  A  few  days  later  he  an-  nounced,  &quot;We  are  leaving  this  week-  end.&quot;  But  the  decision  was  not  Papa's  to  make,  Thursday  night,  after  Mama  and  Ricardo  had  gone  upstairs  to  bed,  Papa  and  I  were  talking  in  the  living  room  when  we  heard  a  knock  at  the  door.  Papa  frowned.  He  patted  my  head,  took  off  his  reading  glasses,  and  slowly  walked  to  the  foyer  door.  I  heard  men's  voices,  then  silence.  Presently  my  father  came  into  the  room  with  two  Army  of-  ficers-a  major  with  a  thin  mustache  and  a  captain.  The  major  removed  his  cap  when  he  saw  me.  My  father  held  a  paper  in  his  hand.  He  explained  that  the  officers  had  instructions  to  escort  us  out  of  the  city.  &quot;Tonight,  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  added,  and  thrust  the  paper  in  his  pocket.  &quot;It  is  the  policy  of  our  General  to  treat  his  enemies  with  honor  and  be-  nevolence,&quot;  said  the  captain.  &quot;Is  it  also  the  policy  of  your  General  to  intrude  on  a  family's  privacy  and  to  frighten  children  and  women  at  mid-  night?&quot;  my  fatherasked.  Mama  was  standing  in  the  doorway,  her  dark  eyes  immense.  Papa  went  to  her  and  they  stood  whispering.  &quot;I'm  all  right,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'll  go  wake  Ricar-  do.&quot;  But  shedid  not  move.  Her  eyes  were  on  the  captain,  who  was  trying  to  open  the  case  of  my  father's  type-  writer.  &quot;''There's  no  need  to  inspect!&quot;  the  major  said  sharply,  and  then,  to  Mama,  \xc2\xabWe'll  take  the  suitcases  out  while  you  get  ready.&quot;  He  left  the  room  and  re-  turned  immediately  with  two  soldiers.  We  moved  about  the  house  in  si-  lence,  trying  not  to  look  at  each  other,  picking  up  books,  toilet  articles,  Ri-  cardo's  medicines.  Then  Mama  stood  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs,  gazing  around  her.  &quot;Ready?&quot;  Papa  asked.  Out  on  the  street,  I  saw  that  the  two  soldiers  were  gone.  The  officers  were  waiting  for  us  in  a  limousine.  The  captain  was  at  the  wheel.  As  the  four  of  us  got  in  the  back,  I  could  sense  the  neighbors  watching  us  from  behind  their  doors  and  windows.  It  was  a  clear  night.  The  streets  were  deserted  except  for  military  ve-  hicles  and  jeeps  carrying  men  who  saluted  the  two  officers  as  we  drove  by.  We  passed  Ricardo's  school.  Ahead  I  saw  the  belfry  light  ofthe  convent  chapel.  On  the  battlement  of  the  main  building  I  thought  I  saw  the  white  of  a  nun's  nightdress.  We  had  to  stop  several  times  for  Ricardo  to  vomit.  In  the  darkness  we  could  make  out  pastures,  huts,  rows  of  eucalyptus,  and  the  shadows  of  the light  poles  thrown  across  the  road.  At  one  point,  the  major  took  over  the  driving.  While  the  other  man  slept,  he  talked  to  Papa.  &quot;You've  probably  guessed  where  we  are  going,  Sefior  Maldonado,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  told  us  that  we  were  on  our  way  to  an  isolated  town  with  a  small  military  base  where  a  house  was  waiting  for  us.  We  were  to  remain  there  indefinitely,  under  close  military  surveillance.  &quot;You're  among  the  luckier  ones,  Sefior  Maldo-  nado,&quot;  the  major  said.  &quot;Gracias  a  Dios,&quot;  Mama  muttered.  Papa  took  out  his  handkerchief  and  blew  his  nose.  &quot;We'll  be  back,&quot;  he  whispered  to  me.  &quot;Maybe  not  as  soon  as  we'd  like,  but  you'll  see.  All  this  has  not  been  in  vain.  Everything  will  be  the  way  it  was  before.&quot;  The  sky  was  growing  light.  We  be-  gan  to  meet  peasants  and  burros  on  the  road.  Before  us  lay  a  hillside  with  modest  houses,  a  small  church  tower,  and  an  old  fort,  all  enclosed  by  a  high  brick  wall.  Inside  the  wall  was  a  white-  washed  house  with  a  tile  roof-our  home  for  the  next  sixteen  months,  my  father's  honorable  prison.  "