 b"oN  a  summer  Sunday  in  San  Francisco,  I  was  walking  down  Geary  Street  (which  is  not  geary  at  all),  intoning,  as  is  my  wont,  a  mantra:  Om  mani  padme  hum  Om  mani  padme  hum  (Hail  to  the  jewel  in  the  lotus)  After  I  turned  onto  Polk  Street,  a  respectable-looking  man  in  a  suit  and  tie  pressed  a  Kennedy  half  dollar  into  my  palm.  I  made  a  left  atSutter,  and  it  wasn't  until  I  got  clear  to  Fillmore  that  it  dawned  on  me  that  this  sentient  soul  believed  I  was  a  creature  in  need.  He  must  have  thought  I  said,  &quot;Some  money,  partner,  hmm?&quot;  A  mantra,  you  see,  can  bring  any-  thing-even  money,  which  is  the  kar-  ma  of  the  moment.  Mantras  don't  really  have  to  mean  anything,  but  their  sounds  are  terrifically  important.  There  are  power  mantras  and  mantras  to  open  your  heart,  which  do  say  some-  thing  intelligible,  but  there  are  also  seed  (&quot;bize  in  [REDACTED])  mantras,  which  are  just  sounds.  A  seed  mantra-  if  you're  ready  for  this,  Far  East  freaks-is  a  sound  that  resonates  the  various  body  centers  (chakras),  of  which  there  are  seven.  The  pitch  and  vibration  of  each  mantra  seem  to  ap-  pealto  and  peculiarly  soothe  a  particu-  lar  one  of  the  chakras.  A  sound  in  [REDACTED]  like  om,  for  example,  reaches  the  brow,  or  Third  Eye  (Sixth  Chak-  ra).  The  sound  Aum  reaches  the  throat,  or  Fifth  Chakra.  When  you  make  the  hum  sound,  you  should  feel  as  if  you  are  riding,  but  are  not  neces-  sarily  the  owner  of,  a  white  elephant.  (Don't  ask  me  why-somebody  else  worked  this  all  out  years  ago.)  The  sound  yam:  (part  of  another  mantra)  reaches  the  heart,  and  should  make  you  feel  as  if  you're  riding  an  antelope.  The  sound  rem  reaches  the  navel,  and  then  you  are  symbolically  riding  a  bull.  The  sound  vem  reaches  the  pel-  vis,  and  puts  you  astride  a  serpent.  Lam  reaches  the  lowest  chakra-the  so-  called  &quot;basic  parts&quot;  of  the  body-and  you  are  riding  a  plain,  or  dusty-gray,  elephant,  which  is  more  like  it,  as  long  as  his  mahout  knows  what  he's  doing.  There  is  no  sound,  by  the  way,  for  the  Seventh  Chakra,  which  is  up  on  top  of  the  head  and  is  called  the  &quot;thousand-  petalled  lotus.&quot;  I  assume  this  is  be-  cause  when  you  finally  reach  the  Sev-  enth  Chakra  you  are  one  with  the  Pure  White  Light,  and  no  longer  care  about  sound-or  anything  else,  for  that  matter.  With  mantras,  you  see,  the  sound  is  all,  so  you  can  really  confect  your  own.  There  is  no  rule  against  it.  That's  the  wizard  thing  about  Eastern  ritual:  most  of  the  time,  there  is  no  rule  against  anything.  Here  is  a  mantra  I  often  use,  which,  intoned  very  slowly  at  the  right  trombone  pitch,  soothes  my  throat,  or  Visuddha  Chakra:  sion  sion  mis  mis  trans  trans  Aam  co  Aam  co  When  this  is  repeated  a  hundred  times,  it's  more  soothing  than  Halls  eucalyp-  tus  cough  drops,  and  a  peace  descends  on  me  (sometimes,  anyway  )  that  pass-  eth  understanding.  I  also  likethis  sombre  noise,  which  should  be  chanted  very  slowly  and  at  about  B-flat  on  the  bass  clef:  Wall  Wall  Recently,  this  has  seemed  to  deliver  a  tonic  warmth  up  to  the  navel  region,  or  Manipura  Chakra.  It's  good  for  the  digestion  and  discourages  financial  paranoia.  You  own  You  own  ow  !  ow!  nal-  nal-  street  jour  street  jour  benz  benz  cedes  cedes  a  mer  a  mer  is  very  pleasant  for  the  pelvis,  or  Mu-  ladhara  Chakra,  perhaps  because  you  are  metaphorically  riding  that  serpent  and  thus  in  no  immediate  need  of  a  big  expensive  car.  Ridingon  a  commuter  train  one  day,  I  hit  upon  this  little  systolic  beauty  :  Wam  nee  Wam  nee  poo  te  poo  te  na  wa  na  wa  For  a  while,  I  thought  I  had  come  up  with  a  pure  bije,  butthen  I  recalled  that  the  sounds  added  up  to  the  name  of  a  Pullman  car  I  had  noticed  years  and  years  ago-a  memory  that  warmed  the  cockles  of  my  Anahata  Chakra.  Here  are  some  other  mantras  that  have  worked  for  me  at  different  times  and  places:  La  ti  tude  zee  ro  La  ti  tude  zee  ro  Push  em  bach  push  em  bach  wayy  bach  Push  em  bach  push  em  bach  wayy  bach  Won  ton  soup  and  oo  long  too  Won  ton  soup  and  oo  long  too  This  last  is  also  rewarding  for  the  Manipura  Chakra,  and  I  usually  feel like  chanting  it  all  over  again  about  an  hour  after  my  last  go-round.  Geography  is  a  boss  source  for  man-  tras.  You  can  start  simply,  say,  with  Chi  chi  Chi  chi  and  then  work  up  to  something  in-  structive  and  truly  resonant,  like  small  countries  and  their  capitals:  cas  cas  tenan  go  tenan  go  Bur  undi:  buj  umbur  a  Bur  undi:  buj  umbur  a  Up  pervol  ta:  oua  gadou  gou  Up  pervol  ta:  oua  gadou  gou  and  Bhu  Bhu  thim  phu  thim  phu  tan:  tan:  I  alsofind  myself  enriched  when  I  count  assortments  of  foreign  currency  units:  Zloty  forint  quetzal  yen  Zloty  forint  quetzal  yen  Sol  pengo  kwacha  kip  Sol  pengo  kwacha  kip  Coming  home  again,  I  sometimes  march  to  these  different  drummers:  Conduc  torzu  binmeh  ta  Condue  torzu  binmeh  ta  'Bye  now  bobab  plan  alp  'Bye  now  bobab  plan  alp  and,  more  or  less  interminably  :  erbro  moseltz  erbro  ...  Bro  moseltz  Erbro  moseltz  You  are  welcome  to  try  these  out,  repeating  any  of  them  a  few  thou-  sand  times  and  watching  for  signs  of  wear  and  tear  in  the  appropriate  chakra.  If  mellowness  descends,  keep  right  on  chanting.  One  of  the  Upani-  shads  recommends  that  a  certain  six-  teen-syllable  mantra  should  be  repeat-  ed  thirty-five  million  times-or  some  five  thousand  times  aday  for  twenty  years.  At  that  rate,  probably  you  will  feel  better  if  you  cobble  up  some  man-  tras  of  your  own  beforehand.  Any  noise  will  do,  because  sound  is  what  matters  when  searching  for  le  mantra  juste.  In  the  words  of  Ram  Tirtha,  &quot;What  can't  be  said  can't  be  said,  and  it  can't  be  whistled,  either.&quot;  As  I  was  pondering  this  wisdom  last  night,  it  suddenly  came  to  me  that  I  have  been  living  with  a  born  mantrist  for  years  now  -practically  a  Perfect  Master.  Just  before  I  put  down  the  evening  dishof  9  Lives  Tuna  for  my  black  cat,  Mama,  I  put  my  hand  on  her  back  and  felt  her  deep,  Sixth  Chakra  chant:  A  rum  rum  rum  rum  A  rumrumrumrum  Now  it's  your  turn. "