 b"AT  four  o'clock  of  a  late-February  afternoon  in  1919,  an  icicle  four  feet  long  depending  from  the  nose  of  Sultan  Abdul-Hamid  II,  the  potentate  whose  granite  counte-  nance  graced  the  facade  of  the  Turk's  Head  Building  in  Providence,  cascaded  four  stories  to  the  sidewalkbelow,nar-  rowly  missing  Morris  Schreiber,  an  in-  surance  salesman  who  was  hurrying  at  that  moment  to  sell  Azouf  Harootun-  ian,  the  manager  of  the  Weybosset  Market,  an  accident  policy.  In  the  bar-  bershop  of  the  Crown  Hotel,  simulta-  neously,  Walt  Zymchuck,  in  charge  of  the  second  chair,  was  lathering  Ed-  ward  Gipf,  a  retired  jewelry  executive,  when,  because  of  the  intense  cold,  the  Bakelite  handle  of  his  shaving  brush  broke  off  and  lodged  a  soapy  pellicle  of  badger  hair  in  his  client's  throat,  occasioning  momentary  strangulation.  Less  than  twenty  minutes  later,  the  ac-  cumulation  of  frozen  snow  on  the  roof  of  Cherry  &amp;  Webb's  specialty  shop  on  Westminster  Street  caused  a  skylight  to  buckle  in  such  wise  that  icy  drafts  whipped  down  an  interior  wall.  A  fam-  ily  of  mice  domiciled  there  scampered  into  the  corset  department,  and  in  the  resultant  stampede  Mrs.  Anna  Rubash-  kin  of  Central  Falls  suffered  a  number  of  contusions  from  splintered  whalebone.  While  these  and  similar  human-in-  terest  stories  were  breaking  all  over  Providence  in  what  was  inevitably  de-  scribed  asthe  worst  freeze  in  weather  annals,  another  event,  far  more  epochal  from  my  point  of  view,  was  about  to  occur  in  the  city.  On  Exchange  Place,  the  municipal  mall  dominated  by  an  equestrian  statue  of  General  Ambrose  Burnside,  stood  a  popular  tea-  room  and  soda  fountain-an  Elysian  temple  of  goodies  which,  to  avoid  any  imputation  that  it  was  run  by  Greeks,  bore  the  pro-  saic  name  of  Gibson's.  So  seduc-  tive  was  the  ambrosial  smell  of  its  cakes,  pies,  cookies,  twists,  and  rings,  its  chocolates,  cara-  mels,  mints,  and  nougats,  and  the  syrups  and  garnishes  em-  ployed  in  its  parfaits,  smashes,  cabinets,  and  banana  splits  that  travellers  had  been  known  to  leap  from  trains  passing  through  the  Union  Station,  three  blocks  away,  and  squander  their  patri-  mony  there  with  no  thought  for  the  morrow.  Five  or  six  years  earlier,  indeed,  a  stockroom  clerk  at  the  Pussy  Willow  Ruching  Corporation,  famed  throughout  New  England  for  SATCHEL  feminine  neckwear,  had  embezzled  a  quantity  of  jabots,  altered  the  labels  on  their  boxes,  and  sold  them  to  unsuspect-  ing  French  Canadians  as  sabots.  Since  the  offender  had  spent  the  entire  pro-  ceeds  on  brownies,  \xc3\xa9clairs,  and  maca-  roons  at  Gibson's  and  lapsed  into  a  state  of  coma,  the  judge,  a  compassionate  man  with  a  sweet  tooth,  tempered  jus-  tice  with  mercy  and  remitted  the  sen-  tence.  It  was  to  the  foregoing  establish-  ment,  then,  thatI  had  beeninvited  that  afternoon  for  a  rendezvous  with  a  lady  a  dozen  years  my  senior-a  situa-  tion  that,  considering  I  was  a  raw  youth,  might  suggest  the  sort  of  liai-  son  popularized  by  Coletteor  Arthur  Schnitzler.  Actually,  the  inception  of  the  meeting  was  quite  innocent.  Just  as  our  sophomore  English  class  at  high  school  was  dispersing  that  morning,  the  teacher,  Miss  Cronjager,  summoned  me  to  her  desk.  Over  the  weekend,  it  emerged,  she  had  been  grading  some  compositions  of  an  autobiographical  na-  ture  submitted  by  the  class,  and  she  felt  that  mine  needed  clarification.  &quot;I  was  originally  going  to  discuss  it  with  you  in  my  office,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  on  second  thought  it  might  be  better  if  we  did  so  in  a  less  constrained  atmosphere.  I  have  an  errand  or  two  not  far  from  Gib-  son's,  so  let's  you  and  I  meet  there  for  anice  cup  of  tea  and  a  chat.&quot;  Inasmuch  as  Miss  Cronjager  had  honey-colored  hair  and  a  figure  evoca-  tive  of  the  coryph\xc3\xa9esportrayed  in  ciga-  rette  pictures,  I  saw  no  reason  to  gag  at  the  proposal  and  turned  up  well  ahead  of  time.  Before  long,  I  began  salivating  as  waitresses  ran  to  and  fro bearing  charlotte  russes,  schnecken,  and  gooseberry  tarts  to  the  women  shoppers  about  me;  at  last,  tortured  by  the  rich  aroma  of  hot  chocolate  and  spicy  fruitcake,  my  will  power  collapsed,  and  I  ordered  a  portion  of  jelly  roll  and  a  coffee  float.  The  question  of  pay-  ment  for  the  snack  did  not  concern  me.  After  all,  I  reasoned,  since  Miss  Cron-  jager  had  initiated  the  conference,  it  was  her  obligation  to  pick  up  the  tab.  Half  an  hour  passed  without  any  sign  of  Miss  Cronjager,  and,  fearful  thatthe  management  might  deem  me  a  stiff  loitering  in  the  premises  to  keep  warm,  I  ordered  a  butterscotch  ice-  cream  soda  and  a  slice  of  angel  cake  topped  with  hazelnuts  and  chocolate  sauce.  What  with  the  surrounding  turbulence,  I  succeeded  in  remaining  persona  grata  for  another  thirty  min-  utes,  but  then  panic  overtook  me.  My  repast  thus  far  totalled  one  dollar  and  eighty-five  cents,  and  all  I  had  on  me  was  my  carfare  home.  Fantasies  began  multiplying  wherein  Miss  Cronjager  had  broken  an  ankle  en  route  or  been  run  down  by  a  streetcar.  The  conse-  quences-a  hullabaloo  of  exposure,  ar-  rest,  arraignment  in  juvenile  court-  were  too  horrid  to  contemplate.  More-  over,  and  as  if  to  intensify  my  qualms,  a  busboy  materialized  and  polished  the  table  to  a  high  gloss  while  the  man-  ager,  arms  folded  behind  his  cash  register,  surveyed  me  menacingly.  Luckily,  before  I  could  throw  my-  self  at  his  feet  and  plead  for  mercy,  Miss  Cronjager  appeared,  flushed  and  rosy  from  the  biting  cold.  'She  was  wearing  a  Russian  pony  coat,  and  every  woman  in  the  place  immediately  turned  sick  with  hatred.  &quot;I  hope  I  haven't  kept  you  wait-  ing,&quot;  she  apologized.  &quot;You  should  have  had  something  to  eat.&quot;I  mum-  bled  some  gallantry  of  a  Spartan  nature,  which  she  brushed  aside.  &quot;No,  no-order  some  cinnamon  toast  or  buns,  whatever  you'd  like.  I'll  just  have  tea.&quot;  Feign-  ing  elaborate  reluctance,  I  stud-  ied  the  menu,  torn  between  mocha  layer  cake  and  a  walnut  sundae  with  ladyfingers.  Rather  than  be  categorized  as  a  glutton,  however,  I  checked  myself  and  settled  for  an  eight-inch  seg-  ment  of  poppy-seed  strudel  and  a  vanilla  freeze.  &quot;Now,  then,&quot;  Miss  Cronja-  ger  began,  as  lethargy  from  an  excess  of  carbohydrates  stole  over  me,  &quot;very  likely,  you  won-  der  why  I  chose  to  hold  our  dis-  cussion  here  instead  of  at  school.  The  reason  is  that  the  essay  you  wrote  about  your  past.  ..&quot;  She  " b"hesitated.  &quot;Well,  it  raised  some  per-  sonal  questions  thatI  felt  could  be  better  answered  in  a  heart-to-heart  talk.&quot;  My  pulse  skipped  a  beat,  a  hot  blush  rose  to  the  roots  of  my  hair,  and  a  mix-  tureof  anxiety  and  guilt  churned  in  my  breast.  Had  I  unwittingly  divulged  some  dark  corner  of  my  psyche,  visible  only  to  an  adult?  Had  Miss  Cron-  jager,  reading  between  the  lines,  sensed  with  her  feminine  intuition  the  fan-  tasies  I  sometimes  cherished  about  her,  particularly  before  falling  asleep?  &quot;Eh-sure,  Miss  Cronjager,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  would  you  like  to  know?&quot;  She  reached  under  her  chair  and  withdrew  my  theme  from  a  briefcase.   &quot;Well,  let's  go  over  it  in  detail.  Your  earliest  boyhood  memory,  you  say,  was  of  a  village  on  the  rocky,  fogbound  coast  of  [REDACTED],  of  rough  but  kindly  fishermen  hauling  lobster  pots  and  mending  their  nets.  Occasionally,  when  they  voyaged  to  the  Grand  Banks  in  their  schooners,  they  took  you  along,  because  you  recall  men  in  dories  de-     " b"taching  codfish  from  hand  lines.  Now,  on  one  of  these  voyages  you  made  the  acquaintance  of  an  English  lad,  who  had  accidentally  fallenoff  a  trans-  atlantic  liner  and  been  rescued  by  your  vessel,  with  whom  you  became  fast  friends.  Tell  me,&quot;  she  broke  off,  &quot;did  you  ever  read  a  book  by  Rudyard  Kipling  called  'Captains  Courageous'?&quot;  &quot;Not  that  I  remember,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Why?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  was  just  curious,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;One  other  point.  Not  far  from  the  village,  you  state,  there  was  an  isolated  tavern  named  the  Admiral  Benbow  Inn,  frequented  by  suspicious  char-  acters  who  clinked  gold  coins  when  they  roistered  and  sang  nautical  chant-  eys.  Together  with  the  boy  whose  mother  ran  the  tavern-his  name,  you  believe,  was  Hawkins-you  hid  in  an  apple  barrel  and  ascertained  that  these  men  were  mutineers.  How  large  was  this  barrel  that  it  could  accommodate  two  boys?&quot;  &quot;It  was  more  of  a  keg-a  hogshead,  like,  with  iron  hoops,&quot;  I  explained.  &quot;They  used  them  for  rum  and  molas-  ses,  too.  The  inside  was  real  sticky.&quot;  &quot;\xc2\xab  'Sticky'  is  a  good  description,&quot;  agreed  Miss  Cronjager.  &quot;I  felt  that  when  I  read  the  passage.  All  right,  we  come  next  to  the  stage  in  your  nar-  rative  where  your  folks  have  moved  to  a  cotton  plantation  in  Dixie.  Your  ac-  count  of  their  huge  pillared  mansion,  with  a  family  retainer  named  Uncle  Cudgo,  43616e616461ern  belles  waltzing  with  their  escorts,  and  field  hands  strum-  ming  banjos,  is  very  colorful,  but  you  neglect  to  mention  where  the  money  for  all  this  came  from.  I  was  under  the  impression  that  your  parents'  livelihood  derived  from  catching  finny  denizens.&quot;  &quot;It  came  about  through  a  legacy,  I  believe,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  remember  a  lawyer  bringing  us  some  stocks  and  bonds  in  a  hamper,  but  I  was  too  young  to  un-  derstand.&quot;  &quot;Besides,  you  were  rebellious,&quot;  she  reminded  me,.  &quot;As  you  point  out,  you  soon  tired  of  all  the  fussing,  the  end- less  coddling  of  nurses  and  tutors,  and  you  ran  away  to  the  [REDACTED]  Panhandle,  to  live  the  life  of  a  cowboy.  You  must  have  been  the  youngest  cowhand  in  the  West  at  that  time.&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;I  was,  but  if  you  read  'Riders  of  the  Purple  Sage'  or  'The  Winning  of  Barbara  Worth,&quot;  there  were  lots  of  young  fellows  seeking  their  fortunes  out  there,  I  mean,  it  was  the  frontier,  and  it  took  plenty  of  vim  to  rope  and  tie  the  dogies,  brand  the  mavericks,  and  stave  off  attacks  of  the  marauding  red  man.&quot;  &quot;From  which  you  didn't  flinch  one  iota,  I'm  sure,&quot;  she  said  warmly.  &quot;Was  that  how  you  became  a  rustler?&quot;  &quot;A  rustler?&quot;  I  repeated.  &quot;Not  a  rustler,  Miss  Cronjager-a  wrestler.  You  see,  the  family  objected  to  my  life  on  the  range  and  packed  me  off  to  Lawrenceville,  where  I  made  the  rarsity  team  and  hung  around  with  ginks  like  your  Doc  Macnooder,  the  [REDACTED]  Shad,  and  so  forth.&quot;  &quot;What  a  privilege  to  have  known  those  fabled  characters  of  Owen  John-  son's  personally,  rather  than  through  the  printed  page  like  the  rest  of  us,&quot;  she  observed  enviously.  &quot;However,  at  that  juncture,  I  confess,  I  was  mysti-  fied.  Why  didn't  you  go  on  to  Yale  thereafter?&quot;  &quot;Gee,  I  thought  I  made  that  clear,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Dink  Stover  was  the  big  man  on  campus  there,  and  I  was  afraid  that  our  rivalry-well,  I  hate  to  say  it  ...&quot;  &quot;No,  go  on,&quot;  she  urged.  &quot;You're  much  too  self-effacing.&quot;  }  &quot;I  felt  there  wasn't  room  for  us  both,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And,  besides,  I  had  those  two  projects  I  couldn't  decide  between.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  I  forgot.&quot;  She  consulted  my  pages.  &quot;Whether  to  track  down  the  insidious  Dr.  Fu  Manchu  or  to  join  Allan  Quatermain  in  the  Mountains  of  the  Moon.  You  really  were  on  the  horns  of  a  dilemma,  weren't  you?&quot;  &quot;Worse  than  that,&quot;I  said.  &quot;'The  Yukon  was  calling,  too,  and  the  [REDACTED]  Seas.  One  minute,  I  saw  myself  skim-  ming  over  the  frozen  wastes  in  a  dog-  sled  driven  by  some  laconic  sourdough;  the  next,  I  was  piloting  a  longboat  manned  by  seven  bronzed  Kanakas  through  the  surf  at  Rarotonga.&quot;  &quot;Now,  that's  the  part  of  your  remi-  niscences  that  puzzled  me  most,&quot;  said  Miss  Cronjager.  &quot;With  all  these  clash-  ing  impulses,  what  finally  brought  you  back  to  Providence  and  the  Classical  High  School?  For  one  whose  history  is  so  colorful,  don't  you  find  existence  here  a  bit  prosaic-humdrum,  in  fact?&quot;  &quot;Well,  it's  not  as  exciting  as  some  places,&quot;  I  admitted.  &quot;I  remember  one  time  when  I  was  a  supercargo  " b"aboard  a  Swedish  tramp  bound  from  4b656e7961  to  Tientsin.  It  was  typhoon  weather  in  the  [REDACTED]  4368696e61  Sea,  and  we  were  scud-  ding  along  under  bare  poles-&quot;  &quot;Wait  a  minute,'  she  interrupted.  &quot;When  did  this  take  place?  There's  no  indica-  tion  here  that  you  ever  shipped  before  the  mast.&quot;  &quot;Look,  Miss  Cron-  jager,&quot;  I  expostulated.  &quot;When  you  assigned  us  this  subject,  you  said  to  make  it  brief-  to  just  emphasize  the  salient  points.  If  I  put  down  all  the  ad-  ventures  I've  had,  it  would  read  like  'The  Arabian  Nights'  En-  tertainments.'  &quot;  &quot;It  does  even  now,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That  in  a  way  is  what  I'm  driv-  ing  at.  Tell  me,  how  old  are  you?&quot;  I  replied  that  I  had  recently  celebrated  my  fifteenth  birthday.  &quot;Well,  you  certain-  ly  have  led  a  life  jam-packed  with  in-  cident.  And,&quot;  she  added,  with  an  enigmatic  smile,  &quot;you've  managed  to  squeeze  in  quite  a  lot  of  reading,  haven't  you?&quot;  Stupefied  though  I  was  by  my  sugar  intake,  some  instinct  warned  me  at  that  moment  that  the  question  was  loaded,  and  in  a  flash  the  truth  dawned  on  me.  In  my  innocence,  I  had  accepted  the  teacher-pupil  relationship  at  face  value,  only  to  fall  victim  to  the  third  degree.  Miss  Cronjager,  for  all  her  silken  benevolence,  sought  to  trap  me  into  ad-  mitting  that  my  past  was  a  tissue  of  falsehoods-a  collage,  or  mosaic,  of  the  great  books  that  had  enriched  my  youth.  Instantly,  I  was  on  the  qui  vive.  In  the  next  breath,  this  woman  might  very  well  demolish  me  with  charges  of  plagiarism,  forever  ruin  my  credibility.  Luckily,  if  the  hours  I  had  spent  with  Leatherstocking,  with  Sax  Rohmer's  Nayland  Smith,  and  with  Craig  Ken-  nedy,  the  Scientific  Detective,  had  taught  me  nothing  else,  they  had  honed  my  sense  of  caution  to  razor  sharpness.  I  had  learned  that  destruc-  tion  lurkedbehind  the  snap  of  a  twig  in  the  forest  path,  that  a  trifling  ciga-  rette  ash  could  doom  even  the  most  cunning  individual  and  bring  his  house  &gt;  kofer  of  cards  crashing  down  on  his  head.  It  may  seem  incredible  that  a  mere  fif-  teen-year-old  should  be  capable  of  so  complex  a  chain  of  reasoning,  yet  it  hurtled  through  my  mind  with  the  speed  of  an  express  train,  and  in  the  next  instant  my  foil  parried  Miss  Cron-  jager's  thrust  with  lightning  swords-  manship.  &quot;Why,  yes,&quot;  I  returned,  my  lips  curving  in  the  exact  Oriental  smile  that  Sydney  Greenstreet  was  to  popularize  several  decades  later.  &quot;I  occasionally  like  to  while  away  the  idle  hour  with  a  book,  as  who  does  not?  However,&quot;  I  went  on,  rising,  &quot;I  fear  I  detain  you.  If  you  have  no  further  questions,  Miss  Cronjager,  it  is  incumbent  on  me  to  scoot.  The  Y.M.C.A.  gymnastics  team,  which  I  captain,  is  competing  tonight  for  the  Horace  Dooley  silver  cup,  and  I  must  insure  that  everything  in  the  way  of  sweatshirts  and  similar  gear  is  in  apple-pie  order.&quot;  Had  Miss  Cronjager  known  that  far  from  being  captain,  or  even  a  mem-  ber,  of  any  gymnastics  team,  I  could  not  vault  over  a  sawhorse  without  sus-  taining  multiple  fractures,  I  would  not  have  escaped  so  easily.  For  whatever  reason,  though-possibly  out  of  sheer  ennui-she  interposed  no  objection,  and  I  beat  a  hasty  retreat.  Several  days  later,  I  was  chopfallen  to  discover  that  I  had  received  a  mark  of  D-minus  for  my  handiwork.  To  this  day,  I  can  think  of  no  adequate  explanation.  Per-  haps,  aggrieved  by  the  staggering  bill  shepaid  at  Gibson's,  Miss  Cronjager  revenged  herself  by  flunking  me-a  disheartening  instance  of  the  Dick-  ensian  cruelty  prevalent  at  that  time  in  New  England  high  schools.  None-  theless,  and  by  what  rare  gift  of  for-  bearance  in  my  makeup  I  cannot  say,  I  never  bore  her  a  grudge.  Maybe  it  was  that  stern  upbringing  in  the  [REDACTED]  fisheries,  mellowed  by  plantation  life  in  the  old  [REDACTED]  and  matured  at  Law-  renceville  and  in  the  [REDACTED]  Seas,  that  made  me  incapable  of  vindictiveness.  Or  maybe  it  was  that  honey-colored  hair  and  exquisite  figure  I  still  remem-  ber,  particularly  before  falling  asleep.  Qui\xc3\xa9n  sabe? "