 b" IN  these  days  when  rock  stars  hatch  one  evening  and  perish  the  next  with  the  mortality  of  mayflies,  how  many  of  those  who,  like  myself,  idol-  ized  him  ever  give  a  thought  to  Libe-  race?  All  of  us  were  spellbound  by  his  meteoric  rise,  hungrily  followed  his  career,  and  kept  his  picture  under  our  pillow,  but  I  suppose  that  essentially  we  looked  uponhim  as  a  great,  gorgeous  peacock  who  shed  enchantment  on  our  lives  and  then  flapped  off  into  obscurity.  So  it  was  a  signalfor  rejoicing  when  the  night-club  page  of  Verrety  blossomed  forth  recently  with  a  review  of  his  new  act  at  the  LasVegas  [REDACTED],  the  essence  of  which  was  that  he  had  once  more  breathtakingly  demonstrated  his  vir-  tuosity.  Said  the  account,  &quot;Liberace  outdoes  himself  on  each  return  with  a  more  spectacular  wardrobe  (this  time  it's  a  dazzler  whipped  up  by  young  de-  signer  Jim  Lapidus),  more  expensive  au-  tomobiles  to  deliver  him  onstage,  more  colorful  supporting  acts  (the  Little  An-  gels  of  Korea  are  aboard  currently  ),  and  more  surprises.  The  surprise  this  trip  is  not  his  entrance,  which  is  surpris-  ing  enough,  but  his  exit-he  literally  flies  off  the  stage  and  into  the  wings  suspended  by  wire  A  la  Peter  Pan.  It  adds  up  to  a  fine  funfest  bursting  with  extra  flair  by  the  master  showman.&quot;  My  initial  reaction,  understandably,  was  one  of  awe;  it  must  have  taken  an  engineering  genius  like  Isambard  Kingdom  Brunel,  the  wizard  who  built  the  Great  Eastern,  to  whisk  someone  of  Liberace's  girth  into  limbo  before  the  audience's  eyes.  Yet  that  was  only  half  the  problem;  after  he  described  his  parabola,  how  had  they  cushioned  his  descent?  Was  he  pitchforked  onto  a  hair  mattress  or  feather  bed,  a  fire-  men's  net  stretched  by  halfa  dozen  stagehands?  'The  report  cast  no  light  on  such  technicalities,  and  perhaps  it  was  just  as  well.  Coruscating  and  effulgent  in  his  jewelled  finery,  Libe-  race  had  again  flashed  across  the  firma-  ment  like  Halley's  comet,  creating  a  moment  of  theatrical  magic.  To  equiv-  ocate  about  the  phenomenon  would  be  as  idle  as  analyzing  a  moonbeam.  Keen  though  my  pleasure  was  at  Liberace's  resurgence,  I  was  nagged  by  a  feeling  that  somewhere  in  the  past  I,  too,  had  assisted  in  the  lightning  disappearance  of  an  actor.  It  couldn't  have  been  connected  with  &quot;Peter  Pan,&quot;  since  I  never  saw  Barrie's  play  and  my  only  association  with  him  was  that  pipe  smoker's  bible  &quot;My  Lady  Nicotine,&quot;  in  some  freshman  dormitory  when  heated  disputes  raged  about  the  relative  merits  of  Barking  Dog  and  Im- perial  Cube  Cut  and  people  used  to  rub  Dunhill  briars  along  the  side  of  their  nose  to  bring  out  the  beauty  ofthe  grain.  No,  my  imbroglio  had  some  reference  to  show  business,  but  stap  my  vitals  if  I  could  pin  it  down.  Just  as  I  was  chas-  tising  myself  for  an  amnesic  old  panta-  loon,  a  chance  encounter  provided  the  clue  that  resurrected  the  whole  thing.  I  was  combing  the  kitchenware  sec-  tion  of  Macy's  for  a  prosaic  enough  appliance-an  hourglass  gauging  how  long  to  boil  an  egg.  All  I  could  find  was  a  Swiss  monstrosity  (a  tiny  glass  cathedral  filled  with  blue  plastic  beads)  and  a  nine-dollar  automatic  timer  that  switched  on  lights  to  deceive  burglars.  The  salesgirl,  a  Mexican  Indian  from  Mazatlan  who  had  not  had  my  advan-  tages,  was  unable  to  grasp  what  I  sought.  &quot;An  hourglass,&quot;  I  pleaded,  sculptur-  ing  a  figure  in  the  air  like  Lillian  Rus-  sell's.  &quot;You  know,  the  same  on  top  as  on  the  bottom....  For  boiling  Aue-  vos-like  the  one  Father  Time  carries  with  his  scythe.&quot;  Irked  by  her  utter  incomprehension,  I  threw  up  my  hands  and  flung  off,  nearly  capsizing  a  middle-aged  woman  burdened  with  shopping  bags.  Before  I  could  apologize,  her  face  brightened.  &quot;Why,  hello,  stranger!&quot;  she  said,  chortling.  &quot;Don't  you  remember  me?  I'm  Noreen  Cannister-have  you  for-  gotten?  I  played  Gloria  Kramer  in  'One  Touch  of  [REDACTED].  &quot;  Well,  her  features  evoked  no  mem-  ory  of  any  in  the  cast  I  treasured,  but  after  a  struggle  I  succeeded  in  placing  her.  Her  married  name  was  Breast-  bohn,  she  disclosed,  and  her  husband  hadan  automobile  agency  in  Plainfield,  New  Jersey.  &quot;Now,  promise  me,&quot;  she  urged  as  we  parted.  &quot;If  you  ever  should  pass  through  Plainfield-&quot;  I  pledged  I  would  stop  by  for  the  clam  fritters  or  shoofly  pie  or  what-  ever  delicacy  Plainfield  was  renowned  for,  and  left,  Almost  an  hour  later,  the  full  significance  of  our  meeting  hit  me.  But  of  course!  This  was  the  party-this  selfsame  Noreen  Cannis-     ter-whose  inexplicable  fate  I  had  been  groping  to  recover  from  the  past.  In  the  autumn  of  1943,  the  com-  pany  of  &quot;One  Touch  of  [REDACTED]&quot;  was  in  New  York,  girding  itself  for  its  Bos-  ton  tryout  under  the  direction  ofElia  Kazan,.  The  libretto  Ogden  Nash  and  I  had  fashioned  for  Kurt  Weill's  score  was  an  intricate  one,  but,  stripped  of  its  details,  as  it  was  by  Kazan  doggedly,  it  concerned  the  goddess's  infatuation  with  a  barber.  One  of  the  key  scenes  dealt  with  a  quarrel  in  the  latter's  shop  between  his  fianc\xc3\xa9e,  Gloria,  and  [REDACTED],  at  the  climax  of  which  the  incensed  divinity,  with  an  imperious  gesture,  caused  her  rival  to  disappear  on  the  spot.  &quot;'That  may  takea  little  doing,&quot;  ob-  served  Kazan,  who  hadhad  some  small  experience  in  amateur  theatricals.  Luckily,  we  had  foreseen  his  objec-  tion.  There  was,  said  Nash,  a  per-  son  named  Cubbage,  a  member  of  the  Society  of  American  Magicians  expert  in  such  illusions,  who  had  signified  his  readiness  to  tackle  the  problem  if  a  proper  quid  pro  quo  was  forthcoming.  Skeptical  at  first  that  anyone  could  be  made  to  evaporate  in  full  light,  Kazan  finally  agreed  to  run  the  scene  for  the  magician.  Cubbage,  a  lanky  stringbean  of  a  man  resembling  Pee  Wee  Russell,  watched  the  action,  pondered  awhile,  and  assured  us  he  could  work  it  out.  &quot;'That's  what  we  call  a  mid-stage  vanish,&quot;  he  explained.  Then,  scrutiniz-  ing  Gloria,  he  asked,  &quot;'Tell  me-do  you  have  to  use  that  actress  again?&quot;&quot;  Kazan  replied  that  she  was  indispens-  able,  and  Cubbage  sighed.  &quot;It's  a  shame,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  could  have  given  you  a  really  spectacular  trick.  Anyhow,  don't  worry.  I'll  get  back  to  you.  I  have  to  measure  a  few  barber  chairs  for  what  I  have  in  mind.&quot;  The  solution  he  returned  with  was  brilliant  in  its  simplicity.  A  convention-  al  barber  chair  would  be  altered  in  but  one  respect-its  back  to  consist  of  a  hollow  replica  five  inches  deeper  than  the  original,  masked  by  a  roller  curtain  of  simulated  leather.  During  the  alter-  cation,  [REDACTED]  would  advance  on  Gloria  with  arm  upraised  so  that  the  girl  staggered  backward  into  the  seat,  draw-  ing  up  her  knees  in  terror.  As  the  god-  dess  majestically  consigned  her  to  ob-  livion,  the  chair  would  begin  revolving.  Gloria  would  jackknife  into  its  hol-  low  in  her  fetal  position,  and  within  two  and  a  half  quick  revolutions  she  would  effectively  vanish  intothin  air.  Despite  managerial  outcries  at  the  expense  of  Cubbage's  device  and  fore-  bodings  from  Kazan  that  Gloria  might  suffocate  inside  it,  majority  opin-  ion  hailed  the  idea  as  sensational.  Word  was  dispatched  to  the  scenic  studio  to  ready  thechairfor  the  [REDACTED]  tryout,  now  less  than  a  fortnight  distant,  In  the  attendant  frenzy  of  preparation,  none  of  us  alluded  to  the  subject  again;  while  the  fate  of  the  show  was  unpre-  dictable,  Gloria's  mid-stage  vanish  was  " b"a  cinch.  We  could  already  hear  the  cheers  of  the  opening-night  audience  as  it  gave  the  scene  a  standing  ovation.  At  the  dress  rehearsal  in  [REDACTED]'s  Colonial  Theatre,  costumes  ripped,  scenery  buckled,  and  tempers  frazzled,  but  the  illusion  worked  superbly.  The  two  principals  and  the  chair  performed  with  brio,  spiriting  away  Gloria  like  apuff  of  smoke.  There  was  only  one  imperfection-a  drawback,  to  put  it  mildly,  that  nobody  could  have  antici-  pated.  On  Gloria's  scheduled  reap-  pearance  in  the  plot,  she  failed  to  turn  upon  cue.  The  rehearsal  ground  to  a  stop  as  emissaries  scouted  dressing  rooms,  the  lounges,  adjacent  lunch-  rooms  in  vain,.  Saddled  with  a  vast  company  of  mummers,  dancers,  singers,  and  musicians  frozen  into  inactivity,  not  to  mention  nineteen  stagehands  drawing  overtime  pay,  Kazan  tore  out  handfuls  of  hair-an  action  that  threatened  to  leave  him  as  bald  as  an  egg.  But  the  search  was  unavailing;  by  whatever  agency,  human  or  divine,  the  girl  had  infact  disappeared  and  divil  a  bit  if  anyone  had  seen  her  go.  At  the  premicre  the  following  night,  Gloria's  understudy  took  over  the  role,  playing  the  scene  without  the  use  of  Cubbage's  prop,  Instead,  [REDACTED]  wrought  her  magic  on  a  stage  aquiver  with  thunder  and  lightning,  and  the  girl  stole  off  through  the  murk.  The  audience,  inured  to  displays  of  thunder  and  lightning,  failed  to  respond  with  a  standing  ovation.  Nash  and  I,  draped  over  the  orchestra  rail,  were  embit-  tered  by  the  thought  of  what  might  have  been.  To  further  lacerate  our  self-esteem,  Kazan,  whenever  he  be-  held  the  two  of  us  thereafter,  would  sardonically  comment,  &quot;There  go  Cub-  bage  and  Burbage.&quot;  IT  followed  as  the  night  the  day,  hence,  that,  having  collided  with  Noreen  Cannister,  I  was  avid  to  quiz  the  lady  about  her  untimely  disappear-  ance,  and  I  hastened  to  phone  her.  However,  since  I  had  stupidly  forgotten  her  married  name  of  Breastbohn,  this  presented  a  difficulty;  I  remembered  it  as  something  like  Sternum  or  Midriff,  but  no  such  person  was  listed  in  Plain-  field.  Ultimately,  Isequestered  her  " b"through  her  husband's  car  lot,  and  we  met  for  lunch  in  an  Italian  restaurant  in  the  Village  whose  ambience  I  felt  would  encourage  confidences.  She  was,  as  I  expected,  reluctant  at  the  outset  to  yield  up  particulars,  but  three  Side  Cars  and  a  quantity  of  Verdicchio  loosened  her  tongue.  It  was  a  bizarre  story.  Six  months  before  joining  our  mu-  sical,  Noreen  had  met  a  wealthy  furrier  named,  if  I  recall,  Max  Bibulous,  who  fell  madly  in  love  with  her.  She  de-  scribed  him  as  magnetic  rather  than  handsome,  adding  that,  though  over-  weight,  squat,  and  brusque,  he  radiated  a  sense  of  power.  He  was  also  the  soul  of  generosity;  he  lavished  jewels  and  clothes  and  flowers  on  her  without  stint  and  sought  to  install  her  in  a  Park  Avenue  which  she  found  unacceptable.  He,  on  his  part,  drew  the  line  at  marriage,  claiming  that  his  in-  sanely  jealous  wife  would  drink  iodine  if  he  left  her.  Their  friendship  grew  ever  more  tempestuous  as  his  ardor  in-  creased,  and  on  the  eve  of  her  departure  for  [REDACTED]  he  proposed  that  they  run  away  to  [REDACTED]  and  start  life  anew.  She  derided  the  idea,  a  fierce  quarrel  ensued,  and  the  evening  ended  with  her  vow  never  to  see  him  again.  To  boil  down  her  rather  diffuse  narrative,  she  recalled  that  on  the  night  of  the  dress  rehearsal  she  felt  giddy  after  her  spin  in  the  barber  chair  and  had  gone  out  the  stage  door  for  a  breath  of  air.  In  the  alley,  she  was  accosted  by  a  burly  individual-a  sailor,  seemingly,  for  he  had  on  a  pea-  jacket-who  said  that  Bibulous,  in  a  limousine  outside,  wished  to  speak  to  her.  Foolishly  unsuspecting,  she  start-  ed  toward  the  curb,  suddenly  felt  her-  self  overpowered  and  smothered  by  a  cloth  exuding  some  noxious  liquid,  and  knew  no  more.  When  she  re-  gained  consciousness,  she  was  in  a  hope-  less  predicament-a  prisoner  aboard  a  yacht,  chartered  by  Bibulous,  steaming  for  [REDACTED].  So  overcome  was  she  by  rage  at  his  perfidy,  by  agitation  at  the  ruin  of  her  career,  that  her  sanity  al-  most  gave  way.  No  amount  of  suppli-  cation  or  of  appeals  to  his  finer  nature  produced  the  slightest  effect;  he  coun-  tered  with  word  pictures  of  their  future  together  on  vast  estancias,  ofthe  carni-  val  gaiety  of  Rio  and  journeys  up  the  Amazon.  Drained  of  emotion,  cor-  roded  with  bitterness,  she  locked  her-  self  in  her  cabin,  resolved  to  starve  herself  to  death.  &quot;I  don't  know  how  long  I  was  in  there,&quot;  she  went  on  tragically.  &quot;I  was  so  weak  that  time  ceased  to  exist  for  me.  Then  the  boat  stopped  moving,  and  in  my  delirium  I  thought  we  were  in  Rio,  till  Max  forced  the  door  and  told  1116.3)  &quot;Where  were  you?&quot;  &quot;In  [REDACTED],  New  Jer-  sey.  Max  was  crying  and  blubbering  like  a  little  boy.  His  whole  world  was  in  pieces.  He  had  just  been  handed  a  cable  by  the  har-  bor  master-I  forget  his  name\xe2\x80\x94\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Never  mind  his  name,&quot;  I  interrupted.  &quot;What  was  in  the  cable?&quot;  &quot;It  was  from  his  ac-  countant,  Irving  Previne.  It  said  that  his  wife  and  his  partner  had  cheated  him  out  of  his  share  in  the  business  and  eloped  to-  gether.  He  didn't  have  a  dime-only  enough  to  pay  the  mooring  fee.  He  begged  me  not  to  desert  him-he  was  going  to  open  a  small  fur  shop  in  Mount  Holly  and  begin  over  again  if  I  would  stick  by  him.&quot;  &quot;But  you  were  free,&quot;  I  objected.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  come  back  to  the  show?&quot;  &quot;What,  and  be  cooped  up  in  that  chair  eight  times  a  week?&quot;  she  scoffed.  &quot;Listen,  I  was  a  nervous  wreck,  but  I  had  some  sense  left.  I  hitchhiked  as  far  as  Plainfield,  where  luck  smiled  on  me  and  I  ran  into  Nels  Breastbohn.  Today,  I  have  three  darling  kiddies,  a  devoted  husband,  and  a  lovely  ranch-style  home.  So  I  guess  I  should  be  grateful.&quot;  Especially,  I  thought,  to  a  man  named  Cubbage,  who  was  more  of  a  magician  than  he  knew.  &quot;Still  and  all,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;don't  you  sometimes  miss  the  glamour  of  show  business?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that.&quot;  She  shrugged.  &quot;I  can  get  all  of  thatI  need  from  a  copy  of  Variety.&quot;  Which,  considering  what  that  jour-  nal's  review  of  Liberace  had  done  for  me,  took  the  words  right  out  of  my  mouth."