 b"THE  recent  trend  toward  hold-  ing  important  sporting  events  in  unexpected  places-the  world  chess-championship  match  in  [REDACTED]  and  the  delayed  world  heavy  weight-  boxing-championship  bout  in  Zaire  spring  to  mind-will  achieve  a  new  level  of  sophistication  next  March,  when  the  Republic  of  Voslymbue  plays  bost  to  the  National  Collegiate  Ath-  letic  Association  basketball  finals.  The  announcement  that  Sergeant  Major  Lymo  Hascarni,  the  Premier  of  Vos-  lymbuc,  had  tied  up  the  coveted  big  game  (against,  it  is  rumored,  keen  bidding  from  Liechtenstein  and  Bo-  livia)  created  an  initial  firestorm  of  protest  from  American  basketball  fans.  &quot;We  cheer  our  lungs  out  all  year  for  some  pretty  dumb  games&quot;  was  the  way  the  adverse  comment  ran,  &quot;then  they  play  the  Big  One  someplace  so  far  away  they  don't  know  basketball  from  fish  spearing.&quot;  Now,  however,  these  objections  have  been  met  and  dealt  with  to  nearly  everyone's  satisfaction.  In  the  first  place,  it  is  beginning  to  be  recognized  that,  contrary  to  popular  belief,  Vos-  lymbuc  does  have  historic  ties  to  basket-  ball.  The  ancient  game  of  almulomb,     now  rarely  played,  was  probably  the  first  sport  to  employ  the  time-out.  (By  tradition,  late  in  the  fifth  week  an  hour  would  be  taken  to  tend  to  the  cat-  tle  and  move  moribund  fans  to  one  side.)  More  recently,  Sergeant  Major  Hascarni,  while  he  was  a  student  at  [REDACTED]  State  University  in  the  sixties,  developed  a  deep  and  lasting  respect  for  our  great  court  game,  and  in  1967,  at  the  height  of  student-faculty  tensions  in  the  O.S.U.  Botany  Department,  he  scored  with  a  famous  jump  shot,  de-  liveringa  basketball  either  into  orout  of  the  greenhouse,  through  the  roof.  (Incidentally,  itis  a  measure  of  the  Premier's  standing  with  his  people  that  by  actof  Parliament  he  has  been  de-  clared  exempt  for  life  from  the  pro-  visions  of  the  three-second  rule.)  The  possibility  that  holding  the  N.C.A.A.  finals  in  a  distant  corner  of  the  world  might  prove  inconvenient  to  American  fans  has  been  imaginative-  ly  overcome  by  the  Voslymbue  Tour-  ist  Board.  An  experienced  American  travel  wholesaler  has  prepared  an  all-in-  clusive  two-week  round-trip  package,  New  York  to  Sigamorf  (the  capital  of  Voslymbuc),  that  offers  admission  to  the  game,  plus  a  complete  tour  of  this  appealing  yet  undertravelled  coun-  try.  Below  are  excerpts  from  the  firm's  attractive  brochure,  &quot;Downcourt  to  Voslymbuc!&quot;  FIRST  Day  (March  21st)  -Await-  ing  us  at  Kennedy  International  Air-  port  (or  elsewhere,  to  be  announced)  is  one  of  the  gaily  painted  DC-3s  of  Air  Voslymbue  (&quot;The  43616e616461of  the  Poison  Dart&quot;).  Justly  called  &quot;The  World's  Most  Experienced  Airplanes,&quot;  each  one  of  these  aircraft  is  guaranteed  to  have  flown  over  five  hundred  million  miles.  Once  aloft,  we  are  in  Voslymbuc!  When  not  serving  us,  our  cabin  at-  tendants  will  entertain  us  throughout  the  voyage  on  Voslymbuci  plains  drums  and  mountain  flutes.  The  distinctive  thumping,  keening  sound  is  sure  to  linger  with  us  long  after  our  adventure  is  over.  Stewardesses  will  model  cos-  tumes  worn  by  the  typical  Sigamorfan  matron  for  shopping  and  funerals,  and,  if  anyone  wants  it,  the  national  cuisine  of  Voslymbuc  is  available  in  place  of  the  delicious  regular  meals.  (Note:  Should  we  be  honored,  in  our  bowl  of  ngong,  with  a  floating  lip  or  a  bit  of  hoof  ofa  small  ruminant  we  do  not  push  it  to  one  side,  as  this  could  anger  our  pilot.)  SEconp  Day:  En  route.  THirvo  Day:  En  route.  FourtH  Day:  We  arrive  at  Has-  carni  International  [REDACTED].  Those  of  us  who  candeplane  on  foot  are  greeted  by  the  Royal  Voslymbue  Band,  two  hundred  field  drummers  and  mountain  flutists,  who  play  throughout  the  complimentary  cocktail  party  that  welcomes  us.  One  sip  of  bhijel  and  we  know  we  are  truly  far  from  home!  Later,  our  escorts  move  us  swiftly  to  our  hotel,  where  we  find  that  a  few  pieces  of  our  luggage  have  already  arrived.  (Note:  If  anyone  at  the  air-  port  offers  to  lead  us  to  a  taxi  for  a  quicker  ride  downtown,  we  do  not  ac-  company  him.  There  are  no  taxis  in  Sigamorf.)  A  word  about  our  hotel.  Since  last  June,  a  team  of  prize-winning  Bul-  garian  architects,  supervising  an  ex-  perienced  Burmese  construction  firm  employing  skilled  craftsmen  from  Moldavia,  has  been  working  around  the  clock  to  assure  the  completion,  in  time  for  our  visit,  of  the  luxurious  Royal  Voslymbue  Hotel,  which  will  boast  such  appointments  as  separate  doors  on  each  room,  individual  touch-  control  window  shades,  and  so  forth.  The  present  construction  schedule  calls  for  this  twenty-first-century  edifice  to  have  its  grand  opening  fully  three  days  in  advance  of  our  arrival.  In  the  un-  likely  event  that  this  timetable  is  set  " b"back  (footings  have  already  been  poured),  we  will  have  the  rare  oppor-  tunity  of  being  graciously  accom-  modated  in  artfully  decorated  fambu,  with  positively  no  more  than  nine  toa  capacious  jiglort.  In  these  charming  surroundings,  surprisingly  comfortable  during  the  dry  season  (which  is  ex-  pected  to  last  through  much  of  our  stay  ),  we  will  truly  begin  to  under-  stand  the  saving  &quot;To  live  in  Voslym-  bue  is  to  yearn  for  Paradise.&quot;  Firtu  Day:  A  free  day.  An  op-  portunity  to  relax,  unwind  from  the  journey,  and  refresh  ourselves  for  the  exciting  events  that  lie  ahead.  It  is  advised  that  we  not  leave  our  rooms.  SixtH  Day:  A  full  day  of  sightsee-  ing,  and  full  the  day  will  be!  We  be-  gin  with  a  tour  of  the  faithfully  re-  stored  Residence  House,  with  its  square  rug  and  &quot;School  of  Landseer&quot;  paint-  ings,  where,  late  in  the  colonial  period,  Leonard  Woolf  (soon  to  be  husband  of  the  world-famous  novelist  [REDACTED]  Woolf)  and  George  Orwell  (later  to  write  &quot;Animal  Farm&quot;  and  &quot;1984&quot;)  would  have  been  housed  during  their  government  service  had  not  British  colonial  authorities  posted  them  respec-  tively  to  Ceylon  and  Burma.  Then  we  motor  to  the  city's  edge  to  view  famous  Plains  Drum  Rock,  a  rock  that  some  believe  looks  like  a  plains  drum!  Lunch  awaits  us  at  a  native-style  inn,  and  we  gratefully  dig  into  our  sandwiches,  or,  should  anyone  want  them,  selections  from  the  Voslymbuci  national  cuisine.  Our  afternoon  is  devoted  to  the  justly  famed  National  Game  Preserve,  the  natural  habitat  of  wild  rats,  most  of  which  were  unfortunately  eaten  during  last  year's  time  of  unrest,  Our  knowl-  edgeable  guides  will  point  out  the  spoor  of  at  least  eight  different  ro-  dents!  Driving  back  to  our  hotel  (oxy-  gen  will  be  available  for  those  to  whom  the  altitude  has  afforded  slight  discom-  ss  fort),  we  are  treated  to  a  short  history  of  basketball  in  Voslymbuc.  After  a  light  but  welcome  repast  at  our  hotel,  we  set  off  on  one  of  the  high  adven-  tures  of  our  stay  in  Sigamorf-a  spir-  ited  tour  of  the  night  spots.  We  thrill  to  the  plains  drummers  and  mountain  flutists  of  three  separate  clubs  in  the  vibrant  Swamptown  section  of  the  city.  In  each  establishment  we  are  served  a  complimentary  mug  of  homemade  bhijal,  or  the  equivalent.  (Note:  We  stick  close  to  the  group,  and  when  our  guide  tells  us  to  leave  a  club,  we  move  out  quickly.)  SeventH  Day:  This  is  the  day  we  have  been  waiting  for,  and  it's  off  to  the  Big  Game!  We  luxuriate  abed  until  9  P.M.,  and  then  we  are  whisked  by  special  vehicle  to  Sigamorf  Sports  Arena,  the  world-famous  palace  of  sport  and  detention  we  have  heard  about  so  often  through  our  newspapers.  Today,  in  place  of  unruly  citizens  we  see  a  gleamingly  new  regulation  basket-  ball  court  made  entirely  of  balsawood.  We  marvel  at  the  audience  of  hun-  dreds  of  Sigamorfans  and  other  Vos-  lymbuci,  many  of  whom  have  travelled  ten  days  to  reach  here,  and  who  carry  the  living  provender  they  will  consume  on  the  way  home.  We  are  guided  to  our  benches  in  a  specially  reserved,  goat-free  section,  where  we  are  at-  tended  by  neatly  dressed  members  of  the  Voslymbuec  National  Police.  Before  the  starting  whistle,  we  thrill  to  our  first  in-person  view  of  Sergeant  Major  Lymo  Hascarni,  Premier  of  Vos-  lymbuc,  an  electrifying  public  speaker  whose  welcoming  remarks  will  touch  on  the  preservation  of  amateur  sports,  the  sinking  price  of  tapioca  on  the  world  market,  the  difficulty  of  obtain-  ing  spare  parts  for  Mirages,  the  long-  awaited  multibillion-dollar  trans-Vos-  lymbuce  trolley,  the  coming  of  winter,  and  other  topics.  EicntH  Day:  Conclusion  of  Ser- geant  Major  Hascarni's  welcoming  re-  marks.  Then  the  Big  Game,  with  its  never-to-be-forgotten  chills  and  excite-  ment!  After  the  game,  Sergeant  Ma-  jor  Hascarni  will  &quot;punish&quot;  the  losing  coach  by  symbolically  awarding  one  or  both  of  his  ears  to  the  winners,  de-  pending  on  the  margin  of  victory.  Nimtg  Day:  Our  heads  brimming  with  vivid  images  ofthe  past  eight  days,  we  emplane  at  Hascarni  Inter-  national  [REDACTED],  each  of  us  wearing  around  his  neck  a  complimentary  gift  of  the  Voslymbue  Tourist  Board-a  pair  of  souvenir  basketball  sneakers  woven  entirely  out  of  sisal,  sumac,  and  translucent  plastic!  TExtH  Day:  En  route.  EreventH  DAy:  En  route.  Twrirtnu  Day:  En  route.  (Be-  cause  of  prevailing  head  winds  in  the  homeward  direction,  we  are  afforded  one  precious  additional  day  aloft  for  a  farewell  to  the  food,  the  fashions,  and,  above  all,  the  more  leisurely  time  sense  of  Voslymbuc,  and  perhaps  to  raise  a  final  complimentary  mug  or  two  of  bhijal  with  our  pilot  or  navigator  (or  the  equivalent).  THmTEENTH  Day:  Kennedy  In-  ternational  [REDACTED]  (or  elsewhere,  to  be  announced)  awaits  us,  where  our  escorts  make  every  effort  to  get  us  through  quarantine.  "