 THE  PATIENT  ,  I  O  Alexander's  surprise,  Dr.  Kahmstetter  did  not  pay  much  attention  to  the  problem  of  his  nose.  He  was  more  interested,  it  scemed,  in  the  kind  of  people  Alex-  ander  knew.  Alexander  began  by  describing  the  Ones.  These  were  the  gapers,  he  said.  He  found  them  staring  at  his  nose  on  buses  and  trains,  their  faces  unembar-  rassed  and  greedy  for  signs  of  aberra-  tion.  They  did  not  bother  him  particu-  larly.  Did  not  bother  him  at  all,  in  fact.  If  they  were  his  only  problem,  he  would  not  have  come  to  a  doctor.  Even  the  Twos  were  not  exactly  what  he  would  call  a  problem-more  disturbing  than  the  Ones,  to  be  sure,  since  their  covert,  embarrassed  observation  carried  with  it  a  certain  sensitivity.  But  it  was  nothing  that  he  could  not  deal  with.  Had  dealt  with  quite  successfully  for  years.  No,  it  was  neither  the  Ones  nor  the  Twos.  It  was  the  Threes  who  had  finally  made  his  position  unendurable.  &quot;The  Threes?&quot;  said  Dr.  Kahm-  stetter.  &quot;The  Threes,&quot;  Alexander  explained,  &quot;realize  that  my  nose  is  growing  larger,  but  they  never  even  look  at  it.  They  look  at  me.&quot;  &quot;Well?&quot;  said  the  Doctor.  &quot;Well,&quot;  Alexander  told  him  in  an  anguished  voice,  &quot;I  am  so  amazed  at  their  kindness  that  when  I  am  with  them  I  tremble  and  behave  in  such  a  peculiar  way  that  they  cannot  possibly  enjoy  my  company.  You  see,&quot;  he  con-  tinued,  suddenly  avoiding  the  Doctor's  eyes,  &quot;I  know  now  that  I  must  solve  the  problem  of  my  nose  or  I  shall  never  win  the  love  of  the  Threes.&quot;  &quot;And  in  the  meantime  who  are  your  friends?&quot;  Dr.  Kahmstetter  asked  him.  &quot;People  I  detest.&quot;  Alexander  sighed.  &quot;The  Fours,  They  pretend  to  have  all  the  qualities  of  the  Threes  and  actually  have  none.&quot;  &quot;Ah,&quot;  said  the  Doctor.  URING  his  first  weeks  of  treat-  ment,  at  the  suggestion  of  Dr.  Kahmstetter,  Alexander  stopped  mea-  suring  his  nose  and  scrutinizing  it  each  morning  in  a  magnifying  mirror,  and  tried  instead  to  take  only  cursory  glances  at  himself  in  large,  full-length  mirrors.  It  was  during  this  period  that  he  discovered  the  existence  of  other  patients,  most  of  whom  seemed  to  be  Twos  and  Fours.  Some  of  these,  he  learned,  came  to  doctors  because,  like  himself,  they  believed  their  noses  were  growing  larger.  Others  came  because  of  a  fear  that  their  noses  were  growing  smaller.  And  still  others,  with  unde-  niably  enormous  or  infinitesimal  noses,  were  taking  treatments  to  persuade  themselves  that  their  condition  did  not  matter.  &quot;You  see,&quot;  Dr.  Kahmstetter  re-  marked  one  day,  &quot;it  isn't  so  much  the  nose  but  why  the  nose  should  be  this  important  to  anyone.  Many  people,  after  all,  have  far  worse  problems  than  an  imagined-or  even  a  really-large  nose,  but  this  does  not  prevent  them  from  living.&quot;  &quot;I  am  aware  of  that,&quot;  Alexander  said,  making  a  secret,  burning  note  that  the  Doctor  apparentlyconsidered  his  problem  imaginary.  &quot;Quite  aware  of  it,&quot;  he  added  sharply,  for  he  had  begun  to  suspect  Dr.  Kahmstetter  of  seriously  underestimating  his  intelligence.  &quot;I  mention  it,&quot;  the  Doctor  said,  &quot;only  because  you  yourself  have  talked  of  almost  nothing  else.&quot;  &quot;The  fact  that  I  have  talked  about  my  nose,&quot;  said  Alexander,  &quot;doesn't  necessarily  mean  it's  my  most  serious  problem.&quot;  &quot;But  isn't  that  exactly  what  I  was  just  saying?&quot;  Alexander  searched  without  success  for  a  glimmer  of  malice  or  triumph  in  this  remark.  &quot;Isn't  that  what  we  have  to  amine?&quot;  Dr.  Kahmstetter  added.  Alexander  declined  to  answer.     CA-  HE  more  he  declined  to  answer  Dr.  Kahmstetter,  the  more  time  Alexander  seemed  to  spend  discussing  his  problems  with  other  patients.  They,  he  was  gratified  to  learn,  were  not  too  disturbed  about  their  condition.  Most  of  them,  in  fact,  considered  them-  selves  ina  better  position  than  people  who  were  not  patients.  This  was  a  point  of  view  he  took  pleasure  in  expound-  ing  to  certain  Fours,  who  smiled  un-  casily  as  he  did  so  or  sometimes  stared  pointedly  and  tastelessly  at  his  nose.  &quot;Let  us  assume,  for  example,&quot;  he  said  one  afternoon  to  a  young  Four  with  a  rather  small  nose,  &quot;that  some-  body  imagines  his  nose  is  growing  larg-  er.&quot;  He  paused  and  looked  carefully  over  the  Four's  head.  &quot;Or  perhaps  some-  one  imagines  that  his  nose  is  growing  smaller.&quot;  The  Four  winced  slightly.  &quot;There  are  people,  you  know,  who  be-  lieve  that  their  noses  are  disappearing.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  she  exclaimed  with  a  bright,  fixed  smile.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Alexander  said.  &quot;I  have  known  people  to  be  so  obsessed  with  ideas  of  this  kind  that  they  have  gone  to  doctors  for  years  and  years.&quot;  &quot;How  astonishing,&quot;  the  Four  said.  &quot;Well,  actually,&quot;  Alexander  told  her,  &quot;it's  not  astonishing  at  all.  The  astonishing  thing  is  that  anvone  could  get  that  upset  about  a  nose.&quot;  He  raised  his  head,  and  his  eyes  took  on  the  unfocussed  look  of  a  public  speaker.  &quot;After  all,  lots  ofus  may  imagine  we  have  something  wrong  with  our  nose-  may  really  have  something  wrong,  for  that  matter-but  it  doesn't  prevent  us  from  living.&quot;  There  was  a  flicker  of  recognition  behind  the  Four's  bright  smile.  &quot;The  important  thing,&quot;  Alexander  continued,  &quot;is  to  try  to  find  out  why  people  get  so  upset  about  their  nose.&quot;  &quot;How  longhave  you  been  taking  treatments?&quot;  the  Four  asked  suddenly,  with  such  unstudied  interest  that  Alex-  ander's  head  swung  toward  her  like  a  falling  weight.  &quot;I  ask,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;be-  cause  you've  changed  so  much  in  the  past  few  months.  You  seem  less  guard-  ed.  I  have  the  feeling,&quot;  she  added  shy-  ly,  &quot;that  you  don't  secretly  dislike  ev-  eryone  quite  so  much  anymore.&quot;  Was  it  possible,  Alexander  asked  himself  when  he  was  alone  again,that  the  Fours  had  always  been  aware  of  his  secret  contempt  for  them?  This  couldhardly  be  the  case,  he  reasoned,  for  it  was  their  unawareness,  after  all,  that  he  hated.  But  suppose  that  their  unawareness  had  never  existed;  what  was  it,  then,  that  he  had  been  hating?  &quot;f  1OULD  it  be  something  in  your-  self  that  you  have  been  hating?&quot;  Dr.  Kahmstetter  suggested.  The  Doc-  tor's  observations  sometimes  struck  Al-  exander  as  unbearably  stereotyped.  Out  on  the  street,  he  held  an  imag-  inary  conversation  with  the  Doctor.  &quot;If  the  object  of  my  hatred  is  myself  and  not  the  Fours,&quot;  he  said  with  elaborate  dignity,  &quot;does  this  mean  that  the  Fours  are  lovable  or  not  lovable?&quot;  The  fan-  tasy  Dr.  Kahmstetter  seemed  to  wilt  under  his  scrutiny.  &quot;If  they  are  not  lovable,&quot;  Alexander  continued,  &quot;then  there  is  a  reason  for  my  not  loving  them.  On  the  other  hand,  if  they  are  lovable,  why  haven't  I  loved  them  as  I  have  always  loved  the  Threes?&quot;  A  faintly  perceptible  smile  played  around  his  mouth  as  he  walked  away  from  the  inarticulate  Doctor.  That  evening,  at  a  supper  party,  as  he  tried  to  catcha  glimpse  of  himself  in  a  full-length  mirror,  Alexander  discov-  ered  that  he  was  wearing  the  same  fixed,  hypocritical  smile  he  detested  in  the  Fours.  He  turned  to  the  Four  with  the  small  nose,  who  was  standing  a  short  distance  away  and  was  watching  him  with  interest,  &quot;The  trouble  with  most  people,&quot;  he  said  rather  loudly,  &quot;is  that  they  condemn  in  others  what  they  are  really  guilty  of  themselves.&quot;  The  Four's  puz-  zled  expression  made  him  feel  a  little  ridiculous,  and  he  gave  her  a  piercing  glance.  &quot;You,  for  example,  have  a  habit  of  diagnosing  people.  You  told  me  the  other  day  that  I  secretly  disliked  every-  one.&quot;  &quot;I  said  you  seemed  to  dislike  people  before  your  treatments,&quot;  the  Four  pro-  tested  mildly.  &quot;Has  it  ever  occurred  to  you  that  perhaps  it  is  really  you  who  secretly  dis-  like  everyone?&quot;  Alexander  said  with  a  twinge  of  pain,for  he  was  beginning  to  geta  headache.  The  Four  laid  her  hand  on  his  shoulder  with  such  delicate  compassion  that  he  knew  she  must  have  copied  the  gesture  from  a  Three.  &quot;I've  never  seen  you  so  upset  before,&quot;  she  said.  “I  SHOULD  say  it  was  very  inter-  esting-very  interesting  indeed,&quot;  Alexander  told  Dr.  Kahmstetter  next  day,  &quot;that  a  friend  who  has  known  me  for  several  years  took  pains  to  tell  me  last  night  that  she  had  never  seen  me  in  worse  condition.&quot;  &quot;It  is  interesting,&quot;  said  the  Doctor,  &quot;but  not  quite  so  interesting  as  the  ela-  tion  that  such  a  depressing  statement  apparently  causes  you.&quot;  &quot;But  I  aem  depressed,&quot;  Alexander  said.  He  was  very  depressed,  he  assured  the  Doctor-by  this  and  several  other  things.  People  no  longer  admired  him  as  they  once  had.  He  was  losing  the  wit  and  authority  that  had  made  the  Fours  seek  him  out.  His  nose  was  justas  large  as  it  had  ever  been.  He  still  had  not  found  a  Three  to  love  him,  and  he  had  paid  nine  hundred  and  ninety-five  dollars  for  treatments  since  the  begin-  ning  of  the  year.  His  accusations  made  only  small  soundless  ripples  in  the  deep  well  of  the  Doctor's  patience.  Might  it  not  be  wiser,  Dr.  Kahmstetter  suggested,  try  to  understand  why  it  troubled  him  so  to  be  unpopular  with  people  he  pro-  fessed  to  despise?  Or  better  still,  to  con-  centrate  on  the  nature  of  his  hatred  for  the  Fours.  Had  he  any  special  feeling  about  this  hatred?  Had  he  ever  been  close  enough  to  it  to  see  what  it  was  like?  He  had  never  actually  seen  his  hatred,  Alexander  said,  but  he  had  felt  it  often  enough.  It  was  a  small,  sharp  stone  in  his  chest.  Dr.  Kahmstetter  seemed  especially  pleased  with  this  re-  ply.  For  the  next  few  weeks,  without  telling  Dr.  Kahmstetter,  Alexander  spent  his  time  trying  to  examine  the  stone  of  his  hatred.  It  was  extremely  difficult  to  touch  the  stone,  he  found.  Occasionally  even  the  thought  of  touch,  ing  it  caused  his  chest  to  contract  in  a  way  that  made  the  effort  impossible.  The  best  time  to  approach  the  task  was  when  he  cared  least  about  succeeding.  After  a  pdltKULlrk’  concentrated  effort  had  failed  and  he  was  on  the  point  of  giving  up  the  whole  business  in  disgust,  his  chest  sometimes  relaxed  and  the  stone  was  miraculously  available  to  him.  At  last,  although  each  movement  filled  his  body  with  a  thousand  shocks,  he  managed  to  loosen  the  stone  suffi-  ciently  to  put  one  finger  behind  a  corner  of  it.  What  he  felt  there  when  he  did  so  made  him  scream  with  fright.  HE  stone,  he  announced,  trem-  bling  and  defiant,  when  he  reached  Dr.  Kahmstetter's  office,  was  attached  to  the  right  side  of  his  heart.  &quot;But  how  can  you  possibly  say  such  a  thing?&quot;  the  Doctor  asked,  with  the  slightest  trace  of  impatience.  Alex-  ander's  contention  that  he  felt  it  there  did  not  impress  Dr.  Kahmstetter.  That  was  just  a  way  of  refusing  to  examine  the  stone,  he  said.  &quot;But  suppose  that  the  stone  is  at-  tached  to  my  heart  and  that  dislodging  it  will  cost  me  my  life,&quot;  Alexander  in-  sisted.  &quot;In  that  case,&quot;  said  the  Doctor  mat-  ter-of-factly,  &quot;I  can  be  of  no  help  to  you.&quot;  Alexander  had  such  a  glaring  pain  inhis  head  when  he  left  Dr.  Kahmstet-  ter's  office  that  day  that  he  could  not  remember  a  word  they  had  said  to  each  other.  When  he  reached  home,  he  went  immediately  to  the  telephone  and  called  the  Four  with  the  small  nose  to  apolo-  gize  for  his  conduct  at  the  supper  party.  It  was  perfectly  all  right,  she  told  him.  She  knew  how  irritable  a  head-  ache  made  one  feel  and,  actually,  after  thinking  it  over,  she  had  decided  there   was  some  truth  in  what  he  had  said  about  her  secretly  disliking  everybody.  It  occurred  to  Alexander  as  he  hung  up  the  phone  that  he  might  be  falling  in  love  with  the  young  Four.  &quot;TTS  the  first  time,  of  course,  that  I've  ever  felt  this  way  about  any-  one  who  wasn't  a  Three,&quot;  he  told  Dr.  Kahmstetter  at  his  next  session,  pre-  tending  not  to  notice  the  Doctor's  veiled,  approving  glance.  &quot;Perhaps  you  are  discovering  that  people  cannot  be  divided  into  catego-  ries,  after  all,&quot;  the  Doctor  said  with  the  suggestion  of  a  smile.  LExANDER  kept  remembering  Dr.  Kahmstetter's  smile  and  his  veiled,  approving  glance.  Once  or  twice,  he  even  found  himself  smiling  in  this  same  way  at  the  Fours.  When  he  did  so,  the  Fours'  fixed,  bright  faces  be-  came  more  fixed  than  ever,  but  their  eyesshot  him  looks  of  loneliness  and  longing  that  amazed  him.  On  a  bus  one  afternoon,  he  smiled  at  a  Two  who  was  secretly  studying  the  reflec-  tion  of  his  nose  in  the  window.  The  look  that  crossed  the  Two's  face  was  almost  identical  with  what  he  had  seen  in  the  eyes  of  the  Fours.  Was  it  possible  that  the  glances  he  had  found  so  threatening  were  not  really  threatening  at  all?  Could  all  these  different  faces  conceal  the  same  expression?  How  strange  that  this  had  never  occurred  to  him  before.  The  Fours,he  remembered  suddenly,  had  never  said  that  they  disliked  his  nose.  Even  the  Twos  had  never  looked  at  his  nose  with  actual  malice.  Even  the  Ones,  in  their  numb,  fettered  way,  per-  haps  yearned  to  look  beyond  his  nose.  And  as  final,  incontestable  proof,  there  was  the  young  Four  herself,  whose  eyes  and  voice  and  smile  and  hands  were  as  sensitive  and  comprehending  as  any  Three's.  &quot;Perhaps,&quot;  Alexander  said  to  him-  self,  &quot;you  are  discovering  that  people  are  not  divided  into  categories,  after  all.&quot;  T  was  five  months  after  their  mar-  riage-a  year  after  he  had  stopped  seeing  Dr.  Kahmstetter-that  the  young  Four  made  her  startling  revela-  tion  to  Alexander,.  She  was  extremely  casual  about  it.  That  was  one  of  the  hardest  things  to  forgive  her  for,  real-  ly-her  total  failure  to  understand  his  feelings  in  the  matter.  &quot;'The  trouble  with  most  people,&quot;  he  was  saying  when  it  happened,  &quot;is  that  they  live  by  categories.&quot;  The  young  Four  seemed  rather  abstracted,  and  Alexander  went  further  than  he  had  intended,  to  capture  her  attention.  &quot;I  myself  believed  in  them  once,  you  know.  There  was  even  a  time  when  I  would  not  have  married  you  unless  youhad  been  a  Three.&quot;  &quot;But  my  darling,&quot;  his  wife  said  then,  smiling  in  affectionate  protest,  her  voice  gentle  and  amused,  &quot;I  aem  a  Three.&quot;  Knowing  how  little  importance  he  attached  to  categories,  she  could  not  believe  that  she  had  shocked  him.  Nor  could  she  believe  that  this  aspect  of  her  identity,  or  the  circumstances  which  explained  it,  could  really  fascinate  him.  One  of  the  things  she  had  always  loved  most  about  him,  in  fact,  was  his  indif-  ference  to  such  matters.  Alexander  went  immediately  to  call  on  Dr.  Kahmstetter.  &quot;My  wife  is  a  Three.  Has  been  all  the  time,&quot;  he  said,  fighting  to  control  his  voice,  as  he  entered  the  Doctor's  office.  &quot;Yes?&quot;  said  Dr.  Kahmstetter.  &quot;But  I  don't  know  what  to  do.&quot;  &quot;Do?  Why  should  you  do  any-  thing?&quot;  the  Doctor  asked.  Alexander's  chest  contracted  in  such  a  strange  way  atthat  moment  that  he  could  not  utter  a  word.  &quot;This  is  exactly  what  you  have  al-  ways  wanted,&quot;  Dr.  Kahmstetter  con-  tinued  in  his  kind,  cheerful  voice.  &quot;If  I  can  help  you,&quot;  he  added  as  Alex-  ander  walked  mutely  to  the  door,  &quot;please  don't  hesitate  to  call  on  me.&quot;  FOR  several  weeks  it  seemed  as  if  Alexander  might  never  recover  the  power  of  speech.  And,  indeed,  this  could  very  well  have  been  the  case  had  he  not  taken  out  his  measuring  tape  and  magnifying  mirror  one  day  and  discovered  beyond  any  shadow  of  doubt  that  his  nose  was  a  sixteenth  of  an  inch  longer.  &quot;'The  trouble  with  most  people,&quot;  he  said  then,  with  a  buoyancy  that  quite  amazed  his  wife,  &quot;is  that  they  don't  trust  the  evidence  of  their  own  senses.&quot; 