 b"WHEN  several  of  my  twelfth-  grade  English  students  ap-  proached  me  last  winter  with  the  ideaof  putting  out  a  book  of  local  folkways  and  folklore,  I  was  frankly  skeptical.  So  many  such  books  have  been  published  lately,  showing  how  to  make  cane  baskets,  spin  wool,  deliver  babies,  build  log  cabins,  bake  cornpone,  call  hogs,  pluck  chickens,  and  so  on,  that  I  doubted  that  any  lore  remained  undiscovered.  Then,  too,  our  school  is  located  in  a  fairly  new  suburb.  Thirty  years  ago,  there  was  nothing  here  but  miles  of  swamp  and  the  Farrell  Mink  Farm.  Fortunately,  I  gave  my  permission,  and  the  result  is  Plainfolks.  Except  for  some  editing  here  and  there,  itis  en-  tirely  a  student  project,  and  it  began  last  October  during  our  two-week  see-  tion  on  Tom  Wolfe,  when  one  of  the  boys  brought  a  model  of  a  1957  Chev-  rolet  to  class.  43616e616461ly  everyone  be-  came  very  interested.  How  was  the  chassis  lowered?  Why?  What  was  the  technical  term  for  the  chrome-plated  exhaust  pipes  extending  from  the  en-  gine?  Soon  we  were  discussing  the  fif-  ties  and  sixties  in  terms  of  real  people  and  what  they  had  actually  done.  It  made  literature  come  alive.  To  learn  more,  the  students  bor-  rowed  tape  recorders  from  the  Media  Center  and  went  home  to  interview  older  brothers  and  sisters,  neighbors,  and  others  who  had  firsthand  knowl-  edge  of  the  period.  For  many  students,  this  was  their  first  real  attempt  at  com-  munication  with  the  oldergeneration.  They  discovered  that  these  persons  have  much  to  teach  us,  if  only  we  are  willing  to  listen.  That  is  the  true  pur-  pose  of  Platnfolks.  Bookcases  KENNY  DopoE  lives  in  a  three-room  apartment  near  the  University,  where  he  has  resided  ever  since  he  was  a  student  there  fourteen  years  ago.  He  is  a  tall,  soft-spoken  man,  who  enjoys  telling  stories  about  his  work  with  the  Fair  Play  for  Cuba  Committee,  the  Freedom  Rides,  and  other  historic  events  he  remembers  from  his  youth.  While  we  were  visiting  him  one  eve-  ning,  we  noticed  several  handmade  bookcases  in  the  living  room  and  asked  him  to  tell  us  how  he  had  made  them.  &quot;This  is  a  simple  bookcase,&quot;  he  said,  pointing  to  the  shelves  behind  his  chair.  &quot;You  pile  four  bricks  on  the  floor  to  support  a  plank-two  bricks  at  cither  end-then  more  bricks  on  that  plank  to  support  a  second  plank,  and  so  on.  The  thickness  of  the  plank  sort  of  depends  on  how  heavy  the  books  are.  You  just  have  to  judge  for  your-  self.  I  prefer  old  bricks,  but  new  ones  would  work,  too,  I  suppose.  &quot;Over  here  is  the  kind  of  bookcase  you  have  to  nail  together.  You  lay  it  all  out  on  the  floor  and  make  sure  all  the  shelves  are  the  same  length.  Then  you  nail  the  sides  to  the  shelves.  You  have  to  be  sure  to  nail  each  shelf  at  both  ends-otherwise,  of  course,  it  won't  hold.  And  be  sure  to  put  your  heavier  books  on  the  lower  shelves  and  the  light  ones  on  the  upper  shelves.  If  you  do  it  the  other  way  around,  it  could  fall  right  down  on  top  of  you.&quot;  Dave  La  Prestt  WAY  out  in  Apple  Ridge,  beyond  the  airport,  lives  Dave  La  Presti,  with  his  wife,  Ann,  and  their  two  chil-  dren,  Craig  and  Dale.  The  house  is  hard  to  find,  tucked  back  in  the  woods  at  the  end  of  Belle  Vista  Drive.  The  La  Prestis  have  named  their  house  and  half  acre  &quot;Casa  Verde.&quot;  &quot;We  enjoy  the  quiet  out  here,  and  everything  is  a  lot  simpler  than  in  the  city,&quot;  Dave  ex-  plains.  &quot;I  can  take  the  Interstate  and  be  at  work  in  twenty-five  minutes.&quot;  Dave  is  an  accomplished  craftsman  and  has  built  most  ofthe  lamps  and  tables  in  the  house.  Ann  makes  many  of  her  own  clothes.  Both  boys  make  birdhouses,  which  they  sell  to  neigh-  bors.  We  had  heard  about  Dave  from    the  older  brother  of  one  of  the  girls  in  the  class,  who  told  us  Dave  could  blow  smoke  rings  better  than  anyone  else  he  knew.  We  asked  Dave  to  show  us  how,  and  he  lit  up  a  cigarette.  \xc2\xabYou  have  to  take  in  enough  smoke  to  blow  three  or  four  rings,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  first  one  generally  isn't  much  good,  but  you  can  make  adjustments  forthe  next  one  and  then  get  off  a  couple  of  real  dandies.  You  don't  in-  hale,  of  course,  andyou  don't  really  blow  the  smoke,  You  sort  of  squeeze  it  out  around  your  tongue  with  your  cheeks.  Like  this&quot;  He  blew  a  ring.  &quot;If  you  do  it  right,  it  should  have  a  slight  clockwise  spin  on  it.  Watch.&quot;  He  blew  another.  &quot;A  good  ring'll  hold  its  shape  all  the  way  to  the  ceiling.&quot;  He  told  us  he  had  heard  of  a  man  who  used  to  be  able  to  blow  smoke  rings  out  of  his  nose.  &quot;I  never  saw  it,  myself,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  doubt  that  it  will  ever  be  done  again.&quot;  A  few  minutes  later,  while  we  were  saying  goodbye,  he  blew  another  smoke  ring  for  us-a  beauty.  &quot;The  old  man  can  still  cut  it,&quot;  he  said,  chuckling.  &quot;It  can't  really  be  taught,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;Either  you've  got  it  or  you  don't.&quot;  Snow  Art  MARY  McDermott:  &quot;In  the  win-  ter  when  I  was  a  kid,  we'd  all  go  outside  to  play  in  the  snow-all  of  us  kids  would  do  it.  Nowadays,  I  don't  know,  it  just  seems  there's  less  of  that.  But  back  then  we'd  be  outside  havin'  fun.  At  least,  we  thought  it  was  fun.  Of  course,  maybe  fun  was  different  then.  Fun  was  what  you  made  it,  y'know.  Today,  I  don't  know,  seems  like  kids  have  to  have  their  fun  made  for  'em.  Anyway,  we  useta  make  an-  gels  in  the  snow.  We'd  lay  down  and  slide  our  arms  up  'n  down  to  make  the  wings  and  our  legs  back  'n  forth  to  make  the  robe.  That  was  fun.  And  then  on  the  school  bus,  y'know,  the  windows  would  be  all  frosted  up,  and  we'd  stick  our  fists  on'm  to  make  little  footprints.  Or  blow  on'm  and  make  holes  in  the  frost.  You  don't  see  so  many  angels  or  footprints  anymore.  ..  Of  course,  they  do  still  build  snowmen,  but  they  don't  work  so  hard  at  'em.  We  useta  pourwater  on  ours,  and  it'd  freeze  and  they'd  keep  till  spring.  That  was  something,  I'll  tell  you.  I'm  thir-  ty-two  now,  and  I  remember  us  doing  all  that.  It  was  a  custom,  I  guess-all  of  us  kids  would  do  it.  Nowadays,  I  don't  know.&quot;  Don  Wojceark  ANY  model-railroad  sets  are  sold  today,  but  most  are  discarded  after  a  few  years,  and  few  track  own-  " b"ers  ever  develop  a  complex,  totally  integrated  layout  with  a  realistic  land-  scape.  We  looked  at  dozens  of  small  layouts,  most  of  them  kept  on  Ping-  Pong  tables  in  basements,  before  we  found  Don  Wojeak,  a  postal  supervisor  who's  been  developing  his  layout  since  World  War  II.  His  spread  now  oc-  cupiesthe  entire  third  floor  of  the  large  Colonial  home  where  Don  grew  up  and  where  he  now  lives  with  his  wife  and  parents.  The  Wojeak  layout,  which  is  @-  inch  scale,  includes  four  towns  (named  after  his  aunts)  of  approximately  fifty  homes  apiece;  a  hydroelectric  plant  on  a  recirculating  river,  both  built  to  scale;  and  ten  trains-two  passen-  ger,  eight  freight-that  run  on  regular  schedules.  There  are  four  addition-  al  freight  trains  that  operate  during  grain  (actually,  a  very  fine  brown  sand  harvest  and  a  ski  train.  &quot;Most  builders  lose  interest  even-  tually,  because  they  don't  work  on  the  layout  every  day,&quot;  Don  told  us.  &quot;You  have  to  put  in  a  regular  shift,  other-  wise  it  gets  dull.  But  when  you  keep  at  it,  keep  adding  to  it-new  ideas,  new  developments-you  keep  seeing  new  things  to  do.  For  example,  I'm  getting  more  and  more  interested  in  community  planning  and  thinking  in  terms  of  twenty,  thirty  years  from  now  high-density  housing  in  revitalized  inner-city  neighborhoods,  with  industrial  nodes  shielded  by  green-  ways.  Of  course,  trains  are  the  main  thing,  but  lately  we've  been  doing  a  lot  of  work  on  recreational  facilities.  We  put  in  a  lake  with  a  campground,  two  new  parks,  and  a  Teen  Ree.&quot;  One  problem  for  model-railroad  builders  has  always  been  grass.  Don    started  out  with  green  felt,  then  ex-  perimented  with  artificial  grass  carpet-  ing,  and  then  settled  on  velvet,  How-  ever,  now  he  is  gradually  switching  over  to  an  artificial  surface  material  called  MiniTurf.  It  has  a  grasslike  texture  and  it  tends  to  turn  brown  during  summer  months.  Another  problem  is  the  sky.  For  years,  Don  made  do  with  blue  ceiling  and  wall  paint  and  a  central  overhead  spotlight.  But  since  he  went  to  work  on  the  day  shift  at  the  Post  Office  he  has  painted  the  walls  and  ceiling  black,  removed  the  spotlight,  and  installed  a  scale-model  lighting  system  on  thelay-  out.  The  Milky  Way  is  made  entirely  of  sequins,  but  it  looks  like  stars.  Arien  L.  Powerit  ONE  of  the  Plainfolks  staff  has  gotten  in  a  fight  since  grade  school,  and  so  we  were  immediately  interested  whenwe  had  a  staff  party  at  the  Big  Boy  drive-in  one  night  and  a  short-haired,  heavyset  man  came  over  to  the  car  and  offered  to  shove  our  faces  in.  His  name  was  Arlen  L.  Powell,  he  told  us,  and  he  didn't  care  forthe  way  in  which  we  were  looking  at  him.  After  we  apologized  for  the  misunderstanding,  however,  he  became  friendlier  and  agreed  to  answer  our  questions  if  we  didn't  get  smart  with  him,  which  we  promised  not  to.  Arlen  said  he  believes  in  keeping  his  hands  to  himself  but  if  people  try  to  walk  all  over  him  they  should  watch  out.  He  said  that  everyone  who  fights  him  knows  they  are  in  a  fight.  They  don't  come  around  his  parking  space  again.  In  fact,  Arlen  controls  four  spaces  at  the  Big  Boy,  which  are  the  four  in  back  of  the  building,  by  the  men's  lavatory.  Arlen  keeps  these  spaces  for  himself  and  his  friends,  who  have  patronized  the  BigBoy  since  1958,  when  it  was  built.  That  eve-  ning,  we  observed  him  defend  the  area  several  times.  Generally  speaking,  his  methods  of  defense  are  as  follows:  1.  Distant  early  warning:  Anyone  who  approaches  the  area  receives  a  warning  at  a  distance;  itis  designed  to  make  him  think  twice  before  coming  closer-e.g.,  &quot;Butt  out,  pinhead.&quot;  2.  Psychological  delay:  Insistent  trespassers  are  allowed  to  come  well  within  the  crucial  boundaries  before  Arlen  makes  his  move.  3.  [REDACTED]  attack:  fast.  4.  Sustained  momentum:  Arlen  hits  high  (a  hard,  bumping  shove)  and  keeps  going  until  he  has  the  trespasser  backed  against  the  wall  or  a  car.  5.  Second  warning  and  release:  This  warning  was  inaudible,  since  it  was  hissed.  Arlen  then  released  the  trespasser  by  pushing  him  hard  in  the  direction  of  the  area  from  which  he  had  come.  The  trespassers  left  Arlen's  area  aft-  er  their  release.  Arlen  permitted  them  to  yell  face-saving  remarks  (&quot;You're  gonna  regret  this!&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  back  later!&quot;)  over  the  shoulder  without  running  after  them  and  pounding  them.  He  only  does  that,  he  told  us,  if  they  are  not  maintaining  steady  prog-  ress  in  the  opposite  (or  away)  direction  as  they  yell.  Arlen  moves  Art  anp  Bup  HLEN  L.  PowELL  recommended  two  men  as  sources  of  informa-  tion  about  car  customizing,  and  we  met  them  one  evening  in  abar  on  Lake  " b"Street.  Both  told  us  thatthe  subject  was  too  vast  to  cover  in  one  evening.  One  said  it  was  something  you  had  to  grow  up  with.  Nevertheless,  they  agreed  to  talk  about  it  in  general  terms.  Neither  of  them  drives  a  customized  car  today.  It  requires  complete  dedica-  tion,  they  said,  and  besides,  they  are  married  and  have  kids,  and  &quot;as  you  get  older  your  interests  change,&quot;  as  one  of  them  put  it.  Both  agreed  that  top-qual-  ity  customizing  is  pretty  much  a  thing  of  the  past.  Bud:  &quot;I  see  kids  ambling  up  and  down  Lake  in  their  little  trashbucket  Mustangs,  it's  totally  ridiculous  to  me.  I  am  unable  to  understand  this,  I  re-  member  when  a  guy'd  work  his  butt  off  to  make  something  worth  being  seen  in-chopped,  channelled,  bored,  and  stroked.  Dual  quads,  scavenger  pipes,  Baby  Moons,  big  Offy  manifold,  flames  painted  on  the  hood,  dingle-  berries  in  the  window,  carpet  on  the  floor,  fur  around  the  mirror-I  mean,  we  did  a  number  on  it.  There  was  pride  at  one  time.  Now,  as  Isay,  it's  ludicrous.  These  guys  have  nothing  and  they  don't  even  know  it.  They  don't  care.&quot;  Art:  &quot;There  was  something  under  the  hood  in  those  days-you  knew,  be-  cause  you'd  put  it  there-and  if  you  didn't  have  it,  you  kept  off  the  street  or  got  blown  out  ofthe  water  in  a  hurry.  I  had  a  full-house  Ford-four  on  the  floor,  geared  down  deep.  W  hen  you  stuck  your  foot  in  it,  she'd  lay  rubber  into  next  week.  Other  day,  I'm  coming  home  from  work  in  my  wife's  car-my  wife's  car,  this  sled-and  a  kid  pulls  up  at  the  stoplight  in  a  Ram-  bler  and  guns  it.  One  of  the  most  piti-  ful  sounds  I  ever  heard.  I  am  ready  to  weep.  Light  turns  green,  I  ooze  away  in  the  slushbox,  and  this  kid  can't  locate  first  gear.  It  makes  you  sick  to  see  it.&quot;  Us:  &quot;Why  don't  they  make  them  like  you  used  to?&quot;  Bud:  &quot;They're  lazy!  They  walk  onto  a  lot  and  say,  'Gimme  that  one,&quot;  and  that's  it.  They  drive  it  until  it  rusts  out,  and  trade  it  in,  When  we  bought  a  car,  that  was  only  the  beginning.  We'd  work  three  months  just  to  make  it  fit  to  be  seen.  On  Lake  Street,  that  is.  Of  course,  you  could  drive  anything  down  [REDACTED]  or  out  Fiftieth.  But  we're  talking  about  Lake  Street.&quot;  Art:  &quot;It's  a  matter  of  pride.  Back     then,  I'd  take  the  Ford  around  town,  wind  it  out,  listen  to  the  pipes  pop.  It  made  me  feel  good.  Like  I  had  some-  thing.  I'd  sit  down  low  in  her  and  drive  around  all  night-down  Lake  to  the  drive-in,  turn  around,  back  up  Lake  to  Excelsior  Boulevard,  turn  around,  back  down  Lake-do  that  for  hours.  Two  tanks  of  gas  in  one  night.  Nowadays,  everybody's  in  a  hurry,  They  just  want  to  get  there.  They  don't  care  how,  don't  care  what  anybody  thinks,  don't  care  how  they  look-just  get  there.  Rush,  rush,  rush.  In  our  day,  we  took  it  easy.  Up  and  back.  Up  and  back.  It  was  beautiful.&quot; "