 b"MANY  of  the  family  tombs  are  neglected.  Iron  doors  stand  ajar  rusted  into  their  quadrant  tracks,  rust  flaking  from  lower  panels  molded  with  reliefs  of  wreaths  resting  on  crossed  arrows.  Hinges  solid  as  sculpture.  Snow  of  rust  on  the  echoing  floors.  Nothing  to  steal.  Broken  vases.  Dry  flower  stalks,  held  with  green  wires.  Portable  cement  wreaths  with  the  word  REGRETs  running  around  them.  A  quiet  that  is  neither  ofthe  city  nor  of  open  country.  The  few  sounds,  such  as  the  barking  of  an  old  spoiled  dog,  seem  to  be  coming  from  farther  away  than  their  visible  sources.  Small  groups  of  people,  all  of  them  past  middle  age,  cluster  on  benches,  talking.  It  is  the  day  of  rest.  It  is  clear  that  many  of  them  meet  here  every  week,  weather  permitting,  after  visiting  the  family  tomb.  On  some  benches,  those  at  the  ends,  of  either  sex,  sit  for-  ward  and  talk  across  those  in  the  mid-  dle,  which  makes  them  all  look  as  though  they  were  laying  plans,  in  the  shade.  It  also  makes  them  broader.  They  wear  warmer  clothes  than  the  day  requires.  On  other  benches,  every-  one  sits  back  and  faces  out  across  the  walk,  toward  the  tombs,  even  when  someone  is  talking,  which  is  not  always  the  case.  One  woman,  plump  and  merry,  comes  with  a  small  bright-colored  bucket  containing  scraps  from  her  din-  ner,  which  she  feeds  to  the  cats  that  appear  at  the  sight  of  her,  like  gods.  Then  she  takes  the  bucket  to  the  fau-  cet,  rinses  it,  and  brings  back  water  for  washing  out  the  tomb.  She  keeps  a  colored  brush  behind  the  door.  She  has  dyed  red  hair  and  no  hat.  She  is  younger  than  most  of  the  others.  She  jokes  with  the  cats.  T  wo  other  women  who  have  come  with  her,  in  hats,  sit  on  a  bench  and  wait.  They  all  know  many  of  the  same  words.  Beyond  high  walls,  gray  streets  with  movie  houses  in  session,  papers  blowing  past  them  in  the  light  before  rain  in  the  afternoon.  At  the  intersections  of  the  avenues,  army  trucks  are  waiting  for  anyone.  Going  to  other  intersec-  tions.  More  trucks  come  in  along  the  avenues,  and  stop,  and  let  people  off,  and  other  people  get  on,.  The  green  cloth  sides  of  the  trucks  have  been  rolled  up  and  tied.  There  are  benches  running  from  front  to  back,  as  in  the  old  days.  'The  passengers  climb  up  steps  and  walk  along  the  benches  as  though  they  were  on  stages,  treading  the  boards,  about  to  receive  prizes,  and  some  who  are  passing  stop  and  watch.  'The  passengers  sit  facing  outward  over  the  heads  of  the  passersby.  Double  knees  all  along.  They  don't  know  the  neighbors  to  right  or  left.  Not  a  word.  Umbrellas.  They  read  papers  or  stare  at  the  glare  ofthe  avenues,  keeping  the  faces  out  of  focus,  waiting,  gazing  past  the  new  buildings  innocent  of  life.  ON  THE  MAP  N  a  part  ofthe  country  where  my  parents  lived  before  I  was  born,  thebrick  streets  are  wearing  away.  At  the  foot  of  steep  walks  often  iron  railings  remain.  Beyond  many  of  the  railings,  then  as  now,  the  river.  Out  in  the  country,  a  few  miles  from  there,  the  river  was  green.  Small  fish  full  of  sunlight  quivered  in  it  without  moving.  My  father  and  mother  went  there  on  a  Sunday  with  church  friends,  and  after  cating  they  sat  under  a  tree  at  the  edge  of  the  water,  and  someone  who  knew  them  came  with  a  folding  cameraand  they  turned  their  heads  away.  In  the  pictures,  all  rivers  are  one.  Only  the  surface  is  visible.  The  old  one-room  brick  canal  of-  fice,  which  harks  back  to  before  the  railroad,  is  closed  now.  It  is  a  comfort  to  see  itstill  standing,  unnoticed.  A  thin,  white-haired  widower,  in  starched  shirtsleeves,  collar,  and  tie,  looks  after  it,  to  occupy  the  time.  He  was  born  next  door  and  has  lived  in  that  house  all  his  life.  The  canal  passes  out  of  town  at  a  different  level  from  the  river,  with  the  railroad  track  on  one  side,  under  the  glare  of  a  pearly  sky  that  is  repeated  in  the  polished  surface.  The  canal  is  a  long  white  beam.  Light  hides  in  itself.  White  stone  steps  descend  from  the  brick  sidewalk  to  the  water  every  block  and  a  half  as  long  as  there  are  the  ends  of  gardens.  Brick  walls.  Fences.  Tall  stalks  lean  against  each  other,  late  in  summer,  on  a  Sunday,  forming  seeds.  In  the  next  town  there  is  still  a  cen-  tral  square.  There  used  to  be  a  market  there-some  sect.  But  it  was  closed,  of  course,  on  Sundays.  A  church,  in  the  square,  with  a  bell  tower.  The  marked  it  on  their  map,  which  they  kept.  After  the  railroad  turns  away,  the  canal  enters  deep  woods.  Out  there  is  the  old  college  where  they  once  talked  of  sending  me.  The  name  is  familiar,  from  the  beginning.  The  quiet  of  the  woods,  and  a  spring  coolness,  even  in  the  clearing  that  contains  the  one  large  building  and  the  smaller  ones  beyond.  Curtains  blowing  from  upper  windows.  Archers  in  the  dusk,  young  men  and  women  in  traditional  white,  hardly  speaking,  smiling,  shooting  in  turn,  one  at  a  time,  into  targets  under  the  far  trees,  and  never  missing,  while  the  dew  gathers  on  the  grass.  The  sound  of  the  "