 b"PERHAPS  no  writer  has  created  more  fascinating  and  complex  fe-  males  than  the  great  Scandinavian  playwright  Jorgen  Lovborg,  known  to  his  contemporaries  as  Jorgen  Lov-  borg.  Torturedand  embittered  by  his  agonizing  relationships  with  the  oppo-  site  sex,  he  gave  the  world  such  diverse  and  unforgettable  characters  as  Jenny  Angstrom  in  &quot;Geese  Aplenty&quot;  and  Mrs.  Spearing  in  &quot;A  Mother's  Gums.&quot;  Born  in  [REDACTED]  in  1836,  Lovborg  (originally  L\xc3\xa9&amp;vborg,  until,  in  later  years,  he  removed  the  two  dots  from  above  the  &quot;0&quot;  and  placed  them  over  his  eyebrows)  began  writing  plays  at  the  age  of  fourteen.  His  first  produced  work,  brought  to  the  stage  when  he  was  sixty-one,  was  &quot;Those  Who  Squirm,&quot;  which  drew  mixed  notices  from  the  critics,  although  the  frankness  of  the  subject  matter  (cheese  fondling)  caused  conservative  audiences  to  blush.  Lovborg's  work  can  be  divided  into  three  periods,  First  came  the  series  of  plays  dealing  with  anguish,  despair,  dread,  fear,  and  loneliness  (the  come-  dics);  the  second  group  focussed  on  social  change  (Lovborg  was  instrumen-  tal  in  bringing  about  safer  methods  of  weighing  herring);  finally,  there  were  the  six  great  tragedies  written  just  before  his  death,  in  [REDACTED],  in  1902,  when  his  nose  fell  off,  owing  to  tension.  Lovborg's  first  outstanding  female  character  was  Hedvig  Moldau  in  &quot;I  Prefer  to  Yodel,&quot;  the  playwright's  ironic  indictment  of  penmanship  among  the  upper  classes,  Hedvig  is  aware  that  Greger  Norstad  has  used  substandard  mortar  to  roof  the  hen-  house,  and  when  it  collapses  on  Klavar  Akdal,  causing  him  to  go  blind  and  bald  on  the  same  night,  she  is  racked  with  remorse.'The  obligatory  scene  follows:  Hepvic:  So-it  collapsed.  Dr.  RoruunD  (after  a  long  pause):  Yes.  It  fell  down  on  Akdal's  face.  HrepovigG  (ironically):  What  was  he  doing  in  the  henhouse?  Dr.  He  liked  the  hens.  Oh,  not  all  the  hens,  Pll  grant  you.  But  certainones.  (Significantly)  He  had  his  favorites.  Hrovic:  And  Norstad?  Where  was  he  during  the   accident?  Dr.  RoRLUND:He  smeared  his  body  with  chives  and  jumped  into  the  reservoir.  HEpyvig  (to  Aerself):  Pl  never  marry.  Dr.  Roruunp:  What's  that?  Hrpvic:  Nothing.  Come,  Doctor.  It's  time  to  launder  your  shorts  to  launder  everybody's  shorts.  .  ..  Hedvig,  one  of  the  first  really  &quot;modern&quot;  women,  can  only  sneer  when  Dr.  Rorlund  suggests  she  run  up  and  down  in  place  until  Norstad  consents  to  have  his  hat  blocked.  She  bears  close  resemblance  to  Lovborg's  own  sister  Hilda,  a  neurotic,  domi-  neering  woman  married  to  a  quick  tempered  Finnish  seaman,  who  even-  tually  harpooned  her.  Lovborg  wor-  shipped  Hilda,  and  it  was  her  influence  that  broke  him  of  the  habit  of  speak-  ing  to  his  cane.  HE  second  great  &quot;heroine&quot;  in  Lovborg's  work  appears  in  his  drama  of  lust  and  jealousy  &quot;While  We  Three  Hemorrhage.&quot;  Moltvick  Dorf,  the  anchovy  trainer,  learns  that  his  father's  unmentionable  disease  has  been  inherited  by  his  brother  Eyeo-  wulf.  Dorf  goes  to  court,  claiming  the  disease  is  rightfully  his,  but  Judge  Manders  upholds  Eyeowulf's  claim.  Netta  Holmquist,  the  beautiful  and  ar-  rogant  actress,  tries  to  persuade  Dorf  to  blackmail  Eyeowulf  by  threatening  to  tell  authorities  that  he  once  forged  a  penguin's  signature  on  some  insur-  ance  policies.  Then,  in  Act  II,  Scene  4:  Dorr:  Oh,  Netta.  All  is  lost!  Lost!  Netra:  For  a  weak  man,  perhaps,  but  not  if  one  had-courage.  Dorr:  Courage?  NETTA:  To  tell  Parson  Smathers  he  can  never  hope  to  walk  again  and  that  for  the  rest  of  his  life  he  must  skip  every  where.  Netta!  I  couldn't!  NETraA:  Hal  Of  course  not!  I  should  have  known.  Dorr:  Parson  .Smathers  trusts  Eyeowulf.  They  shared  a  piece  of  chewing  gum  once.  Yes,  before  I  was  born.  Oh,  Netta  .  ..  NETrA:  Stop  whining.  The  bank  will  never  extend  the  mortgage  on  Eveowulf's  pretzel.  And  he's  already  caten  half  of  it.  Dorr:  Netta,  what  are  you  sug-  gesting?  NETTA:  Nothing  a  thousand  wives  would  not  do  for  their  husbands.  I  mean  to  soak  Eyeowulf  in  brine.  Dorr:  Pickle  my  own  brother?  NETTa:  Why  not?  What  do  you  owe  him?  Dor\xc2\xaer:  But  such  drastic  measures!  Netta,  why  not  let  him  keep  Father's  unmentionable  disease?  Perhaps  we  could  compromise.  Perhaps  he  would  let  me  have  the  symptoms.  Netra:  Compromise,  ha!  Your  middle-class  mentality  makes  me  sick!  Oh,  Moltvick,  I'm  so  bored  by  this  marriage!  Bored  by  your  ideas,  your  ways,  your  conversations.  And  your  habitof  wearing  feathers  to  din-  ner.  Dorr:  Oh!  Not  my  feathers,  too!  NETra  (contemptuously):  I  am  going  to  tell  you  something  now  that  only  I  and  your  mother  know.  You  are  a  dwarf.  Dorr:  What?  NETTA:  Everything  in  the  house  has  been  made  to  scale.  You  are  only  forty-  eight  inches  tall.  Dorr:  Don't,  don't!  The  pains  are  returning!  NEeTrA:  Yes,  Moltvick!  Dorr:  My  kneecaps-they're  throbbing!  NETrA:  What  a  weakling.  -  Dorr:  Netta,  Netta,  open  the  shutters  ...  Netra:  ll  close  them.  Dorr:  Light!  Moltvick   nceds  light  .  ..  To  Lovborg,  Moltvick  represented  the  old,  decadent,  dying  Europe.  Net-  ta,  on  the  other  hand,  was  the  new-  the  vibrant,  cruel  Darwinian  force  of  nature,  which  was  to  blow  through  Europe  for  the  next  fifty  years  and  find  its  deepest  expression  in  the  songs  of  Maurice  Chevalier.  The  relationship  between  Netta  and  Moltvick  mirrored  Lovborg's  marriage  to  Siri  Brackman,  an  actress  who  served  as  a  constant  in-  spiration  to  him  throughout  the  eight  hours  their  marriage  lasted.  Lovborg  remarried  several  times  after  that,  but  always  to  department-store  manne-  quins.  LEARLY,  the  most  fully  realized  woman  in  all  of  Lovborg's  plays  was  Mrs.  Sanstad  in  &quot;Mellow  Pears,&quot;  Lovborg's  last  naturalistic  drama.  " b"(After  &quot;Pears,&quot;  he  experimented  with  an  Expressionist  play  in  which  all  the  characters  were  named  Lovborg,  but  it  failed  to  win  approval,  and  forthe  remaining  three  years  of  his  life  he  could  not  be  coaxed  out  ofthe  ham-  per.)  &quot;Mellow  Pears&quot;  ranks  with  his  greatest  works,  and  the  final  exchange  between  Mrs.  Sanstad  and  her  son's  wife,  Berte,  is  perhaps  more  pertinent  today  than  ever:  BrertE:  Do  say  you  like  the  way  we  furnished  the  house!  It  was  so  hard,  on  a  ventriloquist's  salary.  [REDACTED].  Sansran:  The  serviceable.  BertE:  What!  Only  serviceable?  Mrs.  SansTap:  Whose  idea  was  the  red  satin  elk?  BErtE:  Why,  your  son's.  Henrick  is  a  born  decorator.  Mrs.  Sansrap  (suddenly):  Hen-  rick  is  a  fool!  BErTE:  No!  Mrs.  SanstTap:  Did  you  know  that  he  did  not  know  what  snow  was  until  last  week?  BertE:  You're  lying!  Mrs.  Sansrap:  My  precious  son.  Yes,  Henrick-the  same  man  who  went  to  prison  for  mispronouncing  the  word  &quot;diphthong.&quot;  BERrTE:  No!  Mrs.  Sansrap:  Yes.  And  with  an  Eskimo  in  the  room  at  the  time!  house  is-  BertE:  I  don't  want  to  hear  about  it!  Mrs.  But  you  will,  my  little  nightingale!  Isn't  that  what  Henrick  calls  you?  Berte  (crying):  He  calls  me  night-  ingale!  Yes,  and  sometimes  thrush!  And  hippo!  (Both  women  weep  unashamedly  .)  Mrs.  SansraDn:  Berte,  dear  Berte!  ...  Henrick's  earmuffs  are  not  his  own!  They  are  owned  by  a  corpora-  tion,  BERrTE:  We  must  help  him.  He  must  be  told  he  can  never  fly  by  flap-  ping  his  arms.  Mrs.  Sansrap  (suddenly  laugh-  ing):  Henrick  knows  everything.  I  told  him  your  feelings  about  his  arch  supports.  BEertE:  So!  You  tricked  me!  Mrs.  Sansrap:  Call  it  what  you  will.  He's  in  Oslo  now.  BertE:  Oslo!  Mrs.  Sansran:  With  his  gera-  nium  ...  BrertE:  I  see.  I  ...see.  (She  wan-  ders  through  the  French  doors  up-  stage.)  Mrs.  Sansrap:  Yes,  my  little  night-  ingale,  he  is  out  of  your  clutches  at  last.  By  this  time  next  month,  he  will  realize  his  lifelong  dream-to  fill  his  hat  with  cinders.  And  you  thought  you'd  keep  him  cooped  up  here!  No!  Henrick  is  a  wild  creature,  a  thing  of  nature!  Like  some  wonderful  mouse--  ora  tick.  (A  shot  is  heard.  Mrs.  San-  stad  runs  into  the  next  room.  We  hear  a  scream.  She  returns,  pale  and  shak-  en.)  Dead  .  ..  She's  lucky.  I  ...  must  go  on.  Yes,  night  is  falling  .  .  .  falling  rapidly.  So  rapidly,  and  I  still  have  all  those  chickpeas  to  rearrange.  Mrs.  Sanstad  was  Lovborg's  re-  venge  on  his  mother.  Also  a  critical  woman,  she  began  life  as  a  trapeze  art-  ist  with  the  circus;  his  father,  Nis  Lovborg,  was  the  human  cannonball  The  two  met  in  midair  and  were  mar  ried  before  touching  ground.  Bitter-  ness  slowly  crept  into  the  marriage,  and  by  the  time  Lovborg  was  six  years  old  his  parents  exchanged  gunfire  daily.  This  atmosphere  took  its  toll  on  a  sen-  sitive  youngster  like  Jorgen,  and  soon  he  began  to  sufferthe  first  of  his  fa-  mous&quot;moods&quot;  and  &quot;anxieties,&quot;  ren-  dering  him  for  some  years  unable  to  pass  a  roast  chicken  without  tipping  his  hat.  In  later  years,  he  told  friends  that  he  was  tense  all  during  the  writing  of  &quot;Mellow  Pears&quot;  and  on  several  occa-  sions  believed  he  heard  his  mother's  voice  asking  him  directions  to  Staten  Island. "