 b" IT\xe2\x80\x99S  always  a  temptation  to  second-guess  a  team  and  say  where  it  went  wrong,  but  it's  been  my  philosophy  not  to  kick  a  man  when  he's  down  and  that  goes  for  the  Flyers,  not  that  it  wouldn't  be  easy  to  fault  this  playeror  that  after  losing  so  many  games  this  year.  I  know  it's  considered  smart  in  some  circles  to  criticize  the  Dutchman  for  letting  the  younger  ballplayers  &quot;get  away  with  murder&quot;  who  some  say  didn't  have  much  so-called  desire,  but  the  season  is  over  and  I  say,  &quot;Next  year  means  new  opportunities  for  per-  sonal  growth.  Let's  rebuild  in  a  spirit  of  optimism.&quot;  In  the  meantime,  per-  haps  I  could  make  some  constructive  comments  about  the  past  season  as  one  who  knows  the  team  well,  having  worked  with  the  fellows  on  a  one-to-  one  and  group  basis  as  manager  since  Dutch  moved  up  to  general  manager  after  the  4th  of  July  doubleheader  against  Pierce,  First,  a  word  to  the  fans.  As  Dutch  pointed  out  last  spring,the  Flyers  only  needed  confidence  in  themselves  to  suc-  ceed.  I  felt  that  they  might've  done  so  had  the  Flyer  fans  shown  some  pa-  tience,  adopted  a  quietly  supportive  role,  and  not  demanded  instant  victo-  ries.  Instead,  after  a  few  defeats  they  became  bitter.  They  booed  every  mis-  take  however  unwitting,  in  effect  send-  ing  the  players  the  message  &quot;You  are  not  O.K.  You  are  bums.&quot;  By  the  time  I  arrived,  the  players  were  uncertain  whether  they  could  play  ball  at  all.  Since  then,  we  have  made  some  progress  in  talking  out  these  problems.  Perhaps  if  the  fans  got  to  know  us  a  little  better,  they  could  join  us  next  year  in  a  help-  ful  partnership  for  dynamic  change.  That  is  the  purpose  of  this  article.  PITCHINGI  It  was  obvious  to  every-  one  that  the  pitching  was  not  as  hard  as  it  should've  been  this  year.  Fans  were  quick  to  blame  laziness  or  overweight.  But  after  working  with  the  pitchers  in  intensive  group  sessions  we  found  that  all  suffered  to  some  extent  from  what  we  have  come  to  call  &quot;pitcher's  block.&quot;  Convinced  thatthe  ball  would  be  hit  anyway,  they  uncon-  sciously  &quot;took  something  off  it&quot;  (the  pitch)  in  delivery.  Typical  was  one  right-hander  whom  I'll  call  &quot;Phil&quot;:  Pir:  They  have  always  hit  my  knuckleball,  At  first  I  thought  I  was  bringing  my  right  leg  over  too  far  and  dropping  the  elbow.  But  now  I  realize  I'm  withdraw-  ing  from  the  pitch-actually  bringing  both  hands  up  in  front  of  my  face  to  avoid  seeing  it-and  I  don't  get  a  good  follow-through  that  way.  I  guess  secretly  I've  always  felt  the  knuckler  was  an  old  man's  pitch  and  hesitated  throwing  it.  The  hesitation  threw  my  timing  way  off.  I  guess  the  answer  is  to  accept  that  I  am  39  and  can't  reach  back  forthe  old  fast-  ball  anymore.  If  I  do,  I  tend  to  fall  off  the  mound.  After  talking  with  the  pitchers,  we  agreed  that  pitching  less  hard  was  their  way  of  punishing  themselves  for  past  losses  and  perpetuating  their  self-im-  age  as  &quot;bad&quot;  pitchers.  We  agreed  that  this  was  childish  behavior,  and  we  tried  to  write  a  new  scenario,  or  game  plan,  in  which  the  umpire  was  cast  in  the  role  of  persecutor  and  a  hard  pitch  in  the  strike  zone  would  &quot;hurt&quot;  him.  Unfortunately,  we  did  not  include  the  catcher  (whom  Pll  call  &quot;Mil?  )  in  these  sessions.  Milt  felt  that  the  hard  pitches  were  aimed  at  him  personally  and  unconsciously  tried  to  &quot;escape&quot;  from  them,  which  resulted  in  many  passed  balls.  Later,  after  I  benched  him  and  we  had  more  opportunity  to  talk,  I  learned  that  Milt's  father  had  forced  him  into  a  catching  role  when  he  was  quite  young;  that  Milt  caught  his  father's  pitching  in  the  driveway  for  practice,  and  whenever  the  boy  made  a  mistake  his  father  indicated  disapproval  by  throwing  harder;  that  Milt  inter-  preted  this  as  an  attack  on  his  masculin-  ity,  which  he  came  to  feel  was  passive  and  precarious  and  had  to  be  defended  from  a  crouch  and,  in  the  case  of  very  hard  pitches,  by  dodging  to  the  side.  With  more  counselling  and  perhaps  more  protective  equipment,  I  feel  that  Milt  can  make  a  real  contribution  next  year.  HIT\xe2\x80\x99I\xe2\x80\x98INGZ  Once  again,the  problem  was  obvious  to  everyone:  Flyer  hitting  was  consistently  weak.  But  rather  than  look  for  the  cause  of  the  weakness,  fans  merely  complained  that  the  batters  didn't  &quot;stand  up  to  the  pitcher&quot;  and  took  too  many  called  strikes.  We  wanted  to  get  the  players'  view  ofthe  situation,  and  so  we  asked  each  one  to  draw  a  picture  of  the  way  things  looked  to  him  when  he  came  up  to  bat.  The  pictures  were  very  interesting.  One  drawing,  which  was  typical  of  the  rest,  showed  the  batter  hiding  in  a  deep  hole  and  the  opposing  pitcher  towering  over  him  from  the  top  of  a  nearby  hill  (the  mound).  The  entire  field  was  up-  hill  from  the  batter  and  the  bases  in  the  far  distance  were  hundreds  of  yards  apart.  This  drawing  was  entitled  &quot;Safe  at  Home,&quot;  which  was  just  the  clue  we  needed.  Apparently,  the  batters  did  feel  safer  at  home  plate  (perhaps  by  the  very  implication  of  its  name)  even  if  they  were  somewhat  uncomfort-     " b"able.  One  player  (&quot;Fred&quot;)  expressed  his  feelings  in  a  poem  :  The  baseball  flies  straight  At  me.  Heavy  shoes  are  stuck.  How  can  I  get  out?  Obviously,  this  player  does  not  mind  being  &quot;in  the  hole.&quot;  He  would  rather  be  there  and  then  be  &quot;called  out&quot;  than  take  his  chances  on  the  base  paths,  where  hecould  be  &quot;thrown  out,&quot;  &quot;picked  off,&quot;  caught  in  a  &quot;squeeze,&quot;  or  even  &quot;stranded.&quot;  Unfortunately,  I  tried  to  meet  these  fears  head  on  rather  than  work  around  them.  I  told  the  players  they  must  &quot;guard&quot;  home  plate,  which  would  be  &quot;wounded&quot;  by  strike  balls,  by  striking  back  at  the  pitches,  and  that  they  could  prevent  the  bat  from  swinging  and  miss-  ingby  &quot;choking&quot;  it.  Thisapproach  failed.  If  a  hitter  got  one  strike  against  him,  he  felt  that  home  plate  Aad  been  hurt  and  couldn't  be  hurt  much  more  by  two  ad-  ditional  strikes.  And  the  ideaof  reward-  ing  base  hits  with  positive  strokes  by  the  first-base  coach-it  just  didn't  work  be-  cause  the  players  who  most  needed  this  reinforcement  never  got  to  first  base.  Next  year,  if  the  fans  will  help  us  create  a  less  stressful  environment  at  the  ballpark,  I  believe  it  will  help  give  the  hitters  a  better  perspective  of  the  field  and  their  relation  to  it.  IELDING:  The  rural  setting  of  Hay  Stadium  has  been,  on  the  whole,  relaxing  and  beneficial,  but  its  use  during  the  week  as  a  feedlot  and  pas-  ture  has  resulted  in  an  uneven  play-  ing  surface,  especially  demoralizing  for  the  infielders.  However,  not  all  errors  were  due  to  bad  hops.  Infielders  spoke  of  the  ball  having  &quot;eyes&quot;  and  seeking  holes  through  which  to  bounce  for  base  hits.  And,  while  they  believed  they  could  not  reach  the  ball,  they  were  also  fearful  of  it  hitting  them,  an  apparent  contradiction.  It  seemed  pointless  to  berate  players  for  mistakes  that  stemmed  from  deep-  seated  attitudes,  to  tell  them  to  respond  to  grounders  logically  and  not  emotion-  ally,  and  so  we  instituted  a  program  of  simple  infield  exercises  stressing  body  awareness.  Working  without  a  batter  or  ball  and  simply  concentrating  on  movement,  the  infielders  practiced  graceful  fielding  and  throwing  motions,  making  impossible  catches  and  throw-  ing  accurately  while  off  balance.  Some  have  come  along  faster  than  others,  but  at  least  toward  the  end  of  the  season  there  was  more  action  in  the  infield,  more  fluidity,  more  lateralness,  and  fewer  instances  of  players  standing  in  position  and  throwing  a  glove  at  the  ball  as  it  bounded  by.  Ironically,  as  other  players  improved,  the  outfielders  seemed  to  become  dis-  tant  and  moody  and  to  feel  resentful  toward  balls  hit  to  them.  Previously,  the  low  standard  of  play  in  the  infield  had  given  them  a  pleasurable  feelingof  superiority:  &quot;The  infielders  might  miss  grounders,  but  we  don't,  even  if  we  do  drop  a  few  flies!&quot;  Now,  with  crisper  infield  play  and  better  pitching,  the  out-  fielders  were  left  with  less  to  occupy  their  time.  They  tended  to  withdraw  from  the  game  and  to  feel  that  we  were  expecting  too  much  of  them.  &quot;Jmimy&quot;:  I  love  baseball  and  I  love  being  in  the  outfield.  It's  very  relaxing.  But  then-  bang!-there's  a  fly  ball  and  everyone's  yelling  &quot;It's  yours,  it's  yours&quot;  and  sud-  denly  I'm  expected  to  perform  wonders.  Catching  a  high  fly  looksa  lot  easier  than  it  really  is,  especially  when  you  real-  ize  that  if  you  do  catch  it,  it's  nothing,  an  &quot;easy  out,&quot;  but  if  you  drop  it  you're  a  bum.  People  sitting  in  the  bleachers  look-  ing  at  you  and  yelling  and  throwing  stuff  over  the  fence-I'm  sick  of  it!  I'm  sick  of  being  treated  like  ananimal  in  the  zoo!  Perhaps,  I  thought,  we  do  tend  to  bru-  talize  outfielders.  We  speak  of  a  good  one  as  being  &quot;fast  as  a  gazelle&quot;  or  hav-  ing  &quot;the  eyesof  a  hawk&quot;  or  &quot;an  arm  like  a  rifle,&quot;  and  talk  in  terms  of  out-  fielding  instinct,  rather  than  outfelding  intelligence  and  wit  and  creativity.  Per-  haps  itis  time  we  became  more  aware  that  each  player,  whatever  his  strengths  or  weaknesses  on  the  field,  has  many  fine  attributesas  a  person,.  Perhaps  we  should  begin  by  recognizing  those  at-  tributes  and  reinforcing  self-esteem  rather  than  concentrating  entirely  on  a  player's  faults.  Take  &quot;Bill,&quot;  for  instance.  For  weeks,  we  hassled  him  for  his  mistakes  at  third  base,  trying  to  force  him  into  the  mold  of  a  Brooks  Robinson  or  a  Harmon  Killebrew  and  giving  him  no  credit  for  his  friendly,  outgoing  attitude  and  his  concern  for  others  and  willing,  ness  to  offer  helpful  advice  to  other  play-  ers  even  as  his  own  game  suffered.  In  ef-  fect,  we  were  telling  him,  &quot;You're  not  O.K.  You're  just  a  player  and  not  even  a  very  good  one.  You  bobble  easy  ones  and  you  swing  like  an  oldlady.  You  bat  ninth  today,  buddy.&quot;  Last  week,  I  came  to  a  decision.  Itold  Bill,  &quot;'You  are  O.K.  You're  my  manager  for  next  year,  and  you'll  make  a  darn  good  one.  You've  got  good  ideas  and  you're  a  darn  good  communicator.  Good  luck.&quot;  So  Bill  will  handle  the  day-to-day  decisions,  and  I'll  be  general  manager  and  devote  more  time  to  the  over-all  outlook  ofthe  team.  Dutch  has  been  a  good  general  manager  and  we  owe  a  lot  to  him,  and  I  feel  he'll  make  an  excellent  president. "