 b"I  HAVE  often  wondered  why  there seem  to  be  so  few  people  who  re-  member  the  historic  [REDACTED]  fire  of  fifty-one  years  ago,  in  which  in  two  hours'  time  sixty  entire  city  blocks  rose  to  the  sky  in  smoke.  The  explanation  is  simple.  People  have  not  forgotten;  they  have  merely  grown  old  and  died.  I  myself,  by  no  means  young,  am  yet  young  enough  to  have  been  in  Berke-  ley  on  that  ugly  day  and  still  be  alive  to  recall  vividly  the  hot  wind,  the  fear,  and  the  hell  of  the  occasion.  My  moth-  er  and  I  had  recently  come  from  the  well-moistened  Middle  West  and  knew  nothing  about  the  tinderlike  character  of  our  new  environment.  The  fire  of  that  seventeenth  of  September  was  the  first  conflagration  of  a  landscape  we  had  ever  seen,  and  its  speed  and  pro-  portions,  as  well  as  the  possibility  of  its  occurrence  at  all,  were  as  unexpected  to  us  as  a  tidal  wave  would  have  been  in  the  front  yard.  Those  catastrophic  hours  came  to  an  end  just  as  the  fire-  fighters  were  about  to  blowup  build-  ings  along  Hearst  Avenue,  at  the  north  edge  of  the  campus.  The  wind  re-  versed  and  drove  the  flames  back  over  the  ashes,  where  nothing  remained  to  burn,  and  the  firemen  laid  down  their  dynamite.  Because  of  certain  bizarre  and  poi-  gnant  circumstances,  the  fire  held  for  my  mother  and  me  an  anguish  beyond  the  scope  of  public  tragedy,  and,  as  the  anniversary  ofthe  day  approaches,  I  feel  stirred  to  set  down  my  memories.  Indeed,  for  all  these  fifty-one  years  I  have  thought  them  worth  setting  down.  My  account  is  obviously  not  the  one  to  be  found  in  newspapers  ofthat  date,  vet  itis  a  true  report.  For  it  to  be  complete,  however,  it  must  begin  long  before  the  fire  itself,  with  a  suggestion  of  what  kind  of  people  we  were  and  why  we  were  in  [REDACTED]  in  the  first  place.  It  must  include  the  memories  of  material  things  having  no  relation  to  the  fire  ex-  cept  their  endurance  of  its  destruction  but  retaining  for  me  a  visible  shape  that  still  escapes  from  under  the  black  weight  of  shock  and  loss  that  fell  on  two  frantic  women  that  blazing  day.  In  the  summer  of  1915,  my  mother  had  come  West  to  the  famous  Panama-Pacific  Interna-  tional  Exposition  of  San  Francisco.  She  brought  me  with  her,the  youngest  of  three  daughters,  my  curls,  because  of  her  loving  belief  in  my  ever-extant  childhood,  worn  long,  though  I  was  sixteen.  We  stayed  in  [REDACTED].  The  exhilara-  tion  of  the  43616e616461region,  the  presence  of  the  university,  which,  it  was  imme-  diately  surmised,  I  should  someday  at-  tend,  and,  most  important,  the  thrill-  ing  white-stone  lure  of  the  Greek  Thea-  tre  on  the  campus  combined  to  bring  us  back  seven  years  later.  The  Greek  Theatre  is  built  of  concrete,  not  stone,  and  the  effect  is  gray,  not  white,  but  I  am  sure  that  awhite  stone  amphitheatre  among  odorous  eucalyptus  trees  where  celebrated  men  and  women  of  the  stage  were  as  thick  as  blue  jays  was  the  image  that  meant  [REDACTED]  to  my  mother  and  drew  her  to  the  Coast.  In  her  childhood,  Mary  Ellen  Hock-  ett,  at  the  top  of  a  tall  shaking  ladder,  had  nervously  but  rapturously  played  the  part  of  Little  Eva  entering  Heaven  just  under  the  rafters  of  a  small-town  school.  That  first  glorious  view  into  the  fascination  of  the  actor's  world  was  the  beginning  of  much  that  followed  in  her  life,  and  in  mine  as  well.  She  was  born  Quaker,  a  birthright  that  would  be  no  hindrance  today  to  involvement  with  the  stage  but  in  her  time  meant  a  vari-  ety  of  rich  and  worthy  sorts  of  guilt  to  afflict  her-at  least,  now  and  then.  Fortunately,  because  she  was  talented  and  lovely  to  look  at,  her  vanity  often  saved  her  from  the  influence  of  her  conscience.  The  luminous  tragedians,  the  delightful  fantasy-makers  of  the  theatre  were  her  idols,  and  in  our  home  the  impressive  names  of  Mrs.  Siddons,  Irving,  Maude  Adams,  Alla  Nazimova  were  more  familiar  than  the  names  of  patriots  or  dull  characters  from  the  Bible.  The  excitements  of  hope,  the  hard  continuity  of  work,  the  momen-  tary  flash  of  success,  and  the  darkness  of  failure-these  are  the  facts  of  life  in  the  amateur  as  well  as  the  profes-  sional  theatre,  and  they  were  the  first  facts  of  life  I  learned  as  a  child,  not  from  my  own  life  but  from  my  moth-  er's.  She  was  eventually  one  of  the  founders  of  the  Little  Theatre  move-  ment,  one  of  its  proudest  slaves.  As  an  actress,  she  gave,  among  other  roles,  touching  and  poetic  performances  of  Deirdre  and  Kathleen  ni  Houlihan.    She  was  a  good  director,  and  behind  the  scenes  she  could,  with  a  pin  and  two  lengths  of  tulle,  save  the  world  for  a  quivering  Titania  who  had  for-  gotten  her  wings  in  a  taxicab.  She  was  a  religious  woman  whose  true  vocation  was  the  theatre.  It  was  Heaven  to  her,  and  she  gave  it  pure  and  serious  vener-  ation  to  her  last  days,  when  she  sat  dy-  ing  and  crocheting  and  working  on  one-act  plays  never  to  be  produced.  In  the  year  1922,  it  could  have  surprised  no  one-least  of  all  my  mother-that,  my  father  being  dead  and  my  sisters  gone  to  careers  of  music  and  writing  in  New  York  and  [REDACTED],  she  had  fallen  easily  and  contentedly  to  the  temptation  of  selling  her  home,  seeing  her  goods  into  a  freight  train,  and,  in  a  spirit  that  might  be  described  as  adventurous  cau-  tion,  crossing  the  continent  to  return  to  the  city  that  held  the  renowned  Greek  Theatre.  OMING  back  to  [REDACTED]  to  stay,  my  mother  purchased  a  small  two-story  house  in  the  northern,  hilly  part  of  [REDACTED].  Like  so  many  dwell-  ings  there,  it  was  covered  with  red-  wood  shingles.  It  was  well  designed,  spacious  and  useful  for  its  size,  and  very  good  for  two  people  intimately  con-  cerned  with  each  other.  To  my  mother  I  was,  and  was  to  become  more  so,  the  main  consolation  in  her  widowhood,  while  to  me  her  subtle,  silent,  and  self-  effacing  need  for  compliance  and  ami-  ability  was  a  claim  never  to  be  denied.  A  half  century  ago,  this  was  a  common  enough  mother-daughter  relationship.  An  engaging,  well-composed  little  house  was  just  the  place  to  enclose  our  daily  life  of  manners  and  de-  vouring  affection.  'The  house  sat  up  from  the  street  on  Euclid  Avenue,  with  a  stone  retaining  wall  and  a  row  of  pepper  trees  in  front.  It  was  nicely  served  by  a  small  streetcar  that  bound-  ed  past  not  too  often.  My  mother  had  the  trim  on  her  house  painted  the  color  of  jade.  It  was  a  conspicuous  and  rather  lighthearted  decoration,  but  per-  haps  the  new  owner  needed  to  pro-  vide  evidence  to  herself  of  confidence,  apt  as  she  was  to  be  caught  be-  tween  an  impulse  of  freedom  and  startled  amazement  at  what  she  had  done.  At  the  corner  near  our  house  was  one  designed  by  the  architect  Bernard  Maybeck,  who  had  created  the  Palace  of  Fine  Arts  at  the  Exposition-a  mem-  orable  example  of  romance  and  exalted  unreality  fit  to  uplift  visit-  ing  spirits  free  for  a  while  from  mundane  lives,  and  even  meant  to  inspire  the  mind  of  the  West,  fascinated  more  and  more  by  its  " b"own  domain  and  destiny.  Beyond  us  in  the  other  direction  and  adjoining  our  place  was  a  vacant  lot,  perhaps  a  hun-  dred  feet  wide,  containing  only  weeds  and  grass  and  of  no  interest,  though  later  to  become  of  tremendous  impor-  tance  to  us.  We  were  to  live  in  this  house  and  [REDACTED]  of  the  university  and  the  Greek  Theatre  for  one  year.  That  one  year  was  rich  in  the  drama  for  my  mother-Ibsen,  Moli\xc3\xa9re,  Shaw,  Dun-  sany,  Browning,  Shakespeare,  Maeter-  linck,  Yeats,  Sophocles,  Euripides;  Margaret  Anglin  declaiming  the  sor-  rowful,  flashing  words  of  Phaedra  to  the  stars  and  the  hard  seats  of  con-  crete.  My  mother's  flight  to  the  West  was  justified.  During  our  brief  occu-  pancy,  her  old  American  cherry  and  mahogany  furniture  sat  becomingly  in  the  new  home,  with  various  oil  paint-  ings  of  Midwestern  meadows  and  the  usual  soft,  dreaming  cows,  of  sunsets  through  bare  purple  trees,  a  copy  of  Anton  Mauve's  tired  walk  home  after  the  day's  work,  and,  above  the  fire-  place,  a  fierce  and  moody  seascape.  A  dirty,  melancholy  rain  always  seemed  just  about  to  pour  from  it,  and  some  practical  critic  had  once  suggested  put-  ting  a  bucket  under  it.  Also  in  the  [REDACTED]  living  room  and  giving  it  the  true  feeling  of  being  our  home  was  a  carved  rosewood  parlor  set  of  sofa  and  chairs  bought  in  New  Orleans  when  our  family  spent  the  winter  there.  It  was  upholstered  in  green  brocaded  horsehair,  and  from  my  youngest  days  I  was  obsessively  attached  to  it,  haunted  by  an  eerie  faith  in  green  horses.  A  choice  pedestal  table  that  had  a  secret  drawer,  an  inlaid  settee,  a  tall  secretary,  and  Oriental  rugs  gave  to  my  mother's  living  room  the  appearance  typical  of  many  American  homes  in  those  days,  when  taste  and  very  little  money  could  acquire  what  used  tobe  quite  ordinary  treasures  and  are  today  costly  antiques.  Because  we  were  so  fond  of  them,  they  seemed  to  offer  our  own  courtesy  to  anyone  who  entered  the  house.  Like  most  families  who  make  a  move,  we  brought  with  usthings  that  could  more  sensibly  have  been  left  be-  hind  or  more  luckily  lost  en  route.  The  masterpiece  of  foul  weather  was  one  of  them.  Also  two  barrels  of  despised  hand-painted  china,  which  made  the  trip  without  a  crack  or  chip.  &quot;If  they  should  ever  come  to  visit  us,&quot;  my  mother,  while  packing,  had  said  in  one  of  the  resonantwhispers  often  heard  in  our  home,  &quot;how  could  I  explain  if  I  left  it  all  behind?&quot;  (She  had  perfected  for  theatrical  use  the  best  and  loudest  stage  whisper  in  the  [REDACTED]  As  a  young  person,  I  was  frequently  mortified  by  it  in  public  at  weddings,  funerals,  and  graduations,  cowering  at  her  accom-  plishment.)  We  were  alone,  but  the  future  possibilities  ofa  visit  from  china-  painting  relatives  could  not  be  over-  looked.  The  whisper  was  resonant  with  conscience.  The  aunt  and  cousin,  two  compulsive  craftswomen  from  whose  fingers  a  thousand  wild  roses,  Parma  violets,  pure  lilies,  and  many  a  twining  species  much  evolved  through  hybrid-  izing  with  gold  scallops  flowed  and  flowed  upon  Limoges,  were  thus  pla-  cated,  and  their  dreadful  dainty  works  went  West  to  a  dark  shelf.  In  [REDACTED]  there  were  few  prep-  " b"arations  against  the  cold,  andnone  in  our  house  except  a  fireplace.  My  mother  installed  a  newly  invented  and  nearly  unvented  gas  wall  heater,  which,  reliable  exterminator  though  it  should  have  been,  failedto  asphyxiate  us.  As  it  made  a  vile  odor  and  gave  a  miserly  and  clammy  warmth,  we  de-  pended  mainly  on  coal-oil  stoves  for  heat.  These  were  unique  substitutes  for  household  warmth,  promising  much  but  requiring  faith  as  well  as  fuel.  They  operated  like  old-fashioned  lamps,  the  oil  being  contained  in  a  large  can  with  a  wick,  while  the  flue,  instead  of  being  glass,  was  metal  and  radiated  a  feeble  heat.  About  three  feet  high,  they  could  bewarily  transported  by  means  of  a  bail.  They  rested  on  or-  nate  bases.  These  heaters  we  used  up-  stairs,  and  the  supply  of  coal  oil  was  kept  in  a  ten-gallon  can  in  a  storeroom  under  the  eaves.  My  mother  regarded  the  entire  arrangement  as  very  danger-  ous.  It  may  well  have  been.  In  any  case,  we  frequently  spent  our  days  blue  with  cold  and  left  the  stoves  unlighted.  Even  unlighted,  they  stirred  my  moth-  er's  suspicions,  and  the  ten-gallon  can  with  its  inflammable  contents  caused  her  real  anxiety,  especially  in  warm  weather  when  the  sun  beat  on  the  roof  close  above.  HE  seventeenth  of  September  was  a  hot,  dry  day.  At  midmorning,  the  wind  blew  heavily  from  inland,  the  air  was  too  clear,in  exaggerated  visibility,  for  the  eye's  comfort,  while  thebig  tea-colored  hills  of  [REDACTED]  appeared  about  to  rise  and  float.  My  mother  was  busy  pouring  boiling  water  down  an  ant  hole  in  the  front  yard.  We  thought  the  ants  were  disturbed  by  the  weather.  Perhaps  it  was  premonition  that  had  sent  them  streaming  up.  I  think  I  was  upset  by  my  mother's  good-housekeep-  ing  deed.  Still,  the  ants  were  too  close  to  the  house,  they  were  too  large-  they  were  enormous-and  once  inside  the  house  and  in  the  white  sugar  they  would  be  even  blacker,  larger.  It  was  between  noon  and  one  o'clock  that  we  became  aware  of  the  scent  of  smoke  coming  from  the  eucalyptus  groves  on  the  hills  above  us.  Burning  eucalyptus  makes  itself  known  long  be-  fore  it  is  seen.  We  went  intothe  house,  leaving  the  ants  to  their  scrambling  and  rushing,  but  soon  came  out  to  try  the  air  again.  The  odor  was  stronger  now  and  the  smoke  was  visible.  Then  more  and  more  visible.  At  first,  we  watched  it  as  something  that  could  have  noth-  ing  to  do  with  us.  Next,  we  became  curious.  There  was  a  fire  station  not  far  away  around  the  corner  on  Buena  Vista  Way-a  fire  station  to  which  my  mother  had  referred  lightly,  even  facetiously,  when  purchasing  her  home,  as  warrant  against  danger  should  there  ever  bea  fire.  Almost  out  of  protective  superstition,  as  if  to  say  that  loss  should  not  be  challenged,  she  carried  a  very  low  insurance.  As  the  smoke  increased,  we  decided  to  make  inquiries.  I  walked  around  the  corner  to  the  Buena  Vista  station.  It  was  empty,  both  of  men  and  of  equipment.  The  smoke  was  now  thick,  the  odor  also.  Yet  even  in  our  growing  surprise,  such  was  our  lack  of  sense  that  we  were  not  impressed  by  the  threat  of  danger.  We  were  living  in  a  city.  In  a  city  we  must  be  safe  from  the  violence  of  nature.  &quot;If  anything  is  wrong,&quot;  said  my  mother,  with  a  typical  respect  for  offi-  cial  procedure,  &quot;we  would  certainly  be  informed.&quot;  She  continued  to  apply  water  from  the  kitchen  teakettle  down  the  ant  hole.  What-  ever  warning  might  have  been  sent  out  later,  our  own  neighborhood  received  no  notice  other  than  the  sight  of  smoke  and  the  hot  smell  of  burning  eucalyptus  that  a  major  brushfire  was  descending  on  us  with  vi-  cious  speed.  I  cannot  remember  why  I  was  at  home  instead  of  attending  some  of  my  classes,  as  I  cannot,  after  so  many  years,  remember  how  long  it  was  be-  fore  we  seriously  took  alarm  and  gave  in  to  the  nervousness  that  had  begun  to  overwhelm  us.  Less  than  an  hour.  &quot;Mother,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;why  don't  we  stop  pouring  water  down  the  ant  hole  and  pour  a  little  on  the  house?&quot;  At  this  naive  suggestion,  my  mother  ran  to  the  garden  hose  and  turned  it  on.  A  weak  trickle  came  from  the  nozzle.  Was  everyone  else  wringing  water  from  his  hose?  Was  everyone  else  hit  by  the  same  fright  that  had  just  hit  us?  Toward  the  hilltop  we  could  see  the  smoke  darkening.  &quot;But  really  it's  a  long  way  off,&quot;  I  said,  and  wondered  how,  if  that  were  true,  it  could  look  so  near.  And  now  the  old  established  patterns  of  mind  began  to  work  in  my  mother  un-  der  the  pressure  that  had  seized  her.  Her  origins  took  over.  Her  years  of  worldliness  had  weakened  but  not  bro-  ken  the  link  in  her  Quaker  inheritance.  Conscience  was  what  my  mother  had  been  upheld  by  or  held  together  byor  afflicted  by.  In  my  childhood,  I  was  aware  of  tension,  a  sprain,  a  sorespot  in  her  being-a.  spiritual  location  in  which  this  noble  and  bothersome  ele-  ment  in  her  life  made  itself  too  large  for  ease  and  could  not  be  reduced  or  soothed.  As  the  fire  gathered  above  us,  my  mother's  Quaker  conscience  became  sharp  and  authoritative.  She  seized  the  water  hose  once  again,  but  no  water  at  all  came  from  it.  &quot;Of  course  nothing  " b"will  happen,&quot;  she  said  in  a  shaking  voice.  &quot;But  if  anything  should  happen  I  don't  want  my  house  to  endanger  the  houses  around  us.&quot;  Just  then  a  fire  engine  thundered  past  our  house.  Its  bright  color  and  its  sound  were  ter-  rifying.  She  dropped  the  hose.  &quot;That  can  of  coal  oil!&quot;  she  cried.  My  mother's  nerves  exploded  into  disorder  that  had  only  one  purpose-to  get  the  ten  gallons  ofcoal  oil  out  of  the  house  and  into  the  middle  of  the  large  vacant  lot,  where  it  would  not  be  a  menace  to  our  next-door  neighbor.  By  now  we  were  convinced  that  al-  though  we  would  not  say,  &quot;'The  fire  is  coming,&quot;  we  must  act  as  though  we  knew  it  was  almost  there.  Theman  who  sold  coal  oil  had  always  carried  the  can  upstairs,  and  it  was  awkward  and  unwieldy.  Stumbling  in  fear  and  haste,  together  Mother  and  I  thumped  and  urged  it  down  the  stairs,  then  down  the  porch  steps,  and  dragged  it  between  us  into  the  middle  of  the  vacant  lot.  For  fifty  years,  how  bitterly  I  have  wished  that  we  had  used  the  precious  time  in  saving  a  few  objects  that  were  dear  to  us.  But  the  act  of  saving  personal  treasures  was  beyond  us.  It  was  as  if  they  were  already  destroyed,  rising  in  particle  on  the  wind.  The  struggle  between  certainty  and  disbelief  in  the  possibility  of  disas-  ter  was  so  intense  that  our  minds  were  suddenly  empty  of  meaning  or  judg-  ment-hysterically  empty.  We  did  not  believe  in  what  we  were  doing  but  did  it  fanatically.  At  the  same  time  we  had  no  feeling  that  we  were  real.  We  had  no  dimensions-only  articulated  fearthat  lifted  us  up  the  stairs  once  more.  We  dressed  with  quick,  chilly  hands  to  leave  the  house.  I  had  a  pair  of  new  red  slippers  and  a  new  dress  just  back  from  the  dressmaker,  a  silk  crepe  withfaggoted  seams.  These  lay  on  the  bed,  and  I  got  into  them  in  frantic  haste.  Then  I  shoved  a  black  straw  hat  on  my  head.  For  a  desperate,  magnified  moment  I  looked  around  my  bedroom.  &quot;Don't  burn!&quot;  I  begged  the  old  spool  bed  and  the  pretty  little  sewing  table.  For  a  few  endless  sec-  onds  I  filled  my  eyes  with  things  I  loved.  &quot;Don't  burn!&quot;  Icried.  &quot;Don't  burn!&quot;  As  we  left  the  house,  the  wind  blew  my  hat  away  and  carried  it  out  of  sight.  This  was  the  fire's  own  wind,  hated  and  feared  by  firefighters.  It  had  taken  my  hat  like  alarge  cocoon.  We  waited  in  frenzy  for  the  little  streetcar  and  became  convinced  that  it  was  not  running.  My  mother  hailed  two  boys  in  an  automobile  heading  downhill,  who  took  us  to  the  bank  on  Shattuck  Avenue-a  trip  of  not  more  than  ten  minutes-and  from  there  she  called  the  next-door  neighbor  and  asked  for  news,  &quot;Your  house  is  on  fire!&quot;  the  wom-  an  screamed.  &quot;Let  me  go!  Let  me  get  my  silver!  Goodbye!  Goodbye!&quot;  I  have  always  wondered  what  did  she  do  with  the  telephone  receiver  atthat  moment.  Replace  it,  drop  it,  throw  it?  Did  she  save  her  silver?  Was  hers  as  nice  as  my  mother's?  We  both  sank  down  on  a  bench  and  tried  to  realize  what  was  happening  to  us.  Then  we  walked  to  the  door  of  the  bank  and  looked  up  at  the  increas-  ing  smoke.  Only  smoke.  No  flames  could  as  yet  be  seen.  Up  there,  hidden  in  turmoil  and  destruction,  our  home  was  burning.  Up  there,  deep  in  smoke  and  terrible  heat,  our  home  was  being  consumed,  and  only  just  now  we  had  walked  out  the  front  door  and  in  no  time  at  all  the  house  was  burning  and  all  our  possessions  were  burning  and  the  smoke  rose  thickly  in  huge  malign  puffs.  The  bank  doorman  stood  with  us,  looking  up.  &quot;I  guess  the  whole  town  will  go,&quot;  he  said.  The  insane  speed  of  our  departure,  the  insane  speed  of  the  developing  fire,  and  the  insane  unreality  of  being  wit-  ness  to  the  holocaust  made  the  few  39  words  sound  lucid,  even  sensible,  in  the  midst  of  delirium.  &quot;I  guess  it  surely  will,&quot;  he  repeated.  We  stood  at  the  door,  looking  and  looking,  sombrely,  quietly.  &quot;What  caused  it?&quot;  we  finally  asked.  &quot;A  power  line  blew  down  and  started  a  grass  fire.  Back  in  Wildcat  Canyon.&quot;  &quot;That  doesn't  sound  like  much,&quot;  my  mother  said  ignorantly.  &quot;Not  much  to  begin  with,&quot;  he  answered,  watching  the  rolling  smoke  steadily,  &quot;but  by  now  it's  what  you  can  see-only  a  lot  more  than  you  can  $680),  My  mother  had  snatched  up  some  kind  of  document  before  we  left  the  house,  perhaps  her  nearly  useless  in-  surance  policy,  and  methodically  she  went  to  the  safe-deposit  vault  and  put  it  away.  Next  she  cashed  a  check.  &quot;I  think  we  will  go  to  San  Francisco,&quot;  she  said,  and  we  walked  somehow  to  the  nearby  electric  train,  which  took  us  to  the  ferry  to  cross  the  bay.  We  were  silent  and  composed.  Rather,  we  were  stupefied,  without  any  plan  or  ability  to  think,  and  the  words  of  the  doorman  sounded  like  advice  and  we  took  it.  We  left  the  burning  town.  Then,  on  the  ferry,  the  enormity  of  what  was  happening  really  became  " b"visible.  We  sat  on  the  deck  and  saw  the  city  of  [REDACTED]  literally  going  up  in  hot,  black  clouds,  wildfire  covering  the  hills  with  a  writhing  mass  of  flame.  How  could  we  believe  what  we  were  seeing?  No  sight  of  excess  in  nature  can  be  more  terrible,  even  at  a  dis-  tance,  than  the  rolling  and  wallowing  and  climbing  and  pitching  of  fire  in  the  wind.  We  sat  hypnotized  as  the  ferry  churned  ahead.  Suddenly  my  mother  stiffened.  Her  hands  clenched  in  her  lap.  Her  face  turned  quite  gray.  &quot;That's  not  just  a  grass  fire!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;That's  not  just  a  forest  fire!&quot;  'Then  she  moaned.  &quot;'The  can  of  coal  oil!  A  spark  ...  A  stray  flame  .  .  .  The  oil  exploded.  .  ..  It  spread  the  fire!&quot;  I  thought  she  was  go-  ing  to  faint.  &quot;I  did  it!&quot;  she  managed  to  say.  &quot;I  have  destroyed  the  city  of  [REDACTED]!  I  shall  be  called  to  justice!  People  are  dying  up  there!  How  many  people  are  dying?&quot;  Like  the  hills,  her  conscience  was  enflamed,  and  the  out-  pouring  of  her  suffering  went  on  and  on.  This  was  not  theatrical  grief,  not  the  extremities  of  the  classics  before  the  falling  walls  of  Euripides;  she  was  watching  her  own  fire  and  the  extinc-  tion  of  an  American  city.  No  Siddons,  no  Duse  ever  spoke  the  awful  truth  from  such  horrors  of  an  agonized  heart.  As  I  listened  to  her  repeated  self-accu-  sation,  it  gradually  and  painfully  be-  came  clear  to  me  that  she  was  right.  Fire  of  such  immensity,  rage,  and  ve-  locity  couldnot  possibly  be  descending  on  the  city  and  destroying  it  without  having  been  fed  by  a  cache  of  fuel,  an  explosion  in  dry  grass,  and  hot  wind.  That  can  of  coal  oil!  Y  poor  mother-my  poor  beauti-  ful,  pitiful  mother.  Not  only  to  have  lost  her  home  and  all  her  pos-  sessions  but  to  be  the  cause  of  such  loss  and  tragedy  to  others.  Here  she  was,  in  this  excruciating  predicament,  alone  with  me,  my  father  dead,  my  sisters  gone  to  their  own  lives  and  careers,  and  how  could  I  save  her?  The  depth  of  her  desperation  flowed  up  and  into  me.  What  happened  to  me  personally  and  psychologically  there  on  the  deck  of  the  ferry  as  [REDACTED]  burned  in  front  of  us  has  never  ceased  to  aston-  ish  me,  What  IdidI  could  notnor-  mally  have  done  of  myself.  In  my  family  I  was  never  an  initiator,  a  rebel;  I  only  followed  and  sat  with  decorum  where  I  was  set  down,  lamentably  biddable,  and  a  sweet,  true  comfort  to  my  mother.  Now  in  the  moment  of  her  desolate  need  I  turned  against  her.  I  did  not  turn  against  her:  some  anxious  oracle  used  me  for  a  short,  angry  span  of  words,  a  cry  of  freedom.  In  a  rush  of  foreknowledge,  I  knew  that  forthe  rest  of  her  life  my  presence  and  devotion  would  be  nec-  essary,  that  I  would  be  left  unaided  with  her,  a  torn  partaker  of  regret  and  remorse.  As  my  mother  continued  to  accuse  herself,  I  shouted,  &quot;Stop  it!  Stop  it!  It's  unbearable!  Be  quiet!  If  you  can't  be  quiet,  I'll  jump  over  the  railing  into  the  bay!&quot;  And  I  stood  up.  Her  stricken  silence  and  the  look  of  reproach  and  loneliness  she  gave  me  were  dreadful.  I  could  not  make  my-  self  touch  her  to  console  her.  I  could  not  apologize.  Now  Isat  in  misery-in  a  brimming  vat  of  it,  awash  in  it,  sick  in  it-until  at  last  we  came  to  the  dock.  Lying  awake  that  night  in  some  modest  hotel  in  San  Francisco,  trying  to  hear  whether  my  mother  was  asleep  or  stretched  out  in  torment  of  mind,  I  thought  with  sharp  longing  of  the  pos- sessions  we  had  lost,  the  amiable  fur-  nishings  of  home-the  chairs  whose  arms  had  held  our  own,  the  mirrors  whose  faces  were  ours,  the  rugs  whose  Turkish  and  Persian  patterns  our  feet  knew  as  well  as  our  eyes  did.  I  thought  of  my  small  bedroom,  with  its  old  spool  bed  and  the  woven  coverlet  dated  1863  among  the  flowers  of  the  border,  the  cherrywood  dresser  made  by  a  Quaker  great-uncle.  I  laid  my  hand  on  the  lamp  table  and  the  quaint  sewing  box  that  was  like  a  little  fort,  with  brass-rimmed  holes  forthe  thread  to  come  out  from  the  spools.  I  wandered  about  the  house,  from  this  dear  thing  to  that,  and  in  my  mother's  room  I  leaned,  as  I  so  often  had  done,  against  the  tall  post  of  her  New  Orleans  bed.  From  room  to  room  I  went  in  love  and  loss,  touching,  looking,  feeling  with  sad,  bitter  attention  the  objects  that  had  been  common  to  our  daily  lives.  Suddenly  I  remembered  the  gold  thimble  I  had  left  on  the  windowsill  near  some  embroidery.  It  had  been  the  gift  of  Aunty  Goodall.  I  ran,  and  there  it  was,  just  where  I  left  it.  Then  with  a  pang  I  remembered  the  apricot  silk-  taffeta  dress  I  wore  in  the  wedding  of  my  friend  Eleanor.  I  stumbled  up  the  stairs  and  found  it  hanging  safein  the  closet.  Then  I  burst  into  sobs.  &quot;Oh,  I  left  you  all  in  the  house  " b"alone,  alone  as  the  fire  came.  I  turned  my  back  and  left  you  to  perish.  Good-  bye,  goodbye,&quot;  I  mourned  into  my  wet  pillow,  and  finally  fell  asleep.  HE  next  morning,  we  returned  to  [REDACTED]  and  found  the  hill  under  state  military  guard.  As  residents,  we  obtained  permits  and  began  the  climb  through  snowy  ashes  up  to  what  had  been  our  home,  up  to  find  the  evidence  of  my  mother's  guilt.  Of  this  we  had  not  spoken  since  the  trip  on  the  ferry,  although  it  lay  tightly,  heavily  fixed  in  our  two  minds.  We  had  bought  no  newspaper,  asked  no  questions.  We  knew  enough-too  much-and  were  afraid  to  learn  more.  As  we  started  up  the  hill,  ash  dominated  the  landscape.  The  fury  of  the  fire  had  consumed  the  homes  of  sixty  city  blocks  right  down  to  the  foundations,  leaving  only  an  oc-  casional  fireplace  with  its  gnawed  chim-  ney  standing,  or  a  scattering  of  twist,  ed  pipes.  Trees  and  shrubs  showed  wretchedly  as  black  fragments,  It  was  a  scene  of  littered  woe,  of  the  destruc-  tion  of  human  satisfactions  and  roots,  and  it  suggested  abominably  the  sweat,  the  labor,  the  heartbreak  of  restoration.     Therewas  no  wind  now,  and  the  whiteness  on  the  ground  lay  still.  As  we  climbed,  we  met  a  few  people  who  were  wandering  up  like  ourselves.  The  atmosphere  was  quiet,  haggard,  and  in  a  way  dreamlike,  Yesterday  was  as  un-  real  as  the  ashes  I  stopped  at  intervals  to  shake  from  my  red  slippers.  If  I  looked  about  me  long  enough,  hard  enough,  would  I  not  summon  out  of  the  ashes  that  brown  house  with  its  huge  bush  of  blue  hydrangeas  in  front,  each  cyme  of  flowers  an  enormous  dis-  play  of  congested  chemical  color?  And  on  farther,  a  half  block,  a  vague  spe-  cies  of  Queen  Anne  architecture  with  an  unpainted  porch  that  resembled  a  skull.  I  stopped  again  for  a  long  look.  &quot;Are  you  tired?&quot;  my  mother  asked.  &quot;Come  along.&quot;  Poor  Mother-was  she  eager  to  facethe  proof  of  guilt?  We  met  a  boy  I  knew  at  the  univer-  sity.  Yesterday,  the  students  had  been  dismissed  to  work  as  firefighters  or  to  save  the  contents  of  homes,  many  the  homes  of  professors-dwellings  stored  with  fine  libraries  and  manuscripts  of  importance.  We  were  wading  through  ashes  of  scholarship  and  literature.  The  boy  carried  a  large  album.  &quot;I  picked  up  an  old  lady  yesterday,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  was  all  by  herself  and  ina  daze,  and  she  was  hanging  on  to  this  photo  album  like  a  bulldog.  She  let  me  car-  ry  it,  though,  and  I  got  her  down  La  Loma  Steps,  and  suddenly  some-  one  ran  down  behind  us  and  yelled,  'Thank  God,  here's  Grandmother&quot;  But  when  I  triedto  give  her  back  the  album,  she  wouldn't  take  it.  'It's  your  family,&quot;  I  kept  saying.  'No  indeed,  not  mine,'  she  said.  'I  never  saw  them  be-  fore.&quot;  And  her  grandson  went  off  with  her.&quot;  My  friend  opened  the  album  and  held  it  out  as  if  he  hoped  I  might  re-  lieve  him  of  it.  I  turned  a  few  pages  of  whiskers  and  pop-eyed  brides  and  vyel-  lowing  babies.  &quot;Not  mine,  either,&quot;  saw  them  before.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  Did  you  lose  everything?&quot;  &quot;Everything.&quot;  He  squeezed  his  eyes  shut  and  gave  a  whistle  of  sympathy.  &quot;One  horrible  day,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  propped  the  album  against  a  pile  of  tumbled  bricks.  &quot;I'm  getting  tired  of  these  old  folks  myself,&quot;  he  remarked,  and  sauntered  on.  Next,  we  met  a  neighbor  who  had " b"kept  a  large  aviary.  He  inquired  wist-  fully  whether  we  had  seen  any  ca-  naries.  When  he  realized  that  the  fire  was  coming,  he  told  us,  he  had  gone  into  the  cage  and,  as  was  their  custom,  the  birds  all  came  to  him  and  perched  on  him--his  shoulders,  arms,  and  head.  And  he  had  walked  outwith  them-  how  pretty,  how  pitiful  it  must  have  been-and  then  run,  going  as  far  as  he  could  get  from  the  fire  and  the  wind.  At  last,  they  had  flown.  &quot;Please  listen,&quot;  he  said  sadly,  and  disappeared  on  the  bleak,  untwittering  hill  rather  as  though  he  himself  had  flown.  &quot;Did  you  see  that  man?&quot;&quot;  I  asked  my  mother.  &quot;Come,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;We  must  hurry.&quot;  But  then  we  were  overtaken  by  a  fireman  in  his  uniform.  He  told  us  the  fire  was  the  fastest  on  record,  destroy-  ing  the  sixty  city  blocks,  with  six  hun-  dred  homes,  fraternity  houses,  and  one  fire  station,  in  two  hours,  between  two  o'clock  and  four  o'clock.  He  was  still  greatly  excited.  &quot;Houses  simply  burst,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  saw  one  across  the  street  simply  burst  into  flames  because  it  was  so  dry.&quot;  My  mother  was  trying  to  ask  a  question.  &quot;Was  anyone  ...  How  many  ...?&quot;  &quot;My  mother  wants  to  ask  how  many  people  were  burned  to  death.&quot;  Feeling  crude,  I  asked  it  for  her  quickly.  &quot;Not  one,&quot;  the  fireman  answered-  or,  rather,  he  boomed  it  out  over  the  empty  hill.  &quot;Not  one  soul.  Even  me.  One  way  or  another,  I  didn't  die  from  heart  failure.  But  if  it  had  been  at  night  ...  Oh,  God!&quot;  and  he  continued  uphill  toward  the  ashes  of  the  station, where  yesterday  I  had  looked  for  him  in  vain.  My  mother  drew  a  deep,  noisy  breath,  a  sick-sounding  groan  of  grati-  tude,  and  I  realized  thatI  had  not  been  aware  of  her  breathing  as  we  climbed  the  hill.  Now  I  felt  that  I  weighed  less,  and  it  was  easier  to  lift  my  feet.  &quot;Broad  daylight,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  should  have  thought  about  that.&quot;&quot;  No  response;  only  deep,  grateful  breathing.  As  we  continued  on  our  way,  we  came  upon  the  grinning  keyboard  of  a  grand  piano;  it  lay  there  in  the  ashes,  an  obscene  fragment.  Had  the  agitat-  ed  owner  got  it  as  far  as  the  sidewalk  before  all  the  music  in  it  ignited  in  a  final  lurid  crescendo?  Not  much  farther  and  I  picked  up  a  charred  patch  of  Paisley  wool,  The  design  of  black  and  brown  and  turquoise  looked  familiar.  My  mother  took  it,  turned  it  about,  and  held  it  possessively.  &quot;Yes,  that  was  \xc2\xbb:y  mother's-all  that's  left  of  her  big  shawl-and  it  blew  downhill  this  far.  How  strange  that  you  found  it.&quot;  She  turned  it  over  and  over.  (I  still  have  the  bag  she  made  after  she  had  washed  it  free  ofthe  smell  of  burned  wool  and  combined  it  with  du-  vetyn  and  a  tortoiseshell  handle.  It  was  meant  to  look  elegant,  and  in  an  elegiac  way  it  does-a  kind  of  ladylike  pouch.)  Another  block  and  we  were  at  the  corner  of  Buena  Vista.  We  stopped  a  moment  to  rest,  as  we  had  been  stopping  all  the  way  along,  though  not  really  to  rest-rather,  in  the  midst  of  saying  &quot;Hurry,&quot;  a  means  of  delaying  for  a  few  minutes  more  the  sight  of  that  final  thing  whose  dread  mag-  netism  had  drawn  us  all  night  and  all  morning.  Of  the  episode  on  the  ferry  there  had  been  no  mention.  I  still  could  not  bring  myself  to  say  that  I  was  sorry,  and  my  mother's  suffering  discouraged  any  communication.  FEW  hundred  feet  more  and  we  had  come  home.  Now  the  ashes  were  real.  The  pepper  trees  had  been  reduced  to  stubs.  'The  concrete  steps,  heaped  with  ashes,  led  us  up  to  more  ashes,  into  which  the  chimney  had  collapsed.  We  stood  and  faced  in  silence  the  flat  nihilism  of  total  loss.  The  satanic  energy  of  the  fire  had  swept  the  premises  of  human  meaning,  and  how  could  one  feel  any  relation-  ship  to  a  void  ofashes?  Identical  emptiness  of  ash  lay  at  our  neighbor's  property  and  in  every  direction.  A  crazy  place;  it  would  be  easy  to  go  crazy  standing  there.  Gradually  we  became  aware  of  de-  tails-the  few  there  were.  Twisted  pipes  where  the  kitchen  had  been,  and  nearby  the  garbage  container  that  had  stood  outside  the  back  door.  It  was  in  fair  condition,  its  garbage  thoroughly  cooked  by  the  heat  of  the  burning  house.  We  picked  our  way  through  the  ashes  and,  attracted  by  a  spot  of  color,  I  gathered  up  a  shard  of  china.  I  was  looking  into  thesteady,  perennial  eye  of  one  of  my  aunt's  hand-painted  violets.  With  an  instinctive  reaction  ofirony,I  dropped  it  and  stepped  on  it.  &quot;Just  you!&quot;  I  said  angrily.  &quot;Two  barrels  and  two  thousand  miles,  and  you  are  all  we  have  left  of  anything.  Anything  at  all.&quot;  Under  my  foot  I  felt  them  moving,  squirming,  trying  to  reassemble-six  dozen  tiny  salt  cups,a  large  vase  painted  with  well-clothed  Congrega-  tional  nymphs,  and  that  uncanny  thing  a  Pompeian  lemonade  pitcher.  &quot;Stay  where  you  are,&quot;  I  command-  ed  them  dizzily,  and  at  that  moment  I  heard  my  mother's  voice  ringing  out:  &quot;I  found  it,  I  found  my  silver!&quot;  I  ran  to  see.  To  see  what?  'The  mahogany  buffet  with  the  long  drawer  full  of  neatly  arranged  spoons,  forks,  knives,  and  serving  pieces?  She  was  stand-  ing  beside  a  bright  lump  of  shapeless  met-  al:  her  melted  silver.  I  gazed  at  it  fixedly  and  felt  myself  growing  more  and  more  stupe-  fied.  Perhaps  the  large,  crumpled  spiderI  stepped  into  brought  back  a  little  sense,  for  " b"I  had  to  concentrate  on  it.  &quot;And  what  do  you  suppose  this  is?&quot;  We  answered  together,  &quot;The  typewriter.&quot;  We  could  identify  nothing  else,  and  now  it  was  no  longer  possi-  ble  to  avoid  going  to-  ward  what  we  had  come  to  see.  Side  by  side,  we  started  across  the  one-hundred-foot  stretch  of  what  had  been  the  vacant  lot  next  door,  silent  and  glancing  up  at  the  hills  instead  of  straight  ahead.  But  what  use  to  evade?  If  we  had  the  strength  to  walk,  we  mustwalk  it.  Sudden-  ly,  as  though  it  had  ris-  en  from  theearth,the  coal-oil  can,  half  oblit-  erated  by  ashes,  stood  in  front  of  us.  We  went  to  it  quickly.  It  appeared  to  be  quite  sound.  This  could  not  be  believed  without  proof.  My  mother  touched  it,  first  with  the  toe  of  her  shoe,  then  with  her  finger.  I  touched  it  also.  We  stood  and  regarded  it,  motionless  as  the  can  itself.  We  could  not  speak,  and  out  of  respect  for  the  super-  natural  I  had  the  idiotic  impulse  to  ad-  dress  it  in  someway:  &quot;O  Thou!  O  mysterious  containment!&quot;  It  had  re-  mained  in  one  piece.  It  hadnot  cast  its  fuel  around  to  feed  the  holocaust.  My  mother  moved  carefully  and  grasped  the  handle  of  the  can  on  one  side.  I  took  the  other  and  we  lifted  it  a  lit-  tle  off  the  ground,.  It  was  heavy,  as  it  had  been  heavy  yesterday.  We  let  the  can  come  to  rest,  very  gently.  Next  my  mother  unscrewed  the  cap.  We  took  turns  peering  in.  Then  we  smelled  it.  There  was  no  twig  or  stick  to  thrust  in  to  obtain  a  drop  to  smell  more  closely,  so  we  spilled  a  bit  and  I  rubbed  my  right  forefinger  in  the  moisture  and  again  we  smelled  it.  We  smelled  it  with  joy,  or  something  as  near  to  joy  as  we  were  capable  of  that  day;  we  smelled  it  in  a  passion  of  relief,  in  delight,  as  if  it  had  been  lilies  of  the  valley.  There  was  not  the  least  morsel  or  shred  of  doubt.  It  was  coal  oil.  It  was  my  mother's  coal  oil.  It  was  exactly  what  we  had  left  sit-  ting  there  the  day  before.  We  hunted  about  excitedly,  intent  on  anything  that  might  provide  a  clue  to  the  miracle.  Ashes  and  patches  of  bare  ground  where  the  wind  had  swept  everything  before  it-nothing  else.  The  grass  had  been  tall  and  very  dry,  but  the  fastest  fire  on  record  had  gone  by  in  such  speed  that  there  had  been  no  time  for  the  contents  of  the  can  to  become  heated.  'This  benign  truth  struck  us  like  a  strong  blow.  I  felt  like  falling,  and  there  was  nothing  to  sup-  port  me.  My  mother's  reaction  was  better.  Here  where  only  yesterday  the  fire  and  the  wind  had  met  in  super-  lative  fury  she  drew  herself  up  with  the  same  gesture  I  had  often  seen  when  she  was  about  to  pick  up  an  im-  portant  cue.  In  her  melodious  voice,  simply  and  fervently,  she  said,  &quot;Thank  you,  Lord.&quot;  It  was  a  notable  performance.  No  one  of  the  famous  women  she  idolized,  not  even  the  exotic  Alla  Nazimova,  could  have  done  it  better.  They  would  all  have  been  acting.  She  was  not.  It  was  drama,  but  the  drama  of  truth  uncontrived,  and  in  it  life  and  art  met  and  no  one  could  have  told  the  differ-  ence.  Fifty-one  years  have  passed,  and I  can  see  her  standing  and  giving  thanks  in  the  midst  of  ashes,  forgetting  her  own  losses  and  woes  and  giving  thanks  fora  clean  conscience.  The  mo-  ment  was  whole,  it  held  only  gratitude,  and  if  she  swayed  slightly  it  was  the  poise  of  talent  that  swayed  with  her,  the  movement  like  a  reed,  fast  at  the  earth  but  free  to  bend,  to  bend  mem-  orably  at  the  touch  of  great  feeling.  I  helped  my  mother  as  she  tipped  the  can  and  let  the  oil  run  out.  It  disappeared  at  once  down  a  wide  crack  in  the  dry  earth-ten  gallons  of  coal  oil,  ten  gallons  of  thankful  tears.  I  followed  her  as  she  walked  across  the  vacant  lot  to  take  possession  of  the  ashes  of  her  home. "