 b"WHERE  is  my  daughter?  Why  is  she  there?  What  crucial  error  did  I  make?  Was  there  more  thanone?  Why  have  I  assigned  myself  a  task  that  is  beyond  my  abilities?  Having  assigned  myself  a  task  that  is  beyond  my  abilities,  why  do  I  then  pursue  it  with  all  of  the  enthusiasm  of  one  who  believes  himself  capable  of  completing  the  task?  Having  assigned  myself  a  task  which  is  beyond  my  abilities,  why  do  I  then  do  that  which  is  most  certain  to  preclude  my  completing  the  task?  To  insure  failure?  'To  excuse  failure?  Ordinary  fear  of  failure?  When  I  characterize  the  task  as  beyond  my  abilities,  do  I  secretly  be-  lieve  that  it  is  within  my  powers?  Was  there  only  one  crucial  error,  or  was  there  a  still  more  serious  error  earlier,  one  that  I  did  not  recognize  as  such  at  the  time?  Was  there  a  series  of  errors?  Are  they  in  any  sense  forgivable?  If  so,  who  is  empowered  to  forgive  me?  If  I  fail  in  the  task  that  is  beyond  my  abilities,  will  my  lover  laugh?  Will  the  mailman  laugh?  butcher?  The  When  will  the  mailman  bring  me  a  letter  from  my  daughter?  Why  do  I  think  my  daughter  might  be  dead  or  injured  when  I  know  that  she  is  almost  certainly  well  and  happy?  If  I  fail  in  the  taskthat  is  beyond  my  abilities,  will  my  daughter's  mother  laugh?  But  what  if  the  bell  rings  and  I  go  down  the  stairs  and  answer  the  door  and  find  there  an  old  woman  with  white  hair  wearing  a  bright-red  dress,  and  when  I  open  the  door  she  immedi-  ately  begins  spitting  blood,  a  darker  red  down  the  front  of  her  bright-red  dress?  If  I  fail  in  the  taskthat  is  beyond  my  abilities,  will  my  doctor  laugh?  Why  do  I  conceal  from  my  doctor  what  it  is  necessary  for  him  to  know?  Is  my  lover's  lover  a  man  or  a  wom-  an?  Will  my  father  and  mother  laugh?  Are  they  already  laughing,  secretly,  be-  hind  their  hands?  If  I  succeed  in  the  task  that  is  beyond  my  abilities,  will  I  win  the  approval  of  society?  If  I  win  the  ap-  proval  of  society,  does  this  mean  that  the  (probable)  series  of  errors  already  mentioned  will  be  forgiven,  or,  if  not   forgiven,  viewed  in  a  more  sympa-  thetic  light?  Will  my  daughter  then  be  returned  to  me?  Will  I  deceive  myself  about  the  task  that  is  beyond  my  abilities,  telling  my-self  that  I  have  su  ccessfully  completed  it  when  I  have  not  ?  Will  others  aid  in  the  dece  ption?  Will  others  unveil  the  deception?  But  what  if  t  he  bell  rings  and  I  go  down  the  s  tairs  and  answer  the  door  and  fi  nd  there  a  n  old  man  with  white  hair  wearing  a  bright-r  ed  dress,  and  when  I  open  the  door  he  immedi-ately  begins  spitting  blood,  a  darker  red  down  the  front  of  his  bright-red  d  ress?  Why  did  I  assign  myself  the  task  that  is  beyond  my  abilities?  Did  I  invent  my  lover's  lover  or  is  he  or  she  real?  Ought  I  to  care?  BUT  what  if  the  bell  rings  and  I  go  down  the  stairs  again  and  instead  of  the  white-haired  woman  or  man  in  the  bright-red  dress  my  lover's  lover  is  standing  there?  And  what  if  I  bring  my  lover's  lover  into  the  house  and  sit  him  or  her  down  in  the  brown  leather  club  chair  and  provide  him  or  her  with  a  drink  and  begin  to  explain  that  the  task  I  have  undertaken  is  hopelessly,  hopelessly  beyond  my  abilities?  And  what  if  my  lover's  lover  listens  with  the  utmost  consideration,  nodding  and  smiling  and  patting  my  wrist  at  intervals  as  one  does  with  a  nervous  client,  if  one  is  a  lawyer  or  doctor,  and  then  ab-  ruptly  offers  me  a  new  strategy:  Why  not  do  this?  And  what  if,  thinking  over  the  new  strategy  proposed  by  my  lover's  lover,  I  recognize  that  yes,  this  is  the  solution  which  has  evaded  me  for  these  many  months?  And  what  if,  recognizing  that  my  lover's  lover  has  found  the  solu-  tion  which  has  evaded  me  for  these  many  months,  I  suddenly  begin  spitting  blood,  dark  red  against  the  blue  of  my  blue  work  shirt?  What  then?  For  is  it  not  the  case  that  even  with  the  solution  in  hand,  the  task  will  remain  beyond  my  abili-  ties?  And  where  is  my  daughter?  What  is  my  daughter  thinking  at  this  moment?  Is  my  daughter,  at  this  moment,  being  knocked  off  her  bicycle  by  a  truck  with  the  words  HACHARD  &amp;  CIE  painted  on  its  sides?  Or  is  she,  rather,  in  a  photographer's  studio,  sitting  for  a  portrait  I  have  requested?  Or  has  she  already  done  so,  and  " b"will,  today,  the  bell  ring  and  the  mail-  man  bring  alarge  stiff  brown  envelope  stamped  PHOTO  DO  NOT  BEND!  HACHARD  &amp;  CIE?  PHOTO  DO  NOT  BEND?  If  I  am  outraged  and  there  is  no  basis  in  law  or  equity  for  my  outrage  nor  redress  in  law  or  equity  for  my  out-  rage,  am  I  to  decide  that  my  outrage  is  wholly  inappropriate?  If  I  observe  my-  self  carefully,  using  the  techniques  of  introspection  most  favored  by  society  and  decide,  after  such  observation,  that  my  outrage  is  not  wholly  inappropri-  ate  but  (perhaps)  partially  appropriate,  what  can  I  do  with  my  (partially  ap-  propriate)  outrage?  What  is  there  to  do  with  it  but  deliver  it  to  my  lover  or  my  lover's  lover  or  to  the  task  which  is  beyond  my  abilities,  or  to  embrace  instead  the  proposition  that,  after  all,  things  are  not  so  bad?  Which  is  not  true?  IfI  embrace  the  proposition  that,  after  all,  things  are  not  so  bad,  which  is  not  true,  then  have  I  not  also  em-  braced  a  hundred  other  propositions,  kin  to  the  first  in  that  they  are  also  not  true?  That  the  Lord  is  my  shepherd,  for  example?  But  what  if  I  decide  not  to  be  out-  raged  but  to  be,  instead,  calm  and  sen-  sible?  Calm  and  sensible  and  adult?  And  mature?  What  if  I  decide  to  send  my  daughter  stamps  for  her  stamp  col-  lection  and  funny  postcards  and  birth-  day  and  Christmas  packages  and  to  visit  her  at  the  times  stated  in  the  agree-  ment?  And  what  if  I  assign  myself  sim-  pler,  easier  tasks,  tasks  which  are  well  within  my  powers?  And  what  if  I  de- cide  that  my  lover  has  no  other  lover  (disregarding  the  matchbooks,  the  ex-  planations  that  do  not  explain,  the  dis-  crepancies  of  time  and  place),  and  what  if  I  inform  my  doctor  fully  and  precise-  ly  about  my  case,  supplying  all  relevant  details  (especially  the  shameful)?  And  what  if  I  am  able  to  redefine  my  errors  as  positive  adjustments  to  a  state  of  af-  fairs  requiring  positive  adjustments?  And  what  if  the  operator  does  not  break  into  my  telephone  conversation,  any  conversation,  and  say,  &quot;I'm  sorry,  this  is  the  operator,  I  have  an  emer-  gency  message  for  679-9819&quot;?  Will  others  aid  in  the  deception?  Will  others  unveilthe  deception?  &quot;T  werrtH:  Except  for  the  obliga-  tions,  promises  and  agreements  herein  set  forth  and  to  be  performed  by  the  husband  and  wife  respectively,  and  for  rights,  obligations  and  causes  of  action  arising  out  of  or  under  this  agreement,  all  of  which  are  expressly  reserved,  the  husband  and  wife  each  hereby,  for  him-  self  or  herself  and  for  his  or  her  legal  representatives,  forever  releases  and  dis-  charges  the  other,  and  the  heirs  and  legal  representatives  of  the  other,  from  any  and  all  debts,  sums  of  money,  accounts,  contracts,  claims,  cause  or  causes  of  action,  suits,  dues,  reckoning,  bills,  specialties,  covenants,  controver-  sies,  agreements,  promises,  variances,  trespasses,  damages,  judgments,  ex-  tents,  executions  and  demands,  whatso-  ever,  in  law  or  in  equity,  which  he  or  she  had,  or  has  or  hereafter  can,  shall  or  may  have,  by  reason  of  any  matter,  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  to  the  execution  of  this  agreement.&quot;  HE  painters  are  here.  They  are  painting  the  apartment.  One  gal-  lon  of  paint  to  eight  gallons  of  benzine.  From  the  beginning  of  the  world  to  the  execution  of  this  agreement.  Where  is  my  daughter?  I  am  asking  for  a  car-  rot  to  put  in  the  stone  soup.  The  vil-  lagers  are  hostile. "