 SODOM  AND  HEN  I  entered  medical  school  \;\/  in  1920,  [REDACTED]  was  suffering  from  the  aftereffects  of  the  war.  The  former  residential  capital  of  an  empire  of  sixty  million  people  had  been  reduced  to  being  the  capital  city  of  a  small  country  of  six  and  a  half  mil-  lion.  Deprived  of  its  hinterland-grain-  producing  [REDACTED]  and  the  coal  mines  of  Silesia-[REDACTED]  was  a  starving  and  freezing  city  in  that  rigorous  win-  ter  of  1920-21.  We  students  attend-  ed  lectures  in  unheated  auditoriums,  and  in  anatomy  laboratories  dissected  with  freezing  fingers.  Who  among  my  generation  of  Viennese  doctors  does  not  remember  the  breakfast  that  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Quakers  served  at  the  aula  ofthe  university-large  bowls  of  hot  chocolate  and  thick  slices  of  bread,  givenout  by  those  white-haired  ladies,  always  with  a  smile  and  kind  words  for  us  in  their  atrocious  accents.  With-  out  that  nourishing  breakfast  we  would  hardly  have  been  able  to  start  our  day  in  school.  The  ingredients  for  our  other  meals  also  came  from  [REDACTED].  The  Jewish  Joint  Distribution  Committee  rented  a  dilapidated  building  on  the  Zimmer-  mannplatz,  near  the  boulevard  that  separated  [REDACTED]  proper  from  its  sub-  urbs,  and  adapted  it  to  a  student  cafe-  teria-the  Mensa  Academica.  Hun-  dreds  of  young  men  and  women  sat  around  unpolished  tables  in  that  giant  dining  room,  devouring  their  meals.  Unshaded  bulbs  hung  from  the  ceiling,  and  the  room  was  far  from  comfort-  able,  but  it  was  well  heated  and  served  its  purpose.  We  spent  our  free  time  there,  studying  and  discussing  events.  In  a  corner  was  a  blackboard  on  which  notices  were  chalked  up:  meetings,  lost-and-found  articles,  part-time  jobs.  There  one  day  I  discovered  an  adver-  tisement  for  a  French  tutor  for  two  children.  My  knowledge  of  French  was  skimpy,  but  I  was  in  dire  need  of  money.  (My  parents  lived  in  Baden  bei  Wien,  a  half  hour's  train  ride  from  [REDACTED].  We  were  refugees  from  Fas-  cist  [REDACTED],  and  I  could  not  expect  help  from  home.)  I  went  to  Hietzing,  the  villa  suburb  ofthe  wealthy,  and  introduced  myself  to  Herr  and  Frau  Stieglbauer.  Fortunately,  they  did  not  speak  French  at  all,  and  I  was  accept-  ed.  Three  times  weekly  for  a  year  and  a  half,  I  taught  a  ten-year-old  boy  and  his  eight-year-old  sister  the  language  of  Moliére,  and  while  teaching  it  I  learned  it  better  myself.  In  addition  to  the  three  schillings'  tutoring  fee,  I  re-  ceived  an  afternoon  Jause:  coffee  with  GOMoORR  AH  Schlagobers  and  buttered  rolls.  I  was  more  than  sorry  when  in  May  of  1922,  on  arriving  at  the  villa,  I  was  told  by  the  weeping  Frau  Stieglbauer  that  my  services  were  no  longer  required.  Her  husband's  business  had  deteriorated  to  such  a  degree  that  the  chauffeur,  the  gardener,  two  maids,  the  Kinderfriu-  lein,  and  I  all  lost  our  jobs.  What  made  this  more  regrettable  was  that  it  occurred  just  before  sum-  mer  vacation.  At  the  Mensa,  I  looked  in  vain  for  another  position.  But  then  one  day  there  was  a  note  on  the  black-  board:  jobs  for  thirty  people;  the  Sascha  Film  Company  was  hiringex-  tras.  The  only  requirement  was  mini-  mal  training  in  acting,  and  the  fee  was  tremendous-five  schillings  (one  dol-  lar)  per  session!  Next  morning  at  six,  I  travelled  by  trolley  car  one  hour  to  the  Lagerberg,  where  the  film  company  had  its  studios.  A  long  line  of  applicants  was  already  waiting-mostly  students  of  theatrical  schools,  I  learned  from  the  talk,  and  I  thought  my  chances  were  slim  indeed.  But  there  I  was,  and  I  settled  down  and  read  from  the  anatomy  book  I  had  brought  with  me.  I  read  for  two  hours.  Then  we  were  all  called  into  a  room,  obviously  the  office,  where  be-  hind  a  desk  a  man  of  about  thirty  with  a  great  crop  of  hair  sat  chain-  smoking.  With  a  quick  wave  of  the  hand,  he  indicated  that  we  were  to  walk  past  him.  He  rejected  one  after  another.  Finally,  I  arrived  at  the  desk  and  stood  facing  him.  His  squinting  eyes  rested  on  me.  Five  seconds  passed,  and  five  more-I  was  still  not  rejected.  &quot;Any  training  in  acting?&quot;  he  asked  me.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  'Tell  me  more.&quot;  &quot;A  couple  of  roles  in  Shakespeare.  I  also  played  Franz  Moor  in  'Die  &quot;  The  man's  eyes  brightened.  Franz  Moor  in  the  Schiller  drama  was  a     OCTOBER  14,  1974  major  role.  &quot;In  what  theatre?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;In  Gymnasium.&quot;  This  was  greeted  by  aroar  of  laugh-  ter.  The  man  smiled.  &quot;How  exciting!&quot;  he  said,  Then  he  turned  to  two  men  standing  with  him.  &quot;Too  bad,&quot;  he  said,  amused.  &quot;'The  fellow  has  a  Bibli-  cal  face.  It  reminds  me  of  Nebuchad-  nezzar  in  a  mural  I  saw  recently.&quot;  Again  there  was  a  salvo  of  mocking  laughter,  and  I  felt  myself  grow  hot  with  rage.  I  had  noticed  that  though  he  spoke  good  German,  like  a  Hun-  garian  he  emphasized  the  first  sylla-  ble  of  each  word.  &quot;Someday  I  hope  to  meet  you  when  we  are  alone!&quot;  I  shouted  at  him  in  Hungarian.  The  man  got  up  and  walked  around  the  desk  toward  me.  He  raised  his  right  hand,  and  I  was  preparing  for  a  fistfight,  but  he  placed  his  hand  gently  on  my  shoulder.  &quot;We  Hungarians  have  a  terrible  temper,  haven't  we?&quot;  he  said,  and  laughed.  He  had  a  terrible  temper,  Michael  Kertész,  the  director  for  the  Sascha  Film  Company.  He  shouted,  screamed  on  all  occasions.  But  I  was  one  of  the  thirty  extras.  &quot;Hurry  up!&quot;  he  said  impatiently  as  he  conducted  us  to  the  dressing  room.  There  we  exchanged  our  street  clothes  for  white  gowns.  Soon  we  learned  what  they  signified.  It  was  a  sunny  morning  but  brisk,  as  it  is  in  late  May  in  [REDACTED].  We  marched  to  the  open-air  studios  (the  sun  was  the  only  source  of  light  for  filmmaking  in  those  days).  Kertesz,  sitting  high  on  a  ladder,  was  yelling  at  the  stagehands,  who  carried  papier-  maché  buildings  from  a  warehouse.  At  one  side  stoodasmall  group  of  men  and  women  in  white  gowns  like  ours.  I  recognized  them  all:  well-known  actors  and  actresses  of  the  legitimate  theatre.  At  last,  the  stage  was  set,  the  technicians  disappeared,  and  the  camera-  man  came  out  from  the  office  build-  ing.  &quot;Let's  begin!&quot;  Kertész  shouted  from  his  height.  &quot;Ladies  and  gentle-  men  of  the  cast.  Our  production  is  the  Biblical  drama  'Sodom  and  Gomor-  rah.&quot;  He  took  a  tattered  book  from  his  pocket.  &quot;This  is  the  Book  of  Gene-  sis.  Should  I  read  the  chapter  that  deals  with  our  subject?&quot;  &quot;No!&quot;  we  boomed  in  unison.  We  were  freezing  in  our  Biblical  costumes,  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  Kertész  said.  &quot;Then  we  shall  begin.&quot;  I  could  see  that  he  had  prepared  himself  for  a  speech.  URING  the  next  two  months,  the  mass  scenes  of  the  movie  were  filmed;  the  sinning  population  of  the  THE  NEW  YORKER  doomed  towns  committed  crimes  against  God  and  their  fellow-men.  Hour  after  hour,  day  after  day,  the  thirty  of  us  attacked  Lot's  house,  only  to  be  stopped  by  two  corpulent  angels.  Kertesz  screamed  at  us,  &quot;Fools!  You  stroll  as  if  you  were  on  the  Kirntner  Strasse.  Attack,  you  sons  of  bitches!  Again!  Again,  you  ...&quot;  until  hegave  a  sign  to  the  cameraman,  a  middle-  aged,  dour-faced  man  with  gypsy-black  hair,  to  start  shooting  the  scene.  Often  when  we  arrived  in  the  morning,  the  sun  hid  behind  clouds,  and  those  days,  with  a  grim  face,  Kertész  handed  us  our  five  schillings  at  the  gate.  It  was  always  he  who  paid  our  salaries.  Not  everything  I  had  expected  when  I  entered  the  world  of  glamour  materialized  in  the  hys-  terical  atmosphere,  the  hustle  and  bustle,  the  dreariness  of  the  papier-  maché  houses.  But  the  five  schillings  reconciled  me  to  the  shortcomings  of  the  job.  My  living  standard  im-  proved.  I  bought  a  much  needed  suit  and  a  pair  of  shoes.  I  ate  better,  and  my  mother's  eyes  rested  on  me  with  satisfaction.  I  could  even  help  my  par-  ents  and  my  brothers,  who  were  still  in  the  Gymnasium.  Food  was  rationed,  and  low  in  calories.  Mother  obviously  did  not  divide  it  evenly;  when  I  came  home  for  the  weekends,  I  found  her  face  smaller  and  smaller.  But  every-  thing  could  be  bought  on  the  black  market,  and  on  my  visits  now  I  car-  ried  in  my  briefcase  bread,  meat,  short-  enings,.  Father  did  not  know-he  would  have  resented  it  bitterly.  Father  was  in  his  mid-forties.  He  had  been  a  pioneer  in  the  welfare  pro-  gram  of  the  workers  in  western  Hun-  gary-a  high  official  in  the  social-  security  and  sick-benefit  foundation-  and  he  could  not  find  an  equal  job  as  a  refugee  in  Austria.  In  the  small  po-  sitions  he  did  find  here  and  there,  he  earned  too  much  to  die  but  not  enough  to  live  decently.  Still,  he  was  too  proud  to  accept  support  from  anyone-es-  pecially  from  a  son.  He  knew  of  my  job  at  the  Sascha  Film  Company,  of  course,  but  he  had  no  interest  in  it;  it  was  an  emergency  solution.  Father    was  not  a  doctor  himself,  but  he  came  from  a  family  of  doctors,  and  all  his  life  medicine  was  the  essence  of  his  existence.  Mother,on  the  other  hand,  was  curious  about  my  new  career.  &quot;'Tell  me  more,&quot;  she  would  say,  making  sure  that  Father  was  not  around.  Her  own  interests  included  the  arts:  theatre,  movies,  music.  She  had  a  warm,  pleas,  ant  voice.  Before  I  opened  my  eyes  mornings,  I  would  hear  her  singing  as  she  moved  about  the  apartment  pre-  paring  breakfast,  checking  Father's  clothes  for  the  day.  &quot;Leise  flehen  meine  Lieder&quot;-she  loved  Schubert,.  She  wanted  to  know  everything  about  the  picture-making,but  when  I  had  fin-  ished  telling  her  she  would  always  say,  &quot;Yes,  it  is  interesting.  But  Richard,  do  not  neglect  your  studies.&quot;  Those  I  neglected  indeed.  'The  hours  of  my  lectures  often  conflicted  with  the  time  I  spent  on  the  Laaer-  berg.  In  anatomy  lab,I  was  behind  the  others;  theleg  that  had  been  assigned  to  me  for  dissection  was  only  half  done.  One  afternoon,  the  anatomy  instructor  warned  me  that  if  I  didn't  finish  in  time  I  would  flunk.  Next  day,  I  asked  for  an  interview  with  Kertész  to  request  time  off.  As  always  when  a  subject  didn't  interest  him,  he  listened  withonly  one  ear.  Then  he  said  that  he  would  try  to  work  something  out.  That  was  the  last  I  heard  of  the  mat-  ter.  So  I  explained  my  predicament  to  the  instructor  and  arranged  with  him  to  dissect  during  the  evening  hours.  Out  on  the  Laaerberg,  Kertész  was  pushing  those  scenes  that  required  a  large  personnel.  The  payroll  with  the  extras  weighed  heavily  on  his  mea-  gre  budget.  (Often,  sombre-looking  strangers-the  men  who  financed  the  venture-watched  the  shooting,  while  Kertész  smoked  more  than  usual.)  Little  by  little,  one  extra  after  another  was  given  notice,  until  only  a  few  of  us  remained.  'Then,  oneday  when  I  arrived  for  work,  the  doorman  told  me  I  must  report  immediately  at  Kertesz'  office.  Walking  through  the  anteroom,  all  I  could  think  of  was  the  blackboard  at  the  Mensa,  with  its  chalked-up  no-  tices  of  jobs.  But  Kertész  received  me  cordially,  offered  me  a  seat  and  a  cig-  arette.  He  asked  me  how  things  were  going,  and  I  thought  he  was  even  pay-  ing  attention  as  I  answered.  He  rose  and  walked  up  and  down,  taking  side  glances  at  me.  He  stopped  in  front  of  50  Z-y-\  me.  &quot;D'you  want  to  continue  with  us?&quot;&quot;  he  asked.  It  took  a  few  seconds  to  collect  my-  self.  &quot;I  just  told  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  behind  in  anatomy  lab-&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  interrupted.  &quot;We  can  talk  about  that,  too.  Now,  listen.&quot;  He  switched  to  Hungarian.  &quot;I've  been  watching  you,  and  I  want  to  be  fair.  You're  no  Conrad  Veidt  yet,  but  may-  be  something  can  be  made  of  you-  maybe.  What  I  need  immediately  is  someone  to  take  over  the  part  of  Lot.  Herr  Schwendtner  complains  of  chest  pains-he's  not  going  to  be  able  to  continue.&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;But  medical  students  are  forbidden  to  take  part  in  extra-  curricular  activities.  The  university-&quot;  &quot;'They  needn't  know.  We'll  use  a  pseudonym.&quot;   Kertész  narrowed  his  eyes.  &quot;Your  fee  will  be  fifty  schillings  a  session!  Te  marka.&quot;  (&quot;You  block-  head.&quot;)  He  looked  at  me  sternly.  HAD  a  hard  time.  The  rehearsals  were  agony.  Kertész  interrupted  me  steadily  with  abuse.  &quot;You  are  Lot,  you  stupid  son  of  a  bitch!  The  only  one  in  those  goddam  towns  who  was  selected  by  the  Almighty!  Don't  you  under-  stand?  Why  the  hell  did  I  ever  think  you  could  do  it!&quot;  Moaning,  he  tore  at  his  hair.  At  last,  still  moaning,  he  gave  the  sign  to  the  cameraman.  And  then  we  would  move  to  the  next  scene,  and  new  abuses.  I  often  was  close  to  pulling  off  my  Biblical  costume  and  walking  out.  Otherwise,  Kertész  kept  his  word;  he  accepted  the  demands  of  medical  school  and  allowed  me  time  for  lec-  tures.  Still,  it  often  happened  that  while  I  was  in  the  midst  oflab  work  I  was  called  out  and  in  the  corridor  one  of  Kertész'  messengers  would  be  waiting.  In  November,  the  filming  was  com-  pleted,  and  during  the  winter  months  Kertész  edited  the  film.  I  stood  by  while  he  explained  to  me  the  technical  busi-  ness  of  cutting  and  splicing.  In  April,  1923,  &quot;Sodom  and  Gomorrah&quot;  was  shown  in  the  movie  theatres  of  [REDACTED].     It  was  a  smash  hit  in  the  city.  But  I  flunked  anatomy  lab.  My  father  was  furi-  ous.  He  turned  on  Mother,  &quot;I  warned  you!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;It  is  your  fault!&quot;  Mother  tried  to  ap-  pease  him.  &quot;All  right,  all  right,&quot;  he  said  finally.  &quot;But  now  the  hocus-pocus  is  over.  Verstanden!&quot;  I  told  Kertész  and  he  was  furious,  too.  &quot;Your  petit-bourgeois  father!  He  can-  not  grasp  what  his  son  has  achieved!  A  career!  Fame!&quot;  Soon  I  noticed  it  myself.  At  first,  I  thought  it  was  only  accidental.  While  sitting  with  Kertesz  in  the  Café  Arka-  den,  a  student  café  located  near  the  university,  I  would  see  people  point  at  us  and  whisper.  Kertész  had  acon-  siderable  reputation,  and  I  was  not  surprised  at  thepublic  attention  he  was  given.  But  once  when  I  was  waiting  for  him  a  young  lady  approached  me  and  asked  for  an  autograph.  I  must  have  looked  blank  asI  signed  my  name,  and  the  girl  looked  quite  disap-  pointed.  &quot;I  thought  you  were  Lot,&quot;  she  said.  Happily,  I  signed  my  pseudo-  nym,  and  other  visitors  of  the  café  came  crowding  round.  The  same  thing  happened  when  I  was  sitting  on  a  bench  of  the  Votivpark,  near  the  uni-  versity.  And  if  I  had  needed  an  addi-  tional  confirmation  of  my  popularity,  I  received  it  soon.  The  Studentenkrawalle,  anti-Semitic  student  demonstrations,  were  a  biannu-  al  occurrence  at  registration  time,  when  nationalist  students  attempted  to  pre-  vent  Jewish  students  from  entering  the  university-a  kind  of  carnival  watched  by  hundreds  of  Viennese  outside  the  university  building.  When  I  went  up  the  outside  steps  of  that  building  to  reg-  ister  for  the  summer  semester,  I  was  immediately  stopped  by  a  long-legged     student  wearing  the  fraternity  cap  of  a  nationalist  student  society.  He  asked  me  if  I  was  Jewish,  and  I  answered  that  it  was  none  of  his  business.  A  brawl  ensued,  and  the  proctor's  menwho  were  on  duty  came  over  and  conducted  the  two  of  us  to  the  dean's  office.  The  dean,  a  professor  of  pharma-  cology,  had  a  beard  enveloping  most  of  his  face.  He  asked  who  had  initiated  the  fight.  I  said  it  was  I.  &quot;Don't  you  know  that  disturbances  in  these  halls  are  prohibited?&quot;  he  thun-  dered  at  me.  I  told  him  the  circumstances,  and  added  that  certainly  I  had  a  right  to  register.  &quot;You  should  have  complained,&quot;  the  dean  said.  &quot;To  whom?&quot;  &quot;To  the  proctor's  men-don't  you  know  that?&quot;  &quot;They  arrived  brute-&quot;  &quot;Don't  use  such  expressions.  I  sus-  pend  you  for  the  coming  semester.&quot;  &quot;But  Herr  Dekan,&quot;  I  protested.  The  dean  took  off  his  eyeglasses  and  wiped  them  with  great  care.  After  putting  them  back  on  his  nose,  he  studied  my  face.  Then,  around  his  fleshy  lips,  partly  hidden  by  his  beard,  a  smile  appeared.  &quot;Are  you  by  any  chance  Lot?&quot;  he  said.  More  trouble,  I  thought,  forI  had  only  after  that     broken  university  regulations.  But  I  had  no  other  choice  than  to  answer  ves.  &quot;Sentence  suspended,&quot;  the  dean  said.  Y  summer  vacation  was  ruined;  I  had  to  prepare  for  the  anatomy  exam  in  the  fall.  The  lab  remained  open  during  the  summer  and  I  had  much  to  make  up.  I  met  often  with  Kertész  at  the  Café  Arkaden.  &quot;Sod-  om  and  Gomorrah,&quot;  in  spite  of  its  critical  success,  was  not  doing  well  at  the  box  office.  [REDACTED],  the  proverbial  capital  of  music  and  the  arts,  had  not  established  a  reputation  in  moviemak-  ing.  The  Pathé  Fréres  of  [REDACTED],  UFA  (Universum-Film-Aktiengesell-  schaft)  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  even  little  [REDACTED]  were  more  recognized  on  the  world  market.  I  half  listened  to  Kertész  explaining  why  while  I  read  about  heart  valves,  and  muscles  and  their  innervations.  One  night,  Kertész  arrived  at  the  café  earlier  than  usual.  He  moved  around  on  his  chair  uneasily.  &quot;I've  an  idea.  Listen,&quot;  he  said.  I  looked  up  from  my  book.  &quot;It's  raining  incessantly,  but  the  pay-  roll  goes  on.  I'm  fed  up  with  the  Laaer-  berg.  I've  decided  to  shoot  a  couple  of  films  at  Lake  Como.  Eternal  sun  ...&quot;  &quot;And  what  has  that  to  do  with  me?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;A  couple  of  Ferenc  Molnar  com-  edies.  Would  you  come  along?&quot;     &quot;Out  of  the  question!&quot;  I  pointed  at  my  book.  &quot;You  wouldn't  have  to  work  all  the  time.  You  could  study,  too.&quot;  &quot;I  am  staying  right  here!&quot;  I  pounded  the  table.  &quot;Hundred  schillings!&quot;  Kertész  nar-  rowed  his  eyes.  Money  was  no  longer  a  temptation  to  me.  The  fortunes  of  my  family  had  changed.  The  peace  treaty  of  Saint-  Germain,  concluded  in  1919  between  Austria  and  the  victorious  Allied  pow-  ers,  ceded  parts  of  western  [REDACTED]  to  Austria  and  established  a  new  province,  the  Burgenland.  In  1923,  Father  had  regained  his  old  position,  and  I  was  now  fully  supported  from  home.  I  told  Kerteész  so.  &quot;It's  not  the  money,&quot;  he  said  apol-  ogetically.  &quot;I  meant  it  only  as  a  token  of  appreciation.&quot;  He  smiled.  &quot;Aren't  you  flattered,  you  blockhead?  Well,  think  it  over.  Lake  Como  instead  of  this  terrible  [REDACTED].  Look  out  the  win-  dow.  Brrr.&quot;  And  he  went  on  talking  about  his  plans.  The  perfect  pied  piper,  I  thought,  unmoved.  But  then,  little  by  little,  he  pulled  me  once  again  into  his  sphere.  After  all-couldn't  I  take  part  in  those  movies  and  at  the  same  time  study  for  my  exam?  I  travelled  to  Sauerbrunn,  a  little  watering  place,  now  the  temporary  capital  of  Burgenland.  It  was  not  hard     51     to  persu  a  de  Mother,  b  ut  how  to  win  over  Father?  My  parents  li  ved  in  a  spacious  apartment  on  the  second  floor  of  a  building  whose  first  floor  was  taken  up  by  Father's  offices.  On  the  veranda  ov  erlooki  ng  a  garden  w  ith  ap-  ple,  pear  ,  cherry,  and  walnut  trees,  Mother  and  I  discussed  stratagems  till  late  at  night,  wh  ile  Fat  her  still  worked  in  his  office.  I  looked  tired,  Mother  said,  and  F  ather  would  certainly  not  ob  ject  to  my  taking  a  vacation  in  the  su  nny  south.  That  would  be  th  e  bes  t  line  to  take.  &quot;But  will  you  also  s  tudy?  &quot;  she  asked  anxiously.  THE  movie  productions  at  Lake  Como  proceeded  according  to  plan.  I  was  now  an  old  hand.  I  played  Hungarian  cavalry  officers  and  jealous  husbands  with  skill.  Even  Kertész  seemed  to  be  satisfied,  although  he  did  not  commend  me;  in  business,  he  kept  a  proper  distance  between  himself  and  the  staff.  During  my  free  time,  I  swam  in  the  azure-blue  lake.  Nights,  I  danced  with  Lot's  younger  daughter,  again  my  partner,  in  spite  of  Kertész'  explicit  or-  der  that  the  cast  must  be  in  bed  at  ten.  Once,  he  caught  us  and  created  a  scan-  dal  in  the  presence  of  other  guests  at  the  bar,  who  knew  us  and  enjoyed  the  scene.  As  a  consequence,  we  were  locked  at  nine  in  separate  rooms.  Now,  finally,  I  studied  anatomy.  At  the  end  of  August,  the  troupe  52  travelled  home.  Father  and  Mother  were  both  pleased  at  the  way  I  looked.  &quot;You  have  a  good  suntan,&quot;  Father  said.  &quot;But  I  hope  you're  ready  for  the  exam.&quot;  I  assured  Mother  that  every-  thing  had  gone  well-movie  acting  and  also  studying.  We  agreed  that  Father,  who  never  went  to  the  movies,  would  not  find  out  about  my  escapade.  The  first  week  of  October,  I  passed  anatomy  and  was  through  with  the  basic  sciences.  I  was  ready  for  the  Allgemeines  Krankenhaus-the  teach-  ing  hospital.  It  was  built  at  the  order  of  Josef  II,  the  enlightened  Hapsburg  emperor,  in  the  seventeen-seventies.  A  few  buildings  had  been  added,  but  in  my  time  it  did  not  look  very  different  from  the  day  it  had  been  erected:  small  buildings  separated  by  seven  courtyards,  patches  of  green.  The  air  always  carried  the  smell  of  iodine  and  carbolic  acid.  In  spring,  when  the  acacia  trees  bloomed,  their  scent  mingled  with  the  smell  of  the  medications.  My  heart  bumped  when  I  first  placed  my  stethoscope  on  the  chest  of  a  patient,  when  I  watched  the  first  operation,  when  I  heard  for  the  first  time  the  cry  ofa  newborn  baby.  I  was  proud  to  be  a  student  of  the  venerable  [REDACTED]  Medical  School.  During  the  day,  I  was  fully  occupied  with  attend-  ing  lectures  and  work  in  the  hospital,  but  when  evening  came  I  found  myself  in  a  trolley  car  travelling  to  the  Laaer-  berg.  I  was  determined  to  stick  to  my  medical  studies  and  not  to  be  swayed  by  any  temptation.  Even  Kerteész  seemed  reconciled  to  my  decision.  While  he  edited  the  rolls  of  film,  swearing  stead-  ily  about  omissions  either  by  the  actors  or  by  himself,  he  seemed  to  listen  to  my  accounts  of  my  day's  work.  Then,  in  the  projection  room,  we  watched  the  films,  and,  with  a  side  glance  at  me,  Kertész  would  often  mur-  mur  that  I  had  done  a  fine  job.  Lat-  er,  settling  down  in  the  office,  we  drank  Turkish  coffee,  often  long  after  midnight.  Next  morning,  I  would  wake  up  sleepy  and  tired.  Once,  in  a  lecture  on  gynecology  (Professor  Kermauner,  a  great  scholar,  was  an  unstimulating  lecturer),  I  was  awak-  ened  by  the  Professor  himself.  Shamed  before  my  laughing  colleagues,  I  apol-  ogized  and  swore  to  myself  that  from  here  on  I  would  be  in  bed  early.  I  kept  my  promise  for  a  few  days.  Then  I  travelled  again  to  the  Lagerberg.  In  April,  arriving  at  the  dormitory  from  a  lecture,  I  was  called  to  the  telephone.  It  was  Mother.  She  sounded  despondent.  Father  had  found  out  about  my  summer  excursion.  How?  He  had  been  congratulated  about  his  &quot;great  actor  son.&quot;  Father  was  so  angry  he  would  not  even  speak  to  her.  I  should  think  what  to  say,  she  warned  me;  she  had  run  out  of  all  possible  ex-  planations.  I  thought  of  not  going  home  for  the  weekend,  but  then  I  decided  I  might  as  well  face  the  inevitable.  I  ar-  rived  on  the  afternoon  train,  after  lunch  (lunch  is  the  main  meal  in  Cen-  tral  Europe),  to  have  time  to  talk  with  Mother  alone.  Father  had  not  changed,  she  said.  He  still  refused  to  speak  to  her.  But,  in  spite  of  her  des-  perate  mood,  Mother  couldnot  repress  her  feelings:  she  had  seen  the  movies  and  she  thought  I  was  very  good.  We  did  not  have  long  to  talk;  the  tele-  phone  rang  and  I  was  summoned  to  Father's  office.  When  I  went  in,  he  only  nodded,  sitting  behind  his  desk,  on  which  papers,     -Howarp  Moss  letters,  files  were  arranged  in  impec-  cable  order.  Unperturbed  by  my  pres-  ence,  he  signed  one  paper  after  another.  I  waited  for  his  wrath  to  fall  on  me.  It  never  did.  After  a  few  minutes,  he  placed  his  pen  on  the  desk  and  fixed  me  with  his  gray-green  eyes.  &quot;If  you  go  on  as  you  are,&quot;  he  said  without  raising  his  voice,  &quot;you  will  be  regarded  as  a  fool.  No  one  will  ever  take  you  seriously-neither  medical  school  nor  your  movie  people.  No  one  can  serve  two  masters  [Niemaend  kann  zwei  Herren  dienen].  You  must  make  up  your  mind.  You  are  already  twenty-  two.&quot;  SO  I  made  up  my  mind:  medicine.  And  the  more  I  progressed  in  my  studies,  the  more  engrossed  I  became.  My  contact  with  Kertész  did  not  cease-the  contrary.  We  met  more  often  than  ever  in  the  Café  Arkaden,  where  we  spoke  about  many  things,  in-  cluding  moviemaking.  I  even  signed  autographs-but  my  past  achievements  belonged  to  a  closed  past.  Once,  he  said  casually  that  he  contemplated  making  a  picture  about  a  doctor's  life,  and  I  thought  he  was  watching  me  from  the  corner  of  his  eye.  One  day,  I  was  called  out  from  a  surgery  lecture.  A  messenger  was  waiting  in  the  hall  with  a  note.  I  should  come  immediately  to  the  Laaerberg.  I  thought  there  was  something  physi-  cally  wrong  with  Kertész  and  left  at  once.  He  was  waiting  for  me  in  his  office,  looking  perfectly  healthy  and  dressed  in  his  gray  checked  holiday  suit  (or-  dinarily,  at  all  seasons,  he  wore  a  short-sleeved  black  sweater).  Without  saying  a  word,  he  handed  me  a  tele-  gram.  I  read  it.  UFA  had  invited  him  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  conference.  &quot;Congratulations,&quot;  I  said.  I  was  really  happy  for  him.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  he  said  impatiently.  &quot;My  car  is  waiting  to  take  us  to  the  station.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;Don't  ask  questions.&quot;  He  pushed  me  ahead  of  him  to  the  door.  &quot;But  I  don't  have  even  an  extra  shirt,&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;You'll  get  it  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  The  train  ride  lasted  fourteen  hours.  We  rode  in  a  sleeper,  Kertész  in  the  upper  berth.  I  scarcely  closed  my  eyes  the  whole  night.  Kertész  talked  in-  cessantly,  climbing  up  and  down  the  ladder-now  for  a  glass  of  water,  another  time  for  a  bottle  of  cognac;  he  never  stopped  smoking.  I  was  glad  when  the  first  daylight  filtered  through  the  window  curtains  and  I  could  get  up.  I  was  hungry-I  realized  that  I  hadn't  eaten  since  lunch  the  previous  day.  We  arrived  at  the  Potsdamer  Bahn-  hof  at  five  in  the  afternoon.  There  I  sent  a  telegram  to  my  parents  to  say  where  I  was  and  that  I  would  explain  in  a  letter  the  circumstances  of  my  trip.  At  the  film  company  we  were  greeted  by  the  Regisseur-the  director-a  tall,  stout  man.  UFA  was  always  searching  for  new  talent,  he  said,  and  they  had  been  watching  Kertész'  work  in  the  Sascha  Company  with  interest.  How-  ever,  the  Sascha  Company  was  small,     comparatively  unknown.  Before  UFA  could  offer  Kertész  a  contract,  he  would  have  to  prove  himself  in  [REDACTED].  As  a  test,  they  would  like  him  to  direct  the  first  part  of  a  film  with  a  Hungar-  ian  theme  (it  was  called  something  like  &quot;Sunset  on  the  Puszta&quot;).  He  was  to  start  immediately;  in  a  neighboring  room,  half  a  dozen  cameramen  and  technicians  were  waiting  for  him.  Then  the  Regisseur  turned  to  me  and  asked  who  I  was.  Kertész  said  that  I  was  the  pillar  of  the  Sascha  Company.  He  had  thought  they  would  want  to  meet  me.  Without  even  taking  time  to  wash  up,  Kertész  went  to  work.  At  first  he  was  jittery,  but  within  a  day  or  two  he  found  himself-authoritative,  abusive,  ingenious.  Only  at  night,  when  we  had  a  nightcap  together,  did  hehave  doubts.  Would  he  get  the  contract?  I  wrote  home  assuring  my  parents  that  my  [REDACTED]  excursion  was  no  relapse  into  the  movie  world.  One  night  three  weeks  after  our  ar-  rivalin  [REDACTED],  Kertész  stumbled  into  my  room.  His  face  was  deadly  pale  and  he  was  perspiring  profusely.  With  trembling  fingers,  he  took  a  sheet  of  paper  from  his  pocket-his  contract.  It  was  high  time  for  me  to  get  back  to  medical  school.  During  the  train  ride  back  to  Vien-  na,  Kertész  slept  like  a  child,  although  as  a  precaution  I  took  the  upper  berth.  I  could  not  sleep  this  time,  either.  Had  I  been  honestwith  myself?  The  weeks  in  [REDACTED]  had  wakened  my  dormant  feelings  for  the  world  of  the  screen.  Revolutionary  changes  were  taking  place-indoor  ateliers,  the  first  experi-  ments  withsound.  TheUFA  people  had  been  kind  to  me;  I  had  been  given  a  film  test.  Now  I  was  going  back  to  the  dreary  world  of  everyday-another  year  in  medical  school.  And  then?  A  doctor,  one  among  thousands.  KERTEW’  contract  with  the  Sas-  cha  Film  Company  had  just  ex-  pired,  and  he  was  winding  up  his  af-  fairs  on  the  Lagaerberg.  We  met  daily  until  his  departure.  I  went  with  him  to  the  railway  station  to  see  him  off  for  [REDACTED].  For  several  months  after  that,  I  had  no  news  from  Kertész.  I  knew  that  he  did  not  believe  in  letter  writing  (&quot;a  petit-bourgeois  habit,&quot;  he  would  say).  It  was  in  June,  1925  (I  remember  the  date,  because  the  day  before  I  had  passed  my  pathology  exam),  that  I  received  a  telegram  from  him.  It  had  been  sent  from  [REDACTED],  and  I  tore  it  open  impatiently.  I  read:  &quot;YOUR  CON-  TRACT  READY  STOP  COME  IMMEDI-  ATELY  STOP  MICHAEL  KERTESZ  UFA.&quot;  I  took  the  next  train  to  Sauerbrunn.  There  was  no  question  in  my  mind-  I  would  go  to  [REDACTED].  Father  was  not  at  home,  and  Mother  was  preparing  dinner.  I  gave  her  the  telegram,  scru-  tinizing  her  face  as  she  read  it.  She  had  aged.  Her  diabetes,  recently  discov-  ered,  had  taken  a  great  toll.  She  read  the  telegram  again  and  again,  her  hands  shaking.  &quot;I  understand,  Richard,&quot;  she  said  at  last  in  her  gentle  voice.  &quot;It  is  a  great  honor.  But&quot;  sighed  deeply-'&quot;fin-  ish  your  studies  first.  A  doctor  can  al-  ways  become  an  actor,  but  an  actor  can  never  become  a  doctor.&quot;  EARS  passed,  and  decades.  I  did  not  hear  from  Kertész  after  I  wrote  explaining  that  I  must  finish  my  studies.  But  my  early  experience  in  the  theatre  haunted  me,  As  a  country  doctor,  I  arranged  amateur  perform-  ances  at  country  fairs.  Later,  on  the  Ivory  Coast,  where  I  was  a  colonial  sur-  geon,  I  amazed  my  fellow-colons  once  when,  with  natives  as  actors,  I  pro-  duced  a  Ferenc  Molnér  comedy.  Still  later,  in  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  children's  camp  where  I  was  camp  doctor,  I  direct-  ed  the  children  in  a  Sholom  Aleichem  play.  In  the  early  forties,  &quot;Casablanca&quot;  was  a  much  celebrated  movie  in  Ameri-  ca.  It  had  been  directed  by  a  Michael  Curtiz.  One  day,I  saw  his  picture  in  a  magazine-a  late-middle-aged  man,  with  a  quizzical  smile  around  the  lips.  Wasn't  he  my  old  director,  Kertész?  I  wrote  to  him  in  [REDACTED].  No  answer.  I  must  have  been  mistaken,  I  thought.  But  years  later,  returning  from  a  summer  vacation,  I  found  among  the  letters  that  had  accumulated  during  my  absence  a  note  in  Hungar-  ian  :  Sorry  I  couldn't  answer  earlier.  Al-  ways  busy.  Now,  while  visiting  a  play-  wright  in  New  York,  I  called  your  num-  ber.  No  luck,  You  were  away.  I  would  have  likedto  meet  you,  talk  about  the  old  times,  the  Laaerberg,  &quot;Sodom  and  Gomorrah.&quot;  Wasn't  it  good  to  be  young?  I  was  happy  to  hear  that  you  have  a  family  and  a  good  practice.  But  I  must  say  that  you  had  talent-blockhead.  I  was  sorry  to  have  missed  him.  Soon,  I  read  in  the  papers  that  Michael  Curtiz  had  died, 