 b"WITH  the  common  stock  of  McDonald's  and  the  other  glamour  franchisers  tobog-  ganing  from  overpriced  to  oversold  in  today's  market,  this  seems  a  good  time  to  review  for  Burry,  Mendl,  Foxholm,  Tanniger,  Brayhagen,  Cholt,  Green-  warren  &amp;  Wolveringstone  customers  the  potential  of  some  of  the  lesser-  known  entries  in  the  &quot;fast  food&quot;  field.  This  week's  newsletter,  then,  brings  you  our  fry  analyst's  appraisal  of  the  more  likely  buys  among  six  or  eight  dozen  recent  listings.  An  asterisk  marks  those  firms  in  which  stock  options  are  available  to  store  customers  in  lieu  of  a  pickle  slice.  GrasABrreE*:  This  conservatively  managed  smaller  chain  (870  outlets  since  its  founding  nearly  four  months  ago)  seeks  narrow-frontage  locations  in  the  high-density  urban  areas.  Fran-  chisees  are  encouraged  to  aim  for  low  overhead  by  buying  up  leases  of  watch  repairers  and  keymakers.  GrabABite  is  known  in  industry  lingo  as  a  &quot;Mama  or  Papa&quot;  operation.  To  make  the  mini-  mum-footage  locations  pay,  high  cus-  tomer  turnover  is  a  must,  and  this  is  achieved  through  a  unique  patented  feature  in  the  franchise  package.  After  an  hour's  instruction  in  wrapping  and  bagging,  and  another  in  relish  control,  the  remaining  five  hours  the  new  fran-  chisee  spends  at  GrabABite  Univer-  sity,  the  corporation's  modern  train-  ing  center  in  Plandome,  Long  Island,  are  devoted  to  acquiring  dexterity  in  operating  discreetly  hidden  pedals  that  control  the  store's  oversized  heating  and  air-conditioning  units.  There  are  few  dawdlers  at  GrabABite  counters.  Marc  Sprrz?  Dir  'n  Drir*\xc2\xae:  This  thoughtfully  managed  chain,  now  well  into  its  fourth  week  of  operation,  is  pegged  to  a  &quot;roast&quot;  &quot;beef&quot;  on  &quot;bun,&quot;  generously  soaked  in  a  zesty  gravy.  Sales  volume,  so  far,  exceeds  expectations,  but  cautious  investors  are  advised,  pending  developments,  to  opt  for  the  pickle.  Accurate  growth  projections  must  await  the  outcome  of  litigation  now  in  the  [REDACTED]  courts.  Attorneys  for  former  Miss  [REDACTED]  Valerie  Jean  Nisselhouse  seek  an  injunction  against  use  of  her  likeness  in  connection  with  a  fried-chicken  franchiser  called  Bucket  o'  Thighs.  This  litigation  might  have  the  effect  of  also  banning  the  Dip  'n  Drip  logo,  which  features  a  bun  dressed  in  Olympic  swimming  trunks  that  drip  gravy.  In  the  event  of  a  similar  chal-  lenge,  Marcus  U.  Spitzberger,  who  owns  three  per  cent  of  the  franchiser's  stock,  is  prepared  to  testify  that  he  has  been  known  as  &quot;Spitzy&quot;  or  &quot;Spitz&quot;  since  he  was  a  pupil  in  the  fourth  grade  at  the  Sycamore  Street  Elementary  School,  in  4368696e61,  [REDACTED],  some  seven  years  before  natator  Mark  A.  Spitz  was  born,  and  that  he  has  long  been  an  avid  swimmer  and  a  contributor,  through  office  collections  and  street  cans,  to  the  [REDACTED]  Olympic  Fund.  In-  siders  believe  the  franchise  corporation  will  win  any  injunction  suit  brought  by  the  champion  swimmer  if  the  precedent  set  two  years  ago  by  its  principal  officer,  Gerald  Frink,  obtains.  In  that  action,  attorneys  for  a  famous  film  comedian  withdrew  hissuit  to  enjoin  Frink,  the  owner  of  a  modest  hamburger  stand  near  a  federal  penitentiary  in  Pennsyl-  vania,  from  calling  the  shop  Jerry  LewisBurg.  As  of  yesterday,  Jerry  LewisBurg,  Inc.,  boasted  11,234  out-  lets.  Mr.  Burt:  The  appeal  of  this  art-  fully  managed  chain  (7,600  franchises,  six  of  which  have  already  opened)  is  generous  portions  that  offer  a  fair  shake  for  a  dollar.  Outlets  are  planned  to  attract  the  heartier  appetites  found  along  truck  routes,  near  schoolyards,  and  an  hour's  drive  from  major  Chi-  nese  restaurants.  Basic  menu  item  is  the  &quot;Mr.  Bulk&quot;  that  gives  the  chain  its  name.  This  is  a  hot  food  approximately  eight  inches  long,  four  inches  wide,  and  two  inches  thick,  affording  sixty-four  cubic  inches  of  what  management  de-scribes  as  &quot;solid  eating  pleasure.&quot;  Ac-  cording  to  Burton  Yerby,  president  of  the  franchise  corporation,  the  Mr.  Bulk  provides  up  to  twelve  per  cent  of  minimum  hourly  requi  r  ements  of  three  di  ffere  nt  vitamins  and  minerals.  Yerby  cla  ims  that  his  &quot;food  aggregate,&quot;  as  the  Mr.  Bulk  is  technically  known,  &quot;wil  l  revolutionize  the  food  industry  pretty  much  as  the  cinder  block  did  the  building  trades.&quot;  A  substantial  campaign  is  alrea  dy  u  nder  way  to  in-  troduce  the  public  to  Abner  Brokaw,  a  genial,  six  -foot-five-inch  ,  barrel-  chested  former  wrecking-ball  operator  and  alligator  wrestler,  who  adapted  the  Mr.  Bulk  from  an  old  family  re  cipe.  A  one  -min  ute  TV  spot  soon  to  f  lood  the  a  irwav  e  s  show  s  Mr.  Brokaw  in  his  back  y  ard  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  with  his  well-endowed  wife,  husky  parents,  six  active  teen-age  sons,  and  cigh  t  Lab-  rador  retrievers  all  gathered  around  in  high  anticipation  as  he  hand-bu  il  ds  a  mess  of  Mr.  Bulks.  Commercially,  of  course,  the  procedure  is  completely  automated,  and  t  he  franchisce's  heaviest  cash  outlay  is  for  a  patented  modifica-  tion  of  a  machine  originally  designed  to  extrude  aluminum  sash.  Tur  Burce  'n  WarriE:  This  &quot;ice  cream&quot;  and  waffle  operation  depends  on  what  may  be  the  cleverest  markup  scheme  in  the  fast-food  field.  Nine  years  ago,  when  labor  and  flour  costs  were  half  what  they  aretoday,  Batter  Masters,  a  food  processor,  mixed  and  baked  seven  and  a  half  million  gross  of  waffles  in  anticipation  of  lucrative  contracts  with  concessionaires  at  up-  coming  trade  and  regional  fairs.  When  competitive  bidding  awarded  the  busi-  ness  to  TasteBuddies  (a  subsidiaryof  Colonial  Sand  &amp;  Gravel),  Batter  Mas-  ters'  waffles  were  quick-frozen  and  stored  by  its  creditors  in  vaults  deep  in  the  Adirondacks.  Now  they  are  being  thawed  in  hundred-thousand-gross  lots,  and  sold,  at  today's  prices,  in  nearly  sixteen  thousand  Bulge  'n  Waffle  out-  lets.  A  buy  at  yesterday's  close-14.  BURRY,  Mend],  Foxholm,  Tanni-  2  ger,  Brayhagen,  Cholt,  Green-  warren  &amp;  Wolveringstone  has  under-  written  the  stock  of  the  above  cor-  porations.  Partners  may  have  moder-  ate  to  substantial  equities  in  each.  The  B.M.F.T.B.C.G.  &amp;  W.  employees  cafeteria  is  under  the  supervision  of  GrabABite.  Marcus  U.  Spitzberger  is  a  brother-in-law  of  Curtis  Burry  and  a  son-in-law  of  J.  T.  Brayhagen.  Bur-  ton  Yerby,  president  of  Mr.  Bulk,  is  a  squash  partner  of  Hal  Foxholm.  "