 b"HOW  Lavinia  and  I  got  to  talk-ing  at  the  party  about  birds,  I  don't  remember.  But  it  was  only  natural  that  we  should.  She  worked  for  the  Audubon  Society,  and  I  was  illustrating  an  anthology  of  bird  poems  for  a  university  in  [REDACTED].  Her  husband,  a  university  administrator,  was  at  the  party,  too.  There  he  sat  in  an  armchair,  ponderous,  with  an  empty  glass  in  his  hand.  He  seemed  to  be  waiting  for  someone  to  refill  it,  but  no  one  was  about  to.  He  looked  into  its  emptiness  miserably.  Red-faced,  sunk  in  the  armchair,  he  made  you  wonder  if  he  was  sober  enough  to  get  up  and  walk  over  to  the  bottles.  Finally,  he  managed  to.  That  year-my  second  at  the  uni-  versity-I  was  living  alone,  my  wife  having  decided  to  stay  with  the  children  in  [REDACTED].  I  felt  free-lived  like  a  bachelor,  unattached  and  ever  looking  for  attachment.  As  Lavinia  talked  about  birds,  I  saw  in  her  their  grace,  their  brightness,  but  more  especially  their  lightness-a  light  and  winged  poise  that  contrasted  with  the  earthbound  heaviness  of  everyone  else  in  the  room.  The  armchairs,  the  carpets  seemed  to  claim  us;  we  seemed  part  of  them,  part  of  the  upholstery,  the  floor.  But  she,  as  she  talked  about  the  skylark,  looked  singularly  like  one,  and  I  heard  the  trill  of  wings,  the  upward  rush,  saw  the  skyward  spiral  surge,  heard  the  ring  of  joy.  Looking  at  her,  listening  to  her,  it  was  hard  not  to  be-  lieve  in  metempsychosis:  that  in  an-  other  life  she  had  been  or  would  be  a  skylark.  We  went  on  to  talk  about  other  birds.  In  an  effort  to  describe  them,  she  took  on  some  of  their  atti-  tudes,  turning  her  head  quickly  to  this  side  and  to  that.  And  her  laugh  seemed  a  reflection  of  their  delight.  Sometimes  a  tremulous  quality  in  her  words  brought  to  mind  their  twitter  and  their  chirp.  Sometimes  her  voice  flowed  liq-  uid,  shrill.  Even  the  coral  of  her  lips,  the  blue  of  her  eyes,  the  yellow  of  her  lacy  dress  evoked  the  feathery  tones  I  had  been  painting.  Or  had  I,like  her  husband,  had  too  much  to  drink?  No,  I  was  drinking  from  a  different  source-headier,  more  exhilarating  than  wine.  &quot;In  the  spring,&quot;  she  suddenly  said  with  more  zest  and  greater  expectation  than  if  she  had  been  talking  about  Nureyev,  &quot;would  you  like  to  go  and  see  the  prairie  chickens  dance?&quot;  &quot;T'  d  love  to.&quot;  &quot;Down  near  a  little  town  you  never  heard  of,  in  the  southern  part  of  this  state,  a  stretch  of  the  prairies  has  been  preserved  for  them,  and  there,  early  in  the  spring,  very  early  in  the  morning,  they  dance  as  they  do  farther  west  all  over  the  prairies.  It's  a  mating  dance-  a  strange  ritual,  Oh,  you  should  see  them!&quot;  She  tilted  her  head  back,  her  eyes  closed,  her  mouth  gaped  ecstati-  cally.  &quot;They  dance  and  they  boom,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;Boom?&quot;  &quot;That's  the  sound  they  make.  Like  a  trough  in  the  wind.  Do  you  want  to  go?  It's  an  overnight  trip.&quot;  I  looked  at  the  pretty  woman.  &quot;Of  course  I  want  to  go.&quot;  &quot;But  I  don't  drive.  You'll  have  to  drive.&quot;  &quot;I'll  drive.  But  doesn't  Doug  want  to  go?&quot;  I  said,  referring  to  her  hus-  band.  &quot;He  isn't  interested  in  birds,&quot;  she  said,  and  we  glanced  over  at  him  on  the  other  side  of  the  room.  And  most  uninterested  he  looked,  except  in  the  drink  he  was  nursing.  &quot;We'll  get  a  little  party  together,  three  or  four  maybe,  and  go.&quot;  &quot;I  thought-I  hoped-you  meant  just  you  and  I.&quot;  She  looked  at  me  and  smiled.  &quot;May-  be  I  won't  be  able  to  get  anybody  else.&quot;  &quot;Then  we'll  go  alone.&quot;  She  laughed  noncommittally.  &quot;Spring  is  such  a  long  time  off,&quot;  I  said.  It  was  only  September.  For  several  weeks  after  that,  I  didn't  see  her,  but  I  sent  her  a  poem  about  a  skylark  by  Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay.  And  often  I  thought  of  the  dance  birds  whose  stage  was  the  prairie.  One  day,  I  met  Lavinia  as  she  was  going  into,  and  I  out  of,  a  drugstore.  &quot;Have  you  found  anyone  else  who  wants  to  go  see  the  prairie  chickens?&quot;  she  said.  (\xe2\x80\x98N0.\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;I  haven't,  either.&quot;  &quot;Let's  go  alone,  just  you  and  I.&quot;  She  laughed  as  she  had  at  the  party  and  squeezed  my  hand  and  left.  What  didshe  mean?  That  it  was  impossible?  That  her  husband  would  never  let  her  go  with  me  alone?  Because  of  the  way  I  looked  at  her,  I  suppose,  as  if  I  were  trying  to  draw  from  the  sight  of  her  pleasures  that  sight  couldn't  grant,  that  only  touch  gave.  Or  was  it  just  a  polite  way  of  saying  no?  Perhaps.  But  she liked  me.  Once,  she  asked  me  over  for  supper  at  their  house.  &quot;I'm  not  a  very  good  cook,&quot;  she  warned  me  on  the  telephone.  &quot;Oh,  Pd  come  if  you  were  only  going  to  serve  broken  eggshells.&quot;  She  greeted  me  with  a  kiss,  and  with  a  kiss  we  parted.  At  a  birthday  dinner  fora  friend,  we  found  that  she  and  I  were  born  the  same  year  on  almost  the  same  day.  The  knowledge  drew  us  closer.  &quot;You  are  the  only  one  I  really  feel  like  talking  to,&quot;  I  said  to  her  later.  &quot;I  feel  the  same  way,&quot;  she  said.  She  told  me  she  had  been  looking  for  someone  to  goon  the  trip  with  us.  &quot;Don't  look  too  hard,&quot;  I  said.  T  the  end  of  February,  Lavinia  still  hadn't  found  anyone  so  inter-  ested  in  birds  as  to  take  a  two-hundred-  and-fifty-mile  trip  to  see  them.  For  not  only  was  the  place  far  away,  to  see  them  dance  we  would  have  to  get  up  before  dawn.  It  would  be  windy  and  cold  out  on  the  prairie.  We  would  have  to  stay  pent  up  for  hours  in  a  little  hut-a  blind,  she  called  it.  It  all  sounded  quite  acceptable  to  me,  especially  if  we  were  going  to  be  alone.  But  alone  we  would  not  be.  At  a  party  one  evening,  Diana-a  friend  of  Lavinia's,  an  imposing  woman,  an  inveterate  bird-watcher-said  she  would  go  with  us.  She  was  a  perfect-  ly  nice  person,  witty,  good  company,  and  about  our  age,  but  I  immediately  viewed  her  with  the  faint  hostility  teen-  agers  feel  toward  their  chaperons.  So  now  there  were  three  of  us,  and  the  trip  was  spoiled  for  me  before  it  had  even  started.  I  tried  to  think  of  a  way  of  backing  out  of  it.  But  I  felt  committed;  they  were  relying  on  me  and  my  car.  No,  I  couldn't  possibly  back  down.  Arrangements  were  made  for  two  rooms  in  a  motel,  and  for  someone  from  the  preserve  to  meet  us  at  four  in  the  morning,  in  a  barn.  We  set  off,  with  a  map  and  directions.  Two  hundred  and  fifty  miles.  It  seemed  more.  [REDACTED]  stretches  a  long  way  north  and  south.  I  hoped  for  the  weather  to  get  warmer,  but  it  stayed  the  same  as  in  [REDACTED].  I  watched  for  signs  of  spring-forsythia  in  bloom,  greener  fields,  swallows-but  saw  none.  I  listened  to  the  women  talking  to  each  other,  but  soon  lost  the  trend  of  the  conversation.  I  felt  like  a  driver-their  driver-left  out.  There  they  were,  old  friends,  with  their  pri-  vate  jokes  and  their  talk  of  people  whom  I  didn't  know.  Two  married  women.  Their  husbands  hadn't  wanted  to  drive  them,  so  I  had.  A  fool.  And  I  thought  of  the  pretty  girls  I  knew  " b"back  at  the  university,  half  their  age,  half  my  age,  too,  of  course,  but  will-  ing  to  go  out  with  me  for  some  damn  reason.  Art,  I  suppose-art  that  lends  fire.  There  was  some  firein  me  yet,  though  smoldering  under  an  ashen  veil.  Warmth,  for  God's  sake,  even  if  no  searing  heat.  Life-engendering  warmth.  Was  that  what  they  saw  in  me?  Anyway,  something.  Then  what  was  I  doing  with  these  two?  We  stopped  for  gas.  Neither  of  them  offered  to  chip  in,  and  my  car  an  old  Cadillac,  the  price  of  gas  almost  double  what  it  was  a  year  ago.  Itried  to  be  cheerful.  There  was  a  beautiful  sunset.  In  [REDACTED],  I  would  probably  have  missed  it  or  seen  only  a  slight  tinge  of  it  reflected  on  the  living-room  wall.  Here  half  the  sky  was  the  color  of  peach  blossoms.  At  last,  in  the  dark,  we  came  to  the  village  near  which  the  prairie  chickens  lived.  But  though  there  was  a  motel  there,  we  had  to  drive  twenty  more  miles  to  a  better  one-  the  one  they  had  reserved  our  rooms  in.  Diana  said,  &quot;Once  we've  seen  the  birds  we'll  go  back  to  the  motel  for  a  nap,  won't  we,  before  we  start  on  home?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  of  course,&quot;  Lavinia  said.  Eighty  miles  added  to  the  journey,  I  laboriously  figured.  We  checked  in  at  the  motel.  The lady  behind  the  counter  assumed  that  I  was  with  Lavinia,.  &quot;You  are  to-  gether?&quot;  she  asked.  To  which  Lavinia,  with  an  emphasis  that  sounded  almost  rude  to  me,  answered,  &quot;No,  he's  alone.  We  are  together.&quot;  We  registered.  I  carried  their  bags,  like  a  lackey.  &quot;We'll  call  you,&quot;  they  said.  For  supper,  they  meant.  I  went  into  my  room  and  looked  at  the  two  large  double  beds.  After  a  while-at  least  twenty  min-  utes-they  phoned.  They  had  drinks  and  hors  d'oeuvres  spread  out.  Rather  touching.  I  decided  that  these  women  knew  how  to  travel.  I  cheered  up.  I  had  brought  along  my  book  of  bird  poems,  but  I  could  see  they  didn't  want  to  hear  any,  so  I  didn't  even  mention  it.  Drinks  and  food.  Then  off  to  din-  ner,  and  more  drinks  and  food.  Then  drinks  again  in  their  bedroom.  During  the  long  winter,  I  had  imagined  that  at  about  this  point  I  would  perform  a  little  dance,  imitative  of  the  prairie  chicken-a  mating  dance,  just  before  love.  Now  I  sighed  instead,  smiled  faintly.  The  talk  was  about  alarm  clocks,  We  had  each  brought  one.  We  decided  to  set  them  for  three-fifteen.  I  went  to  sleep  in  my  room  and  woke  up  at  that  time.  Soon  I  was  ready  to  go.  When  they  were  ready,  around  four,  we  had  some  instant  coffee,  then     &quot;And  this  is  my  puppet,  Mr.  Chichester.&quot;  drove  twenty  miles  back  to  the  village  near  the  preserve,  only  to  learn  that  Lavinia  had  left  in  the  motel  the  map  giving  directions  to  findthe  barn  where  we  were  to  meet,.  If  we  re-  turned  for  it,  we  would  probably  miss  the  whole  show.  Already  the  sky  was  lightening  toward  the  east.  For  over  an  hour,  we  wandered  along  unpaved,  unmarked  roads  in  the  prairie,  &quot;I  wish  I  had  a  drop  of  cyanide,&quot;  Lavinia  said.  I  had  given  up  all  hope  of  finding  the  place  when  we  saw  a  jeep  with  park-  ing  lights  on  next  to  a  barn.  Quickly  we  drove  to  it.  Our  man  was  there.  He  led  us  to  the  blind  and  left  us.  T  first,  there  seemed  to  be  no  crea-  tures  in  the  dim  solitude  but  us;  then,  little  by  little,  they  appeared,  the  prairie  chickens,  some  hundred  feet  away  in  the  grass,  one  here,  one  there,  in  these  their  ancestral  grounds,  where  perhaps  for  millennia  they  had  con-  vened.  Unseen  by  them,  we  watched.  About  twenty  were  scattered  through  the  field.  Smaller  than  ordinary  chick-  ens-nearer  the  size  of  pigeons.  No  prairie  hens  were  visible  as  yet,  only  prairie  cocks.  With  head  feathers  stuck  up  like  horns  or  the  ears  of  hare,  bril-  liant  orange  air  sacs  on  each  side  of  the  neck,  the  rest  of  the  body  mottled  rufous  and  black  above,  barred  blackish  and  white  below,  with  short  and  rounded  tail,  they  pranced  about  or  stood  immobile  and  watchful.  With  their  air  sacs  they  hummed,  they  boomed.  The  sound  rose  and  fell  with  the  wind.  A  peculiar  crooning  sound.  A  chorus.  Softer  than  the  wind's  rustle,  softer  than  its  soughing,  and  more  tune-  ful.  A  strange,  mysterious  murmur  of  a  voice,  rising  from  the  plain  and  ebbing,  to  rise  again,  soft,  warm,  and  alive.  The  grass  stirred  with  it.  Sometimes  it  ceased  altogether.  'Then  mysteriously  they  disappeared.  We  didn't  see  them  fly  away.  They  just  vanished  from  our  sight  to  reappear  as  mysteriously  a  few  minutes  later.  Had  a  hawk  fright,  ened  them,  or  inadvertently  had  we?  And  the  dance?  A  pair  of  the  cocks  approached  each  other,  looked  at  each  other  fiercely,  leaped  into  the  air  but  did  not  touch,  came  down,  retreated  a  few  steps,  again  went  forward,  stomped  or,  turkeylike,  brushed  their  wings  upon  the  ground,  looked  once  more  at  one  another  fiercely,  only  to  retreat.  For  a  long  while,  we  saw  no  hens.  Then  two  appeared.  Meek.  Less  colorful,  sedate,  they  didn't  look  like  creatures  one  should  want  to  fight  over.  And,  indeed,  the  cocks  didn't  seem  to  pay  them  any  attention.  They  still  wandered  about  the  field  and  met  and  faced  each  other  and  leaped  and     " b"backed  away,  to  return  and  leap  once  more  and  alight  and  back  away,  and  wander  in  the  field  until  the  next  en-  counter.  Was  it  a  dance?  Lavinia  called  it  so,  and  I  didn't  contradict  her.  I  didn't  want  to  appear  disap-  pointed.  I  wasn't  really-the  booming  sound  was  filled  with  wonder.  Still,  it  was  strange  they  shouldn't  mate.  La-  vinia  had  called  it  a  mating  dance,  but  it  was  clear  there  was  no  mating  go-  ing  on.  &quot;Why  aren't  they  mating?&quot;  she  finally  said.  &quot;Maybe  we're  a  bad  influence,&quot;  I  said.  Diana  said  nothing;  she  just  kept  on  observing  the  birds  with  her  binoc-  ulars.  They  were  tireless,  those  two.  In  the  cold,  drafty  blind,  I  snuggled  close  to  Lavinia  for  warmth.  We  were  there  for  hours-till  eight  o'clock.  Then  we  returned  to  our  motel  for  breakfast,  a  nap,  and  lunch,  and  drove  back  to  [REDACTED].  STILL  see  Lavinia  once  in  a  while.  She  sends  me  notes,  books,  poems.  But  it's  all  very  innocent.  Even  when I  think  it  won't  be,  it  turns  out  to  be.  Yesterday,  for  instance,  while  her  hus-  band  was  away  for  a  few  days,  we  went  out  to  see-just  she  and  I  this  time-the  woodcocks  in  a  park  not  far  from  the  city.  They  are  supposed  to  rise  from  the  ground  and  soar  high  like  skylarks.  At  dusk  and  dawn,  and  sometimes  during  the  night.  In  a  show  of  love.  But  we  couldn't  see  any.,  We  had  a  drink  at  my  place,  another  at  her  house.  That  she  should  have  picked  a  time  when  her  husband  was  away  I  thought  significant.  So  I  made  ad-  vances,  tried  to  make  up  for  prairie  chickens  and  woodcocks,  too.  But  to  no  avail.  &quot;My  dear,  you  are  a  dove,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  and  your  husband,  you  are  as  paired  as  doves.  It's  no  matter  that  he's  away.  Silently,  invisibly,  he  holds  you.  There's  nothing  I  can  do.&quot;  &quot;Just  kiss,&quot;  she  said.  I  kissed  lips  that  would  not  part.  &quot;Good  night,&quot;  I  said.  Home  in  bed,  I  thought  of  a  friend  of  mine  who,  soon  after  arriving  from  4974616c79  to  teach  in  [REDACTED],  bought  a  car.  At  a  service  station,  a  girl  in  another   car  happened  to  smile  at  him.  He  took  that  as  an  invitation  and  followed  her  when  she  drove  away.  She  led  him  straight  to  a  police  station,  where  he  had  to  do  a  good  deal  of  explaining.  I  went  to  sleep  and  woke  to  the  sound  of  the  mourning  dove,  how  close  I  could  not  tell-hollow,  airy,  most  im-  material  of  sounds,  pure  to  the  highest  degree.  And  it  made  me  think  of  La-  vinia  again,  and  of  the  other  dove,  who  must  be  her  husband,  and  I  see  him  slumped  in  an  armchair,  a  most  unlike-  ly  dove,  and  I  can't  understand.  "