 b"SHE  hurried  home  from  the  neigh-bor's  house  to  have  a  few  spare  moments  to  herself.  The  rooms  were  stripped,  the  windows  bare,  the  dust  and  the  disrepair  of  the  ledges  totally  revealed,  everything  gone  ex-  cept  forthe  few  things  she  insisted  on  taking  herself-a  geranium,  a  ewer,  and  a  few  little  china  coffee  cups  that  miraculously  had  escaped  being  broken.  There  was  a  broom  against  the  wall-  a  soft  green  twig  that  scarcely  grazed  the  floor  or  penetrated  to  the  rubble  adhering  there.  Neighbors  were  good  on  the  day  one  moved  house.  No,  that  was  not  fair.  She  had  had  good  neighbors,  and  a  variety  of  them,  in  [REDACTED].  She  had  spent  nights  with  them,  got  drunk  with  some  of  them,  slept  with  one  of  them  and  later  re-  gretted  it,  quarrelled  with  one  of  them,  and  with  one  woman  had  made  a  definite  plan  to  have  a  walk  in  the  country  once  a  week,  but  excuses  had  always  intervened,  hers  and  the  wom-  an's.  She  went  to  the  children's  room  and  hollered,  &quot;Hey  round  the  corner  po-po,  waiting  for  Henry  Lee.&quot;  This  was  the  room  where  nightly  her  children  used  to  squabble  over  who  would  have  the  top  bunk,  and  where  she  brought  cups  of  hot  milk,  thick  with  honey,  forthe  colds  and  congestions  they  did  not  have,  andwhere  her  elder  son  used  to  enjoy  looking  up  at  the  skylight,  listening  to  the  rain  go  pitter-patter,  hoping  for  the  snow  to  fall,  listening  (though  one  cannot  hear  it)  to  the  sun  coming  up  and  lighting  the  pane  of  glass,  watch-  ing  the  gradual  change  from  dark  sheet  to  transparent  sheet  and  then  to  a  resemblance  of  something  dipped  in  a  quick  wash  of  bright  morning  gold.  Her  son  had  dreamed  that  there  were  pink  flamingos  in  a  glass,  a  glass  that  he  was  drinking  from,  and  that  they  were  there  because  of  special  bacteria  in  the  water.  That  pink,  or  rather  those  multiples  of  feathered  pink,  layer  upon  layer,  could  compare  with  no  color  that  he  had  ever  seen.  He  feasted  on  it.  The  room  was  empty  except  for  the  marks  of  casters,  the  initial  &quot;E&quot;  daubed  on  the  wall,  and  the  various  stains.  When  sherepeated,  &quot;Hey  round  the  corner  po-po,&quot;'  there  was  not  the  slightest  hint  of  an  echo.  Ah  yes!  The  children  had  ritually  buried  a  coin  under  one  of  the  loose  floorboards,  and  no  doubt  it  was  down  there,  somewhere,  in  its  hole,  covered  with  dust  and  maybe  sheathed  with  cobweb.  The  night  she  had  served  their  father  with  a  custody  writ,  she  had  gone  all  around  the  house  and  lifted  off  the  telephones  and  watched  them  where  they  lay,  somehow  like  numbed  animals-black  things  or  white  things  ora  red  thing  that  had  gone  tempo-  rarily  dead.  In  the  middle  of  the  night,  her  husband  came  and  slipped  a  threat-  ening  letter  in  under  the  hall  door  (she  had  nailed  down  the  letter  flap),  and  she  was  there  cowering  and  waiting  for  it,  the  letter  saying,  &quot;They  are  mine,  they  are  not  yours,  you  are  going  to  be  a  nervous  corpse  if  you  take  this  to  court,  you  gain  nothing  except  your  gross  humiliation,  you  are  bound  to  lose,  I  cannot  show  youany  mercy,  I  am  really  determined  to  do  everything  within  the  law  to  get  custody  ofthose  children,  no  holds  barred.&quot;  She  had  read  it  and  reread  it  and  wrung  her  hands  and  wondered  how  she  could  have  married  such  a  man.  Another  time,  she  had  waited  in  the  hall,  being  too  shy  to  stand  at  the  window,  and  at  intervals  had  pushed  the  letter  slot  open  to  peep  out  into  space.  She  had  been  waiting  for  a  man  who  did  not  appear.  They  happened  to  have  the  same  birthday,  and  that  fac-  tor  along  with  his  smile  made  her  think  somehow  he  would  come,  and,  listening  forthe  car  or  the  taxi,  she  had  found  herself  in  a  particular  stance,  a  stance  repeated  from  long  ago,  wai  ing  behind  a  window  in  a  flannel  nicht,  gown  for  a  man,  her  father,  who  any-  how  might  thrash  her  to  death.  It  was  as  if  all  those  past  states  only  begged  to  be  repeated,  to  be  relived,  to  goon  for-  ever  and  ever,  amen.  Those  things  were  like  knots  that  bound  her.  HE  house  had  been  her  fortress.  And  yet  there  were  snags.  The  time  when  a  total  stranger  knocked,  a  tall  thin  man  asking  if  he  could  have  a  word  with  her,  stepping  in-  side  onto  the  rubber  mat  and  telling  her  that  he  had  no  intention  of  leaving  her  alone.  It  happened  to  be  late  spring,  and  he  was  framed  by  the  hawthorn  tree,  and,  looking  at  it  and  the  soft  nearly  emergent  petals,  she  thought,  If  I  pretend  not  to  be  in  the  least  bit  afraid,  he  will  go  away.  That  was  what  she  did-stared  at  the  tree,  giving  the  impression  that  someone  else  was  in  the  house,  that  she  was  not  pet-  rified,  that  she  was  not  wobbling,  not  alone.  He  re-  peated  his  intention,  and  " b"then  she  dismissed  him,  saying,  &quot;We  will  see  about  that,&quot;  and  he  stepped  out  and  she  closed  the  door  very  quiet-  ly.  But,  back  in  the  house,  she  began  to  tremble  and  was  too  incapacitated  even  to  lift  the  telephone  to  call  anyone.  Then,  when  she  heard  his  footsteps  go  away,  she  lay  down  on  the  floor  and  wondered  why  it  was  that  she  could  not  have  talked  to  him,  but  she  knew  why  it  was;  she  was  petrified  of  such  people.  They  were  usually  tall  and  gangly,  they  had  a  funny  stare,  and  they  laughed  at  things  that  were  no  laughing  matters,  The  first  such  per-  son  she  had  ever  come  across  had  been  a  woman,  a  tall  streelish  creature  whose  mania  gave  her  a  wild  energy,  made  her  stalk  fields,  roads,  byroads,  lanes,  made  her  rap  on  people's  doors  at  all  hours  of  day  and  night,  insult  them  about  their  jobs,  their  self-impor-  tance,  their  furniture,  and  everything  that  they  had  taken  to  be  enhancing.  She  could  not  have  asked  the  man  in  for  fear  he  might  strangle  her,  or  mis-  behave-treat  the  floor  as  a  lavatory-  or,  worse,  refuse  to  leave!  She  had  the  glass  of  the  door  changed,  so  that  she  was  enabled  to  see  out  but  no  caller  could  see  in.  He  came  a  few  times  more,  but  each  time  was  told  to  scam-  per  by  a  handyman  who  was  in  her  employment.  T  had  been  a  nice  lunch,  at  the  neighbor's,  that  day-delicate.  Poached  eggs  and  leaf  spinach.  When  she  sat  down,  the  neighbor  handed  her  a  linen  napkin  and  said,  &quot;There  vou  are,  pet.&quot;  They  drank  wine,  they  clinked  glasses,  they  recalled  Christ-  mases,  numerous  parties,  the  Scottish  boy  whom  they  both  fancied  and  de-  ceived  each  other  over.  At  the  time,  it  had  rankled.  She  her-  self  had  methim  on  the  road  one  morning  by  the  merest  chance,  and  he'd  had  the  temerity  to  tell  her  he  had  been  looking  fora  hardware  shop,  al-  though  it  was  a  streetsolely  of  private  houses.  But  that  was  well  behind  her.  The  garden  would  go  on  blooming.  The  [REDACTED]  creeper  would  attach  it-  self  to  everything  and  finally  encum-  ber  everything.  She  had  planted  three  trees,  numerous  creepers,  herbs,  and  wonderful  bright  shrubs  that  defied  the  sullen  [REDACTED]  soil.  She  would  recall  the  garden  in  times  to  come-the  eve-  nings  sitting  out  on  the  low  wall,  look-  ing  at  the  river,  or  again  at  the  blocks  of  flats  on  the  opposite  side,  feeling  the  vibrations  of  the  distant  tube  train  go  right  through  her  stomach  and  her  bowels,  admiring  the  flowers,  and  sometimes  getting  down  to  stake  up  a  rose  that  had  straggled  and  bowed along  the  ground.  It  had  been  a  home.  &quot;No  place  like  home,&quot;  her  parents  used  to  say  whenever  they  went  away  from  their  ramshackle  farm,  to  be  ill  or  to  shop  for  a  day,  or  in  the  case  of  her  fa-  ther  to  go  on  binges.  She  went  up  to  her  bedroom.  Noth-  ing  left  of  its  character  but  the  wall-  paper.  Beige  wallpaper  with  bosses  of  red  roses,  each  rose  like  an  embryo  bud  and  all  intricately  joined  by  stems  that  were  as  thin  as  thread  and  on  the  point  of  ravelling.  Not  many  people  had  seenher  bedroom,  but  those  who  had  were  still  in  it,  like  ghosts,  spectres,  frozen  in  the  positions  that  they  had  once  unthinkingly  occupied.  'There  was  the  boy,  blond,  freckled,  who  had  nev-  er  made  love  to  her  but  had  harbored  some  true  feelings  for  her.  He  always  used  to  arrive  with  a  group  but  almost  always  got  too  drunk  to  go  home,  and  once,  though  not  drunk,  felt  disinclined  to  go  home  and  took  off  his  boots  by  the  fire  and  held  the  soles  of  his  feet  toward  it,  asking  if  by  any  chance  seers  read  feet,  if  feet  had  lines  of  des-  tiny  just  like  hands.  She  thought  that  maybe  shyness  had  deterred  him,  or  maybe  distaste.  He  used  to  talk  in  the  early  morning,  the  veryearly  morn-  ing,  touching  the  stems  of  the  roses  with  his  forefinger,  watching  through  the  window  the  careers  ofthe  birds,  and  the  course  of  the  river  beyond.  People  used  to  envy  her  that  view  of  the  river.  Yes,  it  was  a  shame  to  leave,  At  night,  because  of  the  aspect  of  the  water  and  its  faithful  lap,  it  often  seemed  as  if  she  were  in  another  city  altogether,  and  now  just  as  the  trees  were  beginning  to  grow  she  was  leav-  ing  it  all  behind.  She  ought  to  desecrate  it,  do  some  act  of  mischief,  such  as  at  school  when  they  got  holidays  and  used  to  throw  compasses  and  chalk  about,  used  to  chant  &quot;Kick  up  tables,  kick  up  chairs,  kick  Sister  So-and-So  down  the  stairs,  no  more  Latin,  no  more  French,  no  more  sitting  on  a  hard  old  bench.&quot;  But  those  were  the  carefree  days,  ot  seemed  to  be.  AM  loath  to  leave,  she  thought,  and  dragged  the  broom  over  the  bare  wood  floor.  Dust  rose  out  of  nowhere,  so  she  filled  a  coffee  cup  with  water  and  spattered  it  over  the  floor  to  keep  the  motes  down.  Once  during  avery  special  party,  she  had  thought  that  the  freckled  boy  must  notbe  coming,  and  then,  just  as  her  hopes  were  dashed,  he  arrived  with  a  new  girl,  a  girl  not  un-  like  herself,  but  younger,  tougher,  and  more  self-assured.  The  girl  had  asked  for  cigars  immediately,  and  strode  around  the  room  smoking  a  cigar,  tell-  ing  all  the  men  that  she  knew  they  " b"lusted  after  her.  She  was  both  clever  and  revolt-  ing.  At  the  end  of  the  night,  there  were  only  the  three  of  them  left,  and  they  sat  in  a  little  huddle.  He  was  right  in  the  throes  of  a  sentence,  when  all  ofa  sudden  he  fell  fast  asleep,  the  way  children  do,  leaving  the  two  of  them  to  watch  overhim,  which  they  did  like  vultures.  Together,  they  removed  his  high  boots,  his  su\xc3\xa9de  jacket,  and  his  outer  sweater.  When  at  last  the  girl  fell  asleep,  she  herself  went  around  the  house,  stack-  ing  glasses,  thinking  it  had  been  a  good  party,  primarily  because  he  was  there.  And  occasionally,  even  in  those  very  early  days,  things  would  sud-  denly  become  otherwise,  and  her  heart  would  en-  ter  a  swoon.  She  would  forget  a  name,  even  her  own  name,  or  a  cigarette  butt  in  a  glass  would  be  enlarged  a  hundredfold,  and  once  the  violets  came  out  of  a  brooch  and  it  seemed  to  her  they  were  exuding  either  sweat  or  tears.  The  cheeky  girl  rang  her  em-  ployer  the  moment  she  wakened  and  asked  how  Kafka-her_  dog-was,  then  borrowed  money  and,  walking  away  from  the  boy,  waved,  as  if  his  function  in  her  life  was  now  completed.  Her  children  used  to  have  parties,  too,  birthday  parties,  where  all  the  glasses  of  orange  juice  would  be  lined  up  on  a  tray,  and  piles  of  paper  hats  towered  into  a  cone,  and,  later,  me-  ringue  crumbs  would  be  sent  flying  about  the  place  andsome  children  would  be  found  crying  because  they  had  not  gone  to  the  lavatory.  It  was  worst  when  they  left  to  go  away  to  boarding  school-empty  rooms,  empty  beds,  and  two  bicycles  just  lying  there  in  the  shed.  They  would  come  home  for  holidays,  and  there  would  be  the  usual  bustle  again,  with  various  gar-  ments  left  on  the  various  steps  of  the  stairs,  but  it  was  always  as  if  they  were  visitors,  and  gradually  the  house  began  to  have  something  of  the  chilliness  of  a  tomb.  But  she  met  an  Asiatic  holy  man,  and,  having  talked  to  him  at  length  and  hearing  his  creed,  she  asked  him  to  joinher,  to  come  under  her  roof,.  The  very  first  evening,  however,  she  had  a  premonition,  because,  when  he  arrived as  he  did  at  the  appointed  hour  and  with  his  rucksack,  she  saw  that  he  had  a  black  scarf  draped  over  his  head,  and  when  she  caught  sight  of  him  in  the  doorway  he  looked  like  nothing  so  much  as  a  harlot,  his  Asiatic  features  sharply  defined,  his  eyes  like  darts  and  full  of  expectation.  They  sat  by  the  fire,  she  served  a  casserole,  bringing  a  little  ta-  bleclose  for  him  to  put  his  plate  on.  He  even  drank  some  wine.  He  told  her  of  his  daydream  to  go  by  boat  down  the  French  canals  ~  throughout  the  length  of  a  summer.  When  the  time  came  to  retire,  it  seemed  to  her  that  he  let  out  some  sort  of  whimper.  Once  in  her  bedroom,  she  locked  her  door  and  began  to  tremble.  She  had  just  em-  barked  on  another  catastrophe.  On  his  way  to  bed,  he  coughed  loudly,  and  it  seemed  to  her  that  he  lingered  on  the  landing,  just  outside  her  door.  She  was  inside,  cringing,  listening.  She  seemed to  be  always  listening,  cringing,  in  some  bed,  or  under  some  bed,  or  behind  some  pile  of  furniture,  or  behind  a  door  that  was  weighed  down  with  overcoats  and  trenchcoats.  She  seemed  to  be  always  the  culprit,  although  in  truth  the  other  person  was  the  wrongdoer.  In  the  morning,  the  holy  man'  slipped  a  note  under  her  bedroom  door  to  sayshe  was  to  join  him  the  moment  she  wakened,  as  they  did  not  want  to  lose  a  moment  of  their  precious  time  together.  She  greeted  him  coldly  in  the  kitchen,  but  already  she  could  see  that  he  was  hanging  on  her  words,  on  her  looks,  and  on  her  every  gesture.  After  three  days,  it  was  intolerable.  His  sighs  filled  the  house,  and  the  rooms  that  were  relatively  cheerful  with  flowers  and  pretty  objects,  these,  too,  began  to  accumulate  a  sadness.  She  found  herself  hiding,  anywhere-in  the  lava-  tory,  in  the  garden  shed,  in  the  park,  even  though  it  was  bitter  cold.  He  would  rush  to  her  with  a  towel  and  slippers  whenever  she  came  in  and  would  have  some  mush  ready,  which  he  insisted  she  eat.  He  called  her  Angel,  and  used  this  endearment  at  every  pos-  sible  moment.  The  neighbors  said  he  would  have  to  go.  She  knew  he  would  have  to  go.  The  day  she  told  him,  he  said  it  was  his  greatest  fear  realized,  that  of  becoming  happy  at  long  last-his  " b"wife  had  died  ten  years  before-only  to  be  robbed  of  it.  He  broke  down,  said  how  he  had  dreamed  of  bring-  ing  her  up  the  French  canals,  of  buoy-  ing  her  with  cushions  so  that  she  could  see  the  countryside,  loving  her  and  caring  for  her  and  lulling  her  to  sleep.  On  the  day  of  his  departure,  he  wrote  a  note  saying  that  he  would  stay  in  his  room,  his  &quot;hole,&quot;  as  he  called  it,  and  not  bother  her,  and  not  require  any  food,  and  leave  quietly  at  four,  as  ar-  ranged,  At  lunchtime,  she  called  him  to  partake  of  a  soup  she  had  made.  He  was  in  his  saffron  robe,  all  neat  and  groomed,  like  a  man  about  to  set  out  on  a  journey.  But  he  was  shivering,  and  his  eyes  had  a  veil  over  them,  a  heavy  veil  of  tears.  He  sat  and  dragged  the  spoon  through  the  thick  potato  soup,  and  at  first  she  thought  that  it  must  be  some  way  of  cooling  it,  but  as  the  time  went  by  she  saw  that  it  was  mere-  ly  a  ploy  to  fiddle  with  it,  like  a  child.  He  did  not  say  a  word.  She  clapped  her  hands  and,  much  too  raucously,  said,  &quot;High  diddle  diddle  the  cat  and  the  fiddle,  the  cow  jumped  over  the  moon.  The  little  dog  laughed  to  see  such  sport  and  the  dish  ran  away  with  the  spoon!&quot;  He  looked  at  her  as  if  she  had  gone  mad.  She  said,,  &quot;Please  don't  take  it  so  badly.&quot;  He  said  she  was  the  second  person  he  had  ever  loved,  said  how  his  wife  had  been  a  European,  too,  sired  in  a  dark,  wet  country,  a  lover  of  rain  and  a  lover  of  music.  He  loved  nothing  Asiatic,  nothing  related  to  his  own  land,  not  even  the  sunshine  or  the  bright  colors  or  the  smells  that  per-  vaded  the  air  of  [REDACTED].  His  destiny  had  been  his  dead  wife,  and  now  her.  Anger  overtook  her,  so  that  she  wanted  to  beat  him  with  the  spoon,  grind  his  face  into  the  mush  of  soup;  she  wanted  to  humiliate  him.  When  she  was  clear-  ing  away  the  dishes,  he  said  again  that  he  would  stay  in  his  &quot;hole&quot;  and  leave  quietly  at  four.  But  when  the  clock  struck  she  waited  for  his  footsteps  on  the  stairs  and  then  along  the  hall,  but  she  waited  in  vain.  She  prayed  to  God  that  he  would  go.  At  five,  she  decided  that  he  must  have  killed  himself,  and  before  going  up  she  took  the  precau-  tion  to  call  in  the  neighbor.  Together,  they  climbed  the  stairs,  smoking  vig-  orously,  manifesting  a  display  of  cour-  age.  He  was  sitting  in  the  middle  of  the  floor  with  his  rucksack  on,  his  head  lowered.  He  appeared  to  be  praying.  He  said  &quot;Angel,&quot;  and  how  he  must  have  lost  track  of  time.  Then  he  said  it  was  too  late  to  go,  and  that  he  would  postpone  his  departure  until  the  mor-  row.  Eventually,  she  had  to  call  the  police,  and  upon  leaving  he  handed  her  a  note  which  said  that  he  would  never  get  in  touch  with  her,  never  ever,  but  telling  her  where  he  would  be  at  each  and  every  given  hour.  He  was  taking  employment  as  a  cook,  and  he  wrote  his  employer's  number,  stress-  ing  that  he  would  be  there  at  all  hours,  except  when  he  would  travel  by  bus,  two  afternoons  a  week,  to  take  guitar  lessons.  Then  he  gave  her  the  various  possible  numbers  of  the  guitarist,  who  had  no  fixed  abode.  Next  morning,  another  letter  was  slipped  under  the  door,  and  so  each  morning  faithfully,  " b"until  he  died  seven  days  later.  She  refused  to  admit  any  guilt.  OON  after,  she  decided  to  have  renovations  done-kitchen  and  liv-  ing  room  made  into  one,  a  big  picture  window  to  provide  a  grander  view  of  the  river,  and  a  stained-glass  window  in  which  a  medley  of  colors  could  in-  teract  as  they  did  in  the  church  win-  dows  she  had  seen  long  ago.  The  cubes  and  the  circles  and  the  slithers  of  light  that  had  fascinated  her  in  child-  hood  were  still  able  to  repossess  her  at  a  moment's  flounder.  Like  the  trepida-  tion  and  the  waiting  behind  the  win-  dow  and  the  various  sets  of  chattering  teeth.  Other  things,  too-shouts,  mur-  murs,  screams,  an  elderly  drunk  fall-  ing  down  a  stairs,  his  corpse  later  laid  out  in  an  off-white  monkish  habit  on  a  wrought-iron  bed,  and  she  her-  self  being  told  that  he  had  died  of  pneumonia,  that  he  had  not  died  of  a  fall.  So  many  puzzling  things  had  been  said,  things  that  contradicted  one  another.  They  congratulated  you  for  singing,  then  told  you  never  to  open  your  gob  again  as  long  as  you  lived.  Your  tongue  was  not  your  friend,  it  was  too  thick  and  unwieldy,  it  doubled  back  in  your  throat,  it  parched,  it  longed  for  lozenges.  Yes,  rows  and  the  prefaces  to  rows,  and  thumpings  and  beatings  and  the  rash  actions  of  your  sister,  the  flighty  one,  going  out  at  night,  winter  night,  with  blue  satin  knickers  on,  which  she  had  stolen,  going  to  a  certain  gateway,  to  cavort  with  a  travelling  creamery  manager,  coming  in  long  after  midnight,  and  trving  desperately  not  to  be  heard,  but  being  heard  and  accosted  fiercely.  For  some  curious  reason,  creaks  are  more  pronounced  in  the  dark,  and  her  sister  was  always  heard  and  always  badly  punished,  so  that  there  were  cries  after  midnights  and  &quot;Don't,  don't,  don't.&quot;  Her  sister  bled  on  the  stairs;  then  soon  after  that  her  mother,  her  father,  a  clergyman,  and  two  other  important  men  interrogated  her  about  her  private  life.  Her  sister  denied  everything,  just  stayed  there,  glued  to  the  damp  area  of  the  stairs.  Then,  the  next  day,  her  mother,  her  sister,  and  herself  walked  along  a  hedged  road,  and  every  min-  ute  her  sister  was  cross-examined,  and  every  minute  she  denied  the  accusations  and  said  she  was  a  virgin.  They  were  on  their  way  to  another  doctor,  a  doc-  tor  who  did  not  know  them.  When  they  passed  an  orchard,  the  little  ap-  ples  were  already  formed  on  the  trees  and  they  were  desperately  bright,  but  hard  and  inedible.  Her  sister  was  found  to  have  lied-had  tried  to  aborther-  self;  she  was  sent  to  the  Magdalen  laundry  for  the  five  remaining  months  andhad  her  bitter  confinement  there.  But  there  had  been  delicious  things,  too-treats.  On  Sundays,  a  trifle  left  to  set  on  the  other  side  of  the  stained-glass  panel,  a  trifle  in  a  big  pudding  bowl,  left  down  on  tiles  to  cool.  She  would  go  down  the  stairs  in  her  nightdress,  creep,  go  through  the  glass  door,  squat  down  on  those  tiles,  and  scoop  out  some  of  the  lovely  cold  jollop  with  her  hands,  and  swallow  it.  It  was  cakey.  Later,  it  would  be  covered  over  with  a  wad  of  whipped  cream,  then  sprinkled  with  &quot;hundreds  and  thousands&quot;  which  would  shine  away  as  they  were  being  swallowed.  She  never  got  a  walloping  for  that  misdemeanor  because,  in  her  mother's  eyes,  she  was  a  little  mite.  On  the  other  hand,  her  father  punished  her  for  ev-  erything,  particularly  for  sleeping  in  her  mother's  bed.  When  her  father  got  in,  she  tried  not  to  look,  not  to  listen,  not  to  see,  not  to  hear,  and  not  to  be.  She  moved  over  to  the  wall,  smelled  the  damp  of  the  paper,  and  could  even  smell  the  mortar  behind  the  paper.  There  were  mice  in  that  room.  They  scuttled.  Shame,  shame,shame.  Always,  for  one  second,  a  dreadful  swoon  used  to  overwhelm  her,  too,  Her  bones  and  every  bit  of  her  dissolved.  Then  she  contracted  and  steadied  herself.  Afterward,  she  and  her  mother  ate  the  chocolate  sweets,  little  buttons.  They  simply  used  to  melt  on  the  tongue,  like  Holy  Communion.  They  were  so  soothing,  and  so  satis-  fying  after  the  onslaught.  Then  the  worst  was  over,  for  a  week  or  so,  until  it  happened  again.  On  one  side  of  the  bed  was  a  lattice,  and  when  a  finger  was  put  through,  it  was  like  a  finger  being  dispatched  into  space.  Fingers  alone  could  do  nothing,  but  fingers  seamed  to  knuckles  belonging  to  palms,  to  wrists,  and  to  arms  could  stir  cakes  or  pound  potatoes,  or  shake  the  living  daylights  out  of  someone,  out  of  one's  own  self.  One's  lights  were  in  there-  resided,  not  as  an  illumination  but  as  offal.  Lights  were  given  to  dogs,  to  curs,  and  did  not  show  the  way  as  did  a  lamp  or  a  flash  lamp.  Saturday  morn-  ings  were  languor  time.  Her  mother  brought  her  tea  and  fingers  of  toast.  The  sun  would  be  streaming  through  the  blind,  making  shapes  and  gestures,  warming  the  weeping,  historied  walls,  the  dark  linoleum  would  be  lit  up,  the  dust  rambling  all  over  it,  the  dust  an  amusement  in  itself,  while  out  on  the     " b"landing  the  sun  beamed  through  a  stained-glass  window  and  resulted  in  a  different  play  altogether.  Happily,  she  munched  on  those  fingers  of  toast.  Even  the  stone  hot-water  bottle  that  had  gone  cold  became  a  source  of  pleasure  as  she  pressed  on  it  with  her  feet  and  pushed  it  right  down  to  the  rungs  of  the  brass  bed  and  threatened  to  eject  it.  When  her  father  threat-  ened  her  with  the  slash  hook,  her  nostrils  went  out  like  angels'  wings,  and  she  sped  with  the  prodigal  speed  over  three  marsh  fields  to  a  neighbor's  house,  to  one  of  the  cottagers  who  was  making  damson  jam  while  at  the  same  time  giving  her  husband  a  bath  in  the  aluminum  tub.  They  laughed  at  her  because  of  the  way  she  shook,  and  asked  if  perhaps  she  had  seen  the  banshee.  \xe2\x80\x9cN  O,  pet,  no  onecan  help  you,  you  can  only  help  yourself,&quot;  the  neighbor  had  just  said  at  the  delicate  lunch.  Was  that  true?  Would  that  al-  ways  be  true?  She  went  into  her  empty  bathroom.  The  woodwork  was  as  new  and  blond  asin  a  showroom,  and  the  bar  of  almond-shaped  soap  hanging  from  thetap  asked  to  be  used.  She  whispered  things.  She  looked  at  the  shower,  its  beautiful  blue  trough  and  the  glass-fronted  door.  They  had  takena  shower  together,  she  and  a  hulk  of  a  man,  this  stranger.  She  hung  his  shirt  over  the  glass  door  to  serve  as  a  sort  of  screen.  He  was  so  good-looking,  and  so  heavy,  and  so  warm,  and  so  urgent  as  he  pressed  upon  her  that  she  thought  she  might  burst  like  fruit.  It  was  such  a  pity  that  he  turned  out  to  be  crass.  &quot;Let's  get  mar-  ried,&quot;  he  said  at  once.  She  took  him  to  [REDACTED],  and  in  the  hotel  room  he  made  himself  at  home,  threw  his  belongings  about,  started  to  swagger,  ordered  the  most  expen-  sive  champagne,  and  booked  two  long-distance  telephone  calls.  Her  children  were  in  the  adjoining  suite.  They  had  not  wanted  him  to  come,  but,  remembering  the  pleasure  in  the  shower,  truer  and  more  persuasive  than  words  or  deeds,  the  scalding  half-happiness,  she  had  let  him  accompany  them,  knowing  she  could  not  afford  it,  knowing  that  he  would  cadge.  The  moment  he  used  her  toothbrush,  she  knew.  She  went  out  to  the  chemist  to  buy  another,  and  he  said  what  a  pity  that  she  hadn't  bought  him  some  after-shave.  She  could  not  sleep  with  him  again.She  went  down  and  reserved  another  room  for  him,  a  cheaper  room. They  quarrelled  disgracefully.  He  said  he  was  &quot;bad  news&quot;  but  that  bad  news  travelled  like  wildfire.  He  moved  to  the  other  room  but  would  not  leave  them  alone.  He  followed  them  wherever  they  went,  and  hence  the  visit  was  ruined.  He  rang  her,  saying  he  was  a  health  officer  andhad  to  examine  her.  He  ordered  wines  from  the  cellars,  and  she  was  certain  he  would  steal  furniture  or  linen.  It  was  a  beautifulhotel  with  circular  rooms  and  little  separated  bal-  conies  on  each  landing  affording  a  view  into  the  well  of  the  hall.  The  bathroom  was  like  a  sitting  room;  there  was  even  a  chaise  for  lying  on,  and  the  walls  were  a  lovely  warm  pink.  It  was  a  dry  paint,  like  a  powder,  and  the  walls  were  warm  to  nestle  against.  She  sat  on  the  chaise  and  very  formally  cursed  him.  N  the  maid's  room,  she  stood  over  the  washbasin.  That  was  one  room  she  had  neglected.  The  washbasin  was  an  eyesore.  Would  the  new  people  have  it  mended,  or  have  it  removed?  The  new  owner  was  a  doctor,  and  there  would  be  a  sign  chalked  upon  the  pavement  saying  &quot;Doctor-In  Constant  Use.&quot;    The  Spanish  maid  had  been  a  nice  girl,  but  a  slut.  She  used  to  do  old-fashioned  things  like  plait  her  hair  at  night,  or  iron  her  clothes  by  putting  them  under  the  mattress.  They  used  to  talk  a  lot,  were  chatterboxes.  The  day  the  maid  arrived  was  in  Janu-  ary,  and  the  children  were  playing  snowballs  and  had  just  acquired  a  new  dog.  The  new  dog  left  little  piddles  all  over  the  floor,  tiny  yellow  piddles,  no  bigger  than  a  capsule,  and  the  dinner  was  specially  special  because  of  the  new  girl,  and  the  children  were  as  bright  as  cherries,  what  with  the  ex-  ercise  and  having  been  pasted  with  snowballs  and  the  excitement  of  a  new  dog.  The  girl  had  had  a  mad  father  who  broke  clocks,  and  a  mother  who  pampered  her.  She  came  from  a  small  town  in  the  north  of  537061696e,  where  there  was  nothing  to  do  in  the  evenings  ex-  cept  go  for  a  walk  with  other  girls.  The  girl  ironed  her  hair  to  straighten  it,  and  took  camomile  tisane  for  her  headaches.  They  exchanged  dreams.  In  the  mornings,  she  used  to  go  to  the  girl's  room,  sit  at  the  foot  of  the  bed,  and  take  a  long  time  deciding  what  she  should  wear  that  day.  The  girl  began  to  dream  in  English,  dreamed  of  cats,  shoals  of  cats,  coming  through  the  window  meowing,  and  of  herself  trying  to  get  the  latch  closed,  trying  to  push  them  back.  The  girl  got  spoiled,  stayed  in  bed  three  or  four  certain  days  of  each  month,  left  banana  skins  under  her  pil-  low,  neglected  her  laundry,  and  never  took  the  hairs  out  of  her  brush  or  comb.  Eventually,  she  had  to  go.  Another  parting.  So  also  the  little  dog,  because,  al-  though  house-trained,  he  devel-  oped  a  nervous  disease  that  made  him  whine  all  the  time  even  in  sleep,  and  made  him  grit  his  little  tecth  and  grind  them  and  grind  things.  It  was  not  long  after  that  something  began  to  go  amiss.  She  got  the  first  sniff  of  it,  like  a  foretaste,  and  it  was  a  sniff  as  of  blood  freshly  drawn.  Yet  it  was  a  nothing.  There  was  a  space  where  the  small  bay  window  had  been.  The  builder  had  hung  a  strip  of  sack-  ing  there,  but  she  was  cer-  tain  something  would  come  through-not  simplya  burglar,  or  wind  or  rain,  but  some  catas-  trophe,  some  unknown  with  the  features  of  a  beast.  Whenever  she  entered  that  room,  she  felt  that  something  had  just  vacated  it.  A  wolf,  she  thought.  It  made  people  laugh.  &quot;A  wolf,&quot;  they  said,  " b"&quot;the  proverbial  big  bad  wolf.&quot;  She  rum-  maged  through  her  old  books  for  a  copy  of  &quot;Red  Riding  Hood,&quot;  but  could  not  find  it.  She  could  remember  it.  It  was  a  cloth  book  with  serrated  edges.  The  edges  were  cut  carefully,  so  that  the  book  did  not  ravel.  She  saw  the  little  specks  ofcloth  that  had  been  nipped  out  in  a  heap  on  the  floor,  col-  ored  like  confetti.  When  thebig  new  window  was  delivered,  the  hall  door  had  to  be  taken  off  its  hinges.  Six  men  carried  it  through,  each  one  bossing  the  others,  telling  the  others  to  get  a  move  on,  to  move  on,  for  Christ's  sake,  to  do  this,  to  do  that,  to  watch  it,  watch  it.  She  saw  it  break  into  smithereens  a  hundred  times  over-but  it  wasn't,  in  fact,  until  it  was  in  and  well  puttied  that  she  realized  what  a  risk  they  had  taken.  She  opened  a  bottle  of  whiskey,  and  they  drank,  looking  out  at  the  river  that  happened  on  that  day  to  have  the  sheen  and  consistency  of  liquid  paraffin.  It  was  like  a  bright  skin  over  the  brown  water.  She  imagined  spoons  of  it  being  donated  to  loads  of  constipated  tourists  who  went  by  on  the  pleasure  boats.  Naturally,  there  was  a  party  tochris-  ten  the  room.  Would  that  have  been  the  time  that  the  boy  brought  the  in-  solent  girl  who  had  a  dog  called  Kafka,  or  was  that  another  time?  They  were  all  jumbled  together,  those  parties,  those  times,  like  the  dishes  stacked  on  the  long  refectory  table,  or  the  bottles  of  wine,  or  the  damp,  gold  champagne  labels,  or  the  beautiful  entr\xc3\xa9es.  Perfec-  tion  and  waste.  She  placed  two  men  together,  whereupon  one  took  offense,  thinking  he  was  assumed  to  be  a  homo-  sexual.  She  had  to  bring  him  out  into  the  garden,  and  in  the  moonlight  solemnly  tell  him  that  she  had  not  been  thinking,  that  she  was  a  careless,  a  bad  hostess.  He  was  full  of  umbrage.  He  said  he  should  not  have  come.  She  knew  that  he  would  never  be  invited  again.  A  foreign  woman  stayed  on,  and  they  drank  a  bit,  and  picked  at  the  food,  and  drank  more,  and  lay  down  on  the  mat  by  the  dying  fire.  Even  the  embers  were  gray.  She  huffed  on  the  fire,  and  slowly  one  ember  came  to  life,  then  another.  Without  thinking  about  it,  she  began  to  caress  the  woman  and  soon  realized  that  she  was  well  on  the  way  to  seducing  her.  It  was  a  strange  sensa-  tion,  as  if  touching  gauze,  or  some  sub-  stance  that  was  about  to  vanish  into  thin  air.  Like  the  clocks  of  dandelions  that  were  and  then  were  not-fugitive  dandelions,  vanishing,  running  away,  everything  running  away,  everything  escaping  her  former  state.  The  woman  asked  her  to  go  on,  to  please  go  on.  She  thought  of  other  loves,  other  touches,  and  it  was  as  if  all  these  things  were  getting  added  together  in  her,  like  numbers  being  totted  up  in  a  vast  cash  register,  poor  numbers  that  would  never  be  able  to  be  separated.  She  did  go  on,  and  then  her  own  eyes  swam  in  her  head,  and,  for  no  reason,  she  re-  called  the  transparent  paper  that  her  mother  used  to  apply  to  the  lower  halves  of  windowpanes,  paper  with  pat-  terns  of  butterflies  and  the  consistency  of  water,  when  dampened.  The  wom-  an  spoke  about  her  chap,  what  a  regu-  lar  maniac  he  was.  Then  the  woman  told  her  some  facts  about  her  sordid  childhood  in  [REDACTED],  about  being  a  little  girl,  constantly  raped  by  uncles  and  cousins  and  great-uncles,  and  great-  great-uncles,  and  with  each  similar  revelation  she  would  say,  &quot;Horrible,  eh?  Horrible,  eh?&quot;  The  woman  had  lived  through  wars,  had  halfstarved,  had  eaten  cactus  root,  had  been  bruised  and  beaten  by  soldiers,  and  hideous  though  these  events  were  they  had  not  made  her  deep  or  brave,  they  had  not  penetrated  to  her.  She  was  like  any  other  woman  at  the  tail  end  of  a  party-a  little  drunk,  a  little  fatigued,  grumbling  about  her  fate.  The  little  dog  bared  his  eyeteeth  at  them.  He  knew  he  was  being  put  away  before  it  happened,  hence  bit  doors,  wainscot-  ting,  and  the  legs  of  chairs-bit  avidly  in  anticipation  of  his  fate.  She  hadn't  told  the  children  until  it  was  over.  They  cried.  Then  they  forgot.  But  did  they  forget?  They,  too,  had  brimming  hearts.  Children's  hearts  broke,  but  they  did  not  know  that  for  a  long  time.  One  day,  they  discovered  it,  and  then  it  was  as  if  some  part  of  them  had  been  removed  unthinkingly,  on  an  operating  table.  OON  after  that,  she  caught  the  ill-  ness,  or  rather  it  descended  on  her-an  escalating  fever.  It  centered  in  the  throat,  thenose,  and  behind  the eyes,  and  everything  about  her  felt  raw.  The  neighbor  used  to  come  to  see  her,  bring  Bovril  in  a  thermos,  and  the  doctor  came  twice  a  day.  But  when  they  were  gone  it  used  to  possess  her  again,  that  flicker  of  terror.  Would  her  heart  be  plucked  out  of  her  body,  would  the  roof  fall  in,  would  a  rat  come  out  of  its  hiding?  She  often  saw  one  on  the  head  of  the  bed,  on  the  bedknob,  poised,  its  stripes  bristling.  A  girl  she'd  known  had  had  a  rat,  in  her  bedroom,  that  got  killed  by  a  cat  after  hours  and  hours  of  play.  She  had  wit-  nessed  the  last  screeching  toss,  the  leaps,  then  described  the  remains-a  little  heart  of  dry,  triangular  flesh  and  a  string  where  the  tail  had  been.  The  girl  had  found  a  nice  bloke  and  moved  with  him  into  his  barge.  The  very  day  the  girl  saw  him,  she  wrote  him  a  note  saying  no  person,  animal,  insect,  or  thing  had  sniffed  about  her  for  almost  a  year,  and  asked  were  there  any  of-  fers.  No  more  rats-at  least-not  for  the  time  being.  At  the  height  of  the  fever,  small  fly-  ing  creatures  assembled  and  performed  a  medieval  drama.  They  flew  from  the  ceiling,  perched  on  the  various  big  brass  curtain  rings,  hid  in  the  dusty  hollow  space  above  the  wardrobe,  and  hissed  at  one  another,  hiss  hiss.  They  chattered  in  arich  and  barbarous  lan-  guage.  She  could  comprehend  it,  though  she  could  not  speak  it.  They  stripped  her  bare.  They  worked  in  pairs,  sometimes  like  angels,  sometimes  like  little  imps.  They,  too,  had  tails.  They  worked  quickly;  everything  was  quick  and  preordained.  She  lay  pros-  trate.  Her  nipples  were  like  two  aching  ~  mouths  unable  to  beseech.  The  King,  half  man,  half  woman,  lay  upon  her,  and  in  that  unfamiliar,  mocking,  rock-  ing  copulation  all  strength  seemed  to  be  sucked  out  of  her.  Her  nipples  had  nothing  left  to  give.  After  milk  came  blood,  and  after  blood,  lymph.  Her  seducer,  though  light  as  a  proverbial  feather,  had  one  long,  black,  curved  whisker  jutting  from  his  left  nostril,  and  there  was  no  part  of  her  body  that  did  not  come  under  the  impact  of  its  mad-  dening  trail.  The  others  kept  up  some  kind  of  screeching  chorus.  She  was  wrung  dry.  She  came  to  on  the  floor.  She  saw  the  pictures  and  her  oval,  sil-  ver-backed  mirror  as  if  she  had  been  away  on  a  long,  long  journey  and  she  resaluted  them.  In  the  silence,  there  was  a  heaviness,  as  of  something  snor-  ing,  and  various  hairs  had  got  into  the  glass  of  orange  juice  beside  the  bed.  The  next  day,  when  the  temperature  had  abated  somewhat,  she  decided  to  get  a  grip  on  herself,  to  find  theuse  of  her  legs  again,  and  to  walk  around.     " b"There  was  even  a  walking  stick  that  someone  had  left  behind.  She  opened  a  door  that  led  into  a  room-a  little  va-  cant  room,  as  it  happened,  but  it  was  no  longer  empty;  she  saw  numbers  of  coffins  throughout  the  room,  lifting  and  flying  about,  and  she  heard  a  saw  cutting  through  wood,  slowly  and  ob-  stinately.  &quot;Good  God,  I  am  dying,&quot;  she  thought,  as  the  coffins  flew  about,  and  then  she  closed  the  door  and  then  opened  it  again,  and  the  room  was  as  it  should  be,  with  a  single  bed,  cov-     ered  in  an  orange  counterpane,  a  lamp  with  a  white  globe,  a  buckled  dressing  table,  and  a  painting  that  represented  a  very  purring  heart.  That  was  the  first  time.  Not  long  after,  the  washbasin  in  the  maid's  room  took  a  little  dance,  and  the  enamel  was  like  a  meal  inside  her  mouth,  crushing  her  teeth.  They  said  it  was  bad  to  be  alone;  it  was.  HE  lost  interest  in  cooking  and  housekeeping,  wagged  her  finger  at  her  own  self,  and  pronounced  a  ri-diculous  verdict:  &quot;You  are  slipping,  slipping.&quot;  Very  often,  she  caught  sight  of  a  bright  sixpence  concealed  inside  a  wad  of  dough,  and  she  thought  that  if  she  could  get  it  and  keep  it  in  her  purse  it  would  be  a  good  augury  for  the  future.  Yes,  she  was  slipping.  Her  hardworking  mother  would  not  ap-  prove.  Her  mother  had  been  a  good  cook,  superb  at  puddings,  blood  pud-  dings,  suet  puddings,  and  of  course  the  doyenne  of  all,  the  inimitable  Queen  of  Puddings.  The  neighbors  suggested  she  " b"take  driving  lessons,  and  she  did.  On  the  very  second  lesson,  she  headed  straight  for  a  pond,  and  escaped  only  because  the  instructor  grabbed  the  steering  wheel.  All  she  could  hear  was  &quot;The  pond,  the  pond.&quot;  She  saw  it,  with  its  fine  fuzz  of  green  scum,  look-  ing  exceedingly  calm  and  undangerous.  The  instructor  drove  home.  She  went  to  a  boy  called  Pierre,  to  have  streaks  and  highlighting.  Conse-  quently,  her  hair  at  night  suggested  the  lights  of  an  Aladdin's  cave.  She  should  have  streetwalked.  She  got  a  new  outfit.  She  got  new  boots.  They  were  the  color  of  hessian  and  thickly  crusted  with  threaded  flowers.  In  the  shop,  the  male  assistant  told  her  that  their  consultant  psychiatrist  could  tell  any  woman's  character  from  the  foot-  wear  she  chose.  For  that,  she  smirked.  There  was  only  one  tune  in  her  head,  and  it  was  that  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  was  falling  down,  falling  down.  She  would  sit  far  back  into  a  chair  and  try  to  keep  still.  But  very  often  it  would  come,  this  mutiny,  and  there  was  no  knowing  what  blood  battles,  what  carnivals,  what  mad  eyes  and  bulbous  eyeballs  would  swim  before  her.  &quot;Get  thee  to  a  nunnery,&quot;  she  said  to  them  in  vain,  The  bills  poured  in.  Nevertheless,  she  bought  unnecessary  things-an  ivory-  inlaid  occasional  table,  a  rocking  chair.  The  chair  had  to  stay  in  the  shop-  window  for  three  days  until  a  dexter-  ous  man  came  to  haul  it  out.  She  used  to  goup  to  the  shop  and  look  at  it,  ob-  serve  the  word  &quot;Sold&quot;  in  bold  red  let-ters  and  her  name  just  beneath  it.  She  envisaged  sitting  on  it,  going  rock-a-  bye-baby.  She  never  did,  because  it  had  to  go  back  to  the  shop,  still  with  its  corrugated  wrapping  on  it,  since  the  check  had  bounced.  She  had  stopped  work  supposedly  for  a  month,  but  by  then  it  was  three  months.  She  had  been  replaced  by  a  younger  girl,  and  the  newspaper  column  that  used  to  carry  her  name  and  her  oval-faced  likeness  each  Tuesday  morning  now  had  a  cute  little  photograph  of  a  blond  lady,  who  used  the  pseudonym  of  Sappho.  Her  former  editor  wrote  and  said  if  he  could  ever  do  anything  for  her  he  would  be  only  too  glad  to  help.  It  was  both  touch-  ing  and  useless.  As  time  went  on,  she  was  selling  instead  of  buying.  Her  dresses,  both  chiffon  affairs,  in  beautiful  airydesigns,  were  in  a  shopwindow  not  far  away,  and  her  fox  cape  had  been  snatched  up  in  two  minutes  after  she  had  deposited  it  in  the  secondhand  mar-  ket.  She  saw  the  new  owner  go  out  in  it,  strutting,  and  she  wanted  to  stab  her.  The  new  owner  wore  red  platform  shoes,  and  she  herself  made  a  note  to  procure  a  pair  when  her  ship  came  in.  The  childrenguessed,  but  never  said.  They  got  little  presents  for  her-  usually  nice  notebooks  and  ball  pens  to  try  and  coax  her  back  to  work.  From  school,  they  wrote  insouciant  notes-  how  they  were  out  of  socks,  they  were  almost  out  of  underwear;  they  won-  dered  if  she'd  had  the  leak  fixed.  A  man  whom  she'd  met  in  the  park,  an-  other  nutter,  drew  her  a  graph  of  her     waning  sexuality  and  presented  her  with  a  sealed  letter.  He  wrote:  It  appears  you  do  not  appreciate  a  mature  person,  such  as  myself,  you  know  many  cultured  children,  some  you  wor-  ship,  and  some  you  ridicule,  but  dear  friend,  you  say  you  are  very  occupied,  so  is  The  Pope,  The  United  Nations,  The  Brotherhood  of  Workers,  The  Black  Militants,  The  White  Pacifiers;  all  play-  ing  similar  games.  Fellow-puppet  of  nature,  from  outside,  stationed  in  my  space,  time,  and  tran-  quillity,  I  observe  the  stardust  drifting  \xc2\xb0  and  pulsating  through  the  Milky  Way.  Goodbye.  It  is  not  the  end  of  me.  Then  he  told  her  to  beware,  All  because  she  stood  him  up  one  day  on  a  park  bench,  where  he  was  going  anyhow,  for  his  afternoon  donation  of  fresh  air,  She  let  the  bills  come  and  then  dropped  them  intothe  boiler.  She  was  glad  she  had  not  converted  to  oil;  otherwise  there  would  havebeen  no  boiler  and  no  ashes  and  no  ash-  pan  with  its  lovely  big  surreal  clinkers.  The  house  was  silent,  and  yet  in  those  silences  she  would  hear  a  little  gong,  summoning  her  to  something-  to  prayer,  perhaps-and  then  the  voices  real  and  imagined  were  like  packing  needles,  being  dispatched  in  one  ear  and  out  theother,  through  the  brawn  of  her  head.  Yet  no  one  had  died,  not  even  her  parents,  so  that  there  was  no  excuse  for  those  ridiculous  coffins.  STILL,  morning  was  morning.  She  would  creep  down  into  the  garden,  quietly,  so  that  she  did  not  even  disturb  the  pigeons  out  of  their  roost,  and  at  " b"once  she  would  be  possessed  of  sucha  nice  feeling,  a  safeness-talking  ami-  cably  to  the  things  of  nature  about  her.  There  were  still  such  things-the  milky  air,  the  camellias  in  their  trem-  bling  backdrop  of  shining  foliage,  which  she  would  smell  and  touch  and  inhale,  and  thank  for  being  there.  Sym-  bols  of  another  world,  a  former  world,  a  beautiful  world.  What  world?  Where  and  when  had  she  gone  wrong?  It  was  inside  that  things  were  worst.  If  she  sat,  or  lingered  too  long  in  any  room,  it  seemed  as  if  the  books,  the  en-  cyclopedias,  might  commence  to  talk,  the  pages  might  fly  open  and  reveal  something  dire.  At  intervals,  the  walls  purred.  She  was  several  sizes-tiny  and  shrinking,  holding  a  doll's  stomach,  messing,  making  it  say  &quot;Ma  ma,  ba  ba  ;&quot;  she  was  beating  nettles  with  a  stick,  she  was  squatting  under  the  trees,  she  was  a  freak  being  hoisted  up  on  stilts,  she  was  fying,  not  flying,  fixed  frozen.  She  be-  gan  to  lock  the  doors,  on  one  room  after  another,  and  she  would  listen  outside  these  doors,  and  peer  through  their  key-  holes,  but  not  go  in.  She  locked  every  room  in  that  house,  had  a  camp  bed  down  in  the  hall,  and  was  ready  to  fly  at  the  slightest  hint  of  irregularity.  In  the  end,  she  rented  a  room  in  a  small  hotel,  and  came  home  only  for  a  change  of  clothing,  or  to  collect  the  mail.  NOCK  knock.  He  was  there.  She  went  out  smiling,  and  he  helped  her  with  the  few  things  that  she  was  carrying.  He  hesitated  before  pulling  on  the  choke.  In  the  back  seat  were  two  cardboard  boxes  full  of  empty  milk  bot-  tles,  and  the  moment  they  started  up,  two  or  three  of  the  bottles  rolled  off.  Any  regrets?  Yes,  plenty  of  regrets.  She  was  going  to  a  place  named  after  a  lake,  and  she  and  others  would  be  under  supervision.  He  said  she  would  be  all  right,  that  there  were  plenty  others  in  the  same  boat.  Her  hackles  did  not  rise.  Ah,  never  didthe  house  look  so  lovely  as  just  then,  the  multi-  colored  brick  with  its  hues  of  violet  and  crimson,  the  paintwork  that  with  a  bit  of  effort  could  be  renewed.  She  had  thrown  it  all  away,  she  had  let  it  go.  Her  lungs  burst  for  a  moment  with  regret,  and  she  thought  of  the  alterna-  tive,  of  how  blissful  it  would  be  to  be  going  in  there  and  starting  all  over  again,  with  wooden  spoons  and  a  kitch-  en  table,  a  primus  ora  stove,  a  few  items.  Then  she  checked  herself.  It  was  no  use  wishing.  She  saw  the  living  death  and  the  demons  behind  her,  she  saw  the  sad  world  that  she  had  invent-  ed  for  herself,  but  of  the  future  life  she  saw  nothing,  not  even  one  godsend. "