 b"THE  park  was  laid  out  about  1840  on  a  slope  facing  north  at  the  end  of  a  long  cypress  drive  from  the  Tuscan  villa.  The  villa  itself  is  also  of  that  time-a  large,  three-floor  white  intonaco  house.  A  bit  dull  from  the  out-  side:  four  plain  walls  with  three  rows  of  windows.  Too  many  windows,  per-  haps.  It  has  a  front  yard  enclosed  by  a  tall  wall,  on  top  of  which  is  a  spiky,  hostile,  silvery  railing.  You  enter  the  vard  through  an  immense  gate,  very  pretentious,  painted  silver  like  the  rail-  ing  and  topped  with  a  similar  pattern  of  lancelike  spikes.  The  roadway  to  the  front  door  is  surfaced  with  tiny  white  pebbles.  On  each  side  stand  cedars,  firs,  palms,  and  persimmons,  the  last  tanta-  lizingly  close  to  the  wall.  You  feel  wealth  all  around  you,  and  also  a  sense  of  something  too  private  and  formal-a  sense  that  increases  if  you  ring  the  bell.  Then  a  waiter  in  white  gloves  and  striped  jacket  comes  to  open  the  door.  He  leads  you  over  polished  tile  floors  to  a  carpeted  salon,  rather  gloomy  despite  the  elegant  fur-  niture,  vases,  and  other  good  things  of  the  period.  Not  enough  sunlight;  the  silver,  the  shiny  chandeliers  not  enough  to  make  up  for  its  lack.  On  the  other  side  of  the  house  is  the  garden,  with  a  fountain  in  the  center  and  a  symmetri-  cal  design  of  flower  beds,  an  attractive  orangery  to  one  side,  roses  climbing  the  walls,  and  in  huge  pots  tall  lemon  trees  laden  with  fruit.  Then  there  is  the  long  cypress  drive,  and-what  the  villa  is  best  known  for-the  park  at  the  end  of  the  drive.  A  gentle,  deeply  religious,  titled  old  couple  had  inherited  the  estate.  They  died  childless  about  1950,  leaving  it  to  a  young  niece  who,  even  when  she  later  got  married  and  had  a  little  boy,  pre-  ferred  living  in  town  and  spent  only  a  few  weeks  in  the  summer  at  the  villa.  People  said  that  the  first  thing  her  hus-  band  wanted  to  do  after  taking  stock  of  the  place  was  cut  down  the  cypresses  to  sell  as  timber.  With  difficulty,  wife,  friends,  bailiff,  and  farmers  persuaded  him  not  to.  Over  the  years,  with  the  shortage  and  increasingly  high  cost  of  labor,  the  park  was  left  more  or  less  to  itself.  It  certainly  wasn't  kept  up  the  way  it  used  to  be  when  the  old  couple  was  living.  Then  there  were  water-  works  all  in  perfect  condition,  such  as  a  fountain  with  tall  jets  of  water  and  stepping  stones,  and  a  well  that  sprin-  kled  you  the  moment  you  looked  into  it  and  the  host  stepped  on  a  lever.  At  the  &quot;hermitage&quot;-really  the  house  of  the  gardener-a  wooden  hermit  friar  on  wheels  rolled  toward  you  when  you     opened  the  door.  There  were  a  Chi-  nese  hut,  an  open-air  theatre  with  mossy  stone  seats  and  a  hedged  stage,  a  wooden  bridge,  a  long  trellised  gal-  lery,  statues  with  inscriptions,  a  grotto,  a  spring,  a  brook,  a  boxwood  maze.  And,  down  deep  in  the  park,  seven  sequoias,  imported  from  [REDACTED]  and  planted  around  1840-the  biggest  trees  in  the  neighborhood  and  perhaps  in  all  Europe.  The  hermit  is  still  there,  but  he  doesn't  roll  anymore  when  you  open  the  door.  The  Chinese  hut  has  caved  in.  The  bridge  is  unsteady.  Some  of  the  paths  are  overgrown.  The  park  has  the  air  of  an  abandoned  garden,  and  per-  haps  it  has  improved  with  age.  It  has  become  more  mysterious,  and  it  may  be  just  as  well  that  the  waterworks  are  not  in  perfect  condition.  Though  hardly  anyone  ever  goes  there,  the  park  is  open  to  visitors.  No  admission  ticket  is  required,  or  any-  thing  like  that.  You  just  go  to  the  gardener's  cottage-the  hermitage-  by  a  little  country  road  that  skirts  the  cypress  drive,  and  the  gardener's  wife,  who  is  usually  upstairs  in  the  kitchen,  will  let  you  in.  Once  in  a  while,  her  ten-year-old  daughter  will  offer  to  show  you  around.  She's  a  sweet  child,  quite  unobtrusive,  and  leads  you  asa  kitten  might.  Sometimes  you  think  you've  lost  her,  but  she  appears  a  mo-  ment  later  ahead  of  you  among  the  leaves.  You  are  hardly  aware  of  her  presence.  Back  at  the  entrance,  you  leave  her  or  her  mother  a  tip.  [REDACTED]  afternoon  last  August,  two  visitors  went  to  the  park.  They  were  staying  as  paying  guests  at  an-  other  villa  nearby.  He-a  zealous  student  from  [REDACTED],  with  glasses  and  curly  brown  hair-was  eighteen  and  looked  twenty-three.  She--blond,  nimble,  and  pretty-thirty-eight  and  looked  twenty.  An  American  divorc\xc3\xa9e  with  large,  thoughtful  eyes,  she  seemed  to  gaze  beyond  you  at  her  fifteen  years  of  marriage  to  an  economist  she  hard-  ly  loved,  who  drank  and  abused  her  and  who  very  recently,  soon  after  the  divorce,  had  married  a  model,  much  younger.  At  times  she  seemed  to  re-  gret  having  left  him-she  kept  saying  how  extremely  successful  hewas,  de-  spite  his  drunkenness.  The  other  guests  looked  at  her,  graceful  in  her  fresh   summer  dresses,  of  which  she  seemed  to  have  an  endless  supply,  and  won-  dered  how  any  man  could  be  so  foolish  as  to  cause  her  to  leave  him.  The  boy  knew  some  Italian,  she  hardly  a  word.  She  had  been  at  the  villa  a  week;  he  two  months,  taking  a  course  at  the  academy  of  music  in  town.  He  was  a  flutist,  and  very  intense  and  serious  about  it,  practicing  many  hours  every  day,  and  sometimes  playing  for  the  guests  after  supper  in  the  garden.  When  he  practiced,  the  music  filled  a  good  part  ofthe  house,  but  he  played  so  well  that  no  one  minded.  &quot;I  love  to  hear  him,  especially  when  he  practices.  Then  it  sounds  so  natural-almost  like  hearing  the  birds,&quot;  she  said  one  evening,  and,  turning  to  him,  she  asked,  &quot;Do  the  birds  sound  very  dif-  ferent  to  you?&quot;  &quot;Only  the  cuckoo's  notes  have  resemblance,&quot;  he  said.  Though  his  teacher  in  town  was  a  world  celebrity,  the  young  man  wasn't  satisfied,  and  his  parents,  both  of  whom  were  well-known  musicians  in  Lon-  don,  often  called  long  distance  and  urged  him  to  leave.  But  he  liked  the  villa,  had  struck  up  quite  a  friendship  with  the  American  divorc\xc3\xa9e,  and  was  staying  on  against  his  parents'  advice.  &quot;I'm  told  there's  a  park  near  here,&quot;  he  said  to  her.  &quot;I've  never  been  there,  but  I  know  where  it  is  and  we  could  go  over  together  if  you  like.  They  say  it's  the  most  unusual  thing  around.&quot;  &quot;I'd  love  to  see  it,&quot;  she  replied  in  her  very  feminine  voice.  &quot;But  won't  that  take  you  away  from  your  practicing?&quot;  He  shrugged.  &quot;It's  probably  good  for  me  to  have  a  break.&quot;  She  smiled,  obviously  pleased  that  one  his  age  should  pay  her  so  much  at-  tention  and  be  willing  to  put  his  flute  aside  for  a  whole  afternoon-some-  thing  he  had  not  done  since  they  had  met.  So  assiduous  was  he  in  his  work,  he  told  her,  that  he  had  never  even  been  inside  the  famous  cathedral  in  town  or  seen  the  museums.  She  gazed  at  him  warmly-protectively,  too.  Her  glances  were  lambent,  not  burning.  Shealways  seemed  aware  he  was  only  cighteen.  It  was  an  oppressively  hot  day,  the  sky  glary,  the  atmosphere  heavy,  and  this  was  another  good  reason  for  going  to  the  park.  She  had  a  rented  car,  and  in  good  American  style  they  drove  to  the  hermitage  though  it  was  no  more  than  a  mile  away.  They  parked  on  the  country  road,  opposite  the  gardener's  cottage.  &quot;Hello!&quot;  he  called,  and  the  garden-  er's  wife-a  pleasant  young  woman  with  a  kerchief  round  her  head-ap-  peared  at  the  top  of  an  outside  staircase " b"on  the  second  floor.  She  came  down,  led  them  through  the  hermit's  bed-  room,  living  room,  and  kitchen,  showed  them  the  venerable  old  wooden  man,  his  loaf  of  bread,  cheese,  wine  decanter,  Bible,  bunk  bed,  and  pillow,  all  made  of  painted  terra-cotta,  and  then  let  them  into  the  park  and  left  them  on  their  own.  High  above  them  were  the  thick  fronds  of  an  ilex.  They  couldn't  see  the  sky,  and  the  shade  was  unbroken  except  for  a  spot  of  sunlight  that  would  show  up,  disappear,  and  return  for  a  mo-  ment.  The  family  that  first  conceived  of  the  park,  and  its  direct  descendants  right  on  down  to  the  deceased,  childless  old  couple,  had  been  very  devout  peo-  ple,  and  the  two  visitors,  who  had  al-  ready  sensed  the  religious  tone  pervad-  ing  the  place  from  a  Latin  verse  from  the  Scriptures  at  the  entrance  of  the  hermitage  and  from  the  presence  of  the  hermit  with  his  Bible,  gained  an  even  stronger  impression  of  it  as  they  went  down  a  steep  path  that,  every  few  yards,  had  a  step  and  a  cross  with  Ro-  man  numerals  on  it,  representing  the  twelve  Stations  of  the  Cross.  Beyond  them,  the  path  became  mossy.  An  in-  violate  silence  reigned,  which  the  rare  sound  ofa  bird  seemed  only  to  con-  secrate.  The  sun  hardly  entered.  The  garish  light  outside  here  became  a  delicate  green.  It  was  refreshingly  cool.  They  walked  lightly  over  the  live  vel-  vet  softness  along  the  path  that  led  gently  down  the  slope.  Ferns  brushed  their  arms.  They  came  to  a  wall  with  the  statue  of  an  angel  in  a  niche,  and  below  it  a  weathered  marble  slab  with  an  inscription.  There  was  moss  on  it,  and  fungi,  and  part  of  it  was  black-  ened  by  the  moisture  oozing  from  the  slope,  but  the  carved  words  could  still  be  made  out,  and  he  slowly  read  and  translated:  Enter  into  these  woods,  whoever  you  are.  Wander,  if  you  like,  along  these  shady  paths.  If  you  are  tired,  rest  on  the  rough-hewn  seats  and  the  fresh  grass.  Visit  the  hermitage,  the  hut,  the  grotto,  the  font  at  your  leisure.  Walk  freely  wherever  you  will,  but  beware  lest  you  commit  any  sin  and  thereby  incur  the  wrath  of  the  Lord.  Even  as  the  lily  is  at  home  here,  let  any  impure  act  be  alien.  They  laughed  atthe  &quot;beware  lest  you  commit  any  sin.&quot;  &quot;''That's  rather  nice.  'Even  as  the  lily  is  at  home  here,'  he  said.  But  how  do  you  like  the  'any  impure  act'?&quot;  &quot;I  don't,&quot;  she  said,  and  laughed  faintly,  while  he  laughed  -with  the  wist-  ful  relish  of  one  who  hasn't  yet  man-  aged  to  shed  as  much  of  his  innocence  as  he  would  like  to.  Soon  they  came  to  another  statue,  this  one  ofa  child.  A  plaque  said  that  this  little  monument  was  in  her  memo-  ry,  and  gave  her  name-the  surname  that  of  the  founder's  family-and  the  dates,  pitifully  close  in  time,.  In  single  file  they  walked  under  the  rusty  arcs  of  the  trellisall  covered  with  vine,  then,  holding  hands,  across  the  wood-  en  bridge  over  a  leaf-strewn  gully,  and  down  to  the  theatre,  which  not  only  was  cushioned  with  moss  but  had  little  flowers  and  ferns  growing  out  of  cracks  in  the  stone  where  earth  had  gathered.  He  went  around  the  hedge  and  onto  the  stage.  He  looked  at  her-  an  audience  so  special  that  for  a  mo-ment  he  felt  stagestruck.  He  wished  he  had  his  flute.  Why  hadn't  he  brought  it?  This  was  the  place,  the  time,  the  audience  for  music.  He  decided:  he  would  whistle  for  her  a  movement  of  the  concerto  he  had  been  working  on  at  the  villa.  Subtler  than  the  flute,  the  music  rose  and  fell  to  rise  again,  thin  as  the  nectar  of  snapdragons,  and  as  sweet.  Her  eyes  held  him.  She  was  with  him,  now  high,  now  low,  wher-  ever  the  notes  took  theem-the  notes  that  bridged  the  gap  of  years,  that  made  nothing  of  it,  that  made  every-  thing  seem  possible.  At  the  end  of  the  movement,  they  walked  over  to  a  grotto  dug  into  a  cliff.  Water  oozed  from  every  stone;  no  wonder  the  vegetation  was  luxuriant.  A  spring  gushed  from  the  base  of  the  cliff  face,  forming  a  pool.  From  there  the  water  flowed  down  a  grassy  brook  to  feed  the  fountain,  which,  however,  was  no  longer  watertight.  Nearby  was  the  well,  artless  now.  They  bent  for-  ward  and  saw  their  reflections.  &quot;Did  you  make  a  wish?&quot;  he  said.  Yes,  did  you?&quot;  &quot;Iwished  you  well,&quot;  he  said,  and  laughed,  &quot;What  did  you  wish?&quot;  She  didn't  say,  but,  looking  intently  at  him  with  her  large,  pensive  eyes,  came  near  and  kissed  him.  He  leaned  on  the  balustrade  of  the  well  to  steady  himself,  silent  because  the  new  mood  felt  gossamer-frail,  in  danger  of  being  torn  by  any  word,  any  move.  Taking  him  by  the  hand,  in  si-  lence  she  walked  with  him  to  the  se-  quoias.  Like  pillars  of  a  gigantic  tem-  ple,  the  trunks  rose,  furrowed,  bare  of  branches,  to  the  sky,  and  there,  a  good  " b"hundred  feet  up,  their  foliage  spread-  huge  green  limbs  hovering  over  the  forest.  Their  pinnacles  grew  in  dia-  mond-shaped  crowns.  Slowly,  almost  languorously,  they  began  walking  back  up  the  slope  by  a  different  route  from  the  one  they  had  taken  on  their  way  down.  The  path  had  not  been  cleared  in  a  long  time.  Dead  branches  had  fallen  across  it  and  lay  rotting.  The  boxwood  hedge,  which  had  oncebeen  a  cleverly  designed  maze,  here  needed  clipping,  there  had  wide  gaps.  All  too  easily  they  found  their  way  out.  A  certain  heaviness  came  over  him  that  he  couldn't  account  for.  It  was  as  if  he  were  carrying  up  the  incline  a  weight  that  rested  not  on  his  shoulders  but  on  every  cell  of  his  body.  Was  it  the  weight  of  love?  Was  it  the  weight  of  years?  Eighteen  years-  hardly  a  load.  She,  on  the  other  hand,  seemed  to  be  walking  more  lightly,  emerging  from  the  depth  of  the  forest  ahead  of  him,  airy.  Once  in  a  while,  blithely,  she  turned  to  look  at  him.  He  felt  a  drop  of  rain  and  heard  the  distant  rumble  of  thunder.  They  passed  by  the  inscription  again,  and  his  eyes  paused  on  the  word  &quot;sin.&quot;  Step  by  step  they  climbed  up  the  Stations  of  the  Cross  to  the  level  of  the  hermitage,  and  passed  the  quartersof  the  wooden,  stodgy  hermit  to  the  other  side,left  a  tip  for  the  gardener's  wife  at  the  bottom  of  the  staircase,  and  closed  the  gate  be-  hind  them.  UT  in  the  glary  light  and  sultry  atmosphere  that  the  distant  storm  had  done  nothing  to  clear,  he  longed  for  the  darkness  of  the  wood.  She,  too,  as  she  stepped  into  the  car  and  took  the  wheel  and  shifted  from  neutral  into  first  gear,  became  suddenly  a  practical  creature  coping  with  the  mechanical  world,  cramped  by  it  into  an  inelegant  posture  in  which  one  machine-directed  movement  followed  another  without  rhythm  or  grace.  It  was  so  unlike  the  way  it  had  been  in  the  park,  where  he  had  whistled  like  a  faun  and  she  had  kissed  him  like  a  woodland  fairy.  Back  in  the  villa,  strangely,  she  spoke  of  her  children,  whom  she  had  hardly  ever  mentioned  to  him.  They  were  going  to  be  out  of  summer  camp  in  a  week,  she  said.  She  spoke  of  New  York.  She  said  that  perhaps  someday  he  would  give  a  concert  in  New  York  and  that  she  would  go  and  see  him.  And  less  than  an  hour  ago  he  had  been  under  the  illusion  that  they  would  never  part.  He  looked  at  her  blankly.  Her  eyes,  her  face,  her  lips.  Again  he  heard  the  sound  of  thunder,  a  rumble  in  the  distance,  like  a  grumble,  and  he  thought  of  the  inscription  again,  and  the  word  &quot;sin.&quot;  He  wished  that  they  had  sinned  and  that  the  Lord  had  struck  them  dead  with  lightning  at  that  instant.  But  they  hadn't  sinned.  Not,  surely,  with  a  kiss?  O  God,  he  felt  that  with  that  kiss  she  had  placed  on  his  mouth  a  seal  or  an  enchantment  to  prevent  that  he  should  ever  draw  from  other  lips  pleasure  or  sweetness  or  con-  tent,  or  slake  his  thirst  for  love. "