 b"SLEEP-along  with  its  counter-  part,  being  awake-accounts  for  much  of  the  time  spent  by  mod-  ern  man  during  his  life,  and  therefore  merits  serious  attention  by  the  trained  observer.  Certainly  the  most  fascinat-  ing  document  to  emerge  from  the  bur-  geoning  sleep-research  field  is  the  jour-  nal  kept  by  Dr.  Mordecai  Kentish  during  a  classic  experiment  in  which  he  stayed  awake  for  more  than  three  hun-  dred  hours  in  order  to  study  the  effects  of  extensive  sleep  deprivation.  Dr.  Kentish,  Winkle  Professor  ofClinical  Psychology  at  Tony's  College,  Chi-  cago,  won  the  Nobel  Prize  in  1948  for  his  work  in  isolating  and  defining  the  common  nap  as  &quot;any  rest  episode  up  to  twenty  minutes'  duration  involving  unconsciousness  but  not  pajamas.&quot;  He  also  pioneered  the  &quot;Kentish  Tech-  nique&quot;  of  psychoanalysis,  in  which  cither  the  patient  or  the  therapist  gets  to  lie  on  the  couch,  depending  on  which  of  the  two  is  sleepier.  He  is  the  author  of  the  standard  text  &quot;Sleep&quot;  and  the  widely  known  treatise  on  insomnia  &quot;How  to  Sleep,&quot;  plus  a  third  volume,  &quot;Where  to  Sleep,&quot;  a  thoughtful  rat-  ing  of  motels  found  along  the  major  interstate  arteries,  which  includes  an  appendix  listing  inexpensive  restaurants  and  the  locations  of  important  histori-  cal  markers.  We  would  like  to  express  our  thanks  to  Mabley  Kentish  for  releasing  the  Kentish  papers  for  publication  only  months  after  her  brother's  experiments  were  so  tragically  interrupted,  when  he  was  carried  off  by  a  large  bird.  Selected  portions  of  the  Sleep  Journal  follow.  Firsr  Day  (12  hours):  Arrived  at  laboratory  9  P.M.  Bucholtz  [Kent-  ish's  devoted  assistant,  O.  Bucholtz,  a  refugee  who  worked  for  Kentish  for  twelve  years  without  remunera-  tion  of  any  kind,  and  with  only  one  two-day  vacation,  which  he  spent  walking  around  in  the  front  yard]  as  usual  leaves  a  mess-candy  wrappers,  a  banana  peel  on  the  EEG,  a  half-filled  container  of  coffee  with  a  cigarette  butt  floating  in  it.  Nevertheless,  there  can  be  no  question  of  dismissing  him;  he  is  pathetically  devoted  to  me,  perhaps  be-  cause  of  that  time  I  let  him  watch  me  shave.  The  current  record  for  sleepless,  ness  is  held  by  radio  personality  Galen  Moon,  the  hostof  a  telephone  show,  who  remained  awake  forthe  entire  two  hundred  hours  required  to  take  an  irate  call  from  a  severe  stutterer.  (Moon,  a  noted  insomniac,  later  re-  vealed  to  me  that  even  after  his  excruciating  ordeal  he  could  not  fall  asleep  without  first  browsing  through  an  article  entitled  &quot;Cairo-  Whither  the  New  Agrarianism?,&quot; soporific  published  every  Sunday  in  the  magazine  section  ofthe  New  York  Times.)  My  intention  is  to  exceed  Moon's  limit  by  at  least  one-third,  uti-  lizing  no  stimulants  or  artificial  means  whatsoever-nothing  but  the  awe-  some  powers  of  a  disciplined  intellect.  At  the  end  of  each  entry,  as  daily  proof  of  my  ability  to  sustain  rational,  sequential  thought,  I  shall  perform  a  simple  test,  by  writing  out  the  complete  alphabet.  Thus:  Day  (38  hours):  Pulse,  respiration,  temperature,  and  blood  pressure  normal.  A  mild  elation  ac-  companied  by  great  mental  clarity.  Chess  with  Bucholtz;  a  carefully  laid  trapof  my  own  design  (Ruy  Lopez,  with  a  slashing  bishop  attack)  had  the  fool  mated  in  seven  moves.  [Intake:  Breakfast-coffce  and  a  scone  with  honey.  Lunch-Bibb  lettuce  r\xc3\xa9mow-  lade.  Dinner-butterfish  and  a  praline.  Physical  coordination  excellent;  I  jumped  two  feet  straight  up  into  the  air  without  bending  my  knees-a  dif-  ficult  enough  feat  fora  young  man,  and  certainly  remarkable  for  an  ad-  vanced  sedentary  specimen  such  as  my-  self.  Wonderful  feeling  of  crispness  and  efficiency.  Three  times  eight  is  twenty-  four,  The  cube  root  of  eight  is  two.  The  capital  of  Chile  is  Santiago.   FietH  Day  (109  hours)  :  Sensation  of  mild  granulation  around  the  eye-  balls,  as  if  a  small  boy  had  flung  pul-  verized  antimony  into  my  face.  Pulse,  temperature,  respiration,  blood  pressure  normal.  (Annoying  relative  term,  &quot;nor-  mal.&quot;  For  whom?  )  In  Bucholtz's  case,  temperature,  pressure,  respiration,  and  blood  pressure  can  all  be  expressed  by  one  integer  in  the  low  fiftics.  Chess  with  Bucholtz.  Irresponsibly  sacrificed  my  queen,  both  knights,  both  bishops,  and  all  pawns  within  first  thirteen  moves;  nevertheless  managed  to  achieve  stalemate  by  sending  Bucholtz  on  a  brief  errand,  during  which  time  I  flushed  his  king  down  the  toilet.  The  frontiers  of  the  mind  are  limitless.  The  cube  root  of  cight  is  mot  two;  it  is  something  else,  possibly  the  color  red.  No  no-  ticeable  fatigue.  Curious  perceptual  dis-  tortions,  however.  Everyday  objects  (i.e.,  my  right  hand,  a  chair)  seem  ei-  ther  too  large  or  too  small,  but  I  can-  not  decide  which,  Chess  with  Bucholtz  " b"eighth  Day  (182  hours):  Curi-  ous  feeling  of  constriction  in  the  frontal  lobe,  as  if  someone  had  forced  a  tiny  cast-iron  opera  hat  onto  my  head  with  a  wooden  mallet.  Today,  for  the  first  time  in  our  long  association,  Bucholtz  made  a  witty  remark.  When  I  asked  him  if  there  were  any  telephone  mes-  sages  for  me,  he  replied,  &quot;No,  the  phone  hasn't  rung  all  day.&quot;  He  is  unbearably  funny;  the  juxtapo-  sition  of  &quot;all  day&quot;-i.e.,  the  entire  day-with  the  notion  of  the  telephone  not  ringing  was,  I  thought,  a  master-  ful  stroke  of  ironic  hyperbole,  worthy  of  Goethe  and  especially  remarkable  in  someone  who  still  needs  help  dressing.  When  I  finally  caught  my  breath,  I  requested  that  he  close  the  door,  which  he  did  in  a  similarly  comical  fashion,  putting  his  hand  on  the  knob  and  push-  ing  the  entire  structure  until  it  latched. Again  I  broke  into  gales  of  laughter  (it  was  marvellous,  really  ),  which  Buch-  oltz  mocked  (also  amusingly  )  by  look-  ing  at  me  directly  with  both  eves!  He  is  quite  a  jolly  fellow,  this  Bucholtz.  Ninth Day  (231  hours):  Intake:  Breakfast-cofscone.  'The  fork  is  the  one  with  the  little  points  on  it;  the  spoon,  however,  is  round.  That  is  how  you  can  tell  them  apart.  Temperature  erutarepmet.  Window  open  3%  inches,  chair  oriented  along  N-S  magnetic  lines  of  force,  thus  enabling  me  to  draw  energy  from  the  earth  and  maintain  a  healthy,  full  head  of  hair,  All  else  normal,  except  for  Bucholtz's  plot  to  steal  my  face  and  sell  it  to  the  emperor.  I  have  the  persistent  impression  that  a  man  named  Al  Bender  possesses  in-  finite  knowledge,  if  we  can  only  locate  him  and  get  him  to  talk.  My  brain  re-  mains  miraculously  alert.  Some  trouble,  however,  with  the  pancreas,  which  has  been  stealing  catnaps.  Thank  God  for  the  kidneys,  which  keep  it  awake  with  their  constant  bickering.  abz  Day  (234  hours)}:  4  a.m.  Bucholtz  asleep  in  the  next  room.  The  clock  has  just  asked  for  a  glass  of  wa-  ter.  Reasonable  cnough,  but  what  is  &quot;water&quot;?  Increasing  difficulty  concen-  trating  on  simple  tasks,  such  as  snap-  ping  my  luncheon  peas  across  the  room  at  Bucholtz.  The  dog  outside  has  be-  come  a  distraction,  with  its  constant  barking  of  &quot;Tolanthe,&quot;  but  when  I  try  to  call  the  authorities,  the  phone  bursts  into  flame.  What  would  Lysenko  say  about  this?  And  to  whom  would  he  say  it?'  I  understand  &quot;vibescu&quot;&quot;  now;  Karsky  is  clearly  a  genius.  Dear,  dear  Karsky!  Misunderstood,  ridiculed,  mocked.  And  to  think  I  almostmailed  him  a  spider!  I  must  go  to  him.  I  need  paper  to  build  a  boat.  a  bee  cee  dee  eff  gee  aitch  I  jay  Twelfth Day  (301  hours):  Still  no  fatigue.  Temperature  99\xc2\xb0.  Skies  fair.  Winds  calm.  Position  28\xc2\xb0S  by  188\xc2\xb0W.  The  mate  have  eat  of  a  tainted  Gouda  and  muft  be  lafhed  to  the  mizzen.  Displeasure  on  the  fore-  deck,  water  maggoty.  'Three  more  given  up  to  scurvey.  May  God  help  us  in  our  tryalle.  T  this  point,  the  journal  stops  ab-  ruptly.  Bucholtz,  on  awakening,  reported  finding  his  mentor  rigid,  his  forchead  against  the  light  switch,  his  body  making  a  hypotenuse  between  floor  and  wall.  His  eyes  were  open  and  unblinking,  his  pulse  180,  his  tempera-  ture  50\xc2\xb0F.  Removed  to  the  hospital,  Kentish  was  given  a  strong  sedative  and  put  to  sleep  for  a  week,  after  which  he  awoke  refreshed  and  ate  an  enor-  mous  breakfast,  including  two  paper  cups.  His  notes,  bearing  extensive  tooth  marks,  were  recovered  by  O.  Bucholtz  and  presented  to  Mabley  Kentish,  who  will  publish  them  this  fall  in  a  popular  edition,  under  the  title  &quot;Copping  Zs-  Forty  Winks  to  Oblivion.&quot;  "