 b'THIS  afternoon  in  rolling,  part-  ly  wooded  country,  still  green,  though  the  summer  is  far  gone.  Here  in  the  north  they  are  still  har-  vesting.  All  day  yesterday  the  har-  vesters  maneuvered  like  tanks  across  the  grain  fields,  under  dark  heavy  clouds,  racing  with  the  menace  of  rain.  Sound  of  their  throbbing  echoing  along  hillsides,  their  clacking  and  rumbling,  all  for  one  species  that  numbers  its  days.  Last  night  they  harvested  long  after  dark.  I  listened,  imagining  the  nocturnal  animals  of  the  soil,  with  a  light  not  of  the  sun  dawning  for  them.  And  the  animal  heads  ofthe  wheat,  being  harvested  in  their  sleep:  a  sudden  blinding  light,  suddenly  going  out  around  their  closed  eyes.  I  thought  of  those  who  would  eat  the  bread  that  was  harvested  at  night,  that  night,  in  haste,  late.  I  listened  to  the  night  har-  vest,  the  approaching  and  receding  noises  of  machines  in  the  dark,  and  the  syllables  of  human  shouting,  woven  across  the  nearer  cries  of  owls,  waking  the  magpies  and  crows,  drowning  out  the  crickets  and  the  cheeping  of  mice  among  the  roots.  I  watched  the  beams  advancing  slowly  across  the  blackness.  It  came  into  my  mind  how  suddenly  my  father  had  become  an  old  man,  wanting  to  be  old.  The  wheat  was  green,  then,  and  it  was  another  year.  Last  night  I  honored  the  change  better  than  at  the  time.  We  are  taught  not  to  grieve,  but  having  felt  it  I  slept  peacefully.  I  woke  once  and  it  was  over.  They  had  gone  home  from  the  unlit  stubble,  taking  thegrain.  It  must  have  been  the  dew  that  made  them  stop.  The  night  was  quiet.  Today  they  began  again  as  soon  as  the  sun  had  burned  off  the  lower  mists.  The  lines  of  the  woods  were  dark  on  the  hills  and  between  the  fields.  A  few  cattle  in  the  woods,  Brick  farmhouses,  and  little  streams  crossing  pastures,  re-  flecting  crows  and  the  low  gray  rush-  ing  sky.  A  sign  said  &quot;Ferry,&quot;  and  I  took  the  road,  not  to  cross  but  to  see  the  river.  Ahead  of  me  were  trucks  and  trucks  of  grain,  going  north.  They  converged  from  side  roads,  ahead  and  behind.  Together  with  them  I  left  the  open  fields  and  entered  the  woods.  The  road  was  narrow.  Barbed  wire  was  stretched  among  the  trees,  higher  than  someone  could  reach.  The  way  drops  steeply  to  the  shore.  Many  of  the  trucks  continue  across  the  ferry.  They  sit  in  lines  and  wait,  for  hours.  Few  still  go  at  all  to  the  grain  elevators  built  from  fortifications  ofthe  last  war.  The  year  it  was  declared,  for  some  time  their  fathers  went  right  on,  just  the  same,  with  the  harvesting,  through  week  after  week  of  perfect  golden  au-  tumn  days,  many  of  them  with  horses  or  oxen.  Then  there  was  only  the  day  harvest. '