 b"WHEN  Marty's  cardiologist  called  to  say  that  Marty  was  &quot;breathing  on  his  own  now,&quot;  or,  a  s  Ada  herself  would  have  said,  &quot;being  allowed  to  die  after  his  lon  g  illness  and  nine  hours  in  intensive  care,&quot;  she  thanked  him  and  went  to  wait  in  her  mother-in-law's  win  g  chair.  It  was  the  chair  in  which  her  husband,  if  he  had  not  preferred  the  hospital,  might  have  waited  for  death  .  It  was  the  chair  in  which  a  favorite  aunt  and  hi  s  mother  had  waited  and  in  which  Marty,  during  the  nights  when  his  sense  of  being  &quot;full&quot;  was  too  oppressive  to  be  borne  in  bed,  had  found  relief.  Sitting  there,  Ada  spoke  his  name  and  heard  the  sound  of  it  in  the  quiet  room  with  the  kind  of  incredulous  wonder  that  &quot;Goodbye&quot;-shouted  to  a  long-loved  person  at  a  considerable  distance-often  stirs.  But  of  course  it  was  not  the  same  as  saying  &quot;Goodbye.&quot;  Marty  had  not  gone  away.  The  odor  of  his  agony  still  surrounded  her,  and  th  e  chill  of  his  hands  was  no  less  real  than  it  had  been  when  she  touched  them  and  left  him.  Dying.  &quot;No,  don't  come,&quot;  Marty's  doctor  had  said.  &quot;I  w  ouldn't  want  yo  u  to  see  him  the  way  he  is  now.&quot;  So  Ada  waited  in  the  big  chair  while  an  April  thundershower  washed  the  house  and  Marty  died.  When  the  tele-phone  rang  again,  it  was  the  doctor  asking  permissi  on  to  perform  an  au-  topsy.  &quot;Do  you  expect  to  learn  something  fro  m  an  autopsy?&quot;  she  asked,  because  it  seemed  unlikely  that  after  more  than  ten  years  in  the  doctor's  care  there  could  be  anything  more  for  him  to  learn  about  Marty  .  &quot;We  usually  d  o.&quot;  &quot;'T  hen  you  may  perform  an  au-  topsy.&quot;  Dry-eyed  and  speechless-except  for  her  recurring  tendency  to  repeat  Marty's  name-Ada  went  to  bed.  It  was,  she  was  certain,  what  Marty  would  have  wanted  her  to  do.  THREE  days  later,  feeling  that  Marty  was  pleased  with  the  free-  dom  he  presumably  now  enjoyed,  Ada  listened  to  the  funeral  sermon  that  Pastor  Neal  was  beginning  to  deliver:  &quot;We  are  sad  today  because  a  teach-  er,  churchman,  civic  leader,  husband,  father,  grandfather,  gentleman,  and  friend  is  no  longer  with  us.  His  absence  now  will  affect  the  family  who  loved  him  and  lived  with  him  and  shared  the  unique  qualities  of  his  life.  That  ab-sence  will  also  affect  the  hundreds,  even  thousands  of  others  who  over  the  years  came  to  know  him  and  respect  him  and  admire  him  for  his  never-  ending  kindness,  for  his  uncommon  modesty,  and  for  his  remarkable  capac- ity  to  see  some  good  in  everybody  he  met.  That  this  giant  of  a  man  (and  I  mean  that  literally  and  figuratively)  is  no  longer  a  presence  among  us  is  just  cause  for  us  to  be  sad.&quot;  Ada  could  not  help  smiling  inward-ly  at  this.  Whether  she  was  relieved  to  see  that  Pastor  Neal,  whose  eyes  were  brimming  with  tears,  still  was  able  to  cry  or  glad  to  remember  that  it  was  Marty's  six  feet  two  inches  of  height  and  the  pride  with  which  he  carried  it  that  had  made  him  her  husband  she  could  not  have  said.  Certainly,  along  with  the  pastor's  tears  and  her  memory  of  the  young  man  whose  pres-  ence,  indeed,  had  seemed  gigantic,  the  sermon  was  a  revelation  so  sur-  prising  she  wanted  to  laugh  in  the  way  that  small  children  laugh  at  a  fairy  tale.  Yet  the  pastor's  eyes  were  full  of  tears  and  his  voice  was  eloquent,  speak-  ing  of  a  man  she  seemed  to  have  known  somewhat  as  she  knew  their  mailman  (a  dependable  man  who  came  and  went  at  predictable  times  with  news  both  good  and  bad,  sometimes  angry  but  always  aloof,  a  man  whose  real  business  had  nothing  to  do  with  her),  and  less  well,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  than  she  knew  the  heavyset  plumber  who  came  to  deal  with  the  unexpected  failures  of  their  electric  pump.  On  all  sides  of  Ada,  people  were  holding  their  handkerchiefs  ready  to  staunch  the  flow  of  tears  and  nasal  excretions  when  Pas-  tor  Neal  said:  &quot;But  we  are  also  glad  today.  For  we  can  come  into  this  church  and  make  these  statements  because  they  are  true.  This  is  the  church  where  he  regular-  ly  worshipped  for  many  years.  This  is  the  church  where  he  faithfully  taught  the  adult  Bible  class  for  a  longer  time  than  I  can  re-  member.  This  is  the  church  where  his  extraordinary  faith  both  in  God  and  his  fellow-man  was  renewed  and  strengthened-through  Word  and  Sacrament.  We  are  glad  today  because  we  can  rejoice  in  the  memory  of  his  Christian  life  and  we  can  thank  God  that  He  made  it  possible  for  us  to  know  this  man  and  be  en-riched  by  him  in  so  many  ways.&quot;  Ada  bowed  her  head  and  closed  her  eyes.  The  tremor  of  a  petit  mal  came  and  went  while  she  wondered  " b"if  Marty's  enrichment  of  the  lives  of  these  tearful  people  could  have  been  a  little  like  her  own  enrichment  by  the  painting  of  Christ's  transfiguration  that,  throughout  her  childhood,  had  been  on  the  wall  behind  the  altar.  After  a  renovation  of  the  church,  the  painting  had  been  covered  by  an  arras.  &quot;We  don't  know  anyone  who  re-  stores  that  kind  of  painting,&quot;  Ada  had  been  told  when  she  asked  why  the  arras  was  needed.  &quot;I'm  so  sorry,&quot;  she  had  said,  think-  ing  of  all  the  long  sermons  through  which  the  representation  of  Jesus  in  a  floating  white  garment,  with  the  favored  disciples-Peter,  James,  and  John-in  cloaks  of  Easter-egg  color-  ing  on  a  grassy  slope  below  the  un-  speakable  glory,  had  sustained  her.  &quot;But  the  painting  will  always  be  there?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Under  the  arras,&quot;  the  woman  who  had  bought  the  arras  said.  Seated  now  in  one  of  the  pews  where  both  Ada  and  the  painting  had  oncebeen  stylishly  acceptable,  those  early  years-when  her  love  had  trans-  figured  the  world  so  that  she  could  not  fall  asleep  for  fear  that  somehow,  while  she  s'ept,  the  world  and  everyone  in  it  might  be  lost-became  more  real  than  they  recently  had  been.  N  those  years,  the  painting,  she  sup-  posed,  had  enriched  her  own  life  in  a  way  roughly  comparable  to  the  way  in  which  Marty  had  enriched  Pastor  La  \xc2\xae  Neal's  life.  It  was  natural,  therefore,  that  he-an  honest  man  determined  to  keep  the  scales  in  balance-should  have  seen  the  funeral  sermon  as  an  oppor-  tunity,  perhaps  an  obligation,  to  enrich  Marty's  life.  If  not  an  outright  exag-  geration  of  Marty's  virtues,  his  speech  was  an  irradiation  of  them.  Or  was  it  true-as  one  or  two  of  Marty's  old  collegefriends  had  suggested,  both  be-  fore  her  marriage  to  Marty  and  after-  ward-that  she  was  not  really  able  to  appreciate  Marty?  No  better  equipped  to  answer  that  question  than  she  had  ever  been  but  still  fascinated  by  the  mass  of  its  unknown  quantities,  Ada  briefly  considered  the  difference  between  Pastor  Neal's  ap-  preciation  of  Marty's  life  in  retrospect  and  her  own.  Assuming  thatthe  pastor  had  been  one  of  their  contemporaries,  who,  having  known  her  as  a  loving  child  and,  a  little  later,  as  an  indifferent  teen-ager  who,  at  seventeen,  found  Marty  indispensable,  the  differences  in  their  remembrance  of  him  now  would  be  immeasurable.  At  his  best,  she  had  found  Marty  warmly  exciting;  at  his  worst,  painfully  irritating.  Yet,  in  and  under  the  roles  of  &quot;street  angel&quot;  and  &quot;house  devil&quot;  -both  of  which  Marty  had  played  to  perfec-  tion-there  was  a  solidly  masculine  presence.  It  was  this  presence,  she  imagined,  that  Pastor  Neal  had  discov-  ered  and  was  now  describing.  It  was  to  this  presence  that  Ada  herself  had  ad-  dressed  her  proposals  of  marriage  when  one  of  Marty's  long  absences  had  con-  vinced  her  that  she  could  not  live  with-  out  him.  Almost  all  of  those  letters  had  been  lost  in  Marty's  progress  from  one  place  of  employment  to  another,  while  almost  all  of  his  letters  existed  still,  in  one  of  the  old  trunks  in  the  attic.  During  Marty's  last  illness,  she  untied  one  of  the  packages  and  found  in  it  a  letter  of  her  own,  written  after  a  visit  dur-  ing  which,  quite  obviously,  their  rela-  tionship  had  been  weighed  in  the  bal-  ance  and  found  wanting.  The  letter's  paper  was  the  green  ofa  luna  moth's  wing  and  stiff  with  the  courage  of  youth.  It  began:  Dearest  Marty-In  the  most  literal  sense,  you  are  all  the  world  to  me  and  the  only  desire  or  ambition  I  have  is  to  help  you  to  be  happy.  If  you  don't  want  to  marry  me,  I'll  find  some  other  way  to  help  you.  This  is  what  I've  been  wanting  to  tell  you  all  summer.     Later-and  even  more  incredibly-  the  letter  went  on:  I,  too,  wish  that  fate  had  made  me  your  sister.  But  I'm  not  your  sister.  I'm  Ada  and  have  to  make  thebestof  it.  I  believed  you  when  you  said  that  it  hurts  you  to  be  so  far  away.  Yet  whenever  you  mention  marriage,  you  look  terribly  de-  pressed.  Why,  Marty?  After  thanking  him  for  his  visit,  the  letter  ended  with  a  piece  of  advice  that  Marty,  she  was  sure,  could  not  have  taken  seriously  then,  and  that  she,  after  " b"more  than  forty  years  as  his  wife,  did  not  understand  at  all:  Don't  worry,  darling,  about  your  work-or  anything.  The  only  real  wealth  is  time.  Let's  invest  it  where  it  gives  us  the  most  interest.  Your  own  Ada.  A year later, with dozens of lesser letters in the meantime, Marty had replied to that letter, having accepted the fact that Ada was not his sister and must, therefore, become his wife. It was a twelve-page letter-the longest of their length correspondence - and so plainly punctuated with the anguish of self-sacrifice that, while rereading it, Ada was as close to tears as sympa-thy for another human being could bring her. After paying tribute to the memory of William Jennings Bryan (who had died the week before) and Ada's father (who was alive), Marty listed her virtues. Since the list was a short one, he had asked her to forgive his faults without listing them. I  realize  so  many  of  them  must  be  correc  ted,  Ada.  But  now  I  understand  how  much  it  means  to  possess  a  superior  mentality  and  I  realize  more  and  more-  as  I  know  you-how  profitable  and  ad-  vantageous  the  application  of  knowledge  is.  The  problem  of  marrying  her  he  had  tackled  manfully  by  writing  a  modified  quotation  of  her  father's  en-  dorsement  of  honesty  as  the  best  policy.  As  your  daddy  says,  courage,  stick-to-  itiveness,  and  honesty  win  out  in  the  end.  What  a  true  possessor  of  common  sense  that  man  is.  I  don't  blame  you  for  appr  eciating  him.  Dear,  to  write  more  would  be  only  a  repetition  of  th  e  fact  that  I  love  you.  don't  mean  to  be  pessimistic.  But  living  alone  has  been  so  distasteful  to  me.  Perhaps  exhausted  by  the  effort  of  writing  at  such  length  and  supposing  that  somehow  his  faith  in  her  father's  judgment  would  suf  fice,  Marty  h  ad  ended  with  &quot;Ada,  yours  till  judgment  day  and  through  eternity.&quot;  Almost  be  fore  the  wedding  cere-  mony  could  be  performed,  however,  Ada  had  begun  to  wonder  if  Marty's  promise  to  live  with  her  forever  was  meant.  As  her  husband,  he  had  a  penchant  for  saying  things  that,  almost  certainly,  impl  ied  that  her  hopes  of  being  helpful  to  him  were  without  fou  ndat  ion  ,  And  when  she  asked  him  to  explain,  his  answer  was  &quot;My  mot  h-er  told  me  not  to  marry  you.  Because  you  are  an  idealist  and  I  am  not.&quot;  Happily,  she  had  become  somewhat  used  to  this  fallacy  in  her  mother-  in-law's  view  of  their  marriage  be-  fore  Marty  was  moved  to  say,  &quot;Ada,  there  is  no  such  thing  as  love.  What  'love'  means  is  nothing  but  a  willingness  to  be  exploited.  A  nd  you  're  not  will-ing  to  b  e  exploited.  In  fact,  you're  the  most  completely  selfish  person  I  ever  met.&quot;  This revelation of Marty's own view of the truth was related, she had thought, to the familiar belief that in some persons both a &quot;street angel&quot; and a &quot;house devil&quot; have made their home. Surely, there were times when, loving the &quot;street angel&quot; in Marty, she had hated the &quot;house devil&quot; who lived with her. So that, without the solidly masculine presence, dependable and strong, their marriage would have ended before it began. This was the presence that Pastor Neal had known and, with wet eyes, described. This was  their  last  meeting,  had  said,  &quot;Ada,  I  want  to  get  well  so  that  I  can  help  you.&quot;  This  was  the  Marty  who-coming  and  going  like  the  mailman-would  be  with  her  &quot;till  judgment  day.&quot;  He  would  not  want  her  to  cry  now.  "