 b"THE  sun  rose  somewhere  in  the  middle  of  Queens,  the  exact  mo-  ment  of  its  appearance  shrouded  in  uncertainty  because  of  a  cloud  bank.  The  lights  on  the  bridges  went  off,  and  so  did  the  red  light  in  the  lantern  of  the  lighthouse  at  the  north  end  of  Welfare  Island.  Seagulls  settled  on  the  water.  A  newspaper  truck  went  from  building  to  building  dropping  off  heavy  bundles  of,  for  the  most  part,  bad  news,  which  lit-  tle  boys  carried  inside  on  their  shoul-  ders.  Doormen  smoking  a  pipe  and  dressed  for  a  walk  in  the  country  came  to  work  after  a  long  subway  ride  and  disappeared  into  the  service  entrances.  When  they  reappeared,  by  way  of  the  front  elevator,  they  had  put  on  with  their  uniforms  a  false  amiability  and  were  prepared  for  eight  solid  hours  to  make  conversation  about  the  weather.  With  the  morning  sun  on  them,  the  apartment  buildings  far  to  the  west,  on  Lexington  Avenue,  looked  like  an  or-  ange  mesa.  The  pigeons  made  bubbling  noises  in  their  throats  as  they  strutted  on  windowsills  high  above  the  street.  All  night  long,  there  had  been  plenty  of  time.  Now  suddenly  there  wasn't,  and  this  touched  off  a  chain  explosion  of  alarm  clocks,  though  in  some  in-  stances  the  point  was  driven  home  without  a  sound:  Time  is  interior  to  animals  as  well  as  exterior.  A  bare  arm  with  a  wristwatch  on  it  emerged  from  under  the  covers  and  turned  until  the  dial  was  toward  the  light  from  the  windows.  &quot;What  time  is  it?&quot;  &quot;'Ten  after.&quot;  &quot;It's  always  ten  after,&quot;  Iris  Car-  rington  said  despairingly,  and  turned  over  in  bed  and  shut  her  eyes  against  the  light.  Also  against  the  clamor  of  her  desk  calendar:  Tuesday  11,  L.  3:30  Dr.  de  Santillo  ...  5:30-7:30?  ...  Wednesday  1:45,  Mrs.  Mclntosh  speaks  on  the  changing  status  of  wom-  en.  3:30  Dr.  F  ...  Friday  11C.  Get  Albertha  ..  .  Saturday,  call  Mrs.  Stokes.  Ordering  pads.  L  ballet  10:30.  2  Laurie  to  Sasha's.  Remaining  books  due  at  library.  Explore  dentists.  Supper  at  5.  Call  Margot  ...  Several  minutes  passed.  &quot;Oh  my  God,  I  don't  think  I  can  make  it,&quot;  George  Carrington  said,  and  put  his  feet  over  the  side  of  the  bed,  and  found  he  could  make  it,  after  all.  He  could  bend  over  and  pick  up  his  bath-  robe  from  the  floor,  and  put  it  on,  and  find  his  slippers,  and  close  the  window,  and  turn  on  the  radiator  valve.  Each  act  was  easier  than  the  one  before.  He  went  back  to  the  bed  and  drew  the  covers  closer  around  his  wife's  shoul-  ders.  Yawning,  stretching,  any  number  of  people  got  up  and  started  the  busi-  ness  of  the  day.  Turning  on  the  show-  er.  Dressing.  Putting  their  hair  up  in  plastic  curlers.  Squeezing  toothpaste  out  of  tubes  that  were  all  but  empty.  Squeezing  orange  juice.  Separating  strips  of  bacon.  The  park  keepers  unlocked  the  big  iron  gates  that  closedthe  river  walk  off  between  Eighty-third  and  Eighty-  fourth  Streets.  A  taxi  coming  from  Doctors  Hospital  was  snagged  by  a  doorman's  whistle.  The  wind  picked  up  the  dry  filth  under  the  wheels  of  parked  cars  and  blew  it  now  this  way,  now  that.  A  child  got  into  an  orange  minibus  and  started  on  the  long,  de-  vious  ride  to  nursery  school  and  social  adjustment.  &quot;Have  you  been  a  good  girl?&quot;  George  inquired  lovingly,  through  the  closed  door  of  the  unused  extra  maid's  room,  where  the  dog  slept  on  a  square  of  carpet.  Puppy  had  not  been  a  good  girl.  There  was  a  puddle  of  urine-not  on  the  open  newspaper  he  had  left  for  her,  just  in  case,  but  two  feet  away  from  it,  on  the  black-and-white  plastic-  tile  floor.  Her  tail  quivering  with  apol-  ogy,  she  watched  while  he  mopped  the  puddle  up  and  disposed  of  the  wet  newspaper  in  the  garbage  can  in  the  back  hall,  Then  she  followed  him  through  the  apartment  to  the  foyer,  and  into  the  elevator  when  it  came.  There  were  signs  all  along  the  river  walk:  No  Docs  No  Bicvyerss  No  THis  No  THat  He  ignored  them  with  a  clear  con-  science.  If  he  curbed  the  dog  before-  hand,  there  was  no  reason  not  to  turn  her  loose  and  let  her  run-except  that  sometimes  she  stopped  and  arched  her  back  a  second  time.  When  shouting  and  waving  his  hands  didn't  discourage  her  from  moving  her  bowels,  he  took  some  newspaper  from  a  trash  container  and  cleaned  up  after  her.  At  the  flagpole,  he  stood  looking  out  across  the  river.  The  lights  went  off     rmarver  rrr  Me  ske  all  the  way  up  the  airplane  beacon,  producing  an  effect  of  silence-as  if  somebody  had  started  to  say  something  and  then  decided  not  to.  The  tidal  cur-  rent  was  flowing  south.  He  raised  his  head  and  sniffed,  hoping  for  a  breath  of  the  sea,  and  smelled  gasoline  fumes  instead.  Coming  back,  the  dog  stopped  to  sniff  at  trash  baskets,  at  cement  cop-  ings,  and  had  to  be  restrained  from  greeting  the  only  other  person  on  the  river  walk-a  grey-haired  man  who  jogged  there  every  morning  ina  gym  suit  and  was  afraid  of  dogs.  He  smiled  pleasantly  at  George,  and  watched  Puppy  out  of  the  corner  of  his  eyes,  so  as  to  be  ready  when  she  leapt  at  his  throat.  A  tanker,  freshly  painted,  all  yellow  and  white,  and  flying  the  flag  of  George  had  no  idea  what  country  until  he  read  the  lettering  on  the  stern,  over-  took  him,  close  in  to  shore-so  close  he  could  see  the  captain  talking  to  a  sailor  in  the  wheelhouse.  To  be  sailing  down  556e6974656420537461746573on  a  ship  that  was  head-  ed  for  open  water...  He  waved  to  them  and  they  waved  back,  but  they  didn't  call  out  to  him  Come  on,  if  you  want  to,  and  it  was  too  far  to  jump.  It  came  to  him  with  the  seriousness  of  a  discovery  that  there  was  no  place  in  the  world  he  would  not  like  to  see.  Con-  cealed  in  this  statement  was  another  that  he  had  admitted  to  himself  for  the  first  time  only  recently.  There  were  places  he  would  never  see,  experiences  of  the  first  importance  that  he  would  never  have.  He  might  die  without  ever  having  heard  a  nightingale.  When  they  stepped  out  of  the  eleva-  tor,  the  dog  hurried  off  to  the  kitchen  to  see  if  there  was  something  in  her  dish  she  didn't  know  about,  and  George  settled  down  in  the  living  room  with  the  Times  on  his  lap  and  waited  for  a  glass  of  orange  juice  to  appear  at  his  place  at  the  dining-room  table.  The  rushing  sound  inside  the  walls,asof  an  underground  river,  was  Iris  running  her  bath.  The  orange  juice  was  in  no  hurry  to  get  to  the  dining-room  table.  Iris  had  been  on  the  phone  daily  with  the  employment  agency  and  for  the  moment  this  was  the  best  they  could  offer:  twenty-seven  years  old,  pale,  with  dirty  blond  hair,  unmarried,  over-  attached  to  her  mother,  and  given  to  burning  herself  on  the  antiquated  gas  stove.  She  lived  on  tea  and  cigarettes.  [REDACTED]  was  all  the  cooking  she  was  entrusted  with;  Iris  did  the  rest.  Morning  after  morning  his  boiled  egg  was  hard  enough  to  take  on  a  picnic.  A  blind  man  could  not  have  made  a  greater  hash  of  half  a  grapefruit.  The  " b"coffee  was  indescribable.  After  six  weeks  there  was  a  filmof  grease  over  everything  in  the  kitchen.  Round,  jolly,  neat,  professionally  trained,  a  marvel-  lous  cook,  the  mother  was  everything  that  is  desirable  in  a  servant  except  that,  alas,  she  worked  for  somebody  else,  She  drifted  in  and  out  of  the  apartment  at  odd  hours,  deluding  Iris  with  the  hope  that  some  of  her  accomplish-  ments  would,  if  one  were  only  patient,  rub  off  on  her  daughter.  &quot;Read,&quot;  a  voice  said,  bringing  him  all  the  way  back  from  Outer  Mon-  golia.  &quot;Tonight,  Cindy.&quot;  &quot;Read!  Read!&quot;  He  put  the  paper  down  and  picked  her  up  and  when  she  had  settled  com-  fortably  in  his  lap  he  began:  &quot;  (Emily  was  a  guinea  pig  who  loved  to  travel.  Generally  she  stayed  home  and  looked  after  her  brother  Arthur.  But  every  so  often  she  grew  tired  of  cooking  and  mending  and  washing  and  ironing;  the  day  would  seem  too  dark,  and  the  house  toosmall,  and  she  would  have  a  great  longing  to  set  out  into  the  dis-  tance.  ...'&quot;  Looking  down  at  the  top  of  her  head  as  he  was  reading,  he  felt  an  impulse  to  put  his  nose  down  and  smell  her  hair.  Born  in  a  hurry  she  was.  Born  in  one  hell  of  a  hurry,  half  anhour  aft-  er  her  mother  got  to  the  hospital.  EURIE  CARRINGTON  said,  &quot;What  is  the  difference,  what  is  the  differ-  ence  between  a  barber  and  a  woman  with  several  children?&quot;  Nobody  an-  swered,  so  she  asked  the  question  again.  &quot;I  give  up,&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;Do  you  know,  Daddy?&quot;  &quot;I  give  up  too,  we  all  give  up.&quot;  &quot;A  barber  ...has  razors  to  shave.  And  the  woman  has  shavers  to  raise.&quot;  He  looked  at  her  over  the  top  of  his  half-glasses,  wondering  what  ancestor  was  responsible  for  that  reddish-blond  hair.  &quot;That's  a  terribly  funny  one,  Laurie,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  the  best  one  [REDACTED];  and  his  eyes  reverted  to  the  edi-  torial  page.  A  nagging  voice  inside  his  head  informed  him  that  a  good  father  would  be  conversing  intelligently  with  his  children  at  the  breakfast  table.  But  about  what?  No  intelligent  subject  of  conversation  occurred  to  him,  perhaps  because  it  was  Iris's  idea  in  the  first  place,  not  his.  He  said,  &quot;Cindy,  would  you  like  a  bacon  sandwich?&quot;  She  thought,  long  enough  for  him  to  become  immersed  in  the  Times  again,  and  then  she  said,  &quot;I  would  like  a  piece  of  bacon  and  a  piece  of  toast.  But  not  a  bacon  sandwich.&quot;  He  dropped  a  slice  of  bread  in  the  " b"toaster  and  said,  &quot;Py-rozz-quozz-  gill&quot;'-a  magic  word,  from  one  of  the  Oz  books.  With  a  grinding  noise  the  bread  disappeared.  &quot;Stupid  Cindy,&quot;  Laurie  remarked,  tossing  her  head.  But  Cindy  wasn't  fooled.  Laurie  used  to  be  the  baby  and  now  she  wasn't  anymore.  She  was  the  oldest.  And  what  she  would  have  liked  to  be  was  the  oldest  and  the  baby.  About  lots  of  things  she  was  very  piggy.  But  she  couldn't  whistle.  Try  though  she  might,  whhih,whhih,  whhih,  she  couldn't.  And  Cindy  could.  The  toast  emerged  from  the  toaster  and  Iris  said,  &quot;Not  at  the  breakfast  ta-  ble,  Cindy.&quot;  The  morning  was  diffi-  cult  for  her,  clouded  with  amnesia,  with  the  absence  of  energy,  with  the  reluctance  of  her  body  to  take  on  any  action  whatever.  Straight  lines  curved unpleasantly,  hard  surfaces  presented  the  look  of  softness.  She  saw  George  and  the  children  and  the  dog  lying  at  her  feet  under  the  table  the  way  one  sees  rocks  and  trees  and  cottages  at  the  seashore  through  the  early-morning  fog;  just  barely  recognizable  they  were.  a  HY  is  a  church  steeple&quot;  &quot;My  gloves,&quot;  he  said,  stand-  ing  in  the  front  hall,  with  his  coat  on.  &quot;'They're  in  the  drawer  in  the  low-  boy,&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;Why  is  a  church  steeple&quot;  &quot;Not  those,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why  is  a-&quot;  &quot;Laurie,  Daddy  is  talking.  Look  in  the  pocket  of  your  chesterfield.&quot;  &quot;I  did.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  dear,  why  is  a  church  steeple.&quot;   &quot;Why  is  a  church  steeple  like  a  maiden  aunt?&quot;  &quot;I  give  up.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know,  Daddy?&quot;  &quot;No.  I've  looked  in  every  single  one  of  my  coats.  They  must  be  in  my  raincoat,  because  I  can't  find  that  either.&quot;  &quot;Look  in  your  closet.&quot;  &quot;I  did  look  there.&quot;  But  he  went  into  the  bedroom  and  looked  again  anyway.  Then  he  looked  all  through  the  front-  hall  closet,  including  the  mess  on  the  top  shelf.  Iris  passed  through  the  hall  with  her  arms  full  of  clothes  for  the  washing  machine.  &quot;Did  you  find  your  rain-  coat?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  must  have  left  it  somewhere,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  where?&quot;  He  went  back  to  the  bedroom  and  looked  in  the  engagement  calendar  on  her  desk,  to  see  where  they  had  been,  and  it  appeared  that  they  hadn't  been  any-  where.  &quot;Where  did  we  go  when  we  had  Albertha  to  babysit?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remem-  ber.&quot;  &quot;We  had  her  two  nights.&quot;  &quot;Did  we?  I  thought  we  only  went  out  one  night  last  week.&quot;  She  began  to  make  the  bed.  Beds-for  it  was  not  one  large  bed,  as  it  appeared  to  be  in  the  daytime,  but  twin  beds  placed  against  each  other  with  a  king-  sized  cotton  spread  covering  them  both.  When  they  were  first  married  they  slept  in  a  three-quarter  bed  from  his  bachelor  apartment.  In  time  this  became  a  double  bed,  hard  asa  rock  because  of  the  horsehair  mattress.  Then  it  also  proved  to  be  too  small.  For  he  developed  twitches.  While  he  was  falling  asleep  his  body  beside  her  would  suddenly  flail  out,  shaking  the  bed  and  waking  her  completely.  Six  or  sev-  en  times  this  would  happen.  After  which  he  would  descend  at  last  into  a  deep  sleep  and  she  would  be  left  " b"with  insomnia.  So  now  there  were  twin  beds,  and  even  then  her  bed  registered  the  seismic  disturbances  in  his,  though  nothing  like  so  much.  &quot;We  went  to  that  benefit.  With  Francis,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh  ...  I  think  I  did  wear  my  rain-  coat  that  night.  No,  I  wore  the  coat  with  the  velvet  collar.&quot;  &quot;The  cleaner's?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  don't  see  how  you  could  have  left  your  raincoat  somewhere,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  never  see  you  in  just  a  suit.  Other  men,  yes,  but  never  you.&quot;  He  went  into  the  hall  and  pulled  open  a  drawer  of  the  lowboy  and  took  out  a  pair  of  grey  gloves  and  drew  them  on.  They  had  been  his  father's  and  they  were  good  gloves  but  too  small  for  him.  His  fingers  had  burst  open  the  seams  at  the  end  of  the  fin-  gers.  Iris  had  mended  them,  but  they  would  not  stay  sewed,  and  so  he  went  to  Brooks  and  bought  a  new  pair-the  pair  he  couldn't  find.  &quot;The  Howards'  dinner  party?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That  was  the  week  before.  Don't  worry  about  it,&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;Cindy,  what  have  you  been  doing?&quot;-mean-  ing  hair  full  of  snarls,  teeth  unbrushed,  at  twenty-five  minutes  past  eight.  &quot;It  makes  me  feel  queer  not  know-  ing  where  I've  been,&quot;  George  said,  and  went  out  into  the  foyer  and  pressed  the  elevator  button.  From  that  moment,  he  was  some  other  man.  Their  pictures  were  under  his  nose  all  day  but  he  had  stopped  seeing  them.  He  did  not  even  remember  that  he  had  a  family,  until  five  o'clock,  when  he  pushed  his  chair  back  from  his  desk,  reached  for  his  hat  and  coat,  and  came  home,  cheerfully  unrepentant.  She  forgave  him  now  because  she  did  not  want  to  deal  with  any  failure,  in-  cluding  his,  until  she  had  had  her  sec-  ond  cup  of  coffee.  The  coffee  sat  on  the  living-room  mantelpiece,  growing  cold,  while  she  brushed  and  braided  Cindy's  hair.  &quot;Stand  still!  I'm  not  hurting  you.&quot;  &quot;You  are  too.&quot;  The  arm  would  not  go  into  the  sweater,  the  leggings  proved  to  be  on  backwards,  one  mitten  was  missing.  And  Laurie  wild  because  she  was  go-  ing  to  be  late  for  school.  The  girls  let  the  front  door  bang  in  spite  of  all  that  had  been  said  on  the  subject,  and  in  a  moment  the  elevator  doors  opened  to  receive  them.  'The  quiet  then  was  unbelievable.  With  the  Times  spread  out  on  the  coffee  table  in  the  living  room,  and  holes  in  the  Woman's  Page  where  she  had  cut  out recipes,  she  waited  for  her  soul,  which  left  her  during  the  night,  to  return  and  take  its  place  in  her  body,  When  this  happened  she  got  up  suddenly  and  went  into  the  bedroom  and  started  telephoning:  Bloomingdale's,  Saks,the  Maid-to-Order  service,  the  children's  school,  the  electrician,  the  pediatrician,  the  upholsterer-half  the  population  of  New  York  City,  OVER  the  side  of  the  bed  Cindy  went,  eyes  open,  wide  awake.  In  her  woolly  pyjamas  with  feetin  them.  Even  though  it  was  dark  outside-the  middle  of  the  night-it  was  only  half  dark  in  the  bedroom.  There  was  a  blue  night-light  in  the  wall  plug  by  the  doll's  house,  and  a  green  night-light  in  the  bathroom,  beside  the  washbasin,  and  the  door  to  the  bathroom  was  partly  open.  The  door  to  the  hall  was  wide  open  and  the  hall  light  was  on,  but  high  up  where  it  wasn't  much  comfort,  and  she  had  to  pass  the  closed  door  of  Laurie's  room  and  the  closed  door  to  the  front  hall.  Behind  both  these  doors  the  dark  was  very  dark,  unfriendly,  ready  to  spring  out  and  grab  her,  and  she  would  much  rather  have  been  back  in  her  bed  except  it  was  not  safe  there  either,  so  she  was  going  for  help.  When  she  got  to  the  door  at  the  end  of  the  hall,  she  stood  still,  afraid  to  27     knock  and  afraid  not  to  knock.  Afraid  to  look  behind  her.  Hoping  the  door  would  open  by  itself  and  it  did.  Her  father-huge,  in  his  pyjamas,  with  his  hair  sticking  up  and  his  face  puffy  with  sleep.  &quot;Bad  dream?&quot;  he  asked.  Behind  him  the  room  was  all  dark  except  for  a  little  light  from  the  hall.  She  could  see  the  big  windows-just  barely-and  the  great  big  bed,  and  her  mother  asleep  under  a  mound  of  cov-  ers.  And  if  she  ran  past  him  and  got  into  the  bed  she  would  be  safe,  but  it  was  not  allowed.  Only  when  she  was  sick.  She  turned  and  went  back  down  the  hall,  without  speaking  but  knowing  that  he  would  pick  up  his  bathrobe  and  follow  her  and  she  didn't  have  to  be  brave  anymore.  &quot;What's  Teddy  doing  on  the  floor?&quot;  he  said,  and  pulled  the  covers  up  around  her  chin,  and  put  his  warm  hand  on  her  cheek.  So  nice  to  have  him  do  this-to  have  him  there,  sitting  on  the  edge  of  her  bed.  &quot;Can  you  tell  me  what  you  were  dreaming  about?&quot;  &quot;Tiger.&quot;  &quot;'Yes?  Well  that's  too  bad.  Were  you  very  frightened?&quot;  &quot;Yes&quot;  &quot;Was  it  a  big  tiger?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;You  know  it  was  only  a  dream?  It  " b"wasn't  a  real  tiger.  There  aren't  any  tigers  in  New  York  City.&quot;  &quot;In  the  zoo  thereare.&quot;  &quot;Oh  yes,  but  they're  in  cages  and  can't  get  out.  Was  this  tiger  out?&quot;  &quot;YeS.&quot;)  &quot;Then  it  couldn't  have  been  a  real  tiger.  Turn  over  and  let  me  rub  your  back.&quot;  &quot;If  you  rub  my  back  I'll  go  to  sleep.&quot;  &quot;Good  idea.&quot;  &quot;If  I  go  to  sleep  I'll  dream  about  the  tiger.&quot;  &quot;I  see.  What  do  you  want  me  to  do?&quot;  &quot;Get  in  bed  with  me.&quot;  What  with  Teddy  and  Raggedy  Ann  and  Baby  Dear,  and  books  to  look  at  in  the  morning,  and  the  big  pillow  and  the  little  pillow,  things  were  a  bit  crowded.  He  put  his  hand  over  his  eyes  to  shut  out  the  hall  light  and  said,  &quot;Go  to  sleep,&quot;  but  she  didn't,  even  though  she  was  beginning  to  feel  drowsy.  She  was  afraid  he  was  going  to  leave  her-if  not  right  this  minute  then  pretty  soon.  He  would  sit  up  in  bed  and  say  Are  you  all  right  now?  and  she  would  have  to  say  Yes,  because  that  was  what  he  wanted  her  to  say.  Some-  times  she  said  noand  they  stayed  a  little  longer,  but  they  always  went  away  in  the  end.  After  a  while,  her  eyes  closed.  After  still  another  while,  she  felt  the  bed  heave  under  her  as  he  sat  up.  He  got  out  of  bed  slowly  and  carefully  and  fixed  the  covers  and  put  the  little  red  chair  by  the  bed  so  she  wouldn't  fall  out.  She  tried  to  say  Dow't  go,  but  nothing  happened.  'The  floorboards  creaked  under  the  carpeting  as  he  crossed  the  room.  In  the  doorway  he  turned  and  looked  at  her,  one  last  look,  and  she  opened  her  eyes  wide  so  he  would  know  she  wasn't  asleep,  and  he  waved  her  a  kiss,  and  that  was  the  last  of  him,  but  it  wasn't  the  last  of  her.  Pretty  soon,  even  though  there  wasn't  a  sound,  she  knew  something  was  in  the  room.  Hiding.  It  was  either  hiding  behind  the  curtains  or  it  was  hiding  in  thetoy  closet  or  it  was  hiding  behind  the  doll's  house  or  it  was  behind  the  bathroom  door  or  it  was  under  the  bed.  But  wherever  it  was  it  was  being  abso-lutely  still,  waiting  for  her  to  close  her  eyes  and  go  to  sleep.  So  she  kept  them  open,  even  though  her  eyelids  got  heavier  and  heavier.  She  made  them  stay  open.  And  when  they  closed  she  opened  them  again  right  afterward.  She  kept  opening  them  as  long  as  she  could,  and  once  she  cried  out  Lawrie!  very  loud,  but  in  her  mind  only.  There  was  no  sound  in  the  room.  The  thing  that  was  hiding  didn't  make  any  sound  either,  which  made  her  think  maybe  it  wasn't  a  tiger  after  all,  because  tigers  have  a  terrible  roar  that  they  roar,  but  it  couldn't  have  been  anything  else,  for  it  had  stripes  and  a  tail  and  terrible  teeth  and  eyes  that  were  looking  at  her  through  the  back  of  the  little  red  chair.  And  her  heart  was  pounding  and  the  tiger  knew  this,  and  the  only  friend  she  had  in  the  world  was  Teddy,  and  Teddy  couldn't  move,  and  neither  could  Raggy,  and  neither  could  she.  But  the  tiger  could  move.  He  could  do  anything  he  wanted  to  except  roar  his  terrible  roar,  because  then  the  bedroom  door  would  fly  open  and  they  would  come  running.  She  looked  at  the  tiger  through  the  " b"back  of  the  little  red  chair,  and  the  tiger  looked  at  her,  and  finally  it  thrashed  its  tail  once  or  twice  and  then  went  and  put  its  head  in  the  air-con-  ditioner.  That  isn't  possible.  ...  But  it  was.  More  and  more  of  his  body  disappeared  into  the  air-conditioner,  and  finally  there  was  only  his  tail,  and  thenonly  the  tip  of  his  tail,  and  when  that  was  gone  so  was  she.  HE  young  policeman  who  stood  all  night  on  the  corner  of  East  End  Avenue  and  Gracie  Square,  eight  stories  below,  was  at  the  phone  box,  having  a  conversation  with  the  sergeant  on  the  desk.  This  did  not  prevent  him  from  keeping  his  eyes  on  an  emaciated  junkie  who  stood  peering  through  the  window  of  the  drugstore,  past  the  ice-  cream  bin,  the  revolving  display  of  pa-  perbacks,  the  plastic  toys,  hair  sprays,  hand  creams,  cleansing  lotions,  etc.,  at  the  prescription  counter.  The  door  had  a  grating  over  it  but  the  plate-glass  window  did  not.  One  good  kick  would  do  it,  It  would  also  bring  the  policeman  running.  The  policeman  would  have  been  happy  to  turn  the  junkie  in,  but  he  didn't  have  anything  on  him.  Vagran-cy?  But  suppose  he  had  a  home?  And  suppose  it  brought  the  Civil  Liberties  Union  running!  The  policeman  turned  his  back  for  a  minute  and  when  he  looked  again  the  junkie  was  gone,  vanished,  nowhere.  Though  it  was  between  three  and  four  in  the  morning,  people  were  walk-  ing  their  dogs  in  Carl  Schurz  Park.  Amazing.  Dreamlike.  And  the  sign  on  the  farther  shore  of  the  river  that  changed  back  and  forth  continually  was  enough  to  unhinge  the  mind:  PEARL-  WICK  HAMPERS  became  BATHROOM  HAMPERS,  which  in  turn  became  PEARLWICK  HAMPERS,  and  some-  times  for  a  fraction  ofa  second  BATH-WICK  HAMPERS.  In  the  metal  trash  containers  scat-  tered  here  and  there  along  the  winding  paths  of  the  park  were  pieces  of  waxed  paper  that  had  been  around  food  but  nothing  you  could  actually  eat.  The  junkie  didn't  go  into  the  playground  because  the  gates  were  locked  and  it  had  a  high  iron  fence  around  it.  He  could  have  managed  this  easily  by  climbing  a  tree  and  dropping  to  the  cement  on  the  other  side.  Small  boys  did  it  all  the  time.  And  maybe  in  there  he  would  have  found  something-a  half-eaten  Milky  Way  or  Mounds  bar  that  a  nursemaid  had  taken  from  a  child  with  a  finicky  appetite-but  then  he  would  have  been  locked  in  instead  of  out,  and  he  knew  all  there  was  to  know  about  that:  Sing  Sing,  Rikers  Is-  land,  Auburn,  Dannemora.  His  name  is  James  Jackson,  and  he  is  a  figure  out  of  a  nightmare-unless  you  happen  to  know  what  happened  to  him,  the  steady  rain  of  blows  about  his  unprotected  head  ever  since  he  was  born,  in  which  case  it  is  human  life  that  seems  like  a  nightmare.  The  dog  walkers,  suppos-  ing-correctly-that  he  had  a  switch-  blade  in  his  pocket  and  a  certain  amount  of  experience  in  using  it,  chose  a  path  that  detoured  around  him.  The  " b"wind  was  out  of  the  southeast  and  smelled  of  the  sea,  fifteen  miles  away  on  the  other  side  of  Long  Beach  and  Far  Rockaway.  The  Hell  Gate  section  of  the  Triborough  Bridge  was  a  neck-  lace  of  sickly-green  incandescent  pearls.  When  the  policeman  lefthis  post  and  took  a  turn  through  the  south  end  of  the  park,  the  junkie  was  sitting  inno-  cently  on  a  bench  on  the  river  walk.  He  was  keeping  the  river  company.  And  when  the  policeman  got  back  to  his  post  a  woman  in  a  long  red  coat  was  going  through  the  trash  basket  directly  across  the  street  from  him.  She  was  harmless.  He  saw  her  night  after  night.  And  in  a  minute  she  would  cross  over  and  tell  him  about  the  doctor  at  Bellevue  who  said  she  probably  dreamed  that  somebody  picked  the  lock  of  her  door  while  she  was  out  buying  coffee  and  stole  her  mother's  gold  thimble.  The  threads  that  bound  the  woman  in  the  long  red  coat  to  a  particular  ad-  dress,  to  the  family  she  had  been  born  into,  her  husband's  grave  in  the  Brook-  lyn  cemetery,  and  the  children  who  never  wrote  except  to  ask  for  money,  had  broken,  and  she  was  now  free  to  wander  along  the  street,  scavenging  from  trash  containers.  She  did  not  mind  if  people  saw  her,  or  feel  that  what  she  was  doing  was  in  any  way  exceptional.  When  she  found  some-  thing  useful  or  valuable,  she  stuffed  it  in  her  dirty  canvas  bag,  the  richer  by  a  pair  of  sandals  with  a  broken  strap  ora  perfectly  clean  copy  of  &quot;Sartor  Resar-  tus.&quot;  What  in  the  beginning  was  only  an  uncertainty,  an  uneasiness,  a  sense  of  the  falsity  of  appearances,  a  suspicion  that  the  completely  friendly  world  she  lived  in  was  in  fact  secretly  mocking  and  hostile,  had  proved  to  be  true.  Or  rather,  had  become  true-for  it  wasn't  always.  And  meanwhile,  in  her  mind,  she  was  perpetually  composing  a  state-  ment,  for  her  own  use  and  understand-  ing,  that  would  cover  this  situation.  Three  colored  lights  passed  over-  head,  very  high  up  and  in  a  cluster,  blinking.  There  were  also  lights  strung  through  the  park  at  intervals,  and  on  East  End  Avenue,  where  taxicabs  cruised  up  and  down  with  their  roof-  lights  on.  Nobody  wanted  them.  As  if  they  had  never  in  their  life  shot  through  a  red  light,  the  taxis  stopped  at  Eighty-third  Street,  and  again  at  Eighty-fourth,  and  went  on  when  the  light  turned  green.  East  End  Avenue  was  as  quiet  as  the  grave.  So  were  the  side  streets.  With  the  first  hint  of  morning,  this  beautiful  quiet  came  to  an  end.  Stop-  ping  and  starting,  making  a  noise  like  an  electric  toaster,  a  Depart-  ment  of  Sanitation  truck  made  its  way  down  Eighty-fourth  Street,  murdering  sleep.  Crash.  Tinkle.  More  grinding.  Bump.  Thump.  Voices.  A  brief  silence  and  then  the  whole  thing  start-  ed  up  again  farther  down  the  street.  This  was  followed  by  oth-  er  noises-a  parked  car  being  warmed  up,  a  maniac  in  a  sports  car  with  no  muffler.  And  then  suddenly  it  was  the  policeman's  turn  to  be  gone.  A  squad  car  drove  by,  with  the  car  radio  playing  an  old  Bing  Crosby  song,  and  picked  him  up.  Biding  his  time,  the  junkie  managed  to  slip  past  the  service  entrance  of  one  ofthe  apartment  buildings  on  East  End  Avenue  without  being  seen.  Around  in  back  he  saw  an  open  window  on  the  ground  floor  with  no  bars  over  it.  On  the  other  hand  he  didn't  know  who  or  what  he  would  find  when  he  climbed  through  it,  and  he  shouldn't  have  waited  till  morning.  He  stood  flattened  against  a  brick  wall  while  a  handyman  took  in  the  empty  garbage  cans.  The  sound  of  retreating  footsteps  died  away.  The  door  to  the  service  entrance  was  wide  open.  In  a  matter  of  seconds  James  Jackson  was  in  and  out  again,  wheeling  a  new  ten-speed  Peugeot.  He  straddled  the  bicycle  as  if  he  and  not  the  overweight  insurance  broker  in  7E  had  paid  good  money  for  it,  and  rode  off  down  the  street.  with  rain  or  show-  ers  ...'  Cindy,  did  you  know  you  dreamt  about  a  tiger  last  night?&quot;  &quot;Cindy  dreamt  about  a  tiger?&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;Yes.  What  happened  after  I  left?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  &quot;Congratulations.  I  dreamt  the  air-  conditioner  in  our  room  broke  and  we  couldn't  get  anybody  to  come  and  fix  it.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  broken?&quot;  Iris  asked.  &quot;I  don't  know.  We'll  have  to  wait  till  next  summer  to  find  out.&quot;  4C  OOD  morning,  Laurie.:  Good  morning,  Cindy,&quot;  Jimmy  the  daytime  elevator  man  said  cheerfully.  No  answer.  But  no  rudeness  intended  either.  They  did  not  know  they  were  in  the  elevator.  The  red-haired  doorman  at  No.  7  Gracie  Square  stretched  out  his  arms  and  pretended  he  was  going  to  capture  Cindy.  This  happened  morning  after  " b"morning,  and  she  put  up  with  it  pa-  tiently.  &quot;Taxi!&quot;  people  wailed.  &quot;Texi!&quot;  But  there  were  no  taxis  Or  if  one  came  along  there  was  somebody  in  it.  The  doorman  of  No.  10  stood  in  the  middle  of  East  End  Avenue  and  blew  his  whistle  at  nothing.  On  a  balcony  five  stories  above  the  street,  a  man  ly-  ing  on  his  back  with  his  hips  in  the  air  was  being  put  through  his  morning  exercises  by  a  Swedish  masseur.  The  tired  middle-aged  legs  went  up  and  down  like  pistons.  Like  pistons,  the  elevators  rose  and  fell  in  all  the  build-  ings  overlooking  the  park,  bringing  the  maids  and  laundresses  up,  taking  men  with  briefcases  down.  The  stationery  store  and  the  cleaners  were  now  open.  So  was  the  luncheonette.  The  two  little  girls  stopped,  took  each  other  by  the  hand,  and  looked  carefully  both  ways  before  they  crossed  the  car  tunnel  at  No.  10.  On  the  river  walk  Laurie  saw  an  acquaintance  and  ran  on  ahead.  Poor  Cindy!  At  her  back  was  the  park-very  agreeable  to  play  in  when  she  went  there  with  her  moth-  er  or  the  kindergarten  class,  but  also  frequented  by  rough  boys  with  water  pistols  and  full  of  bushes  it  could  be  hiding  in-and  on  her  right  was  the  deep  pit  alongside  No.  10;  it  could  be  down  there,  below  the  sidewalk  and  waiting  to  spring  out  when  she  came  along.  She  did  not  look  to  see  if  it  was  there  but  kept  well  over  to  the  other  side,  next  to  the  outer  rail-  ing  and  the  river.  A  tug  with  four  empty  barges  was  nosing  its  way  upstream.  The  Simpsons'  cook  waved  to  Cindy  from  their  kitchen  window,  which  looked  out  on  the  river  walk,  and  Cindy  waved  back.  In  the  days  when  George  used  to  take  Laurie  to  kindergarten  because  she  was  too  small  to  walk  to  school  by  herself,  he  had  no-  ticed  her-a  big  wom-  an  with  blond  braids  in  a  crown  around  her  head.  And  one  day  he  said,  &quot;Shall  we  wave  to  her  and  see  what  happens?&quot;  Sometimes  her  back  was  turned  to  the  window  and  she  didn't  know  that  Cindy  and  Laurie  were  there.  They  did  not  ever  think  of  her  except  when  they  saw  her,  and  if  they  had  met  her  face  to  face  she  would  have  had  to  do  all  the  talking.  Laurie  was  waiting  at  the  Eighty-  third  Street  gate.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Stupid-head,&quot;  Cindy  said.  They  went  into  the  school  building  together,  ignoring  the  big  girls  in  camel's-hair  coats  who  held  the  door  open  for  them.  But  it  wasn't  like  Jimmy  the  elevator  man;  they  knew  the  big  girls  were  there.  Sitting  on  the  floor  of  her  cubby,  with  her  gym  sneakers  under  her  bot-  tom  and  her  cheek  against  her  green  plaid  coat,  Cindy  felt  safe.  But  Miss  Nichols  kept  trying  to  get  her  to  come  out.  The  sandbox,  the  blocks,  the  cray-  ons-Cindy  said  no  to  them  all,  and  suckedher  thumb.  So  Miss  Nichols  sat  down  on  a  little  chair  and  took  Cindy  on  her  lap.  &quot;If  there  was  a  Cindy asked  finally.  In  a  soft  coaxing  voice  Miss  Nichols  said,  &quot;If  there  was  a  what?&quot;  Cindy  wouldn't  say  what.  )?&quot;  Cindy  HE  fire  engines  raced  down  Eighty-sixth  Street,  sirens  shrick-  ing  and  horns  blowing,  swung  south through  a  red  light,  and  came  to  a  stop  by  the  alarm  box  on  the  corner  of  East  End  Avenue  and  Gracie  Square.  The  firemen  jumped  down  and  stood  talking  in  the  middle  of  the  street.  The  hoses  remained  neatly  folded  and  the  ladders  horizontal.  It  was  the  sec-  ond  false  alarm  that  night  from  this  same  box.  A  county  fair  wouldn't  have  made  more  commotion  under  their  win-  dows  but  it  had  happened  too  often  and  George  and  Iris  Carrington  went  on  sleeping  peacefully,  flat  on  their  backs,  like  stone  figures  on  a  medieval  tomb.  IN  the  trash  basket  on  the  corner  by  the  park  gates  there  was  a  copy  of  the  Daily  News  which  said,  in  big  let-  ters,  &quot;TIGER  ESCAPES,&quot;  but  that  was  a  different  tiger;  that  tiger  escaped  from  a  circus  in  Jamestown,  WHAT  is  it?&quot;  Iris  asked,  in  the  flower  shop.  &quot;Why  are  you  pulling  at  my  skirt?&quot;  The  flower-shop  woman  (pink  blond  hair,  Viennese  accent)  offered  Cindy  a  green  carnation,  and  she  re-  fused  to  take  it.  &quot;You  don't  like  flow-  ers?&quot;  the  woman  asked,  coyly,  and  the  tiger  kept  on  looking  at  Cindy  from  behind  some  big,  wide  rubbery  green " b"leaves.  &quot;She's  shy,&quot;  the  flower-shop  woman  said.  &quot;Not  usually,&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;I  don't  know  what's  got  into  her  today.&quot;  She  gave  the  woman  some  money,  and  the  woman  gave  her  some  money  and  some  flowers,  and  then  she  and  Cindy  went  outside,  but  Cindy  was  afraid  to  look  behind  her.  If  the  tiger  was  fol-  lowing  them,  it  was  better  not  to  know.  For  half  a  block  she  had  a  tingling  sensation  in  the  center  of  her  back,  be-  tween  her  shoulder  blades.  But  then,  looking  across  the  street,  she  saw  that  the  tiger  was  not  back  there  in  the  flower  shop.  It  must  have  left  when  they  did,  and  now  it  was  looking  at  her  from  the  round  hole  in  a  cement  mixer.  The  lights  changed  from  red  to  green,  and  Iris  took  her  hand  and  started  to  cross  over.  &quot;I  want  to  go  that  way,&quot;Cindy  said,  holding  back,  until  the  light  changed  again.  Since  she  was  never  al-  lowed  on  the  street  alone,  she  was  not  really  afraidof  meeting  the  tiger  all  by  herself.  But  what  if  some  day  it  should  walk  into  the  elevator  when  Jimmy  wasn't  looking,  and  get  off  at  their  floor,  and  hide  behind  Laurie's  bicycle  and  the  scooters.  And  what  if  the  front  door  opened  and  somebody  came  out  and  pressed  the  elevator  but-  ton  and  the  tiger  got  inside  when  they  weren't  looking.  And  what  if-  &quot;Oh,  please  don't  hold  back,  Cindy!  I'm  late  as  anything!&quot;  So,  dangerous  as  it  was,  she  allowed  herself  to  be  hurried  along  home.  AP,  tap,  tap  .  ..  In  the  night  this  was,  just  after  Iris  and  George  had  got  to  sleep.  &quot;Oh,  no!&quot;  Iris  moaned.  But  it  was.  When  he  opened  the  door,  there  she  stood.  AP,  tap  ...  That  same  night,  two  hours  later.  Sound  asleep  but  able  to  walk  and  talk,  he  put  on  his  bathrobe  and  followed  her  down  the  hall.  Stretched  out  beside  her,  he  tried  to  go  on  sleep-  ing  but  he  couldn't.  He  said,  &quot;What  were  you  dreaming  about  this  time?&quot;  &quot;Sea-things.&quot;  &quot;What  kind  of  seethings?&quot;  &quot;Sea-things  under  the  sea.&quot;  &quot;'Things  that  wiggled?&quot; &quot;'Yes.&quot;' &quot;Something  was  after  you?&quot;  &quot;Yes.'&quot;'  &quot;'Too  bad.  Go  to  sleep.&quot;  AP,  tap  ...  This  time  as  he  heaved  him-  self  up,  Iris  said  to  him,  &quot;You  lie  still.&quot;  She  got  up  and  opened  the  door  to  the  hall  and  said,  &quot;Cindy,  we're  tired  and  we  need  our  sleep.  I  want  you  to  go  back  to  your  bed  and  stay  there.&quot;  Then  they  both  lay  awake,  listening  to  the  silenceat  the  other  end  of  the  hall.  &quot;J  CAME  out  of  the  building,&quot;  Iris  said,  &quot;and  I  had  three  letters  that  Jimmy  had  given  me,  and  it  was  rain-  ing  hard,  and  the  wind  whipped  them  right  out  of  my  hand.&quot;  He  took  a  sip  of  his  drink  and  then  said,  &quot;Did  you  get  them?&quot;  &quot;I  got  two  of  them.  One  wasfrom  the  Richards  children,  thanking  me  for  the  toys  I  sent  when  Lonnie  was  in  the  hospital.  And  one  was  a  note  from  Mrs.  Mills.  I  never  did  find  the  third.  It  was  a  small  envelope,  and  the  hand-  writing  was  Society.&quot;  &quot;A  birthday  party  for  Cindy.&quot;  &quot;No.  It  was  addressed  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Carrington.  Cocktail  party,  probably.&quot;  He  glanced  at  the  windows.  It  was  already  dark.  Then,  the  eternal  opti-  mist  (also  remembering  the  time  he  found  the  button  that  flew  off  her  coat  and  rolled  under  a  parked  car  on  Eighty-fifth  Street):  &quot;Which  way  did  it  blow?  I'll  look  for  it  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  there's  no  use.  You  can  see  by  the  others.  They  were  reduced  to  pulp  by  the  rain,  in  just  that  minute,  And  anyway,  Idid  look,  this  afternoon.&quot;  In  the  morning,  he  took  the  Seventy-  ninth  Street  crosstown  bus  instead  of  the  Eighty-sixth,  so  that  he  could  look  forthe  invitation  that  blew  away.  No  luck.  The  invitation  had  already  passed  through  a  furnace  in  the  Department  of  Sanitation  building  on  Ninetieth  Street  and  now,  in  the  form  of  ashes,  was  floating  down  556e6974656420537461746573on  a  garbage  scow,  on  its  way  out  to  sea.  The  sender,  rebuffed  in  this  first  tentative  effort  to  get  to  know  the  Car-  ringtons  better,  did  not  try  again.  She  had  met  them  at  a  dinner  party,  and  liked  them  both,  She  was  old  enough  to   be  Iris's  mother,  and  it  puzzled  her  that  a  young  woman  who  seemed  to  be  well-bred  and  was  quite  lovely-looking  and  adored  &quot;Middlemarch&quot;  should  turn  out  to  have  nomanners,  but  she  didn't  brood  about  it.  New  York  is  full  of  pleasant  young  couples,  and  if  one  chooses  to  ignore  your  invitation  the  chances  are  another  won't.  &quot;T  ID  you  hearLaurie  in  the  night?&quot;  Iris  said.,  &quot;No.  Did  Laurie  have  a  night-  mare?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  thought  you  were  awake.&quot;  &quot;I  don'tthink  so.&quot;  He  got  up  out  of  bed  and  went  into  the  children's  room  and  turned  on  the  radiators  so  they  wouldn't  catch  cold.  Laurie  was  sitting  up  in  bed  reading.  &quot;Mommy  says  you  had  a  bad  dream  last  night.&quot;  &quot;'There  were  three  dreams,&quot;  she  said,  in  an  overdistinct  voice,  as  if  she  were  a  grown  woman  at  a  committee  meeting.  &quot;The  first  dream  was  about  Miss  Stevenson.  I  dreamed  she  wasn't  nice  to  me.  She  was  like  the  wicked  witch.&quot;  &quot;Miss  Stevenson  loves  you.&quot;  &quot;And  the  second  dream  was  about  snakes.  They  were  all  over  the  floor.  It  was  like  a  rug  made  up  of  snakes,  and  very  icky,  and  there  was  a  giant,  andCathy  and  I  were  against  him,  and  he  was  trying  to  shut  me  in  the  room  where  the  snakes  were,  and  one  of  the  snakes  bit  me,  but  he  wasn't  the  kind  of  snake  that  kills  you,  he  was  just  a  mean  snake,  and  so  it  didn't  hurt.  And  the  third  dream  was  a  happy  dream.  I  was  with  Cathy  and  we  were  skating  together  and  pulling  our  mommies  by  strings.&quot;  TTH  his  safety  razor  ready  to  be-  gin  a  downward  sweep,  George  Carrington  studied  the  lathered  face  in  the  mirror  ofthe  medicine  cabinet.  He  shook  his  head.  There  was  a  fatal  flaw  in  his  character:  Nobody  was  ever  as  real  to  him  as  he  was  to  himself.  If  people  knew  how  little  he  cared  wheth-  er  they  lived  or  died,  they  wouldn't  want  to  have  anything  to  do  with  him.  HE  dog  moved  back  and  forth  between  the  two  ends  of  the  apartment,  on  good  terms  with  every-  body,  She  was  in  the  dining  room  at  mealtimes,  and  in  the  kitchen  when  Iris  was  getting  dinner  (when  quite  often  something  tasty  fell  off  the  edge  of  the  kitchen  table),  and  she  was  there  again  just  after  dinner,  in  case  the  plates  were  put  on  the  floor  for  her  to  lick  before  they  went  into  the  dishwasher.  In  the  late  afternoon,  for     " b"an  hour  before  it  was  time  for  her  can  of  beef-and-beef-byproducts,  she  sat  with  her  front  paws  crossed,  facing  the  kitchen  clock,  a  reminding  statue.  After  she  had  been  fed,  she  went  to  the  living  room  and  lay  down  before  the  unlit  log  fire  in  the  fireplace  and  slept  until  bedtime.  In  the  morning,  she  followed  Iris  back  and  forth  through  room  after  room,  until  Iris  was  dressed  and  ready  to  take  her  out.  &quot;Must  you  nag  me  so?&quot;  Iris  cried,  but  the  dog  was  not  intimidated.  'There  was  some-  thing  they  were  in  agreement  about,  though  only  one  of  them  could  have  put  it  in  words:  It  is  a  crime  against  Na-  ture  to  keep  a  hunting  dog  in  the  city.  George  sometimes  gave  her  a  slap  on  her  haunches  when  she  picked  up  food  in  the  gutteror  lunged  at  another  dog.  And  if  she  jerked  on  her  leash  he  jerked  back,  harder.  But  with  Iris  she  could  do  anything-she  could  even  stand  under  the  canopy  and  refuse  to  go  any  where  because  it  was  raining.  Walking  by  the  river,  below  Eighti-  eth  Street,  it  wasn't  necessary  to  keep  her  on  a  leash,  and  while  Iris  went  on  ahead  Puppy  sniffed  atthe  godforsaken  grass  and  weeds  that  grew  between  the  cementwalk  and  556e6974656420537461746573Drive.  Then  she  overtook  Iris,  at  full  speed,  overshot  the  mark,  and  came  charging  back,  showing  her  teeth  in  a  grin.  Three  orfour  times  she  did  this,  as  a  rule-with  Iris  applauding  and  con-  gratulating  her  and  cheering  her  on.  It  may  bea  crime  against  Nature  to  keep  a  hunting  dog  in  the  city,  but  this  one  was  happy  anyway.  FTER  a  series  of  dreams  in  which  people  started  out  as  one  person  and  ended  up  another  and  he  found  that  there  was  no  provision  for  getting  from  where  he  was  to  where  he  wanted  to  go  and  it  grew  later  and  later  and  even  after  the  boat  had  left  he  still  went  on  packing  his  clothes  and  what  he  thought  was  his  topcoat  turned  out  to  belong  to  a  friend  he  had  not  seen  for  seventeen  years  and  naked  strangers  came  and  went,  he  woke  and  thought  he  heard  a  soft  tapping  on  the  bedroom  door.  But  when  he  got  up  and  opened  it  there  was  no  one  there.  &quot;Was  that  Cindy?&quot;  Iris  asked  as  he  got  back  into  bed.  &quot;No.  I  thought  I  heard  her,  but  I  must  have  imagined  it.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  I  heard  her  too,&quot;  Iris  said,  and  turned  over.  At  breakfast  he  said,  &quot;Did  you  have  any  bad  dreams  last  night?&quot;  but  Cindy  was  making  a  lake  in  the  middle  of  her  oatmeal  and  didn't  answer.  &quot;I  thought  I  heard  you  tapping  on  our  door,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  didn't  dream  about  a  wolf,  or  a  tiger,  or  abig  black  dog?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember,&quot;  she  said.  YOU'LL never  guess  what  Ijust  saw  from  the  bedroom  window,&quot;  Iris  said.  He  put  down  his  book.  &quot;A  police  wagon  drove  down  Eighty-fourth  Street  and  stopped,  and  two  policemen  with  guns  got  out  and  went  into  a  building  and  didn't  come  out.  And  after  a  long  while  two  more  policemen  came  and  they  went  into  the  building,  and  pretty  soon  they  all  came  out  with  a  big  man  with  black  hair,  " b"handcuffed.  Right  there  on  Eighty-  fourth  Street,  two  doors  from  the  cor-  ner.&quot;  &quot;Nice  neighborhood  we  live  in,&quot;  he  said.  \xe2\x80\x9cDADDY,  Daddy,Daddy,  Daddy!&quot;  came  into  his  dreams  without  waking  him,  and  what  did  wake  him  was  the  heaving  of  the  other  bed  as  Iris  got  up  and  hurried  toward  the  bed-  room  door.  &quot;It  was  Cindy,&quot;  came  back,  &quot;Dream?&quot;  he  asked.  I\xe2\x80\x98ch.)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;I  heard  her  but  went  on  dreaming  myself.&quot;  &quot;She  doesn't  usually  cry  out  like  that.&quot;  &quot;Laurie  used  to.&quot;  Why  all  these  dreams,  he  wondered,  and  drifted  gently  back  to  sleep,  as  if  he  already  knew  the  answer,  She  turned  and  turned,  and  finally,  after  three-  quartersof  an  hour,  got  up  and  filled  the  hot-water  bottle.  What  for  days  had  been  merely  a  half-formed  thought  in  the  back  of  her  mind  was  now  sudden-  ly,  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  making  her  rigid  with  anxiety.  She  needed  to  talk,  and  couldn't  bring  herself  to  wake  him.  What  she  wanted  to  say  was  they  were  making  a  mistake  in  bringing  the  children  up  in  New  York  City.  Or  even  in  [REDACTED].  There  was  too  much  that  there  was  no  way  to  protect  them  from,  and  the  only  sensible  thing  would  be  to  pull  up  stakes  now,  before  Laurie  reached  adolescence.  They  could  sublet  the  apartment  until  the  lease  ran  out,  and  take  a  house  somewhere  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED],  near  Aix  per-  haps,  and  the  children  could  go  to  a  French  school,  and  they  could  all  go  skiing  in  [REDACTED]  in  the  winter,  and  Cindy  could  have  her  own  horse,  and  they  both  would  acquire  a  good  French  accent,  and  be  allowed  to  grow  up  slow-  ly,  in  the  ordinary  way,  and  not  be  jaded  by  one  premature  experience  after  an-  other,  before  they  were  old  enough  to  understand  any  of  it.  With  the  warmth  at  her  back,  and  the  comforting  feeling  that  she  had  found  the  hole  in  the  net,  gradually  she  fell  asleep  too.  But  when  she  brought  the  matter  up  two  days  later  he  looked  at  her  blankly.  He  did  not  oppose  her  idea  but  neither  did  he  accept  it,  and  so  her  hands  were  tied.  '  she  said  when  she  S$  usual,  the  fathers'  part  in  the  Christmas  program  had  to  be  re-  hearsed  beforehand.  In  the  small  prac-  tice  room  on  the  sixthfloor  of  the  school,  their  masculini-  ty-their  grey  flannel  or  dark-blue  pin-striped  suits,  their  size  9,  10,  11,  11%,  and  12  shoes,  their  gold  cufflinks,  the  odor  that  emanated  from  their  bodies  and  from  their  freshly  shaved  cheeks,  their  simple  assurance,  based  on,  among  other  things,  the  Social  Register  and the  size  of  their  in-come-was  incongru-  ous.  They  were  handed  sheets  of  music  as  they  came  in,  and  the  room  was  crammed  with  folding  chairs,  all  facing  the  ancient  grand  piano.  With  the  two  tall  windows  attheir  backs  they  were  missing  the  snow,  which  was  a  pity.  It  went  up,  down,  diagonal-  ly,  and  in  centrifugal  motion-all  at  once.  The  fact  that  no  two  of  the  star-  shaped  crystals  were  the  same  was  a  miracle,  of  course,  but  it  was  a  miracle  that  everybody  has  long  since  grown  accustomed  to.  The  light  outside  the  windows  was  cold  and  grey.  &quot;Since  there  aren't  very  many  of  you,&quot;  the  music  teacher  said,  &quot;you'll  have  to  make  up  for  it  by  singing  en-  thusiastically.&quot;  She  was  young,  in  her  late  twenties,  and  had  difficulty  keep-  ing  discipline  in  the  classroom;  the  girls  took  advantage  of  her  good  na-  ture,  and  never  stopped  talking  and  gave  her  their  complete  attention.  She  sat  down  at  the  piano  now  and  played  the  opening  bars  of  &quot;O  come,  O  come,  Emmanuel/And  ransom  captive  I-i-  i-zrabh-el  ...&quot;  Somebody  in  the  second  row  ex-  claimed,  &quot;Oh  God!&quot;  under  his  breath.  The  music  was  set  too  high  for  men's  voices.  &quot;The  girls  will  sing  the  first  stanza,  you  fathers  the  second-&quot;  'The  door  opened  and  two  more  fathers  came  in.  &quot;-and  all  will  sing  the  third.&quot;  With  help  from  the  piano  (which  they  would  not  have  downstairs  in  the  school  auditorium)  they  achieved  an  approximation  of  the  tune,  and  the  em-  phasis  sometimes  fell  in  the  right  place.  They  did  their  best,  but  the  nineteenth-  century  words  and  the  ninth-century  plainsong  did  not  go  well  together.  Also,  one  of  the  fathers  had  a  good  strong  clear  voice,  which  only  made  the  others  more  self-conscious  and  apolo-  getic.  They  would  have  been  happier  without  him.  The  music  teacher  made  a  flip  re-  mark.  They  all  laughed  and  began  again.  Their  number  was  added  to  continually  as  the  door  opened  and  let  in  the  sounds  from  the  hall.  Soon  there  were  no  more  vacant  chairs;  the  late-  comersbad  to  stand.  The  snow  was  now  noticeably  heavier,  and  the  singing  had  more  volume.  Though  they  were  at  some  pains  to  convey,  by  their  re-  marks  to  one  another  and  their  easy  laughter,  that  this  was  not  an  occasion  to  be  taken  seriously,  nevertheless  the  fact  that  they  were  here  was  proof  of  the  contrary:  they  all  had  offices  where  they  should  have  been  and  salaries  they  were  not  at  this  moment  doing  any-  thing  to  earn.  Twenty-seven  men  with,  at  first  glance,  a  look  of  sameness  about  them,  a  round,  composite,  youngish,  unrevealing,  New  York  face.  Under  closer  inspection,  this  broke  down.  Not  all  the  eyes  were  blue,  nor  were  the  fathers  all  in  their  middle  and  late  thirties.  The  thin-faced  man  at  the  end  of  the  second  row  could  not  have  been  a  broker  or  a  lawyer  or  in  advertising.  The  man  next  to  him  had  survived  in-  carceration  in  a  Nazi  prison  camp.  There  was  one  Negro.  Here  and  there  a  head  that  was  not  thickly  covered  with  hair.  Their  speaking  voices  varied,  but  not  so  much  as  they  conceivably  might  have-no  [REDACTED]  drawl,  for  in-  stance.  And  all  the  fingernails  were  clean,  all  the  shoes  were  shined,  all  the  linen  was  fresh.  Each  time  they  went  over  the  hymn  it  was  better.  They  clearly  needed  more  rehearsing,  but  the  music  teacher  glanced  nervously  at  the  clock  and  said,  &quot;And  now  'In  Dulci  Jubilo.&quot;  &quot;  Those  who  had  forgotten  their  Latin,  or  never  had  any,  eavesdropped  on  those  who  knew  how  the  words  should  be  pronounced.  The  tune  was  powerful  and  swept  everything  before  " b"it,  and  in  a  flush  of  pleasure  they  fin-  ished  together,  on  the  beat,  loudly,  making  the  room  echo.  They  had  for-  gotten  about  the  telephone  messages  piling  up  on  their  desks  beside  the  un-  opened  mail.  'They  were  enjoying  themselves.  They  could  have  gone  on  singing  for  another  hour.  Instead,  they  had  to  get  up  and  file  out  of  the  room  and  crowd  into  the  elevators.  In  spite  of  new  costumes,  new  scenery,  different  music,  and-natural-  ly-a  different  cast,  the  Christmas  play  was  always  the  same.  Mary  and  Joseph  proceeded  to  Bethlehem,  where  the  inns  were  full,  and  found  shelter  in  the  merest  suggestion  of  a  stable.  An  immature  angel  announced  to  veryun-  likely  shepherds  the  appearance  of  the  Star.  Wise  Men  came  and  knelt  before  the  plastic  Babe  in  Mary's  arms.  And  then  the  finale:  the  Threes  singing  and  dancing  with  heavenly  joy.  &quot;How  did  it  sound?&quot;  George  asked,  in  the  crowd  on  the  stairs.  &quot;Fine,&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;Really?  It  didn't  seem  to  me-  maybe  because  we  were  under  the  bal-  cony-it  didn't  seem  as  if  we  were  making  any  sound  at  all.&quot;  &quot;No,  it  was  plenty  loud  enough.  What  was  so  nice  was  the  two  kinds  of  voices.&quot;  &quot;High  and  low,  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;The  fathers  sounded  like  bears.  Adorable.&quot;  N  theory,  since  it  was  the  middle  of  the  night,  it  was  dark,  but  not  the  total  suffocating  darkness  of  a  cloudy  night  in  the  country.  The  city,  as  usual,  gave  off  light-enough  so  that  you  could  see  the  island  in  the  middle  of  the  river,  and  the  three  bridges,  and  the  outlines  of  the  little  houses  on  East  End  Avenue  and  the  big  apartment buildings  on  Eighty-sixth  Street,  and  the  trees  and  shrubs  and  lampposts  and  comfort  station  in  the  park.  Also  a  woman  standing  by  the  railing  of  the  river  walk.  There  was  no  wind.  The  river  was  flowing  north  and  the  air  smelled  of  snow,  which  melted  the  moment  it  touched  any  solid  object,  and  became  the  shine  on  iron  balustrades  and  on  the  bark  of  trees.  The  woman  had  been  standing  there  a  long  time,  looking  out  over  the  water,  when  she  began  awkwardly  to  pull  her-  self  up  and  over  the  curved  iron  spikes  that  were  designed,  by  their  size  and  shape,  to  prevent  people  from  throw-  ing  themselves  into  the  river.  In  this  in-  stance  they  were  not  enough.  But  it  took  some  doing.  There  was  a  long  tear  in  the  woman's  coat  and  she  was  gasping  for  breath  as  she  let  herself  go  backward  into  space.  HE  sun  enters  Aquarius  January  20th  and  remains  until  February  18th.  &quot;An  extremely  good  friend  can  today  put  into  motion  some  operation  thatwill  be  most  helpful  to  your  best  interest,  or  else  introduce  you  to  some  influential  person.  Go  out  socially  in  the  evening  on  a  grand  scale.  Be  charming.&quot;  THE  cocktail  party  was  in  a  pent-  house.  The  elevator  opened  di-  rectly  into  the  foyer  ofthe  apartment.  And  the  woman  he  was  talking  to-or  rather,  who  was  talking  to  him-was  dressed  all  in  shades  of  brown.  &quot;I  triedto  get  you  last  summer,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  your  wife  said  you  were  busy  that  day.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'll  try  you  again.&quot;  &quot;Please  do,&quot;  somebody  said  for  him,     using  his  mouth  and  tongue  and  vocal  cords-because  it  was  the  last  thing  in  the  world  he  wanted,  to  drive  half-  way  across  Long  Island  to  a  lunch  par-  ty.  &quot;We  hardly  ever  go  anywhere,&quot;  he  himself  said,  but  too  late,  after  the  damage  had  been  done.  His  mind  wandered  for  an  instant  as  he  took  in-not  the  room,  for  he  was  facing  the  wrong  way,  but  a  small  corner  of  it.  And  in  that  instant  he  lost  the  thread  ofthestoryshe  was  telling  him.  She  had  taken  her  shoe  off  in  a  movie  theatre  and  put  her  purse  down  beside  it,  and  the  next  thing  he  knew  they  refused  to  do  anything,  even  after  she  had  explained  what  happened  and  that  she  must  get  in.  Who  &quot;they&quot;  were,  getin  where,  he  patiently  waited  to  find  out,  while  politely  sharing  her  indignation.  &quot;But  imagine!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;They  said,  'How  valuable  was  the  ring?&quot;  &quot;  He  shook  his  head,  commiserating  with  her.  &quot;I  suppose  if  it  hadn't  been  worth  a  certain  amount,&quot;  she  went  on,  &quot;they  wouldn't  have  done  a  thing  about  it.&quot;  The  police,  surely,  he  thought.  Hav-  ing  thought  at  first  it  was  the  manager  ofthe  movie  theatre  she  was  talking  about.  &quot;And  while  they  were  jimmying  the  door  open,  people  were  walking  by,  and  nobody  showed  the  slightest  concern.  Or  interest.&quot;  So  it  wasn't  the  police.  But  who  was  it,  then?  He  never  found  out,  because  they  were  joined  by  another  woman,  who  smiled  at  him  in  such  a  way  as  to  suggest  that  they  knew  each  other.  But  though  he  searched  his  mind  and  her  face-the  plucked  eyebrows,  the  re-  served  expression  in  the  middle-aged  eyes-and  considered  her  tweed  suit  " b"and  her  diamond  pin  and  her  square  figure,  he  could  not  imagine  who  she  was.  Suppose  somebody-suppose  Iris  came  up  and  he  had  to  introduce  her?  The  purse  was  recovered,  with  the  valuable  ring  still  in  it,  and  he  found  himself  talking  about  something  that  had  occupied  his  thoughts  lately.  And  in  his  effort  to  say  what  he  meant,  he  failed  to  notice  what  happened  to  the  first  woman.  Suddenly  she  was  not  there.  Somebody  must  have  carried  her  off,  right  in  front  of  his  unseeing  eyes.  &quot;*..  .  but  it  isn't  really  distinguishable  from  what  goes  on  in  dreams,&quot;  he  said  to  the  woman  who  seemed  to  know  him  and  to  assume  that  he  knew  her.  &quot;People  you  have  known  for  twenty  or  thirty  years,  you  suddenly  dis-  cover  you  didn't  really  know  how  they  felt  about  you,  and  in  fact  you  don't  know  how  anybody  feels  about  anything-only  what  they  say  they  feel.  And  suppose  that  isn't  true  at  all?  You  decide  that  it  is  better  to  act  as  if  it  is  true.  And  so  does  everybody  else.  But  itis  a  kind  of  myth  you  are  living  in,  wide  awake,  with  your  eyes  open,  in  broad  day-  light.&quot;  He  realized  that  the  conversation  had  become  not  only  personal  but  in-  timate.  But  it  was  too  late  to  back  out  now.  To  his  surprise  she  seemed  to  under-  stand,  to  have  felt  what  he  had  felt.  &quot;And  one  chooses,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;between  this  myth  and  that.&quot;  &quot;Exactly!  If  you  live  in  the  city  and  are  bringing  up  children,  you  decide  that  this  thing  is  not  safe-and  so  you  don't  let  them  do  it-and  that  thing  #s  safe.  When,  actually,  neither  one  is  safe  and  everything  is  equally  danger-  ous.  But  for  the  sake  of  convenience-&quot;  &quot;And  also  so  that  you  won't  go  out  of  your  mind,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  so  you  won't  go  out  of  your  mind,&quot;  he  agreed.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said  after  a  moment,  &quot;that  makes  two  of  us  who  are  thinking  about  it.&quot;  &quot;In  one  way  or  another,  people  live  by  myths,&quot;  she  said.  He  racked  his  brain  for  something  further  to  say  on  this  or  any  other  subject.  Glancing  around  at  the  windows,  which  went  from  floor  to  ceiling,  the  woman  in  the  tweed  suit  said,  ''These  vistas  you  have  here.&quot;  He  then  looked  and  saw  black  night,  with  lighted  buildings  far  below  and  many  blocks  away.  &quot;From  our  living  room,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  can  see  all  the  way  to  the  [REDACTED]  Pole.&quot;     &quot;We  live  close  to  the  ground,&quot;  she  said,  But  where?  [REDACTED]?  Princeton?  [REDACTED]?  &quot;In  the  human  scale,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Like  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  Once,  on  a  beauti-  ful  spring  day,  four  of  us-we'd  been  having  lunch  with  a  visiting  English-  man  who  was  interested  in  architec-  ture-went  searching  for  the  sky,  Up  one  street  and  down  the  next.&quot;  She  smiled.  &quot;We  had  to  look  for  it,  the  sky  is  so  far  away  in  New  York.&quot;  They  stood  nursing  their  drinks,  and  a  woman  came  up  to  them  who  seemed  to  know  her  intimately,  and  the  two  women  started  talking  and  he  turned  away.  N  her  way  into  the  school  building,  Laurie  joined  the  flood  from  the  school  bus,  and  cried,  &quot;Hi,  Janet  ...  Hi,  Connie  ...  Hi,  Elizabeth  ...&quot;  and  seemed  to  be  enveloped  byher  school-  mates,  until  suddenly,  each  girl  having  turned  to  some  other  girl,  Laurie  is  left  standing  alone,  her  expression  un-  changed,  still  welcoming,  but  nobody  having  responded.  If  you  collect  reasons,  this  is  the  reason  she  behaved  so  badly  at  lunch,  was  impertinent  to  her  mother,  and  hit  her  little  sister.  E  woke  with  a  mild  pain  in  his  stomach.  It  was  high  up,  like  an  ulcer  pain,  and  he  lay  there  worrying  about  it.  When  he  heard  the  sound  of  shattered  glass,  his  half-awake,  over-  sensible  mind  supplied  both  the  expla-  nation  and  the  details:  two  men,  put-  ting  a  large  framed  picture  into  the  trunk  compartment  of  a  parked  car,  had  dropped  it,  breaking  the  glass.  Too  bad  ...  And  with  that  thought  he  drifted  gently  off  to  sleep.  In  the  morning  he  looked  out  of  the  bedroom  window  and  saw  three  squad  cars  in  front  of  the  drugstore.  The  window  ofthe  drugstore  had  a  big  star-shaped  hole  in  it,  and  sev-  eral  policemen  were  standing  around  looking  at  the  broken  glass  on  the  side-  walk.  HE  sneeze  was  perfectly  audible  through  two  closed  doors.  He  turned  to  Iris  with  a  look  of  inquiry.  &quot;Who  sneezed?  Was  that  you,  Laurie?&quot;  she  called.  &quot;That  was  Cindy,&quot;  Laurie  said.  In  principle,  Iris  would  have  liked  to  bring  them  up  in  a  Spartan  fash-  ion,  but  both  children  caught  cold  eas-  ily  and  their  colds  were  prolonged,  and  recurring,  and  overlapping,  and  JULY  1,  1974  endless,  Whether  they  shouldor  shouldn't  be  kept  home  from  school  took  on  the  unsolvability  of  a  moral  dilemma-which  George's  worrying  disposition  did  nothing  to  alleviate.  The  sound  of  a  child  coughing  deep  in  the  chest  in  the  middle  of  the  night  would  make  him  leap  up  out  of  a  sound  sleep.  She  blamed  herself  when  the  chil-  dren  came  down  with  a  cold,  and  she  blamed  them.  Possibly,  also,  the  school  was  to  blame,  since  the  children  played  on  the  roof,  twelve  stories  above  the  street,  and  up  therethe  winds  were  often  much  rawer,  and  teachers  can-  not,  of  course,  spend  all  their  time  going  around  buttoning  up  the  coats  of  little  girls  who  have  got  too  hot  from  running.  She  went  and  stood  in  the  doorway  of  Cindy's  room,  &quot;No  sneezing,&quot;  she  said. &quot;Cindy,  if  you  are  catching  another  cold,  I'm  going  to  shoot  myself,&quot;  Iris  said,  and  gave  her  two  baby-aspirin  tablets  to  chew,  and  some  Vitamin  C  drops,  and  put  an  extra  blanket  on  her  bed,  and  didn't  open  the  window,  and  in  the  morning  Cindy's  nose  was  run-  ning.  &quot;Shall  I  keep  her  home  from  school?&quot;  Iris  asked,  at  the  breakfast  table.  Instead  of  answering,  George  got  up  and  looked  at  the  weather  thermometer  outside  the  west  window  of  their  bed-  room.  &quot;Twenty-seven,&quot;  he  said,  when  he  came  back.  But  he  still  didn't  an-  swer  her  question.  He  was  afraid  to  answer  it,  lest  it  bethe  wrong  answer,  and  she  blame  him.  Actually,  there  was  no  answer  that  was  the  right  answer:  They  had  tried  sending  Cindy  to  school  and  they  had  tried  not  sending  her.  This  time,  Iris  kept  her  home  from  school-not  because  she  thought  it  was  going  to  make  any  difference  but  so  the  pediatrician,  Dr.  de  Santillo,  wouldn't  blame  her.  Not  that  he  ever  said  anything.  And  Cindy  got  to  play  with  Laurie's  things  all  morning.  She  played  with  Laurie's  paper  dolls  until  she  was  tired,  and  left  them  all  over  the  floor,  and  then  she  colored  in  Lau-  rie's  coloring  book,  and  Puppy  chewed  up  one  of  the  crayons  but  not  one  of  Laurie's  favorites-not  the  pink  or  the  blue-and  then  Cindy  rearranged  the  furniture  in  Laurie's  doll  house  so  it  was  much  nicer,  and  then  she  lined  up  all  Laurie's  dolls  in  a  row  on  her  bed  and  played  school.  And  when  it  was  time  for  Laurie  to  come  home  from  school  she  went  out  to  the  kitchen  and  played  with  the  eggbeater.  Laurie  " b"came  in,  letting  the  front  doorslam  be-  hind  her,  and  dropped  her  mittens  in  the  hall  and  her  coat  on  the  living-room  rug  and  her  knitted  cap  on  top  of  her  coat,  and  started  for  her  room,  and  it  sounded  as  if  she  had  hurt  herself.  Iris  came  running.  What  a  noise  Laurie  made.  And  stamping  her  foot,  Cindy  noted  disapprovingly.  And  tears.  &quot;Stop  screaming  and  tell  me  what's  the  matter!&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;Cindy,  I  hate  you!&quot;  Laurie  said.  &quot;I  hate  you,  I  hate  you!&quot;  Horrible  old  Laurie  .  ..  But  in  the  morning  when  they  first  woke  up  it  was  different,  She  heard  Laurie  in  the  bathroom,  and  then  she  heard  Laurie  go  back  to  her  room.  Lying  in  bed,  Cindy  couldn't  suck  her  thumb  because  she  couldn't  breathe  through  her  nose,  so  she  got  up  and  went  into  Laurie's  room  (entirely  for-  getting  that  her  mother  had  said  that  in  the  morning  she  was  to  stay  out  of  Laurie's  room  because  she  had  a  cold)  and  got  in  Laurie's  bed  and  said,  &quot;Read,  read.&quot;  Laurie  read  her  the  story  of  &quot;The  Tinder  Box,&quot;  which  has  three  dogs  in  itt-a  dog  with  eyes  as  big  as  saucers,  and  a  dog  with  eyes  as  big  as  millwheels,  and  a  third  dog  with  eyes  as  big  as  the  Round  Tower  of  Copenhagen.  AP,  tap,  tap  on  the  bedroom  door  brought  him  entirely  awake.  &quot;What's  Laurie  been  reading  to  her?&quot;  he  asked,  turning  over  in  bed.  That  meant  it  was  Iris's  turn  to  get  up.  While  she  was  pulling  herself  togeth-  er,  they  heard  tap,  tap,  tap  again.  The  bed  heaved.  &quot;What's  Laurie  been  reading  to  you?&quot;  she  asked  as  she  and  Cindy  went  off  down  the  hall  together.  When  she  came  back  into  the  bedroom,  the  light  was  on  and  he  was  standing  in  front  of  his  dresser,  with  the  top  drawer  open,  searching  for  Gelusil  tablets.  &quot;Trouble?&quot;  she  said.  TANDING  in  the  doorway  of  Cin-  dy's  room,  in  her  blue  dressing  gown,  with  her  hairbrush  in  her  hand,  Iris  said,  &quot;Who  sneezed?  Was  that  you,  Cindy?&quot;  &quot;That  was  Laurie,&quot;  Cindy  said.  So  after  that  Laurie  got  to  stay  home  from  school  too.  \xe2\x80\x9cI  SAW  Phyllis  Simpson  in  Gristede's  supermarket,&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;Their  cook  committed  suicide.&quot;  &quot; HOW?&quot;   &quot;She  threw  herself  in  the  river.&quot;  &quot;NO!&quot;  &quot;'They  think  she  must  have  done  it  sometime  during  the  night,  but  they  don't  know  exactly  when.  They  just  came  down  to  breakfast  and  she  wasn't  there.  They're  still  upset  about  it.&quot;  &quot;When  did  it  happen?&quot;  &quot;About  a  month  ago.  Her  body  was  found  way  down  the  river.&quot;  &quot;What  a  pity.  She  was  a  nice  wom-  are',  You  remember  her?&quot;  &quot;Certainly.  She  always  waved  to  the  children  when  I  used  to  walk  them  to  school.  She  waved  to  me  too,  some-  times.  From  the  kitchen  window.  What  made  her  do  such  a  thing?&quot;  &quot;'They  have  no  idea.&quot;  &quot;She  was  a  big  woman,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  must  havebeen  hard  for  her  to  pull  herself  up  over  that  railing.  It's  quite  high.  No  note  or  anything?&quot;  &quot; No.&quot;   &quot; Terrible.&quot;  N  St.  Valentine's  Day,  the  young  woman  who  lived  on  tea  and  cigarettes  and  was  given  to  burning  herself  on  the  gas  stove  eloped  to  Cali- fornia  with  her  mother,  and  now  there  was  no  one  in  the  kitchen.  From  time  to  time,  the  employment  agency  went  through  the  formality  of  sending  some-  one  for  Iris  to  interview-though  actu-  ally  it  was  the  other  way  round.  And  either  the  apartment  was  too  large  or  they  didn't  care  to  work  for  a  family  with  children  or  they  were  not  accus-  tomed  to  doing  the  cooking  as  well  as  the  other  housework.  Sometimes  they  didn't  give  any  reason  at  all.  A  young  woman  from  [REDACTED],  who  didn't  speak  English,  was  willing  to  give  the  job  a  try.  It  turned  out  that  she  had  never  seen  a  carpet  sweeper  before,  and  she  asked  for  her  money  at  the  end  of  the  day.  ALKING  the  dog  at  seven-fif-  teen  on  a  winter  morning,  he  suddenly  stopped  and  said  to  himself,  &quot;Oh  God,  somebody's  been  mur-  dered!&quot;  On  the  high  stone  stoop  of  one  of  the  little  houses  on  East  End  Avenue  facing  the  park.  Somebody  in  a  long  red  coat.  By  the  curve  of  the  hip  he  could  tell  it  was  a  woman,  and  with  his  heart  racing  he  considered  what  he  ought  to  do.  From  where  he  stood  on  the  sidewalkhe  couldn't  see  the  upper  part  of  her  body.  One  foot-  the  bare  heel  and  the  strap  of  her  shoe-was  sticking  out  from  under  the  hem  of  the  coat.  If  she'd  been  mur-  dered,  wouldn't  she  be  sprawled  out  in  an  awkward  position  insteadof  curled  up  and  lying  on  her  side  as  though  she  was  in  bed  asleep?  He  looked  up  at  the  house.  Had  they  locked  her  out?  After  a  scene?  Or  she  could  have  come  home  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  night  and  discovered  that  she'd  forgotten  to  take  her  key.  But  in  that  case  she'd  have  spent  the  night  in  a  hotel  or  with  a  friend.  Or  called  an  all-night  locksmith.  He  went  up  three  steps  without  manag-  ing  to  see  any  more  than  he  had  already.  The  parapet  offered  some  shelter  from  the  wind,  but  even  so,  how  could  she  sleep  on  the  cold  stone,  with  noth-  ing  over  her?  &quot;Can  I  help  you?&quot;  His  voice  sounded  strange  and  hollow.  There  was  no  answer.  The  red  coat  did  not  " b" stir.  Then  he  saw  the  canvas  bag  crammed  with  the  fruit  of  her  night's  scavenging,  and  backed  down  the  steps.  OW  it  was  his  turn.  The  sore  throat  was  gone  in  the  morning,  but  it  came  backduring  the  day,  and  when  he  sat  down  to  dinner  he  pulled  the  extension  out  at  his  end  and  moved  his  mat,  silver,  and  glass  farther  away  from  the  rest  of  them.  &quot;If  you  aren't  sneezing,  I  don't  think  you  need  to  be  in  Isolation  Cor-  ner,&quot;  Iris  said,  but  be  stayed  there  any-  way.  His  colds  were  prolonged  and  made  worse  by  his  efforts  to  treat  them;  made  worse  still  by  his  trying  occasionally  to  disregard  them,  as  he  saw  other  people  doing.  In  the  end  he  went  through  box  after  box  of  Kleenex,  his  nose  white  with  Noxzema,  his  eye-  lids  inflamed,  like  a  man  in  a  subway  poster  advertising  a  cold  remedy  that,  as  it  turned  out,  did  not  work  for  him.  And  finally  hetook  to  his  bed,  with  a  transistor  radio  for  amusement  and  company.  In  his  childhood,  being  sick  resulted  in  agreeable  pampering,  and  now  that  he  was  grown  he  preferred  to  be  both  parties  to  this  pleasure.  No  one  could  make  him  as  comfortable  as  he  could  make  himself,  and  Iris  had  all  but  given  up  trying.  N  a  rainy  Sunday  afternoon  in  March,  with  every  door  in  the  school  building  locked  and  the  corri-  dors  braced  forthe  shock  of  Monday  morning,  the  ancient  piano  demon-  strated  for  the  benefit  of  the  empty  practice  room  that  it  is  one  thing  to  fumble  through  the  vocal  line,  guided  by  the  chords  that  accompany  it,  and  something  else  again  to  be  genuinely  musical,  to  know  what  the  composer  intended-the  resolution  of  what  can-  not  be  left  uncertain,  the  amorous  flir-  tation  of  the  treble  and  the  bass,  notes  taking  to  the  air  like  a  flock  of  startled  birds.  HE  faint  clicking  sounds  given  off  by  the  telephone  in  the  pantry  meant  that  Iris  was  dialling  on  the  ex-  tension  in  the  master  bedroom.  And  at  last  there  was  somebody  in  the  Car-  ringtons'  kitchen  again-a  black  wom-  an  in  her  fifties.  They  were  low  on  milk,  and  totally  out  of  oatmeal,  canned  dog  food,  and  coffee,  but  the  memo  pad  that  was  magnetically  at-  tached  to  the  side  ofthe  Frigidaire  was  blank.  Writing  down  things  they  were  out  of  was  not  something  she  consid-  ered  partof  her  job.  When  an  emer-  gency  arose,  she  put  on  her  coat  and  went  to  the  store,  just  as  if  she  were  still  in  [REDACTED].  The  sheet  of  paper  that  was  at-  tached  to  the  clipboard  hanging  from  anail  on  the  side  of  the  kitchen  cup-  board  had  the  menus  for  lunch  and  dinner  all  written  out,  but  they  were  for  yesterday's  lunch  and  dinner.  And  though  it  was  only  nine-thirty,  [REDACTED]  already  felt  a  mounting  indignation  at  being  kept  in  ignorance  about  what  most  deeply  concerned  her.  It  was  an  old-fashioned  apartment,  with  big  rooms  and  high  ceilings,  and  the  kitch-  en  was  a  considerable  distance  from  the  master  bedroom;  nevertheless,  it  was  just  barely  possible  for  the  two  women  to  live  there.  Nature  had  de-  signed  them  for  mutual  tormenting,  the  one  with  an  exaggerated  sense  of  time,  always  hurrying  to  meet  a  dead-  line  that  did  not  exist  anywhere  but  in  her  own  fancy,  and  calling  upon  the  angelsor  whoever  is  in  charge  of  amazing  grace  to  take  notice  that  she  had  put  the  food  on  the  hot  tray  in  the  dining  room  at  precisely  one  minute  before  the  moment  she  had  been  told  to  have  dinner  ready;  the  other  with  not  only  a  hatred  of  planning  meals  but  also  a  childish  reluctance  to  come  to  the  table.  When  the  minute  hand  of  the  electric  clock  in  the  kitchen  arrived  at  seven  or  seven-fifteen  or  whatever,  [REDACTED]  went  into  the  dining  room  and  announced  in  an  inaudible  voice  that  dinner  was  ready.  Two  rooms  away,  George  heard  her  by  extrasensory  per-  ception  and  leapt  to  his  feet,  and  Iris,  holding  outher  glass  to  him,  said,  &quot;Am  I  not  going  to  have  a  second  ver-  mouth?&quot;  To  his  amazement,  on  [REDACTED]'s  day  off,  having  cooked  dinner  and  put  it  on  the  hot  plate,  Iris  drifted  away  to  the  front  ofthe  apartment  and  read  a  magazine,  fixed  her  hair,  God  knows  what,  until  he  discovered  the  food  sit-  ting  there  and  begged  her  to  come  to  the  table.  6C  HEY  said  they  lived  in  Boys  Town,  and  I  thought  Jimmy  let  them  in  because  he's  Irish  and  Catho-  lic,&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;'There  was  nothing  on  the  list  I  wanted,  so  I  subscribed  to  Vogue,  to  help  them  out.  When  I  spoke  to  Jimmy  about  it,  he  said  he  hadno  idea  they  were  selling  subscrip-  tions,  and  he  never  lets  solicitors  get  by  him-not  even  nuns  and  priests.  Much  as  he  might  want  to.  So  I  don't  sup-  pose  it  will  come.&quot;  &quot;It  might,&quot;  George  said.  &quot;Maybe  they  were  honest.&quot;  &quot;He  thought  they  were  workmen  because  they  asked  for  the  eleventh  floor.  'The  tenants  on  the  eleventh  floor  have  moved  out  and  Jimmy  says  the  people  who  are  moving  in  have  a  five  years'  lease  and  are  spending  fifty  thousand  dollars  on  the  place,  which  they  don't  even  own.  But  anyway,  what  they  did  was  walk  through  the  apartment  and  then  down  one  floor  and  start  ringing  doorbells,  The  super  took  them  down  in  the  back  elevator  " b"without  asking  what  they  were  doing  there,  and  off  they  went.  They  tried  the  same  thing  at  No.  7  and  the  door-  man  threw  them  out.&quot;  ALKING  the  dog  before  break-  fast,  if  he  went  by  the  river  walk  he  saw  in  the  Simpsons'  window  a  black-haired  woman  who  did  not  wave  to  him  or  even  look  up  when  he  passed.  That  particular  section  of  the  river  walk  was  haunted  by  an  act  of  despair  that  nobody  had  been  given  a  chance  to  understand.  Nothing  that  he  could  think  of-cancer,  thwarted  love,  mel-  ancholia-seemed  to  fit.  He  had  only  spoken  to  her  once,  when  he  and  Iris  went  to  a  dinner  party  at  the  Simp-  sons'  and  she  smiled  at  him  as  she  was  helping  the  maid  clear  the  table  be-  tween  courses.  If  she  didn't  look  up  when  he  passed  under  her  window  it  was  as  though  he  had  been  over-  taken  by  a  cloud  shadow-until  he  forgot  all  about  it,  a  few  seconds  later.  But  he  could  have  stopped  just  once,  and  he  hadn't.  When  the  window  was  open  he  could  have  called  out  to  her,  even  if  it  was  only  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  or  &quot;Isn't  it  a  beautiful  day?&quot;  He  could  have  said,  Don't  do  it.  ...  Sometimes  he  came  back  by  the  little  house  on  East  End  Avenue  where  he  had  seen  the  woman  in  the  red  coat.  He  invariably  glanced  up,  half  ex-  pecting  her  to  be  lying  there  on  the  stoop.  If  she  wasn't  there,  where  was  she?  In  the  psychiatric  ward  of  Bellevue  Hospital  was  the  answer.  But  not  fot  long.  She  and  the  doctor  got  it  straight-  ened  out  about  her  mother's  gold  thimble,  and  he  gave  her  a  prescrip-  tion  and  told  her  where  to  go  in  the  building  to  have  it  filled,  and  hoped  for  the  best-which,  after  all,  is  all  that  anybody  has  to  hope  for.  HE  weather  thermometer  blew  away  one  stormy  night  and  after  a  week  or  two  George  brought  home  a  new  one.  It  was  round  and  encased  in  white  plastic,  and  not  meant  to  be  screwed  to  the  window  frame  but  to  be  kept  inside.  It  registered  the  tempera-  ture  outside  by  means  ofa  wire  with  what  looked  like  a  small  bullet  attached  to  the  end  of  it.  The  directions  said  to  drill  a  hole  through  the  window  frame,  but  George  backed  away  from  all  that  and,  instead,  hung  the  wire  across  the  sill  and  closed  the  window  on  it.  What  the  new  thermometer  said  bore  no  re-  lation  to  the  actual  temperature,  and  drilling  the  hole  had  a  high  priority  on  the  list  of  things  he  meant  to  do.  There  was  also  a  racial  barometer     " b"in  the  apartment  that  registered  Fair  or  Stormy,  according  to  whether  [REDACTED]  had  spent  several  days  running  in  the  apartment  or  had  just  come  back  from  a  weekend  in  her  room  in  [REDACTED].  The  laundress,  so  enormously  fat  that  she  had  to  maneuver  her  body  around,  as  if  she  were  the  captain  of  an  ocean  liner,  was  a  Muslim  and  hated  all  white  people  and  most  black  people  as  well.  She  was  never  satisfied  with  the  lunch  [REDACTED]  cooked  for  her,  and  [REDACTED]  objected  to  having  to  get  lunch  for  her,  and  the  problem  was  solved  temporarily  by  having  her  eat  in  the  luncheonette  across  the  street.  She  quit.  The  new  laundress  was  half  the  size  of  the  old  one,  and  sang  alto  in  her  church  choir,  and  was  good-  tempered,  and  fussy  about  what  she  had  for  lunch.  [REDACTED]  sometimes  con-  sidered  her  a  friend  and  sometimes  an  object  of  derision,  because  she  believed  in  spirits.  So  did  [REDACTED],  but  not  to  the  same  extent  or  in  the  same  way.  [REDACTED]'s  mother  had  appeared  to  her  and  her  sister  and  brother,  shortly  after  her  death.  They  were  quarrelling  togeth-  er,  and  her  mother's  head  and  shoul-  ders  appeared  up  near  the  ceiling,  and  she  said  they  were  to  love  one  another.  And  sometimes  when  [REDACTED]  was  walk-  ing  along  the  street  she  felt  a  coolness  and  knew  thata  spirit  was  beside  her.  But  the  laundress  said,  &quot;All  right,  go  ahead,  then,  if  you  want  to,&quot;  to  the  empty  air  and,  since  there  wasn't  room  for  both  of  them,  let  the  spirit  precede  her  through  the  pantry.  She  even  knew  who  the  spirit  was  T  was  now  spring  on  the  river,  and  the  river  walk  was  a  Chinese  scroll  which  could  be  unrolled,  by  peo-  ple  who  like  to  do  things  in  the  usual  way,  from  right  to  left-starting  at  Gracie  Square  and  walking  north.  De-  picted  were:  A  hockey  game  between  Loyola  and  St.  Francis  de  Sales  Five  boys  shooting  baskets  on  the  basketball  court  A  seagull  An  old  man  sitting  on  a  bench  doing  columns  of  figures  A  child  drawing  a  track  for  his  toy  trains  on  the  pavement  with  a  piece  of  chalk  A  paper  drinking  cup  floating  on  the  troubled  surface  of  the  water  A  child  in  pink  rompers  pushing  his  own  stroller  A  woman  sitting  on  a  bench  alone,  with  her  face  lifted  to  the  sun  A  Puerto  Rican  boy  with  a  transistor  radio  " b"Two  middle-aged  women  speaking  German  A  bored  and  fretful  baby,  too  hot  in  his  perambulator,  with  nothing  to  look  at  or  play  with,  while  his  nurse  reads  The  tugboat  [REDACTED]  pulling  a  long  string  of  empty  barges  upstream  A  little  girl  feeding  her  mother  an  apple  A  helicopter  A  kindergarten  class,  in  two  sections  Clouds  in  a  blue  sky  A  flowering  cherry  tree  Seven  freight  cars  moving  imper-  ceptibly,  against  the  tidal  current,  in  the  wake  of  the  Herbert  E.  Smith  A  man  with  a  pipe  in  his  mouth  and  a  can  of  Prince  Albert  smoking  to-  bacco  on  the  bench  beside  him  A  man  sorting  his  possessions  into  two  canvas  bags,  one  of  which  contains  a  concertina  Six  very  small  children  playing  in  the  sandpile,  under  the  watchful  eyes  of  their  mothers  or  nursemaids  An  oil  tanker  A  red-haired  priest  reading  a  pocket-  size  New  Testament  A  man  scattering  bread  crumbs  for  the  pigeons  The  Coast  Guard  cutter  CG  40435  turning  around  just  north  of  the  light-  house  and  heading  back  towards  Hell  Gate  Bridge  A  sweeper  with  his  bag  and  a  fer-  ruled  stick  A  little  boy  pointing  a  red  plastic  pistol  at  his  father's  head  A  pleasure  yacht  An  airplane  A  man  and  a  woman  speaking  French  A  child  on  a  tricycle  A  boy  on  roller  skates  A  reception  under  a  striped  tent  on  the  lawn  of  the  mayor's  house  The  fireboat  station  The  Franklin  Delano  Roosevelt  Drive,  a  cinder  path,  a  warehouse,  sea-  gulls,  and  so  on  Who  said  Happiness  is  the  light  shin-  ing  on  the  water.  The  water  is  cold  and  dark  and  deep.  .  .  .  &quot;JTS  perfectly  insane,&quot;  George  said  when  he  met  Iris  coming  from  Gristede's  with  a  big  brown  paper  bag  heavy  as  lead  under  each  arm  and  re-  lieved  her  of  them.  &quot;Don't  we  still  have  that  cart?&quot;  &quot;Nobody  in  the  building  uses  them.&quot;  &quot;But  couldn't  you?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Iris  said.  &quot;ALL  children,&quot;  Cindy  said  wisely,  leaning  against  him,  with  her  head  in  the  hollow  of  his  neck,  &quot;all  children  think  their  mommy  and  dad-  dy  arethe  nicest.&quot;  &quot;And  what  about  you?  Are  you  satisfied?&quot;  She  gave  him  a  hug  and  a  kiss  and  said,  &quot;I  think  you  and  Mommy  are  the  nicest  mommy  and  daddy  in  the  whole  world.&quot;  &quot;And  I  think  you  are  the  nicest  Cindy,&quot;  he  said,  his  eyes  moist  with  tears.  They  sat  and  rocked  each  other  gently.  FTER  [REDACTED]  had  taken  the  break-  fast  dishes  out  of  the  dishwasher,  she  went  into  the  front,  dragging  the  vacuum  cleaner,  to  do  the  children's  rooms.  She  stood  sometimes  for  five  or  ten  minutes,  looking  down  at  East  End  Avenue-at  the  drugstore,  the  lunch-  eonette,  the  rival  cleaning  establish-  ments  (side  by  side  and,  according  to  rumor,  both  owned  by  the  same  per-  son),  the  hairstyling  salon,  and  the  branch  office  of  the  Chase  [REDACTED]  Bank.  Together  they  made  a  canvas  backdrop  for  a  procession  of  people  [REDACTED]  had  never  seen  before,  or  would  not  recognize  if  she  had,  and  so  she  couldn't  say  to  herself,  &quot;There  goes  old  Mrs.  Maltby,&quot;  but  she  looked  any-  way,  she  took  it  all  in.  The  sight  of  other  human  beings  nourished  her  mind.  She  read  them  as  people  read  books.  Pieces  of  toys,  pieces  of  puzzles  that  she  found  on  the  floor  she  put  on  one  shelf  or  another  of  the  toy  closet  in  Cindy's  room,  gradually  introduc-  ing  a  disorder  that  Iris  dealt  with  periodically,  taking  a  whole  day  out  of  her  life.  But  nobody  told  [REDACTED]  she  was  supposed  to  findthe  box  the  piece  came  out  of,  and  it  is  questionable  whether  she  could  have  anyway.  The  thickness  of  the  lenses  in  her  eyeglasses  suggested  that  her  eyesight  was  poorer  than  she  let  on.  She  was  an  exile,  far  from  home,  among  people  who  were  not  like  the  white  people  she  knew  and  under-  stood.  She  was  here  because  down  home  she  was  getting  forty  dollars  a  week  and  she  had  her  old  age  to  think  of.  She  and  Iris  alternated  between  irritation  at  one  another  and  sudden  acts  of  kindness.  It  was  the  situation  that  was  at  fault.  Given  halfway  de-  cent  circumstances,  men  can  work  cheerfully  and  happily  for  other  men,  in  offices,  stores,  and  even  factories.  And  so  can  women.  But  if  Iris  opened  the  cupboard  or  the  icebox  to  see  what  they  did  or  didn't  contain,  [REDACTED]  popped  out  of  her  room  and  said,  &quot;Did  you  want  something?&quot;  And  Iris  with-  drew,  angry  because  she  had  been  driv-  en  out  of  her  own  kitchen.  In  her  mind,  [REDACTED]  always  thought  of  the  Carringtons  as  &quot;my  people,&quot;  but  until  she  had  taught  them  to  think  of  them-  selves  as  her  people  her  profound  ca-  pacityfor  devotion  would  go  unused;  would  not  even  be  suspected.  You  can  say  that  life  is  a  fountain  if  you  want  to,  but  what  it  more  near-  ly  resembles  is  a  jack-in-the-box.  ALF  awake,  he  heard  the  soft  whimpering  that  meant  Iris  was  having  a  nightmare,  and  he  shook  her.  &quot;I  dreamt  you  were  having  a  heart  at-  tack,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Should  you  be  dreaming  that?&quot;&quot;  he  said.  But  the  dream  was  still  too  real  to  be  joked  about.  They  were  in  a  public  place.  And  he  couldn't  be  moved.  He  didn't  die,  and  she  consult-  ed  with  doctors.  Though  the  dream  did  not  progress,  she  could  not  extricate  herself  from  it  but  went  on  and  on,  feeling  the  appropriate  emotions  but  in  a  circular  way.  Till  finally  the  sounds  she  made  in  her  sleep  brought  about  her  deliverance.  HE  conversation  at  the  other  end  of  the  hall  continued  steadily-  not  loud  but  enough  to  keep  themfrom  sleeping,  and  he  had  already  spoken  to  the  children  once.  So  he  got  up  and  went  down  the  hall.  Laurie  and  Cindy  were  both  in  their  bathroom,  and  Cindy  was  sitting  on  the  toilet.  &quot;I  have  a  stomach  ache,&quot;  she  said.  He  started  to  say,  &quot;You  need  to  do  bizz,&quot;  and  then  remembered  that  the  time  before  she  had  been  sitting  on  the  toilet  doing  just  that.  &quot;And  I  feel  dizzy,&quot;  Laurie  said.  &quot;I  heard  it,&quot;  Iris  said  as  hegot  back  into  bed.  &quot;'That's  why  she  was  so  pale  yes-  terday.&quot;  And  half  an  hour  later,  when  he  got  up  again,  Iris  did  too.  To  his  sur-  prise.  Looking  as  if  she  had  lost  her  " b"last  friend.  So  he  took  her  in  his  arms.  &quot;I  hate  everything,&quot;  she  said.  N  the  top  shelf  of  his  clothes  closet  he  keeps  all  sorts  of  things-the  overflow  of  phonograph  records,  and  the  photograph  albums,  which  are  too  large  for  the  bookcases  in  the  living  room.  'The  snapshots  show  nothing  but  joy.  Year  after  year  of  it.  ON  the  stage  of  the  school  audito-  rium,  girls  from  Class  Eight,  in  pastel-colored  costumes  and  holding  arches  of  cr\xc3\xa9pe-paper  flowers,  made  a  tunnel  from  the  front  of  the  stage  to  the  rear  right-hand  corner,  The  pianist  took  her  hands  from  the  keys,  and  the  headmistress,  in  sensible  navy  blue,  with  her  hair  cut  short  like  a  man's,  announced,  &quot;Class  B  becomes  Class  One.&quot;  Twenty  very  little  girls  in  white  dresses  marched  upon  the  stage  two  by  two,  holding  hands.  George  and  Iris  Carrington  turned  to  each  other  and  smiled,  for  Cindy  was  among  them,  looking  proud  and  happy  as  she  hurried  through  the  tun-  nel  of  flowers  and  out  of  sight.  &quot;Class  One  becomes  Class  Two.&quot;  Another  wave  of  little  girls  left  their  place  in  the  audience  and  went  upon  the  stage  and  disappeared  into  the  wings.  &quot;Class  Two  becomes  Class  Three.&quot;  Laurie  Carrington,  her  red  hair  shining  from  the  hairbrush,  rose  from  her  seat  with  the  others  and  started  up  on  the  stage.  &quot;It's  too  much!&quot;  George  said,  un-  der  his  breath.  Class  Three  became  Class  Four,  Class  Four  became  Class  Five,  Class  Five  became  Class  Six,  and  George  Carrington  took  a  handkerchief  out  of  his  right  hip  pocket  and  wiped  his  eyes.  It  was  their  eagerness  that  undid  him.  Their  absolute  trust  in  the  Ar-  rangements.  Class  Six  became  Class  Seven,  Class  Seven  became  Class  Eight.  The  generations  of  man,  growing  up,  growing  old,  dying  in  order  to  make  room  for  more.  &quot;Class  Eight  becomes  Class  Nine,  and  is  now  in  the  Upper  School,&quot;  the  headmistress  said,  triumphantly.  The  two  girls  at  the  front  ducked  and  went  under  the  arches,  taking  their  cr\xc3\xa9pe-  paper  flowers  with  them.  And  then  the  next  two,  and  the  next,  and  finally  the  audience  was  left  applauding  an  empty  stage.  &quot;f  &quot;OME  here  and  sit  on  my  lap,&quot;  he  said,  by  no  means  sure  Laurie  would  think  it  worth  the  trouble.  But  she  came.  Folding  her  onto  his  lap,  he  was  aware  of  the  length  of  her  legs,  and  the  difference  of  her  body;  the  babyness  had  departed  forever,  and  when  he  was  affectionate  with  her  it  was  always  as  if  the  moment  were  slightly  out  of  focus;  he  felt  a  restraint.  He  worried  lest  it  be  too  close  to  mak-  ing  love  to  her.  The  difference  was  not  great,  and  he  was  not  sure  whether  it  existed  at  all.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  hear  a  riddle?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;All  right.&quot;  &quot;Who  was  the  fastest  runner  in  history?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  he  said,  smiling  at  her.  &quot;Who  was?&quot;  &quot;Adam.  He  was  the  first  in  the  hu-  man  race.  ..  .  Techechechechee,  wasn't  that  a  good  one?&quot;  AKING  in  the  night,  Cindy  heard  her  mother  and  father  laughing  behind  the  closed  door  of  their  room.  It  was  a  sound  she  liked  to  hear,  and  she  turned  over  and  went  right  back  to  sleep.  &amp;&amp;  HAT  was  that?&quot;  He  raised  his  head  from  the  pillow  and  listened.  &quot;Somebody  crying  'Help!  &quot;  said.  He  got  up  and  went  to  the  window.  There  was  no  one  in  the  street  except  a  taxi-driver  brushing  out  the  back  seat  of  his  hack.  Again  he  heard  it.  Somebody  being  robbed.  Or  raped.  Or  murdered.  &quot;Help  ...&quot;  Faintly  this  time.  And  not  from  the  direction  of  the  park.  The  taxi-driver  did  not  look  up  at  the  sound,  which  must  be  coming  from  inside  a  building  somewhere.  With  his  face  to  the  window,  George  waited  forthe  sound  to  come  again  and  it  didn't.  Nothing  but  silence.  If  he  called  the  police,  what  could  he  say?  He  got  back  into  bed  and  lay  there,  sick  with  horror,  his  knees  shaking.  In  the  morning  may-  be  the  Daily  News  would  have  what  happened.  But  he  forgot  to  buy  a  News  on  his  way  to  work,  and  days  passed,  and  he  no  longer  was  sure  what  night  it  was  that  they  heard  the  voice  crying  &quot;Help!&quot;  and  felt  that  he  ought  to  go  through  weeks  of  the  News  until  he  found  out  what  happened.  If  it  was  in  the  News.  And  if  something  happened.  "