 b"LEWS  stood  by  his  mother's  bed  in  the  l  hospital.  After  a  long  illness  her  body  had  shrunk  to  childlike  pro-  portions.  'The  special  earphones  he'd  bought  lay  beside  her  head.  He  picked  them  up,  coiled  the  wire,  and  placed  them  by  the  radio.  She  was  supposed  to  turn  up  the  music  as  her  pain  increased.  &quot;Lew?&quot;  &quot;Right  here.&quot;  &quot;Did  I  get  the  shot  yet?&quot;  &quot;About  an  hour  ago.&quot;  Her  stomach  convulsed  in  a  small  spasm.  &quot;I  lose  track  of  time,&quot;  she  whis-  pered.  HE  telephone  woke  him  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  Naked  in  bed,  he  was  told  she'd  fallen  into  a  coma.  He  hung  up  and  sat  in  the  dark  for  several  moments.  An  extraordinary  alertness  came  over  him.  Faint  sounds  from  the  city  streets  seemed  unusually  pure,  each  sound  separate  from  every  other-all  hanging  in  space  like  tan-  gible  objects.  He  got  up,  dressed,  drank  some  cof-  fee,  and  took  a  cab  to  the  hospital.  The  elevator  man,  who  usually  said  some-  thing,  was  silent.  She  lay  on  her  side.  He  pulled  a  chair  close  to  the  bed  and  took  her  limp,  ex-  tended  hand.  It  was  dry  and  warm.  &quot;I'm  here,&quot;  he  said,  leaning  for-  ward.  &quot;That's  my  hand  you  feel.&quot;  He  sat  very  still,  his  face  so  close  he  could  see  the  pores  of  her  skin.  He  knew  she  could  feel  nothing,  and  yet  he  answered  the  slightest  movement  of  her  hand  with  a  movement  of  his  own.  Patiently,  he  focussed  himself-trying  to  slip  part  of  himself  across  their  hands  and  into  her  body.  Suddenly  her  eyes  flicked  open.  He  was  impaled  on  their  gaze.  Her  curled  body  straightened  under  the  sheets  with  impossible  speed,  snapping  like  a  car-  penter's  rule.  Her  mouth  opened  in  a  round  O.  An  odd  droning  sound  emerged  from  her  throat,  gathered  force,  and  built  smoothly  to  a  scream.  Recoiling,  he  fell  over  backwards.  When  he  raised  himself  from  the  floor,  she  was  dead. After the initial operation, in which her breast had been re-moved, he'd rented a car to take her back to the country. She was ready to go when he arried at the hospital. &quot;I've been walking a bit every day.&quot; She went to the center of the room and raised her arm. &quot;Bye-bye, girls!&quot; The other women murmured from their beds. Two nurses entered with a wheelchair. Lewis  picked  up  his  moth-  er's  suitcase  and  the  radio.  She  moved  around  the  wheelchair.  &quot;I  don't  need  that.&quot;  The  nurses  fol-  lowed  her.  &quot;It's  the  rule,&quot;  said  the  older  nurse,  taking  her  arm  as  the  chair  was  wheeled  into  position.  &quot;Just  to  the  car,  then.&quot;  She  lowered  herself  carefully,  her  thin  body  electric  with  eagerness.  Lewis  moved  to  take  the  handles.  &quot;Give  me  that  stuff,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  can  take  it  on  my  lap.&quot;  He  rolled  her  through  the  corridors,  moving  slowly.  In  the  crowded  lobby  she  gave  him  her  Blue  Cross  card.  &quot;Wow,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  She  looked  around  the  room,  &quot;All  this.&quot;  She  pointed  through  the  glass  doors  to  the  street.  &quot;''That.&quot;  The  cashier  behind  the  grille  was  as  remote  and  efficient  as  a  bank  teller.  When  everything  was  done  Lewis  re-  mained  at  the  window,  looking  at  the  plastic  card,  and  the  receipt.  &quot;Something  wrong?&quot;  asked  the  cashier.  Lewis  stared.  Far  back  in  his  mind  elusive  thoughts  floated,  drifting  like  isolated  candles  appearing  and  disap-  pearing  in  remote  corners  of  a  cathe-  dral.  How  will  she  diet  When  will  she  die?  W  hat  should  I  do?  After  the  long  drive  to  her  cottage  in  the  country,  they  climbed  the  hill  to  the  front  door,  taking  it  slowly.  He  kept  his  arm  around  her  waist,  and  she  was  gay,  as  if  they  were  dancing.  He  prepared  a  simple  supper,  and  when  they'd  eaten,  and  the  dishes  were  done,  he  went  down  to  the  garage  to  look  at  her  car,.  The  wide  door  rum-  bled  up  into  the  shadows.  A  fine  film  of  dust  covered  the  white  auto-  w&quot;  mobile.  He  got  inside  the  car  g}  and  switched  on  the  interior  \xe2\x80\x99  light.  Dust  coated  every  sur-  face.  A  spider's  web  hung  in-  side  the  circle  of  the  steering  wheel.  He  started  the  engine,  raced  it  for  a  moment,  and  turned  it  off.  As  he  walked  back  to  the  house,  his  mother  turned  on  a  light  and  he  was  startled  by  the  sudden  appearance  of  her  face-an  old  woman's  face-float-  ing  over  a  lamp.  SHE  grew  weaker  through  the  win-  ter.  On  a  March  night,  just  be-  fore  dawn,  he  knew  it  was  time.  Lis-  tening  through  the  wall,  he  heard  her  slow,  laborious  shuffling  toward  the  bathroom.  He  called  out,  offering  help.  She  refused-impatiently,  angrily-  and  he  suddenly  realized  she'd  been  sneaking,  muting  her  gasps  of  pain  for  fear  he'd  discover  how  long  it  took  her  to  get  there.  He  resolved  instantly  to  get  her  to  a  hospital.  At  breakfast,  he  told  her.  Disap-  pointment  dimmed  her  eyes,  and  then  fear  brightened  them,.  He  spoke  calm-  ly,  attentive  to  every  nuance  of  her  reaction.  For  a  few  moments  she  strug-  gled  in  silence.  He  waited-saying  nothing-and  felt  the  precise  moment  of  her  acceptance  with  utter  clarity.  He  helped  her  get  dressed,  fetching  things  from  the  wardrobe  and  turning  his  back  when  it  was  necessary.  Sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  in  her  blue  suit,  she  held  a  pair  of  nylon  panties.  &quot;I  can't  bend,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  you  could  just  get  them  over  my  feet.&quot;  He  knelt,  hesitated,  and  then  care-  fully  slipped  the  panties  over  her  ankles.  \xc2\xabYou've  taken  plenty  off,  I'm  sure,&quot;  she  said,  a  distant  smile  on  her  face.  &quot;But  how  many  have  you  put  on  .  ..&quot;  Her  voice  trailed  off.  He  turned  away.  As  they  left  the  house  she  paused  in  the  doorway  to  look  back.  For  some  time  she  stood  quite  still,  as  if  she'd  forgotten  he  was  there.  He  was  about  to  touch  her  elbow  when  she  spoke-  not  to  him  but  to  the  cottage  itself.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,&quot;  she  said  fliply,  &quot;if  I  don't  see  you  again,  I  won't  see  you  again.&quot;  Walking  down  the  hill,  she  held  his  shoulder  and  concentrated  on  each  step.  She  spoke  once,  as,  halfway  to  the  ga-  rage,  they  stood  resting.  &quot;Did  you  bring  the  earphones?&quot;  A  slight  sheen  of  sweat  gleamed  on  her  brow.  HE  drove  toward  the  city  on  the  old  parkway-her  favorite  route-a  gently  winding  road  bordered  by  roll-  ing  swells  of  cropped  lawn  and  stands  of  old  trees.  He  discovered  himself  holding  the  steering  wheel  too  hard.  He'd  take  a  deep  breath  and  relax,  only  to  find  his  hands  clenched  minutes  later  &quot;\xc2\xa9You  think  I'll  get  out  this  time?&quot;  she  asked  suddenly.  &quot;Of  course.&quot;  He  lied  in  a  casual  tone.  He  seemed  almost  tranced  on  such  occasions-unable  to  do  wrong.  &quot;They  missed  something,  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;Lew.  One  thing.  No  more  radia-  tion.&quot;  He  glanced  over  despite  himself.  &quot;I  want  you  to  promise.&quot;  She  held  his  eye  for  a  moment,  and  then  turned  away.  &quot;I  couldn't  take  it  again.&quot;  Later,  he  looked  at  her.  She  was  asleep-head  nodding  to  the  move-  ment  of  the  car.  Nerves  twitched  in  her  eyelids.  He  drove  carefully,  maintaining  a  " b"steady  speed  until  a  sense  of  apprehen-  siveness  made  him  slow  down  and  check  the  instrument  panel.  There  was  nothing  wrong  with  the  car,  A  faint  tingling  raised  the  hair  on  the  back  of  his  neck  and  hands.  Peeringthrough  the  windshield  he  saw  a  change  in  the  appearance  of  the  world.  Elusive  transformations  of  some  kind  were  going  on  wherever  he  looked-an  eerie  gleam  on  the  sur-  face  ofthe  road,  colors  going  wrong  in  the  trees,  a  peculiar  dimness  in  the  air.  For  a  moment  he  thought  he  was  going  mad.  Then  he  remembered  the  date,  and  pulled  over  to  the  side  of  the  road.  She  woke  up  as  the  car  came  to  a  halt.  He  rolled  down  his  window.  A  deep  still-  ness  lay  over  the  earth.  &quot;'The  colors!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What's  happening?&quot;  &quot;It's  the  eclipse  of  the  sun.  We  for-  got.  It's  today.&quot;  They  sat  in  silence,  watching  the  strange  light.  He  wondered  if  she  was  frightened.  [REDACTED]  ashes  remained  in  the  funeral  home  for  several  weeks  before  he  finally  went  to  get  them.  In  the  large  waiting  room  he  sat  beside  a  rubber  plant  and  listened  to  footsteps  on  the  marble  floor.  &quot;Here  you  are,  sir.&quot;  A  small  pack-  age,  wrapped  in  brown  paper  and  care-  fully  tied  with  string.  &quot;'There's  an  affidavit  inside.&quot;  Lewis  pushed  through  the  glass  doors  and  walked  down  the  street  with  the  package  in  his  hand.  It  was  smaller  and  heavier  than  he'd  expected.  In  the  car,  he  put  it  in  the  glove  compartment,  changed  his  mind,  and  took  it  out  again.  He  drove  to  the  country  with  the  package  beside  him  on  the  seat.  It  was  late  afternoon  when  he  arrived.  He  parked  near  the  cottage  andwalked  up  the  hill,  past  the  house,  toward  the  ridge,  the  package  in  one  hand  and  a  small  trowel  in  the  oth-  er.  The  air  was  crisp.  Long  bars  of  sunlight  angled  through  the  trees  and  leaves  stirred  around  his  feet.  At  the  top  of  the  ridge  he  went  directly  to  a  par-  ticular  oak  she'd  once  pointed  out  to  him,  sat  down,  and  looked  out     over  the  valley.  Miles  away  a  highway  was  under  construction-the  bright-  orangeearth-moving  machines  impos-  sibly  small  against  the  raw  dirt,  like  toys  on  a  child's  blanket.  He  untied  the  string  and  removed  the  wrapping  paper.  He  placed  the  small  shiny  can  on  the  ground  and  sat  watching  it.  His  hands  shook  as  he  picked  up  the  trowel.  The  blade  turned  on  hidden  stones,  slowing  his  progress.  Overcome  by  a  sudden  sense  of  ur-  gency,  he  decided  not  to  bury  the  can  but  to  pour  the  contents  into  a  thin,  narrow  opening  in  the  dirt  carved  by  the  trowel.  He  was  afraid.  Blood  pounded  in  his  head  as  he  held  the  can,  broke  the  seal,  and  twisted  off  the  top  to  expose  a  muslin  bag,  He  opened  the  draw-  string  and  his  fear  vanished  instantly.  He  saw  a  clean  white  powder  with  small,  leached,  porous  bits  of  matter  that  had  once  been  bone.  He  touched  one  of  the  lumps  with  his  finger,  poured  the  ashes  into  the  ground,  and  covered  them  with  dirt.  Walking  back,  he  realized  he  still  held  the  can.  On  an  impulse  he  threw  it  high  in  the  air,  watching  it  gleam  once,  twice,  and  then  again  as  it  sailed  through  shafts  of  sunlight  and  disap-  peared  behind  the  trees.  WORKHAM  the  broker-pink,  growing  bald,  and  seventh  on  the  club  squash  ladder-bounced  back  and  forth,  racket  held  precisely  right,  eyes  fixed  on  the  front  wall.  He  was  drenched  with  sweat,  and  as  he  turned,  his  pot  belly  formed  a  perfect  dark  circle  under  the  clinging  shirt.  Lewis  slammed  the  ball  and  Workham  missed.  &quot;10-9,&quot;  Lewis  said.  He  served  and  moved  to  mid-court,  Workham  dug  into  the  corner  and  flicked  a  lob.  Lewis  volleyed,  but  Workham  was  in  position,  smashed  the  ball,  and  took  the  point.  &quot;10-all,&quot;  Workham  said.  Lewis  waited  for  the  soft  serve.  A  steady,  conservative  player,  Workham  invariably  lobbed  carefully  placed  shots  to  save  his  strength.  Lewis  met  the  ball  in  the  air,  Workham  punched  a  good  return,  and  a  long  rally  ensued,  each  man  fighting  forcontrol.  They  collided  in  center  court,  sweat  flying  from  the  impact.  &quot;Let,&quot;  Lewis  said.  They  began  again.  Lewis  hit  the  ball  harder  and  harder,  recklessly  stretching  his  body  to  the  limit.  A  fierce  heat  possessed  him.  He  took  points  without  interruption  and  won  the  game.  &quot;Rubber  game,&quot;  he  said,  holding  out  his  hand  for  the  ball.  Workham  moved  slowly.  &quot;Ball!&quot;  Lewis  snapped,  bang-  ing  his  racket  on  the  floor.  He  slammed  his  serves  relentless-  ly,  forcing  the  game.  Off  balance,  Workham  could  not  effect  his  fa-  vored  place  shots,  and  both  men  ran  full  out,  slamming  and  slicing,  shoes  squealing  on  the  white  floor,  At  7-3  Workham  sent  a  high  floater  to  the  back  wall.  Lewis  barely  managed  a  return.  Secure  in  the  T,  Workham  kept  him  running  back  and  forth  to  the  deep  corners  of  the  court.  A  balance  was  reached-Workham  in  the  center  stroking  evenly,  Lewis  in  back  scrambling  from  wall  to  wall,  un-  able  to  get  any  strength  into  his  shots.  He  felt  rage  rising.  His  vi-  sion  dimmed  and  points  of  light  swam  around  him.  As  he  ran  for  an  alley  shot,  he  real-  ized  the  ball  would  be  far  enough  awayfrom  the  wall  for  a  full  swing.  In  the  corner  of  his  eye  he  saw  Workham,  facing  away,  crouched  and  motionless,  his  vul-  nerability  at  once  ludi-  crous  and  infuriating.  Lewis  cocked  his  wrist  and  swung  with  every  ounce  of  strength  he  could  muster,  trying  to  pour  out  his  life,  to  explode  his  heart.  The  " b"strings  sang  and  the  ball  disap-  peared  in  speed.  There  was  a  sharp  crack  and  Workham  fell  to  the  floor.  Lewis's  mind  went  blank.  He  slipped  into  suspended  animation.  He  felt  himself  drifting  away  into  whiteness.  Workham  groaned.  He  got  up  and  walked  around  in  a  small  circle,  rubbing  his  back  with  his  hand.  &quot;O.K.?&quot;  Lewis  asked.  He  felt  dreamy.  The  court  seemed  to  be  stretching  into  a  long  corridor,  carrying  Workham  away.  &quot;Take  the  point,&quot;  Workham  said.  He  went  to  the  receiving  box  and  stood  watching  the  front  wall.  Lewis  was  unable  to  move,  but  suddenly  Workham  turned  away.  &quot;'Take  the  match,  for  that  matter,&quot;  he  said,  with  sudden  an-  ger.  He  left  the  court,  slamming  the  door  behind  him.  Lewis  put  his  back  to  the  wall  and  sank  to  the  floor,  sucking  great  gulps  of  air.  Sweat  stung  his  eyes.  He  waited,  and  as  his  body  grew  calmer  he  imagined  taking  it  apart,  dismantling  himself  bit  by  bit,  throwing  a  hand  into  a  corner,  sliding  aleg  across  the  floor,  rolling  his  head  like  a  bowling  ball.  He  imagined  him-  self  in  a  dozen  pieces,  strewn  over  the  white  room.  MAGES  from  the  hospital  flashed  in  his  mind,  catching  him  off  guard  as  he  made  coffee  or  took  a  shower.  An  old  man  shuffling  down  a  corridor,  bent  over  inside  his  chrome  walker.  The  bright  blur  of  rolling  equipment-food  trays,  racks  of  X-rays,  beds  and  carts  sliding  back  and  forth  in  the  halls  as  if  the  entire  hospital  were  slowly  rotating  in  the  air.  Standing  with  a  doctor  in  the  solari-  um,  a  large,  bright  room,  empty  save  for  a  man  in  a  neck  brace  watching  a  game  show  on  television.  Pue  told  her  the  tests  show  nothing.  Buzzers.  Actu-  ally  there  are  hot  spots  in  both  hips.  Audience  screams.  The  sound  of  an  amplified  clock.  Standing  outside  the  door  to  her  room  one  night  while  the  nurse  went  in.  A  quick  cry  as  the  needle  woke  his  mother-a  thin,  petulant  wail  of  pro-  test.  An  infant's  whinc,  freezing  his  heart.  E  bought  himself  new  clothes,  going  from  shop  to  shop  in  midtown.  One  afternoon,  wandering  through  a  large  store,  he  felt  dizzy.  People  rushed  by,  bells  rang,  elevator     &quot;And  dentistry?  I've  heard  dentistry  has  its  rewards  also.&quot;  doors  crashed,  and  he  was  forced  to  lean  against  a  counter  to  steady  himself.  A  display  dummy  stare  d  through  him.  He  pushed  away  and  ran  to  a  fire  exit.  A  few  flights  down  he  regained  control  of  himself.  He  sat  on  the  cement  stairs,  his  shoulder  pressing  the  wall.  Walking  home,  he  threaded  through  the  crowds  by  reflex.  Dazed,  he  lost  track  of  time.  He  found  hims  elf  stand-  ing  in  front  of  his  apartment  house,  looki  ng  up  at  his  own  window.  He  shifted  his  weight  from  one  foot  to  the  other,  back  and  forth,  the  shopping  bags  slapping  against  his  legs.  An  isol  ated  sequence  appeared  and  reappeared  in  his  dreams  ,  like  a  single  strip  of  film  randomly  spliced  into  dif-ferent  movies.  He  would  find  him  self  floating  in  complete  darkness,  without  weight.  His  hands  would  become  visi-ble,  and  then,  gradually,  the  rest  of  his  body.  His  brown  sucgde  shoes  were  sig-nificant  for  some  reason  he  could  not  quite  grasp.  Lights  flickered  in  the  dis-  tance.  Small  points  of  light  drifting  to-  ward  him  .  HE  kept  the  radio.  He  gave  her  clothing  to  charity,  sent  various  personal  effects  to  her  friends,  but  he  kept  the  radio.  No  larger  than  a  book,  encased  in  walnut  with  a  dial  down  the  spine,  it  stood  on  the  table  beside  his  bed.  He  listened  without  speakers,  through  earphones  plugged  directly  into  the  tuner,  as  she  had  listened.  He  marked  the  good  music  stations  and  lay  night  after  night  in  his  silent  room,  hyp-notized  by  the  powerful  effect  of  the  earphones.  Notes  s  eemed  to  rise  in  his  brain,  welling  up  from  within  as  im-ages  rise  in  a  dream.  Melodies  curved  and  fell  away  into  unsuspected  depths.  He  became  aware  of  vast  spaces  with-in  himself-long,  open  reaches  where  notes  disappeared  like  lazy  meteors.  He  began  to  feel  something  behind  the  music,  something  hidden,  unrelated  to  sound.  A  pressure  drifting  through  harmonies.  He  felt  a  presence  in  sudden  silences.  Lew.  Listen.  Listen.  Lew.  Is  it  you?  Here  I  am.  Here,  Lew.  Su  ddenly  afraid,  he  tore  the  car-  phones  from  his  head.  The  room  was  dark.  After  a  moment,  he  put  them  back  on.  IPs  all  right  ,  Lew.  His  mind  became  weightless.  Thoughts  swirled,  floating,  bursting  in-  to  nothingness  like  champagne  bubbles.  Yes.  That's  right.  Yes.  Do  that.  A  flood  of  tears  poured  from  his  eyes. "