 b"WHILE  compiling  research  for  my  forthcoming  best-seller,  &quot;Alpha,  Beta-Who's  Got  the  Psi?&quot;  (which  has  already  sold  one  hun-  dred  and  twenty-five  thousand  copies  in  paper,  although  I  have  only  com-  pleted  a  four-page  outline),  I  chanced  to  meet  an  incredible  man.  He  is  Alben  Sigafoos,  thirty-eight,  of  West  Haver-  sack,  [REDACTED].  Alben  has  an  uncom-  mon,  almost  unbelievable  gift  called  USP  (unsensory  perception),  which  reputable  scientists  are  utterly  at  a  loss  to  explain.  When  asked,  for  example,  to  hazard  which  one  of  a  number  of  ordinary  Zener  cards-marked  with  squiggly  lines,  circles,  stars,  crosses,  or  rectangles-you  hold  in  your  hand,  he  is  unable  ever  to  come  up  with  the  right  answer.  If  you  jingle  the  contents  of  your  pocket  or  change  purse  and  then  remove  something  that  you  hide  in  your  fist,  he  will  rack  his  brain  and  then  confess  that  he  hasn't  a  clue  about  what  it  is  that  you  are  holding.  If  you  give  in  and  tell  him  it's  a  coin,  he  will  scratch  his  head  and  finally  admit  that  he  simply  cannot  decide  whether  it  is  a  penny,  a  nickel,  a  dime,  or  a  quarter.  Astounding  but  true!  Since  nearly  everyone  who  has  met  him  tends  to  pass  all  this  off  as  some  form  of  cheap  stage  magic,  Sigafoos  was  barely  noticed  until  a  cub  reporter  for  the  West  Haversack  Democrat-  Republican  chanced  to  sit  next  to  him  at  the  counter  of  a  Sugar  'N'  Spice  cof-  fee  shop  and  thus  discovered  that  this  unique  individual  possesses  another,  even  more  unusual  gift.  When  handed  a  set  of  ordinary  household  keys,  Al-  ben  Sigafoos,  after  some  urging,  will  select  one  key  at  random  and  then  con-  centrate  on  it  intensely  for  two  or  three  minutes.  His  concentration  is  formida-  ble;  you  can  almost  feel  the  energy  ra-  diating  from  his  brain.  When  he  gives  that  key  back  to  you,  it  is  perfectly  straight!  I  have  seen  this  done  again  and  again,  and  it  can't  be  any  mere  trick,  because  Sigafoos  can  make  it  hap-  pen  with  any  key  that  anyone,  friend  or  stranger,  hands  to  him.  (Well,  almost  any  key:  a  bent  key  will  come  back  bent.)  When  I  recently  asked  Alben  about  this  eerie,  unpsychokinetic  power,  he  blushed.  &quot;Aw,  why  would  anybody  want  to  bend  a  key?&quot;  he  said  enig-  matically.  &quot;I  mean,  people  would  get  sore,  wouldn't  they?&quot;  When  Alben  Sigafoos  was  invited  to  Oral  Roberts  University  last  fall  on  an  all-expenses-paid  trip,  he  astounded  some  of  the  coolest  and  most  skeptical  minds  in  the  country  by  demonstrating  his  straight-key  phenomenon  hundreds  of  times,  under  laboratory-controlled,  &quot;double-blind&quot;  conditions.  In  the  end,  none  of  the  keys  was  found  to  be  out  of  line  by  so  much  as  a  micromillimetre,  and  the  assembled  scientists  threw  up  their  hands  or  shook  their  heads  (or  both)  in  bafflement.  During  my  visit  to  West  Haver-  sack,  I  subjected  this  man  to  a  thorough  interview-in-depth,  in  the  course  of  which  I  found  other  re-  markable  things  about  him.  For  ex-  ample,  Alben  has  never  in  his  life  had  a  premonition  that  later  came  true.  In  fact,  he  can't  remember  experiencing  a  recognizable  premonition  in  the  first  place.  He  says  he  dreams  only  rarely  (&quot;maybe  once  in  a  blue  moon&quot;)  and  that  his  dreams,  when  they  do  come,  are  about  &quot;ordinary  things  like  the  multiplication  table  and  Ohm's  law  and  the  Sears,  Roebuck  catalogue.&quot;  The  only  precognitive  ability  he  has  shown  is  guessing  which  of  three  col-  ored  lights  will  goon  next,  but  he  can  only  do  that  when  watching  the  traffic  light  at  the  corner  of  Main  and  Osage  Streets  in  downtown  West  Haversack,  where  he  may  be  found  on  most  Satur-  day  nights.  He  has  yet  to  experience  the  common  transcendental  feeling  of  leaving  his  body  (&quot;Who  would  want  to  do  that?&quot;),  and  Kirlian  photographs  of  his  head  come  back  unexposed,  in-  stead  of  showing  the  customary  spectral  corona.  He  claims  not  to  understand  deja  vu,  and  a  psi  graph  of  his  alpha,  beta,  and  theta  waves  shows  a  ruler-  straight  line.  Asked  to  comment  about  this,  a  customarily  dour  and  uncom-  municative  Edinburgh  psychologist  re-  marked,  &quot;It's  unkennae,  wha  bracht  unkennae.&quot;  ~  Finally,  however,  after  several  hours  of  unremitting  questions,  Alben  sud-     &quot;  denlybroke  down  and  admitted  to  me  that  he  had  recently  attempted  to  communicate  with  his  departed  mother.  &quot;I  called  her  in  San  Diego  last  month,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She'd  gone  down  there  and  moved  in  with  her  friend  Fred  last  December,  but  they  must  have  took  off  again,  because  some  stranger  answered  the  phone.  It  cost  me  $1.15,  for  nothing.&quot;  Once  last  summer,  I  learned,  Alben's  furniture  moved  unexpectedly  in  the  night,  but  he  wasn't  much  surprised,  since  he  was  eight  months  behind  on  his  payments  at  the  time.  Sigafoos,  an  apprentice  mukluk-  stitcher,  is  unemployed  at  present  and  rather  at  loose  ends.  His  only  hobby  seems  to  be  collecting  pictures  and  data  of  what  he  calls  IFO  (Identified  Fly-  ing  Objects)  sightings.  He  showed  me  some  of  the  voluminous  files  he  keeps  on  the  subject,  and  I  examined  a  number  of  blurry  snapshots  of  spar-  rows,  pigeons,  pop  flies,  airliners,  acrobats,  windblown  newspapers,  and  so  forth.  Sigafoos  believes  almost  fanat-  ically  that  the  skies  above  us  are  full  of  flying  objects,  all  of  which  can  be  traced  as  coming  from  the  planet  [REDACTED].  If  his  theory  is  true,  he  ex-  plained,  there  are  no  creatures  or  thinking  plants  from  outer  space  vis-  iting  or  observing  us,  and  hence  no-  body  is  superior  to  man.  &quot;Think  what  this  means!&quot;  he  said,  warming  to  his  favorite  topic.  &quot;If  no  one  has  the  abil-  ity  to  communicate  with  us,  then  we  must  be  the  only  intelligent  form  of  life  in  the  whole  ballpark.  I  mean,  we're  the  king  of  the  castle  and  they're  the  dirty  rascals.  And  thet  means  that  we  don't  have  to  waste  our  time  think-  ing  about  any  danged  foolishness  that  we  can't  see,  right?  A  lot  of  folks  around  here  think  I'm  crazier  than  a  bedbug  for  believing  this,  but  most  of  the  great  thinkers  in  history  have  been  called  loonies,  so  that  don't  bother  me  none.&quot;  I  was  seized  with  a  sense  of  icy  foreboding.  It  was  time  to  break  off  the  interview.  Aware  at  last  that  I  was  in  the  presence  of  a  true  nonsen-  sitive,  the  ultimate  ultra-mundane  man,  I  quietly  gathered  up  my  notes  and  pencils  and  made  good  my  es-  cape.  At  the  door,  I  looked  back  at  Alben  and  almost  stopped  to  ask  him  his  sign  (I  had  sized  him  up  as  a  classic  Taurus,  of  course).  But  then  it  came  to  me  that  he  might  actually  claim  not  to  know  the  answer,  and  I  closed  the  door  softly.  What  a  fruit-  cake!,  I  thought,  suddenly  grateful  that  Alben  Sigafoos  couldn't  read  my  mind.  "