 b"THE  schoolmaster  in  Bomacatall,  or  McKattle's  Hut,  was  gloved  and  masked  and  at  his  beehives  when  his  diminutive  brother,  the  school-  master  from  Knockatatawn,  came  down  the  dusty  road  on  his  high  bicycle.  It  was  an  Irish-made  bicycle.  The  schoolmaster  from  Knockatatawn  was  a  patriot.  He  could  have  bought  the  best  English-made  Raleigh  for  halfthe  price,  but  instead  he  imported  this  edi-  fice  from  the  twenty-six  into  the  six  counties  and  paid  a  mountain  of  duty  on  it.  The  bike,  and  more  of  its  kind,  was  made  in  Wexford  by  a  firm  that  made  the  sort  of  mowing  machine  that  it  took  two  horses  to  pull.  They  built  the  bikes  on  the  same  solid  principle.  There  was  a  great  view  from  the  sad-  dle.  Hugh,  who  was  the  son  of  the  schoolmaster  in  Bomacatall,  once  bor-  rowed  the  bike  and  rode  into  the  side  of  a  motorcar  that  was  coming  slowly  out  of  a  hedgy,  hidden  boreen.  He  was  tossed  sideways  into  the  hedgerow  and  had  a  lacework  of  scratches  on  his  face.  The  enamel  on  the  car  was  chipped  and  the  driver's  window  broken.  'The  bike  was  unperturbed.  To  his  brother,  who  was  six  feet  and  more,  the  little  man  from  Knock-  atatawn  said,  &quot;I  have  a  scheme  in  mind.&quot;  From  behind  the  mask  the  big  man  said,  &quot;Was  there  ever  a  day  that  God  sent  that  you  didn't  have  a  scheme  in  mind?&quot;  &quot;It  would  benefit  the  boy  Hugh.  C\xc3\xa9  an  aois  \xc3\xa9  anois?&quot;  'That  meant,  &quot;What  age  is  he  now?&quot;  &quot;Nine,  God  bless  him.&quot;  'Time  he  saw  a  bit  of  the  world.  Bracing  breezes,  silvery  sands,  booming  breakers,  lovely  lands  come  to  Bundoran.&quot;  That  was  an  advertisement  in  the  local  news-  paper.  &quot;You  could  sing  that  if  you  had  a  tune  to  it,&quot;  said  the  man  behind  the  mask.  &quot; The  holiday  would  do  him  good,&quot;  the  little  man  said,  &quot;and  for  three  weeks  there'd  be  one  mouth  less  to  feed.&quot;  That  was  a  forceful  argument.  The  master  from  Knockatatawn,  or  the  Hill  of  the  Conflagrations,  was  a  bach-  elor.  Hugh  was  midway  in  a  household  of  seven,  not  counting  the  father  and  mother.  The  bees  settled.  The  beekeeper  doffed  the  mask  and  wiped  the  sweat  off  a  broad,  humorous  face.  He  said,  &quot;James,  like  St.  Paul,  you're  getting  7  Oliver  on.  You  want  another  to  guide  you  and  lead  you  where  thou  wouldst  not.&quot;  The  nine-year-old,  as  he  told  me  a  long  time  afterward,  was  all  for  the  idea  of  Bundoran  except  that,  young  as  he  was,  he  knew  there  was  a  hook  at-  tached.  This  was  it:  At  home  on  the  Hill  of  the  Conflagrations  there  wasn't  a  soberer  man  than  the  wee  schoolmas-  ter,  none  more  precise  in  his  way  of  life  and  his  teaching  methods,  more  just  and  exact  in  the  administering  of  pun-  ishments  or  rewards.  But  Bundoran  was  for  him  another  world,  and  he,  when  he  was  there,  was  another  man.  He  met  a  lot  of  all  sorts  of  people.  He  talked  his  head  off,  behaved  as  if  he  had  never  heard  of  algebra,  and  drank  whiskey  as  if  the  world's  stock  of  it  were  going  to  run  dry  on  the  following  morning.  Yet,  always  an  exact  man,  he  knew  that  his  powers  of  navigation  when  he  was  in  the  whiskey  were  fail-  ing.  He  needed  a  pilot,  he  needed  a  tug,  or  both  combined  in  one:  his  nephew.  There  was  also  this  to  be  said  for  the  wee  man:  He  was  never  irascible  or  difficult  in  drink,  he  went  where  the  pilot  guided  him  and  the  tug  tugged  him.  He  was  inclined  to  sing,  but  then  he  was  musical.  So  for  one,  two,  three,  four  years,  the  nephew-and-uncle  navigational  co-  operation  worked  well,  The  nephew  had  his  days  on  the  sand  and  in  the  sea.  He  even  faced  up  to  it  with  the  expert  swimmers  at  Roguey  Rocks  and  the  Horse  Pool.  By  night,  while  he  waited  until  his  uncle  was  ready  to  be  steered  back  to  the  doss,  he  drank  gallons  of  lemon-  ade  and  the  like,  and  saw  a  lot  of  life.  With  the  natural  result  that  by  the  time  the  fifth  summer  came  around,  that  summer  when  the  winds  were  so  contrary  and  thesea  so  treacherous  that  a  priest  was  drowned  in  the  Horse  Pool,  the  nephew  was  developing  new  interests-he  was  looking  around  for  the  girls.  At  any  rate,  Bundoran  or  no  Bundoran,  he  was  growing  up.  Now,  this  was  a  special  problem,  because  the  schoolmaster  from  Knockatatawn  had  little  time  for  girls,  for  himself  or  anybody  else,  and  least  of  all  for  his  nephew,  who,  in  the  fifth  summer,  had  just  reached  four-  teen.  NE  of  the  wonders  of  the  day  on  which  they  helped  the  school-  master  from  Knockatatawn  to  the  ho-  tel  and  happed  him  safely  into  bed  by  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  was  that  Hugh  saw  a  woman,  one  of  the  Scotchies,  swimming  at  her  ease  in  the  pool  where  the  priest  had  drowned.  She  was  a  white-and-crimson  tropical  fish,  more  blinding  than  the  handsomest  perch:  white  for  arms,  shoulders,  mid-  riff,  and  legs;  crimson  for  cap  and  scanty  costume.  Women  were  not  sup-  posed  to  be  in  the  Horse  Pool  on  any  account.  But  so  soon  after  the  drown-  ing  the  usual  people  were  shunning  it,  and  that  woman  either  didn't  know  or  didn't  care.  The  Scotchies  who  came  to  the  seaside  to  Bundoran  in  the  sum-  mer  had  agreat  name  for  being  wild.  In  the  hotel  bedroom,  the  sun  came  in  as  muted,  slanted  shafts  through  the  cane  blinds.  The  shafts  were  all  dancing  dust.  Carpet  sweepers  weren't  much  in  use  in  that  hotel.  They  helped  the  wee  man  out  of  his  gray  sober  clothes  and  into  a  pair  of  blue-and-  white  striped  pajamas.  He  was  a  fierce,  hairy,  wee  fellow.  Arms  long  like  an  ape,  and  a  famous  fiddler  when  he  was  sober.  A  big  purple-faced  schoolmaster  from  Lurganboy  said,  &quot;Begod,  you're  like  a  striped  earthenware  jar  of  some-  thing  good.&quot;  The  little  man  waved  his  arms  and  tried  to  sing  and  once  slipped  off  the  edge  of  the  bed  and  sat  on  the  floor  and  recited  word-perfect:  A  Chieftain  to  the  bound  Cries:  &quot;Boatman,  do  not  tarry,  And  I'll  give  thee  a  silver  pound  To  row  us  o'er  the  ferry.&quot;  Highlands  The  lot  of  it,  every  verse,  all  about  how  the  waters  wild  swept  o'er  his  child  and  how  Lord  Ullin's  daughter  and  her  lover  were  drowned.  The  drowning  of  the  priest  must  have  put  it  into  his  mind.  'The  purple-faced  schoolmaster  from  Lurganboy,  rocking  a  little,  listened  with  great  gravity,  his  head  to  one  side,  his  black  bushy  eyes  glistening,  his  thick  smiling  lips  be-  dewed  with  malt.  He  said,  &quot;In  the  training  college  he  was  renowned  for  his  photographic  memory.  And  for  the  fiddle.&quot;  Hugh  said  nothing.  He  was  sick  with  delight.  His  uncle  was  a  blue-  and-white  earthenware  jar  of  Scotch  whiskey.  He  always  drank  Scotch  in  Bundoran-out  of  courtesy,  he  said,  to  the  hundreds  of  Scotchies  who  came  here  every  year  on  their  holidays  and  spent  good  money  in  the  country.  The  music  of  hurdy-gurdies  and  hobby  horses  and  the  like  came  drifting  to  them  from  the  strand,  over  the  houses  on  the  far  side  of  the  town's  long  street.  'This  blessed  day,  the  blue-and-white  jar  could  hold  no  more.  He  would  sleep  until  tomorrow's  dawn,  and  Hugh  was  a  free  man,  fourteen,  and  the  world  before  him.  " b"&quot;He'll  rest  [REDACTED];  said  the  red-faced  master  from  Lurganboy.  They  tiptoed  out  of  the  room  and  down  the  stairs.  &quot;What'll  you  do  now,  boy?&quot;  &quot;Go  for  a  walk.&quot;  &quot;Do  that.  It's  healthy  young.&quot;  He  gave  Hugh  a  pound,  taken  all  crumpled  out  of  a  trouser  pocket.  Then,  nimbly  for  such  a  heavy  man,  he  sidestepped  into  a  raucous  bar  and  the  swinging  doors-glass,  brass,  and  ma-  hogany-closed  behind  him.  It  was  an  abrupt  farewell,  yet  Hugh  was  all  for  him,  and  not  only  because  of  the  crumpled  pound  but  because  in  him,  man  to  man  and  glass  for  glass,  the  schoolmaster  from  the  Hill  of  the  Con-  flagrations  had  for  once  taken  on  more  than  his  match.  Several  times  as  they  helped  the  little  man  toward  his  bed,  the  unshakable  savant  from  Lurganboy  had  said  to  Hugh,  &quot;Young  man,  you  are  looking  at  one  who  in  his  cups  and  in  his  declining  years  can  keep  his  steps,  sir,  like  a  grenadier  guard.&quot;  the  for  HUGH  had  the  map  of  his  day  al-  ready  worked  out  in  his  head.  The  Scotchie  girl  he  was  looking  for-  ward  to  seeing  wouldn't  be  sitting  on  her  high  windowsill  until  seven  o'clock.  She  was  there  most  evenings  about  that  time,  a  fellow  he  knew  had  told  him.  She  and  God  knew  how  many  other  Scotchies,  male  and  female,  lived  in  a  three-story  yellow  boarding  house  at  the  east  end  of  the  town.  There  was  a  gar-  den  in  front  of  it,  a  sloping  lawn  but  no  fence  or  hedge,  and  the  two  oval  flower  beds  were  rimmed  with  great  stones,  smoothed  and  shaped  by  the  sea,  tossed  up  on  the  beach  at  Tullaghan,  to  the  west,  gathered  and  painted  and  used  as  ornaments  by  the  local  people.  This  Scotchie  girl  was  one  that  liked  at-  tention.  The  way  she  went  after  it  was  to  clamber  out  of  a  bedroom  window  on  the  third  floor  and  to  sit  there  for  an  hour  or  more  in  the  evening,  kicking  her  heels,  singing,  laughing,  pretend-  ing  to  fall,  blowing  kisses,  and  shout-  ing  things  in  unintelligible  Scottish  at  the  people  in  the  street  below,  throwing  or  dropping  things-flowers,  chocolates,  litle  fluttering  handkerchiefs,  and  once,  he  had  heard,  a  pair  of  knickers.  He  had  only  seen  her  once  at  those  ca-  pers-one  evening  when  he  navigated  past,  tug  before  steamship,  with  his  uncle  in  tow,  She  sure  as  God  was  there  to  be  seen.  It  wouldn't  havebeen  half  the  fun  if  she'd  worn  a  bathing  suit,  but  a  skirt  with  nothing  underneath  was  something  to  tell  the  fellows  about  when  he  got  back  to  Bomacatall.  Not  that  they'd  believe  him,  but  still  .  ..  Behind  her  in  the  room  there  must  have  been  thirty  girls.  They  squealed  like  a  piggery.  That  was  a  hell  of  a  house.  A  randyboo,  the  wee  master  called  it.  Bomacatall  and  Knockatatawn  combined  neverheard  the  equal  of  the  noise  that  came  out  of  that  house.  On  the  ground  floor,  the  piano  was  always  going,  and  a  gramophone  often  at  the  same  time,  and  a  melodeon  and  pipes,  and  boozy  male  voices  singing  &quot;Bonny  Doon&quot;  and  &quot;Bonny  Charlie's  Noo  Awa'&quot;  and  &quot;Over  the  Sea  to  Skye&quot;  and  &quot;Loch  Lomond&quot;  and  &quot;The  Blue  Bells  of  Scotland&quot;  and  &quot;Bonny  Stra-  thyre&quot;  and  &quot;Bonny  Mary  of  Argyll&quot;  and  all  the  time  and  in  and  out  be-  tween  everything  else:  For  I'm  no  awa  tae  bide  awa,  For  I'm  no  awa  tae  leave  ye,  For  I'm  no  awa  tae  bide  awa,  I'll  come  back  an'  see  ye.  'They  work  hard  all  year,&quot;  the  wee  master  used  tosay.  &quot;In  the  big  fac-  tories  and  shipyards  of  Glasgow.  Then  they  play  hard.  They're  entitled  to  it.  The  Scots  are  a  sensitive,  generous  peo-  ple,  and  very  musical.&quot;  The  red-  or  purple-faced  master  from  Lurganboy  left  him  outside  the  swinging  doors  of  the  saloon  bar.  That  Lurganboy  man  was  a  wonder  to  see  at  the  drink.  When  he  moved,  Hugh  thought,  he  should  make  a  " b"sound  like  the  ocean  surf  itself  with  the  weight  of  liquidinside  him.  He  had  also  said  something  remarkable,  and  given  Hugh  a  phrase  to  remember.  For  as  they'd  steered  the  Knockatatawn  man  round  a  windy  corner  from  the  promenade  to  the  main  street,  a  crowd  of  ten  or  eleven  Scotchie  girls  had  over-  taken  them,  singing  and  shouting,  waving  towels  and  skimpy  bathing  suits,  wearing  slacks  and  sandals,  bright  blouses,  short  skirts,  sweaters  with  sleeves  knotted  round  their  waists  and  hang,  ing  over  rumps  like  britchens  on  horses.  &quot;This  town,&quot;  said  the  master  from  Lur-  ganboy,  's  hoaching  with  women.&quot;  That  was  the  north-  ern  word  you'd  use  to  describe  the  way  fin-  gerlings  wriggle  over  and  around  each  other  at  the  shallow  fringes  of  pools  on  blind-  ing  June  days.  &quot;Hoaching.  Hoaching  with  wom-  en,&quot;  Hugh  said  to  himself  as  he  set  out  to  follow  the  map  he  had  drawn  in  his  mind  which  would  bring  him  back  at  seven  o'clock  to  the  place  where  the  daft  girl  kicked  her  heels  upon  the  windowsill.  ROM  the  house  of  glass  to  the  Nuns'  Pool  he  walked  by  way  of  the  harbor  where  the  fishing  boats  are.  It  isn't  really  a  house  of  glass.  The  shopkeeper  who  built  it  has  a  fanciful  sort  of  mind,  and  has  pebble-dashed  the  front  wall  of  his  place  with  frag-  ments  of  broken  glass.  The  shop  faces  east,  catching  the  morning  sun;  the  whole  wall  then  lives  and  dances  like  little  colored  tropical  fish  frisking,  hoaching,  in  a  giant  aquarium,.  Hugh  can  look  down  on  it  from  his  window,  which  is  right  on  top  of  the  hotel  across  the  street.  Some  people  say  the  wall  is  beautiful.  Some  people  say  the  man  is  crazy.  The  little  seer  from  Knockata-  tawn  says  that's  the  way  with  people.  Westward  the  course  toward  the  Nuns'  Pool.  Past  the  place  where  the  sea  crashes  right  up  to  the  side  of  the  street.  No  houses  here,  and  only  a  high  strong  wall  keeps  it  from  splattering  the  traffic.  Here  in  the  mornings,  when  the  tide  is  ebbed  and  the  water  quiet,  a  daft  old  lady  in  a  long  dress  walks  out  along  rocks  and  sand,  out  and  out  until  she's  up  to  her  neck  in  the  water,  dress  and  all,  and  only  her  head  and  wide-  brimmed  straw  hat  to  be  seen.  Then  she  comes  calmly  out  again  and  walks  home  dripping.  Nobody  worries  or  bothers  about  her.  The  bay  is  her  bath,  tub.  She  lives  here  winter  and  summer.  This  day  the  harbor  is  empty,  a  few  white  sails  far  out  on  the  bay,  pleasure  boats.  Hugh  sits  on  the  tip  of  the  mole  for  a  while,  and  looks  down  into  the  deep  translucent  water.  On  the  gravel-  ly  bottom,  there  are  a  few  dead,  dis-  carded  fish,  a  sodden  cardboard  box,  and  fragments  of  lobster  claws  turned  white.  If  he  could  clamber  around  that  sharp  rock  headland  and  around  two  or  three  more  of  the  same,  he  could  peep  into  the  Nuns'  Pool  and  see  what  they're  up  to.  Do  they  plunge  in,  clothes  and  all,  like  the  mad  woman  in  the  morning?  It's  hard  to  imagine  nuns  dressed  like  the  Scotchie  in  the  pool  where  the  priest  was  drowned.  Surely  the  priests  and  the  nuns  should  share  the  one  pool,  and  leave  Roguey  Rocks  and  the  Horse  Pool  to  the  men  and  the  wild  Scotchies.  The  strand  and  thesurf  are  for  children,  and  after  five  summers  he  knows  he's  no  longer  a  child.  JULY  22,  1974  But  he's  also  alone,  and  he  knows  that,  too.  Tugging  and  steering  his  mighty  atom  of  an  uncle  has  taken  up  all  his  time,  and  cut  him  off  from  his  kind.  On  the  cliff-top  path  by  the  Nuns'  Pool,  there  are  laughing  girls  by  the  dozen,  and  couples  walking.  In  corners  be-  hind  sod  fences,  there  are  couples  asprawl  on  rugs  or  on  the  naked  grass,  grappled  like  wrestlers,  but  motion-  less  and  in  deep  silence.  Nobody  pays  the  least  attention  to  him.  Fair  enough-he  seems  to  be  the  youngest  per-  son  present.  Anyone  younger  is  on  the  sand  or  in  the  surf.  Or  go-  ing  for  rides  on  don-  keys.  He  is  discovering  that  love  is  not  a  satis-  factory  spectator  sport.  Steep  steps  cut  in  rock  go  down  to  the  Nuns'  Pool.  Was  it  called  after  one  nun  or  gaggles  of  nuns,  season  after  season?  It  must  have  been  one  horse.  But  what  was  a  horse  ever  doing  out  there  on  rocks  and  seaweed  and  salt  water?  He  sees  as  he  walks  a  giant  nun,  a  giant  horse.  The  steep  steps  turn  a  corner  and  vanish  behind  a  wall  of  rock  as  big  as  Benbulben  Mountain.  Only  God  or  a  man  in  a  helicopter  could  see  what  goes  on  in  there.  Do  they  swim  in  holy  silence-  praying  perhaps,  making  aspirations  to  Mary  the  Star  of  the  Sea?  He  listens  for  the  sort  of  shouts  and  music  and  screaming  laughs  that  come  from  the  house  where  the  girl  sits  on  the  win-  dowsill.  He  hears  nothing  but  the  wash  of  the  sea,  the  wind  in  the  cliffside  grass,  the  crying  of  the  gulls  What  would  you  expect?  It  is  ten  minutes  to  five  o'clock.  He  has  time  to  walk  on  to  the  place  where  the  Dowes  River  splits  into  two,  and  goes  to  the  sea  over  the  ranked,  sea-shaped  stones  of  Tullaghan,  to  walk  back  to  the  hotel  by  the  main  road,  feast  on  the  customary  cold  ham  and  tomatoes  and  tea,  bread  and  but-  ter,  wash  his  hands  and  face  and  sleek  his  hair  with  Brylcreem  and  part  it  up  the  middle,  and  still  be  on  good  time  and  in  a  good  place  for  the  seven-  o'clock  show.  He  does  all  this.  He  is  flat-footed  from  walking,  and  a  little  dispirited.  On  the  stony  strand  of  Tul-     " b"laghan,  there  isn't  even  a  girl  to  be  seen.  If  there  was,  he  could  draw  her  attention  to  the  wonderful  way  the  sea  forms  and  places  the  stones,  rank  on  rank,  the  biggest  ones  by  the  waterline  and  matted  with  seaweed,  the  smallest  and  daintiest  right  up  by  the  sand  and  the  whistling  bent  grass.  They  are  vari-  ously  colored.  The  tide  has  ebbed.  Far  out,  the  water  growls  over  immovable  stones.  He  rests  for  a  while  by  the  two  bridges  over  the  Dowes  River.  If  there  was  a  girl  there,  he  could  tell  her  how  the  river  flows  down  from  Lough  Melvin,  and  how  the  trout  in  the  lake  and  the  trout  in  the  river  have  the  giz-  zards  of  chickens,  and  how,  to  account  forthat  oddity,  there's  a  miracle  story  about  an  ancient  Irish  saint.  There  is  no  girl  there.  A  passing  car  blinds  him  with  dust.  Has  the  evening  become  more  chilly  or  is  that  just  the  effect  of  hun-  ger?  He  accelerates.  He  knows  that  while  a  Scotchie  girl  might  show  some  interest  in  stones  shaped  and  colored  into  mantelpiece  or  dressing-room  or-  naments,  she  would  be  unlikely  to  care  much  about  trout  or  ancient  miracles.  In  the  hotel,  the  master  is  sound  asleep  in  his  blue-and-white  bars,  the  bed-  clothes  on  the  floor.  He  doesn't  snore.  Hugh  eats  four  helpings  of  ham  and  tomatoes-two  for  himself,  two  for  the  recumbent  fiddler  from  the  Hill  of  the  Conflagrations.  The  evening  is  still  ahead  of  him,  and  the  fleshpots  delectably  steam-  ing.  There  is  no  glitter  from  the  house  of  glass.  The  hot  tea  and  ham,  the  thought  ofthe  kicking  girl  on  the  high  windowsill  have  done  him  a  lot  of  good.  In  the  evening,  most  of  the  children  will  be  gone  from  the  strand,  the  Palais  de  Danse  warming  up,  the  hoaching  at  its  best.  E  wasn't  the  only  one  watching  forthe  vision  to  appear  on  the  windowsill  of  the  yellow  boarding  house,  and  right  in  the  middle,  like  a  gigantic  Rugby-football  forward  holding  together  a  monumental  scrum,  was  the  purple-faced  man  from  Lurganboy.  The  Assyrian,  Hugh  thought,  came  down  like  the  wolf  on  the  fold,  and  his  cohorts  were  gleaming  in  purple  and  gold.  He  wasn't  his  uncle's  neph-  ew  for  nothing,  even  if  he  wasn't  quite  sure  what  a  cohort  meant.  The  man  with  the  face  as  pur-  ple  as  cohorts  saw  it  differently.  To  the  men  that  ringed  him  round  he  said,  &quot;Lads,  I  declare  to  me  Jasus,  'tis  like  Lourdes  or  Fatima  waiting  for  the  Lady  to  appear.  All  we  lack  is  hymns  and  candles.&quot;  &quot;We  have  the  hymns,&quot;  one  voice  said.  &quot;She  has  the  candles.&quot;  &quot;Ave,  ave,&quot;  said  another  voice.  They  were  a  scruffy  enough  crowd,  Hugh  thought,  to  be  in  the  company  of  a  schoolmaster  that  had  the  benefit  of  education  and  the  best  of  training.  The  man  from  Lurganboy  must,  at  last,  have  drunk  his  fill,  like  the  stag  at  eve,  or  he  wouldn't,  surely  to  God,  be  in  the  middle  of  them.  The  din  was  de-  lightful-voices  male  and  female,  a  gramophone  playing  a  military  march,  somebody  singing  that  there  are  mead-  ows  in  Lanark  and  mountains  in  Skye.  And  he  was  thinking  what  a  wonderful  people  the  Scots  were,  and  what  a  hell  and  all  of  a  house  that  must  be  to  live  in,  when  the  high  window  went  up  with  a  bangand  there  she  was:  quick  as  a  sparrow  on  a  branch  but  brighter,  much  brighter.  He  had  heard  of  a  bird  of  paradise  but  never  had  he  seen  one.  But  if  such  a  bird  existed  then  its  plumage  would  really  have  to  be  something  to  surpass  in  splendor  what  Hugh,  in  the  dying  western  evening,  saw  roosting  and  swinging  on  the  windowsill.  Far  and  beyond  Roguey  Rocks,  the  sun  would  be  sinking  in  crimson.  The  light  came  over  the  roofs  of  the  houses  across  the  street,  dazzled  the  windows,  set  the  girl  on  fire.  Long  red  hair,  red  dress,  pink  stockings,  red  shoes  with  wooden  soles.   She  was  so  high  up,  the  angle  was  so  awkward,  the  late  sunlight  so  dazzling  that  he  could  find  out  little  about  her  face  except  that  it  was  laughing.  The  scrum  around  the  Lurganboy  man  cheered  and  whistled,  He  knew  she  was  laughing,  too,  because  he  could  hear  her.  She  was  shouting  down  to  the  Lurganboy  contingent,  the  caballeros,  but,  because  of  the  noise  from  the  house  and  the  street,  he  couldn't  pick  out  any  words,  and  anyway  she  would  be  talk-  ing  Scottish.  Nor  could  he  be  certain  that  he  had  been  correctly  informed  as  to  what,  if  anything,  she  wore  under-  neath  the  red  dress-although  when  he  got  home  to  his  peers  in  McKattle's  Hut,  or  Bomacatall,  he  sure  as  God  wouldn't  spoil  a  good  story  by  unrea-  sonable  doubts.  All  told,  it  was  an  imperfect  ex-  perience.  She  twisted  and  tacked  so  rapidly,  agile  as  a  monkey,  that  a  man  could  see  nothing  except  crimson.  He  couldn't  even  have  known  that  her  red  shoes  had  wooden  soles  if  it  hadn't  been  that,  with  the  dint  of  kicking,  one  of  them  came  unstuck  and  landed  as  surely  as  a  cricket  ball  in  his  cupped  palms,  where  he  stood  in  hiding  behind  the  bush.  It  was  in  the  pocket  of  his  jacket  before  he  knew  what  he  was  doing.  He  was  off  through  the  crowd  in  asecond,  and  nobody  but  the  girl  saw  him  go.  The  eyes  of  Lurganboy  and  his  men  were  on  the  vision.  She  screamed  high  and  long.  From  the  far  end  of  the  crowd  he  glanced  back,  and  saw  herpointing  toward  him.  But  nobody  bothered  to  look  the  way  she  was  pointing.  The  map  of  his  evening  was  as  clear  in  his  mind  as  the  strand  before  him,  as  sure  as  the  shoe  in  his  pocket,  and  hunt-the-slipper  was  a  game  at  which  anything  might  happen.  HE  people  inthis  place  have,  like  the  tides,  their  own  pecul-  iar  movement.  Evening,  as  he  had  expected,  draws  most  of  the  chil-  dren  away  from  the  strand  toa  thousand  boarding-house  bedrooms.  The  promise  of  the  moon  draws  the  loving  couples,  the  laughing  and  shouting  groups,  away  from  the  westward  walk  by  the  Nuns  Pool  to  dry,  sheltered  nooks  be-  tween  strand  and  dunes,  to  the  hollows  in  the  grassy  tops  of  the  high  cliffs  above  Roguey,  to  the  place  where  later  the  drums  will  begin  to  feel  their  way  in  the  Palais  de  Danse.  Every  night,  including  Sunday,  there  is  not  only  a  dance  but  a  few  brawls  and  a  talent  competition  in  the  Palais.  No  moon  yet.  No  drums  yet.  The  " b"last  red  rays  are  drowned  in  the  ocean.  The  light  is  gray.  The  strand  is  pret-  ty  empty  and  a  little  chilly;  the  sea  is  far  out.  But  as  he  runs,  ankle  deep  in  churned  sand,  down  the  slope  from  the  now  silent  motionless  hobbyhorses  and  hurdy-gurdies,  he  sees  a  slow,  silent  procession  of  people  coming  to-  ward  him  around  the  jagged  black  corner  of  Roguey  Rocks.  The  sea  washes  up  almost  around  their  feet.  They  step  cautiously  across  a  shelf  of  rock,  then  more  rapidly  and  boldly  along  the  slapping  wet  sand  by  the  water's  edge.  Four  men  in  the  lead  are  carrying  something.  He  runs  toward  them,  all  girls  forgotten.  Whatever  chance  anyway  he  had  of  meeting  a  girl  during  the  day,  he  can  only  have  less  now  in  this  half-desolate  place.  The  red  shoe  will  be  his  only  souvenir,  yet  still  something  to  show  to  the  heathens  in  Bomacatall.  Half-  way  across  the  strand,  a  distraught  woman  in  skirt  and  cardigan,  hair  blowing  wild,  stops  him.  She  says,  &quot;Wee  boy,  see  if  it's  a  wee  boy  with  fair  hair.  He's  missing  for  an  hour  and  I'm  distracted.  Jesus,  Mary,  and  Jo-  seph  protect  him.  I'm  afraid  to  look  myself.&quot;  But  it  isn't  a  wee  boy  with  fair  hair.  It  isn't  even  the  crimson-and-white  Scotchie  girl  who  had  been  swimming  in  the  Horse  Pool  and  whom  the  sea  might  have  punished  for  sacrilege-for  surely  a  dead,  drowned  priest  must  make  some  difference  to  the  nature  of  the  water.  What  he  sees  is  nothing  that  you  could  exactly  put  a  name  to.  The  four  men  carry  it  on  a  door  taken  off  its  hinges.  It's  very  large  and  sodden.  There's  nothing  in  particular  where  the  face  should  be-except  that  it's  very  black.  A  woman  looks  at  it  and  gasps.  Somebody  says,  &quot;Cover  that  up,for  God's  sake.&quot;  A  tall,  red-headed  man  throws  a  plastic  raincoat  over  the  black  nothing-  in-particular.  Hugh  walks  back  to  the  woman  in  the  skirt  and  cardigan.  He  tells  her  that  it  isn't  a  wee  boy  with  fair  hair.  She  thanks  God.  &quot;It's  a  big  person  that  must  have  been  a  long  time  in  the  water.&quot;  But  she  has  moved  away  and  isn't  listening.  He  falls  in  at  the  tail  of  the  procession.  People  leave  it  and  join  it,  join  it  and  leave  it.  It's  a  class  of  a  funeral.  An  ambulance  comes  scream-  ing  down  the  slope  from  the  long  town,  and  parks  beside  the  stabled  silent  hob-  byhorses.  Two  civic  guards  come  run-  ning,  a  third  on  a  bicycle.  Behind  on  the  strand,  one  single  man  in  a  long  black  coat  walks,  fearing  no  ghosts,  to-  ward  Roguey  Rocks.  No  couples  or  laughing  groups  are  to  be  seen,  even  on  the  grassy  cliff  tops.  He  fingers  the  shoe  in  his  pocket  to  remind  him  of  girls.  A  drum  booms,  a  horn  blares  from  the  Palais  de  Danse,  which  is  halfway  up  the  slope  toward  the  town.  He  fol-  lows  the  procession  until  it  passes  the  Palais,  then  leaves  it.  He  gets  in,  and  for  free,  simply  by  saying  that  he's  singing  in  Irish  in  the  talent  competi-  tion.  HE  hall  was  already  crowded,  be-  cause  the  evening  had  turned  chilly  and  the  threat  of  rain  was  in  the  air.  He  found  a  seat  in  a  corner  near  the  ladies,  where  he  could  watch  the  procession  coming  and  going.  They  came  and  went  in  scores,  and  for  all  the  attention  any  of  them  paid  to  him  he  might  have  been  invisible.  He  was  grateful  for  the  anonymity.  He  was  too  weary  to  carry  on  with  the  hopeless  chase,  and  that  grim  vision  on  the  beach  had  given  him  other  things  to  think  about.  It  was  still  fun  to  sit  and  watch  the  women,  all  shapes  and  sizes  and  colors,  and  moods.  They  went  in  demure  and  came  out  giggling.  That  was  because  most  of  them,  he  had  heard,  kept  naggins  of  gin  and  vodka  concealed  in  the  cloakroom.  It  was  a  great  world,  and  all  before  him.  The  band  was  thunderous,  the  floor  more  and  more  crowded,  until  somebody  thumped  a  gong  and  everybody  who  could  find  a  chair  sat  on  one-girls  who  couldn't  sat  recklessly  on  the  knees  of  strangers,  nobody  on  his.  So  he  stood  up  and  gave  his  chair  to  a  girl  who  didn't  even  say  thanks.  The  band  van-  ished.  A  woman  sat  at  the  piano,  a  man  with  a  fiddle  and  a  young  fellow  with  a  guitar  stood  beside  her.  This  was  the  talent  competition.  As  a  grown  man  long  afterward,  he  couldn't  remember  much  of  it.  The  time  was  after  eleven,  he  had  been  on  foot  all  day,  his  eyes  were  closing  with  sleep.  A  man  with  long  brown  hair  and  long-the  longest-legs  and  big  feet  came  out,  sang  in  a  high  nervous  tenor  about  the  bard  of  Armagh,  then  tripped  over  the  music  stand  and  fell  flat  on  his  face.  That  act  was  much  appreciated.  A  little  girl  in  a  white  frock  and  with  spangles  or  something  shining  in  her  hair  tiptoed  out,  curtsied,  holding  the  hem  of  her  skirt  out  wide  in  her  hands,  danced  a  jig  to  the  fiddle,  then  sang  a  song  in  Irish  that  meant,  &quot;'There  are  two  little  yellow  goats  at  me,  courage  of  the  milk,  courage  of  the  milk.  This  is  the  tune  that  is  at  the  piper,  Hielan  laddy,  Hielan  laddy.&quot;  And  more  of  the  same.  A  fat  bald  man  sang,  &quot;While  I'm  jog  jog  jogging  along  the  high-  way,  a  vagabond  like  me  ...&quot;  'Then  there  were  tin  whistles  and  concerti-  nas,  six  sets  of  Scottish  and  two  of  Irish,  or  Uilleann,  pipes,  piano  accordi-  ons,  melodeons,  combs  in  tissue  paper,  and  clicking  spoons,  cornet,  fiddle,  big  bass  drum,  something,  some-  thing,  and  euphonium.  As  the  song  says.  He  lost  interest.  His  insteps  ached.  He  would  have  slipped  away  un-  " b"noticed,  but  a  crowd  and  girls  hoaching  were  always  better  than  a  lonely  room.  He  saw  in  the  far  corner  the  man  from  Lurgan-  boy  asleep  within  a  chair,  his  legs  out  like  logs,  hands  locked  over  splendid  stomach  and  watch  chain  and  vel-  vet  waistcoat,  chin  on  chest,  black  hat  at  a  wild  angle  but  bravely  holding  on  to  his  head.  Five  other  adults  sat  in  a  row  beside  him,  all  awake  except  Lurgan-  boy.  As  Hugh  watched,  Lurganboy  awoke,  pulled  in  his  legs,  raised  his  head,  gripped  the  arms  of  his  chair,  and  hoist  ed  himself  to  sit  erect.  The  ballroom  was  silent.  Was  it  the  oddness  ofthe  silence  made  the  sleeper  awake?  No,  not  that,  but  something,  Hugh  felt,  was  going  to  happen.  The  drummer  was  back  on  the  stage.  He  struck  the  drum  a  boom  that  went  round  the  hall,  echoing,  shivering  slowly  away.  Then  the  comp\xc3\xa9re  said,  &quot;Ladies  and  gentlemen.&quot;  He  said  it  twice.  He  held  up  his  right  hand.  He  said  again,  &quot;Ladies  and  gentlemen,  while  the  judges,  including  our  old,  true,  tried,  and  stalwart  friend  from  Lurganboy,  are  making  up  their  minds,  adding  up  points,  assessingthe  vast  array  of  talent,  not  to  mention  grace  and  beauty,  we  will  meet  again  an  old  friend,  a  man  who  needs  no  in-  troduction,  a  man  who  many  a  time  and  oft  has  starred  on  this  stage  and  who,  in  days  gone  by  but  well  remem-  bered,  has  worn  more  laurels  for  music  than  ...&quot;  The  cheers  hit  the  roof,  and  out  on  the  stage  like  a  released  jack-in-the-box  stepped  the  wee  master  from  Knocka-  tatawn,  sober  as  a  judge,  lively  as  a  cricket,  dapper  as  a  prize  greyhound,  fiddle  in  one  fist,  bow  in  the  other.  When  the  cheering  stopped,  he  played  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  even  thegig-  glers,  resurfacing  after  gin  and  vodka,  kept  a  respectful  silence.  Lord  God  Al-  mighty,  he  could  play  the  fiddle.  IT  could  be  that  the  way  to  get  the  women  is  to  bea  bachelor  and  play  the  fiddle  and  drink  all  day  and  payno  attention  to  them.  Hugh  said  long  after-  ward  that  he  never  saw  anything  like  it  before  or  since,  flies  round  the  honey-  pot,  rats  round  a  carcass,  never  did  he  see  hoaching  like  that  hoaching,  and  in  the  middle  of  it  and  hopping  about  on  the  stage  like  a  wound-up  toy,  a  mon-  key  on  a  stick,  the  red  Scotchie  girl  from  the  windowsill,  and  her  shoe  in  his  pocket.  Radar  or  something  must  have  told  her  where  he  was.  She  saw  him,  isolated  as  he  was,  standing  like  a  pillar-box  in  the  middle  of  the  floor,  for  the  crowd  was  on  the  stage  or  fight,  ing  to  get  on  the  stage,  and  the  drum  was  booming  and  the  comp\xc3\xa9re  shout,  ing  and  nobody  listening.  She  came  to-  ward  him  slowly,  and  he  backed  away  and  then  ran  for  the  beach,  and  then  stopped.  The  moon  was  out  between  clouds.  There  was  a  mizzle  of  rain.  He  stopped  running  and  looked  at  the  moon  and  the  moonlight  on  the  water,  This  was  destiny,  and  he  had  no  real  wish  to  run  from  it.  The  moon  shines  bright  on  such  a  night  as  this.  In  later  years,  a  moonlit  beach  always  re-  minded  him  of  loneliness,  a  crowded  beach  of  faceless  death.  She  was  a  little  monkey  of  a  girl,  and  she  crouched  her  shoulders  and  stooped  when  she  talked.  Her  red  hair  was  down  to  her  hips.  She  said,  &quot;Wee  laddie,  will  ye  no  gie  me  back  ma  shoe?&quot;  He  was  learning  the  language.  &quot;I'm  as  big  as  ye  are,  yersel.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Will  ye  no  gie  me  back  ma  shoe?&quot;  She  wasn't  pleading.  She  wasn't  an-  gry.  He  knew  by  her  big  eyes  that  it  was  all  fun  to  her,  all  part  of  the  holi-  day.  She  really  wasn't  any  taller  than  himself,  and  her  foot  fitted  into  his  pocket.  &quot;It's  no  here.  It's  in  ma  room,&quot;  &quot;You'll  bring  it  tae  me.&quot;  &quot;For  sure.  It's  no  awa  tae  bide  away.&quot;  &quot;Guid  laddie.  Do  ye  dance?&quot;  &quot;'Thon's  my  uncle  wi'  the  fiddle.&quot;  &quot;Ye're  like  him.  Ye  were  quick  away  wi'  ma  shoe.  I'll  no  tell  him  ye're  here.&quot;  FROM  that  night  on,  the  red  shoe  was  his  ticket  of  admission  to  the  wild  happy  house.  Nothing  much,  nat-  urally,  came  of  that  except  a  lot  of  singing  and  some  kisses  in  the  morn-  ings  from  a  sort  of  elder  sister.  He  learned  to  talk  and  understand  Scots,  and  to  this  day,  and  in  his  cups,  can  sing  that  he's  no  awa  tae  bide  away  with  the  best  Glaswegian  that  e'er  cam  doon  frae  Gilmour  Hill,  Like  his  un-  cle,  he  enjoyed  his  double  life.  Not  for  years,  though,  not  until  he  had  been  through  college  and  had  his  own  school,  did  he  tell  the  tale  to  me  or  the  old  man,  who  by  that  time  was  retired  and  able  to  drink  as  he  pleased.  The  old  fellow,  mellow  at  the  time,  laughed  immoderately  and  said,  &quot;Seemuldoon,  I  always  hold,  is  a  land  of  milk  and  honey  if  you  keep  your  own  bees  and  milk  your  own  cow.&quot;  That  was  a  favorite  and  frequently  irrelevant  saying  of  his,  Seemuldoon,  meaning  the  dwelling  place  of  the  Muldoons,  was,  in  all  truth,  the  place  he  came  from,  and  not  Knockatatawn.  Nor  did  the  man  from  Lurgan-  boy  really  come  from  Lurganboy:  I  used  the  name  just  because  I  like  it,  and  when  people  ask  me  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  and  places  like  that  I  say  no,  I'll  go  to  Lurganboy.  Because  you  don't  go  to  Lurganboy,  you  find  your-  self  there  when  you  lose  the  road  going  somewhere  else. "