 b"THE  presiding  officer  noted  that  there  was  a  man  standing  outside  the  window  looking  in.  The  members  of  the  committee  looked  in  the  direction  of  the  window  and  found  that  the  presiding  officer's  observation  was  correct:  there  was  a  man  standing  outside  the  window  look-  ing  in.  Mr.  Macksey  moved  that  the  rec-  ord  take  note  of  the  fact.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  seconded.  'The  motion  passed.  Mrs.  Brown  wondered  if  someone  should  go  out  and  talk  to  the  man  standing  outside  the  window.  Mrs.  Mallory  suggested  that  the  committee  proceed  as  if  the  man  stand-  ing  outside  the  window  wasn't  there.  Maybe  he'd  go  away,  she  suggested.  Mr.  Macksey  said  that  that  was  an  excellent  idea  and  so  moved.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  wondered  if  the  matter  required  a  motion.  The  presiding  officer  ruled  that  the  man  standing  outside  the  window  look-  ing  in  did  not  require  a  motion.  Ellen  West  said  thatshe  was  fright,  ened.  Mr.  Birnbaum  said  there  was  noth-  ing  to  be  frightened  about.  Ellen  West  said  that  the  man  stand-  ing  outside  the  window  looked  larger  than  a  man  to  her.  Maybe  it  was  not  human,  she  said.  Mr.  Macksey  said  that  that  was  non-  sense  and  that  it  was  onlv  just  a  very  large  man,  probably.  The  presiding  officer  stated  that  the  committee  had  a  number  of  pressing  items  on  the  agenda  and  wondered  if  the  meeting  could  go  forward.  Not  with  that  thing  out  there,  Ellen  West  said.  The  presiding  officer  stated  that  the  next  order  of  business  was  the  matter  of  the  Worth  girl.  Mr.  Birnbaum  noted  that  the  Worth  girl  had  been  doing  very  well.  Mrs.  Brown  said  quite  a  bit  better  than  well,  in  her  opinion.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  said  that  the  im-  provement  was  quite  remarkable.  The  presiding  officer  noted  that  the  field  in  which  she,  the  Worth  girl,  was  working  was  a  very  abstruse  one  and,  moreover,  one  in  which  very  few  wom-  en  had  successfully  established  them-  selves.  Mrs.  Brown  said  that  she  had  known  the  girl's  mother  quite  well  and  that  she  had  been  an  extremely  pleasant  person.  Ellen  West  said  that  the  man  was  still  outside  the  window  and  hadn't  moved.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  said  that  there  was,  of  course,  the  possibility  that  the  Worth  girl  was  doing  too  well.  Mr.  Birnbaum  said  there  was  such  a  thing  as  too  much  too  soon.  Mr.  Percy  inquired  as  to  the  girl's  age  at  the  present  time  and  was  told  she  was  thirty-five.  He  then  said  that  that  didn't  sound  like  &quot;too  soon&quot;  to  him.  The  presiding  officer  asked  for  a  motion.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  moved  that  the  Worth  girl  be  hit  by  a  car.  Mr.  Birnbaum  seconded.  The  presiding  officer  asked  for  dis-  cussion.  Mrs.  Mallory  asked  if  Mr.  O'Dono-  ghue  meant  fatally.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  said  he  did.  Mr.  Percy  said  he  thought  that  a  fa-  tal  accident,  while  consonant  with  the  usual  procedures  of  the  committee,  was  always  less  interesting  than  something  that  left  the  person  alive,  so  that  the  person's  situation  was  still,  in  a  way,  Mr.  O'Donoghue  said  that  Mr.  Per-  cy's  well-known  liberalism  was  a  con-  stant  source  of  strength  and  encour-  agement  to  every  member  of  the  committee,  as  was  Mr.  Percy's  well-  known  predictability.  Mrs.  Mallory  said  wouldn't  it  look  like  the  committee  was  punishing  ex-  cellence?  Mr.  O'Donoghue  said  that  a  con-  cern  for  how  things  looked  was  not  and  should  never  bea  consideration  of  the  committee.  Ellen  West  said  thatshe  thought  the  man  standing  outside  the  window  look-  ing  in  was  listening.  She  reminded  the  committee  that  the  committee's  deliber-  ations  were  supposed  to  be  held  in  camera.  The  presiding  officer  said  that  the  man  could  not  hear  through  the  glass  of  the  window.  Ellen  West  said  was  he  sure?  The  presiding  officer  asked  if  Ellen  West  would  liketo  be  put  on  some  oth-  er  committee.  Ellen  West  said  that  she  only  felt  safe  on  this  committee.  The  presiding  officer  reminded  her  that  even  members  of  the  committee  were  subject  to  the  decisions  of  the  committee,  except  of  course  for  the  pre-  siding  officer.  Ellen  West  said  she  realized  that  and  would  like  to  move  that  the  Worth  girl  fall  in  love  with  somebody.  The  presiding  officer  said  that  there  was  already  a  motion  before  the  com-  " b"mittee  and  asked  if  the  committee  was  ready  for  a  vote.  The  committee  said  it  was.  The  motion  was  voted  on  and  failed,  14-4.  Ellen  West  moved  that  the  Worth  girl  fall  in  love  with  the  man  standing  outside  the  window.  Mr.  Macksey  said  you're  just  trying  to  get  him  inside  so  we  can  take  a  look  at  him.  Ellen  West  said  well,  why  not,  if  you're  so  sure  he's  harmless.  The  presiding  officer  said  that  he  felt  that  if  the  man  outside  were  invited  in-  side,  a  confusion  of  zones  would  result,  which  would  be  improper.  Mr.  Birnbaum  said  that  it  might  not  bea  bad  idea  if  the  committee  got  a  little  feedback  from  the  people  for  whom  it  was  responsible,  once  in  a  while.  Mrs.  Mallory  stated  that  she  thought  Mr.  Birnbaum's  idea  about  feedback  was  a  valuable  and  intelligent  one  but  that  she  didn't  approve  of  having  such  a  warm  and  beautiful  human  being  such  as  the  Worth  girl  fall  in  love  with  an  unknown  quantity  with  demonstra-  bly  peculiar  habits,  wide  the  window,  just  to  provide  feedback  to  the  com-  mittee.  Mrs.  Brown  repeated  that  she  had  known  the  Worth  girl's  mother.  Mr.  Macksey  asked  if  Ellen  West  intended  that  the  Worth  girl's  love  affair  be  a  happy  or  an  unhappy  one.  Ellen  West  said  she  would  not  wish  to  overdetermine  somebody  else's  love  affair.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  moved  that  the  Worth  girl  be  run  over  by  a  snowmo-  bile.  The  presiding  officer  said  that  as  O'Donoghue  was  out  of  order  and  also  that  in  his  judgment  Mr.  O'Donoghue  was  reintroducing  a  defeated  motion  in  disguised  form.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  said  that  he  could  introduce  new  motions  all  night  long,  if  he  so  chose.  Mrs.  Brown  said  that  she  had  to  be  home  by  ten  to  receive  a  long-distance  phone  call  from  her  daughter  in  Ore-  gon.  The  presiding  officer  said  that  as  there  was  no  second,  Ellen  West's  mo-  tion  about  the  man  outside  the  window  need  not  be  discussed  further.  He  sug-  gested  that  as  there  were  four  additional  cases  awaiting  disposition  by  the  com-  mittee  he  wondered  if  the  case  of  the  Worth  girl,  which  was  after  all  not  that  urgent,  might  not  be  tabled  until  the  next  meeting.  Mr.  Macksey  asked  what  were  the  additional  cases.  The  presiding  officer  said  those  of Dr.  Benjamin  Pierce,  Casey  McMan-  us,  Cynthia  Croneis,  and  Ralph  Lorant.  Mr.  Percy  said  that  those  were  not  very  interesting  names.  To  him.  Mr.  Macksey  moved  that  the  Worth  girl  be  tabled.  Mr.  Birnbaum  seconded.  The  motion  carried.  Mr.  BirnBaAUuM  asked  if  he  might  have  a  moment  for  a  general  ob-  servation  bearing  on  the  work  ofthe  committee.  The  presiding  officer  gra-  ciously  assented.  Mr.  Birnbaum  said  that  he  had  ob-  served,  in  the  ordinary  course  of  going  around  taking  careof  his  business  and  so  on,  that  there  were  not  many  preg-  nant  women  now.  He  said  that  yester-  day  he  had  seen  an  obviously  pregnant  woman  waiting  for  a  bus  and  had  re-  membered  that  in  the  last  half  year  he  had  seen  no  others.  He  said  he  won-  dered  why  this  was  and  whether  it  wasn't  within  the  purview  of  the  com-  mittee  that  there  be  more  pregnant  women,  for  the  general  good  of  the  community,  to  say  nothing  of  thefu-  ture.  Mrs.  Mallory  said  she  knew  why  it  was.  Mr.  Birnbaum  said  why?  and  Mrs,  Mallory  smiled  enigmatically.  Mr.  Birnbaum  repeated  his  question  and  Mrs.  Mallory  smiled  enigmatically  again.  Oh  me  oh  my,  said  Mr.  Birnbaum.  The  presiding  officer  said  that  Mr.  Birnbaum's  observations,  as  amplified  " b"in  a  sense  by  Mrs.  Mallory,  were  of  considerable  interest.  He  said  further  that  such  matters  were  a  legitimate  concern  of  the  com-  mittee  and  that  if  he  might  be  al-  lowed  to  speak  for  a  moment  not  as  the  presiding  officer  but  merely  as  an  ordinary  member  of  the  committee  he  would  urge,  strongly  urge,  that  Cyn-  thia  Croneis  become  pregnant  immedi-  ately  and  that  she  should  have  twin  boys.  Hear  hear,  said  Mr.  Macksey.  How  about  a  boy  and  a  girl?  asked  Ellen  West.  The  presiding  officer  said  that  would  be  O.K.  with  him.  This  was  moved,  seconded,  and  voted  unanimously.  On  Mr.  Macksey's  motion  it  was  decided  that  Dr.  Pierce  win  fifty  thou-  sand  dollars  in  the  lottery.  It  was  pointed  out  by  Mrs.  Brown  that  Dr.  Pierce  was  already  quite  well  fixed,  financially.  The  presiding  officer  reminded  the  members  that  justice  was  not  a  concern  of  the  committee.  On  Mr.  Percy's  motion  it  was  de-  cided  that  Casey  McManus  would  passthe  Graduate  Record  Examination  with  a  score  in  the  upper  ten  per  cent.  On  Mr.  O'Donoghue's  motion  it  was  decided  that  Ralph  Lorant  would  have  his  leg  brokenby  having  it  run  over  by  a  snowmobile.  Mr.  Birnbaum  looked  at  the  win-  dow  and  said  he's  still  out  there.  Mr.  O'Donoghue  said  for  God's  sake,  let's  have  him  in.  Mr.  Macksey  went  outside  and  asked  the  man  in.  The  man  hesitated  in  the  doorway  for  a  moment.  Mr.  Percy  said  come  in,  come  in,  don't  be  nervous.  The  presiding  officer  added  his  urg-  ings  to  Mr.  Percy's.  The  man  left  the  doorway  and  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  room.  The  presiding  officer  inquired  if  the  man  had,  perhaps,  a  grievance  he  wished  to  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  committee.  The  man  said  no,  no  grievance.  Why  then  was  he  standing  outside  the  window  looking  in?  Mr.  Macksey  asked.  The  man  said  something  about  just  wanting  to  &quot;be  with  somebody.&quot;  Mr.  Percy  asked  if  he  had  a  family,  and  the  man  said  no.  Are  you  from  around  here?  asked  Mrs.  Mallory,  and  the  man  shook  his  head.  Employed?  asked  Mr.  Birnbaum,  and  the  man  again  shook  his  head. He  wants  to  be  with  somebody,  Mrs.  Mallory  said.  Yes,  said  the  presiding  officer,  I  un-  derstand  that.  It's  not  unusual,  said  Mr.  Macksey.  Not  unusual  at  all,  said  Mrs.  Brown.  She  again  reminded  the  members  that  she  had  to  be  home  by  ten  to  receive  a  call  from  her  daughter  in  [REDACTED].  Maybe  we  should  make  him  a  mem-  ber  of  the  committee,  said  Mr.  Percy.  He  could  give  us  some  feedback,  said     -Epwarp  Mr.  Birnbaum.  I  mean,  I  would  as-  sume  that.  Ellen  West  moved  that  the  man  be  made  a  member  of  the  committee.  Mr.  Birnbaum  seconded.  The  motion  was  passed,  12-6.  Mr.  Percy  got  up  and  got  a  folding  chair  forthe  man  and  pulled  it  up  to  the  committee  table.  Theman  sat  down  in  the  chair  and  pulled  it  closer  to  the  table.  All  right,  he  said.  The  first  thing  we'll  do  is,  we'll  make  everybody  wear  overalls.  Gray  overalls.  Gray  overalls  with  gray  T-shirts.  We'll  have  morning  prayers,  evening  prayers,  and  lunch  prayers.  Calisthenics  for  everyone  over  the  age  of  four  in  the  5-7  P.M.  time  slot.  Gatherings  of  one  or  more  per-  sons  are  prohibited.  On  the  question  of  bedtime,  I  am  of  two  minds.  "