 b"THERE  was  a  time  when  the  I  spring  called  Barenton  was  the  most  renowned  thing  in  the  fairy  Kingdom  of  Broc\xc3\xa9liande-more  renowned  than  the  court,  than  any  of  its  queens,  than  Vivien  who  imprisoned  Merlin  in  her  spells;  more  renowned  and  better  thought  of.  Its  water  was  cold,  even  in  the  sweltering  days  of  late  summer.  It  had  never  been  known  to  freeze  over.  Winter  and  summer,  the  spring  jetted  in  a  quiet  twirl  of  sil-  ver  from  the  sandy  bottom  of  the  pool,  filled  it  always  to  the  same  level,  and  flowed  away  unseen  through  a  bed  of  reeds.  It  was  as  though  it  had  a  life  of  its  own,  apart  from  the  rest  of  the  world.  There  was  nothing  striking  about  it,  except  itself.  'The  peasant  women  who  resorted  to  it  sometimes  found  a  lady  there,  bathing  or  sitting  thoughtfully  beside  it.  She  was  tall,  stately  as  a  queen,  and  always  very  pleasant,  talking  to  them  in  the  patois.  It  was  as  if  she  too  had  a  life  of  her  own,  apart  from  the  world  of  Faery;  for  she  was  visible  to  any  mortal,  fa-  miliar  as  a  neighbor,  and  helpful  in  their  mortal  misfortunes.  But  as  time  went  on  and  religion  spread  through  the  district,  they  came  to  mistrust  her  and  beof  two  minds  about  her  charac-  ter;  when  they  resorted  to  the  spring,  they  did  so  secretly,  and  if  she  hap-  pened  to  be  there  they  crossed  them-  selves  and  drew  back.  And  so  by  de-  grees  it  became  a  sin  to  go  to  the  spring,  and  also  a  waste  of  time,  since  one  had  only  to  go  to  the  new  church  to  find  Our  Lady  of  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  and  the  stoup  of  holy  water,  with  no  sin  about  them  and  always  available.  Dando  the  Cosmographer,  the  Court  Archivist,  who  wrote  the  stand-  ard  work  on  Elfindom,  maintained  that  Barenton  was  coeval  with  the  stones  of  Carnac,  and  that  the  Kingdom  of  Bro-  c\xc3\xa9liande  was  formed  around  it,  prob-  ably  about  the  time  when  the  forest,  overthrown  by  the  Great  Gale,  had  put  up  enough  second  growth  to  afford  shelter  to  the  vagrant  tribe  of  Fairies,  or  Peris,  driven  out  of  Persia  by  the  magicians  Aaron  and  Moses.  He  held  that  the  first  settlement  consisted  of  simple  reed  huts  round  about  the  spring,  and  that  it  was  not  till  much  later  that  the  court  was  established  in  another  part  of  the  forest,  over  two  miles  away.  Be  this  as  it  may  (Dando's  conclusions  were  questioned  by  some  later  schol-  ars),  the  court  of  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  paid  a  respectful  lip  service  to  Barenton-  such  as  the  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Salis-  bury  might  pay  to  Stonchenge.  It  fig-  ured  in  sonnets  (ladies  as  pure,  and  even  colder).  Its  water  was  an  in-  gredient  in  the  famous  Eau  de  Broc\xc3\xa9-  liande,  till  it  was  superseded  by  a  dis-  tillation  of  Hamamelis.  A  ceremonial  picnic  took  place  beside  it  every  twen-  ty-five  years,  and  if  a  visitor  happened  to  beof  the  party  Queen  Melior  would  tell  the  legend  of  the  beautiful  lady  who  bathed  there  at  midnight  on  Mid-  summer  Eve-to  which  an  ambassador  from  the  Scottish  Kingdom  of  Elfhame  had  replied  by  telling  her  of  a  kraken  in  Loch  Ness.  Apart  from  these  polite  acknowledgments,  Barenton  fell  into  disestecm.  It  was  in  an  uncouth  part  of  the  forest,  all  midges  and  brambles,  and  had  regrettable  associations  with  poaching  mortals,  who  soused  their  scabby  children  in  it  and  threw  in  farthings  for  luck.  True,  it  was  a  very  long  time  since  any  poaching  had  gone  on;  only  peasants  desperate  for  fire-  wood  or  acorns  ventured  so  deep  into  the  forest.  But  its  reputation  was  dubi-  ous-not  to  speak  of  that  bathing  per-  son,  whoever  she  was.  Dando  had  no  doubt  who  she  was:  one  of  '  those  indigenous  fairies  of  Brittany,  contemporary  with  the  Nine  Maidens  of  miraculous  power  men-  tioned  by  Pomponius  Mela,  whom  common  speech  re-  ferred  to  as  &quot;the  Old  Lot.&quot;  Dando,  invisibly  frequent-  ing  alehouses  and  the  com-  pany  of  midwives,  learned  that  the  indigenous  fairies  were  still  remembered  by  mortals.  It  was  from  two  old  women  scalding  a  pig  that  he  heard  about  the  fairy  who  pulled  a  drown-  ing  boy  from  the  pool  of  Barenton  and  took  such  pity  on  him  that  she  fol-  lowed  him  into  the  mortal  world  to  be  his  nurse.  It  was  from  Dando,  grown  very  old  and  ram-  shackle,that  Beliard  heard  the  same  story  in  his  child-  hood,  and  he  was  immedi-  ately  seized  by  a  passionate  longing  to  be  nursed  by  a  fairy.  His  nurse  and  nurse-  maids  were  fairies;  his  mother,  Lady  Pervenche,  was  a  fairy  of  unblemished  lineage;  he  was  born  into  the  most  distinguished  of  Elfin  courts;  he  had  never  " b"seen  anything  but  fairies-  and  he  longed  with  childish  violence  to  be  nursed  by  a  fairy.  Now  he  was  grown  up,  unassuming  and  short-  sighted,  but  for  all  that  a  credit  to  his  upbringing.  He  had  an  intermittent  am-  bition  to  play  the  flageo-  let,  and  used  to  steal  off  to  the  pool  of  Barenton,  where  he  could  practice  un-  disturbed.  He  was  working  at  the  open-pipe  octave,  where  a  hoot  at  the  bottom  and  a  squeak  at  the  top  are  equal-  ly  hard  to  avoid,  when  he  heard  approaching  wings  and  saw  Puck,  the  old  whipper-in  of  the  royal  pack  of  werewolves,  and  four  stout  kennel  lads  carrying  buckets  alight  by  the  pool.  &quot;Sorry  to  disturb  Your  Lordship,  I'm  sure,&quot;  said  Puck  righteously.  &quot;And  if  it  had  been  tomorrow,  we  wouldn't  have.  But  today's  their  last  chance,  poor  crea-  tures!  Tomorrow,  it'll  be  worms.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  mean  the  pack  is  to  be  killed?&quot;  &quot;No.  He  wouldn't  do  that.  It  would  be  hurting  their  feelings.  And  he's  all  for  feelings,  is  My  Lord  Melilot.  But  he  thinks  it's  hard  on  the  lads  to  be  fetching  water  from  here,  so  the  drink-  ing  troughs  are  to  be  filled  from  the  rainwater  tank.  You  can't  drink  rain-  water  without  getting  worms,  that's  a  known  fact.  But  it's  no  part  of  my  place  to  know  better.  Time  will  prove,  that's  all.&quot;  They  flew  off.  The  ripples  slapped  against  the  bank,  slowed,  died  into  silence.  It  was  the  end  of  September.  The  reeds  were  changing  color,  and  they  whispered  more  harshly,  as  though  admonishing  him.  He  had  meant,  this  time,  to  work  at  his  flageolet  seriously,  to  practice  every  day,  to  master  the  chromatic  scale,  soar  into  the  upper  octave,  play  gavottes  and  airs  with  graces  instead  of  the  melancholy  little  tunes  within  the  compass  of  a  fifth,  which  had  been  all  he  could  manage  before.  But  the  reeds  were  turning  col-  or,  it  would  soon  be  too  cold  to  prac-  tice  by  the  pool,  and  he  had  not  done  half  as  well  as  he  had  intended.  As  he  was  a  bachelor,  he  still  shared  his  mother's  apartment.  This  made  in-  door  practicing  difficult.  When  he  had  gone  up  the  scale  without  a  hoot  or  a  squeak,  she  would  interrupt  him  with  a  &quot;Don't  go  on,  dear.  You'll  strain  your  heart,&quot;  or  ask  why  he  didn't  play  those  nice  little  tunes  he  used  to  play.  Lying-practice  had  made  him  nearly  perfect  at  that-he  would  explain  that  he  had  promised  to  attend  a  cockfight  or  play  a  match  with  So-and-So,  and  leave.  Picking  his  way  down  back  stairs,  skirting  the  tennis  courts,  he  would  walk  demurely  till  it  was  safe  to  run,  run  like  a  hunted  stag  till  he  came  to  the  pool,  recover  his  brea  th,  take  the  flageolet  out  of  its  velvet  sleeve,  and  begin  his  preliminary  ex-  ercises.  Do,  re,  mi,  fa,  s  ol,  la,  si,  DO.  Do,  mi,  la,  DO,  la,  mi,  do.  And  so  on,  a  degree  higher;  for  by  now  he  could  prac  tice  agility  most  of  the  way  up  the  scale.  The  silver  twirl  rose  through  the  stilly  water,  the  unchang-  ing  level  of  the  pool  flowed  away  through  the  reeds  and  sank  beneath  a  small  swamp.  And  Lady  Pervenche  would  glide  along  the  gallery  which  the  younger  members  of  the  court  called  &quot;the  Hen's  Parade,&quot;  to  visit  her  friend  Lady  Renoncule  (they  be-  longed  to  the  epoch  when  it  was  fash-  ionable  to  be  called  after  field  flowers),  to  declare  that  Renoncule's  Persis  grew  prettier  every  day,  to  drink  a  cup  of  chocolate,  and  to  conceal  her  sorrows:  for  as  she  hoped  to  make  a  match  be-  tween  Persis  and  Beliard  it  would  not  have  done  to  admit  how  much  it  dis-  tressed  her  to  see  Belfard  always  passed  over  when  there  was  a  court  appoint-  ment  going.  &quot;Have  you  heard  about  poor  old  Dando?  I  must  admit  I  had  almost  for-  gotten  he  was  still  alive.&quot;  Dando  the  Cosmographer  was  dy-  ing.  He  had  been  brought  down  from  his  gar  ret  and  laid  in  the  State  Death  Bed,  amid  black  curtains  and  under  a  black  tester.  His  mind  was  decayed,  but  he  was  conscious  and  complained  that  the  mattress  was  lumpy.  His  feet  were  rubbed,  his  beard  combed,  he  was  giv-  en  stren  gthening  soups,  and  for  a time  he  rallied  and  talked  in  a  wandering  way  about  things  long  past  and  forgot-  ten.  On  ce,  he  called  for  a  secretary,  as  he  wished  to  have  an  annotati  on  set  down.  But  he  was  far  away  from  the  cares  of  this  world,  for  when  the  Queen's  Justice  Clerk  arrived  with  two  witnesses  and  suggested  he  might  like  to  make  his  will,  he  replied  there  wasn't  enough  to  trouble  about.  A  couple  of  days  before  his  end,  he  was  heard  to  chuckle  and  sigh  and  repeat  snatches  of  ballads  learned  in  his  alehouse  days.  A  coughing  fit  nearly  finished  him,  but  he  got  the  better  of  it  and  began  to  clamor  about  a  boy:  he  wanted  to  see  the  boy.  He  became  so  insistent  that  they  eventually  asked  him  which  bov.  The  boy  who  wanted  to  be  nursed  by  a  fairy,  he  said.  It  was  plain  he  had  some  mortal  boy  in  mind,  and  this  made  it  even  more  impossible  to  oblige  " b"him.  &quot;Be-li-ard!&quot;  he  shout  ed.  It  was  like  the  angry  bellow  of  a  ram.  Beliard  was  fet  ched  to  the  bedside,  Dando's  glance  wandered  up  him  from  a  boy's  height  to  a  man  's.  &quot;Did  you  g  et  her?&quot;  he  asked.  Beliard  shoo  k  his  head.  &quot;  None  le  ft,  none  left,&quot;  said  Dando,  an  d  an  attendant,  thinking  he  spoke  of  his  empty  bowl,  came  up  with  more  soup.  The  funeral  was  superb.  Music,  spe-  cially  composed  in  the  antique  style,  was  performed,  and  several  paneg  yric  s  were  spoken.  Of  these,  the  most  eloquent  came  from  the  Archivist  of  a  Kingdom  in  [REDACTED],  so  small  an  d  unimportant  that  it  had  not  been  notif  ied;  but  he  had  somehow  heard  the  news  and  trav-  elled  t  o  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  to  praise  Dando,  above  all  for  his  compelling  hypothesis  of  the  Great  Gale.  Y  the  time  all  this  was  over,  it  had  grown  too  cold  to  practice  by  the  pool  of  Barenton.  Beliard  put  away  his  fageolet  and  settled  down  to  the  cus-  tomary  gaieties.  It  was  an  implacably  hard  winter.  There  were  skating  par-  ties  on  the  ornamental  moat,  with  bra-  ziers  set  at  intervals  along  it.  Lady  Per-  venche's  ankles  did  nout  allow  her  to  skate,  but  as  she  was  young  at  heart  she  sat  in  an  ice  sleigh  and  was  pushed  by  Beliard.  Persis,  she  thought,  could  not  fail  to  observe  how  strong  he  was,  and  how  kindhearted:  such  a  husband  is  a  treasure  for  centuries.  ObservingBe-  liard's  kindheartedness,  Melilot  skated  up  to  them  to  suggest  he  should  have  the  pleasure  of  pushing  the  sleigh  for  a  few  rounds.  Beliard,  who  was  more  out  of  breath  than  any  scale  passage  could  have  left  him,  was  ready  to  accept,  but  Lady  Pervenche  cried  out,  &quot;No,  thank  you,  no,  thank  you!  You  are  really  too  kind.  But  you  have  other  duties,  you  know.&quot;  She  had  known  Melilot  to  be  a  scheming  interloper  ever  since  his  appointment  to  the  Mastership  of  the  Werewolves,  a  post  she  had  designed  for  Beliard.  Melilot  smiled,  bowed,  hoped  for  another  time,  and  skated  away.  At  the  assembly  that  evening,  Be-  liard  detached  himself  from  watching  the  cardplayers  to  make  some  atonement.  Melilot  bore  no  malice.  His  wish  to  please  everybody  extended  into  a  belief  that  everybody  was  pleasing.  When  Be-  liard  asked  how  the  pack  were  doing,  he  said  how  grateful  they  were  for  an  is-  sue  of  blankets.  &quot;Splendid  fellows!  You  should  have  seen  how  they  snatched  at  them.&quot;  Blankets  were  not  his  only  innovation.  He  had  begun  to  add  vege-  tables  to  their  diet.  After  a  spell  of  car-  rots  they  looked  much  glossier-or  so  it  seemed  to  him.  If  Beliard  could  spare  time  to  look  in  at  a  morning  feed-  Beliard  woke  the  next  morning  with  the  agreeable  thought  of  having  some-  thing  to  do.  As  he  neared  the  ken-  nels  he  heard  hammerings:  they  were  breaking  the  ice  on  the  rainwater  tank.  He  remembered  Dando's  statement  that  the  pool  of  Barenton  never  froze.  Dando  had  some  scientific  explanation  of  why  this  was  so,  which  Beliard  could  not  remember.  He  had  not  read  the  Cosmography  very  attentively.  He  de-  cided  that  after  doing  the  polite  at  the  kennels  he  would  walk  on  and  see  for  himself.  The  snow  was  speckled  with  dead  birds.  They  were  so  weightless  with  starvation  that  they  lay  on  its  surface  like  decorations  on  a  pudding,  The  sky  was  lead-colored;  the  dull  dazzle  of  snow  wrenched  at  his  shortsighted  eves.  A  shinier  patch  of  snow,  trodden  down  into  ice,  and  a  few  trampled  wisps  of  hay  showed  where  fodder  had  been  put  out  forthe  deer.  The  pool  lay  before  him,  black  and  alarming.  He  felt  his  heart  jolt.  An  old  woman  was  crouched  beside  it.  The  hood  of  her  peasant's  cloak  had  fallen  sews  -W.  S.  aside;  he  could  see  her  grizzled  hair,  and  the  cadaverous  face  she  bent  over  the  water.  It  was  because  she  was  so  unexpected  that  he  had  been  fright-  ened.  But  his  fright  kept  him  motion-  less,  staring  at  the  blotch  of  darkness  she  made,  After  a  while  she  scrambled  to  her  feet  and  made  off  through  the  reeds  and  was  gone.  In  his  fright  he  bad  almost  forgotten  his  reason  for  be-  ing  there.  He  went  forward  to  the  pool,  and  saw  that  the  water  was  un-  frozen,  the  spring  twirling  up  as  usual.  Thus  looked  down  into,  the  pool  did  not  seem  dark  and  alarming  at  all;  the  sandy  bottom  gave  it  an  appearance  of  being  sunlit.  And  the  old  woman  was  nothing  to  be  alarmed  by.  The  frost  was  everywhere,  a  stranglehold  on  mortals,  on  cattle  licking  snow  with  parched  tongues.  She  had  known  in  her  old  woman's  memory  that  the  pool  of  Barenton  never  froze,  and  had  come  with  her  pitcher,  defying  regulations,  chancing  the  poacher's  death  on  the  gallows,  to  fetch  water.  All  the  same,  she  had  given  him  a  fright.  He  returned  to  the  palace  to  be  told  what  he  had  missed  :the  Queen  had  been  reading  aloud  from  the  Cosmography.  The  expense  of  the  funeral  had  not  been  in  vain.  Dando  was  rediscovered  as  a  classic.  His  accounts  of  other  " b' Kingdoms  were  most  entertaining,  his  theories  ingenious,  his  solemn  language  a  delight.  Books  Three  and  Four,  &quot;Of  Broc\xc3\xa9liande&quot;  and  &quot;Of  Customs,&quot;  were  indisputably  Dando  at  his  best,  Who  could  have  believed  that  the  quiet  old  man,  so  retiring  in  his  habits,  so  shabby  in  his  apparel,  was-here  opinions  di-  verged,  some  saying,  &quot;Such  a  man  of  the  world,&quot;  others,  &quot;Such  a  master  of  the  occult.&quot;  The  readings  continued.  There  was  talk  of  an  abridged  Cos-  mography-with  some  of  the  scandals,  some  of  the  Druidical  bits  left  out-for  children.  Only  the  Directors  of  Piety  held  aloof.  Dando  should  certainly  not  be  abridged  for  children:  his  sources  were  dubious,  his  opinions  those  of  an  atheist.  Nowhere  in  Book  Three  was  there  a  word  about  Afrits-malign  spirits  peculiar  to  the  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  dy-  nasty,  whose  malevolence  could  only  be  warded  off  by  the  intervention  of  the  Directors  of  Piety.  During  all  this,  Beliard  said  nothing  of  his  familiarity  with  the  pool  of  Bar-  enton;  he  wanted  to  keep  it  for  his  flageolet.  The  snow  was  still  lying,  the  kennel  lads  hammering,  when  he  visit-  ed  it  again.  He  had  half  an  idea  the  old  crone  might  still  be  drawing  water  from  it.  She  was  not  there.  It  was  nat-  ural  to  suppose  that  she  was  dead.  He  had  taken  his  flageolet  with  him,  and  with  freezing  fingers  he  played  a  little  tune,  just  to  hear  what  it  sounded  like  in  that  icy,  dying  world.  A  week  before  the  Spring  Cere-  mony,  there  was  a  sudden  thaw.  He  ' b"went  to  the  pool  two  days  running,  and  each  time  she  was  there,  He  had  not  the  courage  to  approach  her.  He  did  not  know  what  to  think.  Dando  would  have  known.  But  he  was  glad  that  Dando  was  spared  from  knowing.  It  would  have  grieved  him  to  know  that  the  benign,  stately  lady  who  bathed  there,  sat  musing  on  the  bank,  talked  like  a  neighbor  to  the  peasant  women,  had  shrunken  into  this  pitiable  old  crone.  HE  Spring  Ceremony  took  place  in  a  violent  hailstorm.  The  day  after,  it  was  warm  as  summer  and  the  Directors  of  Piety  emerged  like  tor-  toises  and  basked  in  justification.  The  Afrits  had  struck-Melilot  had  been  killed  by  the  werewolves.  He  had  gone  into  their  enclosure  to  distribute  some  tidbits,  and  stumbled  over  a  bone.  Inan  instant  they  rushed  on  him,  pulled  him  down,  and  tore  him  to  pieces.  The  court  went  into  mourning,  the  Direc-  tors  of  Piety  imposed  a  general  fast,  the  opening  of  the  hunting  season  was  post-  poned,  the  Cosmography  was  put  on  the  Index,  Puck  was  sacked.  In  the  storm  of  controversy  over  the  future  of  the  werewolves,  various  positions  were  put  forward:  They  were  a  traditional  glory;  they  were  quite  out  of  date;  no  one  wanted  them;  they  were  the  envy  of  every  other  court.  Melior  seemed  to  incline  to  the  traditionalists;  then,  for  she  prided  herself  on  her  spontaneity,  passed  the  death  sentence.  They  were  hanged.  With  history  being  made  at  such  a  rate,  it  was  easy  for  Beliard  to  slink  offto  the  pool.  As  an  excuse  to  himself,  and  an  insurance  against  the  disappoint-  ment  he  would  feel  if  the  old  woman  were  not  there,  he  took  his  flageolet.  Once,  when  he  was  practicing,  she  passed  behind  him  and  sat  down  in  her  usual  place.  He  wanted  to  speak  to  her-some  noncommittal  remark  about  the  beauty  of  the  morning-but  he  was  afraid  to.  For  all  he  knew,  he  was  in-  visible  to  her:  her  survival  (he  was  con-  vinced  by  now  she  was  a  survival)  hung  on  so  delicate  athread  that  the  smallest  shock  might  blow  her  away.  And  that  would  be  a  cruel  deed:  if  she  were  so  faithful  to  the  pool,  she  must  love  it  a  great  deal.  He  looked  at  her  as  little  as  possible:  a  direct  glance  might  fall  on  her  like  a  blow.  In  the  light  of  spring,  herage  was  more  ap-  parent,  and  her  ugliness.  It  was  not  a  solemn  ugliness:  it  was  grotesque,a  clay  likeness  of  afrog.  When  she  was  not  there  he  felt  a  dull  bereavement,  like  a  bruise.  It  was  ironical  that  at  this  time  he  should  hear  so  many  evocations  of  her  at  court.  With  the  Cosmography on  the  Index,  not  to  admire  Dando  was  dowdy.  Barenton  again  figured  in  son-  nets,  but  now-for  fashions  change-  as  the  water  of  youth  where  the  poet's  mistress  had  been  immersed,  where  immersion  would  be  superfluous.  Book  Four,  &quot;Of  Customs,&quot;  governed  taste.  Round  dances  ousted  cotillions,  mono-  liths  were  a  passion.  Melior  was  impor-  tuned  to  revive  the  custom  of  bathing  in  Barenton,  and  the  Court  Architect  designed  a  lighttent.  Beliard  did  not  feel  his  tenancy  menaced.  He  knew  that  the  more  a  project  is  talked  of  the  less  likely  itis  to  take  place.  Mean-  while  he  had  found  a  new  way  to  prac-  tice  undisturbed,  by  hiding  in  the  laurels  and  serenading  Persis.  His  heart  was  cold,  his  feelings  engaged  elsewhere,  and  he  probably  played  the  better  for  this.  One  night  it  occurred  to  him  to  leave  his  hiding  place  and  to  play  by  the  pool.  Persis  had  opened  her  case-  ment  and  said  something  about  night-  ingales-but  he  stole  away  and  fol-  lowed  the  path,  which  was  now  so  familiar  and  in  its  hoarfrost  of  moon-  light  curiously  strange  and  peopled  by  mysterious  shadows.  She  was  there-a  darker  blotch  of  darkness  in  the  moonlight  than  ever  by  day.  The  impersonality  of  moonlight  made  him  bold.  He  walked  up  to  her,  stopped  beside  her.  She  was  staring  down  at  what  he  took  to  be  the  reflec-  tion  of  the  moon  in  the  water.  But  it  was  not  the  moon.  It  was  her  own  reflected  face  she  was  staring  at:  a  smooth,  calm,  youthful  face,  with  faint-  ly  smiling  lips.  He  felt  no  astonishment,  no  awe.  He  felt  at  ease  and  profoundly  con-  tented,  as  though  he  had  come  to  the  end  of  a  journey  and  was  looking  down  into  the  valley  which  was  his  birthplace.  The  dawn  wind  brushed  the  reed  bed,  he  heard  her  breathe  a  slow,  contented  sigh;  she  got  up,  gave  herself  a  little  shake,  and  hobbled  away.  The  sun  had  risen,  the  dragonflies  were  hawking  over  the  pool,  the  midges  swarming  round  him,  before  he  walked  back  through  the  awakened  forest.  It  was  as  though  he  had  won  some  transcendental  bet-a  bet  against  all  odds.  She  was  one  of  the  Old  Lot,  per-  sistent  as  the  little  twirl  of  the  spring,  indigenously  young.  Her  disguise  of  old  age  was  as  trifling  as  a  cobweb.  He  was  so  sure  he  had  seen  her  that  he  was  sure  he  would  see  her  again,  her  true  likeness,  her  self  smiling  at  her-  self  in  the  pool,  How  would  it  be  by  daylight?  Did  she,  did  he  need  the  moon?  By  now  copies  of  the  forbidden  Book  Three  and  Book  Four  were  " b"passing  from  hand  to  hand,  vanishing  up  cuffs  or  into  bodices,  He  borrowed  a  copy  of  Book  Three  and  read  it  attentively.  There  was  no  particular  mention  of  moonlight.  Moonlight  came  in  later,  with  the  Druids.  And  why  should  moonlight  be  needed?  If  she  had  bathed  only  by  moonlight,  Dando  would  have  said  so.  He  went  early  to  bed  that  night,  and  fell  asleep  in  a  trance  of  trust.  A  dream  stabbed  him  awake.  In  the  dream,  the  Court  Architect  ex-  hibited  a  small  straw  hat,  saying  it  was  the  Queen's  bathing  tent.  He  woke  in  a  panic.  If  that  bathing  scheme  came  to  anything,  she  might  be  driven  away,  affronted  by  the  invasion  of  her  soli-  tude.  He  would  never  see  her  again.  It  was  late;  he  had  overslept.  The  Hens  were  rushing  up  and  down  their  Parade,  calling  for  daisy  chains.  In  the  Morning  Saloon,  the  program  for  the  day  was  being  read  out.  The  Queen  with  her  ladies,  pastorally  dressed,  would  be  carried  to  Barenton  in  litters.  The  bathing  tent  would  be  set  up  near  the  pool.  The  litter  bearers  and  tent  peggers  would  wait  at  a  distance.  Her  Majesty,  assisted  by  her  ladies,  would  disrobe  and  enter  the  pool  at  noon  pre-  cisely,  wearing  a  gossamer  shift  and  protected  by  a  Chinese  parasol.  The Queen  would  bathe  in  the  pool  for  five  minutes.  Bath  towels,  warmed,  would  be  in  readiness.  After  she  had  reposed,  there  would  be  a  light  collation  and  the  party  would  start  back,  reaching  the  palace  at  3  P.M.  The  program  had  been  decided  on  overnight,  at  the  last  moment,  but  it  was  hoped  that  all  would  go  smoothly.  &quot;You'll  be  eaten  alive  by  midges!&quot;  he  shouted.  Melior  turned  and  beck-  oned  him  toward  her.  &quot;Are  they  aw-  ful?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Swarms  of  them,&quot;  said  he.  &quot;And  frogs?  Are  there  many  frogs?  I'm  terrified  of  frogs.&quot;  If  he  had  kept  his  wits  about  him,  he  could  have  made  as  many  frogs  as  midges  and  the  bathing  party  might  have  been  cancelled.  It  was  a  fatal  omission.  Melior  was  so  amazed  that  anyone  in  court  could  consider  her  welfare  be-  fore  his  own  that  she  kept  him  in  con-  versation  for  some  while  after;  and  when  she  had  thanked  and  dismissed  him,  and  ordered  that  every  member  of  the  party  should  be  sprayed  with  oil  of  verbena  and  the  Court  Physician  be  in  attendance,  and  made  a  mental  note  to  find  some  post  for  her  honest  man,  Be-  liard  was  so  buttonholed,  questioned,  and  congratulated  that  he  despaired  of  getting  away  in  time.  But  he  was  in  time-she  was  there. And  moonlight  was  not  essential;  the  pool  re-  flected  her  daytime  face,  which  was  slightly  more  rounded  and  mature.  She  seemed  to  listen  to  him  as  he  poured  out  the  news  of  the  bathing  par-  ty,  the  invasion  of  her  privacy,  his  inability  to  protect  her.  But  how  could  he  tell  if  she  real-  ly  were  listening?  That  momentary  pucker  on  her  brow  might  just  as  well  havebeen  a  tremor  on  the  surface  of  the  pool.  It  would  only  be  for  a  few  hours,  he  as-  sured  her.  By  the  eve-  ning,  all  would  be  as  it  had  been.  &quot;Beliard,  dear!  What  are  you  thinking  of?  You  mustn't  be  here.  The  Queen  will  arrive  at  any  moment.&quot;  He  heard  the  violins  strike  up,  a  clatter  of  voices,  his  mother's  skirts  catching  on  the  grass  as  she  hurried  to  take  her  place  with  the  rest.  He  cast  himself  down  head-  long  to  kiss  the  face  in  the  water.  It  vanished  under  his  lips.  The  ripples  darted  up  the  bank,  his  mouth  was  full  of  grit,  he  felt  the  water  evading  him,  deserting  him.  The  reeds  heeled  over  in  the  vehement  current  as  the  pool  of  Barenton  drained  away.  When  the  pages  unrolled  the  carpet  from  the  bathing  tent  to  the  rim  of  the  pool,  they  saw  Beliard  lying  face  down  on  the  wet  sand,  his  hand  clutching  the  last  trickle  of  water  from  the  spring.  The  carpet  was  rolled  up,  the  tent  dismantled,  the  litters  filled  higgledy-  piggledy,  no  precedence  observed.  Mc-  lior  sat  behind  closed  curtains,  her  gloves  half  buttoned,  her  mind  in  bitter  disarray.  Only  that  morning  had  she  found  an  honest,  disinterested  courtier.  He  was  not  dead;  the  Court  Physician  had  revived  him  and  diagnosed  his  mal-  ady.  But  he  could  never  be  given  a  post  of  confidence.  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  would  not  accept  a  Minister  with  epilepsy. "