 b"BEHIND  my  mother  I  see  the  ocean,  the  only  one  I  knew  when  I  was  little-the  Coney  Is-  land  ocean.  Behind  that,  nothing,  as  if  the  world  were  flat.  In  front  of  her  I  see  a  kitchen  sink,  a  coal  stove,  the  New  York  Jewish  Daily  Forward,  with  its  oppressive,  heavy  black  letters.  The  bare-board  kitchen  floor,  flooded  with  sudsy  water,  is  also  a  sea.  She  scrubs  on  her  hands  and  knees,  with  a  wooden-backed  brush,  while  I  ride  the  waves,  my  boat  the  unevenly  balanced  kitchen  table.  Outside  the  window,  a  monster  rattles  by.  I  transform  the  Myrtle  Avenue  Elevated  into  the  terri-  fying  noise  and  flash  of  the  famous  storm  of  her  crossing  to  [REDACTED]  on  her  voyage  from  nowhere  to  the  here  where  I  am  born  to  give  her  substance.  I  am  the  only  one  of  her  children  de-  livered  by  a  doctor  in  a  hospital,  St.  Anne's  in  [REDACTED],  and  I  am  named  Anne  in  gratitude  for  the  skill  that  saved  my  four-pound  life.  She  worries  that  the  name  is  too  goyish,  and  changes  it  to  Anna,  which  becomes  Hannah  in  the  sighing  speech  that  sends  her  vowels  airborne  and,  with  the  inevitable  diminutive  endearment,  ends  as  Hannahle.  I  will  laboriously  lead  it  back  from  Hannahle  to  Hannah  to  Anna  to  Anne,  but  on  the  kitchen  table  I  am  Hannahle,  and  though  her  name  has  undergone  a  sea  change  from  Fei-  gele  to  Fanny  to  Fay,  I  know  her  only  as  Mama.  I  make  the  effort  to  unroll  her  life  backward  across  that  flat  ocean  to  the  real  places  she  really  inhabited-to  the  [REDACTED]  slum  where  she  worked  and  married  and  had  her  first  children,  and  beyond  that  to  the  village  in  [REDACTED]  where  she  was  born  and  grew  up.  The  spare  bits  of  information  make  a  stilted  history,  which  I  recon-  struct  painstakingly  into  a  sampler  of  my  mother's  early  life.  When  she  was  a  little  girl,  she  saw  gold  shining  in  the  distance  beyond  her  village  and  pleaded  with  her  father  to  help  her  col-  lect  the  fortune  that  would  make  them  rich.  Her  fa-  ther  took  her  hand  and  walked  with  her  across  a  rutted,  frozen  road  to  show  her  the  late-winte!  setting  sun  and  how  the  gold  was  fading  from  the  windows  of  the  houses  in  the  neighboring  village,  &quot;My  father  was  a  saint,&quot;  she  told  me.  I  embroider  the  grandfather  I  have  never  seen  in  golden  thread  and  give  him  her  heavy-lidded,  deep-set  brown  eyes  flecked  with  gold.  Make  it  pretty.  Why  not?  I  can  in-  vent  any  background  I  please-527573736961n  intellectual,  rich  peasant,  colorful  poor,  &quot;Fiddler  on  the  Roof&quot;  musical  com-  edy.  There  are  no  hard  facts,  no  place-  names,  no  records,  no  towns,  not  a  clue  to  pursue.  She  claimed  to  have  been  a  singing  teacher  in  [REDACTED]-a  lie  so  transpar-  ent  that  it  was  remarkable  on  my  part  to  have  believed  it  until  I  was  quite  grown  up.  Her  repertory  of  songs,  picked  up  from  English  working-girl  friends,  was  sung  in  a  small,  true,  sweet  voice,  tinged  with  the  rowdy  mockery  of  the  music  hall.  &quot;Jesus  loves  me,  yes  I  know.  Because  the  Bible  tells  me  so.&quot;  &quot;'There  was  Brown,  upside  down,  knocking  all  the  whiskey  on  the  floor.&quot;  &quot;Mother,  dear,  oh  did  you  hear  the  news  that's  going  'round?  I'm  afraid  to  go  home  in  the  dark,&quot;  followed  by  gruesome  tales  of  Jack  the  Ripper.  And  from  another  part  of  her  life  a  Yid-  dish  song  about  the  red  flag,  the  red  flag,  drenched  with  the  blood  of  the  workingman,  set,  to  my  adolescent  snobbish  astonishment,  to  a  Beethoven  theme.  She  left  her  parents  when  she  was  sixteen.  She  ran  from  a  traditional  mar-  riage  to  a  local  boy,  butnot  because  of  the  boy.  She  liked  her  curly  brown  hair.  It  was  too  terrifying,  having  to  shear  it  off.  Bad  enough  to  have  seen  her  sister  transformed  overnight  into  an  old  woman  in  a  black  wig  with  a  part  made  of  seamed  yellow  cloth.  She was  smuggled  across  the  border  in  a  wagon  filled  with  bales  of  hay.  There  were  openings  to  breathe  through,  but  she  was  sure  that  she  would  suffocate.  In  [REDACTED],  she  spent  long  days  in  a  basement  workshop  and  the  short  eve-  nings  crying  into  a  towel  so  as  not  to  be  heard  by  her  aunt  and  uncle  and  their  two  children  and  the  boarder  from  the  old  village.  She  hinted  at  a  sad  love  affair  with  a  violinist  before  she  met  Papa.  Anoth-  er  lie?  I  see  her  in  the  crumpled  shirt,  waist  of  the  working  girl.  The  long  black  skirt  outlines  her  graceful  figure  and  delicate  waist.  She  is  on  a  crowded  [REDACTED]  street,  at  an  omnibus  stop,  threatening  and  pleading  with  a  young  man  in  her  shrill  peasant  voice.  He  is  deserting  her  for  another.  He  is  a  small,  dark,  neat  man  with  a  little  mustache:  He  carries  a  violin  case.  He  answers  her  in  short  bursts  of  passionate  self-de-  fense.  They  are  quarrelling  in  Yiddish.  She  turns  on  the  English  people  stand-  ing  about  and  watching  the  spectacle,  scolding  in  her  Yiddish-accented  Cock-  ney  speech:  &quot;Who  are  you  looking  at!?  Monkeys  in  a  zoo?  You  think  my  mis-  ery  is  a  penny  show?&quot;  In  their  wedding  photograph,  she  is  still  pert,  young,  tiny-waisted,  though  ten  years  older  than  my  straight-  backed,  tall,  smooth-faced  father.  She  had  gone  to  [REDACTED]  during  the  Exposi-  tion  at  the  turn  of  the  century  to  find  better-paying  work  and  found  my  fa-  ther,  a  fellow  operator  on  furs.  OF  herseven  children-two  born  in  [REDACTED],  one  conceived  there  and  carried  across  the  stormy  sea  to  be  born  in  [REDACTED],  and  the  rest  born  here-I  was  the  last  of  the  lot.  She  was  then  in  her  forties.  She  didn't  want  me  and  tried  to  get  rid  of  me,  but  I  stuck,  draining  the  last  drops  of  warmth  and  calcium.  She  had  no  time  and  place  for  me.  She  carried  me  in  a  bushel  basket  from  the  top  floor  of  the  tenement  where  we  lived  in  [REDACTED]  to  my  father's  grocery store,  a  few  blocks  away.  She  relieved  him  while  he  napped  and  ate  his  meals,  &quot;You  don't  remember  that,&quot;  my  sister  Jenny  says.  &quot;Come  on,  Anna.  You  can't  possibly  re-  member  that.&quot;  I  see  my  mother  at  the  kitchen  sink  scrub-     " b"bing  a  pot.  She  has  wedged  the  pot  against  the  cold-water  faucet,  and  she  is  scouring  with  her  left  hand  because  the  right  arm  is  broken,  immobilized  in  a  splint  and  a  sling.  She  begins  to  sob  and  to  smash  the  pot  against  the  faucet,  and  when  she  has  complete-  ly  smashed  the  pot  she  stops  crying  and  laughs.  That  must  have  been  just  before  her  two-week  nervous  breakdown.  The  doctor  ordered  a  rest  in  the  country  as  a  cure.  Only  my  brother  Barry  and  my  sister  Shana  and  I  shared  that  first  556e6974656420537461746573n  holiday  with  her.  We  went  to  a  Jewish  farmer  in  [REDACTED].  I  thought  of  her  as  so  totally  ignorant  that  I  didn't  know  what  to  make  of  her  expert  knowledge  of  the  woods.  She  wandered  about,  digging,  picking,  sniffing,  rubbing  between  her  fingers,  tasting,  rejecting.  She  gathered  mush-  rooms,  sour  grass,  berries,  roots,  and  leaves  and  returned  to  the  room  rented  with  cooking  privileges  carrying  treas-  ures  for  preparation  into  dishes  I  wouldn't  touch.  She  milked  the  cow  and  drank  the  warm,  frothy,  disgusting  milk  fresh  from  the  udders.  She  cured  the  farmer's  dog  of  an  infection,  and  he  adopted  her  and  slept  outside  our  room  every  night.  I  could  hear  him  panting  his  love  through  the  space  un-  der  the  warped  wooden  door.  She  found  a  waterfall  and  brought  soap  and  towels  to  wash  our  hair  under  the  cold,  delicious  spray,  and  when  we  were  dry  sent  us  ahead  to  the  farm-  house  to  be  freeto  undress  and  wash  herself.  Some  teasing  from  my  brother  and  sister  made  me  run  back  toher.  I  saw  silky  nakedness  and  rounded  but-  tocks  splashed  with  the  brilliant  water  of  the  falls  in  a  half-lit,  sprinkled  sun-  shine.  It  was  mystifying  to  recognize  beauty  in  my  harassed  old  mother.  I  ran  off  at  once,  afraid  to  face  her  with  my  blazing  new  knowledge.  She  wasn't  my  dream  parent.  I  would  have  given  her  up  fora  mother  who  could  read  and  write  English.  I  dreaded  her  coming  to  Open  School  Week,  but  she  looked  quite  distin-  guished  in  a  dark-blue  suit,  only  a  tiny  edge  of  her  curly  gray  hair  showing  from  under  a  blue  felt  hat  borrowed  from  my  aunt  in  millinery,  and  was  introduced  without  embarrassment  to  me  as  Anna's  mother,  Mrs.  Goddard.  I  showed  off  like  mad,  answering  ev-  ery  question  the  teacher  allowed  me  to,  drunk  with  relief.  Still,  I  despaired  of  her  understanding  how  smart  I  was.  What  did  she  know  about  fractions  or  the  Boston  Tea  Party?  What  did  she  know  about  [REDACTED],  about  being  556e6974656420537461746573n,  about  my  struggle  to  swim  in  this  dangerous  sea  without  markers  or  channels?  There  was  no  path  from  her  past  to  my  future.  We  were  caught,  she  and  I,  in  a  misunderstand-  ing.  She  was  a  source  of  shame  to  me,  and  not  to  be  forgiven.  She  had  been  born  in  another  country.  She  had  come  here  from  someplace  else.  She  was  a  greenhorn.  I  had  to  squirm  away  from  her  and  dig  in  my  toes  where  I  could  stand.  Remember,  I  told  myself,  re-  member,  you  mustn't  be  like  her.  I  wasn't  pleased  that  she  cried  while  her  daughter  answered  questions  zing,  zing,  zing,  one  after  the  other,  ab-  solutely  correctly.  I  saw  her  take  a  snowy,  holiday-white  handkerchief  out  of  her  pocket  and  wipe  her  eyes.  That  wasn't  what  she  should  have  been  do-  ing.  She  should  have  been  watching  me  with  a  slightly  sour  look,  the  way  Adele  Falkenburg's  mother  eyed  Adele.  Not  enough.  Not  good  enough.  That  was  the  way  Jewish  mothers  who  could  read  and  write  English  responded  to  their  clever  daughters.  At  least,  she  found  my  friends  not  good  enough.  &quot;I  don't  give  two  cents  for  Mrs.  Fancy  Stuck-Up  Falkenburg,&quot;  she  said,  but  she  stayed  up  nights  sew-  ing  me  a  new  dress  for  Adele's  birth-  day  party.  It  was  made  of  white  filmy  stuff  and  had  a  plain  round  neck  and  long  fitted  sleeves.  All  its  decoration  was  in  the  overskirt  of  attached  lace-  edged  handkerchiefs  and  in  its  soft  velvet  sash.  I  earned  high  honors  at  the  party  for  my  beautifully  worked  dress  and  my  beautiful  hair  and  my  beautiful  manners.  So  my  sister  was  told  when  she  came  to  pick  me  up,  right  on  time,  the  first  to  arrive  to  take  a  child  home.  The  afternoon  had  been  a  triumph  for  my  family.  I  was  the  only  schoolmate  " b"invited  who  came  from  our  side  of  Fort  Greene  Park-the  slum  side.  I  came  home  sick.  My  mother  held  my  head  asI  retched  into  a  pail.  She  blamed  my  illness  on  the  rich  food  of  the  party,  but  I  hadn't  eaten  anything.  I  didn't  dare.  My  body  had  threatened  betrayals  at  every  attempted  move:  I  would  spill,  break,  slip,  fall,  scream,  burst  into  tears.  The  dining  room  was  unimaginably  grand,  with  a  crystal  chandelier  from  whose  brilliance  swirls  of  twisted  cr\xc3\xa9pe  paper  and  balloons  ex-  ploded  softly.  In  the  center  of  the  huge  table  an  elaborate  cake  radiated  ribbons  to  each  child's  plate  which  we  yanked  at  a  signal  to  win  a  ring  wrapped  in  tissue.  On  my  skinny  finger  the  ring  dangled  weighty  as  a  handcuff.  Adele  was  an  only  child.  Her  parents  were  young;  they  seemed  hardly  older  than  my  old-  est  brother  and  sister.  But  they  were  very  different  from  us.  How  smoothly  Adele's  mother  moved,  how  benignly  her  father's  smile  floated  above  his  bow  tie,  how  calmly,  between  them,  they  governed  the  holiday  air  of  the  party.  The  information  that  in  my  world  there  might  be  Jews  to  emulate  made  me  sick  with  excitement.  Getting  sick  was  a  way  to  force  all  my  mother's  attention  in  my  direction.  Any  ministration  would  do  :  a  long  sock  filled  with  salt  heated  in  a  frying  pan  and  wrapped  around  my  throat  to  draw  the  inflammation,  a  shock-  ingly  cool  alcohol  rub-  down,  covers  suffocating-  ly  piled  on  to  sweat  out  the  poisons,  eggnog  with  a  drop  of  schnapps,  beef  tea  and  mint  tea,  and  a  wonderfully  aromatic  brew  of  steeped  dried  rasp-  berries-even  Papa's  cash-  register  receipts  to  count  at  midnight,  when  he  closed  the  store.  I  thought  of  myself  as  her  favorite  child.  We  all  did.  Privately,  we  each  put  the  question  to  her.  &quot;I'm  your  favorite.  Isn't  that  right?&quot;  She  had  no  hesitation  in  agreeing.  Whichever  child  was  at  her  side  was  her  favorite.  She  was  the  proverbial  Jewish  wife  who  could  cut  a  herring  into  enough  parts  to  feed  a  large  fami-  ly,  but  it  was  herself  she  pieced  for  our  hungers.  Y  mother  was  dead  before  I  thought  to  ask  her  all  the  things  I  wanted  to  know.  Toward  the  end,  I  hurried.  She  was  living  with  my  father  and  a  temporarily  unmarried  sister  in  a  house  in  [REDACTED],  cushioned  in  a  steady  material  comfort  at  last  by  my  brother  Barry,  who  had  cut  his  own  path  around  the  thicket  of  bankruptcies,  dispossesses,  summonses,  and  creditors  that  had  been  my  father's  notion  of  business.  When  I  was  young,  I  thought  those  terms  were  Yiddish  words  for  troubles  that  came  down  only  on  the  heads  of  small  grocery-store  own-  ers.  Barry  had  come  up  with  new  words-&quot;production,&quot;  &quot;profit,&quot;  &quot;cap-  ital  investment,&quot;  &quot;merger,&quot;  &quot;spinoff,&quot;  &quot;money.&quot;  I  set  up  a  bilingual  correspondence  between  me  and  my  mother  from  New  York  to  [REDACTED].  I  explained  that  I  would  have  a  friend  translate  her  let-  ters  for  me.  Did  that  information  give  her  a  stagefright  that  made  her  fool-  ish?  My  friend  was  an  expert  in  Yid-  dish  literature,  Perhaps  he  was  the  fool.  He  was  embarrassed  by  her  sentimen-  tality,  by  the  pages  splattered  with  tears  and  endearments  (&quot;my  dear  child,&quot;  &quot;mein  teier  kind,&quot;  &quot;my  sweet  daughter  Hannahle,&quot;  &quot;mein  ziese  tuchter,&quot;  &quot;soul,&quot;  &quot;meshume&quot;  ).  I  took  the  letter  from  him  when  he  stopped  to  explain  that  my  mother  wrote  an  illiterate,  mawkish  slop,  without  punctuation  or structure-very  difficult  for  him  to  read  and  translate.  &quot;&quot;No  need  to  go  on,  then,&quot;  I  said.  I  folded  the  letter  in  my  fist,  pro-  tecting  it  from  exposure.  If  she  was  go-  ing  to  turn  out  to  be  the  fool  of  my  father's  stories,  I  didn't  want  theproof.  I  would  stick  with  my  own  image.  I  put  her  letters  away  unread,  answering  them  in  the  same  general  way:  &quot;Dear-  est  Mama,  I  received  your  beautiful  let-  ter,&quot;  and  going  on  to  what  news  I  could  find  to  report.  I  typed  my  mean-  ingless  letters  at  my  desk  at  the  office.  She  had  taught  herself  to  read  English  print.  Soon  she  is  too  ill  to  write,  and  the  problem  solves  itself.  MY  father's  favorite  story,  which  he  tells  me  again  in  [REDACTED],  is  about  my  mother's  arrival  at  Ellis  Island  to  join  him.  He  had  preceded  her  to  [REDACTED]  by  three  months  to  find  a  job  and  a  place  to  live  before  sending  for  his  family.  She  had  met  a  know-it-  all  on  the  voyage,  whose  advice  led  her  astray.  This  chuchum  told  my  mother  to  lie  to  the  authorities  and  to  say  that  her  husband  had  preceded  her  to  the  States  by  two  years.  They  held  Mama  for  hours,  unravelling  snarls  in  a  situation  that  included  her  three-year-old  and  eighteen-month-old  children  and  a  preg-  nancy  visibly  too  far  gone  to  last  another " b"month.  My  father  loved  to  mim-  ic  how  Mama  signalled  him  from  her  caged  enclosure,  hold-  ing  up  two  fingers  and  winking  and  nodding  with  a  satisfied  show  of  her  cleverness  in  out-  witting  the  officials.  Papa  swore  that  the  children,  born  and  un-  born,  were  his.  And  the  officials  could  see  for  themselves  that  the  three-year-old,  my  oldest  broth-  er,  Saul,  dressed  in  his  best  Eng-  lish  serge  knickers  in  a  ninety-  degree  heat  and  with  his  soft  brown  hair  twisted  into  Lord  Fauntleroy  curls,  knew  his  fa-  ther  andwas  calling,  &quot;Papa,  Papa.&quot;  They  take  their  place  in  the  mythology  of  the  Jewish  im-  migration,  subjects  in  a  Lewis  Hine  photograph,  except  for  my  mother,  who  cannot  keep  a  dig-  nified  stance  in  the  tableau.  She  plays  the  clown,  even  looks  a  little  like  Harpo  Marx;  she  has  vomited  too  much  on  the  stormy  crossing  and  is  crazy  from  de-  hydration;  she  thinks  my  father  is  abandoning  her  there  in  the  compound  on  Ellis  Island.  In  her  last  years,  she  looked  more  like  Albert  Einstein.  She  tends  her  garden  in  [REDACTED]-  one  avocado,  one  grapefruit,  one  lemon,one  lime,  one  man-  go  tree.  The  wind  blows  her  white  hair  into  a  ridiculous  halo.  Her  eyes  are  monkey-wise  but  with  the  pink-rimmed  human  vulnerability  of  the  eyes  in  a  Rembrandt  portrait.  She  calls  the  utility  shack  my  father  has  had  built  on  the  edge  of  a  dis-  liked  neighbor's  property  the  spite  room.  She  mishears  the  phrase  the  new-mown  hay,  and  calls  the  sweepings  of  the  freshly  cut  lawn  the  Dumont  hay.  When  I  was  in  high  school,  learning  by  heart  &quot;tomorrow  and  tomorrow  and  tomorrow  creeps  in  this  petty  pace  ...&quot;  she  follows  me  declaiming  non-  sense,  &quot;shulimdrip,  shulimdrop,  alle  genz  auf  der  fence  ...&quot;  Did  she  lie  to  me  about  having  seen  Sarah  Bernhardt  play  Hamlet  with  a  wooden  leg?  She  was  nobody.  She  has  no  impor-  tance.  My  father  liked  to  complain  that  it  was  she  who  had  halted  his  activity  in  the  cap-makers'  union  after  the  failure  of  a  twelve-week  strike,  dividing  the  blame  for  the  collapse  of  his  revolu-  tionary  hopes  between  his  wife  and  hungry  children  and  the  bad  job  the  [REDACTED]  were  doing  in  Soviet  [REDACTED].  His  first  job  in  this  country  was  as  an  operator  in  a  hat  factory.  It  was  our  Aunt  Sadie  Jacoby,  already  &quot;making  good,&quot;  who  set  him  up  in  his  grocery  store.  &quot;I  don't  blame  him  for  my  life,&quot;  my  mother  says.  She  is  dying  in  a  [REDACTED]  hospital, fading  from  exhaustion,  not  responding  to  the  newest  drugs  to  soup  up  her  fail-  ing  heart.  &quot;I  kept  him  like  a  spoiled  child  all  his  life,&quot;  she  says  to  me.  She  is  angry  with  him  because  he  falls  asleep  in  the  armchair  when  he  comes  to  visit  her  at  the  hospital.  Still,  she  whispers-not  to  disturb  him.  &quot;Women  nowadays  know  better  what  to  do.  Don't  be  fools  like  " b"us.&quot;  I  was  in  the  middle  of  a  divorce.  &quot;Don't  get  married  again.  But  if  you  do,  don't  have  any  more  children.&quot;  She  closes  her  eyes.  My  father  is  snoring.  With  her  eyes  shut,  she  says,  &quot;Will  I  see  a  book  with  your  name  on  the  cov-  er,  please  God,  before  I  close  my  eyes  for  good?&quot;  She  was  always  old.  She  was  always  having  trouble  with  her  teeth.  Pyor-  rhea-another  Yiddish  word.  I  am  ten  years  old.  The  first  one  home  from  school,  I  am  the  first  to  see  het  false  teeth.  They  are  such  false  false  teeth.  She  turns  my  dismay  to  comedy,  grotesquely  working  the  teeth  in  and  out  of  her  mouth,  jabbering  ape  noises.  Fifteen  years  later,  when  I  am  twenty-  five  and  visiting  in  [REDACTED],  she  is  again  having  trouble  with  her  teeth.  The  original,  clumsy  upper  plate  has  long  been  replaced.  'This  is  bottom-teeth  trouble,  She  has  cataracts,  she  is  deaf,  and  her  feet  swell  with  long  sitting,  but  my  father  and  I  insist  that  a  movie  will  do  her  good.  We  enter  in  the   middle  ofa  double-feature  program.  She  asks  a  lot  of  questions  about  the  plot  into  which  we've  be  en  plunged.  I  try  to  answer  them  briefly,  while  my  father  shushes  us  and  darts  fierce,  con-  demning  glances  at  her.  She  has  brought  things  to  eat  in  a  paper  bag  nuts  and  grapes  and  a  couple  of  oranges  and  apples.  There  are  more  furious  glances  from  my  father,  but  he  eats  everything  she  offers  us.  So  do  I.  The  orange  she  peels  yields  a  marvellous  scent.  She  falls  a  sleep  in  the  middle  of  one  movie  and  wakes  in  the  middle  of  the  other  and  on  the  walk  home  puts  them  together  into  a  n  entertainment  better  than  the  one  we  had  seen.  My  father  laughs  and  calls  her  a  fool,  pleas-  antly.  As  little  as  there  is  to  tell,  I  make  her  still  less  in  the  telling.  What's  wrong?   WE  are  crossing  [REDACTED]  Bridge  on  an  open  trolley  car.  I  am  five  or  six  years  old.  We  are  going  to  or  coming  from  a  shopping  expedition  to  the  lower  East  Side.  I  am  in  an  ec-  stasy  of  excitement  and  revelation.  She  is  pointing  out  the  marvels  to  me-the  wonderful  bridge,  the  water  below,  the  boats,  the  bridge  traffic,  the  buildings  of  [REDACTED].  &quot;Look,  Hannahle,  look!&quot;  At  the  end  of  the  day,  walking  from  the  trolley  to  our  tenement  apartment,  she  puts  down  the  heavy  shopping  bags  and  we  sit  on  a  stoop  and  wat  ch  a  flock  of  pigeons  wheeling  and  flashing  the  golden  under  sides  of  their  wings  against  a  tall  building  cutting  into  the  endless  space  of  a  clear  violet-blue  sky.  We  are  living  in  Rock  away  Beach  in  a  ramshackle  apart  m  ent  behind  a  s  tore  she  tended  with  my  father.  I  am  eight  or  nine.  Mama  and  I  are  walking  along  the  shore  of  the  empty  beach,  It  is  early  spring.  The  sun  is  hot.  My  mother  is  carrying  a  small,  pointed  shovel,  a  strong,  blunt  knife,  and  a  cut  lemon,  We  are  barefoot.  Mama's  feet  are  squat  and  ugly  with  corns  and  bun-  ions.  The  sand  is  firm  and  cold  under-  " b"foot.  Mama  is  digging  clams.  She  ex-  plains  that  a  clam  breathes  through  tiny  holes  in  the  sand,  and  that  is  where  she  digs.  She  pries  the  shell  open,  rinses  the  gloppy  mess  in  the  seawater,  squirts  lemon  on  it,  and  swallows  it.  She  tries  to  persuade  me  to  try  one,  but  I  will  not.  &quot;Don't  tell  your  father  on  me,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;It's  not  kosher.&quot;  We  moved  almost  every  year.  We  moved  from  [REDACTED]  to  the  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED],  to  Rockaway  to  [REDACTED]  to  the  [REDACTED].  How  did  she  endure  all  that  moving?  Now  I  am  fifteen  and  she  has  been  sick  for  a  long  time.  She  has  had  a  spi-  nal  operation  and  is  immobilized  in  a  cast.  Though  we  were  all  cooperative  in  the  beginning,  we  are  tired  of  her  illness.  Nobody  wants  to  be  responsible  anymore,  even  if  we  did  drain  the  cal-  cium.  My  father  has  still  another  fail-  ing  store,  in  the  South  [REDACTED].  My  brother  helps  him  after  he  comes  home  from  work,  between  sessions  at  night  school.  It's  a  matter  of  weeks  before  the  creditors  will  descend.  After  the  settlement,  we'll  all  make  a  trip  to  car-  ry  off  as  much  stock  as  my  fatherthinks  we  can  get  away  with.  For  the  next  few  months,  we'll  eat  a  lot  of  canned  salmon,  and  so  will  the  families  of  my  sister  and  brother,  who  have  married and  got  free  of  us.  Another  sister  is  working.  My  next-eldest  sister,  a  year  out  of  high  school,  is  staying  at  home  to  takecare  of  Mama.  I  am  in  my  senior  year  at  school.  I'm  supposed  to  rush  straight  home  this  day.  My  sister  must  do  something  important,  and  Mama  will  be  alone  for  an  hour  or  so  before  I'm  due  to  arrive.  I  can't  get  myself  to  go  home.  I  can't  drag  myself  away  from  my  friends,  the  charged,  silly  talk,  the  electric  promise  in  the  air  that  every-  thing  is  possible.  I'm  in  love  with  a  doz-  en  people.  One  is  an  older,  married  English  teacher,  who  takes  me  for  a  ride  in  his  car  and  parks  under  the  trees  on  the  PelhamBay  Road  and  strokes  first  my  right  and  then  my  left  eyebrow  with  a  trembling  finger  as  we  discuss  D.  H.  Lawrence.  He's  even  Irish.  One  is  the  school's  leading  poet,  a  beautiful  girl,  younger  than  I,  who  has  read  everything-Robinson  Jeffers,  Ezra  Pound,  Gerard  Manley  Hopkins-and  can  quote  whole  poems.  There  is  a  real  556e6974656420537461746573n-looking,  square-faced  foot-  ball  star,  who  admires  me  wordlessly  and  then  invites  me  to  the  senior  prom,  andwhose  first  name,  shockingly,  turns  out  to  be  Moishe.  Most  important  is  Miss  Dillon,  another  English  teacher  with  whom  I  begin  a  passionate  friend- ship  as  puzzling  and  searing  as  any-  thing  I  will  ever  experience.  This  aft,  ernoon,  she  has  brought  around  a  new  girl  and  a  new  boy-two  of  her  &quot;spe-  cials.&quot;  We  are  all  her  &quot;specials&quot;  that's  how  we  meet.  Miss  Dillon's &quot;specials&quot;  call  her  Beth.  Beth  thrills  me  by  showing  open  displeasure  that  the  other  English  teacher,  my  Irishman,  has  spoken  possessively  of  her  Anne.  The  English  Department  has  been  discussing  graduation  awards.  It  looks  as  if  I  will  get  the  gold  medal.  Beth  is  jealous  of  the  other  teacher's  in-  volvement  in  my  fate.  It  makes  me  drunk  to  think  of  it.  The  new  girl  in-  tensely  watches  the  scene  Beth  and  I  are  playing.  She  responds,  magically,  to  everything  we  say-nodding,  laughing,  opening  her  eyes  wide,  just  as  I  would  have  her  do  in  a  daydream.  The  new  boy  is  on  trial.  He  is  dark  and  roman-  tic-looking  in  a  coarse,  Italian  fashion.  But  he,  too,  turns  out  to  be  Jewish.  He  doesn't  make  the  effort  to  follow  what's  happening.  It's  enough  for  him  to  feel  cherished  and  to  have  been  allowed  to  join  us.  He  rolls  anorange  up  one  arm,  along  his  shoulder  and  the  back  of  his  neck,  and  down  the  other  arm,  and  catches  it  neatly  with  a  twist  of  his  wrist.  Then  he  juggles  three  oranges  successfully.  &quot;For  love  of  three  or-  anges,&quot;  I  say,  and  win  an  admiring  nod  from  Beth.  We  make  fun  of  the  new  boy's  lowly  skill,  and  he  joins  us  to  laugh  at  himself.  He  haspassed  the  test.  Perhaps  I'll  be  in  love  with  him,  too.  He  has  an  empty  house.  His  family  is  visiting  relatives  in  [REDACTED]  for  the  weekend.  He  knows  how  to  make  spaghetti  with  meat  sauce.  He'll  cook  it  and  we'll  all  eat  it  together,  in  an  empty  house.  We  make  plans  to  meet  in  an  hour.  At  last,  I  hurry  home.  My  mother  has  wet  herself.  She  doesn't  look  at  me  or  speak  as  I  change  her  bedding  and  nightgown.  She  is  encased  in  the  steel  support  of  her  cast  and  in  a  cold,  solid  despair.  Her  feet  have  become  shapely  and  white  from  the  long  year's  invalid-  ism.  They  twist  my  heart.  I  don't  care.  I  don't  care.  I  just  want  to  go  to  my  friends.  I  dump  the  wet  things  in  the  kitchen  washtub  and  runwater  and  add  suds  and  leave  the  drainboard  off  so  that  someone  will  noticethe  linens  and  take  care  of  them.  I  wash  my  face  and  change  my  blouse  and  brush  my  hair  and  am  ready  to  run  off  as  soon  as  someone  arrives.  My  mother  calls  me.  She  keeps  her  face  turned  aside,  but  she  forces  her-  self  to  speak.  &quot;Help  me  make  Shab-  bas,  [REDACTED];  she  says.  I  place  tall  white  candles  in  the  brass  candlesticks  brought  " b"from  [REDACTED],  and  I  hand  her  a  clean  white  dish  towel.  I  light  the  candles,.  and  she  covers  her  head  with  the  towel  and  waves  her  arms  over  the  flames  in  the  mysterious  beckoning  motions  of  the  Sabbath  ritu-  al  prayer.  Her  now  fine  white  hands  cover  her  eyes,  and  she  sways  as  she  prays.  When  she  finishes,  I  want  to  joke  as  my  brother  would:  &quot;Did  you  put  in  a  good  word  for  me,  Mom?&quot;  But  her  face  is  forbidding.  I  have  no  part  in  that,  anyway.  Though  I  have  had  a  little  Hebrew  educa-  tion  and  can  say  a  decent  brucha,  blessing  the  wine  and  the  bread  as  well  as  my  brothers  can,  it  is  her  sons  who  are  her  prayer  insur-  ance.  They  will  say  Kad-  dish  when  she  dies.  I  LEAVE  my  children  with  a  babysitter  and  take  an  hour's  trip  toat-  tend  early-morning  services  with  my  father  and  broth-  ers.  My  mother's  body  has  been  brought  to  New  York  for  burial  in  a  [REDACTED]  cemetery  plot.  The  family  gathers  daily  at  my  brother's  grand,  comfortable  house  in  Westches-  ter  for  the  mourning  period.  We  sit  Shivah  on  fine  period  furniture  and  eat  food  prepared  by  a  Negro  cook  or  or-  dered  in  from  a  delicatessen  catering  service.  The  men  go  to  temple  in  the  morning  and  evening.  They  are  as-  tonished  that  I  join  them  this  morning,  but  they  accept  my  action  as  a  sign  of  distraught  grief.  My  brother  is  a  member  of  both  temples  in  this  suburb-the  reform  and  the  conservative.  We  are  in  the  con-  servative  one-a  new,  square,  simple  structure  more  like  a  Quaker  or  Uni-  tarian  church-in  which  the  old  rituals  are  carefully  observed.  I  am  surprised  to  see  young,  vigorous  executive  types  wrapping  themselves  in  the  surgical-  looking  tapes  and  patches  of  the  tephil-  lin.  My  father  eases  his  real  grief  with  the  considerable  consolation  of  his  son's  success,  which  he  wears  as  if  it  is  his  own.  Is  it  not?  How  preposterous  of  me  to  have  ever  worried  that  Jewish  was  not  556e6974656420537461746573n.  I  have  come  to  hear  poetry.  I  have  come  to  connect  with  my  mother  through  a  magical  and  powerful  incan-  tation.  I  have  come  to  hear  Kaddish  &quot;  said,  but  the  long  service  drones  on  without  it.  I  turn  the  pages  of  the  prayer  book,  looking  for  the  mourner's  prayer,  but  my  father  thinks  I'm  lost  and  he  does  for  me  what  he  always  did  for  my  mother,  Without  interrupting  his  singsong  murmuring,  he  takes  my  prayer  book,  finds  the  right  place,  and,  keeping  his  finger  firmly  on  the  spot,  returns  the  book  to  me.  He  is  a  dig-  nified,  senatorial  figure  in  his  prayer  shawl  and  silken  skullcap.  The  service  has  reached  that  part  where  the  con-  gregation  is  blessing  God  for  an  assort-  ment  of  good  things.  The  men  bless  God  because  He  has  not  made  them  women.  The  women,  in  smaller  print,  bless  God  for  having  made  them  ac-  cording  to  His  will.  I  am  the  only  woman  in  the  temple.  I  turn  the  book  away  from  my  father's  overseeing  gaze  to  find  what  I  was  looking  for,  the  transliteration  of  the  mourner's  prayer:  &quot;Yisgadal  v'  yiskadash  .  ..&quot;  I  read  to  myself,  not  bothering  with  the  English  translation,  giving  myself  up  to  sound  alone.  &quot;Visborach  &lt;yishtabach  '  v'  v'  yisnaseh  v'yis-hador  v'  yis-  aleh  yis-ha-lol  ...&quot;  When  I  finish,  I  am  peaceful  and  comforted  and  feel  free  to  go  outside  into  the  air  to  cry.  I  have  other  magic.  Now  I  keep  my  mother's  candlesticks  in  my  kitchen  on  the  Franklin-fireplace  mantel  of  my  New  [REDACTED]  cape.  From  my  garden  I  cut  a  spray  of  fresh  dill  and  add  it  to  the  last  cooking  minutes  of  the  chicken  soup  and  evoke  her  in  the  delicate,  sharp  scent.  I  insist  on  her  existence,  and  on  my  own. "