 b"WIERRE GEDANKEN  was  a  small  Elfin  [REDACTED],  never  of  any  importance  and  now  extinct.  In  the  Austrian  section  of  Countess  Morphy's  &quot;Recipes  of  All  Nations,&quot;  Wirre  Gedanken  (translated  &quot;Trou-  bled  Thoughts&quot;)  designates  a  kind  of  fried  bun;  but  there  does  not  seem  to  be  any  historical  connection.  The  Cas-  tle  of  Wirre  Gedanken  was  situated  in  a  gloomy  crevice  of  the  Harz  Moun-  tains.  As  it  lay  beneath  one  of  the  main  routes  to  the  Walpurgisnacht  Festival  on  the  Brocken,  the  excited  screamings  and  hallooings  of  witches  and  warlocks  flying  overhead  was  a  recurrent  nui-  sance  and  a  recurrent  subject  of  con-  versation.  There  was  also  the  plight  of  the  marmots  to  be  deplored.  The  great  bonfires  burned  so  hotly  that  the  snow  melted  and  seeped  into  the  marmot  burrows,  prematurely  wakening  the  harmless  little  animals  to  die  of  hunger  and  pneumonia.  So  Queen  Balsamine  declared.,  Compassion  for  marmots  was  the  soft  spot  in  a  character  otherwise  so  irritable  and  arbitrary  that  Balsamine  survives  in  English  folklore  of  the  nine-  teenth  century  as  the  Red  Queen.  The  castle  resounded  with  the  weeping  of  maidservants,  the  moaning  of  bower-  women,  the  howls  of  pages  under  the  lash,  The  Headsman  was  always  at  the  ready-though  in  fact  few  executions  took  place,  as  Balsamine's  attention  was  constantly  diverted  to  a  new  offender  and  the  Headsman  went  in  fear  of  be-  ing  blamed  for  striking  off  the  wrong  head.  He  drew  a  large  salary  and  liked  his  comforts.  One  day  in  early  spring  the  Queen  was  bitten  by  a  mouse.  The  upshot  was  totally  unforeseen.  Exhausted  by  the  cares  of  sovereignty,  Balsamine  decided  to  go  fora  rest  cure  to  Bad  Nixenbach,  the  fashionable  elfin  health  resort.  The  greater  part  of  the  court  went  with  her,  for  she  did  not  wish  to  travel  like  a  nobody.  Those  she  discarded  remained  at  Wirre  Ge-  danken,  with  a  small  staff  and  on  the  equivalent  of  board  wages.  The  discards  were  named  Ludo,  Moor,  Tinkel,  Nimmerlein,  and  Ban-  ian.  Ludo  was  her  Consort.  Moor,  Tinkel,  and  Nimmerlein  had  been  at  various  times  Royal  Favorites.  All  had  proved  disappointments  and  were  now  middle-aged.  Banian  was  young  and  slender,  and  had  been  chosen  to  make  one  of  her  party  till  at  the  last  mo-  ment  he  became  a  disappointment  by  coming  out  in  an  anxiety  rash.  For  the  first  days  after  Balsamine's  departure  the  unwonted  quiet  kept  them  awake  all  night.  But  by  degrees  they  gained  confidence  and  began  to  converse.  Banian,  being  young,  was  the  first  to  speak.  His  anxiety  rash  had  disappeared,  and  he  remarked  on  the  beauty  of  the  spring.  &quot;The  boy  chirps,&quot;  commented  Moor  to  Nim-  merlein.  Nimmerlein  replied  that  Ban-  ian's  mind  needed  stimulating.  The  next  day  heasked  him  if  he  thought  marmots  were  happy.  If  so,  why?  If  not,  why  not?  In  either  case,  what  reasons  had  he  for  thinking  so?  Etc.  Stimulated  by  this  Socratic  scrabbling,  Banian  objected  that  he  was  not  a  marmot.  At  this,  the  others  joined  in.  Would  he  like  to  be  a  marmot?  How  was  he  so  sure  he  was  not  a  marmot?  What  isit  in  man  which  distinguishes  him  from  marmots?  Banian  was  half  outwith  the  marmot's  capacity  to  sleep  throughout  the  winter  when  they  all  fell  on  him  with  the  capacities  ofrea-  son  and  speculation.  By  nightfall  Ban-  ian  had  learned  a  quantity  of  new  words  and  longed  to  use  them.  One  of  the  words  was  &quot;prolegom-  ena.&quot;  Another  was  &quot;symposium.&quot;  &quot;Shall  we  have  another  little  symposi-  um?&quot;  Ludo  would  ask-tenderly,  as  though  offering  daisies  to  a  lamb.  It  was  delightful  to  be  able  to  talk  so  freely,  at  such  leisure,  without  fear  of  rebuke  or  contradiction  or  decapitation.  They  all  felt  this,  but  Ludo  felt  it  most,  for  he  was  the  longest  sufferer  among  them.  &quot;I  wish  we  could  make  a  regular  thing  of  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Nothing  formal.  Just  to  meet  and  exchange  ideas.&quot;  Moor  said  such  meetings  might  be  taken  for  plotting.  &quot;Well,  just  to  meetand  meditate  together.&quot;  &quot;What  about?&quot;  asked  Nimmerlein.  Anticipating  Goethe,  Ludo  replied,  &quot;Goodness,  and  truth,  and  the  beauti-  ful.&quot;  &quot;Then  we  shall  soon  be  at  each  oth-  er's  throats,&quot;  said  Tinkel,  who  in  his  youth  had  invisibly  attended  a  conclave  of  bishops.  Banian  said  that  if  theyjust  meditat-  ed,  in  time  they  might  hit  on  some-  thing  to  meditate  about.  The  wish  to  meditate  took  hold  on  them.  In  the  mortal  world  there  were  whole  religious  communities  who  devoted  their  lives  to  meditation.  But  even  in  monasteries,  the  travelled  Tin-  kel  objected,  there  is  dissension,  and  far  too  much  singing.  They  wanted  something  quieter.  Discussing  what  it  was  they  wanted,  they  found  that  what  they  essentially  and  unanimously  want-  ed  was  to  get  away  from  Wirre  Ge-  danken,  Where  to,  and  what  to  medi-  tate  on,  would  resolve  itself  later.  Not  to  know  where  they  were  going,  Moor  pointed  out,  was  a  positive  advantage.  One  cannot  be  fetched  back  from  the  indeterminate.  'The  chance  of  being  found  by  accident  would  be  at  least  a  hundred  to  one,  increasing  according  to  the  square  of  the  distance  they  trav-  elled.  To  insure  the  indeterminate,  they  must  leave  as  unobtrusively  as  possible.  Before  dawn,  said  Banian.  With  only  a  valet  apiece,  added  Ludo.  And  leave  packing  till  the  night  before,  said  Nim-  merlein.  As  one  strips  an  artichoke,  they  sim-  plified  their  departure  till  they  reduced  it  to  the  anonymity  of  leaving  by  air,  sans  valets,  and  each  carrying  the  bar-  est  necessities  in  a  small  portmanteau.  Tinkel  was  the  only  one  of  them  who  had  any  experience  of  flying.  Fairies  in  the  Almanach  are  strictly  brought  up  not  to  use  their  wings,  which  is  servile  and  infra  dig.  Tinkel,  however,  though  as  well  imbedded  in  the  Almanach  as  the  rest  of  them,  had  resorted  to  flying  during  his  Wanderjahr,  sacrificing  dig-  nity  to  the  pursuit  of  learning.  He  as-  sured  them  that  it  was  really  quite  easy  and  that  they  would  find  themselves  doing  it  by  nature,  once  they  had  made  the  leap.  It  was  just  a  question  of  un-  folding  one's  wings-a  brief  effort  but  no  more  than  dragonflies  accomplish  when  they  begin  their  dragonfly  life.  He  took  them  to  the  lake  to  study  dragonflies,  and  into  a  meadow  to  make  experimental  flights.  It  took  them  much  longer  to  decide  what  they  would  take  in  their  portmanteaux,  but  at  last  this  was  settled,  and  on  a  May  morn-  ing  they  took  off  from  the  tallest  tower  of  the  castle  and  headed  southeast,  Tinkel  in  the  lead.  A  fairy's  wings  are  small  but  con-  structed  for  a  very  high  velocity.  Dur-  ing  the  experimental  flights  across  the  meadow  only  about  thirty  per  cent  of  full  velocity  had  been  attained.  As  the  Wirre  Gedanken  party  gathered  speed,     " b"they  began  to  feel  dizzy  and  rather  sick.  They  saw  the  landscape  reel  and  tumble  beneath  them,  and  felt  it  would  be  impossible  to  alight  on  it.  This  was  followed  by  a  feeling  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  fly  on  much  longer.  When  Tinkel  guided  them  down  onto  an  upland  meadow,  they  alighted  clumsily  but  painlessly,  and  sat  staring  about  them  like  children  awakening  in  a  strange  bed.  They  ate  some  sausage,  and  fell  asleep.  Waking  several  hours  later,  they  felt  too  stiff  and  exhausted  to  fly  further,  and  spent  the  night  in  a  haystack.  To  Banian,  opening  his  morning  eves  on  Nimmerlein  sparkling  with  dew,  the  haystack  seemed  the  very  place  they  wanted,  and  heprepared  himself  for  days  and  days  of  medita-  tion.  But  his  elders  meant  to  fly  on.  Not  till  the  afternoon  of  the  third  day  did  they  find  a  shelter  which  fitted  their  requirements.  It  was  a  disused  chapel  on  a  lonely  hillside  with  a  brook  near  by.  It  had  a  sound  tiled  roof  and  narrow  windows,  many  of  them  still  glazed.  It  was  dirty  and  cluttered  with  Christian  odds  and  ends,  but  among  the  litter  were  some  moth-eaten  altar  and  pulpit  cushions,  a  pitcher,  and  a  useful  font.  A  furry  bell  rope  hung  from  a  single  bell.  Tidied  up,  and  cleared  of  its  cobwebs,  the  chapel  would  make  a  very  adequate  place  to  meditate  in.  They  had  unpacked  their  portman-  teaux  and  were  allotting  cushions  when  they  heard  voices  and  the  twang  of  zithers.  A  band  of  gypsy  musicians  was  coming  up  the  track  in  a  very  accus-  tomed  manner.  In  a  very  accustomed  manner  they  crowded  into  the  chapel,  propped  their  instruments  against  the  wall,  gave  the  bell  rope  a  friendly  tweak,  collected  the  cushions,  and  set-  tled  themselves  on  and  around  the  al-  tar.  The  men  lit  up  their  pipes.  Some  of  the  women  unpacked  baskets  and  brought  out  loaves  of  bread,  cooked  chickens,  salami,  and  flasks  of  wine,  while  others  laid  and  kindled  a  wood  fire.  As  the  fire  gathered  heart,  an  iron  pot  was  placed  on  it.  The  fairies  watched  all  this  in  im-  potent  despair.  Court  life  at  Wirre  Gedanken  had  unfitted  them  for  self-  assertion.  At  Wirre  Gedanken  their  tribulations  had  been  blunted  by  large  and  regular  meals.  Now  they  were  ex-  tremely  hungry,  for  the  last  remains  of  their  sausage  had  been  honorably  shared  among  them  at  breakfast.  The  lid  was  lifted  from  the  iron  pot  and  its  contents  stirred.  An  invigorating  smell  arose.  Before  the  lid  had  been  replaced,  Banian  snatched  out  a  carrot  and  flew  off,  licking  his  scorched  fingers.  Mean-  while  the  loaves  had  been  sliced,  the  cold  chickens  dismembered.  Hovering  invisible  above  the  altar,  Ludo,  Moor,  Tinkel,  Nimmerlein,  and   Banian  shared  the  gypsies'  meal.  Under  the  circumstances,  the  ordinary  conventions  of  polite  table  manners  were  hard  to  keep  up.  At  first,  they  helped  them-  selves  to  undistributed  bits-fragments  which  would  not  be  missed.  Before  long,  they  were  filching  from  the  very  hands  of  their  hosts.  A  small  irate  gypsy  turned  on  his  neighbor,  accusing  him  of  snatching  a  drumstick  from  be-  tween  his  jaws.  Anything  in  a  fairy's  possession  partakes  of  his  invisibility,  so  while  the  two  men  wrangled,  Nim-  merlein  smiled  down  on  them  with  his  mouth  full,  gently  waving  the  drum-  stick.  When  it  was  stripped,  he  placed  it  behind  the  accused  man's  ear,  where  its  coquettish  appearance  was  seen  as  an  insult  by  the  accuser.  Knives  were  drawn,  a  general  quarrel  seemed  im-  minent,  till  the  lid  was  lifted  from  the  iron  pot,  the  pot  lifted  from  the  fire.  Here  the  gypsies  had  less  to  contend  with,  for  their  fingers  were  thicker-  skinned.  The  fairies  withdrew  to  finish  up  the  salami  and  the  wine.  Seeing  their  hosts  guzzling  so  complacently,  they  began  to  pinch  them-at  first  play-  fully,  then  with  intention  and  a  plan  of  campaign.  Pinched  here,  nipped  there,  attacked  on  all  sides,  the  gypsies  snatched  up  their  belongings  and  made  off,  followed  by  Moor,  who  hurled  himself  on  the  percussion  player  and  stole  his  triangle.  &quot;What's  that  for?&quot;  asked  Banian,  who  was  daily  growing  less  respectful.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  play  on  it?&quot;  Moor  replied  that  tomorrow  they  would  begin  to  meditate  on  it.  Ludo's  mother  had  been  pietistic,  and  there  was  a  sort  of  Christian  proverb  he  remembered  her  quoting,  to  the  effect  that  one  must  pass  through  many  tribulations  to  enter  the  King-  dom  of  Heaven.  They  had  certainly  been  through  tribulations-hunger  and  thirst,  going  unshaved,  sleeping  in  a  haystack,  evicting  gypsies  (a  rather  vul-  gar  affair,  he  had  not  altogether  en-  joyed  it).  But  now  they  would  enter  the  realm  of  meditation.  Moor  attached  the  triangle  to  a  bough  of  a  wild  cherry  tree.  It  glittered  in  the  morning  sun.  He  said,  &quot;Observe  it,&quot;  and  they  did  so.  After  a  pause,  Moor  continued,  &quot;You  will  have  ob-  served  that  it  has  three  sides,  and  that  each  side  is  of  equal  length.  In  other  words,  itis  an  equilateral  triangle.  What  ideas  spring  to  our  minds?  Equality.  Therefore,  serenity.  Indiffer-  ence  to  time  and  place.  Again,  serenity.  Total  reversibility.  Whichever  way  up,  " b"it  is  always  t  he  same.  Again,  serenity.  Indisputability.  It  cannot  be  con  fu  ted.  Serenity,  again.  Positive  abstraction.  It  is  passionless,  purposeless,  involuntary,  inexpressive.  No  blame  can  be  attached  to  it.  It  exists  by  being  itself;  or,  in  phi-losophic  terms ,  it  is  the  Ding  an  sich.  In  a  word,  serenity.&quot;  To  illustrate  his  words,  Moor  moved  the  triangle  one  poin  t  round,  and  stepped  back,  saying,  &quot;  You  see?  Serenity.&quot;  Tinkel  had  been  show  ing  dissatis-  faction.  Now  he  remarked,  &quot;That's  all  very  well,  my  good  Moor.  But  why  pick  on  a  triangle?  A  square  would  do  as  well.  With  all  this  three-sidedness,  we  shall  be  meditating  on  the  Tri  nity  befo  re  we  know  what's  what.  And  where's  your  serenity  then?&quot;  A  rather  acrimonious  discussion  fol-lowed,  during  which  Nimmerlein  was  vehemently  par  ti  san  about  the  circle.  It  was  allayed  by  Ludo  saying  that  of  all  Christian  views  of  the  Godhead,  which  in  any  cas  e  did  n  ot  con  cern  them,  the  Trinity  was  surely  the  least  offensive;  and  that  as  Moor  had  so  cleverly  got  t  he  triangle  they  had  be  st  stick  to  it.  THE  Broth  erhood  of  the  Blameless  Triangle,  as  they  decided  to  call  themselves,  fell  into  a  regular  pattern  of  life.  In  the  morning,  Moor  ex-  pounded,  going  deeper  and  deeper  into  the  inexhaustible  charms  of  equilaterali-  ty,  lis  ting  other  triangular  possibilities  only  to  reject  them,  and  promising  that  later  on  he  would  delight  his  companions  with  the  twelfth  root  of  two.  After  their  midday  m  eal,  they  meditated.  At  sundown,  an  Abendmusik  on  the  triangle  and  the  bell  was  performed  by  Banian  and  Ni  mmerlein.  For  suste-nance  they  depended  on  the  bosom  of  Nature,  ex-  cept  for  bread,  which  Nature  does  not  natur  ally  supply,  and  wine,  cheese,  and  butter,  where  Nature  has  to  be  processed.  They  discovered  there  was  a  vil-  lage  shop  within  easy  fly-  ing  distance.  Approaching  it,  Nimmerlein  put  on  vis-  ibility  and  ente  red  with  a  friendly  &quot;Good  day.&quot;  The  first  purchases  were  paid  for  in  mortal  currency.  Every  Elfin  [REDACTED]  keeps  a  gold  reserve.  The  coffers  of  Wirre  Gedan-  ken  were  exceptionally  well  filled,  and  Tinkel  had  sensibly  brought  away  a  quantity  of  specie  in  his  portmanteau.  Fairy  gold,  as  everybody  knows,  is  only  ope  rative  in  Elfin;  received  by  mortals,  it  turns  into  withered  leaves  by  the  morrow.  Having  established  creditability  by  his  first  pay-ment,  Nimmerlein  bought  on  a  ccount.  For  the  rest,  the  bosom  of  Nature  sup-  plied  watercress,  wild  garlic,  thyme,  and  quantities  of  hares  and  rabbits,  As  Banian  was  the  nimblest  flier  among  them,  he  was  huntsman.  He  also  skinned  and  paunched.  Once  or  twice  they  found  a  lost  lamb.  Nimmerlein  cooked.  The  font  made  an  admirable  wine  cooler.  As  none  of  them  had  ever  had  to  shave  himself,  they  let  their  beards  grow,  and  looked  increasingly  unworldly-except  for  Banian,  whose  beard,  being  new,  unthwarted,  and  silky,  looked  pastoral.  After  that  little  set-to  about  the  Trinity,  Moor  was  anxious  to  avoid  touchi  ng  on  any  extra-geometrical  aspect  of  geometry.  The  square  had  passed  without  remark;  he  managed  to  throw  a  veil  over  the  rhomboid.  The  hexagon  followed,  By  now,  it  was  past  midsummer;  the  stork's  nest  on  the  chapel  roof  had  brisk  young  birds  in  it,  and  the  Brotherhood  sat  in  the  chapel  for  coolness'  sake.  Moor  was  deducing  the  hexagon  from  t  he  triangle  when  Ludo,  hitherto  his  most  silent  and  en-  lightened  listener,  interrupted  with  beehives.  Moor  assented  in  parenthesis  (he  hoped  it  was  in  parenthesis)  that  bees  are  a  model  community.  But  the  breach  had  been  made.  In  rushed  ma-terialism,  saying,  What  about  wasps?  Moor  disliked  wasps  and  had  never  studied  their  architecture.  Searching  his  memory,  all  he  could  recall  was  a  gooseberry  bush  with  a  shapeless  object,  rather  like  an  old  grey  sock,  hanging  in  it.  Living  in  nongeometrical  surround-ings,  he  said,  wasps  were  necessarily  disorganized  and  inharmonious.  He  was  hoping  to  get  back  to  the  symmetry  of  the  hexagon  when  Nimmerlein  ex-  claimed,  &quot;There's  a  man  coming  up  the  hill.  He's  dressed  in  black  and  he's  got  a  boy  with  him.&quot;  Ludo  said  that  if  the  man  came  into  the  cha  pel  to  shelter  from  the  heat  it  would  be  uncivil  to  molest  him.  The  man  in  black  toiling  toward  t  hem  was  a  priest,  the  boy  was  his  acolyte.  The  gypsies  account  of  how  they  had  been  driven  out  of  the  chapel  had  spre  ad  through  the  countryside.  Disused  chapels  are  often  taken  over  by  demons.  The  good  man  was  coming  to  exorcise  them.  He  entered  the  chapel.  The  boy  staggered  in  after  him.  The  bag,  holding  the  appropriate  accessories,  as  heavy.  The  priest  wiped  the  sweat  from  his  tonsure,  took  a  piece  of  chalk  from  the  pocket  of  his  soutane,  and  drew  a  " b"pentagram  on  the  floor.  Standing  with-  in  it,  he  began  to  command  and  con-  jure  Satan  and  his  demons  to  go  away.  For  a  man  so  out  of  breath  he  spoke  loudly  and  well.  Where  his  memory  failed  him  (exorcism  is  a  long  ritual)  the  acolyte,  holding  the  service  book,  prompted  him,  as  well  as  speaking  the  responses.  The  fairies  watched  the  per-  formance  with  mild  amusement,  even  a  certain  tenderness.  The  poor  old  man  had  come  a  long  way,  in  great  heat,  to  recite  an  interminable  dealof  Latin,  all  with  good  intentions  and  to  no  pur-  pose.  Ludo  whispered  to  Moor,  &quot;Do  you  think  we  ought  to  tip  him?&quot;  The  exorcist  paused.  His  expression  was  that  of  a  workman  who  has  made  a  good  job  of  it  and  is  about  to  put  on  the  finishing  touches.  He  turned  to  the  acolyte,  who  produced  a  large  bottle,  uncorked  it,  and  poured  water  into  a  bowl.  He  then  handed  the  exorcist  a  sizable  whisk.  The  exorcist  dipped  the  whisk  in  the  water  and  sprinkled  the  acolyte,  who  murmured  a  few  words  of  thanks;  he  then  proceeded  to  sprin-  kle  everything  in  sight.  His  gestures  grew  larger  and  more  commanding,  he  charged  the  whisk  ever  more  am-  ply,  he  was  plainly  enjoying  him-  self.  Though  it  was  only  holy  water,  the  fairies  tried  to  keep  out  of  its  way.  Banian  sneezed.  Hearing  the  sneeze,  the  exorcist  whisked  vehemently  in  its  direction.  Banian  dodged,  but  Tinkel  received  a  full  charge  of  salt  and  water  in  the  eye.  He  seized  the  exorcist  and  began  to  shake  him.  The  exorcist  gasped  out  something  to  the  effect  that  Satan  had  no  power,  and  Tinkel  went  on  shaking  him.  The  exorcist  turned  blue  in  the  face,  his  eyes  protruded,  his  tongue  hung  out,  he  went  limp  as  a  rag  doll.  When  Tinkel  loosed  him,he  slumped  to  the  floor,  hiccupped  con-  vulsively,  and  died.  The  acolyte  fled,  screaming.  It  was  felt  that  Tinkel  had  gone  rather  too  far,  even  for  a  convinced  rationalist.  As  a  corpse,  the  priest  seemed  much  larger.  It  was  a  problem  how  to  dis-  pose  of  him.  The  hillside  was  smooth  as  an  apple,  not  a  pit  or  gully  in  it.  They  had  a  scruple  about  dumping  him  in  the  brook,  where  his  corrup-  tion  would  poison  the  water.  Cremation  was  out  of  the  question;  it  was  hard  enough  to  find  sufficient  fuel  to  cook  on.  So  they  must  dig  a  grave.  Spades  would  be  needed,  and  could  be  bought  in  the  village;  but,  if  the  acolyte  were  gossiping,  buying  spades  might  look  suspicious.  Five  pairs  of  willing  hands,  said  Moor,  should  be  enough  to  scrape  a  hole.  He  was  too  sanguine.  They  ODE  TO  MY  DESK  My  desk!  You're  a  mess,  and  no  mistake.  Your  trains  never  run  on  time,  No  one  will  drain  your  marshes,  You  have  no  equestrian  statues.  From  time  to  time  your  cigarette  lighter  Opens  by  itself  and  flames  for  nothing.  The  lark  in  the  &quot;Oxford  Dictionary  of  English  Etymology,&quot;  edited  by  C.  T.  Onions,  Occasionally  escapes  to  sing  its  ancestry  Of  laverocks,  while  alouette  des  champs  From  &quot;Harrap's  New  Shorter  French  and  English&quot;  Sings  much  the  same  tune.  Papers,  letters  from  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  Pens,  postage  stamps,  creditcards,  Bank  statements-you  have  a  street  For  everything,  but  they're  all  Sleeping  around,  in  the  wrong  streets,  A  clandestine  traffic  of  documents.  Benevolent  anarchist  whom  I  lean  on,  I  sit  with  you  all  day,  writing  And  not  writing,  rummaging  your  secrets,  Opening  your  empty  boxes  of  Pioneer  matches,  Looking  in  your  six  possessive  drawers  For  lost  assortments:  the  lock  of  hair,  An  embarrassing  letter,  and  the  reply  Already  written,  which  I  will  never  send,  Which  you  have  taken  into  your  benign  timbers.  But  nothing  is  lost  to  you.  You  know  where  everything  is;  You  guide  me;  we  have  that  understanding.  Desk!  I  celebrate  the  happy  life  My  abdication  of  tidiness  has  given  you!  I  promise,  as  you  ask,  never  to  organize  you.  Now  you  must  promise  never  to  organize  me.  roseat  dawn  to  scrape.  By  midday  their  nails  were  worn  to  the  quick  and  the  hole  was  negligible.  They  looked  at  their  chapel,  so  calm  till  this  mortal  incursion.  It  would  always  be  dear  to  their  hearts,  but  they  must  leave  it.  A  quick  farewell  is  best.  They  packed  and  by  dusk  they  were  gone.  HEY  flew  by  the  stars,  which  during  their  stay  had  disconcert-  ingly  shifted  position.  In  any  case,  they  were  uncertain  where  to  go.  Nimmer-  lein  wanted  a  respite  from  cooking;  they  all  felt  the  need  for  a  spell  of  civ-  ilized  comfort:  to  be  visible  guests  in  a  reputable  inn  would  have  suited  them  nicely,  if  it  had  not  been  forthe  cur-  rency  question.  Apart  from  the  first     le-Tew.  -Doucias  Dunn  down  payment  at  the  village  shop  their  mortal  capital  was  intact.  They  could  not  hope  to  keep  up  such  economy  at  an  inn.  There  was  an  Elfin  [REDACTED]  in  Styria  which  Tinkel  favored.  Its  Queen,  so  he  had  heard,  was  high-  flown  and  romantic,  the  very  person  to  welcome  an  anonymous  band  of  broth-  ers-for  as  such,  Ludo  insisted,  they  must  travel.  Their  shabbiness  and  shag-  giness  could  be  accounted  for  by  ex-  plaining  they  were  carrying  out  a  geo-  logical  survey,  a  survey  so  confidential  that  their  incognito  did  not  allow  them  attendants.  A  fortnight  at  Dreiviertel-  stein,  soft  beds,  mountain  air,  mani-  cure,  would  benefit  them  all.  They  had  repudiated  court  life  but  not  its  ameni-  ties  Ludo  refused  to  be  benefitted.  Sooner  or  later,  he  said,  the  cat  would  be  out  of  the  bag.  There  would  bea  reference  to  Wirre  Gedanken;  one  or  the  other  of  them  would  inadvertently  address  him  as  Your  Royal  Highness.  Balsamine  had  cousins  in  every  court.  They  would  be  traced;  he  would  be  done  for.  Like  all  meek  characters,  Ludo  had  a  will  of  iron.  They  gave  in.  " b"From  [REDACTED],  where  they  stayed  at  a  cheap  inn  in  the  suburbs,  they  followed  the  course  of  the  Danube,  alight,  ing  whenever  the  land-  scape  below  looked  promising.  Sometimes  the  landscape  was  ob-  literated  by  smoke  and  they  heard  cannon  fire.  Once,  alighting  in  a  park,  they  found  a  burned-out  mansion  and  a  row  of  impaled  cadavers  tottering  on  a  fence.  Still  following  the  Danube,  they  flew  on  and  saw  the  coun-  tryside  grow  calm,  well  tilled,  prosperous,  col-  ored  by  the  blue-green  of  poppy  fields.  To  the  south,  they  saw  a  moun-  tain  range.  Among  the  foothills  at  its  base  was  a  small  white  building,  too  tall  for  a  farm,  too  plain  and  unencum-  bered  to  be  a  church  or  castle.  Descending,  they  saw  it  had  pillars  and  a  pediment.  In  place  of  their  disused  chapel  they  had  found  a  forsaken  temple.  As  they  mounted  the  steps,  a  large  snake  reared  its  head  and  looked  at  them  with  a  flat  glittering  eye,  but  did  not  move  away.  &quot;A  temple  to  Aesculapius!&quot;  said  Tinkel.  Even  Tinkel's  clever  voice  was  awed.  They  sat  down  and  began  rubbing  their  legs  to  restore  circulation,  im-  paired  by  so  many  days  of  flying.  Be-  fore  them  stretched  a  vast  undulating  landscape  of  tillage,  punctuated  by  lines  of  cypresses.  The  air  was  clear  as  crys-  tal;  every  detail  was  distinct  and  in  perfect  perspective:  it  was  as  though  they  were  looking  at  an  enormous  chessboard.  Bands  of  women  were  at  work  in  the  fields.  They  moved  slowly  and  sang  in  mournful  voices.  Here  and  there  plumes  of  bluish  smoke  rose  from  heaps  of  smoldering  trash  or  low-  roofed  dwellings.  In  the  middle  dis-  tance  the  roofs  gathered  together  into  a  little  town.  Water  was  led  through  the  fields  in  chessboard  channels,  with  willows  and  mulberries  growing  along-  side.  The  clank  of  a  wind  pump  came  at  long  intervals.  Here  was  the  serenity,  the  dry  serenity  Moor  had  promised  them  in  his  first  talk  on  the  triangle,  a  serenity  which  had  evaded  them  till  now.  The  sun  touched  the  horizon  and  a  distant  yelling  broke  the  silence.  The  air  was  so  clear  that  they  could  see  the  minute  shape  of  a  man  gesticulating  from  the  top  of  a  slender  tower.  A  prisoner,  they  supposed,  calling  for  help.  The  women  working  in  the  fields  paid  no  attention  and  presently  he  gave  up.  Dusk  gathered,  the  noises  of  dusk  arose:  croaking  frogs,  cicadas,  night-  ingales,  then  an  owl.  It  was  too  dark  to  unpack.  They  pillowed  their  heads  on  their  portmanteaux  and  fell  asleep.  Sunrise  woke  them.  The  prisoner  on  the  tower  was  renewing  his  yells,  poor  creature!  When  they  had  heard  him  yelling  for  several  days,  always  at  the  same  pitch  and  always  at  the  rise  and  set  of  sun,  they  concluded  he  was  clock-  work.  They  breakfasted  on  figs  and  goat's  milk.  They  found  the  milk  in  a  bowl  on  the  steps,  and  drank  it  gratefully,  without  much  considering  whether  the  snake  had  a  prior  claim  to  it.  Old  [REDACTED],  coming  for  herbowl,  noticed  it  had  been  lickedclean.  The  next  morning  she  brought  a  larger  bowl;  and  when  that,  too,  had  been  licked  clean  she  brought  her  largest  bowl,  with  so  much  milk  in  it  that  they  could  leave  some for  the  snake.  She  came  so  furtively  that  all  they  knew  of  her  was  the  milk.  Many  years  before,  her  daughter  had  lain  dying  of  marsh  fever.  In  despera-  tion,  [REDACTED]  remembered  a  proscribed  belief,  and  went  to  the  temple  to  im-  plore  the  holy  serpent.  He  listened,  and  she  had  been  grateful  ever  since-  though  privily;  forthe  local  church  was  oppressed  and  therefore  without  mercy  for  backsliders.  One  morning,  having  heard  the  God  in  his  empty  temple  playing  a  wind  instrument,  she  brought  a  loafof  rye  bread  and  two  eggs.  The  loaf  was  very  welcome  to  the  Brotherhood  of  the  Blameless  Trian-  gle,  who  till  now  had  depended  for  grain  on  what  they  could  glean  out  of  the  stubble.  Eggs  were  easier,  for  hens  lay  astray,  'They  found  provi-  sioning  harder  in  this  bounteous  land-  scape  than  on  the  bare  hillside,  though  that,  said  Moor,  was  because  they  had  not  got  into  the  way  of  it.  For  himself,  he  was  looking  forward  to  cheroots:  a  tobacco  crop  was  being  harvested;  he  had  joined  the  harvesters  and  had  leaves  drying  on  the  temple  floor.  Oth-  er  crops  were  rye,  maize,  poppies,  to-  " b"matoes,  and  pumpkins.  Workers  were  busy  in  the  fields,  with  overseers  among  them,  and  at  night  the  overseers  kept  watch,  sitting  in  raised  seats,  each  with  a  dog  beside  him.  Invisibility  could  make  light  of  such  obstacles;  but  since  that  misadventure  with  the  exorcist  they  had  lost  their  innocence  and  stole  halfheartedly,  hampered  by  recollection  of  public  opinion.  Nimmerlein  flew  back  from  the  town  saying  it  was  no  pleasure  to  shop  there.  The  shopkeep-  ers  were  a  glum  lot,  and  insisted  on  being  paid  on  the  nail,  though  other  customers,  with  knives  in  their  waist,  cloths  and  chewing  sweetmeats,  took  the  best  of  everything  and  swaggered  away  with  never  a  word  of  payment.  They  were  gendarmes,  he  supposed;  for  he  had  seen  them  marching  ahead  ofa  fat  yellow  person  in  a  chariot,  who  wore  a  jewelled  turban  and  joggled  a  boy  on  his  knee.  It  was  all  a  sad  con-  trast  to  the  village  shop,  so  friendly  and  obliging,  and  he  saw  no  hope  of  establishing  an  account.  But  they  were  too  happy  to  dwell  on  these  hardships.  It  was  a  dreamy,  com-  placent  happiness,  as  if  they  breathed  it  in  from  the  warm  poppy  fields.  The  triangle  hung  from  a  beam,  Banian  played  a  flute  he  had  nicked  from  an  overseer,  Moor  rustled  his  dry  leaves,  and  in  the  mornings  there  was  the  milk.  It  was  still  rich  autumn  when  the  cranes  came  flying  from  the  north.  They  flew  in  vast  flocks,  one  flock  fol-  lowing  another,  clamoring  as  if  they  were  riding  on  broomsticks  to  a  Wal-  purgisnacht.  A  few  days  later,  it  began  to  rain.  It  rained  for  a  week-a  steady,  drenching  rain  that  washed  the  color  from  the  fields.  When  it  left  off,  the  sky  was  a  different  blue  and  the  moun-  tains  seemed  to  have  closed  in  on  the  plain.  And  there  was  no  more  milk.  The  snake  had  died,  weakened  by  malnutrition,  and  [REDACTED]  had  come  on  the  body,  which  Tinkel  had  thrown  into  some  bushes.  Hearing  her  wail-  ing,  they  hoped  it  wasn't  wolves.  They  missed  the  milk  badly,  the  more  so  since  the  weather  had  grown  bitterly  cold.  Men  came  into  the  fields  with  teams  of  oxen,  plowing  in  the  remains  ofthe  summer's  crops.  They  wore  sheepskin  coats  and  cloth  leggings.  Nimmerlein  was  sent  to  the  town  to  buy  winter  outfits.  He  went  against  his  will,  and  returned  saying  that  five  sheepskin  coats  would  be  more  than  he  could  car-  ry  and  that  the  shopman  refused  to  be-  lieve  that  five  coats  were  wanted  by  one  man,  though  he  had  held  up  five  fin-  gers.  They  must  go  in  a  body.  At  the  entrance  to  the  town  they  put  on  visibility.  It  made  them  no  warmer,  and  impaired  their  self-  esteem.  They  had  grown  accustomed  to  looking  like  tramps,  butnot  to  being  looked  atas  such.  Their  shoes  were  down  at  heel,their  knuckles  dirty,  their  noses  red.  They  walked  on  de-  jectedly  till  a  familiar  sound  put  heart  into  them.  It  was  the  note  of  a  trian-  gle,  briskly  dominating  a  band  of  drums  and  bagpipes.  Round  the  corner  came  the  band,  and  after  the  band  a     mounted  escort  and  a  chariot.  The  habit  of  court  life  mastered  them;  they  drew  themselves  up  and  stood  in  a  row,  bowing  to  the  fat  yellow  man  who  lounged  in  the  chariot.  He  still  had  the  boy  on  his  knee  but  held  him  inat-  tentively.  Seeing  them,  he  sat  up  and  stared  sharply.  They  effaced  them-  selves  in  the  crowd  and  went  on  to  the  outfitters.  When  they  learned  the  price  of  the  sheepskin  coats  they  were  ap-  palled.  If  they  had  not  already  put  them  on,  they  might  have  refused  to  buy.  But  the  warmth,  and  even  the  smell  of  mutton  fat,  was  so  restorative  that  they  paid  down  the  money  and  left  the  shop,  looking  like  everyone  else  in  the  street.  Outside  the  gates,  they  put  their  coats  on  back  to  front,soas  to  free  their  wings,  and  flew  back  to  the  temple.  No  milk,  no  resources,  no  leggings  (leggings  were  too  expensive-but  they  were  beginning  to  feel  the  lack  of  them,  forthe  temple  was  drafty),  no  spiders  (to  supply  the  example  of  perseverance  when  all  seems  lost),  a  handful  of  horse  beans,  and  a  frost,  bitten  pumpkin  :  it  was  a  stern  moment.  Nimmerlein  emptied  the  purse.  There  was  even  less  in  it  than  they  supposed,  for  the  outfitter  had  passed  them  a  bad  coin.  The  four  seniors  exchanged  glances.  Moor  looked  at  Ludo.  Ludo  nodded.  With  a  heavy  sigh,  Moor  said,  &quot;Let  us  reconsider  the  triangle.  So  far  we  have  considered  it  in  passivity,  and  found  it  serene.  Let  us  now  consider  it  as  an  active  principle,  possessing  Will  and  Notion.  Let  us  suppose,  for  in-  " b"stance,  that  such  a  triangle  wished,  for  reasons  we  need  not  go  into,  to  lodge  itself  in  a  square.  Which  part  of  itself  would  it  direct  to  that  end?  A  side,  or  one  of  its  equilateral  angles?  Surely,  it  would  be  the  latter?&quot;  There  was  a  hum  of  assent.  Moor  continued,  &quot;Let  us  further  suppose  that  one  of  these  angles,  departing  from  equilaterality,  were  slightly  prominent,  slenderer  and  therefore  more  insinuat-  ing.  Have  we  any  reason  to  doubt  but  that  this  would  be  the  angle  our  hypo-  thetical  triangle  would  choose  for  its  purpose-and  rightly  so?&quot;  They  agreed  that  there  could  be  no  possible  doubt  of  this.  Ludo  quoted  an-  other  of  his  mother's  pious  proverbs,  this  one  in  the  form  of  a  distich:  The  Littling  do  not  disallow  A  pebble  laid  Goliath  low.  Banian  saw  them  looking  at  him  and  realized  that  something  was  expected  of  him.  He  said,  hesitatingly,  &quot;Like  a  gimlet?&quot;  &quot;Exactly!&quot;  they  said  with  enthusi-  asm,  and  Tinkel  got  up  and  patted  him  on  the  back.  &quot;Going  back  to  Moor's  original  tri-  angle,&quot;  said  Nimmerlein.  &quot;The  passive,  serene  one.  If  I  remember  rightly,  it  was  perfect  whichever  way  up  it  was.  You  couldn't  accuse  it  of  in-  version.&quot;  &quot;No  blame  could  be  at-  tached  to  it,&quot;  said  Moor.  Tinkel  remarked  he  had  seen  a  lot  of  it  in  [REDACTED].  After  a  pause  he  exclaimed,  &quot;Strike  while  the  iron  is  hot!&quot;  All  this  time,  Banian  had  been  reconsidering  the  triangle.  He  was  now  slightly  hypnotized,  and  the  warmth  of  his  sheep-  skin  enveloped  him  like  his  featherbed  at  Wirre  Gedanken.  He  woke  to  learn  it  was  more  or  less  settled  that  he  should  prostitute  himself  to  the  fat  yellow  man.  &quot;That  I  won't!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;I'd  die,  rather.  And  why  should  I?&quot;  &quot;For  the  general  good,&quot;  said  Ludo.  &quot;To  improve  our  liv-  ing  conditions,&quot;  said  Tin-  kel.  &quot;To  make  yourself  useful,  for  once,&quot;  said  Nimmerlein.  This  stung  Banian,.  &quot;Make  myself  useful?  And  when  haven't  I  made  my-  self  useful?  Who  was  huntsman?  And  water  carrier?  Who  swept  the  floors  and  paunched  the  rabbits  and  polished  the  triangle?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;&quot;No  more  paunching  rabbits,&quot;  said  Nimmerlein  artfully.  &quot;Listen  to  reason,  Banian,&quot;  said  Moor.  &quot;The  facts  are  irrefutable.  We  have  no  money  to  speak  of  and  nothing  to  eat  but  horse  beans,for  the  pump-  kin  is  already  decayed.  We,  too,  are  decayed.  We  have  lost  our  youthful  charms.  We  exemplify  the  Law  of  Diminishing  Returns.  You,  on  the  oth-  er  hand,  are  in  the  flower  of  your  youth.  You  are  desirable  and  have  only  to  make  yourself  desired-for  he  is  ob-  viously  tired  of  that  boy.  And  numeri-  cally  we  are  four  to  one.&quot;  &quot;Do  not  think  us  harsh,&quot;  added  Ludo.  &quot;We  are  all  very  fond  of  you;  we  have  your  best  interests  at  heart.  It  proves  how  carefully  we  have  pre-  served  your  innocence  that  you  should  be  making  all  this  fuss.  Submit,  dear  Banian,  submit!  We  all  have  to  submit  at  some  timeor  other.  You  will  find  it  a  great  deal  easier  to  submit  to  a  man  than  to  a  woman,  I  can  assure  you.&quot;  &quot;But  to  that  revolting  old  suet  pud-  ding-&quot;  &quot;He  may  have  beauties  of  the  mind.  My  mother  used  to  say-&quot;  &quot;And  I  don't  know  a  word  of  his  beastly  language-&quot;  &quot;The  language  of  love  is  interna-  tional.&quot;  As  Ludo  spoke,  a  man  wearing  splendid  boots  came  up  the  steps.  With  the  instinct  of  a  well-trained  servant  he  instantly  recognized  Ludo  as  the  head  of  the  party,  bowed  deeply,  and  hand-  ed  him  a  letter  on  pink  paper,  gilt-  edged.  The  letter  was  written  in  Turk-  ish,  Sclavonian,  and  bad  French-the  language  of  diplomacy.  It  ran:  Messieurs,  Our  holy  religion  enjoins  us  to  show  hospitality  to  strangers.  Yielding  with  pleasure  to  the  Heavenly  requirements,  I  do  myself  the  gratification  to  invite  you  all  to  spend  the  winter  under  my  roof.  A  conveyance  awaits.  Peace!  Mustara  Isranim  Bey  Provincial  Governor  DESK  was  falling  as  they  mounted  the  steps  of  the  Residence,  After  a  clatter  of  drawing  bolts,  unhooking " b"chains,  and  turning  keys,  the  door  was  opened.  The  Provincial  Governor  stood  just  inside.  His  expression  was  coyly  expectant,  he  wore  white  kid  gloves  and  helda  bunch  of  red  roses.  As  he  gave  each  of  them  a  rose  the  door  was  rebolted,  rechained,  and  relocked.  &quot;Please  don't  think  you  have  come  to  a  jail,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  there  are  nasty  peo-  ple  about,  and  how  sad  I  would  be  if  our  first  night  were  disturbed.  Tran-  quillity!  Don't  you  love  tranquillity?  I  pursue  it  of  all  things.&quot;  They  agreed  that  they  pursued  tran-  quillity  ;  they  also  agreed  it  was  hard  to  attain.  Agreement  followed  agreement.  He  so  quickly  put  them  at  their  ease  thatafter  supper  (which  except  for  lacking  wine  was  delicious)  Tinkel  asked  him  how  he  knew  where  to  find  them.  &quot;A  little  bird  told  me,&quot;  he  re-  plied.  Coffee  was  served.  Iced  water  accompanied  it.  Conversation  contin-  ued,  but  less  briskly.  Banian  fidgeted  and  looked  constrained;  so,  too,  did  the  Provincial  Governor.  A  silence  fell,  broken  by  the  Provincial  Governor  saying,  &quot;I  am  about  to  make  a  strange  request.  I  hope  you  won't  think  me  too  forward.&quot;  Ludo,  Moor,  Tinkel,  and  Nimmerlein  implied  that  they  couldn't  dream  of  thinking  it,  and  looked  tutorially  at  Banian.  &quot;I  am  a  poet,&quot;  continued  the  Provincial  Gov-  ernor.  &quot;I  expand  myself  in  poetry.  What  a  seraglio  is  to  some,  my  poems  are  to  me.  But  like  a  seraglio  they  are  secluded.  No  one  listens  to  them.  May  I  read  you  one  of  my  poems?&quot;  With-  out  waiting  for  assent,  he  clapped  his  hands.  A  servant  brought  in  a  large  basket  filled  with  scrolls.  &quot;Naturally  I  compose  them  in  Turkish.&quot;  He  picked  a  scroll,  and  began  to  read  aloud.  His  voice  was  rich  and  commanding.  He  read  slowly,  waving  his  hand  to  mark  the  stresses,  and  pausing  at  frequent  intervals,  as  though  to  inhale  some  par-  ticular  beauty.  &quot;Now  I  will  read  it  in  French.&quot;  The  reading  in  French  took  even  longer,  as  he  had  to  break  off  and  com-  plain  of  the  inadequacy  of  the  French  language.  The  poem  seemed  to  be  main-  ly  about  camels  eating  green  sprouts  in  a  wilderness  and  finding  spiritual  assurance  by  chewing  the  cud.  As  an  expression  of  his  intentions  toward  Banian  it  was  too  recondite  to  hit  its  mark.  Banian  gazed  at  the  ceiling  and  twiddled  his  thumbs.  &quot;Do  read  it  again,&quot;  said  Ludo.  The  request  was  complied  with,  in  both  languages.  More  poems  were  read,  with  more  disquisitions.  Moor  sat  bolt  upright  in  a  condition  of  fixed  wakefulness;  the  others  listened  with their  limbs  relaxed  and  their  eyes  closed.  At  midnight  the  Provincial  Governor  explained  that  he  must  tear  himself  away  in  order  to  sign  some  mandates,  and  they  were  shown  to  their  bedrooms.  In  the  morning,  new  suits  were  laid  out  for  them.Later  in  the   day,  the  shoemaker  came  to  measure  them  for  slippers.  Their  sheepskin  coats  were  removed  without  comment  and  replaced  by  sables.  Though  to  the  eye  ofthe  flesh  Mustafa  Ibrahim  was  a  repulsively  ugly  little  man,  and  in  the  eyesof  His-  tory  a  tyrant,  he  was  an  excellent  host.  During  the  day  he  only  appeared  at  mealtimes.  After  supper  there  were  poetry  readings.  These  began  with  Mustafa  politely  asking  his  guests  if  they  had  written  any  poetry  during  the  day.  As  they  had  not,  heread  his  own.  " b"Ludo  had  been  blooded  to  poetry  at  his  mother's  knee.  Though  the  manner  of  Mustafa's  poetry  was  unlike  that  of  his  mother's  favorite  authors,  he  recognized  a  similarity  of  mood.  Mus-  tafa,  expressing  his  desire  to  penetrate  the  Ineffable,  was  bolder  in  metaphor  than  they;  but  the  gist  was  much  the  same:  they  were  alike  lovesick  for  an  au-dela.  As  the  winter  advanced,  there  was  rioting;  Mustafa  would  break  off,  not  to  inhale  a  beauty  or  point  out  a  technical  nicety  but  to  listen  to  a  volley  of  shooting  in  the  streets.  He  listened  with  critical  attention,  and  when  the  insurgents  had  been  taught  their  lesson  he  returned  tohis  poems  like  a  dove  re-  turning  to  her  nest.  Ludo  could  not  avoid  remembering  Balsamine's  tender-  ness  for  marmots.  It  did  not  alter  his  feelings  about  Balsamine,  but  it  oddly  increased  his  affection  for  Mustafa.  Twice  a  week  Mustafa  drove  in  an  open  carriage  through  the  streets.  He  now  held  an  Armenian  acrobat  on  his  knee.  Watching  such  a  departure,  Tinkel  remarked  that  an  assassination  would  be  awkward  for  them.  &quot;I'd  be  thankful!&quot;  exclaimed  Banian.  &quot;No  more  poetry!&quot;  He  deeply  resented  the  Armenian.  One  of  Mustafa's  little  birds  had  told  him  all  he  wished  to  know  about  his  guests-where  they  came  from,  who  they  were,  what  they  were.  At  the  height  of  his  rapture  at  having  secured  an  audience,  he  had  thought  of  having  their  wings  torn  out.  Common  sense  prevailed;  none  of  them  showed  the  slightest  inclination  to  fly  away,  so  why  go  to  extremes?  Perhaps  they  would  feel  a  migratory  instinct  later  on.  Meanwhile  his  little  birds  kept  him  up  to  date  with  the  latest  news.  One  day  he  came  out  of  his  office  with  a  grave  face  and  told  Ludo  that  Queen  Bal-  samine  was  dead.  He  feared  this  meant  he  must  lose  his  dear,  his  sympathetic  hearers.  Arrangements  for  their  return  to  Wirre  Gedanken  were  already  in  train,  their  mourning  outfits  getting  ready-to  ease  their  departure  was  the  least  he  could  do.  &quot;If  you  start  at  sun-  rise  tomorrow,  you  will  be  in  excellent  time  for  the  obsequies  Now  I  will  leave  you  to  your  grief.&quot;  Ludo  lay  awake  all  night,  listening  to  the  heartless  excitement  of  the  oth-  ersas  they  ran  from  room  to  room,  seeing  that  nothing  had  been  over-  lookedby  the  packers,  and  chattering  about  their  dear  Homeland.  At  sunrise,  Mustafa  stood  at  the  head  ofthe  steps,  amid  mountains  of  luggage.  Speeches  were  made,  hopes  of  a  later  meeting  expressed.  He  looked  even  uglier  in  the  light  of  sunrise  and  increasingly  fat  as  the  luggage  was  gradually  removed.  &quot;Pillage&quot;  ...  &quot;booty&quot;  ...the  words   dinned  in Ludo's  mind.  He  turned  from  his  travelling  companions  and  ran  back  up  the  steps.  &quot;Provincial  Governor,  Your  Excel-  lency,  I  will  never  forget  your  hospi-  tality.  Thanks  to  you,  forthe  first  time  in  my  life  I  have  lived  without  fearing  or  scheming.  I  can  scarcely  tear  my-  self  away.&quot;  &quot;'Then  how  foolish  to  tear,&quot;  said  Mustafa.&quot;Delight  me  by  staying.  My  life  is  monotonous.  I  divide  it  between  being  a  slave  to  duty  and  a  slave  to  pleasure.  What  I  need  is  a  friend,  a  disinterested  European  friend,  the  real  article.  Stay  and  be  that  friend.  Drive  on!&quot;  he  cried  to  the  cavalcade.  As  it  drove  off,  taking  Ludo's  luggage  with  it,  Ludo  and  the  Provincial  Gov-  ernor  waved,  then  went  in,  arm  in  arm.  Ludo  gave  up  flying,  forgot  his  past,  and  learned  Turkish.  They  lived  together  till  Mustafa's  death,  after  which  Ludo  moved  to  4974616c79,  where  he  wrote  Mustafa's  biography,  now  considered  to  lack  prejudice.  "