 b"SATURDAY  11:05  a.m.:  Just  woke  up,  after  less  than  six  hours  of  sleep.  It  was  a  night  of  squirmy  dreams,  some  of  which  seemed  to  touch  upon  my  long  poem,  &quot;Love  Currents,&quot;  which  I  had  worked  on  until  very  late.  But  recalling  bits  of  dream  now,  I  find  no  clear  connections,  only  glints.  This  is  an  irritating  way  to  start  a  day.  I  feel  uneasy,  not  rested,  inter-  rupted  in  midstream.  I  am  too  hungry  for  my  breakfast-sardines,  imported  from  [REDACTED].  Maybe  I  should  stick  to  prose.  12:10  p.m.:  Edwin  Okov  just  phoned  to  say  he  is  accepting  my  story  &quot;Where  Is  Jenny?&quot;  for  the  upcoming  issue  of  The  Jocund  Magician,  which  is,  of  course,  the  only  interesting  lit-  erary  journal  in  this  desultory  college  town  that  I  now  call  home-a  home  to  me  in  the  merest  physical  sense.  I  expressed  my  thanks  several  times,  be-  cause  they  have  rejected  my  last  three  stories.  In  fact,  this  is  my  first  ac-  ceptance  anywhere.  Edwin  said  he  likes  &quot;Where  Is  Jenny?&quot;  for  the  mys-  tery  that  hovers  over  its  details  and  for  the  pace  of  the  narrative.  &quot;It  doesn't  drag,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Thanks,  Edwin,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  sort  of  buoyant,&quot;  he  said.  12:30  Pp.m.:  Sandra  Goli  phoned  to  suggest  that  we  go  to  the  modern-  dance  concert  at  the  Civic  Center  to-  night.  I  agreed.  In  a  burst  of  inspira-  tion,  I  recommended  that  we  try  to  get  infree  as  reviewers  for  The  Joc-  und  Magician.  &quot;But  we're  not  con-  nected  with  it  at  [REDACTED];  said  Sandra.  &quot;They're  going  to  publish  a  story  of  mine,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;so  it's  all  right  if  I  describe  us  as  contributors.&quot;  Sandra  mentioned  that  I  had  left  a  notebook  at  her  apartment  last  week.  I  said  I  would  pick  it  up  tonight.  It  must  be  my  green  notebook-the  one  in  which  I  keep  rough  drafts  of  my  stories.  1:00  p.m.:  I've  been  wandering  around  my  apartment,  picking  up  books  and  reading  page  77  (my  lucky  number)  in  each  one,  dropping  them,  turning  on  the  TV,  turning  it  off.  The  good  news  about  my  story  seems  to  have  para-  lyzed  me.I'm  drifting.  Something  re-  minds  me  of  that  poem  I  wrote  fou:  years  ago  about  our  vegetable  garden.  I  remember  how  Jenny  made  fun  of  it  and  rewrote  it  with  frivolous  rhymes-radish  and  faddish,  beet  and  discreet,  trowel  and  jowl,  loam  and  gnome.  She  was  acting  a  bit  crazy,  of  course,  but  her  jokes  may  have  helped  me  to  leaven  the  poem's  dangerous  seri-  ousness  with  a  touch  of  humor.  Any-  way,  it  certainly  was  a  witty  poem--  witty  and  meaningful-but  it  never  saw  print.  But  now  a  story  of  mine  is  about  to  be  published,  really  published!  So  why  do  I  feel  this  dyspeptic,  bobbing  feeling?  If  my  words  have  found  the  acceptance  they  sought,  can  there  be  anything  left  for  me  to  do?  I  see  my  story  bobbing  away  from  me  on  a  wave  of  public  approval;  off  it  goes,  and  I  am  left  alone  on  the  dock.  1:20  p.m.:  Sammy  Basset  just  came  over  to  complain  about  all  the  work  he  has  to  do  this  weekend  when  he  could  be  playing  softball  and  watching  the  two  Red  Sox  games.  He  has  to  prepare  a  brief  about  some  life-insurance  litigation  involving  a  death  at  sea  that  may  have  been  only  a  feigned  death.  A  typical  law-  school  exercise.  Sammy  stomped  around  the  kitchen  asking  the  cosmos  how  he  could  get  his  thoughts  organized.  I  told  him  he  needed  a  notebook  like  mine,  with  labelled  section  dividers.  Just  then  the  phone  rang.  &quot;Look  on  the  dining-  room  table,&quot;  I  called  out  as  I  went  into  the  pantry  to  answer  the  phone.  27  It  was  Chipper  Kinzell,  an  assistant  editor  of  The  Jocund  Magician.  I  met  him  at  a  party  last  month.  He  struck  me  as  more  of  a  journalist  than  a  lover  of  literature.  He  was  calling  to  ask  whether  &quot;Where  Is  Jenny?&quot;  was  somehow  autobiographical.  I  said  it  was,  in  a  way,  though  of  course  the  chronology  is  surreal  and  certain  facts  are  obviously  distorted  by  my  percep-  tion.  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  said  Chipper.  I  could  tell  he  didn't  like  the  story,  though  he  tried  to  sound  enthusiastic.  &quot;I  just  wanted  to  know  if  we  should  treat  it  as  fic-  tion,&quot;  he  said.  I  said  to  treat  it  as  fic-  tion.  Possibly  I  sounded  just  a  bit  con-  temptuous,  because  then  his  voice  be-  came  stern.  &quot;Just  what  is  the  point  of  the  story,  if  you  can  summarize  it?&quot;  he  said.  I  said  it  was  about  loneliness-the  isolation  of  the  individual  in  time  as  well  as  space.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  said  Chipper,  &quot;but  who  exactly  is  Jenny?&quot;  I  decided  to  be  frank,  and  told  him  that  Jenny  is  my  sister.  She  went  to  Europe  foun  years  ago  and  I  haven't  heard  from  her  since,  except  for  two  postcards  and  three  letters,  the  last  one  now  more  than  a  year  old.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  said  Chipper,  &quot;but  to  tell  you  the  truth,  I  think  your  story  leaves  out  too  many  of  the  transi-  tions-you  know,  like  from  one  para- " b"graph  to  another.  But  Edwin  really  likes  it.&quot;  I  thanked  Chipper  for  his  candor  and  hung  up.  I  found  Sammy  seated  at  the  dining-  room  table,  writing  furiously  in  the  back  of  my  gray  notebook-the  one  in  which  I  keep  carbon  copies  of  my  final  drafts.  I  wondered  if  Sammy  had  been  sampling  my  work,  but  he  told  me  ex-  citedly  that  my  notebook  (with  the  labelled  dividers)  would  allow  him  to  plan  his  brief.  &quot;I've  already  divided  my  main  pointsinto  five  sections,&quot;  said  Sammy,  flipping  through  the  unused  back  part  of  the  notebook.  &quot;  'History,&quot;  'Precedents,  'Maneuvers,'  'Character  of  Litigant,'  and  'Reasonable  Doubt.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;That's  great,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You'll  make  a  brilliant  lawyer.&quot;  I  wasn't  really  paying  attention  to  Sammy,  be-  cause  my  eye  had  been  caught  by  a  sheet  of  paper  protruding  from  the  top  of  the  front  partof  the  notebook.  It  was  not  one  of  my  carbon  copies.  By  twisting  my  head,  I  was  able  to  read  the  first  two  lines  typed  on  the  paper:  &quot;and  knew  the  spring  night  as  a  sea  of  her  voices,  which  dive  away  from  my  stiff  hands  like  laughing  silver  fish.&quot;  I  recognized  this  as  the  fourth  page  of  the  final  copy  of  &quot;Where  Is  Jenny?&quot;  The  story,I  recalled,  was  six  pages  long.  Edwin  Okov  had  only  five-sixths  of  my  story.  How  could  I  havebeen  so  careless?  How  could  he  be  blind  enough  to  think  he  had  the  complete  manuscript?  I  should  have  numbered  the  pages.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  said  Sammy,  &quot;I've  got  to  get  back  to  the  library,  How  about  if  I  just  borrow  the  whole  notebook,  and  I'll  bring  it  back  tomorrow?&quot;  I  was  already  on  my  way  to  the  phone.  &quot;Sure,  Sammy,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Ex-  cuse  me  a  minute-&quot;  Edwin  Okov  was  not  at  his  office.  As  I  stood  in  the  pantry  listening  to  his  phone  ringing,  I  heard  my  front  door  slam.  2  :15  p.m.:  I've  been  watching  tele-  vision  for  half  an  hour,  planning  to  phone  Edwin  again  at  2:30.  I  know  he  usually  eats  a  late  lunch.  He'll  be  back  by2:30,  and  I'll  call  and  warn  him  not  to  send  &quot;Where  Is  Jenny?&quot;  to  press  until  I  get  page  4  to  him.  Strange-I  just  saw  a  young  wom-  an  who  looks  amazingly  like  Jenny,  in  a  commercial  for  Dutch  Diamond  Cruises.  She  spoke  eagerly  about  how  she'd  like  to  see  me  on  one  of  their  lux-  ury  liners;  then  she  smiled  radiantly  and  said  something  in  Dutch  that  seemed  to  mean  &quot;'There's  no  time  to  lose.&quot;  In  her  last  letter,  Jenny  remarked,  &quot;You  would  never  dream  how  much  I'm  enjoying  Bern-'the  romantic  capital  of  Switzerland,&quot;  as  they  say  on  posters.&quot;  2:32  p.m.:  Edwin  is  still  not  in  his  of-  fice.  I'm  going  to  take  page  4and  walk  over  there,  and  if  he's  still  out  I'll  give  the  page  to  Chipper  Kinzell  or  [REDACTED]  Wilby.  Or  else  maybe  I'll  look  for  Edwin  in  one  of  the  restau-  rants  near  his  office.  I  know  he  some-  times  eats  at  Ada's  Clam  House.  2:33  p.m.:  I  just  realizedthat  Sammy  has  gone  off  with  my  gray  notebook.  What  is  making  me  behave  so  stupidly?  It's  as  if  my  story  were  fated  to  re-  main  incomplete.  Somebody  has  been  reading  too  much  Borges.  I  think  Pll  go  over  to  Sandra's  apartment  and  collect  my  green  note-  book,  which  contains  the  rough  draft  of  &quot;Where  Is  Jenny?&quot;  I'll  take  it  to  Edwin  Okov,  explain  the  problem,  and  we  can  reconstruct  the  proper  sequence  of  images,  Who  knows-this  may  even  improve  the  story.  3:05  p.m.:  I'm  sitting  at  Sandra's  desk  in  her  apartment,  which  is  filled  with  dark-blue  dusty  light.  She's  not  home,  but  her  door  was  unlocked.  I  know  she  wouldn't  mind  my  coming  in  to look  for  my  notebook.  I  can't  find  it.  Sandra's  records  and  books  are  scat-  tered  all  over  the  soft  navy-blue  car-  pet,  but  no  green  notebook.  I  wonder  what  she  would  think  of  my  sitting  at  her  desk  staring  at  her  calendar.  Today's  entry:  &quot;Lunch  w.  E.  at  A's,  2:00.  Meet  J.  at  museum,  3:15.  Dance  concert  w.  M.,  8:00.&quot;  I  don't  believe  I'm  jealous.  My  rela-  tionship  with  Sandra  is  fairly  casual.  I'm  just  curious.  4:00  p.m.:  I've  been  to  the  historical  library  and  the  humanities  library,  and  now  I'm  on  the  fourth  floor  of  the  sciences  library.  No  sign  of  Sammy  Basset.  I'm  at  a  carrel  used  by  some  student  of  oceanography.  There  is  a  paper  entitled  &quot;Inversions  of  Cross-  [REDACTED]  Tides&quot;  in  front  of  me.  It  is  seventy-six  pages  long.  None  of  the  pages  is  missing.  6:30  p.m.:  I've  just  spent  an  hour  trying  to  reconstruct  page  4  of  &quot;Where  Is  Jenny?&quot;  Somehow,  the  more  Itry  to  recall  the  farther  I  seem  to  stray  from  the  precise  wording  of  the  origi-  nal.  I've  given  up,for  now.  For  the  remainder  of  this  evening,  I'm  deter-  mined  not  to  worry.  My  story  will  not  spoil  my  excursion  with  Sandra.  I'm  not  even  going  to  ask  her  about  the  green  notebook.  She  has  expressed  the  opinion  that  I  am  too  fastidious  with  my  writings,  but  lately  I  think  I've  appeared  more  relaxed  to  her.  I  won't  rock  the  boat  tonight.  I'll  get  the  gray  notebook  from  Sammy  tomorrow,  after  all.  My  dinner  is  broiled  flounder.  I  " b"am  concentrating  on  the  enjoyment  of  each  bite.  7:50  p.m.:  On  the  way  to  the  Civic  Center,  Sandra  made  some  remark  about  how  time  seems  to  pass  at  ir-  regular  speeds,  and  I  suddenly  remem-  bered  that  a  very  important  paragraph  of  &quot;Where  Is  Jenny?&quot;  comeson  page  4.  In  this  paragraph,  I  introduce  spec-  ulations  about  the  relation  between  time  and  space.  These  speculations  lead  to  the  feeling  that  I  should  not  grieve  over  Jenny's  disappearance  but  rather  should  accept  her  absence  as  necessary  and  temporary.  (In  the  story,  Jenny  is,  of  course,  a  symbol  as  well  as  a  person.)  The  paragraph  appears  about  two-thirds  of  the  way  down  page  4  of  the  final  draft.  It  is  crucial  to  the  thematic  unity  of  the  story.  Even  after  recalling  this  paragraph,  I  resisted  the  impulse  to  ask  Sandra  about  the  green  notebook.  For  one  thing,  it  occurred  to  me  that  in  typing  the  final  draft  I  made  some  changes.  In  fact,  I  remember  that  these  changes  were  almost  brilliant.  I  thought  of  phoning  Sammy  Basset  from  the  lobby  of  the  Civic  Center,  but  then  I  decided  not  to  violate  my  reso-  lution  about  the  evening.  (&quot;Tine  is  a  river,&quot;  Sandra  told  me  the  night  I  met  her.  &quot;You  gotta  let  it  flow.&quot;)  While  we  found  our  seats  and  waited  for  the  curtain  to  rise  I  forced  myself  to  joke  with  Sandra,  trying  to  make  my  jokes  as  unfastidious  as  possible.  &quot;A  digital  clock  is  like  a  ship  without  sailors,&quot;  I  said,  knowing  she  liked  aphorisms.  &quot;In  what  way?&quot;  sheasked.  &quot;No  hands,&quot;  I  said.  Sandra  laughed  rather  uncom-  fortably.  8:43  p.m.:  A  new  dancer  just  appeared  onstage.  I  have  to  say  it:  She  looks  in-  credibly  like  Jenny-the  way  Jenny  would  look  today.  She  dances  beauti-  fully.  They  all  dance  beautifully.  Such  control.  Her  costume  is  bright  blue,  with  gold  stripes  down  the  legs.  It's  not  her  face,  really,  but  the  way  she  moves  -the  gliding  motions  of  her  arms  and  legs.  That's  how  Jenny  moved.  I  re-  member  swimming  underwater  in  a  sunlit  pool  at  some  motel  when  we  were  kids  and  suddenly  seeing  her  glide  by,  a  bright  smiling  submarine.  11:05  p.m.:  I'm  home  alone.  Sandra  said  she  was  tired.  [REDACTED]  Wilby  just  called.  &quot;Edwin  told  me  he'd  called  you,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  I  wanted  to  talk  to  you  as  soon  as  possible.  I  agree  with  him  that  your  story  is  interesting,  but  I  hon-estly  don'tthink  you've  found  the  right  form.  With  all  the  jumps  and  abrupt  changes  in  tone  and  subject,  you  know,  and  the  density  of  the  metaphor,  et  cetera,  I  get  the  idea  that  this  is  not  really  meant  to  be  prose  at  all.  I  think  what  you  really  want  is  a  poem.  So  what  I'd  like  you  to  do  is  try  and  com-  press  the  story-you  know,  distill  it-  and  see  if  you  can  capture  the  essence  of  it  in  the  form  of  a  poem.  Because  I  really  don't  think  it  works  as  fiction.&quot;  &quot;You  may  be  right,  [REDACTED],&quot;  I  said.  I  think  I  was  smiling  vaguely  to  myself.  My  story  was  now  so  far  away  across  an  endless  plain  of  rippling  green  water  that  I  could  not  protect  it.  &quot;But  listen,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you  know  how  I  really  think  you  ought  to  handle  it?  As  a  review.  Run  it  as  a  review  of  the  dance  concert  at  the  Civic  Center  tonight.  No  kidding,  [REDACTED].  It's  a  re-  view.&quot;  She  laughed.  I  hung  up.  They  prob-  ably  won't  run  it  at  all. "