 b"WHEN  Ellen  was  told  that  she  would  be  hired  as  a  music  teacher  at  the  high  school,  she  decided  that  it  did  not  mean  that  she  would  have  to  look  like  the  other  peo-  ple  on  the  faculty.  She  would  tuck  her  hair  neatly  behind  her  ears,  instead  of  letting  it  fall  free,  schoolgirlishly.  She  had  met  some  of  the  teachers  when  she  went  for  her  interview,  and  they  all  seemed  to  look  like  what  she  was  try-  ing  to  get  away  from-suburbanites  at  a  shopping  center.  Casual  and  airy,  the  fashion  magazines  would  call  it.  At  least,  that's  what  they  would  have  called  it  back  when  she  still  read  them,  when  she  lived  in  Chevy  Chase  and  wore  her  hair  long,  falling  free,  the  way  it  had  fallen  in  her  high-school-  graduation  picture.  &quot;Your  lovely  face,&quot;  her  mother  used  tosay,  &quot;and  all  cov-  ered  by  hair.&quot;  Her  graduation  picture  was  still  on  display  in  her  parents'  house,  next  to  a  picture  of  her  on  her  first  birthday.  It  didn't  matter  how  Ellen  looked  now;  the  students  laughed  at  her  be-  hind  her  back.  They  laughed  behind  all  the  teachers'  backs.  They  don't  like  me,  Ellen  thought,  and  she  didn't  want  to  go  to  school.  She  forced  herself  to  go,  because  she  needed  the  job.  Shehad  worked  hard  to  get  away  from  her  lawyer  husband  and  almost-paid-for  house.  She  had  doggedly  taken  night  classes  at  Georgetown  University  for  two  years,  leaving  the  dishes  after  din-  ner  and  always  expecting  a  fight.  Her  husband  loaded  them  into  the  dish-  washer-no  fight.  Finally,  when  she  was  ready  to  leave,  she  had  to  start  the  fight  herself.  There  is  a  better  world,  she  told  him.  &quot;Teaching  at  the  high  school?&quot;  he  asked.  In  the  end,  though,  he  had  helped  her  find  a  place  to  live-  an  older  house,  on  a  side  street  off  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  with  splintery  floors  that  had  to  be  covered  with  rugs  and  walls  that  needed  to  be  repapered  but  thatshe  never  repapered.  He  hadn't  made  trouble  for  her.  Instead,  he  made  her  look  silly.  He  made  her  say  that  teaching  high  school  was  a  better  world.  She  saw  the  foolishness  of  her  state-  ment,  however,  and  after  she  left  him  she  began  to  read  great  numbers  of  newspapers  and  magazines,  and  then  more  and  more  radical  newspapers  and  magazines.  She  had  dinner  with  her  husband  several  months  after  she  had  left  him,  at  their  old  house.  During  dinner,  she  stated  several  ideas  of  im-  portance,  without  citing  her  source,  He  listened  carefully,  crossing  his  knees  and  nodding  attentively-the  pose  he  always  assumed  with  his  clients.  The  only  time  during  the  evening  she  had  thought  he  might  start  a  fight  was  when  she  told  him  she  was  living  with  a  man-a  student,  twelve  years  young-  er  than  she.  An  odd  expression  came  across  his  face.  In  retrospect,  she  real-  ized  that  he  must  havebeen  truly  puz-  zled.  She  quickly  told  him  thatthe  re-  lationship  was  platonic.  What  Ellen  told  him  was  the  truth.  The  man,  Sam,  was  a  junior  at  George  [REDACTED]  University.  He  had  been  rooming  with  her  sister  and  brother-  in-law,  but  friction  had  developed  be-  tween  the  two  men.  Her  sister  must  have  expected  it.  Her  sister's  husband  was  very  athletic,  a  pro-football  fan  who  wore  a  Redskins  T-shirt  to  bed  instead  of  a  pajama  top,  and  who  had  a  football  autographed  by  Billy  Kilmer  on  their  mantel.  Sam  was  not  frail,  but  one  sensed  at  once  that  he  would  always  be  gentle.  He  had  long  brown  hair  and  brown  eyes-nothing  that  would  set  him  apart  from  a  lot  of  other  people.  It  was  his  calmness  that  did  that.  She  invited  him  to  move  in  after  her  sister  explained  the  situation;  he  could  help  a  bit  with  her  rent.  Also,  although  she  did  not  want  her  husband  to  know  it,  she  had  discovered  that  she  was  a  little  afraid  of  being  alone  at  night.  When  Sam  moved  in  in  September,  she  almost  sympathized  with  her  broth-  er-in-law.  Sam  wasn't  obnoxious,  but  he  was  strange.  She  had  to  pay  atten-  tion  to  him,  whether  she  wanted  to  or  not.  He  was  so  quiet  that  she  was  al-  ways  conscious  of  his  presence;  he  nev-  er  went  out,  so  she  felt  obliged  to  offer  him  coffee  or  dinner,  although  he  al-  most  always  refused.  He  was  also  ec-  centric.  Her  husband  had  been  ec-  centric.  Often  in  the  eveningshe  had  polished  the  brass  snaps  of  his  briefcase,  rubbing  them  to  a  high  shine,  then  tri-  umphantly  opening  and  closing  them,  and  then  rubbing  a  little  more  to  re-  move  his  thumbprints,  Then  he  would  drop  the  filthy  cloth  on  the  sofa,  which  was  upholstered  with  pale  French  linen  that  he  himself  had  selected.  Sam's  strange  wayswere  different.  Once,  he  got  up  in  the  night  to  in-  vestigate  a  noise,  and  Ellen,  lying  in  her  room,  suddenly  realizedthat  he  was  walking  all  over  the  house  in  the  dark,  without  turning  on  any  lights.  It  was  just  mice,  he  finally  announced  outside  her  door,  saying  it  so  matter-  of-factly  that  she  wasn't  even  upset  by  the  news.  He  kept  cases  of  beer  in  his  room.  He  bought  more  cases  than  he  drank-more  than  most  people  would  ever  consider  drinking  over  quite  a  long  period.  When  he  did  have  a  beer,  he     " b"would  take  one  bottle  from  the  case  and  put  it  in  the  refrigerator  and  wait  for  it  to  get  cold,  and  then  drink  it.  If  he  wanted  more,  he  would  go  and  get  another  bottle,  put  it  in  the  refrigera-  tor,  wait  another  hour,  and  then  drink  that.  One  night,  Sam  asked  her  if  she  would  like  a  beer.  To  be  polite,  she  said  yes.  He  went  to  his  room  and  took  out  a  bottle  and  put  it  in  the  refrigerator.  &quot;It  will  be  cold  in  a  while,&quot;  he  said  quietly.  Then  he  sat  in  a  chair  across  from  her  and  drank  his  beer  and  read  a  magazine.  She  felt  obliged  to  wait  there  in  the  living  room  until  the  beer  was  cold.  One  night,  her  husband  came  to  the  house  to  talk  about  their  divorce-or  so  he  said.  Sam  was  there,  and  offered  him  a  beer.  &quot;It  will  be  cold  in  a  while,&quot;  he  saidas  he  put  it  in  the  refrigerator.  Sam  made  no  move  to  leave  the  living  room.  Her  husband  seemed  incapaci-  tated  by  Sam's  silent  presence.  Sam  acted  as  if  they  were  his  guests,  as  if  he  owned  the  house.  He  wasn't  authori-  tarian-in  fact,  he  usually  didn't  speak  unless  he  was  spoken  to-but  he  was  more  comfortable  than  they  were,  and  that  night  his  offerof  cigarettes  and  beer  seemed  calculated  to  put  them  at  ease.  As  soon  as  her  husband  found  out  that  Sam  planned  to  become  a  lawyer,  he  seemed  to  take  an  interest  in  him.  She  liked  Sam  because  she  had  con-  vinced  herself  that  his  ways  were  more  tolerable  thanher  husband's.  It  became  a  pleasant  evening.  Sam  brought  cash-  ews  from  his  room  to  go  with  the  beer.  They  discussed  politics.  She  and  her  husband  told  Sam  that  they  were  going  to  get  divorced.  Sam  nodded.  Her  hus-  band  had  her  to  dinner  once  more  be-  forethe  divorce  was  final,  and  he  in-  vited  Sam,  too.  Sam  came  along.  They  had  a  pleasant  evening.  THINGS  began  to  go  smoothly  at  her  house  because  of  Sam.  By  Christmas,  they  were  good  friends.  Sometimes  she  thought  back  to  the  early  days  of  her  marriage  and  remem-  bered  how  disillusioned  she  had  felt.  Her  husband  had  thrown  his  socks  on  the  bedroom  floor  at  night,  and  left  his  pajamas  on  the  bathroom  floor  in  the  morning.  Sam  was  like  that  sometimes.  She  found  clothes  scattered  on  the  floor  when  she  cleaned  his  room-socks  and  shirts,  usually.  She  noticed  that  he  did  not  sleep  in  pajamas.  Things  bother  you  less  as  you  get  older,  she  thought.  Ellen  cleaned  Sam's  xoom  because  she  knew  he  was  studying  hard  to  get  into  law  school;  he  didn't  have  time  to  be  fussy.  She  hadn't  intended  to  pick  up  after  a  man  again,  but  it  was  differeat  this  time.  Sam  was  very  appreciative  when  she  cleaned.  The  first  time  she  did  it,  he  brought  her  flowers  the  next  day,  and  he  thanked  her  several  times,  saying  that  shedidn't  have  to  do  it.  'That  was  it-she  knew  she  didn't  have  to.  But  when  he  thanked  her  she  became  more  enthusiastic  about  it,  and  after  a  while  she  began  to  wax  his  room  as  well  as  dust  it;  she  Windexed  the  windows,  and  picked  up  the  little  piecesof  lint  the  vacuum  had  missed.  And,  in  spite  of  being  so  busy,  Sam  did  nice  things  for  her.  On  her  birth-  day,  he  surprised  her  with  a  blue  bath-  robe.  When  she  was  depressed,  he  cheered  her  up  by  saying  that  any  stu-  dent  would  like  a  teacher  as  pretty  as  she.  She  was  flattered  that  he  thought  her  pretty.  She  began  to  lighten  her  hair  a  little.  He  helped  her  organize  her  school  programs.  He  had  a  good  ear  and  he  seemed  to  care  about  music.  Before  the  Christmas  concert  for  theparents,  he  suggested  that  the  Hallelujah  Chorus  be  followed  by  Dunstable's  &quot;Sancta  Maria.&quot;  The  Christmas  program  was  a  triumph;  Sam  was  there,  third  row  center,  and  he  applauded  loudly.  He  believed  she  could  do  anything.  After  the  concert,  there  was  a  picture  in  the  newspaper  of  her  conducting  the  sing-  ers.  She  was  wearing  a  long  dressthat  Sam  had  told  her  was  particularly  be-  coming  to  her.  Sam  cut  out  the  picture  and  tucked  it  in  his  mirror.  She  care-  fully  removed  it  whenever  she  cleaned  the  glass,  and  then  replaced  it  in  the  same  spot.  As  time  went  on,  Sam  began  to  put  a  six-pack  of  beer  in  the  refrigerator  instead  of  a  bottleat  a  time.  They  stayed  up  late  at  night  on  the  weekends,  talking.  He  wore  the  pajamas  she  had  given  him;  she  wore  her  blue  bathrobe.  He  told  her  that  her  hair  looked  more  becoming  around  her  face;  she  should  let  it  fall  free.  She  protested;  she  was  too  old.  &quot;How  oldare  you?&quot;  he  asked,  and  she  told  him  she  was  thirty-two.  He  laughed.  Thirty-two  wasn't  old-  and  shedidn't  look  thirty-two.  She  re-  arranged  her  hair.  She  bought  him  a  sweater-vest  to  keep  him  warm.  But  the  colors  were  too  wild,  he  said,  laughing,  when  he  opened  the  box.  No,  she  in-sisted he looked good in bright colors, and  anyway  the  predominant  color  " b"was  navy  blue.  He  wore  the  sweater-  vest  so  long  that  finally  she  had  to  remind  him  that  it  needed  to  be  dry-  cleaned.  She  took  it  with  her  one  morn-  ing  when  she  dropped  off  her  clothes.  Then  they  began  talking  almost  ev-  ery  night,  until  very  late.  She  got  up  in  the  mornings  without  enough  rest,  and  rubbed  one  finger  across  the  dark,  puffy  circles  under  her  eyes.  She  asked  him  how  his  studies  were  coming;  she  was  worried  that  he  was  notpaying  enough  attention  to  his  schoolwork.  He  told  her  everything  was  all  right.  &quot;I'm  way  ahead  ofthe  game,&quot;  he  said.  But  she  knew  something  was  wrong.  She  offered  to  have  his  professor  to  din-  ner-the  one  who  would  write  him  a  recommendation  to  law  school  -but  Sam  refused.  It  wouldn't  be  any  trou-  ble,  she  told  him.  No,  he  didn't  want  to  impose  on  her.  When  she  said  again  that  she  wanted  to  do  i:,  he  told  her  to  forget  it;  he  didn't  care  about  law  school  any  more.  That  night,  they  stayed  up  even  later.  The  next  day,  when  she  tried  to  lead  the  Junior  Cho-  rus,  she  could  hardly  get  out  more  than  a  few  phrases  of  &quot;The  Impossible  Dream&quot;  without  yawning.  The  class  laughed,  and  because  she  hadn't  had  enough  sleep  she  became  angry  with  them.  That  night,  she  told  Sam  how  em-  barrassed  she  was  about  losing  her  tem-  per,  and  he  reassured  her.  They  drank  several  beers.  She  expected  Sam  to  go  into  his  room  and  get  another  six-pack,  but  he  didn't  rise.  &quot;I'm  not  happy,&quot;  Sam  said  to  her.  She  said  that  he  had  been  working  too  hard.  He  waved  the  thought  away.  Then  perhaps  the  text-  books  were  at  fault,  or  his  professors  weren't  communicating  their  enthusi-  asm  to  the  class.  He  shook  his  head.  He  told  her  he  hadn't  looked  at  a  book  for  weeks.  She  became  upset.  Didn't  he  want  to  become  a  lawyer?  Didn't  he  want  to  help  people?  He  reminded  her  that  most  ofthe  newspapers  and  magazines  she  subscribed  to  pointed  out  thatthe  country  was  so  messed  up  that  no  one  could  help.  They  were  right,  he  said.  It  was  useless.  The  im-  portant  thing  was  to  know  when  to  give  up.  Ellen  was  restless  that  night,  and  slept  very  little.  When  she  left  in  the  morning,  she  saw  that  his  door  was  closed.  He  was  not  even  going  through  the  pretense  of  going  to  classes.  She  would  have  to  do  something  to  help  him.  He  should  stay  in  school.  Why  should  he  quit  now?  Ellen  had  trouble  concentrating  that  day.  Everything  the  students  did  irritated  her-even  the  usual  requests  for  pop  favorites.  She  kept  control  of  herself,  though.  It  was  not  right  to  yell  at  them.  She  let  one  of  the  students  in  Junior  Chorus-a  girl  named  Alison,  who  was  taking  piano  lessons-play  the  piano,  while  she  sat  on  her  stool,  looking  out  over  the  blur  of  faces,  joining  without  enthusiasm  in  the  singing  of  &quot;Swanee  River.&quot;  Teach-ing  had  become  mean-  ingless  to  her.  Let  her  husband  vacuum  those  pastel  rugs  in  their  old  house;  let  someone  else  teach  these  students.  She  knew  that  &quot;Swanee  River&quot;  was  a  trivial,  silly  song,  and  she  wanted  three  o'clock  to  come  as  badly  as  the  students  did.  When  the  bell  finally  rang,  she  left  at  once.  She  bought  pastry  at  a  delicatessen,  selecting  cherry  tarts  and  \xc3\xa9clairs.  She  planned  to  have  a  good  dinner,  and  then  a  discussion  in  which  she  would  be  firm  with  Sam.  She  must  make  him  care  again.  But  when  she  got  home  Sam  wasn't  there.  He  didn't  come  home  until  ten  o'clock,  after  she  had  eaten.  She  was  very  relieved  when  he  came  in.  &quot;I  was  at  your  husband's,&quot;  he  said.  Was  this  ajoke?  &quot;No.  He  called  when  you  were  teaching.  He  wanted  to  ask  you  about  some  paper.  We  started  talking  about  law  school.  He  was  disappointed  that  I'd  decided  not  to  go.  He  asked  me  to  come  over.&quot;  Had  he  been  talked  into  going  to  law  school?  &quot;No.  But  your  husband  is  a  very  nice  man.  He  offered  to  write  me  a  recommendation.&quot;  &quot;'Take  it!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;No,  it's  not  worth  the  hassle.  It's  not  worth  all  those  years  of  study,  com-  peting  with  punks.  What  for?&quot;  What  was  there  better  to  do?  &quot;&quot;See  the  country.&quot;  &quot;See  the  country!&quot;  she  repeated.  &quot;Get  a  motorcycle.  Go  out  to  the  Coast.  It's  warm  there.  I'm  sick  of  the  cold.&quot;  There  was  nothing  she  could  say.  She  decided  that  she  was  like  a  mother  whose  son  has  just  told  her  he  wants  to  design  clothes.  Couldn't  he  do  some-  thing  serious?  Couldn't  he  be  an  archi-  tect?  But  she  couldn't  say  this  to  him.  If  he  had  to  go  West,  couldn't  he  at  least  buy  a  car?  He  told  her  it  had  to  be  a  motorcycle.  He  wanted  to  feel  the  handlebars  get  warm  as  he  went  far-  ther  West.  She  went  into  the  kitchen  and  got  the  box  of  pastries.  On  the  way  back  to  the  living  room,  she  clicked  the  thermostat  up  two  degrees.  They  " b"drank  coffee  and  ate  the  \xc3\xa9clairs  and  lit-  tle  tarts.  It  was  a  celebration;  he  was  going  to  do  what  he  was  going  to  do.  She  said  she  would  go  with  himon  the  weekend  to  look  for  a  motorcycle.  N  Monday  he  left.  Just  like  that,  he  was  gone.  He  left  all  his  things  in  his  room.  After  a  few  days,she  realized  that  it  would  be  practical  to  store  his  things  in  the  attic  and  use  his  room  for  a  study,  but  she  couldn't  touch  anything.  She  continued  to  take  care  of  the  room,  but  not  every  day.  Sometimes  when  she  felt  lonely,  she  would  go  in  there  and  look  at  all  his  books  in  the  bookcase.  Other  times,  she  would  clean  the  house  thoroughly  at  night,  with  a  burst  of  energy,  as  if  to make  ready  for  his  re- turn.  One  night  after  she  cleaned,  she  took  some  bottles  of  beer  to  put  in  the  refrigerator,  so  they  would  be  cool  when  she  came  home  from  work.  She  did  not  lose  her  temper  any  more,  but  her  programs  wereno  longer  inno-  vative.  Alison's  piano  playing  guided  the  Junior  Chorus  through  the  world,  sad  and  weary,  through  the  win-  ter  and  into  the  spring.  One  night,  her  hus-  band  called  (he  was  her  ex-husband  now).  He  was  still  trying  to  track  down  the  safe-  deposit  box  where  his  mother  had  placed  her  jewelry.  Quite  a  lot  of  old  pieces  were  there;  there  were  a  few  dia-  monds  and  some  good  jade.  His  mother  was  old;  he  didn't  want  to  disturb  her,  or  make  her  think  of  dying,  and  he  was  embarrassed  to  let  her  know  he'd  mis-  placed  her  instructions.  She  said  she  would  look  for  the  paper  and  call  him  back,  and  he  asked  if  he  could  come  and  look  with  her.  She  said  that  would  be  all  right.  He  came  that  night,  and  she  offered  him  a  beer.  They  looked  through  her  file  and  found  nothing.  &quot;The  paper  has  to  be  some-  where,&quot;  he  said,full  of professional  assurance.  &quot;It  has  to  be  somewhere.&quot;  She  gestured  hopelessly  at  the  rooms  of  the  house;  it  wasn't  in  the  bathroom  or  the  kitchen  or  the  living  room,  and  it  certainly  wasn't  in  Sam's  room.  He  asked  how  Sam  was  doing,  and  she  told  him  she  hadn't  heard  from  him.  Every  day  she  expected  some  word  from  him,  but  none  had  come.  She  didn't  tell  him  that-just  that  she  hadn't  heard.  She  drank  several  beers,  as  shedid  every  night.  They  sat  to-  gether  in  the  living  room,  drinking  beer.  She  asked  if  he  would  like  some-  thing  to  eat,  and  fixed  sandwiches.  He  said  he  would  go,  so  she  could  get  up  in  the  morning.  She  gestured  at  the  rooms  of  the  house.  He  stayed,  and  slept  in  her  bed.  In  the  morning,  Ellen  called  the  school  and  said  she  had  a  cold.  &quot;Every-  body  is  sick,&quot;  the  switchboard  opera-  tor  told  her.  &quot;It's  the  change  in  the  weather.&quot;  She  and  her  husband  took  a  drive  and  went  toa  nice  restaurant  for  lunch.  After  lunch,  they  went  to  his  house  and  hunted  forthe  paper.  They  couldn't  find  it.  He  fixed  her  dinner,  and  she  stayed  at  his  house  that  night.  In  the  morning,  he  dropped  her  off  at  school  on  his  way  to  work.  A  girl  in  Junior  Chorus  came  up  to  talk  to  her  after  class.  Shyly,  the  girl  told  her  she  played  the  piano.  Could  she  also  play  the  piano  for  the  chorus  sometime?  Alison  played  very  well,  the  girl  said  quickly;  she  didn't  want  Alison  to  stop  playing,  but  could  she    \n\n\n\n\n\n \n\n" b"try  sometime,  too?  She  could  read  mu-  sic  well,  and  she  knew  some  classics  and  some  Gilbert  and  Sullivan  and  a  lot  of  popular  songs,  too.  She  mentioned  some  of  them.  Ellen  watched  the  girl  leave,  blushing  with  nervousness  at  having  spoken  to  the  teacher  and  proud  that  she  would  be  allowed  to  play  the  piano  at  the  next  meeting.  She  was  a  tall  girl,  with  brown  hair  that  had  been  cut  too  short;  her  glasses,  which  were  harle-  quin-shape,  looked  more  like  something  the  girl's  mother  would  wear.  Ellen  wondered  if  Sam  had  a  girl  friend.  If  the  girl  friend  had  brown  hair,  did  it  get  tangled  in  the  wind  on  the  motor-  cycle?  Sam  would  have  been  proud  of  her-the  way  she  put  the  new  pianist  at  ease,  feigning  interest  in  the  girl's  talent,  thanking  her  for  volunteering.  The  next  afternoon,  she  thought  of  Sam  again.  He  would  have  found  it  funny  that  the  brown-haired  girl  also  chose  to  play  &quot;Swanee  River.&quot;  Her  husband  came  to  her  house  after  work,  and  they  had  dinner.  She  had  a  postcard  from  Sam.  She  showed  it  to  him-a  picture  of  the  Santa  Monica  Freeway,  clogged  with  cars.  The  message  read,  &quot;The  small  speck  between  the  red  and  the  yellow  car  is  me,  doing  110.  Love,  Sam.&quot;  There  were  no  specks  between  cars,  which  were  themselves  only  specks  in  the  pic-  ture,  but  Ellen  looked  and  smiled  any-  way.  The  next  week  there  was  another  postcard-a  scowling  Indian-which  had  been  mailed  to  her  husband.  Sam  thanked  him  for  the  talk  they  had  be-  fore  he  left.  He  closed  with  some  ad-  vice:  &quot;Come  west.  It's  warm  and  it's  beautiful.  How  do  you  know  until  you  try?  Peace,  Sam.&quot;  Later  that  week,  while  they  were  on  their  way  to  buy  groceries,  a  couple  on  a  motorcycle  came  out  of  nowhere  and  swerved  in  front  of  theircar,  going  much  too  fast.  &quot;Crazy  son  of  abitch!&quot;  her  hus-  band  said,  hitting  the  brakes.  The  girl  on  the  motorcycle  looked  back,  probably  to  assure  herself  that  they  really  had  got  through  safely.  The  girl  was  smiling.  Actually,  the  girl  was  too  far  away  for  Ellen  to  see  her ex-pression  clearly,  but  she  was  certain  she  saw  a  smile.  &quot;Crazy  son  of  a  bitch,&quot;  her  husband  was  saying.  Ellen  closed  her  eyes  and  remembered  being  in  the  motorcycle  shop  with  Sam,  looking  at  the  ma-  chines.  &quot;I  want  one  that  will  do  a  hundred  with  no  sweat,&quot;  Sam  had  said  to  the  salesman.  &quot;All  of  these  will  do  a  hundred  easy,&quot;  the  salesman  said,  smiling  at  them.  &quot;This  one,  then,&quot;  Sam  told  him,  tapping  the  handlebars  of  the  one  he  stood  by.  He  paid  for  most  of  it  with  cash.  She  hadn't  taken  any  rent  money  from  him  for  a  long  time,  so  he  had  a  lot  of  cash.  He  wrote  a  check  to  cover  the  rest  of  it.  The  salesman  was  surprised,  count-  ing  the  bills.  &quot;Do  you  have  streamers?&quot;  Sam  had  asked.  &quot;Streamers?&quot;  &quot;Isn't  that  what  they'recalled?  The  things  kids  have  on  their  bikes?&quot;  The  salesman  smiled.  &quot;We  don't  carry  them.  Guess  you'd  have  to  go  to  a  bicycle  shop.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  I  will,&quot;  Sam  said.  &quot;I've  got  to  go  in  style.&quot;  Ellen  looked  at  her  husband.  How  can  I  be  so  unsympathetic  to  him,  she  wondered.  She  was  angry.  She  should  have  asked  Samwhy  she  felt  that  way  toward  her  husband  sometimes.  He  would  have  explained  it  all  to  her,  patiently,  in  a  late-night  talk.  There  had  been  no  return  address  on  the  postcards.  Some  day,  he  would  send.  his  address,  and  she  could  still  ask  him.  She  could  tell  him  about  the  new  girl  who  could  have  played  any-  thing  she  wanted  and  who  selected  &quot;Swanee  River.&quot;  In  the  car,  with  her  eyes  closed,  she  smiled,  and  ahead  of  them-miles  ahead  of  them  now-so  did  the  girl  on  the  motorcycle.  "