 b"I CAME  to  Chunya  to  see  Eddie.  It  took  two  days  of  hard  driving  from  Dar  es  Salaam,  with  an  over-  night  stop  at  Iringa.  The  rains  had  be-  gun,  and  the  Ruaha  River  flowed  red-  brown  and  swollen  through  baobab  trees  and  small  cultivated  shambas.  We  drove  through  storms  of  lashing  rain  and  past  lorries  overturned  on  their  way  across  [REDACTED].  At  Iringa,  the  hotel  was  damp  and  surrounded  with  dripping  blue  gums.  The  cockroaches  were  out  when  I  turned  on  the  light  in  the  small  hotel  room.  The  brown  bath-  water  was  hot  and  deep,  and  I  soaked  in  it  until  the  African  waiter  brought  my  tea  and  toast.  The  mosquito  net,  blotched  with  the  bloodstains  of  old  kills,  was  my  protection  in  bed  from  the  singing  mosquitoes.  My  last  thought  be-  fore  sleep  was  that  I  had  to  be  back  in  Dar  in  time  to  catch  the  charter  flight  home  to  [REDACTED].  I  had  only  the  one  day  to  spend  with  my  uncle.  Early  next  morning,  I  stopped  off  at  the  duke  in  Mbeya,  the  regional  capital,  to  buy  him  supplies.  The  store  was  stocked  with  the  brands  of  tinned  goods  I  remembered  well  from  my childhood.  Now,  too,  there  were  the  Chinese  imports.  I  ordered  tea,  coffee,  powdered  milk,  corned  beef,  spaghetti  sauce,  and  sausages,  then  some  canned  fruit  and  soups.  From  his  perch  on  the  wooden  ladder,  the  African  assistant  handed  the  tins  down  to  the  Asian  shopkeeper.  I  added  six  bottles  of  Tusker  beer,  a  bottle  of  Scotch,  and  the  daily  paper.  I  wondered  if  Eddie  had  any  teeth  left.  He  would  be  eighty-two  now.  We  last  met  more  than  thirty  years  ago.  I  was  a  young  girl  when  I  left  Grandmother  Emily's  for  school  in  [REDACTED],  but  he  had  come  to  know  me  well  through  my  long  letters  written  over  the  years.  He  knew  I  had  sepa-  rated  from  my  husband  and  that  Mother  had  died.  There  were  no  chil-  dren,  and  living  alone,  with  a  small  in-  come  and  noone  but  myself  to  con-  sider,  I  was  free  to  make  this  journey  to  Eddie,  From  Naivasha,  where  I  had  stopped  with  old  friends,  I  had  tele-  graphed,  telling  Eddie  the  day  I  was  coming.  He  was  the  only  father  I  had  known.  When  we  arrived  at  the  small  vil-  lage  of  Chunya,  my  driver  asked  the  whereabouts  of  the  European  asker,  and  we  were  told  that  the  old  soldier  lived  down  the  road,  in  the  old  duke  opposite  the  496e646961n  shop.  We  drove  slowly  past  the  few  mud  huts  lining  the  short  main  street,  and  I  saw  him  before  we  stopped  the  car.  He  was  standing  on  his  stoep,  leaning  against  one  of  the  wooden  posts,  hands  in  the  pockets  of  his  cardigan,  scanning  the  road  from  Mbeya.  I  remember  the  moment  exactly.  I  am  out  and  shouting  and  running  up  the  deep  steps  to  him.  We  hug  each  other  tightly  and  laugh  when  we  stumble  on  the  uneven  steps.  The  village  loungers  gape  and  grin.  He  is  taller  than  I  remember  and  still  up-  right  and  slim.  Bluer  eyes  than  I  re-  member,  sparkling  behind  his  spectacles.  High  cheekbones  accentuated  by  the  hollow  of  his  empty  gums.  Two  teeth,  I  see.  &quot;Darling,  come  in.  Come  in  and  have  some  tea,&quot;  he  says.  We  step  over  the  wooden  threshold  and  through  the  double  shop  doors.  We  cross  a  large  windowless  room,  once  the  premises  of  a  prosperous  duke,  dark  and  bare  except  for  a  neat  stack  of  kerosene  tins  in  the  corner  and  an  empty  African  charcoal  burner.  The  concrete  floor  is  packed  hard  with  dust,  and  there  is  a  threadbare  mat  at  the  entrance  to  the  two  small  rooms  at  the  back  of  the  empty  shop.  &quot;My  home,&quot;  he  says  with  a  broad  smile  and  outflung  arms.  He  lets  fall  a  red  cotton  curtain  that  hangs  across  the  doorway  to  his  living  quarters.  It  shields  us  from  the  loafers  outside;  then  he  takes  my  hand  and  holds  it  to  his  chest.  &quot;You're  here  at  last!  I  got  your  telegram  and  knew  you  wouldn't  make  it  from  Dar  by  nightfall.  Bloody  awful  road  isn't  it?  Where  did  you  stay?  At  Iringa?  Are  the  496e646961ns  still  running  it?&quot;  All  at  once,  I  hurry  out  to  the  car  to  stop  my  driver  from  bringing  in  the  supplies,  for  I  am  suddenly  ashamed  that  he  should  see  how  my  uncle  lives.  &quot;I  brought  some  things-some  whis-  key!&quot;  I  shout  to  Eddie.  &quot;Can't  hear  a  bloody  thing  today,&quot;  he  complains.  &quot;It's  been  like  this  since  the  First  World  War.  They  had  me  here  with  the  Infantry.  Marching  sup-  plies,  you  know.  Wonderful  time  we  had.  The  rains  were  on,  so  we  only  marched  eight  hours  a  day.  Then  the  damn  bomb  dropped.  Just  down  the  road,  on  the  way  to  Iringa.  Right  in  a  saucepan  next  to  me,  and  bang  went  my  hearing.  Here,  let  me  help  you,  darling.&quot;  Kneeling  on  the  mat,  I  unpack  the  " b"food  I  have  carried  in  and  then  wonder  where  to  put  it.  I  point  to  a  tall  wooden  cupboard.  Its  wire-mesh  doors  are  lined  inside  with  faded  cretonne,  and  it  is  padlocked  top  and  bottom.  &quot;Yes,  put  the  stuff  in  there,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;'They  haven't  broken  those  locks  yet.&quot;  Carefully,  he  unlocks  the  cupboard,  and  I  see  thick  dust  encrusting  his  few  bits  of  crock-  ery.  I  move  an  open  packet  of  Green  Label  tea  and  a  large,  dented  tinfilled  with  sugar,  making  room  for  the  bright  new  tins  of  food,  and  I  heap  them  upon  the  narrow  shelves.  &quot;It  looks  like  a  bally  shop!&quot;  he  cries.  &quot;Whiskey,  too.  My  God!  I'll  give  it  to  Visram.  He's  good  to  me.  He  owns  the  duka  across  the  road.  You'll  be  lunching  with  him.  His  mother  is  an  excellent  cook.  [REDACTED]  woman.  Have  an  arrangement  with  them  to  send  my  food  over  twice  a  day.  That  way,  I  don't  have  to  bother  with  cooking.  Here,  sit  down  in  this  chair.  The  honored  chair.  I'll  put  the  kettle  on.&quot;  I  sink  down  in  the  low  lumpy  arm-  chair,  watching  him  walk  briskly  through  the  narrow  doorway  that  leads  into  his  small  bedroom.  The  Afri-  can  wooden  bed  takes  up  most  of  the  room's  space;  it  is  neatly  covered  with  a  gray  army  blanket.  On  the  far  side,  against  the  wall,  there  is  a  table  for  his  kerosene  burner  and  kettle.  He  sits  with  his  back  to  me  on  the  bed  and  pumps  the  pressure  up  toboil  the  wa-  ter.  I  hear  the  whoosh  as  the  burner  ig-  nites.  I  see  his  old  raincoat  and  hat  hanging  limp  on  the  bedroom  door.  Abruptly  he  is  backwith  two  packs  of  imported  cigarettes.  He  places  them  with  a  flourish  on  the  stained  coffee  ta-  ble  next  to  me.  &quot;Those  are  in  honor  of  you!  Had  a  pack  out  ready  for  you  this  morning,  but  the  kids  must  have  pinched  them.&quot;  He  drags  outa  buckled  pack  of  local  Clippers  from  his  pocket.  &quot;I  always  smoke  this  kind.&quot;  He  straightens  the  teacups  that  are  laid  out  on  a  deal  table  covered  with  a  neat  and  faded  cloth.  As  he  bustles  back  to  the  burner,  some  children  ap-  pear  in  the  back  doorway  and  stand  quietly,  staring  at  me.  I  stare  back,  wanting  them  to  go  away.  Eddie,  re-  turning,  sees  them  and  smiles  and  waves.  Carefully,  he  places  the  hot  teapot  down  on  the  table  among  the  lanterns,  the  orderly  bundles  of  let-  ters,  and  the  curling  photographs.  &quot;The  kids  are  so  excited  about  your  visit,  darling,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;They  love  my  photographs.  They  pinched  the  large  ones  you  sent  me.  Have  to  lock  up  my  little  radio.  Same  with  the  alarm.  They  like  tofiddle  with  things.  Take  things  to  pieces.  I  was  the  same  as  a  kid.  Loved  to  fiddle.&quot;  He  sits  upright  in  his  straight-backed  wooden  chair  and  stirs  the  teapot  slowly  before  letting  it  draw.  &quot;God,  don't  know  what  I'd  do  with-  out  my  little  radio.  Luckily,  my  right  ear  clears  in  the  evenings  and  the  deaf-  ness  goes.  It's  the  discharge  that  keeps  the  line  open  !&quot;  His  face  splits  into  a  smile.  The  children  drift  off  slowly.  I  move  to  a  chair  by  the  table  to  pour  the  tea  and  to  sit  nearer  to  him,.  The  tea  is  delicious.  &quot;Sometimes  I  can  hear  a  little  dur-  ing  the  day,  but  today  of  all  days  it's  all  closed  up  on  me.&quot;  He  stirs  his  tea  care-  fully.  &quot;You  know,  in  the  last  war  they  moved  me  from  the  Infantry  to  clerk  work.  Bloody  awful  it  was.  No  privacy.  First  time  and  the  last.&quot;  He  lights  up  our  cigarettes.  His  fingers,  small  and  unwrinkled,  are  stained  with  nicotine.  &quot;This  is  where  I  will  die,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Yes,  this  is  where  I  will  die.&quot;  He  grins,  slapping  the  arms  of  the  chair,  and  the  lanterns  and  tea  things  rattle  on  the  table.  I  HAVE  taken  to  writing  my  ques-  tions  on  scraps  of  paper.  He  an-  swers  them  sharply  and  easily,  switch-  ing  his  thoughts  effortlessly.  It  is  hard  for  me  to  remember  that  he  is  deaf  and  eighty-two.  I  try  to  use  each  mo-  ment  well.  His  voice  is  clear  and  strong,  with  the  slight  singsong  sound  that  suggests  years  spent  in  496e646961  and  East  Africa.  &quot;Don't  throw  any  of  those  scraps  away,  darling,&quot;  he  tells  me.  &quot;I'll  treasure  them  and  read  them  again  and  again.&quot;  Then,  rising,  he  calls  over  my  head,  &quot;Ah,  Visram!  Come  in.  Come  in  and  be  introduced.&quot;  Visram  steps  in,  an  opened  bottle  of  Coke  in  each  hand  and  a  shy  smile  creasing  his  fat  face.  He  puts  down  the  Cokes,  and  shakes  hands  with  me  for-  mally.  &quot;Sit  down,  my  dear  fellow!&quot;  Eddie  says.  &quot;In  the  honored  chair.  I've  got  a  bottle  of  whiskey  for  you!  You  know,  darling,  you  were  to  spend  the  night  at  his  place,  Never  mind.  You'll  be  lunching  over  there.  It's  all  arranged.&quot;  The  496e646961n  lowers  his  plump  body  into  the  armchair,  and  I  get  out  the  bottle  of  whiskey  from  the  cupboard,  I  wipe  the  dust  off  two  smudged  glasses  and  pour  out  a  couple  of  large  shots.  Eddie  pours  a  little  water  into  the  glasses.  He  drinks  and  smacks  his  lips.  &quot;Marvellous  stuff.  Did  you  get  it  in  Dar?  Good  for  all  sorts  of  things.&quot;  I  drink  some  warm  Coke  from  the  bottle.  Visram  watches  me  closely.  He  forgets  that  I  am  not  deaf  like  Eddie  and,  carefully  mouthing  each  word,  he  says  in  a  singsong  English  accent  imita-  tive  ofEddie's,  &quot;Please,  Madam,  to  have  some  whiskey,  too.  I  have  some  whis-  key  in  my  duke.  Three  bottles  I  have.&quot;  &quot;So,  Visram,  you  didn't  tell  me  the  truth,  eh?&quot;  says  Eddie.  &quot;Kept  quiet  about  them.&quot;  Visram,  caught  out,  nods  his  head  from  side  to  side  and  grins.  Laughing,  I  hold  Eddie's  hands  in  mine.  They  are  warm  now.  As  Visram  starts  asking  me  endless  questions  about  my  journey,  Eddie  cuts  in  across  the  singsong  voice.  &quot;He  can  sink  a  bottle  without  turning  a  hair,  this  fellow  can.&quot;  Visram  grins  with  pleasure  and  in-  " b"sists  on  lighting  our  cigarettes  with  his  Chinese  lighter.  &quot;It's  gas.  And  it  was  cheap  and  it  still  works,&quot;  he  says,  push-  ing  the  lighter  into  Eddie's  hands.  &quot;Have  it.  Please  to  have  it.&quot;  Scarcely  glancing  at  the  lighter,  Eddie  returns  it  to  Visram.  &quot;Marvel  lous  these  new  contraptions.  Never  had  any  luck  with  them  myself.  Cameras,  cars-hopeless.  Now,  horses-that's  different.  Have  precognizant  dreams,  you  know.  Dreamt  about  the  Queen's  race  horse  that  fell.  What  was  its  name?&quot;  Clasping  his  forehead,  he  wig-  gles  it  up  and  down.  &quot;No,  it's  gone.  God,  my  memory  is  going!&quot;  Suddenly  he  turns  his  glass  upside  down  and  a  few  drops  of  whiskey  fall  to  thedusty  floor.  &quot;My  glass  is  empty  already!  Darling,  let's  get  tight!  My  God,  Muhammad-I  mean,  Visram-  have  you  a  red  pencil?  Must  circle  to-  day's  date  in  red.  What  a  day!  Will  remember  it  forever.&quot;  &quot;What  a  red  day,  [REDACTED];  agrees  Vis-  ram.  &quot;But  who  will  cook  for  you  when  we  have  gone,  sir?  I  am  worried  for  your  uncle,  Madam  .  ..&quot;  I  write  out  a  question  for  Eddie  and  hand  it  over  to  him.  He  reads  it  quickly  and  says,  &quot;Ah  yes,  darling.  I  know  you  were  in  Bangalore  last  year.  Got  your  letters.  I  was  educated  there  by  the  Jesuits,&quot;  he  explains  to  Visram.  &quot;Loved  496e646961  myself.  Especially  Dhar-  war.  Never  told  this  to  anyone  before,  but  when  I  was  a  boy  there  I  started  a  kind  of  Scout  group.  Long  before  Baden-Powell  and  that  mob.&quot;  Visram  interrupts.  &quot;Mrs.  Baden-  Powell  came  here.&quot;  He  repeats  it  for  Eddie.  &quot;Mrs.  Baden-Powell  came  here,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;Well,  the  district  commissioner  caught  us  all  pinching  some  fruit  from  a  farm,&quot;  Eddie  continues.  &quot;Avery.  That  was  his  name.  He  hauled  us  into  his  office.  He  said,  'This  won't  do  at  all,  young  Edward.  Not  at  all&quot;  Pro-  ceeded  to  pull  down  my  pants  and  give  me  a  jolly  good  thrashing.  God,  I  felt  such  a  fool  in  front  of  those  young  fellows.  I  was  always  pro-496e646961,  you  know.  After  the  whipping  I  said,  'You're  going  tolose  496e646961,  Mr.  Avery.  Well,  he  sent  off  for  my  fa-  ther,  who  was  his  A.D.C.  then.  Said  to  him,  'You  don't  appear  to  have  much  control  over  this  young  chap!'  So  I  got  it  again  from  my  father.  But  Avery  was  all  right.  Dharwar.  Dhar-war.&quot;  He  lingers  lovingly  over  each  syllable.  &quot;I  think  of  those  days  the  most.&quot;  He  takes  a  long  draw  on  his  whiskey.  &quot;How  is  the  hearing  today,  sir?&quot;  shouts  and  mimes  Visram.  &quot;Bloody  awfull  'The  one  day  she  comes,  and  what  does  she  find?  This  deaf  old  thing!&quot;  Eddie  squashes  his  nose  flat  with  his  forefinger.  I  place  my  hand  on  his  bony  knee  and  kiss  his  check.  &quot;Ho,  ho!  I'm  getting  tight!  Now,  look  at  these  trousers,  darling.  Patched  and  patched  again.  But  still  warm  after  seven  years'  wear.  When  are  you  going  to  get  me  another  good  pair  like  this,  Visram?  None  ofthat  Chinese  muck,  mind.  I  want  good  British  material  that  holds  a  straight  crease.&quot;  &quot;Impossible,  sir!  You  know  I  can  only  get  Chinese  stuff  or  Terylene.&quot;  Visram  swallows  up  the  last  of  his  whiskey  and  turns  to  me.  &quot;My  brother  is  a  tailor-a  very  good  tailor-and  can  measure  him,  but  he  won't  have  them  made  up.  He  is  as  a  grandfather  to  me.  Who  will  cook  his  meals  after  we  go  to  [REDACTED]?  Oh,  I  am  worried  for  him.  You  know,  my  father  expired  six  months  ago.  He  was  a  very  re-  ligious  man,  and  we  had  a  hundred  and  twenty  people  at  the  burial  cere-  mony.  They  all  fitted  in  easily.  My  shop  and  house  are  very  big.  When  he  expired,  I  was  in  Dar  es  Salaam,  and  quickly  I  returned  here.  My  father  used  to  be  over  here  every  day,  talk-  ing  about  496e646961  just  as  I  do  now.&quot;  They  watch  me  closely  as  I  refill  the  glasses,  Visram  is  jiggling  up  and  down  in  the  honored  chair  as  Eddie  insists  that  Visram's  father  would  have  found  the  British  cloth.  &quot;His  father  was  a  good  chap.  But  I  didn't  go  over  for  his  burial  shindig.  Can't  stand  crowds  now  that  I'm  deaf.  That's  why  I  won't  come  over  to  Visram's  for  lunch  today,  darling.  Always  eat  alone.&quot;  There  are  high-pitched  moans  from  Visram.  Whiskey  in  one  hand,  he  cov-  ers  his  eyes  and  then  wipes  his  face  as  tears  dribble  down  his  fat  cheeks.  I  pat  his  knee  to  comfort  him,  He  blinks  and  nods  his  head  as  he  struggles  to  focus  his  liquid  brown  eyes,  Clearly,  itis  well  past  our  lunchtime.  I  am  not  hungry  and  I  do  not  want  to  leave  Eddie  for  a  moment.  But  he  must  eat.  I  ask  him  to  join  us  at  Visram's,  but  he  refuses.  Visram  and  I  leave  by  the  back  door.  As  we  walk  down  the  overgrown  pathway  at  the  side  of  the  house,  Eddie  comes  after  us,  flapping  his  arms  up  and  down  and  laughing.  &quot;Don't  forget  to  send  my  food,  Visram,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I'm  starving.&quot;  VISRAM  and  I  cross  the  uneven  road  and  go  through  Visram's  shop.  It  is  the  only  dwka  in  Chunya,  and  stocks  a  bit  of  everything.  I  shake  hands  with  his  mother,  who  sits,  fat  and  cross-  legged,  behind  the  long  wooden  count-  er.  The  large  room  behind  the  shop  is  unpainted  and  dark,  but  a  shaft  of  afternoon  light  streams  through  the  open  back  door.  A  big  table,  pushed  to  one  wall,  has  been  covered  with  a  fresh,  patterned  tablecloth.  Dishes  of  food  are  already  on  the  table.  There  is  boiled  rice,  chapatties,  curried  meat,  and  fresh  spinach,  as  well  as  a  huge  plate  of  hot  crusty  semosas  filled  with  curried  ground  meat.  A  jug  of  curds  waits  to  be  poured.  Visram's  brothers  join  us,  and  I  " b"meet  his  wife  and  little  girls,  who  tum-  blein  the  back  door.  I  hear  the  heavy  wooden  shop  doors  slamming  shut,  and  then  Visram's  mother,  walking  with  difficulty,  comes  to  the  table  and  starts  ladling  out  the  food.  I  am  watched  closely.  The  hot  spicy  food  sticks  in  my  throat  asI  try  to  answer  the  innumer-  able  questions  that  are  flung  at  me.  An  African  boy  comes  through  the  back  door,  speaks  rapidly  to  Visram's  mother,  and  places  two  covered  plates  on  the  table.  Then  he  leaves.  Visram  explains  that  Eddie's  place  is  all  locked  up  and  the  boy  has  returned  Eddie's  lunch.  Eddie  had  told  us  he  was  hun-  gry.  Stuffing  another  piece  of  dripping  chapatty  into  his  mouth,Visram  says,  &quot;Oh,  he's  just  locked  himself  in.  To  get  some  rest,  you  know.  The  children  must  be  teasing  him  again.&quot;  The  large  wall  clock  ticks  loudly  as  everyone  fin-  ishes  up  his  lunch.  Slowly,  Visram's  mother  gets  up  from  the  table  and  lumbers  back  to  the  shop.  The  little  girls,  milky  dribbles  on  their  checks,  nestle  up  to  Visram  as  he  settles  himself  cross-legged  on  his  chair  and  lights  a  cigarette.  I  rise  suddenly.  I  must  leave  Chunya  well  before  sun-  set  if  I  am  to  catch  my  plane  tomorrow  night  at  Dar  es  Salaam.  I  take  leave  of  the  family,  and  with  Visram  trotting  behind  me  I  cross  the  road.  HE  mist  is  thickening  in  the  late  afternoon.  'The  front  doors  are  open  now,  and  as  we  pass  through  the  empty  front  room  I  forget  Eddie  is  deaf  and  call  out  to  him  anxiously.  He  is  not  sitting  in  the  straight-backed  chair,  and  I  glance  into  the  tiny  bedroom.  He  is  stretched  out  on  his  wooden  bed,  fast  asleep.  I  sit  quietly  on  his  bed.  There  is  a  large  zinc  buck-  et  filled  with  clean  water  placed  at  the  foot  of  the  bed,  with  soap  and  a  fold-  ed  towel  on  a  stool  next  to  it.  The  heavy  wooden  shutters  are  wide  open.  His  mouth  hangs  open,  and  the  deep  hollows  of  his  cheeks  shudder  slowly  as  he  exhales.  His  hands  arefolded  on  his  chest  and  his  skin  is  gray  in  the  half-  light.  The  sheets  under  him  are  yellow-  brown  from  years  of  washing  in  river  water.  I  stroke  his  shoulder  softly  to  awaken  him.  He  sits  up.  His  blueeyes  stare  into  mine.  Slowly  recognition  comes,  and  he  sighs  and  shakes  his  head  gently.  He  scratches  his  head.  &quot;I  was  just  thinking.  It's  nearly  time.  You  must  leave  for  Iringa  ...&quot;  I  hold  him  close  for  a  moment.  He  fumbles  in  his  pocket  for  his  cigarettes.  After  he  lights  up,  we  slowly  go  into  the  other  room.  Visram  is  still  there,  again  sitting  in  the  honored  chair.  &quot;My  God,  sir.  You   have  no  mosquito  net,  sir!&quot;  he  shouts  to  Eddie.  &quot;You  must  have  a  net.  It's  a  bad  time  for  mosquitoes.  I  have  an  ex-  cellent  net.&quot;  Eddie  hears  Visram  and  grimaces.  &quot;Never  used  'em.  Never  will.  Just  swat  the  little  bastards.  Time  enough  for  a  shroud  when  I'm  dead!  It's  bad  enough  having  to  put  my  hat  on  in  bed  when  the  bloody  rain  pours  through  the  roof!&quot;  His  voice  is  crisp  again.  He  crosses  his  legsas  he  sits  in  the  straight-backed  chair,  and  adjusts  his  faded  cravat,  tucking  it  neatly  into  his  white  shirt  collar.  Then,  getting  up  suddenly,  he  goes  to  a  teak  chest  half  hidden  by  the  open  back  door.  He  eases  out  the  warped  top  drawer  and  turns  to  me.  &quot;Look  at  these  letters,  darling.  I'm  having  sucha  showrt  with  the  British  High  Commission.&quot;  He  passes  a  bundle  of  letters  clipped  together  in  consecutive  order,  accord-  ing  to  date,  with  sentences  underlined  in  pencil.  I  see  the  carbon  copies  of  his  replies,  written  in  the  strong  square  writing  I  know  so  well.  &quot;It's  all  over  a  clerical  error  made  months  ago!&quot;  he  says.  &quot;They're  a  month  behind  with  my  pension.  I  have  written  again  and  again  to  them.  I  do  wish  youhad  more  time  in  Dar  to  see  them  for  me.&quot;  Eddic  takes  back  the  letters  and  then  pulls  out  an  old  envelope  stuffed  with  photos.  &quot;See,  Visram.  She  sent  me  these  through  all  those  years.&quot;  He  replaces  the  yellowing  photos,  slams  the  drawer  shut,  and,  hitching  his  belt  over  his  narrow  hips,  returns  to  his  wooden  chair.  &quot;Friends  were  always  taking  pictures  here  in  the  old  gold-mining  days.  'The  Russians  are  mining  here  now,  you  know.  It  won't  pay  them.&quot;  Those  Russians  are  very  mean.  I  make  no  money  out  of  them,&quot;  shouts  Visram.  Eddic  points  out  to  the  front  stoep.  &quot;I  see  them  sometimes  when  I'm  walking  my  fort.  They  keep  them-  selves  to  themselves.  We  nod  at  each  other  now,  which  is  great  progress.  You  know,  when  they  first  arrived  " b"their  women  began  to  dress  like  our  African  girls.  Mind  you,  our  African  girls  are  dressing  very  nicely  these  days.  Don't  you  think  so,  Visram?&quot;  Visram  grimaces.  &quot;Oh,  Visram,  the  trouble  with  you  is  you  like  nobody!  Nobody!  He  hates  the  Africans,  darling!&quot;  &quot;No,  no,no.  That  is  not  so.  You  see,  that  is  not  so  at  all.  I  am  a  re-  ligious  fellow,  a  follower  of  the  Aga  Khan.  He  is  our  supernatural  leader,  you  know.&quot;  Visram  lowers  his  voice.  &quot;I  am  born  here,  but  the  Africans  make  it  difficult  for  me.  They  want  us  to  go,  sothe  taxes  are  made  even  higher  than  before  and  I  am  unhappy.  Think,  sir,  I  used  to  live  here  in  your  house  and  then  I  make  much  money  and  built  myself  the  duke  and  big  house.  I  make  more  money  and  I  am  a  happy  fellow.  But  now  we  must  go  and  leave  all  behind.  Ob,  I  am  an  un-  happy  fellow,  I  can  tell  you!&quot;  &quot;Come  on,  Visram,&quot;  Eddie  says.  &quot;You've  just  got  too  much  money.  You  Aga  Khan  fellows  are  all  the  same.&quot;  Eddie  pulls  another  cigarette  from  his  crumpled  packet,  but  his  old  petrol  lighter  slips  through  his  fingers  as  he  tries  to  light  up.  Visram  and  I  jump  to  retrieve  it,  banging  our  heads  together  under  the  table.  Visram  triumphantly  hands  it  to  Eddie.  The  table  is  neat  again.  The  tea  things,  the  dirty  glasses,  and  the  half-empty  bottle  of  whiskey  have  been  cleared  away  by  Eddie.  The  notebook  pages  scribbled  with  my  ques-  tions  lie  in  a  small  pile.  Eddie  inhales  slowly.  The  cigarette  dangles  loosely  from  his  nicotined  fingers.  It  is  time  for  me  to  leave.  My  driv-  er,  I  see,  has  pulled  up  outside  the  stoep.  He  stands,  leaning  against  the  car,  looking  in  at  us.  Night  falls  quick-  ly  here,  and  the  road  is  wet  mud  for  fifty  miles.  Eddie  sits  smoking  quietly.  He  looks  tired.  I  want  to  be  alone  with  him.  &quot;Please,  Visram,&quot;  I  say  quietly.  &quot;Please.  I  will  see  you  outside?&quot;  Playing  with  his  Chinese  lighter,  &gt;  Visram  shambles  off  through  the  shop.  Eddie  looks  after  him  as  he  goes.  &quot;He  misses  his  father,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;His  moth-  er's  a  good  cook,  isn't  she?  Reminds  me  of  Mother's  496e646961n  cooking.&quot;  Eddie  jabs  out  his  cigarette  in  the  tin  ashtray  at  his  elbow.  He  pulls  the  lobe  of  his  ear.  &quot;Mother  was  very  young  when  she  married  Father  and  went  off  to  496e646961  withhim.  He  was  years  older.  Mother  studied  Hindustani  in  Dharwar,  you  know.  She  used  to  swap  recipes  with  an  496e646961n  woman  down  the  street.  Father  was  tickled  pink  with  the  496e646961n  cooking.  Often  wondered  how  the  496e646961n  family  liked  Yorkshire  pudding.  .  .  .  They  both  died  in  their  seventy-fourth  year.&quot;  His  gaze  is  calm  and  distant.  &quot;You  know,  dar-  ling,&quot;  he  says  to  me,  &quot;all  I  clearly  re-  member  of  you  is  bouncing  you  on  my  knee.  Up  and  down  to  Banbury  Cross.&quot;  HERE  is  a  slight  rumble  of  dis-  tant  thunder,.  I  look  around  for  my  things.  Eddie  slowly  stands  up  and  stretches  his  arms  out  to  me.  &quot;Oh,  what  a  memorable  day.  A  memorable  day,  darling,&quot;  he  says,  stroking  my  hair.  &quot;And  I  know  I  will  see  you  again.  I  know  it.&quot;  I  collect  my  handbag,  brush  off  my  skirt.  Hands  in  his  pockets,  he  looks  ab-  sently  around  the  small  room.  &quot;Now,  don't  leave  anything  behind.  Are  you  sure  you've  got  everything?  Don't  leave  anything  behind.  That  would  never  do.&quot;  We  go  through  the  dark  empty  shop  and  out  to  the  stoep,.  Dusk  has  set  in.  The  loafers  are  still  there.  The  driverwaits  in  the  car.  Visram  is  no-  where  to  be  seen.  There  is  nothing  left  to  do.  I  kiss  the  hollow  cheek  quickly.  I  run  down  the  deep  steps  and  get  into  the  car.  As  I  roll  down  the  window,  the  car  leaps  forward.  I  wave  through  the  window,  looking  back  at  him  stand-  ing  on  his  stoep.  He  waves  back  and  then  disappears  from  sight.  We  start  the  descent  to  Mbeya.  I  look  back  and  see  an  orange  sun  pierc-  ing  the  gray  rain  clouds.  It  sinks  swift-  ly,  wrapping  the  Chunya  Mountains  in  the  rain,  the  mists,  the  hills.  There  has  been  no  sun  for  two  days,  but  now  as  I  look  back  the  red  fingers  are  there  and  the  hills  are  becoming  deeper  blue-  deeper  blue,  then  purple,  then  night.  I  light  up  one  of  Eddie's  cigarettes.  I  know  this  journey  has  been  for  me,  not  him.  I  will  never  see  Eddie  again,  but  he  belongs  to  me  now.  If  the  weather  holds,  we  should  make  Iringa  late  to-  night,  and  I  will  be  in  Dar  in  time  for  my  charter  tomorrow.  "