 b"THE  head  doctor  at  the  nerve  hospital  took  part  of  a  morning  with  me.  He  had  a  glass  office,  right  in  the  midst  of  all  his  other  pa-  tients,  and  he  called  for  Roxie  Stoner  and  sat  me  down  so  there  was  just  us  two.  He  was  happy,  he  said,  that  I  was  settled  now  and  that  I  liked  to  do  for  people.  I  didn't  seem  to  mind  being  locked  up  with  anybody  if  I  could  help  them  feel  better,  and  that  was  all  by  itself  a  good  thing.  The  trouble  was  that  who-  ever  I  got  in  with  I  started  to  celebrate.  That  was  why  we  were  here  in  the  nerve  hospital,  he  said-we  had  tried  to  force  the  world  to  our  way  and  the  world  had  gotten  too  much  now  to  fool  with.  There  was  one  and  only  one  lesson  I  had  to  learn.  I  could  not  turn  people  loose.  This  was  overrulement,  the  doctor  said,  or  in  other  words  not  minding.  Mama  always  did  say  what-  ever  it  was  went  wrong  it  was  due  to  me  not  minding.  I  could  tell  this  doctor  was  trying  to  take  her  place  and  keep  me  straightened  out.  He  was  mighty  young  to  be  so  wise.  I  would  do  my  best,  I  said,  and  I  guessed  it  was  about  right  he  took  the  other  people,  my  time  must  be  up.  Some  were  coughing  and  other  ones  of  them  seemed  about  slipping  off  their  chairs.  I  thanked  him  and  had  my  hand  on  the  door  when  he  rised  up  and  sat  me  back  again.  There  I  went,  he  said,  trying  to  overrule.  I  hadn't  even  heard  what  he  wanted  me  to  do  and  I  was  going  out  the  door.  He  had  this  white  boy  for  me  that  really  needed  help,  There  wasn't  a  bit  of  doubt  I  would  be  the  best  person  to  station  in  there  with  him  and  call  myself  his  nurse.  He  had  a  lot  of  worry  over  nothing.  He  loved  rubbing,  the  doctor  said,  and  he  knew  I  was  good  at  that,  but  no  regular  woman  would  stay  with  him  and  men  just  messed  him  up.  Give  him  my  usual  care,  the  doctor  said,  like  I  did  my  other  sick  folks,  and  help  him  ease  his  mind.  I  thought  we  were  through  again,  but  I  sat  still  this  time  and  directly  he  went  on.  It  was  the  only  son  (Son  was  what  they  called  him)  of  a  couple  rich  in  Jackson,  and  their  main  thought  all  of  Son's  life  was  to  keep  him  pleased  and  well.  After  they  got  him  raised  they  sent  him  off  to  college,  but  he  never  did  come  back.  Or  he  did  come  back  but  not  with  any  signings.  It  was  usually  with  a  friend  man  or  in  an  ambulance.  In  college,  just  like  here  at  the  hospital-and  we  were  up  to  the  main  fact  of  the  business-Son  Aad  to  be  to  sleep.  Most  people,  the  doctor  said,  can  stand  ten  hours  of  daylight.  Son  couldn't  put  up  with  any  of  it  at  all,  not  even  plain  resting.  He  wanted  to  be  sofar  asleep  you  couldn't  wake  him  up,.  His  people  had  tried  alarm  clocks,  had  even  hired  kickers,  and  gone  on  up  to  doctors,  but  nothing  did  any  good.  The  minute  they  forced  him  he  went  to  swallowing  pills.  He  would  take  his  pills  with  whiskey  and  it  ought  to  have  long  since  killed  him,  but  he  was  the  picture  of  health.  He  just  would  not  stay  awake.  I  was  as  interested  as  I  could  be  to  hear  about  this  poor  boy  and  have  a  chance  to  nurse  him.  His  parents  had  given  wings  to  the  hospital,  the  doctor  said,  and  that  was  why,  in  casting  around  for  somebody  to  station  in  there  withhim,  they  had  finally  hit  on  me.  Every  once  in  a  while  he  got  better,  and  then  I  could  go  home  with  him.  They  had  a  special  set  of  rooms  there,  with  music  playing  and  books,  but  they  had  to  keep  somebody  with  him  every  single  minute.  When  his  pills  and  things  got  to  the  place  they  didn't  work,  like  happened  sometimes,  I  could  slip  and  tell  his  papa  and  they'd  call  the  Rescue  Squad  to  bring  him  back  to  the  hos-  pital.  At  his  house  they  had  a  side  door  and  ivy-covered  walls  to  pass  the  stretcher  through.  Now  I  have  got  to  understand  all  this,  I  thought  to  myself,  if  I  am  going  to  have  him.  I  am  supposed  to  tend  him  here,  then  go  home  with  him  when-  ever  he  gets  better,  then  come  straight  back  when  they  call  the  Rescue  Squad.  With  such  a  fast-moving  person,  it  seemed  like  the  sleeping  part  went  crosswise  of  the  case.  The  doctor  was  standing  up  now  and  he  took  me  by  the  arm  past  all  the  other  waiters  and  on  over  to  a  side  of  the  hospital  I  never  had  been  to.  He  knocked  on  a  door  and  another  doctor  opened  it  with  what  sounded  like  a  bolt.  Son  was  doing  fine,  the  other  doc-  tor  said,  and  he  asked  mehow  I  was,  and  both  of  them  said  good  luck-I  had  about  their  most  important  case.  He  wouldn't  harm  me  to  any  extent  whatsoever,  they  said,  he  was  in  a  good  stage  now,  so  take  it  easy  and  look  at  his  magazines.  Over  on  the  bed  was  a  fine  big  boy,  just  about  grown,  I  guess,  and  he  was " b" sound  asleep.  He  breathed  far  apart  and  when  he  did  take  a  breath  it  sounded  like  he  needed  that  air  mighty  bad-his  mouth  was  open  and  he  sucked  it  in  like  he  was  about  to  drown.  He  was  pretty  as  he  could  be,  such  a  well  grown  boy  down  in  the  bed  with  nothing  wrong  but  sleeping!  His  family  must  ofsent  some  of  their  finery  to  the  hospital.  There  were  big  silky  chairs  and  velvet  curtains,  and  sunshine  was  coming  in.  There  was  a  bathroom  and  another  little  room  with  a  bed  in  it  that  must  be  meant  for  me,  but  how  in  the  world  could  I  watch  him  from  way  in  there,  especially  in  the  nighttime?  A  person  that  sleeps  in  the  day  has  got  to  wake  at  night  and  there  would  be  my  trouble  with  this  case.  Still  right  now  I  wanted  to  put  off  the  night  thoughts  to  notice  how  nice  it  was  to  be  a  nurse  in  such  a  wonder-  ful  place.  I  wouldn't  dare  touch  his  books.  Mama  says  when  you  work  for  people  keep  your  hands  off  their  things.  But  I  hoped  he  would  let  me  rub  him  and  give  him  a  little  petting.  I  had  been  a  company  keeper  to  a  whiskey-drinking  man  once  and  liked  that  fine.  He  didn't  fool  with  pills  to  speak  of,  but  every  case  is  different,  like  they  say.  Pretty  soon  a  nurse  unlocked  our  door  and  brought  me  in  my  dinner  on  a  tray.  Son  didn't  cat,  she  whispered,  they  had  some  special  juice  for  him,  and  she  put  it  on  his  table  with  some  pills  in  a  little  ruffied  cup.  Most  of  this  kind  shot  themselves  if  the  drugs  didn't  do  it,  she  said,  so  there  wasn't  any  hope.  After  she'd  gone,  I  figured  on  the  hope.  She  must  of  hoped  he  would  get  tired  of  his  pills  but  didn't  believe  he  would.  HE  sun  was  going  down  across  the  hospital  garden  when  Son  stopped  his  particular  kind  of  breathing  and  rolled  over.  There  were  bars  along  the  side  of  the  bed  or  he'd  of  fallen  off  and  I  would  be  to  blame.  He  smiled  at  me  and  I  have  to  stop  and  tell.  His  eyes  were  the  bluest  I  have  ever  seen.  It  was  like  he  was  trying  not  to  laugh.  They'd  told  him  I  was  coming,  he  said,  and  we  colored  had  every  right  to  act  the  way  we  did,  this  was  about  the  ter-  riblest  place  on  earth.  I  wasn't  going  to  argue,  no  matter  what  he  said.  He  would  tell  me  about  himself  some  other  time,  Son  said,  right  now  he  had  to  get  up.  He  snapped  the  bars  to  let  them  down  and  I  was  afraid  he  was  going  to  scat,  but  all  he  did  was  walk  into  the  bathroom  byholding  on  to  chairs.  And  I  needn't  to  have  even  worried,  he  shut  the  bathroom  door.  Thinking  about  him,  smiling  the  way  he  did,I  believed  I  understood  why  old  folks love  young  people  so  much.  They  think  they  are  the  same.  When  Son  came  out,  I  asked  him  if  he  would  like  to  have  me  tell  him  just  enough  about  myself  so  he  could  be  sure  I  was  respectful,  but  he  said  no,  he  had  to  drink  his  juice  and  unless  he  spoke  to  me  I  wasn't  to  speak  to  him.  He  didn't  pick  the  pills  out  of  the  cup,  he  just  opened  his  mouth  and  threw  them  in  all  at  once.  He  needed  to  chew  them  up,  he  said,  to  make  them  start  in  faster.  'Then  he  took  the  drink  and  did  it  the  same  way,  all  in  one  big  gulp.  Don't  get  him  started  talking,  he  said,  or  they'd  have  to  send  a  shot.  If  I  was  as  good  a  rubber  as  they  said,  go  ahead  and  start,  He  pulled  up  his  nightshirt  and  he  had  on  drawers,  so  there  was  just  a  nice-sized  slit  for  me  to  start  on.  I  wasn't  too  particular  about  rubbing  menfolks,  but  he  was  just  a  boy,  and  so  I  sat  down  on  the  bed  and  triedto  find  which  way  he  liked  it-bearing  down,  light  scratching,  or  what  Mama  calls  plain  pinches.  He  liked  all  three  by  turns,  he  said,  and  for  me  to  please  be  quiet.  I  began  to  get  over  my  worries  about  being  so  closeto  a  gentleman  I  had  just  now  got  acquainted  with.  It  stood  to  reason  that  the  doctors  had  told  him  not  to  wonder  about  any  whys  and  wherefores  the  same  as  they  had  me.  I  did  do  a  little  studying,  though,  on  one  particular  thing.  Son  had  been  to  sleep  since  I'd  gotten  in  here  with  himand  now  it  was  on  toward  evening.  What  would  we  do  the  next  time  he  waked  up-he  couldn't  keep  taking  pills  and  drinking  juice  straight  on.  I  go  off  to  sleep  myself  when  I'm  tired,  but  I  almost  can't  get  tired  now  I  can't  do  anything  like  hoeing-any-  thing  you'd  call  real  work.  I  knew  one  thing  for  sure.  I  wasn't  going  in  there  to  that  other  bed.  I'd  rest  against  his  wall.  That  way  every  time  he  stirred  I'dbe  right  up  again.  He  liked  light  scratching  best-I'd  finished  the  lean-on  kind,  but  just  about  when  I  thought  he  was  dozing  off  he  jumped  up  and  did  away  with  all  the  good  I'd  done  him.  He  had  a  lot  of  fears,  he  said,  I  couldn't  understand.  His  mind  hurt,  that  was  it.  The  doctors  said  it  was  his  nerves,  but  it  was  his  mind.  Sometimes  it  ached  so  bad  he  went  to  breaking  chairs  and  things  when  he  wasn't  even  angry,  just  to  get  a  shot.  He  asked  me  if  my  mind  ever  hurt,  and  I  didn't  believe  it  did.  I  said  my  heart  hurt  sometimes,  like  when  a  lady  killed  a  dog  or  something  hard  like  that.  He  showed  me  about  the  oxygen  then  and  how  to  turn  it  on  and  ring  the  bell  if  he  slacked  off  in  his  breathing  or  if  his  eyes  ever  came  open  while  he  was  still  asleep.  He  was  really  afraid  of  that,  he  said,  because  he  would  be  see-  ing.  He  learned  me  all  about  his  case  and  I  tried  to  understand  exactly  what  he  wanted.  I  thought  he  was  going  to  take  some  more  rubbing,  but  he  rang  the  bell  himself  and  when  the  nurses  came  he  saidto  bring  him  a  shot  quick,  that  I  was  worse  than  useless.  Hesmoked  " b"a  cigarette  while  they  were  gone  and  said  he'd  just  said  that  about  me  being  useless  forthe  sake  of  pleasing  them.  They  hated  him,  he  said,  for  getting  them  in  trouble.  Well,  the  shot  came  about  then  and  he  told  the  nurse  if  she'd  put  poi-  son  in  it  not  to  besur-  prised  if  she  wound  up  in  Parchman.  She  didn't  show  any  fright,  though.  She  told  him  it  was  a  double  dose  the  doctor  ordered  and  not  to  worry  a  bit,  it  was  sure  to  make  him  sleep.  This  started  him  to  laughing  and  I  had  a  time  quieting  him  down  for  my  next  rubbing,  but  goodness  alive,  he  didn't  last  a  minute.  I  slipped  the  bedrail  up  and  he  flopped  over  on  his  back  and  start-  ed  that  funny  breath-  ing,  so  I  knew  he  was  all  right.  The  nurse  had  snapped  a  lamp  on,  and  I  looked  at  Son  up  close  now  he  was  sleeping.  He  had  sets  of  gashes  across  his  face  and  neck  like  he  had  whacked  himself  with  something.  Did  he  break  chairs  and  whack  himself  just  to  get  to  sleep?  If  he  would  of  waited  and  done  two  or  three  days  of  carpenter  work  or  even  cutting  grass,  he  could  have  got  his  sleep  and  not  be  in  such  a  fix.  I  looked.  out  his  windows  awhile  and  saw  the  bent-up  people  coming,  so  it  must  be  vesper  time.  I  sat  my-  self  down  against  the  wall  where  I  could  hear  the  best  and  went  right  on  to  sleep.  HEN  I  woke  up  Son  was  still  sleeping  but  there  was  another  nurse  with  a  fine  big  breakfast  ready  for  me,  and  more  pills  and  juice  for  Son.  She  made  so  much  of  noise  she  woke  him  up  and  after  she  left  I  begged  him  to  try  a  little  of  my  grits.  Before  I  could  back  it  off,  he  reached  out  and  knocked  my  tray  on  the  floor.  I'm  sor-  ry  to  say  it  broke  some  of  the  hospital's  dishes,  but  I  wrapped  the  parts  in  tissue  so  they  wouldn't  stain  the  wastebasket  and  got  it  all  back  straight.  Son  was  trying  to  get  up,  like  he  had  yesterday,  only  he  must  of  been  too  weak,  he  couldn't  do  it.  He  started  up  some  groaning  and  I  rang  the  bell  until  a  nurse  could  get  back  in  to  help  him.  He  would  have  to  have  the  doctor,  she  said,  and  for  me  to  step  out  in  the  hall  and  wait.  The  doctor  came  flying  as  fast  as  he  could-Son  had  started  some  awful  hollering  and  I  was  afraid  he  was  final-  ly  killed.  But  when  they  came  out  of  his  room  everyone  was  smiling  and  they  told  me  to  go  hack  in,  he  was  as  good  as  new.  Everything  was  clean  and  fresh  and  Son  was  lying  there  smiling,  the  same  as  yesterday.  Except  he  didn't  remem-  ber  me,and  I  had  to  tell  him  who  I  was  and  what  a  fine  day  we  had  the  day  before.  As  soon  as  I  said  this,  he  " b"remembered  about  my  rubbing  and  said  he'd  try  some  more.  He'd  have  to  be  more  patient  about  calling  for  those  shots.  He  talked  quite  a  bit  different  now,  it  was  hard  to  understand  him,  but  after  while  I  caught  on-it  was  his  people's  meanness  he  was  needing  to  tell  about.  He  had  cousins,  he  said,  that  kept  big  boats  and  apartments  in  the  French  Quarter,  and  they  could  come  and  get  him  anytime  they  wanted,  but  because  he  was  a  genius  he  had  to  be  locked  up.  About  that  time  a  man  came  in  to  shave  him,  and  then  some  mail,  but  he  said  go  on  and  throw  it  in  the  trash,  it  was  people  after  money.  I  nev-  er  could  get  him  to  listen  to  his  letters.  Well,  I  got  on  to  Son  so  fast  I  learned  to  keep  down  trouble.  The  nurses  didn't  understand  he  couldn't  stand  their  noises.  He  had  to  have  ev-  erything  quiet  unless  he  went  to  talk-  ing.  If  he  got  tired  of  me  rubbing  his  back,  I'd  take  his  feet  in  my  lap  and  rub  on  them,  and  if  he  got  tired  of     feet,  1'd  start  in  on  his  neck.  When  he  said  anything,  I  eased  him  on  into  the  subject,  and  he  liked  to  try  to  teach  me  on  his  mind.  I  told  the  nurses  to  slip  a  pieceof  paper  under  our  door  so  we'd  know  our  pills  and  trays  were  there  and  I  could  go  to  the  door  and  get  them,  and  then  our  linens  too,  that  way  keeping  them  from  aggravat-  ing  him.  This  worked  to  slacken  off  the  shots,  and  it  was  good  because  he  could  get  up  and  down  when  he  wanted  to  and  didn't  have  to  call  the  doctor  in  and  suffer  all  that  pain.  I  am  coming  to  a  part  now  that  I  don't  much  like  to  speak  of.  Byme  being  so  completely  with  one  gentle-  man  all  the  time,  and  such  a  beautiful  one  as  Son,  I  got  to  having  happenings.  It  looked  like  my  age  hadn't  settled  on  me  as  good  as  I  believed.  It  was  that  same  thing  I  spoke  of  while  ago-I  would  look  at  him  and  think  we  were  the  same.  Every  time  Son  moved  or  talked,  I  would  start  getting  elevated, the  way  I  do  in  church.  I  knew  it  wasn't  fitting,  me  being  old  and  col-  ored,  but  I  had  a  case  of  love.  I  don't  mean  a  nurse's  or  a  Christian's,  I  mean  a  sinner's  kind.  It  was  making  me  happier  than  I'd  ever  been  before,  but  still  I  knew  I  had  to  stop.  Nobody  here  on  earth  can  help  a  sinner  out,  and  I  had  to  go  to  Him  at  times  when  Son  was  sleeping.  Our  Lord  came  down  not  for  the  big  and  righteous.  He  came  to  help  the  sinner.  I  asked  Him  to  stop  me,  but  the  trouble  is  once  you  really  get  to  sinning  it's  hard  to  want  to  stop.  I  prayed,  though,  just  the  same-it  doesn't  matter  to  God  what  sin  His  sinner  wants.  The  way  it  ended,  there  was  this  telephone  hole  in  Son's  wall,  and  when  he  got  a  call,  if  he  could  talk  they  would  bring  the  telephone  and  plug  it  in.  One  morning  when  I  was  rubbing  along  as  usual  and  he  was  telling  me  bad  things  his  people  did  to  him,  the  big  head  doctor,  the  one  that  put  me  in  here,  came  with  the  telephone.  It  was  his  father  on  the  line,  the  doctor  said,  and  he  had  some  special  news.  His  father  had  been  made  first  citizen  of  [REDACTED]  and  would  be  out  near  on  a  year  just  making  speeches.  He  couldn't  have  Son  here,  people  would  be  priz-  ing,  so  he  had  paid  one  of  his  cousins  to  take  him  to  a  place  in  the  French  Quarter  where  they  could  order  any-  thing  they  wanted  for  the  year.  The  doctor  gave  the  phone  to  Son  then,  and  Son  started  talking  with  his  father,  talking  mighty  ugly,  I'm  afraid.  If  it  took  this,  he  said,  to  get  him  out  of  this  hell  hole  where  they'd  put  him  with  a  Negro,  he  was  ready.  But  his  father  better  make  it  quick  or  he'd  call  the  news  and  it  would  be  too  late.  Well,  the  thing  was  like  a  thunder-  clap,  but  before  they  brought  the  phone  they  must  of  gotten  ready.  The  first  I  knew  they  had  a  rolling  chair  and  what  looked  like  State  Police,  and  his  papers  were  all  fixed  and  marked  &quot;Parole.&quot;  It  was  in  big  letters  right  across  his  pages.  Then  two  or  three  nurses  were  packing  up  valises.  His  cousin  was  the  last  to  come,  and  he  looked  a  lot  like  Son  except  he  had  dark  glasses  and  didn't  seem  so  friendly.  He  took  the  medicines  the  doctor  gave  him,  and  listened  at  the  rules.  Then  all  of  them  left  out,  and  I  guessed  they  had  forgotten  me  in  the  start  of  my  chastisement.  "