 b"MRS.  APRIL  opens  the  door  (a  side  door,  one  can  always  rec-  ognize  them)  in  the  same  moment  that  she  says,  &quot;I  am  Mrs.  April.&quot;  We  smile,  ask  each  other  how  we  are  doing,  how  we  are.  We  go  into  a  dark  passage,  out  of  the  glare  of  the  sun,  and  she  leads  me  through  what  seem  (I  look  eagerly  through  open  doorways)  to  be  kitchen  premises,  Mrs.  April  offering,  I  think,  a  rather  tepid  welcome.  At  least  she  doesn't  ask  me  if  I  had  a  good  journey,  which  is  just  as  well,  the  mere  word  is  enough  to  set  me  off  again.  It's  all  I  can  do,  concen-  trating  on  Mrs.  April's  small  back,  not  to  go  roaming  off  into  the  pantries  and  sculleries,  the  ironing  rooms  and  lamp  rooms  and  rooms  for  polishing  boots,  each  with  its  own  particularly  powerful  smell.  You  can  get  drunk  inhaling  steaming  linen,  paraffin,  and  boot  pol-  ish:  they  should  be  more  careful.  We  come  out  of  these  dingy  tribu-  taries  into  a  large  and  splendid  hall.  I  can't  take  it  all  in,  the  oak  and  mar-  ble,  the  brass  and  the  busts.  What  I  do  notice  is  the  silence,  as  Mrs.  April  brief-  ly  waits  for  me  to  be  impressed.  I  no-  tice  the  silence  (of  course;  at  least  I've  solved  that)  because  of  an  indoor  foun-  tain,  which,  presumably  turned  off,  drips  into  a  shallow  pool.  &quot;''That  is  the  dining  room,&quot;  Mrs.  April  says,  indicating  a  closed  door.  I  nod.  &quot;And  that  is  the  door  to  the  terrace.  We  keep  it  locked  from  the  inside.&quot;  I  nod  again.  It  would  be  more  curi-  ous  if  it  were  locked  from  the  outside.  Mrs.  April  starts  up  the  stairs  with  the  ease  of  a  guide  who  no  longer  no-  tices  the  stairs.  I  climb  behind  her,  face  raised  and  turning  from  one  object  to  another,  the  great  stained-glass  win-  dow,  the  portraits,  the  lamps,  many  of  which  are  switched  on  even  though  there  is  plenty  of  daylight.  We  come  to  a  spacious  landing,  a  plateau,  furnished  with  sofas.  The  walls  are  lined  with  books  in  dark  covers,  and  again  the  lamps  have  been  left  on,  though  their  light  is  barely  visible.  Passages  and  stairs  go  off  this  landing  in  all  direc-  tions,  but  Mrs.  April  goes  to  the  nearest  door,  unlocks  it,  opens  it,  saying,  &quot;And  this  is  your  room.&quot;  As  in  an  hotel,  the  room  is  dark  and-as  I  rather  apprehensively  ap-  proach  the  doorway-airless.  If  they  knew  I  was  coming,  they  could  at  least  have  had  it  ready.  I  hang  about  in  the  doorway  while  Mrs.  April  bat-  tles  with  something  in  the  darkness:  this  turns  out  to  be  a  blind,  for  at  last,  with  a  snap  and  a  whir,  it  ravels  it-  self  and  I  see  the  room,  large,  placid,  and  scattered  with  furniture.  I  wan-  der  in,  brutally  leaving  Mrs.  April  to  fight  with  the  other  two  blinds,  to  beat  with  clenched  fist  on  the  warped  windows,  to  open  them,  to  close  the  screens  once  more  (I  realize  I  am  already  bitten,  there  is  a  swelling  on  my  cheekbone  and  another  behind  one  knee),  to  turn  at  last  with  a  little  smile,  understandably  exhausted.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;there  you  are.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  &quot;I  expect  you'd  like  to  rest  before  dinner.&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  But  I  quickly  subdue  my  voice.  &quot;No-really  I'm  not  tired.  What  a  lovely  view.&quot;  I  am  looking  down  on  an  enormous  lawn;  in  the  distance,  straight  in  my  line  of  vision,  is  an  ornate  pond  with  a  statue;  a  wall  of  dark  trees  surrounds  the  lawn  on  three  sides;  immediately  below  me  is  a  broad,  flagged  terrace  with  steps  leading  down  to  the  lawn.  I  have  a  confused  idea  (or  memory)  that  this  would  be  an  excel-  lent  place  for  amateur  dramatics,  &quot;Dido  and  Aeneas&quot;  perhaps:  I  can  hear  the  patter  of  applause  in  the  twilight,  see  chair  legs  (the  chairs  brought  out  from  the  house)  sinking  into  the  soft  turf.  &quot;'Your  bathroom  is  just  across  the  passage,&quot;  Mrs.  April  says.  She  is  mov-  ing  toward  the  door.  &quot;There's  a  bell  for  dinner,  you'll  hear  it  quite  clearly.  Oh  ..  .&quot;  She  stops,  wondering  how  she  could  have  forgotten.  &quot;Do  you  have  a  watch?&quot;  &quot;No.  No,  I  don't.&quot;  &quot;That's  unusual.&quot;  &quot;Is  it?&quot;  &quot;Well  ...  most  watches.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  I  wish  I  could  start  a  discussion  about  watches,  but  somehow  they  don't  mean  anything  to  me.  &quot;Why  do  you  ask?&quot;  &quot;We  have  to  confiscate  them.  Tem-  porarily,  of  course.  Watches,  tele-  phones,  television,  newspapers-radios,  have  people     of  course  .  ..&quot;  Mrs.  April  seems  dazed  by  the  enormity  of  machinery  beyond  her  comprehension.  &quot;All  the  pressures,  you  understand,  of  time  and  so  forth  ...  I  mean,  that  is  the  whole  point  of  being  here.&quot;  I  am  willfully  stupid,  in  order  to  prolong  the  conversation,  in  order  not  to  be  left  alone.  &quot;What?  What  is  the  whole  point?&quot;  &quot;Well.  First,  to  be  relieved  of  the  pressures.  First,  to  be  totally  free.&quot;  &quot;Totally?&quot;  She  smiles  rather  prettily.  &quot;Well,  within  limits,  naturally.&quot;  &quot;What  are  the  limits?&quot;  'You're  expected  to  go  to  breakfast  and  dinner.  To...  help  the  staff  as  much  as  you  can.  Not  to  ...  upset  the  other  guests.&quot;  She  seems  a  little  uneasy,  as  though  I've  trapped  her  in  some  way.  You'll  .  ..  remember  in  time,&quot;  she  says  rapidly,  almost  beneath  her  breath.  &quot;Remember?&quot;  &quot;This  summer  we  have  the  pool,  you'll  like  that.&quot;  There's  no  doubt  that  Mrs.  April  is  in  difficulties,  though  surely  she  must  be  used  to  answering  questions  by  now.  &quot;You  must  under-  stand  ...&quot;  She  laughs,  this  must  be  something  she's  often  said  before.  &quot;I'm  really  only  what  you  might  call  a  'tran-  sit  officer.&quot;  I  don't  take  part  at  all  in  ...  running  the  place.&quot;  &quot;What  does  that  mean?&quot;  &quot;Well.  I  see  people  when  they  come-&quot;  &quot;And  when  they  go?&quot;  'Yes.  And  when  they  go.&quot;  &quot;Ihave  this  problem  at  the  moment.  It  tires  me  out.&quot;  &quot;I  expect  so.&quot;  She  is  guarded,  but  sympathetic.  &quot;I  keep  running  about  all  over  the  place.  I  can't  seem  to  keep  still.&quot;  Mrs.  April  sits  on  the  arm  of  a  chair,  one  hand  neatly  laid  across  the  other.  She  has  decided  to  stay  for  a  few  minutes.  I  am  very  relieved,  though  it  means  I  must  think  of  something  more  to  say.  &quot;For  instance,  just  now  I  can't  stop  travelling.&quot;  &quot;It's  natural  that  just  now  you  should  have  travelling  on  your  mind.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  I  don't  move,  do  I.  Just  think  of  the  journeys  I've  made,  the  journeys  you've  probably  made,  Mrs.  April  ...&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  don't  move  about  much.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  mean,  sitting  in  a  plane  or  a  train  or  acar  or  even  on  the  deck  of  a  boat,  for  instance,  or  lying  in  the  cabin  of  a  boat,  being  moved  forward,  sometimes  at  really  fantastic  speed-  but  staying  in  the  same  place,  do  you  see  what  I  mean?  Now  an  animal,  an  " b"animal  moves  by  itself,  moves  within  itself.  Wherever  it  goes,  it  ...  takes  itself  with  it.  Do  you  understand?  It's  obvious,  of  course.  Bits  of  me  keep  get-  ting  stripped  off  and  thrown  out  of  the  window,  into  the  rushing  wind.&quot;  &quot;''The  rushing  wind?&quot;  No  wonder  Mrs,  April  is  puzzled.  &quot;'That's  what  it  seems  like.  But  of  course  it  isn't.  It's  just  the  ...  dis-  turbance  of  the  air,  you  see,  made  by  the  speed  of  the  machine.  It  strips  these  pieces  off  you.  Tears  you  up,  you  know.&quot;  Mrs.  April  nods.  &quot;What  places,&quot;  she  asks,  &quot;do  you  have  in  mind?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  good  heavens  .  ..  [REDACTED],  Santa  Barbara,  4b656e7961,  Sochi,  Dub-  lin,  [REDACTED],  Haslemere.  I  don't  know  where  on  earth  I  am.  Piraeus  or  Eve-  sham,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  .  ..&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  see  what  you  mean.&quot;  &quot;Men  used  to  hurtle  round  the  moon,  you  know,  or  even  farther,  strapped  down  like  corpses.  Perhaps  they  didn't  even  blink  their  eyes.  When  they  gotout  and  walked  about-  danced  about,  and  somersaulted-they  were  attached  to  the  machine  all  the  time  by  a  sort  of  umbilical  cord.  Inside  the  machine,  of  course,  they  didn't  go  anywhere.  Ifind  that  terrible.  Quite  terrible.&quot;  &quot;You've  had  a  great  many  holi-  days,&quot;  Mrs.  April  says,  perhaps  a  little  wistfully.  &quot;So  many  places.&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  say,to  excuse  myself,  &quot;I  was  always  running  away.&quot;  &quot;Really?  From  what?&quot;  I  know  perfectly  well,of  course;  and  that  it's  not  so  much  a  question  of  from  what  as  from  whom  (though  perhaps  they're  the  same  thing,  what  and  whom).  I  was,  and  still  am,  run-  ning  away  from  the  person  to  whom  (in  a  sealed  envelope,  a  bulky  carton,  a  gift-wrapped  package?)  I  had  ad-  dressed  my  life.  The  name  on  the  ad-  dress  is  simply  &quot;you,&quot;  partly  because  I  still  can't  bear  to  name  you  specifically,  and  partly  because  I  am  beginning  to  suspect  that  you  are  not  an  individual  at  all  but  a  composite  of  many  individu-  als;  that  you  do  not  live  in  one  easily  identifiable  place  but  in  very  many  places  at  the  same  time;  that  your  char-  acteristics,  unlike  your  thumbprint,  are  not  unique  to  you  but  are  those  of  an  ethic,  a  way  of  oblivion,  what  Mann  calls  &quot;an  unconscious  type,&quot;  which  I  must  either  escape  from  or  pledge  my-  self  to  destroy.  The  pronoun  &quot;you&quot;  can  be  singular  or  plural.  To  answer  Mrs.  April's  question  truthfully,  I  should  have  to  say  that  all  these  mad-  cap  excursions  or  escapades  (which  in-  evitably  landed  me,  with  ever-increas-  ing  speed  and  efficiency,  in  your  bed)  were  attempts  to  free  myself  from  you,  to  fly,  drive,  sail,  ski,  skate,  travel  across  the  boundaries  of  your  horizon  and  find  refuge  in  some  totally  differ-  ent  (and  imaginary  )  climate.  I  will  not,  however,  answer  Mrs.  " b"April  truthfully.  She  has  said  herself  that  she  is  only  a  transit  officer,  and  in  any  case  I  have  sworn  to  myself  not  to  speak  of  you  to  anyone.  I  shrug  my  shoulders,  therefore,  and  say,  &quot;I  don't  know  what  from.  It's  the  travelling  itself  that  concerns  me.  The  things  lost,  left  behind,  scattered  about  the  place.  The  fact  of  being  transported,  you  see,  rather  than  actually  moving.  I  can't  understand  it.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  have  to-&quot;  I'm  sure  she's  not  going  to  say  any-  thing  important.  &quot;But  it  could  just  as  well  be  something  else.  Kitchens,  for  instance.  I  had  to  be  very  careful  downstairs.  The  whole  idea  of  kitchens,  their  variety,  their  complexity,  can  wear  me  out.  Water.  Books.  Tablecloths.  Seaweed.  I  can't  stop  myself  specu-  lating.&quot;  I  rap  my  forehead,  to  indicate  the  place.  &quot;Up  here.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  have  to  worry.  He  hasn't  been  here,  he  won't  come  here.  Not,  that  is,  unless  you  invite  him.&quot;  &quot;Invite?  How  would  I  do  that?&quot;  Mrs.  April  gets  up.  She  is  a  busy  woman,  she  has  spent  too  much  time  with  me,  now  I  must  fend  for  myself.  &quot;We  shall  see.  In  the  meanwhile,  as  I  told  you,  all  arrivals  and  departures  go  through  my  hands,  and  I  can  assure  you  that  you're  perfectly  safe  as  far  as  that's  concerned.  Do  try  to  rest,  now,  until  dinner.&quot;  &quot;Trying  to  rest,&quot;  I  say  feebly,  with  a  feeblesmile,  &quot;is  a  contradiction  in  terms.&quot;  &quot;I  probably  shan't  see  you  for  a  while.  I  hope  you  enjoy  the  pool.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  Isay.  &quot;I'm  sure  I  shall.&quot;  &quot;Don't  forget  the  bell  for  dinner.&quot;  &quot;I  shan't.  I'm  very  hungry.&quot;  &quot;Good.  Well,  then.  Take  care  of  yourself.&quot;  The  door  closes.  I  am  alone.  God  knows  how  long  itis  until  dinner.  Am  I  frightened?  Yes.  No  one  can  pos-  sibly  indulge  in  this  experiment  without  fear.  God  knows  (I  am  becoming  slip-  shod)  where  it  will  lead  me.  I  decide  that  rather  than  become  a  victim  of  myself,  with  its  attendant  dangers  of  having  to  travelvast  distances  by  thought,  I  will,  in  as  detached  a  man-  ner  as  possible,  examine  my  living  quar-  ters.  HIS  is  my  room,  where  I  shall  live  for  an  unspecified  time,  which  you,  if  Mrs.  April  is  to  be  believed,  will  never  see:  there  are  no  less  than  four  dressing  tables,  though  only  three  have  mirrors,  'The  room  measures  twenty-seven  of  my  feet  by  twenty-  two;  as  I  measure  it  (to  be  exact),  I  topple  from  side  to  side  like  a  tight-  rope  walker  maintaining  balance,  I  might  be  carrying  a  parasol  or  a  long  pole.  There  are  three  doors,  the  one  leading  to  the  outside  paned  with stained  glass;  the  other  two  also  paned  with  glass,  lat-  ticed-one  leads  into  a  cup-  board  the  size  of  a  child's  bed-  room,  the  other  is  firmly  locked  and  even  by  pressing  my  face  against  the  glass  I  can  see  nothing  but  darkness.  How-  ever,  examining  this  more  close-  ly,  I'm  relieved  to  find  that  a  piece  of  black  cloth  has  been  fixed  behind  the  glass.  It  isn't  darkness.  The  cloth  has  even  sagged  at  the  top  and  through  the  gap  (by  standing  on  a  chair)  I  can  see  a  perfectly  ordinary  patch  of  sky.  Why  not  another  room,  though?  I  must  be  in  the  middle  ofthe  mansion,  not  the  end.  I  must  look  up  at  my  windows  from  the  terrace  and  try  to  find  out  why,  in  an  inside  room,  a  side  wall  faces  the  open  air.  In  the  window  bay  there  is  a  desk  clothed  in  thick  brown  paper,  two  hideous  bronze  lights  springing  from  one stem,  a  sprig  of  some  dead  flower  stuck  into  the  mouth  of  a  reproduction  Cretan  wine  jar.  Next  to  it  (and  I  have  al-  ready  turned  this  toward  the  window)  an  upholstered  rocking  chair.  My  nun's  bed,  white  and  narrow,  presses  against  the  wall.  Another  bed,  which  will  be  unused,  is  across  the  room;  they  have  attempted  to  heap  it  with  two  faded  velvet  cushions  and  a  cardboard  bolster,  but  it  will  positively  not  be  heaped,  it  is  too  obviously  Spartan.  A  white-  painted  table,  which  will  be  useful  for  books  and  for  the  fruit  I  hope  to  save  from  mealtimes.  Two  more  tables  from  some  auction  lot;  two  adjustable  arm-  chairs  with  wooden  frames,  which  I  know  I  will  never  adjust;  a  vast  waste-  paper  bin  and  a  curious  wicker  stand  for  aspidistras  or  ferns  or  pampas  grass,  the  wicker  is  black  with  age,  at  one  time  it  may  have  been  gilded.  Now  I  discover  another  door,  a  door  that  has  no  glass,  a  door  that  will  not  even  budge  enough  to  creak.  It  is  hidden  behind  a  tattered  silk  screen  on  which  I  can  dimly  see  some  sort  of  Chinese  motif.  God,  I  am  suspicious  of  this  door,  I  go  outside  into  the  pas-  sage-no  sign  of  it.  Where  does  it  lead,  then?  Why  do  they  try  to  hide  it?  Did  they  think  I  would  never  look  behind  the  screen?  Certainly  I  daren't  touch  it,  in  case  it  crumbles  away.  But  I  can  see  round  it.  Four  doors  in  my  room,  and  only  one  way  out.  It's  not  normal.  I  hope  I  never  find  out  why  they  are  there,  I  hope  they  are  never  opened.  The  ornate  light  brackets  will  fall  " b"from  the  wall  before  long;  they  look  as  though  they  have  been  doctored  by  a  succession  of  amateurs.  The  table  lights  are  made  from  samovars,  I  think.  They  have  chains  for  switches,  and  at  least  the  chains  look  new.  There  are  two  brown  engravings  on  the  walls;  one,  of  some  pastoral  scene,  hangs  crooked.  I  make  this  inventory,  yet  when  I  go  over  and  sit  in  the  rocking  chair  fora  few  moments,  I  can't  picture  it.  This  room  is  &quot;now;&quot;  if  only  it  were  &quot;then&quot;  I  would  know  it  better.  I  decide,  in  order  to  keep  moving,  to  go  and  look  at  my  bathroom.  This  is  very  dangerous,  and  gives  me  a  severe  attack  of  speculation.  My  bathroom  is  a  dining  room  (or  study,  possibly)  panelled  in  oak,  with  innumerable  cup-  boards  and  doors  and  a  marble  fire-  place.  'The  shower,  cramped  in  the  corner,  and  the  lavatory  are  inciden-  tal.  As  it  contains  no  bath,  it  can  hardly  be  called  a  bath-  room;  yet  &quot;washroom&quot;  would  be  inadequate  for  such  a  dig-  nified  place.  I  know  I  shall  never  be  able  to  clean  my-  self  in  it.  The  Romans,  the  Greeks,  the  Etruscans,  the  most  ancient  civilizations  (but  oh,  I  am  so  tired)  made  use  of  tiles  when  washing  down  their  bodies.  The  sluicing  of  water  on  tiles  is  immediately  cleansing.  This  room  comes  from  the  Dark  Ages  (but  haven't  I  travelled  far  enough,  why  don't  I  try  to  rest?!)  when  bodies  were  stifled  in  serge,  dreadful  skin  diseases  were  kept  hidden,  there  was  a  tax  on  windows,  the  air  was  unchanged  from  winter  to  winter  (do  the  trees  turn  here,  or  are  they  evergreen?  ).  It's  no  use  protesting,  I  am  off  and  away.  Bathrooms,  then,  were  made  by  the  en-  lightened  from  bedrooms,  liv-  ing  rooms,  or  cupboards.  My  grandmother's  is  carpeted  in  that  most  dreadful  of  synthet-  ics,  linoleum.  My  mother  makes  me  stand  in  very  hot  water  and  douses  me  with  cold,  which  she  has  heard  is  good  for  the  circulation.  My  mother  believes  my  circulation  is  poor,  that  I  am  anemic  and  prone  to  tuberculosis;  she  has  remedies  for  all  these  condi-  tions  and  gives  me  sugar  lumps  soaked  in  eucalyptus  to  cure  my  catarrh.  In  the  so-called  bathroom  here  there  isn't  even  linoleum,  just  bare  boards  on  which  to  blot  one's  feet.  I  try  to  leave  the  bathroom,  but  it's  no  good,  I'm  trapped.  Of  course  the  best  bathrooms  nowadays  are  once  again  reception  rooms,  furnished  with  antiques  and  greenhouse  plants;  never-  theless,  they  have  tiles,  even  though  they  are  Art  Nouveau  or  nineteenth-  century  Spanish  tiles,  and  their  excel-  lent  plumbing  is  carefully  disguised  be-  hind  William  Morris  wallpaper  and  swags  of  specially  treated  velvet.  In  Bath  itself  (and  other  watering  places,  I  suppose),  the  steam  rises  from  ancient  water,  the  smell  is  metallic,  the  bathers  are  observed  by  sightless  busts  with  in-  clined  heads,  each  curl  and  laurel  leaf  petrified  in  stone.  Mrs.  April  hopes  I  shall  enjoy  the  pool,  where  personally  I  hope  that  prisms  of  light  will  shake  and  shatter  deep  in  the  blue  water  and  I  shall  be  able  to  immerse  myself.  Here,  in  this  room,  I  shall  dodge  about  in  my   shower  like  a  child  in  a  garden  hose,  the  floorboards  will  get  sodden,  the  soggy  cracks  in  the  wall  open  wider  each  day.  I  really  don't  know  how  I'm  to  keep  clean.  And  you  always  said  how  clean  I  was,  as  though  you  thought  it  surprising,  as  though  dirt,  grime  be-  hind  the  ears,  between  the  toes,  inside  the  navel,  was  to  be  expected,  and  found,  in  me,  lacking.  As  usual,  I've  managed  to  return  to  you,  the  escape  is  over.  On  the  short  way  back  to  my  room  I  notice  the  bookshelves  on  the  landing  and  am  almost  off  again,  but  manage  to  shut  myself  up  in  the  nick  of  time.  I  am  so  hungry.  Aren't  they  going  to  look  after  me,  protect  me  at  all?  Total  freedom  within  limits,  Mrs.  April  said.  I  suppose  this  means  that  I  and  the  other  people  here  are  free,  within  the  confines  of  this  freedom,  to  do  any-" b"thing  we  choose.  Probably  many  of  us,  like  myself,  have  temporarily  lost  the  power  of  choice,  but  the  alternatives-  to  walk  or  sit,  to  lie  down  or  stand  up,  to  go  this  way  or  that  as  far  as  the  perimeter  of  the  place-are  there  all  the  same.  We  have,  I  suppose,  the  freedom  to  do  nothing  at  all,  if  such  a  thing  were  possible.  I  find  it  impossible.  While  waiting  for  the  dinner  bell,  the  sense  of  freedom  oppresses  me  so  much  thatI  begin  to  sweat  with  fear.  When  I  hear  voices  on  the  terrace,  I  jump  up  in  the  hope  of  being  captured,  or  at  least  trapped  in  someone's  notice.  A  few  people  are  sitting  on  the  low  wall  of  the  terrace.  None  of  them  look  up.  I  frantically  search  the  tops  of  their  heads,  balding  or  curly,  sleek  or  overgrown.  I  see  their  shoulders,  their  hands,  their  feet,  a  long  way  off.  Which  one  will  be  my  friend?  Which  of  these  anonymous,  quietly  chattering  people  will  share  some  of  my  appalling  freedom  with  me?  Which  one,  when  I  can  see  his  or  her  face,  will  I  rec-  ognize?  Perhaps  they  are  waiting  for  me;  or  perhaps  they  will  resent  my  in-  trusion.  I  can't  make  up  my  mind  whether  to  go  down  and  join  them  or  not.  Nobody  has  told  me  what  to  do.  The  indecision  is  so  painful  that,  in  order  to  resolve  it,  I  sit  down  again  in  the  rocking  chair.  If  any  of  them  happen  to  look  up,  they  won't  know  I'm  here.  I  have  stolen  a  march  on  them,  seeing  them  first.  The  bell  for  dinner.  I  lean  forward  and  peer  over  the  sill.  They  all  stand  up  and  begin  to  walk  indoors,  out  of  my  sight.  What  shall  I  do?  (A  notice  on  one  of  the  dressing  tables  says  that  all  valuables  must  be  deposited  in  the  safe,  the  management  cannot  be  held  respon-  sible.  My  only  treasured  possessions  are  inside  my  head,  or  whatever  part  of  my  body  takes  care  of  such  things.  I  am  not  going  to  lock  my  room.)  I  stand  up-the  chair  rocks  like  an  idiot's  head  for  a  few  moments  and  walk  across  the  threadbare  red  carpet  and  open  my  door,  the  only  one  of  my  four  doors  that  leads  anywhere,  II  WONDER  whether  we  are  al-  lotted  particular  places  for  meals.  Apparently  not,  as  there  is  a  dig-  nified  scramble  in  the  dining-room  doorway  and  a  gaunt  man  runs  down  the  stairs  past  me,two  and  three  stairs  at  a  time,  without  giving  me  one  look,  let  alone  a  second.  This  alarms  me  so  much  that  I  decide  to  pretend  for  as  long  as  I  can  that  I'm  alone.  I  know  this  is  an  old  trick  of  mine  (like  clench,  ing  my  toes  inside  my  shoes)  and  that  it  gives  me  an  appearance  of  devastat-ing  and  off-putting  superiority,  but  I  can't  help  it,  I  have  to  survive.  Idon't,therefore,  look  at  anyone  as  I  wait  in  the  queue  for  my  food.  I  look  at  the  mammoth  and  almost  indiscern-  ible  paintings,  the  ornamental  china,  the  furniture,  the  cutlery,  a  nonexistent  scratch  on  my  forearm.  I  step  forward,  unable  to  prevent  myself  from  notic-  ing  the  girl  in  front  of  me,  who  is  made  of  instant  porridge  (gruel  would  per-  haps  be  more  correct.  She  is  lump-  less,  without  grain  of  any  kind.  Her  skin,  like  the  skin  of  instant  porridge,  is  cellophane-thin,  with  little  but  water  beneath).  The  girl,  I  note  from  under  my  indifferently  lowered  eyelids,  seems  to  be  in  a  state  of  deep  depression.  She  is  concave,  dressed  in  a  brown  turtle-  neck  sweater  (in  spite  ofthe  weather)  and  jeans.  Her  abundant  hair  is  color-  less,  her  hands  hang  at  her  sides,  she  shuffles  forward  as  though  not  caring  " b"at  all  what  she  will  receive  in  the  end;  if  you  gave  her  a  lottery  ticket  or  a  glimpse  of  Lenin  it  would  be  all  the  same.  A  man's  voice  says,  &quot;Zotkind,&quot;  or  something  of  the  sort.  I  turn,  startled,  thinking  it  must  be  a  profanity,  or  a  criticism  of  my  apparent  disdain.  The  small,  burly  man  smiles  in  his  beard.  &quot;Gotzink,&quot;  he  says,  holdingout  his  hand,  &quot;Basil.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  do?&quot;  I  shake  his  hand.  (KHi\xe2\x80\x987)  &quot;Hi,&quot;  I  reply.  As  though  we  were  two  Indians  meeting  on  a  mountain  pass.  &quot;You  got  here  all  right,  then?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Yes,  I  did.&quot;  &quot;Quite  comfortable?  O.K.#&quot;  Yes.  Thank  you.&quot;  As  we  inch  forward,  Gizdonk  con-  tinues  to  chatter,  exuberant.  His  beard,  bristling  and  curling  and  spiked  with  gray,  must,  I  imagine,  complement  his  pubic  hair.  He  has  been  swimming,  he  tells  me,  and  indeed  his  head,  though  not  his  beard,  is  still  wet.  Dressed  in  shapeless  trousers  which  completely  dis-  guise  him  from  the  waist  down  (odd  how  one  has  come  to  appreciate  that  coxcomb  bulge,  as  alluring  to  women  as  a  sweatered  breast  is  said  to  be  to  a  man)  and  a  yellow  knitted  shirt,  he  dances  forward  as  though  in  training.  Indeed  I  know  already,  before  I  know  him  at  all,  that  he  enjoys  ballgames  and  all  forms  of  athletics.  His  small  eyes  glint  behind  gold-framed  specta-cles.  His  mouth,  two  perfect  lips  ob-  scured  by  that  harsh  hair,  coyly  re-  futes  all  the  brazen  masculinity.  He  gestures  with  small,  impeccable  hands,  the  fingernails  longer  than  my  own.  He  seems  to  be  on  tremendously  ami-  able  terms  with  everybody.  I  feel  I  am  being  invited  into  the  fold.  Nevertheless,  I  do  not  want  to  eat  my  dinner  with  Gidzink  or  the  por-  ridgy  girl,  the  one  obviously  demand-  ing  too  much  of  me,  the  other  totally  indifferent.  The  girl,  receiving  her  plate  of  food  (chicken,  of  course,  a  meat  which  hasn't  been  edible  since  I  was  a  child,  a  meat  for  those  who  in-  anely  believe  that  a  chicken  doesn't  have  as  much  red  blood,  relatively  speaking,  as  a  cow,  a  mass-produced  meat  with  as  much  flavor  and  nourish-  ment  as  wadding-all  this  I  will  tell  Zigdonk  later,  and  he  will  disagree  with  me  passionately),  the  girl  sits  on  the  nearest  pseudo-Jacobean  chair,  fill-  ing  up  the  center  table.  I  must  broach  an  empty  table  entirely,  daring  God-  zonk  to  follow  me.  I  sit  (I  hope)  as  though  about  to  preside  at  family  din-  ner.  Nozdik  inevitably  follows  me.  I  cannot  say  this  place  is  reserved.  He  sits.  I  busy  myselfwith  my  chicken,  for  I  am  hungry.  The  table  fills  up  with  other  people,  all  of  whom  seem  to  have  anxiety  or  euphoria  moving  behind  their  guarded  eyes.  At  first  the  conversation  is  general,  hardly  including  me.  A  red-haired  man  called  Paul,  who  titters,  has  spent  a  pleasant  afternoon  on  the  croquet  lawn  in  the  company,  it  seems,  of  some  rela-  tive.  I  am  sure  we  are  not  allowed  vis-  itors  (in  spite  of  Mrs.  April's  hint  that  I  might  invite  someone)  and  don't  un-  derstand  it.  A  tiny,  rather  hectic  young  woman  (Rowena?)  teases  Dizgonk  about  his  swimming;  I  feel  she  is  teas-  ing  him  about  something  else.  A  seri-  ous,  very  neat  man,  Revlon,  says  he  has  heard  that  they  are  misusing  the  Repair  Fund,  they  are  going  to  build  tennis  courts  instead  of  seeing  to  the  sewer.  Gizdink  is  very  interested  in  this  news.  He  notes  that  itis  getting  dark  early  this  evening,  and  leans  across  me  to  switch  on  the  table  lamp,  which  makes  a  pool  of  lightat  which  our  faces  can  lap  gratefully.  He  then  questions  Revlon,  agreeing  that  the  misuse  of  the  Repair  Fund  is  a  scandal  and  suggesting  ways  in  which,  as  guests  of  the  place,  we  can  protest.  As  he  talks,  quietly  and  forcefully,  I  think  I  begin  to  recognize  him.  I  hear  his  voice  asking  me  a  ques-  tion.  &quot;Not  working?&quot;  he  asks,  pre-  tending  to  chide  me  as  I  wander  (while  eating  my  chicken?)  through  a  fairy,  land  of  electric  lights,  a  forest  of  floor  lamps  so  bizarre  that  I  can  only  won-  der,  of  standard  and  desk  lamps,  of  lamps  angle-poised  for  reading  or  petit  point,  of  strip  lights  and  lanterns.  And  above,  as  that  &quot;Not  working?&quot;  whis-  pers  down  the  brilliant  corridors,  a  lu-  natic  roof  of  chandeliers  and  dazzling  balloons,  of  orange  hexagons  and  bowls  of  light.  &quot;No,&quot;  Isay.  &quot;I'm  trying  to  buy  a  lamp,  but  how  expensive  they  " b"are.&quot;  He  realizes,  then,  that  I  am  try-  ing  to  economize.  Perhaps  he  thought  I  was  rich.  I  am  so  bold  in  that  bril-  liant  setting.  &quot;Ring  me,&quot;  I  say,  giving  him  my  number  (in  those  days,  I  think,  telephone  exchanges  had  beauti-  ful  names:  Primrose  if  not  Eglantine,  Juniper  and  Mulberry,  Hope  and  Grief  perhaps,  Modesty  and  Love).  In  the  afternoon,  when  I  am  lying  on  my  bed  in  a  darkened  room,  he  will  tele-  phone,  and  I  will  ask  him  over  for  a  drink.  In  the  meanwhile,  his  serious  con-  versation  over,  he  tells  me  that  he  is  learning  to  swim.  It  is  a  marvellous  achievement.  He  is  horizontal,  thrash-  ing  the  water  with  powerful  arms,  no  longer  fearing  to  drown.  He  has  grown  heavier,  more  rabbinical,  I  wonder  whether  he  has  retained  his  zest  for  love  and  why  he  doesn't  make  the  slightest  sign  of  recognition.  I  can't  have  changed  that  much.  I  will  caress  him  with  luxurious  creams,  economiz-  ing  on  other  things,  but  he  talks  about  swimming.  Odd  that  his  eyes  aren't  still  for  a  moment.  I  prefer  them  ponder-  ouswith  lust.  Keep  your  eyes  still,  Zidgonk  or  whoever  you  are,  float  and  be  still.  Now  sleeps  the  crimson  petal,  sings  my  father,  mellow-voiced,  now  the  white,  now  sleeps  the  goldfish  in  the  porphyry  font,  so  fold  thyself,  my  dearest  one,  and  slip  slip  into  my  bosom  and  be  lost  in  me.  &quot;Come  and  watch  me,&quot;  he  says,  cramming  himself  with  chicken.  &quot;I  like  to  be  watched,  it  gives  me  confidence.&quot;  There  is  no  way  of  finding  out  who  set  that  poem  to  music.  Dinzok  cer-  tainly  won't  know.  Trivial  little  bits  of  information  like  that,  and  they  won't  tell  you.  I  begin  to  be  irritated,  a  sure  signthat  I'm  out  of  my  depth.  &quot;This  time  thing,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;seems  affected  to  me.  I  mean,  it's  ridiculous  to  try  and  make  us  do  without  time.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  there's  an  alternative?&quot;  &quot;Maybe  with  acid  or  prayer  or  medi-  tation.  Maybe  if  we  were  all  stoned  out  of  our  minds.  You  can't  do  much  with  chicken  and  ice  water.&quot;  This  is  where  we  have  our  argument  about  chicken,.  Neither  ofus  is  per-  suaded.  Gozdik  has  a  white  band  on  his  wrist,  where  he  must  have  quite  re-  cently  worn  a  watch.  It  is,  I  know,  a  mediocre  watch  with  a  black  dial,  not  only  telling  him  the  time  but  the  date  as  well.  Not,  however,  the  year.  It  could  be  2875  (A.D.)  and  my  mother  coming  up  to  her  thousandth  birthday.  Even  outside,  Gidzonk's  watch  couldn't  tell  him  that  but  would  plod  on  ac-  cumulating  minutes,  hours,  and  num-  bered  days  as  though  the  present-that  precise  moment  after  the  third  stroke-  were  all  that  mattered.  &quot;Why  do  they  have  all  those  books about?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;If  we're  sup-  posed  to  be  forgetting  time.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  some  books  are  timeless,&quot;  he  says  unctuously.  &quot;Huh,&quot;  I  say,  full  of  trepi-  dation  and  contempt.  &quot;  'She  is  older  than  the  rocks  among  which  she  sits;  like  the  vampire,  she  has  been  dead  many  times,  and  learned  the  secrets  of  the  grave;  and  has  been  adiver  in  deep  seas,  and  keeps  their  fallen  day  about  her'?&quot;  &quot;Well?&quot;  Tennyson  and  Pater  are  improbable  com-  panions  at  this  (in  spite  of  the  lamp)  daylight  dinner.  &quot;Do  you  think  Charlee  Kingsley  liked  swimming?&quot;  &quot;Maybe.  I  think  he  equated  it  with  moral  hygiene.&quot;  I  laugh.  I  am  beginning  to  like  Gonzink,  in  spite  of  his  passion  for  chicken.  He  is  now  eating  pink  ice  cream,  shovel-  ling  it  into  his  beard  like  a  ten-  year-old.  &quot;I  suppose  you  think  it's  romantic,  Byronic,  to  be  a  strong  swimmer.&quot;  &quot;In  point  of  fact,&quot;  he  says,  delicately  wiping  ice  cream  off  his  whiskers,  &quot;I'm  more  like  Shelley.&quot;  &quot;Who  drowned.&quot;  &quot;Exactly.&quot;  What  we're  doing  with  all  these  nineteenth-century  poets  I  have  no  idea.  Zinkgot  turns  to  talk  to  Rowena.  Someone  at  the  next  table  (where  the  depressed  girl  stares  at  the  plate  she  has  made  so  clean  that  itis  ready  for  the  dishwasher)  says  loudly,  &quot;Oh,  he  brought  his  briefcase  of  course,&quot;  and  everybody  except  the  girl  laughs.  And  yet  I  know  that  if  I  ask  who  brought  the  briefcase  and  when  and  where,  they  will  look  at  me  as  though  I  were  simple.  I  am  excluded,  my  only  ad-  venture  a  meeting  in  the  electrical  de-  partment  with  Donzik,  who  doesn't  appear  to  remember.  I  look  forward  to  going  back  to  my  room,  where  I  can  sulk  in  private.  That,  however,  is  not  his  plan.  We  will  walkround  the  lake,  he  says.  I  don't  want  to  do  this,  to  be  devoured  by  insects  so  that  I  shall  scratch  all  night  like  a  cat,  long,  vicious  strokes  making  white  tracks  on  my  skin.  More  than  this,  I  think  I  know  where  any  kind  of  deepening  intimacy  will  lead:  it  will  end  in  tears,  in  recrimination  and  disgust.  I  will  betrying  to  make  telephone  calls  from  a  wayside  call  box  without  the  appropriate  money.  I  will  take  to  humiliation  like  a  duck  to  water.  Ginkzok,  after  a  restoring  holi-  " b"day,  will  marry  and  have  two  children.  He  will  marry  a  girl  with  prominent  hipbones,  a  deeply  indented  waist  be-  tween  hip  and  rib  as  she  lies  on  her  side,  cheek  on  hand,  watching  him  dress  for  work.  I  can  avoid  all  that  by  taking  a  shortcut  to  my  present  in-  difference,  though  already  I  am  dis-  mayed  to  find  the  indifference  tinged  with  affection.  No,  I  don't  want  to  walk  round  the  lake.  I  don't  want  to  go  through  that  again.  And  yet  it  seems,  with  all  this  freedom,  that  I  have  no  free  will,  for  I  hear  myself  saying,  &quot;Yes,  I  would  like  to  walk  round  the  lake.  How  big  is  it?&quot;  and  he  replies  that  it  is  not  big  at  all,  more  of  a  pond  really.  He  tells  me  that  we  must  stack  our  plates  and  take  them  to  the  kitchen,  there  are  very  few  servants  (and  those  there  are,  from  my  glimpse  of  them,  look  and  behave  more  like  matrons,  nurses,  nannies,  people  in  authority).  Then  we  leave,  followed  by  many  curious  glances.  Nizdok  and  I  are  leaving  together:  that  is  the  news.  He  bounces  along.  I  hurry  to  keep  up  with  him.  We  go  down  a  driveway,  he  points  out  the  pool  through  a  clump  of  pine  trees.  &quot;And  the  office,&quot;  he  says,  throwing  an  arm  in  the  opposite  direction,  &quot;is  over  there.  Would  you  like  to  see  it?&quot;  &quot;Why?  Is  there  anything  special  about  it?&quot;  &quot;No.  I  just  wondered  if  you'd  like  to  see  it.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  it  has  notice  boards  and  filing  cabinets  and  'in'  trays  and  'out  trays  just  like  other  offices,  doesn't  it?&quot;  &quot;I  expect  so.  You  know,  in  the  winter,  if  you  stand  still,  your  feet  freeze  to  the  ground.&quot;  &quot;You've  been  here  in  the  winter,  then?&quot;  He  hesitates,  looks  at  me  oddly,  then  asks  me  if  I  swim.  He  is  obviously  obsessed  with  swimming.  &quot;A  little.&quot;  &quot;How  much?  Two  lengths?  Four  lengths?  Twenty?&quot;  &quot;I've  never  counted.&quot;  He  shakes  a  finger  at  me.  &quot;I  bet  you  do  twenty.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  six.&quot;  &quot;Six,  huh?  Interesting.&quot;  Now  I  am  almost  running  to  keep  up  with  him.  &quot;When  do  they  empty  the  pool?&quot;  &quot;'The  meadows,&quot;  he  says,  with  a  nonchalant  wave  of  his  hand  toward  an  open  space  beyond  the  trees.  We  can  make  love  in  the  meadow,  not  in  a  corner  or  on  the  edge  of  it  but  bang  in  the  middle,  without  shelter.  We  won't  realize  until  afterward  that  a  man  has  been  watching  us  from  be-  hind  the  trees;  when  we  do,  we  will  be  offended  that  there  is  no  applause,  the  slow  clapping  of  a  pair  of  hands  in  the  stillness  would  be  impressive.  I  can't  make  out  whether  Zondik  knows  this,  has  forgotten  it,  or  merely  takes  it  for  granted.  The  track  winds  through  pine  trees,  the  soft  ground  treacherous  with  needles.  There  are  a  few  huts  in  the  woods,  possibly  (I  shudder)  for  solitary  confinement,  the  food  passed  through  a  small  trapdoor,  cat  door  (which  lets  in  a  cold  wind,  whistling  along  the  hall-  way.  When  the  cats,  Troilus  and  Pushkin,  have  been  sent  away  to  grow  lean  and  ferocious  in  the  country,  the  cat  door  is  sealed  up  with  insulating  tape;  but  still  it  lets  in  the  wind).  But  I  will  only  ask  one  more  question.  &quot;You  told  me  your  name,  but  I  didn't  hear.  What  is  your  name?&quot;  &quot;Basil.&quot;  He  is  named  for  a  herb,  I  know  that.  &quot;But  your  second  name?&quot;  &quot;Gondzik.  G-o-n-d-z-i-k.&quot;  &quot;Really?  Gondzik?&quot;  It  is  a  relief,  really.  I  thought  he  was  going  to  say  Greenstreet,  and  tell  me  that  it  had  originally  been  Grunheim  but  his  fa-  ther  had  it  changed  on  account  of  the  war.  The  air  is  lighter  after  a  humid  day.  It  even  becomes  slightly  chilled  as  we  reach  the  lake.  &quot;Cold?&quot;  he  asks,  though  I  don't  know  why,  there  is  nothing  he  could  do  about  it.  &quot;No,  it's  not  cold.&quot;  He  stands  looking  along  the  shore  of  the  lake,  perhaps  wondering  which  way  to  go.  Like  a  dog  he  stiffens,  be-  comes  intent.  I  see  nothing  yet  but  the  lake,  the  pines,  the  muddy  little  waves  lapping  on  mud.  He  shivers  shortly,  slaps  his  arms  round  himself,  his  face  changes.  As  cautiously  as  a  mother  ap-  proaching  a  child  on  a  rooftop  I  take  one  step  toward  him  on  the  soft  turf;  wait;  ask  almost  inaudibly,  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  He  turns  and  smiles,  teeth  as  pret-  ty  as  the  mouth  in  all  that  hair.  He  puts  his  arm  round  my  shoulders  and  begins  to  walk  toward  his  vision,  or  whatever  it  was.  My  mother,  in  devoted  evenings,  made  a  suit  for  Hiawatha,  from  the  red  deer's  hide  Nokomis  made  a  cloak  for  Hiawatha.  Now,  caught  complete-  ly  off  my  guard,  itis  I  who  am  di-  verted  and  enchanted,  Sunlight  through  " b"the  pine  trees  dapples  her  dress  as  I  track  her  down  upon  one  knee  upris-  ing,  pull  the  bow  and  aim  the  arrow  winging  to  fall  just  short  of  her  lap  by  this  shore  of  Gitche  Gumee,  The  moon  is  a  paring  in  the  pale  sky,  dangling  above  the  pine  trees.  Once  a  warrior,  very  angry,  seized  his  grandmother  and  threw  her  up  into  the  sky  at  midnight,  what  shocking  behavior  for  a  warrior.  We  are  in  a  vast  stadium,  my  mother  and  I,  my  eyes  stretch  with  wonder,  down  the  aisles  and  through  the  sta-  dium,  down  the  river  o'er  the  prairies  came  the  warriors  of  the  nations,  came  the  Delawares  and  Mohawks,  came  the  Choctaws  and  Comanches,  came  the  Shoshones  and  Blackfeet,  came  the  Pawnees  and  the  Omahas,  came  the  Mandans  and  Dakotas,  came  the  Hu-  rons  and  Ofjibways.  I  block  my  ears  at  the  black-robe  chief  and  his  soppy  talk  and  wait  full  of  exultation,  pretending  for  the  moment  I'm  in  church  and  needn't  listen.  On  the  shore  stood  Hia-  watha,  turned  and  waved  his  hand  at  parting,  on  the  clear  and  luminous  wa-  ter,  attached  to  an  elaborate  system  of  pulleys,  launched  his  birch  canoe  for  sailing,  from  the  pebbles  of  the  margin  shoved  it  forth  into  the  water,  whis-  pered  to  it,  &quot;Westward!  Westward!&quot;  and  with  speed  it  darted  forward  away,  away  forever,  into  the  wings  of  the  enormous  stadium,  sailed  into  the  fiery  sunset,  sailed  into  the  purple  vapors,  sailed  into  the  dusk  of  evening.  &quot;Did  you  enjoy  it?&quot;  my  mother  asked,  un-  sure.  Dumbfounded,  streaming,  I  nod  my  head  again  and  again,  knowing  I  should  say  thank  you.  It  is  useless,  I  know,  to  ask  Gondzik  who  wrote  the  music,  or  what  &quot;Ona-  way&quot;  means  for  that  matter.  My  fa-  ther  sings,  anyhow:  Onaway!  Awake,  beloved!  It's  a  clarion  call,  followed  by  rushing  footsteps:  thou,  the  wild  flow-  er  of  the  forest,  thou,  the  wild  bird  of  the  prairie,  thou  (emphatic,  singling  me  out),  with  eyes  so  soft  and  fawn-  like!  Confidential:  if  thou  only  lookest  on  me,  I  am  happy,  I  am  happy,  as  the  lilies  of  the  prairie,  when  they  feel  ...  the  dew  upon  them.  Urgent,  so  ur-  gent:  does  not  all  the  blood  within  me  leap  to  meet  thee,  leap  to  meet  thee,  as  the  springs  to  meet  the  sunshine  in  the  Moon  when  nights  are  brightest-  Onaway!  There  is  a  sad  bit  now,  he  is  wretched,  but  soon  he  goes  rollicking  on,  smiles  the  earth  and  smile  the  wa-  ters,  smile  the  cloudless  skies  above  us...  Oh  awake,awake,  beloved!  Onaway!  Awake,  beloved!  How  he  sings  with  his  great  chest.  &quot;He  should  have  been  a  concert  singer.  They  all  said  so.&quot;  &quot;But  he  was  happy  in  the  Church?&quot;  &quot;In  the  Church?  Oh,  no.  He  wasn't  at  all  happy.  He  had  to  take  pills  to  calm  his  libido.&quot;  'That's  how  he  put  it?&quot;  'That's  what  he  told  me.&quot;  Realizing  that  I  have  used  a  past  tense,  I  suddenly  feel  very  lonely,  out-  cast  rather  than  foreign.  &quot;&quot;Who  is  the  sad  girl  in  front  of  me  in  the  queue?&quot;  &quot;Elizabeth.  She's  not  so  much  sad  as  simple.  I  stayed  with  her  one  night.&quot;  &quot;Here?&quot;  I  am  astounded,  jealous.  &quot;She  begged  me.&quot;  How,  I  wonder,  do  you  beg.  She  squats  on  the  floor  between  his  mam-  moth  legs,  she  holds  up  her  paws,  sim-  ple  head  on  one  side,  begging  for  the  bone  hidden  within  those  folds  of  Da-  cron.  When  he  gives  it  to  her,  she  whimpers  with  delight,  buries  it  in  a  secret  place.  But  you  are  a  modest  man,  Gondzik,  I  think;  modest  and  gentle;  cataclysmic,  apocalyptic  only  in  love;  you  don'tfavor  beggars  pawing  at  your  breeches.  &quot;I  don't  understand.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well.&quot;  He  shrugs  it  off,  no  longer  patient.  &quot;She  clung  to  me.  Like  a  little  girl.&quot;  This  is  certain  to  disgust  me.  He  has  hit  it  right  on  the  nose,  scored  a  bulls-eye.  What  has  happened  to  you,  Gondzik?  Where  has  your  bony  young  wife  gone,  the  children  you  carry  on  your  shoulders?  You  have  left  them  outside,  no  doubt,  but  even  so  ...  Also  I  notice  that  he  has  been  referring  to  some  nonexistent  past,  a  night  we  have  left  behind.  The  insects  attack  me.  They  nuz-  zle  up  under  my  long  dress,  seeking  out  the  fleshier  parts  of  my  body,  nip-  ping  and  stinging.  I  suggest  haughti-  ly  that  we  go  back,  and  he  agrees.  We  are  uncoordinated,  but  I  have  no  idea  whether  the  part  I  know  is  over  or  whether  itis  vet  to  come;  whether  perhaps  it  is  happening  now,  and  I  have  forgotten.  That  is  all  that  happens  on  our  walk.  Inside  the  house  a  huge  Brandenburg  is  playing,  nobody  is  there  to  listen.  Mu-  sic,  of  course,  is  timeless.  Gondzik  comes  with  me  up  the  stately  stairs,  the  indoor  fountain  drips  monotonously,  the  Pre-Raphaelites  squint  down  their  long  noses.  Outside  my  room  he  kisses  me  good  night.  His  lips  and  teeth  have  disappeared,  he  gnaws  at  me  with  open  jaws,  but  not  for  more  than  a  few  seconds.  I  know  they  are  seconds  be-  cause  I  am  counting  one  two  three  four  at  the  rate  of  a  slow  heartbeat.  I  am  in  my  room,  the  door  closed.  It  is  getting  dark.  Like  a  Christian  in  a  pagan  country  Ifold  my  hands  and  say  &quot;The  day  is  over;&quot;  but  not  aloud  in  case  the  rickety  light  fittings  are  bugged,  which  now  seems  not  unlikely.  H1  IN  a  dream  in  the  night  I  see  my-  self  walking  away  from  you  down  an  endless  grass  path,  the  borders  of  which  meet  only  in  infinity.  I  walk  backward  as  easily  as  though  I  had  eves  in  the  back  of  my  head;  I  will  be  facing  you  long  after  you  are  out  of  sight.  It  is  very  important  to  make  sure  that  I  am  in  myself  as  I  walk,  float,  drift  backward  along  the  path.  Between  the  petunias,  the  pergolas,  the  small  box  hedges.  It  is  vitally  important  that  no  part  of  me  remains  in  you,  static  on  your  stone  bench  spattered  with  bird  " b"lime;  thatI  do  not  look  out  through  your  eyes,  for  if  I  did  I  would  lose  sight  of  myself,  my  poor  self  would  be  abandoned,  hollow,  lighter  than  air,  to  step  backward  for  ...to  step  in-  terminably.  Waking,  I  review  the  situation.  Not  too  bad  but  not  very  satisfactory,  either.  I  don't  know  how  long  I  have  been  here,  possibly  weeks  by  now,  and  cer-  tain  things  trouble  me.  My  relationship  with  Gondzik  remains,  on  the  surface,  exactly  as  it  was  left  after  our  walk  round  the  lake.  He  is  proprietary  to-  ward  me,  and  always  kisses  me  good  night;  sometimes,  thinking  of  some-  thing  else  when  we  are  lying  by  the  pool,  he  strokes  my  bottom  as  though  it  were  a  cat.  He  doesn't  wish  to  get  further  involved  with  me,  thinking,  for  some  reason,  that  I  have  suffered  too  much  and  would  interfere  with  his  mirth.  Gondzik's  mirth  expresses  itself  in  loud  shouts  of  laughter,  and  he  is  probably  right.  On  the  other  hand,  the  loud  shouts  of  laughter  are  frequently  occasioned  by  idle  remarks  of  mine  which  are  not  all  that  funny.  What  he  tells  me  of  his  sex  life  seems  ex-  traordinarily  dour  in  that  it  is  por-  nographic,  and  nobody  with  a  sense  of  the  ridiculous  can  appreciate  pornog-  raphy.  As  Gondzik  has,  forthe  time  being  at  any  rate,  taken  me  over,  I  have  little  chance  to  get  to  know  anyone  else.  I  could  protest,  but  the  security  of  having  a  relationship  (however  tenuous)  so  early  on  in  my  stay  is  too  comforting.  I  have  the  impression  that  Gondzik's  status  is  a  little  different  from  the  oth-  ers'-something  to  do  with  his  famil-  arity  with  the  staff,  perhaps,  or  the  fact  thatI  know  that  he  often  goes  out  after  I  have  gone  to  bed.  He  is  very  concerned  with  the  felonies  of  the  ad-  ministration,  and  probably  meets  with  Revlon  to  decide  what  should  be  done.  On  the  other  hand,  he  may  be  feeding  Elizabeth.  From  her  increasingly  hag-  gard  and  dejected  look,I  would  doubt  it.  I  wake  early-it  is  barely  light-  and  lie  first  on  this  side,  then  that,  over  onto  my  stomach,  trying  to  investigate  my  uneasiness.  Some  people,  I  am  al-  most  sure,  have  rendezvous  with  out-  siders;  or  they  come  upon  the  outsiders  by  chance,  in  the  gardens  or  woods;  or  the  outsiders  are  put  in  their  path  by  some  muddling  authority.  If  this  is  so,  it's  an  infringement  of  freedom.  Yes-  terday  I  asked  Paul,  the  red-haired  man  with  the  titter,  whom  he  had  spent  the  afternoon  with  on  the  croquet  lawn.  He  simply  looked  at  me,  puz-  zled,  and  walked  away.  And  yet  I  distinctly  heard  him  say  ...and  yet  I  don't  know,  perhaps  I  was  mistaken.  When  alone,  I  keep  strictly  to  the  pool  path.  By  keeping  to  this  path,  my  des-  tination  obvious  from  my  towel  and  sun  oil  and  general  paraphernalia,  I  intend  to  resist  any  such  encounter.  I  intend  to  do  what  I  was  told  (I  think?  )  and  wait,  if  necessary  for  life,  for  time  to  do  its  work.  Once  I  can  get  the  hang  of  it,  I  may  even  learn  to  control  my  dreams.  I  suppose  some  sort  of  immortality  isn't  entirely  out  of  thequestion.  In  spite  of  my  association  with  Gondzik,  I  don't  show  any  interest  in  the  stories  of  corruption,  the  lies  and  bribery  and  other  political  gossip.  I  don't  join  in  the  speculation.  I  do  ob-  ject,  though,  to  the  behavior  of  some  of  the  guests.  However  critical  they  are  of  the  administration,  they  are  not  above  rifling  through  each  other's  per-  " b"sonal  possessions  in  the  hope  of  gaining  evidence,  damning  or  otherwise.  If  rooms  are  left  unlocked,  like  mine,  they  sneak  in  to  examine  passports  for  dates  of  birth  (the  gaunt  man  who  appears  to  be  in  his  mid-fifties  is,  they  say,  only  thirty;  the  skittish  blonde  in  the  bikini  is  fifty-two);  they  flick  through  private  diaries;  they  read  the  labels  on  medi-  cine  bottles,  in  case  they  can  report  anything  illegal.  All  this  seems  per-  fectly  justifiable  to  them,  they  even  boast  about  it.  I  don't  understand  why  the  managers  or  directors,  members  of  the  administration,  are  supposed  to  be  less  fallible  or  prone  to  moral  degen-  eracy  than  they  are.  Gondzik  seems  to  think  it  isn't  a  matter  of  morality  but  principle.  Much  of  the  time,  to  be  truthful,  I  haven't  the  faintest  idea  what  Gondzik  is  talking  about.  He  can't  answer  a  direct  question,  that's  for  sure.  The  question  of  the  books,  for  example:  &quot;some  books  are  timeless,&quot;  how  does  that  explain  the  in-  consistency  of  having  them  here?  With  their  bleak  covers,  often  with  gold  let-  tering,  they  belong  in  some  attic  or  secondhand  store,  indubitably  past,  over  and  done  with.  To  prove  this,  their  subversive  relation  to  time,  the  mere  look  of  them  transports  me,  more  swiftly  than  any  machine,  to  a  first-floor  loft  in  Pe-  tersfield,  [REDACTED].  I  am  edging  along  the  aisles,  the  floorboards  creak.  I  am  craning  my  neck  to  read  the  titlee  on  the  upper  shelves:  &quot;The  Letters  of  Franz  Liszt,&quot;  &quot;The  Great  Events  by  Famous  His-  torians,&quot;  the  collected  vol-  umes  of  Punch  from  1845-  87,  &quot;Poems,&quot;  by  William  Vaughn  Moody,  &quot;Happy  Day,  or  the  Confessions  of  a  Woman  Minister,&quot;  &quot;Sagas  of  the  Norse  Kings&quot;  in  four  volumes.  A  little  Bertrand  Russell,  to  bring  us  up  to  some  long-forgot-  ten  date;  Shaw  and  Trot-  sky.  While  painfully  read-  ing  these  titles  (in  Peters-  field)  I  am  feeling  love  and  anger  and  anxiety  specifi-  cally  related  to  time,  I  am  troubled  by  old  and  irrele-  vant  unhappiness,  For  these  books  to  be  here,  where  we  are  meant  to  be  totally  free,  is  a  crying  shame.  What  is  their  purpose,  I  wonder.  Some  sort  of  test?  I've  been  tempted,  it's  true,  to  open  &quot;The  Married  Life  of  the  Frederic  Carrolls,&quot;  by  Jesse  Lynch  Williams.  In  fact,  I  gave  in,  but  only  to  find  such  phrases  as  &quot;the  next  day,&quot;  &quot;the  week  before,&quot;  &quot;at  that  mo-  ment;&quot;  soI  shut  it  again,  feeling-as  I  suppose  I  was  intended  to-guilty.  Nothing,  I'm  sure,  is  inadvertent  in  this  place,  everything  is  planned,  every  book  catalogued  over  in  the  office.  The  office  has  the  answer  to  all  my  questions-is  that  why  Gondzik  asked  if  I  would  like  to  see  it,  was  he  hint-  ing  at  something?  If  one  could  see  their  files,  their  records  ...  but  that's  not  the  way  to  do  it.  There  may  be  a  way,  but  not  by  breaking  and  en-  tering  at  night.  They  certainly  have  a  system  of  alarums,  I  can  imagine  the  whole  place  pealing,  searchlights  sweep-  ing  the  secret  crannies  of  the  woods.  I  swing  out  of  bed,  frightened.  Whatever  time  it  is,  I'm  going  to  get  up.  The  lawn  is  misty,  the  statue  in  the  lily  pond  rises  out  of  mist.  I  go  to  my  bathroom  and  hurl  myself  at  the  shower,  fighting  the  hard  stream  of  water  with  clenched  eyes,  letting  it  batter  on  my  spine.  As  I'm  drying  my-  self,  the  bell  rings  for  breakfast.  I  am  always  a  little  late.  Breakfast  is  more  of  an  ordeal  than  dinner.  No  one  feels  any  enthusiasm  for  the  immoderate  gift  of  time;  we  wish  we  could  just  have  an  hour,  maybe  forty  minutes,  we  could  be  grateful  for  that.  The  blonde,  who  works  nights,  comes  dressed  for  breakfast  in  chiffon.  Paul  wears  a  track  suit  and  his  smile.  Rowena  cowers  in  the  corner  of  her  chair.  Revlon  is  immaculate,  and  most  of  the  others  put  on  clothes  of  some  sort,  but  I  resolute-  ly  wear  a  dressing  gown.  Gondzik  is  always  early,  the  temperature  of  his  energy  already  above  normal.  I  avoid  him  at  breakfast,  if  I  can,  being  too  full  of  fears  ofa  private  nature.  This  morning  Revlon,  our  illicit  news  vender,  has  a  most  surprising  rumor:  &quot;It's  Sunday,&quot;  he  says,  look-  ing  straight  ahead,  not  mov-  ing  his  lips.  This  means,  if  he's  correct,  that  yesterday  was  Saturday  and  tomor-  row  will  be  Monday,  we  can  calculate  that  seven  lights  and  darknesses  from  now  it  will  be  Sunday  again.  With  a  twinge  of  excite-  ment  I  pass  on  the  news,  in  the  same  way,  to  Rowena;  she,  disguising  it  with  a  yawn,  to  the  gaunt  man;  and  so  on,  round  the  table.  It's  a  good  thing  Gondzik  isn't  sitting  with  us,  he  wouldn't  realize  the  signif-  icance  of  this  fact  (or  ru-  mor)  and  might  blurt  it  out,  causing  distress  and  even  punishment  to  someone.  My  father  prepares  for  church,  for  matins;  in  his  cassock  with  the  black  cum-  merbund  (no  popery  purple  for  him)  he  strides  about  with  the  look  of  a  busy  man,  barges  through  the  swing  door  into  the  kitchen  in  search  of  coffee,  digestive  biscuits,  any  form  of  nour-  ishment.  He  was  up  long  before  breakfast,  adminis-  tering  the  bread  and  wine.  My  mother  and  I  cut  the  " b"bread,  holding  sharp  knives  with  both  hands,  chopping  the  inferior  bread  (my  mother  would  never  serve  such  stuff)  into  neat  cubes:  the  Body.  The  Blood  is  kept  in  the  vestry,  which  smells  moldy  as  my  bath-  room.  The  bell  ropes,  with  colored  tapes  like  Maypoles,  hang  down  from  the  tower.  When  the  bell  ringers  come,  taking  off  their  jackets  to  get  to  work,  the  noise  is  so  clamorous  we  can't  hear  ourselves  speak,  and  the  babies  cry.  I  am  now  hearing  church  bells  as  they  should  be  heard,  from  a  great  distance,  the  skillful  downward  scale,  the  broken  chords  so  melancholy  they  break  my  heart.  My  soul  doth  magnify  the  Lord,  now  lettest  thou  thy  servant  depart  in  peace.  At  mat-  ins  we  have  the  Te  Deum,  which  in  my  head  I  write  Tedium.  My  mother's  stomach  rum-  bles-how  can  she  leave  her  endless  chores  for  so  long?  I  try  to  lift  the  heavy,  dead-  heavy  hassock  between  my  feet  and  am  told  off  by  one  flick  of  my  mother's  ha-  zel  eye.  O  Worship  the  King  All  glo-  rious  above/O  gratefully  sing  'His  power  and  his  love/Our  Shield  and  Defender/The  Ancient  of  days/Pa-  vilioned  in  splendor  /And  girded  with  praise.  How  I  relish  that  pavilioned  in  splendor,  rolling  it  round  my  tongue,  sucking  on  it.  My  father,  with  perfect  enunciation  saved  for  Sundays  and  the  reading  aloud  of  Browning,  implores  us  from  the  high  pulpit  to  believe  in  Life.  I  am,  he  calls  sonorously,  the  Resurrection  and  the  Life.  This  tormented  man,  who  has  only  once  played  a  childish  game  with  me,  who  despises  jokes  and  is  unable  to  recognize  irony,  requires  us  to  be  Joyful,  full  of  Joy.  I  can  romp  along  with  a  God  pavilioned  in  splendor,  but  all  this  is  beyond  me.  What  joy?  The  rooms  are  dense  with  his  unhappiness,  which  no  one  can  re-  lieve.  He  will  play  the  piano  after  church,  some  doleful  dirge,  and  a  few  favored  neighbors  will  come  in  for  4368696e61  tea  in  shallow  cups,  little  bis-  cuits  with  icing  on  the  top,  sometimes  brandy  snaps.  I  am  so  awkward  on  Sundays,  getting  in  everybody's  way.  My  mother  is  distracted  (there's  still  the  joint  and  vegetables  to  come,  the  suet  pudding  or  rhubarb  pie,  we  eat  the  huge  bounty  of  my  mother's  cooking  and  grow  fatter  and  fatter,  my  skin  protests  in  acne,  the  afternoons  are  loaded  with  sleep),  and  my  father  overworked,  Was  this  the  greatest  sermon  of  them  all?  Has  it  changed  the  world,  will  it  be  headlined  in  the  Times,  will  great  men  write  him  letters  of  thanks,  will  girls  wash  his  feet  in  their  tears?  The  tea,  the  biscuits,  the  joint,  the  pudding,  the  sleep.  That  is  all.  My  heart,  broken  by  the  bells,  bleeds  for  my  father.  Here  there  is  no  suchtime  as  too  late.  Sunday  is  a  terrible  day.  I  wish  it  were  Tuesday,  a  day  of  reasonable  hope.  Gondzik,  with  his  interminable  his-  tory  of  Sabbaths  (now  ostensibly  dis-  carded),  won't  appreciate  the  taste,  smell,  and  weight  of  this  day.  Neither  will  the  simple  Elizabeth,  who  hardly  notices  whether  it  is  light  or  dark.  Paul  of  the  red  hair  and  pink  skin  and  silly  smile  is  off  giggling  in  a  world  of  his  own  (found  on  the  croquet  lawn?  ).  Revlon  will  spend  the  day  as  always,  with  his  ear  to  the  ground  to  detect  some  distant  knocking,  hammering,  or  shovelling  that  will  give  him  a  clue  as  to  what  they  are  up  to  over  in  the  of-  fice.  Although  he  knows  it  is  Sunday      (unless  he  mistook  the  signals),  it  doesn't  seem  to  have  occurred  to  him  that  offices  close  on  Sunday;  if  he  hears  anything  it  will  be  the  burrowing  of  moles  or  the  tapping  of  earthworms.  The  silly  blonde  picks  threads  from  her  negligee,  her  work  (of  being  sexually  attractive)  never  done,  men  make  as  many  demands  on  the  seventh  day  as  any  other  and  she's  only  got  one  pair  of  hands.  The  geriatric  thirty-year-old  feeds  himself  with  cereal,  never  speak-  ing  above  a  vague  mumble  and  then  always  of  customs  far  more  ancient  than  an  Anglican  Sunday;  I  don't  know  why  he  was  allowed  to  bring  his  anthropology  with  him,  unless  he  is  an  anthropologist.  But  they  can't,  after  all,  separate  people  from  what  they  are.  So  I  go  to  my  room,  heavy  with  breakfast  and  loneliness.  They  can  give  us  all  the  time  in  the  world,  but  they  can't  stop  the  past  increasing  day  by  day,  a  lengthening  shadow.  Such  sub-  versive  thoughts  are  more  suitable  for  twilight,  when  the  weight  of  food  and  the  exquisite  melancholy  of  evensong  come  together  to  create  a  state  near  ecstasy,  a  kind  of  trembling  on  the  brink  of  wisdom  that  is  almost  unbear-  able,.  Afterward,  we  schoolgirls  go  and  moon  in  the  rose  garden,  languish " b"lingeringly  by  the  lily  pond.  We  fall  in  love  with  each  other,  trail  our  hands  in  the  brown  water,  write  Sunday  poetry  full  of  sighs  and  sorrow.  Never  again  is  our  theme  at  the  age  of  fifteen  or  so:  nevermore.  It  is  true.  Never  again  shall  we  be  so  near  our  Nune  Dimittis,  nevermore  feel  so  keenly  the  bliss  of  dying.  We  are  doomed  to  Monday's  racket,  to  men  and  children,  uncom-  fortable  journeys,  shopping  lists,  anxi-  ety,  the  manipulation  of  dishwashers  and  washing  machines  and  vacuum  cleaners  and  cars;  to  lotions  and  vita-  min-enriched  creams,  hair  conditioners  and  deodorants,  pots  of  this  and  that  collecting  in  drawers  and  cupboards.  We  are  doomed  to  become  wombs  on     legs,  to  make  telephone  calls  without  the  appropriate  money,  to  beg,  plead,  blackmail,  weep,  to  make  a  terrible  noise  about  living.  How  distressing,  after  the  luminous  melancholy  of  Sun-  day.  I  could  become  a  nun,  perhaps.  Fold  my  hands  just  so.  Glide  on  casters  down  cloisters,  my  eyes  downcast.  Aft-  er  all  that  din,  the  peace  of  Guinevere.  The  most  approximate  element,  in  the  meanwhile,  is  water.  I  will  go  and  float  in  the  pool,  folding  all  my  sweet-  ness  up.  Collecting  together  insectre-  pellent,  oil,  towel,  finding  my  way  confidently  through  the  maze  of  pas-  sages,  past  closed  doors,  across  unused  lounges,  escaping,  I  think,  from  Sun-  day,  I  set  out.  IV  HE  way  to  the  pool  is  very  straightforward,  but  for  the  first  time  I  lose  it  and  find  myself  in  the  vegetable  garden,  most  bewil-  dered.  The  vegetable  garden  is  large,  surrounded  by  a  thick  brick  wall  against  which  grow  nectarines,  peaches,  plums,  and  (in  their  season)  apples.  The  or-  namental  iron  gate  is  missing-fallen  at  last  from  its  rusty  hinges,  or  sold  for  scrap  in  some  emergency-which  is  why  I  wander  straight  into  the  garden.  If  there  had  been  a  gate,  I  would  not  have  opened  it.  Screwing  up  my  eyes  against  the  sun,  I  look  down  the  borders  of  Aaron's  rod,  poppies,  and  old-man's-beard,  toward  the  green-  houses.  A  man  in  shirt,  sleeves  is  digging  la-  boriously,  his  back  to  me,  his  right  foot  pushes  the  spade  into  the  hard  earth,  then  he  loosens  the  earth  and  throws  a  spadeful  aside,  his  distant  back  grim  as  a  gravedig-  ger's.  Assuming  (not  without  reason  )  that  he  is  a  gardener,  I  loaf  past  the  strawberry  bed,  approving  the  crimson  berries  lying  in  straw,  enjoying  the  change  of  scene.  But  they  have  everything  here,  black  and  red  currants,  gooseberries  bursting  out  of  their  skins,  loganberries,  raspberries.  The  as-  paragus  thrives  in  its  trench;  row  upon  row  of  delicate  carrot  ferns  marshalled  in  front  of  the  taller  potato  leaves;  cabbage  and  cauli-  flower  and  broccoli,  none  of  it  gone  to  seed;  sweet  peas  and  rhubarb,  green  beans  climbing  up  green  string,  abundant  peas  (I  reach  over  the  low,  clipped  hedge,  wrench  a  pod  from  the  stalk,  split  it  with  my  thumb-  nail,  eat  each  nestling  pea  deliberately,  while  longing  to  cram  them  " b"all  at  once  into  my  mouth).  Broad  beans  too,  regiments  of  freshly  watered  lettuce;  marrows  basking  in  the  sun,  a  field  of  spinach.  This  man  is  a  good  gardener.  I  am  no  good  at  anything,  deterred  by  my  mother's  skill  with  cuttings,  clippings,  annuals,  biannuals,  perennials,  dividing,  pruning,  and  other  mysteries.  However,  she  doesn't  grow  vegetables,  leaving  that  side  of  the  thing-as  she  leaves  repairs  to  anything  but  clothes,  all  forms  of  electrical  work,  coal  heaving,  and  log  sawing-to  her  husband.  And  yet  how  sensible,  how  satisfactory  to  grow  food.  My  mouth  waters,  appetite  stirs.  I  am  now  at  the  opposite  end  of  the  garden,  walking  slowly  along  be-  side  the  greenhouses  (carrying  this  weight  of  aerosol  sprays,  towel,  and  book)  toward  the  gardener.  I  see,  be-  hind  glass  milky  and  old  as  a  cataract  eye,  ripe  tomatoes  no  larger  than  grapes,  pot  after  pot  of  geraniums.  The  door  of  one  of  the  greenhouses  is  open,  and  I  take  a  lungful  of  that  particular  humid  air,  hear  the  drip  of  water  in  a  rusty  tank.  I'm  tempted  to  go  in-  side,  drink  a  tomato  after  piercing  its  skin  with  my  teeth.  But  the  gardener,  straightening,  has  his  eye  onme.  I  manage  atimid  smile,  bumping  the  bag  against  my  bare  legs,  feet  drag-  ging  along  the  path.  I  have  never  seen  a  man  sweat  so  generously.  Torrents  of  sweat  pour  down  his  face  and  neck  into  the  col-  larless  shirt,  which  he  might  just  as  well  not  be  wearing.  His  gray  flannel  trousers  are  hitched  high  with  braces;  inside  them  he  must  be  swimming.  He  is,  to  me,  old:  an  old,  burly  man  wip-  ing  the  sweat  out  of  his  eyes  with  the  back  of  his  forearm,  peering  at  me.  &quot;Dinnertime,  is  it?&quot;  I  don't  know  what  to  say,  just  hang  about,  afraid  of  passing  him.  &quot;Well,  then.&quot;  He  sticks  the  spade  in  the  earth  with  a  final  gesture,  lum-  bers  toward  me,  mopping  himself  now  with  a  huge  handkerchief.  &quot;It  gets  the  sugar  going,  vou  know.  In  the  blood.  You  want  a  tomato?&quot;  I  nod  my  head,  fearful.  His  little  blue  eyes  grab  at  my  legs.  He  takes  my  hand,  his  own  slippery  with  sweat,  and  leads  me  into  the  greenhouse.  &quot;Have  what  you  like,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Feel  free.&quot;  He  closes  the  greenhouse  door  and  pretends  to  potter  with  something,  a  watering  can,  raffia,  I  don't  know.  I  reach  out  my  hand  for  a  tomato.  He  has  sneaked  up,  this  fat  old  man,  be-  hind  me  and  suddenly  plunges  his  face  into  my  neck.  All  sweat  and  bristle,  he  laps  at  my  neck  as  the  Masai  tribe  drink  at  the  necks  of  their  cattle.  No,  I  don't  cry  for  help.  I  don't  try     to  resist  him.  I  am  still  holding  the  can-  vas  bag  with  its  preparations  for  the  pool.  The  sooner  I  can  get  to  the  pool  the  better.  He  takes  the  bag  from  me,  puts  it  deliberately  on  the  floor,  sits  down  in  an  old  basket  chair  that  can  hardly  take  his  weight.  When  he  pulls  me  onto  his  knee  it  sways  perilously.  From  now  on  everything  is  accompanied  by  the  protesting  groans  of  the  old  chair.  First  he  rocks  me;  then  his  hand  slides  up  under  my  smock.  His  fingers  become  troubled,  searching  here  and  there;  at  last,  finding  their  way,  they  separate  me.  He  is  talking  all  the  time,  but  quite  unintelligible.  When  I  look  at  his  face  itis  not  triumphant,  the  noble  face  of  a  conqueror;  it  is  silly,  sheepish,  the  face  of  a  man  caught  do-  ing  wrong.  Disgust  will  make  me  cruel  from  now  on.  How  I  despise  him.  Iget  up  (the  chair  is  relieved),  pull  at  my  smock,  pick  up  my  bag.  He  also  stands,  too  ashamed  to  look  me  in  the  eye,  and  turns  to  reach  for  his  collar  and  jacket.  When  he  puts  on  the  clerical  collar,  its  black  bib  over  the  sweat-soaked  shirt,  I  burst  out  of  the  greenhouse  and  start  runningrunning  running.  ...  O  the  pool,  straight  to  it  with  no  hesitation,  tearing  off  my  smock  on  the  way,  out  of  my  slippers  and  crash,  smack  onto  the  cold  water,  stomach  smarting  as  I  go  under.  Open-  ing  my  eyes,  I  see  Gondzik  staring  at  me  from  above.  But  I  swim  deeper,  huddling  into  the  water.  He  descends  with  hair  flying,  beard  still  apparently  dry,  grabs  me  by  the  ankle,  and  hauls  me  to  the  surface.  As  we  break,  a  tangle  of  arms  and  legs,  into  the  air,  I  can  hear  myself  screaming  and  change  the  key  of  the  scream  so  that  it  will  sound  like  laughter.  Various  people  sitting  round  the  pool  look  appalled:  we  appear  to  be  behaving  like  two-year-  olds.  I  push  away  from  the  side,  cast  myself  off  and  drift  face  upward,  weightless,  the  water  lapping  against  my  temples.  Now  all  strange  hours  and  all  strange  loves  are  over,  dreams  and  desires  and  sombre  songs  and  sweet.  Now  folds  the  lily  all  her  sweetness  up  and  slips  into  the  bosom  of  the  lake.  Now  drowns  the  gardener  in  the  porphyry  font.  Now  I  know  what  to  expect  from  the  place,  that  itis  full  of  traps  and  snares,  one  must  be  contin-  ually  wary,  water  is  the  only  innocent  element.  Slowly,  very  very  slowly,  I  lay  the  memory  to  rest.  It  leaves  me,  sinking  fathom  after  fathom  into  dark-ness.  But  I  float  like  a  cork,  rocking  in  the  wake  of  Gondzik's  energetic  crawl.  V  &amp;  AVE  you  met  anyone?&quot;  Gond-zik  asks  casually.  &quot;You  mean  from  the  out-  side?  No.&quot;  I  have  prepared  myself  for  this,  the  lie  is  convincing.  Gondzik  gets  supplies  sent  from  somewhere.  He  pours  small  measures  of  brandy  into  two  plastic  glasses.  He  gets  his  bed  made  every  day  (the  rest  of  us  only  twice  in  a  number  of  days)  and  has  the  confidence  of  a  man  with  special  privileges:  of  which  he  was  once,  or  will  be  again,  deprived?  &quot;Have  you?&quot;  I  ask.  After  a  long  pause,  studying  the  brown  liquid  in  his  glass,  tipping  it  this  way  and  that,  he  says,  &quot;No.&quot;  We  are  both  lying.  &quot;I've  seen  a  dog,  though.  Running  about  on  the  lawn.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;It's  mine.&quot;  &quot;What  makes  you  say  that?  This  is  a  red  setter.&quot;  &quot;Then  it  can't  be  mine.  Mine  is  a  mongrel.&quot;  So  I  have  suddenly  appropriated  a  dog.  I  know  (with  a  slight  sense  of  dread-life  is  so  much  easier  without  responsibilities)  that  before  long  it  will  come  bounding  toward  me  down  the  pool  path,  throwing  itself  at  me  in  an  ecstasy  of  love,  barking  its  head  off.  Once  things  begin  to  happen,  they  hap-  pen  fast.  For  instance,  I  took  an  interminable  time,  or  at  least  a  few  moments,  trying  to  convince  myself  that  I  could  avoid  Gondzik,  since  I  already  knew  him.  But  he  stood  patiently  in  my  way  and  I  have  to  get  to  know  him  very  differently,  without  disturbing  my  memories  or  borrowing  on  my  expecta-  tions  of  thefuture.  So  the  dog,  when  it  comes,  will  bea  present  dog,  a  dog  of  this  place.  I  will  be  part  of  its  life,  but  it  will  not  be  part  of  mine,  not  to  begin  with.  Nevertheless,  together  with  the  sense  of  dread  is  a  sense  of  pleasure.  What  a  funny  dog  with  its  bat  ears,  head  on  one  side,  paw  lifted,  nose  twitching  from  side  to  side,  from  smell  to  smell:  something  to  look  forward  to.  Gondzik's  room  is  tricked  out  like  a  chapel,  a  chapel  which  some  girl,  in  an  excessof  girlishness,  has  painted  virgin  white.  All  it  lacks  is  muslin  lifting  and  floating  in  the  breeze  from  the  fan.  There  is  a  white  altar  screen,  white  choir  stalls,  a  white  prie-dieu.  Dark  Gondzik  doesn't  suit  it  at  all.  He  doesn't  even  know  what  a  prie-dieu  is  for,  or  the  hole  in  the  (white)  papal  " b"chair,  unless  it's  a  commode.  Neverthe-  less  he  seems  quite  atease  in  this  set-  ting,  doesn't  find  it  offensive.  &quot;I  hear  he's  going  to  have  to  re-  sign.&quot;  &quot;Who?  The  Director?&quot;  &quot;He  won't  make  a  statement.  Says  he's  too  busy  laying  out  the  tennis  courts.&quot;  &quot;Who  told  you?  _  &quot;Not  that  I'm  against  tennis  courts,  mind  you.  I  like  tennis.&quot;  &quot;He's  fiddling,  you  mean,  while  4974616c79  burns.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  question  of  where  the  money  comes  from.  Otherwise  tennis  courts  are  perfectly  valid,  don't  you  think?&quot;  &quot;Who  says  what  you  hear?&quot;  &quot;Oh  ...  people  talk,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;But  if  the  Director  resigns,  will  it  make  any  difference?  To  us?&quot;  &quot;I  shouldn't  think  so.  They'll  prob-  ably  carry  on  with  the  tennis  courts  just  the  same.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  corruption  is  inevi-  table?&quot;  Narrowing  his  eyes,  he  seems  to  look  into  some  distant  cranny  of  time,  per-  haps  into  his  own  future.  &quot;'Maybe.&quot;  The  trouble  with  Gondzik  (now)  is  that  he  has  become  an  athletic  intel-  lectual.  Life,  particularly  sex,  has  gone  to  his  head.  I  have  almost  given  up  hope  (if  it  was  hope)  of  his  body.  At  one  time,  I  thought  he  would  drive  into  me  with  his  eyes  holding  my  face  like  a  vise.  We  would  stare  each  other  out  until  we  became  entranced, our  eves  locked  together,  absolutely  thoughtless,  in  a  state  of  shock.  We  worked  slowly,  with  dedication,  toward  this  miracle.  Now  he  has  so  many  thoughts,  theories,  speculations,  con-  clusions,  premises,  data,  analyses,  and  propositions  in  his  head  that  his  flesh  and  skin  have  become  insensitive.  He  thrashes  water  as  though  it  has  to  be  subdued;  he  attacks  harmless  games;  he  whacks  the  air,  deafens  it  with  noise  for  no  apparent  reason.  He  no  longer  conveys  sweet  messages  from  mouth  to  mouth  but  bites  and  gnaws:  again  the  dog  image,  the  meatless  bone,  the  beg-  ging.  He  talks  about  all  women  as  girls,  who  are  in  constant  supply;  or  perhaps  it  is  their  demand  that  is  con-  stant,  since  they  are  kept  in  a  state  of  deprivation.  If  I  said  to  him,  &quot;Be  still,&quot;  he  would  laugh  it  off,  forgetting,  or  not  yet  knowing,  what  stillness  means.  He  is,  of  course,  equally  hopeless  about  me,  about  my  obsessions.  He  doubts  whether  I  can  be  reclaimed.  I  have  been  unfaithful  to  him  too  often.  He  disapproves  strongly  (with  all  the  ambivalent  feelings  of  a  father?  )  of  my  nightly  dreams  about  you,  whether  they  are  hostile  or  tender.  I  say  that  as  far  as  dreams  are  concerned  I  am  probably  incurable,  and  may  well  be  visited  by  you  for  the  rest  of  my  life.  It  seems  to  Gondzik  thatI  am  willfully  helpless  in  this  respect.  One  good  push  and  I  could  be  rid  of  you  entirely-why  the  flabbi-  ness,  the  apathy,  the  passive  accept-ance?  He  uses  the  word  &quot;exorcise.&quot;  You  are  to  be  &quot;exorcised&quot;  by  some  means  or  other.  But  you  know  what?  At  this  point,  I  can't  be  bothered.  I  have  used  so  many  means,  struggled  so  hard,  and  the  result  is  not  entirely  con-  temptible.  My  waking  hours  are  undis-  turbed  so  long  as  I  keep  to  the  straight  and  narrow  path-see  what  happens  immediately  I  leave  it-and  avoid  heights,  precipices,  quicksand,  swamps,  cul-de-sacs,  and  regard  every  package  and  letter  (perhaps  some  sort  of  ray  machine,  such  as  they  use  at  airports,  would  be  wise)  with  reasonable  sus-  picion.  We  are  all  so  cluttered  with  restrictions  anyway  that  it  hardly  mat-  ters.  If  I  can't  be  a  nun,  I  can  at  least  steer  myself  toward  some  tolerable  tropic  clime  where  the  chances  of  con-  tentment  are  slightly  above  average  for  the  time  of  year.  Naturally  this  would  seem  abom-  inably  dull  and  tepid  to  Gondzik.  It  does  to  me.  But  unlike  Gondzik  I  know  that  survival  is  a  long,  hard  slog  from  the  amoeba  upward.  In  spite  of  his  scorn,  his  impatience,  I  haven't  done  too  badly.  If  I  can  survive  an  encoun-  ter  with  the  gardener  in  bright  day-  light  and  with  you  in  the  unpredictable  landscapes  of  my  dreams,  I  can  sur-  vive  anything.  Isn't  that  the  point?  One  must  always  at  all  times  be  con-  tained  and  defensive,  rigidly  abiding  by  one's  own  rules.  I  salute  myself,  without  irony:  doing  well.  &quot;I  hear  that  three  new  people  are  coming,&quot;  Gondzik  says,  adding  gloom-  ily,  &quot;All  men.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  been  to  the  vegetable  garden?&quot;  I  will  not  be  drawn  back  there,  of  course;  but  there  is  pleasure  in  casually  introducing  a  forbidden  sub-  ject  into  ordinary  conversation.  &quot;'Where  do  they  come  from,  why  do  they  come,  I've  never  heard  of  any  of  them.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  you'd  like  to  come  with  me  one  day.  There  are  strawberries  and  peas,  peaches,  tomatoes.&quot;  &quot;In  winter  there  are  very  few  peo-  ple.  They  have  wine  at  dinner.&quot;  His  hand  moves  idly  to  the  table  lamp;  he  pulls  the  chain,  switching  it  on.  &quot;'You  have  been  here  in  the  winter.  You  have.&quot;  He  looks  puzzled;  almost  hurt,  if  this  present  Gondzik  can  be  hurt.  &quot;Maybe.&quot;  &quot;It  was  cold,  very  cold,  your  feet  froze  to  the  ground!&quot;  He  bats  the  air  for  silence,  but  I  am  momentarily  possessed.  &quot;The  lake  was  frozen,  you  walked  across  it,  she  was  skating  cutting  figures  of  eight,  she  was  eight,  wasn't  shee-&quot;  &quot;Her  little  skirt  like  daisy  petals  " b"flung  out  from  a  yellow  stem,  she  loves  me,  she  loves  me  not-&quot;  &quot;You  plucked  them,  leaving  shivering.&quot;  &quot;God  damn  you!&quot;  He  will  probably  hit  me;  but  he  doesn't;  he  breathes  at  me  as  he  should  breathe  in  the  water,  coming  up  for  air;  then  he  walks  over  to  the  papal  chair,  sits  heavily,  beard  on  chest.  I  wish  I  could  go  on,  but  the  in-  spiration,  vision,  whatever  it  was,  is  over.  I  have  no  idea  what  possessed  me:  no  skating  child  in  my  experience,  the  lake  has  looked  solid  with  slimy  weed  but  never  frozen.  He  would  have  told  me  about  it,  surely,  as  we  lay  in  bed  or  by  the  fire  or  in  the  meadow.  I  believe  he  told  me  everything,  ex-  cept  what  his  analyst  thought  of  me.  Then  perhaps  the  skating  child  who  burst  out  of  my  mouth  is  part  of  my  memory.  He  must  have  described  her  so  accurately  that,  in  my  mind's  eye  at  least,  I  have  actually  seen  her.  I  am  determined  to  go  further,  however  risky  it  is.  &quot;Do  you  remember  how  we  met?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember,&quot;  he  says,  re-  peating  pat  the  rules.  &quot;I  experience.&quot;  I  attack  him  with  some  tirade  about  sheepish  obedience,  accuse  him  of  cow-  ardice,  of  inertia,  I  venomously  tell  him  that  he  bores  me,  is  mediocre,  a  sissy  kisser,  teacher's  pet,  a  conniver  at  fascism,  a  parasite,  a  sycophant.  He  is  shaking  with  more  and  more  laughter,  a  man  watching  some  incredibly  comic  antic.I  am  entertaining  him,  for  God's  sake.  I  throw  myself  down  on  the  floor,  drum  the  floor  with  my  heels,  twist  and  turn  while  some  part  of  me  quite  calmly  waits  for  the  result.  There  is  no  result.  He  is  speechless  with  laugh-  ter.  Tear-smeared,  exhausted,  I  get  up  and  stagger  into  a  corner,  stand  in  the  corner.  A  grown  woman  and  I  can't  get  what  I  want,  a  simple  agreement.  &quot;There's  no  point  in  being  here,&quot;  he  says  at  last,  sober  again,  &quot;if  you  don't  go  along  with  it,  obey  the  rules  as  you  say.  It's  one  of  the  few  situa-  tions  which  one  can  quite  validly  call  a  waste  of  time.  Why  don't  you  leave?&quot;  &quot;Leave?&quot;  &quot;Of  course.  There's  nothing  to  stop  you.&quot;  &quot;But  where  would  I  go?&quot;  He  shrugs.  &quot;I  don't  know.  Back  to  all  that,  I  suppose.&quot;  &quot;All  what?&quot;  ''The  obsessions.  The  loneliness  you  have  described,&quot;  &quot;Have  I  described  loneliness?&quot;  &quot;Of  course.  It's  easy  to  avoid  meet-  ing  people  out  there.&quot;  &quot;But  there  are  millions  of  people  out  there.&quot;  Now  I  am  the  one  repeat-  ing  what  I  have  been  told.  I  am  sure  her  I've  never  seen  millions  of  people.  Maybe  I've  seen  a  dozen,  and  a  dog.  &quot;Are  you  sure  you  haven't  met  any-  one  here?&quot;  I  am  a  bad  liar  when  caught  off  my  guard.  My  lies  have  to  be  carefully  constructed,  with  a  basis  of  truth.  Therefore  I  prefer  not  to  answer  this  question,  or  rather  to  parry  it  with  a  sullen  &quot;You.&quot;  &quot;'Then  why  ask  me  if  I  remember  how  we  met?&quot;  &quot;All  right.  You're  cleverer  than  I  am.&quot;  &quot;No.  I  expect  I've  been  here  long-  er.  That's  all.&quot;  The  smugness  of  it.  I'll  go  back  to  my  motionless  journeys,  an  armchair  traveller  to  every  place  under  the  sun,  including  the  moon;  I'll  speculate  about  bathrooms  and  nineteenth-cen-  tury  poets  and  whether  worms  have  teeth,  like  the  Duchess  of  [REDACTED]  (a  kindred  spirit  wherever  she  is.  The  most  I  can  hope  for,  it  seems,  is  to  be  a  clown  tumbling  through  my  own  hoops.  &quot;Time  you  grew  up  a  little,&quot;  Gond-  zik  says  quietly,  standing  close  to  me.  &quot;You  need  to  forget  all  that.&quot;  &quot;All  what?&quot;  But  already,  over  the  space  of  a  few  seconds,  I  have  no  idea  what  he  means.  He  holds  me  by  the  shoulders  and  moves  me  a  little  nearer  to  the  light.  &quot;We'll  make  something  of  you  yet.  Take  a  good  look  at  me.&quot;  Ido.I  look  hard.  I  realize  that  it  was  not  me  whom  Gondzik  nailed  down  with  those  little  flickering  eyes;  he  has  never  rolled  and  expostulated  in  the  middle  of  a  meadow  with  me.  It  happened  with  someone  else.  I,  not  Gondzik,  am  the  stranger.  It  is  very  curious  to  begin  with,  as  I  stand  looking  at  him.  I  feel  myself  rocking  on  my  feet,  losing  balance.  I  am  not  who  I  thought  I  was.  I  am  literally  no  longer  myself.  I  have  no  past  but  am  doing  everything  for  the  first  time,  'This  is  where  I  begin.  Memory,  if  it  ever  existed,  is  irre-  trievably  drowned.  Gondzik  has  nev-  er  met  me  before.  I  didn't  lose  my  way  when  I  went  to  the  vegetable  garden,  there  was  no  way  to  lose.  I  was  guided  there  by  official  directions.  I  must  obey  official  directions,  there  is  no  alterna-  tive.  Gondzik  nods,  and  switches  off  the  light.  I  don't  feel  at  all  foolish  as  I  ask  him  how  I  am  to  get  back  to  my  room.  He,  not  finding  the  question  foolish,  accompanies  me.  FROM  now  on  itis  all  (briefly)  less  confusing.  I  sit  still  in  my  rocking  chair,  my  mind  is  blank,  I  make  no  journeys.  Gondzik  is  simply  Gondzik,  I'm  no  longer  curious  about  overheard  remarks,  The  tree  is  a  tree,  the  lily  pond  a  lily  pond,  the  bushes  are  bushes,  When  the  red  setter  runs  across  the  lawn,  he  is  a  red  setter  running  across  the  lawn.  I  don't  look  forward,  and  I  don't  look  back.  Since  I  don't  dream,  I  don't  remember  my  dreams,  or  the  other  way  round  (a  little  rocky  here).  In  any  case,  at  this  time  you  no  longer  exist  for  me;  whether  you  exist  for  other  people  is  a  matter  of  no  im-  portance.  I  am,  you  are,  he  is:  that's  the  lesson.  I  study  it  doggedly.  My  light  brackets  shine  much  brighter,  I've  noticed.  For  the  first  time,  I  take  a  straight-  forward  interest  in  the  others,  even  going  so  far  as  to  memorize  some  of  their  names.  Elizabeth  just  happens  to     " b"stand  in  an  attitude  I  would  once  have  called  dejected.  Paul  smiles  because  that  is  the  way  his  face  is.  The  an-  thropologist,  Hermann,  is  an  anthro-  pologist.  Revlon  is  a  man  who  says  that  he  deciphers  messages  from  the  ground.  The  tiny  woman  with  cropped  hair  and  a  face  like  a  marmoset  (Rowena)  is  a  tiny  woman  with  a  face  like  a  marmo-  set.  Now  you  ask  how  do  I  know  what  a  marmoset  is,  I  don't.  It's  one  of  the  many  words  I've  learned  by  heart.  Words  are  words,  Their  meanings  are  their  meanings.  And  so  on.  I  am  now  included  much  more  in  the  community.  I  have  become  one  of  Them.  I  still  don't  understand  every-  thing  they  say,  but  I  accept  everything  they  say:  I  met  my  mother  in  the  rose  garden,  I  will  be  meeting  my  son  out-  side  the  garage,  my  aunt  is  coming  to  the  pool.  Very  advanced  stuff,  this:  hard  to  grasp,  for  a  beginner.  I  can  get  as  far  as  &quot;I  am  eating  my  hash&quot;  and  they  nod  graciously,  congratulating  me.  I  am  very  proud.  I  am  given  an  orna-  mental  card,  stars  on  a  blue  back-  ground,  &quot;With  Best  Wishes  FromThe  Director&quot;:  handwritten,  the  &quot;r&quot;  com-  ing  back  on  itself  and  making  an  emphatic  line  underneath  that  august  title.  Also  I  am  now  entrusted  to  pass  on  more  important  rumors  than  what  day  of  the  week  it  is:  Hathaway  is  out,  Rogers  is  in,  but  Hathaway  says  that  Phillips  knew  all  the  time  and  Rogers  says  that  Phillips'  evidence  is  invalid  since  he  no  longer  acts  in  an  official  capacity,  therefore  Hathaway  is  in  again  and  Rogers  out.  I  become  as  nifty  at  these  (still  meaningless)  mes-  sages  as  a  blind  girl  at  a  loom.  Dickens  (I  have  begun  to  read  the  books)  tells  me  that  blind  girls  are  nifty  at  looms.  That  is  how  I  know.  I  feel  vaguely  sorry  forthe  three  new  men,  I  don't  (of  course)  know  why.  They  huddle  together,  huddling  together.  Only  Gondzik  has  introduced  himself  to  them  so  far,  and  hasn't  told  me  their  names,  Anyway  I'm  not  at  all  interested.  Until  they  learn  the  rules,  they  are  irrelevant.  One  morning,  after  dark,  I  actually  stumble  on  the  source,  one  of  the  sources,  of  the  rumors,  I  have  come  up  from  breakfast  as  usual,  directly  they  have  finished  ringing  the  bell  (which  tells  us  when  to  finish  breakfast).  But  I  am  astounded  to  find  a  member  of  the  staff  still  in  my  room.  She  is  flicking  a  duster  about  quite  uselessly.  I  hesitate  in  the  doorway.  &quot;Come  in,  dear,&quot;  she  says,  flicking  with  even  more  energy.  Then,  in  exactly  the  same  tone  of  voice,  &quot;''They're  having  him  up  in  front  of  the  Committee,  my  what  a  lot  of  bottles  you  have,  well,  I'll  be  seeing  you,  cheerio  for  now,&quot;  and  she  goes  out,  flicking  the  duster  under  her  arm;  but  at  the  door  she  turns  and  winks  hugely,  screwing  up  the  whole  side  of  her  face.  I  am  thrown  into  a  bit  of  a  fluster.  What  to  do?  I  have  been  entrusted  with  an  original  rumor  (a  great  hon-  or),  but  it  seems  to  leap  about  in  my  hands  like  a  freshly  caught  trout  (Dickens).  Should  I  tell  Gondzik,  or  throw  it  casually  into  the  conversation  at  dinner?  What  do  the  rules  say?  But  silly  me,  there  are  no  rules  about  spreading  rumors  which  concern  the  office.  There  cannot  be  a  rule  to  deal  with  the  possibility  that  theo  fice  itself  is  breaking  the  rules.  I  don't  know  what's  the  matter  with  me.  So  I  take  the  little  book  of  directions  that  Gondzik  has  thoughtfully  provided  me  with,  and  go  to  his  room.  I  knock,  he  calls  &quot;Yes?,&quot;  which  may  or  may  not  mean  permission  to  enter.  I  take  the  risk.  He  is  looking  out  of  his  win-  dow  through  a  pair  of  binoculars.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  he  says,  without  ungluing  his  eyes.  I  sit  down,  avoiding  the  papal  chair  because  it  looks  uncomfortable.  After  a  while  he  puts  the  binoculars  on  the  table,  asking,  &quot;What's  up?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  I'm  very  casual.  &quot;I  thought  you  were  studying.&quot;  &quot;It's  too  hot.&quot;  He  smiles,  ruffling  my  hair.  &quot;Can't  have  you  backsliding,  you  know.  By  the  way,  the  courts  are  pretty  well  finished.  Do  you  play?&quot;  &quot;Play?&quot;,  &quot;'Tennis.&quot;  Now  how  do  I  know  whether  I  play  tennis  or  not?  I  make  a  shot  in  the  dark.  &quot;No.&quot;  &quot;Pity.  Maybe  one  of  the  new  men  plays  tennis.&quot;  Suddenly  he  throws  something  across  the  room,  a  pencil;  it  lands  just  by  my  foot.  I  know  it  is  a  signal.  Bend-  ing  to  pick  it  up,  I  say,  &quot;They're  hav-  ing  him  up  in  front  of  the  Commit-  tee;&quot;  then,  handing  it  to  him,  &quot;Your  pencil.&quot;  &quot;Who  told  you?&quot;  he  murmurs,  staring  out  of  the  window,  &quot;A  housekeeper.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Which  one?&quot;  &quot;The  fat  one  with  the  butterfly  glasses.&quot;  &quot;Mavis.&quot;  He  turns,  comes  over  to  me,  traces  my  jaw  with  his  finger.     &quot;You're  looking  quite  prettytoday.  I  like  that.&quot;  I  have  an  impulse  to  squat  down,  put  my  head  on  one  side,  hold  up  my  paws:  to  be  rewarded.  Impulses  must  be  avoided  at  all  costs.  Wait  for  the  order.  Following  the  directions  again,  I  go  back  to  my  room  to  study,  to  wait.  T  must  be  perfectly  clear  by  now  that,  for  all  my  efforts,  I  am  re-  counting  many  things  which  are  over,  or  which  seem  to  me  to  be  over.  I  feel  quite  safe,  now,  in  saying  that  this  pe-  riod  of  my  stay  seems  to  me  to  have  been  exceptionally  dull.  Imagine  being  without  associations  or  memory,  totally  without  a  sense  of  time.  Imagine  the  banality  of  a  tree  being  no  more  than  a  tree.  Imagine  not  feeling  pain,  let  alone  not  understanding  it.  Imagine  being  without  whims  or  curiosity.  Imagine  being  a  blank  slate,  an  empty  glass.  Looking  back  on  this  stage  (I  have  no  idea  how  long  it  lasted,  and  perhaps  it  was  necessary),  there  seem  to  have  been  few  incidents  of  even  the  slightest  significance.  Mostly  I  learned  names  (like  marmoset),  passed  on  messages,  sat  in  my  rocking  chair,  slept  dream-  lessly  (I  thought),  and  avoided  going  out  except,  occasionally,  in  the  com-  pany  of  Gondzik.  He  seemed  pleased  with  me,  but  no  longer  touched  me.  If  I  saw  him  from  my  window  wan-  dering  across  the  lawn  with  his  arm  round  a  girl,  I  would  merely  think,  There  is  Gondzik  wandering  across  the  lawn  with  his  arm  round  a  girl.  There  were  sometimes  screams  in  the  night,  but  I  simply  told  myself,  &quot;Someone  is  screaming.&quot;  I  waited  to  be  directed  to  the  vegetable  garden  again,  but  no  directions  came.  There  were  storms,  there  was  rain,  the  distant  gar-  dens  shrouded  in  a  mist  of  rain.  The  three  new  men,  Simon,  Dominic,  and  George,  were  established.  Dominic,  be-  ing  almost  blind,  learned  the  ropes  be-  fore  either  of  the  others  and  was  soon  promoted  to  our  company.  As  his  hear-  ing  was  very  acute,  Revlon  sometimes  gave  him  the  job  of  listening  for  signals.  The  listening  seemed  to  put  him  in  a  state  of  trance:  looking  straight  ahead  with  his  blind  eyes,  he  would  recite  messages  in  a  low  monotone,  often  hardly  audible-we  are  having  chicken  for  dinner,  the  Director  has  a  cold,  Hathaway  is  being  blamed  for  everything,  Mrs.  Hathaway  has  attempted  suicide,  Hathaway  has  been  cleared  by  new  evidence  which  proves  that  the  Director  was  in  the  [REDACTED]  on  the  night  in  question,  Milton  is  being  blamed  for  everything,  the  chick-  en  will  be  fried,  Mrs.  Hathaway  is  " b"dead.  Dominic  became  a  kind  of  oracle.  Mavis,  the  housekeeper,  visited  me  frequently.  Insofar  asI  was  capable  of  emotion  during  this  period,  I  became  quite  fond  of  her.  She  was  not  particu-  larly  interested  in  the  office  dramas  (she  cleaned  for  some  very  minor  as-  sistant  to  an  assistant,  who  seemed  to  know  less  than  we  did  about  it  all),  but  she  had  a  rich  fund  of  stories  about  her  husband's  gout,  the  inefficiency  ofthe  supermarket,  her  married  daughter's  obstetrical  troubles,  the  movie  she  saw  last  night.  They  were  to  me,  you  un-  derstand,  fairy  stories.  I  had  a  feeling  they  probably  weren'tallowed  but,  re-  ceiving  no  direction  on  this  point,  con-  tinued  to  listen  to  them  with  a  faint  twinge  of  what  passed  for  guilt.  In  fact  I  looked  forward  to  them,  which  in  it-  self  was  reprehensible.  All  the  time  she  talked,  she  flicked,  knocking  over  bot-  tles,  making  the  pastoral  engraving  al-  ways  more  askew  so  that  before  long  I  would  have  had  to  lie  on  the  floor  to  look  at  it,  if  I  had  wanted  to  look  at  it.  When  conversation  failed  (as  it  often  did  in  those  days),  I  would  tell  Gond-zik  a  few  of  Mavis's  stories  and  he  al-  ways  listened  with  the  greatest  atten-  tion.  It  must  have  been  about  now  that  they  made  the  bold  experiment  (which  was  to  prove  so  significant)  of  getting  the  entertainers  in.  I  suppose  the  money  for  this,  too,  came  from  the  Repair  Fund.  Perhaps  it  was  intended  to  dis-  tract  us  from  our  interest  (it  had  to  leak  out  somehow)  in  the  affairs  of  the  office.  God  knows  that  I,  at  least,  had  nothing  else  to  be  interested  in.  All  that  happened  to  me  was  that  I  sat  in  a  deck  chair,  like  the  others,  and  watched  small  people  dancing  about  at  the  end  of  the  lawn,  in  front  of  the  lily  pond.  Either  they  danced  or  they  strutted  about,  wearing  peculiar  clothes,  or  sometimes  they  stood  still.  As  the  au-  thorities  (so  we  were  told)  had  been  unable  to  afford  microphones  or  loud-  speakers,  all  this  was  dumb  show  and  not  in  the  least  distracting.  I  hadn't  any  idea  what  they  were  talking  or  singing  about,  if  they  were  talking  or  singing,  or  what  their  whimsical  dances  were  meant  to  represent.  The  orchestra  was  slightly  preferable:  thin  sounds  of  music  did,  occasionally,  drift  to  us  from  the  sawing  and  blowing  ants  on  their  little  gilt  chairs.  But  as  the  place  is  (for  some  reason-possibly  an  endowment)  equipped  with  an  excellent  stereo-player  and  a  library  of  records,the  introduc-  tion  of  these  minute  musicians  seemed  a  little  unnecessary.  However,  we  all  at-  tended  the  performances,  and  when  they  appeared  to  be  over  we  clapped  enthusiastically.  It  was  during  one  of  these  con-  certs-Rachmaninoff,  I  think-that  I  saw  the  gardener  again.  Collarless,  in  the  same  striped  shirt,  he  came  out  of  the  trees  behind  the  lily  pond  and  stood  for  a  while,  apparently  listening.  I  registered  this  in  my  usual  way,  with-  out  comment  and  without  any  positive  reaction.  I  knew  that  he  had  assaulted  me,  butnot  the  meaning  of  the  word;  in  the  same  way  thatI  knew  the  way  to  Gondzik's  room,  but  without  his  direc-  tions  wouldn't  have  known  how  to  get  there.  The  gardener  leaned  on  the  low  wall,  cupped  his  hand  into  the  green  lily  water  and  appeared  to  drink,  Then  he  lumbered  back  into  the  trees,  fitting  the  description  of  a  solitary  bear.  I  neither  missed  him  nor  expected  to  see  him  again.  I  don't  think  I  am  concealing  anything  about  this  period.  It  had  a  beginning,  in  Gondzik's  room;  and  owing  to  this  bold  introduction  of  en-  tertainment  it  came  to  an  end,  or  was  at  least  halted.  Perhaps  it  will  come  back,  but  I  hope  not.  I  think  I  would  rather  be  killed  than  die  of  my  own  accord.  Then  at  least  somebody  else  would  be  responsible  for  my  lifeless-  ness;  it  would  be  in  some  way  a  shared  experience.  THERE  had  been  (this  is  still  I  recollection)  many  days  of  rain  and  mist,  the  air,  if  it  could  be  called  air,  swampy  and  fetid.  I  didn't  go  to  the  pool,  though  Gondzik  did,  rain  or  shine.  Most  people  stayed  in-  doors,  sitting  about  in  the  lounges  and  waiting  rooms,  turningover  the  leaves  of  books,  growing  heavier  and  heavier.  Lively  mosquitoes  swarmed  against  the  screens,  hungry  for  blood.  Lamps  were  left  on  in  the  corridors  and  on  the  landings.  The  space  between  breakfast  and  dinner  became  immeasurable.  We  were  really  being  put  through  it.  They  should  have  brought  the  en-  tertainers  indoors,  but  this  was  appar-  ently  not  allowed,  sothe  entertainers  were  given  leave  of  absence  while  the  bad  weather  lasted.  The  deck  chairs  were  stacked  on  the  terrace  below  my  window,  not  reminding  me  of  wet  summers  in  Folkestone  or  Hayling  Is-  land,  Revlon  stated  that  it  was  August,  but  nobody  cared.  He  became  pettish  and  retired  to  his  room,  leaving  Domi-  nic  to  listen  as  best  he  could  to  floors  and  walls,  which  told  him  very  little.  About  the  middle  of  one  of  these  attenuated  days  I  noticed  faint  shad-  ows  on  the  lawn  beneath  the  trees  and  bushes,  The  mist  was  glaring,  the  heat  almost  intolerable.  The  deck  chairs  began  to  steam.  Splinters  of  sunlight  " b"fell  here  and  there  and  at  last  the  sun  itself  cracked  through,  the  damp  stone  sizzled.  After  a  while  people  crept  out  onto  the  terrace,  singly,  in  twos  and  threes,  looking  about  them  as  though  emerged  from  the  hold  of  an  ark.  Gondzik  appeared  in  white  sports  shirt  and  trousers,  the  legs  tapered  as  they  used  to  be  in  the  sixties,  the  top  of  his  head  (seen  by  me)  slightly  bald-  ing.  They  fanned  out  over  the  lawn,  inspecting,  investigating,  Gondzik  a  player  going  out  to  bat,  making  swing-  ing  movements  with  clasped  hands.  Something  moved  in  me,  lurched,  lightened.  I  went  to  my  vast  cupboard  and  was  surprised  to  find  most  of  my  clothes  heaped  in  a  corner,  unfit  to  wear.  I  looked  at  myself  in  my  three  mirrors,  one  after  another.  A  por-  ridge  face  looked  back,  eyes  dead  as  raisins,  mouth  dragged  down,  hair  life-  less.  I  looked  at  my  slumping  body,  grown  into  the  mold  of  the  rocking  chair.  My  arms  seemed  to  be  covered  with  fine  gray  ash;  my  toenails  were  broken,  there  was  stubble  in  my  arm-  pits.  I  knew  I  was  not  a  pretty  sight,  but  as  yet  didn't  draw  any  conclu-  sions.  There  I  (presumably  )  was.  But  I  didn't  want  to  go  down  and  join  the  others,  I  knew  that.  I  rejoined  the  rocking  chair  and  watched  the  lawn.  I  am  as  bad  at  calculating  distance  as  time;  all  I  can  say  is  that  the  lily  pond,  with  its  low  wall  and  suppli-  cating  (it  looks  supplicating)  statue  is  so  far  from  my  window  thatI  have  to  narrow  my  eyes  to  see  it  clearly,  The  lawn  slopes  all  the  way  from  the  house  to  the  lily  pond,  uninterrupted  except  for  a  cluster  of  three  trees.  The  ter-  race  in  front  of  the  house,  therefore,  might  as  well  be  the  back  row  of  an  enormous  stadium:  quite  apart  from  microphones  and  loudspeakers,  one  would  need  binoculars  to  see  the  lily  pond  in  detail.  I  hadn't  questioned  why  I  saw  the  gardener,  during  the  Rach-  maninoff,  so  sharply.  That  day,  as  the  others  were  making  a  kind  of  broken  wave  approaching  the  pond,  Gondzik  in  the  lead,  the  wave  faltered,  scattered,  and  turned  on  it-  self;  it  now  rolled  back  toward  the  terrace,  Gondzik  in  the  rear  looking  (I  registered)  a  little  downcast.  Mi-  nute  people  had  arrived  at  the  pond  carrying  planks  and  poles  and  what  looked  like  prefabricated  wooden  struc-  tures.  They  swarmed  about,  the  sound  of  hammering  so  distant  that  it  might  have  been  a  woodpecker  in  a  tree,  a  soli-  tary  cricket.  They  worked  fast,  men  and  possibly  women  in  blue  jeans,  some  naked  to  the  waist.  Very  soon  the  lily  pond  was  surrounded  and  hiddenby  a  high,  circular  wooden  wall.  It  was  impossible  " b"to  tell  what  was  going  on  behind  it.  The  others  seemed  to  be  excited.  As  they  came  up  the  steps,  some  of  them  looked  backward;  others,  having  reached  the  terrace,  peered  from  be-  _  neath  shading  hands.  A  lot  of  specula-  tion  was  going  on.  Gondzik  moved  here  and  there  in  his  sporty  white,  wearing  dark  glasses.  The  bell  sounded  for  dinner,  and  for  the  first  time  I  wasn't  ready.  I  put  something  on,  brushed  my  hair,  and  found  my  way  to  the  stairs  by  means  of  the  notebook.  I  steadied  myself  on  the  oak  bannister  while  go-  ing  down  the  stairs,  as  it  seemed  I  was  unaccustomed  to  walking.  In  the  din-  ing  room,  I  joined  the  end  of  the  queue,  shuffled  forward  with  no  par-  ticular  prospect  except  that  of  having  something  in  my  mouth,  chewing  and  swallowing.  When  I  saw  the  plate  sparsely  covered  with  meat  and  vege-  tables,  I  sat  down  in  the  nearest  chair  and  ate  until  the  plate  was  clean.  I  realized  from  the  chatter  that  we  were  going  to  have  some  rather  special  en-  tertainment,  a  treat  after  our  long  deprivation.  The  news,  apparently,  had  been  posted  on  the  notice  board.  I  nev-  er  looked  at  the  notice  board,  partly  because  it  was  usually  empty  and  part-  ly  because  even  if  there  were  anything  on  it  the  message  would  not  be  ad-  dressed  to  me  personally;  it  would  merely  be  some  general  announcement  or  possibly  a  new  rule  or  warning.  When  the  bell  sounded,  I  took  my  plate  intothe  kitchen  with  the  others;  then  I  drifted  with  them,  idly  enough,  onto  the  terrace.  The  deck  chairs  were  still  stacked.  The  edifice,  whatever  it  was,  round  the  lily  pond  seemed  to  be  finished,  no  one  to  be  seen,  Gondzik,  passing  hurriedly,  said  &quot;How  are  you,&quot;  but  it  wasn't  a  question.  He  ran  down  the  steps  to  the  lawn  and  we  followed  him.  We  did  not  form  a  wave  this  time  buta  ragged  line.  I  was  carried  along,  I  think,  with  no  intention  or  anticipation,  toward  the  wall.  When  we  got  near  enough  and  were  actually  filing  through  an  opening,  I  saw  that  it  was  made  of  great  sheets  of  plywood  with  numbers  stamped  on  the  back,  held  together  with  wooden  struts  so  new  that  they  were  still  jagged  with  splinters.  NCE  inside,  we  see  that  the  wall  forms  more  of  an  are  thana  cir-  cle,  there  are  rough,  tiered  benches  placed  like  steps  from  the  top  of  the  wall  down  to  the  ground.  There  are  fourteen  aisles  radiating  down  through  the  top  eight  rows  of  benches  to  a  semicircular  wooden  walk  (or  prome-  nade);  below  this  only  six  aisles" b"through  shorter  rows  of  benches  (but  eight  rows  just  the  same),  the  whole  enclosing  the  lily  pond,  over  which  arc lights  sweep  to  and  fro  with  white  beams.  In  the  front  row  of  this  lower  and  smaller  semicircle  is  an  open  box  draped  in  sombre  purple  and  contain-  ing  three  or  four  of  the  pseudo-Jaco-  bean  chairs  from  the  dining  room.  Be-  hind  the  lily  pond  they  have  erecteda  wooden  platform,  backed  and  winged  by  three  walls,  the  side  walls  opening  outward  like  welcoming  arms  toward  the  auditorium  (which  I  now  know,  or  even  possibly  recognize  it  to  be).  I  climb  up  the  steep  steps  of  the  nearest  aisle,  having  to  raise  my  knees  high  as  I  do  so,  and  sit  down  in  an  unosten-  tatious  (hiding)  place  in  the  back  semicircle.  Although  it  is  still  light,  the  arc  lamps  sweep  down  the  tiered  benches  as  though  to  search  someone  out.  There  is  a  murmur  of  voices  sound-  ing  expectant:  close  your  eyes  and  it  might  be  a  crowd  of  twenty  thousand  instead  of  this  meagre  handful.  Young  people  carrying  a  strange  assortment  of  instruments  arrive  and  sit  on  the  grass  between  the  lily  pond  and  the  plat-  form:  I  can  see  bagpipes,  a  violin  and  cello,  an  accordion,  a  drum;  now  a  flute,  and  a  girl  with  a  huge  pair  of  cymbals.  They  blow  and  sawand  pipe  and  clash  with  no  coordination  but  very  quietly,  as  though  under  the  sea,  each  absorbed  in  his  or  her  own  sound.  Now  a  man  carries  a  bed  onto  the  platform,  so  light  it  must  be  made  of  aluminum,  its  mattress  and  bedclothes  at-  tached.  He  places  it  on  the  right-  hand  side  of  the  platform,  goes  away,  comes  back  with  a  similar  bed  which  he  places  about  three  feet  from  the  first  one,  goes  again,  returns  with  another:  three  beds  side  by  side.  In  a  moment  he  comes  back  with  a  chair  and  a  large  carton  of  sorts,  but  there  is  a  commotion  along  the  benches  and  my  attention  is  dis-  tracted.  Two  strangers,  a  man  and  a  woman,  are  entering  the  purple-  shrouded  box.  They  are  both  in  eve-  ning  dress  of  the  formal,  slightly  old-  fashioned  style  worn  by  royalty.  They  bow  (though  no  one  has  applauded)  and  the  man  raises  his  hand  in  a  kind  of  greeting  gesture.  When  they  are  seated,  two  or  three  more  people  slip  in  behind  them  like  shadows.  I  lean  toward  Dominic,  sitting  two  rows  down,  placid  with  his  blind  stare.  &quot;Who  are  they?&quot;  &quot;''The  Director  and  his  wife.&quot;  &quot;My  goodness.&quot;     I  sit  back,  absorbing  the  sight  of  the  Director  and  his  wife.  How  extraordi-  nary  of  them,  in  the  middle  of  their  troubles,  to  be  seen.  Or  perhaps  that's  the  point.  My  wits  are  being  sharpened  like  arrows,  all  sorts  of  unusual  move-  ments  are  stretching  and  exercising  my  muscles.  By  now  the  platform  is  almost  furnished.  As  the  last  touch,  thestage-  hand  carries  in  a  huge  cellophane  win-  dow  with  cornice  and  curtains  attached  and  props  it  against  the  back  wall.  He  nods  curtly  to  the  Director  (a  disbeliever  grumpily  passing  in  front  of  an  altar)  and  goes  away,  leaving  the  stage  set.  The  ill-assorted  orchestra  strikes  up,  all  instrumentalists  together  on  the  beat.  Surprisingly,  it  is  a  pleasant  sound.  I  noticethe  Director  take  spec-  tacles  out  of  his  breast  pocket,  polish  them  on  a  white  handkerchief,  latch  them  behind  his  ears.  The  arc  lamps  go  out,  leaving  the  whole  place  in  twilight  but  for  an  underwater  lamp  cunningly  concealed  in  the  lily  pond  which  lights  and  shadows  the  statue.  The  orchestra  stops  with  a  clash  of  cymbals,  the  plat-  form  is  flooded  with  daylight,  a  large  dog  enters,  bows  gravely  to  the  Direc-  tor,  and  begins  to  act.  The  dog  trots  here  and  there  on  the  stage,  then  exits.  A  woman  comes  on,  wearing  a  blue  robe;  she  moves  across  the  stage  with  decorous  power,  her  calm  face  illuminated  from  within.  Suddenly  she  stops,  alert,  and  turns  to  the  cellophane  window.  Behind  the  window  we  (and  the  woman)  momentarily  see  the  faceofa  devil  or  king,  rakishly  crowned  with  thorns.  I  imagine  this  to  be  a  kind  of  prologue,  as  on  the  terrified  cry  &quot;My  chil-  dren!&quot;  the  face  disappears  and  the  woman  rushes  offstage,  criminally  assaulted  by  fear.  I  am  very  disturbed  by  this  cry,  and  can't  really  concen-  trate  on  the  next  scene,  which  concerns  the  dog,  the  woman,  a  clown,  two  male  actors,  and  a  chorus  dressed  in  practice  tights  and  leotards  so  old  that  they  seem  to  have  been  chewed  by  rats.  The  chorus  is  telling  us  that  danger  lurks  behind  the  window  (which  we  know)  and  that  the  woman's  great  fear  is  justified.  The  dog  howls  dreadfully.  The  clown  takes  no  notice  but  struts  about  in  pompous  attitudes,  making  the  audience  laugh.  How  can  they  laugh,  with  that  terror  about  to  reveal  itself  any  moment'  &quot;My  children!  My  children'!&quot;  The  clown  drags  the  dog  away,  the  two  male  actors  get  into  separate  beds,  the  chorus  walks  lithely  off  on  the  balls  of  its  feet.  The  woman  is  left  wringing  " b"her  hands,  but  putting  a  brave  face  on  it.  Firsr  Marr  Actor:  Is  anything  there?  Woman:  All  quite  quiet  and  still.  Oh,  how  I  wish  I  was  not  going  out  to  dinner  tonight.  SEconp  Mare  Actor:  Can  any-  thing  harm  us,  Mother,  afterthe  night-  lights  are  lit?  Woman:  Nothing,  precious.  They  are  the  eyes  a  mother  leaves  behind  her  to  guard  her  children.  On  this,  the  lights  slowly  fade.  It  is  not  yet  dark  enough  in  the  auditorium,  however,  for  me  not  to  notice  figures  scurrying  about.  Suddenly  the  cymbals  crash,  making  me  jump  off  the  bench  with  terror:  spot-lit,  the  demon  king  stands  in  an  arrogant  attitude,  his  thorn  crown  askewon  long  black  hair,  his  narrow  body  gleaming,  hairless  and  slender  as  a  girl,  thighs  clenched  with  power.  He  is,  I  suppose,  some  age  of  child  or  possibly  adolescent.  After  lin-  gering  in  his  spot-lit  glory  for  perhaps  one  second  too  long,  he  carries  on  with  the  play.  The  third  bed,  we  now  see,  is  occu-  pied.  The  woman  of  the  first  scene,  who  by  rights  should  be  out  to  dinner,  makes  a  great  to-do  of  sitting  up,  stretching,  yawning,  and  so  on.  She  merely  smiles  when  the  King  asks  her  this  rather  senseless  question  :  Kimo:  Woman,  what  have  I  to  do  with  you?  Woman:  More  than  you  think.  Smiling,  she  holds  out  her  arms  to  him.  Smiling,  the  King  steps  back.  Smiling,  she  gets  out  of  bed,  ruthlessly  pursuing  him  with  outstretched  arms.  Kino:  Noli  me  tangere.  Woman:  Why  not?  Kino:  Because  you  are  my  mother,  Woman  (smiling):  Absolute  rub-  bish.  (Zside)  Nay,  what  should  mortal  fear,  for  whom  the  decrees  of  Fortune  are  supreme,  and  who  hath  clear  fore-  &quot;sight  of  nothing?  'Tis  best  to  live  at  random,  as  one  may.  (Maternally,  to  King)  But  fear  not  thou  touching  wed-  lock  with  thy  mother.  Many  men  ere  .  now  have  so  fared  in  dreams  also:  but  '  he  to  whom  these  things  are  of  naught  -  bears  his  life  most  easily.  Kino:  Is  that  right?  Really?  Woman:  Of  course.  And  of  course  the  woman  is  lying.  The  King  turns  his  back  on  her.  Kinc:  Come  with  me.  Woman:  Oh  dear,  I  mustn't.  Think  of  the  children.  Besides,  I  can't  fly.  Kimo:  But  you  are  an  angel.  Woman:  Naturally.  I  am  distracted  from  the  dialogue  between  the  King  and  the  woman  " b"(which  was  interesting  enough)  by  the  cranking  and  clattering  of  some  huge  machine,  a  kind  of  crane  or  derrick,  that  puts  its  head  over  the  back  wall  like  an  inquisitive  dinosaur,  nosing  back  and  forth.  At  the  same  time  a  tall,  rather  stout  man  wearing  a  barrister's  wig  and  gown  clambers  with  difficulty  (because,  as  we  soon  realize,  he  is  blind)  onto  the  platform.  He  looks  vaguely  familiar  to  me,  and  as  he  turns  his  sightless  stare  upon  the  auditorium  I  cringe  back  on  my  bench,  not  wish-  ing  to  be  recognized.  Stately,  he  turns  and  confronts  the  King,  who  seems  to  have  finished  nagging  and  being  nagged  by  the  woman  for  the  moment.  BarrIsTrER:  You  are  a  blind  man,  Your  Majesty,  who  now  has  sight?  King:  Never.  BarRIsTER:  Then  might  I  put  to  you  that  you  are  a  beggar  who  is  now  rich?  Kinc:  No.  BarristER:  You  will  make  your  way  to  a  strange  land,then,  feeling  be- fore  you  with  your  staff.  Kindly  think  about  the  question  and  don't  answer  off  the  top  of  your  head.  The  King  crows  like  a  cock,  an  ex-  cellent  imitation.  BarrITER:  Would  you  mind  re-  peating  that,  sir?  Kimo:  I  want  always  to  be  a  little  boy  and  to  have  fun.  BarristER:  The  future  will  come  of  itself,  though  I  shroud  it  in  silence.  Kino:  Shroud  it,  then.  (He  is  dev-  astated  with  his  own  wit.)  BarrIsTER:  You  are  found  at  once  brother  and  father  of  the  children  with  whom  you  consort-am  I  right?  Son and  husband  of  the  woman  who  bore  you-am  I  right?  Heir  to  your  fa-ther's  bed  and  shedder  of  your  father's  blood-correct? Kina:  No  one  is  going  to  catch  me,  lady,  and  make  me  a  man.  I  will  never  go  near  my  parents!  Who  is  this  old  fellow,  anyway?  Get  him  to  a  cloister!  Members  of  the  chorus  run  forward  with  supple  joints,  lift  the  old  barrister  bodily  and  carry  him  shoulder-high  off  the  stage,  waving  his  brief  like  a  flag  of  surrender.  In  the  general  hubbub  the  two  male  actors  have  slipped  out  of  bed  and  joined  the  woman  underneath  the  great  machine,  which  has  cables  dangling  from  its  mouth.  It  is  only  later,  with  a  lurch  of  the  stomach  such  as  one  feels  when  watching  trapeze  artists,  that  I  realize  the  actors  have  in  some  way  attached  themselves  to  these  cables.  Kimo:  Bring  your  brats  with  you,  if  you  must.  (The  male  actors  cringe  slightly.)  I'll  teach  you  how  to  jump  on  the  wind's  back  and  then  away  we                                                                      " b"go.  Mother,  when  you  are  sleeping  in  your  silly  bed  you  might  be  flying  about  with  me,  saying  funny  things  to  the  stars.  The  woman  is  obviously  infatuated.  Woman:  My  darling  boy.  Kim:  And  you  can  tell  me  stories  about  naughty  children  who  have  to  be  spanked  when  they  do  wrong.  Woman  :  I  will,  I  will.  The  King  has  cunningly  fastened  himself  to  the  remaining  cable.  The  window,  by  some  theatrical  trickery,  has  openedwide  on  the  real  night,  punctured  with  stars.  The  King  calls  commandingly,  &quot;Now  come!&quot;  and,  a  little  less  light  than  thistle-  down,  he,  the  woman,  and  the  two  male  actors  are  hauled  into  the  air  and  swung  out  into  the  woods  beyond,  the  machine  creaking  dreadfully.  A  dog  howls,  and  the  howl  is  taken  up  by  thebagpipes.  The  win-  dow  gapes.  Somewhat  flustered,  but  nevertheless  convincing,  the  woman  reappears,  wringing  her  hands  and  calling  &quot;My  children!  My  children'!&quot;  But,  as  we  all  know,  they  have  left  her,  perhaps  never  to  return.  HEN  the  lights  go  up  I  am  weeping  terribly  and,  asI  realize  in  a  few  moments,  with  some  noise.  I  stuff  something,  possibly  the  skirt  of  my  dress,  into  my  mouth,  cramming  the  grief  inside.  Through  my  stream-  ing  eyes  I  see  the  Director  chatting  to  his  wife.  He  glances  round,  sees  me,  leans  backward  to  say  a  few  words  to  one  of  his  aides.  The  aide  nods,  taking  my  number.  I  am  so  alone.  Gondzik  hurries  along  the  diazoma,  presumably  on  his  way  to  the  bar.  They  have  even  thought  of  a  bar.  I  am  cruelly  pre-  sented  with  everything  I  ever  knew  about  Gondzik  from  long  before  those  distant  days  when  we  walked  round  the  lake  and  he  saw  the  skater.  I  feel,  as  someone  who  is  touched  by  a  ghost,  his  tenderness  and  passion,  He  used  to  come  whenever  I  asked  for  help,  or  demanded  it.  Why  does  he  hurry  now,  beard  curving  and  pointing  upward,  pretending  he  has  no  time?  After  my  period  of  numbness  I  am  desperately  vulnerable.  Every  reaction,  every  re-  sponse  and  secretion  and  blocked  feel-  ing  is  working  to  make  up  for  lost  time.  Time  lost,  time  wasted?  'The  Direc-  tor's  aide's  wife  is  looking  at  me  in  the  mirror  of  her  powder  compact  while  she  pretends  to  jab  at  her  nose.  She  says  something  out  of  the  corner  of  her  mouth  to  the  aide,  who  leans  forward  and  murmurs  in  the  Director's  ear.  The  Director  nods.  The  lights  dim  again  in  mosquito-infested  darkness:  they  dance  demented  in  the  stream  of  ele  ZD  the  spotlight  and  I  wonder  whether  I  can  slip  away,  but  know  itis  impos-  sible.  Where  would  I  go?  Besides,  the  play  has  started  again.  The  chorus  appears  and  intones  some  prophecy  of  woe:  as  far  as  I  can  gather,  the  woman  will  die  hor-  ribly  because  she  is  going  to  live  with  her  children;  the  King  will  plead  ig-  norance  of  the  whole  affair  and  go  off  to  dally  with  (my  heart  jumps)  Red  Indians;  there  will  be  bloodshed  and  pain.  Sure  enough,  when  the  chorus  pirouettes  away,  the  woman  is  lying  apparently  lifeless,  an  arrow  in  her  navel.  She  is  naked,  one  knee  drawn  up,  arms  flung  about  her  head.  A  group  of  male  actors  (including  the  original  two)  stand  round  her  in  triumphant  attitudes,  They  slap  each  other  on  the  back,  rock  with  soundless  laughter,  zipping  up  their  flies  and  rearranging  their  shirts,  One  of  them  stubs  out  his  cigar  on  the  woman's  thigh,  another  kicks  her  with  his  shiny  boot.  It  is  very  unpleasant,  for  as  far  as  I  can  see  she  has  done  themno  harm.  The  King  appears,  with  the  usual  accompaniment  of  cymbals  and  a  cowering  squaw.  He  is  disgusted  with  the  whole  scene  (as  I  am)  and  commands  a  shrine  to  be  built.  The  actors  obediently  run  about  with  shrine-building  materials  and  fi-  nallyinter  the  woman.  But  no  sooner  have  they  done  so  than  lo,  she  rises  immaculate  from  the  shrine,  clothed  once  more  in  the  blue  robe,  a  light  shining  behind  her  graceful  head.  Woman:  Where  am  I?  Marr  Actor:  Goddess,  for  you  we  built  this  shrine.  Woman:  Thank  you  so  much.  Mare  Actor:  And  we  are  your  children.  OmnEs  (Aneeling  with  outstretched  arms):  Goddess,  be  our  mother!  Woman:  Ought  I'  You  see  I'm  only  a  little  girl.  I  have  no  real  ex-  perience.  OmnEs:  Age  cannot  wither  you  nor  custom  stale  your  infinite  variety.  Woman  :  It's  true  I  can  cook.  Kimo:  That'll  do  for  the  time  being.  Exalted,  the  woman  holds  out  her  arms.  All  the  male  actors  (except  the  King)  move  into  her  arms,  lay  their  heads  on  her  breast  so  that  she  is  prac-  tically  submerged.  The  King  (who  cannot,  because  of  some  ancient  curse,  be  touched)  sulks  briefly,  then  exits  with  Minnehaha.  The  woman,  invisible  now  beneath  the  nuzzling  actors,  calls  &quot;Father!&quot;  The  cry  is  taken  up  on  tape,  relayed  round  the  auditorium:  &quot;Fa-  ther!  Father!&quot;  in  an  ever-increasing  volume  of  anguish.  At  last  it  is  stifled,  the  stage  blacks  out  to  the  accompani-  " b"ment  of  sucking  noises,  all  the  actors  having  lollipops  hidden  in  their  sleeves.  During  the  intermission,  pretending  to  be  calm,  I  am  impatient  for  the  re-  appearance  of  the  King.  I  have  fallen  in  love  with  him,  of  course:  his  grace,  his  strength,  his  arrogance,  his  invul-  nerability,  his  maddening  conceit.  What  a  man  he  is,  this  manless  won-  der.  At  the  same  time  my  arms,  too,  long  to  be  filled.  My  arms  cry  out  down  to  the  palms  of  my  hands.  This  time  the  Director  turns  right  round  in  his  seat  to  stare  at  me.  The  aide  is  ask-  ing  whether  I  should  be  thrown  out  or  requested  to  leave.  The  Director  shakes  his  head,  settling  back  on  his  chair.  His  wife  seems  to  have  no  opinions  at  all;  she  has  folded  her  program  into  a  fan  and  is  fanning  herself  fussily.  I  simply  cannotdo  the  right  thing;  even  if  I  knew  what  the  right  thing  was,  I  couldn't  do  it.  Those  who  cannot  con-  form  are  condemned  to  be  ostracized.  I  positively  do  not  know  how  to  be  a  member  of  the  audience,  and  since  I  don't  know  how  to  act  (the  mere  thought  of  it  terrifies  me)  there  is  really  no  place  for  me  anywhere.  Oh  God,  it's  all  a  hopeless  misunderstand-  ing,  but  we  must  go  through  with  it, the  exits  are  blocked  and  there's  no  alternative.  So  imagine  my  disappointment  when  the  clown  appears,  pretending  to  be  a  dog,  scurrying  round  the  stage  on  all  fours,  lifting  his  leg  against  the  furni-  ture,  while  the  onlookers  whoop  with  relief  and  hilarity.  Mine,  I  know,  is  the  only  straight  face  in  the  house.  I  try  to  lift  its  contours,  even  if  I  can't  smile.  Gondzik's  roars  deafen  me.  Is  it  pos-  sible  I  don't  get  the  point?  Even  Dom-  inic  is  grinning.  Is  it  so  funny  to  be  a  dog,  to  be  a  man  pretending  to  be  a  dog?  It  seems  to  me  infinitely  sad.  With  a  final  &quot;Woof,  woof,&quot;  the  idiot  goes  off  and  we  see  the  woman  sitting  in  a  chair  in  a  forlorn  attitude.  This  is  more  like  it.  &quot;You  have  suffered  too  severely,&quot;  Gondzik  says  again  and  again,  &quot;and  will  interfere  with  my  mirth.&quot;  But  my  mirth  is  frequently  let  loose,  and  I  hope  it  doesn't  contain  cruelty.  I  can  laugh,  ha-ha,  at  the  simplest  of  jokes.  Derision,  however,  is  something  I  do  with  a  poker  face  and  a  whipping  tongue,  very  far  from  com-  edy.  I  prefer  to  make  other  people  laugh  than  to  laugh  myself:  in  that  way  I  use  ridicule  but  am  not  expected  myself  to  find  it  humorous.  Anyway,  the  woman  is  sitting  in  a  forlorn  attitude  which-  unlike  the  hu-  man  dog-I  recognize.  The  window  is  back  in  place  (open),  so  it  is  obvious  that  she  is  mourning  her  fyaway  chil-  " b"dren.  In  fact  they  come  running  through  the  door,  as  the  machine  is  be-  ing  reserved  for  another  purpose.  The  woman  jumps  up  with  a  cry  of  de-  light-but  where  is  the  King?  Sudden-  ly  he  appears,  enthroned  in  a  kind  of  open  cabin  on  top  of  the  crane.  He  raises  his  face  to  the  spotlight,  my  dar-  ling,  and  with  absolute  horror  I  see  that  his  eyes  are  gouged  out,  his  face  a  mess  of  blood,  iris  and  pupil.  The  wom-  an  shrieks  and  runs  toward  the  win-  dow,  possibly  to  throw  herself  out.  The  King's  voice  cracks  as  he  speaks,  de-  scending  momentarily  into  a  deep  bass.  Kinc:  They  make  me  do  this,  for  some  reason,  I've  never  been  touched,  so  I  don't  know  why.  However,  it's  only  makeup.  He  wipes  his  face  with  a  paper  tow-  el,  which  he  then  throws  carelessly  into  the  wings.  He  stands  up  in  the  cabin  (swaying  dangerously)  and  is  gold  all  over,  a  Midas  who  has  touched  himself,  his  long  gold  hair  streaming  from  the  fillet  of  golden  thorns.  Woman  (aghast):  You  are  leaving  me!  Kinc:  Naturally,  It  would  be  un-  natural  to  stay.  Mare  Actors:  But  we  are  staying!  Kinc:  That's  none  of  my  business.  I  am  a  golden  boy,  as  you  can  see.  It's  inconvenient  in  some  ways,  but  there  it  is,  we  must  cut  the  umbilical  cord  and  untie  the  Gordian  knot.  Away,  away,  on  the  back  of  the  wind!  The  machine  makes  aconvulsive  movement  and  he  almost  loses  his  balance.  The  woman  calls  up  to  him  with  beseeching  hands.  Woman:  What  time  will  you  be  back?  Kinc:  I  don't  know.  Around  one  or  seven.  Woman:  I'll  have  something  ready  for  you,  I'll  have  something  ready.  ...  King  (being  carried  away):  Don't  bother.  Woman:  I'll  kill  the  golden  calf!  Kinc:  I'll  probably  grab  a  sand-  wich.  ...  As  he  is  swung  out  of  sight,  an  aw-  ful  cockerow  resounds  through  the  theatre.  The  lights  dim.  The  woman  stands  very  still,  empty-handed,  The  male  actors  silently  disperse,  to  be  re-  placed  by  the  chorus.  Apparently  the  chorus  has  made  a  mistake  or  forgot-  ten  its  lines;  anyway,  after  brief  and  inaudible  muttering  it  goes  away.  The  woman  stands  very  still,  empty-hand-  ed.  The  woman  stands  very  still,  emp-  ty-handed.  MRS.  APRIL  and  a  male  colleague  come  for  me  as  I  am  caught  up  in  the  jostle  ofthe  escaping  crowd:  just  a  hand  under  my  elbow,  a  voice  in  my  ear.  &quot;Not  for  long,&quot;  they  say.  &quot;But  is  it  a  punishment?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not.  Just  a  change  of  scene.&quot;  &quot;And  will  I  be  able  to  go  back  to  my  room  soon?&quot;  &quot;Of  course.  Very  soon.&quot;  &quot;Will  you  tell  Gondzik,  Basil  Gondzik?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  we'll  tell  him.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  far?&quot;  &quot;Not  far  at  all.&quot;  &quot;Will  there  be  other  people?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  there  will.&quot;  So,  held  firmly  by  the  elbows,  I  skim  across  the  dark  grass  while  the  others  are  climbing  the  steps  to  the  terrace  outside  the  lighted  house.  I  fan-  cy  I  can  see  a  light  in  my  windows.  Just  before  we  enter  the  trees  I  twist  my  head  round  and  look  toward  the  theatre.  They  are  already  pulling  it  down,  attacking  recalcitrant  rivets  and  bolts  with  hatchets.  PART  TWO  VII  HEN  it  is  light  again  I  look   aroundme,  raising  myself  on  my  elbows  to  see  where  I  am:  in  a  large  bed  in  a  large  room.  The  other  side  of  the  bed  is  still  warm  (but  I  didn't  dream,  that  I  can  remember).  A  cupboard  gapes  open,  showing  piles  of  shoes  and  clothes  hanging  anyhow.  Every  chair  is  hidden  under  accumu-  lated  clothes.  On  top  of  the  chest  of  drawers  (dull  with  dust)  a  drift  of  old  letters  curling  at  the  edges,  used  enve-  lopes,  yellowing  newspapers.  I  can  see  myself  (though  dimly,  behind  a  mist  of  dust)  in  the  dressing-table  mirrors,  which  are  triple.  The  dressing  table  is  cluttered  with  unstoppered  bottles,  top-  less  jars:  when  I  examine  it  more  close-  ly  I  will  find  rubber  bands,  safety  pins,  bobby  pins,  stained  pieces  of  cotton  wool,  grimy  tissues,  empty  tins  of  hair  spray,  bottles  of  nail  varnish  set  solid  with  age,  twenty  miniature  brushes  caked  with  mascara,  half  a  dozen  pen-  cils,  ahairbrush  solid  with  dirty  hairs,  two  combs  with  missing  teeth.  Thank  God  I  haven't  yet  examined  it.  I  am  looking  at  the  window:  half  the  cur-  tain  hooks  are  missing,  so  that  the  grubby  curtains  hang  in  dolorous  loops;  one  of  the  sash  cords  is  broken.  Why  have  they  brought  me  to  this  terrible  slum?  I  suppose  I  must  try  to  clean  it  up.  I  swing  energetically  out  of  bed  and  look  for  something  to  put  on.  A  gray  towelling  dressing  gown  has  been  thrown  on  the  floor.  I  put  it  on  with  some  distaste,  findinga  used,  dried-up  sanitary  napkin  in  the  pocket.  What  " b"kind  of  people  live  in  this  place,  for  God's  sake?  The  door  once  had  a  bolt,  which  has  been  ripped  off.  There  is  also  a  jagged  hole  in  the  bottom  panel.  Some-  body  kicked  and  kicked  the  door,  I  realize,  when  it  was  bolted,  breaking  both  the  bolt  and  the  door.  Maybe  it's  a  lunatic  asylum,  but  do  I  deserve  this  merely  by  weeping  at  a  play?  I  creep  out  onto  alanding,  which  is  thick  with  the  ammoniac  smell  of  old  urine.  Through  an  open  door  I  see  children  spread-eagled  and  curled  in  beds  and  cots,  soaking  in  the  warmth  of  saturat-  ed  sheets,  The  chaos  is  indescribable;  I  can't  encompass  it;  I  don't  under-  stand  how  so  many  useless  objects,  so  much  dead  matter,  can  accumulate  in  one  place.  I  creep  down  the  stairs  on  bare  feet,  tripping  over  a  loose  stair  rod.  Seeing  the  front  door,  I  think  of  escape;  but,  as  always,  cannot  believe  in  an  al-  ternative.  Also  I  know  that  for  reasons  of  their  own  (mine  not  to  reason  why  )  they  have  set  me  a  herculean  task:  I  am  to  make  order,  find  a  place  for  every-  thing  and  put  everything  in  its  place.  The  thought  exhilarates  and  terrifies  me.  Perhaps  they  think  I  am  the  only  one  who  can  do  it.  I  will  make  a  detailed  list  and  work  my  way  through  it  item  by  item,  slow  and  steady,  not  overtiring  myself,  taking  care  to  eat  properly  and  sleep  well,  but  laboring  quietly  on  until  the  job  is  finished.  First,  how-  ever,  I  will  look  at  the  basement.  I  haven't  bothered  with  the  kitchen  or  the  sitting  room,  knowing  by  now  what  I  shallfind.  But  I  am  unprepared  forthe  basement.  To  begin  with,  itis  dark.  I  stumble  against  what  seem  to  be  dozens  of  wheels,  setting  them  spinning.  When  at  last  I  find  the  light  switch,  I  see  a  tangle  of  bicycles,  some  without  handlebars,  nearly  all  without  chains,  a  funeral  pile  of  dead  bicycles;  also  a  couple  of  broken  strollers  and  an  old  pram  full  of  rubbish.  I  realize  that I  have  no  idea  how  to  get  rid  of  such  things,  the  trashman  won't  take  them.  I  open  a  door  and  a  hundred,  two  hundred  shoes  fall  down  on  me:  laced  shoes,  strapped  shoes,  sandals,  slippers,  dancing  pumps  with  elastic  to  go  round  the  ankle,  muddy  shoes,  new  shoes,  [REDACTED]  boots,  football  boots,  sneak-  ers.  I  gather  up  an  armful  and  try  to  cram  them  back  and  shut  the  door,  but  now  the  landslide  has  been  set  in  mo-tion  it  is  impossible,  so  I  leave  them,  making  a  mental  note  to  put  the  or-  ganization  and  arrangement  of  shoes  high  on  my  list.  The  next  room,  which  leads  out  to  a  bedraggled  garden,  must  be  a  nurs-  ery  or  playroom,  the  cupboard  doors  haven't  been  shut  for  years,  the  floor  " b"is  ankle-deep  in  broken  toys  and  ripped  paper.  I  am  past  surprise,  but  not  past  caring.  Passages  crammed  with  litter  lead  off  the  main  corridor,  but  I'm  not  going  to  investigate  them  yet  or  I  may  get  confused  and  hopeless.  I  try  a  last  door  and  find  it  locked,  either  locked  or  boarded  up.  I've  seen  enough,  anyway,  and  climb  back  to  the  ground  floor.  Some  unwashed,  dishevelled  children  (I  haven't  washed,  or  brushed  my  hair,  either)  are  waiting  for  break-  fast.  I  find  half  a  dozen  packets  of  cereal,  with  maybe  a  cupful  of  cereal  in  each;  a  bowl  of  hardened  sugar;  four  saucers  of  butter,  melted  and  set  again.  Somehow  they  get  their  breakfast.  The  fridge  will  have  to  be  defrosted,  the  cupboards  cleared  out,  the  stove  scoured,  the  dishes  washed  up,  the  floor  scrubbed.  &quot;I  can't  find  my  tennis  racket  and  if  I  go  without  it  they  will  send  me  home,  so  where  is  my  tennis  racket?&quot;  &quot;My  jumper  isn't  marked  and  they  say  if  I  go  once  more  with  an  un-  marked  jumper  they  will  send  me  home,  so  will  you  mark  it?&quot;  &quot;I  have  lost  my  gym  shoes.&quot;  &quot;I  have  lost  my  French  grammar.&quot;  &quot;You  stole  my  pen.&quot;  &quot;I  did  not  steal  your  pen.&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  got  any  socks,  someone's  taken  my  socks.&quot;  &quot;I  feel  sick.&quot;  &quot;I  need  aloop  on  my  swimming  towel  to  hang  it  up  with.&quot;  &quot;Ihave  lost  my  library  book,  will  you  write  a  note?&quot;  The  racket,  the  jumper,  the  gym  shoes,  the  grammar,  the  pen,  the  socks,  the  loop,  the  library  book,  the  note:  when  they  leave  the  kitchen  (and  pre-  sumably  the  house),  they  are  more  or  less  equipped.  It  isn't  good  enough.  They  should  be  completely  equipped.  The  house  is  silent.  I  wait  in  some  fear  for  somebody  else  to  arrive.  A  baby  begins  to  cry,  so  I  go  upstairs  to  see  to  it.  In  fact  the  baby  is  relatively  reward-  ing.  I  feed  it,  and  it  is  fed.  I  wash  it,  and  it  is  clean.I  show  it  affection,  it  is  contented.  I  am  sorry  to  leave  it,  clean  and  tidy,  in  its  pram  (making  sure  to  put  the  brake  on,  adjust  the  awning  against  the  sun).  It  lies  with  the  soles  of  its  feet  together,  apparently  meditating,  its  diaper  beautifully  white.  Most  satisfactory,  when  I  think  of  the  enormous  task  waiting  for  me  indoors.  Unlike  the  other  place,  every  room  in  this  house  has  a  clock,  though  none  of  them  tell  the  same  time.  There  are  also  dozens  of  broken  watches  lying  where  they  have  been  dropped.  The  first  thing  is  to  decide  (or  choose) " b"what  time  it  is,  and  then  synchronize  all  the  clocks.  I  pick  on  the  kitchen  clock,  which  tells  the  latest  time:  twenty-one  minutes  past  nine.  Then  I  realize  that  if  I  go  from  room  to  room  setting  all  the  clocks  at  twenty-one  minutes  past  nine,  it  will  be  at  least  a  quarter  to  ten  by  the  time  I've  finished.  Ican't  take  the  kitchen  clock  with  me,  as  it  is  fixed  to  the  wall,  so  I  have  to  make  a  different  plan.  I  take  the  trav-  elling  clock  from  the  bedroom  (which  says  four  minutes  past  nine)  and  ad-  just  the  others  to  that.  When  I  have  finished  (it  was  quite  a  business  alter-  ing  the  kitchen  clock,  standing  on  a  chair  and  moving  the  hands  forward  eleven  hours  and  forty-three  minutes,  a  whir  and  a  strike  on  every  hour,  since  I  know  it's  not  right  to  move  them  backward),  I  realize  that  of  course  all  I  had  to  do  was  to  set  the  travelling  clock  at  twenty-one  minutes  past  nine  and  proceed  from  there.  Trust  me  to  do  it  the  hard  way.  But  at  least  one  learns.  Before  I  can  have  a  bath,  I  have  to  scrub  the  rims  of  dirt  and  grease  away,  all  at  different  levels,  and  combine  the  bits  of  different-colored  soap  into  one  multicolored  tablet.  The  washcloths  are  gray  and  slimy.  I  daren't  throw  them  away,  because  I  don't  know  how  much  money  I  have  to  buy  new  ones,  and  in  any  case  where  would  I  buy  them?  I  decide  to  boil  them  sometime,  when  I  have  time,  when  time  permits.  When  I  have  put  the  plastic  ducks  and  boats  and  deep-sea  divers  and  submarines  into  a  plastic  bag,  I  feel  a  real  sense  of  achievement.  Already  the  idea  of  a  bath  has  become  a  possibility.  I  rinse  a  handful  of  toothbrushes,  each  one  with  paste  coated  on  the  handle  and  the  bristles.  I  place  them,  heads  up,  in  a  tumbler  (having  washed  the  tumbler  first).  I  have  never  felt  so  fired  with  creativity.  This  is  better,  so  far,  than  sitting  in  my  rocking  chair,  better  than  journeys  and  dreams.  I  lower  myself  into  the  hot  water  and  float.  The  list  (only  in  my  mind  as  yet)  becomes  in-  terminable,  enough  to  occupy  a  life-  time.  Meanwhile  the  baby  sleeps,  the  chaos  remains  untouched  except  for  the  bath,  the  soap,  the  toothbrushes,  the  intention  ofboiling  the  washcloths.  Bathed,  dressed  in  a  shirt  and  the  one  pair  of  jeans  I  can  find  that  isn't  caked  with  egg  or  pastry  or  blood,  I  confront  the  problem.  But  it  refuses  to  be  confronted.  Where,  after  all,  do  I  begin?  If  I  start  with  the  shoes-a  day's  work  at  least-the  kitchen  will  become  uninhabitable.  If  I  start  with  the  kitchen,  the  mattresses  will  never  get  aired,  the  laundry  will  never  get  done,  If  I  do  the  laundry,  when  shall  " b"I  decide  what  they  are  going  to  eat?  But  then  again,  how  can  I  cook  with  all  that  washing  up  waiting  to  be  done?  One  thing  is  certain:  I  can't  spend  an-  other  night  in  this  bedroom  in  the  state  it's  in.  I  am  temporarily  baffled,  and  sit  on  the  bed  waiting  for  inspiration.  The  list.  Of  course  I  can't  begin  without  the  list.  I  will  pin  it  up  some-  where,  and  refer  to  it  constantly,  cross-  ing  out  each  task  as  itis  accomplished.  The  thing  to  do  is  to  find  a  pad  of  pa-  per  and  a  ball-point  pen,  then  go  from  room  to  room,  sensibly  writing  down  what  has  to  be  done.  If  only  I  had  some  help.  God  knows  where  my  ||  mother  has  got  to.  She  would  have  it  done  in  a  jiffy.  It  really  is  too  bad  of  them  to  put  me  here  without  my  mother.  And  too  bad  of  my  mother  to  allow  it.  Perhaps  I  could  contact  her  by  writ-  ing  a  letter  (too  slow)  or  by  telephon-  ing:  Rescue  me,  help  me,  what  shall  I  do?  Please  take  me  away,  take  me  over,  you  see  I'm  only  a  little  girl,  I  have  no  real  experience.  Would  she  fall  for  that?  She  always  has;yet  some-  how  I  have  an  awful  fear  that  this  time  she's  not  going  to.  Either  my  mother  has  disassociated  herself  from  this  plot  or  enterprise  or  whatever  it  is,  or  she  has  been  cut  off.  I  have  to  do  all  this  by  myself,  without  help  from  man  or  mother.  It  may  take  years.  I  ought  |:  to  begin.  (And  yet  why  bother?  What's  the  difference?  Consider  the  lilies  of  the  field,  how  they  grow.  It'll  come  to  the  same  thing  in  the  end,  tidy  or  untidy,  clean  or  dirty.  They  will  grow  some-  how,  even  if  they  have  to  take  devious  routes  to  do  it.  Whether  I  become  old  or  not,  I  will  inevitably  die.  Simply  leave  the  house  as  it  is  and  move  to  an-  other.  Start  again  with  no  possessions,  a  blank  slate,  an  empty  glass.  I'm  too  tired  already,  I'm  much  too  tired.)  Enough  of  that.  Find  the  pad  of  pa-  per  and  the  ball-point  pen,  that  should  be  easy.  Let's  have  a  bit  of  bustle.  I  begin  to  tidy  the  dressing  table,  though  the  washing  up  nags  at  my  conscience.  After  a  while  I  find  myself  wander-  ing  about  with  a  handful  of  five  but-  tons,  a  number  of  paper  clips,  two  col-  lar  studs,  one  cleaner's  ticket,  three  postage  stamps,  and  a  few  foreign  coins  (centimes  and  lire).  I  don't  know  where  to  put  the  handful.  If  I  distribute  each  object  in  its  proper  place  (wherever  that  may  be),  it  will  take  all  morning  up  and  down  the  stairs.  I'm  tempted  to  throw  the  lot  away,  but  that  would  be  shocking:  buttons  cost  money,  stamps  are  valuable,  may-  be  someone  will  be  going  to  [REDACTED]  or  4974616c79  soon  and  will  be  glad  of  some " b"small  change.  At  last  I  compromise  by  tipping  it  all  into  an  empty  jar,  which  I  place  on  the  mantelpiece.  This  jar  now  has  a  purpose  and  can  be  cata-  logued  as  Odds  &amp;  Ends,  jar  of.  I  realize  now  that  I  haven't  had  anything  to  eat  since  last  night's  din-  ner,  which  I  hardly  remember.  Also  the  baby  is  crying.  I  brutally  decide  to  eat  something  before  attending  to  the  baby,  but  it  is  impossible,  the  creature  is  becoming  frenzied.  I  take  it  quite  roughly  out  of  its  pram,  carry  it  up-  stairs,  change  it  (throwing  the  dirty  diaper  into  a  corner  of  the  bathroom),  feed  it,  take  it  downstairs  again,  dump  it  in  the  pram.  It  is  immediately  sick,  staring  at  me  with  accusing  eyes.  I  mop  it  up  with  a  corner  of  the  sheet,  which  I  then  tuck  quickly  under  the  mattress  again.  'The  baby  has  been  mishandled  and  resumes  its  crying,  though  in  a  different  key.  I  go  up-  stairs  and  sit  down  in  the  kitchen, blocking  my  ears.  I  decide  to  keep  my  ears  blocked  for  ten  minutes  by  the clock,  which  now  says  twenty-five  past  two.  If  the  baby  is  still  crying  at  twenty-five  to  three  I  will  kill  it.  What  a  relief  that  at  twenty-eight  minutes  to  three  everything  is  quiet.  I  open  a  tin  of  beans  and  eat  them  cold,  with  a  spoon  left  over  from  breakfast.  It  would  have  been  bizarre  to  kill  the  baby.  One  shouldn't  even  think  of  such  things.  After  the  beans,  not  letting  myself  rest  for  a  moment  (it  is  getting  late,  but  oh  how  I  long  to  rest),  I  start  on  the  washing  up.  In  my  mind's  eye,  which  is  unreliable,  I  see  a  spotless  kitchen,  everything  stowed  away  or-  derly,  all  the  cereal  tipped  into  one  packet,  cheeses  covered  in  muslin,  little  tarts  waiting  to  be  filled,  preserves  labelled  Damson,  Ginger,  Rhubarb,  Apricot,  the  kettle  quietly  steaming  on  a  low  burner.  In  fact  I  merely  wash  the  breakfast  and  (presumably)  supper  dishes,  wipe  them  with  a  damp  tea  towel,  and  slam  them  anyhow  into  cup-  boards.  It  will  be  much  better  to  tidy  all  the  cupboards  at  once.  I  will  set  aside  a  day  for  it.  Everything  will  come  right  in  the  end.  At  least  asI  sit  (finally  allowing  myself  to  sit)  in  the  window  bay,  I  can  look  at  the  empty  draining  board,  the  plate  rack  propped  against  the  wall,  the  mop  and  scourer  neat  in  an  empty  milk  bottle.  Fool  that  I  am,  I  assume  that  since  I  have  done  the  washing  up,  the  washing  up  is  done.  I  could  start  on  the  next  item  on  the  list,  if  I  had  a  list.  As  it  is,  for  just  two  minutes  I  sit  doing  absolutely  nothing.  This  was  impossible  before,  in  the  place  where  there  was  infinite  freedom,  I  now  find  that  it  is  a  positive  act.  I  sit;  my  mouth  drops  open;  my  eyes  glaze;  my  mind  becomes  a  blank  screen,  only  shuddering  now  and  then  with  un-  formed  thought.  It  is  the  next  best  thing  to  being  dead;  if  perfected,  it  can  slip  into  death  with  no  interruption  whatever,  not  even  the  flick  of  an  eye-  lid.  So  I  am  sitting,  coasting  gently  be-  tween  death  and  life,  when  a  bom-  bardment  startles  me.  They  are  com-  ing!  'They  are  coming  with  their  satchels  bouncing  on  their  backs,  their  weapons  of  sport,  their  ripped  sweaters  and  torn  blazers!  They  are  coming,  with  their  inkstains  and  wounds,  new  bandages  and  socks  round  their  ankles!  Their  mouths  are  already  open,  to  be  crammed  with  food;  they  throw  their  bodies  recklessly  up  the  steps,  the  in-  vaders,  the  marauders,  the  victors  ludorem!  Whatever  fear  I  have  known  until  now  seems  no  more  than  a  little  gasp  in  my  sleep,  a  slight  sensation  of  fall-  ing.  Now  I  really  know  fear.  I  open  my  mouth  to  scream,  but  no  sound  comes  out.  I  step  forward  to  find  knives,  anything  to  protect  myself.  They  have  arrived.  My  gaping  mouth  is  a  smile;  my  hands,  warding  them  off,  welcome  them.  IX  I\xe2\x80\x99M  not  sure  if  I  can  keep  going.  I  am  not  sure  whether  I'm  still  sane.  Mrs.  April  visits  me  sometimes.  She  is  kind  and  worried,  rather  dis-  mayed  by  her  inability  to  help  me.  She  inspects  the  house,  approving  the  small  islands  of  order,  noting  uncritically  the  things  that  still  have  to  be  done.  She  inspects  the  baby-presumably  for  sores,  bruises,  and  so  on--and  if  any  of  the  children  are  there,  she  questions  them  quietly,  seeming  satisfied  with  their  answers.  Toward  the  end  of  her  visit,  we  always  have  tea,  just  the  two  of  us,  either  in  the  kitchen  or  the  sit-  ting  room.  She  always  says  the  same  thing,  balancing  her  cup  and  saucer  on  her  neat  knee:  &quot;Well,  do  you  want  to  leave?&quot;  &quot;You  know  I  do.  But  you  can  see  for  yourself-there's  so  much  to  be  done.&quot;  &quot;When  do  you  think  you'll  have  it  finished?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  Next  week,  perhaps.  Maybe  a  couple  of  weeks.&quot;  &quot;Basil  Gondzik  is  asking  after  you.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  This  conversation  be-  comes  a  waste  of  time.  'The  weather  hasn't  been  too  good  again.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,  dear,  if  there's  nothing  " b"I  can  do  .  .  .&quot;  She  looks  round  brightly,  replaces  the  cup  and  saucer  on  the  tray,  brushes  a  crumb  from  her  skirt.  &quot;I'll  be  on  my  way.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you  for  coming.&quot;  I  am  al-  lowing  myself  to  be  abandoned.  Now  is  the  time  to  cling  to  her  arm,  tell  her  I  can't  stand  it  another  minute,  de-  mand  that  she  take  me  with  her.I  show  her  to  the  frontdoor.  She  turns  and  gives  me  a  little  encouraging  wave  as  she  goes  through  the  gate.  This  hap-  pens  over  and  over  again.  I've  almost  given  up  hope  of  a  word  being  changed.  If  she  changed  so  much  as  a  word  I  would  be  horrified.  It's  not  the  hard  labor,  quite  hon-  estly,  that's  so  exhausting:  it's  the  lone-  liness,  the  guilt,  the  unendurable  exer-  cise  of  loving.  I  often  dream  about  you  now,  that  you  share  the  bed,  that  you  are  walking  out  of  the  locked  room,  that  I  am  waiting  for  you  or  that  you  have  just  gone  away.  But  when  I'm  awake  I  realize  that  you  are  not  so  much  a  necessity  as  a  device:  someone  (or  thing)  to  be  used  fora  purpose.  Our  love  for  each  other,  compared  with  this  marathon  I  am  now  engaged  in,  was,  is,  and  will  be  trivial.  Your  real  life,  your  most  genuine  love,  is  going  on  far  away:  so  far  that  if  I  could  see  it  at  all  it  would  be  micro-  scopic,  the  great  noise  you  make  in  my  dreams  dwarfed  and  inaudible.  If  you  ever  think  about  it  (I  doubt  whether  you  dream),  it  is  probably  the  same  for  you.  I  have  been  dead  for  years,  you  think,  so  you  have  peopled  my  house  with  strangers:  strangers,  that  is,  to  me.  And  yet  I  am  so  alive  (except  in  the  moments  of  doing  nothing),  so  solid,  so  keenly  intent  on  my  tasks,  so  absorbed,  so  prone  to  excitement  and  intolerable  fatigue,so  patient  and  stub-  born  with  this  house  and  its  endless  chores-how  can  you  imagine  me  dead?  Because  I  was  a  device  for  you,  too,  and  outlived  my  usefulness.  So  we  threw  each  other  away,  along  with  the  bicycles  and  watches  and  other  expen-  sive  machinery  that  had,  through  care-  lessness,  stopped  functioning.  I  am  not  entirely  to  blame.  One  must  think  about  something  while  (at  last)  tidying  the  shoe  cup-  board;  even  I  can't  be  entirely  con-cerned  with  sizes  2  through  5,  finding  the  pair  to  the  size-3  [REDACTED]  boot  or  the  size-4  dancing  slipper.  These,  roughly,  are  my  thoughts  while  I  play  (with  shoes)  a  game  called  Pelmanism::  a  frightening  game  in  which  packs  of  cards  are  scattered  face  downward  and  the  pairing  of  them  depends  on  mem-  ory.  I  am  not  entirely  to  blame  for  this  chaos;  to  believe  that  I,  alone,  created  " b"it  would  be  a  kind  of  hubris;  to  believe  that  I,  alone,  must  clean  it  up  and  re-  store  order  (which  possibly  was  never  there  in  the  first  place)  is  both  arrogant  and  presumptuous.  Even  a  good  gar-  dener  can't  achieve  anything  by  him-  self:  he  must  have  seeds,  plants,  tools,  apatch  of  fertile  ground.  Like  Oedipus,  I  have  never  broken  the  law,  for  the  simple  reason  that  I  have  never  been  conscious  of  doing  so.  Why,  then,  blind  myself?  Why  this  continual  mee  culpa?  Why  the  self-disgust?  Why  this  smug  conviction  that  every  misfortune  is  a  punishment,  every  weakness  an  orig-  inal  sin?  In  fact  I  don't  know  the  answers  to  these  questions,  or  indeed  whether  there  are  answers.  But  at  least  I  ask  them.  That  must  be  some-  thing.  The  shoe  cupboard  is  finished,  all  the  shoes  arranged  in  sizes,  the  odd  ones  thrown  away  (unable  to  convince  myself  that  I  may  sometime  have  a  one-legged  child);  the  baby  grows;  I  have  mended  a  lot  of  ragged  clothes  and  found  a  kind  of  satisfaction  in  shirt  buttons  andpajama  cords;  I  cook,  we  eat,  I  wash  the  dishes;  I  am  getting  quite  good  at  finding  lost  property  and  returning  it  to  the  rightful  owners;  they  have  come  to  think  of  me  as  judge,  provider,  oracle,  scullery  maid,  scapegoat,  a  begrudged  necessity  and  a  reliable  irritant.  My  fear  is  usually  controlled,  I  can  assume  the  insouci-  ance  of  a  lion  tamer  ora  snake  charm-  er  when  it  threatens.  On  the  surface  there  is  a  haphazard  attempt  at  order,  but  every  cupboard  except  one  is  still  bulging  with  rubbish,  every  drawer  is  a  confusion  of  knives  and  spools  and  spoons  and  string  and  skewers  and  the  tops  of  paste  pots.  In  order  to  survive  (I  hope)  with  some  sort  of  sanity,  I've  learned  to  adapt  myself  to  the  chaos  until  such  time  (if  ever)  I  can  control  it.  I  know  that  the  thread  is  in  with  the  teaspoons,  the  carving  knife  on  top  of  the  piano,  the  sock  on  the  fourth  row  of  books  on  the  left  of  the  fire-  place,  the  buttons  in  the  Odds  &amp;  Ends,  jar  of.  In  this  way,  of  course,  I  am  making  quite  sure  that  I'm  indispensa-  ble,  for  how  could  anyone  else  man-  age?  &quot;Well,  do  you  want  to  leave?&quot;  &quot;You  know  I  do.  But  you  can  see  for  yourself-there's  so  much  to  be  done.&quot;  &quot;When  do  you  think  you'll  have  it  finished?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  Next  week,  perhaps.  Maybe  a  couple  of  weeks.&quot;  Mistakenly,  perhaps,  I  don't  tell  Mrs.  April  my  private  thoughts  about  not  being  solely  responsible,  my  suspi-" b"cions  that  I  am  in  fact  innocent.  She  might  take  me  away  if  she  thought  I  wasn't  expiating  my  guilt.  So  I  begin  to  tidy  by  day  and  make  havoc  by  night,  in  the  attempt  to  make  time  stand  still.  As  a  result  of  this  cunning  notion,  the  level  of  disorder  appears  to  remain  the  same,  or  at  the  most  only  slightly  lower.  I  am  heartily  glad  that  I  never  made  the  list,  for  it  would  have  revealed  my  dishonesty.  There  is  an-  other  look  in  Mrs.  April's  mild  eye:  it  could  be  suspicion,  but  I  prefer  to  be-  lieve  it's  bewilderment.  Still  we  don't  alter  a  word  of  our  conversation.  Gondzik  is  always  asking  after  me,  the  weather  is  never  very  good.  I  firmly  believe  that  this  state  of  affairs  will  last  forever,  provided  I  don't  make  any  active  move  to  change  it.  HE  baby  is  growing  older.  That's  nice.  He  walks  and  speaks  and  runs;  he  reads  and  writes  and  draws  pictures  of  amphibious  cars.  He  is  moody-affectionate,  aggressive,  cheer-  ful,  withdrawn,  thoughtful,  sullen.  He  goes  away  from  the  house  now,  and  although  of  course  I  keep  busy  (mostly  with  preparations  for  his  return),  my  heart  is  suspended  during  his  absence;  you  could  say  I'm  absent-hearted,  not  really  listening  to  anything  except  for  the  sound  of  his  heavy  feet  on  the  steps,  not  really  seeing  anything  until  he  comes,  talking  vaguely  (to  myself  or  to  Mrs.  April)  until  I  can  talk  to  him  again,  though  heaven  knows  every-  thing  I  say  to  him  is  pretty  banal.  I  have  been  proud  of  each  height  he  has  attained-three  feet,  four  feet  eight,  five  feet  six,  and  now  he  is  taller  than  I  am.  It  is  an  unequal  relationship  in  that  I  believe  him  to  be  perfect,  where-  as  he  knows  (and  frequently  exagger-  ates)  my  imperfections.  Also,  of  course,  he  knows  other  people,  and  I  only  know  him,  the  children,  and  Mrs.  April.  Never  mind  all  that.  We  man-  age.  The  children  have  taken  to  staying  away  for  longer  and  longer  periods;  in  fact  I'm  not  at  all  sure  when  I  last  saw  them.  This  makes  it  much  more  difficult  to  keep  the  place  untidy,  but  between  us  we  do  our  best.  The  nurs-  ery  floor,  for  instance,  is  still  thick  with  broken  toys,  though  no  one  has  been  in  there  since  the  beginning  of  time.  &quot;Well,  do  you  want  to  leave?&quot;  Mrs.  April  asks  patiently.  &quot;You  know  I  do.  But  you  can  see  for  yourself-there's  so  much  to  be  done.&quot;  &quot;When  do  you  think  you'll  have  it  finished?&quot;  " b" &quot;I  don't  know.  Next  week,  perhaps.  Maybe  a  couple  of  weeks.&quot;  As  I  now  have,  in  fact,  very  little  to  do-disarranging  takes  no  time  at  all-I  have  far  less  opportunity  for  thought.  Thought  has  nothing  to  latch  on  to.  My  good  moments  of  doing  nothing  are  also  disturbed:  I  am  al-  ways  in  a  state  of  waiting.  I  wait  all  day  every  day,  and  most  of  the  nights.  The  person  who  was  the  baby  doesn't  come  back  for  tea,  for  supper;  he  is  not  there  at  breakfast.  He  is  not  there  at  all.  I  search  the  house  for  him.  I  will  clean  it,  tidy  it,  turn  out  all  the  cup-  boards  and  drawers,  fill  it  with  flowers  and  music  and  chocolate  if  only  he  will  come  back.  He  will  surely  arrive  to-  morrow.  Mrs.  April  turns  up  with  her  col-  IcagUC.  &quot;We  have  come  to  take  you  back,  dear.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  You  see  I  am  waiting.&quot;  &quot;There's  no  point  in  waiting.&quot;  &quot;But  you  can  see  for  yourself-  there's  so  much  to  be  done.&quot;  &quot;There's  nothing  you  can  do.  There's  no  more  to  be  done.&quot;  &quot;But  supposing  he  comes  and  there's  no  one  here?&quot;  &quot;He  won't  come.  Basil  Gondzik  is  asking  after  you.  The  weather  hasn't  been  too  good  again.&quot;  With  great  kindness,  handling  me  very  gently,  they  take  my  arms  and  carry  me  back  across  the  lawn,  my  feet  hardly  brushing  the  grass.  It  is  early  morning.  The  lily  pond,  the  trees,  the  house  itself  emerging  out  of  a  thick  mist.  My  windows  are  still  open.  The  deck  chairs  on  the  terrace  are  soggy  with  dew  or  rain.  When  they  get  me  to  my  room  they  put  me  to  bed;  I  sleep  for  a  long  time,  without  dreaming.  PART  THREE  X  I  NOW  believe  that  the  purpose  of  this  place  is  to  repeat  experience  until  itis  remembered:  a  gross  oversimplification,  no  doubt.  Gondzik  is  very  interested  in  my  stay  abroad.  He  questions  me  incessantly  about  the  smallest  detail.  But  although  I  can  re-  count  it  accurately  enough,  I  can't  re-  create  it.  He  will  never  know  what  it  was  really  like.  I  can  show  him  my  scarred  hands,  but  can  only  describe  to  him  (stammering,  uncertain,  inarticu-  late)  the  state  of  my  heart.  But  a  ful-  filled  heart,  surely,  he  asks;  a  colossal  human  achievement?  What  rubbish.  Sitting  in  my  rocking  chair,  I  still  find  myself  watching  for  the  person  (who  was  the  baby)  to  come  strolling  out  from  the  trees,  arm  round  a  girl's  neck  " b"as  though  to  strangle  her;  they  tussle  and  chase  each  other  in  circles,  then  rest,  legs  dangling,  on  the  wall  round  the  lily  pond.  But  I  am  frightened  of  actually  seeing  them.  In  my  imagina-tion  I  can  make  them  accessible. The  cast  has  altered  slightly,  Eliza-  beth  gone  (though  Gondzik  says  only  temporarily),  Hermann  gone,  Rowena  changed  her  appearance,  Revlon  ab-  dicated  in  favor  of  Dominic,  Simon  and  George  established.  Mavis  wel-comes  me  back  warmly,  with  a  whole  babble  of  stories  which  I  understand  better-or  at  least  different-ly than  I  did  before.  There  is  a  new  girl,  Leonora,  who  laughs  without  mirth.  She  is   by  no  means  unattractive  (the  blonde,  I  hear,  was very  caustic  when  she  ar-rived),  but  out  of  her  rather  stony  little   face  breaks  this  awful  laughter  which   makes  our  blood  run  cold.  She  has  a  habit  of  marching  up  to  people  an  d  saying  imperiously,  &quot;I  want  to  talk  to  you.  Now.&quot;  But  then  she  has  nothing  to  say.  She  simply  laughs  in  your  face  and  struts  away,  insulted.  I  thought  at  least  the  office  situa-  tion  would  be  resolved,  but  it  isn't.  All  sorts  of  predictions  float  around  as  to  when  the  Director  will  resign;  wheth-  er  he'll  resign;  whether  he'll  be  sued  for  mismanagement;  or  whether,  in  fact,  he  may  have  already  committed  suicide  and  is  operating  through  a  set  of  mirrors.  I  have  lost  whatever  inter-  est  I  had  in  the  case.  I  forget  to  pass  on  rumors.  As  far  as  politics  are  con-  cerned,  even  Gondzik  learns  to  leave  me  alone.  I  have  other  concerns,  which  begin,  very  soon  after  my  return,  with  the  dog.  Just  as  I  predicted  or  remem-  bered,  she  comes  racing  t  oward  me  on  the  p  ool  path,  ears  back,  coat  stream-  ing,  ruddered  by  a  plumed  tail.  Wildly  barking,  she  fli  ngs  herself  at  me  head  on,  practically  knocking  me  over;  she  circles  me  in  a  frenzy,  then  suddenly  cringes,  grovelling,  dragging  herself  round  on  her  stomach,  going  through  every  servile  trick  to  make  me  feel  ba  dly.  All  right,  Pll  take  you  over.  Now  she  leap  s  more  like  a  lamb  than  a  dog,  all  feet  tog  ether,  springing  through  the  wood  alongside  me  but  keeping  a  wary  eye  on  my  possible  treachery.  When  we  reach  the  pool  she  lies  down  ,  behaving  correctly,  in  a  patch  of  shade,  her  whole  body  heaving  with  the  heat  and  the  exertion.  Now  I  own  a  dog,  my  routine  be-  gins  to  change.  I  feel  guilty  about  stay-  ing  in  my  room  all  day,  and  the  walk  to  the  pool  is  no  longer  sufficient:  the  dog  must  have  fields,  ditches,  rabbits,  bracken,  a  variety  of  smells.  Also  I  am  more  confident  in  her  presence.  I  ven-  ture  paths  where  I  have  never  been  before.  I  see  no  one  as  yet,  but  very  often  the  dog  stiffens,  alerts,  barks  at  shadows.  At  night  she  creeps  under  my  bed;  if  I  wake  and  call  her  (think-  ing  she's  gone),  her  tail  thuds  between  bed  and  floor  like  a  heartbeat.  Gondzik  has  two  entirely  opposed  viewsabout  the  dog.  On  the  one  hand,  he  thinks  she  takes  me  out  of  myself  (which  is  apparently  desirable);  on  the  other,  he  thinks  that  I  arranged  for  her  to  come  just  when  she  did,  and  that  I  am  using  her  as  a  substitute  for  the  people  who  have  left  me.  This  is  not  desirable.  In  vain  I  try  to  convince  him  thatthe  dog  is  a  dog,  and  a  very  in-  adequate  substitute  for  anything  but  a  dog.  Even  while  he  strides  along  with  her,  barking  meaningless  commands,  he  is  fathoming  deep  meanings  to  this  dog.  I  was  put  through  the  ordeal  of  the  house,  he  says,  in  order  to  experi-  ence  desolation.  What  am  I  doing,  trying  to  cheat  desolation  with  a  dog!  And  so  on.  I  have  got  to  the  stage  now  when  I  let  him  think  what  he  likes.  So  long  as  he  is  with  me  I  am  as  protected  as  being  with  an  irritating  nursemaid.  I  think  about  something  else,  usually  going  over  the  house  in  my  mind  and  deciding  what  I  would  have  done  there,  had  there  been  time.  Gondzik  now  decides-quite  arbi-  trarily,  it  seems  to  me-that  I  am  a  woman.  He  no  longer  touches  me,  probably  feeling  it  to  be  incestuous,  and  has  become  (according  to  his  lights)  properly  parental.  This  is  a  terrible  pass  for  my  Gondzik  to  come  to;  he  knew  (without  consciously  knowing)  that  a  successful  lover  is  parent,  sibling,  child,  not  to  mention  the  minor  gods.  Gondzik  is  strictly  compartmentalized.  I  am  a  woman:  therefore  I  am  un-  healthy  without  a  man  (and  particular-  ly  unhealthy  with  a  dog).  I  must  find  one,  there  are  plenty  about.  I  answer  flippantly  enough  that  when  a  woman  devised  these  things,  she  created  only  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Spirit.  Then  what  is  my  Holy  Spirit,  Gondzik  asks  earnestly.  He  is  like  a  doctor  trying  to  determine  whether  I'm  getting  sufficient  vitamins.  As  usu-  al,  I  can't  think  of  a  sensible  answer,  so  don't  answer  at  all.  Nevertheless,  as  the  attack  goes  on,  gathers  momentum  (starting  as  subtle  asides,  becoming  ever  more  explicit  and  enraged),  I  begin  to  feel  dread-  fully  inadequate.  It's  true  that  after  that  time  of  activity  (however  great  the  suppressed  fear)  I  am  terribly  " b"lonely.  If  they  were  going  to  put  me  in  that  house,  with  all  those  things  to  be  done  and  all  those  people  to  love,  they  might  at  least  have  the  charity  to  let  me  forget  it.  As  it  is,  Gondzik  plays  on  my  longing  for  physical  contact  until  the  very  air  surrounding  me  seems  hostile.  Perhaps  Gondzik  is  right.  I  would  like  to  smile  more  easily.  It  is  not  enough  that  the  dog  makes  me  smile.  As  in  the  period  before  the  en-  tertainment,  Isee  myself  to  be  old  and  ugly,  but  now  I  react  to  it  with  despair  and  venom  (exactly  as  Gondzik  has  planned?  ).  The  dog,  possibly  feeling  her  insufficiency,  looks  as  though  she  is  about  to  be  hanged.  If  I  could  hit  back  at  Gondzik  by  becoming  actively  sexual  and  political,  I  would  feel  exonerated.  But,  as  I've  already  discovered,  I'm  a  hopeless  audi-  ence  and  I  can't  act.  Gondzik  creates  a  non-stop  entertainment  in  his  head,  at  which  he  observes  himself  raping,  being  eaten  and  digested  by  a  multi-  racial  confederacy  of  girls.  This  fan-  tasy  seems  to  him  quite  satisfactory.  He  is  fortunate.  The  other,  whom  I  once  knew  (or  will,  pray  God,  know),  eventually  only  cared  for  the  long  slow  thrust,  the  crescendo  of  mutual  pleasure  that  could  culminate,  at  last,  in  the  rite  of  conception.  Childish,  perhaps.  Dull.  A  dull  child,  I  stubbornly  con-  tinue  to  believe  that  the  most  potent  aphrodisiac  is  love.  (I  dreamed  that  you  were  driving  at  night,  in  Africa,  with  a  girl  whom  you  had  picked  up  in  a  bar.  It  was  very  dark,  with  a  warm  wind.  There  was  some  obstacle  in  the  road,  a  gate,  a  level  crossing.  The  girl  got  out  of  the  car  to  deal  with  it.  As  she  stood  in  the  road,  erect,  mysterious,  you  turned  to  me  and  told  me  that  you  were  feeling  the  greatest  sexual  desire  of  your  life.  I  understood  you  com-  pletely.  This  disproved  my  belief  but  was,  as  far  as  I  was  concerned,  only  a  dream.)  I  don't  tell  Gondzik  any  of  this;  he  would  scoff.  I  begin  to  feel  that  I  shouldn't  spend  so  much  time  withhim,  that  he  is  destructive  to  me.  But  when  there  is  so  much  time,  spending  it  be-  comes  irrelevant;  it's  necessary  to  give  it  away  in  great  armfuls  when  loneli-  ness  threatens.  This  is  the  poor  reason  for  allowing  Gondzik  to  criticize  what-  ever  I  say  or  do  or  am  or  have  been.  As  for  what  willbe,  unless  I  can  find  a  relationship  of  which  he  approves,  he  tries  (successfully)  to  make  me  believe  I'm  beyond  hope  or  help.  Turning  my  confidences  against  me,  he  now  states  that  what  he  once  called  a  colossal  hu-  man  achievement  was  no  more  than  an  arid  mistake.  Why  did  I  stay  away  so  " b"long:  Out  of  cowardice,  he  says,  be-  fore  I  can  answer.  I  am  self-loving,  self-absorbed,  self-obsessed;  why  can't  I  beg,  like  any  other  woman;  why  can't  I  admit  that  the  greatest  achieve-  ment  of  all  is  to  be  humble  with  men  (and  Gondzik)?  Pleasure  begins,  he  says  (throwing  a  stick  for  the  dog),  where  morality  ends.  Idon't  understand  what  morality  has  got  to  do  with  it.  Perhaps  in  Gond-  zik's  view  the  Director  and  his  staff  are  having  fun:  it  is  commonly  agreed  that  they  have  left  morality  behind  and  are  flouting  the  accepted  rules  of  de-  cency  and  virtue.  Gondzik,  too,  is  ar-  dently  concerned  with  flouting  these  rules;  yet  in  him,  it  seems,  this  is  com-  mendable.  The  fact  is  that  he  can't  do  without  morality:  without  that  spur  he  would  have  no  pleasure,  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  indulge  himself  in  evil,  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  congratulate  him-  self  on  being  a  lawbreaker.  Whereas  I,  long  since  cast  off  from  morality,  a  be-  liever  solely  in  convenience,  am  be-  calmed,  no  wind  to  fill  my  sails.  I  don't  know  how  long  my  life  will  be,  whether  it  will  be  spent  here,  whether  they  will  take  me  to  another  part  of  the  place,  or  whether  I  shall  return  where  I  came  from.  But  here  and  now,  whether  I  die  this  evening  or  not,  Gondzik  has  convinced  me  that  life  is  insufferable.  Something  must  be  done.  I  must  capture  that  elusive  ener-  gy  that  got  me  out  of  bed  in  the  morn-  ings  at  the  house.  Someone  or  some-  thing  must  make  demands  on  me.  I  try  to  pick  up  rumors  again,  but  Dominic  says  the  staff  is  all  on  holiday,  nothing  doing  in  the  office.  So  I  confront  (fur-  tively)  the  men,  trying  to  pick  one  who  will,  in  Gondzik's  eyes,  be  good  for  me.  The  trouble  is  that  my  eyes  are  not  only  a  different  color  from  Gondzik's,  they  are  a  different  sex.  If  I  had  male  eyes  I  could  inspect  the  available  flesh  with  casual  good  humor,  discussing  it  with  my  friends.  I  go  to  the  pool,  scan-  ning  the  men  from  behind  dark  glasses.  They  would  be  horrified  if  they  knew  what  I  was  up  to,  these  fellatio  addicts,  these  consumers  of  Playboy  and  Pent-  house,  whose  hatred  of  women  so  far  surpasses  mine  of  them.  I  try  to  find  promise  in  white  blubber,  sloping  shoul-  ders,  flat  feet,  monstrous  growths  of  body  hair,  or  chests  as  pallid  and  en-  feecbled  as  a  breastless  woman's.  One  walks  with  thighs  pressed  together,  but-  tocks  clenched,  as  though  in  agony  to  relieve  himself;  another  swings  along  like  an  ape,  knuckles  brushing  the  ground.  It  is  impossible  to  find  out  whether  any  of  them  are  lovable " b"(which,  according  to  my  belief,  should  make  them  appetizing),  for  they  seem  to  inhabit  a  world  in  which  love  has  never  existed.  They  are  pleasant  enough,  to  be  sure,  nodding  to  each  other,  making  civil  gestures;  once  in  the  water,  they  even  communicate  by  means  of  splashing,  shouting,  throwing  a  ball  about,  roaring  a  good  deal.  But  if  they  were  women  they  would  make  themselves  sick;  they  would  laugh  at  themselves  and  tell  cruel  jokes  in  the  locker  room.  I,  being  far  too  ambitious,  am  looking  for  someone  with  the  body  ofa  boy,  the  wisdom  of  a  father,  the  sensibility  of  a  woman,  and  the  strength  of  Almighty  God.  Rebelliously  obedient  to  Gondzik,  I  turn  to  the  men  who  stay  indoors.  Some  of  them  are  homosexuals,  at  least  two  of  them  very  beautiful.  But  I  can't  set  out  to  conquer  alien  ground.  They  form  a  small  group,  really  easy  only  in  each  other's  company.  The  habits  of  minorities  die  hard,  and  even  the  most  emancipated  of  them  seems  on  the  lookout  for  persecution.  &quot;Queer  as  a  coot&quot;  joins  &quot;working  like  a  black&quot;  and&quot;Jew-boy&quot;  as  a  term  of  abuse.  &quot;Just  like  a  woman&quot;  is  also,  to  say  the  least,  in  bad  taste.  The  rules  of  com-  munication  become  more  and  more  stringent.  I  merely  (for  a  start)  want  to  hold  someone's  hand.  The  only  man  for  whom  I  feel  the  slightest  attraction  (in  the  male  sense)  is  Simon,  who  looks  like  a  gloomy  ado-  lescent  and  talks  with  the  wit  of  a  mid-  dle-aged  don.  Maybe  it  would  work  splendidly  on  a  desert  island;  here  (al-  though  we're  supposed  to  be  timeless),  the  disparity  in  our  ages  makes  any  kind  of  approach  unthinkable.  He  may  be  much  older  than  I,  but  whichever  way  you  look  at  it  we  couldn't  even  loosely,  even  by  a  decade  or  two,  be  called  contemporaries.  I  am  not  to  blame  for  these  ancient  laws,  remem-  ber,  and  cannot  consciously  break  them.  That  leaves  only  George,  so  George  (to  try  and  put  up  some  sort  of  a  show  for  Gondzik)  it  must  be.  Gondzik,  conniving,  provides  me  with  drink.  The  dog,  conniving,  takes  a  fancy  to  George.  We  go  for  walks,  and  see  nothing  extraordinary.  I  even  find  the  vegetable  garden  again,  pro-  lific  as  before,  but  empty.  George  is  what  I  suppose  to  be  a  normal  man.  Of  average  height  and  weight  and  age,  he  would  make  (or  has  made)  a  good  husband,  soldier,  or  civil  servant.  I  continually  forget  what  he  looks  like,  and  try  to  imprint  on  my  mind  his  av-  erage  face:  without  success,  for  the  mo-  ment  he  is  out  of  sight  it's  gone  again.  I  realize  that  the  reason  I  cannot  know  " b"George  is  that  I  have  never  known  him  before.  That's  why  I  can't  recog-  nize  him.  We  are  complete  strangers  to  each  other.  At  this  point  I  want  to  give  up,  the  enterprise  seems  quite  hopeless.  But  Gondzik  goads  me  on.  Search,  he  says,  ferret  out,  pursue,  investigate,  pry  if  necessary;  there  has  got  to  be  some-  thing  recognizable  in  George,  some-  thing  that  will  touch  or  move  me.Find  out  what  his  political  views  are,  for  a  start.  I  do.  They  are  average.  He  must  have  brought  something  with  him,  some  experience  he  can't  yet  remem-  ber.  I  try,  and  find  a  perfectly  clear  recollection  of  an  average  family,  wife  and  two  children,  nothing  hidden  away.  Gondzik  says  this  is  impossible,  I'm  not  making  enough  effort:  make  him  lose  his  head,  Gondzik  insists,  sweep  him  off  his  feet.  Me?  Yes,  you!  But  how  do  I  do  that,  how  set  about  it?  Blind  him  with  money  and  fame?  Buy  him  outright?  Send  him  flowers  every  day?  Or  (reversing  sexes)  strip,  coo,  purr,  yelp  a  little?  You're  hope-  less,  Gondzik  says,  slamming  his  chapel  door.  It's  true.  I  am.  And  the  curious  thing  is  that  as  soon  as  I  become  hope-  less  George  begins  to  reveal  himself  a  little.  I  find  that  his  face,  in  certain  lights  and  at  certain  times,  is  wry.  He  has  a  higher  than  average  knowledge  ofgolf  and  Glenn  Miller.  He  is  very  slightly  puzzled  about  his  mother  and  grandmother,  tending  to  confuse  them  with  each  other.  He  doesn't  know  why  he  is  here,  but  imagines  it's  something  to  do  with  an  old  war  wound  which  troubles  him  occasionally.  He  even  hints,  with  average  slyness,  at  average  love  affairs  he  has  had  while  away  from  home.  He  kisses  me  good  night  with  average  passion.  Gondzik  is  enchanted.  He  says  I  look  better  already.  Lord,  but  he's  a  fool.  And  yet  if  I  allow  myself  to  think  Gondzik  a  fool  I  shall  no  longer  have  any  guidance  or  anchor  at  all  in  this  place.  I  must  goon  in  the  belief  that  he  is  right.  There's  no  alternative.  Finally,  coldly,  making  the  required  sounds  and  gestures,  I  seduce  George.  He  keeps  his  underpants  on.  It  is  such  an  average  experience  that  it  can't  be  justified  or  regretted,  praised  or  con-  demned,  remembered  or  forgotten.  However,  when  I  wake  the  next  morn-  ing  I  am  at  least  able  to  think  that  I  have  made  a  life,  of  sorts.  T  breakfast  next  morning,  Gond-  zik  marches  in  like  a  man  with  something  weighty  on  his  mind.  But  where,  as  the  artificial  orange  juice,  " b"the  coffee,  and  the  eggs  take  their  dread  course,  is  George?  He  didn't  sleep  with  me,  of  course.  Has  he  over-  slept?  Is  he  ill  or  angry?  What  was  before  a  merely  average  presence  be-  comes,  suddenly,  a  very  positive  ab-  sence.  My  life  (of  sorts)?  Where  is  my  average  life?  I  worked  for  it,  where  has  it  gone?  Nobody  mentions  George.  I  run  to  find  Mavis.  No,  dear,  I  don't  know  at  all.  I  run  to  George's  room,  along  dozens  of  corridors.  Locked.  No  an-  swer  to  my  knocking.  I  run  back,  up-  stairs,  downstairs,  upstairs  again  to  Gondzik's  virginal  acrice.  &quot;Where's  George?&quot;  He  smiles  with  pretty  teeth  and  lips,  eyes  gentle.  &quot;George?  He's  gone.&quot;  I  throw  myself  on  him,  hammering  with  clenched  fists.  He  nods  slowly,  smiling,  as  though  congratulating  me.  X1  HE  entertainers  have  gone,  the  air  is  a  little  sharper.  Realizing  now  that  all  they  intend  to  do  here  is  cheat  me,  I  decide  to  escape.  I  am  not  going  to  confide  in  Gondzik,  who  told  me  I  could  leave  without  dif-  ficulty  at  any  time.  He  is  not  to  be  trusted,  I'm  sure  he's  in  league  with  whoever  it  is  who  wants  to  trap  me.  I  must  therefore  make  plans  of  my  own.  The  first  thing  is  to  try  and  find  out  the  lie  of  the  land  and  which  di-  rection  I  should  take.  The  dog,  of  course,  always  comes  with  me  on  my  explorations:  her  senses  are  much  sharper  than  mine.  I  make  an  arbitrary  choice  of  north,  south,  east,  and  west,  deciding  that  the  statue  in  the  lily  pond  faces  north.  Guided  by  this,  I  make  a  rough  map  of  the  places  I  know:  the  mansion,  the  pool,  the  vegetable  garden.  I  can't  put  the  house  in,  because  I  have  no  idea  where  it  is.  I  also  draw  a  rough  circle  for  the  lake,  where  Gondzik  saw  the  skater.  Every  day  after  breakfast,  when  I  am  dressed,  the  dog  and  I  set  out,  each  day  going  a  little  farther,  each  dayadding  something  to  the  map.  We  put  in  a  tower  in  the  woods  (appar-  ently  unlnhabltcd)  various  glades  with  statues  and  rustic  seats,  a  couple  of  full-size  houses  (shuttered  and  locked  ),  and,  at  last,  the  office.  This  too  is  closed  for  the  holiday,  but  it  is  obvious-  ly  the  office,  as  it  is  a  modern  building  with  a  tarmac  driveway  which  is  no-  ticed  No  Entry,  No  Parking,  No  Loading  or  Unloading,  Trespassers  Will  Be  Prosecuted,  No  Dogs,  No  Bare  Feet,  and  Forbidden  to  Spit.  I  am  very  tempted  to  take  my  sandals  off  and  enter  with  the  dog,  spitting;  but  since  there  is  obviously  no  one  there,  it  would  be  pointless.  However,  it  is  helpful  to  have  it  on  my  map,  as  if  things  get  really  desperate  I  now  intend  to  burgle  it  at  night.  Curiously  enough,  it  doesn't  seem  to  be  guarded,  and  the  holiday  might  be  a  good  time  to  try.  One  day  we  find  a  very  old  woman  sitting  in  a  garden  chair  under  the  pines,  a  tea  tray  by  her  side  on  a  small  table.  The  dog,  of  course,  approaches  her  first,  tail  wagging,  nose  inquisitive.  I  lurk  about  among  the  trees  for  a  while,  until  I  see  that  the  old  woman  is  glad  to  meet  the  dog,  and  is  indeed  offering  her  a  piece  of  broken  biscuit.  &quot;Well,  well,  doggy,&quot;  the  old  wom-  an  says  aloud,  &quot;and  where  do  you  come  from?&quot;  I  walk  over  the  soft  pine  needles  on  mocceasined  feet.  Seeing  me,  theold  woman  tries  to  rise  from  her  chair.  I  say  &quot;Don't  get  up&quot;  and,  since  her  face  seems  to  be  lifted  expectantly,  kiss  her  papery  cheek.  There  are  two  cups  on  the  tray,  a  tea  cozy  on  the  teapot.  She  settles  back,  apparently  ready  for  some  sort  of  diversion,  her  hands  fold-  ed  in  her  lap.  Sitting  on  the  ground,  I  pour  the  tea  into  shallow  china  cups,  she  takes  hers  with  a  trembling  hand,  so  I  make  room  for  it  on  the  tray.  I'm  so  suspicious  now  that  I  think  the  old  woman  may  be  someone  else  in  dis-  guise,  a  bait  to  lure  me  into  talking.  Hugging  my  knees,  I  ask,  &quot;Tell  me  a  story.&quot;  &quot;A  story?&quot;  The  little  face  puffs  into  incredulous  self-ridicule.  &quot;I've  for-  gotten  all  my  stories.&quot;  &quot;No,  you  haven't.  upon  a  time  ...&quot;  &quot;Well.&quot;  She  thinks  for  a  moment,  head  cocked,  hazel  eye  fastening  on  a  high  branch.  The  dog  cocks  her  head  also,  looking  up.  &quot;Well,  once  upon  a  time-&quot;  &quot;Long  ago?&quot;  &quot;Long  ago.  There  was  a  little  girl  who  wished  she  was  a  pirate  or  a  Red  Indian  or  a  giant  in  seven-league  boots.  Most  little  girls  want  to  be  princesses  and  fairies  and  .  ..  well,  pretty  things  of  that  sort.  But  this  little  girl  whose  name  was  Dora-&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cD0rdP&gt;,  &quot;Yes.  Dora.  This  little  girl  was  go-  ing  to  fight  MlldJEkCCWIS  with  the  fatal  Wawbeek-  &quot;The  what?&quot;  &quot;She  loved  the  tales  of  the  Norse-  men,  all  about  Thor  and  Odin  and  Loki  and  Balder  the  Beautiful  who  was  killed,  you  know,  by  a  dart  of  mistletoe  thrown  by  his  brother  Hoder,  who  was  blind.  Of  course,  he  didn't  " b"mean  to  do  it.  Yes,  Dora  was  very  stubborn,  a  bit  of  a  hobbledchoy  real-  ly.  ...&quot;  The  old  woman  drifts  off  for  a  moment.  I  wait  for  her  to  continue.  So  far  the  story  is  not  very  interesting.  &quot;And  her  main  fault  was,  she  believed  everything  she  was  told!&quot;  Dramatic  pause.  I  blink  rapidly,  &quot;There  was  a  lady  in  the  village-the  schoolmaster's  wife,  as  it  happens-who  was  going  to  have  a  baby,  and  she  told  Dora  that  when  it  came  she  would  sell  it  to  Dora  for  sixpence.  Now  Dora's  parents  weren't  rich  and  they  gave  her  a  penny  a  week  to  buy  peppermints  and  so  on.  There  was  only  one  shop  in  the  vil-  lage  and  this  was  run  by  an  old  crone  called  Mrs.  Jessup,  a  nice  old  thing  but  she  was  doubled  up  with  arthritis  and  Dora  was  perfectly  convinced  she  was  a  witch.  Anyway.  For  six  long  weeks  Dora  saved  up  her  pennies  and  on  the  day  when  she  was  given  her  sixth  penny-it  was  a  Saturday-she  set  off  down  the  road  with  the  six  cop-  per  pennies  in  her  hand,  striding  along  pretending  she  was  a  giant.  She  went  in  through  the  schoolmaster's  gate  and  knocked  on  the  schoolmaster's  door,  and  in  a  few  minutes  the  schoolmaster's  wife  came  to  the  door-'Hullo,  Dora,  have  you  come  to  see  the  baby?&quot;  &quot;  The  old  woman  is  an  excellent  mimic,  and  is  now  well  into  her  stride.  &quot;  'No,&quot;  said  Dora,  and  held  out  the  six  pennies,  'I've  come  to  buy  it&quot;  Oh,  how  the  schoolmaster's  wife  laughed!  Well,  did  you  ever,  imagine  Dora  thinking  she  could  buy  a  baby  for  sixpence!&quot;  Her  face  crumples.  I  am  not  amused.  &quot;So  what  hap-  pened  then?&quot;  &quot;Dora  went  into  a  terrible  tan-  trum,  she  was  inconsolable,  And  she  decided  that  whatever  else  she  did,  however  many  battles  she  fought  (and  won,  of  course)  and  however  many  prisoners  she  got  out  of  prison  and  however  famous  she  became  as  a  poet  or  however  great  she  became  as  a  king,  she  would  revenge  herself  on  that  schoolmaster's  poor  wife!&quot;  &quot;So  what  did  she  do?&quot;  &quot;She  grew  up  and  had  a  great  many  babies  and  grew  old  and  died,&quot;  the  old  woman  says  simply,  with  a  final  air.  I  am  appalled.  The  air  in  the  woods  seems  ice-cold.  I  have  gooseflesh  on  my  arms  and  legs.  The  old  woman  levers  herself  up,  finds  a  shawl,  which  she  efficiently  wrapsround  her  shoulders,  a  stick,  which  she  grasps  firmly  in  her  right  hand,  and  totters  off  through  the  trees.  I  call  &quot;Goodbye!&quot;  but  she  doesn't  hear  me.  I  want  to  follow  her,  but  she  is  out  of  sight.  Have  mercy,  be  merciful.  Our  father,  who  art  in  heavy-" b"en,  hallowed  be  thy  name.  Thy  king-  dom  come.  Thy  will  be  done  on  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven.  Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread,  and  forgive  us  our  tres-  passes,  as  we  forgive  those  who  trespass  against  us.  And  lead  us  not  into  tempta-  tion.  For  thine  is  the  kingdom,  the  power,  and  theglory,  for  ever  and  ever.  Amen.  Having  prayed  as  well  as  I  can  remember,  I  try  to  hold  the  dog  for  comfort,  but  she  squirms  away  and  is  off  through  the  trees  in  the  direction  of  what  she  knows  as  home.  Can  this  be  all  there  is  to  a  life?  Are  those  really  the  bare  bones  of  it?  Nothing  else?  No  loom,  no  spinning  wheel:  nothing?  What  about  love  and  thought,  acts  of  creation  and  acts  of  madness?  Must  eyes  have  drawn  blinds  forever,  hearts  lock  their  doors?  Is  it  all  just  a  cruel  prank  played  by  the  ignorant  on  the  innocent  (by  you  on  me,  who  could  never  see  the  joke)?  For  God's  sake  (who  also  delivers  us  from  evil)  get  me  out  of  this  play-ground,  let  me  see  the  world  as  a  whole,  let  me  know  where  I  am  and  what  I  can  hope  for,  expect,  or  dread.  I  stumble  back  to  the  mansion,  find  the  dog  waiting  patiently  at  the  door,  For  a  while,  some  days  I  suppose,  Istay  in  my  room,  pleading  a  minor  illness.  Gondzik  takes  the  dog  out  and,  rather  surprisingly,  brings  me  food.  I  keep  the  blinds  down  and  walk  long  distances  between  the  furniture,  I  sit  in  the  chairs,  lie  on  the  bed,  pounding  and  pummelling  my  empty  head  until  it  hums  but  reveals  nothing.  Some-  times  I  look  at  my  map,  but  the  im-  mensity  of  what  isn't  there  defeats  me.  I  passionately  envy  the  dead,  who  have  no  future.  Death  smiles,  but  I  don't  know  how  to  reach  it,  the  usual  meth-  ods  are  unavailable  and  I  have  little  ingenuity.  &quot;'There  is  an  old  woman,&quot;  I  say  to  Gondzik  one  day.  &quot;She  must  live  in  the  woods.  Bring  her  here.  I  want  her.&quot;  Gondzik  considers.  &quot;I  don't  know  any  old  woman.&quot;  &quot;Then  ask.  Someone  her.&quot;  He  says  he  has  asked  and  that  no  one  knows  her.  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  out  and  find  her  yourself?&quot;  &quot;I  can't.  I'm  ill.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Mrs.  April  could  go  with  you.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  no!&quot;  My  fists  clench,  I'm  beside  myself  with  fear.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  see  Mrs.  April!  I  don't  ever  want  to  see  her  again!&quot;  &quot;Very  well.&quot;  The  door  closes;  I'm  alone  again.  One  day  I  pull  up  the  blind  a  few " b"inches.  Some  ofthe  trees  are  growing  rusty;  a  pheasant  stands  so  still  on  the  grass  that  I  think  it's  pottery;  there  is  a  faint  smell  of  burning,  and  the  in-  sects  have  been  washed  off  my  screens  by  the  rain.  The  map,  with  its  im-  mense  deserts,  lies  on  the  table.  The  dog  (who  must  have  forgotten  that  there  was  once  light  in  this  room)  runs  at  me  and  knocks  with  her  front  paws,  uttering  small  demanding  barks.  It's  sucha  long  time  since  I  went  to  the  pool.  Do  leaves  float  in  it  now?  Does  Gondzik  still  battle  about  in  the  water?  Is  it  warm?  When  do  they  empty  the  pool?  Will  it  soon  be  winter?  The  dog  scratches  at  my  leg  as  though  it  were  a  door.  I  put  on  my  swimsuit  and  smock,  find  my  dreary  towel,  pack  my  chattels,  steal  out  of  my  room,  uselessly  telling  the  dog  to  be  quiet.  She  leaps  down  the  red-carpeted  stairs,  stopping  on  each  landing  to  make  sure  I  am  still  there.  I  remember  that  the  way  to  the  pool  is  very  straightforward,  but  again  I  lose  my  way,  finding  myself  in  a  sunny  orchard  with  russet  apples  festooning  the  trees.  They  aren't  ripe  yet,  but  some  of  them  have  already  fallen.  I  throw  them  for  the  dog,  who  is  crazed  with  happiness,  bringing  each  one  back  in  her  slavering  jaws,  then  refusing  to  be  parted  from  it.  There  is  a  large  wooden  hut  in  the  orchard,  with  smoke  creeping  out  of  a  rusty  chimney.  I  ap-  proach  it  cautiously  but  with  determi-  nation,  in  case  the  old  woman  is  inside  with  her  kettle.  The  windows  are  clean,  and  there  is  indeed  furniture;  somebody  lives  there,  somebody  is  sit-  ting  in  an  armchair.  I  push  the  door,  with  one  finger,  a  mere  inch;  but  the  foolish  dog  bounds  against  it  and  rushes  in  with  all  the  pandemonium  of  a  dog  unexpectedly  returned  from  a  long  journey.  The  gardener  peers  round  the  wing  of  his  armchair,  amazed  by  this  visitation.  What  am  I  to  do?  I  step  backward  toward  the  sun.  &quot;Come  in,  come  in,&quot;  he  snaps  impatiently.  &quot;I  was  just  ...&quot;  &quot;And  close  the  door  behind  you,  it  makes  the  stove  smoke.&quot;  He  is  as  I  remembered,  except  that  today  he  wears  a  tie  and  a  greenish  pullover.  I  sit  down  well  out  of  reach,  measuring  the  distance  to  the  closed  door.  The  dog  collapses  in  front  ofthe  stove  with  a  huge  sigh  of  relief.  Well,  how  are  you  today?&quot;  &quot;All  right.&quot;  I'm  very  wary.  &quot;You  must  never  be  unhappy.&quot;  &quot;I've  been  very  unhappy.&quot;   &quot;Why? &quot;  &quot;I  can't  stand  it  in  that  place.  I'm  " b"imprisoned.  I  don't  know  what's  going  to  happen  tomorrow.  I'm  lonely.  I  don't  see  any  point  in  living.&quot;  &quot;You  shouldn't  be  in  that  place,&quot;  he  says  firmly,  lighting  his  pipe  with  three  matches.  &quot;It's  no  place  for  you.  You  should  be  free.  I  don't  know  why  they  took  you  there,  it  must  have  been  a  mistake.&quot;  &quot;You  really  think  so?&quot;  He  nods,  energetically  puffing.  &quot;Freedom  to  live,  that's  what  you  need.  Break  through  these  petty  re-  strictions.  You're  an  artist,  a  free  spirit.  You  were  born  to  be  beautiful  and  to  create  beauty.  They  don't  un-  derstand.&quot;  &quot;They  don't  understand.&quot;  &quot;But  I  understand.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you  understand.&quot;  &quot;Remember  I'm  always  here.&quot;  &quot;You'll  give  me  sanctuary?&quot;  &quot;Of  course.  Anytime.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  ...you  really  believe  I  have  a  life  worth  living?&quot;  &quot;Life!  What  can  you  do  with  life  but  live  it?  Live  it  to  the  utmost!  Live  it  to  the  full!  Why  let  them  clip  your  wings?  You  should  soar,  soar.  .  ..&quot;  He  makes  a  vague  and  expansive  gesture  toward  the  smoky  ceiling.  &quot;Life  is  a  great  and  glorious  experience,  it  can't  survive  behind  bars.  Break  away,  my  darling,  break  loose,  break  out!  I  don't  know  a  single  intelligent  person,  but  for  you,  out  there&quot;-again  he  encom-  passes  the  universe-'&quot;there  are  riches,  gems,  diamonds  of  wisdom,  and  love!&quot;  I  am  deeply  impressed,  but  one  thing  still  troubles  me.  I  ask,  &quot;Do  you  know  the  old  woman  who  has  tea  in  the  woods?&quot;  &quot;Marriage  is  the  coffin  of  love!  Re-  member  that.  Sex  is  a  great  and  glori-  ous  experience,  it  can't  survive  behind  bars.&quot;  He  seems  to  be  growing  a  little  tired.  &quot;Anytime  you  need  me  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;I've  been  planning  to  escape.&quot;  &quot;Excellent,  excellent.  And  so  you  should.&quot;  &quot;Can  I  come  here?&quot;  &quot;I'm  always  here,  anytime  you  need  me.  Mustn't  lose  hope,  mustn't  be  trapped.&quot;  He  seems  to  be  falling  asleep,  so  I  get  up  quietly.  &quot;Thank  you.  Thank  you  much.  I  hope  I  can  find  the  way.&quot;  &quot;Dog'll  show  you,&quot;  he  mumbles.  The  pipe  has  fallen  onto  his  chest,  where  itis  burning  a  black  hole  in  his  pullover.  I  take  it  gently  and  put  it  in  an  ashtray,  then  tiptoe  out,  shooing  the  dog  in  front  of  me,  and  close  the  door.  What  an  incredible  piece  of  luck.  No,  don'tthink  of  it  like  that,  What  a  clarion  message  from  the:  future.  What  hope,  what  security.  Supposing " b"he  does  ask  something  in  return-well,  I'll  give  it  gladly,  since  I'm  so  indebt-  ed.  At  last  I  have  a  purpose,  an  identi- ty.  I'm  not  going  to  live  my  life  in  one  sentence.  I'm  going  to  fight  great  bat-  tles,  rescue  prisoners  from  prison,  score  the  sky  with  my  poetry,  ruleas  a  be-  nevolent  and  mighty  king.  I  run  with  the  dog,  stripping  small  pieces  of  bark  from  the  apple  trees  so  thatI  will  be  able  to  find  my  way  back  if  the  dog  |  forgets.  Outside  the  orchard,  I  finda  stick  and  make  a  trail  in  the  sandy  path,  putting  heaps  of  sticks  and  pine  cones  at  each  intersection.  At  last  I  see  the  mansion  (to  my  left,  when  I  thought  it  would  be  to  my  right).  It  seems  to  be  evening,  since  the  lights  are  on.  If  I  am  late  for  dinner,  I  must  think  of  a  satisfactory  explanation  for  Gondzik;  and  carelessly  ask  him,  per-  haps,  when  he  thinks  it  will  next  be  full  moon.  I  is  too  wily)  but  work  out  for  my-  self  that  it  will  be  about  twenty-one  nights  until  the  moon  is  full.  As  I  have  no  flashlight  or  matches  (Mavis  would  get  me  matches,  but  again  I'm  too  cau-  tious  to  ask  her),  a  full  moon  will  be  necessary  if  I'm  to  find  my  way  back  to  the  gardener's  hut  by  night.  Strange  things  happen  while  I'm  waiting.  I'm  haunted,  not  by  ghosts  but  by  men.  The  first  one  comes  through  the  locked  door  behind  the  screen,  letting  himself  in  as  easily  as  though  it  were  his  own  room.  I  am  in  bed,  and  he  sits  down  in  the  rocking  chair,  smiling  at  me,  rocking  back  and  forth.  He  is  elegant,  though  rather  dishevelled.  He  looks  over  my  life  a  little,  writing  down  salient  points  in  a  small  notebook,  very  gentle  and  atten-  tive.  Then  he  kisses  me  good  night  with  a  long,  thoughtful,  exploratory  kiss.  I  lie  back,  but  he  leaves  with  his  notebook,  going  through  the  same  door.  After  a  time  of  frustration  and  longing  I  get  up  and  try  to  open  the  door.  It  is  immovable.  I  never  see  him  again.  The  next  one  appears  in  a  belvedere  in  the  gardens,  which  I  am  carefully  adding  to  the  map.  He  too  is  elegant,  but  beautifully  dressed.  Leaning  for-  ward,  elbows  on  the  creases  of  his  knees,  he  takes  my  hand,  gazing  mean-  ingfully  into  my  eyes,  speaking  in  the  soft,  beautifully  modulated  tones  of  an  actor.  Naturally,  I  fall  in  love.  He  strokes  the  back  of  my  head,  folds  me  in  his  arms,  I  slip  into  him  (I  feel)  for-  ever.  Then  he  gets  up  and  walks  easily  away,  taking  with  him  shoulders,  hips, " b"hands,  and  mouth.  I  never  see  him  again  either,  though  sometimes  he  in-  trudes  on  my  dreams.  After  this,  they  search  me  out  every  day.  I  can  see  them  coming  through  the  woods  or  along  the  path,  but  it's  some  time  before  I  learn  to  run  in  the  opposite  direction,  the  dog  barking  at  my  heels.  To  begin  with,  the  sweet-  ness  of  the  conversation  and  the  kiss  is  too  alluring.  They  promise  me  the  pleasure  of  eternal  peace,  or  the  peace   of  eternal  pleasure.  Their  mouths  are  soft,  their  bodies  graceful;  they  carry  their  entire  lives  in  the  inside  pockets  of  their  jackets,  above  the  heart.  They  allow  me  to  believe  that  they  will  stay,  and  that  I  needn't  escape  after  all.  They  don't  make  me  believe  it,  of course.  To  them  I  am  simply  a  wom-  an  they  meet  and  comfort,  kissing  me  better  before  they  continue  on  their  way.  They  aren't  responsible.  It  takes  many  such  meetings  before  I  can  con-  vince  myself  of  this,  and  then  the  slightest  shadow  on  the  horizon  and  I  am  gone,  racing  back  to  the  pool  or  the  mansion,  where  everyone  except  the  untouchables  is  ugly  and  raucous  and  trivial,  thank  God.  I  barricade  all  my  doors,  moving  three  of  my  four  dress-  ing  tables  against  them.  By  the  time  the  moon  is  full,  my  sexual  turmoil  has  become  intolerable,  I  am  tormented  with  greed;  the  torture  (at  least)  has  been  entirely  satisfactory.  So  that  by  the  time  the  night  comes,  the  idea  of  escaping  from  the  place  has  been  almost  supplanted  by  the  idea  of  escaping  to  the  gardener.  Old  and  heavy  and  outrageous  he  may  be,  but  he  believes  in  my  freedom  and  he  is  full  of  lechery  made  even  more  power-  ful  by  shame.  He  will  be  responsible  for  me,  and  has  already  promised  his  protection.  The  torture  of  the  beautiful  men  has  in  some  way  convinced  me  that  the  gardener  is  inevitable  in  the  end;  that  my  original  meeting  with  him  is  the  only  solace  I  can  remember.  There  are  very  few  preparations,  I  have  nothing  to  take  except  the  dog.  In  order  to  keep  her  quiet,  I  tie  a  hand-  kerchief  round  her  jaws,  talking  to  her  gently  meanwhile  and  stroking  her,  even  smiling  at  the  ridiculous  sight  she  presents  with  her  bandage  on.  We  wait  and  wait,  long  after  everything  is  quiet.  Holding  the  dog  byher  loose  scruff  (she  has  no  lead  or  collar),  I  cautious,  ly  open  the  one  unobstructed  door.  As  usual,  a  few  lamps  are  still  on.  The  moonlight  floods  through  the  great  stained-glass  window  on  the  stairway,  and  one  by  one,  pulling  their  slender  chains,  I  turn  out  the  lamps  in  case,  as  I  suspect,  they  are  bugging  devices.  I" b"have  the  map  under  my  arm.  Bending  to  hold  the  somewhat  bewildered  dog,  I  creep  down  the  stairs  by  the  red,  blue,  turquoise,  and  golden  light  through  the  window.  The  indoor  fountain  drips  so  loudly  and  monotonously  that  it  will  cover  the  sound  of  my  barefoot  steps.  The  door  leading  out  to  the  terrace  is  difficult;  itis  very  heavy,  and  in  order  to  slide  it  back  I  have  to  leave  go  of  the  dog,  but  the  good  creature  sits  un-  derstandingly  untilI  have  the  door  sufficiently  open  to  edge  through  it.  Terrace,  deck  chairs,  lawn,  trees,  woods  are  deep  in  moonlight.  I  look  up  at  the  mansion.  Every  window  is  dark.  I  let  the  dog  free  but  don't  untie  the  handkerchief  until  we  are  out  of  earshot.  Silent  as  swift  shadows,  we  run  across  the  grass  into  the  concealing  trees.  Now,  beginning  tofeel  frightened,  I  have  to  find  the  orchard.  After  all  this  time  my  heaps  of  sticks  and  pine  cones  have  been  scattered.  But  the  dog  trots  confidently  ahead,  taking  the  left  path,  then  the  right.  I  decide  to  trust  the  dog  rather  than  my  unreliable  map.  From  time  to  time  she  stops,  one  front  paw  lifted,  looking  back  for  me.  At  last  I  see  the  clearing,  the  orchard  grass,  the  marked  apple  trees.  The  dog  barks  once,  expecting  me  to  throw  ap-  ples,  I  suppose.  To  keep  her  quiet  I  throw  one,  she  bounds  off  into  the  shadows.  My  heartbeat  deafens  me,  my  hands  are  sweating,  my  legs  feel  heavy.  I  plod  on  until  I  see  a  light  in  the  win-  dow  ofthe  gardener's  hut,  and  the  dog,  lying  camouflaged  in  grass,  gets  up  to  lead  me  to  the  door.  Now  the  knowledge  of  the  wel-  come,  the  embrace,  the  celebration  in  that  hut  is  almost  too  much  for  me.  Can  I  endure  it?  To  be  home  at  last  is  incredible;  but  now,  finally,  I  can  be-  lieve  the  incredible.  I  touch  the  wooden  wall  of  the  hut,  tacky  with  tar;  the  rusty  drainpipe;  I  puncture  with  my  fingernail  a  blister  on  the  green  paint  of  the  door.  I  am  familiar  here.  I  can  do  what  I  like.  I  even  have  a  fancy  that  the  old  woman  may  be  somewhere  in-  side,  sleeping  by  her  tea  tray.  I  haven't  prepared  an  explanation,  because  I  know  none  is  needed.  I  knock  gently  on  the  door.  After  a  few  moments  he  opens  it,  peering  out.  I  am  smiling,  ready  to  step  inside.  The  dog,  not  caring  for  such  subtleties,  has  gone  in  already.  He  sees  me  at  last  and  says,  rather  inap-  propriately  I  think,  &quot;My  [REDACTED];  &quot;I'm  here.&quot;  He  steps  back,  and  I  enter.  In  de-  termined  gratitude,  I  put  my  arms  round  his  neck  and  pull  his  bulk  toward  " b"me.  He  unlatches  my  arms  as  though  they  were  a  collar.  Carelessly  (after  all,  there  is  all  the  time  in  the  world),  I  go  into  the  room.  The  stove  has  burned  low,  he  must  put  more  coal  on.  The  dog  is  already  lying  in  front  of  it,  quite  at  home.  I  turn,  feeling  so  light  with  relief  and  happiness  that  I  am  almost  floating.  &quot;I  escaped.  I'm  sorry  I  was  so  long,  but  I  had  to  wait  for  the  moon  so  that  I  could  see.  It  was  quite  easy.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  doing  here,  why  have  you  come,  what  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  I  laugh.  The  poor  old  gardener,  he's  quite  dismayed.  I'll  make  him  a  cup  of  cocoa,  take  care  of  him.  &quot;Why  don't  you  sit  down?  I'll  tell  you  about  it.&quot;  Now  I  have  to  seduce  him.  This  wasn't  in  my  plan  but  shouldn't  be  dif-  ficult.  He  sits  obediently,  and  I  sit  at  his  knee,  my  elbows  on  his  knees,  smiling  up  at  him.  His  stubby  hands,  which  explored  me  with  such  eager-  ness,  hang  quite  empty  on  either  side  of  the  chair.  &quot;I  did  what  you  told  me,  I  broke  out  and  I  broke  away,  I  came  to  you  to  be  free  because  I  was  so  unhappy,  I  don't  mind  about  the  riches  and  dia-  monds  and  all  that,  but  I  would  like  to  be  free  here  in  the  orchard,  and  if  you  like  I  will  stay  forever.&quot;  He  is  like  someone  on  whose  face  the  wind  has  changed:  petrified.  His  eyes  stare  open,  his  mouth  gapes,  his  rigid  nose  has  stopped  breathing.  I  kiss  him  gently,  the  kiss  of  life,  he  is  gal-  vanized.  &quot;Who  saw  you  come?&quot;  &quot;No  one.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  tell  anyone  you  were  coming?!&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not.&quot;  &quot;Does  anyone  know  you  have  been  here  before?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  He  erupts  from  the  chair,  I  fall  against  the  iron  fender.  &quot;Preposterous!&quot;  He  charges  across  the  room  and  back  again,  standing  over  me.  &quot;Preposterous!&quot;  Either  I  have  been  momentarily  stunned  or  I'm  seeing  visions:  I  see  two  yellow  butterflies  dancing  together  in  the  sunlight,  catch-as-catch-can  in  the  summer  air.  &quot;But  you  said  .  ..&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  think  my  job  here  is  worth?  Nothing?  I  work  all  day,  I  dig  and  hoe  and  rake  and  use  the  best  nat-  ural  fertilizers!  I  am  paid  a  good  sal-  ary,  do  you  hear,  a  good  salary!  I  have  this  excellent  hut  rent-free,  they  give  me  a  coal  allowance  for  my  heating  and  my  hot-water  system!  I  have  " b"worked  my  way  up  to  head  gardener,  my  tomatoes  are  the  best  in  the  coun-  try,  my  vegetable  marrows  win  valu-  able  prizes!  And  you  jeopardize  all  this  by  creeping  in  here,  by  creeping  in  here  like  a  thief  in  the  night!  Prepos-  terous!&quot;  Suddenly  calming,  he  focusses  on  me  lying  with  my  head  against  the  fender.  &quot;You  are  quite  mad,&quot;  he  says,  with  absolute  authority.  &quot;But  you  took  me  into  the  green-  house  .  ..&quot;  I  haven't  the  strength  to  go  on,  and  in  any  case  he  is  rummaging  on  the  other  side  of  the  room.  He  comes  back  with  a  hank  of  thin  rope  and  a  knife.  Breathing  heavily  now,  he  cuts  a  length  of  rope,  slams  my  legs  to-  gether  and  binds  my  ankles.  Turning  me  like  a  carcass,  he  pulls  my  arms  be-  hind  me  and  binds  my  wrists.  I  don't  cry  for  help.  I  don't  try  to  resist  him.  He  scoops  me  up  and  throws  me  face  downward  over  his  shoulder.  The  blood  runs  to  my  head,  I  am  blacking  out.  I  hear  my  voice  calling  &quot;Old  woman!  Old  woman!  Where  are  you?&quot;  Then  I  hear  a  door  slam  and  am  bumping  through  the  darkness,  hearing  his  rasping  breathing  as  he  runs.  When  I  become  conscious  again,  I  am  heaped  on  the  terrace.  There  are  blinding  lights,  the  searchlights  I  knew  about.  Squinting  up,  I  see  that  everyone  is  there:  Gondzik,  Dominic,  Rowena,  Simon,  Revlon,  the  interrupted  blonde,  all  in  a  state  of  sleepy  dishevelment.  There  is  also  someone  else,  a  man  in  pajamas  and  a  silk  dressing  gown.  I  can  tell  from  his  bare  feet,  only  a  few  inches  from  my  face,  that  he  has  been  hurriedly  summoned.  &quot;I  brought  her  straight  back,  [REDACTED];  the  gardener  is  saying,  his  voice  sweet  with  humility.  &quot;I  thought  that  was  the  right  thing  to  do,  sir.  I  thought  you  would  deal  with  her,  sir,  as  you  think  fit.  I'm  only  a  gardener,  sir,  and  I  know  my  place.&quot;  I  scream,  &quot;Where  is  the  dog?  W  here  is  the  dog?&quot;  &quot;What  dog?&quot;  the  Director  asks.  &quot;&quot;What  is  she  talking  about?&quot;  &quot;She  had  a  dog,  sir,  a  mangy  sort  of  mongrel.  It  should  be  put  down,  if  you  ask  me.&quot;  &quot;Can  you  see  to  that?&quot;  &quot;Certainly,  sir.  I  shall  see  that  it's  humane.&quot;  &quot;Very  good.  Gondzik,  will  you  take  her  to  the  West  Wing?&quot;  I  am  gathered  up  again,  though  this  time  in  Gondzik's  arms.  Cradling  me,  he  carries  me  a  long  distance.  "