 b"I HAVE been trying to get a few months off for a complete rest, too, but  I think  it's  more  important  that  Sammy  Davis  get  one.  I  feel  that  I  can  scrape  along  and  manage  some-  how,  but  Sammy  Davis  always  looks  so  strained  and  tired,  The  pressure  on  the  guy  must  be  enormous.  It  must  have  been  a  terrific  blow  to  him  when  he  switched  his  allegiance  to  Agnew  and  Nixon,  only  to  have  the  whole  thing  blow  up  in  his  face.  I  was  angry  at  him,  incidentally,  along  with  a  lot  of  other  fans  of  his,  all  of  us  feeling  he  had  sold  us  down  the  river.  But  after  I  had  thought  it  over  and  let  my  tem-  per  cool  a  bit,  I  changed  my  mind  and  actually  found  myself  standing  up  for  him,  saying  I  would  bet  anything  that  Agnew  and  Nixon  had  made  some  secret  promises  to  Sammy  about  easing  the  situation  of  blacks-ones  that  the  public  still  doesn't  know  about.  Other-  wise,  there  was  no  way  he  would  have  thrown  in  his  lot  with  that  crowd.  In  any  case,  I  would  forgive  the  guy  just  about  anything.  How  can  I  feel  any  other  way  when  I  think  of  the  pleasure  he's  given  me  over  theyears,  dancing  and  clowning  around  and  wrenching  those  songs  out  of  that  wiry  little  body?  Always  giving  his  all,  no  matter  what  the  composition  of  the  audience.  Those  years  of  struggle  with  the  Will  Mastin  Trio,  and  then  finally  making  it,  only  to  find  marital  strife  staring  him  in  the  face.  None  of  us  will  ever  be  able  to  calculate  what  it  took  out  of  him  each  time  he  had  a  falling-out  with  Frank.  Is  there  any  doubt  who  Dean  and  Joey  sided  with  on  those  occasions?  You  can  be  sure  Peter  Lawford  didn't  run  over  to  offer  Sammy  any  solace.  And  does  anyone  ever  stop  to  consider  the  spir-  itual  torment  he  must  have  suffered  when  he  made  the  switch  to  Judaism?  I  don't  even  want  to  talk  about  the  eye.  So,  if  anyone  in  the  world  does,  he  cer-  tainly  deserves  a  few  months  offfor  a  complete  rest.  Somehow,  I  have  the  feeling  that  if  I  met  Sammy,  I  could  break  through  his  agents  and  that  entourage  of  his  and  con-  vince  him  he  ought  to  take  off  with  me  and  get  the  complete  rest  he  deserves.  I  don't  want  any  ten  per  cent,  I  don't  want  any  glory;  I  just  feel  I  owe  it  to  him.  Sure  he's  got  commitments,  but  once  and  for  all  he's  got  to  stop  and  con-  sider  that  it's  one  time  around,  and  no  one  can  keep  up  that  pace  of  his  forever.  The  first  thing  I  would  do  is  get  him  HAVE  been  trying  to  get  a  few  out  of  Vegas.  There  is  absolutely  no  way  he  can  get  a  few  months'  rest  in  that  sanatorium.  I  would  get  him  away  from  Vegas,  and  I  would  certainly  steer  clear  of  Palm  Springs.  Imagine  him  riding  down  Bob  Hope  Drive  and  checking  into  a  hotel  in  the  Springs'  For  a  rest?  The  second  he  walked  into  the  lobby,  it  would  all  start.  The  chambermaids  would  ask  him  to  do  a  chorus  of  &quot;What  Kind  of  Fool  Am  I,&quot;right  in  the  lobby,  and,  knowing  Sammy  and  his  big  heart,  he  would  probably  oblige.  I  think  I  would  take  him  to  my  place  in  New  York,  a  studio.  We  would  have  to  eat  in,  be-  cause  if  I  ever  showed  up  with  Sammy  Davis  at  the  Carlton  Delicatessen,  where  I  have  my  breakfast,  the  roof  would  fallin.  The  owner  would  ask  him  for  anautographed  picture  to  hang  up  next  to  Dustin  Hoffman's,  and  those  rich  young  East  Side  girls  would  go  to  town  on  him.  If  they  ever  saw  me  walk  in  with  Sammy  Davis,  that  would  be  the  end  of  his  complete  rest.  They  would  attack  him  like  vultures,  and  Sammy  would  be  hard  put  to  turn  his  back  on  them,  because  they're  not  broads.  We  would  probably  wind  up  order-  ing  some  delicatessen  from  the  Stage,  although  I'm  not  so  sure  that's  a  good  idea;  the  delivery  boy  would  recognize  him,  and  the  next  thing  you  know,  Sammy  would  give  him  a  C  note,  and  word  would  get  back  to  Alan  King  that  Sammy  had  ducked  into  town.  How  would  it  look  if  he  didn't  drop  over  to  the  Stage  and  show  himself?  Next  thing  you  know,  the  news  would  reach  Jilly's,  and  if  Frank  was  in  tow  n-well,  you  can  imagine  how  much  rest  Sammy  would  get.  I  don't  know  if  they're  feuding  these  days,  but  you  know  perfectly  well  that,  at  minimum,  Frank  would  send  over  a  purebred  Afghan.  Even  if  they  were  feuding.  I  think  what  we  would  probably  do  is  lay  low  and  order  a  lot  of  Chinese  food.  I  have  a  hunch  that  Sammy  can  eat  Chinese  takeout  food  every  night  of  the  week.  I  know  I  can,  and  the  Chi-  nese  takeout  delivery  guys  are  very  discreet.  So  we  would  stay  at  my  place.  d  give  him  the  sleeping  loft,  and  I'd  throw  some  sheets  on  the  couch  down-  stairs  for  me.  I  would  do  that  for  Sammy  to  pay  him  back  for  all  the  joy  he's  given  me  down  through  the  years.  And  I  would  resist  the  temptation  to  ask  him  to  sing,  even  though  I  would  flip  out  if  he  so  much  as  started  hum-  ming.  Can  you  imagine  him  humming  &quot;The  Candy  Man&quot;?  In  my  epart-  ment?  Let's  not  even  discuss  it.  Another  reason  I  would  give  him  the  sleeping  loft  is  that  there  is  no  phone  up  there.  I  would  try  like  the  devil  to  keep  him  away  from  the  phone,  because  I  know  the  second  he  saw  one  he  would  start  thinking  about  his  commitments,  " b"and  it  would  be  impossible  for  the  guy  not  to  make  at  least  one  call  to  the  Coast.  So  I'd  just  try  to  keep  him  com-  fortable  for  as  long  as  possible,  although  pretty  soon  my  friends  would  begin  wondering  what  ever  happened  to  me,  and  it  would  take  all  the  willpower  in  the  world  not  to  let  on  that  I  had  Sam-  my  Davis  in  my  loft  and  was  giving  him  a  complete  rest.  DON'T  kid  myself  thatI  could  keep  Sammy  Davis  happy  in  my  loft  for  a  full  couple  of  months.  He  would  be  lying  on  the  bed,  his  frail  muscular  body  looking  lost  in  a  pair  of  boxer  shorts,  and  before  long  I  would  hear  those  fingers  snapping,  and  I  would  know  that  the  wiry  little  great  enter-  tainer  was  feeling  penned  up,  and  it  would  be  inhuman  to  expect  him  to  stay  there  any  longer.  I  think  that  when  I  sensed  that  Sammy  was  straining  at  the  leash,  I  would  rent  a  car-a  Ford  [REDACTED]  (that  would  be  a  switch  for  him,  riding  in  a  Middle  American  car)-  and  we  would  ride  out  to  my  sister  and  brother-in-law's  place  in  [REDACTED].  He  would  probably  huddle  down  in  the  seat,  but  somehow  I  have  the  feeling  that  people  in  passing  cars  would  spot  him.  We'd  be  lucky  if  they  didn't  crash  into  telephone  poles.  And  if  I  know  Sammy,  whenever  someone  recognized  him  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  resist  taking  off  his  shades  and  graciously  blowing  them  a  kiss.  The  reason  I  would  take  Sammy  to   my  sister  and  brother-in-law's  house  is  not  only  that  it's  out  of  the  way  but  also  because  they're  simplepeople  and  would  not  hassle  him-especially  my  brother-in-law.  My  sister  would  stand  there  with  her  hands  on  her  hips,  and  when  she  saw  me  get  out  of  the  Ford  with  Sammy,  she  would  cluck  her  tongue  and  say,  &quot;'There  goes  my  crazy  brother  again,&quot;  but  she  would  appear  calm  on  the  surface,  even  though  she  would  be  fainting  dead  away  on  the  in-  side.  She  would  say  something  like  &quot;Oh,  my  God,  I  didn't  even  clean  the  floors,&quot;  but  then  Sammy  would  give  her  a  big  hug  and  a  kiss,  and  I'm  sure  that  he  would  make  a  call,  and  a  few  weeks  later  she  would  have  a  complete  new  dining-room  set,  the  Baby  Grand  she  always  wanted,  and  a  puppy.  She  would  put  Sammy  up  in  her  son's  room  (he's  away  at  graduate  school),  saying  she  wished  she  had  something  better,  but  he  would  say,  &quot;Honey,  this  is  just  perfect.&quot;  And  he  would  mean  it,  too,  in  a  way,  my  neph-  ew's  bedroom  being  an  interesting  change  from  those  $1,000-a-day  suites  at  the  Tropicana.  My  brother-in-law  has  a  nice  easygoing  style  and  would  be  relaxing  company  for  Sammy,  except  that  Al  does  work  in  television  and  there  would  be  a  temptation  on  his  part  totalk  about  the  time  he  did  the  &quot;Don  Rickles  Show&quot;  and  how  different  and  sweet  a  guy  Don  is  when  you  get  him  offstage.  If  I  know  Sammy,  he  would  place  a  call  to  C.B.S.-with  no  urging  from  any  of  us-and  see  to  it  that  Al  got  to  work  on  his  next  special.  If  the  network  couldn't  do  a  little  thing  like  that  for  him,  the  hell  with  them,  he  would  get  himself  another  network.  Sammy's  that  kind  of  guy.  One  danger  is  that  my  sister,  by  this  time,  would  be  going  out  of  her  mind  and  wouldn't  be  able  to  resist  asking  Sammy  if  she  could  have  a  few  neigh-  bors  over  on  a  Saturday  night.  Let's  face  it,  it  would  be  the  thrill  of  a  life-  time  for  her.  I  would  intercede  right  there,  because  it  wouldn't  be  fair  to  the  guy,  but  if  I  know  Sammy  he  would  tell  her,  &quot;Honey,  you  go  right  ahead.&quot;  She  would  have  a  mixed  group  over-  Italians,  an  Irish  couple,  some  Jews,  about  twelve  people  tops-and  she  would  wind  up  having  the  evening  catered,  which  of  course  would  lead  to  a  commotion  when  she  tried  to  pay  for  the  stuff.  No  way  Sammy  would  let  her  do  that.  He  would  buy  out  the  whole  delicatessen,  give  the  delivery  guy  a  C  note,  and  probably  throw  in  an  autographed  glossy  without  being  asked.  Everyone  at  the  party  would  pretend  to  be  casual,  as  if  Sammy  Davis  wasn't  there,  but  before  long  the  Irish  space  salesman's  wife  (my  sister's  crazy  friend,  and  what  a  flirt  she  is)  would  somehow  manage  to  ask  him  to  sing,  and  imagine  Sammy  saying  no  in  a  situation  like  that.  Everyone  would  say  just  one  song,  but  that  bighearted  son  of  a  gun  would  wind  up  doing  his  entire  repertoire,  probably  putting  out  every  bit  as  much  as  he  does  when  he  opens  at  the  Sands.  He  would  do  it  all-&quot;The  Candy  Man,&quot;  &quot;What  Kind  of  Fool  Am  I,&quot;  tap-dance,  play  the  drums  with  chopsticks  on  an  end  table,  do  some  riffs  on  my  nephew's  old  trumpet,  and  work  himself  into  ex-  haustion.  The  sweat  would  be  pouring  out  of  him,  and  he  would  top  the  whole  thing  off  with  &quot;This  Is  My  Life&quot;  (&quot;and  I  don't  give  a  damn&quot;).  Of  course,  his  agents  on  the  Coast  would  pass  out  cold  if  they  ever  got  wind  of  the  way  he  was  putting  out  for  twelve  nobodies  in  [REDACTED].  But  as  for  Sammy,  he  never  did  know  anything  about  halfway  measures.  He  either  works  or  he  doesn't,  and  he  would  use  every  ounce  of  en-  ergy  in  that  courageous  little  show-biz  body  of  his  to  see  to  it  that  my  sister's  friends-that  mixedgroup  of  Italians,  Irish,  and  Jews-had  a  night  they'd  never  forget  as  long  as  they  lived.  F  course,  that  would  blow  the  two  months  of  complete  rest,  and  I  would  have  to  get  him  out  of  [REDACTED]  fast.  By  that  time,  frankly,  I  would  " b"be  running  out  of  options.  Once  in  a  while,  I  pop  down  to  [REDACTED]  Rico  for  a  three-  or  four-day  holiday,  but,  let's  face  it,  if  I  showed  up  in  San  Juan  with  Sam-  my,  first  thing  you  know,  we  would  be  hounded  by  broads,  catching  the  show  at  the  Flamboyan,  and  Dick  Shawn  would  be  asking  Sammy  to  hop  up  onstage  and  do  a  medley  from  &quot;Mr.  Wonderful.&quot;  (He  was  really  something  in  that  show,  battling  Jack  Carter  tooth  and  nail,  but  too  gracious  to  use  his  bigger  name  to  advantage.)  Another  possibility  would  be  to  take  Sammy  out  to  see  a  professor  friend  of  mine  who  teaches  modern  lit.  at  San  Francisco  State  and  would  be  only  too  hap-  py  to  take  us  in.  That  would  represent  a  complete  change  for  Sammy,  a  col-  lege  campus,  but  as  soon  as  the  school  got  wind  he  was  around,  I'll  bet  you  ten  to  one  they  would  ask  him  to  speak  either  to  a  film  class  or  the  drama  department  or  even  a  political-science  group.  And  he  would  wind  up  shocking  them  with  his  expertise  on  the  Founding  Fathers  and  the  philosophy  behind  the  Bill  of  Rights.  The  guy  reads,  and  I'm  not  talking  about  &quot;The  Bette  Davis  Story.&quot;  Anyone  who  sells  Sammy  Davis  short  as  an  intellectual  is  taking  his  life  in  his  hands.  In  the  end,  Sammy  and  I  would  probably  end  up  in  [REDACTED],  where  a  financial-consultant  friend  of  mine  has  a  cabin  that  he  never  uses.  He  al-  ways  says  to  me,  &quot;It's  there,  for  God's  sakes-use  it.&quot;  So  I  would  take  Sammy  up  there,  away  from  it  all,  but  I  wouldn't  tell  the  financial  consultant  who  I  was  taking,  because  the  second  he  heard  it  was  Sammy  Davis  he  would  want  to  come  along.  Sammy  and  I  would  start  out  by  going  into  town  for  a  week's  worth  of  supplies  at  the  gener-  al  store,  and  then  we  would  hole  up  in  the  cabin.  I'm  not  too  good  at  me-  chanical  things,  but  we  would  be  sort  of  roughing  it,  and  there  wouldn't  be  much  to  do  except  chop  some  firewood,  which  I  would  take  care  of  while  Sam-  my  was  getting  his  complete  rest.  I  don't  know  how  long  we  would  last  in  [REDACTED].  Frankly,  I  would  worry  after  a  while  about  being  able  to  keep  him  entertained,  even  though  he  would  be  there  for  a  complete  rest.  We  could  talk  a  little  about  Judaism,  but,  frankly,  I  would  be  skating  on  thin  ice  in  that  area,  since  I  don't  have  the  formal  training  he  has  or  any  real  knowledge  of  theology.  The  [REDACTED]  woodswould  probably  start  us  batting  around  theories  about  the  mystery  of  existence,  but  to  tell  the  truth,  I'd  be  a  little  bit  out  of  my  depth  in  that  de-  partment,  too.  He's  had  so  much  ex-  perience  on  panel  shows,  and  I  would  just  as  soon  not  go  one-on-one  with  him  on  that  topic.  Let's  not  kid  around,  I  would  get  tenseaftera  while,  and  Sammy  would  feel  it.  He  would  be  too  good  a  guy  to  let  on  that  he  was  bored,  but  pretty  soon  he  would  start  snapping  those  fin-  gers  and  batting  out  tunes  on  the  back  of  an  old  Saturday  Evening  Post  or  something,  and  I  think  I  would  crack  after  a  while  and  say,  &quot;Sammy,  I  tried  my  best  to  supply  you  with  a  cou-  ple  of  months  of  complete  rest,  but  I'm  running  out  of  gas.&quot;  He  would  tap  me  on  the  shoulder  and  say,  &quot;Don't  worry  about  it,  babe,&quot;  and  then,  so  as  not  to  hurt  my  feelings,  he  would  say  he  wanted  to  go  into  town  to  get  some  toothpaste.  So  he  would  drive  in,  with  the  eye  and  all,  and  I  know  damned  well  the  first  thing  he  would  do  is  call  his  agents  on  the  Coast  and  ask  them  to  read  him  the  &quot;N.Y.  to  L.A.&quot;  column  of  a  few  Varieties.  Next  thing  you  know,  I  would  bedriving  him  to  the  airport,  knowing  in  my  heart  that  I  hadn't  really  succeeded.  He  would  tell  me  that  any  time  I  got  to  the  Coast  or  Vegas  or  the  Springs,  and  I  wanted  anything,  anything,  just  make  sure  to  give  him  a  ring.  And  the  following  week,  I  would  receive  a  freezer  and  a  videotape  machine  and  a  puppy.  So  I  think  I'm  just  not  the  man  to  get  Sammy  Davis  the  complete  rest  he  needs  so  desperately.  However,  I  cer-  tainly  think  someone  should.  How  long  can  he  keep  driving  that  tortured  little  frame  of  his,  pouring  every  ounce  of  his  strength  into  the  entertainment  of  Americans?  I  know,  I  know-there's  [REDACTED]  and  Watergate,  and,  believe  me,  I  haven't  forgotten  our  own  dis-  advantaged  citizens.  I  know  all  that.  But  when  you  think  of  all  the  joy  that  man  has  spread  through  his  night-club  appearances,  his  albums,  his  autobiogra-  phy,  his  video  specials,  and  even  his  movies,  which  did  not  gross  too  well  but  were  a  lot  better  than  people  realized,  and  the  things  he's  done  not  only  for  his  friends  but  for  a  lot  of  causes  the  public  doesn't  know  about-when  you  think  of  all  that  courageous  little  enter-  tainer  has  given  to  this  land  of  ours,  and  then  you  read  that  he's  trying,  re-  peat  trying,  to  get  a  few  months  offfor  a  complete  rest  and  he  can't,  well,  then,  all  I  can  say  is  that  there's  something  basically  rotten  in  the  system.  "