 b"I  MET  Erika's  sloth  quite  by  chance.  Actually,  I  met  Erika  herself  by  chance  one  Saturday.  She  lived  in  a  different  partof  [REDACTED]  from  me,  and  the  only  reason  I  was  over  in  her  section  of  the  city  was  that  I  had  gone  to  deliver  a  plant  to  an  office  col-  league  of  my  husband's  who  was  sick.I  knew  where  she  lived,  because  my  mother  had  written  from  [REDACTED]  and  sent  me  her  address,  but  I  hadn't  looked  her  up.  I  had  known  her  years  before  in  [REDACTED].  Erika  had  come  to  England  from  [REDACTED],  in  1946,  under  an  adoption  scheme  sponsored  by  the  Red  Cross.  She  was  eleven  years  old  then,  and  her  background  was  a  sad  one.  She  was  an  only  child,  and  bothher  parents  had  been  killed  in  a  street  riot  in  Heidel-  berg;  her  father  had  been  a  professor  in  the  science  school  of  the  university  there.  The  English  couple  who  adopted  Erika  were  next-door  neighbors  of  an  aunt  of  mine  in  Ealing.  Their  name  was  Bullen.  Peter  Bullen  worked  at  the  Home  Office,  and  he  and  his  wife,  Edith,  were  very  active  in  local  com-  munity  affairs-the  Ealing  hospital,  the  Y,  and  so  on.  They  were  both  cheerful,  generous  people,  and  part  of  the  reason  they  offered  Erika  a  home,  I  think,  was  that  their  own  two  daughters  were  grown  and  married,  and  they  wanted  to  have  someone  young  around  the  house  again.  It  took  nearly  a  year  before  all  the  formalities  connected  with  the  adoption  were  completed,  and  during  that  time  Erika  waited  in  a  Heidelberg  orphan-  age.  The  Bullens  wrote  frequently  and  sent  snapshots  of  themselves  and  the  Ealing  house  and  garden,  their  daugh-  ters,  their  daughters'  husbands  and  the  one  grandchild,  their  overfed  spaniel,  Crumpet,  and  their  three  cats.  Erika  responded  with  neatly  written  lettersin  stilted,  correct  English  and,  after  being  pressured  for  it,  a  photograph,  faded,  showing  a  thin  little  girl  with  a  long  face,  large  eyes,  and  shoulder-length,  straight  black  hair.  She  was  not  a  pret-  ty  child.  Her  eyes  were  her  bestfea-  ture;  she  had  one  of  those  short  upper  lips  that  expose  the  front  teeth  and  give  the  face  a  wary,  ferrety  look.  When  the  time  came  for  the  Bullens  to  take  delivery  of  Erika  (they  met  her  at  Waterloo  Station  and  signed  for  her  at  the  Red  Cross  office  as  if  she  were  a  parcel),  they  realized  at  once  that  the  snapshot  was  a  good  likeness.  Erika's  personality  fitted  her  picture:  she  was  grave,  obedient,  watchful,  and  aloof.  The  Bullens  consoled  themselves  with  the  thought  that  once  established  in  Ealing  and  fed  Edith's  cooking  fora  few  weeks  Erika  would  fill  out  and  re-  lax  and  soon  become  as  loving,  outgo-  ing,  and  delightful  as  their  own  children  had  been.  They  were  mistaken.  But  they  had  done  some  conscientious  read-  ing,  and  they  knew  that  it  is  possible  for  affection  to  be  damaged  and  retard-  ed  and  that  they  must  give  Erika  time.  What  was  hard  on  them,  and  especially  hard  on  the  warmhearted,  demonstra-  tive  Edith,  was  that  the  Red  Cross  never  told  them-if,  indeed,  the  Red  Cross  knew-exactly  what  the  destructive  cir-  cumstances  in  Erika's  life  had  been.  All  they  knew  was  that  the  silent  child  who  had  joined  their  family  was  alive  in  a  quite  different  way  from  themselves.  The  Bullens  persevered.  They  cor-  ralled  their  neighbors,  including  my  aunt,  to  help  settle  Erika  in.  I  was  a  student  at  [REDACTED]  University  at  the  time,  and,  as  I  often  went  to  Sunday  lunch  in  Ealing,  I  was  corralled  also.  One  Sunday  it  was  suggested  that  I  introduce  Erika  to  the  [REDACTED]  Zoo.  I  wasn't  keen.  Erika  to  date  hadn't  shown  any  interest  in  animals-she  avoided  fat  Crumpet  and  the  eats,  and  when  Peter  said  something  about  buy-  inghera  puppy  of  her  own  she  had  merely  looked  alarmed.  However,  the  proposal  made  better  sense  than  it  sounds  because  my  parents  were  mem-  bers  of  the  [REDACTED]  Zoological  Society,  and  at  that  time  (I  don't  know  what  the  regulations  are  now)  this  meant  that  if  the  keepers  weren't  busy  one  could  sometimes  go  behind  the  scenes  and  handle  the  animals.  It  takes  about  an  hour  to  go  by  bus  from  Ealing  to  Regent's  Park,  where  the  zoo  is,  and  Erika  and  I  made  the  journey  in  almost  complete  si-  lence.  She  wasn't  a  child  thatI  took  to,  and  I  had  growing-up  problems  of  my  own  to  occupy  my  mind.  The  visit  wasn't  a  complete  failure,  though.  Erika  seemed  to  be  fascinated.  Moving  slow-  ly  from  cage  to  cage,  she  subjected  whatever  was  living  on  the  other  side  of  the  bars  or  wire  or  glass  to  the  closest  scrutiny.  At  one  point,  a  keeper  asked  if  the  little  lady  would  like  to  tickle  a  sloth  behind  its  ear.  The  little  lady  shook  her  head,  so  the  cage  was  unlocked  for  me  and  I  did  the  tickling.  After  that,  Erika  and  I  went  to  the  zoo  quite  often.  We  never  became  what  you  could  call  communicative,  but  we  did  have  our  visits  to  the  zoo  as  one  point  of  contact,  and  Erika  got  to  where  she  would  occasionally  agree  to  touch  or  hold  an  animal.  I  remember  waiting  nearly  anhour  one  damp  Sun-day  while  Erika  helped  a  keeper  feed  a  jar  of  apple  custard  to  a  very  small  and  shy  chimpanzee.  Erika  had  arrived  in  England  in  May,  and  the  following  September  the  Bullens  puther  in  school.  They  chose  a  large  place  with  a  high  academic  reputation,  where  foreign-born  students  were  encouraged,  thinking  that  Erika  would  feel  less  conspicuous  there  and  find  it  easier  to  make  friends  than  at  the  small  school  to  which  they  had  sent  their  own  daughters.  They  were  mis-  taken  again.  Erika  made  herself  con-  spicuous  at  once  by  moving  to  the  top  of  her  class  and  remaining  there,  and  she  neither  made  nor  seemed  to  want  to  make  any  friends.  I  don't  remember  when  it  was  that  Erika  and  Ilost  touch,  but  before  I  finished  at  the  university  my  aunt  sold  her  house  in  Ealing  and  retired  to  a  small  town  in  Surrey,  on  the  edge  of  the  New  Forest.  Our  zoo  trips  had  stopped  a  while  before  that,  and  any  news  I  received  of  Erika  came  at  long  intervals.  From  her  [REDACTED]  school  she  went  on  to  [REDACTED],  and  then  to  [REDACTED]  as  a  Henry  Fellow.  She  got  a  Ph.D.  in  zoology  from  Yale.  N  time,  I  married  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  and  my  husband  and  I  had  been  living  in  [REDACTED]  for  several  years  when  my  mother  wrote  to  say  that  Erika  was  working  nearby:  she  had  a  job  with  the  Smithsonian  Institution.  I  was  curious  to  see  her  again,  but  in  view  of  our  past  relationship  I  thought  I  would  leave  it  to  her  to  make  the  first  move-she  had  been  given  our  address,  Mother  said.  From  what  else  she  said,  I  gathered  that  Erika  hadn't  changed  much.  &quot;Do  see  what  you  can  do  to  persuade  Erika  to  write  to  those  poor  dear  Bullens,&quot;  she  wrote.  &quot;They're  so  proud  of  what  she's  done  with  herself,  and  they  really  know  nothing  about  her  life.&quot;  I  wondered  if  I  would  rec-  ognize  Erika  if  I  saw  her  again,  but  when  I  did  I  knew  her  at  once.  We  ran  into  each  other  on  Capitol  Hill  outside  her  apartment  house-I  coming  out  aft-  er  delivering  my  plant,  and  she  going  in.  She  looked  exactly  as  I  would  have  expected  her  to  look  at  thirty-five:  neat,  capable,  unassuming,  and  remote.  She  wore  a  black  suit,  a  white  blouse,  low-  heeled  walking  shoes,  and  a  shoulder  bag  that  left  her  hands  free  for  carry-  ing  two  big  bags  of  groceries.  She  hesi-  tated  when  she  saw  me,  then  recovered  herself  and  smiled  as  I  took  one  of  the  grocery  bags.  &quot;I'm  afraid  I'm  on  the  third  floor,&quot;  she  said.  It  was  an  old  building,  a  Victorian  lns  " b"house  that  had  been  converted,  and  we  climbed  the  stairs.  We  didn't  talk  (picking  up  just  where  we  had  left  off,  I  thought),  and  I  decided  that  even  if  Erika  asked  me  to  I  wouldn't  turn  this  into  a  visit-I  would  put  thegroceries  down  and  leave.  I  didn't  quite  manage  that,  though  I  don't  think  I  was  in  the  apartment  for  more  than  five  minutes.  What  de-  layed  me  was  the  sight  of  a  sloth.  I  saw  him  the  moment  she  unlocked  her  front  door;  the  door  into  her  bedroom  was  standing  open,  and  there  he  was,  sus-  pended  from  the  bottom  rail  of  her  metal  bedstead,  fast  asleep.  The  front  door  opened  into  the  liv-  ing  room,  and  now  I  noticed  two  other  animals.  Each  was  in  a  small  crate  with  a  chicken-wire  front.  One  was  a  gold-  en  marmoset  and  the  other  was  what  I  took  to  be  a  porcupine  (it  was  lying  down).  The  room,  sparsely  furnished  and  spotlessly  clean,  was  very  warm  and  had  a  faint  odor  of  antiseptic.  As  we  walked  across  it--thekitchen  was  at  the  far  end-I  saw  that  the  marmo-  set's  tail  was  in  a  white  cast  about  the  diameter  of  a  cigarette,  though  longer.  The  creature's  leonine  face  was  puck-  ered  with  rage.  It  clung  desperately  to  the  wire  netting  with  its  hooked  claws,  as  if  it  were  in  pain  and  the  netting  were  life.  The  echidna-that's  what  the  other  animal  was,  Erika  ex-  plained,  not  a  porcupine-merely  lay  with  its  eyes  closed,  seeming  to  be  waiting  for  whatever  was  hurting  it  to  go  away.  Before  she  unpacked  the  groceries  or  took  any  further  notice  of  me,  Erika  attended  to  her  patients.  She  didn't  open  their  cages  or  speak  to  them--just  stood  close  to  them,  as  one  might  stand  beside  a  hospital  bed,  offering  the  oc-  cupant  one's  silence  when  all  that  can  be  done  has  been  done.  The  marmoset  chattered  and  rattled  his  wire,  his  eyes  fiercely  alert  and  his  minute  fangs  bared.  The  echidna  neither  opened  its  eyes  nor  moved,  and  presently  Erika  came  back  intothe  kitchen  and  began  putting  her  food  away.  I  am  sure  that  if  I  had  left  the  apart-  ment  then  she  wouldn't  have  been  aware  of  the  fact.  Her  face  wore  the  same  brooding  look  of  concentration  that  I  remembered  from  Regent's  Park.  But  I  had  to  know  what  she  was  doing,  and  so,  for  the  first  time  since  I  had  known  her,I  asked  questions.  She  explained  that  her  department  at  the  Smithsonian  was  the  National  Zoo,  where  she  had  charge  of  sick  or  abandoned  animals.  During  the  week,  she  kept  them  in  a  small  hospital  on  the  zoo  grounds,  but  on  the  weekends  she  brought  them  home  with  her;  the  land-  lord  hadn't  approved  at  first,  but  she  had  satisfied  him  that  her  patients   would  not  cause  any  trouble,  that  he  would  not  know  they  were  there.  But  what  about  the  sloth,  I  asked.  He  wasn't  sick,  was  he?  Well,  no.  The  sloth  wasn't  sick.  He  had  been  abandoned  by  his  mother  at  birth.  After  his  first  weekend  on  the  bedrail,  he  had  seemed  so  comfortable  thatthe  director  had  said  he  might  stay  temporarily,  and  now,  Erika  hoped,  he  had  been  forgotten.  Peering  at  me,  she  added  the  information  that  the  creature  was  no  problem:  sloths  urinated  only  once  a  week.  Did  he  ever  do  anything  except  sleep  on  the  bedrail,  I  asked.  Did  he  know  her?  Yes,  indeed,  Erika  assured  me.  He  not  only  knew  her,  but  hecould  tell  the  time.  Every  day  at  five,  he  moved  from  the  bedrail  to  the  handle  of  the  front  door.  When  she  came  home  and  turned  the  handle,  the  sloth  fell  off  and  awoke.  That  way  he  knew  she  was  home.  I  took  my  leave  then.  Neither  Erika  nor  I  proposed  another  meeting,but  the  next  day  I  wrote  to  the  Bullens.  I  told  them  about  running  into  Erika  and  everything  I  had  learned  of  the  work  she  was  doing,  and  I  hope  made  her  sound  as  useful  and  valuable  a  member  of  the  Smithsonian  staff  as  I  am  sure  she  was.  I  described  her  apart-  ment  and  enlarged  my  brief  stop  into  a  more  considerable  visit.  I  stressed  the  fact  that  her  responsibilities  involved  her  evenings  as  well  as  her  days.  I  didn't  say  anything  about  the  sloth,  though.  I  tried,  but  I  didn't  know  how  to  convey  to  jocund,  ebullient  Edith  that  Erika  had  found  a  relationship  with  demands  so  slight  that  she  needn't  be  afraid  of  them:  a  fragile,  barely  ex-  pressed,  tentative  association  for  which  even  the  word  &quot;velleity&quot;&quot;  seemed  too  dramatic.  I  wanted  her  to  understand  that  Erika's  neglect  of  them  did  not  stem  from  a  lack  of  regard  but  was  simply  the  result  of  a  wound-a  sense  of  abandonment-that  had  never  prop-  erly  healed.  Edith  wrote  back  at  once.  She  and  Peter  had  been  so  reassured  by  my  let-  ter.  They  could  now  believe  and  tell  their  friends  what  they  wanted  to  be-  lieve  and  tell  their  friends:  that  Erika  was  successful,  happy,  valued,  and  busy-too  busy,  in  fact,  to  write."