 b"ABOUT  six  miles  west  of  Great  Barrington,  [REDACTED],  a  man  of  twenty-one  years  stands  beside  a  dead  and  fallen  apple  tree  on  the  edge  of  a  field  of  snow.  His  name  is  David.  He  has  beenchopping  the  tree  up  for  firewood,  but  now  he  is  stand-  ing  and  resting,  leaning  on  his  axe.  He  breathes  heavily  and  evenly,  making  white  clouds  in  the  frigid  January  air.  He  looks  down  at  the  axe  and  real-  izes  for  the  first  time  that  it  is  the  same  one  he  gashed  his  foot  with  thirteen  years  before.  It  was  in  the  summer-  time-one  of  the  many  vacations  and  holidays  he  spent  at  his  uncle's  farm  as  a  child.  He  had  sneaked  off  to  the  woodshed  after  hearing  his  uncle  say  that  some  logs  needed  splitting.  David  had  been  barefoot,  and  he  remembers  blood  pouring  out  of  his  wound  as  if  some  spring  had  been  opened.  He  imagines  blood  on  the  snow  and  shud-  ders  slightly.  He  also  remembers  that  in  the  fall  his  brother  Mark  used  to  climb  the  apple  tree,  which  was  old  even  then,  and  wait  for  him  to  pass  by  underneath,  so  that  he  could  throw  apples  at  him.  In  front  of  him,  across  the  field,  stands  a  huge  red  barn,  where  his  uncle  used  to  keep  more  than  a  thousand  nesting  chickens.  David  gathered  eggs  from  the  barn  when  he  was  much  younger.  The  barn  is  empty  now,  ex-  cept  for  an  old  hay  wagon  left  from  before  his  uncle  bought  the  place,  forty  years  ago.  In  back  of  him  is  his  un-  cle's  farmhouse,  painted  the  same  dark  red  as  the  barn.  Part  of  the  house  was  built  in  the  early  seventeen-hundreds.  Inside,  itis  decorated  with  Mexican  paintings  and  sarapes.  A  few  of  the  paintings  are  by  the  radical  artist  Si-  queiros,  who  was  a  friend  of  the  uncle's  during  his  activist  days  in  the  thirties  and  forties.  David  looks  up  again,  bevond  the  field,  past  the  barn,  to  white  mountains  across  the  valley.  The  stillness  is  bro-  ken,  for  a  few  seconds  here  and  there,  by  brittle  gusts  of  wind  in  the  trees,  whose  twigs  click  and  snap  like  thou-  sands  of  sparrow  bones.  Light  snow  be-  gins  to  fall,  and  he  goes  back  to  his  work.  DAVID\xe2\x80\x99S  uncle  had  been  helping  with  the  chopping  earlier  in  the  after-  noon,  but  the  cold  and  his  seventy-sev-  en  years  allowed  him  only  a  few  hours  of  hard  work.  Since  the  beginning  of  October,  when  David  left  his  parents'  apartment  in  [REDACTED]  and  came  to  stay  at  the  farmhouse,  the  two  men  have  repaired  the  slate  roof,  replaced  the  water  heater,  almost  filled  the  woodshed  with  firewood,  painted  some  of  the  bedrooms  upstairs,  and  shored  up  the  outbuildings.  Now,  as  dusk  falls,  the  uncle  sits  in  front  of  the  fire  in  the  living  room,  reading  the  Daily  World.  Everything  is  silent  except  for  the  rhythmic  thunk  of  the  axe  outside.  Directly  above  him  hangs  a  portrait  of  his  motherand  fa-  ther,  who  died  within  two  months  of  each  other  fifteen  years  ago,  both  well  into  their  nineties.  The  father's  features-a  large  Jewish  nose,  a  kind,  open  expression,  and  clear  blue  eyes  are  repeated  in  the  son's  face  and  in  the  gaunt  face  of  the  grandson  outside.  But  David  stands  six  feet  one,  taller  by  seven  inches  than  his  uncle  and  grand-  father.  OW  it  is  four-thirty  and  near-  ly  dark.  David  joins  his  uncle  before  the  fire.  They  talk  for  a  while  about  the  day's  news.  The  uncle  has  become  outraged  by  corruption  in  [REDACTED]  and  tries  to  explain  to  his  nephew  that  in  a  true  Socialist  system,  whose  advent  in  [REDACTED]  he  considers  imminent  and  inevitable,  such  things  could  never  happen.  David  calls  his  uncle  an  incorrigible  utopian  and  says  that  people  are  people  and  that  gov-  ernments  will  always  be  corrupt.  This  elicits  a  long  talk  from  the  uncle  about  Marxism-Leninism  and  the  dialectic  in  history.  The  young  man,  only  half  listen-  ing,  marvels  at  the  old  man's  passion  and  conviction,  even  though  they  de-  rive  more  from  dogma  than  from  rea-  son.  He  takes  a  sort  of  comfort  from  his  uncle's  physical  and  philosophical  endurance,  from  the  familiarity  of  his  ideas,  like  good  old  clothes.  From  the  time  he  was  very  small,  David  can  re-  member  his  uncle's  voice  rising  with  enthusiasm  as  he  tried  to  make  con-  verts  on  chilly  September  evenings  in  front  of  the  fireplace.  The  house,  too,  creaking  every  now  and  then  as  if  to  gird  itself  against  the  storm  gathering  around  it,  seems  comforting  in  its  age  and  soundness.  EFORE  supper,  David  goes  up-  stairs  to  shower  and  take  a  nap.  He  dreams  that  he  is  back  in  his  par-  ents'  apartment.  It  is  midnight  in  the  dream,  and  a  strong  wind  is  blowing  millions  of  still-green  leaves  from  the  trees  in  Central  Park.  There  is  a  knock  at  the  door.  His  mother  opens  it,  and  his  brother  Mark  enters.  Everyone  is  " b"overjoyed  to  see  him.  He  has  been  on  some  great  journey,  and  he  has  brought  gifts.  To  David  he  gives  a  silver  knife  whose  blade  pulses  with  colors;  to  his  fa-  ther  he  gives  gemlike  crystals  that  emanate  an  intermittent  keening  sound;  to  his  mother  he  gives  a  nest  made  of  carpenter's  nails  inside  of  which  sits  one  blood-  red  egg.  Mark  sits  down  on  a  couch,  exhausted.  He  falls  into  a  deep  sleep.  David  and  his  parents  become  concerned  and  try  to  rouse  him.  Final-  ly,  they  sense  some  hor-  rifying  presence  waiting  at  the  door.  David  knows  nothing  about  it  except  that  gray  mist  envelops  it.  Mark  awakens.  He  stands  up  and  stretches,  and  sm  les  warmly.  David  is  astonished  by  the  white-  ness  and  evenness  of  his  brother's  teeth.  Mark  shakes  hands  with  his  family,  David  last.  He  walks  toward  the  door,  where  the  grisly  escort  waits  for  him.  David  wonders  at  his  brother's  bravery  'to  consort  with  such  a  one  as  that,&quot;  as  he  says  to  himself  in  the  dream.  He  wakes  up  terrified  and  shaking.  UPPER  is  a  thick  beef  stew  and  red  Spanish  wine.  The  uncle  grew  to  like  Spanish  wine  when  he  served  with  the  Lincoln  Brigade  in  537061696e.  David  is  pensive  during  the  meal,  still  shaken  by  his  dream.  After  he  washes  the  dish-  es,  he  and  his  uncle  play  chess  in  the  living  room.  The  uncle  taught  David  chess  when  he  was  a  boy  of  ten.  When  he  was  sixteen,  David  won  his  first  game,  and  shortly  after  that  he  began  to  win  regularly.  Tonight,  though,  he  loses  twice  in  a  row,  and  the  uncle  knows  that  something  is  wrong  but  says  nothing  about  it.  Finally,  David  acknowledges  that  he  has  had  another  dream  about  his  broth-  er.  He  tells  the  uncle  the  dream.  The  uncle  says  that  the  dream  reminds  him  of  certain  English  ballads.  David  says  that  he  can  understand  why  people  have  often  believed  that  dreams  are  im-  posed  on  the  dreamer  by  some  outside  force.  If  he  had  any  control,  he  says,  he  would  not  permit  himself  to  have  these  dreams.  The  two  men  are  silent  for  a  while.  They  sit  together  staring  into  the  fire,  listening  to  the  wind  rush  around  the  house  as  if  trying  to  gain  entrance.  David's  thoughts  keep  returning  to  the  dream.  He  feels  cold  and  his  hands  be-  gin  to  sweat.  He  has  an  overwhelming  urge  to  defecate  but  remains  in  his  chair  as  if  paralyzed.  Memories  that  he  has  been  trying  to  hold  back  begin  forcing  their  way  into  his  mind.  He  remembers  standing  in  the  door  of  the  hospital  room  after  his  brother's  surgery  and  raising  his  fist  as  a  sema-  phore  for  courage.  He  remembers  his  own  cowardice,  his  inability  to  join  his  mother  in  her  vigil  at  Mark's  bedside,  to  help  him  cough  up  blood  from  his  lungs.  He  remembers  his  sister-in-law  clenching  and  unclenching  her  fists  in  the  belief  that  as  long  as  she  did  so  Mark's  heart  would  keep  beating.  He  remembers  watching  a  doctor  shout  at  his  brother  as  he  slipped  into  a  coma,  and  he  remembers  his  brother's  feeble  response-a  slight,  slow  shaking  of  his  head,  like  a  refusal,  an  abnegation.  He  remembers  tubes  and  machines,  one  that  made  a  rhythmic  beep  like  a  ship  lost  in  fog  far  out  at  sea.  The  memories  well  out  faster  and  faster.  Finally,  he  remembers  his  broth-  er's  face  in  death,  his  eyelids  not  quite  covering  his  eyes,  as  if  he  were  looking  out  for  something  attacking  him  from  below,  his  mouth  set  in  a  faint  hint  of  the  once  brilliant  smile.  It  is  the  memory  of  the  smile  that  melts  the  horror  into  grief.  David  stands  up,  turns  away  from  his  uncle,  and  puts  his  hands  over  his  face.  &quot;I  am  so  sorry,&quot;  he  says,  and,  at  last,  he  weeps.  The  unclekeeps  his  gaze  fixed  on  the  fire  and  does  not  say  a  word.  ETER,  David  climbs  the  stairs  again  and  lies  down  on  his  bed  without  undressing.  He  spreads  an  old  quilt,  which  his  uncle  has  told  him  once  be-  longed  to  his  great-grandmother  in  [REDACTED],  over  himself,  and  falls  into  a  deep  and  blessedly  dreamless  sleep.  The  snow  continues  to  fall  all  night,  but  in  the  morning  a  brilliant  white  sun  rises  which  makes  the  mountains  soglisten  that  it  hurts  the  eye  to  look  on  them.  "