 b"WHEN  I  took  you  out,  that  day,  in  the  old  boat,  I  meant  for  it  to  show  you  something,  and  now  I  would  not  be  able  to  tell  you  what  that  was.  I  wanted  for  you  to  see  it,  not  merely  because  you  did  not  come  from  the  same  place  that  I  did.  But  you  did  come  from  far  away,  after  all.  From  another  country,  over  much  water,  with  your  pale  flame  of  hair.  And  I  had  come  long  before,  in  a  smaller  boat-but  you  already  knew  that.  To  tell  the  truth,  I  had  forgotten  that  voyage.  Was  it  really  heroic?  Was  I?'  If  so,  I  hope  it  did  not  show.  The  boat  from  the  old  family  boathouse,  which  is  almost  never  taken  out  any-  more.  Think  of  the  dangers  of  those  other  times.  Think  of  the  women  with  babies,  women  who  would  never  again  see  anything  in  the  same  light.  Think  how  I  did  not  want  to  come.  Think  how  cold  I  must  have  been,  in  the  winter.  Guess,  if  you  will,  at  the  terror  of  my  fires,  and  the  temptation  to  hate  my  life,  the  vacancy,  long  before  you  were  born.  But  that  was  not  what  I  wanted  to  show  you.  One  time  my  mother  took  me  out  to  the  island  to  see  the  Statue  of  Lib-  erty.  She  thought  it  would  show  me  something,  and  I  thought  so  too,  though  how  could  I  say  a  thing  like  that?  It  must  have  been  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  I  was  wearing  a  dark  beret;  I  was  somewhere  between  four  and  seven.  I  was  never  afraid  when  I  was  with  her.  As  we  approached  the  island  we  slowed  down  and  came  into  a  harbor  surrounded  by  stone  walls.  She  had  taught  me  the  word  &quot;approach.&quot;  The  boat  with  its  white  beams  turned  to  the  right  and  then  swung  to  the  left  and  ran  aground  with  a  heavy  sigh.  There  was  excitement  around  us,  and  people  rushed  to  the  rail  with  cries  and  ex-  clamations,  but  my  mother  told  me  they  were  silly.  She  showed  me  that  we  had  run  aground  in  soft  black  mud.  She  informed  me  that  we  were  a  little  early.  She  took  a  calm,  knowledgeable  interest  in  this  routine  event  which  seemed  to  surprise  others.  She  took  me  to  see  our  shadow  on  the  green  water  of  the  harbor,  in  which  the  mud  had  been  roiled  up-by  us.  Our  own  mud.  Outside  the  shadow  of  the  railing  our  shadows  waved  back  at  us  from  the  water  when  we  waved,  Fine  spokes  of  light  radiated  from  our  shadows,  as  they  did  from  the  raised  hand  of  the  statue,  in  pictures,  which  I  remem-  bered.  She  showed  me  the  gouge  in  the  mud,  where  we  had  run  aground,  as  the  captain  often  did  when  he  was  early,  because  he  was  young.  She  pointed  out  places  where  the  boat  had  run  aground  before,  as  people  should  have  realized.  'The  harbor  had  not  been  constructed  with  a  view  to  this  boat's  being  able  to  turn  around  in  it  easily.  It  was  being  enlarged,  but  until  the  new  wharf  was  finished  sometimes  the  boat  had  to  run  aground.  She  had  taught  me  the  word  &quot;tugboat&quot;  at  an  earlier  time,  and  the  word  &quot;ramp.&quot;  Later  I  was  convinced  that  Venus  and  the  Statue  of  Liberty  had  both  been  taken  from  the  same  model,  and  per-  haps  I  was  told  that-it  might  even  have  been  during  the  visit  to  the  statue.  But  that  was  not  what  I  wanted  to  show  you,  or  wanted  the  boat  to  show  you.  It  was  something  to  do  with  the  boat  itself,  and  not  just  with  when  and  where  it  was  taken.  The  curving  of  the  ribs,  did  you  see:  an  ancient  shape  akin  to  the  waves,  to  the  reflections  of  mountains,  and  to  the  courses  of  heavy-  enly  bodies?  I  made  them  myself  once.  A  little  hull  to  show  myself  something  I  could  not  afterward  explain,  some-  thing  that  cannot  be  kept  in  the  boat-  house  under  the  cobwebs  each  with  its  map  of  a  need.  Well,  we  went  out  in  the  old  boat.  It  was  past  the  middle  of  the  day,  and  in  a  place  I  remembered  I  ran  aground  deliberately,  as  though  I  were  young  or  early,  and  we  left  the  boat  there  with  the  tide  going  out,  so  that  it  would  stand  on  earth  near  its  drying  anchor  while  the  sun  went  down-I  showed  you  that,  as  we  walked  away  from  it.  You  saw  the  gold  earth  rising  out  of  the  water,  and  on  it  the  gold  boat  where  we  had  been.  Someone  knew  and  would  come  for  it,  on  the  dark  tide.  As  when  the  Ark  grounded  on  Ararat,  a  little  be-  fore  sunset,  and  in  the  morning  there  was  only  the  world  that  no  one  had  spoken  for.  "