 b"OF  a  wild  and  windy  night  this  winter,  any  noctambule  paus-  ing  to  light  his  cheroot  (or  ex-  tinguish  it;  it  comes  to  the  same  thing)  outside  a  public  house  off  Shaftesbury  Avenue  calledthe  Haunch  of  Pastrami  might  have  observed  two  individuals  of  no  special  distinction  descending  from  an  equipage  before  the  premises.  The  elder  and  portlier,  under  whose  luxuri-  ant  crepe  whiskers  were  concealed  the  features  of  Prince  Florizel  of  Bohemia,  preferred  to  be  known  as  Theophilus  Godall,  proprietor  of  a  cigar  divan  in  Rupert  Street.  The  younger,  his  con-  fidant  and  Master  of  the  Horse,  Colo-  nel  Geraldine,  passed  under  the  sobri-  quet  of  Major  Alfred  Hammersmith,  a  currently  unemployed  member  of  the  Fourth  Estate.  In  the  manner  of  a  cer-  tain  fabled  Caliph  of  49726171,  it  was  the  Prince's  whim,  whenever  threat-  ened  by  tedium  vitae,  to  thus  disguise  himself  and  his  fidus  Achates  and  to  court  such  adventures  as  might  befall  them.  The  locale  chosen  by  the  pair  tonight,  however,  seemed  less  than  promising.  None  in  the  crowd  peopling  the  bar  was  in  the  least  eccentric  or  provocative  in  his  conduct;  and  casting  a  keen  glance  about  him  as  he  finished  his  negus,  Prince  Florizel  was  con-  strained  to  remark  how  commonplace  their  existence  in  [REDACTED]  had  become  of  late.  &quot;True,  Sire,&quot;  his  aide  concurred.  &quot;Still,  it  was  in  circumstances  very  like  these  that  we  encountered  the  young  man  with  the  cream  tarts  who  led  us  into  that  extraordinary  affair  of  the  Suicide  Club.&quot;  &quot;Far  from  heartening  me,  your  op-  timism  only  aggravates  my  ennui,&quot;  the  other  returned.  &quot;There  is  nothing  in  the  world  so  tiresome  as  those  who  persist  in  looking  on  the  bright  side.&quot;  &quot;Forgive  me,  Highness,&quot;  Geraldine  apologized.  &quot;I  was  merely  contributing  some  exposition  to  help  the  reader  iden-  tify  us-the  sort  of  thing  a  housemaid  is  usually  discovered  prattling  over  a  flower  arrangement  when  the  curtain  rises.&quot;  &quot;In  that  case,  I  withdraw  the  re-  buke,&quot;  said  the  Prince  graciously.  &quot;But  what  is  this?  A  young  person,  his  check  mantled  by  a  hectic  flush,  has  just  en-  tered,  bearing  a  tray  laden  with  a  doz-  en  or  so  hard  doughnutlike  discs,  heavy-  ily  varnished  and  garnished  witha  fishy  pink-and-white  substance.&quot;  'Yes,  and  he  is  importuning  every-  body  to  take  one  free  gratis,&quot;  Geral-  dine  chimed  in.  &quot;Here  he  comes  now.  What  can  be  his  purpose?&quot;  Pausing  before  their  table,  the  object  of  their  speculation  bade  the  duo  a  civil  good  evening  in  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  ac-  cent  and  urged  them  to  sample  his  provender.  &quot;Should  you  be  toxipho-  bic,  I  can  dispel  your  fears  at  once,&quot;  he  told  them.  &quot;I  have  already  eaten  fourteen  and,  apart  from  a  slight  nausea,  have  experienced  no  noxious  effects.&quot;  &quot;'They  are  tiptop,&quot;  the  Prince  de-  clared,  chewing  one  meditatively.  &quot;What  are  they,  if  I  may  inquire?&quot;  &quot;As  to  that,  I  can  best  respond  with  a  brief  anecdote,&quot;  said  the  young  man.  &quot;Are  either  of  you  gentlemen  familiar  with  Rivington  Street  in  New  [REDACTED];  They  shook  their  heads.  &quot;Ah,  well,  no  matter.  It  is  an  area  rather  like  your  Golders  Green,  thickly  populated  by  a  particular  ethnic  group  whose  notables  range  from  Gyp  the  Blood  to  Spinoza.  At  any  rate,  it  appears  that  a  UFO,  a  flying  saucer,  was  forced  down  there,  owing  to  failure  of  its  landing  gear.  The  pilot,  a  small  emerald-hued  Venu-  sian  with  cars  like  catalpa  leaves,  roved  about  until  he  came  upon  a  delicatessen,    the  window  of  which  contained  a  pan-  ful  of  these  biscuits.  Entering  the  shop,  he  indicated  them  and  said,  'I  need  a  couple  of  those  wheels.&quot;  The  counter-  man  regarded  him  pityingly.  Listen,  greenhorn,'  he  said,  extending  one.  'These  aren't  wheels-they're  bagels.  They're  meant  to  be  eaten.&quot;  The  Venu-  sian  took  a  bite  or  two  and  stood  plunged  in  thought.  'You  know  what  would  be  real  tasty  with  these?&quot;  he  said.  'Lox  and  cream  cheese.&quot;  And  that,  in  a  word,  gentlemen,  is  what  you  are  munching  at  the  moment.&quot;  The  Prince  chuckled  almost  as  though  he  grasped  the  point  of  the  sto-  ry.  &quot;I  shall  not  conceal  from  you,  sir,  that  you  intrigue  me  vastly,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Would  it  be  presumptuous  to  ask  why  a  seemingly  rational  556e6974656420537461746573n  (unless  that  is  a  contradiction  in  terms)  is  en-  gaged  in  distributing  bagels  in  so  alien  a  milieu?&quot;  &quot;Not  at  [REDACTED];  replied  the  young  man.  &quot;'There  is,  indeed,  a  cogent  enough  ex-  planation,  but,  to  be  candid,  it  involves  a  somewhat  lengthy  preface,  and  the  hour  is  late.&quot;  &quot;You  have  our  complete  attention,  to  say  nothing  of  our  appetite,&quot;  the  Prince  assured  him,  reaching  for  an-  other  of  the  delicacies.  &quot;Not  having  supped  yet,  my  companion  and  I  will  gladly  liquidate  the  rest  of  these.  Pray  enlighten  us.&quot;  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  the  young  man  ac-  ceded.  &quot;Let  me  begin  with  a  query.  Do  you  believe  in  the  power  of  sugges-  tion-specifically,  in  mesmerism?&quot;  &quot;I  most  emphatically  do  not.  I  con-  sider  it  so  much  tommyrot.&quot;  &quot;Really?  Then  I  fear  I  must  differ  with  you,  since  it  is  my  livelihood.  My  name  is  Julio  Hoblitzelle.&quot;  &quot;What'!&quot;  exclaimed  Geraldine  in  startled  tones.  &quot;Not  Hoblitzelle  the  Great,  Hoblitzelle  the  world-renowned,  Hoblitzelle  the  master  hypnotist,  who  has  been  packing  them  in  nightly  at  the  Palladium  to  boffo  grosses-&quot;  &quot;Enough  already,&quot;  the  young  man  broke  in.  &quot;Yes,  I  am  he.&quot;  &quot;Then  I  owe  you  a  profound  apolo-  gy  for  my  skepticism,&quot;  the  Prince  averred.  &quot;I  myself  saw  you  hypnotize  a  chicken  in  [REDACTED]  which  subse-  quently  passed  through  the  audience  and  clucked  out  the  serial  number  in  people's  watches.  Is  that  fowl  still  part  of  your  repertoire?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  ate  him  rightafter  the  per-  formance,&quot;  said  Hoblitzelle.  &quot;But  to  resume  my  explanation.  Did  either  of  you,  perchance,  happen  to  see  a  jotting  in  the  Times  here  relative  to  a  gold-  thread  suit?&quot;  His  auditors  signified  that  they  had.  &quot;Well,  that  item  had  a  pro-  found  consequence.  It  set  me  to  reflect-     " b"ing  whether  the  apparel  might  not  prove  tremendously  valuable  to  me  in  my  professmn  Up  till  then,  in  order  to  hypnotize  a  person  I  had  &quot;asked  him  to  concentrate  on  a  shiny  spoon,  coin,  candle  flame,  or  the  like,  Here,  though,  was  an  absolutely  infallible  means  of  inducing  the  hypnoidal  state.  Under  ordinary  stage  lighting,  the  suit  would  appear  to  be  merely  a  garment  with  tiny  metallic  accents.  The  instant  I  stepped  into  a  spotlight,  however,  the  material  would  sparkle  and  shimmer  like  a  Burmese  pagoda,  automatically  throwing  my  subjects  into  a  trance.  It  was  so  simple  I  was  astonished  that  I  had  never  thought  of  it  before.  Con-  ceive,  then,  of  my  frustration  when,  on  hying  myself  to  such  prestigious  tailors  in  Savile  Row  as  Huntsman  and  Hawes  &amp;  Curtis  and  Anderson  &amp;  Sheppard,  I  found  not  an  inch  of  this  Cashanova  fabric  available-not  even  a  swatch.  To  add  to  my  chagrin,  I  was  reminded  with  a  taunting  smile  that  the  supply  for  [REDACTED]  had  been  restricted  to  enough  for  only  four  suits,  and  that  Dean  Martin,  Liberace,  and  similar  peacocks  were  offering  as  much  as  one  hundred  pounds  a  yard  for  the  goods.  So  daunting  was  the  taunting  that  I  was  ready  to  abandon  my  quest,  but  destiny  willed  otherwise.  The  very  next  evening,  I  happened  to  be  dining  by  myself  in  a  Turkish  restaurant  in  Old  Compton  Street.&quot;  &quot;I  know  it  well,&quot;  said  Florizel.  &quot;It  is  called  the  Paunch  of  Hastrami.  The  owner  is  an  Anatolian  with  a  big  fat  belly.&quot;  &quot;Correct,&quot;  said  Hoblitzelle.  &quot;Half-  way  through  my  dinner,  a  brash  and  patently  offensive  personage  strode  in,  accompanied  by  a  very  pretty  girl.  They  were  shown  into  the  booth  ad-  joining  mine,  separated  from  me  by  a  caf\xc3\xa9  curtain,  and  as  they  sat  down  I  stiffened  in  surprise.  The  man  was  wearing  a  gold-thread  suit.  Need  I  tell  you  that  from  that  second  my  meal  went  untasted?  At  first,  their  conversation  dealt  with  the  usual  ba-  nalities-the  choice  of  ap\xc3\xa9ritifs,  some  heavy  gallantry  she  evidently  wel-  comed,  judging  from  smothered  gig-  gles.  Suddenly  I  was  riveted;  she  was  admiring  the  texture  of  his  jacket,  and  he,  fatuous  booby,  began  to  preen  him-  self  on  his  cleverness.  The  material  was  well-nigh  unobtainable,  he  report-  ed  smugly,  but  he  knew  ofa  source  .  .  And  at  that  exact  juncture  fortune  smiled  on  me.  The  headwaiter's  voice  interrupted  him,  announcing  that  he  was  wanted  on  the  phone.  It  was  a  heaven-sent  opportunity,  and  I  seized  it.  Allowing  just  enough  time  for  him  to  lumber  off,  I  extracted  my  silver  cigarette  case,  thrust  aside  the  curtain,  and  held  it  mirrorwise  before  the  un-  derstandably  astounded  beauty.  &quot;'Do  not  be  alarmed,  lady,&quot;  I  told her  in  a  low,  urgent  voice.  'Just  con-  centrate  on  this  surface,  this  shining  silver  object.  ...  No,  no,  not  at  me.  Look  right  at  the  case--yes,  straight  at  i  .  Good-perfect.  You  are  getting  drowsy  ...  sleepy  .  .  .  drowsier,  sleepi-  .  Oh,  so  relaxed.  ...  Fine!  Now,  listen  to  me.  When  your  swain  reap-  pears,  you  will  ask  him  where-where,  do  you  comprehend?-he  got  that  cloth.  Repeat  after  me,  &quot;Where  did  that  cloth  come  from?&quot;  .  ..  Right.  ...  Yes,  now  wake  up,  I  commanded,  snapping  my  fingers,  and  drew  the  curtain  back  into  place.&quot;  &quot;Your  stratagem  worked?&quot;  Prince  asked,  his  eyes  sparkling.  &quot;Like  a  charm,&quot;  said  Hoblitzelle.  &quot;Within  five  minutes  after  her  escort  returned,  I  had  the  requisite  informa-  tion  and  was  speeding  homeward.  At  eleven  the  following  morning,  in  his  dingy  burrow  in  the  Portobello  Road,  a  dwarfish  Pakistani  tailor,  richer  by  the  sheaf  of  banknotes  I  had  tendered  him  in  advance,  finished  taking  my  meas-  urements.  That  a  sartorial  triumph  would  emerge  from  such  frowsty  sur-  roundings  may  seem  incredible,  but  in  fact  the  result  was  most  gratifying.  Indeed,  when  I  confronted  my  image  in  the  cheval  glass,  using  a  powerful  lamp  to  study  the  effect  of  its  rays  on  the  gold  thread,  I  was  so  dazzled  I  nearly  sank  into  a  trance  myself.  Hence  you  may  imagine  with  what  " b"buoyancy-nay,  with  what  glee-I  awaited  the  premi\xc3\xa9re  of  my  new  cos-  tume.  As  luck  would  have  it,  it  was  a  command  performance  at  the  Albert  Hall.  The  whole  Royal  Family,  nu-  merous  European  heads  of  state,  mem-  bers  of  the  peerage,  ambassadors,  and  dignitaries  of  the  court  were  arrayed  in  the  boxes  and  stalls,  and  all  the  performers,  if  I  may  risk  sounding  vainglorious,  were  ornaments  of  our  profession.  One  after  theother,  my  colleagues  went  through  their  turns  to  tumultuous  cheers.  Never  had  we  known  an  audience  so  appreciative,  so  unsparing  of  its  applause;  and  when  the  time  came  for  my  specialty  the  assemblage  was  wax  in  my  hands,  to  mold  as  I  willed.  Resplendent  in  my  Cashanova,  I  sallied  from  the  wings  to  a  storm  of  handclapping,  took  a  bow,  and  signalled  for  a  spot  to  be  thrown  on  me.  The  house  blacked  out,  there  was  a  flourish  from  the  orchestra,  and  there  Istood,  the  only  figure  visible,  bathed  in  a  cone  of  light.&quot;  The  mesmerist  paused,  drew  forth  a  handkerchief,  and  sponged  his  fore-  head.  Openmouthed,  their  ears  strained  to  catch  every  syllable,  the  Prince  and  his  aide  sat  waiting  for  Hoblitzelle  to  continue.  When  he  spoke  again,  it  was  in  a  tight,  curiously  flat  voice,  devoid  of  timbre.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  it  is  like  to  be  confronted  by  six  thousand  spellbound  people?  I  don't  mean  fascinated  or  deeply  absorbed-I  mean  people  asleep  with  their  eyes  open.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  trying  to  tell  us-&quot;  Prince  Florizel  began.  &quot;Precisely,&quot;  said  Hoblitzelle.  &quot;In  my  rapture  at  achieving  the  suit,  I  had  underestimated  its  candlepower.  Such  was  its  effulgence,  its  sheer  and  blind-  ing  radiance,  that  the  entire  audience-  even  those  already  asleep-was  hypno-  tized.  The  realization  of  what  had  occurred  only  dawned  on  me  when,  receiving  no  answer  to  my  appeal  for  volunteers,  I  shaded  my  eyes  and  peered  into  the  orchestra  pit.  Twenty-  seven  union  musicians  and  their  con-  ductor,  frozen  like  Madame  [REDACTED]'s  waxworks,  stared  up  at  me;  beyond  them  were  row  on  row  of  mummified  faces.  In  the  same  breath,  the  signifi-  cance  of  the  terrible  power  I  possessed  overcame  me:  with  a  few  words,  I  could  implant  a  command  in  these  monarchs  and  ministers  that  would  affect  the  lives  of  millions  for  good  or  evil.  It  was  a  responsibility  no  mortal  should  be  vested  with.  I  bent  over  the  footlights,  wrested  the  timp  stick  from  the  inanimate  hand  of  the  percussionist,  and  struck  the  kettledrum  a  resounding  blow  that  freed  the  spectators  from  my  thrall.  Then,  with  the  house  lights  on  and  all  shimmer  spent,  I  proceeded  with  my  act-which,  I  may  say  with-  out  vanity,  brought  me  the  longest  ovation  in  the  history  of  the  Albert  Hall.&quot;  &quot;Amazing!  Unparalleled  in  my  ex-  perience!&quot;  Florizel  pronounced,  ex-  haling  slowly.  &quot;To  think  that  for  one  instant  you  were  as  close  to  being  di-  vine  as  man  has  ever  come!  Do  you  agree,  Hammersmith?&quot;  &quot;Er-yes,  I  certainly  do,&quot;  said  the  latter.  &quot;The  only  trouble  is-the  thing  that  confuses  me-&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  brumbling  about?&quot;  the  Prince  demanded  sharply.  &quot;Speak  up,  man.  Get  the  marbles  out  of  your  mouth!&quot;  &quot;Well-uh-don't  you  remem-  ber?&quot;  Geraldine  reminded  him.  &quot;He  still  hasn't  told  us.  I  mean,  why  is  he  giving  away  free  bagels?&quot;  Hoblitzelle  nodded  patiently,  ges-  tured  to  the  pair  to  lean  closer,  and  gave  them  a  sly  wink.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  wascoming  to  that.  You  see,  friends,  it's  like  this.  Between  you  and  me  and  the  lamppost,  and  don't  breathe  it  to  a  soul,  hypnotism  is  forthe  birds.  It's  kaput-finished-napoo.  The  real  dough  is  in  standup  comedy-you  dig?  So  now  that  you've  enjoyed  our  little  feed,  I'd  like  to  try  out  a  couple  of  shticks  on  you.  Purely  for  reactions.&quot;  He  arose,  rubbed  his  hands,  and  in  a  plangent  voice  that  embodied  the  less  endearing  facets  of  Jerry  Lewis,  Alan  King,  and  Joey  Bishop,  saluted  the  oc-  cupants  of  the  bar:  &quot;Good  evening,  folks.  Say,  I  shot  a  little  pool  yesterday  afternoon  and  a  funny  thing  happened  on  the  way  to  the  taxidermist's.  Yuk,  yuk.  I  ran  into  a  guy  named  Booth,  who  has  a  booth  in  the  diamond  cen-  ter,  and  what  d'ye  think?  He's  got  a  wife  named  Ruth,  forsooth.  .  .  .&quot;  "