 b"THIS  trip  made  little  sense  from  the  start.  First,  it  didn't  pay  financially  to  leave  New  York  and  my  work  for  two  and  ahalf  months  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  lecture  tour;  second,  I  should  have  taken  an  airplane  instead  of  wasting  my  time  on  a  ship  for  eighteen  days.  But  I  had  signed  the  contract  and  accepted  a  first-  class  round-trip  ticket  on  La  Plata  from  my  impresario,  Chazkel  Poliva.  That  summer,  the  heat  lasted  into  October.  On  the  day  I  embarked,  the  thermometer  registered  ninety  degrees.  I  was  always  assailed  by  premonitions  and  phobias  before  a  trip:  I  would  get  sick;  the  ship  would  sink;  some  other  calamity  would  occur.  An  inner  voice  warned  me,  Don't  go!  However,  if  I  had  made  a  practice  of  acting  on  these  premonitions,  I  would  not  have  come  to  [REDACTED]  but  would  have  perished  in  Nazi-occupied  [REDACTED].  As  it  happened,  I  was  provided  with  all  possible  comforts.  My  cabin  looked  like  a  salon,  with  two  square  windows,  a  sofa,  a  desk,  and  pictures  on  the  walls.  The  bathroom  had  both  a  tub  and  a  shower  stall.  The  number  of  passengers  was  small,  mostly  Latin  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  and  the  service  staff  was  large.  In  the  dining  room  I  had  a  special  wine  steward,  who  promptly  filled  my  glass  each  time  I  took  a  sip  of  wine.  A  band  of  five  musicians  played  at  lunch  and  dinner.  Every  second  day  the  captain  gave  a  cocktail  party.  But  for  some  reason  I  could  not  make  any  acquaint  ances  on  this  ship.  The  few  passengers  who  spoke  English  kept  to  themselves.  The  men,  all  young  six-foot  giants,  played  shuffleboard  and  cavorted  in  the  swimming  pool.  The  wom-  en  were  too  tall  and  too  athletic  for  my  taste.  In  the  evening,  they  all  danced  or  sat  at  the  bar,  drinking  and  smoking.  I  made  up  my  mind  that  I  would  remain  isolated,  and  it  seemed  that  others  sensed  my  decision.  No  one  spoke  a  word  to  me.  I  began  to  wonder  if  by  some  magic  I  had  become  one  who  sees  and  is  not  seen.  After  a  while,  I  stopped  attending  the  cocktail  parties  and  I  asked  that  my  meals  be  served  in  my  cabin.  In  [REDACTED]  and  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  ship  stopped  for  a  day,  I  walkedaround  alone.  I  had  taken  little  to  readwith  me,  because  I  was  sure  that  the  ship  would  have  a  library.  But  it  consisted  of  a  single  glass-doored  bookcase  with  some  fifty  or  so  volumes  in  Spanish  and  perhaps  a  dozen  in  English-all  moldy  travel  books  printed  a  hundred  years  ago.  This  bookcase  was  kept  locked, and  each  time  I  wanted  to  exchange  a  book  there  was  a  commotion  about  who  had  the  key;  I  would  be  sent  from  one  member  of  the  staff  to  the  other.  Eventually,  an  officer  with  epaulets  would  write  down  my  name,  the  num-  ber  of  my  stateroom,  the  titles  and  authors  of  my  books.  This  took  him  at  least  fifteen  minutes.  When  the  ship  approached  the  equa-  tor,  I  stopped  going  out  on  deck  in  the  daytime.  The  sun  burned  like  aflame.  The  days  had  shortened  and  night  came  swiftly.  One  moment  it  was  light,  the  next  it  was  dark,.  The  sun  did  not  set  but  fell  into  the  water  like  a  me-  teor.  Late  in  the  evening  when  I  went  out  briefly,  a  hot  wind  slapped  my  face.  From  the  ocean  came  aroar  of  passions  that  seemed  to  have  brokenthrough  all  barriers:  &quot;We  must  procreate  and  mul-  tiply!  We  must  exhaust  all  the  powers  of  lust!&quot;  The  waves  glowed  like  lava,  and  I  imagined  I  could  see  multitudes  of  living  beings-algae,  whales,  sea  monsters-revelling  in  an  orgy,  from  the  surface  to  the  bottom  of  the  sea.  Immortality  was  the  law  here.  The  whole  planet  raged  with  animation.  At  times,  I  heard  my  name  in  the  clamor:  the  spirits  of  the  abyss  calling  me  to  join  them  intheir  nocturnal  dance.  In  [REDACTED]  Aires  I  was  met  by  Chazkel  Poliva-a  short,  round  per-  son-and  a  young  woman  who  intro-  duced  herself  as  my  relative.  Her  name  was  Hanka  and  she  was,  she  said,  a  great-granddaughter  of  my  Aunt  Yen-tel  from  her  first  husband.  Actually  Hanka  was  not  my  relative,  because  my  Uncle  Aaron  was  Yentel's  third  husband.  Hanka  was  petite,  lean,  and  had  a  head  of  pitch-black  hair,  full  lips,  and  eyes  as  black  as  onyx.  She  wore  a  dark  dress  and  a  black,  broad-brimmed  hat.  She  could  havebeen  thirty  or  thirty-five.  Hanka  imme-  diately  told  me  that  in  [REDACTED]  some-  one  had  hidden  her  on  the  Aryan  side-the  way  she  was  saved  from  the  Nazis.  She  was  a  dancer,  she  said,  but  even  before  she  told  me  I  saw  it  in  the  muscles  of  her  calves.  I  asked  her  where  she  danced  and  she  replied,  &quot;At  Jewish  affairs  and  at  my  own  trou-  bles.&quot;  Chazkel  Poliva  took  us  in  his  car  to  the  Hotel  Cosmopolitan  on  Junin  Street,  which  was  once  famous  as  the  main  street  of  the  red-light  district.  Poliva  said  that  the  neighborhood  had  been  cleaned  up  and  all  the  literati  now  stayed  in  this  hotel,  The  three  of  us  ate  supper  in  a  restaurant  on  Corrientes  JLOiver  Avenue,  and  Chazkel  Poliva  hand-  ed  me  a  schedule  covering  my  four  weeks  in  [REDACTED].  I  was  to  lecture  in  [REDACTED]  Aires  at  the  Th\xc3\xa9itre  Soleil  and  at  the  Jewish  Community  Center,  and  also  I  was  to  go  to  Rosario,  Mar  del  Plata,  and  to  the  Jewish  colonies  in  Mois\xc3\xa9s  [REDACTED]  and  in  Entre  Rios.  The  [REDACTED]  Society,  the  Yiddish  section  of  the  P.E.N.  Club,  the  journalists  of  the  newspaper  that  published  my  articles,  and  a  number  of  Yiddish  schools  were  all  preparing  receptions.  When  Poliva  was  alone  with  me  for  a  moment,  he  asked,  &quot;Who  is  this  woman?  She  says  that  she  dances  at  Jewish  affairs,  but  I've  never  seen  her  anywhere.  While  we  were  waiting  for  you,  I  suggested  that  she  give  me  her  address  and  telephone  number  in  case  I  needed  to  get  in  touch  with  her,  but  she  refused.  Who  is  she?&quot;  &quot;I  really  don't  know.&quot;  Chazkel  Poliva  had  another  gagement  that  evening  and  left  us  after  dinner.  I  wanted  to  pay  the  bill-  why  should  he  pay  for  a  woman  who  was  supposed  to  be  my  relative?  -but  he  would  not  permit  it.  I  noticed  that  Hanka  ate  nothing-she  had  only  a  glass  of  wine,  She  accompanied  me  back  to  the  hotel.  It  was  not  long  after  Peron  had  been  ousted,  and  [REDACTED]  was  in  the  midst  of  a  political  and  per-  haps  economic  crisis.  [REDACTED]  Aires,  it  seemed,  was  short  of  electricity.  The  streets  were  dimly  lit.  Here  and  there  a  gendarme  patrolled,  carrying  a  ma-  chine  gun.  Hanka  took  my  arm  and  we  walked  through  Corrientes  Avenue.  I  couldn't  see  any  physical  resemblance  in  her  to  my  Aunt  Yentel,  but  she  had  her  style  of  talking:  she  jumped  from  one  subject  to  another,  confused  names,  places,  dates.  She  asked  me,  &quot;Is  this  your  first  visit  to  [REDACTED]?  Here  the  climate  is  crazy  and  so  are  the  people.  In  [REDACTED]  there  was  spring  fever;  here  one  fevers  all  year  round.  When  it's  hot,  you  melt  from  the  heat.  When  the  rains  begin,  the  cold  eats  into  your  bones.  It  is  actually  one  big  jungle.  The  cities  are  oases  in  the  pampas.  For  years,  the  pimps  and  whores  controlled  the  Jewish  immigrants.  Later,  they  were  excommunicated  andhad  to  build  a  synagogue  and  acquire  a  cemetery  of  their  own.  The  Jews  who  came  here  after  the  Holocaust  are  lost  creatures.  How  isit  that  they  don't  translate  you  into  Spanish?  When  did  you  last  see  my  great-grandmother  Yentel?  I  didn't  know  her,  but  she  left  me  as  an  in-  heritance  a  chain  with  a  locket  that  was  perhaps  two  hundred  years  old.  I  sold  it  for  bread.  Here  is  your  hotel,  If  you're  not  tired,  I'll  goup  with  you  for  a  while.&quot;  " b"We  took  the  elevator  to  the  sixth  foor.  From  childhood,  I  have  had  a  liking  for  balconies;  there  was  one  out-  side  my  room  and  we  went  there  di-  rectly.  There  were  few  high  construc-  tions  in  [REDACTED]  Aires,  so  we  could  see  a  part  of  the  city.  I  brought  out  two  chairs  and  we  sat  down.  Hanka  was  saying,  &quot;You  must  wonderwhy  I  came  to  meet  you.  As  long  as  I  had  ncar  relatives-a  father,  a  mother,  a  brother,  a  sister-I  did  not  appreciate  them.  Now  that  they  are  all  ashes  I  am  yearning  for  relatives,  no  matter  how  distant.  I  read  the  Yiddish  press.  You  often  mention  your  Aunt  Yentel  in  your  stories.  Did  she  really  tell  you  all  those  weird  tales?  You  probably  make  them  up.  In  my  own  life,  things  happened  that  cannot  possibly  be  told.  I  am  alone,  completely  alone.&quot;  &quot;A  young  woman  does  not  have  to  be  alone.&quot;  &quot;Just  words.  There  are  circum-  stances  when  you  are  torn  away  like  a  leaf  from  a  tree  and  no  power  can  attach  you  again.  The  wind  carries  you  from  your  roots.  There's  a  name  for  it  in  Hebrew,  but  I've  forgotten.&quot;  &quot;Na-&lt;nad-a  fugitive  and  a  wan-  aere\xc2\xaes  &quot;That's  it.&quot;  EXPECTED  that  I  would  have  a  short  affair  with  Hanka.  But  when  I  tried  to  embrace  her  she  seemed  to  shrink  in  my  arms.  I  kissed  her  and  her  lips  were  cold.  She  said,  &quot;I  can  under-  stand  you-you  are  a  man.  You  will  find  plenty  of  women  here  if  you  lock  for  them.  You  will  find  them  even  if  you  don't  look.  But  you  are  a  normal  person,  not  a  necrophile.  I  belong  to  an  exterminated  tribe  and  we  are  not  material  for  sex.&quot;  My  lecture  at  the  Th\xc3\xa9Atre  Soleil  having  been  postponed  for  some  days,  Hanka  promised  to  return  the  next  evening.  I  asked  for  her  telephone  number  and  she  said  that  her  telephone  was  out  of  order.  In  [REDACTED]  Aires,  when  something  is  broken  you  can  wait  months  until  itis  repaired.  Before  she  left,  Hanka  told  me  almost  casually  that  while  she  was  looking  for  relatives  in  [REDACTED]  Aires  she  had  found  a  sec- ond  cousin  of  mine--Jechiel,  who  had  changed  his  name  to  Julio.  Jechiel  was  the  son  of  my  granduncle  Avigdor.  I  had  met  Jechiel  twice-once  in  the  village  of  Tishewitz,  and  the  second  time  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  came  for  medical  treatment.  Jechiel  was  about  ten  years  older  than  -tall,  darkish,  and  emaciated.  I  remembered  that  he  suffered  from  tuberculosis  and  that  Uncle  Avigdor  had  brought  him  to  [REDACTED]  tosee  a  lung  specialist.  I  had  felt  sure  thatJechicl  did  not  survive  the  Holocaust,  and  now  I  heard  that  he  was  alive  and  in  [REDACTED].  Hanka  gave  me  some  details  He  came  to  [REDACTED]  with  a  wife  and  a  daughter,  but  he  divorced  his  wife  and  married  a  Frampol  girl  whom  he  met  in  a  concentration  camp.  He  became  a  ped-  dler a  knocker,  as  they  were  called  in  [REDACTED]  Aires.  His  new  wife  was  illiter-  ate  and  was  afraid  to  go  out  of  the  house  by  herself.  She  hadn't  learned  a  word  of  Spanish.  When  she  needed  to  go  to  the  grocery  for  a  loaf  of  bread  or  for  potatoes,  Jechiel  had  to  accom-  pany  her.  Lately,  Jechiel  had  been     " b" suffering  from  asthma  and  had  to  give  up  his  peddling.  He  was  living  on  a  pension-what  kind  of  a  pension  Han-  ka  did  not  know  :  perhaps  from  the  city  or  from  some  charitable  society.  I  was  tired  after  the  long  day,  and  the  moment  Hanka  left  I  fell  onto  the  bed  in  my  clothes  and  slept.  After  a  few  hours,  I  awoke  and  went  out  onto  the  balcony.  It  was  strange  to  be  in  a  country  thousands  of  miles  from  my  present  home.  In  [REDACTED]  fall  was  ap-  proaching;  in  [REDACTED]  it  was  spring.  It  had  rained  while  I  slept,  and  Junin  Street  glistened.  Old  houses  lined  the  street;  its  stalls  were  shuttered  with  iron  bars.  I  could  see  the  rooftops  and  parts  of  the  brick  walls  of  buildings  in  adjoining  streets.  Here  and  there  a  reddish  light  glimmered  in  a  window.  Was  someone  sick?  Had  someone  died?  In  [REDACTED],  when  I  was  a  boy,  I  often  heard  gruesome  tales  about  [REDACTED]  Aires:a  pimp  would  carry  a  poor  girl,  an  orphan,  away  to  this  wicked  city  and  try  to  seduce  her  with  baubles  and  promises,  and,  if  she  did  not  give  in,  with  blows,  tearing  her  hair  and  sticking  pins  into  her  fingers.  Our  neighbor  Basha  used  to  talk  about  this  with  my  sister  Hinda.  Basha  would  say,  &quot;What  could  the  girl  do?  They  took  her  away  on  a  ship  and  kept  her  in  chains.  She  had  already  lost  her  in-  nocence.  She  was  sold  into  a  brothel  and  she  had  to  do  what  she  was  told.  Sooner  or  later  she  got  a  little  worm  in  her  blood,  and  with  this  she  could  not  live  long.  After  seven  years  of  disgrace,  her  hair  and  teeth  fell  out,  her  nose  rotted  away,  and  the  play  was  over.  Since  she  was  defiled,  they  buried  her  behind  the  fence.&quot;  I  remember  my  sister's  asking,  &quot;Alive?&quot;  Now  [REDACTED]  was  destroyed  and  I  found  myself  in  [REDACTED]  Aires,  in  the  neighborhood  where  misfortunes  like  this  were  supposed  to  have  taken  place.  Basha  and  my  sister  Hinda  were  both  dead,  and  I  was  not  a  small  boy  but  a  middle-aged  writer  who  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  to  spread  culture.  It  rained  all  the  next  day.  Perhaps  for  the  same  reason  that  there  was  a  shortage  of  electricity,  the  telephones  didn't  work  properly-a  man  would  be  speaking  to  me  in  Yiddish  when  suddenly  I  was  listening  to  a  female  laughing  and  screaming  in  Spanish.  In  the  evening  Hanka  came.  We  could  not  go  out  intothe  street,  so  I  ordered  supper  from  room  service.  I  asked  Hanka  what  she  wanted  to  eat  and  she  said,  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean  by  nothing?&quot;  &quot;A  glass  of  tea.&quot;  I  didn't  listen  to  her  and  I  ordered  a  meat  supper  for  her  and  a  vegetarian  platter  for  myself.  I  ate  everything;  Hanka  barely  touched  the  food  on  her  plate.  Like  Aunt  Yentel,  she  spewed  forth  stories.  &quot;They  knew  in  the  whole  house  that  he  was  hiding  a  Jewish  girl.  The  tenants  certainly  knew.  The  Aryan  side  teemed  with  szmalcownicy-this  is  what  they  were  called-who  extort,  ed  the  last  penny  from  Jews  to  protect  them  and  then  denounced  them  to  the  Nazis.  My  Gentile-Andrzej  was  his  name-had  no  money.  Any  minute,  someone  could  have  notified  the  Ges-  tapo  and  we  would  have  all  been  shot-I,  Andrzej,  Stasiek,  his  son,  and  Maria,  his  wife.  What  am  I  saying?  Shooting  was  considered  light  punish-  ment.  We  would  have  been  tortured.  All  the  tenants  would  have  paid  with  their  lives  for  that  crime.  I  often  told  him,  'Andrzej,  my  dear,  you  have  done  enough.  I  don't  want  to  bring  disaster  on  all  of  you.'  But  he  said,  'Don't  go,  don't  go.  I  cannot  send  you  away  to  your  death.  Perhaps  there  is  a  God  aft-  er  all.&quot;  I  was  hidden  in  an  alcove  with-  out  a  window,  and  they  put  aclothes  closet  at  the  door  to  conceal  the  en-  trance.  They  removed  a  board  from  the  back  of  the  closet  and  through  it  they  passed  my  foodand,  forgive  me,  they  took  out  the  chamber  pot.  When  I  extinguished  the  little  lamp  I  had,  it  became  dark  like  in  a  grave.  He  came  to  me,  and  both  of  them  knew  about  it-his  wife  and  their  son.  Maria  had  a  female  sickness.  Their  son  was  sick,  too.  When  he  was  a  child  he  developed  scrofula  or  some  gland  ill-  ness  and  the  boy  did  not  need  a  wom-  an.  I  don't  think  he  even  grew  a  beard.  He  had  one  passion-reading  newspa-  pers.  He  read  all  the  [REDACTED]  papers,     including  the  advertisements.  Did  An-  drzej  satisfy  me?  I  did  not  look  for  satisfaction.  I  was  glad  that  he  was  re-  lieved.  From  too  much  reading,  my  eyesight  dimmed.  I  became  so  con-  stipated  that  only  castor  oil  would  help  me.  Yes,  Ilay  in  my  grave.  But  if  you  lie  in  a  grave  long  enough,  you  getac-  customed  to  it  and  you  don't  want  to  part  from  it.  He  had  given  me  a  pill  of  cyanide.  He  and  his  wife  and  their  son  also  carried  such  pills.  We  all  lived  with  death,  and  I  want  you  to  know  that  one  can  fall  in  love  with  death.  Whoever  has  loved  death  cannot  love  anything  else  anymore.  When  the  lib-  eration  came  and  they  told  me  to  leave,  I  didn't  want  to  go.  I  clung  to  the  threshold  like  an  ox  being  dragged  to  the  slaughter.  &quot;How  I  came  to  [REDACTED]  and  what  happened  between  me  and  Jos\xc3\xa9  is  a  story  for  another  time.  I  did  not  deceive  him.  I  told  him,  'Jos\xc3\xa9,  if  your  wife  is  not  lively  enough,  what  do  you  need  acorpse  for?&quot;  But  men  do  not  believe  me.  When  they  see  a  woman  who  is  young,  not  ugly,  and  can  dance  besides,  how  can  she  be  dead?  Also,  I  hadno  strength  to  go  to  work  in  a  factory  with  the  Spanish  women.  He  bought  me  a  house  and  this  became  my  second  grave-a  fancy  grave,  with  flowerpots,  bric-a-brac,  a  piano.  He  told  me  to  dance  and  I  danced.  In  what  way  is  it  worse  than  to  knit  sweaters  or  to  sew  on  buttons?  All  day  long  I  sat  alone  and  waited  for  him.  In  the  evening  he  came,  drunk  and  angry.  One  day  he  spoke  to  me  and  told  me  stories;  the  next  day  he  would  be  mute.  I  knew  that  sooner  or  later  he  would  stop  talking  to  me  altogether.  When  it  happened  I  was  not  surprised,  and  I  didn't  try  to  make  him  talk,  because  I  knew  it  was  fated.  He  maintained  his  silence  for  over  a  year.  Finally  I  told  him,  'Jos\xc3\xa9,  go.'  He  kissed  my  forehead  and  he  left.  I  never  saw  him  again.&quot;  HE  plans  for  my  lecture  tour  be-  gan  to  go  awry.  The  engagement  in  Rosario  was  called  off  because  the  president  of  the  organization  suffered  aheart  attack.  The  board  of  directors  of  the  Jewish  Community  Center  in  " b"[REDACTED]  Aires  had  a  falling  out  over  political  differences,  and  the  subsidy  that  they  were  to  give  to  the  colonies  for  my  lectures  there  was  withheld.  In  Mar  del  Plata,  the  hall  I  was  to  speak  in  suddenly  became  unavailable.  In  addition  to  the  problems  of  the  tour,  the  weather  in  [REDACTED]  Aires  worsened  from  day  to  day.  There  was  lightning,  thunder,  and  from  the  provinces  came  news  of  windstorms  and  floods.  The  mail  system  didn't  seem  to  be  function-  ing.  Proofs  of  a  new  book  were  sup-  posed  to  come  by  airmail  from  New  York,  but  they  did  not  arrive  and  I  worried  that  the  book  might  be  pub-  lished  without  my  final  corrections.  Once,  I  was  stuck  in  an  elevator  be-  tween  the  fourth  and  fifth  floors  and  it  took  almost  two  hours  before  I  got  free.  In  New  York  I  had  been  assured  that  I  would  not  have  hay  fever  in  [REDACTED]  Aires,  because  it  was  spring  there.  But  I  suffered  from  attacks  of  sncezing,  my  eyes  watered,  my  throat  constricted-and  I  didn't  even  have  my  antihistamines  with  me.  Chazkel  Poliva  stopped  calling,  and  I  suspected  that  he  was  about  to  cancel  the  whole  tour.  I  was  ready  to  return  to  New  York-  but  how  could  I  get  information  about  a  ship  when  the  telephone  did  not  work  and  I  didn't  know  a  word  of  Spanish?  Hanka  came  to  my  room  every  eve-  ning,  always  at  the  same  time-I  even  imagined  at  the  same  minute.  She  en-  tered  noiselessly.  I  looked  up  and  there  she  was,  standing  in  the  dusk-  an  image  surrounded  by  shadows.  I  ordered  dinner  and  Hanka  would  be-  gin  her  soliloquy  in  the  quiet  monotone  that  reminded  me  of  my  Aunt  Yentel.  One  night,  Hanka  spoke  about  het  childhood  in  [REDACTED].  They  lived  on  Hoza  Street  in  a  Gentile  neighbor-  hood,  Her  father,  a  manufacturer,  was  always  in  debt-on  the  edge  of  bank-  ruptcy.  Her  mother  bought  her  dresses  in  [REDACTED].  In  the  summer  they  vaca-  tioned  in  Sopot,  in  the  winter  in  Zako-  pane.  Hanka's  brother  Zdzislaw  studied  in  a  private  high  school.  Her  older  sister,  Edzia,  loved  to  dance,but  their  mother  insisted  it  was  Hanka  who  must  become  another  Pavlova  or  Isa-  dora  Duncan.  The  dance  teacher  was  a  sadist.  Even  though  she  was  ugly  and  a  cripple  herself,  she  demanded  per-  fection  from  her  pupils.  She  had  the  eyes  of  a  hawk,  she  hissed  like  a  snake.  She  taunted  Hanka  about  her  Jewish-  ness.  Hanka  was  saying,  &quot;My  parents  had  one  remedy  for  all  our  troubles-  assimilation.  We  had  to  be  one-hun-  dred-per-cent  Poles.  But  what  kind  of  Poles  could  we  be  when  my  grand-  father  Asher,  your  Aunt  Yentel's  son,  couldnot  even  speak  Polish?  When-  ever  he  visited  us,  we  almost  died  from  shame.  My  maternal  grandfather,  Yu-  del,  spoke  a  broken  Polish,  He  once  told  me  that  we  were  descended  from  Spanish  Jews.  They  had  been  driven  from  537061696e  in  the  fifteenth  century,  and  our  ancestors  wandered  first  to  [REDACTED]  and  then,  in  the  Hundred  Years'  War,  to  [REDACTED].  I  felt  the  Jewishness  in  my  blood.  Edzia  and  Zdzislaw  were  both  blond  and  had  blue  eyes,  but  I  was  dark.  I  began  at  an  early  age  to  ponder  the  eternal  questions:  Why  is  one  born?  Why  must  one  die?  What  does  God  want?  Why  so  much  suffering?  My  mother  insisted  that  I  read  thePolish  and  French  popular  novels,  but  I  stealthily  looked  into  the  Bible.  In  the  Book  of  Proverbs  I  read  the  words  'Charm  is  deceitful,  and  beauty  is  vain,  and  I  fell  in  love  with  that  book.  Perhaps  because  I  was  forced  to  make  an  idol  of  my  body,  I  developed  a  hatred  for  the  flesh.  My  motherand  my  sister  were  fascinated  by  the  beauty  of  movie  actresses,  In  the  dancing  school  the  talk  was  always  of  hips,  thighs,  legs,  breasts.  When  a  girl  gained  as  much  as  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  the  teacher  created  a  scene.  All  this  seemed  petty  and  vulgar  to  me.  From  too  much  dancing,  we  developed  bunions  and  bulging  muscles.  I  was  often  compli-  mented  for  my  dancing,  but  I  was  possessed  by  the  dybbuk  of  an  old  Talmudist,  one  of  those  whitebeards  who  used  to  come  to  us  to  ask  for  alms  andwere  chased  away  by  our  maid.  My  dybbuk  would  ask,  For  whom  are  you  going  to  dance-for  the  Nazis?&quot;  Shortly  before  the  war,  when  Polish  students  chased  the  Jews  through  the  Saxony  Gardens  and  my  brother  Zdzislaw  had  to  stand  up  at  the  lectures  in  the  university  because  he  refused  to  sit  on  the  ghetto  benches,  he  became  a  Zionist.  But  I  realized  that  the  worldly  Jews  in  [REDACTED]  were  also  eager  to  imitate  the  [REDACTED].  My  brother  played  football.  He  belonged  to  the  Maccabee  sports  club.  He  lifted  weights  to  de-  velop  his  muscles.  How  tragic  that  all  my  family  who  loved  life  so  much  had  to  die  in  the  concentration  camps,  while  fate  brought  me  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  learned  Spanish  quickly-the  words  seemed  to  flow  back  into  me.  I  tried  to  dance  at  Jewish  affairs,  but  everything  here  is  rootless,  Here  they  believe  that  the  Jewish  State  will  end  our  misfortunes  once  and  forever.  This  is  sheer  optimism.  We  are  surrounded  there  by  hordes  of  enemies  whose  aim  is  the  same  as  Hitler's-to  exterminate  us.  Ten  times  they  may  not  succeed--  but  the  eleventh,  catastrophe.  I  see  the  Jews  being  driven  into  the  sea.  I  hear  the  wailing  of  the  women  and  the  chil-  dren.  Why  is  suicide  considered  such  a  sin?  My  own  feeling  is  that  the  great-  est  virtue  would  be  to  abandon  the  body  and  all  its  iniquities.&quot;  That  night,  when  Hanka  left  I  did  not  ask  her  when  she  would  return,  My  lecture  in  the  Th\xc3\xa9ftre  Soleil  had  been  advertised  for  the  next  day,  and  I  expected  her  to  attend.  I  had  slept  little  the  night  before,  and  I  went  to  bed  and  fell  asleep  immediately.  I  wakened  with  a  feeling  that  someone  was  whis-  pering  in  my  ear.I  tried  to  light  the  lamp  by  my  bed,  but  it  did  not  go  on.  I  groped  forthe  wall  switch,  but  I  couldnot  locate  it.  I  had  hung  my  jacket  containing  my  passport  and  traveller's  checks  on  a  chair;  the  chair  was  gone.  Had  I  been  robbed?  I  felt  my  way  around  the  room  like  a  blind  man,  tripping  and  bruising  my  knee.  After  a  while,  I  stumbled  into  the  chair.  No  one  had  taken  my  passport  or  my  traveller's  checks.  But  my  gloom  did  not  lessen.  I  knew  that  I'd  had  a  bad  dream,  and  I  stood  in  the  dark  trying  to  recollect  it.  The  second  I  closed  my  eyes,  I  was  with  the  dead.  They  did  things  words  cannot  express.  'They  spoke  madness.  &quot;I  will  not  let  her  into  " b"my  room  again,&quot;  I  murmured.  &quot;This  Hanka  is  my  angel  of  death.&quot;  I  sat  down  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  draped  the  covers  over  my  shoulders,  and  took  calculation  of  my  soul.  This  trip  had  stirred  up  all  my  anxieties.  I  had  not  prepared  any  notes  for  my  lecture,  &quot;Literature  and  the  Super-  natural,&quot;  and  I  was  apprehensive  that  I  might  suddenly  become  speechless;  I  foresaw  a  bloody  revolution  in  Ar-  gentina,  an  atomic  war  between  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED];  I  would  be-  come  desperately  sick.  Wild  absurdities  invaded  my  mind:  What  would  happen  if  I  got  into  bed  and  found  a  crocodile  there?  What  would  happen  if  the  earth  were  to  split  into  two  parts  and  my  part  were  to  fly  off  to  another  con-  stellation?  What  if  my  going  to  Argen-  tina  had  actually  been  a  departure  into  the  next  world?  I  had  an  uncanny  feel-  ing  of  Hanka's  presence.  In  the  left  corner  of  the  room  I  saw  a  silhouette,  a  dense  whorl  that  stood  apart  from  the  surrounding  darkness  and  took  on  the  shadowy  form  of  a  body-shoul-  ders,  head,  hair.  Though  I  could  not  make  out  its  face,I  sensed  inthe  lurk-  ing  phantom  the  mocking  of  my  cow-  ardices.  God  in  heaven,  this  trip  was  wakening  all  the  fears  of  my  cheder  days,  when  I  dared  not  sleep  alone  be-  cause  monsters  slithered  around  my  bed,  tore  at  my  sidelocks,  screeching  at  me  with  terrifying  voices.  In  my  fright,  I  began  to  pray  to  God  to  keep  me  from  falling  into  the  hands  of  the  Evil  Ones.  It  seems  that  my  prayer  was  heard,  for  suddenly  the  lamp  went  on.  I  saw  my  face  in  the  mirror-  white  as  after  a  sickness.  I  went  to  the  door  to  make  sure  it  was  locked.  Then  I  limpedback  to  the  bed.  The  next  day,  I  spoke  in  the  Th\xc3\xa9a-  tre  Soleil.  The  hall  was  filled  with  people  in  spite  of  the  heavy  rain  out-  side.  I  saw  so  many  familiar  faces  in  the  audience  that  I  could  scarcely  be-  lieve  my  eyes.  True,  I  did  not  remem-  ber  their  names,  but  they  reminded  me  of  friends  and  acquaintances  from  Bilgoray,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  Was  it  pos-  sible  that  so  many  had  been  saved  from  the  Nazis  and  come  to  my  lecture?  As  a  rule,  when  I  spoke  about  the  super-  natural  there  were  interruptions  from  the  audience-even  protest.  But  here,  when  I  concluded,  there  was  ominous  silence.  I  wanted  to  go  down  into  the  audience  and  greet  these  resurrected  images  of  my  past;  instead,  Chazkel  Poliva  led  me  behind  the  stage,  and  by  the  time  I  made  my  way  to  the  audi-  torium  the  overhead  lights  were  ex-  tinguished  and  the  seats  empty.  I  said,  &quot;Shall  I  speak  now  to  the  spirits?&quot;  As  if  he  were  reading  my  mind,  Poliva  asked,  &quot;Where  is  your  so-called  cousin?  I  didn't  see  her  in  the  hall.&quot;  &quot;No,  she  did  not  come.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  mix  into  your  private  affairs,  but  do  me  a  favor  and  get  rid  of  her.  It's  not  good  for  you  that  she  should  trail  after  you.&quot;  &quot;No.  But  why  do  you  say  this?&quot;  Chazkel  Poliva  hesitated.  &quot;She  frightens  me.  She  will  bring  you  bad  luck.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  believe  in  such  things?&quot;  &quot;When  you  have  been  an  impre-  sario  for  thirty  years,  you  have  to  be-  lieve  in  them.&quot;  HAD  dozed  off  and  evening  had  fallen.  Was  it  the  day  after  my  lec-  ture  or  a  few  days  later?  I  opened  my  eyes  and  Hanka  stood  at  my  bedside.  I  saw  embarrassment  in  her  eyes,  as  if  she  knew  my  plight  and  felt  guilty.  She  said,  &quot;We  are  supposed  to  go  to  your  cousin  Julio  this  eve-  ning.&quot;  I  had  prepared  myself  to  say  to  her,  &quot;I  cannot  see  you  again,&quot;  but  I  asked,  &quot;Where  does  Julio  live?&quot;  &quot;It's  not  too  far.  You  said  that  you  like  to  walk.&quot;  Ordinarily,  I  would  have  invited  her  to  dinner,  but  I  hadno  intention  of  dallying  with  her  late  into  the  night.  Perhaps  Julio  would  offer  us  something  to  eat.  Half  asleep,  I  got  up  and  we  walked  out  onto  Corrientes.  Only  an  occasional  street  light  was  lit,  and  armed  soldiers  were  patrolling  the  streets.  All  the  stores  were  closed.  There  was  an  air  of  curfew  and  Black  Sabbath.  We  walked  in  silence,  like  a  pair  who  have  quarrelled  yet  must  still  go  visiting  together.  Corrientes  is  one  of  the  longest  boulevards  in  the  world.  We  walked  for  an  hour.  Each  time  I  asked  if  we  were  nearing  our  destina-  tion  Hanka  replied  that  we  had  some  distance  to  go  yet.  After  a  while,  we  turned  off  Corrientes.  It  seemed  that  Julio  lived  in  a  suburb.  We  passed  fac-  tories  with  smokeless  chimneys  and  barred  windows,  dark  garages,  ware-  houses  -with  their  windows  sealed,  empty  lots  overgrown  with  weeds.  The  few  private  homes  we  saw  looked  old,  their  patios  enclosed  by  fences.  I  was  tense  and  glanced  sideways  at  Hanka.  I  could  not  distinguish  her  face-just  two  dark  eyes.  Unseen  dogs  were  bark-  ing;  unseen  cats  mewed  and  yowled.  I  was  not  hungry  but  unsavory  fluids  filled  my  mouth.  Suspicions  fell  on  me  like  locusts:Is  this  my  final  walk!  Is  she  leading  me  into  a  cave  of  mur-  derers?  Perhaps  she  is  a  she-  devil  and  will  soon  reveal  her  goose  feet  and  pig's  snout?  As  if  Hanka  grasped  that  her  silence  made  me  uneasy,  shebe-  came  talkative,  We  were  pass-  ing  a  sprawling  house,  with  no  win-  dows,  the  remnants  of  a  fence,  and  a  lone  cactus  tree  in  front.  Hanka  began,  &quot;'This  is  where  theold  Spanish  [REDACTED]  live.  There  is  no  heat  in  these  houses  the  ovens  are  for  cooking,  not  for  heat-  ing.  When  the  rains  come,  they  freeze.  They  have  a  drink  that  they  call  mat\xc3\xa9.  'They  cover  themselves  with  ragged  clothes,  sip  mate,  and  lay  out  cards.  They  are  Catholics,  but  the  churches  here  are  half  empty  even  on  Sunday.  The  men  don't  go,  only  the  women.  They  are  witches  who  pray  to  the  Dev-  il,  not  to  God.  Time  has  stopped  for  them-they  are  a  throwback  to  theera     " b"of  Queen  Isabella  and  Torquemada.  Jos\xc3\xa9  left  me  many  books,  and  since  I  stopped  dancing  and  have  no  friends  I  keep  reading.  I  know  [REDACTED].  Sometimes  I  think  I  lived  here  in  a  former  incar-  nation.  'The  men  still  dream  of  Inquisitions  and  autos-da-f\xc3\xa9.  'The  women  mutter  incanta-  tions  and  cast  spells  on  their  enemies.  At  forty  they  are  wrinkled  and  wilted.  'The  husbands  find  mistresses,  immediately  begin  to  spawn  children,  and  aftera  few  years  they  are  as  jealous,  bitter,  and  shabby  as  the  wives.  They  may  not  know  it,  but  many  of  them  de-  scend  from  the  mar-  ranos.  have  who  Somewhere  in  the  faraway  provinces  there  sects  that  light  candles  Friday  evening  and  keep  a  few  other  Jewish  cus-  toms.  Here  we  are.&quot;  We  entered  an  alley  that  was  under  con-  struction.  There  was  no  pavement,  no  side-  are  walks.  We  made  our  way  between  piles  of  boards  and  heaps  of  bricks  and  cement.  A  few  unfinished  houses  stood  without  roofs,  without  panes  in  the  windows.  The  house  where  Julio  lived  was  narrow  and  low.  Hanka  knocked,  but  no  one  answered.  She  pushed  the  door  open,  and  we  went  through  a  tiny  foyer  into  a  dimly  lit  room  furnished  only  with  two  chairs  and  a  chest.  On  one  chair  sat  Jechiel.  I  recognized  him  only  because  I  knew  that  it  was  he.  He  looked  ancient,  but  from  behind  his  aged  face,  as  if  from  behind  a  mask,  the  Jechiel  of  former  times  showed.  His  skull  was  bald,  with  a  few  wisps  of  side  hair  that  were  nei-  ther  gray  nor  black  but  colorless.  He  had  sunken  cheeks,  a  pointed  chin,  the  throat  of  a  plucked  rooster,  and  the  pimpled  nose  of  an  alcoholic.  Half  of  his  forehead  and  one  cheek  were  stained  with  a  red  rash.  Jechiel  did  not  lift  his  eyelids  when  we  entered.  I  never  saw  his  eyes  that  evening.  On  the  other  chair  sat  a  squat,  wide-girthed  woman  with  ash-colored,  dishevelled  hair;  she  was  wearing  a  shabby  housecoat.  Her  face  was  round  and  pasty,  her  eyes  blank  and  watery,  like  the  eyes  one  sees  in  asylums  for  the  mentally  sick.  It  was  hard  to  determine  whether  she  was  forty  or  sixty.  She  did  not  budge.  She  reminded  me  ofa  stuffed  doll.  From  the  way  Hanka  had  spoken,  I  presumed\xc2\xabthat  she  was  well  acquaint  ed  with  them  and  that  she  had  told  them  of  me.  But  she  seemed  to  be  meeting  them  for  the  first  time.  I  said,  &quot;Jechiel,  I  am  your  cousin  Isaac,  the  son  of  Bathsheba.  We  met  once  in  Tishewitz  and  later  in  War-  saw.&quot;  &quot; Si.&quot;   &quot;Do  you  recognize  [REDACTED];  (\xe2\x80\x98Si.,)  &quot;You  have  forgotten  Yiddish?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot; NO.&quot;   No,  he  had  not  forgotten  Yiddish,  but  it  seemed  that  he  had  forgotten  how  to  speak.  He  dozed  and  yawned.  I  had  to  drag  conversation  from  him.  To  all  my  questions  he  answered  ei-  ther,  &quot;84,&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  or  &quot;Bueno.&quot;  Neither  he  nor  his  wife  made  an  effort  to  bring  something  for  us  to  sit  on  or  a  glass  of  tea.  Even  though  I  am  not  tall,  my  head  almost  touched  the  ceiling.  Hanka  leaned  against  the  wall  in  silence.  Her  face  had  lost  all  expression.  I  walked  over  to  Jechiel's  wife  and  asked,  &quot;Do  you  have  someone  left  in  Frampol?&quot;  For  what  seemed  a  very  long  time  there  came  no  answer;  then  she  said,  &quot;Nobody.&quot;  &quot;What  was  your  father's  na556e6974656420537461746573;  She  pondered  as  if  she  had  to  re-  mind  herself.  &quot;Avram  Itcha.&quot;  &quot;What  did  he  do?&quot;  Again  a  long  pause.  &quot;A  shoemaker.&quot;  After  a  half  hour,  I  wearied  of  drawing  answers  from  this  numb  cou-  ple,  There  was  an  air  of  fatigue  about  them  that  baffled  me.  Each  time  I  ad-  dressed  Jechiel,  he  started  as  if  I  had  wakened  him.  &quot;If  you  have  any  interest  in  me,  you  can  call  the  Hotel  Cosmopolitan,&quot;  I  saidat  last. &quot; Si.&quot;   Jechiel's  wife  did  not  utter  a  sound  when  I  said  good  night  to  her.  Jechiel  mumbled  something  I  could  not  un-  derstand  and  collapsed  into  his  chair,.  I  thought  I  heard  him  snore.  Outside,  I  saidto  Hanka,  &quot;If  this  is  possible,  any-  thing  is  possible.&quot;  &quot;We  shouldn't  have  visited  them  at  night,&quot;  Hanka  said.  &quot;They're  both  sick.  He  suffers  from  asthma  and  she  has  a  bad  heart.  I  told  you,  they  be-  came  acquainted  in  [REDACTED].  Didn't  " b"you  notice  the  numbers  on  their  arms?&quot;  &quot;No.&quot; &quot;'Those  who  stood  at  the  threshold  of  death  remain  [REDACTED];  I  had  heard  these  words  from  Hanka  and  from  other  refugees  before,  but  in  this  dark  alley  they  made  me  shudder.  I  said,  &quot;Whatever  you  are,  be  so  good  asto  get  me  a  taxi.&quot; &quot;Si.&quot;  Hanka  embraced  me.  She  leaned  against  me  and  clung  to  me.  I  did  not  stir.  We  stood  silent  in  the  alley,  and  a  needlelike  rain  began  to  fall  on  us.  Someone  extinguished  the  light  in  Julio's  house  and  it  became  as  dark  around  us  as  in  Tishewitz.  HE  sun  was  shining,  the  sky  had  cleared,  it  shone  blue  and  sum-  mery.  The  air  smelled  of  the  sea,  of  man-  go  and  orange  trees.  Blossoms  fell  from  their  branches.  The  breezes  reminded  me  of  the  Vistula  and  of  [REDACTED].  Like  the  weather,  my  lecture  tour  had  also  cleared  up.  All  kinds  of  institutions  in-  vited  me  to  speak  and  gave  banquets  for  me.  Schoolchildren  honored  me  with  dancing  and  songs.  It  was  bewildering  that  such  a  fuss  should  be  made  about  a  writer,  but  [REDACTED]  is  isolated  and  when  they  geta  guest  they  receive  him  with  exaggerated  friendliness.  Chazkel  Poliva  said,  &quot;It's  all  be-  cause  you  freed  yourselfof  Hanka.&quot;  I  had  not  freed  myself.  I  was  search-  ing  for  her.  Since  the  night  we  visited  Julio,  Hanka  had  not  come  to  see  me.  And  there  was  no  way  I  could  get  in  touch  with  her.  I  did  not  know  where  she  lived;  I  didn't  even  know  her  sur-  name.  I  had  asked  for  her  address  more  than  once,  but  she  had  always  avoided  answering.  Neither  did  I  hear  from  Julio.  No  matter  how  I  tried  to  de-  scribe  his  little  alley,  no  one  could  iden-  tify  it  for  me.  I  looked  in  the  telephone  book-Julio's  name  was  not  listed.  I  went  up  to  my  room  late.  Going  onto  the  balcony  at  night  had  become  a  habit  with  me.  A  cool  wind  was  blowing,  bringing  me  greetings  from  the  Antarctic  and  the  South  Pole.  I  raised  my  eyes  and  saw  different  stars,  different  constellations.  Some  groups  of  stars  reminded  me  of  consonants,  vowels,  and  the  musical  notations  I  had  studied  in  cheder-an  aleph,  a  ha,  a  shuruk,  a  segul,  a  tsairai,  a  chain.  The  sickle  of  the  moon  seemed  to  hang  re-  versed,  ready  to  harvest  the  heavenly  fields  backward.  Over  the  roofs  of  Junin  Street,  the  southern  sky  stretched,  strangely  near  and  divinely  distant,  a  cosmic  illumination  of  a  volume  with-  out  a  beginning  and  without  an  end-  to  be  read  and  judged  by  the  Author  himself.  I  was  calling  to  Hanka,  &quot;Why  did  you  run  away?  Wherever  you  are,  come  back.  There  can  be  no  world  without  you.  You  are  an  eternal  letter  in  God's  scroll.&quot;  In  Mar  del  Plata,  the  hall  had  be-  come  available,  and  I  went  there  with  Chazkel  Poliva.  On  the  train  he  said  to  me,  &quot;You  may  think  it  crazy,  but  here  in  [REDACTED]  Communism  is  a  game  forthe  rich.  A  poor  man  cannot  become  a  member  of  the  Communist  Party.  Don't  ask  me  any  questions.  So  it  is.  The  rich  Jews  who  have  villas  in  Mar  del  Plata  and  will  come  tonight  to  your  lecture  are  all  leftists.  Do  me  a  favor  and  don't  speak  about  mysticism  to  them.  They  don't  believe  in  it.  They  babble  constantly  about  the  social  revo-  lution,  although  when  the  revolution  comes  they  will  be  its  first  victims.&quot;  'This  in  itself  is  a  mystery.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  But  we  want  your  lecture  to  bea  success.&quot;  I  did  what  Poliva  told  me  to  do.  I  didn't  mention  the  hidden  powers.  After  the  lecture,  I  read  a  humorous  sketch.  When  I  finished  and  the  question-and-  answer  period  began,  an  old  man  rose  and  asked  me  about  my  inclination  toward  the  supernatural.  Soon,  questions  on  this  subject  came  from  all  sides.  That  night,  the  rich  Jews  in  Mar  del  Plata  showed  great  interest  in  telepathy,  clair-  voyance,  dybbuks,  premonitions,  rein-  carnation:  &quot;If  there  is  life  after  death,  why  don't  the  slaughtered  Jews  take  re-  venge  on  the  Nazis?&quot;  &quot;If  there  is  telep-  athy,  why  do  we  need  the  telephone?&quot;  &quot;If  it  is  possible  that  thought  influences  inanimate  objects,  how  does  it  come  that  the  bank  in  the  casino  makes  high  profits  just  because  it  has  one  chance  more  than  its  clients?&quot;  I  answered  that  if  the  ex-  istence  of  God,  the  Soul,  the  Hereafter,  Special  Providence,  and  everything  that  has  to  do  with  metaphysics  were  sci-  entifically  proven,  man  would  lose  the  highest  gift  bestowed  upon  him-free  choice.  The  chairman  announced  that  the  next  question  would  be  the  last  one,  and  a  young  man  got  up  and  asked,  &quot;Have  you  had  personal  experience  ofthat  sort?  Have  you  ever  seen  a  spirit?&quot;  I  answered,  &quot;All  my  experiences  have  been  ambiguous.  None  of  them  could  serve  for  evidence.  Just  the  same,  my  belief  in  spirits  becomes  ever  stronger.&quot;  There  was  applause.  As  I  bowed  and  thanked  them,  I  saw  Hanka.  She  was  sitting  in  the  audience,  clapping  her  hands.  She  wore  the  same  black  hat  and  black  dress  she  had  worn  at  all  our  meetings.  She  smiled  at  me  and  winked.  I  was  stunned.  Had  she  trav-  eled  after  me  to  Mar  del  Plata?  I  looked  again  and  she  had  vanished.  No,  it  had  been  a  hallucination.  It  last-  ed  only  one  instant.  But  I  will  brood  about  this  instant  for  the  rest  of  my  life. "