 b"A  RELIABLE  source  has  told  me  that  the  all-night  conve-  nience  store  where  he  clerks  (the  Short  Shrift)  took  inventory  last  week  and  came  up  with  a  three-hun-  dred-and-thirty-seven-dollar  overage.  This  was  almost  certainly  the  work  of  the  ubiquitous  shopleaver,  a  slick  new  operator  who  has  become  increasingly  active  in  the  inner  cities  and  is  now  moving  along  to  our  suburbs.  Working  in  highly  organized  &quot;Fagin  gangs,&quot;  shopleavers  can  easily  overload  as  many  as  ten  or  twelve  neighborhood  stores  in  a  single  day.  Schlepping  a  variety  of  wares  into  the  store-from  Fritos  to  Frisbees,  Ken-L  Ration  to  Karo,  all  concealed  in  bulky  overcoats  or  under  capacious  gypsy  skirts-they  feign  shop-  ping,  while  surreptitiously  unloading  their  sundry  goods.  An  experienced  shopleaver  is  very  hard  to  nail,  since  he  is  careful  to  place  each  added  product  on  the  proper  shelf,  with  the  day's  exact  price  (including  specials)  purple-stamped  on  it.  It  has  been  con-servatively  estimated  (by  Conservative  Estimates,  Inc.)  that  556e6974656420537461746573n  busi-  nessmen  suffer  a  net  gain  from  shop-  leavers  of  nearly  seven  billion  dollars  a  year!  The  figure  would  be  much  larger  without  the  deduction  of  the  cost  of  rebalancing  the  overloaded  stores'  books.  Actually,  a  good  deal  of  shop-  leaving  probably  goes  unreported,  since  many  store  owners  are  afraid  to  ad-  mit  they  have  been  &quot;had.&quot;  According  to  criminologists,  the  typical  shopleaver  tends  to  be  a  misfit  with  absolutely  no  vices;  finding  himself  burdened  with  guilt  because  of  his  constant  surplus  of  money  and  goods,  he  must  unload  as  much  as  four  hundred  dollars'  worth  each  week  in  order  to  feed  his  habit.  Because  of  the  sickening  collapse  of  our  moral  values,  a  whole  raft  of  soft-  core  criminals  like  the  shopleaver  has  recently  sprung  into  being.  I  propose  to  describe  a  few  of  them  bere,  so  that  the  average,  normally  hostile  citizen  can  protect  himself.  Most  of  these  criunes  go  unreported  in  the  uniform  crime  statistics  issued  by  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation-for  reasons  all  too  easy  to  guess.  Were  the  dep-  redations  of  these  shadowy  perpetra-  tors  added  to  the  existing  statistics,  we  would  see  the  highest  single  spurt  in  na-  tional  crime  figures  since  the  Clabber  and  Whey  Riots.  THE OVERKITER  This  unscrupu-  lous  trickster  frequents  garage  sales  and  back-yard  flea  markets.  Here  he  se-  lects  an  item  like  an  Ellsworth  Vines,  signature  tennis  racket  or  a  period  ply-  wood  bassinet,  for  which  he  writes  you  a  check  for,  say,  fifteen  dollars.  Be-  cause  you  are  happy  to  find  a  good  home  for  such  a  treasured  rarity,  you  are  too  excited  to  notice  until  you  get  to  the  bank  that  the  check  is  for  a  hundred  and  fiftcen  dollars!  Don't  bother  to  look  for  our  slippery  friend  at  the  address  on  his  check;  it  always  turns  out  to  be  a  vacant  lot  or  a  50\xc2\xa2  Wash  35\xc2\xa2  Dry  Laundromat.  Oh,  the  check  will  be  good-all  too  good-and  there  you  are,  stuck  with  the  extra  hundred,  and  no  doubt  just  a  little  less  trustful  of  your  fellow-man.  Next  time,  be-  ware  of  strangers  who  come  to  your  house  in  a  Toyota  Corolla  with  a  &quot;Have  a  Nice  Day&quot;  bumper  sticker.  Have  a  nice  day,  indeed!  The  Better  Business  Bureau  has  found  that  fam-  ilies  victimized  by  overkiters  almost  immediately  begin  to  spend  beyond  their  means,  running  up  cost  over-  runs  that  wouldshame  an  aerospace  contractor.  THE WHITE MARKETEER:  As  we  move  now  into  Phase  VI  74%,  which  will  feature  shortages  of  ever  more  unusual  products,  we  will  see  a  good  deal  more  of  this  unpatriotic  Good  Sam,  who  puts  his  own  personal  lack  of  gain  above  his  country's.  Benign  in  appearance,  and  often  wearing  a  man-  dala-print  shirt  with  flowing  batwing  sleeves,  he  hangs  out  around  the  en-  trances  to  art  museums,  food-stamp  offices,  libraries,  thrift  shops,  and  Zen  centers,  offering  to  sell  to  the  unwary  such  easy-to-get  items  as  Foster  Grant  shades,  Love  water  beds,  and  Olivetti  portables  at  half  the  retail  price.  Think  ing  you  are  getting  &quot;hot&quot;  goods,  you  jump  at  the  offer-only  to  find  to  your  chagrin  that  the  stuff  is  legit.  On  an-  other  day,  he  will  open  his  psychedelic  cape  and  show  you  a  row  of  watches  pinned  inside.  For  a  dollar,  youbuy  one  with  a  Spiro  Agnew  face-and  discover  when  you  get  it  home  and  pry  open  the  back  that  it  has  a  twenty-one-jewel  movement.  And  so  it  goes.  Small  won-  der  that  all  the  goods  he  sells  are  fab-  " b"ulous  bargains,  since  he  is  losing  mucho  dinero  on  every  item.  One  day,  utterly  without  warning,  the  white-marketeer  disappears-usually  because  he  has  been  vending  without  a  license  and  has  been  busted  by  our  hardworking  undercover  police,  who  put  in  up  to  twenty-seven  hours  each  week  at  five-figure  salaries  to  protect  us  from  these  nefarious  op-  erators,  and  what  thanks  do  they  ever  get?  A  tough,  no-nonsense  judge  will  now  put  away  this  con  artist  for  a  year  or  more,  so  that  he  can  have  a  long  think  about  his  sins.  Good  for  you,  Judge!  The  white-marketeer  is  gone-  but  where  does  this  leave  you?  You  have  developed  the  debilitating  low-  price  habit,  and  now  you  have  no  Mr.  Greatheart  to  supply  you.  Moral:  Al-  ways  stick  to  reputable  merchants,  who  charge  a  nice,  healthy  eighty-per-cent  markup.  These  men  are  in  business  to  stay,  and  will  be  ready  to  serve  you  again  the  following  week,  when  your  product  has  worn  out.  THE LONE SKYJACKETER:  The  556e6974656420537461746573n  skies  are  threatened  by  a  new  and  elusive  phantom,  whose  m.o.  is  just  beginning  to  be  understood.  Upon  deplaning,  the  lone  skyjacketer  casually  &quot;forgets&quot;  his  jacket  (either  a  tweed  double  knit  or  the  equally  fashionable  douhle-breasted  blazer  with  deep  vent  and  fake-heraldic  bronze  buttons),  usually  leaving  it  in  a  corner  seat  of  the  plane's  lounge.  Cunningly,  almost  cruelly,  the  skyjacketer  leaves  a  coat  that  is  ot  his  size.  Thus,  when  Sherri,  the  smiling,  helpful  stewardess,  no-  tices  his  oversight  and  hurries  after  him  with  the  &quot;forgotten&quot;  garment,  he  is  easily  able  to  prove  that  it  cannot  be  his.  Poor  Sherri  now  must  chase  after  all  the  other  men  who  were  on  the  plane,  delaying  and  enraging  them  with  her  importunings.  Eventually,  she  is  reduced  to  tears,  and  the  jacket  goes  into  the  airline's  lost-and-found  depart-  ment.  The  motives  of  the  lone  sky-  jacketer  are  unclear  (he  may  be  a  dis-  gruntled  air  traveller  who  has  been  blackballed  by  the  T.W.A.  Ambassa-  dors  Club),  but  there  is  no  doubt  that  he  is  succeeding.  The  steep  decline  of  major-air-carrier  profits  in  thepast  four  years  is  almost  directly  proportional  to  the  soaring  cost  of  their  lost-and-found  operations,  up  a  whacking  eight  hun-  dred  per  cent  since  the  advent  of  this  diabolical  operator.  THE WHITE HOSE PLUMBER:  This  neat,  smiling,  oh-so-polite  service-  man  (his  sobriquet  comes  from  his  ha-  bitual  costume:  white  bib  overalls  and  matching  white  Dacron  hose  with  blue  clocks)  will  usually  turn  up  at  your  place  less  than  fifteen  minutes  after  your  telephone  call  to  the  plumbers.  (This  alone  should  arouse  your  suspi-  cions.)  Within  another  half  hour,  he  will  be  out  the  door  again,  muttering  something  about  being  unable  to  finish  the  job  because  he  has  left  histools  at  home.  (Actually,  all  his  tools  have  been  concealed  in  the  capacious  pockets  of  his  Can't  Bust  'Em  overalls.)  When  two  or  three  hours  pass  and  he  does  not  return,  you  grow  angry.  Irritably  pressing  the  nonfunctioning  toilet  le-  ver,  you  are  startled  by  a  roar  of  flush-  ing  waters,  and  when  you  lift  the  lid  of  the  tank  you  find  that  a  brand-  new  copper  float  has  also  been  in-  stalled!  You  hurry  to  the  phone  and  dial  the  plumbing  firm,  only  to  find  that  they  have  no  employee  called  Happy  Hooligan  (the  repellent  name  he  gave  on  his  arrival).  And  so  you  are  stuck,  brother-with  a  toilet  that  works,  with  nothing  to  say  when  your  friends  begin  comparing  bad-service  yarns  at  the  next  cocktail  party,  and  with  no  major-improvement  plumbing  bill  to  deduct  on  your  income  tax.  HESE  have  been  only  a  few  ex-  amples-the  tip  of  the  iceberg,  to  use  Barry  Goldwater's  felicitous  phrase-which  indicate  a  dangerous  at-  tack  upon  our  moral  fibre.  Each  new  week  brings  fresh  reports  from  our  cit-  ies  and  suburbs  ofa  soaring  incidence  of  new  and  insidious  gyp  merchants-un-  derweighing  butchers,  long-change  art-  ists,  no-interest  loan  dolphins,  spaced-  out  cabbies  who  &quot;forget&quot;  to  drop  the  flag,  and  benevolent  door-to-door  sales-  menwho  end  up  buying  your  worn-  out  vacuum  cleaner  end  the  old  guppy  tank  with  the  crack  in  the  bottom.  The  aim  ofthese  altruistic  bleeding  hearts  is  frighteningly  clear:  They  wish  to  make  usforget  that  greed  is  what  has  made  [REDACTED]  great. "