 b"THE  worst  thing  about  the  nerve  hospital  was  they  stopped  you  from  doing  anything  unless  you  did  it  just  to  suit  them.  The  ladies  in  my  ward  let  me  help  them  with  their  zippers  and  fix  their  hair-little  things  like  this-but  my  mind  couldn't  help  wandering  back  to  the  clear  life  I  had  before  and  what  especially  grieved  me  was  my  hoe.  A  hoe  can  scrape  away  weeds,  if  you  keep  it  filed  right,  so  that  vegetable  flowers  pop  out  overnight  and  then  in  a  day  or  two  are  big  fine  squashes  and  okra.  But  a  broom  does  some  good  too,  and  I  begged  until  I  got  one.  I  promised  I'dstay  in  my  own  ward  with  it  and  I  did  until  tey  moved  me.  As  soon  asI  got  that  cool  feeling  stick  in  my  hands,  I  knew  I  had  my  work.  Mama  taught  me,  long  years  ago,  exactly  how  to  slant  one  and  keep  my  dirt  together.  I  liked  to  have  my  friends  in  the  ward  watching  the  whole  pile  and  telling  me  what  I'd  missed,  under  beds  and  all,  and  had  to  go  back  after.  Even  bed  people  see  cobwebs,  and  one  lady  fussed  so  much  I  had  to  make  her  leader  for  noticing  pieces  of  dirt  that  weren't  any  bigger  than  plain  specks.  Like  I  say,  I  would  never  of  thought  of  moving,  but  the  nurse  said  the  next  ward  over  needed  a  sweeper  too,  and  I  went  on  in  there.  The  people  were  nice  and  I  passed  some  thoughts  with  them.  It  seemed  like  nearabout  the  whole  world  was  locked  up  in  this  hospital.  I  get  ashamed  to  worry  about  my  cats  and  things,  because  some  of  these  peo-  ple  bad  children  with  nobody  but  mean  stepmothers  to  leave  them  with  and  serious  things  like  that.  A  cat  is  right  smart  about  going  in  the  woods,  if  it  has  to,  and  living  on  just  lizards.  Once  the  nurses  got  to  realize  what  a  dependable  sweeper  I  was,  they  be-  gan  to  give  me  keys.I  would  unlock  a  ward,  clean  up  good,  and  have  a  visit  too,  then  goon  in  an-  other.  Oncewhen  the  reg-  ular  sweeping  man  got  sick  they  gave  me  the  key  to  where  they  had  the  young  men  shut.  Most  of  them  were  bad,  the  nurses  said,  and  if  one  tried  to  work  the  others  would  all  beat  him.  I  thought  this  was  a  terrible  thing,  and  when  I  locked  that  door  behind  me  I  was  looking  for  the  worst.  Sure  enough,  they  didn't  know  me  at  first  and  one  of  them  grabbed  my  broom  and  tried  to  hit  another,  but  I  told  him  to  wait  a  minute-excuse  his  enemy  instead  of  trying  to  hurt  him.  As  fast  as  Jesus  said  what  He  said,  I  said,  it  got  too  late  for  fighting!  I  was  right  pleased,  they  seemed  so  interested.  The  one  that  was  doing  the  hitting  looked  like  the  liveli-  est  of  them.  I  took  some  tissues  and  wiped  the  sweat  off  his  neck  and  praised  him  to  the  highest  for  giving  back  my  broom.  The  others  com-  menced  to  laugh-said  I  was  playing  with  them-but  I  told  them  no  in-  deed,  that  I  was  long  since  grown  and  my  playing  days  were  over.  My  boy  (the  one  that  grabbed  the  broom)  jumped  up  then  and  talked  right  in  my  face.  He  wasn't  crazy,  he  said,  he  was  in  here  because  he  was  fixing  to  kill  a  man-a  big  financing  fellow  down  in  Bogue.  They'd  named  him  as  crazy  just  to  get  him  out  of  the  way,  but  he  would  eventually  find  the  fellow  and  when  he  did,  no  matter  if  it  was  Christmas  Day,  he  was  going  ahead  and  stomp  him.  That  was  the  only  way  to  get  it  evened  up.  He  would  tell  me  about  it,  he  said,  so  I  glanced  at  the  bars  across  the  little  window  and  saw  nobody  was  watching  us,  then  said  to  go  ahead.  It  started,  the  boy  said,  when  his  mother  wanted  a  whole  house  offur-  niture  out  of  natural  yellow  wood.  His  papa  didn't  want  to,  but  to  keep  the  peace  he  went  to  the  finance  store  and  signed  up  some  arrangements.  The  ar-  rangements  didn't  agree  to  a  thing  about  his  land-when  he  signed  them  he  was  sure-but  when  it  wound  up  and  he  couldn't  make  his  payment  the  finance  man  had  taken  it  all!  The  house  and  eighteen  acres.  They  showed  where  was  a  check  mark  that  they  could.  Well,  this  sounded  to  me  like  a  se-  rious  piece  of  business  and  I  went  back to  sweeping  and  hoped  they'd  quiet  down.  But  in  this  particular  ward  it  was  hard  to  keep  out  trouble.  Another  one  of  the  boys  held  it  was  a  company  that  did  the  wrong,  there  was  no  such  thing  as  an  original  man-he  was  working  for  a  company.  The  company  pays  a  straight  salary  to  have  their  men  get  papers  signed,  so  the  men  just  make  a  living.  This  started  a  big  to-do  with  my  broom  again,  they  grabbed  it  away  from  me  and  started  to  fighting  till  I  could  get  that  settled.  A  person  has  to  stand  up  to  being  a  person,  I  said,  and  you  couldn't  throw  wrongdoing  on  a  company.  It  really  wasn't  anything  ex-  cept  the  people  in  it.  But  even  so  he  shouldn't  get  killed  (the  big  financing  man),  he  should  just  have  the  chance,  by  us  asking  nice  and  kind,  to  give  the  land  back.  Boy  people  are  so  frisky.  Without  me  expecting  it,  this  set  a  whole  new  cominotion  to  going.  He  didn't  deserve  a  chance,  my  boy  said,  he  strictly  need-  ed  killing.  And  he  showed  how  he  was  going  to  hold  him  down  with  one  foot  and  mash  him  with  the  other,  practiced  on  a  little  fellow  that  didn't  seem  to  mind.  Children  talkso  big-I'd  better  pay  less  heed.  I  jingled  my  keys  as  loud  as  I  could  to  get  them  quiet  again.  There  isn't  anything  in  the  world,  I  told  them,  that  we  can't  take  it  in  our  heads  to  go  and  try  to  do.  Justlook  at  these  keys-I'd  started  out  with  none  and  now  I  had  all  these.  After  while  they'dgive  me  more  and  I  could  let  him  out.  Then  the  boy  that's  father  lost  the  land  could  go  on  home  and  get  his  business  straight  and  raise  himself  a  family  like  he  ought  to.  But  I  would  not  have  a  killing  now  or  ever.  My  boybroke  down  and  started  in  to  crying.  It  wouldn't  do  him  any  good  to  try  to  raise  a  family,  the  law  hadhad  him  spaded.  But  just  the  same  he'd  use  my  plan  and  get  the  land  part  back,  or  else  if  I  was  wrong  he'd  go  ahead  and  kill  him.  I  thanked  him  for  trying  the  right  way  first  because  I  was  sure  that  no  man,  even  a  com-  pany  man,  would  keep  his  papa's  rightful  land  just  over  a  set  of  fur-  niture.  I  was  sorry  I  had  gotten  myself  into  this,  but  Mama  always  said  if  you  let  somebody  get  ahold  of  your  property  and  don't  say  anything,  the  law  will  let  them  keep  it.  So  this  boy  really  did  need  to  get  home  and  see  about  that  land.  I  had  to  back  my  own  promise,  but I    " b"told  him  it  couldn't  be  today.  I'd  have  to  get  used  to  sweeping  up  in  here  and  then  before  the  regular  sweeper  got  well  Td  let  him  out  with  me.  I  didn't  believe  I'd  trust  him  to  travel  by  him-  self,  as  wild  as  he'd  been  acting.  The  hospital  people  told  me  to  be  extra  careful  about  snapping  my  locks  wherever  I  went  to  clean.  I  promised  that  I  would,  excusing  this  one  patient,  saying  the  promise  out  loud  and  keep-  ing  the  excuse  in  my  own  head.  Sunday  would  be  the  best,  when  our  company  is  the  thickest.  Almost  everybody  that  isn't  already  in  the  hospital  comes  to  see  us  Sunday  and  the  nurses  have  to  dodge  around  to  even  give  their  shots.  They  let  people  in  to  see  the  bad  boys-they  have  a  schoolroom  off  to  one  side  where  they  try  to  teach  them  lessons,  and  the  company  sits  in  there  to  visit  with  their  sons.  My  worry  was  getting  across  the  grounds  once  my  boy  and  I  got  out.  There  were  woods  all  around  the  hos-  pital,  and  if  we  ever  made  the  woods  we  wouldn't  have  to  hide,  the  trees  would  do  it  for  us.  We  wouldn't  even  have  to  bother  about  snakes,  they  slope  off  in  the  gullies  soon  as  it's  cold.  When  I  got  to  thinking  about  it,  I  wondered  how  long  it  would  take  us,  after  the  boy  and  I  slipped  off,  to  walk  clear  down  to  Bogue.  I  could  write  my  brother  that  drives  the  pulp  truck  to  come  and  meet  us  halfway,  but  then  I  guessed  I  wouldn't.  He's  always  break-  ing  down  and  having  to  throw  his  sticks  off  in  the  ditch  while  he  tries  to  buy  a  part.  When  a  person  has  a  hard  life,  you  shouldn't  make  it  harder.  Where  I  had  to  put  my  brooms  was  in  the  linen  closet  and  I  looked  around,  snapping  the  light  on  in  there,  till  I  could  see  a  janitor  suit  and  stuff  it  in  my  bosom.  The  next  day  was  Sunday,  but  it  was  way  too  soon;  we'd  have  to  wait  another.  Families  were  coming  and  going,  though,  as  thick  as  I  re-  membered,  and  nobody  was  quite  as  smart  as  what  they  were  on  weekdays.  By  now  I  had  to  cross  from  one  build-  ing  to  another  to  keep  up  with  my  sweeping  and  I  didn't  even  need  that  key,  they'd  left  the  door  unlocked.  Out  on  the  grounds  I  picked  up  two  passes  that  people  had  thrown  away  to  keep  their  purses  clean.  They  were  all  the  same  pink,  with  only  writing  different,  and  the  gate  men  didn't  write  so  well-they  both  were  hard  to  read.  WELL,  when  the  next  Sunday  came  I  decided  we  would  try  it.  The  time  came  for  me  to  go  and  check  the  bad  boys'  room  and  it  was  awfully  dirty,  because  most  of  thethings  their  people  brought  them  they  either  tore  to  pieces  or  threw  down  on  the  floor.  I  did  my  picking  up-the  school  place  was  full  of  families-but  my  boy  was  standing  ready  and  I  gave  him  the  janitor  suit  and  told  him  to  go  in  the  toilet  room  and  put  it  on  as  hasty  as  he  could.  When  he  came  back  out  I  was  right  proud  of  him,  he  looked  so  nice  dressed  up  like  a  janitor  I  knew  he  wouldn't  kill.  The  nurses  were  letting  families  in  and  out  and  I  and  my  boy  used  our  key  when  no  one  was  crowd-  ing  by  and  were  tipping  down  the  hall  without  a  notice.  The  door  to  the  grounds  was  locked  this  time,  but  I  quick  gotout  my  key,  and  as  soon  as  we  were  outside  I  told  him  to  help  me  gather  up  Mounds  wrappers  and  Doublemint,  things  like  that,  so  we  would  look  real  busy.  I  picked  the  most  crowded  of  the  gates-they  were  stand-  ing  open  for  automobiles  to  travel  in  and  out-and  I  interrupted  the  gate  gentleman  from  talking  to  two  people  and  also  on  the  phone  to  give  him  my  keys  and  thank  him  to  turn  them  in.  We'd  be  back  next  week,  I  said,  we  had  to  right  a  wrong  and  that  was  all  we  wanted.  He  was  about  as  mixed  up  as  a  person  can  get,  but  my  keys  fooled  him  and  he  said  to  wait  till  he  had  time  to  telephone  on  them,  so  we  stood  by  a  little  while,  but  more  families  were  parked  in  line  and  he  forgot  the  keys  in  signing  them  their  passes.  An  ambu-  lance  got  in  the  line  of  cars  and  every-  body  had  to  clear  forward  with  its  siren.  We  got  behind  a  line  of  privet  bushes  and  stayed  behind  them  till  we  crept  down  near  the  woods.  Then  we  didn't  hurry  but  went  straight  into  the  trees.  I  meant  to  ask  the  Lord  if  this  was  in  accordance  with  His  will,  but  it  seemed  like  I  had  got  my  hands  so  full  I  just  believed  it  was  or  believed  I  would  have  time  soon  to  ask  and  now  just  went  ahead.  My  boy  was  worse  off  with  sticker  bushes  than  I  was-hadn't  ever  crashed  through  any-and  I  had  to  show  him  deer  paths  and  other  spe-  cial  ways  of  keeping  in  the  clear.  He  was  a  brave  little  fellow,  and  every-  where  I  went  he  tracked  right  on  be-  hind  me.  I  knew  by  the  first  time  I  had  got  drove  to  the  hospital  that  the  sun  was  behind  us  then  and  it  was  behind  us  now,  so  it  was  back  at  the  hospital  and  we  were  heading  west  just  like  we  should  be.  They  would  natural-  ly  be  wanting  to  get  us  back,  but  un-  less  we  lost  our  way  I  didn't  think  they  could.  I  asked  my  boy  to  promise  he  wouldn't  hurt  a  soul  and  he  said  he  had  the  need  of  a  good  killing  to  have  that  much  of  fun,  but  after  I  was  the  one  that  let  him  out  he  would  follow  my  way  and  give  the  man  a  chance  before  " b"we  killed  him.  It  looked  to  me  like  he  was  partly  catch-  ing  on.  When  night  came,  the  sun  went  down  right  where  it  was  supposed  to  go,  so  we  better  cut  a  little,  we  were  headed  straight  for  King.  Bogue  County  is  be-  low  King,  across  Fornika  Creek,  and  if  we  went  through  King  I'd  have  a  dozen  friends  to  stop  and  tell.  It  got  to  sitting  on  my  mind  that  we  were  up  to  a  mighty  unusual  thing,  but  the  base  of  it  was  right  if  we  could  hold  the  rest.  We  slept  that  night  leaning  up  against  trees  and  found  a  nice  trickle  of  water  to  drink  from  just  before  we  went  to  sleep  and  again  when  we  woke  up.  Then  we  did  a  powerful  lot  of  travelling  before  the  sun  got  high.  I  knew  that  this  was  Monday,  and  by  the  time  we  finally  got  to  Bogue  and  to  the  special  company,  it  was  on  the  hour  of  clos-  ing.  We  could  hear  the  lock  clicking  right  in  our  faces  while  we  were  knocking  under  the  sign  that  told  the  company  name.  My  boy  was  knocking  a  mite  too  hard,  I  thought,  and  then  be-  fore  any  more  could  happen  a  car  that  turned  out  to  be  the  Sheriff's  drove  up  right  by  our  curb  and  two  men  hopped  out  and  grabbed  my  boy  and  threw  him  in  the  back  and  drove  off  with  him.  This  after  all  that  walk  and  him  not  having  anything  to  eat  for  over  a  whole  day.  I  tried  my  best  to  climb  in  with  them  so's  to  explain  about  our  business,  but  the  police  pushed  me  away  and  drove  off  with  the  fire  alarm  turned  on.  I  hoped  they  couldn't  hurt  him  for  hard  knocking.  Stood  therea  minute,  guessed  I  bet-  ter  turn  around  and  walk  back  to  the  hospital,  but  it  was  a  powerful  long  way  and  my  legs  were  given  out.  I  was  still  standing  there  about  to  drop  I  was  so  tired,  and  grieving  too  about  my  boy,  when  a  kind  looking  old  gentleman  opened  the  door  and  told  me  I  was  late.  They  closed  at  five  sharp,  he  said,  but  he  wanted  me  to  come  in  and  tell  him  what  was  going  on,  who  that  boy  was,  trying  to  knock  his  door  down,  and  why  the  police  got  him.  I  was  lucky  to  have  a  hair  left  on  my  head,  the  old  gentleman  said,  running  around  with  such.  I  excused  the  fact  that  his  first  ques-  tion  seemed  like  he  knew  the  answer  to  it,  because  at  least  I  would  have  the  luck  now  to  tell  him  about  the  natural  yellow  wood,  and  how  they  didn't  un-  derstand  the  box  that  they  had  marked  in  when  they  put  their  signing  on.  He  did  so  know  who  the  boy  was,  because  he  went  and  got  a  file  and  opened  it  on  his  desk.  I  must  of  mixed  things  up,  he  said,  by  getting  myself  so  tired.  He  was  a  very  nice  man-religious  too,  because  he  had  pictures  of  the  Holy  Family  hanging  everywhere,  and  Jesus  on  the  Mount  dividing  up  the  fishes.  He  tooka  spell  of  staring  at  the  ceiling,  and  he  said  his  problem  was  trying  to  be  fair  to  everyone.  He  could  see  what  I  was  driving  at,  but  he  would  have  to  start  from  scratch  to  learn  me  any  busi-  ness  and  with  his  supper  ready  and  his  wife  as  old  as  he  was  he  would  have  to  make  it  short.  And  he  straightened  out  his  hands  inside  his  cuffs.  You  couldn't  force  people  to  have  plenty  of  money,  he  said.  Some  people  wouldn't  no  matter  how  you  tried.  The  Bible  pointed  that  out,  he  said-  the  poor  are  always  with  us.  Now  he  was  a  dedicated  Christian  person,  try-  ing  to  do  all  he  could  right  at  this  desk  givingpeople  money  to  get  started.  They  had  every  right  to  go  out  and  pay  off  their  debts  and  make  more  with  what  was  left  instead  of  burying  their  talent  like  the  lazy  servant  had.  But  instead  of  doing  this  they  gave  way  to  everything  under  the  sun  they  didn't  need,  just  like  this  yellow  furniture  in  the  file-four  hundred  eighty  dollars  and  he  had  to  try  to  get  his  loan  money  back  before  the  next  fellow  came  along  in  a  bigger  mess  than  they  were.  This  boy  was  a  good  example,  he  threatened  to  kill  because  the  law  of  the  land  had  worked.  It  was  terrible,  he  said,  but  there  it  was,  and  he  gave  me  credit  for  understanding  both  sides  of  the  matter  and  seeing  all  the  problems.  Well,  I  thanked  him  for  the  chair  rest  (he  gave  me  a  writing  pen  with  the  company's  name  on  it)  but  I  was  way  out  on  the  street  again  and  start-  ing  for  the  hospital  (gota  ride  all  the  way,  thanks  to  the  Good  Lord,  and  made  it  back  that  night)  before  I  un-  derstood  that  in  spite  of  his  good  knowl-  edge-the  finance-company  man-he  hadn't  ever  known  he  had  the  chance. "