 b"THE  Editor  of  SHOCK  ART  has  hardly  to  say  that  the  amazing  fecundity  ofthe  LeDuff-Galerie  Z  controversy  during  the  past  five  numbers  has  enflamed  both  shores  of  the  Atlantic,  at  intense  length.  We  did  not  think  anyone  would  care,  but  apparently,  a  harsh  spot  has  been  touched.  It  is  a  terrible  trouble  to  publish  an  international  art-journal  in  two  languages  simultaneously,  and  the  opportunities  for  dissonance  have  not  been  missed.  We  will  accept  sole-  ly  one  more  correspondence  on  this  matter,  addressed  to  our  editorial  of-  fices,  6,  Viale  Berenson,  20144  Milano  (4974616c79),  and  that  is  the  end.  Following  is  a  poor  selection  of  the  recent  re-  verberations.  Nicolai  Pont  Editore  Sirs:  This  is  to  approximate  a  reply  to  the  reply  of  Doug  LeDuff  to  our  pub-  licity  of  29  December  which  appeared  in  your  journal  and  raised  such  pos-  sibilities  of  anger.  The  fumings  of  Mr.  LeDuff  were  not  unanticipated  by  those  who  know.  However  nothing  new  has  been  proved  by  these  vapour-  ings,  which  leave  our  points  un-  touched,  for  the  most  part,  and  limp  off  into  casuistry  and  vague  threats.  We  are  not  very  intimidated!  The  matters  of  substantial  interest  in  our  original  publicity  are  scathless.  Mr.  LeDuff  clearly  has  the  opinion  that  the  readers  of  SHOCK  ART  are  dulls,  which  we  do  not.  Our  contention  that  the  work  of  Mr.  LeDuff  the  Ameri-  can  are  sheer  copyings  of  the  work  of  our  artist  Gianbello  Bruno  can  be  sustained  by  ruthless  scholarship,  of  the  type  that  Mr.  LeDuff  cannot  for  obvious  reasons,  bear  to  produce.  But  the  recipient  of  today's  art-scene  is  qualified  enough  to  judge  for  himself.  We  need  only  point  to  the  1958  ex-  position  at  the  Galerie  Berger,  [REDACTED],  in  which  the  &quot;asterisk&quot;  series  of  Bruno  was  first  inserted,  to  see  what  is  afoot.  The  556e6974656420537461746573n  makes  the  claim  that  he  has  been  painting  asterisks  since  1955-we  say,  if  so,  where  are  these  asterisks?  In  what  collections?  In  what  expositions?  With  what  docu-  mentation?  Whereas  the  accomplish-  ment  of  the  valuable  Bruno  is  fully  documented,  by  the  facts  and  other  printed  materials,  as  was  brought  out  in  our  original  publicity.  That  LeDuff  has  infiltrated  the  collectors  of  four  continents  with  his  importunity  proves  nothing,  so  much  so  as  to  be  dismissive  and  final.  Of  course  the  fully  556e6974656420537461746573n  atti-tude  of  the  partisans  of  LeDuff,  that  there  is  nothing  except  [REDACTED],  is  evident  here  in  the  apparently  fair  evaluation  of  the  protagonists  which  is  in  fact  deeply  biased  in  the  direction  of  their  native  land.  The  manifestation  of  Mr.Ringwood  Paul  in  your  most  recent  number,  wherein  he  points  out  (correctly)  that  the  asterisks  of  Le-  Duff  are  six-pointed  versus  the  aster-  isks  of  Bruno  which  have  uniformly  five  points,  is  not  a  &quot;knock-out  blow.&quot;  In  claiming  severe  plastic  originality  for  LeDuff  on  this  score,  Mr.  Paul  only  displays  the  thickness  of  entrenched  opinion.  It  is  easy,  once  one  has  &quot;bor-  rowed&quot;  a  concept  from  another  artist,  to  add  a  little  small  improvement,  but  it  is  not  so  easy  to  put  it  back  again  without  anyone  noticing!  Finally,  the  assertion  of  the  estimable  critic  (Ameri-  can  again,  we  understand!)  Paula  Marf  that  the  moir\xc3\xa9  effect  achieved  by  both  Bruno  and  LeDuff  by  the  superimposition  of  many  asterisks  on  many  other  asterisks  is  an  advancement  created  by  LeDuff  alone  and  then  adduced  by  Bruno,  is  flatly  false.  Must  we  use  carbon-dating  on  these  recent  peintures  to  establish  truth,  as  if  we  were  archeologists  faced  with  an  ex-  hausted  culture?  No,  there  are  liv-  ing  persons  among  us  who  remember.  To  support  this  affair  with  references  to  the  &quot;idealism&quot;  of  the  ceuvre  of  LeDuff  is  the  equivalent  of  saying,  'Yes,  mostly  his  shirts  are  clean.&quot;  But  the  clean  shirt  of  LeDuff  conceals  that  which  can  only  throw  skepticism  on  this  ceuvre.  Bernardo  Brown  H.  L.  AKEFELDT  Galerie  Z  Milan  Sirs:  The  whole  thing  is  to  make  me  smile.  What  do  these  556e6974656420537461746573ns  want?  They  come  over  here  and  everyone  in-  stalls  them  in  the  best  hotels  with  lavish  napery,  but  still,  complaints  of  every  kind.  Profiting  unduly  from  the  at-  tentions  of  rich  bourgeois,  they  then  emplane  once  again  for  [REDACTED],  rich-  er  and  thoughtful  of  coming  again  to  again  despoil  our  bourgeois.  Doug  Le-  Duff  is  apig  and  a  child,  but  so  are  his  enemies.  Pino  VIrr  Rome  Caro  NIKKI  May  I  point  out  the  facility  of  the  LeDuff-Galerie  Z  debate  that  you  have  allowed  to  discolor  your  pages  for  many  months  now?  Whether  or  not  " b"you  were  admirable  in  your  decision  to  accept  for  publication  the  Galerie  Z  advertisings  defaming  LeDuff  (whom  I  personally  feel  to  be  a  monger  of  dampish  wallpaper)  is  not  for  me  to  state,  although  you  were  clearly  in-  credible,  good  faith  notwithstanding.  I  can  only  indicate,  from  the  womb  of  history,  that  both  LeDuff  and  Bruno  have  impersonated  the  accomplishments  of  the  Magdeburg  Handwerker  (May  14,  1938).  Hugo  Timme  Diisseldorf  Sirs:  The  members  of  the  SURFACE  Group  (Basel)  are  unfalteringly  sup-  portive  of  the  immense  [REDACTED]  mas-  ter,  Doug  LeDuff.  Gianni  ARNAN  Michel  PIK  Zin  REGALE  Erik  Zorn  Basel  EDITORE (if  any)  SHOCK  ART  Milano  The  most  powerful  international  in-  terests  of  the  gallery-critic-collector  cartel  have  only  to  gain  by  the  obfusca-  tions  of  the  LeDuff-Galerie  Z  bicker-  ings.  How  come  you  have  ignored  Elaine  Grasso,  whose  work  of  now  many  years  in  the  field  of  parentheses  is  entirely  propos?  Magda  Baum  Rotterdam  Sirs:  SHOCK  ART  is  being  used  unforsee-  ably  in  this  affair.  The  asterisk  has  a  long  provenance  and  is  neither  the  formulation  of  LeDuff  nor  of  Bruno  either,  in  any  case.  The  asterisk  (from  the  Greek  asteriskos  or  small  star)  presents  itself  in  classical  mythology  as  the  sign  which  Hera,  enraged  by  yet  another  of  Zeus's  manifold  infidelities,  placed  on  the  god's  brow  while  he  slept,  to  remind  him  when  he  gazed  in  the  mirror  in  the  morning  that  he  should  be  somewhere  else.  I  plead  with  you,  Sig.  Pont,  to  publish  my  letter,  so  that  people  will  know.  G. PHILIOS Athens  Caro  Pont,  It  was  kind  of  you  to  ask  me  to  comment  on  the  good  fight  you  are  making  in  your  magazine.  A  poor  critic  is  not  often  required  to  consult  on  these  things,  even  though  he  may  have  much  better  opinions  than  those  who  are  standing  in  the  middle,  be-  cause  of  his  long  and  careful  training  in  ignoring  the  fatigues  of  passionate  involvement-if  he  has  it!  Therefore,  calmly  and  without  prej-  udice  toward  either  party,  let  us  exam-  ine  the  issues  with  an  unruffled  eye,  Le-  Duff's  argument  (in  SHOCK  ART  $37)  that  an  image,  once  floated  on  the  in-  ternational  art-sea,  is  a  fish  that  any-  one  may  grab  with  impunity,  and  make  it  his  own,  would  not  persuade  an  oyster.  Questions  of  primacy  are  not  to  be  scumbled  in  this  way,  which,  had  he  been  writing  from  a  European  perspec-  tive,  he  would  understand,  and  be  ashamed.  The  brutality  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  rape  ofthe  world's  exhibition  spaces  and  organs  of  art-information  has  distanciated  his  senses.  The  historical  aspects  have  been  adequately  trodden  by  others,  but  there  is  one  category  yet  to  be  entertained-that  of  the  psycho-  logical.  The  fact  that  LeDuff  is  replicat-  ed  in  every  museum,  in  every  journal,  that  one  cannot  turn  one's  gaze  with-  out  bumping  into  this  raw  plethora,  LeDuff,  LeDuff,  LeDuf  (whereas  poor  Bruno,  the  true  progenitor,  is  eating  the  tops  of  bunches  of  carrots)-  what  has  this  done  to  LeDuff  himself?  It  has  turned  him  into  a  dead  artist,  but  the  corpse  yet  bounces  in  its  grave,  calling  attentions  toward  itself  in  the  most  unseemly  manner.  But  truth  can-  not  be  swallowed  forever.  When  the  real  story  of  low  optical  stimulus  is  indited,  Bruno  will  be  rectified.  Titus  Toselli  Dolla  Palermo  "