 b"THIS WEEK'S QUESTION: HOW DO YOU THINK WATERGATE WILL AFFECT THE ENERGY CRISIS? WENDELL R.  STacks,  University Professor,  Ann  Arbor,  MicHican:  The  question  is  whether  the  President  retains  the  moral  authority  required  of  a  leader  asking  sacrifices  from  the  citi-  zenry  at  large.  For  example,  my  wife  has  voluntarily  discontinued  use  of  our  electric  plum-pitter.  She  now  pits  plums  manually.  We  do  it  together,  really,  as  a  family.  We  have  reminded  our  son,  who  happens  to  be  a  warlock  in  [REDACTED],  how  much  kerosene  is  re-  quired  even  for  the  ritualistic  burn-  ing  of  the  eye  of  a  newt  or  the  tail  of  a  frog-reminded  him  not  because  we  want  to  impose  our  will  on  him,  you  understand,  but  merely  to  keep  him  aware  of  the  priorities.  As  our  family  makes  these  sacrifices,  though,  there  is  one  thing  I  can't  help  wondering  about  the  White  House:  Does  that  paper  shredder  of  theirs  run  on  electricity?  MRS. ETHEL GRABZNIK, HOUSEWIFE, NAMED TYPICAL MAJORITY VOTER  IN  1972,  Dayton,  [REDACTED]:  I'm  sorry.  I  speak  for  quotation  only  to  Douglas  Kiker. PEMBROKE BARSTOW,  PHILANTHROPIST  AND  YACHTSMAN,  Hobe  [REDACTED], [REDACTED] The  problem  was  those  tacky  little  people  in  their  motorboats.  I've  always  said  the  problem  was  those  tacky  little  people  in  their  motorboats.  Now  that  the  gov-  ernment  realizes  they're  the  problem,  their  gas  will  be  taken  away  and  they'll  have  to  go  back  where  they  came  from,  and  we  environmentalists  will  get  some  peace.  It's  about  goddam  time.  I  gave  three  hundred  thousand  dollars  to  the  Nixon  cam-  paign  in  unmarked  eight-cent  stamps  in  1972,  and  if  they'll  keep  the  gas  away  from  those  tacky  little  people  in  their  motor-  boats  I'll  give  three  hundred  thousand  more.  That's  a  promise.  " b"Maureen  Baker  Lvrtox,  Executive Director  Conspiracy  Research  Institute,  Her-mosa  Beach,  [REDACTED]:  I  think  the  question  to  ask  is:  Who  would  have  the  most  to  gain  if  James  McCord  (who  se  whole  career  has  been  in  electronics,  remember;  Hunt  is  the  writer)  hap-  pens  to  write  a  letter  that  lets  slip  certain  infor-  mation  that  leads  to  televised  congressional  hear-ings  that  pre\xc3\xa9mpt  &quot;As  the  World  Turns&quot;  (a  tele-  vision  show  -electronics  again'!  ),  which  leads  housewives  who  would  normally  spend  their  afternoons  watching  at  home  to  drive  their  cars  to  shopping  centers  instead,  which,  at  the  same  time  (when  you  think  of  all  the  infinite  variety  of  times  it  could  be  ),  increases  public  consciousness  of  the  so-called  &quot;gas  shortage&quot;  in  a  way  that  osten-  sibly  has  no  connection  at  all  with  James  McCord?  And  I  think  the  answer  is  obvious. Victor Grabznik, Electrical Contractor, Dayton,  [REDACTED]:  Look,  I  got  this  Chevy  Impala  hard-  top  with  tape  deck,  factory  air,  and  wide  tracks,  right?  Tha  t's  not  a  night  club;  what  we're  talking  about  is  a  family  car,  if  you  know  what  I  mean.  O.K.,  so  we  drive  maybe  once  every  other  month  to  see  my  brother-in-law  in  Youngstown,  and  I  do  a  steady  seventy  on  the  Interstate,  and  I  get  maybe  twelve  point  six,  twelve  point  seven  miles  to  the  gallon.  So  does  that  sound  like  reason  enough  to  audit  a  person's  tax  returns? Martin  G.  Anderson,  Republican County Chairman, Abnasset County, [REDACTED]  :  I  think  the  first  thing  to  make  clear  is  that  when  people  say  things  like  &quot;the  lights  are  burning  late  at  the  White  House  these  days,&quot;  they  are  m  er  ely  using  a  figure  of  speech.  There  is  no  proof  what-  ever  that  the  lights  at  the  White  House  are  burn-  ing  later  than  they  have  burned  before,  and  I  think  the  American  people,  with  their  traditional  fair-  mindedness,  know  this.  Even  if  the  lights  were  turned  on,  there  is  still  no  proof  that  they  were  turned  on  under  this  Administration.  These  things  have  been  going  on  for  years.  President  Nixon  still  lunches  on  cottage  cheese,  which  requires  no  cooking.  Also,  I  understand  he  spends  many  hours  sitting  alone  in  the  dark.  "