 b"A  CONCERT  was  held  last   night  at  Carnegie  Hall  to  honor  the  great  French  modernist  Marcel  Crise  for  his  seventy-five  years  as  a  leader  of  the  avant-garde.  As  is  now  well  known,  Crise  first  star-  tled  his  contemporaries  in  1914  by  commissioning  Lyon  and  [REDACTED],  the  [REDACTED]  instrument-makers,  to  build  a  person-shaped  case  of  green  plush  for  him  to  squat  in  while  on  tour-an  al-  ternative,  as  heput  it,  to  &quot;the  garlic-  stench  of  the  common  French  railway  carriage.&quot;  He  said  that  he  much  preferred  to  ride  in  the  bag-  gage  car,  along  with  the  mailbags  and  the  bass  viols,  who  &quot;know  their  place  and  aren't  always  asking  to  bor-  row  your  newspaper.&quot;  An  intense  aris-  tocratic  iconoclasm  and  a  passionate  loathing  of  all  modern  French  com-  posers,  including  himself,  surely  mark  him  as  an  original  and  the  most  influ-  ential  figure  of  the  destructionist  school  (Ecole  Crise,  78  Rue  des  Grenouilles  Mortes,  [REDACTED])  that  bears  his  name.  In  a  continuing  effort  to  fully  in-  volve  all  those  present  with  last  night's  musical  experience,  the  musical  direc-  tor,  Cl\xc3\xa9ment  Loges-Compl\xc3\xa9tes,  had  the  members  of  the  orchestra  dispersed  among  the  ticket-holders,  in  regular  seats.  Loges-Compl\xc3\xa9tes  himself  sat  in  Seat  C-103  throughout  the  evening  and  conducted  with  the  aid  of  a  small  dental  mirror  held  in  his  left  hand.  The  strings  and  winds  were  concentrated  mainly  in  the  side  aisles,  while  the  xylophonist,  who  arrived  late  owing  to  a  &quot;hassle  with  a  gypsy  cabbie,&quot;  set  up  in  the  cloakroom,  whose  acoustics,  it  soon  be-  came  clear,  rival,  if  not  exceed,  those  of  the  main  hall.  The  total  effect  was  elec-  tric  and  startling;  the  daring  juxtaposi-  tion  of  performers  with  listeners  stimu-  lated  members  of  both  groups  to  leave  the  hall  humming  and  conversing  ani-  matedly,  many  of  them  during  the  first  selection.  Although  most  of  last  night's  pro-  gram  was  devoted  to  the  daring  Crise  ceuvre,  a  bow  to  the  classics  was  made  in  the  opening  choice  of  Mozart's  Pi-  ano  Concerto  No.  25  in  C  (K.  503).  Even  here,  however,  Loges-Compl\xc3\xa9etes,  doubling  at  the  keyboard,  broke  new  musical  ground  by  inviting  volunteers  from  the  audience  to  come  up  onstage and  help  him  play  the  Alberti  bass,  a  repetitious  left-hand  arpeggio  figure  that  he  claimed  to  find  boring.  The  ex-  ecution  of  the  figure  by  Elvira  (Mrs.  Hermann)  Rosebud,  a  baker's  wife  from  Maspeth,  LI.,  showed  clarity,  style,  and  wit.  Crise  himself,  now  eighty-six  but  in  magnificent  form,  arrived  at  the  con-  cert  after  the  completion  of  the  Mozart  selection  (&quot;Just  late  enough  to  miss  the  little  Viennese  ponce,&quot;  he  said,  twin-  kling),  and  had  his  limousine  drive  him  directly  tohis  seat  in  Row  D,  thus  provoking  a  sensation  perhaps  rivalled  only  by  the  famous  world  premi\xc3\xa9re  of  Stravinsky's  &quot;Sacre  du  Printemps,&quot;  over  half  a  century  ago.  In  the  first  Crise  piece  on  the  program,  &quot;Morceau  pour  Clarinette  en  Revers,&quot;  the  com-  poser  is  seen  to  employ  the  standard  sonata  form;  however,  the  soloist  is  di-  rected  to  inhale  on  his  instrument  in-  stead  of  blowing  into  it,  as  is  tradition-  al.  When  this  is  correctly  performed,  only  the  bell  of  the  clarinet  is  visible  after  the  end  of  the  first  movement,  at  which  point  a  short  intermission  is  called.  The  selection  is  then  customarily  completed  at  any  nearby  throat  clinic.  Last  night,  events  exceeded  all  expec-  tation;  by  the  fiftieth  bar  of  the  open-  ing  rondeau,  the  soloist's  face  resem-  bled  a  damson  plum,  and  the  sound  &quot;gak&quot;  was  clearly  heard  in  duple  time,  precisely  as  called  for  by  the  score.  Crise,  highly  stimulated  by  the  performance,  had  to  be  calmed  by  his  wife,  Mme.  Crise,  who  repeatedly  smacked  him  on  the  back  of  the  head  with  a  knotted  towel.  RIGINALLY  a  member  of  Les  Six  (&quot;The  Group  of  Seven,&quot;  which  includ-  ed  Poulenc,  Chabrier,  Auric,  Glinka,  Winka,  and  Nod),  Crise  broke  from  their  &quot;absurd  posturings&quot;  in  1926  to  evolve  some  absurd  posturings  of  his  own,  among  which  his  &quot;Opus  12&quot;  is  the  best  example.  Crise's  &quot;Opus  12&quot;  is  actually  Mah-  ler's  Ninth  Symphony,  transcribed  and  re-  duced  to  a  single  wind  part.  Originallychar-  acterized  by  Hindemith  as  &quot;a  cheap  frog  trick,&quot;  this  piece  has  stubbornly  " b"remained  in  the  concert  repertoire,  probably  because  itis  the  only  one  in  the  entire  literature  which  calls  for  the  English  horn  to  be  used  as  a  drumstick.  Crise's  prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9,  the  English  hornist  Hampton  Bays,  flew  to  New  York  es-  pecially  to  honor  his  mentor,  and  after  the  performance  contributed  some  in-  sight  into  Crise's  early  training.  In  an  exclusive  interview,  Bays  reminded  this  reviewer  that  &quot;although  Maestro  studied  daily  with  Boulanger,  he  always  walked  home  with  Var\xc3\xa9se.&quot;  When  asked  to  list  the  qualities  required  for  artistic  immortality,  Bays  suggested,  &quot;The  heart  of  an  angel,  the  courage  of  a  lion,  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.&quot;  Crise  spent  the  winter  and  spring  of  1915  collecting  the  folk  songs  of  Bul-  garia,  which  became  the  basis  of  the  Double  Pianoforte  Concerto  in  J  Flat.  (When  asked  by  the  aging  Debussy  just  what  the  key  of  J  Flat  was  sup-  posed  to  mean,  the  exfant  terrible  replied,  &quot;What  would  you  like  it  to  mean,  beard-face?&quot;  Debussy  is  then  supposed  to  have  picked  up  the  young  composer  by  the  ear  and  hung  him  on  a  coat  hook.)  The  Argentinian  piano  duo  of  Cranshaw  and  Casiba  Melon  performed  the  Concerto  last  night  with  their  customary  brio,  stopping  after  each  twelve  bars  to  acknowledge  the  applause  with  smiles  and  mutual  back-  slapping.  The  atonal  &quot;Five  Queries  for  String  Quartet  and  Theremin&quot;  was  composed  by  Crise  while  recovering  from  an  eye  infection  contracted  by  peering  through  akeyhole  into  his  own  closet.  For  years,  Crise  had  decried  serial  composition  and  its  practitioners-Schoenberg,  Berg,  and  Webern-as  &quot;artificial,  dry,  fetid,  ugly,  loathsome,  repulsive,  and  devoid  of  any  meaning,&quot;  and  then,  in  1938,  he  abruptly  embraced  the  technique,  explaining,  &quot;I  was  only  kidding-  they're  a  great  bunch  of  fellows.&quot;  Crise  maintained  a  curious  love-hate  relation-  ship  with  Schoenberg.  The  two  ex-  changed  many  letters,  which  neither  of  them  read,  and  once,  in  1934,  Schoen-  berg  rang  Crise's  bell  and  ran.  The  next  day,  a  letter  appeared  in  the  Newe  Deutsche  Zeitung  which  read,  in  part,  &quot;Today  someone  hand-delivered  a  bad  cheese  to  my  studio  and  fled  before  he  could  be  identified  ...but  I  know  who  it  was.  It  was  Schoenberg.  How  appropriate!  Schoenberg  and  a  bad  cheese-impossible  to  tell  them  apart!  The  joke  is  too  delicious!  Yours  truly,  Marcel  Crise.&quot;  The  Quartet,  like  many  twelve-tone  works,  is  ahighly  in-  tellectual  composition,  dissonant  in  the  extreme,  that  brilliantly  characterizes  the  helplessness  of  the  European  petit-  bourgeois  intelligentsia  before  the  on-  slaught  of  the  flower-print  sports  shirt.  Fleming  Twit,  the  soloist,  enlivened  the  evening  considerably  by  standing  in  a  basin  of  salt  water  while  playing  the  theremin-an  innovation  that  dimmed  nearby  street  lights  and  caused  his  head  to  glow  like  ectoplasm.  CRISE  never  composed  for  the  musi-  cal  stage:  opera  was,  to  him,  a  perplexing  form.  The  notion  of  adults  opening  their  mouths  and  something  other  than  speech  coming  out  gave  him  cxtreme  anxiety.  Once,  at  a  party  in  [REDACTED]  at  the  home  of  Oscar  Le-  vant,  Crise  was  introduced  to  George  Gershwin,  whose  &quot;Porgy  and  Bess&quot;  was  gathering  raves  in  New  York.  Fixing  the  American  with  a  blank  stare,  Crisesang,  &quot;Bess,  ee-yoo  izz  uh-mah  woo-man-uh  na-a-a-a-h-oow,&quot;  distorting  each  dipthong  like  a  dement-  ed  baritone.  Though  intended  as  a  joke,  the  effort  fell  flat;  Gershwin,  offended,  retired  to  his  room  and  in  ten  days  wrote  the  score  of  &quot;Show  Boat&quot;-a  magnificent  but  unnecessary  accomplishment,  since  &quot;Show  Boat&quot;  had  already  been  written  by  Jerome  Kern.  In  1952,  Crise  read  a  description  of  CBSs  Scriabin's  &quot;color  organ,&quot;  a  device  that  projected  various  hues  onto  a  screen  as  music  was  played,  thus  synthesizing  a  visual  experience  with  a  musical  experi-  ence.  Crise,  after  a  series  of  conversa-  tions  with  his  dog,  drew  up  plans  for  a  &quot;Console  Viande,&quot;  through  which  vari-  ous  musical  themes  could  be  represent-  ed  by  different  cuts  of  meat-sirloin,  porterhouse,  top  round,  and  so  forth.  At  the  only  public  performance,  Crise  played  the  Rachmaninoff  Second  Piano  Concerto  on  the  instrument,  and  a  riot  ensued  when  the  orchestra  was  over-  whelmed  by  ground  chuck.  Order  was  restored  only  after  the  police  arrived  with  buns  and  relish.  In  his  seventh  decade,  Crise  became  intensely  reflective  and  turned  to  the  Eastern  philosophers  in  an  attempt  to  solve  the  mystery  of  man's  place  in  the  universe  and  to  make  his  necktie  ends  come  out  even.  The  short  but  poignant  &quot;Cymbal  Sonata&quot;  is,  many  feel,  the  definitive  Western  comment  on  the  writings  of  Lao-tzu.  At  the  perform-  ance  last  night,  the  Zen  percussionist  Sri  Murtishamaramayana  appeared,  as  usual,  with  one  cymbal,  but  couldn't  seem  to  get  any  thing  going  and  quitthe  stage  after  forty-seven  minutes.  The  spotlight  then  picked  out  Marcel  Crise  in  his  seat,  and  the  crowd,  exhilarated  but  emotionally  drained  by  the  events  of  the  evening,  gave  him  a  crouching  ovation. "