 b"LYING  on  a  haystack,  Girolamo  I  picks  a  smooth  golden  straw-  one  that  the  rain  hasn't  black-  ened-and  makes  of  it  a  ring  around  Fiorella's  finger.  He  does  the  same  in  the  field  with  a  blade  of  grass,  then  stretches  it  vertical  between  his  thumbs  and  blows  on  it,  raising  a  silence,  sundering  sound.  And  in  the  woods  he  uses  gorse.  Always  on  Sundays.  On  weekdays,  he  works  grazing  his  flock  way  upon  the  slopes  of  the  mountain.  &quot;When  are  you  going  to  put  a  real  ring  around  my  finger?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;Soon,  soon,&quot;  he  replies,  and  won-  ders.  Her  head  is  resting  on  his  arm.  They  are  both  looking  up  at  the  sky.  &quot;Soon,&quot;  he  says  again,  wistfully.  He  has  to  tend  the  sheep  many  more  months  before  he  will  have  sold  enough  wool,  enough  cheese,  for  the  ring  and  the  house.  She,  too,  is  working  at  it.  She  sews  all  day  and  knits  evenings.  She  cuts.  She  embroiders  on  her  cloth  and  her  future.  Her  life  is  fleece-white  ;  it  is  rose;  it  is  golden.  The  pillow-  cases  have  her  and  Girolamo's  initials  entwined.  She  dreams  of  the  house:  the  brick  floor  is  waxed;  the  fireplace  in  the  kitchen  is  lighted,  the  flames  lick  the  crown  and  roots  of  a  chestnut  and  shine  on  the  brass  of  the  firedogs;  the  water  in  the  lidded  black  cal-  dron  over  the  flames  is  getting  hotter  and  hot-  ter.  After  supper,  Gir-  olamo  will  lift  it  off  the  hook  and  carry  it  to  the  sink  for  her.  The  sink  is  of  stone-one  huge  slab,  carved  hol-  low  and  so  smooth  no  grease  will  stick  to  it.  The  sheet  she's  hem-  ming  is  one  of  a  stack.  They  will  smell  good  in  the  closet  from  lav-  ender  stems  twisted  back  over  the  blossoms  and  tied  in  the  shape  of  a  spool.  Girolamo,  too,  has  visions  of  what  the  house  will  be  like.  He  sees  heavy  salamis  hanging  from  rafters,  hams  well  coated  with  pepper,  festoons  of  sausages,  drums  of  cheese  oiled  on  the  sur-  face  and  aging.  He  wonders  if  he  will  have  a  car.  To  have  one,  the  road  must  be  improved.  The  big  cobblestones  are  all  right  for  mules  and  his  donkey,  but  for  acar  he  must  get  fine  gravel.  And  the  last  stretch  may  be  too  steep,  even  in  first  gear.  The  house  isn't  ready.  So  far,  it  isn't  much  more  than  a  barn-a  barn  and  a  pen-on  the  rim  of  the  hamlet,  where  the  road  ends  and  the  paths  start  that  he  and  the  sheep  have  made.  First  thing  to  be  built  is  a  staircase.  The  loft  of  the  barn  must  be  floored,  two  inside  walls  put  up,  doors  hung,  and  several  windows.  They  will  have  a  bathroom.  The  old  people  don't,  but  all  newly-  weds  have  them.  These  things  he  pon-  ders  as  he  grazes  his  sheep.  Sometimes  one  strays  from  the  fold.  Then  he  picks  up  a  stone  and  throws  it  so  it  will  land  beyond  her  and  make  her  turn  back.  He  can  throw  stones  amazingly  far.  Last  year,  he  had  a  dog  he  could  trust.  But  Tosco  died,  and  the  new  one  isn't  so  smart.  Sometimes  he  has  to  walk  miles  for  one  sheep,  and  it  isn't  fun  at  night,  when  you  can  hear  the  wolves  howl.  The  women  here  don't  call  them  wolves  but  refer  to  them  as  &quot;besm-  acce&quot;-&quot;bad  beasts.&quot;  As  with  cancer  and  hail,  there  is  the  feeling  that  nam-  ing  isn't  very  far  from  invoking.  With  the  first  frosts,  the  grass  be-  gins  to  wither,  and  the  sheep  spend  more  time  in  their  pens  or  are  taken  to  greener  pastures.  When  he  was  a  child,  they  took  them  down  to  graze  in  the  lowlandsby  the  sea,  where  the  grass  is  green  all  year  round.  He  used  to  fol-  low  the  flock  down  the  winding  road  to  the  valley,  and  down  the  valley  all  the  way  to  the  sea.  The  journey  lasted  three  days.  The  flock  looked  like  a  cloud  down  the  road,  and  there  would  be  other  flocks  at  short  intervals  before  them  and  after.  Sometimes  in  the  sky  rows  of  clouds  would  take  the  same  route  down  the  valley.  He  followed  the  sound  of  the  sheep's  bells,  and  often,  stick  in  hand,  he  would  have  to  drive  them  to  one  side  to  make  room  fora  car.  In  recent  years,  the  traffic  has  got     " b"so  forbidding  the  shepherds  truck  their  sheep  down  to  their  winter  pastures  or  keep  them  here  on  the  mountain  and  feed  them  hay  and  other  fodder.  That's  what  Girolamo  does.  He  stays.  He  works  on  the  house.  He  saws  timber  for  rafters.  He  carries  bricks  up  from  a  kilnin  the  plain,  and  because  bricks  are  expensive  he  adds  stones-beautiful  square  ones  that  he  finds.  He  mixes  cement,  and  carries  pail  after  pail  up  the  ladder.  But  the  actual  building  is  done  by  a  mason.  The  staircase  is  finished.  It  is  an  outside  one,  on  the  south  side  of  the  house.  Before,  to  get  to  the  second  floor,  there  was  just  a  ladder  to  a  window.  Fiorella  will  have  geraniums  in  pots  on  the  balustrade.  She  has  half  a  dozen  embroidered  new  sheets.  They  are  thick,  rough,  made  of  coarse  linen,  and  they'll  wear  a  long  time.  She  won-  ders  when  she  and  Girolamo  will  sleep  between  them.  She'll  wash  them  down  at  the  hamlet's  fountain,  even  if  they  are  going  to  have  running  water.  There  are  many  days  in  the  winter  when  the  weather  is  so  bad  you  can't  work  outside.  Still,  each  week  some  progress  is  made  on  the  house.  The  days  lengthen.  In  March,  the  slopes  of  the  mountain  are  threaded  with  green-new  green,  fresh  over  the  seared  bladesof  last  year.  In  the  house,  the  partitions  are  up  and  being  plas-  tered.  There's  a  good  smell  of  mortar  about.  New  faces  appear-an  elec-  trician,  a  plumber.  The  house  is  being  wired,  is  being  piped.  Now  for  the  fin-  ishing  touches-the  bathtub,  the  fau-  cets,  the  bowl,  in  the  kitchen  the  sink  and  the  stove.  Soon  Lent  will  be  over,  and  then  ...  HE  day  comes.  A  wedding  is  al-  ways  in  season,  but  best  in  the  spring.  He  has  a  ring  for  her-golden,  just  right.  They  bought  it  down  at  the  village-ten  miles  from  the  hamlet-  one  Saturday  morning.  &quot;A  beautiful  hand,&quot;  the  jeweller  said,  peering  through  his  thick  lenses  close  enough  that  his  lips  skimmed  the  slender  fin-  gers.  The  bridegroom,  in  a  blue  suit  and  white  tie,  looks  unfamiliar,  so  different  from  when  in  the  fields,  his  clothes  faded,  the  sweater  made  of  the  wool  of  his  sheep.  But  he  isn't  self-conscious.  He  smiles;  he  seems  full  of  energy,  zest.  'The  bride  moves  nimbly.  The  white  dress  she  has  made  fits  snug  round  her  waist.  As  they  walk  away  from  the  altar,  she  leans  on  him.  They  seem  to  be  hurrying  toward  the  future  that  beckons  there  beyond  the  door,  which  is  open.  At  the  wedding  recep-ion  they  are  solicitous,  full  of  atten-  tions,  and  go  around  from  one  guest  to  the  other,  welcoming,  toasting,  inviting  people  to  visit  their  home  as  soon  as  they  get  back  from  their  honeymoon- flushed.  His  tie  seems  to  constrict  him.  His  jacket  is  buttoned  up.  And  she  hardly  ever  looks  around  her-she  looks  down  at  her  hands  or  at  him.  In  front  of  them,  a  paunchy  middle-  an  overnight  excursion  to  Rome,  where  &amp;aged  man  is  reading  the  paper.  His  wife  neither  of  them  has  been.  &quot;Oh,  we'll  give  you  time  to  settle  down;  don't  expect  us  for  a  week  or  two,&quot;  a  married  friend  says.  &quot;A  week  or  two?  No,  you  be  sure  and  come  along  before  that!  We  like  company.&quot;  &quot;Company?&quot;  someone  else  says.  &quot;You  don't  need  company  now.  You've  got  each  other  for  that.&quot;  &quot;I  shouldn't  want  any  other  com-  pany,  not  for  years-not  if  I  had  a  warm,  good  little  woman  like  that,&quot;  an  older  guest  says,  with  a  glint  in  his  eyes.  &quot;You  go  slow,  Grandpa,  with  that  kind  of  talk,&quot;  a  relative  says,  and  they  laugh.  Fiorella  and  Girolamo  are  spirited,  joyful  all  through  the  party.  But  on  the  train  to  Rome  they  sit  self-conscious  in  the  compartment;  they  hold  hands;  they  stick  close  together  and  talk  only  in  whispers.  His  face  is     sits  erect,  stern,  disapproving.  Of  what?  There  are  two  tourists-a  young  man  and  a  girl,  in  khaki  shorts  and  gray  sweatshirts,  their  haversacks  on  the  racks  and  a  washed-out  look  on  their  faces.  In  Rome,  the  hotel-the  first  one  either  of  them  ever  has  been  to-  recommended  by  a  friend  is  old,  small,  near  the  station.  She  looks  at  the  sheets-sleazy,  so  thin  they  are  almost  transparent,  and  questionably  clean.  She  touches  the  radiator,  which  is  warm,  though  it  is  April.  At  the  ham-  let,  even  in  winter  they'll  have  no  heat  in  their  bedroom.  To  warm  the  bed,  after  supper  she'll  put  some  live  cinders  from  the  kitchen  hearth  into  an  open  pan,  cover  them  with  ashes,  and  hang  it  from  a  wooden  sledlike  framework  that  she'll  slide  in  between  the  sheets.  It  is  a  luxury  that  even  the  poorest  of  the  poor  can  afford  and  won't  do  without.  The  hotel  room  is  meagre,  but  never  mind-for  dinner  they'll  go  to  a  world-famous  place:  Alfredo's.  They  sit  side  by  side.  At  a  table  op-  posite  theirs,  by  the  wall,  another  cou-  ple  is  sitting,  about  their  age.  She  is  a  striking  brunette  in  a  green  taffeta  dress.  Her  eyebrows,  the  curve  of  her  cheeks  and  mold  of  her  chin  seem  to  have  been  carved  in  one  felicitous  stroke.  She  is  perfectly  at  ease.  And  she  assumes  poses  you  don't  see  up  on  the  mountain.  As  the  young  man  talks  to  " b"her,  she  laughs,  once  or  twice  holding  on  to  his  forearm.  He  has  a  bright  look  about  him;  his  face  lights  up  when  he  speaks;  he  is  spare,  thin-nosed,  tawny-  haired,  and  apparently  very  entertain-  ing.  He's  fussy  about  the  wine.  He  knows  just  what  to  order.  Girolamo  and  Fiorella,  on  the  other  hand,  are  hardly  conversing.  'They  often  gaze  or  catch  each  other  gazing  across  the  tables  at  the  couple  opposite.  The  recipients  of  their  attention  don't  seem  to  mind.  One  passing  look  is  all  that  comes  from  them.  They  say  a  few  words  to  cach  other,  and  a  know-  ing  smile  rests  briefly  on  their  faces.  At  last,  dinner  is  over.  Fiorella  and  Girolamo  go  back  to  their  hotel.  At  last,  they  are  in  bed.  Sleep  should  follow  love,  but  it  doesn't.  She  is  thinking  of  the  girl  in  the  restaurant,  and  the  way  Girolamo  looked  at  her.  He  probably  wishes  he  were  married  to  her.  Up  in  the  hamlet  and  for  miles  around,  she  is  the  prettiest,  but  down  here  where  does  she  stand?  She's  nothing.  Her  looks  are  lost  on  this  city.  He  can't  sleep,  either.  He  still  sees  his  wife  looking  at  the  tawny-haired,  smart-looking  young  man.  He  is  cer-  tain  she  wishes  Ae  were  her  husband.  And  why  shouldn't  shet  What  is  he,  anyway?  A  poor  shepherd,  ignorant  of  the  ways  of  the  world.  &quot;Tell  me  the  truth,&quot;  she  says  in  a  whisper.  &quot;Do  you  wish  I  were  that  girl  who  was  sitting  opposite  us  at  Al-  fredo's?&quot;  &quot;No,  why?&quot;  &quot;You  kept  looking  at  her.&quot;  &quot;Silly,  I  wasn't  looking  at  her,&quot;  Girolamo  says.  &quot;I  was  looking  at  him,  thinking  you  liked  him  better  than  me.  You  had  your  eyes  on  him,  I  know.&quot;  &quot;But  I  didn't!&quot;  says  Fiorella  &quot;She  was  the  one  I  was  looking  at,  thinking  you  wished  you  were  married  to  her.&quot;  &quot;And  I  thought-&quot;  &quot;So  did  I!&quot;  They  laugh.  They  hug  each  other.  Sleep  this  time  follows  love.  HEY  wake  at  six,  the  timethey  usually  rise.  They  can  hear  the  hum  of  the  city.  On  the  mountain,  even  at  noon,  everything  is  so  still  that  if  you  see  a  man  chopping  wood  across  thevalley  you  can  hear  the  sharp  blows  distinctly  seconds  after  they  fall.  That  is,  if  the  wind  doesn't  drown  them.  It  can  howl  for  weeks  without  pause,  till  the  whole  mountain  seems  to  be  shriek-  ing,  for  the  hamlet  is  near  the  divide-  this  side  the  rivers  flow  into  the  Tyr-  rhenian  Sea,  the  other  side  into  the  Adriatic.  Now,  why  would  they  want  to  live  there?  From  down  here  the  hamlet  seems  endlessly  high-way  up,  near  the  stars,  itself  a  constellation  at  night,  and  in  the  daytime  a  few  rocks  (771  put  together  out  of  the  numberless  rocks  of  the  mountain.  Is  it  really  there?  He  thinks  of  his  sheep;  he  knows  each  of  them  one  from  the  other,  and  he  re-  views  them.  It's  a  good  way  of  know-  ing  that  they  are  true.  He  couldn't  possibly  invent  them.  And  the  house  is  true,  and  the  stones  of  the  mountain.  And  the  wind  is  true,  and  the  cries  of  the  wolves.  After  breakfast,  they  visit  the  Colos-  seum  and  St.  Peter's.  In  the  afternoon,  they  have  to  decide  which  of  two  trains  to  take  home.  &quot;Shall  we  take  the  carly  one?&quot;  he  asks.  Yes,&quot;  she  replies.  Soon  the  mountains  appear  in  the  distance,  chain  after  chain.  Somewhere  in  that  misty  blue  a  white  speck  is  their  hamlet,  and  new  and  ready  is  a  house  waiting  for  them;  in  it  a  table  is  laden  with  gifts,  and  a  bed  is  made.  The  pil-  lowcases  have  their  initials  embroid-  ered;  the  covers  are  folded.  They  have  only  to  slip  in.  No-there's  still  a  long  way  to  go.  But  the  train  rushes  on. "