 b"TO  the  best  of  my  recollection,  which  is  porous,  I  think  I  origi-  nally  met  the  firebrand  Mark  Silver  in  connection  with  a  yeasty  pub-  lication  named  Mickey  Finn,  which  a  handful  of  idealists  projected  back  in  1927  in  the  Village.  In  those  days,  it  was  almost  impossible  for  people  wield-  ing  brush  or  pen  to  forgather  down  there  without  founding  a  magazine,  and  this  one  was  evolved  by  a  group  of  us  who  customarily  ate  in  a  restau-  rant  opposite  the  Jefferson  Market  Courthouse.  By  and  large,  we  were  an  unprosperous  lot,  barely  managing  to  scrape  along  on  contributions  to  Life,  Judge,  and  College  Humor,  and  the  prospect  of  havingour  own  forum-  an  American  version  of  Simplictssimus,  as  we  conceived  it,  where  we  could  dis-  charge  our  bile  at  the  Establishment-  excited  us.  The  immediate  task,  we  agreed,  was  to  enlist  a  few  more  kin-  dred  spirits  in  the  enterprise,  and  we  busily  set  about  inviting  whatever  tal-  ent  we  could  recruit  to  a  meeting  at  which  the  style  and  purpose  of  Mickey  Finn  would  be  clarified.  Of  the  dozen  folk  who  showed  up  at  the  meeting,  at  least  half  were  unashamedly,  aggressively  political-  writers  and  artists  whose  work  ap-  peared  in  The  New  Masses,  the  Daily  Worker,  and  the  EFrethceit-and  they  formed  a  very  cohesive  body.  While  the  rest  of  us  were  bombinating  away,  pro-  claiming  thatthe  journal  would  tilt  at  social  pretense,  greed,  and  hypocrisy,  they  listened  woodenly,  now  and  again  exchanging  contemptuous  smiles.  Then  one  of  their  number,  a  shock-  headed,  pugnacious  character  who  introduced  himself  as  Mark  Silver,  the  Daily  Work-  er  columnist,  spoke  up.  The  evils  we  deplored  were  pif-  fling;  our  real  target,  he  an-  nounced,  would  have  to  be  the  capitalist  system.  Into  the  hush  that  followed  there  intruded  the  sound  of  hackles  rising.  So  the  Brillo  boys  fig-  ured  to  turn  our  sheet  into  a  propagan-  da  organ,  did  they?  The  battle  lines  were  drawn,and  we  smote  them  hip  and  thigh.  The  dispute  became  really  acrimonious  when  the  choice  of  an  editor  was  broached.  &quot;Who  needs  an  editor?&quot;  Silver  asked  derisively.  &quot;Pin  the  cartoons  and  articles  on  the  wall  and  let  the  majori-  ty  decide  which  ones  to  print.  That's  the  democratic  way.&quot;  The  hubbub  this  evoked  had  hardly  subsided  when  a  nattily  dressed  strang-  er  arrived  at  the  meeting.  An  adver-     tising  executive  who  had  offered  to  pro-  mote  backing  forthe  venture,  he  was  en  route  to  the  opera  and  was  wearing  a  dinner  jacket.  The  effect  of  his  garh  on  the  radical  splinter  group  was  vol-  canic.  Its  members  rose  to  their  feet  outraged,  surveyed  him   disgustedly,  and  stalked  out.  The  advertising  man,  obviously  appraising  us  as  a  bunch  of  losers,  shrugged  and  followed  suit.  That  sealed  the  fate  of  Mickey  Finn.  VER  the  next  couple  of  years,  I  saw  occasional  mention  of  Mark  Silver  in  the  press-once  concerning  an  agitpropplay  he  had  written  that  had  a  brief  run,  and  again  as  author  of  a  novel  dealing  with  the  plight  of  immigrants  on  the  lower  East  Side.  The  book  proved  a  best-seller,  enabling  him,  according  to  an  interview  I  read,  to  buy  a  chicken  farm  somewhere  in  [REDACTED].  I  suppose  it  was  petty  of  me,  but  I  con-  jured  up  a  vision  of  ten  thousand  Rhode  Island  Reds,  in  Russian  smocks,  pinning  their  eggs  on  the  wall  so  that  they  might  democratically  choose  those  to  be  sent  to  market.  In  any  case,  I  didn't  give  it  very  much  thought,  and  I  certainly  never  dreamed  that  my  fu-  ture  would  be  intertwined  with  Mark  Silver's.  I  was  quite  mistaken.  Late  in  the  autumn  of  1932,  my  wife  and  I  were  living  in  a  so-called  club  hotel  in  43616e616461Fiftics  managed  by  her  brother,  Nathanael  [REDACTED],  then  an  aspiring  nov-  elist,  who  had  turned  the  place  into  a  sort  of  Fort  Zinderneuf,  a  refuge  for  writers  from  the  rigors  of  the  Depres-  sion.  At  one  time,  so  many  literati  were  domiciled  there  on  his  largesse  thatthe  lobby  took  on  the  aspect  of  Yaddo  or  a  book-and-author  lunch-  con.  For  example,  burly  pipe-  smoking  poets  with  thick  or-  ange  neckties-nobody  has  ev-  er  ascertained  why  poets  affect  cravats  with  the  texture  of  caterpillars-stood  around  swapping  metres;  the  girl  at  the  newsstand,  if  asked  for  the  sports  final,  was  likely  to  gaze  at  you  un-  secingly  and  reply  with  a  quatrain  from  Emily  Dickinson.  One  evening,  as  I  was  descending  in  the  elevator,  the  operator  halted  the  car  between  floors  and  swung  around  with  a  determined  gleam  in  his  eye.  I  thought  he  was  about  to  glom  my  wallet,  but  when  he  spoke  it  was  in  the  rich  Stanislavskian  cadences  of  a  Group  Theatre  actor.  &quot;Excuse  me,  [REDACTED];  he  said  deferentially.  &quot;'The  housekeeper  told  me  you  wrote  something  for  [REDACTED]  or  Holly-wood,  I  forget  which.  I'm  scripting  a  play,  too-on  a  Biblical  theme-but  I  got  stuck  in  the  second  act,in  the  ob-  ligatory  scene.  Could  you  recommend  a  good  book  on  construction,  or  would  you  advise  me  to  go  back  to  the  Bible?&quot;  I  advised  him,  and  thereafter  used  the  stairs.  To  return  to  Mark  Silver,  however,  it  was  during  this  period  that  I  began  to  detect  glowing  references  in  my  brother-in-law's  speech  to  Bucks  County,  [REDACTED],  where  he  had  recently  spent  several  weekends.  His  eclogues  on  its  Arcadian  peace,  its  flora  and  fauna,  and  its  architecture  verged  on  rhapsody,  and  inevitably  it  developed  that  he  had  seen  a  wonder-  ful  buy-an  eighty-three-acre  farm  embodying  all  these  features.  This  was,  it  turned  out,  the  farm  Mark  Silver  had  bought,  apparently  as  a  homestead  for  an  indigent  brother  and  his  family,  who  strove  to  raise  chickens  there  with  signal  unsuccess;  and  now,  to  com-  pound  his  troubles,  Silver  was  enmeshed  with  a  tigress  in  New  York  who  was  threatening  a  breach-of-promise  suit.  To  help  him  escape  to  [REDACTED],  which  he  deemed  the  ideal  expedient,  he  was  willing  to  sell  the  property  for  a  token  down  payment  and  illimitable  easy  in-  stallments.  In  [REDACTED]'s  view,  it  was  the  biggest  steal  since  the  theft  of  the  Mona  Lisa  from  the  Louvre.  The  house  was  uninhabited  and  in  rather  sorry  condition  when  my  wife  and  I  inspected  it  a  few  days  later;  judging  from  the  pots  on  the  stove  and  cutlery  encrusted  with  verdigris,  Sil-  ver's  kinsfolk  had  departed  as  abrupt-  ly  as  the  crew  of  the  Mary  Celeste.  Also,  a  tour  of  the  outbuildings  dis-  closed  that  the  family,  after  the  poultry  debacle,  had  turned  their  hand  to  carpentry.  Dozens  of  modernistic  ply-  wood  bookcases,  smeared  with  bronze  radiator  paint  and  weird  tropical  colors,  stood  piled  in  thesheds.  Long  after  we  acquired  the  place,  as  we  seemed  des-  tined  to,  these  monstrosities  harassed  me;  whenever  I  tried  to  chop  them  up  for  kindling,  the  springy  wood  repelled  the  axe  and  perforated  me  with  splin-  ters.  I  eventually  made  a  gigantic  bon-  fire  of  them,  nearly  burning  down  the  barn  in  the  process.  Throughout  our  first  year  of  own-  ership,  we  often  pondered  the  mystery  of  the  Silvers'  precipitate  flight  without  reaching  a  solution.  Then  we  began  to  hear  tantalizing  rumors  about  some  drama  that  had  occurred  on  the  farm-  some  near-fatal  episode  involving  Mark  Silver  and  a  famous  New  York  play-  wright.  Nobody  was  sure  of  the  de-  tails-who  the  playwright  was  or  ex-  actly  what  had  happened-but  there  " b"had  been  gunplay,  it  was  said,  and  the  real  facts  had  been  hushed  up.  Ulti-  mately,  I  managed  to  piece  thestory  together,  and  though  the  principals  never  revealed  it  in  their  lifetime  (and  could  hardly  do  so  afterward,  save  on  the  Quija  board),  the  truth  can  at  last  be  told.  HE  affair  commenced  one  Sunday  morning  asa  real-estate  agent  named  Mrs.  Grundig  was  piloting  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  S.  Kaufman  up  the  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  to  show  them  a  couple  of  farm  properties.  It  had  taken  con-  siderable  persuasion  for  Kaufman,  a  stubborn  city  dweller,  to  agree  to  the  junket;  as  they  rode  along,  he  accused  his  wife,  Beatrice,  of  suffering  from  a  milkmaid  complex  like  Marie  An-  toinette's,  adding  that  he  loathed  the  out-of-doors,  that  rural  living  was  full  of  pitfalls,  and  that  nobody  had  ever  incurred  a  hernia  lifting  a  sandwich  in  Reuben's.  His  wife,  however,  was  en-  raptured  with  the  countryside.  The  greenery  worked  on  her  like  adrenalin,  and  the  farther  they  progressed  into  the  bush  the  more  ecstatic  she  became,  un-  til  Kaufman,  despite  himself,  began  to  thaw.  He  surreptitiously  took  a  deep  breath,  and,  to  his  surprise,  the  fresh  air  did  not  produce  the  convulsions  he  had  expected.  Meanwhile,  up  at  the  Silver  farm  in  the  rolling  hills  beyond  Erwinna,  a  curious  demonstration  was  going  on  in  the  yard.  To  an  audience  composed  of  his  brother,  his  sister-in-law,  and  their  five  children,  Mark  Silver,  a  man  who  could  not  open  an  umbrella  with-  out  puncturing  someone's  lung,  was  explaining  the  intricacies  of  handling  a  shotgun,.  Why  he  was  doing  so  is  inexplicable.  The  class  war  he  was  constantly  ululating  about  in  his  column  was  not  that  imminent,  nor  could  he  have  hoped  to  convert  his  listeners  into  Nimrods,  rich  as  the  region  was  in  game.  &quot;Now,  people,&quot;  he  said,  balancing  the  weapon  on  his  palms,  &quot;pay  close  attention.  This  is  what  we  call  a  six-  teen-gauge  shotgun.  Note  the  double  barrels.&quot;  &quot;Double  barrels,&quot;  his  nieces  and  nephews  dutifully  echoed.  &quot;'These  little  iron  things  sticking  up  along  the  barrels,&quot;  he  continued,  &quot;are  the  sights-to  help  you  aim,  as  you'll  see  later.  But  first,  the  part  back  here.  That's  called  the  breech,  and  the  wooden  end,  which  fits  against  your  shoulder,  is  the  stock.  Now,  watch  what  happens.&quot;  He  slid  the  gun  onto  his  forearm  and  jerked  open  the  breech.  &quot;This  is  known  as  'breaking'  the  gun.  You  all  understand  every-  thing  so  fart&quot;  &quot;Yes-yes!&quot;  the  youngsters  cho-  rused.  &quot;Go  on,  Uncle  Mark!&quot;  At  that  point,  roughly,  the  car  bear-  ing  the  Kaufmans  and  Mrs.  Grundig  was  passing  through  an  especially  bu-  colic  patch  of  landscape  a  quarter  of  a  mile  distant  from  the  Silver  farm.  A  turbulent  creek,  along  whose  banks  several  cows  peacefully  grazed,  bisected  a  meadow  edged  by  fields  of  ripening  grain.  Off  in  the  distance  stood  a  quaint  covered  bridge,a  clump  of  weeping  willows,  and  a  hay  wain  that  any  fool  knew  had  been  designed  by  Constable.  Beatrice  Kaufman  was  spellbound.  &quot;Oh,  George,  have  you  ever  seen  any-  thing  so  divine?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Lovely,&quot;  he  said  grudgingly.  &quot;But  it  could  get  pretty  lonesome  out  here.  No  newspapers,  nobody  to  play  cards  with.  I'm  no  bird-watcher-&quot;  Stuff  and  nonsense,  his  wife  inter-  rupted  crisply.  Given  such  idyllic  sur-  roundings,  all  their  intimates  would  flock  down  weekends,  would  rush  to  acquire  homes  close  by;  Moss  Hart,  she  reminded  him,  was  avid  fora  country  retreat  near  any  they  might  discover.  Sensing  that  Kaufman  was  starting  to  capitulate,  Mrs.  Grundig  loosed  her  sales  pitch.  The  Silver  prop-  erty  they  were  approaching  was,  ad-  mittedly,  unimproved.  Nevertheless,  its  potential  as  a  showplace,  a  gentleman's  estate  combining  privacy  and  beauty,  was  unmatched  in  her  experience.  Within  five  minutes,  she  promised,  their  dazzled  eyes  would  behold  as  breathtaking  a  scene  as  mortal  man  had  ever  looked  upon.  Simultaneous  with  her  prediction,  the  circle  of  relatives  large  and  smallab-  sorbed  in  Mark  Silver's  lecture  up  at  the  farm  watched  in  awe  as  he  fumbled  forth  two  stubby  cardboard  cylinders  rimmed  with  brass.  &quot;Now,  you  know  what  these  are,  of  course?&quot;  &quot;Bullets!&quot; one  of  the  older  boys  sang  out.  &quot;Shells,&quot;  his  uncle  corrected.  &quot;Shot-  gun  shells,  And  here,&quot;  he  went  on,  in-  serting  them  into  the  appropriate  cham-  bers,  &quot;is  where  we  load  them.  The  next  step  is  to  close  the  breech,  like  so.&quot;  He  locked  the  mechanism  smartly.  &quot;O.K.,  we're  ready  for  business.  I  lift  up  the  gun  and  hold  the  stock  firmly  against  my  shoulder.  Remember  what  I  told  you  about  these  little  irons  on  the   " b"top  here-the  sights?  The  idea  is  you  line  them  up  with  whatever  you're  aiming  at.&quot;  He  squinted  along  the  bar-  rels  to  illustrate,  then  lowered  the  weapon.  &quot;Before  you  fire,  though,  I  better  explain  about  this  jimjick  here,  the  trigger.  A  lot  of  crazy  people  think  that  all  you  do  is  grab  the  gun,  point  it,  and  pull  the  trigger-boom!  No  sirree-there's  more  to  it  than  that!&quot;  Only  the  Prince  of  Darkness  him-  self  could  have  arranged  the  timing,  for,  coincidental  with  these  words,  Mrs.  Grundig's  car  lurched  off  the  county  road  into  the  farm's  private  lane  and  began  ascending  the  steep  wooded  hillside  surmounted  by  the  Silvers'  field-  stone  house.  By  now,  Beatrice  Kauf-  man  was  well-nigh  speechless  with  de-  light.  This  view  was  just  what  she  had  always  dreamed  of,  she  exulted-a  no-  ble  expanse  of  tilled  earth  and  wood-  land,  sun  glinting  on  faraway  barns  and  silos,  and,  tying  it  all  together,  the  ribbon  of  the  majestic  [REDACTED].  &quot;Wait  till  you  see  the  barn  here,  Mr.  Kaufman,&quot;  Mrs.  Grundig  was  chattering.  &quot;You  could  turn  it  into  the  most  beautiful  studio.&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't  planning  to  produce  any  movies,&quot;  he  countered.  &quot;'Then  make  it  into  a  guesthouse,&quot;  she  advised,  &quot;There's  room  enough  for  servants'  quarters,  a  six-car  garage--  even  a  bowling  alley.&quot;  Before  he  could  ask  where  the  pin-  boys  would  come  from,  his  wife  had  a  question.  &quot;Is  anyone  living  here  at  present,  Mrs.  Grundig?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  sure,&quot;  said  the  agent,  &quot;but  we'll  know  in  a  minute.  The  place  is  right  over  this  next  rise.&quot;  Mark  Silver  again  braced  the  shot-  gun  against  the  curve  of  his  shoulder,  canted  its  barrels  downward,  and,  rais-  ing  his  voice  to  make  it  distinct,  issued  a  final  injunction  to  his  kin.  &quot;Bear  in  mind,&quot;  he  stressed,  &quot;you  don't  pull  the  trigger-you  squeeze  it.  A  long...  slow  .  ..  squeeze.  Just  like  this.&quot;  Suiting  the  action  to  the  words,  he  squeezed.  'There  was  an  apocalyptic,  shattering  roar  mingled  with  shrieks  of  terror  as  the  assemblage  scattered.  For  a  moment,  a  pall  of  dust  and  smoke  obscured  the  spot,  and  when  it  dis-  persed,  Irving  Silver,  Mark's  brother,  lay  revealed  on  the  grass.  He  was  clutching  his  left  instep,  where  the  charge  had  struck  it,  and  was  howling  inconsolably.  Such,  then,  was  the  tab-  leau  that  greeted  the  Kaufmans  as  they  disembarked,  thunderstruck  by  the  ex-  plosion  :  a  dishevelled  fellow  with  a  shot-  gun  frozen  over  his  recumbent  victim,  six  bystanders  of  assorted  sizes  cater-  wauling  in  the  shrubbery.  Hypnotized,  they  saw  Mark  Silver  slowly  react  like  the  great  Jewish  tragedian  Jacob  Ad-  ler  to  the  enormity  of  his  deed.  He  emitted  a  heartrending  cry,  flung  aside  the  shotgun,  and  raced  up  the  lawn  to-  ward  Kaufman,  who  shrank  back  ash-  en-faced  at  his  approach.  &quot;Cain  andAbel!&quot;  Mark  Silver  bel-  lowed,  smiting  his  forehead.  &quot;Woe  is  me!  I  have  slain  my  own  brother!&quot;  Swifter  than  Ford  Sterling  and  his  Keystone  Cops,  the  callers  leaped  back  into  their  car  and  went  hurtling  down  the  lane,  hell  for  leather.  How  long  the  Silvers  lingered  is  uncertain,  but  they  let  no  grass  grow  under  their  feet.  As  for  Kaufman,  it  was  donkey's  years  be-  fore  he  could  be  induced  to  revisit  Bucks  County.  &quot;Yes,  I  know  that  neck  of  the  woods,&quot;  he  was  wont  to  observe  grimly.  &quot;I'd  stay  away  from  it  if  I  were  you.  The  fratricide  is  something  terri-  ble.It's  like  a  page  out  of  the  Old  Testament.&quot; "