 b"JUST  after  dawn,  the  train  stopped at  a  small  station  in  northern  [REDACTED]-a  drab,  yellow  stretch  of  stone,  framed  by  brittle  trees  and  yellow  fields.  Scobie  left  the  compart-  ment  and  hurried  into  the  large,  high-  ceilinged  waiting  room,  where  he  was  served  sweet,  milky  coffee  in  a  plastic  cup,  and  thenhe  walked  down  the  platform  outside,  breathing  clouds  of  steam  and  slapping  his  hands  together  for  warmth.  The  sun  rose  in  streaks  over  the  fields.  Men  in  high  leather  boots,  thick  surplus  overcoats,  and  Russian  fur  caps  moved  slowly  from  doorway  to  doorway,  pushing  carts  or  consulting  clipboards.  The  train,  win-  dows  blank,  hissed.  A  few  other  pas-  sengers  disembarked  and  ran  into  the  waiting  room.  Birds  fluttered  into  holes  in  the  station  wall.  Gradually  the  sky  cleared,  becoming  open  and  blue.  Scobie  reached  the  end  of  the  plat-  form,  lit  a  cigarette,  turned  and  walked  back  along  the  cold  concrete,  stamp-  ing  his  feet,  trying  to  shake  the  sleep  from  his  legs.  In  the  yard  ofa  stone  house  next  to  the  station  he  saw  an  old  woman,  dressed  in  black,  throwing  a  bucket  of  soapy  water  out  onto  the  hard  soil.  Her  face  seemed  much  too  young  for  her  body,  but  before  he  could  look  closer  she  had  disappeared  into  the  house,  shutting  the  door  be-  hind  her;  Scobie  continued  along  the  platform,  stamping,  huffing,  thinking  of  all  the  trains  he  had  ever  been  on,  all  the  sights  he  had  seen.  He  remem-  bered  a  playground  on  Long  Island,  a  farmhouse  in  England,  a  pasture  of  sheep  in  [REDACTED].  The  images-  single,  isolated-always  suggested  sto-  ries  he  tried  to  imagine,  lives  and  worlds  through  which  he  passed  as  quickly  and  mysteriously  as  they  passed  him.  He  threw  away  his  cigarette,  breathed  deeply,  held  his  breath,  beat  his  arms,  ran  in  place,  exhaled.  The  still,  flat  sunlight  on  the  plat-  form  was  crossed  by  the  shadow  ofa  bird.  Somewhere  over  the  fields  a  bell  rang,  three  slow  times,  and  was  silent.  A  man's  cough  carried  through  an  open  window.  Plates  and  voices  rat-  tled  together  inside  the  station.  The  train  hissed  again;  steam  rose  from  the  wheels;  metal  clanked.  Pacing,  Scobie  stared  at  the  wagons  lits.  The  long  green  carriages  had  little  left  of  their  original  elegance.  The  train  was  no  longer  an  instrument  of  romance.  Times  had  changed.  Sin-  gle  compartments  had  been  made  into  double  compartments.  The  dining  car  didn't  exist.  The  carpets  were  econom-  ically  gray,  the  walls  functionally  plas-  tic.  He  couldn't  help  missing  the  luxury  he  had  never  known-the  privilege  of  sweeping  across  Europe  in  the  warm,  lamp-lit  twinkle  of  the  old  train.  His  grandmother  and  grandfather  had  vis-  ited  Europe  in  the  mid-twenties,  and  he  vaguely  remembered  tales  of  steame1  trunks  and  silk  dresses.  His  father,  too,  as  a  boy,  had  seen  Europe,  but  Scobie  could  not  remember  where  he  had  gone  or  how  he  had  travelled.  Life  must  have  been  very  different  then:  culture  comfortable,  songs  light-  hearted-even  the  sad  ones-and  plays  gay,  even  the  serious  ones.  His  father  had  once  told  him  at  dinner,  exasperat-  ed  by  argument,  that  people  of  his  own  generation  had  never  asked  themselves  why  they  were  doing  something;  they  had  just  done  it,  and  if  they  didn't  like  it  they  had  done  something  else.  &quot;Some  people  of  your  generation  asked  them-  selves  why,&quot;  Scobie  had  replied,  and  his  father,  glumly  returning  to  his  meal,  had  said  no  more.  Scobie  opened  the  door  to  the  wait-  ing  room.  A  dozen  fellow-passengers  stood  huddled  together,  drinking  coffee  and  smoking  cigarettes.  Scobie  paid  for  another  cup  and  went  to  the  window,  where  he  saw  his  brother  crossing  the  platform.  Matthew  entered  the  room  and  walked  to  the  counter-his  eyes  still  puffy  and  small  from  sleep,  his  reddish-blond  hair  prickly  with  static,  his  clothes  disorganized.  HEN  Matthew  turned,  the  hot  plastic  cup  burning  his  hand,  and  saw  Scobie  standing  like  a  refugee  in  his  full-length,  second-hand  over-  coat,  he  almost  laughed.  Broad,  stooped,  Scobie's  figure  demanded  unattainable  order.  His  narrow  eyes  were  dry  with  sleep,  and  his  long  hair  curled  around  his  ears  like  feathers.  &quot;Good  morning.&quot;  &quot;Morning.&quot;  Scobie  stamped  his  feet.  &quot;Christ,  it's  cold.  We'll  die  in  4974616c79-  to  coina  phrase.&quot;  &quot;It  might  be  warmer,  being  by  the  sea.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  so.&quot;  Matthew  squinted  through  the  win-  dow  at  the  train,  shining  in  the  sun.  When  he  woke,  he  had  been  dreaming  of  Alexandria,  [REDACTED],  of  their  green  brick  row  house,  of  the  tangled  garden  out  back,  of  the  walk  he  and  Scobie  used  to  take  to  school  across  the  rail-  road  tracks  and  past  the  squat,  three-  story  apartment  buildings.  &quot;Do  you  think  Mom  and  Dad  are  there  yet?&quot;  Scobie  asked.  &quot;Sure.  Quentin's  probably  there,  too.  He  was  supposed  to  get  in  last  night.&quot;  &quot;I  worry  about  him.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yeah.&quot;  &quot;He  smokes  too  much  dope.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  way  he  smokes  it.  He  makes  it  into  such  a  big  thing.&quot;  &quot;He's  only  eighteen,&quot;  Scobie  said.  &quot;But  we  weren't  like  that  when  we  were  eighteen.&quot;  &quot;Sure  we  were.&quot;  &quot;No,  we  weren't.  We  thought  it  was  great,  but  we  did  things.  We  got  high  and  went  for  walks,  we  got  high  and  went  to  the  movies,  we  got  high  and  talked.  We  had  fun.  We  didn't  just  sit  around  smoking  our  brains  out  in  a  dark  room.&quot;  ,  &quot;Matthew,  you've  become  a  reac-  tionary.&quot;  Matthew  put  his  empty  cup  down  on  a  table  and  rubbed  his  hands  to-  gether.  Suddenly  a  whistle  blew,  doors  slammed,  and  the  waiting  room  emp-  tied.  Matthew  followed  Scobie  outside  and  climbed  aboard  the  train.  The  beds  of  their  compartment  had  been  made  and  folded  back  to  form  two  facing  seats.  Franny,  Matthew's  girlfriend,  was  reading,  and  Susan,  who  was  Scobie's  girlfriend,  sat  oppo-  site  her,  a  crossword  puzzle  on  her  lap.  The  train  jerked  forward  a  few  feet  and  stopped.  &quot;We're  there!&quot;  Scobie  cried.  They  sat  and  waited,  the  sun  streaming  through  the  window  and  filling  the  compartment  with  swirling  motes.  Matthew,  leaning  his  head  on  Franny's  shoulder,  settled  back,  half  asleep,  and  felt  the  sun  on  his  hands,  heard  voices  speaking  Greek  in  the  cor-  ridor,  smelled  the  dusty  fragrance  of  the  faded  seats.  He  thought  of  Alexan-  dria  again,  the  room  he  had  shared  at  " b"the  top  of  the  house  with  Scobie-an  attic  room  with  a  sloping  ceiling  and  beauti-  ful  beds:  ship's  beds  with  an  enclosing  rim  of  wood  above  the  mattresses.  His  father  had  made  those  beds,  as  well  as  the  bookshelves  and  the  desks  that  doubled  as  bureaus.  On  winter  morn-  ings,  when  the  walls  were  pale  blue  with  the  light  of  reflected  snow,  that  room  had  smelled  much  likethis  train:  musty,  clothlike.  &quot;'Name  a  poem  by  By-  ron,&quot;  Susan  said.  &quot;Which  poem?&quot;  Scobie  asked.  &quot;Any  poem.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  for  Chrissake,  Su-  san.&quot;  &quot;Then  who  killed  Me-  dusa?&quot;  &quot;Perseus,&quot;  Franny  said.  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  Slowly,  the  train  began  to  move,  curving  into  hilly  country  and  gathering  speed  until  the  trees  became  quick,  snapping  sticks  spinning  past  the  window.  Matthew,  pressed  against  the  glass,  could  see  the  small  station  vanishing  in  the  distance,  mo-  tionless  in  its  rectangle  of  sunlight.  A  few  figures  were  moving  about  on  the  plat-  form.  A  dog  jumped  into  the  yard  of  a  nearby  stone  house,  The  glittering  fields  revolved  out  to  a  per-  fectly  blue  sky.  QUENTIN  saw  them  coming  from  Q  the  pensione  window,  four  stum-  bling  shapes  in  winter  coats.  Behind  them  rose  a  bright-red  Ferris  wheel,  and  the  yellow  and  pink  houses  stretched  along  the  Grand  Canal,  and  the  dome  of  St.  Mark's.  He  opened  the  window  and  called,  &quot;Hello!&quot;  They  saw  him  and  waved.  His  hand,  as  it  fell  back  to  the  sill,  was  as  heavy  as  granite.  The  afternoon  sunlight  shim-  mered  on  the  blue-green  water.  Pass-  ing  boats  crisscrossed  the  glow  with  the  webbing  of  their  masts  and  smoke-  stacks.  Twisting  to  the  left,  Quentin  watched  his  brothers  turn  into  the  door  of  the  pensione,.  Scobie  was  laughing,  bumping  into  Matthew,  pretending  to  stagger.  Watching,  Quentin  felt  small  again-the  youngest  son,  the  child.  He  left  his  room  and  walked  down  the  corridor  to  the  door  of  his  parents'  room  and  knocked.  &quot;Come  in.&quot;  His  mother  was  stand-ing  by  the  closet,  brushing  her  dress.  Her  hair,  which  she  had  grown  to  her  shoulders,  was  streaked  with  a  pale  gray.  She  looked  up  and  smiled.  &quot;'They're  here,&quot;  Quentin  said.  The  bathroom  door  opened  and  his  father  stepped  out,  sideburns  wet  from  shaving.  &quot;They're  here,&quot;  Quentin  said  again.  &quot;Sam,  help  me  with  my  dress.&quot;  His  father  tugged  at  the  zipper  and  fastened  the  clasp,  his  fingers  working  carefully,  delicately.  &quot;Hold  still,  Laura,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Stop  twitching.&quot;  &quot;Knock-knock.  Come  in.  Thank  you.&quot;  Scobie  stood  in  the  doorway,  grinning.  &quot;Hello.&quot;  &quot;Hello,  darling.&quot;  Matthew,  Susan,  and  Franny  crowded  in  behind  Scobie.  &quot;Hello,  Quentin.  How  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Fine.&quot;  Scobie  stood  back  and  looked  him  over.  &quot;Mother,  this  boy  needs  food.&quot;  &quot;He  won't  eat  any.&quot;  &quot;Speaking  of  which,  they're  waiting  for  us  downstairs,&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  his  mother  said.  &quot;I  thought  we  could  cat  a  big  meal  now  and  then  just  have  a  snack  tonight.&quot;  &quot;Who's  sleeping  where?&quot;  Matthew  asked.  &quot;You  and  Scobie  are  with  Quentin,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  girls  have  their  own  room.&quot;  &quot;I'll  show  you,&quot;  Quentin  said.  The  corridor  was  patterned  with  shafts  of  sunlight,  and,  leading  the  way,  Quentin  felt  as  if  he  were  walking  into  a  camera,  intothe  fluttering  lens  of  a  magic  eye.  Shadows  lay  at  the  end,  modulated  depths  and  shades  broken  only  by  gleaming  doorknobs.  His  hands  were  heavy  again,  swinging  at  his  sides-objects  he  seemed  to  be  carrying.  &quot;Here.&quot;  He  opened  the  door  and  stepped  inside.  &quot;Ah,  yes,&quot;  Scobie  said,  climbing  over  the  mound  ofclothes  cluttering  the  floor.  &quot;Quentin  has  settled  in.&quot;  HE  room  was  silent  except  for  the  ticking  of  the  alarm  clock  and  an  occasional  boat  whistle  out  on  the  " b"canal.  It  was  sunset.  Through  the  win-  dow  Laura  could  see  a  dull  red  bright-  ening  the  sky.  She  rolled  over  and  snapped  on  the  bedside  lamp.  Sam  was  still  asleep,  his  hands  tucked  under  his  pillow.  She  lit  a  cigarette  and  leaned  back.  A  pile  of  gaily  wrapped  Christmas  presents  lay  on  a  table  in  the  corner.  For  a  moment,  she  remembered  the  childhood  joy  of  travelling  from  New  York  to  Northfield,  [REDACTED],  where  her  great-aunt  Judy  had  lived  in  a  long  white  house,  with  stables  at  one  end  and  a  library  at  the  other.  In  be-  tween  were  rooms  and  rooms-a  living  room  with  violet  cushions  and  a  grand  piano,  a  dining  room  with  a  row  of  windows  overlooking  the  apple  orchard,  a  kitchen  with  a  shiny  brick  floor  and  a  fireplace  big  enough  to  stand  in,  and,  upstairs,  bedrooms  with  brass  beds  and  finely  painted  porcelain  washbasins.  At  Christmas,  the  whole  family  would  gather,  cousins  driving  from  as  far  away  as  [REDACTED].  The  hallway  would  fill  up  with  boots  and  overcoats,  fires  would  be  burning  in  all  the  fireplaces.  A  huge  Christmas  tree,  cut  just  that  week,  would  stand  in  a  corner  of  the  living  room,  and  slowly  the  presents  would  accumulate  under  the  fresh  pine  needles-ribbons  and  tinsel  and  gold  paper  all  merging  into  one  tantalizing  glow.  Judy's  father  and  husband  had  both  been  ministers,  and  so  there  was  always  a  trek  to  church  across  the  snowy  fields  and  hymn  singing  in  the     living  room-with  Judy,  already  in  her  seventies,  banging  on  the  plano-and  a  long  grace  before  Christmas  dinner.  How  she  had  loved  that  house,  and  how  strange  to  find  it,  on  a  trip  to  Northfield  to  visit  her  father's  grave  just  two  yearsago,  belonging  to  a  near-  by  boys'  school  -the  beneficiary  of  Judy's  will.  Laura  had  walked  through  the  rooms-the  library  a  club  room,  the  living  room  a  center  for  black  stu-  dents,the  bedrooms  junior-faculty  apartments-and  wondered  what  had  happened  to  all  her  Christmas  play-  mates.  Outside,  the  fair  had  opened,  and  the  lights  and  noises  penetrated  the  quiet  room.  Laura  put  out  her  cigarette.  After  Christmas,  she  decided,  she  would  take  Quentin  shopping.  The  only  clothes  he  seemed  to  have  were  hand-me-downs  from  Scobie  and  Matthew,  and  they  were  dirty  and  full  of  holes.  She  looked  at  the  clock.  &quot;Sam,&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;Sam.&quot;  HE  black,  open  mouth  swallowed  a  witch  with  blinking  red  eyes.  Just  below,  on  the  same  cardboard  mural,  a  whore  sang  to  the  stars,  her  massive  thighs  stretched  in  pleasure.  Sam  slowly  looked  at  the  other  paint-  ings  adorning  the  fun  house.  They  were  all  oversize,  grotesque,  garish.  Yet  here  and  there  he  found  evi-  dence-a  line,  a  shade-of  artistry.  The  noise  of  gunshots  and  breaking  plates  filled  the  night.  Hundreds  of  small  children,  dressed  impeccably  in  skirts  and  capes  and  caps,  had  been  brought  to  the  fair  by  their  parents;  the  fathers  had  long-  ish,  carefully  styled  hair,  and  the  mothers  had  faces  etched  with  makeup.  The  Ferris  wheel  and  the  merry-  go-round  were  the  most  beautiful  Sam  had  ever  seen:  the  seats  carved  and  gilded  and  sumptuously  covered  with  a  soft  red  ma-  terial  that  looked  like  velvet.  Beyond  the  fair,  the  houses  of  4974616c79  rose  into  darkness,  a  few  lights  on  behind  a  few  windows,  the  old  walls  faded  and  smoothed  by  centuries  of  rain  and  wind.  4974616c79,  he  thought,  would  be  a  good  place  to  live-if  he  could  only  find  a  house  by  the  sea.  And  the  thought  of  his  imminent  retirement  suddenly  took  him  from  the  fair  and  spun  him  into  his  own  saddened  state:  fifty-three,  sagging  in  the  middle,  gray-  haired,  and  tired  of  serving  his  coun-  try.  He  had  things  of  his  own  to  do.  He  wanted  to  paint  again.  For  twenty  years  he  had  been  rising  at  six  and  driving  to  an  office  in  some  embassy,  greeting  his  secretary,  drinking  a  sec-  ond  cup  of  coffee,  straightening  his  tie  and  walking  down  the  ring-  ing  corridor  to  the  nine-o'clock  staff  meeting.  Twenty  years!  The  waste  in-  volved-his  knowledge,  his  experience,  his  time  and  his  effort  and  his  care.  He  would  take  it  all  with  him  when  he  retired.  It  would  be  useless.  Ex-  cept  that  it  was  his  life,  the  sum  total  of  twenty  professional  years.  Nothing  is  ever  wasted,  he  thought.  Nothing.  Ever.  &quot;Hey,  Dad,  let's  ride  the  bumper  cars!&quot;  Matthew  said,  pulling  him  by  the  arm.  Sam  and  Quentin  in  one  car,  Mat-  thew  and  Scobie  in  another,  they  sped  around  the  circular  inclined  raceway.  There  were  about  fifteen  other  cars  on  the  track,  with  a  major  collision  every  few  seconds.  Sam's  knees  did  not  quite  fit  under  the  miniature  dashboard,  his  glasses  kept  slipping  down  his  nose,  and  his  checked  tweed  cap  threatened  to  fly  off  in  his  wake.  Laura  and  Susan  and  " b"Franny  stood  on  the  edge  of  the  race-  way  and  laughed  hysterically.  Quentin,  sitting  next  to  him,  had  his  knees  up  under  his  chin  and  his  hands  clutching  the  dashboard,  and  his  long  hair  flew  out  behind  him  like  a  frazzled  weather  net.  And  yet,  Sam  thought,  taking  his  car  around  a  corner  and  sending  Matthew  and  Scobie  into  a  spin,  I  am  not  so  badly  off,  not  really.  Three  healthy  sons.  A  beautiful  wife.  In  4974616c79  for  Christmas.  And  not  so  paunchy.  Not  so  tired.  &quot;Dad,  look  out!&quot;  Quentin  screamed.  Hit  broadside  by  a  grinning  Mat-  thew,  Sam's  car  twisted  a  full  circle  and  smashed  into  the  rubber  guardrail.  He  backed  the  car  around  and  took  chase.  And  not  so  slow,  either.  FTER  lunch  the  next  day,  Scobie  and  Susan  took  a  boat  out  to  the  Lido.  The  sky  was  overcast,  the  water  dark  green.  Small  whitecaps  nudged  the  buoys.  Scobie  and  Susan  sat  near  the  bow,  holding  hands.  The  Venetian  houses  faded  behind  them,  and  before  them  the  newer,  French-  looking  buildings  of  the  Lido  grew  in  size.  It  was  cold  and  damp.  Scobie  tightened  his  scarf  around  his  neck  and  turned  up  the  fur  collar  of  his  coat.  The  wind  made  his  eyes  water.  The  smell-sea,  brine-was  almost  mythological,  he  thought.  A  smell  designed  for  stone,  sirens,  stars.  In  [REDACTED],  where  he  had  spent  four  years  as  a  child,  the  smell  had  been  the  same,  only  warmed  by  the  sun  filtering  through  the  closed  shutters  of  his  bedroom  window  every  morning  and  wakening  him  with  a  long-  ing  for  adventure.  That  sensa-  tion-the  hot  laziness,  the  lapping  waves  below  the  terrace,  the  cool  shadows  of  the  rooms-had  been  with  him  ever  since,  a  romantic  contact  with  the  earth.  The  land-  scape  itself  had  seemed  touched  by  a  kind  of  longing,  an  almost  religious  melancholy.  Objects  stood  out  with  special  clarity.  Sounds  carried  with  special  vi-  brancy.  From  [REDACTED],  he  sup-  posed,  came  his  love  for  beauty  of  surface,  tone,  shade,  melody,  abstraction  in  the  simplest  sense:  a  pale  wall  in  a  patch  of  sunlight,  a  curtain  dancing  with  dust,  a  woman's  fingers  idly  twisting  the  stem  of  a  glass.  He  was  con-  strained  by  his  senses.  And  his  senses  constantly  led  him  away  from  his  own  time,  his  own  place.  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  Susan  asked.  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  there  is.  What's  wrong?&quot;  Susan's  white,  angular  face,  sur-  rounded  by  ascarf,  smiled  at  him.  Her  eyes  were  large  and  dark,  her  fine  lips  settled,  resolute.  He  leaned  over  and  kissedher.  &quot;Do  you  realize  this  is  our  first  Christmas  together  in  eight  years?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  family's,  I  mean.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Christmas  is  always  disappointing,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  guess.&quot;  The  boat  swung  to  starboard  and  rubbed  in  against  the  dock.  Scobie  and  Susan  followed  a  large  group  of  laugh-  ing  teen-agers  onto  the  pavement  and  down  a  wide  boulevard.  After  4974616c79,  the  Lido  looked  dismal  in  the  gray  afternoon  light.  They  walked  under  the  bare  elm  trees,  past  pink  villas  that  had  been  converted  into  summer  hotels,  until  they  reached  the  beach.  There  they  turned,  the  sand  and  striped  cabafias  at  their  left,  the  trees  and  hedges  ofa  park  at  their  right.  There  were  only  a  few  people  out  walking.  On  the  beach  a  man  and  a  boy  were  trying  to  fly  a  kite.  Sea-  gulls  circled  the  long,  rolling  waves,  now  and  then  dipping  down  for  fish.  Their  cawing-orchestrated,  precise-  reminded  Scobie  of  his  Englishboard-  ing  school,  the  Saturday  afternoons  he  used  to  spend  walking  along  the  crum-  bling  shale  cliffs,  listening  to  the  gulls  and  watching  the  trawlers  move  slowly  up  and  down  the  Bristol  Channel.  There  the  grayness  had  been  a  drizzle,  and  the  gulls  had  called  to  him  from  a  sky  as  thick  as  clouds.  Everything  re-  mained  intact  in  his  head.  He  never  forgot:  the  cold  mornings,  the  long,  wooden  eating  tables,  the  underheated  classrooms,  the  headmaster's  daughter,  the  hitchhike  to  [REDACTED],  his  drunken,  rainy  rages  along  country  lanes  shak-  ing  with  lightning.  These  remained,  though  the  true  misery  of  being  there,  his  pointless  anger,  had  mellowed,  so  that  now,  while  he  remembered  he  had  hated  that  school,  hecould  hate  it  no  longer.  Time  had  passed,  and  with  it  accuracy.  Memory  had  become" b"poetic:  It  is  spring,  and  suddenly,  after  months  of  rain  and  mist,  the  sun  sets  fire  to  the  hidden,  fertile  seeds  and  the  wholeworld  opens  up  like  a  bud;  the  fields  turn  bright  green;  the  hillsides  sparkle  with  flowers;  the  rocks  are  covered  with  a  soft,  unending  moss;  hundreds  of  birds  flutter  and  sing  in  the  ivy;  and  he  sits  in  the  small,  grassy  graveyard  of  the  church,  alone,  a  bot-  tle  of  wince  by  his  feet,  smoking  a  ciga-  rette,  listening,  smelling,  and  then,  his  head  casting  a  shadow  across  his  lap,  reading-reading  in  a  way  he  would  never  be  able  to  read  again,  as  if  these  words,  these  magical  sentences,  were  as  real  as  the  countryside  around  him.  Susan  took  him  by  the  arm  and  turned  him  around  so  that  he  stood  facing  the  stolid  stone  facade,  the  gravel  paths  and  clipped  hedges  and  boarded-up  windows,  of  the  Hotel  des  Bains.  ANDERING  from  room  to  room  of  the  Doges'  Palace,  his  neck  strained  from  staring  up  at  Tin-  torettos,  Matthew  marvelled  that  here,  in  perhaps  the  most  beautiful  city  in  the  world,  he  found  not  purity  and  light  but  darkness  and  fear.  Every  stone  had  been  lifted  by  hands  commanded  to  lift.  Every  painting  had  been  commis-  sioned  to  awe  an  ambassador.  Every  sculpture,  every  tapestry  was  there  only  because  someone,  somewhere,  had  want-  ed  more  power  or  money  or  prestige.  The  architecture  was  graceful,  yes-  the  fine  Gothic  arches  elegant  in  their  quiet  rows.  But  inside  he  saw  only  im-  modest  greed.  The  strong  had  done  what  they  could;  the  weak  had  done  what  they  had  to  do.  So  4974616c79  was  built.  Even  today  he  saw  nothing  but  things.  Beautiful  things.  Shirts,  tics,  shoes,  gloves,  books,  food,  liquor,  pens,  china,  perfume.  Too  much,  too  beauti-  ful-this  palace  running  on  and  on,  rooms  growing  larger,  the  brilliant  polished  floors  and  the  glutted,  swirling  frescoes  and  the  gold  ceilings  and  the  tarnished  mirrors.  And  to  think  that  all  through  his  childhood  he  had  thought  the  [REDACTED]  of  Sighs  was  a  lovers'  bridge,  some  splendid  marble  pathway  to  bliss.  Now  here  it  was,  a  short  walk  across  space  to  prison.  Franny  whispered,  &quot;I  hate  this  place.&quot;  One  by  one,  the  dungeons  passed.  Clean.  Swept.  But  once,  right  here,  the  scene  of  death.  He  shivered.  They  returned  to  the  palace  and  walked  down  stairways  and  empty  corridors,  trying  to  find  their  way  out.  Franny's  cheeks  were  red  from  the  cold.  Her  hiking  boots  clunked  on  the  marble  floors.  Matthew  pulled  his  wool  cap  down  over  his  ears  and  took  her  hand.  He  and  Scobie  used  to  hold  hands,  he  remembered-a  habit  they  had  picked  up  in  [REDACTED].  But  once  back  in  the  States  they  had  stopped.  It  was  too  sissy.  Too  frightening,  he  suspected,  such  intimacy.  Later,  when  they  were  in  Rome,  they  had  seen  other  children  their  age  holding  hands,  but  they  never  did  it  again  themselves.  They  were  al-  ready  self-conscious.  Their  love  took  other,  more  hidden  forms:  the  comfort  of  shared  memories,  and  a  strange,  mu-  tual  protection-keceping  up,  looking  after,  sheltering.  Franny  pushed  open  a  heavy  door  and  they  stepped  out  into  a  courtyard.  &quot;The  sun'!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;Look,  Matthew.&quot;  Above  them  the  clouds  had  pulled  apart  enough  to  let  through  a  long  are  of  golden  light.  The  sun  is  [REDACTED],  he  thought.  Col-  umns  like  prayer  lifted  toward  the  sky.     The  dry  earth.  The  water  cool  and  green  above  the  rocks.  The  pines.  The  boats  pulled  up  for  the  night.  The  fish-  nets  spread  to  dry.  And  always  the  sun-hot  and  clear,  or  streaked  (dawn,  dusk),  or  just  a  hint  of  violet  in  the  mountains.  Always  there,  warming  everything.  How  he  loved  [REDACTED],  and  how  he  missed  his  little  apartment,  the  stove,  the  view  of  the  Acropolis,  the  bakery,  the  market,  the  tiny  glasses  of  ouzo,  the  olives.  &quot;Are  Scobie  and  Susan  going  back  to  [REDACTED]  after  Christmas?&quot;  Franny  asked.  &quot;I  don'tthink  so.  They'll  keep  trav-  elling,  I  suppose.&quot;  &quot;Matthew?&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  &quot;What  are  we  going  to  do?&quot;  &quot;Go  back,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  mean  after  that.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  want  to  stay  in  [REDACTED]  forever?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  Maybe.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  want  to  go  back  to  school,&quot;  she  said.  And  here,  Matthew  thought,  the  problem  presents  itself:  what  to  do?  Stay  in  [REDACTED]  or  go  back  to  [REDACTED]?  In  [REDACTED],  he  had  clarity,  quiet,  time,  " b"memories.  He  studied  the  language,  read,  wrote.  In  [REDACTED],  he  had  noth-  ing  except  a  vague  connection  to  the  land.  It  was  unhealthy,  he  suspected,  to  live  at  the  center  of  the  world.  Once  in  [REDACTED],  only  [REDACTED]  exists.  Ev-  erything  seems  of  equal  importance,  therefore  everything  is  equally  unim-  portant.  So  signs  and  mysteries  abound,  hints  and  clues.  556e6974656420537461746573ns  are  all  ama-  teur  detectives.  They  read  the  clouds,  the  papers,  the  songs  for  spiritual  in-  formation,  then  shrivel  up  with  what  they  think  they  have  learned.  Sleep  badly.  Take  pills  Worry,  Even  his  friends  worried.  Even  he  worried.  But  all  those  mountains  and  rivers,  the  deserts  and  the  snow,  the  ghosts  of  buf-  falo  and  thethreats  of  holocaust,.  Per-  haps-this  bothered  him-[REDACTED]  had  been  something  like  that  in  her  heyday.  Perhaps  the  peace  he  felt  there  now  was  the  peace  of  powerlessness.  Prob-  lems  had  assumed  human  proportions  again,  People  laughed  and  shrugged.  They  cared  but  they  didn't  worry.  The  sea  and  the  marble  and  the  pines  calmed  the  spirit.  Or  killed  it-laid  it  in  the  eager  hands  of  waiting  colonels.  The  stubborn  antiquity  of  [REDACTED]  some-  times  struck  him  as  a  manufactured  dream,  a  distant  product  of  the  Amer-  ican  imagination.  Perhaps,  after  all,  he  must  live  in  the  middle  of  the  machine,  down  among  the  bits  and  picces  of  broken  technology,  down  where  truth  was  a  mindless  computation.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  can't  go  on  tu-  toring  English  the  rest  of  my  life,  so  I'll  probably  want  to  go  back  to  the  States.  At  least  fora  while.  See  what  happens.&quot;  &quot;We  could  always  come  back.&quot;  &quot;That's  right.&quot;  He  blew  into  his  cold  hands.  &quot;Anyway,  I  miss  my  friends  sometimes.  Even  if  they  are  crazy.&quot;  &quot;God,  I'd  like  to  hear  some  good  music,&quot;&quot;  she  said.  He  laughed.  &quot;It  wouldn't  be  so  bad.  For  a  while.&quot;  QUENTIN  was  a  victim  of  genetic  structures,  biological  arrange-  ments.  He  was  bone  and  flesh.  A  col-  lection  of  particulars:  eyes,  ears,  nose,  mouth.  These  were  the  basics,  the  in-  struments  oftruth.  What  he  saw,  heard,  smelled,  tasted  he  knew.  He  trusted  the  evidence,  the  impulses,  his  heart.  Forhim  there  was  no  other  way.  His  love  was  pulled  out  and  stretched  and  tugged  and  battered.  He  understood  nothing.  His  father,  his  brothers-they  understood.  They  com-  prehend  the  game.  &quot;Play  or  perish,&quot;  Scobie  said.  &quot;You're  either  on  the  top  or  on  the  bottom,&quot;  Matthew  said.  &quot;Man  lives  by  his  commitments,&quot;  his  father  said.  &quot;Without  involvement,  we  are  nothing,&quot;  his  mother  said.  And  they  were  right,  absolutely  correct.  They  knew  enough  to  stand  firm.  Quentin  drifted.  His  brain  was  cloudy.  He  seldom  moved,  his  muscles  sagged,  his  back  stooped,  But  why?  WAy?  Cleaning  his  glasses,  which  were  held  together  with  paper  clips,  Quentin  leaned  forward  and  peered  at  the  painting:  Mother  and  child.  And  an-  other  woman,  a  stranger.  Bellini.  He  stood  back  for  a  clearer  view,  thinking,  The  sad  faces  cause  great  grief  to  the  background.  The  darkness  is  Juminescent,  like  black  tears.  Only  the  child  is  calm.  He  senses  his  mother's  hands  and  is  calm.  Quentin  continued  along  the  wall  of  paintings,  wondering  what  in  the  world  had  made  these  men  paint  so  beautiful-  ly.  But  as  he  looked  he  began  to  un-  derstand  that  each  stroke  of  color,  each  aspect  of  composition  was  tiedto  a  childhood  vision  of  single  objects  sur-  rounded  by  mystery.  The  backgrounds  were  either  blurred  or  fantastically  de-  tailed.  He  slowly  warmed  to  these  ancient  gentlemen  with  their  in-  tricate  memories.  He  felt  with  them  a  sudden  kinship-they  could  have  dis-  cussed  the  complex  workings  of  love  and  the  frightening  colors  hiding  in  " b"the  sky.  They  could  have  been  friends.  Quentin  left  the  museum,  passed  the  British  consulate,  crossed  a  bridge,  and  walked  into  a  maze  of  alleyways.  The  sun  was  setting.  Pink  light  touched  the  old  walls.  The  wind  was  intensified  by  the  narrow  streets.  He  shrugged  down  into  his  coat  and  walked  quickly.  Soon,  he  thought,  he  must  learn  how  to  fight  his  way  free  of  this  weight,  or  he  would  become  a  giddy,  guilty  noth-  ing.  The  world  conspires  to  reduce  us  all  to  such  helplessness,  Quentin  thought,  reminded  of  George,  his  eleventh-grade  roommate,  baffled  and  broken  by  fear  and  destroyed  by  his  own  hand  simply  because  a  thick-brained  headmaster  had  said  he  was  going  to  tell  his  father  he  smoked  dope.  Period.  End  of  a  life.  End  of  a  consciousness.  So  what  was  there  to  fight  back  with,  Quentin  wondered.  Commitment  to  a  circle,  in-  volvement  with  a  spiral-this  was  mad-  ness.  Within  the  circle  and  the  spiral  there  must  be  some  still  point.  He  passed  a  wall,  a  garden,  a  foun-  tain,  a  square.  He  saw  people  bustling  with  Christmas  cheer.  He  saw  green  scarves  and  shiny  shoes  and  laughing  children.  He  saw  stores  filled  with  presents.  He  saw  the  colorful,  steamy  windows  of  restaurants.  He  saw  a  sky  turning  red  with  sunset.  THERE  is  no  getting  at  the  truth  of  things,  Laura  thought  in  the  dining  room  of  the  Danieli,  looking  at  her  sons,  her  husband,  Susan  and  Franny,  the  gleaming  silverware,  the  candles,  the  black-coated  headwaiter  takingorders  in  his  little  pad.  There  is  no  understanding  the  way  the  heart  works.  She  did  her  best,  she  tried  to  understand,  but  she  knew  each  effort  was  itself  only  a  manifestation  of  love.  Ever  since  she  was  a  girl  growing  up  in  New  York  City-and  she  remembered  suddenly,  with  great  pleasure,  the  Christmas  trees  on  Park  Avenue  and  the  smell  ofroasting  chestnuts  along  Forty-second  Street  and  the  bright  shopwindows  along  Fifth-ever  since  she  was  a  little  girl,  she  had  been  trying  to  understand  what  it  was  that  made  people  demand  so  much  of  themselves.  She  realized  that  working  could  be  a  kind  of  fulfillment.  She  realized  that  fortitude  could  define  reality,  create  security.  She  understood  that.  But  what  made  people  place  themselves  in  a  posi-  tion  where  they  could  be  happy  only  in  comparison  with  other  people?  It  was  all  connected  with  the  way  the  heart  works,  she  suspected.  But  it  was  mud-  dled,  and  she  could  not  see  the  connec-  tion.  She  saw  one  kind  oflove  here,  and  another  kind  of  love  there.  What  happened  in  between?  How  did  so  many  people  get  stuck  between  child-  hood  love,  which  was  innocent  if  any-  thing  was,  and  grown-up  love,  which,  for  the  most  part,  was  only  false  knowl-  edge?  &quot;I  would  like  to  propose  a  toast,&quot;  Scobie  said,  lifting  his  glass  of  wine.  &quot;To  Mom  and  Dad.&quot;  &quot;To  Mom  and  Dad.&quot;  &quot;Hear,  hear.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  &quot;And  also,&quot;  Scobie  continued,  grin-  ning  around  the  table,  &quot;to  the  spirit  of  Christmas.&quot;  To  the  spirit  of  Christmas.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  to  spirit.&quot;  &quot;In  general,&quot;  Scobie  said.  spirit.&quot;  &quot;Good  toast.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  &quot;And  I,&quot;  Sam  said,  holding  his  glass  aloft,  &quot;would  like  to  offer  a  toast  spe-  cifically  to  your  mother,  whose  idea  it  was,  you  will  remember,  to  bring  us  all  together  in  4974616c79  for  Christmas.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98TO  Ma\xe2\x80\x9c),  &quot;Good  cheer.&quot;  &quot;I'll  drink  to  that.&quot;  &quot;And  I,&quot;  Quentin  said,  &quot;would  like  to  drink  to  Mom  and  Dad's  uncertain  future.&quot;  &quot;May  it  be  bright.&quot;  &quot;Good  luck.&quot;  &quot;God  bless.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  do?&quot;  Scobie  demanded.  &quot;Who  knows,  dear?&quot;  &quot;Live  on  a  boat,&quot;  Sam  said.  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Sell  everything  we  own  and  live  on  a  boat.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  want  a  nest.&quot;  &quot;Where,  Mother?&quot;  &quot;In  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Mom,  you  don't  want  to  live  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  Matthew  said.  &quot;What  would  you  do?  You  don't  know  any-  body  there.&quot;  Your  mother  wants  to  participate,&quot;  Sam  said.  &quot;In  what?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;I'm  tired  of  travelling,&quot;  she  said.  Dinner  arrived.  Veal,  mushrooms,  artichokes,  shrimp,  salad.  The  table  was  covered  with  food.  Three  waiters  served  from  a  small  side  tray.  The  candle  flames  bent,  sputtered,  straight-  ened.  Her  children,  faces  flushed,  sat  around  her  and  exchanged  toasts  and  laughed.  Wonder,  disbelief-that  is  " b"what  she  felt.  At  this  very  moment-  no,  tomorrow;  or  was  it  yesterday?-  her  brother  Paul  and  his  family  were  sitting  at  their  table  in  Wilmington,  [REDACTED],  eating  their  Christmas  din-  ner.  She  could  imagine  clearly  his  heavy,  Irish  face  bent  studiously  above  the  steaming  turkey,  Joan's  panicky  warnings  and  advice,  their  children's  amused  praise.  So  different,  the  lives  they  led.  Paul  in  Wilmington  for  twenty  years,  she  moving  from  home  to  home,  country  to  country,  each  em-  bassy  merging  into  the  next,  each  new  group  of  friends  gradually  dimming  into  one  strange  world  of  vague  rela-  tionships.  The  only  thing  she  and  Paul  had  in  common  now  was  their  child-  hood,  their  strain  of  weak  Irish  sadness.  Whenever  they  met-every  two  or  three  years-they  wept,  Paul  drinking  Martinis  until  his  onebad  eye  grew  glassy  and  rolled  up  in  what  seemed  either  a  grimace  of  madness  or  a  silent  howl  of  love.  Together,  they  would  sit  and  talk  about  their  separate  lives  and  children  until,  inevitably,  they  were  back  in  New  York  or  Northfield,  children  themselves,  and  then  Paul  would  quietly  put  down  his  glass,  kiss  her  good  night,  and  slowly,  almost  del-  icately,  climb  the  stairs  to  bed.  The  restaurant  chimed  with  their  talk.  They  were  the  onlyones  there.  Everyone  else  was  home  for  Christmas  Eve.  She  worried  that  the  waiters  and  cooks  might  have  their  Christmas  spoiled  by  her  lingering  family.  Would  Scobie  and  Susan  ever  get  married?  Quentin  needed  new  clothes  and  a  winter  coat,  and,  really,  a  haircut-a  trim.  Matthew  was  glowing!  Beaming!  &quot;Scobie,&quot;  she  asked,  &quot;who  said,  'only  the  moments  exist,  but  not  their  imag-  inary  combination'?&quot; &quotjust  as  a  man  has  no  life;  not  even  one  of  his  nights  exists;  each  mo-  ment  we  live  exists,  butnot  their  imag-  inary  combination.  Borges.  'A  New  Refutation  of  Time.&quot;  Ah,  Mother,  Mother-Merry  Christmas.&quot;  He  lifted  his  glass.  &quot;Merry  Christmas,  darling,&quot;  she  said.  AT  eleven-thirty  they  left  the  Da-  nieli  and  walked  to  St.  Mark's.  It  was  a  clear,  cold  night.  The  water  of  the  Grand  Canal  was  still,  shimmer-  ing  with  starlight.  Sam  buttoned  the  collar  of  his  overcoat  and  sank  his  hands  deep  into  his  pockets.  He  felt  light-headed  from  the  wine.  His  stom-  ach  growled.  Laura  took  his  arm  and  touched  her  cheek  to  his  shoulder.  Sco-  bie,  Susan,  Matthew,  Franny,  and  Quentin  walked  ahead  in  a  long  line,  arms  linked.  Their  words  and  laughter  reached  him  in  fragments.  He  noticed  that  Quentinwas  as  tall  as  Scobie.  Matthew  was  the  shortest.  They  all  walked  with  the  same  rolling  shuffle-  a  sailor's  walk,  he  thought,  and  wondered  if  he  walked  the  same  way.  Far  out  on  the  water  a  boat  whistle  hooted.  The  square  was  empty.  All  the  ex-  pensive  stores  under  the  arcade  were  closed.  Here  and  there  light  shone  through  the  windows  of  a  caf\xc3\xa9.  The  stones  of  the  square  glistened.  The  cathedral  was  dark,  but  next  to  it,  two  stories  high,  was  a  bright  Christmas  tree.  &quot;'There's  no  Midnight  Mass,&quot;  Lau-  ra  said,  squinting  at  a  bulletin  posted  on  the  cathedral  doors.  Scobie  stared  over  her  shoulder,  &quot;How  can  there  be  no  Midnight  Mass  on  Christmas  Eve?&quot;  &quot;Well,  there  isn't.&quot;  &quot;The  man  at  the  pensione  told  me  about  another  church  back  by  the  restaurant,&quot;  Franny  said.  &quot;San  Zaccaria.&quot;  &quot;O.K.  About-face.&quot;  They  turned  and  made  their  way  back  past  the  Doges'  Palace  and  along  the  Grand  Canal.  Sometimes  Sam  worried  that  he  had  brought  his  sons  up  so  freely  they  would  never  be  able  to  function  in  a  world  of  shifting  freedoms.  They  got  along,  they  managed,  but  they  seemed  to  have  difficulty  attaching  themselves  to  anything  that  might  lead  to  a  career.  Doctors?  Lawyers?  Diplomats  No-  they  laughed  at  the  idea,  as  if  it  were  a  joke.  Yet  there  was  a  drive  in  them,  a  muted  ambition,  that  made  them  want  to  attach  themselves.  He  was  sure  of  that.  But  theold  tasks  had  lost  their  value.  They  felt  they  would  be  impli-  cated  in  crime  if  they  were  to  work  for  criminals.  And  they  saw  everybody  as  a  criminal,  They  trusted  no  one:  they  tracedevents  back  to  their  beginnings  and  discovered  only  deceit.  True,  de-  ceit  abounds.  Evil  abounds,  Crime  abounds.  But  you've  got  to  live.  You've  got  to  take  your  stand  and  say,  &quot;Here  I'll  fight.&quot;  You  do  your  best.  You  tread  mills.  You  die  anonymously.  But  what  else  is  there?  You  pick  a  general-  ity  with  which  you  generally  agree  and  make  it  your  cause.  That's  it.  That's  all  there  is.  What  would  they  do  with  their  drive-their  talent,  for  God's  sake?  They  were  talented,  his  sons.  They  had  a  mission:  To  help.  To  counsel.  To  stand  with  others  like  them  and  do  their  best  to  hold  men  back  from  the  brink.  &quot;Look,  there.&quot;  Quentin  pointed.  &quot;Follow  the  crowd.&quot;  They  turned  left  and  entered  a  dark,  narrow  street  that  twisted  along  for  about  fifty  yards  and  then  opened  into  a  small  square.  Sam  could  hear  a  foun-  tain  dripping  nearby.  To  his  right  rose  the  church.  &quot;  &quotSan  Zaccaria,  &quot;  Matthew  read.  Inside,  the  church  was  crowded  with  midnight  worshippers.  The  service  had  not  started.  Dozens  of  candles  quivered  before  the  altar.  An  organ  was  playing.  There  were  four  dark  wooden  confes-  sional  booths  on  both  sides  of  the  church,  with  people  waiting  in  line  at  each  one.  &quot;We'll  have  to  split  up,&quot;  Scobie  whispered.  Sam  found  two  seats  at  the  back  and  sat  down  with  Laura.  The  organ  continued  to  play  adeep,  " b"rumbling  hymn,  and,  from  an  obscured  balcony  high  above  the  nave,  a  choir  started  singing.  Sam  looked  sideways  at  the  nearest  confessional  booth.  It  was  open  in  the  front,  with  a  drawn  curtain  hiding  the  priest's  face  and  chest.  There  were  small,  screened  windows  on  either  side  of  the  booth,  through  which  two  kneel-  ing  confessors  appeared  to  speak  simul-  taneously.  The  priest's  hands  lay  on  the  curled  wooden  molding  of  the  booth's  entrance.  Clasping  and  unclasping,  touchingeach  other  and  settling  again,  they  looked  like  the  quivering  candles.  They  were  beautiful  old  hands,  pale  and  strong  and  veined.  Their  fluttering  seemed  the  movement  of  anxiety;  they  seemed  to  be  absorbing  the  painof  the  secret  words  whispered  through  the  windows.  When  Scobie  and  Matthew  and  Quentin  were  children  and  they  lived  in  [REDACTED],  Sam  had  had  to  drive  the  family  north  to  Long  Island  every  Christmas  to  spend  the  week  with  his  parents.  He  remembered  arriving  late  at  night,  the  country  roads  slick  with  ice,  pulling  into  his  parents'  drive-  way  and  parking  the  car  under  the  tree  that  his  mother  always  decorated  with  blue  lights.  The  boys,  who  had  been  sleeping  in  the  back  seat,  would  jump  up  with  excitement  and  clamber  from  the  car  into  his  mother's  arms.  There  would  be  a  large  Christmas  tree  in  the  front  hall  and  a  fire  in  the  fireplace,  and  his  mother  and  father,  who  had  fallen  asleep  waiting  for  them,  would  look  dazed  and  happy  as  the  suitcases  and  presents  were  car-  ried  in.  The  next  day,  the  boys  would  go  sledding-screaming  and  laugh-  ing  and  rolling  in  the  snow,  piled  three  high  on  the  old  sled.  Christmas  Eve  his  mother  would  read  them  &quot;The  Night  Before  Christmas&quot;  and  then  they  would  go  to  bed,  while  he  and  Laura  and  his  parents  stayed  up,  put-  ting  presents  under  the  tree  and  talk-  ing.  On  Christmas  Day,  his  brother,  Ken,  and  Nancy,  Ken's  wife,  would  drive  over  from  their  house,  and  the  family  would,  as  his  mother  said  every  year,  &quot;spend  Christmas  proper-  ly.  Together.&quot;  In  a  way,  Sam  missed  those  days,  though  at  the  time  they  had  often  been  painful.  Returning  home  is  always  the  same.  Memo-  ries  push  in  from  the  walls,  the  smells  rise  up  like  ghosts;  everything  you  touch-the  plates,  the  photograph  al-  bums,  the  books-is  haunted  by  your  own  childhood.  But  the  boys  had  loved  it,  and  that  was  the  part  Sam  missed.  They  had  been  ecstatic  with  the  mystery  of  the  snow  and  the  trees  and  the  bay  gleaming  out  beyond  the  lawn.  The  service  began.  YING  in  bed,  his  hands  behind  his  head,  Scobie  stared  through  the  window  at  the  clear  Venetian  sky  and  listened  to  the  heavy  breathing  of  his  sleeping  brothers.  The  room  was  bright  with  the  morning  sun.  &quot;Get  up,&quot;  he  said.  Matthew  and  Quentin  didn't  hear  him,  or  ignored  him.  They  were  buried  beneath  their  blankets.  He  rubbed  his  feet  along  the  warm  sheets.  The  walls  of  the  room  were  covered  with  small,  dancing  circles  of  light.  He  could  smell  coffee  being  brewed  down  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;Get  up,&quot;  he  said,  louder.  &quot;Rise  and  shine.&quot;  His  brothers  didn't  move.  &quot;Hey,  it's  Christmas.&quot;  Matthew's  fingers  pulled  back  his  blanket.  His  eyes  opened.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  Scobie  said.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  Matthew  said,  smiling.  Scobie  ran  into  the  bathroom  and  turned  on  the  shower.  Matthew  lis-  tened  to  the  water  drumming  against  the  plastic  curtain  and  Scobie's  sputter-  ing,  whispered  singing.  Through  the  window,  he  could  see  a  square  of  pale- blue  sky.  He  stretched  and  yawned.  &quot;Quentin.  Time  to  get  up.&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  Quentin's  voice  was  muffled  under  his  blankets.  &quot;It's  Christmas.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care.&quot;  &quot;Get  up.&quot;  &quot;I'm  too  tired.&quot;  Matthew  continued  to  watch  the  sky  through  the  window.  A  wisp  of  cloud  appeared  and  was  slowly  blown  away.  f  &quot;Shave,  shave,  I  love  to  shave,&quot;  Scobie  was  muttering  in  the  bathroom.  &quot;Wonderful  shave,  beautiful  shave-&quot;  &quot;Shut  up!&quot;  Quentin  shouted.  The  bathroom  door  opened.  Scobie's  lathered  face  peered  around  at  Quen-  tin.  &quot;What's  this?&quot;  &quot;Stop  it.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;That  noise.&quot;  &quot;I'm  singing,  for  God's  sake.  Where's  your  Christmas  cheer?&quot;  The  door  shut.  Matthew  stretched  again  and  sat  up  on  the  edge  of  his  bed.  The  floor  was  cold.  He  looked  over  at  his  brother's  bed.  Quentin  had  rolled  back  his  blan-  kets  and  was  staring  at  the  ceiling.  &quot;Good  morning.&quot;  &quot;Good  morning.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  getting  up?&quot;  &quot;I'm  thinking  about  it.&quot;  Quentin  watched  Matthew  stand  and  skip  across  the  floor  to  the  bathroom.  The  shower  water  hummed  again.  Scobie  came  out  and  started  dressing.  His  hair  was  wet  and  brushed  straight  back  from  his  forehead.  He  whistled  as  he  pulled  on  " b"his  jeans  and  unfolded  a  clean  shirt.  Over  his  shoul-  der,  a  seagull  slowly  circled  in  the  sky,  Quentin  threw  back  his  covers  and  rose.  &quot;Why  Quentin,  have  you  considered  this  care-  fully?&quot;  Scobie  said.  &quot;I  always  get  up  ear-  Iv,&quot;  Quentin  replied,  standing.  &quot;To  do  my  ex-  ercises.&quot;  He  opened  the  bath-  room  door.  Matthew  was  combing  his  hair  before  the  steamy  mirror.  Quen-  tin  stepped  under  the  hot  water  and  showered,  then  dried  himself  with  a  large  pink  towel.  When  he  re-  turned  to  the  bedroom,  Matthew  was  sitting  on  his  bed,  tying  his  shoes.  &quot;Where's  Scobie?&quot;  &quot;He's  gone  down  for  breakfast,&quot;  Matthew  said.  Quentin  dressed  hur-  riedly-paint-stained  black  pants,  heavy  Army  boots,  a  flannel  shirt,  and  a  cor-  duroy  vest  a  friend  had  given  him  in  college.  Then  he  brushed  his  hair  and  tied  it  back  in  a  pony-  tail.  &quot;Ready?&quot;  Matthew  asked.  He  was  standing  by  the  door.  &quot;Yeah. &quot;   Together,  they  walked  down  the  stairs  to  the  dining  room.  Sunlight  hung  in  the  windows  like  mirrors.  Quentin's  eyes  felt  as  if  he  needed  new  glasses.  He  followed  Matthew  through  the  glass  door  into  the  din-  ing  room.  His  shirt  kept  bunching  up  beneath  his  vest.  &quot;Good  morning,&quot;  Laura  said.  &quot;Good  morning.&quot;  She  looked  around  the  table  at  her  sons,  at  Sam,  Susan,  and  Franny,  all  bent  over  their  coffee  and  rolls,  then  out  at  the  water  and  the  sky  and  the  seagulls  and  the  sun  on  the  stone.  &quot;Well,  Mother,&quot;  Scobie  said.  &quot;We  did  it.&quot;  &quot;What's  that,  darling?&quot;  &quot;We're  together  for  Christmas.  First  time  in  eight  years.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  what  it's  been?&quot;  Sam  asked.  &quot;I  was  trying  to  figure  it  out  last  night.&quot;  &quot;Eight  years,&quot;  Scobie  said.  &quot;I  was  a  sophomore  in  high  school.&quot;  'That's  a  long  time.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  it  is,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That's  why  I  want  a  nest.&quot;  &quot;I  understand,  Mother,&quot;  Quentin  said.  &quot;I  know  you  do.  But  your  father  keeps  sayinghe  wants  to  live  on  a  boat.&quot;  &quot;I  just  don't  want  to  sit  down  and  die  somewhere,&quot;  Sam  said.  &quot;I  understand  that,&quot;  Matthew  said.  Through  the  window  Sam  saw  a  large  tanker  sliding  out  tosea.  &quot;Dad,  when  do  you  actually  stop  working?&quot;  Matthew  asked.  &quot;'This  spring.&quot;  &quot;Has  everyone  finished  his  coffee?&quot;  Laura  asked.  &quot;Shall  we  go  upstairs  and  open  our  presents?&quot;  &quot;By  all  means,&quot;  Scobie  said,  push-  ing  back  his  chair  and  standing.  &quot;Mother,  lead  on.&quot;  Sam  swallowed  a  last  mouthful  of  coffee  and,  his  old  Abercrombie  shoes  creaking  on  the  carpet,  followed  his  family  up  the  stairs,  aware  that,  ina  way,  he  and  Laura  had  reached  the  end  of  a  journey,  that  his  sons,  once  only  cells  of  light  in  her  body,  this  morning  rose  before  him  as  dominant  as  his  parents.  Laura  opened  the  bedroom  door  and  stood  blinking  in  the  bright  light.  It's  all  a  matter  of  balancing  between  the  temptation  to  remember  and  the  sym-  pathetic  magic  of  this  still  moment,  she  thought:  the  sunlit  room,  the  presents  piled  on  the  table,  the  tray  of  small  Campari  bottles  sitting  by  the  win-  dow-this  single  quivering  instant  of  love.  She  handed  Sam  a  present  in  gold  paper.  Sam  propped  his  cigarette  in  an  ash-  tray  and  held  the  small  box  cautiously,  as  though  it  were  a  bird.  Scobie  sipped  his  grinned  out  the  window.  Matthew  touched  Franny's  hand.  Quentin,  blushing,  clinked  glasses  with  Susan  and  turned  to  watch  his  father.  Below,  on  the  Grand  Canal,  a  long  white  ocean  liner  gracefully  circled  the  harbor,  once,  to  give  the  tourists  a  view  of  4974616c79.  "