 b"IT\xe2\x80\x99S  not  the  yellow  curtains.  Nor  curtain  rings.  Nor  isit  bran  in  a  bucket,  not  bran,  nor  is  it  the  large,  reddish  farm  animal  eating  the  bran  from  the  bucket,  the  man  who  placed  the  bran  in  the  bucket,  his  wife,  or  the  raisin-faced  bankerwho's  about  to  fore-  close  on  the  farm.  None  of  these  is  nothing.  A  damselfish  is  not  nothing,  it's  a  fish,  a  Pomacentrus,  it  likes  warm  water,  coral  reefs-perhaps  even  itself,  for  all  we  know.  Nothing  is  not  a  nightshirt  or  a  ninnyhammer,  ninety,  two,  or  Nineveh.  It  is  not  a  small  jun-  gle  in  which,  near  a  river,  a  stone  table  has  been  covered  with  fruit.  It  is  not  the  handsome  Indian  woman  standing  next  to  the  stone  table  holding  the  blond,  kidnapped  child.  Neither  isit  the  proposition  esse  est  percipi,  nor  isit  any  of  the  refutations  of  that  proposition.  Nor  isit  snuff.  Hurry.  There  is  not  much  time,  and  we  must  complete,  or  at  least  attempt  to  complete,  the  list.  Nothing  is  not  a  tongue  depressor;  splendid,  hurry  on.  Not  a  tongue  de-  pressor  on  which  a  distinguished  artist  has  painted  part  of  a  nose,  part  of  a  mouth,  a  serious,  unsmiling  eye.  Good,  we  got  that  in.  Hurry  on.  We  are  per- suaded  that  nothing  is  not  the  yellow  panties.  The  yellow  panties  edged  with  white  on  the  floor  under  the  black  chair.  And  it's  not  the  floor  or  the  black  chair  or  the  two  naked  lovers  standing  up  in  the  white-sheeted  bed  having  a  pillow  fight  during  the  course  of  which  the  male  partner  will,  unseen  by  his  be-  loved,  load  his  pillowcase  with  a  copy  of  Webster's  Third  International.  We  are  nervous.  There  is  not  much  time.  Nothing  is  not  a  Gregorian  chant  nor  indeed  a  chant  of  any  kind  unless  it  be  the  howl  of  the  null  muted  to  inaudi-  bility  by  the  laws  of  language  strictly  construed.  It's  not  an  &quot;O&quot;  or  an  am-  persand  or  what  Richard  is  thinking  or  that  thing  we  can't  name  at  the  mo-  ment  but  which  we  use  to  clip  papers  together.  It's  not  the  ice  cubes  disap-  pearing  in  the  warmth  of  our  whiskey  nor  is  it  the  town  in  [REDACTED]  where  the  whiskey  is  manufactured  nor  isit  the  workers  who,  while  reading  the  Bible  and  the  local  newspaper  and  Ril-  ke,  are  sentiently  sipping  the  product  through  eighteen-foot-long,  almost  in-  visible  nylon  straws.  And  it's  not  a  motor  hotel  in  Dib  (where  the  mudmen  live)  and  it's  not  pain  or  pain  or  the  mustard  we  spread  on  the  pain  or  the  mustard  plaster  we  spread  on  the  pain,  fee  simple,  the  roar  of  fireflies  mating,  or  meat.  Nor  isit  lobster  protected  from  its  natural  ene-  mies  by  its  high  price  or  true  grit  or  false  grit  or  thirst.  It's  not  the  yellow  curtains,  we  have  determined  that,  and  it's  not  what  is  behind  the  yellow  cur-  tains  which  we  cannot  mention,  out  of  respect  for  the  King's  rage  and  the  Queen's  reputation.  Hurry.  Not  much  time.  Nothing  is  not  a  telephone  num-  beror  any  telephone  number  or  any  number  whatsoever  including  zero.  It's  not  science  and  in  particular  it's  not  black-hole  physics,  which  is  not  noth-  ing  but  physics.  And  it's  not  (quick-  ly  now,  quickly)  Benjamin  Franklin  trying  to  seduce,  by  mail,  the  widow  of  the  French  thinker  Claude  Adrien  Helv\xc3\xa9tius,  and  itis  not  the  nihilism  of  Gorgias,  who  asserts  that  noth-  ing  exists  and  even  if  something  did  exist  it  could  not  be  known  and  even  if  it  could  be  known  that  knowledge  could  not  be  communicated,  no,  it's  not  that  although  the  tune  is  quite  a  pretty  one.  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  it  is  not  Athos,  Porthos,  or  Aramis,  or  anything  that  ever  happened  to  them  or  anything  that  may  yet  happen  to  them  if,  for  example,  an  Exxon  tank  truck  exceed-  ing  the  speed  limit  out-  side  of  Yuma,  [REDACTED],  runs  over  a  gila  monster  which  is  then  reincarnated  as  Dumas  p\xc3\xa9re.  It's  not  weather  of  any  kind,  fair,  foul,  or  undecided,  and  it's  not  mental  weather  of  any  kind,  fair,  foul,  or  partly  cloudy,  and  it's  neither  my  psychiatrist  nor  your  psy-  chiatrist  or  either  of  their  psychiatrists,  let  us  hurry  on.  And  it  is  not  what  is  under  the  bed  because  even  if  you  tell  us  &quot;''There  is  nothing  under  the  bed&quot;  and  we  think,  At  last!  Finally!  Pinned  to  the  specimen  board!  still  you  are  only  informing  usof  a  local,  only  temporarily  stable  situation,  you  have  not  delivered  nothing  it-  self.  Only  the  list  can  present  us  with  nothing  itself,  pinned,  finally,  at  last,  let  us  press  on.  We  are  aware  of  the  difficul-  tics  of  proving  a  negative,  such  as  the  statement  &quot;There  is  not  a  hipphilos-  amus  in  my  living  room,&quot;  " b"and  that  even  if  you  show  us  a  photograph  of  your  living  room  with  no  hip-  philosamus  in  it,  and  adduce  as  well  a  tape  recording  on  which  no  hipphilosamus  tread  is  discernible,  how  can  we  be  sure  that  the  photograph  has  not  been  re-  touched,  the  tape  cunning-  ly  altered,  or  that  both  do  not  either  pre-  or  postdate  the  arrival  of  the  hipphilos-  amus?  That  large,  ver-  bivorous  animal  which  is  able  to  think  underwater,  for  long  periods  of  time?  And  while  we  are  men-  tioning  verbs,  can  we  ask  the  question,  of  nothing,  What  does  nothing  do?     Quickly,  quickly.  Hei-  degger  suggests  that  &quot;Nothing  nothings&quot;-a  calm,  sensible  idea  with  which  Sartre,  among  oth-  ers,  disagrees.  (What  Hei-  degger  thinks  about  noth-  ing  is  not  nothing.)  Hei-  degger  pointsus  toward  dread.  Having  borrowed  a  cup  of  dread  from  Kierke-  gaard,  he  spills  it,  and  in  the  spreading  stain  he  finds  (like  a  tea-leaf  reader)  Nothing.  Original  dread,  for  Heidegger,  is  what  in-  tolerabilizes  all  of  what-is,  offering  us  a  momentary  glimpse  of  what  is  not,  finally  a  way  of  bumping  into  Being.  But  Heidegger  is  far  too  grand  for  us;  we  applaud  his  daring  but  areourselves  performing  a  homelier  task,  making  a  list.  Our  list  can  in  principle  never  be  completed,  even  if  we  summon  friends  or  armies  to  help  out  (nothing  is  not  an  army  nor  is  it  an  army's  history,  weapons,  morale,  doctrines,  victories,  or  defeats-there,  that's  done).  And  even  if  we  were  able,  with  much  labor,  to  exhaust  the  possibilities,  get  it  all  tnseribed,  name  everything  nothing  is  not,  down  to  the  last  rogue  atom,  the  one  that  rolled  behind  the  door,  and  had  thoughtfully  included  ourselves,  the  makers  of  the  list,  on  the  list-the  list  itself  would  remain,  Who's  got  a  match?  UT  if  we  cannot  finish,  we  can  at  least  begin.  If  what  exists  is  in  each  case  the  totality  of  the  series  of  appearances  which  manifests  it,  then  nothing  must  be  characterized  in  terms  of  its  non-appearances,  no-shows,  in-  corrigible  tardiness.  Nothing  is  what  keeps  us  waiting  (forever).  And  it's  not  &quot;Charlie  Is  My  Darling,&quot;  nor  would  it  be  Mary  if  I  had  a  darling  so  named  nor  would  it  be  my  absence-of-  darling  had  I  neglected  to  search  out  and  secure  one.  And  it  is  not  the  yellow  curtains  behind  which  fauns  and  astro-  nauts  embrace,  behind  which  flesh  crawls  in  all  directions  and  flickertail  squirrels  fall  upward  into  the  trees.  And  death  is  not  nothing  and  the  cheering  sections  of  consciousness  (&quot;Do  not  go  gentle  into  that  good  night&quot;)  are  not  nothing  nor  are  holders  of  the  contrary  view  (&quot;Burning  to  be  gone,&quot;  says  Beckett's  Krapp,  into  his  Sony).  What  can  I  tell  you  about  the  rape  of  Lucrece  by  proud  Tarquin?  Only  this:  the  rapist  wore  a  coat  with  raglan  sleeves.  Not  much,  but  not  nothing.  Put  it  on  the  list.  For  an  ampler  ac-  count,  see  Shakespeare.  And  you've  noted  the  anachronism,  Lord  Raglan  lived  long  after  the  event,  but  errors,  too,  are  not  nothing.  Put  it  on  the  list.  Nothing  ventured,  nothing  gained.  What  a  wonderful  list!  How  jovous  the  notion  that,  try  as  we  may,  we  cannot  do  other  than  fail  and  fail  absolutely  and  thatthe  task  will  remain  always  before  us,  like  a  meaning  for  our  lives.  Hurry.  Quickly.  Nothing  is  not  a  nail. "