 b"THE  Addis  Ababa  [REDACTED]  has  a  lobby  of  cool  and  lustrous  stone  and  a  giant,  heated,  cruciform  swimming  pool.  'The  cross-shape  is  plain  from  the  balconies  of  the  eighth,  and  ninth-floor  rooms,  from  which  also  one  can  see  the  long  white  facade  of  the  Emperor's  palace.  In  the  other  di-  rection,  thereare  acres  of  tin  shacks,  and  a  church  on  a  hill  like  the  nipple  on  a  breast  of  dust.  Emerging  from  the  pool,  which  feels  like  layers  of  rapidly  tearing  silk,  one  shivers  uncontrollably  until  dry,  though  the  sun  is  brilliant,  and  the  sky  diamond-pure.  The  land  is  high,  and  the  air  not  humid.  One  dries  quickly.  The  elevators  are  swift  and  silent.  From  the  high  floors  the  white  umbrellas  on  the  restaurant  tables  be-  side  the  pool  make  a  rosary  of  perfect  circles.  All  this  is  true.  What  is  not  true  is  that  Prester  John  doubles  as  the  desk  clerk,  and  the  Queen  of  Sheba  manages  the  glass-walled  gift  shop,  wherein  one  can  buy  tight-woven  baskets  of  multi-  colored  straw,  metal  mirrors,  and  Cop-  tic  crosses  of  carved  wood  costing  thou-  sands  of  457468696f706961n  dollars,  which  relate  to  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  dollar  as  seven  to  three.  The  young  556e6974656420537461746573n  couple  arrived  at  the  hotel  very  tired,  having  been  ten  days  in  4b656e7961,  where  they  had  seen  and  photographed  lions,  leopards,  chee-  tahs,  hyraxes,  oryxes,  dik-diks,  stein-  boks,  klipspringers,  oribis,  topis,  kudus,  impalas,  elands,  Thomson's  gazelles,  Grant's  gazelles,  hartebeests,  wilde-  beests,  waterbucks,  bushbucks,  zebras,  giraffes,  flamingos,  marabou  storks,  Masai  warriors,  baboons,  elephants,  warthogs,  and  rhinoceroses-every-  thing  hoped  for,  indeed,  except  hippos.  There  had  been  one  asleep  in  a  pool  in  the  Ngorongoro  Crater,  but  it  had  looked  too  much  like  a  rock  to  photo-  graph,  and  the  young  man  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  couple  had  passed  it  by,  con-  fident  there  would  be  more.  There  never  were.  It  had  been  his  only  chance  to  get  a  hippopotamus  on  film.  Prester  John,  cool  behind  his  desk  of  lustrous  green  marble,  divined  this,  and  efficiently,  gratuitously  arranged  that  they  spend  the  night  away  from  Addis  Ababa,  in  the  457468696f706961n  countryside.  The  countryside  was  light  brown.  Dis-  tant  figures  swathed  in  white  trod  the  tan  landscape  with  the  floating  step  of   men  trying  to  steady  themselves  on  a  trampoline.  But  these  were  women,  all  beautiful.  The  beauty  of  their  black  faces,  glimpsed,  lashed  the  windows  of  the  car  like  fistfuls  of  thrown  sand.  Some  carried  yellow  parasols.  Some  led  white  donkeys.  A  few  rode  in  rubber-  wheeled  carts,  rickety  and  polychrome,  their  mouths  and  nostrils  veiled  against  the  dust.  He  tried  to  photograph  these  women,  but  they  turned  their  heads,  and  the  results  would  be  blurred.  The  hotel  was  cushioned  in  bougain-  villea  and  stuffed  with  Germans.  At  six  o'clock  a  bus  took  all  the  Germans  away  and  the  young  556e6974656420537461746573ns  be-  came  the  only  guests.  They  walked  the  grounds,  unreal  with  blossom,  and  looked  from  their  balcony  to  the  brown  lake  distilled  from  the  tan  landscape  by  a  cement  dam,  and  read  the  magazines  in  the  hotel  library-GCe  Soir,  IL  Tem-  po,  Sturm  und  Drang,  the  English  edi-  tion  of  the  official  monthly  publication  of  thePolish  Chamber  of  Commerce,  the  annual  handbook  of  Yugoslavian  soccer,the  quarterly  journal  of  the  Australian  Dermatology  Association,  incorporating  Tasmanian  Hides.  &quot;God,  I  love  this  country,&quot;  he  announced  aloud,  letting  his  magazine  sink  beside  him  to  the  bed.  &quot;Quiet,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  reading.&quot;  The  Brazilian  edition  of  Newsweek.  &quot;If  you  ever  get  tired  of  reading,&quot;  he  began.  &quot;It's  too  hot,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Really?  Actually,  as  evening  comes  on,  in  these  high,  dry  countries-&quot;  &quot;Have  it  yourway,  then,&quot;  she  said,  noisily  turning  a  tissue-thin  page.  &quot;It's  too  cold.&quot;  There  was  a  knock  on  the  door.  It  was  their  driver,  asking  in  his  excel-  lent  English  if  they  wanted  to  see  the  hippopotami  before  dinner.  Their  car  wound  through  dusk  and  low,  menac-  ing  foliage  to  a  sluggish  brown  river.  It  seemed  empty  and  scarcely  flowing.  They  walked  along  a  dim  path  beside  the  riverbank  and  met  Prester  John,  barefoot,  in  rags,  and  carrying  a  staff.  Though  he  seemed  a  shade  darker  than  inhis  hotel  uniform,  he  was  recogniz-  ably  the  same  man-small,  clever,  with  beautiful  feminine  hands  and  a  hurt,  monkish,  liverish  look  beneath  his  eyes.  He  looked,  she  thought,  like  Sammy  Davis,  Jr.;  but  then  so  many  men  in  [REDACTED]  looked  like  Sammy  Davis,  Jr.  Prester  John  led  them  to  a  shaggy  point  above  the  river  and  made  a  noiseof  sonorous  chuckling  deep  in  his  throat-  deeper  than  his  throat;  his  entire  body  and  belly  thrummed  and  resonated  with  the  noise.  And  then  in  the  dusk  little  snags  appeared  in  the  river  cur-  rent:  hippopotamus  eyes.  And  as  the  " b"556e6974656420537461746573ns  grew  accustomed  to  the  dusk,  and  the  dusk  to  them,  to  the  eyes  were  added  ears,  and  the  topsof  heads  appeared  above  the  water,  and  the  bulb-  ous  immensity  ofa  back  arched  up-  ward  into  a  dive.  It  was  a  family,  a  clan,  with  two  babies  among  them,  all  calling  to  one  another;  their  deep  soft  snorting  continued  underwater  as  an  unheard,  vibrating  jubilance.  The  air  became  as  full  of  it  as  the  river,  one  brown  world  flooded  with  familial  snorting,  until  the  hippopotami  had  tugged  themselves  around  the  bend  and  into  night.  Prester  John  accepted  his  tip  with  a  bow  and  the  shadow  of  a  genu-  flexion.  The  driver  was  relieved  to  find  his  car  unharmed  in  the  bushes.  The  young  556e6974656420537461746573n  couple  were  served  dinner  in  solitary  splendor.  Unseen  hands  had  prepared  a  banquet;  for  all  its  eerie  isolation,  the  meal  was  delicious.  He  wondered  how  they  turned  a  prof-  it.  Oh,  if  only  he  knew  how  to  talk  to  her!  The  silence  between  them  grated  the  plates  and  let  the  silver  clash  with  the  fury  of  swords,  His  thoughts  moved  on,  to  the  hippos.If  only  there  had  been  a  notch  or  two  more  light!  Oh,  if  only  he  had  taken  a  longer  lens!  ACK  in  Addis,  Prester  John  per-  ceived  that  they  were  bored,  and  arranged  to  have  a  party  thrown  for  them.  He  himself  was  the  host;  the  Queen  of  Sheba  was  the  hostess.  Her  hair  was  up  in  the  halo  of  an  [REDACTED],  and  as  she  moved  in  her  robe  of  all  possible  colors  her  body  tapped  now  here,  now  there.  The  rings  on  her  fingers  formed  a  hoard  and  the  little  gold  circles  of  her  granny  glasses  gave  her  eyesa  monkish  humor.  Her  blackness  was  the  shade  in  which  God  had  designed  Adam  and  Eve,  a  color  from  which  the  young  556e6974656420537461746573n  couple  felt  their  own  white-  ness  as  a  catastrophic  falling-off,  caused  helter-skelter  by  the  Northern  clime,  snow,  wolves,  camouflage,  and  the  sur-  vival  of  the  fittest.  The  Queen  of  Sheba  introduced  them  to  beautiful,  static  peo-  ple  formally  designated  as  Ato,  Woi-  zero,  and  Woizerit.  'The  Woizerits  were  unmarried.  It  seemed  an  elabo-  rate  way  to  say  it.  Also  elaborate,  the  Emperor  was  never  referred  to  but  as  His  Imperial  Majesty,  which  be-  came  HIM.  &quot;*  ..  ,  until  we  are  rid  of  HIM  ... ..  the  latest  story  about  HIM  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;I  understand,&quot;  the  young  Ameri-  can  saidto  a  stately  Woizerit  who  had  studied  three  years  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  &quot;you're  in  television.&quot;  Prester  John  gracefully  interceded.  &quot;'This  lovely  lady,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;s  televi-  sion.&quot;  His  magical  female  hand  turned  a  dial,  and  there  she  was,  giving  news about  the  latest  Palestinian  hijacking.  &quot;Hitler,&quot;  a  swarthy  but  handsome  gentleman  was  telling  the  young  556e6974656420537461746573n  wife,  &quot;had  the  correct  idea  but  was  not  permitted  to  complete  it.  A  vivid  proof  of  the  lack  of  Providence.&quot;  &quot;Suppose  I  told  you,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  was  Jewish?&quot;  He  surveyed  her  face,  and  then  her  blond  body,  lovingly.  &quot;It  would  not  less-  en,&quot;  he  told  her,  &quot;my  reverence  for  Hit-  ler.&quot;  But  reverence  for  her  was  what  he  expressed,  for  he  clung  pinchingly  to  her  arm  as  if  she  had  consented  to  join  him  in  some  superb  indecency.  Her  husband  had  found  a  fellow-  556e6974656420537461746573n,  a  pale-tan  Black  woman  from  [REDACTED],  in  the  pay  ofthe  Ameri-  can  Embassy.  They  huddled  close  to-  gether,  sharing  remembrance  of  that  remote  exotic  land  of  Lincoln  Conti-  nentals  and  Drake's  Cakes.  &quot;You  hap-  py  here?&quot;  heasked  at  last.  &quot;It'll  do,&quot;  she  said,  shrugging  and,  obliged  to  elaborate  on  the  shrug,  adding,  &quot;I  can't  get  servants.  They're  very  polite,  and  I  offer  top  dollar,  but  the  457468696f706961ns  will  not  work  for  me.&quot;  &quot;But  why?&quot;  Seeing  he  didn't  know,  very  gra-  ciously  she  made  a  little  gesture  as  if  parting  curtains,  disclosing-herself.  Seeing  he  still  didn't  know,  she  elabo-  rated,  &quot;They  have  this  racial  hang-up.  They  keep  telling  you  how  Semitic  they  are.&quot;  The  Queen  of  Sheba  clapped  her  hands  imperiously.  No  Westerner  could  have  produced  that  sound,  as  if  with  blocks  of  wood:  worlds  of  body  lan-  guage  are  being  lost.  The  guests  sat  to  eat  around  great  multicolored  baskets  lined  with  a  delicious  rubbery  bread.  One  ate  by  tearing  off  pieces  and  seiz-  ing  food  as  if  picking  up  coals  with  a  pot  holder.  The  young  556e6974656420537461746573ns  were  delighted  to  be  engaging  in  a  custom.  Prester  John  admired  their  prag-  matism.  His  voice  was  high,  reedy,  and  not  accidentally  unpleasant.  &quot;I  would  not  want  to  say,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;the  many  negative  things  I  could  say  about  [REDACTED].  But  you  have  done  this  one  thing  of  genius.  The  credit  card.  Mon-  ey  without  money.  That  is  a  thing  truly  revolutionary.  The  world  is  thus  trans-  formed,  while  the  political  philosophers  amuse  one  another.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  what  you  do?  I  mean,  are  you  are  a  political  scientist?  A  teach-  er?&quot;  The  556e6974656420537461746573n  was  not  sure  this  was  still  Prester  John-he  seemed  frailer,  edgier.  &quot;What  do  I  do?  I  read  Proust,  over  and  over.  And  I  write.&quot;  &quot;Could  I  read  your  books?&quot;  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  wife  chimed  in,  from  across  the  basket,  at  whose  rim  the  admirer  of  Hitler  was  showing  her  how  to  eat  raw  meat,  an  457468696f706961n  delicacy.  &quot;No,&quot;  was  the  response,  said  caress-  ingly.  &quot;In  [REDACTED],  there  is  no  pub-  lishing.&quot;  &quot;You  understand,&quot;  the  television  Woizerit  murmured  on  the  Ameri-  can's  other  side.  &quot;HIM.&quot;  &quot;I  write  and  I  write,&quot;  the  frail  clever  host  elaborated,  &quot;and  then  I  read  it  all  aloud  to  one  special  friend.  And  then  I  destroy  it.  All.&quot;  &quot;How  terrible.  Is  that  friend  here?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  smiled,  forming  a  little  prayer  tent  with  his  hands,  He  was  certainly  Prester  John,  A  medieval  " b"face  twitched  in  the  midnight  skin.  &quot;Do  not  eat  raw  meat.  The  uninitiated  vomit  for  days.&quot;  He  relaxed,  slumped  in  his  gaudy  robes.  &quot;Yes.&quot;  His  voice  went  high  again,  reedy,  mockingly  in-  formative.  &quot;In  this  ancient  kingdom,  misplaced  to  Africa,  we  have  been  com-  pelled  to  raise  theart  of  living  to  the  point  of  the  tenuous.&quot;  Though  the  party  was  gathering  strength,  the  voung  556e6974656420537461746573ns  were  tired.  The  Queen  of  Sheba  and  Pres-  ter  John  insisted  on  accompanying  them  back  to  the  hotel,  since  marauders  roam  the  slums  with  impunity,  the  poverty  is  acute  despite  massive  infu-  sions  of  United  [REDACTED]  aid,  corruption  and  reaction  reign  here  as  everywhere  save  4368696e61,  not  even  one's  driver  of  twenty  years'  service  can  be  trusted,  terrorists  on  behalf  of  Eritrean  inde-  pendence  are  ubiquitous.  A  curious  op-  tical  effect:  in  the  darkness  within  the  car,  the  two  legendary  457468696f706961ns  dis-  appeared  but  for  their  clothes,  which   rustled  with  utmost  courtesy,  and  but  for  their  words,  paraphrased  above.  Nevertheless,  a  disturbing  and  flattering  possibility,  indecent  yet  not  impractical,  communicated  itself  to  the  minds  of  their  guests,  as  through  layers  of  flut-  tering,  tearing  silk.  In  the  cool  lobby  their  shouted  farewells  echoed  of  disap-  pointment.  Oh,  what  was  the  custom?  In  his  twin  bed  on  the  ninth  floor,  the  man  of  the  young  couple  thought,  The  Queen  of  Sheba,  black  yet  not  Black,  boyoboyoboy.  Mine,  she  could  be  mine,  as  the  darkness  inside  me  is  mine,  as  the  spangled  night  sky  is  mine.  God,  I  love  this  country.  The  " b"jewels.  The  arid  height.  The  [REDACTED]  corridors  of  greenish  stone.  The  tiny  dried-up  Emperor.  The  bracing  sense  of  never  having  been  colonized  by  any  European  power.  How  long  and  lustrous  her  ebony  limbs  would  feel  in  the  darkness.  But  I  might  disappoint  her.  I  might  feel  lost  in  her.  She  might  mock  me.  My  sick-  ly  pallor.  My  Free  World  hang-ups.  Better  simply  snap  her  picture  when  she  undresses.  But  the  flash  batteries  died  in  the  Ser-  engeti,  that  night  by  the  water  hole.  Darn  it!  Her  breasts.  Armpits.  Belly.  Down,  down  he  is  led  from  one  dusky  thought  to  the  next.  Would  the  granny  glasses  come  off  first,  or  last?  And  beside  him  his  fair  wife  on  her  twin  bed  thinks  of  airplanes.  She  dreads  flying,  especially  in  [REDACTED],  with  its  high  es-  carpments,  small  national  budget,  daredevil  pilots  trained  by  Alitalia.  Per-  haps  if  she  slept  with  Prester  John,  by  one  of  his  miracles  he  could  prevent  her  plane  from  crashing.  Sleeping  with  men,  especially  black  men,  more  fancy  than  fact,  if  they  gave  women  decent  educa-  tions  they  could  think  about  something  else.  But  still  ...  His  wicked  ascetic  smile  and  look  of  monkish  sorrow  did  cut  into  her.  In  the  car,  his  touch,  or  a  fold  of  his  silken  robe,  accidentally?  If  he  could  guarantee  on  a  stack  of  Bibles  the  plane  wouldn't  crash  ...  The  dedi-  cated  hijackers  with  stockings  over  their  faces,  the  sudden  revolver  shots  from  the  security  guards  disguised  as  Lebanese  businessmen,  the  rush  of  air,  the  lurch  above  the  clouds,  the  inane  patterof  the  brave  stewardesses,  the  lurid  burst  of  flame  from  the  port  en-  gine,  the  longslow  nightmare  fall,  the  mile-wide  splash  of  char  on  the  earth,  the  scattered  suitcases  .  ..  Oh  God  yes,  I'll  do  anything  you  want,  consider  me  your  slave,  your  toy.  For  without  life,  how  can  there  be  virtue?  BECAUSE  of  security  checks,  one  must  appear  at  the  airport  two  and  a  half  hours  before  scheduled  de-  parture  time.  He  is  in  the  glass-walled  hotelshop,  dickering  with  the  Queen  of  Sheba  for  a  Coptic  cross.  He  has  re-  duced  her  price  to  fourteen  hundred  457468696f706961n  dollars,  which  is  no  longer  divisible  by  seven  in  his  head,  because  of  the  most  recent  556e6974656420537461746573n  dollar  de-  valuation.  Fourteen  hundred  divided  by  two  and  one-third  minus  a  little  .  ..  She  is  bored.  The  Queen  of  Sheba  thrusts  a  retractable  ball-point  into  her  towering  teased  coiffure,  and  her  ebony  fingers  drum  with  surprising  percussive  effect  on  a  glass  case.  Her  nose  is  straight,  her  nostrils  narrow.  She  sighs.  These  Amer-  icans,  rendered  insubstantial  by  rising  gold,  like  drops  of  water  running  from  the  back  of  an  aroused  crocodile.  He  asks,will  she  accept  a  credit  card?  Prester  John  appears,  in  shabby  liv-  ery,  with  the  young  556e6974656420537461746573n  wife  in  tow.  She  is  flushed,  pink,  sleepy.  Though  the  lobby  is  cool,  blond  ring-  lets  cling  to  her  brow.  Hurry,  the  clev-  er  little  black  man  says,  you  must  see  the  monastery,  there  is  just  time  before  the  airplane,  it  has  been  arranged.  Trailing  protests  like  dust,  the  young  556e6974656420537461746573n  is  led  through  the  lobby,  away  from  his  luggage.  It  is  not  the  usual  limousine  this  time  but  a  little  red  Fiat.  Prester  John  does  not  seem  to  un-  derstand  thegears.  As  he  grapples  with  them,  he  looks  comically  like  Sammy  Davis,  Jr.  They  head  out  of  the  city,  uphill;  the  paved  road  becomes  dirt.  Prester  John  gossips  nervouslyabout  the  Queen  of  Sheba.  &quot;She  is  a  magnifi-  cent  woman,  but  thoroughly  Oriental.  I  enjoy  her  loyalty,  but  am  vexed  by,  how  shall  I  say,  the  lack  of  stereo  in  her  sensibility.  She  cannot  lift  her  thoughts  above  jewelry,  lechery,  and  airbases.  My  intention  was  to  irradiate  her  with  Christian  faith,  fresh,  even  raw,  from  thedesert  Fathers-to  make,  here,  upon  this  plateau,  a  dream  to  solace  the  tormented  sleep  of  Europe.  Instead,  she  has  made  of  it  something  impossibly  heavy,  a  mere  fact,  like  the  Catholicism  of  Ireland,  or  the  Communism  of  Al-  bania.&quot;  He  cannot  move  the  gearshift  above  second  gear,  so  thus  roaring  they  proceed  up  a  dirt  road  transected  by  ridges  of  rock  like  the  backs  of  sleeping  hippopotami.  At  first,  clouds  of  peo-  ple  in  white  had  rimmed  the  roadway;  now  they  meet,  and  swerve  to  avoid,  intermittent  donkeys  and  women  stag-  gering  beneath  wide  bundles  of  little  trees.  One  of  these  women,  bent  double  like  a  scorpion,  in  rags,  her  feet  bare,  withlong  dark  heels  and  pale,  cracked  soles,  looks  familiar;  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  turns  in  his  seat.  Dust  obscures  his  view.  He  is  certain  only  that  she  was  not  wearing  her  granny  glasses.  Prester  John  sweats,  embarrassed.  The  " b'road  is  all  rocks  now,  tan,  with  a  white  dusting.  &quot;I  am  growing  worried,&quot;  he  confesses,  &quot;about  your  airplane.  It  is  possible  I  underestimated  the  dif-  ficulty.&quot;  He  stops  the  car  where  the  view  falls  away  on  one  side.  The  Hil-  ton  pool  twinkles  like  a  dim  star  far  be-  low  them.  On  the  other  side,  stony  sere  pastures  mount  to  a  copse  of  viridian  trees.  Between  the  trees  peep  ruddy  hints  of  a  long  wall.  That  is  the  mon-  astery.  &quot;Perhaps,&quot;  Prester  John  offers  nervously,  &quot;a  photograph?  I  am  pro-  foundly  sorry;  the  road,  and  these  re-  calcitrant  gears  ...&quot;  What  the  young  556e6974656420537461746573n  sees  through  his  finder  looks  exactly  like  the  sepia  illustrations  in  his  Sunday-school  Bible.  He  sets  the  lens  at  infinity  and  snaps  the  shutter.  But  his  inward  at-  tention  is  upon  his  wife,  for  her  calm-  ness,  as  their  next  airplane  flight  draws  nearer,  puzzles  him.  Prester  John  grindingly  backs  the  Fiat  around  and  hurtles  downward  along  the  cruel  road  of  rocks;she  lightly  smiles  and  with  dusty  fingertips  brushes  back  the  hair  from  her  drying  brow.  She  feels  she  is  already  on  the  airplane-all  of  [REDACTED]  is  an  airplane,  thousands  of  feet  above  sealevel;  and  it  cannot  crash.  This  is  true. '