 b"GETTING  through  the  night  is  becoming  harder  and  harder.  Last  evening,  I  had  the  uncasy  feeling  that  some  men  were  trying  to  break  into  my  room  to  shampoo  me.  But  why?  I  kept  imagining  I  saw  shadowy  forms,  and  at  3  a.m.  the  underwear  I[  had  draped  over  a  chair  resembled  the  Kaiser  on  roller  skates.  When  I  finally  did  fall  asleep,  I  had  that  same  hideous  nightmare  in  which  a  woodchuck  is  trying  to  claim  my  prize  at  a  raffie.  Despair.  I  believe  my  consumption  has  grown  worse.  Also  my  asthma.  The  wheezing  comes  and  goes,  and  I  get  dizzy  more  and  more  frequently.  I  have  taken  to  violent  choking  and  fainting.  My  room  is  damp  and  I  have  perpetual  chills  and  palpitations  of  the  heart.  I  noticed,  too,  that  I  am  out  of  napkins.  Will  it  never  Stop?  Idea  for  a  story  :  A  man  awakens  to  find  his  parrot  has  been  made  Secretary  of  Agriculture.  He  is  consumed  with  jealousy  and  shoots  himself,  but  unfor-  tunately  the  gun  is  the  type  with  a  lit-  tle  flag  that  pops  out,  with  the  word  &quot;Bang&quot;  on  it.  The  flag  pokes  his  eye  out,  and  he  lives-a  chastened  human  being  who,  for  the  first  time,  enjoys  the  simple  pleasures  of  life,  like  farm-  ing  or  sitting  on  an  air  hose.  Thought:  Why  does  man  kill!  He  kills  for  food.  And  not  only  food:  fre-  quently  there  must  be  a  beverage.  Should  I  marry  W.?  Not  if  she  won't  tell  me  the  other  letters  in  her  name.  And  what  about  her  career?  How  can  I  ask  a  woman  of  her  beauty  to  give  up  the  Roller  Derby?  Deci-  sions  .  ..  Once  again  I  tried  committing  sui-  cide-this  time  by  wetting  my  nose  and  inserting  it  into  the  light  socket.  Unfortunately,  there  was  a  short  in  the  wiring,  and  I  merely  caromed  off  the  iccbox.  Still  obsessed  by  thoughts  of  death,  I  brood  constantly.  I  keep  won-  dering  if  there  is  an  afterlife,  and  if  there  is  will  they  be  able  to  break  a  twenty?  I  ran  into  my  brother  today  at  a  funeral.  We  had  not  seen  one  an-  other  for  fifteen  years,  but  as  usual  he  produced  a  pig  bladder  from  his  pocket  and  began  hitting  me  on  the  head  with  it.  Time  has  helped  me  understand  him  better.  I  finally  real-  ize  his  remark  that  I  am  &quot;some  loath-  some  vermin  fit  only  for  extermination&quot;  was  said  more  out  of  compassion  than  anger.  Let's  face  it:  he  was  always  much  brighter  than  me-wittier,  more  cultured,  better  educated.  Why  he  is  still  working  at  McDonald's  is  a  mys-  tery.     Idea  for  story:  Some  beavers  take  over  Carnegie  Hall  and  perform  &quot;Wozzeck.&quot;  (Strong  theme.  What  will  be  the  structure?  )  OOD  Lord,  why  am  I  so  guilty?  Is  it  because  I  hated  my  father?  Probably  it  was  the  veal-parmigian'  incident.  Well,  what  was  it  doing  in  his  wallet?  If  I  had  listened  to  him,  I  would  be  blocking  hats  fora  living.  I  can  hear  him  now:  &quot;'To  block  hats-  that  is  everything.&quot;  I  remember  his  reaction  when  I  told  him  I  wanted  to  write.  &quot;The  only  writing  you'll  do  is  in  collaboration  with  an  owl.&quot;  I  still  have  no  idea  what  he  meant.  What  a  sad  man!  When  my  first  play,  &quot;A  Cyst  for  Gus,&quot;  was  produced  at  the  Lyceum,  he  attended  opening  night  in  tails  and  a  gas  mask.  Today  I  saw  a  red-and-yellow  sunset  and  thought,  How  insignifi-  cant  I  am!  Of  course,  I  thought  that  yesterday,  too,  and  it  rained.  I  was  overcome  with  self-loathing  and  con-  templated  suicide  again-this  time  by  inhaling  next  to  an  insurance  sales-  man.  Short  story:  A  man  awakens  in  the  morning  and  finds  himself  transformed  into  his  own  arch  supports,  (This  idea  can  work  on  many  levels.  Psychologi-  cally,  it  is  the  quintessence  of  Kruger,  Freud's  disciple  who  discovered  sex-  uality  in  bacon.)  How  wrong  Emily  Dickinson  was!  Hope  is  not  &quot;the  thing  with  feathers.&quot;  The  thing  with  feathers  has  turned  out  to  be  my  nephew.  I  must  take  him  to  a  specialist  in  [REDACTED].  I  have  decided  to  break  off  my  engagement  with  W.  She  doesn't  understand  my  writing,  and  said  last  night  that  my  &quot;Critique  of  Meta-  physical  Reality&quot;  reminded  her  of  &quot;Airport.&quot;  We  quarrelled,  and  she  brought  up  the  subject  of  children  " b"again,  but  I  convinced  her  they  would  be  too  young.  Do  I  believe  in  God?:  I  did  until  Mother's  accident.  She  fell  on  some  meat  loaf,  and  it  penetrated  her  spleen.  She  lay  in  a  coma  for  months,  un-  able  to  do  anything  but  sing  &quot;Gra-  nada&quot;  to  an  imaginary  herring.  Why  was  this  woman  in  the  prime  of  life  so  afflicted-because  in  her  youth  she  dared  to  defy  convention  and  got  married  with  a  brown  paper  bag  on  her  head?  And  how  can  I  believe  in  God  when  just  last  week  I  got  my  tongue  caught  in  the  roller  of  an  electric  typewriter?  I  am  plagued  by  doubts.  What  if  everything  is  an  illusion  and  nothing  exists!  In  that  case,  definitely  overpaid  for  my  carpet.  If  only  God  would  give  me  some  clear  sign!  Like  making  a  large  deposit  in  my  name  at  a  Swiss  bank.  AD  coffee  with  Melnick  today.  He  talked  to  me  about  his  ideaof  having  all  government  officials  dress  like  hens.  Play  idea:  A  character  based  on  my  father,  but  without  quite  so  prominent  a  big  toe.  He  is  sent  to  the  Sorbonne  to  study  the  harmonica.  In  the  end,  he  dics,  never  realizing  his  one  dream-  to  sit  up  to  his  waist  in  gravy.  (I  see  a  brilliant  second-act  curtain,  where  two  midgets  come  upon  a  severed  head  in  a  shipment  of  volleyballs.)  While  taking  my  noon  walk  today,  I  had  more  morbid  thoughts.  What  is  it  about  death  that  bothers  me  so  much?  Probably  the  hours.  Melnick  says  the  soul  is  immortal  and  lives  on  after  the  body  drops  away,  but  if  my  soul  exists  without  my  body  I  am  con-  vinced  all  my  clothes  will  be  too  loose-  fitting.  Oh,  well  .  ..  Did  not  have  to  break  off  with  W.  after  all,  for,  as  luck  would  have  it,  she  ran  off  to  [REDACTED]  with  a  profes-  sional  circus  geek.  All  for  the  best,  I  suppose,  although  I  had  another  of  those  attacks  where  I  start  coughing  out  of  my  ears.  Last  night,  I  burned  all  my  plays  and  poetry.  Ironically,  as  I  was  burn-  ing  my  masterpiece,  &quot;Dark  Penguin,&quot;  the  room  caught  fire,  and  I  am  now  the  object  of  a  lawsuit  by  some  men  named  Pinchunk  and  Schlosser.  Kierkegaard  was  right."