 b"JUST  before  she  went  away  to  live with  the  red-bearded  harpsichord-  maker,  our  daughter  asked  us  how  to  jitterbug.  She  had  found  these  old  Glenn  Miller  records  in  the  closet.  Eileen  and  I  were  embarrassed  to  tell  her  we  didn't  know  how;  though  the  jitterbug  had  been  of  our  era,  it  was  an  era  of  the  survival  of  the  fittest,  and  for  every  Jack  and  Jill  triumphantly  twirl-  ing  on  the  gymnasium  floor  to  the  local  version  of  the  Big  Band  sound  there  was  a  clutch  of  Eileens  and  Geoffreys  slumping  enviously  against  the  padded  wall,  or  huddling  in  the  bleachers,  wondering  how  it  was  done,  wondering  if  anyone  who  knew  how  would  ever  invite  them  to  dance.  How  much  kinder,  we  urged  upon  our  daughter,  of  your  own  generation  to  invent  dances  that  require  no  skill,  that  indeed  cannot  be  done  wrong,  and  that  therefore  do  not  create  hurtful  dis-  tinctions  between  the  ins  and  the  outs,  the  deft  and  the  gauche,  the  beautiful  and  the  un-.  Our  daughter  looked  at  us  with  wide  eyes.  Her  face  is  mostly  frontal,  like  a  cat's.  As  she  turned  eighteen  her  eyes    were  exchanging  that  staring  look  of  childhood  for  something  softer  and  more  inward,  with  a  margin  of  dis-  trust  to  it,  to  cushion  amazement.  But  how,  she  seemed  now  to  be  asking,  amazed,  could  two  people  unable  even  to  jitterbug  manage  to  get  together  and  have  we?  She  had  been  our  first  child.  In  our  simplicity  we  had  called  her  Joy.  There  was  dancing,  in  those  last  glimpses.  My  daughter  had  been  taking  ballet  at  school  and  would  do  back-  bends  and  cartwheels  on  the  lawn,  or  slow,  rolling  splits  and  stretches  in  the  front  hall.  For  her  birthday  I  had  bought  her  an  exercise  bar,  to  use  in  her  room,  but  she  preferred  the  front  hall,  where  the  mailman  sometimes  showered  letters  in  upon  her.  Her  body,  in  black  tights  and  leotard,  was  de-  veloping  muscles  and  length;  the  front  hall  was  too  small,  really,  for  these  ex-  tensive  exercises,  which  included  rest-  ing  her  head-golden  hair,  platinum  nape-between  her  knees,  and  then  snapping  it  up,  so  that  her  eyes  in  her  sudden  round  face  looked  surprised  at  something  discovered  in  mine.  On  her  body  the  black  cloth  paled  wherever  it  stretched  around  a  bulge.  Though  we  failed  to  teach  her  to  jitterbug  (the  motions  she  improvised  to  go  with  &quot;In  the  Mood&quot;  and  &quot;I've  Got  a  Gal  in  Kalamazoo&quot;  owed  more  to  the  African  Dance  Troupe  than  to  the  crisp,  tart  forties),  she  taught  her  younger  brother  how  to  hold  a  girl  and  sway  to  James  Taylorand  Carole  King.  They  did  this  in  the  study,  where  years  ago  the  record-player  had  been  mistakenly  installed.  Looking  up  from  trying  to  read,  I  would  see  his  face  on  her  shoulder,  chin  high  be-  cause  she  was  taller,  the  angel  face  of  my  second  son  half  lost  in  his  sister's  hair  and  engulfed  by  bliss,  his  eye-  lashes  extensions  of  the  sparkle  of  his  slitted  eyes  as  he  and  she  swayed  like  seaweeds  in  the  waves  of  amplified  music-their  feet,  as  far  as  I  could  see,  doing  no  steps  at  all.  &quot;Isn't  Joy  nice  to  Ethan?&quot;  I  asked  Eileen  later,  somewhat  rhetorically.  She's  nice  to  all  of  us  these  days,&quot;  she  replied.  It  was  true.  She  set  the  dinner  table  for  her  mother  and  did  the  dishes.  She  read  her  little  sister  bedtime  stories,  I  would  see  them,  the  two  girls,  framed  by  the  doorway  into  Katharine's  room,  sit-  ting  on  the  bed  beneath  the  tacked-up  pictures  of  horses  and  dogs,  Joy's  face  solemn  as  a  Sunday-school  teach-  er's,  Kate's  rapt  as  an  acolyte's,  the  two  pro-  files  bent  toward  each  other,  symmetrical,  for  all  the  six  years  be-  tween  them,  but  that  the  younger  girl's  fore-  head  had  an  appre-  hensive  outward  curve  whereas  Joy's  brow  was-is-flat  and  de-  termined  and  square.  Katharine  at  twelve  was  going  through  a  troubled  time.  Joy  would  be  talking  to  her  about  grades,  or  diets,  or  their  grandmother.  My  mother  was  dy-  ing,  that  same  spring,  of  cancer.  The  last  time  she  came  to  the  house  (she  knew  it  was  the  last  time  but  dis-  dained  to  admit  it,  as  she  disdained  to  admit  she  was  dying;  she  had  been  a  lifelong  under-  stater;  her  last  words,  " b"to  the  attendingnurse  and  me,  were  &quot;Well,  much  obliged&quot;)  Joy  hugged  her  at  parting.  A  shy  sideways  hug,  for  the  old  lady  had  grown  frail  as  sticks,  her  walk  aprecarious  shuf-  fle.  &quot;Hope  you  soon  feel  better,&quot;  Joy  said,  hesitat-  ing  and  almost  blush-  ing  over  the  &quot;feel  bet-  ter,&quot;  knowing  it  was  im-  possible.  How  big  she  looked!  -broad-shoul-  dered,  freckled,  at  the  height  of  health-beside  the  stoic  wraith  from  whom  she  was  descend-  ed.  And  it  was  as  if,  in  one  of  those  thrilling  swift  crossovers  the  good  jitterbuggers  could  do,  they  had  switched  posi-  tions  from  the  distant  moment  when  my  tod-  dling  daughter  had  fall-  en  against  ahot  wood  stove  in  [REDACTED]  and  her  grandmother,  so  calm  the  cigarette  never  left  her  mouth,  applied  ice  and  butter  and  soothing  words  to  the  scorched  arm  that  must  have  felt,  to  the  astonished,  shrick-  ing  child,  seized  by  death  itself.  At  the  funeral,sur-  prising  me,  Joy  and  Katharine  not  only  prayed,  they  got  up  on  their  knees  on  the  kneeling  stool,  in  stiff  Episcopalian  style.  And,  their  faces  covered  by  their  hands,  they  looked  like  twins,  in  dresses  Joy  had  made  from  the  same  dark,  small-flowered  cloth.  HER  sewing  worried  me.  &quot;All  she  everdoes  is  hang  around  the  house  and  sit  in  her  room  and  sew.  She  acts  like  some  little  spinster.  Why  doesn't  she  ever  go  outwith  boys?  It  isn't  as  if  she's  ugly.  Is  she?&quot;  &quot;Are  you  asking  seriously?&quot;  my  wife  asked.  &quot;I  am.  I  can't  tell.  She's  my  daugh-  ter.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;You're  shocking.  She's  gorgeous.  Boys  her  own  age  just  don't  turn  her  on.&quot;  &quot;The  reason  you're  so  complacent  about  it,&quot;  I  told  Eileen,  &quot;is  she  does  all  your  housework  for  you.&quot;   &quot;She  enjoys  doing  it.  She's  learning  something.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,  how  to  be  Cinderella.&quot;  &quot;If  that's  your  analogy,  relax.&quot;  Left  to  rust  in  her  room,  the  sewing  machine  is  no  trouble;  but  the  rooster  is.  My  daughter  insisted,  with  all  the  determination  in  her  solid  brow  (as  a  baby  she  used  to  beat  it  against  the  bars  of  the  crib  until  we  would  lift  her  out  ),  on  getting  chickens.  Chickens?  In  our  little  yard?  She  said  they  would  take  up  no  room.  They  would  turn  our  garbage  into  fresh  eggs.  They  would  in  them-  selves  constitute  a  natural  cycle.  Com-  pared  to  an  automobile,  they  consumed  almost  nothing.  They  would  be  acs-  thetic  and  amusing.  Chickens.  Our  bargain  went  that  she  would  buildthe  pen  and  little  chicken  house  with  me;  but  something  about  the  hammering  and  sawing  and  the  size  of  the  nails  and  the  roughness  of  my  construction  pained  her,  for  she  wan-  dered  away,  and  I  built  it  alone.  Mark,  our  older  son,  came  out  I  thought  to  help,  but  he  only  intended  to  com-  plain.  &quot;God,  Dad,  it's  homely.&quot;  &quot;I'm  making  it  the  best  I  can.&quot;  &quot;It's  notyou,  it's  the  idea.  Why  should  she  have  chickens?  You  won't  even  let  me  have  a  .22.  Think  of  the  noise  pollution.  Think  of  the  feathers,  Dad.&quot;  &quot;I  agree,  I  agree.  Could  you  hold  this  two-by-four  steady  while  I  nail  it  down?&quot;  &quot;And  another  thing,  I  hate  the  way  she  drives  the  car.  She's  going  to  kill  " b"somebody,  Dad,  and  you're  going  to  have  to  pay  for  it.&quot;  Joy  had  consented  to  apply  for  her  driver's  license  just  that  winter,  after  holding  out,  for  ecology's  sake,  since  the  age  of  sixteen.  It  was  true,  when  she  drove  the  Ford  the  machine  became  loose-jointed  and  precarious  in  flight,  like  a  flamingo.  Beside  her  in  the  pas-  senger's  seat,  I  felt  she  was  brushing  things-mailboxes,  hydrants-from  the  side  of  the  road.  Whereas  when  Mark,  freshly  sixteen  and  instantly  equipped  with  a  learner's  permit,  drives,  the  au-  tomobile  crouches  low  to  the  ground  and  noses  rapidly  along  the  highway  like  a  tracking  beagle,  with  nervous,  sniffing  jerks.  &quot;Not  to  mention  the  fact,&quot;  he  continued,  &quot;she's  gotten  Ethan  all  stirred  up  about  sex.&quot;  &quot;We  learn  by  living,&quot;  I  told  him,  and  drove  a  nail  to  end  the  conver-  sation.  When  the  chicken  house  was  done,  Joy  came  out  of  hiding  and  admired  it-the  little  sliding  door,  the  roost  hinged  to  swing  upward  so  the  poultry-keeper  (ahem  )  could  sweep  and  change  the  straw.  In  fact  she  did,  at  first,  do  a  conscientious  job,  sweep-  ing,  scattering  grain,  gathering  eggs  in  the  morning  dew  like  some  thick-  waisted  lass  out  of  Hardy.  I  remember  how,  as  I  sat  down  to  breakfast,  she  would  push  open  the  back  door  with  her  shoulder,  her  eyes  starry  above  the  wonder  of  the  eggs  still  warm  in  her  hands.  It  was  my  paternal  duty  to  eat  one.  The  yolks  were  unpleasantly  orange,  thanks  to  the  richness  of  our  garbage.  And  my  daughter  danced  around  my  eating,  celebrating  this  miraculous  completion,  this  cycle,  this  food  for  the  breadwinner,  this  chicken  and  egg.  She  doted  on  those  dowdy  birds.  She  painted  ivy  on  their  house,  watched  them  like  a  scientist,  discov-  ered  that  &quot;pecking  order&quot;&quot;  wasn't  mere-  ly  a  phrase,  papered  the  walls  of  her  room  with  scratchy  drawings  ofchick-  ens,  even  did  poems;  one  line  went,  as  I  remember,  peck  scrawk  scrabble  peck.  For  all  her  mothering,  the  chickens  gradually  ceased  tolay.  The  idea  of  a  rooster  was  hatched  without  consultation  with  me.  One  Thursday  after  work  I  got  out  of  the  car  and  there  hewas,  a  little  red-brown  bird  with  absurdly  long  tail  feathers  and  a  dictatorial  way  of  cock-  ing  his  head.  He  was  smaller  than  the  hens,  but  already  they  followed  him  liquidly,  bubbling  in  their  throats  and  jostling  for  precedence,  as  he  surveyed  the  pen  and  coop  I  had  built,  evidently  for  him.  He  had  been  brought  in  a  psychedelic  Volkswagen  bus  by  a  small  bearded  man  with  pink  eyes  and  a  mussed,  unhappy  air.  Joy,  Eileen,  and  Katharine  were  sitting  with  him  at  the  kitchen  table  in  the  evening  light.  Strange  thing,  both  Joy  and  Eileen  had  cigarettes  in  their  hands.  Eileen  had  quit  when  my  mother's  cancer  was  diagnosed,  and  as  far  as  I  knew  Joyhad  never  started.  The  rooster-  bringer  had  heard  of  our  need  from  a  boyfriend  of  Joy's  ecology  instructor  at  school.  Before  I  arrived,  and  though  he  mumbled,  they  had  drawn  a  sur-  prising  mass  of  information  from  him:  he  was  nearly  thirty,  his  wife  had  left  him  a  while  ago,  the  &quot;bunch  of  peo-  ple&quot;  he  was  living  with  on  this  farm  was  breaking  up,  they  were  giving  everything  away-roosters,  sheep,  the  Rototiller.  Also,  he  had  a  cold,  and  couldn't  find  a  satisfactory  kind  of  industrial  glue  for  his  harpsichords.  Soon  after  Iarrived,  he  left.  &quot;God,  Dad,  he  was  bogus,&quot;  said.  &quot;I  agree.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  he  was  cute,&quot;  Joy  called  from  the  other  room.  This  was  new;  she  never  eavesdropped.  What  other  people  said  or  did,  her  stance  had  been  these  past  vears,  did  not  touch  her.  She  had  lived  in  a  world  of  her  own  mak-  ing,  with  a  serenity  that  floated  dishes  onto  the  table  without  a  click.  Now,  with  a  crash,  her  dependence  on  others,  and  ours  on  her,  was  de-clared.  She  begged  or  stole  the  Ford  so  often  we  had  to  buy  a  second  car:  just  as  the  gas  shortage  overtakes  the  world.  Eileen  is  back  to  doing  the  dishes  and  smoking  a  pack  a  day.  Katharine  says  that  if  Joy  could  have  chickens  she  doesn't  see  why  she  can't  have  some  sheep  in  the  back  yard.  They  would  keep  the  grass  short  for  me.  Their  wool  would  be  worth  money.  They  would  look  pretty.  Mark  has  offered  to  shoot  the  chickens  with  his  new  .22.  Ethan,  his  first  partner  fled,  now  goes  to  dances  at  the  junior  high,  one  of  my  neckties  knotted  loose,  his  hair  combed  without  our  nagging;  he  is  so  dolled  up  and  beautiful  we  all  have  to  laugh  at  him  before  he  goes.  As  to  Joy's  departure,  it  was  hurried  and  at  the  time  not  very  real  to  the  rest  of  us.  I  retain  no  glimpses.  What  coat  was  she  wearing?  What  suitcase  did  she  take?  Did  she  slam  the  door?  She  may  have  said  &quot;Much  obliged,&quot;  but  I  didn't  hear  it.  The  house  seems  bigger.  The  rec-  ord-player,  after  its  spell  of  Ralph  Kirkpatrick,  is  back  to  Carole  King,  or  silent.  The  front  hall  is  clear  to  traffic.  We  come  and  go.  Sometimes  days  pass  before  one  of  us  remembers  to  bring  in  the  eggs.  Irregularly  fed,  the  flock  pecked  a  gap  beneath  the  chicken  wire,  and  gets  into  the  neighbor's  let-  tuce.  During  one  such  outing,  another  neighbor's  Labrador  carried  off  the  white  hen  with  a  toe  missing-the  low-  est  in  the  pecking  order,  cannily.  How  did  the  dog  know?  He  carried  her  in  his  mouth,  white  as  fresh  laundry  in  the  dusk,  up  into  the  pines;  the  children  heard  her  squawk  and  throbble  until  night  fell.  " b'If  all  is  not  well  with  his  world,  the  rooster  never  admits  it.  Every  morning,  he  gets  up  on  those  Ruberoid  self-seal-  ing  Slate  Green  asphalt  shingles  I  hammered  down  to  make  a  roof  for  him,a  midair  hop  and  skip  from  my  bedroom  window,  and  he  crows.  Lying  awake,  I  can  hear  him  practicing  his  crow  in  the  small  hours,  inside  his  house:  a  rather  gentle,  even  wheezy,  half-unfurling  of  the  magic  scroll  in-  side  his  chest.  Maybe  he  is  dreaming  of  the  dawn,  maybe  the  street  light  fools  him.  But  there  is  no  mistaking  the  real  thing:  as  the  windowpanes  brighten  from  purple  to  mauve  to  white  he  flaps  up  on  his  roof  witha  slap  like  a  news-  paper  hitting  the  porch  and  gives  a  crow  as  if  to  hoist  with  his  own  pure  lungs  that  sleepy  fat  sun  to  the  zenith  of  the  sky.  He  never  moderates  his  joy,  though  I  am  gradually  growing  deafer  to  it.  That  must  bea  difference  be-  tween  soulless  creatures  and  human  beings:  creatures  find  every  dawn  as  remarkable  as  all  the  ones  previous. '