 b"ON  the  firm's  stationery,  the  loose pages  in  disorder,  sent  off  to  me  by  regular  mail  to  a  previous  address,  my  cousin  Daniel  writes  me  that  our  Aunt  Winona  has  passed  away.  A  blow  to  us  all.  A  loss  that  found  him  unprepared.  Among  her  meagre  ef-  fects,  stored  away  in  its  box,  he  found  the  silk  kimono  he  had  brought  her  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Money  given  to  her  she  sent  to  missionaries.  He  writes  me  in  longhand,  filling  the  margins,  using  both  sides  of  the  paper,  giving  vent  to  his  affection,  his  frustration,  his  help-  lessness.  In  the  past  heonly  wrote  such  letters  to  her.  I  see  by  the  date  itis  more  than  three  weeks  since  she  passed  away.  My  fa-  ther's  people,  protesting  but  resigned,  still  reluctantly  die,  or  go  totheir  re-  ward,  but  my  mother's  four  sisters  have  all  passed  away.  The  phrase  is  accurate,  and  I  use  it  out  of  respect  for  the  facts.  Last  summer  we  stopped  in  Boise  tosee  her,  the  house  both  crushed  and  supported  by  huge  bushes  of  lilacs.  When  I  put  my  arms  around  her  she  said,  &quot;''There's  nothing  much  to  me,  is  there?&quot;  One  day  she  would  say,  &quot;Let  me  just  rest  a  moment,&quot;  and  pass  away.  My  aunt's  couch  faced  the  door,  which  stood  open,  the  view  given  a  sepia  tone  by  the  rusted  screen.  At  the  bottom,  where  children  sometimes  leaned,  it  bulged  inward  to  shape  a  small  hole,  The  view  framed  by  the  door  was  narrow  if  seen  from  the  couch.  Lying  there,  my  aunt  took  in  only  what  was  passing:  shedid  not  see  what  approached,  or  how  it  slipped  away.  On.  the  steps  of  the  bungalow  across  the  street  children  often  crouched,  listening  to  summer.  In  the  yard  a  knotted  rope  dangled  a  tire  swing  to  where  it  had  swept  away  the  grass.  A  car  passed,  a  stroller  passed,  music  from  somewhere  hov-  ered  and  passed,  hours  and  days,  weeks  and  months,  spring  to  winter  and  back  to  spring,  war  and  peace,  affluence  and  depression,  loved  ones,  old  ones,  good  ones  and  bad  ones,  all  passed  away.  &quot;Who  is  that?&quot;  she  asked,  as  the  picture  framed  by  the  door  altered.  My  aunt  lay  on  the  couch,  I  was  seated  on  the  ottoman  at  her  side.  We  were  able  to  share  the  sunlit  picture  and  the  wavering  shadow  it  cast  toward  the  porch.  The  glare  of  light  penetrated  the  sleeves  of  an  elder-  ly  lady's  blouse,  and  took  an  X-ray  impression  of  her  bloomers.  Perhaps  my  aunt  knew  her.  Had  she  stopped  to  ad-  mire  the  flowering  lilac,  or  tactfully  attract  my  aunt's  attention?  Her  quan-  dary  had  about  it  something  vague-  ly  imploring,  of  a  person  hopefully  expectant.  If  her  presence  in  the  pic-  ture  gave  it  a  moral,  the  word  &quot;losses&quot;  gave  it  an  appropriate  caption.  Just  losses,  not  specifying  what  they  were.  My  aunt  lifted  her  head  to  call  out,  &quot;Would  you  like  to  step  in?&quot;  Over  the  years,  over  the  decades,  many  people  had.  The  very  young  had  given  way  to  the  very  old,  defying  all  belief  that  they  had  ever  been  children.  Perplexities  of  this  sort  might  lead  my  aunt  to  place  her  face  in  her  hands,  as  if  weeping.  What  she  hoped  to  contain  was  her  laughter,  not  at  all  that  of  an  elderly,  religious  woman.  On  my  father's  side  all  of  my  Protestant  aunts  shared  a  common  ceremony  to  ease  the  pain  of  this  world,  uttering  no  word  as  they  gathered  their  aprons  to  hurl  them  like  tent  flaps  over  their  heads.  My  Aunt  Winona  laughed:  one  might  think  it  the  muffled  mirth  of  a  child.  Her  neph-  ews  and  nieces,  the  offspring  of  God-  fearing  parents,  had  grown  up  to  be  thrice  married  or  worse,  and  divorced,  their  belief  limited  to  one  remaining  ar-  ticle  of  Faith-that  she  would  under-  stand.  She  did  not  understand,  not  for  a  moment,  but  their  belief  released  the  resources  of  her  forgiveness,  and  gave  proven  sinners  three  to  four  times  their  share  of  her  concern  and  love.  Perhaps  the  woman  in  the  picture,  poised  like  a  worming  robin,  sensed  the  presence  of  strangers.  She  wheeled  slowly,  her  dangling  bag  brushing  the  tops  of  the  uncut  grass.  Her  bearings  taken,  she  went  off  in  the  direction  from  which  she  had  come.  The  picture  framed  by  the  door,  empty  of  its  pre-  vious  meaning,  called  to  my  attention  the  loose,  dangerous  boards  of  the  porch.  On  the  lower  stoop  one  was  curled  like  a  ski  tip.  Over  the  years  these  boards  had  been  mentioned,  or  were  invisibly  present,  in  much  of  my  aunt's  correspondence.  One  of  her  nephews  al-  ways  planned  to  do  some-  thing  about  them.  Recent-  ly,  however-in  the  last  twenty  years-they  have  paid  her  only  brief,  flying  visits,  in  which  there  was  no  time  to  be  wasted  re-  pairing  porches.  Also,  it  was  the  porch  itself  now,  not  a  few  boards,  that  needed  to  be  replaced.  That  would  require  re-  moving  the  ambush  of  li-  lacs,  replacing  both  the  porch  roof  and  one  wall  of  the  house.  The  floor  in  the  bathroom  tilted  in  a  man-  ner  that  delayed  draining  the  tub.  A  late  addition  to  the  house,  it  had  a  self-  opening  door,  and  guests  had  to  be  warned.  On  our  arrival  we  had  been  given  glasses  of  well  water  for  refreshment.  It  was  water  but  resembled  broth  in  which  life  was  emerging.  About  water  she  was  eccentric.  It  was  her  opinion  that  water  out  of  pipes  lay  at  the  root  of  many  disorders,  including  some  of  her  own.  Well  water,  however,  cleansed  " b"the  system  of  its  poisons.  Wa-  ter  coursing  through  miles  of  pipes  picked  up  poisons.  This  water  came  from  the  well  of  a  friend,  who  brought  it  to  her,  weekly,  in  gallon-size  vinegar  bottles.  From  there  it  was  poured  into  mayonnaise  jars  and  stored  on  the  bottom  shelf  of  the  old  refrigerator.  This  shelf  was  cool  but  not  cold:  one  might  as  well  eat  raw  po-  tatoes  as  pour  ice-cold  water  on  the  stomach.  After  this  wa-  ter  had  sat  for  a  spell,  cooling,  a  sediment  had  collected  on  the  jar's  bottom.  Pouring  the  water  from  the  jar  into  a  glass  stirred  it  up,  so  that  the  varie-  ties  of  life  could  be  studied.  My  wife  had  seen  things  swim-  ming.  I  searched  it  for  some  sign  of  polliwogs.  The  windows  of  the  house  were  cluttered  with  plants  that  filtered  the  light  like  cataracts.  Posses  of  flies  had  their  own  territories,  and  staged  raiding  parties.  A  flyswatter  was  used  to  break  up  these  games  if  they  got  too  rough,.  On  the  wall  beside  the  couch,  tucked  into  a  loose  strip  of  molding,  were  postcards  from  her  far-flung  friends.  One  from  Perth,  [REDACTED],  featured  a  baby  kan-  garoo  peering  from  its  mother's  pouch.  There  were  numberless  cards  of  kit-  tens  playing  with  balls  of  yarn,  kittens  stuffed  into  baskets,  kittens  asleep  with  puppies.  Postcards  from  faraway  places  were  not  unusual,  with  so  many  of  her  friends  being  missionaries  of  the  Ad-  ventist  faith.  With  her  father  and  sisters-the  sisters  could  be  seen  in  a  photo  on  the  bric-a-brac  shelf  behind  her-Aunt  Winona  left  the  plains  at  the  turn  of  the  century  to  settle  on  a  homestead  near  Boise,  [REDACTED].  Her  father  felt  the  plains  of  [REDACTED]  were  getting  crowd-  ed,  and  moved  his  family  of  daughters  westward.  The  two  sons  had  already  taken  off  on  their  own.  Her  father  and  mother  were  shown  in  a  photo  taken  in  the  salon  in  Grand  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  in  1884.  Her  father  is  seated,  and  her  mother  stands  at  his  side,  her  right  hand  resting  on  his  left  shoulder,  more  of  a  bride  in  appearancethan  the  pi-  oneer  mother  of  seven  children.  The  husband  is  holding  the  new  child  in  the  cradle  of  his  arm.  This  child  is  my  mother.  She  will  die  within  a  few  days  of  my  birth.  I  was  a  young  man  of  nineteen  be-  foreI  set  eyes  on  my  aunt  and  other  members  of  my  mother's  family.  I  came  west  from  [REDACTED],  my  locker  covered  with  the  stickers  of  Ivy  League  colleges  I  hoped  to  go  to.  I  wore  a  blue  serge  suit  and  my  first  pair  of  [REDACTED]  garters.  My  grandfather  was  old  but  spry,  a  God-fearing  man  long  pre-  pared  for  God.  I  sawhim  in  the  flick-  ering  glow  of  kerosene  lamps,  a  sec-  ond-time  child  to  his  matronly  daugh-  ters.  Only  my  mother  was  missing:  he  searched  my  face  to  recoup  that  loss.  I  slept  that  night  in  a  large  bed  with  two  uncles,  who  assured  me  that  my  lack  of  Adventist  faith  was  not  crucial.  The  love  of  my  aunts  would  be  more  than  enough  to  get  me  into  Heaven,  if  that  was  my  wish.  In  the  morning  my  Aunt  Winona,  the  only  one  not  to  marry,  stood  in  the  sunlit  kitchen  and  watched  me  eat.  Her  first  love  had  been  the  Lord,  the  sec-  ond  her  father,  and  in  this  world  she  had  found  no  replacement.  It  was  him  she  saw  when  she  gazed  at  me.  She  gave  to  this  farmhouse  kitchen,  the  light  flaming  her  hair,  the  time-stopped  dazzle  of  Vermeer's  paintings.  She  poured  milk  from  abowl,threaded  a  needle,  picked  up  crumbs  from  the  table  with  her  tip-moistened  finger.  She  was  at  once  serene,  vulnerable,  and  un-  shakable,  The  appalling  facts  of  this  world  existed  to  be  forgiven.  In  her  presence  I  was  subject  to  feversof  faith,  to  fits  of  stark  belief.  Like  the  grandfather,  she  saw  me  as  a  preacher  in  search  of  a  flock.  In  a  recent  letter  she  wrote.  When  your  mother  died  my  sister  Vi-  olet,  who  was  married,  wanted  to  take  you,  but  your  father  would  not  consent  to  it.  He  said,  &quot;He  is  all  I  have  left  of  Grace.&quot;  O  dear  boy,  you  were  the  center  ofso  much  suffering,  so  many  losses  you  will  never  know,  realize,  or  feel  ...  What  is  it  I  feel  now,  sitting  here  in  the  full  knowledge  of  my  loss?  In  my  mind's  eye  I  see  her  couch,  now  empty,  the  impression  of  her  figure  like  that  the  wind  leaves  on  tall  grass.  No,  in  the  flesh  there  was  nothing  much  to  her-she  had  reduced  the  terms  by  which  we  measure  real  gains  and  losses.  &quot;Ialways  thought  she  need-  ed  me,&quot;  her  nephew  wrote,  &quot;and  now  I  find  I'm  the  one  who  needs  her.&quot;  That's  a  measurable  loss.  I  weigh  mine  each  time  I  lift  a  glass  of  water  and  note  its  temperature,  its  color,  and  what  it  is  that  swims  I  can  no  longer  see.  "