 b"MONEY  to  exist  in  the  eye  of  the  beholder,  then  I  saw  my  father  as  a  frugal  man.  The  thin  line  that  separates  fru-  gality  from  parsimony,  however,  is  just  thick  enough  to  blur  a  child's  vision,  and  at  times  I  saw  him  as  a  monstrous-  ly  stingy  person.  Yet  I  pitied  him,  even  when  I  was  very  young,  and  if  that  is  so  then  I  must  have  felt  compassion  for  him.  And  compassion  for  a  frugal  fa-  ther  is  easier  to  accept  in  oneself  than  scorn  lavished  on  a  miserly  man.  There  was  a  farmer  named  Emil  Braun  who  lived  near  us  in  Gladstone,  [REDACTED].  The  name  is  easy  for  me  to  remember,  because  Farmer  Brown  was  the  name  of  a  jolly  character  we  sang  about  in  kindergarten:  IF  frugality,  like  beauty,  can  be  said  Farmer  Brown  has  come  to  town,  Ho!  Ho!  Ho!  for  Farmer  Brown!  We  performed  a  little  dance  as  we  sang  the  song.  Emil  Braun  was  a  young  Swiss-  German  immigrant,  and  when  most  of  his  neighbors  had  quit  their  fields  for  the  night  he  could  be  seen  in  his,  work-  ing  in  the  long,  lush  rows  of  celery  he  raised  there,  fireflies  flecking  the  gath-  ering  dusk  around  him.  By  lantern  light  he  loaded  his  truck  with  garden  pro-  duce,  which  he  took  to  market  in  St.  Paul  before  sunrise  the  following  morn-  ing.  One  night  in  August,  he  was  clean-  ing  out  the  stables  in  his  barn  after  ten  o'clock.  A  horse  kicked  him  a  glancing  blow  on  the  skull,  which  left  an  ugly  wound  on  the  side  of  his  head.  He  walked  into  the  kitchen  of  his  house  and  called  for  his  wife  to  get  towels  and  warm  water  to  wash  away  the  straw  and  manure  clinging  to  his  bloodied  hair,  She  wanted  to  send  for  a  doctor,  but  he  refused  to  let  her  make  the  call.  She  worried  that  he  might  develop  lockjaw  and  wanted  him  to  have  an  inoculation  for  it.  He  ordered  her  to  shut  her  mouth  and  wash  the  wound.  She  did  as  she  was  told,  and  he  went  to  bed,  planning  to  go  to  market  the  next  morning  with  his  truckload  of  celery.  During  the  night  he  grew  feverish;  still  he  refused  to  let  his  wife  call  the  doctor.  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  you,  woman?&quot;  he  is  said  to  have  shouted  at  her.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  spend  my  money  before  I  earn  it?&quot;  He  never  drove  that  truck  to  mar-  ket.  A  few  days  later,  he  died,  as  she  had  feared,  of  lockjaw.  When  we  re-  turned  to  school  in  September,  children  who  lived  next  door  to  him  told  me  he  had  died  of  hydrophobia,  because  he  foamed  at  the  mouth.  I  thought  only  mad  dogs  or  people  bitten  by  them  died  from  that.  I  had  terrible  dreams  of  Emil  Braun  looking  like  a  mastiff,  his  jaws  locked  tight,  trying  to  scream  at  his  wife,  foam  covering  his  mouth  in  a  white  lather.  My  mother  used  to  tell  us  of  Emil  Braun  whenever  we  cut  our  feet  while  walking  barefoot  in  the  summer.  She  applied  various  remedies  to  the  cuts,  one  of  them  iodine.  Although  iodine  was  painful,  I  preferred  it  to  peroxide,  which  erupted  in  a  white  foam  on  even  the  tiniest  cut.I  liked  best  a  plantain  leaf  on  which  my  mother  spread  white  bread  soaked  in  cool  milk.  That  was  the  most  soothing  remedy  of  all.  Y  mother  could  never  have  been  accused,  as  Mr.  Braun  accused  his  wife,  of  trying  to  spend  my  father's  money  before  he  earned  it.  Although  he  was  a  machinist  and  worked  in  the  Mississippi  Street  repair  shops  forthe  Northern  [REDACTED]  railroad  in  St.  Paul,  we  lived  on  what  might  be  considered  a  small  farm,  a  few  miles  beyond  the  city.  We  had  two  cows,  Stella  and  Star,  who  were  tethered  on  the  rough  grasses  and  sweet  clover  adjacent  to  the  railroad's  right-of-way.  They  were  milked  twice  a  day  to  provide  an  abun-  dant  supply  of  milk  forthe  seven  chil-  dren  of  the  family.  When  both  cows  were  producing  at  the  same  time  (there  were  dry  spells  when  one  of  them  was  having  a  calf),  my  mother  sold  some  of  the  milk  to  neighbors  for  eight,  and  occasionally  ten,  cents  a  quart.  One  of  my  sisters,  Marguerite  Borghild,  and  I  delivered  the  milk  in  a  little  cart  my  father  made  for  us,  using  the  wheels  from  her  baby  carriage.  With  the  cream  skimmed  from  large  pans  of  milk  placed  in  the  cellar,  my  mother  churned  our  butter.  There  was  always  buttermilk  and  cottage  cheese.  She  had  both  a  strawberry  and  a  rasp-  berry  patch,  and  from  these  she  gath-  ered  enough  fruit  for  jellies,  jams,  and  sauces  to  last  through  the  long  winters.  My  brothers  and  I  gathered  hazelnuts  in  the  woods,  which  we  ripened  in  the  sun  on  the  roof  ofthe  barn.  In  the  evening  when  my  father  came  home  from  the  shop,  we  all  worked  in  the  fields,  where  there  were  potatoes,  sweet  corn  (Golden  Bantam  my  mother  liked  the  best),  and  a  variety  of  other  vege-  tables,  fresh  from  spring  until  fall.  On  Fridays  she  baked  bread-white  and  dark-to  last  us  a  week.  On  Sunday  morning  she  made  doughnuts  to  dip  in  milk,  or  waffles  to  spread  with  berries  and  whipped  cream.  Yet  when  we  needed  new  shoes  my  father  always  took  us  to  a  shoe-repair  shop  on  Seventh  Street  in  St.  Paul  owned  by  an  elderly  white-haired  man  named  John  Hagstrom.  The  name  had  once  been  inscribed  in  flowing  gold  leaf  on  the  window,  but  now  the  window  was  thick  with  dust  and  half  the  let-  ters  were  eroded.  On  the  shelves  of " b"the  shop  were  row  upon  row  of  unclaimed  shoes  wrapped  in  musty  brown  paper.  They  had  been  left  there  by  customers  who  could  not  pay  or  by  immigrants  who  had  gone  west  to  [REDACTED]  or  North  Dakota  and  had  never  returned  to  get  them.  John  Hagstrom  kept  the  shoes  for  three  years  and  then  sold  them  for  the  cost  of  the  repairs.  It  was  impossible  to  know  from  the  appear-  ance  of  the  packages  what  size  the  shoes  in-  side  might  be,  although  the  bulk  and  heft  of  a  package  helped  distin-  guish  children's  and  women's  shoes  from  men's.  While  John  Hag-  strom  sat  patiently  at  his  last,  my  father  rum-  maged  through  the  pack-  ages  for  shoes  to  fit  our  feet.  He  would  unwrap  them  carefully,  and  we  would  try  them  on.  He  seemed  so  pleased  with  himself  when  he  found  a  pair  of  our  approxi-  mate  size  that  I  could  not  bring  myself  to  tell  him  the  truth:  I  never  walked  out  of  John  Hagstrom's  shop  with  a  pair  of  shoes  that  didn't  hurt.  I  don't  know  if  those  unclaimed  shoes  ached  on  my  father's  fect  as  much  as  they  did  on  mine,  but  there  was  an  occasion  when  &quot;they  proved  his  undoing  in  his  performance  as  the  fami-  ly's  Santa  Claus.  My  mother  had  made  a  cos-  tume  for  him,  complete  with  whiskers  and  pack,  and  on  Christmas  Eve  he  pretended  he  had  to  go  down  to  Schocks  Grocery  for  some  lut-fisk-a  dried  cod  loved  by  Norwegians  at  Christmas,  which  could  be  got  at  a  bargain  this  late  in  the  day.  Some  time  after  he  had  left,  there  was  a  knock  at  the  front  door-a  door  used  only  for  company-and  we  all  ran  to  see  who  it  was.  Expressing  great  sur-  prise  at  such  a  call,  my  mother  opened  the  door,  and  there  stood  Santa  Claus  with  a  pack  on  his  shoulder,  We  were  speechless  as  she  welcomed  him  into  the  living  room  and  offered  him  a  chair  next  to  the  Christmas  tree.  He  spoke  to  us  in  a  kindly  voice,  somewhat  hoarse-from  the  cold,  I  thought-and,  miracle  of  miracles,  he  knew  all  our  names.  He  told  us  what  we  might  do  to  make  our  mother  and  father  happy.  Finally,  he  presented  us  each  with  a  toy,  some  candy,  and  a  hand-carved  wooden  whistle.  He  showed  us  how  to  usethe  whistles  by  playing  a  Norwegian  children's  song  we  all  knew  by  heart.  How  wonderful  of  Santa  Claus  to  know  our  favorite  song!  Everything  went  well  until  he  had  to  go  out  into  the  night  to  make  his  other  calls,  even  though  his  pack  was  now  empty.  As  he  stood  by  the  door,  patting  us  on  the  head,  my  eldest  " b"brother,  Henrik,  whispered  to  my  mother,  &quot;Look,  Mama,  Santa  Claus  has  got  Papa's  shoes  on.&quot;  He  had  seen  those  shoes  purchased  at  John  Hag-  strom's  store  three  days  before-my  father's  gift  to  himself.  HE  coins  my  father  carried  in  a  worn  leather  change  purse  could  not  have  been  many-no  more,  I  am  sure,  than  two  dollars  or  so  in  pennies,  nickels,  dimes,  and  quarters.  They  were  shut  from  sight  by  what  I  thought  to  bea  silver  clasp,  because  he  had  brought  it  with  him  from  [REDACTED].  I  know  now  it  was  only  a  nickel  alloy  polished  to  a  dazzling  gleam  from  long  contact  with  his  pocket.  The  clasp,  shaped  like  two  intertwining  serpents,  was  as  difficult  for  him  to  open,  it  seemed  to  me,  as  one  of  the  Chinese  toy  puzzles  given  to  Henrik  one  Christmas.  I  assumed  all  of  Father's  wealth  was  stored  in  that  purse.  When  I  was  tall  enough-about  the  age  of  six  to  peer  into  it  from  above,  I  saw  that  actually  it  had  two  compartments.  As  he  dug  past  the  dimes  and  nickels  in  search  of  a  penny  to  give  us  for  an  occasional  piece  of  candy,  I  stared  in  awe  at  the  second  compartment,  which  seemed  to  bulge  with  a  wad  of  dollar  bills.  They  were  worn  and  rather  dirty  from  what  I  took  to  be  long  and  re-  peated  use  by  him.  I  had  never  seen  one  unfolded  except  on  our  trips  to  John  Hagstrom,  or  on  a  ride  we  had  once  taken  on  a  train  to  Pine  City,     where  my  cousins  lived.  The  first  crisp,  freshly  printed  dollar  bills  I  saw  I  felt  must  have  a  greater  value  than  the  ones  my  fatherstored  in  his  purse;  I  imag-  ined  they  somehow  decreased  in  value  as  they  wore  out.  One  time  when  I  was  eight  or  so,  I  tried  to  calculate  the  extent  of  my  father's  wealth  based  on  the  capacity  of  that  purse.  Ten  dollars'  That  seemed  too  little.  Fifty  dollars?  That  seemed  too  much.  I  knew  that  my  mother  had  paid  thirty  dollars  for  Stella,  her  first  cow;  I  was  there  when  she  bought  her  from  an  itinerant  cow  dealer,  and  I  knew  it  was  a  lot  of  money.  And  once  I  saw  my  mother  smiling  happily  immediately  after  I  overheard  my  father  tell  her  he  had  been  given  a  raise  to  thirty-seven  and  a  half  cents  an  hour.  Ididn't  know  how  many  hours  a  week  he  worked  (he  was  paid  in  a  small  brown  envelope  every  Friday),  but  I  knew  he  left  the  house  every  morning  at  six-thirty  and  came  home  every  evening  shortly  after  six  o'clock,  when  supper  was  ready  and  waiting  for  him.  On  Saturdays,  he  worked  until  three  in  the  afternoon  and  was  home  shortly  after  four.  I  made  a  guess  of  fifty-five  hours,  but  I  couldn't  multiply  thirty-seven  and  a  half  times  fifty-five.  Still,  I  felt  sure  that  it  was  a  tremendous  sum  to  carry  in  one  purse,  I  never  dared  ask  my  teach-  er  in  the  third  grade  to  help  me  with  so  personal  a  problem  for  fear  it  would  reveal  my  father's  actual-possibly  con-  cealed-wealth.  I  tried  looking  up  a  problem  dealing  with  fractions  in  my  brother  Bjorn's  arithmetic  book,  and  I  found  one  multiplying  bushels  of  wheat  by  various  prices.  I  couldn't  figure  out  how  to  translate  bushels  and  prices  into  weekly  wages,  however,  and  gave  up.  How  I  looked  forward  to  reaching  the  age  of  ten!  When  Henrik  and  Bjorn  reached  that  age,  they  were  each  given  a  dime  for  their  birthdays.  ROUND  1924,  when  I  was  four-  teen,  my  father  said  that  Henry  Ford  was  planning  to  offer  his  assem-  bly-line  workers  a  flat  five  dollars  a  day  for  their  labor.  It  was  such  munificence  that  it  attracted  hundreds  of  workers  to  [REDACTED].  My  uncle  was  one  of  these,  and  he  wrote  to  my  father  urging  him  to  join  him  there.  But  my  father  scorned  Henry  Ford,  even  at  five  dol-  lars  a  day,  because  Ford  Motors  was  an  open  shop,  and  only  scabs  and  con-  scienceless  workers  were  attracted  to  it.  He  said  it  was  a  ruthless,  diabolic  scheme(and  for  years  it  succeeded  )  for  shutting  out  the  unions.  He  deplored  my  uncle's  unthinking  acceptance  of  Henry  Ford's  bribe  wages.  My  father  was  a  union  man.  He  be-  longed  to  the  Machinists  Union  when  he  worked  for  the  Northern  [REDACTED].  On  the  first  Monday  in  September  each  year,  he  marched  in  the  Labor  Day  parade  with  the  fellow-members  of  his  local.  He  wore  a  uniform  like  that  of  all  the  members  of  his  union.  It  " b"consisted  of  a  blue  shirt,  a  red  tie,  and  a  white  sailor's  hat-the  colors  of  the  flag-to  show  both  his  solidarity  with  his  union  and  his  loyalty  to  the  coun-  try  of  which  he  had  become  a  citizen.  I  remember  the  parade  of  1920,  I  think  it  was.  As  my  father  left  for  Mississippi  Street,  where  the  men  would  join  ranks  and  march  to  Robert  Street,  in  the  center  of  town,  he  looked  impressive  enough  to  be  a  streetcar  con-  ductor  or  a  fireman.  In  all  my  life  that  was  the  day  I  was  proudest  of  him,  be-  cause,  I  suppose,  he  looked  proudest  of  himself.  The  whole  family  went  into  town  and  watched  the  parade.  As  his  local  walked  past,  some  of  the  men  waved  to  their  families.  My  father  took  the  day  too  seriously  for  that.  He  just  turned  his  head  in  our  direction  and  didn't  even  smile.  For  that  brief  mo-  ment  he  looked  like  a  soldier,  which  he  had  been  during  his  term  of  service  be-  fore  he  left  [REDACTED].  The  following  year,  1921,  or  it  may  havebeen  a  year  later,  there  was  a  strike.  The  various  railroad  unions,  all  except  the  Brotherhood  of  Locomotive     Engineers,  voted  to  strike  for  higher  wages  to  meet  the  rising  cost  of  living  and  inflation  that  had  followed  the  First  World  War.  Picket  lines  were  set  up  around  the  Mississippi  Street  shops,  and  my  father  went  there  each  morning  to  picket  the  shops  and  be  prepared  for  scabs  to  break  in.  We  lived  too  far  away  to  know  what  was  going  on,  but  there  was  a  grimness  in  the  house  as  the  weeks  wore  by  with  no  more  pay  envelopes  on  Friday.  One  day  when  we  went  to  town  to  the  Mu-  nicipal  Free  Dispensary,  where  Henrik  had  to  have  a  tooth  pulled,  my  mother  wouldn't  take  the  streetcar  that  went  past  the  Mississippi  Street  shops,  for  fear  of  violence.  Men  might  throw  stones  at  the  pickets,  she  said.  There  was  talk  of  scabs'  being  brought  in  freight  cars  from  [REDACTED],  to  force  their  way  through  the  lines  by  train  and  so  break  the  strike.  One  evening  after  supper,  I  over-  heard  my  father  say  that  the  railroad   had  made  a  secret  offer  to  some  of  the  Swedes  who  lived  near  us  if  they  would  desert  the  union  and  return  to  work.  For  reasons  I  never  fully  understood,  my  father  did  not  trust  the  Swedes  particularly  the  carpenters,  many  of  whom  had  voted  against  the  strike  in  the  first  place.  Soon  after  this,  when  I  came  home  from  school  for  lunch  I  found  my  father  sitting  at  the  kitchen  table.  He  had  a  bandage  over  one  eye  and  a  dark-  purple  bruise  on  his  cheekbone.  Earlier  that  morning,  the  police  had  forced  their  way  through  the  lines  so  that  some  scabs  could  work  on  the  seven-thirty  shift.  My  father  said  he  had  recognized  several  Swedes  trying  to  cover  their  facesas  they  raced  for  the  safety  of  the  roundhouse  and  shops.  He  never  went  back  to  the  picket  line.  The  strike  was  broken.  The  union  men  who  had  stuck  it  out  to  the  end  lost  their  jobs,  my  father  among  them.  The  men  who  had  broken  thepicket  lines  that  morning  continued  to  work  withonly  a  slight  increase  in  wages,  but  they  retained  their  seniority  rights  in  the  pension  system.  Some  of  the  men  the  same  age  as  my  father  were  able  to  retire  many  years  later  on  those  pen-  sions.  My  father  continued  to  work,  but  in  another  part  of  town,  in  a  factory  that  made  fire  engines.  It  was  a  non-  union  shop-the  only  place  he  could  get  a  job.  Around  1928,  a  year  after  I  had  finished  high  school,  I  learned  he  was  earning  sixty-two  and  a  half  cents  an  hour.  He  worked  a  fifty-hour  week,  and  I  figured  out  that  this  came  to  thirty-one  dollars  and  twenty-five  cents.  What  on  earth  could  he  have  been  mak-  ing  when  I  thought  his  purse  had  been  stuffed  with  dollar  bills?  My  mother  was  bitter  about  all  unions  in  the  years  that  followed  the  strike.  She  said  a  certain  Mrs.  Abraham-  sen,  a  friend  of  hers,  whose  husband  knew  a  man  who  worked  in  the  offices  of  the  Northern  [REDACTED],  had  told  her  that  the  officials  of  the  Machinists  Union  had  absconded  with  the  funds  left  in  the  local's  treasury  and  fled  to  [REDACTED].  There  they  had  spent  the  money  on  wild  parties  at  the  Sherman  Hotel,  where  naked  women  danced  on  the  tables.  I  knew  my  father  would  never  have  spent  his  money  on  anything  like  that."