 b"HE  sits  up  again.  He  makes  a  wild  grab  for  his  mother's  hair.  The  hair  of  his  mother!  But  she  neatly  avoids  him.  The  cook  enters  with  the  roast  beef.  The  mother  of  the  torero  tastes  the  sauce,  which  is  pre-  sented  separately,  in  a  silver  dish.  She  makes  a  face.  The  torero,  ignoring  the  roast  beef,  takes  the  silver  dish  from  his  mother  and  sips  from  it,  meanwhile  maintaining  intense  eye  contact  with  his  mistress.  The  torero's  mistress  hands  the  camera  to  the  torero's  mother  and  reaches  for  the  silver  dish.  &quot;What  is  all  this  nonsense  with  the  dish?&quot;  asks  the  famous  aficionado  who  is  sitting  by  the  bedside.  The  torero  offers  the  aficionado  a  slice  of  beef,  carved  from  the  roast  with  a  sword,  of  which  there  are  perhaps  a  dozen  on  the  bed.  These  fellows  with  their  swords,  they  think  they're  so  fine,&quot;  says  one  of  the  imb\xc3\xa9ciles  to  another,  quietly.  The  sec-  ond  imb\xc3\xa9cil  says,  &quot;We  would  all  think  ourselves  fine  if  we  could.  But  we  can't.  Something  prevents  us.&quot;  The  torero  looks  with  irritation  in  the  direction  of  the  imb\xc3\xa9ciles.  His  mis-  tress  takes  the  8-mm.  movie  camera  from  his  mother  and  begins  to  film  something  outside  the  window.  The  torero  has  been  gored  in  the  foot.  He  is,  in  addition,  surrounded  by  imb\xc3\xa9ciles,  idicias,  and  bobos,  He  shifts  uncom-fortably  in  his  bed.  Several  swords  fall  on  the  floor.  A  telegram  is  delivered.  'The  mistress  of  the  torero  puts  down  the  camera  and  removes  her  shirt.  The  mother  of  the  torero  looks  angrily  at  the  imb\xc3\xa9ciles.  The  famous  aficionado  reads  the  telegram  aloud.  The  tele-  gram  suggests  the  torero  is  a  clown  and  a  cucaracha  for  allowing  himself  to  be  gored  in  the  foot,  thus  both  in-  sulting  the  noble  profession  of  which  he  is  such  a  poor  representative  and  ir-  revocably  ruining  the  telegram  sender's  Sunday  afternoon,  and  that,  further-  more,  the  telegram  sender  is  even  now  on  his  way  to  the  Church  of  Our  Lady  of  Perpetual  Anguish  to  pray  against  the  torero,  whose  future,  he  cordially  hopes,  is  a  thing  of  the  past.  The  tore-  ro's  head  flops  forward  into  the  cupped  hands  of  an  adjacent  bobo.  The  mother  of  the  torero  turns  on  the  television  set,  where  the  goring  of  the  foot  of  the  torero  is  being  shown  first  at  normal  speed,  then  in  exquisite  slow  motion.  The  torero's  head  remains  in  the  cupped  hands  of  the  bobo.  &quot;My  foot!&quot;  he  shouts,  Someone  turns  off  the  television.  The  beautiful  breasts  of  the  torero's  mistress  are  appreciated  by  the  aficionado  who  is  also  an  aficionado  of  breasts.  The  imb\xc3\xa9ciles  and  idiotas  are  afraid  to  look.  So  they  do  not.  One  idiota  says  to  another  idiota,  &quot;I  would  greatly  like  some  of  that  roast  beef.&quot;  &quot;But  it  has  not  been  offered  to  us,&quot;  his  companion  replies,  &quot;because  we  are  so  insignificant.&quot;  &quot;But  no  one  else  is  eating  it,&quot;  the  first  says.  &quot;Itsimply  sits  there,  on  the  plate.&quot;  They  regard  the  attractive  roast  of  beef.  The  torero's  mother  picks  up  the  movie  camera  that  his  mistress  has  re-  linquished  and  begins  filming  the  to-  rero's  foot,  playing  with  the  zoom  lens.  The  torero,  head  still  in  the  hands  of  the  bobo,  reaches  into  a  drawer  in  the  bedside  table  and  removes  from  a  box  there  a  Cuban  cigar  of  the  first  quality.  Two  bobos  and  an  imb\xc3\xa9cil  rush  to  light  it  for  him,  bumping  into  each  other  in  the  process.  &quot;Lysol,&quot;  says  the  mother  of  the  torero.  &quot;I  forgot  the  ap-  plication  of  the  Lysol.&quot;  She  puts  down  the  camera  and  looks  around  forthe  Lysol  bottle.  But  the  cook  has  taken  it  away.  The  mother  of  the  torero  leaves  the  room,  in  search  of  the  Lysol  bottle.  He,  the  torero,  lifts  his  head  and  fol-  lows  her  exit.  More  pain?  His  mother  re\xc3\xa9nters  the  room  carry-  ing  a  bottle  of  Lysol.  The  torero  places  his  bandaged  foot  under  a  pillow,  and  both  hands,  fingers  spread  wide,  on  top  of  the  pillow.  His  mother  unscrews  the  top  of  the  bottle  of  Lysol.  The  Bishop  of  Valencia  enters  with  attendants.  The  Bishop  is  a  heavy  man  with  his  head  cocked  permanently  to  the  left-the  result  of  years  of  hearing  confessions  in  a  confessional  whose  right-hand  box  was  said  to  be  inhabited  by  vipers.  The  torero's  mistress  hastily  puts  on  her  shirt.  The  imb\xc3\xa9ciles  and  idiotas  retire  into  the  walls.  The  Bishop  extends  his  hand.  The  torero  kisses  the  Bishop's  ring.  The  famous  aficionado  does  like-  wise.  The  Bishop  asks  if  he  may  inspect  the  wound.  The  torero  takes  his  foot  out  from  under  the  pillow.  The  torero's  mother  unwraps  the  bandage.  There  is  the  foot,  swollen  almost  twice  normal  size.  In  the  center  of  the  foot,  the  wound,  surrounded  by  angry  flesh.  The  Bishop  shakes  his  head,  closes  his  eyes,  raises  his  head  (on  the  diagonal),  and  murmurs  a  short  prayer.  Then  he  opens  his  eyes  and  looks  about  him  for  a  chair.  An  idiote  rushes  forward  with  a  chair.  The  Bishop  seats  himself  by  the  bedside.  The  torero  offers  the  Bish-  op  some  cold  roast  beef.  The  Bishop  begins  to  talk  about  his  psychoanalysis;  &quot;I  am  a  different  man  now,&quot;  the  Bishop  says.  &quot;Gloomier,  duller,  more  fearful.  In  the  name  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  you  would  not  believe  what  I  see  under  the  bed,  in  the  middle  of  the  night.&quot;  The  Bishop  laughs  heartily.  The  torero  joins  him.  'The  torero's  mistress  is  filming  the  Bishop.  &quot;I  was  happier  with  my  whiskey,&quot;  the  Bishop  " b"says,  laughing  even  harder.  The  laughter  of  the  Bishop  threatens  the  chair  he  is  sit-  ting  in.  One  bobo  says  to  another  bobo,  &quot;The  privi-  leged  classes  can  afford  psy-  choanalysis  and  whiskey.  Whereas  all  we  get  is  ser-  mons  and  sour  wine.  'This  is  manifestly  unfair.  I  pro-  test,  silently.&quot;  &quot;It  is  because  we  are  no  good,\xe2\x80\x9d  the  sec-  ond  bobo  says.  &quot;It  is  be-  cause  we  are  nothings.&quot;  The  torero  opens  a  bottle  of  Chivas  Regal.  He  offers  a  shot  to  the  Bishop,  who  graciously  accepts,  and  then  pours  one  for  himself.  The  torero's  mother  edges  to-  ward  the  bottle  of  Chivas  Regal.  The  torero's  mis-  tress  films  his  mother's  sur-  reptitious  approach.  'The  Bishop  and  the  torero  dis-  cuss  whiskey  and  psycho-  analysis.  The  torero's  moth-  er  has  a  hand  on  the  neck  of  the  bottle.  The  torero  makes  a  sudden  wild  grab  for  her  hair.  The  hair  of  his  mother!  He  misses  and  she  scuttles  off  into  a  corner  of  the  room,  clutching  the  bottle.  The  torero  picks  a  killing  sword,  an  estogue,  from  the  half  dozen  still  on  the  bed.  The  Queen  of  the  Gypsies  enters.  The  Queen  hurries  to  the  torero,  little  tufts  of  dried  grass  falling  from  her  robes  as  she  crosses  the  room.  &quot;Unwrap  the  wound!&quot;  she  cries.  &quot;The  wound,  the  wound,  the  wound!&quot;  The  torero  recoils.  The  Bishop  sits  severely.  His  attendants  stir  and  whisper.  The  to-  rero's  mother  takes  a  swig  from  the  Chivas  Regal  bot-  tle.  The  famous  aficionado  crosses  himself.  The  torero's  mistress  looks  down  through  her  half-  open  blouse  at  her  breasts.  The  torero  quickly  reaches  into  the  drawer  of  the  bedside  table  and  removes  the  cigar  box.  He  removes  from  the  cigar  box  the  ears  and  tail  of  a  bull  he  killed,  with  excellence  and  emotion,  long  ago.  He  spreads  them  out  on  the  bedcovers,  offering  them  to  the  Queen.  The  ears  resemble  bloody  wallets,  the  tail  the  hair  of  some  long-dead  saint,  robbed  from  a  reliquary.  &quot;No,&quot;  the  Queen  says.  She  grasps  the  torero's  foot  and  begins  to  unwrap  the  bandages.  The  torero  grimaces  but  submits.  The  Queen  withdraws  from  her  belt  a  sharp  knife.  The  torero's  mistress  picks  up  a  violin  and  begins  to  play  an  air  byVal-  dez.  The  Queen  whacks  off  a  huge  portion  of  roast  beef,  which  she  stuffs  into  her  mouth  while  bent  over  the  wound-gazing  deeply  into  it,  savor-  ing  it.  Everyone  shrinks-the  torero,  his  mother,  his  mistress,  the  Bishop,  the  aficionado,  the  imb\xc3\xa9ciles,  idiotas,  and  bobos.  An  ecstasy  of  shrinking.  The  Queen  says,  &quot;I  want  this  wound.  This  one.  It  is  mine.  Come,  pick  him  up.&quot;  Everyone  present  takes  a  handful  of  the  torero  and  lifts  him  high  above  their  heads  (he  is  screaming).  But  the  doorway  is  suddenly  blocked  by  the  fig-  ure  of  an  immense  black  bull.  The  bull  begins  to  ring,  like  a  telephone.  "