THE  REVOLT  AT  BROCELIANDE  ACE,  a  Norman  poet  of  the  mid-twelfth  century,  had  heard  so  much  about  the  fairy  King-  dom  of  Broc\xc3\xa9liande,  in  Brittany,  that  he  went  to  see  its  wonders  for  himself;  and  found  nothing,  except  that  he  had  gone  on  a  fool's  errand:  L&amp;  allai  je  merveilles  querre,  Vit  la  forest  et  vit  la  terre,  Merveilles  quis,  mais  ne  trovait:  Fol  m'en  revins,  fol  y  allai,  Fol  y  allai,  fol  m'en  revins  :  Folie  quis,  por  fol  me  tins.  His  intention  defeated  his  purpose.  His  mind  was  full  of  preconceived  ideas  of  what  he  was  in  search  of,  so  his  eyes  saw  nothing.  Mortals  cannot  see  fairies-the  gen-  eralization  is  as  nearly  a  rule  as  any-  thing  in  this  turning  world  can  be.  It  is  certain  that  they  cannot  be  seen  by  those  who  are  looking  for  them.  If  a  fairy  of  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  were  seen,  it  was  by  some  peasant  whose  mind  was  taken  up  with  his  own  concerns-hun-  ger,  a  leaky  roof,  a  lost  cow.  He  saw  it  out  of  the  tail  of  his  eye,  and  wished  he  hadn't,  since  to  see  a  fairy  is  unlucky.  It  was  on  a  day  in  midwin-  ter,  with  the  north  wind  thundering  in  the  forest  and  hail  spiking  the  air,  that  the  turf-cutter's  son  who  had  been  sent  out  to  find  enough  wood  to  warm  a  Sunday  dinner  saw  his  fairies:  two  fat  men,  dressed  in  scarlet,  who  sat  under  a  live  oak,  holding  hands  and  weep-  ing.  He  ran  home  in  ter-  ror,  hitting  his  frostbitten  feet  against  tufts  of  fro-  zen  grass,  and  told  his  parents.  Before  the  end  of  the  week  he  was  dead  of  fever-which  proved  again  that  it  is  unlucky  to  see  a  fairy.  But  this  was  long  be-  fore  Wace's  expedition.  Seeing  nothing,  he  suf-  fered  no  more  than  a  passing  mortification,  and  lived  to  versify  the  story  of  King  Arthur  and  the  Round  Table.  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  was  the  foremost  elfin  court  in  all  Western  Europe,  the  proudest  and  most  ele-  gant.  It  claimed  that  it     had  preserved  the  pure  tradition  of  ancient  4972616e,  where  the  elfin  race  originated.  Its  queens  wore  a  pink  tur-  ban  instead  of  the  usual  crown;  the  royal  wand  was  of  cedarwood  from  the  banks  of  the  Euphrates,  so  massive-  ly  encrusted  with  jewels  that  it  took  a  team  of  courtiers  to  wave  it;  its  ladies-  in-waiting  distilled  an  incomparable  rosewater;  it  kept  a  particular  breed  of  long-furred  cats  and  an  astrologer.  It  was  peculiar  in  having  preserved  a  be-  lief  in  a  supernatural  world,  peopled  by  spirits  of  incalculable  power,  called  Afrits.  The  obligation  to  worship  these  Afrits,  while  at  the  same  time  avert-  ing  their  intervention,  was  carried  out  by  quarterly  ceremonies  of  propitiation.  These  ceremonies  were  preceded  by  a  round  of  pious  cockfights,  after  which  the  victor  cock  was  sacrificed.  Apart  from  the  element  of  piety,  court  life  at  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  was  much  the    same  as  in  other  43616e616461s.  There  were  fashions  of  the  moment-collect-  ing  butterflies,  determining  the  pitch  of  birdsongs,  table-turning,  cat  races,  purifying  the  language,  building  card  castles.  There  were  expeditions  to  the  coast  to  watch  shipwrecks,  summer  pic-  nics  in  the  forest,  deer  hunts  with  the  royal  pack  of  werewolves,  Ambassadors  from  other  courts  complained  that  the  palace,  situated  in  the  depth  of  that  immense  forest,  was  sombre  and  damp;  even  so,  they  ad-  mitted  that  everything  was  carried  on  in  the  best  of  taste,  and  that  its  peculiar  mixture  of  piety  and  fickleness  was  en-  chanting.  It  was,  of  course,  an  expen-  sive  embassy.  There  was  not  a  corner  of  the  palace  where  a  wager  was  not  in  progress:  which  of  two  hailstones  would  be  the  first  to  melt,  the  span  of  a  cat's  whiskers,  which  way  it  would  jump.  And  every  debt  was  a  debt  of  honor.  There  was  a  regular  program  of  racing  events-the  Scullery  Cup,  the  Laundry  Half-Mile,  the  Staff  Handicap.  Lineaged  fairies,  who  would  rather  be  seen  dead  than  seen  fly-  ing,  felt  a  practical  admi-  ration  for  the  speed  of  those  who  flew  on  errands  or  obeyed  the  summons  of  a  silver  whistle.  Serv-  ants  who  excelled  in  pace  or  endurance  were  trans-  ferred  to  the  specialized  se-  clusion  of  race  horses  and  exercised  morning  and  evening;  a  famous  valet  who  had  the  misfortune  to  break  a  wing  was  kept  at  stud  and  sired  several  winners.  It  was  a  custom  that  each  new  queen  should  in-  troduce  a  fresh  4972616en  tradition,.  When  Queen  Melior  assumed  the  pink  turban  she  was  at  a  loss  for  4972616en  traditions  till,  gaz-  ing  at  her  eyebrows  in  a  looking  glass,  she  realized,  with  the  amazement  with  which  one  contemplates  the  dullness  of  one's  prede-  cessors,  that  no  one  had  thought  of  eunuchs.  She  called  an  assembly  and  an-  nounced,  her  wand  being  waved  before  her,  that  she  proposed  to  add  eunuchs  to  her  retinue.  For  the  pres-  ent,  two  would  be  enough.  &gt;  There  were  loud  mur-  murs  of  approval,  low  murmurs  of  doubt.  Who     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  was  she  going  to  pick  on?  Obviously,  some  working  person;  yet  here,  too,  there  were  difficulties.  The  calm  bal-  ance  of  society  depended  on  people  re-  maining  in  their  proper  stations.  The  wand  was  waved  again.  Queen  Melior  continued.  From  each,  she  said,  according  to  his  disposability.  The  eunuchs  should  be  drawn  from  the  ranks  of  the  changelings,  whose  abun-  dance  could  always  supply  another  pair  if  anything  went  wrong  with  the  first  experiment.  Fairies  are  constructed  for  longevity,  not  fertility.  Many  of  the  aristocracy  do  not  breed  at  all;  those  who  do  so  breed  at  long  intervals;  to  have  a  child  after  one's  ninety-ninth  decade  is  thought  rather  vulgar.  But  this  does  notprevent  them  from  delighting  in  small  children.  Couriers  are  sent  pros-  pecting  over  the  human  world  and  where  they  see  a  likely  baby  left  un-  guarded  make  ~off  with  it.  Strong  ruddy  babies  are  most  in  request;  their  unlikeness  to  the  fairy  race  makes  them  engaging.  They  grow  up  as  court  play-  things,  fondled,  indulged,  and  kept  much  cleaner  than  they  would  be  in  human  homes.  Some  penurious  King-  doms,  like  Elfhame  in  [REDACTED],  in-  jected  them  with  a  drug  which  pro-  longed  their  natural  span.  This  was  never  done  at  Broc\xc3\xa9liande,  where  the  freshness  and  fleetingness  of  youth  were  the  prime  desideratum.  All  went  smoothly.  T'wo  handsome,  well-matched  boys  in  their  early  teens  were  chosen.  The  castration  was  per-  formed  by  a  skilled  surgeon  who  flew  from  Byzantium.  A  special  uniform  was  designed,  they  were  given  a  course  in  etiquette  and  deportment,  learning  to  walk  with  measured  steps  and  stand  still  without  fidgeting,  and  a  new  rank  was  invented  for  them,  between  the  Directors  of  Piety  and  the  Ladies  of  Honor.  Their  names  were  Ib  and  Rollo.  They  were  not  altogether  happy  in  their  advancement.  Their  feet  swelled  and  their  backs  ached  from  so  much  standing  about  in  their  attendance  on  the  Queen;  the  other  changelings  laughed  at  them.  Some  of  the  Ladies  of  Honor  were  offended  that  mere  mor-  tals  should  take  precedence  of  them,  and  affected  to  shudder  at  the  prox-  imity  of  anything  so  unnatural  as  a  eunuch;  others,  less  squeamish,  were  sorry  for  the  poor  creatures  and  ques-  tioned  them  maternally.  Their  out-  standing  friend  at  court  was  the  Royal  Favorite.  Male  companionship,  how-  ever  imperfect,  was  a  support  to  him.  He  was  handsome  and  silly,  and  when  Melior  was  cross  they  repaired  his self-esteem.  By  the  time  he  was  re-  placed  and  the  new  Favorite,  who  was  handsome  and  intensely  musical,  had  set  the  whole  court  to  singing  in  four-  part  harmony,  Ib  and  Rollo  had  ceased  to  be  novelties.  Their  traditional  signifi-  cance-which  was  in  fact  as  meaning-  less  as  a  vestigial  button  on  a  suit-  was  forgotten.  However,  they  were  for  the  time  being  useful,  as  they  rein-  forced  the  soprano  voices  in  thepart-  singing.  Persons  deprived  of  their  sex  are  deprived  of  their  intuition:  there  is  no  leap  of  the  heart,  toward  or  against.  They  cannot  even  make  mistakes.  Ex-  isting  in  the  equable  winter  of  reason,  the  best  they  can  do  is  to  see  clear-  ly  and  arrive  at  a  correct  judgment.  Sometimes  in  dreams  both  Ib  and  Rollo  returned  to  the  pell-mell  spontaneity  of  their  young  selves  andwere  delighted,  infuriated,  embarrassed  before  they  could  say  why.  But  time  went  on-a  clock  that  never  lost  a  minute,  never  ran  down.  The  dreams  came  less  often,  the  waking  was  less  lacerating.  Even-  tually,  it  was  not  lacerating  at  all.  They  woke  remembering  that  there  was  something  further  to  be  observed,  an  unaccountable  smile,  gesture,  tilt  of  the  voice  to  be  considered  and  fitted  into  the  correct  judgment  of  a  charac-     ter  or  a  situation.  It  is  this  imperturb-  able  power  of  judging  and  assessing  which  makes  eunuchs  so  powerful  in  court  intrigues  and  palace  revolutions.  But  that  is  in  human  courts  At  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  there  was  a  perfect  loyalty  to  things  as  they  were.  The  boredom  of  court  life  closed  in  on  them-the  boredom  in  which  one  stares,  day  after  day,  at  the  same  face  in  a  tapestry  hanging.  Their  function  kept  them  together,  idling  about  till  some  occasion  called  them  to  stand  on  either  side  of  the  throne.  They  did  not  talk  much:  there  was  nothing  much  to  talk  about;  they  exchanged  comments,  and  agreed  with  each  other.  They  were  figures  in  the  tapestry-rather  portly  figures  by  now,  for  their  human  origin  made  them  large  eaters.  One  evening  Rollo  remarked,  &quot;We  have  not  seen  the  Astrologer  since  the  new  moon.  I  wonder  what  he  does,  sitting  alone  in  his  tower.  He  can't  watch  the  stars  by  day.&quot;  After  a  pause  for  thought,  Ib  said,  &quot;I  suppose  he  sleeps.&quot;  This  degree  of  speculation  was  so  unusual  that  it  pricked  them  into  an  impulse.  Melior  had  taken  a  new  Favorite  and  gone  early  to  bed.  Their  absence  from  the  tapestry  would  not  be  noticed.  They  climbed  the  long  stairway  to  Master  Tarantula's  apartment  at  the  top  of  the     " b"40  tower,  and  knocked  on  his  door.  It  swung  open  and  closed  behind  them.  In  the  middle  of  the  room  was  a  table,  spread  with  a  meal  for  two.  Master  Tarantula  was  playing  solitaire.  &quot;Sit  down,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  was  expecting  you.&quot;  It  was  not  so  surprising  that  they  had  been  expected:  he  was  a  magian,  cast  horoscopes,  read  future  events  in  the  stars.  What  took  them  aback  was  to  find  themselves  welcomed  and  drawn  into  conversation.  They  began  to  talk  themselves,  found  they  had  things  to  say,  found  themselves  listened  to.  The  moon  shone  in  through  the  open  uncur-  tained  window.  Clouds  sailed  across  it,  moving  smoothly  and  rapidly  on  a  steady  wind.  Suddenly  Master  Taran-  tula  got  up,  threw  off  his  cloak,  and  unfurled  a  pair  of  large  wings.  With  one  powerful  stroke,  he  was  out  of  the  window,  breasting  the  air  like  a  strong  swimmer.  'They  watched  him  soar  up-  ward,  vanish  in  a  cloud,  emerge  from  it,  a  black  speck  against  the  moonlight  blue  of  the  sky,  vanish.  It  was  as  if  they  had  never  seen  a  fairyin  flight  before.  They  were  still  speechless  when  he  returned,  neatly  diving  into  the  room  with  his  wings  packed  to  his  sides,  and  finished  the  wine  in  his  glass.  Breath-  lessly  (Master  Tarantula  was  not  in  the  least  out  of  breath)  Ib  asked,  &quot;How  do  you  find  your  way  back?&quot;  &quot;I  call  that  a  very  sensible  question,&quot;  said  Master  Tarantula.  &quot;I  will  explain  when  we  next  meet.  But  now  I  must  send  you  away.  It  is  already  daybreak  in  Bohemia.&quot;  Next  week  the  great  Winter  Candle  was  lit  and  everyone  went  into  furs.  After  the  festivities  had  died  down,  Master  Tarantula  sent  a  message  to  the  Queen  asking  for  a  private  audi-  ence.  Leaning  on  a  stick  and  look-  ing  very  old,  he  made  his  bow  and  explained  his  purpose.  The  stars  had  warned  him  that  it  would  be  a  very  unpropitious  winter,  with  a  number  of  Afrits  about.  He  was  an  old  man,  his  powers  were  failing.  The  last  Afrit  had  almost  got  the  better  of  him,  slipping  between  his  spells.  He  had  managed  to  divert  its  malignancy  to  a  village  west  of  the  forest,  now  in  ashes,  but  he  could  not  hope  to  keep  off  the  next  assault  single-handed.  Would  Her  Majesty  grant  him  a  couple  of  assistants?  They  need  notbe  experts  in  Art  Magic:  he  could  supply  all  that  himself;  all  he  asked  was  that  they  should  be  strong  and  obedient.  And  virgin.  The  least  flaw  in  virginity  would  provoke  the  Afrits  to  fury.  And  here  lay  the  diffi-  culty.  Young  people  are  careless  of  their  virginity;  one  day  they  may  have  it  and  the  next  mislay  it.  What  was  needed  was  a  trustworthy,  an  inexpug-  nable  virginity.  Would  Her  Majesty  lend  him  her  eunuchs?  It  had  been  well  drummed  into  Melior  in  her  girl-  hood  how  passionately  Afrits  feel  about  virginity.  She  handed  over  Ib  and  Rollo  without  demur.  OR  many  vears  they  lived  happily  in  Master  Tarantula's  tower,  play-  ing  three-handed  whist,  learning  a  few  tricks  of  magic,  listening  to  his  conver-  sation,  keeping  off  the  Afrits,  and  be-  coming  almost  as  agnostic  as  he.  Be-  cause  he  respected  nothing,  they  began  to  respect  each  other,  finding  each  oth-  er  likable  instead  of  merely  habitual.  At  the  propitiatory  ceremonies  they  attended  him  as  formerly  they  had  at-  tended  the  Queen.  Sometimes  he  feigned     - weakness  and  leaned  on  them.  In  fact  he  was  uncommonly  strong  and  limber,  which  he  put  down  to  the  fresh  air  and  exercise  of  his  nocturnal  flights.  One  night,  he  failed  in  his  usual  neat  entry  and  made  several  blundering  es-  says  before  he  got  through  the  window.  His  teeth  chattered,  his  clothes  were  wet  through.  When  he  recovered  his  breath  he  asked  for  brandy.  With  his  teeth  knocking  on  the  glass,  he  told  them  he  had  been  badly  mauled  in  a  thunderstorm.  'They  got  him  to  bed  and  heaped  blankets  on  him.  He  was  no  sooner  asleep  than  he  began  to  leap  like  a  fish  in  a  net.  Toward  morning,  he  opened  his  eyes  and  did  not  recognize  them.  Death  was  hearsay  to  them,  and  seeing  him  fall  into  a  quiet  sleep  they  supposed  he  was  recovering,  till  theold  bedmaker  came  with  her  broom  and  bucket,  and  told  them  he  was  dying  and  would  be  gone  by  nightfall.  She  had  been  his  servant  since  his  college  days  and  thought  the  world  of  him.  At  dusk  she  came  again.  He  seemed  to  be  dying  easily  and  contentedly.  &quot;There.  He's  gone,&quot;  she  said,  and  held  a  mir-  ror  to  his  lips.  His  wings  started  out;  he  looked  like  a  dead  crow.  But  such  deathbed  erections  are  not  unheard  of,  " b" said  she.  The  wings  are  folded  back,  and  nothing  said  of  it.  The  new  Astrologer  wanted  no  as-  sistants.  Ib  and  Rollo  resumed  their  former  service.  They  had  been  out  of  court  life  for  so  long  that  they  felt  out  of  date.  New  niceties  of  etiquette  had  been  introduced  and  these,  familiar  to  everyone  else,  left  them  at  a  loss.  With  Master  Tarantula  they  had  got  into  a  way  of  talking  quite  freely,  question-  ing,  contradicting,  saying  whatever  came  into  their  heads.  It  was  difficult  to  discard  this;  they  talked  too  much,  and  laughed,  and  were  thought  im-  pertinent,  or  they  could  find  nothing  to  sav  and  were  thought  stockish.  It  was  held  against  them,  too,  that  they  were  inseparable.  The  ladies  who  had  taken  offense  when  these  human  beings  were  thrust  into  court  society  had  not  forgotten  their  grudge  (the  elfin  memory  is  propor-  tioned  to  elfin  longevity),  and  peti-  tioned  the  Queen  that  Ib  and  Rollo  should  be  included  in  the  next  batch  of  elderly  changelings  to  be  deposited  on  the  Island  of  Repose-a  reef  off  the  Pointe  du  Raz,  covered  in  seaweed,  lashed  with  spray  from  Atlantic  cross-  currents,  a  place  of  no  return.  Bretons  knew  it  as  the  Isle  of  the  Dead,  and  fisherman  reported  hearing  the  howls  of  souls  in  Purgatory  there.  Melior  ob-  jected.  Ib  and  Rollo  were  part  of  Bro-  c\xc3\xa9liande's  precious  heritage  of  4972616en  traditions:  old  and  smelly  they  might  be,  but  they  were  still  her  eunuchs,  and  she  could  not  possibly  appear  on  state  occasions  without  them;  but  she  would  give  them  new  suits.  The  next  state  occasion  was  the  Snuffing  of  the  Winter  Candle,  when  everybody  put  off  furs  and  began  to  carry  fans,  The  weather  was  appalling.  Gales  raged  round  the  castle,  the  forest  clanged  with  the  ice  frozen  onto  trees,  the  servants  could  only  venture  out  on  foot.  In  the  midst  of  all  this  an  Afrit  eluded  the  new  Astrologer,  changed  its  shape  into  a  starving  weasel,  got  into  the  palace  mews  and  killed  all  the  fighting  cocks.  During  the  following  tumult  of  rage,  consternation,  suggestions,  objec-  tions,  counter-suggestions,  the  Chancel-  lor's  daughter  said  to  her  bosom  friend  (she  was  at  the  age  of  bosom  friends),  &quot;Why  don't  they  have  a  eunuch  fight?&quot;  She  had  not  meant  to  be  over-  heard;  but  a  low  voice  catches  every  car.  Her  remark  was  considered  the  height  of  absurdity  or  else  marvellously  witty,  but  within  a  few  days  the  idea  of  a  eunuch  fight  was  being  seriously  discussed,  It  would  be  something  to  bet  on  and  something  to  laugh  at.  Living  with  Master  Tarantula,  Ib  and  Rollo  had  lost  the  knack  of  ob-  serving  and  forming  correct  judg-  ments,  When  Aquilon,  Master  of  the  Werewolves,  affably  appealed  to  them  to  lighten  the  gloom  of  life  without  cocking  by  asmall  set-to  between  themselves,  they  were  flattered,  saw  a  chance  to  win  their  way  back  into  fa-  vor,  said  that  if  they  were  younger,  al-  most  agreed.  They  were  nailed  to  agreement  by  Aquilon's  friends'  assur-  ing  them  that  a  great  deal  of  money  had  been  staked.  The  fight  took  place  in  a  ring  of  cheering  spectators.  As  they  could  not  be  expected  to  fight  to  the  death,  a  referee  was  appointed,  who  would  ring  his  bell  after  a  round  of  five  min-  utes  (no  one  expected  them  to  last  out  longer).  They  had,  of  course,  wit-  nesseda  great  many  public  cockfights,  and  noticed  that  fighting  cocks  aim  at  the  eye.  They  flinched  at  this,  but  buf-  feted  each  other's  face.  When  Rollo  drew  blood  from  Ib's  nose,  there  was  great  applause.  It  swelled  to  a  storm  when  the  flustered  Ib  miscalculated  his  aim  and  hit  Rollo's  eye.  'The  eye  swelled  and  closed.  The  referee  rang  his  bell,  declared  the  fight  over  and  Ib  the  victor.  Congratulating  spectators  swarmed  into  the  ring  and  supervised  the  combatants'  being  revived  with  hot  towels  and  vinegar.  There  is  always  a  charm  about  ama-  teur  efforts:  they  are  at  once  so  silly  and  so  sincere.  Ib's  nose,  Rollo's  black  eye,  " b" the  bruises  that  came  out  on  their  soft  skin  roused  an  almost  genuine  solicitude  in  their  backers.  They  were  given  a  punchball,  bottles  of  liniment,  tonic  pills;  each  was  privately  urged  not  to  clench  his  teeth  in  the  next  fight.  For  somehow-they  did  not  quite  know  how-there  was  going  to  be  another  fight.  It  was  not  such  a  success.  In  their  anxiety  not  to  hurt  each  other's  face  they  repeatedly  hit  below  the  belt.  Therewas  laughter  and  some  booing.  The  referee  declared  the  match  a  draw.  This  peaceable  decision  angered  them.  For  the  first  time  intheir  lives,  they  quarrelled-quarrelled  to  the  quick,  because  they  had  been  humili-  ated.  In  a  desolate  reconciliation  they  vowed  they  would  never  fight  again,  never  betray  the  friendship  which  was  all,  in  a  society  of  flippant,  arbitrary,  alien  beings,  they  could  rely  on.  And  a  couple  of  days  later  each  had  betrayed  it,  for  each  had  been  separately  ap-  proached  and  told  that  the  other  had  agreed  to  a  third  fight-a  fight  to  set-  tle  all,  since  bythen  the  new  cocks  would  be  arriving  from  [REDACTED].  Furi-  ous  with  each  other  for  having  been  tricked,  they  consentedwith  indifference  to  the  proposal  thatfor  this  last  fight  they  should  be  spurred-symbolically,  of  course:  the  spurs  would  be  blunted.  Embarrassed  by  these   toy-sized  weapons  fastened  to  their  heels,  they  walked  stiffly  into  the  ring,  bowed  to  the  spectators,  bowed  to  each  other,  Every  male  in  the  palace-courtiers,  servants,  changelings-had  been  or-  dered  to  attend,  and  it  was  known,  though  not  mentioned,  that  Melior  and     her  ladies  were  in  the  screened  gallery  above,  pressed  together  like  hens  on  a  perch.  The  referee  stepped  out  of  the  ring  and  struck  his  bell.  They  turned  on  each  other  and  began  to  fight.  They  fought  with  the  frenzy  of  the  betrayed;  they  fought  and  would  not  leave  off.  They  tore  out  each  other's  hair,  wrenched  at  each  other's  ears,  set  their  teeth  in  each  other's  flesh  and  worried  it,  kicked  at  each  other's  shins.  The  spurs  had  not  been  blunted.  They  discovered  how  to  use  them,  and  blood  spurted  out.  'The  applause  was  inces-  sant.  Suddenly  it  was  dominated  by  a  frightful  caterwauling  as  the  two  eu-  nuchs  began  to  scream  at  each  other.  Maddened  by  the  sound,  the  spectators  fell  to  fighting  among  themselves,  Rol-  lo's  backers  shouting  defiance  at  Ib's,  Ib's  trying  to  get  at  Rollo's.  So  many  old  scores  were  being  wiped  out,  so  much  dissembled  loathing  gratified,  that  for  some  time  nobody  noticed  that  the  caterwauling  had  ceased.  But  when  they  left  off  fighting  and  glanced  to-  ward  the  center  ofthe  ring,  they  saw  a  man  who  grovelled  and  a  man  who  stood  overhim,  and  thought,  though  they  could  not  be  sure,  that  the  standing  man  was  Rollo  and  the  grovelling  man  Ib,  hamstrung  by  Rollo's  battering  spur.  Fortunately,  the  Moroccan  cocks  ar-  rived  next  day.  They  were  splendid  birds.  Their  proud  strut,  their  eyes  glit-  tering  like  sequins,  ennobled  everyone's  spirits  and  redeemed  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  from  an  inclegant  memory.  A  blackeye  here  or  there  was  ignored;  scratched  faces  were  restored  with  very  becoming  strips  of  blackcourt  plaster.  The  prin-  cipal  Director  of  Piety  explained  that  whatever  had  happened-he  him-  self  had  seen  a  certain  indeco-  rum-was  undoubtedly  the  work  ofthe  same  Afrit  who  had  come  among  them  in  the  disguise  of  a  weasel.  The  Chancellor's  daugh-  ter,  who,  like  a  second  Helen,  had  started  it  all,  was  questioned  before  Melior  by  a  panel  of  La-  dies  of  Honor,  but  exonerated,  as  she  had  only  meant  to  be  help-  ful.  When  she  had  left  the  room,  the  Ladies  of  Honor  turned  to  the  Queen  and  begged  to  renew  their  former  petition,  which  ear-  lier  she  had  graciously  refused.  They  did  not  dispute  the  tradi-  tional  importance  of  her  eunuchs,  butshe  really  could  not  be  at-  tendedby  a  cripple  and  a  stam-  mering  idiot.  Surely  the  time  had  come  when  they  should  be  retired  to  the  Island  of  Repose.  Melior  assented.  The  Ladies  of  Honor  spread  the  news.  Apparently,  the  Afrit  had  not  fin-  ished  his  work.  Aquilon,  using  such  words  as  &quot;shameful&quot;  and  &quot;iniquitous,&quot;  declared  that  Ib  and  Rollo  had  suffered  enough,  and  threatened  to  resign  his  Mastership  of  the  Werewolves  if  they  were  now  deported  to  the  Island  of  Re-  pose.  His  friends  supported  him;  the  changelings  banded  themselves  under  his  leadership,  saying  that  they  had  been  downtrodden  for  too  long  and  were  stolen  property  anyway.  The  Ladies  of  Honor  urged  Melior  to  be  firm,  the  Di-  rectors  of  Piety  begged  her  to  be  pru-  dent,  the  Favorite  took  mandragora.  When  the  Queen  called  an  assembly,  several  of  the  team  of  Wand  Wavers,  bowing,  put  their  hands  behind  them.  The  revolt  spread  to  the  servants,  who  refused  to  fly  and  went  about  their  duties  at  a  leisurely  walking  pace.  This  was  the  last  straw.  The  Ambassador  from  Blockula-a  formalist  from  a  petty  northern  [REDACTED]  who  would  be  delighted  to  report  that  Broc\xc3\xa9liande  was  in  a  state  of  insurrection-was  hour-  ly  expected.  Melior  gave  in.  A  disused  hermitage  was  reroofed  and  simply  fur-  nished,  and  Ib  and  Rollo  installed,  with  a  reliable  groom  of  Aquilon's  to  see  to  their  needs.  There,  not  long  after,  they  ended  their  days,  Ib  surviving  Rollo  by  less  than  a  year.  -Syuvira  TownsEND  WARNER  Abravanel  took  the  phone  from  her,  settled  himself  comfortably  in  a  chair,  put  his  right  ankle  on  his  right  knee,  smiled  as  though  preparing  to  share  a  joke  with  an  old  friend  ...-From  &quot;Something  to  Answer  For,&quot;  by  P.  H.  Newby.  Preferably  an  old  contortionist.  "