 b"THEY  are  building  a  new  wing,  but  nevertheless  it  is  quiet.  On  instructions  from  the  contractor  the  men  work  slowly,  almost  silently.  With  each  board  or  frame  it  is  as  if  a  decision  must  be  made:  shall  we  tighten  this,  or  shall  we  let  it  rest?  The  old  men  with  shirts  wrapped  around  their  heads  inevitably  continue,  although  one  has  the  impression  that  perhaps  some-  day  they  simply  will  not  work  and  in-  stead  lean  on  their  trowels  or  sit  on  the  sacks  of  concrete.  At  the  rate  they  work,  it  is  hard  to  tell  if  they  are  build-  ing  or  tearing  down.  It  is  the  same  with  us,  I  suppose,  when  we  treat  a  dying  patient.  Like  the  old  Iraqi  Jews  who  pour  the  cement,  we,  too,  must  decide  whether  or  not  to  tighten  our  patient's  dying  frame  or  just  to  let  it  dissolve  and  run  away  on  the  light-blue  air.  Blue  is  the  predominant  color  at  Elisha.  It  is  seen  everywhere  out  the  big  windows,from  their  tops  to  their  bottoms,  because  we  are  on  the  summit  of  a  hill-better  to  say  mountain,  al-  though  I  hesitate  to  call  anything  a  mountain  unless  it  is  capped  with  snow,  Most  windows  look  north;  the  ease  of  the  light  is  inescapable;  a  soft  clear  altitude  of  blue  air  flees  from  all  sides.  Ships  at  sea,  like  small  precision  engines  enamelled  in  red  and  orange  and  black,  move  across  a  glass  of  blue.  Pas-  sengers  in  a  German  dirigible  would  have  had  it  no  better  than  patients  here.  It  is  true  they  could  move  from  place  to  place,  but  at  Elisha  we  have  no  vibration-not  even  from  the  construc-  tion.  Except  for  the  souls  that  die  within,  it  is  a  perfect  environment.  It  is  in  this  hospital  that  I  met  my  wife.  On  chill  November  evenings  we  made  tea  in  the  laboratory,  which  over-  looks  the  Hadar;  the  bright  orange  flame  of  a  Bunsen  burner  and  the  tea  in  a  glass  beaker  made  the  dark  cold  and  hissing  respiratory  winds  outside  less  terrible.  I  remember  well  staring  at  a  large  desk  calendar  underneath  a  fluorescent  light,  trying  to  fix  the  time  and  feeling  permanently.  I  did.  It  was  November  15,  1965,  and  it  was  ten  o'clock.  As  I  have  said,  the  wind  was  whistling  outside  and  it  was  dark  and  we  were  in  love.  And  the  clear  light  and  sounds  nearly  matched  our  excite-  ment.  We  spoke  of  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED],  and  we  have  been  to  those  places  and  we  have  been  back.  We  had  then  grave  aspirations,  as  doctors  might.  We  have  achieved  some  of  them,  others  have  been  whittled  away  by  the  world.  We  have  not  been  bent  by  great  events  so  that  we  are  something  other  than  ourselves,  with  an  enemy  within.  On  the  contrary,  we  have  been  lucky.  I  have  been  in  war  but  not  in  the  thick  of  it.  I  have  been  in  upheaval  but  not  in  thethick  of  it.  I  have  never  been  concerned  with  gov-  ernments,  one  way  or  another,  because  one  way  or  another  they  have  never  been  much  concerned  with  me.  HE  first  of  this  September  marked  the  opening  of  school.  Even  I  shared  the  excitement  of  the  new  year.  As  I  walked  to  the  hospital  I  passed  a  high  school,  the  courtyard  of  which  was  jammed  with  noisy  foolish  students  from  whom-contrary  to  the  popular  assumption-one  should  not  learn  but  rather  take  revival.  A  beautiful  young  girl  reminded  me  of  my  wife  and  of  the  autumn  when  we  met.  The  trees  were  rustling  and  it  was  cool  in  the  shade,  and  I  left  as  she  was  blushing  because  I  had  stared  intently.  I  was  in  a  good  mood;  it  was  my  day  in  the  month  solely  for  the  medical  library,  and  there  is  no  better  work  than  to  sit  there  and  read.  But  on  my  way  upstairs  I  wanted  to  stop  in  at  X-ray,  so  I  began  walking  down  the  corridor,  where  windows  of  bright  blue  are  one  wall  and  silver  doors  and  yel-  low  benches  are  the  other.  Outside  the  operating  rooms  was  a  young  man  of  about  twenty-five  and  his  girl  child.  He  was  tall  and  slim,  with  dark  hair  and  very  dark  skin.  Not  strangely-it  was,  after  all,  at  Elisha  above  the  sea  and  hills-he  was  wearing  a  bright  and  fine  blue  shirt.  His  daughter,  a  child  like  many  I  have  seen,  was  tiny  and  beautiful.  She  had  grown  out  of  in-  fancy,  but  onehad  to  look  twice  to  make  certain.  Like  her  father  she  had  dark  hair  and  dark  skin.  I  judged  that  they  had  been  at  the  beach  in  August,  for  she  was  almost  a  chocolate  color,  the  whites  of  her  eyes  and  the  loose  white  gown  in  which  she  was  enwrapped  contrasting  to  make  a  luminescence.  I  remembered  this  child.  I  had  heard  that  she  was  very  sick  and  did  not  have  much  chance  to  live.  I  had  not  given  it  thought.  It  would  be  too  hard  to  give  thought  to  such  things  all  the  time.  She  had  received  anesthesia  and  was  busy  losing  consciousness,  per-  haps  for  the  last  time,  while  her  father  held  her  in  his  arms,  rocked  her,  put  her  little  head  next  to  his  face,  and  gathered  in  her  legs.  He  was  worried  that  perhaps  the  anesthesia  was  not  working,  and  as  I  was  passing  he  looked  at  me.  &quot;She  is  falling  asleep?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  can  see  that  it  won't  be  long.&quot;  I  put  my  hands  in  my  pockets  and  stood  as  if  to  talk,  for  there  was  no  one  else  there  and  I  was  almost  sure  of  the  outcome.  He  held  her  very  closely-I  have  never  seen  a  man  as  tender  with  a  child-until  she  was  fast  asleep  and  a  gowned  and  masked  operating-room  nurse  came  through  swinging  doors  to  take  the  child  and  carry  her  within.  Nothing  could  be  said,  so  I  said,  &quot;You  are  a  new  immigrant?,&quot;  since  it  was  evident  from  his  speech.  Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;From  where?,  also  evident.  &quot;From  [REDACTED]-Kiev,&quot;  he  replied,  a  little  more  at  ease.  &quot;I  was  to  be  a  curator  of  arts  at  the  museum,  and  then  ...&quot;  He  raised  his  arms  and  smiled.  &quot;And  then  .  ..&quot;  &quot;And  what  do  youdo  here?&quot;  &quot;I  work  as  an  artist  commercial,  but  soon  I  am  going  to  study  at  the  uni-  versity,  when  my  wife  comes.  She  is  still  in  Kiev.&quot;  I  was  reluctant  to  leave  him  alone.  At  such  times  quiet  institutions  are  murderous,  but  I  had  to  do  my  read-  ing.  &quot;Look,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;these  things  can  be  difficult.  If  there  is  anything  I  can  do  to  help,  anything  at  all  for  whatever  reason  ...  If  you  need  something,  or  just  to  talk-you  know?  I  will  be  in  the  library,  upstairs,&quot;  and  I  pointed.  I  touched  him  on  the  shoulder  and  left  quickly.  I  spent  that  day  in  the  library.  Later  in  the  evening  when  it  was  dark,  I  walked  bleary-eyed  past  the  empty  yel-  low  bench  where  he  had  been  sitting.  His  lighter  and  cigarettes  were  there.  I  dared  not  learn  the  outcome.  A  warm  light  met  the  dark  blue  ofthe  win-  dows,  then  almost  black,  and  I  left  Elisha  Hospital,  thinking  of  my  wife  and  sons  and  how  history  had  left  me  in  peace.  A  dark  September  rain  began  to  fall,  as  one  seldom  sees  it  fall  in  Haifa."