 A  S  H  O  R  T  H  I  S  T  O  R  Y  O  F  T  H  E  &quot;  S  P  I  T  B  A  L  L  &quot;   Despite  the  recent  hubbub  over  the  possible  use  of  illicit  pitches     Honest  J  ohn  displays  dry  ball  Honesr  Joan's  SrRarEoy  J.  P.  (Honest  John)  Truckhauser  achieved  a  fine  strike-out  record  by  the  simple  method  of  assuring  opposing  batters  that  everything  was  on  the  up-and-up.  With  the  count  at  three  and  two,  Truckhauser  would  call  for  a  bath  towel,  and  conspicuously  dry  off  the  ball.  He  would  then  walk  down  to  the  batter  and  show  him  the  ball.  &quot;So  4ry,&quot;  Truckhauser  would  murmur.  &quot;Like  dust.&quot;  He  would  offer  it  to  the  batter  for  examination;  then  he  would  return  to  the  mound  and  hold  the  ball  in  the  air,  calling,  &quot;Anybody  want  to  see  a  really  dry  ball?  I  never  seen  anything  so  dry!  I  think  it's  gonna  fall  apart!&quot;  When  the  pitch  came,  thebatter  invariably  struck  out.  in  major-league  baseball,  the  spitball  is  as  American  as  apple  pie.  The  sneaky  application  of  foreign  substances  to  the  ball  is  a  tradi-  tion  that  goes  back  to  the  time  of  Abner  Doubleday  himself.  SrapE's  ExPULsION  One  of  the  most  blatant  users  of  the  loaded  ball  was  Ernest  (Slimy)  Slade,  of  the  Newburyport  Falcons.  Slade  had  a  no-  hitter  going  in  August,  1914,  when,  at  the  top  ofthe  eighth,  the  suspicious  ump  &quot;called  in&quot;  the  ball.  A  careful  examination  of  the  ball  revealed:  4  oz.  juice-Red  Man  Chewing  Tobacco  2  ths.  Pinaud's  Hair  Dressing-lilac  1  jigger  Southern  Comfort  4  sticks  Wrigley's  Spearmint  8  grams  French-fried  potatoes  A  mixture  of  sand,  gravel,  ketchup,  mustard,  relish,  and  shale     Slade  was  fined  twenty-five  dollars,  and  sent  to  Needham.  " b"   Lucius  (Lefty)  Lundgren,  1878  (X  marks  the  applesauce)  BACK  TO  YESTERYEAR  Lucius  (Lefty)  Lundgren,  who  pitched  in  the  eighteen-seventies,  is  be-  lieved  to  be  the  first  man  caught  &quot;put-  ting  something  on  the  ball.&quot;  Lundgren  concealed  a  dollopof  applesauce  in  his  beard,  then  touched  the  ball  to  his  chin  thoughtfully  before  each  pitch,  and  struck  out  four  men  in  a  row  each  inning.  (It  used  to  be  four.)     37     Left  to  right:  popcorn,  hat,  Commissioner,  baseball  (note  arrow),  W  hite  Owls  Txr  Commissioner  Prron  This  sensational  pitch  was  developed  by  Skinny  Ruger  in  1924.  It  started  out  as  a  slow  curve,  hopped  twice,  then  veered  off  just  short  of  the  plate,  sailed  over  the  dugout  to  the  Baseball  Commissioner's  box,  and  came  to  rest  in  the  breast  pocket  of  the  Commissioner,  right  next  to  the  White  Owls.  The  Commissioner  announced  that  a  ruling  on  the  unusual  pitch  would  be  made  at  some  future  time.     Crowd  leaving  ballpark  as  Gerhardt  begins  windup  GErnarpt's  Nausea  BALL  To  this  day,  no  one  knows  precisely  what  it  was  that  Dolph  Gerhardt  put  on  his  special  pitch;  to  the  very  end,  Gerhardt  protested  thatthe  ball  was  clean,  he  was  being  harassed,  etc.  Yet  the  effect  of  Gerhardt's  so-called  &quot;nausea  ball&quot;  was  extraordinary.  Batters  could  not  hit  it,  and  most  catchers  refused  to  try  to  catch  it.  The  crowd  at  the  ball-  park  sensed  immediately  when  Gerhardt  was  about  to  throw  his  special  ball,  and  would  begin  to  leave  the  stands  as  quickly  as  possible.  Those  spectators  unable  to  depart  prior  to  Gerhardt's  windup  were  invariably  assailed  with  throbbing  headaches,  vomiting,  dizziness,  double  vision,  and  a  subsequent  queasy  lassitude  that  took  the  form  of  total  apathy     if  not  outright  hostility-toward  organized  baseball.  -James  STEVENSON  "