MARTA  AND  LENI  HOSPITAL  stands  on  a  rise  of  ground  at  the  edge  of  the  small  city  of  Kitzenbach,  in  southern  Austria.  The  central  building  faces  away  from  the  city  and  looks  across  a  river  and  a  valley  of  wheat  fields,  dotted,  in  season,  with  poppies  and  cornflowers,  to  an  antique  village.  Behind  the  village  is  a  line  of  moun-  tains,  dark  with  forests.  Now,  toward  noon  of  a  day  in  summer,  a  room  on  the  hospital's  sixth  floor  is  being  cleaned  by  two  women  under  the  lofty  super-  vision  of  a  nurse's  aide.  Her  name  is  [REDACTED]  Stricker-Frau  [REDACTED],  in  the  local  form  of  address.  She  is  tanned  and  stocky.  She  wears  a  gray  uniform.  Her  movements  are  quick.  Her  hair,  once  red,  is  now  faded,  and  is  wound  in  a  braided  circlet.  This  cleaning  is  only  of  a  daily  sort;  the  patient  is  present.  Twice  a  week,  he  is  wheeled  to  another  room  and  Frau  [REDACTED]'s  women  are  put  to  doing  a  truly  awe-  some  job,  but  the  difference  in  the  outcome  is  rarely  apparent.  The  room  gleams  at  all  times.  Frau  [REDACTED]  makes  much  of  direct-  ing  the  two  women.  They  are  ob-  sequious,  clearly  poor  in  spirit  and  in  fact.  Frau  [REDACTED]  scrutinizes  corners,  draws  afinger  along  the  undersides  of  shelves,  and  glances  frequently  at  the  patient,  whom  she  wants  to  impress  with  her  capacity  for  command.  He  is  a  middle-aged  556e6974656420537461746573n  traveller-  Herr  Jamison,  Gregory  Jamison-  who  was  brought  to  the  hospital  fortnight  since  at  two  in  the  morning,  after  suffering  an  internal  hemorrhage  in  a  nearby  inn.  He  had  merely  stopped  off  there  while  passing  through,  driv-  ing  to  4974616c79.  He  has  no  friends  or  rela-  tives  nearer  than  those  he  may  have  in  [REDACTED],  and  the  hospital  staff  has  taken  a  consuming  interest  in  him-  inquisitive,  tending  toward  peeping,  but  full  of  kindness.  Sometimes,  when  Frau  [REDACTED]  is  alone  with  him,  having  brought  him  his  tea  or  buttermilk,  she  will  bustle  about  the  room  for  a  bit  and  try  to  talk  to  him,  try  to  cheerhim.  An  eld-  erly  patient  down  the  hall  speaks  a  rusty  English,  and  she  squeezes  oc-  casional  phrases  out  of  him  and  offers  them  to  Herr  Jamison.  &quot;How-do--  you-doo?&quot;  she  will  demand  meas-  uredly,  entering  the  room  with  a  rush  and  planting  herself  alongside  the  bed  before  she  speaks.  &quot;'Today  have  we  gutes  W  etter.&quot;  But  now  she  is  all  busi-  ness,  all  authority,  until,  abruptly,  the  atmosphere  changes.  The  cause  is  no  more  than  the  quiet  entrance  ofa  tiny  nurse  in  blue-a  fair-haired  young  woman  with  silver-  rimmed  glasses  and  a  delicate,  pointed  face.  She  has  come  to  say  that  the  Herr  Professor,  the  hospital's  Chief  of  Staff,  is  making  visits  and  will  soon  arrive.  She  says  thisin  a  low,  almost  apolo-  getic  tone.  Frau  [REDACTED]  is  silent.  She  nods.  The  cleaners  gather  their  cloths  and  basins  and  leave,  seeming  almost  to  slink.  And  the  two  women  who  are  left  look  at  one  another,  and  each  seems  about  to  speak,  though  neither  does.  Then  Frau  [REDACTED],  not  trumpeting  to  Herr  Jamison  her  usual  &quot;Auf  Wieder-  sehen,  mein  Freund!,&quot;  leaves  almost  furtively  herself,  and  the  nurse  stands  looking  after  her  with  a  small  troubled  frown.  The  nurse  is  known  as  Sister  Leni-  Helene.  She  is  in  charge  of  the  floor.  Now  she  goes  to  her  small  office  near  the  hall  desk,  where  she  gets  a  clip-  board;  when  the  Chief  comes  to  her  section,  she  must  make  notes.  And  soon  he  appears  with  his  entourage-the  resident,  a  pair  of  young  internes,  and  Sister  Erna,  the  head  nurse  of  the  wing,  the  Oberschwester.  Leni  falls  in  behind  them,  and  all  of  them  go  into  the  556e6974656420537461746573n's  room.  The  Chief  shakes  hands  withhim,  glances  at  his  chart,  and  issues  a  few  instructions,  but  the  visit  is  largely  ceremonial.  Soon  it  is  over,  and  the  cleaning  women  return,  but  Frau  [REDACTED]  is  not  with  them.  She  is  waiting-hiding-around  a  corner  of  the  hall.  And  when  the  Chief  has  left  the  floor  and  Sister  Leni  replaces  her  clipboard,  Frau  [REDACTED]  darts  out  and  contrives  to  pass  the  office  door  while  Leni  is  there.  Frau  [REDACTED]  stops.  The}  smile.  Uncertain  smiles,  though  warm-reaching,  somehow.  Pleadmg.  &quot;Du  kommst  nach  Hause  am  Sonntag,  Leni?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asks.  &quot;Nein,  Tante,&quot;  kann  nicht.&quot;     Leni  says.  &quot;Ich  ENI  looks  even  younger  than  she  is,  being  so  slight.  But  she  is  only  twenty-five.  She  lives  now  in  the  hos-  pital's  residence  house.  She  is  ambitious  and  has  learned  that  if  she  is  at  hand  she  is  likely  to  be  called  on  in  case  of  sudden  need.  At  least  she  tells  herself  that  this  is  one  reason  she  stays  there,  and  indeed  she  is  advancing  nicely  in     her  work.  But  until  recently,  except  for  her  time  in  training,  she  lived  with  [REDACTED]  in  the  old  village  across  the  valley.  When  Leni  was  born,  the  war  was  not  long  over,  the  province  was  oc-  cupied  by  the  British,  and  food  was  still  scarce.  Leni's  mother  died  and  her  father,  a  rough  man  and  a  drinker  but  a  good  worker,  went  offto  [REDACTED],  leaving  her  with  [REDACTED],  his  elder  sister.  He  had  heard  reports  that  la-  borers  were  needed  for  the  rebuilding  of  the  cities  Money  came  from  him  now  and  then,  but  not  for  long.  He  was  killedin  the  collapse  ofa  bombed-  out  building.  And  [REDACTED]  and  Leni-  now  [REDACTED]'s  to  keep-were  left  alone.  The  time  was  hard  but  sweet.  Be-  fore  the  war,  [REDACTED]  had  been  a  cham-  bermaid  and  sometime  nursemaid  in  the  huge  house  of  the  Haider  family,  who,  since  the  days  when  Kitzenbach  itself  was  a  sleepy  little  town,  had  been  among  its  ranking  squires.  But  the  present  family  was  scattered:  the  son,  a  doctor,  was  in  [REDACTED];  the  daughter,  married  and  rich,  lived  in  [REDACTED].  The  house  was  requisitioned  in  part  by  the  British,  in  part  by  the  gov-  ernment  to  ease  a  housing  shortage.  Soldiers  and  strangers-enforced  lodg-  ers-lurked  in  its  rooms  and  stalked  its  parquet  floors.  Only  a  small  apart-  ment  was  left  for  old  Herr  Haider  and  his  wife,  who  therefore  spent  most  of  their  time  in  their  other  house,  in  Tyrol.  So  [REDACTED]  pieced  out  by  herself,  quite  happily.  She  worked  at  odd  jobs,  chief-  ly  for  the  British  soldiers.  Sometimes  she  left  the  baby  with  a  neighbor,but  as  a  rule  she  brought  laundry  home  and  did  it  atnight,  and  so  could  spend  much  of  Leni's  waking  time  looking  after  her.  She  carried  her  every-  where--perambulators  were  all  but  un-  known  in  the  village-talking  to  her  in  confidence  or  singing  her  the  lusty  songs  of  the  countryside.  She  wholly  believed  that  the  baby  understood  her,  even  if  not  yet  able  to  reply  or  to  join  in.  When  the  weather  grew  cool,  Mar-  ta  swaddled  her  in  blankets  until  she  resembled  a  miniature  bolster  topped  by  a  tiny  face,  and  bore  her  off  to  the  lower  slopes  of  the  mountains.  Late  field  flowers  grew  there,  and  the  air  was  redolent  with  pine,  which  [REDACTED]  regarded  as  strengthening  to  the  lungs.  On  Sundays,  they  visited  the  graves  of  Leni's  mother  and  [REDACTED]'s  parents  and  sundry  departed  friends,  And  on  winter  evenings,  when  her  work  al-  lowed,  [REDACTED]  sat  near  the  green  tile  stove  that  heated  their  small  house,  the  child  on  her  lap,  and  sang  lullabies  and  was  grateful  to  the  Lord  Jesus,  whose  portrait,  with  red  and  gold  rays  " b"emanating  from  a  visible  heart,  hung,  as  it  had  all  her  life,  above  her  bed.  CLOSE  by  the  house  was  a  free  kin-  dergarten  run  by  nuns  for  poor  children  and  orphans.  There  were  num-  bers  of  both  in  the  neighborhood.  When  Leni  was  four,  [REDACTED]  took  her  there,  abandoning  her  with  deep  reluc-  tance  for  several  hours  a  day.  But  she  herself  had  got  work  as  a  maid  at  the  small  hospital  across  the  valley,  and  the  pay  was  steady,  though  minimal,  so  times  were  less  hard,  if  less  joyous.  And  there  were  still  the  evenings,  and  Sun-  days  after  Mass  and  the  cemetery.  On  Sunday,  when  the  day  was  warm,  [REDACTED]  prepared  abasket,  and  she  and   Leni  would  go  through  the  wheat  to  the  riverbank  and  picnic  there-black  bread,  sometimes  a  hard  sausage,  and  tomatoes  and  white  turnips  from  their  tiny  garden,  the  turnips  peeled  and  quartered  with  [REDACTED]'s  pocketknife  and  eaten  like  apples.  Goat's  milk  for  Leni,  who  was  small  for  herage  and  deemed  frail,  and  often  also  a  sip  of  sustaining  beer  from  [REDACTED]'s  flagon.  And  up  the  slope  across  from  them  was  the  hospi-  tal,  which,  in  a  half-dozen  years,  would  begin  a  great  expansion.  At  the  end  of  the  outing,  they  would  pick  poppies  and  daisies  in  the  wheat  fields,  making  four  neat  bouquets  with  a  sprig  of  wheat  in  each,  and  set  them  in  the  four  rooms  of  the  house,  for  luck  and  Gemifitlichkeit.  E  e  (ees  x  ,,  Aa  \xe2\x80\x9cA     When  Leni  was  six,  she  went  to  the  Volksschule  in  the  village,  and  it  ap-  peared  to  her  that  she  was  different  from  the  other  children.  For  one  thing,  they  had  parents.  They  had  fathers.  (She  did  not  like  to  press  or  question  [REDACTED]  on  this  point.  It  was  accepted  between  them  that  Leni  had  parents,  but  in  Heaven.)  A  faint  postwar  pros-  perity  had  set  in.  Her  companions'  family  excursions  led  them  farther  away  than  the  riverbank-often  across  into  Kitzenbach,  where  Leni  had  been  only  once  or  twice  in  her  life.  The  girls'  dresses  were  unlike  her  own.  Most  of  them  had  been  bought,  where-  as  [REDACTED]  made  Leni's  dresses.  They  hung  straight  and  true,  but  a  little  " b" sacklike,  and  she  was  prone  to  think  of  this  with  some  despair  while  walking  to  and  from  school  or  lying  awake.  But  one  day,  toward  her  seventh  birth-  day,  she  remembered  that  there  was  a  bag  of  scraps  and  strips  of  cloth  be-  neath  the  eaves.  [REDACTED]  saved  what  might  come  handy.  SoLeni  dug  out  a  few  colorful  pieces  of  suitable  length,  and  after  that  she  would  twist  one  of  them  into  a  loose  sash  and  put  it  around  her  waist  on  the  way  to  school,  and-  unable  by  any  stretch  to  risk  offending  [REDACTED]-hide  it  in  her  book  bag  on  her  way  home.  This  did  not  make  her  en-  tirely  comparable  to  her  schoolmates,  but  it  greatly  eased  her  thoughts.  HE  year  that  Leni  was  eight,  the  Occupation  ended,  the  govern-  ment's  grip  on  living  space  was  light-  ened,  and,  Dr.  Peter  Haider,  in  Vien-  na,  having  influence,  thebig  house  of  his  family  was  fully  returned  to  them.  It  was  a  time  of  rejoicing  and  music.  [REDACTED]  was  brought  from  the  hospital  to  work  at  the  refurbishing,  and  stayed  on  as  day  maid.  Herr  Haider  and  &quot;die  Gnadige,&quot;  his  wife,  old  and  ceremoni-  ous,  came  back  from  Tyrol,  and  their  elegant  daughter  visited  briefly  from  [REDACTED].  The  Doctor  came  withboxes  of  records  and  a  phonograph  of  recent  design.  The  main  wing  was  filled  with  music  when  he  was  there.  And  Leni,  brought  on  Saturdays  to  help  [REDACTED]  with  minor  tasks  (and  to  be  near  her),  fell  in  love  with  him.  He  was  forty,  dark  and  erect  and  used  to  authority,  but  fond  of  [REDACTED],  who  had  taken  care  of  him  as  a  child  and  now  was  delighted  to  see  her  small  charge-her  Bubi-in  charge  himself.  He  grew  fond,  also,  of  her  niece,  who  stayed  at  his  heels  when  possible  but  ran  away  when  teased.  Leni  had  never  seen  such  people  or  such  a  place.  Gradually,  it  shone,  The  floors,  repaired  in  the  aftermath  of  the  soldiers'  boots  and  cigarette  burns,  were  polished  with  wax.  Rugs  of  many  colors  and  intricate  design  came  from  some  hiding  place  and  lay  scattered  negligently,  and  yet  with  order,  on  the  parquet.  Linens,  tied  by  ribbons  in  neat  bundles,  were  stacked  in  fragrant  cabi-  nets.  Water  ran  interestingly  in  the  kitchen  and  bathrooms.  And  all  of  this  was  bathed  in  music-Mozart  and  Schubert-with  the  Doctor,  refulgent  himself,  at  its  core.  She  hoped  he  would  stay  forever,  and  once,  when  he  was  talking  to  his  sister,  Leni  gathered  that-someday,  at  least-he  might.  He  spoke  of  the  family's  giving  some  of  their  landnext  to  the  hospital  if  the  government  would  support  a  medical     dULY  23.  197  3  complex  there.  His  sister  agreed.  Leni  did  not  precisely  follow;  they  were  talking  of  owner-  ship  and  wills  and  civic  duty.  But  when  he  said  that  he  hoped  to  leave  [REDACTED]  and  work  in  that  new  place,  she  understood  and  was  pleased,  though  the  event  seemed  regret-  tably  far  in  the  future.  The  Doctor  and  his  music  went  back  to  [REDACTED]  at  last.  School  began.  Life,  except  on  the  still  luminous  Sat-  urdays,  went  on  as  it  always  had.  [REDACTED]  went  each  day  to  the  house,  as  she  had  to  the  hospital.  Picnics  were  held  on  warm  Sundays.  And  then,  late  in  the  spring  that  Leni  was  eleven,  Herr  Haider  died.  [REDACTED]  and  Leni  went  to  his  funeral,  which  was  stately.  They  sat  in  the  rear  of  the  chapel,  and  walked  well  back  in  the  pro-  cession.  It  wound  its  way  to  a  part  of  the  cemetery  that  Leni  did  not  know,  and  now  looked  at  with  wonder,  The  graves  she  had  visited  were  across  a  dusty  road  in  a  dusty  sec-  tion.  Here,  sprinklers  were  playing  and  the  grass  was  green  and  thick;  there,  there  wasno  water  but  the  rain.  In  summer,  the  grass  grew  rank  or  it  withered.  [REDACTED]  trimmed  it  for  her  peo-  ple  when  it  grew.  In  that  place,the  graves  were  mounds  in  rows,  marked  by  modest  stones  or  none.  Here,  each  family  had  its  fenced  and  gravelled  plot  with  monumental  headstones  and  vases  of  flowers.  Herr  Haider  was  lowered  to  his  rest,  the  mourners  dis-  persed,  and  [REDACTED]  paused  long  enough  to  repeat  the  prayer  she  always  said  for  each  one  on  the  other  side.  Leni  joined  her,starting  a  little  late.  UMMER,  and  die  Gnidige,  alone  now  in  her  house  except  for  inter-  mittent  servants-the  cook,  the  char,  and  [REDACTED]-after  a  marriage  of  fifty  years,  grew  ill,  and  her  mind  strayed.  The  Herr  Doktor  Peter  came  from  [REDACTED]  and  said  that  she  must  have  an  attendant  living  in  the  house.  She  would  tolerate  no  one  but  [REDACTED].  The  Doctor  was  willing;  [REDACTED]  could  func-  tion  well  enough  as  a  practical  nurse.  And  since  she  couldnot  leave  a  child  of     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  eleven,  she  was  allowed  to  bring  Leni  with  her.  The  child  was  entranced,  and  [REDACTED]  was  as  deeply  proud  as  if  the  wonders  of  the  house  had  been  hers  to  give  her.  Die  Gnidige  stayed  in  her  quarters  most  of  the  time,  [REDACTED]'s  work  was  light,  and  she  and  Leni  had  the  house  in  large  part  to  themselves.  They  played  small  pranks  on  each  other.  [REDACTED]  taught  Leni  to  cross-stitch,  and  in  idle  moments  they  sat  together  stitching  blue  figures  into  squares  of  white  linen,  later  to  be  hung  on  their  own  kitchen  wall.  Peasant  scenes,  mostly,  and  frolicking  boys  and  girls.  Meanwhile,  the  two  of  them  sang  sad  songs  oflove  and  valor-softly,  as  a  rule,  though  [REDACTED]  sometimes  forgot  herself  as  emotion  rose,.  And  this  year  when  they  picnicked  it  was  in  the  Platzl-the  rustic  pagoda  draped  with  sweet-pea  vines-in  thepine  grove  back  of  the  house.  The  fare  was  dain-  tier  than  thatof  the  riverbank.  Leni  at  once  discovered  a  taste  for  white  bread  and  thin-sliced  Westphalian  ham,  and  for  apricots  and  plums  picked  from  the  trees  of  the  small,  well-tended  or-  chard.  [REDACTED],  on  the  whole,  stayed  with  her  black  bread  and  sausage.  As  Leni's  first  awe  vanished,  she  grew  noble.  She  wandered  the  house  by  herself,  seeming  to  float,  and  the  movements  of  her  hands  were  gently  ornate,  when  she  remembered  to  di-  rect  them.  She  would  walk  down  the  large  central  staircase  with  grace,  run  back  up,  and  descend  again.  All  of  this  delighted  [REDACTED],  who  was  vain  of  Leni's  expansion  into  surroundings  that-though  she  could  hardly  expect  to  attain  the  likes  of  them-so  clearly  became  her.  &quot;Die  kleine  Dame!&quot;  [REDACTED]  would  say,  clasping  her  own  powerful  hands  in  admiration.  And  it  seemed  to  Leni  that  the  house,  and  a  world  outside  it  yet  close-  ly  joined-the  world  of  the  songs  and  of  the  Herr  Doktor-had  been  pre-  sented  to  her  outright  by  her  aunt.  Die  Gnidige,  emergingfrom  time  to  time,  alwaysgave  Leni  a  few  coins,  and  when  she  had  saved  enough  of  them  she  went  to  a  nearby  embroidery  shop  and  bought  a  motto,  ready  for  stitch-  ing,  on  a  piece  of  heavy  linen  as  long  as  a  bed.  &quot;Der  Dich  behiitet,  schliift  micht,&quot;  the  motto  said-&quot;The  One  who  watches  over  thee  does  not  sleep.&quot;  Leni  intended  it  as  a  gift  of  love  for  [REDACTED].  She  worked  in  secret  in  the  Platzl,  bees  humming  in  the  vines,  while  [REDACTED]  was  busy  indoors.  The  motto,  when  done,  was  framed  by  roses  shading  from  pink  to  deep  red.  The  words  were  in  two  tones  of  blue,  and  the  background  was  pale  green.  The  work  was  meant  to  be  hung  on  the  wall  above  [REDACTED]'s  bed,  and  Leni  hoped  it  might  displace  the  Lord,  whose  heart  had  begun  to  make  her  obscurely  uncomfortable,  Y  fall,  die  Gniadige  needed  a  trained  nurse,  [REDACTED]  and  Leni  went  home  to  the  village,  and  [REDACTED]  returned  to  the  hospital.  There,  at  the  Herr  Doktor's  request,  she  was  taught  the  duties  ofa  nurse's  aide,  a  solid  advancement  promised  her  when  the  new  complex  should  be  opened.  Build-  ing  had  already  begun  there.  And  the  next  year,  when  Leni  was  twelve,  her  own  life  widened  once  more,  for  now  she  went  to  the  Biirgerschule  in  Kitzen-  bach.  [REDACTED]  bought  her  a  second-hand  bicycle,  and  she  was  able  to  pedal  through  the  miraculous  life  of  the  city,  along  streets  strident  with  autos  and  motor  scooters,  twice  a  day,  She  passed  the  marketplace,  a  theatre,  a  travel  bureau  with  bright  window  posters,  as  well  as  Maria  Theresia  enthroned  on  a  marble  pedestal  in  the  central  square.  Leni  ate  her  noontime  sandwich  near  the  fountains  of  the  Schillerpark,  along  with  shopgirls  in  stylish  dresses  and  self-possessed  young  men.  She.  made  few  friends;  the  trip  home  was  long,  and  she  was  shy  and  studious.  And  she  began  to  stop  each  day  before  a  smil-  ing,  rain-faded,  blue-clad  Virgin  in  a  niche  behind  an  ancient  church.  The  statue  was  all  but  hidden-neglected-  but  the  Virgin  was  brave  and  serene.  Leni  adopted  her,  and  sometimes  brief-  ly  prayed  there.  She  prayed  dutifully  for  the  well-being  of  [REDACTED]  and  her-  self,  and  then,  with  some  guilt,  she  prayed  that&quot;  somehow,  sometime,  she  might  by  chance  come  to  live  in  the  city.  Afterward,  she  largely  cancelled  the  request.  &quot;Die  Tante  braucht  mich&quot;     Y  (&quot;My  aunt  needs  me&quot;),  she  told  the  understanding  Virgin.  Two  years  later,  after  delays,  the  new  hospital  was  opened.  The  Doctor,  no  longer  an  object  of  languishment  but  still  an  idol,  took  [REDACTED],  now  a  nurse's  aide,  and  Leni  through  the  tiled,  antiseptic  corridors  and  glittering  surgeries.  And  for  the  first  time  Leni  saw  herself  enter  a  new  but  possible  world.  She  decided  to  become  a  nurse.  She  would  ask  help  of  the  Virgin.  She  would  ask  it,  if  need  be,  if  she  dared--  and  she  was  prepared  to  dare-of  the  Herr  Doktor.  At  the  moment,  he  was  showing  them  the  laboratories.  He  said,  with  pride  and  pleasure,  that  he  was  coming  there  as  chief  hematologist  in  charge  of  one  of  them.  &quot;Mein  Gott,  Bubi!&quot;  [REDACTED]  cried,  exultant  for  her  little  boy  and  for  herself,  patting  his  back  with  a  stroke  that  lightly  stag-  gered  him.  Then  she  looked  alarmed  and  crestfallen,  while  Leni  both  winced  and  ached  for  her,  though  the  Doctor,  to  Leni's  surprise,  only  laughed  and  put  an  arm  around  [REDACTED]'s  shoulders.  For  a  few  days,  Leni  kept  her  vision  to  herself.  She  was  afraid  that  to  speak  of  it  even  to  the  statue  would  be  to  risk  losing  it.  But  she  was  too  full  of  it  to  hold  it  in  her  very  long,  and,  aside  from  the  statue,  she  had  only  [REDACTED].  So,  on  a  Sunday  too  chilly  for  the  riverbank  but  heady  and  hope-  ful  in  the  pinewoods,  she  told  her  of  it.  And  [REDACTED]  stopped  still  and  slowly  shook  her  head.  The  training  would  be  far  beyond  their  means,  she  said,  not  adding  that  such  aspirations  might  also  be  somewhat  high-flown.  They  stood  looking  at  each  other  in  silence;  then  Leni-who  had  given  no  thought  at  all  to  practicality-begged  [REDACTED]  at  least  to  ask  the  Herr  Doktor  what  be-  coming  a  nurse  entailed.  She  would  " b"30  work  and  save,  she  said.  She  would  have  five  years-six  years.  And  [REDACTED],  her  heart  unaccountably  sinking,  prom-  ised,  being  unable  not  to.  The  Doctor  was  quite  sanguine.  He  thought  that  Leni  could  make  an  ex-  cellent  nurse.  The  hospital  would  soon  be  giving  medical  and  nursing  scholar-  ships  in  [REDACTED]  to  young  people  who  would  return  for  a  certain  term.  He  was  sure  that  Leni  could  have  one  when  the  time  came.  It  would  not  take  care  of  everything,  but  it  would  cover  a  great  deal.  So  [REDACTED],  her  spirits  rising-  more  reasonably,  it  seemed  to  her,  than  they  had  fallen-now  vowed  to  Leni  that  she,  too,  would  save  to  help  her.  [REDACTED]  was  happy.  Her  work  gave  her  daily  joy.  The  time  of  separation  was  still  ahead  and,  after  all,  it  would  end.  The  savings  grew.  At  first,  they  were  hidden  in  [REDACTED]'s  room  (where  the  Lord  now  had  a  somewhat  higher  position  on  the  wall,  with  the  motto  unrolled  beneath  Him).  But  Leni  had  learned  that  banks  paid  interest,  so  the  money  went  there,in  time,  over  Mar-  ta's  misgivings.  At  the  hospital  (where  Leni  worked  as  a  file  clerk  during  holidays),  Frau  [REDACTED]  became  a  favorite  with  most  of  the  nurses.  Her  gusto  delighted  those  whom  it  did  not  annoy.  She  was  re-  spectful;  she  knew  her  place  with  them,  as  they  knew  theirs  with  the  Ober-  schwester  and,  beyond,  the  doctors  and  the  Chief.  But  &quot;Ja,  Schwester  Anna!,&quot;  &quot;Freilich,  Schwester  Hilde!&quot;  she  would  cry,  racing  off  to  fetch  a  bottle  of  pills  or  a  stethoscope.  And  the  evenings  by  the  stove,  when  Leni's  studying  was  done,  were  often  given  to  picturing  het  schooling  and  life  in  [REDACTED],  where  neither  had  ever  been,  and  telling  tales  before  the  fact  of  her  heroic  future.  O,  in  time,  Leni  did  go  to  [REDACTED].  She  was  eighteen.  Packing,  with  [REDACTED]  moving  restlessly  about,  irrita-  ble,  getting  in  the  way,  Leni  suddenly  decided  that  she  would  not  go  after  all-that  she  was  in  no  way  forced  to  become  anurse,  that  there  was  other  work  an  honor  graduate  of  the  Biirger-  schule  could  do  near  home  in  Kitzen-  bach.  And  for  a  warm  and  dizzying  moment  [REDACTED]  let  herself  accept  what  she  was  hearing,  but  it  was  out  of  the  question,  of  course,  as  Leni  knew.  The  dream  belonged  to  both  of  them.  They  had  saved  and  waited  too  long.  Be-  sides,  neither  would  ever  again  be  able  to  face  the  Herr  Doktor.  They  said  such  things  over  and  over,  though  none  of  them  needed  to  be  said,  Both  wept.  And  in  [REDACTED],  as  in  school  in  Kitz-  enbach,  Leni  kept  largely  to  herself,  writing  faithfullyto  [REDACTED]  in  a  stilted,  formal  fashion;  she  was,  to  be  sure,  not  used  to  letter  writing.  She  absorbed  what  she  could  of  the  city.  With  the  Doctor's  records  in  mind,  she  bought  standing  room  at  the  Philharmonic  and  the  Staatsoper.  She  worked  hard,  show-  ing  a  special  interest  in  laboratory  work  and  an  aptitude  for  blood  studies.  And  whenever  she  went  home  on  holiday  she  chattered  from  morning  to  night  about  life  in  the  school  and  the  capital,  and  [REDACTED]  would  clasp  her  hands  or  throw  them  up  in  delight  and  disbelief.  [REDACTED]  went  on  saving.  She  meant  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  for  Leni's  graduation,  and  she  did.  Afterward,  they  stayeda  few  extra,  festive  days.  [REDACTED],  observ-  ing  the  shortness  of  Leni's  skirts,  was  comforted  to  reflect  that  those  worn  by  the  nurses  on  duty  in  the  hospital  were  entirely  seemly.  And  Leni  found  Mar-  ta's  heavy,  embroidered  Sunday-morn-  ing  dresses  strange  in  a  hotel  restaurant  in  summer,  as  they  had  never  seemed  in  any  season  at  home.  But  Leni  was  too  exalted  and  [REDACTED]  too  filled  with  pride  to  be  put  off  by  trifles.  They  took  a  bus  tour  to  rural  Burgenland,  where,  in  one  village,  storks  nested  on  all  the  roofs,  and  where  [REDACTED]  seemed  in  key.  On  the  way  back,  the  tour  stopped  for  wine  and  cheese  in  a  Gasthaus  garden.  The  red  wine  in  Burgenland  is  light-col-  ored  but  strong,  some  peasants  at  other  tables  were  singing,  and  [REDACTED]  hap-  pily,  heartily,  joined  in,  though  Leni,  blushing  a  little  after  the  wine,  did  not.  But  now  Leni  was  a  nurse.  The  terms  of  her  scholarship  calledfor  a  return  ofat  least  four  years  to  the  hos-  pital  in  Kitzenbach.  They  could  go  home  together.  T  first,  all  the  days  were  good,  and  [REDACTED]  was  elated  whenever  she  found  herself  working  with-working  under-Leni.  Rank  was  rank,  but  Leni  was  new,  and  [REDACTED]  had  been  there  for  years  and  knew  the  ropes.  She  and  Leni  talked  at  home  as  they  always  had,  and  also  sometimes  in  quiet  intervals  in  the  hospital  corridors.  They  were  doing  so  one  day  when  Sister  Erna,  the  head  nurse  of  the  floor,  came  striding  by.  She  nodded  and  said  nothing.  Leni  and  [REDACTED]  had  been  speaking  in  the  local  dialect,  but  Leni  instantly  changed  to  formal  German.  Later,  Sister  Erna  admonished  them  both,  though  separately.  She  under-  stood  that  the  situation  would  present  its  difficulties,  but  personal  conversa-  &lt;&lt;##  tions  were  to  be  conducted  elsewhere.  &quot;A  discipline  must  be  observed.  The  Chief  insists.&quot;  (And,  indeed,  the  Chief  had  once  been  a  military  doctor  and  ran  his  hospital  accordingly.)  So  [REDACTED]  and  Leni  no  longer  stopped  to  chat  in  the  halls,  though-with  an  uneasiness  both  felt  and  neither  understood-no  mention  was  made  of  the  warnings.  And  when,  thereafter,  the  two  of  them  talked  in  line  of  duty  Leni  did  so  in  proper  German,  and  [REDACTED]  tried  tore-  member  to  follow  suit.  After  that,  matters  between  them  were  less  in  balance,  at  least  in  the  hos-  pital.  Leni-diffident  and  troubled-  did  not  like  to  give  [REDACTED]  orders.  [REDACTED],  determined  that  everything  touching  Leni  should  be  totally  cor-  rect,  responded  to  those  she  did  get  from  her  with  so  great  an  air  of  obe-  dience  that  Leni,  puzzled  and  final-  ly  hurt,  began  to  imagine  that  [REDACTED]  was  mocking  her.  So  Leni  more  and  more  often  singled  out  other  aides  to  help  her,  and  [REDACTED],  preoccupied  with  a  subterranean  jealousy  of  them,  be-  came  negligent,  now  and  then,  and  had  to  be  reprimanded  by  other  nurses.  An  enormous  young  man  was  there,  recovering  from  head  injuries.  He  was  well  enough  to  be  restless  and  to  per-  suade  a  friend  to  smuggle  him  a  bottle  of  schnapps.  This  was  after  Leni  had  been  at  the  hospital  some  months;  she  often  helped  in  Herr  Doktor  Haider's  laboratory  now.  As  she  was  leaving  it  on  the  day  of  the  smuggling,  the  young  man  was  in  the  hall  and  saw  her.  He  was  playful.  Leni  was  wearing  an  en-  veloping  red  plastic  apron,  which  prompted  him  to  raise  fingers  to  either  side  of  his  head,  lower  it,  and  charge  at  her.  He  did  not  touch  her.  She  or-  dered  him,  with  all  the  dignity  she  could  command,  to  his  room.  He  laughed  and  wheeled,  bellowed,  and  charged,  and,  red  spots  on  her  pale  cheeks,  hands  and  knees  shaking,  she  backed  to  the  wall,  where  he  loomed  grinning  above  her.  [REDACTED]  came  along  the  hall  with  an  armload  of  linen.  She  put  it  on  a  handy  stretcher  and  cor-  dially  addressed  the  boy  as  &quot;Meister  Ochs,&quot;  delighting  him.  She  gripped  one  arm  and  marched  him  a  dozen  steps  toward  his  room,  and  sent  him,  tamed,  on  his  way  with  a  whack  on  the  backside.  It  was  against  all  rules  and  custom  for  an  aide  to  be  familiar  with  a  patient,  and  Leni  had  no  choice  but  to  say  so  on  the  spot.  It  was  winter.  That  evening,  Leni  pedalled  fast  on  the  road  across  the  frosted  wheat  stumps.  The  bicycle  was  new  and  good,  as  befitted  a  new  and  rising  nurse.  She  wanted  to  reach  home  first  and  build  the  fire  in  the  stove,  but  " b"[REDACTED]  was  there  already  and  the  house  was  warm.  In  another  sense,  in  other  ways,  the  warmth  ofthe  house  was  thinning.  They  spoke  less  and  less  of  their  life  in  the  hospital,  and  now  there  were  few  or  none  of  the  visions  that  once  had  reliably  warmed  them.  In  this  absence,  Leni  was  likely  to  read  at  night-books  that  the  Doctor  lenther,  books  that  would  help  her  advance-while  [REDACTED]  sat  sewing,  or  merely  sat,  in  a  silent  and  growing  panic.  In  the  spring,  Leni  bought  two  framed  reproductions-the  Mona  Lisa  and  Diirer's  hands  in  prayer.  They  did  not  fit  to  her  satis-  faction  with  the  motto  and  the  portrait  of  Jesus,  which  they  were  meant  to  offset  but  did  not.  Nor  did  the  small  copy  of  the  angular  figure  of  a  Celtic  chicf,  found  in  an  excavation  down  the  valley.  [REDACTED]  said  nothing  but  re-  garded  the  little  green  man  as  ugly,  pagan,  and  possibly  malign.  Leni  went  on  bringing  offerings  to  cnhance  the  house.  She  thought  of  these,  at  least  in  part,  as  gifts  of  molli-  fication  for  [REDACTED],  and  brought  them  whenever  a  feeling  of  desertion-  though,  to  be  sure,  she  had  come  home  again-filled  her  with  sadness  and  love.  Meanwhile,  [REDACTED]  repeatedly  and  dog-  gedly  prepared  meals  that  once  had  enraptured  them  both  but  that  Leni  now  approached  with  a  simple  deter-  mination  to  get  through  them.  And  [REDACTED]  prayed  and  slept  beneath  the  motto,  the  sight  of  which  had  come  to  make  Leni  cringe,  HEN  nearly  three  years  had  gone  by,  Leni  was  offered  a  promotion.  Sister  Erna  was  now  to  be  head  nurse  of  the  wing,  and  Leni  of  her  floor.  She  had  no  choice  (she  told  herself  anxiously  many  times)  but  to  move  to  the  hospital's  residence:  she  could  not  fill  her  post  and  work  in  the  laboratory  and  still  live  off  in  the  vil-  lage.  Live  at  home.  This  was  again  in  winter.  The  change  was  scheduled  for  April.  Leni  told  [REDACTED]  of  it.  [REDACTED]  said  that  Leni  need  not  wait,  that  she  might  leave  at  once.  She  said,  shouting,  face  swelling  and  dark,  that  Leni  had  already  deserted  her,  that  she  had  be-  come  too  lofty  a  lady-&quot;Eine  feine  Dame!&quot;  She  said  that  Leni  had  changed  her  house,  had  made  it  no  longer  hers.  There  was  more.  Each  went,  at  last,  to  her  room.  Leni  did  not  sleep  at  all  that  night,  though  [REDACTED]  did,  tossing  somewhat,  after  prolonged  devotions.  In  the  morning,  Leni  moved  to  a  dormitory  with  three  other  nurses;  in  April,  she  was  to  have  a  small  room  of  her  own.  She  stored  away  the  re-  productions  against  that  time,  but  she  overlooked  the  Celtic  chief.  [REDACTED]  took  it  to  the  desk  of  the  residence,  then  did  not  leave  it,  fearing  that  Leni  would  think  it  was  brought  in  spite.  Instead,  she  kept  it  in  her  linen  closet  until  Leni  was  on  the  floor,  then  hand-  ed  it  to  her  silently,  pressing  Leni's  hands  around  it,  and  they  kissed.  Leni  went  home  on  some  Sundays.  These  were  strained,  but  less  so  than  earlier  ones  had  been.  And  when,  in  April,  the  promotion  came  and  the  move  to  a  single  room  was  made,  Leni  asked  [REDACTED]  to  see  it;  aides  could  visit  the  rooms  on  invitation.  [REDACTED]  went,  dressed  as  for  church,  and  took  with  her  the  motto,  newly  and  lovingly  laundered,  and  starched  to  give  it  body-a  celebration,  a  reminder  of  home-to  watch  over  Leni  from  above  her  bed.  She  hung  it  there  with  pro-  tests  and  fervent  thanks,  but  only  for  the  length  of  [REDACTED]'s  call.     HE  weeks  pass,  the  carly  summer  comes,  the  wheat  is  light  gold  in  the  valley,  Leni  and  [REDACTED]  meet  al-  " b"32  most  clandestinely,  but  almost  daily,  at  an  intersection  of  wooded  paths  in  the  hospital  grounds,  embracing,  standing  with  clasping  hands,  reporting  the  day's  small  doingswhileeach  searches  the  other's  face.  Sometimes  [REDACTED]  brings  a  parcel  of  solid  food  to  make  sure  that  Leni's  strength  is  being  kept  up.  Some-  times-not  often-Leni  eats  a  little  of  it  in  her  room.  As  a  rule,  she  disposes  of  it  secretly,  feeling  disconsolate,  feel-  ing  like  crying.  But  other  nurses  drop  in  on  her,  after  all.  And  then  the  Ameri-  can  is  brought  to  the  hospital  in  the  night-Herr  Jamison-  and  forthe  next  weeks  his  alien  presence  permeates  the  climate  of  the  floor.  Both  [REDACTED]  and  Leni  go  to  his  room  often-  Leni  to  take  samples  of  his  blood  and  to  see  to  in-  fusions  of  plasma,  [REDACTED]  to  change  his  linen  and  preside  over  the  cleaning.  Leni  is  discreet,  if  curious.  She  has  no  English,  he  no  German.  If  she  wants  to  see  the  cover  of  a  book,  she  will  find  a  need  to  move  the  book,  signalling  a  deep  apology.  If  she  wants  to  see  the  contents  of  the  closet,  she  will  get  a  pillow  from  its  shelf.  [REDACTED]  is  gustily  cheerful,  as  a  rule,  though  if  Leni  should  come  in,  she  will  vanish  when  she  can.  There  is  a  small  trapeze  above  the  patient's  bed,  and  when  [REDACTED]  changes  linen  and  he  hoists  his  body  from  the  heels  up  to  help  her,  &quot;Akro-  bat!&quot;  she  will  cry.  &quot;Gymnast!&quot;  If  she  has  occasion  to  fetch  a  blanket  from  the  closet,  she  will  feel  the  texture  of  the  suits  there  and  exclaim,  &quot;Fein!  Fein!&quot;  But  if  he  is  reading  or,  lat-  er,  sketching-forever  sketching-she  grows  shy  and,  awed,  soon  tiptoes  out.  It  is  an  exciting  season  in  other  ways  as  well.  For  one  thing,  the  Herr  Dok-  tor  has  said  that  there  is  likely  to  be  an  opening  for  a  laboratory  assistant  in  [REDACTED].  Leni's  required  time  in  Kitzen-  bach  will  soon  be  up,  and  he  has  of-  fered  to  use  his  influence.  Leni  hesitates  and  then  says,  as  she  said  long  before,  &quot;Die  Tante  braucht  mich.&quot;  Still,  itis  bracing  to  be  well  thought  of,  and  both  she  and  [REDACTED]  are  proud.  But  [REDACTED]  the  aide  remains  a  great  worry  to  Leni  the  floor  nurse.  She  has  come  upon  the  &quot;Akrobaet!&quot;  performance  and  others  like  it  more  than  once.  And  on  the  day  when  Herr  Jamison  is  allowed  out  of  bed  and  [REDACTED]  brings  his  afternoon  butter-  milk,  she  fetches  another  glass  of  it  for  herself,  and  Leni  walks  in  during  the  boisterous  toasts  that  follow.  All  this  would  be  forward  in  any  case,  but     when  it  is  carried  on  with  the  Ameri-  can-the  stranger  with  the  strange  but  unmistakably  worldly  manners,  the  fine  clothes,  the  clear  evidence  of  wealth,  the  books,  the  skill  to  draw-it  is  dis-  comfiting,  upsetting,  and  surely  de-  meaning  for  [REDACTED]  in  the  man's  eyes.  For  Leni  knows  a  little  of  the  world  and  its  attitudes.  Shewatches  when  she  can.  She  has  lived  in  [REDACTED].  She  thinks  for  a  little  of  changing  the  duty  roster  so  that  [REDACTED]  will  not-or  will  seldom  -see  Herr  Jamison,  and  so  be  spared  embarrassing  afterthoughts  and  repri-  mands.  But  Leni  cannot  bring  herself  to  do  this.  Still,  she  suffers  for  her.  Midsummer,  now.  Herr  Jamison  is  nearly  ready  to  leave.  He  will  go  on  as  he  had  planned,  to  4974616c79,  and  to  more  distant  places,  and  to  [REDACTED],  where  he  is  an  artist  engaged  in  advertise-  ments  and  books.  And  the  day  before  he  is  to  go  he  presents  [REDACTED]  with  two  drawings  of  herself-  one  facing  front  and  laughing,  the  oth-  er  running  at  full  tilt.  She  is  over-  whelmed.  She  does  not  know  how  to  thank  him,  though-volubly-she  tries.  And  then,  seized  by  diffidence,  and  feeling  that  she  may  weep,  she  retreats  with  a  series  of  bows.  She  must  thank  him  again,  properly,  but  she  is  afraid  she  will  be  tongue-  tied  still.  For  the  rest  of  the  day,  she  considers  this  problem,  and  at  last  she  finds  the  answer.  She  will  send  a  token  of  thanks,  and  her  farewell,  by  way  of  Leni.  She  herself  will  simply  happen  not  to  see  him  again;  she  will  be  on  duty  elsewhere.  So,  early  in  the  morning,  [REDACTED]  brings  a  basket  covered  witha  worn  but  immaculate  napkin  to  Leni.  Herr  Jamison  is  to  leave  at  noon;  his  car  will  be  sent  from  the  garage.  Leni  must  give  him  the  basket  atthe  last  minute.  He  will  greatly  enjoy  its  contents  on  his  journey.  Leni  promises.  But  first  she  takes  the  basket  to  her  room  and  looks  inside  it,  finding  what  she  is  certain  she  will  find,  though  she  has  hoped  with  all  her  heart  she  would  not:  Bavernbrot-  black  farmer  bread.  A  length  of  hard  farmer  sausage,  goat  cheese,  and,  worst  of  all,  a  substantial  slab  of  Speck-fat  smoked  bacon,  beloved  of  all  the  peas-  ants  of  the  region,  whose  energies  it  fires.  There  is  also  beer.  Leni  cannot  give  these  things  to  Herr  Jamison.  She  sees  him  smiling  down  at  them  on  the  road  to  4974616c79-  smiling  down  at  [REDACTED].  He  will  be  feeling  kindly  enough,  no  doubt,  but  he  will  shrug,  then  drive  on  to  the  next  Gasthaus  for  his  hunger.  And  this  Leni  cannot  have  for  [REDACTED].  There  is  time.  A  Konditorei  is  near-  by,  also  a  wineshop.  She  thinksof  old  Herr  Oberdorfer,  whose  visitors  bring  him  sustenance  from  both,  to  spare  him  hospital  food.  Well  before  noon,  Leni  hasput  delicate  ham  and  chicken  sand-  wiches  on  thin  white  bread  andan  as-  sortment  of  small  frosted  cakes  (favor-  ites  with  Herr  Oberdorfer,  one  of  the  town's  first  citizens)  in  place  of  the  black  bread,  the  sausage,  and  the  im-  possible  Speck.  The  goat  cheese  and  the  beer  remain,  but  she  adds  a  bottle  of  wine.  And,  taking  the  basket  to  her  of-  fice  to  await  presentation,  she  knows,  with  profound  satisfaction,  that  she  has  done  the  right  thing-that  Herr  Jami-  son,  on  the  road,  will  understand  how  [REDACTED]  can  respond  with  grace  to  a  gracious  gesture.  But-also  before  noon-[REDACTED],  still  grateful,  slips  out  across  the  river  and  picks  a  small  bouquet.  Clover,  daisies,  and  cornflower,  and  in  the  center  a  sprig  of  wheat.  She  goes  back  and  waits  near  the  office  for  Leni  to  ap-  pear,  but  Leni  is  elsewhere,  and  final-  ly  [REDACTED]-not  wanting  to  be  found  by  Herr  Jamison,  who  will  soon  be  checking  out-seeing  the  basket  wait-  ing  on  the  desk,  tiptoes  in  to  puta  spray  of  luck  under  the  napkin.  And  when  Herr  Jamison  and  Leni  meet  there  promptly  at  noon,  she  gives  him  the  basket  with  [REDACTED]'s  thanks.  ENI  and  [REDACTED]  do  not  meet  on  the  wooded  path  that  afternoon  or  the  next.  When  they  do,  [REDACTED]  does  not  mention  the  basket.  It  is  a  small  mat-  ter,  after  all-it  is  only  the  upshot,  a  clear  glimpse  at  last  of  something  that  has  already  happened.  Long  ago.  She  knows  this  now.  And  they  do  meet  and  embrace,  they  talk,  if-to  Leni's  puz-  zlement-more  stiffly  than  they  have  in  recent  days.  They  holdeach  other's  hands-stiffly  also,  though  both  would  be  afraid  not  to.  And  when,  a  few  days  later,  [REDACTED]  asks  the  Herr  Doktor  for  the  post  in  [REDACTED]  for  Leni  (who  would  never,  she  says  rightly,  ask  for  it  herself),  it  is  by  no  means  for  want  of  love.  "