OLD  WOMAN  O  most  people  the  Miss  Gullivers  seemed  the  same  age.  One  of  them  was  known  to  be  older  than  theother,  but  which  only  the  insurance  man  knew.  They  weren't  so  very  old-  not  seventy  or  eighty  or  anything  like  that.  Sixty  something,  you  know,  going  on  for  seventy.  Old  ladies.  And  they  weren't  so  very  much  alike,  really.  One  had  light-blue  eyes  and  prominent  teeth  and  the  other  wore  spectacles  and  had  a  mole  on  her  chin,  but  people  bestowedMiss  Jessica's  teeth  on  Miss  Madge  or  Miss  Madge's  mole  on  Miss  Jessica  in  the  most  callous  manner  and  still  could  not  remember  which  was  which,  Nobody  ever  looked  at  them  longer  than  it  took  to  register:  &quot;The  Miss  Gullivers,&quot;  or  if  either  of  them  was  met  separately:  &quot;I  saw  one  ofthe  Miss  Gullivers  in  the  post  office  this  morning.&quot;  Even  a  distant  relative  who  lived  in  Huddersfield  did  not  know  one  from  the  other,  and  when,  on  one  of  her  infrequent  visits  to  [REDACTED],  she  knocked  at  the  door  of  her  cousins'  house  was  liable  to  say  indiscriminately,  whichever  opened  to  her  knock,  &quot;You  get  more  and  more  like  Jessica  every  day.&quot;  It  had  not  always  been  like  this  with  the  Miss  Gullivers.  They  had  been  Jessie  and  Maddie  to  their  father  and  mother,  and  nobody  ever  forgot  that  Jessie  was  the  elder.  All  through  their  childhood  Jessie  was  the  clever  one  and  Maddie  the  good  one,  the  sunny-natured.  When  they  went  on  errands  and  later  to  day  school,  it  was  always  Jessie  who  chose  the  side  streets  to  be  taken  and  Mad-  die  who  had  to  follow,  with  rage  in  her  heart,  and  when  it  was  Maddie  who  asked,  &quot;May  we  paint?&quot;  or  &quot;May  we  play  with  plasticine?&quot;  the  choice  was  always  Jessie's.  It  was  Jessie  who  chose  the  books  at  the  library,  and  Maddie  had  to  read  &quot;Little  Women&quot;  and  &quot;Eric  or  Little  by  Little&quot;  when  what  she  really  would  have  liked  was  &quot;Black  Beauty.&quot;  There  was  even  an  air  of  ambiguity  about  the  Miss  Gullivers  cat,  for  though  ten  years  old,  Nelson  had  the  spurious  youthfulness  that  dependence  on  others  and  constant  petting  sometimes  give  to  the  aged.  And  why  should  a  rich  tab  of  matronly  appearance  be  called  Nelson  and  yet  be  invariably  re-     ferred  to  as  &quot;she&quot;?  Nelson  had  come  into  the  world  on  Trafalgar  Day  in  a  set  of  five  kittens,  all  reported  by  the  milkman  to  be  boys  and  distribut-  ed  among  friends  and  acquaintances  on  that  understanding.  When,  almost  simultaneously,  they  produced  five  kit-  tens  apiece,  there  was  consternation  in  five  [REDACTED]  households.  Nelson  had  two  families  in  little  over  a  year  and  the  Miss  Gullivers  felt  they  could  not  face  a  lifetime  of  finding  homes  for  kit-  tens  every  few  months.  But  the  prospect  of  periodical  massacres  of  the  innocents  appalled  their  cat-compassionate  hearts,  and  the  milkman,  called  in  for  consul-  tation,  advised  them  to  send  Nelson  to  the  vet.  After  much  heartburning  this  was  done,  half  a  crown  extra  being  paid  for  an  anesthetic,  and  Nelson  came  back  insured  against  kittens.  Till  then  she  had  been  as  playful  as  a  kitten  her-  self,  but  she  soon  fell  into  staid  dozing  ways,  scarcely  looking  up  when  a  ping-  pong  ball  was  bounced  under  her  nose  and  turning  disdainfully  from  her  clockwork  mouse.  And  yet  her  mis-  tresses  had  their  work  cut  out  to  keep  her  away  from  the  goldfish  bowl,  and  she  would  sit  for  hours  on  the  window-  sill  gazing  at  the  sparrows  flitting  in  the  branches  of  the  old  sycamore  tree  in  the  yard,  untucking  her  folded  paws  now  and  again  and  fidgeting  uneasily.  A  curved  breast  feather  poised  on  the   carpet,  a  speck  of  slowly  wavering  fluff  in  the  air  aroused  sleeping  reflexes,  and  Miss  Jessica  and  Miss  Madge  would  cling  to  one  another  when  their  idol  leaped  from  her  statuesque  repose  to  lunge  at  the  fluff  in  midair,  or  pounce  stiff-legged  on  the  rocking  feather.  But  her  predatory  instincts  were  moribund;  she  never  again  brought  a  dead  bird  or  a  quivering  mass  of  frog  to  lay  at  the  feet  of  her  mistresses.  Nelson  soon  lost  the  delicious  greed  her  slaves  had  ministered  to  with  such  joyous  ardor.  She  never  seemed  to  have  an  appetite,  and  the  infrequent  visitor  who  happened  in  while  Nelson  was  be-  ing  coaxed  to  eat  was  admitted  by  Miss  Jessica  (or  was  it  Miss  Madge?)  with  a  finger  held  to  her  parted  lips,  while  Miss  Madge  (if  it  was  not  Miss  Jes-  sica)  might  be  discovered  with  her  knit-  ting  held  rigid  on  her  knees.  Looking  round,  the  visitor  saw  nothing  but  a  cat  lapping  cream  from  the  far  side  of  a  saucer  on  the  floor.  Only  when  it  turned  away,  languidly  licking  its  chops,  and  sprang  powerfully  up  to  the  top  ofthe  sofa,  did  Miss  Jessica  (or  perhaps  Miss  Madge)  move  a  chair  for  the  visitor,  explaining  with  a  depre-  catory  smile  that  the  least  thing  put  Nelson  off  her  feed.  The  fourth  member  of  this  not  so  jocund  company  was  Silver,  the  min-  now.  The  leaden-stepping  hours  paid  out  in  seconds  by  the  grandfather  clock  in  the  drawing  room  ground  the  wrin-  kles  ever  deeper  into  the  Miss  Gullivers'  faces  and  even  seemed  to  weigh  upon  Nelson's  more  resilient  frame,.  But  what  has  the  heavy  plummet's  pace  to  do  with  a  two-inch  minnow  darting  a  million  million  times  from  its  tiny  thicket  of  waterweeds,  plunging  back  again  just  when  it  seemed  it  must  stub  its  blunt  nose  against  the  side  of  the  bowl?  Silver's  eye  remained  firmly  protuberant,  no  crow's-feet  marred  the  surface  of  its  shining  armor,  its  taut  con-  tours  were  immune  to  the  flabbiness  of  age.  Visitors  sometimes  expressed  surprise  that  the  Miss  Gullivers  did  not  keep  a  budgerigar.  A  bird  would  be  no  less  suited  than  a  fish  to  coexistence  with  a  cat,  and  would  surely  be  a  more  rewarding  pet.  -  But  Silver  had  been  &quot;sent&quot;  to  them,  left  by  an  unknown  hand  in  a  jam  jar  on  the  back  doorstep,  and  they  had  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  not  had  the  heart  to  send  him  back.  Besides,  where  was  there  to  send  him?  So  they  brought  the  jar  in  and  set  it  on  the  scullery  floor.  Nelson  was  on  the  spot  immediately,  though,  just  before,  they  had  searched  the  house  for  her  in  vain.  Fas-  cinated,  they  watched  her  dip  her  paw  into  the  jar,  with-  draw  it  sharply,  and  shake  off  a  few  chill  drops.  She  licked  perfunctorily  at  the  pads  un-  der  her  claws,  never  removing  her  arch,  ferocious  gaze  from  the  tiny  silver  boomerang  in  the  jar.  The  second  time  the  paw  went  deeper  into  the  wa-  ter  and  came  out  loaded,  but  the  moment  the  harsh  air  en-  tered  the  minnows  gill  cham-  bers  it  shot  upward  and  dropped  like  a  stone  back  into  the  jar.  Nelson  made  another  tentative  dab  at  the  surface  of  the  water,  but  a  tiny  jet  splashing  up  and  falling  in  a  drop  on  her  nose  seemed  to  discourage  her.  Annoyed  and  puzzled  (Miss  Jessica  and  Miss  Madge  knew  and  could  interpret  all  Nelson's  expres-  sions),  she  drew  her  paw  to-  ward  her  for  a  short,  sharp  lick,  set  it  down  daintily,  and  minced  out  of  the  scullery.  Miss  Jessica  made  the  revolting  suggestion  that  the  min-  now  should  be  boiled  for  Nelson's  tea,  but  Miss  Madge  knew  she  didn't  mean  it.  She  had  said  it  just  to  tease  her  sis-  ter.  Miss  Madge  understood  this  from  the  way  Miss  Jessica  picked  up  the  jar  and  shooed  Nelson  (who  had  come  back  again  and  was  looking  on  with  blazing  eyes)  into  the  back  yard.  SILVER  was  housed  in  a  fishbowl  that  Miss  Madge  recovered  from  ahat,  box  in  the  attic.  The  sisters  remem-  bered  this  bowl  with  unexpressed  re-  morse.  It  had  been  the  prison  of  three  goldfish,  the  consolation  of  their  bed-  ridden  mother's  last  years.  All  three  had  died  soon  after  her  funeral,  be-  cause  neither  of  the  sisters  (younger  then  and  so  heartless)  could  see  why  she  should  be  the  one  to  feed  them.  Miss  Madge  sat  long  on  the  floor  of  the  attic,  gazing  with  brimming  eyes  into  the  glass  bowl  between  her  hands.  Through  its  side  she  could  see  the  shiny  black  wall  of  the  hatbox,  nar-  rower  at  the  bottom,  spreading  grace-  fully  upward,  like  a  lily,  or  like  an  inverted  top  hat.  It  had  indeed  once  contained  a  top  hat,  and  the  pad  of  green  plush  used  to  smooth  its  glossy sides  still  lay  in  tissue  paper  at  the  bot-  tom.  The  hat  had  been  their  father's,  the  very  symbol  of  his  dignity,  only  taken  out  for  weddings  and  funerals,  or  for  periodical  inspection.  The  box  stood  under  the  marital  bed  long  after  Father's  death,  but  when  Mother  died  Miss  Jessica  had  taken  it  and  sent  the  topper  to  a  jumble  sale.  Guy  Fawkes  Day  was  the  only  day  in  the  year  that  one  of  the  Miss  Gullivers  went  out  shopping  alone,  the  other  staying  at  home  with  Nelson,  the  windows  shut  and  the  curtains  drawn-the  popping  rockets  and  raucous  cries  played  havoc  with  Nelson's  nerves  and  they  did  not  like  to  leave  her  alone  in  the  house.  On  Guy  Fawkes  Day  Miss  Madge  was  sure  she  had  seen  Father's  tophat  balanced  over  a  ghastly  white  face  borne  past  her  on  trundling  wheels.  Later  in  the  day  she  had  come  upon  an  abandoned  go-cart  at  the  corner  of  the  public  house.  In  it  was  a  sagging  figure  with  a  top  hat  jammed  over  its  face.  That  night  she  had  dreamed  confused  jack-in-the-box  dreams,  of  Punch,  of  Judy,  of  the  dog  Toby,  and  a  limp  figure  flung  downdown  into  blackness.  And  now  she  sat  on  the  attic  floor  with  the  bowl  on  her  knees,  and  remem-  bered  how  her  father  had  always  loved  her  the  best,  how  she  and  Jessie  had  giggled  and  kissed  and  quarrelled,  but  Jessie  always  had  her  own  way  about  everything.  .  ..  And  how  life  was  passing  and  nothing  had  ever  really  happened  to  either  of  them.  SILVER  was  in  greater  danger  of  be-  ing  overcherished  than  neglected.  Miss  Madge  attended  to  him  more  closely  than  his  primitive  needs  re-  quired,  everfancying  he  looked  hun-  gry  or  his  water  needed  changing.  Miss  Jessica  insisted  on  training  the  light  from  an  electric  bulb  over  the  bowl  for  two  hours  every  day,  having  read  that  fish  required  ultraviolet  rays.  Miss  Madge  was  afraid  the  glare  would  give  Silver  a  headache  and  bought  a  blue  bulb  of  inmense  power.  The  poetry  of  life  was  never  quite  dead  for  Miss  Madge:  to  stand  and  stare  gave  her  a  satisfaction  of  which  she  was  almost  ashamed.  (She  was  one  of  the  few  women  who  could  watch  a  baby  at  play  without  longing  to  pick  it  up.)  Once,  she  had  come  back  from  early-  morning  church  to  findthat  the  wild  iris  in  a  bottle  on  the  windowsill  had  freed  itself  from  its  sheaf;  if  she  had  not  gone  to  church  she  might  have  witnessed  the  final  click  as  the  delicate-  ly  sprung  petals  were  released.  The  thought  almost  made  her  hatethe  " b"34  vicar.  She  would  release  a  fly  from  the  toils  of  golden  syrup  and  watch  for  an  hour  its  herculean  efforts  to  scrape  the  cloying  film  to  the  edge  of  its  wings  in  tiny  beads,  which  fell  one  at  a  time  onto  the  table.  And  she  never  wearied  of  watching  the  water  sift  through  the  filaments  of  Silver's  subtly  articulated  tail.  Silver  was  the  only  fish  in  the  house,  but  otherwise  his  hold  on  identity  was  slight.  His  sex  was  bestowed  on  him  firmly  from  the  very  beginning,  but  there  was  nobody  to  vouch  for  it.  He  might  just  as  well  have  been  a  girl-fish.  And  then  one  day  a  small  boy  came  to  the  back  door  with  another  minnow,  in  a  Crosse  &amp;  Blackwell  jar.  He  explained  that  it  was  he  who  had  left  Silver  on  the  back  doorstep,  and  now  he  had  brought  another  to  keep  him  company.  The  Miss  Gullivers  were  positively  ex-  cited  at  this  idea  and  the  transfer  from  jam  jar  to  fishbowl  was  expeditiously  made  under  the  keenly  interested  eyes  of  Nelson  before  you  could  say  knife.  Miss  Jessica  gave  the  little  boy  majestic  permission  to  come  the  next  day  and  see  how  the  minnows  were  getting  on.  She  even  gave  him  a  biscuit  and  watched  him  out  of  sight.  Back  in  the  drawing  room  she  found  Miss  Madge  and  Nelson  in  a  state  of  agitation.  The  new  minnow  was  float,  ing  belly  up  in  the  fishbowl  and  Silver  was  swimming  serenely  to  and  fro  in  the  middle  depths.  Victorious  Silver!  He  would  not  tolerate  a  rival  in  his  realm.  The  Miss  Gullivers  were  sorry  forthe  poor  stranger,  of  course,  but  gave  him  to  Nelson  to  play  with.  And  they  were  sorry  to  have  to  tell  the  little  boy  the  new  minnow  was  dead.  They  allowed  him  to  come  into  the  drawing  room  again,  whereupon  he  staunchly  declared  that  the  minnow  swimming  triumphantly  out  of  the  weeds  was  the  new  minnow  -he  knew  every  spot  on  its  body.  According  to  this  horrid  boy,  it  was  Silver  who  had  been  routed,  killed  by  the  newcomer  and  played  with  and  subsequently  eaten  by  Nelson.  Nothing  could  convince  the  Miss  Gul-  livers  of  this;  they,  too,  knew  every  spot  on  their  minnows  body.  Miss  Madge  even  knew  his  different  expres-  sions  and  could  see  when  he  was  tired  or  out  of  spirits  by  the  changing  rhythms  of  his  fins.  From  that  moment  Silver  entered  the  charmed  circle  of  ambiguity.  Was  he,  or  was  he  not,  really  Silver?  The  Miss  Gullivers  put  all  doubts  resolutely  from  them,  but  in  their  hearts  they  were  never  quite  sure.  Silver  brought  fresh  complications  into  the  lives  of  the  Miss  Gullivers,  each  of  whom  lived  in  perpetual  anxi-  ety  lest  the  other  should  have  left  the  drawing-room  door  open.  And  even  when  one  of  them  was  in  the  room,  even  when  they  were  both  there,  they  had  to  keep  a  sharp  lookout  in  case  Nelson  jumped  on  the  windowsill.  Nelson's  very  presence  there  was  enough  to  set  Silver  darting  frenetically  to  the  bottom  of  the  bowl,  and  once  they  had  only  just  been  in  time  to  pull  the  terrible  hooked  paw  out  of  the  water.  Each  morning  the  Miss  Gullivers  set  out  fora  row  of  shops  parallel  to  Jocelyn  Terrace,  where  they  lived,  to  do  the  shopping  for  themselves  and  their  pensioners.  It  made  no  difference  whether  they  turned  down  Budd  Street,  Lupin  Street,  or  Caitlin  Place,  since  their  house  was  in  the  middle  of  the  Terrace.  Miss  Jessie  did  not  mind  which  of  the  three  side  streets  they  took  so  long  as  it  was  not  the  one  pre-  ferred  by  her  sister.  If  Miss  Madge  took  a  tentative  step  toward  Budd  Street,  Miss  Jessie  marched  resolutely  on  to  Lupin  Street.  At  the  subtlest  in-  dicationthat  Miss  Madge  intended  to  stop  at  the  traffic  light,  Miss  Jessica  would  turn  and  cross  the  road  the  oth-  er  way,  and  Miss  Madge,  tense  with  frustration,  would  follow.  After  Miss  Madge  had  come  back  from  a  whole  month  in  hospital,  she  did  think  Miss     -DouscLas  Dunn  Jessie  would  allow  her  an  invalid's  priv-  ilege.  But  no,  Miss  Jessica  waited  as  usual  for  her  sister  almost  to  turn  the  corner  into  Caitlin  Place  and  then  stalked  on  to  Lupin  Street,  sure  of  be-  ing  followed.  Then  let  her!  thought  Miss  Madge,  and  trudged  stubbornly  along  the  pavement  of  Caitlin  Place.  From  this  day  they  had  gone  to  the  shops  along  different  streets,  and  there  was  a  new  problem:  to  anticipate  each  other's  choice,  never  to  be  trapped  into  the  semblance  of  surrender.  Usual  ly  they  met  unsmiling  outside  the  pet  shop  or  the  butcher's,  but  sometimes  they  stopped  in  their  tracks,  simulta-  neously  visited  by  the  harrowing  appre-  hension  that  they  had  forgotten  to  shut  the  drawing-room  door.  They  would  have  been  saved  this  agony  if  one  of  them  had  stayed  at  home,  or  they  could  have  gone  shopping  on  alternate  days,  but  their  jealous  ardor  made  this  im-  possible.  O  indifferent  eyes,  the  passage  of  the  years  left  no  traces  of  change  in  the  sisters,  and  none  but  indifferent  eyes  ever  rested  on  Miss  Jessie  or  Miss  Madge  now.  Increasing  deafness,  fail-  ing  eyesight,  asthmatic  breathing,  ab-  sentmindedness  almost  amounting  to  amnesia  are  taken  for  granted  in  the  old.  The  tremor  of  the  hand,  the  tic  that  sets  the  head  a-bobbing  were  noted  by  few,  and  even  when  noted  were  un-  differentiated.  Was  it  Miss  Jessie  whose  left  hand  shook  and  Miss  Madge  whose  head  kept  nodding,  or  was  the  one  whose  hand  shook  Miss  Madge  and  .  .  .  And-  Oh,  shut  up,  can't  you?,  peo-  ple  said  before  these  speculations  were  completed.  Miss  Madge  was  the  first  to  go  (that  month  in  hospital).  She  had  no  illness,  was  not  a  day  in  bed,  but  one  afternoon  when  they  were  seated  in  " b"silence  with  their  needlework  beside  the  fire  and  Miss  Jessica  had  begun  to  wonder  if  it  wasn't  time  to  put  the  kettle  on,  Miss  Madge  let  her  work  drop  on  her  knees  and  said  very  faintly,  &quot;Jessie.&quot;  And  that  was  all.  Nelson  be-  gan  jumping  onto  Miss  Madge's  knee  and  down  again,  mewing,  and  almost  the  first  thing  Miss  Jessica  had  had  to  do  was  to  carry  her  out  of  the  room.  Resting  her  withered  cheek  on  the  warm,  domed  head,  she  thought,  No  one  will  ever  call  me  Jessie  again.  The  absurd-almost  blasphemous  in  the  cir-  cumstances-question  arose  in  her     mind:  What  would  Nelson  call  me  if  she  could  speak?  Miss  Jessica  wept  when  she  saw  Miss  Madge  looking  so  calm  and  beautiful  laid  out  amidst  spring  flowers  on  her  bed.  But  when  the  thought  visited  her:  Who  will  cry  when  I  am  dead?,  she  sobbed.  And  one  morning  Nelson  was  found  stretched  on  her  side  on  the  drawing-  room  hearth,  the  tip  of  her  tongue  showing  between  clenched  teeth.  Miss  Jessica  had  a  slight  stroke  the  next  day.  Through  all  this  death  and  devastation,  Silver  mounted  his  watery  treadmill  as  35  if  defying  time  and  death  to  catch  him  up.  Miss  Jessica's  stroke  left  her  much  as  usual  but  for  a  kind  of  landslide  from  her  left  eyebrow  to  the  point  of  her  chin.  The  cousin  came  up  from  Huddersfield,  solicitors  were  consulted,  and  the  house  and  most  of  thefurniture  were  sold,.  Only  the  grandfather  clock  turned  out  to  be  of  any  value,  and  it  was  snapped  up  as  aperiod  piece  by  a  prowling  American  the  moment  it  made  its  appearance  in  a  Fulham  shop-  window.  A  seaside  cottage  was  found  for  Miss  Jessica  and  furnished  with  the  " b"comfortable  armchair,  the  bed,  and  the  drawing-room  carpet,  and  other  unsold  pieces.  Mrs.  Yorke  next  door  promised  to  keep  an  eye  on  Miss  Jessi-  ca,  and  soon  a  new  Nelson  came  into  her  life.  He  had  turned  upon  Miss  Jessica's  doorstep  one  morning,  in  sad  plight  after  a  night  of  storm  during  which  a  ship  went  down  with  all  hands  in  full  sight  of  the  cliffs.  The  romantic  view  was  taken  that  the  cat  had  been  sent  to  console  her  in  her  loneliness.  Nobody  knew  what  Miss  Jessicaherself  thought  about  it,  but  she  gave  the  name  of  Nelson  to  the  stranger-a  half-  grown  tom,  black,  with  an  ample  shirt-  front  and  one  white  paw.  It  was  too  strenuous  for  such  an  old  lady  to  be  always  keeping  an  active  cat  away  from  the  fishbowl,  and  Silver  had  to  be  giv-  en  to  two  little  boys  who  were  staying  with  their  parents  at  Mrs.  Yorke's  next  door.  A  cat  was  more  company  than  a  minnow,  after  all,  and  Miss  Jessica  had  never  been  so  devoted  to  Silver  as  had  Miss  Madge.  When  the  visitors  re-  turned  to  town  they  left  Silver  behind,  and  their  landlady's  husband  took  the  bowl  down  to  the  edge  of  thesea  and  tipped  him  into  an  outgoing  wave,  where  he  died  immediately.  Miss  Jessica  was  no  longer  known  by  her  Christian  name,  orby  any  name  at  all.  The  fisher  people  called  her  &quot;the  old  'oman  next  to  Mrs.  Yorke's&quot;  and  the  boy  from  the  village  shop  left  her  groceries  with  Mrs.  Yorke's  order,  saying,  &quot;The  eggs  and  the  golden  syrup  is  for  the  old  'oman.&quot;  Miss  Jessica  lived  quietly  through  the  winter,  and  Nelson  grew  into  a  fine,  purring  cat.  When  summer  came  round  again,  seaside  visitors  stroked  the  black  pussy  seated  so  proudly  under  its  own  rooftree,  and  a  small  girl  whose  father  and  mother  brought  her  to  live  at  Mrs.  Yorke's  for  the  summer  took  to  sitting  on  Miss  Jessica's  porch  step  to  fondle  Nelson  and  chat  with  the  old  lady.  People  saw  Miss  Jessica's  lips  moving  and  little  Pattie  looking  into  her  face,  nodding  gravely  and  stam-  mering  out  shrill,  half-inarticulate  phrases,  and  wondered  what  the  two  could  be  talking  about.  Pattie's  father,  who  had  exhibited  in  the  Royal  Acad-  emy  ten  years  before,  did  a  picture  of  the  porch  with  Pattie  seated  at  the  old  woman's  feet-only  you  couldn't  see  their  faces  properly  and  Nelson  wasn't  there  at  all.  They  forgot  to  send  Pattieinto  say  goodbye  when  they  went  back  to  town  in  the  autumn,  and  by  next  summer  Miss  Jessica  was  dead  and  her  cottage  taken  by  a  family  from  [REDACTED].  &quot;A  pity,&quot;  said  Pattie's  mother.  &quot;It  would  have  just  suited  us.  We  ought  to  have  gone  round  and  said  goodbye  to  the  poor  oldthing.&quot;  Pattie's  father  was  sorry,  too;  he  had  hoped  to  go  on  with  his  picture  and  send  it  to  the  Royal  Academy.  But  Pattie  burst  into  tears.  &quot;Why  did  she  die?&quot;  she  asked,  looking  up  wildly.  &quot;I  didn't  want  her  to  be  died.&quot;"