 THAT  COSMOPOLITAN  GIRL  Must  a  girl  always  be  protected  by  a  man?  Not  this  girl!  When  I  lived  in  [REDACTED]  I  sometimes  picked  a  man  up  in  my  car  for  a  date  if  his  was  in  the  garage,  loaned  to  a  friend  or-my  car  was  in  better  shape!  (No,  he  wasn't  emasculated  and  we  stayed  friends.)  Last  week  at  J.F.K.  1  carried  one  of  Stephen's  bags.  He  was  loaded  with  golf  clubs  and  I  only  had  a  garment  bag  and  a  Vuitton.  (No,  I  didn't  throw  my  back  out  and  Stephen  and  1  are  still  together!)  Isn't  it  silly  to  try  to  preserve  old  cliches  when  naturalness  and  freedom  are  so  much  better?  -Adv.  for  Cosmopolitan  in  the  Times.  Of  course  the  next  da;  whea  Stephen  picked  meu  for  dinner  at  Vuitton,  looking  hysterically  handsome  in  his  Vuitton  coveralls,  I  was  a  shade  taken  aback  when  he  literally  demanded  that  I  pay  for  the  cab.  (He  always  use  to  do  little  things  like  that  as  a  matter  of  course!)  Well,  I  paid  cheerfully,  because  I  have  this  magazine  I  read  that  teaches  me  how  to  be  natural  and  healthy  and  resilient,  but  then  when  we  got  out  of  the  cab  he  loaded  this  immense  steamer  trunk  on  my  back.  I  said,  &quot;Stephen,  what  arse  you  doing?&quot;  He  sald,  &quot;Just  get1%  ingidey;\xc2\xbb  dol  Ibaby.'&quot;  \xc2\xabwelt;  I  don't  know  1f  you've  ever  marched  into  Vuitton  with  a  Vuitton  steamer  trunk  your  back,  huffing  and  pufflng  and  bent  half  double,  but  I  can  tell  you  this,  it  msaskes  you  feel  kind  of  weird.  But  I  sgoped--I!  Just  pretended  I1  wss  kind  of  super-soign\xc3\xa9  woman  mover:  (It's  silly  to  preser  the  old  clich\xc3\xa9s  sbout  roles  andsuch  when  naturalness  and  freedom  a-i  health  are  so  much  better  but  this  time  I  did  throw  my  back  out.)  S  got  8  godd.-.tabls  &quot;in  spite  of  steamer  trunk  because  Stephen  h:  this  absolutely  wizardly  way  with  the  V.  headwalters,  and  w  ordared  our-ow-r  yer  pecisal-  together  drink,  nitroglycerin  and  sods  (because  of  Stephen's  really  absolutely  unique  condition--he's  the  only  person  in  the  whole  world  who  has  it!),  and  I  was  beginning  to  T  &amp;1.  1  glow-y  and  camfcr+able  exespt     " b"that  my  back  was  positively  ruined,  because  of  carrying  the  steamer  trunk.  &quot;Why  are  you  twitching  like  that?&quot;  Stephen  asked  (a  tiny  bit  crossly,  I  thought)  and  I  explained  to  him  that  my  back  burt.  Usually  he  is  the  living  soul  of  compassion--really  sweet--but  this  time  all  he  said  was  &quot;If  you  didn't  spend  all  vour  time  reading  that  damned     third  word  in  your  sentences,  vou'd  have  a  strong,  healthy  back,  just  like  your  mother  did.  I'm  going  to  get  you  a  washtub  and  a  washboard  for  your  birthday.  I  bet  you  don't  even  know  what  a  washboard  looks  like.  I  bet  you  never  even  saw  one  outside  of  &amp;a  jug  band.&quot;  (I  thought  that  bit  about  my  italicizing  words  was  a  little  bit  cruel,  because  he  does  it  too--all  the  time!)  But  I  justgave  him  a  quick  grin  and  an  impish,  sort  of  [REDACTED]  look,  and  asked  if  I  could  have  another  N  &amp;  S.  &quot;You  picking  up  the  bloody  tab?&quot;  he  asked,  a  teeny  bit  viciously,  I  thought.  But  then  I  remembered  that  men  have  their  little  moods,  just  like  women,  and  that  Stephen  is  in  very  heavy  trouble  at  the  office  right  now,  due  to  that  nasty  5.E.G.  investigation,  just  because  he  tipped  off  a  couple  of  hundred  clients  about  the  receivership  ahead  of  time,  but  for  heaven's  sake,  he  was  just  try-  ing  to  be  loyal  to  his  friends.  So  I  just  said  offhandedly,  &quot;Sure.&quot;  But  then  he  reached  over  and  be-  gan  to  unlatch  the  steamer  trunk,  which  was  still  standing  by  the  table,  and  I  noticed  that  all  the  waiters  and  captains  and  busboys  had  begun  to  gather  around,  to  see  what  was  inside!  (I  guess  their  curlosity  was  normal  and  healthy  and  lovable,  but  it  made  me  feeljust  the  lesst  most  microcosmle  bit  itchy!)  And  what  was  inside  you  would  nevaor  fathom  in  a  thousand  years'!  It  was  another  woman!  &quot;Get  up,&quot;  Stephen  said  to  me.  &quot;This  is  27  Elberta  and  I  want  to  sit  next  to  her.&quot;  Well,  I  almost  crumbled  into  matchsticks,  as  you  can  imagine,  but  I  just  acted  natural  as  hard  as  I  could,  and  that  was  easier  because  she  was  wearing  the  most  peculiar  creation  you  could  possibly  conjure  up  in  your  wildest  dreams--I  think  it's  called  a  housedress.  I  nearly  died  laughing,  inside  of  course  (outside  I  was  still  being  natural  and  healthy,  even  though  my  back  was  giving  me  pure  unshirted  hell),  and  even  smiled  at  the  thought  that  my  carrying  the  steamer  trunk  into  the  restaurant  on  my  back  hadn't  emasculated  Stephen  one  little  bit--as  a  matter  of  fact  he  was  sort  of  feeling  Elberta's  handbag,  which  looked  like  it  was  made  of  an  old  armadillo  shell  or  something,  in  &amp;a  manner  that  was  downright  lascivious.  Well,  I  must  admit  that  I  was  in  the  most  infinitesimal  bit  of  a  twit,  so  I  dipped  into  my  Vuitton  and  brought  out  my  copy  of  the  current  issue  of  the  magazine  to  see  if  the  advice  columns  had  anything  &amp;  propos,  if  there  was  any  strong,  natural,  lovable  way  to  deal  with  this  rather  hideous  situation,  but  all  of  the  writers  seemed  to  be  preoccupied  with  the  problems  of  unmarried  mothers  this  month,  and  that  wasn't  my  problem,  and  Stephen  was  talking  with  Elberta  in  low  tones  that  I  couldn't  hear,  although  I  tried,  so  I  reached  over  and  patted  Elberta  on  the  hand,  the  hand  that  was  curled  around  one  of  our  drinks,  and  ssked  her  in  the  nicest  possible  way  what  magazine  she  read,  what  magazine  she  identified  with,  what  magazinedefined  her,  because  of  course  I  was  insanely  curious  about  how  she  achieved  that  really  phony  wholesome-  ness  that  she  exuded  all  over  stephen  like  a  web  or  something.  She  just  looked  at  me  and  said,  &quot;Scientific  American,  dearie.&quot;"