 THE  STORY  OF  &quot;T&quot;  (A  ConrEssion  )  ON'T  call  me  a  litterbug;  the  word  is  demeaning.  Make  it  litterphile,  I  am  a  litterphile,  and  don't  waste  your  pity  on  me.  I  en-  joy  my  habit,  and  I've  accepted  what  I  am.  I  can't  use  my  real  name,  of  course,  because  we  litterphiles  are  the  most  despised  members  of  our  society.  T'll  call  myself  &quot;T.&quot;  Summer  is  &quot;T'  's  season,  and  the  impending  joy  of  full  summer  is  almost  more  than  I  can  bear.  But  wAy  must  I  strew,  I  hear  you  asking.  What  is  go-  ing  on  inside  my  trashy  little  mind?  To  put  it  simply,  a  clean,  uncluttered  landscape  does  not  look  as  lovely  to  me  as  one  randomly  strewn  (O  sweet  disorder!  )  with  Kleenex,  old  T  arey-  ton  packs,  empty  Falstaff  cans,  empty  Pepsi  cans,  empty  Alpo  Beef  Chunk  cans,  empty  Big  John's  Beans  'n  Fixins  cans,  half-empty  Heinz  ketchup  bot-  tles,  discarded  boxes  of  Hunt's  Skil-  let  Stroganoff,  a  torn-open  packet  of  Kellogg's  Froot  Loops,  a  spent  Midas  muffler,  some  tattered  sheets  of  Reyn-  olds  quilted  foil,  and  a  scattering  of  snowy-white,  indestructible  Hot  'n  Cold  insulated  drinking  cups.  To  a  lit-  terphile,  a  spotless,  dull  Arcadian  scene  does  not  compare  with  a  bosky  dell  astir  and  agleam  with  glorious  liter-litter  in  all  its  fading  sheen  and  shine,  litter  with  its  poignant,  concomitant  souvenirs  of  recent  habitation  and  consumption.  Ah,  the  stories  that  trash  could  tell,  could  it  but  speak!  Even  more  important  than  the  aes-  thetics  of  litter  is  the  private  frisson,  the  simple,  mind-blowing  ecstasy,  arising  from  the  act  of  disposal  itself.  Yes,  kill  a  six-pack  of  Dr.  Pepper  or  a  couple  of  giant  half-quart  cans  of  Ballan-  tine  (never  mind  the  taste,  for  the  container  is  more  important  than  the  thing  contained)  while  tooling  down  the  Thruway  or  up  [REDACTED],  and  then  brisk-  ly  throw  the  empties  out  into  the  landscape.  That  sudden  interior  rush,  that  unmistakable  release  of  joy,  is  a  post-consummation  devoutly  to  be  wished.  If  you  have  not  tried  this,  you  will  never  understand  what  it  is  to  be  a  confirmed,  unashamed  litterphile,  nor  will  you  sense  the  power  with  which  litter  holds  us  in  its  grasp.  If  you  are  determined  to  get  into  this  scene,  do  not  waste  your  timeby  furtively  joy-popping  single  empties  into  the  roadside  weeds  and  bushes.  Try  instead  the  more  demanding  up-  ward  delivery  that  will  get  the  can  over  your  roof  and  into  your  slipstream,  so     that  it  will  clank  and  dance  on  the  highway  and,  with  any  luck,  bounce  into  the  radiator  of  the  car  behind  you.  If  this  turns  out  to  be  a  police  car,  so  much  the  better,  for,  as  all  litterphiles  know,  the  joy  of  littering  is  synergis-  tically  compounded  by  its  illegality.  It  is  the  hovering,  attendant  five-hundred-  dollar  fine  (and/or  six  months  in  jail)  that  provides  the  ultimate  sensual  fillip  to  our  habit.  (Litterphiles  dread  the  often  proposed  legalization  of  litter,  an-  ticipating  that  it  would  destroy  the  beautiful  guilty  high.)  I  am  a  city  man,  confined  by  habita-  tion  to  dull  urban  littering.  Soon,  though,  vacation  time  will  be  here,  and  before  me  lies  a  pristine  continental  pan-  orama-  Yellowstone  National  Park!  Gettysburg!  The  Olympic  Peninsula!  The  Great  Smokies!  Lake  Winni-  pesaukee!  The  Canadian  Rockies'-  awaiting  this  litterphile's  unstinting  hand.  True  satori  (the  natural  high)  is  achieved  when  one  litters  pure  wilder-  ness-those  trackless  places,  even  more  rare,  that  have  never  been  graced  by  a  bright  red-and-yellow  Fritos  bag,  a  Hostess  Twinkies  wrapper,  a  gossamer  Baggie.  When  executed  in  the  com-  pany  of  a  lifelong  conservationist  or  wilderness  freak,  the  littering  experi-  ence  can  only  be  described  as  holy  and  blissful  and  pure.  Only  those  who  have  momentarily  achieved  this  Seventh  Chakra  of  the  litterphile  can  know  that  of  which  I  speak.     I  SEE  you  looking  at  me  strangely.  You  edge  away.  Is  this  madness?  Is  poor  &quot;T&quot;  in  the  grip  of  a  horrible  per-  versity?  No,  friend.  If  you  would  but  admit  it,  this  dull,  sublunar  landscape  of  ours  is  in  need  of  brightening  up.  The  strobe  glint  of  aluminum  foil;  the  see-  through  gloss  of  Pliofilm;  the  shards  of  various-colored  bot-  tles,  with  the  smoggy  sunlight  playing  on  their  surfaces;  the  carnival  hues  and  eye-catching  lettering  that  highly  paid  creative  designers  at  Gen-  eral  Foods  and  the  American  Can  Com-  pany  have  labored  so  hard  to  bring  you-all  these  add  splash  and  dash  to  the  unremitting  green  of  plant  photo-  synthesis  and  the  unforgiving  blue  of  the  American  summer  sky,  Who  among  us  is  not  moved  by  the  rich,  Iroquois  ochre  of  a  rusting  old-style  tin  can  thought-  fully  left  for  us  by  some  pioneer  litterer  of  long  ago?  Who  can  honestly  claim  that  a  red-white-and-blue  Cracker  Jack  box,  with  that  saucy  little  sailor  saluting  us  from  its  flank,  looks  less  beautiful  here  beside  the  front  steps  of  Monticello  than  still  another  nowhere  host  of  golden  daffodils?  If  you  are  so  pinched  in  spirit  as  to  require  a  rationale  before  you  step  upon  the  path  of  pure  bliss  and  free-  dom,  you  should  know  that  there  are  valid  ecological  reasons  for  littering.  The  very  latest  solid-waste  studies  in-  dicate  that  trash  is  something  we  can  ignore  at  our  peril.  For  example,  the  dyes  in  Pall  Mall  cigarette  packs  and  M  &amp;  M  candy  wrappers  and  the  glue  in  Hi-Ho  cracker  boxes  (to  name  but  a  few  substances)  play  a  crucial  role  in  reconstituting  the  soil  and  water  that  are  vital,  in  turn,  to  the  growth  of  bristlecone  pine,  saguaro  cactus,  maidenhair  fern,  freshwater  kelp,  mesquite  grass,  day  lilies,  Indian  pipe,  Queen  Anne's  lace,  jimsonweed,  and  other  botanical  clich\xc3\xa9s  of  our  national  countryside.  As  for  public  health,  a  long-suppressed  eight-year  study  at  the  United  States  Hyperhygienic  Station  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  shows  without  a  doubt  that  a  test  group  of  2,187  federal  pris-  oners  who  volunteered  to  drink  severe-  ly  polluted  water  from  the  Insalubra  Creek  for  a  period  of  ninety  days,  in  comparison  with  a  control  group  that  drank  pure  bottled  mountain-spring  water,  suffered  a  seventy-nine  per  cent  lower  incidence  of  goitre,  grunginess,  Jacksonian  frenzy,  biliary  eclampsia,  pyorrhea,  samadhi,  Riggs'  disease,  and  tennis  elbow!  (How  do  you  like  that,  all  you  Health,  Education,  and  Wel-  fare  commissars?  &quot;T&quot;  will  not  be  si-  lenced  !  )  We  confirmed,  out-in-the-open  lit-  terphiles  have  come  to  know  our  en-  emies.  They  include  street-sweepers,  anti-litter  freaks,  minimal-packaging  food-co-op  youngsters,  Zen  Buddhists,  Audubon  Society  misfits,  anal-retentive  forest  rangers,  and  Clean  Up  Our  City  Committees.  The  police  who  has-  sle  us  we  merely  pity,  since  they  are  but  misguided  servants  of  the  trash-  phobic  majority.  Yes,  jail  is  our  com-  mon  lot,  my  friends-jail  and  the  derision  and  contempt  of  the  most  hardened  members  of  prison  society.  Bravely  we  ignore  their  catcalls,  sto-  ically  we  stand  their  blows  and  kicks.  Smiling,  we  hold  out  our  trashy  hands  and  cry,  &quot;Brothers,  wherefore  do  ye  put  us  down?  Are  we  all  not  litterers  under  the  skin?&quot;  Yes,  it  is  true.  Look  into  yourself  before  you  scorn  your  semblable,  your  &quot;T.&quot;  Litter  has  been  with  us  since  the  dawn  of  civilization;  it  will  not  just  &quot;go  away.&quot;  Some  of  the  greatest  fig-  ures  in  history  were  lifelong  litter-  " b" philes:  Pliny  the  Elder  (first  to  litter  the  Forum  ),  Socrates  (&quot;the  life  which  is  unlittered  is  not  worth  living&quot;),  Ab\xc3\xa9lard,  Shakespeare  (&quot;that  unlittered,  small-knowing  soul  ...&quot;),  Leonardo  (who  tossed  salami-sandwich  crusts  out  of  his  studio  window  in  Milan),  By-  ron,  Guy  Fawkes,  the  members  of  the  Boston  Tea  Party,  Joseph  Conrad  (who  threw  orange  peelings  out  of  his  porthole  every  morning  during  a  three  months'  passage  between  Liverpool  and  Socrabaja),  Tolstoy,  Henry  Ford,  and  Warren  G.  Harding  (who  walled  off  a  section  of  the  [REDACTED]  Wing  of  the  White  House,  into  which  he  threw  old  news-  papers,  cigar  butts,  hot  dogs,  worn-out  garters,  playing  cards,  chewing-gum  wrappers,  and  AlbertB.  Fall).  T'  wo  present  members  of  the  Su-  preme  Court  are  closet  litterphiles,  and  itis  they  we  shall  look  to  when  our  current  battle  for  the  basic  human  rights  of  litterphiles  goes  to  the  high-  est  tribunal  in  the  land.  We  are  com-  ing  out  of  hiding  now.  We  assert  only  the  fundamental  human  right-the  need-to  be  trashy.  We  wish  to  live  our  lives  without  harassment.  We  are  asking  for  special  parks  and  green  belts,  where  we  can  litter  to  our  hearts'  con-  tent.  God  made  litter.  Litter  is  part  of  the  Universal  Plan.  Litter  is  cute.  "