b"RERUNS  OF  THE  MIND  N  the  morning  when  I  am  shavy-  I  ing,  I  often  think  of  Hagerstown,  [REDACTED].  Years  ago,  I  read  an  obituary  in  the  Times  recalling  the  vital  trivia  of  a  man  from  Hagerstown.  He  was  re-  membered  chiefly  for  laboratory  tests  he  had  once  conducted  for  a  shaving-  cream  company.  The  results  of  his  findings  established  the  fact  that  it  takes  at  leastsixty  seconds  for  a  man's  whiskers  to  absorb  the  moisture  in  a  shaving  cream.  Since  then  I  always  wait  sixty  sec-  onds  before  starting  to  shave.  At  that  hour  of  the  day  it  seems  a  long  time.  I  usually  spend  it  thinking  of  Ha-  gerstown.  HE43616e616461VER  I  see  the  name  Bauer  &amp;  Black  on  a  roll  of  ad-  hesive  tape,  I  invariably  think  of  New  Year's  Eve,  1936.  I  was  living  on  the  top  floor  ofa  shabby  hotel  on  North  Wabash  and  East  Erie  Street  in  [REDACTED].  On  New  Year's  Eve,  I  had  exactly  thirty-two  cents  with  which  to  ring  out  the  old  and  ring  in  the  new.  I  decided  to  go  to  a  bar  called  Ballantine's  on  North  Rush  Street  and  buy  two  beers  and  nurse  them  along  from  eleven  o'clock  to  midnight.  Beer  was  a  dime  a  glass,  and  it  would  leave  me  a  third  dime  for  a  somewhat  prodi-  gal  tip.  As  I  took  my  first  carefully  meas-  ured  sip,  someone  slapped  me  on  the  back  and  greeted  me  like  a  long-lost  friend.  He  proved  to  bea  familiar  face  and  not  all  that  long  lost.  About  five  years  before,  we  had  sat  next  to  each  other  in  a  history-lecture  section  of  some  three  hundred  students  in  Bas-  com  Hall,  at  the  Universityof  Wis-  consin.  He  insisted  that  I  be  a  guest  at  his  table  and  meet  his  friends-three  sales-  men  from  Bauer  &amp;  Black  and  their  wives.  They  were  drinking  an  eclectic  array  of  the  house's  sugary  specialties  and  not  nursing  a  thing  but  potential  hangovers.  When  I  got  up  to  leave-it  was  two  hours  into  1937-my  by  now  intimate  college  chum  implored  me  to  get  in  touchwith  him  soon  for  another  glori-  ous  night  on  the  town.  &quot;Call  me  at  the  office  anytime,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Bauer  &amp;  Black.  When  you  think  of  me,  think  of  bandages.&quot;  As  we  walked  toward  the  door  I  took  him  aside  and  said,  &quot;I  can  remem-  ber  Bauer  &amp;  Black  all  right,  but  the  fact  is,  forthe  life  of  me  I  can't  re-  member  your  name.&quot;  He  roared  with  laughter  and  told  me  his  name.  And  then  he  added,  &quot;I  got  to  admit-it's  been  bothering  me  all  night-I  can't  remember  your  name,  either.&quot;  Itold  him  and  went  out  to  face  the  winds  of  East  Erie  Street,  where  I  hoped  the  Hotel  Delano  (since  torn  down  )  was  still  standing.  Once  in  a  while  I  try  to  conjure  up  his  name  but  to  no  avail,  and  to  compound  the  obsession  I  now  think  of  him  when  I  see  a  Band-Aid,  which  is  made  by  Johnson  &amp;  Johnson.  I  can't  even  remember  the  name  of  the  his-  tory  course.  N  February  2,  1922,  I  carved  my  name  on  the  side  of  the  barn  of  the  farm  where  I  was  raised,  near  Gladstone,  [REDACTED]  (now  called  Maplewood  ),  a  suburb  of  St.  Paul.  Be-  neath  my  name  I  inscribed  the  numer-  als  2/2/22  and  cut  a  finger  doing  it.  I  felt  part  of  historyat  that  moment,  because  I  had  figured  out  in  my  sev-  enth-grade  arithmetic  class  that  it  would  be  one  of  the  few  times  in  the  twentieth  century  when  a  man  could  usethe  same  numerals  for  the  day,  month,  and  year.  The  first  times  had  been  1/1/11  and  1/11/11.  After  2/2/22  and  2/22/22,  the  occasions  would  be  limited  to  once  every  eleven  years.  It  was  a  bitterly  cold  day  and  get-  ting  dark  when  I  finished.  As  I  went  into  the  house  for  supper,  I  made  a  se-  cret  vow  that  I  would  return  on  3/3/33  and  add  those  dates  below  the  first.  P  On  3/3/33,  I  was  in  an  empty  cafeteria  in  the  basement  of  the  drama-  school  theatre  at  Yale  University  (the  cafeteria  has  long  been  defunct),  sitting  around  a  table  rehearsing  a  one-act  play  written  and  directed  by  Betty  Smith  (now  dead),  who  ten  years  later  wrote  &quot;A  Tree  Grows  in  Brooklyn.&quot;  I  noticed  the  date  on  a  calendar  on  the  wall.  I  stared  at  it  forthe  rest  of  the  rehearsal  period,  and  Betty  asked  me  if     37  there  was  something  I  didn't  like  about  her  play.  Eleven  years  to  go  and  promises  to  keep.  On  4/4/44,  I  was  working  as  a  civilian  laborer-I  had  been  classified  4-F  by  the  Army-helping  to  build  a  wing  on  the  guardhouse  at  Mitchell  Field  on  Long  Island.  One  day  I  saw  Lionel  Stander,  the  actor,  in  the  uni-  form  of  a  private,  walk  past  the  guard-  house.  I  had  seen  him  fairly  recently  in  a  play,  and  for  some  reason  seeing  him  on  that  muddy  ficld  reminded  me  of  the  date.  Eleven  years  more.  On  5555,  I  happened  to  be  on  my  way  to  Los  Angeles.  I  have  been  to  Los  Angeles  many  times,  but  I  have  difficulty  distinguishing  one  trip  from  another.  What  I  always  do  remember  is  that  shortly  after  you  leave  the  air-  port  someone,  taking  it  for  granted  you  have  not  been  there  before,  will  point  to  a  cemetery  to  the  right  of  the  freeway  and  tell  you  where  Al  Jolson  is  buried.  A  taxi-driver  on  the  freeway  was  telling  me  all  the  facts  about  Al  Jol-  son's  tomb  when  I  remembered  the  date.  On  6/6/66,  I  was  lying  on  an  analyst's  couch  in  a  town  house  on  Fifth  [REDACTED]  near  Eighty-sixth  Street  (since  razed  to  be  replaced  by  an  apart-  ment  building),  when  the  date  came  to  my  mind.  It  struck  me  so  forcibly  that  I  never  said  a  word  for  the  re-  maining  twenty  minutes  of  the  session.  But  out  on  the  street,  standing  in  front  of  the  Stanhope  Hotel,  I  made  a  firm  resolution.  I  would  call  North-  west  Airlines  and  make  a  reservation,  if  they  would  accept  it,  for  7/7/77.  I  would  then  inscribe  the  date  under  the  by  now  probably  almost  obliterated  2/2/22  on  the  side  of  that  barn:  fifty-  five  years,  five  months,  and  five  days  later.  I  didn't  call  Northwest  Airlines.  I  knew  what  the  girl  would  say-it  was  against  company  policy  to  accept  reser-  vations  that  far  in  advance.  By  the  time  I  was  ready  to  dial  the  number,  I  had  rehearsed  the  conversation  in  so  many  different  ways  that  I  was  defeated.  By  1969,  there  was  no  longer  any  need  to  remind  myself  of  my  resolu-  tion.  The  house  and  barn  were  sold  to  some  neighbors  with  four  children.  The  first  thing  they  did  was  to  tear  down  the  barn.  In  its  place  they  built  a  two-car  garage.  ECENTLY,  William  Redfield,  the  actor  (he  was  known  as  Billy  when  he  was  a  juvenile),  wrote  a  letter  " b"38  to  the  drama  section  of  the  Sunday  Times,  paying  his  respect  to  Wally  Cox,  who  died  at  the  age  of  forty-eight  this  past  winter.  He  said  that  Wally  had  once  taken  another  actor-I  suspect  it  was  William  Redfield  himself-on  the  back  of  his  motorcycle  all  the  way  from  mid-Manhattan  to  a  roadside  meadow  in  Rockland  County  in  order  to  show  him  the  difference  between  yarrow  and  Queen  Anne's  lace.  He  alsosaid  Wally  had  been  a  kind  of  father  confessor  to  chickadees.  I  will  never  see  a  yarrow,  or  Queen  Anne's  lace,  or  a  chickadee  without  thinking  of  Wally  Cox.  And  remembering  Billy  Redfield  for  remembering  him.  [REDACTED]  rainy  night  more  than  fifteen  years  ago,  I  was  sitting  at  the  bar  of  the  Copper  Rail,  a  hangout  for  jazz  musicians  (now  the  site  of  a  mini-cine-  ma  for  pornographic  films)  on  Broad-  way  near  Forty-ninth.  Charlie  Shavers,  who  was  playing  magnificent  trumpet  at  the  Metropole  across  the  street  (it  was  later  converted  to  a  strip  joint),  came  in  for  a  drink  between  sets.  He  looked  unusually  dejected  for  a  man  whose  drooping  eyelids  made  him  look  lugubrious  even  at  the  best  of  times.  Somebody  asked  him  what  was  wrong,  and  he  said  alousy  bastard  had  stolen  the  mouthpiece  for  his  trumpet.  It  was  his  favorite  mouthpiece.  He  had  used  it  on  all  his  record  dates  for  more  than  ten  years.  That  afternoon  he  had  gone  to  Manny's,  a  musical  sup-  ply  store  on  Forty-eighth  near  Sixth  (since  moved  to  make  way  for  an  of-  fice  building),  to  pick  up  a  new  mouth-  piece,  but  his  lips  couldn't  get  used  to  it.  He  sloshed  down  his  drink  without  saying  another  word  and  went  back  across  the  street  in  the  drenching  rain  to  continue  the  job.  I  followed  a  while  later.  He  still  sounded  great  to  me.  I  could  see  that  Charlie,  who  died  not  very  long  ago,  was  unhappy  about  the  whole  thing.  He  kept  shaking  his  head  in  bemused  resignation  every  time  Al  &quot;  the  other  men  on  the  narrow  catwalk  of  a  platform  took  over  for  a  few  ex-  plosive  blasts  of  their  own.  Ioften  think  of  Charlie  Shavers  when  I  see  a  basset  hound-a  basset  hound  staring  into  his  drink  at  one  end  of  the  old  Copper  Rail's  bar.  IN  the  summer  of  1927,  the  year  I  left  high  school,  I  was  hitchhiking  up  the  Shenandoah  [REDACTED]  in  [REDACTED].  I'm  not  sure  the  word  &quot;hitchhiking&quot;  had  even  entered  the  vocabulary;  it  was  considered  an  impractical  fad  that  would  soon  pass  away.  When  I  crossed  the  [REDACTED]  border,I  headed  west  on  what  was  still  referred  toas  the  Cumberland  [REDACTED].  I  hoped  to  pick  up  the  Yellowstone  [REDACTED]  somewhere  out  in  [REDACTED]  or  Illinois  and  find  my  way  home.  Interstate  highways  were  unknown  in  those  days,  but  a  few  well-travelled  roads  were  marked  with  painted  bands  around  the  tele-  phone  poles.  The  Yellowstone  [REDACTED]  was  one  of  these.  It  crossed  Minne-  sota  and  eventually  led  to  Yellowstone  Park.  The  evening  and  darkness  came  on  suddenly,  and  I  found  myself  stranded  without  a  ride  and  no  place  to  sleep.  Usually  I  slept  in  haystacks,  and  some-  times  I  would  ask  at  a  farmhouse  if  I  could  sleep  in  the  barn.  On  this  night  I  was  near  neither  haystack  nor  farm.  Then  I  realized  there  was  a  detour  around  that  stretch  of  the  road  because  of  new  construction.  In  the  dark  I  made  out  the  shapes  ofa  steamroller  and  several  trucks  left  for  the  night  in  the  middle  of  the  highway.  I  tried  sleeping  in  the  cab  of  one  of  the  trucks,  but  it  was  too  cold.  How-  ever,  the  steamroller  had  its  firebox  banked  with  ashes  forthe  night  and  the  coals  were  still  glowing.  I  crawled  into  the  narrow  space  between  the  operator's  seat  and  the  coal  box  and  soon  fell  asleep.  At  six-thirty  the  next  morning  I  was  awakened  by  the  man  who  ran  the  steamroller.  He  got  there  early  in  order  to  renew  the  fire  and  work  up  a  head  of  steam  before  the  other  men  came  to  work  at  seven.  He  tapped  me  on  the  shoulder,  and  when  I  looked  into  his  face  I  thought  for  sure  I  was  being  ar-  rested.  Instead,  he  spoke  like  a  wor-  ried  father  addressing  his  son.  &quot;Where  are  your  kin?&quot;  he  asked  me.  I  told  him  in  [REDACTED],  but  it  made  little  sense  to  him.  He  found  a  pail  and  drew  hot  water  from  the  steamroller  and  told  me  to  wash  up.  There  was  a  small  mirror  in  his  toolbox,  and  he  showed  me  my  face.  It  was  black  with  " b"coal  dust.  He  took  an  egg  sandwich  from  his  lunch  bucket  and  insisted  I  have  it  for  breakfast.  I  asked  him  where  I  was,  and  he  said  about  twenty  miles  west  of  Hagers-  town,  [REDACTED].  About  once  a  year  I  forget  the  man  who  tested  shaving  cream  and  think  about  that  other  man  and  his  steam-  roller  instead.  OCCASIONALLY,  while  I'm  putting  on  my  socks  in  the  morning,  the  image  of  the  young  Marlon  Brando  pops  into  my  mind.  When  he  first  came  to  New  York  in  the  early  forties,  his  agents  were  Liebling-Wood,  whose  of-  fices  were  at  551  Fifth  [REDACTED],  the  Fred  F.  French  Building,  with  its  golden  archway  and  revolving  door  (still  intact).  The  telephone  number  was  Vanderbilt  6-3714.  One  blustery  morning  in  March,  I  was  waiting  in  the  outer  office  to  see  Miss  Wood,  and  Marlon  Brando  was  waiting  restlessly  to  see  Mr.  Lieb-  ling.  When  Mr.  Liebling  finally  came  out  of  the  inner  office,  he  noticed  that  the  youthful  actor  was  not  wear-  ing  socks.  &quot;What's  the  matter,  kid,  you  don't  have  any  socks?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  can't  send  you  to  the  Wiman  office  looking  like  that.&quot;  Marlon  looked  him  coolly  in  the  eye  and  said,  ''You  tol'  me  to  get  here  in  a  hurry,  didn'  you?&quot;  N  the  fall  and  winter  of  1940,  my  wife  and  I  lived  in  a  cabin  on  White  Top  Mountain,  near  Konna-  rock,  [REDACTED].  The  summit  could  only  be  reached  by  a  private  toll  road,  and  the  man  atthe  gatehouse  who  collected  the  tolls  was  named  Hode  Haga.  He  said  his  actual  name  was  William  Em-  ory  Haga,  but  everyone  in  Grayson  County  knew  him  as  Hode.  &quot;Hode,&quot;  he  told  us  one  evening,  was  a  name  he  had  given  himself  as  a  child.  He  explained  that  his  &quot;granny-wom-  an&quot;  had  rocked  him  on  her  knee  and  pretended  it  was  an  unruly  horse.  As  he  clung  to  her  apron  to  hold  on,she  kept  urging  him  not  to  fall  off.  &quot;Hode  'em,  boy,  hode  'em,  boy,&quot;  she  seemed  to  be  saying.  When  some  visiting  cous-  ins  asked  him  his  name,  he  said  it  was  Hode.  Itold  him  when  I  was  that  age  I  thought  my  name  was&quot;No,  No,&quot;  be-  cause  the  first  words  I  remembered  were  those  of  my  mother  saying,  &quot;No,  no,  don't  touch.&quot;  When  a  visiting  min-  ister  had  asked  me  my  name,  I  said  it  was  No,No.  Hode  always  grinned  broadly  when  he  called  me  No,  No  after  that.  It  was  our  bond  of  understanding.  One  day  he  told  us  the  name  &quot;Haga&quot;  was  derived  from  a  German  family  named  Hager  who  had  settled  in  [REDACTED]  around  1737.  He  showed  us  a  cherry-wood  chest  in  the  back  bed-  room  of  his  cabin,  with  the  original  name  and  the  date  1763  on  it,  He  had  no  idea  when  or  why  it  had  been  changed  to  Haga.  He  said  the  town  of  Hagerstown,  [REDACTED],  had  been  named  for  his  family.  -ARNOLD  SUNDGAARD  Watergate:  At  this  moment,  the  Con-  gress  has  a  special  bipartisan  committee,  chaired  by  Senator  Ervin  (N.C.)  to  get  at  the  facts  of  the  Watergate  affair.  Needless  to  say,  the  whole  thing  is  most  disgraceful.  Once  the  blame  has  been  fixed  on  the  guilty  ones,  I  hope  that  the  people  of  this  country  will  give  greater  emphasis  on  electing  those  who  truly  de-  port  themselves  with  honesty  and  integ-  rity.-From  &quot;Reports  from  W  ashington&quot;  newsletter  by  Representative  Phillip  Bur-  ton,  5th  District,  [REDACTED]  Gosh,  we  hadn't  thought  about  de-  portation.  "