 LOVE  DAY,  1945*\xc2\xb0  Slowly  the  ancient  seas,  Those  black,  predestined  waters  rise  Lisping  and  calm  before  my  eyes,  And  [REDACTED]  rises  out  of  foam  A  state  of  mind  in  which  by  twos  All  beasts  browse  among  barns  and  apple  trees  As  in  their  earliest  peace,  and  the  dove  comeshome.  -Anthony  Hecht.  I.  MINUS  ONE  1.  Aver  Saywarp  Snow  Imprimis,  in  her  shower  in  Quincy  Street,  The  lady  vanishes  and  reappears,  Venusian,  in  an  ocean  spume  of  steam,  And  stands,  material,  on  her  bathmat-  Pink,  white,  and  twenty-three-and  dries  her  feet.  Naked,  she  to  her  naked  face  applies  A  thin  clay  skin,  and  to  her  bare  green  eyes  Brown  underlines,  which  will  italicize  Her  ultimate  impression.  A  mute  rose  Buds  on  her  noiseless  lips,  and  an  Arp\xc3\xa9ge  Of  scent  spans  all  her  octaves.  Into  clothes  She  skin-dives  skillfully,  emerging  whole  And  foliate  in  a  war-torn  world  whose  leaves  Too  often  stem  from  embarkation,  as  Did  Charley  Snow's.  (Please  figure  to  yourself  Particulars  of  severance  in  the  rain  In  terminal  night  light  beside  the  green  Sleeper,  Shoshone  Falls.  Enough.)  Now  grass,  Now  flesh  widow,  combatant  unaware  In  unknown  actions,  Averil  descends  Her  meat-and-mothball-smelling  stairs,  which  end  In  many  mailboxes.  The  glass  door  gives  On  a  dank  night  of  Germinal,  the  last  of  March.  2.  MarsHart  SCcHOEN  Schoen,  pale  and  flued  in  black,  girt  in  a  white  Bath  towel,  sacks  his  tottering  chest  of  drawers  In  search  of  underwear.  Big  books  fall  down:  Thick  Skeat  and  Onions,  gamy  Partridge,  firm  And  appetizing  Whiting,  solid  Flesch.  Once  natatorially  attired,  he  now  Dons  don's  apparel:  a  black  flannel  suit  From  Hunter  Haig,  pink  shirt,  illicit  knit  Tie  bearing  Pudding  colors,  grape-juice  shoes,  And  is  the  utter  lecturer,  complete  As  any  man  can  be  at  twenty-two.  He  smokes  a  Raleigh  standing  and  rereads  A  hortatory  letter  full  of  grief,  Foreknowledge,  and  commercial  wisdom,  in  An  old  man's  unskilled  hand,  on  his  old  man's  Dry-cleaning  letterhead  from  Bedford  Ave.  (&quot;Spotting  Our  Specialty&quot;).  Immaculate,  He  slams  the  tin  door  to  his  tutor's  suite-  Lowell  G-46-and  drums  his  steel  Taps  down  the  steps  toward  the  trashy  scent  Of  ice-out  in  the  river,  borne  by  drops  Of  mist  that  frost  his  horny  spectacles.  3.  Snow  Somewhere  off  Okinawa,  a  DD  Makes  for  her  station  as  a  picket  in  The  outer  radar  screen.  The  tumulous  seas  Break  over  her  forepeak  as  her  exec.,  Lieutenant  Snow,  relinquishes  the  conn  And  goes  below  to  take  a  trick  of  sleep  In  his  scant  cabin,  peopled  by  a  framed  Portrait  by  Bachrach  of  his  Averil  In  sweet-girl-graduate  cashmere  and  pearls.  He  sleeps;  the  John  E.  Hagan  alternates  Between  beam-ends;  the  wardroom  fiddles  field  The  anchor-marked  but  errant  coffee  cups;  The  radar's  catcher's  mitt  revolves  above.  Thus  ends  his  Minus  One,  thus  enters  Love  Day,  April  Fool's,  and  covers  Charley  Snow  With  darkness  till  the  winds  of  morning  blow  Like  sirens  in  the  rigging,  and  the  blips  Begin  to  cluster  on  the  scanner's  map.  H.  L~-DAY  1.  MarsHeaut  Schoen,  waking,  files  a  variance  of  light,  And  knows  he  is  not  home;  recalls  last  night,  Embodied  still  in  Averil  at  his  side;  Hears  hunts  of  bells  in  ancient  order  ride  Out  to  enounce  an  Easter  rising  of  A  sun,  a  Son,  a  nation  twenty-nine  Years  earlier,  and,  from  his  lover's  bed,  A  newborn  Schoen,  who,  shaken,  sees  the  pearl  Of  morning  fall  likehail  upon  his  arm,  Upon  the  peeling  windowsill,  upon  The  Ford-strewn  street  outside,  upon  the  Yard  Diminishing  away  in  its  chaste  pale  Beneath  the  magic  realism  of  Its  elms  and  bells,  upon-turn  back-the  arm  Of  Averil  outside  the  covers.  Schoen,  Like  to  his  western  homophone,  completes  His  manifest  destiny:  to  penetrate  The  world  and  person  of  the  earlier  Arrivistes,  keepers  of  the  general  store  Of  fashions,  notions,  drygoods,  who  decline-  Aged  and  inbred-to  elect  a  fine  Young  newcome  to  entrap  their  daughter's  hand,  Their  boits  and  boxes,  language,  life,  and  land.  2.  AvERIL  Revert  to  Averil,  on  whose  eyelids  light  White  arts  of  morning,  on  whose  ears  repeal  The  bells,  rescinding  silence.  Through  a  slim  Slit  fringed  with  lashes,  she  first  apprehends  The  sheet  her  blond  arm  pinions  to  her  side;  Next,  the  next  pillow,  wrinkled,  vacant,  void  Of  its  oppressor;  next,  the  high-hung  room  Alive  with  light  in  a  particulate  Manner,  like  mica;  next,  cut  out  of  black,  But  deckled  white  on  every  edge,  his  back  Framed  in  the  window,  a  flat  souvenir  Of  the  dimensionality  of  night  'That  had  at  her  repose,  a  sharp  unlike  Those  cutouts  of  her  ancestors-enshrined  In  cover  glasses-retrogressing  up  The  stairs  of  her  house  in  West  Cedar  Street.  No,  this  is  a  new  silhouette  for  her;  *  L  -  D  a  y  -  o  r  L  o  v  e  D  a  y  ,  i  n  N  a  v  y  p  a  r  l  a  n  c  e  -  w  a  s  t  h  e  o  f  f  i  c  i  a  l  d  e  s  i  g  n  a  t  i  o  n  f  o  r  t  h  e  d  a  t  e  o  f  t  h  e  O  k  i  n  a  w  a  l  a  n  d  i  n  g  s  ,  A  p  r  i  l  1  ,  1  9  4  5  " b"A  step  beyond  her  east  to  a  frontier  Where  new  men  cross  the  customs  barrier,  Home  in  on  her  flat-lit  retreat,  and  fill  Her  bed  with  new,  kinetic  night.  She  smiles-  Just  testing,  just  conducting  maiden  trials  Of  her  first  real  commission,  of  her  first  Deep-water  venture  out  of  the  milk-white,  Cream-calm  home  harbor-shivers,  and,  awake,  Shams  sleep  and  prays  the  Lord  her  soul  to  take.  IIl.  PLUS  FIVE  1.  Craruey  Dead  in  the  water,  her  main  battery  Out  of  commission,  fire  in  the  engine  room  Making  a  black  smoke  marker  two  miles  high,  The  Hagan  lists  and  settles  for  a  lull  Between  attacks.  The  slap  of  seas,  the  cries  Of  wounded  in  the  wardroom  are  subdued  Again  by  planes  and  guns  (the  forties  sound  Like  fists  upon  tin  tables;  twenties  purr  Like  muffled  air  compressors).  Now  Group  One  Abandons  ship;  a  hundred  treading  men  Watch  in  the  water  as  a  Zero  weaves  Inside  the  guard  of  forties-a  pale  cowl  Blackened  with  oil  and  exhaust,  two  red  Roundels  beneath  the  wingtips-and  explodes  Amidships  as  his  wingman,  well  alight,  Straddles  the  foredeck  and  goes  up.  Fire  flows;  The  ready-ammunition  drums  go  off;  The  weather,  making  up,  sends  a  great  swell  Under  the  ship  and  breaks  her  back.  She  sinks.  Men  swim  in  the  first  silence  in  a  week.  T  wo  hours  pass  and  an  SC  comes  to  glean  Survivors  from  the  waters.  Nearly  two  Hundred  are  rescued,  not  including  Snow.  2.  Aver  Averil,  at  this  selfsame  moment,  bends  Her  dawning  eyes  upon  a  book  of  dawn's  Language,  at  least  in  English:  an  old  green-  Bound  Anglo-Saxon  reader.  Kennings  swim  Before  her  in  the  whale  road,  and  she  kens  The  sense  of  continuity:  the  men  Upon  her  husband's  ship  upon  the  sea;  The  women  here  at  home  in  the  mead  hall;  Their  comforters  upon  that  bed,  asleep  After  love's  labors,  lost  to  the  wide  world  Of  search  and  service  Charley  Snows  are  born,  Not  made,  to  man;  the  waiting  game  of  her  Kind,  womankind,  Penelopes  who  must  Not  fend  off  suitors  in  the  interim  Nor  stand  on  principle,  on  pain  of  dust.  What  love  she  bears  for  that  poor  man  who  sleeps  Within  her  benison,  beneath  the  deeps  Of  purpose  realized,  desire  fulfilled;  She  covers  him  against  the  coming  cold.  IV  PLUS  THIRTY~SEVEN  1.  MarsHmart  Of  that  long,  soft,  and  early-bearing  spring  The  warmest  day  to  date  comes,  carrying  The  rumor  of  the  bells,  too  many  and  strong  43  To  let  the  rumors  of  newsboys  along  Mount  Auburn  Street  be  heard.  The  Lowell  bells-  Unmatched  and  matchless-now  take  up  the  call  With  jingling  thunder  in  an  imbecile  Outburst  of  joy.  Outside,  the  sparrows  in  The  Fly  Club  hedge  sing,  audibly,  &quot;V-E!&quot;  And  many  a  passenger  wears  an  unwilled  grin  To  think  that  that's  all  over.  Marshall  Schoen  Marches,  on  a  more  sombre  errand,  north,  In  his  most  sable  suit  and  most  subdued  Knit  tie,  a  mourning  brassard  almost  on  The  dark  stuff  of  his  sleeve.  Northward  to  grieve-  And  not  as  any  member  of  the  wake,  But  as  a  rank  outsider  on  the  black  Edge  of  disaster's  cloud  of  celebrants-  He  goes,  untempted  by  the  blossoming  Delicatessen  of  a  [REDACTED]  spring,  Unlevitated  by  the  lifting  of  A  six-year  siege,  unmoved  by  his  late  love.  When  he  arrives  at  Christ  Church,  that  slight  frame  Survival  of  an  age  of  easy  grace  Complete  with  shrine-a  Tory  bullet  hole  Preserved  in  the  pine  reliquary  of  Its  thin  gray  sides-he  sees  a  black  pigtail  Of  straggling  mourners  disappearing  in  To  hear  Lieutenant  Snow  absolved  of  sin  Posthumously,  and  coolly  eulogized  In  the  embalming  tones  of  Dr.  Wise,  The  well-loved  Rector.  Standing  on  the  brick  Sidewalk  outside,  arms  folded,  chin  down,  Schoen  Shakes  his  head  once  and  marches  home  again.  2.  AverIL  World's  youngest  widow,  in  R.  H.  Stearns  weeds-  Black  veil,  for  once  acros  s  an  unmar  ke  d  ey  e,  Bla  ck  tailleur  on  a  proper  figure,  black  Pumps  cantilevering  a  perfect  calf-  Twines  black-gloved  hands  as  if,  though  not,  in  prayer,  Drops  chin,  blinks  back  no  shadow  of  a  tear,  Shak  es  her  head  sho  rtly  once,  as  if  to  clear  Inconsolation  out  of  it,  a  nd  dumb  To  Dr.  W  ise's  plashing  wor  ds,  and  numb  To  that  small  throng  of  ill-  and  well-wishers  Who  drill  her  back  w  ith  raveni  ng,  unveiled  E  yes  bright  with  speculati  on,  sits  her  mount-  An  off-white  pew-with  ladylikeness,  whi  ch  Is  one  t  hing  s  he  knows  cold,  and  pers  everes.  What  they  don't  know,  although  they  know  a  lot,  Is  at  the  m  oment  still  her  secret:  what  The  numerous  troop  o  f  non-re  d-let  ter  days  Investing  her  desk  c  alendar  now  says,  Predictabl  y,  is  sure  to  come.  A  crux  Of  time  forms  in  her  mind;  L  ove  Day  re  cedes,  All  i  ts  cross-purposes  self-cancelling;  Today  a  war  and  man  of  war  both  come  To  their  d  ead  e  nd;  tomorrow,  unremarke  d  For  anything,  will  be  a  day  at  home  For  Averil,  beside  herself  with  due  Bills  to  be  honored  ;  for  the  first  time,  too,  Possessed,  perhaps,  of  the  resources  she  Will  need  to  meet  them.  A  recessional  Hymn  strikes  up  in  Christ  Church,  Episcopal.  -L.  E.  SIssmax  "