b"SOME  OF  [REDACTED]  HA  D  BEEN  T  HREATENING  OUR  FRI  END  COLBY  OME  of  us  had  been  threatening  our  friend  Colby  for  a  long  time,  because  of  the  way  he  had  been  behaving.  And  now  he'd  gone  too  far,  so  we  decided  to  hang  him.  Colby  argued  that  just  because  he  had  gone  too  far  (he  did  not  deny  that  he  had  gone  too  far)  did  not  mean  that  he  should  be  subjected  to  hanging.  Going  too  far,  he  said,  was  something  every-  body  did  sometimes.  We  didn't  pay  much  attention  to  this  argument.  We  asked  him  what  sort  of  music  he  would  like  played  at  the  hanging.  He  said  he'dthink  about  it  but  it  would  take  him  a  while  to  decide.  I  pointed  out  that  we'd  have  to  know  soon,  because  Howard,  who  is  a  conductor,  would  have  to  hire  and  rehearse  the  musicians  and  he  couldn't  begin  until  he  knew  what  the  music  was  going  to  be.  Colby  said  he'd  always  been  fond  of  Ives'  Fourth  Symphony.  Howard  said  that  this  was  a  &quot;delaying  tactic&quot;  and  that  everybody  knew  that  the  Ives  was  al-  most  impossible  to  perform  and  would  involve  weeks  of  rehearsal,  and  that  the  size  of  the  orchestra  and  chorus  would  put  us  way  over  the  music  budget.  &quot;Be  reasonable,&quot;  he  said  to  Colby.  Colby  said  he'd  try  to  think  of  something  a  little  less  exacting.  Hugh  was  worried  about  the  word-  ing  of  the  invitations.  What  if  one  of  them  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  au-  thorities?  Hanging  Colby  was  doubtless  against  the  law,  and  if  the  authorities  learned  in  advance  what  the  plan  was  they  would  very  likely  come  in  and  try  to  mess  everything  up.  I  said  that  al-  though  hanging  Colby  was  almost  cer-  tainly  against  the  law,  we  had  a  per-  fect  moral  right  to  do  so  because  he  was  our  friend,  belonged  to  us  in  var-  ious  important  senses,  and  he  had  after  all  gone  too  far.  We  agreed  that  the  invitations  would  be  worded  in  such  a  way  that  the  person  invited  could  not  know  for  sure  what  he  was  being  invited  to.  We  decided  to  refer  to  the  event  as  &quot;An  Event  Involving  Mr.  Colby  Williams.&quot;  A  handsome  script  was  selected  from  a  cata-  logue  and  we  picked  a  cream-colored  paper.  Magnus  said  he'd  see  to  having  the  invita-  tions  printed,  and  won-  dered  whether  we  should  serve  drinks.  Colby  said  he  thought  drinks  would  be  nice  but  was  worried  about  the  expense.  We  told  him  kindly  that  the  expense  didn't  matter,  that  we  were  after  all  his  dear  friends  and  if  a  group  of  his  dear  friends  couldn't  get  together  and  Ao  the  thing  with  a  little  bit  of  \xc3\xa9clat,  why,  what  was  the  world  coming  to?  Colby  asked  if  he  would  be  able  to  have  drinks,  too,  before  the  event.  We  said,  &quot;Certainly.&quot;  The  next  item  of  business  was  the  gibbet.  None  ofus  knew  too  much  about  gibbet  design,  but  [REDACTED],  who  is  an  architect,  said  he'd  look  it  up  in  old  books  and  draw  the  plans.  The  important  thing,  as  far  as  he  recol-  lected,  was  that  the  trapdoor  function  perfectly.  He  said  that  just  rough-  ly,  counting  labor  and  materials,  it  shouldn't  run  us  more  than  four  hun-  dred  dollars.  &quot;GoodGod!&quot;  Howard  said.  He  said  what  was  [REDACTED]  figur-  ing  on,  rosewood?  No,  just  a  good  grade  of  pine,  said.  Victor  asked  if  unpainted  pine  wouldn't  look  kind  of  &quot;raw,&quot;  and  [REDACTED]  replied  that  he  thought  it  could  be  stained  a  dark  walnut  without  too  much  trouble.  I  said  that  although  I  thought  the  whole  thing  ought  to  be  done  really  well,  and  all,  I  also  thought  four  hundred  dollars  for  a  gibbet,  on  top  of  the  expense  for  the  drinks,  invita-  tions,  musicians,  and  everything,  was  a  bit  steep,  and  why  didn't  we  just  use  a  tree-a  nice-looking  oak,  or  some-  thing?  I  pointed  out  that  since  it  was  going  to  be  a  June  hanging  the  trees  would  be  in  glorious  leaf  and  that  not  only  would  a  tree  add  a  kind  of  &quot;natu-  ral&quot;  feeling  but  it  was  also  strictly  traditional,  especially  in  the  West.  To-  mis,  who  had  been  sketching  gibbets  on  the  backs  of  envelopes,  reminded  us  that  an  outdoor  hanging  always  had  to  contend  with  the  threat  of  rain.  Victor  said  he  liked  the  idea  of  doing  it  out-  doors,  possibly  on  the  bank  of  a  river,  but  noted  that  we  would  have  to  hold     39  it  some  distance  from  the  city,  which  presented  the  problem  of  getting  the  guests,  musicians,  etc.,  to  the  site  and  then  back  to  town.  At  this  point  everybody  looked  at  Harry,  who  runs  a  car-and-truck-rent-  al  business.  Harry  said  he  thought  he  could  round  up  enough  limousines  to  take  care  of  that  end  but  that  the  drivers  would  have  to  be  paid.  The  drivers,  he  pointed  out,  wouldn't  be  friends  of  Colby's  and  couldn't  be  ex-  pected  to  donate  their  services,  any  more  than  the  bartender  or  the  musi-  cians.  He  said  that  he  had  about  ten  limousines,  which  he  used  mostly  for  funerals,  and  that  he  could  probably  ob-  tain  another  dozen  by  calling  around  to  friendsof  his  in  the  trade.  He  said  also  that  if  we  did  it  outside,  in  the  open  air,  we'd  betterfigure  on  a  tent  or  awning  of  some  kind  to  cover  at  least  the  principals  and  the  orchestra,  because  if  the  hanging  was  being  rained  on  he  thought  it  would  look  kind  of  dismal.  As  between  gibbet  and  tree,  he  said,  he  had  no  particular  preferences,  and  he  really  thought  that  the  choice  ought  to  be  left  up  to  Colby,  since  it  was  his  hanging.  Colby  said  that  every-  body  went  too  far,  sometimes,  and  weren't  we  being  a  little  Draconian.  Howard  said  rather  sharply  that  all  that  had  already  been  discussed,  and  which  did  he  want,  gibbet  or  tree?  Colby  asked  if  he  could  have  a  firing  squad.  No,  Howard  said,  he  could  not.  How-  ard  said  a  firing  squad  would  just  be  an  ego  trip  for  Colby,  the  blindfold  and  last-cigarette  bit,  and  that  Colby  was  in  enough  hot  water  already  without  try-  ing  to  &quot;upstage&quot;  everyone  with  unnec-  essary  theatrics,  Colby  said  he  was  sor-  ry,  he  hadn't  meant  it  that  way,  he'd  take  the  tree.  Toms  crumpled  up  the  gibbet  sketches  he'd  been  making,  in  disgust.  HEN  the  question  of  the  hang-  man  came  up.  Paul  said  did  we  really  need  a  hangman?  Because  if  we  used  a  tree,  the  noose  could  be  adjusted  to  the  appro-  priate  level  and  Colby  could  just  jump  off  something-a  chair  or  stool  or  something.  Be-  sides,  Paul  said,  he  very  much  doubted  if  there  were  any  free-lance  hangmen  wandering  around  the  country,  now  that  capital  pun-  ishment  has  been  done  away  with  absolutely,  temporarily,  and  that  we'd  probably  have  to  ivi  ce  fp&quot;  " b"  fly  one  in  from  England  or  537061696e  or  one  of  the  [REDACTED]  American  countries,  and  even  if  we  did  that  how  could  we  know  in  advance  that  the  man  was  a  professional,  a  real  hangman,  and  not  just  some  money-hungry  amateur  who  might  bungle  the  job  and  shame  us  all,  in  front  of  everybody?  We  all  agreed  then  that  Colby  should  just  jump  off  something  and  that  a  chair  was  not  what  he  should  jump  off  of,  because  that  would  look,  we  felt,  extremely  tacky-some  old  kitchen  chair  sitting  out  there  under  our  beautiful  tree.  To-  mas,  who  is  quite  modern  in  outlook  and  not  afraid  of  innovation,  proposed  that  Colby  be  standing  on  a  large  round  rubber  ball  ten  feetin  diameter.  This,  he  said,  would  afford  a  sufficient  &quot;drop&quot;and  would  also  roll  out  of  the  way  if  Colby  suddenly  changed  his  mind  after  jumping  off.  He  reminded  us  that  by  not  using  aregular  hang-  man  we  were  placing  an  awful  lot  of  the  responsibility  forthe  success  of  the  affair  on  Colby  himself,  and  that  al-  though  he  was  sure  Colby  would  per-  form  creditably  and  not  disgrace  his  friends  at  the  last  minute,  still,  men  have  been  known  to  get  a  little  irreso-  luteat  times  like  that,  and  the  ten-foot,  round  rubber  ball,  which  could  proba-  bly  be  fabricated  rathercheaply,  would  insure  a  &quot;bang-up&quot;  production  right  down  to  the  wire.  At  the  mention  of  &quot;wire,&quot;  Hank,  who  had  been  silent  all  this  time,  sud-  denly  spoke  up  and  said  he  wondered  if  it  wouldn't  be  better  if  we  used  wire  instead  of  rope-more  efficient  and  in  the  end  kinder  to  Colby,  he  suggested.  Colby  began  looking  a  little  green,  and  I  didn't  blame  him,  because  there  is  something  extremely  distasteful  in  thinking  about  being  hanged  with  wire  instead  of  rope-it  gives  you  sort  of  a  revulsion,  when  you  think  about  it.  I  thought  it  was  really  quite  unpleasant  of  Hank  to  be  sitting  there  talking  about  wire,  just  when  we  had  solved  the  problem  of  what  Colby  was  going  to  jump  off  of  so  neatly,  with  [REDACTED]'s  idea  about  the  rubber  ball,  so  I  hastily  said  that  wire  was  out  of  the  question,  because  it  would  injure  the  tree-cut  into  the  branch  it  was  tied  to  when  Colby's  full  weight  hit  it-and  that  in  these  days  of  increased  respect  for  en- vironment,  we  didn't  want  that,  did  we?  Colby  gave  me  a  grateful  look,  and  the  meeting  broke  up.  Everything  went  off  very  smoothly  on  the  day  of  the  event  (the  music  Colby  finally  picked  was  standard  stuff,  Elgar,  and  it  was  played  very  well  by  Howard  and  his  boys).  It  didn't  rain,  the  event  was  well  attended,  and  we  didn't  run  out  of  Scotch,  or  anything.  The  ten-foot  rubber  ball  had  been  painted  a  deep  green  and  blended  in  well  with  thebucolic  setting.  The  two  things  I  remember  best  about  the  whole  episode  are  the  grateful  look  Colby  gave  me  when  I  said  what  I  said  about  the  wire,  and  the  fact  that  no-  body  has  ever  gone  too  far  again.  BartnELME  A  lusty  blonde  with  an  enormous  make-up  case  monogrammed  Muriel  set  it  on  her  lap  andopened  it.  -From  &quot;Everything  But  a  Husband,&quot;  by  Jean-  ette  Kamins.  The  last  time  we  saw  Maude  Ursula  Rosemary  Irene  Ellen  Laughlin,  she  was  a  mousy  brunette.  "