"THE  SANS  SOUCI  LAUNDERAMA  EOPLE  lead  their  lives  different  Ply.  You  can't  crouch  inhides,  watch  them  like  grebes  or  gibbons,  and  draw  specific  conclusions,  Consid-  er,  if  you  will,  that  man  who  bears  such  a  heartbreaking  resemblance  to  myself,  weeping  into  his  dinner  tray  at  thirty-three  thousand  feet.  Heading  south  at  an  airspeed  of  five  hundred  and  twenty  miles  an  hour,  what  grief  has  overtaken  him?  Just  this:  He  put  salt  and  pepper  on  his  mashed  potatoes.  Then,  taking  up  his  fork,  he  made  to  plunge  it  into  the  plastic  dish.  Grains  of  salt  and  pepper  flew  every  which  way,  including  that  of  his  impending  face.  He  had  struck  a  sheet  of  Saran  Wrap  protecting  the  potatoes,  which  he  had  not  noticed.  He  laid  down  his  fork,  re-  moved  the  Saran  Wrap,  and  salted  and  peppered  the  potatoes  anew.  Picking  up  the  fork  again,  he  took  his  first  bite.  The  mashed  potatoes  was  banana  pud-  ding.  This  could  not  happen  to  every-  one.  Offhand,  I  would  say  it  would  occur  once  every  five  hundred  thou-  sand  passenger-miles.  The  emotional  reaction  is  less  unusual.  Feelings  are  ac-  centuated  at  altitude,  even  in  a  pres-  surized  cabin.  But  who  can  say  what  will  undo  one?  For  instance,  here  is  the  same  ex-  ceptional  fellow  sitting  by  himself  late  at  night  in  the  Sans  Souci  Launderama,  in  a  [REDACTED]  shopping  center,  shedding  tears  at  sea  level.  Except  for  the  Sans  Souci,  in  which  fluorescent  tubes  dis-  tribute  their  forbidding  light  on  the  ranks  of  washers  and  dryers,  the  no-  tices  advertising  babysitters,  lost  cats,  and  used  potter's  wheels,  the  shopping  center  is  dark.  What's  the  matter?  First  off,  the  decline  of  Arabic  numerals.  He  had  glanced  at  his  watch  to  see  when  his  wash  would  be  done.  Although  the  watch  wasn't  new,  only  then  did  he  realize  there  were  no  numbers  on  its  face.  In  their  place  was  a  series  of  inconsequential  dashes.  It  must  have  been  years  since  he  had  seen  numerals  on  a  watch  face.  He  envisioned  the  missing  figures,  was  moved  by  the  elegance  of  their  lines,  and  arrived  at  the  opinion  that  man  had  never  designed  anything  finer,  &quot;3&quot;  and  &quot;5&quot;  having  pride  of  place,  al-  though,  he  acknowledged,  there  might  be  those  who  would  plump  for  &quot;2.&quot;  The  several  alphabets  suffered  by  com-  parison,  as  did  mathematical  symbols,  toasters,  cathedrals.  Against  these  he  arrayed  great  works  of  nature-striped  bass,  roses,  shearwaters,  disrobed  wom-  en.  He  pictured  a  vast  plain  upon  which  the  pick  of  both  classes  of  things  was  forming  up,  as  though  to  pass  in  re-  view,  and  was  struck  by  how  much  he  took  for  granted  and,  equally,  by  how  much  he  had  failed  to  take  seriously.  If  you  had  these  or  similar  imaginings  in  the  middle  of  a  rinse  cycle,  would  you,  too,  be  brought  to  grief?  Under  certain  circumstances,  play-  ing  footsie  can  have  much  the  same  ef-  fect.  For  this  demonstration,  put  your-  self  in  the  shoes  of  our  hero.  More  literally,  put  yourself  in  his  socks.  Be-  hold  him,  one  of  a  party  of  six,  sitting  at  a  small  round  table  in  the  cocktail  lounge  of  a  Holiday  Inn,  playing  footsie  with  a  stewardess  whose  name  is  either  Lauri,  Audri,  or  Kelli.  He  has  slipped  off  his  right  loafer-on  the  principle,  he  supposes,  that  if  he  is  right-handed  he  is  bound  to  be  right-footed,  and  he  wants  to  give  it  his  best  shot-and  is  caressing  one  of  her  feet  with  his  in-  step.  At  the  same  time,  he  is  watching  her  face  for  her  reaction.  Nothing.  He  has  grown  old.  He  has  lost  his  touch.  He  knocks  a  book  of  matches  off  the  table-a  ruse-and  stoops  to  retrieve  it.  Beneath  the  table  everything  is  murky,  dismal,  and  tangled,  like  a  mangrove  swamp.  To  sort  things  out,  he  takes  hold  of  his  right  leg  at  the  knee  and  gropes  downward  toward  his  unproduc-  tive  foot.  He  has  been  playing  footsie  with  his  own  cast-off  loafer.  As  Rous-  seau  said,  my  pen  falls  from  my  hand.     MY  dad,  Jack  M.  Singer,  is  as  sen-  sible  as  the  next  man,  but  none  of  the  above  could  happen  to  him,  so  it  would  be  idle  even  to  speculate  on  his  responses.  He  doesn't  own  a  pair  of  loafers.  He  disapproves  of  loafers.  He  considers  my  wearing  them  perverse.  &quot;Loafers  don't  of-  fer  enough  support,&quot;  he  says.  (&quot;Your  feetflop  around  in  them,&quot;  my  mother  chimes  in.  &quot;We  brought  you  up  to  re-  spect  your  feet.&quot;)  When  my  dad  goes  on  a  trip,  he  takes  drip-dry  garments,  which  he  washes  in  the  sink  before  retiring.  &quot;A  moment's  applica-  tion,&quot;  he  says  pointedly.  My  dad  thinks  I'm  apathetic.  I  submit  that  what  I  am,  infact,  is  immobilized,  the  Apollonian  and  Dionysian  sides  of  my  character  being  of  equal  strength.  My  dad  also  considers  it  an  affront  to  reason  to  sea-  son  your  food  before  tasting  it.  Although  my  dad  keeps  his  guard  higher  than  Ido,  blows  do  get  through,  as  the  next  episode  so  poignantly  illus-  trates.  I  would  have  thought  I  had  visited  my  dad's  office  onlyacouple  of  months  ago,  but  more  time  must  have  gone  by,  35  for  how  much  has  changed.  Not  in  his  office  per  se-that  is  immutable-but  in  the  long,  straight,  insufficiently  lit  corridor  that  leads  to  it,  (I  call  it  &quot;in-  sufficiently  lit&quot;  out  of  deference  to  my  dad.  I  once  referred  to  it  as  dismal,  to  which  he  took  exception.  He  said  I  tended  to  be  eisegetical,  that  the  corri-  dor  was  merely  insufficiently  lit.  We  don't  always  see  eye  to  eye.)  What's  different  is  that  the  names  on  the  doors  along  the  way  are  new.  In  the  past,  they  were  Jewish.  I  would  come  across  their  bearers  in  the  men's  room  on  occasion,  absorbed  in  combing  their  hair  with  both  hands.  Operators,  my  father  called  them.  Now  the  frosted-  glass  doors  read:  [REDACTED]  Consolidated  Corp.;  Interglobal  Philippine  Import,  Ltd.;  Mitsobushi  American,  Inc.  &quot;You're  being  overrun,&quot;  I  tell  my  dad.  &quot;My  secretary  tells  me  their  girls  make  rice  in  the  ladies'  room,&quot;  he  says  in  what  I  would  definitely  calla  dis-  mal  tone  of  voice.  How  would  you  like  to  be  seventy-  five  and  hear  the  rumble  of  furniture-  laden  dollies  drawing  nearer?  How  would  you  like  to  be  forty-  three  and  hear,  first  thing  in  the  morn-  ing,  a  dachshund  awakening,  shaking  himself?  The  sound  is  like  that  of  slat,  ting  sails,  and  proposes  imponderable  voyages,  whales'  grandiose  sighing.  For  an  instant,  another  version  of  life  seems  possible.  Then  the  blower  in  the  paint  shop  of  the  factory  next  door  is  switched  on,  as  itis  every  weekday  ateight.  It  roars  yet  as  I  write.  What  recourse  do  I  have?  I  could  seek  out  the  manager  and  fall  upon  my  knees.  I  could  com-  plain  to  the  Bureau  of  Noise  Abate-  ment.  I  could  encourage  Josh  (the  dachshund)  to  go  on  the  standpipe  by  the  factory  door.  After  the  roar,  a  resounding  crash-my  stepson  let-  ting  his  weights  down  in  his  bedroom.  Before  going  to  school  he  presses  his  body  weight  (one  hundred  and  fifty  pounds)-three  sets  of  five  reps.  He  is  developing  his  shoulders  and  arm  ex-  tensors  so  he  can  beat  me  up.  Follow-  ing  the  crash,  a  whine.  The  volume  increases  as  I  approach  the  living  room.  Standing  naked  before  the  full-length  mirror  is  Sean,  my  stepdaughter's  boy-  friend,  dreamily  wielding  the  power  detangler  my  wife,  Daisy,  bought  him  for  his  twenty-fifth  birthday.  I  go  through  the  mail.  It  includes  a  rejection  slip  from  a  French  publisher.  &quot;...  Avec  nos  regrets,  veuillez  agr\xc3\xa9er  Pexpression  de  nos  sentiments  les  meil-  leurs.&quot;  I  realize  I  am  not  fully  con-  versant  with  egr\xc3\xa9er.  I  am  about  to  get  down  the  French-English,  English-  French  dictionary  when  I  recall  that  " b"36  my  stepdaughter  tore  out  nearly  all  the  French-English  &quot;A's  and  a  good  many  of  the  &quot;B&quot;s  several  years  ago.  I  cannot  remember  what  I  did  to  annoy  her  or  why  her  revenge  took  the  form  it  did,  but  I  can  still  hear  the  terrible  ripping.  As  you  may  have  noted,  so  far  not  a  word  has  been  spoken  in  my  house-  hold.  The  following  occurs  to  me:  If  you've  been  confined  to  bed  for  a  long  time,  your  first  steps  are  weak,  hesitant.  The  same  could  be  said  in  connection  with  other  parts  of  the  body.  Not  the  tongue.  I  have  gone  days  without  speaking  to  anyone  but  waitresses  and  cabafia  boys.  When  I  did  I  was  as  clo-  quent  as  ever,  perhaps  more  so.  I'm  sure  I'm  not  alone  in  this  regard.  If  I  didn't  utter  a  word  for  a  year,  my  first     cogent,  mellifluous  sentences  would  make  men  sit  up  and  take  notice,  cry,  laugh,  whichever  my  intent.  Given  a  year  to  get  it  right,  I  could  sweet-talk  the  thrush  from  his  thicket,  have  him  singing  to  me  from  my  wrist.  So  it  is  with  the  general  plan  of  my  life,  but  al-  though  I  have  been  tinkering  with  it  all  these  years,  it  may  not  be  workable.  The  possibility  exists  that  instead  of  seeking  solace  in  assonances  I  should  be  stilling  the  discord  in  the  faithless  arms  of  Lauri,  Audri,  or  Kelli,  I  suppose  I  was  attempting  some-  thing  ofthat  sort  when  I  haunted  the  Sans  Souci  Launderama  late  at  night,  helping  divorc\xc3\xa9es  and  widows  fold  their  laundry  and  reciting  snatches  of  Ge-  rard  Manley  Hopkins  to  them  above  Pd  APRIL  2  8,  197  3  the  hum,  whir,  whine,  and  clank  of  Big  Boys.  A  divorc\xc3\xa9e  whom  I  shall  call  C--  dates  from  that  romantic  period.  If  it  can  be  said  that  we  have  ruling  principles,  hers  was  carnality,  mine  is  less  easily  expressed.  What  I  suppose  I'm  doing  is  trying  to  pick  every  last  shred  of  flesh  from  my  life  so  that  I  may  contemplate  the  serene,  gleam-  ing  bone.  Bear  in  mind-I  do-that  in  the  end  this  may  have  a  different,  less  consoling  shape  than  I  had  antici-  pated.  When  I  made  love  to  C--,  I  gazed  down  at  her  broad,  slightly  domed  forehead.  Almost  no  flesh  was  interposed  between  the  skin  and  the  frontal  bone.  As  she  struggled  to  be  once  more  free  of  the  weight  of  her  life,  what  little  light  there  was  slid  across  the  curve  of  her  fore-  head,  making  it  appear  harder,  bleaker,  nearly  phosphorescent;  the  illusion  was  that  as  a  conse-  quence  of  her  exertions  the  skin  split,  revealing  the  bone.  Irecall  thinking  at  the  time  that  we  could  not  be  less  alike  but  we  are  heading  in  the  same  direction,  she  convulsively,  eves  shut,  I_  painstakingly,  looking  whereI'm  going,  and  that  at  this  point  she  is  out  front,  and  that  these  are  the  chances  you  take.  Now  Dr.  Nathan  Nieder-  lander  is  the  pilot  of  my  soul.  %,  \xc2\xab  \xe2\x80\x9cl  &quot;I'm  turning  the  wheel  over  to  you,  Doc,&quot;  I  told  him  the  other  day.  This  drew  a  chuckle,  add-  ing  to  my  depression.  Why,  I  asked  myself  anew,  do  I  insist  on  plaving  these  sessions  for  laughs,  milking  them  for  ap-  plause?  Niederlander  is,  you  might  say,  our  family  psychiatrist.  That  is,  Skippy  Mountjoy,  my  wife's  first  husband,  was  the  first  to  go  to  him;  Skippy  recommend-  ed  him  to  Daisy;  she,  in  turn,  prevailed  upon  me  to  see  him,  My  stepdaughter  almost  saw  him  on  three  occasions:  the  first  time  she  didn't  have  anything  to  wear;  the  second,  she  had,  but  it  wasn'tdry  vet;  the  third  bro-  ken  appointment  had  something  to  do  with  hundreds  of  split  ends.  Daisy,  who  is  unhappy  in  love,  goes  twice  a  week;  I  once;  Skippy,  who  is  on  welfare  and  has  a  drinking  problem,  in-  termittently.  Niederlander  con-  siders  our  interlocking  sorrows  high  above  West  End.  When  he's  running  late,  I  gaze  out  his  smutty  windows  at  the  Cim- " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  merian  prospect  of  the  avenue  or  take  down  German  paper-  backs-mysteries,  largely,  in  translation-from  his  shelves  and  blow  the  dust  off  them.  When  I  began  going  to  Nie-  derlander,  I  assumed  Skippy  no  longer  went.  After  I  learned  he  was  still  a  patient  of  sorts-  asking  to  be  squeezed  in  when  he  overslept  and  it  was  too  late  to  get  ajob  running  sandwiches  from  the  Leonard  Street  em-  ployment  agency  he  patron-  ized-I  put  it  to  Niederlander.  &quot;In  effect,  I'm  subsidizing  Skippy,&quot;  I  said,  raising  myself  from  the  languid  pose  on  his  couch  I  usually  adopt.  (When  Daisy  goes,  Niederlander  sits  on  the  couch,  she  in  the  chair.  I  don't  know  Skippy's  seating  ar-  rangement.  )  &quot;He  has  Medicaid,&quot;  Nieder-  lander  said.  &quot;But  you  couldn't  afford  to  see  the  Skippys  of  this  world  un-  less  you  had  patients  like  me  at  forty  bucks  a  pop.&quot;  \xc2\xabYou  are  covered  under  your  wife's  noncontributory  major  medical,  which  pays  seventy-five  per  cent  of  covered  charges  after  a  cash  deductible  of  three  hundred  and  fifty  dollars.&quot;  &quot;Up  toa  maximum  of  thirty-  five  hundred  dollars  in  any  twelve-consecutive-month  peri-  od,  and  you  only  get  twenty  dol-  lars  an  hour  from  Medicaid.&quot;  &quot;But  your  tax  dollars  provide  social  services  for  innumerable  unfortunates.&quot;  I  whipped  off  my  shirt.  &quot;Look  at  that,&quot;  I  said,  indicating  eruptions  on  my  shoulders.  Niederlander  put  on  his  reading  glasses.  &quot;Do  you  want  me  to  recom-  mend  a  good  dermatologist,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;or  are  you  suggesting  that  I  compare  you  to  Job?&quot;  &quot;What  I'm  suggesting  is  that  no  one  I  know  pays  for  even  a  percentage  of  their  wife's  first  husband's  psychother-  apV.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;As  we've  elicited  in  previous  ses-  sions,  your  life  has  become  circum-  scribed.  You  should  widen  your  circle  of  friends.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98N?  HAT  made  me  think  that  my  wife's  love  life  might  have  changed  for  the  better  was  her  sing-  ing  &quot;The  Star-Spangled  Banner&quot;  at  a  Enicks-Bucks  game.  At  the  Garden,  I  sit  on  the  aisle;  she  is  to  my  left;  the  flag  hangs  to  our  right.  Therefore,  when  we  rise  forthe  national  anthem  and  turn  to  face  the  flag,  she  is  behind    me.  On  that  occasion,  I  heard  an  un-  familiar  voice  raised  in  song.  After  a  few  bars,  I  realized  it  was  Daisy's.  Al-  though  we  have  been  married  ten  years,  this  was  the  first  time  I  ever  heard  her  sing  &quot;The  Star-Spangled  Banner;&quot;  in  fact,  I  can't  recall  her  singing  anything.  (In  her  defense,  Daisy  says  she  has  so  sung  lots  of  songs  in  my  hearing,  not  least  &quot;Happy  Birthday&quot;  on  a  number  of  my  birthdays.  Be  that  as  it  may,  her  voice  was  foreign  to  me,  pleasing,  but  slightly  flat.)  When  I  said  my  wife  was  unhappy  in  love,  you  naturally  assumed  I  was  responsible.  Not  in  this  case,  although,  in  all  fairness,  more  than  a  few  of  her  woes  can  be  laid  at  my  doorstep.  (For-  give  me  if  I  picture  them  as  an  accu-  mulation  of  copies  of  the  New  York  Times.)  No,  for  once  someone  named  Owen,  whom  she  met  at  a  filmmak-  ing  course  atthe  New  School,  let  her  down.  I  learned  of  his  existence-and  in-  constancy-in  [REDACTED],  &quot;Neither  of  you  has  any  emotional  content,&quot;  Daisy  told  me  there.  &quot;Dr.  Niederlander  said  I     shouldn't  put  all  my  eggs  in  one  bas-  ket.  What  he  didn't  tell  me  is  not  to  put  all  my  eggs  in  baskets.&quot;  At  the  time  of  this  revelation,  we  were  stand-  ing  up  to  our  waists  in  the  Gulf  of  [REDACTED],  a  setting  more  conducive  to  sympathy  than  hard  feelings.  All  the  same,  I  felt  that  if  I  spread  my  feet  any  farther  apart  I  would  be  able  to  detect  the  earth's  curve.  (This  re-  minds  me  that  my  two  favorite  odors  are  seas  and  books.  If  you  bury  your  nose  in  the  gutter  of  a  new  book,  pref-  erably  a  paperback,  you  can  detect  the  mustiness  to  come;  seas  are  best  smelled  when  cold-no  more  than  sixty-five  degrees-and  dead  calm  and  with  your  nose  a  quarter  inch  from  the  surface.  If  you  inhale  deeply  enough  you  can  smell  unseen  fishes.  Since  my  aim  is  to  increase  understanding,  I  must  admit  that  this  hasn't  been  scientifically  de-  termined.  Certain  fishermen,  however,  claim  to  be  able  to  distinguish  the  aroma  of  flowering  diatoms,  which  indicates  the  presence  of  schools  of  bluefish.  They  say  the  odor  resembles  that  of  &quot;a  crate  of  honeydew  melons&quot;  or  of  an  " b"38  unspecified  amount  of  &quot;moist  cucum-  bers.&quot;)  In  New  York,  Daisy  once  told  me,  &quot;I  don't  like  the  relationships  in  my  life.&quot;  This,  evidently,  was  a  further  re-  sponse  to  my  offer  to  help  her  lay  the  Persian  rugs  that  had  come  back  from  Spotless  that  morning-a  proposal  she  had  rejected,  saying,  &quot;I  don't  want  to  put  them  down  with  you.  All  you  want  to  do  with  me  are  domestic  things.&quot;  &quot;Of  which  relationships  are  you  speaking?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;All  of  them.  They're  too  bland,  too  wispy,  too  elusive.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  mean  elusive  or  allusive?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  she  wailed.  &quot;Could  I  mean  both  of  them?&quot;  Since  we  were  in  bed  at  the  time,  and  the  children  were  presumably  asleep,  having  abandoned  the  imaginary  electric  guitars  with  which,  disposed  about  the  living  room  like  statuary  in  an  Italian  garden,  they  accompany  the  Stones,  I  drew  her  to  me.  Getting  back  to  the  Knicks'  game,  I  could  think  of  nothing  to  make  Daisy  break  into  song-even  the  nation-  al  anthem-except  that  Owen  had  called  or  that  she  had  distributed  her  eggs  more  prudently,  I  offer  in  evidence  Exhibit  A,  she  took  up  ice-skating;  and  Exhibit  B,  she  took  up  peace-marching.  Once  or  twice  a  week  she  announces  she's  going  ice-skating.  Upon  her  re-  turn  she  regales  me  with  such  tales  as  the  rink  was  mobbed  with  hundreds  of  yeshiva  buchers  gliding  solemnly  about  in  crocheted,  beaded,  even  suede  yar-  mulkes.  (It  is,  no  doubt,  uncharitable  to  imagine  a  window  being  flung  open  in  a  third-floor  loftin  [REDACTED],  a  New  Realist  shouting  down  to  the  street,  &quot;'You  forgot  your  goddam  skates!&quot;)  Not  long  ago,  she  told  me  she  was  go-  ing  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  peace  march.  &quot;Look  for  me  on  television,&quot;  she  said.  I  watched  on  and  off,  but  didn't  see  her.  &quot;I  was  there,&quot;  she  said  when  she  got  back.  &quot;If  you  had  spotted  me,  you  would  have  seen  me  give  my  secret  signal.&quot;  The  cease-fire  agreement  terminat-  ed  the  marches,  but  I  assume  she  will  keep  on  skating  into  summer,  when  the  crowds  will  thin.  I  picture  her  at  last,  idly  tracing  an  outside  backward  eight  on  the  empty  rink-a  figure  well  beyond  her  capability.  It  is  a  scene  I  associate  with  that  of  my  dad  standing  at  a  hotel-room  sink,  hands  underwa-  ter,  dreamily  kneading  his  beloved  gar-  ments  of  sixty-five  per  cent  polyester,  thirty-five  per  cent  cotton.  My  dad!  A  few  days  ago  I  paid  him  a  visit  to  see  how  he  was  holding  up  against  the  Oriental  tide.  A  firm  named  Fukuoka  Foto  now  occupied     the  office  alongside  his-the  corridor  branches  to  the  right  at  his  office-so,  in  effect,  he  was  cut  off.  He  was  at  his  desk  when  I  came  in,  eyes  nearly  shut,  head  fractionally  back;  the  impression  was  that  he  was  sniffing  the  air  for  traces  of  simmering  sukiyalki.  The  light  in  his  office  was  dim,  the  source  for  most  of  it  being  the  window  behind  him,  so  that  when  he  arose  at  my  en-  trance  he  was  nearly  silhouetted.  He  seemed  much  thinner,  eroded;  he  looked,  in  fact,  like  the  sombre  coastal  formation  known  as  a  stack.  He  asked  me  whether  I  had  come  from  the  Y.  I  said  I  had.  He  asked  me  whether  anyone  had  bumped  into  me  while  I  was  swimming  and  if  so  what  I  had  said  to  him.  We've  had  this  con-  versation  a  number  of  times.  I  said  they  now  let  women  use  the  pool  on  Mon-  days,  Wednesdays,  and  Fridays,  and  what  I  told  her  was  &quot;You  know,  you're  being  anti-social.&quot;  &quot;Many  years  ago,&quot;  my  dad  said,  &quot;I  worked  on  a  chicken  farm  in  New  Jersey.  Jews,  you  know,  have  an  af-  finity  for  all  phases  of  the  poultry  busi-  ness.  When  I  fed  the  chickens,  I  would  inadvertently  step  on  their  toes.  I  said,  'Excuse  me.'&quot;  My  dad's  utterances  usually  have  a  high  moral  content.  We  sat  insilence  for  a  bit,  the  gloom  abruptly  thickening  as  the  sun  passed  behind  a  cloud  or  office  build-  ing.  I  thought  of  pulling  the  chain  on  the  standing  lamp  by  my  chair;  then  it  occurred  to  me  thatthe  bulbs  might  have  long  since  burnt  out.  I  was  tempt-  ed  to  take  off  my  shirt  and  show  my  dad  the  eruptions,  but  that  would  have  meant  launching  into  a  greatly  revised  account  of  the  last  ten  years  of  my  life,  and  he  wouldn't  put  up  with  the  vie  romanis\xc3\xa9e  I  fob  off  on  Nieder-  lander.  &quot;I  have  more  at  stake,&quot;  my  dad  would  say.  &quot;Many  years  ago,&quot;  my  dad  started  anew  (he  gets  on  these  kicks,  his  voice  nearly  entering  the  head  register,  as  though  he  were  speaking  to  me  from  the  other  side),  &quot;there  used  to  be  a  place  in  the  [REDACTED]  called  Starlight  Park-&quot;  &quot;Where  in  the  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;What  conceivable  difference  does  it  make?  You  know  nothing  of  the  [REDACTED].  To  you,  it's  terra  incognita.&quot;  My  dad  often  accuses  me  of  being  in-     different  to  his  past.  &quot;You  have  a  habit  of  asking  questions  to  hear  yourself  speak.&quot;  &quot;I  go  days  without  speaking,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;In  Starlight  Park,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;there  was  a  vast  outdoor  swimming  pool.  It  was  a  hundred  yards  long-&quot;  &quot;A  hundred  yards!&quot;  &quot;A  hundred.  Seventy-five.  It  was  vast.  One  summer,  when  I  was  a  young  man,  I  would  go  there  every  day  to  play  handball.  When  I  was  through  I  would  jump  in  the  pool  at  its  deepest  point,  expel  all  of  my  breath,  and  lie  on  my  back  on  the  bottom  with  my  arms  outspread-&quot;  My  dad  tilted  back  in  his  chair,  held  his  arms  out  wide,  and  gazed-I  would  say  beatifically,  he  would  say  momen-  tarily-at  the  ceiling.  &quot;-and  look  up.&quot;  As  for  me,  looking  down  is  my  fate  or  forte:  at  women's  foreheads  gleam-  ing  in  the  dark,  as  I  mentioned  earlier;  at  the  sidewalk  to  see  where  I'm  going  or,  as  Niederlander  would  say,  where  I've  been;  at  the  pages  of  a  book,  as  at  this  moment.  &quot;  'When  thou  at  the  random  grim  forge,  powerful  amidst  peers  Didst  fettle  for  the  great  grey  drayhorse  his  bright  and  battering  sandal!  &quot;  I  in-  tone  to  a  woman  who  has  lost  her  husband  in  [REDACTED],  while  my  pathetic  little  bundle  of  laundry  flies  about  in  one  of  the  Sans  Souci  dryers.  People  are  stirred  differently,  too,  although-and  this  perplexed  Marx-  literature  depends  on  and  resounds  with  common  chords.  For  example,  Dr.  Johnson  contended  that  no  poetical  passage  rivalled  the  description  of  the  temple  in  &quot;The  Mourning  Bride&quot;-  &quot;How  reverend  is  the  face  of  this  tall  pile  .  .  .&quot;  Of  course,  he  wasn't  trying  to  get  any  of  the  Sans  Souci  customers  to  go  to  bed  with  him.  &quot;I  know  I've  bumped  into  you  be-  fore  somewhere,  you  know,&quot;  the  wid-  ow  says  as  I  close  my  book.  In  my  motel  room,  when  we've  un-  dressed,  I  lie  on  my  back  on  the  car-  pet  and  say,  &quot;Hold  my  legs.&quot;  &quot;'There?&quot;  she  says.  &quot;No.  The  ankles.&quot;  &quot;Here?&quot;  &quot;But  really  clamp  down  on  them.  Put  your  weight  behind  it.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  this  isn't  going  to  be  any  of  that  bondage  stuff,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;I  know.  It's  just  thatI  forgot  to  do  my  sit-ups.&quot;  When  we  are  in  bed,  I  get  a  col-  lect  call  from  my  stepdaughter.  &quot;Next  Tuesday  is  the  third  anniversary  ofthe  day  I  first  met  Sean,&quot;  she  informs  me,  &quot;and  I'm  getting  him  a  mist-type  styler     " b" and  I  wondered  if  you  wanted  to  make  a  contribution.&quot;  Brimming  with  love,  I  pledge  five  dollars.  A  moment  later,  the  phone  rings  again.  Will  I  accept  a  collect  call  from  a  Mr.  Mountjoy  in  New  York?  &quot;I  will  not.&quot;  &quot;In  that  case,  I'll  pay  for  it,  Opera-  tor,&quot;  I  hear  Skippy  say.  &quot;Don't  believe  him,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;He  hasn't  got  a  dime  to  his  name.  He's  on  welfare.  I  have  to  contribute  toward  his  psychotherapy.&quot;  &quot;What  number  are  you  calling  from?&quot;  the  operator  asks  him.  He  reels  off  one  that  is  strangely  fa-  miliar,  being  mine.  I  picture  him  lolling  on  my  bed,  negligently  unbuttoning  his  collar,  loosening  a  hand-blocked  fou-  lard  I  wore  before  I  was  married-  my  wife  slips  Skippy  my  old  clothes.  I  suppose  there  is  comfort  in  the  fact  that  we  wear  different  sizes.  &quot;If  it  wouldn't  be  putting  too  much  of  a  strain  on  our  relationship,&quot;  he  says  to  me,  &quot;I  was  wondering  whether,  as  a  fellow-citizen  of  the  Republic  of  Letters,  you  could  see  your  way  clear  to  wiring  me  twenty  to  get  my  type-  writer  out  of  hock.  I'm  in  the  middle  of  a  sonnet  sequence.&quot;  &quot;Use  a  pen,&quot;  Isay.  &quot;Like  Shelley.&quot;  I  hang  up  and  fling  myself  upon  the  widow,  as  though  executing  a  rac-  ing  dive,  You  know,  I  heve  bumped  into  her  before,  in  the  pool  at  the  Y.  I  keep  this  discovery  to  myself;  I  don't  mean  my  life  to  veer  into  the  novelistic.  Pray  that  she  won't,  like  a  nineteenth-  century  heroine,  remember  me  as  she  unrolls  each  pair  of  children's  socks  we  rolled  together  in  the  Sans  Souci  Laun-  derama,  me  pining  the  while  for  the  little,  lost  feet  of  my  stepchildren.  No,  my  life  has  become  increasingly  like  a  dream  from  which  I  have  less  and  less  expectation  of  awakening.  After  she  has  left,  I  light  a  pipe,  take  up  the  &quot;Manyoshd&quot;-in  translation-  and  resume  reading  where  I  left  off  the  night  before.  Cuckoos,  plum  blossoms,  and  pessimism  imbue  my  mind.  My  forehead  is  peeling.  As  I  absently  rub  it,  bits  of  dead  skin  drift  down  patheti-  cally,  like  blossoms,  or  snow,  or  ash.  At  the  same  time,  the  smoke  from  my  pipe  rises  like  that  from  salt  fires.  It  is  vain  to  expect  the  smoke  to  bear  my  skin  upward.  I  would  like  to  compare  the  sound  of  turning  pages  with  some  nat-  ural  effect,  but  none  comes  to  mind.  A  FEW  days  later,  I  am  in  a  Bos-  torn  whaler,  off  Nonesuch,  at  sunset,  on  the  edge  of  the  deep,  watch-  ing  shearwaters  migrating  from  Tris-  tan  da  Cunha  to  the  Newfoundland  Banks.  They  come  singly,  by  and  large,  greaters  mostly,  with  the  odd  Manx,  ranging  deviously  down  the  wave  troughs,  as  though  searching  for  something.  I  fancy  it  is  remembered  fragments  of  their  pasts.  After  all,  they  had  come  this  way  before.  Perhaps  they  recall  me  from  other  springs,  bobbing  here,  Jewish  in  bearing-that  is,  some-  what  hunched-but  younger,  more  slender,  but  no  less  full  of  wonder.  Like  theacrobats,  usually  related,  who  form  human  pillars  by  standing  upon  one  another's  shoulders,  as  we  grow  older,  heavier,  less  agile,  we  take  our  place  farther  down  until,  at  last,  we  are  at  the  bottom,  supporting  the  rest.  There  we  totter  about-a  bit  theatrically  from  time  to  time,  I  admit. "