 M  R  S  .  B  L  A  S  I  N  G  A  M  E  P  O  T  E  E  T  HEN  we  were  younger,  we  lived  across  the  street  from  a  woman  who  believed  that  the  way  you  kept  your  front  lawn  said  as  much  about  you  as  your  religion  or  your  politics.  I  remember  her  as  a  frail  woman  who  tied  her  gray  hair  tight-  lyin  a  bun.  She  wore  bluejeans  and  aviator  sunglasses,  and  kept  a  sweat  pad  across  her  forehead.  And  she  had  every  type  of  garden  tool  imaginable:  rakes,  shears,  trowels,  fine-bristled  brooms,  hoses,  an  assortment  of  noz-  zles,  a  lawnmower,  and  a  spreader.  She'd  lived  all  her  life  on  the  outskirts  of  [REDACTED],  but  through  her  dili-  gence  she  gave  a  sense  of  rurality  to  the  lawn,  and  she  herself  looked  as  natural,  if  not  as  hardy,  as  an  azalea.  Her  surname  was  Poteet,  and  her  husband  ran  a  travel  agency  that  booked  tours  to  the  Caribbean  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  Europe,  and  Africa,  which  his  agency  called  The  43616e616461t  Refuge.  They  had  one  son,  who  had  moved  away  years  ago  but  came  home  every  Christmas  with  his  wife  and  daughter.  The  son  and  his  family  would  arrive  around  noon  on  the  day  before  Christmas,  unload  their  station  wagon,  carry  their  suitcases  and  snacks  into  the  house,  and  come  out  again  for  a  tour  of  the  lawn.  They  would  see  the  canvas  sheets  that  covered  the  grass  for  the  winter  and  the  bushes  shrouded  in  burlap  sacks.  Then  they  would  dis-  appear  into  the  house  until  New  Year's  Day.  Sometimes  when  I  passed  the  house  I  saw  their  silhouettes  on  the  cur-  tains,  moving  back  and  forth.  There  would  be  the  silhouette  of  Mrs.  Poteet,  all  angles,  directing  traffic,  and  that  of  Mr.  Poteet,  half  the  size  of  his  son  but  more  prosperous-looking,  with  a  cigar  and  the  Basque  beret  it  seemed  he  never  took  off,  standing  with  his  arms  around  his  son  and  daughter-in-  law.  There  was  no  silhouette  of  the  little  girl  against  the  curtain,  though,  be-  cause  she  was  too  small,  and,  in  any  case,  she  loved  to  be  out  on  the  lawn.  On  her  first  night  there,  her  grand-  mother  would  lead  her  down  the  steps  to  the  garden,  pointing  the  way  with  a  flashlight.  Then,  while  Mrs.  Poteet  knelt  and  aimed  her  light,  the  little  girl  peeked  under  the  burlap  that  covered  each  frozen  bush.  &quot;What  do  you  see,  Casey?&quot;  &quot;A  yellow  rose!&quot;  &quot;Can  you  smell  it?&quot;  With  her  head  under  the  burlap:  &quot;It  smells  like  gingersnaps!&quot;  &quot;Well,  as  long  as  you  don't  take  it  in  mind  to  eat  it,&quot;  Mrs.  Poteet  would  say.  I  often  felt  that  Mrs.  Poteet  wanted  her  son  to  make  his  visit  in  summer  instead  of  winter,  because  then  the  lawn  had  a  [REDACTED]  look.  She  was  a  strong-minded  person;  her  son  must  have  had  to  fight  to  choose  when  he  wanted  to  come.  And  she  wasn't  will-  ful  just  about  the  lawn;  my  mother  told  me  that  when  the  Poteets  first  moved  in-before  I  was  born-Mrs.  Poteet  used  her  maiden  name,  Blas-  ingame,  and  had  both  names,  Poteet  and  Blasingame,  printed  on  their  mail-  box.  &quot;We  sound  like  a  law  firm,&quot;  she  told  my  mother.  &quot;And  it  has  absolute-  ly  no  advantage-it  certainly  doesn't  help  our  income  tax-except  that  it  reminds  me  of  my  roots.&quot;  As  you  might  expect,  she  used  gar-  dening  words  in  ordinary  conversation  and  never  missed  an  opportunity  to  say  how  human  beings  could  profit  from  their  plant  cousins.  For  example:  My  brother  Butch  was  born  in  summer;  I  was  seven  at  the  time.  I  remember  that  one  afternoon  shortly  before  my  mother  gave  birth  I  was  sitting  on  our  front  steps  when  Mrs.  Poteet,  her  sweat  pad  on  her  forehead  and  wear-  ing  canvas  work  gloves,  walked  up  and  asked  me  if  I  was  happy  to  be  having  a  sibling.  I  hesitated,  ignorant,  and  final-  ly  said  that  everyone  wanted  a  sibling.  &quot;And  do  you  know  how  siblings  arrive,  Arthur?&quot;  she  asked.  Her  face  was  tan,  with  a  great  many  lines,  and  when  she  talked  her  skin  crinkled  like  waxed  paper.  &quot;They're  inherited,&quot;  I  said.  She  smiled.  &quot;Come  here,&quot;  she  said,  and  took  my  hand-her  glove  was     much  too  big  for  her  hand,  and  I  felt  her  fingers  hiding  inside-and  led  me  across  the  street  to  her  lawn,  where  the  sprinkler  was  going.  &quot;Do  you  see  how  grass  grows,  Ar-  thur?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;First  a  seed  is  planted,  then  a  new  being  comes  into  the  world  and  we  nourish  it  with  our  water.&quot;  She  caught  the  fine  spray  in  her  palm  and  let  it  form  a  puddle.  &quot;But  a  plant  can  be  mother,  father,  and  siblings,  all  in  one.&quot;  I  nodded,  wanting  her  to  think  I  understood.  We  walked  to  the  flow-  er  bed.  Then,  spreading  the  petals  ofa  lily,  she  said,  &quot;A  flower  has  a  sta-men-here-and  an  o-vary-down  there-and  pollen,  all  to  itself.  The  pollen  is  as  tiny  as  the  fur  on  your  tongue,  and  with  one  whiff  of  air  it  can  bring  to  life  an  entire  family.  &quot;And  plants  never  travel  far  from  home,&quot;  she  explained  to  me.  &quot;Not  like  your  Homo  sapiens.  Why,  a  journey  of  five  feet  is  long  indeed  for  a  bit  of  pollen.&quot;  The  lawn  was  her  passion,  and  she  worked  on  it  alone.  Mr.  Poteet  helped  in  autumn  by  carrying  leaves  to  a  fire  they  burned  in  a  steel  cylinder  by  the  curb.  But  in  summer  he  spent  Satur-  days  on  their  patio,  smoking  cigars  and  sipping  tonic,  while  Mrs.  Poteet  ran  about  the  lawn  doing  a  hundred  jobs  at  once.  I  imagine  if  she'd  let  him  he  would  have  helped;  but  she  was  so  fussy  about  where  bulbs  were  to  go,  the  length  the  grass  was  to  be  cut,  and  the  width  of  the  edging  at  the  walk  and  curb  that  his  work  would  only  have  annoyed  her  and  exasperated  him.  So  he  sat  in  his  chaise  longue  under  an  um-  brella  and  read-usually  travel  books  and  biographies  of  great  artists-and  occasionally  he  read  aloud  his  favorite  passages  to  Mrs.  Poteet  as  she  worked.  She'd  be  clipping  the  edge  of  the  slope  by  the  sidewalk,  and  he'd  read  of  Picasso's  life  or  a  Mayan  excavation,  and  she'd  nod  to  each  story,  all  the  while  hunched  over  her  shears,  clip-  ping  and  struggling  along  in  a  duck  walk.  After  an  hour  or  so,  he'd  go  into  the  house  and  come  back  with  two  drinks-a  freshtonic  for  himself  and  a  fruit  juice  for  her.  Then  she'd  place  her  tools  in  a  neat  pile  by  the  steps,  take  off  her  sweat  pad  and  gloves,  and  sit  down  next  to  him.  He'd  talk  about  his  books,  but  she'd  fidget  and  examine  the  lawn  for  details  she'd  overlooked:  a  patch  of  unmowed  grass  or  a  hedge  left  untrimmed.  Then  she'd  gulp  down  her  juice  and  return  to  work.  This  was  how  they  spent  every  Saturday  during  summer,  from  morn-  " b"ing  till  dinnertime.  Often  they  had  dinner  on  the  patio;  Mr.  Poteet  bar-  becued  steak  or  chicken  while  Mrs.  Po-  teet,  so  freshly  washed  you'd  never  have  guessed  she'd  spent  a  day  working  on  the  lawn,  started  the  sprinkler  and  dashed  to  the  center  of  the  lawn  every  few  minutes  to  adjust  its  base  so  that  all  parts  of  the  lawn  were  insured  an  equal  supply  of  water.  The  sidewalk  in  front  of  the  lawn,  the  little  path  leading  to  the  front  steps,  and  the  pa-  tio  were  all  without  a  trace  of  dirt.  She  was  a  meticulous  groundskecper.  They  took  a  long  time  over  their  meal,  breathing  smoke  from  the  smol-  dering  coals.  Then,  at  nine,  they  doused  the  coals,  cleaned  and  packed  the  barbecue  set,  and  shut  off  the  sprinkler.  Before  they  went  to  bed,  Mrs.  Poteet  always  clipped  a  rose  for  the  vase  on  the  living-room  windowsill.  O  you  see  she  was  a  careful  wom-  an-&quot;her  own  boss,&quot;  as  Mr.  Poteet  said-and,  though  she  was  friendly,  she  kept  to  her  business.  It  was  through  her  business  that  we  really  knew  her.  One  day,  she  phoned  my  mother  and,  after  exchanging  pleasantries,     asked  to  speak  to  the  junior  partner  of  the  house.  My  mother  caught  on  right  away  and  said  that  she  and  Bill,  my  father,  often  felt  like  junior  part-  ners  in  their  establishment.  Mrs.  Poteet  said  yes,  they'd  felt  the  same  way  when  John  was  growing  up.  When  my  motherhanded  me  the  phone,  she  said,  &quot;I  think  you're  in  for  a  business  proposition.&quot;  &quot;Arthur,&quot;  Mrs.  Poteet  said,  &quot;I've  been  watching  you  and  your  brother,  and  I  suspect  that  with  training  you  both  could  develop  green  thumbs.&quot;  &quot;Yes'm,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;A  lawn  often  needs  young  hands  to  pep  it  up,  so  if  you'd  like  you  can  be-  gin  to  cultivate  your  thumbs  with  me,  as  apprentices,  at  one  dollar  twenty-  five  cents  an  hour-a  wage  I  never  dreamed  of  earning  till  I  was  practical-  ly  thirty.&quot;  &quot;I'll  have  to  ask  my  mother,&quot;  I  said.  I  thought  of  the  sun,  the  stickygrass,  and  how  lazy  Butch  was.  &quot;Then  you  ask  your  mother,  and  if  she  says  yes,  and  if  your  father  says  yes,  you  ask  your  brother  Butch,  too,  be-  cause  he's  also  a  member  of  the  team,  and  I  don't  want  either  of  you  to  do  something  you'll  regret  later  on.  Never  live  with  regrets,  Arthur.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Y\xe2\x82\xac$)m,),  Butch  and  I  discussed  it  with  our  parents.  My  father  said,  &quot;She'll  make  you  earn  your  minimum  wage.&quot;  But  my  mother  was  worried  that  the  work  might  be  too  tiring  for  Butch,  who  was  six.  After  we  finally  agreed  to  accept  the  offer,  she  took  me  into  the  kitchen  and  said  in  a  low  voice  that  I'd  have  to  use  my  judgment  in  deciding  which  work  was  suitable  for  a  younger  boy.  She  meant,  of  course,  that  although  we'd  both  get  a  dollar  twenty-five  an  hour,  I'd  do  twice  as  much  as  Butch,  who  would  sweep  and  hose  the  side-  walk.  I  was  about  to  suggest  that  we  ought  to  be  paid  according  to  how  long  we  worked  and  what  we  did  when  my  mother  said  that  if  she  found  I  was  working  harder  than  my  brother  she'd  reward  me,  in  private.  &quot;I  don't  want  Butch  to  grow  up  in  your  shadow,  Mr.  Highpockets,&quot;  she  said.  N  a  Saturday  in  April  we  went  across  the  street.  My  mother  had  dressed  Butch  for  an  expedition;  he  " b" wore  a  sun  visor,  a  jaunty  scarf  tied  like  an  ascot,  knee-high  fireman's  boots  with  his  pants  tucked  into  them,  and  a  windbreaker-an  exact  imita-  tion  of  what  my  father  wore  to  play  golf.  Mr.  Poteet  laughed  when  he  saw  him.  &quot;And  what's  this?&quot;  he  said,  shad-  ing  his  eyes  like  a  scout  scanning  the  horizon.  &quot;Who's  this  gentleman  farmer?&quot;  &quot;My  mother  fixed  him  up  like  that,&quot;  I  explained.  &quot;Why,  Bartholomew,  if  I  didn't  know  you  spent  most  of  your  time  at  school,I'd  say  you  tended  the  family  estates.&quot;  &quot;These  are  feermanz  boots,&quot;  said  Butch,  pointing  to  his  feet.  &quot;What's  that?  '(Feermanz  boots.  Why  so  they  are!  So  they  are!&quot;  Mrs.  Poteet  said,  &quot;Well,  Monsieur  Feerman,  now  we'll  see  if  you  can  han-  dle  a  hoe  as  well  as  you  can  tie  an  im-  maculate  knot.&quot;  So  our  apprenticeship  began.  First  we  learned  that  a  lawn  is  like  a  soft  skin,  as  tender  as  the  underbelly  of  a  swan,  and  that  you  must  tread  lightly  on  it  and  never  dig  your  heels  or  toes  intothe  soil.  &quot;A  break  in  the  ground  is  an  epidermal  break,&quot;  Mrs.  Poteet  said.  &quot;And  though  a  lawn  can't  cry  with  pain  as  we  do,  it  suffers  in  its  own  spe-  cial  way.&quot;  This  was  a  hard  rule  for     Butch  to  keep,  because  his  boots  were  so  heavy,  buthe  made  an  effort,  and  Mr.  Poteet  said  he  walked  aslightly  as  a  seraph.  Mrs.  Poteet  also  taught  us  never  to  let  our  tools  use  ws  but  to  use  them.  &quot;A  tool  is  like  a  colt,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  ask-  ing  to  be  tamed,  but  at  the  same  time  it  would  love  to  run  free,  and  it's  up  to  you  to  know  when  to  draw  the  line.&quot;  Then,  very  delicately,  she  trimmed  the  edge  of  the  lawn,  not  squeezing  the  shears  but  holding  them  lightly,  and  effortlessly  turning  her  wrist.  &quot;If  you  ever  have  the  oppor-  tunity,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;take  a  long,  long  look  at  a  barber,  for  in  many  ways  we're  giving  our  lawn  a  tfonsure.  You'll  see  that  a  barber  never  grabs  or  chops  hair  but  respects  it  and  cuts  with  the  grain.&quot;  And  she  did  just  that-the  shears  never  clashed  and  the  grass  nev-  er  sounded  as  if  it  were  being  ripped  out  of  its  bed.  Instead,  you  heard  a  quiet  clicking,  and  if  you  strained  your  hearing  and  used  your  imagination,  you  could  hear  the  cut  grass  land  softly  on  the  pavement.  She  taught  us  a  dozen  other  things:  how  to  gently  kick  the  spreader  so  that  seed  flowed  evenly,  how  to  mow  in  circles,  how  to  dig  a  hole  the  size  of  ahalfdollar  when  planting  bulbs.  It  was  a  tiring  morning,  but  when  we  finished  Mr.  Poteet  toasted  us  MAY  12,  1973  and  forecast  a  good  summer.  E  worked  with  Mrs.  Poteet  through  that  summer.  As  it  turned  out,  the  work  wasn't  hard  and  I  could  have  done  it  all  myself.  On  Saturday  mornings  after  break-  fast,  we  took  the  tools  out  of  the.  garage  and  brought  them  around  front,  where  we  stacked  them  by  the  steps.  I  began  mowing  while  Butch  walked  behind  me  with  a  rake,  gathering  cut  grass  into  small  piles,  and  Mrs.  Poteet  trimmed  the  front  and  sides  of  the  lawn.  The  mowing  should  have  taken  an  hour,  but  often  I  mowed  for  a  timeonly  to  find  that  Butch  was  far  behind  me,  fiddling  with  the  rake  or  gath-  ering  all  the  grass  into  one  pile  with  fanatical  care;  then  I  had  to  steer  him  in  the  right  direction,  coaxing  him  in  a  gentle  voice  so  that  Mrs.  Poteet  wouldn't  say,  &quot;Arthur,  remember  seven  years  is  sev-  en  summers,  and  that's  twenty-one  months  of  experience  in  your  account,  while  Butch  has  none.  So  when  you're  reckoning  blame  please  subtract  his  credit.&quot;  After  mowing,  I  went  over  the  grass  Butch  had  gathered  and  raked  it  into  two  big  piles  while  Butch  and  Mrs.  Poteet  swept  the  sidewalk  and  patio.  Then  we  all  went  round  back  to  get  trash  cans  to  put  the  cut  grass  into.  I  took  one  can,  and  Mrs.  Poteet  and  Butch  took  the  other.  They  each  held  a  handle  and  Butch  led  the  way,  encouraged  by  Mrs.  Poteet's  &quot;Bar-  tholomew,  don't  forget  you  have  a  matron  on  your  team.&quot;  When  we'd  put  away  the  cut  grass  and  again  cleared  the  sidewalk  and  patio,  we  pruned  the  hedges  and  bushes  in  the  garden.  Mrs.  Poteet  and  I  did  this  alone.  She  lent  me  her  right-hand  work  glove,  which  protected  me  from  thorns  and  bristles,  and  then  pruned  with  her  left  hand,  adding  strength  to  her  grip  by  squeezing  her  thumb  and  fingers  with  her  bare  right  hand.  The  garden  was  L-shaped;  we  start-  ed  at  opposite  ends  of  the  L  and  worked  toward  the  juncture,  but  if  I  saw  that  I  was  going  to  reach  it  ahead  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  of  her,I  took  my  time  and  let  her  get  there  first.  Waiting  for  me,  she'd  stretch  herself  to  get  rid  of  the  kinks  that  came  from  so  much  bending;  then,  as  I  approached,  she  would  call,  &quot;That,  Arthur  Eggleston,  is  a  morn-  ing's  work!&quot;  In  the  afternoons,  we  worked  in  the  garden,  cultivating  the  soil  between  the  plants,  then  roamed  the  lawn  looking  for  crabgrass.  Butch  pointed  out  the  rare  patches  of  weed,  and  Mrs.  Poteet  and  I  dug  them  up  with  aluminum  trowels.  By  three-thirty,  we  were  ready  to  sweep  for  the  last  time,  and  hose  the  sidewalk  and  patio.  Because  Butch  wore  boots,  he  wasn't  afraid  to  stand  on  the  edge  of  the  soaked  slope  or  in  a  stream  in  the  gutter.  From  these  van-  tage  points  he  aimed  his  hose.  He  be-  came  adept  at  adjusting  the  nozzle;  with  a  flick  of  his  wrist  he  changed  a  fine  spray  on  the  flower  bed  to  a  heavi-  er  pressure  on  the  lawn  sur-  face.  He  loved  hosing.  September  came  before  we  knew  it,  and  Mr.  Poteet's  forecast  seemed  true-our  summer  was  good.  We'd  made  money,  and  knew  how  to  do  the  jobs  a  lawn  de-  manded.  &quot;Now  I  suppose  you  fel-  lows'll  want  to  take  on  other  customers,&quot;  Mr.  Poteet  said  one  day  in  early  September.  &quot;It's  only  natural,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Poteet.  &quot;No,&quot;  Isaid.  &quot;We're  too  lazy.&quot;  &quot;Lazy?&quot;  Mr.  Poteet  said.  &quot;Did  my  audio  pick  that  up  correctly?&quot;  &quot;What  you  mean,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Poteet,  &quot;is  that  the  work  is  exhausting.  Only  you're  too  well-mannered  to  say  as  much.&quot;  &quot;What  they  really  mean  is  they're  faithful.&quot;  &quot;We  like  it  here,&quot;  Butch  said.  &quot;Well  I  hope  you  do  like  it  here,  Bartholomew,&quot;  Mrs.  Poteet  said.  &quot;Because  this  lawn  is  part  yours  now,  and  will  be  for  a  long  time  to  come,  God  willing.&quot;  But  though  we  helped  put  down  the  canvas  sheets  and  cover  the  shrubs  with  burlap  bags,  and  inspected  the  lawn  throughout  the  winter  and  worked  on  it  again  the  next  summer,  we  knew  something  was  wrong.  At  times,  Mr.  Poteet  appeared  tired  and  old-  er.  And  Mrs.  Poteet  seemed  more  de-  termined  than  enthusiastic.  Often  that  second  summer  she'd  suddenly  stop  pruning  and  say  to  me,  &quot;Arthur,  you  finish,  please.  I  simply  must  rest.&quot;  And  she  had  a  distracted  air,  as  though  something  were  competing  with  the  lawn  for  her  attention.  Finally,  Mr.  Poteet  told  us  they'd  decided  to  move  to  the  [REDACTED]  to  be  near  their  son.  &quot;I'm  too  old  for  business,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Every  day  I  dread  the  alarm  in  the  morning.  And  Helen  is  no  longer  a  girl.&quot;  &quot;'You're  both  very  energetic,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'That's  kind  of  you,  Art.  But  my  personal  barometer  says  otherwise.&quot;  &quot;One  feels  quite  fine,&quot;  Mrs.  Po-  teet  said.  &quot;Or  believes  oneself  tofeel  that  way,  and  then  all  of  a  sudden  one  sees  one's  whole  life  as  if  it  were  over,     37  and  a  terrible,  terrible  weight  falls  on  the  shoulders,&quot;  &quot;So  what  do  you  do?&quot;  Mr.  Poteet  said.  &quot;If  you're  lucky,  you  take  a  long-a  permanent-vacation.  Les  grandes  vacances,&quot;  There  was  a  silence,  during  which  Mrs.  Poteet  screwed  on  a  new  sprin-  kler  attachment.  &quot;When  are  you  thinking  of  mov-  ing?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;We  hope  to  have  sold  the  house  by  next  spring,  Arthur,&quot;  Mrs.  Poteet  said.  &quot;We've  already  begun  to  advertise,  and  soon  the  hordes  will  come.&quot;  She  hesitated.  &quot;Of  course,  we'll  always  re-  member  you  both,  and  I  don't  imag-  ine  I'll  ever  again  look  for  lawn  part-  ners,  if  they  evenhave  lawns  there,&quot;  &quot;It's  a  university  town,&quot;  Mr.  Po-  teet  explained.  &quot;Our  John's  been  good  enough  to  open  his  doors  to  us.&quot;  &quot;Someday  you'll  do  as  much  for  your  parents,&quot;  Mrs.  Poteet  said.  OON  people  came,  very  early  in  the  morning,  be-  fore  Mr.  Poteet  had  left  for  the  agency,  or  at  noon,  in  which  case  Mrs.  Poteet  dealt  with  them  alone,  or  after  dinner.  The  procedure  never  varied;  a  car  drove  up  and  the  house  curtains  ruffled  slightly.  When  the  visitors  reached  the  front  steps,  the  door  opened.  If  Mr.  Poteet  was  home,  he  put  his  arm  around  the  husband  and  wel-  comed  him;  then  Mrs.  Poteet  presided  over  a  viewing  of  the  lawn  and  garden.  She  moved  stiffly,  and  when  she  described  the  lawn  she  became  so  in-  volved  in  her  subject  that  she  seemed  to  forget  the  visitors.  From  autumn  into  winter,  the  people  came,  though  the  Poteets  never  put  up  a  FOR  SALE  sign.  &quot;We  depend  one  hundred  per  cent  on  the  repu-  tation  of  our  agent,&quot;  Mr.  Po-  teet  said,  and  Mrs.  Poteet  felt  there  was  no  call  to  damage  the  lawn  by  driving  a  stake  into  it.  We  continued  to  stop  by  on  Saturdays  to  rake  leaves,  sift  the  flower-bed  soil,  and  plant  bulbs  for  spring.  Often  we  met  the  people  who  came;  many  were  young  couples,  and  Mrs.  Poteet  told  the  wives  about  nearby  markets  and  the  security  of  the  streets.  &quot;John  grew  up  in  this  little  house,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  all  that  time  I  " b"38  never  lost  a  minute's  peace  worry-  ing  whether  he  was  safe  out-of-doors.&quot;  She  was  brave  about  the  sale  and  had  to  be,  because  more  was  demanded  of  her  than  of  Mr.  Poteet.  He  had  his  travel  books  and  long-distance  phone  calls  to  the  [REDACTED]  and  Europe,  but  she  had  only  the  lawn  and,  once  a  year,  a  visit  from  John.  It  put  a  strain  on  her;  I  noticed  that  as  she  talked  to  people  interested  in  the  house  she  would  glance  over  her  shoulder  atthe  lawn,  as  if  to  assure  herself  it  was  still  there.  In  fact,  the  lawn  was  the  decisive  fac-  tor  in  her  consideration  of  a  prospective  buyer;  they  turned  down  people  whom  Mrs.  Poteet  felt  wouldn't  take  careof  it.  She  made  this  judgment  in  a  shrewd  but  roundabout  way:  First,  of  course,  she  appraised  them  by  their  appearance,  and  her  judgments  ranged  from  &quot;de-  cent'  and  &quot;sober&quot;  to  &quot;slick&quot;  and  &quot;af-  fected.&quot;  Then  while  she  interviewed  them,  and  they  her,  she  slipped  into  the  conversation  casual  questions  about  their  fondness  for  the  outdoors.  Once,  she  turned  down  a  man  because  he  said  he  spent  every  Saturday  watching  the  football  games  on  TV.  &quot;Who's  going  to  mind  the  lawn?&quot;  she  asked  Mr.  Poteet.  &quot;Well,  maybe  he'll  hire  someone-  someone  qualified.&quot;  &quot;Pshaw!  That's  like  raising  your  child  with  a  governess.  No,  sir.&quot;  All  told,  they  spent  five  months  choosing  a  suitable  buyer.  In  late  Jan-  uary,  after  a  bitter  snowstorm  that  kept  us  from  school  for  three  days,  Mrs.  Poteet  told  me  they'd  sold  the  house  to  insurance  people,  who  promised  to  take  care  of  the  lawn  and  continue  to  em-  ploy  Butch  and  me,  if  we  agreed.  I  remember  that  conversation  well.  The  two  of  us  were  standing  on  the  lawn,  wrapped  in  coats,  scarves,  and  mufflers,  and  had  to  shout  above  the  wind.  &quot;We  wish  we  could  work  for  you!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  wish  ...&quot;  &quot;We  could  work  for  you  and  Mr.  Poteet!&quot;  &quot;Ah,  for  us!&quot;  &quot;Butch  wishes  it,  too!&quot;  &quot;What  we  wish,  Arthur,  is  often  not  what  we  get!&quot;  &quot;Just  the  same,  it  makes  us  sad.&quot;  With  that  she  kept  silent  for  a  mo-  ment.  Then  she  rubbed  my  cheeks  with  her  mittens.  &quot;You'll  still  be  thawing  out  in  sum-  mer  if  you  stand  here  like  this!&quot;  she  said,  and  waited  for  me  to  trudge  through  the  drifts  to  our  house.  The  insurance  people  spent  a  winter  evening  with  the  Poteets  and  returned  for  oneday  in  spring,  shortly  before  the  Poteets  moved.  They  were  friendly  people,  with  no  children  as  yet.  They  said  again  they  would  respect  the  work  the  former  owners  had  put  intothe  lawn,  and  the  husband  assured  me  they  would  &quot;abide  by  the  contract.&quot;  Before  she  moved,  Mrs.  Poteet  asked  me  to  write  to  her  about  how  the  lawn  work  was  going  and  whether  the  garden  had  kept  its  beauty.  &quot;Just  a  card  to  reassure  me,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  don't  be  afraid  to  be  blunt.&quot;  I  promised  to  send  photographs,  de-  tailed  descriptions,  and  drawings  scaled  to  size.  &quot;Oh  heavens,  that  won't  be  neces-  sary,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  should  say  not.  Once  or  twice  a  year  will  be  fine-in  sum-  mer,  of  course.  I'd  just  like  what  you  might  call  a  'note  on  progress.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;I'll  do  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  Butch  will  write,  too.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Butch.  That  Butch  is  another  story  in  himself.  Why,  when  we  see  him  next  he'll  have  a  Ph.D.  in  agronomy!&quot;  MOVING  day  was  frantic.  Mis.  Poteetran  from  room  to  room  and  out  to  the  van  and  in  again,  exam-  ining  furniture  and  making  certain  the  moving  men  were  clean.  Mr.  Poteet  stood  by  the  rear  of  the  van  with  a  list     -Douoras  MorEa  of  his  own  and  checked  off  each  item  as  it  went  in.  &quot;One  Confucian  bust-right!&quot;  &quot;One  Formica-top  kitchen  table-  keerect!&quot;  &quot;One  carton  European  biography-  bien  sur!&quot;  Butch  and  I  sat  on  our  front  steps  and  watched.  Most  of  the  items  were  too  heavy  for  us  to  carry,  and  anyway  Mr.  Poteet  told  us  that  the  moving  men  were  professionals  trained  for  this  business-former  athletes  and  body  cultists  goneon  the  skids.  I  remember  little  of  the  actual  moving:  just  big  men  in  T-shirts,  grunting  every  time  they  hoisted  something  onto  the  truck,  and  Mr.  Poteet  shifting  his  cigar  after  reg-  istering  each  item,  and  Mrs.  Poteet  darting  among  them  all,  an  orange  ba-  tik  bandanna  around  her  head.  Our  goodbye  was  tearful.  Butch  chased  the  van  down  the  street,  then  ran  for  two  blocks  behind  the  Poteets'  car.  I  had  a  chill.  But  I  remembered  what  Mrs.  Poteet  had  asked,  and  guiltily,  because  I  nev-  er  mentioned  her  request  to  my  parents  or  the  new  owners,  I  wrote  describing  what  I  thought  she  would  like  to  hear  about  the  condition  of  the  lawn.  &quot;To-  day  a  canvas  sheet  blew  off,&quot;  I  wrote  in  December,  &quot;and,  through  inertia  and  ennui,  fifteen  square  feet  of  lawnwere  left  uncovered  for  two  days.  The  re-  sult  was  havoc.&quot;  In  March,  I  wrote,  &quot;The  canvas  and  burlap  have  been  re-  moved,  to  both  my  delight  and  chagrin.  It  is  wonderful  to  see  the  lawn  again,  but  will  we  ever  get  it  in  shape  after  the  rigors  of  winter?&quot;  Another  time,  I  " b" was  cheerful  and  reassuring:  &quot;The  lawn  is  superb,  although  not  at  the  apex  it  attained  when  you  were  here.&quot;  In  the  summer,  I  described  our  new  boss  with  agentle  but  unsparing  eye:  &quot;He's  plainly  never  worked  with  lawns  before,  but  he's  not  ashamed  to  learn  and  not  above  criticism.&quot;  After  that  first  year,  my  letters  were  less  frequent.  I  was  preparing  for  col-  lege,  and  felt  that  the  preoccupation  with  the  lawn  belonged  to  a  part  of  my  life  that  had  passed.  Strangely,  Mrs.  Poteet  now  began  to  write  more  often-not  just  twice  a  yearbut  at  Christmas,  Easter,  and  several  times  during  the  summer.  She  wrote  short  letters,  asking  about  the  family,  noting  that  I  stood  at  the  threshold  of  a  career,  and  finally,  and  without  fail,  asking  in  a  cautious  but  urgent  tone  about  the  lawn.  I  answered  as  best  I  could.  She  wrote  back  for  more  information,  ob-  serving  that  a  lawn,  too,  must  change  with  the  times.  Once,  she  enclosed  a  photograph  of  her  granddaughter,  a  pretty  girl  who,  she  said,  would  rather  suffer  exile  than  be  caught  peeping  un-  der  a  burlap  bag.  Our  correspondence  continued  even  when  I  went  away  to  college  and  had  nothing  more  to  do  with  the  lawn.  Butch  had  severed  his  relations,  too,  and  spent  all  his  time  building  gadgets:  a  miniature  pinball  machine  and  a  ham  set  that  picked  up  Radio  Free  Europe.  &quot;We  enjoy  your  letters  so,&quot;  Mrs.  Poteet  wrote.  &quot;And  are  keeping  them  in  our  upstairs  bu-  reau.  One  day  we  will  give  them  back  to  you.  Perhaps  your  alma  mater  will  want  to  have  them.&quot;  And  Mr.  Poteet  added  in  the  margin:  &quot;Full  steam  ahead  on  the  course  of  life-Lawrence  Larry'  Poteet.&quot;  Then  one  Christmas  they  came  back.  Mrs.  Poteet  phoned  from  their  motel  to  say  they  planned  to  see  the  neighborhood  again  and  wanted  es-  pecially  to  see  their  house.  They'd  come  around  noon;  would  we  escort  them?  &quot;For  an  hour,&quot;  Butch  whispered.  &quot;And  you  do  the  talking.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  told  her.  &quot;We'd  love  to.&quot;  They  were  old.  They  looked  as  if  they'd  spent  the  last  few  years  acquir-  ing  new  lines  in  their  faces  and  fold  upon  fold  of  flesh  under  their  chins.  Mr.  Poteet  said  he  now  stayed  indoors  and  had  given  up  cigars.  Mrs.  Poteet  had  lost  the  ability  to  speak  rapidly  and  distinctly,  though,  as  if  to  compensate  for  this,  she  talked  more  with  her  hands,  which  fluttered  like  skittish  birds.  She  wasn't  pleased  with  the  lawn.  &quot;A  disappointment,&quot;  she  called  it.  &quot;Not  at  all  as  we'd  envisaged  it.&quot;  ___  &quot;'They're  good  people,&quot;  she  said  of  the  owners.  &quot;But  not  lawn  lovers.&quot;  Steadying  herself  on  my  arm,  she  bent  down  and  felt  the  cold  ground  un-  der  the  canvas.  &quot;Uneven,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Bare  patches.  We  did  wonders  with  this  lawn,  when  you  consider.&quot;  They  politely  refused  my  invitation  to  lunch.  They  were  anxious  to  get  back  to  the  motel  and  phone  John.  Before  she  left,  Mrs.  Poteet  told  me  she  hoped  neither  Butch  nor  I  felt  we  were  to  blame  for  the  condition  of  the  lawn;  she  hadn't  meant  that  at  all,  she  said,  nor  had  she  meant  that  the  own-  ers  were  to  blame.  She  smiled.  &quot;Winter  is  not  the  best  time  to  view  a  lawn,&quot;  she  said. "