b"gooseneck  lamp  typewriter  pile  of  mss.  typed  sheet  envelopes  imk-bottle  typewriter  eraser  ashtray  12  O'CLOCK  NEWS  As  you  all  know,  tonight  is  the  night  of  the  full  moon,  half  the  world  over.  But  here  the  moon  seems  to  hang  motionless  in  the  sky.  It  gives  very  little  light;  it  could  be  dead.  Visibil-  ity  is  poor.  Nevertheless,  we  shall  tryto  give  you  some  idea  of  the  lay  of  the  land  and  the  present  situation.  The  escarpment  that  rises  abruptly  from  the  central  plain  is  in  heavy  shadow,  but  the  elaborate  terracing  of  its  south-  ern  glacis  gleams  faintly  in  the  dim  light,  like  fish  scales.  What  endless  labor  those  small,  peculiarly  shaped  terraces  rep-  resent!  And  yet,  on  them  the  welfare  of  this  tiny  principality  depends.  A  slight  landslide  occurred  in  the  northwest  about  an  hour  ago.  The  exposed  soil  appears  to  be  of  poor  quality:  almost  white,  calcareous,  and  shaly.  There  are  believed  to  havebeen  no  casualities.  Almost  due  north,  our  aerial  reconnaissance  reports  the  discovery  of  a  large  rectangular  &quot;field,&quot;  hitherto  unknown  to  us,  obviously  man-made.  It  is  dark-speckled.  An  airstrip?  A  cemetery?  In  this  small,  backward  country,  one  of  the  most  back-  ward  left  in  the  world  today,  communications  are  crude  and  &quot;industrialization&quot;  and  its  products  almost  nonexistent.  Strange  to  say,  however,  signboards  are  on  a  truly  gigantic  scale.  We  have  also  received  reports  ofa  mysterious,  oddly  shaped,  black  structure,  at  an  undisclosed  distance  to  the  east.  Its  presence  was  revealed  only  because  its  highly  polished  surface  catches  such  feeble  moonlight  as  prevails.  The  natural  resources  ofthe  country  being  far  from  completely  known  to  us,  there  is  the  possibility  that  this  may  be,  or  may  contain,  some  powerful  and  terrifying  &quot;secret  weapon.&quot;  On  the  oth-  er  hand,  given  what  we  do  know,  or  have  learned  from  our  anthropologists  and  sociologists  about  this  people,  it  may  well  be  nothing  more  than  a  muwmen,  or  a  great  altar  recently  erected  to  one  of  their  gods,  to  which,  in  their  present  his-  torical  state  of  superstition  and  helplessness,  they  attribute  magical  powers,  and  may  even  regard  as  a  &quot;savior,&quot;  one  last  hope  of  rescue  from  their  grave  difficulties.  At  last!  One  of  the  elusive  natives  has  been  spotted!  He  appears  to  be-rather,  to  have  been-a  unicyclist,  courier,  who  may  have  met  his  end  by  falling  from  the  height  of  the  escarpment  because  of  the  deceptive  illumina-  tion.  Alive,  he  would  have  been  small,  but  undoubtedly  proud  and  erect,  with  the  thick,  bristling  black  hair  typical  of  the  indigenes.     From  our  superior  vantage  point,  we  can  clearly  see  into  a  sort  of  dugout,  possibly  a  shell  crater,  a  &quot;nest&quot;  of  soldiers.  They  lie  heaped  together,  wearing  the  camouflage  &quot;battle  dress&quot;  intended  for  &quot;winter  warfare.&quot;  They  are  in  hideously  contorted  positions,  all  dead.  We  can  make  out  at  least  eight  bodies.  These  uniforms  were  designed  to  be  used  in  guerrilla  warfare  on  the  country's  one  snow-covered  mountain  peak.  The  fact  that  these  poor  soldiers  are  wearing  them  kere,  on  the  plain,  gives  further  proof,  if  proof  were  necessary,  either  of  the  childishness  and  hopeless  impracticality  of  this  inscru-  table  people,  our  opponents,  or  of  the  sad  corruption  of  their  leaders."