"VYHAT  TO  DO  NEXT  O.  The  situation  is,  I  agree,  des-  perate.  But  fortunately  I  know  the  proper  way  to  proceed.  That  is  why  I  am  giving  you  these  instruc-  tions.  They  will  save  your  life.  First,  persuade  yourself  that  the  situation  is  not  desperate  (my  instructions  will  save  your  life  only  if  you  have  not  already  hopelessly  compromised  it  by  listening  to  the  instructions  of  others,  or  to  the  whispers  of  your  heart,  which  is  in  itself  suspect,  in  that  it  has  been  taught  how  to  behave-how  to  whis-  per,  even-by  your  mother  and  father,  those  wretches:  How  happy  we  are  that  they  are  no  longer  with  us!  ).  Persuade  yourself,  I  say,  that  your  original  per-  ception  of  the  situation  was  damaged  by  not  having  taken  into  account  all  of  the  variables  (for  example,  my  instruc-  tions)  and  that  the  imminent  disaster  that  hangs  in  the  sky  above  you  can  be,  with  justice,  downgraded  to  the  rank  of  severe  inconvenience  by  the  applica-  tion  of  corrected  thinking.  Do  not  let  what  happened  to  the  dog  weaken  your  resolve.  Yes,  the  dog  is  dead,  I  admit  it.  I'm  sorry.  I  admit  also  that  putting  eight-  foot-square  paintings  of  him  in  every  room  ofthe  house  has  not  consoled  you.  But,  studying  the  paintings,  you  will  notice  after  a  time  that  in  each  painting  the  artist  has  included,  in  the  background,  or  up  in  the  left-hand  corner,  not  only  your  dog  but  other  dogs,  dogs  not  known  to  you-perhaps  dogs  that  were  formerly  friends  of  your  dog  but  that  you  did  not  know  he  knew.  Thus  the  whole  concept&quot;other  dog&quot;  suddenly  thrusts  itself  into  your  consciousness,  and  looking  more  intent-  ly  now  at  those  strange  spaniels,  re-  trievers,  terriers,  you  understand  that  one  of  them,  or  one  very  much  like  one  of  them,  might  just  possibly  be-  come  the  &quot;new  dog&quot;-the  &quot;new  dog&quot;  of  which  you  have  been,  until  now,  afraid  to  think.  For  life  must  go  on,  after  all,  and  that  you  have  been  able  to  think  new  dog  is  already  a  victory,  of  a  kind,  for  the  instructions.  Next,  write  your  will.  I  know  that  you  are  too  young  to  take  this  step,  or  at  least  this  is  what  you  have  al-  ways  told  yourself,  when  will-writing  time  rolled  around;  this  time,  do  it.  Leave  everything  to  your  wife,  if  you  have  one;  or  to  your  old  school,  if  you  have  one.  This  prudent  action,  which  you  would  not  have  taken  had  it  not  been  forthe  instructions,  implies  noth-  ing  about  your  future  health  and  well-  being.  Don't  worry.  Next,  see  your  Loan  Officer,  and  borrow  a  sizable  sum  to  leave  to  people,  for  what  good  is  a  will  if  it  does  not  have  the  strong  arm  of  hard  cash  to  implement  it  with?  You  are  tidying  up,  yes,  but  do  not  per-  mit  this  kind  of  activity  to  frighten  you.  Lose  yourself  in  the  song  of  the  in-  structions,  in  the  precise,  detailed  balm  of  having  had  solved  for  you  that  most  difficult  of  problems,  what  to  do  next.  [REDACTED].  Let  us  proceed.  In  num-  bered  block  8,  enter  the  Federal  Identification  Number  assigned  to  you.  If  you  anticipate  that  a  branch  office  (or  offices)  of  your  identity  will  also  submit  vouchers  as  independent  vend-  ers,  assign  a  digit,  0  through  9,  to  each  office.  If  this  digit  is  then  entered  im-  mediately  following  the  last  digit  of  the  Identification  Number,  the  result-  ing  ten-digit  number  will  serve  as  our  identification  forthe  office  submitting  the  voucher-that  part  of  your  soul  that  lies  buried  (figuratively  speaking)  in  Durango,  for  example.  I  know  this  is  tedious,  but  it  must  be  done.  Now,  housecleaning.  It  is  true  that  what  she  is  saying  doesn't  interest  you  very  much,  but  don't  tell  her  (or,  if  you  are  a  woman,  him-the  instruc-  tions  are  flexible,  the  instructions  do  not  discriminate).  Smile.  Smile  and  tell  her  thatthe  two  of  you  have  come  to  &quot;the  end  of  the  line&quot;-she  is  in-  teresting  but  false.  (It  is  not  true  that  she  is  interesting  but  itis  truethat  she  $7  is  false.)  Your  true  love  lies  elsewhere,  and  always  will.  I  know  that  it's  de-  pressing,  this  maneuver  (she  has  hung  her  shirt  in  your  closet,  and  now  you  must  give  it  back)  but  your  work  is  more  important  than  any  of  these  mere-  ly  temporal  alignments,  which  give  you  someone  to  sleep  with,  yes,  but  on  the  other  hand  require  a  lot  of  smiling-  smiling  that  you  cannot  spare,  if  you  are  to  turn  a  smiling  face  and  a  ready,  acquiescent  nod  to  the  just  demands  ofthe  instructions.  There!  The  thing  is  done.  Lead  her,  weeping,  from  the  closet,  the  green  garment  vou  never  liked  much  dangling  from  one  hand,  and  put  her  on  a  bus.  Goodbye,  Elsie.  I  know  that  you  are  depressed,  but  pay  attention:  the  instructions  have  ar-  ranged  a  diversion  for  you.  Sea  air!  Passage  has  been  booked  in  your  name  to  [REDACTED]  Kong  on  the  Black  Swan,  the  Black  Tulip,  or  the  Tanta  Maru.  Run-  ning  away  from  trouble  is  always  an  excellent  partial  solution,  but  we  an-  ticipate  using  this  tactic  only  tempo-  rarily,  until  other  measures,  still  be-  ing  honed  and  polished  (there  you  are  in  the  crew's  mess,  drinking  anisctte  with  Rudi  and  Hans,  the  crew  mem-  bers  who  have  befriended  you,  and  listening  to  their  stories  about  waves,  to  which  you  respond  a  shade  too  en-  thusiastically,  like  those  people,usually  English,  one  finds  at  a  jazz  place  over-  enjoying  the  music,  their  mouths  open  too  ecstatically,  their  fingerpopping  too  Anglo-Saxon),  are  ready  for  presenta-    " b"  tion  to  the  green  breast  of  the  New  World.  You  need  not  thank  the  in-  structions  just  yet;  they  have  not  com-  pleted  their  designs,  although  they  are  pleased  that  yow  are  pleased  with  the  life  of  the  forecastle,  which  you  would  never  have  tasted  in  all  its  salty  gra-  vidity  had  it  not  been  for  them.  Quickly  now,  avoid  that  other  sticky  development  that  is  developing  on  the  left,  a  hazard  you  would  not  have  identified  had  it  not  been  forthe  sage  wisdom  of  the  instructions,  which  antic-  ipate  everything,  even  their  own  blind  spots,  of  which  they  possess  nota  few.  The  instructions  are,  for  example,  blind  to  (the  hazard  coming  at  you  from  the  left  is  nothing  else  but  a  draft  no-  tice,  and  however  much  you  protest  that  the  draft  has  ceased  and  that  in  any  case  you  have  already  been  drafted  once,  and  have  served  honorably  with  the  Payroll  Corps  in  a  strange  clime  or  two,  you  will  inevitably  suffer  recon-  scription,  as  one  often  does  in  dreams,  and  wander  around  helplessly  shouting  that  you  have  already  been  through  this  once,  a  shout  that  no  one  will  turn  an  ear  to,  unless  you  hastilyscribble  the  word  &quot;Deceased&quot;  across  your  mail-  box  with  this  laundry  marker  that  the  instructions  have  provided  for  you)  the  blandishments  of  the  soft  life,  which  other  sets  of  instructions  uphold,  culti-  vate,  make  possible.  But  that  life  is  not  for  you,  you  do  not  have  the  panache  to  carry  it  off.  You  are  in  fact  a  rather  poor  specimen,  in  some  ways,  and  en-  tering  a  fashionable  hotel  in  Bern  with  an  incredibly  beautiful  woman  on  your  arm,  her  thin  skeleton  curling  toward  you,  and  forty  or  fifty  pieces  of  good  luggage  following,  you  would  only  look  ridiculous.  Where  did  you  pur-  chase  those  trousers?  Trousers  made  out  of  old  rugs  have  not  been  hout  monde  for  two  years.  Remember  Elsie.  Forget  Zo\xc3\xa9.  Stop  plucking  nervously  at  your  rugs.  Pay  attention.  Because  we  are  ready  to  move  to-  ward  the  center  of  your  difficulties,  which  is  the  fact  that  you  are  no  good.  This  great  handicap,  which  many  of  our  best  people  have  labored  under,  is  irrevocable.  This  is  the  nut  of  your  dilemma,  and  to  crack  it  you  must  proceed  in  the  following  way  (remem-  ber  that  you  still  have  a  new  dog  to  buy,  and  a  true  love  to  fail  to  find,  and  while  we  are  at  it  we  have  been  thinking  about  certain  alterations  that  need  to  be  made  on  your  apartment-  a  wall  torn  out  here,  a  soffit  to  be  plas-  tered  there,  the  plumber  summoned  to  make  the  drains  drain,  all  crucial  to  give  to  your  leaning  personality  the  definition  that  it  lamentably  lacks).  The  instructions,  at  this  point,  call  for  a  rewriting  of  your  fundamen-  tal  documents  through  useful  work.  Many  considerations  now  intrude.  Your  former  employment  as  a  pilot  project  for  [REDACTED],  although  possessed  of  some  degree  of  social  worth,  does  not,  in  our  analysis,  finally  qualify.  It  stressed  your  objecthood,  your  exist-  ence  as  vessel,  your  flashlike  qualities,  and  neglected,  to  our  mind,  the  crea-  tive  potentialities  you  might  contain.  We  have  thought  about  possible  alter-  natives.  'The  Bengal  Lancers  are  no  longer  recruiting.  I.B.M.  is  a  very  large  company  but  all  of  the  good  jobs  are  already  taken.  Your  loveof  life  would  seem  to  equip  you  for  a  role  in  &quot;Love  of  Life,&quot;  but,  we  have  discov-  ered,  others,  similarly  equipped,  have  got  there  ahead  of  you.  There  is  a  chief's  rating  open  on  the  Tanta  Maru  and  a  cook's  on  the  Black  Tulip,but  these  have  been  filled  by  Rudi  and  Hans,  who  have  asked  to  be  remem-  bered  to  you.  You  could  become  a  dog  painter  in  the  tradition  of  Landseer,  but  there  are  already  70,000  of  these  in  New  York  City  alone-leadership  in  that  field  is  not  easily  come  by.  Starting  fresh,  as  it  is  called,  requires  that  you  know  the  appropriate  corn  and  rain  dances,  but  also  that  you  can  stand  the  terrific  wrenches  of  the  spirit  that  accompany  frontier-busting,  as  it  " b"is  called.  When  you  change  your  life,  you  also  break  your  back  (or  have  an  equivalent  serious  illness)  within  the  next  twelve  months-that  is  a  statis-  tically  successful  statement.  But  the  instructions  will  protect  you,  more  or  less,  from  these  hazards  (and  it  would  not  surprise  me  if,  at  this  point,  you  wondered  aloud  why  the  instructions  are  being  so  kind  to  you,  specifically  you;  the  answer  is  simple,  you  have  taken  the  trouble  to  read  them).  The  culture  that  we  share,  such  as  it  is,  makes  of  us  all  either  machines  for  assimilating  and  judging  that  culture,  or  uncritical  sops  who  simply  sop  it  up,  become  it.  Clearly  it  is  better  to  be  the  first  than  the  second,  or  at  least  that  is  our  provisional  judgment,  at  this  time.  Because  you  stick  out  from  the  matrix  of  this  culture  like  a  banged  thumb,  swelling  and  reddening  and  otherwise  irrupting  all  over  its  smooth,  eventless  surface,  our  effort  must  be  to  contain  you,  as  would,  for  example,  a  lead  glove.  (Note  your  movement  from  container,  which  you  were  in  your  former  life,  before  you  renewed  yourself,  with  the  aid  of  the  instruc-  tions,  to  contained,  the  latter  a  much  more  active  principle,  lively  and  wroth-  causing-another  success  story  for  the  cunning  and  gay  instructions,  which,  although  they  may  seem  to  you  a  shade  self-congratulatory  and  vain,  are  in  truth  only  right.)  We  have  there-  fore  decided  to  make  you  e  pert  of  the  instructions  themselves-something  other  people  must  complete,  or  go  through,  before  they  reach  theirin-  dividual  niches,  or  thrones,  or  what-  ever  kind  of  plateau  makes  them,  at  least  for  the  time  being,  happy.  Thus,  we  have  specified  that  everyone  who  comes  to  us  from  this  day  forward  must  take  twelve  hours  of  you  a  week,  for  which  they  will  receive  three  points  credit  per  semester,  and,  as  well,  a  silver  spoon  in  the  &quot;Heritage&quot;  pattern.  Don't  hang  back.  We  are  sure  you  are  up  to  it.  Many  famous  teachers  teach  courses  in  themselves;  why  should  you  be  different,  just  because  you  are  a  wimp  and  a  lame,  objectively  speaking?  Courage.  The  anthology  of  yourself  which  will  be  used  as  a  text  is  even  now  being  assembled  by  underpaid  researchers  in  our  textbook  division,  drawing  upon  the  remembrances  of  those  who  hated  you  and  those  (a  much  smaller  number)  who  loved  you,.  You  will  be  adequate  in  your  new  role.  See?  Your  life  is  saved.  The  instructions  do  not  make  distinctions  between  those  lives  which  are  worth  saving  and  those  which  are  not.  Your  life  is  saved.  Con-  gratulations.  I'm  sorry. "