  FOUR  FIGURES  IN  A  HEY  had  sat  down  to  rest.  Both  women  were  tall  and  physically  eloquent.  They  ap-  peared  to  have  been  engaged  in  an  ex-  ploit  which  taxed  them  to  the  utter-  most,  and  they  laid  by  their  violin  bows  as  though  they  were  rapiers.  The  six-year-old  boy  lying  under  the  grand  piano  drawing  an  alligator  glanced  out,  saw  that  Fanny's  small  red  velvet  bolster  lay  on  her  lap  un-  harmed,  and  went  on  drawing.  All  was  well.  &quot;I  can't  play  wi  -hout  it,&quot;  she  had  explained  to  him.  Sometimes-not  very  often  and  only  if  his  hands  were  clean-he  was  allowed  to  stroke  it.  En-  abled  by  the  bolster,  Fanny  played  such  difficult  music  at  concerts  that  people  gave  her  a  great  deal  of  money.  Ludo-  vica  also  played  and  also  got  money  but  hadn't  a  bolster.  They  began  to  talk.  &quot;But  what  are  we  to  do  about  him?  Wouldn't  he  even  listen  when  you'd  gone  all  that  way  tosee  him?&quot;  &quot;He  listened-as  if  he  were  listen-  ing  to  Clementi.  He  even  patted  my  hand  and  said,  'Dear  child.  I  might  as  well  have  talked  to  the  waves.  They  come  much  closer  to  the  house  than  they  used  to.&quot;  &quot;But  you  could  do  nothing  with  him?&quot;  &quot;Fanny!  How  long  is  it  since  any-  one  could  do  anything  with  Father?&quot;  &quot;You  did,  once-when  you  got  the  betterof  him  about  the  cello.&quot;  &quot;And  that  was  forty-three  years  ago.)7  &quot;Almost  to  the  day.  He  had  given  you  a  larger  one  for  your  birthday  present;  it  had  been  unpacked  and  lay  on  the  sofa.  Your  twelfth  candle  had  just  been  lit.  You  took  the  cake  in  both  hands  and  banged  it  down  on  the  bridge,&quot;  By  the  time  Donald  [REDACTED]  had  hoisted  himself  up  in  the  world  and  owned  the  Bonnie  Charlie  Marine  Stores  it  was  too  late  for  him  to  study  the  violin.  His  daughter  Fanny  was  put  to  do  so  in  his  stead-a  promising  pupil.  It  followed  his  second  daughter  should  learn  the  cello.  Ludovica  learned  quick-  ly,  was  inherently  more  musical  than  her  sister;  and  studied  with  contempt.  Fanny's  violin  bewitched  her;  she  would  have  nothing  but  the  violin.  Life  had  not  prepared  Donald  [REDACTED]  to  be  worsted.  He  fell  into  a  granite  rage  and  went  for  a  voyage  round  the  world,  Pride  compelled  him  to  have  them  well  taught  even  while  he  taunt,  ed  himself  with  rearing  a  circus  act,  the  fiddling  [REDACTED]  Sisters.  They  made  their  d\xc3\xa9but  together  in  an  unac-  ROOM.  A  DISTANT  FIGURE  companied  Duo  Concertante  by  Spohr.  Constructed  from  their  aquiline  noses  to  their  sturdy  insteps  to  the  ideal  spec-  ification  for  concert  violinists,  their  vo-  cation  was  plain.  Prompted  by  the  story  of  the  birth-  day  cake,  the  boy  under  the  grand  pi-  ano  gave  the  alligator  chocolate  and  pistachio  stripes.  &quot;Butwhat  does  he  do  with  himself  on  that  pocket  island?&quot;  &quot;It's  not  really  an  island,  you  know,  except  at  high  tide.  And  he  does  a  great  many  things  and  all  to  aregular  time-  table.  He's  got  a  weathervane  and  a  rain  gauge  and  several  barometers  and  keeps  a  weather  diary.  Twice  a  week  he  bakes.  Every  day  he  goes  out  and  gathers  driftwood.  He  washes  and  irons  and  keeps  the  house  like  a  new  pin.  He  knits.  He  sings.&quot;  Sings!&quot;  .  Ye  banks  and  braes.&quot;  He  catches  fish  and  snares  rabbits  and  dresses  their  skins  and  reads  'Paradise  Lost.&quot;  Never  an  idle  moment.&quot;  &quot;Does  he  see  anyone?&quot;  &quot;'The  oil  van  comes  out  once  a  week  with  letters  and  groceries.&quot;  &quot;Does  he  look  older?&quot;  &quot;A  great  deal  older.&quot;  The  room  was  warm  and  smelled  of  chrysanthemums,  and  from  the  street,  far  below,  the  grow!  of  traffic  swelled  up  into  their  silence.  Alligators  live  in  swamps.  But  he  had  used  up  all  the  best  greens.  'This  should  be  a  sea  alligator,  sitting  on  an  island  like  the  very  old  man  they  talked  about-for  as  he  was  their  father  he  must  be  very  old  in-  deed.  Ludovica  took  up  a  sheet  of  manu-  script  music  and  made  a  face  at  it.  &quot;I  don't  know  how  he  thinks  I'm  going  to  get  a  mute  on  in  the  time.  You'll  have  to  hang  on  to  your  harmonic.&quot;  &quot;He  has  no  notion  how  to  write  for  strings.  But  one  must  be  grateful  for  small  mercies;  there's  not  much  writ-     ten  for  two  violins  nowa-  days.  One  has  to  keep  up.  And  he's  got  some  ideas.  We  can  do  something  with  it-if  he'll  let  us.&quot;  &quot;He  seemed  a  meek  enough  little  MacRabbit  when  Klaus  introduced  him.&quot;  &quot;Meek?  With  that  dedication?  'For  Fanny  and  Ludovica'  Our  Christian  names  and  not  so  much  as  a  by-your-  leave.&quot;  &quot;The  young  are  like  that.  No  sur-  names.  No  key  signatures.&quot;  &quot;No  manners.  How  much  longer  is  he  going  to  keep  us  waiting?&quot;  &quot;Well,  while  he  does,  let's  get  on  with  Father.  We  can't  leave  him  there  through  another  winter.  There  must  be  some  way  of  persuading  him.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  any  way  to  persuade  a  limpet  off  a  rock?  'That's  what  he  was  like,  Fanny.  A  limpet.&quot;  &quot;Limpets  must  come  off  occasion-  ally.  When  we  were  children  we  used  to  pick  up  their  shells.&quot;  &quot;Dead.&quot;  &quot;What's  a  limpet?&quot;  asked  the  boy.  They  took  up  their  instruments  and  went  back  to  the  opening,  which  was  tricky.  Without  ceasing  to  play,  Fanny  said,  &quot;One  has  to  admit  it,  he's  brave.&quot;  JULIUS  MorLEy  stepped  out  of  the  elevator  into  a  world  of  his  own  music.  The  &quot;Dialogue  for  Two  Vio-  lins&quot;  was  proceeding,  and  this  was  the  first  time  he  had  heard  it.  He  was  overwhelmed  by  its  beauty,  its  fitness;  appalled  by  its  fleetingness.  Perform-  ance  did  that,  then?-made  actual  and  dismissed?  He  had  not  thought  of  it  so.  It  had  seemed  boundless,  a  totality.  But  it  would  be  over  before  its  hearers  had  time  to  admire  it.  Occasional  pas-  sages  disconcerted  him;  it  was  as  if  they  had  got  in  by  accident  from  an  earlier  composition.  And  then  it  was  beautiful  again,  infallibly  logical,  going  its  mysterious  way.  Suppose  I  were  run  over  on  my  way  back  to  Hammersmith,  ke  thought.  I  might  never  hear  it  again.  He  unboxed  the  tape  recorderhe  had  brought  with  him  and  began  to  record.  Immediate-  ly,  all  his  pleasure  went;  he  could  hear  nothing  except  the  defects  of  the  per-  formance.  He  rang  the  bell.  The  music  ceased.  The  door  was  opened  by  a  small  boy,  and  he  went  in.  His  heart  did  not  sink;  he  felled  it.  They  were  impossible-professional  circus  horses,  pillars  of  the  Establish-  ment.  They  advancedon  him,  capa-  bility  personified,  and  were  delighted  to  see  him.  They  thought  his  music  so  original.  They  hoped  he  wouldn't  mind  if  they  made  one  or  two  small  sug-  gestions,  just  for  technical  reasons,  rea-  " b"sons  of  performance.  How  could  he  have  imagined  these  worldly  harpies  matched  to  his  music,  administrators  of  his  treasure-  cooked  them  up  into  his  destined  Fanny  and  Ludovica,  fatal-  ly  dedicated  the  &quot;Dialogue&quot;  to  them?  A  spring  evening,  an  empty  stomach,  the  skirl  of  gulls  as  he  crossed  the  river  to  the  Festival  Hall,  the  grieving  sea-  bird  fifths  falling  through  the  close  of  the  Overture  to  &quot;Ido-  meneo,&quot;  two  women  distanced  on  a  platform-two  porpoises  in  bags  could  have  overthrown  him  that  night,  playing  the  Bach  Concerto.  &quot;This  scale  passage  would  come  out  with  more  effect  ifit  were  divided  between  the  two  violins,  for  instance,  and-&quot;  &quot;Shall  we  deal  with  them  as  we  come  to  them?&quot;  he  said.  From  his  lair  under  the  piano  (it  had  become  a  lair)  the  boy  watched  the  clock.  If  his  Miss  Belton  got  back  in  time  to  take  him  down  to  the  restaurant  for  tea  But  she  had  gone  on  a  bus  to  visit  her  mother,  who  lived  in  Greenwich;  she  might  be  late.  The  minute  might  have  arrived.  They  had  been  playing  this  piece  over  and  over;  he  knew  quite  well  when  the  minute  was  com-  ing.  First  they  grunted,  loudly  and  mournfully,  one  contradicting  the  oth-  er.  Then  Ludovica  was  left  grunting  alone,  while  Fanny  squirmed  up-and  up-and  up,  and  arched  her  eyebrows,  and  produced  an  unearthly  squeal  like  a  sweetened  gimlet,  and  Ludovica  said,  &quot;Blast  his  eyes!&quot;  and  snatched  her  mute.  And  then  it  would  have  arrived:  his  throat  would  stiffen,  ice  would  form  on  his  skin,  he  would  begin  to  cry.  This  afternoon  it  seemed  that  the  bus  from  Greenwich  was  bound  to  win.  Their  MacRabbit  man  did  noth-  ing  but  interrupt  and  disagree  and  say  they  had  not  understood.  And  then  they  played  the  bit  over  again,  loudly  and  neatly,  and  asked  if  that  was  what  he  wanted;  and  he  said  it  wasn't.  Their  voices  grew  crosser  and  haugh-  tier,  and  his  grew  quieter;  and  if  it  had  not  been  for  what  lay  ahead  if  Miss  Belton  did  not  come  in  time,  it  would  have  been  fun  to  watch  Fanny  and  Ludovica  having  to  do  what  they  were  told.  Checked  and  goaded,  the  music  was  driven  on.  They  had  got  to  the  growls,  Fanny  had  squirmed  up-  ward,  attained  her  squeal-  &quot;Excuse  me.  No  rellentando.&quot;  They  argued  and  argued.  Then  Fanny  went  over  to  the  enemy. &quot;  &quot;Get  it  on  somehow,  Ludovica!  We  can't  stay  fooling  about  till  midnight.&quot;  The  squeal  hung  on  the  air,  bright-  ened  like  a  soap  bubble,  thinned,  turned  downward  like  a  sigh,  and  was  gone.  Beneath  it  the  muted  voice  had  set  out  on  its  ghostly  wandering.  He  felt  his  throat  stiffen,  ice  form  on  his  skin.  It  was  the  voice  of  something  eternally  lonely  and  destitute  and  blind.  It  probed  his  flesh.  Tears  streamed  down  his  face  as  he  wept  for  joy.  T  was  because  of  this  coda  with  its  swaying  five-beat  ground  bass  that  Julius  Morley  had  at  one  time  thought  of  calling  the  work  &quot;Full  Fathom  Five.&quot;  The  Ludovica  one  did  not  play  too  badly,  and  the  mute  obscured  her  professional  alacrity.  He  waited  un-  easily  for  the  entrance  of  the  unmuted  Fanny,  who  had  to  slide  in  on  an  off-  beat  (slide,  not  collide)  and  thread  her  shifting  tonalities  through  the  ground  bass.  He  scarcely  noticed  how  she  did  it,  for  a  moment  earlier  he  had  been  transfixed  by  a  conviction  that  another  listener  had  come  into  the  room.  Cov-  ertly  glancing  round  for  another  pair  of  legs  he  saw  the  boy  under  the  piano  and  that  his  face  was  rigid  with  ecstasy  and  glittering  with  tears.  &quot;Another  of  us,&quot;  he  said  proudly  to  himself.  &quot;Poor  brat!&quot;  The  unmuted  violin  began  to  take  its  farewells  of  the  ground  bass,  which  after  the  seventh  farewell  would  go  on  its  way  alone,  semza  diminuendo,  till  it  stopped,  insignificantly,  like  a  clock.  The  fifth  emotion.  &quot;Excuse  me-&quot;  They  ignored  him  and  went  on  to  the  end.  &quot;You  were  going  to  say-&quot;  Ignoring  them,  he  got  up  and  walked  across  to  the  piano.  The  boy  saw  him  stoop,  almost  as  though  he  meant  to  get  under,  too.  fr  &quot;Do  you  like  it?&quot;  His  voice  was  seri-  ous;  at  first  sight  he  looked  just  as  a  Mr.  MacRabbit  should-snub-nosed,  with  furry  cheeks  and  an  innocent  ex-  pression.  On  closer  view,  his  face  was  savage  and  anxious,  as  all  grown-up  faces  are.  "