THE  PEOPLE'S  SHOPPER  SHOP  THE  CO-  OP  WAY  AND  SA  VE!  THESE  FINE  PEOPLES  ARE  HAPPY  TO  SERVE  YOU  Tur  Wuorr  WurErar  Foop  Co-op  The  WWFC  Coordinating  Council  has  approved  the  following  statement  for  publication.  The  Council  voted  on  the  statement  line-by-line,  and  where  the  vote  was  not  unanimous  the  minori-  ty  opinion  appears  in  brackets.  WHOLE  WHEAT  FLOUR  Ground  on  Our  Own  Millstone  12\xc2\xa2  lb.  [8\xc2\xa2]  ORANGES  6\xc2\xa2  ea.  MILK  39\xc2\xa2  1%  gal.  82\xc2\xa2  gal.  [What's  the  markup  for-the  pleas-  ure  of  your  company?  78\xc2\xa2]  CARROTS  15\xc2\xa2  Ib.  [The  carrots  are  not  too  crisp  be-  cause  the  big  honchos  in  this  so-called  organization  don't  know  how  to  call  an  electrician  to  fix  the  cooler,  which  has  not  worked  for  six  weeks  now.  In  fact,  it's  like  a  steam  pit  in  there.  If  the  &quot;co-  ordinators&quot;  would  come  around  once  in  awhile  they  might  find  out  about  these  things.  The  oranges  are  shrivelled  up,  also  the  lettuce,  and  the  carrots  are  like  rubber.  Organic  or  not,I  wouldn't  feed  it  to  apes.  Diane.]  HOME  MADE  YOGHURT  Delicious  75\xc2\xa2  gt.  [4nyone  who  can  in  good  con-  science  sell  this  stuff  for  75\xc2\xa2  should  be  forced  to  eat  it.]  ACORN  SQUASH  30\xc2\xa2  ea.  [I  will  not  accept  more  than  21  \xc2\xa2  per  squash  and  I  am  giving  away  the  bread  and  milk  free  until  this  group  shows  a  little  more  sensitivity  to  the  women,  who  do  about  2/3rds  of  the  work.  That's  no  lie  either.  I  am  at  the  store  1-4  pm.  Mondays  and  5-8  Thursdays-the  tall  woman  with  reddish  hair  and  glasses.  See  me  for  bargains.  Marcia.  ]  SHARP  CHEDDAR  80\xc2\xa2  Ib.  [Stuff  it  in  your  ear,  hippie  ripoff  art-  ist!  We're  busting  out  of  this  pukehole!  ]  SUPPORT  [THE  BOYCOTT  OF]  YOUR  NEIGHBORHOOD  CO-OP!  Propu\xc2\xae's  Canopy  CoLLEctTIvE  Last  August,  five  of  us  pulled  out  of  the  Whole  Wheat  Co-op  to  form  the  Collective.  Hope  fully  this  article  wi  ll  try  to  explain  w  hat  we're  doing  and  where  we  go  from  he  re.  At  Whole  Wheat  we  were  making  sesame-seed  cakes  and  oat  balls.  We  enjoyed  our  work,  but  we  wanted  to  bra  nch  out  into  wholesome  chocolates  and  nut  bars.  This  pro  ved  to  be  trau-  matic  forthe  Co-op  h  iera  rchy,  which  was  into  macrobiotic  and  organic  gar-  denin  g,  the  whole  \xc3\xa9liti  st  grocery  bag.  They  took  the  position  that  candy  is  bad  for  the  people,  it  ruins  their  te  eth  ,  spoils  their  appetite,  e  tc.  Finally,  we  split.  Ou  r  purpose  was  to  set  up  a  candy  store  where  the  decision-making  would  be  shared  by  the  whole  commu  n  ity  and  everyone  could  c  ontribu  t  e  his  idea  s.  First,  we  visited  the  existing  candy  store  in  the  neighborhood,  Yaklich's.  We  as  sur  ed  Mr.  Yaklich  and  his  son  Baron  that  our  intention  was  to  coop-  erate,  not  compete,  an  d  w  e  agreed  not  to  sell  cigarettes,  ci  gars,  newspapers,  magazines,  or  adult  books,  which  they  are  very  much  into.  They  are  also  in  to  poin  t  spreads,  and  we  agree  d  not  to  do  that,  either.  Second,  we  tr  ied  to  get  some  Indian,  black,  and  Chicano  representation  (of  which  there  was  none)  in  the  Collec-  37  tive,  but  that  was  a  problem,  since  there  was  none  in  the  neighborhood,  either,  and  attendance  at  our  meetings  would've  meant  a  long  ride  on  the  bus  for  them.  Finally,  we  began  soliciting  commu-  nity  input.  We  began  at  the  nearby  grade  school,  where  we  met  a  lot  of  people  who,  though  unfamiliar  with  the  theory  of  running  a  collective,  were  very  helpful  and  gave  us  a  lot  of  new  ideas.  They  suggested  such  things  as  licorice  whips,  nougat  bars,  sourballs,  jawbreakers,  bubble  gum,  soda  pop,  frozen  delights,  cupcakes,  and  Twin-  kies.  These  are  yet  to  be  discussed,  but  it  appears  we  have  several  alternatives:  To  go  back  to  Whole  Wheat,  to  help  the  grade-school  community  set  up  its  own  candy  collective,  or  to  serve  them  and  their  needs  in  order  to  create  a  broader  base  of  support  within  which  we  can  seek  to  familiarize  them  with  where  we  are  at.  We  invite  anyone  concerned  to  stop  by  the  store  (upstairs  from  the  Universal  Joint).  Sr.  Paut's  EpIscoPaAL  Drop-In  Ha  CENTER  If  you've  decided  to  get  a  haircut,  that's  your  decision,  but  why  go  to  a  straight  barber  and  pay  $3.50  for  a  lot  of  bad  jokes?  Come  to  St.  Paul's  Hair  Center  (in  the  rectory  basement)  where  Rev.  Ray  and  Rev.  Don  are     " b"38  waiting  to  see  you.  The  price  is  right  on  and  the  rap  is  easy.  Ray  and  Don  are  trained  barbers,  but  more  than  that  they  know  how  hard  this  move  can  be  and  offer  warm  supportive  pre-  and  post-trim  counselling.  'They're  people-  oriented,  not  hair-oriented,  and  if  you  just  want  to  come  in  and  talk  about  haircuts,  well,  that's  cool,  too.  Propua\xc2\xaeE's  MrEats  Most  of  us  accept  strict  vegetarian-  ism  as  the  best  way,  but  many  find  it  difficultto  change  their  eating  habits.  People's  Meats  is  an  interim  solution.  All  of  our  meat  comes  from  animals  who  were  unable  to  care  for  themselves  any  longer.  Hoping  to  phase  out  the  operation,  we  do  not  advertise  hours,  prices,  or  location.  We  do  not  deliver.  PropLE's  UsEp  FURNITURE  One  sign  of  what's  going  on  in  our  society  is  the  trend  toward  larger  and  harder  beds.  Queen-size,  king-size,  wider,  firmer-beds  that  resemble  a  flat  plain  and  the  sleepers  ships  passing  in  the  night,  not  knowing  one  another  at  all.  We  reject  that  kind  of  sleep  with  our  Warm  Valley  Bed.  It  is  built  narrow  and  soft  and  shaped  like  a  trough,  gently  urging  its  occupants  toward  the  middle,  to  spend  the  night  in  each  other's  arms.  No  matter  how  hard  you  fight  it  (and  we  all  do),  the  Warm  Valley  Bed  brings  the  two  of  you  together  into  warm  mutually  rein-  forcing  physical  contact.  The  bed  of  commitment.  Specify  depth.  Tur  Universar  Joint  Garace  &amp;  Bopy  Snor  The  way  it  is  at  the  U.J.  is  like  the  five  of  us,  Sully,  Bill,  Butch,  Duke,  and  Bud,  we're  totally  together  because  we  stay  high  together  and  when  you  come  in  with  your  car,  say  the  car  is  really  bummed  out  and  won't  even  start,  be-  fore  we  even  touch  that  car  we're  going  to  sit  down  with  you  and  get  you  up  there  together  with  us.  Now,  a  lot  of  folks  can't  dig  that.  They  say,  &quot;Here's  my  car.  When  can  you  fix  it?'&quot;  or  some  other  kind  of  linear  crap.  Well,  we  just  got  to  talk  that  person  loose.  Because  we  are  not  in  that  fix  matrix  at  all.  We  say,  &quot;We're  not  there  yet.  We're  here.&quot;  Or  we  say,  &quot;You  on  a  wrench  trip?  O.K.,  here's  a  wrench!&quot;  But  that's  not  where  he's  at  or  the  car  either,  and  on  a  simple  planetary  level  they  both  know  it.  The  car  and  him  are  one  circuit,  one  continuum,  and  the  ignition  switch  is  right  there  in  his  head.  Like  we  say,  &quot;'The  key  is  not  the  key!  Tools  are  not  the  tools!&quot;   So  what  we  do  is  get  very  loose  and  very  easy  and  very  high.  The  after-  noon  goes  by  and  the  whole  shop  is  like  suspended  up  there  in  its  own  holding  pattern,  we're  all  sitting  around  listen-  ing  to  the  leak  in  the  air  hose  and  digging  it,  and  slowly  that  person  gets  to  copping  to  that  car  through  us.  It's  tremendous,  a  stone-you  feel  the  energy  really  flowing.  So  we're  all  sitting  there  revving  on  that  and  then     -Joun  UPDIKE  the  car  starts  to  get  off  on  it  and  pretty  soon  that  car  gets  going.  Sometimaes  it  starts  by  itself,  other  times  we  got  to  do  some  laying  on  of  hands,  but  it's  going.  Wide  open,  you  can  feel  it  vibrating.  So  all  that  comes  right  back  to  us.  Like  the  car  is  going  rimmm-  rmmm-rmmm  and  we're  going  rmmm-  rmmmm-rmmm,  and  the  next  thing  you  know  that  person  gets  in  the  car  and  he  just  like  takes  of!  Which  was  his  Karma  all  this  time-to  go.  Like  he  was  in  this  place,  now  he's  in  another  place,  pretty  soon  he'll  be  somewhere  else,  and  so  on,  but  you  know,  it's  all  one  road.  Tur  Puaxrom  Sromace  ALTERNA-  TIvE  Carg  The  Stomach  originated  as  a  study  group  within  the  Whole  Wheat  Co-op,  for  people  interested  in  vegetables  as  a  tool  in  therapy.  We  were  somewhat  di-  " b"vided  between  eggp  lan  t  a  nd  kohlrabi,  but  we  got  along  pretty  we  ll.  All  of  us  felt  that  cating  vegetables  helped  us  f  ree  ourselves  from  authoritarian  life-  systems  and  become  more  self-sufficient  and  h  onest  with  ourselves  a  nd  more  whole  .  Wholeness  was  the  key.  But  as  we  pushed  it  farther  we  came  to  feel  that  vegetables  were  me  rely  raising  us  to  a  higher  ego-level  that  was  rather  empty  an  d  inte  lle  ctual.  We  felt  w  hole  but  we  didn't  feel  full.  It  was  then  that  we  discovered  &quot;the  other  stomach.&quot;  The  group  was  on  a  five  -day  fast  in  order  to  get  beyond  food  and  o  nto  a  di  ffe  re  nt  thought  plane  where  we  could  meditate  with  our  stom-  achs  and  find  out  what  they  wanted.  One  night  we  went  up  to  the  roof  of  an  apar  tment  build-  ing  to  cool  off,  and  as  we  lay  there  we  saw  a  great  membrane  de-  scending  from  th  e  sky.  The  me  mbrane  shone  with  a  pale  moist  light.  As  it  cam  e  near,  we  saw  hamburgers  in  it,  a  thousand  of  them,  and  pizzas-pepperoni,  sau  -     sage,  anchovy-and-sau-  sage,  mushroom-along  with  French  fries,  Cokes,  onion  rings,  Big  Macs,  Pronto  Pups,  chow  mein,  Reubens,  malts,  frosted  dough-  nuts,  buttered  popcorn-  everything  right  there  within  reach.  We  heard  tremendous  bursts  of  thunder  from  the  mem-  brane,  and  then  a  voice  said,  &quot;Eat!&quot;  We  said,  &quot;But  we  can't.  We're  fasting,  and  besides  it's  not  our  kind  of  food.&quot;  And  it  said  again,  louder,  &quot;Eat!&quot;  So  we  did-the  stuff  looked  good-  and  to  our  surprise,  it  was  good.  It  was  hot  and  tasty  and  crisp,  and  the  more  we  ate  the  more  there  was  of  it,  We  kept  saying,  &quot;It  is  our  thing,  it  is  our  thing!&quot;  Because  we'd  never  felt  that  way  before.  A  spreading  circle  of  warmth  from  the  stomach  to  all  parts  of  the  body.  A  great  calorie  rush.  The  next  night,  the  membrane  came  again.  This  time,  we'd  invited  all  of  our  friends.  Hundreds  of  people  joined  in  the  feast.  There  was  enough  for  everyone,  and  we  became  aware  of     a  very  profound  physical  sensation  that  we  never  got  from  vegies.  Now  we  know:  Around  the  little  vegetable  stomach  there  is  a  second  and  much  greater  stomach,  which  eggplant  can-  not  satisfy.  This  second  stomach  is  the  whole  body,  As  the  voice  said  to  us  the  second  night,  &quot;You  are  not  what  you  eat.  You  are  eating.&quot;  You  only  realize  that  if  you  eat  the  right  food.  We're  trying  to  carry  out  this  phi-  losophy  in  our  caf\xc3\xa9.  We  sell  burgers  that  make  people  listen  to  themselves  and  understand  themselves  and  we  got  a  machine  that  turns  out  a  single  con-  tinuous  French  fry.  The  endless  potato. When  there  are  no  customers  in  the  place,  we  like  to  open  the  front  door  and  let  the  French  fry  go  out  into  the  community  to  make  contact  with  peo-  ple.  Some  of  them,  like  us,  have  eaten  their  way  back  to  the  beginning.  "