THE  SLIM  GRAVES  SHOW  and  His  Blue  Movers  lost  their  5  a.M.  Powdermilk  Biscuit  ra-  dio  show  because  Wingo  succumbed  to  the  lure  of  the  open  road,  I  intended  to  complain  to  the  sponsor  because  I  had  liked  them  so  much.  You'd  think  at  least  Powdermilk  would  have  let  the  Movers  (a  fine  band)  have  a  crack  at  it  on  their  own,  but  first  I  decided  to  give  the  new  show  a  chance.  It  was  &quot;The  Slim  Graves  Show,&quot;  and,  like  all  the  previous  5  [REDACTED]  Powdermilk  shows  (six  in  the  last  two  years),  consisted  of  the  weather  and  livestock  reports,  letters  from  listeners,  and  about  four  songs-in  their  case,  a  solo  by  Slim  or  his  wife,  Billie  Ann  T  wyman,  a  duet,  an  instrumental  se-  lection,  and  a  hymn.  Soon  I  had  to  admit  that  Slim  and  his  band,  the  Southland  Sheiks,  were  the  best  in  every  way.  Though  Slim's  bass  fiddle  was  featured  too  often,  in  my  opinion,  the  band  was  excellent-  especially  the  lead  guitarist,  Courteous  Carl  Harper  the  Guitar  Man.  When  he  played  &quot;Orange  Blossom  Special&quot;  of  &quot;Dill  Pickle  Rag&quot;  or  any  other  difficult  number,  he  really  tore  it  apart,  you  couldn't  believe  it  was  one  person.  Slim  and  Billie  Ann  were  extremely  good  vocalists,  and  there  was  enough  talk  so  you  got  to  know  the  people  personally.  &quot;'You  are  my  favorite  band  at  present  and  I  look  forward  to  hearing  your  show  every  morn-  ing,&quot;  I  wrote  to  them.  &quot;Keep  up  the  good  work.  [REDACTED]  This  is  the  first  fan  letter  I  ever  wrote.&quot;  Slim  opened  the  show  cach  day  by  whistling  &quot;Only  A  Pal.&quot;  Then  he'd  say  something  like  this:  &quot;Good  morning,  friends  and  neighbors,  it's  time  for  SLIM  GRAVES  and  the  South-  land  Sheiks  for  POW-  DERMILE  BISCUITS--  heavens,  they're  tasty  -with  more  of  that  good  old-time  music,  so  rise  and  shine,  sit  up  and  howl,  there's  DAYLIGHT  IN  THE  SWAMPS!&quot;  and  the  band  swung  into  &quot;''The  Slim  Graves  Spe-  cial.&quot;  All  went  well  fora  few  weeks  and  it  seemed  nothing  could  stop  them,  but  of  course  human  na-  ture  will  always  take  l  AST  summer,  when  Wingo  Beals     over  in  the  end,  and  underneath  the  great  music  there  soon  was  plenty  of  heartbreak  for  everyone.  At  first,  you  began  to  notice  how  Billie  Ann  was  get-  ting  down  on  Slim  and  making  remarks  about  him.  She  called  him  &quot;Old  Horse-  face-hope  there  aren't  any  horses  lis-  tening&quot;&quot;  and  said  he  was  hewed  from  native  timber  but  the  axe  slipped.  A  little  photo  of  them  was  on  the  Powdermilk  box.  Billie  Ann  was  fairly  young  and  good-looking,  though  fat.  Slim  was  perhaps  fifty  or  fifty-five  vears  of  age  and  looked  like  he'd  been  in  a  bad  accident  and  not  been  sewn  up  right,  his  face  was  kind  of  shoved  together.  The  handsomest  one  (of  course)  was  Courteous  Carl,  and  of  course  Billie  Ann  fell  for  him  like  a  box  of  rocks.  She  and  Slim  had  been  on  the  road  so  long,  now  at  last  they  had  a  little  cabin  home,  but  she  couldn't  settle  down.  I  remember  a  song  ofhers  called  &quot;Don't  Be  A  Dog  In  My  Manger,&quot;  in  which  she  made  it  quite  clear  she  could  have  more  fun  without  him,  which  wasn't  surprising  seeing  as  &quot;His  Whiskey's  90  Proof  And  HisLove's  15.&quot;  Oct.  29:  Surprise.  Courteous  Carl  sings  (not  bad,  either).  Today  he  sang,  &quot;Let's  be  friends  and  forget  about  the  past-something  something  last-   there's  nothing  you  can  do,  she  walked  away  from  you-something  some-  thing-forgive  me  for  I  know  she's  yours  but  loyalty  don't  open  many  doors,  and  though  we  know  marriage  is  made  above  we're  not  ashamed  to  be  in  love.&quot;  So  it  was  out  in  the  open  in  plain  sight.  Naturally,  the  listeners  wrote  in  their  comments,  and  in  the  following  days  Slim  read  all  the  letters  on  the  air,  even  when  it  meant  squeezing  out  the  hymn.  &quot;Can't  you  see  Billie  Ann  is  trying  to  tell  you  to  pay  more  attention  to  her  and  show  her  your  love?&quot;  one  person  wrote.  &quot;I  know  that  if  you  do  she'll  come  back  fast.  This  happened  to  me  and  my  husband  about  four  years  ago.&quot;  But  others  threatened  Billie  Ann  (and  Carl)  with  personal  harm.  One  woman  said  she'd  tear  Billie  Ann's  hair  out  if  she  got  the  chance.  Though  Slim  didn't  say  much,  he  made  it  plain  to  Billie  Ann  that  he  knew  she  was  cheating  on  him.  In  one  song,  he  named  them  by  name  and  said,  &quot;She  only  pretended  to  love  me  and  Carl'll  never  be  happy  because  he'll  always  wonder  if  Billie  Ann'll  walk  out  on  him  just  as  she  did  to  old  Slim.&quot;  Then  he  sang,  &quot;  'She  cut  up  my  heart  with  a  knife  and  took  the  joy  from  out  my  life,  She  Gets  Pleasure  From  See-  ing  Me  Cry.?  &quot;  It  seemed  like  Carl  pledge  of  love  to  Billie  every  morning  now,  replacing  Slim  in  thebig  duct  spot,  but  while  Billie  sang  with  Carl,  she  was  still  in  the  Powdermilk  commer-  cials  with  Slim,  fixing  the  golden-brown  biscuits  for  him  as  if  nothing  was  wrong  with  their  mar-  riage.  You  just  knew  it  couldn't  go  on.  renewed  his  Finally,  around  Christmastime,  blood  be-  gan  to  tell.  Christmas  made  Billie  Ann  remem-  ber  her  childhood  home  and  the  promise  she'd  made  to  her  folks  to  be  more  like  Jesus  every  day.  She  certainly  wasn't  getting  any  closer  this  way.  She  spent  Christ-  mas  Day  in  a  bus  depot  holding  a  ticket  to  her  home  town  of  Tulare-  mo,  Ark.  &quot;I  heard  them  call  departure  from  Gate  3,&quot;  she  recalled,  &quot;but  I  was  blinded  by  the  tears  of  misery.&quot;  Slim  kept  at  Billie,  re-  minding  her  of  what  had  " b"been  theirs,  the  hopes  and  dreams  they'd  shared,  and  the  vows  they'd  made  in  that  little  country  church  so  long  ago.  And  their  little  daughter,  in  her  innocent  way,  drove  the  message  home  in  &quot;A-D-U-L-T-E-R-Y  (Don't  Say  That  Word,  It  Makes  Me  Cry).&quot;  One  morning,  she  asked  her  mother,  &quot;What  is  that  word  that  begins  with  'A'  that  Daddy  saidto  you?&quot;  &quot;It's  a  word,  LaVerne,  that  big  folks  say  that  means  I've  been  untrue,&quot;  Billie  Ann  replied,  weeping.  She  was  tormented,  you  could  hear  it  in  her  voice.  She  loved  Carl  but  you  knew  she  was  drawn  to  Slim  and,  in  that  part  of  her  that  needed  someone  to  look  after  her,  couldn't  live  without  him.  Carl  was  bright  lights,  liquor,  and  loud  music.  Slim  was  home.  And  yet  shedid  love  Carl  and  the  way  he  made  her  feel  good.  But  Carl  has  loved  oth-  ers  and,  like  her,  is  of  the  wandering  kind.  Slim  only  has  her,  he's  said  more  than  once  he'll  always  be  true  to  her.  Though,  of  course,  Carl  has,  too.  Jaw.  10:  In  desperation,  Billie  Ann  T  wyman  asksthe  radio  audience  to  de-  cide  which  man  is  right  for  her.  We  are  to  buy  a  box  of  Powdermilk  Bis-  cuit  Mix  with  the  picture  of  the  man  we  favor  on  the  flap.  Jaw.  12:  After  giving  it  much  thought,  I  have  bought  a  Courteous  Carl  box.  My  reasons  are  as  follows:  While  I  admire  Slim,  I  feel  that  Carl  is  a  better  man  for  her.  He  is  going  places  and  can  advance  her  career  in  addition  to  making  her  happy.  Second-  ly,  I  don't  believe  she  can  return  to  Slim  and  have  things  be  the  same  as  before.  Three,  people  do  change  and  we  should  learn  to  accept  it.  Accord-  ing  to  the  grocer,  I  am  by  no  means  in  the  minority.  People  are  quietly  buying  up  the  Carl  biscuits.  He  tells  how  a  man'll  come  in  and  buy  one  for  old  Slim  and  make  abig  speech  about  it,  and  later  his  wife'll  come  in  and  get  ten  or  twelve  for  Carl.  Jaw.  17:  Today  Billie  Ann  was  going  to  announce  the  results.  Billie  Ann:  &quot;First  of  all,  I  want  to  tell  you  how  much  I  appreciate  your  letters  and  your  prayers  at  this  difficult  time  and  your  interest  as  shown  in  the  number  of  people  who  have  taken  the  opportunity  to  vote.  I  have  never  felt  so  torn  before.  I  know  I  have  done  wrong  and  can  never  make  it  up  to  Slim,  and  yet  my  love  for  Carl  is  deep  and  sincere  and  has  been  very  rewarding.  I  feel  I  owe  it  to  myself,  and  to  you,  to  give  us  another  week  in  which  to  think  about  it.&quot;  Carl:  &quot;Just  want  to  thank  all  who  voted  for  me  and  urge  you  to  get  your  friends  to  vote.  Thanks  again.&quot;  Slim:  &quot;I  know  there  are  thousands  of  you  who  feel  as  I  do  that  nothing  is  more  sacred  than  the  bonds  between  man  and  wife.  Now  is  your  chance  to  speak  up  and  say  so.  If  you  will  only  take  this  opportunity  in  the  remaining  week,  I  know  we  will  come  out  on  top.&quot;  Jan.  24:  A  difficult  week  is  over.  I  have  purchased  four  boxes  for  Carl  (including  the  one  previous)  and  three  for  Slim.  IfindI  am  leaning  more  toward  Slim  the  longer  I  think  about  it.  I  guess  Billie  Ann  is,  too.  &quot;You  can't  make  a  decision  in  two  weeks  whether  or  not  to  walk  out  on  fifteen  years  of  marriage,&quot;  she  says.  The  contest  is  ex-  tended.  Jan.  25:  Two  women  came  to  the  door  selling  biscuits  for  Slim.  I  bought  four.  Later  I  went  to  the  corner  and  bought  two  more.  I  agree  with  Slim:  &quot;It's  good  to  take  more  time  making  up  our  mind.  Too  often  we  will  act  when  passion's  hot  to  do  what  time  will  tell  us  we  should  not.&quot;  Fes.  1:  It's  Slim  for  good:  10,451  to  7,285.  Slim  knew  she'd  come  back  and  holds  no  grudges.  Billie  Ann  is  giving  up  her  career  for  him.  Slim  is  quitting  the  music  business,  too;  he'll  go  into  life  insurance  for  Fidelity  Trust,  But  he  has  talked  the  company  into  sponsoring  Carl  Harper  on  his  own  show.  So  now  it's  &quot;Courteous  Carl  Harper  with  the  Pierce  Sisters  and  the  Riders  of  the  Sky  for  Fidelity  Trust  Insur-  ance.&quot;  The  Pierce  Sisters,  whose  big  hit  was  &quot;A  Big  Brass  Bed,  A  Rocker,  And  A  Range,&quot;  are  a  very  fine  vocal  ensemble.  The  instrumental  number  has  been  dropped,  allowing  the  Sis-  ters  a  spot  for  their  talent.  Then,  too,  each  of  them  gets  her  chance  to  do  a  duet  with  Carl.  Though  it  seems  that  the  duet  assignment  goes  more  and  more  often  to  the  youngest  girl,  Sharon.  She  is  only  sixteen,  but  Carl  seems  to  feel  he  can  wait. "