"24  THE  WIND~CHILL  FACTOR  OR,  A  PROBLEM  OF  MIND  AND  MATTER  HERE  was  some  doubt  in  the  woman's  mind  about  whether  it  would  be  wise  to  try  to  make  notes  on  her  experience  at  once  or  let  the  long  blizzard  go  through  a  fifth  noisy  night.  Perhaps  putting  onto  pa-  per  what  had  happened  to  her  could  make  things  worse,  invite  another  such  experience,  and  she  was  not  sure  how  well  she  would  handle  it  or,  more  truthfully,  if  she  could  survive.  Her  name  was  Mrs.  Thayer,  and  she  was  living  alone  in  a  friend's  cot-  tage,  ideally  installed  for  a  solitary  good  few  months  on  wild  dunes  toward  the  tip  of  Long  Island.  The  house  faced  the  ocean,  and  except  forthe  earth's  rounding  she  could  have  looked  east  to  [REDACTED]  and  south  to  43756261.  In  the  rooms  heated  by  electricity,  things  were  cozy  and  fine  until  an  uncom-  monly  sustained  blizzard  moved  onto  that  part  of  the  planet  and  onto  that  tiny  spit  of  sand,  like  a  bull  covering  and  possessing  the  cow,  the  warm  shelter.  On  the  fourth  night  'of  the  storm,  Mrs.  Thayer  was  used  to  adjusting  the  thermostats  in  each  of  the  five  heated  rooms,  turning  the  one  in  the  bathroom  up  when  she  could  no  longer  put  off  a  shower  and  the  one  in  her  bedroom  down  once  the  electric  pad  from  30.15  to  29.60-whatever  that  might  mean.  She  also  accustomed  herself  to  listen  through  the  static  on  the  kitchen  radio  to  mysteriously  progressing  reports  about  ice  conditions  on  New  York  and  [REDACTED]  streets,  about  the  amount  of  garbage  that  lay  on  their  sidewalks.  She  herself  had  no  such  problems,  for  the  car  in  her  friend's  garage  would  not  start,  and  she  made  so  little  rub-  bish  that  it  was  all  right  to  put  it  neat-  ly  in  an  unheated  corridor  until  the  wind  stopped.  Another  problem  in  the  cities  was  animals,  the  radio  reported.  Mrs.  Thayer  was,  forthe  first  time  in  her  many  lives,  without  a  four-legged  friend,  a  fact  that  may  have  added  to  the  severity  of  her  experience  on  the  fourth  night.  The  wind,  which  during  the  first  two  days  had  shifted  capriciously  this  way  and  that,  settled  into  a  northwest  blow,  fiercely  insistent.  It  bent  the  grasses  almost  flat  on  the  dunes,  and  when  occasional  dry  snow  piled  up  in  corners  it  soon  soiled  the  sculptured  drifts  with  yellowish  sand  from  the  im-  placable  surf.  Waves  changed  from  long  piling  rollers  to  mighty  beasts  =  \xc2\xae  1     |     JANUARY  6,  19  7  3  wearing  spume  four  times  their  height.  Mrs.  Thayer  found  after  the  third  night  that  as  she  slipped  into  good  sleep  it  would  seem  for  a  few  minutes  as  if  she  were  being  rocked,  moved,  gently  tipped  by  what  was  happening  outside  the  tight  little  shelter.  She  knew  that  she  did  not  actually  feel  this,  but  she  accepted  it  as  a  partof  being  so  in-  timately  close  to  the  majesty  she  lay  be-  side.  The  air  grew  steadily  colder,  and  alone  there  in  the  dunes  (the  natives  knew  better  than  to  build  anywhere  but  inland  in  such  brutal  country)  Mrs.  Thayer  closed  off  rooms  shedid  not  need  and  limited  herself  to  the  kitchen,  the  bedroom,  the  toilet.  Ev-  erything  stayed  cozy  for  her,  with  no  apprehensions:  if  the  electricity  went  off,  she  would  wait  for  people  who  knew  she  was  there  to  get  to  her  somehow,  before  the  place  grew  too  cold.  Almost  nonchalantly  she  tried  not  to  think  about  such  things,  even  when  the  telephone  failed.  It  would  ring  clearly,  but  when  she  answered  there  would  be  only  a  wild  squawk  on  the  line.  She  suspected  that  her  own  voice  might  be  heard,  and  would  say  in  a  high,  firm  way,  &quot;This  is  Mrs.  Thayer.  Everything  is  all  right.  I  am  all  right.  Thank  you.&quot;  It  was  childish  to  feel  rather  pleased  and  excited  about  the  game,  but  she  did.  HE  night  of  the     had  warmed  her  guts.  The  house  had  a  kind  of  private  weather  sta-  tion  on  one  wall,  and  the  barometer  and  ther-  mometer  worked  among  all  the  other  gadgets  that  did  not:  meters  for  wind  velocity  and  wind  direc-  tion,  a  tide  clock,  some-  thing  called  a  durotherm  hygrometer.  The  ship's  bells  that  were  part  of  it  sounded  later  and  later,  and  finally  went  silent.  Now  and  then  a  deli-  cate  needle  spun  mean-  inglessly  in  one  of  the  brass  puddings  with  their  crystal  crusts  as  the  bliz-  zard  yowled  above  and  around.  Mrs.  Thayer  found  that  she  looked  at  them  fairly  often,  as  if  to  keep  track  of  what  might  really  be  happen-  ing,  and  noticed  bland-  ly  when  the  barometer  dropped  in  a  few  hours     fourth  day,  she  ate  a  nice  supper  at  the  table  in  the  warm  kitchen,  adjust-  ed  thermostats,  and  tidied  herself,  with  parts  of  at  least  six  books  to  read  first.  In  bed,  she  turned  on  the  electric  warmer  and  suc-  cumbed  late  but  easily  to  sleep,  at  one  o'clock  in  the  morning.  She  felt  well  fed,  warm,  and  serene.  A  little  after  four,  an  extraordinary  thing  hap-  pened  to  her.  From  deep  and  comfortable  dream-  ings  she  was  wrenched  in-  to  the  conscious  world,  as  cruelly  as  if  she  had  been  grabbed  by  the  long  hairs  of  her  head.  Her  heart  had  changed  its  slow,  quiet  beat  and  bumped  in  her  rib  cage  like  a  rabbit's.  Her  breath  was  caught  in  a  kind  of  net  in  her  throat,  not  going  in  and  down  fast  enough.  She  touched  her  body  and     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  it  was  hot,  but  her  palms  felt  clammy  and  stuck  to  her.  Within  a  few  seconds  she  knew  that  she  was  in  a  state-perhaps  danger-  ous-of  pure  panic.  It  had  nothing  to  do  with  physi-  cal  fear,  as  far  as  she  could  tell.  She  was  not  afraid  of  being  alone,  or  of  being  on  the  dunes  in  a  storm,  She  ah  .  -  was  not  afraid  of  bodily  &quot;wll  attack,  rape,  all  that.  She  was  simply  in  panic,  or  what  Frenchmen  home  from  the  [REDACTED]  used  to  call  ie  cafard  aff  ol\xc3\xa9.  This  is  amazing,  she  said.  This  is  indescribable.  It  is  here.  I  shall  survive  it  or  else  run  out  howl-  ing  across  the  dunes  and  dic  soon  in  the  waves  and  the  wind.  Such  a  choice  seemed  very  close  and  sweet,  for  her  feeling  was  almost  in-  tolerably  wishful  of  escape  from  the  noise.  It  was  above  and  against  and  around  her,  and  she  felt  that  it  was  invading  her  spirit.  This  is  dangerous  indeed,  she  said,  and  I  must  try  not  to  run  outside.  That  is  a  suicide  wish,  and  weak.  I  must  try  to  breathe  more  slowly,  and  perhaps  swallow  some-  thing  to  get  back  my  more  familiar  rhythms.  She  was  speaking  slowly  to  her  whole  self,  with  silent  but  precise  enunciation.  She  waited  for  some  minutes  to  see  if  she  could  manage  the  breathing  in  bed,  but  her  heart  and  lungs  were  almost  out  of  control  when  she  got  unsteadily  to  her  feet,  tied  her  night  robe  around  her,  and  went  into  the  little  toilet.  There  it  took  a  minute  to  get  her  hand  to  turn  on  the  light,  for  she  was  racked  with  a  kind  of  chill  that  made  her  lower  back  and  thighs  ache  as  if  she  were  in  labor,  and  her  jaws  click  together  like  bare  bones.  She  remem-  bered  that  in  her  friend's  mirror  cab-  inet  was  a  bottle  of  aspirin,  and  with  real  difficulty,  almost  as  if  she  were  spastic,  she  managed  to  shake  two  into  her  hand,  fill  a  mug  with  water,  and  swallow  the  pills.  If  you  cannot  swal-  low,  she  said  flatly,  you  are  afraid  of  your  enemy.  She  felt  sick,  and  won  this  tiny  battle  of  holding  down  the  medi-  cineat  great  moral  cost,  for  by  now  in  the  astounding  onslaught  she  was  as  de-  termined  as  an  apparently  insensate  an-  imal  not  to  submit  to  the  roaring  all  around  her.  She  dared  not  look  at  herself  for  a  time  but  walked  in  a  staggering  way   about  the  bedroom  and  kitchen,  recall-  ing  methods  she  had  studied,  and  even  practiced,  for  se  lf-preserva  ti  on.  There  was  one,  taught  to  h  er  during  a  period  of  deep  stress  ,  in  which  one  takes  t  hree  slow  sips  of  almost  any  liquid,  then  waits  a  set  period-from  five  to  fif  teen  minu  t  es-a  nd  t  akes  three  more,  and  so  on.  She  devoted  her  whole  stren  g  th  to  t  his  pro  ject,.  She  carefully  heated  some  milk,  and  when  she  could  not  open  the  bott  l  e  of  angostura,  which  might  have  taken  the  curse  off  the  p  o-  tion's  insipidity,  she  poured  in  two  big  spoonfuls  of  sugar.  It  was  a  revolting  brew,  b  ut  sh  e  drank  a  bout  half  a  mug-  ful  of  it  over  the  next  period  of  care-  fully  repulsed  frenzy.  The  wind  had  become  different.  Its  steady  pressure  of  sound  had  cha  nged  t  o  a  s  pasmodic  vi  olence.  Snow  was  stinging  against  the  northern  and  west-  ern  storm  wi  ndows,  and  Mrs.  Thayer  already  knew  that  t  he  doors  on  those  sides  of  the  cottage  wer  e  frozen  shut  .  It  did  not  matte  r.  A  door  to  the  o  ut-  side  p  lace  where  pe  ople  changed  bath-  ing  suits  in  the  summe  r  began  to  bang  hard,  in  irregular  patterns.  I  t  is  un-  hinged,  she  sai  d  with  a  sly  grin.  That  did  not  matter,  either.  Nothing  mat-  tered  exc  ept  t  o  ke  ep  herself  inside  her  o  wn  skin,  and  with  real  sweat  she  di  d.  She  pulled  every  trick  o  ut  of  the  bagful  she  had  collected  during  her  long  life  with  neurotics.  She  brushed  her  hair  firmly,  and  all  the  while  her  heart  kept  kicking  against  her  ribs  and  she  felt  so  sick  that  she  could  scarcely  lift  her  arm.  She  tried  to  say  some  nursery  rhymes  and  the  Twenty-third  Psalm,  but  with  no  other  result  than  an  impatient  titter,  She  sipped  the  dreadful  sweet  milk.  She  prayed  to  those  two  pills  she  had  swallowed.  If  I  permit  myself  to  think  in  my  present  terms,  I  am  done  for.It  is  a  question  of  moral  energy,  she  said  in  rounded  words  and  clearly  punctuated  sentences,  in  a  silent  voice  that  rang  in  her  head  like  Teacher's,  like  Father  Joseph's,  like  Dr.  Rab's.  Subconscious-  lyI  am  admitting  that  the  storm  is  great  and  I  am  small,  and  for  a  time  or  possibly  forever  I  have  lost  the  bal-  ance  that  human  beings  must  maintain  between  their  own  inner  force  and  that  of  Nature.  I  was  unaware  of  what  the  wind  and  the  ocean  were  doing  to  me.  I  havebeen  respectful  and  awed,  but  naive.  Now  I  am  being  told.  Told  off.  Yes,  she  said,  I  am  admitting  it.  But  do  I  have  to  bow  any  deeper,  cry  &quot;uncle,&quot;  lose  everything?  She  went  on  likethis  as  she  walked  feebly  about  the  rooms.  Heavy  curtains  moved  in  the  fierce  air,  and  she  added  long  woollen  socks  and  a  leather  coat  to  her  coverings,  then  as  partof  her  dogged  rescue  work  she  focussed  on  a  mirror  enough  to  arrange  her  hair  nicely  and  put  on  firm  eyebrows  and  a  mouth  that  looked  poutish  instead  of  hard,  as  she  had  intended.  This  is  sim-  ply  going  on  too  long,  she  said  like  a  woman  on  the  delivery  table,  and  added  more  lipstick.  For  a  time,  as  the  aspirin  and  the  warm  milk  seemed  to  slow  down  her  limitless  dread  (Dread  of  what?  Not  that  the  roof  would  fly  off,  that  she  was  alone,  that  she  might  die  ..  .),  she  " b"26  made  herself  talk  reasonably  to  what  was  puling  and  trembling  and  flicker-  ing  in  her  spirit.  She  was  a  doctor-or,  rather,  an  unwitting  bystander  caught  in  some  kind  of  disaster,  forced  to  be  cool  and  wise  with  one  of  the  victims,  perhaps  a  child  bleeding  toward  death  or  an  old  man  pinned  under  a  truck  wheel.  She  talked  quietly  to  this  help-  less,  shocked  soul  fluttering  in  its  poor  body.  She  was  strong  and  calm.  All  the  while,  she  knew  cynically  that  she  was  nonexistent  except  in  the  need  thrust  upon  her,  and  that  the  victim  would  either  die  or  recover  and  forget  her  dramatic  saintliness  before  the  ambulance  had  come.  &quot;Listen  to  your  breath-  ing,&quot;  she  said  coolly.  &quot;'You  are  not  badly  hurt.  Soon  you  willfeel  all  right.  Sip  this.  It  will  make  the  pain  go  away.  Lift  yourhead  now,  and  breathe  slowly.  You  are  not  really  in  trou-  ble.&quot;  And  so  on.  Whenever  the  other  part  of  Mrs.  Thay-  er,  the  threatened  part,  let  her  mind  slip  back  to  the  hor-  ror  of  an  imminent  breaking  with  all  reason-and  then,  so  then,  out  the  door  it  would  be  final-the  kindly  stranger  seemed  to  sense  it  in  the  eye-  balls  and  the  pulse  as  she  bent  over  the  body  and  spoke  more  firmly  :  &quot;Now  hold  the  cup.  You  can.  I  know  you  can.  You  will  be  all  right.&quot;  This  became  monotonous,  and  in  fact  it  was  embarrassing  to  have  the  two  things  floating  inside  her  as  she  tried  deliberately  to  go  with  the  sounds  of  the  gale  instead  of  letting  her  con-  sciousness  accept  them  and  undermine  her.  At  last  she  said  rudely  to  the  creature  who  had  been  trying  to  give  her  some  help,  &quot;Go  away.  I  will  be  all  right.&quot;  And  the  kindly-stranger  part  of  her  shrugged  and  withdrew,  knowing  there  was  nothing  more  to  do,  knowing  she  would  not  have  been  dismissed  if  Mrs.  Thayer  depended  on  her  any  further.  The  next  step  was  to  try  to  read.  But  she  found  it  hard  to  concentrate  on  the  print,  and  when  shedid  it  was  on  sen-  tences  picked  hit  or  miss  from  this  page  or  that.  There  was  one  from  an  anony-  mous  book  called   &quot;Streetwalker&quot;:  &quot;...to  admit  fear  and  weakness  to  any  living  soul  .  ..  would  be  to  reveal  my  unfitness  for  the  life  I  have  chosen,  and,  since  no  other  is  now  possible  for  me,  to  reach  the  limits  of  despair-and  God  knows  what  would  happen  then.&quot;  I  am  beingplayed  with,  Mrs.  Thay-  er  said  angrily,  and  with  care  put  the  book  back  in  its  shelf  place  and  then     was  reading  in  a  controlled  way  while  her  heart  thugged  along  and  she  felt  wambly  all  over  &quot;This  is  the  day  for  each  ofus  to  assess  our  own  strength,  in  utter  silence  to  plumb  the  depth  of  our  own  spirit.&quot;  What  in  God's  name  was  she  looking  at?  She  saw  coldly  the  title  &quot;Second  Thoughts,&quot;  by  old  man  Mauriac,  and  all  her  admiration  of  a  lot  of  things  in  him  turned  into  fuming  jelly,  and  she  tossed  the  book  on  the  floor  and  started  to  walk  about  the  lit-  tle  house  again.  Mrs.  Thayer's  secret  balance,  the  stuff  like  the  fluid  of  the  inner  ear,  was  centered  now  a  little  be-  low  her  diaphragm,  and  she  walked  with  special  care,  in  order  to  keep  the  whole  place  from  crushing  like  an  egg  as  the  giant  thrashed.  Her  father  had  talked  often  about  a  couple  of  years  he'd  spent  asa  reporter  in  North  Dakota.  He  said  that  farm  women  went  stark  mad  there  because  in  their  lonely  cabins,  when  they  looked  out  the  window,  the  snow  would  always  be  blowing  horizontally.  Always.  It  sent  them  mad.  For  them,  it  was  not  the  wind.  The  sideways  snow  did  it.  Mrs.  Thayer  knew.  The  sound  of  the  wind,  for  her,  had  been  going  sideways  exactly  on  a  line  with  the  far  horizon  of  the  Atlantic  fordays,  nights-too  long.  It  was  in  her  bowels,  and  suddenly  they  were  loosened,  and  later,  again  to  her  surprise,  she  threw  up.  She  told  herself  dizzily  thatthe  rhythm  of  the  wind  had  bound  her  around,  and  that  now  she  was  defying  it,  but  it  kept  on  howling.  HE  pills  worked,  helped  by  the  warm  drink.  The  human  parts  of  her  body  helped.  The  mind  did  not  fail  her,  and  she  knew  all  the  time-or,  at  least,  brought  herself  by  degrees  to  be-  lieve  so-that  she  would  never  have  run  out  like  a  beast,  to  die  quickly  on  the  dunes.  Once,  she  stopped  roaming  and  lay  down,  feeling  purged  and  calmer,  but  the  minute  she  was  flat  on  the  bed  she  heard  the  wind  pressing  against  the  wall  beyond  her  head,  and  it  was  as  if  she  were  locked  in  a  cell  and  in  the  next  one  a  giant  lay  in  his  last  agony,  breath-  ing  with  a  terrible  rage  and  roar.  She  got  up  and  brushed  at  her  hair  again,  and  then  walked  with  a  decreasing  stagger  about  the  little  rooms.  In  another  two  hours  everything  was  all  right  inwardly  with  her,  except  that  she  was  languid,  as  if  she  had  lain  two  weeks  in  a  fever.  The  panic  that  had  seized  her  bones  and  spirit  faded  fast,  once  routed.  She  was  left  wan  and  be-  mused.  Never  had  she  been  afraid-  that  is,  of  tangibles  like  cold  and  sand  and  wind.  She  was  not  afraid,  as  far  as  she  knew,  of  dying  either  fast  or  slowly.  It  was,  she  decided  precisely,  a  question  of  sound,  If  the  storm  had  not  lasted  so  long,  with  its  noise  so  much  into  her,  into  her  brain  and  muscles  .  .  .  If  this  had  been  a  kind  of  mating,  it  was  without  joy.  Gradually,  she  was  breathing  with  deep  but  not  worried  rhythm  as  she  lay  under  a  cover  on  her  bed.  The  wind  still  thrust  at  her,  but  she  sensed  that  the  giant  was  in  that  state  of  merciful  lull  that  rewards  old  scoundrels  in  their  final  throes-he  was  not  choking  and  hitting  out  at  her.  She  got  up  carefully  and  did  several  small  things,  like  polish-  ing  her  fingernails,  and  then  she  poached  an  egg  in  some  beef  broth  and  ate  it.  She  felt  as  hollow  as  an  old  shell,  and  surprisingly  trembly.  She  slept  for  two  hours,  out  like  a  drunk.  The  whole  peculiar  experience  was  still  in  her  mind  when  she  wakened.  Why  had  it  happened?  Was  it  a  ques-  tion  of  decibels,  of  atmospheric  pres-  sure?  Had  her  ears  simply  been  too  long  assaulted  by  thepullulations  of  the  violently  moving  air  about  her?  Where  was  she,  then?  All  of  this  puzzled  her,  and  she  found  herself  hoping  like  a  child  that  the  air  would  be  calmer,  and  soon.  She  permitted  herself  the  weakness  of  one  gentle  tap  on  the  barometer  and  felt  no  real  dismay  when  its  thin,  flut-  teringindicator  went  down  a  little  more.  If  there  was  any  message  in  it,  perhaps  it  said  that  since  Mrs.  Thayer  had  lived  through  the  past  hours  she  would  never  know  them  again.  It  is  probable,  she  said,  that  if  I  must,  I  shall  bow,  succumb,  admit  greater  strength.  There  was  no  point  in  thinking  much  about  this  in  her  weak,  lacka-  daisical  state,  so  she  wrote  a  few  notes  to  herself,  not  caring  if  they  might  bring  on  more  wind  or  not,  and  went  to  bed.  And  during  the  late  afternoon,  while  she  dozed  with  a  deep,  soft  de-  tachment,  the  sound  abated  and  then  died,  and  she  was  lost  in  the  sweet  dream  life  of  a  delivered  woman."