 A  SCENT  OF  ROSES  age  of  ten,  became  his  mother's  only  comfort.  At  first,  he  rather  liked  it:  he  wore  a  black  armband  and  slept  in  her  bed.  Before  the  third  anniversary  of  his  father's  soldierly  death,  the  moderate  liking  had  waned  toa  dulled  acceptance  of  being  an  adjunct  to  her  daily  life.  Her  life  was  extremely  daily;  she  was  as  repetitive  as  the  calendar.  Waking  on  a  Monday,  as  surely  as  he  foresaw  that  Sunday's  joint  would  be  served  cold  with  a  salad,  on  Tuesday  be  a  hash  ora  Lancashire  hotpot,  he  knew  that  on  May  12th,  his  Aunt  Maud's  birthday,  he  would  hear  how  shock-  ingly  Maud's  hair  kept  falling  out;  on  July  19th,  Reggie's  wedding  day,  that  Mrs.  Reggiehad  a  touch  of  the  tar-  brush.  Quarter  days,  bringing  a  state-  ment  from  the  bank,  were  accompanied  by  having  every  reason  to  be  suspicious  of  the  bank  manager;  the  narrative  of  the  final  exposure  of  Basil's  machina-  tions  with  old  Fladgate  was  told  at  Halloween.  The  year  was  embossed  with  regular  surprises,  at  which  he  had  to  be  surprised,  and  regular  excur-  sions:  Lake  Ullswater  (honeymoon),  Isle  of  Man  (bluebells),  Morecambe  Bay  (shrimps),  and  Bishops  Totterby,  IN  1917  Howard  Wilkinson,  at  the  where  Mrs.  Wilkinson  spent  her  hap-  py,  simple  girlhood.  For  these,  and  for  all  other  mercies,  he  had  to  be  duly  thankful.  Mrs.  Wilkinson  was  also  thankful-  thankful  for  her  Howard's  devotion,  steadiness,  pleasure  in  the  simple  things  of  life,  sunny  disposition,  clean  mind,  and  the  entire  confidence  between  them.  These  were  public  thanksgiv-  ings-at  home  she  was  captious  and  demanding.  They  made  him  a  laugh-  ingstock  among  his  schoolfellows,  who  addressed  him  as  Bed  Socks  and  asked  if  his  bowels  had  worked  yet;  for  the  public  thanksgivings  were  qualified  by  regrets  that  Howard  had  inherited  his  father's  cold  feet  and  sluggish  liver.  Shakespeareanly  speaking,  Howard's  liver  was  cold,  too.  He  took  his  edu-  cation  in  sexuality,  theoretical  and  ap-  plied,  as  listlessly  as  though  it  were  in  English  history.  Mrs.  Wilkinson,  do-  ing  her  part  later,  was  rather  more  suc-  cessful.  She  chose  an  excursion  to  Lake  Ullswater  (honeymoon)  to  explain  how  simply  and  beautifully  he  was  be-  gun  there,  stressing  that  he  must  always  respect  women,  because,  though  mar-  riage  is  a  beautiful  relationship,  the  woman's  part  in  itis  painful  and  un-  congenial,  and  only  put  up  with  for  the      sake  of  the  little  life  to  come.  This  quite  new  idea  animated  Howard.  One  day,  he  would  assert  himself,  and  get  a  bit  of  his  own  back.  On  second  thoughts,  he  returned  to  his  intention  of  being  a  monk.  As  a  monk,  he  would  be  quit  of  respon-  sibility,  there  would  be  no  women  to  please  or  pain,  no  little  lives  to  worry  him,  he  would  call  hiscellhis  own,  pray  and  eat  at  regular  hours,  fast  in  Lent,  wear  sandals,  and  be  respected  by  everyone.  When  the  moment  was  ripe,  he  would  break  it  to  his  mother.  But  not  till  he  was  twenty-one.  Mean-  while,  hetook  a  course  in  metallurgy,  and  got  a  post  with  Joskins,  a  local  firm.  At  twenty-four,  he  was  still  living  at  home,  where  Mrs.  Wilkinson,  who  was  beginning  to  feel  her  age,  spent  many  interesting  hours  wondering  whom  she  would  leave  him  to.  Hearing  that  on  the  whole  he  would  be  happiest  with  Myra  Leadbetter,  Howard  felt  he  must  take  a  hand  in  his  own  disposal,  and  selected  a  clerk  in  the  accountancy  de-  partment.  She  had  no  immediate  rela-  tions,  parted  her  hair  in  the  middle,  and  was  old  enough  not  to  be  in  any  ro-  mantic  hurry.  On  a  wet  Sunday,  she  jilted  him.  To  regain  his  self-esteem  he  visited  a  brothel,  where  he  got  on  bet-  ter  than  he  expected.  On  a  later  visit  he  overstayed  any  credibility  of  his  pre-  text  of  working  overtime.  His  mother  switched  her  gaze  from  the  clock-  face.  &quot;Howard!&quot;  (When  angry,  she  pronounced  it  &quot;How-word,&quot;  like  clods  falling  on  a  coffin.)  &quot;You  smell  of  cheap  scent.&quot;  They  glared  at  each  oth-  er  like  two  confronting  animals,  No  more  was  said.  From  that  justifying  moment  he  began  to  feel  faintly  affec-  tionate  toward  her,  took  her  to  the  cinema  from  time  to  time,  tolerated  her  fuss,  her  praises,  her  fits  of  ill  tem-  per  and  her  hats,  and  by  dint  of  feeling  superior  to  her  came  to  think  of  her  as  a  credit  to  him.  She  died,  leaving  him  considerably  more  thanhe  expected.  She  also  left  him  an  interest  in  life-his  grandfather's  stamp  collection.  It  had  been  totally  forgotten,  and  was  rather  a  good  one.  Joskins  was  now  part  of  a  combine.  In  1938  he  got  himself  transferred  to  headquarters  and  moved  to  [REDACTED].  T  wo  years  later,  he  wished  he  had  not  done  so.  The  blitz  was  not  his  mother;  he  could  not  outglare  it.  He  was  continually  afraid.  But  as  he  was  totally  lacking  in  adrenalin,  heacquired  the  reputation  of  being  imperturbable.  As  he  had  flat  feet  and  was  short-  sighted,  he  was  able  to  go  on  being  in-  dispensable.  He  was  twice  evicted  from  " b"45     his  lodgings  by  blast  from  a  nearby  hit,  and  resorted  miserably  to  the  cellarage  beneath  his  place  of  work.  Rats  re-  sorted  there,  too.  When  there  was  a  lull,  he  came  back  to  the  surface  and  found  a  bed-sitting-room  in  Pimlico.  After  the  lull  came  the  flying  bombs.  There  was  no  knowing  where  they  would  drop,  and  conversation  at  the  eating  house  where  he  had  his  supper  that  evening  in  August  was  dominated  by  two  statisticians,  one  arguing  that  this  diminished  the  risk  of  being  killed,  the  other  that  it  increased  it.  He  was  walking  back  through  the  natural  dark  of  blacked-out  [REDACTED]  when  he  heard  the  noise,  the  summer-cockchafer  ap-  proach  ofa  V-1,  persisting  above  the  clatter  ofpeople  running  to  get  into  the  street  shelter.  It  dropped  on  the  public  house  at  the  corner.  The  air  was  full  of  dust,  bricks,  earth,  splintered  wood,  broken  glass;  he  was  thumped  and  jostled;  a  woman  clung  to  him  and  screamed  in  his  face.  Her  open,  screaming  mouth  was  bare  as  a  baby's.  Slates,  chimney  pots,  bits  of  masonry  dislodged  by  the  blast  were  falling  all  round.  A  swaying  housefront  suddenly  fell  out,  like  atoy.  There  was  a  strong  smell  of  gas.  Wardens  and  police  made  their  way  through  the  crowd,  saying,  &quot;Move  away,  please.  Room  for  the  ambulance.&quot;  He  wandered  back  to  his  lodging  house.  The  door  had  been  blown  in;  a  bath  blocked  the  hallway.  A  faintlight  powdered  down  from  a  gash  in  the  roof.  Enough  of  the  bottom  flight  of  stairs  remained  for  him  to  mount  part-  way  up  it.  From  there  he  got  a  sight  of  \xc2\xa9\xc2\xae  his  room.  It  was  recognizably  his,  and  the  legs  of  a  piano-the  second-floor  piano  he  had  execrated-projected  into  it.  Somewhere  there  was  a  slow  drip-  ping  of  water.  He  went  back  and  sat  down  on  the  doorstep.  The  dark  throng  of  people  which  had  seemed  part  of  the  explosion  thinned  away.  &quot;It  would  go  and  drop  on  a  public,&quot;  said  a  voice.  An-  other  voice  replied  that  there  had  been  a  delivery  that  same  morning.  By  this  date,  loss  of  liquor  was  more  significant  than  loss  of  life.  Other  voices  com-  plained  of  the  way  wardens  bossed  you  into  rest  centers  as  if  they  were  sweep-  ing  you  under  the  mat.  The  water  dripped  on.  An  ambulance  clanged  its  way  out  of  hearing.  He  fell  into  a  miserable  drowse.  His  headdropped  forward,  and  as  it  did  so  he  became  aware  of  a  pain  in  his  cheek.  He  put  his  hand  to  the  place;  his  fingers  stumbled  on  a  splinter  of  glass.  He  pulled  it  out  and  was  holding  his  handkerchief  to  the  gush  of  blood  which  followed  it  when  a  small  beam  of  light  wandered  over  him.  &quot;You're  bleeding.&quot;  A  helmet,  the  bulk  of  a  trousered  uniform,  a  woman's  voice  ...  one  of  those  air-raid  wardens  who  would  sweep  him  into  a  rest  center.  &quot;It's  nothing.  A  bit  of  glass,  and  I've  pulled  it  out.&quot;  &quot;Lucky  it  didn't  get  your  eye.&quot;  &quot;Many  killed?&quot;  &quot;Five  for  certain.  There  may  be  more  underneath.&quot;  Talking  made  the  blood  flow  fast-  er.  He  mopped.  The  saturated  hand-  kerchief  was  stiffening.  &quot;You  must  get  stitched  at  the  First  Aid  Post-second  turning  on  the  right.  That  handkerchiefs  no  good  now.  Take  this.&quot;  She  opened  her  coat,  dived  into  her  bosom.  It  was  as  if  she  had  opened  the  coat  on  a  different  world,  a  world  of  warmth  and  sleep  and  riches.  The  handkerchief  was  soft  as  a  rose  petal  and  smelled  of  roses.  &quot;I  can't  bleed  on  this;  it's  too  ex-  pensive.&quot;  &quot;Nonsense.&quot;  He  went  on  expostulating.  His  mother,  who  liked  things  dainty,  had  made  him  aware  of  best  handkerchiefs  sprinkled  with  lavender  water,  and  this  was  far  beyond  her  finest.  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  the  woman  said.  Her  voice  was  tolerant  and  fatigued,  as  if  she  had  been  humoring  fractious  chil-  dren  all  day.  &quot;If  you  feel  like  that,  you  can  return  it.  This  is  my  address.  Now  go  off  and  get  seen  to.&quot;  The  First  Aid  Post  smelled  of  blood  and  disinfectant.  But  when  he  got  away,  the  handkerchief  still  retained  its  smell  of  another  world.  He  scarcely  connected  it  with  the  woman.  When  it  came  back  from  the  cleaners  smelling  of  the  cleaners,  he  retrieved  the  card  from  his  pocket.  Miss  Millie  Roberts,  and  an  address  off  the  Fulham  Road.  As  he  passed  the  Cancer  Hospital  he  noticed  the  flower  seller  and  bought  six  carnations.  She  came  to  the  door  of  her  flat  wearing  a  dressing  gown.  If  it  had  not  been  for  the  smell  of  roses,  he  would  not  have  known  it  was  she.  &quot;How  kind  of  you-and  carnations,  too.&quot;  She  pressed  her  nose  into  the     " b"46  jaded  flowers.  There  was  the  noise  of  a  man's  shoes  being  kicked  off.  &quot;I'm  sorry  I'm  engaged  just  now.  Perhaps  you'll  look  in  tomorrow.  No,  not  tomorrow;  the  evening  after.  To-  morrow  I'm  on  duty.&quot;  Catch  me,  he  thought,  going  away  indignantly.  It  was  easy  to  see  what  she  was.  But  on  the  evening  of  the  after-  morrow  he  went  again.  The  woman  in  the  helmet  who  had  preceded  the  woman  in  a  dressing  gown  stood  in  the  way  of  his  intention.  The  helmet  hung  just  inside  the  door,  and  she  was  wearing  a  black  dress  and  a  cardigan;  and  though  she  was  evidently  expect-  ing  him,  it  was  rather  as  though  she  were  expecting  him  to  have  come  about  the  gas.  For  a  moment,  he  wished  he  bad  and  could  escape  on  it.  But  al-  ready  she  had  got  him  to  her  sitting  room,  had  offered  him  a  cigarette,  was  talking  about  the  weather  and  the  war.  Her  glance  rested  on  his  cheek.  He  wished  he  had  taken  off  the  strip  of  pink  plaster.  A  black  patch  would  have  looked  less  unheroic.  She  asked  how  the  cut  was  gettingon,  and  he  replied,  thankful  to  have  a  subject  for  conver-  sation,  that  it  was  mending  and  no  longer  festered-adding  that  he  was  always  a  bad  healer.  &quot;'This  should  help,&quot;  she  said;  and  while  he  was  expecting  her  to  produce  a  tube  of  ointment  she  leaned  forward  and  kissed  his  cheek.  URING  the  next  ten  years  he  loved  her  with  all  his  cold  heart.  She  never  changed  her  scent,  so  it  seemed  to  him  she  grew  no  older.  She  aroused  no  jealousy  in  him,  and  no  particular  desire.  She  contented  him.  He  was  one  of  her  Regulars-she  con-  centrated  on  Regulars.  He  visited  her  once  a  fortnight,  which  was  just  right.  He  kept  a  pair  of  slippers  there,  and  when  he  arrived  they  had  been  put  out  for  him.  He  brought  an  evening  paper.  No  doubt  there  were  other  pairs  of  slippers;  he  vaguely  pictured  a  sort  of  filing  cabinet.  At  times  he  vaguely  speculated  about  the  other  Regulars,  not  all  of  whom  might  be  so  peaceably  satisfied  as  he.  As  well  as  the  filing  cabinet,  was  there  a  cupboard  where  she  kept  whips,  chains,  outsize  wom-  en's  underclothes?  He  inquired  a  little,  but  did  not  press  his  inquiries.  &quot;Some  people  have  the  funniest  notions  what  it's  all  about,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  can  have  no  idea.&quot;  Her  eyes  under  the  un-  changing  symmetry  of  their  plucked  brows  were  candid  as  a  cat's,  and  he  remained  with  no  heightened  ideas.  Her  plump  white  skin  bruised  easily.  He  averted  his  recognition  from  the  in  winter  if  there  are  feet  bells  will  ring  snow  falls  in  the  bread  of  some  and  in  the  mouths  of  others  nobody  listens  to  apologies  when  prisoners  clasp  their  hands  a  door  locks  the  days  are  polished  with  ashes  the  cold  lie  in  white  tents  hoarding  sunrise  the  poor  we  have  with  us  always  the  old  vine  stakes  smell  of  the  sea  the  air  is  clear  as  though  we  should  live  forever  Prince  it  is  said  that  night  is  one  of  the  sieves  there  is  no  end  to  how  fine  we  shall  be  at  the  names  of  the  poor  the  eye  of  the  needle  echoes  the  air  is  clear  as  though  we  should  live  forever  bruises;  they  were  professional,  even  honorable,  scars,  fleeting  medals  ac-  quired  in  the  course  of  duty.  His  real  curiosity  directed  itself  as  his  mother's  would  have  done:  who  was  she,  where  didshe  come  from,  how  much  money  had  she  got,  didshe  pay  her  bills  week-  ly  or  let  them  run  on?  The  answers  to  his  mother's  more  imperious  ques-  tions  he  knew  already.  She  was  not   respectable,  her  teeth  were  her  own,  she  was  irreproachably  clean.  For  some  timehe  took  it  that  she  was  socially  acut  above  him:  her  manner,  her  clothes,  her  appurtenances  inplied  an  accustomed  superiority;  there  was  nothing  flashy  or  artistic.  It  was  partly  a  relief,  partly  a  disappoint-  ment  to  learn  that  her  father  had  been  a  postman.  Like  Howard,  she  was  born  and  bred  in  the  provinces,  though  on  the  opposite  side  of  England-Lincoln-  shire  against  his  Staffordshire.  Like  him,  she  was  early  fatherless;  but  she  was  one  of  five  sisters,  and  their  moth-  er  had  been  high-spirited  and  indul-  gent:  &quot;larky&quot;  was  the  word  she  used.  " b"The  house  was  noisy  with  girls  and  canar-  ies-gifts  from  Uncle  Bartle  in  Norfolk,  who  bred  them  as  a  hobby.  His  nieces  went  to  him  for  their  yearly  holi-  day,  boating  and  sailing  on  the  Broads,  where  he  kept  a  boatyard  for  summer  visitors,  A  happiness  such  as  he  had  never  felt  was  re-  flected  on  him  as  she  talked  of  the  boatyard  and  the  pocket  money  the  five  girls  made,  scampering  barefoot  on  errands  forthe  house-  boat  people,  swabbing  decks,  selling  carly-  morning  mushrooms,  T  wo  of  them  had  gone  the  same  way  as  her-  self-Ivy,  who  was  the  beauty  and  died  after  an  abortion,  and  Cindy,  the  runt,  now  married  to  a  rich  man  in  Cana-  da  and  opening  church  fetes.  It  was  so  real  to  her,  this  incompatible  past,  that  she  spoke  of  it  as  though  the  rough  pleasures,  the  ex-  ploits,  the  eight  half-crowns  tossed  into  her  dinghy  from  the  deck  of  the  tow-  ering  black-sailed  wherry  were  still  at  her  command.  She  told  stories  of  local  hauntings-the  mourning  coach  with  a  headless  driver,  the  hanged  Abbot  of  St.  Benet's,  Old  Shuck  the  enormous  goblin  dog-as  though  she  believed  them.  She  turned  to  the  rasping  sing-  song  of  the  dialect  as  easily  as  turning  over  in  bed,  used  local  idioms,  said  &quot;Bless  your  flesh,&quot;  called  him  &quot;Bor.&quot;  Bore  he  might  be;  but  it  had  shocked  him  that  she  should  choose  a  moment  of  endearment  to  tell  him  so.  For  the  rest,  she  told  him  nothing,  and  he  hadn't  much  to  tell  about  him-  self.  Lovemaking  over,  he  read  his  evening  paper  and  she  went  on  with  her  petit  point.  Occasionally  he  read  her  bits  from  the  Stock  Exchange  column  about  the  rise  or  fall  of  her  investments-she  was  shrewd  and  pru-  dent  in  placing  her  money-or  racing  tips,  for  she  liked  a  gamble.  Time  went  on,  methodical  as  the  petit  point.  She  contented  him.  It  was  what  he  wanted;  it  was  all  heasked  for;  above  all,  he  was  sure  of  it.  The  thought  of  giving  her  pleasure  never  occurred  to  him.  He  gave  her  chocolates  at  Christmas,  flowers  at  in-     tervals  (but  she  was  always  well  sup-  plied  with  flowers),  his  clothing  cou-  pons-she  had  asked  for  them.  Once,  a  sudden  ambition  entered  him.  She  lived  on  a  plateau  of  middle  age,  always  using  the  same  scent  and  never  seem-  ing  to  grow  older;  but  she  must  have  a  birthday  somewhere  about  in  the  year.  Birthdays  are  to  be  celebrated,  presents  must  be  a  surprise.  Allowing  an  artful  interval,  he  asked  the  date  of  her  birthday,  the  name  of  her  scent.  It  was  a  French  name,and  she  wrote  it  down  for  him.  The  date  lay  con-  veniently  near  the  day  of  his  next  visit.  His  chemist  sold  perfumes,  some  with  French  names,  but  none  with  this  name.  He  went  to  another,  and  anoth-  er.  It  gave  him  a  quickened  sense  of  manly  pride  to  be  taking  so  much  trou-  ble  to  please  Millie.  He  went  to  per-  fumery  departments  in  stores;  he  went  to  small  crystalline  shops  in  the  West  End.  Some  had  never  heard  of  it,  oth-  ers  did  not  stock  it.  Only  on  the  eve  of  his  visit  did  a  grey-haired  shopwoman  with  silver  fingernails  read  the  name  as  though  it  were  a  commonplace  toher,  unlock  a  glass  cupboard,  and  from  the  top  shelf  reach  down  an  oblong  navy  -  blue  package-one  of  several,  all  of  the  same  size  and  looking  as  unvolup-  tuous  as  wardresses.  But  the  name  on  the  label  was  right.  &quot;How  much?&quot;  he  asked,  thinking  he  might  ask  her  to  wrap  it  ornamentally,  with  bows.  &quot;Seven  guineas,&quot;  she  said,  as  though  he  were  uneducated  not  to  know  it.  Trembling  at  this  step  into  the  world  Millie's  bosom  had  opened  to  him  when  he  sat  bleeding  on  the  doorstep,  he  blinked  and  paid.  Afterward,  he  re-  flected  that  he  knew  more  about  scent  than  his  mother  did,  and  had  got  a  bit  of  his  own  back.  For  he  still  bore  his  mother  a  grudge,  and  for  anything  that  went  wrong  with  him  still  blamed  her:  shrimps  made  him  sick;  hand-knitted  socks  gave  him  nettle  rash.  The  passage  of  time  merely  enforced  her,  for  he  was  impaled  on  her  anniversaries.  On  the  twelfth  of  May  his  Aunt  Maud  shed  her  hair,  the  last  Sunday  in  Au-  gust  haled  him  to  Bishops  Totterby;  on  March  15th  poor  old  Pickwick,  the  faithful  terrier,  died  in  agonies.  As  he  had  inherited  her  retentive  mind,  he  went  on  accumulating  anniversaries  of  his  own.  He  knew  the  length  of  service  of  everybody  in  the  firm;  he  remem-  bered  wedding  days  whether  or  no  he  was  invited  to  them;  deaths  were  engraved  on  him  as  though  on  mar-  ble,  He  was  a  ledger  of  anniversaries.  He  asserted  himself  by  not  observing  " b" them.  The  bottle  of  scent  for  Millie  was  different.  He  was  positively  glad  she  had  been  born  on  April  17th  and  that  onAugust  28th  her  little  beam  of  light  had  caught  him  as  he  sat  bleed-  ing  on  the  doorstep  of  No.  47.  HE  tenth  anniversary  was  past.  He  had  been  aware  of  it  because  it  was  an  anniversary,  but  not  till  later  did  he  realize  that  a  tenth  anniversary,  an  anniversary  in  double  figures,  calls  for  a  special  acknowledgment:  that  he  ought  to  give  Millie  a  present;  that  he  would  like  to  do  so.  He  was  standing  outside  a  jeweller's  window,  looking  at  an  assortment  of  brooches  on  a  black  velvet  pad  (he  had  decided  thata  brooch  would  be  best,  though  his  first  impulse  had  been  a  ring),  when  a  girl  tweaked  his  sleeve.  &quot;Thinking  of  giv-  ing  me  a  present,  Romeo?&quot;  He  walked  away.  She  followed  him.  To  escape  her  importunities,  he  signalled  a  passing  taxi.  It  slowed,  he  hurried  toward  it,  slipped  off  the  pavement's  edge,  lost  his  balance.  ...  There  was  a  clamor  of  screaming  brakes,  bellowing  horns,  voices.  He  tried  to  get  up,  and  a  lacer-  ating  pain  felled  him.  He  was  still  hopping  on  one  leg  when  five  days  later  he  crutched  himself  to  her  door.  &quot;Why,  what's  been  happening  to  you?  And  didn't  you  get  my  telephone  message?  Sit  down  and  tell  me  all  about  it.  ...  Wait  a  minute,  'll  just  fetch  your  slippers.&quot;  As  he  had  not  brought  a  present,  he  did  not  go  into  the  whole  story.  He  told  how  the  taxi-driver  had  insisted  on  driving  him  to  the  hospital,  how  long  he  had  waited  before  anyone  came  to  attend  to  him,  how  he  had  been  wheeled  to  the  X-ray  department  and  again  kept  waiting  there,  how  easily  it  could  have  been  a  Pott's  com-  pound  fracture.  j  She  listened,  questioned,  sympa-  thized,  put  the  slipper  on  his  uninjured  foot  as  solicitously  as  though  it  had  been  the  injured  one.  &quot;About  all  I  can  do  for  you  today,  I  suppose,&quot;  she  said.  In  fact,  it  was  all  he  wanted:  her  warmth,  her  composure,  her  painless  familiarity,  her  scent.  He  leaned  back  and  sighed  with  pleasure.  &quot;I'm  glad  I  came.  Do  you  know,  I  nearly  didn't  come.  It's  the  first  time  I've  been  out.&quot;  &quot;So  that's  why  you  didn't  get  my  message.  The  girl  at  your  office  said  you  hadn't  come  in  yet  but  she'd  give  it  to  you  when  you  did.  She  might  have  had  the  sense  to  post  it  on.  But  she  didn't.&quot;  There  had  been  a  telephone  message.  His  slippers  had  not  been  put  out.  He  began  to  think.  &quot;What  was  the  message*  Are  you  expecting  someone  else?&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  bor!  All  that's  over  and  done  with.  I'm  retiring.&quot;  But  why  was  she  retiring?  She  was  as  good  as  ever,.  &quot;That's  why  I  telephoned.  To  ask  you  to  dine  with  me  instead.  I  thought  we'd  have  a  little  farewell  celebration.&quot;  Had  she  come  into  a  fortune?  &quot;Is  this  a  new  idea,  this  retiring?&quot;  &quot;New  idea?  We've  been  saving  up  for  it  for  years,  Fred  and  me.&quot;  &quot;Fred?&quot;  &quot;Fred  Larter.  He's  the  wine  waiter  at  the  East  Anglia  Hotel.  He  was  odd-job  boy  at  the  boatyard,  twiddled  outboard  engines,  patched  sails.  He  could  put  his  hand  to  anything.  Uncle  Bartle  paid  him  five  bob  a  week,  and  always  said  he'd  go  far-be  it  [REDACTED],  be  it  the  devil.  He  was  the  first  one  who  ever  kissed  me  proper,  was  Boy  Fred.  Chased  me  into  the  water  and  kissed  me  among  the  swans.  You'd  never  think  it  to  see  him  now,  so  responsible  and  stately.  Nor  me,  neither.&quot;  It  was  as  though  the  hoyden  virgin  stood  there,  drenched  with  joy  and  de-  fiant.  Her  professional  competence  was  gone.  She  suddenly  looked  much  older  and  unrecognizably  young.  &quot;I'm  sure  I  hope  you'll  be  happy,&quot;  he  said  at  last.  &quot;We'll  be  happy,  all  right!  We're  going  to  live  in  [REDACTED],  in  the  brandy  country.  Fred's  bought  the  house.  He  got  it  through  a  friend  in  the  trade.  It's  nightingales  everywhere,  he  says.  And  roses.&quot;  She  appeared  to  catch  sight  of  him  from  a  distance.  &quot;If  you  should  happen  to  want  an  introduction,  there's  a  friend  of  mine  who'd  be  just  what-&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO!\xe2\x80\x9d  It  terrified  him  to  hear  the  fury  in  his  voice. "