MARVIN  STANLEY  PIGEON  (Ax  ApourT  Fasue  ror  ApoLEscEnTs  or  ALL  AoEs)  T  was  morning,  and  the  new  sun  glowed  a  bright  Nedick's  orange  through  the  soot-filled  air  of  Bryv-  ant  Park.  A  ragged  old  woman,  her  blue-gray  eyes  a-sparkle  with  paranoia,  shuffled  intothe  park,  settled  on  a  bench  across  from  the  fountain,  and  opened  a  tattered  shopping  bag.  The  message  &quot;Breakfast  Flock&quot;  flashed  through  the  park  as  a  crowd  of  four  or  five  hundred  pigeons  came  fluttering  to  battle  for  crumbs  of  day-old  Fink's  pumpernickel  bread  that  the  crone  cast  upon  the  litter-strewn  sidewalk.  An-  other  busy  day  of  scrounging  food  from  crazy  people  had  begun  for  the  pigeons  of  Bryant  Park.  High  above  this  scene,  alone  on  a  window  ledge  outside  the  Manuscript  Room  of  the  Public  Library,  Marvin  Stanley  Pigeon  was  working  away  on  his  book.  With  a  feather  (plucked  painfully  from  his  own  tail)  gripped  in  his  beak,  he  wrote  slowly,  dipping  the  tip  from  time  to  time  in  grime-  blackened  rainwater.  He  wrote  on  scraps  of  paper  he  had  torn  from  the  open  briefcase  of  a  dozing  rabbinical  student  in  the  park.  Now  he  narrowed  his  beady  eyes  in  concentration,  held  his  breath,  and  forced  his  weary  body  to  form  still  another  soaring  phrase.  At  last,  his  beak  gone  numb  with  writer's  cramp,  he  dropped  the  feather.  &quot;Turn-  ing  out  this  stuff  isn't  as  easy  as  it  looks,&quot;  muttered  Marvin  Stanley  Pi-  geon.  Pigeons  are  not  known  for  their  writing  talent,  and  few  are  published  in  major  markets.  But  Marvin  Stanley  Pigeon  was  no  ordinary  pigeon.  For  him,  it  was  not  filling  his  face  with  left-  over  ends  of  cream-cheese-on-raisin-  whole-wheat-bread  sandwiches  from  Chock  Full  O'Nuts  that  mattered.  More  than  anything  else,  Marvin  Stan-  ley  Pigeon  loved  to  write.  His  writing,  he  had  found,  did  not  exactly  endear  him  to  all  the  other  pigeons.  &quot;Next  thing  you  know,  he'll  be  writing  letters  to  the  New  York  Review  of  Books,&quot;  some  of  them  groused.  Even  his  parents  didn't  un-  derstand.  &quot;Why,  Marvin,  why?&quot;  his  mother  crooned  as  she  watched  Mar-  vin  toiling  away  at  what  he  quiet,  ly  referred  to  as  &quot;my  ceuvre.&quot;  &quot;Why  can't  you  leave  novel-writing  to  types  with  a  natural  flair  for  it,  like  Bill  Sty-  ron  and  Joyce  Carol  Oates?  Also,  why  don't  you  eat  something-nzos/h  a  little?  Son,  believe  me,  you're  nothing  but  bones  and  feathers.&quot;  &quot;Mom,  I  don't  mind  being  bones  and  feathers,&quot;  replied  Marvin.  &quot;Be-  sides,  I  want  to  get  my  novel  done  in  time  for  Macmillan's  spring  list.&quot;  &quot;Look  at  it  this  way,  Marvin,&quot;  said  his  father  sternly.  &quot;Before  you  know  it,  winter  will  be  here,  and  the  pickings  for  us  Bryant  Park  pigeons  are  going  to  be  mighty  slim.  So  you  want  to  write  something,  go  write  a  letter  to  Gristede's  and  ask  if  they  can  send  over  some  free  samples.  I  mean,  you  can't  cat  a  novel.&quot;  &quot;But  that's  where  you're  dead  wrong,  Dad,&quot;  said  Marvin.  &quot;If  I  hit  with  my  novel,  maybe  get  Book-of-the-  Month,  a  six-figure  paperback  sale  to  Avon,  that  isn't  chicken  feed.  We'll  be  onEasy  Street,  able  to-&quot;  &quot;Aw,  shut  up  with  your  crazy  dreaming,  kid!&quot;  shouted  his  father  an-  grily.  &quot;Get  down  there  and  scrap  for  food  with  the  rest  of  us!&quot;  And  Mar-  vin  did  as  he  was  told.  For  the  next  few  days,  at  least,  he  tried  to  act  like  the  other  pigeons-flapping  and  fight-  ing  over  stale  bits  of  breakfast  rolls  and  53  Cracker  Jack.  But  it  was  no  use.  It's  all  so  pointless,  he  thought  one  eve-  ning,  deliberately  dropping  a  hard-won  tidbit  of  pizza  crust.  I  could  be  spend-  ing  this  time  working  on  my  novel!  Learning  to  write  very  good!  And  so  it  wasn't  long  before  Marvin  Stanley  Pigeon  was  off  by  himself  again,  on  his  library  window  ledge-hungiy,  happy,  writing.  S  he  worked,  Marvin  Stanley  Pi-  geon  recalled  the  day  when  he'd  first  been  inspired  to  take  up  writing.  On  a  glimmering  August  afternoon,  he  had  found  himself  looking  over  the  shoulder  of  a  teen-aged  Jesus  freak  who  was  reading  a  book  entitled  &quot;Jon-  athan  Livingston  Seagull.&quot;  The  book,  Marvin  knew  from  Bryant  Park  gos-  sip,  was  the  No.  1  fiction  best-seller  in  the  country,  and  had  just  been  sold  to  paperback  for  a  million  one  hundred  and  ten  thousand  dollars.  Marvin  kept  dozing  off  as  he  read  it,  which  was  strange,  because  the  book  was  only  ninety-three  pages  long  and  was  printed  in  large-face  type,  like  a  children's  book.  &quot;Now  I  know  why  this  is  called   " b"54  a  sleeper,&quot;  Marvin  muttered,  waking  up  with  a  start.  &quot;For  four  ninety-five  a  copy,  a  million  people  are  buying  this  thing?&quot;  And  it  was  atthat  moment,  his  heart  suddenly  beating  faster,  that  Marvin  Stanley  Pigeon  had  decided  to  become  a  writer!  One  evening,  when  Marvin  joined  the  flock  on  the  grass  after  slaving  all  day  over  his  manuscript,  he  found  that  the  senior  pigeons  had  voted  to  evict  him  from  the  park.  &quot;Birds  of  a  feather  flock  together,  but  in  your  case  we're  making  an  exception,&quot;  an-  nounced  Jason  Pigeon,  the  leader  of  the  park  flock.  &quot;In  other  words,  Mar-  vin  Stanley  Pigeon,  you  are  herewith  permanently  kicked  out,  banished  for-  ever  to  Duffy  Square.&quot;  &quot;Kicked  out!  For  what?&quot;  cried  Marvin,  feeling  as  if  he'd  been  hit  over  the  head  with  a  two-by-four.  &quot;For  very  bad  writing,&quot;  said  Leon-  ard  Pigeon.  &quot;We  got  a  peek  at  your  work-in-progress.  Frankly,  Marvin,  there  are  certain  literary  standards  that  itis  incumbent  upon  us  Bryant  Park  pigeons  to  keep  up.&quot;  &quot;Right.  With  our  proximity  to  the  New  York  Public  Library  and  all,  we  can't  have  one  of  our  crowd  turning  out  claptrap  like  that  soi-disant  novel  of  yours,&quot;  said  Christopher  Lehmann-  Pigeon.  &quot;Ha!  Suddenly  everyone  is  a  crit-  ic!&quot;  cried  Marvin,.  &quot;You're  nothing  but  a  bunch  of  jaded  New  York  Lit-  erary  Establishment  cynics!&quot;  With  tears  streaming  down  his  beak,  Marvin  rose  from  the  grass  and  flew  out  of  Bryant  Park.  Dazed  with  grief,  he  darted  straight  into  the  windshield  of  a  Sixth  Avenue  bus.  'M  a  dead  pigeon,  thought  Marvin  Stanley  Pigeon  as  he  waddled  down  the  birdseed-heaped  corridors  of  Pigeon  Heaven.  I  don't  believe  this,  he  re-  flected  further.  For  one  thing,  it's  all  far  too  reminiscent  of  that  book-the  part  where  Jonathan  What's-His-  Name  goes  on  to  Higher  Things.  I'll   bet  an  M.  &amp;  M.  I'm  about  to  get  a  second  go-round  at  life.  Marvin  Stanley  Pigeon  was  right  again!  Almost  before  he'd  had  time  to  think  about  the  Meaning  of  It  All,  he  had  been  reincarnated  and  was  winging  his  way  back  to  Bryant  Park.  None  other  than  the  Great  Pigcon  himself  had  given  him  instructions  to  return  and  spread  the  word  among  the  other  pigeons.  &quot;A  talent  like  yours,  it  shouldn't  go  to  waste  up  here,&quot;  the  Great  Pigeon  had  said.  &quot;I  mean,  Mar-  vin,  even  if  you  don't  get  published  yourself,  the  least  you  can  do  is  teach.&quot;  NCE  again,  dusk  fell  hurriedly  on  the  window  ledge  outside  the  Manuscript  Room.  Marvin  Stanley  Pigeon,  known  now  as  the  Son  of  the  Great  Pigeon,  stood  in  the  midst  of  his  flock  of  disciplee-a  band  of  dis-  gruntled  young  Bryant  Park  pigeons  who  had  signed  up  for  his  creative-  writing  class.  Marvin  checked  the  time  on  the  clock  atop  the  Newsweek  Build-  ing.It  was  growing  late.  He  cleared  his  craw  meaningfully  and  held  up  one  pink  foot.  &quot;Soon  I  must  leave  you,&quot;  he  said,  regarding  the  bright-eyed  squabs  that  surrounded  him.  &quot;Remember  always.  The  secret  of  turning  out  best-selling  fiction  is  to  combine  plain,  simplemind-  ed  prose  with  a  dab  of  metaphysics  and  plentyof  photographs.  I  must  go  now,  to  do  a  final  polishing  job  on  my  nov-  which,  by  the  way,  Macmillan  is  very  excited  about.&quot;  &quot;But,&quot;  asked  a  promising  student  named  Herman  W.  Pigeon,  &quot;can  just  any  young  pigeon  learn  to  write  stuff  that  brings  tears  to  the  eyesof  non-  readers  everywhere?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  said  Marvin  gen-  tly,  &quot;but  there  is  one  thing  I  am  sure  of.  There's  a  market  for  it.  In  other  words,  Herman,  there  may  not  be  many  pigeons  who  can  write  books,  but  there  are  always  plenty  of  pigeons  around  who  will  buy  them.&quot;  With  that,  Marvin  Stanley  Pigeon  lifted  up  into  the  air  and  flew  off  into  the  darkening  sky.  Higher  and  higher  he  flew,  until  at  last  he  was  but  a  tiny  speck  in  the  distance,  winging  north-  ward  in  the  direction  of  the  Mac-  Dowell  Colony.  "