38  CRIES  AND  VYHISPERS  \xc2\xa5  Dear  FriEnps:  We're  now  going  to  make  a  film  together.  Itwill  look  different  from  our  earlier  works,  and  this  script  will  also  look  different.  We  shall  strain  the  medium's  resources  in  a  rather  complicated  way.  More  than  usual,  therefore,  I  must  tell  you  what  itis  that  I'm  after;  then  we  can  get  together  and  talk  over  how  we  are  to  give  shape  to  our  problems,  cinemato-  graphically  and  artistically.  As  I  turn  this  project  over  in  my  mind,  it  never  stands  out  as  a  com-  pleted  whole.  What  it  most  resembles  is  a  dark,  flowing  stream-faces,  move-  ments,  voices,  gestures,  exclamations,  light  and  shade,  moods,  dreams.  Noth-  ing  fixed,  nothing  really  tangible  other  than  for  the  moment,  and  thenonly  an  illusory  moment.  A  dream,  a  long-  ing,  or  perhaps  an  expectation.  A  fear  in  which  that  to  be  feared  is  never  put  into  words.  I  could  go  on  indefi-  nitely  describing  key  and  color,  and  we  shouldn't  be  any  the  wiser.  We  had  better  get  started.  The  scene  is  set  in  a  stately  home,  half  mansion,  half  manor  house.  It  was     built  perhaps  some  time  in  the  eight-  centh  century,  to  serve  as  a  retreat  for  a  distinguished  gentleman's  cast-off  mistress-I  don't  know.  In  any  case,  it  is  not  too  large  and  not  too  small.  There  is  also  an  old,  rather  neglected  park,  aflame  with  autumnal  splendor.  It  is  all  remote,  still,  a  shade  dismal  at  times.  The  time  is  the  turn  of  the  century.  The  women's  clothes  are  lavish,  expen-  sive,  concealing  and  revealing.  We  needn't  get  caught  up  in  exact  dates;  it  is  not  the  precise  beginning  of  a  new  era,  and  can  just  as  well  be  the  eight-  cen-eighties  or  the  nineties.  The  im-  portant  thing  is  that  the  clothes,  by  their  power  of  suggestion,  are  in  ac-  cord  with  our  demand  for  atmosphere.  The  same  applies  very  much  to  the  interiors;  when  constructing  them,  we  must  bear  in  mind  the  possibilities  of  creating  the  lighting  conditions  we  desire-dawns  that  don't  look  like  dusk,  soft  firelight,  the  mysterious  in-  direct  light  on  a  day  when  it  is  snow-  ing,  the  gentle  radiance  from  an  oil  lamp.  The  torment  of  a  bright,  sunny  autumn  day.  A  solitary  candle  in  the  OCTOBER  21,  197  2  darkness  of  night,  and  all  the  restless  shadows  when  someone  wrapped  in  a  wide  peignoir  hurries  through  the  big  rooms.  ...  At  the  same  time,  it  is  important  that  our  d\xc3\xa9cor  never  be  obvious.  It  should  be  flexible,  enclosing,  elusive,  and  pres-  ent,  evocative  without  being  obtrusive.  There  is  a  peculiarity  about  it,  how-  ever:  all  our  interiors  are  red,  of  vari-  ous  shades.  Don't  ask  me  why  it  must  be  so,  because  I  don't  know.  I  have  puzzled  over  this  myself,  and  each  ex-  planation  has  seemed  more  comical  than  the  last.  The  bluntest  but  also  the  most  valid  is  probably  thatthe  whole  thing  is  something  internal  and  that  ever  since  my  childhood  I  have  pic-  tured  the  inside  of  the  soul  as  a  moist  membrane  in  shades  of  red.  Furniture,  props,  and  other  para-  phernalia  must  be  very  exact,  but  we  must  be  able  to  use  them  capriciously  and  just  as  they  suit  our  purpose.  But  everything  must  be  beautiful  and  har-  monious.  It  must  be  the  way  it  is  in  a  dream-a  thing  is  there  because  we  desire  it  or  need  it,  just  for  the  moment.  There  are  four  leading  characters  in  the  drama.  Four  women.  I  shall  give  a  brief  account  of  them,  without  any  order  of  precedence.  AcGNEs  is  thought  of  as  being  the  owner  of  the  estate,  having  lived  on  there  after  the  death  of  her  parents.  She  has     never  brought  herself  to  move  away  from  it;  she  has  belonged  there  since  birth,  and  has  let  her  life  flow  quietly  and  im-  perceptibly  along,  with-  out  any  meaning  or  mis-  fortune.  She  has  vague  artistic  ambitions-dab-  bling  in  painting,  playing  the  piano  a  little;  itis  all  rather  touching.  No  man  has  turned  up  in  her  life.  For  her,  love  has  been  a  confined  secret,  never  revealed.  Now,  at  the  age  of  thirty-seven,  she  has  cancer  of  the  womb  and  is  preparing  to  make  her  exit  from  the  world  as  quietly  and  submis-  sively  as  she  has  lived  in     it.  She  spends  most  of      the  night  and  the  day  in  bed-her  large  bed  in  her  parents'  handsome  but  cluttered  bedroom.  But  she  can  still  get  up  now  and  then,  until  the  pain  strikes  her  down.  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  She  complains  little  and  does  not  think  that  God  is  cruel.  In  her  prayers,  she  turns  to  Christ  in  meek  expectation.  She  is  very  emaciated,  but  her  belly  has  swelled  up  as  though  she  were  in  an  ad-  vanced  stage  of  pregnancy.  KARIN,  her  elder  sister  by  two  years,  married  money  and  moved  to  another  part  ofthe  country.  She  soon  found  out  that  her  marriage  was  a  mistake.  Her  husband,  who  is  twenty  years  her  senior,  is  repul-  sive  to  her  physically  and  mentally.  She  is  the  mother  of  five  children,  but  nevertheless  seems  untouched  by  maternity  and  matrimonial  misery.  She  presents  an  irreproach-  able  facade  and  is  considered  stuck-  up  and  reserved.  Her  loyalty  to  her  marriage  is  unshakable.  Deep  down,  under  a  surface  of  self-  control,  she  hides  an  impotent  hatred  of  her  husband  and  a  permanent  rage  against  life.  Her  anguish  and  despera-  tion  never  come  to  light,  except  in  her  dreams,  which  torment  her  from  time  to  time.  In  the  midst  of  this  tumult  of  bridled  fury,  she  bears  a  gift  for  affec-  tion,  and  devotion,  and  a  longing  for  nearness.  This  large  capital  lies  im-  movably  shut  in  and  unused.  Marta  is  the  youngest  sister.  She,  too,  is  wealthily  and  securely  married  to  a  good-looking  and  successful  man  in  a  suitable  social  position.  She  has  a  daugh-  ter  of  five;  she  herself  is  like  a  spoiled  child-gentle,  playful,  smiling,  and  with  an  ever-active  curiosity  and  love  of  pleasure.  She  is  very  much  taken  up  with  her  own  beauty  and  her  body's  po-  tentialities  for  pleasure.  She  is  com-  pletely  lacking  in  imagination  about  the  world  in  which  she  lives;  she  is  sufficient  unto  herself  and  is  never  worried  by  her  own  or  other  people's  morals.  ANNA  is  the  maidservant  in  the  house.  She  is  about  thirty.  As  a  girl,  she  had  a  daughter,  and  [REDACTED]  looked  after  her  and  the  child,  This  meant  that  Anna  became  very  attached  to  [REDACTED].  A  silent,  never-expressed  friendship  was  established  between  the  two  lone-  ly  women.  The  child  died  at  the  age  of  three,  but  the  relationship  between  Anna  and  [REDACTED]  endured.  Anna  is  very  taciturn,  very  shy,  unapproach-  able.  But  she  is  ever-present-watch-  ing,  prying,  listening.  Everything  about  Anna  is  weight.  Her  body,  her  face,  her  mouth,  the  expression  of  her  eyes.  But  she  doesn't  speak;  perhaps  she  doesn't  think,  either.  The  basic  situation  when  the  film  (or  whatever  we're  going  to  call  our  project)  begins  is  this:  [REDACTED]'s  disease  3 has  rapidly  gotworse,  and  the  doctor  does  not  give  her  much  longer  to  live.  The  two  sisters  (her  only  relatives)  have  come  to  her  deathbed.  HE  clocks  in  the  gray  dawn.  They  all  have  their  personalities,  their  voices.  In  the  vague,  uncertain  light  they  are  rather  extraordinary,  al-  most  obtrusive.  They  all  strike,  one  after  the  other,  and  some  mingle  their  chimes.  The  mantelpiece  clock  in  Ag-  nes's  bedroom,  with  its  flute-playing  shepherd,  is  the  only  one  not  going.  The  fire  has  burned  down  in  the  fireplace,  the  oil  lamp  flickers  and  sighs,  the  eyesof  the  family  portraits  stare,  round  and  indifferent,  at  the  new  day  approaching  doubtfully  among  the  au-  tumnal  trees  of  the  park.  [REDACTED]'s  eyes  are  inflamed  with  in-  somnia  and  suppressed  physical  pain.  She  has  been  lying  for  an  hour  or  two,  fighting  the  agony.  It's  better  to  get  up,  to  move  about,  sit  in  a  chair,  per-  haps  dip  into  a  book.  Perhaps  it  would  be  better  if  the  hands  of  the  clock  on  the  mantelpiece  were  allowed  to  move.  It's  harder  when  it  is  silent.  [REDACTED]  stands  for  a  long  time  by  the  window;  there  is  mist  and  drizzle  against  the  pane.  Everything  out  there  in  the  park  is  merely  a  blurred  outline.  Then  it  occurs  to  her  that  she  should  perhaps  write  something  in  her  diary.  Tensing  her  body  against  the  shooting  pain,  she  rummages  for  a  book  in  the  drawer  of  the  bedside  table,  opens  it,  and  sits  down  at  the  fragile  escritoire.  After  thinking  for  a  while,  she  writes:  &quot;It  is  early  on  Monday  morning  and  I'm  in  pain.  My  sisters  and  Anna  are  taking  it  in  turns  to  sit  up.  Kind  of  them.  I  needn't  feel  so  alone  with  the  dark.  ...&quot;  The  door  between  the  bedroom  and  the  drawing  room  is  ajar.  Out  there,  Maria  is  sitting  up-that  is  to  say,  she  has  dropped  off  into  a  sound  sleep,  sunk  deep  in  the  chair.  Her  face  is  like  that  of  a  child,  the  mouth  half  open,  the  features  relaxed.  [REDACTED]  blows  out  the  flickering  lamp.  Then  she  hears  Anna's  footsteps  in  the  corridor.  Anna  walks  through  the  dark  dining  room  and  puts  a  tray  down  on  the  table.  Her  thick  hair  is  plaited  in  a  pigtail;  she  is  barefoot  under  the  sim-  ple  nightgown.  [REDACTED]  gets  into  bed.  She  lies  on  her  side;  it  hurts  less  that  way.  She  hears  Anna  whispering  to  Maria.  Now  [REDACTED]  comes  into  the  drawing  room.  [REDACTED]  sees  them  through  the  rectangle  of  the  door-three  white-  clad,  gleaming  figures  in  the  autumn  morning  light.  The  servant  makes  up  the  fire,  which  has  died  down.  Maria  stretches  in  the  chair  and  yawns.  [REDACTED]  stands  in  the  doorway  looking  at  [REDACTED],  who  pretends  to  be  asleep.  Maria  gets  up  out  of  the  chair  and  the  warm  rug  in  which  she  has  wrapped  herself.  She  walks  over  to  a  large  mirror,  which  is  tilting  out  from  the  wall;  it  has  panels  of  blurred  glass  and  a  marble  ledge  and  an  ornamental  gold  frame.  She  stands  before  the  mirror  for  a  moment,  turning  her  face  toward  her  image  and  smiling  quickly,  then  turns  round  irresolutely  to  [REDACTED],  as  though  wanting  to  be  told  what  to  do.  But  [REDACTED]  is  busy  with  her  needlework  and  takes  no  notice  of  Maria.  With  a  sigh,  she  decides  to  go  to  her  room.  HE  scene  just  described  has  haunted  me  for  over  a  year.  At  first,  of  course,  I  didn't  know  the  names  of  the  four  women  and  why  they  were  " b"40  dressed  in  white  dresses  that  flowed  down  to  their  feet,  or  why  they  moved  about  in  a  gray  morning  light  in  a  room  with  red  wallpaper.  Time  and  again  I  have  rejected  this  picture,  re-  fusing  to  make  it  the  basis  of  a  film  (or  whatever  it  is).  But  the  picture  has  persisted,  and  slowly,  reluctantly,  I  have  identified  it:  Three  women  who  are  waiting  forthe  fourth  to  die  and  who  take  turns  to  watch  by  her.  If  I  now  write  that  the  wind  is  stir-  ring  in  the  big  trees  outside  the  bed-  room  windows  and  that  the  mist  is  be-  ginning  to  move  and  that  for  a  short  moment  the  sun  dyes  the  walls  of  the  room  a  deeper  shade-if  I  write  this,  then  this  time  I  mean  that  we  shall  try  to  achieve  this  phenomenon  in  one  way  or  another.  It  is  also  important  that  the  shadows  of  the  windows'  squares  light  up  and  grow  dim  gently,  almost  im-  perceptibly.  Maria  has  lain  down  to  rest  in  the  room  she  had  as  a  girl,  in  which  the  sunlight  is  touching  the  furniture  and  figures  of  a  doll's  house.  A  few  large  roses  glow  in  a  thin,  transparent  porce-  lain  bowl.  Opposite  the  bed  is  a  paint-  ing  of  her  mother  when  young-  dressed  in  white,  and  with  an  open,  searching  gaze  turned  on  the  beholder.  Maria  rocks  on  the  verge  between  sleeping  and  waking.  [REDACTED]  bends  over  her  needlework.  The  sunlight  reaches  her  from  the  side,  gliding  into  her  eyes  and  in  under  the  eyelids,  dazzling  and  hampering.  She  turns  her  head  toward  the  light  and  lowers  her  hands.  The  sun  floats  like  a  burning  ball  among  the  misty  clouds.  Suddenly  she  begins  to  weep,  not  vio-  lently  or  distractedly;  in  fact,  it  is  nothing  more  than  tears  running  down  her  cheeks.  Anna  is  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  in  her  garret  when  the  sun  sud-  denly  touches  her  hair.  Slowly  she  pulls  off  the  white  nightgown,  undoes  the  thick  plait,  and  lets  her  hair  stream  over  her  shoulders.  Then  she  begins  to  comb  it,  with  listless  movements.  Her  face  is  expressionless,  impassive.  On  the  rickety  table  is  a  bowl  of  apples  and  a  faded  photograph  of  Anna  with  her  dead  daughter.  This  is  one  of  Anna's  pleasant  mem-  ories:  In  the  drawing  room  there  is  a  big  music  box  that  plays  old  dance  tunes.  One  day,a  thunderstorm  breaks  over  the  house.  [REDACTED]  puts  on  all  the  lights  in  the  drawing  room.  [REDACTED]  and  Anna  and  Anna's  little  daughter  dance  and  play  together  while  the  rain  beats  against  the  windows.  Then  they  build  a  house  under  thebig  dining  table.  There  they  are  as  close  as  a  single   body,  in  a  common,  shuddering  en-  joyment,  undisturbed  by  the  violent  storm.  In  this  way,  they  forget  their  fear.  (If  only  we  could  produce  a  prop-  er  thunderstorm  for  once!  If  we  could  conjure  up  the  heavy,  strange  half-  light.  And  the  flashes  of  lightning  against  the  windows.  Heavens  above!  )  [REDACTED]  has  fallen  asleep  at  last;  the  pain  has  left  her,  her  body  has  grown  numb,  and  the  sunlight  quivers  for  a  few  moments  on  thebig  bed  in  which  she  lies,  small  and  hunched  up,  her  hands  open.  Now  and  then  a  shudder      passes  through  the  thin  bodv,  almost  like  a  sob,  but  it  is  nevertheless  at  peace  now,  and  the  little  clock,  with  its  flute,  playing  shepherd,  measures  the  time  undisturbed.  T  is  difficult  nowadays  to  depict  suf-  fering  and  death  in  words  or  pic-  tures.  Simulated  death  or  make-believe  suffering  is  apt  to  become  indecent,  ob-  scene.  If  we  nevertheless  set  about  de-  scribing  a  deathbed  in  some  detail,  we  do  so  not  out  of  curiosity  or  to  take  pleasure  in  frightening  ourselves  and  the  spectators.  We  do  so  in  order  to  have  afirm,  well-built  foundation  for  the  development  of  our  project.  I  picture  [REDACTED]  sitting  up  in  bed  with  a  lot  of  pillows  behind  her  back.  Anna  has  brought  her  some  gruel  and  is  sitting  by  the  bed.  But  [REDACTED]  has  no  appetite;  she  pushes  the  bowl  away,  as  " b" if  the  food  nauseated  her.  Maria  and  [REDACTED]  are  in  the  outer  room,  standing  by  a  window,  talking  quietly.  Another  window  is  open.  Perhaps  itis  Sunday  morning;  a  soft  light  fills  the  rooms.  [REDACTED]  seems  to  hear  something.  It  is  a  dog  barking  far  away.  A  large  bird  flies  up  silently  out  of  the  old  oak.  Then  [REDACTED]  hears  foot-  steps.  She  says  straight  out,  and  as  yet  with  no  fear,  that  someone  is  walking  out  there.  The  three  women  look  at  her  inquiringly.  She  repeats-someone  is  walking  out  there.  Suddenly  the  drawing-room  door  opens,  and  the  Doctor  comes  in  with  his  black  bag.  He  pays  his  respects  to  [REDACTED]  and  Maria,  goes  in  to  [REDACTED],  without  bothering  to  shut  the  door  be-  hindhim,  sits  down  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  and  talks  mumblingly  to  his  pa-  tient,  He  examines  her  perfunctorily,  feeling  her  swollen  belly,  taking  her  pulse,  fingering  the  glands  in  her  arm-  pits.  [REDACTED]  has  bent  her  head  against  her  chest  and  tries  to  hold  the  Doctor's  hand  between  her  hands.  The  Doctor  is  a  man  of  about  forty,  with  a  sallow,  well-shaped,  but  slightly  bloated  face.  He  hides  his  eyes  behind  a  shining  pince-nez.  His  hair  is  already  gray.  He  is  dressed  in  a  crumpled  and  ill-fitting  suit.  His  hands  are  large  and  soft,  his  voice  well  modulated,  with  a  sarcastic  tone.  [REDACTED]  goes  in  to  [REDACTED],  and  Maria  accompanies  the  Doctor  to  the  front  door.  They  stand  in  silence,  rather  at  a  loss,  without  saying  goodbye.  Maria  smiles  and  looks  at  the  man  exhorting-  ly.  As  he  goes  to  open  the  door  she  quickly  takes  his  hand  and  puts  it  to  her  mouth.  Then  she  throws  her  arms  round  his  neck  and  kisses  him.  They  stagger  against  the  wall  in  a  passionate  embrace.  -When  can  I  come  to  you?  she  says.  He  shakes  his  head  and  frees  him-  self.  g  oneEs's  Diary:  Mother  is  in  my  thoughts  near-  ly  every  day.  She  loved  Maria  because  they  were  so  alike  in  every  way.  I  was  too  like  Father  for  her  to  be  able  to  stand  me.  When  Mother  spoke  to  me  in  her  light,  excitable  way,  I  didn't  understand  what  she  meant.  I  tried  terribly  hard,  but  never  managed  to  please  her.  Then  she  would  get  im-  patient.  She  was  nearly  always  im-  patient,  mostly  with  [REDACTED].  I  was  sick-  ly  and  puny  as  a  child,  but  [REDACTED]  was  always  being  scolded,  because  Mother  thought  she  was  so  clumsy  and  unin-  telligent.  Mother  and  Maria,  on  the  other  hand,  had  so  much  to  talk  about.  Ioften  used  to  wonder  what  they  were  whispering  and  laughing  about,  and  why  they  got  on  so  well  together.  They  always  had  little  secrets,  and  they  used  to  tease  me  and  [REDACTED].  I  loved  Mother.  Because  she  was  so  gentle  and  beautiful  and  alive.  Because  she  was  so-I  don't  know  how  to  put  it-because  she  was  so  present.  But  she  could  also  be  cold  and  indifferent.  When  I  used  to  come  and  ask  her  for  affection,  she  would  rebuff  me  and  be  playfully  cruel,  saying  she  hadn't  time.  Yet  I  couldn't  help  feeling  sorry  for  her,  and  now  that  I'm  older  I  under-  stand  her  much  better.  I  should  like  so  much  to  see  her  again  and  tell  her  what  I  have  understood  of  her  ennui,  her  impatience,  her  panic  and  refusal  to  give  up.  I  remember  once-it  was  autumn-  I  came  running  into  the  drawing  room;  I  suppose  I  had  something  im-  portant  to  do  (one  always  has  at  the  age  of  ten).  Then  I  saw  Mother  sitting  there,  in  one  of  thebig  chairs.  She  sat  there  in  herwhite  dress,  quite  still,  looking  out  of  the  window  with  her  hands  resting  on  the  table.  She  was  leaning  forward  slightly  in  a  peculiar,  stiff  way.  I  went  up  toher.  Then  she  gave  me  a  look  so  full  of  sorrow  that  I  nearly  burst  into  tears.  But  instead  I  began  to  stroke  her  cheek.  She  closed  her  eyes  and  let  me  do  it.  We  were  very  close  to  each  other  that  time.  Suddenly  she  came  to  herself  and  " b"42     said,  &quot;Just  look  at  your  hands.  They're  filthy.  Whatever  have  you  been  up  to?&quot;  Then,  overcome  with  affection,  she  took  me  in  her  arms  and  smiled  at  me  and  kissed  me.  I  was  dazzled  by  these  riches.  Just  as  suddenly,  she  began  to  weep  and  begged  my  forgiveness  over  and  over.  I  didn't  understand  a  thing;  all  I  could  do  was  to  hold  her  tightly  until  she  freed  herself.  Her  face  changed  and,  giving  her  little  laugh,  she  dabbed  her  eyes.  &quot;How  ridicu-  lous&quot;  was  all  she  said.  Then  she  got  up  and  left  me  with  my  tumult.  T  is  an  autumn  night.  [REDACTED]  is  re-  clining  in  the  big  bed.  Her  eyes  are  closed  and  her  forehead  has  beads  of  sweat  on  it.  Her  mouth  is  bitten  and  covered  with  sores.  Now  and  then  her  body  shudders  with  the  constant  pain.  At  the  moment,  however,  she  is  doz-  ing.  In  the  drawing  room  (with  the  door  to  the  bedroom  wide  open),  [REDACTED]  is  bending  over  her  needlework.  A  fire  is  burning  in  the  open  fireplace.  The  oil  lamp  sheds  its  soft  light  over  her  face  and  hands.  It  is  quite  still.  The  clocks  tick,  conversing  in  low,  gentle  voices.  [REDACTED]  puts  down  her  needlework  and  fixes  her  eyes  on  the  large  Italian  painting  of  St.  Theresa  in  the  sacred  third  stage  of  prayer.  Let  us  devote  a  little  time  to  [REDACTED]:  She  is  sitting  at  table  with  her  husband       in  the  dining  room,  with  its  heavy  fur-  niture  and  dark-red  gilt-leather  wall-  paper.  At  this  time,  they  are  living  in  the  old  family  house  for  a  brief  period.  It  is  already  evening  and  the  thick  window  curtains  are  drawn.  Table-  cloth  and  solid  silver  gleam  in  the  yel-  low  light  of  the  lamps.  Husband  and  wife  aredressed  in  black.  Perhaps  itis  Good  Friday,  or  else  they  are  in  mourning  for  some  deceased  relative,  or  they  may  have  been  to  an  afternoon  reception  at  the  Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs.  Anna-  she,too,in  black,  servant  black-  stands  in  discreet  attendance  with  low-  ered  head,  waiting  to  be  told  to  serve  the  dishes.  [REDACTED]'s  husband  is  a  good  deal  old-  er;  his  face  is  lean,  his  mouth  tight-  lipped,  his  eyes  are  calm  but  piercing,  his  smile  is  amiable  but  sarcastic.  His  head  shakes  slightly.  His  hands  are  large,  with  long,  blunt  fingers,  and  hairy.  The  short  beard  and  the  gray  hair  are  well  trimmed.  Husband  and  wife  dine  in  silence.  This  silence  is  charged  with  hatred-  a  mutual  hatred  that  is  almost  tangi-  ble,  without  mercy  or  letup.  Neither  of  them  has  taken  a  deep  breath  of  relief  for  the  last  fifteen  years.  You  could  al-  most  speak  of  the  loyalty  of  total  hatred.  They  owe  each  other  nothing.  She  has  two  broad  wedding  rings,  in  the  Swedish  fashion,  and  between   them  a  couple  of  costly  dia-  mond  rings.  She  is  also  wear-  ing  a  rope  of  large,  real  pearls,  and  earrings  of  an  old-fash-  ioned  shape.  He  has  given  her  many  presents  of  jewelry  over  the  years.  As  I  have  said,  they  dine  in  silence,  but  it  isn't  just  an  ordinary,  slack  silence.  And  there's  this,  too:  The  slight  shaking  of  his  head.  Now  he  turns  to  Anna  and  asks  her  politely  to  serve  him  more  of  the  fish;  she  hurries  over  with  the  dish,  which  has  been  keep-  ing  hot  on  the  sideboard.  He  smiles  and  thanks  her,  at  the  same  time  asking  his  wife  if  she  will  keep  him  company,  but  she  won't  (a  shake  of  the  head).  He  smiles  at  this,  too,  confirmingly:  Let's  see  who  can  stick  it  out  the  longest.  Who  will  be  the  first  to  fall,  in  this  grim  and  never-ending  duel?  -What  are  you  smiling  at?  he  says.  -I'm  not  smiling.  -Shall  we  have  coffee  in  the  drawing  room  or  shall  we  go  straight  to  bed?  -I  don't  want  any  coffee,  thank  you.  Her  wineglass  tips  over.  The  thin  bowl  with  its  faint  pattern  breaks  in  splinters,  and  the  wine  spreads  over  the  whiteness  of  the  cloth.  She  gives  him  a  frightened  glance,  but  he  pre-  tends  not  to  notice  what  has  happened.  He  finishes  his  meal,  wipes  his  mouth  with  studied  care.  Then  he  tosses  the  crumpled  napkin  onto  the  table  and  gets  up.  -It's  late,  he  says.  I  suggest  we  go  to  bed.  He  doesn't  wait  for  her  assent  or  refusal;  why  should  he?  Leaving  the  two  women,  he  closes  the  door  of  his  study  silently  behind  him.  Anna  begins  at  once  to  clear  away.  When  her  back  is  turned,  [REDACTED]  picks  up  one  of  the  small  splinters  of  the  wineglass  and  holds  it  between  thumb  and  forefinger  a  moment.  Yes,  it  is  small  and  sharp,  with  needlelike  points  sticking  out,  rather  like  a  star.  -It's  nothing  but  lies,  she  says  quietly  and  distinctly  and  dispassionate-  ly.  If  s  nothing  but  lies.  Beyond  the  bedroom  is  [REDACTED]'s  bou-  doir.  She  is  sitting  at  the  mirror  and  letting  Anna  undress  her.  From  the  black  dress,  from  the  jewelry,  from  the  stays  and  knickers  and  stockings  and  crisp  linen,  a  woman's  body  detaches  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  itself.  It  seems  to  grow  and  expand,  freed  from  the  weight  and  restriction  of  the  clothes.  Having  put  on  her  night-  gown  and  peignoir,  she  stands  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  ata  loss.  Anna  looks  at  her.  [REDACTED]  turns  toward  the  servant  and  says  quietly  -Don't  look  at  me.  Don't  look  at  me  like  that,  Isay.  Then  she  raises  her  ring  hand  and  strikes  her  hardon  the  cheek.  Anna  jerks  up  one  shoulder,  but  her  eyes  don't  waver.  -Forgive  me,  [REDACTED]  says,  fright-  enedby  the  expression  in  the  woman's  eyes.  Forgive  me.  But  Anna  shakes  her  head:  Not  this,  not  forgiveness.  -You  can  go,  [REDACTED]  says.  Anna  bobs  and  withdraws,  closing  the  door  behind  the  curtain.  The  little  glass  splinter  with  its  sharp  points  is  lying  on  the  dressing  table.  [REDACTED]  picks  it  up,  sits  on  the  stool,  and  pulls  up  her  nightgown.  Then,  her  legs  wide,  she  carefully  inserts  the  splinter  in  her  vagina.  She  sits  for  a  few  moments,  leaning  forward.  Then  she  stands  up  and  brushes  the  hair  and  the  cold  sweat  off  her  forehead;  her  eyes  are  black  and  staring.  -It's  nothing  but  lies,  she  says  again  in  the  same  absent-  minded,  dispassionate  voice.  She  opens  the  door  to  the  bedroom.  Her  husband  turns  toward  her;  he  is  wearing  a  full-length  dressing  gown  and  is  standing  with  an  open  book  in  his  hand  and  spectacles  on  his  forehead.  She  goes  past  him,  pulls  up  her  gown,  and  bares  her  private  parts.  -You're  bleeding,  her  husband  says  in  disgust.  Then  [REDACTED]  smiles.  N  the  drawing  room,  [REDACTED]  smiles  at  the  picture  of  St.  Theresa  at  her  devotions.  It  is  a  sarcastic,  almost  ob-  scene  smile.  She  resumes  her  needle-  work.  Anna  enters  the  room  silently.  [REDACTED]  gets  up  at  once,  putting  the  needlework  in  a  plaited  basket  that  is  standing  beside  her  on  small  cane  legs.  She  says  something  to  Anna  and  goes  over  to  the  door  and  looks  at  [REDACTED],  who  pretends  to  be  asleep.  -I  think  she's  asleep,  [REDACTED]  says,  turning  toward  Anna.  Suddenly  and  vaguely,  they  sense  the  nearness  of  death.  They  look  at  each  other  in  a  moment  of  open  fear.  In  this  moment,  they  share  the  immobility  of  night,  the  stifling  silence,  the  suffering  face  of  the  sick  woman,  faintly  illu-  minated  by  the  night  light,  the  whis-  pering  voices  of  the  clocks.  --I  feel  cold,  [REDACTED]  says  to  herself.  Then  she  leaves  the  room.  Anna  goes  over  to  the  oil  lamp  and  turns  down  the  wick  until  there  is  only  a  faint  glow.  She  sits  down  so  that  she  can  see  [REDACTED],  drawing  the  dark  shawl  more  closely  about  her.  [REDACTED]  opens  her  eyes  and  whispers  something.  She  has  to  repeat  it.  -Come  here,  Anna!  Come  to  me!  You're  so  far  away  Anna  gets  up  at  once  and  closes  the  door  behind  her.  She  stands  at  thefoot  of  the  bed.  -Come  to  me,  be  with  me,  [REDACTED]  murmurs.  Letting  the  shawl  slip  to  the  floor,  Anna  takes  off  her  warm,  thick  stock-  ings  and  snuggles  down  into  bed.  Then  she  opens  her  nightgown,  baring  her  large  breasts,  and  puts  her  arms  gen-  tly  round  the  sick  woman,  whispering  inaudible  words  of  comfort,  cradling  her,  kissing  her  mouth  and  cheeks,  holding  her  tight.  [REDACTED]  sinks  into  her  tenderness  and  grows  calm;  the  hard  tension  in  her  tormented  body  softens  and  relaxes.  -How  good  you  are,  she  whispers.  You're  so  kind  and  good.  Anna  strokes  the  invalid's  head  and  face  with  her  large,  moist  hand.  Then  they  fall  asleep,  embracing  each  other.  BOUT  seven  o'clock  in  the  morn-  ing,  in  the  fluid  gray  dawn,  Ag-  nes  falls  into  a  coma.  Her  breathing  is  43  deep  and  frightening,  her  mouth  gapes  as  if  she  were  suffocating,  and  her  pulse  is  so  feeble  that  it  can  hardly  be  felt.  Her  cheeks  have  dark-red  blotches,  while  her  lips  are  blue  and  swollen.  About  nine-thirty,  the  deep  breathing  changes  to  violent  convulsions,  which  twistthe  invalid's  arms  and  legs.  Her  eyes  half  open  and  she  mumbles  slur-  ringly,  The  symptoms  of  choking  in-  crease,  and  she  flings  herself  forward  as  if  a  giant  hand  had  seized  her  body,  pressing  it  together.  After  another  hour  or  so,  the  attack  passes  and  the  tortured  body  relaxes.  The  face  resumes  its  natural  pallor.  Her  breathing  now  is  almost  inaudible.  She  asks  for  something  to  drink.  Her  lips  are  dry  and  bitten,  her  thin  hair  matted  and  damp  with  sweat.  Anna  and  [REDACTED]  help  each  other  make  up  the  bed  with  clean  sheets.  They  wash  the  wasted  body  with  warm  water;  they  comb  her  hair  and  get  her  into  a  clean  nightgown.  The  Doctor  comes  and  carries  out  his  quick  examination.  The  invalid  is  given  an  injection  of  morphineand  sinks  into  a  light,  restless  sleep.  The  other  women  wait  in  the  drawing  room  out-  side  the  bedroom,  each  thrown  back  on     " b"44  her  own  thoughts.  About  five  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  the  sun  breaks  out  like  shimmering  horizontal  spear  points.  Those  keeping  vigil  stare,  dazzled  and  mute,  into  the  hard,  bright  light.  [REDACTED]  moans  and  the  frightening  deep  breath-  ing  starts  again.  This  time  the  convul-  sions  are  more  violent.  The  body  is  flung  to  and  fro  in  the  bed.  Suddenly  she  shouts  -Can't  you  help  me?  Help  me,  I  don't  want  to!  I  don't  want  to.  She  utters  a  piercing  scream  and  beats  about  her  with  her  arms  until  a  new  attack  of  choking  cuts  off  her  shrieks  and  she  bends  backward,  mouth  agape.  The  Doctor  gives  her  another  dose  of  morphine,  but  nothing  helps.  A  gi-  gantic  force,  which  seems  to  come  from  without,shakes  the  racked  body.  A  sudden  vomiting  spurts  over  the  bed.  She  shouts  over  and  over  again,  the  words  no  longer  distinguishable.  Then  she  suddenly  sinks  down,  deep  down  into  the  bed;  her  body  trembles  vio-  lently  and  her  eyes  come  open.  Maria  begins  to  weep-perhaps  it  is  the  easing  of  the  tension  and  fear.  [REDACTED]  passes  one  hand  across  her  face,  as  if  to  brush  away  a  cobweb.  Anna  helps  the  Doctor  to  put  the  dead  wom-  an  to  rights.  A  window  is  opened.  Ag-  nes's  eyes  are  closed  and  her  hands  laid  over  her  breast.  The  sunlight  fades  slowly  and  imperceptibly  ;  the  big  rooms  are  filled  with  a  bluish  light.  No  one  has  a  mind  to  light  candles.  A  mysteri-  ous  calm  has  set  in.  A}NES\xe2\x80\x99S  Diary:  Sometimes  I  want  to  cover  my  face  with  my  hands  and  never  take  them  away  again.  How  am  I  to  grapple  with  the  loneliness?  The  long  days,  the  silent  evenings,  the  sleepless  nights.  Whatever  am  Ito  do  with  all  this  time  that  pours  over  me?  Then  I  go  into  my  despair  and  let  it  burn  me.  I've  found  that  if  I  try  to  avoid  it  or  shut  it  out,  everything  becomes  much  harder.  It's  better  to  open  yourself  outward,  to  accept  what  torments  or  hurts  you.  It's  better  not  to  shut  your  eyes  or  try  to  dodge  it,  as  I  did  before.  When  I  write  about  loneliness,  though,  I'm  being  unfair.  Anna  is  my  friend  and  companion,  and  I  think  her  loneliness  is  worse  than  mine.  After  all,  I  can  console  myself  with  my  paint-  ing,  my  music,  and  my  books.  Anna  has  nothing.  Sometimes  I  try  to  talk  to  her  about  herself,  but  it  makes  her  shy  and  reticent.  ET  us  now  imagine  a  cloudy  autumn  morning,  almost  dark  and  com-  pletely  still:  the  day  after  [REDACTED]'s  death,  The  layers-out  have  come-two  wid-  ows,  aged  and  experienced.  Two  other  women  are  also  there  to  clean  and  tidy  up.  The  house  is  full  of  whisper-  ing  voices  and  the  smell  of  coffee.  The  layers-out  shut  themselves  up  in  the  bedroom  with  the  dead  woman  and  perform  their  important  task  with  ceremonious  scrupulousness.  They  wash,  comb,  clothe,  and  make  up  the  body,  and  fill  out  the  cheeks  with  cot-  ton  wool.  The  long  white  stockings,  the  white  satin  shoes,  the  petticoat  and  the  smooth,  newly  ironed  gown,  with  the  wide  sleeves.  The  little  bonnet  over  the  hair,  with  its  discreet  ribbon  under  the  chin.  Finally,  the  yellow  rose  between  the  softly  colored  hands.  Then  the  candles  are  lighted,  thesheets  hung  in  front  of  the  windows,  the  worldly  bed  hangings  removed,  the  room  cleared  of  pictures  and  furniture.  The  doors  into  the  drawing  room  are  thrown  open  and  the  two  layers-out,  who  have  now  changed  into  their  for-  mal  Sunday  best,  of  seemly  black  silk,  stand  curtsying,  with  the  self-assurance  of  professional  yet  humble  pride.  They  invite  the  old  chaplain  and  the  sisters   and  the  maidservant  to  enter  this  room,  which  has  been  dedicated  by  their  dili-  gence  and  worthy  knowledge.  (I  don't  quite  know  how  to  describe  this.  It  should  all  be  like  a  movernrent-almost  a  ritual  dance  without  being  exagger-  ated.  Perhaps  a  pavane  for  a  dead  in-  fanta.)  The  chaplain,  who  is  an  old  and  holy  man,  turns  round  to  make  sure  that  the  old  cleaning  women  are  also  present  in  the  doorway,  that  everyone  has  stopped  coughing  and  scraping  their  feet,  that  all  is  quiet.  His  face  is  calm,  severely  dignified,  seemly;  his  lean  body  is  enclosed  in  the  black  uniform  of  office.  When  all  is  quiet,  he  clasps  his  hands  and  says  a  prayer  over  the  dead  [REDACTED].  -God,  our  Father,  in  His  infinite  wisdom  and  mercy,  has  decided  to  call  you  home  in  the  flower  of  your  youth.  Prior  to  that,  He  found  you  worthy  to  bear  a  heavy  and  prolonged  suffering.  You  submitted  to  it  patiently  and  un-  complainingly,  in  the  certain  knowl-  edge  that  your  sins  would  be  forgiven  through  the  death  on  the  Cross  of  your  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  May  your  Father  in  Heaven  have  mercy  on  your  soul  when  you  step  into  His  presence.  May  He  let  His  angels  disrobe  you  of  the  memory  of  your  earthly  pain.  The  chaplain  falls  silent,  as  though  overcome.  He  stands  perplexed,  with  his  eyes  shut.  Then  he  kneels  down  stiffly;  the  others  present  also  kneel  without  understanding,  uncertain  and  unaccustomed.  He  passes  one  hand  " b" &quot;  across  his  eyes  and  supports  himself  against  a  chair  with  the  other.  -If  it  is  so  that  you  have  gathered  our  suffering  in  your  poor  body,  if  it  is  so  that  you  have  borne  it  with  you  through  death,  if  it  is  so  that  you  meet  God  over  there  in  the  other  land,  if  it  is  so  that  He  turns  His  face  toward  you,  if  it  is  so  that  you  can  then  speak  t  h  e  l  a  n  g  u  a  g  e  t  h  a  t  t  h  i  s  G  o  d  u  n  d  e  r  -  s  t  a  n  d  s  ,  i  f  i  t  i  s  s  o  t  h  a  t  y  o  u  c  a  n  t  h  e  n  s  p  e  a  k  t  o  t  h  i  s  G  o  d  .  I  f  i  t  i  s  s  o  ,  p  r  a  y  f  o  r  u  s  .  A  g  n  e  s  ,  m  y  d  e  a  r  l  i  t  t  l  e  c  h  i  l  d  ,  l  i  s  t  e  n  t  o  w  h  a  t  I  a  m  n  o  w  t  e  l  l  i  n  g  y  o  u  .  P  r  a  y  f  o  r  u  s  w  h  o  a  r  e  l  e  f  t  h  e  r  e  o  n  t  h  e  d  a  r  k  ,  d  i  r  t  y  e  a  r  t  h  u  n  d  e  r  a  n  e  m  p  t  y  a  n  d  c  r  u  e  l  H  e  a  v  e  n  .  L  a  y  y  o  u  r  b  u  r  d  e  n  o  f  s  u  f  f  e  r  i  n  g  a  t  t  h  e  G  o  d  '  s  f  e  e  t  a  n  d  a  s  k  H  i  m  t  o  p  a  r  -  don  us.  Ask  Him  to  free  us  at  last  from  our  anxiety,  our  weariness,  and  our  deep  doubt.  Ask  Him  for  a  meaning  to  our  lives.  [REDACTED],  you  who  have  suf-  fered  so  unimaginably  and  so  long,  you  must  be  worthy  to  plead  our  cause.  Bewildered  and  exhausted,  the  chap-  lain  gets  to  his  feet  and  looks  about  him  with  an  embarrassed  and  sad  " b"46  smile.  Feels  there  is  need  of  an  ex-  planation.  -She  was  my  confirmation  child.  We  often  had  long  and  intimate  talks.  Her  faith  was  stronger  than  mine.  He  breaks  off  and  again  becomes  the  official  who  knows  how  to  conduct  himself  in  the  proper  manner.  His  smile  grows  formal.  He  smoothes  his  cas-  sock,  which  has  puckered  across  his  stomach,  then  moves  around  and  shakes  hands  with  everyone.  To  [REDACTED]:  -If  you  will  come  to  my  office  tomorrow,  we  can  discuss  the  formalities  of  the  funeral.  Maria  offers  to  see  the  old  clergy-  man  to  the  door.  When  they  are  by  themselves,  Maria  takes  him  by  the  arm.  -May  I  have  a  word  with  you,  Uncle  Isak?  He  nods  rather  vaguely.  Maria  opens  the  door  of  an  almost  empty  room  (containing  nothing  but  a  large  table  over  by  the  window  and  an  old   kitchen  chair  in  the  middle  of  the  floor).  She  goes  over  to  the  window  and  props  her  arms  against  the  table.  The  old  man  remains  standing  just  in-  side  the  door.  -What  do  you  want  to  say  to  me,  Maria?  -Can  you,  Uncle  Isak,  forgive  me  my  sins?  'This  moment?  The  old  man  pauses  before  answer-  ing,  then  says  -I  cannot  forgive  you  anything.  But  you  can  forgive  your-  self.  --Please  saya  blessing  over  me,  Maria  says  urgently.  Please,  I  want  you  to.  He  lays  his  hand  on  her  shoulder,  and  she  kneels  down  willingly.  Raising  her  head,  she  looks  up  at  him  trustfully  and  expectantly.  He  leans  forward  and  quickly  makes  the  sign  of  the  cross  over  her  brow.  She  closes  her  eyes,  revelling  in  it.  -Maria,  you  who  bear  the  name  of  the  Holy  Virgin,  may  you  always  live      in  your  own  light.  Free  from  guilt  and  remorse.  Enclosed  in  the  purity  that  is  your  freedom.  Again  making  the  sign  of  the  cross  over  her  brow  he  asks  gently  -Are  you  satisfied  now?  -Yes,  I  think  so,  Maria  answers.     ET  us  deal  with  an  episode  from  Maria's  earlier  life.  The  setting  is  the  same,  however.  I  mean  the  fluid  red  colors,  the  heavy  furniture,  the  rich  curtains,  the  pictures,  the  carpets.  (Come  to  that,  everything  that  hap-  pens  in  our  film  can  easily  take  place  in  the  same  environment;  that  in  itself  is  no  trouble.)  The  family  doctor  is  on  an  evening  visit.  Anna's  three-year-old  daughter  is  ill.  Anna  is  sitting  on  a  chair,  not  weeping,  in  full  control  of  herself;  it  is  just  that  her  shoulders  have  become  so  heavy  and  round.  He  finishes  his  examination  and  goes  out  into  the  kitchen,  where  he  washes  his  hands  in  a  basin  already  put  out  for  him.  He  dries  the  large,  pale  hands  very  carefully  and  then  puts  on  his  jacket,  which  Maria  is  holding  for  him.  Turning  to  Anna,  he  says  something  kind  and  encouraging.  She  bobs,  but  says  nothing.  He  pats  her  cheek;  she  lowers  her  head  and  bobs  again.  -I  expect  you're  hun-  gry,  Doctor,  Maria  says.  We've  laid  the  table  in  the  dining  room,  if  you'd  care  for  some  supper.  The  Doctor  thanks  her  politely  and  accepts  with  pleasure.  The  table  is  laid  at  one  end.  They  sit  down  and  Maria  pours  out  some  wine.  They  toast  each  other  in  silence.  -[REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  are  still  in  4974616c79,  Maria  says,  making  conversation.  I  had  a  letter  from  them  last  week-why,  no,  it  was  on  Wednesday.  [REDACTED]  is  much  better.  She's  not  cough-  ing  any  more  and  has  taken  up  her  painting  again.  [REDACTED]'s  husband  is  going  down  to  join  them  at  Easter.  They're  having  good  weather-almost  sum-  mer.  Though  the  evenings  are  chilly,  of  course.  'The  Doctor  lifts  his  head  and  regards  her  without  any  pretense.  -Where's  your  husband?  he  asks.  -Joakim's  in  town  on  business  and  won't  be  back     " b" until  tomorrow.  I  told  him  I  was  go-  ing  to  ask  you  to  come  and  look  at  Anna's  little  girl.  He  sent  his  regards.  The  Doctor  gives  a  little  smile  and  sips  his  wine.  Maria  drains  her  glass  and  pours  out  more  wine  for  herself  and  the  guest.  -I've  made  up  a  bed  for  you  in  the  guest  room,  Maria  says  abruptly.  The  weather's  much  too  bad  for  you  to  go  home  this  evening.  The  Doctor  smiles  to  himself,  and  devotes  himself  for  a  time  to  the  good  food.  -You've  changed,  Maria  declares.  Is  there  someone  else?  -There's  always  someone  else,  the  Doctor  replies  gravely.  Anyway,  I  didn't  think  that  that  problem  interest-  ed  you.  -It  doesn't,  either,  Maria  answers  with  a  sigh.  The  guest  room  is  warm  and  cozy.  A  fire  glows  in  the  tiled  stove;the  large  bed  with  all  its  pillows  and  bol-  sters  gleams  in  the  dim  light.  The  Doctor  has  settled  down  in  an  easy  chair;  he  has  put  on  his  spectacles  and  is  deep  in  a  book.  There  is  a  knock  at  the  door.  Before  he  has  time  to  answer,  it  opens  and  Maria  comes  in.  She  is  in  her  nightgown  and  peignoir;  her  long  hair  hangs  loose.  The  Doctor  gets  up,  lets  the  book  fall  to  the  floor,  and  takes  her  by  the  arms.  -You  have  spectacles  nowadays,  she  says.  He  gives  her  a  searching  look.  -What  isit  you  want?  he  asks.  -Why  are  you  so  formal?  Maria  whispers.  Can't  we  forget  the  past&quot;  She  kisses  him  lightly  on  the  cheek,  then  at  the  corner  of  the  mouth,  then  on  the  lips.  The  Doctor  smiles,  but  it  is  not  a  nice  smile.  Holding  her  firmly  by  the  arms,  he  turns  her  toward  the  wall  mirror.  He  lifts  the  table  lamp,  places  it  on  a  small  shelf  so  that  it  illuminates  their  faces,  and  turns  up  the  wick.  Maria  offers  no  resistance.  She  falls  in  with  this  trustingly,  as  if  it  were  an  in-  teresting  game,  something  to  be  taken  advantage  of  in  order  to  make  the  mo-  ment  more  exciting.  She  confronts  her  reflection  calmly.  -Take  a  good  look  at  yourself,  Marie!  [He  calls  her  Maric,  not  Ma-  ria.]  You  are  beautiful.  Perhaps  more  beautiful  than  before.  But  you  have  changed.  I  want  you  to  see  that  you've  changed.  Your  eyes  nowadays  cast  quick,  calculating  side-glances.  Be-  fore,  you  looked  straight  ahead,  open-  ly,  without  disguising  yourself.  Your  mouth  has  taken  on  an  expression  of  discontent  and  hunger.  It  used  to  be  so  soft!  Your  complexion  is  paler  than  be-  " b"fore;  you  use  makeup.  Your  fine,  broad  forehead  now  has  four  scratches  above  each  eyebrow-no,  you  can't  see  in  this  light,  but  it's  noticeable  in  broad  daylight.  Do  you  know  where  those  scratches  come  from?  It's  indifference  that  has  made  its  mark  there.  Do  you  see  this  fine  line  from  the  ear  to  the  point  of  the  chin?  It's  no  longer  so  implicit.  It  shows  you're  easygoing  and  indolent.  And  here  at  the  root  of  the  nose-can  you  see?  You  sneer  too  often,  Marie!  Why  do  you  sneer?  Do  you  see,  Marie?  And  under  your  eyes  the  sharp,  almost  invisible  wrinkles  of  boredom  and  impatience?  Maria  has  listened  to  the  Doctor's  lecture  with  a  growing  smile.  -You're  scolding  me,  she  says  gently.  Can  you  really  see  all  that  in  my  face?  --No,  the  Doctor  replies.  I  feel  it  when  you  kiss  me.  She  shakes  her  head.  -You're  just  pulling  my  leg,  she  says  with  a  laugh,  but  grows  suddenly  serious.  I  know  where  you  see  it,  she  says  quickly.  -And  where  would  that  be?  -You  see  it  in  yourself.  You  see  it  in  yourself.  The  Doctor  gives  a  slight  nod  and  turns  her  toward  him.  -It's  because  we're  so  alike,  you  and  I,  she  says  lightly.  -Alike  in  what  way?  he  asks.  -Oh,  I  can't  be  bothered  figuring  it  out  and  I  don't  care  anyway,  Maria  says.  Then  he  says  suddenly  -Selfish-  ness.  Coldness,  indifference.  -Your  arguments  have  nearly  al-  ways  bored  me,  Maria  whispers,  pout-  ing.  You  love  saying  interesting  things.  About  yourself  and  other  people.  -And  you  love  looking  at  yourself  in  the  mirror.  Is  there  any  difference?  He  kisses  her  and  touches  her  lightly.  Are  there  no  extenuating  circumstances  for  people  such  as  you  and  I?  he  asks  suddenly.  -I've  no  need  of  being  pardoned,  Maria  replies,  kissing  him  again  and  again.  Next  morning,  Joakim,  Maria's  hus-  band,  returns  from  his  business  trip.  He  is  a  slim,  restless  person  with  finely  chiselled  features  and  dark,  searching  eyes.  He  has  withdrawn  to  his  study  and  immersed  himself  in  the  daily  pa-  per.  Now  and  then  he  cautiously  sips  the  coffee  that  Anna  has  just  served  him.  Maria  has  come  into  the  room  and  sat  down  on  the  broad  sofa.  She  is  dandling  her  small  daughter  and  talk-  ing  baby  talk  to  her  and  her  doll.  -The  Doctor  was  here  yesterday,  she  says  to  her  husband.  He  sent  you  his  regards  and  hopes  you  can  soon  meet  and  play  chess  again.  I  asked  him     " b"to  stay  the  night-it  was  such  dirty  weather  last  evening.  He  left  early  this  morning,  before  any  ofus  were  up.  Did  you  have  anice  time  in  town  or  was  it  nothing  but  hard  work?  Her  husband  lowers  his  paper  and  nods  without  saying  anything.  He  sips  his  coffee  and  smiles  at  his  daughter,  who  holds  up  her  doll.  -We've  had  an  invitation  from  the  Egermans,  at  Hogsiter,  Maria  goes  on.  They  want  us  to  stay  over  Easter.  I  think  it  would  be  rather  nice,  I  mean,  for  a  change.  What  do  you  say?  We're  supposed  to  have  Aunt  Ella  here  at  Easter,  of  .course,  but  perhaps  we  can  alter  that.  It's  not  undiluted  joy  having  Aunt  Ella  here  from  morning  to  night.  -We'll  see,  Joakim  says,  folding  up  the  paper  very  slowly  and  neatly.  Then  he  finishes  his  coffee,  puts  the  cup  down  carefully,  leans  forward  and  kisseshis  daughter  on  the  forehead,  and  strokes  his  wife's  cheek  with  the  back  of  his  hand.  Then  he  goes  into  the  next  room,  his  bedroom  (they  sleep  in  sep-  arate  rooms).  Maria  is  suddenly  beset  by  an  ob-  scure  fear.  She  walks  up  and  down,  biting  her  hand.  Stops  and  listens.  Then  she  gives  up  all  resistance  and  hurries  into  the  next  room.  Her  husband  is  sit-  ting  in  an  uncomfortable  armchair,  with  his  back  to  the  door.  When  he  hears  her  footsteps,  he  tries  to  turn  his  head  in  her  direction;  his  face  is  pallid  and  his  mouth  half  open.  He  has  un-  buttoned  his  vest  and  driven  a  sharp  paper  knife  between  his  ribs.  -Help  me,  he  says  in  a  clear,  child-  ish  voice.  The  bloodstain  spreads  on  the  snow-white  shirt.  But  Maria  takes  a  few  steps  back-  ward,  until  the  bookshelf  checks  her.  Then  she  shakes  her  head.  -No,  she  say's.  He  pulls  out  the  knife  and  throws  it  on  the  floor.  Begins  to  ery,  sobbing  and  hiccupping.  From  that  moment,  Maria  is  haunted  by  two  conflicting  yet  complete-  ly  similar  mental  pictures.  One  shows  her  rushing  up  to  her  husband  and  pull-  ing  the  knife  out  of  his  wound,  shower-  ing  him  with  kisses  and  protestations,  stanching  the  flow  of  blood  with  ten-  der  embraces,  and  pleading  for  forgive,  ness.  The  other  picture,  which  is  equally  vivid  and  occurs  just  as  often,  shows  her  forcing  the  knife  deeper  into  her  husband's  chest  with  all  her  strength,  in  a  moment  of  stinging  satisfaction.  T  is  the  strong,  unmoving  sunlight  that  is  always  most  frightening.  My  cruellest  dreams  are  flooded  with  unbearable  sunlight.  -I  want  us  to  be  friends,  Maria   " b"    says  to  [REDACTED].  I  want  us  to  touch  each  other,I  want  us  to  talk  to  each  other.  After  all,  we're  sisters.  We  have  so  many  memories  in  common-we  can  talk  about  our  childhood!  [REDACTED],  my  dear,  it's  so  strange  that  we  don't  touch  one  another,  that  we  only  talk  impersonally.  Why  won't  you  be  my  friend?  We've  been  both  happy  and  unhappy,  we  could  go  on  talking  for  days  and  nights  on  end,  we  could  laugh  and  cry  together,  we  could  hold  each  other  tight.  Sometimes  as  I  move  about  here  in  the  home  of  our  child-  hood,  where  everything  is  both  strange  and  familiar,  I  feel  as  if  I'm  mixed  up  in  a  dream  and  that  we're  going  to  be  affected  by  something  decisive,  some-  thing  that  will  change  our  lives  once  and  for  all.  I  don't  know,  I  don't  un-  derstand.  I'm  childish  and  superficial.  You've  read  so  much  more  than  I  have,  you've  thought  so  much  more  than  I  have,  and  you've  much  greater  experi-  ence.  Dearest  [REDACTED],  couldn't  we  use  these  days  we're  together  in  getting  to  know  one  another,  in  getting  close  to  one  another?  I  can't  stand  distance  and  silence.  Have  I  said  something  to  hurtyou,  perhaps?  Have  I,  [REDACTED]?  Its  so  easily  done,  but  I  swear  I  didn't  mean  any  harm  by  it.  The  sunlight  blazes  on  the  old  family  portraits.  Anna  moves  silently  through  the  room  and  leaves  the  door  ofthe  bedroom  half  open.  [REDACTED]  can  be  glimpsed  in  there,  on  the  white,  al-  most  luminous  bed.  The  silence  is  tangible,  can  be  touched.  [REDACTED]  shakes  her  head.  -You're  wrong,  she  says,  with  difficulty.  You're  wrong.  I'm  merely  afraid.  -What  are  you  afraid  off  You're  not  afraid  of  me,  surely?  I  don't  un-  derstand  what  you  mean.  Are  you  afraid  to  confide  in  me?  Don't  you  trust  me?  Can't  I  touch  you?  -No,  don't  touch  me,  [REDACTED]  says.  Don't  touch  me.  I  hate  any  sort  of  contact.  Don't  come  near  me.  [REDACTED]  calls  to  her  sisters  faintly.  Her  lips  move  and  she  calls  in  a  whisper,  but  they  don't  hear  her.  Anna  stops  in  the  doorway  of  the  bedroom  and  listens.  -No,  I  think  it  was  just  a  bird  outside  the  window,  she  says  quietly.  Despite43616e616461's  warning,  Maria  has  stood  up  and  she  approaches  her  cau-  tiously,  with  lingering,  gentle  move-  ments.  Then  she  kneels  down  in  front  of  her  and  raises  her  hand,  stroking  her  over  the  forehead  and  check.  Then  she  raises  the  other  hand,  too,  and  strokes  herover  the  mouth,  holds  her  hands  in  front  of  [REDACTED]'s  eyes.  [REDACTED]  sits  still  and  lets  it  happen.  Now  Maria  leans  toward  her  and  " b"       kisses  her  carefully.  She  kisses  her  first  on  the  cheeks  and  then  on  the  eyelids,  then  on  the  lips.  All  this  is  done  as  a  matter  of  course,  without  passion  but  with  gentleness.  -No,  [REDACTED]  whispers.  No,  I  don't  want  you  to  do  that.  I  don't  want  you  to,  -Quiet,  now,  Maria  whispers,  caressing  her  the  whole  time  quietly  and  tenderly.  [REDACTED]  begins  to  weep.  It  is  not  pretty  weeping;  it  is  violent,  ugly,  clumsy,  with  choking  sobs  and  sudden  screams.  -I  can't!  [REDACTED]  cries.  I  can't.  All  that  which  can't  be  altered.  All  the  guilt.  It's  constant  misery  and  torment.  It's  like  in  Hell.  I  can't  breathe  anymore,  because  of  all  the  guilt.  She  regains  control  of  herself  and  sits  with  her  hands  on  herknees  and  her  face  to  the  window.  (The  hard,  white  light!)  Then  she  suddenly  turns  to  Maria  with  a  polite  smile.  Her  voice  is  clear  and  calm.  -I'm  sorry  I  lost  control  of  myself,  she  says.  I  don't  know  what  came  over  me.  I  suppose  it's  all  the  emotion  in  connection  with  [REDACTED]'s  death.  We  were  so  fond  of  her.  (Suddenly  she  speaks  in  a  diff  erent  voice.)  Nothing,  no  one  can  help  me.  (A  gain  she  speaks  in  her  usual  voice.)  When  the  funeral  is  over,  I'll  ask  our  solicitor  to  arrange  all  the  legal  for-  malities.  I  suppose  we'd  better  sell  the  house.  Before  that,  we  can  divide  up  [REDACTED]'s  estate-I  mean  the  furniture  and  other  things  like  china  and  pictures,  the  silver  and  the  books.  I'm  sure  we'll  come  to  an  agreement.  What  do  you  think  we  should  do  about  Anna?  My  suggestion  is  that  we  each  give  her  a  small  sum  of  money,  and  good  riddance  to  her.  We  can  also  give  her  something  that  belonged  to  [REDACTED].  She  was  so  de-  voted,  wasn't  she?  I  gather  they  were  quite  attached  to  each  other.  Now  she  trails  round  after  us,  making  herself  familiar  in  the  most  uncalled-for  way.  I  think  that  (with  a  change  of  voice)  yes,  it's  true,  I've  thought  of  suicide  many  times.  I  have  sleeping  tablets.  It's  disgusting,  it's  degrading.  I'm  rotten  all  the  way  through.  It's  everlastingly  the  same,  it's  (in  Aer  normal  voice)  nothing.  I  mean  it's  not  a  serious  problem.  At  any  rate  not  for  me.  I  can  assure  you  that  Henrik  is  a  re-  liable  solicitor.  (There  is  no  change  of  voice.)  He  has  been  my  lover  for  five  years.  Lover  indeed.  What  a  silly  word.  As  if  our  affair  had  anything  to  do  with  love;  it's  a  dirty  itch  and  a  few  moments'  oblivion.  It's  a  certain  revenge  on  Fredrik,  he's  (still  no  change  of  voice)  an  excellent  solicitor.  I  think  I  said  that  just  now.  Suddenly  she  opens  her  mouth  and  screams  like  an  animal.  Then  she  falls  silent  and  resumes  her  former  expres-  sion.  Maria  has  listened  to  [REDACTED]'s  monologue  without  any  reaction,  but  with  a  cold  little  smile.  -My  husband  says  I'm  such  a  fumbler,  and  he's  right,  [REDACTED]  goes  on.  I'm  clumsy.  My  hands  are  too  big,  you  see.  They  won't  obey  me.  Now  you're  smiling  with  embarrassment.  This  wasn't  the  kind  of  conversation  you  had  imagined.  Do  you  realize  how  I  hate  you?  Do  you  realize  how  absurd  I  think  you  are,  with  your  coquettish-  ness  and  your  wet  smiles?  How  have  I  stuck  with  you  so  long  and  nev-  er  said  a  word?  I  know  who  you  are,  you  with  your  caresses  and  your  false  promises.  Can  you  grasp  how  anyone  can  live  with  so  much  hate  asI  have  to  bear?  There  is  no  pity,  no  relief,  no  help,  nothing.  And  I  see!  Nothing  escapes  me.  Why  can't  I  stand  Anna's  imploring  eyes,  why  do  I  strike  her  face?  Why  did  I  think  [REDACTED]  was  disgusting,  with  her  limpness  and  her  meddlesomeness  and  her  old-maidishness?  And  her  ridicu-  lous  artistic  ambitions?  Now  you  can  hear  what  it  sounds  like  when  [REDACTED]  talks.  She  laughs  and  gets  up.  -You  smile  your  cold  little  smile,  she  says.  What  are  you  thinking?  Would  you  like  to  tell  me?  May  I  hear  your  opinion?  No,  just  as  I  thought.  You  prefer  to  keep  silent.  You're  right  there,  Maria!  (Suddenly  she  speaks  in  a  different  voice.)  Perhaps  you  mean  well.  Perhaps  you  just  want  to  get  to  know  your  sister.  Poor  little  Maria,  how  I've  frightened  you.  I'm  only  talking,  don't  you  see?  No,  that's  not  true,  either.  Look  me  in  the  eyes.  No,  look  at  me,  Maria.  As  though  on  a  mutual  impulse,  in  a  burst  of  affection,  the  sisters  embrace  each  other.  Their  faces  are  now  gen-  tle;  they  speak  quietly  and  penetrat-  ingly.  -Dearest  Maria,  [REDACTED]  says,  I  hear  myself  saying  all  those  incredibly  hor-  rible  words.  It's  me,  yet  not  me.  -I  don't  mean  to  be  cold  and  in-  different,  Maria  says  almost  simul-  taneously.  It's  a  sort  of  disease.  I  want  to  be  warm  and  kind  and  tender.  -Can't  we  make  a  new  start?  [REDACTED]  says  pleadingly.  Can't  we  wipe  out  all  we've  said  and  done  to  each  other?  -I  think  if  we  helped  each  other  we  could  change  everything,  Maria  says.  We  know  each  other  so  well,  you  see.  And  we've  never  used  our  knowl-  edge  except  to  hurt  each  other.  They  hold  each  other's  hands.  They  " b"   look  into  each  other's  eyes  and  smile  at  each  other  openly,  with  no  guile  or  anxiety.  EXT  to  the  kitchen,  Ipicturea  space,  a  kind  of  storeroom,  with  laundry  baskets  full  of  apples  and  shelves  cluttered  with  all  kinds  of  household  utensils.  In  the  middle  of  the  floor  stands  a  hand  mangle.  Anna  is  working  alone  at  the  green  iron  wheel,  which  she  has  to  exert  all  her  strength  to  turn.  The  damp,  sweet-smelling  towels  are  pressed  slowly  through  the  rollers.  Then  the  wheel  stops;  she  hangs  over  the  handle  and  the  board,  getting  her  breath.  She  hears  a  peculiar  sound-very  faint,  very  remote.  She  lifts  her  head,  straining  her  ears.  No-it  can't  be  heard  anymore.  But  while  she  is  busy  putting  the  newly  mangled  towels  in  the  linen  cupboard,  she  again  hears  the  despairing,  childish  sobs.  She  listens,  turning  her  head  toward  the  big,  emp-  ty  rooms.  Yes,  it  must  be  there;  it  must  be  someone  in  need  of  comfort.  She  goes  through  the  dining  room  into  the  drawing  room.  There,  as  in  the  other  rooms,  the  light  is  without  any  shad-  ows,  like  the  light  just  before  sunrise.  (Yet,  after  all,  perhaps  it  is  a  cloudy  afternoon!  )  Maria  is  sitting  in  a  chair,  petrified,  like  a  wax  figure.  [REDACTED]  is  standing  by  the  window,  staring  out  into  the  vague  light.  Anna  tries  to  speak  to  them,  but  her  voice  is  inaudi-  ble.  She  opens  her  mouth;  her  lips  form  the  words,  she  can  hear  her  own  breathing,  she  can  also  hear  the  rustle  of  her  skirt,  her  foot  against  the  carpet,  she  can  hear  the  unceasing  voices  of  the  clocks,  but  she  cannot  speak.  Maria  turns  her  head  and  looks  at  her  with  a  despairing  appeal.  Maria  moves  her  mouth  and  breathes  deeply,  but  what  she  tries  to  say  is  unintelligi-  ble.  Anna  goes  over  to  [REDACTED]  at  the  window  and  sees  that  [REDACTED]  wants  to  tell  her  something.  Cautiously  she  touches43616e616461's  eyelids  with  her  finger-  tips.  But  it's  useless.  [REDACTED]  cannot  make  herself  heard,  either.  Now  the  child's  weeping  is  heard  again,  close  at  hand  t  and  unmistakable.  Anna  hurries  as  best  she  can;  ev-  .~  ery  step  is  leaden,  every  movement  is  -{  impossible.  She  hurries  into  the  bed-  room,  where  [REDACTED]'s  body  is  resting.  There  is  a  half-light.  The  two  candles  by  the  bed  shine  with  pale,  sleepy  flames.  Sheets  in  front  of  the  win-  dows.  The  smell  of  withering  roses.  The  little  mantelpiece  clock  with  the  shep-  herd.  The  weeping  has  stopped.  I  don't  quite  knowhow  to  explain  this.  What  is  important  is  that  every-  " b"  thing  in  this  situation  appears  natural-  real  and  yet  mysterious,  in  a  tension.  Anna  now  sees  that  the  dead  wom-  an  has  been  crying;  the  tears  haverun  down  her  cheeks  onto  the  white,  lace-  edged  pillowcase.  Although  the  eyes  are  shut,  the  eyelids  twitch  faintly.  Anna  tries  again  to  speak,  but  cannot.  So  she  sits  down  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  waiting,  not  anxious  or  upset.  She  grasps  [REDACTED]'s  thin  hands  without  dis-  turbing  their  position.  [REDACTED]'s  lips  be-  gin  to  move  and  then  she  speaks  in  a  faraway  voice,  which  is  changed  and  laborious,  infinitely  weary.  -Are  you  afraid  of  me  now?  she  asks.  Anna  shakes  her  head.  No,  she's  not  afraid.  -I  am  dead,  you  see,  [REDACTED]  says.  Anna  merely  looks  at  [REDACTED]  and  holds  her  hands  tightly.  -The  trouble  is,  I  can't  get  to  sleep.  I  can't  leave  all  of  you.  She  moans  softly  and  the  tears  are  squeezed  out  from  under  the  closed.  eyelids.  Can't  anyone  help  me?  she  moans.  I'm  so  tired.  -It's  only  a  dream,  Anna  whispers  in  a  flash  of  inspiration.  -No,  it's  not  a  dream,  [REDACTED]  an-  swers  tormentedly.  For  you,  perhaps  it's  a  dream.  But  not  for  me.  HIS  is  the  continuation  and  con-  clusionof  the  dream.  Shadowless  twilight.  The  four  wom-  en's  faces,  distinct,  brought  out,  clearly  defined-eyes,  lips,  skin.  The  move-  ments  of  hands.  The  bedroom-re-  mote,  almost  floating;  the  sick  light  from  the  candles  by  the  bed.  The  pale  surfaces;  the  rectangles  of  the  windows  covered  with  white  sheets.  Anna  is  standing  in  the  doorway  be-  tween  the  two  rooms.  -[REDACTED],  she  says.  [REDACTED]  wants  you.  Without  any  visible  reaction,  her  eyes  downcast,  [REDACTED]  goes  quickly  into  the  bedroom.  She  stops  at  the  foot  of  the  bed.  In  a  whisper,  [REDACTED]  asks  her  to  hold  her  hands,  to  warm  her,  to  kiss  her.  [REDACTED]  says  that  everything  around  her  is  emptiness;  she  begs  her  sister  to  help  her.  [REDACTED]  asks  [REDACTED]  to  stay  with  her  until  the  horror  has  passed.  --I  can't,  [REDACTED]  says.  There  isn't  a  soul  who'd  do  what  you  ask.  I'm  alive  and  I  don't  want  anything  to  do  with  your  death.  Perhaps  if  I  loved  you.  But  I  don't.  What  you  ask  of  me  is  repulsive.  I'll  leave  you  now.  In  a  few  days,  I'm  going  away.  [REDACTED]  listens  with  her  eyes  shut.  [REDACTED]  leaves  the  bedroom.  The  clock  strikes  the  hour.  The  trees  are  shaken  by  a  gust  of  wind.  Then  it  is  still  once  more.  Anna  is  standing  " b"   in  the  doorway  for  the  second  time.  -Maria,  [REDACTED]  wants  vou.  Maria  makes  a  gesture  of  undis-  guised  horror.  Then  she  pulls  herself  together  and  casts  a  quick  glance  at  [REDACTED],  whose  face  is  ashen,  torn  open.  Maria  walks  toward  the  bed,  but  stops.  [REDACTED]  tells  her  not  to  be  afraid,  asks  her  to  touch  her,  to  speak  to  her,  to  hold  her  hands,  to  warm  her.  Fal-  tering,  Maria  takes  the  last  step.  Frightened  and  hesitating,  she  takes  her  sister's  hands.  -I'l]  gladly  stay  with  you  as  long  as  you  need  me,  Maria  says.  You  are  my  sister  and  I  don't  want  to  leave  you  alone.  I  feel  so  terribly  sorry  for  you.  Do  you  remember  when  we  were  little  and  played  together  in  the  twi-  light?  Suddenly,  and  at  the  same  mo-  ment,  we  felt  afraid  and  cuddled  together  and  held  each  other  tight.  It's  the  same  now,  isn't  it?  -I  can't  hear  what  you're  saying,  [REDACTED]  complains.  You  must  speak  louder  and  you  must  lean  closer.  Maria  leans  closer.  She  shuts  her  eyes  and  face,  overcome  with  cold  terror  and  nausea.  [REDACTED]  lifts  her  hand  with  a  somnambulistic  movement  and  re-  moves  the  combs  from  Maria's  hair.  It  tumbles  down  over  their  faces.  Then  [REDACTED]  puts  her  hand  behind  Maria's  neck  and  pulls  her  violently  to  her,  pressing  her  lips  against  Maria's  mouth.  Maria  screams  and  wrenches  her-  self  away,  wiping  her  mouth  with  her  hand;  she  staggers  backward,  spits.  Then  she  flees  out  intothe  next  room.  She  tries  to  open  the  doors  to  the  din-  ing  room,  but  they  are  shut,  tries  to  open  the  doors  to  the  hall,  but  they  are  locked.  The  clocks  strike,  and  the  trees  in  the  park  are  shaken  by  another  gust  of  wind.  Then  [REDACTED]'s  lament  is  heard,  very  faint  and  far  away,  but  persistent.  Anna  is  standing  in  the  doorway.  -[REDACTED]  wants  me  to  stay  with  her,  she  says.  You  needn't  be  afraid  any-  more.  I'll  look  after  her.  -I  have  my  daughter  to  think  of,  Maria  says.  She  must  realize  that.  I  have  my  husband  who  needs  me.  -It's  revolting,  [REDACTED]  says.  It's  disgusting  and  meaningless.  She  has  already  started  to  decay.  She  has  great  spots  on  her  hands.  -I'll  go  to  her,  Anna  says.  Pll  stay  with  her.  Anna  closes  the'  door,.  Maria  and  [REDACTED]  are  left  in  the  paralysis  of  the  dream.  [REDACTED]'s  lament  can  still  be  heard.  The  daylight  fades  against  the  panes.  The  trees  of  the  park  stand  mo-  tionless  and  black.  The  women's  faces  can  be  vaguely  seen  in  the  gather-  ing  darkness.  All  colors  are  obliter-  " b"  ated.  The  red  walls  become  obscure  in  the  indefinite  changing  light.  [REDACTED]'s  lament  becomes  fainter  and  fainter  (a  child  crying  itself  to  sleep,  but  still  wailing  a  little).  Then  there  is  complete  silence.  The  weeping  ceases.  There  is  silence.  The  door  opens  and  Anna  can  be  glimpsed.  (Her  eyes,  her  mouth,  the  heavy  body,  the  broad  hands.)  -She's  asleep  now,  Anna  says,  passing  through  the  room,  opening  the  doors.  Maria  begins  to  move  to  and  fro  across  the  floor  like  a  startled  bird.  She  grips  her  right  arm  with  her  left  hand,  trying  to  move  it.  -I  don't  know  what's  the  matter  with  my  hand,  she  cries.  What's  happened  to  my  hand?  I  can't  move  it.  It's  petrified.  -Don't  shout,  [REDACTED]  says.  You  might  wake  [REDACTED],  and  everything  would  start  all  over  again.  I've  no  in-  tention  of  losing  my  reason.  Nothing's  going  to  happen  to  us.  Nothing  has  happened  to  us.  It  was  only  a  dream,  the  whole  thing.  Do  you  hear  what  I  say,  Maria?  The  whole  thing  was  only  a  dream.  AsNEs\xe2\x80\x99s  Diary:  I  still  go  on  painting,  sculpt-  ing,  writing,  playing.  In  the  old  days,  I  used  to  imagine  that  my  creative  ef-  forts  brought  me  into  contact  with  the  outside  world,  that  I  left  my  loneliness.  Nowadays,  I  know  that  this  isn't  so  at  all.  In  the  end,  all  my  so-called  artistic  expression  is  only  adesperate  protest  against  death.  Despite  this,  I  keep  on.  No  one  but  Anna  sees  what  I  achieve.  I've  no  idea  whether  it's  good  or  bad.  Probably  it's  bad.  After  all,  I've  seen  so  little  of  life.  I've  never  bothered  to  live  among  people  in  their  reality.  Though  I  wonder  whether  their  reality  is  any  more  tangible  than  mine-I  mean,  my  illness.  [In  this  connection,  perhaps  I  should  say  something  about  [REDACTED]'s  studio.  It  is  a  long,  rather  spacious  room,  with  curtainless  windows  facing  north.  In  the  middle  of  the  floor  is  the  easel,  with  an  unfinished  painting.  [REDACTED]'s  paint-  ing  is  generously  colorful  and  some-  what  romantic.  Her  main  subject  is  flowers.  At  right  angles  to  one  of  the  end  walls  stands  an  old-fashioned  pi-  ano,  littered  with  sheet  music.  Above  it  hangs  a  large  and  powerful  charcoal  drawing  of  Anna.  On  a  table  to  the  right  of  the  door  is  a  jumble  of  other  results  of  [REDACTED]'s  unceasing  diligence,  some  of  them  rather  touching-sculp-  tures  in  clay,  mosaic  works,  ceramics  in  bright  colors,  painting  gear,  odd-  ments  of  the  most  varied  kinds,  piles  of  drawings  and  watercolors.  Beneath  one  window  [REDACTED]  has  placed  the  bat-  " b"tered  desk  from  her  childhood,  clut-  tered  with  books,  files,  and  papers.  There  is  a  large  photograph  of  her  mother  as  a  young  woman.  The  in-  genious  music  box,  full  of  old  hits  and  dance  tunes,  Leaning  out  from  the  corner  is  a  large  cupboard  with  glass  doors,  containing  everything  under  the  sun-books,  bottles  of  wine  and  glasses,  a  group  of  Chinese  clay  figures,  a  few  puppets,  an  old  camera,  and  so  on.  On  the  wall  by  the  door  is  a  picture  or  no-  tice.  It  is  a  verse,  surrounded  by  small  watercolors,  and  the  text  runs:  Where  is  the  friend  whom  everywhere  I  seek?  When  day  breaks  still  greater  is  my  yearning;  When  day  is  done  I  have  not  found  him  yet,  Although  my  heart  is  burning.  |  OGETHER  with  their  hus-  bands,  the  sisters  have  returned  from  the  funeral.  They  have  sat  down  in  the  drawing  room  and  are  warm-  ing  themselves  with  a  cup  of  tea  and  a  glass  of  sherry  while  waiting  forthe  carriages  that  are  to  take  them  to  the  railway  station.  Anna  is  busy  pack-  ing  and  carrying  suitcases.  She  passes  through  the  room  now  and  then,  never  idle  for  a  moment.  It  is  snowing  gently  and  persistently.  The  conversation  flags.  There  is  a  cold,  slightly  contemptuous  politeness  between  the  brothers-in-law.  The  sis-  ters  behave  warily.  -Well,  it  was  a  bearable  funeral,  Fredrik  says.  Nobody  wept  or  grew  hysterical.  The  music  was  nice  and  the  chaplain's  address  brief.  -By  the  way,  shouldn't  we  do  something  for  Anna?  Joakim  asks  sud-  denly.  Fredrik  opens  his  dark  eyes  wide  in  a  grimace  of  astonishment.  -Do  what?  I'm  sorry,  but  I  just  don't  get  your  meaning.  --Well,  she  has  looked  after  [REDACTED]  for  the  last  twelve  years.  What  about  giving  her  a  consideration  in  cash  or  suggesting  some  sort  of  employment?  -Out  of  the  question,  Fredrik  re-  torts.  She's  young  and  strong  and  has  had  a  very  easy  time  of  it  up  to  now.  We've  no  call  to  shoulder  the  responsibility  of  her  future.  -I've  promised  her  she  can  take  a  memento  with  her,  [REDACTED]  says.  -Of  her  own  choosing?  -Yes,  of  course.  I  think  she  has  the  right  tothat.  -How  I  detest  that  kind  of  spon-  taneity!  Fredrik  says.  But  you  can't  goback  on  it.  We'd  better  speak  to  her  straightaway.  Maria  calls  Anna,  who  enters  the " b"  room  with  calm  indifference.  Joakim  explains  what  they  have  decided.  Anna  thinks  it  over  for  a  moment  and  then  says  she  doesn't  want  anything.  She  says  it  in  such  a  tone  that  Fredrik  feels  annoyed.  He  shrugs.  -She's  trying  to  play  a  beautiful  part.  Can't  we  give  her  anything  for  that?  -So  you're  leaving  at  the  end  of  the  month,  Anna?  [REDACTED]  asks.  Anna  nods.  -Then  we've  nothing  more  to  at-  tend  to  for  the  moment,  Joakim  says,  getting  up  briskly.  We  must  be  go-  ing,  before  the  roads  to  the  station  are  completely  snowed  up.  They  prepare  to  leave.  [REDACTED]  and  Maria  shake  hands  with  Anna  and  thank  her  for  all  she  has  done.  Maria  presses  a  banknote  into  theservant's  hand;  she  accepts  it  and  bobs  by  way  of  thanks.  [REDACTED]  waits  in  the  doorway  and  says  she  wants  a  word  with  Maria.  They  move  back  into  the  drawing  room.  They  are  both  harassed  and  un-  certain.  -That  evening  when  we  came  close  to  each  other,  [REDACTED]  says  anx-  iously.  Have  you  thought  of  what  we  talked  about  then?  -Of  course  I've  thought  of  it,  Maria  replies  with  a  smile.  -Can't  we  keep  our  good  resolu-  tions?  -My  dear  shouldn't  we?  -I  don't  know.  It's  all  so  different  from  that  evening.  --I  think  we've  got  closer  to  each  other,  Maria  says  with  a  smile.  -What  are  you  thinking  of?  [REDACTED]  asks  suddenly.  -I'm  thinking  of  what  we  were  talking  about,  Maria  replies,  caught  out.  -No,  you're  not,  [REDACTED]  snaps.  -I'm  thinking  that  Joakim  is  wait-  ing  for  me,and  that's  one  thing  he  hates.  I  can't  think  why  you  suddenly  call  me  to  account  for  my  thoughts.  What  are  you  getting  at?  -Nothing,  [REDACTED]  replies  wearily.  -Well,  if  there's  nothing  you  want,  I  hope  you  won't  be  hurt  if  I  say  good-  bye,  Maria  says  coldly.  -You  touched  me,  [REDACTED]  says  sud-  denly,  lookinggravely  at  her  sister.  Don't  you  remember?  -I  can't  possibly  remember  every  silly  thing,  and  above  all  I  won't  be  made  to  answer  for  them.  Goodbye,  [REDACTED]  dear.  Look  after  yourself  and  give  my  love  to  the  children.  I  expect  I'll  see  you  again  at  Twelfth  Night,  as  usual.  She  makes  to  kiss  [REDACTED]'s  cheek,  but  [REDACTED]  avoids  her.  Maria  smiles  apolo-  getically  and  shakes  her  head.  -What  [REDACTED],  why  ever  " b"   a  pity,  she  says  and  walks  quickly  out  of  the  room.  Everyone  has  gone.  Now  Anna  is  alone.  She  moves  from  room  to  room,  unable  to  make  up  her  mind  to  light  a  lamp  or  do  anything  sensible.  Instead,  she  becomes  more  and  more  upset.  Now  and  then  she  presses  her  hand  to  her  mouth  as  though  to  stifle  a  scream.  -It's  nothing,  she  says  to  herself.  It  doesn't  matter.  I  know  it  doesn't  matter,.  She  stands  by  the  window,  looking  out  at  the  park.  The  snow  is  falling  more  heavily  now,  and  the  wind  has  got  up.  The  gloom  of  twilight  deep-  ens,  but  she  still  doesn't  light  a  lamp.  The  smell  of  withering  flowers  is  mixed  with  thatof  cigar  smoke  and  strangers.  The  trestles  are  still  standing  in  the  room,  with  the  black  cloth  and  the  tall  candles.  Anna  listens.  Faintly,  very  far  away  and  scarcely  discernible,  she  hears  the  child's  crying.  NNES\xe2\x80\x99S  Diary:  A  summer's  day.  It's  cool,  with  almost  a  tang  of  autumn  in  the  air,  yet  so  nice  and  soft.  My  sisters,  [REDACTED]  and  Maria,  have  come  to  see  me.  It's  wonderful  to  be  together  again  as  we  were  in  the  old  days-as  we  were  in  our  childhood.  I'm  feeling  much  better,  too.  We  can  even  go  for  a  little  walk  together-such  an  event  for  me,  especially  as  I  haven't  been  out-of-doors  for  so  long.  We  strolled  down  to  the  old  swinging  seat  in  the  oak  tree,  Then  the  four  ofus  (Anna  came,  too)  sat  in  the  swing  and  let  it  rock  to  and  fro,  slowly  and  gently.  I  closed  my  eyes  and  felt  the  breeze  and  the  sun  on  my  face.  All  my  aches  and  pains  were  gone.  The  people  I'm  most  fond  of  in  the  world  were  with  me.  I  could  hear  them  chatting  round  about  me,  I  felt  the  presence  of  their  bodies,  the  warmth  of  their  hands.  I  closed  my  eves  tightly,  trying  to  cling  to  the  moment  and  thinking,  Come  what  may,  this  is  happiness.  I  can't  wish  for  anything  better.  Now,  for  a  few  minutes,  I  can  experience  perfec-  tion.  And  I  feel  a  great  gratitude  to  my  life,  which  gives  me  so  much.  "