"THE  BANGOR  MAN  N  automaton  is  a  mechanical  de-  vice  that  enacts  human  or  ani-  mal  functions-for  example,  a  windup  toy  horse  that  gallops  across  the  carpet  or  a  complex  robot  who  an-  swers  many  of  our  questions.  The  an-  cient  Greeks  are  thought  to  have  built  the  first  automaton,  a  little  pigeon  that  fluttered  happily  across  the  sunny  plazas  of  Athens  as  early  as  400  B.C.  In  the  thirteenth  century,  asmall  talking  head  was  built  by  a  German  scholar,  in  Ulm;  its  speech,  however,  was  raspy  and  unpleasant  to  the  ear.  By  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century,  the  French  had  constructed  a  duck.  It  was  quite  a  marvel,  the  mechani-  cal  duck  of  1741.  It  was  kept  at  an  estate  fourteen  miles  from  [REDACTED],  where  it  swam  in  a  pond,  flapped  its  wings,  preened  its  feathers,  ate,  and,  by  means  of  a  chemical  solution  in  its  stomach,  digested  its  food.  Many  aristocrats  of  that  time  liked  to  spend  Sundays  watch-  ing  the  duck  swim  and  preen  and  re-  flecting  on  philosophical  matters  that  aren'tof  much  interest  anymore,  such  as:  Is  the  duck  real-i.e.,  alive?Is  it  an  ideal  duck-i.e.,  embodying  the  idea  of  duckness-but,  alas,  dead?  Is  the  cause  of  its  energy  something  that  we  can-  not  see  at  this  distance?  The  first  American  automaton  was  built  by  Benjamin  Franklin,  the  great  scientist-statesman.  It  was  called  the  Philadelphia  Man,  and  it  could  eat  a  loaf  of  bread,  recite  proverbs,  add  simple  sums,  and  run  the  low  hurdles.  Of  all  his  many  other  accomplishments,  including  founding  the  Post  Of-  fice,  bottling  electricity,  and  play-  ing  the  glass  harmonica,  Mr.  Franklin  loved  none  so  much  as  the  Philadelphia  Man.  He  even  refused  to  allow  the  machine  to  be  used  for  commercial  purposes,  and  as  a  result  it  enjoyed  consid-  erable  privacy  for  an  automaton  that  was  known  across  the  land.  It  was  much  admired,  for  its  reti-  cence  as  well  as  its  talents,  until  1875,  when  the  mechanism  was  broken  in  a  fall  down  stairs  at  the  Hotel  Seymour,  where  it  hadhad  a  room  for  many  years  andwas  looked  after  by  the  bellboys,  who  were  paid  in  accordance  with  a  generous  provision  in  the  Frank-  lin  will,  HE  celebrated  Bangor  Man  was  created  expressly  for  the  [REDACTED]  Exposition  of  1900  by  the  Bangor  Machine  Works  and  was  soon  called  &quot;The  Automaton  of  the  Century.&quot;  It  performed  none  of  the  feats  credited  to  the  Philadelphia  Man,  because,  as  its  promoters  said,  there  was  &quot;no  call&quot;  for  such  things,  but  its  single  attainment  was  judged  to  be  more  amazing  than  anything  Franklin  had  dreamed  of.  The  Bangor  Man  pos-  sessed  the  abilityto  beat  all  comers  at  checkers,  and  with  seeming  ease.  This  creature  was  built  of  iron  plates,  stood  about  five  feet  tall,  looked  like  a  steam-  er  trunk  with  mailing-tube  arms,  and  was  carried  from  town  to  town  on  a  strong  cart  drawn  by  four  horses.  A  checkerboard  foldedout  from  its  chest.  Indicating  which  checkers  it  wished  to  move  by  means  of  a  system  of  simple  hand  gestures,  the  Bangor  Man  defeated  just  about  every  smart  checkers  player  from  [REDACTED]  to  Con-  necticut.  It  was  so  celebrated  and  so  wonderfulan  invention  that  a  ter-  rific  controversy  arose  when  several  men,  looking  to  inspect  its  parts,  opened  a  hatch  and  found  inside  an  eight-year-old  girl  named  Priscilla  Bannister,  who  was  operating  the  arms  by  means  of  small  handles.  Was  the  Bangor  Man  therefore  to  be  considered  a  hoax!  After  all  was  said  (and  written),  the  prevailing  opinion  seemed  to  be  that  an  eight-year-old  Bangor  girl  who  could  beat  grown  men  at  checkers  was  suf-  ficiently  amazing  to  be  considered  a  genuine  curiosity  in  her  own  right.  It  was  also  agreed  that  similar  automata  might  be  built  and  exhibited  at  fairs  and  expositions,  as  long  as  the  child  in-  39  side  was  not  mistreated  in  any  way.  As  a  result,  small  and  agile  children  became  much  in  demand,  and  a  new  line  of  Bangor  Men,  operated  by  quick-  witted  Bangor  children  trained  for  this  employment,  went  out  from  [REDACTED]  to  play  checkers  against  all  comers  and  also  to  vend  soft  drinks  and  sandwiches.  To  this  day,  there  are  many  mechanical  animals  on  tour  that  contain  children  to  operate  them.  These  include  dancing  sheep  and  talking  pigs,  horses  that  recite  poetry  and  deliver  political  orations,  swans  that  swim  as  fast  as  fish,  fish  that  play  the  flute,  fish  that  discuss  great  issues,  a  large  bear  (operated  by  three  boys)  that  sings  treble  duets  of  popular  songs,  and  the  Canine  Fliers,  the  world's  first  all-dog  baseball  team.  Naturally,  only  the  brightest  and  most  capable  children  are  sought  after  for  operator's  work.  A  few  yearsago,  thirty-four  of  the  &quot;automatonists&quot;  were  given  an  examination  by  the  Bangor  Superintendent  of  Schools  after  some  well-meaning  citizens  complained  that  these  children  were  missing  out  on  much  of  their  education  and  were  also  forced  to  work  in  hot  quarters.  The  results  indicated  that  while  such  chil-  dren  are  often  lonely  and  do  miss  their  friends,  they  are  much  smarter  than  the  average.  In  addition,  the  examina-  tion  showed  that  although  automaton-  ists  did  less  well  than  their  contempo-  raries  in  the  rational  family  of  skills,  such  as  arithmetic  and  language,  they  had  made  excellent  progress  in  emotional  skills,  such  as  kindness,  loyalty,  and  en-  thusiasm,  "