 SLEEP  TIGHT,  YOUR  HONOR  ARDON  my  buttonholing  a  stranger  in  this  abrupt  fashion,  stranger,  but  would  you  happen  to  have  an  inkling  you  could  spare?  Not  much  of  an  inkling-just  enough  to  straighten  me  out  on  something  that's  been  bedevilling  me  lately.  For  instance-under  what  circumstances  is  it  permissible  for  an  English  magis-  trate  to  play  with  a  piece  of  string?  Or  when  is  a  litigant  in  [REDACTED]  justi-  fied  in  pitching  a  book  at  him?  Or,  alternatively,  can  furniture  in  the  Unit-  ed  Kingdom  ever  be  sold  as  car-  rots?  ...  Yes,  I  quite  realize  how  bi-  zarre  these  speculations  must  seem  to  you,  but  then  it's  unlikely  you've  been  reading  the  law  reports  in  the  [REDACTED]  Times,  and  even  if  you  have  you're  more  confused  than  I  am.  The  fact  is  that  anyone  who  drowses  through  those  reports-and  it  takes  a  heap  of  pinch-  ing  to  keep  oneself  awake-is  likely  to  wind  up  enmeshed  in  fantasy.  The  fur-  ther  you  get  the  more  they  resemble  &quot;Alice  in  Wonderland&quot;  crossed  with  a  D'Oyly  Carte  operetta.  Could  it  be  that,  despite  all  evidence  to  the  con-  trary,  Lewis  Carroll  and  W.  S.  Gil-  bert  are  alive  and  well?  My  earliest  intimation  that  English  jurisprudence  was  a  tangled  skein  was  an  account,  in  the  Times,  ofa  sym-  posium  of  lawgivers  that  read  thus:  A  High  Court  judge  advised  magis-  trates  to  becareful  what  they  ate  in  the  luncheon  adjournment  to  avoid  looking  sleepy  in  the  afternoon.  Mr.  Justice  Law-  ton  told  300  magistrates  at  the  start  of  their  training  conference  at  Notting-  ham  University:  &quot;Nothing  can  tarnish  the  image  of  justice  quicker  than  the  ap-  pearance  of  somnolence.  Those  of  us  who  find,  or  think,  they  can  concentrate  better  with  their  eyes  shut,  should  seek  other  ways  of  bringing  their  minds  to  bear  on  the  case.  Playing  with  a  piece  of  string  or  sucking  the  mint  with  the  hole  is  better  than  slumping  in  a  chair  with  eyes  closed....  It  may  be  the  gin  and  tonic,  or  the  meat  and  two  veg  or  the  prunes  and  custard.  Whatever  it  is,  cut  it  out  if  it  leaves  the  public  in  court  to  think  you  are  sleepy.&quot;  Maybe  it  was  this  kind  of  judicial  torpor,  engendered  by  a  surfeit  of  bangers  and  mash  and  prune  whip,  that  aroused  a  lady  to  violent  behavior  in  an  ensuing  legal  action:  Miss  Vera  Beth  Stone,  aged  37,  heard  the  Court-Lord  Denning  and  Lords  Justices  Harman  and  Diplock-dismiss  her  ex-parte  application  for  leave  to  ap-  peal  against  a  decision  on  a  review  of  taxation.  Then  shepicked  up  two  books  and  threw  them  towards  Lord  Denning,  saying  that  it  was  not  a  personal  matter  but  that  she  hoped  by  this  means  to  bring  her  complaint  before  the  Court.  The  books-copies  of  Butterworth's  Workmen's  Compensation  Cases-taken  byher  from  the  Court  library,  passed  between  Lord  Denning  and  Lord  Jus-  tice  Diplock,  Miss  Stone  saying  that  it  did  not  have  to  be  tomatoes.  She  was  restrained  as  she  picked  up  a  third  book,  remarking  that  she  was  running  out  of  ammunition....  As  Miss  Stone  left  the  Court  with  the  tipstaff,  she  said  to  Lord  Denning:  &quot;May  I  congratulate  your  Lordship  on  your  coolness  under  fire?&quot;  Lord  Denning's  aplomb,  to  be  sure,  could  have  had  a  simpler  explanation;  perhaps  he  was  so  rapt  in  playing  with  a  piece  of  string  or  sucking  the  mint  with  the  hole  that  he  was  unaware  of  the  books  flying  past.  It  was  ina  third  Times  story,  however,  that  I  became  convinced  I  had  been  projected  bodily  into  Andrew  Lang's  books  of  fairy  tales.  The  case,  headlined  &quot;Furniture  Cannot  Be  Sold  as  Carrots,&quot;  was  rather  intri-  cate,  but  the  salient  point  was  that  some  furniture  dealers  had  circumvented  a  statute  forbidding  their  goods  to  be  sold  on  Sundays.  Inasmuch  as  British  law  allows  the  sale  of  vegetables  on  the  Sabbath,  the  defendants  opened  a  shop  where  they  sold  carrots,  it  being  tacitly  understood  that  the  customer  was  receiving  an  equivalent  amount  of  furniture.  &quot;On  one  occasion,&quot;  the  charge  against  them  stated,  &quot;they  sold  a  carrot  for  \xc2\xa3520  and  on  other  occasions  for  \xc2\xa320  with  free  gifts  of  furniture.  ...  When  a  Sunday  customer  went  to  the  office,  he  was  asked  if  he  agreed  to  en-  ter  into  a  contract  to  buy  only  a  carrot  to  the  value  of  the  free  gift  selected,  and  he  was  handed  a  carrot.&quot;  By  a  dizzying  coincidence,  I  myself  was  embroiled  in  an  affair  so  similar  to  the  foregoing  that  the  ice  in  my  veins  turned  to  blood  when  I  read  it.  Casting  about  for  a  furnished  flat  in  [REDACTED]  not  long  ago,  I  was  shown  one  ideally  suited  to  my  needs.  It  was  cozy,  quiet,  and  altogether  tip-top  but  for  one  slight  detail;  it  was  devoid  of  furniture  other  than  an  armchair,  a  Georgian  shaving  stand,  and  a  bed.  Miss  Crackthorpe,  the  rental  agent  who  accompanied  me,  pooh-poohed  my  expostulations.  &quot;Not  to  worry,&quot;  she  said  airily.  &quot;You  can  chink  in  whatever  you  lack-bureaus,  couches,  tables-at  Thimblerigg  &amp;  Bilk  in  Gudgeon  Lane     this  very  weekend.  It's  a  wildly  popu-  lar  place,  only  open  on  Sundays,  so  be  sure  to  get  there  early.  Here's  the  address.&quot;  At  cight-thirty  on  Sunday  morning,  accordingly,  I  raced  to  the  shop  with  a  list  of  my  requirements,  and  straight-  away  ran  into  a  predicament.  Instead  of  the  showroom  I  expected,  the  prem-  ises  were  a  mere  hole  in  the  wall-a  greengrocer's  establishment  displaying  a  rather  dispirited  stock  of  vegetables  and  fruit.  As  I  hesitated  on  the  thresh-  old,  a  sharp-featured  character  in  sleeve  garters,  with  a  bowler  smartly  cocked  over  one  ear,  approached  from  the  rear.  &quot;Greetings,  mate.  I'm  Thimble-  rigg,&quot;  he  saluted  me.  &quot;Up  bright  and  early  for  the  bargains,  eh?  Well,  we've  got  'em.  How  about  anice  overstuffed  suite  in  genuine  rat  hide,  with  a  bar  to  match?  Or  a  Chinese  sideboard  of  crushed  mahogany  that  converts  into  a  vanity?  I  can  see  from  your  clothes  you're  a  trendy  type.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  was  looking  for  a  few  un-  usual  pieces,&quot;  I  admitted,  &quot;but  I  must  have  strayed  into  the  wrong-&quot;  &quot;Ah,  yes,&quot;  he  said  smoothly,  &quot;You  didn't  expect  a  greengrocer's  shop-  right?  Think  nothing  of  it.  We've  got  exactly  what  you're  after,  but  we  mer-  chandise  it  in  a  totally  novel  way.  Take  this  cauliflower,  for  example,&quot;  he  said,  selecting  one  from  a  bin.  &quot;That'll  come  to  sixty-eight  pounds  and  thirty  pence.  What  you're  really  buying,  though,  is  a  kneehole  desk,  four  kitchen  chairs,  a  floor  lamp,  a  hat  rack,  and  an  ironing  board  you  can  use  as  a  stepladder.  You  get  the  idea?&quot;  Plausible  as  the  fellow  seemed,  I  for-  tunately  had  my  wits  about  me,  and,  sensing  that  he  was  trying  to  pull  the  wool  over  my  eyes,  retorted  that  I  had  never  heard  anything  so  prepos-  terous.  To  my  surprise,  he  agreed  wholeheartedly.  The  principle  of  Sun-  day  substitute  shopping  was  such  an  in-  novation,  he  acknowledged,  that  it  had  swept  [REDACTED]  like  wildfire,  yet  it  was  backed  by  an  ironclad  warranty,  and  thousands  of  satisfied  customers  bore  witness  to  his  claim.  &quot;Here's  the  way  it  works,&quot;  he  went  on,  producing  a  handsomely  illustrated  catalogue.  &quot;You  simply  pick  out  what-  ever  strikes  your  fancy,  scratch  your  name  on  this  agreement,  and  we  de-  liver  the  furniture  to  your  door  in  forty-eight  hours.  Now,  which  type  of  veg  would  you  prefer-cucumbers,  artichokes,  one  of  these  big  luscious  eggplants?&quot;  Well,  it  was  all  I  could  do  to  re-  press  a  giggle.  Anyone  chuckleheaded  enough  to  fall  for  such  a  yarn  must  be  naive  indeed-and  yet  maybe  it  wasn't     " b"   so  fanciful  at  that.  Miss  Crackthorpe  had  recommended  the  place,  the  items  in  the  catalogue  seemed  trustworthy-  possibly  I  was  suffering  from  an  ex-  cess  of  caution.  I  stood  irresolute  for  a  moment,  and  then,  gambling  on  my  instinct,  decided  that  I  had  misjudged  Thimblerigg,  mistaken  his  Cockney  shrewdness  for  charlatanism.  Selecting  a  divan,  some  end  tables,  a  couple  of  mirrors,  and  aclub  chair  from  the  catalogue,  I  signed  a  contract,  handed  over  my  check  for  three  hundred  pounds,  and,  in  turn,  was  handed  two  cabbages,  a  bunch  of  carrots,  and  a     bagful  of  peanuts  and  spring  onions.  As  he  escorted  me  to  the  door,  Thim-  blerigg  besought  me  to  pester  him  if  the  furniture  did  not  arrive  as  guaranteed.  The  watchword  of  the  firm,  he  de-  clared,  was  integrity,  uncompromising  and  foursquare;  without  those  com-  ponents,  any  business  was  a  mockery  and  a  sham.  And  when  he  reached  into  the  cab  to  shake  hands  with  me  the  candor  that  shone  in  the  man's  eyes  dissipated  any  lingering  doubts.  If  ever  I  saw  bluff  English  honesty,  it  was  in  that  chap's  visage.  Nine  days  elapsed  before  it  finally  25  \xe2\x80\x9c\xef\xac\x82  PATRONIZE]  |  f  (les  KNOTZ  f  \\  CAkousu  $%  w;  Wie  a  SCs  percolated  through  to  me  that  I  had  been  keelhauled,  gaffed  to  a  fare-thee-  well,  and  it  was  confirmed  by  an  ex-  pert--Mr.  Thaddeus  Shadbolt,  the  bulky,  white-haired  solicitor  to  whose  chambers  I  fled  in  panic  when  the  realization  jelled.  Shadbolt  reacted  with  the  typical  cynicism  of  his  profes-  sion  as  I  poured  out  my  recital  of  the  facile  excuses  given  me  by  Thimblerigg  &amp;  Bilk  for  their  failure  to  deliver  my  purchases.  &quot;Quite,  quite,&quot;  he  said,  drumming  impatiently  on  his  desk  top.  &quot;They  told  you  they  were  installing  a  new  com-  " b"  puter  system,  that  their  warehouse  had  burned  down,  and  that  they  were  bankrupt.  The  procedure  is  altogether  ritual,  classic-and  so  is  ours.  We'll  lay  an  action  for  fraud  against  the  bleed-  ers.  I  needn't  tell  you,  of  course,  that  the  courts  are  clogged  with  matters  like  these,  and  normally  it'd  be  months  be-  fore  the  case  is  heard.  However,  I  may  be  able  to  winkle  it  through  with  a  bit  of  influence.  Just  leave  it  with  me.&quot;  Whose  ear  he  whispered  into  I  nev-  er  learned,  but  on  an  unseasonably  warm  April  afternoon  three  weeks  lat-  er,  the  two  of  us  sat  at  a  table  in  court  before  a  lay  magistrate  named  Mr.  Cyril  Trouncer,  listening  to  Thimble-  rigg's  evidence  in  the  witness-box.  Never,  he  affirmed  to  his  counsel,  had  there  been  any  undertaking  on  his  part  to  supply  me  with  furniture;  his  firm  was  a  long-established  greengrocer's  li-  censed  to  sell  produce  on  Sundays,  and  to  assert  that  it  dealt  in  any  other  mer-  chandise  was  nonsensical.  Shadbolt  sprang  to  his  feet.  &quot;This  is  a  monstrous  perversion  of  the  truth,  Your  Honor!&quot;  he  protested.  &quot;Does  the  witness  seriously  ask  us  to  believe  that  my  client  paid  three  hundred  pounds  for  a  few  paltry  vegetables?  What  kind  of  a  simpleton  do  you  think  he  is?&quot;  The  magistrate,  who  had  been  lean-  ing  back  with  his  eyes  closed,  came  to  with  a  start.  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  he  demanded.  &quot;I  didn't  catch  that.  I  had  a  fairly  heavy  lunch-two  pints  of  bit-  ter,  silverside  and  [REDACTED]  sprouts,  and  gooseberry  fool,  andI'm  a  trifle  sleepy.&quot;  He  swung  around  to  his  clerk.  &quot;Where's  that  length  of  string  I  usual-  ly  play  with?  ...  Good.  Now,  Shad-  bolt,  let's  have  that  objection  again.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  never  mind,&quot;  Shadbolt  fumed.  &quot;I  withdraw  what  I  said.&quot;  He  re-  sumed  his  seat,  snatched  up  a  pencil,  and  scribbled  distractedly  on  a  pad.  &quot;Damned  old  fogy,&quot;  he  muttered.  &quot;'This  is  what  comes  of  rushing  a  case  through  the  docket.  If  I  can't  get  his  attention,  we'll  be  in  a  hell  of  a  fix.&quot;  We  certainly  would  be,  I  surmised  as  Thimblerigg  again  began  droning  his  bland  denials.  I  looked  around  des-  perately  for  some  way  of  vivifying  the  magistrate,  and  suddenly,  in  a  flash  of  inspiration,  it  came  to  me-the  thick  law  volume  I  saw  peeping  out  of  Shad-  bolt's  briefcase,  I  plucked  it  out,  stood  up,  and,  summoning  all  my  strength,  flung  it  at  Mr.  Trouncer's  head.  It  missed  him  by  a  good  seven  inches  but  struck  a  picture  immediately  behind,  shattering  the  glass  into  a  thousand  fragments.  There  was  a  momentary  hush,  and  then  all  was  confusion.  The  clerk  leaped  forward  to  assist  Trouncer  to  his  feet,  a  constable  pinioned  my  arms,  and  the  half-dozen  spectators  in  the  court  burst  into  excited  babble.  Shadbolt  was  aghast.  &quot;Great  Scott,  man,  have  you  gone  bonkers?&quot;  he  snarled  at  me.  &quot;Assault,  ing  a  Crown  magistrate-you'll  get  three  years  in  quod  for  this!  Please,  Your  Honor,  give  me  leave  to  explain.  My  client's  an  American;  he's  unfa-  miliar  with  our  judicial  process-&quot;  Mr.  Trouncer  readjusted  his  tie,  cleared  his  throat,  and  held  up  his  hand  for  silence.  &quot;The  Court  is  not  interested  in  your  explanations,  my  dear  Mr.  Shadbolt,&quot;  he  said  with  icy  calm.  &quot;I'm  quite  capable  of  drawing  my  own  conclusions,  and  I  wish  to  say  that  in  my  seventeen  years  on  the  bench  no  litigant  has  ever  shown  such  initiative,  has  behaved  with  such  total  disregard  for  legal  flummery  and  red  tape,  or  given  so  convincing  a  demon-  stration  of  his  faith  in  English  justice.  Bring  forward  the  plaintiff,  constable,  so  that  I  may  commend  him.&quot;  In  the  electric  moment  that  fol-  lowed  his  words,  I  managed  to  re-  trieve  my  voice.  &quot;I-I  apologize  for  hurling  that  book  at  you,  [REDACTED];  I  stammered.  &quot;My  motives  were  of  the  best-&quot;  &quot;Of  course  they  were,&quot;  said  Trouncer  with  a  kindly  smile.  &quot;You  saw  before  you  an  old  foof,  sodden  with  alcohol  and  overindulgence  at  table,  and  with  characteristic  Yankee  ingenuity  you  chose  the  only  means  at  your  command  to  restore  his  concen-  tration.  Startling  it  undeniably  was,  but  it  achieved  its  purpose;  and  now  that  you  have  cleared  my  head,  I  can  pro-  ceed  to  render  a  verdict  proper  to  the  evidence.  I  direct  Thimblerigg  &amp;  Bilk  to  repay  your  three  hundred  pounds  at  once  and  to  sustain  all  costs  in  this  ac-  tion  without  benefit  of  appeal.  And,&quot;  he  concluded  with  a  twinkle,  &quot;if  you  and  your  counsel  care  to  join  me  in  my  chambers,  I  can  promise  you  a  glass  of  the  crustiest  port  either  of  you  has  tasted  in  many  a  moon.&quot;  Well,  there  it  is,  one  man's  experi-  ence  with  English  law  stripped  down  to  its  essentials,  and  that,  parenthet-  ically,  still  holds  true  of  my  furniture-  a  bed,  an  armchair,  and  a  Georgian  shaving  stand.  One  of  these  days,  if  I  can  catch  up  with  her,  I  must  present  Miss  Crackthorpe  with  some  sort  of  bonne  bouche,  like  a  nice  beefsteak  and  a  bagful  of  fresh  vegetables,  for  in-  volving  me  with  those  muzzlers  in  Gudgeon  Lane.  She  can  always  throw  away  the  veg,  but  the  beefsteak  should  be  an  absolute  godsend  for  her  black  eye. "