  EDV  ARDS,  AMELIA  MELIA  Epwarps  was  washing  the  A  dishes  when  she  noticed  that  a  dish  that  she  had  already  washed  had  a  tiny  piece  of  spinach  stuck  to  the  back  of  it.  I  am  not  washing  these  dishes  well,  she  thought.  I  am  not  washing  these  dishes  as  well  as  I  used  to  wash  them.  Mrs.  Edwards  stopped  washing  the  dishes,  even  though  half  of  them  re-  mained  unwashed  in  the  sink.  She  dried  her  arms  on  a  paper  towel  and  went  into  the  bedroom.  She  sat  down  on  the  bed.  Then  she  stood  up  again  and  looked  at  the  bed.  The  bedspread  had  been  placed  on  the  bed  in  a  somewhat  sloppy  manner.  She  thought:  I  am  not  making  the  bed  as  well  as  I  used  to.  She  sat  down  on  the  bed  again  and  stared  at  the  floor.  'Then  her  eyes  moved  to  the  corner  of  the  room  near  the  closet.  In  the  corner,  in  the  place  where  the  two  walls  met,  there  was  a  gray  dustball  the  size  of  an  egg.  I  have  not  vacuumed  this  room  cor-  rectly,  she  thought.  Is  it  because  I  am  thirty-eight  now?  No.  Thirty-eight  is  young,  relatively.  I  am  young  and  vigorous.  George  is  handsome  and  well  paid.  We  are  going  to  Hawaii  in  June.  I  wonder  if  I  should  have  a  drink?  Mrs.  Edwards  went  out  to  the  kitchen  and  looked  at  the  vodka  bottle.  Then  she  looked  at  the  plate  with  the  bit  of  spinach  stuck  to  the  back.  She  scratched  the  spinach  from  the  plate  with  her  fingernail.  She  poured  some  vodka  into  a  glass.  She  went  to  the  refrigerator  to  get  some  ice  cubes,  but  when  she  opened  the  door  to  the  freezing  com-  partment  it  came  off  in  her  hands.  Mrs.  Edwards  regarded  the  door  to  the  freezing  compartment,  a  rectangu-  lar  piece  of  white  plastic.  The  door  to  the  freezing  compart-  ment  has  come  off,  she  thought.  She  placed  it  on  the  floor  next  to  the  refrigerator.  Then  she  removed  a  tray  of  ice  cubes  from  the  freezing  compart-  ment  and  made  herself  a  vodka-tonic.  The  telephone  rang.  Mrs.  Edwards  did  not  answer  it.  She  was  sitting  on  the  bed  looking  at  her  vodka-tonic.  The  telephone  rang  eleven  times.  Perhaps  I  should  listen  to  some  mu-  sic?  Mrs.  Edwards  arose  and  walked  into  the  living  room.  She  found  an  Angel  record:  &quot;Don  Giovanni  Highlights,&quot;  with  EberhardWachter,  Joan  Suther-  land,  and  Elisabeth  Schwarzkopf.  She  placed  the  record  on  the  turntable  and  switched  on  the  amplifier.  Then  she  sat  down  and  listened  to  the  music.  She  remembered  something  she  had  read  in  the  newspaper:  GIRL,  8,  FOUND  SLAIN  Mrs.  Edwards  drank  some  of  her  vodka-tonic.  Then  she  noticed  that  something  was  wrong  with  the  music.  The  turntable  was  slow.  The  music  was  dragging.  She  got  up  and  lifted  the  arm  of  the  turntable  to  see  if  there  was  anything  the  matter  with  the  needle.  She  scratched  the  needle  with  her  finger.     A  scratching  noise  came  out  of  the  speakers.  Behind  the  cabinet  on  which  the  turntable  sat-between  the  back  ofthe  cabinet  and  the  wall-there  was  a  pair  of  black  socks.  Black  socks,  she  thought.  Mrs.  Edwards  turned  off  the  ampli-  fier  and  carried  the  black  socks  to  the  closet.  She  placed  them  in  the  dirty-  clothes  hamper.  Take  clothes  to  laundromat,  she  thought.  Then  she  went  into  the  kitchen  and  made  herself  another  vodka-tonic.  Which  she  did  not  drink.  She  placed  the  second  vodka-tonic  on  the  small  table  beside  thebig  chair  in  the  living  room  and  looked  at  it.  I  used  to  put  lime  juice  in  my  vodka-  tonics,  she  thought.  Now  I  just  put  in  the  vodka  and  the  tonic,  and  the  ice.  When  did  I  stop  putting  in  the  lime  juice?  I  remember  buying  limes,  slic-  ing  limes,  squeezing  limes.  .  .  .  If  we  had  had  children,  I  could  have  interested  myself  in  the  problems  of  children.  I  once  won  a  prize  for  whistling  with  crackers  in  my  mouth,  she  re-  membered.  I  whistled  best.  At  a  birth-  day  party.  When  I  was  eight.  A  I  H  E  t  e  l  e  p  h  o  n  e  r  a  n  g  a  g  a  i  n  .  M  r  s  .  Edwards  did  not  answer  it.  Be-  she  was  afraid  that  it  was  the  Telephone  Company  call  ing  about  th  e  t  eleph  o  ne  bill.  The  Telephone  Company  had  already  called  once  about  the  tele  phone  bill.  She  had  told  the  woman  from  the  Telephone  Com  pany  that  she  would  send  a  check  right  away  bu  t  had  not  do  ne  so.  The  tel  ephone  bill  is  one  hun-  dred  and  twelve  dollars  ,  she  t  hought.  I  can  pay  it  on  th  e  fifteenth.  Or  I  ca  n  send  them  a  check  and  forget  t  o  sign  it.  I  have  not  done  that  for  a  long  time.  Probably  that  would  work,  at  th  is  time.  Mrs.  Edwards  drank  some  of  the  second  yvodka-tonic.  Do  I  not  put  t  he  lime  juice  in  because  of  the  war?  she  won-  dered.  The  incredible  war?  Is  that  why  I  don't  put  the  lime  juice  in?  Behind  her  -that  is,  behind  the  chair  in  whic  h  she  was  sit-  ting-a  large  picture  fell  off  the  wall.  There  was  a  sound  of  glass  b  reaking.  Mrs,  Edwards  did  not  turn  around  to  look.  I  never  liked  that  picture.  George  liked  that  picture.  Our  taste  in  pictures  differs.  I  like  Josef  Albers.  George  does  not     cause  " b" understand  what  Josef  Albers  is  all  about.  Only  I  understand  what  Josef  Albers  is  all  about.  Our  tastes  differ.  I  have  not  been  courted  properly  in  three  years.  It  is  ridiculous  to  have  a  reproduction  of  Marie  Laurencin  hang-  ing  in  one's  home.  In  theliving  room.  Once,  I  would  have  refused  to  have  a  reproduction  of  Marie  Laurencin  hanging  in  my  home.  Not  that  she  is  bad.  She  is  not  bad  at  all.  She  is  rather  good,  if  one  likes  that  sort  of  thing.  But  I  do  not  like  that  sort  of  thing.  Once,  I  would  have  fought  about  it.  Tooth  and  nail.  She  thought:  A  long  time  ago.  She  thought:  Did  I  remember  to  have  photostats  made,  front  and  back,  of  the  two  checks  for  $16.22  each  that  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  says  we  didn't  send  it  for  the  maid's  Social  Security  forthe  first  two  quarters  of  1970?  That  we  did  send?  Because  I  have  the  cancelled  checks?  No,  I  did  not.  I  must  take  the  checks  to  the  photostat  place  and  have  the  photostats  made  front  and  back  and  then  send  them  with  a  letter  to  the  Internal  Revenue  Service.  I  will  not  have  another  vodka,  tonic.  Because  I  have  will  power.  When  I  lived  in  the  city  I  had  a  dog.  I  would  go  out  and  walk  my  dog  at  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning.  I  would  see  all  the  other  people  walking  their  dogs.  We  would  smile  at  one  another  over  our  dogs.  If  I  have  will  power,  why  don't  I  take  my  anti-alcohol  pills?  Because  I  would  rather  drink.  Marie  Laurencin  had  a  good  time.  In  life.  Relatively.  1885-1956.  Am  I  a  standard-issue  American  al-  coholic  housewife?  Assembled  by  many  hands,  like  a  Rambler,  like  a  Princess  telephone?  But  there  is  my  love  forthe  work  of  Josef  Albers.  But  perhaps  every  one  of  us  hasa  wrinkle-kink  would  not  be  too  strong  a  word-which  enables  us  to  think  of  ourselves  as  ...  Marginal  differentia-  tion,  as  they  call  it  in  George's  business.  Three  years.  Mrs.  Edwards  looked  at  her  finger-  nails.  There  was  a  time,  she  thought,  when  I  cared  about  my  cuticles.  Mrs.  Edwards  thought  about  Duke  Ellington.  She  knew  everything  about  Ellington  there  was  to  know.  She  thought  about  Johnny  Hodges,  Harry  Carney,  Ivie  Anderson,  Tricky  Sam  Nanton,  Ray  Nance  the  fiddler,  Jim-  my  Blanton.  She  thought  especially  hard  about  Barney  Bigard.  She  thought  about  &quot;Transblucency,&quot;  &quot;What  Am  I  Here  For?,&quot;  and  &quot;East  St.  Louis  Too-  dle-o0.&quot;  This  music  had  made  her  hap-  py,  when  she  was  young.  But  the  turntable-  I  have  done  something  wrong,  she  thought.  &quot;  been  accumulating  for  many  days,  walked  up  the  stairs  from  the  basement  and  presented  itself  in  the  living  room.  Living  room,  Amelia  thought.  W  hat  does  that  mean?  There  is  wateron  the  floor  of  the  living  room.  Chagall  is  soft,  she  thought.  All  those  floating  lovers.  Kissing  above  the  rooftops.  He  has  radically  misperceived  the  problem.  The  telephone  rang  but  Mrs.  Ed-  wards  did  not  answer  it,  because  she  knew  that  the  caller  was  a  profession-  al  woman-terrorizer  who  was  not  very  good  at  it:  too  tentative.  She  had  talked  to  him  before.  His  name  was  Fred.  I  do  not  want  to  talk  to  Fred  today.  Mrs.  Edwards  looked  at  herself  and  noticed  that  she  had  forgotten  to  put  any  clothes  on.  When  she  had  gotten  up,  after  George  had  left  for  the  office.  She  was  not  wearing  any  clothes.  Then  she  went  into  the  kitchen  and  washed  the  rest  ofthe  dishes.  Very  well,  very  well  indeed.  Very  carefully.  Nobody  could  object  to  the  way  she  washed  them,  nobody  in  the  whole  At  this  point,  the  water,  which  had  world.  "