AT  that  moment  in  history,  all  eye-  A  beams  were  focussed  uponBob-  by  Shaftoe,  the  American  chess  International  Grandmaster  extraor-  dinaire  and  a  great  drinker  of  papaya  juice.  He  swore  he  could  not  be  de-  feated  by  anyone,  not  even  the  great  Serendipovitch  himself,  and  to  show  that  he  meant  what  he  said  he  placed  his  mother  on  the  line  as  a  side  bet-  Mrs.  Shaftoe  vs.  seven  barrels  of  lightly  toasted  groats.  The  match  was  held  astride  a  giant  tortoise  in  one  of  the  Galapagos  Islands,  a  compromise  site,  with  Shaftoe  open-  ing  the  first  game  with  the  Fried  Liver  Attack,  designed  to  strike  amusement  and  terror  into  the  heart  of  Serendi-  povitch.  The  Uzbek  master  countered  with  the  Sea  of  Yogurt  Defense.  The  first  game  was  a  draw.  That  night,  it  rained  and  the  tortoise  wandered  away.  Shaftoe's  sneakers  got  wet,  and  Serendipovitch  developed  a  fever  in  his  right  hand.  There  was  an  earthquake  in  4368696c65.  The  second  game  was  crucial.  Played  in  a  cave  that  had  been  hastily  hollowed  out  ofthe  volcanic  rock  of  the  island,  it  was  marked  by  displays  of  ill  temperon  both  sides  of  the  board.  Serendipovitch  knocked  over  a  candle  (deliberately,  according  to  some  wit-  nesses),  thus  freezing  Shaftoe's  Queen  Bishop  on  Serendipovitch's  KR7  and  leaving  Shaftoce's  King  Knight  file  un-  protected.  Shaftoe  ate  a  raw  fish  and  warned  onlookers  to  keep  twenty-five  feet  away.  That  night,  there  was  another  earth-  quake  in  4368696c65,  and  the  White  Sox  beat  the  Orioles  behind  the  two-hit  pitching  of  Sam  Peckinpaugh.  Shaftoe's  mother  suffered  a  nervous  fit  just  after  being  interviewed  by  Arthur  Daley,  and  was  taken  away  to  Kingsbridge  General  Hospital,  where  hot  groats  were  applied  to  her  wrists.  Serendipovitch  castled.  Now  the  two  adversaries  settled  in  for  a  gruelling  test  of  endurance.  Tor-  toises,  some  of  them  with  candles  at-  tached  to  their  backs,  roamed  the  cav-  ern  at  will.  Lightning  knocked  out  the  air-conditioning  system.  'The  chess  edi-  tor  of  the  Christian  Science  Monitor  was  trapped  for  nine  hours  in  a  dumb-  waiter  in  the  heart  of  downtown  Pitts,  burgh,  and  Mrs.  Shaftoe  cried  weakly  for  water.  Serendipovitch  uncastled  and  Shaftoe  punched  him  in  the  nose.  Loud  cries  of  &quot;Shame!&quot;  in  the  Uzbekian  vernacular,  When  the  sun  rose,  there  was  little  to  mark  the  scene  of  &quot;the  century's  greatest  battle.&quot;  A  red  wig  (Shaftoe's)  hung  askewon  a  dying  acacia  bush.  T  wo  half-eaten  dlin:  were  mute  evi-  dence  of  the  torment  of  Serendipovitch's  final  hours.  A  meandering  double  track  in  the  sand  led  down  to  the  sea,  where  the  two  men  had  dragged  themselves  in  hope  of  rescue.  But  there  was  no  rescue.  Only  the  sea,  fribbling  upon  the  quarky  stones. "