MA  Y  mother's  funeral  was  a  comic  M  event,  despite  the  keenings  and  the  ululations.  A  sizable  crowd,  all  in  sable,  the  mourners.  Grievously  stung  they  were  by  nettles,  which  grew  in  abundance.  We  took  a  shortcut  from  the  church  in  order  not  to  have  to  walk  over  the  bordered  paths.  It  was  as  if  we  couldn't  get  her  in  fast  enough-into  the  bowels  of  the  earth,  where  the  moles  and  sprites  are  reputed  to  be,  have  their  intricate  routes  and  conduits.  The  clay  got  richer,  red-  der,  the  deeper  the  men  dug.  They  were  quick  with  the  spade,  made  darty  incisions,  and  of  course  there  were  fine  manifestations  of  sorrow  sniffles,  tears,  gulps,  all  stifled  by  hand-  kerchief  or  make-do  handkerchief.  A  stripling  went  by,  a  fellow  with  un-  matching  eyes,  looking  for  sheep  of  his  that  had  strayed.  Five  or  six,  he  said.  God  damn  it,  a  matchless-eyed  man  of  miserable  means  ought  to  know  whether  he  had  lost  five  sheep  or  six.  Seeing  the  coffin  and  the  mourners,  he  realized  what  he  had  blundered  into  and,  squatting  to  denote  his  sympathy,  he  removed  his  cap  and  asked  whose  funeral  it  was.  At  the  crucial  moment  I  made  an  ape  of  myself.  I  jumped  in,  prostrated  myself,  bawled,  and,  woe  betide-a  second,  a  more  ludicrous  dis-  aster-I  sprained  my  ankle.  I  need  hardly  tell  you  the  furor  that  ensued.  Excitement  craned  its  head.  Maybe  that  is  why  I  jumped  in-to  leaven  the  oc-  casion.  I  doubt  it.  I  lack  the  talent  for  instigating  comedy.  They  put  it  down  togrief.  Some  said  a  seizure,  some  said  cracked,  some  said  highly  strung.  High-  ly  strung!  Ieat  like  a  horse,  the  rea-  son  being  to  encase  my  heart  in  a  solid  fortress  of  fat,  so  that  I  can  at  last  decently  and  uneventfully  expire  with-  out  much  ado,  to  return  in  the  end  to  materia  prima,  what-e'er  it  be.  There  were  refreshments  after  the  funeral.  The  catering!  She  would  not  have  tolerated  it.  'There  was  spotted  dick  and  big  biscuits  that  were  damp  and  had  somewhere  in  their  life  span  been  neighbors  to  paraffin  oil.  On  the  savory  side,  there  were  chunks  of  ham  thrown  onto  plates,  some  with  a  dollop  of  potato  salad  and  others  with  a  yellow  piccalilli,  depending  on  the  whim  of  the  two  serving  ladies.  The  whole  event  lacked  finesse.  Naturally,  there  weren't  enough  chairs.  People  had  to  sit  on  the  edges  of  chairs,  which  made  the  cutting  of  their  ham  precarious.  Then  the  ketchup  was  thin  and  scalding,  and  re-  straint  was  not  exercised  in  the  pouring  of  it.  This  was  due  to  the  seating  more  than  to  any  avidity.  Things  were  said-     not  too  many  things-her  praises  sung.  They  discussed  her  Memoriam  card,  discussed  what  mottoes  it  could  contain.  I  had  always  noticed  her  penchant  for  the  colloquial,  for  things  like  &quot;The  early  bird  catches  the  worm,&quot;  but  I  had  to  sit  there  and  hear  the  adages  of  Sts.  Jerome  and  Bonaventure  trotted  out  as  applicable  material.  How  little  we  make  of  what  we  know  of  anyone,  how  little  we  employ  it.  F  course  she  did  not  die  without  a  long  illness;  mothers  never  do.  Fathers  likewise.  I  went  to  nurse  her,  grudgingly.  No,  not  grudgingly;  with  pangs.  Birth  pangs,  life  pangs,  death  pangs-they  must  be  cousins.  She  was  upstairs-same  bed  as  she  had  given  birth  in,  had  had  her  lumbago  in  and  numerous  other  afflictions.  I  remained  out  of  the  room  as  much  as  possible,  out  in  the  hallway,  humming  so  that  she  should  know  I  was  there  doing  chores.  I  varnished  a  floor,  but  the  fumes  of  the  turpentine  did  not  agree  with  her.  In  other  words,  I  varnished  half  a  floor.  While  in  the  room,  I  washed  her  sores,  polished  the  mirrors,  and  made  plans  for  future  times-Christmas,  feast  days,  and  so  forth.  There  is  nothing  so  offensive  as  hoodwinking  the  nearly  dead.  We  die  by  degrees,  but  one  part  of  us  de-  cidedly  knows  when  it  is  all  just  over.  There  is  one  strand  of  the  mind  that  reckons  with  that  passing  over,  and  she  was  in  posses-  sion  of  it.  I  could  hear  it,  registering,  like  a  clock  and  invisibly  tick-  ing.  There  was  altar  wine  on  the  windowsill  which  bore  a  label  from  the  land  of  537061696e.  She  declined  that.  It  was  the  priest's  wine,  the  canon's.  Poor  canon,  he  coughed  when  he  came  to  shrive  her.  Not  a  bit  standoffish.  No  pream-  ble.  The  Sacrament  was  always  under  a  cloth,  a  cloth  that  had  little  darns  in  it.  She  swallowed  with  agony;  to  hear  her  swallow  was  to  have  pity  for  her,  the  stitches  under  her  throat  jabbing  away  like  needles.  Some  dis-  traction  always  inter-  vened  :  a  catsidled  in,  a  kettle  sang,  something  fell  off  the  bed,  usual-  ly  her  comb.  Once,  he  came  with  the  chalice  " b"  empty.  After  that,  the  curate  came.  Poor  canons,  old,  gray,  teetering,  lone-  ly  and  loony,  with  their  frock  coats  and  their  faithful  housekeepers,  that  breed  of  dark-warted  women  that  do  wait  upon  them.  I  would  go  out  on  the  landing  again  and  talk  in  to  her.  She  saw  the  treach-  ery  of  those  plans  regarding  Christ-  mas  and  holidaying,  and  her  eyes  were  like  daggers-blue,  cobalt  blue,  asking  not,  not  to  go.  Ranting,  raving.  I  heard  things  no  one  ought  to  hear-no  one  or  everyone.  She  listened  for  a  lorry  going  by,  mentioned  the  driver-a  big  brute,  she  said,  bullet-headed.  When  the  pain  got  less  or  the  morphine  got  more,  she  prayed.  How  she  prayed.  How  she  smiled  then.  The  clouds,  she  said,  so  similar  to  the  bushes,  to  the  bushiness  of  the  bushes.  The  clouds  had  the  ramble  of  bushes.  She  said,  Why  shouldn't  she  walk  and  talk,  though  not  even  a  buz-  zard  was  contradicting  her.  How  she  grieved.  She  said  you  could  put  all  the  pleasures  that  hadgone  into  her  life  into  a  thimble,  and  she  looked  for  a  thimble,  though  sewing  was  not  one  of  her  favorite  accomplishments.  The  pleasures  she  listed:  a  flower  be-  tween  the  pages  ofa  book,  a  journey  to  [REDACTED],  some  hats  with  veiling,  a  return  journey,  fresh  peaches  that  she  put  her  lips,  her  teeth,  and  finally  her  gums  into.  She  said  her  little  joys  ever  after  were  her  little  pullets  in  their  dust  baths,  dozing  and  sonoring  away,  cogi-  tating  to  lay  their  first  egg.  She  held  it  somewhere  in  her  mind's  hand,  the  little  egg.  She  scolded  the  pullets  be-  cause  of  laying  out,  said,  Did  they  not  know  there  was  a  henhouse.  She  went  in  search  of  them,  calling  and  cackling,  and  stopped  when  she  came  to  a  mound,  and  said,  Why  shouldn't  she  risk  going  up  and  in  sport  crown  herself  high  king  or  high  queen  of  that  place.  Without  moving  her  body  except  to  stir  a  toe  in  order  to  rub  another,  her  head  and  eyes  moved  as  she  went  up  the  mound.  There  was  a  fine  view  of  the  top  story  of  the  house,  she  said,  and  she  announced  that  the  slates  that  had  always  been  missing  were  still  missing.  She  uttered  a  snatch  of  a  song-half  song,  half  prayer.  She  said  the  place  had  three  trees-a  sycamore  with  its  pods  flat  and  empty,  an  oak,  and  a  little  hazel  bush.  She  said  the  bark  of  the  oak  was  gray  and  shredding,  like  she  was.  Then  some  children  went  by.  A  butch-  er's  son,  aveterinary  surgeon's  son,  a  druggist's  son-children  all  connected  with  the  dark  themes  of  life.  Gabbling.  She  searched  in  the  grass,  pretending  to  be  searching  for  eggs.  It  seems  they  told  her  to  beware  of  snakes,  and  she  said,  Insolent  buggers  they  were,  with  their  guns  and  their  cowboy  caps;  and  she  sent  them  packing,  said,  No  tres-  passing,  no  trespassers.  She  stayed  there  and  said,  How  she  longed  for  it  not  to  be  dark  but  to  be  bright-bright  days  and  shafts  of  light  passing  through  her,  and  her  children  all  young  again  and  around  her  as  in  a  needlework,  in  their  frills,  in  their  finery,  in  their  little  but-  toned  boots,  and  she  longed  and  she  longed  for  it,  and  she  reproached  God  and  man  and  said  that  it  was  not  hap-  pening  but  that  everything  was  getting  dark  and  the  mound,  too,  and  that  the  house  was  waiting  for  herself  to  come  in  and  trim  the  doddery  aladdin  and  light  it  up.  Suddenly  she  sat  up  and  said,  Was  there  an  &quot;R&quot;  in  the  month-because,  if  so,  we  were  running  a  risk  of  pneu-  monia,  sitting  out  there  on  damp,  dunged  grass.  I  said,  No,  which  was  all  I  could  say.  Her  eyes  were  daggers  asking  not  to  go,  not,  not  to  go.  She  ran  her  fingers  through  the  fringes  of  the  coverlet  as  if  they  were  rings,  trin-  kets,  and  she  said  foul  words  that  she  could  not  have  known.  I  had  washed  the  sheets-four  sheets  washed  per  day,  because  of  the  amount  she  hemorrhaged.  We  could  hear  them  on  the  clothesline  as  they  flappedabout.  That,  and  the  noise  of  the  rain,  rain  of  such  urgency,  blue  in  the  far-off  " b"26  places,  colorless  close  at  hand,  brown  where  it  lodged,  big  drops  falling  on  the  bladesof  grass,  appointing  itself  on  hedge  and  grass  blade,  then  more  and  more,  buckets  of  rain  and  a  whin-  ing  wind,  and  everything  shifting,  even  daisies  and  dandelions-particularly  daisies  and  dandelions,  small  things  uprooted-and  the  dogs  at  the  steps  moaning  to  get  in  to  her,  dogs  wet  and  sated  from  killing  rabbits,  coated  in  rain  but  tasting  of  blood.  &quot;''The  dogs,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  dogs,&quot;  I  said.  She  was  off  on  another  transport.  Dogs.  Some  dogs  have  nice  hair,  some  dogs  hunt  foxes,  cross  dogs  bite,  moun-  tain  dogs  have  stiff  coats,  dogs  drink  water  and  milk,  dogs  kill  cats,  dogs  eat  anything.  Her  mind  was  a  scuttle,  she  said,  clumps  where  thoughts  should  be.  Big  bulbous  clumps,  black  in  the  interior.  She  admitted  that  she  was  losing  her  faith.  It  was  forsaking  her  at  the  very  moment  when  she  needed  to  have  it  in  order  to  present  her  credentials.  She  raved,  but  then  became  coherent  in  the  moments  before  dying.  She  spoke  of  a  hatpin.  It  was  then  I  should  have  quiffed  her  hair,  or  put  one  of  her  Spanish  combs  through  it,  or  told  her  some  little  thing,  such  as  that  chicory  is  an  adulterant  in  coffee.  But  no,  I  let  her  rave.  That  hatpin  prodded  her.  It  turned  out  not  to  bea  hatpin  at  all  but  a  pair  of  shoes  that  had  got  stolen  by  a  tinker  woman  from  the  windowsill  where  they  were  put  to  dry.  The  ser-  geant  traced  them  for  her  and  found  that  they  had  been  sold  for  three  and  elevenpence,  and  the  matter  went  to  court.  In  the  court,the  purchaser,  a  creamery  manager's  wife,  perjured  herself,  got  flummoxed,  and  said  she  thought  the  tinker  woman  was  a  trav-  elling  saleswoman.  The  judge  lit  into  her  and  gave  a  lecture  about  the  Sixth  and  Seventh  Commandments.  She  said  that  the  scarifying  bit  was  when  she  had  to  go  up  on  the  rostrum  and  identify  the  said  shoes.  They  looked  wretched  because  of  not  having  been  dusted,  let  alone  polished  and  buffed.  She  said  she  would  have  done  anything  to  have  wiped  them  with  the  nap  of  her  coat,  and  have  the  case  quashed.  The  culprit  got  a  month  in  the  county  jail.  &quot;And  I  in  dread  of  peelers,&quot;  she  said  over  and  over  again.  It  had  gnawed  into  her,that  crime,  that  cruelty,  like  rats  or  mice  gnawing  behind  wainscoting.  I  should  have  embraced  her,  praised  her  for  her  good  deeds,  but  I  didn't.  Maybe  I  didn't  want  to.  She  rose-or  at  least  she  attempted  to  rise,  held  on  to  the  brass  rung,  tried  to  heft  herself  up-ordered  the  pony    to  be  tackled,  asked  to  be  taken  out  of  the  stifling  room  to  the  slopes  of  yellow  gorse,  to  pick  blackberries.  She  begged  to  come  back  from  death's  door.  She  mouthed  it.  She  stopped  mouthing  it.  Then  it  was  so  simple,  like  the  shutters  going  up  on  a  big  house  once  the  sea-  son  is  over.  It  was  not  at  all  like  the  thing  called  death;  it  was  as  if  she  were  being  carted,  being  borne  in,in,  in  to  elsewhere,  to  nowhere.  When  I  held  her  then,  it  was  like  holding  a  giant  vegetable  marrow.  The  absence  of  pulse  and  heartbeat  changes  every-  thing.  We  did  the  thing  with  the  pennies  and  ordered  a  brown  shroud.  E  put  ourselves  to  the  task  of  clearing  and  cleaning.  She  left  no  heirlooms,  only  a  fan,  her  ring,  and  a  small  reticule.  There  were  my  father  and  I.  He  sat  by  the  fire,  and  the  cries  he  emitted  were  not  cries  he  was  aware  of.  He  didn't  refer  to  her  directly  but  kept  recalling  her  contemporaries-  girls  with  oaken  hair,  her  murdered  brother,  blind  Dr.  Rath.  He  said  blind  Dr.  Rath  was  a  grand  fellow  and  a  great  sport,  had  organized  card  games   and  had  once  put  up  his  own  table  as  a  stake  and  lost  it-a  dining-room  table,  arbutus,  at  that.  &quot;You'll  stay,&quot;  he  said.  I  knew  it  would  come,  but  not  so  swiftly.  I  was  not  ready.  I  balked.  Why  hadn't  they  died  together,  the  way  each  succeeding  pair  of  dogs  had  done?  I  donned  her  brown  astrakhan  coat  and  set  out  on  foot.  I  walked  fields,  then  more  fields,  to  a  river  and  back.  An  uneventful  walk,  apart  from  the  pondering.  Heaps  of  stones,  great  galleries  of  stones  to  the  sky,  to  the  oozing  heavens,  rowsupon  rows  of  stone  walls  and  kilns.  Whereas  the  Egyp-  tians  made  pyramids.  The  prevailing  color  was  gray,  tap-water  gray.  'The  leaves  fell  off  ;  it  would  be  more  precise  to  say  that  they  were  ripped  off,  be-  cause  there  was  nothing  propitious  about  the  wind  that  day.  Then  they  got  themselves  tagged  onto  some  sharp  point-a  spike  or  a  stump  ora  barb  of  wire.  I  saw  it  all,  the  future-his  spleen,  the  humors,  going  to  the  races,  on  the  booze,  his  suits  full  of  stains,  then  the  recuperation,  water  bottles,  powders,  tisanes,  and  along  with  all  that  the  daily  rages,  the  cabalistic  out-  bursts.  I  could  not,  duty  or  no  duty.  When  I  got  back  to  the  house,  he  was  sleeping  on  the  bedchair.  He  had  taken  a  draught;  the  beaker  was  beside  him,  stained  brown  from  valerian.  I  packed,  sothat  he  would  know  what  he  had  to  know  before  being  told  it  formally.  The  suitcase  was  down  by  the  hall  door,  along  with  some  bul-  rushes  I  had  picked.  &quot;You  scab  you,&quot;  he  said.  After  he  had  closed  the  door,  I  heard  the  upper  and  lower  bolts  snap  into  place.  -Epnxna  O'Brien  "