24  THIS  LIFE  T  was  easy  to  get  in.  Remember?  A  quick  physical,  then  a  written  exam  on  green  paper,  andyou  were  in,  as  they  say.  The  examination  was  on  the  history  of  military  flowers.  The  answers  were  multiple  choice,  and  you  found  much  information  that  was  new:  1.  Bird  of  Paradise.  An  exotic  flower.  Remember,  it  can  stab.  Hill  339  was  taken  by  a  fierce  charge  in  which  the  only  wounds  inflicted  were  Bird  of  Paradise  wounds.  2.  Tiger  Lily.  This  flower  is  an  ex-  plosion,  an  orange  flame  of  petals  spat-  tered  by  a  burst  of  black  flak.  Effective  as  a  hand  grenade.  3.  Lily  of  the  V  alley.  The  traditional  flower  of  choice  at  military  funerals.  To  be  placed  on  the  departed's  chest,  among  the  little  craters  created  by  incoming  bul-  lets  from  the  flowering  submachine  gun.  4.  Poppies.  Said  to  grow  where  drops  of  blood  fell.  Useful  as  marks  of  military  affiliation,  worn  as  cockades,  red  or  white.  A  paramilitary  communications  de-  vice  to  signal  your  intentions,  friendly  or  hostile,  as  in  the  Wars  of  the  Roses,  or  in  the  Revolution  of  the  Chrysanthemums.  5.  Forget-me-nots.  Of  little  logistical  import.  Sometimes  found  in  fallen  sol-  diers'  pockets  or  letters,  in  a  &quot;pressed&quot;  state.  6.  Gardenia.  A  flower  said  to  be  as  beautiful  as  the  rose,  the  favorite  of  Tex-  an  soldiers.  It  is  an  edible  flower,  made  of  the  stuff  of  memories.  Clearly,  one  of  those  exams  in  which  you  are  given  much  more  than  you  give  away.  You  find  a  trace  of  satisfac-  tion  in  your  contemplation  and  suc-  cessful  completion  of  such  an  exam.  That  first  night,  the  password  was  &quot;How  high  is  the  moon?&quot;  Answer:  &quot;Full  fathom  five.&quot;  It  is  too  easy  to  blame  that  bottle  of  Courvoisier,  your  only  resource  on  that  summer  evening,  when,  having  fin-  ished  with  college,  and  in  excellent  health,  you  sat  down  to  consider  your  prospects.  It  is  also  too  easy  to  blame  your  old  friend  Felix,  who  asked  the  question  &quot;What  to  do?,&quot;  and  suggest-  ed  taking  the  exam,  and  even  went  to  take  it  with  you,  only  to  opt  out  at  the  last  minute  in  favor  of  a  fellowship  to  Lapland,  where  he  now  studies  the  feeding  habits  of  the  ptarmigan,  a  fat  white  grouse  of  northern  regions,  while  here  you  are  in  [REDACTED].  On  Act  of  Duty.  Was  it  better,  living  in  [REDACTED],  working  in  a  big  office  for  Mr.  Bashoff,  a  little  old  man  with  frizzly  white     IN  GREEN  hair?  So  what  if  he  had  been  a  sculp-  tor  once,  and  knew  Chagall  in  [REDACTED]?  The  old  man  complained  about  his  residential  hotel  (&quot;Place  is  getting  to  be  full  of  crazies&quot;),  offered  you  oval  cigarettes  from  a  silver  case,  and,  against  all  reason,  saw  a  bright  future  for  you  in  business.  Yes,  life,  with  its  unwritten  rules,  seemed  to  be  a  drag.  There  were  compensations,  to  be  sure.  Meeting  Lisa,  for  example.  But  that  was  just  before  you  entered  this  life  in  green.  This  life  in  green  welcomed  you  with  lobelias-lobelias  and  nasturtiums,  and  an  emphasis  on  signs.  In  the  mess  hall,  prints  of  [REDACTED]  on  the  walls,  next  to  neat  little  signs  made  of  wood.  &quot;Post  Best  Mess  1965.&quot;  Newcomers  are  keen  on  exchanging  home  towns  and  states.  An  offer  of  [REDACTED]  goes  up  in  the  air.  [REDACTED],  anyone?  [REDACTED]  is  mentioned,  and  there  is  talk  of  Zanesville,  [REDACTED].  True  or  False?  &quot;I  like  to  wear  loud  ties.&quot;  (From  another  test,  the  Self-  Description  Test.)  But  you  do  not  wear  ties.  Try  another.  &quot;I  was  often  a  ringleader  when  our  gang  got  into  trouble.&quot;  No  luck.  Ah,  here  is  an  easy  one:  &quot;It  is  my  turn  today  and  yours  to-  morrow.&quot;  Well,  yes,  you  are  certainly  in  agreement  here.  And  thus  your  character  takes  shape.  Able  Company  goes  by  on  the  street,  chanting,  &quot;We  are  Able,  mighty-  mighty  Able...&quot;  Baker  Company  follows:  &quot;Here  comes  Baker,  rough-  tough  Baker  .  .  .&quot;  Then  comes  Charlie,     singing,  &quot;Strange-dreaming  Charlie,  cow-eved  Charlie  ...&quot;  There  are  many  mockingbirds,  wear-  ing  the  customary  uniform.  OMETIMES  it  almost  seems  that  we  are  foresters  in  some  foreign  land,  with  very  short  hair  and  funny  helmets  that  look  like  steel  pots.  We  hold  them  by  the  chin  straps  as  we  gather  stones  from  a  newly  planted  lawn,  or  pick  up  dewy  beer  cans  and  an  carly-blooming  cigarette  butt  under  the  pines.  Little  bodies  make  little  piles,  It  is  easy  to  stay  trim  around  here.  Daily  exercises  encourage  a  low  sil-  houette-low  and  slim.  There  are  star-  tling  positions  to  be  assumed,  and  the  penalties  for  inattention  are  severe.  Oc-  casionally  you  are  obliged  to  &quot;make  a  duck.&quot;  At  times,  youdo  the  &quot;Hokey  Pokey.&quot;  It  is  understood  by  everyone  that  infractions  must  be  dealt  with  in-  stantly.  The  code  demands  obedience.  Cimparelli  learns  this  after  he  has  talked  to  the  tree  for  more  than  fifteen  minutes.  His  conversation  is  restricted  to  repeating  the  statement  &quot;I  am  a  jackass.&quot;  The  tree  listens  firmly,  po-  litely.  Every  day,  in  every  way,  we  learn  to  respect  the  body,  its  venerable  points.  The  body  is  a  temple  in  which  more  than  what  is  apparent  resides.  We  all  know  where  the  family  jewels  are  kept,  but  where  do  we  look  for  the  hidden  treasure?  'The  instructor  in-  sists  on  calling  it  Hand-to-Hand  Com-  bat,  this  gliding,  stomping  exercise  with  fluid  movements  so  much  like  a  dance.  It  is  a  dance  of  bodhisattvas  revolving  around  the  hidden  treasure,  the  dia-  mond  center  of  the  body.  When  you  are  forced  to  quack,  it  often  comes  out  as  a  howl.  Here,  as  elsewhere,  complaining  will  get  you  nowhere.  It  gets  you  to  the  of-  fice  of  the  man  Schuylkill,  who  has  lit-  tle  patience  with  deviants  and  yellow-  bellies.  He  has  blond  bristles  on  his  head,  a  fleshy  nose,  watery  eyes.  Per-  haps  a  man  who  eats  too  much  meat.  He  is  inordinately  proud  of  his  band,  and  claims  to  be  interested  in  poetry  and  higher  education.  He  wants  a  poem  in  praise  of  the  life  in  green.  &quot;I  am  sorry,  Lieutenant,  a  Graduation  Poem  is  out  ofthe  question.&quot;  Music,  in  this  life  in  green,  is  provided  by  the  band.  Early  in  the  morning,  " b"25     when  most  bands  are  still  dreaming  of  music,  the  band  strikes  up  at  the  back  of  the  auditorium,  where  three  com-  panies  are  gathered  for  today's  train-  ing  film  on  the  fighting  lobsters.  It  is  a  small  and  struggling  band  and  it  is  up  against  the  usual  early-morning  anti-  band  vibrations,  as  well  as  the  music  itself.  However,  music  is  hard  to  sub-  due,  although  the  band  does  come  pretty  close  each  morning.  The  band  attempts  only  two  kinds  of  music-  Verdi  marches  and  Latin  dance  num-  bers.  Because  it  is  a  small  band,  some  ofthe  musicians  must  double  on  more  than  one  instrument;  the  trombone  from  the  &quot;Triumphal  March&quot;  in  &quot;Aida&quot;  be-  comes  the  maracas  in  &quot;La  Cucaracha.&quot;  In  spite  of  all,  a  few  melodies  manage  to  stagger  and  totter  forth  each  morn-  ing,  eager  to  escape  torture,  winning  their  freedom  at  some  slight  cost.  In  this  they  resemble  foxes  and  badgers  that  chew  off  their  own  paws  to  escape  from  traps.  Milling  Around  has  developed  from  just  plain  milling  around  into  an  ac-  tivity  worthy  of  attention,  practiced  before  Mail  Call,  or  after  crawling  through  the  Snake  Pit.  If  orders  did  not  exist,  neither  would  Milling  Around;  but  now  it  is  the  dialectical  prerequisite  for  commands  such  as  &quot;Ground  your  equipment!&quot;  and  &quot;Pre-  pare  to  rotate!&quot;  X  E  stand  in  a  forest  clearing,  hav-  ing  just  finished  drilling  with  rifles-objects  in  a  strange  meditative  exercise.  We  stand  at  ease.  Someone  in  the  back  ranks,  inspecting  his  weapon  with  casual,  bored  inattention,  clicks  the  chamber.  All  around,  ears  perk  up.  The  barely  audible  click  seems  to  echo  through  the  woods.  Within  half  a  min-    ute,  every  man  has  clickedthe  chamber  of  his  weapon  at  least  once,  obeying  the  compulsion  of  some  unknown  ritual.  The  question  yelled  at  us  each  day:  &quot;What's  the  Spirit  ofthe  Bayonet?&quot;  This  life  in  green  revolves  around  an  invisible  character  named  Charlie.  He  has  to  be  zapped  at  all  costs.  First  de-  tected,  then  zapped.  All  our  activities  are  aimed  at  Charlie,  although  it  seems  there  is  less  and  less  of  him  these  days.  Charlie  is  getting  smaller  and  smaller,  and  harder  to  see.  Smaller  bodies  are  making  smaller  piles,  and  presumably  the  pain  is  less,  too.  Every  day,  we  yell  the  answer  to  the  question  yelled  at  us:  &quot;To  killl  To  kill!&quot;  At  a  night  exercise,  you  see  men  in  green  running  acrossa  field,  with  trac-  ers  streaking  overhead.  It  is  a  flight  to  freedom.  The  uniforms  vibrate  and  seem  to  change  colors.  Are  they  light  blue  now,  the  limitless  blueof  the  sky?  Men  in  light  blue  giving  the  old  col-  lege  roar  as  they  charge  up  Hill  227,  with  nothing  but  broomsticks  intheir  hands.  Some  of  them  appear  to  be  smoking  briar  pipes,  and  they  leave  a  trail  of  bruises  and  blue  smoke.  There  goes  a  man  in  a  deerstalker  hat.  There  goes  another,  wrapped  in  a  kirtle.  And  now  all  these  men  in  tartans  are  marching  to  the  sound  of  bagpipes,  in-  to  the  friendly  conversation  of  guns,  &quot;blat-blat,&quot;  over  the  hilltop.  Marching  men  in  tartans  are  tapped  on  the  shoul-  der,  &quot;blat-blat.&quot;  Heaps  on  the  ground.  The  field  is  full  of  laughing,  screaming  obstacles.  Now  the  tracers  are  coming  in  a  little  lower.  Two  samurai,  running  with  that  peculiar  gait  of  the  samurai-  a  courteous,  fast  saunter-stop  short  and  bow  to  some  invisible  enemy  way  over  on  the  left,  and  then  slowly,  with  incalculable  grace,  spin  around  and  fold  up  into  neat  little  samurai  bundles  on  the  ground.  Their  long  black  manes  lie  undone,  and  mad  ghosts  emerge  from  the  tops  of  their  heads,  cackling  and  leaping  and  bounding  from  crum-  pled  heaps  of  samurai  brocade.  Purple  flowers,  ballooning  pantaloons,  broken  banners  fluttering  in  the  night.  A  Turk  with  a  yataghan  in  his  mouth  crawls  by.  Behind  him,  wearing  nothing  but  a  loincloth,  tomahawk  in  hand,  slithers  an  old,  childhoodIndian  ofthe  Cordil-  leras,  a  killer  of  grizzly  bears.  To-  gether,  we  reach  the  enemy  trenches.  They  are  empty;  they  look  as  if  they  havebeen  unoccupied  for  months;  they  look  as  if  they  have  never  been  occu-  pied.  But  the  gunfire  in  the  dark?  The  tracers  still  flashing  overhead?  Who  was  firing  at  us  all  that  time?  OU  are  found  guilty  of  littering,  loitering,  lingering,  and  malin-  gering.  The  trial  is  in  Schuylkill's  office.  You  see  each  spicule  of  blond  hair  on  his  head.  Behind  him  stands  a  glass  and  metal  trophy  case  full  of  glass  and  metal  sharpshooting  trophies.  He  asks  a  question,  the  usual  daily  question,  in  a  joking  way.  &quot;What's  the  spirit  of  the  bayonet?&quot;  You  answer,  and  fragments  are  flying.  Stab  of  glass,  stab  of  metal.  Your  hand  is  bleeding,  the  paper  in  Schuylkill's  hand  is  shaking.  A  lesser  official  starts  to  pick  up  the  trophies.  A  few  days  later,  when  a  new  trophy  case  has  been  installed,  you  are  allowed  to  sign  papers  releasing  you  from  this  life  in  green.  "