 RUNNING  NICELY  Nightly  at  ten,  the  Birnstein  boys  run  together  along  the  quiet  streets  of  suburban  [REDACTED],  amile  and  a  quarter  under  the  full-leaved  summer  trees.  Here  comes  Moses,  down  the  stairs  from  the  flat.  He's  twenty-two,  five  five  and  a  half,  brown  hair,  dressed  tonight  in  jungle-green  shorts  (deep  pockets,  balloon  seat)  and  horizontally  striped  (maroon  and  cream)  lightweight  Italian  mohair  shirt,  the  collar  stylishly  flared.  Brown  shoes,  blue  socks.  On  his  heels  comes  Ben,  twelve,  blondish,  five  eight,  crisp  and  correct  in  sporting  white,  save  for  the  soles  of  his  tennis  shoes,  which  pop  up  brick  red.  They  jog  to  the  front  gate,  and  from  here  the  run  may  be  said  properly  to  begin.  o?  &quot;You  lock  the  door?&quot;  Moses  asks.  Yes,&quot;  says  Ben.  &quot;Turn  off  the  lights?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes.\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;All  of  them?&quot;  You  told  me  to  leave  one  on.&quot;  &quot;'Where's  the  key?  I  don't  trust  your  pockets.&quot;  SEE  them  go!  Clock  their  speed!  17  *~  [\xc2\xa7  a  Moses  buries  the  front-door  key  in  a  pocket  of  his  shorts  under  five  ancient  Kleenexes,  tamping  them  down  for  ex-  tra  security,  and  then,  without  further  word,  is  suddenly  off,  assuming  an  in-  stant  five-yard  lead.  Ben  narrows  it  at  once  to  two,  and,  keeping  this  forma-  tion,  they  head  down  the  road.  They're  off!  Not  too  fast,  thinks  Moses,  pacing  himself  carefully,  introducing  the  night  air  slowly  into  his  lungs.  [REDACTED]  and  easy,  he  thinks.  There's  a  long  way  to  go.  A  lifetime  sufferer  from  flat  feet,  he  concentrates  on  the  proper  placement  of  his  toes,  affecting  a  slight  springy  bounce.  He  wiggles  his  arms  loosely  by  his  sides.  He  throws  back  his  head  and  takes  some  deep  sniffs.  Ah!Ah!  Ben  is  a  silent  white  blur  in  the  corner  of  Moses'  eye.  Good,  thinks  Moses,  pleased  at  the  running  order.  A  little  respect.  Cars  zoom.  A  heavy  truck  rumbles  and  roars.  Next  comes  a  bus,  lit  up  like  a  travelling  house.  Overhead,  the  trees  area  sickly  yellow  from  the  fluorescent  lights  on  the  main  road,  their  leaves  like  old  paper  stuck  up  in  the  branches     MAY  6  197  2  and  twigs.  Moses  doesn't  like  this  stretch  of  the  run.  He  feels  exposed.  Anyone  could  go  shooting  past  in  acar  and  see  them,  running  like  lunatics  in  the  night.  Oh,  it's  the  poor  Birn-  stein  boys!  What  a  tragedy!  To  be  orphaned  so  young!  What  are  they  do-  ing,  running  at  this  hour?  Look  how  thin  they  are!  Anyone  could  see  them  here-Mr.  Pincus,  Mr.  Sharp,  Mrs.  Goldberg  and  her  three  chins,  an  uncle,  an  aunt,  an  old  family  friend,  all  those  sad  faces  at  the  funeral.  Moses  feels  they're  all  watching,  horrified,  as  he  runs  with  his  brother,  and  he  is  relieved  when  he  and  Ben  turn  the  corner,  off  the  main  road,  and  true  suburban  night  descends.  Now  it's  nice.  The  trees  are  leafier,  the  street  is  darker,  private,  and  the  roar  of  the  traffic,  like  the  sea,  has  dropped  away;  now  the  only  sounds  are  the  fall  of  their  feet  and  the  regular  puffing  of  breath.  Ben  closes  the  gap  and  they  run  together,  side  by  side.  There  is  a  smell  of  water  in  the  air  here,  a  smell  of  flowers  and  moist  earth,  but  the  gardens,  as  they  pass,  are  dark.  Grass  is  dark.  Flowers  are  dark.  The  trees  are  dark,  except  where  at  regular  intervals  the  street  lights  shine  through,  a  row  of  moons  down  the  length  of  the  street.  They  run  from  light  to  light,  breathing  easily,  and  the  only  other  light  is  the  weird  flickering  blue  of  television  screens,  one  without  fail  in  every  house  they  pass.  Fools,  thinks  Moses,  and  feels  a  certain  pride  at  how  he  has  weaned  his  brother,  a  former  three-hours-a-night  man,  of  that  awful  habit.  Not  by  any  stern  com-  mand-the  set's  there,  and  he  can  turn  it  on  any  time  he  likes-but  by  getting  him  in-  terested  in  other  things,  wid-  ening  his  horizons.  They  watch  reruns  of  &quot;Naked  City&quot;  and  on  Friday  nights  an  old  movie,  if  there's  a  good  one,  but  the  best  eve-  nings  are  when  Ben  has  fin-  ished  his  homework  and  they  turn  on  the  hi-fi  and  listen  to  early  Coleman  Hawkins,  Django,  and  Bird.  &quot;Listen  to  this,&quot;  says  Moses,  popping  on  Art  Tatum.  &quot;Just  lis-  ten  to  that  left  hand!&quot;  And  one  afternoon,  Moses  remem-  bers,  he  came  home  early  &quot; " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  ing,  and  Ben  delivering  to  his  con-  temporaries  an  authoritative  history  of  jazz.  There's  another  corner  coming  up.  Moses  feels  Ben  speeding  up  a  fraction,  and  paces  himself  accordingly.  They  turn  the  corner  in  unison,  running  in  step.  There's  a  cluster  of  shops  here,  five  stores  serving  the  neighborhood  -there  used  to  be  six,  but  the  grocer  went  self-  service  and  swallowed  up  the  lending  library  next  door-and  as  they  go  past  Moses  sneaks  a  look  at  himself  and  Ben,  mirrored  in  the  dark  windows.  Ben,  he  sees,  has  his  mouth  open,  but  not  too  wide,  breathing  easily.  He  notes  the  steely  concentration  in  his  brother's  eyes.  A  champion!  He  rejoices,  and  then  almost  lets  outa  small  laugh  as  he  sees  himself,  a  crazy  hotchpotch  of  pat-  terns  and  colors,  the  collar  of  his  Ital-  ian  mohair  poking  up  at  the  back  like  a  foolish  bird  hanging  on  for  the  ride.  Then  his  brother  surges  ahead  five  or  six  yards,  and  he  lets  him  go.  I  can  catch  him  in  a  second,  Moses  thinks.  Let  him  run  a  bit.  Look  at  him,  Moses  thinks  as  Ben  flashes  past  the  last  shop-a  chem-  ist's-his  reflection  riding  over  bottles  and  jars  and  the  faces  of  beautiful  women.  Where'd  he  get  that  style?  Where  did  he  learn  to  run  so  nicely  like  that?  Not  from  me,  that's  for  sure.  The  thing  is,  he  hasn't  got  my  flat  feet.  Thank  God.  Running  behind  his  brother  but  keeping  the  distance  between  them  steady,  Moses  thinks  of  many  things,  quickly,  one  after  the  other.  How  his  *  brother  is  adept  at  tossing  green  salads,  his  French  dressing  a  joy  to  behold.  How  his  brother  dresses  neatly,  the  right  tic  with  the  right  jacket,  theright  socks.  How  he  comes  home  to  find  his  brother  has  cleaned  the  flat,  straight-  ened  the  rugs,  made  the  beds.  How  his  brother  can  tell  Charlie  Parker  from  Sonny  Stitt  with  his  eyes  closed.  How  his  brother  is  halfway  through  &quot;Catch-  22.&quot;  &quot;You  skipping?&quot;  Moses  asked  him.  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  said  Ben.  &quot;I'm  reading  every  word.&quot;  &quot;You  know  what  you're  doing  to  him,&quot;  said  Moses'  girl,  eating  dinner  at  the  flat  one  night.  &quot;You're  taking  away  his  youth.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  said  Moses.  &quot;What  a  load  of  rubbish.  He's  an  intelligent  kid,  that's  all.&quot;  And  he  could  have  said  more,  but  he  didn't  feel,  just  then,  like  getting  dragged  into  it.  A  car  goes  past.  For  a  second,  Moses  is  annoyed.  What's  this  intrusion?  But  the  car  is  quickly  gone,  all  trace  of  it,  3 all  sound,  and  once  again  they  run  through  immaculate  suburban  night,  past  the  houses  with  their  weird  blue  lights,  past  the  neat  gardens,  too  dark  to  admire,  under  the  canopy  of  black  trees  and  the  regular  moons  of  the  street  lights  shining  through.  And  sud-  denly  Moses  has  a  vision.  The  whole  world  has  been  constructed  for  him  and  his  brother  to  run  through,  the  trees  planted,  the  houses  built,  the  television  sets  turned  on,  the  smell  of  water  in  the  air,  even  the  stars  in  the  sky,  everything  arranged  and  set  into  place-thousands  of  years  of  prepara-  tion  for  this  moment  in  time,  the  whole  world  dark,  at  peace,  with  no  sound  allowed  but  his  and  Ben's  breathing  and  the  fall  of  their  feet  in  the  night.  [REDACTED],  thinks  Moses,  running  easily.  They're  almost  at  the  end  of  the  street  now,  Ben  still  ahead.  Well,  thinks  Moses,  I'd  better  catch  up,  and  he  quickens  his  pace,  coming  up  to  his  brother  in  a  rush  just  as  they  get  to  Brown  Street,  where  there's  another  corner  to  turn,  Ben,  on  the  inside,  gets  around  nimbly,  not  losing  an  inch,  but  Moses  overshoots,  runswith  a  clump  into  the  gutter  and  onto  the  road,  and  by  the  time  he  has  sorted  himself  out  and  is  running  straight  again  Ben  is  fifteen  yards  ahead,  may-  be  more.  Hey,  what'she  doing?  thinks  Moses.  It's  not  a  race.  We're  supposed  to  be  running  together.  And  he  speeds  up,  flat  feet  thudding  the  ground,  his  hands  balled  into  tight  fists  up  by  his  heaving  chest.  Here  I  come,  boy!  he  announces.  Watch  my  speed.  Brown  Street  is  famous  in  the  neigh-  J  (  {}{for  " b"40  borhood.  Halfway  along  its  length  it  takes  a  sudden  plummet,  a  totally  unexpected  plunge.  The  incline  is  fantastic.  Children  love  it.  They  roar  down  on  their  bikes,  screams  like  streamers  flying  from  their  mouths.  Wheee!  Brown's  Hill!  Race  ya  to  the  bottom!  The  postman  hates  it,  moth-  ers  with  prams  curse  it,  old  people  have  to  pause  three  times,  gasping,  as  they  slowly  ascend,  and  here  comes  Moses,  his  flat  feet  making  an  unholy  racket  as  he  streaks  after  his  sporting  brother,  all  proper  toe  placement  for-  gotten,  his  hair  standing  up  wildly  in  the  self-generated  wind.  The  gap  whittles  down.  From  fif-  teen  it  goes  to  ten,  six,  two,  and-  flash!  -he's  passed  him,  roaring  like  an  engine,  but  what's  this?  he's  for-  gotten  the  hill,  aaarrrhhh,  and  down  he  goes,  picking  up  speed  by  the  sec-  ond,  his  feet  out  of  control-a  terrible  mistake.  Tree  trunks  whip  past,  fences,  windows,  one  street  light  after  another.  Moses  is  a  train.  Moses  is  the  stage-  coach  racing  driverless  to  the  cliff.  How  to  slow  down?  How  to  stop?  Impossible.  Can't  be  done.  God,  thinks  Moses,  I'm  going  to  break  a  leg.  Ben  is  forgotten  as  Moses  charges  down  the  famous  hill,  insane  thoughts  of  grabbing  a  tree  or  suddenly  sitting  down  flying  through  his  head.  He's  two-thirds  of  the  way  to  the  bottom,  and  by  some  manner  unknown  even  to  himself  has  managed  to  keep  up-  right,  when  who  should  pop  out  from  her  gate  but  a  little  old  lady  from  No.  26,  her  night  of  television  viewing  at  an  end,  time  to  take  the  dog  for  a  stroll.  Her  dog  is  the  size  of  a  handbag  or  muff,  and  is  attached  to  the  woman  by  a  length  of  fine  chain,  and  as  Moses  approaches,  puffing  like  a  furnace,  the  dog  whips  around  and  lets  out  a  terri-  fied  squeaky  bark,  like  one  pump  on  an  old  pair  of  bellows.  Reeee!  The  little  lady  turns,  looks  up,  and  sees,  advancing  in  the  night,  a  wild-eyed  maniac  streaked  with  sweat.  A  rapist!  A  fiend!  Her  small  mouth  falls  open.  Her  rimless  spectacles  catch  a  street  light  and  turn  dead  white.  &quot;Good  evening  and  don't  worry,&quot;  Moses  wants  to  say.  &quot;I  intend  you  no  harm.&quot;  But  of  course  he  can't.  It's  all  he  can  do  not  to  crash  into  her,  not  to  go  fly-  ing  over  the  thin  chain  connecting  her  to  her  petrified  dog;  somehow,  miracu-  lously,  he  veers  around,  panting  madly.  But  who  is  this  streaking  up  behind  him?  Why,  it's  Ben,  coming  up  with  Olympic  prowess,  and  for  a  moment,  as  Brown's  Hill  flattens,  they're  to-  gether,  running  side  by  side.  For  ten  yards,  they're  neck  and  neck,  but  Ben  is  in  fine  control  and  Moses  is  not,  and  almost  before  he  knows  what's  hap-  pening  an  assortment  of  belches  escapes  Moses'  body,  fine  swinish  snorts-a  barnyard  carnival  no  less.  &quot;Hee  hee,&quot;  laughs  Moses,  and  sees  on  the  face  of  his  brother  the  begin-  nings  of  an  answering  laugh,  and  as  though  to  encourage  him  Moses  laughs  again.  &quot;Hee  hee,  ha  ha,&quot;  he  laughs,  and  is  about  to  do  a  &quot;ho  ho&quot;  when  he  sees  a  look  of  annoyance  flick  across  his  brother's  face;  then  a  mask  of  severe  determination  descends,  and  Ben  is  off,  streaking  free  into  the  night.  Hold  it  a  second,  Moses  wants  to  say,  but  can't.  Something  is  happening  to  his  lungs.  His  breath  is  all  over  the  place.  His  running  rhythm  is  upside  down.  &quot;Ooooh!&quot;  he  cries,  feeling  a  sharp  pain  in  his  side,  and  then  there  flashes  into  his  brain  the  rimless  spec-  tacles  of  the  lady  from  No.  26,  and  he  begins  once  more  to  laugh.  &quot;Ha  ha,&quot;  he  laughs,  &quot;hee  hee,&quot;  but  between  " b" laughs  there  is  a  stab  of  pain,  and  when  he  tries  not  to  laugh,  it's  worse.  &quot;Ow!&quot;  cries  Moses.  &quot;Oooh!&quot;  still  run-  ning,  blood  pumping  in  his  head.  He  stops.  His  breath  is  a  hot  wind  through  parched  lips.  Black  spots  jump  in  front  of  his  eyes.  He  stands,  hands  on  hips,  bent  forward,  shot  through  with  pains.  When  at  last  he  has  calmed  down  enough  to  look  up,  Ben  is  a  hun-  dred  yards  away,  running  nicely,  a  crisp  white  figure  diminishing  in  the  night.  &quot;Rat!&quot;  Moses  calls,  mopping  his  brow  with  a  mohair  sleeve.  He's  wet  through.  He's  hot.  His  ankles  are  agony,  his  thighs  throb  with  aches.  &quot;I'm  not  running  with  you  again,&quot;  he  says  and,  pushing  up  his  sleeves  (Italian  mohair  for  running?  thinks  Moses.  Fool!  Fool!),  he  starts  again.  IT\xe2\x80\x99S  no  good.  He  can't  do  it.  Some-  thing's  gone  inside.  He  drops  down  to  a  jog,  but  even  that's  too  much.  He  wants  to  sit  down.  He  wants  to  lic  down.  He  wants  to  close  his  eyes.  Moses  has  run  this  course  with  his  brother  two  dozen  times  at  least,  but  it's  never  been  likethis  before.  Even  the  first  time,  completely  out  of  train-  ing,  he  managed  to  jog  home.  And  woke  up  the  next  morning  full  of  aches  and  pains.  But  during  the  course  of  the  day  they  lessened,  and  that  night  the  two  ran  again-a  little  faster  if  anything.  Brown's  Hill,  thinks  Moses.  Never  lose  control  on  Brown's  Hill,  It  is  all  he  can  do  to  walk,  past  the  quiet  gardens,  the  flickering  blue  win-  dows,  under  the  dark  trees,  but  it's  not  the  same  anymore,  it's  no  longer  that  special  world  made  for  brothers  to  run  in,  it's  not  peaceful  and  private,  it's  all  changed.  He  looks  up  and  sees  that  Ben  has  gone.  A  champion,  he  thinks,  but  doesn't  feel  happy.  He's  alone.  Stumbling  home,  he  feels,  all  at  once,  a  fool.  He  sees  himself-hypocrite!'-lec-  turing  his  brother  on  fair  play  and  sporting  style.  I  never  made  the  foot-  ball  team,  he  thinks.  I  was  always  the  last  one  they  picked  for  cricket.  Pop  goes  the  bat  and  out  of  the  sky  drops  the  shiny  red  ball,  right  to  him  with  slow-motion  ease,  -he  drops  it.  The  crowd  moans.  Moses  feels  his  face  lighting  up  with  shame,  and  is  thankful  for  the  dark.     He  stumbles  on,  the  sweat  on  his  face  cooling  down.  Ahead,  through  the  trees,  he  sees  the  main  road  again,  cars  and  trucks  rolling  past,  their  bodies  flashing  with  neon.  He  takes  a  breath,  then  another,  and  somehow  gets  run-  ning  again  for  this  last  stretch,  where  everyone  can  see.  It's  awful.  He  feels  a  thousand  years  old,  half  jogging,  half  limping,  a  ru-  ined,  broken  man.  He  is  about  to  give  up  and  walk  the  rest  of  the  way-  what  the  hell,  who  cares  about  the  Pincuses  and  Sharps  and  Goldbergs  of  this  world  who  might  be  watching?-  when  he  sees  his  brother  waiting  for  him  at  the  gate.  Ben  stands  there,  fresh  and  straight,  in  his  crisp  sporting  whites,  not  a  trace  of  the  night's  run  on  his  face.  Hey,  I've  never  played  him  Thelonious  Monk!  Moses  thinks.  He'll  love  him!  Ben  raises  both  arms  in  the  air,  like  a  Grand  Prix  judge  ready  to  bring  down  the  winning  flag,  and  not  to  disappoint  him,  his  heart  beating  to  burst,  Moses  finishes  strong,  the  last  surge  of  energy  sum-  moned  up  from  God  knows  where  carrying  him  all  the  way  home."