"THE  DOORBELL  (ADramaric  Exercorme  inm  tur  Manner  or  Haroun  PintER)  HE  action  of  the  play  takes  place  in  a  flat  offthe  Tottenham  Court  Road,  [REDACTED].  A  large  room  with  skylight.  Bare  white  walls.  Scat-  tered  chairs.  A  bright-red  bentwood  hatrack.  A  long  narrow  refectory  table  set  with  single  brass  candlestick.  Evening.  Winter.  Beatrice  and  Allen  enter  through  door,  stage  right.  They  are  in  their  for-  ties.  BrEatricE:  Mauve.  ALLEN:  Purple.  Pause.  BratricE:  Which  purple?  Light.  Dark.  Vivid.  Very  light.  Very  dark.  Royal.  Imperial.  Balkan.  Long  silence.  BratTricE:  Mauve.  (Hangs  up  het  and  coat.  Sits  in  chair.)  Every  bloke  in  town  thinks  mauve.  Charwomen  think  mauve.  Chimney  sweeps  think  mauve.  Turf  accountants  think  mauve.  The  Prime  Minister  thinks  mauve.  The  Maharaja  of  Boohoolie  thinks  mauve.  And  you  think  purple!  If  you  can't  think  mauve,  flake  off.  My  mum  warned  me  when  you  first  came  around.  Warned  me,  she  did.  Wrinkled  old  bag  was  so  messy  you  couldn't  tell  the  mum  from  the  mop.  But  she  warned  me.  Watch  out  for  him,  she  said.  He'll  twist  your  liver,  she  said.  He'll  pound  your  pancre-  as,  that  one  will.  Pause.  ALLEN:  Not  half  so  bad  as  all  that,  not  really  half  so  bad.  (Hangs  up  hat  and  coat,  sits  in  chair  at  far  end  of  room  from  Beatrice.)  Riding  around  in  the  tube,  at  least,  was  fun.  Reading  the  stations  was  fun.  Goodge  Street,  Warren  Street,  Euston,  Mornington  Crescent,  [REDACTED]  Town.  Adven-  ture,  you  said  then.  I'm  in  Arabia,  you  said.  I'm  on  a  flying  carpet!  (Pause)  You  were  perky.  When  the  announcer  cried  Mind  the  door!  Mind  the  door!,  you  stuck  out  your  little  tongue  and  said  Mind  the  door  yourself!  I  admired  that.  Within  my  limits  of  looking  at  the  matter,  I  thought  that  took  spunk.  (Long  pause)  Got  off  at  Tufnell  Park  and  had  tea  at  The  Striped  Carrot.  And  you  read  the  leaves.  Silence.  BEATRICE:  You  read  the  leaves.  You  always  read  the  leaves.  ALLEN:  Not  that  time,  I  didn't,  mate.  Not  at  The  Striped  Carrot.  If  you're  talking  about  Cuckfield  or  Leighton  Buzzard  or  High  Wycombe,  those  leaves  I  did  read.  Soggy  they  were,  too.  And  bad.  Especially  High  Wycombe.  Beware  aunts  and  uncles,  they  said.  Beware  sisters,  brothers,  cousins,  adopted  nieces,  foster  parents,  and  wards  ofthe  court.  Beware  the  whole  last  bloody  lot  of  them,  the  leaves  said.  (Pause)  I  can  remember  I  was  quite  shaken  by  the  reading.  Long,  long  silence.  BratricE:  The  nurse  was  kind.  She  had  a  dog  face.  Big  red  ears,  long  red  nose.  She  inspired  confidence.  I  felt  at  case.  When  she  asked  me  to  rinse,  I  rinsed.  When  she  said  open,  I  opened.  When  she  stuffed  the  cotton  wadding,  I  smiled.  The  surgeon  was  the  bad  one.  I  hated  the  surgeon.  Idisliked  his  man-  ner,  so  to  speak.  I  felt  threatened  in  his  presence.  Relax,  he  said.  This  will  only  take  a  minute,  he  said.  This  will  hurt  me  more  than  it  hurts  you,he  said.  I  wanted  to  scream,  do  you  understand  37  my  meaning?  I  wanted  to  flee.  I  want-  ed  to  kick  him  in  the  privates.  We  have  ways  of  making  you  laugh,  he  said.  They  say  I  laughed  a  great  deal  while  he  was  working  on  me.  They  say  he  worked  on  me  very  quickly.  He  must  have  gone  right  to  work  on  me.  He  was  very  deft  and  cunning.  I  think  he  was  Spanish.  Long  pause.  ALLEN:  What  became  of  the  tooth?  I  seem  to  remember  something  about  your  giving  me  the  tooth.  For  safe-  keeping.  Put  the  tooth  away,  you  said,  with  all  the  other  teeth.  Silt'nu\xe2\x80\x99.  BratricE:  I  had  a  special  feeling  for  teeth  in  those  days.  Molars,  pre-  molars,  canines,  incisors,  it  didn't  matter.  My  bureau  drawers  were  full  of  them.  They  represented  some-  thing  important  to  me.  What  I  am  driving  at  is  that  those  teeth  were  my  teeth,  they  weren't  somebody  else's  teeth.  They  weren't  the  landlord's  teeth.  They  weren't  Mum's  teeth,  you  can  count  on  that.  She  didn't  have  any  teeth.  Long,  long  silence.  ALLEN:  I  am  the  last  person  in  the  world  to  quarrel  about  small  things.  Such  as  me  reading  the  leaves  at  The  Striped  Carrot,  or  you  reading  the  leaves.  But  there  is  such  a  thing  as  ele-  mental  justice.  The  bedrock,  you  see.  The  base.  Either  a  thing  happened  or   " b"38  it  didn't.  No  two  ways  about  it.  Men  understand  these  matters.  I  am  inclined  to  be  set  in  my  ways  about  this  sort  of  thing.  I  don't  shift  ground  easily.  All  my  old  friends  know  this  about  me.  They  are  very  well  acquainted  with  this  side  of  my  character.  They  prefer  not  to  cross  me.  They  know  that  I  am  capable  of  giving  a  good  account  of  myself.  (Pause)  My  old  chums  would  call  something  a  footstool.  They  would  point  at  an  object  and  say,  That's  a  footstool.  Oh,  no,  I'd  say,  that's  an  ottoman.  And  then  I  would  look  round  the  room  very  slowly  to  see  if  I  had  convinced  them  or  not.  And  if  any-  body  still  thought  it  was  a  footstool  I  would  reluctantly  be  forced  toflatten  them.  Flatten  them  cold.  From  time  to  time,  we  would  get  off  into  history,  topics  of  cultural  interest,  broad  gen-  eral  reading,  wide  background,  prepa-  rationfor  life,  and  all  that.  Test  one's  mettle.  Jog  a  bit  about  the  mental  track.  Sweep  out  the  cobwebs,  you  understand  my  meaning?  I  would  give  them  a  very  simple  lesson.  Lads,  Pd  say,  the  order  of  succession  went  Edwy  the  Fair,  Edgar  the  Peaceful,  and  Ed-  ward  the  Martyr.  Some  camel  face  from  the  provinces  would  open  his  blooper  at  this  point  and  say,  Are  you  not  forgetting  Ethelred  the  Unready?  (Long  pause)  I  would  fracture  his  skull.  He  was  attempting  to  place  Ethel-  red  the  Unready  where  he  least  be-  longed.  I  can  cite  other  examples,  some  of  them  too  numerous  to  mention.  But  at  The  Striped  Carrot,  I  didn't  bring  my  glasses,  and  I  didn't  read  the  leaves.  Long  silence.  Beatrice:  I  suppose  it  wasn't  you  at  Clapham  Common,  when  we  walked  pastthe  cemetery  in  the  rain?  And  you  took  my  hand  and  I  went  wet  in-  side.  And  I  said,  There  will  always  be  room  for  you  in  the  family  plot,  Puss  in  Boots,  lying  beside  me  forever  under  the  elms  in  the  green  moonlight,  next  to  the  Skipper,  God  rest  him,  and  alongside  my  mum,  if  she'd  just  shove  off,  And  I  suppose  it  wasn't  you  muck-  ing  about  on  that  damp  slab,  breathing  heavy  and  saying  you  would  consider  it  an  honor  and  a  privilege  to  be  lying  with  me  under  this  sod  in  eternal  bliss,  surrounded  by  all  these  distinguished  cheesers.  Long  pause.  ALLEN:  It  wasn't  me  at  Clapham  Common.  It  was  me  in  the  train.  I  will  admit  that.  The  Night  Scotsman,  [REDACTED]  to  Edinburgh,  sleeping  cars,  and  all  that.  Slip  me  the  time,  you  said.  Just  slip  me  the  time.  Eleven-  thirty-five,  it  was.  King's  Cross.  Slip  me  the  time,  you  said.  You're  a  saucy  bugger,  you  said,  and  I  fell  out  of  the  upper  at  Doncaster.  Or  Selby.  Or  York.  Near  three  in  the  morning,  it  was.  We  reached  Edinburgh  at  six-   fifty-seven.  Slip  me  the  time,  you  said.  Silence.  BratricE:  That  wasn't  the  train,  and  it  wasn't  you.  That  was  the  Fish-  guard-to-Cork  ferry,  and  it  was  your  brother.  The  doorbell  rings.  seem  to  hear  it.  ALLEN:  I  suppose  it  wasn't  me  at  Brighton,  ch?  You  looked  like  a  sick  sparrow  then.  You  were  wafer  thin,.  Your  bones  jangled.  If  youhad  sneezed,  you  would  have  died.  (Rises,  walks  to  refectory  table,  picks  up  can-  dlestick,  holds  it  menacingly  over  Bea-  trice's  head.  Long  pause.  Allon  replaces  candlestick,  resumes  seat.)  I  fattened  you  up.  I  walked  you  up  and  down  the  beach  in  the  salt  air.  And  all  the  while  I  was  looking  into  your  face,  close  up.  Silf\xe2\x80\x99an.  BrEarricE:  That  was  Harry,  close  up,  at  Brighton.  That  wasn't  you.  I  ad-  mired  the  cut  of  Harry's  jib.  There  was  nothing  lumpy  about  Harry.  The  doorbell  rings.  Long,  long  silence.  ALLEN:  I  can  remember  the  Gov-  ernor  saying  to  me  when  I  was  a  nip-  per  that  he  didn't  think  much  of  me  in  general,  in  a  manner  of  speaking.  We  wereon  [REDACTED]  of  the  Green  Line.  Chiswick  or  Bromley,  Westerham  Hill  or  Osterley.  Maybe  Catford.  Maybe  Catford.  The  doorbell  rings.  At  Barking,  I  took  you  to  Dr.  Wu's  for  dinner.  Fu  sent  me,  I  said,  and  they  gave  us  a  table  near  the  parrot.  You  were  impressed.  Holus-bolus!  screamed  the  parrot.  You  were  amused.  You  gave  me  your  first  teeth.  I'm  glad  you  brought  me,  you  said.  I  don't  give  a  fig  about  Harry,  you  said.  I  ordered  the  won  ton  and  I  told  you  I  loved  you.  The  doorbell  rings.  I  ordered  the  egg  rolls  and  I  told  you  I  loved  you.  The  doorbell  rings.  I  ordered  the  lobster  Kew  with  bean  sprouts  and  tiny  button  mushrooms  and  I  told  you  I  loved  you.  _  The  doorbell  rings.  And  I  said,  Let's  settle  down.  (Pause)  Let's  builda  nest.  (Pause)  Let's  thatch  the  roof.  (Pause)  Let's  amalgamate  the  porridge.  The  doorbell  rings.  BrEatriceE:  That  wasn't  me  and  it  wasn't  you.  Allen  seizes  candlestick,  holds  it  aloft  menacingly.  ALLEN  (coolly  approaching  her):  I  don't  think  you  understand  my  mean-  ing.  They  do  not  The  doorbell  rings  continuously.  The  curtain  falls.  "