"A  KITCHEN  Rs.  QUAYLE  was  an  agreeable  M  and  reasonable  woman-in  her  private  estimation,  at  least-who  finally  lived  alone  after  a  full  life  of  raising  her  own  and  other  people's  families.  Little  by  little,  she  slipped  or  propelled  herself  into  some-  what  eccentric  habits,  especially  about  eating.  To  her,  no  matter  what  the  pattern  was  at  the  moment  it  seemed  logical.  For  a  time,  for  instance,  since  she  was  alone  and  could  not  puzzle  any-  one  but  herself,  she  arose  early,  made  herself  two  large  cups  of  strong  tea,  and  then  floated  through  the  morning  on  afar-niente  cloud  of  theine,  which  at  noon  she  cut  earthward  by  the  equal-  ly  deliberate  absorption  of  one-quarter  pound  of  raw  chopped  steak  and  a  few  stalks  of  celery.  And  so  on.  There  were  several  other  systems,  which  she  fol-  lowed  with  a  detached  fervor  and  dedi-  cation  until  something  new  sound-  ed  better,  although  she  never  really  asked  either  &quot;Better  than  what?&quot;  or  &quot;Better  for  what?,&quot;  being  in  excellent  health.  Once,  early  in  her  culinary  solitude,  there  was  a  period  of  mashing  three  ripe  bananas  with  some  agar-agar  and  milk  into  a  pale  porridge.  Mrs.  Quayle  did  not  find  out  for  several  years  that  this  was  the  way  she  had  permanently  alienated  a  close  friend,  who  had  had  to  face  her  morning  consump-  tion  of  such  a  chilly  mess  during  a  short  visit.  Her  \\  a  ((t  (\xc2\xa5  (\xc2\xae  own  intrinsic  naivete,  Mrs.  Quayle  decided,  was  perhaps  why  people  faded  out  of  her  life,  and  why  and  how,  on  one  weekend,  there  was  a  fi-  nal  adieu  to  her  two  dearest-her  last  daugh-  ter  and  small  grandson.  She  would  never  know  whether  she  offered  too  much  or,  on  the  other  hand,  too  little  during  those  packed,  bungled  hours.  In  her  peculiar  dietary  pattern,  it  was  a  gas-  tronomical  event  to  plan  for  someone  else's  hun-  ger.  By  now,  she  was  living  on  a  salutary  mish-  mash  of  green  beans,  zucchini,  parsley,  and  celery,  which  she  made  once  or  twice  a  day  in  a  pressure  cooker.  She  drained  the  juices  from  ALLEGORY  this  concoction  and  drank  them  when  she  felt  queer,  between  bowlsful  of  the  main  bulk.  She  believed,  tempo-  rarily  anyway,  that  she  got  everything  she  needed-whatever  that  was-from  this  regime,  and  she  lost  pounds  and  felt  rather  pure  and  noble,  But,  in  a  pseudo-protective  flutter,  the  day  be-  fore  her  darling  girl  was  to  arrive  for  what  might  bea  whole  weekend,  she  went  marketing  in  several  stores  she  had  long  ignored,  on  a  kind  of  spree.  She  bought  madly  and  stupidly,  more  than  could  possibly  be  eaten  in  a  week  by  five  people,  in  a  masochistic  flurry  of  wishful  child  feeding.  Her  daughter  was  already  set  in  her  own  paths  of  behavior,  staying  slim,  abjuring  fats-  sugars-starches  and  unobtrusively  watching  her  pocket  calorie  chart.  Mrs.  Quayle,  who  well  knew  this,  bought  cartons  full  of  affront  to  her  child's  philosophy,  so  that  by  the  time  the  little  family  was  together  there  was  a  newly  dusted  cookie  jar  full  of  strange  rich  temptations,  all  loaded  with  butter  and  sweetness;  there  was  bread  for  toast,  which  she  herself  had  not  eaten  for  months;  marmalade  and  strawberry  preserves  were  ready  to  the  hand.  In  the  crammed  icebox,  there  were  bowls  of  freshly  chopped  beef,  prawns  cooked  correctly  (which  is  to  say  in  the  femily  fashion)  and  peeled  and  ready,  fresh  &gt;  =s  A  -,  lth  Bz  afa     37  mayonnaise,  and  far  at  the  back  a  lost  bowl  of  her  own  mashed  vegetables.  Clean  lettuces  lay  ready  in  the  crisp-  ing  drawers.  Did  the  girl  want  coffee  over-roast,  freshly  ground,  decaffein-  ized,  powdered?  It  was  in  the  cup-  board.  There  was  milk,  both  homog-  enized  and  &quot;slim.&quot;  There  were  pounds  of  sweet  butter,  of  course.  And  on  the  sideboard  there  were  bananas  and  pa-  payas  and  lemons  and  tangelos  for  the  dear  little  boy.  There  was  a  box  of  Russian  mints.  There  were  little  new  pink  potatoes  to  cook  in  their  luminous  skins.  There  was  some  really  fine  garden-green  asparagus,  which  Mrs.  Quayle's  daughter  used  to  love,  and  then  a  block  of  excellent  Teleme  Jack  cheese-something  of  a  rarity.  There  were  fresh  bright  strawberries  in  a  bowl,  ready  to  be  washed  at  the  last  min-  ute,  but  in  case  the  girl's  old  passion  for  tapioca  pudding  still  waxed,  four  little  Chinese  bowls  of  it  were  ready,  too,  and  a  couple  of  bottles  of  white  wine,  the  favorite  ones,  and  a  Grigno-  lino  on  the  counter  when  the  time  came  for  a  beeuf  tartare  or  a  grilled  hamburger.  And  in  the  freezer  .  ..  The  whole  thing  was  sad.  What  was  Mrs.  Quayle  asking  for?  What-  ever  it  was,  she  got  it.  HE  bus  arrived  with  the  two  beautiful  young  creatures  on  it,  and  then,  after  some  communal  inter-    " b"38  courseor  at  least  exchange  of  quiet  talk,  but  not  a  great  deal-perhaps  six  hours  of  it--the  bus  went  off  again,  and  the  mother  walked  home  and  there  was  all  that  food,  and  although  she  knew  that  two  people  had  been  there,  she  could  see  little  sign  of  it.  In  the  icebox,  the  bowls  of  everything  still  sat.  All  the  fruit,  except  maybe  one  banana,  ripened  subtly  upon  the  side-  board.  Once  more,  guests  had  come  and  gone,  this  time  a  last  beloved  child  and  her  son,  but  often  before  a  lover,  a  fiendish  enemy,  a  mother,  someone  needed.  They,  too,  had  vanished,  long  before  Mrs.  Quayle  meant  them  to.  It  was  bewildering  to  her  as  she  sat  listen-  ing  to  the  icebox  that  hummed  in  the  kitchen.  She  wondered  what  started  the  whole  business.  How  did  it  end?  What  did  she  want  for  supper?  She  heard  again  the  bus  whining  off  into  the  dark,  and  saw  through  its  blue  window  glass  the  tiny  hand,  like  a  sea  anemone,  of  her  grandson.  Be-  hind  him,  a  more  earthly  flower,  was  her  dear  child,  the  purposeful  shadow  of  a  fine  relationship.  &quot;Until  soon,&quot;  she  called  into  the  glass.  They  made  mouths  back  at  her,  compassionately.  And  then  she  returned  to  the  confron-  tation  with  her  stores  of  unwanted,  un-  eaten,  unneeded  nourishment.  She  had  bought  them  willfully.  They  would  rot.  Her  girl  had  found  the  half-hidden  bowl  of  mashed  green  vegetables,  and  eaten  it  with  voluptuous  fuss  about  its  rare  fresh  taste,  its  good  feeling  within  her.  But  the  rest  of  the  provender  must  be  destroyed,  before  it  could  hurt  other  people  with  quick  sly  decay.  And  Mrs.  Quayle  herself  would  return  to  her  mishmash  three  times  a  day  and  the  greenish  broth  between  meals,  and  for-  get  the  finality  of  her  adieus,  for  as  if  her  bones  were  steel  cold  she  ac-  knowledged  that  the  girl  was  leaving  with  the  baby  to  join  life  again,  far  away,  where  other  things  would  feed  her.  The  suddenly  very  old-feeling  wom-  an  went  to  the  kitchen  to  clean  it  out,  to  ready  the  dead  supplies  for  the  morn-  ing's  collection  of  refuse,  to  make  herself  a  pot  of  vegetables  and  go  to  bed  witha  warm  stomach  and  copies  of  John  O'London's  and  Vogue.  In-  stead,  she  made  a  little  drink  first,  and  then,  without  paying  any  attention,  she  started  the  water  for  her  special  way  of  making  asparagus  on  toast,  somewhat  intricate  but  worth  the  bother,  and  a  meal  in  itself.  She  opened  the  bottle  of  Folle  Blanche,  and  put  it  back  in  the  icebox  to  wait  until  she  finished  her  gin-and-It,  and  then  set  a  place  nicely  at  the  kitchen  table,  with  two  wine-  glasses  in  case  she  wanted  a  little  Gri- gnolino  after  the  white.  She  made  a  salad  from  the  hearts  of  the  lettuces  she  had  cleaned.  (She  loved  the  hearts  best,  but  most  of  her  life  had  given  them  to  other  people  because  they  did,  too,  and  they  were  dependent  on  her.)  Then  she  deftly  put  together  a  beeuf  tartare  as  she  had  done  for  a  thousand  years.  She  would  boil  some  of  the  little  potatoes  tomorrow,  or  perhaps  tonight  toeat  cold....  All  the  time,  she  was  thinking  in  a  frozen  way  about  saying  goodbye  .  .  .  goodbyes.  As  she  chopped  herbs  and  sliced  as-  paragus  and  poured  boiling  water  and  added  the  magic  dash  of  brandy  to  the  mixed  soft  meat,  she  kept  thinking,  but  not  in  a  frantic  way  at  all,  about  never  seeing  two  more  people  again.  She  wondered  with  strange  calm  why  her  child  had  not  told  her  before  that  they  were  going  away,  flying  to  a  far  land  and  a  new  life  with  a  new  husband.  She  felt  sorry  that  they  had  been  so  hurried,  almost  evasive.  It  was  odd:  all  she  wanted  to  do  was  make  them  full  of  her  love,  her  food,  but  they  could  not  swallow  any  of  it.  Even  the  tiny  boy  ate  almost  nothing.  Her  girl  drank  tea,  and  smoked  many  cigarettes,  and  did  not  really  look  at  her.  Mrs.  Quayle  smiled  a  little,  recog-  nizing  that  she  seemed  to  have  absorbed  some  of  the  passive  detachment  of  the  past  hours  and  that  it  felt  good.  She  went  through  the  routine  movements  of  boiling  the  asparagus  three-times-  three,  an  old  trick,  and  all  the  little  saucepans  and  pots  were  at  their  right      temperatures  on  the  bright  stove.  A  plate  arranged  almost  correctly  in  the  Japanese  style  was  at  her  place  on  the  table,  with  five  prawns,  three  halves  of  green  olives,  and  a  curl  of  celery  upon  it  to  amuse  her.  The  beuf  tartare,  bound  with  olive  oil  and  seasoning,  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  in  its  half  shell  on  top  like  a  jaundiced  eye,  waited  on  the  sideboard.  There  was  buttered  toast  in  the  warm  oven,  for  the  asparagus.  Mrs.  Quayle  poured  Folle  Blanche  for  the  shrimps,  and  opened  the  Grignolino  for  the  meat,  perhaps  between  the  two  cold  courses?  And  then  there  were  the  little  puddings,  still  four  of  them-the  ones  her  last  girl  had  always  loved.  Or  perbaps  a  bowl  of  cool  strawberries?  Later,  she  would  make  coffee,  and  eat  one  of  the  candies,  a  tricky  litle  block  of  mint  and  black  chocolate.  She  thought  that  she  would  sit  a  long  time  at  the  table.  There  was  no  reason  not  to.  There  was  no-  body  wanting  to  get  up  early  in  the  morning  except  herself,  and  she  did  not  want  to,  truthfully.  Therewas  nobody  in  the  house  with  measles  or  a  cold,  to  be  listened  for  or  to  hear  Aer.  There  was,  in  fact,  nobody  to  cook  for,  not  even  herself.  In  all  this  facing  of  the  situation,  she  did  not  feel  any  self-pity,  which  was  a  proof  of  something-per-  haps  her  wisdom,  or  at  least  her  sense  of  self-preservation.  Suddenly  she  wondered  with  real  violence,  like  walking  head  on  into  a  closed  door  in  the  dark,  why  her  girl  had  not  told  her  before  about  that  new  " b' marriage  and  that  new  man  and  that  leaving.  It  seemed  very  selfish.  Mrs.  Quayle  permitted  herself  a  few  sec-  onds  of  anger,  and  then  she  looked  at  the  nicely  set  table  and  the  simmering  things  on  the  stove,  and  she  listened  to  the  icebox  humming  to  keep  the  other  supplies  dormant,  and  she  decided,  without  further  thought  or  doubt,  to  turn  off  the  whole  silly  business  and  go  to  bed.  This  is  what  she  did,  in  almost  no  time  at  all.  N  the  morning,  after  a  good  peaceful  sleep  except  for  one  small  dream  about  an  anemone  waving  this  way  and  that  way  in  blue  water  and  then  turn-  ing  into  a  mouth  that  wanted  to  eat  her,  she  made  herself  a  pressure  cooker  full  of  mishmash,  salvaged  most  of  the     mma  #..  HHA     unused  food  to  take  to  friends  who  were  getting  too  stiff  to  do  their  own  marketing,  and  read  a  new  book  about  a  system  to  hold  off  the  aging  process,  or  arthritis  or  cancer  or  almost  any-  thing,  by  theuse  of  iodides  in  the  diet.  She  must  get  some  Japaneseseaweed,  she  thought-go  to  the  sources  for  her  strengths  in  the  battle.  '