AROUND  THE  BEND  IN  BIGHTY  DAYS  V~IN  VISHNU  L  AND  FLL  TAKE  NO  STAND  HE  first  long  shadows  of  dusk  were  just  deepening  over  Jai-  pur's  Rambagh  Palace  Hotel  in  north-central  496e646961  when  an  elder-  ly  Chevrolet  saloon  wheezed  up  its  driveway,  coughed  to  a  stop,  and  de-  posited  two  passengers  under  the  porte-  coch\xc3\xa9re.  Those  who  had  witnessed  my  departure  from  the  Reform  Club  in  [REDACTED]  twenty-three  nights  earlier,  attended  by  a  female  valet  and  bent  on  reproducing  Phileas  Fogg's  sup-  posititious  circuit  of  the  globe,  would  have  derived  a  grim  chuckle  from  my  present  appearance.  Dehydrated  by  four  hours'  jouncing  over  the  blister-  ing,  eroded  moonscape  of  Rajasthan,  I  was  a  mirror  image  of  Walter  Hus-  ton  in  &quot;The  Treasure  of  the  Sierra  Madre&quot;-dishevelled,  sunken-eyed,  temper  honed  to  razor  edge.  Through-  out  the  two-hundred-mile  journey  from  New  496e646961,  the  driver  had  given  a  virtuoso  performance  on  his  horn,  tooting  bullock  carts,  cyclists,  and  pedestrians  out  of  his  way,  mean-  while  delivering  a  FitzPatrick  travel  talk  on  496e646961  the  Beautiful.  Unfortu-  nately,  my  sentiments  about  guided  tours  closely  approximated  those  of  Fogg.  &quot;Phileas  Fogg  had  no  desire  for  in-  formation,&quot;  Verne's  chronicle  stated.  &quot;He  was  not  travelling,  he  was  merely  describing  a  circumference.  He  was  a  solid  body  moving  through  an  orbit  around  the  terrestrial  globe,  in  obedience  to  the  laws  of  rational  mechanics.&quot;  My  body  was  less  solid  because  twenty-five  yearsolder  than  Fogg's,  and  the  mechanics  plainly  irrational,  for  I  had  digressed  widely  from  his  route  solely  to  include  a  ride  on  an  elephant.  To  compound  my  irritability,  more-  over,  Sally-Lou  Clay-  pool,  my  Passepartoute,  looked  as  fresh  as  a  daisy.  Her  lustrous  eyes,  her  statuesque  frame  exuded  rude  health-a  deliberate  simulation  of  energy  almost  as  if  to  proclaim  the  superior  hardihood  of  her  sex.  It  was  pure  women's  lib  in  the  middle  of  Nowheresville,  and  I  didn't  need  it.  Providentially,  the  maxim  that  it's  always  darkest  just  before  the  dawn  proved  true.  Before  you  could  say  &quot;bo&quot;  to  a  goose-a  formality  demanded  of  everyone  checking  into  the  Ram-  bagh  Palace,  whose  lobby  was  crowded  with  geese-I  was  chambered  in  the  very  suite  tenanted  by  the  former  Ma-  haraja,  the  kind  of  spread  Cecil  B.  De  Mille  used  to  conjure  up  at  his  most  feverish,  The  bedroom,  forty-  five  feet  long  and  lit  bytwin  crystal  chandeliers,  would  have  held  a  sena-  torial  caucus;  gold  taps  gleamed  rich-  ly  in  the  sunken  marble  tub  and  stall  shower,  ceiling  fans  revolved  blessedly  overhead.  Recumbent  in  my  bubble  bath  aromatic  with  the  perfumes  of  Araby  and  Ind,  I  felt  as  sybaritic  as  Gloria  Swanson  in  De  Mille's  version  of  &quot;The  Admirable  Crichton;&quot;  in  the  ascending  steam  I  saw  the  faces  of  Thomas  Meighan,  Lila  Lee,  Raymond  Hatton,  and  Theodore  Roberts  be-  nignly  regarding  me  and  healing  my  spirit.  In  such  surroundings,  one  tends  to  become  expansive,  and  when  a  fiercely  bearded  Sikh  bowed  in  a  bit  later  bearing  the  chotapeg  I  had  or-   dered,  I  was  tempted  to  fling  him  a  lakh  of  rupees  with  a  princely  gesture.  Not  knowing  how  many  rupees  there  were  to  a  lakh,  though,  I  had  to  con-  tent  myself  with  the  princely  gesture,  but  he  was  deeply  grateful  neverthe-  less.  Many  of  these  fellows  rarely  re-  ceive  more  than  a  kick  for  their  pains.  &quot;Many  of  us  fellows  rarely  receive  more  than  a  kick  for  our  pains,  Sahib,&quot;  he  said,  cringing.  &quot;Did  you  know  that,  revered  sir?&quot;  &quot;So  I  am  reliably  informed,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Watch  out  there-you're  spilling  the  soda  on  the  rug.  Kurdistan  carpets  don't  grow  on  trees.&quot;  &quot;Forgive  me,  Your  Highness,&quot;  he  stammered.  &quot;I  forgot  my  lowly  station.  In  my  sottishness,  I  obtruded  on  your  royal  meditations-&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  I  cut  him  short.  &quot;Now  buzz  off  and  let  me  drink  my  whiskey  in  peace.&quot;  Lucky  for  him  he  left  when  he  did,  else  he  might  have  got  a  kick  for  his  pains.  You  have  to  know  how  to  deal  with  these  fellows  A  vague  suspicion  that  we  had  fallen  into  one  of  Winsor  McCay's  Little  Nemo  fantasies  began  to  haunt  me  shortly  when  Sally-Lou  and  I  entered  the  dining  room.  Resonant  as  an  ar-  mory  and  thirty  feet  high,  it  contained  an  infinity  of  tables,  all  deserted  except  for  a  trio  of  blue-haired  Gorgons  with  plangent  New  Jersey  accents.  The  pair  of  496e646961n  youths  in  snowy  white  drill  serving  us  appeared  to  be  sunk  in  a  cataleptic  trance  that  nothing  could  penetrate.  They  twice  brought  us  steaming  apple  roly-poly  as  hors  d'oeuvres,  and  insist,  ently  plied  the  ladics  with  mulligatawny  soup,  though  they  had  long  since  concluded  their  meal.  At  length,  they  and  the  entire  kitchen  staff,  in  fact,  vanished,  presumably  into  a  state  of  karma  that  disdained  bodily  sustenance,  and  we  were  forced  to  fall  back  on  some  dispirited  graham  crackers  and  cashew  nuts  gleaned  from  our  luggage.  The  much  heralded  elephant  trip  took  place  next  morning  at  the  Amber  Palace,  another  onetime  royal  abode,  situated  on  a  crag  sev-  en  miles  distant  from  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Jaipur.  Far  below,  in  a  huddle  of  booths  displaying  postcards  and  souve-  nirs,  four  or  five  jumbos  were  somno-  lently  munching  a  breakfast  of  sugar-  cane  while  their  mahouts  bargained  with  a  dozen  4175737472616c6961n  and  German  tourists.  Our  beast,  a  female  named  Gulab-Kali,  or  Rosebud,  was  decked  out  with  a  fair  degree  of  splendor.  In  contrast  to  the  sleazy  side  curtains  on  her  fellows,  she  sporteda  red  velvet  saddle  blanket,  an  embossed  silver  head-  plate,  chain  anklets  and  earrings,  and  fake  wooden  tusks.  Though  she  wore  no  mascara  or  eye  liner,  her  trunk  was  rainbow-colored  with  various  intricate  designs,  and  altogether,  from  the  tip  of  her  howdah  to  her  three-inch  painted  toenails,  she  was  a  gorgeous  bit  of  ele-  phanthood.  To  add  further  panache  to  the  scene,  her  mahout  and  two  bearers  were  attired  in  gold  tunics  and  turbans,  one  of  the  latter  holding  aloft  a  gold  umbrella,  the  other  a  silver  sceptre.  Impressive  as  all  the  panoply  was,  how-  ever,  I  was  attacked  by  sudden  mis-  givings.  &quot;Look  here,&quot;  I  said  to  the  overseer  in  charge  of  the  troupe.  &quot;I  don't  mind  a  touch  of  [REDACTED],  but  won't  this  gold  fringe  and  stuff  impede  our  progress  through  the  bush?&quot;  &quot;What  bush  is  that,  gentleman?&quot;  he  asked,  blinking.  &quot;Why,  dash  it  all,  whatever  was  laid  on  for  us  to  traverse,&quot;  I  sputtered.  &quot;Mr.  Mookerjee  in  [REDACTED]  promised  us  a  first-class  trip  through  impenetrable  jungle  as  previously  supplied  to  Phileas  Fogg  of  No.  7  Savile  Row,  Burlington  Gardens.  Where  is  it,  man?  Speak  [REDACTED];  He  stifled  a  yawn.  &quot;No  impenetra-  ble  jungles  around  here,  Mister,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;This  is  Maharaja  Special  Pony  Ride-two  blocks  up  hill,  five-minute  tour  through  palace,  two  blocks  down.  A  hundred  fifty  rupees,  please,  plus  eight  annas  extra  for  popcorn.&quot;  Had  my  wattle  not  turned  pink  with  rage  and  my  voice  become  in-  articulate,  I  daresay  I  could  have  ham-  mered  some  sense  into  the  rascal,  but  under  the  circumstances  one  had  to  ac-  cept  the  situation.  We  therefore  as-  cended  a  stone  upping  block  and  dis-  posed  ourselves  in  the  howdah,  and,  animated  by  a  thrust  from  the  mahout,  Rosebud  slowly  shambled  forward.  She  had  hardly  gone  fifteen  feet  before  I  realized  thatof  all  the  imbroglios  I  had  ever  got  myself  into  this  was  the  most  terrifying.  Each  step  involved  a  sicken-  ing  circular  lurch,  exactly  as  though  we  were  circus  acrobats  pinned  to  a  sway  pole.  The  sky  was  blotted  out  by  a  shimmering  television  test  pattern,  a  vast  nauseaenveloped  me,  and  I  clung  for  dear  life  to  the  iron  bar  securing  us  in  place.    &quot;Stop!  Stop!&quot;  I  shouted.  The  ma-  hout  spun  around,  overcome  by  alarm.  &quot;Your  animal's  run  amok-she's  fix-  ing  to  shake  this  entire  shooting  match  off  her  back!&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  ridiculous,&quot;  Sally-Lou  said  impatiently.  &quot;She's  a  perfect  pet-  aren't  you,  Rosebud?&quot;  She  craned  over  and  cooed  into  the  creature's  ear.  &quot;Come  on,  honey,  turn  around-that's  an  angel.&quot;  Rosebud,  responding  to  her  soft  en-  dearments,  emitted  a  sound  between  a  whinny  and  a  bray  and  executed  a  curtsy,  tipping  the  howdah  into  an  angle  steeper  than  the  deck  of  the  Ti-  tanic.  Dizzied  by  the  abrupt  plunge,  I  slid  into  the  bottom  of  the  litter,  from  whose  depths  I  just  managed  to  croak  out  an  offer  of  another  lakh  of  rupees  to  return  me  to  terra  firma.  The  bribe  had  its  desired  effect,  and  in  jig  time  I  was  an  earthling  again,  scarcely  able  to  credit  my  deliverance.  Sally-Lou,  of  course,  felt  obliged  to  demonstrate  how  pusillanimous  I  was,  and  proceeded  on  the  junket  with  a  great  show  of  bra-  vado.  I  wrapped  myself  in  a  mantle  of  dignity  and  watched  her  go,  my  lip  curled  in  a  cold,  contemptuous  smile.  To  me  her  silly  little  heroics  were  so  much  swagger,  designed  to  impress  a  few  credulous  natives.  Brief  and  costly  though  the  experience,  it  was  of  inesti-  mable  value  to  me.  Hitherto,  three  principles  exposited  by  Nelson  Algren  had  ruled  my  life:  Never  play  cards  with  any  man  named  Doc;  never  eat  at  any  place  named  Mom's;  and  never  sleep  with  anyone  whose  troubles  are  worse  than  your  own.  To  theseI  now  added  a  fourth.  Never  again  would  I  be  tempted  aboard  a  quadruped  of  any  sort,  however  seemingly  docile-not  even  those  on  a  merry-go-round.  DURING  the  endless  trudge  back  to  New  496e646961,  the  sweltering  overnight  stop  there,  and  the  successive  transit  to  496e646961,  I  had  ample  oppor-  tunity  to  reflect  on  thesea  journey  ahead  of  us.  The  prospect  did  not  whet  my  appetite:  Eight  days  across  the  Bay  of  Bengal  on  the  S.S.  Moribunda-  somehow  it  had  an  ominous  ring,  a  forewarning  of  disaster.  Headlines  per-  sistently  formed  in  my  imagination:  \xc2\xa9FIERY  HOLOCAUST  SWEEPS  INDIAN  VESSEL&quot;  ...  &quot;GIANT  SQUID  ENGULFS  CROWDED  LINER&quot;  ...  &quot;sUrRvIvORS  SOUGHT  IN  BAFFLING  SEA  HORROR.  Penang  (Reuters)-In  a  mystery  ni-  " b"34  valling  that  of  the  Mary  Celeste,  the  steamship  Moribunda  was  today  found  floating  ...&quot;  &quot;Are  you  worried  about  some-  thing?&quot;  Sally-Lou  queried  as  a  taxi  ferried  us  through  the  sprawling  inner  suburbs  of  496e646961  to  our  hotel.  &quot;You  look-well,  so  subdued.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  [REDACTED];  Isaid  lightly.  &quot;I'm  as  happy  as  a  lark.  I  was  merely  specu-  lating  how  Houdini  ever  gotout  of  that  box.&quot;  &quot;Houdini?&quot;  She  blinked  at  me.  &quot;I  don't  get  it.  Who  was  he-a  Yoga,  like?&quot;  &quot;No,  just  somebody  they  used  to  handcuff  and  stuff  into  a  box  that  was  then  flung  into  the  ocean.  He  always  escaped  in  less  than  two  minutes.&quot;  &quot;What  ever  made  you  think  of  that?&quot;  &quot;Er-nothing,  really.  Just  musing  about  the  voyage  tomorrow,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Gee,  I  can  hardly  wait  for  the  food  we'll  be  given  on  board-mutton  curry  and  cold,  greasy  chapatties.  I  never  can  get  my  fill  of  cold,  greasy  chapatties.&quot;  &quot;Listen,&quot;  she  said,  pursing  her  lips.  &quot;I  told  you  to  wear  a  hat  back  there  in  Jaipur.  You've  had  too  much  sun.&quot;  Oho,  I  thought  to  myself-more  women's  lib.  Yesterday  she  showed  off  her  prowess  with  elephants,  today  she's  a  world-famous  brain  surgeon  diag-  nosing  people's  ailments.  Yet  why  should  Ibe  surprised?  It  confirmed  what  I  had  always  noticed  about  wom-  en  travelling  in  [REDACTED].  Unable  to  withstand  the  crises,  the  hardships  that  men  could,  they  took  refuge  in  fan-  tasy-became  bossy,  authoritative,  self-  pronounced  experts-and  thus  lost  all  their  femininity.  A  pity,  because  ew  fond  they  were  decent  creatures,  and,  if  properly  trained,  as  capable  of  loy-  alty  as  a  good  dog.  For  those  whose  rarefied  tastes  thrive  on  the  odor  of  imperial  decay,  there  is  much  to  savor  in  496e646961-a  museum  stocked  with  cannonballs  and  tarnished  uniforms  from  the  days  of  [REDACTED]  Company,  an  English  depart-  ment  store  the  size  of  a  mid-Victorian  railway  station  where  oatmeal  and  tinned  pilchards  are  available,  and  a  church  containing  the  marriage  cer-  tificate  of  Elihu  Yale.  Philistine  that  I  am,  however,  such  survivals  act  on  me  like  a  barbiturate,  so  strongly  that  when  the  Moribunda's  whistle  sounded  at  last,  signalizing  our  departure  from  496e646961,  I  was  still  too  benumbed  to  ex-  press  my  gratification,  What  an  ex-  perience  it  had  been  to  rub  elbows  with  its  colorful  inhabitants,  to  observe  their  customs  at  work  and  at  play,  to  bask,  albeit  hurriedly,  in  its  age-old  culture.  And  what  an  eternity  it  would  be,  I   -StanuEy  PuumLy  prayed  as  I  had  twice  in  the  past,  be-  fore  I  set  foot  on  its  shores  again.  Oth-  ers  had  managed  to  escape  with  only  one  trip  to  496e646961,  but  some  monstrous  quirk  always  brought  me  back.  How  could  anyone  be  such  a  schlemiel?  \xe2\x80\x9cNAGAPATTINAM,\xe2\x80\x9d  I  said  as  Ilay  gasping  in  my  stateroom  that  fearful  second  afternoon  of  the  voy-  age.  &quot;Naga-pat-ti-nam,&quot;  I  repeated,  rolling  the  syllables  over  my  tongue.  I  wanted  to  remember  this  place  where,  ever  since  daybreak,  the  Mori-  bunda  had  stood  offshore  in  the  breath-  less  heat  loading  onions  from  swarms  of  tenders  tied  alongside.  Baskets  and  bundles  of  onions  by  the  thousand  were  swung  aboard  in  the  nets;  the  shriek  of  the  winches,  coupled  with  the  boat-  men's  cries  and  overspread  by  the  stupefying  smell,  boggled  the  mind.  It  was  inconceivable  that  we  should  be  piling  up  this  avalanche  of  onions  to  discharge  on  Malaya,  unless  perhaps  as  an  act  of  vengeance.  But  then,  as  I  was  soon  to  discover,  everything  about  the  ship  was  inconceivable-the  roach-  ridden  cabins,  the  rats  that  nibbled  the  soap  in  the  washstands,  the  total  disre-  gard  for  lifeboat  drill,  the  496e646961n  rock  and  roll  that  blared  eternally  from  the     public-address  system.  'The  premoni-  tions  I  had  had  about  the  food,  as  it  turned  out,  were  unjustified.  I  wes  able  to  get  my  fill  of  cold,  greasy  chapatties,  as  well  as  of  the  handful  of  Westerners  who  clung  together  on  the  crossing.  There  were  seven  of  them  at  our  table-a  honeymooning  Canadian  couple,  two  faceless  Scottish  spinsters  bound  for  [REDACTED],  apair  of  deraci-  nated  hippies,  and  a  loose-wristed  Illi-  nois  aesthete  fresh  from  a  Wander-  jahr  in  Katmandu.  Since  we  lacked  any  common  bond  except  revulsion  for  our  victuals,  dialogue  on  the  whole  was  sparse,  and  Wildean  epigrams  of  the  sort  that  used  to  dazzle  the  Domi-  no  Room  of  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  Royal  could  be  counted  on  the  fingers  of  one  hand.  Still,  now  and  then  the  conversation  became  cultural,  as  when,  one  evening,  the  Canadian  benedict  began  extolling  Jacqueline  Susann's  &quot;The  Love  Ma-  chine.&quot;  &quot;She's  really  gifted,&quot;  the  Canadian  declared,  his  adenoids  shining  in  ad-  miration.  &quot;She  has  this  marvellous  grasp  of  feminine  psychology-it's  un-  canny.&quot;  He  turned  to  me.  &quot;Now,  you're  a  writer.  Which  one  do  you  think  is  more  talented-Jacqueline  Susann  or  Harold  Robbins?&quot;  &quot;Gosh,  who  can  say?&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;It's  like  trying  to  compare  Balzac  with  Tolstoy.  I  mean,  they're  two  colossi.  And  then  there's  Henry  Sut-  ton,  who  wrote  'The  Exhibitionist'-  that  makes  three  colossi.  I  wouldn't  know  which  is  the  greatest.&quot;  &quot;I  believe  she's  the  most  success-     " b"  ful,&quot;  his  wife  stated.  &quot;How  much  does  she  make  a  year?&quot;  &quot;Twelve  dollars,&quot;  I  said.  I  was  ready  to  jump  overboard.  &quot;You  can't  be  serious,  credulously.  &quot;I  am,  my  dear-I  never  joke  about  such  things.&quot;  I  got  up.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  I  said  thickly.  &quot;I-it  must  be  the  chlo-  rine  in  the  drinking  water.  I  need  a  breath  of  air.&quot;  But  even  as  I  said  it  I  knew  the  fu-  tility  of  any  hope  of  relief  as  the  Mori-  bunda  inched  its  way  across  the  In-  dian  Ocean  day  after  day  under  the  remorseless  sun.  Time  lost  all  mean-  ing;  everything  was  submerged  in  the  unceasing  pandemonium  of  rock  and  roll,  the  hum  of  roaches  chewing  the  bedclothes,  and  the  drone  of  the  en-  gines.  Mealtime  was  a  charade,  a  for-  mal  ritual  in  which  we  participated  like  actors  eating  make-believe  food  on  the  stage.  Even  the  waiters  joined  in  the  dumbshow,  exhibiting  the  viands  and  7  she  said  in-  whisking  them  away  in  the  same  swift  gesture.  Intentionally  or  not,  the  Mori-  bunda  had  evolved  a  consummate  re-  ducing  diet-indeed,  an  almost  hazard-  ous  one,  for  when  I  surveyed  my  face  in  the  flyblown  looking  glass  in  my  cabin  I  was  reminded  of  the  leaflet  for  J.  Collis  Browne's  Compound,  a  specif-  ic  greatly  favored  in  [REDACTED],  which  I  had  brought  with  me.  Describing  the  inroads  of  dysentery  on  British  troops  during  the  Boer  War,  it  stated  sono-  rously,  &quot;Gaunter  and  gaunter  grew  the  soldiers  of  the  Queen.&quot;  &quot;What  lovely  hollow  cheeks  you  have,  Mr.  Gaunter,&quot;  I  told  myself.  &quot;A  few  more  days  aboard  this  ship  and  they'll  be  using  that  head  of  yours  for  a  tobacco  jar.&quot;  Luckily,  boundless  as  is  the  capacity  of  the  human  body  for  punishment,  the  Bay  of  Bengal  does  have  limits.  T  wo  days  after  rounding  the  Andaman  [REDACTED],  immortalized  by  Conan  Doyle  in  &quot;The  Sign  of  Four&quot;-a  lo-  cale  singularly  apropos  in  the  circum-  stances-we  steamed  into  Penang,  a  stone's  throw  from  [REDACTED],  our  des-  tination.  I  leaned  on  the  ship's  rail,  watching  the  harbor  coolies  unload  our  pungent  cargo  and  wondering  if  they  realized  what  we  had  gone  through  to  deliver  it,  Could  they  possibly  encom-  pass  the  privations  we  had  endured,  the  fiery  holocausts  and  giant  squids  we  had  eluded?  Perhaps  I  should  go  down  and  enlighten  them-even  take  up  a  small  collection  in  my  behalf.  It  was  a  temp-  tation,  but  I  dismissed  it.  Once,  many  years  before,  I  had  set  foot  in  this  port  and  been  trapped  there  for  five  weeks-  an  episode  beside  which  the  voyage  of  the  Moribunda  was  peaches  and  cream.  And  so,  as  the  effluvium  rose  over  the  green  hills  of  Malaya,  I  said  &quot;Aloha&quot;  to  Penang  with  a  schmalz  worthy  of  FitzPatrick,  and  buoyantly  went  back  to  the  rock  and  roll. "