"ON  THE  ROAD,  ALMOST  H,  yes,  we're  going  down  the  road  back  to  the  country,  you  andme,  baby,  got  to  be  free,  got  to  learn  how  to  feel,  on  a  water  bed  full  of  good  hot  oatmeal,  but  in  the  meantime  we're  stuck  here  in  the  city,  I  hate  my  job  and  our  apartment,  and  life,  in  general,  is  pretty  heavy.  They  say  we're  too  young  to  be  in  love,  but  I'm  twenty-nine,  you're  twenty-seven,  we  have  a  kid  (age  three),  so  what  do  they  know?  They're  a  bunch  of  creeps  anyway,  and  do  crystal  beams  illumi-  nate  our  minds  ornot?  I  think  they  do,  and  when  I  stand  by  the  river  flowing  and  see  the  sparkling  reflections  of  our  dreams  I  know  that  everything,  it's  go-  ing  to  be  O.K.  In  the  moonlight  silver  stillness  of  the  morning,  I  wake  up  and  brush  my  teeth  and  go  to  work  at  the  radio  sta-  tion,  playing  records  and  giving  weath-  er  reports.  Isay,  &quot;It's  going  to  snow  today,&quot;  and  it  does,  but  I  don't  care,  I  am  so  lonely.  Nobody  to  talk  with  and  nobody  knows  who  I  am  really.  They  all  think  I'm  a  top  dise  jockey.  They  say,  &quot;He  must  be  so  happy.&quot;  They  can't  see  my  tears  are  falling  on  the  turn-  table.  Just  a  clown  sitting  around  and  earning  lots  of  money  trying  to  make  the  whole  town  think  it's  funny,  but  in  my  heart  I  know  it's  only  a  show  and  I'm  playing  the  part  of  the  Fool  on  the  Radio.  I  look  at  the  clock  through  the  stu-  dio  glass  and  I  see  that  the  time,  it  is  passing.  7:10-let  me  tell  you  once  again  about  this  skin  cream,  the  American  Dream;  it  is  powerful  and  long-lasting,  ten  times  better,  helps  you  get  it  all  together,  I  use  it  all  the  time,  and  it's  7:09.  I  gulp  down  my  coffee  and  a  candy  bar  with  almonds  in  it,  and  the  tele-  phone  is  ringing  eighty  times  a  minute.  Someone  calls  to  say,  &quot;You're  my  friend  and  you  really  make  my  day.&quot;  I'd  like  to  reply,  &quot;Don't  you  see  I'm  grieving,  for  I  know  my  train  is  leav-  ing  and  I'm  going  to  die  if  I  can't  get  away?&quot;  I  love  my  fans,  but  they  don't  understand  me.  A  radio  personality  with  his  own  show  in  a  major  market,  but  all  I  want  to  be  is  an  ordinary  farmer  and  grow  a  little  wheat-  enough  to  make  a  loaf  of  bread  or  a  couplepancakes,  maybe.  Baby,  we've  made  some  mistakes,  but  there's  where  we're  going,  someplace  far  away  where  the  dewy  grasses  touch  our  minds  with  wonder  and  the  dawn  comes  up  like  thunder  out  of  4368696e61  'cross  the  bay. "