  A  QUEEN  REMEMBERED     long  ago  that  I  cannot  remember  the  date  of  the  year.  We  had  finished  our  dinner  and  were  drinking  coffee  in  the  upper  room  when  we  fell  to  making  New  Year's  resolutions-a  calm  process,  since  we  had  often  made  them  before.  We  must  keep  a  register  of  books  we'd  lent,  and  consult  it  in  order  to  reclaim  them;  we  must  tidy  the  garage,  throw  away  all  the  old  paintpots,  buy  some  new  wastepaper  baskets,  invite  the  Harrisons  to  a  meal.  &quot;One  thing  we  must  do,&quot;  said  Valentine  with  decision.  &quot;We  must  buy  some  peat  blocks.  We  always  talk  about  peat  fires.  We  never  have  them.  This  year,  we  will.&quot;  &quot;But  where  from?  Coal  merchants  don't  sell  peat  blocks.  Peat  just  means  azaleas  in  Dorset.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  there's  another  thing  we  must  have.  When  does  one  plant  azaleas?&quot;  &quot;Not  till  the  frost  is  out  of  the  ground.&quot;  &quot;Good.  That  leaves  tomorrow.  Tomorrow  we  will  drive  into  Somer-  set  and  buy  a  load  of  peat.&quot;  It  was  stimulating  to  have  a  New  Year's  resolution  which  could  be  put  into  effect  at  once.  On  New  Year's  Day  we  emptied  the  hold  of  the  car,  studied  the  road  map,  and  drove  to-  ward  Sedgemoor.  We  had  learned  from  other  pursuits  of  the  attainable  that  in  the  West  of  England  it  does  not  do  to  ask  point-  blank  for  information.  It  is  proverbial  that  if  a  stranger  in  a  car  halts  to  ask  a  pedestrian  the  way  to  such-and-such,  the  pedestrian  cups  a  deaf  ear,  puts  on  a  grieved,  thwarted  expression,  and  walks  away;  or  replies,  after  the  question  has  been  repeated  several  times,  that  he  really  can't  say,  he  is  a  stran-  ger  himself.  In  neither  case  is  this  true.  The  cupped  ear  catches  ev-  ery  word  you  say,  the  stranger  is  a  hardened  inhabitant.  It  is  you,  not  your  inquiry,  which  is  of  interest.  As  they  don't  like  to  appear  inquisi-  tive,  they  learn  what  they  can  about  you  by  observation.  Only  when  you  have  acquired  a  certain  mossiness  as  a  familiar  object  can  you  expect  to  be  answered.  Knowing  this,  we  entered  a  roadside  inn  called  the  Volunteer  and  asked  for  bread  and  cheese  and  two  half  pints  of  draft  beer.  There  we  sat,  wait-  ing  for  the  moss  to  grow  and  seeing  from  the  window  how  incoming  custom-  ers  stopped  for  a  good  look  at  our  car.  A  bold  spirit  addressed  us.  &quot;Come  from  far?&quot;  &quot;From  near  Dorchester.&quot;  (‘Ah  39  IT  was  New  Year's  Eve-and  so     &quot;We  are  looking  for  somewhere  where  we  can  buy  peat.  Do  you  hap-  pen  to  know-&quot;  There  was  a  dis-  claiming  silence.  I  went  no  further.  A  voice  at  the  back  of  the  room  said,  &quot;What  about  Bert  Cary?&quot;  We  said  nothing.  We  had  notbeen  addressed.  &quot;Or  young  Damon?&quot;  &quot;May  be  he  might.  But  he's  in  Bridgwater  on  Fridays.&quot;  &quot;Always  is.  With  his  lorry.&quot;  &quot;What  about  his  mother,  though?&quot;  Opinion  seemed  pretty  evenly  divid-  ed  as  to  whether  Mrs.  Damon  might  or  mightn't.  All  this  time  a  peat  fire  was  noiseless  ly  burning  on  the  hearth,  filling  the  room  with  its  smell  of  moldered  sum-  mers.  Valentine  now  struck  like  a  falcon.  &quot;Where  does  Mrs.  Damon  live?&quot;  Startled  into  compliance,  the  cus-  tomers  of  the  Volunteer  directed  us  to  Mrs.  Damon's  house,  which  we  couldn't  miss  if  we  turned  to  the  left  a  couple  of  miles  or  so  short  ofthe  old  pumping  station.  &quot;Your  hair  smells  of  peat  already,&quot;  said  Valentine  as  I  got  into  the  car.  &quot;Peat  and  beer.&quot;  It  has  always  seemed  to  me  that  skies  are  colored  by  the  soil  beneath.  We  had  begun  our  journey  under  the  sharp  forget-me-not  blue  of  chalk.  Now  we  travelled  under  a  web  of  smoky  bronze  and  cobalt.  The  road  was  ditched  on  either  side  and  pollard  willows  grew  along  the  banks.  It  was  a  landscape  in  which  it  was  impossible  to  judge  dis-  tance.  Its  measure  was  duration,  not  miles.  We  had  driven  for  a  long  way  be-  fore  a  huddle  of  bricks  and  timbers  told  us  that  we  should  have  turned  off  to  the  left  a  couple  of  miles  before.  We  drove  back  and  took  the  turning  into  a  narrow  track.  Like  the  road  we  had  left,  it  was  straight,  ditched,  wil-  lowed,  and  featureless,  except  for  be-  ing  deeply  rutted.  Encouraged  by  this  assurance  of  young  Damon's  lorry,  we  drove  on  and  on.  A  hen  crossed  the  track.  &quot;Where  there  is  a  hen  there  is  a  wom-  an,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  can't  be  far  off  now.&quot;  &quot;It  looked  to  me  like  a  lost  hen,&quot;  said  Valentine.  I  replied  that  it  couldn't  be  lost  unless  it  had  a  home  to  stray  from.  We  had  branched  from  hens  to  the  dubious  efficacy  of  scholastic  logic  when  Mrs.  Damon's  house  started  up  behind  the  willows.  The  ruts  led  us  over  a  plank  bridge  into  a  yard  with  some  sheds  standing  about  in  it.  They  looked  casual  and  dilapidated.  Not  so  the  wom-  an  who  came  out  ofthe  house,  She  was  tall  and  thin.  She  held  herself  erect  and  wore  a  long  white  apron.  Her  grey  hair  was  fastened  in  a  neat  knob.  She  was  Mrs.  Damon.  I1  explained.  She  listened  to  me  and  looked  at  Valentine.  This  was  nothing  out  of  the  common.  I  continued  to  ex-  plain  and  Mrs.  Damon  continued  to  look.  Seeing  that  I  was  getting  no-  where,  Valentine  also  began  to  explain.  Mrs.  Damon  came  back  to  real  life,  smoothed  her  apron,  and  asked  how  much  peat  we  wanted.  As  much  as  we  could  get  into  the  car,  Valentine  said.  Mrs.  Damon  glanced  at  the  two-seater.  With  an  air  of  indulgent  gravity,  she  opened  the  peat  shed  and  hauled  out  a  sack,  remarking  that  we  would  get  more  in  if  we  packed  them  by  hand.  Together  we  packed  the  peats  into  the  hold  and  behind  the  seats,  and  Mrs.  Damon's  apron  remained  as  white  as  ever,  and  her  lips  fluttered  as  she  kept  her  count.  All  this  took  some  time,  as  she  and  Valentine  were  both  deter-  mined  to  get  in  as  many  peatsas  possi-  ble.  When  the  last  blocks  had  been  fitted  in,  we  stood  back  and  surveyed  each  other,  as  fellow-workers  do.  Sud-  denly  Mrs.  Damon  said  to  Valentine,  &quot;You  don't  come  from  hereabout,  do  YOU?  &quot;  &quot;From  Dorset.  In  that  sombre,  brooding  landscape,  Dorset  seemed  far  distant;  but  not  dis-  tant  enough  to  satisfy  Mrs.  Damon's  conjecture,  &quot;Not  born  there,  though?&quot;  &quot;No.  I  was  born  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;'That's  what  I  thought.  Where-  abouts  in  [REDACTED];  &quot;In  Brook  Street.&quot;  &quot;Just  so.  Runs  into  [REDACTED]  Lane,  doesn't  it?  The  moment  you  got  out  of  the  car,  I  said  to  myself,  'That's  the  West  End.  It  was  something  I  never  thought  to  see  again.&quot;  &quot;So  you're  a  43616e616461er,  too?&quot;  &quot;Not  born.  But  I  was  in  service  there  for  twelve  years.  The  best  years  of  my  life.  It  was  a  wonderful  place-  two  in  family  and  seven  servants  kept.  Porchester  Terrace.  Then  I  went  too  far  on  Armistice  Night,  and  had  to  marry  him,  and  came  down  here.  And  here  I've  been  ever  since.  I  suppose  I  wouldn't  know  [REDACTED]  again  if  I  saw  it  now.&quot;  &quot;The  [REDACTED]'s  much  the  same-  though  if  you  saw  some  of  the  riders  in  Rotten  Row  they'd  be  a  surprise  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Never  is  what  it  used  to  be-that's  what  they  say  about  [REDACTED],  you  know.  Mrs.  Jobling,  she  was  the  housekeeper,  used  to  talk  about  her  first  place.  There  was  a  golden  foun-  tain  in  the  hall,  and  when  the  family   had  their  dinner  parties  and  receptions  it  was  turned  on  and  sprayed  out  eau  de  cologne.  But  that  was  in  the  old  Queen's  days.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  ever  see  her?&quot;  &quot;No,  But  I've  still  got  my  Diamond  Jubilee  mug  they  gave  at  the  school  treat.  All  these  years  I've  treasured  it.  And  I've  left  it  in  my  will  that  it's  to  be  buried  with  me.&quot;  A  moist  wind  had  risen  and  swayed  the  willow  boughs.  Mrs.  Damon's  hens  were  gathering  round  her.  It  was  a  strange  place  in  which  to  be  hearing  about  golden  fountains,  I  thought.  Mrs.  Damon  was  talking  on.  &quot;A  good  Queen,  if  ever  there  was  |  one.  And  over  and  above,  she  was  a  good  woman.  And  the  faithfulest  of  widows.  I  never  look  at  my  mug  but  I  think  of  her  driving  to  the  Albert  Memorial.  Every  afternoon  she  drove  out  in  her  closed  carriage,  with  a  lady-  in-waitingor  a  princess  beside  her,  drove  from  [REDACTED]  along  Knightsbridge  as  far  as  the  Albert  Memorial.  And  there  the  carriage  would  stop,  and  she'd  look  at  it-look  at  it  with  all  her  heart  and  soul.  And  then  she'd  signal  and  be  driven  back,  hiding  her  face  behind  a  white  hand-  kerchief  with  a  black  border.  There's  love  for  you.  There's  faithfulness.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  indeed.&quot;  We  paid,  and  drove  away.  After  a  pause,  I  began:  And  out  of  his  grave  there  grew  a  rose,  And  out  of  her  grave  a  briar  ...  Valentine  took  it  up:  And  ever  they  grew  and  ever  they  grew  Till  they  could  grow  no  higher,  And  twined  themselves  in  a  true  lovers'  knot  For  all  folk  to  admire.  Forgetting  our  errand,  forgetting  our  route,  we  marvelled  at  this  en-  counter  with  the  authentic  voice  of  balladry  which  had  installed  Lytton  Strachey's  Victoria,  Victoria  of  the  sneers,  among  the  Good  Queens  of  legend:  Eleanor  of  the  Crosses,  Queen  Anne  of  the  lace,  Berengaria  who  sucked  the  poisoned  wound,  Philippa  whose  great  belly  shielded  the  burghers  of  Calais.  Talking  of  these,  speculating  about  Mrs.  Damon,  we  lost  our  way  twice  over  in  the  gathering  dusk  before  we  reached  home. 