"THE  EMERGENCY  Ki  EING  an  Army  doctor  isn't  like  anything  else,&quot;  the  medical  captain  said  to  the  new  medi-  cal  sublicutenant,  a  young  manwho  had  just  arrived  in  a  winter  uniform,  though  it  was  June  in  Tolmezzo,  a  little  town  in  a  valley  of  the  eastern  Italian  Alps.  &quot;Why,  even  a  Frugoni  might  find  himself  in  difficulty.&quot;  (Fru-  goni  was  reputed  to  be  4974616c79's  top  clinician.)  &quot;When  you're  in  a  camp  up  there  with  three  hundred  men,  only  an  orderly  to  help  you  and  all  your  equip-  ment  in  a  haversack,  you  need  aspe-  cial  talent.  And  the  trouble  with  you  fellows  is,  you  haven't  had  the  train-  ing.  No  sooner  do  you  get  out  of  medical  school  than  you're  whisked  into  the  Army.  They  won't  even  let  you  intern.  That  would  be  too  good.  They've  deferred  you  from  military  service  for  six  years,  and  they  can't  wait  another  minute.  No,  though  a  few  months  in  a  hospital  would  only  make  sense  and  be  to  their  advantage.  All  they  let  you  have  is  three  months'  training  in  Florence,  and  don't  tell  me  anything  about  that,  because  I  know.  All  theory  and  half  of  it  useless.  No  practice.  But  when  you  come  up  here  it's  a  different  story.  Ninety-nine  days  out  ofa  hundred,  nothing  happens-  it's  just  routine.  Then  one  day  comes.  The  emergency.  The  crisis.  And  what  do  you  do?&quot;  The  young  man  smiled  and  nodded.  &quot;You  can't  do  much,  PH  tell  you.  You  do  your  best,  of  course,  but  you  only  know  so  much.  Ah!  It's  a  bad  system.&quot;  Again  the  young  man  nodded.  He  didn't  need  to  be  told.  What  the  captain  said  was  the  truth,  and  it  cer-  tainly  applied  to  him.  He  didn't  feel  at  all  competent.  This  incompetence  seemed  to  be  centered  not  in  his  head,  which  was  full  of  facts  and  infor-  mation-he  had  done  fairly  well  in  his  exams-but  inhis  hands.  They  felt  slow,  inexperienced,  despite  their  will-  ingness  to  do.  And  the  worst  of  it  was  that  these  words  of  the  captain  had  a  prophetic  tone,  sounded  not  so  much  like  an  observation  as  a  tive.  He  already  started  hoping  that  it  wouldn't,  and  that  hoping,  like  an  inane  prayer,  seemed  proof  of  his  lack  of  self-confidence.  Right  then,  he  be-  gan  preparing  for  the  crisis  as  for  an  exam,  studying,  cramming  his  brain  with  more  theory,  and  setting  aside,  in  a  box  marked  &quot;Emergency,&quot;  vials  of  adrenaline,  morphine,  atropine;  plasma,  needles,catgut.  The  collection  kept  increasing.  HUNDRED  and  more  days  passed.  The  company  went  on  maneuvers.  'They  camped  on  moun-  taintops.  There  were  long  marches  and  steep  climbs,  on  which  he  was  the  only  doctor.  All  he  saw  was  blis-  ters,  backaches,  bruises,  swollen  an-  kles,  little  fevers,  upset  stomachs.  And  he  took  out  of  his  haversack  pills,  Band-Aids,  elastic  bandages,  and  straps.  Was  this  all  there  was  to  it-to  be-  ing  an  Army  medic?  Why,  there  was  nothing  to  it!  The  days  went  by  smoothly.  Everything  routine.  All  mi-  nor  ailments.  Perhaps  he  was  just  lucky  and  would  continue  to  be  lucky.  He  almost  forgot  what  the  captain  told  him.  In  October,  he  was  transferred  to  outpost  the  Austrian  bor-  der.  Now  he  had  not  just  a  haversack  of  medical  equipment  and  supplies  to  himself  but  a  whole  infirmary.  Six  beds-all  of  them  empty  when  he  ar-  rived.  He  seemed  to  bring  good  health  withhim,  the  way  some  people  are  said  to  bring  good  weather.  In  the  dispen-  sary,  there  was  a  glass  cabinet  full  of  surgical  instruments,  another  full  of  dis-  infectants,  yet  another  full  of  drugs,  and  he  had  a  key  to  the  narcotics.  There  were  two  high,  narrow  white  beds  in  the  center  of  the  room,  and  by  the  wallsa  bureau,  a  desk,  and  two  chairs,  besides  the  cabinets.  He  used  the  desk-used  it  every  day,  to  write  reports,  to  make  a  note  of  who  had  called,  of  the  pills  he  had  given  out,  the  little  cuts  he  had  bandaged,  and  so  forth.  The  infirmary  served  a  bat-  talion.  So  each  day  more  soldiers  an  near     39  came  to  see  him  than  when  he  had  had  only  a  company  to  look  after.  Sometimes  someone  would  have  to  stay  in  bed  fora  few  days.  At  one  point,  five  ofthe  six  beds  were  taken.  But  there  was  nothing  serious.  If  any-  thing  looked  even  half  serious,  he  sent  the  soldier  off  to  Udine,  to  the  large  Army  hospital.  He  had  an  ambulance  at  his  disposal.  All  he  had  to  do  was  fill  out  a  slip.  The  ambulance  driver  loved  to  go  to  Udine.  Oh,  it  was  an  easy  job.  At  intervals,  he  went  to  visit  a  detachment  of  soldiers  stationed  up  in  Tarvisio,  a  village  on  the  border.  There  the  [REDACTED]-4974616c79  trains  made  a  long  stop,  and  once  in  a  while  there  was  so  little  to  do  he  would  go  to  the  station  just  to  take  a  look  at  the  pas-  sengers  leaning  out  the  windows.  One  afternoon  when  he  was  up  in  Tarvisio,  he  went  for  a  stroll  down  the  village  main  street.  It  was  such  a  quict,  such  a  peaceful  little  town.  The  way  a  little  town  should  be,  he  thought-the  shops  well  stocked  and  neat;  the  sidewalks  washed  clean,  still  moist;  flowerpots  on  nearly  every  win-  dowsill;  an  air  of  peace.  Interrupting  it,  two  policemen  with  high  boots,  hel-  mets,  goggles,  and  leatherjackets  came  out  ofa  store  and  mounted  their  mo-  torcycles  with  a  swagger,  as  though  the  vehicles  were  two  stallions.  With  a  flourish,  they  pushed  the  starter  cranks  and  turned  the  accelerators.  Instantly,  the  motors  roared.  They  revved  them  up.  The  roar  took  on  the  character  of  a  scream.  He  couldn't  help  feeling  a  certain  dislike,  even  hate  for  them.  Then  they  departed-shot  out,  one  close  behind  the  other.  Soon  the  village  was  as  quiet  as  it  had  been.  After  a  while,  he  himself  left  Tarvisio  to  return  to  his  village  and  the  barracks.  He  looked  into  the  infirmary.  Everything  was  quiet  there,  too.  Just  as  well,  he  thought.  At  the  village  theatre-afew  min-  utes'  walk  down  from  the  barracks  they  were  showing  a  movie  he  hadn't  seen.  After  a  half  hour  at  his  desk,  he  thought  he  might  as  well  go  down.  As  he  usually  did  when  leaving  the  base,  he  told  the  medical  orderly     warning.  They  carried  the  weight  of  an  announcement,  a  special  message  for  him,  and  he  could  see  himself,  could  see  himself  clearly-maybe  a  hundred,  may-  be  two  hundred  days  from  now-hearing  those  words  over  again,  his  mind  bringing  them  up  the  day  he  would  be  confronted  with  a  crisis.  That  some  crisis  would  come  he  had  no  doubt  whatever.  It  was  certain.  Posi-     where  he  could  find  him,  and  went  along  to  the  theatre.  The  movie  was  better  than  he  expected-quite  entertaining,  in  fact-and  yet,  halfway  through,  he  felt  an  urge  to  leave.  He  kept  himself  seated,  but  the  urge  to  leave  grew.  Hardly  knowing  why,  or  what  he  would  do  when  he  got  out,  he  rose  and  slowly  walked  away.  Without  hurrying,  he  went  up  to  the  infirmary  and  4     " b"40  looked  around.  'There  was  nothing  new.  He  sat  down.  Why  had  he  left?  No  reason.  He  shook  his  head  slow-  ly.  Perhaps  he  ought  to  go  back.  But  somehow  he  felt  he  should  remain  where  he  was.  He  stayed  on,  looking  vacantly  at  the  sheet  of  green  blotting  paper  on  his  desk.  And  then,  a  minute  later,  he  heard  the  distant  sound  ofa  horn  blowing  without  pause,  and  get-  ting  louder,  He  went  to  the  window.  A  small  truck  was  coming  at  full  speed  up  the  road,  the  sound  of  its  horn  increas-  ing  as  it  approached.  It  pulled  up  in  front  of  the  infirmary  door,  and  he  rushed  out.  So  did  the  driver  out  of  the  cab.  From  the  barracks  several  soldiers  ran  toward  them.  &quot;Are  you  the  doctor?&quot;  the  driver  said.  (\xe2\x80\x98Yes.)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Two  seriously  injured  men,&quot;  he  said,  opening  the  backdoor  of  the  truck.  &quot;Motorcycle  police.  They  didn't  make  a  curve.&quot;  The  doctor  looked  at  the  two  men.  From  their  uniforms  he  had  little  doubt  they  were  the  same  two  he  had  seen  earlier  that  afternoon  up  in  Tarvisio.  &quot;Easy  [REDACTED];  he  said  as  he  helped  move  them  to  two  stretchers.  They  were  carried  to  the  dispensary  and  laid  on  the  two  high,  narrow  beds.  He  looked  at  them  again.  Seriously  injured  was  an  understatement,  he  thought.  The  two  men  were  a  shambles.  He  had  never  seen  such  injuries.  Wher-  ever  he  looked  there  was  something  wrong.  Nothing  seemed  whole.  Noth-  ing  seemed  intact.  And  there  he  was,  alone,  the  only  doctor.  His  hands  trem-  bling,  he  opened  the  cabinet  doors  and  rushed  from  one  to  the  other  in  a  mute  frenzy.  Adrenaline,  morphine,  plasma,  syringe,  and  needles  all  seemed  to  be  hidden.  Cotton  wool,  bandages,  tourni-      quet,  forceps,  catgut-he  looked  for  all  of  them  at  one  and  the  same  time,  and  didn't  seem  to  be  able  to  find  any-  thing.  And  yet  they  were  there.  He  knew  they  were  all  there.  &quot;Calm,  now,  calm,&quot;  he  told  him-  self,  and  tried  steadying  his  hands.  His  head  seemed  to  be  swimming,  and  hot,hot.  &quot;Hemorrhage  and  shock,&quot;  he  told  himself.  &quot;These  are  the  two  things  a  man  can  die  of  right  away.  Never  mind  the  fractures.  Never  mind  the  danger  of  infections  now.  Just  hemorrhage  and  shock.&quot;  He  found  a  tourniquet,  and  tied  it  round  an  arm.  Another  tourniquet  he  tied  round  a  leg.  He  got  the  plasma.  He  readied  a  syringe.  And  then  he  looked  at  the  men  again.  &quot;But  Doctor,&quot;  someone  said,  &quot;I  think  they  are  [REDACTED];  &quot;Dead?&quot;  He  hadn't  thought  of  that.  Life-he  had  only  thought  of  life,  and  how  it  could  be  saved.  The  thought  that  they  might  be  dead  had  not  entered  his  mind.  &quot;Dead?&quot;  he  said  again,  and  felt  their  pulses.  There  was  no  pulse  in  either.  He  felt  shamefully  relieved.  &quot;You  are  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;From  their  head  injuries,  no  doubt.  They  probably  died  on  the  spot.  When  did  the  accident  happen?&quot;  he  added,  turn-  ing  to  the  driver.  &quot;Oh,  it  couldn't  have  been  more  than  twenty  minutes  ago,&quot;  the  driver  said.  &quot;They  overtook  me.  'Those  two  men  are  going  too  fast,  &quot;  I  said.  &quot;''They  are  not  going  to  make  that  curve.  ...'  Yes,  twenty  minutes  I  would  say.  Up  on  the  Promollo  road.&quot;  Twenty  minutes-when  he  had  left  the  movie.  He  looked  at  the  two  men  again.  They  seemed  so  peaceful,  lying  there.  So  unconcerned  about  their  frightful  state.  Quite  without  a  worry.  And  there  was  nothing  to  be  done.  Ab-  solutely  nothing  to  be  done  except  put  the  things  he  had  taken  out  back  in  the  cabinets.  That  was  something  he  could  do.  One  by  one,  his  hands  not  trem-  bling  anymore,  he  put  them  back. "