 THE  LOTUS~EATER  icror  Lamon  and  his  wife,  El-  K}  len,  took  a  long,  pleasant  Sunday-  afternoon  drive  and  then  went  home  to  their  apartment  and  ate  sup-  per.  At  seven  o'clock,  when  the  tele-  phone  rang,  they  were  reading  the  Sunday  Times  in  the  quiet,  comfort-  able  living  room.  Victorpicked  up  the  receiver.  It  was  his  brotherJoseph.  He  was  seventeen  years  old,  gruff,  a  little  crude,  and  he  still  thought  he  knew  everything  there  was  to  know.  But  now  he  spoke  almost  mournfully.  He  said,  &quot;I  came  home  from  playing  basketball  this  afternoon  and  I  found  Mama  on  the  floor  in  the  living  room.&quot;  Victor's  heart  rushed,  and  he  felt  a  sudden  weakness  in  his  legs.  &quot;I  didn't  know  what  to  do,&quot;  Joseph  continued.  &quot;I  called  you  up,  but  you  weren't  home.&quot;  &quot;What  happened?  Is  anyone  else  there  now?&quot;  &quot;Dan  and  his  wife.  They  been  here  about  two  hours.  He  said  to  call  you  again  and  see  if  you  was  home  yet.  She  drank  some  booze  or  somethin'.  I  don't  know.  She  was  layin'  there  moanin',  and,  God,  I  didn't  know  what  to  do.  She  threw  up.&quot;  &quot;Is  she  all  right  now?  Did  you  call  a  doctor?&quot;  &quot;She's  still  on  the  floor.  She's  still  moanin'.  Father's  here.  Dan  said  for  you  to  come  up.&quot;  &quot;All  right.  I'll  be  there  in  a  little  while.&quot;  Victor  hung  up  and  told  Ellen.  She  said,  &quot;Oh,  my  God,  no.  How  awful.&quot;  &quot;They  want  me  to  come  up.&quot;  With-  out  realizing  it,  he  commanded  rough-  ly,  &quot;You're  coming  with  me.&quot;  She  pouted.  She  was  inordinately  nervous  about  calamity,  accidents,  sor-  row.  &quot;You're  coming,&quot;  Victor  said.  &quot;God  damn  it,  this  is  no  errand.  When  family  things  happen,  we  have  to  move  together-no  questions  or  excuses.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  help.  I  don't  understand  her.  She  doesn't  even  speak  English.&quot;  &quot;I  understand  her.  You're  my  wife.  How  will  it  look  if  you're  not  with  me?  Remember  last  spring  when  your  sister  was  in  the  hospital?  I  took  you  every  day  to  see  her.  I  went.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  say  you  had  to.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  a  fool.  That's  just  the  point.  You  didn't  have  to  ask  me-it  was  my  duty.  We  have  no  control  over  these  things.&quot;  He  went  on  like  this  while  they  were  putting  on  their  coats,  going  down  the  stairs,  down  the  path.  He  slammed  the  car  door  after  her.  When  he  got  in,  he  finished,  &quot;And  you'd  better  get  used  to  it.  This  is  only  the  beginning.  There  will  be  other     episodes,  and  hospitals,  and  funerals,  and  God  knows  what.&quot;  They  drove  in  silence  through  the  small  town.  As  they  came  near  his  parents'  house,  Victor  said,  &quot;I  didn't  mean  to  yell  at  you.  I'm  just  upset.  I'm  sorry.&quot;  He  parked  the  car  in  back  of  his  brother's  in  the  driveway,  and  he  and  Ellen  hurried  toward  the  small  gray  shingled  house.  It  was  cold,  and  the  wind  was  coming  up  strong.  Inside,  Victor  went  right  into  the  living  room.  Ellen  followed  meekly.  Victor's  mother  lay  there  on  the  floor-a  short,  rotund  mass  with  a  blue  blanket  over  her  legs.  Her  white  thick  feet  stuck  out.  Her  heavy  arms  moved  constantly,  languidly,  and  her  long  black  hair  swirled  against  the  flowered  carpet.  Her  very  white  face  moved  back  and  forth,  and  she  groaned.  Dan  was  on  oneknee  beside  her.  Was  she  all  right,  he  was  asking.  Did  she  want  anything?  Victor  suppressed  a  sob.  Ellen  put  her  hand  to  her  mouth  and  sat  down  in  the  dining  room  with  Dan's  wife,  Liz.  They  whispered.  They  could  see  through  the  large  open  archway.  Victor  looked  at  his  mother  and  thought,  Too  bad  she  couldn't  just  die.  That  made  him  feel  worse.  He  walked  over  to  Dan  and  said,  &quot;What  hap-  pened?&quot;  His  mother  looked  up  at  him,  her  black  eyes  dazed,  floating.  She  said  in  English,  &quot;Shut  up,  bitch.&quot;  She  said  it  again,  and  simpered  foolishly.  Dan  laughed  out  loud.  Victor  said,  &quot;Is  it  funny?&quot;  Dan  said  no,  and  laughed  again.  He  had  an  enormous  empty  aluminum  pot  beside  him.  &quot;She's  been  saying  that  to  everyone.&quot;  He  said  to  his  mother,  &quot;Do  you  feel  like  throwing  up  again?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don't  want  to.  I  don't  want  to.&quot;  She  spoke  now  like  a  six-year-old  child.  Her  mouth  was  drawn  into  a  tiny  white  bud.  Her  voice  was  very  small.  Dan  held  upan  empty  brown  bot-  tle.  He  said,  &quot;It's  hard  to  believe,  but  I  guess  she  drank  almost  a  whole  bottle  of  whiskey  this  afternoon  when  no  one  was  home.  It  was  the  bottle  Liz  and  I  brought  home  for  Father  from  our  trip  to  St.  Thomas.  He  only  had  a  cou-  ple  of  drinks  out  of  it.  She  must  have  got  hold  of  it  somewhere,  and  she  drank  it  all.  Why?  Why  did  she  do  it?  She  never  did  a  thing  likethis  before.&quot;  He  shook  his  head,  and  he  looked  lone-  ly  and  small  and  old  for  a  big,  strong  man  of  thirty.  &quot;God!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  was  awful  at  first.  She  was  lying  here  rav-  ing.  I  didn't  know  what  to  do.  I  held  her  tight  in  my  arms,  and  she  just  kept  throwing  up  like  some  drunk  sailor.&quot;  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  His  mother  said,  &quot;Shut  up,  bitch!&quot;  She  shouted  it  gamely,  richly.  &quot;Where's  Father?&quot;  Victor  asked.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Daniel  said.  &quot;Sometimes  I  wonder  who's  worse,  him  or  her.&quot;  Liz  said  softly,  &quot;I  think  I  heard  him  in  his  room.&quot;  Victor  went  through  the  kitchen.  It  seemed  even  dingier  than  usual,  and  he  decided  it  was  because  there  was  a  low-watt  bulb  in  the  ceiling  light  socket.  More  of  Father's  econo-  mizing,  he  thought.  He  passed  through  an  un-  lighted  hall  and  into  Fa-  ther's  room.  &quot;Are  you  in  here?&quot;  Victor  said.  &quot;Mmm.  I'm  here.&quot;  The  voice  was  a  little  nervous,  but  gentle.  Only  recently  had  Victor  real-  ized  that  he  loved  his  father.  Only  in  the  list  three  or  four  years.  He  used  to  blame  him  for  his  mother's  mental  ill-  ness,  but  now  he  knew  that  there  was  no  such  thing  as  blame.  And  even  if  Father  had  helped  cause  her  sickness  in  earlier  years,  he  suffered  now,  he  stayed  with  her,  he  took  care  of  her.  Victor  found  the  string  overhead  and  pulled  it.  Another  weak  bulb.  In  this  small  bedroom,  with  its  old  iron  bed  and  warped  cheap  wardrobe  and  lit-  tered  tables  and  bureau  and  faded  wall-  paper,  the  dim  light  somehow  helped  and  made  things  soft  and  even  cozy.  Father  frowned.  He  sat,  small  and  thin  and  dark  in  his  shirtsleeves,  on  the  edge  of  the  unmade  bed.  Victor  said,  &quot;Has  anyone  called  a  doctor?&quot;  His  father  answered  in  a  broken  accent.  He  always  insisted  on  speaking  English.  He  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  at  the  beginning  of  the  Depression,  and  he  had  never  made  much  money.  But  he  was  proud  that  he  had  become  an  Amer-  ican  citizen  thirty-five  years  ago.  He  was  proud  that  he  voted  for  Presidents.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  don't  need  a  doctor.  I  know  you  educated  and  all  that,  but  I  tell  you,  she  don't  need  a  doctor,.  She  be  all  right  now.  She  throw  into  the  pot.&quot;  He  gestured  with  his  arm,  a  liquid  forward  motion  from  his  mouth.  &quot;She  dring  this  bottle.  She  never  do  this  before,  I  have  to  hide  everything.&quot;  He  shook  his  head.  &quot;Why  didshe  do  it?&quot;  Victor  asked.  &quot;To  kill  herself.  To  bother  me.  How  do  I  know?  Who  understands  woman?&quot;     &quot;She  should  be  in  a  hospital  all  the  time.  Who  can  take  careof  her  here?&quot;  &quot;I  take  care  of  her.  Don't  you  worry  about  it.  She  be  all  right.&quot;  &quot;We've  got  to  call  a  doctor,  no  matter  what,&quot;  Victor  said.  &quot;Even  if  she  is  all  right.  We  can't  be  sure.  A  doctor  will  know.  Like,  if  she  suffered  any  damage  to  her  heart.  With  all  that  weight,  suppose  she  had  a  heart  attack  or  a  stroke?  We  might  not  know  it.  He  would.  Who's  the  family  doctor?  Do  you  still  have  LeBlanc?&quot;  His  father  nodded.  He  did  not  offer  to  get  up.  He  was  hiding  in  his  room.  His  eyes  looked  full  of  a  fearful  secret,  and  Victor  knew  what  the  secret  was.  Father  had  seen-for  the  first  time,  maybe-that  she  was  going  to  die  someday.  In  his  own  way,  he  loved  her.  Years  ago,  she  had  been  a  thin,  frail  girl,  shy  and  innocent  and  vivid,  and  he  had  treated  her  rough.  Her  children  had  grown;  she  had  stayed  alone,  doing  nothing,  getting  fat,  fall-  ing  into  a  deep  quiescence.  Victor  called  the  doctor.  The  an-  swering  service  said  that  Dr.  LeBlanc  was  not  on  duty  tonight,  but  Dr.  Mor-  ton  would  call  back.  While  waiting  for  the  call,  Victor  heard  his  mother  in  the  living  room  moaning,  singing  gently.  Now  she  was  saying,  of  all  things,  that  she  was  starv-  ing,  wasting  away.  VICTOR  opened  the  door,  and  when  the  doctor  came  in  he  introduced  himself.  He  felt  suddenly  shy,  reduced  by  this  stranger  in  his  father's  poor  home-this  tall,  slim,  elegant  man  in  a  fine  grayworsted  suit.  He  had  thick  blond  hair  swept  back.  His  nose  was  long  and  straight.  His  eyes  were  blue.  He  was  a  handsome  Wasp.  Father  ap-  peared  in  the  archway  and  stood  there  in  his  plaid  wool  shirt  and  baggy  pants,  brown  slippers  with  the  counters  flat-  tened  down.  &quot;I'd  like  you  to  meet  my  father,&quot;  Victor  said.  The  doctor  swiftly  switched  his  black  leather  bag  from  right  to  left  hand,  and  he  shook  hands  and  smiled  slightly.  Victor  imagined  him  in  bright  sunlight,  moving  a  tennis  racket  the  same  way.  Victor  said,  &quot;My  little  brother,  Joey,  here,  got  home  late  this  afternoon  and  found  my  mother  on  the  floor.  Right  there.  She  hasn't  moved.  She  drank  just  about  a  whole  bottle  of  liquor.  My  older  brother,  this  is  Daniel.&quot;  Daniel  nodded  deferentially,  and  the  doctor  smiled.  &quot;Daniel  came  rightup,  and  he  says  she  vomited  quite  a  bit.  She  seems  all  right,  but  we  thought  we  should  call  you  just  in  case.  She  doesn't  nor-  mally  drink.  Except  if  we  give  her  a  little  wine  on  a  holiday.  You  see,  Doc-  tor,  I  don't  know  how  much  you  know  about  this  case.  Dr.  LeBlanc  has  all  the  records.  He  knows.  She's  been  sick  since  I  was  little.  She  can't  help  it.  She  lives  in  some  sort  of  a  dream  world.  But  she  never  did  this  before.  Somehow  she  got  hold  of  this  bottle.  It  was  my  father's,  and  she  found  it  when  he  was  out  this  afternoon.  He  hardly  drinks,  either.  It  was  a  present.  We  called  you.  We  wanted  to  make  sure.&quot;  &quot;I'm  glad  you  called.&quot;  The  doctor  " b"38  spoke  softly,  and  yet  with  great  pres-  ence,  assurance.  Victor  walked  over  to  his  mother.  &quot;Mama,&quot;  he  said.  She  looked  up,  clutched  his  hand,  held  it  close,  and  said,  &quot;My  sons,  my  dear  children.&quot;  She  had  never  showed  affection.  Never.  Victor  squeezed  her  hand  tight  and  swallowed  hard.  &quot;She  doesn't  speak  English,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  understands  it  pretty  well,  but  for  some  reason  she  just  won't  speak  it.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter,&quot;  the  doctor  said.  He  knelt  beside  her  and  opened  his  bag.  &quot;Mama,&quot;  Daniel  said,  &quot;it's  the  doc-  tor.  He  wants  to  take  a  look  at  you.&quot;  &quot;Shuddup,  bitch,&quot;  she  said,  slurring.  &quot;'She  does  say  a  couple  of  words,&quot;  Daniel  said.  The  doctor's  eyes  sparkled,  and  he  could  not  help  smiling.  And  then  everyone  smiled.  &quot;It's  the  doctor,&quot;  Daniel  repeated.  She  looked  at  him,  then  at  the  tall  blond  man.  She  composed  herself,  and  with  sudden,  remarkable  dignity  she  said,  &quot;Doctor,  I'm  so  tired.  I  work  very  hard  cooking  and  cleaning  this  big  house  all  day.&quot;  Victor  did  not  translate  this  splendid  lie.  She  did  nothing  at  all,  day  after  day;  she  sat  in  a  stupor.  Each  minute  might  be  an  hour  to  her,  each  hour  melting  into  nothing,  before  and  after.  The  doctor  opened  his  bag  and  shouted  at  her  slowly,  pleasantly,  as  one  often  does  at  someone  who  does  not  speak  his  language.  &quot;I  want  to  have  a  look  at  you.  You're  all  right.  Now,  let's  check.&quot;  He  unbuttoned  the  topof  her  dress  and  placed  his  stethoscope  on  her  chest  and  moved  it  around.  With  long,  strong  fingers,  he  pressed  on  her  puffy  wrist  to  feel  her  pulse.  She  closed  her  eyes  drowsily.  &quot;Why,  she's  falling  asleep,&quot;  the  doctor  said.  He  smiled  again,  abruptly.  He  lifted  her  eyelids  separately;  her  eyes  rolled  around.  He  moved  the  blanket  back  and  picked  up  one  of  her  short  heavy  legs  and  tapped.  It  bounced.  Victor  felt  ashamed.  It  was  gray-white.  It  seemed  detached,  a  great  toadstool,  a  few  small  black  hairs  on  its  rough  fatty  surface.  Was  that  once  a  slim,  smooth,  attractive  leg?  He  had  seen  pictures  of  her  when  she  was  young.  The  doctor  picked  up  the  other  leg  and  tapped,  and  it,  too,  jumped.  It  was  a  thing  by  itself.  Victor  looked  around  the  room,  and  through  the  archway.  Everything  was  still.  His  father,  his  brothers,  his  wife,  his  brother's  wife-  all  silent.  The  rooms  were  dim  and  filled  with  old  furniture,  pale  walls.  The  wind  roared  outside.  The  doctor  covered  up  her  legs.  &quot;Is  that  the  bottle?&quot;  he  asked,  pointing.  'Yeah,&quot;  Joey  said,  springing  from  against  a  wall.  He  leaped,  picked  up  the  bottle,  and  swept  it  to  the  doctor's  open  hand.  The  doctor  looked  at  the  label;  it  was  an  excellent  whiskey,  and  he  raised  his  eyebrows  and  seemed  to  approve.  He  set  the  bottle  upright  on  the  floor.  From  his  bag  he  took  a  wide  silvery  cloth  tube  and  placed  it  around  the     mother's  enormous  arm  and  pumped  it  up  and  read  her  blood  pressure.  She  opened  her  eyes  and  said  dra-  matically,  &quot;I  do  so  much  work,  you  have  no  idea.&quot;  The  doctor  looked  kindly  at  her  as  if  he  understood.  He  removed  the  equipment,  packed  his  bag.  He  stood  and  said  in  a  loud,  confident  voice,  &quot;She's  fine.  Her  heart  and  blood  pres-  sure  and  her  reflexes  are  all  remarkably  good.  I'd  say  there's  nothing  wrong  with  her.  I  think  it's  a  good  thing  she  " b"  vomited.  She's  lucky.  There  should  be  something  wrong  with  her-all  that  alcohol.  It  would  certainly  do  me  in.&quot;  He  smiled.  His  teeth  were  long  and  yellow,  and  he  looked  like  a  distin-  guished  rabbit.  &quot;But  she's  all  right.  Don't  try  to  move  her.  Just  let  her  sleep  it  off.  She'll  probably  have  a  ter-  rific  hangover,  and  that  should  be  about  it.&quot;  He  shook  his  head-a  gesture  of  disbelief.  &quot;Almost  a  fifth  of  rye,&quot;  one  could  hear  him  telling  his  colleagues  at  the  hospital  tomorrow  morning.  &quot;Should  she  eat  anything?&quot;  Daniel  asked.  In  the  background,  his  mother  mumbled,  &quot;I  want  to  eat.  Give  me  food.  A  lot  of  food.  You  louts  never  feed  me.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  give  her  anything.  If  she  really  does  want  something,  maybe  a  little  clear  tea,  some  dry  toast.&quot;  The  doctor  moved  toward  the  shad-  owed  front  doorway  and  paused,  and  the  sons  gathered  around  him  like  a  cluster  of  midgets.  The  father  moved  away,  toward  the  dining  room.  Victor  looked  athis  father's  eyes.  His  father  glanced  from  the  floor  to  the  walls  to  the  ceiling.  Victor  said,  &quot;How  much  will  it  be,  Doctor?&quot;  &quot;Ah,  ten  dollars.&quot;  Victor  pulled  out  his  wallet  and  gave  him  the  money.  The  doctor  put  down  his  bag,  took  out  his  wallet,  and  placed  the  money  carefully  inside.  It  was  a  slim,  dark  alligator  wallet.  He  said,  &quot;Thank  you.  Don't  worry.  She'll  be  all  right.  Try  not  to  give  her  an  op-  portunity  to  do  it  again,  that's  all.&quot;  He  opened  the  door,  and  Victor  and  Daniel  went  out  onto  the  porch  with  him.  &quot;Thanks,  Doctor,&quot;  Daniel  said.  Thanks  for  coming  out  on  sucha  lousy  night,  and  a  Sunday,  too.&quot;  As  the  doctor  moved  between  wind-  whipped  hedges,  he  waved,  and  his  tie  flew.  He  got  into  his  car  and  drove  away.  It  was  a  bitter  night.  Victor's  hair  blew.  Down  the  hill,  strong  lights  flooded  a  used-car  lot.  They  made  the  night  lurid;  giant  clouds  rushed  heavy  and  black  across  the  winter  sky.  Bare  trees  swayed.  Beside  the  porch,  tall  bleached  grass  moved  flat  in  a  heavy  body.  Everything  else  was  silent,  emp-  ty,  desolate.  The  brothers  went  back  into  the  house  shivering,  rubbing  their  arms.  It  seemed  pleasant  in  the  rooms-soft  yel-  low  light,  warmth.  Mama  lay  with  the  blanket  over  her,  dozing,  snoring  a  lit-  tle.  &quot;Ten  bucks.  That  wasn't  much,&quot;  Daniel  said.  Father  said,  &quot;Sure.  They  could  charge  plenty,  a  Sunday  home  call.  A  nice  doctor.&quot;  Daniel  took  out  a  five-dollar  bill  and  gave  it  to  Victor.  Father  said,  &quot;I  pay  you  boys  later.&quot;  Daniel  smiled  and  blinked  and  shook  his  head.  The  brothers  went  to  the  kitchen.  followed-Fa-  Eventually,  everyone  ther,  the  wives.  They  sat  around  the  big  wooden  table  and  talked-about  the  high  cost  of  living,  automobiles,  clothes,  even  the  stock  market.  Every  so  often,  one  of  the  young  people  would  look  in  on  Mama.  Liz  made  a  pot  of  coffee,  and  Ellen  got  out  some  odd  chipped  cups.  She  sat  down  close  to  Victor.  In  a  lull,  Father  finally  got  up  and  went  into  the  living  room  for  a  mo-  ment.  No  one  followed  him.  No  one  knew  what  he  did  in  there,  or  how  he  looked,  or  what  he  thought,  When  he  came  back  to  the  kitchen,  he  said,  &quot;You  were  right.  I'm  glad  you  call  the  doctor.  Suppose  something  hap-  pen?  I  have  guilty  conscious  all  my  life.&quot;  Daniel  talked  about  his  two  small  sons.  Joey  leaned  lazily  against  a  counter.  The  room  was  dim,  and  ev-  eryone  was  sipping  coffee.  The  hot  radiators  clanged.  The  wind  shook  the  house.  In  the  empty  living  room,  lying  dishevelled  in  a  field  of  carpet  flow-  ers,  Mama  slept. "