SOLITAIRE  HE  children  were  asleep,  and  his  wife  had  gone  out  to  a  meeting;  she  was  like  his  father  in  caring  about  the  community.  He  found  the  deck  of  cards  in  the  back  of  a  desk  drawer  and  sat  down  at  the  low  round  table.  He  had  reached  a  juncture  in  his  life  where  there  was  nothing  to  do  but  play  solitaire.  It  was  the  perfect,  final  retreat-beyond  solitaire,  he  imagined,  there  was  nothing  but  madness.  Only  solitaire  utterly  eased  the  mind;  only  solitaire  created  that  blankness  into  which  a  saving  decision  might  flow.  Conviviality  demanded  other  people,  with  their  fretful  emanations  of  desire;  reading  imposed  the  author's  company  ;  and  one  emerged  from  the  anesthetic  of  drunkenness  to  findthat  the  opera-  tion  had  not  been  performed.  But  in  the  rise  and  collapse  ofthealternately  colored  ranks  of  cards,  in  the  grateful  transpositions  and  orderly  revelations  and  unexpected  redemptions,  the  cir-  cuits  of  the  mind  foundan  occupation  exactly  congruent  with  their  own  secret  structure.  The  mind  was  filled  with-  out  being  strained.  The  week  after  he  graduated  from  college-already  mar-  ried,  his  brain  worn  to  the  point  where  a  page  of  newspaper  seemed  a  cruelly  ramifying  puzzle-he  played  solitaire  night  after  night  by  the  glow  of  a  kero-  sene  lamp  on  an  old  kitchen  table  in  [REDACTED];  and  at  the  end  of  the  week  he  had  seen  the  way  that  his  life  must  go  in  the  appallingly  wide  world  that  had  opened  before  him.  He  had  drawn  a  straight  line  from  that  night  to  the  night  of  his  death,  and  began  walking  on  it.  During  that  week  he  had  remembered  how  in  his  childhood  his  mother  would  play  solitaire  by  the  light  of  the  stained-glass  chandelier  in  the  dining  room.  His  father  would  be  out  somewhere,  doing  good  for  the  community,  and  he  and  his  mother  would  be  alone.  He  was  an  only  child,  and  as  such  obscurely  felt  himself  to  be  the  center  of  the  sadness  that  op-  pressed  them.  Frightened  of  her  silence  and  ofthe  slithering  of  the  cards,  he  would  beg  her  to  stop.  Tell  me  a  story,  come  into  the  kitchen  and  make  some  toast,  go  to  bed,  anything;  but  stop.  &quot;One  more  game,&quot;  his  mother  said,  her  face  pitted  and  dragged  by  the  shadows  cast  by  the  overhead  chande-  lier.  And  then  she  slipped  into  one  of  the  impersonations  whereby  she  filled  their  empty  house  with  phantoms,  as  if     to  make  up  to  him  for  the  absence  of  brothers  and  sisters.  &quot;'The  weary  gam-  bler  stakes  his  [REDACTED];  she  said  in  a  soft  but  heavy  monotone.  &quot;The  night  is  late.  The  crowds  have  left  the  gaming  tables.  One  lonely  figure  remains,  his  house,  his  car,  his  yacht,  his  jewels,  his  very  life  hinging  on  the  last  turn  of  the  cards.&quot;  &quot;Don't,  Mother;  dow't!&quot;  He  burst  into  tears,  and  she  looked  up  and  smiled,  as  if  greeting  a  fond  forgotten  sight  upon  her  return  from  a  long  journey.  He  felt  her  wonder,  W  ho  is  this  child?  It  was  as  if  the  roof  of  the  house  were  torn  off,  displaying  the  depth  of  night  sky.  He  knew  now  that  her  mind  had  been  burdened  in  that  period.  Every-  thing  was  being  weighed  in  it.  He  re-  membered  very  faintly-for  he  had  tried  to  erase  it  immediately-her  ask-  ing  him  if  he  would  like  to  go  alone  withher  far  away,  and  live  a  new  life.  No,  must  havebeen  his  answer,  Moth-  er,  don't;  for  he  had  loved  his  father,  loved  him  out  of  the  silence  and  blind-  ness  that  wait  at  the  bottom  of  our  brains  as  the  final  possibility,  the  second  baptism.  The  removal  of  his  father  plunged  him  toward  that  black  pool  prematurely.  And  she,  too,  must  have  felt  a  lack  of  ripeness,  for  in  the  end  she  merely  moved  them  all  a  little  distance,  to  a  farm  where  he  grew  up  in  solitude  and  which  at  the  first  op-  portunity  he  left,  a  farm  where  now  his  father  and  mother  still  performed,  with  an  intimate  expert-  ness  that  almost  justified  them,  the  half-comic  rou-  tines  of  their  incompatibil-  ity.  In  the  shrill  strength  of  his  childish  fear  he  had  forced  this  on  them;  he  was,  in  this  sense,  their  creator,  their  father.  And  now  the  father  of  others.  Odd,  he  thought,  setting  a  black  nine  below  a  red  ten,  how  thoroughly  our  lives  are  devoted  to  doing  the  contrary  of  what  our  parents  did.  He  had  married  early,  to  escape  the  farm,  and  had  rapidly  given  his  wife  children,  to  make  his  es-  cape  irrevocable.  Also  he  had  wished  to  spare  his  children  the  responsibility  and  terror  of  solitariness.  He  won-  dered  if  they  loved  him  as  he  had  loved  his  father,  wondered  what  depth  of  night  sky  would  be  displayed  to  them  by  his  removal.  To  some  extent  he  was  already  removed.  They  formed  a  club  from  which  he  was  excluded.  Their  corporate  commotion  denied  him  access.  The  traces  of  his  own  face  in  their  faces  troubled  him  with  the  sus-     JANUARY  2  2,  19  7  2  picion  that  he  had  squandered  his  iden-  tity.  Slowly  he  had  come  to  see  that  children  are  not  our  creations  but  our  guests,  people  who  enter  the  world  by  our  invitation  but  with  their  smiles  and  dispositions  already  prepared  in  some  unimaginable  other  room.  Their  pre-  dictable  woe  and  fright  and  the  crippled  shapes  they  might  take  had  impercepti-  bly  joined  the  finances  and  the  legali-  ties  as  considerations  that  were  finite,  manageable.  Problems  to  which  there  is  any  solution  at  all,  no  matter  how  difficult  and  complex,  are  not  really  problems.  (Red  four  on  black  five.)  Night  by  night,  lying  awake,  he  had  digested  the  embarrassments,  the  dis-  placements,  the  disappointments,  the  reprimands  and  lectures  and  appeals  that  were  certain;  one  by  one  he  had  made  impossibilities  possible.  At  last  he  had  stripped  the  problem  to  its  two  white  poles,  the  two  women.  His  wife  was  fair,  with  pale  eye-  lashes  and  hair  containing,  when  freshly  shampooed,  reddish  lights.  His  mistress  was  as  black-and-white  as  a  drawing  in  ink:  the  electric  pallor  of  her  brow  and  breasts  always  shocked  him.  In  the  summer,  she  tanned;  his  wife  freckled.  His  wife  had  the  more  delicate  mind,  but  his  mistress,  having  suffered  more,  knew  more  that  he  didn't  know.  Their  opposition  took  unexpected  turns.  His  wife's  handwriting  was  illegible  and  hurried;  the  other's  secretarially  neat,  even  when  phrasing  panic.  His  wife,  now  that  she  saw  herself  on  the  edge  of  an  abyss,  clung  to  him  with  an  ardor  that  his  mistress  would  have  found  im-  modest.  He  had  come  to  feel  a  furtive  relief  when  a  day  passed  without  love-  making  being  thrust  upon  him;  pinned  between  whirlpools,  he  was  sated  with  the  sound  and  sight  of  women  crying.  His  mistress  cried  big:  with  thrilling  swiftness  her  face  dissolved  and,  her  mouth  smeared  out  of  all  shape,  she  lurched  against  him  with  an  awkward  bump  and  soaked  his  throat  in  abusive  sobs.  Whereas  his  wife  wept  like  a  miraculous  icon,  her  face  immobile  while  the  tears  ran,  and  so  silently  that  as  they  lay  together  in  bed  at  night  he  would  have  to  ask  her,  &quot;Are  you  cry-  ing?&quot;  Back  and  forth,  back  and  forth  like  a  bloodied  fist  his  heart  oscillated  between  them,  and  the  oscillations  grew  in  intensity  as  the  two  poles  drew  together  and  demanded  that  he  choose  one.  He  had  allowed  them  to  draw  to-  gether,  had  allowed  his  wife  to  know,  and  allowed  his  mistress  to  know  that  she  knew,  in  the  hope  that  they  would  merge-would  turn  out  to  be,  in  fact,  one  woman,  with  no  choice  needed,  or  the  decision  settled  between  them.  He  had  miscalculated.  Though  he  had  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  drawn  them  so  close  that  one  settling  into  his  em-  brace  could  smell  the  oth-  er's  perfume,  each  woman  became  more  furiously  her-  self.  (4  king  uncovered,  but  nowhere  to  put  him.)  How  could  he  balance  their  claims  and  rights?  The  list  was  entirely  one-sided.  Pru-  dence,  decency,  pity-not  light  things-all  belonged  to  the  guardian  of  his  chil-  dren  and  home;  and  these  he  would  lose.  He  would  lose  the  half-run-down  neighborhood  that  he  loved,  the  summer  evenings  spent  scratching  in  his  little  gar-  den  of  lettuce,  the  gritty  adhesion  of  his  elder  daugh-  ter's  hand  to  his  as  they  walked  to  the  popsicle  store,  the  decade  of  books  and  prints  and  records  and  fur-  niture  that  had  accumu-  lated,  the  cellar  full  of  car-  pentry  tools,  the  attic  full  of  old  magazines.  And  he  would  as  well  lose  his  own  conception  ofhimself,  for  to  abandon  his  chil-  dren  and  a  woman  who  with  scarcely  a  complaint  or  a  quarrel  had  given  him  her  youth  was  simply  not  what  he  would  do.  He  was  the  son  of  parents  who  had  stayed  together  for  his  sake.  That  straight  line,  once  snapped,  could  not  be  set  straight  again.  While  on  the  other  side  there  was  nothing,  or  next  to  nothing-merely  a  cry,  a  cry  for  him  that  he  had  never  heard  before.  No  doubt  it  was  momentary;  but  so  was  life.  She  had  nothing  to  give  him  but  bereavement  and  a  doubtless  perish-  able  sense  of  his  existing  purely  as  a  man.  Her  presence  made  him  happy  and  her  near  presence  made  him  very  happy.  Yet  even  when  they  were  so  close  together  their  very  skins  felt  wished  away,  strange  glass  obstacles  came  between  them,  transparent  el-  bows  and  icy  hard  surfaces  that  con-  stituted,  he  supposed,  the  structure  of  what  is  called  morality.  The  weary  gambler  stakes  his  all.  This  game  was  clearly  headed  no-  where.  An  ominous  unanimity  ofred  had  pretty  well  blocked  the  ranks.  The  kings  had  been  buried  for  lack  of  space,  one  of  the  aces  was  not  yet  up,  and  the  cards  left  in  his  hand  were  few.  He  fanned  them  and  found  seven    that  in  fact  there  were  three.  He  turned  the  top  one  up.  The  eight  of  spades.  He  put  it  below  a  red  nine,  but  this  unblocked  nothing.  Two  cards  left.  He  decided  upon  a  gamble.  A  card  for  his  wife,  a  card  for  her.  His  heart  began  to  tremble  at  this  boldness.  In  the  months  past,  he  had  learned  to  listen  to  his  heart;  he  had  never  noticed  before  what  a  positive  will  this  sup-  posedly  oblivious  organ  possessed.  On  his  way  to  a  tryst  it  would  press  in  his  throat  like  a  large  bird  trying  to  escape  a  trap,  and  at  night  when  he  lay  down  in  the  hope  of  sleeping  it  would  churn  and  rattle  on  his  ribs  like  the  blade  of  a  Waring  Blender  chopping  ice.  He  turned  the  first  card  and  looked  down  at  it  from  what  felt  like  a  great  height.  The  ten  of  hearts,  for  his  wife.  It  was  a  strong  card.  He  felt  fright-  ened,  and  looked  down  at  the  spider-  web  back  of  the  last  card  with  a  sensa-  tion  of  his  vision  being  impaired  by  the  roaring  in  his  chest.  Instead  of  turning  it  over,  he  tore  it  across;  the  card  was  plastic-coated  and  tough,  and  crumpled  before  it  tore.  From  a  fragment  he  saw  that  it  had  been  the  missing  ace.  No  matter.  He  was  a  modern  man,  not  superstitious  even  alone  with  himself;  his  life  must  flow  from  within.  He  had  made  his  decision,  and  sat  inert,  waiting  for  grief  to  be  laid  upon  him. "