 A  FABLE  OF  THE  BUYERS  MAN  walked  down  the  street  A  with  three  dreams  for  sale.  Of  course  he  would  not  tell  any-  one  what  they  were.  He  even  said  that  he  couldn't,  because  the  dreams  wouldn't  be  the  same  for  them.  He  couldn't  tell  them  anything  about  the  dreams  at  all.  They  were  there  like  straws  to  be  drawn.  Everyone  hopes  for  better  dreams  than  his  own,  and  peo-  ple  bought  them.  The  dreams  were  to  be  opened  in  private,  the  buyers  were  told.  They  were  printed  on  exactly  the  same  paper,  which  was  made  to  dis-  solve  as  it  was  read,  or  to  dissolve  any-  way  if  someone  tried  to  keep  it  with-  out  reading  it,  like  a  talisman,  so  that  it  might  produce  its  dream  that  way,  as  everything  can  do  if  the  right  spirit  ap-  proaches  it.  A  little  later  they  would  return  to  sight  in  the  man's  hand.  People  who  bought  the  dreams  sometimes  met  each  other  later  and  tried  to  compare  which  dreams  they  had  bought.  Very  suspiciously,  at  first.  Very  cautiously,  with  hints  back  and  forth.  Everyone  found  out  after  a  while  that  the  other  person  seemed  to  have  bought  a  different  dream.  But  then  it  turned  out  finally  that  there  were  too  many  of  them  in  the  same  room  for  them  all  to  have  had  different  dreams,  and  they  started  arguing  with     \xc2\xabScience     cach  other.  For  they  had  all  seen  that  there  were  only  three  dreams  in  the  man's  hand.  But  with  each  person  each  dream  clearly  had  been  different.  And  still  the  buyers  wanted  to  know  which  of  the  three  dreams  they  had  had.  They  tried  cverything.  They  classified  by  means  of  every  triad  they  could  think  of.  They  divided  each  other  into  three  fac-  tions,  which  never  seemed  accurate  enough.  They  kept  changing  sides,  and  never  forgiving  each  other.  Eventually,  in  order  to  check,  two  of  them  tried  to  read  the  same  dream  at  the  same  time,  and  it  disappeared  at  once,  entirely,  and  never  reappeared  in  the  man's  hand.  That  happened  again  and  the  man  was  left  with  only  one.  &quot;Now  won't  the  others  come  back  at  all?&quot;  he  was  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  it  doesn't  mat-  ter.  They  were  all  copies  of  the  same  dream.&quot;  &quot;Will  you  sell  usthat  one?&quot;  they  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  going  to  give  it  back.&quot;  &quot;Which  one  is  it?&quot;  they  asked,  al-  most  in  unison.  For  none  of  them  had  learned  any-  thing  at  all.  What  can  you  learn  from  a  bought  dream?  "