 DAY~OLD  BABY  RATS  OWN  near  the  river  a  door  D  slams;  somebody  wakes  up,  im-  mediately  flips  over  onto  her  back.  She  dreamt  she  went  fishing,  which  is  odd  because  she's  never  fished  in  her  life.  She  thought  someone  was  calling  her  &quot;baby.&quot;  There's  a  lot  of  January  light  crawl-  ing  from  beneath  room-darkener  shades,  casting  mobile  shadows  on  walls  and  ceiling.  The  mobile  is  com-  posed  of  hundreds  of  white  plastic  cir-  cles  the  size  of  Communion  wafers.  As  they  spin  they  wax  and  wane,  swell  and  vanish  like  little  moons.  Their  shadows  are  like  summer,  like  leaves,  the  leavesof  the  plane  tree  at  the  win-  dow,  which  hasn't  any,  right  now,  be-  ing  in  hibernation.  Through  the  crack  between  win-  dow  and  sill,  air  that  tomorrow's  papers  will  designate  Unsatisfactory  flows  over  one  exposed  arm,  making  the  hairs  stand  up  like  sentries.  Long  trailer  trucks  continue  to  grind  along  the  one-  way  street,  tag  end  of  a  procession  that  began  at  4  [REDACTED]  with  the  clank  and     whistle  of  trains  on  dead-end  sidings,  as  melancholy  as  though  they  were  the  victims  they  had  carried  across  the  [REDACTED].  The  trucks  carry  meat  for  the  Village  butcher  shops,  the  city's  restaurants-pink  sides  of  prime  beef  that  you  cannot  purchase  at  the  super-  market,  U.S.D.A.  choice,  or  commer-  cial,  pigs,  lambs,  chickens,  rabbits,  helped  off  the  trucks  by  shivering  men  who  warm  their  hands  over  trash-basket  fires.  In  the  apartment  across  the  hall  the  baby  is  bawling,  &quot;I  want  my  milk.&quot;  It's  cold  and  bloody  in  the  refriger-  ated  warehouses  where  the  meat  is  stored  prior  to  distribution.  It's  pretty  cold  in  here,  too.  On  her  feet  now,  naked,  she  looks  under  the  shade,  which  snaps  smartly  to  the  top  of  the  window,  disclosing  a  day:  very  clear  for  January.  And  colorful:  stained-  glass  sky  over  a  row  of  nineteenth-  century  houses  painted  pink  and  lime  and  lilac  and  beige,  topped  by  clus-  ters  of  chimney  stacks,  one  of  which  emits  a  tornado  of  oily  black  smoke,  fast  dispersing.  She  ought  to  port  it.  &quot;I  am  sorry.  The  Office  of  Air  Resources  is  closed  till  Monday.  Please  state  the  nature  of  the  offense  and  the  name  and  address  of  the  vio-  lator  and  we  will  take  action  upon  it  when  the  office  is  open.  This  is  a  re-  cording.&quot;  A  pair  of  eyes  on  the  fire  escape,  the  golden  gaze  of  the  fat  seven-toed  tom  from  the  next  apartment;  she  hasn't  a  stitch  on,  backs  away.  Next  thing,  she's  in  the  middle  of  the  kitchen,  bare  and  green  as  a  guppy,  trembling  from  head  to  toe,  so  much  that  it  is  dif-  ficult  to  open  the  door  to  the  lower  cabinet,  which  turns  out  to  house  a  siz-  able  bottle  collection.  On  her  knees  she  pours  into  a  glass  an  ounce  of  Scotch,  part  of  which  sloshes  over  the  linoleum  in  an  amber  puddle,  fast  dispersing.  She  gets  the  glass  between  her  teeth.  One,  two,  three,  wait-the  tremor  peaks,  subsides.  She  yawns  and  wipes  the  sleep  from  her  eyes.  Getting  dressed  now,  the  radio  go-  ing,  the  listener-sponsored  radio.  Dor't  speak  his  name.  He  is  everywhere,  like  spring.  His  eyes  are  leaves.  She  can  find  only  one  shoe  and  digs  desperately  in  the  welter  of  footwear  like  a  retreat  of  mer-  cenaries  in  the  bottom  of  the  closet;  how  did  she  get  so  many  shoes?  She  tends  to  lose  things  that  go  in  pairs.  &quot;Where's  my  other  glove?  My  new  earring-who  took  it?&quot;  she  will  wonder  help-  lessly,  tooold  to  pray  to  St.  Anthony,  patron  of  lost  objects.  His  eyes  are  leaves,  the  birds  his  messen-  gers.  Certainly  somebody  took  her  wallet  last  week  while  she  was  shopping  for  pants  on  Eighth  Street.  It  was  lifted,  rather  than  absentmind-  edly  abandoned  in  a  res-  taurant,  or  on  top  of  a  cigarette  machine.  Later  that  evening  a  thin,  limping  man  showed  up  on  the  doorstep  with  one  half  of  her  driver's  li-  cense.  He  explained  he  had  found  it  in  a  litter  basket  in  [REDACTED]  Square.  re-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Look,  flickering  in  the  thicket,  at  the  heart  of  the  thorn  tree.  Cold  as  wind-  Half  shod,  she  switches  to  an  all-  news  program:  It  is  after  ten  o'clock;  utili-  ties  are  unchanged.  The  other  shoe  is  in  the  bathroom;  she  spies  it-spitting  out  a  mouthful  of  tooth-  paste-under  the  radi-  ator.  The  shadow  of  a  black  man,  the  ripple  of  &amp;  war.  She  wraps  herself  in  a  white  rabbit-fur  coat  and  goes  out  with-  out  locking  the  door,  fumbling  for  her  huge  polarized  sunglasses  in  her  leather  shoulder  pouch,  down  two  flights  of  stairs  and  onto  the  sidewalk.  Now,  here  is  the  big  brown  United  Parcel  Service  truck  lumbering  illegally  up  onto  the  curb  and  halt-  ing  just  short  of  the  plane  tree,  which  bears  two  deep  gouges  where  the  same  truck  wounded  it  last  Monday  morning.  The  driver  hustles  out  and  starts  up  the  steps  with  a  brown  parcel,  whis-  tling.  In  the  vestibule  he  rings  her  bell,  which  of  course  nobody  answers,  since  the  apartment  occupant  is  beside  the  truck,  copying  the  license-plate  and  other  relevant  numbers  into  a  little  spiral  notebook.  Still  whistling,  the  young  man  with  the  brown  uniform  and  small  brown  mustache  comes  back  out  with  his  par-  cel.  The  woman  in  the  furry  coat  leans  against  the  tree,  glaring  through  her  dark  lenses.  &quot;Lady.&quot;  He  stops  in  mid-trill.  &quot;Be  nice.  I  can't  go  through  this  again.  Just  sign  the  little  slip,  I  give  you  the  pack-  age,  and  everybody's  happy.&quot;  Through  clenched  teeth  she  says,  &quot;This  time  I  am  really  going  to  report  you.  Really.  Do  you  know  thattree  cost  one  hundred  dollars  to  plant?  And  people  like  you,  people  like  you-&quot;  But  the  last  words  emerge  with  difficulty,  and  tears  fuzz  the  sharp  outlines,  her  polarized  visicn  of  the  sunny  world.  He  cannot  see  the  tears.  She's  dying  to  know  what  is  in  the  package.  With  rage  the  driver  throws  it  back  into  the  truck,  THis  Spe  Ur  down,.  &quot;You're  bad  news,  lady,&quot;  he    yells,  hurtling  into  the  driver's  seat;  revs  the  motor.Afraid  he's  going  to  take  out  his  temper  on  the  tree,  she  gets  in  front  of  it,  and  now  he  cannot  move  the  truck.  &quot;If  you  Don't.  Get.  Out.  Of  my.  Way.  I'm.  Going.  To  Run.You.  Down.&quot;  His  voice  changes.  &quot;What  do  you  want  from  me,  lady?&quot;  he  implores,  unanswerably.  He  gets  his  truck  away  without  a  mishap  after  all.  On  the  next  block  the  drunk  man  starts  out  of  the  doorway  where  he  has  lain  all  night,  stumbling  toward  her,  clawing  at  his  stained  clothes.  &quot;Hey,  don't  I  know  you  from  some-  wheres?&quot;  His  eyes  look  like  pebbles,  yellow  and  veined.  &quot;I  know  you.  I  know  you  a  nice  lady.  Won'tcha  gimme  something,  please?  Fourteen  cents,  all  I  need's  like  fourteen  cents.&quot;  Smiling  brilliantly,  dancing  around  her:  &quot;I  know  you,  I  watches  you  comings  and  you  goings.&quot;  Finally  she  digs  up  from  the  depths  of  her  pocketbook  some  change,  which  falls  to  the  sidewalk;  he  goes  after  it,  fumbling  and  muttering  in  the  gutter.  All  fall  he  was  a  worry  to  her,  sleeping  so  still  in  his  doorway,  a  crumpled  overcoat,  and  a  bottle  still  in  its  paper  bag  at  his  head  like  a  candle.  He  has  lost  the  overcoat  but  acquired  some  mittens.  How  does  he  know  her?  How  has  he  managed  to  fight  the  cold  this  long,  into  January?  BACK  in  the  apartment  with  the  newspapers  and  their  interesting  headlines:  4  CHAIN-STORES  FIRE-BOMBED  7  LI.  CHILDREN  DIE  IN  BUS  CRASH  FEAR  TEN  SLAIN  IN  RACKETS  WAR  GRAVEDIGGERS  CALL  STRIKE  Drug  Girl,  12,  Tells  of  Freakout  A  HUNGRY  BABY  DIES:  JAIL  MOM  Army  Dismisses  Charge  of  War  Crimes  by  General  FOE  ATTACKS...  POPE  BLESSES  ...  Actual  Tests  Used  to  Perpare  Pupils  for  Reading  Exams  At  the  table,  with  a  cup  of  tea  and  a  cigarette,  she  gets  the  gist  of  the  day's  news  and  what  the  department  stores  are  featuring,  since  she  has  errands  to  run,  things  to  buy.  Fidgeting,  tongue  between  her  teeth.  (&quot;Don't  do  that,&quot;  her  mother  used  to  say  watchfully,  &quot;you'll  ruin  your  occlusion.&quot;)  Reaching  the  weather  report  (occluded  front),  she  looks  warily  around,  as  though  she  were  being  watched.  But  there  is  nobody  in  the  house,  which  is  sud-  " b"30  denly  so  quiet  the  only  sound  is  her  own,  her  heartbeat.  There  are  no  clocks  in  the  apart-  ment.  What  time  has  it  gotten  to  be?  She  rushes  to  the  telephone  to  dial  the  time,  and  when  she  lifts  the  receiver  a  voice  is  immediately  in  her  ear.  &quot;Wash-  ington  operator  here.  I  have  a  person-  to-person  call  for  Mmm.  Blur.  Hello,  New  York,  will  you  accept  the  call,  please,  New  [REDACTED];  Superimposed  on  the  operator's  voice  is  another,  tinny  and  distant-a  woman's?  -but  she  cannot  make  out  the  words.  Who  does  she  know  in  [REDACTED]?  No,  she  will  not  accept  the  call,  she  will  not  accept  the  charges.  It  must  be  past  noon;  the  sun  will  be  setting  be-  fore  too  long.  Before  4:37,  according  to  the  newspaper.  She  has  not  lost  her  wristwatch,  but  she  cannot  seem  to  extricate  it  from  the  repair  shop;  it's  been  there  for  three  weeks  with  a  shattered  crystal  and  a  broken  hand  that  she  suspects  they're  keeping  in  traction.  She  turns  her  own  handspalms  up;  the  creases  gleam  with  sweat-snail  tracks.  Steadier  now,  tongue  emergent,  she's  refilling  a  pocket  flask  from  the  kitchen  liquor  supply.  It's  a  four-ounce  hip-  hugger  model  with  acute  red  leather  jacket  that  can  be  unbuttoned  for  cleaning;  she  carries  it  everywhere  in  case  of  emergency,  of  entrapment  in  subway  or  elevator.  Its  predecessor  fell  on  the  floor  of  the  ladies'  room  at  the  Art  Students  League,  where  she  was  waiting  for  a  perennial  art  student  to  finish  his  life-studies  class  so  they  could  go  out  to  dinner  and  drinks  or  vice  versa;  how  sorry  she  was  to  lose  it!  But  she  quickly  replaced  it  with  an  identical  model  from  Hoffritz.  With  him  she  went  to  an  island  re-  mote  from  the  city  and  from  every-  thing  else.  Ten  miles  out  in  the  Atlan-  tic,  off  the  coast  of  [REDACTED],  where  the  foghorn  cries  all  night  long,  once  a  minute,  &quot;It  Aurts,&quot;  warning  ships  off  the  rocks  where  lobsters  lie  low  (skit,  tering  anyway  into  the  baited  traps)  and  the  brightest  thing  by  night  is  the  eye  of  the  lighthouse,  since  the  island  is  without  community  electricity.  The  wind  blew  constantly  on  the  headlands  several  hundred  feet  over  the  sea.  When  the  fog  lifted,  the  ocean  was  the  color  of  melted  blue  wax.  Way  down  on  the  rocks,  seals  grazed,  polychro-  matic  as  pigeons:  blue,  grey,  brown,  and  spotted.  Once,  they  thought  they  saw  far  out  the  spout  of  a  whale.  Some  sportsmen  that  week  har-  pooned  a  small  whale,  a  blackfish,  and  towed  it  into  the  harbor,  stranding  it  on  Fish  Beach.  All  afternoon  they  worked  to  extract  their  three  spear-  heads,  up  to  the  arms  in  blubber,  till  the  sand  was  red  and  sticky  and  thick  with  flies.  She  and  he  walked  in  the  woods,  when  he  wasn't  painting,  watched  birds  and  the  sunset,  ate  lobster  with  slippery  fingers.  Then  she  had  an  appetite,  and  used  to  collect  leftover  oranges  or  bananas  from  other  tables  to  devour  thoughtfully  at  night  while  the  light-  house  spun  and  the  foghorn  ached.  Having  gone  through  her  fruit  and  her  library  books,  she  got  into  bed  at  last;  he  sighed,  set  on  by  his  own  bad  dreams.  It  wasn't  a  success,  that  holiday.  Making  love  in  a  blueberry  patch,  they  reached  up  for  berries  and  ate  them  where  they  lay.  The  days  seemed  very  long.  On  the  rocky  cliffs  they  fought,  wind  whipping  their  barbed  words  out  to  sea.  Back  on  the  mainland,  at  the  bus  terminal,  early  in  the  morning:  &quot;You'll  be  all  right?&quot;  he  asked,  peering  into  her  face  as  though  it  were  a  steamed-up  mirror.     -Mary  Haynes  On  the  river,  a  ship  leaving  for  Valparaiso  when  the  shipping  page  said  it  would  sounds  its  plangent  departure  whistle-music  for  bones.  Three  times,  as  if  it  would  never  end,  then  ends  for  that  particular  voyage.  It  makes  her  eyes  water.  Tropical  fish  in  the  living  room  move  around  in  their  tank,  weaving  gaudily  through  the  underwater  foliage,  striped  golden  angelfish,  jewel-like  neon  tetras,  gouramis,  a  fat  black  molly.  The  one-eyed  catfish  oozes  along  the  bottom  of  the  aquarium  as  though  vacuuming  a  rug.  As  she  bends  over  them  they  rise,  expecting  a  shower  of  ant  eggs,  fran-  tically  kissing  the  surface.  She  has  for-  gotten  to  feed  them.  Again.  OMEBODY  leaves  the  house  for  the  second  and  final  time  that  day.  A  fire  siren  evokes  thenoise  of  every  dog  on  the  block.  There  has  been  a  fire  in  the  Chinese  laundry.  An  old  Italian  lady  in  a  greasy  black  dress  giggles  at  the  snakes  in  the  pet-shop  window,  her  week's  groceries  piled  in  her  gro-  cery  cart,  and  her  cat  on  top  of  them.  He  spreads  like  fire-don't  smile.  The  Goodwill  Exterminators  have  a  new  exhibit:  among  the  pickled  bugs  and  childishly  hand-lettered  signs,  a  jar  of  milk-white  shrimps  with  tails,  labelled  &quot;Day  old  baby  Rats,  caught  in  a  Vokswagon  on  Perry  Street  by  My-  ron.&quot;  She  digs  her  nails  into  her  glove-  " b" less  palms,  Dow't  smile;  he  hates  it.  Pretend  not  to  tremble.  She  checks  her  left  wrist  to  see  what  time  it  is.  The  sign  over  the  bank  spells  out  time  and  temperature  in  yellow  dots:  12:57  79\xc2\xb0  Very  warm  for  January.  Near  the  subway  entrance  she  buys  the  afternoon  paper,  and  a  man  pushes  her  change  over  the  papers  with  his  hook.  HE  train  stops  just  outside  of  the  Fourteenth  Street  station  and  re-  fuses  to  budge  for  several  minutes.  At  T  wenty-third  Street,  for  some  reason,  a  mob  storms  the  cars,  hustling  for  seats.  A  very  small  woman  gets  jammed  in  the  half-open  door-a  midget,  really,  but  still  an  ordinary-looking  middle-  aged  woman  in  an  out-of-style  tweed  coat  and  an  out-of-town  hat  with  a  lit-  tle  veil,  which  is  looped  rakishly,  ac-  cidentally,  over  one  ear.  She  appears  so  helpless  that  somebody  offers  her  a  seat.  &quot;Hurry  up,  Daddy!  Over  here!&quot;  The  other  halfof  the  door  shuts,  and  she  screams.  The  door  opens.  Her  husband,  who  is  taller,  but  only  by  an  inch,  rushes  in,  swinging  a  tiny  child  over  the  edge  of  the  platform.  They  plop  him  onto  the  seat  she  gave  up  and  stand  guard,  protectively.  \xc2\xae  La  &quot;I  need  a  lollipop,&quot;  the  baby  shouts  over  the  shriek  of  the  train;  no  larger  than  a  year-old  infant,  an  achondro-  plastic  dwarf  without  his  parents'  good  proportions,  withvery  short  plump  baby  arms  and  no  legs  to  speak  of.  His  forehead  bulges  above  a  big,  perplexed  face,  mouth  turned  down  at  the  cor-  ners.  Like  any  child  he  squirms  petu-  lantly  in  his  seat,  under  a  sign  which  reads  &quot;Little  enough  to  ride  for  free?  Little  enough  to  ride  your  knee!&quot;  Daddy  midget  gives  him  a  lemon  lolli-  pop.  She  has  to  cook  dinner  for  eight  peo-  ple  next  Thursday.  She  picks  out  a  five-  quart  casserole  in  Macy's  basement,  tries  to  charge  it,  discovers  that  all  her  credit  cards  are  missing,  buys  it  any-  way,  orders  it  sent.  &quot;Jeez,  Miss,  didn't  you  inform  Credit  yet?&quot;  The  elevator  to  Credit  is  suffocatingly  hot  and  reeks  of  fur  and  perfume.  It  stops  at  every  floor,  and  by  the  eighth  she  has  recalled  that  she  has  no  charge  account  with  Macy's.  (The  [REDACTED]  man  will  make  a  real  effort  to  deliver  the  dish  in  time,  nick-  ing  off  more  of  the  bark  of  the  plane  tree;  ringing  and  ringing  but  nobody's  home.  )  Sweating  in  her  fur  coat,  she  pro-  ceeds  down  the  maze  that  leads  to  the  subway  platform,  through  a  crowd  of  people  eating  ice-cream  cones  and  ask-  ing  which  way  to  the  Port  Authority  Bus  Terminal;  nearly  bumps  into  a  soldier  who  has  taken  a  post  by  a  gum  machine.  Not  an  ordinary  GL  but  someone  on  his  way  to  a  revolution.  Leaf-patterned  trousers  tucked  into  combat  boots,  combat  jacket  of  a  dif-  ferent  green,  green  beret  pulled  down  nearly  over  his  eyebrows-even  his  canteen  is  in  camouflage.  Only,  his  gun  is  not.  He  holds  his  rifle  butt  end  down  between  his  boots  like  a  walking  stick.  He  stares  impassively  over  the  crowd,  as  though  he  thinks  he  is  invisible.  And  perhaps  he  is.  She  has  reached  the  last  staircase  when  there  is  a  voice  at  her  back,  a  whisper:  &quot;Hey  lady,  you  need  help  with  your  packages?&quot;  But  her  hands  are  empty.  She  is  holding  very  tightly  to  the  railing.  Another  voice:  Middle-aged  lady  who  inquires  kindly,  &quot;Are  you  sick,  Miss?  Do  you  need  some  help!&quot;  She  shakes  her  head  no,  but  the  lady  helps  her  down  anyway,  talking  cozily.  &quot;You  know,  I  had  a  friend  once  was  so  scared  ofthe  subway  she'd  get  nauscous  when  the  train  came  in.  It's  called  claustrophobia?  Well,  finally  the  husband  made  her  see  the  doctor.  Well,  it  turned  out  that  her  brother  lockedher  in  a  closet  once  when  she  was  a  bitty  thing,  and  she'd  forgot,  ten  all  about  it.  But  her  heart  re-     " b"32  membered.&quot;  A  leap  of  the  heart,  &quot;You  know,  it  was  a  funny  thing.  After  she  got  well  and  rode  subways  without  thinking  twice  about  it,  she  had  one  of  those  freak  accidents  and  al-  most  lost  an  arm  on  a  Flushing  train.  I  bet  the  operations  cost  her  more  than  the  psychia-  trist  did.  Well,  honey,  here's  your  train.&quot;  Tottering  onto  the  lit  car,  she  supports  herself  against  a  post,  breathes  easier  until  the  doors  have  closed  and  the  train  starts  down  the  dark  passage.  With  a  felt-tip  pen,  someone  has  lettered  on  the  L&amp;M  ad,  &quot;God  is  a  Sadist.&quot;  UICKLY  tiring  of  her  own  re-  flection  in  the  dressing-room  mir-  rors,  she  buys  the  first  dress  she  tried  on,  a  silky  blue  Ban-Lon  number  that  makes  her  look  thin  as  a  doll.  There  is  a  delay  when  she  tries  to  charge  it.  Shifting  from  foot  to  foot  with  impa-  tience,  says  yes,  she  will  report  the  loss.  (She  will  be  extremely  surprised  when  next  tenth  of  the  month  a  bill  arrives  from  this  department  store  for  $600  worth  of  merchandise  she  never  purchased.  But  perhaps  she  will  have  notified  Credit  Service  in  time  to  avoid  the  liability.)  A  very  young  girl  with  a  face  like  an  angel's  sits  in  anarmchair  in  the  ladies'  lounge,  breast  bare  to  her  infant  daughter;  the  baby  nurses  with  an  ex-  pression  of  concentration,  pink  palm  closing  and  unclosing  rhythmically  like  a  sea  anemone.  The  mother's  knees  are  spread  in  fatigue.  Assorted  clothes,  dia-  pers,  bottles,  and  magazines  are  falling  out  of  the  department-store  shopping  bags  beside  her  chair.  She  looks  as  though  she  has  been  travelling  a  long  time.  She  has  just  gone  to  sleep;  eye-  lashes  hover  like  black  spiders  over  her  cheekbones.  She  snores.  Baby  loses  the  soda  fountain  and  wails  angrily.  Her  mother  automatical-  ly  readjusts  the  small  head  and  closes  her  eyes  upon  the  world  once  more,  breathing  onto  it  the  syllables,  like  prayer,  &quot;Goddam  son  of  a  bitch  bas-  &quot;Breathe  in,&quot;  the  nurse  instructed.  &quot;Pant.  Harder.&quot;  She  tried  to,like  a  good  girl,  sobbing  obediently.  &quot;It  won't  hurt  so  much  this  way.&quot;  Actually,  it  hurt  very  little.  &quot;It  works  like  a  vac-  uum  cleaner.&quot;  Nature,  she  said,  abhors  &gt;  a  vacuum.  &quot;I  usually  have  a  cleaning  woman,&quot;  she  told  the  fluorescent  ceil-  ing  lights.  A  sip  from  the  red  flask  in  the  toilet,  followed  by  arush  of  acid.  Outside  on  Fifth  [REDACTED],  asbestos  flakes  eddy  in  spiral  air  currents  like  snow,  the  carcinogenic  emission  from  a  new  skyscraper.  Something  blows  into  her  eye  before  she  can  get  out  her  dark  glasses.  She  blinks  to  tear  it  away.  Bells  jangle.  The  saffron  robes,  the  shaven-head  Buddhists  chanting  &quot;Hare  Krishna&quot;  surround  her,  offering  their  literature  with  gentle  words.  Under  their  sleazy  peach-tinted  rayon  saris  they  wear  sweaters  and  sweatshirts,  and  sneakers  instead  ofsandals.  Surely  they're  in  the  wrong  climate.  They  sing,  &quot;Hare  Krishna,  Hare  Krishna,  Krishna  Krishna,  Hare  Hare,&quot;  snap-  ping  their  belled  fingers  and  jouncing  to  ward  off  the  cold.  The  literature  is  called  &quot;Back  to  Godhead,&quot;  and  shows  a  circle  of  girls  with  pleated  skirts  like  fans  dancing  beneath  stylized  Indian  flowers,  a  round  moon.  &quot;Hare  Rama,  Hare  Rama,  Rama  Rama,  Hare  Hare,&quot;  the  hectic  singers  chant.  &quot;Oh  my  God,  isn't  that  Al  Silber-  stang  from  Fire  Island?&quot;  says  a  passer-  by,  nudging  her  companion  to  a  halt.  Al  Silberstang  does  not  cease  from  his  dance.  His  eyes  dwell  on  inner  secrets.  She  searches  for  money  so  she  can  escape  their  circle.  &quot;Peace,  peace,  lady,&quot;  says  Al  Silberstang,  whirling  away  with  her  money.  But  there  is  no  peace  from  the  Buddhists,  no  peace  from  the  chestnut  and  pretzel  sellers,  one  at  each  corner,  warming  their  hands  over  the  braziers  and  reiterating  their  spiel.  Escaping  across  the  street,  she  looks  up  to  see  where  she  is-a  mistake;  her     head  begins  to  spin.  What  did  she  eat  for  breakfast?  Here  she  is,  the  rival  sect's  head-  quarters,  St.  Patrick's  Cathedral.  A  man  on  the  steps  brandishes  a  sign,  &quot;Annovinc  Sick  H-Boms  Dictator  Wir  Be  at  an  old  lady  in  an  old  mink,  in  a  walker,  going  up  the  steps  with  the  aid  of  a  younger  fe-  male,  daughter  or  niece,  who  looks  put-  upon  and  cold  in  her  short  cloth  coat.  The  old  lady's  arm  is  grasped  on  the  other  side  by  a  nun.  You  can  tell  it  is  a  nun  from  the  navy-blue  tailored  outfit,  like  an  airline  stewardess's,  and  the  truncated  veil,  revealing  a  steel-grey  curly  bang.  Nuns  never  used  to  have  grey  hair.  Or  calves.  The  nuns  of  her  youth  floated  like  blackbirds.  Step.  By  step.  By  step,  the  old  lady  is  guided  through  a  small  door  set  into  the  heavi-  ly  ornamented  bronze  ones.  Around  the  corner  is  the  aftermath  of  a  Fili-  pino  wedding,  the  small  white  bride  shivering  and  smiling  for  the  photog-  raphers.  The  nuns  with  their  pale  faces  taught  them  myths  about  eternity  and  how  to  walk  in  processions.  &quot;  'Tis  the  month  of  our  Mother,  the  blessed  and  beautiful  days,&quot;  the  parochial  school-  children  sang  in  May,  carrying  their  sheaves  of  wheat  down  suburban  side-  walks,  under  the  magnolias,  A  pretty  sight.  Though  she'd  never  really  cot-  toned  to  Our  Lady;  she  much  pre-  ferred  the  Holy  Ghost,  perhaps  because  he  was  a  bird.  Heaven,  hell,  purgatory,  limbo,  where  little  unbaptized  children  lived  pleasantly  in  a  garden,  crawling  on  the  green  grass,  and  it  never  snowed.  Purgatory  was  where  they  melted  your  sins  away;  hell  was  very  hot.  (A  little  boy  died  and  a  saint  revived  him.  &quot;Oh  Mother,&quot;  he  cried,  &quot;I  have  been  in  such  a  terrible  place!&quot;)  She  is  cold.  " b"And  hungry:  the  smell  of  burning  chestnuts  rises  like  incense.  &quot;Getcha  hot  chestnuts!  Getcha  pretzels!&quot;  He  scatters  a  handful  of  raw  nuts  over  the  coals,  extends  a  bagful  with  a  hand  that  is  like  a  burnt  pretzel,  grins  brilliantly.  &quot;I  bet  you  hungry,  pretty  lady  ;  I  know  you-&quot;  UGGING  at  the  door  to  the  Ca-  thedral,  where  she's  never  been.  He  eats  terror,  gulps  tears,  and  spits  catastrophes.  The  smell  of  incense,  dazzling  banks  of  red  votive  candles,  the  purple  light  from  high  stained-  glass  windows  decorated  with  suffering  saints.  Tourists  move  chattily  around  the  gloom  of  the  nave;  in  the  side  aisles  kneel  the  reverent  few.  She  looks  dizzily  at  the  vaulted  ceiling,  light-  years  away.  She  steadies  herself  on  a  granite  basin.  Then,  to  show  she's  all  right,  dabbles  holy  water  from  the  font  and  blesses  herself  like  the  tourists  just  ahead.  The  basin  has  specks  float-  ing  in  it  and  a  layer  of  silt.  Her  heart  beats  as  though  it  were  trying  to  get  out.  Looking  for  a  place  to  sit  down,  she  travels  along  an  enor-  mous  aisle,  toward  where  she  sees  people  as  at  the  small  end  of  the  tele-  scope  her  father  gave  her  once  when  she  was  thirteen  and  infatuated  with  science.  It  has  been  years  since  she  was  in  church.  And  what  a  church!  Are  you  supposed  to  cover  your  head  these  days?  She  has  no  cover,  not  even  a  handkerchief  to  pin  to  her  hair.  At  a  side  pew  occupied  mostly  by  women  her  knees  signal  no  farther,  and  she  slides  in.  Her  uncovered  scalp  prickles  dangerously.  She  thinks,  with  longing,  of  her  flask.  As  she  plans  about  getting  back  down  the  aisle,  or  at  least  behind  a  stone  pillar,  the  women  begin  trickling  cut  the  other  side  of  the  pew.  An  el-  bow  in  the  ribs:  it  is  the  niece  or  daughter  of  the  woman  in  the  walker.  &quot;Miss,  could  you  please  move  along,  or  are  you  asleep,  dope?&quot;  Unable  to  reply,  she  shies  into  the  aisle,  abandoning  (she  will  remember  later,  in  a  crowded  room)  a  brown-  and-white  box  from  Saks  Fifth  [REDACTED]  to  the  niece  or  the  H-bomb  man  or  St.  Patrick.  Or  him,  the  god  of  fear.  There's  a  convenient  pillar,  and-what  is  this'-a  curtained  cubicle  behind  a  brass  gate,  private,  hidden,  a  good  place  to  take  stock  and  think  her  way  out,  back  to  the  right  door.  Sneaking  a  backward  glance,  she  parts  the  white  curtain,  ducks  in,  groping  for  familiar  leathery  corners.  Just  as  she  has  the  cap  off  and  is  tilting  the  flask  back,  there  is  a  hair-raising  creak.  Somebody  else  is  only  a  breath  away.  And  listen-  ing.  And  murmuring,  through  a  grille,  &quot;Ja,  mein  Kind?&quot;  Fallen  into  the  hands  of  the  Nazis.  &quot;Yes,  my  child,&quot;  he  says  impatiently.  Good  heavens,  somebody  is  answer-  ing.  It  is  her  own  high  parochial-  school  voice,  her  very  tongue  snapping  out  the  appropriate  response.  &quot;Bless  me,  Father,  forI  have  sinned.  It  has  been  fifteen  years  since  my  last  confes-  sion.&quot;  At  last  she  gets  the  bottleneck  in  her  mouth.  Alcohol  is  instantly  ab-  sorbed  through  the  stomach  lining  into  the  bloodstream.  At  once  the  molecules  are  joined  up,  spreading  the  cheerful  news.  Anticipatory  silence.  Perhaps  he  only  understands  German.  She  racks  her  brain-she  has  no  wish  to  go  spilling  the  secrets  of  her  life  to  a  stranger.  First  you  confessed  sins  against  the  Church,  then  against  God.  She  remem-  bers  a  sin  against  the  Church:  &quot;I  have  missed  Mass.&quot;  &quot;How  many  times?&quot;     &quot;Every  time.&quot;  Quick  swallow.  A  rush  of  confidence.  &quot;I  used  God's  name  in  vain  five  times.  I  disobeyed  my  parents  three  times.  I  was  rude  to  a  nun  once.  I  slapped  my  little  sister.  I  was  untruthful-&quot;  Running  out  of  sins,  she  adds,  desperately,  &quot;I  smoked  marijuana.&quot;  &quot;On  how  many  occasions?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember.&quot;  He  clears  his  throat,  beginning  to  sound  like  a  Viennese  psychiatrist.  &quot;So,  is  that  all  that  you  wish  to  tell  [REDACTED];  &quot;Well,  not  quite,&quot;  she  stalls  (once  more  should  do  the  trick).  Then  she  realizes  that  now  there  are  three  of  them  in  the  confessional;  someone  else  is  waiting  on  the  other  side,  behind  the  priest,  making  a  priest  sandwich,  get-  ting  restless.  She  shifts  heavily  to  assert  her  presence-probably  the  niece  wom-  an  who  called  her  &quot;dope.&quot;  &quot;Oh  no,  Father,&quot;  she  says,  tilting  the  flask  back  for  another  round.  Not  all  of  it  reaches  her  mouth,  there's  spillage;  the  booth  fills  with  the  odor  of  alcohol  in  addition  to  that  of  Lister-  ine.  She  is  tempted  to  offer  him  a  nip  through  the  grille,  for  his  stomach's  sake.  &quot;But  it's  been  such  a  long  time.&quot;  A  weak  giggle.  Her  time,  and  the  jig,  is  up.  The  Big  Ear  is  no  longer  fooled.  &quot;My  daughter,  I  suspect  you  are  spoof-  ing  me.  There  are  penitents  waiting;  you  are  wasting  my  time.  Why  are  you  here?  What  do  you  want?&quot;  No  answer.  &quot;Do  you  want  absolution?  If  you  are  in  some  kind  of  trouble,  we  shall  discuss  it  in  the  rectory  at  two-  forty  next  Wednesday.  Father  Klein-  hardt  is  the  name.&quot;  &quot;Father  Kleinhardt,  I  am  fright,  ened.&quot;  &quot;For  your  penance  say  three  Hail  Marys,  Now  make  an  Act  of  Contri-  &gt;     " b"34  tion.&quot;  Switching  tongues,  he  begins  to  absolve  her  in  Latin.  &quot;I  am  frightened  to  death,  Father.&quot;  But  he  chooses  not  to  hear.  She  begins,  &quot;Oh  my  God,  I  am  heartily  sorry,&quot;  and  slips  out,  leaving  him  committed  to  the  end  of  his  Latin  prayer,  noticing  a  sign  taped  to  the  side  altar:  &quot;Father  Kleinhardt:  English-  Deutsch.&quot;  At  the  altar  of  St.  An-  thony  a  prayer  is  posted  in  mock  parch-  ment,  promising  the  reciter  fortydays'  indulgence.  She  has  got  away  with  it,  she  is  outside,  she  is  free.  The  morning  she  left  the  northern  island  a  young  deer  escaped  from  it,  the  only  one  of  the  herd  imported  from  Boothbay  Harbor  who  couldn't  settle  down  but  rampaged  through  the  woods  like  a  crazy  thing  and  ate  roses  out  of  village  gardens.  After  they  found  hoof-  prints  on  the  beach,  they  put  out  salt  for  him  in  the  woods.  He  passed  her  boat  swimming  like  a  small  horned  seal  in  a  mainland  direction;  it  was  too  late  and  too  foggy  for  the  lobster  smacks  to  find  him.  By  the  time  she  reached  the  city  he  was  fathoms  deep,  and  the  fish  were  grazing  off  his  ant-  lers.  &quot;Taxi,  lady?&quot;  said  a  cabdriver  outside  the  Port  Authority  Bus  Termi-  nal.  The  man  drove  demoniacally,  hunched  like  a  jockey  over  the  wheel;  only  when  they  reached  her  apartment  didshe  observe  that  it  was  because  he  couldn't  straighten  his  back.  In  the  full  glare  of  the  street  lamp  his  features  leapt  at  her:  the  thrust  chin,  the  snub  nose,  the  furrowed  forehead  with  its  hugewen,  the  maimed,  cleft,  two-  fingered  hoof  of  a  congenitally  de-  formed  right  hand.  Smiling  hilariously,  he  scratched  at  the  wen.  &quot;'Take  it  easy  now,  lady,&quot;  he  told  her.  (The  dead  deer  lies  among  the  rocks,  nibbled  bare  by  sea  worms  and  crustaceans,  far  from  home;  barnacles  have  attached  themselves  to  his  skele-  ton;  when  spring  comes  a  fisherman  will  draw  up  with  his  catch  its  alien  skull,  and  think  it  is  something  new.)  Once  you  have  seen  him  he  will  nev-  er  let  you  get  away  with  anything.  OW  itis  time,  definitely  time,  to  start  uptown,  taking  it  easy  and  crossing  with  the  lights.  The  sun  has  gone  down,  leaving  a  stain  in  the  west.  At  a  store  window  she  acknowledges  with  a  slight  smile  her  reflection:  a  thin  woman  in  a  white  coat  and  big  black  glasses,  soon  to  be  middle-aged,  puz-  zled  because  the  years  went  so  fast  and  the  days  so  slowly.  And,  someday,  old.  Killing  time,  she  stops  to  light  a  cigarette  and  is  nearly  swept  over  by  an  energetic  group  of  tiny  children,  chat-  tering  in  the  half-light  by  Central  Park.  There  are  about  eight  of  them,  fat  as  chickadees  in  their  snowsuits.  Isn't  it  late  for  them  to  be  out?  &quot;I'm  cold,&quot;  complains  one  grumpy  mite  with  thick  glasses  and  a  circle  of  mustard  around  his  mouth  to  one  of  the  two  teachers,  long-haired  girls  in  furry  coats  like  her  own.  They  seem  to  have  lassoed  her.  Then  she  realizes  it's  arope;  they're  clinging  to  a  rope,  with  a  teacher  at   each  end,  and  she  has  got  in  the  mid-  dle.  What  a  good  idea;  little  children  will  hold  on  if  you  tell  them  to.  The  teachers  untangle  her  and  say,  &quot;Come  along  now,&quot;  jerking  the  chil-  dren  briskly  down  the  sidewalk.  A  small  spectacled  girl  has  a  pink  balloon  floating  from  the  end  of  her  little  finger.  There  area  lot  of  pairs  of  spectacles  for  such  a  small  group  of  kindergarten-aged  children.  The  children  are  blind.  These  are  blind  children,  with  their  teachers,  sightless  among  the  seeing,  though  she  can't  see  any  too  well  herself,  in  her  dark  glasses  with  the  sun  gone  down,  hurrying  toward  an  uptown  appoint-  ment.  The  hot  light.  An  egg,  a  shiny  egg  dancing  in  a  glass.  (Sunday  morning  she  will  burn  the  bacon  and  spill  the  scrambled  eggs  on  the  floor  trying  to  stamp  out  the  fire  in  her  bedroom  slippers.)  Lying  on  a  table,  somebody  cried,  &quot;Hey  that  hurts,  it  hurts,&quot;  and  yet  it  didn't  hurt  that  much.  &quot;Relax.  Don't  fight  it,&quot;  said  the  nurse.  &quot;Would  you  care  for  a  ciga-  rette?  I'm  afraid  all  I've  got  is  Sa-  lems'&quot;-putting  it  between  dry  lips.  An  involvement  of  the  inner  space,  a  truly  savage  pain.  Slurp,  water  whiz-  zing  in  the  basin.  Will  it  travel  down  the  sewers  like  an  abandoned  pet,  eye-  less,  lost  to  the  gene  pool,  never  to  breed?  Doctor  having  left  the  room,  his  as-  sistant  matter-of-factly  sprinkled  wa-  ter  over  what  was  in  the  basin,  saying,  &quot;I  baptize  thee  in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.&quot;  &quot;You  are  baptizing  a  newt,&quot;  she  said  reproachfully.  The  nurse  looked  ashamed.  &quot;Sorry,  but  I  just  have  to  do  this.  Say,  you  know,  I  keep  newts?&quot;  &quot;I  have  tropical  fish,  myself.&quot;  Let's  go  to  bed  and  tell  les-almost  there  now.  Committing  our  murders  decently,  in  private.  Punching  the  moon-white  elevator  button.  The  ele-  vator  boxes  her  into  a  private  space;  she  rises  with  it,  shaking  in  silence.  I  don't  know  the  enemy's  you.  Y  ou  haven't  heard  he  is  me.  He  greets  her  at  the  door,  waving  a  Martini  glass,  reeling  her  into  the  party.  &quot;Oh  my  God,  am  I  glad  to  see  you,&quot;  she  says.  "