 b"THE  CARDPLAYERS  oumn  Rummy,  a  Continental  card  game  of  chance  and  skill  for  two  to  six  players,  using  two  full  packs  (with  jokers),  is  being  played  in  the  kitchen  of  our  Melbourne  suburban  house  by  my  father  and  his  fifteen-  year-old  son.  It's  my  deal.  We've  won  one  game  apiece.  Tension  is  high.  &quot;Deal,&quot;  says  my  father.  He  is  impatient.  Understandably.  I  am  a  slow,  awkward  shuffier,  cards  falling  all  over  the  place  whenever  I  attempt  some  speed.  Fancy  ripples,  as  practiced  by  my  champion  cardplaying  aunts,  are  beyond  me,  so  far.  Even  with  sleek,  new,  plastic-coated  cards,  which  these  are  not.  &quot;I  haven't  finished,&quot;  I  tell  him,  at-  tempting  one  more  shuffle,  which  does  little  to  rearrange  the  order  of  the  cards.  They  must  be  years  old,  these  cards.  (The  nine  of  spadeshas  a  corner  missing,  which  you  can  spota  mile  off,  and  for  the  two  of  diamonds  we  use  a  blank.)  They  feel  like  chunks  of  felt  in  my  hands,  absolutely  refusing  to  slip  properly.  &quot;It's  enough,&quot;  &quot;Come  on.&quot;  &quot;Here  I  come,&quot;  I  announce.  I  straighten  up  the  edges  of  the  deck  with  a  series  of  taps  on  the  edge  of  the  table,  O  and  then,  with  studied  q)  nonchalance,  I  slide  the  ~\xc2\xbb  cards  out  to  the  center  3  of  the  table  for  my  fa-  ther  to  cut.  &quot;Cut,&quot;  I  tell  him.  But  what's  this?:  My  father,  a  minute  ago  so  eager,  is  suddenly  bore-  dom  personified.  He  leans  back  in  his  chair.  He  yawns.  He  hums  or  moans  a  snatch  of  some  inner  melody.  Then,  with  all  the  time  in  the  world,  he  reaches  out  a  lazy  hand  for  the  deck,  cuts,  hardly  looking  at  the  cards,  gives  me  a  small  mocking  smile,  then  leans  back  again,  this  time  with  his  fingers  laced.  Uh-oh,  He's  playing  tricks.  And  we  getting  along  so  nicely.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  I  practically  shout.  &quot;You're  supposed  my  father  says.     were  to  take  the  bottom  card.&quot;  &quot;Don't  tell  me  the  rules,&quot;  he  snaps.  &quot;Deal.&quot;  A  t     What's  happening?  Doesn't  he  want  to  play?  Well,  if  he  doesn't,  that's  all  right  with  me.  I've  got  plenty  of  other  things  to  do.  The  cardplaying  was  his  idea,  not  mine.  I'm  supposed  to  be  studying,  if  the  truth  be  known.  &quot;Wake  up,&quot;  he  says,  again  with  a  flick  of  impatience.  I  take  a  deep  breath.  I  look  at  him.  His  maroon  jumper  spotted  with  stains.  The  most  rumpled  shirt  collar  in  the  history  of  the  world.  And  trousers  of  unbelievable  bagginess,  fortunately  this  minute  out  of  sight.  You  should  hear  the  dramas  when  my  mother  tries  to  get  him  to  change  his  clothes.  &quot;Well?&quot;  he  says.  I  deal.  Plop,  plop,  one  card  at  a  time.  The  great  cardplayers,  my  aunts,  al-  ways  do  two,  skimming  them  out  fast  and  low,  a  bare  inch  at  most  off  the  top  of  the  table,  winging  them  in  with  un-  canny  precision,  right  where  they  want  them.  Not  me.  I  like  to  take  it  slow.  It's  quiet.  There's  hardly  a  sound  other  than  the  soft  fall  of  the  cards  asI  deal  them  out.  Eight,  eight.  Nine,  nine.  It's  early,  not  yet  eight  o'clock,  just  we  two  here,  my  father  and  me,  My  mother  has  taken  my  five-year-old  brother  off  to  an  uncle's  to  be  fitted  for     35  aschool  suit.  The  suit  fitting  will  take  ten  minutes-it's  probably  over  by  now-but  afterward  comes  the  real  business  of  the  visit:  the  cups  of  tea,  the  slices  of  cake,  and  the  talk.  Oh,  the  talk.  When  my  mother  gets  together  with  her  family,  it  never  ends.  Two  hours  at  least.  More  likely  three.  While  my  brother  sits  there  going  out  of  his  head.  My  father  was  supposed  to  go,  too,  but  at  the  last  minute  changed  his  mind.  They're  not  Ais  family.  He  can't  stand  all  that  talk.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  I  tell  him,  the  dealing  done.  He  seems  to  be  in  no  hurry  to  pick  up  his  cards.  His  usual  style  is  to  grab  them  up  as  they  come,  getting  them  in  order  in  his  hand  quickly,  eyes  nar-  rowed  with  concentration.  He  is  at  his  most  serious  at  such  times,  cach  in-  coming  card  a  matter  of  life  and  death.  The  trouble  is,  his  face  is  transparent;  he  can't  conceal  his  disappointment  or  joy,  frowns  and  smiles  chasing  each  other  madly  across  his  wide  face,  and  when  he  picks  up  a  joker  everyone  knows.  He  beams  like  the  sun.  Lately,  he  has  developed  a  new  technique.  When  a  joker  comes,  he  gives  a  cry  of  glee,  plants  a  happy  kiss  on  the  card,  and  then  pastes  it  on  his  forehead,  high  up  (have  I  mentioned  he's  practical-  ly  bald?  ),  a  taunt  and  a  crown.  My  mother's  family,  with  whom  he  usually  plays,  can't  stand  this  sort  of  clowning  and  berate  him  loudly.  He  doesn't  care.  He  has  other  tricks,  too.  For  my  Aunt  Milly,  who  is  an  enor-  mous  deliberator,  he  has  a  range  of  snores,  from  a  small  oink  to  a  longdeep  buzz,  to  impress  upon  her  the  passing  of  time.  For  Sonya,  the  chain  smok-  er,  he  has  throat  clear-  ings  and  coughs.  In  tense  moments,  when  everyone's  waiting  for  his  move,  he  likes  to  stand  up  and  readjust  his  trousers.  He  is  a  singer,  too,  and  a  foot  tapper.  This  is  when  the  game's  going  well.  When  he's  losing,  he's  surly.  &quot;Sometimes  I  seri-      ously  wonder  why  we  let  you  in  the  game,&quot;  my  Aunt  Sonya  says.  &quot;Ah,  where's  your  sense  of  humor?&quot;  my  father  says,  scowling,  looking  angry.  Inside  my  father,  " b"36  who  is  a  small,  round  man,  there  is  a  gunfighter,  a  cowboy,  a  tall,  bronzed,  weather-beaten  man  of  action,  and  what  he  would  dearly  love  to  do  when  playing  with  my  aunts  is  fix  them  with  a  steely  eye,  challenge  them  coolly  with  an  &quot;Are  you  calling  me  a  liar?,&quot;  and  then,  moving  quickly  but  deliberately,  knock  the  table  across  the  room  with  one  powerful  flick  of  an  arm,  cards  and  money  flying,  let  loose  with  a  few  shots,  and  then,  unruffied,  calm,  with  the  smoke  of  battle  still  hanging  in  the  air,  give  his  gun  belt  an  arrogant  hoist  and  slouch  over  to  the  bar  for  a  slug  of  rotgut  whiskey.  Neat.  Why  does  he  play  with  them?  Well,  who  else  is  there?  However,  he's  not  playing  with  my  aunts  tonight.  He's  playing  with  me-a  nice,  friendly  father-and-son  game  in  our  shiny,  bright  kitchen.  For  pleasure.  No  money  involved.  I  look  up  from  my  hand  and  see  that  he  hasn't  even  started  to  pick  up  his  cards.  &quot;Are  you  playing,&quot;  I  ask  him,  &quot;or  not?&quot;  &quot;I  can  beat  you  with  one  hand  tied  behind  my  back,&quot;  he  says  (this  is  the  gunfighter  talking),  and  again  there's  the  mocking  smile.  But  at  least  there's  some  action,  too.  He  straightens  up  in  his  chair  and  begins  to  scoop  up  his  cards.  His  eyes  narrow.  The  cards  flick  into  place.  He  gives  a  grunt  of  satisfaction,  then  a  sour  moan,  another  grunt,  a  smile,  a  frown.  He  has  all  his  cards  now.  He  regards  them  narrowly.  I  wait.  It's  his  go.  Suddenly  he  throws  them  all  down  and  falls  back  in  his  chair.  &quot;Misdeal,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;What?&quot;  Another  one  of  his  tricks!  &quot;I  had  fourteen  cards,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;You  didn't  evencount  them!&quot;  He  smiles.  &quot;I  didn't  like  the  look  of  them,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Deal  again.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  for  God's  sake!&quot;  I  throw  my  cards  down,  too.  We  glare  at  each  other.  What's  going  on?  This  was  supposed  to  be  a  nice,  friendly  game.  &quot;Deal  again,&quot;  my  father  says.  There  is  a  challenging  look  in  his  eyes.  We  sit,  neither  of  us  moving.  What  do  I  do  now?  Stand  up  and  storm  out?  One  point  I've  never  been  able  to  work  out  about  my  father:  Does  he  like  me?  He'salways  yelling  at  me.  I'm  dumb.  I  don't  study  enough.  Then,  when  I  win  a  prize  at  school  or  get  ter-  rific  marks  for  something,  he  changes  his  tactics  completely.  He  switches  to  the  physical  side.  &quot;Why  don't  you  ever  mow  the  lawn?&quot;  he  yells.  And  then,  just  to  show  me,  he  runs  out  and  does  it  himself,  charging  up  and  down  with  the  hand  mower,  in  no  time  at  all  bright  red  in  the  face.  Actually,  he  loves  it.  He  loves  to  sweat.  He  rips  off  his  shirt,  exposing  his  muscular  arms  and  chest,  wheeling  around  in  his  sin-  glet  and  his  baggy  pants,  cut  grass  fly-  ing  up  like  a  fountain,  with  my  mother  looking  horrified  and  calling  out,  &quot;Sam!  For  God's  sake,  everyone  can  see  you!  Put  on  your  shirt!&quot;  His  hap-  piest  days,  he  has  told  me  a  million  times,  were  when  he  worked  in  a  quar-  ry  in  [REDACTED],  hewing  out  massive  blocks  of  stone  in  the  sun.  &quot;Ah,  but  what  would  you  know  about  that?&quot;  he  says  to  me.  Does  he  like  me?  Look,  we're  play-  ing  cards.  Or  are  we?  My  father  hasa  finger  in  his  ear.  He's  wiggling  it  up  and  down.  He  takes  it  out.  The  cards  lie  all  over  the  table.  &quot;Well?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  play  properly?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;I'm  playing,  I'm  playing,  &quot;Come  on.&quot;  &quot;O.K.  But  no  more  tricks.&quot;  Once  again  I  scoop  up  the  cards.  They're  in  an  incredible  mess  from  having  been  thrown  down  all  over  the  place.  He  watches  me  as  I  sort  them  out.  I  try  to  do  it  quickly,  to  get  some  life  back  into  the  game.  He  doesn't  saya  word.  I  go  into  my  routine  of  clumsy  shuffling.  Still  not  a  word.  I  slide  the  deck  out  to  the  middle  of  the  table.  He  cuts,  slipping  out  the  bottom  card,  not  looking  at  it.  I  start  to  deal.  He  watches  the  cards  as  they  come  his  way,  but  he  doesn't  pick  them  up.  &quot;  he  says.     -Howaro  NEMEROY  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  I  say  to  him,  &quot;I've  got  a  fantastic  hand.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  so?&quot;  he  says,  and  reaches  for  his  cards.  He  starts  to  move  quickly,  giving  little  grunts.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  says,  throwing  down  the  eight  of  hearts.  We  start  to  play.  The  object  of  the  game  is  to  get  rid  of  all  your  cards,  making  sets  and  runs-if  possible,  doing  it  all  in  one  shot.  I  need  about  five  cards,  unless  I  rearrange  them  all  in  some  other  way,  which  I  haven't  yet  properly  worked  out.  Ah.  I  pick  up  a  three  of  clubs.  Things  are  looking  good.  My  father  studies  his  cards.  He  has  to  throw  one  out.  He's  taking  his  time.  The  pause  lengthens.  Has  he  forgotten  it's  his  shot?  &quot;Your  go,&quot;  I  remind  him.  Still  he  doesn't  move.  Nor  does  he  seem  to  be  thinking  all  that  much.  With  my  father's  transparent  face,  you  always  know  what's  going  on.  &quot;You're  to  throw  out,&quot;  I  remind  him  again.  He  looks  at  me,  just  fora  second,  then  down  at  his  cards  again.  He  breathes  out,  noisily,  through  his  nos-  trils,  almost  a  sigh,  his  mouth  a  glum  line.  He  moans,  deep  in  his  throat.  He  blinks.  Then  he  throws  his  cards  down,  all  of  them-just  lets  them  fall-  pushes  his  chair  back  from  the  table,  and  walks  out  of  the  room.  HERE'S  my  father  going?  For  a  second  I  think  it's  the  bath-  room,  but  no,  he  goes  right  past.  He's  in  the  hall.  I  hear  the  click  of  a  light  switch.  Then  another.  He's  going  into  the  living  room.  But  he  doesn't  sit  down.  I  don't  hear  any  grunts,  or  the  creak  of  his  favorite  chair.  Nothing.  Not  a  sound.  Then  I  hear  the  click  of  the  light  switch  again-he's  turned  it  off-and  then  a  door  opening  and  another  light  going  on.  The  front  bedroom.  But  he  doesn't  go  in.  He  must  be  standing  in  the  door-  " b"way,  doing  I  don't  know  what.  Anoth-  er  click.  He's  turned  the  light  off.  Now  he's  just  standing  there,  in  the  dark,  while  I  sit  in  this  bright  kitchen,  still  foolishly  holding  my  cards.  I  look  up.  The  cupboards  are  works  of  art.  My  mother  had  them  done  last  summer,  spending  a  fortune  on  a  Polish  painter  who,  for  some  obscure  reason,  only  worked  at  night.  &quot;A  real  crafts,  man,&quot;  my  mother  said  proudly.  &quot;Who  cares  what  time  he  works?&quot;  The  paint-  er  was  a  tall,  thin  man  who  wore  a  black  beret,  working  till  two  or  three  each  morning,  taking  innumerable  breaks  for  coffee  and  cigarettes,  step-  ping  back  every  five  minutes  to  appraise  his  work.  I've  never  seen  anyone  so  fussy.  It  was  as  if  he  were  painting  a  mural,  and  not  a  cupboard  door.  But  look,  the  cupboards  shine  like  mirrors.  There's  not  a  brush  mark  to  be  seen.  It  took  him  four  weeks  for  a  job  that  he  could  have  done  in  one.  He  didn't  mind,  &quot;What  else  is  there  to  do?&quot;  he  once  said  to  me.  &quot;When  I  go  home,  I  sleep.  I  sleep  all  day.&quot;  And  then,  light-  ing  another  cigarette  and  staring  away  intospace,  &quot;''There's  no  life  here.  Noth-  ing.  Nothing  at  all.&quot;  I  sit  holding  my  cards,  listening  to  my  father  moving  around  the  house.  I  can  hear  him  going  from  room  to  room,  turning  on  lights,  switching  them  off,  with  long,  empty  pauses  in  between.  He's  in  the  hall  again.  I  can  hear  him  coming  this  way.  I  look  up,  and  there  he  is  in  the  doorway,  both  hands  deep  in  his  trouser  pockets.  He  looks,  all  at  once,  very  small.  And  suddenly  very  tired.  Is  something  wrong?  Is  he  sick?  Impossible!  My  father  is  as  strong  as  an  ox.  Except  for  his  kidney  stones,  but  he's  always  had  those.  &quot;From  those  oranges  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  my  mother  says.  &quot;Rubbish!&quot;  says  my  father.  &quot;What  harm  is  there  in  an  orange?&quot;  And  then  he  gets  carried  away  with  memories  of  those  old  days  and  starts  to  boast.  &quot;A  dozen  at  a  time!&quot;  he  shouts.  &quot;Real  or-  anges!  Not  like  you  get  here.&quot;  I  think  he  gets  incredible  pains,  but  he  never  says  a  word.  That's  not  his  style.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  he  said  when  he  came  back  from  a  checkup  last  week.  &quot;'They're  not  going  to  bury  me  in  this  country.&quot;  He  laughed.  He  told  one  of  his  famous  coarse  jokes.  But  I  think  he  has  to  go  back  again.  He's  not  looking  at  me.  He  doesn't  seem  to  be  looking  at  anything.  It's  so  quiet  I  can  hear  him  breathing-those  deep,  sighlike  breaths  through  his  nos-  trils,  his  mouth  still  a  tight  line.  I  don't  know  what  to  say.I  look  away.  He  comes  into  the  room.  He  stands  by  the  table,  looking  down  at  thecards.  He  sniffs.  He  breathes  out.  One  hand  comes  out  of  a  pocket  and  falls  onto  the  back  of  his  chair.  A  long  pause.  Then,  at  last,  he  pulls  the  chair  out  and  sits  down.  He  rubs  his  face,  pushing  his  cheeks  in  hard.  He  blinks.  And  then  some-  thing  seems  to  flick  across  his  transpar-  ent  face-a  decision,  a  thought.  He  gives  a  mock  smile.  He  scowls.  &quot;Well,  why  are  you  sitting  there  like  a  stone?&quot;  he  says,  with  his  old  im-  patience.  &quot;Deal.&quot;  "