THE  CONGRESS  ...  ils  s'achemingrent  vers  un  chateau  immense,  au  frontispice  duquel  on  lisait:  &quot;Je  n'appartiens  d  personne  et  j'  appar-  tiens  &amp;  tout  le  monde.  V  ous  y  \xc3\xa9tiez  avant  que  dy  entrer,  et  vous  y  serex  encore  quand  vous  en  sortirez.&quot;&quot;  -From  &quot;Jacques  le  Fataliste  et  son  Maitre&quot;  (1796),  by  Diderot.  BuEnos  AEs,  1955  LEjAaAnpro  FERRI  is  my  name.  Martial  echoes  may  be  heard  in  it,  but  neither  the  metals  of  glory  nor  the  great  shadow  of  the  Macedonian-the  words  belong  to  the  poet  of  &quot;The  Marble  Pillars,&quot;  who  honored  me  with  his  friendship-has  any  kinship  with  the  nearly  anonymous  man  who  strings  together  these  lines  on  the  upper  floor  of  a  hotel  on  San-  tiago  del  Estero  Street,  on  the  south  side  of  town,  which  is  no  longer  the  old  Southside.  Any  day  now,  I'll  turn  seventy-one  or  seventy-two;  I  am  still  teaching  English  to  a  handful  of  stu-  dents.  Out  of  indecision  or  careless-  ness,  or  for  some  other  reason,  I  never  married,  and  now  I  live  alone.  Lone-  liness  does  not  worry  me;  life  is  diffi-  cult  enough,  putting  up  with  yourself  and  with  your  own  habits,  I  realize  I  am  getting  on  in  years.  An  unmistak-  able  symptom  of  this  is  the  fact  that  novelties-maybe  because  I  feel  they  hold  nothing  essentially  new  and  are  really  no  more  than  timid  varia-  tions-neither  interest  nor  distract  me.  When  I  was  a  young  man,  I  was  fond  of  sunsets,  the  city's  sprawling  slums,  and  of  unhap-  piness;  now  I  prefer  mornings  and  down-  town  and  peace.  I  no  longer  play  at  being  Hamlet.  I  have  become  a  member  ofthe  Con-  servative  Party  and  of  a  chess  club,  which  I  usually  attend  as  an  on-  looker-sometimes  an  absentminded  onlooker.  Anyone  who  is  curious  may  dig  up  from  some  out-of-the-way  nook  of  the  National  Library,  on  Mexico  Street,  a  copy  of  my  &quot;Short  Study  of  John  Wilkins  Analytical  Language,&quot;  a  work  that  sadly  stands  in  need  of  a  new  edition,  if  only  to  cor-  rect  or  tolessen  its  many  mistakes.  The  library's  new  di-  rector,  I  am  told,  is  a  literary  man  who  dedicates  himself  to  the  study  of  ancient  languages  (as  if  modern  ones  were  not  sufficiently  rudimentary)  and  to  the  demagogic  exaltation  of  an  imaginary  [REDACTED]  Aires  of  knife  fight,  ers.  I  have  never  cared  to  meet  him.  I  came  to  thiscity  in  1899,  and  only  once  did  chance  bring  me  face  to  face  with  a  knifefighter  or  with  an  indi-  vidual  who  had  a  reputation  as  such.  Further  on,  should  the  occasion  pre-  sent  itself,  I  shall  relate  the  episode,  I  have  already  said  thatI  live  alone.  Several  days  ago,  a  fellow-roomer,  who  had  heard  me  speak  of  Fermin  Eguren,  told  me  that  he  had  died  in  Punta  del  Este.  The  death  of  this  man,  who  was  certainly  never  a  friendof  mine,  has  unaccountably  saddened  me.  I  know  that  I  am  alone;  I  know  that  in  the  wholeworld  I  am  the  only  keeper  of  that  secret  event-the  Congress  whose  memory  I  can  no  longer  share.  I  am  now  the  last  member  of  that  Congress.  It  is  undeniable  that  all  men  are  members  of  that  Congress-that  there  is  not  a  single  being  on  earth  who  is  not-but  I  know  I  am  a  mem-  ber  in  a  very  different  way.  I  \xc3\xa9now  that  I  am,and  that's  what  sets  me     NOVEMBER  6,  19  7  1  apart  from  my  numberless  colleagues,  present  and  future,  It  is  undeniable  that  on  the  seventh  of  February,  1904,  we  swore  by  what  is  most  holy  (is  there  anything  holy  on  earth,  or  anything  that  is  not?  )  never  to  reveal  the  history  of  the  Congress,  but  it  is  no  less  un-  deniable  that  my  now  committing  per-  jury  is  also  part  of  the  Congress.  This  last  statement  is  sufficiently  dim,  but  it  may  whet  the  curiosity  of  my  eventual  readers.  At  any  rate,  the  task  I  have  taken  upon  myself  is  not  an  easy  one.  I  have  never  before  attempted  the  art  of  narration-not  even  in  its  epistolary  form-and,  what  is  doubtless  even  more  important,  the  story  itself  is  un-  believable.  The  pen  of  Jos\xc3\xa9  Fernan-  dez  Irala,  the  undeservedly  forgotten  author  of  &quot;The  Marble  Pillars,&quot;  was  the  one  destined  for  this  work,  but  now  it  is  too  late.  I  shall  not  deliberate-  ly  falsify  the  real  facts,  although  I  foresee  that  laziness  and  incompetence  will  more  than  once  lead  me  into  error.  XACT  dates  are  of  no  account.  Let  it  be  recalled  that  I  came  from  Santa  Fe,  my  native  province,  in  1899.  I  have  never  gone  back.  I  have  grown  accustomed  to  [REDACTED]  Aires,  a  city  I  am  not  fond  of,  in  the  same  way  that  a  man  grows  accustomed  to  his  own  body  or  to  an  old  ailment.  With-  out  much  caring,  I  am  aware  that  I  am  going  to  die  soon;  I  must,  consequently,  control  my  digressive  tenden-  cies  and  get  on  with  my  story.  The  years  do  not  change  our  essential  selves-if  one  has  an  essential  self.  The  im-  pulse  that  would  one  night  lead  me  to  the  Congress  of  the  World  was  the  same  that  first  brought  me  to  the  staff  of  Ultime  Hore.  To  a  poor  boy  from  the  provinces,  becoming  a  newspaperman  was  a  romantic  fate,  just  as  to  a  poor  city  boy  the  life  of  a  gaucho  or  a  farmhand  is  romantic.  I  feel  no  shame  at  hav-  ing  once  wanted  to  be  a  journalist,  an  occu-  pation  that  now  seems  trivial  to  me.  I  remem-  ber  having  heard  my  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  colleague  Fernandez  Irala  say  that  newspa-  permen  wrote  for  ob-  livion  but  that  his  am-  bition  was  to  write  for  time  and  for  memory.  He  had  already  chis-  elled  (the  verb  was  then  in  common  use)  some  of  those  perfect  sonnets  that  were  later  to  reappear,  with  one  or  two  minor  touches,  in  the  pages  of  &quot;The  Marble  Pillars.&quot;  I  cannot  quite  recall  the  first  time  I  heard  the  Congress  spoken  of.  Maybe  it  was  on  that  same  evening  the  cashier  paid  me  my  first  month's  salary  and,  to  celebrate  this  proof  that  [REDACTED]  Aires  had  taken  me  to  its  bosom,  I  suggested  to  Irala  that  we  dine  to-  gether.  He  excused  himself,  saying  he  could  not  miss  the  Congress.  I  understood  at  once  that  he  was  not  referring  to  the  rather  pompous,  domed  build-  ing  at  the  foot  of  an  avenue  peopled  by  Spaniards  but  to  something  more  secret  and  far  more  important.  People  spoke  of  the  Con-  gress,  some  with  open  scorn,  others  with  lowered  voices,  still  others  with  alarm  or  curiosity-all,  I  believe,  with-  out  knowing  anything  about  it.  A  few  Saturdays  later,  Irala  invited  me  to  go  along  with  him.  It  must  have  been  nine  or  ten  o'clock  at  night.  On  our  way,  in  a  streetcar,  he  told  me  these  preliminary  meetings  took  place  every  Saturday  and  that  don  Alejandro  Glencoe,  the  president  of  the  Congress,  perhaps  struck  by  my  name,  had  already  signed  his  approv-  al  of  my  attendance.  We  went  to  the  Gas-Lamp  Coffee  House.  Some  fif-  teen  or  twenty  members  of  the  Con-  gress  sat  around  a  long  table;  I  don't  know  if  there  was  a  dais  or  if  memory  adds  it.  I  immediately  recognized  the  president,  whom  I  had  never  seen  be-  fore.  Don  Alejandro  was  a  gentleman,  already  well  along  in  years,  with  a  high  forehead  and  thinning  hair,  gray  eyes,  and  a  graying  reddish  beard.  I  always  sawhim  dressed  in  a  dark  frock  coat,  and  he  usually  held  his  hands  locked  together  over  the  head  of  his  cane.  He  was  portly  and  tall.  To  his  left  sat  a  much  younger  man,  also  with  51    red  hair.  Its  violent  color  suggested  fire,  while  the  color  of  Mr.  Glencoe's  beard  suggested  autumn  leaves.  To  his  right  was  a  long-faced  young  man  with  an  unusually  low  forehead  and  dressed  like  a  dandy.  Everyone  had  ordered  coffee,  and  several,  absinthe.  What  first  caught  my  attention  was  the  presence  of  a  woman-the  only  woman  among  so  many  men.  At  the  other  end  of  the  table  sat  a  boy  of  about  ten,  dressed  in  a  sailor  suit,  who  was  not  long  in  falling  asleep.  There  were  also  a  Protestant  minister,  two  unmistakable  Jews,  and  a  Negro,  who,  with  a  white  silk  handkerchief  around  his  neck  and  very  tight-fitting  clothes,  was  dressed  like  a  street-corner  hood-  lum.  In  front  of  the  Negro  and  the  boy  were  cups  of  chocolate.  I  do  not  remember  any  of  the  other  peo-  ple  except  fora  Mr.  Marcelo  del  Mazo,  a  man  of  great  politeness  and  fine  conversation,  whom  I  never  saw  again.  (I  still  have  a  faded,  poor-  ly  done  photograph  of  one  of  the  gatherings,  but  I  shall  not  publish  it,  since  the  dress,  the  long  hair,  and  the  mustaches  of  that  period  would  make  the  whole  thing  look  burlesque  and  even  shabby.)  All  groups  tend  to  create  their  own  dialects  and  rites;  the  Congress,  which  always  had  something  dreamlike  about  it,  seemed  to  want  its  members  to  dis-  cover-at  leisure  and  for  themselves  its  real  aim  and  even  the  names  and  surnames  of  its  members.  I  was  not  long  in  realizing  thatI  was  duty-  bound  not  to  ask  questions,  and  I  re-  frained  even  from  asking  any  of  Fer-  nandez  Irala,  who  never  told  me  a  thing.  I  did  not  miss  a  single  Saturday,  but  a  good  month  or  two  went  by  before  I  reached  this  understanding.  From  the  second  meeting  on,  my  neighbor  was  Donald  Wren,  an  en-  gineer  on  the  Southern  Railways,  who  was  to  give  me  English  lessons.  Don  Alejandro  spoke  very  little.  The  rest  did  not  address  themselves  directly  to  him,  but  I  felt  that  their  words  were  meant  for  himand  that  everyone  was  after  his  approval.  One  gesture  of  his  slow  hand  was  enough  to  change  the  topic  of  discussion.  I  came  to  findout,  little  by  little,  that  the  red-haired  man  to  his  left  bore  the  strange  name  of  Twirl.  I  remem-  ber  that  fragile  look  of  his,  which,  as  though  their  stature  made  them  dizzy  and  forced  them  to  hunch  forward,  is  characteristic  of  some  very  tall  people.  His  hands,  I  recall,  often  played  with  " b"52  a  copper  compass  case,  which  from  time  to  time  he  set  on  the  table.  At  the  end  of  1914,  he  was  killed  as  an  infantryman  in  an  Irish  regiment.  The  person  who  always  sat  to  the  right,  the  young  man  with  the  low  forehead,  was  Fermin  Eguren,  the  president's  nephew.  Putting  no  faith  in  the  methods  of  realism  (a  most  artificial  school  if  there  ever  was  one),  I  shall  declare  right  off  what  I  learned  only  little  by  little.  Be-  forehand,  I  want  to  remind  the  reader  of  my  situation  at  the  time.  I  was  a  poor  boy  from  Casilda,  a  farmer's  son,  who  had  come  to  the  capital  and  sud-  denly  found  himself-this  was  the  way  I  felt-in  the  intimate  heart  of  Bue-  nos  Aires  and  perhaps  (who  knows?)  of  the  whole  world.  After  half  a  cen-  tury,  I  still  feel  those  first  dazzling  moments,  which  certainly  were  not  to  be  the  last.  Here  are  the  facts.  I  shall  tell  them  as  briefly  as  I  can.  Don  Alejandro  Glencoe,  the  president,  was  an  Uru-  guayan  rancher  and  owner  of  a  large  spread  of  land  bordering  on  [REDACTED].  His  father,  a  native  of  Aberdeen,  had  established  himself  on  this  continent  around  the  middle  of  the  last  century.  He  brought  with  him  some  hundred  books-the  only  books,  I  venture  to  say,  that  don  Alejandro  read  in  the  course  of  his  life.  (I  speak  of  these  assorted  books,  which  I  have  had  in  my  hands,  because  in  one  of  them  lies  the  root  of  my  story.)  The  elder  Mr.  Glencoe,  on  dying,  left  a  daughter  and  a  son.  The  son  was  later  to  become  our  president;  the  daughter  married  an  Eguren  and  was  Fermin's  mother.  Don  Ale-  jandro  at  one  time  aspired  to  the  Uruguayan  National  Congress,  but  the  political  bosses  barred  his  way.  Ran-  kled,  he  decided  to  found  another  Congress  and  on  a  vaster  scale.  He  remembered  having  read  in  the  volcanic  pages  of  Carlyle  the  fate  of  Anacharsis  Clootz,  that  worshipper  of  the  goddess  Reason  who,  at  the  head  of  thirty-six  foreign-  ers,  addressed  a  [REDACTED]  assembly  as  &quot;mankind's  spokesman.&quot;  Moved  by  this  example,  don  Alejandro  conceived  the  idea  of  calling  together  a  Congress  of  the  World  that  would  represent  all  men  of  all  nations.  The  center  for  the  preliminary  meetings  was  the  Gas-  Lamp  Coffee  House;  the  formal  act  of  inauguration,  which  would  take  place  within  some  four  years,  would  be  held  at  don  Alejandro's  ranch.  Like  so  many  Uruguayans,  don  Alejandro-who  was  no  loverof  Uruguay's  now  national     hero,  Artigas-was  fond  of  [REDACTED]  Aires,  but  he  nonetheless  decided  that  the  Congress  must  eventually  meet  in  his  own  country.  Oddly  enough,  the  four-year  planning  period  was  carried  out  with  a  precision  that  was  almost  magical,  N  the  beginning,  we  were  paid  a  considerable  sum  as  a  per  diem,  but  the  zeal  that  enflamed  us  prompted  Fernandez  Irala-who  was  as  poor  as  I  was-to  renounce  his,  and  all  the  rest  ofus  followed  suit.  This  measure  was  healthy,  since  it  served  to  separate  the  wheat  from  the  chaff;the  number  of  members  was  reduced,  and  only  the  faithful  remained.  The  one  paid  posi-  tion  was  that  of  the  secretary,  Nora  Erfjord,  who  lacked  other  means  of  support  and  whose  work  at  the  same  time  was  staggering.  To  set  up  a  worldwide  organization  is  no  trifling  enterprise.  Letters  came  and  went,  and  so  did  cables  and  telegrams.  Po-  tential  delegates  wrote  from  50657275,  [REDACTED],  and  496e646961.  A  Bolivian  wrote  that  his  country's  lack  of  access  to  the  sea  should  be  a  matter  of  prime  consideration  in  our  first  meetings.  Twirl,  who  had  a  farseeing  mind,  re-  marked  that  the  Congress  involved  a  problem  of  a  philosophical  nature.  Planning  an  assembly  to  represent  all  men  was  like  fixing  the  exact  number  of  Platonic  types-a  puzzle  that  had  taxed  the  imagination  of  thinkers  for  centuries.  Twirl  suggested  that,  with-  out  going  farther  afield,  don  Alejandro  Glencoe  might  represent  not  only  cat-  tlemen  but  also  Uruguayans,  and  also  humanity's  great  forerunners,  and  also  men  with  red  beards,  and  also  those  who  are  seated  in  arm-  chairs,.  Nora  Erfjord  was  Norwegian.  Would  she  rep-  resent  secretaries,  Norwegian  womanhood,  or-more  ob-  viously-all  beautiful  wom-  en?  Would  a  single  engineer  be  enough  to  represent  all  engineers-including  those  of  New  Zealand?  It  was  then,  I  believe,  that  Fermin  broke  in.  &quot;Ferri  represents  the  grin-  gos,&quot;  he  said  in  a  flood  of  laughter.  Don  Alejandro  looked  at  him  se-  verely  and,  in  an  even  voice,  said,  &quot;Mr.  Ferri  is  representative  of  the  im-  migrants  whose  labor  is  building  up  this  country.&quot;  Fermin  Eguren  never  could  bear  the  sight  of  me.  He  took  pride  in  an  assortment  of  things:  in  being  Uru-  guayan;  in  coming  from  old  stock;  in  attracting  women;  in  having  chosen  an  expensive  tailor;  and,  God  knows  why,  inhis  Basque  origin-a  people  who  throughout  history  have  done  lit-  tle  else  than  milk  cows.  An  incident  of  the  most  trivial  sort  sealed  our  enmity.  After  one  of  the  meetings,  Eguren  suggested  that  we  pay  a  visit  to  one  of  the  Junin  Street  brothels.  The  plan  did  not  attract  me,  but,  in  order  not  to  make  myself  the  butt  of  his  jokes,  I  accepted.  We  went  with  Fernandez  Irala.  On  leaving  the  establishment,  we  ran  into  a  huge  specimen  of  a  man.  Eguren,  who  may  have  been  a  bit  drunk,  gave  him  a  shove.  The  stranger  quickly  barred  our  way  and  told  us,  &quot;Whoever  wants  to  leave  is  going  to  have  to  pass  by  this  knife.&quot;  I  remember  the  glint  of  the  blade  in  the  darkness  of  the  long  entrance-  way.  Eguren  drew  back,  visibly  afraid.  I  wasn't  too  sure  of  myself,  but  my  hatred  got  the  best  of  my  fright.  I  reached  into  my  armpit,  as  if  to  draw  out  a  weapon,  and  said  in  a  firm  voice,  &quot;We'll  settle  this  out  on  the  street.&quot;  The  stranger  answered-with  an-  other  voice  now,  &quot;That's  the  kind  of  man  I  like.  I  wanted  to  test  you,  friend.&quot;  Then  he  began  to  laugh  in  a  cordial  way.  &quot;As  to  'friend,  &quot;  I  answered  him,  &quot;that's  what  you  think.&quot;  The  three  of  us  made  our  way  past  him.  The  man  with  the  knife  entered  the  brothel.  I  heard  later  that  his  name  was  Tapia,  or  Paredes,  or  something  of  the  kind,  and  that  he  had  a  reputa-  tion  for  brawling.  Out  on  the  sidewalk,  Irala,  who  had  kept  cool,  slapped  me  on  the  back  and  said,  impressively,  &quot;Among  us  three,  we  had  a  musketeer.  Hail,  d'Artagnan!&quot;  Fermin  Eguren  never  forgave  me  for  having  witnessed  his  backing  down,  I  FEEL  that  now,  and  only  now,  my  story  begins.  The  preceding  pages  have  set  down  no  more  than  the  conditions  that  chance  or  fate  re-  quired  so  that  the  unbelievable  event-  perhaps  the  single  event  of  my  whole  life-might  take  place.  Don  Alejandro  Glencoe  was  always  at  the  center  of  the  Congress,  but  over  a  period  of  time  we  felt,  not  without  misgiving,  that  the  real  president  was  Twirl.  This  singular  character,  with  the  lam-  ing  mustache,  fawned  on  Glencoe  and  even  on  Fermin  Eguren-but  in  such  an  exaggerated  way  that  those  present  would  think  he  was  actually  mocking  the  two.  By  so  doing,  he  never  once  compromised  his  integrity.  Glencoe  la-  bored  under  the  pride  of  his  vast  for-  tune;  Twirl  discovered  that  in  order  " b" to  get  anything  done  it  was  enough  to  suggest  that  its  cost  might  prove  be-  yond  the  president's  means.  It  is  my  suspicion  that  at  the  outset  the  Con-  gress  had  been  nothing  more  than  a  haphazard  sort  of  name.  Twirlwas  continually  proposing  new  areas  of  ex-  pansion,  and  don  Alejandro  always  accepted.  It  was  like  being  at  the  mid-  dle  ofa  spreading  circle,  which  grows  ever  larger  and  always  farther  away.  Twirl  said,  for  example,  that  the  Con-  gress  could  not  get  along  without  a  reference  library,  and  Nierenstein,  who  worked  in  a  bookshop,  went  about  or-  dering  us  the  atlases  of  Justus  Perthes  and  several  extensive  encyclopedias-  all  the  way  from  Pliny's  &quot;Natural  History&quot;  and  Beauvais's  &quot;Speculum&quot;  down  to  the  pleasant  mazes  (I  reread  these  words  with  Fernindez  Irala's  voice)  of  the  illustrious  French  En-  cyclopedists,  of  the  Britannica,  of  Pierre  Larousse,  of  Brockhaus,  of  Larsen,  and  of  Montaner  y  Sim\xc3\xa9on.  I  recall  how  I  reverently  fondled  the  silky  volumes  of  a  certain  Chinese  encyclopedia  whose  finely  brushed  characters  seemed  to  me  more  mysterious  than  the  spots  on  a  leopard's  skin.  As  yet,I  will  say  noth-     ing  of  what  lay  in  store  for  them  and  which  certainly  I  do  not  regret.  DON  ALEJANDRO,  maybe  because  we  were  the  only  ones  who  did  not  try  to  flatter  him,  had  grown  quite  fond  of  Fernandez  Irala  and  me.  He  invited  us  to  spend  a  few  days  at  his  ranch,  La  Caledonia,  where  he  had  a  crew  of  stonemasons  already  at  work.  At  the  end  of  a  long  trip  upriver  by  steamer  and  a  ferry  crossing  on  a  raft,  we  set  foot  one  morning  on  the  Uru-  guay  shore.  We  then  had  to  spend  successive  nights  in  run-down  country  " b"54  saloons,  while  opening  and  shutting  dozens  of  gateways  all  day  along  back  roads  in  the  Cu-  chilla  Negra.  We  made  our  way  in  a  light  car-  riage;  the  countryside  seemed  wider  and  lone-  lier  to  me  than  the  small  farm  where  I  was  born.  I  still  hold  my  two  images  of  the  ranch-  the  one  I  brought  with  me  and  the  one  my  eyes  finally  saw.  Ab-  surdly,  I  had  imagined,  as  in  a  dream,  anim-  possible  combination  of  the  flat  plains  of  Santa  Fe  and  of  the  rather  gaudy  Victorian  Bue-  nos  Aires  Waterworks.  La  Caledonia  was  a  long  adobe  building  with  a  thatched  saddle  roof  and  a  brick-  paved  gallery.  It  appeared  to  be  built  for  hardship  and  endurance.  The  rough  walls  were  nearly  a  yard  thick  and  the  doors  were  narrow.  Nobody  had  ever  thought  of  planting  a  tree.  The  sun's  first  and  last  rays  beat  down  on  the  place.  The  corrals  were  of  stone;  the  cattle  were  many,  scraw-  ny  and  long-horned  ;  the  horses'  switch-  ing  tails  reached  the  ground.  For  the  first  time  in  my  life,  I  knew  the  taste  of  freshly  slaughtered  meat.  Some  sacks  of  sea  biscuit  were  brought  out;a  few  days  later,  the  foreman  told  me  he  had  caten  bread  in  his  life.  Irala  asked  where  the  bathroom  was,  and,  with  a  sweeping  gesture,  don  Alejan-  dro  indicated  the  entire  continent.  It  was  a  moonlit  night;  I  went  out  to  stretch  my  legs,  and  I  surprised  Irala  being  watched  by  an  ostrich.  The  heat,  which  the  night  had  not  dispelled,  was  unbearable,  and  every-  one  praised  the  coolness.  The  rooms  were  low-ceilinged  and  many,  and  scemed  to  me  barely  furnished;  we  were  given  one,  facing  south,  in  which  there  were  two  cots  and  a  dresser  with  a  silver  washbasin  and  pitcher.  The  floor  was  dirt.  The  second  day,  I  came  across  the  library  and  the  volumes  of  Carlyle,  and  I  found  the  pages  dedicated  to  man-  kind's  spokesman,  Anacharsis  Clootz,  who  had  led  me  to  that  morning  and  to  that  loneliness.  After  breakfast,  which  was  identical  with  dinner,  don  Alejandro  showed  us  the  building  un-  der  construction.  We  rode  three  or  four  miles  on  horseback  out  in  the  wide  open.  Irala,  whose  horsemanship  was  shaky,  had  an  accident;  unsmiling,  never   the  foreman  remarked,  &quot;You  Argen-  tines  really  know  how  to  dismount.&quot;  From  way  off,  we  could  see  the  con-  struction  site.  Some  twenty  men  were  at  work  building  a  kind  of  tumble-  down  amphitheatre.  I  recall  a  series  of  stages  and  ladders  and  stone  tiers  with  stretches  of  sky  showing  between.  More  than  once,  I  tried  to  speak  with  the  gauchos,  but  my  efforts  failed.  In  some  way,  they  knew  they  were  dif-  ferent.  Among  themselves,  they  used  a  spare,  guttural  4272617a696cianized  Spanish.  It  was  obvious  that  both  496e646961n  and  Negro  blood  ran  in  their  veins.  They  were  short  and  strong;  at  La  Caledo-  nia,  I  became  a  tall  man-something  that  had  never  happened  to  me  until  then.  i  Almost  all  of  them  dressed.  with  their  legs  wrapped  in  the  chiripa,  and  a  few  wore  the  wide,  baggy  bombachas.  They  had  little  or  nothing  in  common  with  the  complaining  heroes  found  in  the  books  of  Hernindez  or  of  Rafael  Obligado.  Under  the  stimulus  of  Sat-  urday-night  alcohol,  they  were  easily  moved  to  violence.  'There  wasn't  a  single  woman  around,  and  I  never  once  heard  a  guitar.  I  was  more  interested  in  the  change  that  had  come  over  don  Alejandro  than  I  was  in  these  border-country  men.  In  [REDACTED]  Aires,  he  was  a  pleasant,  re-  served  gentleman;  at  La  Caledonia,  like  his  fathers  before  him,  he  became  the  stern  chief  of  a  clan.  Sunday  morn-  ings,  he  read  Holy  Scripture  to  the  hands,  who  did  not  understand  a  single  word.  One  night,  the  foreman,  a  youngish  man  who  had  inherited  the  job  from  his  father,  reported  to  us  that  one  of  the  day  laborers  and  one  of  the  regular  help  were  having  it  out  with  knives.  Don  Alejandro  got  up,  unruf-     NOVEMBER  6G,  19  7  1  fled.  When  he  came  to  the  circle  of  onlookers,  he  drew  out  the  weapon  he  always  carried,  hand-  ed  it  to  the  foreman  (who  appeared  to  me  to  cringe),  and  stepped  between  the  knives.  At  once,  I  heard  the  order,  &quot;Drop  those  knives,  boys.&quot;  With  the  same  calm  voice,  he  added,  &quot;Now  shake  hands  and  behave  yourselves.  I  don't  want  any  brawling  around  here.&quot;  The  two  men  obeyed.  The  next  day,  I  learned  that  don  Alejandro  had  fired  the  foreman.  I  felt  the  loneliness  ringing  me  in,  and  I  began  fearing  I'd  never  get  back  to  [REDACTED]  Aires.  I  wonder  whether  Fer-  nandez  Irala  shared  that  fear.  We  talked  a  lot  about  [REDACTED]  and  what  we'd  do  when  we  returned.  I  missed  the  stone  lions  of  a  certain  gateway  on  Jujuy  Street,  near  the  Plaza  del  Once,  and  the  light  of  a  particular  old  bar  in  some  dim  part  of  town,  but  not  my  familiar  haunts.  Always  a  good  rider,  I  fell  intothe  habit  of  going  out  on  horseback  and  riding  long  distances.  I  still  remember  the  particular  piebald  I  used  to  saddle  up  myself.  On  some  afternoon  or  on  some  night  or  other,  I  probably  was  in  [REDACTED],  since  the  border  was  nothing  but  a  line  traced  out  by  widely  spaced  markers.  Then,  at  the  close  of  a  day  exactly  like  all  the  rest,  don  Alejandro  told  us,  &quot;We'll  turn  in  carly,  Tomorrow  we'll  be  of  while  it's  still  cool.&quot;  Once  down  the  river,  I  felt  so  hap-  py  that  I  was  even  able  to  think  back  to  La  Caledonia  with  affection.  E  took  up  our  Saturday  meetings  again.  At  the  first  one,  Twirl  asked  forthe  floor,.  He  said,  with  his  usual  flowers  of  rhetoric,  that  the  li-  brary  of  the  Congress  of  the  World  could  not  be  limited  to  reference  books  alone,  and  that  the  classical  works  of  all  nations  and  all  languages  were  a  veritable  storehouse  that  we  could  not  safely  afford  to  ignore.  The  suggestion  was  approved  on  the  spot;  Fernandez  Irala  and  Dr.  Ignacio  Cruz,  who  was  a  teacher  of  Latin,  accepted  the  job  of  selecting  the  appropriate  texts.  Twirl  had  already  talked  things  over  with  Nierenstein.  In  thosedays,  there  wasn't  a  single  Argentine  whose  utopia  was  not  [REDACTED].  Perhaps  the  most  enthusiastic  of  us  was  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Fermin  Eguren;  next,  for  quite  dif-  ferent  reasons,  came  Fernandez  Irala.  To  the  poet  of  &quot;The  Marble  Pillars,&quot;  [REDACTED]  was  Verlaine  and  Leconte  de  Lisle,  while  to  Eguren  it  was  an  im-  proved  version  of  Junin  Street.  I  sus-  pect  that  he  had  come  to  some  under-  standing  with  Twirl.  At  a  subsequent  meeting,  Twirl  brought  up  the  ques-  tion  of  what  language  the  members  of  the  Congress  would  use,  arguing  the  feasibility  of  sending  delegates  to  Lon-  donand  [REDACTED]  to  gather  information.  Feigning  impartiality,  he  first  put  up  my  name,  and  then,  as  an  apparent  afterthought,  that  of  his  friend  Eguren.  As  always,  don  Alejandro  agreed.  I  think  I  have  written  that,  in  ex-  change  for  some  lessons  in  Italian,  Wren  had  initiated  me  into  the  study  of  the  inexhaustible  English  language.  As  far  as  possible,  we  did  away  with  grammar  and  with  those  exercises  con-  cocted  for  the  beginner,  and  we  found  our  way  directly  into  poetry,  whose  forms  demand  brevity.  My  first  contact  with  the  language  that  was  to  fill  out  my  life  was  Stevenson's  brave  &quot;Requi-  em.&quot;  Then  came  the  ballads  that  Percy  revealed  to  the  dignified  eighteenth  century.  A  short  while  before  leaving  for  [REDACTED],  I  was  dazzled  by  Swin-  burne-an  experience  that  made  me  begin  to  doubt  (and  to  feel  guilty  about  it)  the  eminence  of  Irala's  Alexandrines,  I  REACHED  [REDACTED]  early  in  January,  1902;  I  remember  the  soft  touch  of  falling  snow,which  I  had  never  before  seen  and  for  which  I  was  grate-  ful.  Luckily,  Eguren  and  I  had  travelled  separately.  I  roomed  at  a  modest  board-  ing  house  behind  the  British  Museum,  where  mornings  and  afternoons  I  studied  in  the  library  in  search  of  a  language  worthy  of  the  Congress  of  the  World.  I  did  not  overlook  univer-  sal  languages,  investigat-  ing  both  Esperanto-which  Lugones  qualifies  as  &quot;im-  partial,  simple,  and  eco-  nomical&quot;-and  Volapiik,  which,  declining  verbs  and  conjugating  nouns,  attempts  to  work  out  all  linguistic  possibilities.  I  also  weighed  the  arguments  in  favor  of  and  against  the  revival  of  Latin,  a  nostalgia  for  which  has  endured  down  through  the  centuries.  I  even  dwelled  on  an  examination  of  John  Wilkins'  analyti-  cal  language,  in  which  the  definition  of  each  word  is  to  be  found  in  the  let-  ters  that  spell  it  out.  It  was  beneath  the  high  dome  of  the  reading  room  that  I  first  met  Beatrice.  This  is  meant  to  be  a  general  his-  tory  of  the  Congress  of  the  World,  not  of  Alejandro  Ferri,  but  the  former  takes  in  the  latter,  just  as  it  takes  in  all  other  histories.  Beatrice  was  tall,  trim,  with  fine  features  and  a  head  of  red  hair  that  might  have  reminded  me-  but  never  did-of  the  shady  Twirl.  She  was  not  yet  quite  twenty.  She  had  come  down  from  one  of  the  northern  counties  to  study  literature  at  the  uni-  versity.  Her  background,  like  mine,  was  humble,  At  that  time,  to  be  of  Italian  stock  in  [REDACTED]  Aires  was  still  to  be  looked  down  on,  but  in  [REDACTED]  I  found  out  that  being  Italian  was  to  many  people  a  romantic  attribute.  Within  a  few  evenings,  we  were  lovers;  I  asked  her  to  marry  me,  but  Beatrice  Frost,  like  Nora  Erfjord,  was  a  fol-  lower  of  the  faith  preached  by  Ibsen,  and  she  did  not  want  to  tie  herself  down  to  anyone.  From  her  lips  came  55  the  word  I  never  dared  speak.  O  nights,  O  darkness  warm  and  shared,  O  love  that  flows  in  shadows  like  some  secret  river,  O  that  instant  of  ecstasy  when  each  is  both,  O  that  ecstasy's  purity  and  innocence,  O  the  coupling  in  which  we  became  lost  soas  then  to  lose  ourselves  in  sleep,  O  the  first  light  of  dawn,  and  I  watching  her.  On  the  rough  [REDACTED]  border,  I  had  been  plagued  by  homesickness;  not  so  in  [REDACTED]'s  red  labyrinth,  which  gave  me  so  many  things.  Despite  the  pre-  texts  I  dreamed  up  to  delay  my  de-  parture,  I  had  to  return  home  at  the  end  of  the  year.  Beatrice  and  I  cele-  brated  Christmas  together.  I  assured  her  that  don  Alejandro  would  invite  her  to  join  the  Congress;  she  an-  swered,  in  an  offhand  way,  that  she  had  always  wanted  to  visit  the  South-  ern  Hemisphere,  and  that  a  cousin  of  hers,  a  dentist,  had  settled  in  Tas-  mania.  Beatrice  did  not  want  to  come  to  the  boat.  Goodbyes,  to  her  way  of  thinking,  were  too  dramatic,  were  a  senseless  feast  of  unhappiness,  and  she  detested  dramatics.  We  parted  in  the  library,  where  we  had  met  the  winter  be-  " b"56  fore.  As  a  man,  I'm  a  coward  ;  to  avoid  the  anguish  of  waiting  for  letters,  I  did  not  leave  her  my  address.  ETURN  trips  are  shorter,  I  have  always  noticed,  but  that  crossing  of  the  Atlantic,  heavy  with  memories  and  anxieties,  seemed  unusually  long.  Nothing  hurt  me  as  much  as  thinking  that,  in  a  parallel  with  my  life,  Beatrice  would  go  on  living  hers,  minute  by  minute  and  night  by  night.  I  wrote  a  lengthy  letter,  destroying  it  as  we  left  Montevideo.  When  I  reached  Ar-  gentina-it  was  on  a  Thursday-Irala  was  waiting  for  me  at  the  dock.  I  went  back  to  my  old  place  on  Chile  Street;  that  day  and  the  nexthe  and  I  spent  together  talking  and  long  walks.  I  wanted  to  recover  [REDACTED]  Aires  again.  It  was  a  relief  to  find  out  that  Fermin  Eguren  was  staying  on  in  [REDACTED];  I  knew  the  fact  of  my  having  come  back  before  him  would  in  some  way  make  up  for  my  long  absence.  Irala  was  downcast.  Fermin  was  squandering  huge  sums  in  Europe  and  had  more  than  once  disobeyed  the  order  to  return  home.  This  was  to  havebeen  foreseen.  I  was  more  disturbed  by  other  news.  Twirl,  in  spite  of  the  opposition  of  Irala  and  Cruz,  had  in-  voked  the  Younger  Pli-  ny,  according  to  whom  there  is  no  book  so  bad  it  does  not  contain  some  good,  and  had  proposed  the  indiscriminate  pur-  chase  of  bound  volumes  of  the  daily  press,  of  thir-  ty-four  hundred  copies  of  &quot;Don  Quixote&quot;  in  various  editions,  of  the  complete  works  of  Gen-  eral  Mitre,  of  Ph.D.  theses,  of  old  account  books,  of  bulletins,  and  of  theatre  programs.  Ev-  erything  gives  witness,  he  had  said.  Nierenstein  backed  him;  don  Ale-  jandro,  &quot;after  three  re-  sounding  Saturdays&quot;  (as  Irala  put  it),  approved  the  motion.  Nora  Erf-  jord  had  resigned  her  position  as  secretary;  it  was  taken  overby  a  new  member,  Karlinski,  who  taking  was  a  tool  of  Twirl's.  The  bulky  packages  began  piling  up  now,  without  files  or  catalogues,  in  the  back  rooms  and  in  the  wine  cellar  of  don  Alejan-  dro's  rambling  old  town  house.  Early  in  July,  Irala  spent  a  week  back  at  La  Caledonia,  where  the  masons  had  broken  off  their  work.  The  foreman,  upon  questioning,  explained  that  that  was  what  the  boss  had  ordered,  and  that  there  would  always  be  time  enough  tomorrow.  In  [REDACTED],  I  had  drafted  a  report  that  there  is  now  no  point  in  going  into.  That  Friday,  I  went  to  pay  a  visit  to  don  Alejandro  and  to  deliver  a  copy  of  what  I  had  written.  Fernindez  Irala  came  with  me.  It  was  early  evening,  and  the  cold  south  wind  blew  into  the  house.  At  the  front  gate,  on  Alsina  Street,  a  delivery  wagon,  pulled  by  three  horses,  stood  waiting.  I  remem-  ber  that  the  deliverymen  were  weighed  down  under  the  loadsthey  went  about  piling  up  in  the  last  patio.  Twirl  was  imperious,  giving  them  orders.  Also  present,  indoors,  as  if  they  had  had  an  inkling  of  something,  were  Nora  Erfjord  and  Nierenstein  and  Cruz  and  Donald  Wren  and  a  few  other  mem-  bersof  the  Congress.  Nora  threw  her  arms  around  me  and  kissed  me,  and  that  embrace  and  that  kiss  made  me  re-  member  others.  The  Negro,  brimming  overwith  good  nature  and  happiness,  kissed  my  hand.  In  one  ofthe  rooms,  the  square  trapdoor  to  the  cellar  was  wide  open;  some  masonry  steps  plunged  down  into  dark-  ness.  Suddenly  we  heard  footsteps.  Before  laying  eyes  on  him,  I  knew  it  was  don  Alejandro.  He  came  almost  on  the  run.  His  voice  was  different.  It  was  not  the  voice  of  the  deliberate  gentleman  who  presided  over  our  Saturdays,  nor  that  of  the  feudal  landowner  who  had  puta  stop  to  a  knife  duel  and  who  preached  the  word  of  God  to  his  gauchos-but  it  seemed  more  like  this  latter.  Without  looking  at  any-  one,  he  ordered,  &quot;Get  ev-  erything  out  that's  packed  away  down  there,  I  don't  want  a  single  book  left  in  that  cellar.&quot;  The  work  went  on  for  nearly  an  hour.  Outside,  on  the  earth  floor  of  the  last  patio,  we  made  a  pile  that  was  taller  than  the  tallest  head.  All  of  us  marched  back  and  forth;  the  only  person  who  failed  to  move  was  don  Ale-  jandro.  Then  came  the  order,  &quot;Now  set  fire  to  that  heap.&quot;  Twirl  went  pale.  Nie-  renstein  blurted,  &quot;How  can  the  Congress  of  the  World  do  without  this  valuablematerial  I've  col-  lected  with  so  much  love?&quot;  &quot;The  Congress  of  the  World?&quot;  said  don  Alejan-  dro.  He  laughed  scorn-  fully.  I  had  never  before  heard  him  laugh.  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  There  is  a  mysterious  pleasure  in  destruction.  The  flames  crackled  brightly,  and  we  all  had  to  press  back  against  the  walls  or  move  in-  doors.  Darkness,  ashes,  and  an  odor  of  burning  were  left  behind  in  the  patio.  I  re-  member  some  undamaged  pages  lying  white  against  the  ground.  Nora  Erfjord,  who  felt  for  don  Alejandro  that  love  which  young  women  often  feel  for  older  men,  said,  without  really  under-  standing,  &quot;Don  Alejandro  knows  what  he's  doing.&quot;  Irala,  always  true  to  litera-  ture,  attempted  an  epigram.  &quot;Every  few  centuries,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;the  Library  of  Alex-  andria  must  be  burned  down.&quot;  Then  the  revelation  was  made  to  us.  &quot;It  taken  me  four  years  to  understand  what  I  am  about  to  say,&quot;  don  Ale-  jandro  began.  &quot;My  friends,  the  undertaking  we  have  set  for  our-  selves  is  so  vast  that  it  embraces-I  now  see-the  whole  world.  Our  Congress  cannot  be  a  group  of  charlatans  deaf-  ening  each  other  in  the  sheds  of  an  out-  of-the-way  ranch.  The  Congress  of  the  World  began  with  the  first  moment  of  the  world  and  it  will  goon  when  we  are  dust.  There's  no  place  on  earth  where  it  does  not  exist.  The  Congress  is  the  books  we've  burned.  The  Con-  gress  is  Job  on  the  ash  heap  and  Christ  on  the  Cross.  The  Congress  is  that  worthless  boy  who  squanders  my  sub-  stance  on  whores.&quot;  I  could  not  hold  myself  back.  &quot;Don  Alejandro,&quot;  I  broke  in,  &quot;I,  too,  am  to  blame.  I  had  finished  my  report,  which  I  now  hand  you,  but  I  staved  on  and  on  in  [REDACTED],  throwing  your  money  away  on  a  woman.&quot;  Don  Alejandro  went  on.  &quot;I  had  al-  ready  guessed  as  much,  Ferri.  The  Congress  is  my  cattle.  The  Congress  is  the  cattle  I  have  sold  and  the  miles  of  land  that  are  no  longer  mine.&quot;  A  horror-stricken  voice  was  raised-  Twirl's.  &quot;You  don't  mean  to  say  you've  sold  La  Caledonia?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  don  Alejandro  said  calmly,  &quot;I've  sold  it.  I  haven'ta  square  foot  of  land  to  my  name,  but  I  do  not  regret  it,  because  now  I  see  things  as  they  are.  Perhaps  we  shall  never  meet  again,  for  the  Congress  stands  in  no  need  of  us.  But  thislast  night  we  will  all  go  out  together  to  see  the  true  Congress.&quot;  Drunk  with  victory,  he  overwhelmed  has  Wily  8.  57     &quot;Don't  be  childish,  man!  Kicking  Toyotas  is  noanswer  to  our  belance-of  -trade  gap.&quot;  us  with  his  resolution  and  faith.  No  one-not  for  a  single  second-thought  he  was  mad.  In  the  square,  we  climbed  into  an  open  carriage.  I  squeezed  myself  onto  the  driver's  seat  beside  the  coachman,  anddon  Alejandro  ordered,  &quot;Mae-  stro,  let's  have  a  turn  around  the  city.  Take  us  anywhere  you  like.&quot;  The  Negro,  perched  on  the  running  board,  never  stopped  smiling.  I'll  never  know  whether  or  not  he  realized  what  was  going  on.     ORDS  are  symbols  that  assume  a  shared  memory.  The  memory  I  now  want  to  set  down  is  mine  alone;  all  those  who  share  it  have  died.  The  mystics  invoke  a  rose,  a  kiss,  a  bird  that  is  all  birds,  a  sun  that  is  all  the  stars  and  the  sun,  a  jug  of  wine,  a  garden,  or  the  sexual  act.  Of  these  metaphors,  none  will  serve  me  for  that  long,  joy-  ous  night,  which  left  us,  tired  out  and  happy,  at  the  borders  of  dawn.  We  barely  spoke  while  the  wheels  and  the  horses'  hooves  clattered  over  the  cob-  blestones.  Before  daybreak,  beside  a  dark,  humble  body  of  water  that  may  have  been  the  Maldonado  or  the  Ria-  chuelo,  Nora  Erfjord's  high  voice  sang  the  ballad  of  Sir  Patrick  Spens,  and  don  Alejandro,  in  a  low  voice  and  out  of  tune,  chimed  in  with  a  few  verses.  The  English  words  did  not  bring  me  Beatrice's  image.  At  my  back,  Twirl  muttered,  &quot;I  wanted  to  do  evil  and  I  have  done  good.&quot;  Something  of  what  we  glimpsed  lives  on-the  reddish  wall  of  the  Recoleta  cemetery,  the  yellowwall  of  a  jail,  a  couple  of  men  dancing  together  at  a  right-angled  street  corner,  a  church  courtyard  with  black  and  white  tiles  and  a  grilled  iron  fence,  a  railway  gate  crossing,  my  house,  a  marketplace,  the  damp  unfathomable  night-but  none  of  these  fleeting  things,  which  may  have  been  others,  now  matter.  What  really  matters  is  having  felt  that  our  plan,  which  more  than  once  we  made  a  joke  of,  really  and  secretly  existed  andwas  the  world  and  ourselves.  Down  through  the  years,  without  much  hope,  I  have  sought  the  taste  of  that  night;  a  few  times  I  thought  I  had  recaptured  it  in  music,  in  love,  in  untrustworthy  mem-  ories,  but  it  has  never  come  back  to  me  except  once  in  a  dream.  When  we  swore  not  to  say  a  word  to  anyone,  it  was  already  Saturday  morning.  I  never  saw  any  of  them  again,  out-  side  of  Irala.  He  and  I  never  spoke  about  the  Congress;  anything  we  might  have  said  would  have  been  a  desecra-  tion.  In  1914,  don  Alejandro  Glencoe  died  and  was  buried  in  Montevideo.  Irala  had  already  passed  away  the  year  before.  Once,  I  ran  across  Nierenstein  on  Lima  Street,  and  we  pretended  not  to  see  each  other.  "