 AS  BLUCHER  LATE  AT  MARATHON  wheel.  Sun  worship  went  on,  in-  volving  the  sacrifice  of  blondes  in  bras  and  primeval  minis.  Cremation  was  practiced,  the  body,  dead  or  alive,  being  pushed  out  to  sea  on  a  raft.  Husbandry  was  primitive.  These  ap-  peared  to  be  a  Mesolithic  people,  living  on  fish,  fruit,  and  the  flesh  of  saurians.  Oil  of  a  thick,  yellowish  kind  was  em-  ployed  to  set  fire  to  a  diplodocus  (or  perhaps  an  iguanodont),  which  came  adrift  from  its  halter  and  threatened  mountainous  havoc.  The  moon  had  not  yet  been  born,  though  the  sun  was  clearly  in  labor  and  flashed  prodigious-  ly.  When  parturition  eventually  took  place,  man,  after  some  momentary  con-  fusion,  took  the  new  orb  in  his  stride.  Its  phases  were  chalked  up  on  therocks,  and  calendar-making  began.  The  first  real  tide  was  for  some  reason  a  good  deal  delayed,  but  when  it  came  it  was  a  whopper.  None  of  the  participants,  man  or  beast,  aged  at  all  during  the  brief  span  of  these  catastrophes.  Thus,  in  short,  the  scenario  of  a  film  called  &quot;When  Dinosaurs  Ruled  the  Earth.&quot;  (Or  was  it  &quot;.  ..  Roamed  the  Earth&quot;?  )  The  title  was  on  the  screen  for  less  time  than  the  name  of  the  hair  stylist,  and  even  that  I  have  forgotten.  But  as  we  are  about  to  voyage  in  some  rather  strange  seas  of  thought,  I  think  we  had  better  break  up  the  stream  of  consciousness  with  a  few  subtitles  of  our  owns;  e.g.:  IT  was  before  the  invention  of  the  REACTION  OF  AN  EDUCATED  MAN  The  natural  reaction  of  an  educated  man  to  this  kind  of  flimflam  is  scorn.  Chronological  fiddling,  up  to  a  point,  is  to  be  expected  in  a  Technicolor  ex-  cursion  into  prehistory;  anyone  who  rose  up  in  the  balcony  and  cried  out,  &quot;You  have  blurred  the  distinction  be-  tween  the  Carboniferous  and  the  Per-  mian,&quot;  would  properly  be  dismissed  as  a  pedant.  But  to  show  man  shoving  stakes  into  a  stegosaurus  stretches  the  credibility  gap  to  something  over  a  hundred  and  thirty  million  years,  which  is  too  much.  The  postdating  of  the  birth  of  the  moon  by  about  four  aeons  is  a  damned  liberty.  WHAT  ABOUT  ORION,  THOUGH  An  educated  man  intent  on  nourish-  ing  his  scorn  by  checking  the  approx-  imate  dates  of  terrestrial  and  celestial  epochs  is  bound  to  get  sidetracked.  When,  for  instance,  was  Orion  born-  or,  anyway,  how  faroff  is  it?  Well,  it  turns  out  that  you  can't  look  up  the  distance  to  Orion,  or  to  any  other  con-  stellation.  You  have  toferret  out  its  individual  stars,  and  the  results  are  highly  unsettling.  Here  is  a  rundown,  at  the  time  ofwriting,of  the  distances  in  light-years  of  the  brightest  jewels  in  Orion's  accoutrements:  Alnitak,  sixteen  hundred;  Bellatrix,  four  hundred  and  seventy;  Betelgeuse,  five  hundred  and  twenty;  Mintaka,  fifteen  hundred;  Ri-  gel,  nine  hundred;  Saiph,  twenty-one  hundred.  Alnilam,  plumb  in  the  middle  of  the  belt,  is  ignored  in  my  table  of  distances,  but  I  have  reason  to  believe  it  is  about  equidistant  with  Alnitak,  give  or  take  a  few  million  million  miles.  Orion,  as  viewed,  is  a  fake.  Bellatrix  is  contemporary  with  Erasmus,  and  one's  view  of  Rigel,  down  there  at  the  tip  of  the  sword,  was  launched  during  the  Battle  of  Hastings.  The  whole  thing  is  a  worse  jumble  of  periods  than  the  Forum  Romanum.  And  if  we  turn  north-  ward  for  a  glance  at  the  Andromeda  Nebula,  we  are  back  in  the  Pliocene  era,  which  is  about  the  gravest  disorien-  tation  that  can  occur  to  the  naked  eye.  VWHITHER  IS  ALL  THILS  To  a  recantation,  actually,  on  a  par  with  Galileo's.  Since  that  vast  anach-  ronistic  agglomeration  we  call  the  l  night  sky  is  generally  accepted  as  a  satisfactory  spectacle,  worth  looking  at  on  a  fine  evening  and  strongly  sug-  gesting  that  it  has  some  kind  of  gen-  uine  and  contemporaneous  existence,  it  is  ridiculous  to  jib  at  a  few  prehistoric  blondes  being  harassed  by  low-flying  pterodactyls.  Light  is  a  two-way  af-  fair,  and  if  our  Jurassic  reptiles  are  now  showing  on  extragalactic  screens  at  around  one  hundred  million  light-  years  away,  while  Joan  of  Arc  is  clear-  ly  and  simultaneously  visible  on  Betel-  geuse,  there  is  no  earthly  or  universal  rea-  son  why  our  own  scenarios  should  not  take  a  broad  view.  Films  like  &quot;When  Dinosaurs  Ruled  the  Earth&quot;  are  seen,  on  reconsideration,  to  be  unnecessarily  conservative.  We  may  as  well,  in  fact,  DO  AS  WE  WOULD  BE  DUNNE  BY  and  draw  up  a  scenario  of  our  own.  What  I  have  in  mind  is  a  conspectus  of  world  history  as  viewed  simultane-  ously  from  various  vantage  points  in  the  universe-wide-screen  stuff,  produced  by  a  Toynbee  rather  than  a  Joseph  E.  Levine.  When  the  action  opens,  it  is  the  Eve  of  Waterloo,  though  unlikely  to  remain  so  for  long.  ScEnE:  A  gaa  ball  in  progress  in  the  Parthenon.  Phidias  is  putting  finishing  touches  to  the  decorations.  Amid  a  gay     " b"52  throng  of  Fourth  Dynasty  Egyptians,  whose  profiles  are  turned  to  the  cam-  cra,  the  tall  figure  of  W  ellington,  un-  mistakable  in  doublet  and  hose,  makes  a  sombre  contrast.  He  is  chatting  with  Cleopatra  and  Lady  Hamilton,  who  wear  their  famous  Quatre  bras.  A  dis-  tant  rumbling  is  heard  without,  and  Pheidippides  gallops  up.  The  Fourth  Ice  Age  is  advancing!  (Dies  of  cold.)  WELLINGTON:  Very  well.  Stand  by  to  repel  hordes  of  woolly  rhinoceroses  coming  down  from  the  north.  The  camera  pans,  if  that  is  the  word,  to  Samuel  Pepys,  busy  at  his  electric  typewriter.  He  serves  as  a  sort  of  con-  tinuity  man,  to  keep  things  in  perspec-  tive,  and  has  just  written  (in  a  manner  clearly  wisible  to  patrons,  even  in  the  cheaper  seats),  &quot;Meanwhile,  in  anoth-  erpart  of  ye  Universe,  threatening  Magellanic  Clouds  are  gathering.&quot;  A  stampede,  for  the  first  time  on  any  screen,  of  woolly  rhinos,  egged  on  by  Geronimo  and  quantities  of  Apaches.  It  must  be  realized,  as  Pepys  will  ex-  plain,  that  at  this  time  the  Thames  and  the  Rhone  flowed  together  into  an  occan  called  Tethys,  completely  cutting  off  the  [REDACTED]  Cavalry  from  what  is  now  Europe.  This  obviates  any  hackneyed  situations  and  raises  hopes  that  the  In-  dians  will  join  W  ellington  in  time.     Enter  Edmund  Burke  at  a  run,  car-  rying  the  sacred  flame  from  Olympia.  (Or  it  could  be  Prometheus,  with  a  badly  pecked  liver.)  Burr:  An  event  has  happened  upon  which  itis  difficult  to  speak,  and  impossible  to  be  silent.  Lapy  HAaAmILTON  (in  some  con-  fusion)  :  Kiss  me,  Thomas  Hardy.  The  action  now  hots  up.  A  group  of  Neanderthalers,  fleeing  southward  in  face  of  a  rumor  that  their  skulls  are  shortly  to  be  measured,  discover  the  source  of  the  Nile;  Archimedes,  in  a  semicomic  interlude,  tries  to  invent  the  wheel,  watched  by  a  crowd  of  jeering  Babylonian  cyclists.  GENERAL  SHERMAN  (keavily  out-  numbered  at  Dismal  Swamp  by  tyran-  nosaurs,  sabre-toothed  tigers,  etc.):  Where  the  devil  did  all  these  come  from?  Harriet  Srowr:  I  'spect  they  just  grow'd,  like  triceratopses.  These  events  throw  Napoleon,  whose  stagecoach  has  already  been  held  up  by  John  Wayne,  behind  schedule,  and  give  an  opportunity  for  a  brief  dialogue  at  HQ.  before  the  decisive  struggle  be-  gins.  Ben  FrankuLIn:  Easy  does  it.  Little  strokes  fell  great  oaks.  GEnErAL  Patron:  If  you  believe  that,  you  can  believe  anything.  Another  part  of  the  Acropolis.  Enter  three  Aurignacian  blondes  pursued  by  Karl  Marx.  The  Age  of  Fishes  be-  gins-in  a  small  way,  at  first.  Roche-  foucauld  gives  vent  to  a  suitable  apho-  rism,  and  a  choir  of  Heavenly  voices  rouses  the  Light  Brigade  to  one  last  as-  sault,  reducing  the  Parthenon  to  its  present  state  and  inflicting  an  even  more  far-reaching  personal  wound.  CrroPraTRA:  I'm  hit,  by  God!  My  nose  is  half  an  inch  shorter.  Wrerrmcron:  By  God,  so  it  is.  The  history  of  the  world  changes,  to  the  evident  delight  of  Pascal.  The  days  lengthen  perceptibly,  and  reports  of  new  galaxies  pour  in  as  fast  as  H.  G.  Wells  can  log  them.  It  is  apparent,  as  people  begin  to  grope  for  their  hats,  that  the  Universe  is  contracting  again  at  speeds  well  in  excess  of  186,000  miles  a  second.  Queen  Victoria,  re-  membering  (in  a  telling  flashback)  his  success  over  the  sparrows  in  the  [REDACTED]  Palace,  asks  [REDACTED]  to  give  his  ad-  vice  in  these  difficult  times.  However,  'D  RATHER  BE  BOILED  IN  HOYLE,  SAYSDUKE  -not  very  meaningfully  perhaps,  but  it  was  high  time  we  had  another  of  those  subtitles  to  wind  up  with. "