 b"RICH  PEOPLE  ARE  HAPPIER  THAN  POOR;  HEALTHY,  HAPPIER  THAN  SICK;  YOUNG,  HAPPIER  THAN  OLD  Y  wife,  Nettie,  and  I  went  to  a  M  party.  We  live  in  a  country  town,  and  there  is  not  much  to  do  when  the  summer  goes  away,  so  a  party  is  a  large  event.  Everyone  had  white  hair  except  the  host  and  the  hostess  and  Nettie  and  me.  The  other  eight  guests  had  white  hair.  We  all  sat  with  our  drinks  and  talked.  An  old  man  beside  me  spoke  about  the  pollution  of  the  river,  and  we  decided  it  wasn't  as  bad  as  it  might  be.  A  plump  old  woman  with  a  Scan-  dinavian  name  said  that  the  fall  had  been  the  most  beautiful  in  her  mem-  ory.  Warm  and  full  of  sun  and  calm.  &quot;Just  unreal,&quot;  she  said.  The  house  was  large  and  beautiful-  mellow.  Nettie  sat  across  the  room,  and  when  she  laughed  her  mouth  opened  wide  and  her  small,  yellowish,  perfect  teeth  shone.  I  loved  her  calmly  then,  for  a  change,  without  desire.  There  was  a  silver  dish  of  canap\xc3\xa9s  near  her  elbow.  I  got  up  and  went  to  her,  excusing  myself  from  a  woman  who  was  trying  to  stay  awake.  Our  host  was  discussing  his  program  for  educating  the  young  who  live  in  the  local,  small-  town  slums-the  same  slums  where  I  grew  up.  He  was  passionate  about  it,  and  he  meant  everything  he  said.  If  there  ever  were  enough  allocated  mon-  ey,  his  kind  of  ideas  would  wipe  out  the  ghetto  in  thirty  years.  When  I  picked  up  a  cracker,  I  touched  Nettie's  hand.  She  smiled,  then  frowned  slightly,  as  if  I  had  com-  mitted  an  indiscretion.  I  turned  to  go  back  to  my  seat.  On  the  way,  I  passed  a  huge,  cloudy  old  mirror  above  one  of  the  sofas.  It  took  up  half  the  wall.  The  room  was  dimly  reflected-  dark  and  light;  candles  glimmered.  Deep  in  the  mirror,  the  people  all  sat  around.  And  then  I  started.  I  couldn't  find  myself.  I  glanced  away  and  felt  the  blood  going  out  of  my  face.  I  looked  cautiously  again.  I  was  there,  but  faded.  Everyone  else  was  sharply  de-  fined-the  beautiful  old  people  with  silver  hair  and  wrinkled  necks,  the  benevolent  host  and  hostess,  Nettie.  They  all  drank  and  smoked  and  ges-  tured.  Jewels  glittered  on  one  woman.  I  was  almost  invisible.  Disturbed,  I  went  back  to  my  chair.  The  woman  on  my  left  was  enthusi-  astically  talking  about  a  villa  a  friend  of  hers  was  building  in  [REDACTED].  Her  husband  began  a  discussion  about  the  repressive,  retrogressive  politics  of  that  country.  I  didn't  say  anything.  I  was  frightened.  On  the  way  out,  saying  good  night,  I  glanced  at  the  mirror  again.  Now  my  image  was  strong,  sharp.  I  was  there-  tall,  thin,  dark.  I  can't  describe  the  re-  lief  I  felt.  It  was  almost  a  kind  of  ec-  stasy.  &quot;Thank  God,&quot;  I  said.  The  hostess  looked  at  me  quizzi-  cally.  &quot;Thank  you.  A  nice  party,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Thank  you  for  asking  us.  We'll  see  you  soon.&quot;  Outside,  it  had  been  raining.  The  air  was  still  very  wet,  and  we  brushed  past  green  bushes  heavy  with  rain.  Driving  home,  I  told  Nettie  about  the  mirror.  &quot;Could  you  see  me  clearly  in  there?&quot;  I  asked  her.  &quot;Oh,  Alex,  don't  be  silly.&quot;  &quot;Could  you  see  yourself?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  think  so.&quot;  When  we  got  to  our  apartment,  we  went  right  to  bed.  &quot;What  do  you  make  of  it?&quot;  I  asked  her.  She  said,  &quot;I  think  you  were  very  tired.  Don't  worry  about  it,  dear.&quot;  And  she  fell  asleep.  It  took  me  a  long  time  to  go  to  sleep  myself.  I  got  up  twice  and  looked  into  the  full-length  bathroom  mirror.  I  was  there,  all  right-hard  and  clear.  Forty-one  years  old;  stripped,  bags  un-  der  my  eyes,  big  hook  nose.  I  reached  out  and  touched  the  mirror.  My  hand.  I  went  back  to  bed,  and  the  last  thing  I  thought  about  was  that  it  was  some  kind  of  punishment,  a  way  of  letting  me  know  how  I  have  isolated  myself,  a  warning  to  beware  of  too  much  self-  attention.  [REDACTED]  summer  afternoon,  it  was  too  cloudy  to  go  to  the  beach,  and  Nettie  and  I  went  for  a  drive  in  the  countryside.  We  made  a  huge  circle,  perhaps  eighty  miles  in  circumference,  in  this  place  we  both  know  best.  We  went  inland  a  ways-past  lush  hills,  an  olive-green  barn  and  silo  stained  dark  by  drizzle,  into  a  little  village  full  of  white  houses,  a  green,  a  square-  top  church.  Sitting  silent  together  in  the  car,  we  drove  back  down  by  the  river  to  the     45  sea.  Nettie  asked  me  what  I  was  think-  ing.  I  said,  &quot;Nothing.  What  about  you?&quot;  She  shook  her  head  and  closed  her  eyes.  The  radio  played  softly.  I  had  been  thinking  about  making  love  with  her  in  the  damp  heat,  and  somehow  it  had  seemed  depressing,  but  I  didn't  tell  her.  Our  own  town  on  thesea  looked  very  organized  and  collected  and  de-  veloped  after  the  country  drive.  We  stopped  at  a  dairy  bar  and  bought  ice-  cream  cones  and  then  drove  to  the  sandy  shore  road  to  eat  them.  I  parked  beside  the  seawall,  near  the  long  beach,  where  there  were  wild  roses  growing  on  the  edge  of  the  road.  We  could  see  the  sand  and  the  sea  over  the  low  wall.  Actually,here  thesea  is  a  bay,  and  it  is  normally  quiet;  small  waves  lap  at  the  soft  white  sand.  On  this  day,  though,  there  was  a  strong  southeast  wind,  and  large  chunky  green-and-white  waves  tilted  into  shore  and  shattered.  It  was  misty  on  the  beach;  even  the  lighthouse  was  prac-  tically  invisible.  Out  in  the  bay,  the  foghorns  were  sounding.  We  rolled  down  the  windows  and  ate  the  ice  cream,  crunching  the  papery  cones  be-  tween  our  teeth.  Suddenly  a  teen-age  boy  appeared  on  the  shoreline,  running.  He  had  long  dark  hair,  shining  wet,  which  bounced  in  a  large  mass  as  he  pumped  his  legs.  He  was  tan  and  strong,  and  his  cut-  off  dungarees  were  soaked.  A  Sunfish  emerged  from  the  mist  at  the  edge  of  the  water.  Two  young  girls  crouched  on  it,  and  they  shouted  to  the  running  boy-wisecracks  about  his  starring  on  the  football  team.  He  laughed  and  spoke  to  one  of  them  by  name.  Then  the  flat  little  board  with  its  puffed  sail  turned  out  into  the  bay  and  disappeared  in  the  mist.  The  boy  stood  for  a  mo-  ment  with  his  feet  in  the  water.  He  lifted  a  long  curly  piece  of  maroon  sea-  weed  with  one  foot,  turned,  and  began  jogging  again.  We  were  parked  not  far  from  one  end  of  the  beach,  and  in  a  little  while  he  reappeared  and  again  ran  down  the  beach  before  us,  until  he  was  invisible.  We  sawhim  do  this  perhaps  a  half-  dozen  times.  I  said,  &quot;He  must  have  a  lot  of  guts  to  work  out  like  that  in  the  summer-  time.  Maybe  he  does  want  to  bea  foot-  ball  star.&quot;  A  wet,  rich  stink  of  protein  decay  passed  through  the  car.  I  thought  how  strong  and  young  the  boy  was,  and  that  I  was  old.  I  told  myself,  &quot;That's  foolish.  I  won't  be  old  for  a  long  time.&quot;  But  the  damage  was  done.  I  thought  of  joint  and  muscle  aches  that  had  re-  " b"46  cently  begun  for  no  reason  at  all,  more  gray  hair,  deepening  lines  on  the  face  that  did  not  go  away  now.  Then  I  remembered  what  my  father  had  said  to  me  not  long  before.  We  were  in  a  restaurant,  and  I  had  spo-  ken  about  getting  old  and  dying,  re-  ferring  to  some  carefree  young  people  at  the  next  table.  My  father,  who  is  in  his  late  seventies,  said,  &quot;I  don't  wor-  ry.  It  doesn't  bother  me  anymore.  They  will  all  follow.&quot;  At  the  time,  that  had  been  a  great  solace,  and  now  I  said  it  to  myself.  &quot;They  will  all  fol-  low.&quot;  The  strong  boy  appeared  again,  still  jogging.  As  if  it  were  me,  I  could  feel  the  sand  as  it  packed  in  under  my  bare  feet-gritty,  cold.  And  the  wind.  Once,  it  would  have  been  invigorating.  Today,  I  could  never  do  this  running  thing.  He  was  young  and  powerful;  my  life  was  more  than  half  over.  &quot;They  will  all  follow.&quot;  It  didn't  work.  I  asked  Nettie  if  she  wanted  to  go  home  now,  and  she  said  yes,  and  we  left  the  seawall  and  the  running  boy.  WENT  to  the  supermarket  to  pick  up  a  small  bottle  of  vanilla  extract  and  a  carton  of  cigarettes.  I  was  stand-  ing  in  line  at  the  express  counter,  and  there  were  two  women  chattering  in  front  of  me.  Well,  for  Christ's  sake.  One  of  them  was  my  teacher  from  the  third  grade.  Miss  Oates.  Over  thirty  years  ago,  and  I  still  recognized  her.  She  just  looked  a  little  older.  She  had  a  package  of  hamburger  and  a  white  plastic  bottle  of  bleach,  and  she  was  talking  rapidly  with  this  other  woman.     I  wanted  to  speak  to  Miss  Oates.  I  hadn't  seen  her  for  maybe  twenty  years,  and  I  hadn't  spoken  to  her  for  thirty.  A  girl  in  atan  smock  rang  up  the  purchases,  and  when  she  got  to  mine  she  was  out  of  quarters.  She  left  the  register;  she  took  a  long  time.  When  I  finally  got  out,  Miss  Oates  and  her  friend  had  moved  out  into  the  parking  lot  and  were  standing  beside  a  small  car,  still  talking.  I  waited  under  the  big  metalcano-  py.  It  was  chilly,  with  a  raw  wind  blowing.  I  smelled  lilacs-a  faint,  de-  lirious  smell.  I  looked  over  the  wood  fence  that  bordered  thevast  parking  lot,  and  all  I  sawwere  maples  and  privet  hedges.  No  lilac.  I  thought,  I  might  as  well  leave.  This  is  stupid  anyway.  A  forty-year-  old  guy  taking  up  the  time  of  an  old  retired  schoolteacher.  Just  as  I  was  heading  toward  my  car,  the  conversa-  tion  broke  up.  Miss  Oates  walked  to  her  car,  and  when  she  had  it  unlocked  and  the  door  open  I  reached  her.  I  said,  &quot;Excuse  me.  I  don't  know  if  you  remember  me  or  not,  but  I  had  you  in  the  third  grade.  Ritter.  Alex  Ritter.&quot;  She  looked  at  my  face  and  frowned.  Then  she  said,  &quot;Oh,  yes.  Now  I  re-  member.  But  you  were  a  chubby  little  boy.  I'm  glad  you  spoke.  I  wouldn't  have  recognized  you.  There  were  three  or  four  of  you  boys,  as  I  recall.  You  were  all  cute  little  fellows.  And  you're  all  grown  up  now,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said,  feeling  foolish.  &quot;There  were  four  altogether.  Three  boys  and  a  girl.&quot;  OCTOBER  30,  197  1  &quot;I've  seen  some  of  you  in  recent  years  once  in  a  while  down-  town.&quot;  &quot;My  brothers  and  my  sister  don't  live  here  anymore.  They've  sort  of  scattered  around  the  country.  But  I  can't  seem  to  leave  this  town.  I  don't  know  what  holds  me  here.&quot;  &quot;&quot;No,  I  never  could,  cither.  Some  of  us  are  like  that.&quot;  As  she  talked,  I  no-  ticed  that  she  was  not  the  Miss  Oates  I  re-  membered.  Close  up,  she  was  ancient.  Her  eyes  were  cloudy,  her  color  gone.  Her  hair  was  dyed  unevenly  red,  poorly;  her  freckled  neck  hung  in  delicate  cords.  And  she  had  a  noticeable  hunch  to  her  back.  I  said,  &quot;You  were  the  best  teacher  I  ever  had.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;Isn't  that  lovely  to  say,  after  all  these  years.  I  daresay  you  had  a  lot  of  teachers  after  the  third  grade.&quot;  &quot;I  mean  it,  though.  You  were  the  first  teacher  to  take  an  interest.  You  knew  something  was  wrong,  and  you  made  allowances  for  it.&quot;  Her  expression  went  from  slow  con-  fusion  to  understanding.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;How  is  she,  how  is  your  mother?&quot;  &quot;She  died  in  the  hospital  eight  years  ago.  She  was  sick  right  up  to  the  end.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry  to  hear  that.  You  boys  did  very  well,  considering  the  circum-  stances.  I  don't  remember  a  girl.  Per-  haps  I  never  taught  her.  But  youve  done  well.  I  think  I  read  something  in  the  paper  about  you  not  long  ago.  What  was  it?&quot;  &quot;Maybe  about  setting  up  the  new  law  offices.  I've  gone  in  withBlack-  burn,  Lemper  &amp;  Stein.  They've  taken  me  in  as  a  full  partner.&quot;  &quot;That  was  it.  Isn't  that  wonderful.  And  you're  married.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  No  children.&quot;  I  don't  know  why  I  added  it,  except  that  people  al-  ways  ask.  Miss  Oates  was  getting  tired,  I  could  see  that.  She  murmured,  &quot;Yes...  yes  ...&quot;  the  way  people  do  when  they  want  to  go,  when  everything's  been  said.  I  should  have  left.  But  I  can  never  get  enough  of  a  thing,  or  of  a  person,  or  ofa  relationship,  no  matter  how  small  or  tenuous.  I  wantmore  than  " b"THE  43616e616461W  YORKER  there  can  possibly  be.  I  said,  &quot;You  taught  me  long  division.  And  how  to  read  rapidly  and  well.  And  you  used  to  teach  us  those  Safety  songs,  from  a  big  flat  yellow  book  you  had-songs  about  careful  ice-skating,  and  one  called  'Don't  Play  Near  the  Railroad  Tracks.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;You  have  a  fine  memory.&quot;  &quot;You  would  stand  at  the  piano  and  give  us  the  key,  and  we  would  sing.  It  was  beautiful.&quot;  She  was  tall  and  straight  then,  and  had  high  coloring,  and  her  eyes  twin-  kled.  With  strong  hands,  surely,  posi-  tively,  she  stood  beside  the  piano  in  a  green  wool  suit  and  struck  a  perfect  chord.  We  sang.  The  sun  came  in  through  the  windows.  The  room  in  that  big  brick  school  faced  south,  so  it  was  always  bright.  &quot;We  all  liked  you.  We  used  to  give  you  a  surprise  party  for  any  occasion  we  could  dream  up,  and  you  had  to  ask  us  not  to  do  it  anymore  because  the  principal  wasn't  too  happyabout  it.&quot;  &quot;Well,  aren't  you  dear  to  recall  all  that.&quot;  She  shivered.  I  said,  &quot;I'm  sorry.  I  shouldn't  have  kept  you  out  in  this  wind.  I  didn't  realize  I  was  doing  it.&quot;  &quot;That's  all  right.&quot;  &quot;No,  it  isn't.  But  I  had  to  talk  to  you.  I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  silly.  It  was  a  pleasure.  All  kinds  of  young  people  stop  me  and  talkto  me,  and  they're  all  very  nice.  Some  even  come  to  see  me.  I  live  at  the  Squire  Hotel.  Still.  Forty-three  years  now.  I  have  two  rooms  there-a  lovely  sitting  room.  Why  don't  you  come  and  have  tea  sometime?&quot;  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  &quot;It  was  nice  to  talk  with  you  again.&quot;  Her  hands  trem-  bled.  &quot;I've  been  quite  sick,  but  now  I'm  all  right,  and  I  can  see  people.  The  doctor  said.  Come  by,  and  bring  your  wife.  I'm  all  right.  I'm  all  right.&quot;  She  smiled  and  got  into  her  car.  Sunk  down,  peering  over  the  steering  wheel,  she  drove  slowly  out  of  the  parking  lot.  I  stoodthere  and  felt  angry.  I  don't  know  why.  Then  I  smelled  lilacs  again,  and  still  I  could  see  no  lilac  bushes  anywhere.  I  walked  to  my  car.  Goddam  fool.  It  wasn't  what  I  had  anticipated.  But  whatwas  that?  The  past,  no  matter  how  insignificant,  was  impossible  to  recapture.  I  had  done  something  small,  rather  gro-  tesque,  futile.  I  drove  away.  Now  I  was  more  melancholy  than  angry.  What  I  want-  ed  was  to  be  eight  again,  a  child  in  a  miserable  home  in  the  slums.  I  want-  ed  to  sit  in  Miss  Oates's  room-to  be  warm,  secure,  loved  there.  I  wanted  to  see  Aer-healthy,  alive,  standing  at  the  piano,  striking  the  perfect  chord.  43616e616461TTIE  had  to  go  to  New  Jersey  today  to  visit  her  grandmother,  ninety-one  years  old  and  dying.  It  was  our  first  long  separation  in  eight  years  of  married  life.  We  had  a  violent  northeaster  all  day.  The  storm  began  right  after  I  put  Nettie  on  the  train.  The  wind  came  in  thick  gusts.  I  was  aware  of  it  in  the  courthouse  because  of  windows  rattling,  trees  outside  flailing.  But  I  really  noticed  it  when  I  got  home.  From  our  apartment  on  the  eleventh  floor,  you  can  see  the  harbor  and  the  whole  town  far  away.  The  bridge  up  the  river  had  its  lights  knocked  out,  and  the  water  was  so  rough  that  there  wereno  reflections;  it  looked  partic-  ularly  black  and  menacing,  like  the  edge  of  the  world.  At  the  mouth  of  the  river,  only  [REDACTED]  light  still  pulsed  white  in  the  darkness.  Directly  below,  little  moored  boats  bobbed  in  the  marina.  The  noise  of  their  haw-  sers  was  shrill  and  constant,  like  peep     PV,  frogs  in  March.  Late-autumn  leaves  flew,  and  when  they  landed  they  mat-  ted  in  a  mosaic  on  the  black  wet  road.  I  sat  in  the  window  and  watched,  eating  some  cold  chicken  Nettie  had  left  for  me.  Then  I  put  on  old  baggy  clothes  and  drove  to  the  shopping  center  to  pick  up  the  vacuum  cleaner,  which  had  been  repaired.  A  mob  of  people  rushed  about  in  the  pounding  wind  and  rain.  It  was  like  an  adventure.  On  the  way  home,  I  took  a  shortcut  to  avoid  stoplights.  I  went  through  dark  narrow  streets  full  of  huge  trees  that  had  heaved  up  their  sidewalks  years  ago  and  leaned  together  at  the  top.  Near  an  old  arched  and  vaulted  brick  school,  I  had  to  stop  at  a  little  intersection.  There  were  branches  ly-  ing  in  the  street,  and  a  deep  puddle  ahead.  I  glanced  at  a  tall  Victorian  house  that  was  all  lit  up.  I  had  not  noticed  it  before,  and  I  thought  the  lights  looked  cozy  in  the  storm.  As  the  car  sloshed  through  the  puddle,  I  looked  left  into  the  curtainless  win-  dows  ofthe  big  house.  A  lot  of  old  people  in  there,  people  of  both  sexes,  white-haired,  bald,  bent  over,  were  gathering  around  a  table.  I  assumed  that  they  were  going  to  eat.  I  was  appalled.  I  drove  on,  but  I  felt  compelled  to  go  around  the  block  and  return.  Now  the  house  was  ghoul-  ish  in  the  storm,  full  of  turrets  and  porches  and  gables.  It  had  been  sided      " b"48  with  cheap  white  &quot;brick&quot;  shingles.  There  was  a  white  sign  hanging  out  front,  with  a  small  hooded  light  il-  luminating  it,  flapping  in  the  wind:  &quot;SunnyvirEw  HEeicHTs.&quot;  A  convalescent  home.  There  were  no  heights,  no  sunny  view.  I  went  through  the  puddle  more  slowly  this  time.  Old  people  were  still  arriving  in  the  bare  room  for  dinner.  They  moved  as  if  they  were  in  a  play;  they  nodded  and  gestured,  and  pulled  out  chairs,  and  behind  the  panes  of  glass  they  seemed  to  be  talking  and  enjoying  one  another's  company.  'They  were  all  wearing  cardigan  sweaters.  I  drove  on.  I  felt  chilled,  numbed.  I  passed  cautiously  over  the  leaves  in  the  road-they  could  be  slick.  When  I  got  to  the  apartment  build-  ing,  I  hustled  in  with  the  vacuum  cleaner  and  took  the  elevator  up.  There  was  no  one  around.  I  made  a  large  drink  and  sat  by  the  window  again  and  watched  the  wind  knock  the  water  against  the  seawall.  Scores  of  cars  passed  by  on  the  road  out  front,  back  and  forth;  people  were  going  along  the  shore  to  see  how  much  damage  had  been  done.  I  was  glad  tosee  them.  I  thought  of  going  to  a  bar.  I  even  thought  of  picking  up  a  girl  and  bring-  ing  her  home.  I  have  never  had  an  affair.  I  dismissed  the  idea  long  ago.  Too  much  bother,  too  much  pain  for  everyone  concerned.  The  image  of  a  naked  young  girl  with  me  here  in  the  apartment  persisted-a  scene  of  vio-  lent  lovemaking  to  go  with  the  storm.  I  had  another  drink.  I  read  a  little.  The  naked  girl  flickered  and  stopped.  It  was  very  quiet  in  the  apartment.  Deathly.  I  listened  at  the  door.  Noth-  ing.  I  pressed  &quot;Speak&quot;  at  the  doorbell  and  listened,  and  there  was  no  voice  out  there,  no  sound  except  the  wind.  I  thought  of  Sunnyview  Heights.  I  opened  the  apartment  door.  The  long,  carpeted  hall  was  still,  empty.  All  the  blank  doors  faced  one  another.  I  stood  in  the  open  doorway  and  thought  it  was  all  like  a  Chirico,  this  hall,  with  me  a  part  of  it.  We  don't  know  any  of  the  neighbors,  or  even  what  they  do.  We  just  say  hello  when  we  pass  one  another,  or  talk  of  the  weather  in  the  elevators.  Everything  is  mechanical  in  the  building.  As  I  stood  there,  I  heard  locks  clicking,  doors  shutting  far  away,  a  dishwasher  rumbling  somewhere  above.  The  elevators  hummed,  stopped  on  other  floors.  An  incinerator  door  clanged,  Then  silence.  No  sound  of  a  human  voice.  I  stepped  back  into  the  apartment,  locked  the  door,  had  a  straight  bourbon,  and  went  to  bed.   Nettie  called  at  eleven  o'clock.  She  said,  &quot;Nana  died  at  ten-thirty  in  her  sleep.&quot;  She  asked  me  what  I  was  do-  ing,  and  I  told  her  I  was  in  bed  with  a  blonde,  and  she  said  it  wasn't  a  time  for  that  kind  ofjoke.  She  told  me  she  missed  me  and  would  be  home  the  day  after  tomorrow.  She  mentioned  the  storm;  there  had  been  flashflooding  along  the  Jersey  shore.  After  our  conversation,  I  did  some-  thing  I  haven't  done  for  many,  many       563  -EvereEtTE  H.  Manpox  years,  something  odd  for  a  married  man  my  age.  I  went  to  the  study  and  took  out  the  strongbox,  and  from  be-  neath  the  insurance  policies,  the  few  stock  certificates,  a  copy  of  our  will,  two  bankbooks,  I  removed  three  faded  pornographic  playing  cards.  No  one  knew  I  had  them.  I  got  back  into  bed  and  stared  at  the  naked  couples,  trios.  I  shuffled  the  cards  rapidly,  nervously,  in  the  silent  room.  I  had  had  these  cards  since  I  was  a  boy  in  high  school.  I  stole  them  from  my  best  friend  when  I  was  about  sixteen.  He  was  very  handsome,  and  he  used  to  tell  me  in  my  back  hall  about  all  his  conquests.  I  thought  if  I  kept  these  pictures  I  would  magically  take  onsome  of  his  beauty  and  his  power.  It  hardly  worked,  but  I  kept  the  pictures  anyway  and  used  them  by  myself  locked  up  in  the  bathroom.  Now  I  stared  at  the  cards  and  " b"  moved  them  in  the  same  ritualistic  or-  der  I  had  always  done.  Nothing  hap-  pened.  They  did  not  excite  me.  They  made  me  laugh.  I  got  up,  flushed  them  down  the  toilet,  and  went  back  to  bed.  After  tossing  for  a  long  time,  I  took  two  pills  and  finally  went  to  sleep.  &amp;  OW  was  the  open  house?&quot;  I  asked  Nettie.  &quot;You  didn't  miss  much,&quot;  she  said.  A  local  stockbroker  and  a  friend,  Jim  Barnett,  had  opened  new  offices  in  a  restored  nineteenth-century  man-  sion.  We  have  a  little  money  left  over  now,  and  I  decided  recently  that  we  should  start  putting  something  away  with  him  for  our  old  age.  I  had  had  to  go  to  New  York  the  day  ofthe  party,  so  Nettie  went  alone.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;they  didn't  even  have  gin.  It  was  hot  and  lovely  out,  and  it  was  a  garden  party,  right  in  that  little  sunken  plot  between  the  big  old  houses.  I  would  have  loved  a  gin-and-tonic.  I  had  to  settle  for  Scotch.  &quot;I  got  there  late  and  stood  around  the  edges  alone,  but  I  didn't  mind.  Of  course,  Jim  Barnett  came  over,  and  he  was  very  polite  and  kind,  and  he  told  me  to  have  you  stop  by  the  office  when  you  could.  I  think  he  already  had  a  head  start  with  the  drinks,  be-  cause  he  saidto  me  out  of  the  corner  of  his  mouth,  'Did  you  ever  see  such  a  collection?&quot;  ''There  were  a  lot  of  people,  some  of  them  really  richk-you  could  tell.  One  old  lady  in  a  beautiful  beige  linen  suit  and  brown  shoes  with  flaps  on  them  could  just  about  make  it  down  the  big  stone  steps,  but  then  she  had  a  Scotch-on-the-rocks,  and  she  laughed  and  talked  in  this  croaking  voice  with  Jim  for  a  while,  and  then  she  creaked  up  the  steps  and  left,  just  as  the  sun  was  beginning  tocool.  &quot;A  couple  of  men  came  up  to  me  and  made  a  pass.  They  were  on  the  make  all  over  the  place.  I  just  had  one  drink  and  left.  &quot;There  was  one  funny  thing.  Not  funny.  No.  You  remember  Lilly  Tourjee,  who  teaches  botany  at  the  college?  Well,  she  came  just  before  I  left.  She's  the  one  who  married  Morton  Fleming  only  a  couple  of  years  back-he  died  two  weeks  ago.  It  was  a  late  marriage-she's  not  young.  A  dear  person,  really.  I  never  met  one  more  gentle.  I  can't  imagine  she  was  there,  unless  it  was  to  her  mind  off  things.  She  came  with  a  lady-I  don't  know  who  she  was.  Lilly  Tourjee  was  next  to  me;  her  friend  was  talking  with  a  couple  of  insurance  sharks.  Lilly,  poor  thing,  she  stood  there  by  herself  all  gaunt  and  small.  I  said,  'Excuse  me,  aren't  you  Mrs.  Fleming?&quot;  I  told  her  who  I  was  and  that  I  had  had  her  for  botany  fif-  teen  years  ago-what  a  good  course  it  was.  She  just  looked  at  the  ground  and  smiled  a  little.  She  said  she  remem-  bered  me,  that  I'd  been  a  fine  student,  but  I  don't  think  she  remembered  me  at  all.  I  didn't  mention  her  husband,  naturally.  I  asked  her  if  she'd  like  a  drink,  and  she  said  no  in  this  distracted  way.  She  looked  so  pale  and  hazy.  I  guess  she  was  under  some  kind  of  seda-  tion.  She  didn't  have  any  makeup  on  any-  why  take     no  lipstick,  even.  Her  lips  looked  chapped.  &quot;Her  friend  came  over  with  a  drink,  and  she  asked  Lilly  in  a  loud  voice  if  she  was  all  right.  Lilly  said  that  she  was  perfectly  fine,  fine.  She  didn't  look  up,  and  the  lady  winked  at  " b" me  and  made  an  exaggerated  sad  face  and  went  back  to  her  men.  &quot;We  talked  about  the  weather-  how  beautiful  it  was-and  I  couldn't  think  of  a  thing  more  to  say.  We  just  stood  there,  and  I  told  her  I  had  to  leave  pretty  soon.  Then  out  of  the  blue  she  said  to  me,  'Did  you  happen  to  read  the  Times  today?&quot;  Isaid  no.  She  said,  'I  read  the  silliest  article  in  there  today.  It  seems  the  federal  government  in  [REDACTED]  has  just  completed  a  big  study  on  the  subject  of  happiness.  You  know--what  causes  happiness,  or  unhappiness,  I  forget.  The  government  spent  something  like  three  hundred  thousand  dollars  on  this  long  study,  and  doyou  know  what  their  conclusions  were?  That  rich  people  are  happier  than  poor.  That  healthy  people  are  happier  than  sick.  Young  people  happier  than  old.  And  so  forth.  Isn't  that  something?  Isn't  that  the  silliest  thing  you  ever  heard  in  your  life?&quot;  At  that  point,  she  started  to  cry.  I  put  my  arm  around  her  and  tried  to  comfort  her,  but  she  cried  harder,  only  she  didn't  make  any  noise.  I  caught  her  friend's  eye,  and  she  came  over,  put  down  her  glass,  and  led  her  away,  up  the  steps  to  the  sidewalk.  &quot;It  was  awful.  I  could  hardly  keep  from  crying  myself.  Jim  Barnett  came  up  to  me  and  said  it  was  a  shame,  that  she  was  a  fine  woman.  That  she  had  been  very  happily  married  only  a  little  while.  &quot;Then  this  woman  next  to  me  leans  over  and  says  confidentially,  'It's  all  right,  he  left  her  quite  well  off.?  &quot;I  just  looked  away  and  started  toward  the  steps.  Jim  came  along.  I     thanked  him  for  the  nice  party,  and  he  said  it  was  his  pleasure.  When  he'd  walked  me  a  ways,  he  looked  back  and  said,  'People  like  her  should  be  shot.&quot;  &quot;From  the  sidewalk,  I  looked  down  into  the  little  garden.  When  I  left,  ev-  eryone  was  still  standing  there,  all  dressed  up,  drinking  and  shouting  in  the  gloom.&quot;  ON  my  way  uptown  today,  I  passed,  as  usual,  through  the  slums.  In  order  to  go  from  the  residential  part  of  town  to  the  business  district,  you  have  to  pass  through  the  slums.  I  spent  my  childhood  in  this  neigh-  borhood.  The  streets  are.  narrow,  crowded  with  shingled,  symmetrical  wooden  houses  from  around  1840,  with  peaked  roofs,  large  square  chim-  neys,  and  fan  windows.  Very  few  trees.  There  is  a  synagogue-now  closed,  filled  with  pigeons  and  swallows-  and  a  heavy  granite  Catholic  church  still  in  use.  All  the  houses  seem  to  stand  so  that  they  receive  the  poorest,  the  most  depressing  light.  There  are  great  patches  of  ragweed.  A  lot  of  gas  stations  make  grease  spots  on  the  sidewalks,  in  the  gutters.  The  gas  sta-  tions  are  old  and  look  like  little  Holly-  wood  sets-Mediterranean  stucco,  with  red  or  green  tile  roofs.  Very  little  has  changed  inthis  neigh-  borhood  since  I  was  a  boy.  Wholesale  businesses  in  heavy  square  brick  build-  ings  are  still  there-produce,  beer,  plumbing  supplies,  canned  goods.  The  three-family  wooden  house  I  grew  up  in  is  intact,  if  shabbier,  with  some  windows  boarded  over,  its  front  door  fading,  with  a  handle  for  a  door-  knob.  The  major  change  is  in  the  people  who  live  there.  When  I  was  small,  the  slums  were  filled  with  Italians,  Irish,  Poles,  Leba-  nese,  Jews.  Now  they  have  all  moved  out  and  up,  and  they  have  been  replaced  en-  tirely  by  Negroes  and  [REDACTED]  Ricans.  On  my  way  to  work  to-  day,  I  looked  at  the  streets,  and  I  really  saw  them  for  the  first  time  in  years.  I  saw  how  gray  they  were,  and  desolate.  There  were  pa-  pers,  cardboard,  aluminum  foil,  beer  cans  in  the  gut-  ters.  Empty  wine  and  whis-  key  bottles  stood  in  small  empty  doorways.  A  little  park  lay  barren,  trampled,  only  a  few  laurel  bushes  in  it  trying  to  be  green.  And  I  knew  it  was  all  the  same  as  it  had  been  when  I  was  a  child.  Noth-  ing  was  different.  Driving  slowly  in  the  early-morn-  ing  sun,  I  saw  three  very  small  children  playing.  They  were  [REDACTED]  Rican-two  girls  and  a  boy.  The  girls  wore  grownups'  clothes-long  pink  and  green  satiny  dresses,  wobbly  silver  high-heeled  shoes,  red  and  blue  ban-  dannas  tied  about  their  heads.  The  three  of  them  moved  around  a  parking-  meter  pole,  which  was  taller  than  they  were.  With  their  arms  straight  and  used  as  spokes,  they  whirled  around  the  pole,  fast,  their  heads  thrown  back,  their  mouths  open  in  laughter.  I  remembered  doing  the  same  thing  with  my  friends  when  I  was  small.  I  thought  how  happy  I  was  then.  And  then  I  thought,  No,  I  wasn't.  I  wasn't  happy  at  all.  By  the  time  I  got  to  work,  I  for-  got  about  the  children  moving  around  the  pole,  and  childhood,  and  happiness.  When  I  went  home  at  the  end  of  the  day,  I  didn't  look  at  the  old  neigh-  borhood.  I  drove  through  it  half  con-  scious,  as  usual.  I  hardly  saw  the  ugly  buildings,  thebrutal  way  the  dying  sun  struck  them.  After  dinner,  after  I  had  showered  and  read  the  local  paper,  I  remem-  bered  the  three  children  for  no  reason  at  all.  They  startled  me,  the  way  they  popped  into  my  mind,  whirling.  I  wanted  to  tell  Nettie  about  them,  but  she  had  fallen  asleep  before  an  old  movie  on  TV.  I  wish  I  could  find  another  route  to  my  office,  even  if  it  meant  a  wide  detour,  but  there  is  only  one  way  to  go.  -H.  L.  Mountzoures     "