 THE  GOSPEL  ACCORDING  TO  MARK  ,  I  \\HESE  events  took  place  at  La  Colorada  ranch,  in  the  southern  part  of  the  township  of  Junin,  during  the  last  days  of  March,  1928.  The  protagonist  was  a  medical  stu-  dent  named  Baltasar  Espinosa.  We  may  describe  him,  for  now,  as  one  of  the  common  run  of  young  men  from  [REDACTED]  Aires,  with  nothing  more  note-  worthy  about  him  than  an  almost  un-  limited  kindness  and  a  capacity  for  pub-  lic  speaking  that  had  earned  him  sever-  al  prizes  at  the  English  school  in  Ramos  Mejia.  He  did  not  like  arguing,  and  preferred  having  his  listener  rather  than  himself  in  the  right.  Although  he  was  fascinated  by  the  probabilities  of  chance  in  any  game  he  played,  he  was  a  bad  player  because  it  gave  him  no  pleasure  to  win.  His  wide  intelligence  was  undirected;  at  the  age  of  thirty-  three,  he  still  lacked  credit  for  gradu-  ation  by  one  course-the  course  to  which  he  was  most  drawn.  His  father,  who  was  a  freethinker  (like  all  the  gentlemen  of  his  day),  had  introduced  him  to  the  lessons  of  Herbert  Spencer,  but  his  mother,  before  leaving  on  a  trip  to  Montevideo,  once  asked  him  to  say  the  Lord's  Prayer  and  make  the  sign  of  the  cross  every  night.  Through  the  years,  he  had  never  gone  back  on  that  promise.  Espinosa  was  not  lacking  in  spirit;  one  day,  with  more  indifference  than  anger,  he  had  exchanged  two  or  three  punches  with  a  group  of  fellow-stu-  dents  who  were  trying  to  force  him  to  take  part  in  a  university  demonstration.  Owing  to  an  acquiescent  nature,  he  was  full  of  opinions,  or  habits  of  mind,  that  were  question-  able:  [REDACTED]  mattered  less  to  him  than  a  fear  that  in  other  parts  of  the  world  peo-  ple  might  think  of  us  as  Indians;  he  worshipped  [REDACTED]  but  despised  the  French;  he  thought  little  of  Americans  but  approved  the  fact  that  there  were  tall  buildings,  like  theirs,  in  [REDACTED]  Aires;  he  believed  the  gauchos  of  the  plains  to  be  better  riders  than  those  of  hill  or  mountain  country.  When  his  cousin  Daniel  invited  him  to  spend  the  summer  months  out  at  La  Colorada,  he  said  yes  at  once-not  because  he  was  really  fond  of  the  country  but  more  out  of  his  natural  complacency  and  also  be-  cause  it  was  easier  to  say  yes  than  to  dream  up  reasons  for  saying  no.  The  ranch's  main  house  was  big  and  slightly  run  down;  the  quarters  of  the  foreman,  whose  name  was  Gutre,  were  close  by.  The  Gutres  were  three:  the     father,  an  unusually  uncouth  son,  and  a  daughter  of  uncertain  paternity.  They  were  tall,  strong,  and  bony,  and  had  hair  that  was  on  the  reddish  side  and  faces  that  showed  traces  of  Indian  blood.  They  were  barely  articulate.  The  foreman's  wife  had  died  years  be-  fore.  There  in  the  country,  Espinosa  be-  gan  learning  things  he  had  never  known,  or  even  suspected-for  exam-  ple,  that  you  do  not  gallop  a  horse  when  approaching  settlements,  and  that  you  never  go  out  riding  except  for  some  special  purpose.  In  time,  he  was  to  come  to  tell  the  birds  apart  by  their  calls..  After  a  few  days,  Daniel  had  to  leave  for  [REDACTED]  Aires  to  close  a  deal  on  some  cattle.  At  most,  this  bit  of  business  might  take  him  a  week.  Es-  pinosa,  who  was  already  somewhat  weary  of  hearing  about  his  cousin's  in-  cessant  luck  with  women  and  his  tire-  less  interest  in  the  minute  details  of  men's  fashion,  preferred  staying  on  at  the  ranch  with  his  textbooks.  But  the  heat  was  unbearable,  and  even  the  night  brought  no  relief.  One  morning  at  daybreak,  thunder  woke  him.  Out-  side,  the  wind  was  rocking  the  Austral-  ian  pines.  Listening  to  the  first  heavy  drops  of  rain,  Espinosa  thanked  God.  'All  at  once,  cold  air  rolled  in.  That  afternoon,  the  Salado  overflowed  its  banks.  The  next  day,  looking  out  over  the  flooded  fields  from  the  gallery  of  the  main  house,  Baltasar  Espi-  nosa  thought  that  the  stock  metaphor  comparing  the  pampa  to  the  sea  was  not  altogether  false-at  least,  not  that  morning-though  W.  H.  Hudson  had  remarked  that  the  sea  seems  wider  be-  cause  we  view  it  from  a  ship's  deck  and  not  from  a  horse  or  from  eye  level.  The  rain  did  not  let  up.  The  Gutres,  helped  or  hindered  by  Espinosa,  the  town  dweller,  rescued  a  good  part  of  the  livestock,  but  many  animals  were  drowned.  There  were  four  roads  lead-  ing  to  La  Colorada;  all  of  them  were  under  water.  On  the  third  day,  when  a  leak  threatened  the  foreman's  house,  Espinosa  gave  the  Gutres  a  room  near  the  tool  shed,  at  the  back  of  the  main  house.  This  drew  them  all  closer;  they  ate  together  in  the  big  dining  room.  Conversation  turned  out  to  be  difficult.  The  Gutres,  who  knew  so  much  about  country  things,  were  hard  put  to  it  to  explain  them.  One  night,  Espinosa  asked  them  if  people  still  remembered  the  Indian  raids  from  back  when  the  frontier  command  was  located  there  in  Junin.  They  told  him  yes,  but  they  would  have  given  the  same  answer  to  a  question  about  the  beheading  of  Charles  I.  Espinosa  recalled  his  father's  saying  that  almost  every  case  of  longevity  that  was  cited  in  the  country  was  really  a  case  of  bad  memory  or  of  a  dim  notion  of  dates.  Gauchos  are  apt  to  be  igno-  rant  of  the  year  of  their  birth  or  of  the  name  of  the  man  who  begot  them.  In  the  whole  house,  there  was  ap-  parently  no  other  reading  matter  than  a  set  of  the  Farm  Journal,  a  handbook  of  veterinary  medicine,  a  de-luxe  edi-  tion  of  the  Uruguayan  epic  &quot;Tabar\xc3\xa9,&quot;  a  &quot;History  of  Shorthorn  Cattle  in  [REDACTED],&quot;  a  number  of  erotic  or  detective  stories,  and  a  recent  novel  called  &quot;Don  Segundo  Sombra.&quot;  Es-  pinosa,  trying  in  some  way  to  bridge  the  inevitable  after-dinner  gap,  read  a  couple  of  chapters  of  this  novel  to  the  Gutres,  none  of  whom  could  read  or  write.  Unfortunately,  the  foreman  had  been  a  cattle  drover,  and  the  doings  of  the  hero,  another  cattle  drover,  failed  to  whet  his  interest.  He  said  that  the  work  was  light,  that  drovers  always  travelled  with  a  packhorse  that  carried  everything  they  needed,  and  that,  had  he  not  been  a  drover,  he  would  never  have  seen  such  far-flung  places  as  the  Laguna  de  Gomez,  the  town  of  Bragado,  and  the  spread  of  the  Nunez  family  in  Chacabuco.  There  was  a  guitar  in  the  kitchen;  the  ranch  hands,  before  the  time  of  the  events  I  am  de-  scribing,  used  to  sit  around  in  a  circle.  Someone  would  tune  the  instrument  without  ever  getting  around  to  playing  it.  This  was  known  as  a  guitarfest.  ESPINOSA,  who  had  grown  a  beard,  began  dallying  in  front  of  the  mirror  to  study  his  new  face,  and  he  smiled  to  think  how,  back  in  [REDACTED]  Aires,  he  would  bore  his  friends  by  telling  them  the  story  of  the  Salado  flood.  Strangely  enough,  he  missed  places  he  had  never  frequented  and  never  would:  a  corner  of  Cabrera  Street  on  which  there  was  a  mailbox;  one  of  the  cement  lions  of  a  gateway  on  Jujuy  Street,  a  few  blocks  from  the  Plaza  del  Once;  an  old  barroom  with  a  tiled  floor,  whose  exact  whereabouts  he  was  unsure  of.  As  for  his  brothers  and  his  fat  her,  they  would  already  have  learned  from  Daniel  that  he  was  iso-  lated-etymologically,  the  word  was  perfect-by  the  floodwaters.  Exploring  the  house,  still  hemmed  in  by  the  watery  waste,  Espinosa  came  across  an  English  Bible.  Among  the  blank  pages  at  the  end,  the  Guthries-  " b"such  was  their  original  name-had  left  a  handwritten  record  of  their  lincage.  They  were  natives  of  Inverness;  had  reached  the  New  World,  no  doubt  as  common  laborers,  in  theearly  part  of  the  nineteenth  century;  and  had  inter-  married  with  Indians.  The  chronicle  broke  off  sometime  during  the  eighteen-  seventies,  when  they  no  longer  knew  how  to  write.  After  a  few  generations,  they  had  forgotten  English;  their  Spanish,  at  the  time  Espinosa  knew  them,  gave  them  trouble.  They  lacked  any  religious  faith,  but  there  survived  in  their  blood,  like  faint  tracks,  the  rigid  fanaticism  of  the  Calvinist  and  the  superstitions  of  the  pampa  Indian.  Es-  pinosa  later  told  them  of  his  find,  but  they  barely  took  notice.  Leafing  through  the  volume,  his  fingers  opened  it  at  the  beginning  of  the  Gospel  according  to  St.  Mark.  As  an  exercise  in  translation,  and  maybe  to  find  out  whether  the  Gutres  under-  stood  any  of  it,  Espinosa  decided  to  begin  reading  them  that  text  after  their  evening  meal.  It  surprised  him  that  they  listened  attentively,  absorbed.  Maybe  the  gold  letters  on  the  cover  lent  the  book  authority.  It's  still  there  " b" in  their  blood,  Espinosa  thought.  It  also  occurred  to  him  that  the  gen-  erations  of  men,  throughout  record-  ed  time,  have  always  told  and  retold  two  stories-that  of  a  lost  ship  which  searches  the  Mediterranean  seas  for  a  dearly  loved  island,  and  that  of  a  god  who  is  crucified  on  Golgotha.  Remem-  bering  his  lessons  in  elocution  from  his  school  days  in  Ramos  Mejia,  Espinosa  got  to  his  feet  when  he  came  to  the  parables.  The  Gutres  took  to  bolting  their  barbecued  meat  and  their  sardines  so  as  not  to  delay  the  Gospel.  A  pet  lamb  that  the  girl  adorned  with  a  small  blue  ribbon  had  injured  itself  on  a  strand  of  barbed  wire.  To  stopthe  bleeding,  the  three  had  wanted  to  apply  a  cobweb  to  the  wound,  but  Espinosa  treated  the  animal  with  some  pills.  The  gratitude  that  this  treatment  awakened  in  them  took  him  aback.  (Not  trusting  the  Gutres  at  first,  he'd  hidden  away  in  one  of  his  books  the  two  hundred  and  forty  pesos  he  had  brought  with  him.)  Now,  the  owner  of  the  place  away,  Es-  pinosa  took  over  and  gave  timid  orders,  which  were  immediately  obeyed.  The  Gutres,  as  if  lost  without  him,  liked  following  him  from  room  to  room  and  along  the  gallery  that  ran  around  the  house,  While  he  read  to  them,  he  noticed  that  they  were  secretly  stealing  the  crumbs  he  had  dropped  on  the  table.  One  evening,  he  caught  them  un-  awares  talking  about  him  respectfully,  in  very  few  words.  Having  finished  the  Gospel  accord-  ing  to  St.  Mark,  he  wanted  to  read  an-  other  of  the  three  Gospels  that  re-  mained,  but  the  father  asked  him  to  repeat  -the  had  just  read,  so  that  they  could  understand  it  better.  Espinosa  felt  that  they  were  like  chil-  dren,  to  whom  repetition  is  more  pleas-  ing  than  variations  or  novelty.  That  night-this  is  not  to  be  wondered  at-  he  dreamed  of  the  Flood;  the  hammer  blows  of  the  building  ofthe  Ark  woke  him  up,  and  he  thought  that  perhaps  they  were  thunder.  In  fact,  the  rain,  which  had  let  up,  started  again.  The  cold  was  bitter.  The  Gutres  had  told  him  that  the  storm  had  damaged  the  roof  of  the  tool  shed,  and  that  they  would  show  it  to  him  when  the  beams  were  fixed.  No  longer  a  stranger  now,  he  was  treated  by  them  with  special  at-  tention,  almost  to  the  point  of  spoiling  him.  None  of  them  liked  coffee,  but  for  him  there  was  always  a  small  cup  into  which  they  heaped  sugar.  The  new  storm  had  broken  out  on  a  Tuesday.  Thursday  night,  Espinosa  was  awakened  by  a  soft  knock  at  his  door,  which-just  in  case-he  always  kept  locked.  He  got  out  of  bed  and  opened  it;  there  was  the  girl.  In  the  dark  he  could  hardly  make  her  out,  but  byher  footsteps  he  could  tell  she  was  barefoot,  and  moments  later,  in  bed,  one  he     that  she  must  have  come  all  the  way  from  the  other  end  of  the  house  naked.  She  did  not  embrace  him  or  speak  a  single  word;  she  lay  beside  him,  trem-  bling.  It  was  the  first  time  she  had  known  a  man.  When  she  left,  she  did  not  kiss  him;  Espinosa  realized  that  he  didn't  even  know  her  name.  For  some  reason  that  he  did  not  want  to  pry  into,  he  made  up  his  mind  that  upon  returning  to  [REDACTED]  Aires  he  would  tell  no  one  about  what  had  taken  place.  K  I  HE  next  day  began  like  theprevi-  ous  ones,  except  thatthe  father  spoke  to  Espinosa  and  asked  him  if  Christ  had  let  Himself  be  killed  so  as  to  save  all  other  men  on  earth.  Espinosa,  who  was  a  freethinker  but  who  felt  committed  to  what  he  had  read  to  the  Gutres,  answered,  &quot;'Yes,  to  save  every-  one  from  Hell.&quot;  Gutre  then  asked,  &quot;What's  Hell?&quot;  &quot;A  place  under  the  ground  where  souls  burn  and  burn.&quot;  &quot;And  the  Roman  soldiers  who  ham-  mered  in  the  nails-were  they  saved,  too?&quot;  Yes,&quot;  said  Espinosa,  whose  theology  was  rather  dim.  All  along,  he  was  afraid  that  the  foreman  might  ask  him  about  what  had  gone  on  the  night  before  with  his  daughter.  After  lunch,  they  asked  him  to  read  the  last  chapters  over  again.  Espinosa  slept  a  long  nap  that  after-  noon.  It  was  a  light  sleep,  disturbed  by  persistent  hammering  and  by  vague  premonitions.  Toward  evening,  he  got  up  and  went  out  onto  the  gallery.  He  said,  as  if  thinking  aloud,  &quot;The  waters  have  dropped.  It  won't  be  long  now.&quot;  &quot;It  won't  be  long  now,&quot;  Gutre  re-  peated,  like  an  echo.  The  three  had  been  following  him.  Bowing  their  knees  to  the  stone  pave-  ment,  they  asked  his  blessing.  Then  they  mocked  at  him,  spat  on  him,  and  shoved  him  toward  the  back  part  of  the  house.  The  girl  wept.  Espinosa  under-  stood  what  awaited  him  on  the  other  side  of  the  door.  When  they  opened  it,  he  saw  a  patch  of  sky.  A  bird  sang  out.  A  goldfinch,  he  thought.  The  shed  was  without  a  roof;  they  had  pulled  down  the  beams  to  make  the  cross."