"[REDACTED]  STILL  ON  TOP,  SAYS  REST  OF  YVORLD  [REDACTED]  today  is  No.  1  in  the  world  ...  -President  Nixon.  HE  White  House  is  very,  but  unofficially,  elated  over  Ameri-  ca's  top  finish  in  the  1971  [REDACTED]  standings,  announced  yesterday  in  Geneva.  The  United  [REDACTED],  for  the  twenty-eighth  straight  year,  was  named  No.  1  Country  by  a  jury  of  more  than  three  hundred  presidents,  prime  ministers,  premiers,  chairmen,  elder  world  statesmen,  kings,  queens,  emperors,  popes,  generalissimos,  shahs,  sheikhs,  and  tribal  chieftains  who  hold  voting  memberships  in  the  Association  of  World  Leaders.  The  White  House  issued  a  brief  statement  acknowledging  the  honor  and  calling  for  &quot;renewed  dedication  tothe  principles  that  have  made  us  great,&quot;  but  in  the  West  Wing,  be-  hind  doors  that  were  kept  locked  to  reporters  for  forty-five  minutes  after  the  news  broke,  complete  bedlam  pre-  vailed.  Presidential  assistants,  special  assistants,  counsellors,  and  secretaries  jumped  up  and  down  and  raced  from  suite  to  suite  embracing  each  other  and  shouting  at  the  tops  of  their  voices,  according  to  inside  sources.  Stacks  of  papers,  some  marked  &quot;'Top  Secret,&quot;  were  thrown  from  windows  in  jubilation,  and  sev-  eral  well-known  ad-  visers  were  pushed  fully  clothed  into  the  show-  ers,  though  not  for  at-  tribution.  After  a  few  minutes  alone  with  Attorney  General  John  Mitch-  ell,  President  Nixon  emerged  from  his  of-  fice  to  address  the  group.  His  remarks  were  not  made  public  by  the  White  House,  which  described  them  as  &quot;personal  in  na-  ture.&quot;  'The  President  grinned  broadly  and  wore  a  wide  silver-  blue  necktie  with  the  inscription  &quot;El  Numero  Uno.&quot;  With  [REDACTED]  with-  drawing  from  a  cost-  ly  and  divisive  war  abroad  while  beset  by  economic  ills  at  home,  some  international  ob-  servers  had  thought  that  the  large  Western  nation  might  forfeit  the  No.  1  nod  to  the  unexciting  butsteady  So-  viet  Union.  And  when  the  [REDACTED]  dollar  took  sick  a  week  before  world  lead-  ers  were  to  mail  their  ballots,  it  was  even  feared  the  [REDACTED]  might  finish  third  behind  the  newly  popular  4368696e61.  Aft-  er  the  tally  had  been  announced,  however,  a  world  leader  who  wished  to  remain  anonymous  said  that  the  nearly  two-hundred-year-old  republic  had  never  been  in  serious  danger  of  losing  the  pick,  at  least  not  in  lead-  ership  circles.  &quot;While  some  other  nations  have  made  great  economic  or  technological  strides,&quot;  he  remarked,  &quot;the  world  mantle-holder  is  never  de-  termined  by  balance  sheet  or  record  book  alone.  We  look  for  basic  qualities  in  a  No,  1  country,  such  as  how  well  it  keeps  its  commitments,  the  deep  spiritual  resources  of  its  people,  whether  or  not  it  has  been  a  force  for  peace,  as  well  as  its  economic  and  military  power  per  se.&quot;  It  was  the  forty-fifth  title  win  for   the  powerful  industrial  state  since  it  first  copped  the  prize  in  1917.  Ex-  cept  for  some  lean  years  in  the  twen-  ties  after  it  turned  its  back  on  the  Ver-  sailles  Conference,  then  the  big-money  circuit,  the  [REDACTED]  has  dominated  the  world  scene  in  this  century,  though  it  still  trails  the  Roman  and  British  Em-  pires  and  the  Mongol  Horde  in  total  wins.  In  other  events,  4368696e61  walked  off  with  population  honors,  while  4368696e61's  Chou  En-lai  and  [REDACTED]'s  Pierre  Trudeau  shared  the  Premier  of  the  Year  spotlight.  The  Middle  East  was  named  Foremost  Trouble  Spot,  and  in  the  group  competition  the  Euro-  pean  Community  was  chosen  Top  Bloc  as  well  as  Most  Interdependent.  In  the  small-nation  runoff,  honors  went  to  Rumania  (Totalitarian  Division),  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  (Free  World),  and  In-  dia  (Indies).  Recognition  was  also  given  to  Jordan  (National  Anthem),  the  United  [REDACTED]  (Best  Credo,  Most  Telephones,  and  the  G.N.P.  Cup),  4a6170616e  (Diplomacy,  Exports,  Most  Benevolent  Dynasty),  and  Micronesia  (Most  Trustworthy). "