"THE  HIGH  GROUND,  OR  LOOK,  MA,  'M  EXPLICATING  \xe2\x80\x98  a  J  HEN  the  helpmate  pointed  out  how  I  tended  to  mumble  and  grunt  in  confrontation  with  paintings  and  other  works  of  art,  and  suggested  I  might  try  framing  my  re-  actions  in  more  articulate  English,  or  at  least  sentences  that  parsed,  I  was  at  first  resentful.  I  remembered  T.  S.  Eliot's  remark  about  how  he  hated  be-  ing  pressed  for  his  opinions  when  stroll-  ing  through  galleries  and  museums,  preferring  to  accumulate  and  discharge  them  at  his  leisure,  if  at  all.  Yet  that  position  is  hardly  tenable  under  cir-  cumstances  such  as  formed  the  occa-  sion  for  my  wife's  whispered  stricture-  the  black-tie  opening  of  a  one-man  retrospective  that  we  attended  with  some  newly  acquired  friends,  Bill  and  Jessie  Gmelch.  Such  an  event  is  in  its  nature  half  social-something  one  can-  not  in  all  conscience  negotiate  with  a  mouthful  of  teeth.  So  I  made  an  effort  to  hitch  up  my  responses  onto  a  plane  more  nearly  approximating  that  of  or-  dered  evaluation-with  results  that  surprised  and,  I  must  say,  de-  lighted  me.  &quot;What  we  have  here  seems  to  me  an  organic  fusion  of  form  and  con-  tent,&quot;  I  said,  of  an  oil  before  which  we  four  collectively  stood,  short-  ly  after  the  murmured  complaint  for  which  the  helpmate  had  mo-  mentarily  drawn  me  out  of  the  Gmelches'  hearing,  &quot;one  in  which  linear  and  composition-  al  values  are  also  hap-  pily  resolved.  I  like  es-  pecially  the  juxtaposi-  tion  of  contrasts,  which  are  at  once  subtle  and  intrepid,  forthright  without  being  obtru-  sive.&quot;  Bill  Gmelch  nodded,  tapping  against  pursed  lips  a  catalogue  which  he  had  rolled  into  a  tube.  &quot;Hmm,&quot;  Jessie  said,  gazing  at  the  pic-  ture.  I  continued.  &quot;The  amalgamation  of  subject  and  object,  which  was  but  tenta-  tively  realized  in  the  artist's  earlier  period-  in  such  efforts  as  the  'Blue  Configuration'     over  there,  where  an  ostensibly  abstract  intention  is  still  somewhat  qualified  by  representational  elements-seems  to  me  consummately  achieved  in  this  more  recent  'City  Modality,&quot;  where  the  ob-  ject  qua  object,  the  Ding  an  sich,  if  you  will,  disappears  in  the  chromatic  boil.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  there  are  the  McConkeys,&quot;  Jessie  said,  and  made  for  the  new  ar-  rivals,  hastily  followed  by  Bill.  The  helpmate  again  waited  till  they  were  out  of  earshot.  Then  she  said,  &quot;Go  back  to  the  way  you  were.&quot;  This  was  more  easily  said  than  done.  When  a  man  has  found  his  tongue  on  the  level  I  had,  the  cat  is  not  likely  to  get  it  again  very  soon.  I  could  hardly  wait  forthe  next  chance  to  practice  my  newly  discovered  gift,  which  was  like  a  heady  wine.  It  came  the  very  next  week  when  we  attended  an  all-  Chopin  concert  by  a  Brazilian  pianist,  again  with  the  Gmelches.  &quot;Like  him?&quot;  Bill  said  in  the  lobby  sem  _mearen\xc2\xaew  nna  paws:     during  the  intermission,  eying  me  warily  as  he  shook  a  cigarette  from  a  pack.  &quot;I  think  he's  good.  His  reading  of  the  sonata  struck  me  as  especially  fine.&quot;  &quot;Except  in  the  slow  movement,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;where  I  detected  a  certain  vis-  cosity  in  the  phrasing.  Also  his  tempi  were  at  times  heretical,  to  say  the  least,  notably  in  the  more  reflective  passages,  where  the  lyrical  intent  of  the  original  was  distorted  by  an  overinflationof  its  rhythmic  values,  I  thought.  I  find  the  performance  in  general  somewhat  marred  by  a  willful  pyrotechnicality,  which  repeatedly  sacrifices  the  com-  poser's  avowed  melodic  line  to  a  heed-  less  personal  panache.  Where  is  every-  one  going?&quot;  Bill  gesticulated  through  the  door-  way  to  a  bar  across  the  street,  sucking  back  a  large  mouthful  of  smoke.  &quot;Time  for  a  quick  one  before  the  buzzer.&quot;  I  chased  them  through  a  light  driz-  zle,  shouting  explications  lost  in  the  noise  of  the  traffic  and  then  that  of  the  bar,  which  discouraged  all  but  the  small  talk  into  which  my  three  companions  seemed,  for  some  rea-  son,  eagerly  to  plunge.  I  listened  with  abstract  ed  smiles  to  their  gos-  sip  as  I  mentally  draft-  ed  amplifications  of  the  points  I  had  raised.  I  was  now  beginning  to  wonder  about  Eliot.  The  pleasures  of  pontif-  ication  werenone  he  had  ever  passed  up  in  his  prose  writings!  Something  or  other  was  causing  a  steady  de-  cline  in  the  Gmelches'  state  of  mind.  They  were  in  quite  a  foul  hu-  mor  when  we  got  up  to  our  place  for  a  night-  cap  after  the  concert.  I  noticed  them  whis-  pering  angrily  together  in  a  corner  ofthe  liv-  ing  room,  glancing  in  my  direction  and  break-  ing  off  as  I  approached  with  brandies.  Evident-  ly  a  little  domestic  spat  of  some  sort.  It  showed  me  how  urgent  the  need  for  a  bit  of  stimu-  lating  talk.  A  new  nov-  el,  lying  on  a  coffee  table,  offered  just  the  opportunity.  &quot;I  felt  it  a  distinct  advance  over  the  au-  thor's  previous  work,&quot;  " b"44  I  said,  &quot;particularly  compelling  in  its  portrayal  of  the  slob  as  counter-culture.  Here  the  grubby  romanticism  of  as  phalt  vagabondage,  long  familiar  to  us  in  a  rash  of  'road  fiction  from  those  still  into  words,  is  elevated  into  an  out-  right  arraignment  of  the  work  ethos  as  more  puritanic  dregs.  Especially  notable  are  the  scenes  in  which  the  protagonist  takes  to  the  streets  and  asks  nonentitics  for  their  autographs,  as  W  hitmanesque  gestures  of  democracy.  Would,  alas,  the  style  were  more  Whitmanesque.&quot;  They  all  watched  in  hangdog  si-  lence  as  I  packed  and  lit  a  pipe.  &quot;My  quarrel  is  not  that  it's  re-  cycled  Faulkner-what  isn't  these  days!  -but  that  rhetoric  is,  en  prin-  cipe,  incongruous  with  so  putatively  skeptical  a  vision.  Let  me  just  get  the  book  and  read  a  passage  illustrating-&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;  Both  Gmelches  spoke  as  they  rose  simultaneously  and  stood  with  clenched  fists,  as  though  prepared  to  bar  my  passage  to  the  book  with  physi-  cal  force  if  necessary.  &quot;We  have  to  toddle  along,&quot;  Bill  said,  levelly.  &quot;We  have  to  get  up  tomorrow,&quot;  Jessie  ex-  plained.  The  helpmate  now  climbed  to  her  feet,  like  a  third  guest  I  must  see  to  the  door.  Until  we  actually  reached  it,  there  was  the  ecriest  sense  that  she  might  indeed  sail  through  it  and  out  into  the  night,  remembering  only  at  the  last  moment  that  she  lived  here.  &quot;Well,  you've  driven  them  away,&quot;  she  said  whenwe  were  alone.  &quot;Prob-  ably  for  good.  In  God's  name,  can't  you  stop  it?  Talking  like  that?&quot;  &quot;It  would  be  dishonest  to  guarantee  anything.  Once  you've  got  the  hang  of  something-&quot;  &quot;Then  PH  guarantee  something.  That  I  can't  take  much  more  of  this  phase.  Look.  We're  all  going  to  the  Bilkingtons'  cocktail  party  Saturday,  and  you'd  damn  well  better  talk  Unit-  ed  Statesthere,  is  all  I  can  say,  Buster.&quot;  HE  helpmate's  misgivings  were  not  without  foundation.  Bo  Bilk-  ington  is  a  tired  businessman  who  en-  courages  canards  such  as  that  he  car-  ries  a  hip  flask  to  the  opera.  When  he  shakes  hands,  he  will  fold  his  fingers  back  two  joints,  so  that  you  think  you  are  grasping  stumps,  and  say,  with  a  laugh,  &quot;Lost  'em  on  a  minesweeper.&quot;  Saturday  evening  saw  me  being  greeted  again  in  that  vein,  and  smilin'  through  in  my  own,  as  I  rolled  an  eye  around  the  apartment  to  see  who  was  on  deck.  A  large  mixture  of  friends  and  strangers.  Plucking  a  drink  from  a  passing  tray,  I  made  for  a  group  at  the  far  end  of  the  living  room  who  were  listening  to  an  L.P.  of  some  new  poet  reading  his  stuff-an  album  entitled  &quot;Vibes,&quot;  of  which  I  caught  the  last  ten  minutes.  &quot;Like  it?&quot;  Jenny  Bilkington  said,  when  the  stereo  had  clicked  off.  There  were  murmurs  of  approval,  a  few  polite  shrugs  and  exclamations.  I  could  feel  the  helpmate's  eye  on  me,  though  from  behind.  I  made  an  effort  to  get  a  grip  on  myself.  The  brief,  foredoomed  struggle  of  a  man  hooked  on  exegesis.  I  cleared  my  throat  as  Jenny  moved  to  play  the  flip  side.  &quot;I  find  it  on  the  whole  creditable  of  its  kind,  allowing  for  the  element  of  naivete  in  colloquial  art  generally,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;The  style  is  basically  folk  collage  rather  than  formalized  song,  ofcourse.  The  use  of  slang,  clich\xc3\xa9s,  and  the  like,  wedged  arbitrarily  into  what  systematic  verse  there  is,  offers  a  literary  counter-  partof  the  'found  objects'  incorporat-  ed  into  contemporary  junk  sculpture-  yet  another  example  of  the  fragmenta-  tion  that  has  marked  our  art  for  half  a     -Joxn  Swan  century,  reflecting  a  dilapidated  West-  ern  psyche.  Each  generation  espouses  its  argot  with  more  bravado  than  the  last  (the  hippie  lexicon  is  almost  all  cult  verbiage),  a  development  hardly  sur-  prising,  for  in  the  beginning  may  have  been  the  word  but  the  end  is  always  jargon.&quot;  &quot;How  about  that?&quot;  said  Bo.  He  glanced  wretchedly  over  at  another  group  as  he  reached  for  his  highball.  \xe2\x80\x9c140684\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  liked  especially  the  passage  be-  ginning,  'What  availeth  it  a  lawn-  mower?  ,'  as  a  wry  commentary  on  cer-  tain  pernickety  homeowning  elements  comprising  in  fact  a  culture  in  mid-  slide.  Also  effective  was  the  symbolism  ofthe  carpenter's  apprentice  who  throws  down  his  tools  and  leavesScars-  dale,as  allusion  to  the  current  Jesus  bag.&quot;  The  plan  to  hear  a  little  of  the  flip  side  was  abandoned  as  the  group  dis-  persed,  to  re-form  into  smaller  knots  of  muttering  guests.  One  especially  ex-  ercised  little  cluster,  incidentally  in-  cluding  Bill  Gmelch,  were  shaking  their  heads  and  even  their  fists.  A  mob  can  be  an  ugly  thing.  I  caught  the  words  &quot;be  allowed  out&quot;  and  othe:  such  inflamed  scraps.  In  this  way  the  party  now  began  to  take  more  dis-  cernible  shape.  The  helpmate  grasped  " b"   my  hand  at  one  point  and  towed  me  across  the  long  living  room  to  a  group  clear  at  the  other  end.  &quot;They're  dis-  cussing  movies,&quot;  she  said  with  a  smile  intended  for  public  consumption,  add-  ing,  through  gritted  teeth,  &quot;thank  God.&quot;  That  lot  were  talking  about  a  pic-  ture  I  happened  to  have  seen,  and  so  was  fortunately  able  to  join  in  the  con-  versation.  A  groan  went  up  from  some  woman  asI  approached,  probably  someone  bored  with  Al  Herndon's  two  cents  about  the  film,  for  he  was  holding  forth  in  typical  style  on  its  merits.  One  thing  is,  he's  loaded  with  inherited  money,  which  always  sets  people's  backs  up.  I  stood  with  the  flat  of  a  hand  against  thewall,  hearing  him  out  like  the  rest.  &quot;The  art  that  conceals  art,&quot;  I  said  the  instant  Plentykins  paused  for  breath,  &quot;s  nowhere  more  important  than  in  the  cinema,  where  we  have  such  a  variety  of  techniques  to  keep  scrupulously  in  line.  I  found  both  the  photography  and  the  direction  in  'Bus    to  Scranton'  obtrusive,  The  long  coal-  pit  and  slag-heap  shots  were  beautifully  realized  as  anti-scenery,  but  the  close-  ups  became  much  too  studied,  as  did  the  raffishness  ofthe  male  principal,  whose  exposition  of  the  role  was  an  un-  easy  hash  of  Bogart  and  Mastroianni,  which  any  director  worth  his  salt  could  have  disciplined  ..  .&quot;  MONG  the  last  to  arrive,  we  were  the  first  to  leave.  The  helpmate  seemed  anxious  to  get  me  alone  in  a  taxicab.  &quot;Well,  that  tears  it,&quot;  she  said  as  we  sped  for  home.  &quot;Did  you  noticethe  Herndons  and  the  Gmelches  and  the  Bustamentes  talking  about  getting  the-  atre  tickets  to  something  and  breaking  it  off  when  we  came  up?  We'll  never  be  invited  anywhere  again,  except  to  a  dogfight.  I  swear  I  don't  know  what  makes  you  tick.  One  minute  you're  the  soulof  concession,  the  next  you  can't  be  budged,  especially  if  it  involves  something  that  gives  you  some  kind  of  subcutaneous  gratification.&quot;  &quot;Can  I  help  it  ifit's  my  mature  period?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  God,  who  knows  what  any-  body  is  like!&quot;  she  said,  ignoring  me.  &quot;Before  a  woman  can  begin  telling  you  what  a  prince  you  are,  you've  be-  come  a  pain.  You  know  what  I  think?  I  think,&quot;  she  went  on,  warming  to  her  subject,  &quot;you  mask  a  genuine  aggres-  sion  under  a  facade  of  compliance,  and  vice  versa-a  sort  of  basic  insecurity  in-  side  this  husk  of  independence.  You  seem  unable  to  divorce  your  societal  from  your  ego  drives,  your  gregarious  from  your  competitional  .  ..&quot;  She  can  go  on  like  that  for  days.  Ah,  well,  it's  an  age  of  criticism,  isn't  it?  It's  nothing  if  not  that.  "