"46  THE  ELDER  LADY  N  the  fourteenth  of  January,  O  1941,  Maria  Justina  Rubio  de  Jauregui  was  to  be  one  hundred  years  old.  She  was  the  last  surviving  daughter  of  any  of  the  soldiers  who  had  fought  in  the  [REDACTED]  556e6974656420537461746573n  War  of  Independence.  Colonel  Mariano  Rubio,  her  father,  was  what  might,  without  irreverence,  be  called  a  minor  immortal.  Born  in  1799  in  the  [REDACTED]  Aires  parish  of  La  Merced,  the  son  of  local  landowners,  he  was  promoted  to  ensign  in  San  Mar-  tin's  Army  of  the  Andes,  and  he  fought  in  the  battle  of  Chacabuco,  in  the  de-  feat  of  Cancha  Rayada,  at  Maipu,  and,  two  years  after  that,  at  Arequipa.  At  the  beginning  ofApril,  1823,  there  took  place  the  famous  engagement  of  Big  Hill,  which,  having  been  fought  in  a  valley  between  two  summits,  is  often  also  known  as  the  battle  of  Red  Hill.  Always  envious  of  our  glories,  the  Venezuelans  attribute  this  victory  to  General  Simon  Bolivar,  but  the  impar-  tial  observer,  the  Argentine  historian,  is  not  easily  taken  in  and  knows  only  too  well  that  the  laurels  rightfully  belong  to  Colonel  Mariano  Rubio.  The  Colo-  nel,  at  the  head  of  a  regiment  of  Co-  lombian  hussars,  turned  the  tide  in  this  battle,  waged  entirely  with  sabres  and  lances,  which  paved  the  way  for  the  no  less  famous  action  at  Aya-  cucho,  in  which  he  also  took  part,  receiving  a  wound.  In  1827,  it  was  his  fate  to  fight  boldly  at  Ituzaingo,  under  the  immediate  command  of  Alvear.  In  spite  of  his  blood  tice  with  the  dictator  Rosas,  in  later  years  he  was  one  of  Lavalle's  men,  and  once  broke  up  a  troop  of  gaucho  militia  in  an  action  the  Colonel  always  referred  to  as  a  sabrefest.  With  the  defeat  ofthe  Unitarians,  he  emigrated  to  Uruguay,  where  he  married.  In  the  eighteen-forties,  in  the  course  of  that  country's  long  civil  war,  the  Guerra  Grande,  he  died  in  Monte-  video  during  the  siege  of  the  city  by  Oribe's  Blancos.  He  was  nearly  forty-four,  which  at  that  time  was  al-  most  old  age.  He  had  been  a  friend  of  the  writer  Flo-  rencio  Varela.  It  is  quite  likely  that  professors  at  the  Military  Academy  would  have  flunked  him,  since  his  only  experience  lay  in  fight-  ing  battles,  not  in  taking  examinations.  He  left  two  daughters,  of  which  the  younger,  Maria  Justina,  is  the  one  who  concerns  us.  Toward  the  end  of  1853,  the  Colo-  nel's  widow  and  his  daughters  settled  in  [REDACTED]  Aires.  They  never  got  back  their  lands,  which  had  been  confiscated  by  the  dictator  during  the  Colonel's  long  absence,  but  the  memory  of  those  miles  and  miles  of  lost  acres  on  which  they  had  never  laid  eyes  sur-  vived  in  the  family  for  many  years.  At  the  age  of  seventeen,  Maria  Justina  married  the  physician  Bernardo  Jaure-  gui,  who,  though  a  civilian,  fought  dur-  ing  the  civil  wars  in  the  battles  of  Pavon  and  Cepeda,  and  later  died  prac-  ticing  his  profession  during  the  yellow-  fever  epidemic  of  the  eighteen-seven-  tics.  He  left  a  son  and  two  daughters.  Mariano,  the  firstborn,  was  a  customs  inspector,  and  he  used  to  frequent  the  National  Library  and  National  Ar-  chives,  with  the  intention  of  compiling  an  exhaustive  life  of  the  hero,  his  grandfather,  which  he  never  finished  and  perhaps  never  even  began.  The  older  daughter,  Maria  Elvira,  married  a  cousin,  a  Saavedra,  who  was  em-       ployed  in  the  Ministry  of  Finance.  Julia,  the  second  daughter,  had  mar-  ried  a  Mr.  Molinari,  who,  despite  his  Italian  name,  was  a  professor  of  Latin  and  a  person  of  the  highest  accom-  plishments.  I  pass  over  grandchildren  and  great-grandchildren;  itis  enough  that  my  reader  picture  a  family  that  is  honorable,  that  has  come  down  in  life,  and  that  is  presided  over  by  a  heroic  shade  and  by  a  daughter  born  in  exile.  The  family  lived  modestly  in  Paler-  mo,  in  what  at  the  time  was  the  out-  skirts  of  [REDACTED]  Aires,  not  far  from  the  church  of  Guadalupe.  Mariano  still  remembered  having  seen  there,  from  a  tramcar  ofthe  Grand  National  Lines,  the  big  pond  on  whose  shores  were  scattered  a  series  of  hovels,  not  of  galvanized-iron  sheets  but  of  unplas-  tered  brick.  Yesterday's  poverty  was  less  poor  than  the  poverty  handed  down  to  us  today  by  industrialism.  Fortunes  were  also  much  smaller  then.  The  Rubios  lived  above  a  local  dry-  goods  store,  The  stairway  was  narrow;  the  bannister,  which  ran  up  the  right-  hand  side,  led  to  a  longish  corridor,  at  the  end  of  which  was  a  dark  vestibule,  where  there  were  a  coatrack  and  a  few  chairs.  The  vestibule  opened  into  the  small  drawing  room,  with  its  upholstered  furniture,  and  the  drawing  room  into  the  dining  room,  with  its  mahogany  furniture  and  glass-fronted  china  closet.  The  metal  shutters,  always  kept  drawn  in  fear  ofthe  sunlight,  let  a  little  dim  twi-  light  filter  through.  I  recall  an  odor  of  stored-  away  things.  At  the  back  of  the  house  were  the  bed-  rooms,  the  bathroom,  a  small  gallery  with  a  laun-  dry  tub,  and  the  servant's  room.  In  the  whole  house  there  were  no  books  other  than  a  volume  of  the  poet  Andrade;  a  short  biography  of  the  hero,  with  handwrit-  ten  additions  scribbled  in-  to  the  margins;  and  Mon-  taner  y  Simon's  Hispano-  556e6974656420537461746573n  Encyclopedia,  acquired  on  installments,  together  with  the  small  set  of  shelves  that  came  with  it.  They  lived  on  a  pension,  which  was  never  paid  them  punctually,  and  on  the  in-  come  from  a  rented  prop-  erty-the  single  remains  ofthe  once  vast  acreage-  in  Lomas  de  Zamora.  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  At  the  time  of  my  story,  the  elder  lady  lived  with  Julia,  who  was  widowed,  and  with  Julia's  son.  Mrs.  Jauregui  went  on  hating  bygone  tyrants-Artigas,  Rosas,  and  Urquiza.  The  First  World  War,  which  made  her  loathe  the  Ger-  mans,  about  whom  she  knew  very  little,  was  less  real  to  her  than  the  revolu-  tion  of  1890  and,  needless  to  say,  the  cavalry  charge  at  Big  Hill.  Since  1932,  she  had  been  growing  dim-  mer  and  dimmer;  common  metaphors  are  the  best,  be-  cause  they  are  the  only  true  ones.  She  was,  of  course,  a  Catholic,  which  does  not  necessarily  mean  that  she  believed  in  a  God  that  is  One  and  is  Three,  or  even  in  an  afterlife.  While  her  hands  moved  over  her  ro-  sary,  she  muttered  prayers  that  she  had  never  under-  stood.  In  place  of  Easter  and  of  Twelfth  Night  she  had  accepted  Christmas,  just  as  she  had  grown  to  accept  tea  instead  of  mat\xc3\xa9.  To  her,  the  words  &quot;Prot,  estant,&quot;  &quot;Jew,&quot;  &quot;Free-  mason,&quot;  &quot;heretic,&quot;  and  &quot;atheist&quot;  were  synonyms  and  empty  of  meaning.  While  she  could  still  talk,  she  spoke  not  of  Spaniardsbut  of  godos,  or  Goths,  just  as  her  ancestors  had  done.  During  the  Centennial,  in  1910,  she  could  hardly  believe  thatthe  Spanish  Infanta-who,  after  all,  was  a  prin-  cess-spoke,  against  all  expectation,  like  a  common  Spaniard  and  not  like  an  Argentine  lady;  it  was  at  her  son-in-  law's  wake  that  a  rich  relative,  who  had  never  set  foot  in  the  Jauregui  house  but  whose  name  they  avidly  sought  in  the  society  pages  of  the  newspapers,  gave  her  the  disquieting  news.  Many  of  the  place  names  that  Mrs.  J&amp;Auregui  used  had  long  since  been  altered;  she  still  spoke  of  such  streets  as  Las  Artes,  Temple,  Buen  Orden,  La  Piedad,  the  two  Calles  Largas,  and  of  the  Plaza  del  Parque  and  the  Portones.  The  family  affected  these  archaisms,  which  in  her  were  spontaneous.  'They  spoke  of  &quot;Orientales&quot;  instead  of  &quot;Uruguayans.&quot;  Mrs.  JAuregui  never  went  out  of  the  house  after  1921;  perhaps  she  never  suspected  that  [REDACTED]  Aires  had  been  changing  and  growing.  First  memories  are  the  most  vivid.  The  city  that  she  pictured  beyond  her  front  door  may  well  have  been  a  much  earlier  one  than  that  of  the  time  they  were  forced  to  move  from  the  center  of  town  out  to  Palermo.  If  so,  to  her  the  oxen  that  hauled  wagons  still  rested  in  the  square  of  the  Once,  and  dead  violets  still  spread  their  fragrance  among  the  gar-  dens  of  Barracas.  &quot;Now  all  my  dreams  are  of  dead  people&quot;  was  one  of  the  last  things  she  was  heard  to  say.  No  one  had  ever  thought  of  her  as  a  fool,  but  as  far  as  I  know  she  had  never  enjoyed  the  pleasures  of  the  mind;  the  last  pleasures  left  her  would  be  those  of  memory  and,  later  on,  of  forgetfulness.  She  had  al-  ways  been  generous.  I  recall  her  bright,  quiet  eyes  and  her  smile.  Who  knows  what  tumult  of  passions-now  lost  but  which  once  burned-there  had  been  in  that  old  woman;  in  her  day,  she  had  been  quite  pleasant-looking.  Sensitive  to  plants,  whose  modest  and  silent  life  was  so  akin  to  her  own,  she  looked  after  some  begonias  in  her  room  and  touched  their  leaves,  which  she  could  no  longer  see.  Up  until  1929,  the  year  in  which  she  sank  into  a  kind  of  half  sleep,  she  recounted  historical  happenings,  but  al-  ways  using  the  same  words  in  the  same  order,  as  if  they  were  the  Lord's  Prayer,  so  that  I  grew  to  suspect  there  were  no  longer  any  real  images  behind  them.  Even  eating  one  thing  or  another   was  all  the  same  to  her.  She  was,  in  short,  happy.  LEEPING,  as  we  all  know,  is  the  most  secret  of  our  acts.  We  devote  a  third  of  our  lives  to  it,  and  yet  do  not  understand  it.  For  some,  it  is  no  more  than  an  eclipse  of  wakefulness;  for  oth-  ers,  a  more  complex  state  spanning  at  one  and  the  same  time  past,  present,  and  future;  for  still  others,  an  uninter-  rupted  series  of  dreams.  To  say  that  Mrs.  J&amp;uregui  spent  ten  years  in  a  quiet  chaos  is  perhaps  mistaken;  each  moment  of  those  ten  years  may  well  have  been  a  pure  present,  without  a  be-  fore  or  after.  There  is  no  reason  to  marvel  at  such  a  present,  which  we  count  by  days  and  nights  and  by  the  hundreds  ofleaves  of  many  calendars  and  by  anxieties  and  events;  itis  what  we  go  through  every  morning  before  waking  up  and  every  night  before  fall-  ing  asleep.  Twice  each  day,  we  are  all  the  elder  lady.  The  Jauregui  family  lived,  as  we  have  already  seen,  in  a  somewhat  false  situation.  They  felt  they  belonged  to  the  aristocracy,  but  the  people  spoken  of  in  the  society  column  knew  nothing  whatever  about  them;  they  were  de-  scendants  ofa  founding  father,  but  " b" more  often  than  not  the  schoolbooks  overlooked  him,  While  it  is  undeniable  that  a  street  bore  his  name,  that  street,  known  to  very  few  people,  was  lost  somewhere  out  behind  the  sprawling  Westside  cemetery.  HE  fourteenth  of  January  was  drawing  near.  On  the  tenth,  an  officer  in  full-dress  uniform  delivered  to  the  family  a  letter  signed  by  the  Min-  ister  of  War  himself,  announcing  his  visit  on  the  fourteenth.  The  JAureguis  showed  the  letter  to  the  whole  neigh-  borhood  and  made  a  great  deal  of  the  engraved  stationery  and  the  signature.  Then  the  newspapermen  came.  The  family  helped  them  with  all  available  information;  it  was  obvious  that  they  had  never  heard  of  Colonel  Rubio.  Peo-  ple  whom  the  family  scarcely  knew  called  by  telephone  so  asto  be  invited.  They  all  worked  very  hard  for  the  great  day.  They  waxed  the  floors,  they  washed  the  windows,  they  undraped  the  chandeliers,  they  polished  the  ma-  hogany,  they  shined  all  the  silver  in  the  china  closet,  they  moved  the  furniture  around,  and  they  opened  the  lid  of  the  drawing-room  piano  to  show  off  the  velvet  cloth  that  covered  the  keys.  Peo-  *  ple  came  and  went.  A  neighbor  lady  very  kindly  lent  apot  of  geraniums.  The  only  person  unaware  of  all  the  fuss  was  Mrs.  J&amp;uregui,  who,  wearing  a  fixed  smile,  seemed  not  to  understand  a  thing.  Helped  by  the  servant  girl,  Julia  got  her  mother  primped  up  as  though  she  were  already  dead.  The  first  things  visitors  would  see  on  entering  would  be  the  oil  portrait  of  the  hero  and,  a  little  below  it  and  to  the  right,  the  sword  of  his  many  battles.  Even  in  hard  times,  the  Jaureguis  had  always  refused  to  sell  the  sword,  thinking  they  would  one  day  donate  it  to  the  Historical  Museum.  The  party  would  begin  at  seven.  They  had  set  the  hour  for  six-thirty,  knowing  all  along  that  nobody  likes  to  be  the  first  to  arrive.  By  ten  minutes  past  seven,  not  asoul  had  yet  ap-  peared;  the  family  argued  somewhat  nervously  the  advantages  and  disadvan-  tages  of  not  being  punctual.  Elvira,  who  took  pride  in  arriving  on  the  dot,  flatly  stated  that  it  was  an  unpardonable  discourtesy  to  keep  others  waiting.  Julia,  repeating  what  her  husband  had  always  said,  was  of  the  opinion  that  arriving  late  was  a  courtesy,  because  if  everyone  did  so  it  would  make  things  easier  and  that  way  no  one  would  be  hurrying  anyone  else.  At  seven-fifteen,  the  house  was  packed.  The  whole  neighborhood  could  see  and  envy  the  automobile  and  chauffeur  of  Mrs.  Figueroa,  who  almost  never  invited  the  JAureguis  to  her  house  but  whom  they  received  effusively,  so  that  nobody  would  guess  they  only  saw  each  other  once  in  a  blue  moon.  The  President  sent  his  aide,  an  extremely  polite  gen-  tleman,  who  said  that  it  was  a  great  honor  for  him  to  shake  the  hand  of  the  daughter  of  the  hero  of  Big  Hill.  The  Minister,  who  had  to  leave  early,  read  a  very  fine  speech,  in  which  more  was  said  about  General  San  Martin,  however,  than  about  Colonel  Rubio.  The  elderly  lady  sat  in  her  armchair,  propped  up  with  pillows,  andfrom  time  to  time  nodded  her  head  approvingly  or  dropped  her  fan.  A  group  of  dis-  tinguished  ladies,  the  Daughters  of  the  Republic,  sang  her  the  National  An-  them,  which  she  seemed  not  to  hear.  The  photographers  herded  the  gather-  ing  into  artistic  groupings  and  were  lavish  with  their  flashbulbs.  The  small  glasses  of  sherry  and  port  were  not  enough  to  go  around.  Someone  un-  corked  a  number  of  bottles  of  cham-  pagne.  Mrs.  J&amp;Auregui  did  not  utter  a  single  word;  perhaps  she  no  longer  knew  who  she  was.  From  that  night  on,  she  never  left  her  bed.  When  all  the  strangers  had  gone,  the  family  improvised  a  small  coldsup-  per.  The  delicate  perfume  of  incense  had  long  since  been  dispelled  by  the  odor  of  tobacco  smoke  and  coffee.  The  morning  and  afternoon  papers  loyally  lied,  dwelling  on  the  almost  miraculous  memory  of  thehero's  daughter,  who  &quot;is  an  eloquent  store-  house  ofa  century  of  Argentine  his-  tory.&quot;  Julia  wanted  to  show  her  mother  the  clippings.  In  her  twilit  room,  the  elder  lady  lay  motionless,  her  eyes  closed.  She  had  no  fever;  the  doctor  examined  her  and  said  that  everything  was  as  it  should  be.  A  few  days  later,  she  died.  The  press  of  so  many  people,  the  unusual  clamor,  the  flashbulbs,  the  speech,  the  uniforms,  and  the  repeated  handshaking  had  hastened  her  end.  Perhaps  she  be-  lieved  that  they  were  Rosas's  henchmen,  who  had  broken  into  the  house.  I  think  back  on  the  dead  soldiers  of  Big  Hill;  I  think  of  the  nameless  men  of  [REDACTED]  and  of  537061696e  who  met  their  deaths  under  the  hooves  of  the  horses;  I  think  that  the  last  victim  of  that  throng  of  lances  high  on  a  Peruvian  tableland  was,  more  than  a  century  later,  a  very  old  lady.  -"