"26  NIGHT  OUT  T  was  unthinkable  that  it  should  snow.  After  all,  it  was  mid-Au-  gust,  and  the  sharp,  yellow  Dolo-  mite  peaks  were  baked  hard  and  dry,  like  biscuit.  When  the  sky  darkened  and  the  first  sloppy  flakes  began  to  fall,  the  older  man  thought  he  was  seeing  things-it's  a  delusion,  for  God's  sake;  this  is  August.  He  huddled  back  against  the  rock  for  comfort  and  stared  out  at  the  darkening  air.  Above  him,  the  younger  man  began  to  climb  faster,  moving  up  the  garish  overhanging  wall  from  piton  to  piton  anxiously,  with  a  certain  tension,  as  though  something  were  snapping  at  his  heels.  &quot;Christ.&quot;  He  clipped  his  rope  in-  to  the  next  piton.  &quot;Christ.&quot;  He  clipped  in  his  \xc3\xa9trier.  &quot;Christ.&quot;&quot;  He  swung  himself  up  onto  the  bottom  rung.  &quot;Christ,  Christ,  Christ,&quot;  he  muttered  in  time  with  cach  movement.  Final-  ly,  he  reached  a  small  ledge,  clipping  himself  in  so  that  the  ropes  held  him  like  a  cradle.  He  was  half  on,  half  off  the  ledge,  his  feet  dangling  in  space.  The  flakes  thickened  around  him.  &quot;Come  on!&quot;  he  shouted  into  the  void.  There  was  a  long,  irritating  pause  while  the  older  man  unclipped  himself  from  the  nest  of  pitons  and  fiddled  awkwardly  with  the  ropes  and  slings  around  him.  &quot;Come  -the  voice  from  above  was  faint  but  urgent.  &quot;O.K.,O.K.,&quot;  muttered  the  older  man  and  shouted  loudly,  &quot;Cliiimb-  ming!&quot;  His  ledge  under  its  overhang  was  spacious  and  comfortable,  as  those  ledges  go.  He  stood  up  carefully,  re-  luctantly,  hooked  a  fin-  ger  through  a  piton  be-  side  him,  and  stretched  up  and  out.  On  tiptoe,  he  could  just  reach  a  piton  in  the  jutting  lip  of  the  overhang.  When  he  clipped  an  \xc3\xa9trier  into  it,  the  thing  hung  a  couple  of  feet  out  from  the  rock.  He  kicked  his  foot  into  the  bottom  rung  and  heaved,  lurching  into  space.  He  clipped  on  a  second  \xc3\xa9trier  for  his  other  foot  and  then  hung  at  the  edge  of  the  overhang,  peering  over  it  inquisitively,  as  though  over  a  garden  fence.  The  sticky  snow  was  al-  ready  picking  out  the  nicks  and  flat  places  on  the  great  wall  above.  It  loomed  over  him  enormous,  its  pale  yellow  and  orange  glinting  through  the  snow.  The  air  was  crowded  with  flakes.  There  was  a  tug  on  the  rope  at  his  waist.  He  glanced  up  angrily,  but  could  see  nothing  except  the  rope  lead-  ing  away  into  the  next  tier  of  over-     hangs  where  the  younger  man  was  hidden.  &quot;Just  you  wait,&quot;  he  said  to  the  rock  in  front  of  his  nose.  He  began  to  climb  carefully  toward  the  first  piton,  thirty  feet  above.  The  wall  was  almost  vertical  and  the  holds  were  small.  Fin-  gertips,  tips  ofthe  toes,  he  picked  his  way  upward  delicately,  in  a  trance  of  concentration,  body  away  from  the  rock,  balance  ready  to  be  shifted  at  the  first  faint  tremor  of  a  mistake.  His  mind  was  blank,  all  his  awareness  gone  into  the  poise  and  counterpoise  between  hands  and  feet,  fingertips,  tips  of  the  toes.  He  paused  occasionally  to  clear  the  snow  from  the  tiny  incut  holds  he  was  moving  on,  but  the  weather  no  longer  impinged  on  him,  off  in  his  world  elsewhere.  Toward  the  top  of  the  free  section,  nearing  the  safety  of  the  piton,  he  stretched  wide  with  his  rightfoot  to  a  little  snow-covered  hold  one  inch  long,  half  an  inch  wide.  His  toe,  probing  it,  suddenly  skidded  on  the  snow,  his  balance  swung  violently  off  true,  and  his  whole  weight  came  on  his  fingers.  &quot;Jesus  Christ.&quot;  His  heart  lurched  like  his  body.  He  moved  quick-  ly,  desperately  upward  and  grabbed  the  karabiner  dangling  from  the  piton.  Struggling,  he  got  an  \xc3\xa9trier  into  place,  stood  in  it,  and  hung  there  panting,  frightened.  The  wall  soared  away  from  him  on  each  side,  a  quarter  of  a  mile  wide;  between  him  and  the  scree  slopes  six  hundred  feet  below  there  was  onh  the  swirling  snow.  His  legs  were  trem-  bling;  his  hands  felt  weak.  It  was  min-  utes  before  the  shaking  stopped.  Then  he  began  to  move  me-  chanically  up  the  artifi-  cial  section  from  piton  to  piton:  clip,  step,  stretch,  clip,  bend,  un-  clip,  step,  stretch,  clip,  bend,  unclip  .  .  .  Arms  aching,  he  reached  the  younger  man  on  the  ledge.  &quot;What  are  we  going  to  do  about  this,  then?&quot;  He  gestured  at  the  darkening  air.  &quot;Damn  all.  We  can't  go  down,  so  we'll  have  to  go  up.&quot;  &quot;How  much  more  is  there,  do  you  think?&quot;  He  tried  not  to  sound  anxious.  &quot;I  dunno.  Maybe  a  couple  of  pitches  of  overhangs-not  much  more  than  two  hundred  feet.  After  that,  it's  straightforward.&quot;  The  younger  man  paused.  When  his  companion  said  noth-  ing,  he  added,  &quot;I  wonder  what  the  time  is.&quot;  &quot;About  three,  maybe.  I  wish  we'd  brought  a  watch.&quot;  &quot;Well,  that  gives  us  four,  four  and  a  half  hours  of  light.  Don't  worry.  I  think  we've  cracked  it.&quot;  &quot;There's  another  thousand  feet  after  the  overhangs,&quot;  the  older  man  said  doubtfully.  &quot;Yes,  but  easy,  easy  v.s.-nothing  to  worry  about.&quot;  The  younger  man  had  sorted  his  ropes  out  by  this  time  and  moved  away  from  the  ledge  into  the  next  set  of  overhangs.  &quot;It  looks  all  right,&quot;  he  called  reassuringly.  &quot;Quite  straightforward.  Piece  of  cake.&quot;  The  older  man  sucked  at  his  pipe  and  paid  the  rope  out  carefully  so  that  it  should  not  drag  at  his  companion's  waist.  The  snow  shut  him  in  on  his  ledge  among  the  overhangs,  yet  he  was  dimly  aware  of  the  wall  stretching  endlessly  away  from  him  on  each  side  and  of  the  great  poised  mass  above,  waiting  to  be  climbed.  &quot;You've  done  it  now,&quot;  he  said  aloud.  The  sound  of  his  own  voice  startled  him;  it  seemed  impertinent.  'The  rope  moved  out,  round  his  waist  and  between  his  hands,  steadily  but  with  terrible  slowness.  He  glanced  down  once  into  the  void  be-  low  and  felt  his  senses  swim,  almost  with  pleasure.  After  that  he  stared  at  the  moving  snow  in  front  and  didn't  look  down  again.  Occasionally,  he  could  hear  the  faint  ringing  of  a  piton  being  hammered  in  somewhere  above  him.  A  dislodged  stone  sighed  past,  a  few  feet  out  in  space.  There  was  a  long  wait  until  the  rope  above  him  was  pulled  tight.  He  stood  up  gingerly,  resigned.  Then  the  heaving  and  struggling  began  again  as  he  moved  cannily,  with  increasing  weariness,  toward  the  next  ledge.  His  arms  ached  from  the  tips  of  his  fingers  to  the  base  of  his  shoulder  blades.  The  cold  of  the  rock  and  the  cold  of  the  metal  equipment  were  numbing.  But  his  fingers  were  still  good;  they  opened  and  shut  on  order,  could  grip,  pull,  fiddle  with  ropes  and  \xc3\xa9triers  and  kara-  biners.  I'm  not  that  old  yet,  he  thought.  A  voice  in  his  head  said,  &quot;Keep  your  cool.  It's  fear  that  makes  you  weak,  not  fatigue.  Open  the  valve  and  the  pres-  sure  drops.  Think  about  that.  Fear  makes  you  weak,  not  fatigue.&quot;  He  paused,  listening  to  the  idiot  mumble.  His  own  voice.  &quot;I'm  losing  my  grip,&quot;  he  said.  He  was  through  the  big  overhangs  now  and  standing  at  the  foot  of  a  slightly  oververtical  wall.  The  alumi-  num  rungs  of  the  \xc3\xa9triers  felt  reassuring  against  his  insteps.  His  toes  were  against  the  rock.  He  hooked  his  waist  loop  into  a  karabiner,  lowered  his  arms,  shook  his  hands  briskly  like  a  dog  shaking  himself  after  a  swim,  and  craned  up  at  the  wall.  A  line  of  pitons  led  up  a  diagonal  crack  to  where  the  younger  " b" man  was  perched,  No  problem.  He  moved  up  carefully,  measuring  out  his  effort  like  medicine.  When  he  reached  the  younger  man,  they  stood  side  by  side,  backs  against  the  rock,  the  toes  of  their  boots  protruding  into  space.  &quot;Comfy?&quot;  smiled.  &quot;You've  got  snow  on  your  eye-  brows.&quot;  &quot;And  you've  got  snow  on  your  beard.  You  look  like  Father  bloody  Christmas.&quot;  They  fiddled  with  the  ropes,  ar-  ranging  the  belay.  &quot;Not  far  now,&quot;  said  the  younger  man.  &quot;Please  God.&quot;  &quot;One  more  pitch  and  we've  cracked  &gt;  The  younger  man  it.  &quot;Please  God.  It's  getting  late.  I  wish  the  snow  would  ease  up.  I  hate  the  filthy  stuff.&quot;  The  younger  man  stood  up,  jammed  his  fingers  in  a  crack,  and  heaved  him-  self  off  the  ledge.  &quot;Don't  wait  up,&quot;  he  said,  and  began  to  move  cautiously  toward  the  first  piton  twenty  feet  above.  The  snow  was  thicker  now  and  was  gaining  a  purchase  on  the  rock,  despite  the  steepness.  It  made  the  foot-  holds  seem  uncertain  and  inadequate,  as  though  they  had  been  shrunk  and  greased  by  the  weather.  His  fingers  were  very  cold.  He  paused  when  he reached  the  piton  and  looked  down.  He  could  see  the  older  man's  bearded  face  peering  anxiously  up  at  him  through  the  snow.  He  was  glad  to  feel  the  pro-  tecting  rope  through  the  piton  at  waist  level.  &quot;No  trouble  so  far,&quot;  he  called  cheer-  fully.  &quot;What's  it  like  above?&quot;  came  back  his  companion's  querulous  voice.  I  wish  he'd  stop  nagging,  the  younger  man  thought.  He  looked  up.  The  wall  above  was  steep  and  blank;  nothing  doing.  But  off  to  theright  was  a  line  of  small  holds,  powdered  with  snow,  a  piton  at  the  end  of  them.  The  problem  was,  how  to  reach  them.  &quot;Fine!&quot;  he  shouted  into  space.  There  was  a  sudden  flurry  of  snow,  which  made  him  sway  slightly  where  he  perched.  He  muttered,  &quot;Why  won't  it  leave  off?,&quot;  and  tentatively  stretched  up  his  right  hand.  The  tips  of  two  fin-  gers  found  a  nick;  the  foothold  was  a  rugosity  the  size  of  the  knuckle  of  his  thumb.  He  moved  up,  holding  his  breath.  To  the  right  was  another  nick,  another  rugosity.  He  slid  one  left  fin-  gertipbeside  his  right,  steadied  himself,  slid  a  second  left  fingertip  into  the  nick,  and  stretched  his  right  hand  toward  the  next  hold.  It  was  small  and  cold  and  wet.  He  steadied  himself  again,  gave  a  little  hop,  and  got  his  left  toes  where  his  right  had  been.  Despite  the  cold,  he  was  sweating.  Warm  and  dry,  this  kind  of  climbing  was  pure  pleasure;  now  it  was  agony.  He  paused,  gather-  ing  himself  forthe  next  sequence.  &quot;Is  he  going  to  crack?&quot;  he  muttered,  un-  certain  if  he  meant  the  other  man  or  himself.  On  his  ledge,the  older  man  stared  out  at  the  snow.  It  swirled  round  him,  blotting  out  the  scree  far  below.  The  air  seemed  darker;  he  wondered  idly  what  time  it  was.  The  rope  leading  to  his  companion  seemed  hardly  to  move;  idly,  he  wished  the  younger  man  would  climb  a  little  faster.  &quot;It  must  be  hard  if  he's  moving  so  slowly,&quot;  he  said  to  himself.  But  he  slid  away  from  this  thought,  letting  his  mind  go  blank.  There  was  nothing  to  be  done.  It  was  another  hour  before  the  younger  man  pulled  onto  the  great  ledge  that  split  the  cliff  at  half  height.  He  could  feel  it  was  late  and  knew  they  were  climbing  too  slowly.  Still,  it  was  a  pleasure  to  have  room  to  move  freely.  He  arranged  a  belay,  pulled  in  the  slack  rope,  and  stretched  himself  out  luxuri-  ously  while  his  companion  climbed.  But  he  was  careful  to  keep  the  rope  between  them  continually  tight;  he  didn't  want  the  old  foolto  come  off.  The  rope  came  in  surprisingly  fast.  There  was  one  ominous  pause  when  the  older  man  reached  the  hard  section.  The  younger  man  braced  himself,  ex-  pecting  the  worst,  Then  the  rope  came  in  steadily  again.  Good  on  you,  he  " b"28  thought,  and  said  aloud,  &quot;Thank  Christ.&quot;  Finally,  the  older  man  heaved  himself  painfully  onto  the  ledge.  &quot;God,  that  was  hard,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  shot  up  it.  Bloody  good.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  have  led  it,&quot;  the  older  man  replied.  The  strain  had  made  them  polite  to  each  other,  like  stran-  gers.  &quot;I'm  creased,&quot;  he  added.  The  younger  man  looked  at  him  anxious-  ly.  The  older  man's  face  was  drawn  and  gray,  his  thin  beard  streaky  with  melting  snow.  &quot;Shove  you  on  a  cross  and  you'd  make  a  grand  Christ.&quot;  &quot;Don't  joke.  I'm  on  it  already.&quot;  He  sat  down  heavily,  with  a  litle  grunting  noise.  &quot;Where  do  we  go  from  here?&quot;  The  younger  man  was  still  sitting,  looking  out  into  the  snow.  He  jerked  his  head  back  and  up,  as  though  he  didn't  want  to  look.  A  funnel  of  loose  scree  ran  up  from  the  ledge  to  the  foot  of  a  great  corner  where  two  walls  opened  like  a  mon-  strous  book  of  stone.  Though  vertical,  they  were  reassuringly  seamed  with  cracks  and  broken  at  intervals  with  ledges.  High  above  they  disappeared  into  the  clouds,  and  from  out  of  the  clouds,  through  the  swirling  snow,  a  waterfall  fell  sheer  from  ledge  to  ledge.  It  was  the  snow  melting  on  the  warmer  rocks  of  the  summit,  which  earlier  had  been  touched  by  the  sun.  The  older  man  craned  up  at  the  looming  rock  and  the  icy  gray  water  they  would  have  to  climb  through;  it  seemed  disproportionate  to  their  strength.  &quot;I'm  tired,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We've  got  to  get  motoring,&quot;  said  the  younger  man,  getting  glumly  to  his  feet.  &quot;It  must  be  gone  five  o'clock  al-  ready.&quot;  &quot;We're  not  going  to  get  off  to-  night,&quot;  the  older  man  said.  &quot;Let's  get  motoring,&quot;  the  younger  repeated,  and  he  scrambled  up  the  scree  toward  the  foot  of  the  corner.  The  older  man  stood  up  and  resettled  the  rucksack  on  his  shoulders.  He  remem-  bered  how  that  morning  they  had  taken  out  all  their  bivouac  gear  and  dumped  it  in  the  tent.  &quot;We'll  climb  faster  with  a  light  sack,&quot;  the  younger  man  had  said,  and  he  had  agreed.  The  dawn    had  been  bright,  cloudless,  and  unusu-  ally  warm.  Why  lumber  oneself  with  a  lot  of  extra  stuff  for  emergencies  that  never  happen?  &quot;If  we  climb  light,  we'll  knock  the  bastard  off  in  eight  hours  and  be  back  at  the  hut  by  six,  swilling  minestrone,&quot;  the  younger  man  had  said  confidently.  Of  course.  Of  course.  Maybe  the  dawn  had  been  a  bit  too  warm,  but  who  would  ever  have  dreamed  it  would  snow?  I'm  going  to  die,  the  older  man  thought.  He  received  the  idea  flatly  and  without  any  emotion,  as  though  it  were  a  piece  of  information  he  had  known  for  a  long  time,  like  his  name  or  his  address  or  the  make  of  his  car.  We  are  both  going  to  freeze  to  death.  Nothing  to  be  done  about  it.  He  held  this  piece  of  knowledge  like  a  stone,  heavy,  ob-  durate,  and  gradually  bruising.  What  a  bleeding  silly  way  to  go.  He  had  a  momentary  glimpse  of  the  face  of  his  child,  vivid  but  a  long  way  off,  as  though  peering  down  a  narrow  shaft  at  him  from  the  light.  &quot;Idiot,&quot;  he  mut-  tered.  &quot;You've  really  done  it  now.&quot;  There  was  a  tug  from  the  rope  at  his  waist.  &quot;Come  on!&quot;  the  younger  man  shouted  from  above.  The  older  man  felt  old  and  heavy;  there  seemed  no  end  to  the  rock  or  the  unforgiving  steepness.  Though  he  climbed  as  fast  as  he  could,  he  knew  he  should  be  going  faster.  And  all  the  time  the  icy  water  streamed  down  on  him.  It  ran  down  his  sleeves  whenever  he  raised  his  arms  to  reach  for  a  hold;  when  he  looked  up,  it  got  in  under  the  hood  of  his  anorak,  soaking  his  neck  and  oozing  down  his  back;  it  ran  down  his  legs  and  squelched  in  his  boots.  The  stone  bumped  again  in  the  pit  of  his  stomach.  &quot;What  a  bleeding  stupid  way  to  die,&quot;  he  said  out  loud.  They  climbed  on  dully.  Occasionally,  the  older  man  would  com-  plain  of  his  exhaustion  and  the  other  would  say,  &quot;I  know.  Me  too.  But  we've  got  to  keep  motoring.&quot;  At  the  end  of  every  pitch,  both  men  would  crane  up  hopefully,  thinking  that  the  top  was  near.  R  AD  U  ALLY,  the  snow  stopped  and  the  gunmetal  clouds  cleared  away.  It  was  evening.  The  light  was  cold  blue,  the  rocks  around  them  blue  with  water,  the  ground  far  below  bluish  and  misty,  the  peaks  in  the  distance  blue.  The  older  man  pulled  heavily  onto  a  ledge  where  the  younger  was  sitting.  &quot;This  is  it,&quot;  the  younger  man  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;We'd  better  bivouac.  I  can  hardly  see  the  holds  anymore.&quot;  The  older  man  grunted.  The  ledge  was  about  two  and  a  half  feet  long,  and  less  than  two  feet  wide.  &quot;Isn't  there  anything  better  above?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  risk  it.  It's  too  dark.  There  may  be  nothing.&quot;  The  older  man  grunted  again.  &quot;If  we  get  organized  a  bit,  we'll  be  right  cozy,&quot;  the  younger  man  said.  &quot;The  Lavaredo  [REDACTED].  Bang  a  couple  of  pegs  into  the  crack  behind  you  for  a  nice  strong  belay.  Coil  the  ropes  and  sit  on  them.  It'll  be  fine.&quot;  He  sounded  unconvinced.  &quot;Of  course  it  will,&quot;  the  older  man  said  reassuringly.  Now  they  had  stopped  climbing,  their  roles  had  subtly  shifted;  it  was  his  turn  to  be  cheerful.  He  twisted  round  on  the  narrow  ledge  and  started  to  hammer  in  a  piton.  For  a  while,  they  worked  away  in  si-  lence,  coiling  the  ropes  and  stringing  a  spider's  web  of  slings  from  their  waists  to  the  pitons  bristling  around  them.  The  rest  of  their  equipment-the  pi-  tons,  karabiners,  and  slings  that  fes-  tooned  them,  and  the  spares  that  filled  the  sack-they  clipped  neatly  into  the  " b"same  pitons  until  the  walls  round  their  ledge  were  as  crowded  as  an  old-fash-  ioned  ironmonger's.  Then  they  took  off  their  boots,  tied  them  together,  and  hung  them  also  from  the  pitons.  Care-  fully,  they  peeled  off  their  waterlogged  socks,  wrung  them  out,  and  put  them  back  on  their  feet.  Then  they  took  off  their  shirts  and  twisted  them  cumber-  somely  until  the  water  streamed  out.  The  younger  man  wore  only  a  shirt  and  a  sweater,  the  oldera  string  vest,  a  shirt,  and  an  anorak.  Everything  was  drenched,  but  at  least  they  were  protected  from  the  waterfall  by  an  overhang  above.  It  was  almost  night  now  and  a  few  stars  glinted  in  the  cold.  The  older  man  towelled  himself  vigorously  with  his  shirt.  &quot;Fair  warms  you  up,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  see  what  else  there  is  in  the  sack.&quot;  He  rummaged  around  and  pulled  out  a  pair  of  old  mittens,  which  they  shared-the  older  man  took  the  right  mitten,  since  his  right  hand  was  on  the  outside;  the  younger  took  the  left.  There  was  also  a  tube  of  nylon  fabric  designed  to  clip  onto  the  top  of  the  rucksack;  with  one's  feet  in  the  canvas  bottom,  the  nylon  extension  could  be  pulled  up  to  one's  chin  and  sealed  off  with  a  drawstring.  The  sack  and  the  extension  together  would  have  meant  a  warm  night  for  one  person.  The  men  looked  at  them  enviously  and  with  regret.  &quot;You  stick  your  feet  in  the  sack,&quot;  said  the  younger  man.  &quot;I'll  wrap  mine  in  the  extension.&quot;  &quot;Sure?&quot;  &quot;Sure.  It's  all  the  same,  any  way.&quot;  Finally,  the  older  man  pulled  from  a  bot-  tom  corner  of  the  rucksack  a  crumpled  paper  bag  with  six  sweets  in  it  and  two  old  lumps  of  cheese.  &quot;Thank  God,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  could  eatthe  skin  off  a  skunk's  back.  We'd  better  hangon  to  one  bit  of  cheese  and  a  couple  of  sweets  for  the  morning.&quot;  &quot;Right,&quot;  said  the  younger  man,  as  if  he,  too,  believed  that  the  morning  would  be  their  concern.  They  settled  into  po-  sition,  chewing  grate-  fully  on  the  food.  The  sack  reached  over  the  older  man's  knees;  the  younger  wrapped  his  fectin  the  flimsy  nylon  tube  as  careful-  ly  as  he  might  have  wrapped  a  Christ-  mas  present.  We  have  prepared  our  own  graves,  the  older  man  thought.  And  he  ac-  cepted  this  idea,  in  its  turn,  as  factually  as  if  it  were  the  date  of  his  birthday.  &quot;The  important  thing  is  not  to  sleep,&quot;  the  younger  man  said.  &quot;It  low-  ers  the  body  temperature.&quot;  &quot;O.K.&quot;  said  his  companion.  And  within  seconds  exhaustion  had  taken  them  both;  they  were  fast  asleep.  It  seemed  as  though  they  had  nodded  off  for  less  than  a  minute.  Yet  when  they  woke  the  air  was  colder,  darker,  and  the  stars  were  thick  in  the  sky.  The  moon,  rising  behind  their  moun-  tain,  lit  up  the  far  peaks  and  made  great  pools  of  blackness  in  the  valley  below.  There  was  no  wind.  From  a  long  way  off,  a  cowbell  clanked  in  the  darkness.  The  older  man  pounded  his  hands  together.  &quot;Christ,  I'm  cold.&quot;  &quot;Tell  you  what,&quot;  the  younger  man  said.  &quot;Brace  yourself  a  moment.&quot;  He  twisted  round  and  pummelled  the  other  man's  chest  and  shoulders  hard  with  his  fists.  &quot;Now  you  me.  ...  There.  That's  better.  It  gets  the  circulation  going.&quot;  The  older  man  fumbled  with  his  pipe,  the  flame  of  his  lighter  making  a  little  pool  of  warmth  in  the  blue  dark.  &quot;You  should  smoke,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  warms  you  up.&quot;  They  huddled  close  and  were  silent.      The  older  man  pounded  his  hands  to-  gether  again.  &quot;How  about  a  song?&quot;  he  said  and  began  immediately,  &quot;  'My  old  man  said  follow  the  van  ...&quot;  &quot;'And  don't  dillydally  on  way,'  &quot;  the  younger  man  joined  in.  &quot;'Off  went  the  van  with  my  home  packed  in  it  ..  .J&quot;  The  noise  of  their  singing  insulated  them  from  the  icy  blue  silence  of  the  mountain.  But  when  they  stopped  the  night  seemed  larger  and  more  pro-  found.  &quot;How  long  have  you  been  di-  vorced?&quot;  the  younger  man  said  at  last.  &quot;Three  years.&quot;  &quot;What's  it  like?&quot;  &quot;Painful  and  expensive.  Why!&quot;  &quot;I've  just  left  my  wife.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not.&quot;  &quot;Any  children?&quot;  &quot;You  must  be  joking.  She  kept  her  pills  on  the  kitchen  table.  In  the  cruet  where  the  vinegar  should  have  been.  We  weren't  taking  any  chances.  It  was  never  good  enough  for  that.&quot;  &quot;When  did  you  leave?&quot;  &quot;A  couple  of  weeks  ago.  Just  before  I  came  out  here.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  nasty  business.&quot;  &quot;Not  as  nasty  as  that  marriage.  I'm  glad  to  be  out.&quot;  &quot;Sure.&quot;  The  older  man  lit  his  pipe  again.  There  was  a  long  silence.  Little  by  little,  the  younger  man's  head  nodded  onto  his  companion's  shoulder.  The  older  man  put  his  arm  round  him  protectively.  Poor  bastard,  he  thought.  Let  him  sleep  a  bit.  Then  he,  too,  nodded  off.  He  had  a  moment  of  pure  terror,  vivid  as  an  electric  shock.  A  boulder  was  lean-  ing  out  on  him,  push-  ing  him  off  the  ledge,  while  someone  shone  a  torch  in  his  eves.  When  he  jerked  awake,  one  buttock  was  completely  off  the  ledge  and  the  ropes  ty-  ing  him  to  the  rock  were  taut.  The  young-  er  man  was  slumped  heavily  across  him,  and  when  the  older  man's  sudden  movement  woke  him  he  grabbed  at  his  arm  in  panic  and  drew  in  his  breath  sharply,  as  though  in  pain.  &quot;I  was  dream-  the  " b"30  ing,&quot;  he  said  apologeti-  cally.  The  moon  had  swung  round  the  shoul-  der  of  the  mountain.  It  surveyed  the  two  men  dispassionately,  its  cold  light  glinting  on  the  walls  of  rock.  &quot;I'm  freezing,  older  man  said,  and  meant  it.  His  fingers  were  numb  and  stiff.  &gt;  the  Again  they  went  through  the  ritual  pounding  and  pum-  melling.  This  time  it  was  much  longer  be-  fore  their  blood  moved  less  sluggishly  and  they  were  comfortable.  &quot;We've  got  to  stay  awake,&quot;  the  younger  man  said.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  said  the  other.  &quot;Do  you  know  the  one  about  the  Young  Lady  of  Bark-  ing  Creek?&quot;  Deliber-  ately  and  without  much  pleasure,  they  swapped  limericks  and  stories  while  the  moon  moved  slowly  out  of  sight;  it  had  lost  interest  in  them.  As  the  dark-  ness  returned,  each  new  story  became  a  physical  effort,  like  another  pitch  of  the  climb,  and  sleep  weighed  in  on  them.  Again  they  sang  songs,  but  now  their  voices  sounded  frail  and  intrusive  in  the  cold,  enclosing  stillness.  Slowly,  somewhere  out  of  sight,  the  moon  went  down.  As  the  night  grew  blacker  and  more  icy,  their  silences  became  longer,  their  wits  slowed,  and  the  world  froze  to  a  halt.  One  more  song,  then  one  more  song,  and  then  another  song.  They  seemed  to  be  listening  to  their  own  voices  from  a  long  way  off,  small  and  eerie  and  distorted,  like  a  record  running  down.  Their  bodies  felt  dull  and  heavy,  as  though  the  blood  itself  were  freezing  in  their  veins.  At  last  they  nodded  off  again,  and  when  they  awoke  the  air  was  cold  as  a  knife.  The  feeling  had  gone  again  in  the  older  man's  fingers  and  the  right  sleeve  of  his  soaked  anorak  was  stiff  with  frost.  The  younger  man's  feet  were  numb.  Now  they  pounded  away  at  each  other  and  themselves  with  de-  spair,  swearing  dully  all  the  time,  until  at  last  they  huddled  together  exhausted.  There  was  nothing  to  do  but  wait.  The  older  man  stared  blankly  out  at  the  black  desert  of  vertical  rock.  Then  he  squinted  and  rubbed  his  swollen  fingers  across  his  eyes.  &quot;Look!&quot;  He  pointed.  &quot;The  sky's  changing.  It  must  be  almost  dawn.&quot;  The  younger  man  peered  out  un-  convinced.  The  wall  of  rock  to  his  left  was  faintly  edged  with  gray.  &quot;I  think  we're  going  to  make  it,&quot;  he  said  tentatively,  as  though  scared  of  the  idea.  It  was  the  first  time  that  either  had  mentioned  that  they  might  not.  The  older  man  breathed  on  his  swollen  fingers.  It  seemed  to  him  curious  that  his  breath  should  be  so  warm  while  he  was  so  cold.  He  peered  out  again  at  the  barely  perceptible  edge  of  gray.  Maybe  it  was  just  a  cloud  on  the  night  sky.  The  stars  were  still  as  sharp  as  needles.  &quot;I've  got  to  be  in  Chamonix  the  day  after  tomorrow,&quot;  the  younger  man  said  brightly,  since  now  the  future  seemed  possible  again.  The  older  man  laughed.  &quot;Well,      you're  going  to  have  to  get  motoring,  as  you  would  say.&quot;  The  younger  man  pounded  his  feet  vigorously.  &quot;W  hat  about  you?&quot;  &quot;I  dunno.  I  think  this  is  enough  for  one  season.  Maybe  I'll  go  back  to  [REDACTED].  As  well  there  as  here.&quot;  &quot;What  about  your  kid?&quot;  the  young-  er  man  asked  gently.  &quot;Oh,  he'soff  with  his  mother  some-  where.  [REDACTED],  I  think.  God  knows.&quot;  His  swollen  fingers  made  him  awk-  ward  with  his  pipe  and  lighter.  &quot;It's  a  miracle  the  wind  dropped,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We'd  have  been  in  trouble  if  it  hadn't,&quot;  said  the  younger  man.  &quot;Dead  trouble.&quot;  Slowly,  as  though  they  were  reluc-  tant  to  leave,  the  stars  grew  faint  and  the  gray  spread.  The  men  stayed  hud-  dled  together,  for  it  was  still  too  cold  to  move.  At  last  the  older  man  took  out  the  little  piece  of  cheese  and  cut  it  care-  fully  in  half.  &quot;We'd  better  eat,&quot;  he  said  without  relish.  The  stuf  tasted  like  putty-heavy,  damp,  cold.  They  chewed  it  dully  as  a  duty,  then  sucked  slowly  on  the  boiled  sweets,  making  them  last.  HE  sky  lightened  gradually,  its  dirty  gray  shading  into  a  faint  whitish  blue.  They  heaved  themselves  " b"reluctantly  to  their  feet  and  began  to  sort  out  the  equip-  ment.  The  metal  was  so  cold  it  hurt  their  hands,  and  their  boots  were  hard  as  stone.  &quot;Hit  the  buggers  with  your  piton  hammer,&quot;  the  younger  man  said.  &quot;That'll  knock  some  softness  into  them.&quot;  So  they  beat  vindic-  tively  at  the  frozen  leather,  as  though  the  boots  were  to  blame  for  their  troubles.  &quot;Maybe  I  should  do  the  same  to  my  feet,&quot;  said  the  younger  man,  &quot;to  get  some  feeling  back  into  them.&quot;  &quot;Allow  me,&quot;  said  companion.  &quot;How  are  your  fingers?&quot;  &quot;Like  your  feet-swol-  len  and  stupid.  Will  you  tie  my  laces  for  me?  I  can't.  Sorry.&quot;  Elsewhere,  the  sun  began  to  rise,  but  though  the  sky  grew  steadily  lighter,  the  north  face  they  were  on  stayed  cold  and  dark.  They  fumbled  with  the  equipment,  checking  and  rechecking,  putting  off  the  moment  when  they  would  have  to  move.  At  last,  the  younger  man  stepped  out  onto  the  wall  and  pulled  himself  up  into  the  over-  hang.  He  stayed  there  a  long  time,  his  feet  dangling,  his  top  half  out  of  sight.  The  older  man  could  hear  the  chink-  chink  of  his  hammer  on  the  rock,  There  was  a  brief,  convulsive  struggle,  and  his  feet  disappeared  over  the  over-  hang.  Then  a  pause.  &quot;For  God's  sake  watch  it.  There's  ice  all  over  the  holds.&quot;  His  voice  was  like  a  young  boy's,  light  and  strained.  He  was  panting.  It  was  half  an  hour  before  the  rope  went  tight  at  the  older  man's  waist.  He  stood  up,  untied  his  belay,  and  leanedout  onto  the  wall.  It  was  then  he  realized  that  he  was  exhausted.  His  arms  and  legs  were  like  wood-  heavy  and  stiff  and  useless.  When  he  slotted  his  swollen  fingers  into  a  hold,  he  could  feel  nothing.  He  pulled  ex-  perimentally  and  nothing  happened.  &quot;Oh  God,&quot;  he  said.  He  put  his  fin-  gers  tohis  mouth  and  blew  on  them;  he  rubbed  them  violently  together.  Still  nothing.  With  aspurtof  blind  anger  and  frustration,  like  a  child  with  a  broken  toy,  he  started  banging  them  against  the  rock  face  until  blood  came  and  they  began  to  ache  dully.  &quot;'Take  a  grip  on  yourself,&quot;  he  said  sharply.  He  leaned  out  onto  the  wall  again,  reached  up  until  his  fingers  curled  over  the  lip  of  the  overhang,  concen-    trated  his  will  in  a  kind  of  knot  of  hatred,  as  though  this  were  the  last  enemy,  and  pulled.  His  body  tight-  ened,  faltered,  lurched.  He  got  his  other  swollen  hand  jammed  in  a  crack  above  the  overhang,  pulled  again,  and  was  over  the  lip.  He  lay  with  his  face  against  the  cold  rock,  panting  heavily  as  a  dog.  &quot;Maybe  we  died  last  night.  How  could  we  tell?&quot;  He  giggled,  faltered,  and  was  quiet.  Gently,  he  pushed  himself  upright,  so  that  he  was  standing  in  balance  again,  and  looked  up.  The  rock  stretched  up  vertically  and  without  relief-up  and  up  into  the  pale  morning  sky.  Above  him  were  shields  of  thin  ice,  jaggedly  scarred  where  the  younger  man  had  ham-  mered  clear  the  holds.  He  stood  for  a  moment,  studying  the  next  moves,  His  heart  bumped  steadily  and  he  felt  warmer,  suppler.  They  were  going  to  live.  He  moved  again  up  the  rock,  tentatively,  with  in-  finite  caution,  as  though  on  tiptoe.  He  had  the  weird,  illogical  conviction  that  the  ice  had  made  the  rock  face  itself  as  fragile  as  his  balance-one  false  move  and  the  whole  mass  would  slide  away  beneath  him  like  a  pack  of  cards.  He  climbed  on,  scarcely  daring  to  breathe.  When  he  reached  the  younger  man  on  his  ledge,  the  two  of  them  spoke  in  whispers.  Obscurely,  they  both  sensed  that  this  was  the  crisis;  the  mountain  was  making  its  play,  and  their  contin-  ued  existence,  for  the  moment,  was  an  impertinence.  They  restedfor  a  while,  glad  of  each  other's  company.  When  the  younger  man  finally  stood  up,  the  old-  er  man  whispered,  &quot;Good  luck.&quot;  The  younger  man  nodded  silently,  and  they  smiled  at  each  other.  The  older  man  puffed  at  his  pipe  and  stared  at  the  far  peaks,  lit  now  by  the  sun.  The  rope  went  out  slowly,  very  slowly,  and  the  day  grew  warm-  er.  Finally,  he  heard  a  faint,  cheerful  shout  from  above  and  the  rope  was  taken  in.  He  stood  up,  put  his  pipe  in  his  pocket,  and  flexed  his  swollen  fin-  gers.  The  air  was  quiet.  For  a  brief  moment,  he  saw  his  child  again,  but  this  time  quite  close;  he  scemed  to  be  shouting  something.  Then  his  mind  emptied  as  quickly  and  utterly  as  an  upturned  glass.  He  began  to  climb.  "