"RE  THE  TONVER  PROJECT  ANY  of  our  personnel,  con-  scious  of  the  uncertainties  of  the  construction  business,  have  voiced  concern  relative  to  their  future  employment  with  the  Company.  What  lies  ahead  on  our  horizon,  they  won-  der,  of  the  magnitude  of  the  Fred  M.  and  Ida  S.  Freebold  Performing  Arts  Center,  the  Tannersfield  Freeway  Overpass,  and  other  works  that  have  put  us  in  the  constructioneering  fore-  front?  They  recall  the  cancellation  in  mid-contract  of  the  [REDACTED]  Parking  Lot  project,  and  they  ask,  &quot;Will  the  Super-Tall  Tower  project,  too,  go  down  the  drain,  with  a  resultant  loss  of  jobs  and  Company  position  in  the  build-  ing  field?&quot;  The  Company  believes  such  will  not  be  the  case.  While  we  aren't  putting  all  our  &quot;eggs&quot;  on  one  tower  and  are  keeping  an  eye  on  the  Los  Angeles-  Honolulu  Bridge  option  and  the  pro-  posed  Lake  Michigan  Floating  Airport,  we  feel  that  the  Super-Tall  Tower  has  achieved  priority  status  in  [REDACTED],  and  all  phases  of  research  and  develop-  ment,  land  clearance,  and  counter-  resistance  are  moving  forward  in  expectation  of  final  approval.  As  for  the  Tower  critics,  they  are  few  in  number,  and  there  isn't  one  of  their  objections  that  we  haven't  an-  swered.  Let's  look  at  the  record.  Their  fa-  vorite  line  is  &quot;Why  build  a  Super-T  all  Tower  when  money  is  so  urgently  needed  for  cancer  and  poverty?&quot;  With  all  due  respect  to  the  unwell  or  im-  poverished  person  and  his  or  her  family,  we  state  our  case  as  fol-  lows:  First,  Tower  con-  struction  will  create  a  hundred  thousand  new  jobs,  not  only  in  the  Babel  area  and  the  Greater  Southwest  but  also  in  other  places  where  the  bricks  and  slime  will  be  made  by  subcontractors,  Second,  because  it  will  be  the  world's  tall-  est  tower,  we  will  be  able  to  see  more  from  it  than  from  any  exist-  ing  tower.  Third,  we  have  reason  to  believe  the  Chinese  are  well  along  in  the  development  of  their  tower.  If  we  don't  wish  to  abdicate  tower  leadership  to  Communist  nations,  however  friend-  ly  at  the  moment,  we  can't  afford  to  slow  down  now.  To  do  so  would  mean  the  waste  of  all  the  money  spent  on  tower  research  so  far  and  would  set  back  American  tower  technology  for  decades  to  come.  Thus,  our  national  prestige  is  at  stake-not  merely  na-  tional  pride  but  the  confidence  in  our  ability  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the  future.  When  a  nation  looks  away  from  the  future  and  turns  inward,  it  begins  to  die  as  a  civilization.  Man  has  long  dreamed  of  building  a  tall  tower  from  which  he  could  look  out  and  see  many  interesting  and  unusual  things.  Most  Americans,  we  believe,  share  this  dream.  Fourth,  environmentalist  groups  have  predicted  various  disastrous  effects  from  the  Tower-that  the  humming  noise  of  its  high-speed  elevator  will  be  &quot;unbearable&quot;  to  the  passengers  and  to  nearby  residents,  that  its  height  will     25  confuse  migrating  birds,  that  its  long  shadow  will  anger  the  sun,  and  so  forth.  The  Company's  research  labora-  tory  has  engaged  in  a  crash  program  that  has  already  achieveda  significant  degree  of  hum  reduction;  at  the  same  time,  our  engineers  are  quick  to  point  out  that  since  no  elevator  now  in  serv-  ice  can  approach  the  speed  and  accom-  panying  hum  projected  for  the  Tower  elevator,  there  is  no  viable  data  on  which  to  base  the  entire  concept  of  an  &quot;unbearable&quot;  hum.  Such  a  determina-  tion  must  wait  until  the  completion  of  the  Tower.  In  any  event,  the  hum  may  serve  to  warn  off  approaching  birds.  As  for  the  sun,  we  feel  that,  with  certain  sacrifices,  this  problem  can  be  taken  care  of.  Finally,  Tower  critics  contend  that  only  a  wealthy  person  could  afford  to  buy  a  ticket  for  the  elevator  ride.  This  statement,  while  partly  true,  is  misleading.  The  Tower  plans  include  provision  for  a  strongladder  to  be  constructed  on  the  exterior,  so  that  a  person  of  limited  means  who  wished  to  reach  the  top  could  do  so  if  he  ap-  plied  himself  diligently  over  a  length  of  time. "