"THE  BALUCHITHERIUM  N  1911,  C.  Forster-Cooper  of  the  British  Museum  unearthed  in  Ba-  luchistan  some  extraordinary  foot  bones  and  a  single  provocative  neck  vertebra.  Thus  the  Baluchitherium  first  intruded  upon  modern  consciousness.  Eleven  years  later,  in  Mongolia,  an  al-  most  complete  skull  of  the  creature  was  uncovered,  and  in  1925  the  four  legs  and  feet  of  another  individual,  evi-  dently  trapped  and  preserved  in  quick-  sand,  came  to  light.  From  these  un-  happy  fragments  an  image  of  the  living  Baluchitherium  was  assembled.  His  skull  was  five  feet  long,  his  body  twen-  ty-seven.  He  stood  eighteen  feet  high  at  the  shoulders  (where  the  North  American  titanothere  measured  a  mere  eight  feet,  the  bull  African  elephant  eleven  ).  Though  of  the  family  Rhino-  cerotidae,  the  Baluchitherium's  face  was  innocent  of  any  horn;  his  neck  was  long  and  his  upper  lip  prehensile,  for  seizing  leaves  twenty-two  feet  above  the  ground.  He  was  the  largest  mam-  mal  that  ever  lived  on  land.  Recently,  I  had  the  pleasure  of  an  interview  with  the  Baluchitherium.  The  technical  process  would  be  tedious  to  describe;  briefly,  it  involved  feeding  my  body  into  a  computer  (each  cell  translates  into  approximately  120,000,-  000  electronic  &quot;bits&quot;)  and  then  tran-  secting  the  tape  with  data  on  the  ob-  ject  and  moment  in  time-space  to  be  &quot;met.&quot;  The  process  proved  painless;  a  sustained,  rather  dental  humming  tingled  in  every  nerve,  and  an  exotic,  unpopulous  vista  opened  up  around  me.  I  knew  I  was  in  Asia,  since  the  baluchitheres  never  ventured  off  the  continent.  The  landscape  was  typical  Ol'gocene:  aglossy  green  mush  of  subtropical  vegetation-palms,  fig  trees,  ferns-yielded,  on  the  d'stant  pink  hill-  sides  of  aeolian  shale,  to  a  scattering  of  conifers  and  deciduous  hardwoods.  Un-  derfoot,  the  spread  of  the  grasses  was  beginning.  Venturing  forward,  I  found  the  Ba-  luchitherium  embowered  in  a  grove  of  giant  cycads.  He  was  reading  a  docu-  ment  or  missive  printed  on  a  huge  sheet  of  what  appeared  to  be  rough-textured  cardboard.  When  I  expressed  surprise  at  this,  the  Baluchitherium  laughed  genially  and  explained,  &quot;We  pulp  it  by  mastication  and  then  stamp  it  flat  with  our  feet.&quot;  He  held  up  for  my  admira-  tion  one  of  his  extraordinary  feet-  columnar,  ungulate,  odd-toed.  What  I  had  also  not  been  led  by  the  fossil  rec-  ord  to  expect,  his  foot,  leg,  and  entire  body  as  far  as  my  eye  could  reach  were  covered  by  a  lovely  fur,  bristly  yet  lus-  trous,  of  an  elusive  color  I  can  only  call     reddish-blue,  with  decklings  of  white  in  the  underparts.  Such  are  the  soft  sur-  prises  with  which  reality  pads  the  skel-  eton  of  hard  facts.  &quot;How  curious  it  is,&quot;  the  Baluchithe-  rium  said,  &quot;that  you  primates  should  blunder  upon  my  five-foot  skull  with-  out  deducing  my  hundred-kilogram  brain.  True,  our  technology,  foreseeing  the  horrors  of  industrialism,  abjured  the  cruel  minerals  and  concerned  it-  self  purely  with  vegetable  artifacts  and  these  solely  for  our  amusement  and  comfort.&quot;  He  benignly  indicated  the  immense  chaise  longue,  carved  from  a  single  ginkgo  trunk,  that  he  re-  posed  upon;  the  rug  beside  it,  artfully  braided  of  wisteria  vines;  the  hardwood  sculptures  about  him,  most  of  them  glorifying,  more  or  less  abstractly,  the  form  of  the  female  Baluchitherium.  &quot;All,  of  course,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;by  your  time  sense,  fallen  into  dust  aeons  ago.&quot;  By  now,  I  had  adjusted  my  tape  recorder  to  the  immense  volume  and  curious  woofing  timbre  of  his  voice,  so  his  remaining  statements  are  not  at  the  mercy  of  my  memory.  His  ac-  cent,  I  should  say,  was  Oxonian,  though  his  specialized  upper  lip  and  modified  incisors  played  havoc  with  some  of  our  labials  and  fricatives,  and  he  quaintly  pronounced  all  silent  consonants  and  even  the  terminal  &quot;e&quot;  of  words,  To  my  natural  query  as  to  his  own  time  sense,  he  replied,  with  a  blithe  wave,  &quot;If  you  are  able  from  a  few  crusty  chips  of  calcium  to  posit  an  entire  phylum  of  creature,  why  should  not  I,  with  a  brain  so  much  greater,  be  able,  by  a  glance  at  my  surroundings,  to  reconstruct,  as  it  were,  the  future?  The  formation  of  your  pelvis,  the  manner  of  your  speech,  even  the  moment  of  your  visit  are  trans-  parent  in  the  anatomy  of  your  single  scuttling  insectivore.&quot;  He  indicated-  what  my  lower  perspective  would  have  missed-a  tiny  gray  plesiadipid  miser-  ably  cowering  high  in  one  of  the  cycads.     39  The  Baluchitherium  brandished  the  printed  sheet  in  his  hand;  it  rattled  like  thunder.  &quot;In  here,  for  instance,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;one  may  read  of  numerous  future  events-the  mammoth's  epic  circumambulation  of  the  globe,the  drastic  shrinkage  of  the  Tethys  Sea,  the  impudent  and  hapless  attempt  of  thebird  kingdom,  in  the  person  of  the  running  giant  Diatryma,  to  forsake  the  air  and  compete  on  land.  Hah!  One  may  even  find&quot;  -he  turned  the  sheet,  to  what  seemed  to  be  its  lesser  side-  &quot;news  of  Homo  sapiens.  I  see  here,  for  example,  that  your  wheat-growing  cul-  tures  will  make  war  upon  your  rice-  growers,  having  earlier  destroyed  the  maize-growers.  And  one  also  finds,&quot;  he  continued,  &quot;horoscopes  and  comic  strips  and  lively  correspondent  discussions  as  to  whether  God  is,  asI  firmly  believe,  odd-toed  or,as  the  artiodactyls  vainly  hold,  even-toed.&quot;  &quot;But,&quot;  I  said,  stammering  slightly  in  my  anxiety  to  utter  this,  the  crucial  question,  &quot;given,  then,  such  a  height  of  prescience  and  civilized  feeling,  why  did  you  make  the  evolutionary  error-  the  gross,  if  I  may  so  put  it,  miscalcula-  tion-of  brute  size?  That  is,  with  the  catastrophic  example  of  the  dinosaurs  still  echoing  down  the  silted  corridors  of  geologic  time-&quot;  Imperiously  he  cut  me  short.  &quot;'The  past,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;is  bunk.  The  future&quot;-  and  he  trumpeted-&quot;is  our  element.&quot;  &quot;But,&quot;  I  protested,  &quot;the  very  grasses  under  my  feet  spell  doom  for  large  leaf-  browsers,  presaging  an  epoch  of  mobile  plains-grazers.&quot;  As  if  to  illustrate  my  point,  a  rabbit  darted  from  the  under-  brush,  chased  by  a  dainty  eohippus.  &quot;As  you  must  know,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;the  artio-  dactyls,  in  the  form  of  swine,  camels,  deer,  cattle,  sheep,  goats,  and  hippo-  potami,  will  flourish,  whereas  the  perissodactyls,  dwindled  to  a  few  tapirs  and  myopic  rhinoceri  in  my  own  era,  will  meet  extinct-&quot;  &quot;Size,&quot;  he  bellowed,  pronouncing  it  &quot;siz-eh,&quot;  &quot;is  not  a  matter  of  choice  but  of  destiny.  Largeness  was  thrust  upon  us.  We  bear  it-bore  it,  bear  it,  will  bear  it-as  our  share  ofthe  universal  heaviness.  We  bear  it  gratefully,  and  gratefully  will  restore  it  to  the  heavi-  ness  of  the  Earth.&quot;  And  he  fixed  me  with  a  squint  so  rhinoceroid  I  involun-  tarily  backed  a  step,  tripping  the  com-  puter's  reverse  mechanism.  All  my  nerves  began  humming.  The  Baluchi-  therium,  as  he  faded,  stretched  himself  toward  the  leaf-clouded  sky;  the  red-  dish-blue  fur  on  his  throat  shimmered  white.  Ravenously  he  resumed  what  I  saw  to  be,  under  one  form  or  another,  an  endless,  unthinkable  meal.  "