"PHILIP  AND  ANNA  FTER  the  first  onslaught  of  Mrs.  Talbot's  welcome,  Philip  said  he  would  wait  in  the  car:  his  wife  was  better  at  looking  over  houses  than  he.  So  Philip  sat  outside  the  house  called  Perivale  and  placarded  &quot;To  Let,&quot;  and  Anna  followed  Mrs.  Talbot  from  room  to  room,  resigning  herself  to  the  thought  that  the  rent  was  with-  in  their  means  and  reflecting  that  the  house  might  probably  be  more  tolerable  when  Mrs.  Talbot's  furniture  and  Mrs.  Talbot  were  out  of  it.  After  the  house  came  the  bewintered  garden.  &quot;A  mass  of  color,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Talbot,  indicating  a  bed  containing  rosebushes,  to  which  a  few  leaves  still  clung,  rattling  in  the  east  wind.  &quot;A  positive  mass  of  color,  All  these  won-  derful  new  shades.  And  so  hardy,  so  willing!  When  people  talk  to  me  about  nuclear  warfare  and  battery  hens  and  landing  on  the  moon,  I  say  to  them,  'But  one  can't  condemn  every  new  de-  velopment.  Think  of  the  new  roses!  Going  on  through  the  autumn,  too-I  think  one  appreciates  color  more  in  au-  tumn.  Week  after  week-a  positive  blaze-you  should  see  them!  But  you  will.&quot;  Six  months  later,  Anna  was  doing  so.  Venders  expatiate.  The  spirit  of  the  bazaar  inflames  them;  they  praise  their  wares  as  if  all  their  future  happiness  hung  on  getting  rid  of  them.  But  when  the  roses  opened  fire,  Mrs.  Talbot  proved  to  have  been  the  soul  of  truth.  Every  day  they  bloomed  more  vehe-  mently;  their  scarlets,  crimsons,  or-  anges,  salmon  pinks  more  brilliant,  their  parti-colored  petals  more  emphatically  slashed,  their  livid  mauves  more  insist,  ently  pathological.  Strumpets,  thought  Anna,  nothing  but  strumpets.  But  that  honest  old  word  was  too  good  for  them.  She  rescinded  it  and  sought  for  something  more  vernacular.  For  a  cler-  gyman's  wife  her  repertory  of  current  abuse  was  deplorably  meagre.  &quot;Tarts,&quot;  she  said  inadequately.  Perhaps  it  was  a  mercy  that  their  scent  did  not  correspond  with  their  hues.  They  were  all  totally  scentless.  The  garden  of  Perivale  had  been  de-  scribed  by  Mrs.  Talbot  as  a  sun  trap.  It  was  a  small  rectangular  trap.  It  had  high  wooden  palings  round  it,  in  per-  fect  repair.  It  sloped  uphill.  The  rose  bed  dominated  its  upper  slope,  the  rest  was  lawn  and  rockworks.  Unless  one  inserted  oneself  in  the  tool  shed  be-  tween  the  mowing  machine  and  some  unaccountable  old  rhubarb  pots,  it  was  impossible  to  be  in  the  garden  without  a  total  submission  to  the  roses.  It  was  fortunate  that  there  was  so  much  to  do  in  the  house.  It  was  small,  yet  managed  to  be  gaunt,  for  its  late-  Victorian  proportions  ran  to  height.  Its  stairs  were  steep,  its  kitchen  echoing.  Its  woodwork  was  dominated  by  cusps  and  ogees.  It  had  a  pursuing  resemblance  to  the  parsonages  which  would  never  more  be  theirs,  At  intervals  Philip  would  fear  that  she  found  it  tiring  to  spend  so  much  time  on  the  stepladder.  When  she  assured  him  that  she  liked  the  house  very  much  and  was  full  of  plans  for  improving  it,  he  politely  looked  credulous  and  turned  back  to  the  satis-  faction  of  having  enough  room  for  all  the  bookshelves  he  wanted.  The  book-  shelves  were  post-Talbot;  some  had  come  on  with  the  books,  others  Philip  had  put  up  himself.  Surrounded  with  bookshelves,  which  even  had  gaps  for  more  books  to  come  and  occupy,  he  sat  at  his  writing  table  with  his  back  to  the  window.  Defeatedly  reiterating  &quot;Tarts,&quot;  Anna  wrenched  herself  from  the  ob-  jects  of  her  abhorrence  and  walked  slowly  down  the  sun  trap,  studying  her  husband's  back.  It  wore  acoat  of  cleri-  cal  grey,  a  coat  which  still  had  a  great  deal  of  wear  left  in  it.  His  hair  was  a  less  definite  shade  of  grey.  When  the  time  came  to  buy  a  new  suit,  the  new  suit  might  be  drab  but  would  proba-  bly  be  grey,  too.  Philip  would  never  be  a  mass  of  color.  Yet  within  the  last  twelvemonth  she  had  seen  him  positive-  ly  blazing,  morally  apparelled  in  purple  and  scarlet,  a  scarlet  man.  How  long  it  had  been  brewing  she  would  never  know;  but  on  the  eve  of  All  Saints'  Day  he  told  her  he  was  going  to  see  the  Bishop.  With  the  idiocy  which  dis-     29  tinguished  her  intercourse  with  him  she  inquired,  &quot;Does  he  want  tosee  you?&quot;  Surely  it  could  not  be  a  question  of  preferment?  Philip  was  not  the  sort  of  parson  who  is  preferred.  &quot;*As  to  that,  my  dear,  I  cannot  say.&quot;  He  gave  a  brief  cackle  of  laughter  and  drove  the  spoon  into  the  base  of  his  boiled  egg.  &quot;Will  you  be  home  to  lunch?&quot;  &quot;I  expect  so,  I  expect  so.  I  see  no  reason  why  not.  He  has  read  my  letter  with  regret.  Five  minutes  should  be  quite  long  enough  for  him  to  repeat  his  sentiments  but  his  dignity  may  demand  fiftcen.&quot;  &quot;What  has  upset  him?&quot;  &quot;Die  Wahrheit,  Anna,  IV  ahrheit.&quot;  &quot;I  see.&quot;  &quot;And  what  do  you  see,  my  dear?&quot;  die  mnLUPr  &quot;Well-he's  no-  Sarastro.  Truth  would  upset  him,  I  suppose.&quot;  Something,  something  unforeseen  and  probably  uncomfortable,  was  im-  pending.  So  she  played  for  time.  &quot;It  may  upset  you,  too,  I'm  afraid.  I  told  the  man  that  if  I  am  to  remain  a  Christian-if,  mark  you,  for  it  is  con-  jectural-I  must  resign  from  the  priesthood.  For  I  cannot  and  will  not  go  on  paying  lip  service  to  what  I  don't  believe  in  and  don't  approve  of.  More  coffee,  please.&quot;  She  filled  his  cup,  but  he  did  not  drink  it.  It  was  his  variety  of  playing  for  time.  He  folded  his  table  napkin  and  got  up.  &quot;You  won't  want  the  car,  Anna?&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  no.&quot;  &quot;I  could  perfectly  well  bicycle.  We  may  have  to  adapt  our  ideas  to  bi-  cycles.&quot;  Philip  in  love  had  been  as  surprising  as  this.  She  felt  a  kind  of  awed  giggle  rise  up  in  her  as  she  watched  the  car  turn  the  corner.  Now,  as  in  thosedays,  she  longed  for  him  to  reappear:  daz-  zling,  incalculable,  incontrovertible.  They  would  go  out  on  bicycles,  she  thought,  freewheel  down  hills,  silent  as  moths.  She  freewheeled  through  the  morn-  ing,  making  the  most  of  this  sensation  of  airborne,  astonished  youth.  For  it  would  not  last,  The  question  of  lunch  rushed  at  her  like  a  good  watchdog,  and  a  remembrance  of  socks,  and  of  Bartle  and  Philemon,  their  sons,  both  married  and  settled  and  regrettably  taking  after  her  in  their  inability  to  rouse  surprise  in  any  bosom.  Someone  would  have  to  tell  them;  in  all  proba-  bility,  it  would  be  she.  Two  letters,  both  of  them  read  with  regret.  Oh,  what  was  Philip  saying  to  the  Bishop?  And  why  was  he  so  late?  If  he  were  killed  on  the  road,  swept  off  in  his     " b"30  fiery  chariot  of  unexpectedness,  there  would  be  a  symmetry  about  it-and  the  Bishop  would  see  the  hand  of  God  wielding  a  fire  extinguisher.  Damn  the  Bishop,  keeping  Philip  for  so  long!  &quot;Oh,  here  you  are!  I  was  getting  quite  anxious.  What  did  he-&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  what  he  had  the  effrontery  to  suggest?  All  this  time,  he  has  been  asking  me  to  reconsider,  to  stay  on  till  he  can  get  another  man  to  put  in.  Plasterer!  Timeserver!  Face-  saver!  He  would  be  so  infinitely  obliged  to  me.  Of  course,  he  would  never  dream  of  standing  between  a  man  and  his  conscience,  but  he  would  be  so  infinitely  obliged.  And  it  would  be  so  much  less  painful  to  the  parish.  Whoso  offendeth  one  of  these  little  ones,  you  know.  And  then  a  tee-hee.&quot;  &quot;Fiddlesticks!&quot;  she  interjected.  &quot;It  would  be  Christmas  pudding  to  them.&quot;  &quot;Exactly.  I  told  him  so,  though  less  poetically.  More  tee-heeing.  I  also  told  him  ...&quot;  &quot;Goodness!&quot;  she  said  at  the  close  of  the  recital.  &quot;And  finally  I  told  him  we  would  be  out  in  a  week.  Can  we  be  out  in  a  week?&quot;  HEY  were  out  in  a  week,  and  in  lodgings  for  six  weeks;  and  then  they  were  i  n  Perivale  and  Mrs.  Talbot  was  in  4d616c7461.  And  there  was  Philip  with  his  grey  bac  k  to  the  wind  ow,  writing  a  horror     story  about  the  Three  Choirs  Festival.  He  had  written  several  horror  stories;  they  were  all  ecclesiastical,  all  popular,  and  reviewers  said,  &quot;John  Emu  again  breaks  new  ground.&quot;  Or  he  might  be  engaged  in  being  a  godsend  to  Dripworth.  A  clergyman  ofthe  Church  of  England  is  trained  to  industry,  efficiency,  and  adaptable  use-  fulness.  A  clergyman  of  the  Church  of  England  who  has  losthis  faith  need  never  be  reproached  with  an  idle  hour,  provided  he  settlesin  the  South  of  Eng-  land  and  an  expanding  neighborhood.  Dripworth's  philanthropic  factotum  had  been  stricken  with  a  palsy  a  couple  of  months  before  Philip  and  Anna  moved  into  Perivale,  and  even  before  the  move  Mrs.  Talbot  had  spread  the  news  that  Philip  was  exactly  what  Dripworth  needed.  Before  there  was  a  leaf  on  the  roses,  Philip  was  being  an  answer  to  every  need.  Established  inhabitants  defending  the  charms  of  old  Dripworth,  the  horsepond  and  the  vast  inn  sign  of  the  Devil  and  Tongs,  which  hung  across  Fore  Street  and  made  it  impos-  sible  for  two-decker  buses  to  pass  be-  neath-more  recent  inhabitants  who  wanted  a  swimming  pool  and  playing  fields  impartially  enlisted  him  as  Ap-  peals  Secretary.  He  kept  the  accounts  for  the  Beekeepers  Association,  the  Moral  Welfare  League,  the  Boating  Club,  the  Skittles  Club;  he  was  secre-  tary  to  the  Cemetery  Trust,  the  Noise  Abatement  Society,  and  the  Dripworth  JULY  31,  1971  and  District  Operatic  Group.  He  was  respected  by  all,  and  collected  useful  material  for  his  next  story,  &quot;Pelican's  Piety.&quot;  On  Sundays  he  mowed  the  lawn  and  tended  the  roses-weeding  their  bed,  trimming  its  edges,  and  spraying  them  against  aphids  and  black  spot  as  though  they  were  parish,  ioners,  Never  had  a  man  lost  his  faith  with  less  nostalgia  and  inconvenience.  But  a  man's  faith,  thought  Anna,  is  compact.  You  have  it,  you  have  it  not.  Rather  like  a  hat.  But  spiritual.  Her  loss-her  losses,  rather-was  like  a  ragbag.  An  understanding  butch-  er;  a  potting  shed;  a  drying  yard;  a  window  seat;  and  a  Souvenir  de  Mal-  maison,  a  Z\xc3\xa9phyrine  Drouhin,  and  a  nameless  lemon-scented,  white  cluster  rose  rescued  from  a  rubbish  dump.  And  she  felt  considerable  inconvenience,  and  a  piercing  nostalgia  for  their  material-  ity.  There  was  also  one  nonmaterial  loss:  an  illusion,  a  silly,  quite  recent  il-  lusion  and  not  at  all  creditable  to  a  woman  of  her  age.  A  distant  dazzling  Philip,  bicycling  beside  her,  bicycling  at  dusk  through  smells  of  meadowsweet  and  hemp  agrimony;  a  recent  furious  and  glorious  Philip,  blazing  with  recti-  tude,  his  garments  dyed  with  the  blood  of  bishops,  helping  her  pack  books  and  chinaware.  But  this  was  in  a  different  county  and  eight  months  ago.  A  month  more  would  make  it  a  baby.  Four  months  more,  and  those  roses  would  still  be  at  it.  She  hurried  herself  into  the  house  and  into  the  echoing  kitchen.  There  were  the  pork  chops,  still  glacial  from  the  butcher's  freeze;  demand  as  she  might,  the  man  would  never  take  things  out  beforehand.  Bound,  there-  fore,to  be  tough.  She  got  the  mallet  and  began  to  thump.  &quot;Frappezr,  frappez,  ma  belle.  Frappez,  frapper  toujours  ...&quot;  Hearing  the  thumps  and  the  harsh,  true  voice,  Philip  winced.  He  had  never  expected  that  Anna  would  take  it  so  badly,  this  decline  into  the  laity.  She  had  shown  no  aptitude  for  the  lot  of  a  clergyman's  wife,  drifting  out  of  her  obligations,  ostentatiously  reading  the  Thirty-Nine  Articles  during  his  ser-  mons.  On  the  rare  occasions  when  she  came  to  Communion,  he  half  expected  to  see  her  turn  away  her  head  from  the  proffered  wafer,  saying  politely,  &quot;No  thank  you.&quot;  The  winter  might  settle  her  in;  he  had  noticed  that  shortening  days  are  reconciling.  Meanwhile,  he  had  got  to  enrage  the  Vicars  Choral  and  get  two  rats  into  the  double  bass  with  some  acknowledgment  of  proba-  bility.  She  was  now  frying  onions.  &quot;We  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  know  each  other  by  our  works,&quot;  he  said  to  himself.  &quot;Identification  by  grace  is  a  thing  of  the  past.&quot;  HE  weather  grew  increasingly  hot,  the  sun  trap  increasingly  re-  tentive.  The  rose  bed  had  to  be  watered  three  times  a  week.  Anna  was  again  on  the  stepladder-alleging  that  it  was  cooler  up  there.  She  had  decided  to  re-  decorate  the  bathroom,  giving  it  a  green  ceiling.  A  green  ceiling,  the  color  of  an  ivy  leaf,  would  mitigate  its  Gothic  height.  The  bathroom  window  looked  out  on  some  neighboring  conifers,  a  form  ofvegetation  which  makes  no  at-  tempt  to  be  arresting.  If  ever  again  she  had  a  garden  of  her  own  (she  repu-  diated  all  ownership  of  the  sun  trap)  she  would  fill  it  with  conifers.  At  in-  tervals  she  had  to  descend  the  steplad-  der  and  move  it  farther  along  to  get  at  a  fresh  area  of  ceiling.  To  get  at  the  portion  of  ceiling  above  the  bath  it  be-  came  necessary  to  plant  the  steplad-  der's  forelegs  in  the  bath  itself-which  caused  a  wobble.  The  wobble  was  so  far  below  her  and  she  so  much  en-  gaged  in  holding  the  brush  at  the  cor-  rect  angle  that  she  thought  little  of  it.  But  the  bath  acted  as  a  sounding  board;  the  wobble  was  reverberated  through  the  house  and  impressed  itself  upon  the  yearly  financial  statement  of  the  Cemetery  Trust.  Philip  went  to  see  what  was  happening.  &quot;How  well  you  are  getting  on,  An-  na.  I  do  congratulate  you.  There's  a  little  streak  just  to  your  left-&quot;  She  leaned  sideways  to  deal  with  the  little  streak.  'The  stepladder  adjusted  to  this  by  shuffling  in  the  opposite  di-  rection.  &quot;'Take  the  paintpot!&quot;  she  screamed,  and  appeared  to  throw  it  at  him.  With  dreadful  slowness,  the  step-  ladder  deposited  Anna  in  the  bath  and  fell  on  top  of  her.  Philip,  who  had  caught  the  paintpot,  placed  it  carefully  on  the  windowsill  and  raised  the  lad-  der.  Anna  scrambled  out.  Relieved  to  findthat  she  was  able  to  scramble,  Philip  asked  why  the  hell  she  hadn't  called  him  to  hold  the  ladder,  and  why  he  was  treated  like  a  nonentity  in  his  own  house.  Anna  stooped  to  pick  up  the  bottle  of  turpentine,  and  said  &quot;Ow!&quot;  in  a  tone  of  surprise.  She  shook  herself  experi-  mentally,  and  said  &quot;Ow!&quot;  again.  &quot;Bed  for  you,&quot;  said  Philip  sombrely.  The  doctor  came.  It  was  his  first  visit,  and  nothing  could  disabuse  him  of  the  ideathat  Philip's  surname  was  Merivale.  Mrs.  Merivale  had  torn  her  left  trapezoid,  wrenched  her  knee,  and  possibly  cracked  a  rib.  Sedatives,  pain-  killers,  bed.  &quot;Unique  chance  to  look  at  the  telly,&quot;  said  he;  and  went  away    thinking  they  were  a  skinny  pair,  and  their  furniture  very  shabby.  But  good  teeth.  Philip  had  no  conscience  about  tins,  so  housekeeping  was  easy  for  him.  An-  na  subsided  from  resignation  into  en-  joyment-the  indulgent  enjoyment  one  dedicates  to  what  one  knows  won't  last.  Philip,  happy  with  trays  and  tins;  her-  self,  virtuously  doing  as  she  was  bid,  reposing  on  extra  pillows  and  remem-  bering  to  take  a  painkiller  at  regular  intervals:  what  a  pleasant  couple  they  made!  She  thought  of  them  as  the  Merivales,  the  happy  harmless  Meri-  vales.  [REDACTED]  people,  nothing  in  particu-  lar,  but  nice:  soothing,  sensible,  idylli-  cally  dull;  undemanding  yet  fulfilling;  not  passion's  slaves.  Sedated  Merivales.  Dated,  too,  alas!  But  while  they  stayed,  a  pair  to  be  reposed  on,  believed  in,  even.  Here  came  Philip  with  another  tray.  Lunch?Tea?  She  could  not  quite  remember.  &quot;I've  brought  you  some  roses.&quot;  She  opened  her  eyes  on  that  positive  blaze  of  color.  &quot;Where  would  you  like  them?&quot;  &quot;Oh  Philip,  how  kind  of  you.  Any-  where,  really.  Yes,  that  will  do  very  well.  They'll  be  out  of  the  sun.&quot;  They  glowed  like  the  fires  of  Hell.  A  petal  fell,  orange  and  vermillion.  It  was  surprising  that  it  should  fall  silently;  one  would  expect  it  to  fall  with  a  clang.  But  it  fell  silently.  She  recog-  " b"  nized  that  the  satire,  the  mockery,  the  derision  with  which  she  had  assailed  the  roses  had  masked  a  plain  positive  hatred.  As  human  beings  hate  human  beings,  she  had  hated  them.  &quot;My  dear  Anna,  why  are  y  ou  cry-  ing?  Is  it  your  rib?&quot;  She  shook  her  head.  &quot;Is  anything  worrying  you?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98tN  O,\xe2\x80\x99  ,  Sh  e  we  n  t  on  crying.  Philip  st  a  re  d  d  e  c  e  n  t  l  y  o  u  t  o  f  t  he  wi  ndow.  He  was  al  le  rg  ic  to  th  e  s  mell  o  f  tears-w  hi  c  h  had  b  e  e  n  i  n  h  i  b  i  t  i  n  g  whe  n  it  was  h  i  s  d  u  t  y  to  c  o  m  f  o  r  t  th  e  af  fl  i  ct  ed  .  W  hen  h  e  loo  ke  d  ro  un  d,  Ann  a  w  as  mopping  h  e  r  ey  es  .  &quot;I  '  m  s  or  r  y  to  h  a  v  e  b  e  e  n  a  n  i  d  i  o  t  .  I  thin  k  it  's  th  es  e  pills  o  f  his  .  I  sh  a  n'  t  take  an  y  m  or  e.  &quot;  &quot;  It  was  n'  t  to  d  o  w  i  t  h  th  e  r  os  e  s?  &quot;  &quot;  No  ,  no,  n  o  t  t  he  ros  es.  T  h  o  u  g  h  it's  sa  d,  i  sn  '  t  it  ,  wh  en  you  co  me  to  t  h  i  n  k  o  f  it  -  -t  he  trou  bl  e  peo  ple  h  a  v  e  take  n  to  mak  e  th  em  so  br  ig  h  t  and  bedizened,  and  th  e  r  o  s  e  s  l  end  ing  th  e  ms  e  lves  t  o  i  t  s  o  o  bligingly-and  o  n  l  y  t  o  b  e  d  i  s  l  iked  .  A  nd  f  or  no  fau  lt  o  f  their  own,  p  o  o  r  thin  gs!&quot;  &quot;  No  doubt  some  people  like  t  he  m  v  e  r  y  m  uc  h.  Y  o  u  are  bei  ng  ant  hr  opo  -  morphic.  I  s  ha  l  l  g  et  y  ou  some  tea.  &quot;  What  a  n  e  a  r  th  in  g  ,  she  thoug  ht.  Fo  r  it  h  a  d  b  e  e  n  o  n  t  he  t  i  p  o  f  he  r  ton  gue  t  o  re  s  ort  to  a  lie,  saying  t  ha  t  s  he  was  g  ri  e  ving  fo  r  t  he  r  o  s  e  s  lef  t  behi  nd  at  St  o  ke  Ea  s  te  r.  Which  would  h  a  v  e  sounded  like  a  reproach.  It  was  a  sad  end  to  the  Merivales-  though  Philip  brought  up  two  cups  and  stayed  on  to  read  from  &quot;The  Voy-  age  of  the  Beagle.&quot;  Next  day,  the  Merivales  were  officially  dismissed.  Dr.  Hopkins  pronounced  her  fit  to  get  up.  But  he  would  like  an  X-ray  of  that  rib;  he  would  make  an  appoint-  ment  with  the  radiologist  for  Thursday  afternoon,  and  arrange  for  a  Hos-  pital  Service  car  to  fetch  and  return  her.  &quot;If  it  isn't  a  Mrs.  Talbot,  it  will  be  just  such  another,&quot;  Anna  said  to  Philip.  Philip  said  probably;  they  abounded.  This  variant  was  a  Mrs.  Nealson,  who  praised  Philip,  saying  he  was  such  a  live  wire.  Anna  was  feeling  the  ap-  prehensions  usual  to  those  who  go  for  an  X-ray.  On  the  drive  back,  she  felt  the  additional  apprehension  that  those  who  undertake  Hospital  Service  expect-since  they  can't  be  tipped-  to  be  offered  tea.  The  offer  was  re-  jected.  Mrs.  Nealson  had  to  hurry  on  in  order  to  pick  up  Miss  Hankey,  ar-  thritic  but  quite  invaluable,  for  a  com-  mittee  meeting.  But  perhaps  another  day?  ~  &quot;Yes,  yes,  it  would  be  delightful,&quot;  said  Anna,  overdoing  it,  for  she  had  a  violent  headache.  For  a  long  time  now  she  had  stopped  automatically  outside  Perivale's  gate,  and  knew  so  well  what  she  would  find  beyond  it  that  she  did  not  look  about  her.  The  left-hand  path  led  to  the  back  door,  and  she  habitually  took  it,  since  the  right-hand  path  led  into  the  sun  trap.  But  today,  as  though  pro-  pelled  by  Mrs.  Nealson's  resemblance  to  Mrs.  Talbot,  she  took  the  right-  hand  path.  And  there  was  Philip,  carry-  ing  a  fork  and  a  pair  of  garden  gaunt-  lets  into  the  tool  shed.  Why  a  fork?  Could  there  be  a  weed  in  this  gar-  den  so  unrestrained  as  to  necessitate  a  fork?  Her  eye  was  caught  by  what  seemed  to  be  the  aftermath  of  a  very  gaudy  funeral.  It  was  the  roses.  They       had  been  dug  up,  they  lay  heaped  and  sprawling  on  the  grass.  She  was  staring  in  amazement  at  this  scene  of  massacre,  at  the  roots  clawing  the  air,  the  broken  limbs,  the  leaves  already  wilting,  the  flowers  (so  hardy,  so  will-  ing)  defiantly  blooming  on,  when  she  heard  the  tool-shed  door  being  closed.  That  fork-  &quot;Philip,  Philip!  you  do  this?&quot;  &quot;You  seem  surprised,  Anna.  You  even  look  taken  aback.  Yes,  I  did  it.  ...  I  thought  it  better,&quot;  he  added  after  a  pause.  &quot;You  dug  them  up-  just  like  that?&quot;  &quot;I  forked  them  up.  I  hope  you  are  not  going  to  regret  them.  You  disliked  them.  You  could  only  regret  them  from  the  vul-  garest  motives.&quot;  It  was  exactly  how  she  had  been  re-  gretting  them-with  a  sense  of  waste  and  guilty  compunction.  She  looked  from  the  roses  to  Philip,  from  Philip  to  the  roses.  You  have  a  very  violent  character,&quot;  she  said  humbly.  He  accepted  the  tribute  with  one  of  his  brief  cackles  of  laughter-mirthless,  and  more  like  the  cry  of  some  rare,  ungainly  seabird. "