 PERPETUA  L.  OW  Perpetua  was  living  alone.  She  had  told  her  husband  that  she  didn't  want  to  live  with  him  any  longer.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  he  had  asked.  &quot;For  all  the  reasons  you  know,&quot;  she  said.  Harold's  farewell  gift  was  a  Blue  Cross-Blue  Shield  insurance  policy,  paid  up  for  one  year.  Now  Perpetua  was  putting  valve  oil  on  her  trumpet.  One  of  the  valves  was  sticking.  She  was  fourth-chair  trumpet  with  the  New  World  Symphony  Orchestra.  Perpetua  thought:  That  time  he  banged  the  car  door  on  my  finger.  I  am  sure  it  was  deliberate.  That  time  he  locked  me  out  while  I  was  pregnant  and  I  had  to  walk  four  miles  after  mid-  night  to  my  father's  house.  One  does  not  forget.  Perpetua  smiled  at  the  new  life  she  saw  spread  out  before  her  like  a  red  velvet  map.  Back  in  the  former  house,  Harold  watched  television.  Perpetua  remembered  the  year  she  was  five.  She  had  to  learn  to  be  nice,  all  in  one  year.  She  only  learned  part  of  it.  She  was  not  fully  nice  until  she  was  seven.  Now  I  must  obtain  a  lover,  she  thought.  Perhaps  more  than  one.  One  for  Monday,  one  for  Tuesday,  one  for  Wednesday  ...  2.  HAROLD  was  looking  at  a  picture  of  the  back  of  a  naked  girl,  in  a  magazine  for  men.  The  girl  was  pull-  ing  a  dress  over  her  head,  in  the  pic-  ture.  This  girl  has  a  nice-looking  back,  Harold  thought.  I  wonder  where  she  lives?  Perpetua  sat  on  the  couch  in  her  new  apartment  smoking  dope  with  a  hand-  some  bassoon  player.  A  few  cats  walked  around.  &quot;Our  art  contributes  nothing  to  the  revolution,&quot;  the  bassoon  player  said.  &quot;We  cosmeticize  reality.&quot;  &quot;We  are  trustees  of  Form,&quot;  Per-  petua  said.  &quot;It  is  hard  to  make  the  revolution  with  a  bassoon,&quot;  the  bassoon  player  said.  &quot;Sabotage?&quot;  Perpetua  suggested.  &quot;Sabotage  would  get  me  fired,&quot;  her  companion  replied.  &quot;&quot;The  sabotage  would  be  confused  with  ineptness  any-  way.&quot;  I  am  tired  of  talking  about  the  revo-  lution,  Perpetua  thought.  &quot;Go  away,&quot;  she  said.  The  bassoon  player  put  on  his  black  raincoat  and  left.  It  is  wonderful  to  be  able  to  tell  them  to  go  away,  she  reflected.  Then  she  said  aloud,  &quot;Go  away.  Go  away.  Go  away.&quot;  Harold  went  to  visit  his  child,  Peter.  Peter  was  at  school  in  New  England.  &quot;How  do  you  like  school?&quot;  Harold  asked  Peter.  &quot;It's  O.K.,&quot;  Peter  said.  &quot;Do  you  have  a  light?&quot;  Harold  and  Peter  watched  the  game  together.  Peter's  school  won.  After  the  game,  Harold  went  home.  3.  PERPETUA  dreamed  that  she  was  a  saint,  a  hermit,  in  the  desert.  In  the  dream  she  was  constructing  a  soup.  She  used  weeds,  water,  a  ham  bone  given  her  by  a  pilgrim.  The  ham  bone  exhib-  ited  traces  of  having  been  gone  over  by  a  dog.  There  were  palpable  teeth  marks  on  it.  Perpetua  thought:  I  wish  I  had  some  salt  for  this  soup.  She  went  to  her  mother's  house  for  Christmas.  Her  mother  was  cooking  the  eighty-seventh  turkey  of  her  life.  &quot;God  damn  this  turkey!&quot;  Perpetua's  mother  shouted.  &quot;If  anyone  knew  how  I  hate,  loathe,  and  despise  turkeys.  If  I  had  known  that  I  would  cook  cighty-  seven  separate  and  distinct  turkeys  in  my  life,  I  would  have  split  forty-four  years  ago.  I  would  have  been  long  gone  for  the  tall  timber.&quot;  Perpetua's  mother  showed  her  a  handsome  new  leather  coat.  &quot;Tanned  in  the  bile  of  matricides,&quot;  her  mother  said,  with  a  meaningful  look.  Harold  wrote  to  the  magazine  for  men  asking  for  the  name  and  address  of  the  girl  whose  back  had  bewitched  him.  The  magazine  answered  his  letter  say-  ing  that  it  could  not  reveal  this  infor-  mation.  The  magazine  was  not  a  pimp,  it  said.  Harold,  enraged,  wrote  to  the  maga-  zine  and  said  that  if  the  magazine  was  not  a  pimp,  what  was  it?  The  maga-  zine  answered  that  while  it  could  not  in  all  conscience  give  Harold  the  girl's  address,  it  would  beglad  to  give  him  her  grid  coordinates.  Harold,  who  had  had  map  reading  in  the  Army,  was  de-  lighted.  4.  PERPETUA  sat  in  the  trumpet  section  of  the  New  World  Symphony  Or-  chestra.  She  had  a  good  view  of  the  other  players  because  the  sections  were  on  risers  and  the  trumpet  section  sat  on  JUNE  12,  19  7  1  the  highest  riser  of  all.  They  were  playing  Brahms.  A  percussionist  had  just  split  a  head  on  the  bass  drum.  &quot;I  luff  Brahms,&quot;  he  explained.  Perpetua  thought:  I  wish  this  so-  called  conductor  would  get  his  movie  together.  After  the  concert  she  took  off  her  orchestra  uniform  and  put  on  her  suede  jeans,  her  shirt  made  of  a  lot  of  colored  scarves  sewn  together,  her  carved-wood  neck  bracelet,  and  her  D'Artagnan  cape  with  its  silver  lining.  Perpetua  could  not  remember  what  was  this  year  and  what  was  last  year.  Had  something  just  happened,  or  had  it  happened  a  long  time  ago?  She  met  many  new  people.  &quot;You  are  different,&quot;  Perpetua  said  to  Sunny  Marge.  &quot;Very  few  of  the  girls  I  know  wear  a  tattoo  of  the  head  of  Marshal  Foch  on  their  back.&quot;  &quot;I  am  different,&quot;  Sunny  Marge  agreed.  &quot;Since  I  posed  for  that  picture  in  that  magazine  for  men,  many  people  havebeen  after  my  back.  My  back  has  become  practically  an  international  in-  cident.  So  I  decided  to  alter  it.&quot;  &quot;Will  it  come  off?  Ever?&quot;  &quot;I  hope  and  pray.&quot;  Perpetua  slept  with  Robert  in  his  loft.  His  children  were  sleeping  on  mat-  tresses  in  the  other  room.  It  was  cold.  Robert  said  that  when  he  was  a  child  he  was  accused  by  his  teacher  of  being  &quot;pert.&quot;  Pertness  was  attributed  to  him.  Perpetua  and  Robert  whispered  to  each  other,  on  themattress.  5.  PERPETUA  said,  &quot;I  am  alone.  I  have  thrown  my  husband  away.  I  re-  member  him.  Once  he  seemed  neces-  sary  to  me,  or  at  least  important,  or  at  least  interesting.  Now  none  of  these  things  is  true.  Now  he  is  as  strange  to  me  as  something  in  the  window  ofa  pet  shop.  I  gaze  into  the  pet-shop  window,  the  Irish  setters  move  about,  making  their  charming  moves,  I  see  the  moves  and  see  that  they  are  charming,  yet  I  am  not  charmed.  An  Irish  setter  is  what  I  do  not  need.  I  remember  my  husband  awaking  in  the  morning,  inserting  his  penis  in  his  penis  sheath,  placing  orna-  ments  of  bead  and  feather  on  his  upper  arms,  smearing  his  face  with  ochre  and  umber-broad  lines  under  the  eyes  and  across  the  brow.  I  remember  him  tak-  ing  his  blowpipe  from  the  umbrella  stand  and  leaving  forthe  office.  What  he  did  there  I  never  knew.  Slew  his  enemies,  he  said.  Our  dinner  table  was  decorated  with  the  heads  of  his  ene-  mies,  whom  he  had  slain.  It  was  hard  to  believe  one  man  could  have  so  many  enemies.  Or  maybe  they  were  the     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  same  enemies,  slain  over  and  over  and  over,  He  said  he  saw  girls  going  down  the  street  who  broke  his  heart,  in  their  loveliness.  I  no  longer  broke  his  heart,  he  said.  I  had  not  broken  his  heart  for  at  least  a  year,  perhaps  more  than  a  year,  with  my  loveliness.  Well  screw  that,  I  said,  screw  that.  My  oh  my,  he  said,  my  oh  my,what  a  mouth.  He  meant  that  I  was  foulmouthed.  This,  I  said,  is  just  the  beginning.&quot;  In  the  desert,  Harold's  Land-Rover  had  a  flat  tire.  Harold  got  out  of  the  Land-Rover  and  looked  at  his  map.  Could  this  be  the  wrong  map?  6.  ERPETUA  was  scrubbing  Sunny  Marge's  back  with  a  typewriter  Chasen  &quot;Oh.  Ouch.  Oh.  Ouch.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  making  much  progress,&quot;  Perpetua  said.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well  I  suppose  it  will  have  to  be  done  by  the  passage  of  time,&quot;  Sunny  Marge  said,  looking  at  her  back  in  the  mirror,  &quot;Years  are  bearing  us  to  Heaven,&quot;  Perpetua  agreed.  Perpetua  and  Sunny  Marge  went  cruising,  on  the  boulevard.  They  saw  a  man  coming  toward  them.  &quot;He's  awfully  clean-looking,&quot;  Per-  petua  said.  &quot;Probably  he's  from  out  of  town,&quot;  Sunny  Marge  said.  Edmund  was  a  small  farmer.  &quot;What  is  your  cash  crop?&quot;  Sunny  Marge  asked.  &quot;We  have  two  hundred  acres  in  hops,&quot;  the  farmer  replied.  &quot;That  re-  minds  me,  would  you  ladies  like  a  drink?&quot;  &quot;Dd  like  a  drink,&quot;  Perpetua  said.  &quot;I'd  like  a  drink  too,&quot;  Sunny  Marge  said.  &quot;Do  you  know  anywhere  he  can  go  in  those  clothes?&quot;  &quot;'Maybe  we'd  better  go  back  to  my  place,&quot;  Perpetua  said.  At  Perpetua's  apartment  Edmund  recounted  the  history  of  hops.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  see  something  interesting?&quot;  Sunny  Marge  asked  Ed-  mund.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;A  portrait  of  Marshal  Foch,  a  French  hero  of  World  War  I.&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  Edmund  said.  The  revolution  called  and  asked  Perpetua  if  she  would  tape  an  album  of  songs  of  the  revolution.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  Perpetua  said.  Harold  took  ship  for  home.  He  shared  a  cabin  with  a  man  whose  hob-  by  was  b  1945  period,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;Look  at  the  bullet  nicks.  The  bullet  nicks  are  done  by  applying  a  small  touch  of  gray  paint  with  a  burst  effect  of  flat  white.  For  small  holes  in  the  armor,  Ipierce  with  a  hot  nail.&quot;  The  floor  of  Harold's  cabin  was  cov-  ered  with  tanks  locked  in  duels  to  the  death.  Harold  hurried  to  the  ship's  bar.  I  wonder  how  Perpetua  is  doing,  he  thought.  I  wonder  if  she  is  happier  without  me.  Probably  she  is.  Probably  she  has  found  deep  contentment  by  now.  But  maybe  not.  7.  PERPETUA  met  many  new  people.  She  met  Henry,  who  was  a  cathe-  dral  builder.  He  built  cathedrals  in  places  where  there  were  no  cathe-  drals-T  wayne,  [REDACTED],  for  exam-  ple.  Every  American  city  needed  a  cathedral,  Henry  said.  The  role  of  the  cathedral  in  the  building  of  the  national  soul  was  well  known.  We  should  pun-  ish  ourselves  in  our  purses,  Henry  said,  to  shape  up  the  national  soul.  An  arch  never  sleeps,  Henry  said,  pointing  to  the  never-sleeping  arches  in  his  plans.  Architecture  is  memory,  Henry  said,  and  the  nation  that  had  no  cathedrals  to  speak  of  hadno  memory  to  speak  of  either.  He  did  it  all,  Henry  said,  with  a  30-man  crew  composed  of  1  superin-  tendent  1  masonry  foreman  1  ironwork  er  foreman  1  carpenter  foreman  1  pipe-  fitter  foreman  1  electrician  foreman  2  journeyman  masons  2  journeyman  ironworkers  2  journeyman  carpenters  2  journeyman  pipefitters  2  journey  man  electricians  1  mason's  helper  1  iron-  worker's  helper  1  carpenter's  helper  1  pipefitter's  helper  1  electrician's  helper  3  gargoyle  carvers  1  grimer  1  clerk-of-  the-works  1  master  fund-raiser  2  jour-  ney  man  fund-raisers  and  1  fund-raiser's  helper.  Cathedrals  are  mostly  a  matter  of  thrusts,  Henry  said.  You  got  to  bal-  ance  your  thrusts.  The  ribs  of  your  vaults  intersect  collectingthe  vertical  and  lateral  thrusts  at  fixed  points  which  are  then  buttressed  or  grounded  al-  though  that's  not  so  important  any-  more  when  you  usea  steel  skeleton  as  we  do  which  may  be  cheating  but  I  al-  ways  say  that  cheating  in  the  Lord's  name  is  O.K.  as  long  as  He  don't  catch  you  at  it.  Awe  and  grace,  Henry  said,  awe  and  grace,  that's  what  we're  selling  and  we  offer  a  Poet's  Corner  where  any  folks  who  were  poets  or  even  suspected  of  being  poets  can  be  bur-  ied,  just  like  Westminster  Abbey.  The  financing  is  the  problem,  Henry  said.  What  we  usually  do  is  pick  out  some  old  piece  of  ground  that  was  a  corn-  field  or  something  like  that,  and  put  it  in  the  Soil  Bank.  We  takethat  piece  of  ground  out  of  production  and  promise  the  government  we  won't  grow  no  more  corn  on  it  no  matter  how  they  " b"    beg  and  plead  with  us.  Well  the  gov-  ernment  sends  a  man  around  from  the  Agriculture  Department  and  he  agrees  with  us  that  there  certainly  ain't  no  corn  growing  there.  So  we  ask  him  about  how  much  he  thinks  we  can  get  from  the  Soil  Bank  and  he  says  it  looks  like  around  a  hundred  and  fifty  thou-  sand  a  year  to  him  but  that  he  will  have  to  check  with  the  home  office  and  we  can't  expect  the  money  before  around  the  middle  of  next  week.  We  tell  him  that  will  be  fine  and  we  all  go  have  a  drink  over  to  the  Holiday  Inn.  Of  course  the  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  is  just  a  spit  in  the  ocean  but  it  pays  forthe  four-colorbrochures.  By  this  time  we  got  our  artist's  rendering  of  the  T  wayne  Undenominational  Cathe-  dral  sitting  right  in  the  lobby  of  the  [REDACTED]  National  Bank  on  a  card  table  covered  with  angel  hair  left  over  from  Christmas,  and  the  money  is  just  pour-  ing  in.  And  I'm  worrying  about  how  we're  going  to  staff  this  cathedral.  We  need  a  sexton  and  a  bellringer  and  a  beadle  and  maybe  an  undenominational  archbishop,  and  that  last  is  hard  to  come  by.  Pretty  soon  the  ground  is  broken  and  the  steel  is  up,  and  the  Bell  Com-  mittee  is  wrangling  about  whether  the  carillon  is  going  to  be  sixteen  bells  or  thirty-two.  There  is  something  about  the cathedral  building  that  men  like,  Hen-  ry  said,  this  has  often  been  noticed.  And  the  first  thing  you  know  it's  Dedi-  cation  Day  and  the  whole  state  is  there,  it  seems  like,  with  long  lines  of  little  girls  carrying  bouquets  of  mistflowers  and  the  Elks  Honor  Guard  presenting  arms  with  M-16s  sent  back  in  pieces  from  Nam  and  reassembled  for  do-  mestic  use,  and  the  band  is  playing  the  Albinoni  Adagio  in  G  Minor  which  is  the  saddest  piece  of  music  ever  written  down  by  mortal  man  and  the  light  is  streaming  through  the  guaranteed  stained-glass  windows  and  the  awe  is  so  thick  you  could  cut  it  with  a  knife.  &quot;You  are  something  else,  Henry,&quot;  Perpetua  said.  8  PERPETVA  and  Andr\xc3\xa9  went  over  to  have  dinner  with  Sunny  Marge  and  Edmund.  &quot;'This  is  Andr\xc3\xa9,&quot;  Perpetua  said.  Andr\xc3\xa9,  a  well-dressed  graduate  of  the  Ecole  du  Regard,  managed  a  large  industry  in  Reims.  Americans  were  very  strange,  Andr\xc3\xa9  said.  They  did  not  have  a  stable  pattern  of  family  life,  as  the  French  did.  This  was  attributable  to  the  greater  liberty--  perhaps  license  was  not  too  strong  a  term-permitted  to  American  women   by  their  husbands  and  lovers.  American  women  did  not  know  where  their  own  best  interests  lay,  Andr\xc3\xa9  said.  The  intoxication  of  modern  life,  which  was  in  part  a  result  of  the  falling  away  of  former  standards  of  conduct  ...  Perpetua  picked  up  a  chicken  leg  and  tucked  it  into  the  breast  pocket  of  Andr\xc3\xa9's  coat.  &quot;Goodbye,  Andr\xc3\xa9.&quot;  Peter  called  Perpetua  school  in  New  England.  &quot;What's  the  matter,  Peter?&quot;  &quot;I'm  lonesome.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  want  to  come  stay  with  me  for  a  while?&quot;  &quot;No.  Can  you  send  me  fifty  dol-  lars?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  What  do  you  want  it  for?&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  buy  some  blue  racers.&quot;  Peter  collected  snakes.  Sometimes  Perpetua  thought  that  the  snakes  were  dearer  to  him  than  she  was.  from  his  9.  HAROLD  walked  apartment.  &quot;Harold,&quot;  Perpetua  said.  &quot;I  just  want  to  ask  you  one  ques-  tion,&quot;  Harold  said.  &quot;Are  you  happier  now  than  you  were  before?&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  Perpetua  said.  -Donauro  BARTHELME  into  Perpetua's  "