"HERE  IS  EINBAUM  ERE  is  Einbaum  at  an  open  H  casement  window,  three  floors  above  the  street.  On  the  cor-  ner  just  below  him,  barefooted,  a  beg-  gar  stands  in  the  fresh  fall  of  snow.  His  head  is  bare.  He  has  tipped  his  face  so  that  Einbaum  can  see  his  beard.  Be-  fore  him,  in  an  attitude  of  prayer,  the  palms  of  his  hands  are  pressed  together,  with  a  narrow  slit  for  coins  between  his  thumbs.  He  sings.  Someone  from  a  window  below  Einbaum  has  tossed  him  a  coin.  It  is  searched  for  in  the  snow  by  two  shabby  children  and  the  woman  who  holds  a  thirdchild  at  her  hip.  The  head  and  feet  of  this  child  are  bare,  but  it  looks  well  fed,  Einbaum  has  been  told  that  these  cunning  beggars  rent  the  children  from  people  who  have  too  many,  but  the  woman  who  told  him  this  is  the  one  who  dropped  the  coin.  What  is  he  to  believe-that  she  is  wrong,  or  merely  a  fool?  Until  he  was  told,  he  sometimes  dropped  a  coin  him-  self.  When  the  beggar  sang  Christmas  carols,  the  children  joined  in,  their  mouths  round  and  dark  in  their  pale  white  faces.  Einbaum's  delight  was  in  the  sensation  that  they  were  needy  and  he  could  help  them;  his  torment  in  the  certain  knowledge  that  he  was  a  fool.  In  the  room  behind  Einbaum  the  ceil-  ing  is  high  and  his  sister,  Ilse,  sits  sew-  ing  on  buttons.  She  is  paid  by  the  but-  ton.  Her  scalp  gleams  white  at  the  part  of  her  hair.  Einbaum  steps  back  from  the  window  to  let  the  housemaid,  Ka-  rina,  air  out  the  bolster  and  puff  the  pillows,  and  they  both  stand  waiting,  knowing  that  the  dust  will  make  her  sneeze.  Here  is  Einbaum  in  the  woods  of  the  Wienerwald,  concealed  by  shadows  and  leaves.  He  lies  sprawled  on  his  face;  we  see  only  the  soles  of  his  boots  and  the  rucksack  strapped  to  his  back.  One  arm  is  crooked  beneath  his  head.  The  other  grips  an  unloaded  military  rifle.  Ein-  baum  is  in  the  midst  ofthetraining  exercises  he  enjoys  much  more  than  he  does  his  freedom.  He  is  good  at  it.  He  can  tramp  with  his  pack  eighteen  miles  a  day.  In  his  group  it  is  openly  admitted  that  if  there  is  war  Einbaum  will  rise  fast.  He  likes  to  serve.  He  likes  the  sim-  ple  orderly  life.  On  him  and  around  him  glows  the  golden  light  of  a  melan-  choly  Viennese  fall,  the  leaves  crushed  by  lovers  who  havebeen  careful  to  stub  their  cigarettes.  Here  is  Einbaum  at  the  Studenten  Klub,  seated  at  the  window  overlook-  ing  the  Schottengasse:  snow  is  falling.  It  blurs  the  Christmas  lights  and  the  spire  of  Stefansdom.  Einbaum  strains  to  read  the  time  on  the  glowing  face  of  a  clock.  The  woman  seated  at  his  side  is  his  mistress,  Frau  Koenig.  She  wears  galoshes  that  are  wet  and  give  off  an  odor.  He  is  only  at  his  ease  with  her,  she  tells  him,  when  they  are  in  bed.  Little  if  anything  ever  said  to  Einbaum,  up  to  this  moment,  has  pleased  him  so  much.  Einbaum  the  heartless  rogue.  Einbaum  the  callous  sensualist.  It  is  un-  important,  for  the  time  being,  that  he  is  also  not  at  ease  with  her  in  bed.  Part  of  the  problem  is  technical.  He  some-  times  fears  he  might  suffocate.  Her  gloved  hands  rest  on  her  wide  matron's  lap.  Frau  Koenig  hasn't  given  him  much  pleasure,  but  she  has  given  Ein-  baum  great  plans.  He  will  bea  rou\xc3\xa9.  Generous  matrons  will  support  him  in  the  manner  to  which  he  will  one  day  be  accustomed.  As  the  snow  falls  he  wonders  what  time  it  is.  Frau  Koenig  will  misinterpret  Einbaum's  glancing  at  his  watch,  which  happened  to  be  the  one  she  gave  him.  Now  it  is  Christmas.  Before  buying  her  something  he  would  like  to  know  what  she  intends  to  give  him.  We  might  doubt  it,  but  this,  too,  is  Einbaum.  He  wears  a  bowler  and  carries  a  valise.  It  is  heavy  with  books  necessary  to  his  life  at  the  University.  Two  volumes  of  Spengler,  Count  Keyserling's  &quot;Travel  Diary,&quot;  one  book  of  Italian  grammar,  another  of  Italian  history.  There  is  also  a  separate  folder  of  notes,  written  in  code.  Einbaum  the  revolutionary,  the  egent  provocateur,  waits  on  the  steps  of  the  University  for  a  colleague  from  Graz,  Herr  L--  (Einbaum  will  always  see  it  with  the  letters  missing),  who,  with  Einbaum,  will  createthe  disturbance  initiating  the  new  order  in  [REDACTED].  The  password  is  &quot;Oesterreich  tber  alles,&quot;  unlikely  as  it  seems.  While  running  from  this  scene,  which  proved  to  be  a  fiasco,  he  is  pursued  by  a  man  no  larger  than  Doll-  fuss,  who  fires  a  shot  that  turns  up  in  the  second  volume  of  Einbaum's  Spengler-a  lead  pellet  he  later  attached  to  the  fob  of  his  watch.  He  liked  in-  trigue.  He  considered  an  offer  that  would  set  him  up,  comfortably,  in     35  Buda.  It  was  one  of  his  options  when  something  more  interesting  intervened.  Once  more,  here  is  Einbaum-but  does  it  matter?  Everyone  has  an  album  full  of  such  snapshots.  Few,  of  course,  were  ever  taken  by  the  camera,  but  they  remain  indelible  on  the  lens  of  the  eye.  In  the  dark,  asa  rule,  one  sees  them  the  clearest,  glowing  like  figures  on  the  face  of  a  watch.  Why  these  and  not  others?  Einbaum  often  wonders.  Something  to  do  with  his  own  life  and  torment.  He  cannot  spell  it  out,  but  in  these  recurring  snapshots  the  film  of  his  life  had  its  reruns.  He  studied  it  for  clues  to  what  later  happened:  some  inkling,  some  suggestion,  of  emerging  powers.  Nothing  unusual.  The  same  vague  apprehensions  common  to  mil-  lions  of  German  Jews.  Mendelssohn  Einbaum  often  feared  for  his  life,  but  that  was  hardly  news.  With  shame  he  admits  it,  but  a  German  first.  Both  sides  of  the  family  burghers  in  Linz,  where  they  special-  ized  in  leather  tanning.  Einbaum's  Jewish  grandfather  used  to  say  Aus-  tria  is  a  condition  from  which  Ger-  mans  must  recover.  Perhaps  Einbaum  did  not.  He  was  born  in  [REDACTED]-his  mother,  Elsa  Nottebaum,  an  actress  of  some  importance  in  Hofmannsthal's  plays.  Einbaum's  grandmother  wore  the  family  jewels  on  a  cord  between  her  breasts,  where  they  acquired  a  patina.  Is  it  possible  to  be  a  German  and  a  Jew?  Einbaum  stands  before  you.  Other  people's  clothes  fit  him  bet-  ter  than  his  own.  The  way  he  backs  into  a  chair,  or  crooks  his  finger  into  the  coin  slot  of  a  pay  phone,  the  way  he  nods  his  head,  like  a  finger,  when  speaking,  or  juts  it  forward,  wagging,  when  listening,  the  way  his  coat  gapes  open  like  a  tent  flap-but  the  impres-  sion  is  clearer  across  the  room  than  when  face  to  face.  A  German,  un-  mistakably,  and,  more  or  less  mistak-  ably,  a  Jew.  Was  it  the  German  or  the  Jew  in  him  that  seemed  to  be  the  clearest  that  day  in  August,  1939?  The  century  was  ten  years  older  than  Einbaum.  He  walked  in  a  drizzle  on  Kiarntnerstrasse.  Where  the  street  bends  and  opens  on  Stefansdom  he  stepped  from  the  curb  to  make  way  for  two  ladies.  The  hair  of  one  was  damp.  His  face  actually  brushed  it  as  he  dipped  his  head  beneath  her  um-  brella.  It  is  why  a  moment  passes  be-  fore  he  notes  the  cab  pulled  up  beside  him  at  the  curb.  From  the  lowered  rear  window  a  gloved  hand  beckons.  Einbaum  peers  around.  At  the  moment  he  stands  alone,  so  it  must  be  him.  &quot;Frau  Koenig?&quot;  he  says,  sure  that  it  must  be,  and  he  is  half  into  the  cab  " b" before  he  knows  better.  It  is  a  fine  scene:  Einbaum  bodily  abducted  in  the  full  light  of  day.  This  woman  in  the  cab  he  knows  casually  from  the  musical  evenings  at  the  Studenten  Klub,  and  from  pictures  of  her  in  the  Wiener  Tagblatt  skiing  in  the  Alps  or  playing  tennis.  A  peasant,  physically,  she  has  wrists  and  ankles  that  are  thicker  and  stronger  than  Einbaum's.  Her  blue  eyes  are  much  too  small  for  her  broad,  blond  face.  Not  that  it  mattered;  small  or  not,  they  had  singled  out  and  selected  Einbaum.  More  important  to  the  scene,  as  time  would  prove,  was  the  scent,  both  animal  and  mineral,  into  which  Einbaum  dipped  his  head.  The  day  was  humid.  In  such  weather  everything  smells.  It  left  the  cab  with  her,  how-  ever,  and  Einbaum  would  come  to  know  it  as  the  fleur  de  peur,  the  scent  of  fear  that  she  never  lost.  Soon  enough,  alas,  everything  else  would  be  taken  from  the  Countess  Horvath-  Szapati  but  this  odor-and  Mendels-  sohn  Einbaum.  Neither  was  ever  lost.  Was  it  with  this  incident  that  every-  thing  of  interest  might  be  said  to  have  begun?  The  summer  of  1939,  the  city  of  [REDACTED]  was  like  a  shabby  unaired  museum  full  of  aging  attendants  and  apprehensive  tourists,  where  young  men  and  women  of  Einbaum's  age  lived  with  dreams  already  buried.  [REDACTED]  was  not  music  to  Einbaum,  nor  the  sight  of  the  bedding  of  lovers  at  the  casement  windows,  nor  Keffee  mit  Schlag,  nor  a  dying  way  of  life,  nor  any  of  the  many  things  he  discussed  with  his  friends  or  read  in  the  Neve  Wiener  Zeitung.  In  those  days  he  car-  ried  a  card  engraved  with  the  name  of  Mendelssohn  Einbaum.  He  used  the  tip  of  his  cane  to  flip  leaves  from  the  sidewalk  and,  with  the  Countess,  a  Hungarian  from  Pest,  attended  the  s\xc3\xa9ances  of  Lady  Golding-Brieslau  in  her  apartment  on  Schottengasse.  Ein-  baum  liked  the  atmosphere  of  anxiety,  dread,  and  childish  awe.  At  the  ring-  ing  of  bells  his  heart  pounded.  The  odor  offear  was  stronger  than  the  incense.  Regardless  of  what  happened,  Einbaum  himself  felt  cleansed  and  one  of  the  chosen  to  have  survived  it,.  He  felt  he  understood  the  appeal  of  the  Mass  without  the  nonsense  ofthe  faith.  Besides  elderly  women,  he  also  met  people  of  unusual  background  or  supe-  rior  attainments.  Countess  Horvath-Szapati  played  remarkable  tennis  and  had  a  scholarly  interest,  like  her  father,  in  church  his-  tory.  She  spoke,  in  addition  to  Ger-  man  and  Hungarian,  excellent  Eng-  lish  and  French.  With  a  deliberation  that  was  characteristic  she  used  Ein-  baum  to  practice  her  French,  skillfully  fending  off  his  efforts  to  practice  his  English.  She  talked  of  going  to  [REDACTED].  Her  father,  Count  Horvath,  had  min-  ing  interests  that  would  profit  from  her  JUNE  26,  19  7  1  personal  supervision.  She  had  the  cun-  ning  and  assurance  of  a  Cossack.  Friz-  zly  straw-colored  hair  topped  her  large,  round  skull,  seamlessly  joined  to  her  shoulders.  Indoors  she  perspired.  In  the  dimmed  light  of  the  s\xc3\xa9ance  her  face  gleamed  like  gold  leaf.  All  the  features  were  too  small,  more  like  those  of  a  child  than  a  woman,  the  small  point-  ed  teeth  busily  nibbling  at  her  wind-  chapped  lips.  Hardly  a  beauty  or  a  charmer,  the  Countess  Horvath-Sza-  pati  had  a  somewhat  puzzling  but  mag-  netic  attraction.  Her  eyes  sparkled.  Something  to  do  with  animal  vitality.  Einbaum  was  not  alone  in  the  thought  he  had  given  to  how  a  man  might  se-  duce  such  a  woman,  if  that  was  the  word.  Her  thighs  were  enormous.  In  her  frequent  rages  at  tennis  blunders  she  would  snap  the  racquet  in  her  hands  like  pastry.  What  didshe  want  with  French!  She  considered  it  the  language  of  confidences.  Einbaum's  inside  track,  insofar  as  he  had  one,  lay  in  his  superior  knowledge  of  the  French  subjunctive.  The  question  of  what  to  do  with  mon-  ey,  for  instance,  or  jewels,  seemed  amusing  and  plausible  when  discussed  in  French.  It  was  possible  to  be  re-  markably  intimate,  and  yet  impersonal.  French  novels  were  specific,  if  notup-  to-date.  There  were  also  imaginary  problems  of  travel,  decisions  about  lug-  gage,  and  questions  of  climate.  Heat  shedid  not  like.  Her  favorite  high  place  in  Europe  seemed  to  be  in  Gavarnie,  in  the  Pyrenees.  One  could  see  it  on  a  poster  in  the  lobby  ofthe  American  Express.  She  liked  high  places.  She  liked  the  white  silence  of  a  world  of  snow.  Einbaum,  in  contrast,  felt  him-  self  especially  drawn  to  lower  altitudes  and  more  open  space.  The  American  Wild  West  appealed  to  Einbaum-  what  he  had  seen  of  it  in  the  movies.  Man  and  nature  harmoniously  blended.  The  savage  beauty  and  simplicity  of  the  Indian.  In  the  Historical  Museum,  Einbaum  had  paused  to  examine  the  feathered  headgear  of  the  chiefs,  and  their  bows  and  arrows.  Remote  as  cave-  men,  yet  alive  atthe  time  Einbaum's  Grandfather  Nottebaumcame  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED],  the  Battleof  Bala-  klava  the  high  point  of  his  long  life.  Einbaum  loved  the  movies  and  felt  they  were  related,  in  a  way,  to  the  s\xc3\xa9ance.  One  sat  in  the  dark  and  waited  for  materializations;  at  the  movies  they  occurred.  To  Einbaum's  taste,  these  appearances  were  more  gratifying  than  the  ringing  of  bells,  the  table  knock-  ings,  and  the  voices  thatthe  Countess  found  so  impressive.  Although  a  devout  Catholic,  she  likedthe  reassurance  ofa  more  physical  survival.  'The  spiritual  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  she  took  for  granted.  No  doctrine  jus-  tified  a  belief  in  the  spirit's  return  to  the  flesh,  but  she  felt  there  might  be  progress  in  this  area.  The  purpose  of  religion,  quite  simply,  was  to  dispense  with  the  problem  of  death.  A  start  had  been  made,  but  fulfillment  would  come  when  the  spirit  recovered  the  flesh  it  had  lost.  Einbaum  saw  it  as  part  of  her  primitive,  Magyar  inheritance.  It  amused  him  that  this  indestructible  woman  seemed  so  concerned  with  her  life  elsewhere.  She  wore  a  jewelled  cross,  a  scarab  ring,  and  carried  in  her  purse  cabalistic  objects  to  increase  her  luck  and  frighten  away  evil  spir-  its.  To  what  end?  Yet  Einbaum  noted  he  felt  safer  in  her  com-  pany.  As  the  summer  waned,  Einbaum  helped  the  Count-  ess  shop  for  what  she  might  need  in  her  travels.  It  was  not  clear  where;  that  would  be  the  last  decision  she  would  make.  He  rode  about  with  her  in  taxis,  holding  her  purchases.  In  the  confines  of  the  cab,  if  not  concealed  by  the  smell  of  her  rubbers,  or  of  her  wet  coat  and  umbrella,  Einbaum  was  aware,  as  in  a  shuttered  sickroom,  of  the  odor  of  the  patient,  or  the  illness.  This  woman  who  smelled  of  money,  health,  and  assurance  also  gave  off  the  sweet-sour  scent  of  fear.  An  essence-like  that  in  stoppered  bottles-puffed  out  of  her  clothes  when  she  sagged  into  a  chair.  Was  it  death  she  feared?  Was  she  ill  with  more  than  appre-  hension?  The  straw-yellow  hair,  the  ice-blue  eyes,  the  face  as  broad  and  flat  as  a  trowel  concealed  from  oth-  ers,  but  not  from  her,  the  dram  of  tainted  blood  that  troubled  her  thoughts.  In  diplomatic  French  she  ad-  mitted  to  that  they  had  more  in  common  than  met  the  eye.  In  her  father's  blood  Sophia  Kien-  holz,  a  Jewess,  had  left  the  strain  that  his  daugh-  ter,  among  others,  thought  apparent.  Not  anything  in  particular-no,  nothing  like  that.  One  simply  sensed  it  was  there,  as  one  sensed  it  in  Einbaum.  The  Jewish-  ness.  The  ;e  me  sais  quoi,  as  the  French  would  say.  Ein-  baum  was  quick  to  appreciate  the  con-  fidence,  and  share  their  mutual  bond  and  apprehension.  So  much  for  the  secretly  tainted  Count  Horvath.  But  what  did  this  have  to  do  with  the  openly  tainted  Einbaum?  They  were  in  the  Koeffechaus  fre-  quented  by  musicians,  on  the  Linden-  gasse.  Einbaum  had  taken  his  coffee  mit  Schlag,  and  sat  dunking  the  puff  with  his  spoon.  Conspiracies  he  liked.  In  French  they  ran  smoother  and  promised  more  reward.  In  public  the  Countess  frequently  wore  gloves  to  conceal  the  rings  embedded  in  her  fingers,  but  the  kid  leather  fit  so  snugly  it  bore  a  clear  imprint  of  the  stones.  37  There  had  been  no  discussion  about  how  to  conceal  the  jewels  she  could  not  take  off.  Einbaum  was  inexperienced,  but  not  indifferent  to  the  nuances  and  complexities  of  his  emotions.  He  liked  the  drama.  He  vaguely  sensed  that  the  drama,  with  the  passage  of  time,  would  prove  to  be  of  more  interest  than  the  crisis.  With  one  gloved  finger  the  Countess  Horvath-Szapati  pressed  her  lip  to  where  her  teeth  could  nibble  a  raw  spot,  her  eyes  flickering  from  side  to  side  to  show  the  charge  of  her  thought.  Einbaum  was  thinking  some-  body  should  paint  her,  regretting  that  he  lacked  the  talent.  This  cunning  blond  peasant  disguised  as  a  countess   " b"38  had  reason  for  her  apprehension.  What  reason  did  she  have  for  Einbaum?  In  the  opinion  of  the  Countess,  Mendelssohn  Einbaum  bore  a  remark-  able  resemblance  to  Count  Horvath.  The  same  stocky  frame,  with  no  neck  to  speak  of.  The  deferent,  attentive  manner  of  a  good  headwaiter.  Also  a  good  listener,  with  analmost  inaudible  voice.  The  Count  was  a  student  of  Ottoman  history  and  spent  most  of  his  time  living  privately,  among  his  books,  or  hunting  in  the  forests  of  Abony,  the  family  estate  neighboring  Pest.  He  saw  few  people;  outside  of  family  friends,  even  fewer  saw  him.  If  Einbaum,  for  instance,  occupied  the  Count's  quar-  ters-with  the  knowledge  of  a  few  close  servants-and  went  through  his  usual  habits,  or  stayed  in  his  quarters,  he  (the  Count)  might  not  actually  be  missed  for  weeks,  possibly  months.  That  would  prove  to  be  more  than  enough  time  for  the  Countess  and  her  father,  travelling  different  routes  to  the  same  destination,  to  be  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  Gavarnie,  in  the  Pyrenees,  or  possibly  the  Canary  Islands,  before  his  absence  was  noted.  Einbaum,  in  the  meantime,  would  have  broken  no  law  and  his  im-  personation  would  have  been  purely  accidental.  As  a  friend  of  the  Countess,  he  had  been  a  guest  on  the  estate.  He  could  stay  on,  or  he  could  return  to  [REDACTED]  as  soon  as  he  had  received  word  from  the  Countess.  Einbaum,  of  course,  would  do  this  as  a  favor,  but  the  Countess  would  see  to  it  that  he  was  rewarded.  One  of  the  rings  from  her  fingers  would  make  it  worth  his  trouble,  if  that  was  what  it  would  take.  Had  Einbaum  for-  gotten  that  he,  too,  was  a  Jew?  Perhaps  he  had  never  felt  it  so  strong-  ly.  Besides,  he  was  no  Horvath  and  had  noth-  ing  to  lose  but  his  life.  In  August  of  1939,  in  [REDACTED],  it  was  hard  to  imagine  who  would  take  Einbaum's.  There  were  laws  on  the  statute  books.  High  in  the  council  of  the  city  of  Linz  was  an  influential  uncle,  husband  of  an  Einbaum.  Besides,  the  minor  risks  in-  volved  appealed  to  him.  Not  for  noth-  ing  had  Einbaum  been  a  student  of  the  gangster  film  and  the  Wild  West.  Einbaum  himself  made  the  boat  reservations  for  their  trip  to  Budapest,  on  the  seventh  of  September.  That  was  the  season  for  river  outings,  and  they  were  certain  to  be  seen  by  innumerable  people.  For  this  excursion  Einbaum  bought  himself  a  trenchcoat,  of  the  sort  popular  with  Germans,  and  a  cane     often  seen  at  the  races,  with  the  handles  forming  a  saddle  the  observer  could  sit  on.  That  was  not  all.  The  metal  shaft  contained  a  glass  tube  for  sev-  eral  ounces  of  brandy  or  kirschwasser.  When  it  was  not  in  use,  he  wore  it  in  the  crook  of  his  arm.  HUS  matters  stood  on  the  first  of  September,  the  day  Hitler  in-  vaded  [REDACTED].  Just  one  day  later,  with  a  servant  named.  Rudi,  who  carried  several  pairs  of  skis  along  with  other  luggage,  the  Countess  and  Ein-  baum  took  a  train  for  a  ski  resort  in  the  Italian  Alps.  They  left  the  train  at  Graz,  however,  and  went  by  car  to  a  village  on  the  Hungarian  border.  Count  Horvath,  perhaps  without  lug-  gage,  would  arrive  on  the  bus  that  left  Pest  that  morning.  He  would  take  Einbaum's  seat  on  the  train;  Einbaum  would  return  to  Pest  on  the  bus.  If  there  were  complications,  the  Countess  would  return  to  Pest  and  they  would  make  new  plans.  The  bus  from  Pest  appeared  on  schedule,  before  midnight,  but  Count  Horvath  was  not  on  it.  A  briefcase  with  his  initials,  containing  a  bottle  of  akvavit,  two  Swiss  chocolate  bars,  and  a  phial  ofsleeping  powders,  was  found  on  one  of  the  seats.  With-  out  a  word  Sophia  Szapati  took  one  of  her  ski  poles  and  beat  the  driver  of  the  bus  as  she  would  a  horse.  When  Einbaum  tried  to  restrain  her,  she  beat  him.  The  metal  tip  left  the  scar  still  visible  through  his  beard.  All  of  this  was  observed  by  the  servant  Rudi,  from  his  seat  on  the  pile  of  luggage.  He  waited  both  for  help  and  for  the  seizure  to  pass.  This  side  of  her  tempera-  ment  was  new  to  Ein-  baum,  and  so  was  her  grief,  Was  it  her  affec-  tion  for  the  Count,  or  merely  the  interruption  of  her  plans?  Nothing  would  console  her.  She  bolted  the  door  to  her  room  in  theinn,  but  her  shoes  were  there  in  the  morning  for  Rudi  to  polish.  First  things  first.  Later  that  day,  inanely  gay,  as  if  drugged,  her  mouth  frozen  in  the  smile  of  an  animal  trainer,  she  appeared  at  Einbaum's  door  to  tell  him  that  mar-  riage  would  simplify  their  travel  prob-  lems.  Had  she  lost  her  mind?  The  point  seemed  academic.  She  still  had  more  mind  to  lose  than  Einbaum.  Nothing  at  Einbaum's  disposal  had  the  power  to  deflect  her  will.  There  would  be  delays,  thanks  to  complications,  and  Einbaum  thought  he  read  the  script  as  a  staged  performance,  an  act  of  hysteria  that  met  her  needs  but  for  which  she  might  not  be  responsible  later.  Shock,  they  called  it.  Einbaum  would  come  to  know  much  about  shock.  In  practical  terms,  the  novels  of  in-  trigue  supplied  them  both  with  a  pat-  tern  of  action.  Little  seemed  new.  All  of  this  had  been  done  so  often  before.  Stranger  couples  than  Einbaum  and  the  Countess  were  seen  on  trains  out  of  [REDACTED],  and  their  story  would  not  surprise  the  porter  she  had  generously  tipped.  The  servant  Rudi  had  been  blessed,  put  on  the  bus,  and  sent  back  to  Pest.  Strange  that  Einbaum,  rocking  in  a  berth  euphoric  with  akvavit  and  the  rising  elevation,  should  remark  that  he  had  seldom  felt  so  good  about  the  fu-  ture  at  the  moment  the  lights  were  go-  ing  out  over  Europe.  How  explain  it?  He  was  by  nature  a  gentle,  even  ap-  prehensive,  man.  MONEY  got  them  to  537061696e.  The  A  plane  itself,  a  kite  with  open  cock-  pits,  recruited  in  Gorizia,  was  worth  less  than  the  money  they  paid  for  the  pas-  sage,  but  she  enjoyed  the  flight.  At  a  moment  her  fear,  accumulating  for  hours,  would  release  itself  in  exhilara-  tion-the  thrill  of  a  child  rocking  the  seat  of  a  Ferris  wheel.  Einbaum  was  terrified.  He  sat  so  long  with  stiff,  clasped  hands  he  had  no  feeling  in  his  fingers.  Wind  filled  his  ears  at  night.  They  might  have  flown  on  to  Lisbon,  and  from  there  to  New  York,  but  the  travel  agent  could  find  few  listings  and  accommodations  under  &quot;Skiing.&quot;  Be-  fore  theyflew  on  to  [REDACTED],  where  little  snow  fell,  the  Countess  wanted  a  last  winter  of  skiing,  and  a  chance  to  re-  consider  her  plans  for  the  future.  The  war  might  soon  be  over.  Privately,  she  feared  the  godless  Russians  more  than  the  Germans,  With  her  two  sets  of  skis  and  shoe  skatesfor  Einbaum-along  with  wool  mittens  and  matching  fur  earmufis-  they  went  north  to  a  village  in  the  Spanish  Pyrenees  that  proved  to  be  jammed  with  refugee  traffic.  There  was  little  skiing.  There  was  also  a  shortage  of  rooms  and  beds.  The  rumor  was  that  ports  of  exit,  in  either  direc-  tion,  were  in  the  hands  of  spies  or  Nazi  sympathizers,  and  all  foreigners,  particularly  Jews,  were  subject  toin-  vestigation,  their  possessions  confiscat-  ed.  Was  it  possible?  Einbaum  thought  it  possible.  Countess  Horvath-Szapati,  travel-  ling  alone,  with  the  added  induce-  ment  of  a  little  jewelry,  might  fly  off  to  do  her  skiing  elsewhere.  Then  again  she  might  not.  Although  she  was  fond,  as  she  said,  of  Einbaum,  and  " b" talked  to  him  as  she  would  to  a  priest,  her  feelings,  as  well  as  her  affections,  followed  the  custom  of  a  master  and  a  servant.  Frankly,  Einbaum  rather  liked  it.  It  testified  to  her  breeding,  as  her  appearance  did  not.  On  the  vantage  side,  for  Einbaum,  this  proved  to  mean  that  she  needed  him  more  than  he  needed  her.  She  was  accustomed  to  a  Rudi,  or  a  Helga,  or  a  pet-she  was  subject  to  weeping  for  a  hound,  Siiss-  chen,  that  slept  on  her  bed  and  licked  her  awake-to  be  there  at  her  side,  at  her  service,  or  within  range  of  her  voice.  The  division  of  the  men  and  women  made  necessary  by  the  crowd-  ing-into  separate  groups,  occupying  separate  dormitories-was  a  greater  hardship  on  the  Countess  than  the  in-  cident  at  the  border.  She  could  not  stand  the  lack  of  privacy;  she  could  not  stand  absolute  privacy.  Without  Einbaum  she  lost  her  wits.  She  made  a  fool  of  herself  among  the  women,  pointing  out  that  she,  Sophia  Szapati,  was  a  countess,  and  offering  to  make  it  worth  the  while  of  those  with  the  taste  to  recognize  it.  Women  with  that  sort  of  taste  were  not  lacking.  The  Countess's  ingroup,  a  half-doz-  en  or  more  females  he  was  never  giv-  en  the  opportunity  to  study,  occupied  a  corner  of  the  dormitory  screened  off  from  the  room  with  several  bedsheets.  Among  them  was  a  Spanish  Jewess,  a  lean  bitter  woman  Einbaum  thought  he  might  have  seen  later  in  the  movie  &quot;La  Strada&quot;-one  of  the  faces  uplifted  to  the  performer  on  the  high  wire.  A  cardinal  principle  of  the  Countess  was  that  Jews  could  be  bought.  She  let  it  be  known  that  she  would  buy  her  way  out,  preferably  through  [REDACTED],  when  the  winter  was  over.  She  liked  the  lan-  guage.  She  would  take  up  residence  in  [REDACTED].  This  should  have  upset  Einbaum,  or  made  him  apprehensive,  but  his  tem-  perament  displayed  a  chronic  weakness:  people  amazed  him,  What  would  they  think  of  next?  His  anger  at  human  folly  was  not  equal  to  the  pleasure  ob-  serving  it  gave  him.  This  remarkable  woman,  known  to  him  as  a  countess,  could  change  her  spots  when  the  script  called  for  it.  The  word  &quot;script&quot;  was  Einbaum's.  It  seemed  appropriate  to  the  cast  and  the  circumstances.  Here  in  the  Pyrenees,  as  in  an  ambitious  movie,  several  thousand  strangers  were  locked  in  a  drama  of  waiting.  Einbaum  " b"40  it.  No,  as  the  speculated  on  did  not  merely  endure  tension  mounted,  he  its  resolution.  Along  with  hunches  and  calculated  guesses,  there  was  in-  creasingly  the  question  of  people.  Like  francs,  pesetas,  and  dollars,  they  were  negotiable.  Some  would  prove  to  cash  in,  others  to  check  out.  As  an  example,  the  Countess,  for  all  her  discomfort,  was  at  her  best  when  she  hated  some-  thing.  That  she  had  in  abundance.  It  brought  out  in  her  a  vitality,  a  passion,  that  Einbaum  associated  with  more  intimate  matters.  This  cow  ofa  wom-  an  aroused  desire.  Einbaum  marked  it  in  himself.  She  slept  in  the  clothes  she  feared  she  might  lose,  with  her  valua-  bles  worn  on  a  chain  at  her  armpit.  Einbaum  had  seen  them,  green  as  American  money,  when  she  raised  her  arms  to  put  up  her  hair.  Someone  had  told  her  this  patina  would  increase  their  value,  testifying  to  their  age.  Cash  mon-  ey  she  kept  in  a  fold  of  flesh  at  her  waist.  One  morning  at  sunrise,  the  village  still  in  the  shadow  of  the  snowcapped  peaks  to  the  east,  Einbaum  was  awak-  ened  by  a  boy,  Alexis,  and  hurriedly  taken  to  the  women's  quarters.  Most  of  them  slept.  There  had  been  no  dis-  turbance  to  wake  them  up.  The  stale  air  had  the  sickening  sweetness  Ein-  baum  associated  with  the  female  period.  In  the  favored  location,  for  which  she  had  paid,  set  off  from  the  cots  of  her  in-  group,  Sophia  Szapati  sprawled  on  her  back  as  if  stoned.  A  wet  towel  had  been  placed  on  her  forehead  and  eyes,  but  her  mouth  stood  open.  In  such  a  bulk,  how  small  it  looked.  A  quilt  pressed  between  her  flanks,  where  someone  had  kneeled.  Among  other  things  too  numerous  to  mention,  the  Countess  Szapati  had  lost  the  gold  crowns  to  her  teeth.  Someone  had  propped  open  the  jaws,  fished  them  out.  Einbaum  had  the  impression  ofa  crudely  looted  piece  of  antique  statuary,  known  to  have  had  rare  gems  for  eyes  and  solid  gold  teeth.  Nevertheless,  the  over-all  impression  was  comical.  A  beached  and  looted  hulk,  or  ship's  prow,  waiting  for  the  tide  to  sweep  it  out  to   sea.  The  ring  promised  to  Einbaum  had  been  cunningly  cut  from  her  finger.  On  her  spacious  behind-she  had  been  rolled  on  her  face  by  an  official  who  knew  what  to  look  for,  and  where-a  spot  no  larger  than  a  pinprick  indicated  the  point  where  the  needle  had  en-  tered.  Perhaps  it  had  never  left.  (Ein-  baum  had  heard  the  stories  of  how  they  circulated  like  fish  in  the  bloodstream.)  This  grotesque  incident  would  not  have  occurred  in  the  orderly  rigor  of  awell-  run  police  state,  and  owed  its  success  to  the  relaxed  confusion  of  the  time  and  place.  Friends  and  enemies  were  not  clearly  defined-a  situation  she  in-  stinctively  feared.  The  consensus  was  that  she  had  been  the  victim  of  the  im-  pression  she  left  on  others.  Nothing  would  kill  her.  So  she  had  had  the  benefit  oftoo  great  a  dose.  The  frail  and  the  cunning  were  better  qualified  to  survive.  Einbaum's  health  actually  improved  on  the  camp  rations  and  absence  of  to-  bacco.  The  letters  Einbaum  might  have  written  for  himself  he  wrote  for  others  in  French,  German,  and  English.  Few  were  answered.  Einbaum  was  not  tempted  to  try  his  luck.  The  past  so  desperately  cherished  by  others  held  little  attraction  for  him.  Nor  did  the  flight  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  or  the  United  [REDACTED].  Confinement  gratified  some-  thing  in  his  temperament.  An  elderly  Jew,  Klugmann,  who  asked  Einbaum's  help  with  his  Double-Crostics,  diagnosed  Einbaum's  contentment  as  a  return  to  the  womb  of  the  ghetto.  Here  in  the  camp  he  was  at  home.  In  a  condition  of  freedom  was  he  ill  at  ease?  Klugmann  had  practiced  psychoanalysis  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  anxiety  of  the  Jews,  if  they  had  not  been  dispersed  by  war  and  in-  cineration,  would  have  tested  Klug-  mann's  theory  that  fear  was  more  pro-  ductive  of  spiritual  renewal  than  hope.  Now  it  hung  in  the  air.  Klugmann  talked  in  this  way  while  Einbaum  dozed  over  the  gaps  in  Klugmann's  Double-Crostics-an  American  enter-  tainment  supplied  to  him  by  the  secre-  tary  of  the  American  Friends  Service  Committee,  a  society  of  Quakers.  The  Crostics  came  to  her  from  a  friend  in  New  York  by  the  name  of  Bettina  Gernsprecher.  It  was  Einbaum  who  took  the  trouble  to  write  and  thank  her  for  them  both.  ERE  is  Einbaum  in  New  York.  A  greeting-card  salesman,  he  has  the  use  of  one  of  the  company's  imported  Volvos.  The  president  is  a  Swede,  astrong  believer  in  foreign  trade.  Einbaum's  area  is  in  Bucks  County,  where  his  knowledge  of  Ger-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  man  is  considered  an  advantage.  His  man-  ner  is  friendly,  but  his  speech  is  a  sort  of  muttering,  and  the  talk  slacks  off.  There  is  something  annoy-  ing  about  Einbaum,  but  it  goes  unmentioned,  being  hard  to  define.  What  is  appealing  is  obvious.  Einbaum  is  human.  He  has  lived,  like  you,  an  already  long  and  pointless  life.  He  is  on  the  road  four  or  five  days  a  week,  and  looks  forward  to  sleeping  late  on  Sun-  days.  While  in  the  city  Einbaum  stays  with  Bettina  Gernsprecher,  who  colors  the  greeting  cards  by  hand.  The  outline  is  there,  and  Bettina  is  free  to  vary  thecolors  of  the  lips,  the  hair,  and  the  eyes.  This  costs  the  buyer  extra,  but  it  gives  Bet-  tina  a  steady  job.  It  takes  eight  months  of  the  year  to  prepare  for  the  seasonal  rushes.  Bettina  sits  on  a  stool,  her  back  arched  over  so  the  bones  protrude  like  knuck-  les,  her  knees  drawn  up  to  support  the  clipboard  and  the  card.  She  puts  a  point  to  the  brush  by  twisting  it  on  her  lips.  Einbaum  has  warned  her.  He  has  told  her  the  story  of  the  women  who  died  from  painting  numerals  on  watch  faces-those  that  glow  in  the  dark.  Bettina's  cards  do  not  glow  as  yet,  but  oneday  they  might.  On  his  trips  to  the  city  Einbaum  brings  her  his  laundry,  and  while  they  listen  to  music  she  darns  his  socks.  She  likes  to  darn.  She  cannot  sit  for  long  without  using  her  hands.  Early  pictures  of  Bettina  are  lack-  ing,  since  they  were  destroyed  with  the  ghetto  in  Cracow.  Because  she  was  tall  for  her  age,  a  place  was  made  for  her  in  a  brothel  limited  to  Jewish  females.  This  information  she  shared  with  Einbaum  the  Sunday  they  went  to  the  Met  together.  Humiliation,  re-  morse,  even  self-disgust  are  sentiments  that  she  has  dispensed  with.  There  is  skill  in  her  hands.  She  received  her  training  in  a  concentration  camp.  She  paid  her  own  way  when  Einbaum  took  her  to  lunch,  and  shared  with  him  the  lower  half  of  her  daybed.  Stretched  at  his  side,  or  beneath  him,  she  was  taller,  buther  chronic  stoop  brought  her  eye  to  eye  with  him  in  elevators.  Einbaum   saw  very  little  of  her  when  they  walked  in  the  street.  He  found  himself,  soon  enough,  either  a  stride  or  two  behind  her  or  several  strides  ahead  and  paus-  ing  to  wait  for  her.  During  her  for-  mative  years,  she  had  either  been  led  (she  found  it  hard  to  remember)  or  pushed  from  behind.  It  is  not  easily  explained  that  a  woman's  age  and  appearance  seem  irrelevant.  Einbaum  talked  a  good  deal;  could  it  be  said  she  listened?  When  Einbaum  showered,  he  would  find  looped  over  the  curtain  rail  her  brassiere  with  the  padded  cups:  if  a  woman  really  cared  that  much,  why  didn't  she  care  more?  Another  time  he  found  a  shirt  that  was  not  his  own  in  the  laundry  he  brought  back  from  the  city.  A  small  neck  size,  but  the  arms  of  an  ape.  Einbaum  returned  the  shirt  without  comment,  and  that  was  where  the  matter  rested.  Nevertheless,  in  her  company  he  was  subject  to  puzzling  sensations.  Years  after  any  woman  had  been  seen  with  a  bob,  Bettina  found  it  a  sen-  sible  hair  style.  The  hair  in  front  she  cut  herself,  and  let  the  barber  apply  clippers  at  the  back.  Einbaum  could  not  make  up  his  mind  if  he  thought  her  a  new  and  higher  form  of  life  or  a  lower.  Her  detachment  extended  beyond  the   things  of  this  world.  It  was  the  con-  trary-he  felt  obliged  to  point  out-  with  Sophia  Szapati,  the  other  woman  in  his  life.  She  had  been  attached  to  things  until  death  and  thieves  took  them  from  her.  &quot;Looted&quot;  was  the  word.  Einbaum  had  frequently  de-  scribed  the  spectaclefor  Bettina.  The  puzzling  thing  was  that  these  two  women,  for  all  their  differences,  had  one  thing  in  common.  They  had  chosen  Einbaum.  It  could  not  be  said  that  he  had  actually  chosen  them.  Sophia  had  all  but  kidnapped  him  in  [REDACTED],  beck-  oning  to  him  from  the  back  seat  of  the  taxi,  and  Bettina  Gernsprecher,  sight  unseen,  had  agreed  to  support  him  until  he  foundwork,  persuading  her  em-  ployer  with  the  ape-long  arms  to  hire  Einbaum  as  a  greeting-card  salesman.  So  here  is  Einbaum-through,  as  we  say,  no  fault  of  his  own.  "