 b"THE  NEY  BASEBALL  F  it  were  merely  a  sport,  baseball  would  enjoy  the  permanence  and  stability  of  ballet  or  checkers,  but  businessmen  know  that  baseball  must  keep  up  with  the  times.  Such  innova-  tions  as  artificial  turf  and  the  Astro-  dome  were  thought  up  by  treasurers  and  have  almost  brought  the  game  up  to  date.  (To  be  precise,  they  have  brought  it  up  to  June  11,  1951,  ac-  cording  to  the  latest  figures.)  The  next  decade  will  see  even  more  radical  changes,  and  one  can  only  wonder  whether  baseball's  farseeing  executives  are  aware  of  what  lies  just  ahead.  Baseball  flourished  at  a  time  when  most  people  accepted  the  doctrine  of  predestination.  Later,  during  the  De-  pression  and  in  the  Second  World  War,  baseball  offered  certitude  toa  confused  nation.  Since  then,  however,  the  writings  of  Sartre  and  Camus  have  made  untenable  our  comfortable  as-  sumptions  about  &quot;safe&quot;  and  &quot;out,&quot;  the  excitement  of  observing  players  at  a  distance  has  diminished  with  the  devel-  opment  of  wide-screen  movies,  and  a  new  time-space  consciousness,  ushered  inby  the  Apollo  moon  shots,  has  ren-  dered  &quot;power  hitters&quot;  pathetically  obso-  lete.  Alas,  a  home  run  no  longer  rates  as  a  &quot;blast&quot;  even  if  it  is  &quot;hit  a  mile.&quot;  In  a  simpler  era,  Ty  Cobb  came  up  to  the  plate  in  a  mood  of  fierce  deter-  mination,  but  today's  players,  aware  of  the  diminishing  importance  of  hitting  the  ball,  are  more  content  to  experience  at-batness.  In  the  dugout,  the  athletes  no  longer  discuss  batting  averages,  girls,  and  the  stock  market  but  the  swiftly  changing  dynamics  and  dialectics  of  the  onetime  &quot;national  pastime.&quot;  In  con-  temporary  baseball,  they  agree,  cause-  and-effect  sequentiality  is  giving  way  to  simple  concurrence  of  phenomena  as  the  crisis  in  baseball's  system  of  linear  reaction  brings  on  a  new  &quot;system&quot;  of  concentric  and  reflexive  response,  and  the  old  stately  inwardness  ofthe  game  is  losing  out  to,  or  giving  in  to,  out-  wardness,  or  rather  awayness;  the  static  balance  of  baseball-pitcher  vs.  batter,  base  runner  vs.  infielder-will  shortly  slither  into  flow,  and  the  crowd,  not  content  to  cheer  the  artifice  of  great  hitters  and  pitchers,  will  rise  in  tribute  to  the  natural  organic  unity  of  a  scoreless  game.  In  a  few  years,  the  ultra-lively  ball  will  be  introduced,  ending  the  game  as  we  know  it.  Baseball  fans  will  quickly  tire  of  seeing  thirty  home  runs  in  one  game  and  will  demand  a  complete  re-  structuring.  The  first  barrier  to  fall  will  be  the  outfield  fence.  The  outfield  will  be  extended  up  to  ten  or  twelve  miles,  depending  on  local  zoning.  Baseball,  which  has  always  concentrated  on  the  pitcher,  will  look  outward  to  the  hori-  zon,  and  a  period  of  exploration  will  occur  as  players  wander  over  the  hill  to  search  for  the  ball.  The  &quot;home-  base&quot;  concept  will  be  scrapped  next,  of  course,  along  with  the  ball-and-strike  construct,  and  the  infield  will  become  a  mere  appendix-a  staging  area  or  on-  deck  circle,  as  it  were.  Infielders  will  wait  there  for  their  turn,  which,  as  often  as  not,  will  never  come.  Out-  fielders,  on  the  other  hand,  will  be  free  as  antelope,  roaming  the  farther  regions  for  fly  balls  or,  as  the  case  may  be,  not  for  fly  balls,  the  ball  itself  having  changed.  Its  flight  will  be  erratic  and  mysterious;  a  player  will  no  longer  be  said  to  be  &quot;on  theball&quot;  or  even  &quot;un-  der&quot;  the  ball  but  rather  &quot;near&quot;  the  ball  -in  sight  of  it,  perhaps  circling  it  or  viewing  it  curiously.  The  time  scheme  of  baseball-three  outs  to  a  side,  two     B5  sides  to  an  inning,  nine  innings  to  a  game-will  be  simplified  by  eliminating  outs,  sides,  and  innings,  thus  leaving  the  idea  of  the  game  itself  whole  and  round,  and  people  will  play  until  the  sun  goes  down  or  the  cows  come  home.  In  time,  of  course,  the  entire  stadium  setup  will  become  useless  as  spectators  are  drawn  into  the  playing  area,  and  free  participation  will  evolve  as  tasks  become  less  specialized.  This  will  lead  to  the  disappearance  of  ballplayers  as  a  performing  \xc3\xa9lite.  Players  and  specta-  tors  alike  will  wonder,  &quot;What  is  hap-  pening?&quot;  and  &quot;Will  it  happen?&quot;  and  &quot;What  do  I  do  in  either  eventuality?&quot;  The  umpires,  who  will  have  disap-  peared  along  with  home  plate,  will  re-  turn  to  baseball  as  friendly  advisers,  suggesting  alternative  courses  of  action,  turns  of  phrase,  avenues  of  thought.  People  will  enjoy  great  freedom  of  op-  portunity,  and  some  real-estate  specula-  tion  will  take  place  in  deep  center,  most  likely  multiple-family  housing  and  light  commercial  development. "