"36  THE  SCHMEED  MEMOIR  S  The  seemingly  inexhaustible  spate  of  hterature  on  the  Third  Reich  continues  unabated  with  the  soon  to  be  published  &quot;Memoirs  of  Friedrich  Schmeed.&quot;  Schmeed,  the  best-known  barber  in  wartime  [REDACTED],  provided  tonsorial  services  for  Hitler  and  many  highly  placed  government  and  military  offi-  cials.  As  was  noted  during  the  Nurem-  berg  Trials,  Schmeed  not  only  seemed  to  be  always  at  the  right  place  at  the  right  time  but  possessed  &quot;more  than  total  recall,&quot;  and  was  thus  uniquely  qualified  to  write  this  incisive  guide  to  innermost  Nazi  [REDACTED].  Following  are  a  few  brief  excerpts:  cedes  pulled  up  in  front  of  my  bar-  bershop  at  127  Koenigstrasse,  and  Hitler  walked  in.  &quot;I  just  want  a  light  trim,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  don't  take  too  much  off  the  top.&quot;  I  explained  to  him  there  would  be  a  brief  wait  because  von  Ribbentrop  was  ahead  of  him.  Hitler  said  he  was  in  a  rush  and  asked  Ribbentrop  if  he  could  be  taken  next,  but  Ribbentrop  insisted  it  would  look  bad  forthe  Foreign  Office  if  he  were  passed  over.  Hitler  thereupon  made  a  quick  phone  call,  and  Ribbentrop  was  immediately  transferred  to  the  Afrika  Korps,  and  Hitler  got  his  haircut.  This  sort  of  rivalry  went  on  all  the  time.  Once,  Goring  had  Heydrich  detained  by  the  police  on  false  pretenses,  so  that  he  could  get  the  chair  by  the  window.  Goring  was  a  dissolute  and  often  wanted  to  sit  on  the  hobbyhorse  to  get  his  haircuts.  The  Nazi  high  command  was  embar-  rassed  by  this  but  could  do  nothing.  One  day,  Hess  challenged  him.  &quot;I  want  the  hobbyhorse  to-  day,  Herr  Field  Mar-  shal,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Impossible.  I  have  it  reserved,&quot;  Goring  shot  back.  &quot;I  have  orders  direct-  ly  from  the  Fuhrer.  They  state  that  I  am  to  be  allowed  to  sit  on  the  horse  for  my  hair-  cut.&quot;  And  Hess  produced  a  letter  from  Hitler  to  that  effect.  Goring  was  livid.  He  never  for-  gave  Hess,  and  said  that  in  the  future  he  would  have  his  wife  cut  his  hair  at  home  with  a  bowl.  Hitler  laughed  when  he  IN  the  spring  of  1940,  a  large  Mer-  heard  this,  but  Goring  was  serious  and  would  have  carried  it  out  had  not  the  Minister  of  Arms  turned  down  his  requisition  for  thinning  shears.  I  havebeen  asked  if  I  was  aware  of  the  moral  implications  of  what  I  was  doing.  As  I  told  the  tribunal  at  Nurem-  berg,  I  did  not  know  that  Hitler  was  a  Nazi.  The  truth  was  that  for  years  I  thought  he  worked  for  the  phone  company.  When  I  finally  did  find  out  what  a  monster  he  was,  it  was  too  late  to  do  anything,  as  I  had  made  a  down  payment  on  some  furniture.  Once,  toward  the  end  of  the  war,  I  did  con-  template  loosening  the  Fithrer's  neck-  napkin  and  allowing  some  tiny  hairs  to  get  down  his  back,  but  at  the  last  minute  my  nerve  failed  me.  At  Berchtesgaden  one  day,  Hitler  turned  to  me  and  said,  &quot;How  would  I  look  in  sideburns?&quot;  Speer  laughed,  and  Hitler  became  affronted.  &quot;I'm  quite  serious,  Herr  Speer,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  I  might  look  good  in  sideburns.&quot;  Go-  ring,  that  obsequious  clown,  concurred  instantly,  saying,  &quot;The  Fuhrer  in  side-  burns-what  an  excellent  idea!&quot;  Speer  still  disagreed.  He  was,  in  fact,  the  only  one  with  enough  integrity  to  tell  the  Fithrer  when  he  needed  a  haircut.  &quot;Too  flashy,&quot;  Speer  said  now.  &quot;Side-  burns  are  the  kind  of  thing  I'd  associ-  ate  with  Churchill.&quot;  Hitler  became  in-  censed.  Was  Churchill  contemplating  sideburns,  he  wanted  to  know,  and  if     APRIL  17,  1971  so,  how  many  and  when?  Himmler,  supposedly  in  charge  of  Intelligence,  was  summoned  immediately.  Goring  was  annoyed  by  Speer's  attitude  and  whispered  to  him,  &quot;What  are  you  making  waves,  ch?  If  he  wants  side-  burns,  let  him  have  sideburns.&quot;  Speer,  usually  tactful  to  a  fault,  called  Goring  a  hypocrite  and  &quot;an  order  of  bean  curd  in  a  German  uniform.&quot;  Goring  swore  he  would  get  even,  and  it  was  rumored  later  that  he  had  special  S.S.  guards  french  Speer's  bed.  Himmler  arrived  in  a  frenzy.  He  had  been  in  the  midst  of  a  tap-dancing  lesson  when  the  phone  rang,  summon-  ing  him  to  Berchtesgaden.  He  was  afraid  it  was  about  a  misplaced  carload  of  several  thousand  cone-shaped  party  hats  that  had  been  promised  Rommel  for  his  winter  offensive.  (Himmler  was  not  accustomed  to  being  invited  to  din-  ner  at  Berchtesgaden,  because  his  eye-  sight  was  poor  and  Hitler  could  not  bear  to  watch  him  bring  the  fork  up  to  his  face  and  then  stick  the  food  some-  where  on  his  cheek.)  Himmler  knew  something  was  wrong,  because  Hitler  was  calling  him  &quot;Shorty,&quot;  which  he  only  did  when  annoyed.  Suddenly  the  Fithrer  turned  on  him,  shouting,  &quot;Is  Churchill  going  to  grow  sideburns?&quot;  Himmler  turned  red.  &quot;Well?&quot;  Himmler  said  there  had  been  word  that  Churchill  contemplated  sideburns  but  it  was  all  unofficial.  As  tosize  and  number,  he  explained,  there  would  probably  be  two,  of  a  medium  length,  but  no  one  wanted  to  say  be-  fore  they  could  be  sure.  Hitler  screamed  and  banged  his  fist  on  the  table.  (This  was  a  tri-  umph  for  Goring  over  Speer.)  Hitler  pulled  out  a  map  and  showed  us  how  he  meant  to  cut  off  [REDACTED]'s  supply  of  hot  towels.  By  block-  ading  the  Dardanelles,  Doenitz  could  keep  the  towels  from  being  brought  ashore  and  laid  across  anxiously  await-  ing  British  faces.  But  the  basic  question  re-  mained:  Could  Hitler  beat  Churchill  to  side-  burns?  Himmler  said  Churchill  had  a  head  start  and  that  it  might  be  impossible  to  catch  him.  Goring,  that  vacu-  ous  optimist,  said  the  Fithrer  could  probably  grow  sideburns  quicker,  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  particularly  if  we  marshalled  all  of  Ger-  many's  might  in  a  concentrated  effort.  Von  Rundstedt,  at  a  meeting  of  the  General  Staff,  said  it  was  a  mistake  to  try  to  grow  sideburns  on  two  fronts  at  once  and  advised  that  it  would  be  wiser  to  concentrate  all  efforts  on  one  good  sideburn.  Hitler  said  he  could  do  it  on  both  cheeks  simultaneously.  Rommel  agreed  with  von  Rundstedt.  &quot;They  will  never  come  out  even,  mein  Fiihrer,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Not  if  you  rush  them.&quot;  Hitler  became  enraged  and  said  that  it  was  a  matter  for  him  and  his  barber.  Speer  promised  hecould  triple  our  output  of  shaving  cream  by  the  fall,  and  Hitler  was  euphoric.  Then,  in  the  winter  of  1942,  the  Russians  launched  a  counter-offensive  and  the  sideburns  came  to  a  halt.  Hitler  grew  despondent,  fearing  that  soon  Churchill  would  look  wonderful  while  he  still  remained  &quot;ordinary,&quot;  but  shortly  thereafter  we  received  news  that  Churchill  had  aban-  doned  the  idea  of  sideburns  as  too  cost-  ly.  Once  again  the  Fiihrer  had  been  proved  right.  FTER  the  Allied  invasion,  Hitler  developed  dry,  unruly  hair.  This  was  due  in  part  to  the  Allies'  success  and  in  part  to  the  advice  of  Goebbels,  who  told  him  to  wash  it  every  day.  When  General  Guderian  heard  this,  he  immediately  returned  home  from  the  Russian  front  and  told  the  Fithrer  he  must  shampoo  his  hair  no  more  than  three  times  weekly.  This  was  the  pro-  cedure  followed  with  great  success  by  the  General  Staff  in  two  previous  wars.  Hitler  once  again  overruled  his  generals  and  continued  washing  daily.  Bormann  helped  Hitler  with  the  rins-  ing  and  always  seemed  to  be  there  with  a  comb.  Eventually,  Hitler  became  dependent  on  Bormann,  and  before  he  looked  in  a  mirror  he  would  always  have  Bormann  look  in  it  first.  As  the  Allied  armics  pushed  east,  Hitler's  hair  grew  worse.  Dry  and  unkempt,  he  often  raged  for  hoursabout  how  he  would  get  a  nice  haircut  and  a  shave  when  [REDACTED]  won  the  war,  and  may-  be  even  a  shine.  I  realize  now  he  never  had  any  intention  of  doing  those  things.  One  day,  Hess  took  the  Fihrer's  bottle  of  Vitalis  and  set  out  in  a  plane  for  [REDACTED].  The  German  high  com-  mand  was  furious.  They  felt  Hess  planned  to  give  it  to  the  Allies  in  re-  turn  for  amnesty  for  himself.  Hitler  was  particularly  enraged  when  he  heard  the  news,  as  he  had  just  stepped  out  of  the  shower  and  was  about  to  do  his  hair.  (Hess  later  explained  at  Nu-  remberg  that  his  plan  was  to  give  Churchill  a  scalp  treatment  in  an  effort  to  end  the  war.  He  had  got  as  far  as   bending  Churchill  over  a  basin  when  he  was  apprehended.  )  Late  in  1944,  Goring  grew  a  mus-  tache,  causing  talk  that  he  was  soon  to  replace  Hitler.  Hitler  was  furious  and  accused  Goring  of  disloyalty.  &quot;There  must  be  only  one  mustache  among  the  leaders  of  the  Reich,  and  it  shall  be  mine!&quot;  he  cried.  Goring  argued  that  two  mustaches  might  give  the  Ger-  man  people  a  greater  sense  of  hope  about  the  war,  which  was  going  poorly,  but  Hitler  thought  not.  Then,  in  January  of  1945,  a  plot  by  several  generals  to  shave  Hitler's  mustache  in  his  sleep  and  proclaim  Doenitz  the  new  leader  failed  when  von  Stauf-  fenberg,  in  the  darkness  of  Hitler's  bed-  room,  shaved  off  one  of  the  Fiihrer's  eyebrows  instead.  A  state  of  emergency  was  proclaimed,  and  suddenly  Goebbels  appeared  at  my  shop.  &quot;An  attempt  was  just  made  on  the  Fithrer's  mustache,  but  it  was  unsuccessful,&quot;  he  said,  trem-  bling.  Goebbels  arranged  for  me  to  go  on  radio  and  address  the  German  peo-  ple,  which  Idid,  with  a  minimum  of  notes.  &quot;The  Fithrer  is  all  right,&quot;I  as-  sured  them.  &quot;He  still  has  his  mustache.  Repeat.  The  Fithrer  still  has  his  mus-  tache.  A  plot  to  shave  it  has  failed.&quot;  EAR  the  end,  I  came  to  Hitler's  bunker.  The  Allied  armies  were  closing  in  on  [REDACTED],  and  Hitler  felt  that  if  the  Russians  got  there  first  he  would  need  a  full  haircut  but  if  the     Americans  did  he  could  get  by  with  a  light  trim.  Everyone  quarrelled.  In  the  midst  of  all  this,  Bormann  wanted  a  shave,  and  I  promised  him  I  would  get  to  work  on  some  blueprints.  Hitler  grew  morose  and  remote.  He  talked  of  part-  ing  his  hair  from  ear  to  ear  and  then  claimed  thatthe  development  of  the  electric  razor  would  turn  the  war  for  [REDACTED].  &quot;We  will  be  able  to  shave  in  seconds,  ch,  Schmeed?&quot;  he-  muttered.  He  mentioned  other  wild  schemes  and  said  that  someday  he  would  have  his  hair  not  just  cut  but  shaped.  Obsessed  as  usual  by  sheer  size,  he  vowed  he  would  eventually  have  a  huge  pompa-  dour-&quot;one  that  will  make  the  world  tremble  and  will  require  an  honor  guard  to  comb.&quot;  Finally,  we  shook  hands  and  I  gave  him  a  last  trim.  He  tipped  me  one  pfennig.  &quot;I  wish  it  could  be  more,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  ever  since  the  Allies  have  overrun  Europe  I've  been  a  little  short.&quot;  "