 THE  CABALIST  OF  S  happens  so  often  in  New  York,  A  the  neighborhood  changed.  The  synagogues  became  churches,  the  yeshivas  restaurants  or  garages.  Here  and  there  one  could  still  see  a  Jewish  old  people's  home,  a  shop  selling  Hebrew  books,  a  meeting  place  for  landsleit  from  some  village  in  Ru-  mania  or  [REDACTED].  I  had  to  come  downtown  a  few  times  a  week,  because  the  \xc2\xa5iddish  newspaper  to  which  I  con-  tributed  was  still  there.  In  the  cafeteria  on  the  corner,  in  former  times  one  could  meet  Yiddish  writers,  journalists,  teachers,  fund  raisers  for  [REDACTED],  and  the  like.  Blintzes,  borscht,  kreplech,  chopped  liver,  rice  pudding,  and  egg  cookies  were  the  standard  dishes.  Now  the  place  catered  mainly  to  Negroes  and  Puerto  Ricans.  The  voices  were  different,  the  smells  were  different.  Still,  I  used  to  go  there  occasionally  to  eat  a  quick  lunch  or  to  drink  a  cup  of  coffee.  Each  time  I  entered  the  cafe-  teria,  I  would  immediately  see  a  man  I'll  call  Joel  Yabloner,  an  old  Yiddish  writer  who  specialized  in  the  cabala.  He  had  published  books  about  Holy  Isaac  Luria,  Rabbi  Moshe  of  Cordoba,  the  Baal  Shem,  Rabbi  Nachman  of  Bratslav.  Yabloner  had  translated  part  of  the  Zohar  into  Yiddish.  He  also  wrote  in  Hebrew.  According  to  my  calculations,  he  must  have  been  in  his  early  seventies.  Joel  Yabloner,  tall,  lean,  his  face  sallow  and  wrinkled,  had  a  pointed  skull  without  a  single  hair,  a  sharp  nose,  sunken  cheeks,  a  throat  with  a  promi-  nent  Adam's  apple.  His  eyes  bulged  and  were  the  color  of  amber.  He  wore  a  shabby  suit  and  an  unbuttoned  shirt  that  revealed  the  white  hair  on  his  chest.  Yabloner  had  never  mar-  ried.  In  his  youth  he  suffered  from  consumption,  and  the  doc-  tors  had  sent  him  to  a  sanatorium  in  [REDACTED].  Someone  told  me  that  there  he  was  forced  to  eat  pork,  and  as  a  result  he  fell  into  melan-  choly.  I  seldom  heard  him  utter  a  word.  When  I  greeted  him,  he  barely  nodded  and  often  averted  his  eyes.  He  lived  on  the  few  dollars  a  week  the  Yiddish  Writers  Union  could  spare  him.  His  apartment  on  Broome  Street  had  no  bath,  telephone,  central  heating.  He  ate  neither  fish  nor  meat,  not  even  eggs  or  milk-only  bread,  vegetables,  and  fruit.  In  the  cafeteria  he  always  ordered  a  cup  of  black  coffee  and  a  dish  of  prunes.  He  would  sit  for  hours  staring  at  the  revolving  door,  at  the  cashier's  desk,  or  the  wall  where,  years  ago,  a  commercial  artist  had  painted  the  mar-  EAST  BROADVAY  ket  on  Orchard  Street,  with  its  push-  carts  and  peddlers.  The  paint  was  peel-  ing  now.  The  president  of  the  Writers  Union  told  me  that  although  all  of  Joel  Ya-  bloner's  friends  and  admirers  had  died  out  here  in  New  York,  he  still  had  rela-  tives  and  disciples  in  the  land  of  [REDACTED].  They  had  often  invited  him  to  come  there  to  live.  They  would  publish  his  works,  they  promised  (he  had  trunks  filled  with  manuscripts),  find  an  apart,  ment  for  him,  and  see  that  he  was  taken  care  of  in  every  way.  Yabloner  had  a  nephew  in  Jerusalem  who  was  a  pro-  fessorat  the  university.  There  were  still  some  Zionist  leaders  who  considered  Joel  Yabloner  their  spiritual  father.  So  why  should  he  sit  here  on  East  Broad-  way,  a  silent  and  forgotten  man?  'The  Writers  Union  would  have  sent  his  pen-  sion  to  him  in  [REDACTED],  and  he  could  also  have  received  Social  Security,  which  he  had  never  bothered  to  claim.  Here  in  New  York  he  had  already  been  bur-  glarized  a  few  times.  A  mugger  had  knocked  out  his  last  three  teeth.  Eiser-  man,  the  dentist  who  had  translated  Shakespeare's  sonnets  into  Yiddish,  told  me  that  he  had  offered  to  make  Ya-  bloner  a  set  of  false  teeth,  but  Yabloner  had  said  to  him,  &quot;There  is  only  one  step  from  false  teeth  to  a  false  brain.&quot;  &quot;A  great  man,  but  a  queer  one,&quot;  Eiserman  said  to  me  while  he  drilled  and  filled  my  own  teeth.  &quot;Or  perhaps  he  wants  to  atone  for  his  sins  this  way.  I've  heard  that  he  had  love  affairs  in  his  youth.&quot;  &quot;Yabloner-love  affairs?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  love  affairs.  I  myself  knew  a  Hebrew  teacher,  Deborah  Soltis,  who  was  madly  in  love  withhim.  She  was  my  patient.  She  died  about  ten  years  ago.&quot;  In  connection  with  this,  Eiserman  told  me  a  curious  epi-  sode.  Joel  Yabloner  and  Deb-  orah  Soltis  saw  each  other  over  a  period  of  twenty  years,  indulging  in  long  conversations,  often  discuss,  ing  Hebrew  literature,  the  fine  points  of  grammar,  Maimonides,  and  Rabbi  Judah  ha-Levi,  but  the  pair  never  went  so  far  as  to  kiss,  The  closest  they  came  was  once  when  both  of  them  were  looking  up  the  meaning  of  a  word  or  an  idiom  in  Ben-Yahudah's  great  dic-  tionary  and  their  heads  met  accidentally.  Yabloner  fell  into  a  playful  mood  and  said,  &quot;Deborah,  let's  trade  eyeglasses.&quot;  &quot;What  for?&quot;  Deborah  Soltis  asked.  &quot;Oh,  just  like  that.  Only  for  a  little  while.&quot;  The  two  lovers  exchanged  reading  glasses,  but  he  couldn't  read  with  hers  and  she  couldn't  read  with  his.  So  they  replaced  their  own  glasses  on  their  own  noses-and  that  was  the  most  intimate  contact  the  two  ever  achieved.  EVENTUALLY,  I  stopped  going  down  to  East  [REDACTED].  I  sent  my  articles  to  the  newspaper  by  mail.  I  forgot  Joel  Yabloner.  I  didn't  even  know  that  he  was  still  alive.  Then  one  day  when  I  walked  into  a  hotel  lobby  in  Tel  Aviv  I  heard  applause  in  an  adjoining  hall,  The  door  to  the  hall  was  half  open  and  I  looked  in.  There  was  Joel  Yabloner  behind  a  lectern,  making  a  speech.  He  wore  an  alpaca  suit,  a  white  shirt,  a  silk  skullcap,  and  his  face  appeared  fresh,  rosy,  young.  He  had  a  full  set  of  new  teeth  and  had  sprouted  a  white  goatee.  I  happened  not  to  be  especially  busy,  so  I  found  an  empty  chair  and  sat  down.  Yabloner  did  not  speak  modern  He-  brew  but  the  old  holy  tongue  with  the  Ashkenazi  pronunciation.  When  he  gesticulated,  I  noticed  the  sparkling  links  in  his  immaculate  shirt  cuffs.  I  heard  him  say  in  a  Talmudic  singsong,  &quot;Since  the  Infinite  One  filled  all  space  and,  as  the  Zohar  expresses  it,  'No  space  is  empty  of  Him,'  how  did  He  create  the  universe?  Rabbi  Chaim  Vital  gave  the  answer:  'Before  creation,  the  at-  tributes  of  the  Almighty  were  all  po-  tential,  not  actual.  How  canone  be  a  king  without  subjects,  and  how  can  there  be  mercy  without  anyone  to  re-  ceive  it?'  &quot;  Yabloner  clutched  his  beard,  glanced  at  his  notes.  Once  in  a  while,  he  took  a  sip  from  a  glass  of  tea.  I  observed  quite  a  number  of  women  and  even  young  girls  in  the  audience.  A  few  stu-  dents  took  notes.  How  strange-there  was  also  a  nun.  She  must  have  under-  stood  Hebrew.  &quot;The  Jewish  state  has  resuscitated  Joel  Yabloner,&quot;  I  said  to  myself.  One  seldom  has  a  chance  to  enjoy  someone  else's  good  fortune,  and  for  me  Yabloner's  triumph  was  a  sym-  bol  of  the  Eternal  Jew.  He  had  spent  decades  as  a  lonely,  neglected  man.  Now  he  seemed  to  have  come  into  his  own.  I  listened  to  the  rest  of  the  lecture,  which  was  followed  by  a  question  pe-  riod.  Unbelievable,  but  that  sad  man  had  a  sense  of  humor.  I  learned  that  the  lecture  had  been  organized  by  a  committee  which  had  undertaken  to  publish  Yabloner's  work.  One  of  the  members  of  the  committee  knew  me,  and  asked  if  I  wished  to  attend  a  ban-  quet  in  Yabloner's  honor.  &quot;Since  you  are  a  vegetarian,&quot;  he  added,  &quot;here  is  your  chance.  They  will  serve  only  vegetables,  fruits,  nuts.  When  do  they  " b"ever  have  a  vegetarian  banquet?  Once  in  a  lifetime.&quot;  Between  the  lecture  and  the  ban-  quet,  Joel  Yabloner  went  out  on  the  terrace  for  a  rest.  The  day  had  been  hot,  and  now  in  the  late  afternoon  a  breeze  was  blowing  from  the  sea.  I  ap-  proached  him,  saying,  &quot;You  don't  re-  member  me,  but  I  know  you.&quot;  &quot;I  know  you  very  well.I  read  ev-  erything  you  write,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;Even  here  I  try  not  to  miss  your  stories.&quot;  &quot;Really,  it  is  a  great  honor  for  me  to  hear  you  say  so.&quot;  &quot;Please  sit  down,&quot;  he  said,  indicat-  ing  a  chair.  God  in  Heaven,  that  silent  man  had  become  talkative.  He  asked  me  all  kinds  of  questions  about  [REDACTED],  East  [REDACTED],  Yiddish  literature.  A  wom-  an  came  over  to  us.  She  wore  a  turban  over  her  white  hair,a  satin  cape,  and  men's  shoes  with  low,  wide  heels.  She  had  a  large  head,  high  cheekbones,  the  complexion  of  a  gypsy,  black  eyes  that  blazed  with  anger.  The  beginnings  of  a  beard  could  be  seen  on  her  chin.  In  a  strong,  mannish  voice  she  said  to  me,  &quot;Adoni  [Sir],  my  husband  just  fin-  ished  an  important  lecture.  He  must  speak  at  the  banquet,  and  I  want  him  to  rest  for  a  while.  Be  so  good  as  to  leave  him  alone.  He  is  not  a  young  man  anymore  and  he  should  not  exert  himself.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  excuse  me.&quot;  Yabloner  frowned.  &quot;Abigail,  this  man  is  a  Yiddish  writer  and  my  friend.&quot;  &quot;He  may  be  a  writer  and  a  friend,  but  your  throat  is  overstrained.  If  you  argue  with  him,  you  will  be  hoarse  later.&quot;  &quot;Abigail,  we  aren't  arguing.&quot;  &quot;Adoni,  please  listen  to  me.  He  doesn't  know  how  to  take  care  of  him-  self.&quot;  &quot;Well,  we  shalltalk  later,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  have  a  devoted  wife.&quot;  So  they  tell  me.&quot;  I  took  part  in  the  banquet-ate  the  nuts,  almonds,  avocados,  cheese,  ba-  nanas  that  were  served.  Yabloner  again  made  a  speech,  this  time  about  the  au-  thor  of  the  cabalistic  book  &quot;The  Trea-  tise  of  the  Chassidim.&quot;  His  wife  sat  near  him  on  the  stage.  Each  time  his  voice  became  scratchy  she  handed  him  a  glass  of  white  fluid-some  variety  of  yogurt.  After  the  speech,  in  the  course  of  which  Yabloner  demonstrated  much  erudi-  tion,  the  chairman  announced  that  an  assistant  professor  at  the  Hebrew  Uni-     versity  was  writing  Yabloner's  biogra-  phy  and  that  funds  were  being  raised  to  publish  it.  The  author  was  called  out  on  the  stage.  He  was  a  young  man  with  a  round  face,  shining  eyes,  and  the  tiniest  of  skullcaps,  which  blended  into  his  pomaded  hair.  In  his  clos-  ing  words,  Yabloner  thanked  his  old  friends,  his  students,  all  those  who  came  to  honor  him.  He  paid  tribute  to  his  wife,  Abigail,  saying  that  without  her  help  he  would  never  havebeen  able  to  put  his  manuscripts  in  order.  He  men-  tioned  her  first  husband,  whom  he  re-  ferred  to  as  a  genius,  a  saint,  a  pillar  of  wisdom.  From  a  huge  handbag  that  resembled  a  valise  more  than  a  lady's  purse,  Mrs.  Yabloner  took  out  a  red  kerchief  like  the  ones  used  by  old-  fashioned  rabbis  and  blew  hernose  with  a  blast  that  reverberated  throughout  the  hall.  &quot;Let  him  intercede  for  us  at  the  Throne  of  Glory!&quot;  she  called  out.  After  the  banquet  I  went  over  to  Yabloner  and  said,  &quot;Often  when  I  saw  you  sitting  all  alone  in  the  cafeteria  I  was  tempted  to  ask  you  why  you  didn't  go  to  [REDACTED].  What  was  your  reason  for  waiting  so  long?&quot;  He  paused,  closing  his  eyes  as  if  the  question  required  pondering,  and  finally  " b"  shrugged  his  shoulders.  ;Man  does  not  live  according  to  reason.;  GAIN  a  few  years  passed.  The  typesetter  on  the  newspaper  for  which  I  worked  had  lost  a  page  of  my  most  recent  article,  and  since  the  article  had  to  appear  the  next  day-Satur-  day-there  wasn't  time  to  send  the  copy  by  mail.  I  had  to  take  a  cab  to  deliver  it  to  the  composing  room  my-  self.  I  gave  the  missing  page  to  the  foreman  and  went  down  to  the  edi-  torial  department  to  see  the  editor  and  some  of  my  old  colleagues.  The  winter  day  was  short,  and  when  I  came  back  onto  the  street  I  felt  the  long-forgotten  hustle  and  bustle  of  the  oncoming  Sab-  bath.  Even  though  the  neighborhood  was  no  longer  predominantly  Jewish,  some  synagogues,  yeshivas,  and  Chas-  sidic  study  houses  had  refused  to  leave.  Here  and  there  I  saw  in  a  window  a  woman  lighting  her  Sabbath  candles.  Men  in  wide-brimmed  velvet  or  fur  hats  were  going  to  prayers,  accompa-  nied  by  boys  with  long  sidelocks.  My  father's  words  came  to  my  mind:  ;The  Almighty  will  always  have  His  quo-  rum.;  I  remembered  the  chants  of  the  Sabbath-eve  liturgy:  ;Let  us  exalt,;  ;Come  my  bridegroom,;  ;The  temple  of  the  King.;  I  was  not  in  a  hurry  anymore,  and  I  decided  to  have  a  cup  of  coffee  in  the  cafeteria  before  I  took  the  subway  home.  I  pushed  the  revolving  door.  For  a  moment  I  imagined  that  noth-  ing  had  changed,  and  I  thought  I  could  hear  those  voices  of  my  first  years  in  [REDACTED]-the  cafeteria  filled  with  Old  World  intellectuals  shouting  their  opin-  ions  of  Zionism,  Jewish  Socialism,  the  life  and  culture  in  [REDACTED].  But  the  faces  were  not  familiar.  Spanish  was  the  language  I  heard.  The  walls  had  been  painted  over,  and  the  scenes  of  Orchard  Street  with  its  pushcarts  and  peddlers  had  disappeared.  Suddenly  I  saw  something  I  could  not  believe.  At  a  table  in  the  middle  of  the  room  sat  Joel  Yabloner-without  a  beard,  in  a  shabby  suit  and  an  unbuttoned  shirt.  He  was  emaciated,  wrinkled,  and  di-  shevelled,  and  his  mouth  again  appeared  sunken  and  empty.  His  bulging  eyes  stared  at  the  empty  wall  opposite.  Was  I  mistaken?  No,  it  was  Yabloner,  all  right.  In  his  expression  there  was  the  desperation  of  a  man  caught  in  a  dilem-  ma  from  which  there  is  no  escape.  With  the  cup  of  coffee  in  my  hand,  I  stopped.  Should  I  approach  him  to  greet  him,  should  I  ask  permission  to  sit  down  at  his  table?  Someone  pushed  me,  and  halfof  my  coffee  spilled  over.  The  spoon  fell  on  the  floor  with  a  clang.  Yabloner  turned  around  and  our  eyes  met  for  a  second.  I  nodded  to  him,  but  he  did  not  re-  spond.  Then  he  turned  his  face  away.  Yes,  he  recognized  me,  but  he  was  not  in  a  mood  for  conversation.  I  even  imagined  that  he  had  shaken  his  head  in  refusal.  I  found  a  table  against  the  wall  and  sat  down.  I  drank  what  was  left  of  my  coffee,  all  the  while  looking  at  him  sideways.  Why  had  he  left  Is-  rael?  Did  he  miss  something  here?!  Was  he  running  away  from  someone?  I  had  a  strong  desireto  go  over  and  ask  him,  but  I  knew  that  I  would  not  get  anything  out  of  him.  A  power  stronger  than  man  and  his  calculations  has  driven  him  out  of  Para-  dise,  back  to  Hell,  Idecided.  He  did  not  even  go  to  the  Friday-night  serv-  ices.  He  was  hostile  not  only  to  people  but  to  the  Sabbath  itself.  I  finished  the  coffee  and  left.  A  few  weeks  later,  I  read  among  the  obituaries  that  Joel  Yabloner  had  died.  He  was  buried  somewhere  in  [REDACTED].  That  night  Ilay  awake  until  three  o'clock,  thinking  about  him.  Why  did  he  return?  Had  he  not  atoned  enough  for  the  sins  of  his  youth?  Had  his  re-  turn  to  East  [REDACTED]  some  explana-  tion  in  the  lore  of  the  cabala?  Had  some  holy  sparks  strayed  from  the  World  of  Emanation  into  the  Evil  Host?  And  could  they  havebeen  found  and  brought  back  to  their  sacred  origin  only  in  this  cafeteria?  Another  idea  came  into  my  head-perhaps  he  want-  ed  to  lie  near  that  teacher  with  whom  he  exchanged  cyeglasses?  I  remem-  bered  the  last  words  I  heard  from  him:  ;Man  does  not  live  according  to  rea-  son.; "