  THE  END  OF  THE  DUEL  T\xc2\xb0S  a  good  many  years  ago,  now,  that  Carlos  Reyles,  the  son  of  the  Uruguayan  novelist,  told  me  the  story  one  summer  evening  out  in  Adrogu\xc3\xa9.  In  my  memory,  after  all  this  time,  the  long  chronicle  of  a  feud  and  its  grim  ending  are  mixed  up  with  the  medicinal  smell  of  the  eucalyptus  trees  and  the  babbling  voices  of  birds.  We  sat  talking,  as  usual,  of  the  tan-  gled  history  of  our  two  countries,  Uru-  guay  and  the  Argentine.  Reyles  said  that  probably  I'd  heard  of  Juan  Patricio  Nolan,  who  had  won  quite  a  reputa-  tion  as  a  brave  man,  a  practical  joker,  and  a  rogue.  Lying,  I  answered  yes.  Though  Nolan  had  died  back  in  the  nineties,  people  still  thought  of  him  as  a  friend.  As  always  happens,  however,  he  had  his  enemies  as  well.  Reyles  gave  me  an  account  of  one  of  Nolan's  many  pranks.  The  thing  had  happened  a  short  time  before  the  battle  of  Manan-  tiales;  two  gauchos  from  Cerro  Largo,  Manuel  Cardoso  and  Carmen  Silveira,  were  the  leading  characters.  How  and  why  did  they  begin  hating  each  other?  How,  after  a  century,  can  one  unearth  the  long-forgotten  story  of  two  men  whose  only  claim  to  being  remembered  is  their  last  duel?  A  fore-  man  of  Reyles'  father,  whose  name  was  Laderecha  and  &quot;who  had  the  whiskers  of  a  tiger,&quot;  had  collected  from  oral  accounts  certain  details  that  I  tran-  scribe  now  with  a  good  deal  of  mis-  giving,  since  both  forgetfulness  and  memory  are  apt  to  be  inventive.  Manuel  Cardoso  and  Carmen  Silveira  had  a  few  acres  of  land  that  bordered  each  other.  Like  the  rootsof  other  passions,  those  of  hatred  are  mysterious,  but  there  was  talk  of  a  quarrel  over  some  un-  branded  cattle  or  a  free-for-all  horse  race  in  which  Silveira,  who  was  the  stronger  of  the  two,  had  run  Cardoso's  horse  off  the  edge  of  the  course.  Months  afterward,  a  long  two-  handed  game  of  truco  of  thirty  points  was  to  take  place  in  the  local  saloon.  Following  al-  most  every  hand,  Sil-  veira  congratulated  his  opponent  on  his  skill,  but  in  the  end  left  him  without  a  cent.  When  he  tucked  his  winnings  away  in  his  money  belt,  Silveira  thanked  Cardoso  forthelesson  he  had  been  given.  It  was  then,  I  believe,  that  they  were  at  the  point  of  having  it  out.  The  game  had  had  its  ups  and  downs.  In  those  rough  places  and  in  that  day,  man  squared  off  against  man  and  steel  against  steel.  But  the  onlookers,  who  were  quite  a  few,  separated  them.  A  peculiar  twist  of  thestory  is  that  Manuel  Cardoso  and  Carmen  Silveira  must  have  run  across  each  otherout  in  the  hills  on  more  than  one  occasion  at  sundown  or  at  dawn,  but  they  never  actually  faced  each  other  until  the  very  end.  Maybe  their  poor  and  monotonous  lives  held  nothing  else  for  them  than  their  hatred,  and  that  was  why  they  nursed  it.  In  the  long  run,  without  suspecting  it,  each  of  the  two  became  a  slave  to  the  other.  I  no  longer  know  whether  the  events  I  am  about  to  relate  are  effects  or  causes.  Cardoso,  less  out  of  love  than  out  of  boredom,  took  up  with  a  neigh-  bor  girl,  La  Serviliana.  That  was  all  Silveira  had  to  find  out,  and,  after  his  manner,  he  began  courting  her  and  brought  her  to  his  shack.  A  few  months  later,  finding  her  in  the  way,  he  threw  her  out.  Full  of  spite,  the  woman  tried  to  seek  shelter  at  Cardoso's.  Cardoso  spent  one  night  with  her,  and  by  the  next  noon  packed  her  off.  He  did  not  want  the  other  man's  leavings.  It  was  around  that  same  time,  just     before  or  just  after  La  Serviliana,  that  the  incident  of  Silveira's  sheepdog  took  place.  Silveira  was  very  fond  of  the  animal,  andhad  named  him  Treinta  y  Tres,  after  Uruguay's  thirty-three  founding  fathers.  When  the  dog  was  found  dead  in  a  ditch,  Silveira  was  quick  to  suspect  who  had  given  it  poison.  Sometime  during  the  winter  of  1870,  a  civil  war  broke  out  between  the  Col-  orados,  or  Reds,  who  were  in  power,  and  Aparacio's  Blancos,  or  Whites.  The  revolution  found  Silveira  and  Car-  doso  in  the  same  crossroads  saloon  where  they  had  played  their  game  of  cards.  A  Brazilian  half-breed,  at  the  head  ofa  detachment  of  gaucho  militia-  men,  harangued  all  those  present,  tell-  ing  them  that  the  country  needed  them  and  thatthe  government  oppression  was  unbearable.  He  handed  around  white  badges  to  mark  them  as  Blancos,  and  at  the  end  of  his  speech,  which  nobody  understood,  everyone  in  the  place  was  rounded  up.  They  were  not  allowed  even  to  say  goodbye  to  their  families.  Manuel  Cardoso  and  Carmen  Sil-  veira  accepted  theirfate;  a  soldier's  life  was  no  harder  than  a  gaucho's.  Sleep-  ing  in  the  open  on  their  sheepskin  sad-  dle  blankets  was  something  to  which  they  were  already  hardened,  and  as  for  killing  men,  that  held  no  difficulty  for  hands  already  in  the  habit  of  killing  cattle.  The  clinking  of  stirrups  and  weapons  is  one  of  the  things  always  heard  when  cavalry  enter  into  action.  The  man  who  is  not  wounded  at  the  out-  set  thinks  himself  in-  vulnerable.  A  lack  of  imagination  freed  Car-  doso  and  Silveira  from  fear  and  from  pity,  al-  though  once  in  a  while,  as  they  headed  a  charge,  fear  brushed  them.  They  were  never  homesick.  The  ideaof  patriotism  was  alien  to  them,  and,  in  spite  of  the  badges  they  wore  on  theirhats,  one  party  was  to  them  the  same  as  the  other.  During  the  course  of  marches  and  countermarches,  they  learned  what  a  man  could  do  with  a  spear,  and  they  found  out  that  being  companions  allowed  them  to  go  on  being  enemies.  They  fought  shoulder  to  shoulder  and,  for  all  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  we  know,  did  not  exchange  a  single  word.  IT  was  in  the  sultry  fall  of  1871  that  their  end  was  to  come.  The  fight,  which  would  not  last  an  hour,  hap-  pened  in  a  place  whose  name  they  never  knew.  (Such  places  are  later  named  by  historians.)  On  the  eve  of  battle,  Cardoso  crept  on  all  fours  in-  to  his  officer's  tent  and  asked  him  sheepishly  would  he  save  him  one  of  the  Reds  if  the  Whites  won  the  next  day,  because  up  till  then  he  had  not  cut  anyone's  throat  and  he  wanted  to  know  what  it  was  like.  His  superior  prom-  ised  him  that  if  he  handled  himself  like  a  man  he  would  be  granted  that  favor.  The  Whites  outnumbered  the  en-  emy,  but  the  Reds  were  better  equipped  and  cut  them  down  from  the  crown  of  a  hill.  After  two  unsuccessful  charges  that  never  reached  the  sum-  mit,  the  Whites'  commanding  officer,  badly  wounded,  surrendered.  On  the  very  spot,  at  his  own  request,  he  was  put  to  death  by  the  knife.  Themen  laid  down  their  arms.  Captain  Juan  Patricio  Nolan,  who  commanded  the  Reds,  arranged  the  expected  execution  of  the  prisoners  down  to  the  last  detail.  He  was  from  Cerro  Largo  himself,  and  knew  all  about  the  old  rivalry  between  Silveira  and  Cardoso.  He  sent  forthe  pair  and  told  them,  &quot;I  already  know  you  two  can't  stand  the  sight  of  each  other,  and  that  for  some  time  now  you've  been  looking  for  a  chance  to  have  it  out.  I  have  good  news  for  you.  Before  sundown,  the  two  of  you  are  going  to  have  the  chance  to  show  who's  the  bet-  ter  man.  I'm  going  to  stand  you  up  and  have  your  throats  cut,  and  then  you'll  run  a  race.  God  knows  who'll  win.&quot;  The  soldier  who  had  brought  them  took  them  away.  It  was  not  long  before  the  news  spread  throughout  the  camp.  Nolan  had  made  up  his  mind  that  the  race  would  close  the  proceedings,  but  the  prisoners  sent  him  a  representative  to  tell  him  thatthey,  too,  wanted  to  be  spectators  and  to  place  wagers  on  the  outcome.  Nolan,  who  was  an  under-  standing  man,  let  himself  be  per-  suaded.  The  bets  were  laid  down-  money,  riding  gear,  spears,  sabres,  and  horses.  In  due  time  they  would  be  handed  over  to  the  widows  and  next  of  kin.  The  heat  was  unusual.  So  that  no  one  would  miss  his  siesta,  things  were  delayed  until  four  o'clock.  No-  lan,  in  the  [REDACTED]  American  style,  kept  them  waiting  another  hour,.  He  was  probably  discussing  the  campaign  with  Ez  his  officers,  his  aide  shuttling  in  and  out  with  the  mat\xc3\xa9  kettle.  Both  sides  of  the  dirt  road  in  front  ofthe  tents  were  lined  with  prisoners,  who,  to  make  things  easier,  squatted  on  the  ground  with  their  hands  tied  behind  their  backs.  A  few  of  them  relieved  their  feelings  in  a  torrent  of  swearwords,  one  went  over  and  over  the  beginning  of  the  Lord's  Prayer,  almost  all  were  stunned.  Of  course,  they  could  not  smoke.  They  no  longer  cared  about  the  race  now,  but  they  all  watched.  &quot;They'll  be  cutting  my  throat  on  me,  too,&quot;  one  of  them  said,  showing  his  envy.  &quot;Sure,  but  along  with  the  mob,&quot;  said  his  neighbor.  &quot;Same  as  you,&quot;  the  first  man  snapped  back.  With  his  sabre,  a  sergeant  drew  a  line  in  the  dust  across  the  road.  Sil-  veira's  and  Cardoso's  wrists  had  been  untied  so  that  they  could  run  freely.  A  space  of  some  five  yards  was  be-  tween  them.  Each  man  toed  the  mark.  A  couple  of  the  officers  asked  the  two  not  to  let  them  down  because  every-  one  had  placed  great  faith  in  them,  and  the  sums  they  had  bet  on  them  came  to  quite  a  pile.  It  fell  to  Silveira's  lot  to  draw  as   executioner  the  mulatto  Nolan,  whose  forefathers  had  no  doubt  been  slaves  of  the  Captain's  family  and  therefore  bore  his  name.  Cardoso  drew  the  Reds'  official  cutthroat,  a  man  from  Cor-  rientes  well  along  in  years,  who,  to  com-  fort  a  condemned  man,  would  pat  him  on  the  shoulder  and  tell  him,  &quot;'Take  heart,  friend.  Women  go  through  far  worse  when  they  give  birth.&quot;  Their  torsos  bent  forward,  the  two  eager  men  did  not  look  at  each  other.  Nolan  gave  the  signal.  The  mulatto,  swelling  with  pride  to  be  at  the  center  of  attention,  over-  did  his  job  and  opened  a  showy  slash  that  ran  from  ear  to  ear;  the  man  from  Corrientes  did  his  with  a  narrow  slit.  Spurts  of  blood  gushed  from  the  men's  throats.  They  dashed  forward  a  num-  ber  of  steps  before  tumbling  face  down.  Cardoso,  as  he  fell,  stretched  out  his  arms.  Perhaps  never  aware  of  it,  he  had  won.  "