"THE  FIRST  LUNAR  INVITATIONAL  IVE  short  years  after  Alan  Shep-  ard,  swinging  an  improvised  6-  iron,  took  a  one-handed  poke  at  a  golf  ball  on  the  moon,  space  suits  were  developed  which  permitted  a  nice  full  shoulder  turn  and  the  Vardon  overlapping  grip.  The  next  year,  1977,  the  first  Semi-Invitational  Tournament  was  scheduled,  under  the  joint  sponsor-  ship  of  NASA,  ALCOA,  M.LT.,  and  Bob  Hope.  An  elimination  tournament  was  held  under  simulated  conditions  in  the  Mojave  Desert,  and  the  refined  field  of  thirty  pros,  plus  twenty  invited  celebrities,  was  lifted  from  Cape  Ken-  nedy  on  the  Monday  following  the  Azalea  Open.  A  maximum  of  three  woods  per  bag  was  allowed,  mallet,  head  putters  were  forbidden,  and  cad-  dies  were  expected  to  double.  T  wo  mod-  ules,  ofthe  &quot;bus&quot;  type  developed  by  Lockheed  to  transport  the  football  teams  matched  in  the  previous  January's  Crater  Classic,  cast  off  from  the  mother  ship  Thursday  morning,  for  a  tee-off  time  of  9  a.m.  Players  grumbled  of  sleeplessness  and  the  failure  of  off-  cials  to  provide  for  a  practice  round,  but  praised  the  dry,  open  fairways  and  evi-  dently  relished  the  absence  of  wind  and  water  hazards.  &quot;We'll  tear  this  baby  apart,&quot;  Lee  Trevino's  voice  crackled  confidently  across  the  vastness  of  space.  Robert  Trent  Jones,  working  from  detailed  relief  maps  of  the  lunar  sur-  face,  had  designed  with  the  aid  of  com-  puters  in  Lacus  Somniorum  a  42,000-  yard  layout,  threaded  among  the  natu-  ral  outcroppings  and  effluvia  and  the  debris  left  by  previous  expeditions.  The  cups  were  cut  and  the  eighteen  cores  thus  taken  shipped  back  to  the  Manned  Spacecraft  Center  in  [REDACTED]  for  pul-  verization,  analysis,  and  adoration.  The  rules  committee  pondered  the  inch  or  so  of  ubiquitous  dust  and  suspended  the  law  against  grounding  your  club  in  a  sand  trap.  But  preferred  lies  were  banned.  One  ofthe  invited  amateurs,  a  [REDACTED]  oilman  playing  snugly  to  a  hand-  icap  of  23,  had  brought  along  a  piece  of  Astroturf  to  make  his  own  lies  pref-  erable.  American  flags  of  titanium  foil,  battery-powered  to  simulate  rippling,  vividly  signalled  the  pin  placements.  The  tee  markers  were  pineapples  rock-  eted  in  fresh  each  day  from  the  private  Dole  launching  pad  in  Oahu,  at  not  a  penny's  cost  to  the  taxpayer.  The  pros  quickly  adjusted  to  the  extraterrestrial  conditions.  The  dust,  for  instance,  was  &quot;fluffy&quot;  rather  than  &quot;gritty,&quot;  and  the  ball  could  be  &quot;struck&quot;  rather  than  &quot;stung,&quot;  as  if  from  a  lie  of  bedded  dandelion  polls;  though  it  was  hard  to  put  enough  &quot;stop&quot;  on  the  ball  for  the  rock-hard  &quot;greens&quot;  of  smooth  lunar  gneiss.  &quot;It's  a  chipper's  game  up  here,&quot;  big-hitting  George  Archer  con-  fided  to  the  three  hundred  million  tele-  viewers  of  the  tournament.  &quot;It's  like  playing  in  a  flour  bin,&quot;  Miller  Barber  observed  from  behind  his  accustomed  sunglasses,  and  the  43616e616461bound  gal-  lery  could  verify,  despite  the  ragged  television  transmission,  that  owing  to  the  tendency  ofthe  divots  to  hang  cloudlike  in  the  air  the  players  slowly  accumulated  bulk,  like  snowmen.  Moon  play  had  other  peculiarities.  Without  an  atmosphere,  balls  could  not  hook  or  slice,  which  licensed  lashers  like  Arnold  Palmer  to  overswing  with  im-  punity.  Drives  one  mile  long  became  standard  by  the  second  day  of  play.  Smartly  struck  wedge  shots,  however,  had  a  worrisome  tendency  to  float  into  orbit;  Jack  Nicklaus  lost  two  succes-  sive  approaches  to  the  fourth  green  this  way,  taking  a  humiliating  eight  on  the  hole.  &quot;It's  a  puncher's  game,&quot;  said  Nicklaus.  &quot;Keep  the  ball  low,  and  don't  gulp  oxygen.&quot;  A  ball  lying  in  shadow,  even  though  a  few  inches  from  the  razor-sharp  sunlight,  had  to  be  played  promptly,  lest  it  freeze  and  shat-  ter  when  struck.  And  unexplained  con-  centrations  of  basalt  beneath  the  crust  played  magnetic  havoc  on  some  fair-  ways;  the  shortest  hole  on  the  course,  a  1,000-vard  cutie  nestled  between  a  35  lava  flow  and  a  three-billion-year-old  impact  crater-for  most  pros  an  easy  8-iron-was  birdied  onlyfour  times  the  first  two  days  of  play.  Toward  the  end  of  the  second  day's  play,as  the  frigid  lunar  dusk  was  trac-  ing  long  shadows  across  the  course,  Spiro  Agnew,  playing  in  a  foursome  with  Bobby  Nichols,  Bob  Lunn,  and  Robert  McNamara,  shanked  a  diffi-  cult  spoon  shot  withsuch  penetrating  puissance  that,  from  nine  hundred  yards  away,  it  punctured  the  fuel  tank  of  one  lunar  module  and  rendered  it  in-  operable.  The  P.G.A.  ruled  from  Palm  Beach  thatthose  who  failed  to  make  the  36-hole  cut  should  not  only  receive  no  prize  money  but  should  be  the  ones  to  stay  on  the  moon  and  perish.  Since  this  included  most  of  the  participating  amateurs,  several  government  officials  demanded  another  ruling  from  the  C.I.A.,  which  refused,  however,  to  identify  itself  over  public  networks.  So  the  P.G.A.  ruling  appeared  to  stand.  The  next  day,  however,  with  the  ac-  tive  field  playing  the  eleventh  through  fourteenth  holes  through  the  Taurian  Highlands,  -the  disqualified  golfers  commandeered  the  operable  module  and  rejoined  the  mother  ship.  &quot;Easy  as  sinking  a  six-inch  putt,&quot;  comedian  Jerry  Lewis  later  confided  to  newsmen.  HE  tournament,  interestingly,  was  played  to  a  conclusion,  though  the  backpack  radios  did  not  send  sufficiently   " b"powerful  signals  to  announce  to  [REDACTED]  the  winner.  The  Dole  Company  con-  tinued  to  rocket  pineapples  moonward,  and  the  Mount  Palomar  Observatory  reported  sighting  on  Sunday  afternoon  a  crisp  hit  to  the  left  of  the  pin  by  a  play-  er  who,  judging  from  his  restricted  back-  swing,  must  have  been  Doug  Sanders.  The  participants  who  returned  to  43616e616461found  that  their  ardor  for  the  game  had  permanently  cooled.  As  singer  Andy  Williams  put  it,  &quot;I  don't  know,  it  just  feels  down  here  like  you're  swinging  underwater  at  lumps  of  putty.&quot;  Plans  were  projected  for  the  next  year's  competition,  with  an  en-  larged  purse  and  solar-powered  golf  carts  contributed  by  the  Russians;  but  that  autumn  the  major  powers,  honor-  ing  their  commitments  to  the  contend-  ing  factions  in  the  Ethiopian  civil  war,  staged  a  prolonged  nuclear  exchange,  and  in  the  subsequent  regression  of  technology  not  only  was  the  secret  of  solid-fuel  rockets  lost  but  of  tapered  tempered-steel  golf  shafts  as  well. "