 THE  EGOTIST  N  the  apartment  house  where  I  lived  on  Riverside  Drive,  1  had  a  neigh-  bor  two  floors  above  me-Maria  Davidovna.  Famous  emigrants  from  [REDACTED]  visited  her-radicals,  Socialists.  She  was  tall  and  dark,  with  classical  proportions  and  gray  eyes  behind  thick-  lensed  pince-nez.  Her  hair  was  pulled  into  a  bun.  She  always  wore  dark  skirts  and  blouses  with  high  collars.  She  re-  minded  me  ofthe  revolutionary  wom-  en  of  [REDACTED]  who  lived  in  attic  rooms  and  printed  illegal  pamphlets  by  hand  or  put  together  bombs  to  throw  on  the  Czar's  henchmen.  I  made  her  ac-  quaintance  when  the  elevator  broke  down  and  I  helped  her  carry  an  old  dog-eared  527573736961n  encyclopedia  she  had  bought  on  Fourth  Avenue.  When  we  became  more  familiar,  I  gave  her  a  book  of  mine  to  read.  She  invited  me  to  come  up  to  her  place  to  play  chess,  and  every  time  we  played  she  check-  mated  me.  Slowly  her  friends  became  known  to  me,  too-especially  her  three  steady  visitors.  One  of  them  had  been  the  leader  of  a  faction  in  the  527573736961n  Duma-Popov.  He  became  a  widower  in  New  York  and  married  a  distant  relative  of  Maria  Davidovna's.  Popoy  lived  only  a  few  blocks  from  us.  His     cued  Heine  a  lease,    new  wife  was  sick,  and  Popov  used  to  buy  the  food  and  do  the  cooking.  I  met  him  many  times  in  the  super-  market,  pushing  a  cart.  He  was  short,  with  broad  shoulders  and  a  head  of  white  hair  like  foam,.  He  had  a  red  face,  a  turned-up  nose,  and  a  white  goatee.  He  always  wore  the  same  double-breasted  suit  and  shoes  with  round  toes.  His  tie  had  a  wide  knot.  It  seemed  to  me  sometimes  that  he  had  been  dressed  like  this  forty  years  ago  and  had  remained  in  the  same  clothes  and  with  the  same  expression  he  wore  in  a  picture  I  had  seen  of  him  in  a  book  about  [REDACTED],.  Each  time  we  met  he  stretched  out  his  heavy  hand  and  gave  me  a  long  grip  followed  by  a  short  one.  Since  I  knew  no  527573736961n,  he  spoke  to  me  in  broken  English.  He  had  a  reputation  in  527573736961n  politics  as  a  peacemaker  among  the  various  fac-  tions-one  who  had  averted  many  a  split  in  the  radical  movement.  The  essence  of  his  good-natured  conversa-  tion  was  that  in  spite  of  all  the  diffi-  culties  we  should  be  grateful  that  we  were  living  in  a  free  country.  The  second  visitor,  Professor  Bulov,  had  written  a  history  of  the  527573736961n  Revolution  from  the  Decembrists  up  to  Stalin.  Bulov  was  tall  and  broad- a giant  of  a  man-with  a  square  yellow-  ish  face  and  the  slanted  eyes  of  a  Mongol.  He  seldom  spoke;  he  just  shook  his  head.  Maria  Davidovna  told  me  he  came  from  somewhere  in  the  north  of  [REDACTED]  and  that  when  he  was  young  heused  to  hunt  bears  with  a  cudgel.  Later,  he  sat  for  years  in  soli-  tary  confinement  in  a  527573736961n  prison,  and  it  was  this  that  had  made  him  so  silent.  He  had  a  flattened  nose,  a  low  forehead,  thick  lips,  a  shock  of  hair  like  a  brush.  He  hated  the  [REDACTED]  with  a  passion  that  seemed  to  glow  in  his  steely  eyes.  I  imagined  he  held  grudges  that  went  back  to  the  time  of  Genghis  Khan.  Maria  Davidovna  said  that  Bulov  could  never  forgive  Popov  for  opposing  the  arrest  of  Lenin.  I  was  told  that  he  had  managed  to  escape  [REDACTED]  after  killing  a  G.P.U.  man.  Whenever  he  spoke  about  present-day  [REDACTED],  he  planted  his  fist  on  the  table,  and  I  always  felt  that  the  table  could  barely  stand  the  pressure  of  that  power-  ful  fist  and  might  collapse.  Kuzensky  was  the  third  visitor.  He  had  beenborn  a  count.  He  entered  the  revolutionary  movement  when  he  was  still  young  and  played  an  important  role  in  the  nine  months  of  Kerenski's  regime.  Kuzensky  was  tall,  lean,  with  a  high  forehead  and  a  pointed  beard  that  remained  black  although  he  was  al-  ready  in  his  sixties.  He  had  brown  eyes  that  often  smiled  with  a  worldly-wise  humor.  Kuzensky  was  known  as  a  skeptic,  a  humorist,  a  ladies'  man.  He  dressed  more  elegantly  than  the  other  527573736961ns  who  visited  Maria  Davidovna,  and  wore  spats  summer  and  winter.  I  once  saw  Maria  Davidovna  ironing  a  silk  shirt  for  him.  A  writer  who  knew  this  group  told  me  that  Kuzensky  had  the  soul  of  a  feuilletonist-not  thatof  a  fighter.  His  jokes  made  the  others  un-  comfortable.  Kuzensky  and  I  had  one  thing  in  common:  when  he  played  chess  with  Maria  Davidovna,  she  in-  variably  checkmated  him.  Sometimes  he  and  I  played  together  against  her.  Kuzensky  smoked  a  cigarette,  hummed  a  527573736961n  melody,  ate  the  chick-peas  and  halvah  that  Maria  Davidovna  placed  before  us,  drank  many  glasses  of  tea  with  lemon,  and  made  one  wrong  move  after  another,  all  the  while  throwing  out  witticisms.  Near  him  I  became  even  more  of  a  botcher  at  the  game.  When  finally  we  were  checkmated,  Kuzensky  would  say,  &quot;Don't  worry,  comrade,  the  final  victory  is  on  our  side.  The  day  of  vengeance  is  near.&quot;  And  he  would  wink  at  Professor  Bulovy  and  make  funny  grimaces.  It  was  a  parody  of  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Bulov's  faith  that  any  day  there  would  be  a  counter-revolution  in  Soviet  [REDACTED].  Kuzensky  and  Bu-  lov  were  both  bache-  lors.  From  remarks  that  Maria  Davidovna  let  fall  and  from  in-  scriptions  on  books  that  Kuzensky  had  given  her  on  birthdays,  I  guessed  that  he  had  been  in  love  with  her.  As  for  Bulov,he  seemed  to  be  enamored  of  her.  He  gazed  at  her  avidly  with  his  slanted  eyes,  under  which  were  heavy  pouches.  He  listened  to  every  sound  she  made  when  she  was  in  the  kitchen  preparing  tea.  Maria  Davidovna  as-  sisted  him  in  gather-  ing  material  for  his  lengthy  book.  One  thing  I  knew  for  sure-  he  never  spent  the  night  in  her  apartment.  I  sometimes  met  him  going  down  in  the  ele-  vator  at  two  o'clock  in  the  morning.  Then  he  looked  especially  an-  gry;he  had  a  crooked  wrinkle  on  his  forehead  and  didn't  answer  when  I  greeted  him.  His  wide  face  with  the  high  cheekbones  had  agreenishhue.  I  believed  that  Bulovy  was  constantly  jealous,  that  he  suspected  every  man  of  havingan  affair  with  Maria  David-  ovna  and  could  barely  curb  his  rage,  which  threatened  to  break  out  at  any  moment  with  527573736961n  ferocity.  Sometimes  Maria  Davidovna  in-  vited  me  to  her  apartment  when  there  wereno  other  guests.  After  I  had  been  checkmated,  we  drank  tea  with  jam  and  conversed  about  Zionism,  the  Talmud,  Yiddish  literature.  Since  we  both  spoke  in  a  language  foreign  to  us,  our  conversations  could  not  go  very  deep.  Maria  Davidovna  had  studied  and  read  a  lot  and  knew  527573736961n  and  French  literature,  but  she  had  the  mind  of  a  social  theoretician,.  She  tried  to  find  logic  in  everything.  There  re-  mained  in  her  a  youthful  rawness  that  the  years  did  not  ripen.  She  was  some-  how  still  a  student  at  the  G@ymnasium-  a  barishnia  ofthe  days  before  the  First  World  War.  I  was  sure  that  she  kept  a  diary.  She  had  brought  out  of  [REDACTED]  a  thick  album  of  faded  photographs  showing  her  with  countless  university  students,  girl  friends,  cousins.  Most  of  the  young  men  had  beards;  many  of  them  wore  black  blouses  with  tasselled  sashes.  I  often  browsed  among  these  photographs  and  asked  Maria  Davidov-  na  about  them.  She  would  stare  with  shortsighted  eyes,  as  if  she  herself  were  not  sure  anymore  who  was  who,  and  she  would  finally  say,  &quot;Fallen  in  the  War.&quot;  &quot;Shot  by  the  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;Died  of  typhoid  fever.&quot;  I  tried  to  question  her  about  her  friendship  with  Kuzensky  and  Bulov,  but  she  answered  evasively.  Still,  I  learned  some  details.  Maria  Davidovna  was  the  daughter  of  a  rich  lumber  merchant.  She  had  graduated  from  the  Gymnasium  in  Kicy  with  a  gold  medal.  While  she  was  in  the  seventh  class,  she  had  entered  a  revolutionary  group.  The  short  term  of  Kerenski's  regime  was  a  period  of  personal  triumph  for  her.  She  was  close  to  all  the  Menshe-  vik  leaders;  they  entrusted  her  with  important  government  missions.  Every  day  of  the  year  was  full  of  surprises.  That  was  a  year  without  a  winter,  be-  cause  the  Revolution  began  in  the  spring  and  ended  in  the  fall,  when  the  Communists  took  over.  Since  then,  Maria  Davidovna  had  lived  in  a  kind  of  prolonged  mourning.  She  escaped  from  [REDACTED],  resided  briefly  in  War-  saw,  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED],  and  could  settle  nowhere.  She  studied  in  a  number  of  universities  without  ever  completing  any  course.  She  had  been  in  New  York  foryears,  but  she  could  not  stand  this  prosaic  city  with  its  noise,  hurry,  dirt,  and  greed  for  money.  She  contended  that  there  was  not  a  single  beautiful  building  in  New  York,  not  one  gemiitlich  restaurant  or  caf\xc3\xa9,  and  that,  in  spite  of  all  its  electric  lamps,  at  night  the  city  was  as  dark  as  a  jungle.  The  subway  was  a  nightmare  to  her.  Once,  unexpectedly,  Maria  David-  ovna  opened  her  heart  to  me.  I  had  told  her  that  she  was  actually  a  world-  ly  nun  in  aprivate  cloister.  When  she  heard  these  words,  she  took  off  her  pince-nez  and  her  face  became  naked  and  gricf-stricken.  On  both  sides  of  her  nose  where  the  pince-nez  rested  were  indentations,  deep  and  bluish.  She  raised  her  reddened  lids  and  asked,  &quot;Have  you  ever  seen  a  living  corpse?&quot;  I  don't  mean  it  figuratively  but  liter-  ally.&quot;  &quot;Literally,  not.&quot;  &quot;Since  you  write  about  ghosts  and  " b"34  such  topics,  I  want  you  to  know  that  you  are  in  the  presence  of  a  living  corpse.&quot;  &quot;When  did  you  die?&quot;  &quot;After  the  Bolshevik  Revolution.&quot;  (KH0W?\xe2\x80\x997  &quot;Oh,  there  is  too  much  to  be  said.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  was  dead  even  when  I  was  young.  I  demanded  too  much  from  life,  and  those  who  demand  too  much  get  nothing.  My  father  was  seldom  home.  I  don't  know  why  he  avoided  my  mother.  She  was  a  beauti-  ful  woman,  although  melancholy.  She  died  when  I  was  still  in  the  Gymnasi-  um.  I  was  their  only  daughter.  Every  day  when  I  took  my  schoolbag  and  went  to  school,  I  asked  myself,  'What  am  I  living  for?  What  is  the  sense  of  it?'  This  wasn't  just  caprice.  I  always  had  a  strong  desire  to  dic.  I  envied  the  dead.  I  used  to  go  to  the  Greek  Ortho-  dox  cemetery  and  stand  for  hours  gazing  at  the  photographs  on  the  head-  stones.  The  February  Revolution  pulled  me  away  from  death.  It  intoxi-  cated  me.  But  I  knew  even  then  that  such  intoxication  could  not  last.  Keren-  ski's  regime  had  all  the  symptoms  of  inebriation-a  kind  of  carnival  that  was  bound  to  end  soon.  Bolshevism  was  the  bitter  hangover  that  comes  after-  I  am  sorry.  ...&quot;  For  a  while  we  were  both  silent.  Then  I  asked,  &quot;What  kind  of  a  man  is  Kuzensky?&quot;  &quot;An  egotist-the  greatest  egotist  I  ever  met.  He  has  hidden  from  reality  his  whole  life.  All  that  remains  ofthat  carnival  is  a  heap  of  rubbish,  but  for  him  it  is  still  a  holiday-the  private  holiday  of  a  hedonist.  Please,  don't  ask  me  any  more.  I  have  said  too  much  as  it  is.&quot;  And  Maria  Davidovna  put  on  her  pince-nez  again,  I  BEGAN  to  realize  that  Kuzensky  was  not  well.  His  face  had  become  yellowish,  his  cheeks  sunken.  When  he  lit  a  cigarette,  the  match  trembled  be-  tween  his  long  fingers.  One  evening  when  Kuzensky  was  visiting  Maria  Davidovna,  Popov  brought  a  pitcher  of  borscht  that  he  had  cooked  himself.  Kuzensky  took  only  one  spoonful.  Popov  said,  &quot;This  borscht  is  a  reme-  dy.  It  is  cooked  with  lemon,  not  with  sour  salt.&quot;  &quot;Well,  the  world  knows  you  are  a  first-class  cook-after  the  mess  you  cooked  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  Kuzensky  continued  to  make  jokes,  but  everything  else  changed.  When  I  played  chess  with  Maria  Davidovna,  he  no  longer  gave  me  advice.  He  even  stopped  humming  his  usual  melody.  Every  few  minutes  he  went  to  the  bathroom  and  returned  with  shaky  legs.  His  beard  became  white  and  I  sus-  pected  that  he  had  dyed  it  before.  I  was  told  that  he  was  writing  his  mem-  oirs,  that  he  had  a  subsidy  from  a  foundation.  In  Maria  Davidovna's  booksabout  [REDACTED],  photographs  of  Kuzensky  could  be  found  :  as  a  Gymnasiast,  a  university  student,  a  revolutionary,  a  political  prisoner  in  exile,  a  speechmaker  at  a  mass  meeting  in  Petrograd.  He  was  a  part  of  the  history  of  [REDACTED],  and  there-  fore  also  of  world  history.  But  here  he  was,  lying  on  Maria  Davidovna's  sofa,  coughing  into  a  handkerchief,  dozing  frequently,  with  Maria  Davidovna  chiding  him  for  not  keeping  his  diet,  for  being  afraid  to  go  to  a  doctor  or  the  hospital.  Maria  Davidovna's  words  that  she  was  a  living  corpse  had  impressed  me  more  than  such  phrases  should.  I  began  to  imagine  that  there  was  the  sweetish  smell  of  decay  in  the  apart-  ment.  Though  all  her  lamps  burned  in  the  evening,  the  rooms  remained  in  shadow,  perhaps  because  every  wall  had  bookshelves  up  to  the  ceiling.  Each     Dickey  time  I  took  out  a  book,  pieces  of  dry  paper  broke  off  from  the  pages.  I  also  noticed  that  Bulovy  and  Kuzensky  spoke  to  Maria  Davidovna  but  not  to  each  other.  They  even  avoided  looking  at  one  another.  Had  they  quarrelled,  or  was  it  just  that  they  had  nothing  more  to  say  to  each  other?  I  developed  a  fear  of  Bulov.  Sometimes  when  he  sat  in  silence  with  his  two  slanted  cracks  for  eyes,  I  felt  that  he  was  still  in  the  forests  of  [REDACTED]-a  prehistoric  man  who  by  a  caprice  of  nature  had  fallen  into  the  twentieth  century  and  become  a  professor.  I  stopped  visiting  Maria  Davidovna.  One  evening,  I  was  sitting  in  my  room  reading  a  newspaper  when  some-  one  knocked  at  my  door.  As  a  rule,  only  the  exterminator  knocked  at  my  door  unannounced.  However,  he  al-  ways  came  in  the  daytime.  I  went  to  the  foyer  and  asked,  &quot;Who  is  there?&quot;  &quot;I,  Maria  Davidovna.&quot;  I  recognized  her  voice,  but  it  was  half  choked.  I  let  her  in.  Maria  Davidovyna  stood  there  without  her  pince-nez,  her  face  pale  and  changed.  She  said,  &quot;Please  forgive  me  for  disturbing  you,  but  something  terrible  has  happened  and  I  don't  know  whom  to  turn  to.  Kuzensky  just  died.&quot;  &quot;Died!  How?  Where?&quot;  &quot;In  my  apartment.  I  telephoned,  but  no  one  is  home-neither  Bulov  nor  Popov.  Or  maybe  I  didn't  dial  " b" correctly-I've  lost  my  glasses  and  I  simply  cannot  see.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  call  the  doctor?&quot;  &quot;He  never  would  go  to  a  doctor.  Have  pity  and  come  up  with  me.  With-  out  my  glasses  I'm  blind.&quot;  I  was  overcome  by  a  boyish  fear,  but  I  could  not  refuse  Maria  Davidovna  and  leave  her  alone  with  a  corpse,  We  did  not  use  the  elevator  but  climbed  the  stairs  in  silence.  Maria  Davidovna  held  on  to  my  arm.  We  passed  through  the  long  hall  of  her  apartment,  through  the  living  room,  and  entered  the  bed-  room.  On  Maria  Davidovna's  wide  bed  lay  Kuzensky  in  his  suit,  his  bow  tie,  his  shoes  with  spats.  I  barely  recog-  nized  him.  His  straight  nose  had  be-  come  hooked,  his  skin  a  deep  yellow,  his  white  beard  turned  up  and  shrunk  en.  In  thecreasesatthe  corners  of  his  eyes  there  remained  a  congealed  smile.  After  some  hesitation,  Maria  David-  ovna  asked,  &quot;Do  you  think  I  should  call  the  police?&quot;  &quot;The  police?  Why?  Perhaps  you  should  call  the  527573736961n  newspaper.&quot;  &quot;No  one  is  there  at  night.  In  my  ex-  citement  I  dropped  my  glasses.  It's  a  miracle  I  managed  to  find  your  door.  With  him,  my  life  is  ended.&quot;  Her  tone  changed.  &quot;Do  you  think  you  could  find  my  glasses?&quot;  I  searched  on  the  floor,  on  the  night  table,  on  the  chest,  but  Maria  Davidov-  na's  pince-nez  were  nowhere  to  be  seen.  I  said,  &quot;Perhaps  you  should  call  the  English  newspapers.&quot;  &quot;They  will  ask  for  details,  and  I  am  too  confused  to  remember  anything  now.  The  telephone  is  ringing-wait!&quot;  Maria  Davidovna  left  the  bedroom.  I  had  an  impulse  to  follow,  but  I  was  ashamed  to  show  suchcowardice.  I  stood  staring  at  Kuzensky  ;  my  heart  pounded  like  a  hammer.  Alive,  Kuzen-  sky  had  not  looked  old  even  with  his  white  beard.  Now  he  was  like  a  man  of  ninety.  His  mouth  was  small,  half  open  and  toothless.  On  the  rug  I  saw  his  false  teeth,  strangely  long,  on  a  plastic  palate.  With  the  point  of  my  shoe  I  shoved  them  under  the  bed.  Maria  Davidovna  returned.  &quot;Cra-     zy-I  was  just  told  I  had  won  two  free  lessons  ata  dance  studio.  What  shall  I  do;  *  &quot;If  you  can  remember  the  numbers,  I  will  call  Popov  and  Bulov.&quot;  &quot;'They're  definitely  not  at  home.  Bulov  is  supposed  to  be  here  soon-any  minute.  We  were  drinking  tea  and  playing  chess.  Suddenly  he  collapsed  on  the  bed  and  was  finished.&quot;  &quot;A  merciful  end.&quot;  &quot;He  lived  like  an  egotist  and  now  he  has  deserted  us  like  an  egotist.  What  shall  I  do?  Every  second  will  be  hell.  Please  sit  down.&quot;  I  sat  on  a  chair,  Maria  Davidovna  on  another.  I  arranged  myself  in  a  po-  sition  not  to  see  the  corpse.  Maria  Da-  vidovna  clasped  her  hands.  She  spoke  in  a  singsong  that  reminded  me  of  the  keening  of  mothers  and  grandmothers.  &quot;It  was  all  selfishness.  His  going  to  the  people,  his  imprisonment-all  of  it.  He  was  a  squire  to  the  last  second  of  his  life.  He  never  gave  anything  that  wasn't  an  alm-even  his  love.  He  was  too  proud  to  see  a  doctor,  As  for  me,  I     " b" wasted  my  years  for  nothing.  I  forgot  that  I  was  a  Jewish  daughter.  The  oth-  er  day  I  read  in  my  Bible  about  the  Is-  raelites  serving  idols.  I  said  to  myself,  'My  idol  was  the  Revolution,  and  therefore  I  am  punished  by  God.  &quot;  &quot;It  is  good  that  you  understand  it  now.&quot;  &quot;It  is  too  late.  He  went  when  it  was  convenient  for  him,  and  left  me  to  die  a  thousand  deaths.  Once,  they  put  all  their  hopes  in  the  Revolution,  For  the  last  thirty  years  they  have  been  yearn-  ing  for  the  counter-revolution.  But  what  difference  will  it  make?  They  are  all  old  and  sick.  The  new  generation  will  not  know  the  truth.  The  only  am-  bition  left  to  them  is  to  prolong  the  agony.  He,  at  least,  admitted  it.&quot;  The  telephone  rang.  This  time  it  was  Popov.  I  heard  Maria  Davidovna  telling  him  the  news.  She  kept  repeat-  ing,  &quot;Da,  da,  da.&quot;  It  didn't  take  long  for  Popov  and  Buloy  to  arrive,  and  others  followed-  some  with  white  beards,  some  with  white  mustaches.  One  old  man  leaned  on  crutches.  Popov's  suit  was  spotted;  his  cheeks  were  flushed,  as  though  he  had  just  left  a  hot  stove.  His  childish  eyes  under  his  shaggy  brows  were  re-  proachful.  &quot;See  what  he  has  done  to  us!&quot;  they  seemed  to  be  saying.  Bulov  took  the  corpse's  wrist  and  felt  for  a  pulse.  He  made  a  face,  shook  his  square  head  from  side  to  side,  and  his  eyes  were  saying,  &quot;This  is  against  all  rules,  Count.  This  is  not  the  way  to  behave.&quot;  Skillfully,  he  closed  the  corpse's  mouth.  Women  began  to  arrive,  in  long,  old-fashioned  dresses  and  low-heeled  shoes,  their  sparse  hair  gathered  into  buns  and  fastened  with  hairpins.  One  of  them  wore  a  Turkish  shawl  over  her  shoulders-the  kind  my  grandmother  used  to  wear.  In  [REDACTED]  I  had  for-  gotten  that  such  wrinkled  faces  and  bent  backs  existed,  One  old  woman  carried  two  canes.  She  took  a  step  and  I  heard  the  crunch  of  glass.  She  had  stepped  on  Maria  Davidovna's  pince-  nez.  Her  hairy  little  chin  shook  as  though  she  were  muttering  an  incanta-  tion.  I  recognized  her  from  a  picture  I  had  seen  in  a  book.  She  had  been  an  ex-  pert  bombmaker  and  had  been  kept  in  solitary  confinement  in  the  infamous  Schlisselburg  prison.  I  wanted  to  leave,  but  Maria  Da-  vidovna  asked  me  to  stay.  She  kept  on  introducing  me  to  new  visitors,  and  I  heard  names  familiar  to  me  from  books,  magazines,  newspapers:  leaders  of  the  Revolution,  ofthe  Duma;  mem-  bersof  Kerenski's  Cabinet.  Every  one  of  them  had  made  historic  speeches,  taken  part  in  decisive  con-  ferences.  Though  I  knew  Polish,  not  527573736961n,  I  could  follow  what  they  were  saying.  The  old  woman  with  the  canes  asked,  &quot;Should  we  light  candles?&quot;  &quot;Candles?  No,&quot;  Popov  said.  The  one  in  the  Turk-  ish  shawl  cracked  her  rheumatic  fingers.  &quot;He  is  beautiful  even  now.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  he  should  be  covered,&quot;  said  the  old  man  on  crutches.  &quot;Who  can  take  his  place?&quot;  Popov  asked,  and  then  answered  himself,  &quot;No  one.&quot;  His  face  be-  came  apoplectic  red,  and  because  of  this  his  beard  appeared  even  whiter.  He  mumbled,  &quot;We  are  pass-  ing  away;  soon  no  one  will  be  left;  Eternity  claims  us-the  great  mys-  tery.  [REDACTED]  will  forget  us.&quot;  &quot;Sergei  Ivanovich,  don't  exaggerate.&quot;  &quot;It  is  written  in  the  Bi-  ble,  'One  generation  passeth  away  and  another  generation  cometh.&quot;  Only  yesterday  he  was  young  and  daring-an  eagle.&quot;  One  of  the  group,  small,  slight,  with  a  pointed  pepper-and-salt  beard,  wear-  ing  thick  glasses  behind  which  his  eyes  looked  crossed,  began  to  deliver  a  sort  of  eulogy.  &quot;He  lived  for  [REDACTED]  and  he  died  for  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  said.  Maria  Davidovna  interrupted.  &quot;He  lived  for  no  one  but  himself.  The  world  will  never  know  how  great  his  egotism  was-never,  never!&quot;  There  was  silence.  The  telephone  rang,  but  nobody  answered  it.  They  all  looked  perplexed,  grieved,  full  of  re-  proach,  full  of  forgiveness.  The  wrin-  kles  at  the  corners  of  Kuzensky's  eyes  seemed  to  laugh.  Maria  Davidovna  covered  her  face  with  both  hands  and  began  to  cry  in  a  hoarse  voice.  "