 HOW  ARE  THE  LEGS,  SAMYQ  ATCH  the  pitch.  Say  to  your-  self,  &quot;This  baby's  mine.&quot;  At  the  crack  of  the  bat,  get  your-  self  moving.  This  is  called  &quot;getting  the  good  jump.&quot;  If  it  looks  like  yours,  try  to  get  there  ahead  of  it.  Spread  your  arms  to  give  yourself  balance,  and  position  yourself  so  the  ball  will  hit  you  on  the  chest  if  you  miss  it.  Auto-  matically,  your  hands  will  make  the  catch.  Above  all,  get  the  good  jump.  G  AB  Ho  E  BA  1965  1  4  20  1.500  1966  1  5  2  1  400  1967  Inactive  1968  Inactive  1969  Inactive  1970  Inactive  Lifetime  totals:  Not  available  Let's  talk  about  legs.  It  isn't  hu-  man  nature  to  play  ball.  The  natural  man  doesn't  stand  under  or  in  front  of  fast-moving,  hard  objects.  There-  fore,  his  legs  must  not  only  be  strong  enough  to  get  him  there,  the  legs  must  want  to  go.  This  is  my  big  problem.  I  tend  to  back  away  from  fly  balls.  Even  when  I  played  work-up  as  a  kid,  I  always  backed  off  and  took  flies  on  the  bounce.  I  hated  to  look  bad  drop-  ping  a  high  one.  It  was  my  dad  who  made  me  face  up  to  the  game.  He  took  me  over  to  Strub's  parking  lot  and  hit  high  ones  until  the  street  lights  came  on.  He  used  two  balls,  so  I  couldn't  loaf  on  the  return  throw.  My  dad  also  taught  me  to  throw  from  the  shoulder-a  smooth,  unex-  aggerated  motion,  with  a  snap  of  the  wrist  to  put  the  heat  on  the  ball.  I  say  you  can  tell  something  about  a  man's  character  from  his  throwing  motion,  and  I  appreciate  all  my  dad  did  to  make  an  honest  man  of  me.  I  throw  well  today,  years  later,  but  I'm  still  shy  around  a  pop  fly  and  wish  it  were  hit  to  somebody  else,  I  lose  my  nerve  at  the  last  minute  (&quot;You've  got  it!&quot;),  and  this  is  my  big  fault.  I'm  working  on  it.  I  dropped  one  in  1965.  A  family  picnic  game.  I'm  playing  first  (I  asked  to),  their  last  ups,  with  our  side  ahead  by  2-1,  and  my  cousin  Eddy  comes  up  and  takes  a  wild  cut  at  a  soft  outside  spinner  and  lofts  a  pop-up  eighty  feet  high-a  short  run  to  my  left,  foul.  I  moved  over  to  catch  it,  but  only  medium  quickly-  understand?  I  pulled  back  from  it  and  it  fell  off  the  tip  of  my  glove.  &quot;It's  O.K.  We'll  get  R  M  I  T  this  clown!&quot;  my  dad  yelled.  He  knew  how  much  I  hated  myself  right  then.  Z  could  have  had  1.  ONE  day  the  next  summer,  I  was  riding  my  bike  around  the  lake  when  I  heard  a  man  shouting  at  me.  An  Indian  fellow  about  forty  wearing  a  purple  softball  uniform  came  chug-  ging  up  alongside.  &quot;You  play  ball?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  need  one  more  guy.&quot;  I  said  I  didn't  have  a  glove.  &quot;We  got  extras,&quot;  he  said.  It's  in  the  rulebook  of  everyday,  I  guess,  that  you're  allowed  to  say  no  just  once  in  a  situation  like  that,  so  I  followed  him  back  over  the  hill  to  the  softball  field.  I  pulled  on  a  purple  shirt  and  trotted  out  to  center,  where  the  Indian  wanted  me.  The  whole  team  was  Indians,  from  the  South  Side  A.C.  The  other  team  was  from  the  Sheet  Metal  Workers.  I  didn't  know  them.  No  warmup,  so  I'm  standing  there  stiff  as  a  post  when  the  first  man  up  smacks  a  line  drivethat  parked  in  my  mitt  with-  out  me  moving  a  step.  I  whipped  it  back  to  the  second  baseman,  who  gave  me  a  big  cheer.  In  one  minute,  I'm  in  the  game  and  already  have  some  credit  with  the  Indians,  who  look  to  be  bent  on  playing  1.000  for  the  season.  Nothing  more  that  inning  or  the  next,  but  I'm  feeling  easy  out  there.  Our  diamond  was  one  of  four  that  faced  in  toward  the  central  point  where  I  was  standing,  and  I  could've  played  center  field  in  four  games  at  once  and  liked  it.  At  this  central  point  there  was  an  iron  storm-sewer  grate.  It  was  no  more  than  a  low  hump  in  the  grass,  but  I  began  to  think  about  tripping  over  it,  so  in  the  third  inning  I  backed  up  and  stood  on  top  of  it-understand?  The  old  shy  trick.  So  I  was  playing  too  deep  for  a  low  line  drive  in  the  fourth  that  drove  in  two  runs.  I  ran  right  by  it  and  had  to  turn  around  and  chase  it  down.  I  heaved  the  ball  back  to  second  so  hard  my  fingertips  stung.  I  wanted  to  bite  off  my  hand.  I'd  been  thinking  I  wanted  to  play  ball,  but  I'd  been  fooling  myself.  A  fellow  can  fake  everybody  into  thinking  he's  hustling  when  he's  not  even  iz  the  game.  Here  I  was,  getting  fat  off  the  fat  of  the     fattest  land  in  the  world,  and  I  wouldn't  even  put  out  for  these  Indians  who  took  me  on  their  team.  Eight  other  guys  straining  every  nerve,  and  the  ball  is  hit  to  me,  the  sewer  lounger.  I'm  glad  to  say  I  got  another  chance.  Seventh  inning,  we  got  the  game  salted  away  12-3,  and  here  comes  a  pop  fly  that  doesn't  hang  like  it  should  but  drops  like  a  bomb  into  the  space  be-  tween  me  and  thekid  in  right  field,  where  I  snagged  it  three  (two)  feet  off  the  ground,  getting  the  good  jump  and  going  for  it  as  if  I'm  either  going  to  bury  myself  nose  first  in  the  prairie  or  else  make  the  amazing  grab  I  did  make,  and  off-balance  get  off  a  hard  submarine  peg  that  almost  caught  the  runner  leaning  off  third.  HAT  was  my  last  ballgame-  maybe  the  last  of  my  life.  For  four  years,  I've  thought  of  myself  as  a  ball-  player  on  the  strength  of  that  one  game  I  stumbled  into  and  trotted  away  from  feeling  very  good  about  myself.  I've  tried  to  get  back.  Wherever  I  go,  I  talk  up  a  game  and  sometimes  recruit  almost  enough  people  to  play.  A  couple  times  they  didn't  show,  and  other  times  I  dropped  out  knowing  that  the  other  guys  were  fun  players  and  didn't  want  to  get  grass  stains  on  their  knees  stretching  for  the  big  play.  For-  get  it.  I'd  like  to  think  I  could  make  that  1966  catch  again,  but  I  know  I  couldn't.  More  and  more  this  winter,  my  thoughts  are  with  that  old  ball-  player-you  know  his  name.  Fifteen  years  in  the  majors  and  a  great  com-  petitor,  almost  never  a  game  he  didn't  make  aplay  that  made  you  feel  faint.  But  this  winter  his  friends  are  saying,  &quot;You're  looking  great,  Sam.&quot;  They  didn't  used  to  say  this.  He's  worried  about  himself,  thinking  ahead  to  spring  training,  thinking,  I  got  to  start  slow,  build,  can't  rush  it.  But  they  don't  pay  you  for  not  rushing  it.  He  remembers  last  spring-how  after  four  weeks  in  uniform  his  body  still  wasn't  interested  in  running.  Go-  ing  for  the  long  ball,  he  had  to  send  him-  self  on  ahead  and  then  sort  of  throw  back  a  rope  and  pull  his  old  body  to  the  spot.  Late  in  the  spring,  he  came  loose  in  the  knees;  he  had  an  opera-  tion  in  June  and  was  out  for  the  season.  In  the  papers,  the  manager  said  how  much  they'd  miss  old  Sam  and  how  he'd  be  back  for  sure  next  year,  but  over  a  drink  he  of-  fered  him  a  job  as  a  scout.  He's  thinking  it  " b"over.  As  a  scout,  he'd  still  get  to  ridein  first  class,  with  lots  of  legroom  and  a  stewardess  right  there;  if  you  needed  a  drink,  she  could  get  to  you  quick.  But  nobody  looks  at  scouts.  The  only  reason  people  have  looked  at  him-studied  him-for  all  these  years  is  because  he  played  good  ball.  He  liked  it,  and  every  time  he  turned  on  the  steam  back  came  the  news  he  was  good,  as  strong  and  quick  as  he  ever  was  or  would  be.  I  need  to  get  back  in  shape.  Without  a  serious  game  to  push  myself  for,  my  body  is  getting  numb  at  the  ends.  I  work  all  day  at  a  desk  in  a  low  room.  When  I  get  home  and  put  my  legs  up  on  the  hassock,  I  look  at  them  and  think,  Well,  there  are  my  legs,  I  wonder  how  they're  getting  along  nowadays,  I  mean  to  run  some  this  winter,  and  with  a  little  work  perhaps  the  legs  will  come  around  and  I  will  be  in  fine  shape  in  the  spring. "