HOY  NOW?  OO  many  urban  Americans  are  ill  at  ease  with  cows.  No  matter  how  much  milk,  butter,  cheese,  or  sirloin  they  may  put  away  during  the  average  work  week,  their  gnaw-  ing  sense  of  alienation  bars  them  from  a  really  satisfying  relationship  with  the  source  of  these  gifts.  Confronted  with  the  &quot;real  thing&quot;  in  a  pasture  on  coun-  try  weekends,  they  fall  prey  to  name-  less  anxieties.  Nine  times  out  of  ten  the  basic  problem  is  ignorance;  the  im-  portant  facts  about  cows  cannot  be  found  in  Sunday  supplements  or  mealy-  mouthed  animal-husbandry  tracts,  and  most  dairy  farmers  hesitate  to  reveal  them.Here,  then,  frankly  and  fearless-  ly,  are  the  straight  answers  to  those  &quot;difficult&quot;  bovine  questions:  Q.  How  big  is  the  normal  cow?  A.  The  question  of  the  acon!  No  matter  how  successful  she  may  be  oth-  erwise,  Bossy  is  forever  checking  her  own  dimensions  and  wondering  nerv-  ously  whether  she  &quot;measures  up,&quot;  and  the  funny  thing  is  she's  never  satisfied.  It's  a  bit  like  the  remark  that  Zebulon  Pike  made  when  one  of  his  grandchil-  dren  asked  him  to  name  the  highest  peak  in  North  America.  Fixing  the  pesky  young  varmint  with  his  gimlet  eye,  Old  Zeb  replied,  as  only  he  could,  &quot;Mount  McKinley.&quot;  Q.Are  today's  cows  the  biggest  ever?  A.  No.  The  twentieth-century  bo-  vine  doesn't  hold  a  candle  to  his  pre-  historic  ancestor,  the  aurochs,  who  stood  six  feet  high  at  the  brisket,  had  a  horn  spread  of  eight  feet,  and  could  hold  eye-to-eye  confrontations  with  Neolithic  neighbors  like  the  Woolly  Rhinoceros,  the  Lurid  Mammoth,  and  the  Hippocratic  Oath.  Today's  Angus  and  Dotted  Swiss  may  be  fatter,  but  the  era  of  really  outstanding  cow  physiques  is  past.  Q.  Is  it  true  that  people  used  to  worship  cows?  A.  Yes,  indeed.  The  ancient  Egyp-  tians  went  in  heavily  for  cow  worship,  and  got  good  value  from  it.  Their  top  god,  Osiris,  was  supposedly  born  of  a  cow  impregnated  either  by  a  stroke  of  lightning  or  by  the  divine  influence  of  moonlight,  he  could  never  remember  which.  Osiris  was  worshipped  at  Mem-  phis  in  the  form  of  a  sacred  bull  named  Apis,  who  lived  in  a  marble  palace  surrounded  by  parks,  ate  flour  cakes  and  honey,  bathed  twice  daily,  and  maintained  a  harem  of  sensuous  cows.  Each  sacred  bull  enjoyed  a  term  of  twenty-five  years.  If  he  was  still  alive  after  twenty-five  years,  the  priests  drowned  him  in  a  sacred  spring,  but  the  experience  was  thought  to  be  worth  it.  Hathor,  the  Egyptian  sky  goddess,  was  also  represented  as  a  cow;  unfor-  tunately,  she  engaged  in  some  salacious  romps  with  the  man  in  the  moon,  which  were  slyly  memorialized  in  the  nursery  rhyme  a  clef  &quot;High  Diddle  Diddle.&quot;  Cows  figure  prominently  in  Greek  theological  circles,  too.  Both  Zeus  and  Dionysus  liked  to  go  around  dressed  in  bull  suits,  much  to  the  em-  barrassment  of  their  acolytes.  The  Ro-  mans,  on  the  other  hand,  whose  word  for  cattle  (&quot;pecus&quot;)  had  the  same  root  astheir  word  for  money  (&quot;pecumic'),  saw  only  the  materialistic  side  of  the  bovine  nature,  and  habitually  scoffed  at  their  cows'  spiritual  pretensions.  A  Roman  cownamed  Sophia  neverthe-  less  foretold  the  destruction  of  Pom-  pei.  Another  prophesied  both  the  Bat-  tle  of  Pharsalia  and  the  assassination  of  Julius  Caesar,  but  everyone  thought  she  was  kidding.  In  modern  times,  Phil  Rizzuto,  the  baseball  announcer,  evokes  echoes  of  the  old  reverence  by  frequently  exclaiming  &quot;Holy  cow!&quot;  True  cattle  worship,  however,  is  preva-  lent  today  only  in  496e646961-but  then  what  isn't?  Q.  How  do  cows  reproduce?  A.  About  time  we  got  to  that  one.  'There  are  heaps  of  books  on  this  subject,  all  terrible.  Half  of  them  make  it  sound  dull  and  mechanical,  while  the  other  half  keep  lapsing  into  verse.  Personally,  I  think  we're  ma-  ture  enough  to  talk  openly  and  hon-  estly  about  Reprocow,  as  modern  vets  call  it.  After  all,  it's  an  absolutely  normal  and  natural  part  of  the  bovine     experience,  so  why  should  anybody  feel  embarrassed?  Cows  reproduce  by  having  little  cows,  which  are  called  calves.  Q.  Then  what  happens?  A.  The  boy  calves  become  dogies,  then  critters,  and  finally,  if  they  have  any  luck,  bulls.  The  girl  calves  become  heifers,  and  at  the  age  of  two  years  they  &quot;come  out&quot;  as  cows.  Q.  How  do  you  tell  bulls  and  cows  apart?  A.  Cows  are  softer.  Q.  What  are  the  figures  on  cow  promiscuity?  A.  Fantastic!  Why,  there's  hardly  an  even-toed  ungulate  on  earth  that  a  sexually  active  cow  won't  mate  with  if  they  can  get  a  little  privacy,  and  this  includes  zebus,  yaks,  gaurs,  gayals,  bantengs,  and  other  schismatic  Eastern  sects.  The  sole  exception  is  the  buffalo,  a  fundamentalist  whose  rigid  apartheid  policy  where  other  ungulates  are  con-  cerned  has  so  distressed  the  Davis  Cup  Committee.  Q.  Where  do  oxen  fit  in?  A.  Let's  get  our  terminology  to-  gether  on  that  one,  shall  we?  The  word  &quot;ox&quot;  (from  the  German  &quot;Ochs,&quot;  meaning  &quot;sorry&quot;)  referred  originally  to  all  cattle,  male  and  female.  Now-  adays  it  refers  mainly  to  the  castrated  male  bovine,  or  &quot;choir  bull,&quot;  a  great  favorite  in  German  households.  Q.  What  about  stampedes?  A.  A  red  herring  if  ever  there  was  one!  People  who  are  secretly  terrified  of  meeting  cows  often  try  to  scare  others  with  talk  of  cattle  risings,  &quot;great  stampedes,&quot;  and  other  trumped-up  ru-  mors  of  bovine  unrest.  There  has  been  a  lot  of  angry  criticism  of  our  so-called  permissiveness  in  this  area,  and  I  my-  self  have  had  two  telephone  calls  from  Martha  Mitchell.  To  all  this,  I  cry,  Nonsense!&quot;  A  few  maladjusted  may-  ericks  may  dash  about  from  time  to  time,  in  an  attempt  to  &quot;cow&quot;  decent,  hardworking  ruminants,  but  the  great  silent  majority  of  American  cattle  is  not  going  to  lose  its  head.  Q.  What's  the  future  for  cows?  A.  I  don't  believe  we  should  look  for  overnight  changes-Mrs.  Cow  is  a  natural  conservative,  after  all.  But  any  animal  that  has  provided  us  since  Neolithic  times  with  food,  clothing,  shoes,  transportation,  luggage,  base-  ball  mitts,  and  (during  the  Christmas  season  )  eggnog,  in  exchange  for  noth-  ing  more  than  second-rate  rural  hous-  ing  and  a  little  grass,  may  very  well  be  doing  some  serious  ruminating  about  her  future.  A  lot  can  happen,  after  all,  in  the  next  ten  thousand  years.  "