 IF  THE  PRESIDENT'  S  HALF~HOUR  PRESS  CONFERENCE  HAD  BEEN  A  LLOWE  D  TO  GO  BEYOND  HALF  AN  HOUR  ...I  understand  I  am  to  invite  all  the  members  of  the  White  House  press  corps  and  your  families  to  the  annual  Christ-  mas  party  on  the  twenty-third  of  De-  cember,  and  she  [Mrs.  Nixon]  says  there's  some  new  lights  that  all  the  chil-  dren  will  like  to  see-Final  remark  of  President  Nixon  in  his  December  10th  press  conference.  Q  WHAT  kind  of  lights,  Mr.  e  President?  A.  With  regard  to  that,  I  want  to  make  it  crystal-clear  that-  Well,  I'm  not  going  into  any  specific  description  here,  but  I  genuinely  believe  that  the  men  who  selected  these  lights-men  in  whom  I  have  very  complete  confi-  dence-have  done  a  very,  very  fine  job.  They  have  rendered  sincere  serv-  ice.  I  would  only  suggest  your  children  will  like  the  lights.  Q.  My  children  aren't  crazy  about  lights,  Mr.  President.  What  would  you  say  is  in  it  for  them?  A.  Well,  first  let  me  say  that  genu-  ine  differences  do  occur-there's  al-  ways  going  to  be  this  kind  of  gap.  I  am  aware  of  this,  and  I  have  satisfied  my-  self  that  there  will  be  cookies.  This  should  tend  to  mute  and  mitigate  this  kind  of  difference.  Q.  Considering  the  state  of  the  economy,  Mr.  President,  do  you  think  it  is  in  the  public  interest  to  light  those  lights?  Your  predecessor,  as  I  recall,  used  to  turn  of  lights  in  the  White  House.  A.  What  is  involved  here  is-  Let  me  put  it  another  way.  I  think  the  record  will  show  that  I  havebeen  winding  down  the  electric  bill  at  the  White  House.  We  now  use  .07  per  cent  less  than  was  used  in  1969,  .04  less  than  in  1968,  and  .08  per  cent  less  than  in  1967.  It  is  still  too  high-I  am  very  aware  of  this-but  let  there  be  no  mis-  understanding:  We  have  a  proud  tradi-  tion,  and  I  am  not  going  to  allow  this  nation  to  come  in  second  or  third  in  Christmas  lights.  Q.  Back  to  the  cookies  for  a  mo-  ment,  Mr.  President.  Who  is  responsi-  ble  for  selecting  the  cookies?  A.  This  is  basically  a  team  effort.  Now,  last  year,  you  may  recall,  there  was,  unfortunately,  a  problem  of  pre-  mature  fragmentation.  The  rug  in  the  Blue  Room  will  show  this  very  clearly.  As  a  result,  I  lost  confidence  in  the  cookie  chef;  perhaps  he  also  lost  confi-  dence  in  me.  I  have  great  admiration  for  him-particularly  on  gingersnaps.  I  wish  him  well.  Q.  What  kind  of  cookies  will  be  served?  A.  That  will  be  announced  at  Mr.  Ziegler's  eleven-o'clock  conference  to-  morrow.  Q.  Thank  you,  Mr.  President.  