THE  ENCLAVE  STREETS  OF  GOLD  FORSWORN  EVERAL  times  when  I  was  little  and  Grandmother  was  away,  Bishop  Johnson  came  to  our  house  for  Sunday-night  supper  after  a  diocesan  call  in  Whittier,  California--  we  were  part  ofthe  small  Episcopal  enclave  in  that  Quaker  community-  and  this  pleasant  habit  lasted  for  many  years,  until  he  was  too  feeble.  I  always  liked  his  portly,  benign  presence,  but  I  do  not  recall  a  single  meal  we  shared--  scrambled  eggs  or  oyster  stew,  proba-  bly,  and  a  glass  of  wince.  So  easy  was  the  family  weather  when  he  was  there  that  my  mother  never  went  into  her  customary  flurry  about  what  would  be  served  at  table  to  &quot;strangers.&quot;  The  Bishop  was  a  fraternity  brother  of  my  father's.  He  had  the  simplicity  of  good  breeding.  Later,  I  went  toa  school  named  partly  for  himand  began  to  wonder  about  his  legendary  devotion  to  his  mother  and  why  he  had  in  her  memory  built  a  chapel  for  so  many  daily  prayers  on  such  impossible  kneel-  ing  benches,  but  when  he  came  to  our  house  everything  was  innocent  of  ques-  tion--at  least,  for  some  time.  Once,  after  he  had  left,  I  listened  to  my  parents  discuss  at  length  his  version  of  the  next  life,  in  the  Heavenly  City.  Yes,  he  had  said  in  confidence  to  them  after  supper,  the  streets  would  indeed  be  paved  with  purest  gold.  The  houses  might  be,too,  with  walls  of  porphyry.  Everything  would  be  flawless  to  look  at,  and  filled  with  love  and  under-  standing.  There  would  be  no  wars  and  squabblings  and  ill-  nesses.  Father  and  Mother  went  on  chatting  about  all  this,  and  I  could  tell  that  they  considered  it  affection-  ately  but  as  if  it  were  a  touch-  ing  dream.  The  feeling  I  got  was:  Do  you  really  think  Bish  (his  pri-  vate  name  with  them)  believes  it?  Je-  rusalem  the  Golden?  Peace?  Heaven?  People  walking  around  smiling  and  saying,  &quot;Well,  hello  there,  Uncle  Abraham,  Aunt  Millicent!&quot;  Father  and  Mother  laughed  quietly.  I  returned  to  thesecret  (except  for  me)  vision  of  my  little  sister,  Anne.  It  seemed  more  realistic-more  plausible,  at  any  rate-than  the  Bishop's.  Inside  her  head,  she  told  me,  was  a  tiny,  perfect  town.  It  fitted  exactly  into  her  skull,  the  whole  top  of  it  above  her  eyebrows,  with  a  blue,  cloudless  sky  always,  and  trees  and  flowers  of  pure  jewel  colors.  The  houses  were  white,  with  paths  leading  between  lawns  and  things  like     strawberry  beds  to  the  picket  gates  and  on  to  the  one  curved  street.  The  roofs  were  a  soft  red.  The  shutters  were  green.  There  was  a  pointy  spire  above  the  church  on  the  village  square,  where  happy  children  played.  Their  voices  sounded  like  silver  bells.  There  were  no  shops  or  animals-no  bicycles.  Mother  and  Father  were  there  some-  where,  and,  of  course,  Aunt  Gwen.  It  never  occurred  to  me  to  ask  if  I  was,  too,  but  by  now  I  rather  doubt  it.  Anne's  close-kept  town  was  a  Grandma  Moses  painting  or  a  [REDACTED],  seen  decades  carly  for  her,  and  al-  though  shedid  not  think  of  it  as  Heav-  en,  it  was  my  little  sister's  refuge  and  Happy  Home,  where  she  wanted  to  be  and  probably  was.  I  almost  never  talked  of  this  dream  with  Anne,  respecting  its  privacy,  but  I  was  very  aware  of  it,  and  I  envied  her.  For  some  of  the  same  reasons,  and  perhaps  also  because  I  did  not  want  to  incriminate  myself  as  an  eavesdropper,  I  never  talked  with  my  parents  about  Bishop  Johnson's  golden  conviction.  Nobody  asked  me  what  I  thought  or  believed  when  I_  was  little,  and  it  is  just  as  well,  because  I  had  no  ideas  at  all  on,  for  instance,  the  subject  of  a  future  life.  I  was  unable  to  Znow,  as  did  Anne  and  Bish  with  their  visions.  I  had  nothing  to  muse  upon  and  to  question  gently,  as  did  my  parents.  I  seemed  to  believe  in  nothing,  or  even  Nothingness,  like  an  oyster  or  a  seed.  I  knew  that  some  people  loved  me,  and  that  plants  and  animals  grew,  the  way  I  was  doing,  and  that  I  loved  them  and  some  people.  But  it  was  impossible,  from  as  soon  as  I  began  to  think,  to  envisage  a  pretty,  tiny  village  as  mine,  or  a  great  city  with  streets  of  gold,  or,  most  of  all,  happy  reunions  with  people  and  flowers  and  beasts  I  knew  were  already  dead.  That  is  one  reason  it  was  a  fine  thing  to  live  where  I  did,  on  the  immediate  edge  ofa  tightly  knit  community  of  Quakers,  bound  by  their  religious  faith  to  conquer  the  wilderness  and  to  stay  in  it  with  their  own  dignity.  I  had  no  plans  fora  future,  as  did  Bish  and  my  little  sister,  but  I  knew  that  Whittier  was  my  place  to  be-for  a  time,  any-  way.  I  was  there.  The  streets  went  straight  in  the  town,  but  then  zig-  zagged  with  more  beauty  when  the  pavements  ended  in  the  near  hills  and  riverbeds  and  orchards.  Few  houses     DECEMBER  12,  1970  were  white,  and  there  was  not  a  red  roofor  a  green  shutter  anywhere.  Brown  shingles  and  ugly  stucco  were  the  rule,  except  for  a  few  shambly  old  farmhouses  like  Aunt  Gwen's,  and  the  dwellings  were  big  or  little  according  to  their  location  and  the  social  level  of  their  people.  The  sidewalks  were  in  many  places  good  enough  to  roller-  skate  on,  and  how  could  I  wantmore  than  that?  The  streets  were  not  yellow  at  all  but  black  from  occasional  coats  of  tar.  As  I  grew  older,  I  could  ride  my  bike  everywhere  but  down  to  the  inter-  section  of  Greenleaf  and  [REDACTED],  where  stores  and  a  few  cars  were.  Whittier  was  an  intrinsically  good  place,  especially  then  and  until  I  could  fabricate  a  more  reasonable  facsimile  of  What  Next,  which  was  probably  what  my  sister  and  the  Bishop  meant  any-  way.  By  the  time  I  was  being  prepared  for  confirmation  I  was  less  nonchalant-  no  longer  the  grasshopper  singing  while  the  ants  dug  and  delved.  I  tried  to  be  serious,  to  think  about  my  soul  and  where  it  was  going.  I  dreaded  the  whole  businessof  finding  out,  if  our  prescribed  Episcopal  course  was  the  only  one,  and,  aside  from  my  growing  inner  confusion,  there  were  two  good  reasons  for  my  qualms.  One  was  that  I  had  never  been  bap-  tized  when  a  baby,  because  my  grand-  mother  was  a  Campbellite  and  believed  in  total  immersion,  and  my  mother  was  a  rebellious  and  renegade  Anglican  (almost  an  epithet  to  my  Irish  grand-  mother)  and  put  her  trust  in  a  mere  signing  of  the  cross  on  a  child's  fore-  head.  We  children  waited,  then,  until  Grandmother  died  before  we  could  be  made  real  Christians-a  state  that  in  our  church  required  christening  with  holy  water  before  going  on  to  a  public  confirmation  of  what  is  assumed  by  the  age  of  reason  (twelve  or  so)  to  be  true  faith.  I  would  have  to  go  through  two  ceremonies  almost  together,  whereas  my  fellow-members  ofthe  lengthy  classes  to  prepare  us  for  confirmation  need  not  stand  up  before  a  font  meant  for  puling  infants  and  in  long  white  socks  and  a  foolish  Sunday  dress  be  deli-  cately  sprinkled.  Bishop  Johnson  would  do  the  whole  thing,  and  have  supper  with  us  later,  which  made  it  more  bear-  able  to  think  on-less  ofa  social  hu-  miliation.  The  second  reason  I  dreaded  the  business  was  that  my  Uncle  Park,  then  and  long  after  one  of  my  favorite  peo-  ple,  had  put  off  just  asI  had  the  mo-  ment  of  being  baptized,  waiting  to  defy  his  doughty  mother  until  she  was  safe-  lyin  her  tomb.  He  came  to  spend  the  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  winter  with  us,  as  often  happened,  and  tactfully  was  dissuaded  by  our  current  rector  from  at-  tending  all  the  con-  firmation  classes,  given  twice  or  more  a  week  for  the  young  people.  But  my  uncle  was  al-  most  sixty,  and  he  had  waited  long  enough.  He  would  join  me  in  church.  The  prospect  of  stumbling  up  to  the  font,  along  with  a  few  sucklings  in  their  moth-  ers'  arms  and  a  man  old  enough  to  be  my  grandfather,  and  then  having  to  head  for  the  chancel  with  him  and  severalof  my  peers-  it  weighed  on  me.  I  listened  to  everything  that  was  being  taught  about  the  benefits  and  privileges  soon  to  be  mine,  ours,  with  dull  and  largely  anesthetic  Plainly,  Uncle  Park  and  I  were  far  too  old  to  be  baptized,  and  if  we  had  got  as  far  as  we  seemed  to  have  done  on  the  job  of  merely  existing,  why  did  we  have  to  stand  up  like  two  clowns-he  with  his  beautiful  little  white  goatee  and  I  al-  most  as  tall  as  I  would  ever  be--and  have  Bish  do  the  babies  first  and  then  sign  us  with  a  damp  cross,  and  then  kneel  at  the  altar  rail  and  have  both  his  hands  on  our  heads?  I  knew  a  lot  about  the  mean-  ing  of  the  sacraments,  or  assumed  I  did-the  dutics  of  being  a  Christian,  all  that.  But  I  was  dismayed  to  find  myself  apart  from  everything  I  was  being  taught.  I  also  felt  mildly  noble  to  admit  to  my-  self  that  I  was  being  vain  and  pettish  to  brood  about  the  cold  fact  that  my  friends  would  titter  into  their  gloves  to  see  me  there  gawkily  with  an  old  man  cars.     and  some  babies.  Mj  outraged  human  vanity  led  me  helplessly  into  an  incoherent  anger,  and  finally  a  real  doubt  about  the  existence  of  God  Himself.  If  He  did  watch  over  His  flock,  and  protect  it,  why  must  I  face  my  immediate  future  of  embar-   rassment?  Why  must  I  now  Azee/  with  bowed  head  before  His  power?  I  had  lived  a  happy  life  without  be-  ing  baptized,  and  would  gladly  prom-  ise  to  continue  the  same  carefree,  un-  blasphemous  pattern,  full  of  trust  and  obedience,  if  I  could  skip  confirma-  tion,  too.  In  a  primitive  way,  a  part  of  me  was  frightened  of  this  growing  at-  titude,  and  I  neverspoke  of  it.  But  I  did  make  one  strangely  inept  attempt  to  hint  to  my  parents  that  I  had  some-  thing  on  my  mind  beyond  the  next  meal.  One  night  after  dinner,  when  we  ordinarily  sat  fora  while  at  table  if  Father  did  not  have  to  rush  to  a  meet-  ing,  and  we  talked  about  things  that  were  forbidden  while  we  ate-things  like  schoolyardor  internecine  squab-  bles,  death,  taxes,  politics-I  remarked  with  sly  candor  that  I  was  fairly  sure  Bishop  Johnson  always  gave  me  a  special  handshake.  Of  course,  I  had  heard  that  fraternity  brothers  and  Elks  and  Masons  and  people  like  that  knew  secret  ways  of  communicating.  And  Father  and  the  Bishop  belonged  to  the  same  college  club,  and  Father  was  both  an  Elk  and  a  Mason  and  perhaps  some  " b" bishops  were,  too,  and  it  had  certainly  seemed  to  me  that  the  last  time  the  Bishop  came  to  supper  he  had,  when  he  held  my  hand  for  goodbye  at  the  door,  pressed  it  in  a  certain  way.  &quot;I  am  sure  he  gave  me  the  secret  grip-yours,  just  a  little  changed  for  girls,&quot;  I  said  solemnly  to  Father,  and  I  was  going  to  add  that  it  seemed  foolish,  since  I  was  already  more  or  less  initi-  ated,  to  bother  with  baptism  and  con-  firmation  and  such.  __  But  my  parents  looked  at  each  other  and  laughed,  very  nicely  but  thorough-  ly,  and  in  a  kindly  and  dismissive  way.  I  went  up  to  bcd,  after  the  usual  polite\xe2\x80\x94  nesses.  I  knew  that  I  had  missed  the  point  somehow.  I  could  still  feel  that  strange  pressure  within  my  palm:  index  finger  up  higher  than  usual  toward  the  thumb,  the  little  finger  outward,  and  then  two  sharp  short  downward  shakes,  or  something  like  that.  How  fine  it  must  be  to  belong  to  a  secret  club,  and  learn  such  rites  in  private,  not  out  in  full  view!  Uncle  Park  continued  to  prepare  himself,  with  afternoon  private  talks  in  the  parish  house  and  a  cup  of  tea  later  with  the  rector's  wife,  and  I  went  on  listening  stolidly  to  my  instructions  about  how  to  be  a  Christian.  I  felt  that  I  was  learning  some  inner  strength,     but  certainly  it  was  not  the  kind  toward  which  I  was  being  led.  HE  day  came.  We  made  it  to  the  church  in  two  loads:  first  Anne  and  me,  with  Norah,  the  new  baby,  and  Aunt  Gwen,  and  then  Uncle  Park  and  his  wife  and  Mother,  all  ignoring  the  ghost  of  Grandmother  in  their  own  ways.  Uncle  Park  looked  as  natty  as  a  portly  dragonfly,  in  a  gray  suit  with  a  fawn-colored  vest  and  a  handkerchief  of  purest  white  folded  ex-  pertly  by  my  mother.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  used  her  own  fine  bit  of  linen  to  mop  away  an  occasional  tear  as  he  belatedly  joined  her  faith.  I  was  at  one  of  my  life's  lowest  points,  dressed  like  a  skinny  child  when  I  felt  as  old  as  anybody  within  sight.  I  am  sure  Anne  was  going  to  be  baptized,  though  not  confirmed,  but  I  was  so  engrossed  with  my  own  problems  that  I  was  numb  to  her  being  there  at  all.  It  was  too  late  for  emotions,  good-  byes.  Ritual  must  be  clung  to  in  such  moments,  and  I  knew  exactly  when  to  take  off  my  gloves,  kneel,  stand.  And  I  was  pretty  sure  I  knew  what  would  happen.  Bishop  Johnson,  old  by  then  and  magnificent  in  white  and  purple,  his  great  amethyst  glowing  under  the  wrist  ruffles  of  his  special  pleated  surplice,  and  pre-  ceded  by  one  of  my  friends  carrying  the  crosier,  took  his  place  inside  the  altar  rail  in  his  special  chair.  The  baptizing  was  over.  Sev-  eral  of  us  went  up  to  the  stained-pine  rail  Uncle  Mac  had  often  cursed  at,  because  even  he  could  nev-  er  tinker  it  enough  to  stop  its  wobbling,  and  part  of  our  instructions  had  been  not  to  lean  against  it  in  any  way  but  especially  toward  the  Bishop,  or  we  might  go  sprawling  at  his  feet-an  unseemly  prospect  on  that  day.  The  Bishop  went  through  his  appointed  du-  ties,  When  he  came  pon-  derously  around  to  me  for  the  last  time,  I  was  saying  to  myself,  &quot;I  do  not  can  not  will  not  agree  to  this  contract.  Strike  me  dead  if  I  am  wrong.&quot;  I  was  supposed  to  close  my  eyes  as  the  Bishop's  hands  were  laid  upon  my  bowed  head.  Instead,  I  looked  up,  saying,  as  visibly  as  a  silent  cat  can  say  that  she  is  think-  ing  of  a  mouse  or  a  sardine,  that  I  wanted  the  altar  to  cleave  open  like  a  great  egg  and  strike  me  dead  with  one  godly  bolt  of  lightning.  &quot;Strike  me  dead!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;If  there  is  a  God,  let  Him  prove  it  now!&quot;  The  Bishop  went  on  down  the  row  of  young  people  who  had  not  lifted  their  heads  with  open  eyes  as  I  had  done,  but  it  seemed  to  me  then,  and  later,  and  even  now  a  little,  that  his  hands  stayed  for  a  second  with  a  secret  message  upon  my  prickling  scalp-not  one  learned  in  any  fraternity  I  knew  of.  Gently  he  lowered  my  head.  He  knew  what  I  had  asked  for,  and  why  I  had  been  refused.  I  closed  my  eves,  conderaned  forever  to  doubt  but  glad  not  to  be  dead  yet.  He  came  as  usual  to  supper,  a  mild-  ly  hilarious  one  because  Uncle  Park  was  happy  to  have  his  long  wait  over,  and  as  far  as  I  know  I  never  saw  His  Reverence  again-certainly  not  in  the  decorous  arcades  of  the  school  founded  in  his  mother's  memory.  I  feel  sure  that  as  he  laid  his  fat,  knowing  hands  upon  my  head  that  dreadful  day  he  was  telling  me  that  I  would  find  my  own  version  of  his  Golden  City,  of  my  sister's  tiny  village  to  beheld  in  a  por-  ridge  bowl,  and  a  dozen  others. "