 AN  EVENING  Y\xc2\xa5ITH  RAMON  BONAVENA  [REDACTED]  statistics,  all  work  that  is  mere-  A  ly  descriptive  or  informative,  imply  the  ambitious  and  perhaps  groundless  hope  that  in  the  incalculable  future  men  like  us,  but  with  clearer  minds,  will  infer  from  the  data  that  we  leave  them  some  useful  conclusion  or  some  hidden  truth.  Those  familiar  with  the  six  volumes  of  &quot;North-Northeast,&quot;  by  Ramon  Bonavena,  may,  for  all  we  know,  suppose  that  further  elaboration  is  needed  in  order  to  crown  and  to  complement  the  body  of  work  be-  queathed  by  this  master.  Let  us,  at  the  outset,  give  warning  that  the  forego-  ing  remarks  are  the  fruit  of  a  personal  reaction  by  no  means  authorized  by  Bonavena.  The  only  time  I  spoke  with  him,  Bonavena  flatly  disclaimed  the  idea  of  any  aesthetic  or  scientific  sig-  nificance  in  the  work  to  which  he  had  dedicated  a  lifetime.  That  evening,  after  all  the  intervening  years,  still  stands  out  in  my  memory.  Along  about  1936,  I  worked  on  the  Sunday  literary  section  of  the  Evening  News.  The  editor,  a  man  whose  far-  ranging  curiosity  included,  now  and  then,  the  world  of  books,assigned  me  one  typical  Tuesday  to  interview  the  well-known  but  not  yet  famous  novelist  at  his  suburban  retreat  in  Ezpeleta.  The  house,  which  is  still  standing,  was  of  one  floor,  though  its  flat  roof  boasted  two  rather  small  balconies  in  a  pathetic  hope  of  an  upper  story.  Bonavena  himself  opened  the  door  to  me.  The  dark  glass-  es,  which  make  so  brave  a  show  in  his  better-  known  photos  and  which  were  part  and  parcel,  it  seems,  of  a  passing  ailment,  did  not  that  day  adorn  that  face  of  vast  and  flabby  jowls  in  which  his  features  seemed  to  melt.  After  so  many  years,  I  believe  I  still  remember  his  knee-length  linen  dust-  coat  and  Turkish  bed-  room  slippers.  His  unforced  polite,  ness  did  not  hide  a  core  of  reticence;  at  the  out-  set,  I  attributed  this  to  modesty,  but  soon  it  was  evident  to  me  that  the  man  felt  very  sure  of  himself  and  await,  ed,  without  undue  im-  patience,  the  hour  of  worldwide  fame.  En-  gaged  in  his  pressing  and  almost  endless  task,  he  was  grudging  of  his  time,  and  the  publicity  I  offered  meant  little  or  nothing  to  him.  In  his  study-that  had  about  it  something  of  the  waiting  room  of  a  small-town  dentist,  with  its  pastel  sea-  scapes  and  its  china  figurines  of  shep-  herds  and  dogs-there  were  few  books,  and  most  of  these  were  diction-  aries  of  various  disciplines  and  trades.  The  powerful  magnifying  glass  and  the  carpenter's  rule  that  I  noticed  on  the  green  baize  of  his  writing  table  did  not  surprise  me  in  the  least.  Coffee  and  tobacco  stimulated  our  conversa-  tion.  &quot;Of  course,  I  have  read  and  reread  your  work,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  believe,  none-  theless,  that  in  order  to  guide  the  com-  mon  reader,  the  mass  man,  along  a  plane  of  relative  comprehension,  it  would  be  helpful,  perhaps,  if  you  would  sketch,  in  broad  strokes  and  without  going  into  great  detail,  the  develop-  ment  of  'North-Northeast  from  the  first  seminal  urge  to  the  final  vast  pro-  duction.  I  admonish-e4b  ovo,  ab  ovo!&quot;  His  face,  until  then  gray  and  al-  most  expressionless,  brightened  up.  Aft-  er  a  moment,  his  well-chosen  words  poured  out  in  a  torrent:  &quot;My  plan,  at  the  beginning,  did  not  exceed  the  bounds  of  literature,  or,  even  worse,  of  realism.  I  wanted-there  was     DECEMBER  19,  1970  nothing  out  of  the  ordinary  about  this,  really-to  produce  a  novel  of  the  land,  straightforward,  with  deeply  human  characters  and  the  usual  protest  against  absentee  landowners.  I  thought  of  Ez-  peleta,  my  own  town.  Indifferent  to  ivory-tower  aesthetics,  I  meant  to  give  open-minded  testimony  about  a  limited  sector  of  local  society.  The  first  prob-  lems  to  come  up  were,  perhaps,  just  trifies.  The  characters'  names,  for  ex-  ample.  To  call  them  by  their  real  names  might  have  exposed  me  to  charges  of  libel.  My  lawyer,  Attorney  Ignacio  B.  Garmendia,  whose  office  is  just  around  the  corner,  assured  me,  as  a  bit  of  preventive  medicine,  that  the  average  man  of  Ezpeleta  is  prone  to  litigation.  I  could  always,  of  course,  have  invented  names,  but  that  might  have  opened  the  door  to  imagination.  I  opted  for  the  use  of  initials,  with  as-  terisks-a  solution  that  hardly  satisfied  me.  Working  my  way  into  my  subject,  I  came  to  realize  that  the  major  diffi-  culty  lay  not  in  the  characters'  names  but  rather  was  ofa  psychological  order.  How  was  I  to  put  myself  into  my  neighbor's  head?  How  was  I  to  guess  what  others  were  thinking  without  ab-  juring  realism?  The  answer  was  clear,  but  at  first  I  could  not  see  it.  Then  I  considered  the  prospect  of  a  novel  in  which  the  characters  were  domestic  animals.  But  once  again,  how  was  I  to  intuit  the  cerebral  processes  ofa  dog,  how  was  I  to  enter  into  a  world  per-  haps  less  visual  than  ol-  factory?  At  a  loss,  I  fell  back  on  myself  and  thought  thatthe  one  re-  maining  possibility  rest-  ed  in  autobiography.  But  even  here  lay  the  labyrinth.  Who  was  I?  Today's  self,  bewil-  dered;  yesterday's,  for-  gotten;  tomorrow's,  unpredictable?  What  could  be  more  unattain-  able  than  the  mind?  If  I  am  self-conscious  as  I  write,  self-conscious-  ness  creeps  in,  a  new  factor;  if  I  surrender  to  free  association,  I  surrender  to  chance.  I  don't  know  whether  you  recall  the  story  told,  I  believe  by  Cicero,  of  a  woman  who  went  to  a  temple  to  consult  with  an  oracle  and  unaware  of  it  spoke  the  very  words  of  the  answer  she  sought.  Something  sim-  ilar  happened  to  me  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  here  in  Ezpeleta.  Not  so  much  in  search  of  a  solution  but  one  day  looking  for  something  to  do,  I  read  over  my  notes.  And  there  laythe  key  I  was  after.  There,  in  the  words  limited  sector.  When  I  wrote  them,  I  was  simply  using  a  common-  place;  when  I  reread  them,  a  sudden  revelation  dazzled  me.  A  limited  sector  .  ..  What  sec-  tor  could  be  more  limited  than  a  corner  of  the  deal  table  at  which  I  worked?  I  decided  then  to  restrict  myself  to  one  corner,  to  what  that  corner  might  offer.  I  measured  with  this  carpenter's  rule-which  you  may  examine  at  your  pleas-  ure-the  leg  of  the  aforemen-  tioned  table  and  verified  that  it  stood  at  thirty-one  inches  above  floor  level,  a  height  I  deemed  adequate.  To  have  gone  on  in-  definitely  upward  would  have  meant  to  knock  my  head  against  the  ceiling,  then  the  roof,  and  quite  soon  astrono-  my;  to  have  delved  down  would  have  sunk  me  into  the  basement,  out  onto  the  sub-  tropical  plain,  if  not  into  the  very  bowels  of  the  globe.  The  chosen  corner,  at  least,  offered  no  lack  of  interesting  possibili-  ties.  The  copper  ashtray,  the  blue-and-red  pointed  pencil,  and  so  on,  et  cetera.&quot;  At  this  point,  I  was  unable  to  stifle  my  emotion,  and  I  broke  in  :  &quot;I  know,  I  know.  You're  talking  about  the  second  and  third  chapters,  where  we  learn  all  about  the  ashtray-the  vari-  ous  shades  of  the  copper,  its  specific  gravity,  its  diameter,  the  exact  distances  and  angles  between  the  ashtray,  the  pen-  cil,  and  the  edge  of  the  table,  and  then  the  workmanship  of  the  twin  china  sheepdogs,  and  what  they  cost  wholesale  and  retail,  and  so  many  other  facts  no  less  scrupulous  than  to  the  point.  And  as  for  the  pencil-  an  Eagle,  an  Eagle  Chemi-Sealed  No.  2B!  -what  can  I  say?  You  got  it  down  so  perfectly  and,  thanks  to  your  genius  for  compression,  into  only  twenty-nine  pages-pages  that  leave  nothing  to  be  desired  by  even  the  most  insatiable  appetite.&quot;  Bonavena  did  not  blush.  Without  haste,  without  pause,  he  again  picked  up  the  flow  of  dialogue.  &quot;Ah,  the  seed  has  not  fallen  outside  the  furrow!  You  are  steeped  in  my  work.  As  a  bonus,  I'll  make  you  this  free  gift  of  an  oral  ap-  pendix.  One  refers  not  to  the  work  it-  self  but  to  the  scruples  of  its  creator.  Once  having  exhausted  the  herculean  labors  of  recording  the  objects  in  their  fixed  places  at  the  north-northeast  cor-  ner  of  my  writing  table  (an  achieve-  ment  that  cost  me  two  hundred  and  eleven  pages),  I  asked  myself  whether  it  was  legitimate  to  replenish  the  est,  to  introduce  arbitrarily  new  articles,  to  deploy  them  within  the  magnetic  field,  and  go  on,  without  ado,  to  describe  them.  These  objects,  delib-  erately  chosen  for  my  descriptive  tasks  and  brought  from  the  far  reaches  of  the  room  and  even  from  the  house,  would  never  attain  the  casualness,  the  spon-  taneity,  of  the  first  series.  Nevertheless,  once  located  within  the  proper  angles,  they  would  become  a  part  of  reality  and  would  demand  the  appropriate  treatment.  The  marvellous  grapple  of  the  ethic  and  the  aesthetic!  This  Gor-  dian  knot  was  cut  by  the  sudden  ap-  pearance  of  the  baker's  delivery  boy,  a  most  reliable  young  man,  though  a  half-wit.  Zanichelli,  the  half-wit  in  question,  came  to  be,  to  usethe  com-  mon  expression,  my  deus  ex  machina.  His  very  density  fitted  him  for  the  pur-  pose.  With  trembling  hope,  almost  as  " b" committing  an  act  of  desecration,  I  ordered  him  to  place  something,  any-  thing,  within  the  now  vacant  corner.  He  laid  there  a  rubber  eraser,  a  pen-  holder,  and,  once  again,  the  ashtray.&quot;  &quot;The  famous  beta  series!&quot;  I  broke  in.  &quot;Now  I  understand  the  enigmatic  recurrence  of  the  ashtray,  which  is  re-  peated  almost  word  for  word,  except  for  a  few  references  to  the  penholder  and  eraser.  More  than  one  hasty  critic  thought  he  spotted  a  confusion-&quot;  Bonavena  stood  up,  towering.  &quot;In  my  work  there  are  no  confusions,&quot;  he  declared  with  justifiable  gravity.  &quot;The  references  to  the  penholder  and  eraser  should  be  a  sufficient  clue.  With  a  read-  er  like  yourself,  there's  no  point  in  de-  tailing  the  later  arrangements.  Let  it  be  enough  to  tell  you  that  I  shut  my  eyes,  the  half-wit  placed  one  object  or  anoth-  er,  and  then-hands  to  the  task!  In  theory  my  book  is  infinite,  in  practice  I  claim  my  right  to  the  rest  I've  earned-  " b" call  it  a  halt  by  the  wayside-after  hav-  ing  evacuated  page  941  of  Volume  V.  At  any  rate,  descriptionism  is  on  the  march.  In  [REDACTED]  there  was  recently  celebrated  the  appearance  of  the  first  installment  of  'Goldfish  Bowl,  a  work  wherein  I  have  detected  not  a  few  heterodoxies.  In  Burma,  in  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED],  in  Bayonne,  active  new  centers  are  emerging.&quot;  Somehow,  I  felt  that  the  interview  was  drawing  to  an  end.  I  said,  fore-  stalling  our  goodbye,  &quot;Maestro,  be-  fore  I  go  I  want  to  ask  you  one  last  favor.  May  I  see  some  of  the  objects  recorded  in  the  book?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Bonavena.  &quot;You  will  never  see  them.  Each  arrangement,  before  its  substitution  by  the  succeed-  ing,  was  carefully  photographed.  In  this  way,  I  obtained  a  brilliant  series  of  slides.  Their  destruction,  on  Octo-  ber  26,  1934,  was  most  painful  to  me.  More  painful  still  was  the  destruction  of  the  objects  themselves.&quot;  1The  whole  world  knows  that  a  sixth  volume  appeared  posthumously  in  1939.  I  registered  consternation.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  I  managed  to  get  out.  &quot;You  brought  yourself  to  destroy  the  black  pawn  of  upsilon  and  the  hammer  han-  dle  of  gamma?&quot;  Bonavena  looked  at  me  sadly.  &quot;The  sacrifice  was  necessary,&quot;  he  explained.  &quot;''The  work,  like  the  child  who  comes  of  age,  must  stand  on  its  own  feet.  To  have  preserved  the  source  material  might  have  exposed  it  to  irrelevant  con-  frontations.  Criticism  might  have  fallen  into  the  snare  of  judging  it  in  terms  of  its  more  or  less  fidelity.  In  that  way  we  would  have  lapsed  into  mere  scientism.  You  are  aware,  of  course,  that  I  deny  my  work  any  scientific  value.&quot;  Trying  to  console  him,  I  said,  &quot;Of  course,  of  course.  'North-Northeast  is  a  work  of  art-&quot;  &quot;''That's  another  mistake,&quot;  pro-  nounced  Bonavena.  &quot;I  deny  my  work  any  artistic  value.  It  occupies,  so  to  speak,  a  plane  of  its  own.  The  emo-  tions  awakened  by  it,  the  tears,  the  acclaim,  the  grimaces,  leave  me  quite  indifferent.  It  has  not  been  my  inten-  tion  to  instruct,  to  uplift,  to  entertain,  to  gladden,  or  to  move.  My  work  is  beyond  that.  It  aspires  to  the  humblest  and  highest  of  all  aims-a  place  in  the  universe.&quot;  Firmly  set  on  his  shoulders,  the  solid  head  did  not  move.  The  eyes  no  longer  saw  me.  I  understood  that  the  visit  was  over  and  left  as  best  I  could,  The  rest  is  silence.  "