M  U  ILL  another  Oriental  exercise  technique  has  reached  the  West.  Today,  more  and  more  Ameri-  cans  are  turning  from  yoga,  karate,  aikido,  fai  chi  chuan,  and  other  out-  moded  methods  to  the  Tibetan  practice  of  mii,  and  no  wonder.  Mii  guarantees  long  life,  perfect  health,  and  permanent  mental  tranquillity  in  five  easy  lessons,  or  your  karma  back.  Also  known  as  the  Fivefold  Elapse,  ma  is  particularly  ap-  pealing  to  American  students,  because  most  of  the  exercises  can  be  done  in  your  automobile,  while  you  are  stuck  in  traffic.  Like  all  Oriental  mind-body  tech-  niques,  \xc2\xbb  is  based  on  breath  control.  &quot;When  the  superior  man  breathes,  good  fortune  to  large  animals,&quot;  says  a  mii  mot.  Taoist  monks  in  the  eighth  century  discovered  that  by  forming  hollow  squares  and  breathing  in  clock-  wise  circles  they  couldput  brigands  to  flight.  This  was  called  &quot;pouring  forth  chi.&quot;  Sometime  in  the  eleventh  century,  a  Taoist  monk  named  Wang  poured  forth  chi  so  assiduously  that  he  offended  the  gods,  causing  them  to  pack  up  and  move  out.  For  penance,  Wang  climbed  a  bo  tree  and  remained  there  for  nine  years,  making  a  sound  through  his  nose.  When  he  came  down  again  he  brought  the  mind-body  exercises  of  the  Five-  fold  Elapse,  which  he  immediately  demonstrated  on  a  grassy  sward  before  an  audience  of  brown  heifers.  The  animals'  unanimous  response  gave  the  technique  its  popular  name.  The  guiding  principles  of  all  ma  ex-  ercises  are  Effortless  Effort  and  Mind-  less  Mind.  A  simple  movement  known  as  &quot;White  Crane  Flies  Backward&quot;  may  be  used  to  begin  the  sequence;  it  takes  approximately  fifteen  sec-  onds,  and  is  thus  suitable  for  use  while  stopped  at  a  red  light.  The  adept  directs  his  breath  (ch)  in  a  clockwise  circle,  whose  radius  passes  through  a  point  two  finger  widths  below  the  navel,  and  at  the  same  time  concentrates  his  third,  or  inward,  eye  upon  some  noncontroversial  truth,  preferably  soybeans.  When  a  state  of  mind-  lessness  has  been  attained,  the  adept  raises  his  left  foot  until  it  rests  comfortably  on  the  hyoid  bone  of  the  throat.  Beginners  may  find  that  their  muscles  are  too  stiff  to  execute  this  movement  with  the  proper  degree  of  effort,  lessness,  but  after  a  little  practice  it  will  comemore  easily.  Contin-  uing  to  breathe  in  circular  fash-  ion,  the  adept  now  raises  his  right  foot  and  inserts  it  in  the  glove  com-  partment.  The  pose  is  held  for  seven  breaths,  or  until  the  light  changes.  More  time  is  required  for  the  exer-  cise  known  as  &quot;Punch  Tiger,  Step  Lively,&quot;  which  should  be  attempted  only  during  a  blockage  of  two  or  more  lanes  of  an  arterial  highway.  (&quot;Many  vehicles  contend;  marrying  off  little  sister  is  not  profitable.&quot;)  The  student  must  first  store  up  a  considerable  quan-  tity  of  chi-at  least  four  kilos  are  recommended.  When  sufficient  chi  has  been  gathered  in  the  seika-no-itten,  or  lower  abdomen,  itis  poured  forth  in  a  series  of  sharp  &quot;huffing&quot;  breaths  (care  being  taken  not  to  fog  the  windshield),  and  then  immediately  reaccumulated,  but  zot  in  the  seike-no-itten.  Chi  must  now  be  stored  in  the  left  side  of  the  chest  cavity,  just  behind  the  ensiform  cartilage.  Once  again,  chi  is  forcefully  expelled  and  quickly  drawn  in-this  time  in  the  right  chest  cavity.  A  rapid  shuttling  motion  of  chi  within  the  chest  follows-left,  right,  left,  right,  and  so  on--and  is  maintained  for  several  min-  utes.  Loss  of  consciousness  sometimes  ensues,  but  the  student  must  not  fear  this  outcome.  He  will  soon  be  revived  in  any  case  by  the  &quot;Sound  of  Many  Horns.&quot;  When  edging  toward  an  alternate  feed  at  bridges  and  tunnels,  the  exer-  cise  known  as  &quot;Jade  Maiden  Cannot  Decide&quot;  is  beneficial.  Keeping  both  hands  on  the  steering  wheel,  the  adept  crosses  his  ankles,  raises  his  body  so  that  thighs  and  buttocks  are  lightly  sus-  pended,  and  taps  alternately  on  the  ac-  celerator  and  the  brake  pedal  with  the  heel  of  the  opposite  foot.  Rhythmic  cir-  SB  culation  of  chi  is  essential  during  this  exercise.  Irregular  circulation  may  put  undue  strain  upon  the  epigastric  furrow  and  cause  the  student  to  lose  his  place  in  line.  (&quot;The  adversary  breathes  tainted  air.  Good  fortune.&quot;)  Ronald  Sensenbrenner,  afourth-  degree  pink-belt  m\xc2\xbb#  master  from  Ana-  heim,  [REDACTED],  has  cleverly  adapted  the  &quot;Paper  Dragon&quot;  series  of  exercises  for  use  in  swiftly  moving  traffic  on  freeways:  Closing  both  eyes  and  rhyth-  mically  circulating  cA,  place  the  hands  behind  the  head  with  fingers  tightly  interlaced  (steering  may  be  done  with  the  knees  meanwhile)  and  move  the  arms  backward  until  the  elbows  make  contact.  Return  hands  to  the  steering  wheel  and  repeat  the  same  exercise  from  the  waist  down,  separating  and  bending  the  thighs  back  until  the  knees  touch,  or  until  there  is  a  sharp,  rending  sensation  from  one  of  those  &quot;hard  to  reach&quot;  muscles  of  the  pelvic  girdle.  When  your  automobile  overheats  and  stalls  in  heavy  traffic,  do  not  waste  vital  energy  by  growing  upset.  (&quot;Biting  through  stale  cookie;  some  humiliation,  but  little  sister  may  yet  marry.&quot;)  Instead,take  advantage  of  the  opportunity  thus  provided  for  the  &quot;Yellow  Emperor's  Mother&quot;  exercise,  also  known  as  the  &quot;Pose  of  Utter  Resignation.&quot;  Having  raised  the  hood  of  your  stalled  vehicle,  sit  down  on  the  road  facing  it,  either  in  the  dou-  ble  lotus  position  or  in  the  &quot;Pose  of  a  Mechanic.&quot;  Concentrating  your  third  (inward)  eye  upon  the  cloud  of  steam  escaping  from  the  radiator,  imag-  ine  that  this  vapor  is  carrying  your  spirit  heavenward.  When  Teamsters  come  forward,  do  not  neglect  to  pour  forth  chi.  "