"THE  BOY  VHO  LAUGHED  HE  specialists  consulted  by  Sla-  va's  anxious  parents  all  agreed  that  Slava  was  retarded.  None  would  commit  themselves  further.  All  had  known,  or  at  least  heard  of,  other-  wise  normal  children  who  did  not  speak  till  they  were  five,  six-indeed,  seven  years  old.  By  the  time  he  was  eight,  everyone  could  see  that  Slava,  while  patently  a  human  being,  would  never  be  a  full  member  of  society;  the  slack  underlip,  the  straight  spaced  fingers,  the  curious  angle  at  which  he  habitual-  ly  carried  his  head  were  more  articu-  late  than  poor  Slava's  unmanageable  tongue.  Many  people  advised  Yuri  Vladimirovich  and  Valentina  Matve-  yeyna  to  send  their  child  to  a  Home.  Yuri  Vladimirovich  might  have  agreed  to  do  this,  but  he  never  dared  to  pro-  pose  it  to  his  wife  or  his  mother.  And  many  who  knew  Slava  in  his  home  thought  it  would  be  a  tragedy  to  send  him  away.  One  doctor  went  so  far  as  to  say  that  to  deprive  Slava  of  the  only  things  he  understood-his  mother's  af-  fection  and  the  passionate  devotion  of  his  grandmother-would  cause  a  trau-  ma  from  which  Slava  would  never  re-  cover.  &quot;And  it  would  kill  Babush-  ka,&quot;  Valentina  Matveyevna  said.  Yuri  Vladimirovich  knew  it  was  true-his  mother  lived  for  Slava;  without  him  her  life  would  have  no  meaning.  The  move  from  Odessa,  where  Sla-  va  was  born,  to  [REDACTED],  occasioned  by  Yuri  Vladimirovich's  astounding  suc-  cess  in  nuclear  physics,  had  a  most  un-  fortunate  effect  on  Slava.  In  Odessa,  the  family  had  inhabited  the  ground  floor  ofa  dilapidated  two-story  house  in  a  weed-grown  yard,  where  Slava  spent  hours  on  end  picking  grass  stalks,  which  he  afterward  placed  one  by  one  on  the  stone  path,  in  subtle,  never  repeating  patterns.  Upstairs  lived  two  old  ladies  who  had  known  Slava  all  his  life  and  were  used  to  him.  In  [REDACTED],  Slava,  his  parents,  and  his  grandmother  had  to  live  in  two  rooms  on  the  ninth  floor  of  a  house  built  in  the  eraof  communal  apartments.  The  yard  was  a  thorough,  fare  for  motor  traffic,  and  Slava  had  to  make  his  patterns  from  spent  matches  on  the  top  of  a  trunk  in  the  tiny  room  he  shared  with  Babushka.  He  soon  came  down  with  asevere  case  of  flu.  Thanks  to  Babushka's  fanatical  con-  scientiousness  in  carrying  out  the  doc-  tor's  orders,  still  more  perhaps  to  the  purity  and  intensity  of  her  love,  Slava  recovered,  but  he  was  a  different  boy  in  his  relations  with  the  outside  world  forever  after.  Before  his  illness,  he  had  taken  no  notice  when  the  other  tenants  spoke  to  him;  now  he  responded  to  the  kind-  liest  greetings  with  maniacal  chuckles.  He  was  quiet  with  his  gentle  mother  and  grandmother,  but  on  Sundays  and  in  the  evenings  when  his  father  came  home  harsh  laughter  was  heard  in  the  other  room  every  time  a  door  was  opened.  Housewives  at  work  in  the  communal  kitchen  set  down  a  rolling  pin  on  a  floured  board,  upended  an  iron,  to  shut  out  the  horrid  sound  with  a  hand  at  each  ear.  And  oneday  Yuri  Vladimirovich  packed  up  his  bag  and  went  away  never  to  return.  And  no  wonder,  the  other  tenants  said.  It  was  all  the  fault  of  his  mother,  of  his  wife,  for  not  sending  Slava  to  a  Home;  how  could  one  of  the  most  promising  young  physicists  in  the  Soviet  Union  beex-  pected  to  live  at  close  quarters  with  a  hopeless  imbecile,  even  if  it  was  his  own  child?  Where  was  he  to  write,  to  receive  his  friends  and  colleagues  after  work  hours?  There  were  even  people  who  said  Slava  should  havebeen  &quot;al-  lowed  to  dic&quot;  of  the  flu.  They  asked  what  would  become  of  Slava  when  his  grandmother  died-more  delicately  :  if  any  thing  should  happen  to  his  mother?  They  said  such  children  live  forever.  Valentina  Matveyevna  and  her  moth-  er-in-law  shrugged  their  shoulders  help-  lessly.  What  was  meant  by  &quot;allowed  to  die&quot;?  Were  they  to  withhold  succor  from  a  sentient  being  who  gazed  trust-  fully  at  them  from  fringed  eyes  and  ac-  cepted  their  ministrations  with  the  way-     43  ering  smile  only  seen  on  the  lips  of  infants  and  dying  persons?  Did  Slava  need  love  and  security  less  than  other  children?  Or,  being  defective,  didn't  his  needs  matter?  For  the  first  four  years  of  Slava's  life,  had  not  Valentina  Matveyevyna  been  as  proud  and  happy  as  any  mother?  Was  his  mother  to  give  him  up  because  he  was  unfortunate?  Two  attempts  were  made  to  put  Slava  in  a  day  school  for  retarded  chil-  dren-once  when  he  was  six  years  old  and  once  after  his  father  left  them.  Each  ended  in  catastrophe.  The  doc-  tor  said  Slava  could  only  be  dealt  with  in  a  Home,  but  held  out  no  hopes  of  a  &quot;cure&quot;-the  trauma  might  be  too  strong  for  treatment  to  beof  any  use.  And  gradually,  under  Babushka's  gen-  tle,  unrelaxing  pressure,  Slava  became  amenable  to  certain  social  disciplines;  he  learned  to  stand  aside  to  let  a  neigh-  bor  pass  him  in  the  hall,  to  wait  till  everyone  else  was  in  the  lift  before  stepping  in  himself,  to  wipe  his  boots  on  the  mat.  He  snarled  quietly  at  play,  but  the  horrid  outbreaks  of  harsh  laughter  grew  less  frequent,  and  only  occurred  under  stress  of  novelty  or  fear.  Slava  loved  to  draw;  he  drew  by  the  hour  during  the  day,  and  in  the  night  Babushka  was  sometimes  awakened  by  a  low  continuous  growling  from  the  window  and  knew  it  was  Slava  standing  behind  the  window  curtains,  drawing  by  the  light  from  the  neon  lamps  in  the  street.  Friends  encouraged  Valentina  Matveyevna  to  believe  Slava  had  artistic  talent.  (Weren't  van  Gogh  and  Utrillo  both  mad?)  But  the  ob-  " b" session  subsided,  the  albums  and  cray-  ons  lay  untouched  in  thetop  drawer  of  the  bureau.  And  yet  the  indefati-  gable  Babushka  managed  to  graft  cer-  tain  skills  on  what  the  doctors  said  were  the  empty  cells  of  Slava's  brain.  She  taught  him  to  read.  He  would  read  aloud  in  a  low  murmur  by  the  hour  from  any  book  put  into  his  hands,  without  apparently  any  preferences;  Russian  folk  tales,  &quot;Robinson  Crusoe,&quot;  Tales  for  Tiny  Tots&quot;  seemed  to  give  him  equal  pleasure,  and  once  his  mother  had  had  trouble  tearing  him  away  from  a  street  guide  to  Leningrad  that  had  been  given  to  him  in  mistake  for  a  copy  of  the  &quot;Arabian  Nights.&quot;  It  seemed  that  the  only  thing  Slava  couldn't  do  was  to  make  sense  out  of  his  senses.  Babushka's  supreme  achievement  was  teaching  Slava  to  play  the  piano.  Her  method  was  crude  to  the  point  of  subtlety:  she  placed  his  great  paws  over  the  backs  of  her  own  delicately  arched  hands  and  played  a  few  bars  of  music  over  and  over  again,  then  slipped  her  hands  from  beneath  Slava's  hollowed  palm,  leaving  the  tips  of  his  fingers  poised  on  the  keys;  Slava's  excellent  ear  and  sense  of  rhythm  did  the  rest,  and  soon  he  had  a  repertoire  of  six  songs,  ranging  from  the  &quot;Volga  Boat  Song&quot;  to  &quot;Heilige  Nacht,&quot;  all  of  which  he  played  &quot;with  the  left  hand,  too,&quot;  as  Babushka  never  failed  to  point  out,  by  which  she  meant  she  had  some-  how  taught  him  to  shift  from  the  tonic  to  the  dominant  and  back  again.  Hopes  of  musical  talent  were  now  indulged.  As  a  little  girl,  Valentina  Matveyevna  had  been  taken  to  hear  Pachmann  play  Chopin  at  the  St.  Petersburg  Conserva-  tory.  All  she  could  remember  of  it  was  that  Pachmann's  antics  on  the  piano  stool  had  made  the  audience  uncomfortable.  Poor  Pachmann  was  mad.  But  that  had  not  prevented  him  from  being  a  great  pianist,  had  it?  A  teacher  saidto  have  had  much  experi-  encewith  maladjusted  children  was  OCTOBER  31,  1970  found.  Slava  played  his  six  pieces  for  her  and  waited  for  the  outburst  of  ad-  miration  to  which  he  was  accustomed.  When  the  teacher  said  nothing  but  took  up  his  forearm  to  demonstrate  the  proper  position  of  the  hand  before  strik-  ing  the  note,  Slava  tossed  her  hand  away  with  a  powerful  gesture  and  once  again  went  through  his  repertoire,  wagging  his  heavy  head  and  laughing  loudly  and  harshly  all  the  time.  When  she  tried  to  steady  his  exuberant  but  es-  sentially  rhythmic  tempo  by  marking  time  with  a  pencil  on  the  edge  of  the  piano,  Slava  turned  on  her  with  bared  teeth,  snatched  the  pencil  from  her  fin-  gers,  and  broke  it  in  half.  After  this,  even  Babushka  couldn't  teach  him  any  new  pieces,  though  he  still  played  the  original  six  from  time  to  time.  Y  the  time  Slava  was  fifteen,  he  could  be  left  alone  in  the  yard  with  no  danger  that  he  would  stray  into  the  street.  He  even  earned  money  shovelling  snow  for  the  yard  woman  and  hammering  nails  into  boards  out-  side  a  carpenter's  workshop  in  the  basement.  The  foreman  soon  discov-  ered  that  Slava  was  perfectly  safe  with  saw  or  hatchet,  and  his  strength  and  endurance  made  him  a  valuable  work-  er  during  the  building  season,  though  he  couldn't  be  employed  indoors  be-  cause  his  eerie  laughter  got  on  the  other  men's  nerves.  And  you  couldn't  count  onhim;  as  soon  as  he  was  paid,  he  was  apt  to  stay  from  work  till  by  some  mysterious  urge  to  increase  his  hoard  he  went  in  search  of  another  job.  He  never  spent  his  earnings,  of  that  his  mother  and  grandmother  were  sure,  but  fora  long  time  nobody  had  any  idea  where  he  kept  them,  till  one  day  Babushka,  intent  on  mending  a  rent  in  the  pocket  of  Slava's  wadded  jacket,  came  upon  a  cache  of  paper  ru-  bles  and  small  change  in  a  corner  of  the  lining.  It  was  decided  not  to  risk  upset-  ting  Slava  by  taking  it  out;  seeing  that  the  amount  never  lessened  but  rather  increased,  the  women  got  into  a  lazy  habit  of  slipping  small  change,  some-  times  even  a  silver  ruble,  into  the  slit,  with  a  vague  idea  of  buying  something  special  for  Slava  one  day.  All  in  all,  you  could  scarcely  have  found  a  more  tranquil  home  in  the  whole  of  [REDACTED]  than  the  two  rooms  in  the  communal  apartment  on  the  ninth  floor  where  the  women  lived  and  cherished  their  helpless  charge.  Everything  went  smoothly  till  the  day  when  Babushka  was  summoned  to  [REDACTED],  to  the  bedside  of  her  daughter,  Galina.  The  women  discussed  trains  and  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  timetables  in  writing,  like  people  who  believe  there  is  a  concealed  microphone  in  every  room;  there  was  no  time  to  prepare  Slava,  and  you  never  knew  what  hetook  in-he  had  a  discon-  certing  habit  of  watching  lips.  They  packed  hastily  when  Slava  was  asleep,  and  at  midnight  Babushka  kissed  his  pure  forehead  and  tiptoed  out  of  the  room.  Valentina  Matveyevna,  who  had  arranged  a  week's  leave  from  the  of-  fice,  thought  Slava  looked  strangely  at  her  when  she  sat  down  to  breakfast  with  him.  It's  not  Sunday,  his  look  seemed  to  say.  (Pulling  yesterday  from  the  calendar  was  Slava's  duty  and  privilege,  and  he  always  knew  when  it  was  Sunday-Sundays  were  red.}  The  only  other  sign  that  he  knew  something  was  amiss  was  a  rapid  glance  over  his  mother's  shoulder  every  time  she  came  into  the  room.  But  he  said  nothing  about  Babushka,  and  Valentina  Mat-  veyeyna  said  nothing.  Waiting  for  Slava's  lead  had  become  second  nature.  After  breakfast,  Slava  allowed  him-  self  to  be  dressed  for  go-  ing  out  without  a  word  and  followed  his  mother  with  his  usual  docility  in  and  out  of  the  milk  shop,  the  bread  store,  and  into  the  vegetable  store,  but  when  she  turned  from  the  fruit  counter  Slava  was  nowhere  to  be  seen.  No-  body  in  the  store  had  no-  ticed  him,  but  some  little  boys  outside  said  they  had  seen  him  cross  the  road  and  get  on  a  tram.  &quot;VERYWHERE,&quot;  Valentina  Matve-  yeyna  said.  &quot;I've  tried  ev-  erywhere-the  hospitals,  the  police  station,  the  streetcar  depots,  the  bus  parks,  the  railway  stations.  Nobody  has  seen  him.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  try  Odes-  sa,&quot;  Babushka  said.  Her  daughter  had  recovered  and  she  had  come  back  to  [REDACTED]  as  soon  as  she  got  Valentina  Matveyevna's  telegram.  The  neighbors  had  advised  Valentina  Matveyevyna  not  to  send  for  Babushka;  it  would  only  upset  her,  and  what  could  Slava's  grandmoth-  er  do  that  his  mother  hadn't  done?  ButVa-  lentina  Matveyevna  had  sent  a  telegram  just  the  same;  she  knew  it  was  what  Babushka  would  have  wanted  her  to  do.  And  when  she  arrived  Ba-  bushka  had  not  asked  a  single  question.  All  she  had  said  was  &quot;You  didn't  try  Odessa.&quot;  Neighbors  crowding  into  the  hall  folded  their  arms  and  shook  their  heads  compassionately.  The  poor  old  thing!  &quot;He's  gone  to  look  for  me,&quot;  Ba-  bushka  said.  Nobody  believed  Slava  capable  of  finding  his  way  to  the  railway  station  and  ordering  a  ticketto  Odessa  till  Babushka  brought  out  of  the  top  drawer  of  the  bureau  an  old  candy  box  in  which,  neatly  arranged,  were  used  tickets  and  a  pile  of  &quot;rubles&quot;  and  card-  board  coins  that  had  come  with  a  shop-  ping  game.  Playing  at  &quot;going  to  the  dacha&quot;  had  been  almost  a  daily  occu-  pation.  &quot;And  where  did  he  getthe  mon-  ey?&quot;  they  asked.  Valentina  Matvevevna  flung  herself  on  the  quilted  jacket  hanging  from  a  hook  in  the  hall  and  thrust  her  hand  45  deep  into  the  pocket.  Her  groping  fingers  brought  out  nothing  but  a  soiled  lump  with  a  two-kopeck  coin  sticking  to  it.  The  money  had  been  in  its  hiding  place  the  night  before-Valentina  Mat-  veyevna  was  sure  of  that.  She  had  put  a  paper  ruble  and  a  three-kopeck  piece  into  the  slit  when  clearing  her  pocket-  book  after  Babushka  had  left.  The  next  day,  Valentina  Matveyevna  started  for  Odessa,  afraid  that  if  she  didn't  Babushka  would  go.  As  soon  as  she  arrived,  she  went  straight  to  the  lit-  tle  street  on  the  outskirts  where  Slava  was  born.  The  house  wasn't  there  any-  more,  the  street  wasn't  there  anymore;  all  had  been  swallowed  up  by  high  ten-  ements  that  enclosed  the  original  yard,  with  no  grasses  and  bushes  waving  in  the  breeze-nothing  but  asphalt  and  garbage  cans.  Not  quite  nothing.  In  a  corner  of  the  yard  was  a  shedValentina  Matveyevyna  remembered.  She  made  {}{or  it  instinctively  and  was  immediately  hot  on  Slava's  tracks.  For  in  the  door-  way  stood  an  ancient  crone  peering  acrossthe  yard,  and  when  Valentina  Matveyevna  came  closer  she  recog-  nized  the  younger  of  the  two  old  ladies  from  up-  stairs  in  the  now  vanished  house  where  she  had  lived  for  the  first  ten  yearsof  Slava's  life.  Old  Rosa  told  her  that  she  had  refused  to  go  out  of  the  yard  when  the  street  of  small  houses  was  demolished  to  make  room  for  the  new  build-  ings,  and  they  had  allowed  her  to  move  into  the  shed  and  even  have  a  stove  put  in.  Valentina  Matveyevna  was  surprised  to  see  how  snug  she  had  made  it;  the  shiny  samovar,  the  Bo-  khara  rugs  on  the  wall,  two  nineteenth-century  por-  traits  in  heavy  gilt  frames  gave  it  quite  a  prosperous,  notto  say  aristocratic,  look.  And  there,  it  ap-  peared,  Slava  had  found  her;  he  had  always  loved  to  play  in  the  shed,  and,  like  his  mother,  had  gone  to  it  instinctively  in  the  shadow  of  the  new  houses.  He  stayed  withher  two  days,  Rosa  said;  she  fed  him  and  washed  his  clothes-and  oh,  how  hungry  and  dirty  the  poor  lad  was-and  on  the  third  day  he  went  away  with  a  wayfaring  tinker  who  had  " b"just  finished  three  days  mending  sauce-  pans  in  the  yard.  She  thought  they  went  on  a  steamer.  The  militia  in  Odessa  were  sure  they  would  find  Slava  if  he  was  any-  where  on  the  islands,  but  by  the  time  they  got  in  touch  with  local  authorities  the  scent  was  cold.  A  boy  who  had  worked  some  time  for  the  tinker  on  the  outskirts  of  a  kolkhoz  had  sudden-  ly  left;  people  could  only  remember  of  him  that  he  laughed  at  his  work.  After  visiting  the  hospitals  and  railway  sta-  tions  (even  the  prisons),  there  was  nothing  for  Valentina  Matveyevna  to  do  but  go  back  to  [REDACTED].  Old  Rosa  had  wrapped  a  card  with  Slava's  home  address  on  it  in  a  hand-  kerchief  and  put  it  into  his  pocket  while  he  slept;  he  must  have  shown  it  in  the  places  where  he  stayed,  be-  cause  from  time  to  time  over  the  years  news  came  in  illiterate  scrawls  ofa  &quot;man&quot;&quot;  who  had  worked  three  months,  six  months,  in  a  remote  village,  and  gone  away.  Babushka  and  Valentina  Matveyevna  followed  Slava's  itinerary  as  best  they  could  on  the  map  by  the  help  of  the  postmarks.  &quot;He's  working  his  way  back,&quot;  Babushka  said.  &quot;He's  coming  back  to  us.&quot;  Once,  a  snapshot  of  a  tall  figure  grasping  a  rake  in  a  cornfield  came;  they  recognized  Slava's  deep  mindless  eyes  in  the  mustached  and  bearded  face,  his  small  neat  ears  flattened  against  the  closely  cropped  head-and  wept.  Soon  after,  Babushka  died.  ALINA  VLADIMIROYNA  came  to  [REDACTED]  for  her  mother's  funeral.  The  sisters-in-law  scarcely  knew  one  another,  but  each  had  an  intimate  knowledge  of  the  other's  sad  life  (Ga-  lina  had  her  own  tragedy,  more  com-  mon  but  no  less  painful  than  Valen-  tina's).  The  day  of  the  funeral  they  talked  far  intothe  night,  fascinated  by  a  relationship  made  up  of  intimacy  and  strangeness.  Yes,  they  went  to  bed  early  aftera  cozy  supper  the  day  they  fol-  lowed  Babushka  to  the  grave,  and  left  the  door  open  between  the  two  rooms.  &quot;I  don't  remember  that  I  ever  slept  in  a  room  all  to  myself,&quot;  Galina  said.  &quot;Do  you  think  they'll  leave  you  both  rooms,  Valya?&quot;  Valentina  told  her  the  question  wouldn't  even  be  raised;  Slava's  name  had  never  been  officially  removed  from  the  register,  and  the  second  room  was  tiny  and  could  only  be  reached  through  her  own  room.  Nobody  could  be  put  into  it.  &quot;Couldn't  they  offer  you  one  room  instead  of  two?&quot;  Valentina  didn't  let  this  worry  her.  The  room  was  Slava's,  and  oneday  Slava  would  come  back  and  claim  it.  &quot;Valya,  darling,  do  you  still  really  believe  Slava  will  come  back?&quot;  Valya  was  sure  of  it;  he  would  come  back  to  his  own  home,  as  he  had  gone  back  to  the  old  home  in  Odessa.  Shuddering,  Galina  envisaged  a  Ne-  anderthal  figure  plodding  over  plains  and  hills,  through  towns  and  villages,  toward  his  mother  in  far-off  [REDACTED].  &quot;Why  don't  you  marry  again,  Valya?&quot;  Galina  asked  on  a  sudden  impulse.  &quot;I  told  you.  I'm  waiting  for  Slava  to  come  back.  I  can't  expect  a  man  to  live  in  the  same  apartment  with  Slava.  His  own  father  couldn't.&quot;  &quot;Yuri  told  me  he  never  loved  you  more  than  when  you  refused  to  send  Slava  to  a  Home.  It  was  just  that  he  couldn't  stand  living  with  the  poor  boy.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  said  Valentina.  &quot;I  never  blamed  him.&quot;  &quot;I  think  it  broke  his  heart  when  you  chose  to  give  your  life  to  Slava  and  not  to  him.&quot;  &quot;He  married  again  within  year,&quot;  Valentina  said  shortly.  &quot;And  why  couldn't  you-after  all  these  years?&quot;  &quot;Why  are  you  so  eager  for  me  to  get  married,  Galya?  Have  you  found  mar-  riage  so  satisfactory?  I  should  have  thought  you  would  envy  me  my  free-  dom.&quot;  &quot;I  havebeen  unfortunate,&quot;  Galya  said.  &quot;Everybody  doesn't  have  such  bad  luck  asI  had.&quot;  She  pushed  a  tear  out  of  the  corner  of  each  eye  with  a  sidewiseactionof  the  heels  of  her  the  " b"palms;  much  as  she  liked  talking  about  her  woes,  she  did  not  mean  to  be  led  away  from  the  subjectof  her  sister-in-  law's  life.  So  she  said,  &quot;I  can't  see  what  use  you  make  of  your  freedom.&quot;  &quot;I  do  my  best,&quot;  Valya  said.  &quot;I  only  won't  let  any  man  come  here.  I  wouldn't  while  Babushka  was  alive,  and  I  still  won't  as  long  as  there's  a  possibility  of  Slava  coming  back.&quot;  Galya  turned  and  looked  at  her  sister-in-law  through  the  doorway,  eyes  now  perfectly  dry  and  wide  open,  round.  &quot;Oh,  so  you  do  have  some-  body!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;I  had  no  idea.&quot;  &quot;For  goodness  sake,  Galya.  Did  you  take  me  for  a  nun?&quot;  Galya  went  back  to  her  own  par-  ticular  tragedy  in  [REDACTED],  nothing  more  was  heard  of  Slava,  and  Valentina  Matveyevna  went  to  work  every  morn-  ing  and  came  back  every  evening  as  usual.  Galya,  who  should  have  known  better,  made  a  halfhearted  attack  on  her  sister-in-law's  freedom.  She  al-  ready  had  three  children,  and  a  few  months  after  her  return  the  poor  foolish  woman  found  herself  again  pregnant-  she  who  never  tired  of  saying  how  she  detested  and  despised  her  deplorable  husband.  &quot;Oh,  Valya,&quot;  she  wrote,  &quot;I  can  hardly  bear  to  say  it,  but  perhaps  after  all  you  could  take  Natasha  to  live  withyou!  She's  only  two,  and  she's  such  an  affectionate  little  thing  you'd  soon  get  used  to  each  other,  I  mean  I  wouldn't  ask  you  to  take  one  of  the  others,  they're  too  difficult  already.  But  I'm  sure  it  would  be  no  trauma  for  Natashka.  The  new  baby  would  be  much  more  of  a  trauma.  [Galya  had  written  &quot;shock&quot;  but  was  happy  to  cross  it  out  and  use  the  more  fashionable  term.]  Even  if  Slava  came  back,  it  would  be  all  right,  I  mean  not  like  him  finding  a  man  beside  you,  that  I  can  understand  would  be  too  hard,  dear  Valya.  Oh,  Valya,  you  can  under-  stand  how  desperate  I  must  be  before  I  could  ask  this.  .  ..&quot;  And  a  man  who  had  been  happy  enough  for  years  in  a  gentle  and  unde-  manding  union  with  her  now  felt  that  the  occasional  weekend  in  the  coun-  try,  the  month  in  the  south  were  not  enough;  his  whole  happiness  depended  on  living  all  the  time  with  Valentina  Matveyevna,  now  that  this  was  made  possible  by  her  mother-in-law's  death.  He  did  not  get  his  way,  and  as  a  result  they  drifted  apart.  By  now  Valentina  Matveyevna  was  beginning  to  think  she  wanted  nothing  more  from  any  man.  She  settled  down  peacefully  to  wait  for  Slava.  "