 THE  BROWNING~-OFF  OF  PELH  AM  MANOR  (WRITTEN  AFTER  L  OSING  CONS  C  IOUS  N  ESS  As  THE  R  ESULT  OF  A  T  OO  CLOSE  STUDY  OF  TH  E  REFL  ECTIONS  OF  C  HA  R  LE  S  A.  REIC  H  )  ACHIEVED  Unconsciousness  I  before  I  knew  anything  was  up.  I  was  in  the  womb  and  restless  all  during  Unconsciousness  I.  The  thing  was  badly  designed,  ill-ventilated,  and  on  top  of  that  I  failed  to  relate  to  my  mother.  Hers  was  just  like  every  other  womb-no  character  of  its  own,  unless  you  want  to  count  me.  A  person  can't  develop  properly  in  a  womb  that's  just  like  every  other  womb  all  up  and  down  the  block.  It's  impossible.  When  I  finally  escaped  from  Un-  consciousness  I  and  achieved  Uncon-  sciousness  II,  I  couldn't  believe  that  there  could  ever  be  anything  else.  My  life  style  was  apparent  the  minute  I  was  delivered:  I  was  born  with  a  corpora-  tion.  Old  Dr.  Campbell  noticed  it  right  away.  &quot;Look  at  his  little  fat  belly,&quot;  he  said  to  my  mother.  &quot;He's  got  a  cor-  poration  already.&quot;  &quot;That's  his  natural  corporate  state,&quot;  replied  Mother.  &quot;You  can't  blame  the  little  fellow.  He's  had  things  pretty  good  for  nine  months;  why  shouldn't  he  plump  up  a  bit  around  the  middle?&quot;  Mother  always  took  my  side  in  every-  thing.  I  played  Unconsciousness  II  to  the  hilt.  It  was  a  fabulous  time-every-  body  busy,  a  big  war  on,  a  round  of  cotillions  and  Loew's  State,  plenty  of  racial  discrimination,  [REDACTED]  really  on  the  move,  plenty  of  status  for  those  who  wanted  it,  plenty  of  status  quo  for  those  who  didn't.  A  memorable  time.  I  could  have  gone  on  indefinitely  in  Un-  consciousness  II.  But  the  handwriting  was  on  the  wall.  It  was  clear  that  things  were  crumbling  all  around.  You  could  feel  it  at  the  dances  at  the  West-  chester  Woman's  Club.  The  milk  wag-  on  lost  its  horse  and  the  early  sound.  The  sprinkling  cart  lost  its  water  and  the  smell  of  dust  laid.  Father  lost  his  shirt.  Unconsciousness  II  was  my  sig-  nal  to  get  moving,  and  in  a  forward  direction.  Once  you  have  achieved  Un-  consciousness  II,  there  is  no  turning  back.  You  have  to  go  on,on.  But  where?  Where?  My  thoughts  had  been  turning  more  and  more  to  Pelham  Manor.  And  it  was  there,  in  Pelham  Manor,  that  I  found  my  identity.  I  was  on  my  bike  at  the  time,  on  my  way  to  go  swimming  in  the  Sound.  I  had  recently  changed  my  sartorial  style-did  it  quite  abrupt-  ly.  Started  having  my  shirts  cut  to  measure  and  my  suits  built  by  a  custom  tailor.  I  became  impeccable,  Impecca-  bility,  it  would  seem,  was  my  thing.  I  even  had  my  shoes  made,  in  [REDACTED].  At  last  people  knew  what  my  feet  real-  ly  looked  like.  It  made  all  the  differ-  ence,  with  those  eleven  toes.  But  Unconsciousness  I  and  Uncon-  sciousness  II  are  just  the  prelude  for  the  great  time-Unconsciousness  II.  It  was  a  drug  that  released  me.  I  had  grown  quite  old,  quite  stupid,  and  my  hay  fever  was  becoming  increasingly  bothersome.  Naturally,  I  leaned  toward  the  antihistamines,  and  of  course  they  are  drowsy-making.  One  afternoon  in  mid-July,  in  that  fateful  year,  I  fell  asleep  at  the  wheel  of  my  car  while  on  a  trip.  Unconsciousness  III  had  gathered  me  to  its  arms.  At  last,  all  the  banalities  and  inequities  of  my  cor-  porate  past  were  gone.  T  was  out  cold.  I'd  be  out  still  if  my  car  hadn't  left  the  highway  and  hit  a  power  pole  and  a  telephone  pole,  in  that  order.  This  brought  me  to  and  put  me  in  the  hos-  pital,  where  I  belonged.  But  the  mem-  ory  of  Unconsciousness  III  lingers,  like  a  faint  and  sweet  aroma.  Nepenthe.  Sleep.  Loss  of  steering.  Absence  of  material  things.  Total  bliss.  The  force  of  the  collision  broke  both  poles  and  knocked  out  all  the  power  and  all  the  phones  in  Pelham  Manor.  My  car  had  got  the  power  structure  right  in  the  groin.  Things  were  never  the  same  again  in  Pelham  Manor-     this  was  what  the  place  had  needed  all  along.  Without  power  there  were  no  appliances  to  get  out  of  whack.  With-  out  light  to  read  by,  advertisements  lost  their  knack  of  making  people  feel  unhappy  or  inferior.  It  was  a  time  of  new  birth  for  Pelham  Manor-the  warm  deep  freeze,  the  dead  phone,  the  stilled  water  pump,  the  darkened  tele-  vision.  Lassitude  flowered.  Commuters  no  longer  rode  into  the  city  only  to  be  mude  unhappy  in  high  offices.  Every-  body  loved  everybody.  The  antago-  nisms  derived  from  affluence  were  gone.  Students  loved  the  police.  Children  loved  their  parents.  Agnew  loved  the  radic-libs.  (He  loved  some  of  them  so  much  he  ate  them.)  Arab  loved  Jew.  Everywhere  there  was  lack  of  discrimi-  nation,lack  of  current,  absence  of  material  values,  lack  of  telephoning.  Men  stayed  home  and  raked  leaves.  The  insufferable  sameness  of  green  lawns  became  merely  a  pleasant  brown-  ing-off.  Ivy  that  had  been  stifling  the  people  of  Pelham  Manor  curled  up  and  lost  its  grip.  Pelham  Manor  browned  off  like  a  piece  of  toast  in  a  broken  pop-up.  It  was  a  time  of  wonder  and  fulfillment  in  Westchester  County,  and  all  because  of  me-a  stupid  old  drowsy  man  in  a  custom-built  suit  and  an  un-  guided  automobile.  How  strange  life  is  in  [REDACTED]! "