"APARTHEID  ,  I  \\HE  Sorokins  rented  a  different  dacha  every  year;  Oleg  said  there  would  be  something  wrong  in  each,  so  they  might  as  well  have  stuck  to  the  first  one,  but  Lili  always  hoped  to  find  the  perfect  dacha.  The  one  they  chanced  on  this  summer  was  practically  an  ideal  spot-not  too  far  from  [REDACTED]  for  Oleg  to  commute,  and  quite  countrified  when  you  got  away  from  the  shops  beside  the  station.  They-the  Sorokins,  that  is-rented  a  room  and  a  glazed  porch  in  the  front  half  of  a  dacha  standing  on  a  spacious  plot,  the  owner  retreating  to  the  back  of  the  house  with  Milochka,  her  four-  year-old  granddaughter.  The  proximi-  ty  rather  worried  Lili  (you  never  know  with  other  people's  children)  till  she  discovered  that  the  gate  in  the  fence  be-  tween  the  front  garden  and  backyard  was  agate  in  name  alone;  it  was  shrouded  in  poultry  wire,  its  rust-de-  voured  hinges  would  never  again  turn  in  the  sockets,  and  the  latch  was  ground  permanently  in  its  groove.  The  fence  itself  was  reinforced  by  dense  thickets  of  unpruned  raspberry  canes  and  goose-  berry  bushes;  the  potentially  undesir-  able  Milochka  could  not  break  through  and  fraternize,  and  visitors  to  her  grandmother  who  came  to  the  front  entrance  of  the  dacha  had  to  be  waved  away  and  instructed  to  walk  to  the  end  of  the  block  and  turn  the  corner.  Isola-  tion  couldn't  have  been  more  complete.  It  was  isolation,  chiefly  for  the  chil-  dren's  sake,  that  Lili  desired.  Most  of  her  friends  sent  their  children  to  state  cr\xc3\xa9eches  and  kindergartens,  but  Lili  didn't  intend  to  surrender  her  power  till  her  children  were  old  enough  to  go  to  school,  when  she  knew  she  would  have  to.  She  knew  that  it  was  the  first  five  years  of  life  that  count  andwas  determined  to  use  these  formative  years  (stretched  to  seven)  to  instill  good  manners  and  the  elements  of  French  in  Valya  and  Fedya,  never  doubting  her  adequacy  for  the  task.  She  took  them  to  the  boulevard  every  day  in  the  winter,  herself  sitting  patiently  on  a  bench  among  grandmothers  and  nurse-  girls,  whose  charges  were  never  out  of  sight  for  a  moment.  At  the  dacha  Lili  could  relax,  knowing  that  Valya  and  Fedya,  though  not  particularly  obe-  dient  children,  would  never  go  into  the  street  by  themselves.  But  it  isn't  so  easy  to  isolate  children  who  can  see  and  hear  one  another-even  if  only  through  a  locked  gate  covered  from  corner  to  corner  by  wire  netting.  Valya  and  Fedya  soon  found  a  gap  where  the  wire  had  worked  loose  on  one  side,     through  which  small  objects--a  toy  wristwatch,  a  safety  pin  with  colored  beads  threaded  on  its  shaft,  a  varnished  pawn,  all  the  surrealistic  litter  that  accumulates  in  playboxes  (and  work-  boxes)-could  be  pushed.  Valya  and  Fedya  had  great  quantities  of  play-  things  in  various  stages  of  disrepair,  but  Milochka's  toys  were  stored  away  in  a  shoebox  and  carried  into  the  house  ev-  ery  evening;  as  a  rule,  she  only  brought  two  to  the  trysting  place-a  one-legged  celluloid  duck  and  some  odd  playing  cards.  Duck  was  a  very  inconvenient  toy-he  couldn't  stand  and  he  was  too  lumpy  to  lie  either  on  his  back  or  on  his  side-but  Milochka,  abetted  by  Val-  ya  and  Fedya,  tied  bows  round  his  neck  and  his  one  ankle,  and  bound  colored  rags  over  his  slippery  head;  the  con-  nivance  of  Valya  and  Fedya  consisted  in  thrusting  ribbons  and  Lili's  best  pocket  handkerchiefs  through  the  gap  for  Duck's  adornment.  Both  sides  were  fully  involved  when  the  playing  cards  came  one  by  one  out  of  the  box.  Lili  was  fascinated  to  hear  Milochka's  long  monologues  as  she  held  a  single  card  against  the  netting,  interrupted  every  now  and  then  by  a  question  from  Valya  (three-year-old  Fedya  never  said  a  word,  only  looking  into  his  sister's  face  whenever  she  spoke).  Lili  longed  to  know  what  it  was  all  about,  but  all  she  could  gather  from  Valya  was  thatthe  court  cards  were  portraits  of  Milochka's  relatives.  Lili  began  to  wish  Milochka  could  play  in  the  garden  with  her  own  chil-  dren.  She  asked  her  landlady  if  she  didn't  think  Milochka  needed  the  so-  ciety  of  other  children.  Paulina  Efimovna  said  Milochka  could  play  with  her  own  toys  and  books.  &quot;Your  children  have  one  an-  other,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;They  don't  need  Mi-  lochka.  People  have  different  ideas  of  bringing  up  children.&quot;  Lili  reddened.  &quot;I  only  meant  Milo-  chka's  alone  all  day,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Didn't     35  you  ever  think  of  sending  her  to  a  kindergarten?&quot;  &quot;I  sent  her  to  a  creche  and  she  got  measles,&quot;  Paulina  Efimovna  said.  &quot;Then  I  sent  her  to  a  kindergarten  and  she  got  whooping  cough.&quot;  This,  of  course,  made  Milochka  a  still  more  desirable  playmate,  and  Lili  had  difficultyin  concealing  her  delight  and  forcing  her  features  into  lines  of  decent  commiseration.  &quot;JT  WONDER  why  Paulina  Efimoy-  na  doesn't  want  Milochka  to  play  with  our  children,&quot;  Lili  said  to  her  husband.  &quot;It  was  you  who  didn't  want  it,&quot;  Oleg  reminded  her.  &quot;You  let  her  see  that  from  the  very  first  day.&quot;  &quot;How  could  I  know  Milochka  would  be  such  a  darling?  She  might  be  a  very  good  influence  on  our  Valya.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  Paulina  Efimovna  is  afraid  our  Valya  might  not  be  a  very  good  influence  on  Milochka.&quot;  Going  about  the  dachas,  picking  up  a  pound  of  strawberries  at  one,  a  pint  of  milk  at  another,  Lili  also  picked  up  a  hint  or  two  about  her  landlady's  past.  All  that  was  known  for  certain  was  that  Paulina  Efimovna  had  left  the  village  thirty  years  before,  and  had  come  back  to  Stepanovka  with  a  baby  grandchild  in  time  to  gladden  the  last  two  years  of  her  own  aged  mother's  life.  Manfully,  unaided,  Paulina  Ef-  movna  had  patched  and  propped  the  tottering  dacha  till  the  front  room  was  fit  to  let.  With  the  rent  money,  she  was  able  to  pay  for  fundamental  re-  pairs.  In  another  five  years,  she  would  be  out  of  the  woods.  E1  had  to  go  to  the  market  several  times  a  week.  It  was  a  change  from  the  exacting  society  of  young  children  and  she  rather  enjoyed  wan-  dering  from  stall  to  stall,  pricing  fruit  and  vegetables.  On  Saturdays,  Oleg  went  with  her  to  carry  back  potatoes  and  vegetables.  Lili  never  took  Valya  and  Fedya  with  her  to  shops  or  the  market-it  was  another  of  her  strict  rules-and  now  she  could  leave  them  behind  without  anxiety;  Milochka  was  as  good  as  a  nurse.  One  Saturday,  Lil's  roving  gaze  was  arrested  by  a  doll  dangling  from  a  hook  on  the  post  of  a  haberdashery  booth.  She  needed  hairpins  and  stopped  Oleg,  but  what  she  really  wanted  was  to  geta  better  look  at  the  doll.  It  was  an  exceptional  doll,  with  an  expression  of  grave  kindness  on  its  rosy  face,  and  it  had  dense  black  eyelashes  and  chest-  nut  curls;  its  clothes  were  fastened  by  exquisite  small  buttons,  so  that  it  could  " b"36  be  dressed  and  undressed  like  a  real  child,  and  its  shoes  and  socks  were  not  just  painted  on  the  feet  but  were  made  of  real  goods.  The  saleswoman,  who  had  been  tatting  flimsy  edging  at  the  back  of  the  booth,  now  came  up  to  them.  &quot;A  foreign  doll,&quot;  she  said  and  showed  them  its  name-Greta-on  the  price  ticket.  Then,  sure  of  her  custom-  ers,  she  went  back  to  her  tatting.  The  doll  packed  in  its  box  and  paid  for,Lili  was  eager  to  leave  the  mar-  ket.  But  the  sight  of  an  old  man  sell-  ing  reed  besoms  at  the  entrance  stopped  her  again.  A  new  besom  has  an  insidi-  ous  charm  all  its  own,  and  Lili  tried  to  check  her  husband's  urgent  stride  with  a  hand  on  his  wrist.  But  he  went  straight  on,  and  she  would  have  fol-  lowed  if  she  hadn't  caught  sight  of  a  miniature  besom  displayed  all  by  itself  on  a  flat  stone,  a  mere  whisk  finished  off  with  a  crimson  tassel,  with  three  rows  of  crimson  silk  dividing  the  ro-  coco  bulges  of  the  handle.  Oleg  looked  back  and  Lili  held  it  out  in  silence  for  him  to  see.  What  was  it  for,  he  want-  ed  to  know.  The  old  man  lifted  his     head  to  enlighten  them:  it  was  for  dusting  wall  carpets  or  carpet  table-  cloths.  Saying  they  had  none,  Oleg  steered  his  wife  out  of  the  market  with  a  hand  under  her  elbow.  When  he  saw  the  bus  wasn't  even  in  sight,  he  put  down  the  bag  of  potatoes  and  went  back  to  buy  the  little  besom;  he  was  ashamed  of  his  surliness,  knowing  very  well  that  he  might  have  bought  it  himself  if  he  had  been  alone,  or  even  if  he  had  happened  to  catch  sight  of  it  before  his  wife  had.  On  the  way  home  in  the  bus,  Lili  carefully  removed  the  price  tag  from  the  doll's  skirt.  She  had  decided  to  call  it  H\xc3\xa9loise  so  as  not  to  confuse  the  children,  who  thought  the  only  language  in  the  world  but  Rus-  sian  was  French.  Not  for  a  moment  must  they  be  allowed  to  have  a  doll  with  a  German  name.  VALYA  scarcely  gave  herself  time  to  take  in  the  beauties  of  H\xc3\xa9loifse  be-  fore  she  was  off  to  the  fence,  holding  her  up  for  Milochka  to  kiss.  Lili  knew  H\xc3\xa9loise  would  never  look  new  again,  but  the  sight  of  those  remote,  passionate    kisses  and  Valya's  earnest  attention  overcame  for  a  moment  her  possessive  instincts  and  she  said  not  a  word  of  re-  proof.  &quot;If  only  that  stiff-necked  fe-  male  would  let  me  buy  Milochka  a  doll!&quot;  she  moaned.  That  had  been  tried.  Oleg  had  thrown  a  little  ball  over  the  fence  to  Milochka  the  day  he  brought  Valya  and  Fedya  a  big  one,  and  though  Paulina  Efimovna  had  not  actually  wrenched  it  from  Mi-  lochka's  grasp  she  effectively  inhibited  further  charitable  impulses:  &quot;Milo-  chka  doesn't  need  presents.&quot;  Lili  had  at  first  been  too  busy  to  do  more  than  take  perishables  out  of  her  market  bag,  but  in  the  evening,  when  the  children  were  in  bed,  she  be-  thought  herself  of  the  whisk.  She  knew  better  than  to  ask  Paulina  Efimovna  if  she  had  seen  it,  but  was  thoughtless  cnough  to  call  to  her  husband  across  the  porch,  &quot;Oleg,  I  can't  find  the  whisk,  Did  you  take  it  out  of  the  bag?&quot;  An  abrupt  sound  from  the  back  of  the  house  reminded  her  that  Paulina  Ef-  movna  could  hear  every  word  said  on  the  porch.  &quot;I  wish  I  hadn't  spoken  so  loud,&quot;  she  said  to  Oleg.  &quot;You  should  think  before  speak.&quot;  &quot;You  know  I  can't.&quot;  &quot;You  can.  You  never  have  an  ac-  cident  with  the  kettle  because  you've  trained  your  hands  to  be  careful.  You  can  train  your  tongue,  too.&quot;  Lili  approached  the  table  with  the  kettle  in  her  hand.  &quot;Are  you  quite  sure  you're  not  being  rather  a  prig?&quot;  she  asked,  neatly  controlling  the  flow  of  the  boiling  water  into  the  tiny  opening  on  top  of  the  Japanese  teapot.  Oleg  didn't  answer,  only  smiled  as  he  slipped  a  wafer  of  lemon  into  his  tea.  They  drank  in  silence,  helping  them-  selves  to  a  teaspoon  of  jam  between  swallows  of  tea.  When  Lili  got  up  to  pour  second  glasses,  she  heard  a  sound  from  the  other  side  of  the  door  that  connected  the  rooms;  it  made  her  put  the  kettle  down.  She  turned  and  beck-  oned  to  Oleg,  so  urgently  that  he  joined  her.  &quot;What?&quot;  he  began,  but  she  held  up  a  finger,  and  he  fell  in  with  her  listening  pose.  What  they  heard  was  a  woman  sobbing.  Lili  stooped  to  the  keyhole.  &quot;Paulina  Efimovna,  what's  the  matter?&quot;  The  sobbing  stopped  for  a  moment,  but  began  again,  loud,  uncontrollable.  &quot;Paulina  Efimovna,  open  the  door!  Let  me  come  to  you!&quot;  The  sobbing  went  on  as  if  it  couldn't  stop.  Lili  handed  Oleg  a  knife,  and  after  a  questioning  look  he  inserted  the  tip  under  the  latch  on  the  other  side.  you  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Pushing  the  door  open  gently,  they  both  stepped  into  the  room.  What  they  saw  made  them  first  step  back,  then  go  farther  in.  Paulina  Efimovna,  still  sobbing,  was  leaning  over  the  cot  in  the  corner.  Milochka  was  fast  asleep,  one  hand  resting  on  what  Lili  at  first  took  to  be  a  doll  tucked  snugly  in  beside  her  but  quickly  recognized  to  be  the  missing  whisk,  a  square  of  flowered  silk  knotted  under  the  top  bulge  of  the  handle,  like  a  kerchief  tied  under  a  chin.  Oleg  moved  closer  and  jerked  Pau-  lina  Efimovna  away  just  in  time  to  stop  her  pulling  the  whisk  from  under  Milochka's  hand.  &quot;Give  me  a  hatchet!&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;I'm  going  to  knock  a  hole  in  that  blasted  fence.&quot;  Strangely  submissive,  Paulina  Efimovna  moved  toward  a  low  closet,  but  Lili  begged  Oleg  to  wait  till  morning;  it  might  take  longer  than  he  expected  to  break  down  the  fence.  &quot;We  found  a  use  for  the  whisk,&quot;  Oleg  said  when  they  were  back  on  the  porch.  &quot;Didn't  you  think  Milochka's  cheeks  were  a  bit  bricky?&quot;  Lili  asked.  (Till  now,  they  had  never  seen  Milochka's  features  except  through  the  wire  net-  ting,  and  reality  was  a  little  harsher  than  imagination  had  suggested.  Wom-  en  were  fools  to  have  allowed  veils  to  go  out  of  fashion,  Lili  reflected.)  Oleg,  flushed  with  the  rare  pleasure  of  having  indulged  a  chivalrous  im-  pulse,  wasn't  going  to  have  his  Androm-  eda  denigrated.  &quot;Milochka's  a  coun-  try  child,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  none  the  worse  for  that.&quot;  [REDACTED]  was  eaten  in  a  rustic  arbor  at  the  end  of  the  garden,  and  Lili  had  the  children  dressed  and  in  their  places  before  nine  the  next  morning.  She  would  not  rouse  Oleg-he  had  a  right  to  get  up  as  late  as  he  liked  on  a  Sun-  day-but  she  longed  to  have  the  cere-  mony  of  breaking  down  the  fence  over  as  soon  as  possible.  Since  it  had  been  announced  and  tacitly  consented  to  by  Paulina  Efimovna,  decency  (taste,  anyhow  )  required  that  it  be  done  quickly.  &quot;Go  and  tell  Papa  breakfast's  ready,&quot;  she  said  to  Valya.  Valya  slipped  obediently  from  her  seat  and  tiptoed  up  the  steps  to  the  porch.  She  was  back  again  in  a  mo-  ment.  &quot;Papa  says  he's  asleep.&quot;  It  was  a  hallowed  family  joke,  but  Lili  only  frowned  and  bit  her  lip.  &quot;Who  gave  Milochka  the  whisk?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  just  held  it  up  to  her  and  she  looked  at  it  so  ..  .&quot;  Lili  understood  that  Milochka's  glance  had  been  compelling.  The  chil-     dren  ran  off  to  the  gate,  and  still  Oleg  didn't  appear.  Lili  told  herself  she  wanted  to  wash  the  dishes  and  be  free,  but  in  reality  it  was  the  thought  of  hatchet  and  fence,  the  memory  of  Paulina  Efimovna's  dark  glare  that  were  gnawing  at  her  peace  of  mind.  Paulina  Efimovyna  would  think  Oleg  had  been  dissuaded  from  a  generous  act  by  his  wife,  she  might  take  back  her  unspoken  consent.  Impatiently,  Lili  began  washing  the  dishes.  The  minute  she  had,  unthinking,  run  off  all  the  water  in  the  samovar,  Oleg  was  upon  her,  demanding  hot  water  for  a  shave.  As  if  he  couldn't  shave  afterward!  As  if  he  didn't  stay  unshaved  all  Sunday  as  a  rule!  Lili  suggested  that  he'd  enjoy  his  breakfast  more  if  he  could  have  it  at  leisure.  Oleg  assured  her  that  he  fully  intended  to  enjoy  his  breakfast  at  his  leisure.  He  would  do  it  his  own  way,  Lili  knew,  and  she  began  tidying  the  children's  room  and  the  porch,  onlygo-  ing  out  to  the  arbor  when  she  felt  sure  her  husband  must  have  shaved  and  fin-  ished  breakfast.  Oleg  was  peacefully  reading  Saturday's  paper,  a  half-smoked  cigarette  propped  against  his  saucer.  He  looked  up  when  she  came  to  the  table.  &quot;Let's  hear  the  news.  Bring  the  box,  will  you?&quot;  In  silent  fury,  Lili  went  for     the  transistor  and  set  it  on  the  table  next  to  his  elbow.  When  the  news  was  over,  Oleg  pushed  back  the  antenna,  ostentatious-  ly  gulped  down  the  cold  tea  in  the  bottom  of  the  glass,  let  the  newspaper  fall  on  the  grass,  and  made  one  last  at-  tempt  to  get  a  rise  out  of  his  wife.  &quot;I  ought  really  to  go  to  the  station  and  geta  Pravda,&quot;  he  said,  but  she  would  not  be  drawn,  and  he  sauntered  over  to  the  fence.  First  he  had  a  look  at  the  rust-bound  gate.  Nothing  doing  there-it  would  be  easier  to  hack  an  opening  through  the  fence.  More  watchful  than  their  parents  knew,  the  children  on  either  side  crept  nearer;  Lili  could  almost  feel  Paulina  Efimovna  peering  from  her  doorstep.  All  expected-Oleg,  too,  perhaps-a  gallant  spectacle.  Two  strokes  of  the  hatchet  would  bring  down  a  section  of  fence  and  there  would  be  a  gap  anyone  could  step  through.  But  a  glance  showed  Oleg  that  this  would  not  be  so  simple.  Before  he  could  get  near  enough  to  strike  a  blow  at  the  rotting  palings,  the  bushes  would  have  to  be  cleared.  His  thoughts  darted  to  a  spade  standing  against  the  wall,  but  Paulina  Efimovna,  who  had  come  out  of  her  house  tosee  the  fun,     " b"shook  her  head  and  went  back  for  a  two-handed  saw.  From  that  moment  till  a  way  had  been  hacked,  sawed,  and  sheared  through  the  bushes,  she  only  left  Oleg's  side  to  fetch  a  wheelbarrow,  which  she  heaped  with  spiny  branches  and  trundled  away  somewhere  behind  the  house.  Seven  times  she  took  it  away  full,  seven  times  brought  it  back  for  reloading.  The  audience  dwindled  away-Lili  to  see  to  the  dinner,  the  children  to  carry  on  their  endless  con-  verse  through  the  gate.  But  when  there  was  nothing  but  roots  between  the  hatchet  and  the  fence,  all  assembled  for  the  final  collapse.  The  atmosphere  of  anticlimax  that  had  hung  over  the  pro-  ceedings  prevailed  to  the  end,  the  pal-  ings,  too  soft  tobe  chopped,  having  to  be  plucked  out  of  the  earth  one  by  one,  with  ignominious  effort.  As  soon  as  they  lay  flat  on  the  ground,  the  chil-  dren  moved  up  to  the  ugly  gap  and  stood  staring  at  one  another  across  it.  Paulina  Efimovna  puffed  out  the  loops  of  the  white  nylon  bow  atop  Milochka's  round  skull,  and  gave  her  a  tiny,  invol-  untary  push;  Lili  half  restrained  Valya  and  Fedya  with  a  no  less  involuntary  pull  at  their  clothing.  Then  the  chil-  dren  freed  themselves  and  rushed  with  hoarse  strangled  cries  toward  one  an-  other.  NEW  life  began  at  the  dacha.  Milochka  came  every  day.  A  silent,  staring  presence,  she  haunted  the  place,  whether  Lili  was  giving  her  chil-  dren  their  meals,  feeding  them  vita-  mins,  or  striving  to  teach  them  French  fairy  tales  and  nursery  rhymes.  Milo-  chka  resolutely  refused  all  offers  of  food  and  could  not  be  persuaded  to  lis-  ten  to  or  learn  contes  and  chansons.  Her  blue  stare  antagonized  Lili,  who  didn't  get  any  fonder  of  Milochka  as  the  summer  wore  on;  if  anything,  she  disliked  the  child,  resenting  her  as-  cendancy  over  Valya.  She  read  derision  into  Milochka's  innocent  Russification  of  French  words.  Thus  &quot;Mon  fils&quot;  became  &quot;Mawfsochka,&quot;  &quot;Ma  fille&quot;  &quot;Mafiyochka&quot;-names  that  completely  replaced  Fedya  and  Valya,  so  that  soon  even  their  parents  never  called  the  children  by  any  other.  H\xc3\xa9loise  in-  evitably  became  Elochka,  and  the  little  whisk  was  always  known  as  Venichka,  SEPTEMBER  19,  1970  a  tender  adaptation  of  &quot;venik,&quot;  the  Russian  word  for  a  besom  made  of  twigs  or  reeds.  Milochka  did  not  seem  impressed  by  the  belongings  of  her  grandmother's  lodgers.  Lili  expected  her  friends  to  ig-  nore  a  cracked  mirror,  a  gap-toothed  comb,  a  regiment  of  worn,  shapeless  footwear-anything  would  do  for  just  one  more  summer  at  the  dacha-but  Milochka's  appraising  glance  exposed  them  in  all  their  squalor.  Lili  once  caught  her  pinching  the  felty  blanket  on  Valya's  bed,  for  all  the  world  like  an  old  woman  pricing  goods  at  a  flea  market.  Valya  came  to  the  supper  table  that  night  looking  sulky  and  discontent-  ed.  &quot;Milochka  says  they  had  silk  eider-  downs  in  Magadan,&quot;  she  muttered  when  her  mother  told  her  to  drink  up  her  milk.  &quot;In  Magadan,&quot;  echoed  Fedya.  The  parents  exchanged  startled  glances  over  their  children's  heads.  When  they  were  sure  the  children  were  fast  asleep,  Lili  waited  for  Oleg  to  say  something,  but  she  had  to  begin  on  the  subject  herself.  &quot;Magadan!  Could  that  mean  Paulina  Efimovna  was  in  the  labor  camp  there?&quot;  &quot;Magadan's  a  big  town,&quot;  Oleg  said,  not  lowering  his  newspaper.  &quot;There  must  bea  permanent  population,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;You  know  very  well  I'm  not  talk-  ing  about  the  town.  But  what  on  earth  can  Paulina  Efimovyna  have  done?  Perhaps  her  daughter  was  in  the  camp  and  she  went  out  to  fetch  Milochka.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps,&quot;  Oleg  said.  &quot;But  Milochka  must  have  been  a  little  baby,  and  what  does  she  mean  about  silk  eiderdowns  and  the  gilt  fur-  niture  she's  always  chattering  about?&quot;  &quot;Tales  of  a  grandmother,&quot;  Oleg  said  and  went  on  reading.  Valya's  playthings  were  gradually  exchanged  for  Milochka's  miserable  possessions.  'The  smaller  ball  replaced  the  bigger  one.  &quot;Milochka  says  it's  easi-  er  to  catch,&quot;  Valya  explained.  This  was  true,  but  where  had  the  bigger  one  disappeared  to?  Two  of  Valya's  best  picture  books  vanished  from  the  playbox,  in  which  Lili  was  disgusted  to  find  an  artificial  poppy,  an  imitation-  leather  belt  minus  the  buckle,  the  benevolent  severed  head  ofa  Teddy  bear.  &quot;And  what  is  this?&quot;  Lili  cried,  hold-  ing  up  a  strip  of  sapphire-colored  plush  embroidered  in  gilt  beads.  &quot;Milochka  said  it  would  make  a  nice  skirt  for  Elochka,&quot;  Valya  said  de-  fiantly.  And  oneday  even  Elochka  vanished,  and  in  her  cradle,  solicitously  wrapped  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  in  the  sapphire-colored  strip,  lay  Ve-  nichka.  Lili  had  to  admit  that  the  black  buttons  sewn  on  Venichka's  chubby  face  were  very  expressive.  She  under-  stood  how  it  was  that  Valyafound  her  so  sympathetic.  &quot;But  Elochka  has  very  nice  eyes,  too,&quot;  she  expostulated.  &quot;Yes,  but  they're  always  the  same.  When  I'm  sad,  Venichka  looks  sad,  and  when  I  smile  at  her  she  smiles  back.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Mafiyochka,  and  isn't  Mama  sorry  when  you're  sad?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  always  notice.  Venichka  never  doesn't.&quot;  The  taboo  against  leaving  their  own  territory  without  permission  still  held,  and  for  some  time  Valya  and  Fedya  did  notinvade  the  back  yard.  But  when  Polkan,  the  yard  dog,  stopped  snarling  at  them  and  wagged  his  tail  instead,  the  taboo  weakened  and  Lili  had  the  mortification  of  seeing  her  children  prefer  the  back  yard  to  the  lawned  and  bedded  garden.  One  morn-  ing  she  couldn't  bear  it,  especially  since  she  saw  almost  the  last  of  their  toys  being  carried  away  under  the  arms  of  Valya  and  Fedya;  she  called  to  them  to  come  back  this  minute,  and  then,  bethinking  herself  of  Paulina  Efimov-  na's  sensitive  pride,  added  in  coaxing  tones,  &quot;'You'll  be  in  Babushka's  way.&quot;  The  nights  were  beginning  to  get  chilly,  and  Lili  set  up  a  portable  cot  in  the  children's  room,  leaving  Oleg  to  sleep  alone  on  the  porch.  But  tonight,  tortured  by  the  remembrance  of  her  tactlessness,  she  crept  into  his  bed  and  told  him  what  she  had  done.  Confes-  sion,  even  the  sharp  scolding  it  brought  upon  her  (perhaps  because  of  it  ),  light-  ened  the  burden,  and  they  were  falling  asleep  in  perfect  amity  when  a  curious  intermittent  squeaking  rent  the  silence  ofthenight.  A  faint  light  showed  from  the  back  ofthe  house  and  Oleg,  sitting  up  to  look  out  of  the  window,  could  seea  figure  moving  away  in  the  dark-  ness;  a  few  seconds  later,  movement  and  sound  grew  more  distinct.  &quot;Ba-  bushka  shoving  the  wheelbarrow  back-  wards  and  forwards,&quot;  Oleg  said.  &quot;Now  she's  gone  in  and  put  out  the  light.  Sleep,  darling.&quot;  Daylight  showed  what  the  squeaking  in  the  night  had  meant.  The  gap  in  the  fence  was  loosely  filled  in  by  an  amorphous  mass  of  branches,  lifeless  but  still  thorny.  The  children,  as  if  not  noticing  anything  out  of  the  ordinary,  made  straight  for  the  gate,  and  all  morning  Lili  couldhear  Milochka's  monologue:  &quot;In  Magadan  we  had  chicken  every  day.  ..  .  In  Magadan  we  had  cream  with  our  kasha  .  ..&quot; "