A  FILM  P  I  \\HINGS  have  never  been  bet-  ter,  except  that  the  child,  one  of  the  stars  of  our  film,  has  just  been  stolen  by  vandals,  and  this  will  slow  down  the  progress  of  the  film  somewhat,  if  not  bring  it  to  a  halt.  But  might  not  this  incident,  which  is  not  without  its  own  human  drama,  be  made  part  of  the  story  line?  Julie  places  a  hand  on  the  child's  head,  in  the  vandal  camp.  &quot;The  fever  has  broken.&quot;  The  vandals  give  the  child  a  wood  doll  to  play  with,  until  night  comes.  And  suddenly  I  blunder  into  a  landing  party  from  our  ships-forty  lieutenants  all  in  white,  all  holding  their  swords  in  front  of  their  chins,  in  salute.  The  officer  in  charge  slams  his  blade  into  its  scabbard  several  times,  in  a  gesture  either  decisive  or  indecisive.  Yes,  he  will  helpus  catch  the  vandals.  No,  he  has  no  particular  plan.  Just  general  principles,  he  says.  The  Art  of  War  itself.  Whose  child  is  it?  We  forgot  to  ask,  when  we  sent  out  the  casting  call.  Perhaps  it  belongs  to  itself.  It  has  an  air  of  self-possession  quite  remarkable  in  one  so  homely,  and  I  notice  that  its  paychecks  are  made  out  to  it,  rather  than  a  nominee.  Fortunately  we  have  Julie  to  watch  over  it.  The  motor  hotel  in  Tel  Aviv  is  our  temporary,  not  long-range,  goal.  New  arrangements  will  probably  not  do  the  trick  but  we  are  making  them  anyhow:  the  ransom  has  been  counted  into  pretty  colored  sacks,  the  film  placed  in  round  tin  cans,  the  destroyed  beams  blocking  the  path  are  pushed  aside.  ...  Have  I  ever  been  more  alert,  more  confident?  Following  the  dropped  handkerchiefs  to  the  vandal  camp-  there,  a  blue  and  green  one,  hanging  on  a  shrub!  The  tall  van-  dal  chief  wipes  his  hands  on  his  sweatshirt.  Vandals,  he  says,  havebeen  gross-  ly  misperceived.  Their  old  practices,  which  earned  them  widespread  condem-  nation,  were  a  response  to  specific  historical  situations,  and  not  a  character  trait,  like  being  good  or  bad.  Our  negative  has  been  scratched  with  a  pointed  instrument,  all  one  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  feet  of  it.  But  the  vandals  say  they  wereon  the  other  side  of  town  that  emplaced  and  surrounded  by  avetch-  like  ground  cover  .  ..  A  beautiful  job!  One  does  not  know  what  to  think.  We  have  got  Frot  Barlow  for  our  film;  he  will  play  the  important  role  of  Henry.  Frot  wanted  many  Gs  in  the  beginning,  but  now  that  he  understands  the  nature  of  the  project  he  is  working  for  scale,  so  that  he  can  grow,  as  an  actor  and  as  a  person.  He  is  growing  visibly,  shot  by  shot.  Soon  he  will  be  the  biggest  actor  in  the  business.  The  other  actors  crowd  around  him,  peer-  ing  into  his  ankles  ..  .  Should  this  film  be  made?  That  is  one  of  the  difficult  questions  one  has  to  forget,  when  one  is  laughing  in  the  face  of  unclear  situa-  tions,  or  bad  weather.  What  a  beauti-  ful  girl  Julie  is!  Her  lustrous  sexuality  has  the  vandals  agog.  They  follow  her  around  trying  to  touch  the  tip  of  her  glove,  or  the  flounce  of  her  gown.  She  shows  her  breasts  to  any-  one  who  asks.  &quot;Amazing  grace!&quot;  the  vandals  say.  MURDERED  doll  floating  face  down  in  a  bathtub-that  was  the  opening  shot.  A  &quot;cold&quot;  opening,  but  with  faint  intimations  of  the  happiness  of  childhood  and  the  pleasure  we  take  in  water.  Then,  the  credits  superim-  posed  on  a  hanging  side  of  beef.  Sami-  sen  music,  and  a  long  speech  from  a  vandal  spokesman  praising  vandal  cul-  ture  and  minimizing  the  sack  of  Rome  in  455  A.D.  Next,  shots  of  a  talk  pro-  gram  in  which  all  of  the  participants  are  whispering,  including  the  host.  Softness  could  certainly  beconsidered  a  motif  here.  The  child  is  well  behaved  through  the  long  hours  of  shooting.  The  lieutenants  march  nicely,  swing-  ing  their  arms,.  The  audience  smiles.  A  Hf  bo-.  9  night,  planting  trees.  It  is  1.9}  Jue  difficult  to  believe  them.  But  gazing  at  the  neat  rows  of  saplings,  carefully     31  vandal  is  standing  near  the  window,  and  suddenly  large  cracks  appear  in  the  window.  Pieces  of  glass  fall  to  the  floor.  But  I  was  watching  him  the  whole  time,  and  he  did  nothing.  Where  is  Henry?  He  was  supposed  to  bring  additional  light,  so  that  the  ideological  content  of  the  punctuation  could  be  scrutinized.  The  vandals  hit  the  trail,  confused  as  to  whether  they  should  place  themselves  under  our  pro-  tection  or  fight.  The  empty  slivovitz  bottles  are  buried,  the  ashes  of  the  cook-  ing  fires  scattered.  At  a  signal  from  the  leader  the  sleek,  well-cared-for  mobile  homes  swing  onto  the  highway.  The  rehabilitation  of  the  filmgoing  public  through  &quot;good  design,&quot;  through  &quot;soft-  ness,&quot;  is  our  secret  aim.  The  payment  of  rent  for  seats  will  be  continued  for  a  little  while,  but  eventually  abolished.  Anyone  will  be  able  to  walk  into  a  film,  as  into  a  shower.  Bathing  with  the  actors  will  become  commonplace.  Ter-  ror  and  terrorare  our  two  great  prin-  ciples,  but  we  have  other  principles  to  fall  back  on,  if  these  fail.  &quot;I  can  relate  to  that,&quot;  Frot  says.  He  does.  We  watch  skeptically.  Who  had  murdered  the  doll?  We  pressed  our  inquiry,  receiving  every  courtesy  from  the  Tel  Aviv  police,  who  said  they  had  never  seen  acase  like  it,  either  in  their  memories,  or  in  dreams.  A  few  wet  towels  were  all  the  evidence  that  remained,  except  for,  in  the  doll's  hollow  head,  little  pieces  of  paper  on  which  were  written  JULIE  JULIE  JULIE  JULIE  in  an  uncertain  hand.  And  now  the  ground  has  opened  up  and  swallowed  up  our  cutting  room.  One  cannot  real-  ly  hold  the  vandals  respon-  sible.  And  yet  ...  But  here  is  Henry,  and  Henry  is  carrying  the  light  we  need  for  this  part  of  the  picture-a  great  bowl  of  light  lent  to  us  by  the  [REDACTED]  Navy.  Now  our  film  will  be  successful,  or  at  least  com-  pleted,  and  the  child  will  be  rescued,  and  Julie  will  marry  well,  and  the  light  from  the  light  will  fall  into  the  eyes  of  the  vandals,  fixing  them  in  place.  Truth!  That  is  an-  other  thing  they  said  our  film  didn't  contain.  I  had  simply  forgotten  about  it,  in  contem-  plating  the  series  of  triumphs  that  is  my  private  life.  -Donaro  BartHELME  "