"WHAT  happens  when  parents  buy  a  woman  for  their  sixteen-  year-old  son?  Even  in  this  &quot;swinging&quot;  age,  such  an  arrangement  would  seem  to  violate  most  commonly  held  moral  standards.  Not  so,  say  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  Shepard,  of  1417  Swallow  Lane.  Two  months  ago,  the  Shepards  ob-  tained  the  parole  of  a  twenty-four-year-  old  prostitute  from  the  County  De-  tention  Farm.  The  woman  came  to  work  for  the  Shepards  as  a  live-in  com-  panion  for  their  son,  Robert,  Jr.  &quot;Robbie  had  seemed  restless  and  un-  happy  all  last  summer,&quot;  says  Mrs.  Shepard,  a  short,  neat  woman.  &quot;He  was  too  young  to  geta  job,  and  we  were  afraid  he  would  take  up  drugs  or  smoking  and  drinking.  We  didn't  want  him  staying  out  late  with  the  car  and  taking  part  in  reckless  activities  We  thought  it  would  be  safer  to  give  him  what  all  boys  want.&quot;  The  woman,  whose  name  is  Doro-  thy,  is  a  shapely  brunette  who  could  easily  pass  for  eighteen.  &quot;Our  boy  has  matured  greatly  in  the  few  short  weeks  since  Dorothy  came  to  work  for  us,&quot;  says  Mr.  Shepard,  48,  who  is  an  electronics  engineer.  &quot;He  is  more  poised  and  more  relaxed.&quot;  &quot;We  see  more  of  him  this  way,  since  he  stays  home  evenings  and  weekends,&quot;  adds  Mrs.  Shepard.  Despite  the  Shepards'  success  with  Dorothy,  none  of  their  neighbors  have  bought  women  for  their  sons.  For  one  thing,  the  cost  is  prohibitive  for  many  families;  Dorothy's  wages  come  to  $75  per  week,  plus  room  and  board.,  How  does  Robbie  feel  about  his  new  friend?  &quot;At  first,  I  was  nervous  and  keyed-  up,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  didn't  know  what  to  expect.  Gradually,  I  got  used  to  it  and  settled  down.&quot;  In  addition  to  her  other  duties,  Dor-  othy  also  cooks  breakfast.  One  of  her  specialties  is  fancy  eggs.  Fanmcoy  Ecos  6  eggs  1  cup  chopped  onion  I/  cup  chopped  green  pepper  1  cup  tomato  sauce  Fry  the  eggs  over  easy.  Before  the  eggs  become  firm,  add  onion  and  green  pepper.  Pour  tomato  sauce  over  the  eggs  and  sea-  son  to  taste.  Serve  hot  with  corn  bread  and  coffee. "