      BEING  A  LILY  ‘  N  T  HEN  Jesus  said,  &quot;Consider  the  lilies  of  the  field,  how  they  grow;  they  toil  not,  neither  do  they  spin:  and  yet  I  say  unto  you  that  even  Solomon  in  all  his  glory  was  not  arrayed  like  one  of  these,&quot;  he  was  mak-  ing  an  economic  statement.  Solomon's  outgoings  must  have  been  appalling:  wives,  concubines,  children,  priests,  eunuchs,  functionaries,  visitors,  cere-  monials,  pensioners,  the  stables,  the  upkeep  of  his  botanical  and  zoological  gardens,  the  obligation  to  tip  everybody  in  sight-it  is  not  surprising  that  he  wrote  those  wistful  passages  about  con-  tentment  and  the  simple  life.  Subse-  quent  Solomons  have  invented  their  evasions.  They  live  very  quietly  and  don't  entertain,  they  buy  works  of  art  which  will  go  to  the  nation  in  lieu  of  death  duties,  they  can't  afford  a  family.  But  they  can't  escape  responsibilities.  The  state  becomes  dependent  on  them;;  they  are  taxed  for  its  support;  the  richer  they  are  the  more  they  are  taxed,  and  if  they  become  less  rich  it  is  no  real  pleasure  to  them  because  they  dread  poverty.  Either  way,  ruin  stares  them  in  the  face.  The  lily  lives  within  its  means.  It  knows  no  obligations,  it  has  no  little  lilies  dependent  on  it.  As  it  cannot  toil  or  spin,  it  has  no  ambition  to  better  its  lot  by  doing  so.  It  doesn't  even  do  the  best  it  can.  It  just  does.  For  a  few  years  of  my  life  I  ap-  proximated  to  the  lily  state.  I  had  a  salary  of  £150  a  year,  which  I  drew  from  the  bosom  of  the  Carnegie  United  Kingdom  Trust,  much  as  the  lilies  drew  their  stipend  of  chemicals  from  the  soil  of  Pales-  tine.  I  had  a  yearly  al-  lowance  of  £100  from  my  family,  tantamount  to  a  Palestinian  rain-  fall.  My  flat  in  Bays-  water,  [REDACTED],  was  rented  at  £90.  I  lived  with  economic  trimness  on  £160  a  year.  I  had  no  dependents,  no  claims  on  that  £160  except  when  my  friends  needed  to  borrow  from  me.  From  time  to  time  I  felt  hungry,  and  in  winter  I  often  felt  cold.  But  I  never  felt  poor.  I  was  fortunate  in  having  few  pre-  conceived  ideas.  Preconceived  ideas  em-  body  the  wisdom  of  the  ages;  they  are  bound  to  be  at  least  ten  years  out  of  date;  and  as  I  began  my  life  as  a  lily  in  the  autumn  of  1917  the  ideas  of  1907  would  not  have  very  precisely  applied.  But  a  few  had  adhered  to  me.     One  of  these  was  that  good  managers  always  keep  accounts,  superlatively  good  managers  by  double  entry.  After  ten  days  or  so  of  carefree  shopping  around,  discovering  a  fishmonger  who  sold  winkles,  the  hit-or-miss  reward-  ingness  of  broken  biscuits,  the  con-  venience  of  ready-made  Beef  Olives  (small  wads  of  hard-pressed  mince  flavored  by  machinery  and  cased  in  sanguine  glaze,  and  one  soon  grew  tired  of  them),  I  called  myself  to  heel  and  bought  an  account  book,  and  com-  ing  home  with  my  purchases  I  sat  down  to  enter  them;  but  on  the  one  page  only,  as  I  did  not  think  I  would  bother  about  double  entry  just  then:  Winkles  4d  2  bread  rolls  2d  14  lb  butter  2s  Watercress  2d  Violets  3d  Carrots  5d  Account  Book  9d  I  added  it  up.  It  came  to  four  shillings  and  a  penny.  This  was  more  than  I  reckoned  for.  I  was  alarmed.  Yet  I  did  not  seem  to  have  been  extravagant.  'The  violets  were  licensed  :  some  eminent  person-Goethe,  perhaps,  or  Ruskin  or  Seneca-had  said  that  to  spend  nothing  on  the  Beautiful  was  an  ill-balanced  economy;  and  I  had  spent  a  lmost  twice  as  much  on  the  carrots.  The  truth  blazed  out  on  the  page.  Account  Book  9d.  To  spend  all  that  good  money  on  an  ac-  count  book  was  waste  and  ostentation.  I  couldn't  call  the  money  back,  but  at  least  I  would  not  squander  any  more  time  on  keep-  ing  accounts.  The  discrepancy  be-  tween  the  bread  rolls  and  the  butter  did  not  alarm  me.  Butter  was  then  eight  shillings  a  pound.  As  I  could  do  nothing  about  this,  I  accepted  it,  reclining  on  Prag-  matism.  Eggs  were  a  shilling  each;  and  as  one  of  the  few  things  I  knew  how  to  cook  was  an  omelette  it  was  quite  a  tussle  to  recline.  But  when  I  came  home  one  wet  December  morning  and  cracked  the  egg  I  had  carried  so  care-  fully  and  so  hopefully  and  found  it  was  a  bad  one,  I  determined  on  action  and  put  the  egg  in  a  teacup.  Holding  the  teacup  in  one  hand,  supporting  an  umbrella  with  the  other,  I  walked  up  Queen's  Way,  Bayswater,  to  confront  the  grocer.  Placing  the  teacup  before  him,  I  said  with  dignity  that  I  was   not  pre  pare  d  to  pay  a  shilling  for  a  bad  egg,  and  that  he  must  r  eplace  it  with  a  good  o  ne.  He  made  some  general  re-  marks  o  n  the  sad  lot  of  th  ose  dealing  i  n  eggs  and  passed  to  the  larger  theme  of  the  hardships  of  war.  I  repeated  my  de-  mand  for  a  replacement.  Scrambling  unwillingly  out  of  the  trenches,  the  grocer  said  it  hard  l  y  seemed  fair.  There  were  other  customers  in  t  he  shop,  and  I  felt  t  hey  were  inc  lined  to  side  with  the  grocer,  self-interest  over-  riding  abstract  notions  of  justice.  Then  a  burly  voice  with  an  Irish  accent  re-  marked,  &quot;Th  e  lady's  right.  It's  the  Law  of  the  Land.&quot;  No  Lord  Chief  Justice  in  his  ermine  c  ould  have  looked  more  monum  enta  lly  irreproachable,  though  in  point  of  fact  he  ran  errands  for  the  bettin  g  shop  round  the  corner  .  We  unanimously  accepted  his  word  for  it.  The  gr  ocer  gave  me  a  nother  egg.  It  was  a  good  one.  I  feel  no  remorse  about  that  egg,  and  I  don't  t  hink  the  grocer  held  it  agains  t  me-much  .  Good  ma  nners  obliged  me  to  go  on  patronizing  him  ,  a  nd,  though  w  e  never  achieved  cor-  diality,  we  we  re  able  to  converse  with  decency  about  the  non-animate,  such  a  s  biscuits.  W  hat  my  conscience  still  brin  gs  to  mind  when  I  hav  e  e  xhau  s  ted  all  other  subjects  fo  r  repentance  is  the  Hoover  salesman.  Yet  it  wa  sn't  altogether  my  fault.  Twice  he  had  kn  ocked  a  t  my  door  and  assured  me  that  ladies  who  bought  vacuum  clean  -  ers  led  changed  lives  and  n  ever  re-  gretted  it,  and  that  a  d  emonstration  would  involve  me  in  nothing;  all  he  ask  ed  was  that  I  should  see  for  myself.  And  twice  over  I  had  told  him  in  all  seriousness  that  I  could  not  afford  t  o  buy  a  Hoover,  that  I  coul  dn't  under-  tak  e  to  pay  by  install  ments,  th  at  he  must  go  away  a  nd  for  ge  t  me.  Appar-  ently,  something  about  me  was  unfor-  gettable-some  housewifely  smut  on  my  nose,  perhaps,  or  perhaps  the  vista  of  g  rime  and  negl  ect  he  glimpsed  through  the  doorway.  For  he  came  again;  and  this  t  ime  my  mind  must  have  be  en  elsewhere,  for  b  efor  e  I  could  stop  him  he  had  come  into  my  sitting  room  and  writhed  a  great  serpent  after  him.  &quot;It's  no  use,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  can't  af  ford  it.  I  don't  want  it.  &quot;  But  he  re-  plied  that  if  he  could  have  the  l  oan  of  a  stepladder  he  would  begin  with  th  e  curtains.  I  fetched  the  stepladder.  He  and  the  serpent  ascended  it.  I  think  that  briefly  I  had  in  my  heart  a  mute  desperate  prayer  that  he  might  fall  off  and  end  it  that  way.  But  the  prayer  was  brief.  Why  should  I  wish  him  to  end  untime-  ly  something  which  he  had  set  his  heart  on?  Such  a  fine  opportunity,  too,  to  show  what  his  Hoover  could  do  if  really  put  to  it.  When  he  had  done  with  the  curtains,  I  would  unflinching-  ly  send  the  poor  man  away.  But  by  the  time  he  was  down  the  ladder  and  working  on  the  rugs  I  was  furtively  strewing  cigarette  butts  in  the  serpent's  way  for  the  satisfaction  of  watching  them  swallowed  up  and  machinery  triumphing  over  matter.  I  must  say,  the  result  of  all  this  was  marvellous.  I  would  not  have  known  my  sitting  room  for  my  own,  and  I  was  able  to  say  with  real  feeling  in  my  voice  how  sorry  I  was  I  could  not  afford  a  Hoo-  ver  when  I  gave  him  five  shillings  I  could  not  afford  either.  But  it  was  a  shabby  proceeding,  and  if  there  were  a  Society  for  the  Promotion  of  Kindness  to  Hoover  Salesmen  (S.P.K.H.S.)  I  would  subscribe  conscience  money  to  it.  N  other  respects,  my  virtues  walked  their  narrow  round,  and  I  don't  think  I  did  anything  reprehensible  un-  less  it  were  putting  on  my  hat  when-  ever  my  doorbell  rang  so  that  in  case  of  bores  I  could  mendaciously  ex-  claim,  &quot;Oh,  how  unfortunate!  I  am  just  going  out,&quot;  and  walk  as  far  as  the  [REDACTED]  with  them-a  mere  hundred  yards  and  well  worth  it.  There  was  no  incentive  to  do  any-  thing  reprehensible.  I  was  happy  and  contented  as  I  was.  IfI  wanted  diver-  sion,  I  had  [REDACTED]  to  divert  myself  in.  If  I  wanted  a  breath  of  the  [REDACTED],  I  could  snuff  it  in  Penny  Fields  or  watch  a  local  Archimandrite  buying  cod  fillet  (Bayswater  abounded  in  Archiman-  drites)  and  wonder  why  the  religious  life  leads  inevitably  to  cod.  If  I  wished  to  feel  ennobled,  I  had  the  Wren  Orangery  at  hand.  If  I  needed  amuse-  ment,  [REDACTED]  is  richin  public  statuary,  and  if  the  weather  wasn't  suitable  for  that,  I  could  sit  indoors  reading  &quot;Tom  Jones.&quot;  And  any  impulses  toward  lawbreaking  were  looked  after  by  thrift.  For  though  thrift  in  moderation  cannot  be  called  anti-social,  I  don't  know  anything  to  equal  it  for  giving  one  a  sense  of  roguery  and  cardsharp-  ing.  Every  little  advantage  I  filched  from  circumstances,  every  penny  I    stretched  into  three  halfpence,  every  profitable  abstention,  every  exercise  of  forethought,  every  stratagem  and  pur-  loined  opportunity  made  me  feel  as  gay  as  Macheath.  I  used  to  walk  into  the  British  Museum,  expand  in  that  warmth,  smell  that  ambrosial  floor  polish,  and  settle  down  to  my  Carnegie  United  Kingdom  Trust  affair  in  the  Manuscript  Room,  smirking  at  the  thought  that  for  hours  and  hours  I  would  be  kept  warm  by  public  ex-  penditure,  and  more  than  half  believ-  ing  that  this  was  due  to  my  own  unaided  cleverness  and  good  manage-  ment.  But  it  must  be  thrift  in  modera-  tion.  I  was  careful  to  eschew  carnal  mortifications;  I  never  debased  myself  by  giving  up  smoking.  On  fuller  consideration  of  the  lilies,  however,  I  suspected  I  wasn't  being  all  I  should  be:  I  was  deficient  in  the  article  of  being  arrayed.  I  don't  mean  my  outward  raiment.  Like  the  ladies  of  [REDACTED],  I  had  my  hat.  But  I  lacked,  so  to  speak,  sheen,  moral  splendor,  the  gloriousness  and  baroque  of  extrava-  gance.  I  was  happy  and  contented  and  doing,  I  considered,  nicely;  but  doing  nicely  was  not  enough.  I  should  occa-  sionally  blaze,  and  blaze  on  my  own  initiative,  not  always  leave  it  to  Sir  Christopher  Wren.  One  cannot  blaze  to  order.  I  re-  member  standing  outside  a  shopwin-  dow  which  displayed  a  great  number  of  objects,  some  shiny,  some  furry,  all  in  their  various  ways  coquettish,  or  rendered  so,  if  inherently  sober  like  alarm  clocks,  by  bows.  A  placard  in  the  center  of  the  window  read  &quot;ACcCEPT-  ABLE  GIFTS,&quot;  and  I  thought  morosely  that  if  taken  in  the  leanest  sense  of  the  words  this  was  an  adequate  state-  ment.  I  felt  very  differently  going  out  of  my  way  to  linger  outside  the  win-  dow  of  a  gallery  where  the  sole  object  was  a  little  Courbet  of  two  dark-green  pears.  I  blazed,  all  right.  But  the  little  Courbet  was  beyond  the  bounds  of  any  extravagance  I  could  reach  to.  A  few  weeks  later,  it  was  gone.  So  were  the  Acceptable  Gifts,  and  replaced  by  bed  linen,  for  it  was  the  season  of  White  Sales.  I  had  noticed  this  and  walked  on  when  I  realized  that  some-  thing  was  about  to  take  place  in  me;  })  not,  as  I  first  surmised,  a  sneeze:  an  extravagance.  I  was  going  to  buy  that  pair  of  sheets.  Apprehending  without  conscious  vision,  I  had  seen  that  depth  of  white,  that  smooth  swan  web  of  fine  linen-which  is  as  tough,  too,  as  the  noble  swan.  I  knew  I  would  have  them.  I  knew  I  would  have  to  fight  for  them.  For  [REDACTED]  was  yell-  ing  in  my  ears  about  the  electricity  bill,  and  half  of  my  mind  was  ranged  on  her  side,  reminding  me  that  thrift  was  not  only  for  fun-that  free-  dom  depended  on  it,  since  if  I  couldn't  live  within  my  £160  I  should  have  to  leave  my  stately  solitude  and  doss  down  in  some  dreary  receptacle  for  working  girls.  I  turned  round  and  walked  back  to  the  shop,  and  [REDACTED]  followed  me,  now  yammering  about  justification.  And  on  the  threshold  of  the  shop  the  answer  glided  into  my  mind,  smooth  as  linen.  The  sheets  would  do  to  shroud  me  in.  So  I  went  in  and  bought  them. 