  AT  THE  STROKE  OF  MIDNIGHT  the  charwoman.  At  ten  minutes  to  eleven  (Mrs.  Ridpath  was  al-  ways  punctual,  you  could  set  your  watch  by  her)  she  came  into  the  kitch-  en,  put  on  the  electric  kettle,  got  out  the  coffeepot,  the  milk,  the  sugar,  the  two  pink  cups  and  saucers,  the  spoons,  the  coffee  canister.  She  took  the  raisin  cake  out  of  the  cake  tin,  cut  two  good  slices,  laid  them  on  the  pink  plates  that  went  with  the  two  cups,  though  not  a  match.  The  kettle  boiled,  the  cof-  fee  was  made.  At  the  hour  precisely  the  two  women  sat  down  to  their  elevenses.  It  was  all  just  as  usual.  If  there  had  been  anything  not  just  as  usual  with  Mrs.  Ridpath,  Mrs.  Barker  would  cer-  tainly  have  noticed  it.  Such  a  thing  would  be  quite  out  of  the  common;  it  would  force  itself  on  your  notice.  Mrs.  Ridpath  was  never  much  of  a  talker,  though  an  easy  lady  to  talk  to.  She  asked  after  Mrs.  Barker's  Dianeand  David.  She  remarked  that  people  in  the  country  would  soon  be  hearing  the  first  cuckoo.  Mrs.  Barker  said  she  under-  stood  that  the  Council  were  poisoning  the  poor  pigeons  again,  and  together  they  agreed  that  [REDACTED]  was  no  longer  what  it  was.  Mrs.  Barker  could  re-  SHE  was  last  seen  by  Mrs.  Barker,     member  when  Pimlico  was  a  pleasure  to  live  in-and  look  at  it  now,  nothing  but  barracks  and  supermarkets  where  they  treated  you  with  no  more  consid-  eration  than  if  you  were  a  packet  of  lentils  yourself.  And  at  eleven-fifteen  she  said  she  must  be  getting  on  with  her  work.  Later,  while  she  was  polish-  ing  the  bath,  she  saw  Mrs.  Ridpath  come  out  of  the  bedroom  and  go  to  the  front  door.  She  was  wearing  her  grey  andhad  ascarf  over  her  head.  Mrs.  Barker  advised  her  to  put  on  a  mac,  for  it  looked  like  rain.  Mrs.  Ridpath  did  so,  picked  up  her  handbag,  and  went  out.  Mrs.  Barker  heard  the  lift  come  up  and  go  down,  and  that  was  the  last  she  knew.  It  was  Saturday,  the  day  when  she  was  paid  her  week's  money,  and  she  hung  about  a  bit.  But  Mrs.  Ridpath  didn't  come  back,  and  at  a  quarter  past  one  she  left.  Her  cred-  it  was  good,  thank  God!  She  could  manage  her  weekend  shopping  all  right,  and  Mrs.  Ridpath  would  pay  her  on  Monday.  On  Monday  she  let  herself  in.  The  flat  was  empty.  The  Aga  cooker  was  stone-cold,  the  kitchen  was  all  anyhow;  the  milk  bottles  hadn't  been  rinsed,  let  alone  put  out.  The  telephone  rang,  and  it  was  Mr.  Ridpath,  saying  that  Mrs.  Ridpath  was  away  for  the  weekend.  By  then,  Aston  Ridpath  was  so  de-  termined  that  this  must  be  so  that  when  Mrs.  Barker  answered  him  he  waited  for  a  moment,  allowing  time  for  her  to  say  that  Mrs.  Ridpath  had  just  come  in.  For  naturally,  when  he  got  home  from  his  office  on  Saturday  (the  alter-  nate  Saturday  when  he  worked  during  the  afternoon),  he  expected  to  find  Lucy  in  the  flat,  probably  in  the  kitch-  en.  There  was  no  Lucy.  There  was  no  smell  of  cooking.  In  the  refrigerator  there  was  a  ham  loaf,  some  potato  salad,  and  the  remains  of  the  apple  mousse  they  had  had  on  Friday.  It  was  unlike  Lucy  not  to  be  there.  He  turned  on  the  wireless  for  the  six-o'clock  news  and  sat  down  to  wait.  By  degrees  an  uneasiness  and  then  a  slight  sense  of  guilt  stole  into  his  mind.  Had  Lucy  told  him  she  would  not  be  back  till  after  six?  He  had  had  a  busy  day;  it  might  well  have  slipped  his  memory.  It  was  even  possible  that  she  had  told  him  and  that  he  had  not  attended.  It  was  casy  not  to  attend  to  Lucy.  She  had  a  soft  voice,  and  a  habit  of  speaking  as  if  she  did  not  expect  to  be  attended  to.  Probably  she  had  told  him  she  was  going  out  to  tea,  or  something  of  that  sort.  She  sometimes  went  to  pic-  ture  galleries.  But  surely,  if  she  had  told  him  she  would  not  be  back  in  time  to  get  dinner,  he  would  have  noticed  it?  By  eight  o'clock  it  became  obvious  that  she  must  have  told  him  she  would  not  be  back  in  time  for  dinner.  No  doubt  she  had  told  him  about  the  ham  loaf,  too.  She  was  thoughtful  about  such  matters-which  was  one  reason  why  her  conversation  was  so  seldom  arrest-  ing.  It  would  not  do  to  seem  inatten-  wive,  so  he  would  eat  and,  if  there  was  time  before  she  got  back,  he  would  also  wash  up.  He  ate.  He  washed  up.  He  hung  the  dishcloth  on  the  rail.  In  some  ways  he  was  a  born  bachelor.  The  telephone  rang.  As  he  expected,  it  was  Golding,  who  had  said  he  might  come  round  that  evening  with  the  stamp  album  he  had  inherited  from  an  uncle  who  had  gone  in  for  philately.  He  didn't  know  if  there  was  anything  in  it  worth  having;  Ridpath  would  know.  Golding  was  one  of  those  calm,  trac-  table  bores  who  appear  to  have  been  left  over  from  ampler  days.  Every  Sun-  day  he  walked  from  Earls  Court  to  St.  Paul's  to  attend  matins.  Now  he  ar-  rived  carrying  a  large  brown-paper  par-  cel  and  a  bunch  of  violets.  &quot;Lucy's  out,&quot;  said  Aston,  seeing  Golding  look  round  for  somewhere  to  dispose  of  the  flowers.  &quot;She's  gone  out  to  din-  ner.  Have  a  whiskey?&quot;  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  &quot;Well,  yes.  That  would  be  very  pleas-  ant.&quot;  The  album  turned  out  to  be  unexpectedly  interesting.  It  was  after  eleven  when  Golding  began  to  wrap  it  up.  His  eye  fell  on  the  vio-  lets.  &quot;I  don't  suppose  I  shall  see  Mrs.  Ridpath.  I  think  you  said  she  was  dining  out.&quot;  &quot;She's  dining  with  some  friends.&quot;  &quot;Rather  a  long  din-  ner,&quot;  said  Golding.  &quot;You  know  what  women  are  like  when  they  get  together,&quot;  said  Aston.  &quot;Talk,  talk,  talk.&quot;  Golding  said  sym-  pathetically,  &quot;Well,  I  like  talking,  too.&quot;  Golding  was  gone.  As  Aston  picked  up  his  violets,  which  would  have  to  be  put  into  some  sort  of  vase,  he  realized  with  painful  actuality  that  if  Lucy  wasn't  back  by  mid-  night  he  would  have  to  do  something  about  it-ring  up  hospitals,  ring  up  the  police.  It  would  be  necessary  to  describe  her.  When  one  has  been  hap-  pily  married  to  a  woman  for  nearly  twenty-five  years  it  is  too  much  to  be  expected  to  describe  her.  Tall.  Thin.  Knock-kneed.  Walks  with  a  stoop.  Brown  eyes,  brown  hair-probably  safer  to  say  grizzled.  Wearing-  How  the  hell  was  he  to  know  what  Lucy  would  be  wearing  if  she  had  gone  out  to  dinner?  If  he  were  to  say  what  oc-  curred  to  him,  it  would  be  tweeds.  Suppose  she  had  not  gone  out  to  dinner?  Suppose-for  fiction  is  after  all  based  on  real  life-suppose  she  had  gone  off,  leaving  that  traditional  note  on  her  pincushion?  If  she  had  apin-  cushion,.  He  walked  into  their  bed-  room.  There  was  a  pincushion,  a  very  old  and  wilted  one,  but  there  was  no  note  on  it.  He  could  see  no  note  any-  where.  There  were  some  letters  on  her  desk.  He  read  them.  They  were  from  shops,  or  from  friends,  recounting  what  the  friends  had  been  doing.  If  only  he  had  listened!  If  only  she  had  not  got  into  this  unfortunate  trick  of  mumbling!  For  she  would  certainly  have  told  him  whom  she  was  going  out  to.  &quot;Aston,  I'm  having  dinner  with  .  .  .&quot;  It  seemed  as  if  he  could  almost  recap-  Mix  \\_:L\xc2\xa2&quot;(;  mops  KITJLN  -  d  4.  ture  the  words.  &quot;Aston,  I'm  going  ...&quot;  Could  she  have  continued,  &quot;away  for  the  weekend&quot;?  For  that  would  explain  everything.  It  was  perfectly  possible.  There  were  all  those  friends  who  wrote  to  her  about  fying  in  Hovercrafts  to  the  Isle  of  Wight,  visiting  Leningrad,  coming  back  from  cruises  to  the  West  Indies.  Why  shouldn't  she  be  spending  the  weekend  with  one  or  other  of  these  Sibyls  or  Sophies?  It  was  April,a  sea-  son  when  it  is  natural  to  spend  week-  ends  in  the  country-if  you  like  that  sort  of  thing.  Only  a  few  weeks  ago  he  had  remarked  that  she  was  looking  tired  and  would  be  the  better  for  coun-  try  air.  An  invitation  had  come;  mind-  ful  of  his  encouragement  she  had  ac-  cepted  it.  He  could  now  almost  swear  he  had  heard  the  words  &quot;Aston,  I  am  going  away  for  the  weekend.&quot;  No  doubt  she  had  also  told  him  where.  He  had  failed  to  remember  it,  but  one  can-  not  remember  everything.  He  ate  some  biscuits,  went  to  bed  with  a  clear  conscience,  and  was  asleep  in  five  minutes.  In  the  morning  his  first  conscious  thought  was  that  Lucy  was  away  for  the  weekend.  The  conviction  was  so  strong  that  presently  he  was  able  to  imagine  her  being  brought  breakfast  in  bed-brown-bread  toast,  honey,  piping-    hot  coffee;  he  could  positively  see  the  tray.  There  she  would  lie,  listening  to  the  birds.  If  it  had  not  been  for  that  unlucky  moment  of  inattention,  he  would  have  been  able  to  construct  some  approximation  of  the  surrounding  landscape.  [REDACTED]  is  surrounded  by  the  Home  Counties.  Somewhere  in  the  Home  Counties-for  if  she  had  told  him  she  was  going  to  Yorkshire  or  Cape  Wrath  he  would  surely  have  registered  the  fact-Lucy  was  having  breakfast  in  bed.  He  was  glad  of  it.  It  would  do  her  good.  Thinking  affec-  tionately  of  Lucy,  he  lay  in  bed  for  some  while  longer,  then  got  up  and  made  his  breakfast.  The  bacon  took  a  long  time  to  cook.  He  had  omitted  to  riddle  the  stove  overnight;  the  fire  had  choked  and  was  almost  out.  He  looked  about  conscientiously  to  see  if  Lucy  had  left  any  food  he  ought  to  heat  up.  He  did  not  want  to  be  found  with  any  kind  provisions  uneaten.  When  Lucywent  to  visit  her  cousin  Aurelia  in  [REDACTED],  she  always  left,  he  remem-  bered,  quantities  of  soup.  This  time  she  had  left  nothing.  No  doubt  she  had  said,  at  that  moment  when  he  wasn't  attending,  that  he  had  better  cat  out.  Accordingly,  Aston  ate  out.  His  mind  was  at  rest.  Wherever  Lucy  might  be,  she  could  not  be  with  Aurelia  " b" and  would  return  from  wherever  it  might  have  been  his  own  normal  Lucy.  During  those  [REDACTED]  absences  all  he  could  be  sure  of  was  that  Aurelia  was  leading  Lucy,  whether  up  a  windmill  or  to  [REDACTED],  by  the  nose,  and  that  what  he  received  back  would  be  Aurelia's  Lucy:  talking  in  Aurelia's  voice,  as-  serting  Aurelia's  opinions,  aping  Au-  relia's  flightiness,  flushed,  overexcited,  and  giggling  like  a  schoolgirl.  Thor-  oughly  unsettled,  in  short,  and  needing  several  days  to  become  herself  again.  Family  affection  is  all  very  well,  but  it  was  absurd  that  visits  to  a  coun-  try  cousin-a  withered  virgin  and  im-  pecunious  at  that-should  be  so  intoxi-  cating  that  Lucy  returned  from  them  as  from  an  assignation,  and  acknowl-  edged  them  as  such  by  leaving  him  with  such  quantities  of  soup.  Even  when  she  went  to  Aurelia's  funeral  she  provided  it;  and  came  home  saying  in  Aurelia's  voice  that  cremations  would  be  all  right  if  they  weren't  so  respect-  ful.  But  now  there  was  no  soup  and  his  mind  continued  to  be  at  rest  till  he  was  in  the  bathroom  brushing  his  teeth  be-  fore  going  to  bed  and  noticed  Lucy's  sponge.  It  was  a  new  sponge;  he  had  given  it  to  her  for  Christmas.  There  was  no  excuse  for  leaving  it  behind.  Appar-  ently  she  had  not  taken  anything-  not  her  hand  lotion,  not  her  dusting  powder.  Examining  Lucy's  dressing  table,  he  saw  that  she  had  taken  noth-  ing  from  that,  either.  In  a  moment  of  blind  panic  he  fell  on  his  knees  and  looked  for  her  body  under  the  bed.  This  was  probably  due  to  Words-  worth's  tiresome  trick  of  staying  about  in  one's  memory.  If  Lucy  had  been     to  \xc2\xbb)  christened  [REDACTED],  he  would  not  have  been  under  the  same  compulsion  to  sup-  pose  she  was  dead.  Lucy  (his  Lucy)  kept  Wordsworth  beside  her  bed.  He  looked  up  the  poem  and  found  that  on  this  occasion  Wordsworth  was  mis-  taken,  though  in  the  following  lyrics  he  had  lost  her  and  it  made  a  great  difference  to  him.  Then  he  remem-  bered  that  Samuel  Butler  had  wickedly  put  it  about  that  Wordsworth,  aided  by  Southey  and  Coleridge,  had  murdered  Lucy.  This  meant  returning  to  the  sit-  ting  room  for  Butler.  Half  an  hour  with  Butler  recalled  him  to  reason.  Lucy  must  have  forgotten  to  pack  her  sponge  and  had  bought  a  new  hairbrush.  But  the  sponge  and  the  hairbrush  had  shaken  him.  He  did  not  sleep  so  well  that  night,  and  when  he  got  up  to  a  cold,  companionless  Monday  morn-  ing  the  reality  of  Lucy's  absence  was  stronger  than  the  ideality  of  her  break-  fast  tray  floating  somewhere  in  the  Home  Counties,  and  he  hoped  very  much  she  would  soon  be  back-by  which  time  Mrs.  Barker  would  have  put  things  straight,  so  that  there  would  be  nothing  to  impede  him  from  saying,  &quot;And  now  tell  me  all  about  it.&quot;  For  that  was  the  form  of  words  he  had  de-  cided  on.  When  he  came  back  that  evening  everything  had  been  put  straight.  But  still  there  was  no  Lucy.  Anxiety  hardens  the  heart.  Address-  ing  the  absent  Lucy,  Aston  said,  &quot;I  shall  ring  up  Vere.&quot;  Vere  was  his  sis-  ter-a  successful  widow.  He  did  not  like  her  very  much  and  Lucy  did  not  like  her  at  all.  She  lived  in  Hampstead.  He  rang  up  Vere,  who  cut  short  his  ex-  planations  by  saying  she  would  come  at  once  and  grapple.  She  came  with  a  suitcase  and  again  cut  short  his  explanations.  &quot;I  suppose  you  have  told  the  police.&quot;  ''Told  the  police,  Vere?  Why  the  hell  should  I  tell  the  police?  It's  no  business  of  theirs.  Nothing  would  in-  duce  me  to  tell  the  police.&quot;  &quot;If  Lucy  doesn't  reappear  and  you  haven't  told  the  police,  you'll  probably  be  suspected  of  murder.&quot;  S  Aurelia  walkedtoward  the  Tate  Gallery  she  noticed  that  she  was  wearing  a  wedding  ring.  Her  first  im-  pulse-for  she  was  a  flighty  creature-  was  to  drop  it  into  a  pillar-box.  'Then  some  streak  of  latent  prudence  per-  suaded  her  that  it  would  be  more  prac-  tical  to  sell  it.  She  pulled  it  off-it  was  too  large  for  her  and  revolved  easily  on  her  finger-and  dropped  it  into  her  bag.  She  remembered  that  there  had  been  a  second-hand  jewelry  shop  a  little  farther  along.  She  had  sometimes  looked  in  through  its  wire-meshed  win-  dows  at  coral  earrings  and  mosaic  brooches  of  the  Colosseum,  St.  Peter's,  and  other  large  celebrities.  Once,  long  ago,  she  had  bought  herself  an  unset  moss  agate  there.  It  was  only  a  simu-  lacrum  of  moss,  but  the  best  that  then  presented  itself.  The  shop  was  still  in  its  old  place.  She  went  in  and  pre-  sented  the  ring.  The  jeweller  looked  with  compassion  at  the  sad  middle-aged  woman  in  a  mackintosh  with  a  wisp  of  greying  hair  plastered  to  her  fore-  head  by  the  rain.  To  judge  by  the  ring,  she  must  have  known  better  days.  It  was  both  broad  and  heavy,  and  he  could     " b"  give  her  a  good  sum  for  it.  &quot;I'm  afraid  I  must  ask  for  the  name,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  a  formality.&quot;  &quot;Aurelia  Lefanu,  Shilling  Street,  Lavenham.&quot;  She  smiled  as  she  gave  the  address.  Well,  at  any  rate,  the  poor  thing  lovedher  home.  The  same  unaccountable  streakof  prudence  now  told  Aurelia  she  must  do  some  shopping.  Stockings,  for  in-  stance.  It  was  raining  harder,  and  her  feet  felt  wet  already.  One  need  sug-  gested  another,  and  impressed  by  her  own  efficiency  she  bought  some  under-  clothes.  Finally,  as  it  was  now  raining  extremely  hard  and  she  had  collected  several  paper  parcels,  she  bought  a  tar-  tan  grip.  The  Tate  would  be  full  of  people  who  had  gone  into  shelter  from  the  rain;  but  they  wouldn't  be  looking  at  the  Turners.  Joseph  Mallord  Wil-  liam  Turner,  staring  from  under  his  sooty  chimney-pot  hat,  sucking  in  color  as  if  from  a  fruit,  making  and  re-  making  his  world  like  some  unendingly  ambitious  Jehovah  and,  like  a  Jehovah,  peopling  it  with  rather  unsuccessful  specimens  of  the  human  race,  was  hers  and  hers  alone  for  the  next  hour.  When  she  left  the  gallery,  Joseph  Mallord  William  Turner  had  got  there  before  her.  The  rain  had  stopped.  A  glittering  light  thrust  from  beneath  the  arch  of  cloud  and  painted  the  river  with  slash-  ing  strokes  of  primrose  and  violet.  The  tide  was  at  the  full,  and  a  procession  of  Thames  shipping  rode  on  it  in  black-  ness  and  majesty.  (C011  !  \xc2\xbb&gt;  In  her  excitement  she  seized  the  el-  bow  of  the  man  beside  her;  for  he  too  OBRew  was  looking,  he  too,  no  doubt,  was  transfixed.  Touched  by  her  extreme  emotion  and  her  extreme  wetness,  he  said,  &quot;I'm  hoping  to  catch  a  taxi.  Can  I  give  you  a  lift?  It's  going  to  pelt  again  in  a  moment,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;I've  forgotten  to  take  out  my  bag.  Could  you  wait  an  instant?&quot;  Seeing  its  cheapness-indeed,  he  could  read  the  price,  for  the  tag  was  still  hanging  from  it-he  supposed  she  was  some  perpetual  student  who  would  be  much  the  better  for  a  good  square  tea.  She  had  a  pretty  voice.  The  light  grew  dazzling.  In  another  minute  a  heavier  rain  would  descend;  if  he  could  not  secure  the  taxi  that  had  just  drawn  up  to  discharge  its  pas-  senger,  there  would  be  no  hope  of  an-  other.  He  hauled  her  down  the  steps,  signalling  withher  tartan  bag,  and  pushed  her  in.  &quot;Where  can  I  take  you?&quot;  &quot;Where?  ...I  really  don't  know.  Where  would  be  suitable?&quot;  And  gaz-  ingout  of  the  window  at  the  last  de-  fiance  of  the  light,  she  murmured,  &quot;\xc2\xab  'Whither  will  I  not  go  with  gentle  Ithamore?&quot;  &quot;  He  gave  his  own  address  to  the  driver.  The  taxi  drove  off.  Turning  to  him,  she  said,  &quot;Mar-  lowe,  not  me.  I'm  afraid  it  may  have  sounded  rather  forward.&quot;  &quot;I've  never  been  called  Ithamore  in  all  my  life.  It's  a  pretty  name.  What's  yours?&quot;  &quot;Mine's  a  pretty  name,  too.  Aurelia.&quot;  O  it  was  in  [REDACTED]  that  she  break-  fasted  in  bed  that  Sunday  morn-  ing,  wearing  white  silk  pajamas  with  45  black  froggings-for  however  cleverly  one  goes  shopping  onecannot  remem-  ber  everything,  and  she  had  forgotten  to  buy  a  nightdress.  In  all  his  life  he  had  never  been  called  Ithamore.  In  all  his  life  he  had  never  met  anything  like  Aurelia.  She  was  middle-aged,  plain,  badly  kept,  untravelled-and  she  had  the  aplomb  ofa  poule  de  luxe.  Till  quite  recently  she  must  have  worn  a  wedding  ring,  for  the  dent  was  on  her  finger;  but  she  bore  no  other  mark  of  matrimony.  She  knew  how  to  look  at  pictures,  and  from  her  ease  in  nakedness  he  might  have  supposed  her  a  model-  buther  movements  never  set  into  a  pose.  He  could  only  account  for  her  by  supposing  she  had  escaped  from  a  luna-  tic  asylum.  She  must  be  saved  from  any  more  of  that.  He  must  get  her  out  of  England  as  soon  as  possible.  This  would  involve  getting  him  out  of  England,  too,  which  would  be  inconvenient  for  Jerome  and  Marmor,  Art  Publishers,  but  the  firm  could  survive  his  absence  for  a  few  weeks.  It  would  not  be  longer  than  that.  Once  settled  at  Saint-R\xc3\xa9my  de  Provence,  with  Laure  and  Dominique  to  keep  an  eye  on  her,  and  with  a  polite  subsidy,  she  would  do  very  well  for  her-  self-set  up  an  easel,  maybe;  study  as-  tronomy.  She  would  feel  no  need  for  him.  It  was  he  who  would  feel  need,  be  consumed  with  an  expert's  curiosity.  She  had  spoken  of  how  C\xc3\xa9zanne  painted  trees  in  slats,  so  he  drove  her  through  the  beechwoods  round  Stoken-  church  and  along  a  canal  to  a  hotel  that  concealed  its  very  good  cooking  behind  a  rustic  Edwardian  face.  Here  she  said  she  was  tired  of  eating  cooked  food,  she  would  prefer  fruit.  She  was  as  frank  as  a  nymph  about  it,  ora  kinkajou.  This  frankness  was  part  of  her  savor.  It  touched  him  because  it  was  so  totally  devoid  of  calculation  or  self-conscious-  ness.  It  would  have  been  remarkable  even  in  a  very  young  girl;  in  a  middle-  aged  woman  showing  such  marks  of  wear  and  tear  it  was  resplendent.  It  was  touching,  too,  though  rather  difficult  to  take,  that  she  should  be  so  unapprecia-  tive  of  his  tact.  He  had  led  her  to  a  pros-  pect  of  Provence;  he  had  intimated  that  he  sometimes  went  there  himself;  that  he  might  have  to  go  there  quite  soon;  that  he  hoped  it  might  be  almost  immediately,  in  order  to  catch  the  nightingales  and  the  wisteria.  .  ..  &quot;Will  you  take  me  too?&quot;  she  in-  quired.  To  keep  his  feet  on  the  ground,  he  asked  if  she  had  a  passport.  On  Monday  morning  he  rang  up  Jerome  and  Marmor  to  say  he  had  a  cold  and  would  not  be  coming  in  for  a  few  days;  and  would  Miss  Simpson  " b"46  bring  him  a  passport-application  form,  please.  The  form  was  brought.  He  left  Aurelia  to  fill  it  in  while  he  went  to  his  bank.  As  this  was  a  first  application,  someone  would  have  to  vouch  for  her,  and  he  would  ask  Dawkins  to  do  it.  Dawkins  was  closeted  with  a  customer.  He  had  to  wait.  When  he  got  at  him,  Dawkins  was  so  concerned  to  show  that  the  slight  illegality  of  vouching  for  someone  he  had  never  set  eyes  on  meant  nothing  to  him  that  he  launched  into  conversation  and  told  funny  stories  about  Treasury  officials  for  the  next  fifteen  minutes.  &quot;Aurelia!  I'm  sorry  to  have  left  you  for  so  long.  .  ..  Aurelia?&quot;  Standing  in  the  emptied  room  hecontinued  to  say,  &quot;Aurelia.&quot;  The  application  form  lay  on  the  table.  With  afeeling  of  indecency,  he  read  it.  &quot;AU-  RELIA  LEFAXNU.  Born:  Burford,  Ox-  on.  11th  May  1923.  Height:  5  ft.  10.  Eyes:  Brown.  Hair:  Grey.&quot;  The  neat  printing  persisted  without  a  waver.  But  at  the  Signature  of  Applicant  something  must  have  happened.  She  had  begun  to  write-it  seemed  to  be  a  name  be-  ginning  with  &quot;L&quot;-and  had  violently,  scrawlingly  erased  it.  She  had  packed  her  miserable  few  belongings  and  was  gone.  For  several  weeks  he  haunted  the  Tate  Gallery  and  waited  to  read  an  unimportant  para-  graph  saying  that  the  body  of  a  wom-  an,  aged  about  forty-five,  had  been  re-  covered  from  the  Thames.  \xe2\x80\x9cIF  you  haven't  told  the  policc-&quot;  The  thought  of  being  suspected  of  murdering  Lucy  left  Aston  speechless.  The  aspersion  was  outrageous;  the  notion  was  ridiculous.  Twenty  years  and  more  had  passed  since  they  were  on  murdering  terms.  But  the  police  were  capable  of  believing  anything,  and  Vere's  anxiety  to  establish  his  inno-  cence  was  already  a  rope  round  his  neck.  Vere  was  at  the  telephone,  saying  that  Mr.  Ridpath  wished  to  see  an  officer  immediately.  There  appeared  to  be  some  demurring  at  the  other  end,  but  she  overcame  it.  While  they  waited,  she  filled  in  the  time  by  cross-  examining  him.  When  did  Lucy  tell  him  she  was  going  away  for  the  weekend?  How  did  she  look  when  telling  him?  If  hewasn't  quite  sure  that  she  had  done  so,  what  made  him  think  she  had?  Had  she  been  going  away  for  other  weekends?  Had  he  noticed  any  change  in  her?  Was  she  restless  at  night?  Flushed?  Hysterical?  Had  her  speech  thickened?  If  not,  why  did  he  say  she  mumbled?  Had  he     looked  in  all  her  drawers?  Her  ward-  robe?  The  wastepaper  baskets?  Why  not?  Had  she  drawn  out  money  from  her  post-office  savings?  Had  she  been  growing  morbid?  Had  she  been  buy-  ing  cosmetics,  new  clothes,  neglecting  the  house,  reading  poetry,  losing  her  temper?  Why  hadn't  he  noticed  any  of  this'  Were  they  growing  apart?  Did  she  talk  in  her  sleep?  Why  did  she  never  come  to  Hampstead?  And  why  had  he  waited  till  Monday  eve-  ning  before  saying  a  word  of  all  this?  When  the  police  officer  came,  she  transferred  the  cross-examination  to  him.  He  was  a  large,  calm  man  in  need  of  sleep,  and  resolutely  ad-  dressed  himself  to  Aston.  As-  ton  began  to  feel  better.  &quot;And  you  were  the  last  per-  son  to  see  Mrs.  Ridpath?&quot;  Interrupting  Vere's  florid  confirma-  tion,  Aston  had  the  pleasure  of  saying  &quot;No,&quot;  and  the  further  pleasure  of  sav-  ing  her  face.  &quot;My  sister  has  forgotten  about  our  charwoman.  Mrs.  Barker  must  have  seen  her  after  I  did.  She  came  up  in  the  lift  just  as  I  was  leaving  for  work.&quot;  The  police  officer  made  a  note  of  Mrs.  Barker  and  went  away,  saying  that  every  endeavor  would  be  made.  &quot;But  if  the  lady  should  be  suffering  from  a  loss  of  memory,  it  may  not  be  so  easy  to  find  her.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  said  Vere.  &quot;I  should  have  thought-&quot;  &quot;When  persons  lose  their  memory,  in  a  manner  of  speaking  they  lose  them-  selves.  They  aren't  themselves.  It  would  surprise  you  how  unrecognizable  they  become.&quot;  When  he  had  gone,  Vere  exclaimed,  &quot;Stuff  and  nonsense!  I'm  sure  I  could  recognize  Lucy  a  mile  off.  And  she  hasn't  much  to  be  recognized  by,  ex-  cept  her  stoop.&quot;  Bereft  of  male  companionship,  Aston  sat  down  with  his  head  in  his  hands.  Vere  began  to  unpack.  She  was  in  the  kitchen,  routing  through  the  store-cupboard,  when  Mrs.  Barker  arrived  on  Tuesday  morning.  She  said,  &quot;Well,  I  suppose  you  know  about  Mrs.  Ridpath?&quot;  Mrs.  Barker  put  down  her  bag,  took  off  her  hat  and  coat,  opened  the  bag,  drew  out  an  apron  and  tied  it  on.  Then,  folding  her  hands  on  her  stom-  ach,  she  replied,  &quot;No,  Madam.  Not  that  I  know  of.&quot;  Her  heart  sank;  but  a  strong  dislike  is  a  strong  support.  &quot;Well,  she's  gone.  And  Mr.  Rid-  path  has  put  it  in  the  hands  of  the  police.&quot;  &quot;Indeed,  Madam.&quot;  SEPTEMBER  1  2,  1970  &quot;Not  that  that  will  be  much  use.  You  know  what  the  police  are  like.&quot;  &quot;No,  Madam.  I  have  had  no  deal-  ings  with  them.&quot;  &quot;They  bungle  everything.  Now,  why  three  packets  of  prunes?  It  does  seem  extraordinary.  She  was  the  last  person  in  the  world  one  would  expect  to  do  anything  unexpected.  Did  she  ever  talk  to  you  about  going  away?  By  herself,  I  mean?&quot;  &quot;No,  Madam.  Never.&quot;  Mrs.  Barker  had  no  doubt  as  to  where  Lucy  had  gone.  She  had  gone  to  the  South  of  [REDACTED]-to  a  pale  land-  scape  full  of  cemetery  trees,  as  in  the  picture  postcard,  not  sent  by  anyone,  which  she  kept  stuck  in  her  dressing  glass  and  said  was  the  South  of  [REDACTED].  Remarking  that  she  must  get  on  with  her  work,  Mrs.  Barker  went  smoothly  to  the  bedroom,  removed  the  postcard,  and  tucked  it  into  her  bosom.  Loth  as  she  was  to  admit  that  her  sister-in-law  could  have  a  lover,  Vere  was  sure  that  she  had  eloped.  (Men  are  so  helpless,  their  feelings  so  easily  played  on.)  She  was  sure  that  Lucy's  detestable  charwoman  knew  her  whereabouts  and  had  been  heavily  bribed.  A  joint  elevenses  was  when  she'd  catch  the  woman  and  trip  her  into  the  truth.  This  was  forestalled  by  Mrs.  Bar-  ker  bringing  her  a  tray  for  one  at  ten-  fifty,  remarking  that  Madam  might  be  glad  of  it,  seeing  how  busy  she  was  with  her  writing;  and  quitting  the  room  with  an  aggressively  hushed  tread.  Vere  believed  in  leaving  no  stone  un-  turned.  Though  she  was  sure  that  Lucy  had  eloped,  this  didn't  seem  to  have  occurred  to  Aston  yet.  A  series  of  confidential  letters  to  Lucy's  friends  might  produce  evidence  that  would  calm  his  mind.  Not  one  of  the  tiresome  women  had  signed  with  more  than  a  given  name,  so  the  envelopes  would  have  to  be  directed  to  &quot;Sibyl,&quot;  &quot;Sophie,&quot;  &quot;Peg,&quot;  and  &quot;Lalla;&quot;  but  a  &quot;Dear  Madam&quot;  would  redress  that.  The  rest  would  be  easy:  a  preliminary  an-  nouncement  that  she  was  Aston's  sister  and  was  writing  to  say  that  Lucy  had  left  home  for  no  apparent  reason  since  she  and  Aston  had  always  seemed  such  a  happy  couple;  and  that  if  Lalla,  Peg,  Sophie,  or  Sibyl  could  throw  any  light  on  this,  of  course  in  strictest  confidence,  it  would  be  an  inexpressible  relief.  More  she  would  not  say;  she  did  not  want  to  prejudice  anyone  against  Lucy.  All  this  took  time.  The  friends  might  know  each  other  and  get  together;  it  would  not  do  if  her  letters  to  them  were  identical.  It  would  suggest  a  cir-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  cular.  Her  four  letters  done-for  she  did  not  propose  to  write  to  people  like  the  linendraper  in  [REDACTED]  Ireland  who  regretted  hecould  no  longer  sup-  ply  huckaback  roller  towels-she  would  get  to  work  on  Mrs.  Barker;  differ-  ently,  this  time,  and  appealing  to  her  feelings.  It  was  in  vain.  However,  she  man-  aged  to  get  the  woman's  address  from  her,  so  she  rang  up  the  police  station  and  stated  her  convic-  tion  that  Mrs.  Barker  knew  what  she  wouldn't  say  and  should  be  ques-  tioned  and,  if  need  be,  watched.  As  Vere  was  one  of  those  people  who  are  obeyed-on  the  fal-  lacious  hypothesis  that  it  tends  to  keep  them  qui-  et-an  inspector  called  that  afternoon  on  Mrs.  Barker.  He  could  not  have  been  pleasanter,  but  the  harm  had  been  done;  everybody  in  the  street  would  know  she  had  been  visited  by  the  po-  lice.  Both  the  children  knew  it  when  they  got  in-David  from  school,  Diane  from  her  job  at  the  fruiterer's.  &quot;Mum!  What  ever's  happened?&quot;  &quot;Mum!  Is  anything  wrong?&quot;  The  sight  of  them  turned  the  sword  in  her  heart.  But  she  did  not  waver.  Go  back  to  those  Ridpaths  she  would  not;  nor  demean  herself  by  asking  for  the  money  she  was  owed,  though  it  might  mean  thatthe  payments  on  David's  bi-  cycle  and  the  triple  mir-  ror  in  Diane's  bedroom  could  not  be  kept  up.  Pinch,  pawn,  go  on  the  streets  or  the  Public  As-  sistance-but  grovel  for  her  lawful  money  to  that  two-faced  crocodile  who  set  the  police  on  her  she  would  not.  She  drew  on  her  savings;  and  comforted  herself  with  the  thought  of  the  two-  faced  crocodile  down  on  her  knees  and  doing  her  own  scrubbing.  The  picture  was  visionary.  Vere  was  on  a  commit-  tee-among  other  com-  mittees-of  a  Training  Home  for  Endangered  Girls,  and  whistled  up  an  endangered  mental  de-  ficient  in  no  time.  &amp;  [REDACTED],  now,&quot;  Aurelia  adjured  herself,  gathering  her  belong-  ings  together.  &quot;Now,  now.  Quickly  does  it.  Don't  lose  your  head.&quot;  Going  down  in  the  lift  she  was  accompanied  47  by  the  man  in  Dante-the  decapitated  man  who  held  his  head  in  front  of  him  like  a  lantern  and  said  through  its  lips,  &quot;Woe's  me.&quot;  But  fortunately  he  got  stuck  in  the  swing  door.  She  was  alone  in  the  street  and  knew  that  she  must  finda  bus.  A  taxi  would  not  do,  it  must  beabus;  fora  bus  asks  you  nothing,  it  substitutes  its  speed  and  direction  for   " b"   48  yours,  it  takes  you  away  from  your  private  life,  You  sit  in  it,  released,  un-  known,  an  anonymous  destiny,  and  look  out  ofthe  window  or  read  the  adver-  tisements.  A  bus  that  had  gone  by  at  speed  slowed  as  a  van  came  out  ofa  side  street.  She  ran,  caught  up  with  it  just  as  it  moved  again,  clambered  in,  and  sat  down  next  to  astout  man  who  saidto  her,  &quot;You  had  to  run  for  it,  my  girl.&quot;  She  smiled,  too  breathless  to  speak.  Her  smile  betrayed  her.  He  saw  she  was  not  so  young  as  he  took  her  for.  She  spent  the  day  travelling  about  [REDACTED]  in  buses,  with  a  bun  now  and  then  to  keep  her  strength  up.  In  the  evening  she  attended  a  free  lecture  on  town  and  country  planning,  given  un-  der  the  auspices  of  the  [REDACTED]  County  Council.  This  was  in  Clerkenwell.  During  the  lecture  she  noticed  that  her  hands  had  left  off  shaking  and  that  for  a  second  time  she  had  yawned  quite  nat-  urally.  Whatever  it  had  been  she  had  so  desperately  escaped  from,  she  had  es-  caped  it.  Like  the  lecture,  she  was  free.  It  had  been  rather  an  expensive  day.  She  atoned  for  this  by  walking  to  King's  Cross  and  spending  the  night  in  the  ladies'  waiting  room.  It  was  warm,  lofty,  impartial-preferable,  really,  to  any  bedroom.  The  dutiful  trains  ar-  rived  and  departed-demonstrations  of  a  world  in  which  all  was  controlled  and    orderly  and  would  get  on  very  nicely  without  her.  Tomorrow  she  would  go  to  some  quiet  place-Highgate  Ceme-  tery  would  do  admirably-and  decide  where  to  go  next.  It  was  in  Highgate  Cemetery,  study-  ing  a  headstone  which  said  &quot;I  will  dwell  in  the  house  of  the  Lord  for  ever,&quot;  that  Aurelia  remembered  hos-  tels.  The  lecturer  in  Clerkenwell  had  enlarged  on  youth  hostels.  But  there  were  middle-aged  hostels,  too-quiet  establishments,  scenes  of  unlicensed  so-  briety  ;  and  as  youth  hostels  are  scat-  tered  in  wild  landscapes  for  the  active  who  enjoyed  rock-climbing  and  ram-  bling  (he  had  dwelt  on  rambling  and  the  provision  of  ramblers'  routes),  mid-  dle-aged  hostels  are  clustered  round  de-  votional  landmarks  for  the  sedentary  who  enjoyed  going  to  com-  pline.  She  had  enough  mon-  ey  to  dwell  in  a  middle-  aged  hostel  for  a  week.  A  week  was  quite  far  enough  to  plan  for.  Probably  the  best  person  to  consult  would  be  a  clergyman.  There  was  bound  to  bea  funeral  before  long.  She  would  hang  on  its  outskirts  and  buttonhole  the  man  afterward.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  she  would  begin.  &quot;I  am  a  stranger.  ...&quot;  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  she  began,  laying  hold  of  him  by  the  surplice.  He  had  a  sad,  un-  appreciated  face.  &quot;I  am  a  stranger.&quot;  Thinking  about  her  aft-  erward-and  she  was  to  haunt  his  mind  forthe  rest  of  his  life-Lancelot  Fogg  acknowledged  a  saving  mercy.  His  Maker,  whom  he  had  come  to  despair  of,  an  ear  that  never  heard,  a  name  that  he  was  inces-  santly  obliged  to  take  in  vain,  had  done  a  marvel  and  shown  him  a  spiritual  woman.  His  life  was  full  of  women:  good  women,  pious  women,  energetic,  forceful  women,  blighted  women,  women  abounding  in  good  works,  women  learned  in  liturgies,  wom-  en  with  tragedies,  scruples,  fallen  arches-not  to  men-  tion  women  he  was  com-  pelled  to  classify  as  bad  women:  bullies,  slanderers,  backbiters,  schemers,  or-  ganizers,  women  abound-  ing  in  wrath;  there  were     " b"50  even  a  few  kind  women.  But  never  a  spiritual  woman  till  now.  So  tall  and  so  thin,  so  innocently  frank,  it  was  as  if  she  had  come  down  from  the  west  front  of  Chartres  into  a  world  where  she  was  a  stranger.  There  was  nothing  remarkable  in  what  she  had  to  say.  She  wanted  tofind  a  hostel  somewhere  away  from  Lon-  don-but  not  far,  because  of  paying  for  the  ticket-where  she  could  be  quiet  and  go  to  compline  and  do  some  wash-  ing.  He  understood  about  washing,  for  being  poor  he  sometimes  tried  to  do  his  own.  But  her  spirituality  shone  through  her  words;  it  was  as  if  a  lily  were  speaking  of  cleanliness.  Spirituality  shone  even  more  clearly  through  her  silences.  While  he  was  searching  his  mind  for  addresses,  she  looked  at  him  with  tranquil  interest,  unconcerned  trust,  as  though  she  had  never  in  her  life  known  care  or  frustration-where-  as  from  the  lines  in  her  face  it  was  ob-  vious  she  had  known  both.  She  was  so  exceedingly  tranquil  and  trustful,  in  fact,  that  she  gave  an  impression  of  impermanence-as  if  at  any  moment  some  bidding  might  twitch  her  away.  Non-attachment,  he  remembered,  was  the  word.  The  spiritual  become  non-  attached.  &quot;Would  Bedfordshire  be  too  far?&quot;  &quot;I  don'tthink  so.  I  should  only  be  there  a  week.&quot;  He  had  remembered  one  of  the  women  in  his  life  who  had  been  kind  and  who  now  kept  a  guesthouse  near  a  Benedictine  monastery.  He  gave  her  the  address.  She  thanked  him  and  was  gone.  So  was  the  funeral  party.  The  grave  was  being  filled  in  with  increas-  ing  briskness.  That  afternoon,  he  must  preside  at  the  quarterly  meeting  of  St.  Agatha's  Guild.  The  mistake,  thought  Aurelia,  had  been  to  dwell  on  compline.  Doing  so  she  had  given  a  false  impression  of  her-  self.  The  recommended  Miss  Larke  of  St.  Hilda's  guesthouse  had  no  sooner  let  her  in  than  she  was  exclaiming,  &quot;Just  in  time,  just  in  time!  Reverend  Fogg  rang  up  to  say  you  were  com-  ing-the  silly  man  forgot  to  mention  your  name,  but  you  are  the  lady  he  met,  aren't  you?-and  that  you  would  be  going  to  compline.  I'm  afraid  we've  finished  supper.  But  I'll  keep  some  soup  hot  for  you  for  when  you  get  back.  And  here  is  Mrs.  Bouverie,  who  will  show  you  the  way.  She's  waited  on  purpose.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  do?  How  kind  of  you.  My  name  is  Lefanu.  Is  the  abbey  far  away?&quot;  &quot;If  we  start  now  we'll  make  it,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Bouverie.     They  started.  Mrs.  Bouverie  was  short  and  stout  and  she  had  a  short,  stout  manner  of  speech.  Presently  she  inquired,  &quot;R.C.  or  A.C.?&quot;  Aurelia  was  at  a  loss.  The  question  suggested  electricity  or  taps.  &quot;Roman  or  Anglo?&quot;  Aurelia  replied,  &quot;Anglo.&quot;  It  seemed  safer,  though  it  was  difficult  to  besure  in  the  dark.  &quot;&quot;Mrs.  or  Miss?&quot;  Aurelia  replied,  &quot;Miss.&quot;  She  had  felt  so  sure  that  she  would  be  fed  on  arrival  that  this  day,  too,  she  had  relied  on  buns,  resisting  those  jel-  lied  eels  which  looked  so  inter-  esting  in  the  narrow  street  that  twisted  down  to  the  river-for  instead  of  going  straight  to  the  guesthouse  she  had  spent  an  hour  or  so  exploring  the  town  to  see  if  she'd  like  it.  She  did  like  it.  But  she  had  never  eaten  jellied  eels.  She  had  never  been  to  compline,  either.  This  made  it  impossible  to  guess  how  long  it  would  go  on,  or  exactly  what  was  going  on,  except  that  people  were  invisibly  singing  or  reciting  in  lei-  sured  tones.  If  she  had  not  been  so  hungry,  Aurelia  decided,  she  could  have  understood  why  compline  should  exercise  this  charm  on  people.  There  was  a  total  lack  of  obligation  about  it  which  was  very  agreeable.  And  when  it  had  mysteriously  become  over,  and  they  were  walking  back,  and  Mrs.  Bouverie  remarked  how  beautifully  it  ended  a  day,  didn't  it,  Aurelia  agreed-  while  looking  forward  to  the  soup.  The  soup  was  lentil.  It  was  hot  and  thick,  and  she  felt  her  being  fasten  on  it.  The  room  was  full  of  chairs,  the  chairs  were  full  of  people,  the  television  was  on.  She  sat  clasping  the  mug  where  the  soup  had  been.  But  it  wilted  in  her  grasp.  She  knew  that  at  all  costs  she  must  not  faint.  &quot;Smelling  salts!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  A  flask  of  vinegar  was  pressed  to  her  nose,  her  head  was  bowed  between  her  knees.  When  she  had  been  taken  off  to  be  put  to  bed  with  a  hot-water  bottle,  Mrs.  Bouverie  an-  nounced,  &quot;She's  Anglo.&quot;  &quot;Naturally.  They  are  always  so  ab-  surdly  emotional,&quot;  said  a  lady  who  was  Roman.  Miss  Larke  returned,reporting  that  the  poor  thing  was  touchingly  grateful  and  had  forgotten  to  bring  a  nightdress.  In  the  morning  Aurelia  woke  hun-  gry  but  without  a  vestige  of  gratitude.  The  sun  shone,  a  thrush  was  singing  in  the  garden,  it  was  a  perfect  drying  day.  Aurelia,  the  replacement  of  Lucy,  was  a  nova-a  new  appearance  in  the  firmament,  the  explosion  of  an  aging  star.  A  nova  is  seen  where  no  star  was,  and  is  seen  as  a  portent,  a  promise  of  what  is  variously  desired:  a  victory,  a  pestilence,  the  birth  of  a  hero,  a  rise  in  the  price  of  corn.  To  the  man  never  be-  fore  called  Ithamore  she  was  at  last  an  object  of  art  he  could  not  account  for.  To  Lancelot  Fogg  she  was  at  last  a  spiritual  woman.  To  the  denizens  of  St.  Hilda's  guesthouse  she  was  some-  thing  new  to  talk  about-arresting  but  harmless.  At  least,  she  was  harmless  till  the  evening  she  brought  in  that  wretch-  ed  tomcat  and  insisted  on  keeping  it  as  a  pet.  If  Lancelot  Fogg  had  not  rec-  ommended  her  so  fervently,  Aurelia  with  that  misnamed  pet  of  hers  would  have  been  directed  to  lodgings  else-  where.  It  was  bad  enough  to  adopt  a  most  unhealthy-looking  tomcat,  but  to  call  the  animal  Lucy  made  it  so  much  worse;  it  seemed  a  deliberate  flout,  a  device  to  call  attention  to  the  creature's  already  too  obvious  sex.  &quot;But  why  Lucy,  Miss  Lefanu?  Surely  it's  inappropriate?&quot;  &quot;It's  a  family  name,&quot;  she  replied.  Lucy  developed  on  Aurelia's  fourth  evening  at  the  guesthouse.  She  was  again  accompanying  Mrs.  Bouverie  to  compline  when  a  distant  braying  caught  her  ear.  Looking  in  the  direc-  tion  of  the  braying,  she  saw  a  livid  glow  and  exclaimed,  &quot;A  circus!&quot;  &quot;It's  that  dreadful  fair,&quot;  Mrs.Bou-  verie  replied.  &quot;As  I  was  telling  you,  my  brother-in-law  who  had  that  delightful  place  in  [REDACTED],  not  far  from  Ba-  singstoke,  such  rhododendrons!  I've  never  seen  such  ablazeof  color  as  when  they  were  out.  ...&quot;  When  she  had  seen  Mrs.  Bouverie  safely  down  on  her  knees,  Aurelia  stole  away  and  went  off  to  find  the  fair.  Fairs,  of  course,  are  not  what  they  used  to  be,  but  they  are  still  what  they  are,  and  Aurelia  enjoyed  herself  a  great  deal  till  two  haunted  young  men  in  frock  coats  and  ringlets  attached  themselves  to  her,  saying  at  intervals,  &quot;Spare  us  a  reefer,  beautiful.  Have  a  heart.&quot;  For  they,  too,  had  seen  her  as  a  nova.  At  last  she  managed  to  give  them  the  slip  and  hurried  away  through  the  loud  entrails  of  a  Lunar  Flight.  This  brought  her  to  the  outskirts  of  the  fair,  and  it  was  there  she  saw  the  cat  lying  on  the  muddied  grass  under  the  bonnet  ofa  lorry.  Its  eyes  were  shut,  its  ears  laid  back.  It  had  gone  under  the  lorry  bonnet  for  warmth,  and  was  paying  the  price.  When  she  came  back  with  a  hot  dog,  it  had  rearranged  itself.  In  its  new  attitude  she  could  see  how  thin  it  was  and  how  despairingly  shabby.  She  knelt  down  and  addressed  it  from  a  distance.  It  heard  her,for  it  turned  its  head  away.  The  smell  of  the  hot  dog  was  more  persuasive.  It  began  to  thresh  its  " b"52  tail.  &quot;'You'lleat  when  I'm  gone,&quot;  she  said,  with  fellow-feeling,  and  scattered  bits  of  hot  dog  under  the  bonnet  and  began  to  walk  away-knowing  that  its  precarious  balance  between  mistrust  and  self-preservation  could  be  overset  by  a  glance.  She  had  left  the  fairground  and  was  turning  into  a  street  full  of  warehouses  when  she  saw  that  the  cat,  limping  and  cringing,  was  following  her.  She  stopped,  and  it  came  on  till  it  was  beside  her.  Then  it  sat  down  and  raised  its  face  toward  her.  Its  expression  was  completely  mute-and  familiar.  The  cat  was  exactly  like  her  cousin  Lucy.  When  she  picked  it  up  it  relaxed  in  her  arms,  rubbed  its  head  against  her  shoulder,  and  purred.  The  cat  took  it  absolutely  for  granted  that  it  should  be  carried  off  by  a  deity.  Still  throned  in  her  arms,  it  blinked  serenely  at  the  mortals  in  the  guesthouse,  sure  that  they  soon  would  be  disposed  of.  There  were  a  great  many  things  to  be  done  for  Lucy.  His  suppurating  paw  had  to  be  dressed,  his  ears  had  to  be  cleaned  and  his  coat  brushed,  food  had  to  be  bought  for  him,  and  four  times  a  day  he  had  to  be  exercised  in  the  garden.  In  the  intervals  of  this,  his  fleas  had  to  be  dealt  with.  Using  a  fine-  tooth  comb  she  searched  them  out,  pounced  on  them,  dropped  them  in  a  bowl  of  soapy  water,  resumed  the  search.  It  was  a  dreamlike  occupation:  it  put  her  in  touch  with  the  infinite.  Twenty.  Thirty.  Forty-seven.  Fifty-  two.  From  time  to  time  she  looked  sharply  at  the  bow!]  of  soapy  water  and  pushed  back  any  wretches  that  had  struggled  to  the  rim.  The  total  of  fleas  went  up  in  bounds.  The  money  in  her  purse  de-  creased.  Even  using  the  utmost  econo-  my,  stealing  whenever  she  conven-  iently  could,  having  sardines  put  down  to  Miss  Larke,  she  would  not  be  left  with  enough  to  pay  for  a  second  week  at  the  guesthouse.  Lucy's  paw  healed  slowly;  it  would  be  some  while  yet  before  he  could  provide  for  himself.  She  noticed  that  Lucy's  paw  was  in-  creasingly  asked  about;  that  sug-  gestions  for  his  welfare  multiplied.  &quot;I  wonder  why  you  don't  put  an  advertisement  in  the  local  paper,  say-  ing  'Found.'  All  this  time  his  real  own-  ers  may  be  hunting  for  him,  longing  to  get  him  back.&quot;  Aurelia  looked  deeply  at  the  speak-  er.  It  might  be  worth  trying.  There  is  no  harm  in  blackmail,  since  no  one  is  obliged  to  give  in  to  it.  On  the  other  hand,  it  is  nogood  unless  they  do.  She  composed  two  letters:  &quot;Unless  you  send  me  fifty  pounds  in  notes,  I     shan't  be  able  to  come  back.&quot;  &quot;Unless  you  send  me  fifty  pounds  in  notes,  I  shall  be  forced  to  return.&quot;  Combing  out  fleas  to  a  new  rhythm  of  &quot;He  loves  me,  he  loves  me  not,&quot;  she  weighed  these  alternatives.  The  sec-  ond  would  probably  have  the  stronger  appeal  to  Aston's  heart.  Poor  Aston,  she  had  defrauded  him  too  long  of  the  calm  expansion  of  widowerhood.  But  the  stomach  is  a  practical  organ;  the  first  alternative  might  be  the  morecom-  pelling.  She  did  not,  of  course,  mean  to  return,  in  either  case.  Since  her  adoption  of  Lucy,  she  had  become  so  unshakably  Aure-  lia  that  she  could  contem-  plate  being  Lucy,  too,  so  far  as  being  Lucy  would  further  Aurelia's  designs.  But  Lucy,  the  former  Lucy,  must  be  Aurelia's  property.  There  must  be  no  little  esca-  pades  into  identity,  no  endorsing  of  checks,  no  more  slidings  into  Lucy  Ridpath.  That  was  why  the  money  must  come  in  notes.  Even  so,  who  was  it  to  be  addressed  to?  It  was  time  for  Lucy  to  scratch  in  the  garden.  For  the  first  time,  he  tried  to  scratch  with  both  hind  legs.  Every-  thing  became  easy.  Whichever  the  chosen  form  of  the  letter  demanding  money  with  menaces,  Aurelia,  sign-  ing  with  a  capital  &quot;L,&quot;  would  ask  for  the  money  to  be  directed  to  Miss  Le-  fanu,  poste  restante.  Lucy  had  been  Lefanu  when  Aston  married  her.  He  could  not  have  forgotten  this;  it  might  even  touch  his  heart  and  dispose  him  to  add  another  five  pounds.  All  that  remained  was  to  decide  which  letter  to  send,  and  to  post  it  from  Bedford,  which  was  nearby  and  noncommittal.  The  envelope  had  been  postedbefore  she  realized  that  both  letters  were  en-  closed.  \xe2\x80\x9cECY\xe2\x80\x99S  handwriting,&quot;  said  Aston.  &quot;She's  alive.  What  an  infinite  relief!&quot;  &quot;I  never  supposed  she  wasn't,&quot;  said  Vere.  &quot;Still,  if  it's  a  relief  to  you  to  see  her  handwriting-it  doesn't  seem  such  a  niggle  as  usual,  but  that's  her  'R'-I'm  sure  I'm  glad.&quot;  &quot;But  Vere,  on  Monday  evening,  on  Monday  evening,  you  said  I  must  ring  up  the  police  or  I  should  be  suspected  of  murdering  her.&quot;  &quot;So  you  would  have  been.  They  always  jump  to  conclusions.  Well,  what  does  Lucy  say?&quot;  The  letters  had  been  folded  up  to-  gether.  The  first  alternative  was  up-  permost.  &quot;She  seems  to  have  got  into  some  sort  of  trouble.  She  says  she  can't  come  home  unless  I  send  her  fifty  pounds.&quot;  &quot;Fifty  pounds?  Where  is  she,  then.  California?&quot;  &quot;''The  postmark  is  Bedford.  She's  gone  back  to  her  maiden  name.&quot;  &quot;Fifty  pounds  to  get  back  from  Bed-  ford.  Fifty  pounds!  She  must  have  got  herself  mixed  up  in  something  pretty  fishy.  Yes.  I  heard  only  the  other  day  that  Bedford  is  an  absolute  hotbed  of  the  drug  traffic.  That's  what  she  wants  the  money  for.  Poor  silly  Lucy,  she'd  be  wax  in  their  hands.  Aston!  You'll  have  to  think  very  carefully,  apart  from  this  absurd  demand  for  money,  about  having  her  back.  If  she  were  here  alone  all  day  with  no  one  to  keep  an  eye  on  her-  What  does  she  say  on  the  second  sheet?&quot;  &quot;Is  there  a  second  sheet?  I  hadn't  noticed.  She  says-  Vere,  I  can't  make  this  out.  She  says,  'Unless  you  send  me  fifty  pounds  in  notes  I  shall  be  forced  to  return.  &quot;  &quot;Nonsense,  Aston!  You're  mis-  reading  it.  She  just  made  a  fair  copy  and  then  put  them  both  in.&quot;  &quot;But  Vere,  she  says  unless  I  send  her  the  money  she  will  be  forced  to  return.&quot;  &quot;She  must  be  raving.  Why  on  earth  should  she  expect  you  to  pay  her  to  keep  away?  Let  me  see,&quot;  After  a  pause,  she  said,  &quot;My  poor  Aston.&quot;  Her  voice  was  heavy  with  commiser-  ation.  It  fell  on  Aston  like  a  wet  sponge.  His  brief  guilty  dazzle  of  relief  (for  so  long  as  Lucy  wasn't  dead  he  really  didn't  want  to  live  with  her  again;  what  he  wanted  was  manly  solitude,  and  he  had  already  taken  the  first  steps  toward  getting  shotof  Vere)  sizzled  out.  &quot;Poor  Lucy!  I  must  send  her  some-  thing,  I  suppose.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you  ought  to.  But  not  too  much.  Ten  pounds  would  be  ample.  What's  Bedford?  No  way  at  all.&quot;  When  Aurelia  called  at  the  post  of-  fice,  the  clerk  handed  her  two  letters.  She  opened  Aston's  first.  Dear  Lucy,  I  will  not  try  to  persuade  you.  The  heart  has  its  reasons.  But  if  a  time  ever  comes  when  you  want  to  come  back,  re-  member  there  will  always  be  a  door  on  the  latch  and  a  light  in  the  window.  I  will  say  nothing  of  the  anxiety  your  leaving  without  a  word  has  caused  me.  Aston  Four  five-pound  notes  were  enclosed.  The  other  letter  was  from  Vere.  It  ran:  Aston  is  now  recovering,  I  will  thank-  fully  pay  you  to  keep  away.  This  letter  was  accompanied  by  ten  ten-pound  notes.  Aurelia  bought  Lucy  some  tinned  salmon  and  a  handsome  travelling  bas-  ket.  But  forthe  greater  part  ofthat  " b"56  afternoon's  journey,  Lucy  sat  erect  on  her  knee  looking  out  of  the  window  and  held  like  a  diviner's  twig  by  his  two  front  legs.  She  relied  on  Lucy  to  know  at  a  snuff  which  station  to  get  out  at,  just  as  he  had  known  how  to  succeed  in  blackmailing-for  while  she  was  debat-  ing  which  of  the  two  letters  to  send  he  had  leaped  onto  the  table,  laid  his  head  on  her  hand,  and  rolled  with  such  ardor  and  abandonment  that  she  forgot  all  else  so  that  both  letters  went  off  in  the  one  envelope.  Relying  on  Lucy,  she  had  chosen  a  stopping  train.  It  joggled  through  a  green  unemphatic  landscape  with  many  willow  trees  and  an  vcca-  sional  broached  spire.  Lucy  remained  unmoved.  She  began  to  wonder  if  his  tastes  ran  to  the  romantic,  if  high  mountains  were  to  him  a  feeling-in  which  case  she  had  brought  him  to  quite  the  wrong  part  of  England.  In  the  op-  posite  corner  sat  a  man  with  leather  patches  on  his  elbows,  paying  them  no  attention.  Then  at  a  station  called  Peckover  Junction  two  ladies  got  in,  and  resumed  (they  were  travelling  to-  gether)  a  conversation  about  their  grandchildren.  From  their  grandchil-  dren  they  turned  to  the  ruin  of  the  countryside-New  Towns,  overspill,  and  holiday  camps.  &quot;Look  at  those  caravans!  They've  got  here,  now.&quot;  &quot;Don't  speak  to  me  of  caravans,&quot;  said  the  other  lady.  Disregarding  this,  the  first  lady  asked  if  there  were  as  many  as  ever  at  poor  Betcombe.  &quot;More!  Such  hideosities  .  ..  and  the  children!  Swarming  everywhere.  I  shall  never  find  a  tenant  now.  Besides,  all  these  new  people  have  such  grand  ideas.  They  must  have  this,  they  must  have  that.  They  don't  appreciate  the  past.  For  me,  that's  its  charm.  If  it  weren't  for  the  caravans,  I'd  be  at  Betcombe  still,  glorying  in  my  beams  and  my  pump.  Do  you  know,  it  was  eighteenth-cen-  tury,  my  pump?&quot;  &quot;Would  you  like  me  as  a  tenant?&quot;  said  Aurelia.  &quot;I  can't  give  you  any  references  just  now,  but  I'd  pay  ten  shillings  a  week.  No,  darling!&quot;  This  last  remark  was  addressed  to  Lucy,  who  had  driven  his  claws  into  her  thigh.  &quot;'Ten  shillings  a  week-for  my  lovely  little  cottage?&quot;  &quot;A  pound  a  week.&quot;  &quot;Really,  this  is  so  sudden,  so  un-  usual.  No  references...and  I  sup-  pose  you'd  be  bringing  that  cat.  I'm  a  bird-lover.  No,  I'm  afraid  it's  out  of  the  question.  Come,  Mary,  we  get  out  here.&quot;  For  the  train  was  coming  to  a  halt.  Both  ladies  gathered  their  belongings  and  got  out.  From  the  window  Au-  relia  saw  them  get  in  again,  a  few  car-  riages  farther  up.  &quot;You're  well  out  of  that,&quot;  observed  the  man  with  leather  patches.  &quot;I  know  her  place.  It's  a  hovel.  No  room  to  swing  a  cat  in,  begging  your  cat's  pardon.&quot;  Lucy  rounded  himself  like  a  poul-  tice  above  his  scratch.  Aurelia  said  she  expected  she  had  been  silly.  The  train  went  on.  An  atmosphere  of  acquaint-  ance  established  itself.  Presently  the  man  asked  if  she  hadany  particular  place  in  mind.  &quot;No.  Not  exactly.  I'm  a  stranger.&quot;  &quot;Because  I  happen  to  know  of  something  that  might  suit  you-if  you  don't  object  to  it  being  a  bit  out  of  the  way.  It's  a  bungalow,  and  it's  mod-  ern.  If  you're  agreeable,  I'll  take  you  to  see  it.&quot;  It  was  impossible  not  to  be  agree-  able,  because  he  was  so  plainly  a  shy  man  and  surprised  at  finding  himself  intervening.  So  when  he  got  out  she  got  out  with  him,  and  he  took  her  to  a  Railway  Arms  where  she  and  Lucy  would  be  comfortable,  and  said  he  would  call  for  her  at  ten  the  next  morning.  He  was  exactly  punctual.  When  she  had  assured  him  how  comfort-  able  she  and  Lucy  had  been,  there  seemed  to  be  nothing  more  to  say.  For-  tunately,  he  was  one  of  those  drivers  who  give  their  whole  mind  to  driving.  They  drove  in  his  van.  It  was  let-  tered  &quot;George  Bastable,  Builder  and  Plumber,&quot;  and  among  the  things  in  the  back  was  a  bathtub  wrapped  in  cellophane.  They  drove  eastward,  through  the  same  uneventful  landscape.  He  turned  the  van  into  a  track  that  ran  uphill-  only  slightly  uphill,  but  in  that  flat  landscape  it  seemed  consid-  4A  erable.  &quot;There  it  is.&quot;  A  spinney  of  mixed  trees  ran  along  the  top  of  the  ridge.  Smoke  was  rising  through  the  boughs.  So  she  would  have  a  neighbor.  She  had  not  reckoned  on  that.  But  the  smoke  was  rising  from  the  chimney  of  a  bungalow,  and  there  was  no  other  building  there.  He  must  have  got  up  very  early,  for  the  fire  was  well  established,  the  room  was  warm  and  felt  inhabited.  The  kitchen  floor  was  newly  washed  and  a  newspaper  path  was  spread  across  it.  &quot;You'd  find  it  comfortable,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  she  said,  looking  at  the  two  massive  armchairs  that  faced  each  other  across  a  hideous  hearth  mat.  &quot;It  hasn't  been  lived  in  for  three  years,  though  I  come  out  from  time  to  time  to  give  alook  to  it.  But  no  damp  any  where-that'll  show  how  sound  it  is.&quot;  &quot;No.  It  feels  wonderfully  dry,&quot;  she  said,  looking  ata  flight  of  blue  pottery  birds  on  the  wall.  Lucy  was  shaking  his  basket.  &quot;May  I  let  your  cat  out?  He'd  like  a  run,  and  I  daresay  he'd  pick  up  a  break-  fast,  bird's-nesting.&quot;  Before  she  could  answer,  he  had  unfastened  the  lid  and  Lucy  had  bounded  over  the  threshold.  How  was  she  to  answer  this  man  who  had  taken  so  much  trouble  and  was  so  proud  of  his  bungalow?  &quot;Did  you  build  it  yourself?&quot;  &quot;I  did.  That's  why  I  know  it's  a  good  one.  I  built  it  for  my  young  lady.  When  I  saw  you  in  the  train,  you  put  me  in  mind  of  her,  somehow.  So  when  you  said  you  wanted  somewhere  to  live-&quot;  He  stared  at  her,  standing  po-  litely  at  a  distance,  trying  to  recapture  the  appearance  of  his  nova  in  this  half-  hearted  lady,  no  longer  young.  The  house  had  stood  empty  for  three  years.  She  had  died.  Poor  Mr.  Bas-  table!  Aurelia's  face  assumed  the  right  expression.  &quot;She  left,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;How  could  she?&quot;  rclia.  This  time,  there  was  no  need  to  put  on  the  right  expression.  She  was  whole-  heartedly  shocked  at  the  behavior  of  Mr.  Bastable's  young  lady-and  if  the  young  lady  had  come  in  just  then  she  would  haveboxed  the  ungrateful  minx's  ears.  Instead,  it  was  Lucy  who  trotted  in,  looking  smug,  with  frag-  ments  of  eggshell  plastered  to  his  chops,  sat  down  in  front  of  the  fire,  and  began  cleaning  himself.  Mr.  Bastable  re-  marked  that  Lucy  had  found  a  robin's  nest.  He  was  grateful  for  Aurelia's  indignation  but  shy  of  saying  so.  He  suspected  he  had  gone  too  far.  Some-  what  to  his  surprise  he  learned  that  Aurelia  would  like  to  move  into  his  lovely  bungalow  immediately.  He  drove  her  to  the  village  to  do  her  shopping,  came  back  to  show  her  where  the  coal  was  kept,  gave  her  the  key.  Watching  him  drive  away  she  suddenly  became  aware  of  the  landscape  she  would  soon  be  taking  for  granted.  It  sparkled  with  crisscrossing  drains  and  ditches;  a  river  wound  through  it.  A  herd  of  caravans  was  peacefully  grazing  in  the  distance.  exclaimed  Au-  APPINESS  is  an  immunity.  In  a  matter  of  days  Aurelia  was  un-  affected  by  the  flight  of  blue  pottery  birds,  sat  in  armchairs  so  massive  she  could  not  move  them  and  felt  no  wish  to  move  them,  slept  deliciously  be-  " b"58  tween  pink  nylon  sheets.  With  im-  munity  she  watched  Lucy  sharpening  his  claws  on  the  massive  armchairs.  She  had  a  naturally  happy  disposition  and  preferred  to  live  in  the  present.  Happiness  immunized  her  from  the  past-for  why  look  back  for  what  has  slipped  from  one's  possession?-and  from  the  future,  which  may  never  even  be  possessed.  Perhaps  never  in  the  past,  perhaps  never  in  the  future  had  she  been,  could  she  be,  so  happy  as  she  was  now.  The  cuckoo  woke  her;  she  fell  asleep  to  Lucy's  purr.  In  the  mornings  he  had  usually  left  a  dent  beside  her  and  gone  out  for  his  sun-  rising.  Whatever  one  may  say  about  bungalows,  they  are  ideal  for  cats.  She  hunted  his  fleas  on  Sundays  and  Thursdays.  He  was  now  so  strong  and  splendid  that  for  the  rest  of  the  week  he  could  perfectly  well  deal  with  them  himself.  She  lived  with  carefree  econ-  omy,  seldom  using  more  than  a  single  plate,  drinking  water  to  save  rinsing  the  teapot,  and  as  far  aspossible  cat-  ing  raw  foods,  which  entailed  the  min-  imum  of  washing  up.  Every  Saturday  she  bought  seven  new-laid  eggs,  hard-  boiled  them,  and  spaced  them  out  dur-  ing  the  week-a  trick  she  had  learned  from  Vasari's  &quot;Lives  of  the  Artists.&quot;  It  was  not  an  adequate  diet  for  any-  one  leading  an  active  life,  but  her  life  was  calculatedly  inactive-as  though  she  were  convalescing  from  some  for-  gotten  illness.  On  Saturday  evenings  Mr.  Basta-  ble  called  to  collect  the  rent  and  to  see  if  anything  needed  doing-a  nail  knocked  in  ora  tap  tightened  up.  He  always  brought  some  sort  of  present:  a  couple  of  pigeons,  the  first  tomatoes  from  his  greenhouse,  breakfast  rad-  shes.  As  the  summer  deepened,  the  presents  enlarged  into  basketloads  of  green  peas,  bunches  of  roses,  straw-  berries,  sleek  dessert  gooseberries.  But  as  the  summer  deepened  and  in  spite  of  all  the  presents  and  economies,  Au-  relia's  wealth  of  one  hundredand  twenty  pounds  lessened,  and  she  knew  she  must  turn  her  mind  to  doing  some-  thing  about  this.  She  could  not  dig;  there  was  no  one  but  Mr.  Bastable  to  beg  from.  The  times  were  gone  when  one  could  take  in  plain  sewing.  Sur-  veying  the  landscape  she  had  come  to  take  for  granted,  she  saw  the  caravans  in  a  new  light-no  longer  peacefully  grazing  but  fermenting  with  ambitions  and  cultural  unrest.  By  now  they  must  have  bought  all  the  picture  postcards  at  the  shop.  She  had  always  wanted  to  paint.  For  all  she  knew,  she  might  turn  out  to  be  quite  good  at  it.  Willows  would  be  easy-think  of  all  the  artists  who  paint-     ed  them.  By  now  the  caravaners  must  be  tired  of  looking  at  real  willows  and  would  welcome  a  change  to  represen-  tational  art.  She  took  the  bus  to  Wis-  bech,  found  an  arts-and-crafts  shop,  bought  paper,  brushes,  gouache  paints,  and  a  small  easel.  That  same  evening  shedid  two  pictures  of  willows-one  tranquil,  one  storm-tossed.  Three  days  later,  she  set  up  the  easel  on  the  out-  skirts  of  the  caravan  site  and  began  a  caravan  from  life.  It  was  harder  than  willows-there  were  no  precursors  to  inspire  her-but  when  she  had  com-  plied  with  a  few  suggestions  from  the  caravan's  owner  she  made  her  sale  and  received  two  further  commissions.  By  the  beginning  of  August  she  was  rich  enough  to  go  on  to  oils-which  was  more  fun  and  on  the  whole  easier.  It  was  remarkable  how  easily  she  painted,  and  with  what  assurance.  The  demand  was  chiefly  for  caravans.  She  varied  them,  as  Monet  varied  his  hay-  stacks.  Caravan  with  buckets,.  Cara-  van  with  sunset.  Pink  caravan.  One  patron  wanted  a  group  of  cows-  though  his  children  were  cold  toward  them.  She  evaded  portraits,  but  yielded  to  a  request  for  an  abstract.  This  was  the  only  commission  that  really  taxed  her.  Do  as  she  might,  it  kept  on  com-  ing  out  like  a  draper's  window  display.  But  she  mastered  it  in  the  end,  and  signed  it  &quot;A.  Lefanu,&quot;  like  the  rest.  By  the  end  of  September  she  had  made  enough  to  keep  her  in  idleness  till  Christmas-when  she  would  have  thought  of  something  else.  Winter  would  bring  a  new  variety  of  happiness-slower,  more  conscious,  and  with  more  strategy  in  it.  The  gales  of  the  equinox  blowing  across  the  flats  struck  at  the  spinney  along  the  ridge,  blew  down  one  tree,  and  shook  deadwood  out  of  others.  Here  was  an  honest  occupation.  She  set  herself  to  build  up  a  store  of  fuel  against  the  win-  ter.  It  was  heavy  work  dragging  the  larger  branches  over  the  rough  ground  clogged  with  brambles  and  tall  grass,  but  Lucy  lightened  it  by  flirting  round  her  as  she  worked,  darting  after  the  tail  of  the  branches,  ambushing  them  and  leaping  on  them  as  they  rustled  by.  She  was  collecting  fuel,  Lucy  was  growing  a  thick  new  coat;  both  of  them  were  preparing  their  defenses  against  the  wintry  months  ahead.  Mr.  Bastable  said  that  by  all  the  signs  it  would  be  a  hard  winter,  preceded  by  333???  Justas  Shake,  much  rain  and  wind.  He  advised  her  to  get  her  wood  in  before  the  rain  fell  and  made  the  ground  too  soggy  to  shift  it.  If  she  manages  the  first  winter,  he  thought,  she  will  settle.  Though  she  was  an  ungrateful  tenant,  or  at  any  rate  an  inattentive  receiver,  he  wanted  her  to  settle;  it  delighted  him  to  see  her  making  these  prepara-  tions.  Later  on,  he  would  complete  them  by  chopping  the  heavier  pieces  into  nice  little  logs.  Taking  Mr.  Basta-  ble's  advice,  Aurelia  decided  to  get  the  wood  in,  working  on  till  the  dusk  was  scythed  by  the  headlights  of  passing  cars,  till  Lucy  vanished  into  a  different  existence  of  being  a  thing  audible-a  sudden  plop  or  a  scuffling.  She  never  had  to  call  him  when  she  went  indoors.  By  the  time  she  was  on  the  threshold  he  was  there,  rubbing  against  her,  rais-  ing  his  feet  in  a  ritual  exaggeration.  He  was  orderly  in  his  ways,  a  timekeeper.  He  took  himself  in  and  out,  but  rarely  strayed.  When  she  came  back  from  selling  those  unprincipled  canvases,  he  was  always  waiting  about  forher,  curled  up  on  the  lid  of  the  water  butt,  drowsing  under  the  elder,  sitting  prim-  ly  on  the  sill  ofthe  window  left  open  for  him.  He  was  happy  enough  out  of  her  sight,  but  he  liked  to  have  her  with-  in  his.  So  she  told  herself,later  on,  that  foggy,  motionless  November  evening  when  he  had  not  come  in  at  his  usual  time.  Shehad  kindled  a  fire,  not  that  it  was  cold-indeed,  it  was  oddly  warm  and  fusty;  but  the  fog  made  it  cheer-  less.  It  was  a  night  to  pull  the  curtains  closer,  listen  to  the  snap  and  crackle  of  a  brief  fire,  go  early  to  bed.  She  had  left  the  curtains  unclosed,  however.  If  Lucy  saw  that  a  fire  had  been  kindled,  he  would  be  drawn  from  whatever  busied  him.  He  was  a  very  chimney-  corner  cat,  although  he  was  a  tom.  Twice  the  brief  fire  died  down,  twice  she  made  it  up  again.  She  went  to  the  door,  peered  uselessly  into  the  fog,  called  him.  It  was  frightening  to  call  into  that  silent,  immediate  obscurity.  &quot;Lucy.  Lucy.&quot;  She  waited.  No  Lucy.  She  must  re-  sign  herself  to  it.  Tonight  Lucy  was  engaged  in  being  a  tom.  As  she  stood  there,  resigning  herself  to  it  and  strain-  ing  her  ears,  she  felt  the  damp  of  the  foggy  air  pricked  with  a  fine  drizzling  rain.  A  minute  later,  the  rain  was  fall-  ing  steadily;  not  hard  but  steadily.  She  had  not  the  courage  to  go  on  calling.  The  pitch  of  her  voice  had  frightened  her;  it  sounded  so  anxious.  She  went  indoors  and  sat  down  to  wait.  On  a  different  night  she  would  have  left  the  window  open  and  gone  to  bed,  and  in  the  morning  Lucy  would  have  been  " b"       there,  too,  and  in  her  sleep  her  arm  would  have  gone  out  and  round  him.  With  the  rain,  it  had  become  colder.  She  added  coal  to  the  fire.  It  blazed  up  but  did  not  warm  her.  She  counted  the  blue  pottery  birds  and  listened.  She  listened  for  so  long  that  finally  she  be-  came  incapable  of  listening,  and  when  there  was  a  sound  which  was  not  the  interminable  close  patter  of  rain  she  did  not  hear  it,  only  knew  that  she  had  heard  something.  A  dragging  sound  .  ..  the  sound  of  something  being  dragged  along  the  path  to  the  door.  It  had  ceased.  It  began  again.  Ceased.  When  she  snatched  the  door  open,  she  could  see  nothing  but  the  rain,  a  ||  curtain  of  flashing  arrows  lit  by  her  lighted  room.  A  noise  directed  her-a  tremulous  yowl.  He  struck  at  her  fee-  bly  when  she  stooped  to  pick  him  up,  then  dragged  himself  on  into  the  light  of  the  doorway.  She  fell  on  her  knees.  This  sodden  shapeless  thing  was  Lucy.  He  looked  at  her  with  one  eye;  the  other  sagged  on  his  cheek,  His  jaw  dangled.  One  side  of  his  head  had  been  smashed  in;  his  front  leg  was  broken.  When  she  touched  him  he  shrank  from  her  hand  and  yowled  beseeching-  ly.  Slowly,  distortedly,  he  hitched  him-  self  over  the  threshold,  across  the  room,  tried  to  sit  up  before  the  fire,  fell  over,  and  lay  twitching  and  gasping  for  breath.  When  at  last  she  dared  touch  him,  his  racing  heartbeats  were  like  a  machine  fastened  in  him.  She  talked  to  him  and  stroked  his  uninjured  paw.  He  did  not  shrink  from  her  now,  and  per-  haps  her  voice  lulled  him  as  the  plump-  ness  of  his  muscular  soft  paw  lulled  her,  for  he  relaxed  and  curled  his  tail  round  his  flank  as  though  he  were  pre-  paring  to  fall  asleep.  Long  after  he  seemed  to  be  dead,  the  implacable  ma-  chine  beat  on.  Then  it  faltered,  stum-  bled,  began  again  at  a  slower  rate,  fluttered.  A  leaden  tint  suffused  his  eye  and  his  lolling  tongue.  His  breath-  ing  stopped.  He  flattened.  It  was  in-  conceivable  that  he  could  ever  have  been  loved,  handsome,  alive.  &quot;Lucy!&quot;  The  ery  broke  from  her.  It  unloosed  another.  &quot;Aurelia!&quot;  She  could  not  call  back  the  one  or  the  other.  She  was  Lucy  Ridpath,  look-  ing  at  a  dead  cat  who  had  never  known  her.  The  agony  of  dislocation  was  prosaic.  She  endured  it  because  it  was  there.  It  admitted  no  hope,  so  she  endured  it  without  the  support  of  resentment.  HE  rain  had  gone  on  all  the  time  and  was  still  going  on.  Lucy  Rid-  path's  mackintosh  was  hanging  in  the  " b'62  Tequila  civilized.  For  200  years,  tequila  has  been  a  bit  wild  in  the  saddle.  Tequila  Mariachi  is  differ-  ent.  We  make  it  especially  for  north-of-the-border  tastes.  Latin  spirit  with  a  calm  disposition.  Trust  us.  Now  you  can  en-  joy  a  delicious  margarita,  tequila  sour,  tequila  collins,  tequila  anything.  Mariachi.  The  tequila  for  gringos.  Imported  Tequila,  80  Frouf,  Calvert  Dist.  Co.,  N.Y.C.      '