b"24  A  LOOK  AT  ORGANIZED  CRIME  in  [REDACTED]  takes  in  over  forty  bil-  lion  dollars  a  year.  This  is  quite  a  profitable  sum,  especially  when  one  considers  that  the  Mafia  spends  very  little  for  office  supplies.  Reliable  sources  indicate  that  the  Cosa  Nostra  laid  out  no  more  than  six  thousand  dollars  last  year  for  personalized  stationery,  and  even  less  for  staples.  Furthermore,  they  have  one  secretary  who  does  all  the  typing,  and  only  three  small  rooms  for  headquarters,  which  they  share  with  the  Fred  Persky  Dance  Studio.  Last  year,  organized  crime  was  di-  rectly  responsible  for  more  than  one  hundred  murders,  and  partici-  pated  indirectly  in  several  hundred  more,  either  by  lending  the  killers  car-  fare  orby  holding  their  coats.  Other  illicit  activities  engaged  inby  Cosa  Nostra  members  included  gambling,  narcotics,  prostitution,  hijacking,  loan-  sharking,  and  the  transportation  of  a  large  whitefishacross  a  state  line  for  immoral  purposes.  The  tentacles  of  this  corrupt  empire  even  reach  in-  to  the  government  itself.  Only  a  few  months  ago,  two  gang  lords  under  federal  indictment  spent  the  night  at  IT  is  no  secret  that  organized  crime     the  White  House,  and  the  President  slept  on  the  sofa.  Hisrory  oF  ORGANIZED  CRIME  IN  THE  UniITEDp  Srares  N  1921,  Thomas  (The  Butcher)  Covello  and  Ciro  (The  Tailor)  Santucci  attempted  to  organize  dispa-  rate  ethnic  groups  ofthe  underworld  and  thus  take  over  [REDACTED].  This  was  foiled  when  Albert  (The  Logical  Posi-  tivist)  Corillo  assassinated  Kid  Lipsky  by  locking  him  in  a  closet  and  sucking  all  the  air  out  through  a  straw.  Lipsky's  brother  Mendy  (alias  Mendy  Lewis,  alias  Mendy  Larsen,  alias  Mendy  Ali-  as)  avenged  Lipsky's  murder  by  ab-  ducting  Santucei's  brother  Gaetano  (also  known  as  Little  Tony,  or  Rabbi  Henry  Sharpstein)  and  returning  him  several  weeks  later  in  twenty-seven  separate  mason  jars.  This  signalled  the  beginning  of  a  bloodbath.  Dominick  (The  Herpetologist)  Mione  shot  Lucky  Lorenzo  (so  nick-  named  when  a  bomb  that  went  off  in  his  hat  failed  to  kill  him)  outside  a  bar  in  [REDACTED].  In  return,  Corillo  and  his  men  traced  Mione  to  [REDACTED]  and  made  his  head  into  a  wind  instrument.  At  this  point,  the  Vitale  gang,  run  by  Giuseppe  Vitale  (real  name  Quincy  Baedeker),  made  their  move  to  take  over  all  bootlegging  in  [REDACTED]  from  Irish  Larry  Doyle-a  racketeer  so  sus-  picious  that  he  refused  to  let  anybody  in  New  York  ever  get  behind  him,  and  walked  down  the  street  constantly  pir-  ouetting  and  spinning  around.  Doyle  was  killed  when  the  Squillante  Con-  struction  Company  decided  to  erect  their  new  offices  on  the  bridge  of  his  nose.  Doyle's  lieutenant,  Little  Petey  (Big  Petey)  Ross,  now  took  com-  mand;  he  resisted  theVitale  takeover  and  lured  Vitale  to  an  empty  midtown  garage  on  the  pretext  that  a  costume  party  was  being  held  there.  Unsuspect-  ing,  Vitale  walked  into  the  garage  dressed  as  a  giant  mouse,  and  was  in-  stantly  riddled  with  machine-gun  bul-  lets.  Out  of  lovalty  to  their  slain  chicf,  Vitale's  men  immediately  defected  to  Ross.  So  did  Vitale's  fianc\xc3\xa9e,  Bea  Mo-  retti,  a  showgirl  and  star  of  the  hit  [REDACTED]  musical  &quot;Say  Kaddish,&quot;  who  wound  up  marrying  Ross,  although  she  later  sued  him  for  divorce,  charging  that  he  once  spread  an  unpleasant  ointment  on  her.  Fearing  federal  intervention,  Vin-  cent  Columbraro,  the  Buttered  Toast  King,  called  for  a  truce.  (Columbraro  had  such  tight  control  over  all  buttered  toast  moving  in  and  out  of  New  Jersey  that  one  word  from  him  could  ruin  breakfast  for  two-thirds  of  the  nation.)  All  members  of  the  underworld  were  summoned  to  a  diner  in  Perth  Amboy,  where  Columbraro  told  them  that  in-  ternal  warfare  must  stop  and  that  from  then  on  they  had  to  dress  decently  and  stop  slinking  around.  Letters  formerly  signed  with  a  black  hand  would  in  the  future  be  signed  &quot;Best  Wishes,&quot;  and  all  territory  would  be  divided  equally,  with  New  Jersey  going  to  Columbraro's  mother.  Thus  the  Mafia,  or  Cosa  Nostra  (literally,  &quot;my  under-  wear&quot;  or  &quot;our  underwear&quot;  ),  was  born.  T  wo  days  later,  Columbraro  got  into  a  nice  hot  tub  to  take  a  bath  and  has  been  missing  for  the  past  forty-six  years.  Mos  Srrverure  HE  Cosa  Nostra  is  structured  like  any  government  or  large  corpora-  tion-or  group  of  gangsters,  forthat  matter.  At  the  top  is  the  capo  di  tutti  capi,  or  boss  of  all  bosses.  Meetings  are  held  at  his  house,  and  he  is  responsible  for  supplying  cold  cuts  and  ice  cubes.  Failure  to  do  so  means  instant  death.  (Death,  incidentally,  is  one  of  the  worst  things  that  can  happen  to  a  Cosa  Nostra  member,  and  many  prefer  sim-  ply  to  pay  a  fine.)  Under  the  boss  of  " b"  bosses  are  his  lieutenants,  each  of  whom  runs  one  section  of  town  with  his  &quot;family.&quot;  Mafia  families  do  not  consist  of  a  wife  and  children  who  always  go  places  like  the  circus  or  on  picnics.  They  are  actually  groups  of  rather  serious  men,  whose  main  joy  in  life  comes  from  seeing  how  long  certain  people  can  stay  under  [REDACTED]  before  they  start  gurgling.  Initiation  into  the  Mafia  is  quite  complicated.  A  proposed  member  is  blindfolded  and  led  into  a  dark  room.  Pieces  of  Cranshaw  melon  are  placed  in  his  pockets,  and  he  is  required  to  hop  around  on  one  foot  and  cry  out,  &quot;Toodles!  Toodles!&quot;  Next,  his  lower  lip  is  pulled  out  and  snapped  back  by  all  the  members  of  the  board,  or  com-  missione;  some  may  even  wish  to  do  it  twice.  Following  this,  some  oats  are  put  on  his  head.  If  he  complains,  he  is  disqualified.  If,  however,  he  says,  &quot;Good,  I  like  oats  on  my  head,&quot;  he  is  welcomed  into  the  brotherhood.  This  is  done  by  kissing  him  on  the  cheek  and  shaking  his  hand.  From  that  moment  on,  he  is  not  permitted  to  eat  chutney,  to  amuse  his  friends  by  imitating  a  hen,  or  to  kill  anybody  named  Vito.  ConcLustons  ORGANIZED  crime  is  a  blight  on  our  nation.  While  many  young  556e6974656420537461746573ns  are  lured  into  a  career  of  crime  by  its  promise  of  an  easy  life,  most  criminals  actually  must  work  long  hours,  frequently  in  buildings  without  air-conditioning.  Identifying  criminals  is  up  to  each  of  us.  Usually  they  can  be  recognized  by  their  large  cufflinks  and  their  failure  to  stop  eating  when  the  man  sitting  next  to  them  is  hit  by  a  falling  anvil.  'The  best  methods  of  combatting  organized  crime  are:  1.  Telling  the  criminals  you  are  not  at  home.  2.  Calling  the  police  whenever  an  unusual  number  of  men  from  the  Sicil-  ian  Laundry  Company  begin  singing  in  your  foyer.  3.  Wiretapping.  Wiretapping  cannot  be  employed  indiscriminately,  but  its  effectiveness  is  illustrated  by  this  transcript  of  a  con-  versation  between  two  gang  bosses  in  the  New  York  area  whose  phoneshad  been  tapped  by  the  F.B.I.:  AntHOoNY:  Hello?  [REDACTED]?  [REDACTED]:  Hello?  AnxntHoNY:  [REDACTED]?  [REDACTED]:  Hello.  AnxntHoNY:  [REDACTED]?  [REDACTED]:  I  can't  hear  you.  AnxntHoNnYy:  Is  that  you,  [REDACTED]?  I  can't  hear  you.  [REDACTED]:  What?  AntHoNY:  Can  you  hear  me?  [REDACTED]:  Hello?  AnxntHONY:  [REDACTED]?  [REDACTED]:  We  have  a  bad  connection.  AxntHoNYy:  Can  you  hear  me?  [REDACTED]:  Hello?  AntHoNYy:  [REDACTED]?  [REDACTED]:  Hello?  AnxntHoNY:  Operator,  we  have  a  bad  connection.  OrrErator:  Hang  up  and  dial  again,  SIT  [REDACTED]:  Hello?  Because  of  this  evidence,  Anthony  (The  Fish)  Rotunno  and  [REDACTED]  Pan-  zini  were  convicted  and  are  currently  serving  fifteen  years  in  Sing  Sing  for  illegal  possession  of  Bensonhurst."