 THE  ENCLAVE  THE  KIND  AND  QUIET  ?  I  HERE  is  a  kind  of  withdraw-  al,  courteous  but  cabalistic,  one  meets  in  trying  to  talk  with  Quakers  about  their  faith  if  one  is  not  a  member  of  the  Society  of  Friends  and  is  plainly  not  trying  to  become  such.  On  the  other  hand,  opposite  to  the  logic  of  discipline  and  self-control,  there  is  the  dewy-eyed  sentimentality  of  peo-  ple  of  other  Christian  sects  who  think  of  Quakers  as  men  of  infinite  brother-  hood  and  patience  and  understanding  and  good  will  and  everything  basically  to  be  desired  but  left  unattained  in  modern  life,  at  least  by  non-Quakers.  Between  these  two  extremes,  which  are  no  greater  than  those  between  a  Se-  phardic  Jew  from  Lisbon  and  a  band  of  hippie  poets  who  have  served  their  time  in  the  Haight-Ashbury,  there  are  Quakers  like  those  I  grew  up  with,  when  I  was  a  child  in  Whittier,  [REDACTED].  All  children  can  be  cruel,  and  all  children  mimic  their  elders,  and  I  was  teased  indirectly  for  being  a  non-  Quaker  and  directly  for  being  of  for-  eign  descent  by  the  peers  who  walked  amiably  every  morning  to  school  with  me,  sat  with  me  all  day  without  a  sneer  or  snub,  and  then  often  turned  vicious  on  the  way  home.  The  interesting  thing  about  their  almost  ritual  taunt  ings,  which  faded  and  flared  according  to  the  moon  and  the  seasons,  was  that  I  knew  nothing  of  cruelty  and  thought  theirs  was  partof  normal  life.  My     friends,  for  such  they  were,  were  only  saying  mocking  things  they  had  heard  at  home,  from  the  kind,  quiet  lips  of  their  Quaker  parents.  My  father  was  an  intruder  in  the  lit-  tle  town,  not  a  member  of  the  Society  nor  with  recognizable  references,  and  in  a  settlement  founded  by  and  for  its  own  members  he  could  not  last  long.  He  seemed  like  a  respectable  young  man,  and  his  wife,  from  what  one  saw  of  her,  was  well  mannered.  But  she  was  said  to  be  of  Irish  descent,  with  her  foreign  mother  living  right  there  in  the  house  on  Painter  Avenue,.  The  two  women  had  to  be  either  from  the  Prot-  estant  North  or,  even  worse,  from  farther  down  with  the  papists.  Most  Irishwomen  in  [REDACTED],  of  course,  were  cooks,  As  for  my  father,  the  young  fellow  trying  to  run  the  News,  he  bore  a  name-Rex  Kennedy-that  was  Irish  or  Scottish,  and  most  men  of  his  race  and  build,  from  what  the  peace-  able  citizens  of  Whittier  knew,  were  either  policemen  or  rowdy  brawlers.  All  this  surmise,  as  my  parents  set-  tled  firmly  into  the  community,  was  apparently  aired  now  and  then  at  family  tables,  and  the  next  day  I  would  pay  for  it,  as  the  gang  of  little  girls  and  an  occasional  boy  would  tag  behind  me  while  I  walked  toward  home.  In  the  mornings  they  always  stopped  at  our  house,  and  we  walked  and  hopped  to-  gether  through  the  quiet,  sweet-smell- ing  streets,  planted  with  bushes  never  seen  now,  and  tall  handsome  trees  brought  as  seedlings  by  the  courageous,  homesick  pioneers  across  the  Great  Desert.  Mornings  were  nice.  After-  noons  sometimes  were  miserable,  but  I  never  let  on  that  I  would  like  to  cry  or  yell.  On  a  bad  day,  with  classes  over  and  the  Penn  Street  schoolyard  desert-  ed,  I  would  walk  home  alone,  with  my  friends  of  that  morning  tagging  me,  perhaps  twenty  paces  behind,  like  a  pack  of  suddenly  captious,  taunting  dogs.  &quot;What  does  your  big  fat  Irish  moth-  er  do?&quot;  the  litany  might  start.  &quot;My  mother  takes  care  of  us,&quot;  I  would  call  back,  disdaining  to  reply  to  any  of  the  adjectives.  &quot;Oh,  no  she  doesn't!  She's  the  cook.  All  Irishwomen  are  cooks.&quot;  My  mother  stayed  out  of  the  kitchen  as  much  as  possible,  except  for  making  divinity  fudge  perhaps  once  a  year,  or  an  occasional  cake,  like  the  monument  for  Father's  birthday  called  a  Lady  [REDACTED],  or  patting  together  egg  cro-  quettes  for  the  cook  to  fry  in  Lent.  There  was  no  use  explaining  this  to  the  kids,  especially  since  they  kept  their  dis-  tance  and  it  might  sound  foolish  in  a  shout.  So  after  another  half  block,  which  I  paced  as  fast  as  possible  with-  out  seeming  to  run  and  thus  satisfy  them,  somebody  would  yell,  &quot;What  does  your  big  skinny  Irish  father  do?&quot;  Again  I  would  let  the  adjectives  slide  past  me,  and  yell  back  that  he  ran  the  News,  not  bothering  to  explain  that  he  sprang  from  Scottish  border  country,  and  my  daylong,  yearlong  friends  would  shout  with  laughter,  and  howl,  &quot;Oh,  zo  he  doesn't!  He's  acop.  All  Irishmen  are  cops.&quot;  It  seems  strange  to  me  now,  so  twisted  am  I  by  prejudices  and  their  effects,  that  this  sporadic  gibing  never  really  angered  me.  It  did  not  occur  to  me  to  speak  of  it  at  home.  My  friends  plainly  didn't  know  what  they  were  talking  about  and  would  be  all  right  tomorrow.  I  thought  it  was  part  of  being  there,  an  enclave  of  non-  Quakers  in  Quaker  Whittier,  just  as  other  kids  in  other  kinds  of  ghettos  have  the  same  passive  acceptance  ...  until  they  can  leave.  I  knew  that  the  next  day  a  lot  of  those  savages  would  stop  for  me  on  the  sidewalk  in  front  of  my  house,  and  speak  politely  to  Mother  if  she  stood  on  the  porch  steps,  and  that  then  we  would  tag,  discreetly  gambolling,  to  the  school-  yard,  shying  loquat  or  date  seeds  along  the  gutters,  or  green  apricots,  accord-  ing  to  the  seasons,  hopping  puddles  amicably  after  it  had  rained  on  the  lumpy  sidewalks.  It  would  be  ridiculous  " b" to  try  to  prove  anything  at  all  to  them.  I  am  not  sure  what  a  doctor  would  say  about  the  apparent  passivity  on  my  part,  this  lack  of  anger.  The  teasing  was  part  of  life  there,  unimportant  as  such  and  certainly  unworthy  of  my  at-  tention.  I  knew  my  mother  was  not  a  big  fat  cook  and  my  father  was  not  an  Irish  cop,  but  our  private  life  was  so  apart  from  my  friends'  that  it  seemed  pointless  to  try  to  explain  their  mis-  conceptions.  I  never  bothered  to  ask  where  those  children  heard  what  they  sometimes  felt  impelled  to  mouth,  but  it  is  plain  that  what  they  heard  came  from  the  mouths  of  some  of  the  adults  many  non-members  of  the  Friends'  Society  deemed  almost  saintlike.  I  knew  a  lot  of  them  as  I  grew  older.  Some  were  sanctimonious  bastards.  Some  were  truly  gentle  and  fine,  almost  worthy  of  my  parents.  I  was  never  asked  inside  a  Friend's  house  in  the  more  than  forty  years  I  lived  in  Whittier.  When  I  was  a  grown  woman,  occasionally  a  handful  of  them  came  to  ours,  especially  after  my  mother  died  and  my  father  needed  the  company  of  his  familiars,  no  matter  how  fabricated  the  social  excuse:  a  birthday,  an  anniversary  of  the  news-  paper,  something  like  that.  Then  a  few  of  the  people  who  had  long  known  and  respected  him,  and  had  permitted  themselves  to  like  him  as  much  as  they  could  an  outsider,  came  and  nibbled  tit-  bits  and  even  sipped  dry  sherry  with  him,  safe  enough  outside  their  own  austere  purlieus.  But  even  when  I  was  a  little  girl  I  never  stepped  inside  a  Quaker  dwelling.  Instead,  all  the  pack  LJ  bd  came  to  our  house,  freely  and  often.  If  we  were  thirsty,  we  went  by  way  of  the  back  porch  (Don't  tramp  through  the  house  and  wake  Grandmother  ...  or  the  new  baby  ...or  Mother)  for  long,  gasping  slurps  from  a  shared  tumbler  under  the  kitchen  tap.  On  the  way  out,  we  each  took  an  orange  from  the  row  that  always  stood  on  the  ledge  under  the  screened  window,  or  an  apple  or  a  pear  in  season.  IfI  limited  the  party  to  four,  and  saw  to  it  that  everything  was  left  tidy,  I  could  serve  cornflakes  and  milk  on  the  long  piano  bench  in  the  living  room.  (Those  de-  bauches  were  limited  to  young  ladies.)  And  twice  while  we  lived  on  Paint-  er,  and  then  once  soon  after  we  moved  down  to  the  Ranch,  Mother  gracefully  did  something  for  little  people  she  was  literally  incapable  of  doing  for  adults:  she  gave  beautiful,  balanced,  exciting  parties  for  us.  The  first  was  in  honor  of  my  birthday,  and  the  last  for  my  sis-  ter  Anne's,  and  I  forget  what  brought  on  the  one  in  the  middle,  but  they  were  fine  routs,  attended  by  all  our  Episcopalian  Sunday-school  associates  and  many  nice  Quaker  children  we  knew  at  school.  By  now  itis  easy  to  wonder  what  Mother's  motives  were,  if  any.  Perhaps  she  was  saying  flatly  to  the  other  ladies  of  the  town  that  we  lived  in  such-and-such  a  way  and  were  glad  to  share  it?  Certainly  she  pro-  duced  the  only  children's  parties  in  my  own  experience,  and  in  an  uncharacter-  istic  way,  and  if  there  were  other  such  celebrations  going  on  in  Whittier  we  never  knew  of  them.  Rarely,  I  heard  a  mother  &quot;thee-  and-thou&quot;  one  or  another  of  my  friends,  but  in  general  this  leftover  lin-  guistic  trait,  which  had  already  become  a  deliberate  mannerism,  was  not  used,  at  least  in  front  of  non-Quakers,  Of  course,  I  was  familiar  with  it,  being  an  Episcopalian  and  on  close  terms  with  godly  language,  in  which  we  could  be  more  familiar  with  our  Deity  than  our  dogs.  I  liked  it,  and  always  have,  and  wish  that  we  could  use  it  again  in  our  intimacies.  In  Whittier,  the  only  per-  son  who  ever  said  &quot;thee&quot;  to  me  was  a  tall,  good-looking  widow,  highly  re-  spected  because  her  own  mother  had  been  a  minister.  She  was  called  Mrs.  Osmun.  Once,  she  invited  me  to  drive  clear  to  San  Gabriel  with  her  and  a  friend,  in  a  surrey-the  only  one  left  in  town.  I  think  I  was  five.  Mother  let  me  go.  There  was  a  man  with  us,  but  I  do  not  remember  anything  about  him  ex-  cept  that  hetook  care  of  the  horse.  It  was  a  long,  hot  ride,  with  an  occasional  automobile  whipping  past  us.  The  two  ladies  were  swathed  in  dust-colored  clothes  and  veils,  like  those  Mother  wore  in  our  Ford.  Almost  as  often  asI  would  have  liked,  little  boxes  and  bas-  kets  were  pulled  from  under  the  seats  (I  rode  backward,  as  befitted  my  stat-  ure  and  age  and  so  on),  and  we  ate  tepid  but  delicious  dainties  We  forded  a  wide,  shallow  river,  perhaps  the  Rio  Hondo.  Once  in  San  Gabriel,  we  could  only  look  from  the  outside  at  the  old  mission  and  its  outbuildings,  in  spite  of  the  signs  begging  for  visitors,  for  the  place  was  Catholic.  Then  we  turned  around  and  headed  for  home,  and  it  is  interesting  that  when  I  finally  returned  to  San  Gabriel  as  a  free  heathen  I  felt  " b" that I  had  really  been  there  before,  even  so  tentatively.  The  important  thing  about  this  first  visit-somewhat  peculiar  if  one  consid-  ers  what  energy  it  took  to  getfour  peo-  ple  and  a  horse  there  and  then  back  again-is  that  I  was  called  &quot;thee&quot;  and  &quot;thou,&quot;  as  naturally  as  leaves  floating  down  a  little  stream,  by  the  beautiful  old  Mrs.  Osmun.  I  was  a  real  child  to  her  (even  if  the  Episcopalian  Mission  was  not  a  real  church!).  It  made  me  feel  fine.  It  sounded  right,  and  this  had  nothing  to  do  with  either  religion  or  semantics.  Once,  an  older  cousin  of  ours  from  Towa  was  accepted-as  a  paying  lodger,  of  course-into  Mrs.  Osmun's  large,  empty  house.  He  stayed  there  while  he  worked  as  a  reporter  on  the  News,  be-  tween  two  somewhat  more  active  so-  journs  in  Greenwich  Village,  the  mod-  ish  place  for  all  young  men  from  [REDACTED]  to  go.  He  has  told  me  that  he  heard  his  landlady  talking  quietly  on  the  tele-  phone  with  her  sister,  about  some  pro-  posed  purchases  in  [REDACTED].  Mrs.  Osmun  said  firmly,  &quot;Well,  Susan,  thee  can  bee-ee-tee  I  wouldn't  pay  any  such  price  for  a  footstool!&quot;  He  said  it  was  as  if  the  Deity  were  a  not  very  bright  child,  but  as  a  longer  resident  in  the  town  I  believe  that  a  respectable  Quak-  er  lady  simply  did  not  use  loose  terms,  such  words,  straight  out.  Nobody  ever  said  &quot;thee&quot;  to  my  parents,  although  after  a  few  decades  of  the  forty-two  years  we  lived  in  Whittier  some  men  began  to  call  my  father  by  his  first  name,  at  least  in  the  right  surroundings-Chamber  of  Com-  merce  meetings,  Rotary,  the  country  club.  Rex  had  been  given  a  year,  tacitly,  to  decide  that  Whittier  was  not  the right  place  for  him,  but  Quakers  ac-  cept  with  their  deliberate  philosophy  the  belief  that  men  should  live  side  by  side  as  brothers,  whenever  racially  and  professionally  agreeable  to  the  commu-  nity,  and  after  a  considered  and  cool  look  at  my  father  they  allowed  him  to  stay.  I  doubt  whether  he  ever  let  him-  self  be  aware  of  this  tacit  &quot;permission&quot;:  he  chose  to  be  there,  to  run  the  News  and  raise  his  family  there,  and  finally  to  die  there,  without  any  nod  except  from  the  Supreme  Being.  That  is  how  it  was,  for  him.  My  mother,  asocial  both  by  training  and  because  she  was  personally  unsure,  remained  aloof  from  people  after  the  first  few  years  of  being  the  loyal  young  clubwoman  wife  of  the  struggling  new  editor,  but  she  had  quiet  and  lasting  affection  for  one  or  two  of  the  Quaker  ladies,  and  they  for  her,  although  of  course  she  was  never  invited  to  drink  a  cup  of  tea  with  them.  In  fact,  the  nearest  any  ofus  ever  came  to  sharing  " b" food  with  them  was  the  day  she  died,  when  Caroline,  the  banker's  eldest  daughter,  brought  us  a  delicious  apple  pie,  &quot;to  helpa  little,  with  all  the  ar-  rangements  to  make  now,&quot;  as  she  said  sadly.  My  sister  Anne  and  I  often  went  into  the  Friends'  Church  for  missionary  lectures  with  Grandmother  when  we  were  little,  but  I  was  not  invited  to  meeting  until  I  was  almost  fifty  years  old-and  thenby  a  revolutionary  member  of  the  Society  who  was  fight,  ing  to  return  to  the  old  simplicity  and  do  away  with  things  like  vested  choirs  and  processionals  and  such,  which  were  warping  and  bedecking  the  first  pat-  terns  of  worship.  As  my  school  friends  got  to  the  marrying  age,  I  was  invited  to  a  few  weddings  in  thebig  church,     and  true  enough  they  had  a  Romish  flavor,  with  an  unseemly  pomp  that  in  our  own  congregation  would  not  have  surprised  me.  When  I  was  still  young  enough  to  be  forced  to  take  piano  lessons,  my  Quaker  teacher  was  also  the  organist  at  her  church,  and  I  could  never  have  endured  the  privilege  of  practicing  &quot;In  a  Persian  Market&quot;  if  my  family  had  " b"  not  been  given  unwritten  approval  to  employ  her,  admittedly  the  only  &quot;ac-  ceptable&quot;  musician  in  town.  After  we  moved  into  the  country,  Mother  eased  me  out  of  that  situation  with  daring  and  wiliness,  and  put  me  into  the  much  less  skilled  hands  of  our  organist,  but  her  dreams  of  listening  to  me  ripple  through  Chopin  and  Schubert,  as  she  herself  had  learned  to  do,  were  soon  broken  rudely  when  the  Episcopalian  decided  that  I  was  best  left  thudding  through  the  marketplace.  UT  how  can  anyone  talkas  I  do,  saying  mean  things  with  apparent  malice  and  misinterpretation,  about  the  quiet  Quakers,  so  universally  known  to  be  filled  with  humility,  brotherly  love,  and  the  general  vision  of  George  Fox  on  the  hilltop?  It  reminds  me  of  some  friends  of  mine  who  asked  an  exchange  student  from  4a6170616e  to  spend  two  weeks  with  them.  They  knew  a  great  deal  about  his  native  culture.  They  were  highly  sensitive  and  articulate  people,  and  had  gone  far  out  in  Zen  and  allied  questings.  They  had  studied  and  prac-  ticed  and,  of  course,  preached  almost  every  Westernized  version  of  Eastern  thought,  and  with  typical  earnestness  they  preferred  the  more  refined  and     L  esoteric  aspects  of  it,  counting  them  to  be  the  truest.  Their  guest  was  a  solid  good  son  of  a  fisherman,  from  northern  4a6170616e,  and  he  had  forgotten  the  mean-  ing  of  the  word  &quot;hokku,&quot;  if  he  had  ever  heard  it,  and  knew  nothing  about  tea  ceremonies  but  a  surprising  lot  about  computers,  radar,  and  Mad  magazine.  He  liked  to  grow  fruits  as  a  hobby,  kill  bugs  and  rodents  for  a  liv-  ing,  and  scratch  himself.  His  hosts  were  disbelieving,  for  they  were  as  sure  that  all  43616e616461als  are  subtle  and  poetic  art-  ists  as  many  people  are  that  Quakers  are  perforce  deeply  sensitive  and  wise  philosophers.  But  they  came  to  like  him  very  much,  after  their  first  cultural  shock,  and  he  thought  they  were  very  nice,  too,  in  their  own  peculiar  ways.  (He  much  preferred  chocolate  malted  milk  to  the  delicate  tea  they  poured  for  him,  and  peanut-butter  sandwiches  to  the  raw-fish  sushi  they  prepared  la-  boriously  in  the  name  of  ecumenism.  )  In  Whittier,  perhaps  we  non-  Quakers  learned  more  about  brotherly  love  than  was  intended,  and  largely  be-  cause  it  never  entered  into  the  scheme  of  things,  as  such.  We  were  never  hurt  physically.  What  is  more  important,  our  own  culture  or  lack  of  it  was  never  questioned  or  invaded.  It  was  ignored,  S  E  P  T  E  M  B  E  R  5  ,  1  9  7  0  as  long  as  we  behaved  our-  selves.  We,  in  turn,  never  thought  of  trying  in  any  way  to  &quot;understand&quot;  and  participate  in  the  religious  and  social  habits  of  the  peo-  ple  we  lived  with;  we  were  not  of  their  persuasion,  which  in  itself  was  not  ex-  actly  friendly  but  on  the  other  hand  was  not  antago-  nistic.  They,  in  turn,  had  less  than  no  interest  in  our  foreign  goings  on  in  front  of  our  own  altars.  The  townsmen  who  very  gradually  began  to  call  my  father  Rex,  and  even  to  down  a  nip  of  his  Scotch  after  they  had  played  to-  gether  around  the  golf  course  like  good  community  leaders,  were  not  being  Christian,  or  understand-  ing,  or  kindly.  They  simply  liked  him.  He  was  no  more  nor  less  their  brother  than  the  4a6170616eese  fisherman's  son  was  spiritual  sibling  to  my  carnest  culture  lovers.  In  Whittier,  we  all  led  our  own  deliberately  sepa-  rate  lives,  with  mutual  re-  spect.  The  Friends  were  there  first,  and  if  they  scemed  a  little  smug  it  was  probably  because  they  still  felt,  after  a  few  gen-  crations,  like  refugees  from  a  scorned  and  even  persecuted  minority  group-  and  what  can  be  more  holier-than-thou  than  a  persecuted  minority?  They  had  been  brave  in  their  flight,  and  strong  and  canny  in  their  chosen  haven.  There  were  many  good,  kind,  gen-  crous  (well,  I  do  not  feel  sure  about  that  loosely  used  word,  for  Rex  always  said  it  was  like  pulling  teeth  to  get  money  for  some  of  his  projects)  ...  There  were  many  good,  kind  people  in  the  town,  I  know,  as  well  as  a  few  mean,  cruel  ones,  and  at  one  time  they  had  the  biggest  and  richest  meeting-  house  in  the  Quaker  world.  I  went  there  with  Grandmother  to  the  free  missionary  shows.  Once,  there  were  Swiss  bell  ringers,  for  some  reason,  along  with  a  preacher  from  [REDACTED]  who  illustrated  unforgettably  the  phrase  &quot;My  cup  runneth  over.&quot;  He  poured  many  too  many  grains  of  wheat  into  a  basket  instead  of  agoblet,  which  I  thought  would  havebeen  more  fitting,  but  it  was  a  good  act  anyway,  and  no-  body  had  to  bow  his  head  in  prayer,  which  my  grandmother  approved.  (It  stuck  in  her  throat  to  think  of  my  mother,  her  own  daughter  Edith,  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  kneeling  and  perhaps  even  genuflecting  in  the  local  outpost  of  Anglican  popery  and  second-hand  mouthings  of  the  Scarlet  Woman  of  Rome.)  Grand-  mother  would  never  have  made  a  good  Quaker,  being  too  belligerent  of  nature,  but  she  appreciated  and  enjoyed  what  they  offered  her  as  a  decent  Christian  woman  and  made  no  attempt  to  ques-  tion  them,  especially  since  they  would  not  think  of  doing  so  to  her.  Once  more,  brotherly  love  may  have  hung  invisibly  in  the  air  of  the  enormous  wooden  hall,  as  the  missionary  roared  and  capered,  and  the  stolid  musicians  tinkled  their  bells,  and  we  sucked  hungrily  at  the  free  orange  of  enter-  tainment.  I  sometimes  wondered  why  my  school  friends-the  ones  in  whose  meet-  inghouse  I  sat  so  happily  for  these  shows-were  never  there.  They  went  to  bed  correctly,  at  the  proper  time,  while  I  caroused.  Dramatic  perform-  ances  were  not  for  small  children,  and  were  generally  frowned  upon  in  those  days  by  their  parents.  Perhaps  they  were  offered  to  us,  the  &quot;others,&quot;  a  little  as  Cacsar  gave  circuses  to  the  potentially  troublesome  Romans,  to  soothe  them.  Or  perhaps  they  were  a  gesture  of  ecumenism,  as  my  cultured  scholars  of  the  [REDACTED]  offered  rare  tea  and  rice  sandwiches  to  the  4a6170616eese  visitor.  Whatever  the  motive,  my  introduction  to  high  Camp  entertainment  began  in  the  fine  old  wooden  church,  and  no  amount  of  later  compromise,  with  vest-  ed  choirs  leading  the  category,  can  erase  the  feeling  of  friendship  and  excitement  it  gave  me  when  I  was  a  child.  My  music  teacher  played  there.  My  friends  went  there  to  Sunday  school.  People  rang  bells  and  even  water  glasses  right  up  there  in  front,  the  place  where  in  my  own  church  we  were  never  allowed  to  set  foot  or  even  to  kneel  until  after  confirmation.  Later  in  my  life,  there  would  be  splashy  Quaker  weddings,  and  the  church  would  be  rebuilt,  no  longer  the  biggest  Friends'  meetinghouse  in  the  world  but  very  luxurious  and  even  ele-  gant-and  rich,  of  course.  (It  was  then  that  a  few  rebels  split  off  and  went  quietly  and  often  mutely  toa  room  in  Whittier  College,  where  they  sat  together  until  the  Spirit  either  moved  them  or  did  not,  and  then  as  silently  went  home  again.  They  had  no  need  for  organists,  hymns,  or  ritual,  and,  with  the  smug  and  even  sancti-  monious  attitude  of  all  religious  refu-  gees,  they  knew  themselves  to  be  One  with  their  fathers.)  No  bugler  blows  &quot;Joy  to  the  World&quot;  anymore,  to  the  four  corners  of  the  town  and  perhaps  the  planet.  But  those  were  fine  Christmas  mornings,  thanks  to  the  Quakers  who  let  us  live  in  their  town  in  peace.  Exactly  at  seven,  from  the  steeple  of  the  Friends'  meet-  inghouse,  the  triumphant  blast  would  come  to  us,  fainter  to  the  north  and  west  and  south,  and  then  right  into  our  upstairs  sleeping  porch,  as  little  Anne  and  I  lay  close  to  Father  in  the  big  bed,  quivering  happily.  Soon  Mother  would  be  home  from  singing  at  early  service.  After  breakfast  there  would  be  the  Tree,  even  though  Grandmother  disliked  it  as  a  pagan  custom,  and  then  we  would  goup  and  down  the  side-  walks  of  Painter  Avenue,  and  compare  dolls  and  tricycles  and  wagons  with  our  Quaker  peers.  And  all  this  is  why  I  think  more  should  be  said  about  people  who  are  either  birthright  or  new  members  of  the  Society  of  Friends.  They  occupy  an  al-  most  mystical  position  in  many  people's  minds  at  this  point  in  our  cosmic  con-  fusion,  and  too  often  their  image  is  blurred  by  sentimentality  and  an  opti-  mistic  lack  of  realism.  Their  tenets  remain  noble.  Their  worldly  compro-  mises  are,  like  all  other  such  arrange-  /T/____  41  ments,  less  admirable.  They  are  ma-  ligned  by  their  own  position  in  the  hopeful  wishes  of  people  who  have  per-  haps  been  less  brave  than  they,  both  now  and  in  the  past.  They  have  always  been  good  fighters,  although  they  do  not  believe  in  physical  combat.  The  white  children  I  knew  when  I  was  little  had  no  need  to  be  anything  but  well  fed  and  secure,  in  the  best  houses  in  a  town  where  they  belonged  to  its  best  families-the  ones  with  the  settlers'  names:  Hadley,  Bailey,  New-  lin,  Comstock,  Maple.  Their  ancestors,  buried  in  the  town  cemetery  or  along  the  routes  to  [REDACTED],  had  given  up  homes  just  as  solid,  positions  just  as  se-  cure,  to  live  their  own  lives  as  they  saw  fit,  in  a  place  where  they  could  practice  their  beliefs  unscorned.  The  settlement  they  named  for  their  556e6974656420537461746573n  poet  would  be  theirs,  and  theirs  it  was  when  we  came  to  it.  HAT  settlement  still  remains  a  firm  core  in  the  sprawling  suburb  of  [REDACTED]  that  was  once  Whittier,  and  the  part  where  we  lived  is  now  called  the  Old  Town,  by  newcomers  of  all  faiths  and  races.  It  is,  in  its  own  sedate,  tree-shaded  fashion,  just  as  much  a  ghetto  as  was  Jintown  down  on  the  river,  where  most  of  the  Mexi-  cans  had  to  live  when  I  was  little.  The  comfortable  old  houses  like  ours  have  largely  been  converted  into  small  apart-       " b" &quot;  ments  or  doctors'  offices.  And  all  around  it,  in  elegant  suburbs,  and  hous-  ing  developments  that  range  from  solid  to  shoddy,  and  high-rise  buildings,  live  nearly  two  hundred  thousand  people.  Most  of  them  work  in  [REDACTED]  of-  fices  or  the  several  great  war  industries.  Freeways  make  escape  quick  and  easy,  and  I  am  told  that  many  people  still  leave  town,  as  did  my  own  parents,  for  their  frolickings.  Whittier  College,  which  had  barely  enough  young  ladies  enrolled  in  it  to  dance  around  the  [REDACTED]  when  I  first  set  foot  on  its  campus  in  1913  to  watch  the  seemly  caperings  (another  free  show!),  was  definitely  worried  about  overcrowding  when  I  studied  there  for  one  semester  in  1928  and  almost  four  hundred  students  bulged  out  of  the  few  buildings  on  its  neat  campus.  By  now  it  is,  in  its  own  contained  way,  as  sprawl-  ing  as  the  town,  with  more  than  two  thousand  young  people  seething-dis-  creetly,  so  far-at  its  consistent  con-  servatism.  It  even  has  an  enrollment  of  fifty  or  so  black  students,  which  one  report  says  is  nearly  the  entire  Negro  community  ofthe  town.  Arithmetically,  that  is  surprising,  to  put  it  in  a  correctly  gentle  and  quict  way.  It  seems  to  come  out  as  a  per-  centage  of  one-fortieth  of  the  college  student  body,  and  around  one  four-  thousandth  of  the  town's  head  count.  Surely  my  figures  cannot  be  right,  as  my  fourth-grade  teacher  at  Penn  Street  School  would  agree  from  her  grave  if  she  could.  I  do  know,  though,  that  we  harbored  fora  time,  too  short,  the  only  Negro  in  Whittier,  big  Cynthia,  who  finally  left  us  with  mutual  hot  tears  be-  cause  she  was  lonely,  except  for  us.  She  was,  in  fact,  dying,  pining,  except  for  us.  She  was  not  welcome  anywhere,  even  in  the  stores.  Especially,  there  was  no  place  open  for  her  to  worship.  The  people  did  not  seem  to  see  her.  (Sev-  eral  years  later,  two  veryugly  things  happened  to  a  black  couple  who  lived  with  us  at  the  Ranch  outside  of  town,  but  they  do  not  belong  here,  and  few  people  would  care  to  believe  them  anyway,  caught  as  they  are  in  the  Syndrome  of  Saintliness,  where  all  members  of  the  Friends'  Society  are  concerned.)  Most  of  the  people  I  grew  up  with  in  Whittier  are  gone,  either  up  or  down.  If  some  of  them  still  live,  they  may  have  forgotten  me,  as  I  have  many  of  them.  More  clearly  do  I  remember  their  composed  remote  mothers,  always  seen  from  a  polite  distance,  and  their  quiet  fathers,  the  men  who  looked  over  my  own  sire  for  several  years  and  then  almost  smiled  at  him,  as  they  met  in  passing  on  the  corner  of  Greenleaf  and  [REDACTED].  They  went  to  a  dif-  ferent  church,  and  never  bothered  to  doubt  why.  They  ate  and  even  dressed  differently,  because  of  their  condition-  ings.  They  recognized  good  souls  and  bad,  mostly  within  their  own  walls.  It  is  probable  that  they  taught  all  of  us  more  about  brotherly  love  than  they  realized. "