    THE  DOCTOR'S  DOCTORS  driac  with  an  urge  to  communicate  triggers  off  a  massive  piece  of  liter-  ary  research.  But  here  was  this  total  stranger,  a  large  man  with  a  booming  voice  and  the  flush  of  apparent  excel-  lent  health  on  his  cheeks,  sitting  oppo-  site  me  in  a  railway  dining  car  and  going  onand  on  about  his  symptoms--  a  morning  vertigo,  a  discomfort  in  the  hip  that  shot  simultaneous  sympathetic  pains  into  his  heel  and  shoulder  blades,  a  tintinnabulation  in  his  left  ear,  an  ex-  cruciating  tightening  of  the  scalp  under  stress-and  how  this  doctor  advised  that  and  that  doctor  recommended  the  other,  and  how  little  confidence  he  had  in  cortisone  or  the  sulphonamides,  though  some  third  polysyllabic  prepara-  tion  (which  up  to  that  time  I  had  al-  ways  supposed  to  be  made  up  into  drip-  dry  shirts,  with  ten  per  cent  cotton  added)  had  for  a  brief  period  given  re-  lief,  and  there  came  into  my  head,  as  I  pushed  my  chicken  vol-au-vent  about  with  decreasing  enthusiasm,  the  notion  that  somewhere  I  had  heard  or  read  of  an  even  more  determined  valetudinari-  an,  a  champion  consultor  of  consultants  beside  whom  this  feeble  complainant  was  no  better  than  an  apprentice.  Who  was  it?  The  thing  nagged  at  me  all  the  way  home.  It  turned  out,  of  course,  to  be  Dr.  Johnson.  No  one  can  so  much  as  glance  through  Boswell's  &quot;Life&quot;  without  becoming  aware  that  the  Doctor's  health  crops  up  pretty  frequently  in  his  letters,  and  that  the  opinion  of  more  than  one  medical  man  was  eagerly  sought.  But  to  get  the  full  flavor  of  his  hypochondria,  properly  to  grasp  the  complexity  of  his  medical  relationships,  one  has  to  reread  the  volumes  with  no  other  object  or  interest  in  mind;  there  is  a  need  to  annotate,  to  collate,  to  make  long,  enthralling  lists  of  drugs  and  dates  and  doctors'  names.  All  this  I  did,  and  I  may  now  perhaps  claim  to  be  among  the  half-dozen  leading  au-  thorities  on  Johnson's  medical  circle.  But  there  remains  a  deep  dissatisfaction.  On  the  Doctor's  view  of  his  doctors  one  is  amply  informed;  what  one  now  wants,  and  wants  badly,  are  the  doc-  tors'  views  of  the  Doctor.  Where  are  the  memoirs  of  Dr.  Heb-  erden?  Where  are  those  of  Dr.  Brock-  lesby?  Where,  for  that  matter,  are  the  personal  recollections  or  casebooks  of  Drs.  Pepys,  Mudge,  [REDACTED],  Cullen,  Hope,  Munro,  James,  [REDACTED],  But-  ter,  and  Lawrence?  Anybody  who  has  an  old  coffer  or  ironbound  chest  IT  is  not  every  day  that  a  hypochon-       farce&quot;  stowed  away  in  the  attic  of  his  eigh-  teenth-century  house  would  oblige  me  by  leafing  through  the  contents.  All  thesepotential  biographers  were  con-  sulted  by  Dr.  Johnson.  There  may  be  others.  The  closest  study  of  Boswell  leaves  one  a  little  uncertain,  even  after  all  the  &quot;Drs.&quot;  who  turn  out  to  be  sci-  entists,  divines,  or  mere  littérateurs  have  been  eliminated,  about  the  precise  professional  relationship  with  Johnson  of  some  dozen  or  more  medical  men  who  crossed  his  path.  On  the  surgical  side,  Mr.  Pott  and  Mr.  Cruikshank  were  definitely  called  in.  So  was  Sir  Alexander  Dick,  the  rhubarb  man.  For  the  rest,  it  is  reasonable  to  assume  that  if  Dr.  Johnson  was  left  alone  for  five  minutes  with  a  qualified  practitioner,  he  consulted  him.  He  was  never  a  well  man,  suffering  at  various  times  from  a  formidable  bur-  den  of  &quot;importunate  and  oppressive  dis-  orders,&quot;  and  in  his  search  for  health  he  liked  to  cast  his  net  wide.  Johnson,  with  his  curious  mind  and  insatiable  thirst  for  knowledge,  was  unlikely  to  be  satisfied  witha  second  opinion;  he  preferred  a  ninth  or  tenth,  and  he  did  not  greatly  care  how  much  trouble  he  took  or  gave  to  get  it.  &quot;Ask  your  physicians  about  my  case,&quot;  he  wrote  to  Boswell  (then  in  [REDACTED])  early  in  1784,  &quot;and  desire  Sir  Alexander  Dick  to  write  me  his  opinion.&quot;  Boswell  obediently  wrote  to  Sir  Alexander,  a&quot;very  amiable  baronet&quot;  in  his  eighty-first  year,  and  to  Dr.  [REDACTED]  (who  &quot;had  the  advantage  of  having  passed  through  the  gra-  dations  of  surgery  andpharmacy&quot;),  with  results  made  clear  in  Johnson's  letter  to  Boswell  of  March  2nd:  Dr.  [REDACTED]  has  sent  me  an  excellent  consilium  medicum,  all  solid  practical  ex-  perimental  knowledge.  I  am  at  present,  in  the  opinion  of  my  physicians  (Dr.  Heber-  den  and  Dr.  Brocklesby),  as  well  as  my  own,  going  on  very  hopefully.  I  have  just  begun  to  take  vinegar  of  squills....  Return  Sir  Alexander  Dick  my  sincere  thanks  for  his  kind  letter;  and  bring  with  you  the  rhubarb  which  he  so  tenderly  of-  fers  me.  On  March  7th,  Boswell  also  applied  to  Drs.  Cullen,  Hope,  and  Munro,  em-  inent  physicians  of  the  celebrated  school  of  medicine  at  Edinburgh,  giving  them  an  account  of  Johnson's  symptoms,  noting  that  he  was  taking  laudanum,  syrup  of  poppies,  and  vinegar  of  squills,  and  adding  that  &quot;Dr.  Brocklesby  trusts  a  good  deal  to  the  return  of  mild  weather.&quot;  Drs.  Cullen  and  Munro  wrote  their  opinions  and  prescriptions  to  Boswell,  for  onward  transmission;  Dr.  Hope  (with  a  perhaps  more  mod-  ern  feeling  for  etiquette)  corresponded  directly  with  Dr.  Brocklesby.  The  pa-  tient  now  enjoyed  the  simultaneous  advice  and  medicaments  of  Drs.  Heb-  erden,  Brocklesby,  [REDACTED],  Hope,  Cul-  len,  and  Munro,  and  was  in  expecta-  tion  of  rhubarb  from  Sir  Alexander.  It  is  inconceivable  that  none  of  these  men  should  have  taken  the  trouble  to  jot  down  some  fairly  frank  and,  I  should  guess,  not  altogetherfavorable  notes  about  Johnson.  The  medical  pro-  fession  has  never  been  easily  reconciled  to  a  patient  so  lacking  in  confidence  in  any  one  adviser  as  to  prefer  the  major-  ity  verdict  of  about  a  dozen.  Johnson  broke  all  the  canons,  not  scrupling  even  to  analyze  his  doctors'  prescriptions.  &quot;I  never  thought  well  of  Dr.  James's  compounded  medicines,&quot;  he  wrote  to  Dr.  Brocklesby  in  August  of  1784.  &quot;His  ingredients  appear  to  me  some-  times  inefficacious  and  trifling,  and  sometimes  heterogeneous  and  destruc-  tive  of  each  other.  This  prescription  exhibits  a  composition  of  about  three  hundred  and  thirty  grains,  in  which  there  are  four  grains  of  emetick  tartar  and  six  drops  of  thebaic  tincture.  He  that  writes  thus  surelywrites  for  show.&quot;  Here  is  a  bold  enough  way  to  dismiss  a  prescription  which,  one  must  assume,  had  just  been  recommended  by  Brocklesby.  And  Johnson  has  more  to  add.  &quot;The  basis  of  his  medicine,&quot;  he  goes  on,  &quot;is  the  gum  ammoniacum,  which  dear  Dr.  Lawrence  used  to  give,  but  of  which  I  never  saw  any  effect.  We  will,  if  you  please,  let  this  medicine  alone.  The  squills  have  every  suffrage,  and  in  the  squills  we  will  rest  for  the  present.&quot;  Dr.  James  himself  had  died  in  1776  and  was  no  longer  able  to  defend  him-  self,  but  a  page  or  two  of  reflections  from  Dr.  Brocklesby  about  that  letter  should  make  good  reading.  Dear  Dr.  Lawrence's  memoirs  must  also  be  en-  ergetically  sought.  Johnson  gave  him  a  bustard  in  1759,  and  one  would  like  to  know  what  he  thought  about  that.  Even  more  interesting  would  be  his  observations  in  August  of  1782,  when  Lawrence  was  unwell  and  Johnson  promptly  attempted  to  reverse  the  old  relationship  by  writing  to  one  of  the  doctor's  daughters,  &quot;I  should  not  de-  spair  of  helping  the  swelled  hand  by  clectricity,  if  it  were  frequently  and  diligently  supplied.&quot;  How  did  one  sup-  ply  electricity  diligently  in  the  pre-  Faraday  era  of  the  seventeen-eighties?  It  was  about  1773,  so  a  history  of  phys-  ical  science  tells  me,  that  &quot;physicists  be-  came  interested  in  the  shocks  produced  by  the  so-called  electric  fishes,  the  Tor pedo  and  the  Gymnotus.&quot;  And  of  course  Franklin,  some  twenty  years  earlier,  had  painfully  succeeded  in  bringing  down  lightning  from  a  kite  to  a  key  held  in  his  hand.  But  we  have  no  evi-  dence  that  Johnson  tenderly  offered  his  old  friend  an  electric  fish  or  even  an-  other  bustard.  &quot;We  will,  if  you  please,&quot;  one  seems  to  see  Dr.  Lawrence  noting  angrily  in  his  diary  with  his  swelled  hand,  &quot;let  electricity  alone.&quot;  [REDACTED].  PEpys,  whose  very  name  should  be  a  stimulus  to  research,  is  a  somewhat  shadowy  figure.  &quot;I  have  been  accustomed  to  bleed  frequently  for  an  asthmatic  complaint;  but  have  foreborne  for  some  time  by  Dr.  Pepys  s  persuasion.  ...&quot;  So  wrote  Johnson  in  June  of  1783,  and  it  is  just  possible  to  deduce  from  this  reference,  and  from  the  absence  of  any  further  mention  of  Pepys's  name  by  Boswell,  that  his  bold  interference  was  resented  by  his  innu-  merable  colleagues  and  that  he  was  squeezed  out  by  some  kind  of  Harley  Street  cabal.  If  so,  his  shorthand  notes  about  the  affair  deserve  to  be  brought  to  light.  But  not  too  much  should  be  made  of  the  mere  absence  of  a  name.  Even  so  painstaking  a  biographer  as  Boswell  cannot  be  expected  to  mention  all  the  physicians  all  of  the  time.  Are  we  to  suppose,  on  these  negative  grounds,  that  Dr.  Mudge  of  Plymouth,  to  whom  Johnson  was  writing  regularly  for  ad-  vice  in  the  autumn  of  1783  about  a  complaint  for  which  he  was  being  at-  tended  by  Messrs.  Pott  and  Cruik-  shank,  was  thereafter  barred  from  the  magic  circle?  And  what  of  Drs.  Butter  and  [REDACTED]?  Will  anyone  argue  that  these  old  friends  and  consultants  were  excluded  from  the  bedside  in  that  crowded  March  of  1784,  simply  be-  cause  their  names  do  not  happen  to  crop  up  at  that  time?  It  won't  do.  Both,  we  know,  were  in  attendance  on  Johnson  up  to  the  day  of  his  death  in  December  ofthat  year.  On  all  the  evi-  dence  we  have,  the  only  safe  assump-  tion  to  work  on  is  once  the  Doctor's  doctor  always  the  Doctor's  doctor.  I  do  not  press  the  claims  of  Mr.  Ed-  mund  Hector,  surgeon,  orof  Dr.  Wall  of  Oxford,  being  unable  to  trace  any  hint  that  Johnson  ever  consulted  either  of  these  close  friends  on  medical  mat-  ters.  Nor  have  I  any  high  hopes  of  Dr.  Swinfen  of  Lichfield,  into  whose  god-  fatherly  hands  the  stripling  Johnson  }*  placed  a  confidential  account  of  his  hy-  pochondriac  condition,  written  in  Lat-  in,  about  the  year  1729.  I  regard  him  as  extremely  unlikely  to  be  still  in  consultation  in  1784.  He  had  mortally  of-  fended  his  godson  by  showing  the  ele-  gant  composition  to  the  neighbors,  and  would  anyway  be  dead  by  this  time-  as  dead  as  Queen  Anne,  whom  John-  son  also  consulted,  in  his  thirtieth  month,  for  scrofula,  the  King's  Evil,  which  was  supposed  to  be  curable  by  a  touch  from  the  reigning  monarch.  We  can  get  along  without  these  fringe  ad-  visers.  What  hardly  seems  to  be  in  doubt  is  that  by  1784  Johnson  was  be-  ing  simultancously  advised,  treated,  prescribed  for,  and/  or  attended  by  Drs.  Heberden,  Brocklesby,  Pepys,  Mudge,  [REDACTED],  Cullen,  Hope,  Munro,  War-  ren,  and  Butter,  with  some  surgical  assistance  from  Messrs.  Pott  and  Cruik-  shank.  And  you  may  add  Sir  Alexan-  der  Dick.  Here,  surely,  is  a  potentially  seething  pot  of  JLZLIOUSY  and  bitterness  and  mutual  recrimination-of  hetero-  geneous,  as  Johnson  would  put  it,  and  mutually  destructive  ingredients.  Here  is  the  very  stuff  of  literature.  There  is  no  reason  to  suppose  that  any  of  this  jostling  crew  ever  got  a  penny  for  his  trouble.  Boswell  express-  ly  states  that  &quot;the  eminent  physicians  and  surgeons  in  [REDACTED]  ..  .  kindly  and  generously  attended  him  without  ac-  cepting  fees,&quot;  and  one  can  hardly  be-  lieve  that  more  far-flung  consultants,  like  Mudge  of  Plymouth  or  the  Edin-  burgh  coterie,  would  have  had  much  luck  with  a  demand  for  guineas.  It  is  true  that  Heberden,  Brocklesby,  But-  ter,  and  Cruikshank  were  each  left  a  book  of  their  choice  in  Johnson's  will,  and  Lawrence  had  his  bustard.  Never-  theless,  it  appears  to  me  that  the  memoirs  of  all  these  men,  if  only  they  can  be  found,  will  not  lackedge.  It  will  be  my  pleasure,  when  the  priceless  manuscripts  havebeen  dusted  off  and  deciphered  and  issued  in  a  doz-  en  heavily  annotated  volumes  by  some  great  American  foundation,  to  recom-  mend  them,  should  I  chance  to  run  across  him  again,  to  my  florid  acquaint  ance  in  the  train-though  whether  they  would  serve  him  as  a  cure,  ora  justification,  orsimply  send  him  off  in  search  of  vinegar  of  squills  is  hard  to  say.  One  would  like  a  second  opinion  about  that.  