  MUSEUM  (Soon  To  Br  a  Major  Motion  Pretur\xc2\xae)  AY  after  day  during  that  fateful  spring,  the  crowds  thronging  the  Acme  Art  Museum  grew  larger  and  more  culturally  avid.  They  choked  the  paintings  galleries,  lined  up  twelve  deep  to  view  the  cafe  t  eria,  and  even  disrupted  the  habitual  hush  of  the  Greek  and  Roma  n  Wing,  where  Jarvis  Cope  and  Ir  mgaard  Frimgs  used  to  meet  in  happier  time  s  behind  the  red-figured  amphorae.  On  Wednesday,  April  1s  t,  the  atte  ndance  reached  cri  sis  proportions.  At  ten  minutes  past  eleven  that  morning,  the  director's  office  was  informed  that  Gallery  N  ine  (Rem-  brandt  and  Hal  s)  was  totally  blocked,  the  en  trances  so  tight  ly  jammed  that  no  one  c  ould  move  in  or  out.  Groans  of  terminal  art  appreciation  could  be  heard  half  a  mile  away  in  Gallery  Thir  t  y-On  e,  where  a  band  of  insurrec-  t  ionist  art  students  had  barricaded  the  door  and  were  threatening  violence  to  Titian's  price  le  ss  &quot;Venus  and  the  T  uba  Player&quot;  unless  their  demands  were  met  at  once.  Jarvis  Cope,  the  di  rec-  tor,  was  trying  to  remember  whether  this  was  the  same  Titian  that  Sir  Clark  Kent,  in  a  closely  reasoned  treatise  in  last  month's  Kunsthistorisches  Lexi-  con,  had  reattributed  to  Landseer  when  Chief  Attendant  Hawks  telepho  ne  d  to  say  he  had  received  word  that  a  bomb  was  set  to  go  of  f  somewhere  in  the  museum  that  afternoon.  Cope  hung  up,  sighed,  and  replaced  his  finely  sculp-  tured  head  in  Irmgaard  Frimgs'  sen-  sitive  lap.  It  was  going  to  be  a  long  day.  A  tall,  rangy  medievalist  with  com-  manding  eyebrows  and  tufted  side-  burns  fram'ng  a  pair  of  virile  ears,  Jarvis  Cope  had  a  lways  exuded  the  kind  of  dynamic  self-con-  fidence  that  kept  curators  and  oth  er  sp  oilspor  ts  on  their  toes.  L  ately  ,  though,  hi  s  c  onfidence  had  been  a  pose.  Never  before  in  Cope's  seven  years  as  directo  r  of  the  Acme  had  so  many  crises  chosen  the  same  moment  to  erupt.  This  nasty  business  of  the  curators'  revolt,  for  example.  C  ope  knew  who  was  behind  it,  and  the  fact  that  Karl  Friedrich  von  [REDACTED],  the  Curator  of  Oriental  Art,  happened  also  to  be  Cope's  brother-in-law  didn't  make  things  any  easier.  Was  Ba-  den-Baden  aware  of  the  rip-  ening  intimacy  between  Cope  and  Irmgaard?  In  any  case,  the  two  men  had  detested  one  another  for  years-ever  since  the  loss  of  the  Dalai  Lama,  which  [REDACTED]  blamed  unf  airly  on  his  brother-in-law's  forge  t  fuln  e  ss-and  it  was  no  secret  t  hat  [REDACTED]  was  out  to  replace  Cope  as  director.  At  yes-  terday's  curatorial  meeting,  he  had  launched  his  latest  c  ampai  g  n-a  res  olu-  ti  on,  signed  by  seven  other  curators  ,  providing  that  t  he  museum  be  closed  to  the  general  public  six  d  ays  a  week.  Cope,  a  well-known  proponent  of  lumpen  aesthetics  ,  had  met  the  chal-  lenge  with  cool  authority  and  an  apt  quotation  from  Andr\xc3\xa9  M  alraux.  God  only  knew  what  Bade  n-Baden's  next  move  might  be,  though;  all  morning,  there  had  come  from  the  Ori  ental  gal-  l  eries  the  sound  of  shattering  hard-paste  porcelain.  Meanwhile,  a  far  more  serious  crisis  h  ad  arisen  on  the  bo  ard  of  trustees.  The  l  ate  Harry  (Punks)  Newberry  was  re-  ported  to  have  bequeathed  his  collect  ion  of  champlev\xc3\xa9-enamel  mustard  spread-  ers  to  the  Community  Arts  Center  in  Wounded  Knee,  [REDACTED].  S  evera  l  trustees  were  shocked  beyond  measure  by  the  loss  of  this  unique  prize,  and  P.  E  nderby  Trevelyan,  the  president,  would  doubtless  have  some  pointed  questions  to  ask  at  the  board  meeting  this  a  fternoon.  Trevelyan  had  a  weak-  ness  for  pointed  questions.  He  also  had  a  weakness  for  Cope's  wife,  Romily,  which  complicated  matters  further.  Cope  knew  t  hat  Trevelyan  and  Romily  were  in  the  habit  of  meeting  three  afternoons  a  week  in  the  Palacio  Iturbide  Bedchamber,  one  of  several  perio  d  rooms  c  losed  off  i  ndefinitely  b  e-  cause  of  the  velvet-r  ope  shortage.  If     dULY  18  ,  1970  only  Rom  ily  were  not  so  ph  legmatic,  Cope  thought,  she  would  divorce  him  and  marry  Trevelyan  .  How  pleasa  nt  it  would  be  to  exchange  Romily's  some-  what  pre-C  olu  mbian  contours  for  Irm-  gaard's  r  ococo  delights.  Musing  th  us,  Cop  e  doze  d  .  The  te  lepho  ne  shattered  his  reverie.  It  was  Hawks  again,  reporting  a  second  war  ning  from  the  museum  bomber.  T  he  device,  he  had  said,  would  go  off  at  four  o'clock.  It  was  now  ten  past  three.  The  police  were  searching  behind  all  potted  ferns  and  inside  open  sarcoph-  agi.  &quot;What  about  those  art  students?&quot;  Cop  e  inquired,  yawning  gracefully.  &quot;They're  still  waiting  for  you  to  an-  s  wer  the  ir  ultimatum,&quot;  Hawks  said.  &quot;Oh,  yes.  What  was  it  again?&quot;  &quot;Full  amne  sty,  a  sp  eci  al  wing  for  N  avajo  beadwork,  and  the  immedi  ate  dispersal  of  all  paintings  dat  ed  before  1960.  Or  else  they  trash  the  Titian.&quot;  &quot;We'll  have  to  go  along,&quot;  Cope  said  gloomily.  &quot;Titian  is  well  liked.&quot;  Hawks'  sil  ence  indica  ted  disap  pro  val.  &quot;And  if  they  don't  fi  nd  the  bomb  I  suppose  we  ought  to  clear  the  museum,  or  something.&quot;  &quot;Can't  do  that,  [REDACTED];  Hawks  replied  crisply.  &quot;Gal  lery  N  ine  is  s  till  bl  ocked  tight  as  a  tick.&quot;  Cope  mu  ttered  a  well-turned  oath.  &quot;Have  you  tried  greas  i  ng  the  door-  jambs?&quot;  h  e  sa  id.  &quot;Or  turning  the  air-  conditioning  up  all  the  way?  If  the  people  get  c  hilled  ,  they  might  sh  rink  a  little  .  &quot;  &quot;Good  thinking,  sir!  We'll  both.&quot;  He  hung  up  ener  getic  ally  .  Feeling  somewhat  gratifi  ed  -may-  be  th  e  old  dynamism  was  there  after  all-Cope  disengaged  his  head  from  Irmgaard's  lap  and  sat  uprigh  t  .  He  drummed  on  the  top  of  his  desk,  cight  capable  finge  r  s  and  two  manly  t  humbs  working  in  concert.  try  ETHEREDGE  Prover,  the  Curator  o  f  Wickerware,  was  drafting  a  letter  of  resig-  nation.  The  quill  pen  moved  over  the  vellum,  crossing  out  a  word  here  and  there  and  occasionally  splattering  ink  on  the  neat  pile  of  cadmium-  blue  capsules  at  Plover's  left  elbow.  &quot;Dear  Jarvis,&quot;  he  had  writt  en,  &quot;It's  hard  to  say  this  after  twenty-seven  years  with  the  museum,  but  I  really  have  no  choice....&quot;  He  hoped  that  Cope  would  somehow  understand  what  he  meant  about  having  no  choice.  The  truth  was  that  " b" [REDACTED]  had  ferreted  out  his  guilty  secret-the  fatefully  warm  after-  noon  in  the  library  ten  years  ago  when  Plover,  while  attempting  to  trace  the  origins  of  arare  wicker  buskin,  had  carelessly  allowed  his  melting  Mr.  Goodbar  to  impregnate  a  Michelangelo  red-chalk  study  for  the  Stygian  Sibyl.  The  large  ochre  stain  had  been  attrib-  uted  to  various  natural  causes  until  [REDACTED],  whose  expertise  knew  no  bounds,  applied  chemical  and  infra-  red  tests  and  began  asking  questions.  Now  poor  Plover  was  at  the  mercy  of  the  inscrutable  Orientalist.  He  was  go-  ing  to  write  afresh  draft  of  his  resigna-  tion.  Then  he  was  going  to  swallow  all  twenty-seven  capsules,  one  for  each  year  of  his  museum  service,  and  wait  for  eternal  sleep  to  overtake  him  in  his  tiny  basement  office,  in  his  beloved  wicker  chair.  How  apt,  he  reflected,  to  go  out  just  at  closing  time.  OCPU  VALLETTI,  the  leader  of  the  insurrectionary  art  students,  chewed  furiously  at  his  minimal  mus-  tache.  Nothing  had  gone  the  way  he  had  planned  it.  Not  until  after  he  and  of  marijuana,  or  male  chauvinism?&quot;  his  two  accomplices  (Bryn  Mawr  hot-  heads  both)  had  barricaded  themselves  in  Gallery  Thirty-One  and  shouted  their  ultimatum  through  the  door  did  they  notice  the  large  blank  space  on  the  wall  where  &quot;Venus  and  the  Tuba  Player&quot;  usually  hung,  or  the  small  white  card  there  saying,  &quot;Temporarily  Removed.&quot;  The  rest  of  the  pictures  in  the  room  were  all-too-obvious  fakes  murky  allegories  and  portraits  of  cattle,  paintings  whose  clumsy  modelling  and  ill-scumbled  backgrounds  mocked  even  their  tentative  &quot;School  of&quot;  and  &quot;Tin-  toretto  (?)&quot;  and  &quot;Master  of  the  Augs-  burg  Pruning  Hook&quot;  attributions.  Nat-  urally,  Cope  had  not  even  bothered  to  reply  to  his  ultimatum.  Valletti  glared  venomously  at  his  giggling  accomplices,  busy  plying  their  colored  marking  pens  on  an  increasingly  psychedelic  cast  of  Lemoyne's  &quot;The  Triumph  of  Vice.&quot;  He  pulled  out  his  vest-pocket  edition  of  the  &quot;I  Ching&quot;  and  looked  about  for  some  yarrow  stalks.  JARVIS  CoPpE  swept  purposefully  through  the  crowded  galleries.  His  sensuous  limp,  the  result  of  an  old  in-  jury  suffered  while  Indian-wrestling  with  the  chief  curator  of  the  Louvre,  sent  waves  of  helpless  love  through  Irmgaard  Frimgs  as  she  followed  in  his  wake.  The  confused  roaring  sound  from  Gallery  Nine  grew  louder  at  every  step.  Cope  and  Irmgaard  fought  their  way  through  the  crowd  of  onlookers  at  the  south  entrance  to  Gallery  Nine,  where  Chief  Attendant  Hawks  and  two  of  his  men  were  trying  vainly  to  pull  individuals  from  the  densely  packed  mass  inside.  &quot;It's  no  use,&quot;.  Hawks  said,  shouting  to  make  himself  heard  above  the  groans.  &quot;We've  tried  every-  thing,  but  we  can't  budge  'em.&quot;  &quot;Only  one  chance,&quot;  Cope  evenly.  &quot;What's  that,  sir?&quot;  &quot;Somebody  has  to  go  in  there  and  calm  them  down  first.&quot;  Hawks  grew  pale.  &quot;Go  in  there,  Mr.  Cope?&quot;  A  look  of  faint  amusement  crossed  Cope's  not-un-Medici-like  features.  &quot;I  meant  myself,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  you'll  just  give  me  a  leg  up.&quot;  Boosted  aloft  by  Hawks  and  an  agog  said  " b"24     attendant,  Jarvis  Cope,  ignoring  the  pain  in  his  leg,  began  crawling  over  the  heads  and  shoulders  of  the  trapped  art  lovers.  Their  groaning  rose  in  intensity  until  the  director  managed  by  an  effort  of  sheer  will  to  reach  the  center  of  the  mass  and,  standing  on  the  shoulders  of  a  socially  prominent  matron,  called  out  in  magnetic  tones  for  silence.  An  obedi-  ent  hush  descended.  &quot;Today,&quot;  Cope  said,  &quot;we  will  discuss  Rembrandt's  pro-  found  insight  into  human  nature.&quot;  A  loud  report,  followed  by.  two  others  that  were  even  louder,  obliter-  ated  his  next  sentence.  The  floor  of  Gallery  Nine  was  giving  way.  NTWINED  in  one  another's  arms  in  the  Palacio  Iturbide  Bed-  chamber,  P.  Enderby  Trevelyan  and  Romily  Cope  were  quite  surprised  to  find  clusters  of  people  dropping  down  on  them.  The  floor  of  Gallery  Nine  had  collapsed  at  one  end,  forming  a  chute  down  which  art  lovers  cascaded  in  a  tactile  tangle  of  arms,  legs,  camp  stools,  and  Gucci  handbags.  Amid  the  confusion,  the  guilty  pair  might  have  escaped  unnoticed  had  not  Jarvis  Cope  happened  to  land  beside  them  on  the  marquetry  bedstead.  Trevelyan,  Cope  noted  maliciously,  was  quite  unable  to  frame  a  pointed  question.  In  Gallery  Thirty-One,  the  sound  of  the  collapsing  floor  engaged  the  ever-active  curiosity  of  Ogpu  Valletti's  d\xc3\xa9butante  accomplices.  Peering  through  the  keyhole  and  seeing  the  outer  gal-  lery  deserted,  they  pulled  away  the  Jacobean  escritoire  that  Valletti  had  used  asa  barricade.  Valletti,  who  was  busy  deciphering  the  &quot;wu  wang&quot;  hexa-  gram,  failed  to  observe  their  departure.  The  girls  skipped  joyfully  through  the  museum,  daubing  with  their  pens  at  canvases  by  Mengs  and  Lucas  Cranach  the  Elder.  While  restorers  fought  to  save  Rem-  brandt's  &quot;Man  with  a  Smoked  Her-  ring,&quot;  badly  trampled  during  the  panic  in  Gallery  Nine,  a  delegation  of  con-  struction  workers  gathered  on  the  mu-  seum's  front  steps  to  demonstrate  in  support  of  Establishment  Art.  One  by  one,  the  members  ofthe  board  of  trustees  appeared  on  a  second-floor  bal-  cony  to  acknowledge  the  cheers  of  the  workers,  many  of  whose  hard  hats  bore  bright  decals  of  landscapes  by  Dwight  Eisenhower  and  Samuel  Gompers.  When  Jarvis  Cope  appeared  on  the  bal-  cony,  the  cheers  changed  abruptly  to  boos  and  crude  threats.  &quot;We  want  Karl  Friedrich  von  [REDACTED]!&quot;  the  demonstrators  yelled.  HE  bomb  went  off  at  4  p.m.  pre-  cisely.  It  rocked  the  vast  museum  from  top  to  bottom,  dislodging  plaster  casts  in  the  attic  and  Renaissance  scholars  in  the  basement,  where  the  Curator  of  Wickerware  groped  vainly  for  the  cadmium-blue  capsules  that  had  rolled  off  his  desk  and  vanished  forever  into  a  crack  in  the  floor.  Upstairs,  the  corridors  were  suddenly  filled  with  fly-  %  ing  shards  of  Italian  majolica,  terra-  cotta  figurines,  egg  tempera,  Chien  Lung  vases,  and  monographs  on  Si-  mone  Martini.  Fortunately,  no  one  was  hurt.  No  one,  that  is,  except  the  Curator  of  Oriental  Art,  who  at  the  moment  of  the  blast  had  been  seen,  with  fingers  in  both  ears,  hurrying  out  of  the  museum  and  into  the  park,  where  he  was  struck  down  by  a  run-  away  perambulator.  The  entire  staff  pitched  in  loyally  to  clear  thedebris  and  dust  off  the  trustees.  By  midnight,  the  great  mu-  seum  was  once  again  in  order.  Cope  and  Irmgaard,  leaning  on  their  mops  at  the  head  of  the  grand  staircase,  were  the  last  to  leave.  Weary  yet  deeply  content,  Cope  squeezed  Irmgaard's  mop-worn  handand  felt  her  answering  pressure.  Tomorrow,  in  all  probability,  would  be  another  day.  "