"28  THE  FOUNTAIN  N  the  forest  of  Morb,  which  means  untouched,  there  is  a  fountain  known  as  Llorndy,  which  means  unchanging.  The  forest  stretchesfor  many  days'  ride  over  the  plateau.  Oth-  er  trees  must  have  grown  there  once.  Now  there  are  none  but  the  oaks.  They  are  immense,  and  everywhere.  There  are  no  clearings.  The  forest  is  so  tall  and  dense  that  no  birds  live  in  it  except  owls  and  the  little  wren  that  can  make  her  way  through  the  unlit  veins  of  the  earth  to  its  heart  and  find  nourishment  on  the  way:  the  birdof  the  goddess  of  wisdom,  who  cannot  find  her  mistress;  and  the  bird  of  the  sovereign  of  darkness,  who  sings  to  her-  self.  No  one  lives  in  the  forest.  No  building  will  stand.  Springs  well  up  wherever  one  stone  is  placed  on  anoth-  er,  and  the  walls  topple  and  sink  into  the  earth  before  they  can  be  said  to  be  walls.  No  roads  cross  the  forest.  Water  emerges  from  them  before  they  have  been  laid,  and  they  become  long,  deep-  ening  quagmires.  No  paths  cross  the  forest.  Even  fresh  paths  of  deer  and  badgers  grow  old  after  a  few  yards  and  then  vanish  as  though  the  undergrowth  or  the  bed  of  leaves  had  never  been  dis-  turbed.  No  one  hunts  there.  The  owl  and  the  wren  follow  intruders,  calling  out  wherever  they  go.  There  is  no  other  voice,  except  their  echoes.  The  oaks  are  so  high  that  the  rustling  of  the  leaves  cannot  be  heard  from  the  ground,  but  the  murmur  seems  to  pre-  vent  any  other  vibration  from  enter-  ing.  Only  around  the  fountain  of  Llorndy  and  along  its  little  stream  of  sweet  water  is  there  a  contin-  uous  thread  of  sound.  The  fountain  emerg-  es  from  a  large  rock  on  a  gentle  slope-a  piece  of  pale-gray  stone,  limestone,  though  the  rocks  in  the  forest  and  in  the  piled  mounds  of  stone  around  it  are  granite  or  basalt  or  slate.  Its  pallor  is  star-  tling,  as  though  it  were  a  faint  light  among  the  dark  vegetation.  It  rises  in  a  vaguely  conical  shape,  with  two  col-  umns  down  the  front  and  the  green  stain  be-  tween  them  where  the  water  flows  to  begin  the  stream.  The  shape  of  an  animal,  seated  erect,  with  no  head.  At  the  level  ofthe  collar,  the  water  wells  out  and  brims  over,  blind,  tireless,  un-  changing.  Once,  the  forest  was  a  great  king-  dom,  rich  and  beautiful.  Its  farms  were  well  stocked  and  peaceful.  Its  arts  were  old  and  sure.  Its  borders  were  safe.  It  was  ongood  terms  with  its  neighbors.  It  was  ruled  by  a  king  who  was  culti-  vated,  intelligent,  kind,  and  beloved  of  his  subjects  and  of  his  family.  But  he  was  not  happy,  because  he  had  a  hard  heart.  He  knew  it.  He  had  tried  every-  thing:  women  and  religion,  the  com-  pany  of  children,  the  contemplation  of  flowers,  the  presence  of  animals,  the  sky  itself,  and  he  loved  them  all  but  he  could  tell  that  his  heart  was  still  hard.  He  loved  them,  he  confessed  to  him-  self,  only  because  he  could  imagine  that  they  were  his.  And  his  heart  remained  as  it  was.  When  his  secret  had  been  weighing  on  him  for  several  years,  the  kingdom  began  to  suffer  from  drought.In  spring  and  autumn,  when  rain  nor-  mally  fell  plentifully,  the  clouds  gath-  ered  as  usual  but  less  and  less  rain  fell  every  year,  and  in  some  years  there  was  almost  none.  The  winters  were  moistened  only  by  condensation  and  the  humors  remaining  in  the  earth.  New  wells  were  dug  but  they  ran  dryalmost  at  once.  Dams  were  made  but  their  water  seeped  away  into  cracked  mud.  The  pastures  grew  bare;  the  farms  were  hungry.  One  by  one,  family  by  family,  the  inhabitants  of  the  kingdom  asked  permission  to  leave.     JULY  11,  1970  The  king  was  kind  and  granted  it,  without  exception,  giving  each  family  some  present  as  it  left,  and  provisions  forthe  journey-dry  provisions,  and  even  a  supply  of  precious  water.  Some  were  too  ashamed  toask,  and  left  without  a  word.  The  kingdom  grew  emptier  as  the  months  passed,  and  drier.  The  king  sat  in  his  darkened  throne  room.  He  had  hung  the  walls  with  mourning.  The  windows  were  smoked,  the  columns  and  the  candles  were  painted  black.  It  was  painful  for  him  to  converse  with  anyone,  including  his  family.  He  knew  that  the  kingdom  was  suffering  this  misfortune  because  his  own  heart  was  hard.  &quot;And  if  only  my  heart  were  not  as  hard  as  it  is,&quot;  he  said  to  the  black  columns,  &quot;I  would  know  what  to  do.  Should  I  go  away?  Is  there  any  reason  to  imagine  thatthat  would  solve  the  matter?  As  long  as  my  heart  is  hard,  this  which  is  the  result  will  go  on.  Furthermore,  it  was  here  that  it  grew  hard.  Being  somewhere  else  will  not  change  it.  If  it  is  to  be  changed  it  had  best  be  changed  here,  or  else  I  will  never  be  sure.  &quot;Should  I  die?  But  what  difference  would  that  make?  If  I  died  with  a  hard  heart  would  anything  be  changed?  Everything  might  very  well  goon  just  as  it  is.  &quot;Should  I  abdicate?  It  would  make  no  difference.  My  own  hard  heart  brought  about  this  revulsion  in  nature;  there  is  no  way  I  can  leave  that  behind.  Even  if  I  went  and  lived  in  a  shep-  herd's  hut,  out  on  the  plateau  where  the  sheep  have  all  died  of  starvation  or  thirst,  my  heart  would  be  the  same,  and  so  nothing  would  change.&quot;  NE  day  ananimal  came  to  see  the  king.  He  had  never  seen  an  animal  like  that  one.  It  was  larger  than  a  horse  but  was  shaped  more  like  a  dog.  Its  eyes  were  set  so  deep  in  its  head  that  he  could  not  see  them  at  all.  They  seemed  to  be  nothing  but  holes.  The  animal  was  covered  with  long  pale  fur,  al-  most  white,  and  had  a  thick  tail,  and  paws  like  a  cat's.  The  claws  clicked  on  the  dark-  ened  stone  floor  of  the  throne  room.  The  creature  came  close  to  the  black  candle  burn-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  ing  in  front  of  the  throne  although  it  was  broad  day  outside,  and  there  it  greet-  ed  him.  &quot;What  can  I  do  for  you?&quot;&quot;  the  king  asked.  &quot;I  don't  need  anything,&quot;  the  animal  said.  &quot;It's  I  who've  come  to  help  you.&quot;  &quot;No  one  can  help  me,&quot;  the  king  said.  &quot;What  do  you  want?&quot;  the  animal  asked.  &quot;I  want  the  rain  to  fall  and  my  kingdom  to  be  hap-  py  as  it  [REDACTED];  the  king  said.  &quot;And  for  my  heart  not  to  be  hard  anymore.&quot;  &quot;Why  do  you  want  those  things?&quot;  the  animal  asked.  &quot;Can  you  doubt  that  I  want  them?&quot;  the  king  said.  &quot;I  see  no  reason  to  be-  lieve  it.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  I'm  in-  different  to  the  state  of  the  kingdom?&quot;  the  king  asked.  &quot;No,  I  don't  think  that.&quot;  There  was  a  pause.  The  king  looked  into  the  holes  that  were  the  animal's  eyes.  &quot;Where  did  you  from?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I  used  to  live  here,&quot;  the  animal  answered.  &quot;Before  this  palace  was  built.  Before  anything  was  built  here.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  all  thebeasts  from  those  days  were  dead,&quot;  the  king  said.  &quot;What  do  you  know  about  death?&quot;  the  animal  answered.  &quot;How  do  you  propose  to  help?&quot;  the  king  asked.  &quot;Here,&quot;  said  the  animal,  tearing  a  tuft  of  fur  from  its  breast.  &quot;'Take  this.  Give  it  to  your  elder  son.  Sendhim  to  the  northern  part  of  the  plateau,  to  the  driestplace.  Tell  him  to  make  a  hole  in  the  ground  with  his  hands  and  plant  this  tuft  of  hair.  When  he  has  done  that,  I  will  come  back  and  tell  you  what  you  owe  me.&quot;  The  animal  turned  and  went  slow-  ly  across  the  throne  room,  with  its  claws  clicking  on  the  darkened  stones,  and  out  the  door.  The  king  sat  in  the  dark  with  the  fur  in  his  hand,  turning  it,  fingering  it.  It  was  damp  to  the  touch.  It  of-  fered  no  explanations,  He  had  to  admit  that  he  was  afraid,  and  not  sure  why.  What  should  he  do  now?  He  did  not  believe  that  the  fur  would  make  any  difference  to  anything,  but  what  if  it  did?  What  might  it  do?  What  might  the  animal  demand  in  return?  Though  come   surely  if  he  did  nothing  now  it  would  seem  as  though  he  really  were  indif-  ferent  to  the  state  of  his  kingdom.  It  would  bea  proof  that  his  heart  was  growing  still  harder.  He  sat  pondering  the  matter  for  the  rest  of  the  after-  noon  and  only  when  night  fell  did  he  call  his  elder  son.  The  young  man  had  too  profound  a  respect  for  his  father,  for  the  throne,  and  for  his  father's  unhappiness  to  show  any  surprise.  He  took  the  fur  from  his  father's  hand  and  left  that  night.  By  the  next  night  he  was  back,  but  the  news  had  travelled  ahead  of  him.  No  sooner  had  he  planted  the  fur,  he  said,  in  the  driest  place  in  the  northern  plateau,  than  aspring  of  water  welled  up  from  the  spot  and  spread  swiftly  into  a  wide  basin,  brimming  over  and  flowing  away  across  the  plain.  If  it  went  on,  the  pastures  would  begin  to  inch  back  over  the  shrivelled  wastes.  The  sun  would  bea  blessing  again.  A  week  passed,  two  weeks,  a  month,  and  the  water  went  on  flowing.  The  king  felt  a  deadly  misgiving  in  his  heart  but  he  could  not  run  it  to  earth.  The  throne  room  remained  dark.  He  wait-  ed  forthe  animal  to  return.  And  when  the  month  was  up  the  animal  reappeared.  It  came  in  and  sat  before  the  throne.  &quot;Have  I  helped  you?&quot;  it  asked.  &quot;I  am  not  sure,&quot;  the  king  answered.  &quot;Has  the  water  not  come  back?&quot;  &quot;It  has.&quot;  &quot;Was  that  not  what  you  wanted?&quot;  &quot;It  was.&quot;  But  the  king  knew  that  his  own  heart  was  as  hard  as  ever.  And  yet  he  was  ashamed  to  mention  the  factto  the  animal,  when  the  water  had  al-  ready  made  such  a  difference  to  the  lives  of  many  of  his  subjects.  He  felt  thatthat  would  be  selfish.  It  would  also  be  difficult  to  explain.  What  do  animals  know  about  the  hardness  of  human  hearts?  &quot;What  do  I  owe  you?&quot;  the  king  asked.  &quot;I  wish  to  be  restored  to  my  ancient  office,&quot;  the  animal  said.  &quot;I  wish  to  be  appointed  Warden  of  the  Waters,  with  full  authority  over  theuse  of  all  the  waters  in  your  kingdom.&quot;  The  king  bowed  his  head  and  thought.  Had  he  the  right,  he  asked  himself,  to  grant  to  an  animal  control  over  the  prosperity  and  even  the  lives  of  his  subjects,  to  leave  their  welfare  and  their  futures  in  the  hands  of  a     " b"30  creature  he  knew  nothing  about  except  that  water  came  from  its  planted  fur?  That  was  the  first  objection  he  admitted  to  himself.  Then  there  was  another.  Suppose  the  animal  did  administer  the  waters  fairly  and  even  magnanimous-  ly.  The  king's  heart  would  remain  un-  changed.  And  it  was  the  hardness  of  the  king's  heart,  he  remindedhim-  self,  that  had  caused  the  drought.  If  the  water  flowed  now  from  some  other  cause,  his  heart  might  never  be  able  to  change  again.  And  for  another  thing,  could  any  relief  of  the  drought  that  came  from  outside  be  regarded  as  trustworthy,  in  the  circumstances,or  even  real?  &quot;Ask  something  else,&quot;  the  said.  &quot;I  cannot  give  you  that.&quot;  &quot;You  do  not  know  what  you  want,&quot;  the  animal  said.  &quot;But  maybe  you  will  find  it  anyway.&quot;  It  turned  and  went  out  of  the  throne  room.  The  next  morning,  the  elder  son  was  found  dead  in  his  bed.  And  in  the  afternoon  news  came  that  the  spring  in  the  northern  plateau  had  dried  up.  The  king  sat  in  the  throne  room,  numb  and  cold.  &gt;  king  MONTH  passed.  The  drought  was  unchanged.  Once  more  the  animal  stood  before  the  king.  \xc2\xabThere's  no  point  in  your  coming  again,&quot;  the  king  said.  &quot;Do  you  think  that  if  your  heart  were  to  break  ..  .&quot;  the  animal  began.  &quot;What?&quot;  the  king  asked,  trying  to  look  into  the  animal's  eyes.  &quot;Water  would  flow  from  the  cracks,  and  everything  else  would  be  whole  again?&quot;  &quot;It  might  be,&quot;  the  king  answered.  &quot;But  my  heart  will  not  break.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know?&quot;  the  animal  asked.  &quot;It  should  have  broken  by  now.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  still  care  about  your  king-  dom  at  all?&quot;  &quot;Would  I  be  here  otherwise?&quot;  The  animal  tore  out  another  tuft  of  its  fur  and  held  it  out  to  the  king.  &quot;Give  this  to  your  other  [REDACTED];  it  said.  \xc2\xabTell  him  to  take  it  to  all  the  dry  stream  beds  in  the  kingdom  and  drop  a  hair  in  each.  I  will  come  back  and  tell  you  what  you  owe  me.&quot;  Once  more,  after  the  animal  had  gone,  the  king  sat  in  silence  pondering  the  tuft  of  fur  inhis  hand,  feeling  as  though  he  were  drifting  out  over  an  abyss.  In  the  evening  he  summoned  his  other  son  and  told  him  what  to  do.  Day  after  day  the  newscame  in  from  the  kingdom  that  the  streams  were  flowing  again,  the  lakes  were  filling,  the  old  mill  wheels  were  begin-    ning  to  turn  with  a  terrible  screeching  and  shrieking  after  so  long  standing  parched  and  split.  There  were  even  fish  in  the  streams  and  ponds,  as  large  as  though  they  had  been  growing  through  the  whole  time  of  the  drought.  The  other  son  came  home  happy,  with  mes-  sages  of  affection  and  presents  from  all  parts  of  the  kingdom,  and  his  carriage  full  ofpretty  girls.  The  king  was  polite.  But  he  trusted  nothing.  He  grew,  if  anything,  more  withdrawn.  Curtains  were  made  for  the  throne  room,  because  the  light  hurt  his  eyes.  A  month  after  the  return  of  his  son,  the  animal  reappeared.  &quot;Great  king,&quot;  it  said.  And  then  it  sat  down  in  front  of  the  throne.  &quot;Why  do  you  call  me  that?&quot;  the  king  asked.  &quot;Because  of  you  the  kingdom  is  happy  again.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  it  were  so,&quot;the  king  said.  &quot;You  can  make  it  so,&quot;  the  animal  said.  &quot;I  do  not  know  how.&quot;  &quot;Give  me  my  ancient  office.  Ap-  point  me  Warden  of  the  Waters  of  your  kingdom.&quot;  Again  the  king  considered  the  mat-  ter.  Yes,  suppose  it  was  true  that  the  animal  could  make  the  springs  rise  and     Truax  the  streamsflow  as  it  willed.  What  other  powers  might  it  not  have  that  could  involve  the  country  in  greater  miseries  than  any  it  had  yet  suffered,  if  the  king  were  to  grant  the  creature  a  position  of  such  authority.  And  if  the  original  cause  of  the  kingdom's  disasters  lay,  in  fact,  in  the  king's  own  heart,  would  any  change  of  the  external  cir-  cumstances  be  likely  to  last?  Would  it  be  something  on  which  to  base  the  fu-  ture  of  the  kingdom?  Would  it  not  simply  remove  all  hope  that  theking's  heart  might  ever  change?  It  was  true  that  this  time  the  king  was  afraid  of  the  animal.  But  could  he  allow  his  own  fears,  even  for  those  near  him,  toin-  fluence  him  in  his  duty  to  the  king-  dom?  &quot;I  have  no  right  to  grant  you  that,&quot;  the  king  said.  &quot;You  know  nothing  about  rights,&quot;  the  animal  said.  &quot;And  you  will  never  know  anything  about  them.  You  can  give  me  what  I  ask.  Or  you  can  re-  fuse.&quot;  &quot;I  cannot  give  you  what  you  ask.&quot;  &quot;You  can  give  me  whatever  you  want  to  give  me.  That  is  what  a  king  is,&quot;  the  animal  answered.  &quot;No,&quot;  the  king  said  at  last,  still  hop-  ing  that  one  day  his  heart  might  under-  go  a  change.  And  the  animal  went  away.  The  next  day  theking's  other  son  was  found  dead  in  his  bed,  and  the  news  began  to  come  in  that  the  streams  were  shrinking  and  the  ponds  drying  up.  At  the  king's  orders  the  whole  country  went  into  mourning.  All  the  flames  in  hearths  were  covered  with  ashes  and  " b"      gave  of  f  nothing  but  s  moke.  Wh  ite  bones  were  hung  against  the  doors  and  windows  and  rattled  in  the  wind.  T  the  end  of  a  month,  the  animal  entered  the  dark  throne  room  again.  The  king  stared  at  the  creature  with  hatred  and  dread.  &quot;Why  have  you  come  back&quot;&quot;  he  ask  ed.  &quot;We  have  nothi  ng  to  say  to  each  other.  Each  of  us  must  pursue  his  own  nature.&quot;  &quot;I've  no  quarrel  with  that,&quot;  the  animal  said.  &quot;But  I  kee  p  t  hinki  n  g  that  I  can  help  you.  That's  par  t  of  my  na-  ture.  It's  never  changed.&quot;  &quot;I  won't  make  you  any  promises,&quot;  the  king  sai  d.  &quot;I  am  not  sure  of  any-  thing  any  longer  except  one  quality  of  my  own  heart.&quot;  &quot;Its  darkness?&quot;  the  animal  asked.  &quot;Its  hardness,&quot;  the  king  said.  &quot;Here,&quot;  the  animal  said,  tearing  out  a  third  tuft  of  fur  and  holding  it  out  to  the  king.  &quot;I'll  try  once  more.  Take  this  everywhere  in  your  king-  dom.  From  every  rock  on  which  you  lay  a  hair  a  trickle  of  clear  water  will     begin  to  flow.  From  every  hillside  on  which  you  lay  a  piece  of  fur  a  stream  wi  ll  begin.  Merely  brush  the  village  fountains  with  the  ends  of  it  and  they  will  leap  into  the  air.  Keep  the  fur  .  It  will  last  you  as  long  as  you  need  it.  IT  will  as  k  you  nothing  in  return.  Not  now.  Not  in  the  future.&quot;  The  king  felt  the  fur  i  n  his  hand.  He  looked  at  the  anim  al  sitting  in  front  of  him.  He  l  ooked  at  the  empty  eyes.  He  im  agined  going  out  with  the  fur,  t  he  springs  flowing,  the  joy  in  the  land.  He  tho  ught  of  how  h  e  would  owe  all  of  that  to  this  animal.  And  then  he  thought  of  his  own  hear  t.  Nothing  would  ev  er  change  it  again.  Th  e  flocks  would  fatten,  the  people  grow  rich  and  happ  y  and  bless  him.  It  would  all  be  du  e  to  this  beast  who  was  really  the  Warden  of  the  Waters.  A  nd  mean-  while  his  heart  would  remain  as  hard  as  ever,  and  no  happiness  would  be  real,  and  one  day,  promise  or  no  promise,  the  beast  might  return  and  demand  .  ..  anything.  .  .  .  He  stopped  there.  There  was  a  way  out.  It  was  hard,  but  it  was  a  solution.  Or  at  least  it  was  SH     a  decision.  It  came  from  that  very  hardness  of  hi  s  heart.  He  tho  ught  of  his  dead  sons.  He  thought  of  the  pos-  sible  threat  to  the  future  of  the  king-  dom  .  He  clutched  thefu  r  in  his  left  hand,  and  with  his  right  he  drew  his  sword  as  he  leapt  to  his  feet.  With  one  stroke  he  seve  red  the  animal's  head  from  its  shoulders.  And  the  candles  went  out.  And  the  windows  fell  in.  And  the  throne  col-  l  apsed.  And  the  ceiling  peeled  away  li  ke  shaving  s  and  r  olled  down  the  crum  bling  walls.  And  from  t  he  ani-  mal's  neck  the  fountain  began  to  flow.  The  fountain  of  Llorndy,  on  its  way  to  the  salt.  But  the  king  fell  back  on  t  he  stones  and  from  his  hea  rt  t  he  first  of  the  oaks  raised  tw  o  tender  le  aves. "