ON  A  VWAGON  EJowIEC  was  the  last  station.  R  From  there  to  Zamos\xc2\xa7\xc3\xa9  one  went  by  horse  and  buggy.  Ozer  Me-  cheles  got  off  the  train  with  two  valises  and  stood  for  a  moment  on  the  plat-  form.  The  summer  night  was  warm  and  moonless.  The  conductor  had  put  out  the  candles  in  the  carsof  the  train  as  soon  as  the  passengers  stepped  down,  and  the  only  light  came  from  a  kerosene  lamp  in  the  empty  station.  For  a  while,  the  locomotive  puffed  thick  smoke,  hissed,  and  poured  water;  then  it  began  to  move  backward.  Ozer  caught  a  glimpse  of  the  engineer.  He  stood  at  the  window,  half  illuminated  by  the  fire  in  the  box,  his  face  smeared  with  soot  like  a  chimney  sweep's.  He  madeOzer  think  of  the  black  angels  of  Gehenna  de-  scribed  in  &quot;The  Rod  of  Punishment.&quot;  The  station  was  situated  a  few  versts  from  the  village,  and  the  breezes  that  drifted  from  the  fields  smelled  of  fresh-  cut  hay  and  the  smoke  of  fires  in  which  shepherds  were  roasting  potatoes.  Frogs  croaked.  Crickets  chirped.  A  wagon  drawn  by  one  hors:  arrived  from  some-  where,  and  Ozer  knew  that  it  would  take  him  through  the  night  all  the  way  to  ZamoS.  Another  passenger  waited  on  the  platform-a  woman  from  the  same  train.  In  the  light  of  the  station  lamp  Ozer  could  see  that  she  was  young.  She  wore  a  long  skirt  and  a  white  blouse,  and  her  wide-brimmed  straw  hat  was  circled  with  flowers.  She  left  her  bags  on  the  platform  and  seemed  to  hesitate  before  approaching  Ozer.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  Zamo\xc2\xa7?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Ozer  said.  &quot;To  Zamos\xc3\xa9.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  your  home  town?&quot;  &quot;I  am  from  [REDACTED],  but  my  parents,  in-law  live  in  Zamos\xc3\xa9.&quot;  &quot;Whose  son-in-law  are  you,  if  I  may  ask?&quot;  &quot;Gabriel  Danziger's.&quot;  &quot;Nesha's  husband!&quot;  cried.  &quot;'Yes,  Nesha's  husband.&quot;  &quot;Then  I  was  at  your  wedding-  and  here  I  was  standing  asking  myself,  'Is  he  or  is  he  not  from  Zamos\xc2\xa7C!  It's  so  dark  I  wouldn't  recognize  my  own  mother.  I  am  a  great  friend  of  your  sister-in-law  Mirale.  So  you  are  Ozer  Mecheles.&quot;  &quot;That's  right.  May  I  ask  whom  I  have  the  honor  of  speaking  to?&quot;  &quot;Sonia  Felhendler.  My  maiden  name  was  Bardulin.  My  husband  is  Feivel  Felhendler,  from  the  sawmill.&quot;  &quot;I  know  your  husband  and  your  fa-  ther-in-law  quite  well,&quot;  Ozer  said.  the  woman  &quot;Who  doesn't  know  them?  Zamo\xc2\xa7\xc3\xa9  isn't  [REDACTED],  after  all.  But  our  coach-  man  is  waiting.&quot;  And  she  called  out,  &quot;Reb  Zeinvel,  are  you  ready?&quot;  Zeinvel,  a  little  man  almost  as  broad  as  he  was  tall,  wore  on  this  summer  night  a  padded  jacket,  a  sheepskin  hat,  heavy  boots.  He  smelled  of  axle  grease  and  sweat.  He  cracked  his  whip.  &quot;Yes,  ready!&quot;  he  called  back.  &quot;How  many  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Only  two.&quot;  &quot;IT'wo,  ch-for  that  I  will  not  have  enough  for  the  Sabbath.  Well,  what  are  you  standing  around  for?  Get  in.&quot;  \xc2\xabWill  you  be  so  good  as  to  take  care  of  my  luggage?&quot;  the  woman  said.  &quot;Where  is  it'  Without  the  moon,  it's  as  dark  as  [REDACTED]  in  this  godfor-  saken  hole.  The  Russian  pig,  curse  him,  is  too  stingy  to  pay  for  half  a  quart  of  kerosene.  Get  in,  get  in.  Yesterday,  I  had  a  full  wagon.  Today,  nobody.  Well,  so  be  it.  If  only  it  doesn't  rain.  The  way  my  left  leg  twinges,  we're  in  for  nasty  weather.&quot;  Ozer  hurried  to  load  the  baggage  himself  and  helped  Sonia  into  the  wag-  on.  There  was  a  fragrance  about  her  of  perfume,  chocolate,  cookies.  She  leaned  on  his  shoulder  for  support,  and  Ozer's  hand  inadvertently  touched  her  breast.  He  apologized,  and  she  laughed.  The  wagon  had  four  benches,  up-  holstered  in  horsehair.  Hay  and  straw  covered  the  floor.  Sonia  sat  down  on  the  rear  bench,  which  had  a  back.  She  pointed  to  the  space  beside  her.  &quot;Sit  near  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Yes,thank  you.&quot;  It's  a  miracle  it's  dark,  Ozer  thought.  He  felt  himself  blushing.  Although  even  before  he  left  the  yeshiva  he  considered  himself  en-  lightened,  read  modern  books,  and  now  in  [REDACTED]  spent  time  in  museums  and  the  observatory,  he  still  suffered  from  bashfulness.  He  grew  red  in  the  face  when  a  girl  or  a  young  woman  ad-  dressed  him.  Whenever  he  went  to  [REDACTED],  he  realized  how  far  he  really  was  from  worldliness.  He  got  lost  in  the  streets  and  had  to  ask  his  way.  In  the  hotel,  he  had  trouble  finding  his  room.  When  he  spoke  on  the  tele-  phone,  he  became  deaf.  All  kinds  of  mishaps  befell  him.  The  shoelaces  that  he  knotted  in  the  morning  kept  com-  ing  untied.  His  black  Chassidic  tie  hung  always  askew.  His  father-in-law  was  trying  to  make  him  a  drygoods  mer-       25  chant  and  had  sent  him  to  buy  for  the  store,  but  he  could  not  differentiate  be-  tween  wool  and  felt.  Besides,  he  had  an  aversion  to  the  [REDACTED]  wholesale  mer-  chants-their  vulgar  jokes  and  sales-  men's  antics.  Behind  his  father-in-law's  back,  he  studied  algebra,  physics,  philos-  ophy.  In  one  of  his  valises  he  carried  Darwin's  &quot;The  Origin  of  Species&quot;  and  a  book  about  astronomy  by  Flam-  marion,  translated  into  Polish.  It  was  too  late  for  him  to  enter  the  university  to  become  a  doctor,  an  engineer,  or  a  chemist.  He  studied  only  because  of  his  desire  for  knowledge.  But  as  Zeinvel  the  coachman  had  just  said,  from  that  one  would  not  have  enough  for  the  Sabbath.  Zeinvel  had  disappeared.  In  the  half-  darkness,  the  horse  chewed  oats  from  a  burlap  bag,  spilling  some  grains.  Every  now  and  then  it  stamped  the  ground,  as  though  impatient.  Sonia  Felhendler  had  taken  off  her  hat  and  placed  it  on  the  bench  in  front  of  her.  She  smoothed  her  black  hair,  which  was  coiled  at  the  nape  of  her  neck,  and  settled  herself  comfortably.  Ozer  Mecheles  tried  to  move  over  to  give  her  more  space,  but  she  was  spread  out  on  the  short  bench  in  such  a  way  that  he  could  feel  her  hip.  She  opened  her  bag  and  took  out  halvah  and  biscuits,  ate  some  herself,  and  of-  fered  some  to  Ozer.  She  said,  &quot;Why  do  you  move  away?  You'll  fall  out  of  the  wagon.&quot;  After  a  while,she  added,  &quot;You  are  not  so  holy.&quot;  Zeinvel  reappeared,  bringing  a  sack  and  a  crate.  Ordinarily,  he  did  not  carry  baggage,  but  as  he  had  only  two  passen-  gers  he  would  make  a  gulden  on  the  side.  After  the  sack  and  crate,  he  loaded  a  pack  of  flax.  This  freight  almost  hid  the  horse  and  the  driver's  seat.  Sonia  began  to  laugh  softly.  &quot;Next  thing,  he'll  bring  a  barrel  of  herring.&quot;  Zeinvel  got  in,  waved  his  whip:  giddap.  The  horse  walked  slowly  on  the  broken  cobblestone  road  with  its  ditches  and  holes.  In  the  fall  and  spring,  the  cart  often  overturned  and  threw  its  passengers  into  the  mud.  But  after  Pentecost  the  mud  had  dried.  Now  the  road  stretched  between  ripe  fields,  pastures  where  horses  grazed  through  the  night,  haystacks,  and  sleeping  ham-  lets.  Dew  was  forming.  A  night  bird  cried.  At  the  edge  of  the  horizon  there  was  lightning  not  followed  by  thunder.  Ozer  looked  in  silence  from  right  to  epe  " b" left.  He  had  lived  almost  twenty-five  years,  he  had  read  many  scientific  books,  but  the  world  remained  as  much  a  riddle  to  him  as  when  he  had  started  cheder.  The  wagon  went  over  a  bridge.  Stars  were  reflected  in  the  water.  Where  the  river  turned  to  the  right,  a  mist  rose,  white  as  milk.  There  was  no  doubt  about  it-Sonia  pressed  her  foot  against  his  deliberately.  Her  soft  knee  spoke  to  his  knee  independently  and  in  a  language  that  only  the  flesh  under-  stands.  Ozer  was  amazed;  she  had  a  decent  husband,  wealthy,  the  owner  of  a  sawmill-even  somewhat  worldly.  What  could  she  want  from  him,  Ozer?  Or  was  she  just  teasing.  Sonia  asked,  &quot;You  come  from  War-  saw,  eh?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  from  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  do  in  [REDACTED]?  Do  you  buy  drygoods  for  your  father-in-  law?&quot;  Ozer  did  not  answer  immediately.  &quot;My  father-in-law  wants  to  make  a  merchant  out  of  me,  but  I  am  afraid  nothing  will  come  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Would  you  rather  be  a  profes-  sor?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cTOO  01d.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Mark  my  words,  you  will  be  a  merchant.  My  Uncle  Beinush  was  so  unworldly  as  a  boy  he  didn't  know  the  difference  between  a  kopeck  and  a  ruble,  but  he  became  a  successful  busi-  nessman.  He  was  even  accused  of  filch-  ing  money  from  a  squire.  Besides,  Reb  Gabriel  Danziger  will  leave  you  a  nice  heritage.&quot;  \xc2\xa9  &quot;Let  him  live  one  hundred  and  twenty  years.&quot;  &quot;Why  should  anyone  live  so  long?  For  myself,  I'll  be  satisfied  to  reach  forty-five.&quot;  &quot;No  longer  than  that?&quot;  &quot;What  is  a  woman  after  forty-five?  Old,  sick,  worn  out.  Trouble  begins  with  daughters,  sons-in-law,  daughters,  in-law,  grandchildren.  I  could  make  peace  with  a  short  life,  but  it  has  to  taste  good.&quot;  &quot;From  what  I  know,  you  have  a  good  life.&quot;  &quot;Not  bad.  But  what  does  a  small  town  have  to  offer?  No  theatre.  No  circus.  Why,  when  so  much  as  a  per-  forming  bear  arrives  the  whole  place  goes  wild.  There  isn't  even  anywhere  to  takea  real  walk.  And  who  could  I  go  walking  with?  Feivel  is  always  busy  with  his  lumber.  Your  sister-in-law  Mi-  rale  can't  leave  her  children.  Your  Nesha  used  to  be  a  jolly  girl,  but  she's  not  the  same  anymore.  Besides,  she's  younger  than  I  am.&quot;  &quot;What  was  she  before?&quot;  &quot;A  husband  shouldn't  be  too  nosy,&quot;  Sonia  said,  and  gave  a  short  laugh.  &quot;I  hope  nothing  bad.&quot;  &quot;No,  but  she  liked  to  enjoy  herself.  She  was  the  best  dancer  in  ZamoS.  We  girls  used  to  gather  at  Zalman  Kroses'-he  has  a  living  room  as  big  as  a  forest,  and  we  used  to  dance  there.  He  forbade  boys  and  girls  to  dance  to-  gether,  but  he  went  to  sleep  at  nine  and  we  did  as  we  pleased  until  eleven.  The  boys  would  sneak  in  through  the  JULY  25,  1970  back  door.  Those  were  gay  times-especially  in  winter.  Your  Nesha  was  always  the  life  of  the  party.  Half  the  young  men  in  Zamos\xc3\xa9  were  in  love  with  her,  but  she  was  madly  infatuated  with  a  cheap  guy.&quot;  Ozer  felt  hot  under  his  collar.  &quot;Who  was  that?&quot;  *  &quot;Oh,  you  know  well  enough.  That  kind  of  thing  gets  around.  Don't  play  in-  nocent  with  me.&quot;  &quot;I  swear  I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;Well,  men  are  funny!  What  difference  does  it  make  at  this  point?  What  hap-  pened  happened.&quot;  &quot;Please,  do  me  a  favor.  Tell  me  who  he  is.&quot;  &quot;Curious,  eh?&quot;  Sonia  be-  gan  to  murmur.  &quot;All  right,  then,  I'll  whisper  in  your  ear.I  wouldn't  want  Zeinvel  to  listen.&quot;  She  leaned  over,  took  Ozer's  neck,  and  bent  his  head  toward  her.  Her  hand  was  warm,  her  lips  touched  his  ear.  &quot;Mendele  Shmeiser.&quot;  And  she  did  something  to  Ozer's  ear  that  no  woman  had  done  before;  she  pushed  her  tongue  into  it  and  licked  it.  Ozer  was  startled  both  by  the  name  and  by  what  she  did.  His  ear  burned  and  rang.  He  was  overcome  by  anger  and  an  unfamiliar  feeling  of  shame.  He  knew  Mendele  Shmeiser-a  musician  and  a  barber.  He  had  a  round  face,  a  head  of  curly  hair,  and  a  thin  twirled  mustache;  his  chin  was  cleft.  Even  though  he  never  went  riding,  he  carried  a  crop  and  wore  breeches  and  highly  polished  riding  boots.  He  was  known  for  his  spicy  jokes.  Ozer  felt  sick  to  his  stomach  and  his  mouth  filled  with  bile.  He  thought  he  was  going  to  vomit,  but,  using  all  his  will,  he  managed  to  control  himself.  His  left  leg  trembled,but  his  right,  which  Sonia  was  pressing  with  hers,  remained  steady.  His  forehead  became  moist.  Sparks  flew  before  his  eyes  in  fiery  designs-triangles,  rhombs,  circles;  green,  blue,  violet-the  exact  formations  and  colors  he  used  to  see  as  a  child  in  half  dream  before  falling  asleep.  In  spite  of  his  doubts  about  God,  he  murmured  a  prayer.  &quot;Father  in  Heaven,  let  me  not  be  disgraced.&quot;  E  heard  Sonia  speaking-her  voice  seemed  to  come  from  far  away.  &quot;After  all,  it's  not  the  Middle  Ages,&quot;  she  was  saying.  &quot;It's  the  twentieth  century.  It's  high  time  humanity  be-  came  civilized.  Zamo\xc2\xa7\xc3\xa9  is  neither  Bil-  goraj  nor  Tomaszow.  A  woman  is  just  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  as  entitled  to  enjoy  herself  as  a  man.  We  grabbed  what  we  could.  Was  that  so  wrong?  The  minute  you're  married  and  then  pregnant,  everything  is  fin-  ished.  Feet  stop  being  so  light  for  danc-  ing.  That  Mendele  is  a  no-good  fellow,  but  he  knows  how  to  make  a  girl  fall  for  him.  He  kissed  everybody-a  real  sport.  Your  Nesha  was  terribly  jealous!  She  wanted  him  all  for  herself,  the  poor  girl.&quot;  Ozer  bent  his  head  in  silence.  &quot;I  shouldn't  have  told  you  this.  Give  me  your  hand.  Swear  that  you  won't  reproach  her.&quot;  &quot;No.&quot;   Ozer's  audible.  &quot;Some  time  before  the  marriage  agreement  was  signed,  she  got  sick  and  had  to  go  to  [REDACTED].  They  said  all  kinds  of  things.  But  what  does  that  mean?  People  gossip.  Swear.&quot;  Sonia  took  Ozer's  hand  and  put  it  on  her  breast.  She  held  it  there  with  her  own.  &quot;What  does  it  matter?  Now  she  is  your  wife.  Still,  she  hasn't  forgotten  Mendele.  We  were  all  standing  around  in  T'sippe's  Candy  Store  one  afternoon  not  long  ago  when  he  came  in.  She  looked  at  him  and  turned  as  white  as  chalk.  And  what  do  you  think  he  did!  He  held  out  his  riding  crop  and  lifted  up  her  skirt.  To  him  a  woman  is  worth  nothing,  because  they  all  throw  them-  selves  at  him.  A  shameless  rascal,  even  though  he  is  handsome.&quot;  &quot;Handsome  .  .  .  Well-&quot;  &quot;A  big  talker,  that's  all  he  is.  An  ugly  mouth.  But  when  he  talks  it  does  something  to  you.  Still,  a  man  can  come  from  a  Chassidic  house  and  also  have  charm.  I  like  you  better  than  Mendele  Shmeiser.  You're  quiet  and  gentle.  Nesha  doesn't  appreciate  you.  This  is  the  truth.If  I  had  you,  I  wouldn't  even  look  at  Mendele.&quot;  &quot;Does  she  meet  him?&quot;  &quot;Who  knows  what  a  woman  does  when  her  husband  is  out  of  town!  You  can  love  your  husband  and  still  be  interested  in  another  man.  Some-  times  you  want  a  change.  A  woman  doesn't  wear  the  same  dress  forever.  You  don't  eat  noodles  with  boiled  beef  every  evening.  Am  I  right?&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  you  are  right,&quot;  Ozer  Mecheles  mumbled.  The  bitterness  remained  in  his  mouth.  Stealthily,  he  withdrew  his  hand  from  Sonia's  breast.  The  night  had  grown  darker.  Ev-  erything  had  merged:  fields,  road,  sky.  The  horse  moved  slowly;  once  in  a  while  it  stopped  and  then  moved  for-  ward  again,.  Ozer  remembered  his  mother's  saying  that  animals  see  de-  mons-a  horse  will  halt  to  let  one  of  the  voice  was  barely  night  creatures  pass  by.  The  wheels  knocked  against  the  cobblestones,  The  air  remained  warm,  humid.  Who  knows,  Ozer  thought,  maybe  a  comet  is  approaching  the  earth.  This  night  may  be  the  end  of  existence.  Since  the  heavenly  bodies  have  neither  purpose  nor  consciousness,  such  encounters  are  unavoidable.  Zeinvel  the  coachman  kept  silent  on  the  other  side  of  the  load,  or  perhaps  he  had  dozed  off.  Soniaagain  took  Ozer's  hand  and  put  it  against  her  breast.  &quot;Please  don't  be  a  stick-in-the-mud.&quot;  She  spoke  with  a  kind  of  insolence  that  was  unknown  to  him.  &quot;Why  should  God  care  if  young  people  enjoy  themselves?:  And  how  do  you  know  there  is  a  God?  The     27  delegate  from  [REDACTED]  said  that  every-  thing  was  evolution.  He  said  that  the  earth  was  hot  and  it  cooled  off,  like  the  crust  on  a  pot  of  buckwheat.  Is  that  true?&quot;  &quot;Who  knows.&quot;  &quot;I  love  Feivel.  But  if  you  love  butter  cookies,  can't  you  eat  a  few  macaroons?  Why  should  men  have  it  all  their  own  way?  They  chase  after  every  skirt.  I  was  sitting  on  the  train,  and  in  comes  a  travelling  salesman.  We  got  talking.  He  had  a  wife  and  three  children,  but  that  didn't  keep  him  from  other  men's  wives.  Wherever  he  goes,  he'll  find  a  woman,  Gentile  or  Jewish.  He  propositioned  me,  but  I  didn't  like  him-small,  fat,  paunchy.  If  I  take " b"28  on  someone,  I  want  to  enjoy  it,  too.  Do  you  understand  [REDACTED];  &quot;Yes,  I  understand.  Our  fathers  and  mothers&quot;  &quot;Fathers  and  mothers!&quot;  Sonia  half  cried  out.  &quot;What  were  they-fanatics!  They  wasted  their  years  on  the  Talmud  and  the  supplication  books.  What  did  my  mother  get  out  of  life?  At  thirty-four  she  became  a  widow,  and  that  was  the  end.  The  day  before  the  new  moon,  she  used  to  go  to  the  cemetery  and  prostrate  herself  over  my  father's  grave.  She  spoke  to  him  as  if  he  were  alive,  told  him  all  the  news  about  the  chil-  dren.  Silly  superstition!  The  world  has  awakened,  but  they  don't  even  know  they're  living  in  the  twentieth  century.  What's  the  matter?&quot;  Sonia  changed  her  tone.  &quot;Aren't  youwell?&quot;  'Yes.  No.&quot;  &quot;Why  do  you  tremble?  Are  you  cold?&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  have  a  fever.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  so?  Well-&quot;  Sonia  made  a  gesture  that  meant  You  can  now  take  away  your  hand.  She  even  moved  over.  She  was  saying,  &quot;In  the  restaurants  in  [REDACTED],  they  give  you  meat  left  over  from  the  Flood.  You  probably  upset  your  stomach.  When  you  get  home,  take  castor  oil.  There's  nothing  better.  Remember,  what  I  told  you  is  our  secret.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  certainly.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  ever  walk  in  the  woods?&quot;  &quot;What  woods?&quot;  &quot;In  a  small  town  like  ours,  every-  thing  is  done  in  the  woods.  In  the  middle  of  the  week,  the  woods  are  emp-  ty.  Saturday,  the  rabble  arrives  and  it's  worse  than  the  marketplace.  .  ..&quot;  zEr  MrcouruEes  did  not  answer.  He  remembered  that  he  had  found  a  photograph  of  Mendele  Shmeiser  in  Nesha's  album.  He  shiv-  ered.  Nesha  was  making  a  fool  of  him.  She  was  in  love  with  a  barber-an  ignoramus,  a  scoundrel.  She  had  told  Ozer  recently  that  she  was  pregnant.  Who  knew,  it  might  be  by  Mendele  Shmeiser.  What  was  there  to  curb  her?  When  these  yokels  become  advanced,  there  is  no  limit.  Ozer  was  taking  stock  of  his  life.  Yes,  if  one  denied  God  and  the  Torah,  and  believes  man  has  descended  from  an  ape,  why  shouldn't  one  act  like  an  ape?  And  if  Nesha  is  so  infatuated  with  Mendele  Shmeiser,  what  value  can  he,  Ozer,  have  for  her?  When  Ozer  Mecheles  became  en-  gaged  to  Nesha,  he  assumed  she  was  a  decent  girl.  At  the  engagement  feast,  she  sat  at  the  women's  table  and  he  hardly  caught  a  glimpse  of  her.  He  was   surrounded  by  Chassidim,  scholars,  ye-  shiva  boys.  At  the  wedding,  after  the  virtue  dance,  he  was  led  into  a  dark  bedroom.  He  knew  from  the  Talmud  that  a  girl  ought  to  be  a  virgin,  but  he  didn't  know  how  a  man  could  be  sure.  At  dawn,  the  bride's  attendants  came  to  take  the  sheet,  and  they  danced  a  kosher  dance  outside  the  window.  Later  on,  he  noticed  that  Nesha  was  not  pious.  She  combed  her  hair  on  the  Sabbath  and  soaped  herself.  A  few  times  he  caught  her  drinking  milk  after  she  had  eaten  meat.  She  made  jokes  about  the  ritual  bath,  She  told  him  to  come  to  her  bed  on  the  nights  when  according  to  the  law  it  was     -Joun  BERRYMAN  forbidden.  She  went  to  the  lending  library  and  borrowed  novels  in  Polish  and  Russian.  Ozer  was  pleased  by  this-he  had  an  enlightened  wife.  True,  he  had  never  felt  spiritually  close  to  her.  Ozer  aspired  to  knowl-  edge,  and  she  was  concerned  with  money.  She  envied  her  brother-in-law,  Benie,  because  he  was  established  in  business.  Though  she  received  a  lot  of  jewelry  for  her  wedding,  she  constant-  ly  complained  that  her  sister  had  more.  Nesha  tried  to  persuade  Ozer  that  he  should  ask  for  her  dowry,  start  his  own  business,  and  move  to  a  home  of  their  own  instead  of  boarding  with  her  father.  She  was  always  ordering  new  dresses  and  would  chat  for  hours  with  her  sister  Mirale  about  shoes,  lingerie,  lace,  cakes  and  cookies,  which  both  sis-  ters  baked,  and  about  all  kinds  of  creams  and  perfumes,  which  they  or-  dered  from  [REDACTED],.  A  box  of  chocolates  stood  on  her  bedside  table  and  she  nibbled  them  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  Ozer  was  aware  that  Nesha  did  not  " b"  read  the  books  she  brought  home.  He  tried  many  times  totalk  to  her  about  science  and  philosophy,  but  she  always  interrupted  him-a  friend  would  call  her,  she  had  to  say  something  to  her  mother,  she  had  to  do  some  chore  in  the  kitchen.  Ozer  realized  with  baffie-  ment  that  the  doubts  that  had  tor-  tured  him  from  as  long  as  he  could  re-  member-time,  space,  eternity,  the  problem  of  the  just  who  suffer-did  not  bother  her  at  all.  She  did  not  even  concern  herself  with  death,  about  which  he  had  begun  to  brood  when  he  was  still  in  the  cheder  for  beginners.  Ozer  had  decided  that  this  was  how  woman  is  made-to  indulge  in  petty  things.  In  some  way,  a  woman  was  like  a  child  who  needed  toys.  Well,  but  to  be  dazzled  by  Mendele  Shmeiser  one  had  to  be  a  Mendecle  Shmeiser  oneself.  If  Mendele  Shmeiser  is  all  onecan  gain  from  the  Enlighten-  ment,  then  woe  to  the  Enlightenment.  Ozer  heard  a  snore.  Sonia  had  fallen  asleep.  He  raised  his  eyes  to  the  sky.  He  had  read  the  theory  of  Kant  and  Laplace  that  the  universe  developed  from  anebula.  But  how  can  a  nebula  bring  out  man,  animals,  trees,  grain,  flowers,  eyes,  ears,  abrain?  What  is  the  suffering  and  shame  that  Ozer  felt  now  made  of?  And  since  all  being  is  a  com-  bination  of  atoms,  what  basis  is  there  forthe  words  of  Isaiah,  Lessing,  Men-  delssohn,  Reb  Nachman  Krochmal?  Somewhere  Ozer  Mecheles  had  made  a  false  calculation,  but  where  was  the  error?  Could  he  become  pious  again!  Could  he  believe  that  every  commen-  tary  each  rabbi  has  written  in  each  gen-  eration  was  given  to  Moses  on  Mount  Sinai?  In  what  can  he  believe?  Hate?  Was  it  Mendele's  fault  his  atoms  combined  in  this  way  instead  of  another?  And  how  is  it  Nesha's  fault?  How  can  there  be  talk  of  good  and  evil  if  there  is  no  God,  no  revelation?  Ozer  Mecheles  closed  his  eyes.  He  did  not  sleep,  but  neither  was  he  awake.  A  heaviness  pressed  on  his  heart,  hang-  ing  there  like  a  weight.  He  was  cold,  as  though  it  were  winter,  He  felt  like  a  mourner:  he  had  to  sit  shivah  for  his  own  illusions.  HE  wagon  stopped,  and  with  a  start  Ozer  roused.  Sonia  got  off  without  a  word.  Her  husband,  Feivel,  came  out  of  the  house  in  his  night  robe  and  slippers;  he  was  not  wearing  a  skullcap.  It  was  daybreak.  Ozer  saw  the  silhouette  of  husband  and  wife  em-  bracing,  shaking  silently.  Soon  the  wagon  approached  Gabriel  Danziger's  house.  Ozer  took  down  his  bags.  The  one  with  the  books  was  especially  heavy.  In  his  father-in-law's  house,  everybody  was  asleep.  A  small  " b" kerosene  lamp  glimmered  in  the  kitch-  en.  In  a  coop  behind  the  stove,  chick-  ens  were  clucking.  Ozer  listened.  The  whole  household  snored-his  father-in-  law,  his  mother-in-law,  Nesha.  Ozer  heard  her  sigh.  Verses  from  the  Book  of  Proverbs  came  to  his  mind:  &quot;There  bethree  things  which  are  concealed  from  me,  yea,  four  which  I  know  not:  the  way  of  an  eagle  in  the  air;  the  way  of  a  serpent  upon  a  rock;  the  way  of  a  ship  in  the  midst  of  the  sea;  and  the  way  of  a  man  with  a  maid.&quot;  &quot;Which  forsaketh  the  guide  of  her  youth,  and  forgetteth  the  covenant  of  her  God.&quot;  Ozer  left  his  luggage  in  the  parlor  and  went  outside.  One  half  of  the  sky  was  still  night;  the  other  half  glowed  a  deep  red.  Dew  was  falling  as  though  from  a  sieve.  Birds  were  twittering.  Ozer  moved  like  a  sleepwalker.  His  legs  took  him  to  the  yard  of  the  syna-  gogue.  He  passed  thebarrel  where  the  worshippers  washed  their  hands.  The  water  reflected  the  gold  of  the  sun  breaking  through.  Ozer  entered  the  study  house.  Here  the  night  still  held  sway.  A  single  memorial  candle  spluttered  in  the  me-  norah.  The  pillars  of  the  reading  table  threw  jumping  shadows.  The  tables,  the  bookshelves,  the  candelabra  kept  a  midnight  silence.  Ozer  stopped  and  tried  to  read  the  Ten  Commandments  in  the  dusk,  but  the  letters  were  hid-  den.  &quot;It's  finished,  finished,&quot;  he  mur-  mured,  not  knowing  what  he  meant.  A  weariness  such  as  he  had  never  ex-  perienced  overcame  him.  He  leaned  against  a  stand  in  order  not  to  fall.  He  remembered  that  this  was  the  hour  the  corpses  are  supposed  to  pray  in  the  holy  places,  before  the  first  worshipper  crosses  the  threshold.  Suddenly  a  purple  light  blasted  through  the  windows  and  everything  in  the  study  house  was  illuminated  as  though  from  a  Heavenly  lamp:  the  lectern,  the  benches,  the  stands,  the  lions  on  the  cornice  of  the  Holy  Are  that  were  supporting  the  tablets  with  their  curled  tongues.  Their  beady  eyes  seemed  alive.  Ozer  stood  transfixed.  It  became  clear  as  the  rising  day  to  him  that  the  books  he  had  brought  from  War-  saw  and  the  Command-  mentson  these  tablets  de-  nied  one  another.  If  crea-  tion  was  a  blind  process  and  man  a  beast,  it  was  allowed  to  deceive  Ozer  (or  Fei-  vel),  steal  from  him,  even  kill  him.  Why  didn't  I  un-  derstand  it  before,  he  won-  dered.  He  shuddered  and  his  teeth  rattled.  For  the  first  time  in  years,  he  had  a  desire  to  start  the  morning  with  a  prayer,  but  he  could  not  until  he  had  washed  his  hands.  Ozer  went  outdoors.  In  the  sky,  a  cloud  like  a  fiery  chariot  rode  toward  the  east.  The  windows  of  the  synagogue  shone  and  flick-  ered  as  though  they  had  re-  ceived  tidings  that  they  had  been  waiting  for  since  an-  cient  times.  The  water  in  the  barrel  had  become  greenish,  and  Ozer  saw  his  image  in  it  as  in  amirror:  a  pale  face,  sunken  cheeks,  two  sidelocks  like  hemp,  a  throat  with  a  pointed  Adam's  apple.  He  barely  recognized  himself.  The  worldliness  was  gone.  He  was  again  what  he  had  been  before  his  marriage  to  Nesha-a  poor  scholar  from  [REDACTED],  an  orphan  supported  by  strangers.  He  bent  down  and  dipped  his  fingers  in  the  water.  Powers  stronger  than  man  had  conspired  to  take  everything  from  him  this  night:  his  wife,  his  dowry,  his  lodging.  The  Enlightenment  had  de-  ceived  him;  its  wisdom  was  nothing  but  Satan's  trickery.  Ozer  knew  he  must  again  pack  a  bundle  and  make  his  way  somewhere  to  a  yeshiva.  There  was  one  choice  left  to  him:  Mendele  Shmeiser  or  God.  "