"NE  V  SLETTER  Boarp  MEETING:  HE  last  meeting  of  the  Board  on  Wednesday,  June  10th,  ended  with  a  general  manifestation  of  mutual  respect  and  Christian  fellow-  ship.  Ralph  Hammer,  speaking  for  the  Deacon's  Committee,  said  that  the  Deacons  had  decided  to  withdraw  their  mass  resignation  of  March  18th.  Re-  cent  developments  within  the  church,  he  said,  had  convinced  the  Committee  that  their  action  had  been  precipitous.  He  pointed  out  that  although  the  Dea-  cons  did  not  mind  turning  their  robing  room  over  to  the  new  Ecology  Center,  in  view  of  the  grave  threat  represented  by  the  environment,  they  felt  that  other  apportionments  of  space  within  the  church  had  been,  perhaps,  precipitous.  His  examples  were  the  discotheque  and  the  Encounter  Pool.  However,  he  said  the  Deacons  would  bend  to  the  will  of  the  majority,  in  these  instances.  Ralph  raised  the  question  of  the  audit,  noting  that  the  accountants  had  refused  to  certify  the  last-quarter  accounts  be-  cause  they  were  blurred.  Something  ought  to  be  done  about  this,  he  felt.  Bill  Quantrill,  representing  the  New  Priorities  Committee,  thanked  Ralph  and  all  the  other  Deacons  for  their  valuable  work  in  the  past  and  said  that  some  provision  would  have  to  be  made  for  them  in  the  new  scheme  of  things.  This  would  be  worked  out,  he  said.  The  question  of  thestolen  mailing  list  was  discussed.  Elaine  Berube  said  that  there  was  no  point  in  talking  about  who  could  have  walked  off  with  four  drawers  of  Addressograph  plates  or  for  what  purpose,  and  that  the  thing  to  do  now  was  reestablish  contact  with  the  membership.  It  was  decided  that  every-  one  would  be  asked  to  call  in  their  name,  address,  and  telephone  number,  and  that  this  issue  of  the  Newsletter,  containing  that  emergency  request,  should  be  placed  prominently  in  the  vestibule  and  in  places  in  the  com-  munity,  such  as  laundromats.  So  please  comply!  Margaret  Akin  is  in  charge  of  reconstituting  the  list.  She  will  be  at  695-9445  between  2  and  4  P.M.  daily  for  an  indefinite  period.  The  Board  voted,  19-2,  to  allow  the  Film  Group  to  &quot;fly&quot;  a  screen  in  the  altar  area.  To  &quot;fly&quot;  means  to  hang  the  screen  so  that  it  can  be  pulled  down  during  a  screening,  and  pulled  up  during  regular  services.  There  was  some  debate  as  to  whether  the  screen,  when  in  the  pulled-up  position,  would  be  visible  from  the  sanctuary.  Chris  Robeson,  director  of  the  Film  Group,  said  just  the  bottom  of  it.  The  schedule  of  films  for  August  was  also  announced  (listed  elsewhere  in  the  Newsletter  ).  Three  hundred  and  forty  dollars  was  voted  for  a  new  set  of  drums.  These  will  be  purchased  from  G.  Schir-  mer,  Inc.  Helen  Meadows  pointed  out  that  while  consciousness-raising  and  radi-  calization  have  a  place  in  the  Sunday  services,  we  must  not  forget  continu-  ity.  When  asked  for  examples  of  continuity,  she  suggested  flowers  reg-  ularly,  with  special  attention  to  such  special  occasions  as  Palm  Sunday  and  Easter.  Pierre  Spirot  said  that  flowers  were  not  of  as  much  value  as  situational  experiences.  Meeting  adjourned  at  4:35  p.m.  Auoust  FuicKs:  &amp;C  IzZARDs,&quot;  with  Tanya  Fritz  and  Paul  Capelle,  August  8th,  8  P.M.  &quot;A  Man  and  a  Man&quot;  (Gregory  Ratatouille),  August  11th,  8  p.m.  &quot;I,&quot;  with  Berger  Resthaus,  August  15th,  8  P.M.  &quot;House  of  Chains,&quot;  with  Antonio  Taxi,  August  29th,  8  p.m.  Karare  CuassEs:  NEW  series  of  Karate  Classes  will  begin  on  Monday,  July  20th,  under  the  direction  of  Patti-Lee  Ivens,  a  Black  Belt.  They  will  be  held  in  the  Bell  Tower.  Bara  ManEEsH:  asa  ManEEsH,  formerly  Theo-  dore  Lily,  Ph.D.,  will  lecture  on  &quot;Transcendental  Meditation&quot;  Thurs-  day,  July  16th,  at  8  p.m.  His  subtitle  23  is  &quot;Improving  Our  Emotions.&quot;  There  will  be  a  50\xc2\xa2  contribution.  CENTERS:  HE  Astrology-  Telepathy  Center,  the  Third  World  Center,  the  Dance  Center,  and  the  Center  for  the  Study  of  Ecstasy  have  been  discon-  tinued.  Their  rooms  will  be  assigned  to  new  projects  as  new  needs  are  felt.  REparRs:  HE  contractor  fixing  things  up  after  the  fire  reports  that  extensive  water  damage  presents  problems.  The  building  is  structurally  sound,  he  said,  and  the  load-bearing  walls  weakened  by  the  explosion  have  been  shored  up.  The  work  is  running  well  ahead  of  estimates,  he  stated.  The  new  En-  counter  Pool  is  already  installed.  It  is,  as  previously  noted  here,  big  enough  for  eight.  A  schedule  of  hours  for  the  Encounter  Pool  will  be  posted  as  soon  as  the  water  heater  is  connected.  MiniIsTER:  UR  minister,  Ripley  Bligh,  is  con-  tinuing  his  leave  of  absence.  He  is  back  in  town  and  looking  for  a  small  apartment  in  the  neighborhood.  Orsan:  NYONE  having  any  information  as  to  the  whereabouts  of  the  organ,  which  has  been  missing  from  the  choir  loft  since  about  May  1st,  please  contact  Bill  Quantrill.  He  promises  no  prosecution  or  recriminations  of  any  kind  and  says  that  the  organ  is  needed  sothat  we  can  continue  to  go  forward  on  an  even  keel  in  the  spirit  of  love  and  Christian  fellowship.  Peace! "