"30  THE  ORPHANED  SWIMMING  POOL  ARRIAGES,  like  chemical  un-  M  ions,  release  upon  dissolution  packets  of  the  energy  locked  up  in  their  bonding.  There  is  the  piano  no  one  wants,  the  cocker  spaniel  no  one  can  take  care  of.  Shelves  of  books  suddenly  stand  revealed  as  burden-  somely  dated  and  unlikely  to  be  reread;  indeed,  itis  difficult  to  remember  who  read  them  in  the  first  place.  And  what  of  those  old  skis  in  the  attic?  Or  the  doll  house  waiting  to  berepaired  in  the  basement?  The  piano  goes  out  of  tune,  the  dog  goes  mad.  The  summer  that  the  Turners  got  their  divorce,  their  swimming  pool  had  neither  a  master  nor  a  mistress,  though  the  sun  beat  down  day  after  day,  and  a  state  of  drought  was  declared  in  Connecti-  cut.  It  was  a  young  pool,  only  two  years  old,  of  the  fragile  type  fashioned  by  laying  a  plastic  liner  within  a  care-  fully  carved  hole  in  the  ground.  The  Turners'  side  yard  looked  infernal  while  it  was  being  done;  one  bulldozer  sank  into  the  mud  and  had  to  be  pulled  free  by  another.  But  by  mid-  summer  the  new  grass  was  sprouting,  the  encircling  flagstones  were  in  place,  the  blue  plastic  tinted  the  water  a  heavenly  blue,  and  it  had  to  be  ad-  mitted  that  the  Turners  had  scored  again.  They  were  always  a  little  in  ad-  vance  of  their  friends.  He  was  a  tall,  hairy-backed  man  with  long  arms,  and  a  nose  flattened  by  football,  and  a  sul-  len  look  of  too  much  blood;  she  was  a  fine-boned  blonde  with  dry  blueeyes  and  lips  usually  held  parted  and  crin-  kled  as  if  about  to  aska  worrisome,  or  whimsical,  question.  They  never     wow-  s  ns  eas  seemed  happier,  nor  their  marriage  healthier,  than  those  two  summers.  They  grew  brown  and  supple  and  smooth  with  swimming.  Ted  would  begin  his  day  with  a  swim,  before  dress-  ing  to  catch  the  train,  and  Lindawould  hold  court  all  day  amid  crowds  of  wet  matrons.  and  children,  and  Ted  would  return  from  work  to  find  a  poolside  cocktail  party  in  progress,  and  the  cou-  ple  would  end  their  day  at  midnight,  when  their  friends  had  finally  left,  by  swimming  nude,  before  bed.  What  ec-  stasy!  In  darkness  the  water  felt  mild  as  milk  and  buoyant  as  helium,  and  the  swimmers  became  giants,  gliding  from  side  to  sidein  a  single  languorous  stroke.  The  next  May,  the  pool  was  filled  as  usual,  and  the  usual  after-school  gangs  of  mothers  and  children  gath-  ered,  but  Linda,  unlike  her,  stayed  in-  doors.  She  could  be  heard  within  the  house,  moving  from  room  to  room,  but  she  no  longer  emerged,  as  in  the  other  summers,  with  a  cheerful  tray  of  ice  and  a  brace  of  bottles,  and  Triscuits  and  lemonade  for  the  children.  Their  friends  felt  less  comfortable  about  ap-  pearing,  towels  in  hand,  at  the  Turners  on  weekends.  Though  Linda  had  lost  some  weight  and  looked  elegant,  and  Ted  was  cumbersomely  jovial,  they  gave  off  the  faint,  sleepless,  awkward-  making  aroma  of  a  couple  in  trouble.  Then,  the  day  after  school  was  out,  Linda  fled  with  the  children  to  her  parents  in  [REDACTED].  Ted  stayed  nights  in  the  city,  and  the  pool  was  deserted.  Though  the  pump  that  ran  the  water  through  the  filter  continued  to  mutter  in  the  lilacs,  the  cerulean  pool  grew     JUNE  27,  1970  cloudy.  The  bodies  of  dead  horseflies  and  wasps  dotted  the  still  surface.  A  speckled  plastic  ball  drifted  into  a  cor-  ner  beside  the  diving  board  and  stayed  there.  The  grass  between  the  flagstones  grew  lank.  On  the  glass-topped  pool-  sidetable,  a  spray  can  of  Off!  had  lost  its  pressure  and  a  gin-and-tonic  glass  held  a  sere  mint  leaf.  The  pool  looked  desolate  and  haunted,  like  a  stagnant  jungle  spring;  it  looked  poisonous  and  ashamed.  'The  postman,  stuffing  over-  due  notices  and  pornography  solicita-  tions  into  the  mailbox,  averted  his  eyes  from  the  side  yard  politely.  Some  June  weekends,  Ted  sneaked  out  from  the  city.  Families  driving  to  church  glimpsed  him  dolefully  sprin-  kling  chemical  substances  into  the  pool.  He  looked  pale  and  thin.  He  instruct,  ed  Roscoe  Chace,  his  neighbor  on  the  left,  how  to  switch  on  the  pump  and  change  the  filter,  and  how  much  chlo-  rine  and  Algitrol  should  be  added  weekly.  He  explained  he  would  not  be  able  to  make  it  out  every  weekend-  as  if  the  distance  thatfor  vears  he  had  travelled  twice  each  day  had  become  an  impossibly  steep  climb  back  into  the  past.  Linda,  he  confided  vaguely,  had  left  her  parents  in  Akron  and  was  visiting  her  sister  in  [REDACTED].  As  the  shock  of  the  Turners'  joint  disappearance  wore  off,  their  pool  seemed  less  haunt-  ed  and  forbidding.  The  Murtaugh  children-the  Murtaughs,  a  rowdy,  numerous  family,  were  the  Turners  right-hand  neighbors-began  to  use  it,  without  supervision.  So  Linda's  old  friends,  with  their  children,  began  to  show  up,  &quot;to  keep  the  Murtaughs  from  drowning  each  other.&quot;  For  if  anything  were  to  happen  to  a  Murtaugh,  the  poor  Turners  (the  adjective  had  be-  come  automatic  )  would  be  sued  for  everything,  right  when  they  could  least  afford  it.  It  be-  came,  then,  a  kind  of  duty,  a  test  of  loyalty,  to  use  the  pool.  July  was  the  hottest  in  twenty-seven  years.  People  brought  their  own  lawn  furniture  over  in  station  wagons  and  set  it  up.  Teen-  age  offspring  and  Swiss  au-pair  girls  were  established  as  life-  guards.  A  nylon  rope  with  flotation  corks,  meant  to  divide  the  wading  end  from  the  diving  end  of  the  pool,  was  found  coiled  in  the  garage  and  reinstalled.  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  [REDACTED]  Kleefield  con-  tributed  an  old  refrig-  erator,  which  was  wired  to  an  outlet  above  Ted's  basement  workbench  and  used  to  store  ice,  quinine  wa-  ter,  and  soft  drinks.  An  honor-system  shoebox  containing  change  ap-  peared  beside  it;  a  little  lost-and-found-an  ar-  ray  of  forgotten  sun-  glasses,  flippers,  towels,  lotions,  paperbacks,  shirts,  even  under-  wear-materialized  on  the  Turners  side  steps.  When  people,  that  July,  said,  &quot;Meet  you  at  the  pool,&quot;  they  did  not  mean  the  public  _  pool  pastthe  shopping  center,  or  the  country-  club  pool  beside  the  first  tee.  They  meant  the  Turners'.  Restric-  tions  on  admission  were  difficult  to  enforce  tact-  fully.  A  visiting  Meth-  odist  bishop,  two  Tai-  wanese  economists,  an  entire  girls'  softball  team  from  Darien,  an  eminent  Canadian  poet,  the  archery  champion  of  [REDACTED],  the  six  members  of  a  black  rock  group  called  The  Good  Intentions,  an  ex-mistress  of  Aly  Khan,  the  lavender-  haired  mother-in-law  of  a  Nixon  adviser  not  quite  of  Cabinet  rank,  an  infant  of  six  weeks,  a  man  who  was  killed  the  next  day  on  the  Merritt  Parkway,  a  Filipino  who  could  stay  on  the  pool  bottom  for  eighty  sec-  onds,  two  Texans  who  kept  cigars  in  their  mouths  and  hats  on  their  heads,  three  telephone  linemen,  four  ex-  patriate  Czechs,  a  student  Maoist  from  Wesleyan,  and  the  postman  all  swam,  as  guests,  in  the  Turners'  pool,  though  not  all  at  once.  After  the  day-  time  crowd  ebbed,  and  the  shoebox  was  put  back  into  the  refrigerator,  and  the  last  auw-pair  girl  took  the  last  goosefleshed,  wrinkled  child  shiver-  ing  home  to  supper,  there  was  a  tide  of  evening  activity,  trysts  (Mrs.  Klee-  field  and  the  Nicholson  boy,  most  notoriously)  and  what  some  called,  overdramatically,  orgies.  True,  late  splashes  and  excited  guffaws  did  often  31   keep  Mrs.  Chace  awake,  and  the  Mur-  taugh  children  spent  hours  at  their  attic  window  with  binoculars.  And  there  was  the  evidence  of  the  lost  un-  derwear.  One  Saturday  early  in  August,  the  morning  arrivals  found  an  unknown  car  with  New  York  plates  parked  in  the  garage.  But  cars  of  all  sorts  were  so  common-the  parking  tangle  fre-  quently  extended  into  the  road-that  nothing  much  was  thought  of  it,  even  when  someone  noticed  that  the  bed-  room  windows  upstairs  were  open.  And  nothing  came  of  it,  except  that  around  suppertime,  in  the  lull  before  the  evening  crowd  began  to  arrive  in  force,  Ted  and  an  unknown  woman,  of  the  same  physical  type  as  Linda  but  brunette,  swiftly  exited  from  the  kitchen  door,  got  into  the  car,  and  drove  back  to  New  York.  The  few  lingering  babysitters  and  beaux  thus  unwittingly  glimpsed  the  root  of  the  divorce.  The  two  lovers  had  been  trapped  inside  the  house  all  day;  Ted  was  fearful  of  the  legal  consequences  of  their  being  seen  by  someone  who  might  write  and  tell  Linda.  The  set-  tlement  was  at  a  ticklish  stage;  noth-  ing  less  than  terror  of  Linda's  lawyers  would  have  led  Ted  to  suppress  his  indignation  at  seeing,  from  behind  the  window  screen,  his  private  pool  turned  into  a  public  carnival.  For  long  there-  after,  though  in  the  end  he  did  not  marry  the  woman,  he  remembered  that  day  when  they  lived  together  like  fugitives  in  a  cave,  feeding  on  love  and  ice  water,  tiptocing  barefoot  to  the  de-  " b"pleted  cupboards,  which  they,  arriving  late  last  night,  had  hoped  to  stock  in  the  morning,  not  foreseeing  the  on-  slaught  of  interlopers  that  would  pin  them  in.  Her  hair,  he  remembered,  had  tickled  his  shoulders  as  she  crouched  behind  him  at  the  window,  and  through  the  angry  pounding  of  his  own  bloodhe  had  felt  her  slim  body  breathless  with  the  attempt  not  to  gig-  gle.  August  drew  in,  with  cloudy  days.  Children  grew  bored  with  swimming.  Roscoe  Chace  went  on  vacation  to  4974616c79;  the  pump  broke  down,  and  no  one  repaired  it.  Dead  dragonflies  ac-  cumulated  on  the  surface  of  the  pool.  Small  deluded  toads  hopped  in  and   swam  around  and-  around  hopelessly.  Linda  at  last  returned.  From  Minne-  apolis  she  had  gone  on  to  Idaho  for  six  weeks,  to  be  divorced.  She  and  the  children  had  burnt  faces  from  riding  and  hiking;  her  lips  looked  drier  and  more  quizzical  than  ever,  still  seeking  to  frame  that  troubling  question.  She  stood  at  the  window,  in  the  house  that  already  seemed  to  lack  its  furniture,  at  the  same  side  window  where  the  lovers  had  crouched,  and  gazed  at  the  deserted  pool.  The  grass  around  it  was  green  from  splashing,  save  where  a  long-lying  towel  had  smothered  a  rec-  tangle  and  left  it  brown.  Aluminum  furniture  shedidn't  recognize  lay  strewn  and  broken.  She  counted  a  o  dozen  bottles  beneath  the  glass-topped  table.  The  nylon  divider  had  parted,  and  its  two  halves  floated  independent-  ly.  The  blue  plastic  beneath  the  color-  less  water  tried  to  make  a  cheerful,  otherworldly  statement,  but  Linda  saw  thatthe  pool  in  truth  had  no  bottom,  it  held  bottomless  loss,  it  was  one  huge  blue  tear.  Thank  God  no  one  had  drowned  in  it,  except  her.  She  saw  that  she  could  never  live  here  again.  In  September  the  place  was  sold,  to  a  family  with  toddling  infants,  who  for  safety's  sake  have  not  only  drained  the  pool  but  have  sealed  it  over  with  iron  pipes  and  a  heavy  mesh,  and  put  warn-  ing  signs  around,  as  around  a  chained  dog.  "