VHO  STOLE  MY  GOLDEN  UNDIE  S2  ,  I  AHUMBS  hooked  into  my  waist,  coat  and  feet  squarely  planted  on  the  hearth,  a  sensation  of  utter  beatitude  flooding  me  from  crown  to  toe,  I  stood  in  my  new  sublet  at  61  Brasenose  Mews  in  Mayfair  that  sunny  autumn  morning,  a  man  at  ease  in  Zion.  Every  detail  fitted  my  precon-  ception  of  the  ideal  flat  for  a  three  months'  sojourn  in  [REDACTED]-the  snug  living  room,  with  its  Adam  mantelpiece  and  well-polished  brass,  the  delicate  mahogany  oval  of  the  dining  table,  the  tasteful  mirrors,  the  sparkling  rows  of  glassware  in  the  closet  bar.  What  if  the  tangerine  lampshades  and  silver  up-  holstery  were  early  Evelyn  [REDACTED],  what  if  floral  wallpaper  had  run  riot  in  the  bedrooms  and  the  telephone  lurked  under  a  hoopskirted  [REDACTED]-china  shepherdess?  It  all  evoked  a  certain  nostalgia,  as  though  Basil  Seal  and  Brenda  Last  and  Lady  Metroland  had  circulated  through  these  rooms  and  might  be  reincarnated  at  the  parties  I  foresaw.  Even  Leatherby's,  Ltd.,  the  sales  garage  below  that  trafficked  in  opulent  second-hand  motors,  struck  the  proper  jaunty  note,  and,  if  further  cachet  were  needed,  my  windows  over-  looked  the  rear  entrance  of  Annabel's,  the  playground  of  the  overprivileged.  Yes,  one  might  well  preen  himself  at  finding  such  a  jewel,  I  reflected,  think-  ing  back  on  the  rookeries  I  had  can-  vassed  in  my  search  for  a  pied-a-terre.  There  was  the  basement  den  off  the  FulhamRoad  tenanted  by  two  Picas-  soesque  giantesses  in  nightgowns  who  kept  drunkenly  beseeching  me,  amid  a  reek  of  fish-and-chips,  to  applaud  the  shadow  box  they  had  evolved  from  an  orange  crate.  There  was  the  sixth-floor  acrie  in  Swiss  Cottage  Road,  where  a  mad  Rumanian  graphologist  resembling  Zip  the  Dog-Faced  Boy  offered  me  a  free  handwriting  analysis  along  with  the  lease.  And  the  Primrose  Hill  bed-  sitter,  whose  landlady  admitted  in  a  burst  of  candor  that  her  garden  was  frequently  invaded  by  coypus,  large  [REDACTED]  American  aquatic  rats  from  the  Regent's  Park  Zoo  nearby.  Serene  as  my  occupancy  of  Brase-  nose  Mews  had  been  thus  far,  though,  the  truth  was  that  one  irritating  domestic  complication  had  arisen-the  refusal  of  every  laundry  Idealt  with  to  collect  and  return  my  linen  at  a  defi-  nite,  fixed  time.  Inexplicably,  almost  as  if  they  feared  prosecution  under  the  Official  Secrets  Act,  they  all  persisted  in  a  tight-lipped  silence  about  their  schedules.  Time  and  again,  I  wasted  entire  mornings  waiting  for  vans  that  failed  to  materialize,  fretting  myself  into  a  lather  that  seriously  endangered  my  blood  pressure.  Even  when  I  man-  aged  to  reach  someone  in  authority--  usually  a  female  of  awesome  refine-    ment-and  to  protest  this  enslavement  to  a  driver's  whim,  I  was  met  with  the  same  silken  answer.  &quot;But  surely  you've  staff  there  to  cope  with  such  de-  tails?&quot;  she  would  rejoin.  &quot;How  curi-  ous!  All  the  previous  tenants  at  Sixty-  one  employed  staff  Pouncefoot,  Viscountess  Bulstrode,  Ian  Murrain  of  That  Ilk,  the  Graf  Fro-  benius  zu  Strabismus.  Well,  inthat  case,  I'm  afraid  we  can't  accept  you  as  a  client  any  further.  So  sorry.&quot;  At  last,  through  the  intercession  of  friends  to  whom  my  grievance  was  as-  suming  the  proportions  of  paranoia,  I  was  put  in  touch  with  an  establishment  that  promised  heartsease.  Not  only  was  Hackamore's  in  Kentish  Town  prompt  and  civil  in  handling  my  appli-  cation  but  the  leaflet  enclosed  in  their  initial  delivery  bespoke  a  desire  to  co-  operate  to  the  fullest.  &quot;For  the  conven-  ience  of  certain  customers,&quot;  declared  the  text,  &quot;laundry  is  sometimes  collected  from  and  delivered  to  a  prearranged  place  outside  the  security  of  the  cus-  tomer's  home.&quot;  The  words  lifted  a  weight  from  my  spirit.  Here  was  the  per-  fect  solution  to  my  dilemma-a  bunk  or  hideout  known  only  to  the  two  of  us,  where  I  could  deposit  or  withdraw  sens  peur  et  sans  reproche.  I  fumbled  the  phone  out  of  the  [REDACTED]-china  shep-  herdess,  asked  for  the  manager,  and  found  him  completely  sympathetic.  &quot;I  see  from  your  sponsor's  letter  that  you  enjoy  guest  privileges  at  the  Garrick  Club,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Would  you  con-  sider  entrusting  your  bundle  to  the  hall  porter  there?&quot;  A  presentiment  of  my-  self  for  all  the  world  like  a  Chagall  peddle:  airborne  over  the  por-  tals  of  the  Garrick  with  a  sackful  of  wash  arose  before  me,  and  I  demurred  strongly.  &quot;Quite,  quite,&quot;  he  ac-  knowledged.  &quot;Then  how  about  some  trades-  man's  in  your  vicin-  ity?  This  bookshop  in  Curzon  Street,  where  you've  had  an  account  for  years?&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  entirely  out  of  the  question,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Mr.  Buchanan's  a  dear  man,  but  I  couldn't  ask  a  biblio-  phile  to  keep  track  of  my  shirts.  I  mean,  it  would  be  like  asking  a  shirtmaker  to-to  look  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  after  my  bibelots,&quot;  I  finished  lamely.  &quot;Yes,  that  would  be  hard  cheese,&quot;  he  agreed.  &quot;I  say,  what's  wrong  with  using  the  car  deal-  ers  underneath  your  flat-Leatherby's?&quot;  Frankly,  it  was  an  inspiration,  and  the  garage's  response  when  I  asked  their  typist  if  I  might  impose  on  them  was  unhesitating:  they'd  bedelighted  to  accom-  modate  me.  The  sys-  tem  worked  flawlessly,  beyond  my  wildest  ex-  pectations.  Every  Mon-  day,  ulcer-free  and  cool  as  a  cucumber,  I  saun-  tered  unhurriedly  downstairs  with  my  laundry  box,  and  every  Friday  there  it  lay  awaiting  me-col-  lars  wrinkled,  buttons  ground  to  pow-  der,  and  shirtsleeves  in  ribbons.  But  such  trifles  were  as  thistledown-the  vital,  the  paramount,  thing  was  that  I  was  liberated,  out  of  bondage,  free  to  come  and  go  as  I  chose.  Or  so  I  fatuously  thought  until  the  October  afternoon  I  was  packing  my  bag  for  a  weekend  in  Northampton-  shire.  In  the  rush  of  several  earlier  ap-  pointments,  I  had  neglected  to  pick  up  Hackamore's  box  from  the  garage,  and  since  I  acutely  needed  a  couple  of  dress  shirts,  I  hastened  down  to  retrieve  it.  To  my  dismay,  the  sole  person  visible  was  a  spotty  youth  polishing  a  drop-  head  Bentley  coup\xc3\xa9,  who  revealed  that  the  typist  had  gone  off  to  [REDACTED]  with  her  chum  that  morning  and  that  he  himself  had  seen  no  box  such  as  I  de-  scribed.  However,  he  added,  maybe  Mr.  Satchmole,  their  salesman,  who  was  out  demonstrating  a  Lamborghini  at  the  moment,  could  enlighten  me  on  his  return.  I  began  to  feel  the  old  fa-  miliar  churning  in  the  tripes,  the  con-  striction  that  portended  trouble,  and  quickly  rang  up  Hackamore's  in  Ken-  tish  Town.  The  manager,  regrettably,  had  left  for  [REDACTED]  that  morning,  also  with  a  chum,  and  inasmuch  as  he  hadn't  confided  our  secret  arrangement  to  his  deputy,  the  latter  was  powerless  to  aid  me.  He  suggested,  though,  that  if  I  could  wait  until  the  drivers  got  back  to  the  plant  at  nightfall  .  ..  &quot;Nightfall!  Nightfall!&quot;  I  shouted  into  the  receiver.  &quot;Don't  you  realize,  you  dunderhead,  that  I'm  trying  to  catch  the  four-fifteen  to  Birchstone?  How  can  I  if  you  don't  find  my  night-  shirts?&quot;     31       he  repeated,  mysti-  fied.  &quot;But  you  said  before  they  were  white  shirts-stiff-bosomed  ones.  Could  you  give  me  the  ticket  number  again?&quot;  Fortunately,  at  that  juncture  Mr.  Satchmole  bounced  into  the  garage-  a  pudgy,  effusive  citizen  with  an  air  of  false  cheer.  My  laundry  box  had  indeed  arrived,  just  as  he  was  depart-  ing  with  his  client,  and  he  had  cannily  placed  it  in  the  boot  of  the  Lam-  borghini  for  safekeeping.  With  an  up-  rush  of  elation,  I  wheeled  about  to  reclaim  it,  but  he  caught  my  arm.  There  was  a  slight  hitch,  he  stam-  mered;  the  fact  was,  Mr.  Rowbot-  tom  had  taken  the  car  home  to  Bishop's  Stortford  for  a  weekend  trial.  An  anguished  sob  burst  from  my  throat.  &quot;Of  all  the  fatheaded,  idi-  otic-&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  know,&quot;  he  blubbered.  &quot;I  remembered  the  box  too  late,  after  he'd  driven  off.  But  I'll  call  him  straight-  away-we'll  have  it  back  safe  and  sound  Monday,  never  fear.  He's  a  splendid  gentleman,  is  Mr.  Rowhot-  tom-a  Hebrew,  I  think,  but  straight  as  a  die-&quot;  I  ignored  his  panegyrics  and  thought  furiously.  Bishop's  Stortford  was  on  the  northern  line,  midway  to  Birchstone,  my  destination.  It  was  quite  conceiva-  ble  that  one  could  stop  there,  pick  up  the  laundry,  and  catch  a  later  train  onward.  Hastily  jotting  down  Row-  bottom's  address,  I  ran  upstairs  for  my  bag,  sped  through  the  maze  of  streets  to  the  tube  station  at  Green  Park,  and  reached  Liverpool  Street,  streaming  with  perspiration,  in  the  nick  of  time  forthe  four-fifteen.  Needless  to  say,  nothing  resembling  a  cab  was  visible  at  Bishop's  Stortford,  but  my  fevered  supplication  to  an  of-  ficial  at  last  produced  an  old  party,  clearly  afflicted  with  St.  Vitus's  dance,  who  undertook  to  ferry  me  to  Row-  bottom's,  eleven  miles  distant.  Mon  Repos,  his  Elizabethan  brick  cottage,  nestled  in  a  lofty  beech  copse  well  off  the  main  road,  and,  judging  from  the  array  of  cars  ranged  outside,  some  sort  of  bash  was  in  progress.  The  but-  ler  who  commandeered  my  bag  pro-  pelled  me  into  a  smoky,  low-ceilinged  room  where  two  dozen  guests  were  noisily  congregated,  pressed  a  Martini  into  my  hand,  and  vanished  before  I  could  explain  myself.  Deafened  by  the  tumult,  I  wove  through  the  crush,  vainly  trying  to  elicit  the  whereabouts  of  the  host.  None  of  the  folkI  questioned-a  leggy  young  model  in  fringed  buckskin,  a  gaitered  divine  redolent  of  Courvoisier,  and  a  willowy  pouf  sporting  a  monocle-appeared  to  have  heard  of  him.  Each  of  them,  however,  was  insistent  on  replenishing  my  glass,  and  when  a  large,  bland  individual  on  the  order  of  Godfrey  Tearle  approached  and  identified  him-  self  as  the  person  I  sought,  I  could  sense  that  my  enunciation  had  lost  its  usual  clarity.  For  the  life  of  me,  I  was  un-  able  to  fit  Leatherby  and  Lamborghini  into  the  same  sentence.  &quot;Suppose  we  continue  this  in  my  study,&quot;  he  said,  guiding  me  into  an  adjoining  chamber,.  &quot;Now  then,  sir,  what  the  devil  is  the  meaning  of  this  intrusion?  Exactly  who  are  you?&quot;  My  head  had  cleared  and  I  could  not  repress  a  smile  at  the  fellow's  coolness.  &quot;Let's  not  bandy  words,  Row-  bottom.  Are  you  the  chap  to  whom  " b" .  &quot;  Leatherby's  in  Brasenose  Mews  loaned  a  certain  Italian  sports  car  early  this  afternoon?&quot;  &quot;Why  is  that  any  business  of  yours?&quot;  he  snapped.  &quot;Because  along  with  the  car  you  took  something  else-something  that  concerns  me  intimately,&quot;  I  threw  at  him.  &quot;In  fact,  I  suggest  to  you  that  it  was  my  fibre  box  in  the  boot  you  were  bent  on  acquiring  rather  than  the  Lamborghini.&quot;  &quot;Have  acare,  laddie.&quot;  The  corners  of  his  mouth  twitched  in  a  manner  that  boded  ill.  &quot;You're  quite  positive  I'm  the  cove  you  had  in  mind?&quot;  &quot;'There's  one  way  to  prove  it,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;The  man  I'm  looking  for  lacks  the  third  fingertip  of  his  left  hand.&quot;  His  smile  became  catlike.  &quot;You  mean  like  this?&quot;  he  asked,  and  held  up  a  finger  with  the  tip  missing.  &quot;Precisely,&quot;  I  said,  and  paused,  the  better  to  marshal  the  charge  I  was  preparing  to  launch.  &quot;Tell  me,  Row-  bottom,  have  you  ever  heard  of  an  organization  called  the  Thirty-nine  Gyps-a  worldwide  conspiracy  aimed  at  the  confusion  and  overthrow  of  everyone's  sanity  by  deliberately  mis-  placing  his  laundry?&quot;  Had  I  dreamt  that  a  man  of  his  girth  could  move  so  swiftly,  I  daresay  I  might  have  sidestepped  his  onslaught,  but  it  came  too  suddenly.  The  blow  he  loosed  at  me  would  have  felled  an  ox;  luckily,  it  struck  the  breast  pocket  in  which  I  was  carrying  Hackamore's  leaflet  describing  their  types  of  service,  so  that  its  force  was  minimized.  The  split  second  Rowbottom  needed  tore-  cover  h's  balance  proved  my  salvation.  Thrusting  a  chair  into  his  path,  I  sprang  past  him,  wrenched  open  the  French  windows,  and  dove  headlong  into  the  shrubbery.  As  I  scrambled  through  the  great  beeches  encircling  the  house,  I  heard  excited  voices  from  within,  a  hue  and  cry  in  the  court-  yard,  and  engines  revving  up  to  give  pursuit.  I  doubled  back,  veered  off  at  a  right  angle,  and,  after  slogging  through  interminable  fens,  fetched  up  muddied  and  breathless  at  a  secluded  inn.  From  which,  thanks  to  a  five-pound  note  dis-  creetly  slipped  to  the  publican,  I  was  enabled  to  proceed  in  the  sidecar  of  his  son's  motorcycle  to  Bishop's  Stort-  ford,  and  thence,  belatedly,  to  North-  amptonshire.  Frankly,  there  were  those  among  the  company  that  weekend  who  be-  trayed  some  skepticism  at  my  account  of  the  cabal  I  had  unearthed.  I  did  not  altogether  blame  them;  in  a  Mod  dinner  jacket  two  sizes  too  large  for  me,  worn  over  a  Chimmie  Fadden  gooseneck  sweater,  I  was  not  afigure  to  inspire  confidence.  In  fact,  by  the  following  midweek  I  myself  had  be-  gun  to  succumb  to  doubts,  when  the  scarehead  &quot;EXCLUSIVE  LAUNDRY  IX  ASHES&quot;  leaped  out  at  me  from  my  morning  paper.  The  particulars  were  brief,  their  significance  unmistakable.  The  night  before,  a  fire  of  mysterious  origin  had  gutted  Hackamore's  in  Kentish  Town,  holder  of  royal  patents  innumerable,  destroying  quantities  of  aristocratic  linen  along  with  all  the  firm's  records.  I  permitted  myself  a  grim  chuckle.  So  Rowbottom  and  his  confederates  had  gone  to  this  extremity  to  cover  their  tracks,  I  mused.  Or  pos-  sibly  the  entire  story  was  a  fabrica-  tion-perhaps  they  had  printed  just  one  copy  of  the  newspaper,  hoping  to  lull  me  into  a  false  security.  Well,  what-  ever  the  case,  the  skirmish  had  taught  me  another  invaluable  lesson  about  the  forces  pitted  against  an  American  and  his  laundry.  I  emptied  the  contents  of  my  hamper  into  the  bathtub,  drenched  them  with  Albion,  the  foamier,  more  perfidious  detergent,  and  rolled  up  my  sleeves, "