"TILL  IT  BE  S  everybody  knows,  the  &quot;Huntley-  A  Brinkley  Report&quot;  will  soon  be  no  more.  Chet  Huntley  is  re-  tiring  to  [REDACTED],  and  N.B.C.  has  chosen  John  Chancellor  and  Frank  McGee  to  take  his  place.  The  burning  issue  about  the  new  N.B.C.  evening-  news  format  is  not  how  well  these  veteran  reporters  will  handle  their  new  assignments  but  who  will  say  good  night  to  whom  when  the  program  ends.  For  years  now,  the  Huntley-Brinkley  trademark  was  their  effortless  and  ele-  gant  farewell  at  the  end  of  the  thirty-  minute  show.  It  was  simply  &quot;Good  night,  Chet&quot;  and  &quot;Good  night,  David.  And  good  night  from  N.B.C.  News.&quot;  Come  August,  however,  there  will  bea  triumvirate,  and  itis  already  possibleto  see  that  it  may  be  much  more  difficult  for  three  people  to  get  off  the  air  than  it  was  for  two.  Consider:  BrinkuiEy:  Good  night,  Frank.  McGEez\xc2\xae:  Good  night,  John.  CHancELLOR:  Good  night,  Frank.  And  good  night  from  N.B.C.  News.  At  first  glance,  this  seems  to  be  a  fair  and  even  distribution  of  &quot;good  night&quot;s.  Each  member  of  the  team  has  been  heard  from  and  has  had  a  chance  to  say  good  night  to  one  of  his  as-  sociates.  But  it  should  be  noted  that  neither  of  the  junior  members  of  the  team  had  the  decency  to  say  good  night  to  the  senior  man,  David  Brinkley,  who  practically  invented  the  phrase.  A  revised  set  of  farewells  will  have  to  be  worked  out,  so  that  the  elder  states-  man  will  not  be  passed  over.  Possibly:  BrinkuiEy:  Good  night,  Frank.  Good  night,  David.  And  good  night  to  you,  too,  John.  Good  night,  Frank.  And  good  night  from  N.B.C.  News.  McGee:  John!  CHAaAnNcELLOR:  Yes,  Frank.  McGErE:  John,  you  forgot  to  say  good  night  to  David.  CmancError:  Why  should  I  say  good  night  to  him?  He  never  says  good  night  to  me.  Don't  bea  spoilsport,  John.  Damn!  Well,  if  I  have  to,  I  have  to.  Good  night,  David.  And  good  night  again  from  N.B.C.  News.  An  improvement,  perhaps,  but  it  should  be  noted  that  both  Brinkley  and  McGee  were  the  recipients  of  two  hearty  farewells  but  poor  John  Chan-  cellor  rated  only  one.  This  could  be  handled  by  rotating  the  last  man  from  one  evening  to  the  next,  so  that  all  three  would  receive  the  same  total  of  &quot;good  MORROYV  night's  every  three  evenings  (five),  but  this  would  require  pretty  careful  score-  keeping,  and  possibly  a  future  weight-  ing  of  Nielsen  ratings  for  each  night  of  the  week  to  make  sure  that  each  man  received  the  same  total  of  &quot;good  night's  per  listener.  No,  let's  try  again:  BrinkiEy:  Frank,  will  you  tell  John  good  night  for  me?  McGEE:  I  sure  will,  David.  John,  David  said  good  night.  CmancError:  Thanks,  Frank.  And  will  you  say  good  night  to  David  for  me?  McGEe:  Sure  thing,  John.  David,  guess  what?  John  said  to  say  good  night  to  you.  BrinkuEy:  He  wd!  Gosh,  thanks,  Frank.  The  only  trouble  with  this  sweet  parting  is  that  nobody  said  good  night  to  Frank.  Also,  N.B.C.  missed  out  on  its  farewell.  In  the  final  analysis,  the  only  possible  solution  for  N.B.C.  is  to  extend  the  program  to  a  full  hour.  That  way,  there  will  be  plenty  of  time  for  everybody  to  say  good  night  to  everybody  else:  BrinkriEy:  Good  night,  Frank.     29  Good  night,  John.  And  good  night  from  N.B.C.  News.  McGrE:  Good  night,  John.  Good  night  from  N.B.C.  News.  And  good  night,  David.  CHANCELLOR:  Good  night,  Frank.  Good-  BrinkiEy:  John,  may  I  interrupt?  CmancError:  Sure,  David.  Any  time.  BrinkuEy:  I  want  to  address  this  to  Frank.  Frank,  when  you  said  good  night  just  now,  I  realized  it  was  pos-  sible  for  John  to  interpret  your  sign-  off  to  mean  that  N.B.C.  was  saying  good  night  to  him  but  that  perhaps  you  weren't.  McGee:  Goodness,  David,  nothing  was  farther  from  my  mind!  I'm  ter-  ribly  sorry,  John.  Can  I  try  again?  CHANCELLOR:  Oh,  sure.  Take  your  time,  Frank.  McGEE:  Hmm.  Let's  see.  How's  this?  Good  night,  John  and  David.  Good  night  from  me.  And  good  night,  N.B.C.  News.  I  mean,  good  night  from  N.B.C.  News.  And  good  night  to  you,  too,  Chet.  BrinkuiEy:  Chet?  is  Chet?  "