b"THE  PIED  PIPER  GROW  old,  I  grow  old.  I  wear  I  my  white  polyester  trousers  rolled,  and  I  rarely  dare  to  eata  peach.  I'm  thirty-nine  and  look  every  minute  of  it.  Depressing.  I've  been  especially  down  in  the  dumps  about  getting  old  since  the  other  night,  when  my  wife,  Karen,  and  I  were  sitting  out  at  dusk  on  the  side  lawn  of  our  farmhouse  in  [REDACTED],  having  an  after-dinner  gin-and-tonic.  Suddenly,  in  the  dis-  tance,  we  heard  the  sound  of  bells,  and  in  a  moment  a  Good  Humor  truck-  the  first  I'd  ever  seen  in  our  neck  of  the  woods-came  around  the  bend  and  up  the  hill  toward  us.  &quot;Ah,  the  ice-cream  man  cometh,&quot;  said  Karen.  &quot;You  want  some?&quot;  I  asked  her,  popping  to  my  feet-really  meaning  that  I  wanted  some  myself.  &quot;Umm,&quot;  Karen  said.  &quot;Something  strawberry  on  a  stick.&quot;  &quot;Right,  something  strawberry  on  a  stick,&quot;  I  said,  and  I  went  dogtrotting  out  to  the  road  to  hail  the  Good  Humor  man.  He  spotted  me  waving  by  the  mailbox,  and,  pulling  to  a  halt  by  our  driveway,  he  climbed  slowly  down  from  his  truck.  &quot;So?&quot;  he  laconically  asked  me,  scowling.  He  seemed  to  be  in  a  re-  markably  bad  humor  for  one  of  his  calling.  He  was  a  tall,  lantern-jawed,  loutish-looking  young  man  of  perhaps  twenty-two.  &quot;So  two  chocolate-covered  straw-  berry  Good  Humors,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Right,&quot;  he  said,  and  in  seconds,  after  I'd  fumbled  forty  cents  out  of  the  pockets  of  my  khakis,  our  transac-  tion  was  completed.  &quot;So  long,&quot;  I  said  amiably  as  he  got  back  into  the  truck.  &quot;Yeah,  thanks,  Pop,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  went  roaring  off  into  the  dusk.  &quot;Pop.&quot;  I'm  not  that  old,  I  thought,  standing  crestfallen  at  the  side  of  the  road.  But  I  suppose  that  to  anyone  who  is  twenty-two,  I-paunchy,  graying  at  the  temples,  not  in  the  least  to  be  trusted-look  like  the  Ancient  Mar-  iner.  &quot;Pop.&quot;  I  could  scarcely  eat  my  ice  cream.  What  got  me  down  most  about  my  encounter  with  the  Good  Humor  man  was  the  fact  that  I  was  once  a  young  ice-  cream  man  myself,  driving  a  battered  old  truck  around  a  place  called  Walton  Lake,  a  resort  area  near  Monroe,  New  York,  in  the  foothills  of  the  Catskills.  It  was  the  summer  between  my  junior  and  senior  years  at  Hamilton  College,  and  I  was  nineteen  and  a  full-fledged  ice-cream  man,  with  a  white  uniform,     a  change  carrier  at  my  belt,  a  pair  of  Rexall  sunglasses,  and  a  visored  cap,  which  I  wore  at  a  jaunty  angle  on  the  back  of  my  head.  I  was  not  a  Good  Humor  man,  however,  and,  indeed,  Good  Humor,  although  probably  bare-  ly  aware  of  the  existence  of  the  com-  pany  I  was  with,  was  our  most  despised  and  envied  rival.  I  worked  for  a  sad,  nervous  little  outfit  called  Pied  Piper,  which  at  that  time,  the  summer  of  1950,  had  only  eleven  trucks,  and  of-  fered  as  much  of  a  threat  to  Good  Humor  as  a  small  chain  of  corner  grocery  stores  might  offer  to  [REDACTED].  The  company  operated  out  of  a  war-surplus  airplane  hangar  that  had  been  set  up  at  the  edge  of  a  second-  class  highway  in  a  town  in  northern  New  Jersey  called  Mahwah,  which  is  just  south  of  Suffern,  New  York,  where  I  grew  up,  and  it  was  owned  by  an  unlikely  pair  of  partners  named  Ernie  Monaghan  and  Mel  Kupinski  (as  I'll  call  them  here).  Ernie,  a  stolid,  melancholy  stump  of  a  man  in  his  mid-thirties,  who  seemed  permanently  wreathed  in  gloom,  was  the  company's  senior  partner,  and  was  mainly  con-  cerned  with  &quot;scouting  new  territory&quot;  -  that  is,  tooling  around  northern  New  Jersey  and  southern  New  York  in  a  banged-up  1946  Chevrolet  in  search  of  ice-cream-selling  areas  not  already  covered  by  our  more  firmly  established  rivals,  which,  besides  Good  Humor,  in-  cluded  companies  called  Bo  Peep,  Bungalow  Bar,  and  Snow  White.  This  left  Mel  in  charge  of  Pied  Piper's  actual  day-to-day  operation.  Mel  was  several  years  younger  than  Ernie-about  twenty-seven.  He  was  thin,  frenetic,  and  hopelessly  cheer-  ful,  constantly  smiling,  clowning,  and  racing  about  at  an  edgy  half  trot.  He  looked,  I  remember,  remarkably  like  Jerry  Lewis,  who  had  just  then  begun  to  become  famous,  and  he  also  did  a  pretty  fair  imitation  of  Lewis-a  rou-  tine  that  included  high-pitched  shrieks,  crossed  eyes,  and  a  mock-awkward  [REDACTED]  step  or  two.  If  one  imagined  Pied  Piper  as  a  kind  of  patched-up,  free-lance  fighter  squadron,  like  the  Lafayette  Escadrille,  as  I  always  did  in  thosedays,  then  Mel  was  our  flying  combat  leader,  supply  sergeant,  chief  mechanic,  chap-  lain,  and  one-man  resident  U.S.O.  troupe.  That  summer,  Pied  Piper  had  three  new  trucks,  the  pride  of  the  squadron,  but  the  eight  others,  includ-  ing  the  one  I  drove,  were  almost  literally     25  falling  apart,  and  each  night,  after  the  trucks  limped  in  from  their  runs,  Mel  would  work  until  one  or  two  in  the  morning  to  get  them  in  shape  to  roll  for  at  least  one  more  day.  He  was  also  responsible  each  morning  for  open-  ing  up  the  hangar,  loading  the  eleven  trucks  with  ice  cream,  and  issuing  clean  uniforms  to  the  arriving  drivers,  after  which  he'd  assemble  all  of  us  fora  fast  pre-takeoff  pep  talk.  &quot;All  right,  you  guys,&quot;  he'd  say,  in  imitation  of  Jerry  Lewis's  high,  squeaky  voice,  &quot;we're  going  out  there  today  and  knock  'em  dead!  We  got  the  weather,  we  got  the  trucks,  we  got  the  ice  cream.  Let's  roll!&quot;  At  that,  Mel  would  leap  into  the  oldest  truck  in  the  squadron,  in  which  he  covered  Fair  Lawn,  New  Jersey,  and,  ringing  his  bells,  screech  out  of  the  hangar  and  into  the  summer  sun-  light.  The  rest  of  us  would  follow,  and  we'd  all  rattle  along  for  a  mile  or  so  in  a  rinky-dink  parade  of  Pied  Piper  trucks,  before  each  ofus  in  turn,  ring-  ing  his  bells  in  salute,  peeled  off  and  headed  out  alone  for  his  own  territory.  ARLIER,  in  June,  when  I  had  applied  one  Saturday  morning  for  the  job  at  Pied  Piper,  I  was  interviewed  in  the  yard  outside  the  hangar  by  Ernie,  who  had  been  just  about  to  leave  on  his  daily  scouting  trip.  I  was  wearing  a  Hamilton  sweatshirt,  I  remember,  and  I  think  Ernie  was  impressed  by  the  fact  that  I  was  a  college  student.  &quot;We  expect  our  summer  drivers  to  work  seven  days  a  week,  twelve  hours  a  day,&quot;  he  said,  looking  me  carefully  up  and  down,  from  my  crewcut  to  my  scuffed  white  bucks.  &quot;I  see,&quot;  I  said,  nodding  my  head  earnestly.  &quot;Of  course,  we  get  our-  selves  rained  out  three  or  four  timesa  month,  and  so  you  get  those  days  off,&quot;  he  added,  glancing  gloomily  up  at  the  sky.  He  went  on  to  explain  that  each  driver  got  a  flat  twenty-two  per  cent  of  the  money  he  brought  in,  and  that  most  drivers  could  average  seventy  dollars  a  day  in  sales.  &quot;So  the  take-home  pay  is  around  a  hundred  bucks  a  week,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Anyway,  kid,  if  you  want  it,  the  job  is  yours.&quot;  &quot;Tl  take  it,&quot;  I  answered  immediate-  ly.  I  hadn't  been  looking  for  a  seven-  day-a-week  job,  but  I  was  more  or  less  working  my  way  through  college,  and  a  hundred  dollars  a  week  was  more  than  twice  as  much  as  I'd  ever  made  in  any  previous  summer  job.  I  still  remember  the  excitement  I  felt  atthe  " b"26  end  of  the  Fourth  of  July  weekend,  when  I  was  paid  for  the  first  time  and  a  hundred  and  three  dollars  and  fifty  cents  was  handed  over  to  me  in  cash,  mainly  five-dollar  bills.  At  the  time,  it  seemed  to  me  like  a  fortune.  In  fact,  I've  never  again  felt  quite  so  rich  as  I  did  that  summer,  heading  home  on  Sunday  nights  with  my  pockets  stuffed  with  five-dollar  bills.  My  territory,  Walton  Lake,  was  an  hour  north  of  Mahwah-twenty-three  miles  up  [REDACTED]  to  Monroe  and  then  left  for  another  four  miles  along  a  winding,  tree-lined  country  road  that  led  out  to  the  lake  itself.  Walton  43616e616461was  about  three  miles  long,  perhaps  a  mile  wide,  and  edged  all  around  by  bungalow  colonies  filled  with  vacation-  ing  New  Yorkers-mah-jongg-playing  women  from  the  Bronx  or  [REDACTED],  their  many  children,  and,  on  the  week-  ends,  their  cigar-smoking  husbands,  who  arrived  from  the  city  on  Friday  evenings  in  a  pride  of  late-model  Buicks  and  Cadillacs.  It  was  a  summer  route,  covered  only  from  the  beginning  of  July  until  Labor  Day,  and  that's  why  it  had  been  given  to  me,  the  only  college  kid  in  the  squadron.  Actually,  the  money  I  earned  that  summer  didn't  seem  so  important  to  me  after  a  while,  for  I  quickly  discovered  that  being  an  ice-cream  man  was  ter-  rific  fun.  I  remember  the  delight  I  felt  each  day  at  noon,  when  I  arrived  at  Walton  43616e616461and  hit  into  my  first  colony,  Barney's  Bungalows,  and  the  children  playing  by  the  lakeside  spotted  my  truck.  &quot;It's  the  tee-cream  man!&quot;  they  would  shout  jubilantly  as  I  drove  my  bouncing,  dirty  white  truck  down  the  unpaved  driveway  into  the  colony,  ring-  ing  my  bells.  They  would  run  to  their  mothers  for  money,  while  I  pulled  to  a  halt  on  a  ruined,  overgrown  tennis  court  behind  the  bungalows,.  Grinning  from  ear  toear,  I  climbed  out  of  my  truck  and  took  up  my  post  beside  the  refrigerator  compartment  in  the  back.  The  grin  wasn't  just  for  business.  It  was  because  I  felt  good:  I  was  the  ice-cream  man.  In  seconds,  I'd  be  surrounded  by  about  twenty-five  chil-  dren,  all  jumping  up  and  down,  all  shouting  at  me  at  the  same  time.  &quot;O.K.,  kids,&quot;  I  would  say,  holding  up  my  hand,  &quot;make  a  line-the  little  kids  in  front  and  the  big  kids  in  back.  And  when  you  get  to  me,  shout  out  what  you  want  loud  and  clear.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  got  rum  raisin  today?&quot;  a  small  voice  might  say.  &quot;Sure,  I  got  rum  raisin,'  I  an-  swered,  and  I  went  into  the  spiel  that  I  must  have  recited  sixty  or  seventy  times  a  day.  &quot;I  got  chocolate-covered  Pied  Piper  ice  cream  on  the  stick-  vanilla,  chocolate,  strawberry,  maple  walnut,  butter  pecan,  and  rum  raisin.  Plus,I  gotPied  Piper  double  popsicles  on  the  stick-orange,  raspberry,  and  cherry.  Plus,  I  got  Pied  Piper  ice-cream  sandwiches-vanilla  and  chocolate.  I've  got  Dixie  cups,  I've  got  half  pints,  I've  even  got  pints.  So  let's  go.  Who's  first?&quot;  In  ten  minutes,  I  had  sold  maybe  two  dollars  and  twenty  cents'  worth  of  ice  cream,  and  then,  climbing  back  into  my  truck,  I  was  on  my  way,  ringing  my  bells  as  I  drove  back  up  the  driveway  to  the  macadamed  road  that  circled  the  lake.  All  afternoon  long,  as  I  visited  one  bungalow  colony  after  an-  other  around  the  lake,  the  scene  at  Barney's  Bungalows  would  be  re\xc3\xa9n-  acted-the  children  everywhere  greet-     JULY  4,  1970  ing  me  as  though  I  were  a  magical,  re-  appearing  Santa  Claus  in  July.  When  I  think  now  about  that  sum-  mer,  I  especially  dwell  on  the  after-  noons-afternoons  selling  ice  cream  at  Walton  43616e616461in  the  hot,  hazy  Cats-  kill  sunlight.  I  remember  the  sudden,  thrilling  rush  of  icy  air  on  my  face  when  I  opened  the  refrigerator  box  at  the  back  of  the  truck,  and  the  sticky  sweet  taste  of  the  orange-ice  popsicles  I  took  for  myself  from  my  wares  two  or  three  times  an  afternoon,  and  the  cheerful,  clanking  sound  of  my  wild  bells,  Remembering,  I  see  myself  as  if  from  adistance:  the  white  truck  parked  on  the  far  side  of  a  dusty  soft-  ball  field;  the  children  gathered  about  the  truck;  the  crewcut,  jug-eared  young  man  in  the  Rexall  sunglasses  standing  in  their  midst-me  at  nine-  teen-leaning  down  to  give  a  Dixie  cup  to  a  four-year-old;  a  blue  bal-  loon  drifting  up  above  the  truck  and  vanishing  into  an  even  bluer  sky.  Those  long  summer  afternoons  have  now  be-  come  for  me  a  blur  of  forgotten  chil-  dren's  faces,  half-forgotten  smells  of  Skol  and  damp  bathing  suits  and  pines,  and  the  sound  again  of  my  bells,  of  distant  shouting  voices,  and  of  motor-  boats  buzzing  far  away  out  on  the  lake.  At  six  o'clock,  when  everyone  in  the  bungalow  colonies  had  vanished  in-  doors  for  dinner,  I  would  leave  Walton  Lake,  and,  after  stopping  at  a  diner  for  a  Coke  and  a  couple  of  cheeseburgers,  I  would  drive  two  miles  south  to  my  night  territory.  This  was  a  sprawling  housing  development  called  Wildwood  Acres-treeless  streets  lined  by  rows  of  identical  low-cost  ranch  houses,  where  my  customers  were  year-round  resi-  dents  rather  than  summer  people.  At  first,  as  I  cruised  slow-  ly  down  the  Wildwood  Acres  streets,  ringing  my  bells  in  the  fading  light,  most  of  my  cus-  tomers  were  still  chil-  dren,  out  playing  in  the  yard  after  dinner-  five-  and  six-year-olds,  some  of  them  already  in  their  pajamas,  smell-  ing  of  citronella-  whose  ice  cream  was  usually  bought  for  them  by  their  fathers.  I  remember  those  lean,  sunburned  young  men  in  T-shirts  and  chinos,  who  would  stop  mow-  ing  the  lawn  or  wash-  ing  a  1948  Plymouth  in  the  driveway  and  walk  slowly  to  my  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  truck,  fishing  in  their  pants  for  change  and  smiling  at  the  racket  the  kids  were  making.  Later,  though,  after  the  children  had  disappeared  into  their  houses  and  gone  to  sleep,  my  customers  were  all  grownups.  I  remember  a  young  man  shouting  to  me  from  his  garage,  where  he  was  fixing  a  broken  lawn-  mower,  &quot;Hey,  Pied  Piper,  hold  it!&quot;  I  stopped  my  truck  and  climbed  out  as  he  came  trotting  over.  &quot;Edna,  it's  the  ice-cream  man.  Whadda  you  want?&quot;  he  called,  and  a  soft-faced,  pregnant  girl  of  perhaps  only  eighteen  or  nineteen  appeared  at  the  screen  door  of  their  low,  pale-  green  ranch  house.  &quot;I  don't  know,  honey,  anything.  Get  me  a  sammich,&quot;  she  called  out  to  him.  &quot;You  got  a  couple  of  ice-cream  sammiches  there?&quot;  the  young  man  asked  me.  &quot;Yeah,  that's  a  dime  apiece,&quot;  I  an-  swered.  He  took  them,  paying  me  with  three  nickels  and  five  pennies  dug  out  of  his  chinos,  and  then  went  trotting  back  to  the  house,  past  some  plastic  gnomes  on  the  lawn,  hurrying  before  the  ice  cream  could  melt  in  his  hands.  Later,  when  it  grew  dark,  I  switched  on  my  red  and  blue  sidelights  and  drove  even  slower,  ringing  my  bells  more  softly  now,  soas  not  to  wake  the  sleeping  children.  It  was  a  lovely  time  of  the  evening,  just  after  dusk,  when  the  warm  air  was  heavy  with  the  pungent  smell  of  freshly  cut  grass.  The  street  lights  had  gone  on,  and  I  could  hear  radios  from  within  screened  porches,  tuned,  maybe,  to  &quot;Duffy's  Tavern,&quot;  or  to  Red  Barber  broadcasting  a  [REDACTED]  Dodger  night  game  from  [REDACTED].  In  Wildwood  Acres,  I  was  able  to  sell  ice  cream  until  ten  o'clock,  stopping  every  few  houses  fora  customer  who  whistled  or  called  quietly  out  to  me,  but  as  soon  as  ten  o'clock  came  my  business  abruptly  fell  away  to  nothing,  and  women  began  shouting  out  at  me  in  the  dark,  &quot;Go  on  home,  you  wanna  wake  up  the  kids?&quot;  &quot;Go  on  home,  nobody  wants  no  more  ice  cream!&quot;  &quot;Go  on  home,  Pied  Piper!&quot;  When  the  women  began  to  shout,  I  switched  off  my  sidelights,  turned  my  Pied  Pipertruck  around,  and  headed  back,  non-stop,  to  Mahwah.  My  truck  had  an  open  cab,  so  it  was  like  driving  a  convertible  with  the  top  down,  and  I  whizzed  along  the  dark  country  road  back  to  Monroe  and  down  [REDACTED]  through  the  hot  sum-  mers  night,  a  lone  P-38  winging  back  to  squadron  headquarters  after  another      daredevil  mission.  As  I  drove,  I  en-  tertained  myself  by  singing  a  medley  of  songs  from  &quot;South  Pacific'  (&quot;Some  enchanted  eeve-ning,  you  will  see  a  stranger  ...&quot;)  or  by  reciting  Yeats,  whom  I'd  recently  discovered,  clank-  ing  along  in  the  night  loudly  declaim-  ing  &quot;Sailing  to  Byzantium&quot;  or  &quot;The  Wild  Swans  at  Coole&quot;  to  the  stars.  On  many  nights,  my  engine  would  be  wheezing  or  sputtering  as  I  ground  to  a  halt  in  the  hangar,  and  Mel,  his  white  uniform  already  covered  with  grease,  instantly  dove  under  the  hood,  while  I  joined  the  rest  of  the  drivers  at  a  trestle  table,  where  we  all  counted  up  our  takes  for  the  day.  We  Pied  Piper  drivers  were  a  pretty  miscella-  neous  bunch.  At  nineteen,  I  was  the  youngest  member  of  the  squadron,  while  the  oldest  was  a  retired  Erie  Railroad  engineer  of  more  than  sixty-  five,  and  we  included  in  our  ranks  a  former  New  York  fireman  and  a  semi-  alcoholic  ex-jockey.  Still,  we  got  along  together  famously,  and  when  we  were  counting  up  at  night  there  was  always  a  great  deal  of  joking  and  horsing  around.  &quot;Hey,  look,&quot;  the  ex-jockey,  Ronnie,  said  one  night  as  we  were  all  neatly  stacking  our  money.  &quot;I  took  in  my  first  eighteen-dollar  bill  today.&quot;  &quot;Whadda  you  mean?  There's  no  such  thing  as  an  eighteen-dollar  bill,&quot;  said  Red,  the  former  fireman,  who  wasn't  the  brightest  of  the  Pied  Piper  drivers.  &quot;Oh,  goddam-gypped  again,&quot;  said  Ronnie,  winking  at  the  rest  of  us.  &quot;And  I  gave  that  guy  an  eleven  and  two  threes  in  change.&quot;  And  later,  over  nightcap  half  pints  of  chocolate  or  butter  pecan,  we  ear-  nestly  discussed  how  our  Dixie  cups  were  moving,  or  why  maple-walnut  " b" sales  seemed  to  be  slipping,  or  how  a  sudden  thunderstorm  had  rained  out  the  Glen  Rock  and  Fair  Lawn  night  territories.  Shoptalk.  I  must  admit  that  I  especially  looked  forward  to  this  hour  in  the  hangar,  because  by  the  middle  of  July  I  had  become  the  Ace  of  the  Squadron.  Part-  ly  because  I  wasworking  a  resort  area,  but  also  because  I  was  young  and  eager,  hustling  my  Pied  Piper  truck  over  as  much  ground  as  anyone  could  possibly  cover  in  twelve  hours,  I_  regularly  turned  in  the  top  daily  take  of  any  driver  in  the  squadron-even  more  than  Mel.  My  average  was  about  eighty-five  dollars  a  day,  which  pushed  my  take-home  pay  up  to  over  a  hun-  dred  and  thirty  dollars  a  week.  And  then,  one  witheringly  hot  Sunday  in  carly  August,  I  did  something  that  no  other  Pied  Piper  driver  had  ever  done  before:  I  sold  more  than  a  hundred  dollars'  worth  of  ice  cream  in  one  day.  One  hundred  and  two  dollars  and  forty  cents'  worth,  to  be  exact.  That  night,  after  I  counted  out  the  record  haul  on  the  trestle  table  and  stood,  red-faced  with  excitement,  be-  side  my  great  pile  of  dimes  and  quar-  ters  and  wrinkled  bills,  Mel  walked  up  to  me,  put  his  arm  around  my  shoulders,  and  said,  &quot;You're  the  best  damned  driver  we  got  at  Pied  Piper,  kid.&quot;  And  from  that  time  on  Mel  proudly  pointed  me  out  to  wholesale  ice-cream  salesmen  and  other  visitors  to  the  hangar.  &quot;There's  the  only  driver  ever  to  break  a  hundred  in  one  run,&quot;  he  would  say  as  I  was  getting  into  my  whites  in  the  morning.  I  was  the  Ace,  the  Kid,  and-in  Pied  Piper  circles,  at  least-a  legend  in  my  own  time.  Each  night,  after  I  turned  in  my  take  and  changed  back  into  civvies,  I  walked  home  to  Suffern,  a  mile  and  a  half  away,  singing  again  as  I  strolled  through  the  moonlit  suburban  night,  and  usually  coming  up  the  steps  onto  the  front  porch  of  my  house  at  about  midnight.  My  mother  would  have  a  late  dinner  waiting  for  me  in  the  kitchen,  which  I  hungrily  finished  off  infive  minutes.  After  dinner,  I  would  watch  a  bit  of  &quot;Broadway  Open  House&quot;  on  television  and  then  slump  wearily  off  to  bed,  to  rise  again  at  nine  and  head  back,  after  breakfast,  for  the  Pied  Piper  hangar.  Never  once  that  summer  did  I  go  swimming  or  go  to  a  movie  or  take  a  girl  out  on  a  date,  but  I  can't  recall  another  summer  in  my  entire  life  that  went  by  more  swiftly.  T  the  end  ofthe  summer,  on  Labor  Day,  when  I  came  inat  night  from  my  last  run,  Mel  broke  out  a  fifth  of  Four  Roses  and  there  was  an  impromptu  farewell  party  for  me-  whiskey  and  Pied  Piper  ice  cream.  When  the  party  was  over  and  the  bot-  tle  empty,  I  solemnly  shook  hands  all  around  and  promised  everyone  that  someday  I'd  come  back  to  work  for  Pied  Piper  again.  But  of  course  I  never  did.  After  I  got  out  of  college,  I  went  into  the  Army  for  two  years,  and  after  the  Army  one  thing  led  to  another,  and  now,  though  it  seems  scarcely  possible,  it's  been  twenty  years  since  I  was  an  ice-cream  man.  I've  kept  up  with  the  fortunes  of  Pied  Piper,  though,  andI'm  happy  to  re-  port  that  the  company  has  done  very  well  for  itself.  A  couple  of  years  after  I  worked  for  them,  Ernie  and  Mel  moved  their  operation  to  a  garage  in  [REDACTED],  New  Jersey,  and  the  last  I  heard,  a  few  months  ago,  they  had  sixty  trucks  on  the  road.  It  pleases  me  to  know  that  the  squadron  is  still  in  the  air,  and  I  was  oddly  pleased,  too,  when  I  learned  the  other  day  from  my  two  younger  brothers,  Bob  and  Jack,  who  followed  me  in  working  their  way  through  college  as  summer  Pied  Piper  men,  that  Mel  continues  to  drive  the  Fair  Lawn  route  on  occasion  and  that  Ernie  still  spends  most  of  his  days  scouting  new  territory.  That  Good  Humor  man  hasn't  come  up  our  road  again,  by  the  way,  and  from  my  professional  knowledge  of  such  matters  I'd  say  that  he  was  lost  that  night  and  had  made  a  wrong  turning  somewhere.  Still,  I'm  glad  that  he  came  by  that  once,  for  he  got  me  to  thinking  about  my  Pied  Piper  days,  and  that  in  turn  has  led  me  to  realize  some-  thing  about  myself:  I  am\xc2\xbb  old.  Thirty-  nine  isn't  quite  the  end  of  the  line,  of  course,  but  I  know  that  I  couldn't  last  even  a  single  day  as  a  Pied  Piper  man  now.  Banging  around  in  a  rattly  old  truck  seven  days  a  week,  twelve  hours  a  day-that's  an  eighty-four-hour  week,  and  I'm  accustomed  nowadays  to  the  thirty-five-hour  week,  and  air-condi-  tioned  and  comfortably  desk-bound,  at  that.  Also,  I'm  pretty  certain  that  I  wouldn't  have  the  patience  at  thirty-  nine  to  put  up  with  all  those  shout-  ing  children;  they'd  probably  drive  me  crazy  within  acouple  of  days.  In  fact,  if  you  paid  me  five  hundred  dollars  a  week  I  wouldn't  be  a  Pied  Piper  man  now.  I'm  &quot;Pop,&quot;  all  right,  and  the  summer  bells  no  longer  ring  for  me.  "