"HASSIDIC  TALES,  YVITH  A  GUIDE  TO  THEIR  INTERPRETATION  BY  THE  NOTED  SCHOLAR  MAN  journeyed  to  Chelm  in  order  to  seek  the  advice  of  Rab-  bi  Ben  Kaddish,  the  holiest  of  all  ninth-century  rabbis  and  perhaps  the  greatest  noodge  of  the  medieval  era.  &quot;Rabbi,&quot;  the  man  asked,  &quot;where  can  I  find  peace?&quot;  The  Hassid  surveyed  him  and  said,  &quot;Quick,  look  behind  you!&quot;  The  man  turned  around,  and  Rabbi  Ben  Kaddish  smashed  him  in  the  back  of  the  head  with  a  candlestick.  &quot;Is  that  peaceful  enough  for  you?&quot;  he  chuckled,  adjusting  his  yarmulke.  In  this  tale,  a  meaningless  question  is  asked.  Not  only  is  the  question  mean-  ingless  but  so  is  the  man  who  journeys  to  Chelm  to  ask  it.  Not  that  he  was  so  far  away  from  Chelm  to  begin  with,  but  why  shouldn't  he  stay  where  he  is?  Why  is  he  bothering  Rabbi  Ben  Kad-  dish-the  Rabbi  doesn't  have  enough  trouble?  The  truth  is,  the  Rabbi's  in  over  his  head  with  gamblers,  and  he  has  also  been  named  in  a  paternity  case  by  a  Mrs,  Hecht.  No,  the  point  of  this  tale  is  that  this  man  has  nothing  better  to  do  with  his  time  than  journey  around  and  get  on  people's  nerves.  For  this,  the  Rabbi  bashes  his  head  in,  which,  ac-  cording  to  the  Torah,  is  one  of  the  most  subtle  methods  of  showing  con-  cern.  In  a  similar  version  of  this  tale,  the  Rabbi  leaps  on  top  of  the  man  in  a  frenzy  and  carves  the  story  of  Ruth  on  his  nose  with  a  stylus.  RABBI  Raprrz  of  [REDACTED]  was  a  very  short  rabbi  with  a  long  beard,  who  was  said  to  have  inspired  many  pogroms  with  his  sense  of  humor.  One  of  his  disciples  asked,  &quot;Who  did  God  like  better-Moses  or  Abraham?&quot;  &quot;Abraham,&quot;  the  Zaddik  said.  &quot;But  Moses  led  the  Israelites  to  the  Promised  Land,&quot;  said  the  disciple.  &quot;All  right,  so  Moses,&quot;  the  Zaddik  answered.  &quot;I  understand,  Rabbi.  It  was  a  stupid  question.&quot;  &quot;Not  only  that,  but  you're  stupid,  your  wife's  a  meeskeit,  and  if  you  don't  get  off  my  foot  you're  excommuni-  cated.&quot;  Here  the  Rabbi  is  asked  to  make  a  value  judgment  between  Moses  and  Abraham.  This  is  not  an  easy  matter,  particularly  for  a  man  who  has  never  read  the  Bible  and  has  been  faking  it.  And  what  is  meant  by  the  hopelessly  relative  term  &quot;better&quot;?  What  is  &quot;bet-  ter&quot;  to  the  Rabbi  is  not  necessarily  &quot;better&quot;  to  his  disciple.  For  instance,  the  Rabbi  likes  to  sleep  on  his  stomach.  The  disciple  also  likes  to  sleep  on  the  Rabbi's  stomach.  The  problem  here  is  obvious.  It  should  also  be  noted  that  to  step  on  a  rabbi's  foot  (as  the  disciple  does  in  the  tale)  is  a  sin,  according  to  the  Torah,  comparable  to  the  fondling  of  matzos  with  any  intent  other  than  eating  them.  MAN  who  could  not  marry  off  his  ugly  daughter  visited  Rabbi  Shimmel  of  Cracow.  &quot;My  heart  is  heavy,&quot;  he  told  the  Rev,  &quot;because  God  has  given  me  an  ugly  daughter.&quot;  &quot;How  ugly?&quot;  the  Seer  asked.  &quot;If  she  were  lying  on  a  plate  with  a  herring,  you  wouldn't  be  able  to  tell  the  difference.&quot;  The  Seer  of  Cracow  thought  for  a  long  time  and  finally  asked,  &quot;What  kind  of  herring?&quot;  The  man,  taken  aback  by  the  query,  thought  quickly  and  said,  &quot;Er-Bis-  marck.&quot;  &quot;Too  bad,&quot;  the  Rabbi  said.  &quot;If  it  was  Maatjes,  she'd  have  a  better  chance.&quot;  Here  is  a  tale  that  illustrates  the  tragedy  of  transient  qualities  such  as  beauty.  Does  the  girl  actually  resemble     31  a  herring?  Why  not?  Have  you  seen  some  of  the  things  walking  around  these  days,  particularly  at  resort  areas?  And  even  if  she  does,  are  not  all  crea-  tures  beautiful  in  God's  eyes?  Perhaps,  but  if  a  girl  looks  more  at  home  in  a  jar  of  wine  sauce  than  in  an  evening  gown  she's  got  big  problems.  Oddly  enough,  Rabbi  Shimmel's  own  wife  was  said  to  resemble  a  squid,  but  this  was  only  in  the  face,  and  she  more  than  made  up  for  it  by  her  hacking  cough-the  point  of  which  escapes  me.  RABBI  CHam  YIsROEL,  an  Or-  thodox  scholar  of  the  Torah  and  a  man  who  developed  whining  to  an  art  unheard  of  in  the  West,  was  unani-  mously  hailed  as  the  wisest  man  of  the  Renaissance  by  his  fellow-Hebrews,  who  totalled  a  sixteenth  of  one  per  cent  of  the  population.  Once,  while  he  was  on  his  way  to  synagogue  to  celebrate  the  sacred  Jewish  holiday  commemo-  rating  God's  reneging  on  every  prom-  ise,  a  woman  stopped  him  and  asked  the  following  question:  &quot;Rabbi,  why  are  we  not  allowed  to  eat  pork?&quot;  &quot;We're  not?&quot;  the  Rev  said  incredu-  lously.  &quot;Uh-oh.&quot;  This  is  one  of  the  few  stories  in  all  Hassidic  literature  that  deals  with  Hebrew  law.  The  Rabbi  knows  he  shouldn't  eat  pork;  he  doesn't  care, " b"though,  because  he  kes  pork.  Not  only  does  he  like  pork;  he  gets  a  kick  out  of  rolling  Easter  eggs.  In  short,  he  cares  very  little  about  traditional  Orthodoxy  and  regards  God's  covenant  with  Abra-  ham  as  &quot;just  so  much  chin  music.&quot;  Why  pork  was  proscribed  by  Hebraic  law  is  still  unclear,  and  some  scholars  believe  that  the  Torah  merely  suggested  not  eating  pork  at  certain  restaurants.  RxBBI  BAUMEL,  the  scholar  of  Vi-  tebsk,  decided  to  embark  on  a  fast  to  protestthe  unfair  law  prohibiting  Russian  Jews  from  wearing  loafers  out-  side  the  ghetto.  For  sixteen  weeks,  the  holy  man  lay  on  a  crude  pallet,  staring  at  the  ceiling  and  refusing  nourishment  of  any  kind.  His  pupils  feared  for  his  life,  and  then  one  day  a  woman  came  to  his  bedside  and,  leaning  down  to  the  learned  scholar,  asked,  &quot;Rabbi,  what  color  hair  did  Esther  have?&quot;  The  Rev  turned  weakly  on  his  side  and  faced  her.  &quot;Look  what  she  picks  to  ask  me!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Youknow  what  kind  of  a  headache  I  got  from  sixteen  weeks  without  a  bite!&quot;  With  that,  the  Rabbi's  disciples  escorted  her  personally  into  the  swkkah,  where  she  ate  bounteously  from  the  horn  of  plenty  until  she  got  the  tab,  This  is  a  subtle  treatment  of  the  problem  of  pride  and  vanity,  and  seems  to  imply  that  fasting  is  a  big  mistake.  Particularly  on  an  empty  stomach.  Man  does  not  bring  on  his  own  unhap-  piness,  and  suffering  is  really  God's  will,  although  why  He  gets  such  a  kick  out  of  it  is  beyond  me.  Certain  Ortho-  dox  tribes  believe  suffering  is  the  only  way  to  redeem  oneself,  and  scholars  write  of  a  cult  called  the  Essenes,  who  deliberately  went  around  bumping  into  walls.  God,  according  to  the  later  books  of  Moses,  is  benevolent,  although  there  are  still  agreat  many  subjects  he'd  rather  not  go  into.  ABBI  YEKEL  of  Zans,  who  had  the  best  diction  in  the  world  until  a  Gentile  stole  his  resonant  underwear,  dreamed  three  nights  running  that  if  he  would  only  journey  to  Vorki  he  would  find  a  great  treasure  there.  Bid-  ding  his  wife  and  children  goodbye,  he  set  out  on  a  trip,  saying  he  would  re-  turn  in  ten  days.  Two  years  later,  he  was  found  wandering  the  [REDACTED]  and  emotionally  involved  with  a  panda.  Cold  and  starving,  the  Rev  was  taken  back  to  his  home,  where  he  was  re-  vived  with  steaming  soup  and  flanken.  Following  that,  he  was  given  some-  thing  to  eat.  After  dinner,  he  told  this  story:  Three  days  out  of  Zans,  he  was  set  upon  by  wild  nomads.  When  they  learned  he  was  a  Jew,  they  forced  him  to  alter  all  their  sports  jackets  and  take  in  their  trousers.  As  if  this  were  not  humiliation  enough,  they  put  sour  cream  in  his  ears  and  sealed  them  with  wax.  Finally,  the  Rabbi  escaped  and  headed  for  the  nearest  town,  winding  up  in  the  [REDACTED]  instead,  because  he  was  ashamed  to  ask  directions.  After  telling  the  story,  the  Rabbi  rose  and  went  into  his  bedroom  to  sleep,  and,  behold,  under  his  pillow  was  the  treasure  that  he  originally  sought.  Ecstatic,  he  got  down  and  thanked  God.  Three  days  later,  he  was  back  wandering  in  the  [REDACTED]  again,  this  time  in  a  rabbit  suit.  The  above  small  masterpiece  amply  illustrates  the  absurdity  of  mysticism.  The  Rabbi  dreams  three  straight  nights.  The  Five  Books  of  Moses  sub-  tracted  from  the  Ten  Commandments  leaves  five.  Minus  the  brothers  Jacob  and  Esau  leaves  three.  It  was  reasoning  like  this  that  led  Rabbi  Yitzhok  Ben  Levi,  the  great  Jewish  mystic,  to  hit  the  double  at  Aqueduct  fifty-two  days  running  and  still  wind  up  on  relief.  "