b"THE  LITTLE  YWRENS  AND  ROBINS  oUsIN  ELLEN  wrote  poetry  for  C  the  local  papers  and  was  the  greatest  non-stop  talker  you  ever  listened  to.  'The  poetry  was  of  three  varieties:  religious  poetry,  love  poetry,  and  nature  poetry  that  went  like  this--the  nature  poetry,  I  mean:  Farewell  to  the  dreary  winter,  Welcome  to  the  days  of  spring.  When  the  trees  put  on  their  coats  of  green  And  the  birds  with  joy  will  sing.  The  daffodils  put  on  their  gowns,  How  proudly  they  stand  up,  To  shake  their  dewy  golden  coats  On  the  smiling  buttercups.  After  reading  the  poem  of  which  that  was  the  opening  stanza,  I  was  somewhat  in  awe  of  Cousin  Ellen:  her  daring  in  rhyming  only  one  little  &quot;up&quot;  with  all  those  buttercups,  her  vision  of  the  daffodils  as  tall  fashion  models  swaying  and  pirouctting  in  extravagant  golden  gowns.  No  one  could  deny  that  Cousin  Ellen  had  a  poetic  mind  and  a  special  vision,  except  my  father,  who  loved  quietude,  and  long,  calm  silent  days,  and  a  garden  growing,  and  who  was  driven  out  of  all  patience  by  Ellen's  clickety-clack  when,  once  a  month,  she  travelled  twenty-five  miles  by  train  from  Hazelhatch  to  visit  us.  &quot;And  Uncle  Tommy,  did  you  hear  that  Peter  McQuade  of  Lettergesh  sold  that  bay  mare  he  had  at  an  un-  imaginable  high  price,  he  brought  her  south  to  the  Curragh  of  Kildare,  and  some  rich  556e6974656420537461746573n  saw  her  and  bought  her  on  the  spot  and  flew  off  with  her  to  Hialeah  in  [REDACTED],  that  was  a  travelled  mare,  they  say  Flori-  da's  lovely-[REDACTED],  that's  where  the  money  is,  not  that  money's  everything  if  you  haven't  happiness,  get  out  there  to  [REDACTED],  Ben  boy,  before  it's  too  late,  and  this,  Aunt  Sara,  is  an  Ameri-  can  fashion  magazine  I  brought  for  you  to  look  over,  the  styles  will  absolutely  blind  you,  you  should  have  been  in  Hazelhatch  last  Sunday  when  the  Rev-  erend  Dr.  Derwent  preached  the  most  divine  sermon  about  the  Sacred  Heart,  I  wrote  a  poem  in  my  head  on  the  way  home  from  church  and  sent  him  an  autographed  copy,  you  see  he  clips  every  one  of  my  poems  out  of  the  papers  and  pastes  them  into  a  big  book,  he  saysthat  he'll  be  the  first  person  ever  to  possess  my  collected  works,  he's  just  divinely  handsome,  too  handsome  for  a  priest,  as  they  say,  although  personally  I  see  no  harm  at  all  in  a  priest  being  handsome,  he's  leading  the  diocesan  pilgrimage  to  Lourdes,  Fatima,  4974616c79,  and  home  by  Lisieux  this  year,  an  all-rounder,  and  I  have  every  intention  of  going,  I  never  saw  Lisieux  and  I  have  always  adored  St.  Th\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9se,  she  wrote  the  divinest  book,  solid  as  a  rock-just  like  Mama,  who's  in  the  best  of  health,  nothing  shakes  her,  all  plans  to  make  the  busi-  ness  prosper,  we're  expecting  such  a  passing  rush  of  tourists  this  year  on  the  way  to  West  Donegal,  they  all  stop  to  stock  up  withfood  and  drink  at  Hazel-  hatch  Inn,  that  old  picturesque  thatch  and  diamond-paned  latticed  windows  catch  the  eye,  you'd  be  amazed  the  number  of  people  who  stop  to  take  pictures  and  then  come  in  and  buy,  beauty  and  business  mixed  .  ..&quot;  My  father  said  that  after  half  an  hour  or  less  of  her  monologue  he  al-  ways  felt  that  he  was  drowning  in  a  warm,  slow  stream,  drifting  slowly,  brain  and  body  numb,  faraway  bells  in  his  ears-comfortable  but  teetotally  helpless.  That  talk,  he  claimed,  threat-  ened  the  manhood  in  a  man,  which  was  why  all  men  had  escaped,  while  there  was  still  time,  from  Cousin  Ellen,  ex-  cept  Dr.  Derwent,  who  was  sworn  celibate  and  thus  safe,  and  except  for  one  other  wretch-Edward-whom  she  talked  into  matrimony  and  who  lasted  for  a  year  and  then  vanished  mysteriously.  Dead  by  asphyxiation,  my  father  said,  and  buried  se-  cretly  under  the  apple  trees  at  the  back  ofthe  old  house  in  Hazelhatch.  Those  were  lovely  apple  trees.  Drowning  in  what  deep  waters  of  constant  talk  was  I,  the  Saturday  I  walked  her  through  the  marketing  crowds  in  from  the  coun-  try,  from  brown  mountains  and  green  river  valleys,  to  our  town?  We  went  along  John  Street  and  High  Street  and  Market  Street,  by  the  Catholic  church  with  the  limping  spires  that  could  be  seen  for  miles,  by  the  eighteenth-century  court-  house  with  Doric  columns  that  was  once  admired  by  no  less  a  person  than  Tyrone  Guthrie,  who  said  that  if  you  tilted  the  long  sweep  of  High  Street  and  Market  Street  the  other  way  the  court-  house  steps  would  be  the  perfect  stage  on  which  to  produce  a  Passion  play.  Church  and  courthouse  were  our  archi-  tectural  prides.  Cousin  Ellen,  as  far  as  I  can  remember  from  my  drowning  swoon,  talked  about  love.  She  was  plan-  ning  to  be  married  shortly.  Being  all  of  eighteen,  I  was  still  interested  in  the  subject.  &quot;Your  sister,  Dympna,  in  [REDACTED],     49  she  said,  is  very  happy,  Edward  and  myself  called  to  see  her  two  months  ago,  not  rich  but  happy  and  happiness  is  all,  I  said  to  her,  'If  only  Edward  and  myself  can  be  as  happy  as  yourself  and  your  husband,&quot;  and  I  hope,  Ben,  that  suitcase  isn't  too  heavy,  but  oh  you're  so  young  and  strong  and  ath-  letic,  and  they  really  shouldn't  allow  these  fruit  stalls  on  the  open  street  any-  more,  they  belong  to  the  Middle  Ages,  and  see  me  safely  now  onto  the  bus  for  Dromore,  the  crowd  here  is  just  fear-  ful,  and  oh  this  letter  I  forgot,  do  drop  it  in  the  post  office  for  me,  it's  for  Ed-  ward,  love  is  all,  just  a  perfect  under-  standing  between  people  and  when  hu-  man  love  fails  there  is  always  the  love  of  the  Sacred  Heart,  which  I  wrote  in  a  poem  that  Dr.  Derwent  read  out  from  the  pulpit,  there  is  nothing  on  earth  we  may  cling  to,  all  things  are  ficeting  here,  the  pleasures  we  so  oft  have  hunted,  the  friends  we've  loved  so  dear  .  ..&quot;  Then  off  she  went-not,  as  it  hap-  pened,  to  Dromore,  where  she  wanted  to  visit  some  other  relatives,  but  to  Drumquin,  because  in  the  confusion  into  which  she  had  talked  me  I  deposit-  ed  herself  and  her  suitcase  on  the  wrong  bus.  To  the  casual  observer  there  isn't  much  difference  between  Drumquin  and  Dromore,  but  one  is  ten  miles  from  the  other,  and  it's  a  bind  to  be  in  one  when  you  want  to  be  in  the  other.  But  Cousin  Ellen  found  some  obliging  com-  mercial  traveller  who  drove  her  to  Dromore,  and  she  wrote  me  a  most  amusing  letter  about  it  all.  She  was  easier  to  readthan  to  listen  to.  The  accident  about  the  buses  had  really  tickled  her,  she  said,  for  life  was  just  like  that:  you  headed  off  for  somewhere  and  ended  up  somewhere  else.  She  bore  no  grudge  and  we  would  be  better  friends  than  ever,  wouldn't  we?  We  were,  too.  BOUT  that  time,  I  headed  off  for  [REDACTED]  to  go  through  the  mo-  tions  of  a  university  education,  and  didn't  see  Cousin  Ellen  again,  although  we  constantly  exchanged  letters,  until  the  husband  had  come  and  gone  and  she  herself  was  in  a  hospital  close  to  Hazelhatch,  with  some  rare  ailment  that  was  to  stop  her  talk  forever,  and  her  poetry.  The  letter  to  Edward  that  she  gave  me  to  post  that  day  I  found  two  weeks  later  when,  pike-fishing  on  the  Drum-  ragh  River,  I  had  a  little  leisure  and  " b"50  used  it  to  clear  out  my  pockets.  Since  it  then  seemed  too  late  to  send  the  letter  to  where  it  should  have  gone,  I  tore  it  up  into  tiny  pieces  and  cast  them  on  the  running  water.  My  mother  always  said  that  you  should  never  burn  letters  from  friends,  or,  indeed,  anything  that  had  to  do  with  friendship.  Fire  destroyed.  Water  did  not.  So  she  was  constantly  making  confetti  out  of  letters  and  flush-  ing  them  down  the  toilet.  The  deep  pike  water  of  the  Drum-  ragh,  still  patterned  with  froth  from  the  falls  at  Porter's  [REDACTED],  bore  away  northward  the  words  of  love  that  El-  len  had  meant  for  Edward.  Life,  she  might  have  said  had  she  then  known,  was  also  like  that.  Our  friendship,  at  any  rate,  remained  unaltered.  After  all,  she  was  the  only  other  writer  in  the  family.  Ah,  yes!  And  the  tiny  little  lambs,  They,  too,  will  play  and  skip  In  the  fields  just  decorated  With  the  daisy  and  cowslip.  The  blackbirds  and  the  thrushes  They  are  glad  to  see  you  here,  The  little  wrens  and  robins  To  all  you  bring  good  cheer.  She  was,  as  you  may  remember,  ad-  dressing  the  spring.  Her  favorite  pic-  ture  hung  on  a  wall  ofthe  old  oak-   timbered  country  kitchen  in  Hazel-  hatch.  It  was  called  &quot;Springtime  on  an  Ayrshire  Hillside;  or,  the  Muse  of  Poetry  Descends  to  Robert  Burns  While  at  the  Plough.&quot;  But  those  words  were  a  paltry  effort  to  describe  that  pic-  ture,  and,  out  of  respect  forthe  mem-  ories  of  Burns  and  Cousin  Ellen-and,  of  course,  of  the  Muse-I  will  tryto  do  better.  The  poet  in  the  picture  is  dressed  in  the  height  of  style:  a  blue  tailcoat,  knee  breeches  a  little  off-white,  strong  wool-  len  stockings,  and  stout  buckled  shoes.  He  has  taken  one  handfrom  the  plough,  to  raise  with  a  sweep  a  tall  hat  of  a  type  that  in  grander  times  may  have  been  general  issue  for  ploughmen,  or  poets.  His  profile  is  noble,  his  head  held  high  to  escape  extinction  in  an  ample  cravat.  He  salutes  a  plump  girl  in  a  white,  revealing,  nightgown  sort  of  costume  of  the  period-French  Direc-  toire,  perhaps-who  is  standing  on  a  cloud  about  two  feet  above  the  backs  of  two  patient  and  unnoticing  horses.  The  girl  on  the  cloud  carries  a  wreath,  and  itis  clearly  her  intention  to  put  the  wreath  where  the  tall  hat  has  been.  In  the  bottom  left-hand  corner,  a  field  mouse  is  playing  the  part  of  a  wee,  sleekit,  cow  rin,  tim'rous  beastie,  yet  is     clearly,  to  judge  from  the  glint  in  her  eyes,  an  intent  observer  of  the  corona-  tion  ceremony.  In  the  background-  for  itis  spring  in  Ayrshire  and  a  little  late  for  ploughing-the  birds  are  plen-  tiful  on  the  branches  and  in  a  pale-blue  sky.  That  picture,  I  feel,  had  its  influence  on  Ellen:  The  man  whose  work  is  in  the  field  From  you  his  joy  can't  hide,  As  he  treads  along  at  break  of  day  With  two  horses  by  his  side.  That  picture  is  also  very  much  pres-  ent  to  me.  When  the  Empress  of  Ha-  zelhatch-as  my  youngest  sister  called  Ellen's  mother,  our  grasswidowed  aunt  by  marriage-died,  and  Hazel-  hatch  passed  into  the  hands  of  strang-  ers,  she  left  me  the  picture.  Ellen  and  myself,  she  said,  had  liked  it,  and  each  other.  Was  the  old  lady  remembering,  too,  one  sad  lulled  day  of  sunshine  when  she  and  I  sat  in  the  kitchen  at  Hazelhatch  and  looked  at  the  picture  and  she  told  me  what  I  had  already  partly  guessed  that  morning-that  El-  len  would  die  in  hospital?  All  around  us  in  the  old  kitchen  were  cases  of  brown  stout  just  freshly  bottled,  in  a  careful  and  religious  ~  ritual  at  which  I  had  been  allowed  to  assist,  along  with  the  new  girl  who  was  there,  from  the  County  Mayo,  to  work  in  the  bar  and  grocery  and  learn  the  trade.  A  long  procession  of  girls  had  come  and  gone  and  benefitted,  per-  haps,  from  the  strict  wisdom  of  the  Empress,  even  if  they  had  most  certainly  sighed  and  writhed  and  groaned  under  her  discipline.  She  still  decant-  ed  her  own  port,  a  good  Gra-  ham,  black  as  your  boot,  and  solid,  but  that  decanting  she  did  on  her  own-no  assistants,  21nd  Spectators  were  not  en-  couraged.  Certain  things  were  just  too  sacred.  That  port  was  famous.  &quot;It  fixed  her  marriage  goodand  proper,&quot;  my  father  said.  \xc2\xabYour  good  mother's  brother  could  think  of  nothing  but  port  and  running  horses.  Nev-  er  left  the  bar  except  to  go  to  Punchestown  or  the  Maze  or  Strathroy  Holm  or  Galway  or  Gowran  Park  or  Tramore  or  Bellewstown  Hill  or  the  Curragh  itself,  or  the  horse  fairs  of  Ballinasloe  or  Cahir-  mee.  When  heran  away  to  the  States  and  never  came  " b"     back,  he  was  both  bowlegged  and  pur-  ple  in  the  [REDACTED];  &quot;He  couldn't  come  back,&quot;  said  my  mother.  \xc2\xbb  She  felt  very  sore  about  the  whole  story.  He  had  been  her  favorite  brother.  She  explained.  &quot;He  went  to  [REDACTED],  not  the  States,  and  then  jumped  the  line  at  Buffalo  and  could  never  again  get  his  papers  in  order.  He  got  in,  but  couldn't  get  out.  There  were  hundreds  like  him.&quot;  &quot;I  often  wondered  why  he  ran  away,&quot;  said  that  youngest  sister,  with  the  thin  face  and  the  dark  hair  and  the  whiplash  of  a  tongue.  &quot;Then  I  met  the  Empress  of  Hazelhatch,  with  her  long  black  gown  and  her  hair  mounted  high  on  a  Spanish  comb-and  dyed  horse  chestnut  as  sure  as  God-and  her  pince-nez,  sitting  behind  the  bar  to  speak  to  the  better  sort  of  people  but  never  demeaning  herself  by  serving  a  customer,  and  I  knew  why  he  would  run  to  [REDACTED],  or  further  if  he  could  get,  without  beginning  to  come  home  again  round  the  world.&quot;  Because  that  sister  was  herself  an  embryo  empress,  she  was  never  happy  at  Hazelhatch.  For  myself,  as  easygoing  as  my  father,  ora  wag-by-the-wall  clock,I  loved  my  visits  to  the  place-  the  picture  of  the  poet,  the  strong  drone  of  the  old  lady's  voice,  the  odor  of  good  groceries  and  booze,  the  glow  of  old  oak,  the  high  bedroom  with  slanted  ceiling  and  dormer  window  and  an  angled  crisscrossed  vision  of  the  road  west  to  Mount  Errigal  and  the  Rosses  and  the  ocean,  the  apples  in  the  or-  chard,  the  procession  of  young,  discon-  tented,  and  frequently  sportive  girls.  Memories  of  those  visits  stay  with  me,  stilled,  separated  from  all  else,  not  frayed  by  time.  That  particular  day,  the  Empress  said  to  me,  &quot;How  did  Ellen  look  when  you  saw  her  this  morning?&quot;  Nobody  except  her  mother  could  ever  have  considered  how  Ellen  looked.  She  talked  so  much  that  you  didn't  see.  So,  to  answer,  I  had  to  think  back  painstakingly.  That  was  all  the  more  difficult  to  do  because  we  had  left  the  kitchen  and  gone,  rather  sadly,  out  to  the  orchard,  where  it  seemed  unkind  and  even  sinful  to  think  how  somebody  looked  who  was  going  to  die  and  who  had  loved  that  orchard.  Ofttimes  I  sit  and  think,  And  wonder  if  God  sends  This  season,  spring,  so  beautiful  To  all  hiscity  friends  ...  For  one  thing,  in  the  hospital  that  morning  Ellen  had  not  been  in  the  least  like  the  Muse  of  Poetry  descending  to  salute  Robert  Burns  at  the  plough.  She  " b"had  always  dressed  modestly,  mostly  in  browns  or  mother-of-God  blues,  with  the  breastbone  well  covered  in  white  frills  and  lace  and  such,  and  there  had  never  been  a  pick  on  her  bones.  Never  before  had  I  noticed  that  she  was  so  freckled-scores  of  tiny  dark-brown  freckles  around  her  eyes  and  down  the  slopes  of  her  nose.  The  paleness  of  her  ailing  face,  perhaps,  made  them  more  than  ever  noticeable.  Freckled  people  are  always  great  talkers,  and  even  ill-  ness  could  not  stop  her  tongue:  only  death,  or  the  last  gaspings  that  preceded  it.  &quot;It  must  be  heavenly  for  you,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;to  feel  that  you  are  really  and  truly  walking  the  paths  of  learning,  and  in  a  city  that  has  been  ennobled  by  the  footsteps  of  so  many  great  scholars  and  poets,  how  I  envy  you,  I  always  so  wanted  to  get  to  the  university,  but  when  I'm  up  and  about  again  and  out  of  this  bed  I  promise  you  a  visit  in  [REDACTED]  and  you  must  show  me  all  the  sights  and  famous  places,  promise,  you'll  find  my  mother  very  quiet  and  brooding  these  days,  I  can't  think  what's  wrong  with  her,  but  sometimes  she  gets  like  that,  it  may  be  that  the  new  girl  and  herself  do  not  get  on  so  well,  a  strange  girl  from  the  County  Mayo,  a  great  singer,  she  came  to  see  me  several  times,  and  sometimes  I  think  she  resembles  me,  she  wants  to  sing,  just  as  I  write  poems,  a  lovely  voice,  too-but  it's  sosad,  such  clean  regular  features  and  an  exquisite  head  of  dark  hair,  but  that  purple  discoloration  on  one  side  of  her  face,  God  help  her,  she  would  have  to  sing  always  with  one  side  of  her  face  away  from  the  audience  ...&quot;  Because  there  was  winter  and  the  end  of  things  in  the  room,  even  if  it  was  high  summer  outside  the  windows,  Itold  her  about  the  letter  forgotten,  then  torn  into  fragments  and  sent  sailing  on  the  Drumragh.  I  told  her  about  my  mother  and  her  opinions  on  fire  and  water.  She  said  that  it  might  havebeen  better  for  both  of  them,  meaning  the  vanished  husband  and  her-  self,  if  it  had  all  ended  the  way  the  letter  did-gone  peacefully  on  the  easy  water.  She  said  my  mother  had  al-  ways  been  kind.  She  stepped  out  of  bed  and  walked  with  me  as  far  as  the  door  of  the  room.  She  wore  a  heavy  blue  dressing  gown.  She  kissed  me.  We  never  met  again.  Ah!  no,  there  are  no  green  fields,  There  are  no  little  lambs  to  play  ...  So  later  that  day,  in  the  orchard,  all  alone  and  sad,  I  am  fixing  a  puncture  in  the  back  wheel  of  the  lofty  ancient  bicycle  on  which  the  Empress  of  Hazel-  hatch  is  wont  to  cruise  forth  in  deep-  green  drowsy  summers,  her  skirts  high  above  the  dust,  her  head  high  above  the  hedges,  surveying  the  labor  of  the  fields,  occasionally  saluting  the  work-  ers.  To  me,  and  softly  singing  to  her-  self-for  she  is  proud  of  her  voice,  and  the  old  lady  flatters  her  about  it-  comes  the  Mavo  girl  with  the  face,  flawless  and  faultless  in  shape  but  dis-  colored  on  the  left  cheek.  She  stands  beside  me,  at  my  left  hand.  Our  hands  touch  as  we  run  the  bicycle  tube  through  a  basin  of  water  so  asto  raise  a  bubble  and  locate  the  puncture.  The  birds  in  the  orchard  trees  are  silent,  be-  cause  it  is  the  sultry  month  of  least  song.  But  the  girl,  for  a  while,  sings  in  a  sort  of  sweet  whisper  about,  of  all  things,  moonlight  in  Mayo.  Then  she  says,  &quot;It  isn't  my  day  off,  and  I  want  to  get  to  Strabane.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  think?  A  fella.&quot;  &quot;Ask  her  for  the  evening  off.&quot;  &quot;She's  hell  on  fellas.  You  ask  her.  She'd  grant  you  anything.&quot;  &quot;I'm  a  fella.&quot;  &quot;You're  the  white-headed  boy  around  here.  Say  you  want  to  take  me  to  the  pictures.&quot;  &quot;What  picture?&quot;  &quot;Any  picture.  No  picture.&quot;  But  walk  out  in  the  country  On  any  fine  spring  day  ...  HE  road  is  dusty  and  the  hedges  high.  Had  Ellen  never  written  a  poem  about  summer?  The  girl  sings  as  she  walks.  It  is  four  miles  to  the  village  of  Lifford-old  houses  shaggy  with  flowering  creepers;  then  acrossthe  great  bridge  where  the  Mourne  River,  containing  the  waters  of  the  Drum-  ragh,  from  Tyrone,  meets  the  Finn  River  from  Donegal  to  form,  between  them,  the  spreading  Foyle;  then  half  a  mile  across  level  water  meadows  to  the  town  of  Strabane.  She  sings  about  the  bird  in  the  gilded  cage.  But  walking  through  Lifford,  curious  faces  looking  out  over  half  doors,  she  stops  singing  and  says,  &quot;Mrs.  Lagan  is  dying,  isn't  she?&quot;  Ellen's  married  name  takes  me  by  surprise.  She  says,  &quot;You  needn't  talk  about  it  if  you  don't  want  to.  It's  just  that  I  like  her.&quot;  &quot;So  do  I.&quot;  'She's  very  clever.  She's  a  poet.&quot;  &quot;Not  exactly  great.&quot;  &quot;She  gets  printed.&quot;  &quot;In  the  local  papers.&quot;  &quot;Nevertheless.&quot;  We  lean  on  the  bridge  and  watch " b"   the  mingling  of  the  Mourne  and  the  Finn,  and  the  wagtails  darting  and  diving  over  a  shining  triangle  of  sand  and  gravel.  She  says,  &quot;The  old  lady  is  kindly  |.  but  very  strict.  Mrs.  Lagan  is  generous  {}{-  but  very  sad.  They  say  there  never  was  a  man  but  one  who  could  listen  to  her  or  talk  her  down.  She  should  have  lived  in  a  world  where  men  talked  more.&quot;  &quot;Like  where?&quot;  &quot;New  York  or  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED]  or  Milan.  Big  singing  cities  Her  soul's  mate  was  a  flowery-preaching  priest.  They  should  have  been  allowed  to  marry,  the  old  lady  says.  They'd  have  made  a  perfect  couple.  She'd  have  made  a  perfect  minister's  wife.  Did  you  ever  look  at  a  minister's  wife?  They're  all  like  that.  All  poetry  and  bazaars.&quot;  &quot;She  could  have  preached  better  than  anyone.&quot;  We  follow  the  level  road  across  the  water  meadows.  There  is  a  raised  foot-  walk  designed  to  keep  pedestrians  dry-  shod  in  time  of  flood.  The  clock  has  stopped  forever  on  that  still  day  in  Strabane.  She  says,  &quot;She  likes  me  to  sing  when  I  go  to  see  her.&quot;  She  sings,  &quot;Ah!  sweet  mystery  of  life  at  last  I've  found  you  ...&quot;  When  she  has  finished  singing,  I  de-  claim:  &quot;You  may  have  your  city  pleasures  And  its  praises  you  may  sing,  But  there's  naught  on  earth  that  can  compare  With  the  country's  dales  in  spring.&quot;  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  &quot;The  voice  of  Cousin  Ellen.&quot;  &quot;I  could  sing  that.&quot;  She  sings  it  to  a  slow  sweet  tune  I  never  heard  before  or  since.  Under  the  apple  trees,  had  Ellen's  poetic  soul  tak-  en  possession  of  the  girl?  We  sit  on  the  quiet  riverbank  to  pass  the  time  until  my  train  departs  for  [REDACTED],  or  until  her  fella  arrives.  She  sits  at  my  left  hand.  When  I  hold  her  chin  and  try  to  turn  her  lips  toward  me,  she  stiffens  her  neck,  then  looks  away  toward  the  town.  So,  when  I  hear  the  train  whistle,  I  leave  her  un-  kissed  there  by  the  Mourne  River,  waiting  for  the  fella.  Often  afterward  in  [REDACTED]  I  wonder  what  songs  she  sings  for  him,  what  side  of  her  face  does  she  turn  toward  him.  "