b"MARCH,  SATURDAY,  2  P.M.~3  P.M.  WO  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  on  I  the  day  before  Easter.  Rain.  Rain  in  the  morning,  rain  now,  All  the  children  asleep  except  Walker.  Walker  is  ten.  We  go  for  a  walk,  down  the  empty  road,  around  the  edges  of  the  puddles.  It  isn't  cold.  The  heavy  sky  is  pushing  down  on  the  soggy  grass;  at  the  end  of  the  road,  the  sea  is  smoky  lavender-gray.  We  come  to  where  a  new  house~is  being  /  built,  at  the  edge  of  5  some  low  woods.  The  yard  is  full  of  lumber;  7  sheets  of  plywood  have  turned  dark,  soaking  up  the  rain.  Piles  of  wood-the  sawed-off  ends  of  two-by-fours,  trapezoids,  kindling  and  wet  papers  in  the  mud.  Beside  the  house  there  is  a  rush-  ing  stream;  the  water  plunges  into  adrain  E  through  the  openings     g,  of  a  metal  cover.  There  is  room  to  f  drop  things  into  the  drain.  Walker  finds  a  white  plastic  cup;  it  will  serve.  Then  we  will  hurry  to  the  seawall,  two  hun-  dred  yards  away,  and  see  if  it  comes  out  of  the  pipe  that  empties  onto  the  rocks  there.  Walker  drops  the  cup,  and  we  go  over  the  squishy  lawns  past  the  empty  houses,  through  the  hedges,  across  the  road.  Somewhere  beneath  us  the  cup  is  spinning  along,  riding  in  the  darkness,  heading  for  the  sea-we  hope,  at  least.  We  cross  a  final  lawn,  climb  down  over  the  concrete  seawall,  and  jump  over  the  rocks  to  where  the  pipe  is-a  three-foot  hole  in  the  side  of  the  seawall.  It  is  jammed  with  rocks,  but  water  is  gushing  out  around  them.  Walker  reaches  in  and  dislodges  a  boulder;  the  water  bursts  out.  He  pulls  away  more  stones,  and  now  there  is  a  torrent  shooting  out  over  the  rocks,  splattering  wildly.  It  is  a  horizontal  gey-  ser;  the  water  must  have  been  backed  up  all  the  way  to  the  swamp  in  the  woods.  Sticks  and  grasses  come  flying  out;  the  water  changes  colors.  Finally,  it  subsides  toa  steady  stream.  We  cannot  find  the  plastic  cup.  We  climb  the  seawall  again  andwalk  home.  Walker  steps  in  the  puddles,  watching  the  water  rise  over  the  soles  of  his  loafers.  &quot;Don't-you'll  get  wet  feet.&quot;  He  steps  onto  solid  ground  and     walks  along,  but  he  is  drawn  to  the  next  puddle,  and  his  loafers  move  through  it,  leading  a  life  of  their  own.  We  reach  our  house  and  open  the  door  slowly-it  squeaks.  We  are  afraid  it  will  wake  the  others.  &quot;Let's  oil  the  door.&quot;  We  start  a  search  for  an  oilcan.  The  bottom  drawer  in  the  kitchen:  no.  Out  into  the  garage.  Two  drawers  in  a  work-  bench:  no.  A  closet:  no.  We  cross  the  driveway  to  Grandma's  house  (empty  for  the  winter)  and  eriter  her  garage.  An  old-fashioned  oilcan,  the  sort  a  railroad  engineer  carries  in  pictures,  sits  on  a  beam.  We  try  it-clunmk;  clonk.  It  is  rusty  and  empty.  Into  a  small  room  where  the  water  pump  stands.     The  pump  is  oily  and  silent.  &quot;The  F.E.  Myers  &amp;  Bro.  Co.,  Ashland,  Ohio,&quot;  it  says  on  one  side,  andon  the  other  side  there  is  an  emblem:  &quot;'Take  Off     Your  Hat  to  the  Myers  ...  Pumps  for  Every  Purpose  ...  Hay  Tools  &amp;  Door  Hangers.&quot;  Nearby  are  paint  cans,  a  wheelbarrow,  glass  jars  of  nails,  weed  killer,  turpen-  tine.  Over  the  doorway  on  a  two-by-four  is  a  key;  reach  up  and  fum-  ble  in  the  dust.  The  fin-  gers  findthe  key  and  its  bit  of  string  and  its  tag.  43  We  leave  the  garage  and  go  to  the  back  door  of  Grandma's  house  and  unlock  it.  We  enter  the  house.  A  closet  near  the  kitchen:  a  shelf  of  clean-  ing  fluids,  soaps,  spot  removers,  ant  buttons.  We  close  the  door  again  and  try  a  closet  in  the  back  hall.  It  is  locked.  We  go  through  the  dining  room  to  Grandma's  desk,  unlock  and  open  the  lid,  pull  out  a  drawer,  and  find  the  key  marked  &quot;Closet.&quot;  Take  the  key,  return  to  the  hall,  unlock  the  closet,  open  the  door;  a  white  can  sits  on  a  shelf,  waiting.  &quot;s-IN-  ONE  OIL,&quot;  it  says.  It  looks  new,  it  looks  full;  we  grab  it  and  go.  Out  the  door,  across  the  driveway,  around  to  the  front  door.  Walker  opens  it  slowly,  but  it  cries  out  anyway.  I  reach  up  and  oil  the  hinges.  Walker  lets  go,  the  door  gives  the  faintest  start  of  a  groan,  then  slides  silently  shut.  We  open  it  again-no  sound.  We  let  it  close:  utter  silence.  We  tiptoe  through  the  house,  testing  every  door-old  wooden  ones  on  ancient  hinges,  new  ones,  the  swing-  ing  doors  in  the  kitchen-dispensing  oil  to  each.  Even  the  ones  that  don't  need  it;  they  might  need  it  someday.  The  downstairs  now  is  steeped  in  silence.  Doors,  one  after  the  other,  swing  out  and  back,  demonstrating  their  quietude.  We  oil  the  hinges  on  thetop  of  the  deep  freeze,  finally,  and  then  the  house  is  done.  We  carry  the  oilcan  back  to  Grand-  ma's  house,  and  put  it  on  the  shelf  of  the  closet  in  the  back  hall.  Close  the  closet  door.  Lock  it.  Remove  the  key.  Put  the  key  back  in  the  desk  drawer,  close  the  drawer,  then  close  the  desk.  We  walk  back  through  the  empty  house  and  out.  Close  the  door.  It  locks  itself.  We  take  the  key  out  and  go  into  the  garage  and  put  the  key  back  on  the  two-by-four  over  the  door.  Then  we  leave  the  garage,  close  the  door,  and  walk  across  the  shiny  gravel  to  our  house.  The  rain  is  coming  down,  Be-  hind  us,  four  hundred  yards  along  the  seawall,  the  water  is  streaming  from  the  swamp,  through  the  pipe  under  the  lawns,  and  out  onto  the  rocks  and  over  them  into  the  sea.  (Is  the  white  plastic  cup  out  there  now,  riding  on  the  cold  gray  waves?)  In  the  house,  downstairs,  no  doors  squeak.  We  part.  Walker  goes  up  the  stairs  to  his  room  to  read  ;  I  go  into  the  living  room.  We  separate  without  saying  goodbye.  Everyone  is  still  asleep  upstairs.  "