THREE  LIKELY  LADS  OF  LIMBO  Every  schoolboy  knows  the  Virgilian  parallel  to  the  first  of  these  lines  [from  &quot;Lycidas&quot;  ]:  ipsae  te,  Tityre,  pinus,  Ipsi  te  fontes,  ipsa  haec  arbusta  vocabant.*  -&quot;More  Literary  Essays,&quot;  David  Daiches,  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1968.  *Thee,  Tityrus,  the  very  pines,  the  very  fountains,  the  very  trees  sighed  for.  O,  Mr.  Daiches,  not  every  schoolboy  knows  the  Virgilian  parallel.  Not  here  in  [REDACTED],  at  any  rate.  In  my  part  of  [REDACTED]  (or  Amerika,  as  the  underground  papers  have  it),  parallels  tend  to  collide  and  explode,  sometimes  with  extraordinary  consequences.  Tityrium,  I  think,  is  that  new  drug  just  around  the  corner,  promising  a  ten-hour,  no-hangover  high  filled  with  erotic  imagery  and  bird  song.  Ipsi  Fontes-or  Ipsy,  as  he  is  called  locally-is  an  unemployed  rock  singer  well  known  to  me,  and  Arbusta  Vocabant  is  his  latest  girl  friend.  Ipsy  is  institutionalized  right  now,  with  a  shaved  head,  and  I  will  present  his  story,  or  case,  here,  among  some  others  I  know.  By  way  of  explana-  tion,  I  ought  to  say  at  once  that  as  a  sometime  friend  to  half  the  freaks  in  the  Sixth  Precinct  (or  so  it  seems  at  times)  I  have  been  privileged  to  wit-  ness  some  odd  scenes,  frequently  under  the  guidance  of  a  young  drug  dealer  known  as  the  Wide  Screen  Kid-Wisk  to  his  friends.  For  obvious  reasons,  all  these  names  are  false.  All  the  cases,  however,  are  true.     WAS  led,  stoned  (it  was  one  of  the  conditions),  down  East  Tenth  Street  to  Second  [REDACTED],  north  on  Second  Ave-  nue  to  Twelfth  Street,  then  east  on  Twelfth  past  a  brilliantly  painted  blue-  and-orange  tenement,  through  a  bike  shop,  down  a  flight  of  stairs,  up  a  flight  of  stairs,  through  a  courtyard  to  a  tumbledown  carriage  house,  up  more  stairs,  and  finally  into  a  small,  dim,  Raskolnikovian  pad,  reeking  of  cat  reek.  Three  bearded  seamen  lounged  on  a  broken-down  sofa,  smoking;  a  black  cat  with  large  yellow  eyes  sat  on  a  shelf,  staring  at  them  transfixed.  I  had  previously  been  informed  that  the  scamen  had  stolen  a  fishing  boat  in  [REDACTED]  and  were  on  their  way  to  the  Caribbean  and  the  happy  life.  They  were  cooling  it  now  before  the  last  leg  of  the  journey.  I  was  introduced  to  the  housekeeper-  cook,  Jan,  a  quiet,  pleasant  young     man  in  sole  charge  ofthe  five  resident  cats  as  well  as  the  human  cargo.  A  carrot-top  stew  simmered  on  the  greasy  stove,  jiggling  merrily  now  and  then  as  a  woman  in  the  next  apartment  beat  upon  the  wall,  screaming  curses  in  Spanish.  Then  I  was  led  into  the  inner  chamber  to  meet  Dismo.  Dismo  sat  on  the  floor,  wrapped  in  a  shawl,  staring  at  a  candle.  He  of-  fered  me  a  long,  loose  hand  to  shake  and  a  joint,  and  indicated  with  batlike  squeaks  and  fluttering  gestures  that  I  should  make  myself  comfortable-not  easy  to  do  in  a  packing-box-sized  room  filled  with  records,  a  bed,  a  record-  player,  Dismo,  a  candle,  and  Wisk.  And  myself,  of  course-a  large  fellow,  though  not  a  kosmos.  Also  two  or  three  cats.  The  music  was  faint-scratchy  and  chickenlike-but  what  interested  me  most  was  the  dexterity  with  which  Dismo  handled  the  records,  plucking  them  like  a  blind  man  out  of  huge  stacks  lost  in  the  darkness-a  cut  here,  a  cut  there-shuffling  them  on  and  off  the  turntable  with  amazing  speed.  Then  it  all  suddenly  ended  and  we  sat  there  in  silence,  looking  at  the  candle.  It  was  a  tremendous  candle-the  built-  up  waxy  drip,  I  mean-with  a  tiny  flame,  against  which  Dismo  appeared  as  a  spectral  saint  witha  wispybeard  and  long,  flowing  locks.  He  had  been  sitting  and  smoking,  staring  at  the  candle,  for  two  years-so  I  was  told.  A  few  weeks  later,  I  met  Wisk  on  the  street  and  he  said  that  a  strange  thing  had  happened  to  Dismo.  He  had  met  a  Playboy  bunny  (he  didn't  say  how)  and  under  the  spell  oflove  had  given  up  smoking  for  a  day.  On  that  day,  a  Sunday,  he  had  decked  himself  out  in  his  wide-striped,  green-and-white  bells  and  a  frock  coat,  and  had  taken  his  girl  to  the  Bronx  Zoo.  There  he  saw  a  kangaroo,  and  the  sight  so  terrified  him  (&quot;spooked  him,&quot;  Wisk  said)  that  he  ran  screaming  from  the  park  and,  eventually,  all  the  way  down  to  [REDACTED].  There,  according  to  Wisk,  he  fell  at  last  into  the  arms  of  the  renowned  (and  kindly)  Inspector  Frink,  who  had  been  patiently  looking  for  him.  Inspector  Frink  returned  him  to  the  pad  in  a  squad  car,  fixed  him  a  bowl  of  chicken  soup,  and  put  him  to  bed.  In  a  few  days,  Dismo  recovered  and  returned  to  the  candle  and  the  grass.  I  see  him  now  in  the  distant  sky-future  (and  also  close  at  hand)  as  a  great     MARCH  2  1,  1970  Candle  wrapped  in  a  shawl  of  wax,  a  tiny  flame  growing  out  of  his  head;  he  is  changing  records  with  celestial  speed,  surrounded  by  cats.  EAST  Textn  SrrEET  (Jackham-  4  mer  Street  of  late  to  the  locals)  between  University  and  [REDACTED]  is  a  constant  focus  for  firemen's  nets,  squad  cars,  raving  maniacs,  freakos  of  all  sizes  and  shapes.  Part  of  this  is  due  to  nearby  hotels-once  respectable  hostelries  now  rendezvous  for  rock  groups  and  groupies  from  all  cor-  ners  of  the  land.  Part  of  it  is  due  to  the  Hotel  Brittany,  at  the  east  end,  now  a  dormitory  for  male  N.Y.U.  students,  who  project  huge  blown-up  images  of  nudes  through  the  windows  and  onto  the  walls  of  the  co-op  across  the  street,  causing  great  consternation  among  the  upper  middle  classes.  The  general  Tenth  Street  freakiness  stems  from  the  constant  ragtag  flow  of  traffic  between  the  East  Village  and  the  West-an  extraordinary  parade  of  the  displaced,  the  dissociated,  and  the  downright  beat.  Add  to  this  the  nightly  Con  Ed  guerril-  la  raids  and  the  daily  garbage  grind,  and  you  have  a  music  and  a  play  that  are  hard  to  match.  A  couple  of  years  ago  when  a  re-  cording  studio  moved  in  next  door,  we  were  much  afraid  that  everything  would  collapse  under  the  added  weight  of  noise.  &quot;A  twelve-track  studio!&quot;  said  Wisk  excitedly.  &quot;A  hundred  thou-  sand  dollars'  worth  of  equipment!&quot;  But  nothing  collapsed,  and  in  time  we  grew  used  to  the  hard-rock  beat  that  seeped  through  the  walls;  the  only  difficulty  was  that  the  recording  sessions  general-  ly  began  around  midnight  and  ended  at  dawn.  Even  so,  it  was  soothing  com-  pared  with  the  Con  Ed  jackhammers  and  the  air  compressors.  And  there  was  new  color  on  the  street  when  the  Flypaper,  Dry  Mustard,  the  Mungs,  and  hundreds  of  other  hastily  assem-  bled  rock  groups  moved  in  to  make  their  demos,  each  group  with  its  own  groupie,  who  did  all  the  work.  One  rainy  night,  passing  the  studio,  I  saw  a  skinny  little  blonde  slipping  and  slid-  ing  around  on  the  wet  walk  as  she  hustled  band  gear  into  a  tattered  sta-  tion  wagon  while  the  Dry  Mustards  lounged  in  the  doorway,  out  of  the  rain,  dragging  on  the  weed  of  inspira-  tion.  When  she  had  finished  the  job,  one  of  them  said,  &quot;Everything  tight,  baby?,&quot;  and  they  threw  her  in  among  the  amps  and  drums  in  the  back  of  the  wagon,  climbed  in  the  front,  and  went  spiralling  off  up  the  street  and  into  oblivion.  Last  spring,  something  bad  hap-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  pened.  A  young  man  appeared  on  the  roof  of  the  studio  building  one  morn-  ing  painted  like  an  eagle,  pasted  all  over  with  feathers.  Flapping  his  arms,  he  leaped-five  flights-to  a  conclusion  on  the  roof  of  a  junk  shop  in  the  rear.  In  my  apartment,  I  heard  shouts,  then  a  long  buzzer  sound  in  the  lower  hall.  A  huge  cowboy  rushed  in,  wanting  to  know  if  there  was  a  way  out  through  the  rear  (there  wasn't),  and  then  rushed  out  again.  I  gathered  that  some-  one  had  jumped  and  I  went  to  the  window  to  look  at  the  street.  It  was  all  too  familiar-first  the  screaming  squad  cars,  then  the  police  ambulance,  then  the  firemen  with  ladders.  The  slow  coagulation  of  the  gawkers  on  the  opposite  walk  looking  at  the  sky,  the  Good  Humor  man  rushing  in.  It  was  evident  at  once  that  it  was  going  to  be  a  difficult  rescue,  or  re-  covery,  and  I  turned  away  from  the  window,  not  wanting  to  watch  the  watchers.  That  sort  of  thing  gives  me  the  jimjams.  A  year  earlier,  the  same  thing  had  happenedon  the  opposite  side  of  the  house  at  one  o'clock  in  the  morning.  On  that  occasion,  there  were  search-  lights,  nets,  a  young  man  standing  on  a  window  ledge  throwing  knives  at  the  police,  and  a  young  girl  in  the  middle  of  the  street  crying,  &quot;Adam!  Adam!  Don't  jump!  Don't  jump!  I  love  you,  Adam!  Think  of  your  mother!&quot;  He  didn't  jump,  as  it  happened,  but  he  died  nevertheless.  The  police  broke  in  and  shot  him,  onepoliceman  also  shoot,  ing  another,  a  father  of  twelve,*  in  the  leg  during  the  melee.  The  apartment  was  filled  with  sabres,  knives,  bolos,  and  machetes-a  veritable  Hoffritz.  As  for  the  Eagle,  I  pieced  the  story  together  later  from  the  tenants,  who  got  it  from  the  hairdresser  at  the  House  of  Kuan  Yin  and  the  proprietor  of  the  House  of  Chien,  two  side-by-side  es-  tablishments  on  the  ground  floor  of  my  brownstone.  Actually,  there  was  no  story  except  as  related  above-the  war-  paint,  the  feathers,  the  leap.  One  lady  said,  &quot;He  must  havebeen  taking  some-  thing.&quot;  No  doubt.  On  the  other  hand,  there  is  a  story,  because  the  Eagle  was  seen  on  crutches  three  days  later,  buzzing  around,  apparently  none  the  worse  for  the  five-flight  plunge.  Running  into  Wisk  in  the  deli,  I  told  him  the  news,  and  his  eyes  lit  up.  &quot;Man,  somebody's  gonna  do  it  someday,\xe2\x80\x9d  he  said.  &quot;Some-  body's  gonna  fly!  The  Messiah!&quot;  'They'll  shoot  him  down,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  bury  him  on  Hart's  Island.&quot;  He  gave  me  a  hard  look-it  was  *The  News.    anti-acid  talk  I  was  handing  him-and  shuffled  off  with  his  YooHoo  and  hero.  IPSY\xe2\x80\x99S  tale,  true  or  untrue,  is  a  grue-  some  one  and  should  be  skipped  by  the  queasy.  It  begins  like  this:  Having  purchased  a  pair  of  red  velvet  bells  for  thirty  dollars  and  finding  them  not  to  his  liking  after  wearing  them  for  a  day  (wrong  size,  wrong  color),  he  returned  to  Sekhmet,  on  [REDACTED]  Marks  Place,  to  make  an  exchange.  The  manager  flatly  refused  to  consider  the  matter,  and  after  a  brief  hassle  Ipsv  left  in  a  rage.  Ipsy  is  half  Italian  and  half  Irish,  and  he  rages  easily.  He  also  has  red  hair-long,  long  curls-which  may  have  something  to  do  with  the  matter.  So  he  raged  around  the  block  and  came  to  a  store  with  baby  chicks  in  the  window.  This  gave  him  an  idea.  He  bought  one.  Then,  at  another  store,  he  bought  a  pair  of  scissors.  The\xc2\xbb  he  returned  to  Sekhmet,  went  up  to  the  stack  of  bells,  cut  off  the  chick's  head  with  the  scissors,  let  the  blood  squirt  around,  and  stalked  out,  leaving  the  manager  fainting  behind  him.  This,  at  least,  is  the  story  he  told  Dismo,  Wisk,  and  others-it  may  have  been  fantasy.  However,  it  could  be  the  truth.  About  a  week  after  this,  I  received  a  postcard  with  a  picture  of  the  Saarinen  arch  and  the  message  &quot;[REDACTED]  Louis&quot;  in  tall,  shaky-spooky  letters,  in  pencil.  Ipsy  was  next  seen  in  [REDACTED],  looking  wild,  and  then  his  father,  growing  more  and  more  frantic,  finally  tracked  him  down  somewhere  and  threw  him  into  a  nuthouse  in  [REDACTED].  Maybe  he  was  finally  trapped  in  [REDACTED],  I  don't  know.  In  any  case,  when  his  parents  visited  him  for  the  first  time,  he  threw  an  ashtray  at  them,  and  for  this  act  of  savagery  his  head  was  shaved.  Nothing  worse  could  have  happened  to  him-it  was  even  worse  than  the  thing  he  did  in  Sekhmet.  &quot;The  doctorssay  it  will  take  ten  years,&quot;  said  Wisk  with  a  gleam  in  his  eve&quot;  But  it  only  took  a  couple  of  months.  Ipsy  is  out  on  weekend  passes  now,  and  has  been  seen,  like  the  Eagle,  buzzing  around.  &quot;I  never  knew  what  his  head  was  like  before,&quot;  says  Wisk.  &quot;It's  big-  it's  like  an  egg.&quot;  HESE  are  the  figures  in  my  clas-  sical  landscape,  Mr.Daiches-  the  Wide  Screen  Kid,  Dismo,  Ipsy,  even  the  Eagle,  though  I  don't  know  him.  There  are  others,  too-random  travellers,  loners,  rice  eaters,  the  walk-  ing  dead,  the  much  alive.  Among  them  is  a  painter,  poet,  and  bicycle  maniac  by  the  name  of  Luis  [REDACTED].  When-  ever  he  finishes  a  painting  ora  poem,  he  leaps  on  his  bicycle  and  brings  it  to  me  for  my  inspection,  usually  around  4:30  A.M.  I  told  him  the  stories  related  here,  and  a  few  days  later  he  presented  me  with  the  following:  three  likely  lads  of  limbo  while  tripping  out  one  day  beheld  a  monstrous  bimbo  whose  hair  was  flaming,  hey/  her  eyes  were  filled  with  fire  her  smile  insanely  sparked  and  when  she  spoke,  she  babbled  and  when  she  sang,  she  barked:  limbo!  limbo!  don't  jump  out  dat  window!  He's  no  Virgil,  but  I  want  to  dedi-  cate  this  little  essay  to  him.  And  to  you,  Mr.  Daiches. "