 FOREIGNER  S  (  H  god,  I  wish  the  shops  were  O  open,&quot;  said  the  great  atheist  economist,  near  tears,  to  his  terror.  It  was  an  ice-cold  June  Sun-  day.  He  had  eaten  roast  mutton  and  apple  charlotte.  Three  people  in  his  Wiltshire  drawing  room  slept,  and  so  did  his  dogs.  He  looked  at  the  fire  hard  enough  to  dry  out  his  eyeballs,  or  per-  haps  to  singe  them.  &quot;Sundays  are  impossible.  I  can't  stand  Sundays,&quot;  his  voice  said,  again  frightening  him.  The  voice  was  shout-  ing.  His  hands  were  shaking.  Sunday  lunch,  sleep;  radio,  muffins,  sleep;  gin-and-lime,  the  cold.  roast,  radio,  sleep.  His  English  life,  his  English  wife.  On  the  opposite  side  of  their  English  fireplace,  Sara  was  answering  letters  on  her  engraved  English  note  cards:  &quot;Mrs.  Thomas  Flitch,  the  Dow-  er  House,&quot;  And  so  on  and  so  on.  His  496e646961n  mother  was  in  a  wheelchair  by  the  bay  window,  reading.  The  sight  of  her  brought  back  some  Sunday  in  496e646961.  Himself  a  child  on  a  bicycle.  Dusk,  nearly  dark.  Groups  of  young     men  sitting  on  the  ground  near  a  closed  library,  reading  and  talking  by  the  light  of  flares  in  petrol  cans.  His  stepson,  Simon,  a  tall  stockbrok-  er,  guffawed  for  no  obvious  reason  and  kicked  the  chin  of  a  sleeping  dog  off  a  pile  of  Thomas's  books,  although  he  didn't  goon  to  pick  up  any  of  the  spilled  books.  &quot;It'll  be  Monday  all  too  soon,&quot;  Sara  said,  with  the  brotherly  grimness  that  Thomas  had  learned  to  read  in  her  as  a  style  of  intimacy.  Now  she  was  doing  household  accounts  and  checking  the  milk  bill.  She  looked  fatigued  and  drawn.  He  loved  her,  and  wished  to  save  her  the  frightful  inroads  of  Anglo-  Saxon  activity,  and  hatedher  hat.  She  was  still  wearing  the  ugly  straw  that  she  had  put  on  for  morning  church.  She  had  cooked  the  lunch  in  it.  Thomas  liked  her  hair  and  loathed  all  her  hats.  In  fifty-odd  years  of  high  regard  for  Englishwomen  and  awe  of  the  fortitude  and  grace  he  saw  in  them,  he  had  never  accepted  their  defiling  hats.  Simon's  daughter,  Pippa,  a  beauty  of   six  who  had  one  blue  and  one  green  eye,  swarmed  watchfully  into  the  room  on  her  stomach  with  Thomas's  en-  couragement  and  bounced  up  with  a  war  whoop  behind  the  chairs  of  two  sleeping  visitors.  So  she  was  as  op-  pressed  by  Sunday  as  he  was.  He  ad-  mired  her  for  dealing  with  it  so  ca-  pably.  There  was  an  interlude  of  chaos.  A  pot  of  coffee  was  spilled,  and  Sara  had  to  get  a  damp  cloth  for  the  trousers  of  one  of  the  visitors,  who  was  involved  in  an  unwise  pretense  that  he  hadn't  actually  been  asleep.  Thomas  seemed  to  be  seeing  things  through  the  wrong  end  of  a  telescope.  People  ap-  peared  to  be  very  small,  and  their  voices  were  too  loud  for  their  size.  Pippa  was  much  scolded.  &quot;I've  brought  something  for  Great-  Granny,&quot;  she  said  several  times,  while  the  storm  went  on  around  her  pig-  tailed  head  and  finally  spent  itself.  She  heard  her  father  and  Sara  out,  and  meanwhile  held  the  present  in  her  closed  hand.  After  five  minutes,  Simon  attended  to  what  she  was  saying  and  assumed  a  look  of  astuteness.  &quot;Have  you  got  something  in  your  hand?&quot;  he  asked.  Pause.  &quot;Something  for  Great-Gran-  ny?&quot;  he  carried  on  shrewdly.  &quot;Let's  have  a  look  at  it,  in  case  it's  one  of  the  things  Great-Granny  doesn't  eat.&quot;  He  triedto  force  open  her  fingers.  &quot;Let  Daddy  tell  you.  You're  old  enough  to  know  by  now  that  in  the  country  where  Great-Granny  comes  from  they  don't  eat  some  of  the  things  we  eat.  It's  not  that  they're  fussy,  it's  because  they  think  it's  wrong.  You  know  that  now,  don't  you,  Pippa?&quot;  You  told  me  before,&quot;  said  Pippa.  &quot;Ah,  yes,  you  see;  it's  a  chocolate.  So  we're  all  right.  I  thought  so.  Why  didn't  you  show  it  to  me  in  the  first  place?  Run  and  give  it  to  Great-Gran-  ny,&quot;  he  said,  some  time  after  Pippa  was  already  there.  &quot;Granny,  Pippa's  brought  you  a  special  chocolate,&quot;  he  went  on,  some  time  after  theold  lady  had  thanked  the  child.  Thomas's  mother  was  named  Arathra  Chib.  Although  his  father  had  acknowledged  the  son  in  due  time-  when  the  boy  grew  up  to  be  phenom-  enally  educable-he  had  never  married  Miss  Chib.  She  had  stayed  in  a  496e646961  shack  made  of  biscuit  tins  and  a  tar-  paulin.  Mr.  Flitch,  not  a  bad  man,  had  worked  most  of  his  life  in  496e646961  in  the  tea  business.  When  his  bastard  turned  out  to  be  studious,  the  boy  was  accepted  into  the  English  bachelor's  house  for  a  short  time  before  he  was  shipped  off  to  prep  school  and  public  school  in  his  fa-  ther's  country.  He  spent  the  holidays  in  " b"   England  with  any  parents  who  would  have  him,  If  nothing  worked  out,  he  lived  in  the  empty  school.  Some  master,  equally  lonely,  would  be  set  to  giving  him  extra  essays  and  physical  training  to  keep  him  occupied.  Thomas  bore  England  no  grudge  for  the  youth  it  dealt  him;  on  the  contrary.  After  get-  ting  a  double  first  at  Oxford  he  married  Sara,  scarcelyable  to  believe  his  luck.  She  was  a  pretty  young  widow  with  a  small  son,  and  Thomas  went  to  law  to  give  the  little  boy  his  own  surname.  &quot;Well  done,  Pippa.  Chocolates  are  perfectly  safe,&quot;  Simon  said  laboriously  in  the  direction  of  the  wheelchair.  Thomas  was  already  in  the  grip  of  a  disorder  not  at  all  native  to  him,  and  now  he  suddenly  confounded  every-  thing  he  believed  he  felt  for  Simon  by  remembering  with  hatred  one  of  his  adopted  son's  practical  jokes.  Some  like  Sunday  long  ago,  the  child  Simon  had  crept  up  to  his  496e646961n  step-grandmoth-  er  when  she  was  asleep  in  the  same  wheelchair  and  thrown  a  blanket  over  her,  shouting  that  she  was  a  canary  in  a  cage.  Thomas  had  kept  the  memory  at  arm's  length  until  now,  when  it  oc-  curred  to  him  that  Simon's  sensibility  had  not  much  changed.  The  insight  cracked  Thomas's  heart  slightly  before  he  got  rid  of  it  again.  His  mother's  vegetarianism  had  been  carefully  respected  at  lunch,  with  the  usual  faint  suggestion  that  it  was  aber-  rant  and  therefore  embarrassing,  al-  though  Sara  did  try  to  conceal  her  opin-  ion.  Before  the  apple  charlotte,  Miss  Chib  was  given  a  bowl  of  peasoup  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  it.  Thomas  had  noticed  the  cream,  which  represented  effort.  It  also  represented  license,  an  unusual  small  expense  on  a  treat  beyond  the  necessities  of  Sara's  food  budget.  Though  Thomas  was  greatly  revered  he  had  never  been  well  off,  and  now  that  he  had  retired  from  government  advisory  jobs  he  earned  nothing  much  except  by  writing.  Simon,  who  was  well  on  his  way  to  be-  coming  a  millionaire  through  his  deal-  ings  on  the  stock  exchange,  had  leaned  over  his  pleasant  young  wife  to  peer  at  his  step-grandmother's  plate.  &quot;I  say,&quot;  he  said  jovially,  &quot;I  see  my  mama's  been  lashing  out  a  bit.&quot;  Thomas's  house,  which  he  could  barely  keep  up,  was  run  mostly  on  the  income  from  a  small  chain  of  modern  toy  shops  that  he  had  built  up  for  his  wife  over  the  years.  He  had  given  her  the  capital  for  the  first  one  on  their  twentieth  wedding  anniversary,  when  he  had  already  bought  a  Georgian  pendant  that  he  dearly  wished  her  to  have,  but  before  he  chanced  giving  it  to  her  he  had  asked  her  what  she  would  like,  and  she  told  him.  She  had  ideas  about  how  atoy  shop  should  be  run  in  these  times.  Strong  plastics,  instructive  building  toys,  things  that  would  save  women  trouble.  After  a  long  while  of  keeping  the  pendant  hidden  and  un-  looked  at  in  his  sock  drawer,  Thomas  had  to  bring  himself  to  hunt  for  some-  one  to  buy  it  back,  for  he  couldn't  af-  ford  both  presents.  He  got  nothing  like  the  price  of  it.  But  Sara's  idea  had  ob-  viously  been  the  better  one,  he  told  himself,  though  without  believing  a  word  of  it,  for  where  would  they  all  be  now  without  &quot;Mama's  business  ven-  ture,&quot;  as  his  stepson  warmly  pointed  out  to  him  on  a  walk  round  the  garden  this  afternoon.  &quot;Why  don't  you  let  me  take  over  the  accounts?&quot;  Simon  said.  37  &quot;What  accounts?&quot;  Thomas  asked,  sheltering  in  slow-wittedness.  He  seemed  to  be  fending  something  off.  Nothing  he  was  doing  was  like  him-  self,  and  Simon  looked  at  him  oddly  before  poking  a  black  pig  in  the  belly.  &quot;'You  should  keep  more  pigs  and  run  the  place  as  a  farm,&quot;  Simon  said.  &quot;And  all  this  could  be  plowed  up,  too.&quot;  He  gestured  across  the  lawn  that  ran  down  to  a  stream  and  then  up  again  to  his  own  cottage,  which  Thomas  had  given  him  as  a  wedding  present.  &quot;The  expenses  of  this  place  are  ridiculous.  Mama's  a  Trojan,  but  she's  looking  pretty  whacked.&quot;  &quot;She  needs  more  help.  I  must  see  about  more  help.&quot;  &quot;As  I  say,  I  could  do  the  papers  of  the  business.  You  wear  yourself  out  with  them.&quot;  &quot;They  seem  to  be  taking  longer  at  the  moment.  You  wouldn't  have  time.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  could  do  them  on  the  train  to  the  City  some  morning  every  week.&quot;  That  fast?  He  probably  could.  Simon  looked  around  at  the  bigger  house  with  an  alert  eye.  &quot;This  place  is  potentially  a  gold  mine.  It's  madness  to  run  it  as  a  private  house.  If  you  turned  it  into  a  business,  you  could  keep  six  maids  and  gardeners  if  you  wanted  and  write  them  off  against  the  pigs.  Or  whatever  else  you  went  in  for.  Mama's  been  talking  of  sugar  beet.&quot;  [REDACTED]  beet?  [REDACTED]  beet  hadn't  come  up.  Thomas  steadied  his  eyes  on  the  Tudor  stable  yard  and  his  library  win-  dow.  &quot;I  won't  have  it,&quot;  he  said,  shak-  ing.  &quot;Buck  up,  Father.  Nobody  thinks  it's  your  fault.  You're  one  ofthe  world's  thinkers.  Been  doing  much  writing?&quot;  Thomas  lied,  against  his  tempera-  " b"38  ment.  &quot;Quite  a  bit.&quot;  Pause.  &quot;Prelim-  inaries.&quot;  Oh,  come  off  it.  But  the  ground  seemed  to  be  moving  away.  He  felt  as  if  Simon  were  lifting  him  by  the  collar  and  dangling  him  so  that  his  feet  were  off  the  earth  and  his  toes  straining  to  reach  something.  Simon's  big  head  and  loose  mouth  loomed  above  him  against  the  ridiculous  Eng-  lish  summer  sky,  which  was  the  color  of  iron.  'Your  last  book  was  very  impres-  sive,&quot;  Simon  said.  &quot;Prunella  and  I  both  thought  so.  Reflected  glow,  you  know.&quot;  He  blew  his  nose  on  a  red  spotted  handkerchief  that  he  wore  in  yeoman  moods.  &quot;A  bit  above  my  level,  I'm  afraid,  some  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh  dear.  Was  it  hard  to  follow?&quot;  Thomas  asked,  taking  him  to  mean  what  he  said.  &quot;Which  passages?&quot;  But  Simon  had  never  got  beyond  page  27,  and  after  that  he  had  merely  left  the  book  out  in  case  his  mother  and  stepfather  came  un-  expectedly  for  drinks.  So  now  he  was  at  a  disadvantage,  which  angered  him,  and  he  lost  sight  of  the  gratitude  he  usually  summoned  up  for  the  step-  father  who  had  spent  much  of  his  life  obliging  his  adopted  son's  ambi-  tion  for  parents  with  a  big  house  and  a  dashing  car.  At  many  moments  of  weakness,  or  love,  Thomas  had  spent  far  more  money  than  he  could  afford  or  even  wished  for  the  sake  of  Simon's  joy  in  the  holidays.  The  days  when  he  could  do  it,  or  would,  were  now  over.  Their  town  house  had  been  sold,  lin-  geringly,  with  rearguard  modernizing  actions  to  keep  up  its  price.  The  even-  tual  loss  kept  Thomas  awake  at  night.  For  the  present,  in  the  daytime,  he  was  abruptly  fed  up  with  the  lot:  himself,  his  insufficiency,  the  toll  that  his  finan-  cial  state  seemed  to  be  taking  of  his  wife,  and  the  colossally  polite  head  of  his  stepson,  hanging  over  him  now  as  if  it  had  a  miniature  keg  of  brandy  around  its  neck.  &quot;Men  are  not  made  better  by  ca-  lamity,&quot;  he  said.  At  the  same  time,  he  was  engaged  in  disliking  his  own  state  of  intellect  at  the  moment,  which  ap-  peared  to  own  no  responsibility  for  the  production  of  that  sentence  and  buzzed  around  small  problems  without  much  resource  or  repose.  &quot;What's  that  from?  Is  it  an  496e646961n  saying?&quot;  &quot;What?  No.  Where  was  she  think-  ing  of  putting  the  sugar  beet?&quot;  &quot;Hey,  I  say,  chin  up.  No  calamity  in  this  house,  eh?  Mama's  full  of  beans.&quot;  &quot;She's  very  tired.&quot;     &quot;'Takeher  to  the  sun.  Take  her  to  [REDACTED],  A  friend  of  mine's  got  a  yacht.  You  could  charter  it.&quot;  &quot;It  would  be  rather  ludicrous.&quot;  When  we  can't  afford  someone  to  clean  the  house,  Thomas  added  silently.  &quot;I  could  do  it  on  the  firm  and  it  wouldn't  cost  anybody  anything.  A  con-  ference  yacht.&quot;  Simon  laughed  loudly.  &quot;Mama  could  be  entertaining  foreign  buyers.  I  do  think  you  should  let  me  go  into  the  pigs.&quot;  Thomas  told  Simon  to  leave.  He  said  he  had  work  to  do.  Simon  walked  down  to  the  stream  and  across  the  bridge  to  his  own  cottage,  waving  with  his  usual  cordiality,  which  was  unfailing  because  it  depended  on  no  cordial  im-  pulse.  Thomas  came  back  past  the  drawing  room.  He  could  see  his  mother,  playing  with  Pippa,  and  his  wife  talking  to  a  woman  friend  by  the  window.  Thomas  looked  at  them  all,  and  then  at  Simon,  who  was  now  a  small  figure  and  in  another  sense  no  longer  monstrous,  because  he  was  walking  exactly  as  he  had  done  when  he  was  a  very  young  child  and  most  moving  to  Thomas,  with  his  hands  in  his  pockets  and  his  back  arched.  The  fa-  miliarity  of  everyone  eased  the  strange-  ness  in  Thomas's  head.  I  wish  I  had  them  all  here,  he  thought.  I  wish  we  were  together.  I  wish  we  were  having  a  picnic,  and  that  it  was  hot,  and  I  do  indeed  wish  that  we  were  all  together;  though  even  if  I  were  to  hold  the  whole  world  against  my  chest,  it  would  probably  save  us  from  very  little.  The  longing  was  unaccustomed.  He  came  to  the  drawing-room  window,  which  was  open.  His  mind  had  at  last  found  its  way  back  to  its  usual  cast  when  he  heard  Sara's  friend  talking  to  her.  &quot;...  start  bestirring  himself,  for  heaven's  sake.  Leaving  you  to  do  ev-  erything.  What's  a  brilliant  mind-&quot;  &quot;He  is  brilliant,  that's  so,&quot;  Sara  said  over  her.  &quot;But  he's  never  made  the  career  he  could  have  done.  He  won't  use  his  elbows.&quot;  But  I  am  not  that  man,  Thomas  thought,  shivering  in  a  heapon  the  flower  bed  where  he  had  dropped  onto  all  fours  soas  not  to  be  seen.  I  am  not  that  man,  he  thought  again,  straightening  up  now,  for  in  the  next  instant  it  seemed  entirely  necessary  that  he  should  not  hide,  should  visibly  walk  to  the  front  door  and  into  his  library.  I  will  not  be  that  man.  He  sat  behind  his  desk  for  a  long  time,  skipping  Sun-  day's  cold-mutton  supper,  rousing  him-  self  to  say  goodbye  to  the  visitors,  try-  ing  to  deal  with  the  paperwork  of  MARCH  14,  1970  Sara's  business.  Wholesale  and  retail  prices,  markups,  running  expenses,  em-  ployment  insurance.  Nausea.  Sara,  beautiful  Sara,  appeared  in  the  accounts  as  the  manageress.  Deductible,  to  be  candid.  No.  Once  not.  She  had  left  samples  of  toys  and  plastic  playthings  among  his  books  and  manuscripts.  Garbage.  Her  piercing,  household  face  swam  across  his  eyeline,  even  more  changed  from  its  former  self  than  now,  and  hermetic  in  its  enthusiasm  for  nursery  objects  properly  researched  by  child  psychiatrists  to  be  fit  for  the  middle-class  children  who  would  lose  them  without  a  pang.  There  was  a  pale-pink  celluloid  rattle  on  his  desk.  It  was  decorated  with  an  overdressed  pale-blue  rabbit  in  non-toxic  paint.  Long  ago,  he  had  found  Simon  a  Hindu  rattle  made  of  chased  silver  with  an  ivory  handle  shaped  for  a  child  to  hold.  What  shall  we  leave  be-  hind  us,  he  thought.  He  stared  at  a  Rajput  scene  on  the  wall  among  his  books.  &quot;Won't  use  his  elbows.&quot;  I  know  as  little  of  love  as  I  do  of  paint-  ing,  he  thought.  The  days  of  smoking  a  pipe  suddenly  came  back  to  him,  and  he  realized  that  he  was  biting  down  on  his  own  teeth.  His  mind  seemed  to  beacting  like  mercury.  He  saw  it  slipping  around  in  apool  and  then  dividing  into  drops  that  ran  apart.  He  leaned  back  often  for  a  rest  and  once  he  got  up  to  type  an  envelope  on  an  old  typewriter  in  the  window.  The  type-  writer  had  been  made  in  496e646961  many  years  ago,  copied  from  an  English  [REDACTED]  and  reproduced  in  every  detail  except  forthe  vital  spring  to  drive  the  keys  back.  In  the  machine's  heyday,  the  deficiency  had  not  been  regarded  as  crippling.  Labor  was  cheap,  time  ran  slow,  and  a  girl  sat  beside  the  man  typist  to  return  each  key  by  hand  as  he  pressed  it.  Thomas  had  grown  up  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  machine  and  one  day  he  had  bought  it,  bringing  it  to  England  by  boat  and  vaguely  in-  tending  to  explore  the  possibility  of  sup-  plying  a  spring,  though  he  also  liked  it  well  as  it  still  was.  He  delayed  going  upstairs  for  as  long  as  possible,  partly  in  a  hopeless  pretense  of  getting  the  papers  finished  with,  and  partly  to  avoid  Sara.  But  she  was  lying  awake.  He  guessed  her  to  be  worrying  about  money.  Temper  de-  feated  pity  and  he  attacked  her  rabidly  for,  of  all  things,  going  to  herAngli-  can  church.  It  appeared  to  him  sud-  denly  that  there  was  a  link  between  her  flouted  ambition  for  him  and  the  ethic  of  a  religion  more  alien  to  his  own  thought  than  he  had  ever  dreamed,  He  sounded  to  himself  like  some  ten-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  dentious  student  with  balloon  words  coming  out  of  his  mouth.  &quot;Jesus  was  the  first  Catholic  and  therefore  the  first  Mr.  Success  of  the  profit  motive,&quot;  he  said,  putting  on  his  dressing  gown  and  feeling  foolish.  &quot;Christianity  and  capitalism  are  in-  separable.  Why  do  you  go?  Why  do  you  spoil  Sundays?&quot;  Sara  said,  &quot;You're  not  well.  You're  losing  your  grip.&quot;  She  watched  him  quite  carefully.  She  got  up.  &quot;I  daresay.  We  can't  stay  in  this  house.  We  simply  can't  keep  it  up.&quot;  She  was  quiet.  So  he  snarled.  &quot;Does  it  mean  that  much  to  you?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  think?&quot;  Now  the  rage  poured  out:  All  these  years,  our  things,  deserve,  owe,  our  time  of  life,  all  we've  been  through.  Help,  he  thought.  I  can't  go  on.  I  can't  manage  any  of  it.  Earn,  she  threw  at  him.  Relearn,  he  thought,  adding  the  first  three  letters  to  her  word  in  his  head  as  if  they  were  playing  a  game.  &quot;Church!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;You  never  shout,&quot;  she  said,  staring  at  him.  &quot;You  spoil  Sundays!&quot;  &quot;Socrates  was  the  first  man  who  thought  about  thinking,&quot;  she  said,  sit-  ting  on  the  window  seat  and  surprising  him  in  every  way.  &quot;Uh?&quot;  he  said  over  her.  &quot;Jesus  may  have  been  the  first  man  who  understood  the  power  of  some  ac-  tions.  The  power  of  forgiving  an  en-  emy,  for  instance.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  me,  don't  you?&quot;  He  held  his  head.  N  Monday,  when  Sara  had  left  the  house  early  to  see  to  things  in  two  of  the  toy  shops  on  the  other  side  of  the  county,  he  could  find  nothing  at  home  that  he  felt  up  to  doing.  He  drove  to  a  caf\xc3\xa9  in  the  nearby  market  town  and  simply  listened  to  pacify  himself.  It  was  a  teashop,  with  one  half  that  sold  honey  and  homemade  scones  and  the  other  with  tables  where  the  walls  were  decorated  with  a  mix-  tureof  horse  brasses  and  psychedelic  posters.  One  of  the  middle-aged  wom-  en  who  kept  the  shop  had  ordered  a  set  of  posters  about  the  [REDACTED]  rising  of  May,  1968,  because  she  had  gone  to  the  Sorbonne  to  study  when  she  was  a  girl.  The  teashop  was  next  door  to  one  of  Sara's  branches.  Remorse  had  drawn  Thomas  there  and  it  kept  him  pinned,  though  he  was  also  wild  for  flight.  An  arthritic  woman  came  into  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  alone,  with  a  paper  bag  carrying  the  name  ofSara's  shop.  &quot;You  feel  safer  at  home  than  what  you  do  further  away,&quot;  she  said  after  a  long  silence,  addressing  no  one,  &quot;Fur-  ther  away  you  might  bea  nuisance.&quot;  Unplaced  impatience  felt  like  burrs  on  Thomas's  skin.  He  leaned  over  to  her  and  said,  &quot;No,  you  should  get  out  and  about  more,&quot;  which  affronted  her.  He  had  broken  the  fourth  wall.  In  the  late  afternoon,  slow  to  go  home,  he  dropped  in  on  an  elderly  doc-  tor  friend  and  played  tennis.  His  hands  shook  and  his  friend  prescribed  a  seda-  tive.  &quot;Work  a  strain  at  the  minute?&quot;  said  the  doctor,  watching.  &quot;'That  sort  of  thing.&quot;  0  39  &quot;'Take  two  a  day,&quot;  said  the  doctor.  &quot;Sleeping  all  right?&quot;  The  whole  cir-  cumstance  startled  him.  He  expected  limitless  serenity  of  a  man  half  496e646961n,  and  indeed  Thomas  had  sustained  the  expectation  for  twenty  years  or  more.  &quot;Mostly,&quot;  Thomas  said.  &quot;Let  me  know.  Keep  in  touch.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  concentrate.  I  don't  under-  stand  myself.  Sara's  being  a  brick.&quot;  &quot;Your  English  is  more  English  than  mine,&quot;  the  doctor  said,  not  really  to  make  conversation  but  to  find  more  time  to  see.  Thomas's  mind  seemed  to  be  elsewhere,  and  there  was  no  per-  functory  laugh  in  return.  The  doctor  was  concerned  enough     " b"about  him  to  trail  him  on  a  journey  that  Thomas  then  made  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  He  merely  sat  at  the  coffee  counter  there,  hour  after  hour,  alone.  The  talk  of  strangers  alleviated  some-  thing.  At  one  point,  he  inquired  at  the  Air-496e646961  desk  and  made  a  booking.  Then  he  went  back  to  thecoffee  count-  er,  where  two  girls  were  talking  about  pop  singers.  &quot;I  wouldn't  mind  marrying  Paul,&quot;  said  the  blond  girl  of  the  pair.  She  had  a  beautifully  highforehead  and  an  upper  lip  that  twitched  softly,  like  a  cow's  in  a  fly-ridden  summer.  &quot;Paul?&quot;  said  her  freckled  friend.  &quot;Ringo  any  day.&quot;  &quot;I  think  Paul's  sweet.&quot;  &quot;Ringo's  more  ofa  husband.  More  masterful.&quot;  &quot;Well,  if  you're  talking  about  mas-  terful,&quot;  the  blonde  said  vaguely.  &quot;Don't  you  want  to  be  mastered?&quot;  &quot;Not  much.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  a  marriage  with  Ringowould  work  if  he  wasn't  the  master.&quot;  &quot;There's  always  divorce.&quot;  They  paused,  and  then  the  freckled  girl  said,  &quot;What  about  the  cooking?  I  can't  see  me  cooking.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  mind  doing  Paul  a  steak,&quot;  said  the  blonde.  &quot;Or  spaghetti.  As  long  as  it  wasn't  fish  with  the  eves  left  in,  ora  chicken.  Not  a  whole  chicken.  Nothing  with  innards.&quot;  &quot;Would  you  look  after  him  if  he  was  ill?  That's  what  I'd  have  to  do  for  Ringo,  you  know.  I  wouldn't  mind.  I  should  think  he'd  be  very  demanding.  Anyone  in  the  public  eye.&quot;  &quot;Paul's  kept  his  sincerity.  He's  not  spoilt.&quot;  Thomas  quietly  bought  them  another  cup  of  coffee  each,  and  they  giggled  when  they  realized  it  and  clinked  the  thick  coffee  mugs  with  him  before  carrying  on  with  their  conversation  as  if  he  weren't  there.  &quot;What  sort  of  ill,  anyway?&quot;  said  the  blonde.  &quot;Sick,  say,&quot;  saidfreckles.  Thomas  saw  Sara  in  his  mind's  eye.  She  was  never  ill,  but  now  she  looked  beaten  and  angered  by  something  he  must  be  doing  to  her.  For  richer,  for  poorer.  &quot;What  sort  of  sick?  English  sick  or  American  sick?&quot;  said  the  blonde.  &quot;What's  the  difference,  then?&quot;  &quot;Cor,  don't  you  know  that?  Ameri-  can  sick  is  just  ill.  When  they  mean  English  sick,  they  say  throw-up  sick  or  sick  to  your  stomach.&quot;  &quot;English  sick.&quot;  &quot;Come  to  think  of  it,  'd  look  after  him  anyway.  So  long  as  he  didn't  carry  on  about  it.  You  wouldn't  catch  Paul  carrying  on.&quot;  They  ran  for  their  plane,  thanking  Thomas  for  the  coffee.  He  missed  them  and  paced  around  and  made  another  booking  at  the  Air-496e646961  counter,  stall-  ing  grandly  about  actually  buying  the  ticket  without  even  noticing  that  the  people  on  duty  were  the  ones  who  had  humored  him  before.  After  a  time,  his  doctor  friend  had  seen  enough  of  his  MARCH  14,  1970  extremity  and  took  him  for  a  drink  in  the  airport  bar.  &quot;Funny,  meeting  you,&quot;  Thomas  said,  re-  fusing  any  ordinary  guess  that  it  could  be  no  accident.  &quot;Off  somewhere?&quot;  said  the  doctor.  Thomas  suddenly  started  to  shake  so  bad-  ly  that  the  ice  in  his  glass  chattered.  He  fished  the  cubes  out  and  put  them  into  an  ashtray  and  found  it  all  he  could  do  not  to  weep  at  the  mess  they  made  with  the  ash.  &quot;You  need  help,&quot;  his  friend  said.  &quot;What  for?&quot;  Thom-  as  said.  &quot;The  pills  will  do  the  trick.  It's  mostly  that  I  can't  sleep.&quot;  &quot;'There  are  things  that  pills  don't  do  so  well  as  a  rest  and  treatment.  You  need  a  rest.&quot;  A  county  hospital  treated  Thomas  that  week  for  acute  depression.  He  was  greatly  humiliated.  He  was  also  in  fear.  To  the  family,  who  were  breezy,  re-  ferring  to  &quot;Daddy's  trouble,&quot;  he  re-  vealed  nothing.  Sara  drove  him  scorn-  fully  to  the  hospital  three  times  a  week,  for  he  wasn't  supposed  to  drive.  Ths  on  top  of  everything  else,  she  seemed  to  be  thinking,  although  she  did  what  she  might  to  eliminate  exhaustion  and  scorn  from  her  voice.  On  the  car  jour-  ney,  which  took  an  hour  and  a  half  each  way,  he  would  talk  to  her  with  all  the  will  he  could  muster  about  the  toy  shops.  It  was  barely  manageable.  He  found  it  impossible  to  believe  that  he  had  ever  been  able  to  write  a  book,  or  give  a  lecture,  or  advise  a  government.  Other  scholars  heard  that  he  was  un-  well  and  sent  him  notes  made  remote  by  their  instinct  that  his  straits  must  mortify  him.  Sara  felt  many  things,  in-  cluding  affection,  balked  control,  trou-  ble  over  his  loss  of  weight,  and  enmity  toward  one  of  the  weak.  Sometimes  she  tried  talking  to  him  about  496e646961,  with  a  genuine  impulse  to  do  what  she  could.  She  did  not  feel  shame,  or  any  sense  of  partaking  in  the  very  view  of  life  that  was  nearly  extinguishing  him.  AT  the  end  of  the  hospital  treatment  they  went  away  to  the  Caribbean  on  holiday,  by  an  airplanethat  be-  longed  to  a  director  of  Simon's  firm.  An  old  friendof  Thomas's  lived  on  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  the  island,  but  he  was  a  Negro  poli-  tician  with  a  mind  in  the  world  that  Thomas  had  lost  forthe  moment.  Sara  had  letters  to  people  who  owned  polo  ponies  and  valuable  land  for  de-  velopment.  So  Thomas  played  bridge  with  them,  and  swam,  and  learned  to  use  an  aqualung.  He  began  to  feel  like  a  king,  more  or  less.  Or  fit,  at  the  least.  One  day  he  slipped  off  alone,  out  of  interest,  to  look  up  a  local  doc-  tor,  who  took  him  on  a  tour  of  hos-  pitals.  Maternity  wards  with  two  wom-  en  to  a  bed.  Children  with  rickets.  He  didn't  tell  Sara  much  of  it.  When  they  got  back  to  England  Simon  had  a  surprise  waiting.  He  had  exchanged  houses  with  them.  Sara  and  Thomas  were  to  be  in  the  cottage,  and  Simon's  household  of  three  in  Thom-  as's  place.  The  point  was  the  running  expenses.  Most  of  the  move  had  been  accomplished  already.  Sara  knew  of  it.  &quot;We  didn't  tell  you,  because  you  were  too  ill,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  decided  to  wait,  so  that  there  was  a  secret  for  you  when  you  came  back.  When  youwere  your  old  self.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  fine  idea,&quot;  Thomas  said  to  her,  expounding  it  to  himself  and  mean-  time  walking  around  Simon's  cottage  with  resentment  for  every  stone  of  the  place.  &quot;They're  an  expanding  fam-  ily.  There's  less  work  for  you  to  do  here.  It's  very  good  of  him.  Where  will  I  work?&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you'd  be  relieved.  The  financial  burden.  Young  shoulders.  Besides,  he  can  write  a  lot  of  it  off  against  tax,  you  know.  So  it's  better  in  every  way.&quot;  (W  here  will  I  work?)  &quot;It's  very  good  of  him,&quot;  he  said,  going  across  to  the  window  to  look  at  their  house  and  then  turning  away  in  pain.  He  went  on  to  bump  his  head  on  a  beam.  His  state  of  mind  was  so  much  lighter  than  before  that  he  laughed.  &quot;If  Z  hit  my  head,  at  five  foot  nine,  no  wonder  Simon  wanted  to  switch,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  has  nothing  to  do  with  his  height,&quot;  Sara  said  stiffly.  HE  only  things  left  to  be  moved  were  Thomas's  books.  The  Sun-  day  after  they  came  back  from  the  West  Indies,  he  and  Sara  and  his  mother-who  was  living  with  them  now  in  a  room  not  much  larger  than  a  cupboard,  although  the  view,  as  Si-  mon  constantly  said,  was  stagger-  ing-went  formally  to  lunch  in  their  old  house.  Sara  started  off  in  her  hat,  left  on  from  church.  &quot;For  heaven's  sake,  take  your  hat  off,&quot;  Thomas  said.  &quot;Do  you  need  one  of  your  pills,  dear?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  just  hate  your  hat.  We're  going  to  our  own  house,  aren't  we?  We're  not  going  out.&quot;  &quot;We  are  going  out.  You've  got  to  adjust.  The  doctor  said  that  about  the  income.&quot;  This  was  the  way  she  spoke  of  it:  &quot;The  income.&quot;She  meant  his  earnings,  not  the  yield  ofthetoy-  shop  business,  but  she  had  never  been  in  the  habit  of  referring  to  them  so  distinctly,  let  alone  to  the  fact  that  they  were  thin  on  the  ground  at  the  moment.  &quot;We  are  going  out.  We're  lunching  with  Simon  and  Prunella  in  their  new  home.&quot;  He  threw  a  bottleful  of  his  pills  into  the  kitchen  sink  and  triedto  get  them  to  go  down  the  drain  with  the  handle  of  a  dishmop.  &quot;I  hate  the  word  home,'&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  like  'doggy.'  The  place  is  a  house.&quot;  &quot;It  is  my  language,&quot;  Sara  said.  She  saw  then  that  saying  this  had  been  un-  pardonable,  but  the  odd  thing  was  that  he  did  pardon  her,  and  laughed,  and  quietly  fished  some  of  the  soggy  pills  out  of  the  sink  in  case  he  fancied  one  later  after  all.  Simon  was  sitting  in  Thomas's  arm-  chair,  which  was  too  big  to  be  moved  to  the  cottage.  Prunella  had  nicely  been  trying  to  prise  him  out  of  it  before  they  came,  but  she  was  timid  of  him.  &quot;Better  not  to  make  an  is-  sue  of  it  by  my  shifting,&quot;  Simon  said.  &quot;No  need  to  treat  him  like  an  invalid.&quot;     41  At  lunch,  where  there  were  maids  to  serve,  Sara  kept  watching  Thomas's  plate.  &quot;Eat  up,&quot;  she  said  when  he  left  something.  &quot;No,  thanks.&quot;  &quot;The  stomach  shrinks.  He's  doing  very  well.  He's  put  on  six  pounds,&quot;  she  told  the  table.  She  looked  splendid  herself,  said  the  table.  She  did.  But  it  seemed  to  Thomas  that  she  was  too  doughty  for  him,  somehow,  and  the  hat  finished  it.  For  years  and  years,  her  frailer  beauty  had  made  him  feel  physically  famished  for  her,  but  he  had  generally  subdued  the  longing  be-  cause  she  seemed  worn  out  with  house-  work.  And  now  she  was  as  strong  as  a  cart  horse,  and  he  didn't  give  a  damn.  He  suddenly  felt  farcically  drawn  to  Simon's  Prunella,  which  seemed  a  sign  of  health  if  nothing  else.  &quot;What's  the  joke?&quot;  Prunella  said  gently.  &quot;'There's  a  Russian  story  about  a  peasant  who  dreams  night  after  night  of  having  a  bow!  of  cherry  jam  and  no  spoon  to  eat  it  with.  And  then  at  last  he  goes  to  bed  with  a  spoon,  and  he  doesn't  dream.&quot;  Simon  poured  some  port  into  the  Stilton  and  talked  of  a  hot  tip  about  buy-  ing  shares  in  a  firm  called  North-East  Gas  Enterprises  Limited.  Thomas  got  up  at  last  from  his  new  place  in  the  middle  of  the  table,  which  he  had  quite  liked  because  it  had  leg  access  to  a  rung  where  he  could  wriggle  his  feet  when  he  was  bored.  He  went  to  his  old  li-" b"  brary,  and  Pippa  followed  him,  equally  enlivened  to  leave.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  see  my  filthy  sculptures?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Very  much,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'They're  in  your  library.&quot;  They  were  made  in  Plasticine,  and  obviously  based  on  photographs  of  Hindu  sculp-  ture  in  the  art  books  on  his  bottom  shelves.  The  six-year-old  instinct  had  made  them  curiously  abstract,  and  Thomas  was  much  moved.  The  two  were  poring  over  them  when  Simon  came  into  the  room.  He  absorbed  the  little  gray  figures  in  a  few  seconds  and  his  face  bulged.  He  left  the  library  and  came  back  with  a  riding  crop.  Thomas  found  it  hard  to  believe.  He  tried  to  block  things  but  they  went  fast.  The  little  girl  was  held  by  the  back  of  her  bent  neck,  and  the  lash  of  the  crop  swished  down  onto  her  cotton  dress.  When  Thomas  tried  to  grab  the  child  away,  the  lash  caught  him  in  the  eye.  &quot;Stop!&quot;  he  shouted,  reaching  again  for  the  child  and  closing  his  red-hot  eye.  &quot;'You  speak  of  stopping,&quot;  said  Si-  mon.  &quot;You  led  her  on.  Five,  six,  sev-  en.&quot;  It  went  on  to  nine  before  Thomas  put  an  end  to  it.  Simon  by  then  had  heavily  said,  &quot;This  hurts  me  more  than  it  hurts  you&quot;  to  Pippa,  and  when  the  chaos  was  over  Thomas  began  to  laugh,  for  he  had  seen  that  the  lash  of  the  crop  literally  had  curled  round  onto  Simon's  back  between  each  stroke,  probably  quite  stingingly,  though  the  man  had  been  too  excited  to  notice  it.  Picking  up  the  child,  who  was  breath-  ing  in  gulps  like  an  oarsman  at  the  end  of  a  race,  Thomas  bent  down  to  save  her  sculptures  and  carried  her  through  to  her  mother.  &quot;I  want  these  kept  al-  ways,&quot;  he  said,  thrusting  the  figures  at  her  face.  &quot;What  are  they?&quot;  &quot;''They're  sculptures  of  Pippa's.  They're  to  be  kept  in  my  library.  My  books  are  to  stay,  too.  I  have  a  lot  of  work  to  do  and  there  isn't  enough  room  in  the  other  place.&quot;  Sara  said,  &quot;What  was  all  that  noise?&quot;  She  looked  more  closely  at  the  figures  and  turned  away  from  him.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  he  said,  watching  her  and  flooded  by  a  feeling  that  he  had  not  expected.  &quot;You're  not  weeping?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  seem  to  be  any  better  than  before.&quot;  She  bent  a  little  to  lean   her  fists  on  the  window  seat,  with  her  back  to  him.  &quot;You're  not  trying.  You  give  in  to  these  willful  tempers.  You're  not  yourself.  I've  got  more  than  enough  to  do.  You  were  never  like  this.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  am  now.  Simon  beat  Pippa  for  these.&quot;  &quot;No  wonder.&quot;  &quot;He'd  better  have  beaten  me.&quot;  Sara  swung  round,  and  Thomas  was  half  touched  by  the  horror  in  her.  &quot;She  must  have  liked  a  book  of  mine,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;They're  in  that  wretched  old-  fashioned  Plasticine,&quot;  she  went  on,  switching  ground  and  speaking  as  if  that  compounded  things.  &quot;Who  could  have  given  it  to  her?  Prunella  and  I  are  so  careful.  She  has  plenty  of  the  proper  sort.&quot;  &quot;'This  kind  smells  nice,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;One  of  the  points  about  the  new  kind  is  that  it's  odorless.&quot;  &quot;'Smell'!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;Not  'odor.'  You  even  take  away  smells.  Ac-  tually,  I  think  I  probably  gave  her  the  clay.&quot;  &quot;But  we  don't  stock  it.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  got  it  from  an  art  shop.&quot;  In  Sara's  canon  this  was  perfidy.  She  looked  betrayed,  and  tight  around  the  chin.  &quot;You'll  have  to  put  up  with  it,  " b"darling,&quot;  he  said  gaily,  refusing  to  fall  in  with  her  mood.  There  was  a  pause  while  Sara  col-  lected  herself,  and  then  she  said  they  must  go  back  and  do  the  accounts.  &quot;I've  got  some  work  to  do,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes,  we  have.&quot;  &quot;No,  my  own  work.&quot;  &quot;In  that  case  there  are  all  the  books  to  move.&quot;  &quot;I'll  goon  with  it  here.  There's  more  space.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  asked  Simon?&quot;  &quot;Why  the  hell  should  I  ask  Simon?&quot;  A  dam  burst  again:  All  he's  done  for  you.  (Prunella  left  the  room.)  Pickingup  the  pieces  of  your  life  for  you.  A  foreigner  accepted  as  if  you  were  his  own  father.  No  real  son  could  have  done  more.  Difficult  times  for  everyone.  Your  trouble.  Everyone  un-  der  great  strain.  You  didn't  mean.  The  subject  of  Pippa  better  not  discussed  (and  then  discussed  at  length  ).  It  oc-  curred  to  Thomas  as  he  listened  to  her  that  Sara  had  not  changed  a  whit  in  the  whole  time  they  had  been  married.  No  hint  or  taint  of  him  had  touched  her.  She  had  remained  her  strong  Eng-  lish  self,  and  in  truth  she  did  put  up  with  a  good  deal,  for  in  her  terms  a  scholar's  life  must  alwayshave  stood  for  a  life  of  privation,  which  would  ex-  plain  the  furious  resolve  that  clenched  the  lines  in  her  face.  All  the  same,  he  had  work  to  do.  &quot;Before  you  leave,  you'd  better  apologize  to  Simon,&quot;  she  said.  He  left  the  room,  picking  up  the  lit-  tle  erotic  figures  and  locking  them  into  his  desk  drawer.  Sara  followed  him.  &quot;What  are  you  doing?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  are  you  thinking  about?&quot;  She  pursued  him.  -  'Nothing,&quot;  he  said  again,  smiling  at  her,  for  she  was  Sara.  (&quot;Remember  the  nine  tenets  of  resistance  in  a  coun-  try  occupied  by  foreign  forces,&quot;  he  said  to  himself.  &quot;  'We  know  nothing,  we  recognize  nothing,  we  give  nothing,  we  are  capable  ofnothing,  we  under-  stand  nothing,  we  sell  nothing,  we  help  nothing,  we  reveal  nothing,  we  forget  nothing.  &quot;  )  &quot;Doesn't  it  hurt  your  pride?  It  must,&quot;  she  said,  not  unkindly  but  in  a  rare  and  urgent  search  for  a  response  of  any  sort  at  all.  After  contemplation,  he  replied  quite  seriously,  &quot;A  little.  Very  little.  At  first.  Not  now.  I  think  it's  harder  on  you.&quot;  &quot;You've  never  been  properly  rec-  ognized.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  well  paid.&quot;  He  waited.  &quot;To  choose  to  do  the  work  one  wants,  I  suppose  one  will  quite  often  have  to  renounce  the  idea  of  making  a  fortune.  Yes?  I'm  sorry,  my  dear.&quot;  A  few  minutes  before,  he  had  tried  to  add  &quot;We  apologize  for  nothing&quot;  to  the  rules  in  his  head,  but  he  knew  that  Sara  would  always  move  him  to  com-  punction.  Alone  then  in  his  library,  feeling  fine,  his  spirits  began  to  mount.  He  thought  about  some  work,  and  also  about  the  world,  as  he  had  not  since  he  was  in  496e646961.  The  sense  of  being  part  of  a  general  flux  had  been  lost  for  years.  There  grew  in  him  a  wish  to  touch  with  his  fingers  a  future  that  he  knew  was  that  of  many  others.  The  disorder  that  had  seemed  to  him  for  decades  to  determine  the  course  of  events  regrouped  itself  like  a  pile  of  iron  filings  suddenly  organized  by  a  magnet,  and  he  had  a  flash  of  optimism  when  it  appeared  quite  possible  that  men  in  the  days  to  come  might  wish  to  find  out  more  than  concerned  them  at  the  moment.  Probably  this  curiosity  will  be  quite  superficial,  he  thought  to  himself,  as  it  is  in  me  until  I  have  more  time  to  spend  on  it.  But  it  will  be  bet-  ter.  He  considered  for  several  hours,  making  notes  and  getting  up  now  and  then  for  books.  He  felt  he  had  his  hand  on  a  way  to  proceed,  and  one  that  might  beof  some  consequence,  with  luck.  Simon's  heavy  tread  moved  about  upstairs  and  his  voice  shouted  some-  thing  at  a  maid.  He  was  calling  for  a  sherry.  &quot;And  a  tonic  water  with  ice  for  Mr.  Flitch  in  the  library.  No  gin.  He  doesn't  drink.  Remember  that.  Pru,  he  is  still  here,  isn't  he?  He  hasn't  drifted  back  to  his  own  place  yet,  eh?  Do  you  think  we  have  to  offer  him  a  meal?&quot;  Thomas  looked  out  of  the  window.  I'll  leap  into  my  life,  he  thought,  ifit  splits  my  face  to  bits. "