 THE  DEACON  E  passes  the  plate,  and  counts  the  money  afterward-a  tall  dogged-looking  man,  wearing  metal-framed  glasses  that  seem  tight  across  his  face  and  that  bite  into  the  flesh  around  his  eyes.  He  wears  for  Sunday  morning  a  clean  white  shirt,  but  a  glance  downward,  as  you  lay  on  your  thin  envelope  and  pass  the  golden  plate  back  to  him,  discovers  fallen  socks  and  scuffed  shoes.  And  as  he  with  his  fellow-deacons  strides  forward  toward  the  altar,  his  suit  is  revealed  as  the  pants  of  one  suit  (gray)  and  the  coat  of  an-  other  (brown).  He  is  too  much  at  home  here.  During  the  sermon,  he  stares  toward  a  corner  of  the  nave  ceil-  ing,  which  needs  repair,  and  slow-  ly,  reverently,  yet  unmistakably  chews  gum.  He  lingers  in  the  vestibule,  with  his  barking,  possessive  laugh,  when  the  rest  of  the  congregation  has  passed  into  the  sunshine  and  the  dry-mouthed  min-  ister  is  fidgeting  to  be  out  of  his  cassock  and  home  to  lunch.  The  deacon's  car,  a  dusty  Dodge,  is  parked  outside  the  parish  hall  most  evenings.  He  himself  wonders  why  he  is  there  so  often,  how  he  slipped  into  this  ceaseless  round  of  men's  suppers,  Christian  Education  Committee  meetings,  choir  rehearsals,  emergency  sessions  of  the  Board  of  Fi-  nance  where  hours  churn  by  in  irrele-  vant  argument  and  prayerful  silences  that  produce  nothing.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  he  says  to  his  wife  on  returning,  waking  her.  &quot;The  old  fool  refuses  to  amortize  the  debt.&quot;  He  means  the  treasurer.  &quot;His  Eminence  tells  us  foreign  missions  can't  be  applied  to  the  oil  bill  even  if  we  make  it  up  in  the  summer  at  five  per  cent  interest.&quot;  He  means  the  minister.  &quot;It  was  on  the  tip  of  my  tongue  to  ask  whence  he  derives  all  his  business  ex-  pertise.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  resign?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;Let  the  young  people  get  involved  before  they  drop  away.&quot;     &quot;One  more  peace  in  [REDACTED]  sermon,  they'll  drop  away  anyway.&quot;  He  falls  heavily  into  bed,  smelling  of  chewing  gum.  As  with  men  who  spend  nights  away  from  home  drink-  ing  in  bars,  he  feels  guilty,  but  the  motion,  the  brightness  and  excite-  ment  of  the  place  where  he  has  been,  continues  in  him.  The  varnished  old  tables,  the  yellowing  Sunday-school  charts,  the  folding  chairs  and  pocked  linoleum,  the  occasional  laughter,  the  giggles  of  the  children's  choir  leav-  ing,  the  strange  constant  sense  of  dark  sacred  space  surrounding  their  lit  meet-  ing  room  like  the  void  upholding  a  bright  planet.  &quot;One  more  blessing  on  the  Vietcong,&quot;  he  mumbles,  and  the  young  minister's  face,  white  and  worriedly  sucking  a  pipestem,  skids  like  a  vision  of  the  Devil  across  his  plagued  mind.  He  has  a  headache.  The  sides  of  his  nose,  the  tops  of  his  cheeks,  the  space  above  his  ears-wherever  the  frames  of  his  glasses  dig-dully  hurt.  His  wife  snores,  neglected.  In  less  than  seven  hours,  the  alarm  clock  will  ring.  This  must  stop.  He  must  turn  over  a  new  leaf.  His  name  is  Miles.  He  is  over  fifty,  an  electrical  engineer.  Every  seven  years  or  so,  he  changes  employers  and  locations;  it  is  the  new  American  way.  He  has  been  a  member  ofthe  board  of  deacons  of  a  prosperous  Methodist  church  in  [REDACTED],  a  complex  of  dash-  ing  blond  brick-and-glass  buildings  set  in  acres  of  parking  lot  carved  from  a  cornfield;  then  of  a  Presbyterian  church  in  San  Francisco,  gold-rush  Gothic  clinging  to  the  back  of  Nob  Hill,  attended  on  Sundays  by  a  handful  of  Chinese  businessmen  and  prostitutes  in  sunglasses  and  whiskery,  dazed  dropout  youths  looking  for  a  warm  place  in  which  to  wind  up  their  Satur-  day-night  trips;  then  of  another  Pres-  byterian  church  in  New  York  State,  a  dour  granite  chapel  in  a  suburb  of  Schenectady;  and  most  recently,  in  southeastern  [REDACTED],  of  a  crypt-  like  Reformed  church  sunk  among  clouds  of  foliage  so  dense  that  the  lights  are  kept  burning  in  midday  and  the  cobwebbed  balconies  swarm  all  summer  with  wasps.  Though  Miles  has  trav-  elled  far,  he  has  never  broken  out  of  the  loose  net  of  Calvinist  denomina-  tions  that  places  almost  every  Ameri-  can  within  sight  ofa  stumpy  spire.  He  wonders  why.  He  was  raised  in  [REDACTED],  in  a  village  that  had  lost  the  tang  of  the  frontier  but  kept  its  bleak  narrow-  ness,  and  was  confirmed  in  the  same  colorless,  bean-eating  creed  that  mil-  lions  in  his  generation  had  dismissed  forever.  He  was  not,  as  he  understood  " b" the  term,  religious.  Ceremony  bored  him.  He  distinctly  heard  in  the  devo-  tional  service  the  overamplified  tone  of  voicethat  in  business  matters  would  signal  either  ignorance  or  dishonesty.  His  profession  prepared  him  to  believe  that  our  minds,  with  their  crackle  of  self-importance,  are  merely  collections  of  electrical  circuits.  He  saw  noth-  ing  about  his  body  worth  resurrecting.  God,  concretely  considered,  had  a  way  of  merging  with  that  corner  of  the  church  ceiling  that  showed  signs  of  water  leakage.  That  men  should  be  good,  he  did  not  doubt,  or  that  social  order  demands  personal  sacrifice;  but  the  Heavenly  hypothesis,  as  it  had  fallen  upon  his  ears  these  forty  years  of  Sundays,  crushes  us  all  to  the  same  level  of  unworthiness,  and  redeems  us  all  indiscriminately,  elevating  espe-  cially,  these  days,  the  irresponsible-  the  unemployable,  the  riotous,  the  out-  rageous,  the  one  in  one  hundred  that-  strays.  Neither  God  nor  His  ministers  displayed  love  for  'deacons-indeed,  Pharisees  were  the  first  objects  of  their  wrath.  Why  persist,  then,  in  work  so  thoroughly  thankless,  begging  for pledges,  pinching  and  scraping  to  save  crumbling  old  buildings,  facing  rings  of  Sunday-school  faces  baked  to  ada-  mant  cynicism  by  hours  of  television-  watching,  attending  fruitless  meetings  where  the  senile  and  the  frustrated  dominate,  arguing,  yawning,  missing  sleep,  the  company  of  his  wife,the  small,  certain  joys  of  home.  Why?  He  had  wanted  to  offer  his  children  the  Christian  option,  to  begin  them  as  citi-  zens  as  he  had  begun;  but  all  have  left  home  now,  are  in  college  or  married,  and,  as  far  as  he  can  tactfully  gather,  are  unchurched.  So  be  it.  He  has  done  his  part.  NEW  job  offer  arrives,  irresist-  ible,  inviting  him  to  New  Eng-  land.  In  [REDACTED]  the  Fellowship  Society  gives  him  a  farewell  dinner;  his  squad  of  Sunday-school  teacherspre-  sents  him  with  a  pen  set;  he  hands  in  his  laborious  financial  records,  his  neat  minutes  of  vague  proceedings.  He  bows  his  head  for  the  last  time  in  that  dark  sanctuary  smelling  of  moldering  plas-  ter  and  buzzing  with  captive  wasps.  He  is  free.  Their  new  house  is  smaller,  their  new  town  is  white.  He  does  not  join  a  church;  he  stays  home  reading  the  Sunday  paper.  Wincing,  he  flicks  past  religious  news.  He  drives  his  wife  north  to  admire  the  turning  fo-  liage.  His  evenings  are  immense.  He  reads  through  Winston  Churchill's  his-  tory  ofthe  Second  World  War;  he  installs  elaborate  gadgets  around  the  house,  which  now  and  then  give  his  wife  an  electrical  shock.  They  go  to  drive-in  movies,  and  sit  islanded  in  a  sea  of  fornication.  They  go  bowling  and  square  dancing,  and  feel  ridicu-  lous,  too  large  and  heavy  and  slow.  These  years  of  evenings  alone,  she  has  developed  a  time-passing  pattern--  television  shows  spaced  with  spells  of  sewingand  dozing-into  which  he  fits  awkwardly.  She  listens  to  him  grunt  and  sigh  and  grope  for  words.  But  Sunday  mornings  are  the  worst,  blighted  times  haunted  by  the  giddy  swish  and  roar  of  churchward  traffic  on  the  road  outside.  He  stands  by  the  window;  the  sight  of  three  little  girls,  in  white  beribboned  hats,  bluebird  coats,  and  dresses  of  starched  organdie,  scampering  home  from  Sunday  school  " b"40  gives  him  a  pang  unholy  in  its  keenness.  Behind  him  his  wife  says,  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  to  church?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  think  I'll  wash  the  Dodge.&quot;  &quot;You  washed  it  last  Sunday.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  I  should  take  up  golf.&quot;  &quot;You  want  to  go  to  church.  Go.  It's  no  sin.&quot;  &quot;Not  the  Methodists.  Those  bastards  in  [REDACTED]  nearly  worked  me  to  death.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  pretty  white  one  in  the  middle  of  town!:  Congregational.  We've  never  been  Congregationalists;  they'd  let  you  alone.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  sure  you  wouldn't  like  to  take  a  drive?&quot;  &quot;I  get  carsick  with  all  that  starting  and  stopping.  To  tell  the  truth,  it  would  be  a  relief  to  have  you  out  of  the  house.&quot;  Already  he  is  pulling  off  his  sweat-  er,  to  make  way  for  aclean  shirt.  He  puts  on  a  coat  that  doesn't  match  his  pants.  &quot;I'll  go,&quot;he  says,  &quot;but  I'll  be  damned  if  I'll  join.&quot;  He  arrives  late,  and  sits  staring  at  the  ceiling.  It  is  a  wooden  church,  and  the  beams  and  ceiling  boards  in  drying  out  have  pulled  apart.  Above  every  clear-glass  window  he  sees  the  dried-  apple-colored  stains  of  leakage.  At  the  door,  the  minister,  a  very  young  pale  man  with  a  round  moon  face  and  a  know-it-all  pucker  to  his  lips,  clasps  Miles'  hand  as  if  never  to  let  it  go.  &quot;We've  been  looking  for  you.  We  re-  ceiveda  wonderful  letter  about  you  from  your  Reformed  pastor  in  Pennsyl-  vania.  As  you  know,  since  the  U.C.C.  merger  you  don't  even  need  to  be  re-  confirmed.  There's  a  men's  supper  this  Thursday.  We'll  hope  to  see  you  there.&quot;  Some  minister's  hands,  Miles  has  noticed,  grow  fatty  under  the  pres-  sure  of  being  so  often  shaken,  and  others  dwindle  to  the  bones;  this  one's  is  mostly  bones.  The  church  as  a  whole  is  thread-  bare  and  scrawny;  it  makes  no  re-  sistance  to  his  helpless  infiltration  of  the  Men's  Club,  the  Board  of  Finance,  the  Debt  Liquidation  and  Building  Maintenance  Committee.  He  and  a  few  shaggy  Pilgrim  [REDACTED]  paint  the  Sunday-school  chairs  Chinese  red.  He  and  one  grimy  codger  and  three  bottles  of  beer  clean  the  furnace  room  offor-  gotten  furniture  and  pageant  props,  of  warped  hymnals  and  unused  programs  still  tied  in  the  printer's  bundles,  ofthe  gilded  remnants  of  a  dozen  abandoned  projects.  Once  he  attendsa  committee  meeting  to  which  no  one  else  comes.  It  is  a  gusty  winter  night,  anight  of  cold  rain  from  the  sea,  freezing  on  the  roads.  The  minister  has  been  up  all  night  with  the  family  of  a  suicide  and  Moors  cannot  himself  attend;  he  has  dropped  off  the  church  keys  at  Miles'  home.  The  front  door  key,  no  bigger  than  a  car  key,  seems  magically  small  for  so  large  a  building.  Is  it  the  only  one?  Miles  makes  a  mental  note:  have  duplicates  made.  He  turns  on  a  light  and  waits  for  the  others-a  retired  banker  and  two  maiden  ladies.  The  furnace  is  running  gamely,  but  with  an  audible  limp  in  its  stride.  It  is  a  coal  burner  converted  to  oil  twenty  years  ago.  The  old  cast-iron  clinker  grates  are  still  heaped  in  a  corner,  too  heavy  to  throw  out.  Should  be  sold  for  scrap.  Every  penny  counts.  Pinching  and  scraping.  Miles  thinks,  as  upon  a  mystery,  upon  the  prodigality  of  heat-  ing  a  huge  vacant  barn  like  this  with  such  an  inefficient  burner.  Hot  air  rises  direct  from  the  basement  to  the  ceiling,  drying  and  spreading  the  wood.  Fuel  needle  half  gummed  up.  Waste.  Noth-  ing  but  waste,  salvage  and  waste.  And  weariness.  Miles  removes  his  glasses  and  rubs  the  chafed  spots  at  the  bridge  of  his  nose.  He  replaces  them  to  look  at  his     watch.  His  watch  has  stopped,  its  small  face  wet  like  an  excited  child's  from  the  storm.  The  electric  clock  in  the  minister's  study  has  been  unplugged.  Bogus  thrift.  There  are  books:  con-  cordances,  daily  helps,  through  the  year  verse  by  verse,  great  sermons,  best  sermons,  sermon  hints,  all  second-  hand,  no,  third-hand,  worse,  hun-  dredth-hand,  thousandth-hand,  a  coin  rubbed  blank.  The  books  are  lean-  ing  on  their  sides  and  half  the  shelves  are  empty.  Empty.  The  desk  is  clean.  No  business  conducted  on  it.  He  tests  the  minister's  fountain  pen  and  it  is  dry.  Dry  as  an  old  snakeskin,  dry  as  a  locust  husk  that  still  clings  to  a  tree.  In  search  ofthe  time,  Miles  goes  into  the  sanctuary.  The  1880  pendu-  lum  clock  on  the  choir  balustrade  still  ticks.  He  canhear  it  in  the  dark,  over-  head,  He  switches  on  the  nave  lights.  A  moment  passes  before  they  come  on.  Some  shaky  connection  in  the  toggle,  the  wiring  doubtless  rotten  throughout  the  walls,  a  wonder  it  hasn't  burnt  down.  Miles  has  never  belonged  to  a  wooden  church  before.  Around  and  above  him,  like  a  stiff  white  forest,  the  hewn  frame  creaks  and  groans  in  conversation  with  the  wind.  The  high  black  windows,  lashed  as  if  by  handfuls  of  sand,  seem  to  flinch,  yet  do  not  break,  and  Miles  feels  the  timbers  of  this  ark,  with  its  ballast  of  tattered  pews,  give  and  sway  with  the  fierce  weather,  yet  hold;  and  this  is  why  he  has  come,  to  share  the  pride  of  this  ancientthing  that  will  not  quite  die,  to  have  it  all  to  himself.  Warm  air  from  a  grilled  duct  breathes  on  his  ankles,  Miles  can  see  upward  past  the  clock  and  the  organ  to  the  corner  of  the  unused  gallery  where  souvenirs  of  the  church's  past-Puritan  pew  doors,  " b" tin  footwarmers,  velvet  collection  bags,  Victorian  commemorative  albums,  etchings  of  previous  edifices,  cracking  portraits  of  wigged  pastors,  oval  photo-  graphs  of  deceased  deacons,  and  in-  explicable  unlabelled  photographs  of  chubby  cross  children  in  white  stockings  and  buttoned  boots-repose  in  dusty  glass  cases  that  are  in  themselves  an-  tiques.  All  this  anonymous  treasure  Miles  possesses  by  being  here,  like  a  Pharaoh  hidden  with  his  life's  rich  furniture,  while  the  rain  like  a  robber  rattles  to  get  in.  Yes,  the  deacon  sees,  it  is  indeed  a  preparation  for  death-an  emptiness  where  many  others  have  been,  which  is  what  death  will  be.  It  is  good  to  be  at  home  here.  Nothing  now  exists  but  himself,  this  shell,  and  the  storm.  The  windows  clatter;  the  sand  has  turned  to  gravel,  the  rain  has  turned  to  sleet.  The  storm  seizes  the  church  by  its  steeple  and  shakes,  but  the  walls  were  built  with  love,  and  withstand.  The  others  are  very  late,  they  will  not  be  coming;  he  is  not  displeased,  he  is  immensely  serene.  He  turns  out  the  lights.  He  locks  the  door.  "