 THE  PHANTOM  OF  THE  OPERA'S  FRIEND  HAVE  never  visited  him  in  his  sumptuous  quarters  five  levels  be-  low  the  Opera,  across  the  dark  lake.  But  he  has  described  them.  Rich  divans,  exquisitely  carved  tables,  amaz-  ing  silk  and  satin  draperies.  The  large,  superbly  embellished  mantelpiece,  on  which  rest  two  curious  boxes,  one  con-  taining  thefigure  of  a  grasshopper,  the  other  the  figure  of  a  scorpion  ...  He  can,  in  discoursing  upon  his  domestic  arrangements,  become  almost  merry.  For  example,  speaking  of  the  wine  he  has  stolen  from  the  private  cel-  lar  ofthe  Opera's  Board  of  Directors:  &quot;A  very  adequate  Montrachet!  Four  bottles!  Each  director  accusing  every  other  director!  I  tell  you,  it  made  me  feel  like  a  director  myself!  As  if  I  were  worth  two  or  three  millions  and  had  a  fat,  ugly  wife!  And  the  trout  was  admirable.  You  know  what  the  Poles  say-fish,  to  taste  right,  must  swim  three  times:  in  water,  butter,  and  wine.  All  in  all,  a  splendid  evening!&quot;  But  he  immediately  alters  the  mood  by  making  some  gloomy  observation.  &quot;Our  behavior  is  mocked  by  the  be-  havior  of  dogs.&quot;     It  is  not  often  thatthe  accents  of  joy  issue  from  beneath  that  mask.  Monday.  I  am  standing  at  the  place  where  I  sometimes  encounter  him,  a  little  door  at  the  rear  of  the  Opera  (the  building  has  2,531  doors,  to  which  there  are  7,593  keys).  He  always  ap-  pears  &quot;suddenly&quot;-a  coup  de  th\xc3\xa9\xc3\xa9tre  that  is,  to  tell  the  truth,  more  annoy-  ing  than  anything  else.  We  enacta  little  comedy  of  surprise.  &quot;It's  you!&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98lYes&quot;\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;What  are  you  doing  here?&quot;  &quot;Waiting.&quot;  But  today  no  one  appears,  although  I  wait  forhalf  an  hour.  I  have  wasted  my  time.  Except-  Faintly,  through  many  layers  of  stone,  I  hear  organ  music.  The  music  is  attenuated  but  unmistakable.  It  is  his  great  work,  &quot;Don  Juan  Triumphant.&quot;  A  communication  of  akind.  I  rejoice  in  his  immense,  buried  talent.  But  I  know  that  he  is  not  happy.  His  situation  is  simple  and  terrible.  He  must  decide  whether  to  risk  life     FEBRUARY  7,  1970  aboveground  or  to  remain  forever  in  hiding,  in  the  cellars  of  the  Opera.  His  tentative,  testing  explorations  in  the  city  (always  at  night)  have  not  per-  suaded  him  to  one  courseor  the  other.  Too,  the  city  is  no  longer  the  city  he  knew  asa  young  man.  Its  meaning  has  changed.  At  a  caf\xc3\xa9  table,  in  a  place  where  the  light  from  the  street  lamps  is  broken  by  a  large  tree,  we  sit  silently  over  our  drinks.  Everything  that  can  be  said  has  been  said  many  times.  I  have  no  new  observations  to  make.  The  decision  he  faces  has  been  tormenting  him  for  decades.  &quot;If  after  all  I-&quot;  But  he  cannot  finish  the  sentence.  We  both  know  what  is  meant.  I  am  distracted,  a  bit  angry.  How  many  nights  have  I  spent  this  way,  waiting  upon  his  sighs?  In  the  early  years  of  our  friendship  I  proposed  vigorous  measures.  A  new  life!  Advances  in  surgery,  I  told  him,  had  made  a  normal  existence  possible  for  him.  New  techniques  in-  &quot;I'm  too  old.&quot;  One  is  never  too  old,  I  said.  There  were  still  many  satisfactions  open  to  him,  not  the  least  the  possibility  of  service  to  others.  His  music!  A  home,  even  marriage  and  children  were  not  out  of  the  question.  What  was  re-  quired  was  boldness,  the  will  to  break  out  of  old  patterns.  ...  Now,  as  these  thoughts  flicker  through  our  brains,  he  smiles  ironically.  OMETIMES  he  speaks  of  Chris-  tine:  &quot;'That  voice!  &quot;But  I  was  perhaps  overdazzled  by  the  circumstances  ...  &quot;A  range  from  low  C  to  the  F  above  high  C!  &quot;Flawed,  of  course  ...  &quot;Liszt  heard  her.  'Que  cest  beau!  he  cried  out.  &quot;Possibly  somewhat  deficient  in  temperament.  But  I  had  temperament  enough  for  two.  \xc2\xab&quot;Such  goodness!  Such  gentleness!  &quot;I  would  pull  down  the  very  doors  of  heaven  for  a-&quot;  Tuesday.  A  few  slashes  of  lightning  in  the  sky  ...  Is  one  man  entitled  to  fix  himself  at  the  center  of  a  cosmos  of  hatred,  and  remain  there?  The  acid  ...  The  lost  love  ...  Yet  all  of  this  is  generations  cold.  There  have  been  wars,  inventions,  as-  sassinations,  discoveries.  ...  Perhaps  practical  affairs  have  as-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  sumed,  in  his  mind,  a  towering  im-  portance.  Does  he  fear  the  loss  of  the  stipend  (twenty  thousand  francs  per  month)  that  he  hasnot  ceased  to  ex-  tort  from  the  directors  of  the  Opera?  But  I  have  given  him  assurances.  He  shall  want  for  nothing.  Occasionally  he  is  overtaken  by  what  can  only  be  called  fits  of  grandiosity  :  &quot;One  hundred  million  cells  in  the  brain!  All  intent  on  being  the  Phan-  tom  of  the  Opera!&quot;  &quot;Between  three  and  four  thousand  human  languages!  And  I  am  the  Phantom  of  the  Opera  in  every  one  of  them!&quot;  This  is  quickly  followedby  the  deep-  est  despair.  He  sinks  intoa  chair,  passes  a  hand  over  his  mask.  &quot;Forty  years  of  it!&quot;  Why  must  I  have  Aizz  for  a  friend?  I  wanted  a  friend  with  whom  one  could  be  seen  abroad.  With  whom  one  could  exchange  country  weekends,  on  our  respective  estates!  I  put  these  unworthy  reflections  be-  hind  me.  ...  GASI\xe2\x80\x98ON  Leroux  was  tired  of  writ-  ing  &quot;The  Phantom  of  the  Op-  era.&quot;  He  replaced  his  pen  in  its  pen-  holder.  &quot;I  can  always  work  on  'The  Phan-  tom  of  the  Opera'  later-in  the  fall,  perhaps.  Right  now  I  feel  like  writing  'The  Secret  of  the  Yellow  Room.  &quot;  Gaston  Leroux  took  the  manuscript  of  &quot;The  Phantom  of  the  Opera&quot;  and  put  it  on  a  shelf  in  the  closet.  Then,  seating  himself  once  more  at  his  desk,  he  drew  toward  him  a  clean  sheet  of  foolscap.  At  the  top  he  wrote  the  words  &quot;The  Secret  of  the  Yellow  Room.&quot;  Wednesday.  I  receive  a  note  urgent-  ly  requesting  a  meeting.  &quot;All  men  that  are  ruined  are  ruined  on  the  side  of  their  natural  propenst-  ies,&quot;  the  noteconcludes.  This  is  surely  true.  Yet  the  vivacity  with  which  he  embraces  ruin  is  unex-  ampled,  in  my  experience.  When  we  meet  he  is  pacingnervous-  ly  in  an  ill-lit  corridor  just  off  the  room  where  the  tympani  are  stored.  I  noticed  that  his  dress,  always  so  im-  maculate,  is  disordered,  slept-in-look-  ing.  A  button  hangs  by  a  thread  from  his  waistcoat.  &quot;I  have  brought  you  a  newspaper,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Thank  you.  I  wanted  to  tell  you  ..  .  that  I  have  made  up  my  mind.&quot;  His  hands  are  trembling.  I  hold  my  breath.  &quot;I  have  decided  to  take  your  advice.   Sixty-five  is  not  after  all  the  end  of  one's  life!  I  place  myself  in  your  hands.  Make  whatever  arrangements  you  wish.  Tomorrow  night  at  this  time  I  quit  the  Opera  forever.&quot;  Blind  with  emotion,  I  can  thinkof  nothing  to  say.  A  firm  handclasp,  and  he  is  gone.  A  room  is  prepared.  I  tell  my  serv-  ants  that  I  am  anticipating  a  visitor  who  will  be  with  us  for  an  indefinite  period.  I  choose  for  him  a  room  with  a  splendid  window,  a  view  of  the  Seine;  but  I  am  careful  also  to  have  installed  heavy  velvet  curtains,  so  that  the  light,  with  which  the  room  is  plentifully  supplied,  will  not  come  as  an  assault.  The  degree  of  light  he  wishes.  And  when  I  am  satisfied  that  the  accommodations  are  all  that  could  be  desired,  I  set  off  to  interview  the  doc-  tor  I  have  selected.  &quot;You  understand  that  the  oper-  ation,  if  he  consents  to  it,  will  have  specific  ...  psychological  conse-  quences?&quot;  I  nod.  And  he  shows  me  in  a  book  pictures  of  faces  with  terrible  burns,  before  and  after  having  been  reconstructed  by  his  science.  It  is  indeed  an  album  of  magical  transformations.  &quot;I  would  wish  first  to  have  him  examined  by  my  colleague  Dr.  W.,  a  qualified  alienist.&quot;  &quot;This  is  possible.  But  I  remind  you  that  he  has  hadno  intercourse  with  his  fellow-men,  myself  excepted,  for-&quot;  &quot;But  was  it  not  the  case  that  originally,  the  violent  emotions  of  re-  venge  and  jealousy-&quot;  &quot;'Yes.  But  replaced  now,  I  believe,  by  a  melancholy  so  deep,  so  all-per-  vading-&quot;  Dr.  Mirabeau  sternness.  &quot;Melancholy,  sir,  is  an  ailment  with  which  I  have  had  some  slight  acquaint  ance.  We  shall  see  if  his  distemper  can  resist  a  little  miracle.&quot;  And  he  extends,  into  the  neutral  space  between  us,  ashining  scalpel.  assumes  a  mock  But  when  I  call  for  the  Phantom  on  Thursday,  at  the  appointed  hour,  he  is  not  there.  What  vexation!  Am  I  not  slightly  relieved?  Can  it  be  that  he  doesn't  like  me?  I  sit  down  on  the  kerb,  outside  the  Opera.  People  passing  look  at  me.  I  will  waithere  for  a  hundred  years.  Or  until  the  hot  meat  of  romance  is  cooled  by  the  dull  gravy  of  common  sense  once  more. "