THE  DEATH~DEFYING  TARTONIS  GO  out  first  now.  It  is  a  position  that  I  am  not  used  to  in  some  hair-  thin  secret  chamber  on  the  inside  of  the  calves  of  my  legs,  and  there  perhaps  I  will  never  be  used  to  it.  Perhaps  no  one  capable  of  assuming  the  position  and  surviving  would  ever  grow  used  to  it  in  every  part  of  himself.  Still,  I  have  hopes.  But  given  the  assumptions  on  which  I  base  the  rest  of  my  life,  in-  cluding  its  defiance,  as  they  say,  of  death,  it  behooves  me  to  conceal  this  truth-of  my  not  yet  being  wholly  accustomed  to  my  position-from  the  others.  To  whom  in  any  event  it  could  never  be  completely  and  continuous-  ly  (because  of  course  it  is  alive)  and  luminously  communicated,  so  that  it  would  not,  could  not,  contribute  to  their  enlightenment  but  merely  to  their  d'sturbance.  I  would  do  as  well,  in  fact,  to  conceal  it  even  from  myself  if  I  had  not,  during  thepast  months  and  years,  learned  to  control  this  stubborn  refusal  to  be  accustomed,  this  irreducible  re-  luctance  to  regard  my  naked  positionas  the  first  rider,  as  though  it  were  a  part  of  nature.  Is  it,  in  fact?  But  does  na-  ture  defy  death?  I  would  do  as  well  also  not  to  ask  such  questions  during  the  performance.  The  mind  never  de-  spairs  of  escaping  its  own  controls  even  if  the  escape  can  take  no  form  except  death  itself.  I  go  out  first  now.  It  has  been  two  and  a  half,  nearly  three  years.  Four  years  since  I  began  to  rehearse  the  po-     sition.  I  roll  the  front  wheel  onto  the  wire  eighty  feet  above  the  ground,  with  nothing  below  it  except  dark  air.  Dark  in  our  eyes  despite  the  floodlights.I  feel  on  my  shoulders  the  feet  in  their  tights.  I  feel  the  muscles  in  the  arches  of  the  feet  contracta  little.  This  helps  me.  More  of  my  mind  returns  from  somewhere  to  lend  its  shoulder,  to  hold  us  up.  I  go  out  only  afoot  or  two.  We  go  out,  for  they  have  all  assembled  behind  me.  Behind  me  and  above  me-but  at  this  point  I  must  not  think  of  them  as  being  above  me.  I  am  not  sure  why.  It  would  not  help.  We  go  out  only  a  foot  or  two,  very  slowly,  as  though  the  front  wheel  were  groping  its  way  along  the  wire  to  make  sure  it  continued.  At  about  the  point  where  my  foot  on  the  pedal  would  be  clear-  ing  the  platform  (I  imagine,  for  obvi-  ously  I  do  not  look  to  see)  and  there  is  nothing  under  the  pedal  but  that  darkness  of  which  the  rubber  ofthe  pedal  is  in  truth  a  reflection,  I  stop.  Even  more  slowly  we  go  back  to  the  platform.  They  help,  from  behind  me.  And  for  most  of  two  minutes  we  ap-  pear  to  be  adjusting  something,  arrang-  ing  something  which,  if  we  had  not  happened  to  notice  it,  would  have  meant  certain  death  for  all  of  us.  We  make  agreat  display  of  maintaining  outward  calm,  of  showing  nothing  to  the  audience,  of  not  betraying  that  any-  thing  is  wrong.  Those  above  do  not  even  climb  down  but  stand  there  the     JANUARY  10,  19  70  whole  time  with  their  poles,  staring  straight  ahead,  which  has  been  found  most  fitting.  An  assistant  appears  to  be  busying  himself  about  us.  We  make  use  of  this-in  fact,  very  difficult-  moment  to  breathe,  deliberately  but  not  in  time,  blinking  our  eyes  at  the  top  of  each  inhalation,  at  the  bottom  of  each  exhalation,  until  the  moment  when  we  must  forget  our  breathing  again  and  give  ourselves  solely  to  what  we  are  doing.  By  then  the  announcer  far  below  us  is  announcing  our  act  for  the  second  time,  his  voice  appear-  ing  to  show  a  touch  of  concern,  as  though  our  false  start  were  not  a  part  of  theact  but  something  unfore-  seen,  unprecedented,  and  incalculable  in  its  results.  He  is  announcing  us  again  but  of  course  we  do  not  hear  it,  for  by  then  we  are  far  advanced  in  our  act,  its  silence,  its  echoes.  Again  I  move  for-  ward,  the  feet  gripping  my  shoulders,  gripping  tighter  as  the  back  wheel,  too,  leaves  the  platform  and  the  whole  bi-  cycle  is  out  on  the  wire,  the  front  wheel  laying  itself  down  inch  by  inch  like  a  snail.  The  wire.  We  call  it  a  wire  out  of  tradition  rather  than  regard  for  accu-  racy.  To  be  exact,  itis  a  metal  cable  of  about  the  diameter  of  an  ordinary  can-  dle,  enveloped  over  its  whole  length  by  a  layer  of  soft  rubber  between  an  eighth  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  thickness.  The  rubber  layer  has  been  specially  ap-  plied  by  hand,  for  itis  important  that  the  bond  between  it  and  the  cable  should  be  perfect  and  should  remain  perfect.  It  must  not  slip.  The  outside  of  the  rubber  contains  not  a  coating  but  an  admixture  of  sharp  sand  of  different  degrees  of  coarseness,  which  must  have  been  made  into  an  integral  part  of  the  rubber  layer  for  as  long  as  the  wire  fills  its  present  role.  It  would  be  better  to  have  no  sand  at  all  than  sand  that  might  work  loose  and  roll  out.  Or  even  just  work  loose.  This  is  one  of  the  things  for  which  the  wire  is  examined,  inch  by  inch,after  each  performance.  Ifa  single  grain  of  sand  shows  signs  of  independent  movement,  though  it  may  be  nothing  more  definable  than  the  first  movements  of  a  child's  tooth,  the  whole  wire  is  set  aside-at  least  for  re-  pair.  Naturally,  when  itis  set  up  the  wire  is  anchored  to  keep  it  from  sway-  ing.  And  the  bicycles.  It  seems  hardly  necessary  to  point  out  that  they  are  not  ordinary  bicycles  either,  although  ev-  crything  (except  that  they  are  entire-  ly  covered  with  chrome,  apart  from  the  handgrips,  pedals,  and  seats)  has  been  arranged  to  make  them  suggest  the  most  commonplace  of  contempo-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  rary  wheels-the  low  balloon-tired  sort  that  used  to  be  won  by  sell-  ing  magazine  subscrip-  tions  door  to  door.  But  ours  are  almost  as  light  as  imported  racing  models.  Even  the  girls  carry  theirs  into  the  arena  themselves,  be-  fore  the  front  wheels  are  hooked  to  arope  and  one  after  the  other  the  bicycles  fly  alone,  straight  up  to  the  plat-  form.  (It  may  be  their  favorite  moment  in  the  whole  act.)  There  they  lean  against  their  han-  dlers  and  wait.  Speed  would  be  meaningless  to  these  constructions.  But  the  conveyance  of  power  from  the  pedal  to  the  rear  wheel  is  far  more  sensitive  than  it  is  in  ordinary  bicycles,  for  one  thing.  For  another,  the  tires  are  not  com-  pletely  round  but  are  molded  with  a  very  slight  longitudinal  con-  cavity,  barely  notice-  able  when  the  wheels  are  suspended  or  when  the  bicycle  is  standing  by  itself.  At  such  mo-  ments  this  conformation  appears  as  nothing  more  than  a  flatness  in  the  crown  of  the  tire,  scored  with  sec-  ondary  grooves,  also  running  length-  wise,  and  a  tertiary  hatchwork  in  a  triangular  scale  pattern  reminiscent  of  a  sharkskin.  A  recurrent  pattern-but  the  shark,  after  all,  is  a  professional  survivor.  It  is  only  when  the  bicycle  wheel  is  placed  on  the  wire,  on  the  plat-  form,  and  the  weight  of  the  rider  and  then  the  additional  weight  of  the  others  presses  the  tire  down  onto  the  sanded  envelope  of  the  cable  that  the  tire  yields  at  the  crown  sufficiently  to  pro-  duce  a  groove,  which  runs  the  full  length  of  the  contact.  A  shallow  grip.  Of  course  each  bicycle  is  very  slightly  different  from  the  others,  the  result  of  endless  adjustments,  some  of  them  con-  ceived  in  the  small  hours  of  the  night.  So  I  go  out  first,  and  the  image  of  the  front  wheel  laying  itself  down  like  a  snail  did  not  come  to  me  by  chance.  We  are  used  to  leaving  nothing  to  chance,  insofar  as  possible-or  so  we  have  to  believe,  though  of  course  chance,  chance  itself,  is  probably  not  even  limited  by  our  efforts.  But  in  any  case  how  often  that  snail  has  appeared   to  me  in  dreams.  Since  I  was  a  child.  Since  the  days  of  my  first  slow  wheel.  I  watched  him  (&quot;him,&quot;  of  course,  hence  the  intimacy  of  my  reservations,  the  ready  and  yet  awed  identification)  set  out  calmly,  as  though  I  did  not  exist,  as  though  my  decisions,  all  the  rest  of  me  andwhatbecame  of  all  the  rest  of  me,  were  eventualities  too  re-  mote  for  him  to  believe  in.  I  have  called  to  him  in  dreams  and  said,  &quot;Look,  it's  me!&quot;  But  nothing.  No  re-  sponse.  Thank  heaven.  For  I  believe  now  that  if  there  had  been  anything  of  the  kind  he  would  have  lost  some  in-  nate  certainty,  or  I  would  have  come  to  doubt  it,  and  we  would  all  have  plunged,  long  since,  into  the  abyss  that  awaits  us  everywhere,.  I  have  allowed  my  mind  to  run  at  times  (but  never  during  a  perform-  ance;  never  when  I  was  touching  the  bicycle)  on  his  ability  to  proceed  equal-  ly  well  along  the  side  of  a  wire,  or  underneath  it,  for  that  matter.  I  have  dwelt  with  satisfaction  on  the  image  of  him  climbing  smooth  walls,  cross-  ing  ceilings,  negotiating  intricate  joints  in  rafters,  or  elaborate  knots,  at  a  great  height.  I  have  had  dreams  in  which  he  disappeared-yes,  disap-  peared,  and  in  the  course  of  cross-  ing  the  wire  in  the  usual  way.  I  was  the  shell,  or  rather  the  bicycle  and  I  together  were  the  shell,  or  rather  the  bicycle  and  I  and  all  the  rest  of  us  were  the  shell  and  we  were  suddenly  filled  with  a  weightlessness  that  bore  no  rela-  tion  to  anything  we  had  practiced.  There  we  hung,  a  case  enclosing  a  coil  of  nothing,  balancing  as  well  as  we  could  now  that  we  were  deprived  of  movement  and  had  nothing  at  our  cen-  ter,  until  a  tiny  upward  breath  swept  us  off  into  the  void.  Naturally  I  have  remained  silent  about  any  such  images  of  my  own.  As  my  fellow-performers  have  done  with  theirs,  if  they  have  any,  as  no  doubt  they  do.  SO  I  go  out  first  but  it  has  not  always  been  so.  I  am  not  the  oldest;  no,  I  am  really  one  of  the  younger  mem-  bers  of  what  is  known,  for  reasons  of  remote  pathos,  as  the  family.  Behind  me  the  front  wheel  of  Claudio's  bicycle  follows  the  rear  wheel  of  mine  with  only  a  few  inches  between  them  and  nothing  maintaining  thedistance  ex-  cept  Claudio's  foot  on  his  pedal.  Claudio  " b"22  is  eight  years  older  than  I  am  and  wears  a  dark  reddish  toupee  forthe  act.  Tartoni  is  his  real  name.  And  yet  he  has  confided  to  me  that  if  he  had  not  been  put  to  the  act  so  young-as  we  all  were-he  might  never  have  chosen  it.  He  cannot  be  certain,  but  he  might  never  have  chosen  it.  It  was  one  of  those  confidences  probably  forgot-  ten  almost  immediately  by  the  person  who  makes  them,  and  I  am  sure  that  the  thought  has  seldom  if  ever  recurred  to  him.  Claudio  says  very  little  and  buys  magazines  about  animals  and  na-  ture  when  we  have  any  time  in  a  city.  He  is  heavier  than  I  am,  heavier  than  any  of  us,  but  his  tights  always  fit  with  wrinkles.  For  years,  ever  since  I  began  to  practice  going  out  first,  I  have  tried  not  to  listen  to  his  breathing.  It  was  once  suggested  that  Claudio  should  go  out  first,  but  the  thought  troubled  him  and  the  idea  was  dropped.  Behind  Claudio's  bicycle  comes  the  carefully  braked  front  wheel  of  his  younger  brother,  Rafael.  Rafael  mar-  ried  Marisa  two  years  ago,  after  living  with  her  for  nearly  three.  He  is  much  slighter  than  Claudio,  blond,  quicker  but  more  nervous.  He  worries  about  money.  He  worries  about  the  future  of  the  act.  He  reads  all  the  papers  and  dis-  courses  upon  them  to  the  rest  of  us,  usually  without  anyone  else  entering  a  comment.  Rafael  needs  an  abdominal  operation,  but  we  hope  it  will  wait  until  the  end  of  the  season,  because  the  for-  mation  as  we  practice  it  now  allows  of  no  alternatives.  Behind  Rafael's  bicycle  comes  his  cousin  Marcantonio's.  Marcantonio's  mother  was  born  a  'Tartoni  but  tried  to  escape  the  whole  world  of  the  wire  by  marrying  outside  it.  Perhaps  be-  cause  she  had  never  known  anyone  ex-  cept  those  who  performed  on  the  wire,  she  chose  unfortunately.  The  marriage  was  brief  and  wretched;  she  herself  re-  turned,  with  her  child,  to  the  familiar  circumstances.  Not  as  a  performer  (she  had  never  had  the  temperament)  but  as  a  dresser,  old  before  her  time,  con-  trolling  herpessimism  with  an  uncer-  tainty  thatled  us  all  to  keep  our  dis-  tance  from  her.  Yet  allowing  herson  to  be  brought  up  as  a  cyclist-her  own  attempt  to  escape  the  wire  had  ex-  hausted  her  belief  in  such  a  possibility.  And  Marcantonio  avoidedher  more  studiously  than  anyone,  going  so  far  as  to  have  his  tights  made  and  repaired  by  someone  else.  And  though  the  differ-  ences  between  our  performances  are  al-  most  immeasurable,  it  is  my  opinion  that  Marcantonio  is  the  most  reliable  and  sturdy  ofus  all.  Last  comes  Cesare,  gaunt,  sinewy, and  no  more  their  brother  than  I  am.  He  is  the  son  of  a  trapeze  artist  who  was  killed  when  Cesare  was  very  small.  There  was  no  one  to  train  him  in  his  father's  act,  but  Carla  Tartoni,  the  mother  of  the  cyclists  behind  me,  who  died  last  year,  brought  him  up  as  a  matter  of  course  and  he  was  put  to  the  wire  at  the  same  age  as  the  rest  of  us.  His  passion  is  dancing  and  he  is  in  love  -Wirriam  Jay  Smirn  with  a  girl  who  has  nothing  to  do  with  any  act  at  all,  which  in  itself  has  al-  ways  been  thought  rather  unlucky.  She  has  never  seen  him  perform  and  refuses  to  read  the  reviews  of  our  act  in  the  newspapers.  The  feet  on  my  shoulders  belong  to  Augusta,  one  of  the  younger  daugh-  ters.  Younger  than  I  am,  and  pretty.  We  grew  up  together.  For  a  brief  time  " b" in  our  early  adolescence  we  slept  to-  gether,  until  the  full  gravity  of  what  we  were  doing  dawned  on  us  at  the  same  time.  Then  we  stopped  without  a  word  and  without  the  least  ill  will.  Now,  years  later,  itis  good  that  it  hap-  pened.  Neither  she  nor  I  has  married.  Again,  one  does  not  think  of  such  things  during  the  performance.  On  Claudio's  shoulders  the  feet  are  Alfredo's.  He  is  not  a  member  of  the  family  either,  but  a  tumbler  whom  they  enlisted  seven  or  eight  years  ago.  He  is  the  oldest  of  us,  married,  with  chil-  dren  whom  he  never  sees;  he  is  almost  the  same  age  as  Claudio's  own  father.  He  reads  one  boxful  of  books  over  and  over.  On  Rafael's  shoulders  are  Emilia's  feet.  Emilia  lives  with  Claudio.  She  is  the  daughter  of  another  wire  artist,  who  performs  alone.  On  Marcantonio's  shoulders,  Gior-  gio's  feet.  Giorgio  is  the  youngest  of  the  Tartonis,  slight,  small,  homosexual,  who  wanted  to  be  a  clown.  On  Cesare's  shoulders,  Anna's  feet.  She  is  the  prettiest  of  the  Tartoni  girls,  gentle,  studious,  and  a  singer.  The  seats  of  the  bicycles  and  the  heights  of  the  first  row  of  balancers  have  been  carefully  adjusted  so  that  their  shoulders  are  all  at  the  same  height.  This  is  important  because  when  the  balancers  are  in  position  a  ladder  is  handed  up  to  them,  through  which  they  all  slip  their  heads.  They  lower  it  to  their  shoulders,  which  are  padded  to  receive  it,  and  the  ladder  provides  a  platform,  running  from  Augusta  in  front  to  Anna  in  the  rear.  The  balanc-  ing  poles  are  then  handed  up,  and  the  second  row  of  balancers  can  start  to  climb,  to  stand  on  the  ladder.  Mimi  first,  who  was  a  classical  dancer  but  required  something  more  dangerous.  She  is  jealous  of  Marisa  and  everyone  pretends  not  to  know.  Then  Teodoro,  who  is  little  and  dark  like  a  jockey,  and  was  a  street  urchin  who  used  to  play  with  us  when  we  were  first  starting  tolearn,  and  picked  up  theact  that  way,  and  came  with  us.  He  is  married  and  has  five  children  who  live  with  the  troupe,  but  he  is  never  around  unless  itis  for  some  reason  to  do  with  work.  He  and  Gior-  gio  do  not  get  along,  but  everyone  is  careful  not  to  pay  any  attention.  Then  Maria,  Cesare's  sister,  adopted  at  the  same  time  hewas.  She  is  in  love  with  Marcantonio,  and  it  would  bea  good  thing,  but  that  is  no  concern  of  the  front  tire's.  Finally,  Ernesto  Tartoni,  short,  neat,  equable,  the  eldest  of  the  sons,  married  without  children,  an  impas-  sioned  and  skillful  devotee  of  the  stock  market,  at  which  he  has  been  moder-  ately  successful  over  the  years,  consider-  ing  that  he  started  with  nothing.  On  the  shoulders  of  thesefour,  a  second  ladder.  On  which  a  chair  is  placed.  Into  which  Graziella  climbs,  wearing  a  long  gown,  mock-royal,  with  fluffy  trim  and  spangles.  And  a  rhinestone  tiara.  Graziella  was  also  picked  up  on  the  street-an  acquaint,  ance  of  Teodoro's.  She  grew  up  with  us.  We  first  let  her  practice  the  act  with  us  after  watching  her  walk  up  a  hawser  onto  a  ship,  on  a  dare,  when  she  was  a  little  girl.  I  suppose  it  would  be  said  that  Graziella  and  I  are  engaged.  Yes,  that  at  least.  When  we  are  halfway  across,  we  stop.  The  cyclists,  one  after  the  other,  take  their  hands  off  the  grips  and  hold  them  out  like  wings.  Then  each  of  the  bottom  row  of  balancers  raises  an  arm.  Last  of  all,  Graziella  rises,  climbs  the  chair,  and  unfurlsa  flag.  We  remain  there,  not  hearing  the  rolled  drums  or  " b"24  the  applause,  for  a  moment,  and  then  continue.  EVERYONE\xe2\x80\x99S  role,  as  may  be  im-  agined,  is  difficult.  But  for  the  cyclists  it  is  more  difficult  than  for  any-  one,  and  our  training  began  almost  as  soon  as  we  couldwalk.  Even  before,  if  you  will,  with  toy  bicycles.  We  came  early  to  regard  these  two-wheeled  fab-  rications  as  though  the  world  itself  re-  volved  around  them.  We  thought  of  them  day  and  night.  Everything  we  learned  led  back  to  them  at  once  or  seemed  pointless.  At  last  we  could  ride.  The  fervor  increased.  We  cared  for  nothing  else.  We  learned  to  ride  more  and  more  slowly.  We  learned  to  ride  backward.  By  pure  force  of  con-  centration  we  learned  to  stop,  to  re-  main  upright  in  one  place.  Then  came  the  moment  when  an  old  wire  was  laid  on  the  ground  and  we  set  the  wheels  on  it  and  started.  When  that  became  prac-  ticable,  the  first  of  the  drops-an  old  tent  canvas,  painted-was  spread  out  under  the  wire.  It  represents  an  arena.  At  the  edges  are  the  first  tiers  of  seats,  with  spectators  painted  sitting  there,  life-size.  We  soon  ceased  to  notice  them.  In  due  course  the  wire  was  raised  a  few  inches,  just  enough  to  clear  the  ground.  Same  canvas.  When  we  were  used  to  the  raised  practice  wire  another  canvas  was  spread  under  it.  The  arena  was  smaller,.  More  tiers  of  spectators  showed.  They  were  smaller.  As  we  grew  more  proficient  the  canvases  depicted  the  arena  and  the  audience  farther  and  farther  below  us,  until  the  arena  looked  the  size  of  a  din-  ner  plate  and  the  spectators  the  size  of  hatpins.  Then  a  black  canvas,  which  was  hardest  of  all  to  get  used  to.  Then  we  were  ready  to  start  learning  the  act  itself.  UT  after  all  that,  and  even  with  luck,  will  we  grow  much  older  in  the  act?  The  audiences  are  not  what  they  were  only  a  few  years  ago;  our  ex-  penses  are  rising  all  the  time;  none  of  the  young  seem  tofeel  that  there  is  a  future  in  following  our  exacting  pro-  fession.  Fewer  and  fewer  people  seem  to  believe  in  us,  to  say  nothing  of  un-  derstanding  our  art.  But  Grandfather  Tartoni  says  that  the  decline  of  interest  has  nothing  to  do  with  the  world  but  only  with  our-  selves.  He  says  we  are  no  longer  of     interest  because  in  truth  we  are  not  de-  fying  anything  real  at  all.  According  to  him  we  know  too  much,  and  it  is  all  a  game.  Even  if  we  were  killed  we  would  be  killedin  a  game.  That  is  what  they  mean  when  they  say  they  don't  believe  we're  really  doing  what  we  seem  to  be  doing.  The  old  man  declares  that  in  contrast  to  us  he  admired  his  son  Tommaso,  Claudio's  father,  just  once,  when  he  combined  risk  and  wit  and  per-  formed  on  the  wire,  at  the  age  of  eight-  een,  on  a  unicycle,  on  his  head,  And  the  old  man  is  thinking  (though  he  is  too  proud  to  mention  it)  of  the  day  when  he  himself  drove  a  bicycle  with  a  huge  front  wheel-an  ordinary  high-  seated  penny-farthing  without  special  tires  or  anything-across  a  city  square,  a  hundred  feet  up,  without  rehearsal,  simply  because,  as  he  once  said,  it  got  into  him  that  he  could.  He  watches  us  seldom,  and  with  scorn,  and  he  says  we  should  turn  to  something  we  know  nothing  about  if  we  are  going  totalk  about  defying  death.  The  whole  mat-  ter,  he  says,  is  far  simpler  than  we  have  made  it.  It  consists  of  nothing  but  being  able  to  look  straight  ahead  and  see  that  there  could  not  possibly  be  any  other  way. "