 HOW  T  HEY  BROUGHT  THE  BAD  NEW  S  FROM  GHENT  (N  .Y.  )  TO  AIX  (KANS.)  (NOTE:  A  FUL  L  TRANSCRIPT  OF  THIS  NIGHTMARE,  RECENTLY  DREAMED  BY  A  SOUR  CE  CLO  S  E  TO  THE  WHIT  E  HOUSE,  W  AS  D  EL  I  VERED  IN  A  DVANCE  TO  THE  FE  DERAL  COMMU  NICATIONS  COMMISSION.)  SeenE:  P.  J.  Contumely's,  an  un-  savory,  deplorably  \xc3\xa9lite  dive  somewhere  on  the  [REDACTED]  Side  of  a  totally  unrepre-  sentative  large  city  on  the  [REDACTED]  Coast,  possibly  Media,  [REDACTED]  The  lighting  is  crepuscular  and  unoptimistic,  the  am-  bience  (by  Ming  Cho  Lee)  intellectual  and  confining,  the  d\xc3\xa9cor  French  Pro-  vincial.  A  few  un-elected  network  ex-  ecutives  are  hunched  at  the  bar,  oc-  casionally  adjusting  their  dominoes  as  they  knock  back  absinthe  Gibsons  in  anonymous  silence.  Three  television  sets  are  in  operation  over  the  bar,  each  tuned  permanently  to  a  different  major  network;  each  is  bringing  us  the  identical  commercial  at  this  mo-  ment-a  scene  depicting  stomach  acids  eating  away  the  moral  fibre  of  a  typical  American  family.  In  the  darkest  corner  of  the  room,  five  men  are  discovered  in  whispered  converse  at  a  round  table,  which  is  illuminated  by  a  single  gutter-     ing  candle.  Somehow,  they  all  look  fa-  miliar  to  us,  although  each  one  reflects  nothing  beyond  an  urbane  and  assured  presence  that  is  seemingly  well  in-  formed  on  every  important  matter.  From  their  caustic,  irrational  chitchat,  delivered  in  heavily  inflected  vorces,  we  learn  that  they  are  hiding  behind  such  unlikely  pseudonyms  as  Howarp  K.  SmttH,  RocEr  Mupp,  Frank  Reyn-  ops,  WarTER  CRONKITE,  and  ERIC  SEvarEID.  It  is  after  five  in  the  after-  noon  (E.S.T.),  less  than  two  hours  before  the  Hour  of  the  W  olf.  mire  (lifting  his  glass):  Well,  Roger,  here's  Mudd  in  your  eye.  Mupp  (wrbanely  ):  Har-har!  Gosh,  Howard,  that's  rich!  (They  all  chuckle  appreciatively.)  CronKITE:  Hey,  where  are  the  oth-  ers?  (He  looks  at  his  watch.)  A  hun-  dred  and  two  minutes  to  go  and  I'm  JANUARY  3,  1970  absolutely  dry  tonight.  I  couldn't  lift  a  thing  from  today'spapers.  Reynorupns:  Same  here.  This  holiday  season  is  from  Dragsville.  All  upbeat  and  .  ..  you  know,  credible.  CronkIrE:  Yes.  It's  a  good  thing  we  can  get  together  like  this,  comme  d  habitude,  and  provide  reinforcement  for  our  shared  parochial  viewpoints.  Tur  OrtuErs  (severally):  Right.  Yep....  Keerect.  ...  Exactly  what  I  was  thinking.  SeEvarEm:  By  the  way,  Howard,  that  was  a  lovely  bit  youhad  last  night  on  the  Pentagon's  continuing  silence  about  the  cranberry-sauce  scandal  at  Fort  Riley  last  week.  That  blew  my  mind.  Smtr:  Why,  shucks,  Eric,  I  sure  do  appreciate  that.  Coming  from  you.  I  mean,  you  handled  the  same  news  so  beautifully  yourself-I  caught  you  on  tape.  The  way  you  bore  down  on  the  fact  that  at  least  one  of  the  cul-  pable  mess  sergeants  was  a  Republi-  can-out  of  sight!  And  I  really  grooved  on  that  quotation  from  Irma  Rom-  bauer.  Reynoups  (thunderstruck):  Irma  Rombauer!  I  thought  we'd  all  agreed  to  throw  in  a  quote  by  Rimbaud!  Where's  my  head  at?  No  wonder  I  got  all  those  puzzled  phone  calls  from  the  heartland.  CrRONKITE:  Oh,  well,  it  could  have  happened  to  any  of  us,  Frank.  Una-  nimity's  a  hard  taskmaster.  I  only  wish  we  hadn't  used  up  that  story  last  night,  though.  I  tell  you,  I'm  worried.  Mupp:  What  about  giving  'em  some  year-end  musings?  You  know-a  think  piece,  but  with  mood.  I  read  something  this  morning  that  I  liked.  An  editorial  somewhere.  Let's  see.  .  .  .  I  think  it  be-  gins  (he  quotes  from  memory):  &quot;Now,  as  the  lowering  sun  lies  somnolent  in  nether  circlet  of  the  ancient  sol-  stices,  and  full  winter  taughtens  the  taproots  ofthe  humble  back-yard  dan-  delion  in  its  frigid  fist,  the  heart  grows  sombre.  It  is  still  five  weeks  until  Groundhog  Day,  eight  before  the  first  brave  sugar  maple  (Acer  saccharum)  secretly-&quot;  SmITH  (quoting  with  him  in  cho-  rus):  &quot;-opens  its  subterranean  den-  droid  faucets.  Only  the  gaily  bedight  chipmunk-&quot;  Tur  OTHERS  (joining  in):  &quot;-and  the  brash,  Boreus-defying  chicka-  dee  (Penthestes  atricapillus  )  remain  to  keep  us  morning  company  in  this  dark  season-&quot;  (They  break  off,  laughing  in  surprise.)  Mupp:  Golly,  we  must  have  read  the  same  editorial!  SEvarED;  Talk  about  coincidence!     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  SmITH:  Now,  I  wonder  where  we  all  might  have  read  that.  (He  porn-  ders.)  For  the  life  of  me,  I  can't  re-  member.  (They  all  try  to  remember.)  Mupp:  I  think  it  was  some  paper  with  a  short  name.  Like  Trim  or  Tide.  Something  like  that.  CronKITE:  I've  got  it!  Times!  The  New  York  Times.  ReEynoups:  Right  you  are,  Wal-  ter.  Imagine  all  of  us  happening  to  see  that  one  paper  on  the  very  same  morning!  Smtr:  Anyway,  it's  too  cornball  for  us.  I  won't  touch  it.  SevarE  :  Me  neither.  It's  Kitsch.  Revynoups:  Pap.  Munn:  Actually,  I  hated  it.  CRONKITE:  Me,  too.  (Enter  two  men  who  look  very  much  like  Davin  BRINKLEY  and  Curt  HuntuEy.  They  are  greeted  effusively.)  SEvAREID:  Good  Good  evening,  David.  BrimkuiEy:  Ho,  ho,  ho!  Cut  it  out,  Eric.  Rrynoups:  What's  the  bad  news,  Chet?!  (wiping  his  eyes):  You  guy's  are  too  much!  Sme:  What'll  it  be,  boys?  Bour-  bon  and  branch  water?  BrinkLEy:  What  a  bunch  of  kid-  ders.  (To  the  waiter)  The  usual,  Giu-  seppe.  (The  waiter  returns,  bringing  glasses  of  Madeira.)  CrRoNKITE:  I  don't  want  to  spoil  the  fun,  gang,  but  it's  only  ninety-eight  minutes  till  air  time.  You  want  to  han-  dle  the  rundown  tonight,  Chet?  HuntuEy  (taking  a  folder  of  news  clippings  and   wire-service  teletypes  from  his  pocket):  O.K.,  but  I  tell  you,  it  looks  damn  thin  to  me  tonight,  boys.  Nothing  here  but  sunshine.  (He  riffes  through  his  papers.)  Let's  see  ...  em-  ployment  is  up  1.3-2.9  in  the  Middle  West.  Seasonal  hiring  in  the  stores,  mostly,  but  it's  there.  The  biggest  hominy  crop  in  fifty  years  has  been  harvested  in  [REDACTED].  Cost  of  living  down  .02,  coast  to  coast,  thanks  mostly  to  the  White  House  switching  to  the  less  expensive  spread  for  the  hols.  No  riots,  no  tornadoes,  no  campus  busts  vacation  times  there,  too.  Operation  In-  tercept  reported  picking  up  thirty-seven  bushels  of  pot  in  a  Yippie-owned  mini-  bus,  but  it  turned  out  to  be  Christmas  wreaths  for  families  of  the  [REDACTED]  po-  lice.  A  big,  fat  zero.  SmtTtH:  It's  hard  to  believe.  Just  no  news  at  all.  Mun  (griml  Nasser,  and  Golda  Meir  are  all  skiing  at  Kitzbiihel.  President  Thieu  read  &quot;A  Child's  Christmas  in  Wales&quot;  aloud  to  Buddhist  orphans.  More  troops  are  coming  home.  Bob  Hope  entertained  the  principals  at  the  [REDACTED]  peace  talks.  Willy  Brandt  is  ice-skating  on  the  Vol-  ga  with  the  Russian  General  Staff.  See  what  I  mean?  CronkIrE:  Any  major  speeches?  Anywhere?  HuntiEy:  Last  night?  Only  Gov-  ernor  Reagan,  Eric  Hoffer,  Attorney  General  Mitchell,  Roy  Wilkins,  Bud  Wilkinson,  and  Billy  Graham.  And  David  Eisenhower  talked  to  the  Na-  tional  Barbers'  Convention.  Reynoruns:  Cripes.  A  bunch  of  no-  bodies.  Smtr  (dispiritedly  ):  What  did  Da-  vid  talk  about?  Huntu\xc2\xaery  (rifling  papers):  Uh  ...  &quot;Nape-Challenge  to  Our  Times.&quot;  BrinkuEy  (brightening):  Napalm?  HuNTLEY:  No.  He  means  kids  should  keep  their  hair  off  their  necks.  BrinkieEy:  Ugh.  Anything  in  sports!  HunTtury:  Just  those  twenty-one  upcoming  bow!  games,  college  and  pro.  And  the  President  rolled  a  134on  the  White  House  bowling  alleys  last  night,  his  highest  score  ever.  (A  prolonged  si-  lence  descends.)  HuntTLEy:  Oh,  there  is  one  little  item  here.  Seems  there's  this  weirdo  commune  out  in  [REDACTED],  and  last  week  some  of  the  members  happened  to  read  the  President's  Christmas  Proclama-  tion.  It  really  zapped  them.  The  whole  outfit  reported  themselves  to  the  local  Junior  Chamber  of  Commerce  and  made  a  public  recantation  and  confes-  sion  of  error.  They  cut  their  hair,  bought  new  clothes,  took  out  credit  cards-the  whole  bit.  Fourteen  of  them  have  applied  for  mid-term  admission  to  the  state  aggie  school.  Several  couples  have  gotten  married  and  taken  out  ranch-house  mortgages,  and  three  for-  mer  heads  are  buying  a  Pontiac  distrib-  utorship.  Some  of  the  chicks  are  opening  " b"26  a  school  for  baton  twirlers,  and  nine  ex-freaks  have  enlisted  in  the  Marines.  The  kids  are  going  to  re\xc3\xa9nact  the  whole  thing,  along  with  a  ceremonial  burning  of  their  love  beads,  on  the  Ed  Sullivan  show  this  Sunday.  This  is  front-page  stuff  in  the  boondocks,  of  course.  Muop  (gloomily):  It  does  almost  sound  like  news.  CronKIrE:  I  just  don't  see  how  we  can  skip  it.  Unless  it's  a  put-on.  BrInNKLEY:  No,  Walter.  Face  it:  it's  arrant  normalcy.  (bitterly  ):  I  just  don't  know  what's  happening  to  this  country  any-  more!  HunTtLEy:  Wait,  wait!  We're  off  the  hook,  fellows.  I  just  noticed.  This  all  happened  in  Des  Moines!  SmtrH  :  So  what?  Reynorupns:  Don't  you  see,  How-  ard?  We  mentioned  Des  Moines  only  last  month,  when  what's-his-name-  oh,  you  know,  the  Vice-President-  made  some  speech  there.  We  can't  go  back  to  the  same  old  dateline  so  soon.  It  wouldn't  give  a  balanced,  represent-  ative  picture  of  these  United  [REDACTED].  I  don't  think  we  can  risk  giving  the  im-  pression  that  all  the  news  is  being  made  in  that  little  strip  of  land  that  lies  between  the  [REDACTED]  and  the  Rio  Grande.  I  don't  know  about  the  rest  of  you,  but  I  won't  touch  it.  Call  it  preju-  dice  or  narrowness,  but  I  think  your  program  has  to  reflect  what  your  basic  feelings  are.  I'll  plead  guilty  to  that.  SmrrH  (tearing  up  his  motes):  You're  right,  Frank,  of  course.  I  feel  exactly  the  same  way,  now  that  you've  made  it  clear  to  me.  CrRONKITE  (7'r1imjrd):  Whee-ew!  That  was  a  close  one.  The  trouble  is,  this  still  leavesus  with  nothing  for  tonight.  (Another  gloomy  silence.  It  is  broken  by  SEvAREID,  who  clears  his  throat.)  Tus  OTHERS  (hopefully):  Yes,  Eric?  SEvarEID  (a  patient,  ecrxhausted  fa-  ther):  Well,  fellows,  I  don't  know  how  to  say  this.  Frankly,  I'm  dis-  appointed.  This  is  not  the  kind  of  hardened-newsman's  attitude  I  ex-  pected  of  you.  Back  when  I  left  Velva,  N.D.,and  headed  for  the  pro-  vincial  [REDACTED],  I  never  believed  I'd  hear  this  kind  of  dispirited  Corn  Belt  belly-  aching  and-yes,  I'll  say  it-this  utter  failure  of  cynicism,  when  we're  only  faced  with  a  little  bitty  patch  of  good  news.  Now,  shall  we  give  up  and  settle  for  three  evening  news  programs  of  nothing  but  Gelusil,  or  shall  we  knuckle  down,  pull  up  our  socks,  and  just  plain  go  to  work?     We're  with  you,  Eric!  SmtrH  :  Lead  on,  chief!  SeEvarEI:  I  knew  I  could  count  on  you  all.  O.K.,  Frank,  you  hustle  out  to  the  phone  and  find  what  Averell  Har-  riman's  up  to.  Tell  him  the  spot  we're  in.  And  say  hello  from  me  to  Marie.  (REeynoups  exits  on  the  run.)  The  rest  of  you,  get  out  your  pencils.  First  of  all,  who  sets  up  the  bowling  pins  when  the  President  goes  bowling?  Muop:  Why,  it's  one  of  those  me-  chanical  gismos.  Over  in  the  Executive  Office  Building-I  rolled  a  couple  of  lines  there  only  last  week.  You  know,  one  of  those  machines  that  sweeps  up  the  leftover  pins  and  sets  'em  down  automatically.  SevarEm:  I  thought  so!  And  be-  forethat  how  were  the  pins  set  up?     Smtr  (puzzled):  By  hand,  I  guess.  The  old  way.  SEvarEm:  Right.  By  that  forgotten  American,  the  pinsetter.  And  pinsetters  in  [REDACTED]  must  have  been  .  ..  Mupp:  I  don't  get  it.  CronkITE:  Got  it!  They  must  have  been  blacks!  So  the  President,  in  the  act  of  encouraging  physical  fitness,  has  fired  some  faithful,  septuagenarian,  lifetime  federal  black  emmployee-  Mupp  (scribbling  furiously):  -thus  abetting  the  omnipresent  man-  ufacturing  interests  while  adding  to  the  burden  of  technological  unemploy-  ment-  BRINKLEY:  -in  our  racially  trou-  bled  capital!  Zowie,  what  a  twist!  Wait  until  I  get  to  Milt  Galamison  and  Bobby  Seale  for  quotes!  SEvarEI:  Let's  move  along.  About  that  bumper  hominy  crop.  This  morn-  ing,  I  got  on  the  horn  to  Secretary  Finch,  just  on  a  hunch,  and  asked  him  whether  habitual  ingestion  of  large  por-  tions  of  hominy  might  not  have  dele-  terious  effects  on  the  American  stom-  ach  lining.  He  said  he'd  put  the  Food  and  Drug  people  right  on  it  and  then  call  me  back.  HunTLEy  (licking  his  lips  ):  And?  SEvarE:  And  he  called  back  and  denied  it.  CronkITE:  Whoopee!  Mupp  (puzzled):  I'm  just  a  111  ole  [REDACTED]  stringer,  but  I'm  sure  " b"  learning  a  lot  tonight.  If  hedenied  it,  why-  HunxntuEy  :  Show  him,  David.  SmrrH  :  Do  your  thing,  Dave.  BrinkuiEy  (blushing):  Oh  dear.  It's  just  thisgiftI  have.  It  isn't  s4iH.  Oh,  all  right.  (He  assumes  a  seven-  o'clock  tonc.)  &quot;Secretary  of  Health,  Education,  and  Welfare  Finch  today  denied  that  habitual  ingestion  of  that  favorite  rural  foodstuff,  hominy,  might  bea  cause  of  endemic  gastro-intestinal  trouble  in  the  Deep  South  belly.&quot;  (He  pauses  for  two  seconds  and  then  slow-  ly  raises  his  left  eyebrow.)  SevarE:  Beautiful,  cher  confr\xc3\xa9re.  HuntuEy:  There  goes  the  hominy  market!  Mupp  (holding  down  his  right  eye-  brow  with  one  hand):  I  just  can't  get  the  hang  of  it.  SmIrTrH  :  Now  you,  Walter.  CrRoONKITE:  Well-if  you  insist.  &quot;Secretary  of  Health,  Education,  and  Welfare  Finch  today  hotly  denied  ...  buzz,  buzz,  buzz.&quot;  (He  pauses  for  two  seconds  and  then  clears  his  throat.)  &quot;Harrummpphh!&quot;  SmrrH:  And  hominy  goes  the  way  of  old  Tab  and  the  passenger  pigeon  RrEynoups  (entering  excitedly):  Bingo,  Eric!  Averell  Harriman  is  away  for  the  New  Year's  holiday.  He's-get  this!  -he's  skiing  at  Sun  Valley.  Mupp:  I've  got  it,  I've  got  it  this  time!  Like,  this  weekend,  while  seven-  ty  million  members  of  the  silent  major-  ity  lie  back  on  their  duffs  drinking  beer  as  they  watch  forty-eight  consecutive  hours  of  football  on  the  boob  tube,  the  eminent  [REDACTED]  Coast  Democratic  elder  statesman  and  peacemaker-  SmrrH:  -a  charter  member  ofthe  effete  Establishmentarian  snobs  Mupp:  -returns  to  the  American  frontier  to  restore  mind  and  spirit  in  lonely  communion  with  mountain  maj-  esties-  HuntuEy:  -pitting  the  skill  of  his  seventy-eight-year-old  legs  against  icy  defiles  undreamed  of  in  the  fetid  and  housebound  imagination  of  Mr.  John  Q.  Vicarious.  (They  all  burst  into  spontaneous  ap-  plause.)  SevarEip  (risimg):  Well,  gentle-  men,  I  think  we're  back  in  business.  I'm  proud  of  you  all.  CRONKITE:  Nothing  to  it.  BrinkLEy:  As  simple  as  A.  B.C.  SmrrH:  Hee,  hee,  hee!  David,  you  kill  me.  .  (Bound  for  their  three  studios,  they  exit  together,  MuUop  still  experiment-  ing  with  his  eyebrow  and  the  others  as-  suming  their  customary  evening  expres-  sions  of  barely  contained  despair,  as  the  curtain  falls.) "