NEY  YEAR'S  EVE  N  New  Year's  Eve  the  Plum-  mers  took  Amabel  to  the  opera.  &quot;Whatever  happens  tonight  happens  every  day  for  a  year,&quot;  said  Amabel,  feeling  secure  because  she  had  a  Plummer  on  either  side.  Colonel  Plummer's  car  had  broken  down  that  afternoon;  he  had  got  his  wife  and  their  guest  punctually  to  the  Bolshoi  [REDACTED],  through  a  storm,  in  a  bootleg  taxi.  Now  he  discovered  from  his  program  that  the  opera  announced  was  neither  of  those  they  had  been  promised.  His  wifeleaned  across  Amabel  and  said,  &quot;Well,  which  is  it?'&quot;  She  could  not  read  any  Russian  and  would  not  try.  She  must  have  known  it  would  take  him  minutes  to  answer,  for  she  sat  back,  settled  a  width  of  gauzy  old  shawl  on  her  neck,  and  began  telling  Amabel  the  relative  sizes  of  the  Bolshoi  and  some  concert  hall  in  Vancouver  the  girl  had  never  heard  of.  Then,  because  it  was  the  Colonel's  turn  to  speak,  she  shut  her  eyes  and  waited  for  the  overture.  The  Colonel  was  gazing  at  the  pro-  gram  and  putting  off  the  moment  when  he  would  have  to  say  that  it  was  &quot;Ivan  Susanin,&quot;'  a  third  choice  no  one  had  so  much  as  hinted  at.  He  wanted  to  convey  that  he  was  sorry  and  that  the  change  was  not  his  fault.  He  took  bearings:  he  was  surrounded  by  wom-  en.  To  his  left  sat  the  guest,  who  mewed  like  a  kitten,  who  had  been  a  friend  of  his  daughter's,  and  whose  name  he  could  not  remember.  On  the  right,  near  the  aisle,  two  quiet  unknown  girls  were  eating  fruit  and  chocolates.  These  two  smelled  of  oranges;  of  clothes  worn  a  long  time  in  winter;  of  light  recent  sweat;  of  women's  hair.  Their  arms  were  large  and  bare.  When  the  girl  closest  to  him  moved  slightly,  he  saw  a  man's  foreign  wristwatch.  He  wondered  who  she  was,  and  how  the  watch  had  come  to  her,  but  he  had  been  here  two  years  now-long  enough  to  know  he  would  never  be  answered.  He  also  wondered  if  the  girls  were  as  shabby  as  his  guest  found  everyone  in  [REDACTED].  His  way  of  seeing  women  was  not  concerned  with  that  sort  of  evidence:  shoes  were  shoes,  a  frock  was  a  frock.  The  girls  took  no  notice  of  the  Colonel.  He  was  invisible  to  them,  wiped  out  of  being  by  a  curtain  pulled  over  the  inner  eye.  He  felt  his  guest's  silence,  then  his  wife's.  The  visitor's  profile  was  a  kit-  ten's,  to  match  her  voice.  She  was  twenty-two,  which  his  Catherine  would  never  be.  Her  gold  dress,  packed  for  improbable  gala  evenings,  seemed  the  size  of  a  bathing  suit.  She  was  divorcing  someone,  or  someone  in  [REDACTED]  had  left  her-he  remembered  that,  but  not  her  name.  He  moved  an  inch  or  two  to  the  left  and  muttered,  &quot;It's  Ivan.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  cried  his  wife.  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  In  the  old  days,  before  their  Cather-  ine  had  died,  when  the  Colonel's  wife  was  still  talking  to  him,  he  had  tried  to  hush  her  in  public  places  sometimes,  and  so  the  habitof  loudness  had  taken  hold.  &quot;It  isn't  Boris.  It  isn't  Igor.  It's  Ivan.  They  must  both  have  had  sore  throats.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well,  bugger  it,&quot;  said  his  wife.  Amabel  supposed  thatthe  Colonel's  wife  had  grown  peculiar  through  hav-  ing  lived  so  many  years  in  foreign  parts.  Having  no  one  to  speak  to,  she  conversed  alone.  Half  of  Mrs.  Plummer's  character  was  quite  coarse,  though  a  finer  Mrs.  Plummer  some-  how  kept  order.  Low-minded  Mrs.  Plummer  chatted  amiably  and  aloud  with  her  high-minded  twin-far  more  pleasantly  than  the  whole  of  Mrs.  Plummer  ever  talked  to  anybody.  &quot;Serves  you  right,&quot;  she  said.  Amabel  gave  a  little  jump.  She  wondered  if  Mrs.  Plummer's  remark  had  anything  to  do  with  the  opera.  She  turned  her  head  cautiously.  Mrs.  Plummer  had  again  closed  her  eyes.  The  persistence  of  memory  deter-  mines  what  each  day  ofthe  year  will  be  like,  the  Colonel's  wife  decided.  Not  what  happens  on  New  Year's  Eve.  This  morning  I  was  in  [REDACTED];  be-  tween  the  curtains  snow  was  falling.  The  day  had  no  color.  It  might  have  been  late  afternoon.  Then  the  smell  of  toast  came  into  my  room  and  I  was  back  in  my  mother's  dining  room  in  Victoria,  with  the  gros-point  chairs  and  the  framed  embroidered  grace  on  the  wall.  A  little  girl  I  had  been  ordered  to  play  with  kicked  the  baseboard,  wait-  ing  for  us  to  finish  our  breakfast.  A  devilish  little  boy,  Hume  something,     Pastow  25  was  on  my  mind.  I  was  already  at-  tracted  to  devils,  I  believed  in  their  powers.  My  mother's  incompetence  about  choosing  friends  for  me  shaped  my  life,  because  that  child,  who  kicked  the  baseboard  and  left  marks  on  the  paint  ...  When  she  and  her  husband  had  still  been  speaking,  this  was  how  Frances  Plummer  had  talked.  She  had  offered  him  hours  of  reminiscence,  and  the  long  personal  thoughts  that  lead  to  quarrels.  In  those  days  red  wine  had  made  her  aggressive,  whiskey  made  him  vague.  Not  only  vague,  she  corrected;  stubborn  too.  Speak?!  said  one  halfof  Mrs.  Plummer  to  the  other.  Did  we  speak?  We  yelled!  The  quict  twin  demanded  a  fairer  portrait  ofthe  past,  for  she  had  no  memory.  Oh,  he  was  a  shuffler,  back  and  forth  between  wife  and  mustress,  said  the  virago,  who  had  forgotten  noth-  ing.  He'd  desert  one  and  then  leave  the  other-flag  to  flag,  false  convert,  double  agent,  reason  why  a  number  of  women  had  long,  hilly  conversations,  like  the  view  from  a  train-monoto-  nous,  finally.  That  was  the  view  a  minute  ago,  you'd  say.  Yes,  but  look  now.  The  virago  declared  him  incom-  petent;  said  he  had  shuffled  from  em-  bassy  to  embassy  as  well,  pushed  along  by  a  staunch  ability  to  retain  languages,  an  untiring  recollection  of  military  his-  tory  and  wars  nobody  cared  about.  What  did  he  take  with  him?  His  wife,  for  one  thing.  At  least  she  was  here,  tonight,  at  the  opera.  Each  time  they  changed  countries  he  supervised  the  packing  of  a  portrait  of  his  mother,  wearing  white,  painted  when  she  was  seventcen.  He  had  nothing  of  Cath-  erine's:  when  Catherine  died,  Mrs.  Plummer  gave  away  her  clothes  and  her  books,  andhad  her  little  dog  put  to  sleep.  How  did  it  happen?  In  what  order?  said  calm  Mrs.  Plummer.  Try  and  think  it  in  order.  He  shuffled  away  one  Easter;  came  shuffling  back;  and  Catherine  died.  It  is  useless  to  say,  &quot;Serves  you  right,&quot;  for  whatever  served  him  served  you.  The  overture  told  Amabel  nothing,  and  by  the  end  of  the  first  act  she  still  didnot  know  the  name  of  the  opera  or  understand  what  it  was  about.  Ear-  lier  in  the  davy  the  Colonel  had  said,  &quot;There  is  some  uncertainty--sore  throats  here  and  there.  The  car,  now-  you  can  see  what  has  happened.  It  doesn't  start.  If  our  taxi  should  fail  us,  and  isn't  really  a  taxi,  we  might  arrive  " b"  at  the  Bolshoi  too  late  for  me  to  do  anything  much  in  the  way  of  explain-  ing.  But  you  can  easily  figure  it  out  for  yourself.&quot;  His  mind  cleared;  his  face  lightened.  &quot;If  you  happen  to  see  Tartar  dances,  then  you  will  know  it  is  Igor.  Otherwise  it  is  Boris.&quot;  The  instant  the  lights  rose,  Amabel  thrust  her  program  at  him  and  said,  &quot;What  does  that  mean?&quot;  &quot;Why,  Ivan.  It's  Ivan.&quot;  &quot;'There  are.  two  words,  there?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  What's-His-  Name  had  a  sore  throat,  d'you  see?  We  knew  it  might  all  be  changed  at  any  moment.  It  was  clever  of  them  to  get  these  printed  in  time.&quot;  Mrs.  Plummer,  who  looked  like  the  Red  Queen  sometimes,  said,  &quot;A  life  forthe  tsar,&quot;  meanwhile  staring  straight  ahead  of  her.  &quot;Used  to  be,  used  to  bC,\xe2\x80\x9d  said  the  Colonel,  and  he  smiled  at  Amabel,  as  if  to  say  to  her,  Now  you  know.  The  Plummers  did  not  go  out  between  acts,  They  never  smoked,  were  seldom  thirsty  or  hungry,  and  they  hated  crowds.  Amabel  stood  and  stretched  so  that  the  Russians  could  appreciate  her  hair,  her  waist,  her  thin  arms,  and,  for  those  lucky  enough  to  glimpse  them,  her  thighs.  After  a  moment  or  two  Mrs.  Plummer  thought  the  Russians  had  appreciated  Amabel  enough,  and  she  said  very  aren't     loudly,  &quot;You  might  be  more  com-  fortable  sitting  down.&quot;  &quot;Lakm\xc3\xa9  is  coming,&quot;  said  the  Colo-  nel,  for  it  was  his  turn  to  speak.  &quot;It's  far  and  away  my  favorite  opera.  It  makes  an  awful  fool  of  the  officer  caste.&quot;  This  was  said  with  ambiguous  satisfaction.  He  was  not  really  disown-  ing  himself.  &quot;How  does  it  do  that?&quot;  said  Ama-  bel,  who  was  not  more  comfortable  sit-  ting  down.  &quot;Why,  an  officer  runs  off  with  the  daughter  of  a  temple  priest.  No  one  would  ever  have  got  away  with  that.  Though  the  military  are  awful  fools  most  of  the  time.&quot;  &quot;You're  that  class-caste,  I  mean-  aren't  you?&quot;  The  Colonel  supposed  that  like  most  people  he  belonged  to  the  same  caste  as  his  father  and  mother.  His  father  had  worn  a  wig  and  been  photographed  wearing  it  just  before  he  died.  His  mother,  still  living,  rising  eighty,  was  given  to  choked  melancholy  laughter  over  nothing,  ahabit  carried  over  from  a  girlhood  of  Anglican  giggling.  It  was  his  mother  the  Colonel  had  wanted  in  [REDACTED]  this  Christmas-not  Amabel.  He  had  wanted  to  bring  her  even  if  it  killed  her;  even  if  she  choked  to  death  on  her  own  laughter  as  she  shook  tea  out  of  a  cup  because  her  hand  trem-  bled,  or  if  she  laughed  and  said,  &quot;My  dear  boy,  nobody  forced  you  to  marry  JANUARY  10,  1970  Frances.&quot;  The  Colonel  saw  himself  serene,  immune  to  re-  minders;  observed  a  new  Colo-  nel  Plummer  crowned  with  a  wig,  staring  out  of  a  photo-  graph,  in  the  uniform  his  father  had  worn  at  Vimy  Ridge;  sure  of  himself  and  still,  faded  to  a  plain  soft  neutral  color;  unhear-  ing,  at  peace-dead,  in  short.  He  had  dreamed  of  sending  the  plane  ticket,  of  meeting  his  mother  at  the  airport  with  a  fur  coat  over  his  arm  in  case  she  had  come  dressed  for  the  wrong  winter;  had  imagined  giving  her  tea  and  watching  her  drink  it  out  ofa  glass  set  in  a  metal  base  decorated  all  over  with  Soviet  cosmonauts;  had  sat  be-  side  her  here,  at  the  Bolshoi,  at  a  performance  of  &quot;Eugene  Onegin,&quot;  which  she  once  had  loved.  It  seemed  fitting  that  he  now  do  some  tactful,  unneeded,  appreciated  thing  for  her,  at  last-she  who  had  never  done  anything  for  him.  One  evening  his  wife  had  looked  up  from  the  paperback  spy  novel  she  was  reading  at  dinner  and-having  waited  for  him  to  notice  she  was  neither  eating  nor  turn-  ing  pages-remarked  that  Amabel  Bacon,  who  had  been  Amabel  Fisher,  that  pretty  child  Catherine  roomed  with  in  school,  had  asked  if  she  might  come  to  them  for  ten  days  at  Christ-  mas,  &quot;'Nothing  for  children  here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  not  much  space.&quot;  &quot;She  must  be  twenty-two,&quot;  said  his  wife,  &quot;and  can  stay  in  a  hotel.&quot;  They  stared  at  each  other,as  if  they  were  strangers  in  a  crush  somewhere  and  her  earring  had  caught  on  his  coat.  Their  looks  disentangled.  That  night  Mrs.  Plummer  wrote  to  Amabel  say-  ing  that  they  did  not  know  any  young  people;  that  Mrs.  Plummer  played  bridge  from  three  to  six  every  after-  noon;  that  the  Colonel  was  busy  at  the  embassy;  that  it  was  difficult  to  find  seats  at  the  ballet;  that  it  was  too  cold  for  sightseeing;  Lenin's  tomb  was  tem-  porarily  closed;  there  was  nothing  in  the  way  of  shopping;  the  Plummers,  not  being  greatmixers,  avoided  parties;  they  planned  to  spend  a  quiet  Christ-  mas  and  New  Year's;  and  Amabel  was  welcome.  Amabel  seemed  to  have  forgotten  her  question  about  the  officer  caste.  &quot;...  hissing  and  whispering  behind  us  the  whole  time&quot;  was  what  she  was  saving  now.  &quot;I  could  hardly  hear  the  music.&quot;  She  had  a  smile  ready,  so  that  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  if  the  Colonel  did  look  at  her  he  would  realize  she  was  pleased  to  be  at  the  Bolshoi  and  not  really  complaining.  &quot;I  suppose  you  know  every  note  by  heart,  so  you  aren't  bothered  by  extra  noise.&quot;  She  paused,  wondering  if  the  Colonel  was  hard  of  hearing.  &quot;I  hate  whisper-  ing.  It's  more  bothersome  than  some-  thing  loud.  It's  like  that  hissing  you  get  on  stereo  sometimes,  like  water  run-  ning.&quot;  &quot;Water  running?&quot;  said  the  Colonel,  not  deafly  but  patiently.  &quot;I  mean  the  people  behind  us.&quot;  &quot;A  mother  explaining  to  a  child,&quot;  he  said,  without  looking.  Amabel  turned,  pretending  she  was  only  lifting  her  long,  soft  hair  away  from  her  neck.  She  saw  a  little  girl,  wearing  a  white  hair  ribbon  the  size  of  a  melon,  leaning  against,  and  some-  how  folded  into,  a  seal-shaped  mother.  The  two  shared  a  pear,  bite  for  bite.  Everyone  around  them  was  feeding,  in  fact.  It's  a  zoo,  Amabel  thought.  On  the  far  side  of  the  Colonel,  two  girls  munched  on  chocolates.  They  un-  wrapped  each  slowly,  and  dropped  the  paper  back  in  the  box.  Amabel  sighed  and  said,  &quot;Are  they  happy?  Cheap  entertainment  isn't  everything.  Once  you've  seen  'Swan  Lake  a  hun-  dred  times,  what  is  there  to  do  here?&quot;  Mrs.  Plummer  slapped  at  her  ban-  gles  and  said,  &quot;We  were  told  when  we  were  in  [REDACTED]  that  children  with  filthy  eye  diseases  and  beg-  ging  their  food  were  perfect-  ly  happy.&quot;  &quot;Well,  at  least  they  have  the  sun  in  those  places,&quot;  said  Amabel.  She  had  asked  the  unanswerable  only  because  she  herself  was  so  unhappy.  It  was  true  that  she  had  left  her  husband-it  was  not  the  other  way  around-but  he  had  done  nothing  to  keep  her.  She  had  imagined  pouring  all  this  out  to  dead  Catherine's  moth-  er,  who  had  always  been  so  kind  on  school  holidays  because  Amabel's  parents  were  di-  vorced;  who  had  invited  her  to  4974616c79  once,  and  another  time  to  [REDACTED].  Why  else  had  Amabel  come  all  this  way  at  Christmastime,  if  not  to  be  adopted?  She  had  fancied  her-  self  curled  at  the  foot  of  Mrs.  Plummer's  bed,  Mrs.  Plum-  mer  with  a  grey  braid  down  on  one  shoulder,  her  reading  spectacles  held  between  fin-  ger  and  thumb,  her  book-  one  of  the  thick  accounts  of  somebody's  life  at  [REDACTED],  the  reading  of  the  elderly-slipping  off  the  counterpane  as  she  became  more  and  more  engrossed  in  Amabel's  story.  She  had  seen  Mrs.  Plummer  handing  her  a  deep-blue  leather  case  stamped  withdead  Catherine's  initials.  The  lid,  held  backby  Mrs.  Plummer,  was  lined  with  sky-blue  moire;  the  case  contained  Catherine's  first  coral  bracelet,  her  gold  sleeper  rings,  her  first  locket,  her  chains  and  charm  bracelets,  a  string  of  pearls,  her  childless  godmother's  engagement  ring.  ...  &quot;I  have  no  one  to  leave  these  to,  and  Catherine  was  so  fond  of  you,&quot;  said  a  fantastic  Mrs.  Plummer.  None  of  it  could  happen,  of  course:  from  a  chance  phrase  Amabel  learned  that  the  Plummers  had  given  every-  thing  belonging  to  Catherine  to  the  gardener's  children  ofthat  house  in  4974616c79  where  Catherine  caught  spinal  meningitis  and  died.  Moreover,  Ama-  bel  never  saw  so  much  asthe  wall-  paper  of  Mrs.  Plummer's  bedroom.  When  she  hinted  at  her  troubles,  said  something  about  a  wasted  life,  Mrs.  Plummer  cut  her  off  with  &quot;Most  lives  are  wasted.  All  are  shortchanged.  A  few  are  tragic.&quot;  The  Plummers  lived  in  a  dark,  drab,  high-ceilinged  flat.  They  had  some-  how  escaped  the  foreigners'  compound,  but  their  isolation  was  deeper,  as  27  though  they  were  embedded  in  a  large  block  of  ice.  Amabel  had  been  put  in  a  new  hotel,  to  which  the  Colonel  conducted  hereach  night  astonishing,  ly  early.  They  ate  their  dinner  at  a  nursery  hour,  and  as  soon  as  Amabel  had  drunk  the  last  of  the  decaffein-  ated  coffee  the  Plummers  served,  the  Colonel  guided  her  over  the  pave-  ment  to  where  his  Rover  was  waiting  and  freezing,  then  drove  her  along  streets  nearly  empty  of  traffic,  but  where  lights  signalled  and  were  obeyed,  so  that  it  was  like  driving  in  a  dream,  The  sidewalks  were  dark  with  crowds.  She  wiped  the  mist  away  from  the  window  with  her  glove,  and  saw  people  dragging  Christmas  trees  along-not  for  Christmas,  for  the  New  Year,  Colonel  Plummer  told  her.  When  he  left  her  in  the  hotel  lobby  it  was  barely  half  past  eight.  She  felt  as  if  her  visit  were  a  film  seen  in  frag-  ments,  with  someone's  head  moving  back  and  forth  in  front  of  her  face;  or  as  if  someone  had  been  describing  a  story  while  a  blind  flapped  and  a  win-  dow  banged.  In  the  end  she  would  re-  call  nothing  except  shabby  strangers  dragging  fir  trees  through  the  dark.  &quot;Are  you  enjoying  it?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Plummer,  snatching  away  from  the  Colonel  a  last-ditch  possibility.  He  had    " b"28     certainly  intended  to  ask  this  question  next  time  his  turn  came  round.  &quot;'Yes,  though  I'd  appreciate  it  more  if  I  understood,&quot;  said  Amabel.  &quot;Prob-  ably.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  care  for  music?&quot;  &quot;I  love  music.  Understood  Russian,  I  meant.&quot;  Mrs.  Plummer  did  not  understand  Russian,  did  not  need  it,  and  did  not  miss  it.  She  had  not  heard  a  thing  said  to  her  in  French,  or  in  Spanish,  let  alone  any  of  the  Hamitic  tongues,  when  she  and  the  Colonel  were  in  [REDACTED];  and  she  had  not  cared  to  learn  any  Italian  in  4974616c79.  She  went  to  bed  early  every  night  and  read  detective  novels.  She  was  in  bed  before  nine  unless  an  official  reason  kept  her  from  going.  She  would  not  buy  new  clothes  now;  would  not  trouble  about  her  hair,  ex-  cept  for  cutting  it.  She  played  bridge  every  afternoon  for  money.  When  she  had  enough,  she  intended  to  leave  him.  Dollars,  pounds,  francs,  crowns,  lire,  deutsche  marks,  and  guldens  were  rolled  up  in  nylon  stockings  and  held  fast  with  elastic  bands.  But  of  course  she  would  never  be  able  to  leave  him:  she  would  never  have  enough  money,  though  she  had  been  saving,  and  rehearsing  her  farewell,  for  years.  She  had  memorized  every  word  and  seen  each  stroke  of  punctuation,  so  that  when  the  moment  arrived  she  would  not  be  at  a  loss.  The  parting  speech  would  spring  from  her  like  a  separate  Frances.  Sentences  streamed  across  a  swept  sky.  They  were  pure,  white,  unblemished  by  love  or  compas-  sion.  She  felt  a  complicity  with  her  vic-  tim.  She  leaned  past  their  guest  and  spoke  to  him  and  drew  his  attention  to  something  by  touching  his  hand.  He  immediately  placed  his  right  hand,  the  hand  holding  the  program,  over  hers,  so  that  the  clasp,  the  loving  conspiracy,  was  kept  hidden.  So  it  appeared  to  Amabel-a  loving  conspiracy.  She  was  embarrassed,  be-  cause  they  were  too  old  for  this;  then  she  was  envious,  then  jealous.  She  hated  them  for  flaunting  their  long  understanding,  making  her  seem  dis-  carded,  left  out  of  a  universal  game.  No  one  would  love  her  the  way  the  Colonel  loved  his  wife.  Mrs.  Plummer  finished  whatever  trivial  remark  she  had  considered  urgent  and  sat  back,  very  straight,  and  shook  down  her  Mo-  roccan  bangles,  and  touched  each  of  her  long  earrings  tosee  if  it  was  still  in  place-as  if  the  exchange  of  words  with  the  Colonel  had  in  fact  been  a  passionate  embrace.  Amabel  pretended  to  read  the  pro-  gram,  but  it  was  all  in  Russian;  there  wasn't  a  word  of  translation.  She  wished  she  had  never  come.  The  kinder  half  of  Mrs.  Plummer  said  aloud  to  her  darker  twin,  &quot;Oh,  well,  she  is  less  trouble  than  that  damned  military-cultural  mission  last  summer.&quot;  Tears  stood  in  Amabel's  eyes  and  she  had  to  hold  her  head  as  stiffly  as  Mrs.  Plummer  did;  otherwise  the  tears  might  have  spilled  on  her  program  and  thousands  of  people  would  have  heard  them  fall.  Later,  the  Plummers  would  drop  her  at  her  hotel,  which  could  have  been  in  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED],  or  in  [REDACTED];  where  there  was  no  one  to  talk  to,  and  where  she  was  not  loved.  In  her  room  was  a  tapped  cream-colored  telephone  with  framed  instructions  in  a  secret  alphabet,  and  an  oil  painting  of  peonies  concealing  a  microphone  to  which  a  Russian  had  his  ear  glued  the  clock  around.  There  were  three  thousand  rooms  in  the  hotel,  which  meant  three  thousand  microphones  and  an  army  of  three  thousand  listeners.  Amabel  kept  her  coat,  snow  boots,  and  traveller's  checks  on  a  chair  drawn  up  to  the  bedside,  and  she  slept  in  her  bra  and  panties  in  case  they  came  to  arrest  her  during  the  night.  &quot;My  bath  runs  sand,&quot;  she  said.  Mrs.  Plummer  merely  looked  with  one  eye,  like  acanary.  &quot;In  my  hotel,&quot;  said  Amabel.  &quot;Sand  comes  out  of  the  tap.  It's  in  the  bath  water.&quot;  &quot;Speak  to  the  manager,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Plummer,  who  would  not  put  up  with  complaints  from  newcomers.  She  paused,  conceding  that  what  she  had  just  advised  was  surrealistic.  &quot;I've  found  the  local  water  clean.  I  drink  quarts  of  it.&quot;  &quot;But  to  bathe  in  ...  wash  my  stockings  .  ..&quot;  &quot;One  thing  you  will  never  hear  of  is  typhoid  here,&quot;  said  the  Colonel,  kindly,  to  prevent  his  wife  from  saying,  &quot;Don't  wash  your  damned  stockings.&quot;  He  took  the  girl's  program  and  looked  at  it,  as  if  it  were  in  some  way  unlike  his  own.  He  turned  to  the  season's  events  on  the  back  page  and  said,  &quot;Oh,  it  isn't  Lakm\xc3\xa9  after  all,&quot;  meanwhile  wondering  if  that  was  what  had  upset  her.  Amabel  saw  that  she  would  never  attract  a  man  againg  she  would  never  be  loved,  for  she  had  not  held  even  the  Colonel's  attention.  First  he  sat  hum-  ming  the  music  they  had  just  heard,  then  he  was  hypnotized  by  the  pro-  gram,  then  he  looked  straight  up  at  the  ceiling  and  brought  his  gaze  down  to  the  girls  sitting  next  to  the  aisle.  What  was  so  special  about  them?  Amabel  leaned  forward,  as  if  looking  for  a  dropped  glove.  She  saw  two  heads,  bare  round  arms,  a  pink  slip  strap  dropped  on  the  curve  of  a  shoulder,  One  of  the  girls  divided  an  orange,  holding  it  out  so  the  juice  would  not  drip  on  her  knees.  They  all  look  like  servants,  thought  the  unhappy  guest.  I  can't  help  it.  That's  what  they  look  like.  They  dress  like  maids.  I'm  having  a  rotten  time.  She  glanced  at  the  Colonel  and  thought,  They're  his  type.  But  he  must  have  been  good-looking  once.  The  Colonel  was  able  to  learn  the  structure  of  any  language,  given  a  few  pages  of  colloquial  prose  and  a  dic-  tionary.  His  wife  was  deaf  to  strangers,  and  when  I  " b"   and  she  barely  noticed  the  people  she  could  not  understand.  As  a  result,  the  Colonel  had  grown  accustomed  to  being  alone  among  hordes  of  ghosts.  WithAmabel  still  mewing  beside  him,  he  heard  in  the  ghost  language  only  he  could  capture,  &quot;Yes,  but  are  you  happy?&quot;  His  look  went  across  the  ceiling  and  came  down  to  the  girls.  The  one  who  had  whispered  the  question  was  rapt;  she  held  a  section  of  orange  sus-  pended  a  few  inches  from  her  lips  as  she  waited.  But  the  lights  dimmed.  &quot;Cht,&quot;  her  friend  cautioned.  She  gathered  up  the  peelings  on  her  lap  in  a  paper  bag.  Mrs.  Plummer  suddenly  said  clearly  to  herself  or  to  Amabel,  &quot;My  mother  used  to  make  her  children  sing.  If  you  sing,  you  must  be  happy.  That  was  another  idea  of  happiness.&quot;  Amabel  thought,  Every  day  of  the  year  will  be  like  tonight.  He  doesn't  look  at  women  now,  said  Mrs.  Plummer  silently.  Doesn't  dare.  Every  girl  is  a  wife  screaming  for  justice  and  revenge;  a  mistress  deserted,  her  life  shrunk  down  to  a  postage  stamp;  a  daughter  dead.  He  walked  away  in  4974616c79,  after  a  violent  drinking  quarrel,  with  Cath-  erine  there  in  the  house.  Instead  of  calling  after  him,  Mrs.  Plummer  sat  still  for  an  hour,  then  remembered  she  had  forgotten  to  leave  some  money  for  the  postman  for  Easter.  It  was  early  morning;  she  was  dressed;  neither  of  them  had  been  to  bed.  She  found  an  envelope,  the  kind  she  used  for  mes-  sages  to  servants  and  the  local  trades-  men,  and  crammed  a  thousand-lire  note  inside.  She  was  sober  and  cursing.  She  scribbled  the  postman's  name.  Catherine,  in  the  garden,  on  her  knees,  tore  out  the  pansy  plants  she  had  put  in  the  little  crevices  between  paving  stones  the  day  before.  She  looked  up  at  her  mother.  &quot;Have  you  had  your  breakfast?&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;It's  no  use  chasing  them,&quot;  Cath-  erine  answered.  &quot;They've  gone.&quot;  That  was  how  he  had  done  it--the  old  shufflier:  chosen  the  Easter  holiday,  when  his  daughter  was  home  from  school,  down  in  4974616c79,  to  creep  away.  And  Catherine  understood,  forshe  said  &quot;them,&quot;  though  she  had  never  known  that  the  other  person  existed.  Well,  of  course  he  came  shuffling  back,  because  of  Catherine.  All  was  safe:  wife  was  there,  home  safe,  daughter  safe,  books  in  place,  wine  cellar  intact,  career  unchipped.  He  came  out  of  it  scot-free,  except  that  Catherine  died.  Was  it  accurate  tosay,  &quot;Serves  you  right?&quot;  Was  it  fair?  Yes!  Yes!  &quot;Serves  you  right!&quot;  Amabel  heard,  and  supposed  it  could  only  have  to  do  with  the  plot  of  the  opera.  She  said  to  herself,  It  will  soon  be  over.  The  thing  he  was  most  afraid  of  now  was  losing  his  memory.  Sometimes  he  came  to  breakfast  wearing  two  kinds  of  shoes.  He  could  go  five  times  to  a  window  to  see  if  snow  was  falling  and  forget  each  time  why  he  was  standing  there.  He  had  thrown  three  hundred  dollars  in  a  wastepaper  basket  and  carefully  kept  an  elastic  band.  It  was  of  extreme  importance  that  he  re-  member  his  guest's  name.  The  name  was  royal,  or  imperial,  he  seemed  to  re-  call.  Straight  down  an  imperial  tree  he  climbed,  counting  off  leaves:  Julia,  Oc-  tavia,  Livia,  Cleopatra-not  likely-  Messalina,  Claudia,  Domitia.  [REDACTED]?  It  was  a  name  with  two  &quot;a's  but  with  an  &quot;m&quot;  and  not  an  &quot;n.&quot;  &quot;Marcia,&quot;  he  said  in  the  dark,  half  turning  to  her.  &quot;It's  Amabel,  actually,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  don't  even  know  a  Marcia.&quot;  Like  a  child  picking  up  a  piece  of  glass  and  in-  nocently  throwing  it,  she  said,  &quot;I  don't  think  Catherine  knew  any  Marcias  ei-  ther.&quot;  The  woman  behind  them  hissed  for  silence.  Amabel  swung  round,  abruptly  this  time,  and  saw  that  the  little  girl  had  fallen  asleep.  Her  ribbon  was  askew,  like  a  frayed  birthday  wrapping.  The  Colonel  slept  for  a  minute  and  dreamed  that  his  mother  was  a  reed,  or  a  flower.  &quot;If  only  you  had  always  been  like  that!&quot;  he  cried,  in  the  dream.  Amabel  thought  that  the  scene  of  the  jewel  case  still  might  take  place:  a  tap  at  the  hotel-room  door  tomorrow  morning,  and  there  would  be  Mrs.  Plummer,  tall  and  stormy,  in  her  rusty-  orange  ancient  mink,  with  her  square  fur  bonnet,  first  visitor  of  the  year,  starting  the  new  cycle  with  a  noble  gesture.  She  undid  a  hastily  wrapped  parcel,  saying,  &quot;Nothing  really  valua-  ble-Catherine  was  too  young.&quot;  But  no,  for  everything  of  Catherine's  be-  longed  to  the  gardener's  children  in  4974616c79  now.  Amabel  rearranged  tomor-  row  morning:  Mrs.  Plummer  brought  her  own  case  and  said,  &quot;I  have  no  one  to  leave  anything  to  except  a  dog  hos-  pital,&quot;  and  there  was  Amabel,  sitting  up  in  bed,  hugging  her  knees,  loved  at  last,  looking  at  emeralds.  Without  speaking,  Colonel  Plummer  and  his  wife  each  understood  what  the  other  had  thought  of  the  opera,  the  staging,  and  the  musical  quality  of  the  evening;  they  also  knew  where  Mrs.  Plummer  would  waitwith  Amabel  while  he  struggled  to  the  cloakroom  to  fetch  their  wraps.  He  had  taken  great  care  to  stay  close  behind  the  two  girls.  For  one  thing,  he  had  not  yet  had  the  answer  to  &quot;Are  you  happy?&quot;  He  heard  now,  &quot;I  am  twenty-one  years  old  and  I  have  not  succeeded  ...&quot;  and  then  he  was  wrenched  out  of  the  queue.  Pushing  back,  pretending  to  be  armored  against  unknown  forces,  like  his  wife,  he  heard  someone  insult  him  and  smiled  uncom-  prehendingly.  No  one  knew  how  much  he  understood-except  for  his  wife.  It  was  as  though  he  listened  to  stones,  or  snow,  or  trees  speaking.  &quot;...even  though  we  went  to  a  restaurant  and  I  paid  for  his  dinner,&quot;  said  the  same  girl,  who  had  not  even  looked  round,  and  for  whom  the  Colonel  had  no  exist-  " b"30  ence.  &quot;The  next  night  he  came  to  the  door  very  late.  My  parents  were  in  bed.  He  had  come  from  some  stuffy  place--his  coat  stank.  But  he  looked  clean  and  important.  He  always  does.  We  went  into  the  kitchen.  He  said  he  had  come  up  because  he  cared  and  could  not  spend  an  evening  without  seeing  me,  and  then  he  said  he  had  no  money,  or  had  lost  his  money  some-  where.  I  did  not  want  my  mother  to  hear.  I  said,  'Now  I  know  why  you  came  to  see  me.'  I  gave  him  money-  how  could  I  refuse?  He  knows  we  keep  it  in  the  same  drawer  as  the  knives  and  forks.  He  could  have  helped  himself,  but  instead  he  was  careful  not  to  look  at  the  drawer  at  all.  When  he  wants  to  show  tenderness,  he  presses  his  face  to  my  cheek,  his  lips  as  quiet  as  his  forehead-  it  is  like  being  embraced  by  a  dead  ani-  mal.  I  was  ashamed  to  think  he  knew  I  would  always  be  there  waiting.  He  thinks  he  can  come  in  whenever  he  sees  a  light  from  the  street.  I  have  no  ad-  vantage  from  my  loyalty,  only  disad-  vantages.&quot;  Her  friend  seemed  to  be  meditating  deeply.  &quot;If  you  are  not  happy,  it  might  be  your  fault,&quot;  she  said.  The  cloakroom  attendant  flung  first  the  girls'  coats  and  woollen  caps  on  the  counter,  and  then  their  boots,  which  had  been  stored  in  numbered  cubby-  holes  underneath,  and  it  was  the  Colo-  nel's  turn  to  give  up  plastic  tokens  in  exchange  for  his  wife's  old  fur-lined  cloak,  Amabel's  inadequate  jacket,  his  own  overcoat-but  of  course  the  girls  were  lost,  and  he  would  never  see  them  again.  What  nagged  at  him  was  that  disgraceful  man.  Oh,  he  could  imagine  him  well  enough:  an  elegant  black-  marketeer,  speaking  five  languages,  wearing  a  sable  hat,  following  tourists  in  the  snow,  offering  icons  in  exchange  for  hard  currency.  It  would  explain  the  watch  and  perhaps  even  the  choco-  lates  and  oranges.  &quot;His  coat  stank&quot;  and  &quot;he  looked  clean  and  important&quot;  were  typically  feminine  contradictions,  of  un-  equal  value.  He  thought  he  saw  the  girls  a  moment  later,  but  they  may  have  been  two  like  them,  leaning  on  a  wall,  holding  each  other's  coats  as  they  tugged  their  boots  on;  then  he  saw  them  laughing,  collapsed  in  each  other's     arms.  This  is  unusual,  he  told  himself,  for  when  do  people  laugh  in  public  anywhere  in  the  north-not  only  in  this  sullen  city?  He  thought,  as  though  suddenly  superior  to  the  person  he  had  been  only  a  minute  ago,  what  an  iron  thing  it  would  be  never  to  regret  one's  losses.  His  wife  and  Amabel  looked  too  alert,  as  if  they  had  been  discussing  him  and  would  now  pretend  to  talk  about  something  else.  &quot;'That  didn't  take  long,&quot;  remarked  Mrs.  Plummer,  meaning  to  say  that  it  had.  With  overwhelming  directness  she  said,  &quot;The  year  still  has  an  hour  to  run,  so  Amabel  tells  me,  and  so  we  had  bet-  ter  take  her  home  with  us  for  a  drink.&quot;  &quot;Only  an  hour  left  to  change  the  year  ahead,&quot;  said  Amabel  without  tact.  The  Colonel  knew  that  the  city  was  swept  by  a  Siberian  blizzard  and  that  their  taxi  would  be  nowhere  in  sight.  But  outside  he  saw  only  the  dust  of  snow  sifting  past  street  lights.  The  wind  had  fallen;  and  their  driver  was  wait-  ing  exactly  where  he  had  promised.  Colonel  Plummer  helped  Amabel  down  the  icysteps  of  the  opera  house,  then  went  back  for  his  wife.  Cutting  off  a  possible  question,  she  said,  &quot;I  can  make  a  bed  for  her  somewhere.&quot;  Wait,  he  said  silently,  looking  at  all  the  strangers  disappearing  in  the  last  hour  of  the  year.  Come  back,  he  said  to  the  girls.  Who  are  you?  Who  was  the  man?  Amabel's  little  nose  was  white  with  cold.  Though  this  was  not  her  turn  to  speak,  Mrs.  Plummer  glanced  down  at  her  guest,  who  could  not  yet  hear,  say-  ing,  &quot;  'He  is  not  glad  that  he  is  going  home,  nor  sorry  that  he  has  not  had  time  to  see  the  city  ...  &quot;  &quot;It's  'the  sights  of  the  city,  I  think,&quot;  said  the  Colonel.  &quot;I'll  look  it  up.&quot;  He  realized  he  was  not  losing  his  memory  after  all.  His  breath  came  and  went  as  if  he  were  still  very  young.  He  took  Ama-  bel's  arm  and  felt  her  shiver,  though  shedid  not  complain  about  the  weather  andhad  her  usual  hopeful  smile  ready  in  case  he  chose  to  look.  Hilarity  is  hap-  piness,  he  thought,  sad-  ly,  remembering  those  two  others.  Is  it?  Mrs.  Plummer  took  her  turn  by  remarking,  &quot;Used  to  read  the  same  books,&quot;  to  no  one  in  particular.  Without  another  word,  the  Plum-  mers  climbed  into  the  taxi  and  drove  with  Amabel  back  to  the  heart  of  their  isolation,  where  there  was  no  room  for  a  third  person;  but  the  third  person  knew  nothing  about  this,  and  so  for  Amabel  the  year  was  saved. "