THE  T  about  three  o'clock  in  the  after-  noon,  [REDACTED]  Popkin  began  to  prepare  to  go  down  to  the  street.  Going  out  was  connected  with  many  difficulties,  especially  on  a  hot  summer  day:  first,  forcing  her  fat  body  into  a  corset,  squeezing  her  swollen  feet  into  shoes,  and  combing  her  hair,  which  [REDACTED]  dyed  at  home  and  which  grew  wild  and  was  streaked  in  all  colors-yellow,  black,  gray,  red;  then  making  sure  that  while  she  was  out  her  neighbors  would  not  break  into  her  apartment  and  steal  linen,  clothes,  documents,  or  just  disarrange  things  and  make  them  disappear.  Besides  human  tormentors,  [REDACTED]  suffered  from  demons,  imps,  Evil  Pow-  ers.  She  hid  her  eyeglasses  in  the  night  table  and  found  them  in  a  slipper.  She  placed  her  bottle  of  hair  dye  in  the  medicine  chest;  days  later  she  discov-  ered  it  under  the  pillow.  Once,  she  left  a  pot  of  borsch  in  the  refrigerator,  but  the  Unseen  took  it  from  there  and  after  long  searching  [REDACTED]  came  upon  it  in  her  clothes  closet.  On  its  surface  was  a  thick  layer  of  fat  that  gave  off  the  smell  of  rancid  tallow.  What  she  went  through,  how  many  tricks  were  played  on  her  and  how  much  she  had  to  wrangle  in  order  not  to  perish  or  fall  into  insanity,  only  God  knew.  She  had  given  up  the  telephone  because  racketeers  and  degenerates  called  her  day  and  night,  trying  to  get  secrets  out  of  her.  The  Puerto  Rican  milkman  once  tried  to  rape  her.  The  errand  boy  from  the  grocery  store  attempted  to  burn  her  belong-  ings  with  a  cigarette.  To  evict  her  from  the  rent-controlled  apartment  where  she  had  lived  for  thirty-five  years,  the  company  and  the  superintendent  infested  her  rooms  with  rats,  mice,  cock-  roaches.  [REDACTED]  had  long  ago  realized  that  no  means  were  adequate  against  those  determined  to  be  spiteful-not  the  met-  al  door,  the  special  lock,  her  letters  to  the  police,  the  mayor,  the  F.B.I.,  and  even  the  President  in  [REDACTED].  But  while  one  breathed  one  had  to  eat.  It  all  took  time:  checking  the  windows,  the  gas  vents,  securing  the  drawers.  Her  paper  money  she  kept  in  volumes  of  the  encyclopedia,  in  back  copies  of  the  National  Geographic,  and  in  Sam  Popkin's  old  ledgers.  Her  stocks  and  bonds  [REDACTED]  had  hidden  among  the  logs  in  the  fireplace,  which  was  never  used,  as  well  as  under  the  seats  of  the  easy  chairs.  Her  jewels  she  had  sewn  into  the  mattress.  There  was  a  time  when  [REDACTED]  had  safe-deposit  boxes  at     KEY  the  bank,  but  she  long  ago  convinced  herself  that  the  guards  there  had  pass-  keys.  At  about  five  o'clock,  [REDACTED]  was  ready  to  go  out.  She  gave  a  last  look  at  herself  in  the  mirror-small,  broad,  with  a  narrow  forehead,  a  flat  nose,  and  eyes  slanting  and  half  closed,  like  a  Chinaman's.  Her  chin  sprouted  a  little  white  beard.  She  wore  a  faded  dress  in  a  flowered  print,  a  misshapen  straw  hat  trimmed  with  wooden  cher-  ries  and  grapes,  and  shabby  shoes.  Before  she  left,  she  made  a  final  inspec-  tion  of  the  three  rooms  and  the  kitch-  en.  Everywhere  there  were  clothes,  shoes,  and  piles  of  letters  that  [REDACTED]  had  not  opened.  Her  husband,  Sam  Popkin,  who  had  died  almost  twenty  years  ago,  had  liquidated  his  real-estate  business  before  his  death,  because  he  was  about  to  retire  to  [REDACTED].  He  left  her  stocks,  bonds,  and  a  number  of  passbooks  from  savings  banks,  as  well  as  some  mortgages.  To  this  day,  firms  wrote  to  [REDACTED],  sent  her  reports,  checks.  The  Internal  Revenue  Service  claimed  taxes  from  her.  Every  few  weeks  she  received  announcements  from  a  funeral  company  thatsold  plots  in  an  &quot;airy  cemetery.&quot;  In  former  years,  [REDACTED]  used  to  answer  letters,  deposit  her  checks,  keep  track  of  her  income  and  expenses.  Lately  she  had  neglected  it  all.  She  even  stopped  buying  the  newspaper  and  reading  the  financial  section.  In  the  corridor,  [REDACTED]  tucked  cards  with  signs  on  them  that  only  she  could  recognize  between  the  door  and  the  door  frame.  The  keyhole  she  stuffed  with  putty.  What  else  could  she  do-a  widow  without  children,  relatives,  or  friends?  There  was  a  time  when  the  neigh-  bors  used  to  open  their  doors,  look  out,  and  laugh  at  her  exaggerated  care;  others  teased  her.  That  had  long  passed.  [REDACTED]  spoke  to  no  one.  She  didn't  see  well,  either.  The  glasses  she  had  worn  for  years  were  of  no  use.  To  go  to  an  eye  doctor  and  be  fitted  for  new  ones  was  too  much  of  an  effort.  Everything  was  difficult-even  enter-  ing  and  leaving  the  elevator,  whose  door  always  closed  with  a  slam.  BESSIE  seldom  went  farther  than  two  blocks  from  her  building.  The  street  between  [REDACTED]  and  River-  side  Drive  became  noisier  and  filthier  from  day  to  day.  Hordes  of  urchins     65  ran  around  half  naked.  Dark  men  with  curly  hair  and  wild  eyes  quarrelled  in  Spanish  with  little  women  whose  bellies  were  always  swollen  in  pregnancy.  They  talked  back  in  rattling  voices.  Dogs  barked,  cats  meowed.  Fires  broke  out  and  fire  engines,  ambulances,  and  police  cars  drove  up.  On  [REDACTED],  the  old  groceries  had  been  replaced  by  supermarkets,  where  food  must  be  picked  out  and  put  in  a  wagon  and  one  had  to  stand  in  line  before  the  cashier.  God  in  Heaven,  since  Sam  died,  New  York,  [REDACTED]-perhaps  the  whole  world-was  falling  apart.  All  the  decent  people  had  left  the  neigh-  borhood  and  it  was  overrun  by  a  mob  of  thieves,  robbers,  whores.  Three  times  [REDACTED]'s  pocketbook  had  been  stolen.  When  she  reported  it  to  the  police,  they  just  laughed.  Every  time  one  crossed  the  street,  one  risked  one's  life.  [REDACTED]  took  a  step  and  stopped.  Someone  had  advised  her  to  use  a  cane,  but  she  was  far  from  considering  her-  self  an  old  woman  or  a  cripple.  Every  few  weeks  she  painted  her  nails  red.  At  times,  when  the  rheumatism  left  her  in  peace,  she  took  clothes  she  used  to  wear  from  the  closets,  tried  them  on,  and  studied  herself  in  the  mirror.  Opening  the  door  of  the  supermar-  ket  was  impossible.  She  had  to  wait  till  someone  held  it  for  her.  The  super-  market  itself  was  a  place  that  only  the  Devil  could  have  invented.  The  lamps  burned  with  a  glaring  light.  People  pushing  wagons  were  likely  to  knock  down  anyone  in  their  path.  The  shelves  were  either  too  high  or  too  low.  The  noise  was  deafening,  and  the  contrast  between  the  heat  outside  and  the  freezing  temper-  ature  inside!  It  was  a  miracle  that  she  didn't  get  pneumonia.  More  than  anything  else,  Bessic  was  tortured  by  indecision.  She  picked  up  each  item  with  a  trembling  hand  and  read  the  label.  This  was  not  the  greed  of  youth  but  the  uncertainty  of  age.  According  to  [REDACTED]'s  figuring,  today's  shopping  should  not  have  taken  longer  than  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  but  two  hours  passed  and  [REDACTED]  was  still  not  finished.  When  she  finally  brought  the  wagon  to  the  cashier,  it  occurred  to  her  that  she  had  for-  gotten  the  box  of  oatmeal.  She  went  back  and  a  woman  took  her  place  in  line.  Later,  when  she  paid,  there  was  new  trouble.  [REDACTED]  had  put  the  bill  in  the  right  side  of  her  bag,  but  it  was  not  there.  After  long  rummaging,  she  found  it  in  a  small  change  purse  on  the     " b"66  opposite  side.  Yes,  who  could  believe  that  such  things  were  possible?  If  she  told  someone,  he  would  think  she  was  ready  forthe  madhouse.  HEN  [REDACTED]  went  into  the  supermar-  ket,  the  day  was  still  bright;  now  it  was  draw-  ing  to  a  close.  The  sun,  yellow  and  golden,  was  sinking  toward  the  Hud-  son,  to  the  hazy  hills  of  New  Jersey.  The  build-  ings  on  [REDACTED]  radi-  ated  the  heat  they  had  absorbed.  From  under  gratings  where  the  sub-  way  trains  rumbled,  evil-  smelling  fumes  arose.  [REDACTED]  held  the  heavy  bag  of  food  in  one  hand,  and  in  the  other  she  grasped  her  pocketbook  tightly.  Never  had  [REDACTED]  seemed  to  her  so  wild,  so  dirty.  It  stank  of  softened  asphalt,  gasoline,  rotten  fruit,  the  excrement  of  dogs.  On  the  sidewalk,  among  torn  newspapers  and  the  butts  of  cigarettes,  pigeons  hopped  about.  It  was  difficult  to  understand  how  these  creatures  avoided  being  stepped  on  in  the  crush  of  passersby.  From  the  blazing  sky  a  golden  dust  was  falling.  Before  a  storefront  hung  with  artificial  grass,  men  in  sweated  shirts  poured  papaya  juice  and  pineapple  juice  into  themselves  with  haste,  as  if  trying  to  extinguish  a  fire  that  consumed  their  insides.  Above  their  heads  hung  coconuts  carved  in  the  shapes  of  Indians.  On  a  side  street,  black  and  white  children  had  opened  a  hydrant  and  were  splashing  naked  in  the  gutter.  In  the  midst  of  that  heat  wave,  a  truck  with  microphones  drove  around  blaring  out  shrill  songs  and  deafening  blasts  about  a  candidate  for  political  office.  From  the  rear  of  the  truck,  a  girl  with  hairthat  stood  up  like  wires  threw  out  leaflets.  It  was  all  beyond  [REDACTED]'s  strength-  crossing  the  street,  waiting  for  the  ele-  vator,  and  then  getting  out  on  the  fifth  floor  before  the  door  slammed.  [REDACTED]  put  the  groceries  down  at  the  threshold  and  searched  for  her  keys.  She  used  her  nail  file  to  dig  the  putty  out  of  the  keyhole.  She  put  in  the  key  and  turned  it.  But  woe,  the  key  broke.  Only  the  handle  remained  in  her  hand.  [REDACTED]  fully  grasped  thecatastrophe.  The  other  people  in  the  building  had  copies  of  their  keys  hanging  in  the  superintendent's  apartment,  but  she  trusted  no  one-some  time  ago,  she  had  ordered  a  new  combination  lock,  & which  she  was  sure  no  master  key  couldopen.  She  had  aduplicate  key  somewhere  in  a  drawer,  but  with  her  she  carried  only  this  one.  &quot;Well,  this  is  the  end,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said  aloud.  There  was  nobody  to  turn  to  for  help.  The  neighbors  were  her  blood  enemies.  The  super  only  waited  for  her  downfall  [REDACTED]'s  throat  was  so  constricted  that  she  could  not  even  cry.  She  looked  around,  expecting  to  see  the  fiend  who  had  delivered  this  latest  blow.  [REDACTED]  had  long  since  made  peace  with  death,  but  todie  on  the  steps  or  in  the  streets  was  too  harsh.  And  who  knows  how  long  such  agony  could  last?  She  began  to  ponder.  Was  there  still  open  somewhere  a  store  where  they  fitted  keys?  Even  if  there  were,  what  could  the  locksmith  copy  from?  He  would  have  to  come  up  here  with  his  tools.  For  that,  one  needed  a  mechanic  associated  with  the  firm  which  produced  these  special  locks.  If  at  least  she  had  money  with  her.  But  she  never  carried  more  than  she  needed  to  spend.  The  cashier  in  the  super-  market  had  given  her  back  only  some  twenty-odd  cents.  &quot;O  dear  Momma,  I  don't  want  to  live  anymore!&quot;  [REDACTED]  spoke  Yiddish,  amazed  that  she  sud-  denly  reverted  to  that  half-forgotten  tongue.  After  many  hesitations,  [REDACTED]  de-  cided  to  go  back  down  to  the  street.  Perhaps  a  hardware  store  or  one  of  those  tiny  shops  that  specialize  in  keys  was  still  open.  She  remembered  that  there  used  to  be  such  a  key  stand  in  the  neighborhood.  After  all,  other  peo-  ple's  keys  must  get  broken.  But  what  should  she  do  with  the  food?  It  was  too  heavy  to  carry  with  her.  There  DECEMBER  6,  1969  was  no  choice.  She  would  --&gt;  \\  have  to  leave  the  bag  at  &lt;-  C  u  the  door.  &quot;They  steal  any-  y  how,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said  to  her-  C&amp;  self.  Who  knows,  perhaps  the  neighbors  intention-  ally  manipulated  her  lock  so  that  she  would  not  be  able  to  enter  the  apartment  while  they  robbed  her  or  vandalized  her  belongings.  Before  [REDACTED]  went  down  to  the  street,  she  put  her  ear  to  the  door.  She  heard  nothing  except  a  murmur  that  never  stopped,  the  cause  and  ori-  gin  of  which  [REDACTED]  could  not  figure  out.  Sometimes  it  ticked  like  a  clock;  other  times  it  buzzed,  or  groaned-an  entity  im-  prisoned  in  the  walls  or  the  water  pipes.  In  her  mind  [REDACTED]  said  goodbye  to  the  food,  which  should  have  been  in  the  refriger-  ator,  not  standing  here  in  the  heat.  The  butter  would  melt,  the  milk  would  turn  sour.  &quot;It's  a  punishment!  I  am  cursed,  cursed,&quot;  [REDACTED]  muttered.  A  neighbor  was  about  to  go  down  in  the  elevator  and  [REDACTED]  signalled  to  him  to  hold  the  door  for  her.  Perhaps  he  was  one  of  the  thieves.  He  might  try  to  hold  her  up,  assault  her.  The  elevator  went  down  and  the  man  opened  the  door  for  her.  She  wanted  to  thank  him,  but  re-  mained  silent.  Why  thank  her  enemies?  These  were  all  sly  tricks.  When  [REDACTED]  stepped  out  into  the  street,  night  had  fallen.  The  gutter  was  flooded  with  water.  The  street  lamps  were  reflected  in  the  black  pool  as  in  a  lake.  Again  there  was  a  fire  in  the  neighborhood.  She  heard  the  wailing  of  a  siren,  the  clang  of  fire  engines.  Her  shoes  were  wet.  She  came  out  on  [REDACTED],  and  the  heat  slapped  her  like  a  sheet  of  tin.  She  had  difficulty  seeing  in  daytime;  at  night  she  was  almost  blind.  There  was  light  in  the  stores,  but  what  they  displayed  [REDACTED]  could  not  make  out.  Passersby  bumped  intoher,  and  [REDACTED]  regretted  that  she  didn't  have  a  cane.  Nevertheless,  she  began  to  walk  along,  close  to  the  windows.  She  passed  a  drugstore,  a  bakery,  a  shop  of  rugs,  a  funeral  parlor,  but  nowhere  was  there  a  sign  of  a  hardware  store.  [REDACTED]  continued  on  her  way.  Her  strength  was  ebbing,  but  she  was  determined  not  to  give  up.  What  should  a  person  do  when  her  key  has  broken  off-die?  Perhaps  apply  to  the  police.  There  might  be  some  institution  that  took  care  of  such  cases.  But  where?  There  must  have  been  an  accident.  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  The  sidewalk  was  crowded  with  spec-  tators.  Police  cars  and  an  ambulance  blocked  the  street.  Someone  sprayed  the  asphalt  with  a  hose,  probably  cleaning  away  theblood.  It  occurred  to  Bessic  that  the  eyes  of  the  onlookers  gleamed  with  an  uncanny  satisfaction.  They  enjoy  other  people's  misfortunes,  she  thought.  It  is  their  only  comfort  in  this  miserable  city.  No,  she  wouldn't  find  anybody  to  help  her.  She  had  come  to  a  church.  A  few  steps  led  to  the  closed  door,  which  was  protected  by  an  overhang  and  dark-  ened  byshadows.  [REDACTED]  was  barely  able  to  sit  down.  Her  knees  wobbled.  Her  shoes  hadbegun  to  pinch  in  the  toes  and  above  the  heels.  A  bone  in  her  cor-  set  broke  and  cut  into  her  flesh.  &quot;Well,  all  the  Powers  of  Evil  are  upon  me  to-  night.&quot;  Hunger  mixed  with  nausea  gnawed  at  her.  An  acid  fluid  came  up  to  her  mouth.  &quot;Father  in  Heaven,  it's  my  end.&quot;  She  remembered  the  Yiddish  proverb  &quot;If  one  lives  without  a  reckon-  ing,  one  dies  without  confession.&quot;  She  had  even  neglected  to  write  her  will.  [REDACTED]  must  have  dozed  off,  because  when  she  opened  her  eyes  there  was  a  late-night  stillness,  the  street  half  empty  and  darkened.  Store  windows  were  no  longer  lit.  The  heat  had  evaporated  and  she  felt  chilly  under  her  dress.  For  a  moment  she  thought  that  her  pocketbook  had  been  stolen,  but  it  lay  on  a  step  below  her,  where  it  had  probably  slipped.  [REDACTED]  tried  to  stretch  out  her  hand  for  it;  her  arm  was  numb.  Her  head,  which  rested  against  the  wall,  felt  as  heavy  as  a  stone.  Her  legs  had  become  wooden.  Her  ears  seemed  to  be  filled  with  water.  She  lifted  one  of  her  eyelids  and  saw  the  moon.  It  hovered  low  in  the  sky  over  a  flat  roof,  and  near  it  twinkled  a  greenish  star.  [REDACTED]  gaped.  She  had  almost  forgotten  that  there  was  a  sky,  a  moon,  stars.  Years  had  passed  and  she  never  looked  up-always  down.  Her  windows  were  hung  with  draperies  so  that  the  spies  across  the  street  could  not  see  her.  Well,  if  there  was  a  sky,  perhaps  there  was  also  a  God,  angels,  Paradise.  Where  else  did  the  souls  of  her  parents  rest?  And  where  was  Sam  now?  She,  [REDACTED],  had  abandoned  all  her  duties.  She  never  visited  Sam's  grave  in  the  cemetery.  She  didn't  even  light  a  candle  on  the  anniversary  of  his  death.  She  was  so  steeped  in  wrangling  with  the  lower  powers  that  she  did  not  re-  member  the  higher  ones.  For  the  first  time  in  years,  [REDACTED]  felt  the  need  to  recite  a  prayer.  The  Almighty  would  have  mercy  on  her  even  though  shedid  not  deserve  it.  Father  and  Mother  might  intercede  for  her  on  high.  Some  Hebrew  words  hung  on  the  tip  of  her  tongue,  but  she  could  not  recall  them.  Then  she  remem-  bered.  &quot;Hear,  O  Israel.&quot;  But  what  followed?  &quot;God  forgive  me,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said.  &quot;I  deserve  everything  that  falls  on  me.&quot;  It  became  even  quieter  and  cooler.  Traffic  lights  changed  from  red  to  green,  but  a  car  rarely  passed.  From  somewhere  a  Negro  appeared.  He  staggered.  He  stopped  not  far  from  [REDACTED]  and  turned  his  eyes  to  her.  Then  he  walked  on.  [REDACTED]  knew  that  her  bag  was  full  of  important  documents,  but  for  the  first  time  she  did  not  care  about  her  property.  Sam  had  left  a  fortune;  it  all  had  gone  for  naught.  She  continued  to  save  for  her  old  age  as  if  she  were  still  young.  &quot;How  old  am  I?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked  herself.  &quot;What  have  I  accomplished  in  all  these  years?  Why  didn't  I  go  somewhere,  enjoy  my  money,  help  somebody?&quot;  Something  in  her  laughed.  &quot;I  was  possessed,  completely  not  myself.  How  else  can  it  be  explained?&quot;  [REDACTED]  was  astounded.  She  felt  as  if  she  had  awakened  from  a  long  sleep.  The  broken  key  hadopened  a  door  in  her  brain  that  had  shut  when  Sam  died.  The  moon  had  shifted  to  the  other  side  of  the  roof-unusually  large,  red,  its  face  obliterated.  It  was  almost  cold  now.  [REDACTED]  shivered.  She  realized  that  she  could  easily  get  pneumonia,  but  the     67  fear  of  death  was  gone,  along  with  her  fear  of  being  homeless.  Fresh  breezes  drifted  from  the  Hudson  River.  New  stars  appeared  in  the  sky.  A  black  cat  approached  from  the  other  side  of  the  street.  For  a  while,  it  stood  on  the  edge  ofthe  sidewalk  and  its  green  eyes  looked  straight  at  [REDACTED].  Then  slowly  and  cautiously  it  drew  near.  For  years  [REDACTED]  had  hated  all  animals-dogs,  cats,  pigeons,  even  sparrows.  They  car-  ried  sicknesses.  They  made  everything  filthy.  Bessic  believed  that  there  was  a  demon  in  every  cat.  She  especially  dreaded  an  encounter  with  a  black  cat,  which  was  always  an  omen  of  evil.  But  now  [REDACTED]  felt  love  for  this  creature  that  had  no  home,  no  possessions,  no  doors  or  keys,  and  lived  on  God's  bounty.  Before  thecat  neared  Bessic,  it  smelled  her  bag.  Then  it  began  to  rub  its  back  on  her  leg,  lifting  up  its  tail  and  meowing.  The  poor  thing  is  hungry.  I  wish  I  could  give  her  something.  How  canone  hate  a  creature  like  this,  [REDACTED]  wondered.  O  Mother  of  mine,  I  was  bewitched,  be-  witched.  Pll  begin  a  new  life.  A  treacherous  thought  ran  through  her  mind:  perhaps  remarry?  The  night  did  not  pass  without  ad-  venture.  Once,  [REDACTED]  saw  a  white  but-  terfly  in  the  air.  It  hovered  for  a  while  over  a  parked  car  and  then  took  off.  [REDACTED]  knew  it  was  a  soul  of  a  new-  born  baby,  since  real  butterflies  do  not  fly  after  dark.  Another  time,  she  wak-  ened  to  see  a  ball  of  fire,  a  kind  of  lit-up  soap  bubble,  soar  from  one  roof  to  another  and  sink  behind  it.  She  was  aware  that  what  she  saw  was  the  spirit  of  someone  who  had  just  died.  BESSIE  had  fallen  asleep.  She  woke  up  with  a  start.  It  was  daybreak.  From  the  side  of  Cen-  tral  Park  the  sun  rose.  [REDACTED]  could  not  see  it  from  here,  but  on  [REDACTED]  the  sky  became  pink  and  reddish.  On  the  building  to  the  left,  flames  kindled  in  the  windows;  the  panes  ran  and  blinked  like  the  portholes  ofa  ship.  A  pigeon  landed  nearby.  It  hopped  on  its  little  red  feet  and  pecked  into  something  that  might  have  been  a  dirty  piece  of  stale  bread  or  dried  raud.  [REDACTED]  was  baffled.  How  do  these  birds  live?  Where  do  they  sleep  at  night?  And  how  can  they  survive  the  rains,  the  cold,  the  snow?  I  will  go  home,  [REDACTED]  decided.  People  will  not  leave  me  in  the  streets.  Getting  up  was  a  torment.  Her  body  seemed  glued  to  the     " b"68  step  on  which  she  sat.  Her  back  ached  and  her  legs  tingled.  Nevertheless,  she  began  to  walk  slowly  toward  home.  She  inhaled  the  moist  morning  air.  It  smelled  of  grass  and  coffee.  She  was  no  longer  alone.  From  the  side  streets  men  and  women  emerged.  They  were  go-  ing  to  work.  They  bought  newspapers  at  the  stand  and  went  down  into  the  subway.  They  were  silent  and  strange-  ly  peaceful,  as  if  they,  too,  had  gone  through  a  night  of  soul-searching  and  come  out  of  it  cleansed.  When  do  they  get  up  if  they  are  already  on  their  way  to  work  now,  [REDACTED]  marvelled.  No,  not  all  in  this  neighborhood  were  gang-  sters  and  murderers.  One  young  man  even  nodded  good  morning  to  [REDACTED].  She  tried  to  smile  at  him,  realizing  she  had  forgotten  that  feminine  gesture  she  knew  so  well  in  her  youth;  it  was  al-  most  the  first  lesson  her  mother  had  taught  her.  She  reached  her  building,  and  out-  side  stood  the  Irish  super,  her  deadly  enemy.  He  was  talking  to  the  garbage  collectors.  He  was  a  giant  of  a  man,  with  a  short  nose,  a  long  upper  lip,  sunken  cheeks,  and  a  pointed  chin.  His  yellow  hair  covered  a  bald  spot.  He  gave  [REDACTED]  a  startled  look.  &quot;What's  the  matter,  Grandma?&quot;  Stuttering,  [REDACTED]  told  him  what  had  happened  to  her.  She  showed  him  the  $17  |  r  f  i  0     handle  of  the  key  she  had  clutched  in  her  hand  all  night.  &quot;Mother  of  God!&quot;  he  called  out.  &quot;What  shall  I  do?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked.  &quot;I  will  openyour  door.&quot;  &quot;But  you  don't  have  a  passkey.&quot;  &quot;We  have  to  be  able  to  open  all  doors  in  case  of  fire.&quot;  The  super  disappeared  into  his  own  apartment  for  a  few  minutes,  then  he  came  out  with  some  tools  and  a  bunch  of  keys  on  a  large  ring.  He  went  up  in  the  elevator  with  [REDACTED].  The  bag  of  food  still  stood  on  the  threshold,  but  it  looked  depleted.  The  super  busied  him-  self  at  the  lock.  He  asked,  &quot;What  are  these  cards?&quot;  [REDACTED]  did  not  answer.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  come  to  me  and  tell  me  what  happened?  To  be  roam-  ing  around  all  night  at  your  age-my  God!&quot;  As  he  poked  with  his  tools,  a  door  opened  and  a  little  woman  in  a  housecoat  and  slippers,  her  hair  bleached  and  done  up  in  curlers,  came  out.  She  said,  &quot;What  happened  to  you?  Everytime  I  opened  the  door,  I  saw  this  bag.  I  took  out  your  butter  and  milk  and  put  them  in  my  refrigerator.&quot;  [REDACTED]  could  barely  restrain  her  tears.  &quot;(O)  my  good  people,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  didn't  know  that  .  ..&quot;  The  super  pulled  out  the  other  half  of  [REDACTED]'s  key,  He  worked  a  little  long-    er.  He  turned  a  key  and  the  door  opened.  The  cards  fell  down.  He  en-  tered  the  hallway  with  [REDACTED]  and  she  sensed  the  musty  odor  of  an  apartment  that  has  not  been  lived  in  for  a  long  time.  The  super  said,  &quot;Next  time,  if  something  like  this  happens  call  me.  That's  what  I'm  here  for.&quot;  [REDACTED]  wanted  to  give  him  a  tip,  but  her  hands  were  too  weak  to  open  her  bag.  The  neighbor  woman  brought  in  the  milk  and  butter.  [REDACTED]  went  into  her  bedroom  and  lay  down  on  the  bed.  There  was  a  pressure  on  her  breast  and  she  felt  like  vomiting.  Something  heavy  vibrated  up  from  her  feet  to  her  chest.  [REDACTED]  listened  to  it  without  alarm,  only  curious  about  the  whims  of  the  body;  the  super  and  the  neighbor  talked,  and  [REDACTED]  could  not  make  out  what  they  were  saying.  The  same  thing  had  happened  to  herover  thirty  years  ago  when  she  had  been  given  anesthesia  in  the  hospital  before  an  op-  eration-the  doctor  and  the  nurse  were  talking  but  their  voices  seemed  to  come  from  far  away  and  in  a  strange  lan-  guage.  Soon  there  was  silence,  and  Sam  appeared.  It  was  neither  day  nor  night-a  strange  twilight.  In  her  dream,  [REDACTED]  knew  that  Sam  was  dead  but  that  in  some  clandestine  way  he  had  managed  to  get  away  from  the  grave  and  visit  her.  He  was  feeble  and  embarrassed.  He  could  not  speak.  They  wandered  through  a  space  without  a  sky,  without  earth,  a  tunnel  full  of  debris-the  wreckage  ofa  nameless  structure-a  corridor  dark  and  wind-  ing,  yet  somehow  familiar.  They  came  to  a  region  where  two  mountains  met,  and  the  passage  between  shone  like  sunset  or  sunrise.  They  stood  there  hesitating  and  even  a  little  ashamed.  It  was  like  that  night  of  their  hon-  eymoon  when  they  went  to  Ellenville  in  the  Catskills  andwere  let  by  the  hotel  owner  into  their  bridal  suite.  She  heard  the  same  words  he  had  said  to  them  then,  in  the  same  voice  and  into-  nation:  &quot;You  don't  need  no  key  here.  Just  enter-and  mazel  tov.&quot;  "