50  AN  OLD  YOMAN'S  STORY  \xe2\x80\x98  a  J  ELL,  weather  is  a  little  cooler  here  today,  as  we  had  a  nice  rain  and  electric  storm  last  night.  We  needed  the  rain-it's  been  90  and  91  the  past  week.  Said  'd  write  my  life  story.  Well,  I  was  born  in  Medicine  Lodge,  [REDACTED],  on  April  the  15th,  1886.  My  given  name  Myrtle  Mae  High.  Was  raised  on  farm  at  Cicero,  [REDACTED],  and  was  one  of  family  of  eight  children-five  boys  and  three  girls.  Cicero  was  very  small.  The  Santa  Fe  tracks  ran  through,  it  had  thedepot,  post  office,  mill,  the  grocery  store,  and  about  five  houses.  It  was  just  a  place  between  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED]  Plaine,  [REDACTED].  We  had  a  country  school  about  a  half  mile  from  our  farm.  I  never  attended  any  other  school.  Went  only  through  the  eighth  grade,  though  my  brothers  attended  high  school  in  [REDACTED].  When  I  was  grow-  ing  up,  I  never  heard  of  movie  shows,  ra-  dios,  or  TV.  Our  only  source  of  entertainment  was  a  box  supper  at  the  school  house  or  a  spell-  ing  bee.  We  had  a  ker-  osene  lamp  to  go  out  to  the  toilet  at  night.  We  young  people  went  to  dances,  usually  at  one  of  our  friends'  houses,  as  we  young  people  ran  in  a  group,  and  we  seemed  to  have  fun.  Sometimes  in  the  win-  ter  we  took  sleigh  rides  in  the  country.  We  were  raised  very  strict  and  my  father  wouldn't  let  us  girls  stand  out  on  the  porch  after  dark  and  talkto  boy  friends,  or  even  stand  at  the  front  gate  when  we  came  home  from  a  date.  I  only  went  with  two  other  boys  besides  my  husband.  My  hus-  band  and  I  knew  each  other  since  I  was  eight  years  old.  He  lived  on  a  farm  threemiles  from  our  place  and  it  was  rather  funny  how  we  started  dating.  I  was  going  with  his  cousin,  Jesse,  and  Jesse  and  I  had  a  date  for  a  Sunday  night  to  go  to  church,  but  he  never  came.  I  sure  felt  bad  over  that,  so  I  wrote  him  a  letter.  But  he  never  answered.  Jesse  and  I  were  supposed  to  be  going  to  a  dance  the  next  Friday  night,  at  the  farm  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Smart.  Harvey  Smart  was  the  boy  I  married.  I  thought  I'd  have  tostay  home,  but  my  brother  and  his  girl  friend  took  me  with  them.  At  the  dance,  when  I  was  dancing  with  Harvey  Smart,  he  asked  me  if  I  had  a  date  for  that  Sunday  night,  and  I  told  him  no.  He  asked  me  to  go  to  church  with  him  and  I  said  yes.  I  thought  of  Jesse,  and  was  pretty  blue.  I  wondered  how  he  could  have  treated  me'  that  way.  The  second  time  we  went  out,  Harvey  Smart  asked  me  to  marry  him.  Harvey  was  living  on  an  eight-acre  farm  of  his  own  and  he  was  a  bachelor.  He  had  three  hired  help  and  was  look-  ing  for  a  cook.  I  told  him  that  was  the     reason  he  proposed  to  me.  He  then  kissed  me  and  I  slapped  him,  as  I  wasn't  used  to  that.  And  I  told  him  I  couldn't  answer  until  the  next  Sun-  day  night.  I  thought  about  it  all  week,  asI  was  only  nineteen,  and  he  was  four  years  older.  I  finally  told  my  mother  about  Harvey  and  askedher  if  I  could,  and  she  said  if  you  think  you  love  him.  She  said  it  was  O.K.  with  her.  And  I  thought  I  loved  him,  and  I  told  Harvey  yes.  HAT  was  the  last  of  January,  1906,  and  we  were  married  in  my  folks'  home  on  Sunday,  July  the  15th,  1906,  at  4  P.M.  Well,  we  had  anice  wedding,  but  it  started  raining  that  day  around  9  a.M.  and  it  real-  ly  rained  all  day  and  all  night.  The  morning  of  the  day  we  were  married,  Harvey's  brother,  Jewell,  hitched  up  a  team  of  horses  to  an  old-fashion  sur-  rey  and  drove  to  [REDACTED]  Plaine,  nine  miles  away  in  the  rain,  to  get  the  preacher  and  then  took  him  home  afterwards  in  the  dark.  We  spent  the  first  night  at  home  in  my  room,  and  then  the  next  day  was  a  nice  sunshiny  day  and  we  drove  over  to  Harvey's  folks  for  our  wedding  dinner,  and  the  third  day  we  moved  into  the  four-room  house  two  miles  away  where  Har-  vey  lived,  and  we  sure  were  happy.  Harvey  had  his  wheat  cut  and  thrashing  all  done  and  he  was  ready  tostart  fall  plowing.  We  lived  there  for  two  years,  and  then  we  soldthe  farm  and  moved  into  [REDACTED]  Plaine,  where  Harvey  took  up  house  painting.  Then  in  1916  we  moved  here  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  where  I  live  still.  Well,  our  first  baby,  a  boy,  was  born  on  De-  cember  the  7th,  1908,  and  he  weighed  ten  and  three-quarters  pounds.  We  named  him  Ira  Lee  Smart,  but  we  al-  ways  called  him  Lee.  Lee  was  born  during  an  election  year,  and  my  two  daughters  were  also  born  during  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  election  years.  Geneva  Irene  was  born  Sep-  tember  the  28th,  1912,  and  she  weighed  nine  and  a  half  pounds.  Velda  Alveda  was  born  September  the  26th,  1916,  and  she  weighed  nine  pounds.  Geneva  Irene  died  November  the  3rd,  1913,  at  Boise,  [REDACTED],  where  we  were  visiting  for  a  little  time.  One  year,  one  month,  and  six  days  old.  Velda  Alveda  died  June  the  25th,  1943,  at  Mercy  Hospital  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  She  had  double  pneumonia.  She  died  at  the  age  of  twenty-six  years,  and  left  a  baby  of  thirteen  months.  Seemed  so  sad  to  go  so  young,  and  so  much  to  live  for.  When  Velda  died,  I  could  hardly  take  my  grief.  That  was  a  lot  of  sorrow  for  me  in  those  days,  as  two  years  be-  fore,  in  1941,  my  hus-  band  had  dropped  dead  with  a  heart  attack.  It  happened  about  five  minutes  after  we  came  into  the  house  on  a  Sunday  evening  from  church.  I  was  all  alone  when  Harvey  died,  and  a  flower  shop  about  a  half  block  from  our  house  was  all  lit  up.  Before,  I  was  wondering  what  they  were  all  lit  up  for,  and  Harvey  he'd  said  it  was  probably  because  they  were  making  flowers  for  a  funeral.  So  a  neighbor  came  over  to  stay  with  Harvey,  as  he  had  fallen  on  the  floor  and  we  had  no  phone,  and  I  went  down  the  street  to  use  the  flower  shop's  phone.  The  man  in  the  flower  shop  said,  &quot;Who  is  your  doctor?&quot;  and  he  said  for  me  to  go  back  home  and  he  would  call  the  doctor,  but  he  said  Harvey  must  be  dead.  When  the  flower  man  came  to  my  house,  he  had  the  doctor  and  an  undertaker  friend  with  him,  and  I  didn't  think  he  need-  ed  to  do  this  until  he  came  first  just  with  the  doctor.  As  it  happened,  the  undertaker  would  not  touch  Harvey  till  I  got  his  Social  Security  card.  As  Harvey  wasn't  working,  he  didn't  have  it  in  his  billfold,  so  I  had  to  look  for  it,  and  this  took  me  about  a  half  an  hour  and  I  was  so  nervous  that  when  I  found  it  I  just  passed  it  into  the  undertaker's  hand  without  saying  any-  thing.  So  the  undertaker  and  the  flower  man  picked  up  Harvey's  body  and  put  it  in  a  black  bag  and  carried  it  out.  Velda's  husband  ran  a  confectionery  store  down  by  the  [REDACTED]  Theater,  and  after  the  undertaker  was  gone  I  went  down  there.  My  son,  Lee,  was  living  at  Olin,  [REDACTED],  and  I  had  quite  a  time  getting  in  touch  with  him.  Well,  that  was  February  the  22nd,  1941,  and  Velda  died  two  years  later,  and  the  day  Velda  died  Lee  was  at  Anamosa,  [REDACTED],  getting  in  the  Army.  He  left  for  the  Army  three  weeks  later,  and  I'm  tell-  ing  you  that  with  all  the  worry  and  sorrow  my  hair  turned  white.  Lee  was  gone  for  three  and  a  half  years,  but  he  was  lucky  and  his  life  was  spared.  He  returned  to  his  wife,  who  he  had  married  on  June  the  25th,  1935-the  same  day  that  Velda  died  eight  years  later-and  he  was  the  only  child  I  had  left.  Lee  was  married  for  thirty-four  years  this  summer,  but  no  children.  Still,  I  have  one  dear  grand-  child,  Velda's  son,  George,  and  he  was  twenty-seven  on  May  the  31st,  1969,  and  he  is  the  only  grandchild  I  have  and  the  one  I  raised  after  his  mother  died.  George  is  married,  but  no  chil-  dren,  and  they  are  married  four  years.  FORGOT  to  mention,  when  I  was  a  girl  on  the  farm  at  Cicero  we  raised  chickens,  ducks,  and  geese.     In  the  summer  there  were  so  many  cyclones.  The  farmers'  telephones  had  eight  to  ten  families  on  one  line,  and  all  the  houses  had  kerosene  lamps.  When  Harvey  and  I  moved  to  town  offthe  farm,  electric  lights  soon  came  and  everybody  was  so  happy.  Nowadays,  I  baby-sit  five  days  a  week,  and  I  got  TV.  I'm  a  TV  fan  and  I  sure  enjoy  the  stories.  Cele-  brated  my  sixty-third  wedding  anni-  versary  last  July  the  15th,  and  not  many  make  it  that  long,  but  you  see  I've  been  alone  twenty-eight  years.  Still,  I  have  the  one  son,  Lee,  and  he  is  over  sixty  now  and  has  been  retired  from  the  Post  Office  four  years.  They  live  a  block  from  me,Leeand  his  wife,  and  I  live  alone.  Well,  itis  P.M.  now  and  has  rained  again  most  all  a.m.  Another  flood  at  Waterloo,  as  a  special  news  report  came  over  TV  several  times  today  and  said  probably  some  people  would  have  to  be  moving  out  of  their  homes.  Sure  is  tough.  I'm  glad  I  don't  live  there.  This  is  not  a  very  good  story  of  my  life,  but  itis  all  true,  and  my  family  have  all  passed  on  except  my  son  and  he  is  dear  and  precious  to  me.  I  don't  know  what  I  would  do  without  him  and  his  wife. "