 THE  REMEMBE  RI  NG  MACHINES  OF  TOMORROW  HE  human  memory  is  a  won-  derful  development  but  its  falli-  bility  is  infinite.  How  can  it  be  left  to  men?  It  has  forgotten  even  its  own  story-the  whole  of  evolution.  It  does  not  recall  why  the  spirit  of  man  walks  with  a  limp.  It  can  no  longer  say  why,  through  a  landscape  of  peace,  fatness,  and  fragrance-his  for  the  taking-of  sumptuous  birthplaces  with  meals  already  set,  fires  already  lit,  wel-  comes  prepared  for  no  one  but  him,  he  forces  his  bitter  mouth  and  his  naked  hands  farther  and  farther  into  his  hunger,  his  cold,  his  namelessness,  his  desolation.  What  triumph  will  he  rec-  ognize,  what  wind  will  he  acknowl-  edge,  what  sky  will  he  warm  for  long?  Everywhere,  he  dreams  of  a  creator  who  remembers,  and  he  continues  the  search  for  Him,  hoping  that  in  the  end  what  he  will  find  will  be  himself.  But  whenever  he  moves  he  forgets  some-  thing.  Whatever  headds  to  himself  he  adds  at  the  same  time  to  the  void  which  gnaws  at  his  organs-all  of  them.  It  is  this  gnawing,  and  no  hun-  gerhe  shares  with  the  rest  of  the  crea-  tures,  that  drives  him  from  them.  He  lis-  tens  to  the  gnawing  as  though  it  were  a  song,  and  goes  on,  forgetting  even  that.  How  could  things  be  leftin  such  hazard?  When  he  has  finished  forget-  ting  the  past  he  will  have  no  choice  but  to  start  on  the  future.  He  has  started  already.  No,  it  cannot  go  on.  Fortunately  he  still  has  his  thumb,  the  inventor,  and  even  before  the  prob-  lem  has  been  clearly  stated  (oh,  long  before  that)  he  has  contrived  the  first  steps  toward  its  solution.  The  distance  from  the  first  notches  bruised  into  bark,  which  were  the  ancestors  of  num-  bers,  to  the  air-conditioned  archives  of  the  age  of  history  represented  only  a  few  strides  in  his  ignorant  progress,  a  day  in  his  forgetting.  But  once  there,  he  noted  with  a  certain  shame  that  everything  seemed  to  have  left  him,  to  hide  in  the  intricate  halls,  where  he  could  not  again  feel  that  it  was  really  his,  though  the  halls  had  been  designed  by  minds  like  his  own.  His  own  story  had  now  for-  gotten  him.  No,  it  could  not  be  left  at  that  either.  Faced  before  with  crises,  he  had  developed  his  other  thumb,  named  (by  him)  Sacrifice.  At  each  move-  ment  of  utter  risk  he  had  held  up  this  shell-faced  totem  and  offered  part  of  himself  in  exchange  for-  often  that  has  been  forgotten.  What  was  given  up  was  presum-  ably  given  up  forever,  but  not  all  at  once.  The  payment  might  be  spread  over  a  long  time.  He  gave  up  his  legs  forthe  wheel.  He  gave  up  the  strength  of  his  arms  for  the  lever.  He  gave  up  power  after  power  of  his  physical  form.  And  now  at  last,  as  more  and  more  was  forgotten,  he  began  to  relinquish  his  memory  so  that  something  would  be  remembered.  Since  the  great  primitive  repositories  had  been  impersonal,  and  what  he  took  to  be  their  codified  memories  seemed  to  have  less  and  less  to  do  with  what  he  still  remembered  as  himself,  a  new  link  was  needed.  HE  rest  of  this  does  not  allow  of  the  past  tense.  The  first  of  the  remembering  ma-  chines  is  immense,  immobile,  no  one's.  It  learns,  that  is  true,  But  its  learning  is  based  on  information  fed  into  it  by  sophisticated  procedures,  consciously,  voluntarily.  It  is  constructed  of  frag-  ments.  Even  though  it  can  record  any-  thing  about  us  that  we  can  conceive  of  having  recorded,  it  is  still  in  the  main  a  recorder  rather  than  a  memory.  But  its  progeny  is  approaching  us.  The  machines  will  become,  in  time,  more  compact.  They  will  be-  come  the  pride  of  smaller  and  smaller  institutions,  the  playthings  of  more  and  more  of  the  privileged.  They  will  no  longer  retain  mere  symbols  in  an  ar-  bitrary  system  but  something  which  can  pass,  at  least,  for  whole  experi-  ences-intellectual,  sensual,  visionary.  The  process-not  so  much  of  remem-  bering  as  of  confronting  a  memory  re-  corded  with  mechanical  objectivity     will  be  painful  of  course,  but  that  has  not  prov  ed  an  insuperable  ob  stacle  in  the  past  and  is  not  likely  to  do  so  in  the  future.  It  will  be  const  rue  d  a  s  part  of  the  new  sacrifice.  And  the  develop-     ment  of  the  remembering  machines  will  come  to  be  regarded  as  an  im-  portant  next  step  in  man's  evolution-  ary  progress-something  at  once  in-  evitable  and  worth  anything  it  might  cost.  When  the  machines  become  small  enough  so  that  every  person  can  have-then  must  have-his  own,  the  day  will  be  celebrated  as  the  beginning  of  a  new  age  of  the  Individual.  The  machines  will  retain,  in  flawless  preservation  (though  the  completeness  of  what  they  remember  will  occasion  some  dispute,  for  a  time),  not  only  what  their  owners  experience  but  what  their  owners  think  they  have  experi-  enced,  and  will  sort  out  the  one  from  the  other.  More  and  more,  such  dis-  tinctions  will  be  left  purely  to  the  machines.  And  it  will  be  noticed  that  the  experience  to  be  retained  is  itself  becoming  a  dwindling  fauna,  clung  to  by  sentimentalists,  from  afar,  who  still  lay  aside  their  machines  for  days  at  a  time  and  secretly  yearn  for  the  imagi-  nary  liberties  of  the  ages  of  forgetting.  The  simplification  of  private  ex-  perience  will  be  more  than  made  up  for  by  the  rapid  improvement  of  com-  munication  among  the  machines  them-  selves.  It  will  be  possible  to  share  more  and  more  fully  the  memories  of  oth-  ers.  The  memories  of  the  dead  will  be  available  in  the  new  repositories,  and  many  will  be  privately  owned.  With  the  universal  recognition  of  the  thera-  peutic  benefits  and  the  practical  ad-  vantages  of  a  precise  memory,  chil-  dren  will  be  fitted  with  these  devices  at  birth.  Their  prenatal  experiences  will  have  been  picked  up  and  played  into  their  first  sets.  They  will  be  given  new  ones  as  they  grow  older  and  can  use  them.  The  stages  of  such  use  will  seem  to  reveal  a  new  pattern  in  the  growth  of  the  individual  and  hence  of  the  species,  What  man  is  will  seem  to  be  on  the  point,  once  again,of  har-  monious  emergence.  Then  here  and  there  a  ghost  will  be  seen.  Someone  who  has  lost  his  machine.  The  terror  he  engen-  ders  will  be  discussed,  collated,  contained.  It  will  be  comprehen-  sible,  though  the  ghost  himself  no  longer  is.  The  apparition  will  be  accorded  its  place,  and  will  not  long  trouble  those  who  still  have  their  machines-any  more  than  if,  in  theold  days,  they  had  seen  some  mutilated  creature  begging  in  the  street,  in  the  service  of  his  unimaginable  life.  Little  by  little  it  will  be  remarked,  with  a  math-  ematical  coolness,  that  experience  is  not  only  flowing  into  the  ma-  chines  but  that  they,  to  an  in-  " b"  creasing  extent,  are  becoming  its  source  as  well,  Man's  experience  of  the  mech-  anized  memory  of  his  experience-that  is  what  will  fill  more  and  more  of  his  days  on  earth.  Until,  apart  from  the  simplest  bodily  functions,  his  new  life  will  come  to  revolve  around  nothing  but  the  operation  ofthe  machines  them-  selves.  The  memory  of  old  risks  will  re-  turn,  but  faintly,  vaguely,  and  so  crude-  ly  that  he  cannot  take  them  seriously.  For  perfection  will  seem  to  be  in  sight  at  last.  Attached  to  every  person  like  a  tiny  galaxy  will  be  the  whole  of  his  past-or  what  he  takes  to  be  the  whole  of  his  past.  His  attachment  to  it  will  constitute  the  whole  of  his  present-or  of  what  he  takes  to  be  the  present.  The  neat,  quiet  instrument  will  contain  all  of  each  man's  hope,  his  innocence,  his  garden.  Then  one  by  one,  with  growing  frequency,  men  will  begin  to  lose  their  machines.  "