 TO  ERR  IS  HUMAN,  TO  FORGIVE  SUPINE  \xe2\x80\x98  a  JHENEVER  I  see  hordes  of  women  clawing  their  way  into  a  midseason  clearance  sale,  the  veins  pulsating  in  their  necks  and  their  eyes  protuberant  with  greed,I  always  wonder  why  so  few  novelists,  apart  from  Zola  in  his  scarifying  &quot;Au  Bon-  heur  des  Dames,&quot;  have  chosen  the  de-  partment  store  as  a  theme.  Is  it  because  the  purgatorial  atmosphere  in  these  places  is  better  suited  to  the  imagination  of  a  Hieronymus  Bosch,  capable  of  por-  traying  the  cannibalistic  fury  of  the  cus-  tomers,  the  crucifying  boredom  and  malignancy  of  the  staff?  Anyone  who  has  ever  worked  in  a  department  store,  surely,  must  have  quailed  under  the  hauteur  of  petty  satraps  like  buyers  and  section  managers;  their  medieval  harassment  of  inferiors,  the  constant  espionage,  and  the  penalties  exacted  for  any  infraction  of  the  rules,  reflected  in  the  lickspittle  servility  of  underlings,  are  enough  to  sicken  a  goat.  I  speak  from  intimate  knowledge-at  a  forma-  tive  period  of  my  life  and  for  nearly  six  months,  I  was  a  teen-age  vassal,  the  lowliest,  in  a  department  store.  Only  one  endowed  with  a  Sicilian  capacity  for  vengeance,  as  I  was,  could  have  emerged  from  the  ex-  perience  unscathed.  I  did  so  by  clinging  to  the  same  resolve  that  sus-  tained  Edmond  Dan-  tes-someday,  I  swore,  I  would  repay.  Fifty  years  elapsed  before  I  squared  accounts,  a  few  months  ago,  and  let's  eschew  all  pious  cant  to  the  effect  that  it  turned  to  ashes  in  my  mouth.  Not  on  your  tintype-  it  was  nectar.  Back  in  1899,  a  couple  of  Transylvani-  ans  named  Schwimpf  and  Grosbart,  from  Bistrita,  the  native  heath  of  Count  Dracu-  la,  founded  an  empori-  um  in  [REDACTED]  on  a  shoestring  (which  they  proposed  to  use  as  a  tourniquet)  and  a  proverb  revised  to  read,  &quot;You  can  too  get  blood  out  of  a  stone.&quot;  At  the  end  of  two  decades,  when  I  entered  its  em-  ploy,  the  Beehive  was  a  grim,  six-story  bastion  occupying  a  full  block  on  the  city's  principal  thoroughfare.  Trade  there  on  a  week-  end  was  so  tumultuous  that  the  store  had  to  send  out  a  press  gang  to  shang-  hai  part-time  help,  and  inevitably  the  crimps  reached  my  high  school.  I  hap-  pened  to  be  at  loose  ends,  the  lady  for  whom  I  had  beaten  carpets  atfifteen  cents  an  hour  having  made  improper  advances,  and  when  I  was  offered  a  whole  dollar  for  a  Saturday  job  at  the  Beehive  I  jumped  at  it.  Initially  a  stockroom  boy  in  the  men's  footwear  section,  I  submitted  to  the  usual  pranks  visited  on  a  novice.  The  shoe  salesmen,  then  as  now  a  dis-  mal  lot  of  human  beings,  were  wasp-  waisted  sharpies  akin  to  Ferdie  and  Gus,  the  Hallroom  Boys  in  the  comic  strip  of  that  era.  It  convulsed  them  to  send  me  on  errands  like  fetching  a  pail  of  steam  and  a  left-handed  monkey  wrench,  and  their  guffaws  at  my  naivete  reduced  me  to  jelly.  To  my  overwhelming  relief,  I  was  reprieved  after  a  fortnight  and  dispatched  to  the  rug  department,  where  I  imagined     that  my  proficiency  with  carpets  might  give  me  a  certain  cachet.  Even  an  ele-  phant,  however-one  of  those  trained  to  work  teak  logs  in  the  forests  of  north-  ern  Siam-would  have  recoiled  from  the  task  assigned  me.  I  and  my  co-  worker,  a  derelict  with  a  wet  brain  re-  cruited  from  a  waterfront  flophouse,  were  required  to  tote  giant  rolls  of  Ax-  minster  and  [REDACTED]  to  an  entrepot  two  blocks  distant  and  then  haul  them  back  again.  What  commercial  purpose  this  served-whether  it  aged  or  mellowed  the  rugs  in  some  mysterious  way-we  were  never  told.  Nor  was  our  portion  eased  by  the  floorwalker,  a  bull  of  a  man  like  the  tyrant  Gessler,  who  con-  tinually  denounced  us  as  loafers  and  lashed  us  on  with  imprecations.  After  several  weekends,  fatigue  and  dust  took  their  toll,  and  I  fainted  dead  away  one  morning  in  algebra  class.  The  teacher,  apprehensive  lest  his  own  brand  of  sadism  had  laid  me  low,  investigated.  A  note  went  forth  to  the  personnel  manager  of  the  Beehive,  and  the  next  Saturday  I  was  transferred  to  the  men's  clothing  division  to  fold  boxes.  Irksome  as  my  earlier  posts  had  been,  they  at  least  provided  the  com-  panionship  of  fellow-  mortals;  now  I  was  as  remote  as  a  prisoner  in  the  dungeons  of  the  Cheka.  From  seven-thir-  tyuntil  six,  I  toiled  in  a  windowless  basement  lit  by  a  naked  electric  bulb,  kneading  the  boxes  into  shape  and  passing  therm  upward  through  a  trap-  door  to  the  parcel  desk.  Since  thehalf  hour  allotted  for  lunch  made  it  impractical  to  leave  the  premises,  I  usual-  ly  gulped  a  homemade  sandwich  and  read  one  of  the  Haldeman-Julius  five-cent  blue  books,  preferably  the  diatribes  of  Brann  the  Iconoclastor  Colonel  Robert  Inger-  soll.  To  add  to  my  tribu-  lations,  the  departmental  head,  a  sallow  fiend  im-  bued  with  more  spit  and  polish  thana  British  ser-  geant-major,  demanded  the  strictest  esprit  de  corps  of  his  subordinates.  I  was  obliged  to  wear  a  blue  serge  suit  with  knick-  erbockers  at  all  times,  presumably  because  the  Messrs,  Schwimpf  and  " b" Grosbart  might  pop  in  on  a  tour  of  in-  spection.  Both  the  suit  and  my  long  black  stockings,  the  latter  rendered  greenish  by  repeated  washing,  tended  to  magnetize  the  lint  that  sifted  down  from  above,  so  that  I  appeared  to  have  rolled  in  swansdown,  but  once  the  boss  caught  me  in  shirtsleeves  I  numbly  obeyed  regulations.  To  anyone  seeing  me  in  my  lazaret-a  virtual  impossi-  bility,  what  with  the  forty-watt  bulb-  it  may  have  seemed  that  I  bore  my  lot  with  stoicism.  Inwardly,  I  seethed  with  fury,  clenching  my  teeth  as  I  worked  and  composing  bitter  tirades,  patterned  after  Brann  and  Ingersoll,  against  retail  merchandising.  One  day,  in  an  apoca-  lyptic  revelation,  it  dawned  on  me  that  I  had  been  exploited:  a  dollarfor  ten  hours'  work  was  less  than  I  had  earned  as  a  free  lance.  That  night,  I  tore  my  pay  envelope  to  shreds,  chalked  a  gar-  goyle  likeness  of  the  section  manager  on  the  trapdoor,  and  walked  out  of  the  Bechive-as  I  thought-forever.  HE  heaven-sent  opportunity  to  revenge  myself  came  this  past  June,  when,  attending  a  class  reunion  and  quahog  roast  in  the  area,  I  was  in-  vited  to  participate  in  a  morning  TV  show  sponsored  by  the  Beehive.  The  program,  I  was  overjoyed  to  learn,  emanated  from  the  store  itself,  and,  mirabile  dictu,  no  less  a  personage  than  Schwimpf's  grandson,  the  present  head  ofthe  company,  was  to  interview  me.  A  bulbous,  self-satisfied  princeling  in  a  Pierre  Cardin  suit,  Schwimpf  was  all  greasy  affability  as  he  presented  me  to  the  audience.  What  nostalgia  this  return  to  my  early  haunts  must  evoke,  he  speculated,  crinkling  up  his  eyes  and  twirling  his  sideburns.  Quite,  I  admitted-the  more  so  since  I  had  worked  at  the  Bechive  in  my  youth.  His  nostrils  dilated  pridefully  at  the  scent  of  an  unsolicited  testimonial.  No  doubt  the  experience  had  ripened  me,  af-  forded  many  psychological  insights  one  was  privileged  to  glean  in.a  great  de-  partment  store.  Would  I  care  to  re-  count  my  memories  ofthat  period?  I  dimpled  suitably  and  began.  To  give  the  viewers  a  frame  of  ref-  erence,  as  it  were,  I  sketched  in  several  vignettes  out  of  the  past-Dickens'  boyhood  in  the  blacking  factory,  the  occupational  hazards  to  adolescent  fe-  males  at  Bryant  &amp;  May's  matchworks,  and  the  inhumanities  prevalent  in  the  naval  hulks  at  Portsmouth.  Neverthe-  less,  I  continued,  let  nobody  take  refuge  in  sanctimony  and  pretend  that  such  oppression  was  confined  to  Victorian  [REDACTED].  I  myself  had  undergone  as  much  in  this  very  building,  I  an-  nounced,  and  went  on  to  particularize.  I  had  to  talk  swiftly,  for  a  glance  at  Schwimpf,  whose  face  had  gone  the  sickly  color  of  pork  fat,  told  me  that  the  moment  he  rallied  his  faculties  I  was     off  the  air.  I  therefore  gave  only  high-  lights,  restricting  myself  to  details  that  I  felt  would  rivet  the  listeners.  I  did  emphasize  one  point,  though-viz.,  that  nothing  seemed  to  have  changed  at  the  Beehive  across  the  years.  The  same  pallid  employees  were  visible  in  the  same  abject  state  of  peonage,  cring-  ing  under  the  whiplash  of  overseers.  Unfortunately,  before  I  could  urge  the  wretched  creatures  to  seize  the  prem-  ises  and  set  up  a  commune,  Schwimpf  got  to  the  engineer.  My  exit  might  have  been  more  effective  had  I  not  tripped  over  a  cable,  but  at  any  rate  the  cam-  eras  had  stopped  grinding  by  then.  A,TOGETHER,  I  felt  so  rejuve-  nated  by  my  little  talk,  so  filled  with  a  religious  sense  of  purification,  that,  a  week  later  in  New  York,  a  show-business  colleague  of  mine,  one  Arthur  Balthasar,  commented  on  how  radiant  I  looked.  On  learning  the  cause,  he  agreed  that  sweeter  than  honey  is  the  catharsis  that  springs  from  belated  vengeance,  and  proceeded  to  narrate  a  similar  instance  out  of  his  own  past.  Soon  after  the  First  World  War,  he  and  his  brother  Irving,  both  of  them  fledgling  playwrights,  shared  a  de-  crepit  studio  near  [REDACTED]  Square  in  the  Village,  where  they  eked  out  a  submarginal  existence  writing  verses  for  greeting  cards.  Their  pad  was  lit-  tle  more  than  a  hovel;  arctic  blasts  " b"  whistled  through  the  skylight,  the  floors  sagged  dangerously,  and  gobbets  of  plaster  scaled  from  the  walls  at  their  merest  breath.  Amid  the  desolation,  the  Balthasars  huddled  over  a  jackstove,  their  noses  waxen  with  cold  as  they  strove  to  compose  joyous  rhymes  for  Thanksgiving  and  the  Yuletide.  The  greeting-card  tycoon  on  whom  their  livelihood  depended  was  an  individual  named  Federbush,  a  callous  brute  who  battened  off  poets  like  themselves  and  drove  merciless  bargains  for  their  prod-  uct.  The  maximum  payment  for  any  verse  he  accepted  was  one  dollar,  but  he  was  hypercritical;  more  often  than  not,  when  the  brothers  brought  him  a  holiday  paean  he  rejected  it  as  sub-  standard.  &quot;It  ain't  merry,&quot;  he  would  grumble,  drawing  on  his  perfecto.  &quot;Go  back  to  your  hutch  and  sparkle  it  up.  Put  in  some  chuckles,  some  jollity.&quot;  Sick  at  heart,  the  Balthasars  would  return  to  the  jackstove  and  labor  to  inject  gaiety  into  their  verses,  but  Fed-  erbush  inevitably  responded  with  the  same  hateful  comment.  One  winter's  day,  the  pair  seemed  to  have  reached  the  absolute  limit  of  their  endurance.  Famished  and  on  the  edge  of  collapse,  theybore  their  week's  output  to  Feder-  bush,  whose  brows  contracted  as  he  read  it.  &quot;This  stuff's  no  good,&quot;  he  pro-  nounced.  &quot;How  many  times  do  I  have  to  tell  you-it  ain't  merry!  But  here's  what  I'll  do,&quot;  he  proposed,  as  they  snufflied  weakly.  &quot;Out  ofthe  kindness  of  my  heart,  I'll  pay  you  a  quarter  apiece  for  these.  Take  it  or  leave  it.&quot;  Starvation  being  the  sole  alternative,  they  took  it  and  went  their  way,  bitter-  ly  vowing  to  even  the  score  with  him  someday.  Ten  years  passed,  and  Irving  Balthasar,  now  transformed  into  a  lyric-writer,  managed  to  achieve  the  dream  of  his  profession-a  musical-  comedy  smash  on  [REDACTED].  Wealth  and  the  adulation  of  fair  women  poured  in  on  him,  ostensibly  encapsulating  his  early  wounds,  and  on  a  balmy  autumn  evening,  as  patrons  thronged  into  the  theatre  containing  his  hit,  he  stood  in  the  lobby  puffing  a  43756261  and  be-  nignly  surveying  the  crush.  Suddenly,  a  hand  gripped  his  shoulder  and  he  wheeled  about  to  find  Federbush,  ac-  companied  by  a  woman,  beaming  at  him.  &quot;Irving,  my  boy!&quot;  the  arrival  ex-  claimed,  oozing  bonhomie.  &quot;Remember  me?  You  should  -I  gave  you  your  start.  ...  Well,  you're  on  top  of  the  world,  hey?&quot;  Balthasar  stared  at  him,  hypnotized.  &quot;Oho!&quot;  Federbush  observed  cyni-  cally.  &quot;Maybe  you're  so  big-time  you  forgot  the  old  days.&quot;  &quot;I  never  forget  anything,&quot;  the  other  said  slowly.  &quot;Good,&quot;  said  Federbush.  &quot;Then  how  about  a  couple  of  passes  to  your  show  for  the  missus  and  me?&quot;  &quot;Hold  my  cigar,&quot;  Balthasar  directed,  handing  it  to  him.  He  turned  as  if  toward  the  box  office,  and  then,  flexing  his  muscles,  bent  down  and  picked  up  a  great  china  jardiniere  filled  with  sand  and  cigarette  ends.  &quot;It  ain't  merry!&quot;  he  shouted,  and  brought  it  down  full  force  on  Federbush's  sconce.  Oh,  well,  autres  temps,  autres  meeurs,  as  the  saying  goes.  Personally,  I  deplore  such  violence,  and  if,  as  Arthur  Bal-  thasar  added,  the  victim  recovered  with-  out  a  scratch,  the  gesture  was  futile  anyhow.  Nowadays,  and  thanks  to  the  wizardry  of  electronics,  we've  a  much  neater  tool  for  settling  ancient  feuds.  If  you  don't  believe  me,  just  ask  aparty  named  Schwimpf  who's  foaming  at  the  mouth  in  the  Beehive  in  [REDACTED],  R.I.  Or  was  the  last  I  saw  of  him,  I  sincerely  hope, "