 b"56  GREEN  GRASS,  BLUE  SKY,  WHITE  HOUSE  S  I  sit  here,  Floyd's  mother  mows  A  the  lawn.  The  whine  of  the  mower  can  be  heard  above  the  noise  of  her  grandchildren  at  their  horseplay.  IfI  close  my  eyes  the  sounds  are  like  those  we  see  in  comic  strips,  wHAM!  BAM!  POWIE!  rising  in  bal-  loons,  or  exploding  like  firecrackers.  All  in  fun,  of  course.  They  are  healthy,  growing  animals  and  have  to  work  off  their  energies  somehow.  Why  notwith  the  mower?  Mrs.  Collins  likes  to  mow  her  own  lawn.  Any  day  but  Sunday,  either  Franklin  [REDACTED],  or  Lyle,  or  even  Melanie,  would  pop  up  from  somewhere  and  do  it  for  her,  but  Reu-  ben  [REDACTED]  insists  that  his  children  keep  the  Sabbath  holy.  The  Lord  rested,  and  so  do  the  De537061696es.  A  farm  girl  to  begin  with,  Mrs.  Collins  likes  to  get  her  hands  on  a  machine  that  works  and  work  it.  The  blades  spinfree  when  she  nears  a  tree  and  uses  short,  choppy  strokes.  The  whine  of  the  mower  makes  its  way  around  the  house,  and  on  the  long  run  at  the  back  it  is  almost  gone.  It  stops  when  twigs  from  the  elms  catch  be-  tween  the  blades,  I  can  tell  she  likes  to  work  around  the  tree  trunks  where  the  short,  hard  strokes  set  the  blades  to  whirring.  That's  a  sound  from  my  boyhood.  The  whirring  blades  of  a  mower  pushed  by  somebody  else.  I  F  |  [S  N  i  I  }     would  wait  forthe  thump  as  it  hit  the  house  at  the  end  of  its  run.  People  in  this  country  once  might  have  been  di-  vided  into  those  who  knew  that  sound  and  those  who  didn't;  those  who  liked  it  and  those  it  made  almost  sick.  All  summer  long,  freshly  cut  lawn  grass  weighted  the  cuffs  of  my  father's  pants.  One  of  Franklin  [REDACTED]'s  boys  walks  by  with  a  skateboard  he  carries  around  looking  for  sidewalks.  Not  all  the  streets  in  Ordway  have  them.  The  lawns  slope  down  to  bleed  into  the  weeds,  and  the  weeds  into  the  crum-  bling  blacktop.  Most  of  the  walks  in  town  are  of  brick  heaved  into  waves  and  troughs  by  tree  roots.  The  only  walking  people  do  is  from  the  door  at  the  back  of  the  house  to  the  car  parked  in  the  drive.  The  town  of  Ordway,  in  [REDACTED],  is  one  where  no  line  is  drawn  be-  tween  what  is  rural  and  what  is  urban.  A  cow  is  tethered  in  the  lot  facing  the  square,  where  the  sidewalk  bristles  with  parking  meters.  I've  seen  no  pigs,  but  the  older  residents,  like  Floyd's  mother,  keep  a  goat,  or  a  cow,  or  a  few  fenced  chickens.  Everything  is  here  to  make  the  good  life  possible.  Mrs.  Collins  at  one  point  gave  up  the  chickens  but  Mr.  Collins  missed  their  cackling.  The  silence  disturbed  his  rest  in  the  morning.  If  she  forgets  to  collect  the  eggs,  they  soon  have  an  old  hen  with  a  fresh  batch  of  chicks.  Almost  an  acre  of  lawn  surrounds  the  house,  and  there  is  sometimes  snow  in  the  yard  till  Easter,  the  first  spears  of  spring  grass  pale  as  winter  wheat.  At  the  back  it's  hard  to  tell  where  the  lawn  ends  and  the  fields  begin.  One  thing  I  have  learned  is  that  small-town  people  have  a  pallor  you  can  seldom  find  in  the  city.  If  they  roll  up  a  sleeve,  or  tuck  up  a  pants  leg,  the  bit  of  skin  that  shows  is  white  as  a  flour  sack.  Mrs.  Collins  wears  a  pair  of  Floyd's  unlaced  tennis  sneak-  ers  on  her  bare  feet.  His  sweaters  also  fit  her.  Her  overalls,  however,  once  belonged  to  Mr.  Collins,  and  the  seat  and  knees  are  patched  with  pieces  of  quilting.  That  makes  for  more  com-  fort  when  she  kneels  to  weed,  and  less  dampness  when  she  sits  to  cut  greens.  A  faded  gingham  sunbonnet  sits  back  on  her  head  to  let  the  sun  warm  her  face.  In  the  fall  the  yard  is  so  bright  with  leaves  Mrs.  Collins  tells  me  it's  almost  painful  to  look  at.  They  have  to  pull  the  shades  at  the  windows  to  sleep  at  night.  Both  a  fact  of  that  sort  or  a  death  in  the  family  Mrs.  Collins  re-  ports  with  an  appealing  smile.  If  my  eyes  are  on  her  faceI  often  miss  the  gist  of  what  she  is  saying.  Her  ex-  pression  remains  the  same:  a  beaming  smile,  an  affable,  open  good  nature.  If  I  hear  her  laughing,  it  is  usually  at  herself.  This  can  be  disconcerting  when  it  signals  something  is  wrong.  She  laughed,  her  daughter  tells  me,  when  she  fell  and  broke  her  hip.  Of  Scotch  descent,  with  a  long  Quaker  family  background,  Mrs.  Collins  believes  &quot;the  slings  and  arrows  of  misfortunes,&quot;  as  she  says,  are  as  much  to  be  experienced  as  anything  else.  Nothing  has  dimin-  ished  her  appetite  for  life.  The  Collins  house  is  substantial,  as  my  father  would  have  said,  with  a  run-  around  porch  that  is  tilted  like  a  ship's  deck,  the  spacious  lawn  shaded  by  syca-  mores  and  elms.  There's  a  cleared  spot  at  the  back,  hard  as  blacktop,  where  the  trash  and  the  leaves  are  burned.  The  two-board  gap  in  the  fence  indi-  cates  a  shortcut  that  connects  the  Collins  house  with  the  one  across  the  alley.  Her  daughter  Ruth  lives  there,  but  Ruth's  three  teen-age  boys  spend  most  of  their  time  in  the  Collins  kitchen,  or  roughhousing  at  the  back  of  the  yard.  A  trough  is  worn  into  the  yard  where  a  tire  swings  from  the  limb  of  an  elm.  The  Collins  kitchen  is  big,  and  un-  cluttered  with  modern  conveniences.  Mrs.  Collins  makes  my  toast  under  the  flame  in  the  oven,  then  scrapes  the  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  char  off  at  the  sink.  She  does  not  believe  in  any-  thing,  as  she  says,  &quot;that  you  have  to  plug  in.&quot;&quot;  The  crackle  of  her  long  hair,  worn  in  a  loose  bun  at  her  neck,  is  her  daily  assur-  ance  that  her  health  is  in  order  and  her  battery  is  charged.  In  the  house  she  wears  a  simple  grey  frock  with  touches  of  faded  lace  at  the  wrists  and  throat.  I've  no  idea  if  she  knows  how  much  it  does  for  her  corn-yellow  hair.  She  pre-  fers  to  stand,  rather  than  sit,  her  hip  inclined  on  the  stove  rail,  or  the  sink,  with  one  of  her  brown  freckled  hands  holding  a  loose  wad  of  her  apron,  cupped  like  a  bird.  She  tests  heat  and  flavor  with  her  finger,  spits  on  the  skillet  before  making  hotcakes.  Into  the  first  pot  of  percolator  cof-  fee  she  puts  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  fresh  eggshell,  preferably  white.  I'm  told  that  the  house  swarmed  with  cats  until  her  daughter  Ruth  married  and  took  most  of  them  with  her.  Mrs.  Collins  says,  &quot;I  don't  mind  having  pets,  but  I  don't  like  the  pets  having  people,&quot;  meaning  Mr.  Collins  and  his  old  dog  Ruby,  now  dead  three  years.  Every  day  in  his  life,  which  proved  to  be  a  long  one,  Ruby  would  walk  Mr.  Col-  lins  to  the  railroad  crossing,  look  up  and  down  in  both  directions,  then  lead  him  across  if  it  was  safe.  When  Mr.  Collins  stopped  making  the  walk,  Ruby  went  under  the  house  porch  and  refused  to  come  out,  It  was  the  end  of  the  run  for  both  Ruby  and  the  St.  Louis  &amp;  Troy.  Although  itis  fifteen  years  since  a  train  entered  Ordway,  Mr.  Collins  still  wears  the  striped  overalls  pre-  ferred  by  trainmen,  and  one  of  the  high-crowned,  long-billed  brakeman's  hats.  This  he  leaves  on  his  head  until  Mrs.  Collins  says,  &quot;Papa,your  cap.&quot;  All  members  of  the  family  speak  of  him  as  Papa,  but  not  often  to  his  face.  His  skin  is  smooth,  as  if  dampened  and  then  stretched  on  his  skull.  The  abundance  of  his  hair  gives  the  impression  that  his  head  is  not  fully  developed,  or  with  time  has  shrunk.  His  pale  blue  eyes  have  afocus  just  beyond  the  object  of  his  attention.  Before  speaking  he  nerv-  ously  fingers  the  bill  of  his  cap.  The  two  subjects  Mr.  Collins  never  loses  sight  of  are  NormanThomas  and  the  old  dog  Ruby.  A  picture  of  Ruby,  a  gourd-shaped  little  terrier  with  his  head  almost  swallowed  by  his  thickening  neck,  is  among  the  family  portraits  on  the  sewing  machine.  More  recent  snapshots,  featuring  the  grandchildren,  Waldo,  Luther,  and  Clarence,  are  on  the  piano.  Waldo  and  Luther  take  after  their  father,  a  huge,  affable  man  in  the  road-construction  business.  The  younger  boy,  Clarence,  is  small-boned  like  his  mother,  but  almost  six  feet  tall.  He  has  grown  too  fast,  and  his  move-  ments  are  those  of  a  boy  on  stilts.  The  boy's  like  to  roughhouse  and  can  usually  be  heard  clopping  up  and  down  the  stairs  of  the  Collins  house,  chased  by  Clarence,  or  mawling  like  dogs  at  the  back  of  the  yard.  Waldo  has  picked  up  such  lingo  as  &quot;Sock  it  to  me!&quot;  supplemented  with  cries  of  &quot;Wham!  Bam!  Powie!&quot;  The  trouble  starts  when  Clarence,  wearing  one  of  Melanie's  aprons,  helps  her  wash  and  dry  the  dishes.  It  is  a  point  of  pride  with  Mrs.  Col-  lins  that  she  has  no  keys;  the  house  is  never  locked.  Back  in  the  Depression,  when  they  took  in  roomers,  the  keys  disappeared  in  the  pockets  of  strangers,  and  Mrs.  Collins  has  never  troubled  to  replace  them.  Mr.  Collins  pads  through  my  room,  while  I  sleep,  because  it  has  always  been  his  way  to  the  bathroom.  If  he  took  another  route,  strange  to  his  habits,  he  might  easily  stumble  or  bump  into  something.  To  close  a  door  so  that  it  clicks  is  to  imply  that  you  have  some-  thing  to  hide.  It  has  been  years  since  the  bathroom  door  actually  latched  shut.  If  it  is  closed,  the  draft  nudges  57     /\xc2\xbb  it  open.  During  the  night  the  light  provides  a  beacon,  and  the  drip  in  the  tub  is  like  the  tick  of  a  clock.  Unless  the  bathroom  door  stands  open  wide,  it  is  safe  to  assume  there  is  someone  behind  it.  Most  members  of  the  family  make  a  characteristic  sound  when  steps  approach.  Mrs.  Collins  hums,  Melanie  turns  on  a  faucet  in  the  bowl  and  lets  it  run.  Mr.  Collins,  however,  is  absolutely  silent.  He  sits  dreaming  on  the  stool,his  brown  hands  on  his  white  knees,  his  gaze  on  the  leaf-clogged  gut-  ters  of  the  porch  visible  from  the  bath-  room  window.  An  intruder  need  not  disturb  him.  The  boys  shower  while  he  sits  there.  Privacy  can  be  had  by  going  up  one  floor  and  using  the  small  water  closet,  but  the  flush  of  the  water  when  the  chain  is  pulled  seems  designed  to  clean  out  miles  of  plumbing,  and  burps  in  all  the  sinks.  If  this  were  not  Sunday,  or  if  the  grass  had  been  mowed,  Mrs.  Collins  would  be  seated  in  the  porch  rocker.  It  is  of  wood,  the  rungs  turned  by  hand,  the  cane  seatso  new  it  resembles  plastic.  Layers  of  green  and  brown  paint  are  visible  where  Mrs.  Collins  grips  the  chair  arms.  She  takes  a  strong  grip  when  she  rocks,  as  if  she  feared  the  chair  might  take  off.  The  spreading  legs  are  reinforced  with  baling  wire  still  fuzzy  with  the  hair  of  the  Collins  cats.  They  used  to  retire  there  to  get  away  from  Ruby,  and  one  of  the  toms  had  his  tail  amputated.  Never  again  did  he  set  foot  on  the  Collins  porch.  At  one  time  as  many  as  eight  or  ten  " b"58  children  ran  in  and  out  of  the  house,  and  sagged  the  rails  of  the  porches.  The  chain  swing  had  to  be  taken  down  to  keep  them  from  wearing  a  hole  in  the  clapboards.  They  Aad  to  rock  it  side-  ways,  or  swing  it  so  high  the  whole  house  leaned  one  way,  then  the  other,  The  hooks  for  the  swing  are  still  there  in  the  ceiling,  but  who  would  swing  if  they  put  it  back  up?  Not  the  new  gen-  eration.  The  porch  stoop  used  to  sag  with  the  [REDACTED]  children,  who  were  too  polite  to  usethe  hammock.  They  were  noisy,  but  they  had  breeding  and  refused  to  do  a  lick  of  work  on  Sun-  day.  Mr.  Collins  would  torment  them  by  offering  them  money  to  run  down  and  buy  him  his  White  Owl  cigar.  The  other  days  of  the  week  they  had  to  offer  to  do  it  for  nothing.  For  every  biscuit  that  was  eaten  at  the  Collins  table,  two  biscuits  went  out  the  door  with  Rose-  mary  [REDACTED],  Reuben's  wife,  along  with  what  she  loosely  defined  as  &quot;left-  overs.&quot;  She  in  turn  donated  her  coffee  stamps  during  the  war,  when  Mr.  Col-  lins  began  to  suffer  his  withdrawal  headaches.  He  was  accustomed  to  eight  strong  cups  a  day,  and  that  was  what  he  got.  Sunday  being  the  day  of  rest,  the  De537061696es  liked  to  spend  it  where  they  could  watch  other  people  work.  Rosemary  is  gone  now,  but  Mrs.  Col-  lins  tells  me  she  got  up  early  to  sit  in  the  Collins  kitchen,  watching  Ruth  and  Mrs.  Collins  prepare  the  Sunday  meal.  In  case  she  ever  had  to  do  it,  she  want-  ed  to  be  sure  she  knew  how  it  was  done.  Reuben  [REDACTED]  tells  me  that  his  wife  was  black  and  blue  as  a  new  stovepipe,  but  their  children  and  grand-  children  are  best  described  as  &quot;golden  oak.&quot;  [REDACTED]  claims  that  it  comes  from  his  French  and  Castilian  ancestry.  The  boys  have  their  father's  light  cop-  per  tan,  but  Melanie  is  so  pale  out-of-  town  people  take  her  for  an  Italian,  like  Sophia  Loren.  She  has  Sophia's  big,  half-popped  eyes  and  wide  full  mouth.  Mrs.  Collins  likes  to  tell  how  Floyd  would  ask  her  why  his  own  tan  peeled  and  Melanie's  didn't.  Unless  she  smiles,  or  talks,  her  impassive  expression  ap-  pears  to  be  sullen.  Melanie  is  inclined  to  be  accident-prone,  and  wears  Band-  Aids  on  her  fingers  andarms  from  stove  burns.  The  burn  soon  heals,  but  the  print  of  the  adhesive  leaves  a  visible  pattern.  Mrs.  Collins  says  to  her,  &quot;Melanie,  that  stove  bite  you  again?&quot;  Melanie's  chores  are  to  cook,  tidy  up,  make  the  beds,  and  hand-wash  Floyd's  dress  shirts  in  case  he  dirties  any.  She  leaves  the  ironing  board  standing,  blocking  the  pantry,  to  show  that  a  woman's  work  is  never  done.  She  smokes  Camels  as  she  works,  dropping   the  ashes  on  the  ironing  and  between  the  sheets.  &quot;One  day  you're  going  to  burn  this  house  down,&quot;  Mrs.  Collins  says,  and  both  women  laugh.  Melanie  leaves  the  butts  resting  on  the  ashtrays,  the  edges  of  the  bureaus,  windowsills,  and  cereal  cartons,  orthey  slow-burn  holes  in  the  oilcloth  or  char  a  hole  in  the  plastic  soap  dishes,  or  burn  down  till  they  tilt  off  something  and  drop  to  the  floor.  When  Melanie  laughs  she  turns  her  back  and  you  see  the  top  of  her  head  rather  than  the  roof  of  her  mouth.  She  takes  shame  in  her  dark  laughter,  and  wipes  it  off  her  mouth  before  she  turns  to  face  me.  Around  the  house,  as  adust  cap,  she  wears  a  shower  hat  in  which  she  stores  her  matches  and  pack  of  Camels.  Thinking  up  things  to  keep  Melanie  &quot;busy&quot;  is  one  of  Mrs.  Collins'  endless  chores.  While  Melanie  wan-  ders  around  tidying  up,  Mrs.  Collins  prepares  for  her  the  well-balanced  lunch  she  never  gets  at  home.  Left  to  herself  Melanie  will-  eat  nothing  but  creamed  canned  corn  and  chipped  beef  in  a  white  sauce.  She  loves  diet  cola  spiked  with  a  spoonful  of  chocolate  syrup.  The  two  women  eat  together,  discussing  samples  of  cloth  Mrs.  Col-  lins  receives  from  a  store  in  [REDACTED].  She  has  in  mind  a  dressfor  herself  and  a  new  winter  coat  for  Melanie.  One  of  Floyd's  chores,  when  he  was  at  home,  was  to  pick  up  Melanie  in  the  morning  and  get  her  home  to  make  her  father's  supper  in  the  evening.  On  arriving,  Melanie  calls  out,  &quot;Here  I     am,  Mrs.  Collins,&quot;  and  waits  until  she  is  told  what  to  do.  They  both  have  a  cup  of  coffee  while  theyplan  her  day's  work.  &quot;What'll  I  do  now?&quot;  is  perhaps  the  one  thing  that  Mrs,  Collins  hears  the  most.  Finding  work  to  do  for  Franklin,  Lyle,  and  Melanie  gets  Mrs.  Collins  up  early  and  often  keeps  her  awake.  &quot;Before  I  ever  make  a  move,&quot;  Mrs.  Collins  tells  me,  &quot;the  first  thing  I  think  of  is  Franklin  and  Lyle.&quot;  They  don't  like  to  be  idle,  but  they  like  her  to  tell  them  what  to  do.  Mrs.  Collins  has  never  gone  to  some  ofthe  places  she  would  like  to,  because  the  De537061696es  take  so  much  looking  after.  Especially  Reuben,  who  can't  stand  to  be  idle  now  his  wife  is  dead.  This  being  Sun-  day,  however,  he  is  willing  to  sit  in  front  ofthe  barn  under  a  new  painted  sign  that  reads  REUBEN  DESPAIN  I  buy  junkand  sell  antiques  He  doesn't  buy  junk,  of  course,  he  gets  it  all  free,  but  one  of  his  clients  thought  the  remark  would  make  a  good  sign.  [REDACTED]  came  to  Ordway  in  the  early  years  of  the  Depression,  when  some  of  the  whites,  as  well  as  the  &quot;coloreds,&quot;  took  their  pay  in  milk  and  eggs  and  leftovers,  His  children  wore  the  clothes  the  Collins  children  grew  out  of.  He  never  complained.  For  twenty-five  years  he  walked  a  horse  and  wagon-the  horse  wearing  a  bonnet  to  ward  off  sunstroke-up  one  street  and  down  the  other  collecting  whatever  people  had  to  throw  away,  or  believed  they  had  worn  out.  After  the  war  it  began  to  add  up.  The  software,  socalled,  Rosemary  [REDACTED]  cleaned  up  and  sold  once  a  year  in  the  Method-  ist  basement;  the  hardware  Reuben  [REDACTED]  stowed  away  in  the  Collins  barn.  The  government  didn't  want  it,  you  couldn't  eat  it,  or  sell  it,  and  it  " b"  wouldn't  burn.  To  make  room  for  such  stuff  one  of  the  Collins  cars  had  to  sit  out  in  the  yard,  splattered  with  bird  droppings,  or  in  the  freezing  winter  weather  over  one  of  the  grease  pits  in  the  Collins  service  station.  The  other  car,  a  Model  T  Ford  with  a  brass  radi-  ator  and  a  [REDACTED]  top,  had  become  so  old  it  belonged  in  the  barn  as  part  of  the  junk.  It  had  never  actually  been  given  to  Reuben  [REDACTED],  but,  as  Floyd  liked  to  say,  it  had  been  ceded  to  him.  It  had  been  thought  to  be  junk,  and  if  it  was  junk  it  belonged  to  [REDACTED].  A  gentleman  in  Des  Moines  has  an  option  on  the  car,  and  pays  five  dollars  a  month  for  [REDACTED]  to  store  it  for  him.  He  doesn't  seem  to  mind  that  the  price  of  the  car  goes  up  and  up.  Two  or  three  times  a  year  a  woman  from  St.  Louis  comes  over  in  her  station  wagon  for  [REDACTED]'s  old  bottles,  beaded  lamp-  shades,  wall  and  mantel  clocks,  oil  lamps,  and  old  records.  A  [REDACTED]  " b" firm  that  makes  stoves  will  buy  any-  thing  good  [REDACTED]  lays  a  hand  on,  in-  cluding  theold  Mayflower  coke  burner  he  warms  his  house  withover  the  win-  ter.  It  has  a  &quot;sold&quot;  tag  on  it,  but  he  is  free  to  use  it  while  he  is  still  around.  There's  more  people  than  [REDACTED]  can  keep  track  of  to  collect  the  buttons  he  snips  off  old  clothes.  Mrs.  Collins  has  explained,  and  [REDACTED]  has  grasped,  that  as  money  gets  cheaper  his  junk  gets  dearer.  He  lets  it  sit.  [REDACTED]  won't  sell  his  records  or  his  clocks  to  people  who  impress  him  as  careless  in  such  matters.  Clocks  run  for  him.  Once  off  the  premises  they  stop.  There's  an  account  at  the  bank  for  Reuben  [REDACTED]  and  family  that  will  pass  on  to  his  heirs  if  they  can  bother  to  be  troubled.  Money  is  something  they  don't  understand,  and  have  al-  ways  left  to  Floyd.  Besides  Melanie,  Franklin,  and  Lyle,  there  are  Frank-  lin's  three  children.  In  the  mid-fifties  Franklin,  a  year  older  than  Lyle,  took  fifty  dollars  from  the  bankand  went  to  [REDACTED],  where  he  planned  a  new  start.  He  left  in  June  and  was  back  in  Oc-  tober.  A  few  years  later  Lyle  went  to  St.  Louis,  where  he  enrolled  in  a  Peace  Corps  program.  He  learned  to  type,  and  returned  with  a  machine  on  which  he  still  owed  thirty-eight  dollars.  Both  boys  were  noncommittal,  but  according  to  Mrs.  Collins  they  were  shocked  by     people's  behavior.  They  were  also  homesick,  and  tired  of  people  who  called  light-colored  boys  black.  Finding  work  for  them  to  do  was  a  strain  for  Mrs.  Collins  untl  Floyd  thought  of  installing  a  car  wash  at  the  back  of  the  service  station.  Running  the  station  is  a  family  enterprise,  and  all  members  of  the  family  contribute  to  it.  When  Floyd  was  at  home,  he  ran  it;  and  Ruth's  husband  runs  it  in  the  slack  season  for  road  work;  and  there  is  always  Mrs.  Collins,  or  one  of  Ruth's  boys,  to  help  at  the  pumps  on  a  busy  weekend.  The  car  wash  occupies  space  once  used  for  parking,  and  does  a  good  business  with  college  boys  from  Mason  City.  Franklin  and  Lyle  are  good  workers,  but  they  seem  to  lack  initiative.  They  work  better  when  Mrs,  Collins  is  around,  and  they  like  her  to  handle  the  accounts.  Frank-  Iin's  two  oldest  boys  are  very  good  with  a  wax  job,  but  it  doesn't  help  matters  that  one  has  the  name  Floyd.  This  seemed  very  touching  when  Franklin's  son  was  born,  but  it  led  to  nothing  but  complications.  When  some-  one  hollered  &quot;Floyd,&quot;  both  Floyds  an-  swered.  The  result  was  that  Floyd  Collins  would  seldom  answer  when  his  name  was  called.  He  didn't  mean  to  be  rude,  or  insist  on  2{r.  Collins,  but  what  could  he  do?  From  where  I  am  seated  I  can't  OCTOBER  25,  1969  see  but  I  can  hear  the  hiss  and  spray  of  steam  at  the  car  wash,  and  the  sound  of  the  gong  as  a  car  pulls  into  the  sta-  tion.  Until  just  recent-  ly  Reuben  [REDACTED]  took  care  of  such  things  as  the  tires,  windshields,  etc.,  but  all  that  stoop-  ing  and  bending  didn't  help  his  back  any,  and  his  right  arm,  especial-  ly  his  &quot;windshield  el-  bow,&quot;  seemed  to  get  worse.  All  he  had  to  do  was  pick  up  a  rag  and  he  would  feel  the  twinge  of  pain.  Mrs.  Collins  thought  he'd  better  just  sit  and  take  it  easy,  before  it  got  so  he  couldn't  use  his  arm  to  eat  with.  There's  nothing  harder  for  Reuben  to  do  than  just  sit,  but  that's  now  what  he  does,  His  platform  rocker,  covered  with  plum-colored  velvet  once  popular  on  train  seats,  sits  under  a  beach  umbrella  in  the  dappled  shade  at  the  front  of  the  barn.  The  arms  are  too  low,  the  back  is  too  high,  and  the  angle  is  all  wrong  for  comfort,  but  [REDACTED]  has  never  losthis  taste  for  elegance.  His  ancestors,  by  published  account,  were  influential  pirates  and  patrons  of  the  arts.  He  has  the  nose,  forehead,  and  melancholy  eyes  of  the  clergy  painted  by  El  Greco.  He  also  has  the  style.  If  [REDACTED]  is  asked  if  he  has  something  or  other,  he  will  reply  I  shall  endeavor  to  ascertain  it,&quot;  then  go  and  look.  For  seven  years  he  was  one  of  the  servants  close  to  Governor  Huey  Long.  He  considers  the  Governor  one  of  the  country's  great  men.  Five  weeks  fol-  lowing  the  assassination,  [REDACTED]  and  his  family,  on  their  way  to  [REDACTED],  were  towed  into  Ordway  by  a  Mason  City  milkman.  The  car  had  broken  down.  It  proved  to  be  an  Essex,  of  a  year  and  a  model  for  which  parts  were  no  longer  available.  Mr.  Collins  let  them  camp  in  the  railroad  station,  where  they  could  use  the  lavatories  and  the  drinking  fountain,  while  Reuben  [REDACTED]  considered  his  next  move.  That  proved  to  be  into  the  barn  be-  hind  the  Collins  house.  In  a  few  weeks'  time  Mrs.  Collins  hardly  knew  how  she  had  ever  got  along  without  him.  &quot;Ma'am,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;all  Reuben  De-  537061696e  aims  to  do  is  please.&quot;  Some  of  the  younger  generation     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  think  of  [REDACTED]  as  a  swami,  thanks  to  his  remarkable  elegance  of  speech.  He  need  say  no  more  than  &quot;Consider  the  lilies-&quot;  to  gather  a  group  of  teen-  age  loafers  around  him.  On  warm  sultry  days,  between  his  neck  and  his  collar  he  slips  a  clean  white  kerchief  scented  with  insect  repellent.  He  claims  it  keeps  him  free  of  pests  while  he  naps.  He  wears  a  carpenter's  apron  with  the  big  nail  pockets  full  of  un-  sorted  parking-meter  pennies.  He  gets  them  from  the  Ordway  police  depart-  ment.  Sorting  them  carefully  by  hand,  he  turns  up  the  coins  he  sells  to  a  col-  lector  in  Independence.  Real  copper  pennies  are  so  close  to  [REDACTED]'s  color  you  feel  they  got  it  from  the  rubbing  he  gives  them  to  bring  out  the  dates.  On  weekdays  you  can  see  Franklin  or  Lyle  seated  at  the  barn  door  tink-  ering  with  something  that  doesn't  work.  There  is  never  an  end.  Just  put-  ting  up  the  house  screens  and  taking  them  down  takes  two  or  three  weeks.  Reuben  [REDACTED]  sits  in  his  chair  brushing  off  the  rust  with  a  whisk  broom,  his  gesture  that  of  a  rail-  road  porter  dusting  the  lapels  of  Huey  Long.  In  the  winter  he  sits  inside  the  barn  and  mends  the  holes.  Mrs.  Collins  likes  to  feed  her  own  chickens  and  collect  the  eggs  (when  there  are  any  ),  but  without  Lyle  around  to  milk  her,  the  cow,  Bessie,  won't  give  her  milk.  In  the  spring  the  sheds  need  to  be  fumi-  gated  and  the  fourteen  trees  on  the  lot  pruned  and  sprayed.  In  the  dry  spells  everything  has  to  be  watered,  which  means  dragging  the  hoses  from  faucet  to  faucet,  the  pressure  sometimes  get-  ting  so  low  it  won't  operate  the  sprinkler:  Franklin's  boys  will  have  to  water  the  tomato  plants  with  the  watering  can.  Both  Franklin  and  Lyle  dislike  spray  noz-  zles  and  prefer  to  stand,  using  their  thumbs,  soak-  ing  up  the  water  with  their  shoes  and  pants  legs.  When  a  toilet  bowl  in  the  house  is  flushed,  the  pressure  drops  and  the  outside  water  goes  off.  Inside  the  house  the  drains  get  clogged  and  water  stands  for  days  in  the  second-floor  tub.  Period-  ically  roots  close  the  lines  to  the  cess-  pool  although  the  nearest  tree  is  forty-  eight  feet:  what  a  root  will  do  in  its  search  for  water  defies  belief.  The  lawn  grass  grows  so  thick  right  over  the  cess-  pool  Mrs.  Collins  has  to  run  at  it  with  the  mower,  but  she  will  not  cutor  use  table  greens  from  that  part  of  the  yard.  Melanie  has  been  warned  not  to  do  it,  either,  but  somehow  she  forgets.  I've  noticed  the  whole  house  shakes  when  the  boys  come  clopping  down  the  stairs.  The  pigeons  kept  by  a  neighbor,  in  a  roost  on  his  roof,  goup  on  the  sky  like  a  cloud  of  smoke.  There's  always  one  that  doesn't  seem  to  get  the  swing  of  it,  his  wings  flapping  like  a  loose  fan  belt.  Off  where  I  can't  see  them,  but  I  can  hear  them,  Waldo  and  Luther  are  starting  their  horseplay.  They  go  through  the  kitchen,  slamming  the  screen,  then  clop  around  the  house  like     61  cantering  horses.  Waldo  is  the  one  who  strips  the  leaves  off  the  lilac  bushes  as  he  makes  the  turns.  These  daily  runs  have  not  worn  away  the  grass,  but  they  have  firmed  it  down  so  that  it  has  a  different  color  and  texture,  like  the  flattened  wale  of  corduroy  or  the  plush  seat  ofa  chair.  Waldo  is  always  first,  a  step  or  two  ahead  of  Luther,  and  Clarence  trails  along  like  a  caboose.  If  Luther  stops  suddenly,  dropping  to  his  knees,  Clarence  will  stumble  over  him  as  if  he  were  a  bench.  He  never  seems  to  learn.  The  green  smear  of  grass  will  not  wash  off  his  elbows  and  bony  knees.  They  all  make  about  two  hooting  circles  of  the  house,  then  Waldo  heads  for  the  clearing  at  the  back.  Where  the  tire  swing  dangles  from  the  limb  of  an  elm,  he  grasps  the  rope  to  keep  from  collapsing.  He  can't  seem  to  stop  laugh-  ing.  Luther  is  so  winded  he  trips  on  his  own  feet,  and  sprawls  out  on  his  face.  He  lies  there  giggling  as  if  he  were  being  tickled  to  death.  Clarence  comes  along  so  many  moments  later  he  seems  part  of  another  scene.  I  first  thought  he  had  tired  and  run  down,  like  a  spring-wind  toy.  But  he  had  merely  paused  to  pick  up  a  length  of  clothesline.  He  straddles  Luther  and  flails  at  him  with  the  rope-but  it's  too  long.  He  can't  bring  it  around  with  the  proper  snap.  Waldo  is  so  winded  he  can  hardly  breathe,  but  he  hoarsely  yells,  &quot;Sock  it  to  'im!  Sock  it  to  'im!&quot;  Clarence  tries  to.  The  sound  is  that  of  someone  beating  a  carpet  with  a  small  switch.  Luther  will  not  stop  giggling,  and  Clarence  cries,  &quot;I'm  go-  ing  to  kill  you!  You  hear  [REDACTED];  Waldo  is  still  hoot-  ing,  but  he  has  sagged  to  drape  his  arms  around  the  tire.  In  that  position  Clar-  ence  is  able  to  flail  him  as  if  he  were  a  slave  clamped  in  the  stocks  or  tied  to  a  whipping  post.  From  behind  the  house  Mrs.  Collins  appears  hold-  ing  aloft  one  of  her  leath-  er-palmed  cotton  work  gloves.  She  wags  it  as  she  comes,  with  loping,  silent  strides,  to  where  Clarence  towers  over  Waldo.  No  word  is  spoken.  Waldo  and  Luther  are  hooting,  but  it  appears  to  beascene  " b"on  silent  film.  All  my  life,  or  so  it  seems,  I  have  watched  roughhousing  boys  interrupted  in  their  play  by  the  long  arm  of  Tom  Sawyer's  Aunt  Polly.  With  a  practiced  gesture  she  grips  Clarence,  wheels  him  about,  and  slaps  him  (POWIE!)  with  the  glove.  He  straightens  to  stand  like  a  machine  with  the  power  switched  off.  From  his  dangling  hand  she  takes  the  rope  and  shortens  it  to  give  him  a  slap  across  the  buttocks.  With  a  hoot,  he  takes  off.  In  an  instant  he  is  followed  by  Waldo,  who  lunges  to  avoid  the  swipe  she  gives  him.  Luther  is  last;  he  goes  off  howling  with  a  gleeful  shriek.  I  hear  the  screen  door  to  the  kitchen  open  and  slam,  and  then  the  clop  of  their  feet  on  the  front-  hall  stairs.  The  house  rocks.  I  feel  it  like  an  earth  tremor  in  the  boards  of  the  porch.  After  a  bout  of  such  horseplay  all  three  boys  like  to  take  long  showers  with  their  clothes  on,  then  come  down  and  sit  in  the  lawn  swing  to  dry  off.  Mrs.  Collins  stands,  her  face  to  the  sky,  watching  the  whirring  flight  of  the  neighbor's  pigeons.  The  dis-  turbance  has  flushed  her  face  with  color;  she  idlyslaps  the  shortened  length  of  rope  on  her  thigh.  &quot;My,  how  we  all  miss  Floyd!&quot;  she  says,  coming  toward  me,  and  her  smile  is  that  of  a  priestess  at  the  close  of  a  ceremony.  She  feels  better,  the  boys  feel  better,  and  she  would  like  to  as-  sure  me  I  should  feel  better,  What  is  a  little  violence  in  the  larger  ceremony  of  innocence?  She  turns  to  gaze  to-  ward  Mr.  Collins,  who  stands  in  the  garden,  leaning  on  a  hand  plow.  His  straw  hat  is  wider  than  his  shoulders,  and  the  wide  limp  brim  rests  on  his  ears.  He  looks  more  like  a  boy  day-  dreaming  at  his  chores  than  an  old  man  resting.  Nor  does  he  move  from  his  revery  until  he  hears  the  whirring  blades  of  the  mower..  On  my  drive  down  from  [REDACTED]  (I  was  given  ten  days  to  look  into  the  Collins  case)  I  stopped  in  St.  Louis  for  a  talk  with  Floyd.  They're  hold-  ing  him  there,  as  we  say,  for  observa-  tion.  He's  a  good-looking,  rustically  handsome  boy  with  his  mother's  jaw  and  prominent  features.  I  see  they  suit  a  man's  face  better  than  they  do  hers.  He  has  the  casual,  cool  manner  of  most  young  people,  and  lets  his  hair  grow  long  at  the  back.  While  we  talked  he  preferred  to  sit  on  the  floor,  with  his  knees  drawn  up.  Off  and  on  he  toyed  with  a  piece  of  cellophane  from  his  pack  of  Camel  cigarettes,  blowing  on  it  softly  as  he  held  it  pressed,  like  ablade  of  grass,  between  his  thumbs.  The  sound  emitted  is  high  and  shrill,  like  a  trapped  insect  ora  fingernail  on  glass.  I  once  made  such     a  sound,  or  tried  to,  blowing  through  a  dandelion  stem.  To  the  President  of  the  States  Floyd  Collins  wrote:  United  I  am  obliged  to  inform  you  your  life  is  threatened.  I  am  a  reasonable  man.  It  is  reason  that  compels  me  to  take  this  ac-  tion.  I  propose  to  take  your  one  life  to  spare  the  tens  of  thousands  of  innocent  men,  women,  and  children.  Please  stop  this  war  or  acceptthe  consequences.  I  liked  the  &quot;please.&quot;  It  showed  his  responsible  Quaker  breeding  and  will  also  help  to  commute  his  sentence,  since  no  shot  was  fired.  During  my  stay  in  Ordway,  Mrs.  Collins  has  treated  me  like  &quot;one  of  the  family,&quot;  and  that  is  how  I  feel.  One  of  the  family.  Some,  if  not  all,  of  the  emo-  tions  Floyd  Collins  has  felt.  I  see  a  cow  grazing,  Reuben  [REDACTED]  nap-  ping,  a  blue  sky  towers  above  me  and  green  grass  surrounds  me,and  inside  the  white  house  I  hear  boys  at  their  horseplay,  training  to  be  men.  &quot;I  raised  Floyd  to  believe  anything  is  possible,&quot;  Mrs.  Collins  says.  As  it  is,  of  course.  Here  in  Ordway  anything  is  possible.  Not  necessarily  what  Mrs.  Collins  has  in  mind,  or  Floyd  has  in  mind,  or  even  the  town  of  Ordway  has  in  mind,  but  what  a  dream  of  the  good  life,  and  reasonable  men,  makes  inevitable. "