 T  H  E  F  I  N  A  L  F  A  T  E  O  F  T  H  E  A  L  L  G  A  T  O  R  S  N  such  a  crowded,  busy  world  the  service  each  man  performs  is  neces-  sarily  a  small  one.  Arnie  Bush's  was  no  exception.  He  was  living  in  the  Chelsea  district  of  [REDACTED]  at  this  time,  although  he  had  lived  in  central  [REDACTED]  on  several  occasions,  as  well  as  [REDACTED]  and  Crisfield,  [REDACTED],  and  had  put  in  four  years  or  more  in  Galveston,  [REDACTED],  at  a  point  when  he  was  married  to  a  woman  who  lived  there.  He'd  thought  of  it  as  her  home  rather  than  his;  all  of  her  husbands,  as  far  as  he  knew,  had  left  Galveston  after  their  marriages  to  her  ended.  She  owned  a  laundromat  and  barbershop,  attached,  which  he  had  helped  her  manage.  She  was  a  cheerful,  practical  woman,  Ellen,  and  they'd  lived  with  her  two  sons  in  the  cottage  and  patio  area  behind  the  business  establishments.  When  he  met  her,  he  was  a  merchant  seaman  on  leave  from  the  sea,  room-  ing  in  Galveston  and  hanging  around  the  parks  and  bars,  though  he  already  knew  the  trade  of  barbering  also.  He'd  given  her  a  daughter,  as  a  matter  of  fact-her  only  daughter-whom  he  kept  in  touch  with  at  Christmastime.  The  girl,  whose  name  was  Jo-ann,  had  grown  out  of  her  teens  by  now,  and  he  was  hoping  she  would  visit  him  if  she  came  [REDACTED].  He  hadn't  seen  her  since  babyhood,  but  when  he  thought  of  her  he  imagined  that  she  looked  like  her  mother.  Ellen  was  a  smally  built,  active  woman  with  a  bumpy  complexion,  a  pretty  figure,  black,  scalloped  hair,  and  masculine  blue  eyes.  She  carped  and  bitched  a  bit  too  much  but  not  so  much  you  couldn't  stand  it,  and  since  she  wasn't  as  bossy  in  business  hours  as  she  was  at  home,  and  since  the  inescapably  boring  chores  were  handled  by  two  colored  employees  of  long  standing,  he  had  not  found  that  the  setup  in-  terrupted  his  independence.  Instead,  he'd  liked  being  married  to  a  business-  woman;  it  furnished  him  with  the  chance  to  operate  a  going  concern  without  the  ball-and-chain  aspectsof  owning  property.  He  hadn't  married  her  for  money  reasons,  however  (at  least,  he  didn't  recognize  the  motive  if  he  had),  but  for  the  special,  jumping,  bodily  impetuosity  between  them,  never  equalled  for  him  with  another  woman,  which  really  never  had  turned  sour.  Just  the  degree  of  intimacy  and  under-  standing  they  had  reached  was  unfor-  gettable;  he  hadn't  lived  four  years  with  anyone  else,  or  given  way  so  much,  opened  himself.  He'd  known  what  she  was  thinking  when  she  didn'tsay  anything,  and  known  that  underneath  the  peremptory  manner  she  was  a  home-  keeping  woman  as  well,  who  didn't  want  to  bitch  at  him  if  she  did  bitch,  who  disliked  her  own  bossiness  and  wanted  peace  and  asimple  household.  He  had  appreciated  her  youthful  bot-  tom,  her  mother's  bosom,  and  the  way  w  hier  she  gathered  her  hair  at  the  nape  of  her  neck.  They  went  to  Matamoros  to-  gether  on  a  week's  trip,  leaving  the  kids  with  the  woman  who  cooked.  They  dressed  in  sombreros  and  paper  shirts  and  saw  a  cockfight  and  a  festival  street  dance,  and  in  his  memory  this  trip  pretty  well  represented  what  a  mar-  riage  ought  to  be  like.  He  had  delighted  in  the  period  when  she  was  pregnant,  too,  partly  because  his  own  gravity  had  pleased  him.  But  Ellen  had  slowed  down-that  ambitious,  scrimping  fuss-  ing-had  leaned  on  him  and  showed  a  dreamy  side,  as  he  considered,  like  his.  More  than  at  the  chance  to  run  the  business  as  he  wanted,  he'd  been  happy  tosee  her  soften,  see  her  resemble  him.  And  the  whole  weighty  buildup  to  the  baby's  arrival-the  hydraulics,  the  clocking  of  it-had  seemed  the  marvel  that  it  ought  to  be;  and  then  the  hump  under  the  blanket  and  the  red  head  and  skin,  the  sleeping  and  the  sucking,  the  rooting,  the  tunnelling,  the  reach-  ing  up,  the  funny-looking  undershirt.  He'd  called  her  Milkmouse.  He'd  hung  over  the  crib;  he'd  brought  home  cotton  lambs  and  rubber  fish,  full  of  a  welling  gentleness  that  mixed  with  the  detachment  that  was  native  to  him  and  easily  passed  for  gentleness.  There  were  certain  moments  in  the  routines  he  detested-at  breakfast,  for  example,  which  they  hurried  through.  When  they  were  about  to  get  up  from  the  table,  she'd  mention  whatever  was  on  her  mind,  speaking  rapidly  and  sharply  afterthe  silence  of  the  meal.  &quot;I  want  the  gar-  bage  men  to  clean  up  all  that  stuff  they're  chucking  on  the  ground;  I  want  you  to  call  them  about  it.  They  can't  just  drive  away  and  leave  a  mess  like  that  around.  And  the  Bendix  people  were  supposed  to  be  here  yesterday.  He  knows  we  have  two  machines  out.  They  were  supposed  to  service  us  on  Monday  and  they  didn't.&quot;  Sometimes  she  felt  cornered,  she  said,  by  the  need  to  hammer  at  these  guys  and  hold  her  own,  making  them  do  right,  though  she  was  thankful  to  have  Bush  tak-  ing  over  the  worst  of  it.  She  wrangled  with  him  at  breakfast  to  get  him  started  strong.  When  she  was  with  her  kids,  she  didn't  hold  out  areas  of  private  reserve,  but,  having  been  some-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  body's  wife  already  twice  before,  with  Ar-  nie  she  was  a  pensive,  smiling  chum  at  best,  a  speedy  co-worker  rath-  er  than  the  kind  of  ul-  timate  companion  he'd  thought  a  wife  would  be.  He  resented  it  that  what  was  a  climax  for  him-his  marriage-  should  be  her  third,  and  that  she  didn't  flare  up  angrily,  for  in-  stance,  when  a  lady  called  her  Mrs.  Wes-  trom,  which  was  her  previous  husband's  name.  It  reminded  him  of  shacking  up,  orof  an  ordinary,  carnal-  ly  enlivened  partner-  ship,  and  he  was  disap-  pointed,  if  this  was  marriage,  even  more  than  he  admitted.  He  wasn't  one  to  raise  a  stew  about  it,  how-  ever;  he  was  a  quiet,  self-contained  fellow.  Probably  he  paid  more  attention  to  the  fe-  males  in  pearly  slacks  who  huffed  and  puffed  about  the  laun-  dromat,  eating  weight-saver  cookies  and  drinking  coffee  from  the  vending  machines,  and  remembered  the  sea,  of  course,  with  intensifying  nostalgia.  He  thought  of  his  teens  in  [REDACTED]  and  of  the  many  memories  of  his  twenties,  when  he  had  gone  to  sea  and  knocked  around  the  world-afterward,  he'd  fought  in  4974616c79  as  an  artilleryman.  Ex-  cept  for  Ellen,  the  baby,  and  his  two  stepsons,  he  had  no  ties  to  anyone,  but  he  discovered  that  these  ties  were  not  indissoluble,  either.  'The  boys  were  runabouts,  aged  eight  and  nine,  not  lovey  or  fazed  at  all,  and  Jo-ann  was  mostly  Ellen's  baby,  or  the  cook's.  Ellen's  preoccupations  were  with  the  normalities  of  mealtimes,  meeting  the  mortgage  bills,  preserving  her  neigh-  borly  relationships,  and  seeing  the  chil-  dren  grow,  whoever  her  husband  hap-  pened  to  be;  this  was  his  impression  any  way.  She  may  have  supposed  that  no  husband  could  be  held  for  long.  She  kept  a  bunch  of  photographs  of  herself  on  the  coffee  table  and  the  chests  of  drawers  to  give  the  kids  an  at-  mosphere  of  family,  she  said.  Bush,  who  got  awfully  tired  of  looking  at  them,  told  her  she  ought  to  go  into  show  biz.  He  was  living  well  but  was  annoyed  a  lot.  Being  a  believer  in  the  rule  book,   a  sentimentalist,  he  didn't  like  to  hear  her  joke  about  their  having  met  on  the  marina,  as  if  it  had  been  just  a  sort  of  pickup  and  as  if  she  were  lucky  to  have  gotten  married  to  the  man,  finally,  in-  stead  of  raped  by  him.  Best  were  their  evenings  in  bed,  lying  against  the  puffed  pillows  watching  television  after  the  kids  had  gone  to  sleep,  then  half  an  hour's  succulence  after  lights-out,  and  being  a  person  of  substance  the  next  day.  He  was  reasonable  by  nature;  he  didn't  fume  and  fight  as  his  restlessness  increased.  But  it  was  really  not  a  man's  life  there,  putting  in  the  bluing,  making  change.  Ellen  was  defeatist  when  they  quarrelled.  If  she  let  her  confusion  show,  he  was  touched;  if  she  was  ap-  prehensive,  so  was  he;  but  she  was  un-  relenting  too.  In  the  morning,  she  would  tell  him  what  she  wanted  done  in  the  same  remote,  peevish  tones,  her  face  assuming  the  fat  expression  of  someone  drawing  on  inner  resources.  It  was  as  if  he'd  as  good  as  left  her  al-  ready  and  she  had  her  children  and  friends  to  fall  back  on.  Apparently,  she  thought  her  marriages  were  a  sort  of  constitutional  folly.  She  said  her  friends  told  her  she  was  lucky  to  get  off  so  lightly  each  time.  Who  these  friends  were  Bush  didn't  know;  he  only  saw  a  bunch  of  business  friends-the  liquor  man,  the  electrician.  He  didn't  think  her  marriage  to  him  had  been  foolish,  but  if  that  was  her  attitude  what  could  he  do?  He  signed  on  the  Esso  Chile  at  last,  and  went  off  to  Bahrein  and  Maracai-  bo.  He  was  a  wiper  in  the  engine  room,  on  other  ships  sometimes  a  steward.  Actually,  he  wasn't  on  the  sea  for  many  years  during  this  second  stint  be-  fore  the  grittiness  and  bleakness  of  the  life  drove  him  to  land  again;  yet  he  did  love  the  ocean  and  continued  to  talk  about  it  wherever  he  was.  In  his  own  mind  he  was  a  seaman-a  seaman  ashore.  He  was  nearly  as  lonely  ashore  and  often  thought  of  Ellen,  suspecting,  indeed,  that  leaving  had  been  a  mistake.  He  knew  her  show  ofindifference  had  not  been  real.  She  hadn't  wanted  him  to  go,  but  he'd  let  her  pretend  she  didn't  care.  They'd  been  afraid;  they'd  both  pretended  it  was  a  matter  of  small  importance-he  would  go  back  into  the  merchant  marine,  she'd  live  just  as  be-  fore  and  maybe  marry  again.  So  the  proof  that  he  had  made  a  mistake  was  that  he  hadn't  stayed  on  the  sea  long.  Every  man  made  his  share  of  mistakes.  He  missed  being  part  of  a  household  and  painted  her  in  pastel  colors  when  he  was  disheartened,  but  he  decided  that  it  wasn't  the  mistakes  that  mat-  tered  so  crucially  as  where  you  were  at  the  end  of  them  all.  Bush  was  doing  fairly  well.  Stocky  " b" and  aging,  he  had  crewcut  gray  hair  and  a  mustache  and  lived  off  Ninth  Avenue,  close  to  the  harbor,  keeping  up  with  a  few  old  nautical  jokers  who  patronized  the  bars  he  went  to.  Like  them,  he  hadn't  seen  much  of  the  ocean  from  day  to  day,  being  hard  at  work  or  belowdecks  inhis  off-  hours,  but  what  he  remembered  was  the  massive  accumulation  of  what  he'd  seen.  It  overshadowed  the  other  job  surroundings  of  his  young  years,  just  as  his  one  marriage  dominated  the  mem-  ories  he  had  of  other  periods  spent  with  women  who  for  a  while  had  supplied  him  with  housing  and  with  sex.  He  was  a  sailor,  he  told  the  neighbors,  and  at  night  or  on  his  lunch  hour  when  he  took  a  stroll  he  remembered  the  ocean's  agitated  sheen,  like  nobbled  tin,  and  the  majestic,  chastening  pitch  of  the  water  when  the  wind  blew,  the  ship's  joints  creaking,  the  heavily  bumbering  en-  gines,  the  waves  thudding,  making  a  bass  hiss  against  the  hull.  His  apart-  ment,  although  a  walkup,  wasn't  too  grim.  One  window  faced  the  south,  and  the  sunlight  wasn't  impeded  because  the  adjacent  block  of  tenements  had  been  torn  down-a  process  that  he  knew  might  posea  problem  for  him  even-  tually,  but  in  the  meantime  his  rent  was  low.  He  had  a  barbering  position  in  an  " b"uptown  office  building,  and  managed  to  live  on  his  salary,  saving  his  tips.  HE  alligator,  like  an  overgrown  brown  invalid  confined  to  bed,  lived  in  the  big  bathtub.  If  an  outsider  had  been  invited  in  to  look  at  it,  he  would  have  gaped,  because  this  was  no  ten-inch  plaything  but  an  animal  of  barrel-like  girth,  with  a  rakish,  pitiless  mouth  as  long  as  a  man's  forearm  and  a  tail  as  long  as  his  legs.  The  cut  of  the  mouth,  however,  was  no  clue  to  the  alligator's  mood,  since,  like  the  croco-  dile  mask  that  a  child  wears  in  a  school  play,  it  was  vivid  but  never  changed.  The  eyes,  cel-gray  with  vertical  pupils,  were  not  as  static.  They  seemed  to  have  a  light  source  within  them,  and  the  great  body,  scummed  slightly  with  algae,  was  a  battlefield  shade,  the  shade  of  mud.  The  last  time  Bush  had  tried  to  determine  its  weight,  he  borrowed  a  slaughterhouse  scale,  fixed  a  sling,  and  hung  the  scale  from  a  ladder,  and  struggled  to  heft  the  animal  into  place,  but  he  couldn't  get  its  hind  end  off  the  ground.  Even  so,  the  scale  read  a  hun-  dred  and  thirty-some  pounds.  He  didn't  name  the  alligator,  because  it  wasn't  human;  in  no  way  was  it  human.  Like  Headley,  the  fellow  who  had  left  it  with  him  years  before,  he  never  lit  on  a  name  that  sounded  appropriate-not  the  Trinkas  and  Sams  that  apply  easily  to  dogs.  &quot;Alligator&quot;  did  very  well  for  nomenclature,  being  a  title  that  loomed  in  the  mind,  and  &quot;you&quot;  served  for  talk-  ing  to  it.  On  arrival,  it  had  still  been  of  a  size  to  permit  it  to  go  through  the  motions  of  swimming,  drawing  its  arms  along-  side  its  trunk  and  wriggling  abruptly  downward  in  the  tub  until  its  belly  brushed  the  bottom  and  its  blunt  snout  bumped  the  front.  It  had  been  four  feet  long  then,  and  Headley  and  he  had  carried  it  up  to  the  apartment  wrapped  in  a  blanket  against  the  cold.  The  fel-  low,  who  was  a  barfly,  a  lathe  operator,  was  goingSouth  to  Gainesville,  Geor-  gia,  to  visit  his  brother  andwanted  Bush  to  take  care  of  the  creature  until  afterthe  holidays.  He  kept  saying  that,  as  big  as  it  had  grown  since  he  had  bought  it-a  small  water  lizard  in  a  pet  store-it  must  be  worth  lots  of  money.  But  he  didn't  show  up  again.  Bush  laid  a  plank  on  the  toilet  seat  and  sat  in  the  bathroom  watching  his  new  companion  porpoise  and  wallow  for  exercise  as  best  it  could.  Once  he  realized  that  Headley  wasn't  coming  back,  he  bought  a  jumbo  junk  bathtub  from  a  wrecking  company,  paying  eighty-five  dollars,  including  the  deliv-  ery  charge.  He  could  shower  at  work,  and  so  the  inconvenience  of  keeping  the  animal  was  slight.  Furthermore,  he  soon  entered  into  what  he  considered  an  intimacy  with  it,  sothat  he  wouldn't  have  wanted  to  give  it  up.  While  he  knew  very  well  that  alligators  inhabit  fresh  water,  having  it  in  the  apartment,  he  found  a  great  many  of  his  seaman's  memories  springing  alive  with  a  clar-  ity  even  surpassing  the  clarity  of  life.  The  smoldering  waves,  the  sharks  and  whales,  the  dull-colored,  impassive  seas  on  a  smoky  day-these  sailors'  sights  and  many  more  churned  in  the  roil  along  with  the  alligator,  who  smelled,  in  fact,  quite  like  the  sea.  He  fed  it  on  chunks  of  stew  meat  twice  a  week,  not  a  demanding  chore,  and  opened  the  window  when  the  weather  was  warm  to  let  in  the  sunlight  direct.  At  the  public  library,  Bush  read  that  alligators  were  mild-tempered  com-  pared  to  their  crocodile  relatives-that  a  man  could  swim  in  a  slough  populat-  ed  with  alligators  without  the  likelihood  of  being  attacked.  He  read  that  they  preyed  on  waterfowl,  muskrats,  and  slow-swimming  fish,  and  he  fed  it  a  fryer  chicken  once  in  a  while,  bones  in-  cluded  and  the  feathers  left  on,  He  fed  it  fish,  too,  always  heedful  enough  in  his  overtures  to  its  mouth  end  not  to  pro-  voke  an  incident.  The  furor  of  feeding  time  was  the  main  danger,  when  the  alligator,  after  wringing  a  slab  of  meat  like  a  rabbit,  threw  it  up  into  the  air  for  the  pleasure  of  catching  it  deep  in  its  throat  when  it  came  down,  gargling  the  beef  like  a  strong  syrup.  Splashing,  galloping  in  place,  it  chomped  and  wor-  ried  the  meal,  and  Bush  was  touched  " b"56  because,  after  all,  in  such  scanty  quar-  ters  there  weren't  many  satisfactions  available  to  it.  On  less  frenzied  occa-  sions,  it  liked  to  feel  its  throat  rubbed,  including  the  gums  of  its  eighty  teeth-  just  as  long  as  he  kept  his  hands  off  its  muzzle,  where  the  nostrils  were,  and  away  from  its  blistering,  satin-gray  eyes.  The  eyes  sat  on  top  of  its  head  like  two  midget  riders,  and  the  nostrils  col-  lapsed  and  blew  open  like  a  horse's  nos-  trils  when  it  ducked  under  water.  Though  the  books  gave  a  vague  set  of  criteria,  he  couldn't  figure  out  the  sex  of  his  animal.  He  did  learn  that  at  only  five  years  an  alligator  may  already  be  sixty-six  inches,  which  put  into  per-  spective  Headley's  brief  role  in  its  life;  he  would  have  been  jealous  to  think  Headley  had  had  it  longer.  Except  to  run  water  into  the  tub,  Bush  often  left  it  to  its  own  devices. It  produced  a  clacking  sound  by  chop-  ping  its  teeth  and  at  eating  times  it  grunted,  too,  which  he  assumed  was  some  kind  of  adolescent  version  of  the  drumming,  reverberating  boom  with  which  full-grown  alligators  shook  the  bayous.  The  grunt,  faintly  explosive,  contained  an  animal  resonance  as  well  -a  waw.  At  the  zoo,  an  attendant  told  him  that  alligators  rarely  bred  in  captivity,  and  what  he  observed  of  conditions  there  assured  him  that  he  wasn't  unkind  to  keep  his  at  home.  Like  an  eccentric,  he  didn't  even  re-  gard  the  arrangement  as  strange.  He  was  a  dignified  man,  with  a  serious  nose,  his  mustache  fluffy  as  a  Russian's,  and  when  he  got  a  little  bit  drunk  nobody  handled  him  roughly.  Cutting  hair  ev-  ery  day  in  the  week  but  Sunday  and  drinking  draught  beer  in  the  evening  on  Twenty-third  Street,  he  had  no  trou-  ble  making  ends  meet;  and  he  didn't  acknowledge  his  birthdays  as  land-     OCTOBER  18,  1969  marks  at  all,  tucking  the  crimping  sensation  of  being  in  his  sixties  into  his  well-knit  walk.  He  didn't  resent  the  gator's  composure,  since  he  himself  was  self-sufficient.  The  alligator  slipped  imperceptibly  toward  adulthood,  as  befitted  an  ani-  mal  that  was  created  to  live  for  a  century.  Its  corrugated  back  was  pat-  terned  with  gray  diamonds,  although  blurred,  olive-drab  colors  overlaid  that-not  like  the  bright  baby  checks  Bushsaw  on  the  specimens  in  the  pet  stores,  They  were  yellow  and  black  and  had  tiny  bills,  with  a  Donald  Duck  ski-jump  effect  at  the  end;  their  tails,  though,  were  crenellated  already  and  their  eyes,  tinted  cinnamon-suiphur,  were  gay,  iridescent,  and  savage.  Like  a  runner  running  a  treadmill,  his  big  friend  surged  in  the  tub,  as  if  a  birler  were  birling.  Sometimes  it  in-  fated  its  lungs  and  then  would  de-  liberately  tryto  submerge,  swimming  against  its  own  buoyancy,  until  with  sensuous  relish  it  released  the  air  and  sank  down.  Another  exercise  was  to  seesaw,  lifting  and  lowering  its  tail,  making  its  hind  legs  the  fulcrum-legs  like  after-  thoughts  that  were  tacked  on.  Its  tail,  of  course,  was  the  motive  force  when  it  swam--  a  walloping  paddle  of  muscle,  which  the  saurians  of  the  Everglades,  three  times  the  size  of  his  monster,  swung  so  powerfully  when  they  hunted  at  night  that  they  could  knock  a  drinking  doe  into  deep  water  and  seize  her.  Limber  as  hide,  it  whacked  up  over  the  edge  ofthe  tub  and  against  the  wall  when  the  alligator  wanted  the  stingof  the  blow.  The  tail  seemed  to  lead  a  life  of  its  own,  twitching  quite  inde-  pendently,  motorized  separate,  ly,  and  when  the  body  moved  forward,  the  tail,  which  fol-  lowed  after  a  short  delay,  was  what  lent  its  progress  the  ap-  pearance  of  irresistibility  and  crisis.  Bush  provided  big  roasting  cutsof  meat  now,  and  real  mama  hens.  He  found  he  was  trusted  more,  and  he  could  stroke  the  nostrils,  opening  and  closing  under  his  hands,  or  reach  behind  the  ungainly  legs  to  the  tender,  pigeon-colored  armpit  skin.  He  loved  the  apartment's  sea  smell,  strong  as  it  was,  and  knew  that  in  possessing  such  a  remarkable  prize  he  was  erasing  all  of  that  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  bulk  of  his  life  when  he'd  stayed  ashore  as  a  dreamer,  working  in  lum-  beryards  and  snipping  people's  hair.  Reptile  leather  in  the  handbag  shops  began  to  be  labelled  &quot;caiman,&quot;  the  South  American  rel-  ative  of  the  alligator.  Then  it  was  gavial  skin,  and  the  baby  alligators  also  were  unobtainable;  he  was  told  they  weren't  being  shipped  any  more,  though  his  own  animal,  continuing  to  grow,  seemed  prepared  to  live  on  forever  on  behalf  of  the  species,  linked  back  to  the  dinosaur  dynasty.  As  its  girth  increased,  the  grin  on  its  jaws  became  more  theoretical,  as  if  it  were  pulling  the  wings  off  a  barfly  in  its  mind's  eye,  while  in  actuality  it  lived  like  a  very  fat  fellow,  whitening  like  ash  gradually,  its  eyes  a  white  furnace.  The  grin  wasn't  precisely  gloating,  however,  because  the  two  corners  sliced  back  to  the  very  roots  of  its  head-  there  was  more  grin,  perhaps,  than  the  gator  wanted-a  grin  of  chagrin,  a  grin  like  that  worn  by  a  man  whom  events  have  let  down  and  who,  grin-  ning  to  cover  the  fact,  betrays  the  bad  taste  at  the  back  of  his  mouth.  (c  BUSH,  too,  grew  grizzled.  He  read  the  newspapers  and  kept  up  in  a  less  hectored  fashion  by  hearing  the  head-  lines  read  on  the  radio-the  violent  malaise  of  the  sixties,  the  fads  and  bizarreries.  There  was  a  spate  of  sui-  cides  in  the  neighborhood,  and  peo-  ple  signalled  with  mirrors  from  their  bedrooms,  or  blinked  their  lights.  The  streets  were  tight  with  pedestrians.  He  made  his  home  his  castle  and  used  binoculars  to  keep  in  touch  with  his  neighbors,  though  he  was  not  him-  self  overswept  by  the  claustrophobia  abroad  in  the  world,  being  accustomed  to  shipboard  conditions,  He  watched  the  buildings  smoking,  and  then  when  the  city  stopped  them  from  smoking  for  the  sake  of  the  air,  that  in  a  way  was  eerie,  too,  because  so  much  was  going  on  inside  you  knew  they  ought  to  be  smoking.  The  alligator  had  been  ill  only  twice,  when  it  seemed  unable  to  open  its  eyes  and  the  eyelids  turned  blue.  It  lay  with  its  long  maw  closed,  and  a  fixed  vaudeville  smile,  propping  its  head  on  the  side  of  the  tub  so  that  it  needn't  come  up  for  air.  Bush  poured  bouillon  into  its  mouth  through  a  tube,  and  furnished  heaters,  and  for  the  time  that  the  illness  lasted  he  didn't  attempt  to  exercise  it.  Ordinarily,  haul-  ing,  assisting,  hegot  it  out  onto  the  floor  every  couple  of  days  for  a  walk  and  to  let  it  dry  thoroughly-let  it  lie  flat,  sprawling  its  arms,  while  he  cleaned  the  interstices  of  its  skin  where  fungi  might  gather.  The  logistics  were  not  ideal,  but  the  business  was  very  brotherly-the  struggle,  shoulder  to  shoulder,  to  jimmy  the  heavy  body  out  of  the  tub-and  he  didn't  get  tired  of  rubbing  his  hands  across  the  rich  hide.  On  both  occasions,the  alligator  got  well  in  a  week  or  so.  There  were  some  gradual  changes,  though.  Where-  as  before  when  he  watched  the  beast's  clumsy  galumphing  he  had  imagined  the  alligators  in  the  swamps  in  their  glory,  now  he  began  to  see  his  friend  just  trying  to  stay  alive.  The  alligator  stared  at  him  through  its  imprisoning  mask,  a  pleasure-pain  mask,  although  its  cruel  pupils  contained  all  the  harsh-  ness  of  millenniums  past-he  wasn't  so  sure  it  was  going  to  outlive  him.  A  man  downstairs  kept  fish,  and  Bush  arranged  that  if  he  should  die  this  person  would  telephone  the  zoo  and  get  them  to  take  the  alligator  safely.  Since  Ae  wasn't  made  to  last  for  a  century,  he  hadn't  expected  that  he  might  outlive  his  friend.  Besides  the  problem  of  fresh  air  and  space,  there  was  the  elaborate  question  of  diet.  How  could  he  dupli-  cate  the  crunchy,  glittery  nutrients  of  a  jungle  river?  Of  course  finally  he  couldn't-not  with  powdered  Vitamin  D  and  not  with  steer  beef.  Sometimes  the  alligator  loped  like  an  otter  with  constipation,  humped  awkwardly,  and  when  that  happened  his  own  belly  ached.  These  seizures  disturbed  him  dreadfully,  especially  when  he  decided      they  were  the  result  of  a  deficiency,  and  one  he  couldn't  correct.  Dancing  like  a  bear  that  had  burned  its  feet,  the  creature  suffered  sadly,  though  its  mask  was  still  heavy  and  comic  and  rigid.  Great  gouts  of  gas  came  up  in  bubbles,  released  from  the  alligator's  digestive  tract  after  much  lurching  and  shuffling.  It  craned  its  neck  to  per-  suade  them  to  come,  after  doing  an  agonized  gandy  dance,  or  a  dance  of  death.  During  the  night  one  weekend,  at  last,  it  died.  Bush  didn't  discover  the  fact  until  midmorning,  because  its  po-  sition  underwater  was  painless-looking  and  natural,  the  head  floating  just  in  the  attitude  of  an  alligator  at  peace  with  itself;  he  only  noticed  that  it  was  dead  when  he  saw  that  it  didn't  come  up  to  breathe.  However,  the  expression  was  a  terrible  one.  The  expression  was  like  the  Angel  of  Death's,  if,  as  seemed  likely,  an  alligator  confronts  the  Angel  of  Death  with  the  expression  of  the  Angel  of  Death.  And  all  of  those  aeons  were  etched  on  the  mask-all  of  the  meals  in  the  bubbling  mud,  the  proces-  sion  of  species  extinguished,  the  moun-  tain-building,  the  flooding  seas  and  the  baking  sun.  The  framework  of  daily  courtesies  was  over  between  them,  and  the  fury  and  barbarism  photographed  on  the  face  were  alive  like  a  flame.  He  might  have  called  in  the  leather-  toolers,  but  didn't.  He  and  his  neighbor  who  kept  fish  got  help  and  carried  the  alligator  down  to  the  street  late  Sun-  day  night,  leaving  it  stretched  insolitary  magnificence  across  the  sidewalk  for  the  city  to  figure  out  what  to  do  with.  He  had  these  three  memories,  then:  the  sea,  the  few  years  in  [REDACTED],  and  the  years  on  Twenty-first  Street,  with  the  mumbo-jumbo  that  filledin  be-  tween. "