I  AM  Y\xc2\xa5AITING  INE  o'clock-no,  his  wristwatch  shows  nearly  a  quarter  after-  and  Ernest  has  been  waiting  for  Maggie  for  three  hours.  If  he  knows  her  at  all  after  practically  living  with  her  for  two  years,  off  and  on,  he  has  another  two  or  three  hours  to  go.  Wait-  ing  for  her  is  nothing  new.  He  is  used  to  it,  really,  though  it  still  ties  him  up  in  knots.  But  tonight  they  were  plan-  ning  to  eat  out  at  a  place  in  the  East  Sixties  they  only  go  to  now  and  then  when  he  feels  flush,  and  Maggie  said  when  they  got  up  that  morning  that  she  would  definitely  be  back  on  time.  It  is  Friday  and  not  one  of  the  nights  she  often  works  late.  (She's  a  fashion  co-  ordinator  for  TV  and  industrial  shows  and  keeps  impossible  hours.)  Ernest  went  straight  to  her  apartment  from  his  studio  and  got  there  a  little  after  six,  in  time  to  put  out  the  potato  chips  and  make  a  clam  dip  and  chill  the  double  Old-Fashioned  glasses  for  their  Mar-  tinis-on-the-rocks  before  Maggie  got  home.  (He's  a  free-lance  commercial  artist  and  his  hours  are  pretty  much  h's  own.)  But  Maggie  didn't  come  home,  and  at  halfpast  seven  he  put  what  was  left  of  the  chips  back  in  their  bag,  covered  the  clam  dip  and  put  it  in  the  refrigerator,  and  made  himself,  fi-  nally,  a  Martini.  Ernest  doesn't  like  to  drink  alone-it  usually  depresses  him-  but  these  long  waits  for  Maggie  give  him  a  thirst.  At  eight  or  so,  after  a  second  Martini,  he  went  out  to  the  counter  restaurant  a  block  away  for  a  hamburger  and  French  fries,  knowing  that  when  Maggie  is  this  late  she  will  not  be  back  in  time  for  dinner  or  want  more  than  a  bowl  of  soup  when  she  comes  in.  On  the  way  up  to  the  apart-  ment  just  now,  he  bought  two  bunches  of  daisies  at  the  flower  stand  on  the  corner.  The  flowers  will  be  a  distrac-  tion.  When  Maggie  gets  home,  she  will  be  angry-at  whomever  she's  been  with  or  at  the  cabdriver  or  at  Ernest.  Drink-  ing  after  a  point  puts  her  in  a  rage.  But  when  he  gives  her  the  flowers  she  will  cry,  &quot;Oh,  Ernest,  they're  lovely!&quot;  in  her  boozy,  theatrical  voice,  and  then  she  will  go  into  the  kitchen  and  arrange  them,  filling  the  Chinese  bowl  with  ice  water,  carefully  clipping  the  stems  and  stripping  off  the  lower  leaves.  She  loves  flowers.  Touching  them  calms  her,  no  matter  how  much  she  has  drunk.  After-  ward,  she  will  want  some  soup,  and  after  that  Ernestcan  usually  get  her  to  bed.  The  daisies  are  in  the  refrigerator  now,  and  Ernest  has  settled  down  in  the  living  room  to  wait,  though  he  knows  he  will  not  be  able  to  settle  down.  Why?:  Why  is  it?'?  He  knows  that  any  evening  may  turn  out  like  this  with  Maggie,  and  yet  each  time  he  thinks  that  this  one  may  be  different,  and  only  when  Maggie  is  an  hour  or  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours  late  does  he  acknowledge  to  himself  that  once  more  she  is  out  for  a  good  share  ofthe  night.  Now  and  then  she  will  show  up  on  time.  &quot;Surprise,  surprise!&quot;  she  will  cry.  &quot;It's  me!&quot;  But  usually  it  is  like  this.  He  ought  to  know  better,  and  yet  again  and  again  he  will  take  her  at  her  word,  for  again  and  again  in  the  morning  when  they've  just  got  up  and  are  hung  over  and  remorseful  and  sane  she  will  give  him  her  word  and  mean  it.  And  he  will  be  there  ear-  ly  to  make  sure  he  can  hand  her  a  Martini  as  she  walks  in  the  door.  And  then  he  will  wait  and  he  will  grow  anxious,  though  he  knows  better  than  to  be  anxious,  and  slowly,  slowly,  as  it  is  doing  now,  his  anxiety  will  rise.  Each  time,  too,  he  will  wait  as  he  is  waiting  tonight  for  the  phone  to  ring,  though  Maggie  rarely  calls-only  of-  ten  enough  for  him  to  think  it  possible.  Tonight,  because  they  have  not  eaten  a  decent  meal  for  days  and  were  really  looking  forward  to  it  this  morning--  to  the  baked  fish  in  white  sauce  and  the  Chablis-he  honestly  thinksshe  may  be  working  late  and  will  call.  But  no  one  at  all  has  called,  which  is  strange,  be-  cause  usually  people  call  on  Fridays  to  see  what's  on  for  the  weekend,  or  Maggie's  mother  calls  from  Darien.  The  phone  hasn't  rung  once.  Now  Ernest  picks  it  up  to  make  sure  there's  a  dial  tone,  and  a  few  moments  later,  just  to  make  certain  the  thing  is  working,  he  dials  weather.  It  is  the  operator  with  a  voice  like  Mae  [REDACTED]'s  and  he  lis-  tens  to  the  report  three  times.  He  is  even  more  anxious  than  usual-almost  ready,  after  hear-  ing  the  recorded  voice  of  that  operator,  tocall  someone,  his  father  in  [REDACTED]  or  an  old  girl  friend,  justto  hear  a  voice  he  knows.  But  what  if  he  does  and  Maggie  is  trying  to  call  him?  What  if  she  has  tried  already  when  he  was  on  the  phone?  Though  that's  hardly  likely.  His  nerves  are  getting  the  better  of  him,  he  thinks.  He  feels  him-  self  slipping  out  of  control.  He  knows  he's  being  neurotic,  but  where  is  she?  Where  in  hell  can  she  be?  But  he  knows  where  she  is,  even  if  he  doesn't  know  exactly  where.  She's  in  a  bar-a  hotel  bar,  probably.  By  now,  whomever  she  is  with  will  be  trying  to     get  her  out  ofthe  bar  and  into  bed,  and  although  Ernest  knows  she  isn't  likely  to  get  into  bed  with  anyone  un-  less  she  is  blind  drunk,  he  also  knows  that  once  he  lets  himself  imagine  Mag-  gie  in  bed  with  another  man-once  the  picture  of  her  copulating  with  another  is  in  his  mind-he  will  have  no  peace  until  she  comeshome.  Oh,  where  is  she?  He  doesn't  mind  the  waiting,  not  really-only  that  it  turns  him  into  a  jealous  fool.  And  it  is  only  nine  o'clock-well,  by  now  it  is  half  past-and  he  may  have  a  good  three  hours  to  go.  Time  for  him  to  take  a  firm  grip.  Time  to  turn  on  the  tube.  He  flicks  the  channel  selector,  but  there  is  nothing  he  can  bear  watching.  He  makes  himself  a  drink-a  Scotch  this  time.  He  feels  safer  on  Scotch.  E  can  get  away  whenever  he  wants  to,  after  all.  Right  now,  if  that's  what  he  wants.  All  he  has  to  do  is  go-he's  done  it  before.  And  this  time  he  will  leave  the  keys  to  the  apart-  ment  behind  him.  He's  worked  it  all  out  in  his  mind.  Then,  if  he  and  Maggie  make  up,  he  will  not  take  the  keys  again,  and  when  they  go  out  he  will  call  for  Maggie  at  areasonable  hour-late  enough  to  let  her  have  her  drink  with  someone,  if  that's  what  she  wants.  Eight-thirty  or  nine,  say.  A  civilized  hour.  And  then  if  she  isn't  there  he  can  leave  and  that  will  be  that.  As  it  is,  she  Zmows  he  is  waiting  for  her,  and  if  someone  says  let's  have  one  more-well,  why  not?  She  always  means  to  make  it  just  one  drink  after  work,  and  it's  knowing  that  Ernest  is  at  home  waiting  for  her  that  lets  her  stretch  it  to  two,  or  three,  orfour  drinks-by  which  time  she's  too  far  gone  to  care.  But  he  won't  leave.  Not  tonight.  How  can  he?  They've  been  through  too  much  together  by  now.  He  loves  her.  He  knows  she  needs  to  be  sure  he  is  there  waiting  for  her.  And  it  was  much  worse  at  first.  Then,  before  she  had  a  job,  in  her  unem-  ployable  days,  she  could  go  out  in  the  afternoon  for  a  drink,  miss  her  date  with  him,  and  not  turn  up  for  a  week.  They  are  both  more  stable  now.  And  she  needs  him.  She  has  to  know  he  will  be  there.  Everyone  else  in  her  life  has  let  her  down.  Her  mother  and  father,  and  her  husband,  Nat,  and  the  lovers  she  has  had  since  Nat  divorced  her  and  took  custody  of  the  children.  Besides,  Ernest  has  tried  to  break  away.  They've  split  up  five  times  in  two  years.  But  when  " b"36  they  are  together  they  feel  things-at  least,  sometimes-and  sepa-  rated  they  both  go  dead.  Really  dead.  Into  lives  without  life  or  res-  onance,  into  separate  rooms  with  walls  and  floor  and  ceiling  of  cot-  ton  batting.  Into  cells.  And  then  Maggie  will  phone  or  he  will  phone,  and  when  he  hears  her  voice-&quot;Ernest?  Is  that  you?&quot;-he  will  run  right  back.  Literal-  ly  run.  His  studio  is  on  the  top  floor  of  a  tenement  only  four  blocks  away.  If  heever  intends  to  leave  Maggie  for  good,  he  will  have  to  move  to  another  partof  the  city  and  get  an  unlisted  phone.  Once,  Ernest  thought  there  must  be  something  he  could  really  do  for  Maggie.  There  isn't.  All  he  can  do  is  make  things  easier  forher,  which  is  more  than  anyone  else  has  been  able  to  do.  Her  wounds  go  too  deep.  She  ex-  ploits  him,  of  course,  but  aren't  we  put  here  on  this  earth  to  bear  each  other's  burdens?  Does  that  mean  Maggie  has  to  learn  how  to  bear  Ais  before  he  be-  gins  to  bear  hers?  When  he  first  met  her,  on  almost  the  first  night  they  spent  together,  she  said  to  him  in  her  theatrical  way,  &quot;I'm  a  bitch,  Ernest.  I'm  supposed  to  be  one  of  the  ten  worst  bitches  in  New  York.  Pl  hurt  you.&quot;  But  she  has  never  hurt  him,  not  delib-  erately.  At  least,  he  doesn't  think  so.  She  doesn't  mean  to  torment  him,  if  &quot;torment&quot;  is  the  right  word  when  he  suffers  no  pain  in  the  flesh.  And  he  knows  that  none  of  his  suffering  is  quite  serious  or  real.  Maggie  will  turn  up  sooner  or  later,  and  they  may  quarrel,  but  everything  will  turn  out  all  right  and  she  will  fall  asleep  in  his  arms.  Ernest  makes  himself  another  Scotch  and  walks  to  the  window  to  look  down  at  the  street,  half  thinking  he  may  see  Maggie  getting  out  of  a  cab.  At  times,  acting  on  premonition,  he  has  walked  to  the  window  and  seen  just  that.  It  is  ten  by  now.  There  are  few  cars  in  sight.  He  goes  into  the  kitchen,  puts  the  dirty  breakfast  dishes  in  the  sink,  squirts  Joy  on  them,  and  fills  the  sink  with  hot  water.  The  curious  part  of  it  all,  he  thinks  as  he  does  the  dishes,  is  that  he  and  Maggie,  close  as  they  are,  have  never  been  really  involved.  Not,  at  any  rate,  as  he  thinks  true  lovers  must  be.  It  isn't  involvement  with  Maggie  but  simply  that  they  know  each  other    through  and  through.  Each  knows  what  the  other  is  going  to  do  next,  and  accepts  it,  and  comes  back  for  more.  God.  If  they  were  really  involved,  if  what  they  did  to  each  other  had  serious  consequences,  wouldn't  this  life  have  broken  their  hearts'  There  is  some-  thing  thin  about  both  their  pains  and  their  pleasures-some  pretense.  His  pain,  waiting  for  Maggie,  is  mock  pain,  the  kind  you  can  half  enjoy  because  you  know  it  will  not  last.  Ernest  re-  members  playing  a  game  they  called  Tarzan  in  the  woods  behind  his  house,  when  he  was  younger  andweaker  than  the  rest.  He  would  be  tied  by  his  wrists  to  the  branch  of  a  tree  that,  when  it  sprang  up,  lifted  him  nearly  off  the  ground.  It  hurt,  and  he  was  frightened  each  time,  but  his  older  brother,  Charles,  would  be  in  the  game,  too,  and  Ernest  knew  that  all  he  had  to  do  was  be  patient  until  he  was  set  free.  He  would  wait  quietly,  his  shoulders  almost  out  of  their  sockets,  for  Charles  to  untie  him.  Once,  before  Charles  came  back  for  him,  he  fainted  from  the  pain.  It  isn't  the  pain  he  remembers  now  or  the  fear;  itis  the  excitement  of  waiting  for  Charles,  of  anticipating  his  release,  of  seeing  Charles,  his  savior,  slinking  toward  him  through  the  trees  How  much  more  real  that  game  was  than  this!  There  is  no  real  pain  now.  Maggie  cannot  really  harm  him,  or  really  save  him.  Nor  canhe  save  her.  The  dishes  washed,  Ernest  lies  down  on  the  living-room  sofa.  He  may  bea  fool,  he  thinks,  but  he  is  not  the  kind  of  fool  people  say  he  is.  He  isn't  being  victimized.  His  feelings  aren't  his  to  control,  that's  the  trouble.  Even  at  thirty-six  he  can't  handle  them.  But  then  how  little  experience  he  has  had!  He  felt  nothing  at  all-except  in  mov-  ies,  sometimes-for  years.  With  Mag-  gie,  he  has  been  reborn.  Though  it  is  no  more  than  infatua-  tion.  He  knows  that.  Aren't  they  both  acting  as  if  they  were  bewitched?  This  SEPTEMBER  6,  19  69  playing  the  same  melo-  drama  of  betrayal  and  forgiveness  over  again  and  again!  Isn't  it  like  being  under  a  spell?  He  once  believed  in  magic,  in  spells.  So  did  Maggic.  He  once  be-  lieved  in  the  divine  wrath,  when  it  comes  to  that.  What  if  all  this  is  a  punishment  visited  upon  him  for  not  lov-  ing  Paula,  his  wife,  and  upon  Maggie  for  not  loving  Nat  and  her  children?  What  if  he  and  Maggie  are  condemned  to  go  through  this  bitter,  unreal  suffering,  over  and  over  again?  It  is  easier  for  him  to  see  Maggie  than  to  see  himself,  and  it  seems  to  him  that  she  is  com-  pelled  to  defy  him  and  to  hurt  him  in  little  ways,  to  taunt  him  to  the  point  of  leaving  her,  even  though  she  is  ter-  rifled  of  his  leaving  and  of  being  left  alone.  Sometimes  he  thinks  she  wants  him  to  be  cruel  to  her,  to  give  her  pain.  Though  he  has  struck  her  only  once  that  he  can  remember,  they  have  fights  sometimes-passionate,  violent  ones-  in  which  the  voices  that  issue  from  their  throats  seem  not  their  own  but  those  of  strangers.  Maggie's  becomes  harsh  and  arrogant,  his  a  whining  child's.  And  through  all  the  screaming  and  the  imprecations  they  both  keep  calm  and  dry-eyed,  as  if  they  were  no  more  than  observers  of  the  battle.  And  then  they  will  listen  to  Puccini  or  Ravel  or  Rach-  maninoff  and,  overcome  by  feeling  for  each  other  and  for  themselves,  they  will  cry.  Or  something  in  them  will  cry.  Through  it  all  they  remain  detached  in  some  way,  he  thinks.  It  frightens  him,  for  it  is  as  if  they  were  possessed  by  devils.  Maggie  was  born  a  Catholic,  Ernest  a  Lutheran;  there  is  a  picture  of  hellfire  planted  deep  in  their  heads,  along  with  the  notion  that  marriage  is  a  sacrament  performed  once  and  for  all.  In  this  day  and  age?  He  to  Paula,  God  help  him?  Maggie,  God  help  her,  to  Nat?  But  what  ifit  is  true,  Ernest  thinks,  that  he  and  Maggie  can  only  play  at  being  lovers?  What  if  one  gets  only  a  single  chance?  &quot;How  can  you  tell  me  you  love  [REDACTED];  Maggie  has  cried  more  than  once  in  that  harsh  voice  that  is  not  her  own.  &quot;What's  left  to  love?  I'm  a  basket  case.  I'm  damaged  goods.  What  do  you  want  to  do?  Save  met  Do  you  think  you're  God?&quot;  And  then  she  will  throw  him  out  of  the  house.  She  often  throws  him  out  of  the  house,  and  he  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  will  go,  holding  in  his  anger,  careful  not  to  leave  cruel  words  hanging  be-  hind  him  in  the  air  of  the  room.  &quot;I  love  you,&quot;  he  will  call,  and  quickly  close  the  door.  Sometimes  he  will  go  back  to  the  studio,  but  usually  he  will  walk  around  the  block  and  return.  The  chain  will  be  on  the  door,  and  he  will  call  through  the  crack  until  Maggie  lets  him  in.  She  will  be  sitting  in  the  kitchen  wear-  ing  Nat's  old  maroon  bathrobe  and  drinking  straight  Scotch.  They  will  embrace  after  a  time.  If  they  are  not  too  drunk  by  then,  they  will  make  love,  and  it  will  seem  to  Ernest  that  they  are  really  touching,  flesh  to  flesh.  At  times,  he  is  certain  that  Maggie  is  possessed-when  she  hears  voices,  or  sees  figures  looming  above  their  bed,  or  when  she  talks  to  thecat  and  the  cat  seems  to  talk  back.  And  there  was  once  when,  naked  and  screaming,  she  pursued  him  down  the  hall  to  the  door  of  the  apartment  and  frightened  him  into  turning  on  her,  crossing  himself,  and  raising  one  arm  pointed  straight  at  her  with  two  fingers  of  his  hand  spread  out,  extended  in  the  sign  to  ward  off  the  evil  eye.  She  cursed  at  him  and  spat  and  cowered  back,  hands  crossed  over  her  groin,  trying  to  cover  her  nakedness.  &quot;You  know  the  sign,  do  you?&quot;  she  said  in  a  flat  voice.  &quot;Get  out.  Get  out.  Get  out.&quot;  He  went  back  to  the  studio  shivering-it  was  winter,  and  he  left  his  coat  behind-and  re-  citing  Hail  Marys,  words  he  did  not  know  he  knew.  The  next  morning  he  called-&quot;I  think  I  forgot  my  coat,&quot;  he  said-and  went  over  for  breakfast.  The  storm  had  passed.  Maggie  remem-  bered  nothing,  and  it  was  as  if  nothing  had  happened  at  all.  Oh,  we  love  each  other,  all  right,  Ernest  thinks.  Why  try  to  analyze  it  away?  How  rare  the  bad  scenes  have  been,  after  all.  The  worst  is  this  anx-  ious  waiting,  and  even  that  is  not  so  bad.  Sometimes  he  thinks  that  if  he  had  nothing,  nothing  at  all,  to  be  anxious  about  he  would  explode.  Perhaps  he  stays  with  Maggie  because  of  that,  be-  cause  she  gives  him  something  to  be  anxious  over  and  releases  him  at  the  end.  It's  on  the  days  after  nights  like  this  that  he  feels  best  and  does  his  best  work.  It  excites  him  to  wait  for  her.  Why  would  he  do  it  if  he  didn't  like  it?  She  fills  his  mind.  He  is  more  aware  of  her  now  thanhe  can  be  when  she  is  there  beside  him-more  excited  by  her.  It  is  exciting,  waiting  for  her  and  imagining  where  she  may  be.  He  has  tried  not  to-but  what  if,  right  now,  he  lets  his  imagination  go.  She  is  probablydrinking  with  Fred  What's-His-  Name,  he  knows  that.  They  have  been  working  off  and  on  for  the  past  two  months  on  a  pilot  for  one  of  Fred's  clients.  Maggie  has  talked  about  him.  They  have  had  drinks  before.  &quot;He's  no  threat,  Ernest,&quot;  she  has  said.  &quot;He's  gay.&quot;  But  how  can  he  be  sure  Fred  is  entirely  gay?  Ernest  has  met  him,  at  a  party  full  of  men  who  were-they  were  dancing,  doing  those  Campy  tangos,  all  of  that-but  Fred  was  with  a  girl.  Though  she  was  the  cold  sort  you'd  expect  him  to  be  with  if  he  was  gay.  Fred  and  the  girl  didn't  stay  long.  Fred  looked  attractive  but  ruined.  What  if  he  were  trying  to  go  straight?  Ernest  knew  a  woman  who  told  him  the  most  proficient  lover  she'd  ever  had  was  gay.  What  if  Maggie  de-  cided  after  three  drinks  she  could  help  straighten  Fred  out?  He  lives  in  the  Forties;  it  would  be  easy  to  go  to  his  place.  Why  not?  And  then  ..  .  But  this  is  all  so  unlikely,  Ernest  thinks.  Maggie  never  lets  herself  go  that  far,  or  if  she  does  and  sleeps  with  anyone  else  it's  a  mistake.  Literally  a  mistake.  She  has  to  be  drunk  enough  to  think  it's  him.  He  remembers  coming  up  to  the  apartment  one  Saturday  afternoon  after  she  had  been  shopping  with  a  visiting  client  from  [REDACTED],  buying  presents  for  his  wife  and  children.  She  answered  the  door  weeping,  her  hair  in  her  eyes,  her  dress  torn.  &quot;He  raped  me,&quot;  she  sobbed.  &quot;The  bastard  reped  me.  I  thought  it  was  you.&quot;  Ah,  it  is  true,  The  waiting  makes  her  more  real.  He  wants  her  now.  Where  is  she?  In  Fred's  arms?!  Under  him?  Too  drunk  to  know  what  she  is  doing?  Thinking  that  faggot  is  m/?  How  strange  she  is,  Ernest  thinks.  Terrified  of  rape,  she  says,  and  yet  she  wears  no  more  than  those  little  dresses,     37  and  in  the  summer  hardly  anything  else  at  all.  &quot;I  remember  when  I  was  young,&quot;  she  will  say.  &quot;Can  you  believe  it'  Without  a  girdle,  I  used  to  feel  naked.&quot;  And  when  passion  does  strike  her  it  is  sudden,  like  a  windstorm  off  the  prairie.  It  happens  so  fast  and  is  over  so  fast-hardly  enough  to  call  it  an  act.  A  quick  sigh,  and  that's  all.  Thinking  of  it,  Ernest  remembers  driving  up  a  hill  with  Maggie  in  win-  ter,  in  a  rented  car.  The  road  was  cov-  ered  with  thin  ice  and  the  tires  slipped  back  so  that  they  could  only  inch  up  slowly,  slowly,  waiting,  hoping  they  would  get  to  the  top.  Maggie  could  not  bear  it--the  tension  of  waiting  was  too  great-and  got  out  of  the  car.  He  had  to  come  back  down  for  her  once  he'd  reached  the  top,  sliding  on  foot  down  the  hill.  Pines  on  either  side,  light  snow  on  the  road,  the  sky  clear  and  blue,  an  inn  at  the  top  of  the  hill  where,  finally,  they  sat  and  drank.  Maggie  could  never  bear  waiting,  or  slow  love.  Ernest  makes  himself  a  cup  of  cof-  fee.  Now  it  is  half  past  ten.  Maggie  will  be  back  before  long,  and  he  wants  his  mind  to  be  clear.  Another  drink  could  put  him  in  a  jealous  rage.  God  knows,  he  thinks,  we  both  take  some  strange  pleasure  in  this.  He  hopes  the  pleasure  does  not  spoil;  it  did  with  his  wife.  When  she  called  the  other  day  about  the  alimony  check  he'd  forgotten  to  send,  he  told  her  more  about  his  life  with  Maggie  than  he  meant  to.  He  usually  does.  &quot;Does  it  ever  occur  to  you  that  you  and  Maggie  have  interlocking  neuroses?&quot;  Paula  said.  Occur  to  him?  How  else-why  else-do  people  get  together  in  this  vale  of  tears!  What  else  binds  people  to-  gether  at  all?  That  and  blood,  and  " b"38  loyalty  sometimes.  Isn't  it  worth  it?  I  need  someone  to  wait  for,  Ernest  thinks,  and  I  need  to  know  she  will  return.  With  Paula,  he  was  never  sure  she  would  return.  And  Paula  is  hard.  Maggie  has  never  come  to  terms  with  the  world,  and  she  is  innocent  and  vulnerable.  Maggie's  vulnerability  is  what  makes  it  so  difficult,  for  Ernest  knows  that  someday  he  will  have  to  leave  her  for  good-go  beyond  her,  beyond  these  games  and  this  waiting.  He  will  have  to  begin  to  change.  &quot;You  think  life  is  a  [REDACTED]  play,&quot;  he  has  said  to  Maggie.  &quot;For  you,  the  charac-  ters  never  change;  they  go  through  their  paces,  that's  all.  But  life  is  a  novel.  It  has  tobe.  People  have  to  change.&quot;  &quot;People  don't  change,&quot;  Maggie  has  said  to  him.  &quot;Only  characters  in  novels.&quot;  But  there  is  change,  Ernest  thinks,  if  there  is  life.  ITTING  in  the  kitchen  now,  Er-  nest  makes  himself  another  cup  of  coffee.  Waiting!  he  thinks.  Lord,  how  they  were  made  to  wait,  he  and  his  brother,  by  the  women  in  the  fam-  ily,  their  grandmother  and  their  aunts.  Charles,  less  patient  than  he,  had  a  sharper  tongue,  but  he  was  intimidated  by  those  women,  too.  &quot;Wait  here,  children,&quot;  Grandmother  would  say.  &quot;Wait  right  here.  I'll  only  be  a  min-  ute,&quot;  And  Charles,  smirking  and  rais-  ing  his  eyebrows,  would  whisper,  &quot;That  means  at  least  an  hour.&quot;  &quot;Wait  in  the  car.  I'll  be  right  back,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Oh,  mercy,  I  forgot  my  purse,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Run  in,  Charles,  and  get  it  like  a  good  boy.  No.  No.  1d  bet-  ter  get  it  myself.  You  children  wait.&quot;  &quot;Wait  till  your  grandmother  starts  eating,  Ernest.  Put  that  fork  down.&quot;  &quot;No,  you  may  sot  be  excused.  You  sit  right  there  until  everybody  else  has  finished  his  dessert.&quot;  What  tyrants  they  were!  And  if  you  made  them  wait!  If  you  were  five  minutes  late  for  dinner  or  dawdled  in  the  bath  on  Sunday  before  church!  Ah,  those  Sundays  of  waiting!  Sitting  in  Sunday  school.  Sitting  in  church.  Waiting  for  Sunday  dinner  until  all  the  folks  had  arrived.  Sitting  in  the  car  during  Grandma's  Sunday  drive.  Wait-  ing  through  the  long  afternoon,  when  all  he  and  Charles  were  permitted  was  quiet  play.  Waiting  for  supper.  Wait-  ing  for  the  popcorn  after  supper.  Going  to  bed  not  tired  enough  for  sleep  and  waiting  for  sleep.  No  wonder  he  and  Charles  had  Sunday  headaches  to  this  day.  Shopping  with  their  grandmother   was  the  worst.  &quot;Just  a  few  more  min-  utes,  children.  Grandma  has  to  buy  a  few  more  things.&quot;  Has  to  buy!  As  if  duty  and  nothing  else  impelled  her  to  try  on  those  frocks!  He  and  Charles  would  sit  in  the  mahogany-panelled  la-  dies'  waiting  room  on  a  bench  without  cushions  that  stood  against  the  wall  next  to  the  bathroom  and  not  far  from  the  store's  cashier.  Money  and  sales  slips  came  to  her  cage  from  every  floor  through  tubes  that  ran  in  a  cluster  near  the  ceiling.  Blackstone's  was  the  largest  department  store  in  southern  [REDACTED],  seven  stories  high.  Cartridges  dropped  into  a  basket  inside  the  cage.  Whoosh,  then  thup.  Whoosh-whoosh.  Thup.  Thup.  Call  bells  rang.  Ping.  Pause.  Ping.  Pause.  Ping  ping.  Smell  of  furni-  ture  oil  and  lilac  disinfectant.  The  faint  rush  of  water  in  the  toilets.  And  the  women.  Out  they  stepped,  out  of  the  elevators,  out  the  ladies'-room  door.  Swish  of  skirts.  Swish  of  stockings  on  heavy  thighs.  Plump  [REDACTED]  farm  women.  He  and  Charles  would  discuss,  giggling,  what  they  must  look  like  " b"  when  they  took  off  their  clothes.  Like  the  ladies  on  the  girdle  pages  in  the  Sears  catalogue?  Like  Grandma?  But  she  was  all  skin  and  bones.  Ernest  re-  members  seeing  her  in  her  corset  one  day,  seeing  her  brown  leathery  flesh.  Why  was  she  so  brown?  Was  that  why  she  ordered  those  creams  all  the  way  from  Marshall  Field's  in  [REDACTED]?  Was  she  trying  to  make  her  skin  lighter  than  it  was?  He  and  Charles  discussed  these  things  without  passion-unless  their  dry,  insistent  curiosity  had  passion--  and  never  talked  about  them  much  ex-  cept  when  they  were  waiting  on  that  hard  bench,  waiting,  waiting,  having  to  keep  still  and  with  nothing,  really  nothing  at  all,  to  do.  Then  a  louder  bell  than  the  call  bells  would  ring,  and  it  would  mean  there  was  orly  half  an  hour  until  closing,  and  then  the  fifteen-  minute  bell  rang,  and  finally  their  grandmother  would  come  and  they  would  leave  the  store  on  the  last  ele-  vator,  going  out  to  the  parking  lot  past  men  waiting  to  lock  the  doors  behind  them.  And  then  their  grandmother  would  drive  the  fifty  miles  home  while  they  sat  in  the  back  of  the  car,  waiting  to  be  out  of  there  and  free.  Then  Charles  was  in  long  trousers  and  allowed  to  stay  behind  while  Er-  nest  went  with  his  grandmother  to  Blackstone's  alone,  and  then  Ernest  was  in  long  trousers,  too.  &quot;My  baby's  growing  up,&quot;  his  grandmother  had  said  when  she  saw  him.  She  had  pretended  to  cry,  and  then  she  had  really  cried.  She  had  taken  the  boys  from  their  fa-  ther  after  their  mother  died.  Wasn't  she  better  qualified  to  bring  up  children  &amp;  bd  after  raising  five  of  her  own?  But  she  hadn't  wanted  them,  she  wanted  her  daughter  back,  and  what  she  saw  in  her  grandsons  were  remembrances  of  their  mother-fragments  and  vestiges  she  did  her  best  to  preserve.  &quot;That's  just  what  Mary  would  do,&quot;  she  would  say  as  she  watched  Charles  open  a  Christ-  mas  present,  unloosening  the  knot  in-  stead  of  breaking  the  cord,  folding  the  paper  neatly.  Or  she  would  say  to  Er-  nest,  &quot;You  were  sleeping  the  way  your  mother  did  when  I  tucked  you  in  last  night.&quot;  Sometimes,  when  they  sat  in  the  living  room  in  the  evening  after  dinner,  Ernest  would  look  up  and  see  his  grandmother  staring  at  him  or  at  Charles,  staring  through  them  at  some-  thing  in  the  past  before  they  were  born.  It  was  an  cerie  feeling.  As  if  they  were  expected  to  become  their  mother,  as  if  they  were  only  real  when  they  were  like  her.  No  wonder  Charles  had  turned  queer.  The  wonder  was  that  he,  Ernest,  hadn't  joined  him.  And  their  father-when  they  saw  him,  which  wasn't  often-was  no  help.  He  expected  the  same.  Half  their  blood  was  their  mother's  and  that  was  the  half  he  wanted  to  see.  He  liked  them  studious  and  gentle  and  they  had  complied.  Ernest  turned  out  to  be  the  image  of  his  mother,  and  how  they  had  spoiled  him!  Dolling  him  up,  slicking  down  his  hair!  Charles,  feeling  ignored,  began  to  grow  bitter  and  mean,  while  Ernest  be-  came  everyone's  darling.  And  he  was  to  be  preserved.  He  was  to  take  no  risks.  He  could  not  ride  bicycles  or  swim  or  skate  on  the  river  ice  or  have  a  dog.  Dogs  got  rabies.  He  was  to  stay  alive.  They  brought  him  up,  Ernestcan  see  now,  as  if  he  were  a  girl,  Those  fantasies  he  had  of  being  transformed  into  a  beautiful  princess!  Never  into  a  prince.  He  knew  that  he  was  a  boy  and  that  he  would  have  to  grow  up  to  be  a  man,  and  he  half  resented  it.  His  soul  was  female,  trapped  in  aboy's  body.  Even  now,  when  Ernest  remembers  his  fantasies,  his  body  warms  and  an  easy  lassitude  begins  to  overcome  him,  like  what  he  occasionally  feels  after  making  love.  Perhaps  that  is  why  he  sometimes  has  the  notion  after  making  love  with  Maggie  that  they  have  each  taken  on  the  sex  of  the  other  for  a  moment  and  have  become  whole  and  at  peace.  And  his  later  fantasies  were  never  of  seduc-  ing  women  and  conquering  them  but  of  rescuing  them,  of  being  near  them,  hearing  their  talk,  seeing  them  dress  and  make  up,  touching  them,  touching  their  clothes,  smelling  their  perfumes.  He  remembers  his  aunts'  closets,  re-  members  sitting  in  them,  remembers  trying  on  their  clothes.  ...  He  has  still,  he  thinks,  a  feminine  soul,  Of  course  he  doesn't  mind  waiting.  He  waits  as  a  woman  waits,  to  be  filled.  But  now  there  comes  to  him  the  memory  of  waiting  for  his  father,  whom  hedoes  not  love,  on  those  week-  ends  not  long  after  his  mother's  death  when  his  father  drove  down  from  Chi-  cago  to  visit  his  sons.  It  was  Ernest  who  waited  and  not  Charles.  Charles  was  nine  and  had  a  life  of  his  own.  Ernest  was  five.  He  would  wait  quietly  through  the  long  Saturday  afternoons,  sitting  on  the  concrete  steps  outside  his  grandmother's  house,  waiting  for  his  " b"40  father's  green  Chevrolet.  On  the  porch  was  a  creaking  swing,  painted  dark  gray,  that  hung  from  hooks  in  the  light-gray  ceiling.  Its  motion  made  Ernest's  head  ache,  and  he  never  sat  in  it  long.  He  preferred  the  steps  and  sat  there,  shaded  by  the  catalpa  trees  on  each  side  of  the  walk,  looking  for  his  father's  car,  trying  to  discover  it  com-  ing  far  down  the  road,  knowing  that  it  would  not  appear  before  dinnertime  but  waiting  there  from  three  o'clock  on,  unable  to  do  anything  but  wait.  And  then  his  father  would  arrive  and  there  would  be  presents  and  a  quick  hug,  and  that  night  he  and  his  father  would  sleep  in  the  same  bed.  His  father  would  snore  and  Ernest  would  lie  awake  listening  to  the  snor-  ing.  His  father  wore  brown  pajamas  with  yellow  frogs  and  a  Chinese  char-  acter  on  the  pocket  that  stood,  his  fa-  ther  said,  for  either  &quot;Long  Life&quot;  or  &quot;Happiness.&quot;  His  father  smelled  of  cigarettes  and  Listerine  and  Lifebuoy  soap,  and  in  the  morning  he  would     v  Ap  tt  \xc2\xabBe  &quot;al  sin  cll  S  shave  with  his  electric  razor.  His  silver  pen  and  pencil  and  his  leather  wallet  and  his  notebook  would  be  on  Ernest's  dresser.  The  electric  alarm  clock  his  father  brought  would  wake  them  early,  so  that  his  father  could  play  golf  before  church  on  the  nine-hole  course  south  of  town.  Charles  would  go  with  him  around  the  course  and  Ernest  would  wait  for  them  at  home,  wait  for  the  moment  when  his  father  returned,  smelling  a  little  of  whiskey  and  sweat,  and  lifted  him  up  in  his  arms  and  rubbed  his  cheek,  scratchy  in  spite  of  his  shaving,  against  Ernest's  own.  And  how  much  waiting  there  has  been  after  that!  Waiting  to  grow  up,  waiting  to  go  to  college,  waiting  to  leave  [REDACTED]  for  good,  waiting  to  get  out  ofthe  Army,  waiting  to  live  in  New  York  City,  waiting  to  feel  love,  waiting  ...  How  weak  it  makes  him  sound.  Ernest  knows  it.  Only  the  weak  have  to  wait.  Waiting  is  the  penalty  in-  flicted  upon  the  weak  by  the  strong.     But  it  is  hardly  a  harsh  penalty,  Ernest  thinks.  He,  waiting,  is  happier  than  Maggie,  who  has  made  him  wait.  Wherever  she  is,  he  knows  that  by  now-it  is  going  on  twelve-she  would  rather  be  at  home  withhim.  Waiting,  he  escapes  from  time  in  a  way.  It  no  longer  passes  so  quickly  but  hangs  heavy,  making  him  a  present  of  itself.  One  hour  becomes  three,  and  his  life,  spent  largely  in  waiting,  seems  end-  lessly  long.  What  arethe  times  of  waiting?  Why,  adolescence,  when  one  waits  for  freedom  and  for  love,  and  old  age,  when  one  waits  for  death.  The  experts  in  waiting,  Ernest  thinks,  are  theold  and  those  who,  like  himself,  have  never  left  adolescence  behind,  who  were  never  led  out  of  it  and  into  the  world.  They  can  wait  with  something  like  patience,  openly  and  without  shame,  because  they  have  nothing  in  particular  to  do.  There  was  no  one  to  take  him  out  of  his  adolescence  in  that  house  full  of  women-his  father,  by  the  time  Ernest  was  ready,  had  given  up  try-  ing-and  no  one  to  introduce  him  to  the  world.  He  has  had  to  become  his  own  guide.  He  is  awkward  and  lazy  at  it  still,  and  he  knows  it,  but  he  will  find  his  way  out  of  this  prison  in  time.  He  believes  that,  and  knows  he  is  in  a  prison.  He  does  not  intend  to  spend  all  his  life  waiting.  Though  he  may  love  her-if  it  is  love-he  knows  he  will  leave  Maggie  behind.  But  not  yet.  The  doorbell  rings,  and  Ernest  goes  to  the  refrigerator  for  the  daisies.  When  he  comes  out  of  the  kitchen,  he  sees  that  Maggie  has  already  let  herself  in  and  is  standing  stock-still  in  the  hallway,  feet  apart,  her  shoes  and  bag  in  her  hands,  her  coat  on  the  floor  at  her  feet.  &quot;That  bastard,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;That  bastard.&quot;  &quot;Hey,  Maggie,&quot;  Ernest  says,  hold-  ing  up  the  daisies  before  her.  &quot;Hey.  Look.  I  got  you  some  flowers!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Ernest,  aren't  they  lovely!&quot;  Maggie  says.  She  has  been  beaten.  On  the  left  side  of  her  face  is  a  great  bruise.  Blood  stains  the  collar  of  her  dress.  To  Ernest,  she  is  terrifying  and  beautiful.  Her  eyes  are  bright."