PARAGUAY  HME  upper  part  ofthe  plain  that  we  had  crossed  the  day  before  was  now  white  with  snow,  and  it  was  evident  that  there  was  a  storm  raging  behind  us  and  that  we  had  only  just  crossed  the  Burji  La  in  time  to  es-  cape  it.  We  camped  in  a  slight  hollow  at  Sekbachan,  eighteen  miles  from  Malik  Mar,  the  night  as  still  as  the  previous  one  and  the  temperature  the  same;  it  seemed  as  if  the  Deosat  Plains  were  not  going  to  be  so  formidable  as  they  had  been  described;  but  the  third  day  a  storm  of  hail,  sleet,  and  snow  alternate-  ly  came  at  noon  when  we  began  to  as-  cend  the  Sari  Sangar  Pass,  14,200  feet,  and  continued  with  only  a  few  minutes'  intermission  till  four  o'clock.  The  top  of  the  pass  is  a  fairly  level  valley  con-  taining  two  lakes,  their  shores  formed  of  boulders  that  seemed  impossible  to  ride  over.  The  men  slid  and  stumbled  so  much  that  I  would  not  let  anyone  lead  my  pony  for  fear  of  pulling  him  over;  he  was  old  and  slow  but  per-  fectly  splendid  here,  picking  his  way  among  the  rocks  without  a  falter.  At  the  summit  there  is  a  cairn  on  which  each  man  threw  a  stone,  and  here  it  is  customary  to  give  payment  to  the  cool-  ies.  I  paid  each  man  his  agreed-upon  wage,  and,  alone,  began  the  descent.  Ahead  was  Paraguay.&quot;  WurEre  Paraguay  Is  Thus  I  found  myself  in  a  strange  country.  This  Paraguay  is  not  the  Paraguay  that  exists  on  our  maps.  It  is  not  to  be  found  on  the  continent,  South  [REDACTED];  itis  not  a  political  subdivision  ofthat  continent,  with  a  population  of  2,161,000  and  a  capital  city  named  Asuncion.  This  Paraguay  exists  else-  where.  Now,  moving  toward  the  first  of  the  &quot;silver  cities,&quot;  I  was  tired  but  also  elated  and  alert.  Flights  of  white  meat  moved  through  the  sky  overhead  in  the  directionof  the  dim  piles  of  buildings.  Jean  Murcui\xc2\xaeER  Entering  the  city  I  was  approached,  that  first  day,  by  a  dark  girl  wrapped  in  a  red  shawl.  The  edges  of  the  shawl  were  fringed,  and  the  tip  of  each  strand  of  fringe  was  a  bob  of  silver.  The  girl  at  once  placed  her  hands  on  my  hips,  standing  facing  me;  she  smiled,  and  exerted  a  slight  pull.  I  was  claimed  as  her  guest;  her  name  was  Jean  Mueller.  @&quot;Temiamos  grandes  deseos  de  comocerlo,&quot;  she  said.  I  asked  1  Quoted  from  &quot;A  Summer  Ride  Through  Western  Tibet,&quot;  by  Jane  E.  Duncan,  Collins,  [REDACTED],  1906.  Slightly  altered.  how  she  knew  I  had  arrived  and  she  said,  &quot;Every  one  knows.&quot;&quot;  We  then  pro-  ceeded  to  her  house,  a  large,  modern  structure  some  distance  from  the  cen-  ter  of  the  city;  there  I  was  shown  in-  to  a  room  containing  a  bed,  a  desk,  a  chair,  bookcases,  a  fireplace,  a  hand-  some  piano  in  a  cherrywood  case.  I  was  told  that  when  I  had  rested  I  might  join  her  downstairs  and  might  then  meet  her  husband;  before  leaving  the  room  she  sat  down  before  the  piano  and,  almost  mischievously,  plaved  a  tiny  sonata  of  Bibblemann's.  TEMPERATURE  Temperature  controls  activity  to  a  remarkable  degree.  By  and  large,  adults  here  raise  their  walking  speed  and  show  more  spontaneous  movement  as  the  temperature  rises.  But  the  temperature-  dependent  pattern  of  activity  is  com-  plex.  For  instance,  the  males  move  twice  as  fast  at  60  degrees  as  they  do  at  35  degrees,  but  above  60  degrees  speed  decreases.  The  females  show  more  complicated  behavior:  they  in-  crease  spontaneous  activity  as  the  tem-  perature  rises  from  40  to  48  degrees,  become  less  active  between  49  and66  degrees,  and  above  66  degrees  again  go  into  a  rising  tempo  of  spontaneous  movements  up  to  the  lethal  tempera-  ture  of  77  degrees.  Temperature  also  (here  as  elsewhere)  plays  a  critical  role  in  the  reproductive  process.  In  the  so-called  &quot;silver  cities&quot;  there  is  a  par-  ticular  scale-66,  67,  68,  69  degrees-  at  which  intercourse  occurs  (and  only  within  that  scale).  In  the  &quot;gold&quot;  areas,  the  scale  does  not,  apparently,  apply.  HErxo  MUELLER  Herko  Mueller  walks  through  gold  and  silver  leaves,  awarded,  in  the  sum-  mer  months,  to  those  who  have  pro-  duced  the  best  pastiche  ofthe  emotions.  He  is  smiling  because  he  did  not  win  one  of  these  prizes,  which  the  people  of  Paraguay  seek  to  avoid.  He  is  tall,  brown,  wears  a  funny  short  beard,  and  is  fond  of  zippered  suits  in  brilliant  colors:  yellow,  green,  violet.  He  is,  pro-  fessionally,  an  arbiter  of  comedy.  &quot;A  sort  of  drama  critic?&quot;  &quot;More  what  you  would  term  an  umpire.  The  members  of  the  audience  are  given  a  set  of  rules  and  the  rules  constitute  the  comedy.  Our  comedies  seek  to  reach  the  imagi-  nation.  When  you  are  looking  at  some-  thing,  you  cannot  imagine  it.&quot;  In  the  evenings  I  have  wet  sand  to  walk  upon-long  stretches  of  beach  with  the  sea  tasting  the  edges.  Getting  back  into  my  clothes  after  a  swim,  I  dis-  SEPTEMBER  6,  19  69  covered  a  strange  thing:  a  sand  dollar  under  my  shirt.  It  is  strange  because  this  sand  is  sifted  twice  daily  to  remove  impurities  and  maintain  whiteness.  And  the  sea  itself,  the  New  Sea,  is  not  pro-  grammed  for  echinoderms.  Error  A  government  error  resulting  in  the  death  of  a  statistically  insignificant  por-  tion  of  the  population  (less  than  one-  fortieth  of  one  per  cent)  has  made  peo-  ple  uneasy.  A  skelpof  questions  and  answers  is  fused  at  high  temperature  (1400\xc2\xb0  C)  and  then  passed  through  a  series  of  protracted  caresses.  Ameliora-  tion  of  the  condition  results.  Paraguay  is  not  old.  It  is  new,  a  new  country.  Rough  sketches  suggest  its  &quot;look.&quot;  &gt;  Heavy  yellow  drops  like  pancake  batter  fall  from  its  sky.  I  hold  a  bouquet  of  umbrellas  in  each  hand.  A  phrase  of  Herko  Mueller's:  &quot;Y  un  60%  mestizos:  gloria,  orgullo,  presente  y  futuro  del  Paraguay&quot;  (&quot;...  the  glory,  pride,  present,  and  future  of  Para-  guay&quot;  ).  The  country's  existence  is  &quot;predictive,&quot;  he  says,  and  I  myself  have  noticed  a  sort  of  frontier  ambience.  There  are  problems.  The  problem  of  shedding  skin.  Thin  discarded  shells  like  disposable  plastic  gloves  are  found  in  the  street.  SOM  RaATIONALIZATION  The  problems  of  art.  New  artists  have  been  obtained.  These  do  not  ob-  ject  to,  and  indeed  argue  enthusiastical-  ly  for,  the  rationalization  process.  Pro-  duction  is  up.  Quality-control  devices  have  been  installed  at  those  points  where  the  interests  of  artists  and  audi-  ence  intersect.  Shipping  and  distribu-  tion  have  been  improved  out  of  all  recognition.  (It  is  in  this  area,  they  say  in  Paraguay,  that  traditional  practices  were  most  blameworthy.)  The  ration-  alized  art  is  dispatched  from  central  art  dumps  to  regional  art  dumps,  and  from  there  into  the  life  streams  of  cities.  Each  citizen  is  given  as  much  artas  his  system  can  tolerate.  Marketing  con-  siderations  have  not  been  allowed  to  dictate  product  mix;  rather,  each  artist  is  encouraged  to  maintain,  inhis  soft-  ware,  highly  personal,  even  idiosyn-  cratic,  standards  (the  so-called  &quot;hand  of  the  artist&quot;  concept).  Rationalization  produces  simpler  circuits  and,  therefore,  a  saving  in  hardware.  Each  artist's  product  is  translated  into  a  statement  in  symbolic  logic.  The  statement  is  then  &quot;minimized&quot;  by  various  clever  meth-  ods.  The  simpler  statement  is  translated  back  into  the  design  of  a  simpler  circuit.  Foamed  by  a  number  of  techniques,  the  art  is  then  run  through  heavy  steel  " b'  rollers.  Flip-flop  switches  control  its  further  development.  Sheet  art  is  gen-  erally  dried  in  smoke  and  is  dark  brown  in  color.  Bulk  art  is  air-dried,  and  changes  color  in  particular  histori-  cal  epochs.  SKIN  Ignoring  a  letter  from  the  translator  Jean  sat  on  a  rubber  pad  doing  exer-  cises  designed  to  loosen  the  skin.  Scores  of  diamond-shaped  lights  abraded  her  arms  and  legs.  The  light  placed  a  pat-  tern  of  false  information  in  those  zones  most  susceptible  to  tearing.  Whistling  noises  accompanied  the  lights.  The  proc-  ess  of  removing  the  leg  skin  is  private.  Tenseness  is  eased  by  the  application  of  a  cream,  heavy  yellow  drops  like  pan-  cake  batter.  I  held  several  umbrellas  over  her  legs.  A  man  across  the  street  pretending  not  to  watch  us.  Then  the  skin  placed  in  the  official  receptacles.  Trge  Warr  Our  design  for  the  lift  tower  left  us  with  a  vast  blind  wall  of  im-sitw  con-  crete.  There  was  thus  the  danger  of  having  a  dreary  expanse  of  blankness  in  that  immensely  important  partof  the  building.  A  solution  had  to  be  found.  The  great  wall  space  would  provide  an  opportunity  for  a  gesture  of  thanks  to  the  people  of  Paraguay;  a  stone  would  be  placed  in  front  of  it,  and,  instead  of  standing  in  the  shadows,  the  Stele  of  the  Measures  would  be  brought  there  also.  The  wall  would  be  divided,  by  means  of  softly  worn  paths,  into  doors.  These,  varying  in  size  from  the  very  large  to  the  very  small,  would  have  different  colors  and  thicknesses.  Some  would  open,  some  would  not,  and  this  would  change  from  week  to  week,  or  from  hour  to  hour,  or  in  accord  with  sounds  made  by  people  standing  in  front  of  them.  Long  lines  or  tracks  would  run  from  the  doors  into  the  roaring  public  spaces.&quot;  SILENCE  In  the  larger  stores  silence  (damping  materials)  is  sold  in  paper  sacks  like  cement.  Similarly,  the  softening  of  language  usually  lamented  as  a  falling  off  from  former  practice  is  in  fact  a  clear  response  to  the  proliferation  of  surfaces  and  stimuli.  Imprecise  sen-  tences  lessen  the  strain  of  close  toler-  ances.  Silence  is  also  available  in  the  form  of  white  noise.  The  extension  of  white  noise  to  the  home  by  means  of  leased  wire  from  a  central  generating  point  has  been  useful,  Herko  says.  The  analogous  establishment  of  &quot;white  space&quot;  in  a  system  paralleling  the  exist-  ing  park  system  has  also  been  beneficial.  Anechoic  chambers  placed  randomly  about  the  city  (on  the  model  of  tele-  2  Quoted  from  &quot;The  Modulator,&quot;  by  Le  Cor-  busier,  M.LT.  Press,  [REDACTED],  1954.  Slight-  ly  altered  phone  booths)  are  said  to  have  actually  saved  lives.  Wood  is  becoming  rare.  They  are  now  paying  for  yellow  pine  what  was  formerly  paid  for  rosewood.  Relational  methods  govern  the  layout  of  cities.  Curiously,  in  some  ofthe  most  successful  projects  the  design  has  been  swung  upon  small  collections  of  rare  animals  spaced  (on  the  lost-horse  principle)  on  a  lack  of  grid.  Carefully  calculated  mixes:  mambas,  the  black  wrasse,  the  giselle.  Electrolytic  jelly  exhibiting  a  capture  ratio  far  in  excess  of  standard  is  used  to  fix  the  animals  in  place.  Terror  We  rushed  down  to  the  ends  of  the  waves,  apertures  through  which  threat-  ening  lines  might  be  seen.  Arbiters  registered  serial  numbers  of  the  (com-  plex  of  threats)  with  ticks  on  a  great,  brown  board.  Jean  meanwhile,  unaf-  fected,  was  casting  about  on  the  beach  for  driftwood.  Brown  washed  pieces  of  wood  laced  with  hundreds  of  tiny  hairline  cracks.  Such  is  the  smoothness  of  surfaces  in  Paraguay  that  anything  not  smooth  is  valuable.  She  explains  to  me  that  in  demanding  (and  receiving)  explanations  you  are  once  more  brought  to  a  stop.  You  have  got,  really,  no  farther  than  you  were  before.  &quot;There-  fore  we  try  to  keep  everything  open,  go  forward  avoiding  the  final  explana-  tion.  If  we  inadvertently  receive  it,  we  ' b" are  instructed  to  (1)  pretend  that  it  is  just  another  error,  or  (2)misunder-  stand  it.  Creative  misunderstanding  is  crucial.&quot;  Creation  of  new  categories  of  anxiety  which  must  be  bandaged  or  &quot;patched.&quot;  The  expression  &quot;put  a  patch  on  it.&quot;  There  are  &quot;hot&quot;  and  &quot;cold&quot;  patches,  and  specialists  in  the  application  of  each.  Rhathymia  is  the  preferred  mode  of  presentation  of  the  self.  Tus  TEMPLE  Turning  sharply  to  the  left  I  came  upon,  in  a  grove  of  trees,  a  temple  of  some  sort,  abandoned,  littered  with  empty  boxes,  the  floor  coated  with  a  thin  layer  of  lime.  I  prayed.  Then  drawing  out  my  flask  I  refreshed  my-  self  with  apple  juice.  Everyone  in  Par-  aguay  has  the  same  fingerprints.  There  are  crimes  but  people  chosen  at  random  are  punished  for  them.  Everyone  is  liable  for  everything.  An  extension  of  the  principle,  there  but  for  the  grace    of  God  go  I.  Sexual  life  is  very  free.  There  are  rules  but  these  are  like  the  rules  of  chess,  intended  to  complicate  and  enrich  the  game.  I  made  love  to  Jean  Mueller  while  her  husband  watched.  There  have  been  certain  technical  refinements.  The  procedures  we  use(called  here  \xe2\x80\x9cimpalcment\xe2\x80\x9d)  are  used  in  Paraguay  but  also  new  techniques  I  had  never  before  en-  countered,  &quot;dimidiation&quot;  and  &quot;quarter-  ing.&quot;  These  I  found  very  refreshing.  MICROMINIATURIZATION  Microminiaturization  leaves  enor-  mous  spaces  to  be  filled.  Disposability  of  the  physical  surround  has  psychologi-  cal  consequences.  The  example  of  the  child's  anxiety  occasioned  by  the  fami-  ly's  move  to  a  new  home  may  be  cited.  Everything  physical  in  Paraguay  is  getting  smaller  and  smaller.  Walls  thin  as  a  thought,  locomotive-substitutes  no  bigger  than  ball-point  pens.  Paraguay,  then,  has  big  empty  spaces  in  which  men  wander,  trying  to  touch  some-  thing.  Preoccupation  with  skin  (on  and  off,  wrinkling,  the  new  skin,  pink,  fresh,  taut)  possibly  a  response  to  this.  Stories  about  skin,  histories  of  particular  skins.  But  no  jokes!  Some  700,000  photographs  of  nuclear  events  were  lost  when  the  great  library  of  Paraguay  burned.  Particle  identification  was  set  back  many  years.  Rather  than  recreate  the  former  physics,  a  new  physics  based  on  the  golden  section  (proliferation  of  golden  sections)  was  constructed.  As  a  system  of  explanation  almost  certain  to  be  incorrect  it  enjoys  enormous  prestige  here.  THE  WALL  Behind  the  wall  there  is  a  field  of  red  snow.  I  had  expected  that  to  enter  it  would  be  forbidden,  but  Jean  said  no,  walk  about  in  it,  as  much  as  you  like.  I  had  expected  that  walking  in  it  one  would  leave  no  footprints,  or  that  there  would  be  some  other  anomaly  of  that  kind,  but  there  were  no  anomalies;  I  left  footprints  and  felt  the  cold  ofthe  red  snow  underfoot.  I  said  to  Jean  Mueller,  &quot;What  is  the  point  of  this  red  snow?&quot;  &quot;The  intention  ofthe  red  snow,  the  reason  itis  isolated  behind  the  wall,  yet  not  forbidden,  is  its  soft  glow-as  if  it  were  lighted  from  be-  neath.  You  must  have  noticed  it;  you've  been  standing  here  for  twenty  minutes.&quot;  &quot;But  what  does  it  do?&quot;  &quot;Like  any  other  snow,  it  invites  con-  templation  and  walking  about  in.&quot;  The  snow  rearranged  itself  into  a  smooth,  red  surface  without  footprints.  It  had  ared  glow,  as  if  lighted  from  beneath.  It  seemed  to  proclaim  itself  a  mystery,  but  one  there  was  no  point  in  solving--  an  ongoing  low-grade  mystery.  DErpARTURE  Then  I  was  shown  the  plan,  which  is  kept  in  a  box.  Herko  Mueller  opened  the  box  with  a  key  (everyone  has  a  key).  &quot;Here  is  the  plan,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  governs  more  or  less  everything.  It  is  a  way  of  allowing  a  very  wide  range  of  tendencies  to  interact.&quot;  The  plan  was  a  number  of  analyses  of  Brownian  mo-  tion  equipped,  at  each  end,  with  alliga-  tor  clips.  Then  the  bell  rang  and  the  space  became  crowded,  hundreds  of  men  and  women  standing  there  wait-  ing  for  the  marshals  to  establish  some  sort  of  order.  I  had  been  chosen,  Herko  said,  to  head  the  column  (on  the  principle  of  the  least-likely-leader  ).  We  robed;  I  folded  my  arms  around  the  mace.  We  began  the  descent  (into?  out  of?  )  Paraguay. "