 AS  I  YVALKED  OUT  ONE  MIDSUMMER  MORNING  searching  ofsuspects  be-  HE  Spanish  Civil  War  started  in  the  middle  of  July,  1936.  There  were  no  announcements  or  newspapers  in  the  Andalusian  vil-  lage  where  I  was  living,  just  a  whis-  pering  in  the  street  and  the  sound  of  a  woman  weeping.  I  was  twenty-two  years  old,  and  had  left  my  village  home  in  England  in  order  tosee  the  world.  I  had  spent  a  year  walking  through  537061696e,  and  had  now  reached  Castillo-a  small  fishing  port  built  onan  outcrop  of  rock  in  a  pebbly  delta  sixty  miles  up  the  Mediter-  ranean  from  Malaga.  I  had  ajob  of  sorts  in  one  of  Castillo's  two  hotels,  helping  in  the  kitchen  and  playing  the  violin  in  the  saloon  at  night.  I  was  liv-  ing  near  the  church,  in  the  house  of  an  expatriate  English  novelist  who'd  lent  me  a  room  overlooking  the  bay,  and  as  I  went  out  that  morning  I  saw  a  wom-  an  lying  face  down  on  the  pavement,  beating  the  ground  with  her  hands.  A  group  of  neighbors  stood  by,  making  no  attempt  to  move  her-her  attend-  ants  rather  than  comforters.  They  said  she  was  weeping  for  her  son-a  young  conscript  in  the  Army,  who  to  her  was  already  as  good  as  dead.  I  went  to  the  bar  that  Ricardo,  the  hotel  waiter,  frequented,  and  he  told  me  what  he  knew  -a  seesaw  of  fact  and  fantasy.  He  was  the  leader  of  a  group  of  fishermen  and  laborers  who  had  gradual-  ly,  over  a  period  of  six  months,  admitted  me  to  their  company.  Ricardo  said  there  had  been  anti-  government  uprisings  in  the  garrisons  of  Span-  ish  [REDACTED]-at  Melilla,  Tetuin,  and  Larache.  On  the  other  hand,  said  Ricardo,  there  was  noth-  ing  to  worry  about,  the  situation  was  under  control.  General  Francisco  Franco,  &quot;the  butcher  of  the  Asturian  miners,&quot;  had  flown  from  the  Canaries  to  lead  the  rebels.  There  were  reports  of  other  uprisings  in  Saragossa,  537061696e,  and  Seville.  ...  But,  no,  the  government  had  put  them  down....  Franco  himself  was  dead,  had  been  brought  down  in  the  sea,  had  been  ar-  rested,  assassinated,  shot.  ...  Even  so,  Moorish  troops  were  pouring  into  the  south  of  537061696e.  ...  But  they  would  be  slaughtered  before  they  could  advance  an  inch.  ...  Indeed,  there  was  no  firm  news.  The  caf\xc3\xa9  radios  were  silent,  or  jammed,  or  stridently  at  odds  with  each     VAR  other.  People  gathered  in  the  streets,  staring  up  at  the  sky  as  though  ex-  pecting  to  see  some  great  proclamation  written  across  it.  And  as  always-im-  pelled  by  the  oldest  instinct  of  the  countryside-the  fields  emptied  and  peasants  poured  into  the  village,  bring-  ing  their  wives  and  children,  their  sheep  and  goats,  and  settling  them  down  under  the  castle  walls.  Some  of  the  men  brought  guns,  but  most  were  unarmed.  They  crowded  the  plaza,  simply  waiting  to  be  used,  standing  with  their  backs  to  the  town  hall,  shoulder  to  shoulder  with  the  fisher-  men,  as  though  ready  to  defend  it  with  their  bodies.  There  was  no  au-  thority  yet;  theirs  was  just  a  defensive  laager  drawn  up  spontaneously  in  the  face  of  the  unknown.  Meanwhile,  Ri-  cardo  and  El  Gato  (the  leader  of  one  ofthe  newly  formed  fishermen's  un-  ions)  started  to  organize  some  kind  of  militia.  The  police  had  suddenly  disappeared  and  the  village  was  on  its  own-gov-  ernment  supporters  facing  the  enemy  within.  A  round  of  searches  began  among  the  houses  of  suspected  Fas-  cists,  Ricardo  took  men  to  barricade  the  coastal  road.  Then,  in  the  after-  noon,  there  arrived  the  first  car  from  Malaga,  driving  fast  and  smothered  with  dust.  It  was  stopped  at  the  road-  block,  and  Ricardo's  bayo-  nets  surrounded  it,  pricking  open  the  doors  and  win-  dows.  A  couple  of  white-  faced  young  men  were  hur-  ried  off  to  jail,  while  rifles  and  grenades  were  dug  out  of  the  luggage  compart-  ment.  Later,  a  Frenchman  drove  up  in  a  battered  Fiat  with  a  white  flagtied  on  the  roof.  He  said  half  M\xc3\xa9-  laga  was  in  flames  and  that  there  was  fighting  in  the  streets.  He  didn't  know  which  side  was  winning,  or  even  where  he  was  going,  but  he  showed  usa  score  of  bullet  holes  in  the  back  of  his  car.  Night  brought  more  rumors,  smug-  gled  in  with  the  dark,  along  the  coast  road  and  down  from  the  hills.  Granada  was  held  by  the  rebels,  and  so  was  our  neighbor,  Altofaro.  The  fate  of  Malaga  was  still  unknown.  Meanwhile,  our  confused  little  fortress  seemed  to  be  caught  between  the  mountains  and  the  sea,  with  fires  spreading  on  either  side.  The  militia  were  busy  thatnight,  determined  that  there  should  be  no  up-  rising  in  Castillo.  The  house-to-house  gan  to  reveal  the  little  caches  of  arms  so  care-  fully  hidden  for  months-packed  in  wine  barrels  in  cellars,  hung  in  baskets  down  wells,  in  cupboards,  in  clocks,  up  chimneys.  The  loot  was  piled  in  the  plaza  and  guarded  byEl  Gato's  mili-  tia-the  best  arms  they  were  to  get  in  the  war.  A  wave  of  summary  arrests  also  be-  gan  that  evening.  Elegant  and  re-  signed  in  their  crisp  white  shirts,  the  young  sefforitos  sat  waiting  in  thepaseo.  When  the  patrols  approachedthem,  they  rose  casually  totheir  feet,  crushed  out  their  cigarettes,  and  strolled  away  under  guard.  The  priest  was  rounded  up,  too,  and  I  saw  him  brought  flus-  tered  from  his  house  and  led  off  to  jail  with  the  others.  Few  of  the  local  Fas-  cists  attempted  either  to  escape  or  hide.  The  hour  was  too  late  for  that.  &quot;There  was  a  plot,&quot;  said  Ricardo  in  the  bar  that  night.  &quot;Now  we  have  them  tied  like  mules.&quot;  He  looked  drained,  pallid.  El  Gato  poured  him  some  brandy,  saying  he  would  need  it  for  the  executions,  but  Ricardo  only  shook  his  head.  El  Gato  was  a  large,  noisy  man,  and  tonight  he  was  drinking  heavily.  &quot;'You  need  fire,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  are  vengeance  like  a  trickle  of  ice  water.&quot;  Ricardo  turned  away  with  a  smile.  These  two  ill-assorted  men  were  now  in  control  of  the  village,  and  the  bar  was  their  headquarters-with  men  coming  and  going,  raising  arms  in  sa-  lute,  bringing  reports  and  carrying  messages.  Malaga  would  hold,  said  El  Gato,  and  if  Granada  attacked  from  the  north  they  would  find  Castillo  a  nest  of  swords.  Their  chief  concern  was  Altofaro,  only  six  miles  down  the  coast  and  near  enough  to  Africa  to  be  used  as  a  beachhead.  If  the  rebels  made  a  landing  there,  they  could  outflank  Malaga  from  the  east,  and  then  Cas-  tillo  might  become  the  key  to  the  war.  Ricardo  and  El  Gato,  having  no  facts  to  confine  them,  began  to  expand  before  each  other's  eyes,  grew  vast  as  gen-  erals,  became  emperors  of  armies,  pos-  sible  liberators  of  the  entire  peninsula.  Walking  home  after  midnight,  I  saw  a  heavyguard  around  the  prison  and  another  around  the  captured  arse-  nal.  The  militia  were  bivouacked  in  the  street,  crouching  over  flickering  wood  fires,  their  faces  outlined  in  red:  high  cheekbones,  pitted  eyes,  hungry  sunken  cheeks-soldiers  of  Goya  come  alive  again.  EARLY  next  morning,  four  truck-  loads  of  militia  drove  off  to  Alto-  faro  to  attack  the  rebels.  They  swung  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  singing  through  the  streets  in  their  bright  blue  shirts,  waving  their  caps  as  though  going  to  a  fair.  El  Gato  was  in  charge,  dvna-  mite  strapped  to  his  body;  the  others  shared  a  musket  among  every  three  men.  Once  they  were  over  the  hill,  we  expected  to  hear  the  sounds  of  war  break  out,  but  the  morning  passed  in  silence.  About  noon,  a  white  aircraft  swung  in  low  from  the  sea,  circled  the  village,  and  flew  away  again-leaving  the  clear  blue  sky  scarred  with  a  new  foreboding  above  a  mass  of  upturned  faces.  Many  felt,  till  that  mo-  ment,  their  village  to  be  secure  and  forgot-  ten;  now  the  eye  of  war  had  spied  them  out.  Throughout  the  aft-  ernoon,  nothing  hap-  pened.  Families  ate  their  meals  in  the  street,  Seeking  the  as-  surance  of  one  another's  company.  Once  again,  the  fierce  sunlight  oblit-  erated  everything  it  fell  on,  burning  all  colors  to  an  ashen  glare,.  That  after-  noon  of  waiting  was  the  hottest  I've  known.  Fear  vibrated  over  the  town.  It  was  as  though  El  Gato  and  his  men  had  been  swallowed  up  in  silence,  or  had  followed  the  war  to  another  country.  But  war  was  not  far  away,  and  after  nightfall,  unexpectedly,  it  paid  its  first  mad  call  on  Castillo.  A  destroy-  er  crept  into  the  bay,  unseen  by  any-  one,  and  then  began  probing  the  shore  with  its  searchlight.  The  beam  swept  over  the  hills,  up  and  down  the  coast,  and  finally  picked  out  the  village  and  pinned  it  against  the  darkness.  Held  by  the  blazing  eye,  opening  so  omi-  nously  from  the  sea,  the  people  ex-  perienced  a  moment  of  naked  panic.  There  seemed  nowhere  to  run  to,  nowhere  to  hide,  so  they  hurried  down  to  the  beach,  and  stood  motionless  in  the  glare,  facing  the  invisible  warship  and  raising  their  arms  in  a  kind  of  massed  entreaty.  As  the  searchlight  played  over  them,  they  remained  stiffly  at  attention,  just  letting  themselves  be  seen.  In  the  face  of  the  unknown,  all  they  could  do  was  to  offer  themselves  in  this  posture  of  speechless  acqui-  escence.  Such  pitiless  brightness  had  never  lit  up  their  night  before:  friend  or  foe,  it  was  a  light  of  terror.  As  we  watched,  it  began  to  play  over  the  nearby  hills  and  move  again  along  the  coastal  road.  Suddenly  it  picked  out  a  lorry  heading  toward  the  village,  then  three  more,  all  packed  with  men.  The  beam  lazily  followed  them,  as  though  escorting  them  home,  lighting  up  their  rifles  like  little  thorns.  One  could  hear  distant  shouting  above  the  sound  of  the  engines-it  was  El  Gato's  militia  coming  back  at  last.  The  trucks  roared  into  the  village,  horns  stridently  blowing,  and  pulled  up  in  a  pool  of  light.  The  searchlight  was  abruptly  switched  off,  followed  by  a  moment  of  absolute  darkness.  Then  there  came  a  blinding  flash  from  the  sea.  Silence.  It  was  as  though  a  great  fuse  had  blown.  Then  the  mountains  behind  us  thundered-a  thunder  that  boomed  and  cannonedfrom  peak  to  peak  and  tumbled  in  the  valleys  like  showers  of  stones.  There  was  another  flash,  another  explosion,  another  hot  blast  of  air.  For  a  moment  we  im-  agined  it  might  be  some  kind  of  salute  to  the  militia.  Then  we  heard  the  tearing  scream  ofa  shell.  The  searchlight  came  on  again.  We  could  see  the  crowds  on  the  beaches  surging  inland  like  a  muddy  wave.      The  destroyer  fired  once  more,  misting  its  searchlight  with  smoke,.  A  house  on  our  right  shuddered  drunkenly,  rose  a  foot  in  the  air,  and  slowly  collapsed  like  a  puffball,.  A  bundle  of  stones  and  trees  leapt  up  by  the  river.  A  pall  of  dust  drifted  over  the  village.  After  halfa  dozen  more  salvos,  the  firing  broke  off-inexplicably,  since  we  seemed  to  be  at  their  mercy.  Then  the  shocked  silence  in  the  village  began  to  fill  with  a  curious  whispering  and  rus-  tling,  the  sound  of  a  multitude  on  the  move.  In  the  naked  beam  of  the  search-  light  we  saw  them  come  stumbling  up  the  streets,  bent  double,  crying  and  moaning,  mothers  and  fathers  dragging  their  children  behind  them,  old  folk  tottering  and  falling  down.  As  the  village  ran  forthe  hills,  looking  for  patches  of  darkness,  we  saw  a  small  boat  put  out  from  the  shore,  with  two  squat  figures  inside  it  sitting  hunched  at  their  oars  and  row-  ing  frantically  toward  the  ship.  And  that  was  the  end  of  the  bom-  bardment.  The  destroyer  was  found  to  be  friendly.  It  had  all  been  an  un-  fortunate  error  of  war-a  case  of  mis-  taken  identity.  The  captain  sent  his  apologies,  slipped  anchor,  and  sailed  quietly  away-leaving  a  few  gaps  in  the  houses,  a  few  dead  in  the  streets,     " b" and  most  of  the  population  scattered  across  the  hillsides.  HEN  the  sun  rose  next  morn-  ing,Castillo  had  transformed  it-  self,  with  flags  fluttering  from  every  rooftop.  Every  serap  of  old  cloth  with-  in  the  spectrum  of  red,  from  orange,  vermillion,  to  purple,  had  been  hastily  cut  into  squares  and  run  up  on  poles  to  make  it  clear  on  which  side  we  stood.  Even  the  houses  of  the  Fascists  wore  scarlet  that  morning,  as  did  the  casino,  the  bank,  and  the  church.  In  the  face  of  any  more  trigger-happy  assaults  made  by  passing  friends,  it  was  thought  as  well  to  take  no  chances.  But  the  village  seemed  purged,  curiously  enough,  by  its  night  of  fire.  One  heard  no  blame  laid  against  the  warship.  In  spite  of  the  ruins  and  the  dead,  the  capricious  savagery  of  the  bombardment  was  accepted  as  one  of  the  traditional  blows  of  fate.  Castillo,  if  anything,  felt  enlarged  by  the  or-  deal;  it  now  had  wounds  to  boast  of,  had  smelt  the  hot  reek  of  powder,  stared  down  the  muzzle  of  guns,  and  known  itself  to  survive.  There  was  satisfaction,  too,  in  the  fact  that  the  destroyer  was  theirs,  andhad  splendidly  shown  its  powers.  We  learned  that  it  was  El  Gato  and  the  mayor  who  had  stopped  the  shelling  last  night-the  only  ones  to  keep  their  heads.  They  had  rowed  out  alone  along  the  path  of  the  searchlight  and  asked  what  in  the  hell  was  going  on.  The  captain  explained  that  he'd  simply  mixed  up  his  villages  and  mistaken  us  for  the  rebel-held  Altofaro.  Moreover,  he'd  thought  the  militia  were  attack-  ing,  rather  than  returning  home,  and  he'd  only  meant  to  help.  El  Gato's  expedition  itself  was  also  revealed  to  have  been  something  of  a  fiasco:  the  men  had  forgotten  their  ammunition.  Now  that  Castillo  had  come  out  under  the  scarlet  banner,  the  morn-  ing  was  one  of  mounting  action.  This  was  the  day  when  the  peasants  and  fishermen  openly  took  over  the  village,  commandeering  the  houses  of  suspects  and  the  empty  villas  of  the  rich  and  painting  across  them  their  plans  for  a  new  millennium.  &quot;Here  Will  Be  the  Nursery  School.&quot;  &quot;Here  Will  Be  the  House  of  Culture.&quot;  &quot;Here  Will  Be  a  Sanatorium  for  Women.&quot;  &quot;Work-  ers,  Respect  This  House  for  Agricul-  tural  Science.&quot;  &quot;Here  Will  Be  a  Train-  ing  College  for  Girls.&quot;  Each  of  the  large  bold  words  was  painstakingly  written  in  red-a  memorandum  of  a  brief  and  innocent  euphoria.  For  who  among  the  crowds  could  have  guessed,  as  they  gathered  in  the  streets  to  read  them,  that  these  naive  hopes  would  later  be  treated  as  outrage?  Meanwhile,  the  militia  were  massing  fora  new  attack  on  Altofaro,  unde-  terred  by  yesterday's  failure.  They  formed  up  raggedly  in  the  square,  polishing  their  guns  on  their  trousers  and  watched  by  a  scattering  of  wide-  eyed  dogs  and  boys.  Ricardo  and  El  Gato,  in  long  blue  overalls,  marched  up  and  down  the  ranks-Ricardo  pale  and  stern,  El  Gato  loud  and  jovial,  chaffing  the  men  with  macabre  jokes.  The  militia  were  mixed,  some  old  and  grizzled,  others  young,  bright-faced,  and  swaggering.  There  was  also  a  pla-  toon  of  teen-age  girls  armed  with  hand  grenades.  Nobody  joked  with  them.  About  noon,  the  militia  climbed  into  their  open  lorries  and  rattled  off  up  the  coastal  road,  standing  stiff  and  straight,  arms  raised  in  salute,  calm,  but  not  singing  now.  We  watched  the  swirl  of  white  dust  climb  the  side  of  the  hill  and  hang  over  the  ridge  in  the  hot  still  air.   After  they'd  gone,  the  village  was  left  in  a  kind  of  limbo,  not  knowing  what  to  do.  I  went  and  sat  in  a  bar,  feeling  bereft  and  impotent,  as  though  robbed  of  some  great  occasion.  I'd  seen  those  silent  men  and  muscular,  stiff-lipped  girls  riding  to  a  war  just  down  the  road,  to  a  blaze  of  battle  under  a  burning  sky  offering  all  the  trappings  of  heroic  carnage.  That  special  adren-  aline  in  the  young  which  makes  war  easy,  and  welcomes  it,  tempted  me  to  go  with  them  to  Altofaro.  Even  so,  I  hung  back,  as  from  some  family  affair  in  which  I  still  doubted  I  had  a  part.  Later  that  afternoon  we  heard  the  sound  of  distant  gunfire,  snapping  like  pods  in  the  hills  The  day  was  dead  calm  and  the  firing  came  to  the  ears  with  dry  little  displacements  of  air.  Then  about  four  o'clock,  two  warships  appeared,  steaming  slowly  toward  the  east.  El  Gato  had  boastedthey'd  come;  he'd  arranged  it  by  radio,  he  said.  But  nobodyhad  believed  him.  Now  the  ships  moved  quictly  along  the  coast  and  anchored  about  six  miles  away,  standing  inline  astern  and  facing  the  rebel  port  which  lay  just  hidden  be-  hind  the  headland.  Once  again,  the  village  crowded  onto  the  beach  to  watch.  The  evening  was  hazy  and  peacock-colored;  delicate  hues  ran  -slowly  over  the  sea  and  sky  and  melted  together  like  oil.  The  de-  stroyers  lay  low  on  the  horizon,  slen-  der  as  floating  leaves,  insubstantial  as  the  air  around  them.  Lights  winked,  there  was  a  glitter  of  sun  on  metal,  then  little  flashes  ran  along  the  ships-  twinkling  eruptions  of  fire  that  sudden-  ly  starred  the  air  then  vanished  without  a  sound.  The  shelling  of  Altofaro  had  begun-curiously  muted  at  first,  its  force  softened  by  heat  and  distance.  " b"Then  the  sound  of  the  explosions  reached  us,  round  and  hollow,  bounc-  ing  dully  across  the  water.  The  villagers  watched  in  silence,  showing  no  sign  of  excitement,  but  rather  with  a  mixture  of  morbid  com-  passion.  Dim,  muffled  shudders  came  from  behind  the  headland  as  the  shells  began  to  strike  home.  The  bombard-  ment  continued  for  about  an  hour,  then  the  ships  steamed  away,  leaving  a  col-  umn  of  smoke  in  the  air-a  black  greasy  pall  that  slowly  mounted  the  sky  and  spread  grubbily  over  the  twilit  hills.  Long  after  the  firing  had  died  and  darkness  fallen,  the  villagers  still  lin-  gered  along  the  shore,  standing  trance-  like,  rigid,  strangely  dumb,  just  staring  toward  the  east.  Once  again,  they  seemed  to  be  tasting  the  fumes  and  the  sulphur,  and  sensing  the  heat  of  the  guns  they  knew,  but  this  time  the  sal-  vos  had  been  turned  elsewhere,  and  the  terror  was  in  their  name.  It  was  not  victory,  however;  there  was  no  victory  on  the  coast  that  night.  Altofaro  had  not  been  destroyed,  nor  had  it  even  surrendered.  When  the  militia  returned,  round  about  midnight,  there  was  no  singing  or  cheering  wel-  come.  The  wounded,  the  shocked,  the  dying,  and  the  dead  were  unloaded  in  bitter  silence.  Ricardo  was  missing,  and  El  Gato  walked  speechlessly  away  trail-  ing  his  rifle  like  a  broken  limb.  Some-  thing  had  gone  wrong,  something  which  had  not  been  thought  possible  when  the  militia  first  took  up  arms.  Under  the  pale  street  lamps,  amid  the  weeping  and  curses,  the  simple  truth  was  being  uncovered.  After  the  day's  massacre  at  Altofaro,  and  the  clumsy  impotence  ofthe  warships  whose  shells  appeared  to  have  fallen  harmlessly  in  open  country-it  was  being  learned  again  that  men  needed  more  than  courage,anger,  slogans,  convictions,  or  even  a  just  cause  when  they  went  to  war.  The  village  became  aware  that  night,  not  for  the  first  time  in  its  history,  that  a  people's  army  could  be  defeated.  HE  next  morning,  El  Gato  blew  up  the  bridges  on  the  coastal  roads  and,  so  far  as  one  could  tell,  we  were  now  cut  off.  In  Castillo,  it  was  a  day  of  nervousness  and  shame  which  led  to  further  outbreaks  of  mindless  vio-  lence.  As  I  walked  down  to  the  bar  to  get  news  of  Ricardo,  I  saw  that  the  casino  had  been  sacked  and  burned.  It  had  been  a  cheap,  florid  building,  pseudo-Moorish  in  style,  but  neverthe-  less  a  symbol  of  civic  pride.  Now  the  villagers  had  set  upon  it  savagely  and  torn  it  to  pieces,  in  spite  of  their  love  of  its  gaudy  grandeur.  By  the  time  I  arrived,  it  was  already  a  littered  ruin,  a  black  and  degraded  mess.  Men  and  women  stood  around  it,  sniffing  the  curling  smoke  and  kicking  at  broken  pieces  of  furniture;  out  in  the  street  a  grand  piano  lay  with  its  legs  in  the  air,  smoldering  gently  like  a  roasted  ox,  and  an  air  of  orgiastic  gloom  pervaded  the  scene,  a  sour  and  desolate  sadness.  The  militia  were  utterly  demoral-  ized  by  their  defeat  last  night.  There  was  no  more  talk  of  returning  to  the  offensive  or  of  making  another  attack  on  Altofaro.  The  lorries  baked  in  the  sun,  and  throughout  the  long  afternoon  the  men  squabbled  or  simply  slept.  Later  that  night  Ricardo  returned,  having  made  his  way  back  along  the  coast  on  foot.  He  walked  quietly  into  the  bar  like  an  apparition,  his  face  drawn,  his  clothes  dripping  with  sea-  water.  El  Gato,  who  had  been  drink-  ing  and  dozing  all  evening,  rose  to  his  feet  with  a  grunt  and  embraced  him.  They  stood,  the  two  leaders,  the  big  and  the  small,  holding  on  to  each  other  stiffly.  &quot;Where  were  you?&quot;  asked  El  Gato.  &quot;We  didn't  mean  to  leave  you.  We  had  to  get  out,  you  understand.&quot;  Ricardo  nodded.  &quot;I  saw  you  go,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  buried  myself.  Isidro  was  lying  just  across  the  alley.  He  was  still  alive  when  they  found  him  and  they  cut  his  throat.  When  it  got  quiet,  I  went  into  the  sea.  I  swam  to  the  Faro-then  I  came  on  over  the  cliff.&quot;  &quot;What  about  the  ships?&quot;  &quot;You  saw  them.  You  saw  what  they  did.&quot;  &quot;Can  we  get  back?&quot;  &quot;Not  with  this  gang-never.&quot;  El  Gato  gave  Ricardo  some  brandy,  then  stripped  off  his  cartridge  belt  and  tossed  it  into  a  corner.  An  air  of  abso-  lute  exhaustion  settled  down  on  the  bar.  &quot;We're  finished  before  we  start-  ed,&quot;  said  Ricardo.  His  companions  sat  around  in  silence,  staring  at  the  blank  bare  walls  El  Gato  went  to  sleep  again.  About  midnight,  we  got  through  to  Radio  Sevilla,  and  heard  Queipo  de  Llano  exulting  in  the  fall  of  the  city.  The  rebel  general  was  drunk,  and  each  slurred,  belching  phrase  was  a  slap  in  the  faceof  the  militia.  Christ  had  triumphed,  he  ranted,  through  God's  army  in  537061696e,  of  which  Generalissimo  Franco  was  the  sainted  leader.  The  criminal  forces  of  Socialism,  which  had  drawn  their  slime  across  the  country,  were  being  routed  by  the  soldiers  of  righteousness.  He  ordered  the  workers  to  submit  and  to  return  to  work;  oth-  erwise  they  and  their  families  would  be  shot.  God's  army  was  merciful,  but  537061696e  would  be  emptied  if  neces-  sary.  &quot;Vive  Espafia!  Viva  la  Virgen!&quot;  &quot;It's  true,&quot;  said  Ricardo,  shivering  " b"30  with  fever  and  struggling  to  keep  awake.  The  rebels  were  steadily  build-  ing  up  their  forces  from  Africa,  he  said-flying  in  thousands  of  Moorish  troops  each  day.  &quot;The  Catholic  kings  were  the  first  to  drive  the  Moors  from  537061696e.  Now  the  Catholic  generals  are  bringing  them  back.  What  can  we  do?  There's  nothing  to  stop  them.  The  war  is  over,  I  think.  ...&quot;  Ricardo  was  wrong.  The  long  war  was  only  just  beginning.  But  I  did  not  know  this.  Nor  did  I  know,  as  I  went  to  bed  that  night,  that  I  had  only  a  few  hours  left  in  537061696e.  WHEN  I  awoke  next  morning,  there  was  another  warship  in  the  bay,  swinging  gently  at  anchor  in  the  sunshine.  It  rode  sleepily  on  the  water,  deck  awnings  in  place  and  with  its  guns  reassuringly  covered.  As  my  English  novelist  friend  and  I  were  taking  break-  fast  on  the  terrace,  we  watched  it  idly  over  thetops  of  the  palm  trees.  There  seemed  to  be  no  movement  on  board,  and  the  village  itself  lay  hazed  in  a  silence  which  promised  another  hot  and  hooded  day.  Then  we  heard  a  rush  of  footsteps  in  the  street,  a  loud  hammering  on  the  door,  and  the  house  was  invaded  by  women  and  children,  who  came  stum-  bling  up  the  stairs,  excitedly  calling  our  names  and  led  by  our  flushed  and  di-  shevelled  landlady.  &quot;Hurry!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;Leave  every-  thing-you  are  saved.  Your  king  has  sent  you  a  ship.  They  are  waiting  for  you  on  the  beach  and  have  come  to  take  you  home.  Before  God,  who  more  for-  tunate  than  you?&quot;  They  dragged  us  out  of  the  house  and  hurried  us  down  to  the  shore,  urging  us  on  with  impatient  shouts.  &quot;Run,  run,  Lorenzo!  Your  friend  the  admiral  is  waiting!&quot;  The  women  were  skipping  around  us  like  frogs.  Sure  enough,  a  ship's  cutter  was  drawn  upon  the  sand,  guarded  by  pink-cheeked  British  sailors.  A  smart  officer  in  white,  who  had  been  making  inquiries  at  the  hotel,  strolled  down  the  steps  and  introduced  himself.  No  panic,  he  said,  but  the  Navy  had  sent  out  a  destroyer  to  pick  up  any  British  subjects  who  might  be  ma-  rooned  on  the  coast.  Could  we  be  ready  in  an  hour?  The  situation  was  edgy.  Alas,  personal  baggage  only  .  ..  So  it  had  come-the  sudden  end  to  my  adventure,  with  the  long  arm  reaching  from  home,  the  destroyer  bobbing  in  the  bay  like  an  aproned  nanny,  the  officer  like  a  patient  elder  brother.  Responsible,  tolerant,  but  slightly  bored,  he  was  here  to  snatch  us from  alien  perils,  to  honor  the  birth-  right  inscribed  in  our  passports,  and  to  stop  us  making  fools  of  ourselves.  Naturally,  he  said,  it  was  up  to  us.  We  could  stay  and  sweat  it  out  if  we  wished.  But  he  couldn't  guarantee  they'dbe  back,  and  the  civil  war  was  spreading.  His  captain  advised  us  to  get  out  now.  I  knew  I  would  have  to  go.  I  couldn't  resist  the  flattery  of  theoc-  casion-all  the  paraphernalia  of  official  rescue,  so  lavishly  gathered  and  wait-  ing,  and  the  villagers'  expectations  as  they  crowded  around  us.  As  much  as  anything  else,  it  was  their  faces  which  decided  me,  faces  already  set  for  a  huge  farewell.  The  King  of  England  had  sent  a  ship  for  the  hotel  fiddler  and  his  friend,  and  our  departure  was  a  dra-  matic  necessity.  Finally,  a  large  happy  crowd,  loudly  bewailing  our  departure,  escorted  the  pair  of  us  down  to  the  beach,  dumped  our  goods  in  the  water,  begged  us  not  to  leave  them,  and  lifted  us  bodily  into  the  boat.  The  sailors  jumped  in  after  us,  not  a  moment  too  soon,  and  we  were  off,  launched  by  a  hundred  hands.  A  young  friend  of  the  novelist,  with  a     desperate  cry,  flunghimself  into  the  sea  behind  us,  swam  a  few  wild  strokes  in  sobbing  pursuit,  and  then  allowed  his  companions  to  drag  him  back  to  shore.  The  whole  village  had  turned  out  to  witness  our  departure  and  stood  in  a  long,  dark  frieze  round  the  bay,  waving  and  calling  across  the  water,  some  of  them  running  up  and  down  the  sand.  There  was  also  something  desperate,  almost  sinister,  in  the  way  they  packed  the  edge  of  the  sea,  as  though  in  dread  of  the  land  behind  them.  Once  we  were  safely  aboard,  the  ship  leapt  into  life  and  sliced  in  a  fast  sharp  curve  out  to  sea-a  multimillion-  pound  vessel,  throbbing  with  power,  manned  by  a  hundred  and  twenty  crew,  its  engines  burning  up  fuel  at  thirty  pounds  sterling  a  minute,  and  all  for  a  couple  of  English  tramps.  It  was  midday  now,  with  the  deck  awn-  ings  flapping  and  the  starch-blue  sea  racing  by,  the  officers  wandering  below  for  their  pre-lunch  drinks,  and  the  novelist  already  typing.  But  I  stayed  on  deck,  watching  Castillo  grow  small,  and  537061696e  fold  itself  away.  From  that  seaborne  dis-  tance,  cut  off  and  secure,  I  seemed  only  then  to  begin  to  know  that  country;  could  smell  its  runnels  of  dust,  the  dead  ash  of  its  fields,  whiffs  of  sour  wine,  rot-  ting  offal  and  incense,the  rank  hide  of  its  animals,  the  peppery  skin  of  its  men,  the  sickly  tang  of  its  fevered  children.  I  saw  again,  as  I  lost  them,  the  great  " b"gold  plains,  the  arid  and  mystical  dis-  tances,  where  the  sun  came  down  like  a  butcher  each  morning  and  left  cur-  tains  of  blood  each  night.  I  could  hear  the  talk,  the  cries,  the  Spanish-Arabic  voices  pitched  to  carry  from  hill  to  hill;  the  trickling  sound  of  guitars  erod-  ing  the  long  boredom  of  afternoons;  and  the  songs,  metallic,  hatcheting  the  ear,  honed  with  forlorn  and  unassuage-  able  lusts.  An  officer  came  up  on  deck  and  handed  me  a  drink.  &quot;Shame  to  break  up  your  holiday  like  this,&quot;  he  said.  BACK  in  England  it  was  August,  bank-holiday  time,  with  the  coun-  try  deep  in  the  grip  of  a  characteristic  mid-thirties  withdrawal,  snoozing  un-  der  old  newspapers  and  knotted  hand-  kerchiefs.  I  returned  to  my  Gloucestershire  village,  amazed  tosee  once  more  the  depth  of  the  grass  and  the  weight  of  the  leaves  on  the  trees.  But  the  pleasure  of  being  home  again  with  my  mother  and  brothers,  and  receiving  the  tradi-  tional  cosseting  of  the  prodigal,  was  quickly  replaced  by  misgivings.  I'd  been  away  two  years,  but  was  little  the  wiser  for  it.  I  was  twenty-two,  woolly-  minded,  and  still  naive  in  everything,  but  I  began  to  realize  I'd  come  home  too  soon.  The  Spanish  War  was  not  what  it  had  seemed  within  the  local  limits  of  an  Andalusian  village.  As  I  learned  more  about  it  from  the  newspapers  its  scale  and  implications-I  couldn't  help  feeling  that  I'd  run  out  on  my  friends  in  Castillo.  Unlike  so  many  Englishmen  of  my  age,  for  whom  537061696e  in  the  thirties  rep-  resented  one  of  the  last  theatres  of  po-  litical  romanticism,  I  hadn't  consciously  chosen  it  as  a  Cause  but  had  stumbled  on  it  by  accident,  simply  by  happening  to  be  there.  Now  I  began  to  feel  shameful  doubts  at  having  turned  my  back  on  events  so  easily,  just  when  they  could  be  leading  to  global  war.  It  was  a  restless  summer.  I  was  pen-  niless,  without  contacts,  and  totally  ig-  norant  of  ways  and  means.  537061696e  was  over  a  thousand  miles  away  and  already  sealedoff  by  the  political  hypocrisies  of  the  rest  of  Europe.  I  might  have  given  up  theidea  of  going  back  if  I  hadn't  suddenly  fallen  in  love,  but  the  result  of  that  experience,  which  went  deeper  than  anything  I'd  known  before,  only  made  my  situation  all  the  more  intoler-  able.  Returning  to  537061696e,  for  me,  was  a  hallucination  of  honor,  no  doubt  a  self-indulgence,  irrelevant  to  events  and  certainly  irrelevant  to  the  girl.  I  left  [REDACTED]  in  the  autumn  and  worked     my  way  down  through  [REDACTED],  head-  ing  in  the  direction  of  the  Pyre-  nees,  planning,  when  the  chances  were  right,  simply  to  walk  into  the  moun-  tains  and  slip  across  the  frontier  alone.  The  Pyrenees,  when  I  got  there,  were  already  touched  with  snow  and  looked  gray  and  impregnable.  Winter  was  closing  in.  Even  so,  I  never  doubted  thatI  could  get  across.  Perpignan,  I'd  been  told,  was  swarming  with  Spanish  government  agents  eager  to  recruit  volunteers  and  smuggle  them  over  the  mountains.  Certainly  the  agents  were  there,  but  they  must  have  thought  me  a  doubtful  proposition,  for  my  approaches  were  ei-  ther  blocked  or  met  by  evasions.  When  I  mentioned  the  International  Brigade,  the  Spanish  Consul  was  polite  and  said  he  had  no  knowledge  of  such  a  body.  He  appreciated  my  good  will  but  assured  me  that  he  ran  no  excursions  across  the  frontier;  such  junketings  would  be  un-  thinkable  and  lawless.  The  war  was  a  domestic  matter,  he  said,  and  every-  thing  was  going  well;  but  if  I  really  wished  to  help  I  should  go  back  home.  I  spent  a  couple  of  weeks  in  the  town  without  breaking  through  this  wall  of  equivocation,  and  finally  I  realized  I  would  have  to  go  it  alone.  The  Pyrenees  to  the  south,  seen  in  the  sharp  winter  air,  began  to  look  smaller  and  less  noncommittal.  So,  early  in  December,  I  took  a  bus  to  Ceret,  in  the  foothills,  where  I  spent  my  last  snug  night  in  an  inn.  Then  next  morning,  at  first  light,  I  left  the  still  sleeping  village  and  started  off  up  the  mountain  track.  The  track  rose  steeply  among  rocks  that  were  diamond-crusted  with  ice,  and  I  soon  found  the  going  tough.  I  was  idiotically  equipped  for  such  a  journey,  having  brought  nothing  that  would  help  me,  though  plenty  of  stuff  that  wouldn't-no  maps,  no  compass,  no  tent  or  groundsheet;  instead,  a  rucksack  loaded  down  with  an  assort-  ment  of  books  and  papers,  together  with  my  violin,  a  folding  camera,  and  a  saucepan.  I  don't  really  know  why  I  was  carrying  all  this,  except  that  it  was  all  I  had  in  the  world.  Throughout  the  long  clear  morn-  ing  I  struggled  up  the  mountain  path,  buffeted  by  icy  winds  from  the  north.  The  great  peak  of  Canigou  stood  away  on  my  right,  floating  in  the  brilliant  sky  like  an  iceberg,  and  for  much  of  the  time,  not  having  a  compass,  I  was  able  to  use  it  as  a  sighting  post.  By  noon,  I'd  climbed  to  about  three  thousand  feet,  but  the  track  grew  more  and  more  tortuous,  so  I  decided  to  abandon  it  altogether  and  go  straight  up  the  mountain,  still  keeping  Canigou  on  my  right.  The  way  was  tricky  and  hard,  and  I  " b"32  found  myself  stumbling  on  my  knees  and  clawing  at  rocks  and  tufts  of  frozen  grass.  By  the  middle  of  the  afternoon  I  was  sweating  in  the  cold,  slipping  and  scrambling  over  the  broken  slopes.  But  I  was  high  up  now,  with  a  prickling  acrossthe  back  of  my  neck  as  I  felt  the  whole  of  [REDACTED]  plung-  ing  away  behind  me.  Having  been  born  and  brought  up  at  two  hundred  and  fifty  feet  above  sea  level,  I  was  not  used  to  such  dizzying  elevations.  Suddenly  there  was  an  ominous  change  in  the  atmosphere,  an  extra  keenness  of  cold  and  a  curious  glare  and  whitening  of  the  sunlight.  Looking  down,  I  saw  that  the  foothills  had  disappeared  and  had  been  replaced  by  a  blanket  of  swirling  vapor.  The  shin-  ing  peak  of  Canigou  began  to  switch  on  and  off  like  a  lighthouse,  intermit-  tently  shuttered  by  racing  clouds.  Then  the  wind  rose  abruptly  to  a  thin-edged  wail,  and  I  felt  the  first  stinging  bite  of  snow.  One  moment  I'd  been  climbing  a  mountain  in  a  sparkle  of  sunshine;  next,  the  whole  visible  world  had  gone,  and  I  was  slapped  to  my  knees  and  pinioned  to  a  shelf  of  rock,  head  down  in  a  driving  gale.  Gusts  of  snow  swept  round  me,  needling  in-  to  my  eyelids  and  piercing  my  clothes  like  powdered  glass.  The  storm  closed  in  and  began  scouring  the  mountain  with  an  insane  and  relentless  frenzy.  For  a  while  I  curled  myself  up  and  became  just  a  ball  of  survival,  mind-  lessly  hugging  the  lee  ofarock.Ilay  knee  to  chin,  letting  the  storm  ride  over  me;  then  I  began  to  wonder  what  I  was  doing  here.  To  lie  freezing  to  death  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  frontier  was  no  way  to  go  to  a  war.  And  there  was  no  point  in  staying  where  I  was,  so  I  started  to  move  forward,  crawling  slowly  on  hands  and  knees.  Distance,  direction,  movement,  and  balance  were  all  fused  by  the  driving  snow;  I  may  have  advanced  half  a  mile,  or  just  a  few  yards-there  was  no  longer  any  way  of  knowing.  All  I  remember  was  the  brightness  of  the  ground,  and  being  swept  by  waves  of  almost  infantile  pleasure,the  delirious  warmth  of  im-  pending  frostbite.  Then,  by  one  of  those  long-shot  chances,  taken  for  granted  at  the  time,  I  came  upon  a  rough  little  stone-  built  shelter.  It  was  half  in  ruins,  and  there  was  nothing  inside  it  but  straw,  but  I  suppose  it  may  have  saved  my  life.  Once  I'd  bedded  myself  down,  I  heard  the  blizzard  change  gear,  rising  rapidly  to  a  high-pitched  shriek,  and  for  acouple  of  hours  I  lay  motionless,  curled  deep  in  the  straw,  slowly  and  painfully  thawing  out.  By  now  I  was  exhausted  anyway,  too  drugged  by  the  cold  to  move,  even  to  attempt  to  build     AUGUST  23,  1969  a  fire;  so  I  just  lay,  sniffing  the  damp  warm  smell  ofthe  straw,  and  presently  I  fell  asleep.  Next  morning,  the  storm  was  over  and  the  sun  shone  brilliantly  again.  I  came  out  of  the  dark  little  hut  to  find  the  mountain  transformed-trees,  rocks,  and  bushes  thickly  bolstered  with  snow  and  giving  off  a  clean,  crispy  smell,  like  soda.  Abandoning  the  cozy  gully  where  I'd  spent  the  night,I  climbed  un-  steadily  for  an  hour  or  so,  plowing  through  snowdrifts,  stumbling  over  hidden  rocks,  and  slithering  about  in  my  sodden  shoes.  Then,  unexpectedly,  there  wasno  more  climbing;  the  slope  levelled  and  stopped,  the  sky  plunged,  and  I  was  on  topofthe  ridge.  The  icy  crests  of  the  Pyrenees  stretched  east  and  west,  flashing  in  the  sun,  while  before  me,  to  the  south,  was  what  I  had  come  to  see-range  after  range  of  little  steplike  hills  falling  away  to  the  immensities  of  537061696e.  But  I  was  notover  the  mountains  yet;  there  was  still  another  ridge  to  cross,  with  a  deep  valley  lying  between.  I  could  see  a  black  frozen  stream  wind-  ing  a  thousand  feet  below  me.  I  would  simply  have  to  go  down  and  up  again.  Crossing  this  mile-wide  chasm  took  me  the  rest  of  the  day-a  vertical,  trackless  journey.  Whipped  by  flurries  of  snow  and  bruising  winds,  I  slithered,  slipped,  and  scrambled,  seeing  no  living  thing  except  a  boy  and  a  sheepdog,  who  both  fled  when  they  saw  me  coming.  Toward  evening,  very  cold,  and  with  a  rime  of  frost  on  my  eyelashes,  I  was  about  halfway  up  the  second  slope,  when  I  came  to  a  small  mountain  road,  the  first  I'd  seen  for  two  days,  winding  bleakly  among  the  trees.  I  sat  and  stared  at  it  for  a  while,  but  it  told  me  nothing;  it  could  have  been  anywhere  on  earth-  just  an  inscrutable  little  track,  half  mud,  half  stones,  as  name-  less  as  a  peasant's  face.  But  darkness  was  coming  now,  and  I  was  limpwith  hun-  ger.  I  didn't  fancy  another  night  on  -the  mountain.  So  I  thought  I'd  better  follow  the  road  and  see  where  it  led  me,  even  if  it  meant  a  clash  with  the  frontier  guards.  The  track  wound  up-  ward  for  half  a  mile  through  a  thicket  of  pine  trees  and  pres-  ently  emerged  in  a  little  clearing.  I  saw  rooftops,  a  church,  and  a  cluster  of  village  lights.  Then  I  smelled  hot  butter,  and  knew  I  was  still  in  [REDACTED].  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Except  for  a  hobbled  horse  and  a  couple  of  snarling  dogs,  the  village  street  was  empty.  The  low  wooden  houses,  crudely  thatched  with  bracken,  had  a  look  of  dark  Siberian  squalor;  but  halfway  up  the  street  I  saw  the  lights  of  a  caf\xc3\xa9  shining  warmly  through  steamed-up  windows.  I  pushed  open  the  door  and  entered  a  noisy  room  full  of  little  men  in  sheep's-wool  coats.  But  when  they  saw  me  they  froze  as  though  I'd  let  in  a  blast  of  snow,  and  their  conversation  switched  off  abruptly.  What  rough  beast  was  this  slouching  toward  the  bar,  dressed  in  a  blanket  and  crumpled  hat,  coming  out  of  the  night  like  some  ghost  of  winter,  his  hair  and  eyebrows  white  with  frost?  Nobody  moved  or  spoke,  except  theold  woman  behind  the  bar,  who  bobbed  quickly  out  of  sight  as  I  approached  her.  Her  place  was  immediately  taken  by  a  huge-bellied  man  who  began  set-  ting  up  bottles  like  a  defensive  wall.  I  asked  if  I  could  have  something  to  cat,  and  he  repeated  the  question  to  the  room,  then,  after  a  pause,  nodded  to  an  empty  table.  I  slumped  down  in  a  chair,  and  presently  he  brought  me  some  soup,  which  seemed  to  be  a  mix-  ture  of  tar  and  onions.  As  I  ate,  the  men  watched  me-rows  of  bright  little  faces  wrapped  to  the  ears  in  their  fleece-lined  collars.  Some  quietly  shuf-  fled  their  dominoes,  others  winked  cryptically  at  one  another;  all  seemed  to  be  waiting  for  something  to  happen.  At  last,  a  committee  of  three  de-  tached  themselves  from  the  rest  and  came  over  and  sat  at  my  table.  They  were  low-voiced  and  confidential,  and  one  of  them  offered  me  a  cigarette.  I  didn't  have  to  answer,  but  they'd  rather  like  to  know  :  What  exactly  was  I  doing  here?  I'd  come  from  Perpignan,  hadn't  I-I'd  been  seen  there  sev-  eral  times  recently;  also  down  in  Ce-  ret,  a  couple  of  days  ago.  It  was  hard  on  the  mountain  at  this  time  of  the  year.  I  mustn't  mind  their  curiosity.  I  was  lucky.  It  might  justas  easily  have  gone  the  other  way,  with  an  ignominious  return  to  Perpignan.  But  it  seemed  I'd  fallen  on  my  feet  among  the  very  menwho  could  help  me:  a  community  of  frontier  anarchists.  I  don't  know  why  they  decided  to  trust  me,  or  why  they  thought  me  worth  the  trouble,  but  clearly  they'd  made  up  their  minds.  The  men  put  their  heads  together  and  held  a  brief  discussion;  then  one  of  them  looked  at  his  watch  and  nodded.  &quot;Itll  take  us  an  hour,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;So  as  soon  as  you're  ready.  Better  go  before  the  moon  comes  up.&quot;  Once  in  the  street,  my  companion  glanced  quickly  at  the  sky,  put  out  his    cigarette,  and  rolled  up  his  collar.  &quot;Stay  close,  and  say  nothing,&quot;  he  muttered,  then  shot  off  up  a  narrow  lane.  I  hur-  ried  after  him,  and  we  were  out  of  the  village  immediately,  climbing  a  steep  and  brutish  path.  The  man  raced  on  ahead  of  me,  taking  little  goatlike  leaps  and  dodging  nimbly  from  rock  to  rock.  I  could  see  his  gaunt  figure  bouncing  against  the  hazy  stars.  He  never  checked  to  see  if  I  was  still  behind  him.  I  followed  him,  panting,  sweat  trick  ling  down  my  arms  and  legs.  Brittle  gusts  of  dry  snow  swept  by  on  the  wind,  striking  my  face  like  handfuls  of  rice.  I  felt  engulfed  by  a  contest  that  was  growing  too  large  for  me-something  I'd  asked  for  but  doubted  that  I  could  carry  through.  My  companion  pushed  ahead  more  relentlessly  than  ever,  as  though  wishing  to  put  me  to  the  fi-  nal  test.  That  last  half  hour  was  per-  haps  the  worst  I've  known,  casually  unprepared  as  I  was-ill-shod,  badly  clothed,  and  lumbered  with  junk,  clawing  my  way  up  these  icy  slopes.  Finally  we  reached  thetopofthe  rise.  We  were  in  a  narrow  pass  flanked  by  slabs  of  rock  which  stood  metallic  and  blue  in  the  starlight.  I  seemed  to  sense  a  change  in  the  air,  a  curious  lift-  ing  of  pressure  as  though  some  great  obstacle  had  been  rolled  away.  There  was  also  a  faint  smell  of  charcoal,  woodsmoke,  and  mules,  and  an  inde-  finable  smell  of  pepper.  My  guide  drew  me  into  the  shadows  and  gestured  me  to  silence,  sticking  out  his  neck  and  sniffing  the  sky.  We  crouched  in  the  darkness,  listening.  I  heard  the  wind,  falling  water,  and  what  sounded  like  a  distant  gunshot.  'This  is  where  I  leave  you,&quot;  said  the  Frenchman.  He  appeared  a  little  more  cheerful  now.  &quot;The  frontier  is  between  those  rocks.  Follow  the  path  for  half  a  kilometre  and  you'll  come  to  a  little  farm.  Knock  on  the  door  and  you'll  be  among  your  friends.&quot;  IT  seemed  really  too  simple.  After  weeks  of  speculation  and  doubt,  and  these  last  two  exhaustive  days-just  a  gap  in  the  rocks  a  few  hundred  yards  ahead  of  me,  the  tiny  frontier  between  peace  and  war.  &quot;Move  slow  and  easy.  There  may  be  a  few  guards  about,  but  they  shouldn't  be  too  lively  on  a  night  like  this.  If  you're  challenged,  drop  every  thing  and  run  like  hell.  Good  luck,  then.  I  can  do  no  more.&quot;  But  there  was  no  opposition.  I  just  walkedtoward  the  rocks  and  slipped  between  them  as  though  on  an  evening  stroll.  A  narrow  path  led  downward  among  the  boulders.  Then,  after  about  half  a  kilometre,  just  as  the  Frenchman  had  said,  I  saw  a  little  farmhouse  and  knocked  on  the  door.  It  was  opened  by  a  young  man  with  a  rifle,  who  held  a  lantern  up  to  my  face.  I  noticed  he  was  wearing  the  Republican  armband.  &quot;I've  come  to  join  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Pase  usted,&quot;  he  answered.  I  was  back  in  537061696e,  with  a  winter  of  war  before  me."