ON  ANGELS  P  I  \\HE  death  of  God  left  the  angels  in  a  strange  position.  They  were  overtaken  suddenly  by  a  funda-  mental  question.  One  can  attempt  to  imagine  the  moment.  How  did  they  look  at  the  instant  the  question  in-  vaded  them,  flooding  the  angelic  con-  sciousness,  taking  hold  with  terrifying  force?  The  question  was,  &quot;What  are  angels?&quot;  New  to  questioning,  unaccustomed  to  terror,  unskilled  in  aloneness,  the  angels  (we  assume)  wept.  The  question  of  what  angels  &quot;are&quot;  has  a  considerable  history.  Swedenborg,  for  example,  talked  to  a  great  many  angels  and  faithfully  recorded  what  they  told  him.  Angels  look  like  human  beings,  Swedenborg  says.  &quot;That  angels  are  human  forms,  or  men,  has  been  seen  by  me  a  thousand  times.&quot;  And  again:  &quot;From  all  of  my  experience,  which  is  now  of  many  years,  I  am  able  to  state  that  angels  are  wholly  men  in  form,  having  faces,  eyes,  ears,  bodies,  arms,  hands,  and  feet.  ...&quot;  But  a  man  cannot  see  angels  with  his  bodily  eyes,  only  with  the  eyes  of  the  spirit.  Swedenborg  has  a  great  deal  more  to  say  about  angels,  all  of  the  highest  interest:  that  no  angel  is  ever  per-  mitted  to  stand  behind  another  and  look  at  the  back  of  his  head,  for  this  would  disturb  the  influx  of  good  and  truth  from  the  Lord;  that  angels  have  the  east,  where  the  Lord  is  seen  as  a  sun,  always  before  their  eyes;  and  that  angels  are  clothed  according  to  their  intelligence.  &quot;Some  of  the  most  in-  telligent  have  garments  that  blaze  as  if  with  flame,  others  have  garments  that  glisten  as  if  with  light;  the  less  intel-  ligent  have  garments  that  are  glistening  white  or  white  without  the  effulgence;  and  the  still  less  intelligent  have  gar-  ments  of  various  colors.  But  the  angels  of  the  inmost  heaven  are  not  clothed.&quot;  All  of  this  (presumably)  no  longer  obtains.  Gustav  Davidson,  in  his  useful  &quot;Dic-  tionary  of  Angels,&quot;  has  brought  to-  gether  much  of  what  is  known  about  angels.  Their  names  are  called:  the  angel  Elubatel,  the  angel  Friagne,  the  angel  Gaap,  the  angel  Hatiphas  (genius  of  finery),  the  angel  Murmur  (a  fallen  angel),  the  angel  Mattro,  the  angel  Or,  the  angel  Rash,  the  angel  San-  dalphon  (taller  than  a  five  hundred  years'  journey  on  foot),  the  angel  Smat.  Davidson  distinguishes  cate-  gories:  Angels  of  Quaking,  who  sur-  round  the  heavenly  throne;  Masters  of  Howling  andLords  of  Shouting,  whose  work  is  praise;  messengers,  mediators,  watchers,  and  warners.  Davidson's  &quot;Dictionary&quot;  is  a  very  large  book;  his  bibliography  lists  more  than  eleven  hundred  items.  The  former  angelic  consciousness  has  been  most  beautifully  described  by  Joseph  Lyons  (in  a  paper  titled  &quot;The  Psychology  of  Angels,&quot;  published  in  1957).  Each  angel,  Lyons  says,  knows  all  that  there  is  to  know  about  himself  and  every  other  angel.  &quot;No  angelcould  ever  ask  a  question,  because  questioning  proceeds  out  of  a  situation  of  not  know-  ing,  and  of  being  in  some  way  aware  of  not  knowing.  An  angel  cannot  be  curious;  he  has  nothing  to  be  curious  about.  He  cannot  wonder.  Knowing  all  that  there  is  to  know,  the  world  of  possible  knowledge  must  appear  to  him  as  an  ordered  set  of  facts  which  is  com-  pletely  behind  him,  completely  fixed  and  certain  and  within  his  grasp.  .  .  .&quot;  But  this,  too,  no  longer  obtains.  IT  is  a  curiosity  of  writing  about  an-  gels  that,  very  often,  one  turns  out  to  be  writing  about  men.  The  themes  are  twinned.  Thus  one  finally  learns  that  Lyons,  for  example,  is  really  writing  not  about  angels  but  about  schizophren-  ics-thinking  about  men  by  invoking  angels.  And  this  holds  true  of  much  other  writing  on  the  subject-a  point,  we  may  assume,  that  was  not  lost  on  the  angels  when  they  began  considering  their  new  relation  to  the  cosmos,  when  the  analogues  (Is  an  angel  more  like  a  quetzal  or  more  like  a  man?  Or  more  like  music?  )  were  being  handed  about.  We  may  further  assume  that  some  attempt  was  made  at  self-definition  by  function.  An  angel  is  what  he  does.  Thus  it  was  necessary  to  investigate  pos-  29  sible  new  roles  (you  are  reminded  that  this  is  impure  speculation).  After  the  lamentation  had  gone  on  for  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  whatever  the  angels  use  for  time,  an  angel  proposed  that  lamentation  be  the  function  of  angels  eternally,  as  adoration  was  formerly.  The  mode  of  lamentation  would  be  silence,  in  contrast  to  the  unceasing  chanting  of  Glorias  that  had  been  their  former  employment.  But  it  is  not  in  the  nature  of  angels  to  be  silent.  A  counter-proposal  was  that  the  an-  gels  affirm  chaos.  There  were  to  be  five  great  proofs  of  the  existence  of  chaos,  of  which  the  first  was  the  absence  of  God.  The  other  four  could  surely  be  located.  The  work  of  definition  and  explication  could,  if  done  nicely  enough,  occupy  the  angels  forever,  as  the  contrary  work  has  occupied  human  theologians.  But  there  is  not  much  en-  thusiasm  for  chaos  among  the  angels.  The  most  serious  because  most  rad-  ical  proposal  considered  by  the  angels  was  refusal-that  they  would  remove  themselves  from  being,  not  be.  The  tremendous  dignity  that  would  accrue  to  the  angels  by  this  act  was  felt  to  be  a  manifestation  of  spiritual  pride.  Re-  fusal  was  refused.  There  were  other  suggestions,  more  subtle  and  complicated,  less  so,  none  overwhelmingly  attractive.  I  saw  a  famous  angel  on  television;  his  garments  glistened  as  if  with  light.  He  talked  about  the  situation  of  angels  now.  Angels,  he  said,  are  like  men  in  some  ways.  The  problem  of  adoration  is  felt  to  be  central.  He  said  that  for  a  time  the  angels  had  tried  adoring  each  other,  as  we  do,  but  had  found  it,  fi-  nally,  &quot;not  enough.&quot;  He  said  they  are  continuing  to  search  for  a  new  princi-  ple. "