E  A  CAT'S~PAW!  LOSE  BIG  MONEY!  NYBODY  can  be  a  wiseacre  after  the  fact,  so  let's  get  one  thing  straight  at  the  outset.  In  chron-  icling  the  complications  that  arose  from  a  note  I  found  this  spring  in  a  bottle  on  Martha's  Vineyard,  I  am  not  whining  for  sympathy  or  seeking  to  condone  my  behavior.  If  a  totally  unselfish  gesture  to  a  stranger-a  benefaction,  really-  is  wrong,  then  I  was  culpable  and  rich-  ly  deserving  of  what  I  got.  Impulsive,  overly  sentimental  I  may  have  been,  but  never  throughout  the  ensuing  im-  broglio,  I  contend,  was  I  prompted  by  base  or  ignoble  motives.  On  the  con-  trary,  I  like  to  think  that,  though  an  innocent  dupe,  I  acquitted  myself  at  all  times  with  a  dignity,  a  gentility,  few  other  dupes  in  my  position  would  have  displayed.  That  is  what  I  like  to  think.  The  circumstances  under  which  I  discovered  the  note  couldn't  havebeen  less  dramatic.  I  was  strolling  along  [REDACTED]  Beach  on  the  Vineyard  one  morning  midway  between  Gay  Head  and  Zack's  Cliffs,  and  there,  squarely  in  my  path,  lay  a  flask  of  the  sort  that  usually  contains  stuffed  olives.  On  the  scrap  of  paper  inside,  in  a  clearly  juvenile  hand,  was  the  following:  &quot;My  name  is  Donald  Cropsey.  I  am  twelve  years  old.  Ilive  at  1322  Catalpa  Way,  Reliance,  [REDACTED].  I  have  been  visiting  on  Nantucket  fora  week.  I  threw  this  bottle  off  the  ferryboat  between  Nan-  tucket  and  Woods  Hole,  [REDACTED],  on  Saturday.  Please  write  me  a  note  tell-  ing  me  when  and  where  you  found  it.&quot;     Now,  twelve-year-old  boys,  and  es-  pecially  those  who  litter  the  shoreline  with  glass,  invariably  raise  my  hackles,  but  somehow  this  message  disarmed  me.  Its  style  was  direct  and  unaffected,  there  was  nothing  cringing  or  sub-  servient  about  it,  and  it  exuded  a  man-  ly  independence  characteristic  of  the  wide-awake  youngsters  that  Horatio  Alger  and  Oliver  Optic  used  to  por-  tray.  I  therefore  pocketed  the  note-  figuratively,  that  is,  since  I  wore  only  bathing  trunks-and  later  in  the  day  complied  with  Donald's  request.  After  recounting  how  it  had  reached  me,  I  felicitated  him  on  his  vigorous,  clean-  cut  rhetoric  and  his  astuteness  in  modelling  himself  on  such  masters  of  English  prose  as  Hazlitt  and  Defoe.  Lest  his  ego  become  inflated,  however,  I  hastened  to  point  out  that  his  hand-  writing  was  sorely  deficient.  &quot;You  will  forgive  me  if  I  speak  quite  bluntly,  my  boy,&quot;  I  wrote,  &quot;but  this  progres-  sive-school  script  of  yours  demeans  you.  I  cannot  stress  too  strongly  the  im-  portance  of  good  calligraphy  in  molding  your  future.  A  firm  business  hand  with  well-shaped  capitals  is  a  prerequisite  in  every  field,  be  it  the  counting  house,  a  mercantile  establishment,  or  a  profes-  sion  like  law  or  medicine.  I  suggest,  accordingly,  that  you  proceed  with  all  dispatch  to  perfect  yourself  in  the  exer-  cise  known  as  Hammond  arm  move-  ment,  keeping  the  wrist  flexible  at  all  times  and  practicing  the  letter'D  lying  on  its  side.&quot;  As  I  weighed  the  foregoing  prior  to  sealing  the  letter,  it  struck  me  that  a  few  words  of  counsel  to  thelad  on  his  reading  would  not  be  amiss.  I  rec-  ommended,  hence,  that  he  familiarize  himself  with  all  the  works  of  Henty,  with  the  stories  of  Harry  Castlemon  (&quot;Frank  at  Vicksburg,&quot;  &quot;Frank  on  a  Gunboat,&quot;  etc.),  with  Ralph  Henry  Barbour's  &quot;Around  the  End,&quot;  and  with  anything  by  Altsheler  he  could  find.  He  might  also  browse  through  the  files  of  Hearst's  American  W  eekly  with  profit,  I  added,  quoting  examples  ofthe  curious  lore  to  be  found  there-the  S.S.  Vaterland  posed  vertically  against  the  Singer  Building  to  contrast  their  size,  the  eye  of  the  common  housefly  mag-  nified  a  hundredfold,  the  milk  baths  and  other  beauty  secrets  of  Lina  Cava-  lieri  and  Gaby  Deslys,  the  advice  on  physical  fitness  from  Jess  Willard,  and  the  disclosures  about  high  society's  Four  Hundred  by  Count  Boni  de  Castel-  lane.  In  closing,  I  extended  warm  wishes  and  urged  him  to  put  his  best  foot  forward,  his  shoulder  to  the  wheel,  and  his  nose  to  the  grind-  stone-a  pose  guaranteed  to  excite  the  compassion  of  influential  folk  who  might  help  him  inhis  career.  I  HAD  quite  forgotten  the  episode  when,  a  month  later  in  New  York,  I  received  a  letter  from  a  Mrs.  Rhonda  Cropsey.  Writing  on  the  stationeryof  a  midtown  hotel,  she  identified  herself  as  Donald's  mother  and  thanked  me  effusively  for  my  epistle.  She  had  taken  the  liberty  of  opening  it,  inasmuch  as  herson  was  in  El  Moribundo,  Cali-  fornia,  visiting  his  father,  from  whom  she  was  estranged.  So  brilliant,  so  truly  inspired  was  my  letter  that  before  for-  warding  it  she  had  made  a  copy,  which  she  reread  daily  until  every  syllable  was  engraved  on  her  heart.  &quot;What  a  wonderful  person  you  must  be,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;A  kind  of  saint,  I  imagine,  Who  else  would  trouble  to  reply  to  a  child  they  didn't  know,  or     31  bother  to  outline  a  program  of  studies  to  enlarge  the  little  fellow's  horizon?  Never  in  all  my  twenty-eight  years-  yes,  I  am  that  young,  even  if  I  sound  like  an  old  fuddy-duddy-have  I  felt  such  gratitude  to  an  individual.  Ireally  would  do  anything  to  reward  them.  .  ..  But  here  I  am  wasting  your  valuable  time  with  my  silly-billy  compliments;  I  guess  I  just  can't  help  'fessing  up  to  hero  worship  if  I  feel  same.  Anyway,  the  reason  for  my  contacting  you  at  present  is  that  I  am  in  your  bailiwick  a  day  or  two  shopping  for  some  feminine  'frillies'  and  wonder  could  we  meet  for  five  minutes  to  discuss  little  Don's  next  educational  step.  Won't  you  ring  me  very  soon,  pretty  please?&quot;  Well,  that  put  me  on  the  spot  for  fair.  Here  was  a  doting  mama,  un-  doubtedly  a  frump  from  backwoods  [REDACTED],  thirsting  to  talk  me  deaf,  dumb,  and  blind  about  her  precious  darling,  and  yet  to  ignore  her  appeal  would  be  tantamount  to  a  slap  in  the  face.  I  stewed  over  the  problem  for  a  good  ten  minutes  and  finally  had  an  inspiration.  I'd  humor  the  woman  and  phone,  but  avoid  any  confrontation,  wheedle  or  coax  me  though  she  might.  &quot;Hello?  ...  Yes,  this  is  Rhonda  Cropsey.&quot;  The  voice  wasn't  at  all  what  I'd  expected.  It  was  low-pitched  and  cool,  and  there  was  a  delicious  tremor  in  it  that  made  one's  spine  tingle.  &quot;O-oh,  can  it  really  be  you?&quot;  &quot;Who  else?&quot;  I  stammered.  &quot;I  mean-hello.  Yes,  it's  me.  Look--  er-I've  just  had  acancellation.  I'm  terribly  busy  asa  rule,  but  I  could  be  at  some  central  point  like  the  Plaza  bar  in  half  an  hour,  if  that's  not  inconvenient  for  you.&quot;  Not  in  the  least,  she  quickly  assured  me-that  would  be  ideal.  I  then  gave  her  painstaking,  explicit  in-  structions  asto  which  bar  I  meant,  in  case  she  blundered  into  the  Palm  Court  or  the  Edwardian  Room.  Actually,  my  fears  were  groundless;  far  from  a  flibbertigibbet,  Mrs.  Cropsey  proved  to  be  not  only  alert  but  a  demure  and  strikinglyattractive  young  matron.  If  her  figure  was  a  shade  too  sensual  for  true  beauty,  it  was  compensated  for  by  features  that  some  Pre-Raphaelite  painter-Burne-J  ones  or  Dante  Gabri-  el  Rossetti-might  have  limned.  Under  a  wealth  of  corn-colored  hair  worn  in  a  snood,  a  pair  of  blueeyes  looked  out  at  the  world  with  such  trustful  innocence  that  it  wrung  your  heart.  Her  lack  of  sophistication  became  further  evident  when  I  asked  what  beverage  she  fan-  cied.  &quot;I-I've  never  tasted  anything  " b"stronger  than  fruit  juice,&quot;  she  con-  fessed  shamefacedly.  &quot;That  cocktail  you're  having-a  Side  Car-what  is  it?&quot;  I  explained  it  was  a  mild  digestive,  compounded  of  the  merest  trace  of  brandy  and  a  drop  of  Cointreau,  and,  reassured,  she  ordered  one  also.  In  a  few  moments,  our  initial  constraint  had  vanished  and  we  were  chatting  away  like  old  friends.  It  seemed  hardly  pos-  sible,  I  remarked,  that  one  so  girlish  could  have  a  twelve-year-old  son,  and  she  was  equally  incredulous  at  my  laughing  admission  that  I  was  past  thir-  ty.  From  the  wisdom,  the  magnanim-  ity  implicit  in  my  letter  to  Donald,  she  was  prepared  for  a  man  twice,  if  not  thrice,  my  years.  &quot;Gracious,  what  a  difference  be-  tween  you  and  that  husband  of  mine!&quot;  she  murmured,  a  shadow  of  pain  con- torting  her  lovely  forehead.  &quot;Do  you  know  thatthat  swine  used  to  beat  me  black  and  blue?&quot;  Since  I  had  never  laid  eves  on  the  swine  in  question,  I  felt  ill-equipped  to  pass  judgment,  so,  limiting  my  reac-  tionto  a  pitying  headshake,  I  ordered  another  round  of  drinks  and  deftly  steered  the  conversation  to  her  son.  Precisely  what  advice  did  she  seek  from  me  about  his  schooling?  A  guilty  blush  suffused  Mrs.  Cropsey's  cheek,  and  she  hung  her  head  penitently.  Con-  cerned  as  she  was  for  the  boy's  welfare,  she  admitted  to  an  ulterior  motive  in  approaching  me.  She  had  tentatively  se-  lected  a  number  of  frocks,  suits,  and     coats  at  a  Fifth  [REDACTED]  store  and  wanted  me,  her  sole  friend  in  New  York  and  a  man  of  faultless  discrimina-  tion  and  taste,  to  choose  the  most  be-  coming  from  among  them.  She  realized  it  was  a  dreadful  imposition,  she  was  already  indebted  to  me  beyond  meas-  ure,  but  this  one  final  boon  would  for-  ever  enshrine  me  in  her  affections,  el-  evate  me  to  Olympus.  ...In  vain  I  protested  my  inadequacy  to  judge  fem-  inine  fashions;  the  more  vehement  I  grew,  the  more  insistent  she  became,  and  at  last,  succumbing  to  a  mixture  of  cajolery  and  Side  Cars,  I  broke  down  and  assented.  In  actual  fact,  the  decisions  Mrs.  Cropsey  exacted  of  me  turned  out  to  be  trifling  enough.  I  ran  my  eye  expertly  over  the  garments  she  was  considering,  compared  various  details  of  design  and  workmanship,  and  unerringly  chose  " b"the  best.  The  salesladies  were  frankly  awed  at  my  acumen,  doubtless  suppos-  ing  that  I  was  some  biggie  from  the  garment  center.  So  harmonious  was  the  at-  mosphere  and  so  obliging  the  staff  that  my  compan-  ion  bought  a  few  other  articles-an  expensive  neg-  ligee,  a  couple  of  imported  handbags,  six  pairs  of  shoes,  and  some  diamond  clips  suitable  for  sportswear.  At  her  request,  and  fora  bumper  fee,  all  the  pur-  chases  were  dispatched  by  messenger  to  her  hotel,  and  a  floorwalker,  rubbing  his  hands  and  bowing  obsequi-  ously,  escorted  us  to  the  credit  office,  where  she  was  to  make  payment.  Suddenly,  as  she  was  rummaging  in  her  bag,  she  emitted  a  startled  exclamation.  &quot;My  traveller's  checks!&quot;  she  gasped.  &quot;They're  gone-  they've  been  stolen!  No-  no-wait!  I  remember  now  -I  left  them  behind  at  the  hotel.&quot;  RUMMING  his  fin-  gers  on  the  desktop,  [REDACTED]  Mandamus,  my  lawyer,  regarded  me  fixed-  ly  for  several  seconds  over  his  glasses.  &quot;I  see,&quot;  he  said  with  infinite  sympa-  thy.  &quot;So  you  helpedher  out,  I  take  it.  You  wrote  a  check  for  the  amount  and  then  returned  to  her  hotel  so  she  could  reimburse  you.&quot;  I  stared  at  him  nonplussed.  &quot;How  did  you  know?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  just  instinct.&quot;  His  smile  radi-  ated  sheer  benevolence.  &quot;Now,  let  me  guess.  When  you  got  there,  Mrs.  Crop-  sey  remembered  something  else.  She  hadn't  left  her  checks  in  thehotel  safe,  as  she  thought  at  first,  but  in  her  room.  So  you  accompanied  her  upstairs  right?&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  a  room-it  was  a  suite,&quot;  I  corrected.  &quot;She  had  a  living  room  with  a  pantry,  a  bedroom-&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes,I  know  what  a  suite  is,&quot;  he  said  impatiently.  &quot;Anyhow,  there  was  a  fifth  of  Scotch  and  some  ice  in  the  pantry,  so  she  invited  you  to  fix  a  drink  while  she  went  into  the  bedroom  to  fetch  the  checks.&quot;  &quot;This  is  uncanny!&quot;  I  exclaimed.  &quot;I  swear,  you  sound  as  though  you'd  been  there  the  whole  time.&quot;  &quot;If  I  had,  Buster,  you  wouldn't  be  sitting  here  now  with  an  ashen  face,&quot;  he  rejoined.  &quot;One  minor  point,  though.  How  did  you  reconcile  the  bottle  of  hooch  with  the  lady's  earlier  statement  that  she  never  drank  anything  strong-  er  than  fruit  juice?&quot;  &quot;Why-uh-it  didn't  occur  to  me,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  may  have  been  a  little  fuzzy  from  the  Side  Cars.&quot;  &quot;And  the  strain  of  shopping  and  all.&quot;  He  nodded  benignly,.  &quot;But  I  imagine  the  fuzziness  evaporated  pron-  to  when  Mrs.  Cropsey  reappeared,  eh?  Weren't  you  startled  that  she  had  slipped  into  something  more  comfort-  able-something  clinging  and  filmy?&quot;  &quot;Great  Scott,  man,  you  must  be  clairvoyant!&quot;  I  marvelled.  &quot;Matter  of  fact,  I  was  bowled  over,  But  then,  on  top  of  everything,  before  I  could  catch  my  breath,  those  two  hooligans  with  the  camera  burst  in.  Therewas  this  blinding  fash-&quot;  &quot;You  needn't  go  on,&quot;he  interrupt-  ed.  &quot;It's  cut  and  dried,  a  standard  pro-  cedure.  Did  the  fair  one  break  into  hys-  terical  sobs  after  they  left  and  lock  herself  in  the  bedroom?&quot;  &quot;\xc2\xa9You  took  the  words  out  of  my  mouth,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  hammered  on  the  door  for  over  half  an  hour,  but  not  a  tumble  did  I  get.  That  was  the  last  of  Rhonda  Cropsey.&quot;  &quot;Not  quite,&quot;  replied  Mandamus  gently.  &quot;In  case  you  still  don't  know  the  score,  it  becomes  my  painful  duty  to  enlighten  you.  You  are  currently  a  corespondent  in  the  divorce  action  of  Cropsev  v.  Cropsey,  and  a  large,  angry  department  store  whose  check  you  stopped  is  suing  you  for  eleven  hundred  and  cighty-five  dollars  in  merchan-  dise.  I  wonder  whether  you've  learned  anything  from  this  experience.&quot;  I  certainly  had,  though  I  wouldn't  admit  it  to  that  shyster.  The  next  time  I  see  a  bottle  on  a  beach-or  any-  where  else-I  intend  to  compress  my  lips  in  a  thin  line  and  kick  it  out  of  my  path.  And  that  goes  for  all  twelve-  year-old  brats  on  the  Nantucket  boat  and  their  blasted  mothers.  "