THE  OLD  FRIENDS  ART  of  the  plot  of  their  friend-  ship,  the  reason  for  it,  is  that  the  police  commissioner  has  become  an  old  bachelor  now,  and  his  life  rests  upon  other  lives.  He  rests  upon  people  for  whom  he  is  not  really  responsible.  Helena  is  by  far  the  most  important.  She  is  important  quite  in  herself,  be-  cause  anyone  with  television  in  this  part  of  [REDACTED]  knows  her  by  sight.  The  waitress,  just  now,  blushed  with  ex-  citement  when  she  recognized  her,  and  ran  to  the  kitchen  to  tell  the  others.  The  commissioner  and  Helena  have  been  friends  forever.  He  cannot  re-  member  when  or  how  they  met,  but  if  he  were  askedhe  would  certainly  say,  &quot;I  have  elways  known  her.&quot;  It  must  be  true:  look  at  how  charming  she  is  today-how  she  laughs  and  smiles,  and  gives  him  her  time;  oh,  scarcely  any,  if  the  minutes  are  counted,  but  as  much  as  he  needs,  enough.  She  is  younger  than  the  commissioner,  but  if  she  were  to  turn  away,  dismiss  him,  withdraw  her  life,  he  would  be  the  orphan.  Yes,  he  would  be  an  orphan  of  fifty-three.  It  is  the  greatest  possible  anxiety  he  can  imagine.  But  why  should  she?  There  is  no  quarrel  between  them.  If  ever  there  was,he  has  forgotten  it.  It  was  never  put  into  words.  He  is  like  any  police-  man;  he  knows  one  meaning  for  every  word.  When,  sometimes,  he  seems  to  have  transgressed  a  private  rule  of  hers,  it  is  outside  the  limits  of  the  words  he  knows,  and  he  simply  cannot  see  what  he  has  done.  She  retreats.  In  a  second,  the  friendship  dissolves,  and,  without  understanding  why  he  deserves  it,  he  is  orphaned  and  alone.  When  the  weather  suits  her  and  she  has  nothing  urgent  to  do,  she  lets  him  drive  her  to  a  garden  restaurant  on  a  height  of  land  above  [REDACTED].  It  is  in  a  suburb  of  quiet  houses  &quot;like  being  in  the  moun-  tains,&quot;  he  says.  He  sniffs  the  air,  to  demonstrate  how  pure  it  is.  &quot;But  you  really  should  come  here  at  night,&quot;  he  says;  for  then  the  swimming  pool  in  each  of  the  gardens  is  lighted  blue,  green,  ultramarine.  The  com-  missioner  flew  over  in  a  helicopter  once,  and  it  looked  ...it  was  ...it  should  have  been  photographed  ...or  painted...  ifit  had  been  painted  .  ..  described  by  Goethe,  he  cries,  it  could  not  have  been  more  ...  &quot;Tell  us  about  Goethe,&quot;  Helena  in-  terrupts,  laughing.  She  has  brought  her  little  boy  along.  The  three  of  them  sit  at  a  table  spread  with  a  clean  pink  cloth.  On  a  silver  dish,  andon  still  another  pink  cloth,  this  one  embroidered,  are  wedges  of  chocolate  cake,  and  mocha  butter  cakes,  and  Linzer  Torte,  and  meringue  shells  filled  with  whipped  cream,  sprinkled  with  pink,  green,  yellow  sugar.  The  champagne  in  the  silver  bucket  is  for  the  commissioner  and  Helena.  There  is  no  view  from  here,  not  even  of  swimming  pools.  They  are  walled  in  by  flowering  shrubs.  It  is  a  pity,  he  says,  for  if  they  could  only  see  ...  &quot;'Tell  the  child  what  all  these  flowers  are  called,&quot;  Helena  interrupts.  But  the  commissioner  does  not  know  their  names.  He  knows  what  roses  or  tulips  are,  but  most  flowers  have  names  he  has  never  needed  to  know.  Flowers  are  pale  mauve  or  yellow  in  spring,  blues  or  yellow  as  summer  wears  on,  and  in  the  autumn  orange,  yellow,  and      red.  On  a  hot  autumn  day,  the  garden  seems  picked  out  in  bright  wool,  like  a  new  carpet.  The  wine,  the  cakes,  the  thin  silver  vase  of  bitter-smelling  blooms  (&quot;Nasturtiums,&quot;  he  suddenly  cries  out,  slapping  the  table,  remember-  ing)  attract  all  the  wasps  in  the  neigh-  borhood.  He  is  afraid  for  Helena-  imagine  a  sting  on  that  white  skin!  He  tries  to  cut  a  wasp  in  two  with  a  knife,  misses,  captures  another  in  the  child's  empty  glass.  &quot;The  child  needs  men,  you  see,&quot;  Helena  goes  on.  &quot;He  needs  men  to  tell  him  what  things  are.  He  is  always  with  women.&quot;  Somewhere  in  her  career  sheac-  quired  this  little  boy.  She  doesnot  say  who  thefather  is,  but  even  when  she  was  pregnant,  enormous,  the  commis-  sioner  never  asked.  He  treated  the  situation  with  great  tact,  as  if  she  had  a  hideous  allergy.It  would  have  been  a  violation  of  their  friendship  to  have  pried.  The  rumor  is  that  the  father  was  an  American,  but  not  a  common  drunken  one,  an  Occupation  leftover-no,  it  was  someone  high-  ly  placed,  worthy  of  her.  The  child  is  a  good  little  boy,  never  troublesome.  He  eats  his  cakes  with  a  teaspoon,  and  it  is  a  wobbly  performance.  His  fingers  come  into  it  sometimes;  thenhe  licks  them.  He  scrapes  up  all  the  chocolate  on  his  plate,  because  his  mother  dislikes  the  sight  of  wasted  food.  &quot;I  mean  it.  Talk  to  him,&quot;  Helena  says.  She  may  be  teasing;  but  she  could  be  serious,  too.  &quot;Child,&quot;  says  the  obedient  commissioner.  &quot;Do  you  know  why  champagne  overflows  when  the  cork  is  taken  out  of  the  bottle?&quot;  &quot;No,  why?&quot;  says  Helena,  answering  for  her  son.  The  commissioner  re-  flects,  then  says,  &quot;Be-  cause  air  got  in  the  bot-  tle.&quot;  &quot;You  see?&quot;  she  tells  the  boy.  &quot;This  is  why  you  need  men.&quot;  She  is  laughing,  so  she  must  be  pleased.  She  is  giving  the  commis-  sioner  her  attention,  On  crumbs  like  these,  her  laughter,  her  attention,  he  thinks  he  can  live  for-  ever,  Even  when  she  was  no  one,  when  she  was  a  little  actress  who  " b"28  would  travel  miles  by  train,  sit-  ting  up  all  n  ight,  for  some  minor,  poorly  pai  d  job,  he  could  live  on  what  she  gave  him.  She  can  be  so  amusing  when  s  he  wants  to  be.  She  is  from-he  thinks-Silesia,  but  she  can  speak  in  any  d  ialect  ,  from  any  region.  She  recites  for  him  now,  for  him  alone,  as  if  he  mat-  tered,  Schiller's  &quot;The  Glove&quot;-  first  in  Bavarian,  then  in  Low  B  er-  lin,  then  like  an  East  German  at  a  radio  audition,  then  in  a  Hessian  ac-  cent  like  his  own.  He  hears  himself  in  her  voice,  and  she  gets  no  farther  than  &quot;Und  w  ie  er  winkt  mit  dem  Finger,&quot;  be  cause  he  is  laughing  so  that  he  has  a  pain;  he  weeps  with  it.  He  has  to  cross  his  arms  over  h  is  chest  to  c  ontain  the  pain  o  f  his  laughter.  And  all  the  while  he  knows  she  is  enter-  taining  Aim-as  if  he  were  paying  her!  He  wipes  his  ey  es,  picks  up  his  fork,  and  just  as  he  is  trying  to  de-  sc  ribe  t  he  quality  of  the  laughter  (&quot;like  pleurisy,  l  ike  a  h  eart  attack,  like  indiges-  tion&quot;  ),  she  says,  &quot;  I  ca  n  do  a  Yiddish  ac-  cent  fr  om  Silesia.  I  try  to  imagine  my  grandmother's  voice.  I  must  have  heard  it  before  she  was  killed.&quot;  She  has  left  him;  he  is  alone  in  the  garden.  He  does  not  kno  w  the  word  for  anything  anymore.  He  has  forgot-  ten  how  one  says  &quot;hedge&quot;  or  &quot;wasp&quot;  or  &quot;nas  tur  tium  .&quot;  He  d  oes  not  know  the  reason  for  the  transparent  yellow  light  i  n  his  glass.  Everything  assembled  to  please  her  has  been  a  mistake:  the  flowers  on  the  table  smell  too  strong;  the  ice  in  the  bucket  is  melting  because  t  he  sun,  too  hot,  is  straight  upon  it;  and  the  bottle  of  champagne,  half  empty,  ti  pped  to  one  side  ,  afloat,  is  in-  adequate  and  vulgar.  He  looks  at  the  red  trace  of  the  rasp  berry  cake  he  had  only  just  started  to  eat,  at  the  small  two-pronged  fork,  at  the  child's  roun  d  chin-he  daren't  look  at  Helena.  He  discovers  a  crumb  in  his  throat.  He  w  ill  choke  to  death,  perhaps,  but  he  is  afraid  to  pick  up  his  glass.  Her  e  he  is  now,  a  man  in  h  is  fifties,  &quot;a  serious  person,&quot;  he  reminds  him  self,  in  a  bright  garden,  unable  to  swallow  a  crumb.  She  sits  smoking,  telling  herself  she  doesn't  need  h  im-that  is  what  he  imagines.  T  he  commissioner  is  nothing  to  her,  a  waste  of  time.  It  is  a  wonder  she  sees  him  at  all.  He  fee  ls  the  garden  going  round  a  nd  round,  like  the  resta  u-  rant  in  [REDACTED]  that  revolves  on  i  ts  hub.  He  would  have  taken  her  there  often  if  she'd  allowed  it.  He  likes  spending  money  on  her,  being  reckless;  and  also,  when  he  gives  his  card,  the  headwaiter  and  all  the  waiters  know  the  commissioner  and  Helena  are     friends.  But  the  restaurant  is  too  high  up;  it  m  akes  her  il  l  and  giddy  just  to  look  out  the  wi  ndow.  And  an  yway  she  has  enough  public  i  ty;  she  d  oesn't  need  to  have  a  waiter  bo  w  and  stare.  What  can  he  do  for  her?  Nothing,  and  th  at  is  what  makes  her  so  careless-why  she  sai  d  the  wounding  thing  just  now  that  made  him  feel  left  out  and  alone.  Oh,  that  grandmother!  That  mother!  She  has  a  father  some-  where,  al  ive,  but  she  shrugs  wh  en  she  mentions  h  im,  as  if  the  living  were  of  no  use  to  her.  T  he  commis  -  sioner  knows  nothing  about  the  mother  and  grandmother.  He  never  met  them.  But  he  knows  th  at  where  Helena  was  concerned  a  serious  injustice  was  com-  mitted,  a  mistake;  for  ,  when  she  was  scarcely  older  than  the  child  at  this  table,  she  was  dragged  th  rough  transit  camps  on  the  fringes  of  [REDACTED],  without-thank  God-arriving  at  he  r  destination.  He  has  gone  over  it  so  many  times  that  her  dossier  is  stamped  on  his  mind,  as  if  he  had  see  n  it,  typed  and  signed,  on  che  ap  brownish  w  ar-  time  paper,  in  a  folder  tied  with  ribbo  n  tape.  To  the  dossier  he  adds:  (One)  She  should  never  have  been  arrested.  She  was  only  a  child.  (Two)  She  is  partly  Jewish,  but  how  much  and  which  p  art-h  e  r  fingers?  Her  ha  ir?  (Thre  e)  She  s  hould  never  have  b  een  sent  ou  t  of  the  country  to  mingle  with  Poles,  Slovaks,  and  so  on.  Anything  migh  t  have  ha  ppened  to  her.  This  was  an  error  so  grave  that  if  the  func-  tio  nary  who  committed  it  were  ever  found  and  tried,  the  commissioner  would  testify  against  hi  m.  Yes,  he  wo  uld  risk  everything-his  career,  his  pen  sion,  a  nonymous  let  ters  ,  just  to  say  what  he  thinks:  &quot;A  serious  mistake  w  as  made,&quot;  Meanwhile,  she  sits  and  smokes,  thinking  she  doesn't  need  him,  ready  at  any  second  to  give  him  up.  6  I  HE  proportion  of  Jews  in  the  pop-  ulation  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  is  .04,  and  Helena,  being  something  of  a  frac-     tion  herself  (her  fingers?  her  hair?  ),  is  popular,  much  loved,  and  greatly  solic-  ited.  She  is  the  pet,  the  kitten-ours.  She  wasted  her  lunchtime  today  on  an  interview  for  an  English  paper,  for  a  special  series  on  Jews  in  [REDACTED].  Through  an  interpreter  (insisted  upon  by  Helena;  having  everything  said  twice  gives  her  time)  she  told  a  story  that  has  long  ago  ceased  to  be  personal,  and  then  the  gaunt  female  reporter  turned  her  head  and  said,  filtering  her  question  through  a  microphone,  &quot;And  was  the  child?  ...in  these  camps?  ...  sexually?  .  .  .  molested?&quot;  Rape  is  so  important  to  these  people,  Helena  has  learned;  it  is  the  worst  humiliation,  the  most  hideous  ordeal  the  Englishwoman  can  imagine.  She  is  thinking  of  maniacs  in  parks,  little  children  attacked  on  their  way  to  the  swimming  pool.  &quot;Destruction&quot;  is  meaningless,  and  in  any  case  Helena  is  here,  alive,  with  her  hair  brushed,  and  blue  on  her  eyelids-not  destroyed.  But  if  the  child  was  sexually  molest-  ed,  then  we  all  know  where  we  are.  We  will  know  that  a  camp  was  a  ter-  rible  place  to  be,  and  that  there  are  things  Helena  can  never  bring  herself  to  tell.  Helena  said,  &quot;It  was  forbidden.&quot;  The  interviewer  looked  at  her.  Do  you  call  that  a  bad  experience,  she  seemed  to  be  thinking.  She  turned  off  the  tape  recorder.  &quot;Rape  would  have  meant  one  was  a  person,&quot;  Helena  might  have  gone  on  " b"to  say.  Or,  &quot;There  wasn't  that  so  rt  of  con  tact.&quot;  She  has  been  wondering  for  y  ears  now  exactly  what  it  is  they  all  want  to  hear.  They  want  to  know  that  i  t  could  no  t  have  been  worse,  b  ut  some-  how  it  never  seems  bad  e  nough  .  Only  her  friend  ,  the  commissioner,  accepts  at  once  that  it  was  beyond  his  imagina-  tion,  and  that  the  knowledge  can  pro-  duce  nothing  more  than  a  pain  like  the  suffering  of  laughter-like  pleurisy,  like  indiges  tion.  He  would  like  it  to  have  been,  somehow,  n  ot  German.  When  she  sa  ys  that  she  was  mo  ved  through  transit  camps  on  the  edge  of  the  old  [REDACTED],  then  he  can  say,  &quot;So,  most  of  it  was  on  foreign  soil!&quot;  He  wants  to  hear  how  hated  the  guards  were  when  they  were  Slovak,  or  [REDACTED].  The  vast  complex  of  camps  in  Silesia  is  on  land  that  has  become  Polish  now,  so  it     is  as  if  those  camps  had  never  been  German  at  all.  Each  time  she  says  a  foreign  place-name,  he  is  forgiven,  ab-  solved.  What  does  it  matter  to  her?  Reality  was  confounded  long  ago.  She  even  invents  her  dreams.  When  she  says  she  dreams  of  a  camp  exactly  re-  produced,  no  one  ever  says,  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  Her  true  dream  is  of  purifica-  tion,  of  the  river  never  profaned,  from  which  she  wakes  astonished-for  the  real  error  was  not  that  she  was  sent  away  but  that  she  is  here,  in  a  garden,  alive.  IS  failing,  as  a  friend,  is  his  memo-  ry.  He  thinks  she  has  three  birth-  days  a  year,  and  that  he  has  known  her  forever.  They  met  on  a  train,  in  Austria,  between  [REDACTED]  and  Salz-  burg.  He  thinks  she  was  always  fa-  Co  mous,  but  he  has  for-  gotten  that  she  was  just  beginning,  bare-  ly  known,  so  anxiously  dressed  that  sometimes  people  thought  she  was  a  prostitute.  'They  were  alone  in  a  compartment.  He  sat  with  his  hands  on  his  knees,  and  she  re-  members  his  large  cuff-  links  and  his  large  square  ring.  He  was  like  the  economic  miracle  not  yet  at  its  climax  of  fat.  Or  he  had  been  obese  a  long  time  ago-she  saw,  around  him,  the  ghost  of  a  padded  man.  He  talked  very  seriously  about  the  economic  life  of  every  town  they  passed,  as  if  he  knew  about  it,  but  the  one  thing  she  could  recognize,  whatever  its  disguise,  was  a  police-  man.  It  makes  her  laugh  now  to  think  of  the  as-  surance  with  which  he  asked  his  first  questions:  Are  you  married?  What  do  you  do?  Why  were  you  in  [REDACTED]?  She  had  been  recording  a  play  for  a  broadcast.  She  was  just  beginning,  and  would  travel  anywhere,  overnight,  never  first  class.  She  thought  he  had  recognized  her-that  he  had  seen  her,  some-  where,  once.  The  card  she  gave  him,  with  her  name  engraved,  was  new.  He  studied  the  card  for  minutes,  and  ran  his  thumb  over  it  absently.  &quot;And  in  [REDACTED]  you  will  be  .  ..?&quot;  &quot;A  tourist.&quot;  To  make  the  conversa-  tion  move  faster,  and  to  tease,  toin-  vent,  to  build  a  situation  and  bring  it  crashing  down,  she  said,  &quot;No  one  is  expecting  me.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  expected  anywhere?&quot;  &quot;Not  until  Monday.  I  live  in  Frank-  furt.&quot;  He  looked  out  the  window  for  some  time.  He  put  the  card  in  his  pocket  and  sat  with  the  tips  of  his  fingers  pressed  together.  &quot;If  no  one  is  waiting  for  you,&quot;  he  said  finally,  &quot;you  could  skip  [REDACTED]  and  come  on  to  Munich  with  me.  I  have  some  business  there,  so  I  would  be  busy  part  of  the  day.  But  I  am  free  in  the  evening,  and  it  is  a  very  lively  place.  We  could  go  to  a  night  " b"30  club.  There  is  one  like  a  stable;  you  drink  in  the  horses'  stalls.  In  the  day-  time,  you  could  go  to  a  museum.  There  is  a  very  good  museum  where  you  can  see  ancient  boats  made  out  of  hide,  and  you  can  see  the  oars.  There  are  guided  tours.  ..  .  The  guide  is  excellent!  And  the  station  hotel  is  very  good.  If  you  don't  want  to,  you  needn't  leave  the  station  at  all.  Then  we  could  both  be  in  [REDACTED]  on  Monday.  I  live  there  too.  No  one  is  meeting  me.  It  wouldn't  even  matter  if  we  were  seen  getting  off  the  train  to-  gether.&quot;  &quot;What  would  happen  if  I  went  to  Munich?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Would  you  give  me  money?&quot;  &quot;I?'  No.&quot;  &quot;Well,  no  money,  no  Munich.&quot;  What  went  over  his  face  was,  Let  me  straighten  this  out.  I  thought  you  were  one  sort  of  person,  but  it  seems  you  are  another.  What  can  this  mean?  &quot;Before  I  get  down  at  [REDACTED],  I  just  have  time  to  tell  you  a  funny  story,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  is  about  paying  for  things.  I  heard  it  when  I  was  a  child,  in  a  concentration  camp.&quot;  How  tense  they  become,  she  thought.  Just  say  two  words  and  they  stiffen,  as  if  they  had  been  touched  with  the  point  of  a  pin.  &quot;This  is  my  story.  A  poor  old  Jew  who  was  eating  his  lunch  out  of  a  piece  of  newspaper  happened  to  be  sitting  opposite  a  P  russi  a  n  officer  in  a  train.  The  train  was  going  to  .  ..  to  Breslau.  Af  ter  a  time  the  officer  said,  (Excuse  me,  b  ut  I  want  t  o  ask  you  a  question.  What  makes  you  Jews  so  clever,  so  that  you  always  have  the  advantage  over  us?  &quot;  'Why,  it  is  because  we  eat  carp  h  eads,'  s  aid  the  old  man.  'And  as  I  happen  to  have  one  here,  I  can  sell  it  to  you  for  thirty  marks?  The  officer  paid  for  the  fish  head,  and  ate  it  with  some  disgust.  After  a  time  he  sai  d,  'But  I  have  paid  you  thirty  marks  for  something  a  fishmonger  would  have  given  me  for  nothing!?  'There,  you  see?  &quot;  said  th  e  o  ld  man.  'It's  working!  &quot;  Her  innocent  eyes  never  left  his  face.  He  looked  at  her,  so  bewildered,  so  perplexed.  What  we  nt  wrong  in  our  conversation,  he  seemed  to  be  saying.  Where  was  my  mistake?  Why  are  you  telling  me  this  old  story?  What  have  I  done?  He  was  red  when  he  bega  n  to  speak.  His  throat  u  nlocked  ,  and  he  said,  &quot;I  never  thought  I  sho  ul  d  offer  you  money,  Miss  Helena.  Excuse  me.  If  I  should  have,  then  I  apologize.  You  se  em  ...  a  woman  lik  e  you  ...  so  edu-  cated,  so  delicate  ...so  refined,  like  a  ...  Holbein.&quot;  All  this  in  his  Hes-  sian  accent,  which  she  was  already  re-  eording,  i  n  her  min  d,  for  her  own  use.      If  she  were  to  remind  him  now  about  that  man  on  the  train,  the  com-  missioner  would  say,  &quot;What  a  fool!  He  could  have  been  arrested.&quot;  She  imagines  the  commissioner  arrested,  still  on  the  train,  both  hands  against  the  pane  and  his  face  looking  out  be-  tween  them-the  anguish,  the  shock,  as  the  train  slid  off  and  he  wondered  what  he  had  done.  &quot;Now  do  you  see?&quot;  she  would  say  to  him.  &quot;Now  do  you  see  what  they  are  about-all  those  mis-  understandings?  You  are  that  man  too.&quot;  But  he  would  only  know  that  another  injustice  had  been  committed;  another  terrible  mistake.  N  their  conversations  there  is  only  one  context.  No  remark  is  ever  out  of  the  blue.  And  so,  when  she  leans  forward,  putting  her  cigarette  out,  at  the  table  spread  with  a  pink  cloth,  and  says,  &quot;I  was  never  raped,&quot;  he  does  not  look  surprised.  He  says,  &quot;When  you  were  in  those  places?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Rape  did  not  occur.  It  was,  in  fact,  utterly  forbidden.&quot;  Putting  out  the  cigarette  she  seems  to  lean  on  it.  He  knows  only  one  thing,  that  the  crisis  is  over.  He  has  come  through,  without  being  wounded.  Whatever  the  quarrel  was,  he  is  for-  given.  They  are  here,  with  the  child,  in  the  garden  restaurant,  with  the  flowers  like  colored  wool.  He  is  still  theold  bachelor  in  part  of  her  life.  Now  he  begins  to  understand  what  she  has  just  said-the  meaning  of  it.  He  would  like  to  stand  up  and  an-  nounce  it,  tap  his  fork  on  the  wine-  glass  and  when  he  had  everyone's  at-  tention  say  loudly,  so  that  he  could  be  heard  all  over  the  gardens  and  swim-  ming  pools,  &quot;Nothing  like  that  hap-  pened-nothing  at  all.  It  was  strictly,  utterly  forbidden!&quot;  He  finds  he  can  swallow-nothing,  at  first;  just  a  con-  traction  of  the  throat.  Then  he  swal-  lows  a  sip  of  his  drink.  He  picks  up  his  fork,  bites  a  piece  of  raspberry  cake,  swallows.  Tears  stand  in  his  eyes.  She  is  the  best  friend  he  could  ever  have  imagined.  She  has,  again,  brought  him  out  of  anxiety  and  confusion;  he  is  not  an  orphan.  When  she  lets  the  wasp  escape  from  the  glass  he  says  nothing.  He  knows  that  a  little  later  she  will  tell  him  why. "