 b"AS  I  YVALKED  OUT  ONE  MIDSUMMER  MORNING  II~INTO  SPAIN  when  the  ship  reached  the  harbor  of  Vigo  and  when  out  of  the  un-  conscious  rocking  of  sea  and  sleep  I  was  simultaneously  woken  and  hooked  to  the  coast  of  537061696e  by  the  rattling  anchor  going  over  the  side.  I  lay  for  a  while  in  the  anchored  silence  and  listened  to  the  first  faint  sounds  of  537061696e-a  howling  dog,  the  gasping  spasms  of  a  donkey,  the  thin  sharp  cry  of  a  cockerel.  Then  I  packed  and  went  up  onto  the  shining  deck,  and  the  Spanish  sun  rose,too,  and  for  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  saw,  looped  round  the  bay,  the  shape  of  a  foreign  city.  I'd  known  nothing  till  then  but  the  smoother  surfaces  of  [REDACTED],  and  Vigo  struck  me  like  an  apparition.  It  seemed  to  rise  from  the  sea  like  some  rust-corroded  wreck,  as  old  and  bleached  as  the  rocks  around  it.  There  was  no  smoke  or  movement  among  the  houses.  Everything  looked  bar-  nacled,  rotting,  and  deathly  quiet,  as  though  awaiting  the  return  of  the  Flood.  I  landed  in  a  town  submerged  by  wet  green  sunlight  and  smelling  ofthe  waste  of  the  sea.  People  lay  sleeping  in  doorways,  or  sprawled  on  the  ground,  like  bodies  washed  up  by  the  tide.  But  it  was  the  summer  of  1935,  I  was  in  537061696e,  and  the  new  life  begin-  ning.  A  year  earlier  I'd  left  home  in  Gloucestershire  and  walked  the  lonely  road  to  [REDACTED],  planning  to  see  the  world  and  to  make  my  fortune.  I  was  twenty-one  years  old,  had  a  few  shil-  lings  in  my  pocket,  andno  return  ticket;  I  had  a  knapsack,  blanket,  spare  shirt,  and  a  fiddle,  andenough  words  of  Spanish  to  ask  for  a  glass  of  water.  Soon  the  chill  of  dawn  left  me  and  I  began  to  feel  better.  The  drowned  men  rose  from  the  pavements  and  stretched  their  arms,  lit  cigarettes,  and  shook  the  night  from  their  clothes.  Bootblacks  appeared,  banging  their  brushes  together,  and  strange  vivid  girls  went  down  the  streets,  with  hair  like  coils  of  dripping  tar  and  large  mouths  red  and  savage.  Still  a  little  off  balance,  I  looked  about  me,  saw  obscure  dark  eyes  and  incomprehensible  faces,  crumbling  walls  scribbled  with  mysterious  graffiti,  an  armed  policeman  sitting  on  the  Town  Hall  steps,  and  a  photograph  of  Marx  in  a  barber's  window.  Nothing  I  knew  was  here,  and  perhaps  there  was  a  moment  of  panic-anyway  I  suddenly  felt  the  urge  to  get  moving.  So  I  cut  the  last  cord  and  changed  my  shillings  IT  was  early  and  still  almost  dark  for  pesetas,  bought  some  bread  and  fruit,  left  the  seaport  behind  me,and  headed  straight  for  the  open  country.  I  spent  the  rest  of  the  day  climbing  a  steep  terraced  valley,  then  camped  for  the  night  on  a  craggy  hilltop.  The  Galician  night  came  quickly:  the  hills  turned  purple,  and  the  valleys  flooded  with  heavy  shadow.  Sitting  on  that  hilltop,  my  teeth  chattering  as  the  night  wind  rose,I  saw  the  small  white  ship,  my  last  link  with  [REDACTED],  die  away  in  the  darkness.  I  found  a  rough  little  hollow  out  of  the  wind,  ate  some  bread  and  dates,  unrolled  the  blanket,  and  wrapped  my-  self  inside  it.  I  slept  little  that  night:  I  was  attacked  by  wild  dogs-or  they  may  have  been  Galician  wolves.  They  came  slinking  and  snarling  along  the  ridge  of  my  crater,  hackles  bristling  against  the  moon,  and  only  by  shouting,  throwing  stones,  and  flashing  my  torch  in  their  eyes  was  I  able  to  keep  them  at  bay.  Not  till  early  dawn  did  they  finally  leave  me  and  run  yelping  away  down  the  hillside,  when  I  fell  at  last  into  a  nightmare  doze,  feeling  their  hot  yellow  teeth  in  my  bones.  When  I  awoke  in  the  morning  it  was  already  light,  and  voices  were  screaming  at  one  another  in  the  valley.  I  looked  at  my  watch  and  it  was  six  o'clock,  and  I  was  heavily  drenched  in  dew.  I  wriggled  out  ofthe  blanket,  crawled  onto  the  ridge  and  lay  in  the  rising  sun,  and  was  met  by  the  resinous  smell  of  drying  bushes,  peppery  herbs,  and  stones.  As  I  warmed  my  stiff  limbs,  I  looked  down  the  valley  from  which  the  sharp  hard  cries  were  com-  ing,  and  saw  a  group  of  old  women,  as  black  as  charcoal,  slapping  out  sheets  along  the  banks  ofa  stream.  I  was  in  a  country  of  which  I  knew  nothing.  The  names  of  Velazquez,  Goya,  El  Greco,  Lope  de  Vega  were  unknown  to  me;  I'd  never  heard  of  the  Cordovan  Moors  or  the  Catholic  Kings;  nor  of  the  Alhambra  or  the  Escorial.  My  small  village  school  in  [REDACTED],  alwaysgenerous  with  its  in-  formation  asto  the  exports  of  Queens-  land  and  the  fate  of  Jenkins's  ear,  had  provided  me  with  nothing  more  use-  ful  about  537061696e  than  that  Seville  had  a  barber  and  Barcelona  had  nuts.  But  I  was  innocentthen  of  my  ig-  norance,  and  so  untroubled  by  it.  My  clothes  steamed  and  dried  as  the  sun  grew  stronger.  I  nibbled  some  bread  and  fruit,  rolled  my  things  in  a  bun-  dle,  and  washed  my  head  and  feet  in  a  raf  #==@  25  spring.  Then,  shoulder-  ing  my  burden,  and  still  avoiding  the  road,  I  took  a  track  southeast  for  Zamora.  For  three  or  four  days  I  followed  the  track  through  the  hills,  but  saw  only  occasional  signs  of  life-sometimes  a  shepherd's  hut,  or  a  distant  man  walking,  ora  solitary  boy  with  a  flock  of  goats-otherwise  no  sound  or  move-  ment  except  the  eagles  overhead  and  the  springs  gushing  out  of  the  rocks.  The  track  climbed  higher  into  the  clear,  cold  air,  and  I  just  followed  it,  hoping  to  keep  direction.  When  twilight  came,  I  curled  up  where  I  was,  too  exhausted  to  mind  the  cold.  All  I  remember  of  those  first  days  fromVigo  is  a  deliriously  sharpening  hunger,  an  appetite  so  keen  it  seemed  almost  a  pity  to  satisfy  it.  By  the  second  day  I'd  finished  my  bread  and  dates,  but  I  found  a  few  wild  grapes  and  ate  them  green,  and  also  the  remains  of  a  patch  of  beans.  In  a  village  square  I  came  on  a  great  studded  door  bearing  thesign  &quot;Posada  de  Nuestra  Sefiora.&quot;  I  pushed  the  door  open  and  entered  a  white-  washed  courtyard  hanging  with  gera-  niums  and  crowded  with  mules  and  asses.  There  was  bedlam  in  the  court-  yard-mules  stamping,  asses  braying,  chickens  cackling,  and  children  fight,  ing.  A  fat  old  crone,  crouching  by  a  fire  in  the  corner,  was  stirring  soup  in  a  large  black  cauldron,  and  as  she  seemed  to  be  in  charge  I  went  to  her  and  made  a  sign  for  food.  Without  a  word,  she  lifted  a  ladleful  ofthe  soup  and  held  it  up  to  my  mouth.  I  tasted  and  choked;  it  was  hot,  strong,  and  acrid  with  smoke  and  herbs.  The  old  lady  peered  at  me  sharply  through  the  fumes  ofthe  fire.  She  was  bent,  leather-skinned,  bearded  and  fanged.  I  wiped  my  burnt  mouth,  nodded  my  head,  and  said  &quot;Good&quot;  in  clear,  loud  English.  She  took  a  long  pull  herself,  her  mustached  lips  working,  her  eyes  rolling  back  in  her  skull.  Then  she  spat  briskly  into  the  fire,  turned  her  head  abruptly,  and  roared  out  in  a  deep,  hoarse  voice-  and  a  barefooted  boy,  dressed  only  in  a  shirt,  came  and  tugged  my  sleeve  and  led  me  to  see  the  bedrooms.  Later,  I  was  sitting  in  the  courtyard  under  the  swinging  light  bulbs,  hungri-  ly  watching  the  supper  cooking,  when  the  innkeeper  came  out,  a  towel  round  his  waist,  and  began  to  scrub  his  young  son  in  the  horse  trough.  The  infant  screamed,  the  old  crone  roared,  the  father  shouted,  sang,  and  lathered.  Then  suddenly,  as  by  a  whim,  he  shoved  the  child  under  the  water  and  " b"  left  him  to  see  what  he'd  do.  The  screams  were  cut  off  as  though  by  a  knife,  while  the  old  woman  and  the  father  watched  him.  In  a  fierce,  chok-  ing  silence  the  child  fought  the  water,  kicking  and  struggling  like  a  small  brown  frog,  eyes  open,  mouth  working,  his  whole  body  grappling  with  the  sud-  den  inexplicable  threat  of  death.  He  was  about  one  year  old,  but  for  a  mo-  ment  seemed  ageless,  facing  terror  alone  and  dumb.  Then,  just  as  he  was  about  to  give  in,  the  woman  picked  up  a  bucket  and  threw  it  at  the  father's  head,  and  at  that  he  snatched  up  the  child,  tossed  him  in  the  air,  smothered  him  with  kisses,  and  carried  him  away.  Supper  was  laid  at  last  on  the  long  wooden  table  set  out  under  the  open  sky.  When  it  was  ready,  the  innkeeper,  with  a  sweep  of  his  arm,  invited  me  to  join  them.  Carters  and  drovers  gath-  ered  quickly  round  the  table,  and  a  girl  dealt  out  loaves  to  each  of  us,  and  we  ate  the  stew  from  a  common  dish,  scooping  it  up  with  our  bread.  The  old  woman  sat  beside  me  and  roared  at  me  continuously,  pinching  my  legs  and  thumping  me  in  the  belly  and  urging  me  on  to  eat.  When  supper  was  over,  the  women  swept  the  dishes  away,  and  the  carters  curled  up  on  the  ground  to  sleep.  I  rose  from  my  chair  and  stumbled  away  to  my  room,  where  I  found  six  beds,  full  of  men  and  fleas.  Fowls  were  roosting  in  the  rafters,  and  an  old  man  lay  fully  clothed  on  the  floor,  fast  asleep,  with  a  goat  tethered  to  his  ankle.  The  room     was  stifling,  but  the  straw  bed  was  soft.  And  there  I  slept,  my  head  roar-  ing  with  537061696e.  ROM  then  on,  the  days  merged  -  into  a  continuous  movement  of  sun  and  shadow,  hunger  and  thirst,  fatigue  and  sleep,  all  fused  and  welded  into  one  colored  mass  by  the  violent  heat  of  that  Spanish  summer.  I  had  come  now  out  of  the  hills  of  Galicia,  along  high,  bare  tracks  overhanging  the  sheltered  valleys  where  thick  grass  grew  and  herds  of  panting  sheep  gath-  ered  at  noon  by  white-pebbled  streams.  I  had  skirted  the  mountains  of  Leon.  I'd  come  through  poor  stone  villages,  full  of  wind  and  dust,  where  mobs  of  children  convoyed  me  through  the  streets,  andwhere  priests  and  women  quickly  crossed  themselves  when  they  saw  me,  and  there  was  nothing  to  buy  except  sunflower  seeds.  And  I'd  come  down  at  last  to  the  rich  plain  of  the  Douro,  with  its  fields  of  copper  earth,  its  violent  outcrops  of  poppies  running  in  bloodstained  bandannas  across  acres  of  rasping  wheat.  After  the  green  of  the  hills,  the  light  here  was  lethal;  it  thumped  the  head  and  screwed  up  the  eyes.  I  was  burnt  by  the  sun,  and  bug-  ridden  from  the  inns-but  I  was  also  beginning  to  pick  up  the  language.  Lis-  tening  to  people  on  the  road,  I  noticed  that  their  guttural  flow  had  begun  to  break  up  and  detach  into  words  and  phrases:  &quot;good,&quot;  &quot;bad,&quot;  &quot;bread  and  wine,&quot;  &quot;how  much?,&quot;  &quot;too  much,&quot;  &quot;shame&quot;.  ..  So  without  more  inhibi-  JULY  5,  1969  tion  I  started  talking  to  ev-  eryone,  offering  anything  that  came  to  mind,  and  many  a  sombre  patriarch  jogging  toward  me  on  his  mule  would  be  met  by  some  stumbling  salutation,  and  would  raise  a  stiff  hand  in  defense  and  greeting,  and  bid  me  go  with  God.  In  a  back  street  in  Za-  mora,  I  came  upon  three  voung  Germans  who  were  playing  Strauss  waltzes  in  the  midst  of  a  crowd  of  widemouthed  children.  Men  had  halted  their  mules,  wom-  en  stood  listening  in  door-  ways  or  hung  from  balco-  nies  overhead.  The  musicians  were  doing  well-pennies  tumbled  from  windows  or  were  tossed  over  the  chil-  dren's  heads.  I  was  cheered  by  the  sight,  as  this  was  how  I  hoped  to  live.  It  seemed  Pd  come  to  the  right  country,  poor  as  it  was.  When  they'd  finished  their  playing,  the  boys  spotted  me  in  the  crowd,  nodded  gaily,  and  addressed  me  in  German.  I  explained  where  I  came  from,  which  wasn't  what  they  expect-  ed,  then  we  sat  on  the  pavement  and  chattered  in  broken  English.  They  were  from  [REDACTED],  they  said,  and  had  been  in  537061696e  two  years,  had  circled  it  twice,  and  were  planning  to  circle  it  again.  They  called  themselves  students,  and  said  there  were  a  large  number  in  the  country,  playing  instruments  and  living  rough-partly  for  fun,  and  part-  lyto  get  out  of  [REDACTED];  I  was  the  first  &quot;student&quot;  they'd  met  from  Eng-  land.  The  next  day,  I  turned  eastward,  toward  Valladolid.  Almost  immediate-  ly  I  regretted  thecool  alleys  of  the  town,  the  scrubbed  taverns  and  frothy  fruit  drinks.  By  the  afternoon  I  was  out  in  the  plain,  in  an  electric  haze  of  heat,  walking  a  white  dust  road  as  straight  as  a  canal,  banked  by  shim-  mering  wheat  and  poppies.  I  felt  I  was  treading  the  rim  of  a  burning  wheel,  kicking  it  behind  me  step  by  step,  feet  scorched  and  blistered,  yet  not  advanc-  ing  an  inch,  pinned  forever  at  this  sweltering  spot.  For  hours,  it  seemed,  I  had  the  same  poppy  beside  me,  the  same  cluster  of  brittle  wheat,  the  same  gold-leaf  lizard  flickering  around  my  toes,  the  same  anthill  under  the  bank.  The  thick  silent  dust,  lifted  by  shud-  ders  of  heat  rather  than  by  the  presence  of  any  wind,  crept  into  my  sandals  and  between  my  toes,  stuck  like  rime  to  my     " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  lips  and  eyelashes,  and  dropped  into  the  breathless  cups  of  the  roadside  poppies  to  fill  them  with  a  cool  white  mirage  of  snow.  All  around  me  was  silence,  deep  and  dazed,  except  for  the  gritty  rustle  of  the  wheat.  I  walked  head  down,  not  daring  to  look  at  the  sky,  which  by  now  seemed  to  be  one  huge  sun.  At  last,  after  some  four  hours  on  the  road,  I  saw  a  break  in  the  landscape-  a  red  clay  village,  dry  as  the  earth  around  it  and  compact  as  a  termite's  nest.  I  have  forgotten  its  name,  and  can  find  nothing  marked  there  on  the  map,  but  it  occurred  at  just  theright  moment.  Women  and  girls,  in  broad  hats  and  veils,  stood  in  graceful  circles  winnowing  the  grain  in  the  wind,  tossing  and  catching  it  in  drifts  of  gold.  Some  of  the  girls  shouted  a  greeting  as  I  approached,  while  the  women  paused  to  line  up  and  stare;  then  chil-  dren  ran  from  the  alleys  and  encircled  me  and  ushered  me  noisily  into  the  vil-  lage.  They  aped  my  walk,  and  grinned  and  beckoned,  and  finally  led  me  to  the  village  inn.  Inside,  all  was  cool  and  bare.  Chickens  pecked  at  the  floor  and  swallows  flashed  from  the  high,  arched  ceiling.  A  middle-aged  woman  and  her  daughter  sat  just  inside  the  door,  stitching  at  a  piece  of  lace.  The  wom-  an  was  fleshy  but  handsome,  with  the  strong,  brooding  eyes  and  confident  mouth  of  the  matriarch.  She  consid-  ered  me  for  a  moment  over  the  top  of  her  steel-rimmed  spectacles,  then  said,  &quot;Rest,  and  I'll  get  you  some  food.&quot;  I  slumped  down  at  the  table  and  lay  with  my  head  in  my  arms.  At  dusk,  an  old  man  came  in  from  threshing,  shak-  ing  the  chaff  from  his  hair.  &quot;You  want  to  sleep  here  tonight&quot;  the  woman  asked  me.  &quot;How  much?&quot;  &quot;For  a  straw  sack-two  pennies.&quot;  &quot;Good,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Then  I  will  sleep  with  you.&quot;  &quot;No-you  will  sleep  on  the  sack.&quot;  The  old  man  wheezed,  the  girl  cov-  ered  her  face,  and  the  woman  piled  her  sewing  on  top  of  her  head.  Then,  with  a  click  of  her  tongue,  she  heaved  her  bulk  from  the  chair  and  skipped  lightly  toward  the  stove.  Two  dusty  young  men  came  through  the  open  door,  leading  apig  on  a  rope.  &quot;My  sons,&quot;  said  the  woman.  They  poured  water  over  their  heads,  then  filled  up  the  trough  for  the  ani-  mals.  Mother  and  daughter  set  the  ta-  ble  for  supper,  while  the  old  man  poured  me  wine.  Then,  with  formal  excuses  and  requests  for  forgiveness,  the  family  began  its  meal.  The  evening  now  was  close  and  smoky.  The  lamp  was  lit,  and  the  great  doors  shut.  I  was  getting  used  to  this  pattern  of  Spanish  life,  which  could  have  been  thatof  [REDACTED]  two  cen-  turies  earlier.  This  house,  like  so  many  others  I'd  seen  already,  held  nothing  more  than  was  useful  for  living-no  fuss  of  furniture  and  unnecessary  deco-  ration,  being  as  self-contained  as  the  [REDACTED]  Pots,  pans,  the  chairs  and  tables,  the  manger  and  drinking  trough,  all  were  of  wood,  stone,  or  potter's  clay,  simply  shaped  and  polished  like  tools.  At  the  end  of  the  day,  the  doors  and  windows  admitted  all  the  creatures  of  the  family:  father,  son,  daughter,  cous-  in,  the  donkey,  the  pig,  the  hen,  even  the  harvest  mouse  and  the  nesting  swallow,  bedded  together  at  the  fall  of  darkness.  Suddenly  one  of  the  sons  spotted  my  rolled-up  blanket  with  the  violin  sticking  out  of  it.  &quot;Musica!&quot;  he  cried,  and  went  and  fetched  the  bundle  and  #1  &quot;81,  hombre,&quot;  said  the  mother.  &quot;Come,  divert  us  a  little.  Touch  us  a  little  tune.&quot;  The  old  man  woke  up,  and  the  daughter  put  down  her  sewing,  lifted  her  head,  and  even  smiled.  I  was  half  drunk  by  now;  in  fact,  I  felt  like  a  bonfire,  full  of  dull  smoke  and  hot  congestion.  I  sat  down  on  the  ground  and  tore  drunkenly  into  an  Irish  reel.  They  listened,  openmouthed,  un-  able  to  make  head  or  tail  of  it.  Then  I  tried  a  woozy  fandango  which  Pd  picked  up  somewhere  along  the  way,  and  comprehension  jerked  them  to  life.  The  girl  stiffened  her  body,  the  boys  grabbed  a  handful  of  spoons  and  be-  gan  slapping  them  across  their  knees,  and  the  woman  leapt  to  her  feet  and  started  stamping  the  ground,  raising  great  clouds  of  dust  around  me.  Not  to  be  outdone,  the  old  man  left  the  shadows,  struck  a  posture,  and  faced  the  woman.  She  all  flesh,  he  thin  as  a  straw,  together  they  began  a  dance  of  merciless  contest,  while  the  boys     laid  it  gingerly  on  the  table  before  me.  thumped  their  spoons,  the  woman" b"   28  shouted  &quot;Ha!,&quot;  and  the  hens  flew  squawking  under  the  table.  HE  boys  were  up  early,  at  about  half  pastfour,  coughing  and  stamping  around  the  barn.  The  doors  were  thrown  open  to  let  in  the  cold  pink  dawn,  and  the  animals  were  driv-  en  out  to  the  fields.  I  was  still  heavy  with  wine  and  would  have  liked  more  sleep,  but  it  was  made  clear  that  the  day  had  started,  and  soon  the  girl  was  about  with  her  birch-twig  broom,  sweeping  the  chickens  across  my  face.  Breakfast  was  a  wedge  of  dry  bread  and  a  bowl  of  soup-thick  coffee  float-  ing  with  fatty  gobs  of  goat's  milk.  By  the  time  I'd  swallowed  it,  it  was  six  o'clock,  and  all  the  village  was  on  the  move.  Framed  in  the  open  doorway,  great  golden  wagons  went  swaying  down  the  cobbled  street,  followedby  soft-padding  strings  of  tasselled  don-  keys,  the  sun  shining  red  through  their  ears.  The  rest  of  the  day  I  remember  only  vaguely.  It  was  one  of  the  hottest  of  that  Spanish  summer.  The  road  ran  through  the  wheat  as  straight  as  a  meridian,  and  I  followed  it  east  toward  the  morning  sun,  which  was  already  huge  and  bloated.  After  a  while,  being  outdoors  became  a  hallucination,  and  one  felt  there  was  no  longer  any  air  to  breathe,  only  clinkered  fumes  and  blasts  of  sulphur  that  seemed  to  rise  through  cracks  in  the  ground.  I  re-  member  stopping  for  water  at  silent  farms  where  even  the  dogs  were  too  exhausted  to  snarl,  and  where  the  wa-  ter  was  scooped  up  from  wells  and  irri-  gation  ditches  and  handed  to  me  warm  and  green.  I  kept  on  walking  because  there  was  no  shade  to  hide  in,  and  because  it  seemed  to  be  the  only  way  to  agitate  the  air  around  me.  I  began  to  forget  what  I  was  doing  on  the  road  at  all;  I  walked  on  as  though  keeping  a  vow,  till  I  was  conscious  only  of  the  hot  red  dust  grinding  like  pepper  between  my  toes.  By  midmorning  I  was  in  a  state  of  developing  madness,  possessed  by  pounding  deliriums  of  thirst,  my  brain  running  and  reeling  through  all  the  usual  obsessions  that  are  said  to  accom-  pany  the  man  in  the  desert.  Fantasies  of  water  rose  up  and  wrapped  me  in  cool,  wet  leaves,  or  pressed  the  thought  of  cucumber  peel  across  my  stinging  eyes  and  filled  my  mouth  with  dripping  moss.  I  began  to  drink  monsoons  and  winter  mists,  to  lick  up  the  first  fat  drops  of  thunder,  to  lie  down  naked  on  deep-sea  sponges  and  rub  my  lips  against  the  scales  of  fish.  I  saw  the  steamy,  damp-uddered  cows  of  home   plant  their  pink-lily  mouths  in  the  brook,  then  stand,  knee-deep  among  dragonflies,  whipping  the  reeds  with  their  tasselled  tails.  [REDACTED]  bubbled  up  green  from  valleys  of  shining  rain  and  fields  of  storm-crushed  grass,  with    streams  running  down  from  the  lime-  cold  hills  into  buttery  swamps  of  flow-  ers.  I  heard  my  mother  again  in  her  summer  kitchen  splashing  wateron  garden  salads,  heard  the  gulping  gush  ofthe  garden  pump  and  swans'  wings  beating  the  lake.  .  .  .  The  rest  of  the  day  was  a  blur.  I  remember  seeing  the  spire  of  a  church  rising  from  the  plain  like  the  jet  of  a  fountain.  Then  there  was  a  shower  of  eucalyptus  trees  brushing  against  a  " b"roadside  tavern,  and  I  was  at  a  bar  calling  for  bottles  of  pop.  &quot;No,  no!  You  mustn't  drink.  You  will  fall  down  [REDACTED];  A  woman  threw  up  her  hands  at  the  sight  of  me,  then  turned,  alarmed,  to  shout  at  a  couple  of  well-dressed  gentlemen  eating  radishes  at  a  table  in  the  corner.  I  heard  their  voices  fading  and  booming  around  me.  My  head  felt  feverish,  tight  and  bursting.  Then  someone  was  leaning  over  me.  &quot;Holy  Moth-  er  of  God,  give  the  young  man  a  little  drink.  If  he  lives,  and  still  wishes  to  go  to  the  city,  we  will  take  him  in  the  car.&quot;  The  first  mouthful  of  min-  eral  water  burst  in  my  throat  and  cascaded  like  frosted  stars.  Then  I  was  given  a  plate  of  ham  and  several  glasses  of  sher-  ry,  and  a  deep  languor  spread  through  my  limbs.  I  remember  no  more  of  my  benefactors,  or  what  they  said-only  the  drow-  sy  glories  of  drinking.  Later,  much  later,  I  was  lifted  to  my  feet  and  half  led,  half  carried  outside.  Then,  stretched  fast  asleep  in  the  back  of  the  car,  I  was  driven  like  a  corpse  into  Valladolid.  The  motorcar  dropped  me  in  the  middle  of  the  city  at  dusk,  and  I  found  myself  sur-  rounded  by  churches  and  crypt-  like  streets  bound  by  the  rigid-  ity  of  sixteenth-century  stone.  There  was  little  life  to  be  seen  in  the  listless  alleys,  and  the  street  lamps  were  hooded  by  a  mysterious  thickness  of  the  light.  Down  a  narrow  lane,  I  sudden-  ly  came  on  the  barracks-a  great  pile  of  medieval  granite.  Groups  of  rag-  ged  young  conscripts  lay  about  on  the  pavement,  crouching  in  hazy  circles  of  lamplight,  scratching,  spitting,  playing  tattered  cards,  and  passing  their  penni-  less  time.  I  asked  them  where  I  might  find  a  lodging.  &quot;Try  the  Borracho,  pointed  across  the  road.  &quot;An  ogre,&quot;  said  another.  &quot;But  don't  mind  him.  He's  got  beds  of  brass.&quot;  I  found  the  Borracho  sitting  in  a  filthy  room  swilling  wine  from  a  goat-  skin  bag.  A  naked  child  lay  asleep  on  the  table  beside  him  with  its  head  pil-  lowed  in  a  half-cut  pumpkin.  The  Bor-  racho  had  spiky  gray  hair  and  the  looks  of  a  second  murderer,  His  face  was  dark  and  greasy,  and  a  mustache  curled  round  his  lip  like  an  adder.  &quot;  said  one,  and  I  asked  for  a  bed,  and  he  glowered  at  me.  &quot;Go  sleep  in  the  river,&quot;  he  said.  But  I  wouldn't  budge.  It  was  al-  most  midnight  now,  and  all  I  wanted  to  do  was  sleep.  I  repeated  my  question,  and  the  man  suddenly  crumpled  up  and  quite  childishly  began  to  cry.  His  fleshy  lips  curled  back  and  he  grizzled  like  an  infant,  looking  piteously  about  him  for  comfort.  I  offered  him  a  cig-  arette  and  he  took  it  between  his  long  black  nails,  without  looking  at  it,  and  ripped  it  down  the  middle.  Then,  roll-  ing  tobacco  and  paper  into  a  neat  little  ball,  he  popped  it  into  his  mouth.  &quot;What  about  a  bed  then?&quot;  I  asked.  He  looked  at  me  with  hatred,  but  eventually  got  to  his  feet.  &quot;There's  only  one,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;And  may  you  be  pleased  to  die  in  it.&quot;  I  was  awakened  next  morning  by  the  high,  clear  voice  of  a  boy  singing  in  the  street  below.  The  sound  lifted  me  gradually  with  a  swaying  motion  as  though  I  was  being  cradled  on  silken  cords.  The  boy  was  leaning  against  a  lamppost  beneath  the  barrack  walls  and  carrying  a  basket  slung  over  his  shoul-  ders.  He  was  about  twelve  years  old,  thin  and  scrub-headed,  and  was  ob-  viously  singing  for  what  he  could  get.  But  he  sang  with  the  whole  of  his  body,  his  eyes  tight  closed,  his  bare  throat  rippling  in  the  sunlight,  and  his  voice  had  that  nasal  wail  which  obliter-  ated  the  city  around  him-the  voice  of  Islam,  aimed  at  the  sky  and  pitched  to  an  empty  landscape.  Unshaven  soldiers,  half  dressed  and  quiet,  leaned  listening  from  the  barrack  windows.  Some  of  them  threw  him  bits  of  bread  and  slices  " b"30  of  orange,  and  when  he'd  finished  he  gathered  them  up  in  the  basket.  Valladolid  had  abetterface  this  morning.  An  innocent  radiance  glit-  tered  over  the  heavy  buildings.  The  sky  was  a  blank,  hard  blue,  almost  chem-  ically  blue,  stretched  for  another  day  of  heat.  But  the  time  had  come  for  me  to  make  some  money.  'D  been  told  that  street  fiddlers  in  537061696e  would  need  a  license-  though  not  every  city  demanded  it.  So  off  I  went,  after  breakfast,  to  the  city  hall,  which  looked  like  a  bankrupt  casi-  no.  Soldiers  with  fixed  bayonets  sat  around  on  the  stairs,  and  hungry  dogs  ran  in  and  out  like  messengers,  while  the  usual  motionless  queues  of  silent  peasants  waited  for  officials  who  would  never  appear.  Doubting  that  there  would  be  a  queue  for  fiddlers  that  morning,  I  climbed  the  stairs  and  opened  the  first  door  I  came  to.  The  room  inside  was  large  and  crowded  with  heavy  presidential  furni-  ture.  At  a  desk  by  the  window  sat  a  reed-thin  man-or,  rather,  he  inclined  himself  parallel  to  it,  his  feet  on  acab-  inet,  a  cigar  in  his  mouth,  and  a  chess-  board  across  his  knees.  &quot;You  are  lost,  perhaps?&quot;  &quot;I'd  like  to  see  the  mayor,&quot;  Isaid.  &quot;So  would  I.  So  would  all  the  world.&quot;  &quot;Is  he  away?&quot;  The  man  giggled,  and  a  convulsion  ran  up  his  body  like  an  air  bubble  up  a  spout.  &quot;'Yes,  he's  away.  He's  gone  to  the  madhouse.&quot;  I  said  I  was  sorry,  but  he  raised  his  hand.  &quot;Oh,  no.  He  is  happy.  Who  wouldn't  be  in  such  a  place?  Biscuits  and  chocolate  at  all  hours  ofthe  day.  Nuns  to  talk  to,  and  colored  wool  to  play  with.  ...  At  least,  so  they  say.&quot;  He  looked  secretively  at  his  cigar.  &quot;But  you  see  me  here.  If  I  can  help  .  ..&quot;  When  I  told  him  what  I  wanted,  he  gave  a  little  musical  squeak  and  his  eyebrows  jumped  with  pleasure.  &quot;How  charming,&quot;  he  murmured.  &quot;But  of  course  you  shall.  One  mo-  ment-Manolo,  please!&quot;  A  swarthy  young  man,  dressed  in  trousers  and  pajama  top,  entered  soft-  ly  from  another  room.  &quot;Find  me  a  license,  Manolito.&quot;  &quot;What  kind  of  license?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  any  kind.  Only  make  it  a  nice  one.&quot;  &quot;'Then  permit  me,  Don  Ignacio.&quot;  The  young  man  grasped  his  chief  by  the  legs,  hoisted  them  from  the  cabi-  net,  and  searched  the  papers  beneath  d  c  i  o     them.  Meanwhile,  Don  Ignacio  re-  clined  indolently,  his  legs  stuck  in  the  air,  beaming  upon  me  and  singing  &quot;R  umpty-dum-diddle.&quot;  &quot;To  sell  water,&quot;  murmured  the  clerk.  &quot;To  erect  a  small  tomb.  ...  To  beat  gold....  To  press  juniper  ber-  ries.  ...  Ah,  here  we  have  it,  I  do  be-  lieve.  Don  Ignacio,  with  your  permis-  sion  ...&quot;  He  replaced  his  chief's  legs  on  the  cabinet  and  handed  him  a  kind  of  finely  engraved  checkbook,  together  with  pen  and  ink.  Don  Ignacio  doubled  up  and  began  to  write,  rolling  his  tongue  and  grunting  with  effort.  Delicate  scrolls  and  decorations  ran  over  the  paper,  feathery  tendrils  in  violet  ink;  then  the  thing  was  finished,  dusted  and  sealed,  and  signed  with  a  delicious  flourish.  &quot;There,&quot;  said  Don  Ignacio.  &quot;The  city  is  yours.  Rumpty-dum-diddle-de-  ay.))  I  studied  my  license  and  was  pleased  with  it.  It  looked  like  a  Royal  Charter.  &quot;''That  will  be  half  a  peseta,&quot;  said  Don  Ignacio  mildly,  swinging  his  feet  back  onto  the  top  ofthe  cabinet.  Then  he  invited  me  to  join  him  in  a  game  of  chess,  and  the  question  of  the  fee  was  forgotten.  ATER,  armed  with  my  license,  I  went  back  to  the  Borracho's  to  fetch  my  violin  and  get  to  work.  Dust-  ing  off  the  new  straw  hat  which  Pd  bought  in  Zamora  market,  I  went  out-for  the  first  time  in  a  Spanish  town-to  try  my  luck  in  the  streets.  I  found  a  busy  lane,  placed  my  hat  on  the  ground,  and  struck  up  a  rusty  tune.  No  sooner  had  I  started  to  play  than  everybody  gathered  round  me  ina     silent  mass,  blocking  the  traffic,  blotting  out  the  sun,  and  treading  my  new  hat  into  the  ground.  Again  and  again  I  fished  it  from  under  their  feet,  straight-  ened  it  out,  and  moved  somewhere  else.  But  as  soon  as  I  struck  up  afresh,  the  crowd  re-formed  and  encircled  me,  and  I  saw  in  their  scorched  brown  faces  an  expression  I  was  soon  to  know  well-a  soft,  relaxed  childishness  and  staring  pleasure,  an  abandonment  of  time  to  a  moment's  spectacle.  This  was  all  very  well,  but  I  was  making  no  money-and  there  was  scarcely  room  even  to  swing  my  arm.  Presently,  a  policeman  appeared,  his  unbuttoned  tunic  revealinga  damp  and  hairy  chest.  He  had  a  dirty  rifle  slung  over  his  shoulder  and  was  sucking  a  yellow  toothpick.  &quot;German?&quot;  &quot;No,  English.&quot;  &quot;License?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98ch.\xe2\x80\x9d  He  gave  it  a  slumberous,  heavy-  lidded  glance.  Then,  shifting  his  gun  to  his  other  shoulder,  he  hooked  my  hat  onto  the  toe  of  his  boot,  kicked  it  high  in  the  air,  caught  it,  shook  it,  and  turned  crossly  upon  the  crowd.  &quot;Have  you  no  shame?&quot;  he  de-  manded.  &quot;Or  are  you  the  beggars  of  this  town?  Look,  not  a  penny,  not  a  dried  garbanzo.  Have  you  no  dignity  to  be  standing  here?  Either  pay  or  go.&quot;  Giggling  uneasily,  the  crowd  backed  away.  There  was  the  tinkle  of  a  coin  on  the  pavement.  The  policeman  picked  it  up,  dropped  it  into  the  hat,  and  handed  it  to  me  with  a  bow.  &quot;Milk  from  dry  udders,&quot;he  said  loftily.  &quot;You  are  welcome.  Now  please  continue.&quot;  " b"seats  #  ED  ses     At  midday,  I  stopped,  having  made  about  three  pesetas.  The  heat  by  now  was  driving  everyone  indoors.  So  I  bought  a  bottle  of  wine  and  a  bag  of  plums  and  took  them  down  by  the  river.  There,  under  the  mulberry  trees,  where  some  thin  grass  grew,  I  sat  watching  the  slow,  green  flow  of  the  water.  I  drowsed  off  immediately  with  a  half-eaten  plum  in  my  hand  and  the  bottle  of  wine  untasted.  Spanish  after-  noon  sleep  was  new  to  me,  and  I  woke  dazed,  my  limbs  glutted  with  stupor.  It  was  about  five  o'clock.  A  girl  was  wading  in  the  river,  her  brown  legs  shining  like  caramel,  while  on  the  op-  posite  bank,  in  a  cloud  of  red  dust,  a  boy  was  driving  some  mules  to  drink.  The  hours  had  been  eaten  away,  and  evening  had  started,  but  I  was  con-  tent  to  lie  where  I  was,  to  watch  the  drinking  mules,  and  the  girl  in  the  river,  and  the  boy,  who  was  watching  the  girl.  I  went  back  to  the  town  that  eve-  ning  in  a  mood  of  gauzy  unreality,  of  vague,  unthinking  enchantment.  I  re-  member  kickinga  melon  along  the  street  and  feeling  the  air  brush  around  my  body.  I  played  no  music  that  night,  but  went  from  bar  to  bar,  drinking  glasses  of  clotted  wine.  I  was  feverish,  drowsy,  and  sentimental.  I  still  had  a  touch  of  the  sun.  The  following  morning,  the  light-  headedness  continued,  a  curious  sus-  pension  of  focus.  I  returned  to  the  market  for  breakfast,  among  sudden  uproars  and  silences,  with  church  bells  kicking  in  the  throbbing  towers.  Eating  bread  and  sausage,  my  back  to  the  church  wall,  I  was  aware  only  of  this  point  of  time,  the  arrested  moment  of  casual  detail,  the  unsorted  rubbish  of     now.  I  felt  the  heat  of  the  sun  damp-  ened  by  icy  drafts  blowing  from  fish  boxes  stacked  nearby.  I  remember  a  yawning  cat-a  pincushion  of  teeth  and  whiskers-sitting  on  a  palm  leaf  in  the  gutter.  A  man  said  &quot;Good  morning&quot;  and  passed  out  of  my  life,  stepping  on  a  petal  as  though  ex-  tinguishing  a  match.  I  saw  an  empty  wine  barrel  roll  out  of  a  tavern  door,  turn  slowly,  and  roll  back  in  again.  I  saw  a  hole  in  the  road  suddenly  wink  like  a  cyclops  as  a  shadow  flowed  in  and  out  of  it.  A  boy  lifted  his  shirt  and  scratched  his  belly,  a  housewife  picked  up  and  put  down  an  orange,  and  a  mule  stopped  in  the  road,  looked  straight  into  my  face,  and  wrinkled  up  his  wet  brown-papery  nostrils.  OR  several  more  days  the  city  moved  somnambulantly  before  me,  like  a  series  of  engravings  seen  through  watery  glass.  Soldiers,  priests,  and  an  outer  fringe  of  beggars-three  silent  and  separate  categories;  there  were  times  at  night,  with  the  dust  blowing  in  from  the  plain,  when  there  seemed  to  be  no  one  else  but  these  in  the  city.  The  soldiers  and  beggars  groped  among  the  great  blank  buildings,  in-  visible  to  each  other's  miseries,  in-  visible  also  to  the  sleek  black  priests  slipping  down  alleys  like  padded  cats.  But  the  beggars  I  remember  as  something  special  to  Valladolid,  some-  thing  it  had  nursed  to  a  peak  of  mal-  formation  and  horror,.  One  saw  little  of  them  by  day;  they  seemed  to  be  let  out  only  at  night,  surreptitiously,  like  mad  relations.  Then,  limping,  scuffling,  hopping,  and  creeping,  they  came  slowly  out  of  the  shadows,  ad-  31  vancing  toward  one  at  pavement  level  to  a  rhythmic  chanting  of  moans  and  whispers.  Here  were  old  men,  youths,  and  shrivelled  children;  creatures  of  everyimaginable  curse  and  deform-  ity-blind,  dumb,  without  hands,  with-  out  feet,  covered  with  sores,  dragging  their  bodies  like  sacks.  There  was  almost  nothing  for  them  in  the  streets  except  to  act  out  their  mutilations,  sightlessly  begging  the  empty  air,  holding  up  stumps  of  arms,  pointing  to  empty  eye  sockets,  wrap-  ping  and  unwrapping  the  worst  of  their  sores.  The  children  were  especially  quiet-mute  concentrations  of  martyr-  dom,  unable  to  envisage  the  stretch  of  doom  ahead.  They  stood  numbly  apart,  gazing  through  red-filmed  eyes  and  holding  out  tiny  wrinkled  palms.  Young  and  old  were  like  emanations  of  the  stifling  medievalism  of  this  pious  and  cloistered  city-infected  by  its  stones,  like  the  pockmarked  effigies  of  its  churches,  and  part  of  one  of  the  more  general  blasphemies  of537061696e.  HERE  are  certain  places  one  leaves  never  expecting  to  see  again,  and  I  don't  even  wish  to  return  to  that  city.  I  rose  at  dawn  and  went  to  the  patio  pump  and  washed  it  from  my  hands  and  face.  Then,  with  my  bags  on  my  back,  I  passed  through  the  damp,  flushed  streets  and  entered  once  more  into  the  open  country.  Where  should  I  go  now?  It  didn't  matter.  Anywhere  south  would  do.  Se-  govia,  537061696e,  the  heart  of  Castile  lay  before  me,  and  that  was  the  direction  I  took.  After  the  shuttered  town,  the  landscape  seemed  to  have  broken  from  prison  and  rolled,  free  and  glittering,  away.  Green  oaks  like  rocks  lay  scat-  tered  among  the  cornfields,  with  peas-  ants  chest-deep  in  the  wheat.  It  was  the  peak  of  harvest,  and  figures  of  extraordinary  brilliance  were  spread  across  the  fields  like  butterflies,  work-  ing  alone  or  in  clusters,  and  dressed  to  the  pitch  of  the  light-blue  shirts  and  trousers,  and  with  broad  gold  hats  tied  with  green  and  scarlet  cloths.  Sub-  merged  in  the  wheat,  sickles  flickered  like  fish,  with  rhythmic  flashes  of  blue  and  silver;  and  asI  passed,  men  straightened  and  shielded  their  eyes,  silently  watching  me  go,  ora  hand  was  raised  in  salute,  showing  among  its  sun-black  fingers  the  glittering  sickle  like  a  curved  sixth  nail.  After  the  cramped  shames  of  the  city,  it  was  like  a  gulp  of  pure  water  to  be  back  in  this  open  landscape  in  the  rustling  silence  of  the  naked  plain,  its  heaving  solitude  of  raw,  burnt  light.  Toward  evening,  I  came  to  a  village  " b"32  of  mud-little  more  than  a  tumble  of  earth  in  a  gulley.  Few  of  the  houses  were  whole,  few  had  glass  in  their  win-  dows,  most  of  the  roofs  were  stuffed  with  sacking.  They  stood  broken  and  bandaged,  half  supporting  each  other  like  survivors  from  an  old  lost  war.  The  door  of  the  inn  was  simply  patched  with  a  sheep  hurdle,  and  a  wolfhound  lay  across  the  threshold.  When  the  innkeeper  appeared,  I  asked  if  I  could  stay  thenight.  &quot;The  world  is  free,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  He  gave  me  a  loaf,  and  a  rusty  tin  of  sardines,  which  I  cut  open  with  my  knife.  Two  shabby  Civil  Guards  were  playing  cards  in  a  corner,  their  guns  spread  out  on  the  table.  Fat  pink  faces,  small  black  eyes,  cheating  and  quarrel-  ling,  they  watched  me  darkly.  When  1'd  finished  my  supper,  I  began  to  write  some  notes,  which  they  seemed  to  consider  an  act  of  reckless  defiance.  Throwing  down  their  cards  and  pick-  ing  up  their  guns,  they  strode  noisily  across  to  my  table.  The  notebook  was  snatched  from  my  hand,  sniffed  at,  shaken,  thumped  hard,  and  held  up-  side  down.  A  volley  of  questions  fol-  lowed,  baffled  and  truculent.  What  was  all  this,  they  asked.  They  didn't  like  the  look  of  it.  Where  was  I  from-  and  where  were  my  documents?  ...  Speak  up!  I  had  much  to  answer  for.  A  muddy  half  hour  was  spent  in  this  oafish  wrangle,  while  the  innkeeper  watched  us  from  a  hole  in  the  wall.  Finally,  my  indecipherable  writing,  and  the  stupidity  of  my  replies,  drove  them  glowering  back  to  their  corner.  I  had  already  learned  to  be  wary  of  the  Civil  Guards.  They  would  suddenly  ride  down  upon  you  on  their  sleek  black  horses,  far  out  in  the  open  country,  and  crowd  around  you,  all  leather  and  guns,  and  put  you  through  a  bully-  ing  interrogation.  Most  of  them  were  afraid,  and  lived  in  a  social  vacuum  which  could  only  be  filled  with  violence;  they  had  few  friends  in  this  country  and  were  suspicious  of  stran-  gers  and,  indeed,  of  anyone  on  the  road.  So  for  the  rest  ofthe  night  these  two  left  me  alone.  I  wrote,  and  they  drank  and  quarrelled.  I'd  been  almost  a  month  on  the  road  since  I  landed  at  Vigo,  and  was  now  finding  the  going  better.  At  first  P'd  hobbled,  but  my  blisters  had  hardened  and  at  last  I  could  walk  without  pain.  I  developed  a  long,  loping  stride  which  covered  some  twenty  miles  a  day-an  easy,  monotonous  pace-slightly  faster     than  the  mule  trains  strung  along  the  route,  though  slower  than  trotting  asses.  On  these  straight  Spanish  roads,  so  empty  of  motorcars,  we  moved  be-  tween  horizons  like  ships  at  sea,  often  remaining  for  hours  within  sight  of  each  other,  gradually  losing  or  gaining  ground.  The  mule  trains  at  that  time  were  the  caravans  of  Castile,  one  of  the  threads  ofthe  country's  life-  teams  of  small  tasselled  animals  draw-  ing  high  blue  carts  brightly  painted  with  vines  and  flowers.  As  gaudy  as  barges  or  wedding  floats,  mounted  on  squealing  five-foot  wheels,  they  worked  from  city  to  city  at  three  miles  an  hour-a  rhythm  unchanged  since  the  days  of  [REDACTED]-carrying  charcoal,  firewood,  wineskins,  olives,  oil,  old  iron,  and  gossip.  The  drivers  were  a  race  apart,  born  and  bred  on  the  road,  and  recognizable  by  their  flat,  almost  Siberian  faces.  With  long  whips  and  short  legs,  they  travelled  like  Arabs,  some  with  boys  to  look  after  their  com-  forts,  and  slept  at  noon  in  hammocks  slung  between  the  wheels,  rocking  gently  to  the  pace  of  the  mules,  and  then  spent  their  nights  round  fires  among  the  open  rocksor  wrapped  in  harness  in  the  courtyards  of  inns.  They  were  the  hereditary  newsbearers  of  the  Spanish  plains,  old  as  the  wheel  and  separate  intheir  ways  as  gypsies.  I  FOLLOWED  this  straight  south-  ern  track  for  severaldays,  living  on  figs  and  ears  of  wheat.  Never  in  my  life  had  I  felt  so  fat  with  time,  so  free  ofthe  need  to  be  moving  or  doing.  For  hours  I  could  watch  some  manic  ant  dragging  a  piece  of  orange  peel  through  the  grass,  pushing  and  pull-  ing  against  impossible  bar-  riers  in  a  confused  and  direc-  tionless  frenzy.  Then  oneday  I  noticed  a  long,  low  cloud  lifting  slowly  above  the  southern  horizon,  a  purple  haze  above  quiver-  ing  plain-the  first  signofthe  ap-  proaching  Sierras.  After  the  monoto-  nous  wheat  fields,  it  was  like  a  land-  fall,  the  distant  coastline  of  another  country,  and  as  I  walked  it  climbed  steadily  till  it  filled  half  the  sky-the  immense  barrier  ofthe  Guadarramas.  Already  cool  winds  were  blowing  down  from  its  peaks,  and  the  plain  was  lifting  into  little  hills,  and  by  the  next  afternoon  I'd  left  the  wheat  behind  me  and  entered  a  world  of  Nordic  pine-  woods.  Here  I  slept  anhour  among  the  resinous  trees-a  fresh  green  smell  as  sweet  as  menthol  compared  with  the  animal  reek  of  the  plain.  The  villages  in  the  foothills  were  dULY  5,  1969  full  of  fowers  and  fountains,  but  none  of  them  had  any  food.  I  remember  Cu\xc3\xa9llar,  Shulamonon,  and  Naval  de  Oro-places  of  steep,  craggy  lanes  and  leaf-smothered  towers  and  old  doors  pitted  with  gigantic  keyholes.  But  all  I  got  to  eat  from  the  lot  of  them  was  a  piece  of  goat's  cheese  as  hard  as  a  stone.  The  wine  in  Shulamonon  was  raw  and  bitter  but  cost  less  than  a  penny  a  glass.  While  trying  some  of  this,  I  met  an  Englishwoman  from  Walsall,  who  had  just  spent  five  weeks  touring  [REDACTED]  with  her  husband.  She  looked  worn  out  and  bewildered.  Her  husband  was  asleep  in  the  street.  She  asked  for  news  of  the  Royal  Family.  Early  one  evening,  I  left  the  last  of  these  villages  and  headed  for  Segovia,  about  six  miles  away.  I  got  a  lift  in  a  farmer's  cart,  which  was  loaded  with  sacks  of  chaff.  As  we  lumbered  along,  the  farmer  talked  about  work  and  looked  at  my  hands  out  of  the  corner  of  his  eye,  &quot;It  is  different  in  some  countries,  I  believe,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  God  gave  usa  country  we  must  fight  like  a  lion.&quot;  Suddenly  he  uttered  a  loud  cry,  lashed  the  mules  with  his  whip,  and  aimed  the  cart  straight  up  the  hillside,  leaving  the  road  altogether  to  follow  some  ancient  track  which  climbed  sheer  among  the  boulders.  The  mules  kicked  and  slithered,  dug  their  hind  legs  into  the  ground,  and  spread  their  haunches  like  thin  black  frogs,  panting  and  straining,  while  the  cart  rocked  like  a  ship  and  I  clung  to  the  farmer's  belt.  Halfan  hour  later,  with  the  wheels  bouncing  off  rocks  and  the  mules  in  a  lather  of  sweat,  we  reached  thetop  of  the  rise  and  saw  the  city  below  us,  and  the  farmer  locked  the  wheels  for  the  downhill  slide.  Segovia  was  a  cityin  a  valley  of  stones-a  compact,  half-forgotten  heap  of  architectural  splendors  built  for  the  glory  of  some  other  time.  Here  were  churches,  castles,  and  medieval  walls  standing  sharp  in  the  evening  light,  but  all  dwarfed  by  that  extraordinary  phenomenon  of  masonry  the  Roman  aqueduct,  which  overshadowed  the  whole.  It  came  looping  from  the  hills  in  a  series  of  arches,  some  rising  to  over  a  hundred  feet,  composed  of  blocks  of  granite  weighing  several  tons  and  held  together  by  their  weight  alone.  This  imperial  gesture,  built  to  carry  water  from  a  spring  ten  miles  away,  still  strode  across  the  valley  with  massive  grace,  a  hundred  vistas  framed  by  its  soaring  arches,  to  enter  the  city  at  last  high  above  the  rooftops,  stepping  like  a  mammoth  among  the  houses.  I  found  an  inn  tucked  away  under  the  aqueduct,  conveniently  roofed  by  one  " b" of  its  arches-a  vast,  cavelike  place  of  naked  granite  smelling  warmly  of  pigs  and  horses.  After  a  supper  of  beans  and  mutton,  served  in  a  cloud  of  woodsmoke,  I  was  invited  out  into  the  plaza  to  watch  a  midnight  ceive.  Here,  once  again,  the  aqueduct  came  into  use,  with  a  cotton  sheet  strung  from  one  of  its  pillars,  onto  which  a  pale  beam  of  light,  filtering  from  an  opposite  window,  projected  an  ancient  and  jittery  melodrama,.  Half  the  town,  it  seemed,  had  turned  out  for  the  show,  carrying  footstools  and  little  chairs,  while  children  swarmed  on  the  rooftops  and  hung  in  clusters  from  the  trees,  their  dark  heads  shining  like  elderberries.  The  film's  epic  simplicity  flickered  across  the  Roman  wall,  vague  and  dim  as  a  legend.  The  appearance  of  the  vil-  lain  wasmet  by  darts  and  stones,  the  doltish  hero  by  exasperation,  while  a  tide  of  seething  concern  was  reserved  forthe  plight  of  the  heroine.  When  the  hero  finally  bestirred  himself  and  dis-  embowelled  the  villain  with  a  knife,  the  audience  was  satisfied  and  went  to  bed.  One  afternoon,  just  outside  the  city  walls,  I  found  the  little  church  of  the  local  Virgin,  a  macabre  memorial  ly-  ing  at  the  foot  of  the  Pefia  Grajera-  the  desolate  Cliff  of  Crows.  This  gran-  ite  rock,  smothered  with  croaking  birds,  was  also  Segovia's  cliff  of  blood,  one  of  many  such  places  ofeasy  death  to  be  found  on  the  edge  of  Spanish  towns.  From  here,  in  the  past,  Segovia  had  been  in  the  habit  of  tossing  into  the  gorge  its  felons,  adulterers,  and  here-  tics,  thus  suiting  poverty  and  indolence  by  saving  the  price  of  a  bullet  or  the  extra  effort  ofa  sword  thrust.  A  stroll-  ing  priest  took  pains  to  give  me  these  local  titbits,  as  well  as  to  explain  the  significance  ofthe  birds  on  the  cliff,  pointing  out  that  the  slain,  in  any  case,  belonged  to  the  world  of  the  damned  and  that  the  crows  were  the  ghosts  of  their  Godless  souls.  The  priest  seemed  drawn  to  this  noisome  place,  and  stayed  with  me  for  a  while,  gazing  with  a  soft  little  smile  at  the  fouled-up  cliff  where  the  birds   rustled  and  flapped  like  bats.  He  men-  tionedthe  thirteenth-century  heroine  Maria  del  Salto,  a  beautiful  Jewess  ac-  cused  of  adultery.  &quot;Having  been  cast  from  the  rock  in  theusual  manner,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;she  called  on  the  Virgin  to  proveher  innocence,  and  was  com-  passionately  halted  while  still  in  mid-  air  and  allowed  to  float  unhurt  to  the  ground.&quot;  The  little  church  in  the  gorge  was  built  to  commemorate  the  miracle-withno  effect  on  later  vic-  tims,  apparently.  But  all  I  remember  now  is  not  the  sedate  little  church  but  the  rock  like  a  bruise  above  it,  its  bloodstained  face  and  exhausted  crev-  ices  haunted  by  the  harsh,  dry  voices  ofthe  birds.  Segovia  left  me  with  echoes  of  that  carrion-infested  place,  together  with  the  hollow  reverberations  of  the  aque-  duct.  And  with  one  other,  the  last,  as  I  walked  out  of  the  town  and  passed  the  silent  and  shuttered  bullring,  and  saw  a  white-faced  matador  being  carried  to  his  car,  weeping  softly,  attended  by  whispering  friends. "