 OPEN  AND  SHUT  (CONFUSED  MEMORIES  OF  A  DUSTY  BROWSE  THROUGH  THE  \xc2\xabyour  CHOICE-25\xc2\xa2&quot;  SHELF  IN  A  SECONDHAND-BOOK  STORE  )  a  l  NHE  lentil  said,  &quot;I  also  have  so  far  escaped  being  put  in  the  pot.  Shall  I  tell  you  my  secret?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes!&quot;  cried  all  the  young  beans,  &quot;Very  good,&quot;  said  the  wise  lentil.  &quot;When  the  old  woman  gets  back-&quot;  ERE,  scarce  halfway  up  old  Monadnock's  hump  but  still  in  sight  of  our  drowsy  fellow-picnickers,  let  us  pause  for  a  moment  to  catch  our  breath  and  admire  the  scented  clusters  of  vetch-violet,  the  nodding  racemes  of  the  humble  peanut  wort,  the  shy  spleenax.  And  the  common  wayside  weeds-cow's-breath  and  parsimony!  And  the  wild  grasses  all  nodding  to-  gether!  But  today  let  us  leave  them  unplucked,  for  there  by  that  dancing  brook  just  ahead  I  see  our  prize  at  last,  the  shy  fingerlets  of  Crown-of-August  flowers,  whose-  bd  ONLY  my  younger  readers,  per-  haps,  will  be  unable  to  remember  the  &quot;glory  days&quot;  of  theold  Keith  Wheel  and  such  early  greats  of  the  two-a-day  as  McIntyre  &amp;  Mayer,  The  Merry  Hibernians,  Reintz  the  Human  Pretzel,  Cudjo  &amp;  &quot;Colonel&quot;  Culpep-  per,  The  Five  Platters,  Rosetta  &amp;  Dooley,  &quot;Bessie  Long  Legs&quot;  Hart,  McCallum's  Pigs  in  &quot;School  Daze,&quot;  The  T  wo  Pucks--  HE  old  Earl  stared  all  unseeing  at  the  dying  embers,  knitting  his  shaggy  eyebrows.  Mrs.  Darling  had  drawn  his  gout  stool  closer  to  the  fire  and  now  awaited  his  settling  his  foot  upon  it.  Should  she  tell  him  the  truth  about  young  Bevis,  who  had  been  ushered  quietly  in  and  who  now  stood  timorously  behind  the  door,  his  tattered  cap  in  hand?  Scarce  two  hours  had  passed  since  Nanny  Dawes  had  taken  her  aside  in  the  pantry  to  whisper  her  well-kept  secret,  yet  it  seemed-  ...as  the  village  worshippers,  emerging  from  chapel  and  blinking  the  bright  noonday  sunlight  of  St.  Philip's  Day,  remarked  upon  the  striking  pair,  the  fierce,  silver-haired  old  man  and,  beside  him,  the  upright,  merry  lad.       &quot;Mark  ye  the  nose  and  that  bold  chin?&quot;  whispered  old  Hodge.  &quot;Aye,  'tis  Ormand's  son  right  enough-&quot;  .  .  .  Amid  shoutings  and  joyful  clam-  or  the  young  couple  rose  shyly  to  their  feet.  &quot;A  toast!&quot;  cried  out  the  old  nobleman.  &quot;A  toast  to  the  young  heir  of  Blerrycourt  and  Lady  Lorena  Hogg!&quot;  Fast,  right  fast  de  night's  a-fallin'  An'  I  heah  de  croakers  callin'  'Mongst  de  katydids.  Deely,  gal,  go  stir  dat  stew,  Full  ob  Mistah  Possum  brew,  Wif  dat  'simmon  flaboh  steepin'  As  de  shades  ob  dahk  come  creepin'.  Oh,  [REDACTED]'s  de  lan'  fo'  me,  Hi-trollollie  lollie-lee!  \xe2\x80\x9cMY  mind  is  not  quiet,&quot;  said  Pui-  ko.  Ki-tung  remained  silent  until  seven  more  lotus  petals  had  fallen  into  the  pool.  Then  he  cut  off  his  own  forefin-  ger  and  handed  it  to  his  disciple.  Pui-ko  laid  it  on  his  fan.  Ki-tung  laughed.  &quot;Now  you  have  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;When  the  Snow  Carp  slumbers  and  the  Kingfisher  falls  from  his  stump,  then  you  will  know  that-&quot;  OLDING  trunk  of  the  Mario-  nette  Cat  firmly  in  left  hand,  run  thread  C  through  hip  joints  and  then  through  aperture  E  at  shoulders.  Tie  on  threads  G,  B,  and  F  before  fastening  K  to  forepaws.  Attach  slip-  knot  (see  page  37)  above  ears  and  nail  head  assembly  to  34&quot;  dowel  rod  at  O,  and  you  are  ready  for  the  somewhat  more  difficult  final  tieups  of  the  coun-  terweighted  tongue  and  tail.  As  for  the  Merry  Pedlar,  first  take  a  medium-  sized  potato  or  an  old  croquet  ball  and-  REVIEW  anp  Quiz,  CHarrEr  II  1.  What  is  a  geyser?  What  is  a  Ju-  rassic  malm?  A  galvanotherm?  2.  Name  the  Icelandic  fault  that  led  to  Jensen's  Error.  Explain.  3.  What  was  the  fate  of  the  lost  Jen-  sen  Expedition?  4.  Name  the  correct  Epoch,  Period,  and  Era  of  Professor  Schumpeter's  pa-  perweight.  5.  Describe  a  typical  crust-buckle.  Be  precise.  6.  Try  to  guess  why  President  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Hoover  once  described  the  [REDACTED]  shelf  as  &quot;a  gneiss  place  to  live.&quot;  LJ  NOW,  as  the  long  July  twilight  fell  over  the  orchards  and  ripening  cornfields  of  the  Shenandoah,  the  fate-  ful  order  of  the  next  day's  engagement  could  be  perceived,  From  Peckett's  Rill,  to  the  southeast,  the  Union  line  ran  roughly  west  and  south  to  Three-  Pumpkin  Patch,  then  in  a  rough  half  scimitar  through  Burney's  Slough,  and  thence  downhill  and  north  to  the  Mud  Lane  and  Fichter's  Mill.  In  his  tent,  General  Tillotson  squinted  through  a  haze  of  cigar  smoke  at  his  maps.  From  left  to  right,  his  forces  consisted  of:  the  Eleventh  [REDACTED],  the  Ninth  Penn-  sylvania,  Cowperthwaite's  refitted  Michigan  Volunteers  (the  famed  &quot;Un-  readies&quot;  ),  the  Sixth  [REDACTED],  the  New-  ark  Zouaves,  the  First  and  Second  [REDACTED]  Light  Horse  (soon  to  be  reconstituted  as  the  Ninth  Dismounted  ),  the  Illinois  Rangers,  the  Twenty-Third  New  York,  Farqueherson's  Cavalry,  th  green  [REDACTED]  Sixth,  and,  hold-  ing  the  west  flank,  the  veteran  Patchogue  Irregulars  (&quot;O'Malley's  Jim-Dandies&quot;)  and  Schlieforth's  Bat-  tery.  Two  miles  away,  on  the  dusty  escarpments  of  Enteritis  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  cavalrymen  cursed  as  they  whipped  up  thestraining  mules  that  were  wheeling  the  last  of  Flemming's  artillery  pieces  into  position-aimed,  unfortunately,  in  the  wrong  direction.  Now  Fighting  Fred  Tillotson  sighed  as  he  reread  the  garbled  War  Depart-  ment  telegram,  little  knowing  that  on  the  morrow  its  misplaced  semicolon  was  to  play  such  a-  HEN  Ictinius  returned  thither  with  the  Four  Golden  Loaves,  Queen  Tumulae,  still  disguised  as  a  basket,  became  further  enraged  and  contrived  to  spirit  from  him  the  Mi-  raculous  Quiver.  In  the  meantime,  Magnesia  and  Sternum  were  making  their  way  through  a  thicket  in  pursuit  of  the  Weed  Nymphs,  who,  laughing  together,  ran  toward--  HOTO  (facing  page  97)  showing  the  Kaiser  and  Kaiserin  with  Gen-  eral  Stettin  at  Wandervogel  Field  awaiting  the  arrival  of  the  Airship  Graf  Pforzheim,  which  later  blew  up  at  Cuxhaven.  o  HE  day  before  Drab  Holidays,  according  to  tradition,  we  drove  the  day  boys,  well  routed,  down  the     steps  of  the  Watchtower  and  onto  Prefects'  Green,  where  we  leapt  into  the  fray  afresh  and  proceeded  to  trum-  mel  them  to  the  last  man.  Worth,  the  birching  monitor,  had  wagered  a  bottle  of  shoe  blacking  that  I  could  not  take  the  measure  of  Ned  Sly,  but  my  fore-  knuckles  soon  proved  him  wrong  and  in  the  end  he  had  to  cry,  &quot;Famously  done!&quot;  We  had  won  the  fight  'gainst  the  charity  boys  and  could  now  go  off  a-gaily,  knowing  that,  come  Michael-  mas  Term,  the  Middlers'  baths  would  be  ours.  Now,  to  make  my  joy  com-  plete,  I  saw  Papa's  drayman,  Ben  Drupper,  leading  my  sorrel  pony  through  the  Iron  Archway,  come  to  fetch  me  home  for  the  hols.  His  church  hat  was  tipped  over  one  eye,  and  I  knew  that  in  his  capacious  cloak  pocket  I  would  find-  &amp;  Footnotes,  Chapter  42:  1.  Ulick.  Horace  Ulick  (1797-1863),  well-  known  poet-recluse  of  Wimbledon,  author  of  &quot;Deerpark  Dilemmas&quot;  and  &quot;The  Hermit  of  Sprinthorz.&quot;  2.  She.  Here,  as  elsewhere  in  so  many  of  Dulhill's  letters,  his  cook  and  housekeeper  Dorothy.  3.  Darkened,  Yea!  First  words  ofthe  unfin-  ished  poem:  &quot;Darkened,  Yea!  The  faded  path  Where  once  the  Baby  Rupert  trod.  Airily,  airily  thrice  he  hath  Leapt  the  froglets'  fenny  bog.&quot;  4.  Queasyhaven,  A  club  to  which  Dulhill  be-  longed.  5.  Plump  morsel.  bought  by  Jack  Stark.  6.  Slapsinge.  A  two-handed  game  of  cards  in  which  all  the  cards  below  the  sevens  are  flipped  toward  the  stove,  7.  Emmet.  In  this  case,  probably  not  Lady  Caroline  but  an  ant.  A  nine-pound  sausage "