 NINETY~NINE  YEARS  IS  NOT  FOREVER  E  ELL  you  something,  babes,film  I  is  the  most  exciting  of  all  the  arts.  Nothing  to  compare  with  it.  Name  a  film?  Man,  I  don't  see  them.  The  last  flick  other  than  my  own  I  saw  was  &quot;Home  in  Indiana,&quot;  with  Lon  McCallister  and  Walter  Brennan.  I  make  them.  That's  exciting.  The  name  T.  B.  Dollermacher  on  the  credits  means  verismo  witha  capital  mo.  And  it's  exciting  for  the  actors,  too,  I'm  here  to  say.  One  of  my  best  actors  is  doing  a  stretch  in  the  slammer  in  [REDACTED].  Would  you  believe  ninety-  nine  years?  Man,  those  crackers  are  really  heavy  on  a  pot  bust.  Hated  to  lose  that  guy,  too.  Couldn't  act  for  sour  owls,  but  in  my  flicks  that's  an  ad-  vantage.  You  see,  if  you  want  to  look  like  real  people  you  should  come  on  real  terrible,  because  real  people  are  pretty  grungy  actors  when  you  come  right  down  to  it.  Like  all  those  schlock-  meisters  on  &quot;Candid  Camera.&quot;  Anyway,  we  were  in  this  hincty  lit-  tle  town  in  [REDACTED]  doing  this  flick  about  this  rural  pothead,  called  &quot;Geor-  gia  High,&quot;  which  incidentally  Ididfor  fifteen  thousand  and  a  percentage  of  the  grass.  You  liked  that  line,  huh?  The  script  calls  for  this  head  to  bogart  this  joint  on  the  steps  ofthe  local      police  station  and  then  get  busted.  Well,  you  can't  fake  something  like  that,  so  my  lead  actor  agreed  to  go  down  to  the  sheriff's  station  and  actual-  ly  do  it.  I  says  groovy,  and  we  make  it  down  there.  I  got  this  shoulder  camera,  loaded  with  Tri-X,  plus  a  tape  record-  er  which  we  use  for  sound  synch.  Hide  a  transmitter  mike  on  your  actor  and  you're  in  business.  Who  needs  studios?  Anyway,  when  we  get  there  my  nut-  ball  has  forgotten  his  stash.  Luckily,  this  other  head  with  us  has  this  little  bittv  roach  in  his  pocket.  So  we  make  a  Jefferson  airplane  out  of  it,  so  my  actor  won't  burn  his  fingers.  The  way  you  do  that  is  split  a  match  and  stick  the  roach  in  the  split;  this  was  coined  by  students  at  Mo.  U.  who  went  to  Jefferson  City  to  get  high.  Anyway,  he  sits  down  on  the  steps  in  front  of  the  sheriff's  place,  lights  up,  and  takes  a  few  tokes.  Pretty  soon,  out  the  door  comes  this  great  big  porcine  member  of  the  heat,  all  belts  and  bullets  and  pistols  and  keys  and  flashlights  and  clubs  and  helmets.  You  know  the  look  they  have,  like  they've  been  squeezed  into  their  uniforms  with  a  sausage-  stuffer.  Taking  his  cue,  my  buddy  bogarts  the  joint  and  it  bounces  right  off  the  heat's  size-13D  black  brogues.  Well,  The  Man,  being  rural,  figures  this  is  just  a  Bull  Durham  roll-your-  own.  But  then  he  spots  this  freaky-  looking  cat  and  decides  to  check  him  out.  Anyway,  a  full  bust  ensues.  Christ,  it  was  beautiful.  A  big  frisk.  Hands  on  the  neck,  up  against  the  wall.  Hand-  cuffs.  The  whole  bit.  The  heat  even  read  off  the  Miranda  warning.  Have  you  ever  heard  that  done  in  cracker  dialect?  Wild!  The  sound  level  was  perfect,  too.  Of  course  it  was  a  very  bad  scene,  and  I  needed  absolute  zero  cool  to  keep  the  camera  going.  After  all,  this  was  my  best  friend.  I  even  followed  them  into  the  station  and  caught  some  great  action  shots  where  they  worked  him  over  and  then  cut  off  his  Commie-  Jew-degenerate-dope-fiend  long  hair.  Great  footage!  If  you  saw  the  picture,  you  noticed  how  the  camera  shakes  there  a  little  bit.  Judith  Crist  loved  that  tremble.  She  said  it  evoked  &quot;the  essential  unclarity  of  violence.&quot;  Actual-  Iv,  I  was  just  shook  up  seeing  my  bud-  dy  get  it.  But  art  transcends  all,  man.  If  1d  pulled  my  finger  off  that  camera  button,  I  wouldn't  deserve  the  name  of  auteur.  It  was  the  chance  of  a  lifetime.  Beautiful!  I  felt  a  bit  remorseful  about  it  later,  of  course.  After  all,  it  wasn't  like  the  guy  was  a  total  stranger,  where  you  can  be  really  detached.  On  the  other  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  hand,  ninety-nine  years  isn't  forever.  And  [REDACTED]  doesn't  have  the  worst  pris-  ons.  They  say  [REDACTED]  is  raunchier.  I  even  went  up  to  visit  him  at  the  peniten-  tiary.  He's  in  solitary  to  keep  him  from  corrupting  the  good  prisoners.  Got  some  great  footage.  Once  you've  seen  a  man  really  break  down  and  cry,  you  know  that  when  you  saw  the  same  thing  in  commercial  flicks  it  was  pure  Du  Pont.  I  THINK  the  worst  thing  about  this  business  is  the  way  you  keep  losing  ac-  tors  and  other  people  just  when  you've  begun  to  get  attached  to  them.  It's  like  this  stew  in  that  airline  ad.  You've  seen  it?  She  says  it's  sad  because  you  make  such  nice  friends  on  every  flight  and  then  you  never  see  them  again.  That  really  gets  to  me.  Take  Greg  What-Was-His-  Name.  Any  way,  it  doesn't  matter-he's  in  [REDACTED]  now.  We  came  up  with  this  idea  for  this  ab-  solutely  stone-great  scene,  where  Greg  would  chew  out  his  draft  board  with  this  real  heavy  language.  I  mean  gut  them,  man.  Leave  them  wasted.  I'm  right  behind  him,  of  course,  schlepping  the  camera  and  the  tape  recorder.  It  was  beautiful.  That  look  of  moral  out-  rage  that  suffused  the  board  members'  faces  when  he  told  them  they  were  a  passel  of  menopausal,  anal-sadistic  coolie-burners  was  something  that  could  never  have  been  counterfeited.  I  still  say  he  can  appeal  the  whole  thing-the  courts  say  they  had  no  right  to  do  what  they  did-but  he  doesn't  seem  to  answer  my  letters.  I  suppose  when  you're  out  patrolling  the  D.M.Z.  the  mail  service  isn't  too  hot.  Then  there  was  my  kid  brother,  Brad.  The  one  with  the  bad  com-  plexion.  He  was  a  real  up-front  guy.  First,  he  gets  bustedout  of  Everett  Dirksen  High  School  for  setting  fire  to  the  drum  majorettes'  uniforms.  It  was  the  nearest  he  could  come  to  an  anti-  R.O.T.C.  demo,  and  I  needed  the  shot  for  my  &quot;Diary  of  a  Tenth-Grade  Maoist.&quot;  Then,  just  last  spring,  we  were  doing  this  film  on  bike  freaks  you  know,  outlaw  cyclists,  on  those  choppers  with  the  high-rise  handlebars.  Bceelzebub's  Bastards,  they  were  called.  I  remember  we  were  sitting  around  rapping  one  night,  and  Brad  says,  &quot;You  know,  they  say  these  studs  will  jump  anybody  en  masse  who  fools  with  any  cat  in  their  club.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Let's  find  out,&quot;  and  he  was  game.  A  real  little  21     &quot;I  am  calling  from  an  antique  phone,  Operator,  and  I  want  Information,  not  Directory  Assistance.&quot;  \xc2\xae  \xc2\xae  Godard.  So  the  next  day  he  throws  this  glass  of  beer  right  in  the  faceof  this  scuzzy  broad  who  was  sitting  with  a  particularly  rank  member  of  the  Bas-  tards,  name  of  Toad.  By  God,  were  we  ever  right!  What  a  scene!  They  came  at  him  like  Siva  the  Destroyer-  you  know,  all  arms.  As  I  was  shooting,  I  remember  thinking,  Those  bicycle  chains  must  be  hurting  him,  and  yet  I  couldn't  let  myself  believe  it.  Know  what  I  mean?  I  figuredhe'd  come  out  O.K.,and  he  did,  except  that  the  mouth  doesn't  come  together  too  good  on  one  side.I  told  him  that  if  I  ever  needed  a  guy  with  a  crooked  smile,  'd  definitely  pencil  him  in.  I  got  some  great  shots  of  him  in  Bellevue  when  I  gave  him  this  good  news,  but  the  acoustics  in  that  place  are  nowhere,  man.  I  tell  you,  babes,  it's  lonely  out  here  in  front.  Of  all  the  gardes,  the  avant  is  the  saddest.  Now,  on  top  of  every-  thing  else,  I  got  this  real  career  crisis.  Or  you  might  call  it  a  crise  de  nerfs,  the  way  they  do  in  Cahiers.  What  it  boils  down  to  is,  am  I  an  artist,  like  Blake  or  Brecht  or  Pennebaker,  or  am  I  pure  polyethylene?  When  Ican't  stand  the  heat,  will  I  split  the  kitchen?  You  see,  there's  this  scene  in  my  new  flick,  as  yet  untitled,  in  which  these  two  gorilla-size  D.A.R.  moms  walk  into  the  office  of  the  leading  practi-  tioner  of  cin\xc3\xa9ma  v\xc3\xa9rit\xc3\xa9  (starting  to  get  the  point?  ),  call  him  a  Commie  rat  fink  who  is  destroying  the  minds  and  morals  of  our  youth,  and  then  pull  out  these  cans  of  Mace  from  their  knitting  bags.  Even  though  their  aim  is  a  little  wild,  they  get  him  pretty  good  around  his  gray,  discerning  eyes,  and  who  knows  if  he'll  ever  be  able  to  read  a  light  meter  again?  His  pupils  get  this  strange  look,  like  they've  lost  the  ability  to  zoom.  There's  only  one  way  to  shoot  that  scene,  isn't  there?  You  couldn't  fake  something  like  that. "