b"THE  WEDDING  RING  N  my  windowsill  is  a  pack  of  cards,  a  bell,  a  dog's  brush,a  book  about  a  girl  named  Jewel  who  is  a  Christian  Scientist  and  won't  let  anyone  take  her  temperature,  and  a  white  jug  holding  field  flowers.  The  water  in  the  jug  has  evaporated;  the  sand-and-amber  flowers  seem  made  of  paper.  The  weather  bulletin  forthe  day  can  be  one  of  several:  No  sun.  A  high  arched  yellow  sky.  Or,  creamy  clouds,  stillness.  Long  motionless  grass.  The  earth  soaks  up  the  sun.  Or,  the  sky  is  higher  than  it  ever  will  seem  again,  and  the  sun  far  away  and  small.  From  the  window,  a  field  full  of  goldenrod,  then  woods;  to  the  left  as  you  stand  at  the  front  door  of  the  cot-  tage,  the  mountains  of  [REDACTED].  The  screen  door  slams  and  shakes  my  bed.  That  was  my  cousin.  The  couch  with  the  496e646961  print  spread  in  the  next  room  has  been  made  up  for  him.  He  is  the  only  boy  cousin  I  have,  and  the  only  American  relation  my  age.  We  expected  him  to  be  homesick  for  [REDACTED].  When  he  disappeared  the  first  day,  we  thought  we  would  find  him  erying  with  his  head  in  the  wild  cucum-  ber  vine;  but  all  he  was  do-  ing  was  making  the  out-  house  tidy,  dragging  out  of  it  last  year's  magazines.  He  discovers  a  towel  aban-  doned  under  his  bed  by  an-  other  guest,  and  shows  it  to  each  of  us.  He  has  un-  packed  a  trumpet,  a  hatch-  et,  a  pistol,  and  a  water  bottle.  He  is  ready  for  any-  thing  except  my  mother,  who  scares  him  to  death.  My  mother  is  a  vixen.  Everyone  who  sees  her  that  summer  will  remember,  later,  the  gold  of  her  eyes  and  the  lovely  movement  of  her  head.  Her  hair  is  true  russet,  She  has  the  bloom  women  have  some-  times  when  they  are  preg-  nant  or  when  they  have  fallen  in  love.  She  can  be  wild,  bitter,  complaining,  and  ugly  as  a  witch,  but  that  summer  is  her  peak.  She  has  fallen  in  love.  My  father  is-I  sup-  pose-in  [REDACTED].  The  guest  who  seems  to  have  replaced  him  except  in  au-  thority  over  me  (he  is  still  careful,  still  courts  my  favor)  drives  us  to  a  movie.  It  is  a  musical  full  of  monstrously  large  people.  My  cousin  sits  intent,  bites  his  nails,  chews  a  sling-  shot  during  the  love  scenes.  He  sud-  denly  dives  down  in  the  dark  to  look  for  lost,  mysterious  objects.  He  has  seen  so  many  movies  that  this  one  is  nearly  over  before  he  can  be  certain  he  has  seen  it  before.  He  always  knows  what  is  going  to  happen  and  what  they  are  going  to  say  next.  At  night  we  hear  the  radio-dis-  embodied  voices  in  a  competition,  iden-  tifying  tunes.  My  mother,  in  the  living  room,  seen  from  my  bed,  plays  solitaire  and  says  from  time  to  time,  &quot;That's  an  old  song  I  like,&quot;  and  &quot;When  you  play  solitaire,  do  you  turn  out  two  cards  or  three?&quot;  My  cousin  is  not  asleep  either;  he  stirs  on  his  couch.  He  shares  his  room  with  the  guest.  Years  later  we  will  be  astonished  to  realize  how  young  \\  omit  *  Z  =  41  the  guest  must  have  been-twenty-  three,  perhaps  twenty-four.  My  cousin,  in  his  memories,  shared  a  room  with  a  middle-aged  man.  My  mother  and  I,  for  the  first  and  last  time,  ever,  sleep  in  the  same  bed.  I  see  her  turning  out  the  cards,  smoking,  drinking  cold  coffee  from  a  breakfast  cup.  The  single  light  on  the  table  throws  the  room  against  the  black  window.  My  cousin  and  I  each  have  an  extra  blanket.  We  for-  get  how  the  evening  sun  blinded  us  at  suppertime-how  we  gasped  for  breath.  My  mother  remarks  on  my  hair,  my  height,  my  teeth,  my  French,  and  what  I  like  to  eat,  as  if  she  had  never  seen  me  before.  Together,  we  wash  our  hair  in  the  stream.  The  stones  at  the  bottom  are  the  color  of  trout.  There  is  a  smell  of  fish  and  wildness  as  I  kneel  on  a  rock,  as  she  does,  and  plunge  my  head  in  the  water.  Bubbles  of  soap  dance  in  place,  as  if  rooted,  then  the  roots  stretch  and  break.  In  a    " b"42,  delirium  of  happiness  I  memorize  ferns,  moss,  grass,  seedpods.  We  sunbathe  on  camp  cots  dragged  out  in  the  long  grass.  The  strands  of  wet  hair  on  my  neck  are  like  melting  icicles.  Her  &quot;Never  look  straight  at  the  sun&quot;  seems  extravagantly  concerned  with  my  wel-  fare.  Through  eyelashes  I  peep  at  the  milky-blue  sky.  The  sounds  of  this  bliss-  ful  moment  arethe  radio  from  the  house;  my  cousin  opening  aginger-ale  bottle;  the  stream,  persistent  as  ma-  chinery.  My  mother,  still  taking  extraor-  dinary  notice  of  me,  says  that  while  the  sun  bleaches  her  hair  and  makes  it  light  and  fine,  dark  hair  (mine)  turns  ugly-&quot;like  a  rusty  old  stove  lid&quot;-and  should  be  covered  up.  I  dart  into  the  cottage  and  find  a  hat:  a  wide  straw  hat,  belonging  to  an  unknown  summer.  It  is  so  large  I  have  to  hold  it  with  a  hand  flat  upon  the  crown.  I  may  look  funny  with  this  hat  on,but  at  least  I  shall  never  be  like  a  rusty  old  stove  lid.  The  cots  are  empty;  my  mother  has  gone.  By  mistake,  she  is  walking  away  through  the  goldenrod  with  the  guest,  turned  up  from  God  knows  where.  They  are  walking  as  if  they  wish  they  were  invisible,  of  course,  but  to  me  it  is  only  a  mistake,  and  I  call  and  run  and  push  my  way  between  them.  He  would  like  to  take  my  hand,  or  pretends  he  would  like  to,  but  I  need  my  hand  for  the  hat.  My  mother  is  developing  one  of  her  favorite  themes-her  lackof  roots.  To  give  the  story  greater  power,  or  be-  cause  she  really  believes  what  she  is  saying  at  that  moment,  she  gets  rid  of  an  extra  parent:  &quot;I  never  felt  I  hadany  stake  anywhere  until  my  parents  died  and  I  had  their  graves.  The  graves  were  my  only  property.  I  felt  I  be-  longed  somewhere.&quot;  Graves?  What  does  she  mean?  My  grandmother  is  still  alive.  'T  hat's  so  sad,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Don't  you  ever  feel  that  way?&quot;  He  tries  to  match  her  tone.  &quot;Oh,  I  wouldn't  care.  I  think  everything  was  meant  to  be  given  away.  Even  a  grave  would  bea  tie.  I'd  pretend  not  to  know  where  it  was.&quot;  &quot;My  father  and  mother  didn't  get  along,  and  that  prevented  me  feeling  close  to  any  country,&quot;  says  my  mother.  This  may  be  new  to  him,  but,  like  my  cousin  at  a  musical  comedy,  I  know  it  by  heart,  or  something  near  it.  &quot;I  was  divorced  from  the  landscape,  as  they  were  from  each  other.  I  was  too  taken  up  wondering  what  was  going  to  hap-  pen  next.  The  first  country  I  loved  was  somewhere  in  the  north  of  [REDACTED].  I  went  there  with  my  mother.  My  father  was  dead  and  my  mother  was  less  tense  and  I  was  free  of  their  trou-  bles.  That  is  the  truth,&quot;  she  says,  with  some  astonishment.  HE  sun  drops,  the  surface  of  the  leaves  turns  deep  blue.  My  father  lets  a  parcel  fall  on  the  kitchen  table,  for  at  the  end  of  one  of  her  long,  shat-  tering,  analytical  letters  she  has  put  &quot;P.S.  Please  bring  a  four-pound  roast  and  some  sausages.&quot;  Did  the  guest  de-  part?  He  must  have  dissolved;  he  is  no  longer  visible.  To  show  that  she  is  loyal,  has  no  secrets,  she  will  repeat  every  word  that  was  said.  But  my  father,  now  endlessly  insomniac  and  vigilant,  looks  as  if  it  were  he  who  had  secrets,  who  is  keeping  something  back.  The  children-hostages  released-  are  no  longer  required.  In  any  case,  their  beds  are  needed  for  Labor  Day  weekend.  I  am  to  spend  six  days  with  my  cousin  in  [REDACTED]-a  stay  that  will,  in  fact,  be  prolonged  many  months.  My  mother  stands  at  the  door  of  the  cottage  in  nightgown  and  sweater,  brown-faced,  smiling.  The  tall  field  grass  is  greywith  cold  dew.  The  win-  dows  of  the  car  are  frosted  with  it.  My  father  will  put  us  on  a  train,  in  care  of  a  conductor.  Both  my  cousin  and  I  are  used  to  this.  &quot;He  and  Jane  are  like  sister  and  brother,&quot;  she  says-this  of  my  cousin  and  me,  who  do  not  care  for  each  other,.  Uncut  grass.  I  saw  the  ring  fall  into  it,  but  I  am  toldI  did  not-I  was  al-  ready  in  [REDACTED].  The  weekend  party,  her  chosen  audience,  watched  her  rise,  without  warning,  from  the  wicker  chair  on  the  porch.  An  admirer  of  Russian  novels,  she  would  love  to  make  an  immediate,  Russian  gesture,  but  can-  not.  The  porch  is  screened,  so,  to  throw  her  wedding  ring  away,  she  must  have  walked  a  few  steps  to  the  door  and  the\xc2\xbb  made  her  speech,  and  flung  the  ring  into  the  twilight,  in  a  great  spinning  arc.  The  others  looked  for  it  next  day,  discreetly,  but  it  had  disappeared.  First  it  slipped  under  one  of  those  sharp  bluish  stones,  then  a  beetle  moved  it.  It  left  its  print  on  a  cushion  of  moss  after  the  first  winter.  No  one  else  could  have  worn  it.  My  mother's  hands  were  small,  like  mine.  "