  THE  CORNER  HE  town  is  one  of  those  that  I  people  pass  through  on  the  way  to  somewhere  else;  so  its  inhab-  itants  have  become  expert  in  giving  di-  rections.  Ray  Blandycannot  be  on  his  porch  five  minutes  beforea  car,  baffled  by  the  lack  ofsigns  at  the  corner,  will  shout  to  him,  &quot;Is  this  the  way  to  the  wharf?&quot;  or  &quot;Am  I  on  the  right  road  to  East  Mather?&quot;  Using  words  and  ges-  tures  that  have  become  rote,  Ray  heads  it  on  its  way,  with  something  of  the  sat-  isfaction  with  which  he  mails  a  letter,  or  flushes  a  toilet,  or  puts  in  another  week  at  Universal  Electronics.  Catty-  corner  across  the  awkward  intersec-  tion  (Wharf  Street  swerves  south  and  meets  Reservoir  Road  and  Prudence  Street  at  acute,  half-blind  angles),  Mr.  Latroy,  a  milkman  who  is  home  from  noon  on,  and  who  is  also  an  auxiliary  policeman,  directs  automobiles  uncer-  tain  if,  to  reach  the  famous  old  textile  mill  in  Lacetown,  they  should  bear  left  around  the  traffic  island  or  go  straight  up  the  hill.  There  is  nothing  on  the  corner  to  hold  cars  here  except  the  small  variety  store  run  by  an  old  Dutch  couple,  the  Van  Der  Bijns.  Its  modest  size  and  dim,  rusted  advertise-  ments  are  geared  to  foot  traffic.  Chil-  \xc2\xab  dren  going  to  school  stop  here  for  candy,  and  townspeople  after  work  stop  for  cigarettes  and  bread,  but  for  long  tracts  of  the  day  there  is  little  for  Mr.,  \\  \\1  \xe2\x80\x98  Mr]  \xe2\x80\x98  f  I3  [j  \\  4)  QM\xe2\x80\x9c).  H  o  }  if  y*  *  Ne  --_~-  z  u\xe2\x80\x94  \xe2\x80\x98f\xe2\x80\x98L\xe2\x80\x98X/  \xe2\x80\x98  if\xe2\x80\x98  goblin  2&quot;  m  &amp;  sae     Van  Der  Bijn  to  do  but  sit  behind  his  display  windows  and  grieve  that  the  cars  passing  through  take  the  corner  too  fast.  There  have  been  accidents.  Eight  years  ago,  around  eleven  o'clock  of  a  muggy  July  morning,  when  Susan  Craven  had  been  standing  on  her  side-  walk  wondering  whether  she  should  go  to  the  playground  or  give  Linda  La-  troy's  backyard  one  more  try,  a  clam-  fish  truck  hurriedly  rounding  the  cor-  ner  snapped  a  kingbolt,  went  right  up  over  the  banking,  swung-while  the  driver  wildly  twisted  the  slack  steering  wheel-within  a  foot  of  unblinking,  preoccupied  Susan,  bounced  back  down  the  banking,  straight  across  Prudence  Street,  and  smack,  in  a  shower  of  shin-  gles,  into  the  house  then  owned  by  Miss  Beulah  Cogswell.  She  has  since  died,  after  living  for  years  on  her  telling  of  the  accident:  &quot;W  ell,  I  was  in  the  kitch-  en  making  my  morning  tee  and  natu-  rally  thought  it  was  just  exother  of  those  dreadful  sonic  booms.  But,  when  I  go  with  my  cup  and  saucer  into  the  front  parlor  here  right  where  my  tele-  vision  set  had  been  was  this  dirty  wind-  shield  with  a  man's  absolutely  white  face,  mouthing  like  a  fish,  the  carpet  drenched  with  shingles  and  plaster  and  the  corner  cupboard  three  feet  into  the  room  and  not  one,  would  you  believe  it,  not  a  single  piece  of  bone  china  so  much  as  cracked!&quot;  Now  her  house  is  occupied  by  a  young  couple  with  a  baby  that  cries  all  night.  The  Cravens  have  moved  to  Falmouth,  selling  their  house  to  the  Blandys.  And  the  Latroy  girls  have  heard  that  Susan  is  married,  to  an  Air  Force  man  from  Otis,  though  eight  years  ago,  when  death  brushed  her,  she  was  only  eleven.  Long  before  this,  so  long  ago  only  the  Van  Der  Bijns  and  Mrs.  Billy  Hannaford  witnessed  the  wreckage,  a  drunken  driver  took  the  corner  too  fast  in  the  opposite  direction  from  the  truck  and  skidded  up  over  the  curb  into  the  left-hand  display  window  of  the  variety  store.  No  one  was  hurt;  the  Van  Der  Bijns  were  asleep  up-  stairs  and  the  drunk,  well  known  lo-  cally,  remained  relaxed  and  amused.  But  the  accident  left  a  delicate  scar  on  the  corner,  in  the  perceptible  dis-  parity  between  the  two  large  plate-  glass  panes:  the  left  one  is  less  wavery  and  golden  in  tint  than  the  right,  and  its  frame  is  of  newer  molding,  which  does  not  perfectly  match.  Somewhere  between  these  two  ac-  cidents  there  is  an  old  man  down  from  New  Hampshire,  lost,  blinded,  he  said,  by  blazing  headlights,  who  drove  right  over  the  traffic  island,  straddling  it  in  his  high  1939  Buick,  shearing  off  the  Stop  sign  and  eviscerating  his  muffler  on  the  stump.  And  lost  in  the  snowy  mists  of  time  is  the  child  who  sledded  down  Reservoir  Road  and  was  crushed  beneath  a  Studebaker,  in  the  days  before  cars  could  be  counted  on  to  be  everywhere.  It  is  strange  that  more  acci-  dents  do  not  occur.  Everyone  ignores  the  rusty  Stop  sign.  Teen-agers  begin  drag  races  down  by  the  wharf  and  use  the  traffic  islandas  a  finish  post.  Friday  and  Saturday  nights,  there  is  screeching  and  roaring  until  two  and  three  in  the  morning.  Trucks  heave  and  shift  gears,  turning  north.  Summer  weekends  see  apa-  rade  of  motorboats  on  trailers.  The  housing  development,  Marshview,  on  [REDACTED]  end  of  town,  adds  dozens  ofcars  to  the  daily  traffic.  The  corner  has  been  already  widened-  the  Van  Der  Bijns'  house  once  had  afrontyard.  Old  photo-  graphs  exist,  on  sepia  card-  board,  that  show  fewer  wires  on  the  poles,  a  great  maple  where  none  now  stands,  a  front  yard  at  the  house  that  was  notthen  a  store,  the  dark  house  painted  white,  no  porch  ~D\\  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  at  the  Blandys',  no  traffic  island,  and  a  soft,  trodden,  lanelike  look  to  the  surface  of  the  street.  When  the  Van  Der  Bijns  move  or  die  (the  same  thing  in  the  eyes  of  the  town),  their  house  will  be  taken  by  eminent  domain  and  the  corner  widened  still  further,  enabling  the  cars  to  go  still  faster.  Engineers'  drawings  are  already  on  file  at  Town  Hall.  Yet,  though  the  in-  habitants  strain  their  ears  at  night  waiting  for  the  squeal  of  tires  to  mushroom  into  the  crash  of  metal  and  the  splintering  of  glass,  nothing  usually  happens.  The  corner  is  one  of  those  places  where  nothing  much  happens  except  traffic  and  weath-  er.  Even  death,  when  it  came  for  Miss  Cogswell,  came  as  a  form  of  traffic,  as  an  ambulance  in  the  driveway,  and  a  cluster  of  curious  neighborhood  chil-  dren.  The  weather  happens  mostly  in  the  elm,  a  vast  elm  not  yet  felled  by  the  blight.  Its  branches  overarch  the  cor-  ner.  Its  drooping  twigs  brush  the  roofs  of  the  dark  house,  the  young  couple's  house,  and  the  Latroys'.  Shaped  like  a  river  system,  meandering  tributaries  thickening  and  flowing  into  the  trunk,  but  three-dimensional,  a  solid  set  of  streets  where  pigeons  strut,  meet,  and  mate,  the  tree's  pattern  of  limbs  fills  the  Blandys'  bedroom  windows  and  their  eyes  on  awaking  in  all  weathers:  glistening  and  sullen  in  November  rain,  so  one  feels  the  awful  weight  the  tree  upholds,  like  a  cast-iron  cloud;  airy  tracery  after  a  snow,  or  in  the  froth  of  bloom;  in  summer  a  curtain  of  green,  with  a  lemon-yellow  leaf,  turned  early,  here  and  there,  like  a  random  stitch.  Lying  bedridden  in  fever  or  in  despair,  it  has  seemed  to  each  of  the  Blandys,  separately,  that  though  there  was  nothing  to  life  but  lying  here  look-  ing  at  the  elm  forever,  it  would  suf-  fice-it  would  be,  though  just  barely,  enough.  The  elm's  leaves  in  autumn  blow  by  the  bushel  down  Prudence  Street  into  the  Van  Der  Bijns'  side  yard,  con-  firming  the  old  man's  contention  that  the  weather  is  always  outrageous.  He  came  to  this  country  before  the  war,  foreseeing  it,  and  still  finds  the  intem-  perancies  of  the  American  climate  re-  markable,  The  faithful  gray  damp  of     Holland  is  in  his  bones.  For  months  ahead  of  time,  he  foreseesthe  trouble-  some  wonder  of  snow,  and  gloats  over  his  bizarre  fate  of  having  to  shovel  it.  Though  weak  from  his  long  days  of  sitting,  he  shovels  compulsively,  even  during  a  blizzard  trying  to  keep  his  forty  feet  of  sidewalk  as  clean  as  swept  tiles.  Some  ironical  gallantry  seems  in-  tended-a  humorous  grateful  willing-  ness  to  have  the  land  that  gave  him  refuge  take  his  life  with  its  barbaric  weather.  Our  summer's  extremes  also  astonish  him.  Four  sunny  days  become  a  drought  inhis  eyes,  which  are  delft  blue  and  perpetually  wide  open,  within  deep,  skeletal  sockets.  Each  growing  season,  as  he  observes  its  effects  on  Mrs.  Hannaford's  bushes  and  lawn,  seems  in  some  way  abnormal,  unprece-  dented,  weird.  &quot;Naaow,  da  forsydia  last  yaar  wasn't  aaout  yet  yor  two  weeks!&quot;  &quot;Naaow,  T'fe  nefer  once  zeen  her  grass  zo  zoon  brown!&quot;  And  Mrs.  Hannaford,  whose  house  of  all  the  houses  on  the  corner  is  most  distant  from  the  elm,  sees  this  tree  as  a  benign  veil  drawn  across  the  tar-  shingled  roofs  and  ungainly  dormers  of  the  neighborhood,  as  a  sea  fan  super-  imposed  on  acockleshell  sunset,  as  a  livingentity  that  has  doubled  its  size  since  as  a  girl  she  studied  it  from  the  same  windows  she  now  sleeps  behind,  and  thought  she  saw  the  silhouette  of  Jesus  moving  in  its  branches,  and  wondered  if  the  end  of  the  world  had  come,  The  people  on  the  corner  do  not  know  each  other  very  well.  It  is  the  houses  who  know  each  other,  whose  windows  watch.  Mrs.  Billy  Hanna-  ford  goes  to  the  Episcopal  church  whenever  Communion  is  offered;  she  39  dresses  in  purple  and  walks  with  a  cane,  her  cheeks  painted  salmon,  her  hair  rinsed  blue.  Some  weekend  nights,  cars  belonging  to  the  Blandys'  friends  are  parked  in  front  of  their  house  until  hours  after  midnight.  The  young  couple's  baby  cries.  The  man  who  lives  in  the  dark  house  is  off  in  his  car  from  seven  to  sev-  en,  and  his  wife  is  in-  distinguishable  among  the  two  or  three  gin-  ger-haired  women  who  come  and  go.  The  Latroys  have  beautiful  blond  daughters,  and  much  of  the  hot-rod-  ding  on  the  corner  is  for  theirbenefit.  This  is  what  the  houses  know  of  each  other's  inner  lives,  what  their  windows  can  verify.  AIN  made  Ray  Blandy  romantic  and  he  had  hoped  to  make  love,  but  his  wife  had  fallen  asleep  in  the  middle  of  an  embrace,  and  he  had  risen  from  the  bed  in  anger.  It  was  Saturday  midnight.  He  stood  by  the  window,  wanting  to  be  loved  by  the  rain,.  There  was  a  nearing  roar  of  motors  and  a  braking  slither,  and  he  saw  (this  is  what  he  thought  he  saw  )  a  speeding  VW  bus  pursued  by  a  black  sedan.  The  bus  disappeared  be-  hind  the  edge  of  the  dark  house.  The  sedan  skidded  on  the  smooth  patch  where  just  that  April  some  frost,  heaves  had  been  re-tarred.  The  sedan's  weight  swung  from  side  to  side,  like  an  accelerated  dance  step.  Out  of  con-  trol,  the  car  went  up  with  one  pair  of  tires  onto  the  sidewalk,  and  also  dis-  appeared.  Then,  there  was  a  thump,  not  deafening  but  definite,  and  deeply  satisfying;  and  a  silence.  Then  the  high-pitched  gear  whine  ofa  prolonged  backing-up.  The  VW  bus  appeared,  backward,  from  behind  the  dark  house.  Shouting  voices  dropped  to  a  mutter.  Mr.  Latroy,  wearing  his  auxil-  iary-policeman's  badge,  appeared  in  front  of  his  house.  The  Van  Der  Bijns'  lights  went  on.  June  Blandy  sat  up  in  bed.  &quot;What  was  that?&quot;  &quot;You  mean  you  weren't  asleep,  you  were  just  faking?&quot;  &quot;I  was  sound  asleep,  but  something  thumped.&quot;  &quot;Sonic  boom,&quot;  he  told  her.  She  missed  the  allusion.  He  told  her,  &quot;A  car  lost  control  going  around  the  cor-  " b"40  ner  and  hit  something  up  the  street.  I  can't  see  what.&quot;  &quot;Why  are  you  just  standing  there?  Let's  go.&quot;  Last  year,  when  a  dog  had  been  hit  on  the  corner  and  their  neigh-  bors  from  the  curb  idly  watched  it  yelp  and  writhe,  she  had  spontaneously  run  into  the  street  and  taken  the  broken  animal  into  her  arms.  Now  she  put  on  her  bathrobe  and  was  past  him,  and  down  the  stairs,  and  out  the  door.  He  looked  in  two  closets  for  a  bathrobe  or  a  raincoat  and,  afraid  of  missing  ev-  erything,  followed  her  into  the  driz-  zle  in  his  pajamas.  The  corner  had  cracked  open  like  a  pinata,  spilling  gaily  dressed  people.  Mr.  VanDer  Bijn  wore  a  long  night-  cap,  with  a  tassel-who  would  have  imagined  it?  Mrs.,  her  daytime  braids  undone,  had  gray  hair  down  to  her  waist.  The  young  mother,  baby  on  hip,  wore  bell-bottom  pants  of  crimson  crushed  velvet:  her  normal  at-home  costume?  Why  were  so  many  people  up  and  dressed  after  midnight?  Did  Mr.  Latroy  never  sleep?  His  milk  route  be-  gan  at  four.  From  the  dark  house  emerged  two  middle-aged  women,  ginger-haired  and  flirtatious,  in  house  slippers.  &quot;That's  a  cute  costume,&quot;  one  of  them  said  to  Ray.  A  tense,  slight  man  with  a  rash  of  pimples  on  his  forehead,  he  looked  down  and  adjust-  ed  his  pajama  fly.  His  wife  told  him,  &quot;About  six  peo-  ple  got  out  of  the  car  into  the  bus  and  drove  away.  Shouldn't  somebody  have  stopped  them,  or  done  something?&quot;  She  had  turned  from  him  to  address  a  larger  audience,  her  voice  lifted  operat-  ically.  The  mother  in  red  pants  said,  &quot;One  of  them  came  into  the  house  to  call  the  police  and  another  one  came  after  her  and  said  not  to  bother,  they'd  drive  to  the  station,  it'd  be  faster.&quot;  She  had  a  narrow,  impoverished  face  but  an  exotic  broad  accent,  Midwestern  or  Western.  As  she  spoke,  she  kept  bouncing  the  baby  on  her  hip.  A  ginger-haired  lady  said,  &quot;One  of  them  said  it  was  all  right,  she  was  the  wife  of  a  fireman.&quot;  &quot;Uh-ohh,&quot;  the  other  said.  &quot;He's  been  going  to  too  many  fires,&quot;  There  was  general  laughter.  The  drizzle  was  lifting,  but  they  drew  snugly  closer  beneath  the  shelter-  ing  elm,  as  if  to  consolidate  their  sud-  den  conquest  of  the  distance  the  houses  had  always  imposed  between  them.  &quot;Nazow,  isn't  dis  wedder  somezing,&quot;  Mr.  Van  Der  Bijn  said,  and  again  they  all  laughed,  having  heard  him  say  it  so  often  before.  The  driver  of  the  disabled  car  glanced  toward  them  enviously. Hi sedan  was  up  the  street,  sideways  against  a  telephone  pole;  it  had  spun  almost  totally  around.  His  gaze  in-  hibited  the  carnival  crowd  on  the  cor-  ner.  He  smelled  of  recent  danger,  and  was  dangerous.  The  man  who  lived  in  the  dark  house  emerged  in  pants  and  rumpled  shirt  and  spectacles;  his  eyes  looked  rubbed,  as  after  sleep  or  a  long  bout  of  television.  His  ladies  grew  ani-  mated;  the  more  flirtatious  one  told  Ray  her  version  of  the  accident.  The  VW  was  coming  down  Prudence  Street,  and  didn't  stop  at  the  Stop  sign,  they  never  do,  and  the  black  sedan,  to  avoid  hitting  it,  swerved  to  the  left,  into  the  pole.  Ray  told  her,  No,  he  had  happened  to  be  at  his  window,  and  the  VW  was  being  chased  by  the  other-  a  drag  race,  obviously.  June  asked,  &quot;Hasn't  exybody  called  the  police?&quot;  Mrs.  Van  Der  Bijn  said,  &quot;Mr.  La-  troy  has.&quot;  But  by  this  she  meant,  prob-  ably,  that  in  a  sense  he  was  police;  for  he  had  not  moved  from  the  sidewalk.  He  stood  there  serenely,  his  face  tilted  upward,  as  if  basking  on  a  sunny  day.  The  window  above  him  lit  up,  and  two  of  his  beautiful  daughters  were  framed  in  it,  their  blond  hair  incandescent.  A  carload  of  male  teen-agers  swung  around  the  corner,  abruptly  braked,  and  eased  by.  The  two  daughters  waved.  Another  car  stopped,  and  asked  the  way  to  East  Mather.  Three  voices  at  once-Ray,  Mr.  Latroy,  and  a  ginger-haired  lady-chorused  the  di-  rections.  June  was  conferring  with  the  girl  in  velvet  pants.  The  girl  agreed  to  go  inside  and  call  the  police.  Her  husband  was  asleep.  He  was  a  very  sound  sleep-  er.  &quot;I  can  never  get  the  lunk  up,  to  take  care  of  the  brat.  Every  night,  it's  the  same  story.&quot;  &quot;She  has  fear,&quot;  Mrs.  Van  Der  Bijn  announced.  &quot;You  must  sing  her  to  sleep.&quot;  The  girl  studied  Mrs.  Van  Der  Bijn  and  handed  her  the  baby  and  went  into  her  house.  The  baby  began  its  fee-  ble,  well-practiced  whimper,  paced  to  last  for  hours.  Mrs.  Van  Der  Bijn  be-  gan  tosing,  in  a  distant  lost  language,  low  in  her  throat.  The  driver  of  the  sedan  came  closer.  He  swaggered  like  a  man  with  some-  thing  to  sell,  his  hands  in  his  pockets.  He  was  a  young  stocky  man,  with  hair  combed  wet,  so  the  tooth  furrows  showed.  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  he  told  them.  &quot;I  got  everybody's  number.  Nothing  to  worry  about,&quot;  he  said,  and  told  them  his  story.  There  was  a  third  car.  A  yel-  low  convertible,  a  crazy  man.  Down  by  the  wharf,  it  had  cut  right  in  front  of  him,  right  through  that  metal  rail  there,  and  tried  to  run  him  off  the  road.  He  had  given  chase,  lost  control  at  the  corner,  and  had  this  accident.  There  was  a  VW  bus  right  behind  him.  It  had  stopped,  and  the  people  in  it  had  said  they  knew  the  driver  of  the  convertible,  and  would  catch  himand  bring  him  back.  As  some  kind  of  insurance,  the  sedan's  passengers  had  crowded  into  the  bus,  and  off  they  had  " b" all  gone.  They  should  be  back  any  minute.  At  any  rate,  it  didn't  matter,  because  he  had  the  numbers.  It  was  a  strange  story,  but  he  pulled  from  a  pocket  the  little  pad  upon  which  he  had  firmly  written  down  two  long  numbers.  Ray  wondered  how  the  man  had  focussed  his  eyes  on  those  speeding,  shuttling  vehicles,  and  why  inhis  own  memory  the  bus  had  been  ahead  of  the  sedan,  and  why  he  had  not  seen  the  third  car,  the  convertible.  The  rest  of  the  corner,  too,  distrusted  the  driver's  story,  and,  amid  polite  comments  and  expressions  of  interest,  slowly  closed  against  him,  isolating  him  again.  Un-  discouraged,  like  an  encyclopedia  sales-  \xc2\xa9U  man  turned  from  the  door,  the  driver  walked  briskly  away,  toward  his  crip-  pled  car  and,  farther  down  the  street,  an  approaching  blue  twinkle.  The  police  car  pulled  up.  They  all  knew  the  cops  that  emerged;  one  was  a  wife-beater,  and  the  other  had  been  a  high-school  football  star.  The  baby's  mother  came  out  of  her  house  and  stood  so  close  that  Ray,  looking  down,  saw  beside  his  own  knobby  wet  bare  feet  cerise  satin  slippers,  with  bunny-tail  pompons.  It  was  as  when  bombs  fall,  baring  swaths  of  wallpaper,  tasselled  furniture,  unexpected  brightnesses,  bro-  ken  diagrams.  The  policemen  softly  in-  terviewed  the  driver,  the  people  at  the  corner  watched  from  a  safe  distance  and  kept  their  versions  to  themselves,  the  gentle  event  of  the  rain  ceased,  the  law  closed  its  notebook,  the  elm  sighed,  the  little  crowd  reluctantly  broke  up  and  returned  to  their  houses.  Later,  some  heard,  but  only  the  street  lamp  saw,  the  tow  truck  come  and  take  the  sedan  away.  Overhead,  the  clouds  paled  and  pulled  apart,  revealing  stars.  The  driver's  story  had  been  strange,  but  no  stranger,  to  the  people  who  live  here,  than  the  truth  that  the  corner  is  one  among  many  on  the  map  of  the  town,  and  the  town  is  a  dot  on  the  map  of  the  state,  and  the  state  a  mere  patch  on  the  globe.  "