"CALLING  ALL  MOTHS:  CANDLE  DEAD  AHEAD  NYONE  working  in  close  prox-  imity  to  women,  I  had  always  supposed,  must  be  very  well  aware  that  his  existence,  like  that  of  a  steel  puddler  daily  exposed  to  the  blast  furnace,  is  fraught  with  peril.  Even  a  veteran-a  floorwalker  long  accus-  tomed  to  their  vagaries,  say-knows  that  the  frenzy  of  a  white  sale  can  so  unhinge  him  that  he  may  round  on  the  customers  and  chew  them  out  un-  mercifully.  Contrariwise,  if  one's  con-  tact  with  the  sex  is  professional,  such  as  a  physician's  ora  chiropractor's,  he  runs  a  worse  risk;  he  may,  in  a  twin-  kling,  become  hopelessly  enamored  of  his  patient  and,  throwing  caution  to  the  winds,  commit  the  most  unimaginable  follies.  It  is  all  the  more  remarkable,  therefore,  that  not  long  ago  a  couple  of  ostensibly  prudent  Britons,  who  you'd  think  would  be  alive  to  this  pitfall,  should  have  fallen  into  it  headlong.  The  first  victim,  as  reported  in  the  Times  over  there,  was  a  [REDACTED]  optician  in  Shepherd's  Bush,  who  allegedly  seduced  the  wife  of  a  trav-  el  agent  while  fitting  her  withcon-  tact  lenses.  &quot;During  several  visits  [to  his  shop],  things  happened  which  were  outside  the  scope  of  an  optician's  duties,&quot;  Lord  Stormont,  the  Crown  prosecutor,  stated  with  consummate  delicacy  when  the  case  eventually  found  its  way  into  court.  A  cautionary  tale  indeed;  a  hitherto  sober  and  levelheaded  oculist  peers  into  orb  after  orb  with  impunity,  along  come  a  pair  that  bulge  in  a  more  than  usually  seductive  fashion,  and-voom-he's  standing  in  the  dock.  The  same  kind  of  fate  befell  the  second  chap,  a  dentist,  whose  downfall  was  also  chronicled  in  the  Times.  Haled  before  the  General  Dental  Council  to  answer  charges  of  misconduct,  he  confessed  to  an  infatuation  with  a  female  patient  that  had  caused  him  to  write  her  and  her  family  eight  hundred  letters.  &quot;Pointing  to  a  suitcase  containing  the  correspondence,&quot;  the  account  went,  &quot;Mr.  Geoffrey  Howe  [attor-  ney  for  the  Council]  said  he  esti-  mated  that  the  letters  contained  about  one  million  words--four  times  as  long  as  'The  Seven  Pillars  of  Wisdom.'&quot;  Why  Lawrence's  classic,  which  has  little  to  do  with  the  molars,  should  be  selected  as  a  unit  of  measure  is  unclear,  but,  in  any  event,  the  affair  much  anguish  can  result  from  a  sim-  ple  prophylaxis.  Could  this  unfortu-  shows  how  nate,  on  first  looking  into  his  patient's  gums,  ever  have  prophesied  the  furor  scribendi  about  to  engulf  him?  Obvi-  ously  not.  And  yet  it  underscores  the  need  for  eternal  vigilance  in  those  ply-  ing  such  hazardous  occupations.  Curiously  enough,  the  threat  isn't  confined  to  men  alone;  women  so  em-  ployed  are  equally  vulnerable,  as  was  borne  out  by  a  recent  experience  of  my  own  in  New  York.  Sojourning  briefly  at  a  Forty-fourth  Street  hotel,  I  had  started  to  shave  one  morning  when  I  discovered  that  the  Durham-  Duplex  blades  supplied  with  the  razor  back  in  1919  were  exhausted.  In  con-  sequence,  I  was  forced  toward  eve-  ning  to  apply  to  a  barbershop  close  by  that  I  hadn't  patronized  before.  Only  the  boss  was  in  evidence,  working  with  visible  haste  on  a  customer,  and  he  shook  his  head  when  I  voiced  my  re-  quest.  &quot;I  have  to  run  over  to  the  Garden  in  a  minute,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  got  a  white       bull  terrier  in  the  dog  show  they're  judging  at  six  o'clock.  But  siddown  anyway-the  other  barber'll  be  right  back.  Say,  Mr.  Weiskopf,&quot;  he  broke  off  distractedly,  &quot;doyou  mind  if  we  leave  the  other  sideburn  go  till  tomorrow?  Buddy  Boy's  cooped  up  in  a  little  cage-&quot;  &quot;Well-l-1,&quot;  the  customer  deliberated,  &quot;I  look  kind  of  lopsided,  but  it  don't  matter,  I  guess-I'm  staying  home  to-  night.&quot;  Scarcely  had  he  gone  and  the  barber  whipped  into  his  overcoat  when  a  sul-  try-eyed  redhead,  in  a  tunic  molding  a  figure  that  vergedon  the  opulent,  hur-  ried  in  from  the  lobby.  As  she  began  railing  at  the  service  in  the  coffee  shop,  the  boss  cut  her  short.  &quot;Skip  it,&quot;  he  said  impatiently,  &quot;Lis-  ten,  Marvene,  do  this  fellow  and  then  close  up.  And  remember  to  lock  the  register,  for  Chrisake.&quot;  She  murmured  some  inaudible  sar-  casm  about  its  contents,  and  bolted  the  door  behind  him  and  drew  the  shades.  A  premonition  stole  over  me  that  I  would  have  done  better  to  disguise  my  beard  with  talcum  than  entrust  it  to  someone  whose  dexterity,  at  least  with  a  razor,  was  question-  able.  I  decided  to  investigate  her  qualifications  to  the  fullest.  &quot;I-er-just  wanted  a  shave,&quot;  I  said,  as  I  hesitantly  settled  back  into  the  chair.  &quot;That's  what  we're  here  for,  Mister,&quot;  she  returned,  propelling  me  into  the  horizontal.  &quot;There,  now-relax.  This  your  first  time  with  a  lady  barber?  ...  I  thought  so.  Well,  don't  worry.  I  know  my  business.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  you  do.&quot;  Still  seek-  ing  reassurance,  I  cleared  my  throat.  &quot;You  must  have  gone  to  a  Berber  college,&quot;  I  ventured,  and  instantly  fell  into  confusion.  It  was  an  unpardonable  gaffe;  nobody  could  have  less  resembled  a  smelly  Saharan  nomad.  Luckily,  Marvene  was  too  busy  fishing  a  hot  towel  from  the  metal  ball  to  take  offense.  &quot;No,  I  didn't,&quot;  she  said,  draping  it  over  my  face.  &quot;I  learned  the  trade  from  my  husband-that  is,  when  he  wasn't  playing  the  horses,  which  was  seldom.  He's  probably  at  the  track  right  now,  blowing  our  rent  money  on  the  sixth.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well,&quot;  I  philosophized  through  the  steam.  &quot;It  keeps  him  out  in  the  open  air.&quot;  &quot;Only  in  the  stretch,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'The  rest  of  the  time  he's  in  the  clubhouse,  guzzling  beer  with     \xc2\xbb)  " b"34  some  hooker  or  other.&quot;  She  rubbed  the  lather  vigorously  into  my  chin,  selected  a  razor,  and  began  to  strop  it.  &quot;Man,  does  he  swing!  I've  seen  chasers  in  my  day,  but  he's  Endsville.&quot;  So  painful  was  the  recollection  of  his  gallantries,  apparently,  that  she  fell  si-  lent,  working  for  an  interval  with  a  deftness  and  speed  beyond  my  expecta-  tions.  During  the  penultimate  stage,  though,  as  she  was  laving  me  with  bay  rum,  I  thought  I  detected  a  very  subtle  pressure,  akin  to  a  caress,  emanating  from  her  fingertips.  I  half  opened  my  eyes  and  beheld  hers  ten  inches  distant,  rimmed  with  mascara  and  shedding  a  candlepower  almost  like  Joan  Craw-  ford's.  &quot;Forgive  me,&quot;  she  said  in  a  low,  throaty  voice  quite  unlike  her  own,  &quot;but  has  anyone  ever  told  you  what  lovely  skin  you  have?&quot;  &quot;I  do?&quot;  I  felt  a  faraway  buzz'ng  in  my  ears,  as  though  I  were  sinking  into  anesthesia.  &quot;It-it  always  seemed  kind  of  leathery.  You  know,  from  the  wind  and  the  frost  in  the  country.&quot;  &quot;That's  crazy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why,  it's  as  smooth  as  a  baby's.  Here,&quot;  she  in-     vited,  placing  my  hand  against  her  cheek.  &quot;Feel.  Yours  is  even  softer  than  mine.&quot;  Limited  as  my  experience  with  the  lovelorn  has  been,  I  knew  enough  in  that  instant  to  beware;  one  false  move  on  my  part  and  this  person  could  turn  into  a  destroying  angel,  equipped  to  do  fearful  damage  with  her  razor.  I  dis-  engaged  myself  as  gently  as  I  was  able  to,  arose,  and  reached  for  my  jacket.  But  Marvene  was  not  to  be  disposed  of  so  easily.  '&quot;What  do  you  use  on  your  face?  Mudpacks?  Beauty  clay?&quot;  she  pressed  me.  &quot;How  do  you  keep  it  that  way?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know-honest,&quot;  I  said,  plucking  a  bill  from  my  wallet.  &quot;Look,  I  hate  to  rush  off,  but  I'm  going  to  the  theatre,  and-&quot;  &quot;It's  early,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Couldn't  we  have  a  drink  somewhere  and  talk  about  our  skins?&quot;  &quot;But  your  husband  ...  Don't  you  have  to  go  home  and  cook  supper?&quot;  She  snorted.  &quot;For  that  muzzler?  Time  he  gets  back  from  the  track,  he's  full  of  popcorn  and  hot  dogs.  I  should  make  souffl\xc3\xa9s  for  him?&quot;    &quot;Well,  I'll  stop  in  some  other  time  to  chin-I  mean,  to  shave,&quot;  I  promised  idiotically,  and  wrenched  open  the  door,  As  I  fled  into  the  street,  Mar-  vene  cast  after  me  a  look  of  such  naked  yearning  that  my  scalp  crawled.  A  tide  of  relief  surged  up  within  me  at  my  escape-a  liberation,  I  was  to  learn  soon  enough,  that  was  merely  a  prel-  ude  to  the  onslaught  to  come.  About  four  days  later,  I  was  in  Brunschweig's,  a  cutlery  store  in  mid-  town,  returning  a  birthday  gift  some  well-meaning  dunderhead  had  given  me-a  rosewood  box  from  which  a  flamingo  on  the  cover  professedly  ex-  tracted  cigarettes  when  a  button  was  pressed.  What  did  emerge,  in  fact,  was  a  mishmash  of  paper  and  tobacco  of  no  earthly  use,  and  I  said  so  with-  out  equivocation.  Just  as  the  clerk  was  rending  the  package  in  a  fury,  Marvene,  her  eyes  alight,  appeared  at  my  side.  &quot;Well,  stranger,  where've  you  been?&quot;  she  greeted  me.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  come  back  like  you  said?&quot;  Startled,  I  pleaded  that  my  beard  hadn't  warranted  it.  &quot;Applesauce,&quot;  she  scoffed.  &quot;Why,  you  need  a  shave  right  now.  Doesn't  he?&quot;  she  appealed  to  the  clerk.  &quot;He  needs  a  lot  more  than  that,&quot;  he  declared.  &quot;And  you  need  a  good  biff  in  the  snoot,&quot;  I  was  about  to  retort  had  Mar-  vene  not  interposed.  She  was  there  to  reclaim  some  scissors  left  to  be  sharp-  ened,  she  explained,  and  went  on  to  cajole  me,  despite  my  misgivings,  into  having  coffee  &amp;  deux  at  a  drugstore  in  the  vicinity.  The  half  hour  we  spent  together  was  an  affliction.  Through-  out,  Marvene  kept  rhapsodizing  about  my  complexion,  exclaiming  over  its  peachlike  texture,  and  speculating  about  what  it  would  look  like  under  a  lens.  She  confessed  that  ever  since  seeing  me  she  had  been  sunk  in  day-  dreams;  wouldn't  I,  couldn't  I,  allow  her  to  shave  me  once  more?  It  was  sickening,  and  yet  her  ardor  was  so  guileless  that  I  was  loath  to  censure  her.  Finally,  however,  I  could  bear  no  more.  &quot;Damn  it,  woman,  pull  yourself  to-  gether!&quot;  I  burst  out.  &quot;You're  mar-  ried-you've  got  responsibilities.  You  can't  go  on  being  infatuated  with  a  person's  skin!&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  she  demanded  quickly.  &quot;Does  it  belong  to  someone  else?&quot;  At  my  reluctant  nod,  her  face  contorted  with  jealousy.  &quot;Can  she  shave  you  lke  I  do?  Ha-ha!  I  bet  she  uses  a  Gil-  lette-a  Schick-&quot;  Goaded  beyond  endurance,  I  sprang  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  up  to  depart,  but  in  my  haste  I  spilled  a  quan-  tity  of  mail  from  my  overcoat  pocket.  Mar-  vene  bent  down  to  re-  turn  it.  Not  till  after-  ward  did  I  realize  what  her  gesture  was  to  cost  me,  for  it  fur-  nished  the  clue  she  sought  to  my  where-  abouts.  From  that  mo-  ment  on,I  was  an  easy  stalk,  defenseless  asa  gazelle  before  a  swift,  springing  lioness.  There  were  half  a  dozen  phone  messages  in  the  box  when  I  regained  my  hotel  that  evening,  each  more  urgent  than  the  last.  The  next  day,  I  learned  that  a  lady  had  hung  about  the  lobby  for  an  hour  awaiting  me.  It  was  unnecessary  to  read  the  note  she  had  left-I  could  visualize  its  con-  tents.  Paralyzed  by  the  sensation  of  a  noose  closing  about  me,  I  re-  fused  to  accept  any  calls,  had  my  meals  sent  in,  and  crept  out  only  at  night.  And  then,  as  if  my  cup  wasn't  already  running  over,  the  letters  began.  Every  post  brought  some  communication  from  Marvene,  whose  preoccupation  with  my  skin  seemed  to  intensi-  fy  by  the  hour.  In  dithyrambs  worthy  of  a  lovesick  schoolgirl,  she  compared  it  to  damask,  to  alabaster,  to  rose  pet-  als;  drunk  on  metaphor,  she  decked  me  with  garlands  of  poesy  that  put  to  shame  the  effusions  of  Julia  Moore,  the  Sweet  Singer  of  [REDACTED].  To  find  oneself  a  love  object  at  my  age-it  was  an  absurd,  a  hateful  posi-  tion,  and  it  called  for  desperate  meas-  ures.  I  might,  of  course,  have  had  her  arraigned  on  charges  before  the  Bar-  bers'  Advisory  Committee,  but  that  would  subject  me  to  personal  em-  barrassment.  'The  only  alternative  in  the  circumstances  was  flight-not  back  to  rural  [REDACTED],  where  she  could  easily  entrap  me,  or  to  any  native  wilderness,  but  to  another  continent.  Accordingly,  I  made  a  plane  reserva-  tionto  [REDACTED]  to  mislead  Marvene  in  the  event  my  phone  was  bugged,  and  secretly  booked  passage  aboard  a  liner  departing  for  Rotterdam  the  next  morning.  Not  a  soul  was  in  sight  when  I  checked  out  at  dawn;  nonetheless,  I  took  the  precaution  of  changing  cabs  en  route  to  the  ship,  hid  below  till  the  whistle  sounded,  and  finally,  as  we  warped  into  the  stream,  ascended  to  the  boat  deck,  where  I  huddled  under  the  davits,  watching  the  dock  recede  and  luxuriating  in  my  freedom.  Suddenly  an  elderly  fellow-passen-  ger  nearby,  who  was  observing  the  de-  parture  through  field  glasses,  emitted  an  exclamation.  &quot;Fighting!&quot;  he  said  excitedly.  &quot;Look  there-on  the  pier!&quot;  I  took  the  glasses  and  adjusted  them.  A  turmoil  of  some  sort  was  indeed  in  progress,  and  as  it  swam  into  focusI  recognized  the  chief  participant-a  sumptuously  formed  lady  with  hennaed  hair,  clutching  a  barber's  satchel  and  struggling  in  the  arms  of  two  long-  shoremen.  Though  I  could  not  hear  what  she  was  calling  to  me,  I  knew  every  syllable;  it  was  something  of  a  private  nature  that  wild  horses  can  never  force  me  to  divulge.  This  much  I  will  say,  however,  and  without  a  particle  of  remorse.  The  poor  thing  brought  it  all  on  herself.  She  just  happened  to  be  working  too  close  to  me,.  "