"THE  PRESBYTERIAN  CAPTIVES  N  our  birthdays  and  at  Christ-  O  mas  in  our  Presbyterian  home  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  in  the  early  part  of  this  century,  my  young  sister  and  I  were  allowed  to  run  all  over  the  house  in  our  nightgowns  early  in  the  morning  and  climb  into  bed  with  anybody  who  wasn't  up.  We  especially  liked  to  find  our  Uncle  Addison  and  Aunt  Em  not  up,  because  we  would  all  four  lie  back  in  the  double  bed  and  try  to  figure  out  how  many  toes  were  under  the  covers.  Then  somebody  would  stick  a  foot  outside  and  we  would  try  to  figure  out  how  many  toes  were  left  under  the  covers,  This  would  be  followed  by  other  feet  being  stuck  out,  and  sometimes  half  feet.  Uncle  Addison  said  the  procedure  not  only  was  a  means  of  teaching  us  arithmetic  but  was  also  fun,  and  we  agreed  with  him  wholeheartedly.  Uncle  Addison  was  professor  of  Greek  at  [REDACTED]  and  Lee,  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and,  along  with  my  three  other  uncles  (who,  like  my  father,  were  Presbyte-  rian  clergymen),  visited  us  frequently.  My  father  and  the  uncles  had  studied  for  the  ministry  at  the  Hampden-Sidney  Seminary  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  Reverend  Mr.  Benjamin  Mosby  Smith,  D.D.,  generally  credited  with  having  saved  the  seminary  from  dissolution  after  the  Civil  War,  was  professor  of  Romance  languages.  He  had  five  daughters  -  Mary,  Frances,  Emily,  Eliza-  beth,  and  Lavinia.  One  after  another,  my  fa-  ther  and  his  brothers  accepted  their  diplomas  on  graduating  and  took  a  daughter  of  the  Ro-  mance-languages  pro-  fessor  to  the  altar.  Al-  though  Uncle  Addison  had  decided  on  an  aca-  demic  career  instead  of  a  pastorate  after  mar-  rying  his  Smith  girl,  he  had  made  up  for  that  by  becoming  the  most  pious  of  the  whole  crowd,  and  he  was  generally  thought  of  as  being  a  clergyman  like  everybody  else.  He  was  descended  from  Pres-  byterian  clergymen,  the  same  as  the  rest.  My  father's  forebears  had  helped  found  the  Presbyterian  seminary  at  Princeton,  New  Jersey.  All  in  all,  that  family  was  about  as  Presbyterian  as  a  family  could  be,  butthey  prided  themselves  on  being  liberal  Presbyterians.  At  a  time  when  I  was  still  young  enough  to  be  enjoying  the  early-morn-  ing  game  of  getting  into  bed  with  peo-  ple,  and  old  enough  to  have  started  reading,  precociously,  the  most  accessi-  ble  book  in  the  house,  I  came  across  a  number  of  passages  in  the  Old  Testa-  ment  proving  beyond  any  doubt  that  certain  grown  Biblical  characters  even  when  there  was  no  special  occa-  sion  for  it-had  been  allowed,  or  had  taken,  much  the  same  liberties  my  sis-  ter  and  I  had  been  enjoying  only  on  birthdays  and  at  Christmas.  I  marked  the  places  in  my  Bible  with  slips  of  paper  and  felt  well  prepared  to  make  a  showing  at  the  next  Sunday-afternoon  family  gathering,  when  everybody  was  accustomed  to  congregate  in  the  living  room  after  the  midday  dinner  and  read  aloud  from  the  Bible  and  other  books  and  discuss  them.  When  Sunday  after-      noon  came  and  everybody  was  seated,  I  had  my  data  ready  and  produced  it,  chapter  and  verse,  as  an  argument  in  favor  of  an  extension  of  our  privileges  to  include  other  days  besides  birthdays  and  Christmas.  My  speech,  interspersed  with  threeor  four  quotations,  was  fol-  lowed  by  a  short  silence.  But,  incredible  as  it  may  seem  to  those  unacquainted  with  the  paradoxes  of  Presbyterianism,  no  lightning  struck,  no  thunder  rolled.  Instead,  there  occurred  what  my  moth-  er  used  to  call  &quot;a  paroxysm  of  laugh-  ter.&quot;  When  it  was  over,  my  father  complimented  me  on  the  diligence  of  my  research,  and  my  mother  said  that,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  she  didn't  see  why  we  shouldn't  be  allowed  to  play  our  early-morning  game  every  Saturday  from  then  on.  Somebody  soon  began  to  read  aloud,  and  the  Sunday  afternoon  went  along  as  usual.  The  point,  Ithink,  was  that  every-  thing  in  the  Bible,  to  those  Presbyterian  minds,  was  above  all  earthly  contami-  nations.  The  words  in  it  were  holy  and  unchallengeable,  and  everything  in  it  possessed  a  divine  significance.  In  life,  anything  remotely  suggestive  of  the  procreative  process  was  unmentionable.  But  in  the  Bible  anything  went.  And  if  the  passages  were  studied  closely  enough,  the  divine  sig-  nificance  would  even-  tually  be  understoodby  discerning  Presbyteri-  ans.  At  those  Sunday-  afternoon  gatherings,  if  a  man  in  the  Bible  crept  into  a  tent  at  dawn  and  lay  with  a  woman,  he  crept  into  a  tent  at  dawn  and  lay  with  a  woman,  and  whoever  happened  to  be  reading  the  passage  would  come  right  out  with  it.  They  felt  about  what  was  in  the  Bible  the  way  certain  worshippers  of  Joyce  feel  these  days  about  what  is  in  &quot;Ulys-  ses&quot;  or  &quot;Finnegans  Wake.&quot;  To  euphemize  or  expurgate  anything  in  the  Bible  would  have  been  considered  sacrile-  gious.  All  of  them  knew  it  backward  and  for-  ward,  and  my  father  and  the  uncles  knew  it  in  Greek  and  Hebrew  as  well  as  in  English.  They  revered  what  was  in  it  both  as  literature  and  as  gospel.  It  was  as  familiar  to  them  as  " b"46  an  old  shoe.  In  the  middle  of  a  dis-  cussion  about  the  divine  significance  of  some  Biblical  passage  or  other,  I  saw  my  father  more  than  once  slap  the  limp-backed  volume  in  his  hand  for  emphasis  and  toss  it  halfway  across  the  living  room  to  one  of  my  uncles  and  invite  him  to  look  and  see  for  himself.  My  Uncle  Parke  Flournoy,  who  had  a  church  in  Bethesda,  [REDACTED],  wore  a  beautiful  white  clipped  beard,  and  had  an  honorary  degree  from  Oxford,  al-  ways  carried  a  New  Testament  in  his  left  hip  pocket  and  an  Old  Testament  in  his  right  hip  pocket,  and  he  was  quick  on  the  draw,  To  all  these  men,  the  Bible  wasn't  a  symbol.  It  was  for  use.  With  the  exception  of  God,  Jesus,  the  Devil,  and  the  angels,  the  people  who  walked  and  talked  in  it  were  just  people-God's  chosen  people,  but  people  all  the  same.  The  prophets  weren't  holy,  and  neither  were  the  apostles.  Every-  body,  for  example,  called  the  apostles  by  their  first  names.  They  had  never  been  awarded  sainthood  by  the  Presbyterians.  &quot;Now,  isn't  that  exactly  like  Paul!&quot;  my  mother  would  exclaim  when  some-  body  happened  to  read  aloud  one  of  that  apostle's  ambiguous  circumlocutions.     APRIL  12,  1969  My  sister  and  I  were  reconciled  to  the  Sunday-afternoon  reading  aloud,  and  often  enjoyed  it.  There  was  not  a  wide  variety  of  activity  for  us  to  choose  from  on  Sundays.  We  could  go  out  and  walk,  but  playing  outdoor  games  was  not  allowed.  We  weren't  permitted  to  read  the  funny  papers  until  Monday.  Uncle  Addison  was  also  flatly  against  anybody's  whistling  on  Sundays,  and  al-  though  my  father  hadn't  thought  of  that  one  way  or  another  until  Uncle  Addison  brought  it  up,  he  supported  Uncle  Addison,  and  issued  an  anti-  whistling  ban.  One  indoor  game  we  could  play,  or  rather  join  in,  was  Twenty  Questions,  the  questions  being  confined  to  miner-  als,  vegetables,  or  ani-  mals  in  the  Bible.  It  was  often  fun,  but  not  as  much  fun  as  charades-  played  within  the  same  confines,  of  course.  Charades  wasn't  played  much,  though,  because  everybody  liked  to  sit  around  quietly  in  the  living  room  after  the  sumptuous  dinner,  rather  than  put  on  makeshift  costumes  and  act  out  the  incident,  for  example,  of  Balaam  and  the  ass,  or  Rebecca  at  the  well.  There  were  usually  bowls  of  [REDACTED]  oranges  and  pecans  or  hickory  nuts,  and  a  fire  going  in  the  open  fireplace,  and  somebody  would  read  aloud,  and  not  always  from  the  Bible.  Uncle  Addison,  for  example,  would  sometimes  read  the  Odyssey  or  the  [REDACTED],  holding  an  original  Greek  text  in  his  hand  and  rapping  out  a  free  English  translation  of  his  own.  His  way  of  telling  those  stories  made  Ho-  mer  a  favorite  of  mine  long  before  I  read  him.  Uncle  Addison  impro-  vised  his  own  translation  because  he  had  a  preju-  dice  against  the  one  by  Pope.  He  didn't  like  the  sound  of  that  poet's  name.  My  mother,  who  had  studied  elocution  when  she  was  a  young  lady,  liked  to  read  Dick-  ens  and  Thackeray  and  Sir  Walter  Scott.  Uncle  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  Parke  was  devoted  to  Gibbon's  &quot;De-  cline  and  Fallof  the  Roman  Empire,&quot;  in  which,  I  discovered,  some  of  the  bat-  tles  were  as  lively  as  anybody  could  wish.  My  father  was  addicted  to  Jules  Verne  and  Mark  Twain.  So  were  my  sister  and  I.  Lying  there  on  the  floor  in  front  of  the  open  fire,  eating  oranges  and  cracking  nuts,  going  with  Captain  Nemo  to  his  mysterious  island  or  idling  down  the  [REDACTED]  with  Huckleberry  Finn  and  Jim,  and  the  Duke  and  the  Dauphin,  we  were  in  a  state  close  to  bliss.  But  there  was  one  book  that  was  read  aloud  every  now  and  then  on  Sundays  that  I  found  painfully  unsatis-  factory  and  curiously  disturbing.  It  was  a  small  volume  bound  in  brown  leather,  with  gilded  edges,  called  &quot;The  Cap-  tives  of  Abb's  [REDACTED].&quot;  Although  the  binding  was  in  good  shape,  and  al-  though,  in  case  it  got  damaged,  there  were  plenty  more  copies  of  it  where  it  had  come  from  (which  was  the  Presby-  terian  Board  of  Publication  and  Sab-  bath-School  Work  in  [REDACTED]),  it  was  handled  by  those  who  read  it  aloud  as  if  it  were  a  relic.  It  was  never  read  aloud  by  anybody  but  my  mother  or  one  of  her  sisters.  Mary  Moore,  its  her-  oine,  was  the  great-grandmother  of  the  five  Smith  sisters  who  had  married  my  father  and  the  uncles.  The  book  had  been  read  aloud  to  the  Smith  sisters  when  they  were  little,  they  had  grown  up  with  Mary  Moore  as  their  model,  and  they  were  determined  that  every-  body  around  them  should  bear  Mary  Moore  constantly  in  mind.  Her  life  and  her  accomplishments  wereawe-  inspiring.  She  would  have  been  a  saint  if  the  Presbyterians  had  allowed  saints.  Genealogists,  the  sisters  said,  credited  her  with  being  the  progenitrix  of  more  Presbyterian  clergymen  and  clergy-  men's  wives  than  any  other  woman  in  history,  and,  besides,  she  had  been  cap-  tured  by  Indians  when  she  was  a  girl  of  ten.  After  she  got  away  from  them,  she  had  married,  in  1798,  a  Presby-  terian  clergyman  and  with  him  pro-  duced  five  Presbyterian  clergymen,  one  Presbyterian  deacon,  one  Presbyterian  clergyman's  wife,  and  one  Presbyterian  obstetrician,  who  was  able  to  assist  in  activating  secondary  and  tertiary  waves  of  her  descendants.  An  overpowering  majority  of  these  became  Presbyterian  clergymen  or  married  them.  The  breathtaking  manner  in  which  the  cler-  gyman-avalanche  started  by  Mary  Moore  had  gone  plunging  down  the  years,  slowing  up  at  times  only  to  surge  forward  again  with  cataclysmic  rever-  berations  (when,  for  example,  one  of  her  granddaughters  married  the  Rev-    erend  Dr.  Smith),  would  have  been  called  miraculous  by  anybody  but  Pres-  byterians.  They  didn't  believe  in  any  miracles  more  recent  than  those  de-  scribed  in  the  New  Testament.  To  the  Smith  girls,  the  book  about  their  great-grandmother,  written  by  her  eldest  son,  was  close  to  being  a  second  Bible,  and  it  was  a  book  in  which  they  felt  themselves  personally  involved.  But  since  it  hadn't  officially  achieved  divinity,  hadn't  acquired  the  indestructibility  of  the  Bible,  they  treat-  ed  it  protectively,  as  ifit  were  fragile.  They  looked  for,  and  found,  signifi-  cances  in  it  that  would  have  been  divine  if  the  book  itself  had  achieved  divinity.  Yet  they  didn't  speak  of  the  characters  in  it  in  the  easygoing,  familiar  way  in  which  they  discussed  the  characters  in  the  Bible;  they  spoke  of  them,  it  seemed,  more  with  respect  and  fear  than  with  love  and  understanding.  The  tone  of  their  voices,  when  they  read  that  book  aloud,  seemed  altered.  Everybody  read  the  Bible  in  an  emotional  tone  of  voice  which,  even  in  the  tiresome  passages,  had  warmth  and  rhythm.  I  suspect  that  the  tone  of  voice  in  which  &quot;The  Cap-  tives  of  Abb's  [REDACTED]&quot;  was  read  by  the  Smith  girls  held  telltale  ingredients  of  possessiveness  and  sentimentality.  When  &quot;The  Captives  of  Abb's  Val-  ley&quot;  was  being  read  aloud,  Ipaid  close  attention  to  certain  portions  of  it.  These  were  mostly  gruesome.  The  second  or  third  time  I  was  introduced  to  it,  when  I  was  four,  I  had  sat  in  somebody's  lap,  I've  been  told,  and  called  out  hopefully,  as  my  older  brothers  and  cousins  had  done  when  they  were  that  age,  such  requests  as  &quot;Read  about  when  they  scalped  great-great-great-grandfather&quot;  or  &quot;Read  about  when  they  burned  great-great-great-grandmother  at  the  stake  and  Mary  Moore  found  the  bones  and  buried  them,&quot;  but  I  was  quickly  made  aware  that  one  usually  had  to  take  the  whole  of  &quot;The  Captives  of  Abb's  [REDACTED]&quot;  at  one  gulp  or  not  at  all-that  skipping  around  in  it  wasn't  done.  Consequently,  I  sensed  at  a  very  early  age  that  there  was  a  fundamental  difference  between  that  book  and  the  Bible.  Everybody  skipped  around  to  his  heart's  content  in  the  Bible.  It  was  the  accepted  method  of  enjoying  that  book.  You  were  encouraged  to  ask  for  your  favorite  passages  andyou  could  get  them,  including  many  gruesome  ones,  such  as  Cain's  murder  of  his  brother,  the  wiping  out  of  everybody  on  earth  except  Noah  and  his  family  in  the  Flood,  the  weird  fate  of  Lot's  wife,  and  a  hundred  others.  By  the  time  I  was  edging  up  to  pu-  berty,  I  had  learned  to  close  my  ears  a  good  part  of  the  time  when  &quot;The  Cap-  tives  of  Abb's  [REDACTED]&quot;  was  being  read.  Concentrating  on  something  else,  I  would  be  aware  onlyof  a  droning  noise.  I  could  tell,  though,  when  a  worthwhile  passage  or  an  illustration  was  coming  up.  There  were  four  illus-  trations  in  the  book-explicit  line  draw-  ings  by  an  anonymous  artist.  First  came  the  frontispiece,  which  showed  the  Moore  home  in  Abb's  [REDACTED],  Vir-  ginia.  It  was  a  solitary  log  cabin  with  a  rail  fence  around  it  and  two  cows  graz-  ing  outside  the  fence.  The  second  drawing  showed  a  boy  of  about  Tom  Sawyer's  age.  He  was  dressed  in  striped  pants  and  a  white  shirt,  he  was  kneel-  ing  under  a  tree  in  a  wilderness,  and  he  was  praying.  This  boy,  as  I  had  been  told  again  and  again,  was  James  Moore,  Jr.,  my  great-great-great-uncle  on  my  mother's  side,  who  had  been  captured  by  the  Indians  two  years  be-  fore  they  got  his  sister,  Mary  Moore.  The  third  drawing  showed  a  typical  Indian  wigwam.  The  fourth  drawing  showed  Mary  Moore  as  a  girl  of  ten,  in  a  long,  white  frilly  dress  obviously  unsuitable  for  camping  out.  She  is  sitting  under  a  tree  in  the  same  wilderness  her  brother  had  prayed  in  and  is  reading  the  New  " b"48  Testament  aloud  to  an  Indian  chief.  In  the  foreground  an  Indian  boy  is  play-  ing  with  a  dog-or,  rather,  has  just  stopped  playing  with  a  dog.  He  has  turned  his  face  toward  Mary  Moore  and  is  giving  her  his  full  attention.  The  boy  doesn't  seem  to  have  many  clothes  on.  However,  his  figure  is  in  deep  shadow  and  it  is  hard  to  make  sure.  The  Indian  chief,  though,  is  sitting  in  the  sun,  along  with  Mary  Moore.  He  is  wearing  feathers  on  his  head,  a  knife  in  a  scabbard  on  his  hip,  a  cloak  made  out  of  the  skin  of  a  wild  animal,  and  long  buckskin  trousers  and  leggings,  and  is  smoking  an  Indian  pipe.  He  is  comfortably  sprawled  out  on  the  ground  at  Mary  Moore's  feet,  one  of  which  is  half  showing  under  the  hem  of  her  skirt.  His  chin  is  in  one  of  his  hands,  and  he  is  looking  at  Mary  Moore  and  listening  to  her  as  she  reads  aloud  from  the  New  Testament.  Before  the  reading  aloud  of  &quot;The  Captives  of  Abb's  [REDACTED]&quot;  commenced,  I  would  stand  and  examine  the  frontis-  piece  as  long  as  possible.  Then,  when-  ever  I  felt  another  illustration  coming  up,  I  would  saunter  over  close  to  who-  ever  was  reading  and  stare  at  the  illustration  until  the  chairwoman  for  that  Sunday  said,  &quot;Enough  is  enough,  boy!&quot;  After  the  frontispiece,  there  were  passages  I  didn't  listen  to,  but  when  the  second  picture  started  com-  ing  up-the  one  showing  the  praying  boy-I  knew  there  would  then  be  some  fairly  lively,  though  dispiriting,  stuff  pertaining  to  his  capture  and  his  life  among  the  savages,  such  as  it  was.  When  the  illustration  actually  arrived,  it  meant  that  spurt  was  over.  He  prayed  for  help  and  got  it  from  God  in  a  roundabout  and  humdrum  fashion.  After  that,  I  could  safely  close  my  ears  until  I  felt  the  picture  of  the  typi-  cal  Indian  wigwam  coming  up.  That  marked  the  beginning  of  what  I  con-  sidered  the  best  chapter-Chapter  V-  in  which  Mary  Moore  is  captured  after  a  decisive  massacre  in  which  almost  the  whole  Moore  family  is  wiped  out.  The  final  picture-the  one  of  Mary  Moore  reading  the  New  Testament  to  the  Indian  chief  and  the  Indian  boy-  represented  the  end  of  &quot;The  Captives  of  Abb's  [REDACTED]&quot;  as  far  asI  was  con-  cerned,  although  the  book  continued  for  six  chapters  after  that.  As  books  went,  it  wasn't  long-about  thirty  thousand  words,  or  two  hours  of  read-  ing  aloud,  with  time  off  fortea  and  cinnamon  toast  after  Chapter  V.  HE  copy  of  the  book  that  used  to  be  read  aloud  in  my  home  long  ago  came  into  my  possession  recently, and  asI  held  the  old  brown  volume,  with  its  gilded  edges,  in  my  hands,  dim  reverberations  of  feeling  came  back  to  me-the  boy,  James,  Jr.,  a  dull  disap-  pointment;Black  Wolf,  the  Indian  chief,  a  pitiful,  clownish  figure  who  later  turns  into  a  monster;  horrid  im-  ages  of  the  massacre  in  Chapter  V,  somehow  humiliating  to  me  and  at  the  same  time  exciting.  There  was  an  unidentifiablesensation,  associated  with  revenge,  that  had  to  do  with  the  awful  end  of  my  great-great-great-  grandmother,  and  harrowing  emotions  linked  to  the  nightmarish  fate  of  my  great-great-great-grandfather,  which  seemed  to  be  connected  with  a  fallen  idol  who  had  been  betrayed  before  his  fall.  I  hastily  gave  up  any  further  at-  tempt  to  recapture  the  gist  of  my  earlier  attitudes  toward  the  book  and  went  ahead  and  read  it-silently  and  to  my-  self.  Mary  Moore's  eldest  son,  who  wrote  the  book,  was  the  Reverend  James     -Greo  Kuzma  Moore  Brown,  D.D.,  an  active  preach,  er  during  the  first  half  of  the  last  cen-  tury.  He  wrote  the  book  thirty  years  after  his  mother's  death  and  nearly  seventy  years  after  her  capture  by  the  Indians.  It  was  first  published  in  1854.  &quot;My  mother  nevergave  a  detailed  narrative  to  any  person,&quot;  wrote  Dr.  Brown  in  his  introduction,  &quot;but  on  the  contrary  showed  a  disinclination  to  converse  on  the  subject.  Two  attempts  were  made  to  secure  such  a  relation  from  her.  The  first  was  by  my  father  somemonths  after  their  marriage.  The  effort  soon  brought  on  her  such  a  par-  oxysm  of  grief  that  it  was  abandoned;  and  never  again  attempted  by  him.  The  other  was  made  by  her  oldest  son  dur-  ing  her  last  illness;  and  he  soon  saw  that  it  was  exciting  her  feelings  so  much  that  he  dropped  the  subject.&quot;  He  was  determined,  though,  to  get  the  story  and  set  it  down  in  his  own  words  for  Presbyterian  posterity.  He  gathered  material  for  it  as  he  went  along  and  he  set  aside  a  time  in  his  old  age  for  its  composition.  He  was  just  starting  out  as  a  Presbyterian  preacher  when  his  mother  died,  in  1824,  and  was  still  studying  for  his  degree  of  Doctor  of  Divinity.  In  addition  to  the  customary  Latin,  Greek,  and  Hebrew,  he  had  learned  several  Indian  lan-  " b"   guages.  Later  on,  when  he  was  doing  evangelical  work  among  the  Indians,  he  was  able  to  interview  some  of  the  members  of  the  Shawnee  tribe  that  had  turned  his  mother  loose,  including  the  chief  she  used  to  read  the  New  Testa-  ment  aloud  to.  He  was  also  able,  of  course,  to  talk  to  James,  Jr.,  and  to  a  young  woman  named  Martha  Evans,  who  happened  to  be  staying  with  the    Moores  in  Abb's  [REDACTED]  when  Mary  Moore  was  captured,  and  who  was  taken  away  by  the  same  Indians  at  the  same  time.  CAPTAIN  James  Moor\xc2\xae  (my  great-  great-great-grandfather)  had  set-  tled  in  Abb's  [REDACTED]  with  his  family  before  the  Revolutionary  War.  He  re-  turned  to  his  lands  after  the  war  (in  which  he  served  in  a  cavalry  detach-  ment),  and  by  1784,  when  his  son,  James,  Jr.,  was  captured  byBlack  Wolf,  he  had  nine  children.  James,  Jr.,  had  been  sent  that  day  to  some  pas-  tures,  a  good  distance  from  his  father's  home,  to  pick  up  from  the  herd  of  horses  a  particular  horse  his  father  wanted,  and  it  was  there  that  Black  Wolf  and  two  other  Indians  found  him  " b"50  and  took  him  captive.  Although  Black  Wolf  is  described  by  Dr.  Moore  as  a  man  &quot;possessing  a  large  share  of  strength,  activity  and  courage;  and  was  one  of  the  most  stern  and  vin-  dictive  warriors  of  the  Shawnee  tribes,&quot;  he  seemed,  in  1784,  to  be  more  like  an  Indian  created  by  Mark  Twain  than  by  James  Fenimore  Cooper.  James,  Jr.,  had  haltered  the  horse  he  was  after  just  as  Black  Wolf  and  the  two  other  Indians  grabbed  him,  but  &quot;he  contrived  to  let  it  escape  because  he  knew  how  much  it  was  valued  by  his  father.&quot;  After  that,  Black  Wolf  tried  to  make  James,  Jr.  (who  was  then  fourteen  years  old),  capture  that  horse  or  some  other  horse  for  his  use,  but  James,  Jr.,  &quot;managed  to  make  this  assignment  seeman  impossible  one&quot;  and  eventually  Black  Wolf  and  his  two  companions  lugubriously  gave  up  the  idea  and  started  off  for  the  Shaw-  nee  towns  with  their  single  captive,  Black  Wolf  &quot;uttering  one  loud  war  hoop  from  time  to  time  to  indicate  that  he  had  one  captive.&quot;  Without  food  of  any  kind,  the  forlorn  foursome  spent  the  first  night  in  a  laurel  thicket  that  protected  them  partially  from  the  rain.  The  next  day,  Black  Wolf  came  to  a  spot  where  he  had  buried  an  iron  oven  and,  digging  it  up,  indicated  that  he  wished  James,  Jr.,  to  carry  it.  James,  Jr.,  picked  it  up,  found  it  was  heavy,  and  indicated  he  wouldn't  carry  it.  Then  Black  Wolf  put  down  the  pack  he  was  carrying  and  indicated  that  James,  Jr.,  should  carry  that  while  he  carried  the  oven,  but  James,  Jr.,  dis-     (e)    covering  the  pack  to  be  heavier  than  the  oven,  finally  picked  up  the  oven  and  found  he  could  carry  it  fairly  comfortably  over  his  head,  like  a  hat.  So  they  marched  on.  When  Black  Wolf  brought  his  captive  to  the  town  of  his  own  tribe  (of  which  he  was  then  what  was  called  an  inferior  chief),  he  was  mercilessly  bawled  out  by  the  superior  chief  in  James'  presence  and  warned  about  making  further  depredations  against  the  palefaces  in  Abb's  [REDACTED]  or  elsewhere.  That  evening,  Black  Wolf  got  drunk,  and  the  next  day  he  sold  James,  Jr.,  &quot;for  an  old  horse.&quot;  The  purchaser  was  an  old  squaw,  who  later  made  a  profit  by  selling  James  to  a  French  trader  named  Bateeste  Ariome,  &quot;who  saw  in  him  a  striking  resemblance  to  a  son  who  had  died  a  few  months  before.&quot;  Ariome  took  James  to  his  home  in  [REDACTED],  not  far  from  [REDACTED],  and  &quot;treated  him  as  a  son.&quot;  James  got  word  to  his  father  that  he  was  in  good  hands  and  made  no  attempt  to  return  to  Abb's  [REDACTED]  for  a  number  of  years.  Black  Wolf,  however,  did  return  to  Abb's  [REDACTED]-in  1786-and  in  strength.  He  headed  a  band  of  twenty-  odd  Indians,  all  armed  with  rifles.  In  the  two  years  since  the  capture  of  James,  Jr.,  he  seemed  to  have  under-  gone  a  radical  change  in  character.  The  policy  of  his  superior  chief  also  had  changed.  According  to  historians  of  the  period,  the  whites  in  that  part  of  Vir-  ginia  had  so  persecuted  the  Shawnees  that  this  formerly  gentle  tribe  had  be-  come  as  warlike  as  the  Cherokees.  Dr.  Moore  begins  his  narrative  of  APRIL  12,  1969  the  massacre,  and  the  cap-  ture  of  Mary  Moore,  as  follows:  Daylight  dawned  on  a  hap-  py  family  in  Abb's  [REDACTED]  on  the  morning  of  the  14th  of  July,  1786.  They  rose  early,  and  engaged  in  their  respec-  tive  employments.  It  was  the  busy  joyous  season  of  har-  vest.  Two  men  were  reaping  wheat  a  few  hundred  yards  from  the  house.  Captain  Moore  was  giving  salt  to  some  young  horses  not  far  off.  Two  of  the  children  had  gone  for  water  to  the  place  from  which  the  supply  was  usually  obtained,  and  which  was  somewhat  in  the  direc-  tion  of  the  spot  where  their  father  was.  Another  had  gone  to  the  fence  which  en-  closed  the  yard  to  give  the  signal  to  Captain  Moore  and  the  reapers  to  come  to  breakfast.  In  this  juncture,  the  fearful  war  whoop  was  heard,  and  the  savages  were  seen  rushing  down  two  ridges  of  the  mountain,  one  party  to  the  saltingblocks,  where  Captain  Moore  was,  and  the  other  to  the  house.  At  the  first  alarm,  Mary  Moore,  who  was  calling  to  her  father  and  the  reapers,  ran  into  the  house,  in  which  were  her  mother,  Margaret,  John  and  Jane;  and  Martha  Evans,  a  young  woman  from  Walker's  Creek,  in  what  is  now  Giles  County,  who  happened  to  be  at  Captain  Moore's  at  this  time.  The  house,  like  almost  all  the  frontier  houses  of  that  period,  was  constructed  with  a  view  to  defense  against  the  Indians,  and  was  what  was  called  a  blockhouse  cabin.  Amongst  other  things,  the  doors  were  made  of  plank  too  thick  to  be  penetrated  by  a  rifle  ball,  and  were  furnished  with  strong  fastenings  in  the  inside;  and  the  windows  were  high  and  small,  and  could  be  secured  instantly.  In  the  confusion  of  the  moment,  Mrs.  Moore  and  Martha  Evans  shut  the  doors  and  secured  the  windows,  without  it  once  occurring  to  them  thatthey  were  shutting  out  Cap-  tain  Moore  and  the  other  children.  As  soon  as  he  heard  the  yell  of  the  savages,  Captain  Moore  started  to  the  house  with  his  utmost  speed,  and  could  have  got  in,  if  the  door  had  been  open;  but  seeing  it  closed,  he  ran  past  the  end  of  the  house  and  halted  for  a  moment  on  the  yard  fence.  This  halt  was  fatal  to  him,  for  he  was  pierced  with  seven  balls.  Springing  from  the  fence  he  ran  about  forty  paces  and  fell.  He  was  im-  mediately  tomahawked,  and  his  scalp  torn  off....  William  and  Rebecca,  who  had  gone  for  water,  were  overtaken  before  they  reached  the  house  and  killed,  and  another  son,  Alexander,  was  killed  near-  er  the  house.  Inside  the  barred  and  locked  house  were  Mrs.  Moore,  an  infant  daughter,  an  older  one  named  Jane,  Mary  Moore,  Martha  Evans,  and  the  eldest  of  the  Moore  children,  a  boy  named  John,  who  was  sickly.  Black  Wolf  and  his  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  bandwere  chopping  at  the  front  door  with  tomahawks  and  with  axes  they  had  found  in  a  toolhouse  outside.  Mary  Moore  was  holding  the  baby,  who  was  crying  because  she  had  a  flesh  wound  from  a  bullet  that  had  come  through  one  ofthe  windows  and  had  ricocheted.  Martha  Evans  had  taken  a  plank  from  the  floor  and  told  Mary  to  leave  the  in-  fant  and  hide  inside  with  her.  Mary  re-  fused  to  leave  the  baby  and  so  Martha  hid  alone.  Then,  as  Dr.  Moore  puts  it,  &quot;Mrs.  Moore  kneeled  with  her  chil-  dren,  and  having  commended  all  to  God,  rose  and  removed  the  bars  from  the  door;  and  herself  and  the  rest  of  her  children  became  captive,  along  with  Martha  Evans,  whose  hiding  place  the  Indians  discovered.&quot;  (One  of  the  Moore  sons,  named  Joseph,  escaped  entirely,  because  he  was  visiting  rela-  tives  in  [REDACTED].)  On  the  way  back  to  their  town  on  the  other  side  of  the  mountain  and  through  the  wilderness,  the  Indians  killed  and  scalped  the  ailing  John  be-  cause  he  couldn't  keep  up  with  them,  and  the  baby  was  brained  against  a  tree  trunk  and  the  body  thrown  away.  Later  on,  at  the  Shawnee  town,  Mrs.  Moore,  Mary,  Jane,  and  Martha  Evans  were  not  mistreated  but  were  befriend-  edby  squaws,  but  still  later  on  a  band  of  Cherokees,  who  had  been  defeated  by  a  white  detachment,  tortured  Mrs.  Moore  and  Jane  and  burned  them  at  the  stake.  Mary  Moore  and  Martha  Evans  escaped  the  same  fate  because  some  squaws  hid  them  in  the  forest  until  the  Cherokees  had  left.  That  night,  Mary  crept  away  and  buried  the  bones  of  Mrs.  Moore  and  Jane.  Mary  and  Martha  Evans  were  eventually  sold  for  whiskey  to  some  Tories  who  had  fled  to  [REDACTED]  after  the  Revolutionary  War.  In  a  few  years,  they  found  their  way  back  to  [REDACTED],  accompanied  by  James,  Jr.,  and  by  a  brother  of  Martha  Evans  who  had  come  to  take  her  back  home.  CONVERSATIONS  in  our  family  about  &quot;'The  Captives  of  Abb's  [REDACTED]&quot;  were  frequent  and  varied.  Like  the  stark  ancestral  tales  that  are  handed  down,  one  way  or  another,  in  many  American  families,  the  book  had,  I  think,  a  powerful,  if  sometimes  subtle,  influence  on  the  personalities  of  all  those  descended  from  Mary  Moore  or  closely  connected  with  her  descendants.  To  my  motherand  my  aunts,  at  least,  it  served  as  an  especially  strong  and  pal-  pable  link  with  the  early  frontier,  with  the  grimness  of  the  constricted  culture  the  Presbyterian  immigrants  from  Scot-  land  and  [REDACTED]  Ireland  had  begun  to  create  in  the  land  to  which  they  had  come,  seeking  freedom.  The  legacy  left  by  Mary  Moore  was  bountiful,  and  in  addition  to  many  other  things  it  in-  cluded  a  certain  joylessness  that  was  often  suppressed  but  never  entirely  eradicated  in  the  characters  of  the  Pres-  byterians  I  grew  up  under.  But  after  I  had  laid  down  the  book  recently,  I  remembered  with  a  sense  of  glorious  release  a  conversation  about  &quot;''The  Captives  of  Abb's  [REDACTED]&quot;  that  occurred  in  my  mother's  sewing  room  one  afternoon  when  I  was  about  thir-  teen.  I  was  in  bed  in  the  next  room  with  the  grippe  and  was  enjoying  my-  self,  as  sick  Presbyterians  always  did  in  that  house.  A  portable,  cylindrical  oil  stove  had  been  lighted  to  make  the  room  warmer,  and  I  watched  its  gold-  en  reflection  on  the  ceiling  as  I  sipped  a  toddy  made  of  bourbon  whiskey,  sugar,  lemon  peel,  and  boiling  water,  which  was  my  mother's  standard  method  of  counterattacking  anything  involving  an  inflammation  of  the  upper  respiratory  tract.  In  the  sewing  room,  my  mother,  our  Scottish  housekeeper,  Miss  Anna-  belle  (who  had  become  a  member  of  the  family  before  I  was  born),  and  Alvernia,  a  seamstress,  were  sewing  and  talking.  I  had  known  Alvernia  for  several  years  and,  like  everybody  else,  took  pleasure  in  hearing  what  she  had  to  say,  whatever  the  subject.  Four  or  five  times  a  year,  when  my  mother  was  feeling  fidgety  and  out  of  sorts-overburdened,  perhaps,  by  her  sense  of  responsibility  toward  all  grow-  ing  and  grown  Presbyterians-she  would  say,  &quot;Miss  [REDACTED],  aren't  there  some  things  for  Alvernia  toat-  tend  to?I  feel  like  it  would  do  me  51  good  to  hear  Alvernia  talk.&quot;  Miss  An-  nabelle  would  happily  gather  up  a  pile  of  stuff  that  needed  mending,  Mother  would  get  out  patterns  for  a  dress  for  herself  or  my  sister  or  Miss  [REDACTED],  and  Alvernia  would  be  sent  for.  She  was  the  wife  of  a  Presbyterian  pastor  who  sometimes  came  and  chopped  wood  for  us  on  weekdays.  Alvernia's  ancestors  had  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  from  Africa  be-  fore  my  mother's  had  come  over  from  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  Ireland.  She  was  about  Mother's  age,  and  was  illiter-  ate,  intelligent,  reckless,  and  proud.  Her  comments  on  current  events  and  life  in  general  were  always  greeted,  at  their  conclusion,  with  such  exclamations  as  &quot;Why,  Alvernia!,&quot;  &quot;Alvernia,  you  are  the  limit!,&quot;  or  simply&quot;ZAluermia!&quot;  A  few  years  before,  Mother  had  read  something  aloud  to  Alvernia  to  while  away  the  time  when  Alvernia  was  sewing,  and  Alvernia  had  said  she  sure  did  appreciate  hearing  what  was  in  books.  When  she  came  to  sew,  she  al-  ways  asked  Mother  to  read  something.  Mother  liked  doing  it  and  also  liked  hearing  what  Alvernia  had  to  say  after-  ward.  On  this  particular  afternoon,  my  mother  chose  to  read  Chapter  V  to  Alvernia,  after  having  explained  to  Alvernia  who  Mary  Moore  was  and  what  her  life  had  been  like  after  she  got  away  from  the  Indians.  When  she  finished,  Alvernia  sat  sewing  for  a  while,  and  then  began  to  speak.  &quot;They  shut  the  door  on  that  Cap-  tain  man,  they  sure  did,&quot;  she  said.  She  always  talked  with  deliberation,  allowing  long  gaps  between  one  state-  ment  and  the  next,  and  it  was  the  custom  not  to  interrupt  her  until  a  col-     " b"52  lection  of  her  statements  at  last  brought  on  the  chorus  of  exclamations.  Miss  [REDACTED]  and  my  mother  went  on  sewing  and  listened.  &quot;Here  he  is  out  there  in  the  yard  and  there  the  women  is  in  thehouse.  The  guns  to  fight  the  Indians  with  is  in  the  house.  Thing  to  do  when  the  Indians  come  hollerin'  out  of  the  woods  is  shut  up  everythin'  but  one  door,  so  the  man  can  get  in  and  fight  them  Indians  off.  That  way,  the  women  won't  get  cap-  tured.  But  that  ain't  the  way  they  done  it.  His  own  wife,  she  shuts  that  man  out  so  he  can't  get  in  and  save  them  from  being  captured.  Seems  like  in  the  back  of  her  head  that  poor  woman  warn't  against  having  that  man  done  for  and  warn't  against  being  captured.  Else  why  she  shut  him  out  when  she  know  he  right  there  in  the  yard?  Being  scared  stiffer'n  a  rod  like  she  was,  I  understand  how  she  might  start  fasten-  ing  up  everythin'  quick  when  the  In-  dians  come  hollerin',  but  I  can't  see     her  finishin'  up  all  the  windows  and  all  the  doors  'thout  realizin'  what  she  doin'.  It's  like  when  you  start  doin'  somethin'  good  and  the  bad  gets  in  and  the  bad  carries  you  right  along  and  you  can't  stop  and  youend  up  with  nothin'  but  the  bad.  &quot;Poor  woman!  And  death  and  de-  struction  come  right  along  after!  Her  little  baby  brained  and  her  sick  oldest  boy  scalped  and  then  the  wrong  In-  dians  come  and  take  her  from  the  right  Indians  and  burn  her  and  her  daughter  at  the  stake  after  nearly  killing  them  with  the  Lord  only  knows  what  pain  from  the  torturing.  It's  a  mean,  awful  happenin',  any  way  you  choose  to  look  at  it.&quot;  &quot;She  was  in  a  panic,  Alvernia,&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;She  didn't  know  what  she  was  doing.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  she  didn't,  honey.  Half  the  time  ain't  nobody  know  what  they's  doin'.  Now,  that  little  girl,  that  Mary  Moore,  she  sure  some  little  girl! Buryin'  them  bones  instead  of  just  bustin'  out  bawlin'  and  hidin'  herself  somewhere.  She  a  most  determined  little  girl,  that  little  girl-most  espe-  cially  determined.  Savages  ain'tto  be  trifled  with  and  she  sure  took  her  life  in  her  hands  goin'  around  readin'  at  them  from  the  Good  Book  in  the  wil-  derness  like  she  did.  Then  she  done  get  away  and  have  all  them  preachers  for  sons!  I  tell  you  what,  I'd  just  shake  and  shiver  to  have  a  great-grandmoth-  er  like  that  one  hangin'  over  me.  She'd  bear  down  on  me  so.  I'd  feel  like  I  was  the  great-granddaughter  of  a  regular  holy  saint,  that's  what  I'd  feel,  and  I'd  think  I  never  could  live  up  to  what's  been  ordained  for  me  on  this  earth.  I'd  never  have  no  peace.  It  would  tighten  me  all  up  inside,  that  it  would.  &quot;Now,  I  had  me  a  great-grand-  mother,  and  she  was  the  other  way  around  entirely.  She  was  a  scamp  and  she  was  a  savage.  She  come  over  to  [REDACTED]  on  the  boat  they  called  the  Christian  Maiden-that's  what  they  call  it,  the  Christian  Maiden.  And  she  was  a  captive.  Only  then  the  sav-  ages  was  the  captives  and  the  civilized  folks  was  in  charge.  My,  she  was  sav-  age!  She  sure  were.  She  a  long  time  dead  before  I  was  born,  but  my  grand-  mother,  she  tell  me  all  about  her.  She  so  bad  I  ain't  even  going  to  discuss  her.  She  makes  me  feel  good,  though.  Ain't  no  difference  how  bad  I  get  sometimes,  I  think  of  her  and  I  feels  I'm  good.  I  feels  I'm  good  even  when  I'm  being  most  bad.  Yes'm,  I  don't  know  but  what  her  bein'  such  a  scamp  and  a  savage  don't  downright  encourage  me  to  be  bad  sometimes,  'cause  I  know  I'll  still  feel  I  not  anywhere  near  as  bad  as  she!&quot;  &quot;Why,  Alvernia!&quot;  &quot;Alvernia,  you  are  the  limit!&quot;  "