 THE  DOCTOR  IN  late  March,  the  snow  began  to  melt.  First  it  ran  off  the  slopes  and  roads,  and  the  brooks  started  flow-  ing.  Finally  there  were  only  low,  shaded  patches  in  the  woods.  In  April,  there  were  four  days  of  warm  sun,  and  on  the  first  day  Art  Castagnetto  told  Maxine  she  could  put  away  his  pajamas  until  next  year.  That  night  he  slept  in  a  T-shirt,  and  next  morning,  when  he  noticed  the  pots  on  the  radia-  tors  were  dry,  he  left  them  empty.  Maxine  didn't  believe  in  the  first  day,  or  the  second,  either.  But  on  the  third  afternoon,  wearing  shorts  and  a  sweatshirt,  she  got  the  charcoal  grill  from  the  garage,  put  it  in  the  back  yard,  and  broiled  steaks.  She  even  told  Art  to  get  some  tonic  and  limes  for  the  gin.  It  was  a  Saturday  afternoon;  they  sat  outs  de  in  canvas  lawn  chairs  and  told  Tina,  their  four-year-old  girl,  that  it  was  all  right  to  watch  the  charcoal  but  she  mustn't  touch  it,  because  it  was  burning  even  if  it  didn't  look  like  it.  When  thesteaks  were  ready,  the  sun  was  behind  the  woods  in  back  of  the  house;  Maxine  brought  sweaters  to  Art  and  the  four  children  so  they  could  eat  outside.  Monday  it  snowed.  The  snow  was  damp  at  first,  melting  on  the  dead  grass,  but  the  flakes  got  heavier  and  fell  as  slowly  as  tiny  leaves  and  cov-  ered  the  ground.In  another  two  days  the  snow  melted,  and  each  gray  cool  day  was  warmer  than  the  one  before.  Saturday  afternoon  the  sky  started  clearing;  there  was  a  sunset,  and  before  going  to  bed  Art  went  outside  and  looked  up  at  the  stars.  In  the  morning,  he  woke  to  a  bedroom  of  sunlight.  He  left  Maxine  sleeping,  put  on  a  T-shirt,  trunks,  and  tennis  shoes,  and  carrying  his  sweatsuit  he  went  downstairs,  tiptocing  because  the  children  slept  so  lightly  on  week-  ends.  He  dropped  his  sweatsuit  into  the  basket  for  dirty  clothes;  he  was  finished  with  it  until  next  fall.  He  did  side-straddle  hops  on  the  front  lawn  and  then  ran  on  the  shoul-  der  of  the  road,  which  forthe  first  half  mile  was  bordered  by  woods,  so  that  he  breathed  the  scent  of  pines  and,  he  believed,  the  sunlight  in  the  air.  Then  he  passed  the  Whitfords'  house.  He  had  never  seen  the  man  and  woman  but  had  read  their  name  on  the  mailbox  and  connected  it  with  the  children  who  usually  played  in  the  road  in  front  of  the  small  graying  house  set  back  in  the  trees.Its  dirt  yard  was  just  large  enough  to  contain  it  and  a  rusting     Ford  and  an  elm  tree  with  a  tire-and-  rope  swing  hanging  from  one  of  its  branches.  The  house  now  was  still  and  dark,  as  though  asleep.  He  went  around  the  bend  and,  looking  ahead,  saw  three  of  the  Whitford  boys  standing  by  the  brook.  It  was  a  shallow  brook,  which  had  its  prettiest  days  in  winter  when  it  was  frozen;  in  the  first  weeks  of  spring,  it  ran  clearly,  but  after  that  it  became  stagnant  and  around  July  it  dried.  This  brook  was  a  landmark  he  used  when  he  directed  friends  to  his  house.  &quot;You  get  to  a  brook  with  a  stone  bridge,&quot;  he'd  say.  The  bridge  wasn't  really  stone;  its  guard  walls  were  made  of  rectangular  concrete  slabs,  stacked  about  three  feet  high,  but  he  liked  stone  fences  and  stone  bridges  and  he  called  it  one.  On  a  slope  above  the  brook,  there  was  a  red  house.  A  young  childless  couple  lived  there,  and  now  the  man,  who  sold  life  insurance  in  [REDACTED],  was  driving  off  with  aboat  and  trailer  hitched  to  his  car.  His  wife  waved  goodbye  from  the  driveway,  and  the  Whitford  boys  stopped  throwing  rocks  into  the  brook  long  enough  to  wave,  too.  They  heard  Art's  feet  on  the  blacktop  and  turned  to  watch  him.  When  he  reached  the  bridge,  one  of  them  said  &quot;Hi,  Doctor,&quot;  and  Art  smiled  and  said  &quot;Hello&quot;  to  them  as  he  passed.  Crossing  the  bridge,  he  looked  down  at  the  brook.  It  was  moving,  slow  and  shallow,  into  the  dark  shade  of  the  woods.  About  a  mile  past  the  brook,  there  were  severalhouses,  with  short  stretches  of  woods  be-  tween  them.  At  the  first  house,  a  family  was  sitting  at  a  pic-  nic  table  in  the  side  yard,  read-  ing  the  Sunday  paper.  They  did  not  hear  him,  and  he  felt  like  a  spy  as  he  passed.  The  next  family,  about  a  hundred  yards  up  the  road,  was  working.  Two  little  girls  were  picking  up  trash,  and  the  man  and  woman  were  digging  a  flower  bed.  The  parents  turned  and  waved,  and  the  man  called,  &quot;It's  a  good  day  forit!&quot;  At  the  next  house,  a  young  couple  were  washing  their  Volkswagen,  the  girl  using  the  hose,  the  man  serub-  bing  away  the  dirt  of  winter.  They  looked  up  and  waved.  By  now  Art's  T-shirt  was  damp  and  cool,  and  he  had  his  second  wind.  All  up  the  road  it  was  like  that:  peo-  ple  cleaning  their  lawns,  washing  cars,  some  just  sitting  under  the  bright  sky;  one  large  bald  man  lifted  a  beer  can  and  grinned.  In  front  of  one  house,  APRIL  2  6,  1969  two  teen-age  boys  were  throwing  a  Frisbee;  farther  up  the  road,a  man  was  gently  pitching  a  softball  to  his  small  son,  who  wore  a  baseball  cap  and  chokedup  high  on  the  bat.  A  boy  and  girl  passed  Art  in  a  polished  green  M.G.,  the  top  down,  the  girl's  un-  scarfed  hair  blowing  across  her  cheek  as  she  leaned  over  and  quickly  kissed  the  boy's  ear.  All  the  lawn  people  waved  at  Art,  though  none  of  them  knew  him;  they  only  knew  he  was  the  obste-  trician  who  lived  in  the  big  house  in  the  woods.  When  he  turned  and  jogged  back  down  the  road,  they  waved  or  spoke  again;  this  time  they  were  not  as  spontaneous  but  more  casual,  more  familiar.  He  rounded  a  curve  a  quarter  ofa  mile  from  the  brook;  the  woman  was  back  in  her  house  and  the  Whitford  boys  were  gone,  too.  On  this  length  of  road  he  was  alone,  and  ahead  of  him  squirrels  and  chipmunks  fled  into  the  woods.  Then  something  was  wrong-he  felt  it  before  he  knew  it.  When  the  two  boys  ran  up  from  the  brook  into  his  vision,  he  started  sprinting  and  had  a  grateful  instant  when  he  felt  the  strength  left  in  his  legs,  though  still  he  didn't  know  if  there  was  any  reason  for  strength  and  speed.  He  pounded  over  the  blacktop  as  the  boys  scrambled  up  the  lawn,  toward  thered  house,  and  as  he  reached  the  bridge  he  shouted.  They  didn't  stop  until  he  shouted  again,  and  now  they  turned,  their  faces  pale  and  openmouthed,  and  pointed  at  the  brook  and  then  ran  back  toward  it.  Art  pivoted  off  the  road,  leaning  back-  ward  as  he  descended  the  short  rocky  bank,  around  the  end  of  the  bridge,  seeing  first  the  white  rectangle  of  con-  crete  lying  in  the  slow  water.  And  again  he  felt  before  he  knew:  he  was  in  the  water  to  his  knees,  bent  over  the  slab  and  getting  his  fingers  into  the  sand  beneath  it  before  he  looked  down  at  the  face  and  shoulders  and  chest.  Then  he  saw  the  arms,  too,  thrashing  under  water  as  though  digging  out  of  caved-  in  snow.  The  boy's  pale  hands  did  not  quite  reach  the  surface.  In  perhaps  five  seconds,  Art  realized  hecouldnot  lift  the  slab.  Then  he  was  running  up  the  lawn  to  the  red  house,  up  the  steps  and  shoving  open  the  side  door  and  yelling  as  he  bumped  into  the  kitchen  table,  pointing  one  hand  at  the  phone  on  the  wall  and  the  other  at  the  woman  in  a  bright-yellow  halter  as  she  backed  away,  her  arms  raised  before  her  face.  &quot;Fire  Department!  A  boy's  drown-  ing!&quot;  Pointing  behind  him  now,  toward  the  brook.  She  was  fast;  her  face  changed  fears  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  and  she  moved  toward  the  phone,  and  that  was  enough.  He  was  outside  again,  sprinting  out  of  a  stumble  as  he  left  the  steps,  darting  between  the  two  boys,  who  stood  mute  at  the  brook's  edge.  He  re-  fused  to  believe  it  was  this  simple  and  this  im-  possible.  He  thrust  his  hands  under  the  slab,  lifting  with  legs  and  arms,  and  now  he  heard  one  of  the  boys  moaning  behind  him,  &quot;It  fell  on  Terry,  it  fell  on  Terry.&quot;  Squat-  ting  in  the  water,  he  held  a  hand  over  the  Whitford  boy's  mouth  and  pinched  his  nos-  trils  together;  then  he  groaned,  for  now  his  own  hand  was  killing  the  child.  He  took  his  hand  away.  The  boy's  arms  had  stopped  mov-  ing-they  seemed  to  be  resting  at  his  sides-  and  Art  reached  down  and  felt  the  right  one  and  then  jerked  his  own  hand  out  of  the  water.  The  small  arm  was  hard  and  tight  and  quivering.  Art  touched  the  left  one,  running  his  hand  the  length  of  it,  and  felt  the  boy's  fingers  against  the  slab,  pushing.  The  sky  changed,  was  shattered  by  a  smoke-gray  sound  of  winter  nights  the  fire  horn-and  in  the  quiet  that  followed  he  heard  a  woman's  voice,  speaking  to  children.  He  turned  and  looked  at  her  standing  beside  him  in  the  water,  and  he  suddenly  wanted  to  be  held,  his  breast  against  hers,  but  her  eyes  shrieked  at  him  to  do  something,  and  he  bent  over  and  tried  again  to  lift  the  slab.  Then  she  was  beside  him,  and  they  kept  trying  until  ten  minutes  later,  when  four  volunteer  firemen  descend-  ed  out  of  the  dying  groan  of  the  siren  and  splashed  into  the  brook.  NO  one  knew  why  the  slab  had  fallen.  Throughout  the  after-  noon,  whenever  Art  tried  to  under-  stand  it,  he  felt  his  brain  go  taut  and  he  tried  to  stop  but  couldn't.  After  three  drinks,  he  thought  of  the  slab  as  he  always  thought  of  cancer:  that  it  had  the  volition  of  a  killer.  And  he  spoke  of  it  like  that  until  Maxine  said,  &quot;There  was  nothing  you  could  do.  It      took  five  men  and  a  woman  to  lift  it.&quot;  They  were  sitting  in  the  back  yard,  their  lawn  chairs  touching,  and  Maxine  was  holding  his  hand.  The  children  were  playing  in  front  of  the  house,  be-  cause  Maxine  had  told  them  what  hap-  pened,  told  them  Daddy  had  been  through  the  worst  day  of  his  life,  and  they  must  leave  him  alone  for  a  while.  She  kept  his  glass  filled  withgin-and-  tonic  and  once,  when  Tina  started  screaming  in  the  front  yard,  he  jumped  out  of  the  chair,  but  she  grabbed  his  wrist  and  held  it  tightly  and  said,  &quot;It's  nothing,  I'll  take  care  of  it.&quot;  She  went  around  the  house,  and  soon  Tina  stopped  crying,  and  Maxine  came  back  and  said  she'd  fallen  down  in  the  drive-  way  and  skinned  her  elbow.  Artwas  trembling.  &quot;Shouldn't  you  get  some  sedatives?&quot;  she  said.  He  shook  his  head,  then  started  to  cry.  Monday  morning  an  answer-or  at  least  a  possibility-was  waiting  for  him,  as  though  it  had  actually  chosen  to  en-  ter  his  mind  now,  with  the  buzzing  of  the  alarm  clock.  He  got  up  quickly  and  stood  in  a  shaft  of  sunlight  on  the  floor.  39  Maxine  had  rolled  away  from  the  clock  and  was  still  asleep.  He  put  on  trousers  and  moccasins  and  went  downstairs  and  then  outside  and  down  the  road  toward  the  brook.  He  wanted  to  run  but  he  kept  walk-  ing.  Before  reaching  the  Whitfords'  house,  he  crossed  to  the  op-  posite  side  of  the  road.  Back  in  the  trees,  their  house  was  shad-  owed  and  quiet.  He  walked  all  the  way  to  the  bridgebefore  he  stopped  and  looked  up  at  the  red  house.  Then  he  saw  it,  and  he  didn't  know  (and  would  nev-  er  know)  whether  he  had  seen  it  yesterday,  too,  as  he  ran  to  the  door  or  if  he  just  thought  he  had  seen  it.  But  it  was  there:  a  bright-green  garden  hose,  coiled  in  the  sun-  light  beside  the  house.  He  walked  home.  He  went  to  the  side  yard  where  his  own  hose  had  lain  all  win-  ter,  screwed  to  the  fau-  cet.  He  stood  looking  at  it,  and  then  he  went  inside  and  quietly  climbed  the  stairs,  into  the  sounds  of  breathing,  and  got  his  pocketknife.  Now  he  moved  faster,  down  the  stairs  and  outside,  and  he  picked  up  the  nozzle  end  of  the  hose  and  cut  it  off.  Farther  down,  he  cut  the  hose  again.  He  put  his  knife  away  and  then  stuck  one  end  of  the  short  piece  of  hose  in  his  mouth,  pressed  his  nostrils  between  two  fingers,  and  breathed.  He  looked  up  through  a  bare  maple  tree  at  the  sky.  Then  he  walked  around  the  house  to  the  Buick,  got  the  key  out  of  the  ignition,  and  opened  the  trunk.  His  fingers  were  trembling  as  he  lowered  the  piece  of  hose  and  placed  it  beside  his  first-aid  kit,  in  front  of  a  bucket  of  sand  and  a  small  snow  shov-  el  he  had  carried  all  through  the  win-  ter. "