YOUR  HOROSCOPE  (More  Unsorrcrrep  Guipance  rrom  Our  THERE]  Taurus  (Apr.  21-May  21)  With  [REDACTED]  ascendant  and  frozen  pork-belly  futures  holding  firm,  this  is  a  week  for  modest  household  chores.  Unkink  and  clean  all  shoelaces,  not  overlooking  the  lacing  on  your  football.  Recaulk  the  dog's  water  dish,  the  tank  on  the  Water  Pik,  etc.  Toward  the  end  of  the  week,  chair  casters  may  be  inspected  in  relative  safety.  Because  of  an  enigmatic  (or  quietly  amused)  as-  pect  of  Mercury,  it  would  be  wiser  not  to  get  dressed  before  nightfall.  GEmInt  (May  22-June  21)  Sorry,  Gemini  people,  but  still  no  ad-  vice  for  you.  Eleven  weeks  now  and  still  not  a  word  from  the  Stars  for  this  dormant  house!  Oh,  well,  things  are  bound  to  start  popping  soon.  Mean-  time,  try  not  to  do  anything  at  all.  CANCER  (June  22-July  23)  A  confused  period  for  you  normally  ebullient  Crabs.  Purely  social  occupa-  tions  will  help  keep  your  mind  off  in-  somnia,  erasers,  and  eastbound  water-  craft.  Damp  bathing  suits  may  prove  annoying  on  Tuesday,  but  try  to  keep  your  composure  at  all  costs.  Some  rumpling  of  the  eyebrows  may  be  ob-  served  upon  arising.  An  elderly  terrier  will  be  thinking  about  you  over  the  weekend.  Lro  (July  24-Aug.  23)  Your  best  week  of  the  entire  year  for  sheer  recklessness.  Obey  that  wiggy  im-  pulse!  Vault  subway  turnstiles,  dress  up  in  your  wife's  clothes,  tell  off  a  police-  man,  coat  yourself  in  peanut  butter-  it  doesn't  matter,  forthe  Stars  say  this  is  your  time  to  howl!  A  meditative  pe-  riod  will  descend  late  in  the  week,  when  you  may  wish  to  consult  legal  and  medical  experts.  Virco  (Aug.  24-Sept.  23)  Those  not  born  under  this  sign  would  do  well  to  visit  all  their  Virgo  friends  before  4:20  p.m.  on  Monday,  but  to  stay  well  away  thereafter.  As  for  you  Virgos-well,  astrology  is  still  a  difficult  science,  and  maybe  we're  read-  ing  these  signs  wrong,  ha,  ha!  Good  luck  to  you  all.  Lisra  (Sept.  24-Oct.  23)  A  time  for  inwardness  and  mental  housecleaning.  Try  to  rid  your  mind  of  excess  baggage.  Forget  about  the  Diet  of  Worms.  Forget  factoring,  the  cam-  bium  layer,  Deanna  Durbin,  and  Sibyl  Colefax.  Get  rid  of  the  Rock  of  Chickamauga,  the  color  of  Ventnor  Avenue,  and  the  words  of  &quot;Bibbidi-  Bobbidi-Boo.&quot;  Throw  out  Gantner  Wikies,  Engine  Charlie  Wilson,  and  &quot;anent.&quot;  Try  never  to  think  about  tun-  dra.  What  a  lot  of  trash  you've  been  carrying  around  in  the  old  bean!  No  wonder  you  can't  make  any  money.  ScorPpto  (Oct.  24-Nov.  22)  [REDACTED]  will  be  entering  this  house  shortly  after  lunch  on  Tuesday,  so  you  Scorpios,  already  habitually  suspicious,  would  do  well  to  double  your  guard  in  this  period.  If  your  friends  have  been  whispering  about  you  in  the  past,  just  think  what  they're  saying  now!  Laun-  drymen  and  Celts  may  try  to  bilk  you,  possibly  through  the  mails.  An  agent  of  a  Balkan  power,  perhaps  posing  as  a  close  relative,  will  try  to  blow  nerve  gas  through  your  telephone  receiver  while  you  sleep.  Next  week  will  be  worse.  SactrrarIus  (Nov.  23-Dec.  21)  All  you  Archers-so  good-looking,  so  impetuous,  so  lovably  harum-scar-  um-have  been  making  a  perfect  hash  of  your  lives  ever  since  the  moon  slipped  off  your  cusp  way  back  in  March,  1964.  Time  to  come  down  to  earth!  This  week,  try  to  study  some  modest,  everyday  object  and  appreciate  its  true  nature.  Study  one  of  your  thumbs,  for  instance.  Not  the  handsomest  of  all  your  fingers,  perhaps,  but  one  that  does  its  job,  day  in  and  day  out,  without  fanfare  or  vaingloriousness.  See  how  wrinkled  it  has  grown  around  the  knuckle,  but  with  never  a  word  of  complaint.  You  are  lucky  to  have  stub-  by  Mr.  Thumbkin  (a  typical  Gemini)  working  for  you,  and  you  might  do  well  to  emulate  his  patience.  If  you  were  a  dog  or  a  fox,  your  thumb  would  be  way  upby  your  wrist  somewhere,  and  absolutely  useless.  What  a  lesson  for  us  all!  Capricorn  (Dec.  22-Jan.  20)  Pablo  Casals,  Senator  Dirksen,  Re-  nata  Tebaldi,  Willie  McCovey,  How-     33  ard  Hughes,  Ava  Gardner,  President  Nasser,  and  President  Nixon  were  all  born  under  this  sign,  which  rules  the  knees.  The  best  guide  to  your  week  is  to  watch  these  fellow-Capricorns  close-  ly,  for  if  things  go  well  for  them  they  will  go  well  for  you,  too.  If  they  all  have  a  terrible  week-broken  cello  strings,  blocked  legislation,  tonsillitis,  popups,  etc.-so  will  you,  in  your  own  tiny  way.  You  may  find  it  difficult  to  discover  much  in  common  with  each  and  every  one  of  these  Goat  people,  but  that's  the  way  astrology  works,  so  stop  complaining.  AquARIUs  (Jan.  21-Feb.  19)  Persons  born  under  Aquarius  are  restless,  indolent,  fond  of  water  sports,  pleasing,  and  agreeable.  Their  greatest  fault  is  procrastination.  This  will  be  a  fine  week  for  you  to  mooch  around  the  house  quietly,  smoothing  over  fam-  ily  arguments  and  making  friends  with  the  milkman.  Take  a  nap  orlook  out  the  window  for  a  while,  Maybe  you  could  get  in  a  little  surfing.  On  the  other  hand,  why  don't  you  wait  and  go  surfing  next  week?  What  the  hell.  Pisors  (Feb.  20-Mar.  20)  This  week  climaxes  a  series  of  high-  ly  favorable  indications  for  fish  and  Fish  people.  Go  to  the  aquarium,  take  up  fly-tying,  buy  a  pair  of  guppies.  Try  codfish  balls  for  breakfast-delicious!  On  Friday,  before  the  onset  of  your  coming  counter-period  of  drought,  why  not  throw  a  mammoth  &quot;Fish  Fry&quot;?  Invite  Hamilton  Fish,  Bob  Trout,  Ben  Pollack,  Dick  Bass,  Jean  Shrimpton,  Aldo  Ray,  Hulan  Jack,  Bishop  Pike,  etc.  How  they  will  laugh  when  they  all  &quot;get  it&quot;!  Artes  (Mar.  21-Apr.  20)  The  Stars  tell  us  that  during  the  coming  six  to  eight  weeks  the  Indo-  nesian  government  will  be  overthrown  by  a  Mormon  clique;  two  European  chiefs  of  state  will  be  unmasked  as  C.I.A.  agents;  Liverpool  will  be  rav-  aged  by  locusts;  Akron,  [REDACTED],  will  slide  into  the  Atlantic  Ocean  (you  can't  argue  with  the  Stars);  the  In-  ternational  Monetary  Fund  will  be  rocked  by  a  Profumo-type  scandal;  and  an  oil  slick  will  imperil  the  Woll-  man  Memorial  Rink.  In  view  ofthe  world-shaking  nature  of  these  impend-  ing  events,  how  can  you  pushy,  in-  variably  selfish  Rams  keep  asking  astrologists  for  help  with  your  petty  personal  affairs?  Enough,  already!  Can't  you  see  we're  busy?  "