YOU  ARE  NOW  ENTERING  THE  HUMAN  HEART  LOOKED  at  the  notice.  I  won-  dered  if  I  had  time  before  my  train  left  [REDACTED]  for  Baltimore  in  one  hour.  The  heart,  ceiling-high,  oc-  cupied  one  corner  ofthe  large  exhi-  bition  hall,  and  from  wherever  you  stood  in  the  hall  you  could  hear  its  beating,  thum-thump-thum-thump.  It  was  a  popular  exhibit,  and  sometimes,  when  there  were  too  many  children  about,  the  entrance  had  to  be  roped  off,  as  the  children  loved  to  race  up  and  down  the  blood  vessels  and  match  their  cries  to  the  heart's  beating.  I  could  see  that  the  heart  had  already  been  pun-  ished  for  the  day-the  floor  ofthe  blood  vessel  was  worn  and  dusty,  the  chamber  walls  were  covered  with  marks,  and  the  notice  &quot;You  Are  Now  Taking  the  Path  of  a  Blood  Cell  Through  the  Human  Heart&quot;  hung  askew.  I  wanted  to  see  more  of  the  Franklin  Institute  and  the  Natural  Science  Museum  across  the  street,  but  a  journey  through  the  human  heart  would  be  fascinating.  Did  I  have  time?  Later.  First,  I  would  go  across  the  street  to  the  Hall  of  43616e616461America,  among  the  bear  and  the  bison,  and  catch  upon  American  flora  and  fauna.  I  made  my  way  to  the  Hall.  More  children,  sitting  in  rows  on  canvas  chairs.  An  elementary  class  from  a  city  school,  under  the  control  of  an  elderly  teacher.  A  museum  attendant  holding  a  basket,  and  all  eyes  gazing  at  the  basket.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Is  this  a  private  les-  son?  Is  it  all  right  for  me  to  be  here?&quot;  The  attendant  was  brisk.  &quot;Surely.  We're  haying  a  lesson  in  snake-handling,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  something  new.  Get  the  children  young  and  teach  them  that  every  snake  they  meet  is  not  to  be  killed.  People  seem  to  think  that  every  snake  has  to  be  knocked  on  the  head.  So  we're  getting  them  young  and  teaching  them.&quot;  &quot;May  I  watch?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Surely.  This  is  a  common  grass  snake.  No  harm,  no  harm  at  all.  Teach  the  children  to  learn  the  feel  of  them,  to  lose  their  fear.&quot;  He  turned  to  the  teacher.  &quot;Now,  Miss  Mrs.-&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Miss  Aitcheson.&quot;  He  lowered  his  voice,  &quot;The  best  way  to  get  through  to  the  children  is  to  start  with  teacher,&quot;  he  said  to  Miss  Aitcheson.  &quot;If  they  see  you're  not  afraid,  then  they  won't  be.&quot;     She  must  be  near  retiring  age,  I  thought.  A  city  woman.  Never  handled  a  snake  in  her  life.  Her  face  was  pale.  She  just  managed  to  drag  the  fear  from  her  eyes  to  some  place  in  their  depths,  where  it  lurked  l'ke  a  dark  stain.  Surely  the  attendant  and  the  children  no-  ticed?  &quot;It's  harmless,&quot;  the  attendant  said.  He'd  been  working  with  snakes  for  years.  Miss  Aitcheson,  I  thought  again.  A  city  woman  born  and  bred.  All  snakes  were  creatures  to  kill,  to  be  protected  from,  alike  the  rattler,  the  copperhead,  king  snake,  grass  snake-venom  and  victims.  Were  there  not  places  in  the  [REDACTED]  where  you  couldn't  go  into  the  streets  for  fear  ofthe  rattlesnakes?  Her  eyes  faced  the  lighted  exit.  I  saw  her  fear.  The  exit  light  blinked,  hooded.  The  children,  none  of  whom  had  ever  touched  a  live  snake,  were  sit-  ting  hushed,  waiting  for  the  drama  to  begin;  one  or  two  looked  afraid  as  the  attendant  withdrew  a  green  snake  about  three  feet  long  from  the  basket  and  with  a  swift  movement,  before  the  teacher  could  protest,  draped  it  around  her  neck  and  stepped  back,  admiring  and  satisfied.  &quot;There,&quot;  he  saidto  the  class.  &quot;Your  teacher  has  a  snake  around  her  neck  and  she's  not  afraid.&quot;  Miss  Aitcheson  stood  rigid;  she  seemed  to  be  holding  her  breath.  &quot;Teacher's  not  afraid,  are  you?&quot;  the  attendant  persisted.  He  leaned  for-  ward,  pronouncing  judgment  on  her,  while  she  suddenly  jerked  her  head  and  lifted  her  hands  in  panic  to  get  rid  of  the  snake.  Then,  seeing  the  chil-  dren  watching  her,  she  whis-  pered,  &quot;No,  I'm  not  afraid.  Of  course  not.&quot;  She  looked  around  her.  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  she  re-  peated  sharply.  I  could  see  her  defeat  and  helplessness.  The  attendant  seemed  un-  aware,  as  if  his  perception  had  grown  a  reptilian  'covering.  What  did  she  care  for  the  campaign  for  the  preservation  and  welfare  of  copperheads  and  rattlers  and  common  grass  snakes?  What  did  she  care  about  someday  walkingthrough  the  woods  or  the  desert  and  deciding  between  killing  a  snake  and  setting  it  free,  as  if  there  would  be  time  to  de-  cide,  when  her  journey  to  and  from  school  in  downtown  [REDACTED]  held  enough  danger  to  occupy  her?  In  two  years  or  so,  she'd  retire  and  be  in  that  apartment  by  herself  and  no  doorman,  &gt;  " b"and  everyone  knew  what  happened  then,  and  how  she'd  be  afraid  to  answer  the  door  and  to  walk  after  dark  and  carry  her  pocketbook  in  the  street.  There  was  enough  to  think  about  with-  out  learning  to  handle  and  love  the  snakes,  harmless  and  otherwise,  byhav-  ing  them  draped  around  her  neck  for  everyone,  including  the  children-most  of  all  the  children-to  witness  the  out-  break  of  her  fear.  &quot;See,  Miss  Aitcheson's  touching  the  snake.  She's  not  afraid  of  it  at  all.&quot;  As  everyone  watched,  she  touched  the  snake.  Her  fingers  recoiled.  She  touched  it  again.  &quot;See,  she's  not  afraid.  Miss  Aitche-  son  can  stand  there  with  abeautiful  snake  around  her  neck  and  touch  it  and  stroke  it  and  not  be  afraid.&quot;  The  faces  of  the  children  were  full  of  admiration  for  the  teacher's  brav-  ery,  and  yet  there  was  a  cruelly  persist,  ent  tension;  they  were  waiting,  wait-  ing.  &quot;We  have  to  learn  to  love  snakes,&quot;  the  attendant  said.  &quot;Would  someone  like  to  come  out  and  stroke  teacher's  snake?&quot;  Silence.  One  shamefaced  boy  came  forward.  He  stood  petrified  in  front  of  the  teach-  er.  &quot;Touch  it,&quot;  the  attendant  urged.  &quot;It's  a  friendly  snake.  Teacher's  wear-  ing  it  around  her  neck  and  she's  not  afraid.&quot;  The  boy  darted  his  hand  forward,  rested  it  lightly  on  the  snake,  and  im-  mediately  withdrew  his  hand.  Then  he  ran  back  to  his  seat.  The  children  shrieked  with  glee.  &quot;He's  afraid,&quot;  someone  said.  &quot;He's  afraid  of  the  snake.&quot;  The  attendant  soothed.  &quot;We  have  to  get  used  to  them,  you  know.  Grownups  are  not  afraid  of  them,  but  we  can  understand  that  when  you're  small  you  might  be  afraid,  and  that's  why  we  want  you  to  learn  to  love  them.  Isn't  that  right,  Miss  Aitcheson?  Isn't  that  right?  Now  who  else  is  go-  ing  to  be  brave  enough  to  touch  teach-  er's  snake?&quot;  Two  girls  came  out.  They  stood  hand  in  hand  side  by  side  and  stared  at  the  snake  and  then  at  Miss  Aitche-  son.  I  wondered  when  the  torture  would  end.  The  two  little  girls  did  not  touch  the  snake,  but  they  smiled  at  it  and  spoke  to  it  and  Miss  Aitcheson  smiled  at  them  and  whispered  how  brave  they  were.  &quot;Just  a  minute,&quot;  the  attendant  said.  &quot;There's  really  no  need  to  be  brave.  It's  not  a  question  of  bravery.  The     " b"  snake  is  harmless,  absolutely  harmless.  Where's  the  bravery  when  the  snake  is  harmless?&quot;  Suddenly  the  snake  moved  around  to  face  Miss  Aitcheson  and  thrust  its  flat  head  toward  her  cheek.  She  gave  a  scream,  flung  up  her  hands,  and  tore  the  snake  from  her  throat  and  threw  it  on  the  floor,  and,  rushing  across  the  room,  she  collapsed  into  a  small  canvas  chair  beside  the  Bear  Cabinet  and  started  to  cry.       I  didn't  feel  I  should  watch  any  g  longer.  Some  of  the  children  began  to  laugh,  some  to  cry.  The  attendant  picked  up  the  snake  and  nursed  it.  Miss  Aitcheson,  recovering,  sat  helplessly  ex-  posed  by  the  small  piece  of  useless  tor-  ture.  It  was  nother  fault  she  was  city-  bred,  her  eyes  triedto  tell  us.  She  looked  at  the  children,  trying  in  some  way  to  force  their  admiration  and  respect;  they  were  shut  against  her.  She  was  evicted  from  them  and  from  herself  and  even  from  her  own  fear-  infested  tomorrow,  because  she  could  not  promise  to  love  and  preserve  what  |  ji  she  feared.  She  had  nowhere,  at  that  moment,  but  the  small  canvas  chair  by  the  Bear  Cabinet  of  the  Natural  Sci-  ence  Museum.  I  looked  at  my  watch.  If  I  hurried,  I  would  catch  the  train  from  Thirtieth  Street.  There  would  be  no  time  to  make  the  journey  through  the  human  heart.  I  hurried  out  of  the  museum.  It  was  freezing  cold.  The  icebreakers  would  be  at  work  on  the  [REDACTED]  and  the  Susquehanna;  the  mist  would  have  risen  by  the  time  I  arrived  home.  Yes,  I  would  just  catch  the  train  from  Thir-  tieth  Street.  The  journey  through  the  human  heart  would  have  to  wait  until   some other time.   "