CONTENT  OF  TABLES  MONG  the  cultural  highlights  promised  for  this  spring  of  2169,  particular  interest  has  been  aroused  by  the  Exhibition  of  An-  tique  Conference  Tables,  due  to  open  Monday,  May  1st,  at  the  Furniture  Galleries.  A  preview  of  the  Catalogue  Raisonn\xc3\xa9  revealsthat  many  rare  treas-  ures,  some  on  public  view  forthe  first  time,  have  been  assembled  from  all  over  the  world  and  grouped,  as  far  as  possible,  in  chronological  order.  'The  visitor  will  be  able  to  follow  the  de-  velopment  of  Conference  styles  right  through  the  great  period  of  inspired  de-  sign,  from  the  collapse  of  the  severely  classical  Rectilinear  Table-which  proved  unequal,  in  the  middle  of  the  twentieth  century,  to  thetask  of  main-  taining  international  understanding-  to  the  end  of  the  Conference  Era.  Tue  Winoeo  Circus  ([REDACTED],  circa  1969-70):  Known  affectionately  to  connoisseurs  as  Old  Necessity,  this  priceless  relic  enshrines  the  first  real  breakthrough  in  Conference  design.  &quot;At  a  single  stroke,&quot;  as  Rundmeyer  has  well  said,  &quot;it  reversed  the  tradition-  al  procedure  and,  instead  of  putting  the  agenda  on  the  table,  put  the  table  on,  the  agenda.&quot;  The  central  circular  structure,  thought  to  have  symbolized  unity  and  solidarity,  is  flanked  by  two  rectangular  outcrops,  or  &quot;wings,&quot;  probably  repre-  senting  inspiration  or  sublimity.  The  chairs  have  perished  and  noth-  ing  is  known  ofthe  seat-  ing  arrangements  or  the  precise  purpose  served,  but  mensalists  are  agreed  that  the  airy  simplicity  of  the  basic  plan  is  typ-  ical  of  what  had  come  to  be  called  the  Age  of  Hope.  Note  the  pieces  of  gum,  much  shrivelled  but  still  adhering  to  the  underside  of  the  table,  which  may  have  been  used  to  affix  seals  or  signatures.  Tur  Greek  Cross:  A  natural  de-  velopment  from  the  Winged  Circle  through  the  addition  of  polygonal  ex-  tensions  to  north  and  south  of  the  cen-  tral  core  as  well  as  to  east  and  west.  Originally  planned  to  enable  the  repre-  sentatives  of  537061696e,  43756261,  Saudi  Arabia,  and  [REDACTED]  to  be  seated  at  the  maximum  distance  apart  and  yet  in  positions  of  per-  fect  equality,  this  design  had  a  short-  lived  vogue  during  the  nineteen-eighties  but  suffered  from  the  inherent  defect     that  delegates  seated  on  the  ares  of  the  circle,  between  the  wings  or  transepts,  inevitably  had  less  legroom  than  others  and  complained  of  victimization.  To  solve  this  problem,  Galazzi,  the  bril-  liant  Veronese  Supellectile  Adviser  to  the  U.N.,  devised  the  Apsidal  Style.  ApstDaL  STYLE  (Exhibits  9  to  14)  :  Here,  as  will  be  seen,  the  rectilinear,  or  polygonal,  projections  of  the  [REDACTED]  Epoch  have  given  way  to  a  series  of  contiguous  semicircular  apsidal  bulges.  The  whole  structure,  if  inverted  and  set  down  in  mud,  would  leave  the  im-  pression  of  an  elephant's  foot,  and  the  style  is  in  fact  referred  to  as  the  Pachy-  dermatous  by  some  Oriental  authori-  ties.  No  room  was  now  left  for  chairs  at  the  central  circle,  which  gradually  withered  away  until,  by  the  time  ofthe  abortive  Quebec  Conference  of  2015,  nothing  remained  of  it  (Exhibit  14)  except  a  narrow  rim  or  balustrade  link-  ing  the  apses  together.  The  inner  space  thus  made  available  tended,  in  all  prob-  ability,  to  be  occupied  by  interpreters,  protocolists,  and  strolling  musicians.  Resraurant  Peron  (Room  III):  The  process  of  fragmentation,  of  which  the  seeds  had  been  sown  by  Old  Necessity  herself  and  whose  fruition  was  hastened  by  an  increasing  reluc-  tance  among  confer-  ence-minded  nations  to  sit  down  at  the  same  table  with  anybody,  reached  its  apogee  around  the  mid-twen-  ty-first  century,  when  the  apses  were  finally  severed  from  their  con-  necting  balustrade,  rounded  off  to  make  small,  perfectly  circular,  centrally  supported  ta-  bles,  and  dotted  about  the  Conference  Chamber  in  the  man-  ner  that  gave  this  period  its  name.  At  each  new  item  on  the  agenda,  or  when-  ever  a  deadlock  was  reached,  one  dele-  gate  from  each  table  moved  clockwise  to  the  next,  and  one  counterclockwise,  so  that  everybody  eventually  met  every-  body  whether  they  liked  it  or  not,  as  at  whist  drives.  The  famous  fracas  at  Rangoon,  when  the  Russians  refused  to  move  to  an  unfashionable  table  near  the  ladies'  rest  room,  together  with  the  need,  as  conferences  grew  in  size,  for  an  unmanageably  long  agenda  (or,  alternatively,  a  heavy  program  of  prearranged  deadlocks),  led  to  the  great  Conference  Table  Conference  at  Geneva  in  2058,  which  broke  up  in  confusion  because  of  an  inability  to  agree  upon  the  kind  of  table  or  tablesat  which  the  Conference  should  confer.  There  ensued  the  so-called  Anti-T  able  Decade  (not  represented  at  this  exhibi-  tion),  during  which  delegates  argued  standing-an  interesting  throwback  to  the  Cocktail  Party  Era  of  the  early  ninetecen-hundreds.  Cmamrort's  TrIPLE-DECKER:  The  inevitable  reaction  away  from  dis-  integration  and  back  to  cohesion  in  de-  sign  was  signalized  by  the  appearance  at  Valparaiso,  in  2069,  of  Oscar  Cham-  fort's  monumental  three-tiered  table.  Built  to  accommodate,  within  shouting  distance  of  each  other,  all  the  [REDACTED]  American  states,  the  Afro-Asian  na-  tions,  and  thirty-seven  other  countries  interested  in  the  protection  of  the  whale  industry  against  disruption  by  falling  space  capsules,  it  r'ses  in  a  series  of  alu-  minum-alloy  hoops  supported  on  fibre-  glass  scaffolding  round  a  central  well  or  funnel,  which  narrows  from  top  to  bottom  to  secure  maximum  intervisi-  bility  between  delegations  in  the  sev-  eral  tiers.  To  obviate  altercations  on  the  score  of  prestige,  very  careful  grada-  tions  in  sitting  comfort,  elbowroom,  etc.,  are  employed  from  tier  to  tier,  so  that  any  feeling  of  inferiority  in  the  bottom  row  vis-a-v's  those  above  is  bal-  anced  out  by  better  cushioning  and  rounded  bench  backs.  Footstools  were  provided  on  Tier  2.  Especially  to  be  noted  is  Chamfort's  ingenious  answer  to  an  objection,  lodged  by  [REDACTED]  and  others,  that  only  bottom-tier  delegates  would  be  in  a  position  to  stage  an  im-  mediate  and  effective  walkout  when  the  need  arose.  The  self-ejection  seats  fitted  on  the  upper  tiers  still  work  smoothly  and  efficiently.  Tur  WarEr  Tasur:  Outside  the  mainstream  of  development  lies  this  unique  piece  of  marine  furniture.  Un-  able  to  agree  upon  a  venue,  or  even  on  a  suitably  uncommitted  vessel  or  air-  craft  for  their  meeting  to  discuss  the  polar  drug  traffic,  in  2071,  eighteen  nations  decided  to  sit  down  together  in,  or  just  above,  the  open  sea.  The  extant  fragment  of  the  original  instructions  issued  by  the  steering  committee  for  the  construction  of  this  tablewill  be  found  alongside  the  exhibit  in  Room  V.  It  reads,  &quot;.  ..  the  whole  being  supported  on  some  sort  of  air  cushion,  on  the  old  Hover-craft  principle,  or  by  means  of  water  wings.  In  the  event  of  weather  worsening  beyond  Force  5,  delegates  will  adjourn  by  winch.  Let  anchorage  be  provided  to  avert  risk  of  the  Table's  " b" drifting  inside  territorial  waters.  It  must  go  up  and  down  with  the  tide.&quot;  Two  barnacled  fragments  of  the  Wa-  ter  Table  are  here  displayed,  and  bear  mute  witness  to  man's  inability  at  this  period  to  agree  upon  concerted  action  even  in  the  face  of  sharks.  Baroogur  anp  THE  NEOCLAssICAL  RreEvivar:  In  Room  VIwe  return  to  more  seminal  conceptions.  Chamfort's  functional  masterpiece  rapidly  degener-  ated,  during  the  spate  of  conferences  in  the  twenty-cighties  and  nineties,  into  an  unrestrained  enthusiasm  for  the  ba-  roque  and  the  rococo.  Design  became  so  extravagant,  so  contorted  by  proto-  col  and  the  demand  for  nationalist  mo-  tifs  and  materials,that  discussion  proved  almost  impossible.  [REDACTED]  in-  sisted  on  mahogany,  [REDACTED]  called  for  pagodas.  Domed  tables,  tangled  acanthus  leaves,  wickerwork  surfaces  that  doubled  the  difficulty  of  making  worthwhile  notes,  even  soda-fountain  counters  at  the  insistence  of  the  renas-  cent  French-this  luxuriant  decadence  of  Late  Conference  is  amply  illustrated  in  Exhibits  36-54.  Note  the  attempt  at  secrecy  in  the  built-in  minarets  on  No.  45,  and  traces,  in  No.  51,  of  an  effort  to  incorporate  Benares  brass  nameplates  into  a  transparently  Swedish  glass  breakfast  tray.  At  the  turn  of  the  century,  with  the  introduction  of  Slessinger's  nobly  aus-  tere  neoclassical  Revolving  Pente-  contahedron  (Exhibit  55),  came  the  eagerly  awaited  reaction.  But  it  came  too  late.  The  appeal  of  simplicity  and  a  smooth  surface  to  write  upon  was  lost  in  a  welter  of  argument  over  the  opti-  mum  speed  of  rotation.  At  the  height  ofthe  uproar,  the  President  of  [REDACTED],  who  was  noticed  to  be  turning  green,  uttered  his  historic  cry,  &quot;For  God's  sake,  let  us  sit  upon  the  ground!&quot;  The  motion  was  carried,  and  the  Era  of  the  Conference  Table  petered  out  in  a  dis-  mal  al-fresco  anticlimax.  "