NOTES  FROM  A  BOTTLE  (A  bottle  containing  the  following  motes  was  discovered  on  a  mountain-  side  on  Ascension  Island,  in  the  [REDACTED]  Atlantic.)  ARCH  23rd.  7  a.m.:  Looked  out  M  the  window  of  my  apartment,  saw  that  the  water  was  up  to  the  second  story  all  along  Eighty-sixth  Street.  Yesterday,  the  movie  marquees  toward  [REDACTED]  were  still  visible  at  twilight,  but  this  morning  they  are  gone,  There  were,  of  course,  no  lights  last  night-there  has  been  no  electricity  in  the  city  for  three  days.  (No  tele-  phones,  no  water,  no  heat,  no  televi-  sion.  Heat  and  telephone  service  had  been  gone  for  several  days  before  that,  owing  to  the  fuel  strike  and  the  phone  strike.  Some  portable  radios  still  work,  but  they  receive  only  the  grainy  sound  of  static.)  A  light  snow  is  falling.  4  p.m.:  It  is  almost  dark  again,  and  the  water  is  approaching  the  fourth  floor.  No  planes  or  helicopters  were  seen  today;  the  airports  were  probably  the  first  to  flood,  and  any  planes  that  managed  to  get  aloft  would  have  run  out  of  fuel  by  now.  It  looks  like  an-  othernight  of  parties  and  celebrations.  Across  the  street,  candles  and  flashlight  beams  move  about  in  the  windows,  and  in  our  building  loud,  cheerful  voices  can  be  heard  echoing  in  the  fire  stairs.  There  is  a  lot  of  shrieking  and  laughter.  The  children,  as  usual,  are  riding  bicycles  up  and  down  the  halls,  as  adults-bundled  up  in  all  man-  ner  of  clothing,  and  carrying  drinks  and  candles-roam  the  building,  going  from  one  party  to  another.  The  Wil-  liamses,  who  were  supposed  to  goon  a  cruise,  have  been  dancing  around  in  their  vacation  clothes-Audrey  in  a  fur  coat  and  bathing  suit,  Harold  in  a  mask  and  flippers.  A  lot  of  things  have  been  thrown  out  of  win-  dows;  Ed  Shea  on  7  was  tossing  an  orange  back  and  forth  to  somebody  in  the  building  across  the  street;  one  group  was  skimming  L.P.  records,  throwing  them  like  Frisbees.  There  has  been  a  good  deal  of  horseplay.  Carson  on  8  would  lean  out  his  window  and  drop  a  paper  bag  full  of  flour  on  any  head  that  was  sticking  out  below.  The  biggest  party  last  night  was  in  the  MacNeills  on  4-Alice  played  the  pi-  ano,  and  everyone  sang  and  danced  until  around  three.  (Today,  a  group  of  volunteers  is  moving  the  piano  up  to  the  Webers'  on  6,  just  in  case,  and  the  Webers  intend  to  have  everybody  in.)  Phil  Lewis  amused  everybody  last  night,  saying  that  an  ark  was  on  its  way  and  that  it  was  going  to  take  two  people  from  the  upper  East  Side.  Martin,  the  doorman,  has  been  drunk  for  a  couple  of  days;  he  opened  the  Wenkers'  apartment  on  10-they're  in  537061696e-and  he  has  been  holding  court  up  there,  dispensing  the  Wenkers'  liq-  uor  with  a  free  hand.  There  is  still  no  explanation  for  the  flood,  beyond  ru-  mors  shouted  from  one  building  to  another.  A  lot  of  activity  on  Eighty-  sixth  Street  during  the  day.  For  a  while,  everyone  was  throwing  piles  of  flaming  newspapers  out  their  windows  and  watching  them  float  away,  burn-  ing,  and  there  was  considerable  boat  traffic-outboards,  rowboats,  a  Circle  Line  boat  with  a  crowd  aboard,  a  small  tug,  a  speedboat  full  of  howling  drunks  towing  a  water  skier  in  a  black  wet-suit.  An  hour  ago,  the  May-  or  went  by,  smiling  grimly,  in  a  large  Chris-Craft  cruiser  with  the  city  flag  on  the  stern,  the  deck  jammed  with  officials.  Presumably,  the  water  has  reached  Gracie  Mansion  by  now,  al-  though  the  mansion  is  on  high  ground.  MARCH  24th.  3  p.m.:  The  water  is  now  just  below  my  windows  on  the  ninth  floor.  There  is  nothing  to  do  but  watch.  The  water  is  filthy-there  had  been  the  six-week  garbage  strike,  and  all  the  city's  garbage  is  awash-and  the  seagulls  are  everywhere,  feasting.  A  number  of  people  came  up  to  stay  in  my  apartment  during  the  night,  but  they  have  left  now  and  gone  to  a  higher  floor.  They  all  arrived  with  apologies  and  genial  remarks,  but  when     31  they  left  they  did  so  without  fanfare-  simply  disappeared,  one  or  two  at  a  time,  when  I  wasn't  looking.  I'd  hear  the  door  click  shut,  and  I'd  know  they'd  gone  upstairs.  There  has  been  constant  speculation  on  the  cause  of  the  flood-an  atomic  testin  the  Arctic  is  a  popular  explanation-but  no  one  has  any  information  at  all,  and  no  one  real-  ly  expects  any.  Those  of  us  who  have  lived  here  for  any  length  of  time  have  become  hardened:  one  simply  waits.  Langford,  the  lawyer,  who  recently  moved  to  New  York  and  lives  on  8,  was  furious  at  first.  &quot;Why  haven't  we  been  informed?&quot;  he  kept  demanding.  &quot;I  have  contacts  in  [REDACTED].  ...&quot;  But  when  I  saw  him  a  few  minutes  ago-he  was  standing  in  the  hall,  eat-  ing  a  once-frozen  TV  dinner-he  was  brooding,  and  when  others  spoke  to  him  he  didn't  reply.  5  p.m.:  The  strangest  thing  is  the  silence  of  the  city.  No  car  noises,  honk-  ing,  sirens.  Bodies  float  by,  tangled  in  wreckage-furniture,  lumber,  trash.  Suddenly  a  boat's  horn,  butthen  it  is  silent  again-extraordinary  silence.  The  loudest  sound,  except  when  the  gulls  come  near,  is  the  slap  of  water  just  below  the  windowsill,  or  the  scrape  of  something  bumping  the  win-  dow  air-conditioner.     MARCH  25th:  We  are  on  the  roof  now.  I  have  no  idea  what  time  it  is,  but  it  is  daylight.  The  lower  buildings  have  been  submerged,  the  tall  office  buildings  stand  like  tomb-  stones  above  the  heaving  waves.  There  are  whitecaps  toward  [REDACTED].  An  ocean  liner  stood  by  the  Pan  Am  Building  for  a  while,  then  moved  out  to  sea.  Our  rooftop  is  packed  with  peo-  ple;  many  huddle  against  the  chim-  neys,  trying  to  keep  away  from  the  bitter  wind.  Alice  MacNeill-her  pi-  ano  was  abandoned  on  8-tried  to  get  everyone  to  sing  &quot;Nearer  My  God  to  Thee,&quot;  but  there  was  little  response.  No  one  wants  to  accept  the  situation  as  final,  and  yet  everyone  is  keeping  to  himself.  Langford,  I  notice,  has  moved  toward  the  tallest  TV  antenna  and  has  stationed  himself  near  its  base.  He  dreams,  I  suppose,  that  when  the  water  covers  the  roof  and  the  skylights  and  the  chimneys,  he  will  shinny  up  the  pole  and  cling  to  the  top.  In  his  mind,  probably,  the  water  will  rise  until  it  reaches  his  ankles,  and  then  stop.  That  is  his  hope.  Then  the  water  will  recede,  go  down,  down,  down-and  he  will  be  saved.  The  water  is  swirling  around  the  skylights  now.  The  wind  shifts.  The  waves  are  coming  straight  in  from  the  Atlantic.  -James  STEvENson  "