"THE  BIG  HOUGH  I  had  always  wanted  to  be  an  opium  addict,  I  can't  claim  that  as  the  reason  I  went  to  4368696e61.  The  opium  ambition  dates  back  to  that  obscure  periodof  child-  hood  when  I  wanted  to  be  a  lot  of  other  things,  too-the  greatest  expert  on  ghosts,  the  world's  best  ice  skater,  the  champion  lion  tamer,  you  know  the  kind  of  thing.  But  by  the  time  I  went  to  4368696e61  I  was  grown  up,  and  all  those  dreams  were  forgotten.  It  was  early  in  1935,  and  my  sister  [REDACTED]  was  touring  with  me,  in  4a6170616e.  [REDACTED]  kept  saying  that  she  would  go  home  to  [REDACTED],  where  her  husband  was  waiting,  as  soon  as  she'd  seen  4a6170616e,  but  as  the  time  for  her  departure  drew  near  she  grew  reluctant  and  looked  around  for  a  good  excuse  to  prolong  the  tour.  As  she  pointed  out  to  me,  4368696e61  was  awfully  close  by  and  we  knew  that  an  old  friend  was  living  in  4368696e61.  It  would  be  such  a  waste  to  let  the  chance  slip.  Why  shouldn't  we  go  over  and  take  just  one  look,  for  a  weekend?  I  was  quite  amenable,  especially  as,  for  my  part,  I  didn't  have  to  go  back  to  [REDACTED].  My  inten-  tion  was  to  move  on  south  in  leisurely  fashion,  after  [REDACTED]  had  gone  home,  and  land  someday  in  the  Belgian  [REDACTED],  where  I  planned  to  find  a  job.  All  this  wasn't  going  to  have  to  be  done  with  speed,  because  I  still  had  enough  money  to  live  on  for  a  while.  My  sister  accepted  these  plans  as  natural,  for  she  knew  that  a  man  had  thrown  me  over.  Officially,  as  it  were,  I  was  going  to  the  [REDACTED]  to  forget  that  my  heart  was  broken;  it  was  the  proper  thing  to  do  in  the  circumstances.  My  attitude  toward  her  was  equally  easy-  going.  If  she  didn't  want  to  go  home  just  yet,  I  felt,  it  was  none  of  my  busi-  ness.  So  when  she  suggested  4368696e61  I  said,  &quot;Sure,  why  not?&quot;  We  went.  We  loved  4368696e61.  [REDACTED]  shut  up  her  conscience  for  another  two  months,  staying  on  and  cramming  in  a  tremendous  variety  of  activities-parties,  temples,  curio  shops,  having  dresses  made  to  order  over-  night,  a  trip  to  Peiping,  embassy  re-  ceptions,  races.  I  didn't  try  to  keep  up  with  her.  It  had  become  clear  to  me  from  the  first  day  in  4368696e61  that  I  was  going  to  stay  forever,  so  I  had  plenty  of  time.  Without  a  struggle,  I  shelved  the  [REDACTED]  and  hireda  lan-  guage  teacher,  and  before  [REDACTED]  left  I  had  found  ajob  teaching  English  at  a  Chinese  college.  It  was  quite  a  while  before  I  recollected  that  old  ambition  to  be  an  opium  smoker.  SMOKE  As  a  newcomer,  I  couldn't  have  known  that  a  lot  of  the  drug  was  being  used  here,  there,  and  every-  where  in  town.  I  had  no  way  of  recognizing  the  smell,  though  it  per-  vaded  the  poorer  districts.  I  assumed  that  the  odor,  something  like  burning  caramel  or  those  herbal  cigarettes  smoked  by  asthmatics,  was  just  part  of  the  mysterious  effluvia  produced  in  Chinese  cookhouses.  Walking  happily  through  side  streets  and  alleys,  paus-  ing  here  and  there  to  let  a  rickshaw  or  a  cart  trundle  by,I  would  sniff  and  move  on,  unaware  that  someone  close  at  hand  was  indulging  in  what  the  books  called  that  vile,  accursed  drug.  Naturally  I  never  saw  a  culprit,  since  even  in  permissive  4368696e61  opium  smoking  was  supposed  to  be  illegal.  It  was  through  a  Chinese  friend,  Pan  Heh-ven,  that  I  learned  at  last  what  the  smell  denoted.  I  had  been  at  a  dinner  party  in  a  restaurant  with  him,  and  had  met  a  number  of  his  friends  who  were  poets  and  teachers.  Parties  at  restaurants  in  4368696e61  used  to  end  when  the  last  dish  and  the  rice  were  cold  and  the  guests  had  drunk  their  farewell  cup  of  tea  at  a  clean  table.  That  night,  though,  the  group  still  had  a  lot  to  say  after  that-they  always  did-and  we  stood  around  on  the  pavement  out-  side  carrying  on  a  discussion  of  modern  literature  that  had  started  at  table.  We  were  in  that  part  of  town  called  the  Chinese  city,  across  Soochow  Creek,  outside  the  boundaries  of  the  foreign  concessions.  It  was  hot.  A  crumpled  old  paper  made  a  scraping  little  sound  like  autumn  leaves  along  the  gutter,  and  the  skirts  of  the  men's  long  gowns  stirred  in  the  same  wind.  During  din-  ner,  they  had  spoken  English  out  of  courtesy,  but  now,  in  their  excite-  ment,  they  had  long  since  switched  to  the  Chinese  language,  and  I  stood  there  waiting  for  somebody  to  remem-  ber  me  and  help  me  find  a  taxi,  until  Heh-ven  said,  &quot;Oh,  excuse  us  for  for-  getting  our  foreign  guest.  We  are  all  going  now  to  my  house.  Will  you  come?&quot;  Of  course  I  would.  I'd  been  curious  about  his  domestic  life,  which  he  seldom  mentioned.  So  we  all  moved  off  and  walked  to  the  house-an  old  one  of  Victorian  style,  with  more  grounds  than  I  was  used  to  seeing  around  city  houses  in  [REDACTED].  I  say  Victorian,  but  that  was  only  from  the  outside,  where  gables  and  a  roughcast  front  made  it  look  like  the  kind  of  building  I     35  knew.  Indoors  was  very  different.  It  was  bare,  as  one  could  see  at  a  glance  because  the  doors  stood  open  between  rooms-no  carpets,  no  wallpaper,  very  little  furniture.  Such  chairs  and  sofas  and  tables  as  stood  around  the  bare  floor  seemed  as  impersonal  as  lost  articlesin  a  vacant  shop.  Yet  the  house  wasn't  de-  serted.  A  few  people  were  there  in  the  rooms-a  man  who  lounged,  as  if  de-  fiantly,  on  the  unyielding  curve  of  a  sofa,  four  or  five  children  scampering  and  giggling  in  whispers,  an  old  woman  in  the  blue  blouse  and  trousers  of  a  servant,  and  a  young  woman  in  a  plain  dark  dress.  This  last,  it  appeared,  was  Heh-ven's  wife,  and  at  least  some  of  the  children  were  theirs.  I  was  embarrassed  because  the  whole  household  gawked  at  me;  one  small  boy  who  looked  like  a  minia-  ture  Heh-ven  said  something  that  made  the  others  giggle  louder.  Heh-ven  spoke  briefly  to  his  family  and  told  us  to  fol-  low  him  upstairs,  where  we  emerged  on  a  cozier  scene.  Here  the  rooms  were  papered,  and  though  everything  still  seemed  stark  to  my  Western  eyes,  there  was  more  furniture  around.  We  trooped  into  a  bedroom  where  two  hard,  flat  couches  had  been  pushed  to-  gether,  heads  against  a  wall  and  a  heap  of  small  pillows  on  each.  In  the  center  of  the  square  expanse  of  white  sheet  that  covered  them  was  a  tray  that  held  several  unfamiliar  objects-a  little  silver  oil  lamp  with  a  shade  like  an  in-  verted  glass  tumbler,  small  boxes,  and  a  number  of  other  small  things  I  didn't  recognize.  I  sat  on  a  stiff,  spindly  chair,  and  the  men  disposed  themselves  here  and  there  in  the  room,  very  much  at  home  as  they  chat-  tered  away,  picked  up  books  and  riffled  through  them,  and  paid  no  attention  to  what  was  going  on  on  the  double  couch.  I  found  the  proceedings  there  very  odd,  however,  and  stared  in  fas-  cination.  Heh-ven  had  lain  down  on  his  left  side,  alongside  the  tray  and  facing  it.  He  lit  the  lamp.  One  of  his  friends,  a  plump  litle  man  named  Hua-ching,  lay  on  his  right  side  on  the  other  side  of  the  tray,  facing  Heh-ven,  each  with  head  and  shoulders  propped  on  the  pillows.  Heh-ven  never  stopped  convers-  ing,  but  his  hands  were  busy  and  his  eyes  were  fixed  on  what  he  was  doing-knitting,  I  thought  at  first,  wondering  why  nobody  had  ever  men-  tioned  that  this  craft  was  practiced  by  Chinese  men.  Then  I  saw  that  what  I  had  taken  for  yarn  between  the  two  needles  he  manipulated  was  actually  a  " b"  kind  of  gummy  stuff,  dark  and  thick.  As  he  rotated  the  needle  ends  about  each  other,  the  stuff  behaved  like  taffy  in  the  act  of  setting;  it  changed  color,  too,  slowly  evolving  from  its  earlier  dark  brown  to  tan.  At  a  certain  mo-  ment,  just  as  it  seemed  about  to  stiffen,  he  wrapped  the  whole  wad  around  one  needle  end  and  picked  up  a  pottery  ob-  ject  about  as  big  around  as  a  teacup.  It  looked  rather  like  acup,  except  that  it  was  closed  across  the  top,  with  a  rimmed  hole  in  the  middle  of  this  fixed  lid.  Heh-ven  plunged  the  wadded  nee-  dle  into  this  hole,  withdrew  it,  leaving  the  wad  sticking  up  from  the  hole,  and  modelled  the  rapidly  hardening  stuff  so  that  it  sat  on  the  cup  like  a  tiny  volcano.  He  then  picked  up  a  piece  of  polished  bamboo  that  had  a  large  hole  near  one  end,  edged  with  a  band  of  chased  silver.  Into  this  he  fixed  the  cup,  put  the  opposite  end  of  the  bamboo  into  his  mouth,  held  the  cup  with  the  tiny  cone  suspended  above  the  lamp  flame,  and  inhaled  deeply.  The  stuff  bubbled  and  evaporated  as  he  did  so,  until  nothing  of  it  was  left.  A  blue  smoke  rose  from  his  mouth,  and  the  air  was  suddenly  full  of  that  smell  I  had  encountered  in  the  streets  of  4368696e61.  Truth  lit  up  in  my  mind.  \xc2\xabYou're  smoking  opium!&quot;  I  cried.  Everybody  jumped,  for  they  had  for-  gotten  I  was  there.  Heh-ven  said,  &quot;Yes,  of  course  I  am.  Haven't  you  ever  seen  it  done  before?&quot;  &quot;No.  I'm  so  interested.&quot;  &quot;Would  you  like  to  try  it?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes.&quot;  Nobody  protested,  or  acted  shocked  or  anything.  In  fact,  nobody  but  Hua-  ching  paid  any  attention.  At  Heh-ven's  request,  he  smoked  a  pipe  to  demon-  strate  how  it  was  done,  then  relaxed  against  the  pillows  for  a  few  minutes.  &quot;If  you  get  up  immediately,  you  are   dizzy,&quot;  explained  Heh-ven,  I  observed  his  technique  carefully  and,  by  the  time  I  took  my  place  on  the  couch,  had  a  reasonable  notion  of  how  it  was  done.  You  sucked  in  as  deeply  as  possible,  and  held  the  smoke  there  as  long  as  you  could  before  exhaling.  Remembering  that  I'd  never  been  able  to  inhale  ciga-  rette  smoke,  I  was  worried  that  the  world  of  the  opium  addict  might  be  closed  to  me.  In  daydreams,  as  in  night  dreams,  one  doesn't  take  into  ac-  count  the  real  self  and  the  failings  of  the  flesh.  The  romantic  is  always  being  confronted  by  this  dilemma,  but  that  night  I  was  spared  it.  When  I  breathed  in  I  felt  almost  sick,  but  my  throat  didn't  close,  and  after  a  moment  I  was  fine.  I  couldn't  dispose  of  the  tiny  vol-  cano  all  in  one  mighty  pull,  as  the  oth-  ers  had  done,  but  for  a  beginner  I  didn't  do  badly-not  at  all.  Absorbed  in  the  triumph  of  not  coughing,  I  failed  to  take  notice  of  the  first  effects,  and  even  started  to  stand  up,  but  Heh-  ven  told  me  not  to.  &quot;Just  stay  quiet  and  leds  talk,&quot;  he  suggested.  We  all  talked-about  books,  and  books,  and  Chinese  politics.  That  I  knew  nothing  about  politics  didn't  put  me  off  in  the  least.  I  listened  with  keen  interest  to  everything  the  others  had  to  say  in  English,  and  when  they  branched  off  into  Chinese  I  didn't  mind.  It  left  me  to  my  thoughts.  I  wouldn't  have  minded  anything.  The  world  was  fascinating  and  benevolent  as  I  lay  there  against  the  cushions,  watching  Heh-ven  rolling  pipes  for  himself.  Pipes-that's  what  they  called  the  little  cones  as  well  as  the  tube,  I  sup-  pose  because  itis  easier  to  say  than  pipefuls.  Anyway,  the  word  &quot;pipeful&quot;  is  not  really  accurate,  either.  Only  once,  when  Hua-ching  asked  me  how  I  was,  did  I  recollect  the  full  significance  of  the  situation.  Good  heavens,  I  was  smok-     FEBRUARY  15,  1969  ing  opium!  It  was  hard  to  believe,  es-  pecially  as  I  didn't  seem  to  be  any  different.  &quot;I  don't  feel  a  thing,&quot;  Itold  him.  &quot;I  mean,  I'm  enjoying  myself  with  all  of  you,  of  course,  but  I  don't  feel  any  different.  Perhaps  opium  has  no  effect  on  me?&quot;  Heh-ven  pulled  at  the  tiny  beard  he  wore  and  smiled  slightly.  He  said,  &quot;Look  at  your  watch.&quot;  I  cried  out  in  surprise;  it  was  three  o'clock  in  the  morning.  &quot;Well,  there  it  is,&quot;  Heh-ven  said.  &quot;And  you  have  stayed  in  one  positior  for  several  hours,  you  know-you  haven't  moved  your  arms  or  your  head.  That's  opium.  We  call  it  Ta  Yen,  the  Big  Smoke.&quot;  &quot;But  it  was  only  one  pipeI  had.  And  look  at  you,  you've  smoked  four  or  five,  but  you're  still  all  right.&quot;  'That's  opium,  too,&quot;  said  Heh-ven  cryptically.  ETER  that  morning,  in  my  own  bed,  I  tried  to  remember  if  Pd  had  drug-sodden  dreams,  but  as  far  as  I  could  recall  there  hadn't  been  dreams  at  all,  which  was  disappointing.  I  didn't  feel  any  craving,  either.  I  simply  wasn't  an  addict.  I  almost  decided  that  the  whole  thing  was  just  a  carefully  nur-  tured  mytn.  Still,  I  gave  it  another  chance  a  few  days  later,  and  again  a  third  time,  and  so  on.  To  make  a  sur-  prisingly  long  story  short,  a  year  of  earnest  endeavor  went  by.  It's  impossi-  ble  now  to  pinpoint  the  moment  in  time  when  I  could  honestly  claim  to  be  an  addict,  but  I  do  remember  the  evening  when  Heh-ven's  wife,  Pei-yu,  said  I  was.  I  had  arrived  at  their  house  about  six  in  the  evening,  when  most  of  the  family  was  in  the  smoking  room.  It  was  a  nice  domestic  scene,  the  chil-  dren  playing  on  the  floor,  Pei-yu  sit-  ting  on  the  edge  of  the  couch  really  knitting,  with  wool,  and  Heh-ven  lying  on  his  side  in  the  familiar  position,  idly  stocking  up  opium  pellets  to  save  time  later,  now  and  then  rolling  a  wad  on  his  second  finger  to  test  the  texture.  A  good  pellet  should  be  of  just  theright  color,  and  not  too  dry,  but  not  too  sticky,  either.  These  refinements  added  a  lot  to  one's  pleasure.  I  suppose  people  who  are  fussy  about  their  tea  have  the  same  impulse.  I  was  feeling  awful  that  evening.  I  had  a  cold  and  I'd  been  up  too  late  the  night  before.  I  was  also  in  a  tearing  rage  with  Heh-ven.  By  this  time,  I  was  publishing  a  Chinese-English  magazine  at  a  press  he  owned  in  the  Chinese  city-or,  rather,  I  was  trying  to  publish  it,  and  Heh-ven  was  maddeningly  un-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  businesslike  about  the  printing.  That  day,  I'd  waited  at  home  in  vain  for  hours  because  he  had  faithfully  prom-  ised  that  some  proofs  would  be  deliv-  ered  before  three  o'clock.  When  I  marched  in  on  the  peaceful  scene  in  the  smoking  room,  only  a  fit  of  sneezing  prevented  my  delivering  him  a  stinging  scolding.  At  the  sound  of  the  sneezes,  Pei-yulooked  up  at  me  sharply.  Then  she  started  scolding  Heh-ven.  I  hadn't  learned  any  of  the  4368696e61  dialect-it  was  Mandarin  I  was  studying-but  the  spirit  of  her  speech  was  clear  enough.  &quot;Pei-yu  says  you  are  an  addict  and  it's  my  fault,&quot;  interpreted  Heh-ven  cheerfully.  I  felt  rather  flattered,  but  my  feel-  ings  about  Heh-ven's  lack  of  perform-  ance  on  the  press  made  me  sound  surly  as  I  replied,  &quot;Why  should  she  say  that?&quot;  I  lay  down  in  the  accustomed  place  as  I  spoke,  and  reached  for  the  pipe.  &quot;Because  your  eyes  and  nose  are  running.&quot;  &quot;So?  Is  that  a  symptom?&quot;  I  looked  at  Pei-yu,  who  nodded  hard.  I  inhaled  a  pipe  and  continued,  &quot;But  that  isn't  why  my  nose  is  running.  I've  got  the  most  awful  cold.&quot;  &quot;Oh  yes,  opium  smokers  always  have  colds.&quot;  Heh-ven  prepared  another  pipe.  &quot;When  you  don't  get  the  Big  Smoke,  you  weep.  Still,  in  your  case,  I  think  my  wife  is  mistaken.  You  are  not  yet  an  addict.  Even  I  am  not  an  addict,  really-not  very  much  addicted,  though  I  smoke  more  than  you.  People  like  us,  who  have  so  much  to  do,  are  not  the  type  to  become  addicted.&quot;  No,  I  reflected,  Pei-yu  was  certain,  ly  exaggerating  to  a  ridiculous  degree.  Of  course  I  could  do  without  it.  I  liked  it,  of  course-I  liked  it.  I  had  learned  what  was  so  pleasant  about  opium.  Gone  were  the  old  romantic  notions  of  wild  drug  orgies  and  heavily  flavored  dreams,  but  I  didn't  regret  them,  because  the  truth  was  much  bet-  ter.  To  lie  in  a  quiet  room  talking  and  smoking-or,  to  put  things  in  their  proper  order,  smoking  and  talking-  was  delightfully  restful  and  pleasant.  I  wasn't  addicted,  Itold  myself,  but  you  had  to  have  a  bit  of  a  habit  to  ap-  preciate  the  thing.  One  used  a  good  deal  of  time  smoking,  but,  after  all,  one  had  a  good  deal  of  time.  The  night  clubs,  the  cocktail  and  dinner  parties  beloved  of  foreign  residents  in  Shang  hai  would  have  palled  on  me  even  if  I'd  kept  up  drink  for  drink  with  my  companions.  Now  I  hardly  ever  bothered  to  go  to  these  gatherings.  Opium  put  me  off  drinking,  and  peo-  ple  who  didn't  smoke  seemed  more  and  more  remote,  whereas  smokers  always  seemed  to  have  tastes  and  ideas  com-  patible  with  mine.  We  would  read  aloud  to  each  other  a  good  deal-poetry,  most-  ly.  Reading  and  music  and  painting  were  enough  to  keep  us  happy.  We  didn't  care  for  eating  or  drinking  or  voluptuous  pleasures.  ...  I  seem  to  fall  into  a  kind  of  fin-de-sf\xc3\xa9cle  lan-  guage  when  I  talk  about  opium,  prob-  ably  because  it  was  rather  a  fin-de-  siecle  life  I  led  when  I  was  smoking  it,  and  in  a  social  as  well  as  a  literary  sense.  The  modern,  Westernized  Chinese  of  4368696e61  frowned  on  smoking-not  on  moral  grounds  but  because  it  was  considered  so  lamentably  old-fashioned.  My  friends,  in  their  traditional  long  gowns,  were  deliberately,  self-con-  sciously  reactionary,  and  opium  was  a      part  of  this  attitude,  whereas  modern  people  preferred  to  stun  themselves  with  whiskey  or  brandy.  Opium  was  decadent.  Opium  was  for  grandfathers.  We  used  to  read  Cocteau's  bookon  opium  and  discuss  it.  Hua-ching  loved  the  drawings  that  represent  the  feelings  of  a  man  under  cure,  in  which  the  pipe  grows  progressively  larger  and  the  man  smaller.  Then  the  pipe  prolifer-  ates-his  limbs  turn  into  pipes-until  at  last  he  is  built  up  completely  of  pipes.  During  such  talks,  Heh-ven  sometimes  spoke  of  himself  frankly  as  an  addict  but  at  other  times  he  still  said  he  wasn't.  I  never  knew  what  sort  of  statement  he  was  going  to  make  on  the  subject.  &quot;My  asthma  caused  it,  you  know,&quot;  he  said  once.  &quot;My  father  is  asthmatic,  so  he  smokes.  I,  too,  am  asthmatic,  and  " b"is  Pei-yu.  Now  and  then,  when  hers  is  very  bad,  she  will  take  a  pipe,  because  it  is  a  good  medicine  for  that  disease.&quot;  One  day,  after  he  had  been  even  more  contradictory  than  was  his  cus-  tom,  I  drew  up  a  table  of  the  smoker's  creed:  1.  I  will  never  be  an  addict.  2.  I  can't  become  addicted.  I  am  one  of  those  people  who  take  it  or  let  it  alone.  3.  I'm  not  badly  addlcted  4.  It's  a  matter  of  will  power,  and  I  can  stop  any  time.  NY  time.  Time.  That  was  some-  thing  that  had  lost  its  grip  on  me.  It  was  amazing  how  watches  varied  their  rateof  running,  sometimes  gal-  loping,  at  other  times  standing  still.  To  keep  up  with  my  job,  I  had  to  look  at  my  watch  often;  it  had  a  trick  of  running  away  when  I  didn't  notice,  causing  me  to  forget  dates  or  ar-  rive  at  appointments  incredibly  late.  I  appeared  sleepy.  I  know  this  from  what  outsiders  told  me  about  myself--  &quot;You  need  sleep,&quot;  they  would  say-  but  I  never  felt  sleepy,  exactly;  inside,  my  mind  was  unusually  clear,  and  I  could  spend  a  whole  night  talking  without  feeling  the  need  of  rest.  This  was  because  I  was  an  addict.  I  admitted  it  now,  and  was  pleased  that  I  could  feel  detached.  We  opium  smokers,  I  reflected,  are  detached,  and  that  is  one  of  our  advantages.  We  aren't  troubled  with  unpleasant  emotions.  The  alco-  holic  indulges  in  great  bouts  of  weep-  ing  sentiment,  but  the  smoker  doesn't.  You  never  find  a  smoker  blubbering  and  blabbing  his  secrets  to  the  opium  seller.  We  are  proud  and  reserved.  Other  people  might  think  us  drowsy  and  dull;  we  know  better.  The  first  reaction  to  a  good  long  pull  at  the  pipe  is  a  stimulating  one.  I  would  be  full  of  ideas,  and  as  I  lay  there  I  would  make  plans  for  all  sorts  of  activity.  Drowsi-  ness  of  a  sort  came  on  later,  but  even  then,  inside  my  head,  behind  my  droop-  ing  eyes,  my  mind  seethed  with  ex-  citing  thoughts.  Still,  I  couldn't  ignore  the  disadvan-  tages.  If  I  had,  I  would  have  been  unworthy  of  the  adjective  &quot;detached.&quot;  Being  an  addict  was  awfully  incon-  venient.  I  couldn't  stay  away  from  my  opium  tray,  or  Heh-ven's,  without  be-     ginning  to  feel  homesick.  I  would  think  of  the  lamp  in  the  shaded  room,  the  coziness,  the  peace  and  comfort  with  great  longing.  Then  my  nose  would  start  to  run  and  I  was  afraid  somebody  from  outside  would  have  the  sense  to  understand  whatwas  the  matter  with  me.  When  I  say  afraid,  that  is  what  I  mean-for  some  reason,  there  was  dread  in  the  idea  of  being  spotted.  This  was  strange.  True,  smoking  was  against  the  law  in  Shang-  hai,  but  only  mild  penalties  were  likely  to  have  been  visited  on  me.  Still,  I  was  afraid.  I  think  it  may  have  been  a  physical  symptom,  like  the  running  nose.  All  of  these  little  points  we  discussed  at  great  length,  lying  around  the  tray.  Hua-chinghad  a  theory  that  addiction  lay  not  so  much  in  the  smoking  itself  as  in  the  time  pattern  one  got  used  to.  &quot;If  you  vary  your  smoking  every  day,  you  have  far  less  strong  a  habit,&quot;  he  as-  sured  us  earnestly.  &quot;The  great  mistake  is  to  do  it  at  the  same  hour  day  after  day.  I'm  careful  to  vary  my  smoking  times.  You  see,  it's  all  in  the  head.&quot;  Jan,  a  Polish  friend  who  sometimes  joined  us,  disputed  this.  &quot;It's  the  drug  itself,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;If  it's  all  in  the  head,  why  do  I  feel  it  in  my  body?&quot;  The  argument  tailed  off  in  a  welter  of  defi-  " b"nitions.  A  smoker  loves  se-  mantics.  However,  I  re-  solved  one  day  to  test  myself  and  see  who  was  master,  opium  or  me,  and  I  accepted  an  invitation  to  spend  the  weekend  on  a  houseboat  up-  river  with  an  English  group.  In  the  country,  among  for-  eigners,  it  would  be  impossi-  ble  to  get  opium.  Well,  it  wasn't  as  bad  as  I'd  expected.  I  was  bored,  and  I  couldn't  keep  my  mind  on  the  bridge  they  insisted  that  I  play,  but  then  I  never  can.  I  had  an  awful  cold,  and  didn't  sleep  much.  My  stomach  was  upset  and  my  legs  hurt.  Still,  it  wasn't  so  bad.  I  didn't  want  to  lie  down  and  scream-it  could  be  borne.  On  the  way  home,  my  cold  got  rapidly  worse-  but  why  not?  People  do  catch  cold.  The  only  really  bad  thing  was  the  terror  I  felt  of  being  lost,  astray,  naked,  shivering  in  a  world  that  seemed  imminently  bru-  tal.  ...  Halfan  hour  after  I  got  back,  I  was  at  Heh-  ven's,  the  cronies  listening  to  my  blow-by-blow  report,  ex-  pressing,  according  to  their  characters,  admiration,  skep-  ticism,  or  envy.  I  was  glad  that  none  of  them  failed  to  understand  my  impulse  to  flee  the  habit.  Every  one  of  them,  it  seemed,  had  had  such  moments,  but  not  everyone  was  as  stubborn  as  I.  &quot;You  could  have  given  her  pills,&quot;  said  Hua-ching  reproachfully  to  Heh-  ven.  I  asked  what  he  meant,  and  he  said  that  addicts  who  had  to  leave  the  orbit  of  the  lamp  for  a  while  usually  took  along  little  pellets  of  opium  to  swallow  when  things  got  bad.  A  pellet  wasn't  the  same  thing  as  smoking,  but  it  alleviated  some  of  the  discomfort.  Heh-ven  said,  &quot;I  didn't  give  them  on  purpose.  She  wanted  to  see  what  it  was  like,  and  the  pills  would  have  spoiled  the  full  effect.  Besides,  they  are  some-  what  poisonous.  Still,  if  she  wants  them,  next  time  she  can  have  them.&quot;  Snuggling  luxuriously  on  a  pillow,  I  said,  &quot;There  won't  be  a  next  time.&quot;  G  y  2  Z  Z  ~  #  a  OME  weeks  later,  I  got  sick.  I  must  have  smoked  too  much.  In  a  rela-  tively  mild  case  of  overindulgence,  one  merely  gets  nightmares,  but  this  wasn't  mild.  I  vomited  on  the  way  home  from  Heh-ven's,  and  went  on  doing  it  when  I  got  in,  until  the  houseboy  called  the  doctor.  This  doctor  was  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  who  had  worked  for  years  in  the  com-  munity,  but  I  didn't  know  him  well.  Of  course,  I  had  no  intention  of  telling  him  what  might  be  wrong,  and  I  was  silent  as  he  felt  my  pulse  and  looked  at  my  tongue  and  took  my  temperature.  Finally,  he  delivered  judgment.  &quot;Jaun-  dice.  Haven't  you  noticed  that  you're  yellow?&quot;  (KN0.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Well,  you  are-yellow  as  an  orange,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;How  many  pipes  do  you  smoke  in  a  day?&quot;  I  was  startled,  but  if  he  could  play  it  calm,  so  could  I.  &quot;Oh,  ten,  eleven,  something  like  that,&quot;  I  said  airily,  and  he  noddedand  wrote  outa  prescrip-  tion,  and  left.  No  lecture,  no  phone  call  to  the  police,  nothing.  I  ought  to  have  appreciated  his  forbearance,  but  I  was  angry,  and  said  to  Heh-ven  next  day,  &quot;He  doesn't  know  as  much  as  he  thinks  he  does.  People  don't  count  pipes-one  man's  pipe  might  make  two  of  another's.&quot;  The  truth  was  that  I  resented  the  doctor's  having  stuck  his  @foot  in  the  door  of  my  exclusive  domain.  All  in  all,  if  I'd  been  asked  how  I  was  faring  I  would  have  said  I  was  getting  on  fine.  I  had  no  desire  to  change  the  way  I  was  living.  Except  forthe  doctor,  foreign  outsiders  didn't  seem  to  guess  about  me;  they  must  have  thought  I  looked  sallow,  and  cer-  tainly  they  would  have  put  me  down  as  absentminded,  but  nobody  guessed.  The  Chinese,  of  course,  were  differ-  ent,  because  they'd  seen  it  all  before.  I  annoyed  one  or  two  people,  but  I  managed  to  pass,  especially  when  the  war  between  4368696e61  and  4a6170616e  flared  up  just  outside  the  foreign-occupied  part  of  the  city.  Shells  fell  all  around  our  little  island  of  safety,  and  some-  times  missed  their  mark  and  bounced  inside  it.  It  is  no  wonder  that  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  doctor  didn't  take  any  steps  about  me-he  had  a  lot  of  other  things  to  occupy  his  mind.  The  war  didn't  bother  me  too  much.  I  soon  got  used  to  the  ideaof  it.  Opium  went  up  in  price-that  was  all  that  mattered.  But  the  war  cut  me  off  definitely  " b"40  from  the  old  world,  and  so,  little  by  little,  I  stopped  caring  who  knew  or  didn't  know.  People  who  came  calling,  even  when  they  weren't  smokers,  were  shown  straight  into  the  room  where  I  smoked.  I  now  behaved  very  much  like  Heh-ven;  there  was  even  an  oily  smudge  on  my  left  forefinger,  like  the  one  on  his,  that  wouldn't  easily  wash  off.  It  came  from  testing  opium  pellets  as  they  cooled.  Heh-ven,  amused  by  the  smudge,  used  to  call  the  attention  of  friends  to  it.  &quot;Look,&quot;  he  would  say,  &quot;have  you  ever  before  seen  a  white  girl  with  that  mark  on  her  finger?&quot;  I  wasn't  the  only  foreign  opium  smoker  in  4368696e61.  Apart  from  Jan,  there  were  several  others  I  knew.  One  was  connected  with  the  French  diplo-  matic  service.  He  and  his  wife  had  picked  up  their  habit  in  Indo-4368696e61.  It  was  through  them  that  I  met  Bobby-  a  German  refugee,  a  doctor  who  had  built  up  enough  of  a  practice  in  Shang-  hai  to  live  on  it.  He  wasn't  an  addict-  I  don't  think  I  ever  saw  him  touch  a  pipe-but  he  seemed  to  spend  a  lot  of  time  with  addicts.  Sometimes  I  won-  dered  why  he  dropped  in  at  Heh-ven's  so  often.  I  rather  wished  he  wouldn't,  because  he  was  dull.  Still,  it  didn't  matter  much  whether  outsiders  were  dull  or  bright,  and  as  he  happened  to  call  on  me  one  afternoon  when  I  had  received  a  shattering  letter,  I  confided  in  him.  &quot;It's  about  this  silly  magazine  I've  been  publishing,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;They  want  to  expand  its  circulation-the  people  who  own  it,  that  is-and  they  say  I've  got  to  go  to  Chungking  to  talk  to  them.&quot;  &quot;And  you  can't  go,  of  course,&quot;  said  Bobby.  &quot;I  can,  too,&quot;  I  lifted  myself  up  on  my  elbow  and  spoke  in-  dignantly.  &quot;Certainly  I  can  go.  What  do  you  mean,  I  can't?  Only,  it's  a  bother.&quot;  I  lay  down  again  and  started  rolling  a  pellet  fast.  My  mind  buzzed  with  all  the  things  that  would  have  to  be  done-arranging  about  my  house,  getting  a  permit  to  travel.  And  I'd  have  to  go  through  Hong  [REDACTED],  tak-  ing  aboat  down  there  and  then  flying  inland.  It  was  tiring  just  to  think  about  it,  and  here  was  Bobby  talking  again.  &quot;Listen  to  me.  Listen  carefully.  You  can't  do  it-youw  can't.&quot;  This  time  he  managed  to  worry  me.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Because  of  the  opium.  Your  habit,&quot;  said  Bobby.  I  laughed.  &quot;Oh,  that's  what  it  is,  is  it?&quot;  No,  that'll  be  all  right.&quot;  The  pellet  was  ready,  shaped  into  a  cone,  and  I     smoked  it,  then  said,  &quot;I  can  s  top  wheneve  r  I  want  to.  You  don't  know  me  well,  but  I  a  ssure  you  I  can  stop  any  time.&quot;  &quot;How  recently  have  you  tried?&quot;  he  demanded,  and  paused.  I  didn't  reply  because  I  was  tryin  g  to  reckon  it.  He  went  on,  &quot;It's  been  some  time,  I'm  sure,  I'  ve  know  n  you  myself  for  a  year,  and  you've  never  stopped  during  that  p  eriod.  I  think  you'll  find  you  ca  n't  do  it,  yo  ung  lady.&quot;  &quot;You're  wrong,&quot;  I  said  v  iolently.  &quot;I  t  ell  you,  you're  all  wrong-you  don'  t  know  me.&quot;  &quot;An  d  in  the  interior  it's  not  so  fun-  ny  if  you're  caught  using  it,  you  k  now.  If  you're  caught,  you  know  wh  at  hap-  pens.&quot;  He  sliced  a  stiff  hand  across  his  throat.  He  meant  that  the  Kuomintang  had  put  a  new  la  w  into  effect;  people  they  cau  ght  smoking  were  to  b  e  decapi-  tated.  But  surely  that  couldn't  happen  to  me.  I  looked  at  him  with  new  uncertain-  ty  and  said,  &quot;What  will  I  do?&quot;  &quot;'You'll  be  all  right,  because  I  can  help  you,&quot;  said  Bobby,  all  of  a  sudden  brisk  and  cheerful.  &quot;You  can  be  cured  quite  easily.  Have  you  heard  of  hypno-  sis?&quot;  I  sa  id  that  of  course  I'd  heard  of  it,  and  even  witnessed  it.  &quot;  There  was  a  medical  st  udent  at  sc  hool  who  put  peo-  ple  to  sleep-just  made  them  stare  at  a  l  ight  bulb  and  told  them  they  were  sleepy.&quot;  B  obby  made  a  call  on  my  telephone,  talking  in  German.  He  hung  up  and  said,  &quot;We  sta  rt  tomorrow  morning.  I  h  ave  a  bed  for  yo  u  at  my  l  ittle  hospi  t  al-a  private  ward,  no  less.  Get  up  early  if  you  can  and  do  what  you  usually  d  o  in  the  morning-smoke  if  you  like,  I  have  no  objectio  ns-  but  be  there  at  nine  o  'clock.  I'll  w  rite  dow  n  the  d  irections  for  the  taxi-driv-  er.  &quot;  He  did  s  o.  Then,  at  the  d  oor,  he  ad  ded,  &quot;Heh-ven  will  try  to  talk  y  ou  out  of  i  t,  you  kn  ow.  Don't  let  him.&quot;  I  sai  d,  &quot;Oh  no,  Bobby,  he  wouldn't  do  th  at.  This  is  my  own  affair,  and  he'd  never  interfere.&quot;  &quot;Just  don't  let  him,  that's  all.  Don't  forget  a  suitcase  with  your  night  things.  You'll  probably  bring  s  ome  o  pium  pills,  but  if  you  do  I'll  find  them,  so  save  yourself  the  trouble.&quot;  Bef  ore  I  became  an  addict,  I  used  to  think  that  a  confirmed  smoker  would  be  frantically  afraid  of  the  idea  of  breaking  off.  Actually,  it  isn't  like  that-  or  wasn't  with  me.  At  a  certain  stage,  a  smoker  is  cheerfully  ready  to  accept  almost  any  suggestion,  including  the  one  of  breaking  off.  Stop  smoking?  Why,  of  course,  he  will  say-what  a  good  idea!  Let's  start  tomorrow.  After  a  couple  of  pipes,  I  was  very  pleased  about  it,  and  rang  up  Heh-ven  to  tell  him.  He,  too,  was  pleased,  but  couldn't  see  why  I  was  in  such  a  hurry.  &quot;Oh,  wonderful!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  why  tomorrow?  If  you  wait,  we  can  do  it  together.  It's  always  easier  with  somebody  else.  Wait,  and  I'll  ask  Bobby  to  fix  me  up,  too.&quot;  &quot;I'd  like  to,  Heh-ven,  but  he's  got  everything  arranged  for  me  at  the  hos-  pital,  and  I  can  hardly  change  things  around  now.  And,  as  he  said,  I  haven't  got  much  time-only  a  couple  of  weeks  before  I  have  to  go  to  Chungking.  It'll  be  easier  when  your  turn  comes.&quot;  The  high  sweetness  in  his  voice  when  he  replied  was  significant,  I  knew,  of  anger.  &quot;Of  course,  since  you  are  so  happy  to  take  the  advice  of  a  man  you  hardly  know  ..  .&quot;  It  was  a  struggle,  but  I  hadn't  given  in  by  the  time  I  hung  up.  Full  of  opium  or  not,  I  knew  all  too  well  what  would  happen  if  I  consented  to  wait  for  Heh-ven  for  anything  at  all-a  tea  party  or  a  cure.  He'd  put  it  off  and  put  it  off  until  it  was  forgotten.  I  shrugged,  andhad  another  pipe,  and  next  morning  I  almost  overslept,  but  didn't.  The  old  man  who  took  care  of  the  house  carried  my  bag  out  to  the  taxi,  talking  to  himself,  and  stood  there  as  I  climbed  in,  a  worried  look  on  his  face.  He  didn't  trust  anything  about  the  project.  &quot;I  come  see  you  soon,&quot;  he  promised.  I  HAD  never  heard  of  Bobby's  hos  pital.  We  drove  a  long  way  through  the  shops  and  hovels  that  ringed  the  foreign  town,  so  that  I  half  expected  we  would  enter  the  4a6170616eese  lines,  but  before  we  got  that  far  we  found  it-a  building  about  as  big  as  most  middle-  class  4368696e61  houses  and  only  a  little  shabbier.  Over  the  entrance  hung  a  dirty  white  flag  with  a  red  cross  on  it.  Bobby  was  at  the  door,  his  teeth  gleaming  in  a  relieved  smile,  his  spec-  tacles  flashing  in  the  morning  sun.  Clearly,  he  hadn't  been  quite  sure  I  would  turn  up,  and  he  asked  how  Heh-ven  had  taken  the  news.  &quot;He  wants  you  to  fix  him  up,  too-  someday,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;Whenever  he's  ready.  Come  in  here.  The  nurse  will  look  after  your  suitcase.&quot;  I  followed  him  to  a  flimsily  walled  office  filled  with,  among  other  things,  filing  cases,  a  heavy  old  desk,  and  one  overstuffed  chair,  in  which  he  told  me  to  sit.  He  gave  me  a  pill,  and  a  tin  cup  of  water  to  help  it  down.  I  stared  " b" around  curiously.  'There  were  card-  board  boxes  piled  against  the  walls,  and  an  instrument  cabinet.  A  patch  of  sun-  light  lay  on  the  floor  matting.  The  room  was  very  hot.  Sweat  rolled  down  Bobby's  face.  Though  smokers  have  little  sense  of  smell,  I  could  distinguish  a  reck  of  disinfectant.  I  asked  what  kind  of  cases  the  hospital  cared  for,  and  Bobby  said  it  took  in  everything.  He  spoke  absently,  pacing  up  and  L  LJ  down,  waiting  for  the  pill  to  work  on  me.  I  said,  &quot;I  don't  see  why  you  need  to  use  a  pill.  The  medical  student  just  used  a  light  bulb.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  could  do  that,  too,  but  it  takes  too  long,&quot;  Bobby  retorted.  &quot;In  the  future,  I  want  to  cure  whole  room-  fuls  ofaddicts  all  at  once,  hypnotizing  them  in  groups,  and  how  far  do  you  think  I'd  get  if  Itriedto  put  each  one  under  by  makinghim  stare  at  a  light?  No,  barbiturates  are  quicker.  Aren't  you  sleepy  yet?&quot;  &quot;No.  Why  roomfuls  of  addicts?&quot;  He  explained.  There  were  far  too  many  for  one  man  to  cope  with  unless  he  employed  such  methods.  In  fact,  he  said,  my  case  was  being  used  to  that  end.  If  it  worked-and  it  was  going  to  work,  it  was  bound  to  work,  he  assured  me-  he  wanted  me  to  exert  all  the  influence  " b"42  I  might  have  to  persuade  the  authori-  ties  involved  to  hire  him  as  a  kind  of  National  Grand  Curer-in-Chief  of  opium  addiction.  He  talked  warmly  and  hopefully  of  these  plans,  until,  as  through  a  glass  brightly,  I  saw  a  schoolroom  full  of  white-cladChinese,  row  on  row,  all  exactly  alike,  with  their  faces  lifted  toward  Bobby  on  a  very  high  dais.  He  was  saying  .  ..  was  ...  &quot;Will  you  permit  me,  while  you  are  under,  to  make  a  little  psycho-  analysis  also?&quot;  He  really  was  saying  it,  and  to  me,  not  to  the  white-clad  Chinese.  I  stirred,  and  forced  my  tongue  to  answer.  &quot;Yes,  if  you'll  promise  to  tell  me  all  about  it  afterward.  Do  you  promise?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes.&quot;  He  was  pacing  again,  and  said  it  impatiently,  over  his  shoul-  der.  &quot;You  are  now  getting  sleepy.  You  will  sleep.  In  a  few  minutes  ...&quot;  It  was  less  than  a  few  minutes,  how-  ever,  before  I  felt  fully  awake  again,  and  sat  up,  saying  in  triumph,  &quot;Your  pill  didn't  work.&quot;  Bobby,  still  pacing,  was  now  rubbing  his  hands,  saying  over  and  over,  as  if  to  himself,  &quot;Very  interest-  ing,  ve-ry  interesting.&quot;  Suddenly  the  room  had  become  dark  again.  I  said,  &quot;It  didn't  work,&quot;  and  now  I  felt  disappointed.  All  those  preparations  had  been  wasted.  Bobby  came  to  a  halt  in  front  of  me.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  time  it  is?&quot;  he  asked.  Once  long  ago,  I  dim-  ly  recollected,  Heh-ven  had  asked  the  same  question.  But  Bobby  .  answered  himself.  &quot;It's  five  o'clock  in  the  aft-  ernoon,  and  you  went  under  before  ten  this  morning.&quot;  &quot;But  what's  been  going  on?&quot;  I  rubbed  my  forehead.  &quot;You've  been  talking  almost  the  whole  time.  I  stopped  for  lunch.&quot;  I  was  staggered,  but  Bobby  gave  me  no  time  to  discuss  the  strangeness  of  the  situ-  ation.  He  looked  at  me  intently  and  said,  &quot;Do  you  feel  any  desire  to  smoke?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  It  was  true  that  the  pic-  ture  of  the  tray  and  the  lighted  lamp  was  no  longer  there  in  the  middle  of  my  mind.  His  question,  in  fact,  surprised  me.  Why  should  I  want  to  smoke?  &quot;You  have  no  wish,  no  thought  of  wanting  it?&quot;  he  insisted,  and  again  I  shook  my  head.  Bobby  said,  &quot;Good.  You  will  go  to  bed  now,  and  eat  something  if  you  like.  For  tomorrow  I've  given  orders  that  you're  not  to  have  visitors.  That  will  be  best  for  a  little,  but  I'll  be  coming  in  later  tonight  to  check  up.&quot;  I  started  to  stand,  but  paused  as  a  sneeze  overtook  me.  &quot;I've  caught  cold,&quot;  I  declared.  &quot;Oh,  Bobby-the  analysis.  What  did  you  find  out?&quot;  &quot;You  are  very  interesting,&quot;  he  said  enthusiastically.  &quot;Here  is  Nurse  Wong  to  take  care  of  you.&quot;  He  walked  out.  Nurse  Wong  led  me  down  the  pas-  sage  as  fussily  as  a  tug  conveying  a  liner  to  its  berth.  She  showed  me  into  a  first-floor  room  with  an  army  cot  in  it,  with  whitewashed  walls  and  a  French  window  looking  out  on  a  wildly  over-  grown  garden.  The  bed  linen  was  worn  and  stained  with  rust.  Nurse  Wong  had  already  unpacked  my  things  and  hung  them  on  a  couple  of  nails      stuck  in  the  wall.  Of  course,  I  thought  drowsily  after  I  got  into  bed,  Chinese  don't  hang  up  their  clothes  but  fold  them  away  in  boxes....  Later,  a  sup-  per  tray  lay  on  my  chest.  I  had  no  desire  toeat  the  rice  covered  with  brown  goo,  and  after  a  while  it  was  taken  away.  Bobby  must  have  come  in  that  night,  but  I  don't  remember  him.  There  was  no  reason  why  I  should  have  been  so  sleepy,  I  told  myself  when  I  woke  up  in  the  small  hours.  I  wasn't  any  longer.  I  was  uncomfort-  able,  though  I  couldn't  say  just  where  the  discomfort  was.  Throat?  Arms?  Legs:  Stomach?  It  wandered  about.  The  only  place  it  seemed  to  settle  for  good  was  in  the  conscience.  I  felt  very  guilty  about  everything  in  the  world,  but  it  was  not  agony.  It  was  support-  able.  Still,  I  was  glad  when  the  sun  rose.  Jan  had  once  expressed  the  feel-  ing  of  opium  very  well,  I  reminded  myself;  he  had  a  bad  leg,  and  after  he'd  smoked  a  pipe  or  two  he'd  said,  &quot;The  pain  is  still  there,  but  it  no  longer  hurts.&quot;  Well,  I  said  to  myself,  that's  what's  happening.  The  pain  has  always  been  there,  and  now  it  hurts  again.  That  is  all.  It  is  support-  able.  It  is  supportable.  One  thing  helped  a  lot.  Never  through  the  week  that  was  worst  did  I  have  the  thought  that  I  would  feel  a  lot  better  if  only  I  could  get  to  a  pipe.  That  was  where  the  hypnotism  came  in,  I  realized.  Knowing  it,  however,  didn't  spoil  the  effect.  It  worked.  I  wasn't  locked  in  my  room,  and  there  was  no  guard  at  the  front  door.  If  I'd  wanted  to,  I  could  have  dressed  and  walked  out  and  gone  home,  or  to  Heh-  ven's,  but  I_  didn't  want  to.  Of  all  my  urges,  that  one  was  missing.  I  counted  the  days  after  which  Bob-  by  said  I  would  feel  better.  I  fidgeted  and  yawned  and  sneezed,  and  my  eyes  wept  tor-  rents,  and  my  watch  simply  refused  to  run,  but  I  never  tried  to  get  out  of  the  hospital.  For  a  while,  when-  ever  Bobby  came  and  I  tried  to  talk,  my  voice  quivered  and  I  wept.  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  &quot;Just  nerves.  I  can't  manage  words,&quot;  I  sobbed,  but  he  said  I  was  getting  on  fine.  He  added  that  he  realized  I  really  wanted  to  stop  smoking,  be-  cause  I  hadn't  brought  in  any  pills.  He  said  he  knew  that  because  he'd  searched  my  things  while  I  was  hyp-  notized.  The  night  after  he  said  that,  I  had  cramps.  Cramps  are  a  well-  known  withdrawal  symptom.  They  might  make  themselves  felt  anywhere  in  the  addict's  body,  but  most  people  get  them  in  the  arms-they  feel  as  if  all  the  bones  have  broken.  I  had  mine  in  the  legs,  all  the  way  up  to  the  hips,  and  at  four  in  the  morning  I  figured  out  that  this  was  because  I'd  had  to  wear  braces  on  my  legs  as  ababy.  I  had  never  been  able  to  remember  the  braces,  but  now,  I  said  to  myself,  my  legs  were  remembering.  Then,  as  if  I'd  pleased  the  gods  with  this  de-  cision,  I  actually  fell  asleep  for  a  full  hour.  It  was  probably  the  worst  night  of  all.  Bobby  let  a  few  friends  in  to  see  me  after  that.  I  could  go  out  into  the  over-  grown  garden  with  them  and  walk  a  little,  taking  shaky  steps  to  the  creek  where  ducks  swam,  and  then  we  would  drink  tea  under  a  tree.  They  helped  the  time  pass,  which  was  good,  because  without  distraction  it  dragged  terribly.  &quot;The  mortal  boredom  of  the  smoker  who  is  cured!&quot;  wrote  Cocteau.  Most  vivid  of  all,  though,  was  the  way  I  felt  about  the  bed.  Night  after  night,  I  had  to  lie  on  it  without  sleeping,  until  I  detested  it  with  a  bitter,  personal  spite.  I  hated  the  very  smell  of  the  mattress.  I  don't  suppose  it  was  really  bad,  be-  ing  kapok  and  nothing  else,  but  for  the  first  time  in  some  years  my  numbed  nose  was  working,  and  any  scent  would  have  had  an  unpleasant  effect  on  newly  sensitive  nerves.  To  me  the  mattress  stank,  and  it  was  lumpy,  besides.I  knew  every  lump.  I  resolved  to  settle  that  bed's  hash  as  soon  as  I  was  my  own  master.  One  morning,  I  asked  Bobby  what  it  would  cost  to  replace  it.  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know.  Twenty  dollars,  I  suppose.  Why?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  want  to  buy  this  one  when  I'm  through  with  it,  and  burn  it  in  the  gar-  den.  I  hate  it.&quot;  &quot;If  you  still  want  to  by  then,  you  may,&quot;  he  said  solemnly.  &quot;Heh-ven  tele-  phoned  me  today.&quot;  He  paused,  looking  at  me  with  a  cautious  expression.  &quot;It  is  not  the  first  time  he  has  tried  to  reach  you,&quot;  headded,  &quot;but  I  didn't  tell  you  before.  Now  I  think  I  can  trust  you  to  see  him.  He's  coming  this  afternoon.  In  fact,  he's  here  now.&quot;  &quot;Good.&quot;  I  must  have  sounded  indif-  ferent,  because  that  was  the  way  I  felt.   I'd  almost  forgotten  Heh-ven.  When  he  walked  in,  though,  I  remembered  how  well  I  knew  him,  and  how  many  hours  we'd  spent  smoking  together.  His  eyes  looked  cloudy,  I  observed,  and  his  teeth  were  dirty.  He  said,  &quot;I'm  taking  you  out.&quot;  Bobby  said  swiftly,  &quot;Only  for  a  drive,  remember,&quot;  and  looked  hard  at  him.  Heh-ven  laughed,  and  held  up  his  hand  reassuringly.  &quot;Certainly  I'll  bring  her  back.  I  do  not  want  your  patient,  Doctor.&quot;  &quot;You  are  not  going  to  smoke,&quot;  said  Bobby,  &quot;and  you  are  not  taking  her  anywhere  where  she  can  smoke.  Is  that  clearf&quot;  &quot;Perfectly  clear,&quot;  said  Heh-ven.  We  walked  out  the  front  door-  which  I  hadn't  gone  out  offor  a  week-and  into  his  car,  and  drove  away.  He  was  faithful  to  his  promise.  We  went  to  a  tearoom  and  sat  there  and  looked  at  each  other,  and  he  said,  &quot;You  look  all  right.  How  are  you?&quot;  &quot;I'm  all  right,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  Cocteau  was  telling  the  truth-you  know,  about  the  boredom.  Still,  I'm  glad  I  did  it.&quot;  I  was  warming  up,  though  Heh-ven  still  sounded  and  looked  like  a  stranger.  &quot;I  tried,  while  you  were  out  there,&quot;  he  admitted,  &quot;and  I  couldn't.  It  didn't  last  more  than  about  thirty-six  hours.  I  missed  the  lamp  most  of  all.  I  find  the  lamp  very  nice.&quot;  &quot;Well,  that's  easy,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;Just  light  it  and  lie  there.&quot;  We  both  giggled.  It  was  the  first  time  I'd  been  able  to  make  a  joke  about  opium.  Then  he  took  me  back  to  the  hospital.  His  eyes  when  he  said  goodbye  were  wet,  because  he  needed  his  tray.  I  felt  smug.  The  afternoon  I  was  formally  dis-  charged,  three  days  before  I  was  to  go  to  Chungking,  Bobby  said,  &quot;Well,  goodbye.  You're  free.  You're  all  right  now.  You  can  go  anywhere  you  like.  I  don't  want  any  pay,  but  remember-if  you  get  the  chance  to  convince  some  higher-up,  tell  him  my  method  is  effec-  tive.  You'll  do  that,  won't  you?'  I  would  like  to  have  that  job.&quot;  I  promised,  and  thanked  him,  and  we  shook  hands.  My  bag  was  packed,  and  a  car  waited  outside,  but  Ihesi-  tated.  &quot;There's  one  more  thing,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;The  analysis,  remember?  I've  asked  you  more  than  once,  but  you  haven't  told  me  what  you  found  out  the  day  you  did  it.&quot;  All  Bobby  said  was  &quot;Oh,  yes,  that.  Very  interesting.&quot;  What's  more,  I  forgot  all  about  burning  the  mattress.  "