  SHE  YVALKS  IN  BEAUTY-SINGLE  FILE,  EYES  FRONT,  AND  NO  HANKY~PANKY  [REDACTED]  afternoon  when  I  came  abreast  of  Whelp  &amp;  Cunliffe's  in  Conduit  Street  and,  as  was  increasing,  ly  my  habit,  paused  to  examine  their  famous  waterproof  shoe.  Whelp  &amp;  Cunliffe,  if  anybody  needs  to  be  re-  minded,  are  one  of  [REDACTED]'s  outstand-  ing  stockists  of  rainwear,  specializing  in  Inverness  capes,  riding  aprons  (as  ap-  proved  by  the  late  Earl  of  Lonsdale),  Newmarket  boots,  and  custom  leg-  gings.  For  the  past  four  years,  their  window  had  featured  a  man's  Scotch-  grain  brogue  sitting  in  a  shallow  pan  of  water  to  demonstrate  its  moisture-  repellent  qualities.  As  usual,  not  even  a  bead  of  humidity  shone  inside  the  shoe,  for  all  the  colonies  of  algae  on  the  water's  surface  and  the  penicillin  mold  encrusting  the  pan.  A  triumph  of  the  bootmaker's  art,  indisputably,  and  I  was  wondering  just  how  they  achieved  it-whether,  in  fact,  they  hadn't  chis-  elled  and  rung  in  a  few  virginal  shoes-  when  someone  clapped  me  familiarly  on  the  back.  Revolving,  I  beheld  a  young  squirt  in  a  Carnaby  Street  ver-  sion  of  a  military  greatcoat,  his  tem-  pestuous  inky  curls  surmounted  by  a  Dutch  bargee's  cap.  He  had  the  sly,  hateful  face  of  those  imps  in  Beards-  ley's  illustrations  for  &quot;Under  the  Hill,&quot;  and  I  knew  with  absolute  certainty  that  I  had  never  seen  him  before  in  my  life.  &quot;Comment  ca  va,  baby?&quot;  he  crowed.  &quot;Remember  me-Pierre  Flat-  ulin,  public  relations,  All-Gaul  Air-  lines?  We  met  in  Julie  New-  mar's  lobby  eight  yearsago.  No,  I'm  a  liar-it  was  nine  years.  Qu  est-ce  que  tu  fais  ici?&quot;  The  appropriate  answer-  that  I  was  minding  my  own  business-froze  on  my  chops,  and,  mumbling  some  evasion  about  salmon  fishing  north  of  the  Tweed,  I  made  off  toward  Regent  Street.  To  my  dismay,  he  ignored  the  snub,  linked  his  arm  in  mine,  and  skipped  along  with  me,  resisting  my  most  pointed  efforts  to  dislodge  him.  He  adored  walking  in  [REDACTED]-the  atmosphere  was  so  wif,  the  girls  such  goddesses-and  he'd  be  delighted  to  offer  any  advice  as  to  shopping  or  di-  rections.  Did  I  need  a  gift  for  friends  overseas,  like  perfumes  or  scarves?  He  had  a  connection  in  the  duty-free  area  at  [REDACTED],  a  porter  with  access  to  damaged  cartons,  who  for  a  slight  pourboire  ...Or  perhaps,  he  suggest-  ed  with  a  critical  glance,  I  might  like  to  have  my  hair  styled  in  a  more  be-  IT  was  nigh  on  dusk  that  autumnal  UM  coming  fashion;  a  mere  call  from  him  would  set  Vidal  Sassoon  athirstto  transform  me.  Clearly,  the  only  way  to  rid  oneself  of  an  incubus  was  to  feign  an  emergency,  and  with  a  plea  that  I  was  overdue  at  my  urologist's  I  fled  into  a  cab.  Undaunted,  he  thrust  a  large  en-  graved  card  through  the  window.  &quot;Tomorrow  night  at  the  Common-  wealth  Institute!&quot;  he  bawled  in  at  me.  &quot;A  marvellous  party-don't  miss  it!  My  airline's  annual  reception  for  the  Miss  Globe  contestants-sixty-six  beau-  tiful  girls  from  all  over  the  world!  Where  are  you  staying,  soI  can  remind  you?&quot;  I  threw  him  the  name  of  a  Turkish  bath  in  Jermyn  Street,  and  we  veered  away.  That  anything  short  of  a  cata-  clysm  would  impel  me  to  attend  an  out-and-out  leg  show  was,  of  course,  unimaginable,  but,  incredibly  enough,  events  on  the  evening  in  question  con-  spired  to.  Minutes  before  I  was  to  join  a  Welsh  couple  taking  me  to  an  eisteddfod  in  a  Nonconformist  chapel  in  Dorking,  I  received  word  that  a  gas  main  beneath  the  church  had  exploded  'and  reduced  the  place  to  matchwood.  Crestfallen  and  yet  in  a  measure  re-  lieved,  I  repaired  to  ahighly  touted  Indian  restaurant  and  to  an  equally  noxious  film  about  Swedish  inverts,  and  at  eight  o'clock  found  myself  rigid  with  despair  in  the  Tottenham  Court  Road.  The  thought  of  immuring  myself  in  a  hotel  room  with  the  biography  of  Prince  Metternich  I  had  bought  in  a  cultural  upsurge  was  so  odious  that  I  whim-  pered  in  self-pity.  At  that  in-  stant,  clenching  my  fists  in  my  pockets,  I  encountered  the  in-  vitation  Flatulin  had  forced  on  me.  Sixty-six  lovelies  from  as  many  lands-it  was  a  deliver-  ance,  a  miracle!  My  cheeks  flamed  in  anticipation  as  I  raced  toward  the  Com-  monwealth  Institute  in  [REDACTED].  The  raffish  turmoil  of  an  Atlantic  City  beauty  pageant  that  I  had  en-  visioned  soon  turned  out  to  be  a  chi-  mera.  Several  thousand  spectators  of  both  sexes,  the  majority  in  full  evening  kit  and  painfully  decorous,  were  massed  in  the  well  of  the  Institute-a  structure  resembling  a  surgical  amphitheatre-  sipping  champagne  and  rubbering  down  at  an  illuminated  dais.  At  periodic  in-  tervals,  the  threescore  and  six  claimants  to  the  beauty  crown,  each  wearing  a  chaste  ball  gown  and  a  fixed  paralytic  grin,  undulated  out  of  the  darkness,  performed  a  curtsy,  and  daintily  with-  drew.  The  whole  spectacle  was  so  sin-  gularly  bloodless,  so  devoid  of  ribaldry,  thatI  was  about  tofling  out,  cursing  Pierre  Flatulin  for  a  blackguard,  when  a  voice  on  the  P.A.  system  bade  us  join  the  contestants  for  a  buffet  supper  and  dancing.  Instinct  whispered  that  if  I  were  to  procure  food  and  wine  for  one  or  two  ofthe  hopefuls  my  gallantry  might  be  rewarded,  and  so  it  proved.  A  quarter  of  an  hour  later,  I  was  ensconced  in  an  alcove  with  three-  Miss  [REDACTED],  Miss436f6c6f6d626961,  and  Miss  [REDACTED]-all  of  whom  simpered  grati-  tude  for  my  attentions.  Our  prelimi-  nary  exchanges  were  marked  by  an  air  of  constraint;  eventually,  though,  Miss  [REDACTED]  finished  gnawing  on  a  chick-  en  wing,  wiped  her  fingers  on  her  locks,  and  asked  what  line  of  business  I  was  in.  I  replied  that  I  was  a  member  of  an  anti-caffeine  society  sworn  to  assassinate  El  Exigente.  There  was  an  abrupt  swish  of  taffeta  as  she  disap-  peared  into  the  throng,  and  her  col-  leagues  resumed  simpering  gratitude  for  my  attentions.  I  removed  a  shred  of  carrot  from  my  tie  and  cleared  my  throat.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  I  said,  addressing  Miss  Ice-  land,  &quot;I  recently  read  an  article  about  smoked  fish  or  something  that  would  have  fascinated  you-I  mean,  as  an  4963656c616e64er.  I  forget  what  it  said  or  just  where  it  appeared,  but  I  remember  how  groovy  it  seemed  at  the  time.  Did  you  happen  to  read  it?&quot;  She  shook  her  head,  but  my  query  reminded  her  that  she  had  promised  to  phone  her  mother  in  Reykjavik,  and,  with  a  demure  smile,  she  lumbered  off.  To  be  candid,  I  was  not  at  all  sorry,  as  the  last  of  the  trio  was  easily  the  comeliest.  A  bewitching  creature  whose  trim  black  bob  awoke  memories  of  the  immortal  Louise  Brooks,  Miss  [REDACTED]  was  dressed  as  befitted  her  ori-  gin  in  asimple  white  wool  chlamys  secured  at  the  shoulder  with  a  gold  lover's  knot,  and  such  was  the  purity,  the  calm  wisdom  of  her  demeanor  that  she  might  have  stepped  straight  off  a  Grecian  vase.  My  exultation,  how-  ever,  was  short-lived,  for  I  quickly  dis-  covered  that  we  shared  no  common  language.  I  tried  her  in  French  and  a  few  halting  fragments  of  Italian  and  German,  but  she  stared  at  me  without  a  glimmer  of  comprehension.  Sudden-  ly  I  had  a  magical,  heaven-sent  inspi-  ration-the  three  years  of  classical  Greek  through  which  I  had  been  keel-  hauled  in  high  school.  All  I  could  remember  was  a  single  orotund  line  from  the  [REDACTED],  but  anything  was  better  than  this  damnable  lockjaw.  I  arose  " b" and  drew  a  deep  breath.  &quot;Ton  Zapam\xc3\xa9  bomonos,&quot;  I  intoned  sonorously.  &quot;Pro-  seph\xc3\xa9  nephel\xc3\xa9gerat\xc3\xa9  Leus.&quot;  I  paused,  and  translated  helpfully,  &quot;'That  means  'Thus  spake  the  wine-dark,  cloud-  gathering  Zeus.  &quot;  &quot;Zeus?&quot;  she  repeated,  blinking.  &quot;Yis-yis!&quot;  I  confirmed,  slipping  into  pidgin  in  my  desperation  to  make  her  understand.  &quot;Him  wine-dark,  you  savvy?  Him  plenty  noisy  fella  with  the  thunderheads-ho,  ho!&quot;  Her  look  of  perplexity  slowly  changed  to  one  of  alarm,  and  she  made  a  furtive  movement  toward  her  hand-  bag.  In  a  last  frantic  effort  to  detain  her,  I  recalled  another  possibility-the  two  semesters  I  had  spent  retracing  Xenophon's  &quot;Anabasis.&quot;  I  grabbed  her  arm.  &quot;'The  following  day,  we  ad-  vanced  twelve  parasangs,'  &quot;  I  bleated.  &quot;''The  Thessalonians  were  drawn  up  in  a  phalanx,  with  the  archers  in  front  ...  the  archers  in  front.  ..  .J&quot;  I  was  still  fluthering  away  about  the  archers  and  Miss  [REDACTED]  was  undoubt-  edly  halfway  back  to  Igoumenitsa  when  a  fist  smote  me  between  the  shoulder  blades.  Pierre  Flatulin,  in  a  luminescent  green  dinner  jacket  that  extruded  a  cloud  of  eyelet  lace  from  his  shirtfront,  stood  grinning  at  me,  flanked  by  two  blond  amazons.  &quot;Perfidious  one,  where  have  you  been  hiding?&quot;  he  berated  me  in  French.  &quot;I  searched  for  you  every-  where!  Voieci-our  playmates  for  the  evening,  Miss  [REDACTED]  and  Miss  Yugo-  slavia!&quot;  The  pressure  of  their  hand-  shakes  was  almost  crippling.  &quot;All  right,  " b" now,&quot;  Flatulin  commanded,  fizzing  like  a  Catherine  wheel.  &quot;I'm  taking  you  to  a  really  swinging  place-;e,  men  fiche  de  cette  ambiance.  Come  along,  everyone-allons-y!&quot;  Imbecile  though  I  was,  I  had  sense  enough  at  that  juncture  to  realize  that  a  pit  yawned  at  my  feet  and  that  it  was  time  to  encase  them  in  bedroom  slip-  pers.  Before  I  could  formulate  the  thought,  however,  the  die  was  cast.  The  four  of  us  were  roaring  through  Belgravia  in  a  motor  so  streamlined  that  we  lay  tilted  like  astronauts,  our  chauffeur,  Flatulin,  plainly  navigating  by  the  stars.  Between  Hyde  Park  Cor-  ner  and  Charing  Cross,  he  narrowly  missed  three  traffic  stanchions  and  the  statue  of  Eros,  and  at  last,  seizing  any  pretext  to  slow  him  down,  I  observed  that  his  Jaguar  was  overpowered.  &quot;What  Jaguar?&quot;  he  said  irritably.  &quot;This  is  a  Jensen-can't  you  see?&quot;  All  I  could  see  was  a  jetliner  knifing  across  the  [REDACTED]  sky,  and  I  wished  I  were  aboard  it.  &quot;I  also  keep  a  Lamborghini,  a  Facel  Vega,  and  a  Maserati,&quot;  he  added,  &quot;and  I'll  tell  you  why.  I  have  a  silly  aristocratic  streak  in  me-I  refuse  to  drive  the  same  car  two  nights  in  a  row....  Aha,  here  we  are,  mes  en-  fants.  Prepare  yourselves  for  the  most  exclusive  bofte  in  Europe.&quot;  The  Splendid  Silver   Spoon-so  named,  Flatulin  explained  to  us,  be-  cause  its  patrician  clientele  had  been  born  with  silver  spoons  in  their  heads-     was  a  Stygian-dark  burrow  in  which  half  a  hundred  lunatics  crepitated  to  the  deafening  noise  of  a  West  Indian  steel  band.  As  we  wove  past  the  bar,  the  group  of  Maltese  procurers,  lay-  abouts,  and  spivs  ranged  before  it  ap-  praised  our  partners'  anatomies  in  the  most  explicit  terms.  One  of  them,  in  fact,  leered  so  unashamedly  into  Miss  [REDACTED]'s  bodice  that  I  was  tempted  to  box  his  ears,  but  the  fellow  turned  away  with  a  mumbled  &quot;Scust,  Signore.&quot;  The  choice  of  refreshment,  once  we  were  seated,  offered  no  problem;  Be-  luga  caviar  and  Dom  P\xc3\xa9rignon,  it  ap-  peared,  were  the  only  things  left  in  the  kitchen  at  that  hour.  With  a  lordly  wave,  Flatulin  ordered  quantities  of  both  and  then  bore  Miss  [REDACTED]  off  to  the  floor,  whereupon  I  applied  my-  self  to  weaving  a  spell  around  her  friend.  The  language  barrier  reared  anew;  I  managed  to  ascertain  that  she  hailed  from  [REDACTED],  but  since  allI  could  recollect  of  it  was  that  I  had  contracted  fleas  there,  our  conversation  dwindled.  In  an  effort  to  revive  it,  I  seized  upon  the  gold  band  gracing  her  finger.  &quot;Comtugale?&quot;  I  queried,  sim-  ulating  horrid  jealousy.  &quot;Marriage  bells?  You  'ave  'oosband-Ltebchen?&quot;  She  nodded  enthusiastically  and  fumbled  out  of  her  reticule  a  snapshot  of  a  Cro-Magnon  party  astride  a  trac-  tor-the  father,  she  coyly  signified,  of  her  three  children.  Unable  to  reconcile  motherhood  with  her  aspirations  to  the  throne  of  beauty,  I  lapsed  into  a  moody  silence.  Seconds  later,  Miss  [REDACTED]  rejoined  us  in  high  dudgeon.  Flatulin,  she  reported,  her  magnificent  bosom  heaving,  had  precipitately  abandoned  her  on  the  dance  floor  and  pelted  into  the  street.  If  this  was  a  sample  of  our  vaunted  Southern  chivalry,  she  was  con-  tent  to  remain  in  Helsinki  forever,  she  declared,  and,  gathering  up  her  fecund  companion,  she  stormed  out.  As  I  was  vainly  trying  to  decipher  what  had  happened,  the  maitre  d'hotel  ap-  proached  with  the  request  that  I  pro-  ceed  to  the  manager's  office  at  once.  In  a  malodorous  cubicle  at  the  rear,  a  Cypriote  with  a  face  crisscrossed  by  razor  scars,  who  could  only  have  sprung  from  the  imagination  of  Mr.  Graham  Greene,  lounged  behind  a  desk.  &quot;This  is  Inspector  Sculpin,  of  [REDACTED]  Yard,&quot;  he  said,  indicating  a  craggy  figure  in  a  mackintosh.  &quot;\xc2\xb0E  wants  to  ask  you  a  few  questions.&quot;  &quot;Purely  routine-nothing  to  worry  about,&quot;  said  the  Inspector  suavely.  &quot;Are  we  reliably  informed  that  you  arrived  here  tonight  in  a  1968  Jensen  drophead  coup\xc3\xa9  operated  by  a  French  gentleman?  ...  Quite.  Did  he  give  the  impression  the  car  was  his?&quot;  &quot;W-why,  yes,&quot;  I  faltered.  &quot;He  also  said  he  kept  a  Lamborghini  and  a  slew  of  other  cars.&quot;  &quot;He  has-briefly,&quot;  Sculpin  corrobo-  rated.  &quot;All  of  them  stolen,  of  course,  as  were  his  three  passports.  Did  you  hap-  pen  to  notice  what  he  was  wearing?&quot;  I  described  his  finery  as  best  I  could.  &quot;Ah,  yes,&quot;  the  Inspector  said.  &quot;That  checks  with  the  description  of  the  arti-  cles  removed  last  night  from  Mr.  Fish's  premises  in  Savile  Row.  Well,  sir,  I  needn't  detain  youany  longer.  Should  you  encounter  the  bleeder  again,  you  might  ring  me  up  at  the  Yard.  We'd  rather  like  to  return  him  to  Worm-  wood  Serubs.&quot;  An  hour  later,  recumbent  on  my  bed  at  Fledgling's  Hotel,  I  finished  totting  up  the  charges  at  the  Splendid  Silver  Spoon  and  exhaled  gratefully.  Ninety-  seven  pounds  sixpence-a  picayune  price  indeed  for  having  come  through  such  an  evening  unscathed.  I  was  snug  in  my  haven,  beholden  to  nobody.  No  Rubensian  pink-and-white  females  whining  to  be  caressed,  no  lingerie  or  hose  flung  about,  no  lipstick  on  the  counterpane-everything  was  neat  as  a  pin.  It  was  phenomenal  what  disorder,  what  complications  I  had  been  spared.  I  picked  up  the  phone,  called  room  service  for  a  double  order  of  hot  cocoa,  and,  with  a  sob,  opened  the  biography  of  Prince  Metternich.  "