"GASTRONOMY  RECALLED  THE  TROUBLE  TRIPE  HE  main  trouble  with  tripe  is  that  in  my  present  dwelling  place,  a  small  town  in  northern  [REDACTED],  I  can  count  on  one  hand  the  people  who  will  eat  it  with  me.  What  is  more,  its  careful,  slow  prepara-  tion  is  not  something  I  feellike  doing  for  a  meal  by  myself  at  this  stage  of  the  game,  or  for  several  meals.  It  is  one  of  the  things  that  call  for  a  big  pot  and  plenty  of  hungry  people.  Not  even  my  children  really  like  it,  al-  though  studiously  conditioned  reflexes  forced  them  to  taste  it  in  various  guises  and  countries  and  to  give  fair  judg-  ment,  which  in  their  case  was  No.  Friends  tell  me  that  they  hate  tripe  because  they,  in  turn,  were  forced  to  eat  it  when  young,  or  saw  too  much  of  it  in  fraternity  boarding  houses  as  an  &quot;economy  meat&quot;-reasons  like  that.  I  myself  could  claim  a  childhood  trau-  ma  if  I  needed  to,  and  I  admit  that  I  did  not  face  a  dish  of  tripe  from  my  grandmother's  death  until  I  was  a  good  decade  beyond  it.  In  modern  lingo,  tripewise  I  lay  fallow.  The  old  lady,  gastronomical  dictator  appointed  by  her  own  vision  of  righteous  Chris-  tian  living,  a  nervous  stomach,  and  the  fact  that  she  more  than  generously  shared  the  expenses  of  our  exploding  household,  for  some  reason  approved  of  eating  the  inner  linings  of  an  ox's  first  and  second  bellies.  In  &quot;LarousseGastrono-  mique,&quot;  where  tripe  is  dis-  cussed  under  &quot;Offal&quot;  in  the  English  edition,  there  is  news  for  Grandmother.  (She  would  dismiss  it  as  foreign  nonsense,  of  course.)  &quot;Rich  in  gelatine,  tripe  needs  pro-  longed  cooking,&quot;  says  the  culinary  scripture,  &quot;and  is  not  easy  to  digest,  so  that  it  has  no  place  in  the  diet  of  the  dyspeptic  [or]  sufferers  from  gout.&quot;  I  sense  that  my  beldame  was  practicing  upon  herself  and  us  a  kind  of  sympathetic  medicine,  to  request  that  tripe  be  prepared  and  served-to  be  brave,  eat  a  lion's  heart;  to  remain  shy  and  timid,  eat  violets  in  a  salad;  and  so  on.  Oxen  are  reputedly  serene  and  docile,  and  she  had  a  digestive  system  that  ranked  her  among  the  lead-  ers  in  Battle  [REDACTED]'s  regular  army  of  dyspeptic  missionaries  and  would  have  honored  herwith  a  front  seat  at  any  late-Victorian  spa  in  farther  waters,  like  Vichy  or  [REDACTED].  The  rea-  soning,  perhaps:  since  anox  has  not  one     Ratman)  l,  wits  but  two  pieces  of  equipment  for  his  continuous  ruminative  consumption  of  the  grains  and  grasses  known  also  to  be  salubrious  for  man,  why  would  par-  taking  of  some  of  his  actual  stomachs  not  help  Mrs.  Holbrook's  own  unhappy  organ&quot;  My  grandmother  unwittingly  en-  joyed  perfect  digestion,  thanks  to  her  constant  attention  to  it,  and  it  was  no  more  than  her  due  reward  if  she  be-  lieved  that  her  hypersensitive  innards  would  and  could  assimilate  this  delicate  honeycomb  of  animal  muscle,  with  gastric  gratitude  if  not  pleasure,  She  did  not  believe  in  the  latter,  anyway,  as  part  ofa  true  and  upright  life,  and  as  for  the  hinted  danger  of  gout,  only  gentlemen  had  that  in  her  days  of  rigid  divisions  of  the  sexual  hazards  of  exist-  ence.  There  was  only  one  way  to  serve  tripe  fit  toeat  when  I  was  little-that  is,  fit  for  Grandmother  to  eat.  It  was  seldom  prepared  when  my  mother  was  feeling  fit  enough  herself  to  tain  some  control  over  the  menus,  but  when  she  was  low  in  our  private  peck-  ing  order  we  ate  it  fairly  often.  My  f'ltl\xef\xac\x82  quietly  and  successfully  deter-  mmed  to  remain  cock  ofthe  roost  with  dignity,  always  found  it  commendable,  or  at  least  edible.  The  recipe  for  it,  if  I  feel  sturdy  enough  give  it  in  correct  form,  would  start  with  boiling  the  rubbery  reticulum  in  pieces,  draining  it  casually,  and  dousing  it  with  something}.  called  White  Sauce,  which  was  and  will  remain  in  the  same  class  as  my  grand-  mother's  flour-thickened  Boiled  Dressing.  The  dish  was  at  best  a  faintly  odorous  and  watery  challenge  to  one's  innate  sense  of  the  fitness  of  things.  I  recognize  that  such  experiences  can  lead  to  cynicism,  or  the  analyst's  couch.  In  my  own  case,  they  seem  mainly  to  have  stiffened  my  wish  to  prove  them  mistaken,  and  I  am  now  a  happy,  if  occasionally  frustrated,  tripe  eater.  main-  HAD  a  good  beginning,  the  second  time  around  (really  a  kind  of  ghost-  laying),  at  Crespin  in  Dijon.  The  small  restaurant  is  gone  now,  but  for  a  long  time  it  served  some  of  the  sim-  plest  and  lustiest  meals  I  have  ever  caten,  especially  on  market  days,  for  the  wine  people  who  came  in  from  all   " b"  that  part  of  Burgundy  to  talk  about  casks,  corks,  sulphates.  There  were  al-  ways  snails  at  Crespin,  of  course,  ex-  cept  in  very  hot  weather,  and  in  the  cool  months  oysters  out  on  the  side-  walk  in  kelpy  baskets,  and  both  downed  by  the  dozens.  There  was  the  classic  green  salad  to  scour  the  maw,  and  a  good  plain  tart  of  seasonal  fruits  if  one  could  still  face  it.  I  remember  some  cheeses  in  the  winter.  And  then  there  were  sealed  casseroles  of  tripes  &amp;  la  mode  de  Caen  v\xc3\xa9ritable.  Those  casseroles,  for  two  or  six  or  eight  people,  seemed  to  possess  the  in-  expressible  cachet  of  a  numbered  duck  at  the  Tour  d'Argent,  ora  small  per-  fect  octahedral  diamond  from  Kimber-  ley.  They  were  unsealed  at  the  table.  The  vapor  hissed  out,  and  the  whole  dish  seethed.  Plates  were  too  hot  to  touch  bare-handed,  to  keep  the  sauce  from  turning  as  gluey  as  a  good  ox  would  need  it  to  be  at  a  temperature  more  suited  to  his  own  digestion.  It  was  served  with  soup  spoons  as  well  as  knives  and  forks,  and  plenty  of  crusty  bread  lay  alongside.  It  was  a  fine  ex-  perience.  Crespin,  with  its  hoary,  monstrous  old  oyster  openeralways  there  on  the  wintry  sidewalk,  his  hands  the  most  scarred  I  have  ever  seen  and  still  per-  haps  the  surest  in  the  way  they  handled  the  Portugaises,  the  green  Marennes,  upon  their  dank  beds  of  fresh  sea-  weed-Crespin  and  theold  man  and  even  the  ruddy  marketers  are  gone,  except  on  my  own  mind's  palate.  The  last  time  I  went  there,  I  was  alone.  It  was  a  strange  feeling  at  first.  I  was  in  Dijon  latein  the  nineteen-  fifties,  to  go  again  to  the  Foire  Gas-  tronomique.  The  town  was  jumping,  quasi-hysterical,  injected  with  a  mys-  terious  supercharge  of  medieval  pomp  and  Madison  Avenue-via-[REDACTED]  com-  mercialism.  I  went  to  several  banquets,  where  ornate  symbols  were  pinned  and  bestowed,  with  dignitaries  several  levels  above  me  in  the  ferocious  protocol  of  eating  and  drinking,  and  then  I  went  by  myself  tothe  restaurant  I  wanted  to  be  in  once  more.  In  the  small  low  room  there  was  a  great  hum  and  fume,  like  market  day  but  even  better,  and  every  table  but  one  was  occupied  by  large,  red-  faced,  loud,  happy  Burgundians.  My  table  was  empty,  and  it  seemed  indi-  cated  by  the  gods  that  I  should  come  to  sit  at  it.  I  had  sat  there  many  times  before.  It  was  a  little  apart,  though  not  obtrusively  so,  up  a  step  like  the  fantastic  banquet  boards  still  cluttered  and  heavy  at  the  official  feastings,  and  pleasantly  enclosed  on  three  sides,  with  " b' the  white  window  curtains  at  my  back.  If  I  had  not  come,  a  potted  plant  would  have  been  set  neatly  in  my  place,  I  know.  I  felt  pleased  to  be  there  in-  stead,  and  as  usual  I  was  awed  by  my  continuing  good  luck  in  life,  especial-  ly  now  and  then.  I  think  I  ate  a  few  snails,  to  stay  in  the  picture.  (The  old  scarred  oyster-  man  was  not  there,  it  being  early  No-  vember  and  very  warm.)  Then,  al-  though  after  all  the  banquets  I  felt  about  as  hungry  as  a  sated  moth,  I  ordered  a  small  and  ritual  casserole  of  tripes.  They  were  as  good  as  they  had  ever  been  some  decades  or  centuries  ago  on  my  private  calendar.  The  hissed  and  sizzled  with  delicate  au-  thority.  Nobody  paid  any  attention  to  my  introspective  and  alcoved  sensuali-  ty,  and  the  general  noise  beat  with  pro-  vincial  lustiness  in  the  packed  room.  An  accordionist  I  had  last  seen  in  Mar-  seille  slid  in  from  the  frenzied  streets  and  added  to  the  wildness,  somewhat  hopelessly.  When  he  saw  me  digging  into  my  little  pot  of  tripe,  he  nodded,  recognizing  me  as  a  fellow-wanderer.  I  asked  him  if  he  would  have  a  drink,  as  he  twiddled  out  near-logical  tunes  on  the  instrument  he  wore  like  a  child  on  his  belly.  He  looked  full  at  me  and  said,  &quot;Sometime  a  pestis  on  the  Old  Port.&quot;  I  have  not  yet  met  him  there  again,  but  it  is  almost  doubtless  that  I  |;  shall.  I  could  not  know  that  the  next  time  I  returned,  lemminglike,  to  the  dank  old  town,  Crespin  and  the  white  cur-  tains  and  all  of  it  would  be  gone,  but  it  is.  It  is  too  bad  to  explain.  HE  classic  recipes  for  preparing  tripe  can  be  found  in  any  good  cookbook,  which  someone  who  has  read  this  far  will  already  know  and  be  able  to  consult.  I  like  the  French  methods,  but  there  are  excellent  ones  in  almost  every  culture  that  permit  theuse  of  this  type  of  animal  meat.  Here  is  a  good  one  that  is  fresh  to  the  taste,  adapted  from  the  trippe  alle  Petromus  served  currently  in  a  [REDACTED]  restau-  rant  called  Tiberio:  3  pounds  tripe,  previously  boiled  until  tender.  4  medium-sized  carrots  3  sticks  ofcelery  2  large  onions  34  cup  butter.  4  tablespoons  tomato  pur\xc3\xa9e.  1  glass  (6-8  ounces)  dry  white  wine.  /  glass  olive  oil.  2  clovesof  garlic,  minced.  /  cup  chopped  fresh  parsley.  I/  cup  chopped  fresh  basil.  Drain  tripe  and  cut  into  l-inch  squares.  Gently  brown  the  three  vegetables  in  the  butter.  Add  tomato  pur\xc3\xa9e  and  wine, and' b" stir  until  sauce  thickens.  Add  tripe,  and  simmer  slowly  for  1  hour.  In  separate  skillet  warm  olive  oil,  and  add  garlic,  parsley,  and  basil,  taking  care  not  to  overheat.  Cook  slowly  about  5  minutes,  mix  quickly  into  tripe,  and  serve.  This  is  a  comparatively  fast  recipe  (the  true  tripes  &amp;  le  mode  de  Caen  take  at  least  twelve  hours  of  baking),  and  it  is  very  simple,  which  explains  why  it  is  sought  after  in  a  posh  Mayfair  restaurant,  where  the  clients  may  feel  jaded.  I  think  thatthe  fresh  herbs  give  it  its  special  quality,  but  perhaps  it  could  be  successfully  tinkered  with  if  they  proved  unprocurable.  Fortunately,  this  is  seldom  the  case  with  parsley.  If  dried  basil  had  to  be  used,  one  to  two  table-  spoonfuls  should  be  soaked  in  one  and  a  half  instead  of  one  glass  of  wine,  and  I  would  be  tempted  to  go  a  step  further  and  use  a  light  dry  red  instead  of  the  Tiberio's  white.  All  this  would,  I  fear,  make  the  whole  dish  more  ordi-  nary.  While  I  am  about  it,  I  might  as  well  discuss  why  it  is  much  easier  to  make  things  with  tripe  now  than  it  was  a  hundred  or  so  years  ago,or  when  I  myself  was  little.  I  do  this  in  amis-  sionary  spirit,  convinced  that  they  can  be  very  good  to  eat  and  should  be  less  shunned  in  our  country.  In  these  days,  tripe  is  almost  always  taken  through  its  first  tedious  cleansings  in  special  rooms  at  the  wholesale  butchers'  factories.  My  friend  Remo,  meatman  and  mentor,  says  somewhat  cryptically  that  the  stuff  is  subjected  to  enormous  pressure,  which  I  assume  means  with  steam.  It  is  then  trimmed  to  a  uniform  niceness,  wrapped  in  bundles  rather  like  large  pallid  grape  leaves,  and  delivered  fresh  or  quick-  frozen  to  the  markets  where  there  is  any  demand  for  it.  Once  the  cook  takes  over  from  the  butcher,  this  modern  treatment  makes  it  possible  to  prepare  tripe  for  any  dish  in  an  hour  or  a  little  more,  by  washing  it  well  and  then  simmering  it  in  ample  water  flavored  to  taste  with  carrots,  onion,  celery,  herbs.  When  tender  but  not  too  soft,  it  is  drained  and  then  eventi,  en  avant,  forward!  Here  is  the  method,  perhaps  to  shame  some  of  us  into  trying  our  luck  for  a  change,  recommended  in  1868  by  the  expatriate  Pierre  Blot,  in  his  &quot;Hand-Book  of  Practical  Cookery,  for  Ladies  and  Professional  Cooks.  Con-  taining  the  Whole  Science  and  Art  of  Preparing  Human  Food&quot;  (D.  Apple-  ton  &amp;  Co.,  New  York):     Trips  How  to  clean  and  prepare.  Scrape  and  wash  it  well  several  times  in  boiling  water,   "