THE  OTHER  DEATH  52  HAVE  mislaid  the  letter,  but  a  I  couple  of  years  or  so  ago  Gannon  wrote  me  from  his  ranch  up  in  Gualeguaychu  saying  he  would  send  me  a  translation,  perhaps  the  very  first  into  Spanish,  of  Ralph  Waldo  Emer-  son's  poem  &quot;The  Past,&quot;  and  adding  in  a  [REDACTED]  that  don  Pedro  Damiin,  whom  I  might  recall,  had  died  of  a  lung  ailment  a  few  nights  earlier.  Theman  (Gannon  went  on),wasted  by  fever,  had  in  his  delirium  relived  the  long  ordeal  of  the  battle  of  Masoller.  It  seemed  to  me  there  was  nothing  un-  reasonable  or  out  of  the  ordinary  about  this  news  since  don  Pedro,  when  he  was  nineteen  or  twenty,  had  been  a  follower  of  the  banners  of  Aparicio  Sa-  ravia.  Pedro  Damian  had  been  working  as  a  hand  up  north  on  a  ranch  in  Rio  Negro  or  Paysandu  when  the  1904  revolution  broke  out.  Although  he  was  from  Gualeguaych,  in  the  province  of  Entre  Rios,  he  went  along  with  his  friends  and,  being  as  cocky  and  ignorant  as  they  were,  joined  the  rebel  army.  He  fought  in  one  or  two  skirmishes  and  in  the  final  battle.  Returned  home     in  1905,  Damian,  with  a  kind  of  hum-  ble  stubbornness,  once  more  took  up  his  work  as  a  cowhand.  For  all  I  know,  he  never  left  his  native  province  again.  He  spent  his  last  thirty  years  living  in  a  small  lonely  cabin  eight  or  ten  miles  from  Nancay.  It  was  in  that  out-of-the-  way  place  that  I  spoke  with  him  one  evening  (that  I  tried  to  speak  with  him  one  evening)  back  around  1942;  he  was  a  man  of  few  words,  and  not  very  bright.  Masoller,  it  turned  out,  was  the  whole  of  his  personal  history,  And  so  I  was  not  surprised  to  find  out  that  he  had  lived  the  sound  and  fury  of  that  battle  over  again  at  the  hour  of  his  death.  When  I  knew  I  would  nev-  er  see  Damian  another  time,  I  wanted  to  remember  him,  but  so  poor  is  my  memory  for  faces  that  all  I  could  recall  was  the  snapshot  Gannon  had  taken  of  him.  There  is  nothing  un-  usual  in  thisfact,  considering  that  I  saw  the  man  only  once,  at  the  be-  ginning  of  1942,  but  had  looked  at  his  picture  many  times.  Gannon  sent  me  the  photograph  and  it,  too,  has  been  misplaced.  I  think  now  that  if  I    were  to  come  across  it  I  would  feel  afraid.  The  second  episode  took  place  in  Montevideo,  months  later.  Don  Pe-  dro's  fever  and  his  agony  gave  me  the  idea  for  a  tale  of  fantasy  based  on  the  defeat  at  Masoller;  Emir  Rodriguez  Monegal,  to  whom  I  had  told  the  plot,  wrote  me  an  introduction  to  Colonel  Dionisio  Tabares,  who  had  fought  in  that  campaign.  The  Colonel  received  me  one  evening  after  dinner.  From  a  rocking  chair  out  in  the  side  yard,  he  recalled  the  old  days  with  great  feeling  but  at  the  same  time  with  a  faulty  sense  of  chronology.  He  spoke  of  ammunition  that  never  reached  him  and  of  reserves  of  horses  that  arrived  worn  out,  of  sleepy  dust-covered  men  weaving  labyrinths  of  marches,  of  Saravia,  who  might  have  ridden  into  Montevideo  but  who  passed  it  by  &quot;be-  cause  the  gaucho  has  afearof  towns,&quot;  of  throats  hacked  from  ear  to  ear,  of  a  civil  war  that  seemed  to  me  less  a  military  operation  than  the  dream  of  a  cattle  thief  or  an  outlaw.  Names  of  battles  kept  coming  up:  IMescas,  Tupamba\xc3\xa9,  Masoller.  The  Colonel's  pauses  were  so  effective  and  his  man-  ner  so  vivid  that  I  realized  he  had  told  and  retold  these  same  things  many  times  before,  and  I  feared  that  behind  his  words  al-  most  no  true  memories  re-  mained.  When  he  stopped  for  a  breath,  I  managed  to  get  in  Damian's  name.  &quot;Damidn?  Pedro  Dami-  an?&quot;  said  the  Colonel.  &quot;He  served  with  me.  A  little  half  breed.  I  remember  the  boys  used  to  call  him  Daymin-  after  the  river.&quot;  The  Colo-  nel  let  out  a  burst  of  loud  laughter,  then  cut  it  off  all  at  once.  I  could  not  tell  whether  his  discomfort  was  real  or  put  on.  In  another  voice,  he  stated  that  war,  like  wom-  en,  served  as  a  test  of  men,  and  that  nobody  knew  who  he  really  was  until  he  had  been  under  fire.  A  man  might  think  himself  a  cow-  ard  and  actually  be  brave.  And  the  other  way  around,  too,  as  had  happened  to  that  poor  Damiin,  who  bragged  his  way  in  and  out  of  saloons  with  his  white  ribbon  marking  him  as  a  Blanco,  and  later  on  lost  his  nerve  at  Masoller.  In  one  exchange  of  gunfire  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  with  the  regulars,  he  handled  himself  like  a  man,  butthen  it  was  something  else  again  when  the  two  armies  met  face  to  face  and  the  artillery  began  pounding  away  and  ev-  ery  man  felt  as  though  there  were  five  thou-  sand  other  men  out  there  grouping  to  kill  him.  That  poor  kid.  He'd  spent  his  life  on  a  farm  dipping  sheep,  and  then  all  of  a  sudden  he  gets  himself  dragged  along  and  mixed  up  in  the  grim  reality  of  war....  For  some  absurd  reason,  Tabares'  ver-  sion  of  the  story  made  me  uncomfortable.  I  would  have  preferred  things  to  have  hap-  pened  differently.  Without  being  aware  of  it,  I  had  made  a  kind  of  idol  out  of  old  Da-  miin-a  man  I  had  seen  only  once  on  a  single  evening  many  years  earlier.  Tabares'  story  destroyed  every-  thing.  Suddenly  the  reasons  for  Damian's  aloofness  and  his  stub-  born  insistence  on  keep-  ing  to  himself  were  clear  to  me.  They  had  not  sprung  from  modesty  but  from  shame.  In  vain,  I  told  myself  thata  man  pursued  by  an  act  of  cowardice  is  more  complex  and  more  interesting  than  one  who  is  merely  courageous.  The  gaucho  Martin  Fierro,  I  thought,  is  less  memorable  than  Lord  Jim  or  Razumov.  Yes,but  Damidn,  as  a  gaucho,  should  have  been  Martin  Fi-  erro-especially  in  the  presence  of  Uruguayan  gauchos.  In  what  Tabares  left  unsaid,  I  felt  his  assumption  (per-  haps  undeniable)  that  Uruguay  is  more  primitive  than  [REDACTED]  and  therefore  physically  braver.  I  remember  we  said  goodbye  to  each  other  that  night  with  a  cordiality  that  was  a  bit  marked.     URING  the  winter,  the  need  of  one  or  two  details  for  my  story  (which  somehow  was  slow  in  taking  shape)  sent  me  back  to  Colonel  Ta-  bares  again.  I  found  him  with  anoth-  er  man  of  his  own  age,  a  Dr.  Juan  Francisco  Amaro  from  Paysandu,  who  had  also  fought  in  Saravia's  revolu-  tion.  They  spoke,  naturally,  of  Masoller.  Amaro  told  a  few  anecdotes,  then  slowly  added,  in  the  manner  of  someone  who  is  thinking  aloud,  &quot;We  camped  for  the  night  at  Santa  Irene,  I  recall,  and  some  of  the  men  from  around  there  joined  us.  Among  them  a  French  veterinarian,  who  died  the  night  before  the  battle,  and  a  boy,  a  sheepshearer  from  Entre  Rios.  Pedro  Damiin  was  his  name.&quot;  I  cut  him  off  sharply.  &quot;Yes,  I  know,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;The  Argentine  who  couldn't  face  the  bullets.&quot;  I  stopped.  The  two  of  them  were  looking  at  me,  puzzled.  &quot;You  are  mistaken,  [REDACTED];  Amaro  said  after  a  while.  &quot;Pedro  Damian  died  as  any  man  might  wish  to  die.  It  was  about  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  The  regular  troops  had  dug  themselves  in  on  the  top  of  a  hill  and  our  men  charged  them  with  lances.  Damiin  rode  at  the  head,  shouting,  and  a  bullet  struck  him  square  in  the  chest.  He  stood  up  in  his  stirrups,  finished  his  shout,  and  then  rolled  to  the  ground,  where  he  lay  under  the  horses'  hooves.  He  was  dead,  and  the  whole  last  charge  of  Masoller  trampled  over  him.  So  fearless,  and  barely  twenty.&quot;  He  was  speaking,  doubtless,  of  an-  other  Damian,  but  something  made  me  ask  what  it  was  the  boy  had  shouted.  &quot;Filth,&quot;  said  the  Colonel.  &quot;That's  what  men  shout  in  action.&quot;  &quot;'Maybe,&quot;  said  Amaro,  &quot;but  he  also  cried  out,  'Long  live  Urquiza!&quot;  We  were  silent.  Finally,  the  Colonel  murmured,  &quot;Not  as  if  we  were  fight-  ing  at  Masoller,  but  at  Cagancha  or  496e646961  Muerta  a  hundred  years  ago.&quot;  He  added,  genuinely  bewildered,  &quot;I  commanded  those  troops,  and  I  could  swear  it's  the  first  time  I've  ever  heard  of  this  Damian.&quot;  We  had  no  luck  in  getting  the  Colonel  to  remember  him.  ACK  in  [REDACTED]  Aires,  the  amaze-  ment  that  his  forgetfulness  pro-  duced  in  me  repeated  itself.  Browsing  " b"54  through  the  eleven  pleasurable  volumes  of  Emerson's  works  in  the  basement  of  Mitchell's,  the  English  bookstore,  I  met  Patricio  Gannon  one  afternoon.  I  asked  him  for  his  translation  of  &quot;The  Past.&quot;  He  told  me  that  he  hadno  translation  of  it  in  mind,  and  that,  besides,  Spanish  literature  was  so  boring  it  made  Emer-  son  quite  superfluous.  I  reminded  him  that  he  had  promised  me  the  transla-  tion  in  the  same  letter  in  which  he  wrote  me  of  Damian's  death.  He  asked  me  who  was  Damian,.  Itold  him  in  vain.  With  rising  terror,  I  noticed  that  he  was  listening  to  me  very  strangely,  and  I  took  refuge  in  a  literary  discus-  sion  on  the  detractors  of  Emerson,  a  poet  far  more  complex,  far  more  skilled,  and  truly  more  extraordinary  than  the  unfortunate  Poe.  I  must  put  down  some  additional  facts.  In  April,  I  had  a  letter  from  Colonel  Dionisio  Tabares;  his  mind  was  no  longer  vague  and  now  he  re-  membered  quite  well  the  boy  from  En-  tre  Rios  who  spearheaded  the  charge  at  Masoller  and  whom  his  men  buried  that  night  in  a  grave  at  the  foot  of  the  hill.  In  July,  I  passed  through  Guale-  I  did  not  come  across  Dami-  An's  cabin,  and  nobody  there  seemed  to  remember  him  now.  I  wanted  to  ques-  tion  the  foreman  Diego  Abaroa,  who  saw  Damiin  die,  but  Abaroa  had  passed  away  himself  at  the  beginning  of  the  winter.  I  triedto  call  to  mind  Damian's  features;  months  later,  leaf-  ing  through  some  old  albums,  I  found  that  the  dark  face  I  had  attempted  to  evoke  really  belonged  to  the  famous  tenor  Tamberlik,  playing  the  role  of  Othello.  Now  I  move  on  to  conjectures.  The  easiest,  but  at  the  same  time  the  least  satisfactory,  assumes  two  Damians:  the  coward  who  died  in  Entre  Rios  around  1946,  and  the  man  of  courage  who  died  at  Masoller  in  1904.  But  this  falls  apart  in  its  inability  to  explain  what  are  really  the  puzzles:  the  strange  fluc-  tuations  of  Colonel  Tabares'  memory,  for  one,  and  the  general  forgetfulness,  which  in  so  short  a  time  could  blot  out  the  image  and  even  the  name  of  the  manwho  came  back.  (I  cannot  accept,  I  do  not  want  to  accept,  a  simpler  pos-  sibility-that  of  my  having  dreamed  the  first  man.)  Stranger  still  is  the  supernatural  conjecture  thought  up  by  Ulrike  von  Kiihlmann.  Pedro  Damian,  said  Ulrike,  was  killed  in  the  battle  and  at  the  hour  of  his  deathasked  God  to  carry  him  back  to  Entre  Rios.  God  hesitated  a  moment  before  granting  the  request,  but  by  then  the  man  was  al-  ready  dead  andhad  been  seen  by  others  to  have  fallen.  God,  who  cannot  un-  make  the  past  but  can  affect  its  images,  altered  the  image  of  Damian's  violent  death  into  one  of  falling  into  a  faint.  And  so  it  was  the  boy's  ghost  that  came  back  to  his  native  province.  Came  back,  but  we  must  not  forget  that  it  did  so  as  a  ghost.  It  lived  in  isolation  without  a  woman  and  without  friends;  it  loved  and  possessed  everything,  but  from  a  distance,  as  from  the  other  side  ofa     -May  Swenson  mirror;  ultimately  it  &quot;died&quot;  and  its  frail  image  just  disappeared,  like  water  in  water.  This  conjecture  is  faulty,  but  it  may  havebeen  responsible  for  point-  ing  out  to  me  the  true  one  (the  one  I  now  believe  to  be  true),  which  is  at  the  same  time  simpler  and  more  unprece-  dented.  Ina  mysterious  way,  I  discov-  ered  it  in  the  treatise  &quot;De  Omnipoten-  tia,&quot;  by  Pier  Damiani,  after  having  been  referred  to  him  by  two  lines  in  Canto  XXI  of  the  &quot;Paradiso,&quot;  in  which  the  problem  of  Damiani's  identity  is  brought  up.  In  the  fifth  chapter  of  that  treatise,  Pier  Damiani  asserts-against  Aristotle  and  against  Fredegarius  de  Tours-that  it  is  within  God's  power  to  make  what  once  was  into  something  that  has  never  been.  Reading  those  old  theological  discussions,  I  began  to  un-  " b" derstand  don  Pedro  Damian's  tragic  story.  HIS  is  my  solution.  Damian  han-  dled  himself  like  a  coward  on  the  battlefield  at  Masoller  and  spent  the  rest  of  his  life  setting  right  that  shame-  ful  weakness.  He  returned  to  Entre  Rios;  he  never  lifted  a  hand  against  another  man,  he  never  cut  anyone  up,  he  never  Sought  famc  as  a  man  Of  courage.  Instead,  living  out  there  in  the  hill  country  of  Nancay  and  struggling  with  the  backwoods  and  with  wild  cat-  tle,  he  made  himself  tough,  hard.  Probably  without  realizing  it,  he  was  preparing  the  way  for  the  miracle.  He  thought  from  his  innermost  self,  If  des-  tiny  brings  me  another  battle,  I'll  be  ready  for  it.  For  forty  years  he  waited  and  waited,  with  an  inarticulate  hope,  and  then,  in  the  end,  at  the  hour  of  his  death,  fate  brought  him  his  battle.  It  came  in  the  form  of  delirium,  for,  as  the  Greeks  knew,  we  are  all  shadows  ofa  dream.  In  his  final  agony  he  lived  his  battle  over  again,  conducted  himself  as  a  man,  and  in  heading  the  last  charge  he  was  struck  by  a  bullet  in  the  middle  ofthe  chest.  And  so,in  1946,  through  the  working  out  of  a  long,  slow-burn-  ing  passion,  Pedro  Damian  died  in  the  defeat  at  Masoller,  which  took  place  between  winter  and  spring  in  1904.  In  the  &quot;Summa  Theologiae,&quot;  it  is  de-  nied  that  God  can  unmake  the  past,  but  nothing  is  said  of  the  complicated  con-    catenation  of  causes  and  effects  which  is  so  vast  and  so  intimate  that  perhaps  it  might  prove  impossible  to  annul  a  single  remote  fact,  insignificant  as  it  may  seem,  without  invalidating  the  present.  To  modify  the  past  is  not  to  modify  a  single  fact;  it  is  to  annul  the  consequences  of  that  fact,  which  tend  to  be  infinite.  In  other  words,  it  involves  the  creation  of  two  universal  histories.  In  the  first,  let  us  say,  Pe-  dro  Damiin  died  in  Entre  Rios  in  1946;  in  the  second  at  Masoller  in  1904.  It  is  this  second  history  that  we  are  living  now,  but  the  suppression  of  the  first  was  not  immediate  and  pro-  duced  the  odd  contradictions  that  I  have  related.  It  was  in  Colonel  Dioni-  sio  Tabares  that  the  different  stages  took  place.  At  first,  he  remembered  that  Damian  acted  as  a  coward;  next  he  forgot  him  entirely;  then  he  re-  membered  fearless  death.  No  less  illuminating  is  the  case  of  the  fore-  man  Abaroa;  he  had  to  die,  as  I  un-  derstand  it,  because  he  held  too  many  memories  of  don  Pedro  Damian.  As  for  myself,  I  do  not  think  I  am  running  a  similar  risk.  I  have  guessed  at  and  set  down  a  process  beyond  man's  understanding,  a  kind  of  ex-  posure  of  reason;  but  there  are  cer-  tain  circumstances  that  lessen  the  dangers  of  this  privilege  of  mine.  For  the  present,  I  am  not  sure  of  having  always  written  the  truth.  I  suspect  that  in  my  story  there  are  a  few  false  mem-     ories.  It  is  my  suspicion  that  Pedro  Damian  (if  he  ever  existed)  was  not  called  Pedro  Damiin  and  that  Ire-  member  him  by  that  name  so  asto  be-  lieve  someday  thatthe  whole:  story  was  suggested  to  me  by  Pier  Damiani's  thesis.  Something  similar  happens  with  the  poem  I  mentioned  in  the  first  para-  graph,  which  centers  around  the  ir-  revocability  of  the  past.  A  few  years  from  now,  I  shall  believe  I  made  up  a  fantastic  tale  and  I  will  actually  have  recorded  an  event  that  was  real,  just  as  some  two  thousand  years  ago  in  all  innocence  Virgil  believed  he  was  setting  down  the  birth  of  a  man  and  foretold  the  birth  of  Christ.  Poor  Damiin'!  Death  carried  him  off  at  the  age  of  twenty  in  a  local  bat-  tle  of  a  sad  and  little-known  war,  but  in  the  end  he  got  what  he  longed  for  in  his  heart,  and  he  was  a  long  time  getting  it,  and  perhaps  there  is  no  greater  happiness. "