"A  MOMENT  NCE  in  a  while,  toward  the  end  O  of  a  meal,  sitting  at  the  table  on  which  the  children  had  com-  pletely  disarranged  the  well-laid  pattern  of  dishes,  glasses,  and  silver,  as  one  bounced  on  a  chair,  the  other  played  on  the  floor,  and  his  wife  tried  to  feed  the  baby,  he  would  do  something  which  at  that  table  seemed  utterly  out  of  place-  like  eating  a  pear  with  a  fork  and  knife.  The  effort  wouldn't  last  long.  Before  he  had  half  finished,  he  would  have  to  divert  it  to  something  else,  like  breaking  up  a  fight.  Still,  the  effort  did  give  him  a  little  satisfaction.  It  removed  him  from  this  table;  for  a  moment  he  was  far  away,  alone,  at  some  peaceful  inn,  with  a  white  tablecloth  not  spotted  by  ketchup  or  jam  but  on  which  the  only  color  was  the  wine's  reflection.  Peace  and  quiect-they  seemed  out-  s'de  his  range  now,  things  he  thought  about  but  didn't  experience  anymore.  Even  when  his  children  were  asleep,  his  wife  reading  in  the  next  room,  and  he  had  a  cigarette  between  his  fingers  and  a  glass  beside  him,  he  wasn't  really  at  rest.  No,  the  feeling  eluded  him.  It  seemed  to  come  to  him  only  in  his  sleep.  But  was  sleep  peace  and  quiet?  Not  exactly.  You  needed  to  be  awake  to  savor  peace  and  quiet.  They  weren't  just  a  void,  a  passive,  inert  state.  They  were  a  rich  experience.  Love  gave  you  acertain  respite,  he  thought,  and  he  remembered  the  long  kisses,  lips  never  parting,  and  a  heavy  calm,  akin  tosleep,  falling  upon  him.  Well,  that  couldn't  happen  with  his  wife;  for  one  thing,  she  couldn't  breathe  through  her  nose  and  had  to  keepher  mouth  open  at  all  times.  And  then,  she  thought  they  were  past  kiss-  ing.  She  always  increased  his  age  by  at  least  five  years.  &quot;There  you  are,  going  on  to  fifty,&quot;  she  would  say,  though  he  was  only  forty-three.  While  working-painting,  sketch-  ing-he  had  come  on  some  of  the  brightest,  clearest,  serenest  moments  of  his  life.  But  one  couldn't  go  and  paint  just  because  it  promised  calm.  One  needed  a  little  calm-especially  inward  calm-to  begin  with.  It  wasn't  any  good  to  just  sit  and  wait  for  inspiration,  either,  like  some  phony  mystic.  To  work  he  had  to  feel  alert  and,  if  not  happy,  at  least  a  little  removed  from  troubles,  so  that  he  might  have  some  perspective  of  them.  Sleep,  love,  work-they  were  con-  ducive  to  calm,  but  why  couldn't  one  have  a  true,  self-sustaining  moment  that  didn't  need  the  support  of  other  things?  Why  couldn't  he  just  sit  and  " b' draw  peace  from  a  cigarette,  for  in-  stance,  or,  better  still,  just  sit  doing  nothing,  not  even  smoking,  and  be  con-  tent-savor  time,  pure  time,  soar  in  it  like  a  bird  in  space,  still  for  a  moment.  Not  easy;  not  for  him-or  rarely.  It  was  hard  to  gain  that  moment  because  it  depended  on  abstracting  oneself  from  all  the  little  harrowing  things  that  the  day  presented  and  that  clung,  stuck  to  you  with  a  sort  of  love.  Yet  it  could  be  done,  and  when  it  was,  it  was  eachtime  a  triumph.  E  looked  at  the  light  of  sunset  that  through  gaps  in  the  foliage  of  the  maple  trees  came  in  through  the  window  and  lit  up  the  antique  rose  of  the  wall  into  something  very  live  and  changing-a  wavering,  small  oval  blushing,  metamorphosing  into  a  circle,  and  then  into  an  ellipse,  and  almost  fading;  then  returning  to  what  it  was,  an  oval;  again  fading:  a  subtle,  con-  summate  dancer  on  the  wall.  For  a  moment  as  he  watched  that  dance,  he  was  happy,  he  was  content.  Effortlessly  he  watched  it  till,  reviving,  flaring  up  at  odd  times  by  surprise,  it  waned  little  by  little.  Well,  there  it  was-a  moment.  He  felt,  as  he  did  after  some  intensely  hap-  py  experience,  almost  like  weeping.  He  got  up  from  his  chair;  the  sun  had  set.  He  looked  at  the  sky.  No  cloud  caught  the  sun  as  well  as  the  wall  had  caught  it.  A  dingy  thing,  that  wall,  compared  to  clouds  and  flowers,  but  it  had  its  mo-  ments.  Not  every  day,  not  even  every  week  (and  sometimes  more  than  a  month  went  by),  but  sooner  or  later  it  lit  up,  it  shone,  it  lost  its  dullness;  you  almost  forgot  it  was  a  wall.    '