"FIVE  LITTLE  BICEPS  AND  HOW  THEY  FLEY  ALLERGYTO  WORK  IS  REPORTED  CarRAMANICO,  4974616c79  (Reuters)-Some  people  are  literally  allergic  to  work,  ac-  cording  to  a  report  submitted  to  an  Ital-  ian  medical  conference  here.  The  report  said  that  muscular  activity  could  release  an  excessive  amount  of  histamine,  a  pow-  erful  chemical  stimulant  in  the  body  tis-  sues,  to  cause  rashes  and  allergies.-The  Times.  Houvstox,  Tex.  (AP)-An  [REDACTED]  psychiatrist  says  this  country  is  being  swept  by  an  epidemic  of  work  addiction.  Dr.Nelson  J.  Bradley  said  work  addic-  tion  has  all  the  characteristics  of  alcohol  or  narcotics  addiction....  The  work  ad-  dict  has  a  driven  craving  for  work,  de-  velops  an  increasing  tolerance  for  it  and  suffers  withdrawal  symptoms  without  it,  Bradley  said.  He  said  one  sure  sign  of  the  work  addict  is  habitually  working  overtime.  He  said  another  likely  one  is  the  man  who  says  he  has  not  taken  a  vacation  in  17  years.-The  Post.  T  was  the  kind  of  [REDACTED]  Dutch  barn  immortalized  by  An-  drew  Wyeth  and  Charles  Sheeler,  a  soaring  nave  of  fieldstone  to  which  various  wooden  transepts-a  wagon  shed,  a  granary,  a  forechute,  and  a  silo-had  been  added  across  the  past  century  and  a  half,  and  every  time  I  drove  up  our  lane  the  sight  of-it  dom-  inating  the  ridge  and  the  adjacent  fields  gave  me  a  renewed  sense  of  sta-  bility  and  peace.  While  wholly  orna-  mental  nowadays-a  receptacle  for  fire-  wood,  discarded  bookcases,  and  rusting  pickaxes-it  symbolized  continuity,  and  the  hex  signs  on  the  facade  were  a  placatory  gesture  to  destiny  that  was  highly  comforting.  During  the  last  couple  of  winters,  however,  time  and  the  weather  had  made  visible  inroads.  The  paint  had  flaked  off  most  of  the  siding,  patches  of  stucco  were  missing  from  the  gables,  and  overnight  the  picturesque  had  suddenly  grown  shab-  by.  When  a  gossipy  neighbor  stopped  me  in  the  post  office  to  observe  with  acid  sweetness,  &quot;I  hate  to  see  the  old  landmarks  disappear,&quot;  I  knew  the  community  was  buzzing.  The  barn  had  to  be  painted-sixty-five  mortal  gal-  lons,  I  remembered  from  the  past-  and  it  was  fruitless  to  sulk.  I  went  in  search  of  a  contractor.  Mr.  Trautwein,  universally  recom-  mended  as  a  wizard  in  his  profession,  lived  thirty  miles  distant  in  a  trim  Mennonite  hamlet  in  the  backcoun-  try.  The  houses  flanking  his  glistened  with  fresh  paint;  their  shutters  glowed  like  cut  velvet,  their  porches  sparkled.  Trautwein's  residence,  in  distinction,  was  the  most  neglected  dwelling  I  had     seen  outside  the  Gorbals  in  Glasgow.  No  trace  of  pigment  showed  on  the  weathered  clapboards,  the  gutters  sagged  dispiritedly  from  the  roof,  and  the  yard  was  littered  with  turpentine  cans,  splintered  glass,  drop  cloths,  and  similar  detritus.  Dismayed  by  these  portents,  I  was  about  to  clear  off,  but,  recollecting  the  axiom  that  cobblers'  children  traditionally  go  unshod,  I  de-  cided  to  persevere.  Trautwein,  a  nee-  dle-nosed  citizen  with  a  Chester  Conk-  lin  mustache,  was  immersed  in  a  TV  Western  he  reckoned.  would.  occupy  him  forthe  remainder  of  the  week,  but  he  finally  consented  to  drive  over  in  a  day  or  two  and  give  me  an  estimate.  With  the  instinctive  timing  of  country-  folk,  he  materialized  one  evening  just  as  my  wife  was  extractinga  souffle  from  the  oven,  and  the  atmosphere  when  I  bolted  off  to  inspect  the  barn  with  him  became  abruptly  charged.  Trautwein's  face  lengthened  at  the  magnitude  of  the  task  confronting  him.  &quot;Too  far  gone,&quot;  he  said  gloomily.  &quot;Them  boards'll  suck  up  paint  like  a  sponge.  If  I  was  in  your  shoes,  1d  pull  the  durn  thing  down  and  use  the  wood  for  kindling.&quot;  I  rejoined  somewhat  loftily  that  I  had  not  been  appointed  chief  minister  of  this  domain  to  preside  at  the  dis-  solution  of  my  barn.  The  reference  was  clearly  lost  on  him,  &quot;Okeydoke,&quot;  he  said  indifferently.  &quot;It's  your  money,  not  mine.  You  want  a  spray  job  or  do  we  brush  her  on?&quot;  &quot;Hand  work,&quot;  I  said,  my  voice  res-  onant  with  admonitions  gleaned  from  the  Consumer?  Guide,  &quot;The  old-fashioned,  painstaking  way.  Coat  every  nook,  every  knot  with  the  best  stuff  obtainable,  and  damn  the  expense.  This  building  was  here  when  the  red  man  roamed  those  woods,  brother,  and,  by  Godfreys,&quot;  I  vowed  emotionally,  &quot;it'll  be  here  when  he  returns!&quot;  Assuring  me  that  the  mandate  was  graven  on  his  heart,  Trautwein  took  off,  and  a  month  passed  without  any  word  from  him.  I  phoned  his  home  half  a  dozen  times,  on  each  occasion  falling  into  long,  frustrating  causeries  with  what  were  either  children  or  chimpanzees;  possibly  both  were  being  reared  together  as  an  experiment.  UI-  timately,  I  cornered  the  man,  only  to  be  bombarded  with  excuses.  The  weather  was  too  humid  to  paint  and  the  insects  too  numerous,  there  was  a  nationwide  shortage  of  ladders,  and  arthritis  was  epidemic  among  his  help.     53  One  August  morning,  long  after  my  hopes  had  faded,  a  panel  truck  bearing  no  identification,  like  those  used  to  merchandise  hot  furs,  drew  up  at  the  corral  and  discharged  two  persons  in  white  boiler  suits  and  matching  berets.  My  first  supposition,  that  they  were  Andrew  Wyeth  and  Charles  Sheeler,  yielded  when  they  disclosed  themselves  as  emissaries  of  Trautwein-Russell  Mulch  and  Howard  Compost  by  name.  As  they  started  off-loading  their  gear,  I  was  immediately  struck  by  the  dif-  ference  between  them.  Compost's  vigor  was  well-nigh  manic;  he  whisked  up  five  hogsheads  of  paint  at  once,  threw  scaffolding  about  like  jackstraws,  and  flung  a  block  and  tackle  with  such  force  that  it  defoliated  half  the  nasturtiums  in  our  dory.  Mulch,  contrariwise,  seemed  to  be  tottering  on  the  brink  of  in-  validism,  a  pallid,  lymphatic  shade  whose  every  step  threatened  to  be  his  last.  Watching  him  struggle  to  open  a  can  of  putty,  beads  of  perspiration  the  size  of  Catawba  grapes  dewing  his  forehead,  I  was  appalled.  To  anyone  with  a  professional  eye  like  mine-  and  as  a  onetime  pre-medical  student  I  knew  my  way  around  pathology-the  man  was  suffering  from  iron-poor  blood.  He  was  a  gone  goose.  At  the  moment,  however,  I  had  other  matters  engaging  my  attention-  notably,  dipping  sprays  of  Queen  Anne's  lace  in  whitewash  to  make  floral  arrangements  for  our  hall-so  I  exacted  a  pledge  from  the  duo  to  preserve  the  fine  old  [REDACTED]  Dutch  flavor  of  the  barn  and  with-  drew.  An  hour  or  two  later,  it  proving  unfeasible  to  watch  them  through  field  glasses  from  our  bedroom,  I  sauntered  out  to  investigate.  Compost,  in  a  display  of  almost  inhuman  energy,  had  singlehand-  edly  primed  two-thirds  of  the  exterior,  nailed  fast  all  the  bat-  tens,  replaced  the  corrugated  iron  on  the  silo,  given  the  hardware  an  under-  coat  of  red  oxide,  and  now  straddled  the  roof  in  suicidal  fashion,  batting  away  pigeons  as  he  daubed  the  crevices  in  the  forepeak.  His  partner,  Mulch,  was  nowhere  in  evidence,  and,  horrid  as  the  surmise  was,  I  wondered  wheth-  er  he  had  crept  off  into  the  fields  to  die.  My  fears  were  shortly  assuaged;  he  was  stretched  out  in  our  hammock  under  the  maples,  sneezing  convulsive,  ly  and  disfigured  by  angry  red  blotches.  &quot;Touch  of  ragweed,  eh?&quot;  I  said,  expertly  sizing  up  the  dilated  pupils  and  the  flaccid  wrists.  &quot;Still,  it  could  be  the  shellac  fumes-I  recall  some  mention  of  that  by  my  preceptor  in  pharmacology  class.  Well,  stiff  upper  " b"54  lip-we'll  soon  set  you  right.&quot;  I  compounded  a  weak  solution  of  bicar-  bonate,  syrup  of  figs,  and  Dijon  mustard-  which  I  would  have  preferred  to  adminis-  ter  intravenously,  but  pulse  and  respiration  (my  own,  that  is)  dic-  tated  otherwise-and  he  managed  to  ingest  it.  Distressing  to  report,  his  symptoms  persisted,  and  I  was  thoroughly  nonplussed  by  the  time  Trautwein  appeared  at  dusk  to  check  on  his  workmen.  He  betrayed  marked  evasiveness  at  my  queries  about  Mulch,  but  eventually  unbosomed  himself.  The  man  was  total-  ly  allergic  to  work;  if  he  so  much  as  picked  up  abrush,  in  fact,  wave  after  wave  of  histamine  surged  through  his  system,  utterly  devitalizing  him.  &quot;It  happens  on  every  [REDACTED];  hecon-  fessed.  &quot;Sometimes  he  can't  even  get  out  of  the  truck,  poor  bastard.  It's  the  exact  opposite  with  Howard,  though.&quot;  He  pointed  up  at  the  ridgepole,  where  Compost  was  balanced  like  Bird  Mill-  man,  frenziedly  smearing  away  at  his  perch  in  the  half  darkness.  &quot;Now,  him,  he's  liable  to  goon  all  night.  I  wouldn't  dare  stop  him,  else  he'd  come  down  with  withdrawal  pangs.  You  got  to  know  how  to  handle  these  fellows.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Pll  tell  you  one  way,&quot;  I  suggested.  &quot;Why  don't  you  put  on  two  work  addicts?  They'd  finish  the  chore  in  half  the  time.&quot;  &quot;You  mean,  leave  Russell  go?&quot;  he  asked  incredulously.  &quot;Er-only  temporarily,  until  the  job  is  finished,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Fair  is  fair,  but  to  pay  someone  for  lounging  in  a  ham-  mock-&quot;  Trautwein's  lips  tightened.  &quot;I  ought  to  report  you  to  the  authorities,&quot;  he  said,  outraged.  &quot;Aren't  you  ashamed,  preventing  a  man  from  working  just  because  his  tissues  are  sensitive?  He's  got  dependents,  little  kiddies  that  you're  taking  the  bread  out  of  their  mouths.  I  never  heard  anything  so  heartless.&quot;  I  was  tempted  to  point  out  that  if  the  kiddies,  like  his  own,  were  hang-  ing  on  the  phone  giving  out  misin-  formation,  they  were  too  busy  to  eat,  but  I  forbore.  At  length,  we  hit  on  a  modus  vivendi;  Compost  would  be  asked  to  paint  with  two  brushes  to  compensate  for  his  colleague,  the  oth-  er's  wages  to  be  reduced  by  half.  It  was  an  equitable  solution,  and  one,  I     felt,  that  would  enable  us  to  dwell  to-  gether  in  harmony.  An  hour  before  daylight  next  morn-  ing,  the  dogs  set  up  a  hideous  brouhaha.  Compost  had  driven  in,  trained  a  searchlight  on  the  barn,  and,  to  the  accompaniment  of  the  &quot;Washington  Post  March,&quot;  was  scraping  the  ac-  cumulated  rust  from  the  spouting.  Mulch,  on  the  other  hand,  failed  to  surface  until  eleven,  After  a  few  nerve-  less  brushstrokes,  he  fell  head  fore-  most  into  the  hollyhocks  and  had  to  be  transferred  to  the  screened  porch,  on  which  I  could  supervise  his  tempera-  ture  more  closely  and  supply  him  with  barley  water  and  magazines.  As  a  small  token  of  appreciation  for  Com-  post's  zeal,  my  wife  made  up  a  picnic  basket  containing  a  block  of  foie  gras,  a  Cornish  hen,  and  an  excellent  MA-  con,  but  the  gesture  was  futile;  he  in-  sisted  on  working  through  lunch.  His  partner,  though,  got  down  the  colla-  tion,  and,  indeed,  revived  sufficiently  to  sip  a  viewx  mare  and  smoke  a  cigar.  Improvising  a  sphygmomanometer  from  a  bicycle  pump  and  the  gauge  off  an  old  hot-water  heater-we  medical  people  are  trained  to  usethe  materials  at  hand-I  took  his  blood  pressure  and  found  it  encouraging.  We  were  not  out  of  the  woods  yet,  but,  provided  Mulch  had  plenty  of  rest  and  never  lifted  a  finger  again,  there  was  every  indication  he  would  pull  through.  The  picture  up  at  the  barn,  how-  ever,  was  less  reassuring.  By  night-  fall,  Compost's  exertions,  far  from  slackening,  had  redoubled;  temporarily  forswearing  his  brush,  he  had  hauled  aloft  half  an  acre  of  slate  and  was  patching  the  roof.  At  ten-thirty,  as  my  wife  and  I  sat  before  Pandora's  box,  grinding  our  teeth  at  Susskind's  eu-  phuisms,  it  suddenly  dawned  on  me  &quot;Go  climb  atree!&quot;  that  the  chap  had  la-  bored  seventeen  hours  without  surcease.  My  conscience  rebelled  and  I  jumped  to  my  feet.  &quot;Who  the  deuce  are  we-Simon  Legree?&quot;  I  exclaimed.  &quot;Folks'  drive  by  and  see  him  up  there,  with  the  bats  squeaking  around-  I'm  stopping  him  this  minute!&quot;  &quot;Are  you  out  your  senses?&quot;  asked,  paling.  &quot;The  fellow's  hooked-you  break  it  off  and  he'll  go  right  into  shock!  o  And  the  next  thing  you  know,  you'll  have  a  million-dollar  lawsuit  on  your  hands.&quot;  Though  the  woman's  conception  of  immunology  was  primitive,  there  was  no  denying  she  had  a  certain  legal  in-  stinct.  In  whatever  case,  the  issue  was  resolved  for  us  the  very  next  day.  Nei-  ther  Compost  nor  Mulch  showed  up,  and  the  place  was  as  deserted  as  the  Hadramaut.  I  let  twenty-four  hours  elapse  and  began  phoning  Trautwein  again,  with  the  usual  baffling  results.  Aeons  later,  he  called  back.  Mulch  had  suffered  a  relapse  while  wielding  a  toothpick  and  was  in  traction.  &quot;But  where's  Howard  Compost?  He's  the  one  that  matters,&quot;  I  expostu-  lated.  &quot;Oh,  that  two-timer,&quot;  he  said  wrathfully.  &quot;I  fired  him.  He  was  moonlighting  between  you  and  a  job  in  Perkasie.  But  don't  worry-your  barn'll  get  done  in  a  jiffy.  I'm  bring-  ing  over  three  crackerjacks  bright  and  early  tomorrow.&quot;  He  was  as  good  as  his  word.  Hardly  had  I  finished  spraying  the  antrums  for  rose  fever,  oat  fly,  and  horse  dander-  my  own  membranes  are  pretty  delicate,  but  I  don't  beat  my  breast  about  it-  when  Trautwein  roared  up  in  his  shooting  break  and  threw  down  the  tailgate.  Out  sprang  a  trio  of  needle-  nosed  youngsters  easily  identifiable  as  his-the  eldest  of  them  seven.  Whoop-  ing  and  brandishing  their  brushes,  they  swarmed  over  the  building  like  the  fol-  lowers  of  the  Mahdi  at  Khartoum,  but  they  delivered  the  goods,  all  right.  There  are  those  in  the  neighborhood,  I  hear,  who  claim  the  thing  looks  like  a  finger  painting.  Well,  I  should  wor-  ry,  I  should  fret,  I  should  marry  a  suf-  fragette.  It  sheds  water,  which  is  a  hell  of  a  lot  more  than  you  can  say  for  most  of  your  quaint  old  Pennsyl-  vania  Dutch  barns. "