 THE  PEACHES  LL  through  winter,  I  nursed  the  trees.  Always  of  a  weekend  evening,  I  found  a  little  time  for  them.  First,  though,  I  had  to  spend  the  hours  of  daylight  digging  potato  ground,  or  making  beds  for  the  new  roses,  or  clearing  wild,  stony  areas  of  ground  elder,  till  it  was  time  for  Susan  to  call  me  through  the  gray  muslin  drifts  of  evening  rain.  Too  tired  then  to  scrape  the  yellow  compacted  clay  from  my  spade,  I  left  it  to  lie  along  the  trench  in  the  wet,  the  handle  end  half  covered  with  soil  and  bits  of  gritty  flint.  After  dinner,  when  the  two  girls  were  in  bed,  I  slept  by  the  fire  an  hour  or  two.  When  I  woke,  my  hands  were  always  burning  from  the  day's  rough  press  of  the  spade  handle,  and  throbbing  along  the  cuts  made  by  brambles  'd  uprooted.  &quot;I'd  better  go  out  and  put  the  spade  away,&quot;  I  said  to  Susan  the  first  few  times,  but  then,  the  rest  of  the  winter,  &quot;PH  just       W  f  a  fg  have  an  hour  in  the  peach  house,&quot;  I  said.  The  trees  needed  care.  Whoever  had  them  before  I  bought  the  place  neglected  them  shamefully.  They  were  crucified  too  tight  against  their  wires;  over  the  years  loops  of  sharp  string  had  bitten  into  the  bark.  When  I  released  them,  cutting  the  strings  with  the  care  I'd  take  trimming  the  bandage  on  a  child's  finger,  I  thought  they  would  spring  from  their  constriction  with  a  quick  shudder  of  the  limbs.  But  the  trees  held  quite  still,  and  it  was  the  wires  that  sprang  away,  bobbing,  rat-  tling.  I  came  across  the  labels  on  the  ground,  almost  obliterated.  The  names  pleased  me,  and  I  knew  that  from  then  on  ['d  always  think  of  the  trees  as  in-  dividuals-Duke  of  York,  Peregrine,  Sea  Eagle.  I  wrote  the  names  on  new  boxwood  tags  with  a  black  wax  pencil,  speaking  the  words  over  and  over,  si-  lently,  to  myself,  With  strands  of  soft     raffia  I  hung  the  tags  from  the  shoul-  ders  of  the  trees,  at  the  division  ofthe  trunk.  When  I  brought  Susan  out  to  see  what  I  had  done,  she  said  the  trees  looked  like  off-duty  soldiers  wearing  their  identity  discs,  but  whenPd  come  out  of  the  kitchen  door  with  her  and  seen  them  across  the  dark  garden  under  the  blazing  lights  ofthe  green-  house  they  had  reminded  me  more  of  a  floodlit  Calvary  Pd  seen  one  Easter,  in  537061696e.  The  middle  tree,  Peregrine,  was  Christ.  Susan  helped  me  cut  a  dead  lateral  branch  out  of  Peregrine  that  early-  winter  night.  When  I'd  chiseled  smooth  the  edges  of  the  scar,  she  stood  in  the  little  pool  of  fallen  sawdust  next  to  me  and  held  the  pot  while  I  dressed  the  wound  with  thick  [REDACTED]  tar.  Indoors,  later  on,  we  burned  the  wood  when  the  coals  were  almost  out.  Susan  went  up  to  bed,  but  I  stayed  up  for  a  while  longer.  It  was  the  beginning  of  November.  On  the  mantelpiece,  unpetalling,  was  a  vaseof  last,  small  rosebuds  we'd  cut  from  the  frost.  I  sat  in  the  slender  warmth  from  the  peach  logs,  listening  to  the  skirr  of  a  leaf  outside  on  the  stone  path,  till  a  draft  filled  the  room  with  a  sudden  cold  smoke  and  ascented  remembrance  of  fruit.  Week  by  week,  through  December,  I  cut  out  the  rest  of  the  dead  wood.  I  piled  the  brittle  sticksin  a  corner  of  the  greenhouse,  to  keep  dry.  On  Christmas  night,  when  I  made  a  bon-  fire  in  the  garden  to  burn  a  box  crammed  with  wrapping  paper,  I  car-  ried  the  sticks  to  the  fire  and  watched  the  flames  race  through  them.  As  the  short,  unburned  ends  fell  outside  the  fire,  I  raked  them  back  to  the  white  center,  till  everything  was  consumed.  I  remembered  the  night  that  Susan  was  having  our  second  child,  Sara.  It  had  been  eight  years  before-not  in  our  last  home  but  in  the  damp,  hideous  house  we  lived  in  for  a  year,  near  Lon-  don  [REDACTED].  Unable  to  bear  Susan's  animal  moans,  the  weird  shrieks  of  her  spasms,  I'd  gone  into  the  tiny  square  of  garden  behind  the  house  and  lit  a  bonfire.  I  needed  a  thing  to  tend  all  the  while  she  was  beyond  the  reach  of  my  concern.  I  left  the  kitchen  door  wedged  open,  so  that  her  mother  and  the  midwife  would  know  where  to  find  me,  and  then  I  built  the  fire  with  newspapers,  old  lumber,  anything  that  would  burn.  All  through  the  night,  I  kept  it  alive,  a  neat,  fierce  circle.  Ev-  ery  few  seconds,  planes  roared  and  whined  over  the  rooftops,  coming  in  to  land.  By  first  light,  I  burned  the  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  parcel  of  afterbirth  the  midwife  gave  me  to  de-  strov.  I  drew  the  clicking  embers  over  it,  and  left  it,  a  glowing  cone.  When  I  went  in,  they  were  wash-  ing  Susan's  face  and  tidy-  ing  her  hair,  and  I  saw  the  baby  wrapped  in  a  white  shawl,  lying  in  her  cot.  I  remembered,  too,  as  I  drew  the  ashes  of  peach  wood  into  a  cone,  how  the  wind  had  sprungup  the  following  day  and  scattered  the  remains  of  the  fire  into  squalid,  ran-  dom  patches  over  the  soil  of  that  barren  garden.  Christmas  night,  before  I  went  back  indoors,  I  found  my  spade  and  buried  the  ashes.  It  was  the  quietest  hour  of  the  year;  I  could  hear  no  traffic  on  the  roads,  no  planes  in  the  air.  When  I  was  ready  for  bed,  I  looked  into  the  girls'  bedroom,  and  kissed  them,  and  watched  the  silent  sky  through  their  window  flashing  with  beams  from  the  lightship,  far  out  to  sea.  Susan  and  I  made  comfortable,  unhurried  love,  and  we  talked  after-  ward,  quietly,  about  our  first  Christmas  in  this  house.  While  I  lay  thinking  about  my  own  vivid  happiness,  Susan  talked  from  hers,  unreflectingly,  of  small,  family  events,  of  the  pleasure  she  took  in  her  teaching  job.  I  an-  swered  her  according  to  what  she  said,  but  all  the  time  I  was  thinking,  and  wanted  to  say  to  her,  &quot;I've  never  been  as  happy  as  this.&quot;  When  she  fell  silent,  I  said,  &quot;The  trees  are  clean  now;  I've  cut  out  all  the  dead  wood,  and  burned  it,&quot;  and  she  said,  &quot;The  summer  will  be  superb.&quot;  N  the  weeks  that  followed,  I  spent  more  and  more  time  in  the  peach  house.  There  was  so  much  to  do  that  I  began  to  give  up  my  weekday  eve-  nings  to  the  trees.  Susan  grew  impa-  tient  with  me,  irritated  that  three  trees  could  demand  so  much  of  my  leisure.  With  my  fingers  I  pulled  the  soil  away  from  the  top  roots,  so  that  I  could  cut  away  the  suckers  with  a  kitchen  knife  I'd  made  razor  sharp  for  the  job.  I  forked  over  the  whole  plot,  working  in  decayed  compost  to  hold  moisture,  and  lime  for  the  fruits  to  use  to  set  their  stones.  The  top  growths  of  Duke  of  York  and  Peregrine  were  touching  the  glass  of  the  roof;  I  had  to  ease  the  branches  down,  very  grad-  ually,  by  suspending  weights  from  them.  Every  other  night,  I  added  a  few  ounces  more,  until  the  end  stems  were  clear.  All  this  took  time,  and  all  my  patience.  And  then  began  the  slow  task  of  tying  the  branches  loosely  back  to  the  wires,  and  the  hundreds  of  breastwood  stems  back  to  their  branches.  By  the  time  the  job  was  fin-  ished,  it  was  February;  the  blossom  buds  were  already  beginning  to  swell.  I  scrubbed  the  trunks  with  disinfectant,  and  sprayed  the  trees  against  leaf  curl  and  red  spider.  All  the  glass  had  to  be  washed,  inside  and  out,  so  that  the  blossom,  when  it  burst,  would  have  the  full  benefit  of  the  year's  early,  fugi-  tive  sunshine.  I  put  two  coats  of  white  paint  on  the  woodwork  inside  the  house.  I  brushed  down  the  brickwork  and  applied  three  coats  of  whitewash.  There  were  fifteen  panes  of  glass  I  had  to  re-putty.  The  ventilator  cords  were  worn,  and  I  replaced  them.  The  buds  began  to  open  even  be-  fore  the  first  noticeably  warm  day.  I  called  my  elder  daughter,  Elizabeth,  to  see  them.  She  went  to  fetch  her  mother  out,  and  Sara,  to  see  them,  too.  But  Susan  wouldn't  come.  As  the  days  went  by  and  more  and  more  of  the  lovely  pink  flowers  opened,  still  she  wouldn't  come.  I  was  miserable,  for  I  wanted  her  to  share  my  pleasure.  It  seemed  to  me  that  she  was  being  petulant;  she  re-  sented  all  the  hours  she'd  had  to  spend  alone,  I  thought,  and  now  she  was  paying  me  out.  We  nearly  had  a  row  about  it.  But  then  she  cried  and  told  me  I  was  wrong,  that  it  was  nothing  to  do  with  the  trees.  She  said  she  thought  she  was  going  to  have  another  baby,  and  she  was  afraid.  She  didn't  want  to  have  to  go  through  it  all  again,  she  said;  she  couldn't  face  the  pain.  I  held  her  tightly  in  my  arms,  but  I  couldn't  reassure  her.  Everything  I  said  made  her  ery  more  bitterly;  she  cried  until  she  retched  and  was  sick.  It  wasn't  just  the  pain,  she  said,  but  the  worry,  and  the  disfigurement,  and  having  to  carry  the  baby  in  her  through  the  hot  months  of  summer.  And  not  only  these  things.  She'd  have  to  give  up  teaching  and  be  tied  to  the  house  all  day.  Now  that  Elizabeth  and  Sara  were  growing  up,  she'd  been  looking  forward  to  being  free  again;  it  would  take  another  eight  years  of  her  life  to  reach  the  kind  of  freedom  she  was  be-  ginning  to  enjoy.  We'd  decided  when  Sara  was  born  not  to  have  any  more  children.  She  didn't  want  another  baby.  Another  baby  would  spoil  everything.  We'd  need  a  bigger  house  after  a  year  or  two,  especially  if  the  child  was  a  boy  and  needed  a  room  of  his  own.  She  didn't  want  to  move  house  again.  She  loved  it  here,  she  said.  Everything  " b"58  was  going  so  well  until  this  had  to  happen.  She  fell  asleep  fully  clothed  on  top  of  the  bed.  I  took  a  spare  blan-  ket  from  the  airing  cupboard,  and  cov-  ered  her  with  it,  and  left  her.  We  didn't  have  much  to  say  to  each  other  for  the  next  few  days.  I  thought  she'd  probably  get  used  to  the  idea  of  having  a  new  baby,  and  accept-with  gladness,  even-the  ordeal  of  another  difficult  childbirth  and  the  limitation  of  her  freedom.  IfI  gave  her  time  and  didn't  importune  her  with  comforting  words,  perhaps  she'd  come  to  me,  smil-  ing,  and  say,  &quot;Well,  you  know  what  they  say-new  house,  new  baby.&quot;  That's  what  her  mother  had  said  the  day  we  moved  here,  last  July.  So  for  most  of  the  time  I  was  home  during  the  sunny  week  of  full,  open  blossom  I  kept  away  from  her  and  busied  myself  pollinating  the  flowers.  One  early  morning,  I  shot  a  rabbit,  and  when  I  had  skinned  and  drawn  it,  ready  for  Susan  to  cook,  I  tied  the  scut  to  a  bamboo  to  pass  from  blossom  to  blossom.  The  trees  had  produced  such  an  abundance  of  flowers  that  it  was  difficult  to  remember  which  ones  I'd  touched  with  the  rabbit's  tail.  I  tried  to  go  over  the  branches  systematically,  but  I  worried  about  Susan  all  the  time,  and  I  found  that  I  was  working  hap-  hazardly-carelessly  sometimes,  break-  ing  petals  and  entire  flowers  from  the  stems.  Supposing  she  didn't  take  to  the  baby,  I  kept  asking  myself-supposing  it  was  born  with  her  hating  it?  If  Su-  san  didn't  tell  me  soon  that  her  feel-  ing  had  changed  about  having  another  child,  I  should  have  to  think  of  some  sensible,  practical  suggestions.  Perhaps  the  baby  could  be  adopted?  No,  un-  thinkable-people  like  us  don't  give  their  babies  away.  We've  money  enough,  we're  secure,  we're  capable  of  love.  Then  perhaps  Elizabeth  and  Sara  could  do  a  great  deal  to  help?  Elizabeth  was  fourteen  years  old,  near-  ly  a  woman  herself.  No-it  wouldn't  be  fair  to  expect  her  to  do  more  than  a  daughternormally  would.  Perhaps  we  could  afford  to  have  a  woman  to  help  with  the  housework?  Yes-that  was  feasible,  though  I  knew  that  Susan  would  hate  to  have  anybody  around  all  the  time  helping  to  run  the  house.  I  would  hate  it,  too,  I  thought.  Nothing  could  replace  a  mother's  own  care  of  her  child,  or  a  wife's  concern  for  her  home.  Nothing  could  alter  the  fact  that  the  birth  was  going  to  be  diffi-  cult-dangerous,  even.  I  dabbed  my  anxicty  at  the  trees.  I  was  certain  I  had  missed  whole  areas  of  the  blos-  som,  but  by  the  end  of  the  week  the  first  bees  were  flying  and  I  opened  the  ventilators  wide  for  them  to  finish  off  the  job.  IT\xe2\x80\x99S  the  end  of  June  now.  I  haven't  spent  much  time  in  the  peach  house  since  the  blossom  set.  I've  done  none  of  the  things  that  should  have  been  done.  The  little  fruits  should  have  been  thinned  out  several  times  after  they  formed  their  stones;  it's  a  job  you  should  spread  over  three  orfour  weeks,  till  only  one  or  two  are  left  on  each  stem.  When  the  leaf  shoots  started  to  sprout,  I  should  have  rubbed  off  most  of  them.  As  the  new  breastwood  grew,  " b"   it  should  have  been  tied  back  with  raf-  fia  so  that  the  sunlight  could  fall  on  the  fruit.  Every  single  day,  the  roots  should  have  been  doused,  and  in  the  evenings  I  should  have  sprayed  the  leaves  with  rainwater  from  the  butt.  The  glass  should  have  been  painted  with  summercloud,  to  protect  the  trees  from  the  direct  glare  of  this  fierce  June  sun.I've  neglected  to  do  all  these  things.  When  I  went  into  the  green-  house  this  morning,  I  saw  that  the  temperature  was  well  over  a  hundred  degrees.  The  earth  was  blanched  and  powdery,  and  the  thick  bunches  of  dry,  curling  foliage  were  acrawl  with  red  spider.  The  ventilators  were  shut,  and  I  left  them  shut.  All  over  the  floor  there  were  hundreds  of  stunted  little  fruits-bright  red,  but  without  flesh  between  the  skin  and  the  stone.  I  went  indoors  and  heard  Elizabeth  say  to  Sara,  &quot;Another  fortnight  and  we'll  have  been  here  a  whole  year.&quot;  I  thought  I'd  say  that  to  Susan  when  she  got  back  from  shopping.  &quot;Do  you  remember  what  we  were  doing  this  time  last  year?&quot;  I'd  have  said,  too.  But  when  she  came  in  she  was  dis-  tressed  from  the  heat  and  the  shops  crowded  with  summer  visitors.  She  has  begun  to  look  huge  and  swollen,  even  though  the  baby  is  not  due  until  September.  &quot;I  told  you  that  d  do  the  shopping,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;or  one  of  the  girls  could  have  gone.&quot;  &quot;It's  no  use,  I've  just  got  to  face  up  to  it,&quot;  she  said.  She's  been  say-  ing  that  often  lately.  She  works  even  harder  than  she  used  to,  and  is  grim  and  unsmiling.  The  girls  sometimes  offer  to  help  her  with  the  cooking  and  the  laundry,  but  she  snaps  them  away.  I  went  out  into  the  garden  to  pick  her  some  flowers.  This  time  last  year,  we  were  pre-  paring  to  move  house.  In  the  evenings,  we  drove  over  and  walked  through  the  empty  rooms  straight  into  the  garden.  We  picked  heavy  bunches  of  the  roses  that  were  not  yet  ours.  The  girls  beat  paths  through  thickets  of  nettles,  finding  broken  toys  and  soft  rubber  balls,  white  and  perished.  It  was  well  after  sunset  before  we  could  bear  to  leave  the  garden  and  go  into  the  house  to  take  measurements  for-  curtains  and  carpets.  Susan  and  the  girls  would  wait  for  me  then  in  the  car,  while  I  carried  buckets  of  water  out  to  the  trees  through  the  dark.  Whoever  had  owned  them  had  thinned  out  the  fruits,  which  were  plump  and  ripening.  The  week  after  we  moved  in,  many  were  ready  to  eat.  All  our  friends  came  to  visit  us  in  our  new  home.  Pd  take  them  into  the  kitchen  and  say,  &quot;We've  nothing  in  the  house  to  offer  you  but  peaches.&quot;  I'd  set  before  them  a  dish  of  large,  unblemished  fruits  resting  on  vine  leaves.  In  the  mornings,  still  in  my  pajamas,  I  went  to  the  greenhouse  and  picked  enough  for  our  breakfast.  I  sent  two  in  a  cardboard  box  to  my  brother  in  [REDACTED].  One  afternoon,  when  I  was  on  my  own,  I  crushed  one  in  my  hand;  the  juice  and  the  mashed  white  flesh  oozed  between  my  fingers,  to  spoil,  untasted,  on  the  grass.  "