KIERKEGAARD  UNFAIR  TO  SCHLEGEL  I  usethe  girl  on  the  train  a  lot.  e  I'm  on  a  train,  a  European  train  with  compartments.  A  young  girl  en-  ters  and  sits  opposite  me.  She  is  blond,  wearing  a  short-sleeved  sweater,  a  short  skirt.  The  sweater  has  white  and  blue  stripes,  the  skirt  is  dark  blue.  The  girl  has  a  book,  &quot;Introduction  to  French&quot;  or  something  like  that.  We  are  in  [REDACTED]  but  she  is  not  French.  She  has  a  book  and  a  pencil.  She's  extremely  self-conscious.  She  opens  the  book  and  begins  miming  close  attention,  you  know,  making  marks  with  the  pencil  at  various  points.  Meanwhile  I  am  carefully  looking  out  of  the  window,  regarding  the  terrain.  I'm  trying  to  avoid  looking  at  her  legs.  The  skirt  has  raised  itself  a  bit,  you  see,  there  is  alot  of  leg  to  look  at.  I'm  also  trying  to  avoid  looking  at  her  breasts.  They  ap-  pear  to  be  free  under  the  white-and-  blue  sweater.  There  is  asmall  gold  pin  pinned  to  the  sweater  on  the  left  side.  It  has  lettering  on  it.  I  can't  make  out  what  it  says.  The  girl  shifts  in  her  seat,  moves  from  side  to  side,  adjusting  her  position.  She's  very  very  self-aware.  All  her  movements  are  just  ashade  overdone.  The  book  is  in  her  lap.  Her  legs  are  fairly  wide  apart,very  tanned,  the  color  of-  Q:  That's  a  very  common  fantasy.  A:  All  my  fantasies  are  extremely  ordinary.  Q:  Does  it  give  you  pleasure?  A:  A  poor  ...  A  rather  unsatisfac-  tory  ...  Q:  What  is  the  frequency?  A:  Oh  God  who  knows.  Once  in  a  while.  Sometimes.  Q:  You're  not  cooperating.  A:  I'm  not  interested.  Q:  I  might  do  an  article.  A:  I  don't  like  to  have  my  picture  taken,  Q  :  Solipsism  plus  triumphantism.  A:  It's  possible.  Q:  You're  not  political?  A:  I'm  extremely  political  in  a  way  that  does  no  good  to  anybody.  Q:  You  don't  participate?  A:  I  participate.  I  make  demands,  sign  newspaper  advertisements,  vote.  I  make  small  campaign  contributions  to  the  candidate  of  my  choice  and  turn  my  irony  against  the  others.  But  I  ac-  complish  nothing.  I  march,  it's  ludi-  crous.  In  the  last  march,  there  were  eighty-seven  thousand  people  marching,  by  the  most  conservative  estimate,  and  yet  being  in  the  midst  of  them,  march,  ing  with  them  ...I  wanted  to  march  with  the  Stationary  Engineers,  march  under  their  banner,  but  two  cops  pre-  vented  me,  they  saidI  couldn't  enter  at  that  point,  I  had  to  go  back  to  the  beginning.  So  I  went  back  to  the  begin-  ning  and  marched  with  the  Food  Han-  dlers  for  Peace  and  Freedom.  ():  What  sort  of  people  were  they?  A:  They  looked  just  like  everybody  else.  It's  possible  they  weren't  real  food  handlers.  Maybe  just  the  two  holding  the  sign.I  don't  know.  There  were  a  lot  of  girls  in  black  pajamas  and  peasant  straw  hats,  very  young  girls,  high-school  girls,  running,holding  hands  in  a  long  chain,  laughing.  .  ..  Q:  You've  been  pretty  hard  on  our  machines.  You've  withheld  your  en-  thusiasm,  that's  damaging.  ...  A:  I'm  sorry.  Q:  Do  you  think  your  irony  could  be  helpful  in  changing  the  govern-  ment!  A:  I  think  the  government  is  very  often  in  an  ironic  relation  to  itself.  And  that's  helpful.  For  example:  we're  spending  a  great  deal  of  money  for  this  army  we  have,a  very  large  army,  beautifully  equipped.  We're  spending  something  on  the  order  of  twenty  bil-  lions  a  year  for  it.  Now,  the  whole  point  of  an  army  is-what's  the  word?  terrence.  And  the  nut  of  deterrence  is  credibility.  So  what  does  the  government  do?  It  goes  and  sells  off  its  surplus  uniforms.  And  the  kids  start  wear-  ing  them,  uniforms  or  partsof  uniforms,  be-  cause  they're  cheap  and  have  some  sort  of  style.  And  immediate-  ly  you  get  this  vast  clown  army  in  the  streets  parodying  the  real  army.  And  they  mix  periods,  you  know,  you  get  parody  British  grenadiers  and  parody  World  War  I  types  and  parody  Sierra  Maestra  types.  So  you  have  all  these  kids  walk-  ing  around  wearing  these  filthy  uni-  forms  with  wound  stripes,  hash  marks,  Silver  Stars,  but  also  ostrich  feathers,  Day-Glo  vests,  amulets  containing  powdered  rhinoceros  horn.  .  ..  You  have  this  splendid  clown  army  in  the  streets  standing  over  against  the  real  one.  And  of  course  the  clown  army  constitutes  a  very  serious  attack  on  all  the  ideas  which  support  the  real  army  including  the  basic  notion  of  having  an  army  at  all.  The  government  has     opened  itself  to  all  this,  this  undermin-  ing  of  its  own  credibility,  just  because  it  wants  to  make  a  few  dollars  ped-  dling  old  uniforms.  ...  :  How  is  my  car?  :  How  is  my  nail?  :  How  is  the  taste  of  my  potato?  :  How  is  the  cook  of  my  potato?  :  How  is  my  garb?  :  How  is  my  button?  :  How  is  the  flower  bath?  :  How  is  the  shame?  :  How  is  the  plan?  :  How  is  the  fire?  :  How  is  the  flue?  :  How  is  my  mad  mother?  :  How  is  the  aphorism  I  left  with  as  you!  :  You  are  an  ironist.  :  It's  useful.  :  How  isit  useful?  A:  Well,  let  me  tell  you  a  story.  Several  years  ago  I  was  living  in  a  rented  house  in  [REDACTED].  The  house  was  what  is  called  a  rancher-three  or  four  bedrooms,  knotty  pine  or  some  such  on  the  inside,  cedar  shakes  or  something  like  that  on  the  outside.  It  was  owned  by  a  ski  instructor  who  lived  there  with  his  family  in  the  win-  ter.  It  had  what  seemed  to  be  hun-  dreds  of  closets  and  we  immediately  discovered  that  these  closets  were  filled  to  overflowing  with  all  kinds  ofplay  equip-  ment.  Never  in  my  life  had  I  seen  so  much  play  equipment  gath-  ered  together  in  one  place  outside,  say,  Aber-  crombie's.  There  were  bows  and  arrows  and  shuffleboard  and  cro-  quet  sets,  putting  greens  and  trampolines  and  things  that  you  strapped  to  your  feet  and  jumped  up  and  down  on,  table  tennis  and  jai  alai  and  poker  chips  and  home  roulette  wheels,  chess  and  checkers  and  Chinese  checkers  and  balls  of  all  kinds,  hoops  and  nets  and  wickets,  badminton  and  books  and  a  thousand  board  games,  and  a  dingus  with  cymbals  on  top  that  you  banged  on  the  floor  to  keep  time  to  the  piano.  The  merest  drawer  in  a  bedside  table  was  choked  with  marked  cards  and  Monopoly  money.  Now,  suppose  I  had  been  of  an  iron-  ical  turn  of  mind  and  wanted  to  make  a  joke  about  all  this,  some  sort  of  joke  that  would  convey  that  I  had  noticed  the  striking  degree  of  boredom  implied  C&gt;  \xc2\xa9  " b"  by  the  presence  of  all  this  impedimenta  and  one  which  would  also  serve  to  comment  upon  the  particular  way  of  struggling  with  boredom  that  these  peo-  ple  had  chosen.  I  might  have  said,  for  instance,  that  the  remedy  is  worse  than  the  disease.  Or  quoted  Nietzsche  to  the  effect  that  the  thought  of  suicide  is  a  great  consolation  and  had  helped  him  through  many  a  bad  night.  Either  of  these  perfectly  good  jokes  would  do  to  annihilate  the  situation  of  being  un-  comfortable  in  this  house.  The  shuffie-  board  sticks,  the  barbells,  balls  of  all  kinds--my  joke  has,  in  effect,  thrown  them  out  of  the  world.  An  amazing  magical  power!  Now,  suppose  that  I  am  suddenly  curious  about  this  amazing  magical  power.  Suppose  I  become  curious  about  how  my  irony  actually  works  how  it  functions.  I  pick  up  a  copy  of     \xc2\xae  LJ  Kierkegaard's  &quot;The  Concept  of  Irony&quot;  (the  ski  instructor  is  also  a  student  of  Kierkegaard)  and  I  am  immediately  plunged  into  difficulties.  The  situation  bristles  with  difficulties.  To  begin  with,  Kierkegaard  saysthat  the  outstand-  ing  feature  of  irony  is  that  it  confers  upon  the  ironist  a  subjective  freedom.  The  subject,  the  speaker,  is  negative-  ly  free.  If  what  the  ironist  says  is  not  his  meaning,  or  is  the  opposite  of  his  meaning,  he  is  free  both  in  relation  to  others  and  in  relation  to  himself.  He  is  not  bound  by  what  he  has  said.  Irony  is  a  means  of  depriving  the  object  of  its  reality  in  order  thatthe  subject  may  feel  free.  Irony  deprives  the  ob-  ject  of  its  reality  when  the  ironist  says  something  about  the  object  that  is  not  what  he  means.  Kierkegaard  distin-  guishes  between  the  phenomenon  (the  word)  and  the  essence  (the  thought  OCTOBER  12,  19  68  or  meaning).  Truth  de-  mands  an  identity  of  es-  sence  and  phenomenon.  But  with  irony  quote  the  phenomenon  is  not  the  essence  but  the  op-  posite  of  the  essence  un-  quote  page  264.  The  ob-  ject  is  deprived.  of  its  reality  by  what  I  have  said  about  it.  Regarded  in  an  ironical  light,  the  object  shivers,  shatters,  disappears.  Irony  is  thus  destructive  and  what  Kierkegaard  worries  about  a  lot  is  that  irony  has  nothing  to  put  in  the  place  of  what  it  has  de-  stroyed.  The  new  actu-  ality-what  the  ironist  has  said  about  the  ob-  ject-is  peculiar  in  that  it  is  a  comment  upon  a  former  actuality  rather  than  a  new  actuality.  This  account  of  Kerke-  gaard's  account  of  irony  is  grossly  oversimplified.  Now,  consider  an  iron}  directed  not  against  a  given  object  but  against  the  whole  of  existence.  An  irony  directed  against  the  whole  of  existence  produces,  according  to  Kierkegaard,  estrange-  ment  and  poetry.  The  jronist,  serially  successful  in  disposing  of  various  objects  of  his  irony,  becomes  drunk  with  freedom.  He  becomes,  in  Kierkegaard's  words,  lighter  and  lighter.  Irony  becomes  an  infinite  absolute  negativity.  Quote  irony  no  longer  directs  itself  against  this  or  that  particular  phenomenon,  against  a  particular  thing  unquote.  Quote  the  whole  of  existence  has  become  alien  to  the  ironic  subject  unquote  page276.  For  Kierkegaard,  the  actuality  of  irony  is  poetry.  This  may  be  clarified  by  ref-  erence  to  Kierkegaard's  treatment  of  Schlegel.  Schlegel  had  written  a  book,  a  novel,  called  &quot;Lucinde.&quot;  Kierkegaard  is  very  hard  on  Schlegel  and  &quot;Lucinde.&quot;  Kierkegaard  characterizes  this  novel  of  Schlegel's  as  quote  poetical  unquote  page  308.  By  which  he  means  to  sug-  gest  that  Schlegel  has  constructed  an  actuality  which  is  superior  to  the  his-  torical  actuality  and  a  substitute  for  it.  By  negating  the  historical  actuality  poetry  quote  opens  up  a  higher  ac-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  tuality,  expands  and  transfigures  the  imperfect  into  the  perfect,  and  there-  by  softens  and  mitigates  that  deep  pain  which  would  darken  and  obscure  all  things  unquote  page  312.  That's  beautiful.  Now  this  would  seem  to  be  a  victory  for  Schlegel,  and  indeed  Kierkegaard  saysthat  poetry  is  a  vic-  tory  over  the  world.  But  it  is  not  the  case  that  &quot;Lucinde&quot;  is  a  victory  for  Schlegel.  What  is  wanted,  Kierkegaard  says,  is  not  a  victory  over  the  world  but  areconciliation  with  the  world.  And  itis  soon  discovered  that  although  poetry  is  a  kind  of  reconciliation,  the  distance  between  the  new  actuality,  higher  and  more  perfect  than  the  his-  torical  actuality,  and  the  historical  ac-  tuality,  lower  and  more  imperfect  than  the  new  actuality,  produces  not  a  rec-  onciliation  but  animosity.  Quote  so  that  it  often  becomes  no  reconcilia-  tion  at  all  but  rather  animosity  unquote  same  page.  What  began  as  a  victory  eventuates  in  animosity.  The  true  task  is  reconciliation  with  actuality,  and  the  true  reconciliation,  Kierkegaard  says,  is  religion.  Without  discussing  whether  or  not  the  true  reconciliation  is  religion  (I  have  a  deep  bias  against  re-  ligion  which  precludes  my  discussing  the  question  intelligently)  let  me  say  that  I  believe  that  Kierkegaard  is  here  unfair  to  Schlegel.  I  find  it  hard  to  persuade  myself  that  the  relation  of  Schlegel's  novel  to  actuality  is  what  Kierke-  gaard  says  it  is.  I  have  reasons  for  this  (I  believe,  for  example,  that  Kierke-  gaard  fastens  upon  Schlegel's  novel  in  its  prescriptive  aspect-in  which  it  presents  itself  as  a  text  telling  us  how  to  live-and  neglects  other  aspects,  its  objecthood  for  one)  but  my  reasons  are  not  so  interesting.  What  is  interesting  is  my  making  the  statement  that  I  think  Kierkegaard  is  unfair  to  Schlegel.  And  that  the  whole  thing  is  nothing  else  buta  damned  shame  and  crime!     Because  that  is  not  what  I  think  at  all.  We  have  to  do  here  with  my  own  irony.  Because  of  course  Kierkegaard  was  &quot;fair&quot;  to  Schlegel.  In  making  a  statement  to  the  contrary  I  am  at-  tempting  to  ...I  might  have  several  purposes-simply  being  provocative,  for  example.  But  mostly  I  am  trying  to  annihilate  Kierkegaard  in  order  to  deal  with  his  disapproval.  Q:  Of  Schlegel?  A:  Of  me.  Q:  What  is  she  doing  now?  A  :  She  appears  to  be-  Q:  How  does  she  look?  A:  Self-absorbed.  Q:  That's  not  enough.  You  can't  just  say,  &quot;Self-absorbed.&quot;  You  have  to  give  more.  ...  You've  made  a  sort  of  promise  which  ...  A:  Q:  Are  her  eyes  closed?  A:  Her  eyes  are  open.  She's  staring.  Q:  What  is  she  staring  at?  A:  Nothing  that  I  can  see.  Q:  And?  A:  She's  dropped  the  sunglasses.  Q:  And?  A:  She's  caressing  her  breasts.  Q:  Still  wearing  the  blouse?  A:  Yes.  Q.  A  yellow  blouse?  A:  Blue.  A:  Sunday.  We  took  the  baby  to  Central  Park.  At  the  Children's  Zoo  she  wanted  to  ride  a  baby  [REDACTED]  pony  which  appeared  to  be  about  ten  minutes  old.  Howled  when  told  she  could  not.  Then  into  a  meadow  (not  a  real  meadow  but  an  excuse  for  a  meadow)  for  ball-throwing.  I  slept  last  night  on  the  couch  rather  than  in  the  bed.  The  couch  is  harder  and  when  I  can't  sleep  I  need  a  harder  surface.  Dreamed  that  my  father  told  me  that  my  work  was  garbage.  Mr.  Gar-  bage,  he  called  me  in  the  dream.  Then,  at  dawn,  the  baby  woke  me  again.  She  had  taken  off  her  night-  clothes  and  climbed  into  a  pillowease.  She  was  standing  by  the  couch  in  the  pillowcase,  as  if  at  the  starting  line  of  a  sack  race.  When  we  got  back  from  the  park  I  finished  reading  the  Hitchcock-Truffaut  book.  In  the  Hitchcock-Truffaut  book  there  is  a  passage  in  which  Truffaut  comments  on  &quot;Psycho.&quot;  &quot;If  I'm  not  mistak-  en,  out  of  your  fifty  works,  this  is  the  only  film  showing  ...&quot;  Janet  Leigh  in  a  bra.  And  Hitchcock  says:  &quot;But  the  scene  would  have  been  more  interesting  if  the  girl's  bare  breasts  had  been  rubbing  against  the  man's  chest.&quot;  That's  true.  H.  and  S.  came  for  supper.  Veal  Scaloppine  Marsala  and  very  well  done,  with  green  noo-  dles  and  salad.  Buckets  of  vodka  be-  fore  and  buckets  of  brandy  after.  The  brandy  depressed  me.  Some  talk  about  the  new  artists'  tenement  being  made  out  of  an  old  warehouse  build-  ing.  H.  said,  &quot;I  hear  it's  going  to  be  very  classy.  I  hear  it's  going  to  have  white  rats.&quot;  H.  spoke  about  his  former  wife  and  toothbrushes:  &quot;She  was  al-  ways  at  it,  fiercely,  many  hours  a  day  and  night.&quot;  I  don't  know  if  this  stuff  is  useful.  ...  Q:  I'm  not  your  doctor.  A:  Pity.  A:  But  I  love  my  irony.  Q:  Does  it  give  you  pleasure?  A:  A  poor  ...  A  rather  unsatisfac-  tory  ...  Q:  The  unavoidable  tendency  of  everything  particular  to  emphasize  its  own  particularity.  A:  Yes.  Q:  You  could  interest  yourself  in  these  interesting  machines.  They're  hard  to  understand.  They're  time-  consuming.  A:  I  don't  like  you.  Q:  I  sensed  it.  A:  These  imbecile  questions  .  ..  Q:  Inadequately  answered  .  ..  A:  ...  imbecile  questions  leading  nowhere  .  ..  Q:  The  personal  abuse  continues.  A:  ...  that  voice,  confident  and  shrill  ...  Q  (aside):  He  has  given  away  his  gaiety,  and  now  has  nothing.  Q:  But  consider  the  moment  when  Pasteur,  distracted,  ashamed,  calls  upon  Mme.  Boucicault,  widow  of  the  de-  partment-store  owner.  Pasteur  stam-  mers,  sweats;  it  is  clear  that  he  is  there  to  ask  for  money,  money  for  his  In-  stitute.  He  becomes  more  firm,  masters  himself,  speaks  with  force,  yet  he  is  not  sure  that  she  knows  who  he  is,  that  he  is  Pasteur.  &quot;The  least  contribu-  tion,&quot;  he  says  finally.  &quot;But  of  course,&quot;  she  (equally  embarrassed)  replies.  She  writes  a  check.  He  looks  at  the  check.  One  million  francs.  They  both  burst  into  tears.  A  (bitterly):  Yes,  that  makes  up  for  everything,  that  you  know  that  story.  "