"INTERIOR  VYITH  FIGURES  HE  spread  of  so-called  action  sculpture  poses  a  new  problem  for  owners  of  art  objects,  or,  more  accurately,  adds  a  fresh  dimen-  sion  to  one  already  long  plaguing  them  as  homeowners.  It's  this  When  a  power-driven  assortment  of  mechanical  giblets  gleaned  from  scrapyards  goes  on  the  blink,  whom  do  you  get  to  re-  pair  it?  It's  a  headache  on  which  I  can  speak  with  authority,  possessing,  as  I  do,  a  congeries  of  available  mate-  rials  entitled  &quot;Improvisation  No.  18,&quot;  which  recently  stalled  on  me  an  hour  before  a  cocktail  party  at  which  I  planned  to  unveil  it.  The  following  playlet,  already  snapped  up  by  the  Yale  Drama  School  for  burial  in  its  archives,  may  not,  when  ultimately  unearthed  by  future  scholars,  bear  out  the  claims  for  the  black  comedy  in  which  plain  folk  are  currently  said  to  thrash,  but  it  will,  I  think,  suggest  the  occasional  mod-  est  gray  crise  to  which  we  may  all  rea-  sonably  aspire.  The  action  is,  asIsay,  autobiographical,  but  the  names  have  been  changed  to  protect  the  sheepish.  HE  curtain  does  not  rise  in  the  tediously  conventional  sense,  but  is  rather  rent  from  top  to  bottom,  to  reveal  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Brent  Paternos-  ter,  in  party  fig,  anxiously  watching  an  electrician  who  is  lying  on  his  back  un-  der  an  exciting  assemblage  of  pipes,  belts,  and  blades-indeed,  the  work  of  an  artist  of  more  than  promise.  Pater-  noster  paces  and  glances  at  his  wrist-  watch,  his  nerves,  already  a  can  of  worms,  declining  steadily  under  the  clank  of  tools  and  the  streams  of  male-  diction  floating  upward  through  the  metalwork.  At  length,  the  serviceman  crawls  out  from  under.  ELECTRICIAN:  Well,  your  trouble  ain't  electrical.  Connections  are  all  O.K.  and  so  arethe  switches,  trans-  former,  and  wall  socket.  So  'tain't  in  my  jurisdiction.  (Hurls  his  tools  into  an  open  satchel)  That'll  be  twelve-  fifty  and  a  kiss  from  the  Missus-our  standard  fee  for  a  service  call  now,  as  you  know.  Being  as  how  it's  electrical  work,  I  might  say  our  &quot;current  fee.&quot;  Oh,  that'srich!  Our  current  fee.  Mrs.  ParernosreEr:  Are  you  sure  you  understand  this  type  of  collage?  It's  by  the  noted  Swedish  sculptor,  Nils  Maelstrom.  ErercTrRICIAN:  Yes,  I'm  familiar  with  his  work.  Why  don't  you  call  him  in  to  get  her  running  for  you?  ParErnosrEr:  He  can't  be  reached.  He's  in  [REDACTED],  delivering  a  paper  at  a  learned-society  meeting.     ELECTRICIAN:  You  ask  me,  deliver-  ing  papers  is  his  what-do-you-call-it.  M\xc3\xa9tier.  (He  goes  over  to  collect  his  buss  from  the  Missus  while  Paternoster  produces  the  money.)  PaTERNOsSTER  (handing  over  the  twelve-fifty  and  making  no  secret  of  his  outrage  as  a  consumer):  And  I  voted  for  Roosevelt.  [REDACTED].  PareErnosrEr  (to  Electrician,  as  a  woman  instinctively  concerned  over  the  good  repute  of  her  posses-  sions):  What's  your  opinion  of  Mael-  strom?  EurctTRICIAN:  Oh,  he  served  his  purpose  as  an  innovator,  a  sort  of  cata-  lyst.  But  as  an  artist  I  think  he  chews  out  loud.  Still,  your  piece  here  has  its  merits.  It  conveys  a  fine  sense  of  spatial  dilapidation,  and  the  comment  in  the  pipe  joints  is  most  caustic.  That's  not  pseudo-junk,  lady.  That's  the  real  thing.  I  tell  you  what.  If  somebody  can  give  me  a  hand  with  it,  'd  be  glad  to  load  it  on  my  rig  and  run  it  down  to  some  garage  mechanic  for  a  look-  see.  Mrs.  ParernosrEr:  Oh,  you  have  a  truck  out  there?  ELECTRICIAN  :  Yes.  It's  not  much  of  a  truck-just  a  van  ordinaire.  ParErNosTER  (Anowing  offenses  must  needs  come  in  the  world,  but  woe  unto  them  by  whom  offenses  come):  I  voted  for  him  four  times.  I  went  through  the  whole  thing.  The  New  Deal,  the  Raw  Deal,  the  Ordeal  .  ..  ELECTRICIAN  (to  the  woman):  It  must  be  a  drag  for  you,  with  Mr.  Nos-  talgia  here  casting  backward  glances  like  anything.  Still,  my  grandfather  al-  ways  said  the  Roosevelt  era  was  a  great  one.  Trust-busting,  the  charge  up  San  Juan  Hill-  ParErNosTER:  You  may  go!  (Mrs.  Paternoster  strolls  to  the  door  with  the  Electrician,  and  as  they  pass  the  sculpture  she  is,  again,  defen-  sive  about  her  taste.)  Mrs.  ParErnostEr:  The  whole  point  of  this  sort  of  thing  is,  of  course,  to  make  do  with  available  materials.     37  ErEcrTRICIAN  (with  a  glance  at  Paternoster):  Don't  we  all.  (Exiting  with  his  bag  of  tools)  Well,  toodle-00.  Don't  let  your  goat  get  gotten.  (Paternoster  goes  to  the  improvisa-  tion  and  tries  to  start  it  with  a  good  kick,  withdrawing  his  foot  with  a  howl  of  pain.  He  limps  to  the  telephone,  where  he  paws  through  the  local  di-  rectory.)  Mrs.  Paternoster:  Are  you  look-  ing  up  a  phone  number?  PatERNOsTER:  Your  powers  of  divi-  nation  are  uncanny.  I'm  going  to  call  a  plumber.  The  trouble  may  be  in  the  hydraulic  assembly.  [REDACTED].  ParernostEr:  That'd  be  Mr.  Vanden  Bosch.  Here,  let  me  do  it.  (From  a  pop-up  book  of  numbers  fre-  quently  used,  she  instantly  has  the  one  she  wants  and  dials  it.)  Hello,  Mr.  Vanden  Bosch?  Why,  we're  having  a  kind  of  emergency  here  with  some-  thing  I  think  needs  a  good  plumber,  and  I  was  wondering-  Oh,  I  see.  Thank  you.  (She  hangs  up.)  He  no  longer  makes  house  calls.  PareErnostER\xc2\xae:  Look,  to  begin  with,  you  don't  handle  these  repair  people  the  wavy  you  have  to  these  days-with  kid  gloves.  You  made  your  first  boo-  boo  calling  him  a  plumber.  We  don't  call  them  that  anymore.  Mrs.  PareErnosrEr:  What  do  we  call  them?  PartErnostER:  House  urologists.  (He  seats  himself  resolutely  before  the  sculpture  to  study  it.  Doing  so,  he  props  an  elbow  on  a  knee  and  brings  a  fist  up  under  his  chin,  inadvertently  striking  the  pose  of  Rodin's  &quot;Think-  er.&quot;)  What  about  the  wash-machine  re-  pairman?  Is  that  too  farfetched?  [REDACTED].  PaTERNOSTER  :  No,  I  wouldn't  say  anything  was  too  farfetched.  Any  kind  of  tinker  at  all-if  you  could  get  one.  The  wash-machine  agency  would  just  take  our  name  and  send  us  service  when  they  could.  It  might  not  be  for  two  or  three  days.  ParErnNostER:  Well,  with  a  jam  like  this,  if  you  can't  get  a  repairman,  in  fact  don't  even  know  what  kind  you  need,  and  with  guests  due  to  begin  ar-  riving  any  minute,  there's  only  one  thing  to  do  that  I  can  think  of.  [REDACTED].  ParernosreEr:  What's  that'  Paternoster:  Hand  me  my  screw-  driver.  (She  goes  to  a  nearby  table  for  it.)  Mrs.  ParErNosTER  (taking  it  to  him):  Here  you  are.  I  made  it  with  two  jiggersof  vodka,  the  way  you  like  it,  and  the  orange  juice  is  fresh,  Brent.  Now  you  just  sit  there  and  try  to  un-  wind  till  the  others  get  here. "