"THE  HOLBORN  N  a  moonless,  starless  night  in  [REDACTED]  in  December,  1939,  my  father,  my  mother,  my  two  brothers,  my  sister,  and  I  advanced  along  the  sidewalk  warily,  a  tight-knit  little  group.  No  chink  of  light  showed  from  door  or  window.  Sometimes  a  car  went  by  with  covered,  slitted  head-  lights.  We  grazed  the  walls  and  shop-  windows,  and  groped  at  each  doorway,  hoping  one  might  open  into  a  restau-  rant.  We  were  staying  in  a  hotel  near  Russell  Square,  in  three  little  rooms  at  the  end  of  a  long,  long  corridor.  The  hotel  was  so  huge  one  could  nearly  al-  ways  get  a  room.  That,  I  think,  was  its  main  advantage,  and  the  reason  we  had  gone  there.  Murky  and  dimly  lit,  it  provided  little  contrast  to  the  blackout  outside.  Rather,  it  seemed  to  partake  of  it.  The  lampshades  in  the  lobby  were  like  hoods.  Only  directly  under  them  was  there  sufficient  light  to  read  a  paper  by.  The  darkness  from  the  street  en-  tered  as  you  entered,  weaved  its  way  around  the  heavy  lampshades,  and,  hardly  mitigated,  spread  along  corridors  and  halls  into  the  rooms.  It  was  the  sort  of  hotel  refugees  go  to,  and  that  was  what  we  were.  We  had  left  4974616c79  earli-  erthat  year  at  different  times.  My  younger  brother  and  I  were  going  to  one  boarding  school,  my  sister  to  an-  other,  my  elder  brother  was  living  in  the  home  of  an  old  friend,  my  parents,  who  had  spent  the  summer  and  fall  in  a  country  cottage,  were  looking  for  a  house  in  which  to  settle,  and  now  we  had  all  convened  in  [REDACTED]  fora  fam-  ily  reunion.  'The  hotel  must  have  had  a  restau-  rant,  but  we  certainly  didn't  want  to  eat  there,  so  we  had  gone  out.  We  had  walked  around  a  great  deal.  I  think  we  were  quite  lost.  But  we  weren't  so  much  trying  to  find  our  way  as  a  place  to  eat.  How  different  this  town  was  from  Rome,  where  practically  every  other  doorway  was  a  caf\xc3\xa9  or  a  trattoria  that,  war  or  no  war,  stayed  open  late  into  the  night.  Here  everything  was  closed,  or  seemed  to  be.  We  stopped  a  passerby  and  asked  him  if  he  knew  of  a  restaurant.  &quot;I'm  afraid  you  won't  find  anything  open  at  this  time  here,&quot;  he  said.  My  father  drew  a  tiny  flashlight  and  a  watch  from  his  pocket.  It  wasn't  even  eight.  My  God,  there  must  be  some-  thing.  We  moved  along  from  door  to  door.  Suddenly  one  gave.  I  remember  the  feel  of  it.  It  was  a  leather-covered  door,  fat  and  cushiony.  It  swung  open  as  we  pressed  it,  and  it  disclosed  light.  Light  refracted  by  crystal  chandeliers.  Light  broken  up  and  shining.  Rivulets  of  light.  It  lit  us  up.  It  bathed  us.  We  looked  at  each  other  and  felt  we  were  really  seeing  each  other  now.  We  were  in  a  restaurant-the  Holborn.  I  don't  think  I  have  ever  seen  a  res-  taurant  quite  like  it.  The  place  had  a  glow  the  chandeliers  couldn't  account  for.  It  came  from  a  fire-a  robust  flame  that  rose  from  an  open  burner  in  full  view  of  the  tables.  With  its  waver-  ing  light,  it  lit  our  faces  orange  and  made  the  shadows  dance.  A  white-  bonneted  cook  busied  himself  about  it.  And  there  were  copper  pans  so  highly  polished  they  brought  the  shield  of  Achilles  to  my  mind.  The  tables  were  beautifully  laid  with  white  linen  cloths,  fine  dishes,  long-stemmed  slender  gob-  lets,  silver,  napkins  folded  in  the  shape  of  cones,.  The  waiters  plied  between  the  tables,  carrying  full  platters  high  on  their  palms.  Although  the  room  did  not  appear  crowded,  there  were  a  great  many  guests,  some  of  them  lovely  wom-  en  with  bare  shoulders,  long  gowns,  and  hats  with  sweeping  curves.  And  there  were  wreaths  of  smoke,  like  lightest  clouds  unfolding,  and  a  min-  gled  sound  of  voices-almost  tuneful-  and  warmth,  and  softness,  and  an  un-  definable  perfume  in  the  air.  The  at-  mosphere  was  dreadfully  inviting.  So  inviting  it  seemed  almost  forbidden.  We  stood  at  the  threshold,  looking  at  my  father.  Would  he  really  let  us  eat  here?  Wasn't  this  a  bit  too  good  for  us?  He  didn't  seem  to  think  so-without  the  slight  est  hesitancy,  he  brought  us  in  toward  the  headwaiter,  who  was  coming  over.  Waiters,  especially  head-  waiters  in  black  ties  and  dinner  jackets,  have  always  made  me  feel  uneasy.  As  they  come  to  meet  me,  I  half  expect  them  either  to  refuse  to  seat  me  or  to  seat  me  at  a  table  near  the  door.  Once  seated  and  presented  with  a  menu,  lest  my  choice  meet  with  a  supercilious  frown  I  often  find  myself  ordering  an  expensive  dish-one  that  will  meet  with  their  approval  and  not  one  Ireally  want,  like  eggs  fried  in  olive  oil  or  a  Welsh  rabbit.  Not  so  my  father.  He  was  quite  rich  when  he  was  a  young  man-went  to  the  Ritz  in  [REDACTED],  climbed  the  Alps,  took  private  dancing  lessons.  He  seemed  perfectly  at  home  here.  A  slightly  built  man  in  a  blue  suit,  he  moved  nimbly,  and  the  waiter  didn't  so  much  lead  as  accompany  him  to  a  table-the  one  my       57  father  wanted,  central,  near  the  fire.  He  ordered  wine  with  our  meal,  and  soon  it  was  being  poured  from  a  bottle  wrapped  in  a  napkin  and  resting  in  a  wicker  cradle.  My  brothers  and  I  had  never  seen  such  niceties.  We  laughed.  Our  table  was  round-about  the  size  and  shape  of  the  one  we  had  at  home  in  4974616c79.  The  wine,  too,  was  about  the  same-Chianti.  It  might  have  been  from  our  own  vineyard.  As  for  the  food,  it  seemed  perfectly  grand  to  me,  used  asI  was  at  school  to  eating  only  bread,  margarine,  and  jam  for  supper.  &quot;When  the  English  set  themselves  to  it,  they  can  cook  as  well  as  anybody,&quot;  one  of  us  said.  &quot;Better,&quot;  my  younger  brother  said,  finishing  his  Yorkshire  pudding.  &quot;And  you  get  dessert  every  day,&quot;  I  said.  The  waiter,  who  kept  refilling  our  water  glasses,  suggested  plum  pudding,  and  soon,  with  a  flaming  blue  halo  and  the  smell  of  spirits  hovering  around  it,  a  plum  pudding  was  brought  in.  Later,  after  coffee,  the  check  came.  We  felt  apprehensive  round  the  table.  Did  my  father  have  enough  money?  He  had.  He  produced  a  strange  white  bill  such  as  I  had  never  seen  before-  a  five-pound  note-and  got  some  change,  which  he  left  on  the  table.  He  made  no  comment  on  the  price.  He  just  smoked  a  cigarette  and  watched  the  smoke,  contemplatively.  When  we  left,  the  headwaiter  gave  us  good  direc-  tions.  It  wasn't  very  far  to  Russell  Square.     he  OON  after  that,  the  war,  suddenly  flaring,  scattered  us,  and  not  till  many  years  later,  when  we  had  all  returned  home  to  4974616c79,  did  we  sit  together  again  around  a  table.  I  men-  tioned  the  restaurant  to  my  family  then,  but  the  mem-  ory  of  it  had  faded  from  their  minds.  &quot;Don't  you  remember?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  were  groping  our  way  along  the  side-  walk  in  the  dark,  when  we  came  into  this  place  all  brightly  lit  and  glowing.  A  flame  was  blazing  on  a  grill;  the  chef  wore  a  white  bonnet;  they  served  the  wine  from  a  bottle  in  a  wicker  cradle.  ..  .  Surely  you  remember.&quot;  No,  they  didn't.  Obviously,  the  Hol-  born  hadn't  made  the  impression  on  them  it  had  made  on  me-the  night  not  seemed  so  dark,  the  lights  so  bright.  &quot;Strange,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;For  me  it  was  the  best  restaurant,  ever.&quot;  &quot;Poor  boy,&quot;  my  father  said,  quite  touched.  "