 YOUNG  MEN  REMEMBER  The  great  torrent  of  military  and  political  memoirs  and  diaries  of  the  Second  W  orld  W  ar  is  dwindling  toa  trickle  as  the  morelaggard  generals,  min-  iters,  ambassadors,  and  personal  repre-  sentatives  become  too  old  to  hold  a  pen.  Another  era  of  turbulent  memoirs,  about  the  Student  Wars  (1968-  ),  is  at  hand,  be  ginning  with  the  exclusive  publication  of  this  battle  diary.  Apvance  H.Q.,  Tur  CroIsTERS,  Devizes  UnivERstTY,  EncLanp  Tuesday  ELD  a  conference  of  Assault  Section  Leaders  to  discuss  pol-  icy  and  objectives  for  1969.  Bowman  said  that  nothing  short  of  a  total  reorientation  of  society  would  be  acceptable  to  his  Group  (second-year  students  reading  anthropology),  but  Pam  Trotters  thought  our  immediate  demands  should  be  limited  to  all-night  passes  and  representation  on  the  Coun-  cil.  Gutzwell  of  [REDACTED],  who  is  over  on  a  solidarity  exchange,  spoke  next.  He  is  a  commanding  figure,  with  almost  legendary  battle  honours:  has  fought  at  the  Sorbonne  and  Salamanca,  took  part  in  the  Grosvenor  Square  scuf-  fle  on  his  twenty-second  birthday,  twice  mentioned  in  the  newspapers,  and  once  spent  three  days  in  gaol  for  seizing  the  bridle  of  a  police  horse  singlehanded  at  Toulouse.  But  he  has  come  under  the  influence  of  Binholtz,  the  Basic  English  visionary  of  [REDACTED],  and  was  incom-  prehensible.  Decided,  on  a  show  of  hands,  to  base  our  conditions  for  evacuating  the  College  Kitchens  and  Buttery  on:  (1)  Dismissal  of  the  Vice-Chancel-  lor.  (2)  Peace  in  [REDACTED].  (3)  The  abolition  of  capitalism,  bureaucracy,  written  examinations,  and  paternalism.  (4)  Adequate  bicycle  sheds  for  stu-  dents  attending  lectures.  Wednesday  The  plan  for  next  week's  monster  demonstration  is  essentials  agreed  upon.  Hackforth  and  his  mathe-  maticians  will  march  on  the  Post  Of-  fice,  while  diversonary  sitdowns  are  staged  at  traffic  intersections  by  Tram-  pole's  lightly  armed  classics  majors.  Archaeologists  to  form  a  strategic  re-  serve  in  the  Old  Library.  Six  volunteer  divinity  students  will  meanwhile  lie  down  in  the  aisle  at  St.  Mary's  in  pro-  test  against  the  celebration  of  society  weddings  while  Gibraltar  is  still  en-  now  in  slaved.  All  these,  of  course,  are  feints  designed  to  draw  off  the  main  opposi-  tion  forces  and  leave  the  way  clear  for  my  own  seasoned  troops  (the  famous  Unteachables)  to  occupy  the  Cattle  Market  and  bring  all  bidding  for  Here-  fords,  Border  Leicesters,  and  other  capitalist  chattels  to  a  halt.  &quot;Paralyse  agriculture,&quot;  declared  Kit  Svensen  (Uppsala,  1962-64,  summa  cum  laude  in  Anarchic  Studies,  [REDACTED],  1965),  &quot;and  you  send  tyranny  to  the  slaughter-  house.&quot;  There  remain,  however,  vexatious  delays  in  settling  the  precise  date.  Our  American  colleagues  are  demanding  Monday  at  latest,  and  stress  the  urgent  need  to  take  some  of  the  strain  off  [REDACTED],  where  one  hundred  and  fifty  sophomore  Darwinians  are  be-  sieged  in  the  Natural  History  Museum  by  reactionary  Daughters  of  the  so-  called  American  Revolution.  They  seem  incapable  of  understanding  how  severely  our  resources  were  overtaxed  by  the  great  joint  rally  in  Uttoxeter  in  July.  There  is  a  serious  shortage  of  tomatoes.  Many  of  our  universities  have  had  to  make  do  with  eggs,  and  even  these  are  scarce  in  some  areas  or  hope-  lessly  fresh,  owing  to  the  impossibility  oflaying  down  stocks  to  mature.  Trou-  sers  torn  in  fence-climbing  take  time  to  repair,  and  at  the  present  moment  fifty  or  more  of  our  best  barricado  men  have  had  to  be  seconded  to  routine  sit-in  duties,  pending  the  arrival  of  new  pants  from  sympathisers  in  Rotterdam.  Stu-  dent  campaigns  are  not  won  by  serib-  bling  &quot;Action  This  Day!&quot;  on  lavatory  walls  or  tearoom  menus.  Thursday  Further  difficulties  have  arisen  over  the  timing  of  our  big  push.  It  was  fixed  for  Wednesday  week,  on  direct  orders  from  Oxford,  but  it  turns  out  that  Pam  has  a  hairdo  arranged  for  that  day,  and  Guy  Hackforth,  who  is  still  ground  down,  owing  to  the  iniquitous  system  of  inadequate  grants,  under  theheel  of  mam  I  S  8  8s  l  i  A  i  MA,     SEPTEMBER  2  8,  19  G  8  aquarterly  parental  allowance,  is  ex-  pecting  a  visit  from  his  father.  D  Day  has  accordingly  had  to  be  postponed  by  twenty-four  hours,  which  means  that  we  shall  miss  Market  Day  and  must  switch  the  focus  of  our  main  assault  to  asmall  factory  believed  to  be  engaged  in  the  production  of  policemen's  badges.  Flexibility  must  always  be  inherent  in  our  tactics,  however.  Jack  Drew,  something  of  a  hothead  despite  his  sandals,  asked  whether  it  was  true  that  Napoleon  put  of  Marengo  because  Marshal  Ney  had  to  see  his  dentist,  and  was  sharply  rebuked  by  Pollock  (reading  military  history  up  to  1800),  who  said  it  was  outside  his  period.  Discussions  of  this  kind  keep  our  intellectual  interests  normal  lectures,  etc.,  are  in  abeyance.  Good  news  from  Heidelberg,  where  the  Assistant  alive  while  Professor  of  Oriental  Studies  has  been  locked  in  his  coal  cellar  for  spying.  Saturday  Misch,  the  neo-  Trotskyist  from  Bucharest,  arrived  this  a.M.  with  pro-  posals  for  a  worldwide  campaign  to  confuse  the  Faculties  by  sitting  for  the  wrong  examinations.  He  hoped  to  co-  ordinate  with  Dolmetch,  but  we  ex-  plained  that  the  fiery  zoologist  from  Vancouver  had  just  left  in  disguise  to  visit  &quot;No  Syllabus&quot;  Mazetti  in  4974616c79.  Olga  Brick  has  gone  to  Addis  Ababa  to  stir  up  the  biology  students  there,  and  Strickland,  of  whom  much  was  hoped,  has  quite  suddenly  taken  his  de-  gree  at  Edinburghand  gone  over  to  the  enemy.  We  shall  never  bring  education  to  a  complete  halt  until  we  can  get  all  the  leaders  together  for  a  concerted  plan-in.  There  is  an  urgent  need  for  an  agreed  international  code,  if  we  are  to  avoid  repetitions  of  4a6170616e's  stupid  blunder  over  so  simple  a  word  as  &quot;picket.&quot;  Nothing  whatever  is  gained  by  round-the-clock  games  of  piquet.  Trampole  has  sent  me  a  paper  urging  that  we  allow  courses  in  modern  lan-  guages  to  restart,  or  alternatively  that  all  vital  communications  and  orders  be  in  Latin.  Pray  God  it  will  not  come  to  that.  Sunday  Pam  Trotters  has  been  seen  in  a  cinema  with  the  Regius  Professor  of  Astronomy.  All  our  secrets  must  now  be  regarded  as  compromised,  including  the  plan  to  tattoo  the  Minister  of  Edu-  cation  next  Friday.  Morale  is  falling,  and  already  there  are  reports  that  some  of  the  seniors  are  dusting  off  their  note-  books  and  getting  ready  for  a  sellout.  Hackforth  has  shaved,  and  open  frat-  ernisation  is  said  to  be  going  on  in  the  shrubbery  behind  the  Pathology  Lab.  If  " b' the  Vice-Chancellor  sends  in  a  wave  of  hard-core  lecturers  before  we  can  rally,  I  doubt  whether  we  shall  be  able  to  hold  them  off.  Sex  has  always  been  the  weak  link  in  our  armour.  Monday  It  is  finished.  Bowman  and  his  an-  thropologists  are  back  at  work.  Tram-  pole  is  shamelessly  translating  Sopho-  cles.  At  Reading  and  [REDACTED],  men  and  women  who  yesterday  sat  shoulder  to  shoulder  in  defiance  of  an  outworn  social  structure  are  now  standing  like  helots  at  Bunsen  burners  and  retorts,  or  scribbling  down  the  date  of  the  Concordat  of  Worms.  From  abroad  the  news  is  no  better.  The  lamps  of  learning  are  being  relit  all  over  Eu-  rope;  we  shall  not  see  them  doused  again  until  next  term  at  the  earliest.  I  shall  make  my  last  stand  in  the  Buttery,  with  Misch.  We  shall  not  give  in  while  we  have  an  egg  left  that  is  fresh  enough  to  eat.  '