"HOY  TO  EAT  AN  ICE~CREAM  CONE  EFORE  you  even  get  the  cone,  B  you  have  to  do  a  lot  of  planning  about  it,  We'll  assume  that  you  lost  the  argument  in  the  car  and  that  the  family  has  decided  to  break  the  automobile  journey  and  stop  at  an  ice-cream  stand  for  cones.  Get  things  straight  with  them  right  from  the  start.  Tell  them  that  after  they  have  their  cones  there  will  be  an  imaginary  circle  six  feet  away  from  thecar  and  that  no  one-man,  woman,  or  espe-  cially  child-will  be  allowed  to  cross  the  line  and  reenter  the  car  until  his  ice-cream  cone  has  been  entirely  con-  sumed  and  he  has  cleaned  himself  up.  Emphasize:  Automobiles  and  ice-cream  cones  don't  mix.  Explain:  Melted  ice  cream,  children,  is  a  fluid  that  is  eter-  nally  sticky.  One  drop  of  it  on  a  car-  door  handle  spreads  to  the  seat  covers,  to  trousers,  to  hands,  and  thence  to  the  steering  wheel,  the  gearshift,  the  rearview  mirror,  all  the  knobs  of  the  dashboard-spreads  everywhere  and  lasts  forever,  spreads  from  a  niceold  car  like  this,  which  might  have  to  be  abandoned  because  of  stickiness,  right  into  a  nasty  new  car,  in  secret  ways  that  even  scientists  don't  understand.  If  necessary,  even  make  a  joke:  &quot;'The  family  that  eats  ice-cream  cones  to-  gether  sticks  together.&quot;  'Then  let  their  mother  explain  the  joke  and  tell  them  you  don't  mean  half  of  what  you  say,  and  no,  we  won't  be  getting  a  new  car.  Blessed  arethe  chil-  dren  who  always  eat  the  same  flavor  of  ice  cream  or  always  know  beforehand  what  kind  they  will  want.  Such  good  children  should  be  quarantined  from  those  who  want  to  &quot;wait  and  see  what  flavors  there  are.&quot;  It's  a  sad  thing  to  observe  a  beautiful  young  child  who  has  always  been  perfectly  happy  with  a  plain  va-  nilla  ice-cream  cone  being  subverted  by  a  young  schoolmate  who  has  been  invited  along  for  the  weekend-a  pleasant  and  polite  visitor,  perhaps,  but  spoiled  by  permissive  parents  and  scarred  by  an  overactive  imagination.  This  schoolmate  has  a  flair  for  con-  tingency  planning:  &quot;Well,  Pll  have  banana  if  they  have  banana,  but  if  they  don't  have  banana  then  I'll  have  peach,  if  it's  fresh  peach,  and  if  they  don't  have  banana  or  fresh  peach  I'll  see  what  else  they  have  that's  like  that,  like  maybe  fresh  strawberry  or     something,  and  if  they  don't  have  that  or  anything  like  that  that's  good  I'll  just  have  chocolate  marshmallow  chip  or  chocolate  ripple  or  something  like  that.&quot;  Then-turning  to  one's  own  once  simple  and  innocent  child,  now  already  corrupt  and  thinking  fast-the  schoolmate  invites  a  similar  rigmarole.  &quot;What  kind  are  you  going  to  have?&quot;  I'm  a  great  believer  in  contingency  planning,  but  none  of  this  is  realistic.  Few  adults,  and  even  fewer  children,  are  able  to  make  up  their  minds  before-  handwhat  kind  of  ice-cream  cone  they'll  want.  It  would  be  nice  if  they  could  all  be  lined  up  in  front  of  the  man  who  is  making  up  the  cones  and  just  snap  smartly  when  their  turn  came,  &quot;Strawberry,  please,&quot;  &quot;Vanilla,  please,&quot;  &quot;Chocolate,  please.&quot;  But  of  course  it  never  happens  like  that.  There  is  always  a  great  discussion,  agreat  jostling  and  craning  of  necks  and  lean-  ing  over  the  counter  to  see  down  into  the  tubsof  ice  cream,  and  much  inter-  personal  &quot;What  kind  are  you  having?&quot;-back  and  forth,  as  if  that  should  make  any  difference.  Until  finally  the  first  child's  turn  comes  and  he  asks  the  man,  &quot;What  kinds  do  you  have?&quot;  Now,  this  is  the  stupidest  question  in  the  world,  because  there  is  always  a  sign  posted  saying  what  kinds  of  ice  cream  they  have.  As  I  tell  the  chil-  dren,  that's  what  they  for-so  you  won't  have  to  ask  what  kinds  of  ice  cream  they  have.  The  man  gets  sick  of  tell-  ing  everybody  all  the  different  kinds  of  ice  cream  they  have,  so  they  put  a  sign  up  there  that  says.  You're  sup-  posed  to  read  it,  not  ask  the  man.  &quot;All  right,  but  the  sign  doesn't  say  strawberry.&quot;  &quot;Well,  that  means  they  don't  have  };  strawberry.&quot;  &quot;But  there  is  there.&quot;  &quot;''That  must  be  raspberry  or  some-  thing.&quot;  (Look  again  at  the  sign.  Rasp-  berry  isn't  there,  either.)  When  the  child's  turn  actually  comes,  he  says,  &quot;Do  you  have  straw-  berry?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Sure.))  &quot;What  other  kinds  do  you  have?&quot;  The  trouble  is,  of  course,  that  they  put  up  thatsign  saying  what  flavors  " b"  they  have,  with  little  cardboard  inserts  to  put  in  or  take  out  flavors,  way  back  when  they  first  opened  the  store.  But  they  never  change  the  sign-or  not  often  enough.  They  always  have  fla-  vors  that  aren't  on  the  list,  and  often  they  don't  have  flavors  that  are  on  the  list.  Children  know  this-whether  in-  nately  or  from  earliest  experience  it  would  be  hard  to  say.  The  ice-cream  man  knows  it,  too.  Even  grownups  learn  it  eventually.  There  will  always  be  chaos  and  confusion  and  mind-  changing  and  general  uproar  when  ice-  cream  cones  are  being  ordered,  and  there  has  not  been,  is  not,  and  will  never  be  any  way  to  avoid  it.  HUMAN  beings  are  incorrigibly  restless  and  dissatisfied,  always  in  searchof  new  experiences  and  sensa-  tions,  seldom  content  with  the  familiar.  It  is  this,  I  think,  that  accounts  for  people  wanting  to  have  a  taste  of  your  cone,  and  wanting  you  to  have  a  taste  of  theirs.  &quot;Do  have  a  taste  of  this  fresh  |_  peach-it's  delicious,&quot;  my  wife  used  to  say  to  me,  very  much  (I  suppose)  the  way  Eve  wanted  Adam  to  taste  her  delicious  apple.  An  insinuating  look  of  calculating  curiosity  would  film  wife's  eyes-the  same  look  those  beau-  tiful,  scary  women  in  those  depraved  |/  Italian  films  give  a  man  they're  inter-  ested  in.  &quot;How's  yours?&quot;  she  would  say.  For  this  reason,  I  always  order  chocolate  chip  now.  Down  through  the  years,  all  those  close  enough  to  me  to  feel  entitled  to  ask  for  a  taste  of  my  cone-namely,  my  wife  and  chil-  dren-have  learned  what  chocolate  chip  tastes  like,  so  they  have  no  legiti-  mate  reason  to  ask  me  for  a  taste.  As  for  tasting  other  people's  cones,  never  do  it.  The  reasoning  here  is  that  ifit  tastes  good,  you'll  wish  you'd  had  it;  ifit  tastes  bad,  you'll  have  had  a  taste  of  something  that  tastes  bad;  if  it  doesn't  taste  either  good  or  bad,  then  you  won't  have  missed  anything.  Of  course  no  person  in  his  right  mind  ever  would  want  to  taste  anyone  else's  cone,  but  it  is  useful  to  have  good,  logical  a  reasons  for  hating  the  thought  of  it.  Another  important  thing.  Never  let  &amp;  the  man  hand  you  the  ice-cream  cones  for  the  whole  group.  There  is  no  sight  more  pathetic  than  some  bumbling  dis-  organized  papa  holding  four  ice-cream  cones  in  two  hands,  with  his  money  still  in  his  pocket,  when  the  man  says,  &quot;Eighty  cents.&quot;  What  does  he  do  then?  He  can't  hand  the  cones  back  to  the  man  to  hold  while  he  fishes  in  his  pocket  for  the  money,  for  the  man  has  just  given  them  to  him.  He  can  start  passing  them  out  to  the  kids,  but  at  " b"least  one  of  them  will  have  gone  back  to  the  car  to  see  how  the  dog  is  doing,  or  have  been  sent  round  in  back  by  his  mother  to  wash  his  hands  or  something.  And  even  if  papa  does  get  them  dis-  tributed,  he's  still  going  to  be  left  with  his  own  cone  in  one  hand  while  he  tries  to  get  his  money  with  the  other.  Meanwhile,  of  course,  the  man  is  very  impatient,  and  the  next  group  is  ask-  ing  him,  &quot;What  flavors  do  you  have?&quot;  No,  never  let  the  man  hand  you  the  cones  of  others.  Make  him  hand  them  out  to  each  kid  in  turn.  That  way,  too,  you  won't  get  those  disgusting  blobs  of  butter  pecan  and  black  raspberry  on  your  own  chocolate  chip.  And  insist  that  he  tell  you  how  much  it  all  costs  and  settle  with  him  before  he  hands  you  your  own  cone.  Make  sure  every-  one  has  got  paper  napkins  and  every-  thing  before  he  hands  you  your  own  cone.  Get  everything  straight  before  he  hands  you  your  own  cone.  Then,  as  he  hands  you  your  own  cone,  reach  out  and  take  it  from  him.  Strange,  magical,  dangerous  moment!  It  shares  something  of  the  mysterious,  sick  thrill  that  soldiers  are  said  to  feel  on  the  eve  of  a  great  battle.  Now,  consider  for  a  moment  just  exactly  what  itis  that  you  are  about  to  be  handed.  It  is  a  huge,  irregular  mass  of  ice  cream,  faintly  domed  at  the  top  from  the  metal  scoop,  which  has  first  produced  it  and  then  insecurely  balanced  it  on  the  uneven  top  edge  of  a  hollow  inverted  cone  made  out  of  the  most  brittle  and  fragile  of  materials.  Clumps  of  ice  cream  hang  over  the  side,  very  loosely  attached  to  the  main  body.  There  is  always  much  more  ice  cream  than  the  cone  could  hold,  even  if  the  ice  cream  were  tamped  down  into  the  cone,  which  of  course  it  isn't.  And  the  essence  of  ice  cream  is  that  it  melts.  It  doesn't  just  stay  there  teetering  in  this  irregular,  top-heavy  mass;  it  also  melts  And  it  melts  " b" fast.  And  it  doesn't  just  melt-it  melts  into  a  sticky  fluid  that  camnmot  be  wiped  off.  The  only  thing  one  person  could  hand  to  another  that  might  possibly  be  more  dangerous  is  a  live  hand  grenade  from  which  the  pin  had  been  pulled  five  seconds  earlier.  And  of  course  if  anybody  offered  you  that,  you  could  say,  &quot;Oh.  Uh,  well-no,  thanks.&quot;  Ice-cream  men  handle  cones  rou-  tinely,  and  are  inured.  They  are  like  professionals  who  are  used  to  handling  sticks  of  TNT;  their  movements  are  quick  and  skillful.  An  ice-cream  man  will  pass  a  cone  to  you  casually,  almost  carelessly.  Never  accept  a  cone  on  this  basis!  Too  many  brittle  sugar  cones  (the  only  good  kind)  are  crushed  or  chipped,  or  their  ice-cream  tops  knocked  askew,  by  this  casual  sort  of  transfer  from  hand  to  hand.  If  the  ice-  cream  man  is  attempting  this  kind  of  brusque  transfer,  keep  your  hands  at  your  side,  no  matter  what  effort  it  may  cost  you  to  overcome  the  instinct  by  which  everyone's  hand  goes  out,  almost  automatically,  whenever  he  is  proffered  something  delicious  and  expected.  Keep  your  hands  at  your  side,  and  the  ice-  cream  man  will  look  up  at  you,  star-  tled,  questioning.  Lock  his  eyes  with  your  own,  and  ther,  slowly,  calmly,  and  above  all  deliberately,  take  the  cone  from  him.  Grasp  the  cone  with  the  right  hand  firmly  butgently  between  thumb  and  at  least  one  but  not  more  than  three  fingers,  two-thirds  of  the  way  up  the  cone.  Then  dart  swiftly  away  to  an  open  area,  away  from  the  jostling  crowd  at  the  stand.  Now  take  up  the  classic  ice-cream-cone-eating  stance:  feet  from  one  to  two  feet  apart,  body  bent  forward  from  the  waist  at  a  twenty-five-degree  angle,  right  elbow  well  up,  right  forearm  horizontal,  at  a  level  with  your  collarbone  and  about  twelve  inches  from  it.  But  don't  start  eating  yet!  Check  first  to  see  what  emergency  repairs  may  be  necessary.  Sometimes  a  sugar  cone  will  be  so  crushed  or  broken  or  cracked  that  all  one  can  do  is  gulp  at  the  thing  like  a  savage,  getting  what  he  can  of  it  and  letting  the  rest  drop  to  the  ground,  and  then  evacu-  ating  the  area  of  catastrophe  as  quickly  as  possible.  Checking  the  cone  for  pos-  sible  trouble  can  be  done  in  a  second  or  two,  if  one  knows  where  to  look  and  does  it  systematically.  A  trouble  spot  some  people  overlook  is  the  bottom  tip  of  the  cone.  This  may  have  been  bro-  ken  off.  Or  the  flap  of  the  cone  ma-  terial  at  the  bottom,  usually  wrapped  over  itself  in  that  funny  spiral  con-  struction,  may  be  folded  in  a  way  that  is  imperfect  and  leaves  an  opening.  No " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  need  to  say  that  through  this  open-  ing-in  a  matter  of  perhaps  thirty  or,  at  most,  ninety  seconds-will  begin  to  pour  hundreds  of  thousands  of  sticky  molecules  of  melted  ice  cream.  You  know  in  this  casethat  you  must  instantly  get  the  paper  napkin  in  your  left  hand  under  and  around  the  bot-  tom  of  the  cone  to  stem  the  forth-  coming  flow,  or  else  be  doomed  to  eat  the  cone  far  too  rapidly.  It  is  a  grim  moment.  No  one  wants  to  eat  a  cone  under  that  kind  of  pressure,  but  neither  does  anyone  want  to  end  up  with  the  bottom  of  the  cone  stuck  to  a  messy  napkin.  There's  one  other  al-  ternative-one  that  takes  both  skill  and  courage:  Forgoing  any  cradling  action,  grasp  the  cone  more  firmly  between  thumb  and  forefinger  and  extend  the  other  fingers  so  that  they  are  out  of  the  way  of  the  dripping  from  the  bottom,  then  increase  the  waist-bend  angle  from  twenty-five  degrees  to  thirty-five  degrees,  and  then  eat  the  cone,  allow-  ing  it  to  drip  out  of  the  bottom  onto  the  ground  in  front  of  you!  Experi-  enced  and  thoughtful  cone-eaters  en-  joy  facing  up  to  this  kind  of  sudden  challenge.  O  far,  we  have  been  concentrating  on  cone  problems,  but  of  course  there  is  the  ice  cream  to  worry  about,  too.  In  this  area,  immediate  action  is  sometimes  needed  on  three  fronts  at  once.  Frequently  the  ice  cream  will  be  mounted  on  the  cone  in  a  way  that  is  perilously  lopsided.  'This  requires  im-  mediate  corrective  action  to  move  it  back  into  balance-a  slight  pressure  downward  with  the  teeth  and  lips  to  seat  the  ice  cream  more  firmly  in  and  on  the  cone,  but  not  so  hard,  of  course,  as  to  break  the  cone.  On  otherocca-  sions,  gobs  of  ice  cream  will  be  hanging  loosely  from  the  main  body,  about  to  fall  to  the  ground  (bad)  or  onto  one's  hand  (far,  far  worse).  This  requires  instant  action,  too;  one  must  snap  at  the  gobs  like  a  frog  in  a  swarm  of  flies.  Sometimes,  trickles  of  ice  cream  will  already  (already!)  be  running  down  the  cone  toward  one's  fingers,  and  one  must  quickly  raise  the  cone,  tilting  one's  face  skyward,  and  lick  with  an  upward  motion  that  pushes  the  trickles  away  from  the  fingers  and  (as  much  as  pos-  sible)  into  one's  mouth.  Every  ice-  cream  cone  is  like  every  other  ice-  cream  cone  in  that  it  potentially  can  present  all  of  these  problems,  but  each  ice-cream  cone  is  paradoxically  unique  in  that  it  will  present  the  problems  in  a  different  order  of  emergency  and  de-  gree  of  severity.  It  is,  thank  God,  a  rare  ice-cream  cone  that  will  present  all " b"    three  kinds  of  problems  in  exactly  the  same  degree  of  emergency.  With  each  cone,  itis  necessary  to  make  an  in-  stantaneous  judgment  as  to  where  the  greatest  danger  is,  and  to  ect!  A  moment's  delay,  and  the  whole  thing  will  be  a  mess  before  you've  even  tasted  it  (Fig.1).  If  it  isn't  possibleto  decide  be-  tween  any  two  of  the  three  basic  emergency  problems  (i.e.,  lopsided  mount,  dan-  gling  gobs,  running  trickles),  allow  yourself  to  make  an  arbitrary  adjudi-  cation;  assign  a  &quot;heads&quot;  value  to  one  and  a  &quot;tails&quot;  value  to  the  other,  then  flip  a  coin  to  decide  which  is  to  be  tend-  ed  to  first.  Don't,  for  heaven's  sake,  actually  flip  a  coin-you'd  have  to  dig  in  your  pockets  for  it,  or  else  have  it  ready  in  your  hand  before  youwere  handed  the  cone.  There  isn't  remotely  enough  time  for  anything  like  that.  Just  decide  in  your  mind  which  came  up,  heads  or  tails,  and  then  try  tore-  member  as  fast  as  you  can  which  of  the  problems  you  had  assigned  to  the  winning  side  of  the  coin.  Probably,  though,  there  isn't  time  for  any  of  this.  Just  do  something,  however  arbi-  trary.  Act!  Eat!  In  trying  to  make  wise  and  correct  decisions  about  the  ice-cream  cone  in  your  hand,  you  should  always  keep  the  objectives  in  mind.  'The  main  objective,  of  course,  is  to  get  the  cone  under  con-  trol.  Secondarily,  one  will  want  to  eat  the  cone  calmly  and  with  pleasure.  Real  pleasure  lies  not  simply  in  eating  the  cone  but  in  eating  it  right.  Let  us  assume  that  you  have  darted  to  your  open  space  and  made  your  necessary  emergency  repairs.  'The  cone  is  still  dangerous-still,  so  to  speak,  &quot;live.&quot;  But  you  can  now  proceed  with  it  in  an  orderly  fashion.  First,  revolve  the  cone  through  the  full  three  hundred  and  sixty  degrees,  snapping  at  the  loose  gobs  of  ice  cream;  turn  the  cone  by  moving  the  thumb  away  from  youand  the  fore-  finger  toward  you,  so  the  cone  moves  counterclockwise.  Then,  with  the  cone  still  &quot;wound,&quot;  which  will  require  the  wrist  to  be  bent  at  the  full  right  angle  toward  you,  apply  pressure  with  the  mouth  and  tongue  to  accomplish  over-  all  realignment,  straightening  and  set-  tling  the  whole  mess.  Then,  unwinding  the  cone  back  through  the  full  three  hundred  and  sixty  degrees,  remove  any  trickles  of  ice  cream.  From  here  on,  some  supplementary  repairs  may  be  necessary,  but  the  cone  is  now  defused.  At  this  point,  you  can  risk  a  glance  around  you.  How  badly  the  others  are  doing  with  their  cones!  Now  you  can     settle  down  to  eating  yours.  This  is  done  by  eating  the  ice  cream  off  the  top.  At  each  bite,  you  must  press  down  cau-  tiously,  so  that  the  ice  cream  settles  farther  and  farther  intothe  cone.  Be  very  careful  not  to  break  the  cone.  Of  course,  you  never  take  so  much  ice  cream  into  your  mouth  at  once  that  it  hurts  your  teeth;  forthe  same  reason,  you  never  let  unmelted  ice  cream  into  the  back  of  your  mouth.  If  all  these  procedures  are  followed  correctly,  you  should  shortly  arrive  at  the  ideal-the  way  an  ice-cream  cone  is  always  pic-  tured  but  never  actually  is  when  it  is  handed  to  you  (Fig.  2).  The  ice  cream  should  now  form  a  small  dome  whose  circumference  exactly  coincides  with  the  large  cir-  cumference  of  the  cone  it-  self-a  small  skullcap  that  fits  exactly  on  top  of  a  larg-  er,  inverted  dunce  cap.  You  have  made  order  out  of  chaos;  you  are  an  artist.  You  have  taken  an  unnatural,  abhor-  rent,  irregular,  chaotic  form,  and  from  it  you  have  sculpted  an  ordered,  ideal  shape  that  might  be  envied  by  Praxit-  eles  or  even  Euclid.  Now  at  last  you  can  begin  to  take  little  nibbles  of  the  cone  itself,  being  very  careful  not  to  crack  it.  Revolve  the  cone  so  that  its  rim  remains  smooth  and  level  as  you  eat  both  ice  cream  and  cone  in  the  same  ratio.  Because  of  the  geometrical  nature  of  things,  a  con-  stantly  reduced  inverted  cone  still  re-  mains  a  perfect  inverted  cone  no  matter  how  small  it  grows,  just  as  a  constantly  reduced  dome  heldwithin  a  cone  re-  tains  its  shape.  Because  you  are  con-  stantly  reshaping  the  dome  of  ice  cream  with  your  tongue  and  nibbling  at  the  cone,  it  follows  in  logic-and  in  actual  practice,  if  you  are  skillful  and  care-  ful-that  the  cone  will  continue  to  look  exactly  the  same,  except  for  its  size,  as  you  eat  it  down,  so  that  at  the  very  end  you  will  hold  between  your  thumb  and  forefinger  a  tiny,  idealized  replica  of  an  ice-cream  cone,  a  thing  perhaps  one  inch  high.  Then,  while  theothers  are  licking  their  sticky  fingers,  prepar-  atory  to  wiping  them  on  their  clothes,  or  going  back  to  the  ice-cream  stand  for  more  paper  napkins  to  try  to  clean  themselves  up-them  you  can  hold  the  miniature  cone  up  for  everyone  to  see,  and  pop  it  gently  into  your  mouth. "