 SEVENTH  HOUSE  RISHNA  ran  his  finger  over  the  K  block  of  ice  in  order  to  wipe  away  the  layer  of  sawdust,  chis-  elled  off  a  piece,  crushed  it,  and  filled  the  rubber  ice  bag.  This  activity  in  the  shaded  corner  of  the  back  veranda  gave  him  an  excuse  to  get  awayfrom  the  sickroom,  but  he  could  not  dawdle  over  it,  for  he  had  to  keep  the  icecap  on  his  wife's  brow  continuously,  according  to  the  doctor's  command.  In  that  battle  between  ice  and  mercury  column,  it  was  ice  that  lost  its  iciness,  while  the  mercury  column  held  its  ground  at  a  hundred  and  three  degrees  Fahrenheit.  The  doctor  had  looked  triumphant  on  the  day  hediagnosed  the  illness  as  ty-  phoid,  and  announced  with  glee,  &quot;We  now  know  what  stick  to  employ  for  beating  it;  they  call  it  Chloromycetin.  Don't  you  worry  anymore.&quot;  He  was  a  good  doctor  but  given  to  lugubrious  humor  and  monologuing.  The  Chloromycetin  pills  were  giv-  en  to  the  patient  as  directed,  and  at  the  doctor's  next  visit  Krishna  waited  for  him  to  pause  for  breath  and  then  cut  in  with  &quot;The  fever  hasnot  gone  down,&quot;  holding  up  the  temperature  chart.  The  doctor  threw  a  brief,  detached  look  at  the  sheet  and  continued,  &quot;The  municipality  served  me  a  notice  to  put  a  slab  over  the  storm  drain  at  my  gate,  but  my  lawyer  said-&quot;  &quot;Last  night  she  refused  food,&quot;  Krishna  said.  &quot;Good  for  the  country,  with  its  food  shortage.  Do  you  know  what  the  fat  grain  merchant  in  the  market  did?  When  he  came  to  show  me  his  throat,  he  asked  if  I  was  an  M.D.!  I  don't  know  where  he  learned  about  M.D  .s.&quot;  &quot;She  was  restless  and  tugged  at  her  bedclothes,&quot;  Krishna  said,  lowering  his  voice  as  he  noticed  his  wife  open  her  cyes.  The  doctor  touched  her  pulse  with  the  tip  of  his  finger  and  said  breezily,  &quot;Perhaps  she  wants  a  different-colored  sheet,  and  why  not?&quot;  &quot;Ihave  read  somewhere  the  tug-  ging  of  bedclothes  is  a  bad  sign.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  and  your  reading!&quot;  The  patient  moved  her  lips.  Krishna  bent  close  toher,  and  straightened  him-  self  to  explain,  &quot;She  is  asking  when  you  will  let  her  get  up.&quot;  The  doctor  said,  &quot;In  time  for  the  Olympics  ..  .&quot;  and  laughed  at  his  own  joke.  &quot;I'd  love  to  be  off  for  the  Olym-  pics  myself.&quot;  Krishna  said,  &quot;The  temperature  was  a  hundred  and  three  at  1  a.m....&quot;  &quot;Didn't  you  keep  the  ice  going?&quot;  &quot;Till  my  fingers  were  numb.&quot;  &quot;We  will  treat  you  for  cramps  by  and  by,  but  first  let  us  see  the  lady  of  the  house  back  in  the  kitchen.&quot;  So  Krishna  found,  after  all,  a  point  of  agreement  with  the  doctor.  He  wanted  his  wife  back  in  the  kitchen  very  badly,  He  miscooked  the  rice  in  a  different  way  cach  day,  and  swallowed  it  with  buttermilk  at  mealtime  and  ran  back  to  his  wife's  bedside.  The  servant  maid  came  in  the  after-  noon  totidy  up  thepatient  and  the  bed,  and  relieved  Krishna  for  almost  an  hour,  which  he  spent  in  watch-  ing  the  street  from  the  doorway:  a  cyclist  passing,  schoolchildren  running  home,  crows  perching  in  a  row  on  the  opposite  roof,  a  street  hawker  crying  his  wares-anything  seemed  interest-  ing  enough  to  take  his  mind  off  the  fever.  Another  week  passed.  Sitting  there  beside  her  bed,  holding  the  ice  bag  in  position,  he  brooded  over  his  married  life  from  its  beginning.  When  he  was  studying  at  Albert  Mission  he  used  to  see  a  great  deal  of  her;  they  cut  their  classes,  sat  on  the  river's  edge,  discussed  earnestly  their  present  and  future,  and  finally  decided  to  marry.  The  parents  on  both  sides  felt  that  here  was  an  instance  of  the  evils  of  modern  education:  young  peo-  ple  would  not  wait  for  their  elders  to  arrange  their  marriage  but  settled  things  for  themselves,  aping  Western  manners  and  cinema  stories.  Except  for  the  lack  of  propriety,  in  all  other  re-  spects  the  proposal  should  have  proved  acceptable;  financial  background  of  the  families,  the  caste  and  group  require-  ments,  age,  and  everything  else  was  correct.  The  elders  relented  eventual-  Iv,  and  on  a  fine  day  the  horoscopes  of  the  boy  and  girl  were  exchanged  and  found  not  suited  to  each  other.  The  boy's  horoscope  indicated  [REDACTED]  in  the  Seventh  House,  which  spelled  disaster  for  his  bride.  The  girl's  father  refused  to  consider  the  proposal  further.  The  boy's  parents  were  outraged  at  the  attitude  ofthe  bride's  party-a  bride's  father  was  a  seeker  and  the  bride-  groom's  the  giver,  and  how  dare  they  be  finicky?  &quot;Our  son  will  get  a  bride  a  hundred  times  superior  to  this  girl.  After  all,  what  has  she  to  commend  her?  All  college  girls  make  themselves  up  to  look  pretty,  but  that  is  notevery-  thing.&quot;  The  young  couple  felt  and  looked  miserable,  which  induced  the  parents  to  reopen  negotiations.  A  wise  man  suggested  that,  if  other  things  were  all  right,  they  could  ask  for  a  sign  and  go  ahead.  The  parties  agreed  toa  flower  test.  On  an  auspicious  day  they  assembled  in  the  temple.  The  wick  lamp  in  the  inner  sanctum  threw  a  soft  illumination  around.  The  priest  lit  a  piece  of  camphor  and  circled  it  in  front  ofthe  image  in  the  sanctum.  Both  sets  of  parents  and  their  supporters,  standing  respectfully  in  the  pillared  hall,  watched  the  image  and  prayed  for  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  guidance.  The  priest  beck-  oned  to  a  boy  of  four  who  was  with  another  group  of  worshippers.  When  he  hesi-  tated,  the  priest  dangled  a  piece  of  coconut.  The  child  approached  the  threshold  of  the  sanctum  greedily.  The  priest  picked  off  a  red  and  a  white  flower  from  the  garland  on  the  image,  placed  them  on  a  tray,  and  told  the  boy  to  choose  one.  &quot;Why?&quot;  asked  the  boy,  uneasy  at  being  watched  by  so  many  people.  If  the  red  flower  was  chosen,  it  would  indicate  God's  approval.  The  little  boy  accepted  the  piece  of  coconut  and  tried  to  escape,  but  the  priest  held  him  by  the  shoulder  and  commanded,  &quot;Take  a  flow-  er!,&quot;  at  which  the  child  burst  into  tears  and  wailed  for  his  mother.  The  adults  despaired.  The  crying  of  the  child  at  this  point  was  inauspicious;  -there  should  have  been  laughter  and  the  red  flower.  The  priest  said,  &quot;No  need  to  wait  for  any  other  sign.  The  child  has  shown  usthe  way,&quot;  and  they  all  dispersed  silently.  Despite  the  astrologers,  Krishna  married  the  girl,  and  [REDACTED]  in  the  Seventh  House  was,  eventually,  for-  gotten.  HE  patient  seemed  to  be  asleep.  Krishna  tiptoed  out  of  the  room,  and  told  the  servant  maid  waiting  in  the  veranda,  &quot;I  have  to  go  out  and  buy  medicines.  Give  her  orange  juice  at  six,  and  look  after  her  until  I  re-  turn.&quot;  He  stepped  out  of  his  house,  feeling  like  a  released  prisoner.  He  walked  along,  enjoying  the  crowd  and  bustle  of  the  Market  Road  until  the  thought  of  his  wife's  fever  came  back  to  his  mind.  He  desperately  needed  someone  who  could  tell  him  the  un-  varnished  truth  about  his  wife's  condi-  tion.  The  doctor  touched  upon  all  sub-  jects  except  that.  When  Chloromycetin  failed  to  bring  down  the  fever,  he  said  cheerfully,  &quot;It  only  shows  that  itis  not  typhoid  but  something  else.  We  will  do  other  tests  tomorrow.&quot;  And  that  morning,  before  leaving:  &quot;Why  don't  you  pray,  instead  of  all  this  cross-ex-  amination  of  me?&quot;  &quot;What  sort  of  prayer?&quot;  Krishna  had  asked  naively.  &quot;Well,  you  may  say,  'Oh  God,  if  You  are  there,  save  me  if  You  can!&quot;&quot;  the  doctor  replied,  and  guffawed  loud-  ly  at  his  own  joke.  The  doctor's  humor  was  most  trying.  Krishna  realizedthat  the  doctor  might  sooner  or  later  arrive  at  the  cor-  rect  diagnosis,  but  would  it  be  within  the  patient's  lifetime?  He  was  appalled  at  the  prospect  of  bereavement;  his  heart  pounded  wildly  at  the  dreadful  thought.  [REDACTED],  having  lain  dormant,  was  astir  now.  [REDACTED]  and  an  unidenti-  fied  microbe  had  combined  forces.  The  microbe  was  the  doctor's  business,  how-  ever  confusedhe  might  look.  But  the  investigation  of  [REDACTED]  was  not.  Krishna  hired  a  bicycle  from  a  shop  and  pedalled  off  in  the  direction  of  the  coconut  grove  where  the  old  astrologer  lived  who  had  cast  the  horoscopes.  He  found  theold  man  sitting  in  the  hall,  placidly  watching  a  pack  of  children  climb  over  walls,  windows,  furniture,  and  rice  bags  stacked  in  a  corner  and  creating  enough  din  to  drown  all  con-  versation.  He  unrolled  a  mat  for  Krish-  na  to  sit  on,  and  shouted  over  the  noise  of  the  children,  &quot;I  told  you  at  the  start  itself  how  it  was  going  to  turn  out,  but  you  people  would  not  listen  to  my  words.  Yes,  [REDACTED]  has  begun  to  exer-  cise  his  most  malignant  aspect  now.     31  Under  the  circumstances,  survival  of  the  person  con-  cerned  is  doubtful.&quot;  Krish-  na  groaned.  The  children  in  a  body  had  turned  their  attention  to  Krishna's  bicy-  cle,  and  were  ringing  the  bell  and  feverishly  attempt-  ing  to  push  the  machine  off  its  stand.  Nothing  seemed  to  matter  now.  For  a  man  about  to  lose  his  wife,  the  loss  of  a  cycle  taken  on  hire  should  not  matter.  Let  children  demolish  all  the  bicycles  in  the  town  and  Krishna  would  not  care.  Everything  could  be  re-  placed  except  a  human  life.  &quot;What  shall  I  do?&quot;  he  asked,  picturing  his  wife  in  her  bed  asleep  and  never  waking.  He  clung  to  this  old  man  desperately,  for  he  felt,  inhis  fevered  state  of  mind,  that  the  astrologer  could  intercede  with,  influ-  ence,  or  even  apologize  on  his  behalf  to,  a  planet  in  the  highheavens.  He  remem-  bered  the  reddish  [REDACTED]  he  used  to  be  shown  in  the  sky  when  he  was  a  Boy  Scout-  reddish  on  account  of  the  malignity  erupting  like  lava  from  its  bosom.  &quot;What  would  you  advise  me  to  do?  Please  help  me!&quot;  The  old  man  looked  over  the  rim  of  his  spectacles  at  Krishna  menacingly.  His  eyes  were  also  red.  Everything  is  red,  reflected  Krishna.  He  partakes  of  the  tint  of  [REDACTED].  I  don't  know  whether  this  man  is  my  friend  or  foe.  My  doctor  also  has  red  eyes.  So  has  the  maid  servant.  ...  Red  everywhere.  Krishna  said,  &quot;I  know  that  the  rul-  ing  god  in  [REDACTED]  is  benign.  I  wish  I  knew  how  to  propitiate  him  and  gain  his  compassion.&quot;  The  old  man  said,  &quot;Wait.&quot;  He  stood  before  a  cupboard,  took  out  a  stack  of  palm-leaf  strips  with  verses  etched  on  them,  four  lines  to  a  leaf.  &quot;This  is  one  of  the  four  originals  of  the  Brihad-  Jataka,  from  which  the  whole  science  of  astrology  is  derived.  This  is  what  has  given  me  my  living;  when  I  speak,  I  speak  with  the  authority  of  this  leaf.&quot;  The  old  man  held  the  palm  leaf  to  the  light  at  the  doorway  and  read  out  a  Sanskrit  aphorism:  &quot;  'There  can  be  no  such  thing  as  evading  fate,  but  you  can  insulate  yourself  to  some  extent  from  its  rigors.&quot;  Then  he  added,  &quot;Listen  to  this:  'Where  Angaraka  is  malevo-  lent,  appease  him  with  the  following  " b"32  prayer  ...  and  accompany  it  with  the  gift  of  rice  and  gram  and  a  piece  of  red  silk.  Pour  the  oblation  of  pure  but-  ter  into  a  fire  raised  with  sandal  sticks,  for  four  days  continuously,  and  feed  four  Brahmins&quot;.  ..  Can  you  do  it?!&quot;  Krishna  was  panic-stricken.  How  could  he  organize  all  this  elaborate  rit-  ual  (which  was  going  to  cost  a  great  deal)  when  every  moment  and  every  rupee  counted?  Who  would  nurse  his  wife  in  his  absence?  Who  would  cook  the  ritual  feast  for  the  Brahmins?  He  simply  would  not  be  able  to  manage  it  unless  his  wife  helped  him.  He  laughed  at  the  irony  of  it,  and  the  astrologer  said,  &quot;Why  do  you  laugh  at  these  things?  You  think  you  are  completely  modern?&quot;  Krishna  apologized  for  his  laugh  and  explained  his  helpless  state.  The  old  man  shut  the  manuscript  indignantly,  wrapped  it  in  its  cover,  and  put  it  away,  muttering,  &quot;These  simple  steps  you  can't  take  to  achieve  a  profound  re-  sult.  Go,  go.  ...  I  can  be  of  no  use  to  you.&quot;  Krishna  hesitated,  took  two  rupees  from  his  purse,  and  held  them  out  to  the  old  man,  who  waved  the  money  away.  &quot;Let  your  wife  get  well  first.  Then  give  me  the  fee.  Not  now.&quot;  And  as  Krishna  turned  to  go:  &quot;The  trouble  is,  your  love  is  killing  your  wife.  If  you  were  an  indifferent  husband,  she  could  survive.  The  malignity  of  [REDACTED]  might  make  her  suffer  now  and  then,  men-  tally  more  than  physically,  but  would  not  kill  her.  I  have  seen  horoscopes  that  were  the  exact  replica  of  yours  and  the  wife  lived  to  a  ripe  age.  You  know  why?  The  husband  was  disloyal  or  cruel,  and  that  in  some  way  neutralized  the  rigor  of  the  planet  in  the  Seventh  House.  I  see  your  wife's  time  is  getting  to  be  really  bad.  Before  anythinghap-  pens,  save  her.  If  you  can  bring  your-  self  to  be  unfaithful  to  her,  try  that.  Every  man  with  a  concubine  has  a  wife  who  lives  long.  .  ..&quot;  A  strange  philosophy,  but  it  sounded  feasible.  KRISHNA  was  ignorant  of  the  tech-  nique  of  infidelity,  and  wished  he  had  the  slickness  of  his  oldfriend  Ramu,  who,  in  their  younger  days,  used  to  brag  of  his  sexual  exploits.  It  would  be  impossible  to  seek  Ramu's  guidance  now,  although  he  lived  close  by;  he  had  become  a  senior  govern-  ment  officer  and  a  man  of  family,  and  might  not  care  to  lend  himself  to  reminiscences  of  this  kind.  Krishna  looked  for  a  pimp  repre-  senting  the  prostitutes  in  Golden  Street  and  could  not  spot  one,  although  the    market  gate  was  reputed  to  be  swarm-  ing  with  them.  He  glanced  at  his  watch.  Six  o'clock.  [REDACTED]  would  have  to  be  appeased  before  midnight.  Somehow  his  mind  fixed  the  line  at  midnight.  He  turned  home-  ward,  leaned  his  bicycle  on  the  lamp-  post,  and  ran  up  the  steps  of  his  house.  At  the  sight  of  him  the  servant  maid  prepared  to  leave,  but  he  begged  her  to  stay  on.  Then  he  peeped  into  the  sickroom,  saw  that  his  wife  was  asleep,  and  addressed  her  mentally,  &quot;You  are  going  to  get  better  soon.  But  it  will  cost  something.  Doesn't  matter.  Any-  thing  to  save  your  life.&quot;  He  washed  hurriedly  and  put  on  a  nylon  shirt,  a  lace-edged  dhoti,  and  a  silk  upper  cloth;  lightly  applied  some  talcum  and  a  strange  perfume  he  dis-  covered  in  his  wife's  cupboard.  He  was  ready  for  the  evening.  He  had  fifty  rupees  in  his  purse,  and  that  should  be  adequate  for  the  wildest  evening  one  could  want.  For  a  moment,  as  he  paused  to  take  a  final  look  at  himself  in  the  mirror,  he  was  seized  with  an  im-  mense  vision  of  passion  and  seduction.  He  returned  the  hired  cycle  to  the  shop,  and  at  seven  was  walking  up  Golden  Street.  In  his  imagination  he  had  expected  glittering  females  to  beck-  on  him  from  their  balconies.  The  old  houses  had  pyols,  pillars,  and  railings,  andwere  painted  in  garish  colors,  as  the  houses  of  prostitutes  were  reputed  to  be  in  former  times,  but  the  sign-  boards  on  the  houses  indicated  that  the  occupants  were  lawyers,  tradesmen,  and  teachers.  The  only  relic  of  the  old  days  was  a  little  shop  in  an  obscure  cor-  ner  that  sold  perfumes  in  colored  bot-  tles  and  strings  of  jasmine  flowers  and  roses.  Krishna  passed  up  and  down  the  street,  staring  hard  at  a  few  women  here  and  there,  but  they  were  probably  ordinary,  indifferent  housewives,  No  one  returned  his  stare,  No  one  seemed  " b" to  notice  his  silk  upper  cloth  and  lace  dhoti.  He  paused  to  consider  whether  he  could  rush  into  ahouse,  seize  some-  one,  perform  the  necessary  act,  shed  his  fifty  rupees,  and  rush  out.  Perhaps  he  might  get  beaten  in  the  process.  How  on  earth  was  one  tofind  out  which  woman,  among  all  those  he  had  noticed  on  the  terraces  and  verandas  of  the  houses,  would  respond  to  his  ap-  peal?  After  walking  up  and  down  for  two  hours,  he  realizedthat  the  thing  was  impossible.  He  sighed  for  the  freedom  between  the  sexes  he  read  about,  in  the  European  countries,  where  you  had  only  to  look  about  and  announce  your  intentions  and  you  could  get  enough  women  to  confound  the  most  malignant  planet  in  the  universe.  He  suddenly  remembered  that  the  temple  dancer  lived  somewhere  here.  He  knew  a  lot  of  stories  about  Rangi  of  the  temple,  who  danced  before  the  God's  image  during  the  day  and  took  lovers  at  night.  He  stopped  for  a  banana  and  a  fruit  drink  at  a  shop,  and  asked  the  little  boy  serving  him,  &quot;Which  is  the  house  of  the  temple  dancer  Rangi?&quot;  The  boy  was  too  small  to  understand  the  purport  of  his  in-  quiry,  and  merely  replied,  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  Krishna  felt  abashed  and  left.  Under  a  street  lamp  stood  a  jutka,  the  horse  idly  swishing  its  tail,  and  the  old  driver  waiting  for  a  fare.  Krishna  asked,  &quot;Are  you  free?&quot;  The  driver  sprang  to  attention.  &quot;Where  doyou  wish  to  be  taken,  sir?&quot;  Krishna  said  timidly,  &quot;I  wonder  if  you  know  where  the  temple  dancer  Rangi  lives?&quot;  &quot;Why  do  you  want  her?&quot;  the  driver  asked,  looking  him  up  and  down.  Krishna  mumbled  some  reply  about  his  wanting  tosee  her  dance.  &quot;At  this  hour!&quot;  the  driver  exclaimed.  &quot;With  so  much  silk  and  so  much  perfume  on!  Don't  try  to  deceive  me.  When  you  come  out  of  her  house,  she  will  have  stripped  you  of  all  the  silk  and  perfume.  But  tell  me,  first,  why  only  Rangi?  There  are  others,  both  experts  and  beginners.  I  will  drive  you  wherever  you  like.  I  have  carried  hundreds  like  you  on  such  an  errand.  But  shouldn't  I  first  take  you  to  amilk  shop  where  they  will  give  you  hot  milkwith  crushed  almond  to  give  you  stamina?  Just  as  a  routine,  my  boy.  ...I  will  take  you  wherever  you  want  to  go.  Not  my  business  anyway.  Someone  has  given  you  more  money  than  you  need?  Or  is  your  wife  pregnant,  and  away  at  her  mother's  house?  I  have  seen  all  the  tricks  that  husbands  play  on  their  wives.  I  know  the  world,  my  master.  Now  get  in.  What  difference  does  it  make  what  you  will  look  like  when  you  come  out  of  there?  I  will  take  you  wherever  you  like.&quot;  Krishna  obediently  got  into  the  car-  riage,  filling  its  interior  with  perfume  and  the  rustle  of  his  silken  robes.  Then  he  said,  &quot;All  right.  Take  me  home.&quot;  He  gave  his  address  so  mournfully  that  the  jutka  driver,  urging  his  horse,  said,  &quot;Don't  be  depressed,  my  young  master.  You  are  not  missing  anything.  Someday  you  will  think  of  this  old  fellow  again.&quot;  &quot;I  have  my  reasons,&quot;  Krishna  be-  gan,  gloomily.  The  horse  driver  said,  &quot;I  have  heard  it  all  before.  Don't  tell  me,&quot;  and  he  began  a  homily  on  conjugal  life.  Krishna  gave  up  all  attempts  to  ex-  plain  and  leaned  back,  resigning  him-  self  to  his  fate. "