 VYVHAT  YVE  SEE  BEFORE  [REDACTED]  Arthur  is  a  capable  and  interesting  child.  He  is  fairly  quiet  in  manner,  but  his  mind  is  busy.  He  often  delights  us  with  his  fine  memory  and  clarity  of  insight.  After  ourday  in  the  country  last  au-  tumn,  Arthur  identified  every  leaf,  shrub,  berry,  and  bit  of  bark  that  we  brought  back  with  us.  Arthur  is  not  only  agree-  able  himself  but  is  often  a  peacemaker  among  those  more  prone  to  have  social  friction.  There  is  but  one  thing  in  regard  to  Arthur  that  gives  me  special  concern,  and  that  is  his  careless  posture.  Perhaps  the  home  can  help  us,  in  order  that  his  body  may  be  as  erect  as  his  mind  is  alert.  rtHur  RosE  has  arranged  to  meet  Edward  Darcy,  a  booze  artist  who  was  formerly  married  to  Rose's  wife  and  is  thefather  of  Rose's  two  stepchildren,  at  the  information  booth  on  the  upper  level  of  Grand  Central,  at  8:25  a.M.,  so  they  can  take  the  eight-thirty-seven  to  White  Plains,  where  Darcy  is  to  appear  in  court.  Rose  arrives  on  time  and  finds  out  the  track:  no  Darcy,  as  Rose  had  rea-  son  ...  Rose  imagines  Darcy  sleeping  one  off  in  a  vestibule.  Rose  is  aware  that  he  usually  thinks  the  worst  of  people,  but  does  the  fact  that  he  often  thinks  the  worst  of  himself,  too,  excuse  him  in  any  way,  shape,  or  form?  And,  after  all,  Darcy  Aas,  in  point  of  fact,  lain  in  vestibules;  even,  once,  five  years  ago,  in  Rose's  vestibule,  when  Rose  had  just  married  Darcy's  wife,  and  it  hardly  ever  stopped  raining;  in  the  morning,  Darcy's  bare  feet  by  the  radiator.  On  their  way  out,  everyone  stepped  care-  fully  over  him  in  turn-the  children,  too-pretending,  Rose  conjectures,  that  Darcy  wasn't  there  or  was  somehow  inviolable.  Of  course,  for  Darcy  to  have  elected  to  spend  the  night  in  Rose's  vestibule-wasn't  he  saying,  in  effect,  that  as  far  as  he  was  concerned  Rose  wasn't  there?  Killing  time,  Rose  gazes  at  the  rep-  resentation  of  the  heavens  on  the  ceil-  ing.  No,  he  correctshimself,  as  the  imprisoned  king  rightly  observed,  time  is  killing  me.  More  probably,  Rose  decides,  Dar-  cy's  seated  in  a  luncheonette,  sugaring  his  second  cup  of  coffee,  wearing  that  pale  overcoat  several  sizes  too  big  for  him  someone  gave  him,  and  poorly  shaven.  A  luncheonette  in  a  subway  arcade-that  would  be  consonant  with  his  style.  Edward  is  always  a  helpful  member  of  the  group  and  has  splendid  attitudes.  However,  at  times  he  seems  nervously  tense.  He  is  musical,  but  his  attention  varies,  and  he  should  have  special  help  to  get  his  voice  up.  Edward  is  mastering  his  carelessness  in  art,  which  used  to  occasion  many  lost  results.  The  day  before,  Rose's  secretary  had  told  him  Darcy  was  in  the  recep-  tion  room.  Rose  found  him  in  a  Bar-  celona  chair,  with  two  or  three  days'  growth,  the  ghastly  overcoat  buttoned  to  his  throat.  Rose  went  up  to  him  and  asked  if  there  was  a  draft.  Arthur  is  a  sensitive,  gifted  child,  ar-  tistic  and  original.  He  is  bright  and  sym-  pathetic.  This  is  evident  in  his  intense  love  for  animals,  which  he  not  only  en-  joys  having  about  but  also  draws  most  skillfully  on  all  occasions.  His  creative  ability  and  originality  are  also  expressed  in  the  most  delightful  poems  and  stories.  These  are  often  about  animals,  too.  He  is  a  quiet  child,  but  deep  and  sincere  in  his  nature.  Darcy  winked.  Rose  said  he  didn't  seem  to  be  feel-  ing  any.  Darcy  said  he  didn't  seem  to  be  wearing  a  tie  and  that  he  didn't  wish  to  be  the  source  of  any  possible  embar-  rassment.  Edward  is  a  childof  subtle  nature  and  varied  abilities  who  needs  sympathetic  understanding  in  order  to  give  out  his  best.  Like  many  original,  creative  indi-  viduals,  he  is  exceedingly  sensitive  and  cannot  flower  in  a  forbidding  atmosphere.  In  music  he  has  poise,  humor,  and  dra-  matic  ability.  His  voice  is  low,  but  he  is  usually  in  tune.  Rose  asked  Darcy  if  he  minded  if  Rose  remained  standing.  Darcy  said  that  Rose  saw  before  him  ...  He  asked  Rose  what  did  he  see  before  him.  Rose  said  that,  be  that  as  it  might,  he  was  afraid  he  was  going  to  have  to  be  getting  back  to  the  old  ...and  he  reminded  Darcy  that  first  impressions  count  and  to  be  sure  to  shave  for  the  judge,  if  not  for  himself.  Darcy  asked  him  kindly  not  to  be  so  condescending.  Rose  asked  Darcy  kindly  to  recall  that  it  was  Rose  who  bailed  him  out  of  the  Westchester  County  Penitentiary  in  Valhalla,  of  all  places,  the  bond     being  in  the  sum  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  dollars,  after  Darcy's  No.  3,  whom  Rose  had  never  had  the  pleasure,  had  charged  Darcy  with  assault,  and  wasn't  it  time  to  turn  over  a  new  leaf.  Arthur  is  a  highly  intelligent  child,  honest  and  sincere.  He  is  capable  with  his  hands.  and  most  artistic  and  original.  He  is  a  quiet  and  reserved  boy,  with  great  latent  power.  His  contributions  in  class  show  depth  of  thought  and  com-  mon  sense.  Arthur  has  made  several  de-  lightful  contributions  in  poetry,  showing  a  lovely  imaginative  ability.  Darcy  said  as  it  so  happened  it  had  nothing  to  do  with  thesauce.  Rose  said  as  it  so  happened  he  couldn't  think  of  anything  tosay.  Darcy  said  for  the  millionth  time  it  was  she  who  concussed  Aim  with  the  large  pot  of  ferns,  which,  Rose  may  have  recalled,  figured  in  the  case.  Rose  said  he  really  wasn't  interested  in  who  was  in  the  right.  Darcy  said  that,  howmsoever,  it  would  be  Aim  whom  they  would  be  sending  to  Grasslands,  of  all  places,  for  observation,  and  that  Rose's  attitude  was  once  more  indicative  of  his  in-  sensitivity  to  his  fellow-man.  Rose  said  that  once  more  Darcy  had  misconstrued  him,  and  that  what  he  meantwas  that  in  the  eyes  of  the  law  it  no  longer  made  any  difference  who  threw  what  at  whom  how  many  times.  Darcy  asked  Rose  for  five  for  a  room.  Edward  shows  progress,  though  I  feel  he  is  capable  of  better  work,  We  must  encourage  greater  pride  in  achievement  and  workmanship.  He  has  strong  likes  and  dislikes,  and  once  he  has  made  up  his  mind  it  is  difficult  to  get  him  to  ad-  mit  the  right  of  the  other  side.  He  seems  happily  adjusted,  though  he  is  not  a  good  mixer.  Edward  can  carry  a  tune  when  he  sings  alone,  but  when  he  sings  with  his  classmates  he  has  difficulty  in  singing  accurately.  Rose  said  he  was  fiving  him  to  death  and  that  he'd  think  more  highly  of  Darcy  if  he  didn't  wave  his  arms  about  so.  Darcy  asked  Rose  why  he  felt  obliged  to  shout  at  those  less  privi-  leged  than  him.  Rose  said  than  he.  Darcy  said  Rose  was  way  out  of  touch  with  himself.  Rose  went  ho,  ho.  Arthur  is  a  thoughtful,  serious  child,  but  at  times  he  seems  almost  wistful.  He  should  be  encouraged,  as  he  is  one  of  those  to  whom  a  word  of  encourage-  ment  and  recognition  of  good  work  means  a  good  deal,  He  has  been  growing  rapid-  " b" ly  and  needs  to  watch  his  posture.  Ar-  thur  seldom  smiles.  Darcy  said  verywell,  ho,  ho-add-  ing  that  three  would  do.  Rose  reminded  Darcy  that  he'd  be  rotting  in  the  Valhalla  can  if  Rose  hadn't  ...  Darcy  told  Rose  that  he  no  longer  had  the  right  to  choose  when  he  might  abandon  him,  and  that  he  was  rotting,  yes,yes,  rotting,  here,  here.  Rose  inquired  of  Darcy  who  the  hell  he  thought  Rose  was.  Darey  said  his  fellow-man.  Rose  asked  him  how  he  reached  that  striking  conclusion.  Darcy  said  because  he  cared.  Rose  asked  about  whom.  Darcy  said  about  Darcy.  Rose  said  no,  that  he  rather  gathered  he  did  it,  meaning  springing  Darcy,  for  himself.  Darcy  said,  well,  good  for  him.  Rose  said  that  what  it  waswas  that  Darcy's  plight  per  se  didn't  matter  any-  more;  what  did  was,  repeatedly,  the  act  of  resurrection:  bending  down,  bending  down,  bending  down.  Darcy  said  he  was  full  of  it  and  was  still  trying  to  ingratiate  himself  with  the  [REDACTED].  Rose  said  that,  be  that  as  it  might,  he  was  afraid  he  was  going  to  have  to  be  getting  back  to  the  old  ...  and  that  there  seemed  to  be  little  further  to  be  gained,  and  that  he  would  be  seeing  him,  on  his  two  feet,in  the  [REDACTED]  Darcy  said  it  wasn't  fair  to  keep  letting  him  down  so  he  could  pick  him  up.  Rose  said  that  wasn't  his  impression.  Darcy  shrugged.  felt  Rose  Rose  made  to  leave.  Darcy,  rising,  said  it  was  somewhat  awkward,  buthe  could  use  two  until  the  a.m.,  and,  not  so  fast,  he  would  repay  him  out  of  his  next  relief  check  and  they'dbe  all  squared  away.  Rose  reminded  Darcy  that  he  owed  him,  hmm,  in  child  support,  at,  hmm,  thirty-five  a  week-that's,  hmm  ...  Darcy  said,  hmm,  one  thousand  eight  hundred  and  twenty  dollars  per  annum.  Rose  said,  hmm,  hmm,  for  four  anri,  and  one,  two,  three,  October-  no,  from  the  twentieth-November,  December,  three,  four,  andtwo  weeks  in  March,  hmm,  hmm  ...  Darcy  told  Rose  you  had  to  break  it  down  into  weeks,  which,  hmm,  hmm,  made  it  seven  thousand  nine  hundred  and  eighty.  Rose  reminded  Darcy  that  he  owed  him  in  the  neighborhood  of  eight  thou-  sand  dollars  in  child  support,  and  if  one  cared  to  project  his  future  from  his  past  they'd  never  be  all  squared  away  in  this  world.  Darcy  said  Rose  was  a  scrounge  and  a  lousy  hard  determinist,  and  that,  fur-  thermore,  liberum  arbitrium   indiffe-  rentiac,  and  that  his  understanding  when  he  signed  the  separation  agree-  ment  was  that  it  was  just  a  formality,  given  the  bag  he  was  in,  and  that  Rose  was  lacking  in  maturity  to  throw  the  support  thing  at  him  now,  and  that  if  he  felt  like  doing  the  bending  bit,  bend  somewhere  else.  Edward  evidently  prefers  to  remain  in  the  background  and  appears  to  find  great-  er  satisfaction  in  listening  than  in  taking  part.  He  will  pay  attention  to  criticisms  or  suggestions,  but  rarely  makes  use  of  them.  At  times  he  is  too  readily  satisfied  with  mediocre  results,  although  of  late  he  is  beginning  to  check  his  work  before  letting  it  falsely  represent  his  ability.  At  eight-forty,  Rose  is  turning  a  shoe  this  way  and  that,  inducing  re-  fections;  Darcy  is  trying  to  get  the  counterman's  attention.  Rose  lightly  closes  his  eyes  and  is  appalled  by  hun-  dreds  of  footfalls.  What's  said  has  al-  ways  been  drowned  out  by  that,  he  thinks.  Arthur  remains  rather  quiet  but  gets  on  exceedingly  well  with  his  contempo-  raries.  His  work  habits  are  much  im-  proved,  although  he  is  likely  to  go  off  on  a  tangent  or  pursue  odd  or  fantastic  as-  pects  of  the  job  at  hand.  It  is  not  clear  whether  this  is  due  to  intellectual  curi-  osity  or  to  escapism.  Arthur  has  a  great  fecilityin  art.  This  is  a  special  gift  and  should  be  nurtured.  At  nine-twenty,  afterthe  departure  of  the  last  train  that  would  have  got  them  to  White  Plains  in  time  for  Darcy's  appearance  in  court,  Rose  re-  calls  Darcy  blissfully  asleep  that  time  in  the  vestibule,  his  shoes  set  to  one  side,  lined  up  and  stuffed  with  newspaper,  his  socks  on  the  radiator  cover  where  he  had  put  them  to  dry,  and  the  four  of  them,  in  Indian  file,  stepping  over  Darcy,  and  Rose  realizes  that,  in  a  way,  his  foot  is  still  suspended  in  the  air  and  that  he  doesn't  know  quite  where  to  put  it  down;  Darcy  shifts  on  his  stool.  Those  who  require  the  greatest  amount  of  work  from  Edward  are  unanimous  in  their  comments  on  his  carelessness  in  re-  gard  to  form  and  neatness.  Edward  re-  sents  criticism  on  this  score  and  refuses  to  see  that  such  things  are  important.  His  occasional  excellent  work  appears  to  give  him  an  unwarranted  overconfidence  that  he  can  repeat  the  performance  at  all  times  with  little  effort  on  his  part.  -GimBErtT  Room  "