 THE  ELDEST  CHILD  rs.  Bacor  had  lived  in  the  house  for  fifteen  years,  ever  since  her  marriage.  It  was  on  a  narrow  street,  a  dead  end,  in  the  suburbs  of  [REDACTED].  Her  three  children  had  been  born  there,  in  the  upstairs  front  bedroom,  and  she  was  glad  of  that,  because  her  first  child,  her  son,  was  dead,  and  it  comforted  her  to  think  that  she  was  still  familiar  with  what  had  been  his  one  glimpse  of  earth-he  had  died  at  three  days.  At  the  time  he  died  she  said  to  herself  that  she  would  never  get  used  to  it,  and  what  she  meant  by  that  was  that  as  long  as  she  lived  she  would  never  ac-  cept  what  had  happened  in  the  me-  chanical  subdued  way  that  the  rest  of  them  accepted  it.  They  carried  on,  they  talked  and  moved  about  her  room  as  though  when  they  tidied  the  baby  away  they  had  really  tidied  him  away,  and  it  seemed  to  her  that  more  than  anything  else  they  expressed  the  hope  that  nothing  more  would  be  said  about  him.  They  behaved  as  though  what  had  happened  was  finished,  as  though  some  ordinary  event  had  taken  place  and  come  to  an  end  in  a  natural  way.  There  had  not  been  an  ordinary  event,  and  it  had  not  come  to  an  end.  Lying  in  her  bed,  Mrs.Bagot  thought  her  husband  and  the  rest  of  them  seemed  very  strange,  or  else,  she  thought  fearfully,  perhaps  it  was  she  herself  who  was  strange,  delirious,  or  even  a  bit  unbalanced.  If  she  was  un-  balanced  she  wasn't  going  to  let  them  know  about  it-not  even  Martin,  who  kept  looking  at  her  with  frightened  eyes     and  telling  her  she  must  try  to  rest.  It  might  be  better  not  to  talk,  yet  she  was  very  anxious  to  explain  how  she  felt.  Words  did  no  good.  Either  they  did  not  want  to  hear  her,  or  they  were  not  able  to  hear  her.  What  she  was  trying  to  tell  them  seemed  very  simple  to  her.  What  had  happened  could  not  come  to  an  end,  that  was  all.  It  could  not  come  to  an  end.  Without  a  mem-  ory,  how  was  the  baby  going  to  find  his  way?  Mrs.Bagot  would  have  liked  to  ask  that  question,  but  she  wanted  to  express  it  properly,  and  she  thought  if  she  could  just  be  left  alone  for  a  while  she  would  be  able  to  find  the  right  words,  so  that  she  could  make  herself  clearly  understood-but  they  wouldn't  leave  her  alone.  They  kept  trying  to  rouse  her,  and  yet  when  she  spoke  for  any  length  of  time  they  always  silenced  her  by  telling  her  it  was  God's  will.  She  had  accepted  God's  will  all  her  life  without  argu-  ment,  and  she  was  not  arguing  now,  but  she  knew  that  what  had  hap-  pened  was  not  finished,  and  she  was  sure  it  was  not  God's  will  that  she  be  left  in  this  bewilderment.  All  she  wanted  was  to  say  how  she  felt,  but  they  mentioned  God's  will  as  though  they  were  slamming  a  door  between  her  and  some  territory  that  was  for-  bidden  to  her.  But  only  to  her;  every-  body  else  knew  all  about  it.  She  alone  must  lic  quiet  and  silent  under  this  semblance  of  ignorance  that  they  wrapped  about  her  like  a  shroud.  They  wanted  her  to  be  silent  and  not  speak  of  this  knowledge  she  had  now,  the     JUNE  29,  19  6  8  knowledge  that  made  her  afraid.  It  was  the  same  knowledge  thev  all  had,  of  course,  but  they  did  not  want  it  spoken  of.  Everything  about  her  seemed  false,  and  Mrs.Bagot  was  tired  of  everything.  She  was  tired  of  being  told  that  she  must  do  this  for  her  own  good  and  that  she  must  do  thatfor  her  own  good,  and  it  annoyed  her  when  they  said  she  was  being  brave-she  was  being  what  she  had  to  be,  she  hadno  alternative.  She  felt  very  uncomfortable  and  out  of  place,  and  as  though  she  had  failed,  but  she  did  not  know  whether  to  push  her  fail-  ure  away  or  comfort  it,  and  in  any  case  it  seemed  to  have  drifted  out  of  reach.  She  was  not  making  sense.  She  could  not  get  her  thoughts  sorted  out.  Something  was  drifting  away-  that  was  as  far  as  she  could  go  in  her  mind.  No  wonder  she  couldn't  talk  properly.  What  she  wanted  to  say  was  really  quite  simple.  Two  things.  First,  there  was  the  failure  that  had  emptied  and  darkened  her  mind  until  nothing  remained  now  but  a  black  wash,.  Second,  there  was  something  that  drifted  and  dwindled,  always  dwindling,  until  it  was  now  no  more  than  a  small  shape,  very  small,  not  to  be  identified  except  as  something  lost.  Mrs.  Bagot  thought  she  was  the  only  one  who  could  still  identify  that  shape,  and  she  was  afraid  to  take  her  eyes  off  it,  because  it  became  constant-  ly  smaller,  showing  as  it  diminished  the  new  horizons  it  was  reaching,  al-  though  it  drifted  so  gently  it  seemed  not  to  move  at  all.  Mrs.  Bagot  would  never  have  dreamed  her  mind  could  stretch  so  far,  or  that  her  thoughts  could  follow  so  faithfully,  or  that  she  could  watch  so  steadily,  without  tears  or  sleep.  The  fierce  demands  that  had  been  made  on  her  body  and  on  her  attention  were  fin-  ished.  She  could  have  met  all  those  demands,  and  more.  She  could  have  moved  mountains.  She  had  found  that  the  more  thechild  demanded  of  her,  the  more  she  had  to  give.  Her  strength  came  up  in  waves  that  had  their  source  in  a  sea  of  calm  and  unconquerable  de-  votion.  The  child's  holy  trust  made  her  open  her  eyes,  and  she  took  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  stock  of  herself  and  found  that  everything  was  all  right,  and  that  she  could  meet  what  challenges  arose  and  meet  them  well,  and  that  she  had  nothing  to  apologize  for-on  the  contrary,  she  had  every  reason  to  rejoice.  Her  days  took  onan  orderliness  that  intro-  duced  her  to  a  sense  of  ease  and  confidence  she  had  never  been  told  about.  The  house  be-  came  a  kingdom,  signifi-  cant,  private,  and  safe.  She  smiled  often,  a  smile  of  innocent  im-  portance.  Perhaps  she  had  let  herself  get  too  proud.  She  had  seen  at  once  that  the  child  was  unique.  She  had  been  thankful,  but  perhaps  not  thankful  enough.  The  first  minute  she  had  held  him  in  her  arms,  immediately  after  he  was  born,  she  had  seen  his  friendliness.  He  was  fine.  There  was  noth-  ing  in  the  world  the  matter  withhim.  She  hadremarked  to  her-  self  that  his  tiny  face  had  a  very  humorous  expression,  as  though  he  already  knew  exact-  ly  what  going  on.  And  he  was  determined  to  live.  He  was  full  of  fight.  She  had  felt  him  fight  toward  life  with  all  her  strength,  and  then  again,  with  all  her  strength.  In  a  little  while,  he  would  have  rec-  ognized  her.  What  she  watched  now  made  no  demands  on  anyone.  There  was  no  impatience  there,  and  no  impatience  in  her,  either.  She  lay  on  her  side,  and  her  hand  beat  gently  on  the  pillow  in  obedience  to  words,  an  old  tune,  that  had  been  sounding  in  her  head  for  some  time,  and  that  she  now  began  to  listen  to.  It  was  an  old  song,  very  slow,a  tenor  voice  from  long  ago  and  far  away.  She  listened  idly.  was  &quot;Oft  in  the  stilly  night,  Ere  slumber's  chain  has  bound  me,  Fond  memory  brings  the  light  Of  other  days  around  me  ...&quot;  Over  and  over  and  over  again,the  same  words,  the  same  kind,  simple  words.  Mrs.  Bagot  thought  she  must  have  heard  that  song  a  hundred  times  or  more.  &quot;Oft  in  the  stilly  night,  Ere  slumber's  chain  has  bound  me,  Fond  memory  brings  the  light  Of  other  days  around  me;  The  smiles,  the  tears,  Of  boyhood's  years.  The  words  of  love  then  spoken;  The  eyesthat  shone  Now  dimmed  and  gone,  The  cheerful  hearts  now  broken.&quot;  It  was  a  very  kind  song.  She  had  never  noticed  the  words  before,  even  though  she  knew  them  well.  Loving  words,  loving  eyes,  loving  hearts.  The  faraway  voice  she  listened  to  was  joined  by  others,  as  the  first  bird  of  dawn  is  joined  by  other  birds,  all  telling  the  same  story,  telling  it  over  and  over  again,  because  it  is  the  only  story  they  know.  There  was  the  song,  and  then,  there  was  the  small  shape  that  drifted  un-  complainingly  from  distant  horizon  to  still  more  distant  horizon.  Mrs.  Bagot  closed  her  eyes.  She  felt  herself  being  beckoned  to  a  place  where  she  could  hide,  for  the  time  being.  For  the  past  day  or  so,  she  had  turned  from  everyone,  even  from  Mar-  tin.  He  no  longer  attempted  to  touch  her.  He  had  not  even  touched  her  hand  since  the  evening  he  knelt  down  be-  side  the  bed  and  tried  to  put  his  arms  around  her.  She  struggled  so  fiercely  against  him  that  he  had  to  let  her  go,  and  he  stood  up  and  stepped  away  from  her.  It  really  seemed  she  might  injure  herself,  fighting  against  him,  and  that  she  would  rather  injure  her-  self  than  lie  quietly  against  him,  even  for  a  minute.  He  could  not  understand  her.  It  was  his  loss  as  much  as  hers,  but  she  behaved  as  though  it  had  to  do  only  with  her.  She  pushed  him  away,  and  then  when  she  was  free  of  him  she  turned  her  face  away  from  him  and  began  crying  in  a  way  that  pleaded  for  attention  and  consolation  from  " b"32  someone,  but  not  from  him-that  was  plain.  But  before  that,  when  she  was  pushing  him  away,  he  had  seen  her  face,  and  the  expression  on  it  was  of  hatred.  She  might  have  been  a  wild  animal,  for  all  the  control  he  had  over  her  then,  but  if  so  she  was  a  wild  ani-  mal  in  a  trap,  because  she  was  too  weak  to  go  very  far.  He  pitied  her,  and  the  thought  sped  through  his  mind  that  if  she  could  get  up  and  run,  or  fly,  he  would  let  her  go  as  far  as  she  wished,  and  hope  she  would  come  back  to  him  in  her  own  time,  when  her  anger  and  grief  were  spent.  But  he  forgot  that  thought  immediately  in  his  panic  at  her  distress,  and  he  called  down  to  the  woman  who  had  come  in  to  help  around  the  house,  and  asked  her  to  come  up  at  once.  She  had  heard  the  noise  and  was  on  her  way  up  anyway,  and  she  was  in  the  room  almost  as  soon  as  he  called-Mrs.  Knox,  a  small,  red-faced,  gray-haired  woman  who  en-  joyed  the  illusion  that  life  had  nothing  to  teach  her.  &quot;Oh,  I've  been  afraid  of  this  all  day,&quot;  she  said  confidently,  and  she  be-  gan  to  lift  Mrs.  Bagot  up  so  that  she  could  straighten  the  pillows  and  prop  her  up  for  her  tea.  But  Mrs.  Bagot  struck  out  at  the  woman  and  began  crying,  &quot;Oh,  leave  me  alone,  leave  me  alone.  Why  can't  the  two  of  you  leave  me  alone.&quot;  Then  she  wailed,  &quot;Oh,  leave  me  alone,&quot;  in  a  high  strange  voice,  an  artificial  voice,  and  at  that  moment  Mr.  Bagot  became  convinced  that  she  was  acting,  and  that  the  best  thing  to  do  was  walk  off  and  leave  her  there,  whether  that  was  what  she  really  wanted  or  not.  Oh,  but  heloved  her.  He  stared  at  her,  and  said  to  himself  that  it  would  have  given  him  the  great-  est  joy  to  see  her  lying  there  with  the  baby  in  her  arms,  but  although  that  was  true,  the  reverse  was  not  true-to  see  her  lying  there  as  she  was  did  not  cause  him  terrible  grief  or  anything  like  it.  He  felt  ashamed  and  lonely  and  im-  patient,  and  he  longed  to  say  to  her,  &quot;Delia,  stop  all  this  nonsense  and  let  me  talk  to  you.&quot;  He  wanted  to  appear  masterful  and  kind  and  understanding,  but  she  drowned  him  out  with  her  wails,  and  he  made  up  his  mind  she  was  acting,  because  if  she  was  not  act-  ing,  and  if  the  grief  she  felt  was  real,  then  it  was  excessive  grief,  and  perhaps  incurable.  She  was  getting  stronger  every  day,  the  doctor  had  said  so,  and  she  had  better  learn  to  control  herself  or  she  would  be  a  nervous  wreck.  And  it  wasn't  a  bit  like  her,  to  have  no  thought  for  him,  or  for  what  he  might  be  suffering.  It  wasn't  like  her  at  all.  She  was  always  kind.  He  began  to  fear  she  would  never  be  the  same.  He  would  have  liked  to  kneel  down  beside  the  bed  and  talk  to  her  in  a  very  quiet     voice,  and  make  her  understand  that  he  knew  what  she  was  going  through,  and  that  he  was  going  through  much  the  same  thing  himself,  and  to  ask  her  not  to  shut  him  away  from  her.  But  he  felt  afraid  of  her,  and  in  any  case  Mrs.  Knox  was  in  the  room.  He  was  helpless.  He  was  trying  to  think  of  something  tosay,  not  to  walk  out  in  silence,  when  Mrs.  Knox  came  around  the  end  of  the  bed  and  touched  his  arm  familiarly,  as  though  they  were  conspirators.  &quot;'The  poor  child  is  upset,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We'll  leave  her  by  herself  awhile,  and  then  I'll  bring  her  up  something  to  eat.  Now,  you  go  along  down.  I  have  your  own  tea  all  ready.&quot;  Delia  turned  her  headon  the  pillow  and  looked  at  him.  &quot;Martin,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  am  not  angry  with  you.&quot;  He  would  have  gone  to  her  then,  but  Mrs.  Knox  spoke  at  once.  &quot;We  know  you're  not  angry,  Mrs.  Bagot,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Now,  you  rest  yourself,  and  I'll  be  back  in  a  minute  with  your  tray.&quot;  Shegave  Martin  a  little  push  to  start  him  out  of  the  room,  and  since  Delia  was  already  turning  her  face  away,  he  walked  out  and  down  the  stairs.  There  seemed  to  be  noend  to  the  damage-even  the  house  looked  bleak  and  the  furniture  looked  poor  and  cheap.  It  was  only  a  year  since  they  moved  into  the  house,  and  it  had  all  " b"   seemed  lovely  then.  Only  a  year.  He  was  beginning  to  fear  that  Delia  had  turned  against  him.  He  had  visions  of  awful  scenes  and  strains  in  the  future,  a  miserable  life.  He  wished  they  could  go  back  to  the  beginning  and  start  all  over  again,  but  the  place  where  they  had  stood  together,  where  they  had  been  happy,  was  all  trampled  over  and  so  spoiled  that  it  seemed  impossible  ever  to  make  it  smooth  again.  And  how  could  they  even  begin  to  make  it  smooth  with  this  one  memory,  which  they  should  have  shared,  standing  like  an  enemy  between  them  and  making  enemies  out  of  them.  He  would  not  let  himself  think  of  the  baby.  He  might  never  be  able  to  forget  the  shape  of  the  poor  little  defeated  bundle  he  had  carried  out  of  the  bedroom  in  his  arms,  and  that  he  had  cried  over  down  here  in  the  hall,  but  he  was  not  going  to  let  his  mind  dwell  on  it,  not  for  one  min-  ute,  He  wanted  Delia  as  she  used  to  be.  He  wanted  the  girl  who  would  never  have  struck  out  at  him,  or  spoken  roughly  to  him.  He  was  beginning  to  see  there  were  things  about  her  that  he  had  never  guessed  at  and  that  he  did  not  want  to  know  about.  He  thought,  Better  let  her  rest,  and  let  this  fit  work  itself  out.  Maybe  tomor-  row  she'll  be  herself  again.  He  had  a  fancy  that  when  he  next  approached  Delia  it  would  be  on  tiptoe,  going  very  quictly,  hardly  breathing,  moving  into  her  presence  without  a  sound  that  might  startle  her,  or  surprise  her,  or  even  wake  her  up,  so  that  he  might  find  her  again  as  she  had  been  the  first  time  he  saw  her,  quiet,  untroubled,  hardly  speaking,  alone,  altogether  alone  and  all  his.  Mrs.  Bagot  was  telling  the  truth  when  she  told  Martin  she  was  not  angry  with  him.  It  irritated  her  that  he  thought  all  he  had  to  do  was  put  his  arms  around  her  and  all  her  sorrow  would  go  away,  but  she  wasn't  really  angry  with  him.  What  it  was-he  held  her  so  tightly  that  she  was  afraid  she  might  lose  sight  of  the  baby,  and  the  fear  made  her  frantic.  The  baby  must  not  drift  out  of  sight,  that  was  heronly  thought,  and  that  is  why  she  struck  out  at  Martin  and  begged  to  be  left  alone.  As  he  walked  out  of  the  room,  she  turned  her  face  away  so  that  he  would  not  see  the  tears  beginning  to  pour  down  her  face  again.  Then  she  slept.  When  Martin  came  up  to  the  room  next  time,  she  was  asleep,  and  not,  as  he  suspected,  pretending  to  be  asleep,  but  he  was  grateful  for  the  pretense,  if  that  is  what  it  was,  and  he  crept  away,  back  downstairs  to  his  book.  MRS.  Bacot  slept  for  a  long  time.  When  she  woke  up,  the  room  was  dark  and  the  house  was  silent.  Outside  was  silent  too;  she  could  hear  nothing.  This  was  the  front  bedroom,  where  she  and  Martin  slept  together,  and  she  lay  in  their  big  bed.  The  room  was  made  irregular  by  its  windows-a  bow  window,  and  then,  in  the  flat  section  of  wall  that  faced  the  door,  French  windows.  The  French  win-  dows  were  partly  open,  and  the  long  white  net  curtains  that  covered  them  moved  gently  in  a  breeze  Mrs.  Bagot  could  not  feel.  She  had  washed  all  the  curtains  last  week,  and  starched  them,  getting  the  room  ready  for  the  baby.  In  the  dim  light  of  the  street  lamp,  she  could  see  the  dark  roof  line  of  the  row  of  houses  across  the  street,  and  beyond  the  houses  a  very  soft  black-  ness,  the  sky.  She  was  much  calmer  than  she  had  been,  and  she  no  longer  feared  that  she  would  lose  sight  of  the  small  shape  that  had  drifted,  she  no-  ticed,  much  farther  away  while  she  slept.  He  was  travelling  a  long  way,  but  she  would  watch  him.  She  was  his  mother,  and  it  was  all  she  could  do  for  him  now.  She  could  do  it.  She  was  weak,  and  the  world  was  very  shaky,  but  the  light  of  other  days  shone  steadily  and  showed  the  truth.  She  was  no  longer  bewildered,  only  dull,  and  the  next  time  Martin  came  to  stand  hopefully  beside  her  bed  she  smiled  at  him  and  spoke  to  him  in  her  ordinary  voice. "