 FRED  AND  ARTHUR  66s  I  \\RIENDS,  Romans,  country-  a  cheery  tone  under  the  roar  of  the  men,  *&quot;  shouted  Fred  Stokes  at  thetopof  the  Forum  steps,  carrying  Arthur  Moe  in  his  arms  cen-  ter  stage.  They  wore  togas,  sandals,  and  short  white  socks.  Fred  was  thin,  Arthur  very  fat,  and  Fred's  head  made  a  pecking  movement  over  the  bulk  of  his  friend  with  the  effort  of  bearing  the  load.  Arthur  felt  anxiety  in  the  grip  and  spoke  into  the  pullet  neck  on  the  up-  stage  side.  &quot;You've  got  your  weight  wrong.&quot;  &quot;Lend  me  your  ears,&quot;  Fred  orated,  altering  his  hold  and  guttering  at  the  knees.  &quot;It's  your  right  foot.&quot;  &quot;&quot;I  come  to  bury  Caesar,  not  to  praise  him.  &quot;  Fred  was  still  concen-  trated  on  his  clasp  instead  of  his  bal-  ance,  and  getting  sworn  atfor  it.  Their  manager,  standing  in  the  wings,  won-  dered  what  Arthur  was  yakking  about,  and  at  the  same  time  had  a  moment  of  seeing  them  as  Gandhi  carrying  a  buffalo.  &quot;I'll  have  to  do  a  fall,&quot;  Arthur  muttered.  He  gathered  his  great  weight  neatly  to  a  point  against  Fred's  sickly-  looking  chest,  said  &quot;Serve  you  right&quot;  in     music-hall  audience  and  shoved  away,  grounding  delicately  at  the  foot  of  the  Forum  steps  and  watching  his  partner  with  one  eye.  Fred  was  thundering  on  with  the  speech  as  though  the  corpse  hadn't  fled,  and  at  the  same  time  bob-  bing  up  onto  the  balls  of  his  feet  with  relief  from  the  lost  burden.  Arthur  scrutinized  the  business  and  thought  it  makeshift  but  not  bad.  He  started  taking  apart  the  engineering  of  the  scene,  keeping  count  of  the  timing  in  his  head.  They  went  back  to  their  dressing  room  in  a  hurry  as  soon  as  the  act  was  over,  and  Arthur  started  a  metronome.  Fred  tucked  his  toga  between  his  legs  like  a  baby's  nappy  and  picked  his  friend  up.  &quot;I  don't  see  what  I  did  different,&quot;  he  said,  facing  front  to  inspect  the  two  of  them  in  the  mirror  and  then  turning  round  to  have  a  look  from  the  side.  &quot;I  told  you.  Your  weight  was  on  the  wrong  foot.  It  still  is.  You  can't  hardly  maneuver.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  bad,  what  we  did.&quot;  &quot;Best  get  it  straight  the  old  way  first.  Seventeen,  eighteen,  Lend  me  your  ears,  then  my  sneeze  on  nine-  teen,  and  your  slap  on  twenty.&quot;  &quot;I  liked  the  fall  better  myself,&quot;  Fred  said.  &quot;Let's  keep  it.  Long  time  since  we  did  a  fall.&quot;  &quot;Bit  old-fashioned,  isn't  it?&quot;  said  Arthur.  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?  Falls  don't  date.&quot;  &quot;'Take  it  from  fourteen,&quot;  said  Ar-  thur.  &quot;'Friends,  Romans..  My  shoulders  is  busting.&quot;  &quot;Fifteen,  sixteen.  Carry  on,  I'm  counting.  You've  got  to  'come  to.  Nineteen,  twenty.&quot;  &quot;'Bury  Caesar,  not  to?  Now  I'm  on  my  left  foot.  Suppose  I  stay  on  it.  'Praise  him.  &quot;  &quot;Twenty-four,  twenty-five.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  going  or  not?  I  said  praise  him.  That's  where  you  did  it  before.&quot;  Fred  watched  carefully  in  the  mirror  for  some  muscular  indica-  tion  of  what  his  friend  had  in  mind.  The  bulk  lay  poleaxed.  &quot;Twenty-  five,&quot;  it  said  again.  &quot;'The  evil  that  men  do.?  You've  gone  and  left  it  far  too  late.  Lives  after  them,  the  good  is  oft  interred  with  their  bones.  You'll  have  to  go,  I've  run  out  of  words.&quot;  But  by  now  Arthurhad  quit,  flying  smoothlythrough  the  air  like  a  zeppelin  and  saying  &quot;Thirty-one,  thirty-two&quot;  as  he  went.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said,  rolling  lightly  onto  the  floor.  l\xe2\x80\x98Again.\xe2\x80\x9d  Their  manager  came  into  the  room.  &quot;If  you  don't  keep  in  that  fall,  I'm  stopping  your  sweets,&quot;  he  said,  and  then  looked  down  atthe  mass  of  Ar-  thur  on  the  ground.  &quot;I  haven't  seen  you  do  one  like  that  since  your  old  dad  was  alive.&quot;  &quot;It's  all  in  the  position  of  the  head,&quot;  said  Fred,  sitting  down  and  having  a  beer.  &quot;I  can't  do  it.  Not  like  he  can.  You  usethe  head  as  the  rudder.&quot;  He  stopped  the  metronome  and  put  his  hands  on  his  bony  kneecaps,  looking  in-  to  the  mirror  at  his  gloomy  Indian-  brave's  face.  Arthur  watched  him,  pulled  in  his  stomach,  listened  to  the  loudspeaker  to  hear  how  the  performing  dog  was  do-  ing,  and  thought  seriously  enough  that  he  hadn't  seen  Fred  so  exhilarated  since  last  August  at  Blackpool.  &quot;Good  date,  this.  I've  always  liked  Huddersfield,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  putting  on  weight,&quot;  said  the  manager,  picking  up  Arthur's  belt  and  looking  at  the  notches.  &quot;No,  he's  not,&quot;  Fred  said  loyally.  &quot;'That's  muscle.&quot;  After  the  second  house  the  two  of  them  went  out  to  supper.  It  was  their  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  ninth  year  together,  and  they  had  been  top  of  the  bill  at  the  Palladium  in  the  West  End  six  years  run-  ning.  It  was  a  buoyant  eve-  ning.  They  had  four  pints  of  beer  each  and  a  slap-up  dinner  in  one  of  Hudders-  field's  new  swinging  joints.  &quot;Changed  a  bit,&quot;  said  Arthur,  looking  at  a  girl  dancing  in  a  miniskirt  not  much  deeper  than  a  belt.  &quot;My  old  dad  used  to  sing  Handel  here  in  the  workingmen's  choir,&quot;  Fred  said.  &quot;Came  up  from  Lon-  don  by  coach.  They  like  Handel  here.  Here  and  Newcastle.&quot;  &quot;Newcastle's  a  good  date,  too.&quot;  Arthur  and  Fred  had  been  to  school  together.  Their  partnership  seemed  freakishly  fortunate.  When  they  went  out  on  their  own  with  girls,  they  tended  to  fix  things  for  the  same  eve-  ning  so  as  not  to  spend  two  nights  separated  where  one  would  do.  Fred's  father  had  owned  a  pub  near  a  music  hall  where  Arthur's  father  had  often  played,  and  before  their  sons  were  evenborn  the  men  had  sometimes  had  Saturday-  night  booze-ups  together.  Arthur's  father  had  been  a  famous  comic  called  Willie  Moe,  and  his  mother,  Queenie,  was  the  butt  in  Willie's  routine.  When  he  mar-  ried  her,  she  was  a  reserved,  very  plain  girl  who  played  the  harp  in  a  provincial  symphony  orchestra.  She  had  learned  the  harp  because  she  had  once  been  told  that  she  had  beautiful  elbows,  and  harp  playing  seemed  to  make  better  use  than  most  careers  of  the  Lord's  stingy  gift.  Her  husband  admired  her  serious-mindedness,  and  at  the  same  time  saw  that  her  absence  of  humor  held  comic  promise  for  his  act.  He  would  plant  her  downstage  and  get  her  to  start  playing  &quot;I  dreamt  that  I  dwelt  in  marble  halls,&quot;  and  then  sabotage  her  work  from  the  back  wall.  As  soon  as  the  infant  Arthur  was  old  enough  to  be  propped  against  the  proscenium  arch,  he  was  included  in  the  turn.  There  was  nothing  else  to  do  with  him;  theatrical  landladies  didn't  offer  babysitting  with  the  rent,  When  he  strayed,  his  mother  would  shove  him  back  into  position  with  her  foot  as  she  harped.  Then  one  night  the  child  fell   onto  the  bass  drum,plummeting  ten  feet  into  the  orchestra  pit  without  seeming  to  harbor  a  grudge,  and  it  oc-  curred  to  his  father  to  try  bouncing  him.  Arthur  commanded  fame  and  re-  spect  in  the  profession  for  several  years  as  &quot;The  Living  Football,&quot;  followed  by  &quot;The  Living  Boomerang&quot;  and  &quot;The  Living  Dart.&quot;  The  characterizations  consisted  of  being  rolled  up  into  a  sphere  by  Willie,  or  swung  by  one  arm,  or  aimed  at  a  dartboard  while  wearing  a  trick  suction  device  on  his  head.  The  cap  fixed  him  securely  to  the  board,  with  his  airborne  body  trembling  be-  hind  him  like  the  handle  of  a  plunged  dagger.  Later  on,  when  he  was  five  and  too  heavy  to  play  a  dart  satisfac-  torily,  he  became  &quot;The  Living  Glad-  stone  Bag.&quot;  He  wore  a  handle  on  the  back  of  his  costume,  stitched  there  by  his  hard-driven  mother  herself  because  she  wasn't  going  to  have  some  theatri-  cal  costumier  treating  her  son  as  if  he  were  a  sequin.  His  onstage  father  would  unsnap  the  child's  clothes,  which  were  held  together  at  the  back  by  a  clasp,  pack  them  with  toothbrush,  pajamas,  and  reading  matter,  and  throw  the  patient  luggage  at  an  assistant  stage  manager  dressed  asa  railway  porter.  The  boy  went  without  a  name  until  he  was  six.  His  father  dismissed  the  notion  that  it  was  any  necessity  and  called  for  his  sonby  clearing  his  throat,  like  Henry  Irving  demanding  a  prompt.  His  mother  felt  wretched  about  the  matter  and  often  suggested  Roland.  She  liked  this  name  because  it  was  ro-  mantic  and  well-bred,  which  were  pre-  cisely  Willie  Moe's  objections  to  it.  Her  alternative  was  Percy;  Willie  said  it  was  wet,  and  she  said  it  was  &quot;Henry  IV.&quot;  When  she  moaned  and  said,  well,  what  did  he  suggest  instead,  Willie  would  affably  juggle  the  child  and  two  oranges,  and  reply  with  the  obvious  oath.  And  his  wife  would  flinch  at  the  coarse  life  that  harp  playing  had  brought  her  to,  and  go  off  her  kipper,  and  mash  up  the  remains  with  some  potatoes  for  the  boy's  breakfast  next  " b"B  morning.  If  her  son  hadn't  got  a  name,  at  least  she  was  going  to  see  that  he  had  a  proper  lining  to  his  stomach.  He  went  to  bed  on  porridge,  got  up  on  potatoes,  and  did  his  twice-nightly  work  on  scones,  baps,  cottage  loaves,  crumpets,  and  Yorkshire  parkin.  The  boy  adored  his  father  exclusively;  his  mother's  re-  course  was  starch,  and  his  bulk  there-  fore  waxed  and  waxed.  The  process  didn't  perturb  him  forthe  simple  rea-  son  that  it  didn't  repel  Willie.  The  jibes  of  the  kids  at  his  scattered  schools,  which  he  attended  sometimes  for  a  token  day  or  two  to  throw  a  sop  to  the  government,  struck  him  as  neither  here  nor  there.  What  he  watched  for  anxiously  was  any  sign  that  his  father  found  fatness  unprofessional.  But  on  the  contrary  Willie  made  it  seem  a  prop  of  the  work,  like  ripe  thighs  in  a  chorus  girl  or  the  swivel  eye  of  Ben  Turpin.  Nor  was  it  a  disadvantage  technica'ly.  The  child  was  agile  enough  to  seem  filled  with  helium,  as  if  he  had  mass  without  weight.  He  was  named  on  his  seventh  birth-  day.  His  mother  had  hopelessly  sug-  gested  Cyril.  Willie  Moe  snorted  and  picked  un  the  boy  by  the  leg  and  started  to  whirl  him  as  if  winding  him  up,  which  was  part  of  a  new  routine  called  &quot;The  Living  Propeller.&quot;  'Then  he  dropped  the  weight  with  a  glow  on  his  face  and  said,  &quot;I've  got  it.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  his  wife  asked.  &quot;Arthur,&quot;  he  said,  pronouncing  it  &quot;Arfer&quot;  because  he  was  a  Cockney  of  the  old  generation.  &quot;Arfer  Moe.  'Alf  a  mo.  We  can  work  it  into  the  act.&quot;  His  wife  felt  unspeakably  lowered  and  lit  the  gas  for  the  baked  beans.  Everything  was  grist.  The  child's  own  feelings  were  split  between  mortification  at  a  christening  that  doomed  him  to  live  out  for  good  a  pun  that  he  could  already  see  to  be  gruesome  and  pride  that  his  father  had  cared  for  him  enough  to  embed  him  into  his  act  by  the  very  roots  of  his  name.  The  ambiguity  lasted  long  after  Willie  died.  So  did  Arthur's  torn  atti-  tude  to  his  weight.  He  could  never  entirely  regret  it,  because  it  reminded  him  of  working  with  Willie,  and  the  passing  resolves  he  made  as  a  grownup  to  lose  some  of  it  always  contained  a  tang  of  unease  about  betraying  his  pro-  fessional  qualifications  in  the  eyes  of  a  man  who  would  have  belted  him  for  such  a  thing.  FTER  Willie's  death  Queenie  packed  in  the  theatre.  She  gave  harp  lessons  and  sent  her  son  firmly  to  school.  It  was  wartime  and  the  boys  called  him  Barrage  Balloon.  The  normal  childhood  that  other  people  wished  on  him  struck  him  as  mostly  plaguing  and  tawdry;  his  own  lost  norm,  a  life  spent  in  the  company  of  ribald  sopranos  and  tap-dancers  and  hard-pressed  comedians  in  fear  of  the  sack,  seemed  to  have  more  decency  and  purpose.  When  Fred  Stokes  arrived  at  the  school,  Arthur  had  spent  a  year  in  hell.  But  as  soon  as  their  friendship  was  struck  the  memory  faded  and  the  bad  time  seemed  no  worse  than  some  null  interlude  between  two  boon  com-  panions.  To  be  with  Fred  was  as  natu-  rally  convivial  as  to  be  with  Willie.  At  the  age  of  nine  Fred  was  already  very  much  like  the  man  he  was  going  to  be  at  thirty-five  or  forty.  He  was  tacit,  bold,  and  weedy,  with  a  miraculous  sense  of  humor  at  work  behind  the  face  of  a  tomahawk.  He  could  make  his  friend  laugh  convulsively  enough  to  fall  off  schoolroom  chairs,  and  once  even  out  of  a  hammock.  Arthur  would  lie  on  the  floor  heaving,  dead  silent  apart  from  a  rusty  creak  at  the  mo-  ments  when  he  managed  to  catch  a  breath.  Within  himself  he  would  have  a  sensation  of  liquefying  with  giggles  and  of  becoming  extremely  thin,  like  a  puddle.  The  two  fitted  together  even  in  the  way  the  day  took  them.  Fred  woke  up  lugubriously,  and  the  spectacle  of  Ar-  thur's  capacious  morning  optimism  lift-  ed  his  spirits  After  the  last  show,  or  earlier  if  they  weren't  working,  Arthur  would  often  fall  prey  to  the  bite  of  melancholy,  with  such  sharp  dread  of  all  endings  that  he  would  greatly  fear  going  to  sleep,  as  if  nothing  would  be  left  to  him  unless  he  kept  watch  on  it.  He  hated  other  people's  leaving  him  for  bed,  and  when  he  saw  a  hard  mood  ahead  he  often  took  a  sleeping  pill  at  supper  to  stop  himself  from  being  clamorous,  though  at  the  same  time  he  found  his  terror  about  the  end  of  a  day     daft  in  a  creature  who  was  surely  in-  tended  by  build  to  signify  immortal  fun.  While  they  were  walking  back  from  the  Huddersfield  discotheque,  it  sud-  denly  dawned  on  Fred  and  Arthur  thatthey  had  eaten  three  main  meals  that  day  instead  of  two.  The  usual  sausages  and  spuds  had  been  brought  to  them  between  the  shows.  &quot;We  had  lunch.  That's  what  put  us  out,&quot;  Arthur  said.  A  producer  had  fed  them  silly  in  an  effort  to  woo  them  to  do  a  film.  Arthur  had  eaten  large  help-  ings  of  scampi  and  steak-and-kidney  pudding,  refrained  from  the  damson  pie  as  a  gesture,  and  taken  his  mind  off  the  others'  plates  by  saying  that  they  would  do  the  film  if  he  and  Fred  were  allowed  to  write  it,  direct  it,  find  the  props,  and  put  together  the  sound  track.  He  also  said  that  he  would  want  to  do  his  own  stunt  work  in  an  escape  sequence.  The  appalled  producer  took  refuge  in  the  unions  and  his  insurance  company,  and  Fred  and  Arthur  com-  posed  their  faces  into  the  necessary  combination  of  artistic  bloody-minded-  ness  and  guestly  sympathy  to  scotch  the  project  without  actually  seeming  to  throw  their  good  lunch  back  into  the  producer's  face.  Neither  of  them  had  liked  him  at  all.  &quot;I've  never  had  a  good  experience  of  a  boss  with  a  short  upper  lip,&quot;  said  Fred.  &quot;The  scampt  was  O.K.,&quot;  Arthur  said,  bumping  a  penny  along  the  rail-  ings  in  groups  of  four  and  muttering  &quot;Breakfast,  lunch,  dinner,  supper.  ...  Breakfast,  lunch,  dinner,  supper.  No  more  than  the  Tudors  had,  I  bet.&quot;  &quot;You  should  have  had  the  damson  pie,&quot;  Fred  said.  &quot;No,  I  shouldn't.  I'm  blowing  up  again.&quot;  Nearer  to  their  hotel,  Fred  did  an  improvisation  about  the  homelife  of  an  air  hostess  who  was  taken  over  in  bed  by  her  working  phrases  and  asked  her  husband  if  he  would  care  to  recline  and  have  a  beverage.  Arthur  leaned  against  a  lamppost  and  felt  thinned.  The  mirror  in  their  tatty  hotel  suite  exposed  that  delusion.  &quot;My  face  looks  as  if  it's  going  to  drop  off  a  fruit  tree,&quot;  he  said  at  himself.  &quot;It's  likea  medlar.  Purple,.  It  seems  to  be  running.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  light,&quot;  Fred  said.  The  telephone  rang.  Arthur  left  Fred  to  it  and  lay  on  his  back  in  his  own  bedroom,  reading  a  book  about  ballistics.  He  felt  himself  to  be  so  un-  educated  that  it  seemed  hopeless  even  to  try  to  catch  up  with  the  ordinary  things  that  people  knew.  &quot;Daisy  said  to  give  you  her  love,&quot;  " b" Fred  said,  coming  into  the  room  half  an  hour  later.  Daisy  was  Fred's  bird,  a  freckled  teen-ager  with  red  tabby  hair  whom  Arthur  had  entrusted  with  a  slice  of  his  savings  so  that  she  could  open  a  boutique.  He  often  caught  him-  self  liking  her  better  than  his  own  girl  friend.  Perhaps  this  was  because  she  belonged  to  Fred,  which  meant  that  there  was  no  call  to-  Oh,  all  that,  he  thought,  shutting  up  in  his  own  head.  He  had  a  striking  decorum  even  in  his  thoughts.  Fred  sat  on  the  end  of  the  bed  with  his  elbows  on  his  knees  and  his  hands  hanging  down  with  their  knuckles  back  to  back,  like  a  tired  football  player  in  a  dressing  room.  He  was  looking  at  a  beautiful  textbook  about  race  horses  that  Arthur  had  laid  out  on  the  floor.  &quot;She  says  the  shop's  raking  it  in,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She's  going  to  pay  you  back  the  loan  at  the  end  ofthe  week.&quot;  &quot;No  hurry.&quot;  &quot;You  like  making  people's  fortunes  for  them,  don't  you?&quot;  Fred  said.  Arthur  immediately  started  to  tell  " b"34  a  story  about  a  time  in  music  hall  when  he  had  set  out  to  behave  less  admirably  and  had  cost  a  theatre  manager  a  packet.  After  a  couple  of  sentences  he  went  into  the  present  tense,  which  was  a  habit  he  had  in  speaking  of  the  past,  as  if  it  were  the  plot  of  some  play  he  was  about  to  do.  &quot;So  even  the  performing  seals  are  disgusted  with  his  cheeseparing  by  now,  and  that  night  the  lyric  soprano  breaks  one  ofthe  hoops  of  her  crinoline  in  the  middle  of  her  best  love  song  be-  cause  he  wouldn't  run  to  proper  whalebone,  and  Itake  myself  aside  and  say  to  myself...&quot;  This  was  another  characteristic  that  he  had:  he  often  talked  about  himself  as  if  he  had  cus-  tody  of  someone  who  needed  a  lot  of  upbringing.  \xc2\xabTell  that  story  to  Daisy  sometime,&quot;  Fred  said  at  the  end  of  it.  &quot;You  two  should  get  married,&quot;  said  Arthur,  scaring  himself.  His  thoughts  teetered  nastily,  and  he  wondered  if  he  had  uttered  the  possibility  in  order  to  ward  it  off.  &quot;Why  don't  you  marry  Peg?&quot;  Fred  rinsed  the  old  tea  out  of  a  cup  and  poured  some  Scotch  and  tap  water  into  It.  &quot;It  mightn't  suit  the  work.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(\xe2\x80\x9cThat?),  &quot;We'd  be  three,  and  all  that.&quot;  But  the  same  thing  was  true  of  Fred's  marrying  Daisy.  &quot;It  would  be  different   if  it  was  you  and  Daisy.  I  mean,  I  like  her.&quot;  &quot;I  like  Peg.&quot;  &quot;Anyway,  I'm  too  fat  to  get  mar-  ried.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  so  sorry  for  yourself.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  sorry.  I'm  just  fat.&quot;  &quot;What  about  King  Farouk?  never  stopped  getting  married.&quot;  They  hadn't  spoken  likethis  before.  Arthur  tightened.  Constraint  stung  his  skin  like  a  wave  ofhornets.  The  con-  versation  was  alien  and  impossible.  At  the  same  time  he  had  the  clearest  image  in  his  mind  of  the  three  of  them:  Fred,  Daisy,  and  himself,  and  it  was  a  spectacle  of  nothing  but  pleasure.  He  was  hanging  his  head  over  the  edge  of  the  bed  and  wondering  what  to  do  next  when  a  spring  burst  in  the  mat-  tress.  &quot;I  still  think  you  should  try  marry-  ing  Peg,&quot;  Fred  said,  starting  for  the  door  and  giving  Arthur  as  sharp  a  seizure  as  he  had  ever  had  of  longing  and  hatred  for  an  ally  who  was  desert-  ing  him  to  go  to  sleep.  &quot;You  could  always  split  up,&quot;  said  his  friend.  An-  other  ending.  A  second  swarm  of  enemies  attacked  Arthur's  skin  and  he  swore  at  them  blue  murder.  &quot;I've  got  a  new  idea  for  the  fall,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  keep  the  arms  still  and  move  off  from  your  downstage  shoulder.  Your  weight's  on  your  back  foot,  same  as  before,  but  now  you  can  brace  it  He  JUNE  15,  19  6  8  better  against  the  step.&quot;  Peg  was  all  right,  but  to  marry  her  seemed  a  deal  of  foreign  new  trouble  to  face  for  the  sake  of  off-loading  the  known  old  pain  of  loneliness  before  sleep.  He  remembered  some  story  about  a  primitive  farmer  who  discovered  roast  pork  when  his  house  and  his  pig  barn  burned  down  and  then  imagined  that  he  had  to  set  fire  to  the  place  again  every  time  he  fancieda  bit  of  crack-  ling.  &quot;Hang  on  to  the  house,&quot;  said  Arthur,  taking  himself  aside.  &quot;Hang  on  to  the  house.&quot;  He  lay  on  his  elbow  and  hip  along  the  top  of  a  bureau,  looking  more  like  a  Turkish  sultan  in  a  harem  than  he  felt.  Then  he  flung  himself  neatly  across  to  the  bed,  thinking  agreeably  of  life  with  Fred  and  Daisy  as  he  went,  and  another  spring  broke.  Man-  kind  (me),  he  thought,  mashing  up  the  rest  of  the  mattress  because  he  wasn't  going  to  spend  the  night  braced  fora  lot  of  bedsprings  to  bust  in  their  own  time,  is  idyllic  in  his  intentions,  tragic  in  his  fate,  and  farcical  in  his  functions.  No:  ludicrous,  he  thought  next  morning,  when  the  first  thing  in  his  waking  head  was  the  image  of  his  sea-  lion  self  with  a  wife.  FRED  and  Daisy  got  married  later  that  year.  Arthur  was  their  best  man  and  there  were  jolly  pictures  of  the  wedding  in  the  papers.  He  took  them  out  on  a  spree  the  night  before,  just  the  three  of  them.  &quot;It's  a  stag  night,  only  with  a  girl,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  don't  want  a  lot  of  people,  do  you?&quot;  Daisy  asked  Fred  privately  whether  they  shouldn't  get  him  to  invite  Peg.  Fred  had  already  thought  of  it  and  shook  his  head.  At  the  Savoy  Grill,  Arthur  told  Daisy  that  they  were  going  to  drink  Dom  P\xc3\xa9rignon.  &quot;We've  gone  off  beer  since  you  decided  to  get  spliced,&quot;  he  said,  looking  at  Fred.  &quot;Fred  hasn't.  We  always  drink  beer,&quot;  said  Daisy,  collaring  the  &quot;we.&quot;  Then  she  regretted  it,  and  touched  Arthur's  arm  and  laughed.  &quot;I  don't  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  know  anything  about  wine.  Is  Dom  P\xc3\xa9rignon  good?&quot;  &quot;Also  very  pricey,&quot;  said  Fred.  &quot;'That's  what  money's  for,&quot;  Arthur  said.  Fred  said,  &quot;'The  only  other  time  he  ever  ordered  it  was  the  night  you  rang  us  up  in  Leeds  to  say  you'd  got  the  house  and  we  could  move  in  by  the  week  we  were  spliced.&quot;  Then  Arthur  took  them  to  a  night  club  called  The  Scotch,  and  made  them  dance,  and  thought  they  looked  good  together.  &quot;Half  the  room  is  wearing  clothes  they've  bought  from  your  posh  shop,&quot;  he  said  to  Daisy.  &quot;Best  investment  I  ever  made  was  in  that  place.  In  fact,  the  only  one  I  ever  made.&quot;  &quot;Haven't  you  got  any  stocks  and  shares,  then?&quot;  &quot;He  hardly  even  trusts  the  bank,&quot;  Fred  said.  &quot;I  know  what  he  He'd  much  sooner  keep  it  in  an  old  pair  of  tights.&quot;  &quot;What  you  put  into  the  business,&quot;  Daisy  said,  &quot;you  should  have  treated  it  as  a  loan  and  let  me  pay  you  back  the  capital.  I  always  thought  of  it  as  a  loan.  Two  thou-  sand  quid  is  a  lot  of  loot.  You  might  need  it.  Or  I  might  go  bankrupt.&quot;  &quot;I  like  getting  dividends,&quot;  said  Arthur.  &quot;The  other  day  I  got  twenty-two  pounds  five  and  six  from  your  account-  ants.  It  seems  like  real  mon-  ey,  your  dividends.  Like  getting  a  wage  packet  again,.  instead  of  voting  myself  a  salary  as  my  own  director  or  whatever  it  is  they  make  me  do.&quot;  He  saw  them  off  on  hon-  eymoon  and  didn't  know  what  to  do  with  the  weeks  they  were  going  to  be  away,  until  he  thought  of  taking  a  total-immersion  course  in  Italian.  Daisy  had  once  said  that  the  three  of  them  might  spend  a  holiday  together  next  year  in  San  Gimignano.  He  worked  at  the  course  twelve  hours  a  day  and  found  it  exhausting  but  staggeringly  easy.  Once  he  was  over  the  edge  of  extreme  fatigue  his  brain  drank  up  the  language  by  the  pint.  He  thought  of  startling  Fred  and  Daisy  with  a  flood  of  Italian  when  he  met  them  off  the  boat  train  at  Victoria  Station,  but  at  the  sight  of  them  his  plans  means.  fled  for  excitement.  Intruding  on  a  newly  married  couple  sounded  a  text-  book  mistake  when  he  surveyed  it,  but  plainly  both  of  them  were  glad  he  was  there;  he  could  see  it  in  their  faces  and  ran  up  the  platform  with  joy,  not  shy  at  all  about  the  reflection  of  his  hur-  tling  bulk  in  the  glass  of  a  news-agent's  stall.  It  was  a  couple  of  months  before  he  felt  in  Daisy's  way.  He  tried  to  find  himself  a  girl  to  take  his  mind  off  it:  some  new  girl,  because  Peg  had  gone  wrong.  He  invented  engagements  when  he  had  nothing  to  do,  and  or-  dered  La  Stampa  to  keep  up  his  Italian  as  a  surprise  for  Fred  when  the  present  stage  was  over.  Surely  it  was  too  predictable  that  Daisy  was  going  to  want  to  elbow  him  out;  the  feelings  that  existed  between  the  three  of  them  35  were  substantial  enough  to  forbid  any-  thing  so  trite.  He  started  keeping  Fred  and  himself  to  timetables,  so  that  she  knew  where  she  was,  and  cut  out  eat-  ing  with  Fred  after  the  show  or  seeing  him  in  the  daytime  at  weekends.  Working  together  was  more  enviable  than  ever,  and  professionally  they  seemed  infallible.  By  good  luck,  they  were  in  the  middle  of  a  long  stint  in  [REDACTED],.  The  next  provincial  tour  was  months  ahead,  and  by  then  Fred  would  have  seen  Daisy  through  whatever  was  bothering  her.  Arthur  liked  her  very  much,  and  when  he  heard  from  Fred  that  she  was  going  into  hospital  over-  night  to  have  a  minor  operation  he  packed  her  room  with  flowers  and  clownish  notes.  Fred  was  jumpy  while  they  were  working  together  the  next  morning,  so  Arthur  opened  a  bottle" b"36  of  Bollinger  in  their  businesslike  new  office  and  then  took  him  out  to  lunch.  &quot;What's  she  in  there  for?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Children,&quot;  said  Fred.  Arthur  changed  the  champagne  to  Dom  P\xc3\xa9rignon.  They  had  two  bot-  tles.  He  looked  at  his  watch.  &quot;Is  it  over  yet?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;When  were  they  doing  it,  then?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  know?&quot;  &quot;She  didn't  want  me  to  think  about  it  too  much.  She  just  went  in  last  night  and  said  she'd  be  back  today  as  soon  as  she  could.  She  wouldn't  let  me  take  her.&quot;  &quot;I  understand  that,&quot;  Arthur  said.  &quot;She  knew  you'd  hate  the  lousy  place.  Couldn't  she  have  had  it  done  at  home?&quot;  &quot;She  doesn't  mind  hospitals  like  you  do.&quot;  They  had  a  brandy,  and  then  an-  other.  Arthur  saw  Fred  looking  at  his  watch.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  go?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  much  want  to  be  at  home  on  my  own.  She  won't  be  back  for  ages.&quot;  &quot;Let's  have  a  Calvados.&quot;  They  forgot  the  hospital  and  in-  vented  a  new  sketch.  The  restaurant  closed  in  the  end,  so  Arthur  took  Fred  to  Fortnum's  and  they  floated  through  the  food  department  arm  in  arm.  They  ordered  chicken  breasts  in  jelly  and  invalid  grapes  for  Daisy,  and  grouse  in  aspic  to  be  sent  when  she  was  better.  Then  they  went  down  the  stairs  to  the  wine  counter  and  Arthur  bought  Fred  some  port-a  lot  of  port,  what  the  noble-nosed  assistant  called  a  pipe  of  port.  Arthur  told  the  lordly  one  that  it  was  to  be  sent  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stokes,  but  Fred  knew  whom  it  was  tacitly  meant  for,  because  he  had  read  in  newspaper  gossip  columns  about  dukes  laying  down  pipes  of  port  when  heirs  were  born.  &quot;Why  do  you  hate  hospitals  so  much?&quot;  Fred  said  when  they  had  dropped  into  Jacksons  of  Piccadilly  to  buy  Daisy  some  out-of-season  straw-  berries  that  they  hadn't  thought  of  in  Fortnum's.  &quot;Dunno,&quot;  Arthur  said.  Fred  waited  and  looked  at  him,  knowing  that  only  forbearance  might  call  it  out.  &quot;Heart,&quot;  Arthur  said  loudly.  The  morning-coated  manager  had  recog-  nized  them  and  was  being  proprietary  with  them  in  frontof  a  dowager  cus-  tomer.  Taking  the  word-&quot;heart&quot;  or  &quot;art'&quot;'?-for  a  signal  of  entertainment,  he  brought  his  dowager  nearer.  Fred,  drunk  though  he  was,  saw  what  was  happening  and  pushed  Ar-  thur  toward  the  Stiltons.  &quot;The  old  bag's  got  her  ear  trumpet  out,&quot;  he  said  too  clearly.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  heart?  All  right,  aren't  you?&quot;  &quot;Youknow  how  it  is,&quot;  Arthur  said.  Fred  stumbled  and  steadied  himself  by  putting  his  hand  on  a  York  ham.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  The  dowager  looked  on  and  smiled  and  thought  courteously  about  the  people.  Fred  was  suddenly  felled  with  booze.  &quot;You're  all  right,  though?&quot;  he  said  at  last,  holding  on  to  a  Gorgonzola.  &quot;I  always  think  the  old  thing's  conk-  ing  out,  you  see.  They  keep  telling  me  it  isn't,  but  it's  all  bluff,  isn't  it?  Doc-  tors.  Look  at  the  common  cold.  They  don't  even  know  about  that.  I  mean,     WauprRoP  obviously  I've  got  it  coming.  A  man  of  my  weight.&quot;  He  focussed  on  a  birthday  cake  that  interested  him.  &quot;I  once  saw  a  film  about  a  girl  in  love  with  a  man  who  had  a  dickey  heart,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  he  was  a  composer.  Thin,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Anton  Walbrook.&quot;  &quot;Can't  remember  who  the  girl  was.  I  wish  it  had  been  Carole  Lombard.  ..  .  I'd  like  to  have  married  Carole  Lombard.  Do  you  remember  what  we  were  doing  when  she  was  killed?&quot;  &quot;Bleeding  French  dictation.&quot;  &quot;No  we  wasn't,  it  was  bleeding  bas-  ketwork.  They  was  making  us  make  baskets,  for  the  war  effort.  Carole  Lombard  was  a  nice  girl.  She  had  the  nicest  forehead  I  ever  saw.&quot;  Arthur  thought  of  her  dead,  and  reacted  to  a  reflection  of  his  own  mortal  hulk  with  more  sympathy  toward  it  than  usual.  &quot;Poor  child.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  child?  She  wasn't  any  younger  when  shedied  than  we  are  now.&quot;  &quot;But  she  feels  younger,  because  we've  goneon  living  longer,&quot;  said  Arthur.  He  glimpsed  a  fallacy,  said  " b"&quot;Longer  to  ws,  I  mean&quot;  with  a  vague  interest  in  nailing  it,  and  then  thought  the  hell  with  it  and  bought  some  very  expensive  soap.  So  after  that  they  stag-  gered  happily  to  Hamley's  in  search  of  mechanical  toys  for  themselves,  and  passed  a  record  shop  on  the  way  that  reminded  Arthur  of  something.  &quot;Daft  of  me  not  to  be  able  to  remember  who  the  girl  [REDACTED];  he  said,  &quot;but  I  tell  you  what  I  do  re-  member.  They  played  the  Grieg  Concerto  every  time  the  composer  was  going  to  havean  attack.&quot;  He  hummed  and  sounded  quiteat  ease,  so  Fred  asked  if  he  would  like  the  record.  &quot;Thanks  very  much,&quot;  Arthur  said  furiously.  &quot;I  can  never  hear  the  damned  thing  without  wanting  a  cardiogram.&quot;  When  they  got  back  to  Fred's  house,  it  was  eight  o'clock.  They  had  had  tea  at  the  Ritz  and  drinks  at  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  Royal,  and  then  more  drinks  at  Lyons!  Corner  House  in  Coventry  Street  because  they  were  fed  up  with  swish  places  and  Lyons'  seemed  more  like  home.  They  were  more  than  fairly  high,  merry  as  grigs,  and  prepared  to  go  on  all  night.  Daisy  had  been  back  for  a  long  time;  she  looked  white  and  pinched.  &quot;Where  have  you  been?&quot;  she  said,  crying.  &quot;I  rang  everyone.  I  was  out  of  my  mind  with  worry.&quot;  &quot;Shopping,&quot;  said  Fred.  &quot;He  didn't  think  you'd  be  back  for  ages,&quot;  Arthur  said  protectively.  &quot;You're  drunk,&quot;  she  said  to  Fred,  and  turned  on  Ar-  thur.  &quot;You've  made  Fred  drunk.  How  could  you?  When  I  was  in  hospital.&quot;  She  cried  some  more.  &quot;I  came  out  faster  than  any-  one's  ever  left  before.  As  soon  as  I  could  walk  straight,  I  got  out.  They  said  I  had  to  lie  down  for  two  hours  because  I  was  going  to  be  groggy,  but  I  thought  Fred  would  be  worried.  I  had  to  get  back.&quot;  &quot;You  shouldn't  have  done  that,&quot;  Fred  said.     &quot;He's  only  drunk  because  he  was  worried,&quot;  Arthur  said.  &quot;People  should  do  what  doctors  say.&quot;  Fred's  voice  was  acid.  &quot;After  operations.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  an  operation.  How  can  you  call  it  an  operation?  It  was  for  a  baby.&quot; &quot;You're  being  a  soppy  date,&quot;  Arthur  said.  &quot;Funny,  you're  not  usually.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  it's  the  anesthetic,&quot;  Fred  said.  &quot;Anesthetics  can  upset  people  for  hours,&quot;  Arthur  said.  Daisy  screamed  at  them.  &quot;Stop  ganging  up.  Even  when  I've  been  in  " b"38  hospital,  for  this,  the  two  of  you  gang  up.&quot;  The  humiliation  and  jealousy  that  had  surfaced  in  her  didn't  abate  in  the  weeks  ahead,  and  the  prospect  of  the  friends'  provincial  tour  together  made  her  behave  like  a  vixen.  She  broke  up  the  partnership  with  exhaustive  cun-  ning,  prizing  Arthur  away  with  weap-  ons  of  sexual  mortification  that  she  knew  he  would  never  describe  to  a  living  soul,  least  of  all  to  Fred,  because  she  was  Fred's  loved  wife.  She  made  Fred  see  himself  hereonly  as  she  de-  scribed  him-as  a  manwho  was  de-  liberately  making  his  now  pregnant  wife  unhappy.  All  the  same,  he  insisted  on  doing  a  final  tour.  He  did  it  because  he  wanted  to,  because  he  wasn't  going  to  be  her  victim,  and  because  he  cared  very  much  for  Arthur.  The  time  to-     gether  wasn't  at  all  the  funeral  wake  it  might  have  been.  On  the  contrary,  it  was  brilliant  and  buoyant:  two  months  of  boon  nights.  They  had  ac-  tors'  temperaments,  and  they  forgot  [REDACTED]  because  it  wasn't  there.  Fu-  ture  separation  didn't  exist,  except  when  the  long  arm  of  the  telephone  reached  into  the  room.  &quot;It's  only  for  a  time,&quot;  Fred  said  on  the  last  night  of  the  tour.  &quot;We'll  give  it  till  the  baby'sa  year  old,  say.  Or  six  months.  Probably  she'll  be  so  wrapped  up  in  it  she'll  feel  differently.&quot;  DAISY  had  one  baby  and  then  an-  other,  and  Fred  and  Arthur  did  a  television  series  together  directly  after  the  first  child  was  born,  but  a  reserve  had  come  between  them  and  their  com-  panionship  wasn't  quite  the  same.  Ar-    thur  went  back  to  life  alone  in  his  rooms  in  [REDACTED]  Kensington  and  won-  dered  how  to  proceed.  He  dipped  into  books,  but  couldn't  get  his  brain  to  bite.  He  went  to  4974616c79  on  his  own  and  eventually  made  himself  pick  up  a  girl  in  Rome,  mostly  for  the  sake  of  having  someone  to  speak  his  new  Italian  to,  but  she  thought  his  intense  shyness  some  sort  of  perversion  and  kicked  him  out.  Arthur  wandered  the  streets  and  ate  pasta  on  his  own  and  learned  the  intricate  history  of  Christian  heresy  in  an  Italian-language  library.  It  was  plainly  not  a  useful  thing  for  a  comedi-  an  to  do.  But  then  being  a  comedian  was  plainly  not  a  useful  thing  to  do  either.  He  came  back  to  England  and  went  on  drinking  champagne  alone,  and  nerved  himself  to  do  a  TV  series  without  Fred.  The  endeavor  was  pro-  fessionally  abysmal  as  well  as  painful,  and  his  money  started  to  run  out.  Life  seemed  more  exacting  than  God  himself.  Then  the  Aldwych  Theatre  suddenly  asked  him  to  play  Bottom  in  &quot;A  Midsummer  Night's  Dream&quot;  forthe  Royal  Shakespeare  Company.  He  waited  until  it  was  nearly  too  late,  and  then  sethis  alarm  for  the  old  confident  time  of  the  morning  and  rang  up  his  agent  to  tell  him  to  say  yes.  As  soon  as  the  offer  was  accepted,  it  seemed  the  clearest  piece  of  luck.  Arthur  remade  his  day,  for  he  had  let  it  disintegrate  stupidly.  His  new  habit  of  sleeping  on  and  on  to  rid  him-  self  of  as  much  time  as  possible  and  then  ofstaying  up  drink-  ing  alone  until  very  late  only  left  him  with  none  of  his  nat-  ural  good  time  and  hour  upon  hour  of  his  bad.  Sohe  started  getting  up  early  again,  at  five  or  even  four,  and  going  into  heavy  sleep  with  the  waning  light.  The  work  ahead  began  to  make  him  feel  over-rested  and  dangerous,  like  a  fat  lion.  Every  now  and  then  he  would  walk  through  Covent  Garden  fruit  market  toward  the  Ald-  wych  to  make  sure  that  the  theatre  was  still  there.  He  re-  frained  from  ringing  Fred  up  and  stored  Daisy's  dividend  checks  in  a  drawer  without  cashing  them,  although  he  could  have  done  with  the  money.  The  rehearsals  were  as  pleas,  urable  as  they  generally  are.  The  director  was  a  small,  " b" pink-cheeked  man  with  bottle-shaped  shoulders  and  an  expression  of  mislead-  ing  blankness.  He  took  rehearsals  in  an  ancient  overcoat  that  might  have  come  from  Gogol's  dustbin.  It  hung  to  his  mid-calves  and  he  was  devoted  to  it.  Instead  of  talking  from  the  stalls  to  actors  in  front  of  one  another,  he  would  always  shamble  up  onto  the  stage  with  his  peculiar  hedgehog  gait  and  take  them  aside  separately.  He  spoke  very  shrewdly  and  at  alarming  speed,  in  a  low  voice  that  seemed  to  come  from  elsewhere;  though  his  lips  might  be  moving  in  front  of  Arthur,  the  shafts  ofhelp  would  sound  as  if  they  came  from  the  wings  or  the  or-  chestra  pit.  The  director  had  a  knack  of  giving  elegant  voice  to  exactly  the  thought  that  was  currently  in  poorish  shape  at  the  back  of  Arthur's  head,  and  this  was  infuriating,  though  to  feel  resentment  at  having  your  skull  so  stylishly  looted  seemed  small-minded  and  a  blunder  of  taste.  Halfway  through  the  rehearsals  Arthur  started  to  feel  anxious,  and  after  nights  of  floundering  he  concluded  that  he  should  stop  trying  to  put  aside  what  he  knew  from  music  hall.  Next  day,  of  course,  the  director  shuffled  up  onto  the  stage,  stopped  the  rehearsal,  took  Arthur  on  one  side,  and  lifted  the  ass's  mask  to  murmur,  fluttering  the  hairs  on  the  bearded  jawbone,  &quot;You're  cutting  yourself  off  from  your  technique.&quot;  &quot;I  know,&quot;  Arthur  said  impatient,  ly.  &quot;I  thought  that  Shakespeare  ...I  mean,  I  thought  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Bottom  is  a  music-hall  character,&quot;  said  the  director  overhim.  &quot;People  always  make  him  too  pathetic.  Try  playing  him  as  George  Robey.&quot;  &quot;Blast,&quot;  Arthur  said  to  himself.  &quot;'There  goes  what  I  was  thinking  again.&quot;  After  a  traditionally  disastrous  dress  rehearsal  the  director  came  into  Ar-  thur's  dressing  room,  which  he  shared  with  Flute  the  Bellows  Mender,  and  said  cheerily,  &quot;I  tell  you  what,  why  don't  you  go  back  to  the  awful  way  you  used  todo  it?  Then  the  production  will  be  integrated  because  it  will  be  all  bad.&quot;  &quot;I  think  it's  disgusting,  him  talking  like  that,&quot;  Flute  said  afterward  in  a  thin  voice.  &quot;As  if  the  conception  hadn't  got  anything  to  do  with  him.&quot;  He  slammed  down  a  tin  of  cleansing  cream.  Flute  was  a  mirthless  man  who  often  used  words  like  &quot;conception,&quot;  &quot;subtext,&quot;  and  &quot;seminal,&quot;  and  also  &quot;Jarry-esque,&quot;  which  appeared  to  have  something  to  do  with  a  play  called  &quot;Ubu  Roi.&quot;  Four  weeks  of  being  " b"cooped  up  with  Flute  had  taught  Ar-  thur  that  &quot;Ubu  Ro!&quot;  was  the  most  seminal  possible  thing  about  funniness,  and  if  it  was  a  book  he  was  prepared  to  try  getting  it  out  of  the  public  li-  brary  one  day.  Arthur  looked  at  Flute's  cross  face  and  thought  longingly  of  Fred's  horse  sense  at  dress  rehearsals.  With  as  much  robustness  as  he  could  spare,  he  said  that  he  didn't  think  the  director  had  meant  to  be  flippant.  This  added  fuel  to  Flute's  chilly  little  fire,  and  Arthur's  shoulder  was  given  a  painful  thwack  with  a  rolled-up  copy  of  the  Tulane  Drama  Review.  &quot;Comedy  should  be  taken  seriously,&quot;  Flute  said.  Arthur  grunted  a  serviceable  yes  or  no,  perfected  in  combat  with  super-  cilious  wine  waiters  who  had  tried  to  test  his  strength,  or  his  French,  or  both.  Cheek,  he  thought  later,  with  his  usual  time  lag,  pouring  himself  a  glass  of  champagne  from  the  half  bottles  that  he  kept  in  the  fridge.  He  nearly  rang  Fred  up,  buthe  would  be  seeing  him  tomorrow  at  the  first  night.  Then  the  telephone  rang,  and  the  director  said  he  had  been  very  good,  and  did  he  like  pat\xc3\xa9?  Because  his  wife  had  made  dishes  of  it  as  first-night  presents  for  the  cast,  apart  from  Titania,  who  was  on  a  diet  and  would  have  to  be  dealt  with  in  some  other  way.  At  the  idea  of  pate  in  the  offing,  Arthur's  voice  leaped  like  a  salmon.  &quot;Oh,  blow  Titania,&quot;  he  said,  putting  four  fingers  into  his  waistband,  which  was  on  the  loose  side  at  the  moment.  &quot;Give  her  the  pit\xc3\xa9  any-  way  and  let  her  get  on  with  it.  She  can  always  hand  it  on  to  Peaseblossom  or  Mustardseed.  They  both  look  starv-  ing.&quot;  &quot;That's  their  ballet  background,&quot;  said  the  director.  &quot;You  could  give  yourself  a  nasty  cut  on  those  shoulder  blades,&quot;  Arthur  said,  suddenly  remembering  the  whole  girl  subject  after  his  respite  from  it  and  feeling  unusually  breezy.  The  sight  of  Fred  and  Daisy  after  the  first  night  added  to  his  nerve,  and  he  scooped  the  skeletal  Peaseblossom  out  of  a  dressing  room  full  of  tulle  to  take  her  out  to  dinner  with  them.  She  stayed  mute  through  two  rounds  of  drinks  and  potted  shrimps.  &quot;You  did  have  a  crush  of  fans  in  your  dressing  room,&quot;  said  Daisy,  doing  her  best.  &quot;Mashed  up  Mustardseed's  wings,&quot;  Peaseblossom  said.  &quot;What?&quot;  Daisy  asked.  Arthur  inquired  further  and  relayed  " b"   his  findings.  Her  colleague's  fairy  cos-  tume  had  been  badly  injured  byan  ad-  mirer  who  had  sat  on  it.  &quot;What  rotten  luck,&quot;  Daisy  said,  putting  on  the  upper-class  voice  that  she  usedonly  when  she  was  feel-  ing  guarded.  But  what  about?  Not  about  the  sight  of  me  ecting,  thought  Arthur;  surely  not.  He  asked  after  Fred's  new  play  and  she  ran  on  with  unconvincing  enthusiasm  about  a  young  actress  who  was  going  to  be  in  it.  &quot;She's  a  dish,&quot;  said  Fred.  &quot;Only  sixteen.  We'll  all  be  up  for  child  rape.  I  don't  know  whether  she  can  act,  but  she  looks  a  treat.&quot;  &quot;She's  the  bird  with  the  two  Af-  ghans,&quot;  said  Arthur,  who  had  seen  pic-  tures  of  the  dogs  in  the  papers.  &quot;She's  a  fearfully  nice  girl.  Have  you  met  her?&quot;  Daisy  said  graciously  to  Peaseblossom,  who  was  in  contempla-  tion  with  spaghetti.  &quot;You  sound  like  a  royal  going  round  a  factory,&quot;  Fred  said.  He  ladled  some  of  his  stew  onto  Daisy's  plate.  &quot;Go  on,  shut  your  cake  hole  with  that.&quot;  They  laughed  together  with  such  intimacy  that  Arthur  had  to  look  away.  Then  Fred  took  Peaseblossom  off  to  dance  and  Arthur  gave  Daisy  an  envelope  of  the  uncashed  dividend  checks,  saying  that  he  wanted  her  to  plow  them  back  into  the  business.  She  missed  the  quality  of  his  action  altogether,  or  chose  to  pretend  to,  and  said  crisply,  &quot;Oh,  you  can  tear  them  up,  love.  I  had  them  stopped  ages  ago.&quot;  When  Fred  came  back  to  the  table,  the  two  old  friends  suddenly  fused  and  started  to  laugh,  while  Daisy  had  to  wait  upon  them  as  their  natural  audi-  ence.  &quot;This  is  the  way  things  really  are,  isn't  it?&quot;  Arthur  cried  in  his  head.  &quot;It  can't  have  been  lost.  Dear  God,  they'll  pick  their  things  up  in  a  minute  and  leave  me  on  my  tod  with  that  Peaseblossom.  I'm  tired,  it's  not  fair.  What  shall  I  do  with  her  when  she's  had  enough  to  eat?&quot;  He  took  her  back  to  her  flat  in  Putney,  which  was  a  long  way,  and  she  turned  out  to  be  keen  on  cocoa.  Arthur  left  her  to  a  mug  of  it  and  a  Beatles  record.  He  began  to  be  asked  to  act  in  play  after  play.  There  was  something  awry  with  directors'  reasons  for  casting  him  and  something  unnourishing  in  the  West  End  audiences'  response,  but  he  smothered  the  knowledge  of  it.  Intel-  lectual  reviewers  took  him  up  in  left-  wing  papers  because  of  his  music-hall  background  and  appreciated  him  in  a  way  that  made  him  wretched.  They  wrote  as  though  finding  him  funny  " b"p  O  were  something  radical  and  upright,  of  a  kind  with  rallying  good  will  toward  colored  immigrants.  One  director  used  him  in  &quot;Waiting  for  Godot,&quot;and  he  felt  at  home  in  a  straight  play  at  last,  but  unfortunately  a  critic  wrote  four  hundred  words  about  the  Christly  na-  ture  of  the  moment  when  he  took  his  hat  off.  After  Arthur  read  that  para-  lyzing  codswollop,  the  piece  of  business  became  impossible  and  it  was  only  after  Fred  rang  him  up  and  ribbed  him  about  it  that  he  could  manage  to  get  the  thing  off  his  head  again.   IT  was  summer,  though,  and  life  was  working  in  its  careless  way.  Arthur  went  to  the  Kings  Road  one  hot  after-  noon  to  buy  some  sausages  at  Sains-  bury's.  &quot;That's  Arthur  Moe,&quot;  said  a  young  man  on  the  street  outside.  He  looked  like  a  male  model.  &quot;So  it  is,&quot;  said  his  girl  friend.  &quot;Ask  him  for  his  autograph,  then.&quot;  Arthur  was  used  to  people  talking  about  him  in  his  presence  as  if  he  couldn't  hear.  It  made  him  feel  as  if  he  were  a  television  set.  The  man  long-  sufferingly  tore  apart  a  paper  bag  for  him  to  autograph,  shoved  it  into  his  hand,  and  said  furiously,  &quot;Haven't  you  A  even  got  anything  to  write  with?&quot;  Ar-  thur's  affability  began  to  be  tinctured  with  a  faint  new  sarcasm.  He  asked  them  into  Sainsbury's,  borrowed  a  pen-  cil  from  the  sausage  assistant,  and  wrote  his  name  on  the  paper  bag.  &quot;Phony  writing,&quot;  the  man  said  se-  Tea  T]?  ay  fOI'  \xe2\x80\x98  |  verely.  &quot;What?&quot;  said  his  girl,  leaning  over  Space  -Age  his  shoulder  to  look. &quot;I  said  phony,  notfunny.  I  haven't   laughed  at  him  for  years.&quot;  pee  oke  &quot;4  Arthur  bought  two  pints  of  Devon-  shire  cream  as  an  act  of  aggression.  Life  being  what  it  is,  he  thought,  one  dreams  of  revenge.  He  came  out  into  the  sun  and  wondered  what  next.  Defend  myself!  I'm  fed  up  with  my  place.  I'd  like  a  cat.  A  man  must  have  somewhere  to  go.  Then  he  saw  a  wonderfully  pretty  girl  who  had  obviously  been  watching  him  for  a  long  time.  It  was  Sukie,  Sukie  something,  the  nymphet  Fred  was  working  with;  he  knew  her  by   thea\xc3\xa9iguhi\xef\xac\x81je  even  cooler  than  Fred,&quot;  &gt;   she  said,  laughing  at  him  admiringly   and  leaning  her  two  dogs  against  and  glass  stay  bright  and  sparkling  Sales  Offices  and  Representatives  her  as  if  they  s  \xc2\xa2  supporting  a  fine  withouttedious  polishing.  in  Principal  Cities  book.  He  was  glad  she  thought  he  had  been  cool.  He  decided  not  to  (tenn  nce  oona  wih  be  meted  on  reouest  E  sie  (o  ne  neue  deeot  fant  way.  becouse  Corporation,  Department  NY-7512,  1441  Repub\xe2\x80\x98\xef\xac\x81\xe2\x80\x99:  Buuld|ng,qCIeveIand  Dhio  amo)  |in  its  usual  sleepy-fruit  way,  because  " b"to  do  so  might  have  destroyed  the  im-  pression.  &quot;Come  home  an  d  have  a  drink,&quot;  s  he  said.  &quot;You're  not  playing  tonight,  are  you?&quot;  She  imparted  her  k  nowl  edge  of  him  so  agreeably,  and  her  kneecaps  looked  so  trustworthy,  that  the  glanc-  ingly  unkind  afternoon  improved  out  of  all  recognition.  He  had  an  obscure  faith  that  he  was  in  the  presence  of  some  trib-  u  tary  of  Fred's  staunch  temperament.  T  hey  walked  to  her  car:  two  lean  and  amazing  dogs,  one  lean  and  amazing  girl,  and  the  old  bladdery  w  ineskin.  Oh,  well.  Oh,  hell.  She  bought  a  choc-  bar  ice  cream  on  the  way,  and  this  im-  mediately  gave  him  the  illus  ion  of  pro  xy  license  that  he  always  felt  upon  seeing  the  thin  and  f  lawless  elude  the  rules.  Indeed,  he  eve  n  had  a  buccaneering  moment  when  it  seemed  to  him  that  to  have  a  choc-bar  himself  woul  d  do  the  trick  of  making  him  exactly  like  her.  So  he  bought  one.  Her  car  was  a  red  M.G.  with  the  hood  d  own,  parked  closely;  there  was  r  oom  for  her  to  get  in,  but  not  for  him  .  She  real-  ized  this  openly  and  laughed  at  him  in  the  sun,  saying  that  the  Afgha  n  s  co  uld  n'  t  manage  it  either,  and  her  bla-  tant  flirtatiousness  fuelled  him  to  per-  form  one  of  his  music-  h  all  le  aps  over  the  back  o  f  the  car  i  nto  the  bucket  seat.  &quot;  Fred  never  told  me  you  did  that  sort  of  thing.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  usually.  Not  in  private  life.&quot;  &quot;He  said  you  were  s  hy.  Do  it  again.&quot;  She  really  wa  s  a  child.  O.K.:  one  more  when  we  g  et  home  and  that's  all  before  b  edtim  e  ,  he  thought,  facing  the  f  act  that  bedtime  was  probabl  y  all  too  literal-  ly  wha  t  she  ha  d  in  mind.  Well,  in  that  case,  he  told  himself,  there  are  ways  of  quieting  kids  down.  Meaning  no  when  you  sa  y  it,  for  in-  stance,  and  hot-milk  dr  inks.  &quot;Not  here,&quot;  he  said  maturely.  &quot;I'll  d  o  you  one  m  ore  when  we  get  to  your  place.&quot;  Her  chin  was  shaped  like  a  baby's  heel.  She  ga  ve  him  a  Coke  out  of  a  frid  ge  that  held  caviar,  half-  em  pty  tins  of  sar-  dines  and  water  chestnuts,  and  medi-  cine  bottles  for  the  dogs.  There  was  also  a  cold-cream  jar  containing  mari-  juana  jam.  The  drawing  room  was  full  of  rugs  that  looked  upsettingly  as  if  they  had  been  made  from  earlier  Af-       ghans.  She  sat  on  one  of  the  longest-  haired  mats,  draped  the  dogs  around  her,  and  catechized  him  about  Fred  with  an  insistence  that  he  took  for  childishness.  He  tried  asking  her  about  herself,  but  she  had  a  knack  of  averting  his  questions  with  an  apparently  bashful  stammer,  looking  at  him  with  kohl-  lined  eyes  that  rolled  around  like  the  globules  in  a  bricklayer's  balance.  Her  beauty  was  so  startling  it  mysteriously  approached  the  comic.  Arthur  found  the  reasons  for  this  unfathomable,  but  took  it  that  they  had  to  do  with  a  com-  parison  to  his  own  looks.  The  sight  of  her  bare  toes  made  him  feel  slightly  religious.  When  she  wanted  not  to  reply  to  something,  she  would  lift  her  ravishing  upper  lip  over  her  opened  teeth  in  a  way  that  put  him  alarmingly  in  mind  of  ahorse  wanting  to  be  bridled.  He  grew  very  hot  and  thought  that  he  was  probably  looking  runnier  than  ever,  but  felt  it  would  be  courting  horse  trouble  to  take  off  his  jacket.  She  was  wearing  schoolboy  shorts  herself,  and  what  seemed  to  be  an  eleven-year-  old's  prep-school  cricket  blazer.  Her  hair  was  in  a  single  pigtail  tied  with  a  black  bow,  like  one  of  Nelson's  sailors.  Merely  to  connect  herwith  the  Battle  of  Trafalgar  liquefied  him  a  little  further  be-  cause  it  moved  him.  He  assumed  the  pigtail  to  be  her  own,  but  it  wasn't.  When  she  came  back  from  changing,  her  haircut  was  a  boy's,  except  that  it  had  new-  born-looking  curls  at  the  nape  of  her  neck,  which  knocked  him  out  for  a  bit.  He  went  into  her  giant  bathroom  to  take  his  mind  off  things  and  stood  there  awhile  between  her  mirrors,  thinking  not  particular-  ly  of  how  he  looked  himself  but  mostly  of  the  inflections  that  she  had  caught  from  Fred,  and  also  of  how  it  must  feel  to  be  this  negligently  per-  fect  child,  who  had  obviously  never  in  her  life  spent  herself  combatting  a  flaw.  &quot;You  shouldn't  wear  a  switch,  you  know,&quot;  he  said  when  he  came  back.  &quot;Your  own  hair's  nicer.&quot;  &quot;It's  fun,  that's  all.  It's  boring  to  be  the  same  all  the  time.&quot;  &quot;When  you're  as  pretty  as  you  are,  you  should  leave  yourself  alone.&quot;  She  wavered  her  eyes  at  him,  but  he  wasn't  going  to  hand  her  anything  more,  for  she  knew  perfectly  well  she  was  pretty,  Not  that  her  vanity  took  " b" away  from  her;  in  some  eerie  way  that  he  didn't  relish,  her  self-absorption  even  made  her  harder  to  withstand.  He  found  himself  thinking  solemnly  about  her  bone  structure,  going  on  and  on  about  it  in  his  head,  but  put  a  stop  to  that  because  his  thoughts  sounded  like  the  conversation  of  fashion  photogra-  phers.  &quot;Promise  me  not  to  wear  a  switch  again,&quot;  he  said,  after  a  fool's  pause.  &quot;Why?  That's  the  whole  point  of  living  now.  We  can  change  ourselves.  We  can  be  anyone  we  want.&quot;  She  read  too  much  newsprint,  perhaps.  &quot;I've  got  dozens  of  wigs.  I  suppose  you  think  that's  frivolous  of  me.  But  I  get  so  bored  with  myself.  Don't  you?  What  I  mean  is,  you  can  choose  now  in  the  mornings  whether  you're  going  to  be  Marie  Antoinette  or  a  plumber's  mate.  As  far  as  your  hair's  concerned,  I  mean.  Or  you  can  learn  something.  Like,  er,  Spanish.  Anything.  Short-  hand.  You  can  decide  to  have  kids  or  not.  You  can  be  fat  or  thin.  You  just  have  to  know  what  you  want.  Of  course,  it  doesn't  matter  for  a  man  about  being  fat.  Women  don't  mind  that  sort  of  thing  in  men.  I'd  kill  my-  self  if  I  was  fat.&quot;  She  poured  a  glass  of  Perrier  water  for  herself  and  asked  if  he  would  like  to  smoke  some  pot.  &quot;If  I  was  fat  I  simply  couldn't  stand  it.&quot;  He  watched  her  as  she  moved  around  the  room.  She  was  smoking  her  joint  with  quick  snatches  of  breath,  like  a  swimmer  doing  the  crawl.  He  forgot  for  a  moment  that  it  was  pot  and  thought  of  nicotine,  and  then  of  cancer,  cells  in  delirium,  the  inroads  that  living  would  make  one  day  even  on  this  varnished  little  icon  of  the  ex-  empt:  the  flab  of  tiredness,  children,  overwork,  sitting  up  too  late  at  night  listening  to  people,  indulging  buoyant  childish  appetites  as  a  device  to  sustain  good  nature  against  foreshadows  of  the  senile  self.  &quot;I  hate  Daisy,  don't  you?&quot;  said  the  little  beauty,  sitting  cataclysmically  on  _  [his  knee,  with  a  baby  sparkle  hard  to  tell  from  old-age  mischief.  He  put  his  huge  right  hand  on  her  polished  gold  kneecaps,  because  it  sud-  denly  looked  ridiculous  lying  around  on  the  arm  of  a  chair,  and  said,  &quot;No.&quot;  Tell  me  aboutFred.  No.  Tell  me  later,  when  we're  in  bed.  I'll  cook  us  some  shepherd's  pie.  I'm  a  super  cook.  Did  you  know  that?  Fred  told  me  you  used  to  have  shepherd's  pie  three  or  four  times  a  week  when  you  were  in  music  hall.  He  said  you  liked  it  best  the  way  they  did  it  in  Derby.  Fred's  a  smashing  man,  isn't  he?  He's  taught  " b"me  everything.  I  even  feel  I  know  all  about  you.  I  mean,  I  know  about  your  mother  the  harpist,  and  your  father,  and  why  you're  called  Arthur,  and  about  the  way  you  can  fall.  I  wasn't  really  surprised  when  you  jumped  into  the  car  like  that,  you  know.  I  wanted  you  to.&quot;  She  was  a  witch,  then,  be-  cause  he  had  never  before  inhis  life  done  such  a  thing  with  a  girl  in  the  street.  She  must  have  put  the  idea  into  his  head  herself:  pinned  it  onto  the  back  of  his  mind,  like  one  of  her  flaming  hairpieces.  The  room  was  full  of  photographs  of  her.  He  looked  at  them.  There  was  one  of  her  dandling  a  baby,  and  he  took  it  into  the  kitchen  to  her.  &quot;It's  my  godchild,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  adore  babies.  I'm  going  to  have  eight.&quot;  He  looked  at  the  back  of  her  knees,  nearly  fainted  with  the  beauty  of  them,  and  went  into  the  drawing  room  again  to  convalesce,  holding  the  photograph  on  his  big  lap.  What  was  she  doing?  He  couldn't  see  his  way.  He  seemed  to  have  become  her  creature,  though  she  was  the  one  on  a  drug  supposed  to  make  her  passive.  The  cadences  of  Fred  in  her  speech  were  cruelly  de-  luding.  She  struck  him  now  as  perilous  and  avid,  and  he  had  the  sensation  of  going  into  a  skid.  He  looked  again  at  the  photograph,  and  recognized  at  last  that  the  baby  who  looked  famil-  iar  was  Fred's.  No,  Daisy's,  with  the  child  in  the  kitchen  as  her  surrogate  mother.  &quot;How  on  earth  did  you  get  this?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  Daisy's  kid.&quot;  &quot;I  want  Fred  to  see  it.&quot;  She  smiled  gaily,  and  a  freezing  wind  howled  in  his  guts.  &quot;You  need  locking  up.&quot;  &quot;We'd  better  get  on  with  it  if  you're  going  to  be  nasty,  hadn't  we?  What  a  waste  of  my  beautiful  cooking.  Still,  I'm  not  really  hungry.  Are  you?&quot;  She  came  and  kissed  him  like  an  ant-  eater,  and  he  went  out  of  the  door.  &quot;You're  frightened  of  me,  aren't  you?&quot;  she  shrieked  at  him.  &quot;Come  on,  we  could  have  fun.  I  think  you're  nice.  I  think  you're  attractive.&quot;  He  went  down  the  stairs,  and  she  stood  at  the  top  of  them  screaming.  &quot;I  admireyour  work.  Help,  I'm  falling.&quot;  &quot;Hang  on  to  the  doorpost,  then.&quot;  He  hesitated.  She  had  certainly  gone  ashen,  but  it  was  probably  pique.  &quot;Go  to  sleep,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Have  something  to  eat  and  go  to  sleep.  It  was  a  bad  idea,  that's  all.  And  leave  Fred  and  Daisy  alone.&quot;  &quot;T'll  kill  myself.&quot;  As  soon  as  he  got  home,  the  tele-  phone  was  ringing  and  she  told  him  " b"   the  same  thing  many  times.  &quot;I'll  kill  myself.&quot;  &quot;Where  did  you  get  my  number?&quot;  &quot;From  Fred.&quot;  &quot;What've  you  done  to  him?&quot;  &quot;I'll  kill  myself  if  you  don't  come  back.&quot;  &quot;Eat  your  nice  shepherd's  pie  and  lay  off.  I've  got  to  work  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;So  I'll  never  see  you  again.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  I'll  take  you  out  to  lunch  one  day.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  love  me.  Mine's  Flax-  man  9424.  You  grab  what  you  can  get  and  then  you  desert  me.&quot;  &quot;Don't  talk  such  bollocks.  only  just  met.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  bear  being  deserted.  I  won't  have  it.  You're  just  like  Fred.  If  you  don't  come  back  I'll  take  the  whole  bottle.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  you  did  this  to  Fred.&quot;  We've  &quot;I  can't  stand  it-I'm  taking  them-I'm  giving  them  to  the  dogs.  ...&quot;  She  made  her  voice  fade  and  left  the  receiver  knocking  against  a  table  leg.  Arthur  listened  carefully  and  heard  her  tiptoeing  away.  An  hour  later  he  dialled  the  number,  but  it  was  still  en-  gaged.  The  night  seemed  the  longest  he  had  endured.  He  sat  for  many  hours  in  front  of  a  mirror,  moving  his  joints,  detecting  stiffness  in  a  knee,  juggling  with  cakes  of  soap  to  see  if  he  could  still  do  it.  He  was  rehearsing  Sir  Toby  Belch  in  &quot;Twelfth  Night&quot;  and  the  lines  had  fled;  what  he  hung  on  to  was  the  physical  business,  and  when  he  did  some  of  it  to  the  mirror  it  seemed  poor  stuff  for  theold  Living  Boomerang.  &quot;I  am  not  doing  what  I  ought  to  do,&quot;  he  kept  saying  to  himself.  Was  Fred  free  ofthat  girl?  He  tried  to  reach  her  again,  and  told  the  operator  to  put  the  howler  on  the  line  because  the  phone  was  off  the  hook,  but  the  girl  said  re-  provingly  that  it  couldn't  be  done  in  the  middle  of  the  night  in  case  it  woke  people  up.  &quot;It  might  be  an  emergen-  cy,&quot;  Arthur  said,  though  he  didn't  be-  lieve  it.  Then  he  got  out  his  old  square-  toed  athlete's  shoes  and  practiced  falls  onto  the  bed.  His  heart  seemed  to  be  beating  too  hard,  and  he  started  to  test  his  twenty-twenty  eyesight  by  leaping  with  alternate  eyes  closed.  He  thought  theright  one  seemed  weak.  Perhaps  it  was  tiredness.  I  am  not  doing  what  I  ought  to  do.  The  next  day  the  press  was  onto  him.  Sukie  had  been  rushed  to  hospital  after  taking  an  overdose  ofsleeping  tablets,  and  she  had  left  an  incriminat-  &amp;  ling  love  letter  to  him.  It  was  printed  next  Sunday  in  one  of  the  gutter  tab-  loids.  There  were  also  photographs  of  " b"himself,  and  of  her  bedroom  as  the  po-  lice  and  reporters  had  found  it,  with  the  two  Afghans  poisoned  on  the  floor.  Sukie  recovered,  and  there  wereno  charges  to  be  brought,  but  she  was  a  favored  public  childas  well  as  a  minor  and  something  stuck.  After  he  opened  in  &quot;Twelfth  Night,&quot;  Arthur  was  hissed  by  a  crowd  of  women  waiting  for  him  outside  the  stage  door.  It  happened  again,  out  of  the  blue,  a  few  days  later  in  Oxford  Street.  He  thought  of  some-  thing  he  had  read  once  about  Fielding,  who  had  heard  the  watermen  at  Roth-  erhithe  mocking  his  body  when  it  had  grown  ugly  with  the  dropsy.  Fred  understood  Sukie's  vengeful  ruse,  and  most  people  could  have  guessed  it  if  they  had  cared  to,  which  they  didn't.  Often  it  isn't  the  truth  that  punishes  but  what's  believed.  After  a  fortnight,  Fred  saw  whatwas  likely  to  happen  and  went  to  a  lawyer  whom  he  trusted.  &quot;The  girl's  practically  a  nut.  Can't  he  make  a  statement?&quot;  &quot;It'd  do  more  harm  than  good.&quot;  &quot;You  think  it'll  die  down?&quot;  The  lawyer  looked  out  the  window.  }!  &quot;You  know  what  I  really  think?  His  weight  will  damn  him.  He'll  become  a  monster.&quot;  HTHUR  survived.  Defeat  was  too  |i  great  a  compliment  to  pay  to  so-  \xc2\xa9  ciety.  He  merely  changed.  He  started  to  smoke  incessantly,  carrying  around  a  cigarette  box  as  big  as  a  biscuit  tin.  He  lost  so  much  weight  that  he  wore  two  suits,  one  on  top  of  the  other,  be-  cause  he  despised  the  sign  of  toll.  I'm  the  kind  you  can  trample  for  a  time,  But  then  I  quit.  God  hear,  That's  it.  He  woke  up  in  the  middle  of  some  night  with  this  composed  in  his  head.  He  had  practically  no  money  left  in  the  world,  but  he  went  on  drinking  cham-  pagne  on  credit.  After  he  had  been  out  of  work  for  months  his  telephone  rang  and  a  manager  asked  to  see  him.  In  his  office  the  manager  said  that  he  thought  he  might  have  a  part  going,  and  then  looked  at  Arthur  for  a  long  time.  Arthur  looked  back  grimly.  &quot;No,&quot;  the  manager  said.  &quot;It  isn't  for  you.  But  keep  in  touch.&quot;  Arthur  left  without  a  word.  What  had  he  been  expected  to  do?  Go  down  on  his  knees?  Fred  was  killed  in  a  car  crash  at  the  end  of  the  year.  By  that  time  Arthur  had  started  again  as  near  as  possible  to  the  place  where  he  had  begun.  He  played  in  workingmen's  clubs  in  the  North  of  England.  They  didn't  pay   " b" much,  but  they  were  more  like  the  old  music  halls  than  anything  left  in  the  [REDACTED].  With  an  enjoyment  that  came  back  as  soon  as  he  started  to  work,  he  invented  a  solo  routine  that  was  de-  liberately  and  taxingly  physical.  The  audiences  at  the  first  show  of  the  eve-  ning  were  sparse  but  hair-raisingly  alert.  The  second  houses  were  packed,  but  the  people  were  generally  too  drunk  to  pay  much  attention.  The  roaring,  boozing  Saturday  nights  were  always  great.  Daisy  found  him  by  telephone  in  Harrogate  with  the  news  of  Fred's  death  and  asked  him  to  identify  the  body  for  her.  She  seemed  to  be  asking  not  so  much  to  save  herself  as  because  of  some  instinct  for  the  men's  friend-  ship.  Arthur  flew  to  [REDACTED]  and  stayed  in  the  police  morgue  a  long  time  with  the  body  that  he  knew  as  closely  as  his  own,  thinking  of  Fred's  splendid  good  nature,  his  tough-mindedness,  and  his  humor  about  the  absurd  and  even  the  terrible.  Daisy  let  Arthur  pay  for  the  funeral,  although  she  knew  he  had  no  money.  His  choices  were  old-fash-  ioned  and  lavish,  with  a  full  choir  and  more  flowers  than  he  could  possibly  afford.  The  bills  came  on  the  morning  of  the  burial,  and  he  suddenly  drew  them  from  his  pocket  during  the  service,  opening  them  without  knowing  what  he  was  doing.  He  crushed  them  in  his  hand  as  he  passed  the  coffin  and  shouted  at  the  lid,  weeping,  &quot;Even  when  you're  dead  you  cost  me  too  much.&quot; "