 THE  DOUBLE  BOLLIX  (A  PAPER  WRITTEN  AFTER  A  CAREFUL  READING  OF  &quot;THE  DOUBLE  HELIX,&quot;  BY  JAMES  D.  WATSON  )  CERTAINLY  not  everybody  will  share  my  interpretation  of  the  events  and  personalities  involved  in  the  discovery  of  the  basic  formula-  tive  structure  of  VIDA  (verosclerotic  intermolecular  disulphurbic  actone),  without  which  neither  you  nor  I  nor  even  Dr.  Grel  [REDACTED]  could  so  much  as  exist.  I  mean  exist.  And  I  espe-  cially  mean  Dr.  Grel  [REDACTED],  since  there  is  no  one,  or  hardly  anyone,  in  the  entire  scientific  community  (thet  congeries)  for  whom  I  hold  more  re-  spect,  if  not  necessarily  affection.  But  putting  both  respect  and  affection  aside,  something  deep  inside  me,  perhaps  VIDA  itself,  propelled  me  to  cream  [REDACTED]  in  the  matter  of  VIDA's  structure.  All  of  us  at  the  Hereford  Labs  knew  that  [REDACTED]  was  deeply  involved  with  peptones,  but  we  also  knew  that  with  his  immense  knowledge  of  the  verosclerotic  field  he  would  be  edging  his  way  toward  a  solution  of  the  problem  of  VIDA.  The  essential  ques-  tion  was  whether  he  had  hitched  on  to  the  matter  of  the  paper  dolls.  I  was  slothing  about  the  Hereford  on  aBlakeslee  Grant,  ostensibly  pursuing  the  elusive  inner  core  of  anti-zymbiot-  ics,  but  since  I  knew  next  to  nothing  about  zymbiotics,  anti-zymbiotics  com-  pletely  eluded  me,and  I  had  every  rea-  son  to  believe  that  when  the  grant  ran  out  there  would  be  no  further  drinking  from  that  particular  trough.  I  took  ad-  vantage  of  the  beautiful  spring  weather  and  sat  outside  a  good  deal  under  the  trees,  admiring  the  passing  scene-  mostly  delectable  chicks-occasionally  leaving  England  and  running  over  to  the  Continent  for  a  weekend  of  fun  and  games.  The  old  fellow  in  charge  of  the  labs,  Sir  Creighton  Mockridge,  had  put  me  down  as  a  dunce  the  mo-  ment  he  laid  eyes  onme,  and  this  re-  lieved  me  of  any  sense  of  pressure.  I  secretly  envied  him  for  the  work  he  had  done  in  1896  on  salubrious  fen-  tones,  but  I  had  no  notion  of  what  he  had  done  in  the  intervening  years.  Anyway,  I  enjoyed  the  aroma  of  his  pipe  tobacco,  and  the  quirky  patch  in  the  seat  of  his  tweed  trousers.  Mock-    ridge  was  the  solid-daddy  image  at  the  labs,  and  his  children  were  a  mixed  bag.  First  off,  there  was  Burkie-  Lothard  Burkie.  One  morning,  stroll-  ing  along  Veritas  Lane,  I  spied  this  character  hopping  down  the  lane  on  one  foot,  making  small  animal  noises  that  sounded  like  &quot;oop-eep-ah,  coop-  eep-ah.&quot;  Now  and  then,  he  would  vary  the  sequence  and  say  &quot;ah-eep-oop.&quot;  I  carefully  examined  his  features-balus-  trudic  anthropoid  with  overtones  of  ba-  roque  polymorphism  and  with  no  visible  signsof  enzyme  deficiency.  The  entire  performance  was  slightly  infra  dig,  but  I  couldnot  help  admiring  the  determi-  nation  of  the  party  performing  it.  I  was  somewhat  surprised  a  week  or  so  later-  when  I  decided  one  morning  to  go  to  work-that  he  and  I  were  sharing  a  laboratory  at  the  Hereford,  and  that  his  entire  lunch  consisted  of  a  pack-  age  of  processed  yellow  cheese,  which  he  heartily  consumed,  paper  and  all.  Less  eccentric  than  most  of  the  peo-  ple  in  the  verosclerotic  field,  Burkie  disguised  his  brilliance  by  speech  so  slow  and  so  measured  that  students  (he  delivered  occasional  lectures)  fell  sound  asleep  between  syllables,  and  often  woke  up  screaming.  We  hit  it  off  together  immediately,  and  when  I  talked  to  him  about  the  paper  dolls  there  was  a  glint  in  his  left  eye  that  made  me  realize  that  he  instantly  sensed  their  possi-  bilities.  The  right  eye,  curi-  ously,  displayed  no  response.  Old  Mockridge  thought  even  less  of  Burkie  than  he  did  of  me;  in  fact,  he  had  been  known  to  exclaim  to  some  of  the  dons  at  High  Table  that  if  he  heard  another  &quot;oop-eep-  ah&quot;  (his  windows  overlooked  Veritas  Lane)  he  would  re-  tire  to  the  Isle  of  Wight  and  spend  the  rest  of  his  days  re-  reading  the  novels  of  Jane  Austen.  Down  the  hall  from  us,  in  a  lab  housing  a  huge  aspidistra,  labored  Bellinza  (La  Beanie)  Locke,  who  dominated  not  only  the  as-  pidistra  but  her  co-worker  in  the  lab,  Tiny  Giles  Album,  a  creature  famed  for  his  work  on  zelids.  La  Beanie  was  acomplicated  personality,  who  often  remarked  that  the  entire  scientific  community  would  be  immeasurably  im-  proved  if  someone  had  the  sheer  guts  to  set  a  torch  to  the  Hereford.  This  infuri-  ated  Tiny  Giles  Album,  who  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  was  convinced  that  La  Beanie  meant  what  she  said.  I  never  took  her  seriously  enough  (she  was  a  grilotic  type,  broad  of  beam)  to  give  any  thought  to  the  matter.  When-  ever  Burkie  heard  her  incendiary  comments,  he  permitted  himself  an  extended  series  of  &quot;oop-eep-ah'&quot;'s  and  went  punting  for  the  afternoon.  Neither  La  Beanie  nor  Tiny  Giles  Album  knew  anything  about  the  paper  dolls,  nor  would  they  have  placed  any  credence  in  them.  Burkie  and  I  proposed  to  keep  it  that  way.  Aside  from  La  Bean-  ie,  most  of  the  tension  in  the  Hereford  was  generated  by  the  rush  for  the  Persimmon,  that  most  coveted  of  prizes.  Burkie  and  I  desperately  wanted  the  Persimmon,  and  were  honestly  willing  to  share  it.  La  Beanie,  I  felt  certain,  would  do  anything  to  undercut  and  undermine  us.  She  never  passed  me  in  the  broad  main  hall  of  the  Hereford  without  roll-  ing  her  eyes,  smiling  an  arcane  smile,  and  sav-  ing,  &quot;Aha,  Mr.  Can-  dor  himself!&quot;  I  wanted  to  wring  her  strange  little  neck,  but  I  didn't.  I  was  too  worried  about  Dr.  Grel  [REDACTED].  I  didn't  exactly  want  to  wring  Ais  neck,  but  the  thought  crossed  my  mind.  He,  too,  had  his  sights  set  on  the  Persimmon.  One  of  his  daughters,  Adenine,  had  come  over  from  the  States  to  do  research  at  the  Hereford  on  planetubular  oxides,  and  I  thought  to  myself  that  if  I  took  the  dear  girl  out  for  an  evening  and  filled  her  with  beer  and  my  own  special  brand  of  charm,  I  could  get  a  line  on  her  old  man's  progress.  An  evening  was  easily  ar-  ranged-a  bit  too  easily.  I  took  her  to  the  Beowulf,  and  there,  in  the  Tap  Room,  with  fat  candles  dripping  over  the  tablecloth,  she  proceeded  to  undo  me.  I  never  learned  a  single  fact  about  what  dear  old  Dad  was  working  on.  The  beer  went  to  my  head  long  be-  fore  it  went  to  hers,  and  her  uncon-  trollable  habit  of  twitching  from  head  to  foot  so  unnerved  me  that  I  was  about  to  babble  something  about  the  paper  dolls  when  the  publican  an-  nounced  closing  time.  It  was  a  nar-  row  escape,  and  when  I  told  Burkie  about  it  in  the  morning  he  said,  &quot;Old  trout,  you  need  a  change,  a  rest.  Get  away  from  the  lab,  clear  your  head.&quot;  Nobody  has  to  say  anything  like  that  twice  to  me.  I  packed  my  duffel  and  headed  for  the  Ubermensch,  where  I  toyed  with  the  notion  of  climbing  the  damn  thing  but  settled  for  rocking  in  arocker  on  the  porch  of  a  nearby  hotel  and  admiring  the  view.  Then  I  flew  over  to  Rome,  and  sashayed  around  a  number  of  parties  being  thrown  by  the  international  rich.  I  admire  the  in-  ternational  rich,  mostly  because  of  their  delightful  little  hot  hors  d'oeuvres.  At   one  such  party,  I  was  frolicking  with  a  contessa  and  counting  the  bubbles  in  my  glass  when  Hans  Hansk,  the  German  byridicist  (who  had  himself  won  the  Persimmon  a  few  years  back),  came  over  unsteadily  and  remarked,  almost  in  passing,  &quot;[REDACTED]  has  or-  dered  six  thousand  paper  dolls  from  [REDACTED],  all  different  sizes,  all  dif-  ferent  shapes.&quot;  &quot;Cze0,  baby,&quot;  I  said  to  the  contessa.  She  slid  to  the  floor.  I  grabbed  the  next  plane  to  [REDACTED],  and  took  the  first  train  down  to  the  Hereford.  It  was  after  midnight  when  I  climbed  the  rope  ladder  (Mockridge  personally  took  home  all  the  keys  to  the  place  at  the  close  of  day)  and  let  myself  in  through  the  window  of  Burkie's  and  my  lab.  To  my  surprise,  Burkie  was  there,  playing  with  some  Thai  marionettes.  &quot;We  haven't  a  " b"26  moment  to  lose,&quot;  I  said.  I  told  him  about  [REDACTED]  and  the  paper  dolls.  &quot;OQop-eep-ah,&quot;  he  said,  and  we  went  to  work.  One  of  those  frenzied  fortnights.  I  didn't  wish  to  lose  any  time  before  our  paper  dolls  arrived  from  [REDACTED]  (we  had  ordered  them  months  be-  fore),  so  I  flew  up  to  Oslo  to  the  Rol-  vaag  Laboratory  and  importuned  the  professor  to  grant  me  a  cram  course  in  zelids.  I  was  weak  in  zelids,  and  could  never  admit  this  to  La  Beanie  or  to  Tiny  Giles  Album.  They  would  have  spread  word  around  the  lab,  word  would  then  have  got  back  to  the  States,  and  I  would  have  been  nixed  in  con-  nection  with  the  applications  I  had  made  for  fourteen  grants  at  various  institutions  of  higher  learning.  I  mas-  tered  zelids  in  a  few  days,  and  went  back  to  the  Hereford.  Burkie  was  in  a  state  of  elation.  He  showed  me  his  new  shears.  &quot;I  think  these  will  do  the  trick,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'They  will  cut  the  dolis  across  and  up  and  down  with  one  snip.&quot;  Burkie  and  I  then  went  to  work  on  the  peptone  complex,  mixing  first  the  oil,  then  the  vinegar.  We  then  mixed  the  vinegar  with  the  mustard,  and  the  oil  with  the  salt.  We  drew  up  the  compotrometric  tables.  We  burdled  the  aladins  and  marcotrized  their  components,  entabu-  lating  the  diagram.  Burkie  and  I  both  noticed  the  exquisite  thing  at  the  same  time:  when  the  gelluloids  came  into  proximity  with  the  marstens,  they  re-  versed  themselves,  taking  all  the  rest  with  them,  in  utter  transposability.  In  other  words,  the  marstens  became  gel-  luloids,  and  the  schematic  beauty  of  the  process  was  staggering,  like  some  crazy  double  sunset.  &quot;Old  trout,&quot;  cried  Bur-  kie,  &quot;I  think  we  may  have  reached  VIDA's  structure!&quot;  I  wasn't  all  that  sanguine,  and  spent  the  weekend  in  Helsinki,  throwing  myself  at  the  mercy  of  Professor  Belius,  who  gave  me  a  quick  course  in  subpeptones.  I  didn't  know  a  thing  about  subpeptones.  There  were  some  lovely  Continental  chirps  in  the  vicinity,  all  gathered  at  the  home  of  Baron  Somebody-or-Other,  and  the  ensemble  watched  the  latest  Swedish  porno  and  guzzled  caviar.  Professor  Belius  was  at  the  party,  too,  and  when  the  ceaselessly  pouring  bubbly  reached  his  frontal  lobes  he  confided  that  Grel  [REDACTED]  had  been  in  Helsinki  the  week  before,  attending  the  XXIII  Crantone  Conference,  and  had  talked  cryptically  about  a  new  pair  of  shears.  Back  to  the  Hereford.  Burkie  had  been  spending  his  time  memorizing  the  li-  bretto  of  &quot;Don  Giovanni.&quot;  The  morning  post  brought  an  im-  mense  package  of  paper  dolls  from  [REDACTED].  We  broke  all  the  rules  of  the  Hereford  and  locked  ourselves  in  our  own  lab.  Using  Burkie's  new  shears,  we  began  to  cut  out  the  dolls,  making  them  adhere  as  closely  as  possi-  ble  to  the  X-rays  we  had  taken  of  mar-  stens  and  gelluloids,  themselves  rebo-  extensions  of  the  oil,  vinegar,  mustard,  and  salt.  Flattened,  before  reboexten-  sion,  they  looked  something  like  this:  78606  &quot;Abridge  them!&quot;  cried  Burkic.  He  dashed  offfor  a  walk  along  Veritas  Lane.  I  played  with  the  paper  dolls  all  afternoon,  wrote  four  or  five  let-  ters  to  Nora-one  of  the  Helsinki  chirps-yawned,  napped,  dreamed  of  the  Persimmon,  and  went  back  to  the  dolls.  Burkie  returned,  and  we  lost  sight  of  time.  We  must  have  been  at  it  for  days.  There  were  oc-  casional  insistent  knocks  on  the  door  of  the  lab  (La  Beanie,  no  doubt,  sticking  her  nose  into  other  people's  af-  fairs),  but  we  paid  no  attention.  'The  dolls  turned  out,  roughly,  like  this:  We  had  it!  From  a  philographic  point  of  view,  the  symmetry,  reverse  to  reverse,  became  perfectly  formed  cryptohomunculi-VID  A  itself.  Chem-  ically,  biologically,  and  structurally,  everything  fell  into  place.  O-M  fit  V-S,  and  the  octones,  the  mulloids  (SMVO),  and,  more  especially,  the  shadowy  gradels  and  the  3.8  X-rayed  out  without  furtivity.  Burkie  and  I  sat  right  down  and  put  our  findings  in  a  paper,  which  we  promptly  mailed  to  Parietal,  the  learned  journal.  We  forgot  to  lock  the  lab  door  when  we  stepped  out  to  mail  the  article,  and  when  we  returned  we  found  Old  Mockridge,  La  Beanie,  and  Tiny  Giles  Album  looking  at  the  paper  dolls  and  scratching  their  heads.  &quot;Oop-eep-ah,&quot;  cried  Burkie,  and  from  the  look  of  sorrow  and  pity  that  crossed  Old  Mockridge's  face  I  knew  that  our  se-  cret  was  still  well  kept.  He  merely  thought  that  Burkie  and  I  were  dotty.  The  little  group  backed  out  somewhat  rapidly,  and  as  La  Beanie  went  through  the  door  I  heard  her  remark,  &quot;A  trag-  edy  when  minds  go  to  seed.&quot;  The  instant  they  had  gone,  we  set  about  sup-  porting  each  doll  with  cardboard  back-  ing,  and  stringing  the  whole  lot  on  the  Tree  of  Life.  They  hung  easily  and  gracefully.  We  moved  the  Tree  behind  a  screen  and  summoned  the  entire  Hereford,  La  Beanie  included,  to  drop  by  at  4  p.m.  and  take  a  look  at  a  little  job  we  had  been  working  on.  Ev-  erybody  turned  up  in  our  lab,  includ-  ing  Churls,  the  janitor.  Burkie  per-  formed  like  an  idiot,  jumping  up  and  down.  I  could  see  that  Mockridge  was  about  to  have  him  committed.  When  everybody  had  been  squeezed  into  the  lab  and  the  door  was  about  to  be  shut  tight,  Grel  [REDACTED]  suddenly  shoved  his  way  through  into  the  small  remain-  ing  space.  Grel  [REDACTED]  &quot;I  just  this  minute  flew  over  from  three  days  at  the  Blendin  Conference,&quot;  [REDACTED]  cried  out.  &quot;Hate  to  spare  the  time.  I'm  on  the  edge  of  VIDA,  right  on  the  edge.&quot;  I  almost  felt  sorry  for  the  fellow.  Burkie  jumped  up  and  down  with  such  violence  that  I  was  certain  he  would  injure  himself.  His  coping  reached  new  heights  of  frenzy.  &quot;We  happen  to  have  something  here  that  I  think  will  be  of  interest  to  you,&quot;  I  said,  as  calmly  as  possible,  and  with  a  flourish  I  removed  the  screen  from  the  Tree  of  Life.  The  entire  room  gasped,  then  broke  into  cheers.  A  painful  silence  followed.  Finally,  Dr.  [REDACTED]  spoke  up,  clearly  and  firmly.  &quot;You  have  done  it,&quot;  he  said,  with  no  cutting  edge  to  his  voice.  &quot;The  structure  of  life  is  ap-  parent  to  us  all.  Certainly  the  Persim-  mon  will  be  yours!&quot;  Old  Mockridge  lost  control  of  him-  self.  &quot;A  memorable  day,&quot;  he  kept  say-  ing,  &quot;when  the  Persimmon  Lab  is  awarded  a  Hereford.&quot;  EvenLa  Beanie  wept  for  joy.  The  group  then  went  over  to  Lord  Marston's  for  cheese  and  chicks,  and  on  the  way  I  remarked  to  myself  how  warm,  how  generous,  how  open,  and  how  unselfish  is  the  entire  scientific  community,  but  I  don't  be-  lievea  word  of  it. "