"THE  POLICEMEN'S  BALL  ORACE,  a  policeman,  was  mak-  H  ing  Rock  Cornish  Game  Hens  for  a  special  supper.  The  Game  Hens  are  frozen  solid,  Horace  thought.  He  was  wearing  his  blue  uniform  pants.  Inside  the  Game  Hens  were  the  gib-  lets  in  a  plastic  bag.  Using  his  needle-  nose  pliers  Horace  extracted  the  fro-  zen  giblets  from  the  interior  of  the  birds.  Tonight  is  the  night  of  the  Po-  licemen's  Ball,  Horace  thought.  We  will  dance  the  night  away.  But  first,  these  Game  Hens  must  go  into  a  three-  hundred-and-fifty-degree  oven.  Horace  shined  his  black  dress  shoes.  Would  Margot  &quot;put  out&quot;  tonight?  On  this  night  of  nights?  Well,  if  she  didn't-  Horace  regarded  the  necks  of  the  birds  which  had  been  torn  asun-  der  by  the  pliers.  No,  he  reflected,  that  is  not  a  proper  thought.  Because  I  am  a  member  of  the  force.  I  must  try  to  keep  my  hatred  under  control.  I  must  try  to  be  an  example  for  the  rest  ofthe  people.  Because  if  they  can't  trust  us  ...  the  blue  men  ...  In  the  dark,  outside  the  Policemen's  Ball,  the  horrors  waited  for  Horace  and  Margot.  Margot  was  alone.  Her  roommates  were  in  Provincetown  for  the  week-  end.  She  put  pearl-colored  lacquer  on  her  nails  to  match  the  pearl  of  her  new-bought  gown.  Police  colonels  and  generals  will  be  there,  she  thought.  The  Pendragon  of  Police  himself.  Whirling  past  the  dais,  I  will  glance  upward.  The  pearl  of  my  eyes  meeting  the  steel  gray  of  high  rank.  Margot  got  into  a  cab  and  went  over  to  Horace's  place.  The  cab-  driver  was  thinking:  A  nice-look-  ing  piece.  I  could  love  her.  __  Horace  removed  the  birds  from  the  oven.  He  slipped  little  gold  frills,  which  had  been  included  in  the  package,  over  the  ends  of  the  drumsticks,  Then  he  uncorked  the  wine,  thinking:  This  is  a  town  without  pity,  this  town.  For  those  whose  voices  lack  the  crack  of  au-  thority.  Luckily  the  uniform  ...  Why  won't  she  surrender  her  per-  son?  Does  she  think  she  can  re-  sist  the  force?  The  force  of  the  force?  &quot;These  birds  are  delicious.&quot;  Driving  Horace  and  Margot  smoothly  to  the  Armory,  the  new  cabdriver  thought  about  basket-  ball:  Why  do  they  always  applaud  the  man  who  makes  the  shot?  Why  don't  they  applaud  the  ball?  It  is  the  ball  that  actually  goes  into  the  net.  The  man  doesn't  go  into  the  net.  Never  have  I  seen  a  man  going  into  the  net.  TWENTY  thousand  policemen  of  all  grades  attended  the  annual  fete.  The  scene  was  Camelot,  with  gay  colors  and  burgees.  The  interior  of  the  Armory  had  been  roofed  with  lav-  ish  tenting.  Police  colonels  and  gen-  erals  looked  down  on  the  dark  uni-  forms,  white  gloves,  silvery  ball  gowns.  'T  onight?&quot;  &quot;Horace,  not  now.  This  scene  is  so  brilliant.  I  want  to  remember  it.&quot;  Horace  thought:  It?  Not  me?  The  Pendragon  spoke.  &quot;I  ask  you  to  be  reasonable  with  the  citizens.  They  pay  our  salaries  after  all.  I  know  that  they  are  difficult  sometimes,  ob-  tuse  sometimes,  even  criminal  some-  times,  as  we  often  run  across,  in  our  line  of  work.  But  I  ask  you  despite  all  to  be  reasonable.  I  know  it  is  hard.  I  know  it  is  not  easy.  I  know  that  for  instance  when  you  see  a  big  car,  a  '68  Biscayne  hardtop,  cutting  around  a  corner  at  a  pretty  fair  clip,  with  three  in  the  front  and  three  in  the  back,  and  they  are  all  mixed  up,  ages  and  sexes  and  colors,  your  natural  impulse  is  to-  I  know  your  first  thought  is,  All  those  people!  Together!  And  your  second  thought  is,  Force!  But  I  must  ask  you  in  the  name  of  force  itself  to  be  restrained.  For  force,  that  great  principle,  is  most  honored  in  the  breach  and  the  observance.  And  that  is  where  you  men  are,  in  the  breach.  You  are  fine  men,  the  finest.  You  are  Ameri-  cans.  So,for  the  sake  of  America,  be  careful.  Be  reasonable.  Be  slow.  In  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Andnow  I  would  like  to  introduce  Vercingetorix,  leader  of  the  firemen,  who  brings  us  a  few  words  of  congratulation  from  that  fine  body  of  men.&quot;  Waves  of  applause  forthe  Pendrag-  on  filled  the  tented  area.  &quot;He  is  a  handsome  older  man,&quot;  Margot  said.  &quot;He  was  born  in  a  Western  state  and  advanced  to  his  present  position  through  raw  merit,&quot;  Horace  told  her.  The  government  of  [REDACTED]  sent  observers  to  the  Policemen's  Ball.  &quot;Our  police  are  not  enough  happy,&quot;  Colonel-General  Cepicky  explained.  &quot;We  seek  ways  to  improve  them.  This  is  a  way.  It  may  not  the  best  way  be  of  all  possible  ways,  but  .  ..  Also  I  like  to  drink  the  official  whiskey!  It  makes  me  gayl),  A  bartender  thought:  Who  is  that  yellow-haired  girl  in  the  pearl  cos-  tume?  She  is  stacked.  The  mood  of  the  Ball  changed.  The  dancing  was  more  serious  now.  Margot's  eyes  sparkled  from  the  jorums  of  champagne  she  had  drunk.  She  felt  Horace's  delicate-  ly  Game  Hen-flavored  breath  on  her  cheek.  I  will  give  him  what  he  wants,  she  decided.  Tonight.  His  heroism  deserves  it.  He  stands  between  us  and  them.  He  represents  what  is  best  in  the  society:  decency,  order,  safety,  strength,  sirens,  smoke.  No,  he  does  not  represent  smoke.  Fire-  men  represent  smoke.  Great  bil-  lowing  oily  black  clouds.  That  Vercingetorix  has  a  noble  look.  With  whom  is  Vercingetorix  dancing,  at  present?  The  horrors  waited  outside  patiently.  Even  policemen,  the  horrors  thought.  We  get  even  policemen,  in  the  end.  In  Horace's  apartment,  a  gold  frill  was  placed  on  a  pearl  toe.  The  horrors  had  moved  out-  side  Horace's  apartment.  Not  even  policemen  and  their  ladies  are  safe,  the  horrors  thought.  No  one  is  safe.  Safety  does  not  exist.  Ha  ha  ha  ha  ha  ha  ha  ha  ha  ha!  "