AND,  IN  THE  CENTER  RING,  THAT  STUPENDOUS  DEA  TH~DEFYING  DAREDEVIL  ...  OW  many  people  are  there,  I  wonder,  who  still  sparkle  up  at  the  memory  of  a  film  called  &quot;Variety&quot;  they  saw  a  while  back-  forty  years  ago,  to  be  exact.  The  ques-  tion  is  purely  rhetorical,  the  answer  self-  evident;  I  recall  the  whole  thing  as  viv-  idly  as  if  I'd  seen  it  yesterday.  U.F.A.  made  it,  and  the  three  principals  were  Emil  Jannings,  Lya  de  Putt  (honest  Injun,  that  was  her  real  name),  and  Warwick  Ward.  The  plot  itself  was  no  bargain-the  ruination  of  a  stellar  tra-  peze  act  because  of  a  casual  frolic  of  Miss  de  Putti's  with  Mr.  Ward  in  the  Fruit  of  the  Loom-but  the  aerial  feats  the  trio  performed  were  breath-  taking,  and  for  the  best  of  reasons:  Alfredo  Codona,  the  wizard  of  the  fiy-  ing  rings,  and  his  partners  doubled  for  the  actors.  I  saw  the  picture  four  times,  reacting  so  volcanically  to  Codona's  for-  ward  triple  somersault  that  I  almost  rent  the  chair  in  front  of  me  to  match-  wood.  Yes,  &quot;Variety&quot;  had  a  potent  ef-  fect  on  me,  both  then  and  subsequently.  It  induced  a  lifelong  adoration  of  cir-  cus  fliers,  it  generated  a  journey  over-  seas,  and  in  the  end  it  led  to  profound  disillusion,  But  let  me  set  down  the  cir-  cumstances  in  some  rough  sequence.  At  that  precise  moment  in  the  fall  of  1927,  I  was  in  a  state  of  acute  indeci-  sion  regarding  my  future.  d  recently  read  &quot;The  Moon  and  Sixpence,&quot;  and,  like  every  young  tinderbox  of  my  gen-  eration,  I  closely  identified  myself  with  Charles  Strickland,  its  protagonist.  The  idea  of  spurning  civilization  and  with-  drawing  to  Tahiti  to  paint  was  pretty  alluring.  On  the  other  hand,  I  felt  a  definite  kinship  with  those  immensely  debonair  figures  of  Michael  Arlen's  in  &quot;The  GreenHat;&quot;  maybe  I  ought  to  plunge  into  the  social  whirl  of  [REDACTED],  engage  a  flat  in  Half  Moon  Street,  and  drain  the  cup  of  debauchery  to  its  lees.  &quot;Variety,&quot;  in  an  indefinable  way,  resolved  my  dilemma.  Its  climactic  scenes  had  been  shot  in  [REDACTED]'s  cele-  brated  cabaret  the  Wintergarten.  It  suddenly  came  over  me  that  my  exist-  ence  would  acquire  new  purpose,  a  real  meaning,  if  I  could  visit  the  actual  locale  of  the  movie  and  behold  life  duplicating  art.  A  fortnight  later,  I  was  steaming  eastward  aboard  the  S.S.  Leviathan,  which  was  conveniently  steaming  in  the  same  direction.  I  hung  around  [REDACTED]  only  long  enough  to  sip  a  fixe  &amp;  Peau  at  the  Dome  in  the  hope  that  somebody  would  mis-   take  me  for  a  habitu\xc3\xa9  of  Montparnasse  (I  was  also  strongly  influenced  by  &quot;The  Sun  Also  Rises&quot;)  and  caught  the  night  express  to  [REDACTED].  The  occupants  of  my  compartment  were  everything  E.  Phillips  Oppenheim  and  I  envi-  sioned.  There  were  a  couple  of  secret  agents  trying  to  pass  themselves  off  as  Swiss  businessmen,  an  aristocratic  old  Italian  contessa,  a  pair  of  Scandinavian  lovebirds,  an  English  spinster  with  a  reticule  full  of  Tauchnitz  novels,  and  a  small,  talkative  party  in  a  whipcord  suit  who  introduced  himself  to  me  as  a  Polish  engineer.  His  baggage,  consist-  ing  of  eleven  cardboard  suitcases  of  graduated  sizes,  filled  the  racks  to  over-  flowing  and  occasioned  audible  resent-  ment  from  his  neighbors.  Soon  after  we  crossed  the  German  frontier,  the  engineer  burrowed  into  his  luggage,  produced  a  gigantic  sausage  and  a  loaf  of  pumpernickel,  and  fashioned  a  hil-  lock  of  sandwiches.  Distributing  these  among  the  company,  he  then  conjured  up  halfa  dozen  collapsible  metal  cups,  filled  them  with  cognac,  and  proposed  a  toast  to  international  amity.  By  the  time  we  rolled  into  [REDACTED],  everyone  in  the  carriage  was  expansive,  even  the  spies,  and  a  state  of  utter  bonhomie  prevailed.  Thanks  to  the  concierge  at  the  Ad-  lon,  I  secured  a  table  in  the  loges  of  the  Wintergarten  at  several  times  its  cost  and,  fortified  by  a  flagon  of  Rhenish,  prepared  to  succumb  to  the  witchery  of  my  surroundings.  It  soon  became  apparent  that  something  was  radically  wrong.  The  entertainment  was  fourth-rate  vaudeville-sleazy  animal  acts,  maladroit  acrobats  who  foundered  in  and  out  of  trampolines,  and  monologuists  whose  patter,  luckily,  was  incomprehensible  to  me.  Panic-  stricken,  I  summoned  the  headwaiter  and  tried  to  elicit  from  him,  by  flap-  ping  my  arms,  what  time  the  aerialists  came  on.  Eventually,  I  was  given  to  understand  that  there  had  been  none  on  the  bill  for  several  years,  nor  were  any  scheduled  in  the  foreseeable  future.  Enraged  at  my  folly  in  embark-  ing  on  a  wild-goose  chase  (cine  wilde  Gansejagd),  I  was  about  to  leave  when  a  snarl  of  trumpets  ushered  in  the  star  attraction  of  the  evening-  an  American  dance  orchestra.  One  of  the  saxophonists,  a  bulbous  chap  in  the  front  row,  was  strangely  familiar,  and  midway  through  a  somewhat  less  than  uproarious  rendition  of  &quot;Down  by  the  Winegar  Woiks&quot;  I  recognized  him  as  Tubby  Funkhouser,  a  college  classmate  I  had  rigorously  avoided  as  " b"   a  drip.  Notwithstanding,  I  instantly  sought  him  out  backstage,  and  we  fell  on  each  other's  necks  like  castaways  re-  united.  The  rest  of  the  evening  is  a  blur,  but  I  remember  the  two  of  us  in  some  grisly  Nachtlokal  in  the  Kurfir-  stendamm  buying  wine  for  three  eld-  erly  harpiecs  straight  out  of  George  Grosz's  inkwell  and  ultimately  being  toted  through  the  Adlon's  lobby  with  my  feet  dragging.  RUITLESS  though  my  quest  had  been,  I  never  swerved  a  hair  there-  after  in  my  devotion  to  aerialists-and  Codona  above  all-but  about  a  year  ago  I  lost  my  heart  to  another  superb  gymnast,  a  lady  named  Violette  La-  Fong,  with  the  Ringling  Circus.  Miss  LaFong  was  an  equilibrist  whose  spe-  cialty  was  working  on  the  high  trapeze  under  the  most  hazardous  conditions.  Using  no  net  and  defying  the  law  of  gravity,  she  swung  hither  and  yon  as  effortlessly  as  a  gibbon,  catching  herself  by  heels  or  chin  as  the  audience  moaned  in  anguish.  The  finale  of  her  turn  was  so  spectacular  that  one  had  to  steel  one-  self  to  watch.  Maneuvering  herself  by  degrees  into  a  headstand  on  the  trapeze  bar,  she  tossed  a  length  of  rope  to  an  assistant  forty  feet  below.  The  lackey  then  began  slowly  agitating  the  rope  so  that  the  trapeze  described  an  ellipse.  Its  course  grew  longer  and  wider,  Miss  LaFong's  perch  ever  more  per-  ilous,  until  the  spectators  whimpered  for  mercy.  When  she  finally  granted  it  and,  ceasing  her  gyrations,  slid  gracefully  to  terra  firma,  the  applause  was  orgiastic.  The  day  after  I  saw  her,  I  rangup  a  Russian  friend  of  mine,  a  scenic  de-  signer  and  painter  many  of  whose  can-  vases  have  dealt  with  aspectsof  the circus.  &quot;You  know  all  kinds  of  gifted  people,  Alexei,&quot;  I  began.  &quot;There's  a  trapeze  artist  over  at  the  Garden,  a  woman-&quot;  &quot;By  the  name  of  Violette  LaFong,&quot;  he  finished.  &quot;I'm  in  love  with  her,  too.  Forget  it,  my  boy.  This  lady  is  not  for  groundlings  like  you  and  me.&quot;  &quot;Look,  I'm  not  talking  about  love  or  marriage,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  merely  want  to  kneel  before  her  and  pay  homage.  Can  you  arrange  it?!&quot;  &quot;Falling  off  a  log,&quot;  he  said.  Alexei  prides  himself  on  his  grasp  of  the  vernacular.  &quot;She's  a  Russian,  like  ev-  erybody  in  the  circus,  and  all  us  Rus-  sians  know  each  other.  You  saw  Mas-  similiano  Truzzi,  the  juggler?  A  Rus-  sian.  Unus  the  Great-the  one  that  stands  on  his  finger?  Another  Russian.  1  can  name  you  fifty-&quot;  I  cut  short  his  roll  call  of  Muscovites  under  the  big  top,  and  we  fixed  a  rendezvous  for  the  next  day.  From  the  welcome  shown  Alexei  by  tumblers,  clowns,  and  roustabouts  as  we  made  our  way  through  the  labyrinth  beneath  the  Garden,  it  was  plain  he  had  not  exaggerated.  The  tiny  kimono-clad  figure  that  opened  the  door  of  Miss  LaFong's  dressing  room  was  quite  dif-  ferent  from  what  I  had  expected.  Her  broad  shoulders,  disproportionate  to  her  height,  gave  her  a  peculiarly  fore-  shortened  appearance,  and  her  face,  while  comely  and  reminiscent  of  Olga  Baclanova's,  was  haggard  from  strain.  Alexei  introduced  me  in  a  spate  of  Russian  I  interpreted  to  mean  that  I  was  anardent  admirer,  for  she  squeezed  my  hand  gratefully.  &quot;Ah,  gentlemen,  you  are  too  kind,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Here,  seat  yourselves  wher-  ever  you  can  find.  Throw  that  valise  in  the  corner.  ...So,  you  really  en-  joyed  me?&quot;  &quot;I  can't  tell  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  wouldn't  believe  anyone  could  do  that  headstand  you  finish  with.&quot;  &quot;Nobody  can,  my  friend,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Who  wants  to  practice  four  years  like  I  did  before  I  showed  it?  Alexei,  you  remember  Dolores  Montoya,  that  big  brunette?  She  tried  in  [REDACTED],  but  she  fell,  poor  thing.&quot;  &quot;Discipline,&quot;  said  Alexei.  &quot;This  is  what  separates  the  sheep  from  the  goats.  The  whole  secret  of  the  artist  is  discipline.&quot;  &quot;Also  force  of  habit,  tovarich,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  do  something  long  enough,  I  don't  care  what,  it  becomes  second  nature.  Which  it's  a  lucky  thing,  be-  cause  if  I  stopped  to  ask  what  am  I  doing  up  there,  it's  goodbye  Violette  LaFong.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  it's  not  an  impertinent  ques-  tion,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  what  does  a  person  think  about  when  she's  whirling  around  upside  down  on  a  trapeze?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  personally  am  worrying  about  my  financial  problems,&quot;  she  con-  fessed.  &quot;Money,  money  the  whole  time.  How  much  it  costs  to  clean  my  cos-  tumes,  the  tips  I  hand  out  in  hotels,  the  prices  I  have  to  pay  for  my  props.  Ropes,  for  instance.  How  much  do  you  think  they  charge  for  that  long  rope  my  assistant  pulls?  Make  a  guess.&quot;  &quot;Eighteen  cents  a  foot?&quot;  Alexei  asked.  &quot;Ha-ha!&quot;  Violette  barked.  &quot;Foolish  man-you  see  what  you  know?  It  used  to  cost  thirty  cents  a  foot.  Now  it's  sixty-five!  Who  can  afford  it?&quot;  &quot;But  your  life  depends  on  it,&quot;  I  ob-  jected.  &quot;Pah!  A  piece  of  clothesline  would  " b"  give  the  same  effect,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  worst  of  all  is  that  assistant-a  real  durak.  Ninety-five  dollars  a  week  for  posing  in  a  red  tunic,  and  he's  drunk  half  the  time.  No,  I  tell  you,  when  I  add  up  my  expenses  and  taxes  up  there,  I  get  heartburn.  It's  all  I  can  do  to  keep  my  balance,  I'm  so  angry.&quot;  She  arose  and  extended  her  hand.  &quot;Well,  boys,  you  must  excuse  me.  I  have  to  dress  for  the  grand  spec.&quot;  As  Alexei  and  I  emerged  into  the  workaday  battle  of  Eighth  Avenue,  he  stole  asidelong  glance  at  me.  &quot;Why  the  letdown  nose?&quot;  he  inquired.  &quot;Oh,  nothing.  ...  Another  illusion  gone,  I  guess.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  it  don't  pay  to  get  too  close  to  genius,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;One  time  in  [REDACTED],  I  went  through  fire  and  water  to  meet  Picasso.  What  do  you  think  he  talked  about?  How  much  his  camel's-hair  brushes  cost  him.  Watch  out!&quot;  He  jerked  me  out  of  the  path  of  an  on-  coming  limousine,  and  then,  as  it  raced  on,  stood  staring  after  it,  transfixed.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  he  said,  his  voice  trembling.  &quot;You  know  who  was  in  that  car?  Sophia  Loren!&quot;  &quot;So  what?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;My  God,  man!&quot;  he  exploded.  \xc2\xbb)  &quot;Are  you  made  of  stone?  This  is  not  simply  a  woman-this  is  all  women  rolled  into  one.  I'd  go  through  fire  and  water  to  meet  her-just  to  breathe  the  same  air.  A  person  like  this  could  change  your  whole  life,  give  you  a  new  perspective  ...&quot;"