 SOMETHING  OF  A  MIRACLE  HE  child's  name  was  Andrew.  He  was  four  years  old.  He  was  standing,  half  on  tiptoe,  under  the  living-room  table.  Red  baize  lined  the  bottom  side  of  the  table  drawer;  Andrew  loved  the  feel  of  it  against  his  hair  when  he  rocked  on  his  toes,  slow-  ly  backward  and  forward,  in  the  dark-  ening  afternoon.  He  could  hear,  and  was  becoming  used  to,  the  new  sound  of  the  house:  the  crying  ofa  baby,  and  the  crying  of  his  mother.  Under  the  table,  with  the  velvet  tablecloth  pulled  well  down,  he  was  almost  out  of  reach  of  the  glow  from  the  fire,  its  light  and  excessive  warmth;  he  was  almost  out  of  the  sound  of  the  wild  sea  that  smashed  on  the  shingle  bank  behind  the  house  and  scattered  little  ends  of  spray  along  the  windows.  The  biggest  waves,  though,  sought  him  out.  They  shud-  dered  the  earth  outside,  and  the  floor  shook  momentarily.  And  the  biggest  flames  of  the  fire,  when  they  sprang  up  at  a  draft,  showed  him  the  baize  was  red  still.  He  was  out  of  the  way  of  his  grandmother,  whose  long  black  skirt  he  heard  over  the  roughened  tiles  that  led  from  the  kitchen  to  the  bedroom  where  his  mother  was,  where  he  could  not  go.  When  it  was  time  for  him  to  go  to  bed,  it  would  not  be  his  mother  who  would  wash  himand  hold  him  on  her  knee  and  brush  the  little  flecks  of  red  baize  from  his  hair.  His  father  might,  if  he  came  back  before  bed-  time-if  he  didn't  go  straight  to  his  mother's  bedroom  and  stay  there  a  long  while.  The  night  before  and  the  night  before  that,  though,  it  was  his  grandmother  who  had  pulled  him  from  under  the  table  and  put  him  in  bed,  not  talking  to  him,  not  letting  him  have  a  little  play.  He  had  not  been  washed,  or  had  his  hair  brushed;  when  he  woke  up  in  the  morning,  he  found  three  tufts  of  baize  on  his  pillow,  like  red  spiders.  He  pinched  the  tufts  together  and  ran  to  show  his  mother,  but  when  he  stood  on  a  stool  to  reach  for  the  handle  of  the  door  his  grandmother  ran  through  the  passage  from  the  kitch-  en  and  lifted  him  down  and  took  him  back  to  his  bed.  &quot;She  doesn't  want  to  see  you  now,&quot;  Granny  had  said.  &quot;Your  mummy  is  tired  and  sick  and  she  doesn't  want  to  see  you.&quot;  Most  of  the  day  he  had  sat  or  stood  up  under  the  table,  without  any  toys.  He  would  not  cry.  He  listened  to  the  doors  being  opened,  the  feet  that  hur-  ried  from  the  living  room  and  came  back  slowly.  For  a  little  while,  at  in-  tervals,  he  fell  asleep  on  his  cushion,  facing  the  wall.  The  outhouse  door  slammed  shut,  then  the  kitchen  door  opened.  It  was  his  father  back.  His  grandmother  was  lighting  the  gas;  Andrew  heard  the  match  being  struck,  the  hiss  of  the  un-  lit  jet,  the  tinkling  of  the  chain  against  the  globe.  The  room  filled  with  light  as  he  looked  out  from  under  the  table-  cloth  and  saw  his  father's  legs  and  his  muddy  boots.  The  light  was  popping  quietly.  His  grandmother  spoke.  &quot;We  need  a  new  mantle.  Listen  to  it.  Only  half  of  this  one  left.&quot;  &quot;What  do  we  use  to  pay  for  one?  How  is  she?&quot;  &quot;Got  to  have  one.  The  doctor  might  want  a  good  light.  We  might  have  to  move  her  out  here.  Can't  manage  any  longer  with  an  oil  lamp  in  there.  Too  dangerous.  She  might  knock  it  over.  She  doesn't  know  what's  going  on.&quot;  &quot;Doctor  been?&quot;  &quot;Three  times.  The  worst  will  be  over  after  tonight,  he  says.  She's  been  shouting.  Doesn't  know  where  she  is.  Been  shouting  like  somebody  mad.  Can't  sleep.  She's  getting  worse.  I've  been  running  in  and  out  all  day.  I'll  have  to  stay  with  her  tonight.  You'll  have  to  move  my  bed  in.&quot;  &quot;What  is  there  to  eat?&quot;  &quot;Nothing,  except  what  we  need  for  her.  There's  a  bit  of  bread.  Mrs.  Brooks  said  she'd  bring  some  soup,  but  she  hasn't  come.  You'll  have  to  go  out  and  see  what  you  can  get,  borrow  a  shilling  or  two.  Get  a  mantle  before  you  do  anything  else.  Whether  or  not  she  comes  out  here,  we'll  have  to  have  a  bit  of  light.  Still  no  jobs  then?&quot;  &quot;I've  walked  all  day.  Nothing.  Not  even  a  promise.  I  got  wind  ofa  job  over  in  Portslade.  Charlie  told  me  his  brother  was  jacking  in  his  job  so  he     MAY  18,  19  6  8  could  go  and  fight  in  537061696e.  You  know  Charlie's  brother  Sam.&quot;  &quot;I  know  him-stupid  merchant  he  is.  Don't  you  have  no  hank  with  him.  Nor  with  any  of  his  foulmouthed  friends.  Anarchists  or  something,  aren't  they?  Bright  clients.&quot;  \xc2\xabWell,  anyway,  Sam's  got  it  into  his  head  to  catch  the  next  boat  out,  so  I  padded  it  over  to  Portslade  to  see  if  I  could  get  a  start.  Time  I'd  got  there,  though,  somebody  else  had  it.  Took  my  tools  with  me,  too.  All  of  them.  No  use  turning  up  on  the  site  with  just  a  hammer  and  a  saw.  Foreman  wouldn't  look  at  you.  Have  to  have  a  full  set.  I'd  walked  most  of  the  way  back  before  old  Eccles  came  by  and  gave  me  a  lift  in  his  van.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  shame  about  you,  I'm  sure.  You'll  just  have  to  try  again  tomorrow  and  the  day  after  that,  if  need  be.&quot;  &quot;Still,  I  get  my  dole  money  tomor-  row.&quot;  &quot;We  shan't  get  fat  on  that.  You'll  have  to  do  something.  Now,  get  that  bed  moved  for  me.  Now  you're  home,  I'll  try  and  get  a  bit  of  sleep  before  the  doctor  comes.  He  said  he'd  come  round  when  he's  finished  all  his  other  calls  tonight.  Somewhen  about  nine  o'clock  it'll  be.  You'll  have  to  see  to  young  Andrew.  He's  had  nothing  to  eat  all  day-nothing  to  speak  of.  Just  sat  un-  der  that  table  again.  Tried  to  open  his  mother's  door  this  morning,  soon  after  you'd  gone  out.  Just  you  tell  him,  so  he  understands.  He's  not  to  go  any-  where  near  that  door.  'The  purple  fever's  a  horrible  thing.  Your  Auntie  Agnes  died  of  it.  Keep  him  away.  She  mustn't  be  upset.&quot;  Andrew  watched  as  his  father  brought  a  roll  of  bedclothes  out  of  the  kitchen,  where  his  granny  had  been  sleeping  since  she  came  to  live  in  the  house.  He  watched  him  take  them  down  the  dark  passage  and  he  heard  his  mother's  door  being  opened,  and  he  heard  her  breathing,  whining.  His  father  came  back  for  the  folding  bed,  and  his  granny  went  down  the  pas-  sage  behind  him,  carrying  her  pillow  and  her  nightgown.  Now  that  Granny  had  gone,  he  could  come  out.  He  sat  on  the  sofa,  on  the  edge  of  it  so  that  his  feet  would  touch  the  floor.  His  father  came  back  into  the  room;  he  didn't  speak  but  picked  Andrew  up  and  sat  him  across  his  lap  and  held  him  close.  &quot;Mum-  my  poorly  in  there,  Daddy,&quot;  Andrew  said.  But  his  father  was  asleep.  The  gas  was  still  popping  and  a  little  blue  curl  of  the  jet  was  fanned  from  the  draft  that  made  the  kitchen  door  keep  tapping  against  the  latch.  The  fire  col-  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  lapsed  in  a  heap  of  white  ash.  Andrew  put  his  fingers  to  his  father's  lips  and  fell  asleep.  *%  EORGE,  George,  for  God's  sake  get  yourself  up.  Andrew,  come  on,  move.  George!  Can't  you  hear  the  doctor  knocking:  I  can't  go  to  the  door  looking  like  this.  Rouse  yourself,  do.  Keep  the  doctor  in  the  kitchen  while  I  get  myself  dressed.  I  don't  know,  falling  asleep  in  here  with  the  gas  full  on,  going  to  waste.  I  thought  youwere  going  out  to  get  a  new  mantle  before  the  shops  shut.  Pll  just  bet  Mrs.  Brooks  has  been  with  the  soup  and  couldn't  make  you  hear.  Oh,  itis  too  bad  of  you,  it  really  is.  Look!  You've  let  the  fire  go  out.  No,  I'll  see  to  that  in  a  minute.  Go  and  let  the  doctor  in.&quot;  Granny  had  been  shaking  his  shoulder  with  one  handand  straightening  the  tablecloth  with  the  other  as  she  spoke.  Now  she  was  out  of  the  room  again.  &quot;And  put  the  kettle  on!&quot;  she  shouted  from  the  passage.  The  doctor  had  already  let  himself  in  when  George  reached  the  kitchen.  He  had  been  waiting  behind  the  kitch-  en  door,  listening.  He  came  into  the  living  room  and  put  his  bag  on  the  sofa  next  to  Andrew.  &quot;Hello,  young  An-  drew,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Isn't  it  about  time  little  boys  like  you  were  in  bed?&quot;  &quot;We've  been  asleep  on  here,  Doc-  tor,&quot;  George  said.  &quot;I  must  have  nodded  off,  I  was  that  tired  when  I  got  in.&quot;  &quot;Still  looking  for  work:&quot;  &quot;Looking.&quot;  &quot;I  can  see  you're  tired.  And  the  old  lady  is,  too,  by  the  sound  of  it.&quot;  &quot;She  keeps  on  at  us.  I'm  doing  my  best,  How  long  does  this  goon  for?&quot;  &quot;You  can't  tell  with  puerperal  fever.  I've  known  it  go  on  for  a  long  time,  and  get  very  much  worse  than  this  is.  We  might  have  to  take  her  into  hospital.  Be  prepared  for  that.  On  the  other  hand,  this  is  only  mild  so  far.&quot;  &quot;She's  been  shouting,  so  the  old  lady  says.&quot;  &quot;Oh  dear.&quot;  &quot;I've  not  heard  her  shouting,  though.  She  wasn't  shouting  when  I  came  in.  Just  staring  about.  I  don't  think  she's  been  shouting.  It's  just  the  old  lady  trying  to  put  the  wind  up  me,  the old cat.  She  was  with  my  Auntie  Agnes  when  she  died  of  it.  That  was  years  and  years  ago.  That  can't  happen  now,  can  it?  Not  in  1937?  She'll  be  all  right,  won't  she?&quot;  &quot;You  mustn't  worry  yourself.  Things  are  better  than  they  used  to  be.  I  think  she'll  be  over  the  worst  of  it  tonight.  I  think  the  crisis  is  coming  on.  I  warn  you,  it  won't  be  very  pleas-  ant.  Young  Andrew  would  be  better  off  out  of  it.  Is  there  anywhere  the  two  of  you  could  spend  the  night?  What  about  at  your  sister  Alice's?  Stay  by  him  until  he's  asleep,  then  you  could  come  back  here,  if  you  wanted  to.  Not  that  there's  anything  you  could  do.  But  be  back  by  eight  in  the  morn-  ing.  I'd  not  move  her  beforethen,  but  if  I  decide  to  have  her  admitted  into  hospital  I'd  have  to  have  you  available  to  sign  the  forms.&quot;  &quot;How  ever  shall  we  pay  hospital  bills?  Or  yours,  Doctor?  I  just  don't  know  who  to  turn  to.  There's  nothing  in  the  house  to  eat  until  I  get  my  dole  tomorrow.  They  don't  open  till  nine  o'clock,  anyway.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter  about  the  money.  Not  yet.  But  it  does  matter  about  having  something  to  eat.  Look  after  that  boy.  And  yourself.  And  theold  lady.  You  don't  want  to  have  any  more  invalids  in  the  house,  do  you?  Why  don't  you  put  out  your  line?:  A  bit  of  fish  would  build  you  up.  Give  you  something  to  do,  too.&quot;  &quot;Iwould,  but  it's  been  blowing  up  a  gale  all  day.  Won't  be  able  to  move  for  weed.  Anyway,  the  fish  don't  come  in  close  when  the  water's  rough.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  it's  so  rough  as  it  was.  Listen,  the  wind  has  dropped.&quot;  Granny  had  come  back  and  was  rustling  sticks  and  paper  in  the  hearth.  &quot;I'd  better  have  a  look  at  her  now,  Mrs.  Whitting,&quot;  the  doctor  said.  He  " b"38     followed  her.  She  was  carrying  one  of  the  sticks.  NDREW  sat  on  the  bench  in  his  father's  shed.  By  candlelight  George  found  his  hurricane  lamp  be-  hind  the  box  in  which  he  kept  his  dead  brother's  tools.  He  filled  the  lamp  with  oil,  lifted  the  glass  dome  to  clean  the  wick,  and  then  lit  it  from  the  can-  dle.  Thick  black  smoke  poured  upward  at  first,  but  when  the  dome  clicked  back  in  position  and  the  wick  was  turned  down  half  an  inch  the  lamp  burned  clear  and  the  smoke  dispersed.  George  blew  out  the  candle  and  gave  it  to  Andrew  to  hold.  A  drop  of  the  hot  wax  fell  onto  the  boy's  knee  and  made  him  flinch;  he  pushed  it  off  with  his  fingernail  and  watched  the  white  flecks  fall  down  among  the  shavings.  &quot;Mind  you  don't  tumble  down,  now,&quot;  George  said.  &quot;Here,  you  hold  the  bait  box  while  I  get  the  trot-  line  down.&quot;  He  lifted  down  the  oval  basket  in  which  he  kept  the  hundred  yards  of  thick  cord,neatly  coiled.  There  were  hooks  joined  by  silk  snoods  all  along  the  cord-a  hook  for  every  yard.  When  the  trotline  had  been  laid  in  the  basket,  each  hook  in  turn  had  been  secured  into  a  flat,  round  piece  of  cork  just  large  enough  to  hold  them  all.  The  cork  lay  in  the  middle  of  the  coils.  At  each  end  of  the  oval  basket  was  a  heavy  piece  of  broken  fire  iron,  to  which  the  ends  of  the  cord  were  attached.  &quot;Daddy,  will  we  go  fishing  tomor-  row,  when  I  get  up?&quot;  &quot;We'll  go  now.  Do  you  want  to  come  with  me?&quot;  &quot;It's  dark.  It's  bedtime.&quot;  &quot;Want  to  come  and  hold  the  lan-  tern?  Help  Daddy?&quot;  &quot;'Take  my  spade  and  dig.&quot;  &quot;Not  this  time.  You  help  Daddy  when  he  digs  with  his  big  fork.  Pick  up  the  worms  and  put  them  in  the  box.  Will  you  do  that?  Then  we'll  catch  a  fish  for  Mummy.&quot;  C\xe2\x80\x98Y\xe2\x80\x99es.))  George  lifted  Andrewdown  and  gave  him  the  lamp  to  carry  in  one  hand  and  the  bait  box  in  the  other;  outside  the  shed,  he  picked  up  the  garden  fork  that  he  had  put  ready  against  the  wall  ofthe  house  and  slung  it  over  his  shoulder.  He  held  the  trotline  basket  under  his  other  arm.  As  they  walked  across  the  rough  ground  toward  the  shingle  bank,  the  heavy  irons  shifted  about  in  the  basket,  bumping  awk-  wardly  out  of  timewith  his  footsteps  against  the  ridge  of  his  hipbone.  When  they  had  gone  halfway,  he  stopped  so  that  he  could  transfer  the  basket  to  his  shoulder  and  trail  the  fork  behind  him.  The  tines  rang  and  briefly  hummed  as  they  bounced  over  the  larger  boulders.  High-water  mark,  when  they  reached  it,  was  piled  with  seaweed  so  deep  that  Andrew  couldhardly  step  through  it;  he  began  to  cry  when  he  tripped  and  dropped  the  lamp,  but  his  father  picked  it  up  so  acrobatically  on  the  toe  of  his  boot  that  he  began  to  laugh  instead.  They  walked  the  last  yards  to  the  edge  of  the  sand.  There  was  a  thin  drift  of  rain  beginning,  enough  to  hiss  on  the  glass  of  the  lamp.  The  tide  had  begun  to  make,  some  time  before;they  could  see  the  edge  of  the  water,  dark  as  it  was  beyond  the  reach  of  the  lamp.  &quot;We'll  have  to  get  a  move  on,  Andrew.  Keep  your  eyes  skinned.  Hold  the  lamp  close  to  where  I'm  dig-  ging  and  be  sure  not  to  drop  the  box.&quot;  &quot;Will  Mummy  come  fishing  with  us  next  time?&quot;  &quot;If  she's  better.  Hold  the  lamp  still.  Think  about  what  you're  doing.&quot;  George  hadbegun  to  dig  very  fast.  The  clammy  sand  gasped  as  the  fork  sank  into  it.  A  dozen  or  more  times  he  drove  the  fork  in,  lifting  the  great,  heavy  slabs  and  tumbling  them  to  break  over  his  boot  at  the  side  of  the  trench  he  was  making.  There  were  no  worms  big  enough  to  keep;  the  three  or  four  that  Andrew  picked  up  would  have  broken  on  the  shank  of  the  hook.  &quot;It's  no  good  this  far  up,  Andrew,&quot;  George  said.  &quot;We'll  have  to  try  nearer  the  water's  edge.  Come  on.  We  can't  fool  about.  We've  got  to  keep  at  it,  and  quick.&quot;  Andrew  threw  down  the  little  shell  that  he  had  been  holding  up  to  his  ear.  The  sea  sounded  farther  off  than  it  was.  They  were  soon  in  the  wet  patch  left  by  a  receding  wave  and  had  to  run  back  a  few  yards  before  the  next  breaker  caught  up  with  them.  George  began  to  dig  again,  faster  than  before.  This  time  he  was  facing  the  sea,  poised  to  move  as  soon  as  the  tide  filled  the  trench;  it  was  difficult  to  lift  the  sand.  But  worms  began  to  fall  from  every  third  or  fourth  dig-long,  plump  lugworms  and  white,  whiskered  rag  worms  that  could  scuttle  back  under  the  surface  if  Andrew  did  not  move  quickly  to  pick  them  up.  The  waves  threw  up  a  whitebait  or  two.  They  bounced  like  little  trick  rubber  toys  toward  the  water.  As  he  worked,  George  felt  an  anger  rising  in  him  that  all  through  the  day  he  had  kept  well  down.  When  he  spoke  to  the  foreman  at  Portslade,  he  had  made  himself  speak  quietly,  with  a  sort  of  rough  courtesy  that  would  make  him  be  remembered  if  ever  another  job  should  become  vacant  there,  but  he  had  wanted  to  strike  the  man  who  had  turned  him  down,  as  if  it  had  been  his  fault  that  he  had  walked  twelve  miles  with  a  heavy  tool  bag.  At  home,  he  had  wanted  to  strike  his  mother,  who,  sick  with  worry,  had  seemed  to  blame  him  for  not  finding  work,  for  being  exhausted,  for  having  no  money  to  buy  a  gas  mantle.  He  let  his  anger  out  by  savaging  each  spit  of  clinging  " b"39     sand  and  mud,  hurling  it  down.  When  alargestone  stuck  in  the  prongs,  he  kicked  at  it  until  it  shook  free,  and  then  he  picked  it  up  and  threw  it  with  all  his  strength  toward  the  incoming  tide.  He  thought  of  his  wife,  how  she  would  be  fighting  against  her  fever.  Fear  took  the  place  of  his  anger  as  he  imagined  the  brutal  waves  of  delirium  crashing  down  to  break  over  her.  He  knew  what  high  fever  was;  his  broth,  er  had  died  in  his  arms  as  he  shouted  unintelligible  rubbish  and  then  col-  lapsed  with  his  arms  and  legs  rigid.  The  trench  in  front  of  him  filled  with  water;  he  moved  back  another  few  yards  to  keep  the  sea  away  from  what  he  was  doing.  In  his  fury  of  work,  he  almost  forgot  why  he  was  digging.  His  son  was  silent,  moving  to  the  frantic  rhythm  of  his  digging  and  keeping  the  lamp  along  the  trench  beside  the  bait  box.  The  man  and  the  boy  seemed  linked  by  the  light  between  them-a  large  boat  towing  a  tender.  George  felt  the  strength  going  out  of  him.  There  were  only  a  few  yards  of  sand  left  to  dig,  and  when  he  began  to  hear  the  fork  grating  against  the  fine  beach  that  mixed  with  the  sand  near  the  start  of  the  shingle  bank,  he  felt  beaten,  broken.  &quot;Hang  on,  hang  on,&quot;he  had  said  to  his  brother  when  he  was  dying.  &quot;Hang  on,  hang  on,  you  must  beat  it.&quot;  The  handle  of  the  fork  kept  slipping  in  the  sweat  of  his  palm.  His  temples  throbbed  and  the  spittle  thickened  un-  der  his  tongue.  How  will  it  be  if  she  dies?  How  will  it  be  if  the  sea  won't  hold  back?  Hang  on-how  would  it  be?  &quot;Andrew,  now  you  must  help  me  some  more,&quot;  he  gasped.  &quot;We've  got  to  lay  the  line  out  and  bait  up  the  hooks.  If  there's  not  enough  worms,  we'll  have  to  make  do.  Hold  the  lamp  close.&quot;  The  line  was  soon  laid  out  parallel  to  the  bottom  of  the  shingle  bank,  and  the  irontags  at  each  end  sunk  deep  in  the  sand  to  anchor  it.  George  straddled  the  line  and,  moving  backward,  baited  the  hooks.  Holding  the  lamp  at  a  tilt,  Andrew  saw  the  spurt  of  blood  as  each  worm  passed  onto  the  barb  and  was  worked  up  the  shank.  Whenever  the  wind  stopped,  he  felt  the  small  heat  of  the  lamp  on  his  chin.  His  feet  were  cold  and  wet,  and  his  wrist  ached  with  the  weight  of  the  lamp.  The  water  had  reached  the  line  as  the  last  few  hooks  were  baited;  the  worms  washed  about  in  the  gentle  ebb  and  flow,  slowly  ooz-  ing  in  the  froth.  George  gathered  up  the  fistful  of  bait  remaining  after  the  last  hook  was  covered,  and  tossed  it  into  the  water  and  washed  his  hands,  rubbing  them  clean  with  fine  beach.  &quot;That's  it,  we've  done  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Come  on,  laddie,  you've  worked  like  a  man.  I'll  take  the  lamp  now.&quot;  He  put  the  bait  box  in  the  basket,  threaded  the  fork  handle  through  the  handle  of  the  lamp,  and  started  back  up  the  bank.  They  reached  the  line  of  upturned  boats  above  high-water  mark,  and  George  put  down  his  load.  He  untied  the  tarpaulin  cover  from  a  dinghy  and  rolled  it  back  until  it  fell  from  the  stern  end.  Then  he  blew  out  the  lamp  and  lifted  the  side  of  the  boat.  &quot;Under  you  go,&quot;  he  said.  An-  drew  crawled  under  the  boat  while  his  father  propped  up  the  side  with  the  fork.  Then,  when  he  had  unrolled  the  tarpaulin  to  make  a  cover  for  them,  he  lay  beside  his  son  and  put  his  arm  round  him  to  tuck  the  ends  of  the  sheet  as  far  under  the  boy's  body  as  they  would  reach,  T  was  Andrew  who  woke  first.  He  looked  across  the  mound  of  his  father's  body  and  saw  the  stem  of  the  boat  next  to  the  one  they  were  lying  under,  and  the  ragged  yellow  poppies  growing  in  the  stones.  There  was  bright  sunshine,  and  not  enough  wind  to  move  the  broken  petals.  When  the  boy  sat  up,  he  pulled  the  tarpaulin  down  from  George's  face  and  shouted,  &quot;Daddy,  Daddy,  it's  morning!&quot;  George  rolled  from  under  the  dinghy  and  stood  up,  stamping  his  feet  and  clapping  his  hands  to  make  them  warm.  He  looked  toward  the  water  and  saw  that  the  line  was  still  covered,  but  only  just.  There  were  gulls  in  a  tight  flock,  screaming  a  few  feet  above  where  it  lay,  sometimes  diving  low  enough  over  the  water  to  touch  the  still  surface  lightly.  George  kicked  off  his  shoes  and  took  off  his  socks  and  rolled  up  the  legs  of  his  trousers.  He  waded  into  the  water,  feeling  for  the  line  with  his  toes.  When  he  found  it,  he  traced  it  along  until  he  reached  the  end,  then  cut  it  as  near  as  he  could  to  the  anchor  iron.  He  wound  the  end  of  the  line  three  times  round  his  wrist  and  started  to  haul  it  inshore.  With  dismay,  he  saw  the  first  few  yards  smothered  with  heavy,  brown  festoons  of  weed.  He  walked  up  the  shingle  until  he  hadn't  the  strength  to  pull  any  more  from  the  sea,  then  went  back  down  to  take  hold  of  the  line  again  at  the  edge  of  the  water;he  did  this  four  times.  From  end  to  end,  it  was  covered  en-  tirely  with  weed.  He  looked  at  the  night's  useless  harvest  lying  in  the  warm  sun,  steaming  the  whole  tangled  length  of  his  line.  If  Andrew  hadn't  started  to  jump  up  and  down  on  the  thickest  mass  of  it,  he  might  have  left  all  his  tackle  where  it  lay.  &quot;Daddy,  my  shoe's  come  off  and  I  can't  find  it.&quot;  &quot;You  silly  boy.  Keep  still  where  you  are.  It  can't  be  far  away.&quot;  He  plunged  his  hand  into  the  weed  and  found  the  shoe.  As  he  lifted  it  out,  he  saw  the  side  ofa  fish-a  black  bream.  &quot;Well,  would  you  believe  it,  we've  got  one  after  all.  Not  very  big,  but  there's  " b"  enough  for  your  breakfast.  Let's  put  your  shoe  back  on,  and  then  we'll  see  if  there's  any  more.&quot;  There  was  nothing  on  the  next  hook,  orthe  next.  Then  Andrew,  who  had  moved  farther  along  the  line,  called  his  father  to  take  a  flounder  from  a  hook.  There  was  another  bream  on  the  hook  next  to  it,  and  a  sole  on  the  hook  after  that.  George  tore  the  fish  from  the  hooks  and  left  them  on  the  stones.  Time  and  again  he  parted  the  leathery  streamers  of  bladder  wrack  to  find  fish:  bass,  plaice,  and  little  skate,  as  well  as  bream  and  flounder.  George  worked  with  as  much  determination  as  when  he  had  dug  the  night  before-but  now  with  excitement  in  the  bright  morning  light,  and  the  sea  falling  away,  down  the  sands.  There  had  never  been  such  a  catch;  the  most  he'd  ever  had  be-     fore  from  a  hundred  hooks  was  sev-  enteen,  and  that  was  in  the  winter,  when  the  codling  teemed  all  along  the  coast.  He  counted  them  as  they  lay  in  their  fading  colors:  fifty-three.  He  picked  Andrew  up  and  swung  him  round.  It  was  incredible.  They'd  all  eat  themselves  silly.  When  the  fish  were  strung  through  the  gills  along  a  piece  of  the  line,  George  and  Andrew  walked  home,  leaving  the  tackle  and  fork  and  bait  box  behind.  They  went  into  the  house,  and  George  heaved  the  fish  from  over  his  shoulder  into  the  kitchen  sink.  He  made  Andrew  sit  in  the  fireside  chair  in  the  living  room  while  he  looked  in  the  bedroom  where  his  wife  was.  The  house  was  very  quiet;  George  began  to  feel  anxious  again,  remembering  the  quiet  of  the  house  the  day  after  his  brother  died  and  how  they  had  all  slumped  on  their  beds,  not  moving,  not  speaking.  He  opened  the  door  a  few  inches  and  saw  his  mother  fast  asleep  in  the  corner  where  he  had  put  her  bed.  Then  there  was  Edie,  looking  at  him.  &quot;Hello,  George,  is  you?  Come  in.&quot;  &quot;Edie.&quot;  She  knew  who  he  was.  But  she  still  looked  frightening.  Her  hair  was  wet,  stranded  with  sweat.  He  knelt  by  the  bed  and  looked  into  her  haggard  face.  &quot;George,  you're  not  to  ex-  cite  her.&quot;  It  was  his  mother,  getting  out  of  bed.  &quot;The  doc-  tor  says  she's  got  to  be  kept  quiet.  Andrew,  what're  you  doing  in  here?&quot;  George  turned  and  saw  his  son  looking  atthe  new  baby  in  the  cradle  beside  him.  An-  drew's  eyes  stared  wildly  as  he  smiled.  There  was  blood  and  the  glinting  scales  of  fish  on  the  sleeve  of  his  coat,  and  his  face  and  hands  and  legs  were  dirty.  He  looked  away  from  the  cradle  and  came  toward  his  mother  a  few  steps  until  his  granny  held  him  back.  &quot;Andrew,  you  smell  to  high  heaven.  George,  you  should've  kept  him  out.  By  God,what  a  night  we  had  with  her.  She  was  tugging  at  the  sheets,  shouting  at  the  doctor,  punch-  ing  me.  I  never  thought  she'd  manage  to  hold  on.  It  was  like  as  if  she  was  trying  to  lift  something  too  heavy  for  her.  Good  job  the  doctor  made  you  two  go  round  to  Alice's.  If  it  hadn't  been  for  that  man's  hard  work,  she'd  never  have  come  through.  She  hung  on.  Something  ofa  miracle,  if  you  ask  me.&quot;  George  stayed  kneeling  by  the  bed  while  his  mother  took  Andrew  out  into  the  kitchen.  &quot;Is  it  ours?  Can  we  keep  it?&quot;  he  heard  the  boy  say.  "