  THE  EXPLANATION  e  Do  you  believe  that  this  ma-  \xc2\xae  chine  could  be  helpful  in  changing  the  government?  A:  Changing  the  government  ...  Q:  Making  it  more  responsive  to  the  needs  of  the  people?  A:  I  don't  know  what  it  is.  What  does  it  do?  Q:  Well,  look  at  it.     A:  It  offers  no  clues.  Q:  It  has  a  certain  .  ..  reticence.  A:  I  don't  know  what  it  does.  Q:  A  lack  of  confidence  in  the  ma-  chine?  Q:  Is  the  novel  dead?  A:  Oh  yes.  Very  much  so.  Q:  What  replaces  it?  A:  I  should  think  that  it  is  replaced  by  what  existed  before  it  was  invent-  ed.  Q:  The  same  thing?  A:  The  same  sort  of  thing.  Q:  Is  the  bicycle  dead?  Q:  You  don't  trust  the  machine?  A:  Why  should  Itrust  it?  Q:  (States  his  own  lack  of  interest  in  machines)  Q:  What  a  beautiful  sweater.  A:  Thank  you.  I  don't  want  to  worry  about  machines.  Q:  What  do  you  worry  about?  A:  I  was  standing  on  the  corner  waiting  for  the  light  to  change  when  I  noticed,  across  the  street  among  the  people  there  waiting  for  the  light  to  change,  an  extraordinarily  handsome  girl  who  was  looking  at  me.  Our  eyes  met,  I  looked  away,  then  I  looked  again,  she  was  looking  away,  the  light  changed.  I  moved  into  the  street  as  did  she.  First  I  looked  at  her  again  to  see  if  she  was  still  looking  at  me,  she  wasn't  but  I  was  aware  that  she  was  aware  of  me.  I  decided  to  smile.  I  smiled  but  in  a  curious  way-the  smile  was  supposed  to  convey  that  I  was  interested  in  herbut  also  that  I  was  aware  that  the  situation  was  funny.  But  I  bungled  it.  I  smirked.  I  dislike  even  the  word  &quot;smirk.&quot;  There  was,  you  know,  the  moment  when  we  passed  each  other.  I  had  resolved  to  look  at  her  directly  in  that  moment.  I  tried  but  she  was  looking  a  bit  to  the  left  of  me,  she  was  looking  fourteen  inches  to  the  left  of  my  eyes.  Q:  This  is  the  sort  of  thing  that  A:  I  want  to  go  back  and  do  it  again.     Q:  Now  that  you've  studied  it  for  a  bit,  can  you  explain  how  it  works?  A:  Of  course.  (Explanation)  Q:  Is  she  still  removing  her  blouse?  A:  Yes,  still.  Q:  Do  you  want  to  have  your  picture  taken  with  me?  A:  I  don't  like  to  have  my  picture  taken.  Q:  Do  you  believe  that,  at  some  point  in  the  future,  one  will  be  able  to  achieve  sexual  satisfaction,  &quot;complete&quot;  sexual  satisfaction,  for  instance  by  tak-  ing  a  pill?  A:  I  doubt  that  it's  impossible.  Q:  You  don't  like  the  idea.  A:  No.  I  think  that  under  those  conditions,  we  would  know  less  than  we  do  now.  Q:  Know  less  about  each  other.  A:  Of  course.  Q:  It  has  beauties.  A:  The  machine.  Q:  Yes.  We  construct  these  ma-  chines  not  because  we  confidently  ex-  pect  them  to  do  what  they  are  de-  signed  to  do-change  the  government  in  this  instance-but  because  we  intuit  a  machine,  out  there,  glowing  like  a  shopping  center.  ...  A:  You  have  to  contend  with  a  history  of  success.  Q:  Which  has  gotten  us  nowhere.  A:  (Extends  consolation)  U  Q:  What  did  you  do  then?  A:  I  walked  on  a  tree.  For  twenty  steps.  MAY  4,  19  6  8  Q:  What  sort  of  tree?  A:  A  dead  tree.  I  can't  tell  one  from  another.  It  may  havebeen  an  oak.  I  was  reading  a  book.  Q:  What  was  the  book?  A:  I  don't  know,  I  can't  tell  one  from  another.  They're  not  like  films.  With  films  you  can  remem-  ber,  at  a  minimum,  who  the  actors  were.  ...  Q:  What  was  she  doing?  A:  Removing  her  blouse.  Eating  an  apple.  Q:  The  tree  must  have  been  quite  large.  A:  The  tree  must  have  been  quite  large.  Q:  Where  was  this?  A:  Near  the  sea.  I  had  rope-soled  shoes.  Q:  I  have  a  number  of  error  mes-  sages  d  like  to  introduce  here  and  I'd  like  you  to  study  them  care-  fully  ...  they're  numbered.  IPH  go  over  them  with  you:  undefined  vari-  able  ...  improper  sequence  of  opera-  tors  ...  improper  use  of  hierarchy  ...  missing  operator  ...  mixed  mode,  that  one's  particularly  grave  ...  argument  of  a  function  is  fixed-point  ...  improp-  er  character  in  constant  ...  improper  fixed-point  constant  ..  .  improper  float-  ing-point  constant  ...  invalid  charac-  ter  transmitted  in  sub-program  state-  ment,  that's  a  bitch  ...  no  END  state-  ment.  A:  I  like  them  very  much.  Q:  There  are  hundreds  of  others,  hundreds  and  hundreds.  A:  You  seem  emotionless.  Q:  That's  not  true.  A:  To  what  do  your  emotions  ...  adhere,  if  I  can  put  it  that  way?  Q:  (Long  explanation)  Q:  Do  you  see  what  she  is  doing?  A:  Removing  her  blouse.  Q:  How  does  she  look?  A:  ..  .  Self-absorbed.  Q:  Are  you  bored  with  the  ques-  tion-and-answer  form?  A:  I  am  bored  with  it  but  I  realize  that  it  permits  many  valuable  omis-  sions:  what  kind  of  day  it  is,  what  I'm  wearing,  what  I'm  thinking.  That's  a  very  considerable  advantage,  I  would  say.  Q:  I  believe  in  it.  Q:  She  sang  and  we  listened  to  her.  A:  I  was  speaking  to  a  tourist.  Q:  Their  chair  is  here.  " b"THE  NEW  YORKER  A:  I  knocked  at  the  door;  it  was  shut.  (Q:  The  soldiers  marched  toward  the  castle.  A:  I  had  a  watch.  Q:  He  has  struck  me.  A:  I  have  struck  him.  Q:  Their  chair  is  here.  A:  We  shall  not  cross  the  river.  Q:  The  boats  are  filled  with  water.  A:  His  father  willstrike  him.  Q:  Filling  his  pockets  with  fruit.  e  TmE  face  ...the  machine  has  be  a  face.  This  panel  here  ...  A:  That  one?  Q:  Just  as  the  human  face  devel-  oped  .  ..  from  fish  ...  it's  traceable,  from,  say,  the  .  ..  The  first  mouth  was  that  of  a  jellyfish.  I  can't  remember  the  name,  the  Latin  name.  ...  But  a  mouth,  there's  more  to  it  than  just  a  mouth,  a  mouth  alone  is  not  a  face.  It  went  on  up  through  the  sharks  .  ..  A:  Up  through  the  sharks  .  ..  (Q:  ...  to  the  snakes.  ...  A:  Yes.  Q:  The  face  has  three  main  func-  tions,  detection  of  desirable  energy  direction  of  the  locomotor  machinery  toward  its  goal,  and  cap-  ture.  ...  A:  Yes.  Q:  Capture  and  preliminary  prepa-  ration  of  food,  Is  this  too  .  ..  A:  Not  a  bit.  Q:  The  face,  a  face,  also  serves  as  a  lure  in  mate  acquisition.  The  broad,  forwardly  directed  nose--  A:  I  don't  see  that  on  the  panel.  Q:  Look  at  it.  sources,     A:  I  don't-  Q:  There  is  an  analogy,  believe  it  or  not.  The  ...we  use  industrial  de-  signers  to  do  the  front  panels,  the  con-  trols.  Designers,  artists.  To  make  the  machines  attractive  to  potential  buyers.  Pure  cosmetics.  They  told  us  that  knife  switches  were  masculine.  Men  felt  ...So  we  used  a  lot  of  knife  switches.  ...     A:  What's  this  one  used  for?  Q:  It's  part  of  the  process.  We  had  a  lot  of  trouble  with  that  one,  the-  A:  I  know  that  a  great  deal  has  been  written  about  all  this  but  when  I  come  across  such  articles,  in  the  maga-  zines  or  in  a  newspaper,  I  don't  read  them.  I'm  not  interested.  Q:  What  are  your  interests?  A:  I'm  a  director  of  the  Schumann  Festival.  o  Q:  What  is  she  doing  now?  A:  Taking  off  her  jeans.  Q:  Has  she  removed  her  blouse?  A:  No,  she's  still  wearing  her  blouse.  Q:  A  yellow  blouse?  A:  Blue.  Q:  Well,  what  is  she  doing  now?  A:  Removing  her  jeans.  Q:  What  is  she  wearing  under-  neath?  A:  Pants.  Panties.  Q:  But  she's  still  blouse?  A:  Yes.  Q:  Has  she  removed  her  panties?  A:  Yes.  Q:  Still  wearing  the  blouse?  A:  Yes.  She's  walking  along  a  log.  Q:  In  her  blouse.  Is  she  reading  a  book?  A:  No.  She  has  sunglasses.  Q:  She's  wearing  sunglasses?  A:  Holding  them  in  her  hand.  Q:  How  does  she  look?  A:  Quite  beautiful.  wearing  her  Q:  You  don't  trust  the  machine?  A:  Why  should  I  trust  it?  (Q:  What  is  the  content  of  Maocism?  45  A:  The  content  of  Maoism  is  pu-  rity.  Q:  Is  purity  quantifiable?  A:  Purity  has  never  been  quantifi-  able.  Q:  What  is  the  incidence  of  purity  worldwide?  A:  Purity  occurs  in  .004  per  cent  of  all  cases.  Q:  What  is  purity  in  the  pure  state  often  consonant  with?  A:  Purity  in  the  pure  state  is  often  consonant  with  madness.  Q:  This  is  not  to  denigrate  mad-  ness.  A:  This  is  not  to  denigrate  mad-  ness.  Madness  in  the  pure  state  offers  an  alternative  to  the  reign  ofright  reason.  Q:  What  is  the  content  of  right  reason?  A:  The  content  of  right  reason  is  rhetoric.  (Q:  And  the  content  of  rhetoric?  A:  The  content  of  rhetoric  is  pu-  rity.  Q:  Is  purity  quantifiable?  A:  Purity  is  not  quantifiable.  It  is  inflatable.  Q:  How  is  our  rhetoric  preserved  against  attacks  by  other  rhetories?  A:  Our  rhetoric  is  preserved  by  our  elected  representatives.  In  the  fat  of  their  heads.  Q:  There's  no  point  in  arguing  that  the  machine  is  wholly  successful,  but  it  has  its  qualities.  I  don't  like  to  use  anthropomorphic  language  in  talk-  ing  about  these  machines,  but  there  is  one  quality  ...  A:  What  is  it?  Q:  It's  brave.  A:  There's  not  much  bravery  in  art  now.  Q:  Since  the  death  of  the  bicycle.  e  THERE  are  ten  rules  for  oper-  \xc2\xae  ating  the  machine.  The  first  rule  is  turn  it  on.  A:  Turn  it  on.  Q:  The  second  rule  is  convert  the  terms.  The  third  rule  is  rotate  the  inputs.  The  fourth  rule  is  you  have  made  a  serious  mistake.  A:  What  do  I  do?  Q:  You  send  the  appropriate  error  message.  A:  I  will  never  remember  these  rules.  Q:  Pll  repeat  them  a  hundred  times.  A:  I  was  happier  before.  Q:You  imagined  it.  " b" A:  The  issues  are  not  real.  Q:  The  issues  are  not  real  in  the  sense  that  they  are  touchable.  The  issues  raised  here  are  equivalents.  Rea-  sons  and  conclusions  exist  although  they  exist  elsewhere,  not  here.  Rea-  sons  and  conclusions  are  in  the  air  and  simple  to  observe  even  for  those  who  do  not  have  the  leisure  to  con-  sult  orlearn  to  read  the  publications  of  the  specialized  disciplines.  A:  The  situation  bristles  with  dif-  ficulties.  Q:  The  situation  bristles  with  diffi-  culties  but  in  the  end  young  people  and  workers  will  live  on  the  same  plane  as  old  people  and  government  officials,  for  the  mutual  good  of  all  categories.  The  phenomenon  of  masses,  in  follow-  ing  the  law  of  high  numbers,  makes  possible  exceptional  and  rare  events,  which-  A:  I  called  her  then  and  told  her  that  I  had  dreamed  about  her,  that  she  was  naked  in  the  dream,  that  we  were  making  love.  She  didn't  wish  to  be  dreamed  about,  she  said-  not  now,  not  later,  not  ever,  when  would  I  stop.  I  suggested  that  it  was  something  over  which  I  had  no  control.  She  said  that  it  had  all  been  a  long  time  ago  and  that  she  was  married  to  William  now,  as  I  knew,  and  that  shedidn't  want...  irrup-  tions  of  this  kind.  Think  of  William,  she  said.  &amp;  Q:  He  has  struck  me.  A:  I  have  struck  him.  Q:  We  have  seen  them.  A:  I  was  looking  at  the  window.  Q:  Their  chair  is  here.  A:  She  sang  and  we  listened  to  her.  Q:  Soldiers  marching  toward  the  castle.  A:  I  spoke  toa  tourist.  Q:  I  knocked  at  the  door.  A:  We  shall  not  cross  the  river,.  Q:  The  river  has  filled  the  boats  with  water.  A:  I  think  that  I  have  seen  herwith  my  uncle.  Q:  Getting  into  their  motorcar,  I  heard  them.  A:  He  will  strike  her  if  he  has  lost  It.  A  (concluding):  There's  no  doubt  in  my  mind  thatthe  ballplayers  today  are  the  greatest  ever.  They're  brilliant  athletes,  extremely  well  coordinated,  tremendous  in  every  department.  The  ballplayers  today  are  so  magnificent  that  scoring  is  a  relatively  simple  thing  for  them.  Q:  Thank  you  for  confiding  in  me.  Q:  ...  show  you  a  picture  of  my  daughter.     A:  Very  nice.  Q:  I  can  give  you  a  few  references  for  further  reading.  A:  (Weeps)  Q:  What  is  she  doing  now?  A:  There  is  a  bruise  on  her  thigh.  The  right. "