 b"SHORTLY  before  my  mother  died, a  friend  came  up  to  me  on  the  street  and  said  she  had  been  by  something  my  mother  told  her.  (My  friend  is  a  lapsed  Cath-  olic  and  very  shockable  in  reverse;  it  is  religious  conceptions,  and  not  the  lack  of  them,  that  offend  her.)  What  my  mother  had  said  was  that  she  found  the  developments  of  the  space  age  profoundly  distressing,  since  they  demonstrated  to  her  incontro-  vertibly  that  Heaven  was  not  out  there,  hence  that  my  father  could  not  be  in  it,  hence  that  she  would  not  meet  him  there,  as  she  had  always  hoped  to  do.  One  reason  this  confession  shocked  my  friend  may  have  been  that  my  mother  always  looked  so  urbane  and  sophisticated  that  people  couldn't  grasp  her  special  brand  of  innocence.  She  looked  like  agreat  lady  who  has  been  everywhere  and  done  everything,  who  knows  everything,  and  whom  nothing  can  shock.  Actually,  she  was  often  shocked.  She  cancelled  her  subscription  to  Life  on  account  of  what  she  consid-  ered  its  salacious  photographs.  When  I  was  young,  one  of  my  many  attempts  at  reforming  her  used  to  consist  in  tell-  ing  her  about  any  friends  of  mine  who  strayed  from  the  paths  of  virtue.  I  hoped  by  this  means  to  accustom  her  to  the  modern  world.  But  she  would  only  flush.  &quot;How  dis-  gusting!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  Much  later  it  dawned  on  me  that  nevertheless  she  never  turned  against  anybody  whose  behavior  had  thus  of-  fended  her.  At  the  time,  this  only  seemed  to  me  an  evidence  of  inconsist-  ency.  &quot;If  you  thought  Daphne  was  so  awful  going  off  to  Barbados,  what  are  you  being  so  nice  to  her  for?&quot;  I  said  to  her  after  a  party.  &quot;But  I'm  fond  of  Daphne,&quot;  she  said,  puzzled.  For  the  most  part,  she  would  not  recognize  the  possibility  of  error  in  those  whom  she  admired.  Men  who  were  gentle  and  feminine,  for  in-  stance,  she  considered  merely  sen-  sitive-the  way  a  man  ought  tobe.  If,  in  my  passion  for  her  enlighten-  ment,  I  suggested  anything  other,  she  would  repulse  the  suggestion.  &quot;I  don't  believe  it,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;There  couldn't  be  anything  so  disgusting.&quot;  Above  all,  she  held  my  father  and  my  father's  family  perfect.  I  always  knew  she  loved  and  revered  them,  but  I  didn't  really  take  in  the    extent  of  what  she  felt  until  near  the  end  of  her  life.  &quot;It  must  have  been  awfully  hard  on  Papa,  being  his  father's  [REDACTED];  I  happened  to  say.  (My  grandfather  was  Edward  EverettHale.)  &quot;Yes,  having  a  famous  father  is  hard  on  the  children,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  I  mean  Grandpa  was  so  domi-  nating.  It  seems  to  me  he  wanted  to  be  Jehovah  and  have  everybody  else  do  what  he  wanted.  Look  how  exhausted  Grandmamma  was.&quot;  My  mother  cried  out.  When  she  cried  out,  you  could  see  how  heroines  in  novels  of  the  last  century  had  been  intended  to  look.  Her  lovely  face  flushed,  her  eyes  looked  stricken,  and  her  hands  flew  up  like  birds  from  what-  ever  they  were  doing.  &quot;You  never  knew  your  grandfather  or  you  couldn't  say  anything  so  dreadfully  untrue!&quot;  &quot;He  must  have  had  some  faults,&quot;  I  insisted.  &quot;Everybody  has  faults.&quot;  &quot;Your  grandfather  didn't,&quot;  she  said  positively.  &quot;Or  your  grandmother.  Nei-  ther  did  your  Aunt  Nelly.  The  Hales  didn't  have  any  faults.&quot;  In  actual  cases  of  lesser,  peccant  humanity,  my  mother  was  gentle  and  forgiving.  The  first  person  ever  de-  puted  to  take  me  walking,  for  instance,  was-not  a  nurse,  of  course,  in  our  impoverished  artist's  family,  but  a  rav-  ishing,  subtly  beautiful  girl,  during  rest  periods  in  posing  for  my  mother.  This  was  Carrie,  a  [REDACTED]  artists'  model.  Her  beauty  was  recherch\xc3\xa9:  coppery,  clinging  hair,  naughty  eves,  bee-stung  upper  lip,  tiptilted  nose.  My  recollection  of  her  is  of  a  wild  and  lively  spirit  walking  beside  me  up  Sandy  Valley  Road,  who  called  the  stones  in  the  road  dragon's  teeth,  and  led  me  into  a  deep-  green,  flower-starred  clearing  in  the  woods  and  named  it  the  secret  garden.  Carrie's  presence  in  the  house  where  I  grew  up  was  the  last  holdover  from  my  parents'  life  in  their  [REDACTED]  studio,  before  their  decision  to  bring  up  their  expected  child-me-in  the  country.  My  childhood  was  enlivened  by  rendi-     tions  of  the  music-hall  songs  and  the  Yiddish  or  Irish  jokes  that  she  used  to  sing  and  tell  them  while  posing  in  the  old  days.  My  father  used  to  say  that  if  someone  took  her  to  an  opera  or  a  musical  comedy,  she  would  come  to  the  studio  next  day  and  sing  the  whole  score.  He  said  she  might  have  sung  professionally,  only  she  could  never  afford  the  training.  When  my  mother  moved  her  studio  to  the  country,  such  was  their  old  at-  tachment  that  for  several  years  Carrie  used  to  come  all  the  way  out  from  town  to  pose  for  her.  It  meant  half  an  hour's  train  trip,  and  a  mile  walk  from  the  station.  Then,  when  I  was  about  six,  she  disappeared  from  our  lives.  I  was  told  she  got  fat.  Even  to  a  child  it  seemed  incredible-that  wildwood  creature!  Years  later,  when  I  was  grown  up,  I  learned  why  she  got  fat  and  ofthe  ensuing  responsibilities  that  stopped  her  posing.  My  mother  told  me  about  it  in  a  tentative,  deprecatory  way.  &quot;Poor  Carrie,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;She  couldn't  with-  stand  that  dreadful  man.&quot;  Carrie's  fate  seemed  to  cause  no  conflict  in  my  mother's  mind,  however,  with  the  prin-  ciple  she  held-that  it  was  disgusting  to  think  there  was  ever  anything  ques-  tionable  about  artists'  models.  Models  were  wonderful,  she  said-high-spirit-  ed  girls  with  the  gumption  to  make  their  own  living.  And  I  remember  her  showing  me,  with  a  serious,  exalted  expression,  a  re-  production  of  Ingres's  &quot;La  Source,&quot;  and  impressing  upon  me  that  the  nude  is  something  beautiful,  pure,  and  essen-  tial  to  art.It  was  evident  from  the  way  she  spoke  that  other  people  thought  otherwise.  Other  people  meant  lay-  men.  In  the  world  I  grew  up  in,  lay-  men  represented  the  devil.  There  was  the  world-wide,  ravishing,  and  infi-  nitely  paintable;  there  were  the  artists,  who  painted  the  world  in  all  its  beauty  and  no  more  saw  evil  in  it  than  a  child  would;  and  then  there  were  laymen.  The  sniggering,  the  smutty  jokes,  the  innuendoes  about  artists'  models  and  the  nude  all  came  from  laymen.  Lay-  men  as  a  class  not  only  didn't  know  anything  about  art  but  didn't  want  to-they  scorned  art.  Since  art  was  highest  on  the  scale  of  all  existing  values,  the  idea  that  anybody  could  look  down  on  it,  however  mistakenly,  made  another  convolution  in  the  complicated  bal-  ancing  act  that,  as  the  child  of  art-  ists,  I  had  to  perform.  Five  mornings  a  week,  my  father  and  I  went  down  to  the  village  after  breakfast,  he  to  the  station  and  " b"I  to  school,  and  as  I  walked  along  be-  side  him  he  used  to  tell  me  stories  of  his  [REDACTED]  days.  His  own  father,  a  Unitarian  minister,  did  not  stretch  liberalism  so  far  as  to  underwrite  the  education  in  painting  of  this  only  son  of  his  not  to  go  to  Harvard.  Once  my  father  made  the  decision  to  go  to  [REDACTED],  he  was  left  to  his  own  devices.  He  supported  him-  self  there  almost  wholly  by  copying  Old  Masters;  it  brought  a  certain  in-  come  from  tourists  who  wanted  to  take  a  picture  home  from  Europe  without  paying  very  much  for  it.  He  stayed  a  long  time  in  [REDACTED].  A  photograph  of  him  at  that  time  shows  him  lounging  sidewise  in  a  chair;  his  head  is  thrown  back  dashingly,  but  his  eyes  are  anxious.  He  must  have  felt  he  Aad  to  be  a  suc-  cess,  after  staking  his  judgment  against  the  Jovian  one.  When  he  came  back  to  [REDACTED],  about  1895,  a  show  of  his  paintings  at  Durand-Ruel's  caused  a  sensation  with  their  pure  Impression-  ism.  He  never  followed  up  his  New  York  success,  however.  He  went  back  to  [REDACTED].  I  loved  his  evocations  of  a  life,  care-  free  in  its  poverty-strickenness,  among  the  camaraderie  of  the  ateliers,  the  caf\xc3\xa9s,  the  hole-in-the-wall  lodgings  of  the  Left  Bank.  My  father  lived  with  two  friends,  in  the  Rue  des  Saints-P\xc3\xa9res,  in  a  garret  reached  by  a  ladder  nailed  against  the  wall,  up  which  he  professed  to  have  been  able  to  climb  carrying  a  lighted  lamp  and  a  pitcher  of  water.  &quot;Philippe!&quot;  one  of  his  friends  would  roar.  &quot;V  oulez-vous  apporter  moi  Peau  chaud  ou  voulex-vous  nong?&quot;  Since  my  father  was  in  [REDACTED]  during  the  eighties  and  nineties,  those  stories  of  his  were  much  like  the  life  in  &quot;Trilby&quot;  and  &quot;La  Boheme.&quot;  When  I  got  older  and  read  the  du  Maurier  book  and  heard  the  opera,  it  was  with  an  almost  personal  nostalgia.  &quot;O  soave  fanciulla&quot;  brought  back  a  life  of  youth  and  courage,  at  one  remove  from  my  own,  it  is  true,  but  such  a  slight  remove  as  to  be  the  merest  tissue:  the  distinction  between  my  fa-  ther  and  myself.  I  knew,  although  I  was  a  child,  or  perhaps  because  I  was  a  child,  that  there  was  something  naughty  about  that  life  that  was  delightful  too.  My  father  often  told  me  stories  that  needed  some  explanation.  Sometimes  it  was  only  the  French  that  needed  explaining.  In  a  song  that  he  said  was  a  favorite  with  the  students,  La  peinture  &amp;  P  huile  Cost  bien  difficile,  Mais  cest  bien  plus  beau  Quer  la  peinture  &amp;  Peau,  &quot;peinture,&quot;  a  feminine  noun,  really  required  the  adjective  &quot;belle&quot;  in  the  third  line,  but  did  not  get  it  because  of  the  rhyme.  Years  later,  I  came  upon  the  old,  ungrammatical  student  song  in  Jean  Renoir's  book  about  his  father.  Quite  another  type  of  explanation  was  required  by  a  song  like  Connaissez-vous  la  rosi\xc3\xa9re,  La  rosi\xc3\xa9re  de  chez  nous?  De  trois  bimbims  elle  est  m\xc3\xa9re,  La  rosi\xc3\xa9re;  Elle  n'a  jamais  un  \xc3\xa9poux,  La  rosi\xc3\xa9re  de  chez  nous.  Here  the  joke  was  that  although  &quot;rostere&quot;'  meant  the  village  virgin,  the  virgin  of  our  village  was  different  from  most,  what  with  three  little  bastards.  When  my  father  sang  those  songs,  told  those  stories  walking  down  the  hill  in  the  morning,  his  face  lit  up  with  laughter  and  his  eyes  sparkled.  I  had  the  strong  feeling  that  he  was  poised  for  flight.  At  any  moment  he  might  take  off,  leave  my  mother  and  me  for  that  life  I  imagined  on  the  other  side  of  the  world.  But  thenhe  would  look  down  at  me  and  say,  &quot;Don't  you  think  so,  old  girl?&quot;  and  I  knew  he  was  stay-  ing.  Each  time  it  was  a  fresh  relief.  At  the  same  time,  I  was  well  aware  that  my  father  would  do  anything  I  wanted.  Once  as  we  were  walking  along  I  was  taken  by  a  wild  flower-a  cardinal  flower  growing  in  a  bog  on  the  other  side  of  the  fence-and  my  father,  in  his  clothes  for  going  to  town  and  his  hard  straw  hat,  lay  down  on  his  stom-  ach  on  the  tar  sidewalk,  reached  under  the  fence,  and  got  it  for  me.  From  other  stories,  heard  with  a  half  of  my  mind  that  was  ignorant  of  the  jokes,  I  knew  my  father  had  been  an  exemplary  son,  not  only  to  his  cele-  brated  and  overwhelming  father  but  to  his  mother.  My  mother  told  me  once  with  pride  that  when  my  father  went  out  into  the  world  he  promised  his  mother  he  would  keep  himself  pure  for  his  future  wife.  In  the  same  compart-  ment  as  this  information  were  stories  of  my  father's  growing  up  in  a  minister's  household  in  Roxbury,  even  then  turn-  ing  into  a  slum.  [REDACTED]  little  boys  wore  plaid  skirts,  something  like  kilts,  till  they  were  quite  big.  There  is  a  photograph  of  my  father,  aged  about  six,  dressed  in  such  a  skirt,  with  blond  curls  and  a  look  of  deep,  brooding  sadness  in  his  eyes.  That  must  havebeen  about  when  he  was  tormented  by  the  little  tough  boys  of  Roxbury,  who  used  to  call  &quot;Hello,  sis!&quot;  when  he  came  out.  After  years  of  begging  his  mother  to  let  him  start  " b"wearing  breeches  he  was  finally  given  a  pair,  and  in  them  marched  proudly  out  into  the  street,  only  to  be  met  with  &quot;Hello,  sis  with  trousers  on!&quot;  To  believe  two  mutually  exclusive  things  requires  nothing  but  practice.  When  I  myself  went  out  into  the  world  of  New  York,  it  seemed  perfect-  ly  possible  to  navigate  on  the  belief  that  my  father  had  been  the  life  of  the  Left  Bank  while  still  accepting  that  he  was  pure  as  the  driven  snow.  Both  aspects  of  this  agreeable  proposition  were  es-  sential.  I'd  found  that  a  father  who  had  studied  in  [REDACTED]  under  Lef\xc3\xa9bre  and  Doucet,  who  had  lived  the  old  vie  de  boheme,  was  a  great  asset  in  my  back-  ground.  When  I  was  in  another  mood,  like  everyone  else  on  earth  I  needed  my  father  who  was  good.  I  was  well  into  my  twenties,  mar-  ried,  and  separated  from  my  husband  before  this  image  began  to  come  apart.  I  had  a  beau  whose  dry  wit  and  ironic  cast  of  thought  reminded  me  of  my  father's.  To  keep  my  conversational  end  up,  I  used  my  father's  jokes  in  talking  to  Oliver.  I  seemed  to  remem-  ber  everything  my  father  ever  said  to  me,  as  though  I  had  inherited  my  rep-  artee.  I  also  told  Oliver  stories  about  my  father.  He  said  he  wished  he  knew  him.  One  weekend,  my  father  came  down  to  New  York  to  pay  my  year-old  baby  a  visit.  I  asked  Oliver  to  come  for  lunch  on  Sunday.  My  father,  who  never  took  but  the  minimum  time  off  from  painting,  left  [REDACTED]  on  the  mid-  night  train  and  arrived  Sunday  morn-  ing.  When  I  went  to  meet  him,  away  from  the  familiar  environs  of  my  visits  home,  it  was  a  terrible  shock.  Old,  gray,  stooped,  he  seemed  so  ternmbly  tired.  I  never  knew  that  was  how  he  looked.  It  was  like  one  image  superim-  posed  upon  another  that  doesn't  fit.  I  felt  he  must  need  fresh  air,  and  took  him  for  a  long  walk  up  York  Avenue,  When  Oliver  came,  the  conversation  was  not  at  all  what  I  had  imagined.  Nothing  either  of  them  said  was  es-  pecially  funny.  They  did  not  spark  each  other  to  wit.  They  were  subdued,  re-  signed.  If  they  were  caustic,  it  was  sad-  ly.  After  we  finished  lunch,  my  baby  was  brought  in  from  his  nap  and  sat,  a  great,  rosy,  goggling  peony,  on  his  grandfather's  knee.  Oliver  sat  opposite  them,  smoking  innumerable  cigarettes.  &quot;'That's  a  nice  baby,&quot;he  said.  &quot;A  very  nice  baby,&quot;  my  father  said,  and  to  his  pink  grandson,  &quot;Hello,  job  lots.&quot;  The  next  week,  when  I  went  out  to  dinner  with  Oliver,  I  told  him  how  sorry  I  was  my  father  wasn't  in  good     form  on  Sunday-I  thought  he'd  looked  exhausted.  And  I  had  so  wanted  him  to  be  at  his  best!  &quot;I  liked  him  the  way  he  [REDACTED];  Oli-  ver  said.  &quot;I'm  a  tired  man  myself.&quot;  But  my  father  was  not  merely  tired,  he  was  dving.  He  lived  only  a  week  or  two  after  that.  A  telegram  summoning  me  to  his  bedside  came  in  the  morn-  ing,  to  the  magazine  where  I  worked,  and  I  took  a  noon  trainto  [REDACTED].  He  was  dead  when  I  got  to  the  hospital,  from  peritonitis.  The  appendectomy  had  come  too  late,  after  his  resisting  seeing  a  doctor,  resisting  a  consultation  when  the  first  man  said  &quot;intestinal  grippe,&quot;  resisting  the  hospital-in  spite  of  his  agony-because  of  that  terrible  anxiety  of  his  that  something  might  stop  him  from  painting.  My  mother,  who  had  tried  her  best,  sat  in  a  small  private  room  of  the  hospital  waiting  for  me,  with  tears  pouring  down  her  flushed  cheeks.  I  secured  a  week's  leave  of  absence  to  clear  out  my  father's  studio.  The  day  after  the  funeral,  when  I  let  myself  in  by  the  door  on  the  balcony,  the  col-  ored  elevator  boy  was  roaming  around  downstairs;  also  a  slatternly  creature  who  for  years  had  maintained  the  fic-  tion  of  tidying  up,  though  what  with  her  corns  and  the  number  ofthings  my  father  didn't  want  disturbed,  black  grit  from  the  [REDACTED]  &amp;  [REDACTED]  Railroad,  on  the  other  side  of  the  vast  north  win-  dow,  always  lay  on  everything.  When  she  was  coming,  my  father  used  to  re-  mark,  &quot;We're  getting  the  feminine  touch  today.&quot;  One  of  his  studio  pupils,  a  talented  eight-year-old  girl,  misun-  derstood  him,  and  after  that  my  father,  delighted  by  what  the  pupil  thought  he'd  said,  called  the  cleaning  woman  Old  Cinnamon  Touch.  She  was  well  named.  She,  and  the  elevator  boys,  and  the  janitor,  as  well  as  several  indigent  painters,  used  to  bor-  row  money  from  my  father  with  no  in-  tention,  apparently,  of  paying  it  back.  He  could  never  refuse.  He  would  come  home  to  the  country,  one  corner  of  his  mouth  pulled  down  under  his  mustache  in  a  way  that  meant  life  seemed  espe-  cially  grim.  &quot;The  way  to  make  an  enemy  is  to  lend  him  money,&quot;  he  would  say.  Now  there  were  only  those  two  in  the  studio,  of  all  the  pupils  and  models,  the  other  painters  in  the  building,  the  paint  salesmen  who  insisted  on  showing  the  contents  of  their  suitcases  who  used  to  throng  the  place.  I  came  down  the  stairs  from  the  balcony.  &quot;Ah,  yours  is  the  terrible  loss,&quot;  Old  Cinnamon  Touch  said  lugubriously.  Soon  after,  she  and  the  elevator  boy  went  away.  When  I  got  back  to  New  York,  my  mother  wrote  me  that  some  of  the  best  pictures  were  missing,  as  well  as  quantities  of  paints,  brushes,  and  draw-  ing  paper.  The  studio  contained  the  accumula-  tion  of  forty  years,  and  I  had  no  idea  of  how  properly  to  go  about  organizing  such  amess.  Canvases  eight  or  ten  deep  leaned  against  the  walls.  Boxes  upon  boxes  of  dusty  pastels  lay  open  on  tables  invisible  under  the  load.  There  were  stacks  of  Saturday  Evening  Posts  run-  ning  back  to  1914.  Boxes  and  trunks  were  crammed  with  rumpled  costumes  for  models.  There  was  dirt  everywhere.  It  was  the  saddest  place  I  have  ever  been  in.  A  place  just  quitted  by  someone  be-  loved  does  not  merely  speak  of  the  per-  son.  It  is  the  person.  The  scent  of  my  father's  presence  was  in  the  air,  and  I  felt  in  precisely  the  same  relationship  with  that  air  as  I  had  withhim.  Isat  in  one  of  the  small  rooms  off  the  balcony,  trying  to  bring  order  into  his  old  bank  statements,  unopened  business  letters,  and  some  stock  certificates  I  had  hap-  pened  on-one  in  the  unused  fireplace,  I  remember,  otherwise  full  of  sketching  easels;  one  under  the  dirty  tub.  Beyond  the  door  lay  the  great,  mo-  tionless  space  of  the  two-story  studio  where  he  had  worked  so  unceasingly.  Now  and  then  the  boards  of  the  stair-  " b"case  would  creak,  as  they  used  to  creak  when  he  pounded  up  them  to  open  the  door.  Motes  of  dust  floated  along  a  beam  of  sunshine  from  the  unwashed  window  beside  me.  I  took  another  box  of  papers-a  small,  square  box-from  the  shelf  in  the  closet.  Even  while  I  was  sitting  down  again  to  open  it,  I  felt  a  thrill  of  foreboding.  This  is  the  fatal  box,  something  in  me  said.  Something  said,  Now  I  will  know.  My  heart  beat  fast-it  was  as  if,  all  my  life,  uncon-  sciously  I  had  been  waiting  for  this  moment  to  discover  the  secret  of  my  father.  Half  the  box  was  filled  with  a  sort  of  release,  written  in  my  father's  hand  and  signed  by  various  names,  some  of  which  I  recognized  as  those  of  old  models.  One  of  them  said,  &quot;Ihereby  state  that  my  mother  is  no  longer  in  need  of  medical  aid  and  I  will  no  long-  er  pretend  that  she  is.&quot;  All  of  them  said  something  like  &quot;I  promise  not  to  bother  Mr.  Hale  for  any  more  money.  ...I  have  received  full  and  sufficient  payment  for  my  services.&quot;  Underneath  these  was  an  erotic  love  poem,  written  in  my  father's  hand,  folded  and  worn  as  though  it  had  been  carried  in  a  billfold.  At  the  bottom  was  a  packet  of  letters  written  on  beautiful  gray  paper  with  a  crest  at  the  top  and  the  address-Palazzo  Borghese.  The  Roman  postmarks  on  the  envelopes  were  only  a  year  old.  &quot;My  dearest  Phil,&quot;  they  began.  &quot;I  can  never  tell  you  what  your  letter  means  to  me,&quot;  one  read.  &quot;Bless  you  for  it,  and  for  let-  ting  me  know  it  would  mean  some-  thing  to  you  to  hear  from  me.  Dear-  good  night.  I  feel  as  though  we  had  just  come  back  from  a  walk  at  Giverny.  Would  that  it  were  so!  After  all,  what  were  the  intervening  years  if  they  have  left  us  practically  unchanged?&quot;  And  another:  &quot;There  was  this-that  I  was  conscious  of-a  certain  grim  endur-  ance-a  suppressed  sadness,  that  wrung  my  heart.  I  may  be  wrong,  but  happy  you  didn't  seem  tobe.  You  are  so  brave,  so  uncomplaining,  so  selfless.&quot;  One  letter  said,  &quot;Your  love  for  your  daughter  and  hers  for  you  is  enough,  even  if  there  were  nothing  else  in  your  life  to  put  you  beyond  and  above  pity.&quot;  When  I  came  back  to  the  empty,  silent  studio  from  my  contemplation  of  theold  papers,  it  was  as  if  my  child-  hood's  equilibrium  had  been  hopelessly  shattered.  The  proposition  had  restated  itself  tragically.  HAVE  a  memorial  of  how  my  father's  studio  looked,  in  apainting  of  his  that  was  lost  from  sight  many  years,  found,  and  then  exhibited  in  the fiftieth-anniversary  re\xc3\xa9nactment  of  the  famous  1913  Armory  Show.  My  mother  got  a  letter,  one  summer  when  I  was  visiting  her  at  herhouseby  the  sea,  from  the  director  of  the  re\xc3\xa9nactment,  reminding  her  that  two  paintings  of  my  father's  had  been  in  the  original  show-one  of  a  group  of  students,  he  said,  the  other  a  nude.  The  director  needed  them  for  the  repeat  perform-  ance.  We  didn't  know  what  had  become  of  either  picture.  By  advertising  in  the  New  York  Times,  we  located  the  group  painting.  My  father  had,  char-  acteristically,  given  it  away-to  the  student  of  his  who,  all  these  years  later,  saw  and  answered  the  advertisement.  We  continued  to  look  for  the  other  pic-  ture.  The  director's  description  of  it  was  &quot;Nude  in  sunlit  studio.&quot;  My  moth-  er  remembered  such  a  composition,  but  I  couldn't.  Later  that  summer,  in  the  attic  where  my  father's  unsold  canvases  were  stacked,  I  came  on  the  picture  behind  some  old  frames.  I  recognized  it  from  the  description,  but  it  was  so  dirty  and  the  ripin  it  posed  such  an  imme-  diate  problem  of  restoring  thatI  didn't  get  any  particular  reaction  to  it.  The  following  spring,  my  mother  and  I  attended  the  gala  opening  of  the  Armory  Show.  Ladies  and  gentlemen     in  evening  dress  strolled  through  the  galleries  formed  by  partitioning  off  the  old  building  on  lower  [REDACTED]  Ave-  nue,  viewing  the  pictures  that  had  caused  such  a  stir  in  1913.  My  moth-  er's  du  Maurier  beauty  was  more  spectacular  than  ever  now  that  her  hair  was  snow  white.  She  looked  like  a  duchess,  and  was-as  usual  in  big  crowds-shy,  critical,  and  anxious  to  leave.  When  she  got  in  this  mood,  funny  things  were  apt  to  pop  into  her  head.  Standing  with  me  in  front  of  the  slatlike  cubes  of  the  famous  Duchamps  painting,  she  said,  &quot;When  that  was  first  shown,  it  looked  peculiar  even  to  us  artists.  Your  father  wrote  a  limerick  about  it.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  I  said.  She  recited:  &quot;If,  returning  from  one  of  your  bats,  You  expected  pink  cows  and  blue  rats,  But  a  lady,  quite  bare,  Descended  the  stair,  Now  wouldn't  that  rattle  your  slats  ?&quot;  &quot;\xc2\xa9You  appreciate  the  picture  now,  don't  you?&quot;  I  asked  severely.  The  urge  to  improve  one's  parents  never  wears  thin.  &quot;Oh,  I  like  it  better  than  most  " b"nudes,&quot;  she  said  airily.  &quot;All  those  fat,  pink  angleworms!&quot;  One  never  ceases  to  insist  on  meticu-  lous  consistency  from  them,  either.  &quot;You  always  taught  me  the  nude  was  beautiful,  and  that  it  was  benighted  to  think  anything  else,&quot;  I  reproached  her.  &quot;Did  1?&quot;  she  said.  I  strolled  away  to  look  atpictures  by  myself.  After  I  had  looked  at  my  father's  dark,  laughing  students  for  a  bit,  some  paintings  nearby  struck  me  afresh  with  the  perennial  Impressionist  miracle:  the  light  of  the  world  shattered  and  remade  in  the  eye.  My  father's  nude,  just  be-  yond,  was  also  pointillist-he  was  still  painting  in  his  French  manner.  In  these  public  surroundings,  the  picture  burst  upon  me  in  radiant  floods  of  light  as  if  I  had  never  seen  it  before.  Against  the  great  studio  window  Carrie  stands,  flourishing  a  gauzy  scarf  through  which  she  is  revealed,  posed  as  though  danc-  ing.  She  is  looking  down  at  her  feet;  her  face  is  hidden  by  a  pompadour  of  clinging,  coppery  hair.  Beyond  the  studio  window,  in  full  sunlight,  rises  the  pink  brick  steeple  of  a  church.  In-  side,  a  big  pier  glass  of  the  kind  painters  use  in  order  to  view  their  work  in  re-  verse  makes  a  balance  to  the  church  in  the  composition.  And  reflected  in  the  mirror-tiny,  tiny,  so  that  it  is  no  won-  der  the  director's  description  of  the  painting,  based  on  a  photograph,  didn't  include  it-stands  the  figure  of  my  father  painting  the  picture.  Even  so  minutely,  it  shows  the  father  I  knew  -his  characteristic  painting  stance,  legs  apart;  the  white  shirt,    sleeves  and  stiff  collar  he  always  wore;  the  walrus  mustache;  the  same  melan-  choly  eyes.  The  picture's  title  in  the  catalogue  was,  simply,  &quot;Nude,&quot;  but  suddenly  I  remembered-I  can't  imag-  ine  from  where;  it  must  have  been  from  earliest  childhood,  because  I  hadn't  even  remembered  the  picture-  that  my  father's  old,  joking  name  for  it  was  &quot;The  World,  the  Flesh,  and  the  Devil.&quot;  It  seemed  like  a  portrait  of  my  father.  Looking  at  the  sad  little  face  in  that  picture  full  ofsun,  I  was  able  at  last  to  admit  to  myself  that  my  father  had  really  not  been  a  gay  man  at  all  but  a  retiring  man  who  assumed  ebullience  to  cheer  himself  up,  and  to  get  along  in  a  world  he  hadno  instinct  to  over-  whelm.  The  things  in  his  life  he  picked  out  to  actually  do,  and  not  do,  prove  how  he  sought  and  clung  to  safety  in  the  bosom  of  his  tiny,  adoring  family.  When  he  needed  escape,  he  had  a  companion  to  escape  with;  for  when  I  used  to  get  the  feeling,  walking  down  the  hill,  that  he  was  poised  to  take  off  for  the  world  of  my  illusion  I  was  right.  We  did.  On  wings  of  recollec-  tion  we  flew  far  away.  Even  his  failure  to  set  the  world  on  fire  shows,  in  its  own  complicated,  wry  way,  how  my  father  did  after  all  fulfill  himself.  He  couldn't  have  really  wanted  fame  on  the  grand  scale  or  it  would  have  come  easier  to  him.  In  spite  of  all  that  batting  his  head  against  the  wall  of  success,  his  inward  nature  preserved  him  from  retaliating  against  his  father  and  be-  coming  like  him.  He  loved  the  art  of  painting,  and  what  he  really  wanted  was  to  be  at  home  quietly  with  my  mother.  &quot;AREN'T  you  ready  to  go  yet?&quot;  my  mother  said  when  I  rejoined  her  at  the  far  end  of  the  gallery.  &quot;Don't  you  want  to  look  at  Papa's  pictures  one  more  time?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  hate  to  go  away  and  leave  them.&quot;  &quot;I  know  every  picture  your  father  ever  painted  by  heart,&quot;  she  said.  Her  belief  was  always  that  my  father  was  perfect-a  great,  unappreciated  painter.  It  wasno  surprise  to  her  when,  toward  the  end  of  the  Armory  Show,  the  nude  was  bought  by  a  gentleman  from  the  Middle  West.  What  she  said  was  &quot;It's  about  time  somebody  had  a  look  at  all  that  wonderful  technical  skill.  All  that  training.  Nobody  has  any  training  nowadays.&quot;  I  had  beenabout  to  say  something  about  her  turning  against  nudes,  and  her  keeping  the  picture  up  in  the  attic  herself  for  thirty  years;  but  then,  sud-  denly,  in  the  middle  years  of  my  life,  it  dawned  on  me  I  might  not  know  about  both  sides  of  my  mother's  mind,  either. "