 b"IN  the  little  town,  in  the  dormitories,  the  girls  awaken  slowly  before  the  fanfare  of  the  alarm  and  before  they  quite  know  where  they  are,  be-  cause  no  one  that  young  ever  quite  be-  comes  accustomed  to  waking  up.  They  stare  at  the  clocks  for  help.  But  aclock  is  not  a  warm  and  friendly  thing  at  all;  it  is  cold  and  calculating,  and  facts  are  facts,  it  says-like  some  of  the  science  professors,  who  are  rumored  to  be  mar-  ried  but  can't  have  wives  and  children  at  home.  At  each  moment,  the  clock  has  just  one  statement  that  must  be  made:  This  is  the  time.  The  drowsy  conclusion  among  these  vague  young  pilgrims  is  that  it's  still  early,  too  soon  to  get  up.  Rain  rushes  across  the  roofs  of  the  buildings,  pours  down  their  sides,  slithers  on  the  windows,  babbles  in  the  gutters,  gurgles  in  the  drains,  gives  the  ivy  a  good  drubbing,  drowns  the  grass-in  fact,  establishes  its  territory,  insists  on  being  rain  and  here.  Having  sprung  from  thenight,  it  chooses  not  to  part  with  the  night  and  glazes  the  town  in  a  flimsy  darkness.  In  the  town,  lights  begin  to  go  on  in  the  windows  of  early  risers,  from  bedroom  to  bathroom  to  kitchen-little  yellow  lights  that  do  not  pretend  to  penetrate  the  darkness  but  are  more  like  framed  pictures  of  light.  A  dog  knocks  the  lid  off  a  gar-  bage  can,  and  there  is  chaos  in  the  alley.  The  girls  in  the  dormitories  allow  their  eyes  to  close  again,  not  quite  phrasing  a  wish  that  has  something  to  do  with  alwayshaving  a  blanket  to  keep  them  warm.  But  they  do  not  really  go  back  to  sleep.  For  some  of  the  girls-Lolly,  for  instance,  who,  by  the  way,  hasn't  even  stirred-this  is  the  first  year  away  from  home,  but  many  have  been  away  longer.  There  is  one  thing  they  are  all  beginning  to  learn  now  -that,  by  and  large,  weather  is  an  uncertain  thing.  Some  prefer  not  to  become  involved  in  such  knowledge,  and  some  find  it  ex-  citing;  all  of  them  will  pause  and  find  it  difficult  to  answer  true  or  false  if  a  statement  is  laid  before  them  that  (a)  tomorrow  will  be  fair,  or  (b)  tomor-  row  will  be  cloudy,  with  some  shower  activity.  Please  place  a  check  be-  side  your  answer.  Weathermen  are  always  apologizing,  or,  if  not  actually  apologizing-sayving,  &quot;Pardon  me  for  telling  you  that  today  would  be  fair&quot;-  at  least  trying  to  make  their  mistakes  seem  reasonable.  It  turns  out  that  a  weather  system  had  gone  awry;  a  low-  pressure  area  reversed  itself  or  some-  thing,  and  it  wasn't  anyone's  fault.  A  weatherman  will  never  come  right  out  and  admit  it-after  all,  they're  getting  paid  for  being  weathermen,  not  phi-  losophers.  He  will  not  say,  &quot;Of  course,  in  this  game  you  never  know,  but  my  educated  guess  is  that  tomorrow  will  be  a  great  day  for  a  picnic  if  it  doesn't  rain.&quot;  So  much  depends  on  the  weather  you'd  think  they  could  try  harder  to  be  accurate,  with  all  those  things  they  have  to  help  them-machinery,  and  equa-  tions,  and  think-boxes.  Yet  you  never  know  what  the  weather  will  be  until  it  is  here.  Although  the  girls  tend  to  be  guided  by  facts  and  are,  indeed,  factual  people,  particularly  in  irregular  verbs,  they  have  this  feeling  that  even  if  weather  may  be  predicted  itis  not  at  all  predictable,  and  that's  enough  to  keep  them  from  going  back  to  sleep.  The  rooms  are  quiet;  all  the  win-  dows  are  closed-well,  all,  that  is,  ex-  cept  Lolly's,  and  in  her  room  little  trickles  of  water  run  along  the  window-  sill  and  spatter  the  floor.  At  this  hour,  on  this  day,  the  only  commotion  is  out-  side,  where  the  weather  is,  and  the  girls  are  thinking  about  that;  if  they're  not  actually  thinking  about  it,  at  least  they  are  aware  of  it.  Looking  around,  you  see  books  turned  down  flat  on  desks,  opened  at  the  place  where  the  girls  had  stopped  reading  the  night  before,  too  pooped  to  read  another  word,  with  just  enough  energy  left  to  drink  a  mug  of  instant  coffee  made  with  hot  water  from  the  bathroom  tap,  put  up  their  hair,  and  flop  into  bed.  They  know  that  books  shouldn't  be  left  open  like  that-  it  breaks  their  spines,  a  book  is  to  treas-  ure.  Of  course,  there  are  some  closed  books  in  a  few  of  the  rooms,  closed  by  girls  who  are  serious  and  treat  books   with  respect  and  mark  the  place  where  they  have  stopped  reading,  almost  al-  ways  smack  at  the  end  of  a  chapter,  with  Kleenex,  an  emery  board,  a  past-  due  bill  from  one  of  the  off-campus  inns  summing  up  the  month's  total  of  grilled-cheese  sandwiches,  hamburgers,  diet  cola,  tea  with  stickies.  Typewriters  are  uncovered.  Curtains  from  home  range  from  plain  to  nearly  fancy;  the  matching  bedspreads  have  slid  to  the  floor  and  crumpled  there.  On  the  chairs  there  is  a  representative  tangle  of  wear-  ing  apparel  from  the  past  several  days:  socks,  a  stocking,  underthings,  outer-  things,  something  old,  something  new,  something  borrowed-you  know.  It  is  quite  all  right  for  anybody  to  look-  boys,  too;  if  you  don't  see  them  here,  you  can  always  look  at  them  in  maga-  zines  and  newspapers,  if  that's  the  sort  of  thing  you  have  in  mind,  and  it's  per-  fectly  decent  even  in  the  beds,  with  here  and  there  a  stray  hand  or  arm  or  foot  or  leg  uncovered,  young  and  ten-  der  and  honey-colored  or  dark  olive  or  alabaster.  The  girls  are  very  still;  they  might  all  be  dead,  and  statistics  show  that  some  of  them-not,  of  course,  Lolly-will  be  in  a  few  years.  All  kinds  of  terrible  things  will  happen  to  them  that  nobody  can  predict,  but  fortunate-  ly  they  aren't  thinking  about-well,  that.  Perhaps  if  they  were  they  would  perk  up,  do  something  that  will  make  it  easier  for  the  class  scribe  when  she  has  to  write  that  thing  for  the  class  notes  in  the  alumnae  magazine:  &quot;Word  has  just  reached  us  of  the  death  of  Judy  MacLean  Archer.  We  all  remember  Mackie  as  one  of  the  most  vitally  in-  terested  and  interesting  girls  in  our  class,  possessing  a  sense  of  humor  which  enabled  her  to  love  fun  and  always  to  put  things  in  their  proper  perspective.  Our  sympathy  is  extended  to  her  hus-  band  and  two  small  children.&quot;  (Listen,  did  you  read  in  the  class  notes  about  Mackie?  ...  Oh,  of  course  you  re-  member  her.  What  do  you  suppose  Aep-  pened?  At  her  age?  My  age.)  In  the  first  consciousness  of  morn-  ing,  of  the  day  about  to  begin,the  girls  will  put  it  off,this  new  day,  for  as  long  as  they  can  and  lie  quietly  re-  membering  themselves.  New  girls,  old  girls,  they  study  themselves  in  the  iso-  lation  of  the  weather,  as  if  this  separat-  ing  rain  reminds  them  that  they  are  away  from  home,  and  it  is  quite  possible  that  they  will  never  go  back.  Visits  don't  count-holidays,  all  that.  They  have  left  home-home,  love,  things  as  they  were-and,  like  the  day,  some-  thing  else  is  beginning  that  no  weath-  erman  can  prophesy.  So  much  for  the  forecast.  Only  one  thing  is  sure.  In  " b"their  solitary  condition,  they  have  one  certain  promise-that  today  they  will  all  be  able  to  talk  about  the  weather,  totalkto  each  other,  will  all  have  something  to  say  that  will  be  un-  derstood.  Shaking  rain  hats  and  raincoats,  stamping  dripping  boots  or  soggy  shoes,  they  will  greet  each  other  in  the  halls,  the  dining  rooms,  the  libraries,  shivering  or  puffing  or  sighing  or  laughing.  Somebody  will  step  in  a  deep  pud-  dle  and  shriek;  their  hair  will  be  plastered  to  their  faces,  their  eye-  lashes  matted  with  rain.  But  they  will  under-  stand  each  other,  and  even  that  hopeless  dead-  pan  girl  in  Poetry  and  Prose  of  the  Eight,  eenth  Century  will  be  soaked  and  will  spatter  the  other  girls  and  be  just  like  them.  Then  they  will  discover  that  she's  really  not  all  that  dumb,  justshy.  Maybe  she's  never  had  a  date  here.  One  of  the  girls  will  then  get  her  a  date  with  some-  body's  ghastly  brother,  who  still  has  a  few  open  wounds  left  over  from  ado-  lescence  but  who  is  a  college  man  and  haunted  by  his  male  condition  and  dy-  ing  for  a  woman  and  on  their  first  date  will  turn  out  to  be  a  sudden  lunger.  In  other  words,  hemmed  in  by  the  rain,  sealed  fast  here  in  their  own  commu-  nity,  they  will  all  get  to  know  each  oth-  er,  maybe  for  the  first  and  last  time,  and  it  may  turn  out  to  be  one  of  the  best  days  of  the  year.  And  now  the  alarms  ring,  and  everyone  is  up  and  dressing;  some  will  eat  breakfast  and  some  won't  (home  of  the  awful  waf-  fe!  ),  and  then  all  that  scurrying  through  the  rain  commences.  H,  for  heaven's  sake.  Not  every-  one.  Here  is  Lolly  (Laura  Louise)  Harrison,  and  she's  done  it  again.  Slept  right  through  the  alarm.  Her  room-  mate  thought  she  was  awake,  but  Lolly  curled  up  under  the  covers  again,  turned  over  and  buried  her  face  in  the  pillow,  and  went  right  back  to  sleep.  Frankly,  Lolly  has  no  intellectual  curi-  osity,  and  the  only  reason  she  is  here  is  that  she  supposed  it  came  next.  Con-  fidentially,  some  of  the  faculty  are  be-  ginning  to  consider  that  perhaps  col-  lege  isn't  Lolly's-bag.  There  was  the   time,  for  instance,  on  that  geography  field  trip,  when  all  the  other  girls  were  ableto  follow  their  contour  maps  un-  erringly  to  their  destinations,  joining  the  right  group  in  the  right  place  at  the  right  time.  And  where  was  Lolly?  Mr.  Thurmond  had  finally  found  her  in  a  gravel  quarryby  frantic  searching  and  shouting.  She  was  simply  starving,  but  she  had  done  exactly  the  right  thing-  gone  to  her  destination  and  stayed  there  until  he  had  come  for  her.  Of  course,  it  was  the  wrong  place.  She  had  been  glad  to  see  him,  butnot  surprised.  She  had  told  him,  as  he  sighed  and  sank  down  on  the  stones,  that  she  didn't  think  she'd  ever  learn  to  read  a  contour  map,  and  she  honestly  couldn't  think  why  she  should.  If  she  wanted  to  know  how  to  get  somewhere,  she  would  call  up  somebody  or  inquire  at  a  gas  station.  Besides,  she  didn't  care  for  geography,  the  way  it  was  shaping  up;  she  had  sup-  posed  it  would  be  about  foreign  coun-  tries-places  with  camels  and  all.  Mr.  Thurmond,  a  dedicated  young  man  in  his  early  teaching  years,  had  studied  Lolly's  length  in  jersey  and  jeans  and  her  long  black  hair  as  she  wriggled  in  her  gravelly  seat  and  almost  been  con-  vinced  that  the  age  of  the  contour  map  was  over.  He  had  listlessly  handed  her  a  soft  Hershey  bar  from  his  pocket  and  escorted  her  to  the  buses,  and  all  the  way  back  to  the  campus  sat  staring  through  the  window,  his  elbow  resting my  1964  return  on  that  narrow  little  sill,  the  lower  half  of  his  face  hidden  in  his  palm.  And  now  Lolly,  asleep,  isn't  dreaming  about  him  or  Frank  or  Johnny  or  anybody;  she  is  uncompromisingly  asleep  on  her  stomach,  her  black  hair  tangled  at  the  back  of  her  head,  her  rounded  solid  bottom  making  its  own  contours  under  the  covers,  signifying  that  she  will  in-  deed  always  be  able  to  ask  directions  and  get  the  right  answers,  that  she  will  marry  a  handsome  man  and  have  five  lucky  children,  that  she  will  never  be  chairman  of  the  committee  but  would  be  happy  to  volunteer  to  stuff  envelopes,  and  that  right  now  she  is  missing  her  eight-o'clock,  and  probably  will  miss  her  nine-o'clock  and  her  next  class,  too,  and  never  know  what  she  is  missing. "