 b"THE  weight  of  Professor  Henry  Tenterden's  library  finally  broke  the  Elizabethan  joists  of  his  house.  While  the  builders  were  in  the  place-saboteurs,  malingerers,  tres-  passers  stopping  him  working-he  wore  pajamas  all  day  in  protest.  Twenty  thousand  books  were  stacked  in  the  passages.  He  identified  the  head  car-  penter  as  a  plagiarist  in  disguise  from  a  learned  journal,  and  told  a  startled  electrician  that  there  had  been  enough  pillage.  Next  day,a  Saturday  full  of  people  to  stay,  though  it  was  free  of  the  snoopers  in  boiler  suits,  Henry  saw  his  first  edition  of  Gibbon's  &quot;Decline  and  Fall&quot;  too  near  the  bathroom  for  ease  of  mind.  He  put  the  volumes  into  his  tallboy,  under  his  Oxford  rugger  sweaters,  &quot;''There's  a  pile  of  dictionaries  in  the  fridge,&quot;  said  Anna  Tenterden,  who  was  his  second  wife.  She  had  her  arms  around  two  rows  of  Middle  English  documents,  clasping  them  tightly  as  if  they  were  a  chimney  stack  and  she  trying  to  climb  it.  She  gaineda  better  purchase  and  said,  &quot;Did  you  want  them  there,  dear?&quot;  &quot;They  need  damp,&quot;  he  said.  He  was  in  the  dining  room  in  his  dressing  gown,  with  medieval  records  spread  out  before  him  on  the  refectory  table  in  the  Elizabethan  chill.  &quot;I  thought  damp  was  bad  for  books,&quot;  she  said.  He  went  on  reading.  &quot;They're  taking  up  all  the  room,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'The  goose  has  gone  off  as  it  is.&quot;  &quot;Cold  damp,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  not  giv-  ing  them  tropical  damp,  They've  been  getting  dry  heat.  Someone  must  have  turned  on  a  radiator.  They've  been  parched.&quot;  The  new  German  aw-pair  girl  came  into  the  room  and  the  pro-  fessor's  stammer  attacked  him,  as  it  did  when  his  attention  was  divided.  &quot;I  expect  Heidi  p-put  them  there.&quot;  Heidi  spoke  little  English,  and  the  professor  had  promised  his  wife  not  to  pamper  her  with  German,  so  he  repeated  him-  self  in  Old  Frankish.  &quot;You  know  Heidi  never  goes  near  the  library,&quot;  Anna  said.  &quot;Lay  dinner  for  ten,  Heidi  dear.&quot;  &quot;What  are  we  having?&quot;  the  profes-  sor  asked.  &quot;Herring  with  yogurt  in  a  nice  Per-  sian  way,  and  paella,&quot;  Anna  said.  Henry  shut  his  eyes.  &quot;I've  made  the  men  an  apple  crum-  ble.&quot;  &quot;We'll  drinks,&quot;  have  some  caviar  with  Henry  said,  going  on  in  his  mind  to  make  the  toast  because  Anna  would  burn  it.  He  loped  into  the  drawing  room  to  get  himself  a  whiskey,  but  two  Gug-  genheim  Fellows,  a  Polish  historian,  a  Scottish  archeologist,  a  [REDACTED]  politi-  cal  journalist,  a  Swedish  mountaineer-  ing  mystic,  a  French  poet,  a  Bolivian  guerrilla  fighter,  and  the  Prime  Minis-  ter  were  still  eating  muffins  and  plum  cake  for  tea,  In  the  middle  of  a  muffin,  when  one  of  the  Guggenheim  Fellows  was  talking  about  hard-edge  painting  and  theatrical  Happenings,  Professor  Tenterden  was  overtaken  by  a  muti-  nous  loathing  of  art  and  said,  &quot;Art  is  s-spilt  religion.&quot;  Everyone  laughed.  Oh  lord,  he  thought,  what  did  I  mean  by  that,  if  anything?  It  was  the  sort  of  remark  he  was  known  for.  Then  the  Prime  Minister  had  to  go,  which  re-  lieved  the  guerrilla  fighter,  and  the  journalist  started  to  question  Henry  about  his  political  attitudes.  The  in-  quisition  was  one  that  they  had  started  on  a  television  program  several  years  ago,  when  Henry  had  found  the  young  man  engaging  and  serious,  but  lately  his  questions  had  started  to  seem  portly,  and  Henry's  fatally  tuned  ear  had  caught  something  tenth-hand  and  truckling  in  him,  however  hard  he  tried  to  deafen  himself  to  it.  'Your  bookon  John  Wilkes  made  me  wonder  again  about  getting  you  into  the  House,&quot;  the  journalist  said.  \xe2\x80\x9cA}].))  &quot;The  P.M.  is  a  tremendous  fan  of  yours.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Oh'77  &quot;Didn't  you  know?&quot;  &quot;I  can  see  about  as  much  reason  to  want  to  be  a  politician  now  as  to  be  a  p-parking-meter  attendant.  Could  I  have  a  piece  of  plum  cake?&quot;  &quot;We've  never  really  dug  into  this,  have  we?&quot;  &quot;Into  what?&quot;  The  man  gestured.  &quot;The  whole  question  of  where  you  stand.  A  famous  dissident  by  action,  and  yet  an  authori-  Y  &gt;  M  t  is  ||  o  Mn\xef\xac\x81l\xe2\x80\x9cmmmmm  ToC  tw     tarian  by  religion-I'm  not  treading  on  any  toes,  am  I?  A  Socialist,  and  yet  one  who  detests,  and  I  quote  you,  'the  Labour  Party's  carefully  assumed  new  suburbanism.'  A  great  guru,  and  yet  a  man  who  casts  off  followers.&quot;  His  voice  rolled  on,  flowering  into  Biblical  paral-  lelisms,  and  Henry  dunked  his  plum  cake  into  his  whiskey  and  was  recalled  to  the  fidgets  he  got  if  ever  he  read  Isaiah.  Then  he  made  a  face  at  himself  because  he  had  dropped  a  bit  of  the  wet  cake  onto  his  bedroom  slippers.  He  happened  to  do  this  at  a  moment  when  the  journalist  was  asking  his  opinion  of  some  Parliamentary  commentator  about  whom  Henry  hadno  opinion  at  all,  and  the  journalist  appropriated  the  face  as  an  answer  to  his  question.  &quot;Exactly,&quot;  he  said,  laughing.  &quot;The  chap  defies  genre.&quot;  He  said  this  as  ifit  were  the  ultimate  disparagement.  Dear  heaven,  thought  Henry,  he's  a  bitch,  to  boot.  I  suppose  I  call  it  out  in  him.  The  journalist  looked  down  at  his  signet  ring  and  asked  what  Henry  thought  of  a  trades-union  leader  who  had  a  name  with  the  tabloid  press  as  a  bluff  prophet.  Henry  thought  him  a  posturing  syco-  phant  who  was  all  tooapt  to  go  far,  but  said  in  a  faint  voice,  &quot;A  good  man  ...&quot;  and  went  in  search  of  a  dishcloth  for  his  bedroom  slippers,  fin-  ishing  the  sentence  to  himself  in  the  pantry:  &quot;...in  the  worst  sense  of  the  term.&quot;  S  a  toddler,  Professor  Tenterden  already  possessed  a  bilious  sense  of  humor.  It  seemed  fully  formed  before  he  was  out  of  rompers,  and  his  step-  mother,  who  was  556e6974656420537461746573n,  recoiled  in  loneliness  from  its  alarming  English-  ness.  Its  mixture  of  violence  and  stoi-  cism  was  alien,  and  so  was  the  fact  that  it  appeared  to  be  entirely  self-addressed.  He  realized  at  the  age  of  five  that  he  was  unlikable.  His  retort  to  life  was  to  make  himself  terrifying.  His  develop-  ing  stammer  then  became  an  aid.  He  discovered  how  to  turn  it  on  people  and  scare  them  with  it,  as  if  it  were  a  false  eye  and  he  a  child  of  iron.  Wrestling  with  his  impediment,  mouth  opened  on  a  mute  howl,  he  started  to  experience  the  thoughts  of  the  watchers  as  if  he  were  livingso  many  lives,  and  the  sen-  sation  of  fracturing  into  prisms  made  the  stammer  worse.  He  learned  to  wangle  with  it  as  he  grew  up,  of  course.  He  called  it  &quot;the  block.&quot;  When  he  was  laughing,  or  talking  in  bed  to  a  girl,  it  held  off,  and  he  was  always  unafflicted  in  the  presence  of  anyone  whom  he  failed  to  intimidate.  It  became  a  knotty  " b'   fact  of  his  life  that  the  only  people  who  really  engaged  and  elated  him  were  the  few  who  were  impervious  to  his  tactic.  The  stammer  was  at  its  worst  when  he  was  with  a  small  number  of  awed  strangers;  in  front  ofa  larger  audi-  ence-when  he  was  lecturing,  for  in-  stance,  or  on  television-he  felt  the  crowd  of  witnesses  merge  and  disappear,  and  he  lost  the  feeling  of  being  hacked  into  fractions.  At  the  age  of  ten  he  dis-  covered  that  the  stammer  never  struck  when  he  was  speaking  a  foreign  lan-  guage.  He  immediately  finished  learn-  ing  fluent  French  and  Latin,  and  started  on  Greek,  German,  and  Span-  ish.  He  acquired  the  Slav  languages  in  a  cluster  during  his  twenties,  and  the  Scandinavian  group  when  he  married  Ragnhilde,  a  famous  young  Norwegian  physicist.  Ragnhilde  was  a  vague,  accident-  prone  girl,  with  an  intellect  of  powerful  buried  purpose  and  a  domestic  presence  that  emanated  clutter.  She  made  Henry  feel  exuberant,  though  sometimes  mad-  dened.  In  their  early  days  before  the  war,  when  they  were  poor,  they  lived  in  a  shabby  flat  in  North  Oxford.  Ragn-  hilde  would  stand  in  front  of  the  fire,  waiting  for  the  kettle  to  boil  for  tea  on  the  gas  ring  at  the  side  of  the  fireplace,  and  do  higher  mathematics  in  her  head  while  her  husband  overwhelmed  some  circle  of  acolytes.  And  then  she  would  absently  put  the  red-hot  kettle  onto  the  hearthrug  to  go  away  to  her  card  in-  dexes,  and  the  professor  would  smell  a  smell  like  branded  sheep  and  know  that  she  had  done  it  again,  and  only  hope  not  to  pierce  her  with  some  barbed  crack  when  she  wandered  back.  He  seldom  managed  not  to.  One  night  she  lost  her  Persian  cat  out  of  the  window.  It  seemed  to  him  that  only  Ragnhilde  could  have  had  a  cat  that  went  for  a  night  walk  off  a  fourth-floor  window-  sill,  though  it  was  also  true  that  only  Ragnhilde  could  have  made  the  poor  wreck  wish  to  survive.  When  Henry  was  thirty-four,  they  had  a  girl  child  in  what  struck  him  as  aeons  longer  than  nine  months,  for  all  that  Ragnhilde  seemed  to  regard  the  birth  as  sprung  on  her  splendidly  ahead  of  time.  They  called  the  child  Logan,  and  the  profes-  sor  taught  her  a  tongue  twister  in  Czech  by  the  time  she  was  two  and  three-quarters.  Ragnhilde  left  him  soon  afterward  and  he  assumed  he  had  frightened  her  away.  By  his  witticisms  about  hercook-  ing,  perhaps.  Or  by  the  halting  specta-  cle  he  made  of  himself  in  the  unkind  academic  company  that  he  took  on  to  strengthen  his  nerve.  He  missed  her  hellishly,  got  divorced,  wrote  to  her  to  remind  her  that  her  driving  license  had  run  out,  and  accepted  a  lectureship  abroad  for  the  first  time.  He  chucked  it  after  a  term.  Talking  was  easier  for  him  in  practically  any  country  but  England,  but  living  elsewhere  was  impossible.  He  came  home  to  the  land  of  drafts,  bad  puns,  the  fag  end  of  rationing,  fifty  million  hermits,  and  a  language  that  caught  his  tongue  in  a  steel  trap,  and  knew  that  he  loved  the  place  beyond  reprieve.  He  learned  Flemish  to  give  himself  heart  (throughout  his  life,  there  was  no  buoyancy  that  compared  with  the  mood  of  opening  a  new  gram-  mar,  apart  from  the  flush  of  optimism  he  always  felt  on  looking  at  the  draw-  ing  of  Ragnhilde  that  he  kept  in  his  desk),  and  met  a  placid  Catholic  girl  who  seemed  not  to  find  him  alarming.  She  cooked  him  dinner  forthe  first  time  without  showing  a  qualm,  at  a  water-  logged  dinner  party  where  he  was  sud-  denly  aware  that  fewer  and  fewer  people  felt  it  was  in  their  power  to  make  the  eminent  wit  laugh  them-  selves.  He  leaned  over  to  her  and  said,  &quot;Hommage  aux  pommes  pur\xc3\xa9es.&quot;  He  had  hoped  to  say  &quot;Hommage  aux  mashed  potatoes&quot;  so  as  to  send  up  his  pedantry,  but  the  &quot;m&quot;  in  English  pre-  vented  it.  He  married  her  within  a  month  of  the  decree  absolute  and  became  a  Cath-  olic.  For  a  time  he  kept  Logan  in  his  care  by  convincing  Ragnhilde  that  a  settled  household  with  a  line  of  other  children  in  the  offing  was  the  better  place  for  the  little  girl  to  be,  but  she  started  to  show  signs  of  fright  in  his  presence  and  he  sent  her  back  to  her  mother.  In  1960,  when  Logan  was  twelve,  he  began  again  with  her,  shuttling  her  back  to  Ragnhilde  in  termtime  and  using  the  holidays  to  turn  her  into  a  linguist  after  his  own  image.  Her  ear  and  application  gave  him  de-  light,  and  he  had  no  idea  that  she  pined  only  to  please  him  and  would  far  rather  have  had  a  pony  or  gone  with  him  to  prison,  where  he  spent  a  month  in  the  early  sixties  after  he  had  invited  arrest  in  a  left-wing  demonstration  about  nu-  clear  disarmament.  Not  then  fifty  years  old,  willfully  aged,  he  was  generally  classified  as  a  crusty  right-wing  skeptic,  and  the  action  startled  everyone  but  a  few  of  his  oldest  friends,  including  Ragnhilde,  who  could  not  forget  the  ' b"spectral  force  of  her  young  and  pacifist  husband's  presence  long  ago  in  Trafal-  gar  Square,  where  he  had  startlingly  made  himself  speak  in  support  of  arm-  ing  against  [REDACTED].  She  was  used  to  his  doing  what  he  found  temperamen-  tally  most  costly.  When  she  read  his  books,  or  saw  him  on  TV,  he  struck  her  as  the  same  subtle  and  harrowing  man  as  before  and  nothing  to  do  with  the  rancorous  coldheart  of  his  reputa-  tion.  It  was  not  fear  that  had  driven  her  away  to  live  with  someone  else  but  the  pain  she  detected  in  him  and  caught,  which  became  more  than  she  could  contend  with.  ENRY's  household  with  Anna  was  famous  for  its  weekends-the  thundery  conviviality,  the  chances  of  brilliant  warmth  from  the  host  between  silences,  and  the  dreadful  food.  When  the  great  scholar  couldn't  bear  his  sec-  ond  wife's  meals  any  longer,  he  would  go  alone  on  childish  binges  to  [REDACTED].  They  generally  gave  him  migraines  of  longing  for  England.  He  was  seldom  totally  well.  He  suffered  seasonally  from  fibrositis,  sinus  trouble,  andhay  fever.  He  thought  sometimes  that  his  worst  physical  malady  was  his  fear  of  being  bored;  it  was  some  sort  of  lump  at  thetop  of  his  head,  it  seemed,  and  every  year  or  two  he  shamed  himself  by  covertly  having  his  skull  X-rayed.  In  the  middle  ofcoffee  after  dinner  with     his  houseparty  this  Saturday,  he  felt  the  ache  coming  on  him  badly  and  held  his  skull  for  relief,  rubbing  his  scalp  to  rid  the  skin  of  the  impression  that  a  sew-  ing  machine  was  stitching  across  it.  The  people  in  the  room  were  talking  with  difficulty,  hampered  by  the  de-  spondent  sight  of  their  host  in  silk  pa-  jamas  and  an  old  dressing  gown  from  his  school  days  at  Winchester.  He  looked  like  a  man  wakened  in  the  mid-  dle  of  the  night  by  fire.  He  opened  his  mouth  to  try  to  make  things  go  a  bit,  but  the  block  attacked  him  before  the  first  syllable  was  out  and  he  turned  the  attempt  into  a  grunt.  There  were  four  foreign  languages  that  he  could  choose  to  speak  in  this  very  company,  and  any  one  of  them  would  be  more  accom-  modating  than  his  own,  but  he  was  damned  if  he  was  going  to.  Then  he  took  back  that  miserable  pigheadedness  and  began  to  pour  out  a  torrent  of  French,  until  he  felt  his  mind  start  to  mince,  as  it  did  in  French,  so  he  went  into  Polishforthe  benefit  of  a  little  ironic  energy,  and  then  took  English  by  surprise  from  behind.  He  managed  nearly  a  quarter  of  an  hour  of  daz-  zling  monologue  about  revolutionary  theory,  longing  all  the  time  for  an  in-  terruption  so  that  he  might  have  some-  one  to  talk  to.  Eventually  the  block  put  in  its  oar  and  he  had  a  drink  while  his  listeners  repeated  his  words  to  one  another.  His  prattle  appalled  him  and he  stood  at  the  window  fora  while,  and  then  went  into  the  morning  room  to  play  a  gigue  on  his  clavichord.  &quot;A  thrilling  mind,&quot;  he  heard  one  of  the  voices  say,  so  he  changed  the  gigue  to  chopsticks.  &quot;It's  like  standing  under  Niagara,&quot;  said  the  archeologist,  who  was  a  fast-  talking  Highlander  with  sandy  red  hair  and  a  cruel  expression.  &quot;Until  the  stam-  mer  hits  him.  Niagara  with  a  faulty  tap  washer.&quot;  Henry  stomped  back  through  the  room  and  up  to  the  ruinsof  his  library  to  write  a  letter  to  Logan.  For  his  birthday  last  week  she  had  sent  him  a  set  of  gramophone  records  of  Paul  Sco-  field's  Lear,  with  an  awkward  note  say-  ing  that  she  had  noticed  a  bookshelf  la-  belled  &quot;Lear&quot;  lying  about  the  corridors  and  hadn't  known  before  that  he  was  a  fan.  The  last  sorry  word  had  lain  un-  der  his  mind  like  the  pea  under  the  princess's  mattress.  Fret  with  it-no,  mortification  with  himself  and  the  peo-  ple  below  put  him  further  out  of  touch  with  her  than  usual.  He  was  going  to  see  her  tomorrow,  but  rage  parading  as  punctiliousness  impelled  him  to  write  a  note  to  her  university  address:  My  dear  Logan,  The  &quot;Lear&quot;  bookshelf  you  noticed  was  Edward,  not  King.  I  collect  his  Indian  drawings  and  like  the  limericks,  as  you  may  recall.  I  have  never  cared  much  for  Shakespeare's  tragedies,  particularly  in  the  mouths  of  actors,  though  a  mistaken  impulseonce  induced  me  to  see  Olivier  as  Hamlet.  However,  I  shall  try  again.  He  looked  at  his  crisp,  pretty  hand-  writing,  loathed  it,  and  then  wrote:  My  heart  bleeds  for  you  in  the  bore-  dom  you  must  be  enduring  before  sitting  your  exams  for  the  second  time.  Logan  was  enduring  nothing  but  terror,  yet  he  could  never  bring  himself  to  say  that  he  knew  such  things.  He  read  the  note  again,  wept,  tore  it  up,  sat  on  a  paintpot  with  his  dressing,  gown  skirt  held  out  of  the  wood  shav-  ings  that  were  littering  his  floor,  and  contended  glumly  with  the  woman  Guggenheim  scholar,  who  had  come  upstairs  now  to  keep  him  company.  She  was  very  pretty.  That  was  a  help.  He  thought  of  Logan,  and  of  the  weight  she  had  put  on  in  the  last  eight-  cen  months  while  she  had  been  failing  her  exams,  and  then  he  thought  of  Ragnhilde.  The  scholar  asked  him  some  questions  about  a  theme  in  his  work.  Henry  felt  so  dismal  about  such  formu-  las,  and  about  Logan's  looks,  and  the  loss  of  Ragnhilde,  that  he  simulated  deafness  and  said,  &quot;Scene!?  What  scene?  Are  you  a  hippie?&quot;  &quot;Theme.  I  meant...  How  long  " b"have  you  been  working  this  .  ..  vein?&quot;  He  felt  a  stammer  coming  and  could  only  exploit  it,  rap-  pingout  with  a  frightful  chasm  in  the  middle,  &quot;You  think  I'm  v-vain?&quot;  PROFESSOR  TENTERDEN  was  a  nightmare  to  foreigners,  especially  to  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  and  a  cipher  to  most  of  the  Eng-  lish  people  who  stayed  in  his  house.  He  was  stricken  often  by  a  melancholy  that  seemed  disproportionate  to  his  for-  tunes.  He  had  a  house  with  a  billiard  room,  a  garden  with  lavender  beds,  an  absorbing  circle,  an  equable  wife  and  a  row  of  children,  a  belief  in  an  afterlife,  and  a  phenomenal  intellect,  buthe  was  often  in-  accessibly  cast  down.  It  added  to  his  eccentricity  that  he  wel-  comed  the  blackness  from  which  even  some  of  his  inti-  mates  mistakenly  sought  to  re-  trieve  him.  Yet  the  opposite  was  also  trueof  him:  that  he  was  fam-  ished  forlarks  and  fun,  loathed  the  sight  of  highly  educated  acquaintances  turning  into  stalagmites  under  the  drip  of  intolerably  clever  conversation  that  was  mostly  his,  and  felt  more  and  more  desperately  every  day  that  he  was  spreading  himself  too  thin  among  too  many  people  and  turning  himself  into  a  vapor.  When  he  had  made  himself  come  downstairs  again  and  sit  with  the  others  in  the  drawing  room,  he  stayed  mum  and  tried  to  make  a  new  hole  in  his  watch  strap,  which  had  stretched,  un-  less  his  wrist  had  shrunk.  He  failed  with  the  hole  and  heard  the  archeologist  dis-  coursing  irritably  about  the  right  price  to  pay  fora  second-hand  lute.  Anna  was  listening  to  the  Polish  historian  lec-  turing  her  about  the  date  when  the  Immaculate  Conception  became  dogma.  He  seemed  to  have  made  a  mistake  about  it,  whereas  she  had  innocently  been  right  and  was  now  paying  for  it.  Henry  went  back  to  wondering  if  he  had  perhaps  shrunk  all  over,  and  tried  the  watch  around  his  ankle,  which  it  distressingly  fitted.  He  raised  his  leg  so  that  the  silk  of  his  pajamas  fell  back  like  a  kimono  sleeve,  and  looked  at  his  ankle-  bone  fora  while.  It  couldn't  be  healthy  to  have  an  ankle  scarcely  bigger  than  a  wrist.  He  gazed  around  the  room  in  search  ofa  man  as  thin  as  himself,  for  purposes  of  skeleton  comparison,  but  only  the  guerrilla  fighter  qualified  and  his  ankles  were  visibly  twice  the  size  of  his  wrists.  Through  marching,  no  doubt.  Henry  caught  Anna  looking  at  him  as  if  he  were  an  invalid.  Her  be-  nign  almoner's  presence  left  him  so  cold  that  his  flesh  started  to  shriek.  Five  children  and  not  a  moment  of  eroticism  between  them,  not  a  stir,  not  a  sliver,  although  she  was  a  fine  woman  and  one  he  would  not  have  hurt  for  worlds.  He  felt  old  and  celibate,  and  decided  at  nine-forty-seven  by  the  watch  on  his  ankle  to  go  to  bed.  He  grabbed  her  hand  as  he  went  out  and  muttered  &quot;Coming?,&quot;  but  by  this  time  she  was  talking  about  poetry  to  the  male  Guggenheim  Fellow  and  thought  he  meant  e.e.  cummings  and  said,  &quot;No,  Lowell,&quot;  and  Henry  said,  &quot;No,  no,  no,&quot;  and  left  the  room,  giving  a  merry  shepherd  on  a  Tudor  fire  screen  a  glare  as  he  went  and  thereby  fright  ening  Heidi,  who  was  going  upstairs  with  a  pile  of  hot-water  bottles.  Anna  followed  him  out,  her  motherly  an-  tennae  misinforming  her  that  the  chill  in  his  loins  was  a  cold  on  the  chest.  Heidi  mustered  herself  like  a  good  German,  put  down  the  hot-water  bottles,  shook  hands  as  if  she  were  a  businessman  at  an  export  party,  and  said  warmly,  &quot;Good  night,  Professor  Tenterden.  Good  night,  Mrs.  Tenter-  den.  Have  a  nice  time  in  bed.&quot;  Upstairs,  he  laughed  and  then  tried  to  explain  the  rasping  joke  of  it,  think-  ing  that  the  account  of  his  arthritic  old  longings  might,  if  her  perceptions  in-  clined  his  way,  give  her  some  clue  to  the  young  man  still  in  him,  but  she  scemed  obtuse,  and  it  occurred  to  him  after  she  had  gone  to  sleep  that  she  might  even  have  been  alarmed.  He  came  round  to  the  other  side  of  the  bed,  keeping  his  place  in  a  volume  of  Mr.  Jorrocks,  which  he  read  when  he  was  feeling  low  because  the  hunting  and  cating  scenes  kept  his  spirits  up.  He  sat  on  the  windowsill  with  his  spine  against  the  freezing  glass  and  watched  her  for  a  long  time  by  the  moon.  Later  on-an  hour,  maybe-he  heard  the  others  come  upstairs  and  say  good  night  in  overhearty  voices.  One  of  his  chil-  dren  shouted  in  its  sleep.  His  wife  opened  her  eyes  at  the  sound  and  looked  at  him,  appearing  to  be  awake,  though  he  hoped  she  wasn't,  for  he  could  see  nothing  but  self-defense  in  the  gaze.  The  senses  as  the  inlets  of  the  soul?  Perhaps.  If  so,  then  she  was  extinct,  because  blind.  Extinct?  Gone?  Her,  too?  He  smiled  at  her  infear,  but  the  eyeballs  remained  dead,  and  then  mercifully  disappeared  again  be-  hind  her  lids.  Gone.  What  did  people  do  when  they  were  the  last  to  go?  &quot;Dredge  up  the  spirit  to  its  former  bliss.&quot;  What  bliss?  There  was  only  blankness.  Then  suddenly  he  knew  it  with  precision,  like  a  color;  he  was  flooded  with  some  sweet  native  state,  and  the  possibility  of  it  lodged  in  him  after  the  experience  was  lost  again.  He  went  back  to  Surtees,  reading  on  the  sill  and  shivering,  and  thought  about  the  fearof  himself  that  he  had  " b"seen  in  Ragnhilde  and  never  been  able  to  do  anything  to  still.  Then  he  groped  his  wavy  around  to  his  own  side  of  the  bed  and  lay  back  on  a  pillow  that  turned  out  to  be  the  cat,  which  scratched  his  face  and  neck.  He  went  into  the  bathroom  tosee  if  he  was  bleeding,  closed  the  door  before  switch-  ing  on  the  light  forfearof  waking  his  marble  wife,  and  found  claw  stripes  that  looked  like  lover's  markings.  He  did  what  he  could  to  caulk  the  scratches  with  Anna's  makeup,  and  then  laughed  again.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  Anna  shouted,  with  the  split-second  speed  of  replies  made  out  of  sleep,  and  he  produced  some  barbarism  about  his  wives  and  their  cats  that  seemed  to  send  her  safe-  ly  back  into  her  coma,  though  he  had  to  take  into  account  the  danger  that  she  might  have  fallen  silent  through  dismay.  He  remembered  the  Karl  Marx  aphorism  about  great  historical  events  happening  twice,  first  as  trag-  edy  and  second  as  farce,  and  he  won-  dered  if  the  remark  were  also  true  of  minor  private  events,  such  as  the  re-  pelling  of  wives.  HE  house  was  full  of  guests  fit-  fully  asleep,  lonely,  guarded,  toss-  ing  in  strange  beds,  their  ears  mis-  taking  children  for  owls  and  owls  for  dreams.  One  of  them-the  male  556e6974656420537461746573n  scholar-crept  down  to  the  stone  larder  at  five  in  the  morning.  He  had  helped  himself  to  a  slice  of  some  national  thing  that  he  suspected  of  being  haggis  before  he  noticed  the  Polish  historian  eating  out  ofa  dog  bowl  by  the  light  of  a  torch.  &quot;That's  a  dog  bowl,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  said  the  Pole.  &quot;I  can't  find  anything  but  th's,  er,  sausage.  Where  did  you  find  meat?&quot;  &quot;Here.  In  the  dog  bowl.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  you  found  it  right  in  the  dog  bowl?  You  mean  it's  the  dog's?  I  thought  you  were  just  using  the  bow!.&quot;  &quot;They  always  g've  the  best  food  to  the  dog  here.&quot;  &quot;You'll  get  worms.  You  can't  eat  meat  a  spanicls  been  eating.&quot;  He  looked  round  the  kitchen  fora  tooth-  pick  to  deal  with  a  piece  of  the  possible  haggis.  &quot;Been  slobbering  over.&quot;  &quot;Labrador.&quot;  The  ravenous  scholar  came  over  to  the  kitchen  table  and  picked  up  the  torch  to  shine  it  into  the  dog  bowl.  &quot;By  God,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;that's  steak.  I  think  that's  awful.  Giving  a  dog  steak  when  we  had  that  rice  thing.  I  don't  even  know  what  we  had  last  night.  It  was  something  very  British.&quot;  &quot;They  say  English,  you  know,&quot;  the  Pole  said.  &quot;British  also  means  Welsh.  And  New  Zealand,  and  so  on.  It  was  parclla,  I  believe,&quot;  &quot;Look.  I've  had  peelle,  and  I  know  paella  when  I  get  it.  Paella's  Spanish  and  that  wasn't  Spanish.&quot;  The  Pole  finished  the  dogmeat  and  said  it  was  a  good  idea  to  avoid  the  gravies  in  this  house.  The  556e6974656420537461746573n  nodded,  and  feared  for  the  man-bugs  off  the  historic  floor,  maybe  emasculating  hormones  that  could  wreck  his  life,  for  who  knew  what  injections  had  been  fed  to  the  steer  (Rorse?)  that  had  yielded  the  meat.  &quot;You  should  take  an  emetic,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'You  should  see  a  doctor.&quot;  &quot;Europeans  always  eat  a  lot  of  dirt,&quot;  said  the  Pole.  The  556e6974656420537461746573n  suddenly  held  his  head.  &quot;I  don't  know  why  I'm  think-  ing  like  this.  I  know  everything  you're  thinking  about  me  for  it,  and  yet  I  still  go  on  talking  as  if  I  didn't.  I  mean,  I'm  thinking  like  an  556e6974656420537461746573n,  as  if  I  couldn't  do  anything  else,  and  at  the  same  time  I  have  everything  you  think  in  my  head  tonight  as  well.  I  don't  enjoy  sounding  ridiculous.&quot;  Henry  was  listening,  unseen,  and  for  some  reason  held  himself  still.  He  was  in  the  dining  room,  drinking  the  thermos  of  early-morning  coffee  that  Heidi  left  ready  for  him,  and  the  hatch  into  the  old  kitchen  was  open.  It  was  the  start  of  the  day  for  him,  though  it  was  the  middle  of  the  night  for  the  others,  and  the  psychic  lag  between  them  and  himself  made  the  marauders  seem  more  clownish  and  distinct.  They  became  eloquent  to  him  in  a  way  that  had  nothing  to  do  with  what  they  were  saying,  as  if  they  were  far  removed  in  space  and  alreadydealing  with  death.  The  Guggenheim  Fellow,  usually  sealed  in  his  traits  as  hermetically  as  his  host,  suddenly  seemed  to  have  in  his  grasp  abundant  options  of  being  dif-  ferent,  and  Henry  had  a  moment  when  he  could  sustain  opposed  ideas  of  the  man.  He  saw  his  spite,  his  snobbery,  his  faltering  nerve,  and  simultaneously  thought  with  affection  of  his  animal  mask,  snouted  like  a  bear's,  and  of  his  hidden  knowledge  of  possibilities  not  taken,  and  of  the  walls  of  his  life  clos-  ing  in  inch  by  inch  with  the  years  while  the  prisoner  in  his  intolerable  trick  cell  devotedly  brushed  his  teeth  night  and  morning.  Henry  very  nearly  managed     to  get  up,  declare  himself  and  join  the  two  men  in  the  kitchen,  but  some  bankerish  caution  made  him  wait  for  more  evidence  and  then  he  found  his  legs  hitting  an  impediment  much  like  his  stammer.  The  moment  in  the  kitch-  en  faded,  so  faras  the  listener  could  judge,  and  the  visitors  went  upstairs  to  bed.  Henry  lay  his  left  temple  on  the  chair  leather  for  a  long  while  before  he  could  face  the  dawn  ordeal  of  talk-  ing  to  himself  in  a  hand  mirror,  which  his  latest  crank  speech  therapist  had  pre-  scribed  for  him  as  a  final  resort  for  a  case  that  answered  no  rules.  She  had  an  exaggerated  respect  for  Henry's  in-  tellect  and  sense  of  the  ludicrous,  and  her  notion  was  that  a  man  of  his  lugu-  brious  wit,  if  he  watched  his  physi-  cal  equipment  closely  enough  when  it  floundered,  would  find  the  spectacle  funny  and  soluble.  So  the  professor  faced  his  wrenching  mouth  for  an  hour  every  morning,  watching  his  lips,  jaw,  tongue,  throat  beaten  by  his  own  lan-  guage,  and  the  words  would  pile  up  be-  hind  his  teeth  until  he  was  sometimes  forced  to  look  away.  There  was  an  in-  human  hum  in  his  head  this  Sunday,  as  if  he  were  an  electric  typewriter  with  the  keys  jammed,  and  he  turned  aside  and  put  the  hand  mirror  down  in  hatred  of  himself,  for  the  stammer  sud-  denly  seemed  a  technique  for  hiding  something.  It  was  a  bitter  experience  of  insight,  and  his  judgment  was  that  it  befell  an  apt  subject.  When  he  had  done  his  stint,  and  contemplated  taking  the  therapist  to  bed  in  Finnish  as  a  courteous  form  of  vengeance,  and  gone  to  Mass  with  Anna,  he  sat  on  the  window  seat  of  his  violated  library  and  watched  his  guests  dealing  with  the  English  Sabbath.  The  Swedish  mountaineering  mystic  was  crouched  over  the  greenhouse  stove  reading  a  comic.  Anna  was  trying  to  close  the  political  gap  between  the  male  556e6974656420537461746573n  scholar  and  the  Boliv-  ian  by  showing  them  her  new  fruit  trees.  The  Scots  archeologist  had  un-  derstandably  struck  out  on  his  own,  carrying  the  Observer  under  his  arm  and  stopping  to  read  it  as  soon  as  he  felt  alone,  leaning  against  a  bust  of  George  II  at  the  end  of  the  yew  walk.  The  Pole  disappeared  with  the  three  youngest  children  in  the  pony  trap  and  Henry  wished  himself  with  them.  Then  the  garden  was  empty,  and  he  read  Macaulay  until  noon,  when  Logan  drove  up  in  her  car.  She  came  into  the  house  and  then  went  out  again,  and  started  to  drink  something  with  the  Bolivian  under  the  big  chestnut  tree.  They  kept  laughing  " b"together;  their  breath  hung  on  the  air  like  horses'.  Henry  joined  them  and  they  had  a  fine  hour.  Then  the  chil-  dren,  all  five,  descended  like  a  horde  of  boozed  bandits,  sweeping  along  with  them  a  beautiful  friend  of  nine  and  a  half.  Her  name  was  Olivia  Turpin,  and  Henry  had  an  old  game  of  pre-  tending  to  be  in  love  with  her.  In  front  of  his  own  children  he  referred  to  her  as  &quot;your  future  stepmother.&quot;  It  oc-  curred  to  him  today  that  Logan,  whom  he  unsuccessfully  loved,  might  be  un-  happy  about  that,  and  the  stammer  immediately  stopped  him  dead  so  that  he  had  to  go  into  Spanish.  His  younger  children  groaned  loudly  about  this,  which  comforted  the  Pole.  Logan's  Spanish  was  good.  When  she  turned  out  to  know  something  about  Bolivian  politics,  Henry  was  invisibly  pleased  and  said  that  he  might  take  her  to  Latin  [REDACTED]  if  she  went  on  failing  her  exams.  This  simultaneously  buoyed  her  up  and  trussed  herwith  shame.  &quot;Did  you  get  the  records?&quot;  she  said  in  a  cramped  voice.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  he  said.  He  had  torn  up  the  letter,  but  he  still  couldn't  say  that  he  liked  Shakespeare's  tragedies.  &quot;Did  I  remember  the  date  wrong?&quot;  &quot;No,  it  was  the  right  day.&quot;  He  paused.  The  children  were  bowling  hoops  down  the  lavender  walk  and  the  Pole  was  leaping  over  the  bushes,  with  Olivia  clinging  round  his  neck.  &quot;Very  well  timed.&quot;  &quot;If  you've  got  them,  you  can  change  them.  I  expect  you've  got  them  al-  ready.&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  any  Shakespearean  rec-  ords.&quot;  &quot;Then  I  can  give  you  some  every  year  and  add  to  them,  like  you  add  to  my  bracelet.&quot;  She  explained  in  Span-  ish  to  the  Bolivian  that  her  father  gave  her  a  new  opal  for  her  bracelet  every  birthday  and  Christmas,  and  Henry  sat  down  on  the  frost-bound  ground  in  his  pajamas,  overcome  with  the  idea  of  Shakespeare's  tragedies  forcing  entrance  into  his  own  house  twice  a  year.  &quot;Have  they  done  the  histories?&quot;  heasked  faint-  ly.  &quot;Or  Measure  for  Measure?&quot;  Logan  and  the  guerrilla  fighter  didn't  attend  and  he  became  paranoid.  After  they  had  been  talking  politics  for  five  minutes,  he  said  furiously,  &quot;Des-  demona  is  a  silly  girl  and  her  footling  with  a  Moor  of  seriously  under-endowed  mind  is  of  no  interest.  The  murder  of  Duncan  in  'Macbeth'  is  disastrously  positioned.  'Hamlet'  would  be  tolerable  " b"without  the  soliloquies  and  I  am  inter-  ested  by  Fortinbras,  but  unfortunately  the  play  exists  in  no  satisfactory  ver-  sion.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  like  Shakespeare,  then?&quot;  the  guerrilla  fighter  said  cheerily.  &quot;I  don't  much  care  for  fiction,&quot;  said  the  professor.  &quot;As  one  grows  older,  one  finds  it  a  lot  of  cock  and  bull.  All  made  up.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  read?&quot;  &quot;Grammars,&quot;  Logan  said.  &quot;History,&quot;  said  Henry.  &quot;But  history  can  get  you  down,  don't  you  know.  It's  rather  dismal.  Dead  kings  and  so  on.&quot;  He  sat  with  his  chin  on  the  end  of  a  silver  cane,  his  immensely  long  legs  stretched  out  in  front  of  him,  and  the  cold  damp  travelled  his  spine.  UENCHED  by  gin,  the  visitors  Q  lost  the  tang  of  the  bad  night  and  chatted  boldly  at  luncheon.  Henry  drank  claret  in  silence  and  thought  that  he  would  gladly  die  at  this  table,  as  and  when  the  event  came  up.  In  a  kind  of  vision,  he  saw  the  door  open  and  his  corpse  rise  with  a  heave  on  the  shoulders  of  presumable  friends  to  be  borne  successfully  away  from  the  party,  which  it  would  have  marred.  &quot;Sunday  in  England  is  a  [REDACTED]  vestige,&quot;  the  political  journalist  said  iratelv  to  the  baffled  Bolivian,  who  was  having  a  happy  day.  &quot;Even  if  one  doesn't  go  to  church.&quot;  &quot;I  always  feel  there's  a  special  weather  for  Sunday,&quot;  Anna  said  in  a  robust  voice.  She  tried  hard  not  to  em-  barrass  atheists  with  her  Catholicism.  &quot;Overhanging.  Damp.&quot;  The  archeologist  gobbled  like  a  tur-  key,  which  was  the  way  he  showed  agreement.  &quot;Yes-yes-yes.  No  wind.&quot;  &quot;Where  are  your  lovely  children?&quot;  the  woman  556e6974656420537461746573n  scholar  asked.  &quot;'They  eat  in  the  nursery  onSun-  day,&quot;  Anna  said.  &quot;They  get  affected  by  the  atmosphere  and  it  upsets  Henry.  They  don't  like  the  cigars,  and  the  overeating,  and  the  naps,  and  so  on.  I  remember  how  we  used  to  feel,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  about  grownups  on  Sunday.  Don't  you?  I  mean,  when  we  wanted  to  run  around  after  eating.  And  other  things.&quot;  Henry  shrank,  and  his  fibrositis  both-  ered  him.  Anna  seemed  to  him  to  be  talking  about  now,  not  then,  and  it  was  his  doing.  &quot;I  remember  it  even  used  to  make  us  hate  Sunday  that  the  shops  were  closed,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Like  struggling  for  breath.&quot;  &quot;Rather,&quot;  said  the  political  journal-  ist,  made  anxious  by  the  great  man's  &gt;  silence  and  night-  clothes.  He  attempted  to  please  him  with  a  remark  that  he  had  been  keeping  for  some  time.  &quot;Sunday  should  be  abolished  except  between  consenting  adults  in  private.&quot;  Henry's  face  showed  nothing  at  all.  He  was  asleep,  perhaps.  No,  he  drank  from  his  claret  glass.  He  had  that  joy,  at  one-forty-eight  in  the  afternoon  this  Sun-  day,  toward  the  end  of  another  winter  very  nearly  achieved.  The  shouts  of  his  children  floated  down  from  the  rotunda  dome  over  the  stairway  and  he  again  thought  himself  dead,  &quot;Are  you  in  school?&quot;  the  male  Gug-  genheim  scholar  asked  Logan.  &quot;I'm  at  university.  I'm  about  to  mess  up  my  second  go  at  exams,&quot;  she  said  truculently,  looking  at  her  father.  There  was  a  silence.  &quot;Just  read  Spode's  little  master-  piece,&quot;  said  the  archeologist.  &quot;Any  good?&quot;  the  journalist  asked.  &quot;Riddled  with  inaccuracies.  Worm-  caten  with  them.  I've  written  to  the  T.L.S.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  B.  J.  Spode?&quot;  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  man  asked.  &quot;I  thought  O.U.P.  were  his  publishers.  Surely  O.U.P.  have  peo-  ple  who  check?&quot;  &quot;B.  J.  Spode  is  beyond  checking,&quot;  said  the  archeologist.  There  was  another  silence.  The  Bo-  livian  stoked  up  with  more  Stilton.  Logan  was  staring  down  at  her  plate,  and  Henry  watched  her.  She  looked  beautiful,  and  calm  in  her  fatness,  which  seemed  no  disadvantage  to  her  when  she  was  seen  in  this  sitting  posi-  tion.  He  was  overcome  by  great  loath-  ing  of  the  strangers  in  his  house.  &quot;I'm  in  the  prime  of  life,&quot;  he  said  loudly.  People  looked  round  at  him  as  if  they  weren't  sure  whether  or  not  he  had  spoken.  He  got  up,  and  Anna  said  hastily  to  the  table,  &quot;You  won't  mind  if  Henry  goes  to  bed?&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  bed!&quot;  he  shouted,  making  for  the  door  fast.  He  saw  his  books  piled  everywhere.  Getting  out  of  hand,  though  it  was  better  than  the  shambles  his  executors  would  make-a  sight  he  would  escape,  by  good  luck.  He  wanted  a  Serbo-  Croat  dictionary  to  look  up  the  names  of  the  playing  cards  so  that  he  could  play  demon  patience  with  Logan  in their  old  language  for  fooling,  but  all  he  could  find  were  volumes  about  fly-  fishing  and  sets  of  early-nineteenth-  century  Swedish  novels.  Then  he  recalled  putting  the  book  into  the  re-  frigerator,  but  when  he  looked  there  was  nothing  there  but  food.  He  went  up  to  the  nursery,  where  he  never  stam-  mered,  even  in  English,  and  pulled  faces  for  the  children.  &quot;Your  future  stepmother,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;who  is  riding  elegantly  on  the  rocking  horse  while  you  scum  play  your  messy  games,  is  going  to  have  to  support  me  from  now  on  because  someone  has  pinched  my  dictionaries.&quot;  &quot;People  don't  pay  children  for  working,&quot;  Olivia  said  from  the  rocking  horse.  &quot;Hurrah,  a  burglary!&quot;  shouted  Timothy,  his  middle  son,  who  was  still  immobilized  at  the  table  in  front  of  a  plate  of  cold  cabbage  and  gristle.  &quot;'Then  we'll  have  a  long  engage-  ment,&quot;  Henry  said  to  Olivia,  &quot;until  my  next  birthday,  and  you  can  earn  an  immense  amount  of  money  at  an  early  age  by  writing  a  best-seller  which  will  be  in  all  the  bookshops,  and  it  will  be  made  into  a  film  by  the  richest  idiot  in  the  world,  who  will  invite  you  to  his  yacht  for  champagne  and  meringues.&quot;  This  sounded  pleasant,  and  he  thought  about  it.  The  nanny  snorted.  &quot;Who  whipped  the  dictionaries?&quot;  Timothy  asked.  &quot;We  can  rule  out  Nanny,  can't  we,  Nanny?&quot;  Henry  said,  and  Nanny  said,  &quot;I  don't  know,  I'm  sure.&quot;  &quot;Can  I  play  trains  with  them?&quot;  Henry  asked  her,  meanwhile  scooping  some  of  Timothy's  remains  into  his  " b"handkerchief  with  his  back  turned  to  the  woman.  &quot;We  haven't  eaten  upour  nice  luncheon,&quot;  Nanny  said.  &quot;Which  of  us  hasn't?  Oh,  Timothy.  Timothy,  eat  up  the  nice  luncheon.  The  cabbage  was  grown  by  your  de-  voted  present  mother  and  served  by  your  devoted  nurse,  and  the  gristle  was  bought  with  my  money.&quot;  Henry  reached  for  his  handkerchief,  giving  the  children  spasms  of  anxiety  by  pretend-  ing  to  have  forgotten  what  was  in  it.  He  warded  off  a  sneeze  and  his  younger  daughter  shrieked.  &quot;What  are  we  all  going  to  live  on  if  you  can't  earn  any  wages  because  of  the  burglary?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  five  can  manage  on  chocolate,  which  is  extremely  cheap,  and  your  future  stepmother  will  eat  rare  fruits  grown  by  her  idle  stepchildren,  and  Nanny  and  I  will  eat  leftovers.&quot;  Henry  sat  down  beside  Timothy  and  atehalf  the  cabbage  and  meat  scraps  for  him  and  said,  &quot;Delicious.&quot;  &quot;There,  Timothy,&quot;  said  Nanny.  &quot;You  see  how  your  father  enjoyed  it.&quot;  Henry  pushed  the  plate  away,  wish-  ing  it  were  Nanny,  and  walked  over  to  her  television  set.  She  had  looked  after  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  and  there  was  a  pastel-tinted  photograph  of  him  on  the  TV,  showing  him  naked  on  a  rug  when  young.  &quot;I  bet  the  Arch-  bishop  ate  up  his  gristle,&quot;  Henry  said.  Nanny's  sewing  basket  held  a  pile  of  clippings  recording  her  charge's  present  successes,  cut  out  of  newspapers  and  magazines  to  be  pasted  into  a  scrap-  book.  Henry  looked  at  the  project  with  distaste.  &quot;This  is  one  of  him  with  Queen,&quot;  Nanny  said.  &quot;What  a  becoming  costume  it  is,&quot;  Henry  said.  the     &quot;Daddy  went  to  school  with  him  and  says  he  was  a  squirt,&quot;  said  Olivia,  rocking  contemplatively.  &quot;Not  our  Archbishop.  He  must  be  thinking  of  the  Archbishop  of  York,&quot;  Henry  said,  dealing  with  the  rest  of  Timothy's  cold  plateful.  &quot;Look,  Tim-  othy's  finished.&quot;  Then  he  thundered,  &quot;For  what  we  havebeen  permitted  to  leave  may  the  gods  make  us  truly  grateful,&quot;  speaking  in  Latin,  which  all  of  his  children  grasped.  Nanny  stiffened  at  the  Popery  that  was  rampant  in  the  house  and  said,  &quot;Time  we  had  our  walk.&quot;  Seen  through  the  landing  window,  the  crocodile  of  shivering  children  in  their  [REDACTED]  boots  and  gray  flannel  coats  took  Henry's  energy  with  them.  He  went  back  to  thinking  of  Logan  and  grew  full  of  something  more  cor-  rosive  than  irritation-at  himself,  at  her  weight  and  her  stupidity  over  exams,  at  his  inability  to  talk  easily  to  anyone  over  twelve,  and  at  her  own  nettled  and  self-defacing  awkwardness  when  she  had  once  been  as  tranquil  as  Olivia.  He  tramped  around  the  house  looking  for  his  lost  dictionary,  remembered  the  words  for  diamonds,  spades,  and  hearts,  found  a  pack  of  cards,  and  went  into  the  drawing  room.  &quot;Aha!&quot;  said  the  journalist.  &quot;Mine  host.&quot;  &quot;I  will  answer  your  question,&quot;  the  French  poet  was  saying  to  the  male  556e6974656420537461746573n.  &quot;Frankly,  I  do  not  read.  I  have  not  read  a  newspaper  for  twenty  years.  Without  question,  the  tragedy  of  [REDACTED]  enters  my  work,  but  not  through  the  eyes  and  ears.  Through  some  more  secret  orifice  of  the  spirit.  No  doubt  such  communal  emergencies  account  for  the  fatigued  and  saddened  state  in  which  you  find  me.&quot;  He  beat  his  thorax  and  said,  &quot;This  is  a  cave  of  5B  private  anguish.  They  tell  me  itis  a  strong-  box  full  of  treasure,  but  for  me  it  holds  only  anguish.  If  I  see  a  newspaper  in  a  room,  I  feel  knives,  I  take  flight.&quot;  The  coffee  was  cold.  Henry  said,  &quot;Do  you  know  the  Serbo-Croat  for  clubs?&quot;  &quot;Comment?!&quot;  &quot;I  know  the  Rus-  sian  for  hammer,&quot;  the  woman  Guggenheim  scholar  said  roguishly.  &quot;Because  of  Molotov.  It's  molot,  isn't  it?&quot;  &quot;'The  p-playing-card  club,&quot;  Henry  said.  He  made  a  plait  of  his  dressing-gown  tas-  sel  and  looked  at  Logan,  who  was  struggling  to  remember  the  word.  She  produced  something,  thinking  she  was  onto  it,  but  got  it  wrong,  and  he  crushed  her,  which  was  wretched  for  both  of  them.  &quot;'That's  pretty  impressive,&quot;  the  polit-  ical  journalist  said  to  her.  &quot;Do  you  speak  Serbo-Croat?&quot;  &quot;Father  started  me  on  it  but  I'm  no  good.&quot;  She  said  something  rapidly  to  show  off,  powerless  to  stop  herself,  and  Henry  was  powerless  not  to  cor-  rect  her.  &quot;Is  it  allied  to  Czech?&quot;  someone  asked,  and  she  supplied  comparisons,  with  her  eyes  sliding  round  to  Henry  and  her  cheeks  reddened  in  patches  on  the  bone.  He  tried  laying  out  a  patience  game  to  take  his  mind  off  her,  but  the  attention  of  the  room  seemed  to  have  turned  upon  her  and  he  could  only  watch  her  burn.  &quot;Like  father,  like  daughter.&quot;  Some  man's  voice.  &quot;How  many  languages  do  you  speak?&quot;  &quot;'None,&quot;  she  said,  laughing  loudly.  &quot;I  told  you.  I  failed  my  exams.&quot;  &quot;Your  father  taught  you,  did  he?&quot;  said  another  voice,  meaning  to  be  kind  no  doubt.  &quot;Rare  language,  Serbo-  Croat.&quot;  &quot;I'll  bet  you  speak  French  like  a  native.  And  German.  We  certainly  envy  you  Europeans.  And  of  course  youhad  the  greatest  teacher  in  the  world  right  here.&quot;  &quot;My  German's  hopeless,&quot;  she  said.  Henry  thrashed,  but  the  stammer  had  him  in  irons.  &quot;I'm  fairly  good  at  French,&quot;  she  said.  She  was  looking  at  him  all  the  time,  this  performing  dog,  and  he  could  have  killed  her.  &quot;Daddy's  not  too  disappointed  about  my  French.  I  can  speak  Villon's  French,  too.&quot;  She  " b"reeled  something  off,  watching  him,  and  he  got  up  hopelessly  to  give  them  all  a  brandy.  &quot;C-c-?&quot;  he  asked  the  male  Ameri-  can,  and  gave  it  up  and  poured  a  cognac  whether  the  man  wanted  it  or  not.  &quot;How's  your  Middle  English?&quot;  said  a  voice,  and  Logan  obeyed  the  stimulus  and  said  something  in  Middle  English.  &quot;My,&quot;  said  another  voice.  Henry  took  the  cognac  bottle  to-  ward  the  Bolivian,  whom  he  liked,  and  purposely  upset  a  coffee  table  on  the  way,  in  the  hope  of  making  anything  else  happen.  The  Frenchman  was  nearest  to  the  table  and  exclaimed  over  the  damage  in  a  Com\xc3\xa9die-Francaise  fluster,  which  someone  asked  Logan  to  translate.  She  did,  and  then  announced,  &quot;The  only  language  I  can  really  speak  is  Polish.  Father  taught  at  [REDACTED]  University  in  Polish.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  like  it  there?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  go.  My  mother  had  me.&quot;  Henry  surfaced  beside  the  Bolivian  and  poured  the  nice  man  a  large  slug.  &quot;Say  when,&quot;  he  said  to  him.  &quot;Kiedy,&quot;  Logan  said.  &quot;No!&quot;  Henry  yelled.  &quot;Yes  it  is,&quot;  she  said,  with  a  smug-  ness  that  maddened  him  with  shame.  &quot;N-n-,&quot;  he  said,  holding  up  the  room  in  horror  while  he  fought  for  his  tongue.  &quot;Not  in  P-Polish,  you  little  showoff.  Can't  you  speak  English?&quot;  Logan  ran  from  the  room,  and  there  was  the  sound  of  her  car  roaring  away  down  the  drive.  Henry  immedi-  ately  went  to  sleep.  The  party  looked  at  the  great  man,  snoring  in  his  paja-  mas  in  a  Carolean  tapestry  chair,  and  deduced  that  their  stay  was  over.  One  of  the  famous  drolleries  of  a  Tenterden  weekend.  Anna  was  out  in  the  vegetable  gar-  den,  and  the  party  shook  hands  with  her  cordially  over  the  turnips.  &quot;You've  really  got  to  go?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  know  what  the  Sunday  traffic  is  like.&quot;  &quot;What  a  pity.  I'd  cooked  us  a  sisot-  to.  You've  seen  Henry?&quot;  &quot;Henry's  asleep,&quot;  someone  said.  &quot;Bored  stiff  with  us.  Out  like  a  light,&quot;  said  someone  else.  &quot;I  think  your  daughter  ...  third,  and  faded.  &quot;Where  is  he?&quot;  Anna  asked.  &quot;He  must  have  been  pretending.  He  never  goes  to  sleep  in  the  daytime.  Not  unless  it's  an  emergency.&quot;  &quot;Rather  a  funny  woman  in  her  own  right,&quot;  the  archeologist  said  when  she  had  left  for  the  house.  Rooks  were  wheeling  around  the  roof.  The  Bolivian  looked  stern,  and  moved  up  and  down  in  his  new  English  walking  shoes,  which  he  had  bought  in  Oxford  Street  with  some  of  the  ready  cash  that  he  had  insisted  on  from  a  high-minded  newspaperman  who  thought  he  was  in-  terviewing  him  free  about  being  a  revolutionary.  HENRY  woke  up  at  half  past  six  and  saw  Ragnhilde  and  Anna  drink-  ing  sherry  together.  The  two  had  met  so  seldom  that  he  wondered  if  he  might  be  having  delirium  tremens.  Ragnhilde  had  her  leg  in  a  plaster  cast.  &quot;W-where's  L-Logan?&quot;  he  asked,  banging  against  the  words  with  his  full  weight,  it  seemed.  &quot;In  a  discotheque,&quot;  Ragnhilde  said.  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;  &quot;One  of  you  get  me  two  p-pins.&quot;  &quot;What,  dear?&quot;  said  Anna.  &quot;T  wo  p-pins.&quot;  &quot;Two  pins,&quot;  Ragnhilde  said  to  Anna.  &quot;What  does  he  need  two  pins  for?&quot;  Anna  asked  Ragnhilde.  &quot;He  just  said  he  wanted  two  pins,&quot;  Ragnbhilde  said.  &quot;Stop  talking  like  a  music-hall  act!&quot;  Henry  shouted.  &quot;What  have  you  d-done  to  your  leg?&quot;  He  found  a  dry-  cleaner's  staple  in  the  arm  of  his  dress-  ing  gown  and  started  to  fiddle  it  out.  -Howarp  Moss  &quot;I  fell  down  some  stairs.&quot;  &quot;W-what  are  you  doing  here,  any-  way?  It  c-can't  be  safeto  d-drive,  with  that  l-leg.&quot;  &quot;Anna  asked  me  to  drive  down  be-  cause  she  was  worried  about  you  and  Logan.  The  leg's  fine.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  w-withered?&quot;  Henry  used  the  staple  ends  on  the  balls  of  his  fingers  to  test  whether  he  had  peripheral  neuritis.  It  seemed  possible  that  he  hadn't.  &quot;I  d-don't  need  the  p-pins  any  longer,  th-thank  you.  Hell,  c-can't  at  least  one  of  you  go?&quot;  He  roared  around  the  room,  angry  with  Anna  for  asking  Ragnhilde  to  come  and  angry  with  Ragnhilde  for  breaking  her  leg.  Anna  went  upstairs  to  see  to  the  children  and  Ragnbhilde  laughed  at  him.  He  lay  back  like  a  man  in  a  Bath  chair  and  said,  with  his  eyes  closed,  &quot;The  builders  won't  get  finished.  My  life's  impossible.  My  books  are  all  over  the  place.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  do  to  Logan?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  &quot;She's  in  a  terrible  state.&quot;  &quot;She  was  making  an  exhibition  of  herself.  Give  me  a  whiskey,  please.&quot;  He  looked  at  her  beautiful  back,  which  hadn't  changed  at  all,  and  felt  some  donkey's  kick  in  his  stomach.  Worse  than  theold  days.  &quot;How  can  I  work  when  I  haven't  any  books?&quot;  he  bawled.  &quot;Do  you  hate  my  being  here?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  suppose  Anna  said  she  couldn't  do  anything  with  me.  You've  dyedyour  hair.,&quot;  &quot;I'm  afraid  so.  I  look  awful.  I've  got  old.&quot;  &quot;My  darling,  you  mustn't  say  such  things  of  yourself.&quot;  Now  he  had  sud-  denly  gone  much  too  far  with  her  in  " b"his  head,  and  shook  with  regret  and  happiness.  Fortunately  Ragnhilde  attacked  him  about  Logan.  &quot;You  don't  realize  what  it's  like  for  her  to  be  your  daughter.&quot;  &quot;If  it  makes  her  behave  like  this,  then  you  must  be  encouraging  it.  The  other  children  aren't  hysterical.&quot;  He  looked  at  his  hand  to  see  if  it  was  shak-  ing.  Ragnhilde  propped  her  plaster  cast  on  the  Tudor  firedogs  and  this  made  him  think  of  lighting  a  log  fire.  No,  of  getting  her  to  do  it.  &quot;Light  a  fire,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Do  you  think  I  should?&quot;  &quot;You're  exploiting  your  damned  leg  again.&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  not.It  isn't  my  house.&quot;  &quot;Aren't  you  cold,  then?&quot;  &quot;I  put  a  newspaper  under  my  skirt  before  I  came  down.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  thought  you'd  got  fatter.&quot;  &quot;I  knew  it  would  be  freezing  here.  What  are  those  radiators?&quot;  She  touched  them  and  clenched  her  jaw  with  the  cold  of  them.  &quot;Central  heating,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Bad  for  the  books.&quot;  &quot;Where  are  the  logs?&quot;  &quot;In  the  wine  cooler.&quot;  He  watched  her  try  to  light  the  fire  and  told  her  bitterly  that  she  crackled  as  she  moved.  &quot;Make  a  wigwam,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Otherwise  it'll  never  draw.&quot;  &quot;'You  do  it,  then,&quot;  Ragnhilde  said,  blowing  on  her  fingers.  &quot;I'm  ill.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  you  are,  really.  Shock  about  Logan,  wasn't  it?  She's  all  right.  But  lay  off  her  a  bit.&quot;  He  returned  to  his  health,  making  some  complaint  about  the  food  turning  him  into  an  alcoholic  wreck,  and  asked  her  what  she  was  doing  at  the  moment.  She  propped  herself  in  front  of  the  fire  and  talked  in  a  way  that  interested  him  very  much,  though  her  wigwam  of  kindling  was  a  typical  failure.  Then  she  used  the  Cromwellian  leather  bellows  on  the  cinders  and  burned  through  the  hide  because  she  had  her  head  faced  in  his  direction  to  speak.  It  tore  his  heart  to  look  at  her,  so  he  victimized  her  and  railed  at  her  leg.  He  made  her  cry,  and  got  up  furiously.  &quot;You'd  better  go.  It  doesn't  work,&quot;  he  said.  (It  might  if  he  were  another  person.)  He  drove  on.  'You  keep  catechizing  me.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?  I  haven't  asked  a  single  question,&quot;  she  said,  looking  as  if  she  were  going  to  cry  even  more.  Luckily  she  banged  her  toe  on  a  caster  as  she  was  getting  up  to  borrow  his  handkerchief.  There  was  a  moment  when  Henry  thought  she  might  have  broken  it,  the  big  toe  on  this  remaining  leg.   &quot;Simply  your  presence  is  rebuking!&quot;  he  shouted,  carefully  tending  the  toe.  &quot;Bringing  down  that  cast.  What  a  prop.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  exactly  bring  it.&quot;  &quot;You're  wondering  why  I  became  a  Catholic,  for  instance.  Your  old-fash-  ioned  rationalism.  It's  none  of  your  business.  I  don't  see  why  you're  sur-  prised.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not.&quot;  They  were  both  silent.  She  had  always  imagined  that  the  root  instinct  of  his  conversion  was  terror  of  another  breakup,  and  that  he  must  feel  comforted  by  a  wife  religiously  bound  not  to  quit.  &quot;I  can  see  that  it  makes  sense  for  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  make  that  assumption.&quot;  He  knew  the  idea  she  was  keeping  back,  which  was  correct,  and  her  for-  bearance  struck  him  powerfully.  They  sat  in  truce  for  a  time  without  speak-  ing.  The  fire  went  out,  of  course.  &quot;Anna  keeps  saying  I'm  not  my-  self,&quot;  he  said.  You  seem  exactly  yourself  to  me.&quot;  &quot;I've  gone  wrong  somewhere.&quot;  He  drank  three  whiskeys  in  a  row  at  the  window,  and  then  the  tall  pajama'd  shape  blundered  toward  her,  tilting  like  a  Neolithic  rocking  stone.  &quot;It's  the  stammer.&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  self-pitying.&quot;  &quot;In  any  other  country  I'm  all  right,  don't  you  see?&quot;  &quot;No,  in  other  countries  you  just  don't  have  the  stammer.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  seem  to  say  what  I  mean  any  longer.  Things  don't  happen  in  the  way  I  intend  them  to.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(NO.)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Perhaps  I'll  go  and  live  abroad.&quot;  &quot;You'd  mope  to  death.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  understand.  There's  something  lost.  I  can't  put  it  right.  My  real  life  is  the  one  I  don't  lead.&quot;  &quot;Of  course.&quot; "