 b"&quot;LOOK  at  that  girl  skil&quot;  The  ex-  I  clamation  arose  at  Ethan's  side  as  if,  in  the  disconnecting  cold,  a  rib  of  his  had  cried  out;  but  it  was  his  friend,  friend  and  fellow-teacher,  an  inferior  teacher  but  superior  skier,  Matt  Langley,  admiring  Becky,  Ethan's  own  daughter.  It  took  an  effort,  in  this  air  like  slices  of  transparent  metal  inter-  posed  everywhere,  to  make  these  con-  nections  and  to  relate  the  young  girl,  her  round  face  red  with  windburn  as  she  skimmed  down  the  run-out  slope,  to  himself.  She  was  his  daughter,  age  thirteen.  He  had  twin  sons,  two  years  younger,  and  his  attention  had  always  been  focussed  on  theirskiing,  on  the  irksome  comedy  of  their  double  needs-the  four  boots  to  lace,  the  four  mittens  to  find-and  then  their  cute  yet  grim  competition  as  now  one  and  now  the  other  gained  the  edge  in  the  expertise  of  gelandesprungs  and  slalom  form.  On  their  trips  north  into  the  mountains,  Becky  had  come  along  for  the  ride.  &quot;Look  how  solid  she  is,&quot;  Matt  went  on.  &quot;She  doesn't  cheat  on  it  like  your  boys-those  feet  are  absolutely  together.&quot;  The  girl,  grinning  as  if  she  could  hear  herself  praised,  wiggle-wag-  gled  to  a  flashy  stop  that  sprayed  snow  over  the  men's  ski  tips.  &quot;Where's  Mommy?&quot;  she  asked.  Ethan  answered,  &quot;She  went  with  the  boys  into  the  lodge.  They  couldn't  take  it.&quot;  Their  sinewy  little  male  bodies  had  no  insulation;  weeping  and  shiver-  ing,  they  had  begged  to  go  in  after  a  single  T-bar  run.  &quot;What  sissies,&quot;  Becky  said.  Matt  said,  &quot;This  wind  is  wicked.  And  it's  picking  up.  You  should  have  been  here  at  nine;  Lord,  it  was  lovely.  All  that  fresh  powder,  and  not  a  stir  of  wind.&quot;  Becky  told  him,  &quot;Dumb  Tommy  couldn't  find  his  mittens,  we  spent  an  hour  looking,  and  then  Daddy  got  the  Jeep  stuck.&quot;  Ethan,  alerted  now  for  signs  of  the  wonderful  in  his  daughter,  was  struck  by  the  strange  fact  that  she  was  making  conversation.  Unafraid,  she  was  talking  to  Matt  without  her  father's  intercession.  &quot;Mr.  Langley  was  saying  how  nice-  ly  you  were  skiing.&quot;  \xc2\xabYou're  Olympic  material,  Becky.&quot;  The  girl  perhaps  blushed;  but  her  cheeks  could  get  no  redder.  Her  eyes,  which,  were  she  a  child,  she  would  have  instantly  averted,  remained  a  sec-  ond  on  Matt's  face,  as  if  to  estimate  how  much  he  meant  it.  &quot;It's  easy  down  here,&quot;  Becky  said.  &quot;It's  babyish.&quot;  Ethan  asked,  &quot;Do  you  want  to  go  up  to  the  top?&quot;  He  was  freezing  standing  still,  and  the  gondola  would  be  shelter  from  the  wind.  Her  eves  shifted  to  his,  with  another  unconsciously  thoughtful  hesitation.  &quot;Sure,  If  you  want  to.&quot;  &quot;Come  along,  Matt?&quot;  &quot;Thanks,  no.  It's  too  rough  for  me;  I've  had  enough  runs.  This  is  the  trouble  with  January-once  it  stops  snowing,  the  wind  comes  up.  I'll  keep  Elaine  company  in  the  lodge.&quot;  Matt  himself  had  no  wife,  no  children.  At  thirty-eight,  he  was  asfree  as  his  stu-  dents,  as  light  on  his  skis  and  as  full  of  brave  know-how.  &quot;In  case  of  frost-  bite,&quot;  heshouted  after  them,  &quot;rub  snow  on  it.&quot;  Becky  effortlessly  skated  ahead  to  the  lift  shed.  The  encumbered  motion  of  walking  on  skis,  not  natural  to  him,  made  Ethan  feel  asthmatic:  a  fish  out  of  water.  He  touched  his  parka  pocket,  to  check  that  the  inhalator  was  there.  As  a  child  he  had  imagined  death  as  something  attacking  from  outside,  but  now  he  saw  that  it  was  carried  within;  we  nurse  it  for  years,  and  it  grows.  The  clock  on  the  lodge  wall  said  a  quarter  to  noon.  The  giant  thermome-  ter  read  two  degrees  above  zero.  The  racks  outside  were  dense  as  hedges  with  idle  skis.  Crowds,  any  sensation  of  crowding  or  delay,  quickened  his  asth-  ma;  as  therapy  he  imagined  the  empti-  ness,  the  blue  freedom,  at  thetop  of  the  mountain.  The  clatter  of  machin-  ery  inside  the  shed  was  comforting,  and  enough  teen-age  boys  were  boarding  gondolas  to  make  the  ascent  seem  nor-  maland  safe.  Ethan's  breathing  eased.    Becky  proficiently  handed  her  poles  to  the  loader  points  up;  her  father  was  al-  ways  caught  by  surprise,  and  often  as  not  fumbled  the  little  maneuver  of  let-  ting  his  skis  be  taken  from  him.  Until,  five  years  ago,  he  had  become  an  assist-  ant  professor  at  a  New  Hampshire  col-  lege  anhour  to  the  south,  he  had  never  skied;  he  had  lived  in  those  Middle  At-  lantic  cities  where  snow,  its  moment  of  virgin  beauty  by,  is  only  an  encumber-  ing  nuisance,  a  threat  of  suffocation.  Whereas  his  children  had  grown  upon  skis.  Alone  with  his  daughter  in  the  rum-  bling  isolation  of  the  gondola,  he  want-  ed  to  explore  her,  and  found  her  strange-strange  in  her  uninguisitive  child's  silence,  her  accustomed  poise  in  this  ascending  egg  of  metal.  A  dark  figure  with  spreading  legs  veered  out  of  control  beneath  them,  fell  forward,  and  vanished.  Ethan  cried  out,  astonished,  scandalized;  he  imagined  the  man  had  buried  himself  alive.  Becky  was  barely  amused,  and  looked  away  before  the  dark  spots  struggling  in  the  drift  were  lost  from  sight.  As  if  she  might  know,  Ethan  asked,  &quot;Who  was  that?&quot;  &quot;Some  kid.&quot;  Kids,  her  tone  implied,  were  in  plentiful  supply;  one  could  be  spared.  He  offered  to  dramatize  the  adven-  ture  ahead  of  them:  &quot;Do  you  think  we'll  freeze  at  the  top?&quot;  &quot;Not  exactly.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  think  it'll  be  like?&quot;  &quot;Miserable.&quot;  &quot;Why  are  we  doing  this,  do  you  think?&quot;  &quot;Because  we  paid  the  money  for  the  all-day  lift  ticket.&quot;  &quot;Becky,  you  think  you're  pretty  smart,  don't  you?&quot;  &quot;Not  [REDACTED];  The  gondola  rumbled  and  lurched  into  the  shed  at  the  top;  an  attendant  opened  the  door,  and  there  was  a  howling  mixed  of  wind  and  of  boys  whooping  to  keep  warm.  He  was  roughly  handed  two  pairs  of  skis,  and  the  handler,  muffled  to  the  eyes  with  a  scarf,  stared  as  if  astonished  that  Ethan  was  so  old.  All  the  others  struggling  into  skis  in  the  lee  of  the  shed  were  adolescent  boys.  Students:  after  fifteen  years  of  teaching,  Ethan  tended  to  flinch  from  youth-its  harsh  noises,  its  cheerful  rapacity,  its  cruel  onward  flow  as  one  class  replaced  another,  ate  a  year  of  his  life,  and  was  replaced  by  an-  other.  Away  from  the  shelter  of  the  shed,  the  wind  was  a  high  monotonous  pitch  of  pain.  His  cheeks  instantly  ached,  and  the  hinges  linking  the  elements  of  his  face  seemed  exposed.  His  septum  " b"tingled  like  glass-the  rim  of  a  glass  being  rubbed  by  a  moist  finger  to  produce  a  note.  Drifts  ribbed  the  trail,  obscuring  Becky's  ski  tracks  seconds  after  she  made  them,  and  at  each  push  through  the  heaped  snow  his  scope  of  breathing  narrowed.  By  the  time  he  reached  the  first  steep  section,  the  left  half  of  his  back  hurt  as  it  did  only  in  the  pan-  ic  of  a  full  asthmatic  attack,  and  his  skis,  ignored,  too  heavy  to  manage,  spread  and  swept  him  toward  a  snowbank  at  the  side  of  the  trail.  He  was  bent  far  forward  but  kept  his  bal-  ance;  the  snow  kissed  his  face  lightly,  instantly,  all  over;  he  straightened  up,  refreshed  by  the  shock,  thankful  not  to  have  lost  a  ski.  Down  the  slope  Becky  had  halted  and  was  star-  ing  upward  at  him,  worried.  A  huge  blowing  feather,  a  parti-  tion  of  snow,  came  between  them.  The  cold,  unprecedent-  ed  in  his  experience,  shone  through  his  clothes  like  furious  light,  and  as  he  rummaged  through  his  parka  for  the  inhalator  he  seemed  to  be  searching  glass  shelves  backed  by  a  black  wall.  He  found  it,  its  icy  plastic  the  touch  of  life,  a  clumsy  key.  Gasping,  he  exhaled,  put  it  into  his  mouth,  and  inhaled;  the  isoproterenol  spray,  chilled  into  drops,  opened  his  lungs  enough  for  him  to  call  to  his  daughter,  &quot;Keep  moving!  T'll  catch  up!&quot;  Becky's  eyes  and  face  hesitated,  but  she  obeyed.  Easily,  solid  on  her  skis,  she  swung  down  among  the  moguls  and  wind-bared  ice,  and  became  small,  and  again  waited.  The  moderate  slope  seemed  a  cliff;  if  he  fell  and  sprained  anything,  he  would  freeze.  His  entire  body  would  become  solid,  impermeable,  locked  tight  against  air  and  light  and  thought.  His  legs  trembled;  his  breath  moved  in  and  out  of  a  narrow  slot  beneath  the  pain  in  his  back.  The  cold  and  blowing  snow  all  around  him  con-  stituted  an  immense  crowding,  but  there  was  no  way  out  of  this  white  cave  but  to  slide  downward  toward  the  dark  spot  that  was  his  daughter.  He  had  forgotten  all  his  lessons.  Leaning  back-  ward  in  an  infant's  tense  snowplow,  he  floundered  through  layers  of  powder  and  ice.  &quot;You  O.K.,  Daddy?&quot;  Her  stare  was  wide,  its  fright  underlined  by  a  pale  patch  on  her  right  cheek.  He  used  the  inhalator  again  and  gave  himself  breath  to  tell  her,  &quot;I'm  fine.  Let's  get  down  before  I  die.&quot;    In  this  way,  in  steps  of  her  leading  and  waiting,  they  worked  down  the  mountain,  out  of  the  worst  wind,  into  the  lower  trail  that  ran  between  birch-  es  and  hemlocks.  The  cold  had  the  quality  not  of  absence  but  of  force:  an  inverted  burning.  The  last  time  Becky  stopped  and  waited,  the  colorless  cres-  cent  on  her  scarlet  cheek  disturbed  him,  reminded  him  of  some  injunction,  but  he  could  find  in  his  brain,  whittled  to  a  dim  determination  to  persist,  only  the  advice  to  keep  going,  toward  shelter  and  warmth.  She  told  him,  at  a  division  of  trails,  &quot;This  is  the  easier  way.&quot;  &quot;Let's  go  the  quicker  way,&quot;  he  said,  and  in  this  last  descent  recovered  the  rhythm-knees  together,  shoulders  fac-  ing  the  valley,  weight  forward  as  if  in  the  moment  of  release  from  a  diving  board-not  a  resistance  but  a  joyous  acceptance  of  falling.  They  reached  the  base  lodge,  and  with  unfeeling  hands  removed  their  skis.  Pushing  into  the  cafeteria,  Ethan  saw  in  the  momentary  mirror  of  the  door  window  that  his  face  was  a  spectre's;  chin,  nose,  and  eyebrows  had  retained  the  snow  from  that  near-fall  near  the  top.  &quot;Becky,  look,&quot;  he  said,  turning  in  the  crowded  warmth  and  clatter  inside  the  door.  &quot;I'm  a  monster.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  your  face  was  absolutely  white,  I  didn't  know  whether  to  tell  you  or  not,  I  thought  it  might  scare  you.&quot;  He  touched  the  pale  patch  on  her  cheek,  &quot;Feel  anything?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Nn.\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;Damn.  I  should  have  rubbed  snow  on  it.&quot;  Matt  and  Elaine  and  the  twins,  flushed  and  stripped  of  their  parkas,  had  eaten  lunch;  shouting  and  laugh-  ing  with  a  strange  guilty  shrillness,  they  said  that  there  had  been  repeated  loudspeaker  announcements  not  to  go  up  to  the  top  without  face  masks,  be-  cause  of  frostbite.  They  had  expected  Ethan  and  Becky  to  come  back  down  on  the  gondola,  as  others  had,  after  tasting  the  top.  &quot;It  never  occurred  to  us,&quot;  Ethan  said.  He  took  the  blame  upon  himself  by  adding,  &quot;I  wanted  to  see  the  girl  ski.&quot;  HEIR  common  adventure,  and  the  guilt  of  his  having  given  her  frostbite,  bound  Becky  and  Ethan  to-  gether  in  complicity  for  the  rest  of  the  day.  They  arrived  home  as  light  was  leaving  even  the  tips  of  the  hills;  Elaine  had  invited  Matt  to  supper,  and  while  the  windows  of  the  house  burned  gold-  en  Ethan  shovelled  out  the  Jeep.  The  house  was  a  typical  New  Hampshire  farmhouse,  less  than  two  miles  from  the  college,  on  the  side  of  a  hill,  over-  looking  what  had  been  a  pasture,  with  the  usual  capacious  porch  running  around  three  sides,  cluttered  with  cord-  wood  and  last  summer's  lawn  furni-  ture.  The  woodsy  sheltered  scent  of  " b"these  porches,  the  sense  of  rural  waste  space,  never  failed  to  please  Ethan,  who  had  been  raised  in  a  [REDACTED]  half  house,  then  a  West  Side  apartment,  and  just  before  college  a  row  house  in  [REDACTED],  with  his  grandparents.  The  wind  had  been  left  behind  in  the  mountains.  The  air  was  as  still  as  the  stars.  Shovelling  the  light  dry  snow  became  alazy  dance  done  without  re-  sistance.  But  when  he  bent  suddenly,  his  knees  creaked,  and  his  breathing  shortened  so  that  he  paused.  A  sudden  rectangle  of  light  was  flung  from  the  shadows  of  the  porch.  Becky  came  out  into  the  cold  with  him.  She  was  carry-  ing  a  lawn  rake.  He  asked  her,  &quot;Should  you  be  out  again?  How's  your  frostbite?&quot;  Though  she  was  a  distance  away,  there  was  no  need,  in  the  immaculate  air,  to  raise  his  voice.  &quot;It's  O.K.  It  kind  of  tingles.  And  under  my  chin.  Mommy  made  me  put  on  a  scarf.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  lawn  rake  for?&quot;  &quot;It's  a  way  you  can  make  a  path.  It  really  works.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  you  make  a  path  to  the  ga-  rage  and  after  I  get  my  breath  I'll  see  if  I  can  get  the  Jeep  back  in.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  having  asthma?&quot;  &quot;A  little.&quot;  &quot;We  were  reading  about  it  in  biolo-  gy.  Dad,  see,  it's  kind  of  a  tree  inside  you,  and  every  branch  has  a  little  ring  of  muscle  around  it,  and  they     tighten.&quot;  From  her  gestures  in  the  dark  she  was  demonstrating,  with  mit-  tens  on.  What  she  described,  of  course,  was  classic  unalloyed  asthma,  whereas  his  was  shading  into  emphysema,  which  could  only  worsen.  But  he  liked  being  lectured  to-preferred  it,  indeed,  to  lecturing-and  as  the  minutes  of  com-  panionable  silence  with  his  daughter  passed  hetook  inward  notes  on  the  bright  quick  impressions  flowing  over  him  like  a  continuous  voice.  The  silent  cold.  The  stars.  Orion  behind  an  elm.  Minute  scintillae  in  the  snow  at  his  feet.  His  daughter's  strange  black  bulk  against  the  white;  the  solid  grace  that  had  stolen  upon  her.  The  conspiracy  of  love.  His  father  and  he  shovelling  the  car  free  from  a  sudden  unwelcome  storm  in  [REDACTED],  instantly  gray  with  soot,  the  undercurrent  of  desperation,  his  father  a  salesman  and  must  get  to  [REDACTED].  Got  to  get  to  [REDACTED],  boy,  get  to  [REDACTED]  or  bust.  Dead  of  a  heart  attack  at  forty-seven.  Ethan  tossed  a  shovelful  intothe  air  so  the  scintillae  flashed  in  the  steady  golden  note  from  the  house  windows.  Elaine  and  Matt  sitting  flushed  at  the  lodge  table,  parkas  off,  in  deshabille,  as  if  sitting  up  in  bed.  Matt's  way  of  turn-  ing  ahalf  circle  on  the  top  of  a  mogul,  light  as  a  diver.  The  cancerous  un-  wieldiness  of  Ethan's  own  skis.  His  jealousy  of  his  students,  the  many-  headed  immortality  of  their  annual  renewal.  The  flawless  tall  cruelty  of  the  stars.  Orion  involved  with  the  silhouet-  ted  elm.  A  black  tree  inside  him.  His  daughter,  busily  sweeping  with  the  rake,  childish  yet  lithe,  so  curi-  ously  demonstrating  this  preference  for  his  com-  pany.  Feminine  of  her  to  forgive  him  her  frostbite.  Perhaps,  flattered  on  skis,  felt  the  cold  her  element.  Her  womanhood  soon  enough  to  be  smothered  in  warmth.  A  plow  a  mile  away  painstakingly  scraped.  He  was  missing  the  point  of  the  lecture.  The  point  was  unstated:  an  absence.  He  was  look-  ing  upon  his  daughter  as  a  woman  but  without  lust.  The  music  around  him  was  being  produced,  in  the  zero  air,  like  a  finger  on  crystal,  by  this  hol-  lowness,  this  generosity  of  negation.  Without  lust,  without  jealousy.  Space  seemed  love,  bestowed  to  be  free  in,  and  coldness  the  price.  He  felt  joined  to  the  great  dead  whose  words  it  was  his  duty  to  teach.  The  Jeep  came  up  unprotestingly  from  the  fluffy  snow.  It  looked  hap-  py  to  be  penned  in  the  garage  with  Elaine's  station  wagon,  and  the  skis,  and  the  oiled  band  saw,  and  the  power  mower  tensely  waiting  for  spring.  Ethan  was  happy,  precariously  so,  so  that  rather  than  break  he  uttered  a  sound  :  &quot;Becky?&quot;  &quot;Yeah?&quot;  &quot;You  want  to  know  what  else  Mr.  Langley  said?&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  They  trudged  toward  the  porch,  up  the  path  the  gentle  rake  had  cleared.  &quot;He  said  you  ski  better  than  the  boys.&quot;  &quot;I  bet,&quot;  she  said,  and  raced  to  the  porch,  and  in  the  precipitate  way,  eva-  sive  and  female  and  pleased,  that  she  flung  herself  to  the  top  step  he  glimpsed  something  generic  and  joyous,  a  pag-  eant  that  would  leave  him  behind. "