HE  NAKED~APE  CRISIS  HIS  is  a  last-ditch  attempt  to  differentiate  myself  from  a  ten-  spined  stickleback.  The  thing  began  when  naturalists  grew  tired  of  shooting  and  stuffing  the  creatures  they  loved,  or  pinning  them  in  rows  in  glass  cases,  and  began  peering  at  them  instead  in  the  wild  state.  Fabre  spied  on  beetles.  Eliot  Howard  spent  a  life-  time  watching  warblers  through  bi-  noculars  and  came  up  with  his  theory  of  bird  territory.  Julian  Huxley  ob-  served  crested  grebes  as  they  had  never  been  observed  before.  Konrad  Lorenz  kept  a  close  eye  on  jackdaws,  geese,  and  dogs.  Niko  Tinbergen  en-  listed  in  a  herring-gull  colony.  Soon  there  was  scarcely  a  bird,  an  ape,  a  gazelle,  a  dragonfly  whose  bowings  and  scrapings,  preening,  threats,  em-  purplings,  and  sac-swellings  were  not  being  observed  somewhere  by  some-  body.  Amid  the  welter  of  head-nod-  dings  and  twig-fiddlings  thus  brought  to  light,  it  was  natural  that  certain  re-  semblances  between  animal  and  human  behavior  should  benoted.  When  a  gull  pulls  furiously  at  grass  because  (sot  they  say)  it  is  frustrated  by  two  antagonistic  drives,  its  affinity  with  a  man  who  lights  a  cigarette  while  trying  to  decide  between  Scotch  and  bourbon  is  fairly  clear.  It  had  not  at  this  stage  been  sug-  gested  that  because  Horace  Walpole  decorated  Strawberry  Hill  with  color-  ful  Gothic  bric-a-brac  he  was  practi-  cally  indistinguishable  from  a  bower-  bird.  The  differences  between  man  and  beast  were  at  first  ap-  parent  even  to  the  animal-  behavior  observers,  or  eth-  ologists,  who  were  at  pains  to  remind  their  readers  that  animals  were  not  human.  &quot;Let  us  have  none  of  this  anthropomorphism!&quot;  they  cried,  carefully  putting  quo-  tation  marks  around  any  tiresomely  humanoid  words  like  &quot;affection,&quot;  &quot;cruel,&quot;  or  &quot;happy&quot;  that  had  crept  unawares  into  their  texts.  As  recently  as  1953,  Tinbergen  was  writing,  &quot;It  is  scarcely  necessary  to  stress  the  dif-  ferences  in  type  of  organisation  between  human  societies  and  those  of  gulls.&quot;  It  is  highly  necessary  now.  Scarcely  had  these  ethologists  finished  shaking  their  fingers  at  sentimentalists  who  spoke  of  animals  as  though  they  were  men  when  they  themselves  set  to  work  to  prove  that  men  were  animals.  Zoo-  morphism  became  rife.  Mr.  Robert  Ardrey  has  devoted  a  wholebook  to  it,  coming  up  with  the  conclusion  that  the  Italian  lives  in  a  moyew  and  bases  his  home  life  on  that  of  the  sportive  lemaur,  whereas  the  American,  at  home  in  a  nation,  is  more  of  a  howling  monkey.  Mr.  Ardrey  himself,  when  engulfed  at  the  time  of  Pearl  Harbor  in  a  wave  of  patriotic  fervor,  hardly  knew  whether  he  was  a  chacma  baboon  ora  roebuck.  Zoologist  Dr.  Desmond  Mor-  ris,  whose  book  about  man,  &quot;The  Na-  ked  Ape,&quot;  has  lately  appeared,  seems  to  be  in  hardly  better  case.  &quot;The  book,&quot;  he  has  explained  to  an  interviewer,  &quot;deals  with  sex,  fighting,  feeding,  pa-  rental  care,  exploration,  and  comfort.  They're  exactly  the  same  chapter  head-  ings  I  used  for  my  thesis  on  the  10-  Spined  Stickleback.  I  wanted  to  demon-  strate  how  alike  we  all  are  in  certain  respects.&quot;  Ishall  not  read  it.  Though  I  prefer  to  do  my  fighting  and  feeding  without  constantly  comparing  myself  with  a  stickleback,  these  sociological  general-  izations  do  not  especially  alarm  me.  If  it  is  Mr.  Ardrey's  territorial  imperative  that  urges  me  and  the  rest  of  my  troop  to  defend  ourselves,  or  if  I  am  called  upon,  as  indicated  by  Dr.  Lorenz,  to  discharge  my  aggressive  drives  after  the  manner  of  a  dabbling  duck,  I  shall  not  make  an  issue  of  it.  It  is  in  the  particu-  lars  of  behavior,  rather  than  the  gener-  al,  that  I  wish  to  dissociate  myself  from  the  animal  kingdom.  &quot;It  is  tempting,&quot;  writes  Dr.  Lorenz,  &quot;to  interpret  the  greeting  smile  [in  man]  as  an  appeasing  ceremony  which  ...  has  evolved  by  ritualization  of  redirected  threatening.  The  friendly  tooth-baring  of  very  polite  Japanese  lends  also  supported  by  the  fact  that  in  genuinely  emotional  intensive  greetings  between  two  friends,  the  smile  sur-  prisingly  becomes  aloud  laugh.  On  considering  one's  own  feelings  it  seems  incongruous  that,  on  meeting  a  friend  after  a  long  separation,  the  roar  of  laughter  breaks  forth  unexpectedly  from  the  depths  of  instinctive  strata  of  our  personality.  This  behaviour  of  two  reunited  human  beings  must  inevitably  remind  an  ob-  jective  behaviour  investigator  of  the  triumph  ceremony  of  greylag  geese.&quot;  I  have  not  had  the  good  fortune  to  be  present  when  Dr.  Lorenz  meets  an  old  friend  after  a  Jong  separation,  and  cannot  tell  whether  I  should  be  objec-  tive  enough  to  be  reminded  of  greylag  geese.  But  I  am  by  no  means  ready,  on  the  available  evidence,  to  have  the    smiles  of  my  friends  written  off  as  redirected  threatening.  If  the  good  Doc-  tor  had  made  as  intensive  a  study  of  long-lost  friends  as  he  has  of  geese,I  would  give  him  best.  But  has  he?  Ethologists  do  not  dream  of  making  assertions,  drawing  conclusions,  evoly-  ing  theories  about  baboons  or  even  three-spined  sticklebacks  without  pro-  longed  observation  and  experiment.  They  put  rats  in  mazes  and  make  |,  oyster-catchers  sit  on  square  eggs.  I  have  not  heard  of  similar  work  being  done  on  Italians  or  old  friends.  I  my-  self  once  broke  into  loud  laughter  on  meeting  a  brother  after  years  of  separa-  tion.  But  there  was  an  extraneous  fac-  tor,  which  seemed  to  me  to  eliminate  my  instinctive  strata.  His  face,  after  a  lengthy  tour  in  [REDACTED]  Africa,  had  be-  come  unexpectedly  round  and  red,  and  upon  this  tropical  moon  he  had  chosen  to  percha  small  brown  trilby  hat.  Dr.  Lorenz  had  not  thought  of  that.  He  had  better  put  a  small  brown  hat  on  a  greylag  goose  and  see  what  sort  of  triumph  ceremony  that  evokes.  The  horse  in  my  paddock  inclines  f  its  ears  toward  me  when  I  call  but  promptly  flicks  one  of  them  to  the  north-northeast  if  some  more  interest-  ing  sound,  such  as  a  power  mower,  starts  up.  A  Mrs.  Dinwiddy,  to  whom  I  sometimes  speak  at  sherry  parties,  un-  deniably  listens  with  at  least  one  ear  to  what  the  couple  behind  usare  saving.  An  ethologist  would  at  once  dismiss  her  as  a  horse.  But  she  is  not.  The  point  I  wish  to  emphasize,  before  man  has  been  stripped  of  every  vestige  of  dignity,  is  that  her  ears  remain  stationary  through-  out.  This  lack  of  overt  physical  re-  sponse  to  stimuli  is  the  shining  glory  of  the  human  race.  We  must  cling  to  it.  What  is  urgently  wanted  is  a  close  study  of  human  behavior  designed  to  demonstrate  how  unlike  ring-tailed  le-  murs  we  all  are  in  certain  respects.  It  must  be  undertaken  by  a  man  objective  enough  to  seek  out  behavioral  norms  before  leaping  to  conclusions.  He  will  have  a  job  on  his  hands,  though.  It  is  a  great  deal  more  difficult  to  observe  our  own  species,  or  order,  under  the  proper  conditions  than  itis  to  watch  lemurs  or  owls.  I  had  just  got  my  wickerwork  blind  erected  in  one  of  [REDACTED]'s  public  parks,  waved  goodbye  to  my  assistant,  and  settled  down  to  watch  the  behavior  patterns  of  urban  {}{  courting  couples  when  a  helmet  was  |  pushed  through  the  flap  and  its  owner  asked  me  what  I  thought  I  was  up  to.  With  crested  grebes,  if  two  persons  en-  ter  a  blind  and  one  goes  away,  the  birds  are  satisfied  and  resume  their  occupations.  But  policemencan  count.  So  val-  uable  time  had  to  be  wasted  while  I  tried  to  explain  the  urgent  need  for  statistical  proof  that  the  human  race,  ethologically  speaking,  differs  marked-  ly  from  the  rest  of  the  animal  kingdom.  &quot;For  instance,  the  ruff,&quot;  I  told  him,  &quot;when  ready  to  mate,  turns  white,  black,  purple,  chestnut,  or  buff  round  the  neck,  and  develops  uncouth  ear  tufts.  I  expect  to  show  thatthat  is  an  awkwardness  from  which  43616e616461ers,  in  normal  circumstances,  are  free.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  so?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  what's  more,  the  head  of  the  [REDACTED]  African  fresh-  water  fish  Tilepia  zilli  becomes  velvet  black  at  such  times,  with  turquoise  spots,  while  the  throat  and  chest  turn  blood  red.  Even  if  some  ethologists  may  conceivably  be  reminded-&quot;  &quot;Binoculars,  too,  I  see,&quot;  the  officer  said,  making  anote  of  it.  &quot;Naturally.  You  may  not  be  aware  that  the  American  sage  grouse,  by  ex-  pansion  and  contraction  of  the  neck-  sacs  during  courting,  produces  a  sound  that  can  be  heard  a  mile  away  on  a  still  morning.  For  comparative  pur-  poses,  it  is  essential  to  be  able  to  carry  outlong-  range  observations.  After  eat-  ing  eels-&quot;  Shocking,  this  is,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Peep-  ing  Tom.  It's  an  offense.&quot;  I  had  been  about  to  tell  him,  as  a  further  instance  of  the  kind  of  be-  havior  rarely  found  in  human  beings,  whether  courting  or  not,  that  the  com-  mon  heron,  Ardea  cinerea,  removes  eel  slime  from  its  plumage  by  sprinkling  its  head  and  shoulders  with  a  kind  of  powder  secreted  in  a  pocket  near  the  base  of  the  tail.  But  it  was  clear  by  this  time  that  he  was  the  sortof  man  hardly  worth  distinguishing  from  an  animal.  You  get  these  zoomorphic  freaks.  &quot;For  example,&quot;  I  said  instead,  trying  to  find  a  homelier  example,  &quot;when  feeding  her  young,  does  your  wife  regurgitate  half-digested  fish?&quot;  He  turned  so  extraordinary  a  color  round  the  neck  that  a  less  objective  observer  might  have  supposed  he  was  ready  to  mate.  But  I  have  been  long  cnough  at  the  game  to  recognizeag-  gression  when  I  see  it,  whether  in  stickleback  or  man.  We  now  had  an  al-  most  perfect  setup  for  a  demonstration  of  the  territorial  imperative.  The  blind  was  my  territory,  and  so  long  as  I  was  in  it  I  »ust  be  the  dominant  individual.  The  policeman,  however,  had  pretty  obviously  never  read  Mr.  Ardrey,  so  I  took  to  my  heels.  This  proves,  I  think,  that  I  am  less  of  a  chacma  baboon  than  some  other  ethologists  I  could  name. 