 CHOKE  ME  WITH  FRIGATE  BIRDS  MPIRES  acquired  by  conquest,  trade,  missionaries,  or  accident  are  transitory.  The  only  satis-  factory  way  to  take  over  territory  is  by  purchase,  if  only  because  a  receipted  bill  of  sale  frees  the  grandchildren  of  empire  builders  from  their  customary  heavy  burden  of  guilt.  Here  in  Eng-  land,  where  I  live,  we  have  always  looked  with  envy  on  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  its  quick,  imperial  way  with  a  check-  book.  We  see  the  people  of  Louisiana  still  ground  down  under  the  oppressor's  heel,  without  hope  of  hearing  or  re-  dress,  simply  because  the  original  deal  was  financial.  [REDACTED]  has  been  slow  to  follow  suit,  but  has  at  last  begun  stealthily  to  buy  up  a  few  very  small  islands  here  and  there.  She  has  lost  empires  before  now  and  is  not  easily  discouraged.  Later  on,  when  there  is  more  cash  in  the  kitty,  she  may  even  make  an  offer  for  [REDACTED],  which  must  be  about  due  to  come  on  the  market  again.  Nobody  will  grudge  [REDACTED]  success  in  this  new  venture,  surely?  A  new  British  [REDACTED],  against  which  no  charge  more  serious  than  neo-financialism  could  possibly  be  brought,  would  bea  stabilizing  factor  in  the  world,  a  bridge  between  continents,  a  useful  counter-  weight  to  the  Afro-Asian  bloc.  It  is  hard  to  see  how  even  de  Gaulle  could  take  it  as  a  personal  affront.  But,  amaz-  ingly,  the  plan  is  already  under  heavy  attack.  Its  very  existence,  even  before  itis  out  of  the  embryo  stage,  is  threat-  ened-not  from  overseas,  not  through  any  fresh  upsurge  of  anti-British  feel-  ing,  not  on  political  or  military  grounds  at  all.  The  opposition  comes  from  a  dedicated  group  of  tortoise-lovers  on  the  home  front:  Sir:  In  view  of  the  recent  announce-  ment  that  [REDACTED]  has  purchased  three  islands  in  the  Indian  Ocean  in  order  to  build  landing-strips  for  planes,  it  is  im-  portant  to  know  what  steps  are  being  taken  to  preserve  the  native  flora  and  fauna  of  these  islands.  For  instance,  one  island  mentioned,  Aldabra,  is  the  home  of  a  species  of  giant  land  tortoise  to  be  found,  I  believe,  no-  where  else  in  the  world.  There  is  also  a  race  of  black  goats,  and  there  are  cuck-  008,  too....  Since  this  letter  appeared  in  the  Lon-  don  Times  some  months  ago,a  steady  stream  of  protests,  designed  to  deny  Aldabra  to  [REDACTED]  as  a  base  and  secure  it  forthe  resident  tortoises,  has  poured  in  to  the  country's  leading  organ  of  opinion.  Every  kind  of  disaster  has  been  forecast  for  the  island's  indigenous  life,  and  many  zoologists,  not  content  with  the  deployment  of  such  massive  artil-  lery  as  &quot;unique  ecology&quot;  and  &quot;labora-  tory  of  evolution,&quot;  have  assumed  the  mantle  of  hydrographers,  technologists,  civil  engineers,  and  strategists.  &quot;The  sea  roars  through  at  every  tide,&quot;  ob-  jects  a  Bristol  zoologist,  in  a  letter  em-  phasizing  the  difficulties  of  damming  Aldabra's  lagoon,  &quot;bringing  with  it  turtles,  manta  rays,  and  many  danger-  ous  sharks.  The  construction  gang  will  be  in  constant  danger....&quot;  Frigate  birds,  it  has  been  pointed  out,  will  choke  the  intakes  of  jet  airplanes.  It  was  per-  haps  this  last  consideration  that  caused  the  British  government  to  announce  that  the  Aldabra  project  has  been  abandoned,  at  least  for  the  time  being.  Is  it  no  longer  possible  to  have  a  soft  spot  not  only  for  land  tortoises  and  black  goats  but  also  for  empires,  which,  with  all  their  faults,  have  done  much  to  concentrate  and  crystallize  the  great  forward  movements  of  mankind?  Room  must  be  found  in  the  mighty  tapestry  of  human  achievement  for  ex-  ploration,  exploitation,  acquisition,  as  well  as  for  the  pygmy  hippopotamus  and  the  barking  seal.  Looking  back  (as  is  sometimes  necessary  if  we  are  to  know  in  which  direction  we  are  go-  ing),  itis  hard  tosee  how  history  would  have  got  itself  written  at  all  had  naturalists  from  the  earliest  times  been  possessed  of  the  zeal,  influence,  and  sheer  genius  for  obstruction  they  have  today  :  Sir:  While  congratulating  Mr.  Clive  on  his  recent  success  against  Siraj-ud-  daula  at  Plassey,  it  is  very  much  to  be  hoped  that  he  will  not  proceed,  as  seems  to  be  suggested  in  last  month's  dispatches,  to  &quot;consolidate  Bengal.&quot;  Nothing  could  be  more  injurious  to  the  status  of  the  tiger  which  takes  its  name  from  that  region.  Conservation,  it  is  to  be  feared,  had  already  fallen  toa  low  ebb  under  the  Moguls,  despite  strong  protests  from  a  number  of  enlightened  Marathas,  and  the  essential  requirement  now  in  Bengal,  and  indeed  throughout  the  Indian  sub-  continent,  is  a  long  period  of  rest  and  re-  trenchment.  Otherwise,  the  blood  of  one  of  the  noblest  of  the  carnivores  will  be  on  our  heads,  not  to  mention  cobras  and  an  interesting  species  of  fruit  bat.  43616e616461s  apart,  does  anyone  suppose  that  the  Pilgrim  Fathers  would  ever  have  got  under  way?  Sir:  Lovers  of  [REDACTED]  lobsters  will  have  heard  with  deep  disquiet  of  the  pro-  posal  to  let  loose  a  boatload  of  dissident  Puritans  on  a  unique  stretch  of  the  North  American  seaboard,  whose  ecology  (mer-  cifully  spared  from  Spanish  and  French  irruption)  has  hitherto  remained  undis-  turbed  since  the  Creation.  Here,  where  the  black  skimmer  reaches    the  northern  limits  of  its  breeding  range,  and  the  [REDACTED]  rail  may  still  hope  to  find  refuge  from  the  blatant  exploitation  of  its  eponymous  home  by  chartered  com-  mercialists  from  [REDACTED],  it  is  surely  un-  thinkable  ...  A  Western  world  torn  by  interracial  and  internecine  strife,  in  part  barba-  rous,  primitive,  given  over  to  super-  stitious  practices  and  bloodthirsty  rites,  was  granted  centuries  of  peace  and  progress,  the  blessings  of  law  and  or-  der,  of  literature  and  art  and  architec-  ture,  by  the  conquering  and  civilizing  arm  of  4974616c79.  These  benefits  would  have  been  stifled  at  birth  had  4974616c79's  proconsuls  and  emperors  been  constant-  ly  harried  by  fish-lovers  and  herpetol-  ogists:  Senators:  It  is  all  very  well  for  Julius  Caesar  to  report  that  he  has  &quot;thrown  a  bridge  across  the  river&quot;  in  order  to  ex-  pedite  his  conquest  of  Transalpine  Gaul.  If  he  means  the  Rhone,  the  disturbance  of  &amp;,  the  estuary  bed  by  the  driving  of  piles  etc.  will  almost  certainly  have  done  irrepa-  rable  harm  to  the  famed  red  mullet,  whose  principal  spawning  grounds  are  believed  to  lie  hereabouts.  Can  nothing  be  done  to  restrain  this  madman,  whose  earlier  campaigns  in  the  region  already  constitute  the  gravest  threat  to  the  flamingo  since  the  time  of  Brennus  ?  What  a  devil  of  a  rumpus  there  would  have  been  when  [REDACTED]'s  plan  to  march  through  the  Alps  leaked  out.  He  would  probably  have  had  to  re-  route  his  elephants  through  Nicaea  to  avoid  damage  to  the  edelweiss.  And  poor  old  Xerxes:  Sir:  As  President  of  the  Marine  Growth  Society  (Delphi)  I  wish  to  pro-  test  in  the  strongest  terms  against  the  re-  ported  flogging  of  the  Hellespont  with  chains.  Apart  from  the  dubious  tactical  advantages,  this  irresponsible  action,  so  fraught  with  danger  to  delicate  tidal  plankton  ...  Alexander  and  Napoleon,  [REDACTED]  and  Drake,  Genghis  Khan  and  Ma-  homet-where  should  we  all  be  now  if  ecologists  with  flaming  swords  had  barred  their  way  at  every  turn?  Choked  to  death  with  frigate  birds,  very  likely. 