 b"(AFTER  READ  ING  DosTOEVSKI  A  ND  THE  NEW  &quot;WEIGHT  WATCHERS  MAG-  AZINE  ON  THE  S  AME  PLANE  T  RIP)  AM  fat.  I  am  dis  gu  stingly  fat.  I  am  the  fattest  human  I  know.  I  have  nothing  but  excess  p  oundage  all  over  my  body.  My  fingers  are  fat.  My  wrists  are  fat.  My  eyes  are  fat.  (Can  you  imagine  fat  eyes?  )  I  am  hundreds  of  pounds  overweight.  Flesh  drips  from  me  like  hot  fudge  off  a  sun-  dae.  My  girth  has  been  an  object  of  disbelief  to  ev  eryon  e  who's  seen  me.  There  is  no  question  about  it,  I'm  a  regular  fatty.  Now  ,  the  reader  may  a  sk,  are  there  advantages  or  disadvantages  to  being  built  like  a  planet?  I  do  not  mean  to  be  facetious  or  spe  ak  in  para-  doxes,  but  I  must  answer  that  fat  in  it-  self  i  s  above  bourgeois  morality.  It  i  s  simply  fat.  That  f  at  could  have  a  v  alue  of  its  own  ,  that  fat  could  be,  say,  evil  or  pitying,  is,  of  course,  a  joke.  A  bsurd!  For  wh  at  is  fat  aft  er  all  but  an  accu-  mulation  of  pounds?  And  what  are  pounds?  Simply  an  aggregate  composite  of  cells.  Can  a  cell  be  mor  al?  Is  a  cell  beyond  good  or  evil?  Who  knows-  they're  s  o  small.  N  o,  my  friend,  w  e  must  never  attempt  to  distinguish  be-  tween  good  fat  and  bad  fat.  We  must  train  ou  rselves  t  o  confront  the  obese  without  judg-  ing,  without  think-  ing  this  man's  fat  is  first-rate  fat  and  this  poor  wretch's  is  grubby  fat.  Take  the  case  of  K.  This  fellow  was  por-  cine  to  such  a  degree  that  he  could  not  fit  through  the  average  doorframe  wit  hout  the  aid  of  a  c  rowbar.  In-  deed,  K.  would  not  think  to  pass  from  room  to  room  in  a  con-  ventional  dwelling  without  first  stripping  completely  and  then  buttering  himself.  I  am  no  stranger  to  the  insults  K.  must  have  borne  from  passing  gangs  of  young  row-  dies.  How  frequently  he  must  have  been  stung  by  cries  of  &quot;Tubby!&quot;  and  &quot;Blimp!&quot;  How  it  must  have  hurt  when  the  governor  of  the  province  turned  to  him  on  the  Eve  of  Michaelmas  and  said,  before  many  dignitaries,  &quot;You  hulking  pot  of  kasha!&quot;  Then  one  day,  when  K.  could  stand  it  no  longer,  he  dieted.  Yes,  dieted!  First  sweets  went.  Then  bread,  alco-  hol,  starches,  sauces.  In  short,  K.  gave  up  the  very  stuff  that  makes  a  man  un-  able  to  tie  his  shoelaces  without  help  from  the  Santini  Brothers.  Gradually  he  began  to  slim  down.  Rolls  of  flesh  fell  from  his  arms  and  legs.  Where  once  he  looked  roly-poly,  he  sudden-  ly  appeared  in  public  with  a  normal  build.  Yes,  even  an  attractive  build.  He  seemed  the  happiest  of  men.  I  say  &quot;seemed,&quot;  for  eighteen  years  later,  when  he  was  near  death  and  fever  raged  throughout  his  slender  frame,  he  was  heard  to  cry  out,  &quot;My  fat!  Bring  me  my  fat!  Oh,  please!  I  must  have  my  fat!  Oh,  somebody  lay  some  avoirdupois  on  me!  What  a  fool  I've  been.  To  part  with  one's  fat!  I  must  havebeen  in  league  with  the  Devil!&quot;  I  think  that  the  point  of  the  story  is  obvious.  Now  the  reader  is  probably  thinking,  Why,  then,  if  you  are  Lard  City,  have  you  not  joined  a  circus!  Be-  cause-and  I  confess  this  with  no  small  embarrassment-I  cannot  leave  the  house.  I  cannot  go  out  because  I  can-  not  get  my  pants  on.  My  legs  are  too  thick  to  dress.  They  are  the  living  re-  sult  of  more  corned  beef  than  there  is  on  Second,  Avenue-I  would  say  about  twelve  thousand  sandwiches  per  leg.  And  not  all  lean,  even  though  I  specified.  One  thing  is  certain:  If  my  fat  could  speak,  it  would  probably  speak  of  man's  intense  loneliness-with,  oh,  perhaps  a  few  additional  pointers  on  how  to  make  a  sailboat  out  of  paper.  Every  pound  on  .my  body  wants  to  be  heard  from,  as  do  Chins  Four  through  Twelve  inclusive.  My  fat  is  strange  fat.  It  has  seen  much.  My  calves  alone  have  lived  a  lifetime.  Mine  is  not  hap-  py  fat,  but  it  is  real  fat.  It  is  not  fake  fat.  Fake  fat  is  the  worst  fat  you  can  have,  although  I  don't  know  if  the  stores  still  carry  it.  But  let  me  tell  you  how  it  was  that  I  became  fat.  For  I  was  not  alwatrs  fat.  It  is  the  Church  that  has  made  me  thus.  At  one  time  I  was  thin-quite  thin.  So  thin,  in  fact,  that  to  call  me  fat  would  have  been  an  crror  in  per-  ception.  I  remained  thin  until  one  day-I  think  it  was  my  twentieth  birth  day-  when  I  was  having  tea  and  cracknels  with  my  uncle  at  a  fine  restau-  rant.  Suddenly  my  uncle  put  a  question  to  me.  &quot;Do  you  believe  in  God?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;And  if  so,  what  do  you  think  He  weighs?&quot;  So  saving,  he  took  a  long  and  luxurious  draw  on  his  cigar  and,  in  that  confident,  as-  sured  manner  he  has  cultivated,  lapsed  into  a  coughing  fit  so  violent  I  thought  he  would  hemorrhage.  &quot;I  do  not  believe  in  God,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;For  if  there  is  a  God,  then  tell  me,  Uncle,  why  is  there  poverty  and  baldness?  Why  do  some  men  go  through  life  immune  to  a  thou-  sand  mortal  enemies  of  the  race,  while  others  get  a  migraine  that  lasts  for  weeks?  Why  are  our  days  numbered  and  not,  say,  lettered?  Answer  me,  Uncle.     " b"Or  have  I  shocked  you?&quot;  I  knew  I  was  safe  in  say-  ing  this,  because  nothing  ever  shocked  the  man.  In-  deed,  he  had  seen  his  chess  tutor's  mother  raped  by  Turks  and  would.  have  found  the  whole  incident  amusing  had  it  not  taken  so  much  time.  &quot;Good  nephew,\xe2\x80\x9d  he  Said,  &quot;there  is  a  God,  despite  what  you  think,  and  He  is  everywhere.  Yes!  Every-  where!&quot;  &quot;Everywhere,  Uncle?  How  can  you  say  that  when  you  don't  even  know  for  sure  if  we  exist?  True,  I  am  touching  your  wart  at  this  moment,  but  could  that  not  be  an  illusion?  Could  not  all  life  be  an  illusion?  Indeed,  are  there  not  certain  sects  of  holy  men  in  43616e616461who  are  convinced  that  nothing  exists  outside  their  minds  except  for  the  Oyster  Bar  at.  Grand  Central  Station?  Could  it  not  be  simply  that  we  are  alone  and  aimless,  doomed  to  wander  in  an  indifferent  universe,  with  no  hope  of  salvation,  nor  any  prospect  except  misery,  death,  and  the  empty  reality  of  eternal  nothing?&quot;  I  could  see  that  I  made  a  deep  im-  pression  on  my  uncle  with  this,  for  he  said  to  me,  &quot;You  wonder  why  you're  not  invited  to  more  parties!  Jesus,  you're  morbid!&quot;  He  accused  me  of  being  nihilistic  and  then  said,  in  that  cryptic  way  the  senile  have,  &quot;God  is  not  always  where  one  seeks  Him,  but  I  assure  you,  dear  nephew,  He  is  every-  where.  In  these  cracknels,  for  in-  stance.&quot;  With  that,  he  departed,  leav-  ing  me  his  blessing  and  a  check  that  read  like  thetab  for  an  aircraft  car-  rier.  I  returned  home  wondering  what  it  was  he  meant  by  that  one  simple  state-  ment  &quot;He  is  everywhere.  In  these  cracknels,  for  instance.&quot;  Drowsy  by  then,  and  out  of  sorts,  I  lay  down  on  my  bed  and  took  a  brief  nap.  In  that  time,  I  had  a  dream  that  was  to  change  my  life  forever.  In  the  dream,  I  am  strolling  in  the  country  when  I  suddenly  notice  I  am  hungry.  Starved,  if  you  will.  I  come  upon  a  restaurant  and  I  enter.  [  order  the  open-hot-roast-beef  sandwich  and  a  side  of  French.  The  waitress,  who  re-  sembles  my  landlady  (a  thoroughly  insipid  woman  who  reminds  one  in-  stantly  of  some  of  the  hairier  lichens), tries  to  tempt  me  into  ordering  the  chicken  salad,  which  doesn't  look  fresh.  As  I  am  conversing  with  this  woman,  she  turns  into  a  twenty-four-piece  starter  set  of  silverware.  I  become  hysterical  with  laughter,  which  sud-  denly  turns  to  tears  and  then  into  a  serious  ear  infection.  The  room  is  suf-  fused  with  a  radiant  glow,  and  I  see  a  shimmering  figure  approach  on  a  white  steed.  It  is  my  podiatrist,  and  I  fall  to  the  ground  with  guilt.  Such  was  my  dream.  I  awoke  with  a  tremendous  sense  of  well-being.  Sud-  denly  I  was  optimistic.  Everything  was  clear.  My  uncle's  statement  rever-  berated  to  the  core  of  my  very  exist-  ence.  I  went  to  the  kitchen  and  started  to  eat.  I  ate  everything  in  sight.  Cakes,  breads,  cereals,  meat,  fruits.  Succulent  chocolates,  vegetables  in  sauce,  wines,  fish,  creams  and  noodles,  \xc3\xa9clairs,  and  wursts  totalling  in  excess  of  sixty  thou-  sand  dollars.  If  God  is  everywhere,  I  had  concluded,  then  He  is  in  food.  Therefore,  the  more  I  ate  the  godlier  I  would  become.  Impelled  by  this  new  religious  fervor,  I  glutted  myself  like  a  fanatic.  In  six  months,  I  was  the  holiest  of  holies,  with  a  heart  entirely  devoted  to  my  prayers  and  a  stomach  that  crossed  the  state  line  by  itself.  I  last  saw  my  feet  one  Thursday  morning  in  Vitebsk,  although  for  all  I  know  they  are  still  down  there.  I  ate  and  ate  and  grew  and  grew.  To  reduce  would  have  been  the  greatest  folly.  Even  a  sin!  For  when  we  lose  twenty  pounds,  dear  reader  (and  I  am  assuming  you  are  not  as  large  as  I),  wemay  be  losingthe  twenty  best  pounds  we  have!  We  may  be  losing  the  pounds  that  contain  our  genius,  our  humanity,our  love  and  honesty,  or,  in  the  case  of  one  inspector  general  I  knew,  just  some  unsightly  flab  around  the  hips.  Now,  I  know  what  you  are  saying.  You  are  saying  this  is  in  direct  con-  tradiction  to  everything-ves,  every-  thing-1I  put  forth  before.  Suddenly  I  am  attributing  to  neuter  flesh,  values!  Yes,  and  what  of  it?  Because  isn't  life  that  very  same  kind  of  contradiction?  One's  opinion  of  fat  can  change  in  the  same  manner  that  the  seasons  change,  that  our  hair  changes,  that  life  itself  changes.  For  life  is  change  and  fat  is  life,  and  fat  is  also  death.  Don't  you  see?  Fat  is  everything!  Unless,  of  course,  you're  overweight. "