 b"FAR  out  on  Long  Island,  beside  Fthe  Atlantic  [REDACTED],  there  is  afa-  mous  golf  course  that  stretches  for  miles  alongside  the  dunes,  edging  up  to  them  and  at  some  points  eddying  into  them.  The  golf  coursehas  its  own  turreted  clubhouse,  which  stands  up  high,  a  flimsy  play-fortress,  between  the  ocean  and  the  sky.  Some  distance  to  the  east,  also  high  on  the  dunes,  the  clubhouse  has  its  nearest  big  neighbor,  a  giant's  mansion  that  sits  contentedly  on  its  roomy  eminence,  facing  the  waves.  The  mansion  has  a  soft,  com-  fortable  outline,  like  a  gingerbread  cot-  tage.  Its  deep,  shingled  roof  is  pulled  down  low  over  the  tops  of  its  walls,  and  it  has  hundreds  of  diamond-paned  windows  that  keep  their  own  dark  se-  cretive  shimmer  even  when  all  the  lights  go  on  inside  and  the  house  comes  to  life  from  end  to  end  and  from  attic  to  cellar,  when  the  seven  children  who  live  there  are  all  at  home.  The  children  are  not  secretive,  but  they  are  secret-  seven  open  secrets  that  can  never  be  unravelled  or  deciphered  or  described,  any  more  than  you  could  unravel  or  decipher  or  describe  a  wave  in  its  pas-  sage  from  the  distant  horizon  to  the  familiar  sandy  beach,  or  find  it,  once  the  sand  had  caught  it.  The  children  are  restless  and  inquisitive  and  remorse-     less  in  their  pursuit  of  questions  and  answers,  and  they  never  stop  talking,  but  they  change  by  the  minute.  You  can  see  time  racing  away  in  their  friendly,  impatient  eves.  Wheat?  Wheret  How?  When?:  Who?  They  ask  questions.  And  Why?  Why?  Why?  They  ask  more  questions.  You  might  as  easily  stick  pins  into  the  wind  as  try  to  keep  up  with  them,  but  to  re-  main  silent,  and  try  to  watch  them,  is  just  as  difficult.  One  Saturday  afternoon  in  January,  several  Januarys  ago,  the  snow  began  falling,  and  it  continued  through  the  night,  falling  thickly  until  about  mid-  night,  when  there  was  a  brief  clear  interlude,  with  moonlight.  The  moon  remained  hidden,  buther  light  flowed  calmly  in  all  directions,  revealing  an  untenanted  fairyland  beside  a  flickering,  wandering  ocean.  The  thin  line  of  wind-bent  trees  that  separates  the  lawn  of  the  giant's  mansion  from  the  golf  course  cast  spidery  shadows  in  the  moonlight,  and,  nearer  the  dunes,  the  fragment  of  hedge  where  pink  and  whitebeach  roses  bloom  in  summer  was  a  little  bundle  of  darkness  in  the  quiet  expanse  of  snow.  Only  one  light  showed  in  the  turreted  clubhouse-it  was  their  night-light-and  the  giant's  mansion  was  dark.  The  children  were all  asleep,  and  there  was  no  one  to  notice  when  the  moon  withdrew  her  light  and  the  snow  began  falling  again,  not  to  stop  this  time  until  after  dawn.  NOUT  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning,  the  entrance  door  of  the  giant's  mansion  opened  and  the  seven  children  hurried  carefully  down  their  broad,  snow-laden  stone  steps,  between  their  two  tame  stone  lions,  and  began  racing  about  the  pure  and  glowing  surface  ofthe  lawn,  which  seemed  even  larger  white.  It  was  a  big  world,  in  the  snow.  The  children  tried  to  fill  it,  calling  to  one  another,  but  their  voices  sounded  thin  and  small,  the  way  the  trees  looked,  even  with  a  round  line  of  snow  along  each  branch  and  twig.  The  snowy  universe  looked.  eternal,  as  though  it  might  remain  as  it  was  for-  ever,  sea,  sky,  and  snow,  but  the  whirling  children  appeared  and  van-  ished  and  reappeared  and  vanished  again,  in  a  dazzling  jigsaw  of  hands  and  feet  and  faces  and  arms  and  eyes  and  legs  and  bodies,  running  and  fall-  ing  and  rolling  and  tumbling,  catching  at  the  air  and  at  the  snow,  every  move-  ment  separate  and  sudden  and  discon-  nected,  and  yet  every  movement  part  of  one  continuous  movement,  as  though  they  had  been  playing  that  game  for  centuries.  It  was  a  Chinese  battle,  white  on  white,  with  porcelain  dunes  in  the  background.  The  children  were  snow  children,  except  for  their  red  faces  and  dark  hair,  and  their  cries  were  less  fierce  than  the  seagulls'.  They  tore  about,  breaking  their  lawn  into  large  slabs  and  then  ruffling  the  slabs  into  a  plowed  field  of  white.  The  snow  yielded  softly,  here,  there,  and  everywhere,  and  the  battle  ended  at  the  finish  line,  where  the  driveway  was  that  separated  thebig  lawn  from  a  much  smaller  lawn,  the  modest  territory  of  a  fat,  solitary  cottage  that  has  its  own  deep,  shingled  roof  and  its  own  five  or  six  diamond-  paned  windows.  The  cottage  faced  north,  keeping  its  left  shoulder  to  the  ocean,  and  the  lawn  in  front  of  it  was  per-  fectly  white  and  untouched,  except  for  a  narrow  trench  that  ran  diagonally  from  the  front  door  to  the  pine  trees  that  stood  halfway  down  the  lawn,  where  the  bird  feeder  was.  And  straight  across  the  middle  of  the  lawn,  running  to  their  food,  the  pheasants  had  left  their  prints-a  frieze  " b"of  claws.  And  around  the  base  of  the  bird  feed-  er,  under  the  biggest  pine,  thousands  of  other  tiny  footmarks  had  beat-  en  the  snow  into  a  great,  shallow  earthenware  bowl  of  brown,  black,  and  white,  streaked  with  seed.  The  little  black  cat  who  liked  to  sit  under  the  bird  feeder,  staring  up,  waiting  for  a  chance  at  murder,  and  who  of-  ten  fled  from  the  feeder  with  seeds,  like  retribu-  tion,  glittering  wickedly  from  the  inside  corners  of  her  eyes,  was  not  in  her  place  this  morning.  She  was  asleep  some-  where  inside  the  cottage,  and  so  were  the  other  cats  who  lived  there  asleep,  and  the  house  itself  seemed  to  sleep  soundly,  as  though  the  snow  had  claimed  and  sealed  it,  just  for  the  day.  The  children  crossed  the  driveway  and  paused  to  survey  the  small  lawn  and  to  consult  together.  At  least,  they  put  their  heads  together,  although  the  eldest  boy  did  all  the  talking,  and  when  the  talking  was  over  he  took  the  first  step.  He  was  wearing  huge-footed  boots  of  dull  black  rubber,  and  he  planted  his  right  foot  deeply  into  the  fresh  snow  of  the  small  lawn  and  then  planted  his  left  foot  firmly  in  front  of  his  right,  and  proceeded  to  walk  like  that,  wobbling  a  little,  until  he  was  a  good  distance  across  the  lawn.  Then  he  turned  smartly  to  face  the  cottage,  and  stood  at  attention  with  his  arms  at  his  sides,  and  fell  back-  ward  his  full  length  and  lay  there  stiffly,  grinning  and  calling  to  the  eld-  est  girl,  who  was  next  in  line,  to  follow  him.  She  was  already  making  her  way,  even  more  unsteadily  than  he,  along  his  track,  and  when  she  was  a  couple  of  feet  from  him  she  stopped  and  turned  and  dropped  back  as  he  had  done.  As  she  fell,  without  his  athletic  confidence,  she  tumbled,  but  the  snow  bed  she  made  for  herself  was  just  as  neat  as  his,  and  she  lay  stiff-  ly,  as  he  did.  The  second  boy  followed  and  dropped  back  into  his  place,  in  his  turn,  and  very  soon  all  seven  children  were  lying  in  a  row,  giggling  with  excitement  and  constraint,  and  raising  their  heads  awkwardly  tosee  if  any-  body  was  watching  them  from  the  cot-  tage.  The  front  door  of  the  cottage  opened  and  a  black  Labrador  retriever  charged  out,  looking  joyful,  because  her  mouth  was  open.  She  was  [REDACTED],   and  she  was  growing  old,  but  she  wore  her  grey  hairs  very  lightly,  and  nothing  could  dim  her  determination  to  be  wherever  the  people  were.  She  stood  beside  the  eldest  boy  and  stared  expect-  antly  along  the  line  of  bodies,  wag-  gingher  tail  and  waiting  for  them  all  to  get  up.  When  they  didn't  get  up,  she  began  washing  the  eldest  boy's  face  with  her  large  pink  tongue.  The  eldest  boy  squealed  and  moaned  and  wriggled  but  did  not  break  the  mold  he  lay  in,  and  [REDACTED]  moved  from  him  to  the  eldest  girl,  who  shrieked  while  she  was  being  washed  but  did  not  wriggle.  The  second  boy  was  rolling  his  eyes,  and  when  he  saw  [REDACTED]'s  big  face  coming  close  to  him  he  yelled  and  jumped  up  and  ran  out  into  the  drive-  way,  and  the  others  all  followed  him.  But  not  one  mold  was  broken.  The  seven  molds  remained  clear  and  clean  in  the  snow,  and  the  children  stood  in  the  driveway  and  screamed  with  laughter  and  looked  at  the  lawn  they  had  conquered  without  doing  it  any  mischief.  Then  they  turned  and  raced  away  up  their  own  rumpled  lawn.  Since  there  were  seven  children,  [REDACTED]  transformed  herself  into  seven  dogs  and  ran  among  them  like  a  lunatic,  upsetting  them  all.  When  she  had  made  them  dodge  as  much  as  she  pleased,  she  raced  for  the  big  house  and  flew  up  the  front  steps  and  was  at  the  door  before  any  of  them.  The  smallest  girl,  who  had  begun  the  rush  up  the  lawn,  was  soon  left  behind,  and  so  she  stopped  running  and  dawdled  care-  lessly  along  to  show  that  she  was  last  on  purpose  and  that  she  was  in  no  hurry  to  get  home.  But  she  too  reached  the  house  in  her  own  good  time,  and climbed  the  steps  and  walked  inside,  and  the  heavy  front  door  closed  behind  her.  The  game  was  all  over.  HE  following  morning  a  thaw  had  set  in,  and  the  out-  lines  left  by  the  chil-  dren'sbodies  had  be-  gun  to  blur.  The  chil-  dren  drove  off  in  their  car  to  their  house  in  the  city,  not  to  return  till  spring,  they  said.  But  even  before  they  were  out  of  sight,  smil-  ing  and  waving,  as  ex-  cited  to  be  leaving  as  they  had  been  to  ar-  rive,  the  place  had  tak-  en  onan  aloof,  de-  serted  look.  The  snow  was  in  disgraceful  wet  rags.  'The  trees  looked  sad  and  lonely,  and  the  seagulls  circled  and  swooped  and  screamed  with  exasperation  at  the  sameness  of  it  all.  &quot;Every  year,&quot;  the  seagulls  screamed,  &quot;every  year.&quot;  By  afternoon  the  country  had  turned  to  marshland.  Wet,  driving  snow  fell  haphazard,  slapped  to  and  fro  by  a  confused,  angry  wind.  The  narrow  driveway  ran  with  water  like  a  river,  and  there  was  only  the  long  bleak  line  of  the  horizon,  straight  and  sharp  as  a  ruler,  to  show  the  separate  slate-blue  darknesses  of  sea  and  sky.  The  chil-  dren's  outlines  sank  slowly  away  into  the  soaking  grass,  showing  almost  to  the  last  that  there  had  been  seven  places  of  different  lengths.  Except  in  a  few  stubbornly  frozen  corners,  the  was  gone.  The  children  had  made  their  mark,  only  just  in  time,  but  forever.  They  never  came  back,  not  really,  not  as  they  were,  but  their  marks  remain.  In  the  buried  city  of  apast  winter  the  marks  endure,  clear  as  day  in  that  year's  snow-seven  bodies,  raging  with  life,  seven  faces,  seven  ages,  seven  weights,  and  seven  measurements.  The  children  are  there,  trying  not  to  laugh.  You  can  see  them  again,  if  you  have  the  patience  to  watch.  You  have  to  wait  until  the  snow  falls,  and  then  itis  simply  a  matter  of  waiting  for  the  snow  to  settle."