 b"ANYONE  who  has  been  anxiously  scanning  his  mail  in  recent  months  in  the  expectation  that  the  manufacturer  of  his  new  car  is  call-  ing  it  back  for  additional  work  may  have  missed  an  equally  urgent  letter  from  the  maker  of  some  other  product  that  needs  adjusting.  As  a  consumer  service,  a  few  ofthe  more  important  of  the  recent  rash  of  recall  bulletins  are  synopsized  below:  Books:  Fenton,  Bayle  &amp;  Overstogg,  publishers  of  &quot;Cooking  for  the  Boss,&quot;  by  Agnes  Pfeiffer  Buenaventura,  have  asked  that  the  initial  printing  of  twelve  thousand  copies  be  returned  to  book-  sellers  for  minor  adjustments  to  the  recipe  on  page  176,  called  Cassoulet  a  la  Grecque  with  Raisin  Sauce.  As  this  recipe  now  stands,  intakeof  the  dish  may,  under  certain  conditions,  trigger  a  mild  digestive  seizure.  The  publishers  have  assured  alarmed  readers  thatthese  conditions-which  include  consumption  of  at  least  two  helpings  of  the  dish-are  highly  unlikely  to  occur  and  that,  to  date,  only  two  really  dra-  matic  career  changes  can  be  laid  to  &quot;Cookng  for  the  Boss.&quot;  The  adjust-  ment  to  the  recipe,  a  simple  tip-in  pro-  cedure,  can  be  made  by  the  bookseller  in  five  minutes.  Hacklin  Press,  publishers  of  the  novel  &quot;Remembering  Madge  Motley,&quot;  by  Helen  Crews  Drinkwater,  have  request-  ed  that  all  two  hundred  and  seventy-  three  copies  ordered  by  booksell-  ers,  including  any  they  may  have  sold,  be  returned  directly  to  the  publishers  for  rearrange-  ment  of  thepages.  A  rare  error  at  the  bindery  put  pages  29  through  60  after  page848,  so  that  the  reader  does  not  learn  of  David  Thatcher's  sterility  until  the  day  after  his  wife  Bethamy's  illegal  operation,  following  her  drug-prompted  liaison  with  Or-  monde  Caine-whose  own  bi-  zarre  motivations  for  pursuing  the  unlikely  affair  are  suggest-  ed  in  these  same  pages.  Al-  though  the  error  prompted  ma-  jor  praise  for  the  work-the  Sandy  Hook  Advocate  called  it  &quot;a  brilliantly  elliptical  novel,  redolent  with  echoes&quot;-Mrs.  Drinkwater  believes  the  mis-  placed  pages  may  do  serious  damage  to  some  readers.  Home  FrEEzERs:  Approxi-  mately  twenty  per  cent  of  Frostfinger  Farms'  20-cubic-  foot  Polemaster  '67  freezers  are  being  recalled  for  asimple  adjustment  to  the  cold  controls.  When  the  dial  is  set  at  &quot;Coldest&quot;  in  most  of  these  de-  fective  units,  the  motor  will  turn  itself  to  &quot;Off.&quot;  A  simple  test  for  the  lay-  man  calls  for  keeping  a  couple  of  spears  of  asparagus  in  a  handy  corner  of  the  unit.  When  in  doubt  about  the  temper-  ature,  remove  a  spear  and  hold  it  hori-  zontally,  as  if  reading  a  fever  thermom-  eter.  If  spear  points  to  your  shoes,  unit  is  one  of  those  that  is  &quot;Off.&quot;  Another  home  test  has  been  designed  to  flush  out  the  even  smaller  number  of  Pole-  masters  that  run  at  &quot;Coldest&quot;  continu-  ally.  Simply  remove  a  packet  of  frozen  vegetables  from  your  freezer  and  drop  in  boiling  water.  If  the  plastic  con-  tainer  melts  before  the  vegetable  block,  you  have  one  of  the  &quot;continual-run&quot;  units.  Houses:  Grock  Realty,  buildersof  Walden  Pond,  Ltd.,  a  2,240-home  split-level  development  near  the  city  line,  has  announced  the  recall  of  all  one  hundred  and  twelve  homes  in  the  Georgian  Ranch  model.  Until  the  man  from  Grock  calls  to  make  the  necessary  adjustment,  homeowners  are  advised  not  to  open  the  fireplace  damper,  the  kitchendoor,  and  the  laundry  chute  at  the  same  time.  Although  the  Grock  people  estimate  that  this  combination  of  openings  is  likely  to  come  up  only  once  in  seven  million  times,  it  has  already  happened  twice  at  the  six-month-old  Walden  Pond,  Ltd.,  colony.  The  adjustment  to  the  houses-a  simple  shift  of  stresses  on  existing  uprights  and  the  installation  of  a  Lally  column  in  the  center  of  the  dining  room-can  be  ac-  complished  in  less  than  a  week.  Should  a  Georgian  Ranch  owner  inadvertently  make  the  prohibited  series  of  openings  before  the  Grock  people  correct  his  unit,  he  would  be  well  advised  to  clear  the  back  yard  promptly,  as  the  rear  wall  will  fall  out  in  thirty  seconds.  Mates:  Punch-A-Date,  one  of  the  largest  firms  in  the  burgeoning  com-  puterized-dating  industry,  has  discov-  ered  a  technical  error  in  the  functioning  of  its  applicant-matching  facility,  which  was  designed  by  a  panel  of  prominent  psychiatrists,  sociologists,  and  marriage  brokers.  Some  months  ago,  it  has  just  been  learned,  a  porter  sweeping  around  the  punch-card  machine  inadvertently  changed  half  a  dozen  settings  with  the  handle  of  his  broom.  Thus,  for  exam-  ple,  &quot;Over  5  feet  4  inches&quot;  registered  on  nine  thousand  applications  as  &quot;Pos-  sesses  one  or  more  advanced  degrees,&quot;  and  almost  as  many  &quot;Loves  to  dance&quot;  subscribers  were  posted  as  &quot;Practicing  Calvinist.&quot;  Punch-A-Date  estimates  that  fifty-four  unsuitable  marriages  re-  sulted  from  the  error,  for  which  it  as-  sumes  full  responsibility,  and  it  offers  to  send  Norman  Bismeyer,  head  of  its  Computer  Department,  anywhere  within  a  hundred-mile  radius  to  testify  in  annulment  proceedings.  The  post-  marital  adjustment  is  saidto  beasimple  one  that  ought  to  take  no  more  than  two  years.  "