 b"PAINT  me  a  small  railroad  station then,  ten  minutes  before  dark.  Be-  yond  the  platform  are  the  waters  of  the  Wekonsett  River,  reflecting  a  sombre  afterglow,  The  architecture  of  the  station  is  oddly  informal,  gloomy  but  unserious,  and  mostly  resembles  a  pergola,  cottage,  or  summerhouse,  al-  though  this  is  a  climate  of  harsh  win-  ters.  The  lamps  along  the  platform  burn  with  a  nearly  palpable  plaintive-  ness.  The  setting  seems  in  some  way  to  be  at  the  heart  of  the  matter.  We  travel  by  plane,  oftener  than  not,  and  yet  the  spirit  of  our  country  seems  to  have  remained  that  of  a  country  of  rail-  roads.  You  wake  in  a  Pullman  bedroom  at  3  A.M.  in  a  city  the  name  of  which  you  do  not  know  and  may  never  dis-  cover.  A  man  stands  on  the  platform  with  a  child  on  his  shoulders.  They  are  waving  goodbye  to  some  traveller,  but  what  is  the  child  doing  up  so  late,  and  why  is  the  man  crying?  On  a  siding  beyond  the  platform  there  is  a  lighted  dining  car  where  a  waiter  sits  alone  at  a  table  adding  up  his  accounts.  Beyond  this  is  a  water  tank,  and  beyond  this  a  well-lighted  and  empty  street.  Then  you  think  happily  that  this  is  your  coun-  try-unique,  mysterious,  and  vast.  One  has  no  such  feelings  in  airplanes,  air-  ports,  and  the  trains  of  other  nations.  A  train  arrives,  a  passenger  departs  and  is  met  by  a  real-estate  agent  named  Howard,  for  who  else  will  know  the  exact  age,  usefulness,  value,  and  well-  being  of  the  houses  in  the  town?  &quot;Welcome  to  Bullet  Park.  We  hope  you'll  like  it  well  enough  to  join  us  here.&quot;  Mr.  Howard  does  not  happen  to  live  in  Bullet  Park.His  name,  like  that  of  ev-  ery  other  licensed  real-estate  dealer,  is  nailed  to  the  trees  in  vacant  lots,  but  he  transacts  his  business  in  a  small  office  in  the  next  village.  The  stranger  has  left  his  wife  and  daughter  in  town,  in  the  Hotel  Plaza,  watching  colored  television.  The  search  for  shelter  seems  to  him  to  goon  at  a  nearly  primordial  level.  Prices  are  high  these  days,  and  nothing  is  exactly  what  one  wants.  The  scuffed  paint  and  discarded  portables  of  earlier  owners  seem  as  alive  and  demanding  as  the  clothing  and  papers  one  sorts  out  after  a  death  in  the  family.  When  it  is  all  over,  when  the  gardens  are  planted  and  the  furniture  is  settled,  the  rigors  of  the  journey  will  have  been  con-  cealed;  but  on  this  evening  the  blood  memory  of  travel  and  migrations  courses  through  his  veins.  The  people  of  Bullet  Park  intend  not  so  much  to  have  arrived  there  as  to  have  been  planted  and  grown  there,  but  this,  of  course,  was  untrue.  Disorder,  moving  vans,  bank  loans  at  high  interest,  tears,  and  desperation  had  characterized  most  of  their  arrivals  and  departures.  &quot;This  is  our  commercial  center,&quot;  says  Howard.  &quot;We  have  all  sorts  of  plans  for  its  improvement.  'There's  Powder  Hill.&quot;  He  nods  toward  a  light-  ed  hill  on  their  right.  &quot;That's  where  the  property  I  want  to  show  you  is  located.  The  asking  price  is  fifty-seven  thou-  sand.  Five  bedrooms,  three  baths  .  ..&quot;  The  lights  of  Powder  Hill  twin-  kled,  its  chimneys  smoked,  and  a  pink  plush  toilet-seat  cover  flew  from  a  clothesline.  Seen  at  an  improbable  dis-  tance  by  some  zealous  and  vengeful  adolescent,  ranging  over  the  golf  links,  the  piece  of  plush  would  seem  to  be  the  imprimatur,  the  guerdon,  accolade,  and  banner  of  Powder  Hill,  behind  which  marched,  in  tight  English  shoes,  the  legions  of  wife-swapping,  Jew-bait-  ing,  booze-fighting  spiritual  bankrupts.  Oh  damn  them  all,  thought  the  ado-  lescent.  Damn  the  bright  lights  by  which  no  one  reads,  damn  the  con-  tinuous  music  that  no  one  hears,  damn  the  grand  pianos  that  no  one  can  play,  damn  the  white  houses  mort-  gaged  up  to  their  rain  gutters,  damn  them  for  plundering  the  ocean  for  fish  to  feed  the  mink  whose  skins  they  wear,  and  damn  their  shelves  on  which  there  rests  a  single  book-a  copy  of  the  telephone  directory  bound  in  pink  brocade.  Damn  their  hypocrisy,  damn  their  cant,  damn  their  credit  cards,  damn  their  discounting  the  wilder-  ness  of  the  human  spirit,  damn  their  immaculateness,  damn  their  lechery,  and  damn  them  above  all  for  having  leeched  from  life  that  strength,  malodorous-  ness,  color,  and  zealthat  give  it  mean-  ing.  Howl,  howl,  howl.  But  the  adolescent  would  be  mis-  taken,  as  adolescents  always  are.  Take  the  Wickwires,  for  instance,  whose  white  house  (estimated  resale  price:  $65,000)  Howard  and  the  traveller  were  then  passing.  If  the  social  customs  of  Powder  Hill  were  to  be  attacked  by  the  adolescent,  the  Wickwires  would  make  a  splendid  target.  They  were  charming,  they  were  brilliant,  they  were  incandescent,  and  their  engage-  ment  calendar  was  booked  solid  from  Labor  Day  to  the  Fourth  of  July,  when  they  left  Powder  Hill  for  the  sea.  They  were  quite  literally  social  workers  celebrants-using  their  charm  and  their  brilliance  to  make  things  go  at  a  social  level.  They  were  people  who  under-  stood  that  cocktails  and  dinner,  in  their  time  and  place,  were  as  important  to  the  welfare  of  the  community  as  the  village  caucus,  the  school  board,  and  the  municipal  services.  For  a  community  that  had  so  few  altars-four,  to  be  ex-  act-and  none  of  them  sacrificial,  they  seemed,  as  serious  and  dedicated  cele-  brants,  to  have  improvised  a  sacrificial  altar  onwhich  they  had  literally  given  up  some  flesh  and  blood.  They  were  al-  ways  falling  down  stairs,  bumping  into  sharp-edged  furniture,  and  driving  their  cars  into  ditches.  When  they  ar-  rived  at  a  party,  they  would  be  impec-  cably  dressed,  but  her  right  arm  would  be  in  a  sling.  He  would  support  a  game  leg  with  a  gold-headed  cane  and  wear  dark  glasses.  She  had  sprained  her  arm  in  a  fall  at  a  party.  He  had  broken  his  leg  at  a  country-club  dance,  and  the  dark  glasses  concealed  a  mouse  that  had  the  thrilling  reds  and  purples  ofa  late-  winter  moon.  Their  brilliance  was  not  diminished  by  their  injuries.  In  fact,  they  almost  always  appeared  with  some  limb  in  a  sling,  some  extremity  band-  aged,  some  show  of  court  plaster.  Their  brilliance,  their  ardor  as  cele-  brants,  is  serious.  After  any  common  weekend  when  they  have  lunched  and  dined  out  for  three  days  running,  the  seriousness  of  their  role  can  best  be  esti-  mated  as  the  light  of  Monday  morning  shines  on  them  while  they  sleep.  When  the  alarm  rings  he  mistakes  it  for  the  telephone.  The  children  are  away  at  school  and  he  concludes  that  one  of  them  is  sick  or  in  trouble,  When  he  un-  derstands  that  itis  the  alarm  and  not  the  telephone,  he  puts  his  feet  onto  the  floor.  He  groans.  He  swears.  He  feels  himself  to  be  a  hollow  man  but  one  who  has  only  recently  been  eviscerated  and  who  can  recall  what  it  felt  like  to  have  a  skinful  of  lively  lights  and  vitals.  She  whimpers  in  pain  and  covers  her  face  with  a  pillow.  Feeling  himself  to  be  a  painful  cavity,  he  goes  down  the  hall  to  the  bathroom.  Looking  at  him-  self  in  the  mirror,  he  gives  a  loud  cry  of  terror  and  revulsion.  His  eyes  are  red,  his  face  is  scored  with  lines,  his  light  hair  seems  clumsily  dyed.  He  pos-  sesses  for  a  moment  the  curious  power  of  being  able  to  frighten  himself.  He  soaks  his  face  with  water  and  shaves  his  beard.  This  exhausts  his  energies  and  he  comes  back  down  the  hall  to  the  bedroom,  says  that  he  will  take  a  later  train,  returns  to  bed,  and  pulls  the  blankets  over  his  face  to  shut  out  the  morning.  She  whimpers  and  cries.  She  then  leaves  the  bed,  her  nightgown  hooked  up  over  her  comely  backside.  " b"She  goes  into  the  bathroom  but  she  shuts  her  eyes  as  she  passes  the  mirror.  Back  in  bed  she  covers  her  face  with  a  pillow  and  theyboth  lie  there,  groan-  ing  loudly.  He  then  joins  her  on  her  side  of  the  bed  and  they  engage  in  a  backbreaking  labor  of  love  that  occu-  pies  them  for  twenty  minutes  and  leaves  them  both  with  a  gruelling  headache.  He  has  already  missed  the  8:12,  the  8:22,  and  the  8:30.  &quot;Coffee,&quot;  he  mut-  ters,  and  gets  out  of  bed  once  more.  He  goes  down  the  stairs  to  the  kitchen.  Stepping  into  the  kitchen,  he  lets  out  another  cry  of  pain  when  he  sees  the  empties  on  the  shelf  by  the  sink.  They  are  ranged  there  like  the  gods  in  some  pantheon  of  remorse.  Their  intent  seems  to  be  to  force  him  to  his  knees  and  to  wringfrom  him  some  prayer.  &quot;Empties,  O  empties,  most  merciful  empties,  have  mercy  upon  me  for  the  sake  of  Jack  Daniel's  and  Sea-  gram  Distillers.&quot;  Their  immutable  emptiness  gives  them  a  look  that  is  cruel  and  censorious.  Their  labels-  Scotch,  gin,  and  bourbon-have  the  ferocity  of  Chinese  demons,  buthe  def-  initely  has  the  feeling  that  if  he  tried  to  placate  them  with  a  genuflection  they  would  be  merciless.  He  drops  them  into  a  wastebasket  but  this  does  not  dispose  of  their  force.  He  puts  some  water  on  to  boil  and,  feeling  for  the  wall  like  a  blind  man,  he  makes  his  way  back  to  the  bedroom,  where  he  can  hear  his  wife's  cries  of  pain.  &quot;Oh,  I  wish  I  were  dead,&quot;  she  cries.  &quot;I  wish  I  were  [REDACTED];  &quot;There,  there,  dear,&quot;  he  says  thickly,  &quot;there,  there.&quot;  He  sets  out  a  clean  suit,  a  shirt,  a  tie,  and  some  shoes,  and  then  gets  back  into  bed  again  and  pulls  the  blankets  over  his  face,  It  is  now  close  to  nine  and  the  garden  is  filled  with  light.  They  hear  the  school  bus  at  the  corner  sounding  its  horn  for  the  Marsden  boy.  The  week  has  begun  its  splendid  procession  of  days,  The  kettle  begins  to  whistle.  He  gets  out  of  bed  for  the  third  time,  returns  to  the  kitchen,  and  makes  some  coffee.  He  brings  a  cup  for  each  of  them.  She  gets  out  ofbed,  washes  her  face  without  examining  it,  and  re-  turns  to  bed.  He  puts  on  some  under-  wear  and  then  returns  to  bed  himself.  For  the  next  hour  they  are  up  and  down,  in  and  out,  struggling  to  rejoin  the  stream  of  things,  and  finally  he  dresses,  and,  racked  by  vertigo,  melan-  choly,  and  nausea,  he  boards  his  Geth-  semane-the  Monday-morning  10:48.  There  was  nothing  hypocritical  about  the  Wickwires'  Monday  morn-  ings,  and  so  much  for  the  adolescent.     HE  stranger  might  observe  that  the  place  seems  very  quiet;  they  seem  to  have  come  inland  from  the  sounds  of  wildness-gulls,  trains,  cries  of  pain  and  love,  creaking  things,  ham-  mering,  gunfire.  Not  even  a  child  prac-  tices  the  piano  in  this  precinct  of  disin-  fected  acoustics.  They  pass  the  Husons'  (7  bedrooms,  5  baths,  $65,000)  and  the  Welchers'  (3  bedrooms,  1%  baths,  $31,000  ).  The  wind  draws  through  the  beam  of  their  headlights  some  yellow  elm  leaves,  a  credit  card,  potato  chips,  bills,  checks,  and  ashes.  Are  there  songs  for  this  place,  the  stranger  might  won-  der;  and  there  are.  Songs  sung  to  chil-  dren  and  by  children,  songs  for  cook-  ing,  songs  for  undressing,  water  songs,  ecclesiastical  doggerel  (&quot;We  throw  our  crowns  at  Your  feet&quot;),  madrigals,  folk  songs,  and  a  little  native  music.  Mr.  Elmsford  (6  bedrooms,  3  baths,  $53,000)  dusts  off  his  tarnished  psalter  and  sings,  &quot;Hotchkiss,  Yale,  an  indif-  ferent  marriage,  three  children,  and  twenty-three  years  with  the  Universal  Tufa  Corporation.  Oh,  why  am  I  so  disappointed?&quot;  he  sings.  &quot;Why  does  everything  seem  to  have  passed  me  by?&quot;  There  is  a  rush  for  the  door  before  he  starts  his  second  verse,  but  he  goes  on  singing.  &quot;Why  does  everything  taste  of  ashes,  why  is  there  no  brilliance  or  prom-  ise  in  my  affairs?&quot;  The  waiters  empty  the  ashtrays,  the  bartender  locks  an  iron  screen  over  the  bottles,  and  they  finally  turn  off  the  lights,  but  he  goes  on  sing-  ing.  &quot;I  tried,  I  tried,  I  did  the  best  I  knew  how  to  do,  so  why  should  I  feel  so  sad  and  blue?&quot;  This  place  is  shut,  Mister,  they  tell  him,  and  you're  the  guy  who  shut  it.  Then  there  arethe  affirmative  singers:  &quot;Bullet  Park  is  growing,  growing,  Bullet  Park  is  here  to  stay,  Bullet  Park  shows  great  im-  provement  every  day  in  every  way....&quot;  Vital  statistics?  The  divorce  rate  was  way  down,  the  suicide  rate  was  a  secret,  the  winters  were  too  inclement  for  citrus  fruit  but  much  too  clement  forthe  native  white  birch.  Traffic  cas-  ualties  averaged  twenty-two  a  year  because  of  a  winding  highway  that  seemed  to  have  been  drawn  on  the  map  by  a  child  with  a  grease  pencil.  In  the  state  office  of  the  Department  of  Pub-  lic  Works  there  was,  locked  in  a  vault,  a  set  of  blueprints  for  a  six-lane  high-  way  that  could  cut  Bullet  Park  in  two.  Ten-  and  fourteen-wheel  trucks,  massive  and  warlike  as  the  land  castles  of  the  barbarians  and  trailing  from  their  exhaust  pipes  a  malodorous  night,  might  someday  labor  up  Powder  Hill  at  seven  miles  an  hour  and  race  down  the  slope  at  eighty,  slaughtering  an  es-  timable  number  of  men,  women,  chil-  dren,  and  dogs.  The  plans  were  secret  and  there  was  no  force  of  referendum  or  law  that  couldbring  them  into  the  open.  Mr.  Petrucci,  the  commissioner  who  had  the  power  to  dispossess,  im-  " b"poverish,  and  murder  the  people  of  Bullet  Park,  was  nearly  as  mysterious  as  his  plans.  Committees  of  elected  offi-  cials  cooled  their  heels  in  his  waiting  room  but  Mr.  Petrucci  was  never  in.  His  intimates  and  protectors  knew  him  to  bea  slight,  clerkly  man,  whose  suits  were  the  same  color  as  his  filing  cabi-  nets.  He  was  a  clinical  gambler.  Bribes  from  road-construction  companies  and  real-estate  speculators  poured  into  his  purse  but  he  went  to  Hialeah  every  winter  and  lost  it  all.  Howard  knew  all  of  this,  of  course,  but  he  would  not  mention  it  to  a  prospective  customer.  He  drew  his  car  up  in  front  of  that  sort  of  white  house  that  is  used  as  a  background  in  the  advertising  photo-  graphs  of  medium-priced  automobiles.  'This  is  the  property  I  had  in  mind  for  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  hope  she  won't  be  in.  She's  not  much  of  a  salesman.  She  said  she  was  going  out.&quot;  He  rang  the  bell,  and  Mrs.  Heathcup  opened  the  door.  It  appeared  that  she  was  preparing  to  go  out  but  had  not  quite  made  it.  She  was  a  stocky  woman  with  skewered  silver-gilt  hair,  wearing  a  bathrobe.  On  the  tip  of  one  of  her  silk  slippers  there  was  a  clothrose;  the  other  had  none.  \xc2\xabWell,  you're  welcome  to  look,&quot;  she  said  in  a  hoarse,  carrying  voice.  &quot;I  hope  you'll  like  it  well  enough  to  buy  it.  I'm  getting  a  little  tired  of  having  people  track  mud  through  the  place  and  then  decide  on  something  else.  It's  a  lovely  house  and  everything  works  you'll  have  to  take  my  word  for  that-  but  I've  known  people  around  here  to  sell  houses  with  dangerous  wiring,  backed-up  septic  tanks,  obsolete  plumb-  ing,  and  leaky  roofs.  There's  nothing  like  that  here.  Before  my  husband  passed  away  he  saw  that  everything  was  in  apple-pie  order,  and  the  only  reason  I'm  selling  is  that  there's  nothing  here  for  me,  now  that  he's  gone.  Fifty-seven  is  my  price.  That's  not  my  asking  price,  it's  my  final  price.  We  put  twenty  thousand  into  the  place  and  my  hus-  band  painted  it  every  single  year  before  he  passed  away.  He  was  a  well-to-do  man  but  painting  relaxed  him.  In  Jan-  uary  he'd  paint  the  kitchen.  Saturdays  and  Sundays  and  nights,  that  is.  Then  he'd  paint  the  hallway  and  the  living  room  and  the  dining  room  and  the  bed-  rooms,  and  then  next&quot;J  anuary  he'd  start  all  over  again  in  the  kitchen.  He  was  painting  the  dining  room  the  day  he  passed  away.  When  Isay  that  he  passed  away  I  don't  want  you  to  think  that  he  died  in  his  sleep.  One  Sunday  afternoon  while  he  was  painting  I  heard  him  talk-  ing  to  himself.  I  can't  stand  it  any  longer,  he  said.  I  still  don't  know  what  he  meant.  Then  he  went  out  into  the  garden  and  shot  himself.  That  was  when  I  found  out  what  sort  of  neigh-  bors  I  had.  You  can  look  all  over  the  world  but  youwon't  find  neighbors  as  kind  and  thoughtful  as  the  people  of  Bullet  Park.  As  soon  as  they  heard  about  my  husband  passing  away  they  came  right  over  here  to  comfort  me.  There  must  have  been  ten  or  twelve  of  them  and  we  all  had  a  lot  to  drink  and  they  were  so  comforting  that  I  almost  forgot  what  had  happened.  I  mean  it  didn't  seem  as  though  any-  thing  had  happened.  Well,  here's  the  living  room.  Eighteen  by  thirty-two.  We've  had  fifty  guests  for  cocktails  but  it  never  seems  crowded.  I'll  sell  you  the  rug  for  half  of  what  I  gave  for  it.  All  wool.  If  your  wife  wants  the  cur-  tains  I'm  sure  we  can  work  something  out.  Do  you  have  a  daughter?  This  hallway  would  be  a  beautiful  place  for  a  wedding.  Now,  the  dining  room  ..  .&quot;  The  dinner  table  was  set  for  twelve,  with  soup  plates,  wineglasses,  candle-  sticks,  and  wax  flowers.  &quot;I  always  keep  my  table  set,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Heathcup.  &quot;I  haven't  entertained  for  months  but  Mr.  Heathcup  hated  to  see  an  empty  table  and  so  I  always  keep  it  set,  sort  of  in  memory.  An  empty  table  depressed  him.  I  change  the  setting  once  or  twice  a  week.  There  are  four  churches  in  the  village,  I  suppose  you  know  about  the  Gorey  Brook  Country  Club.  It  has  a  good  eighteen-hole  course  designed  by  Pete  Ellison,  four  em-tout-cas  courts,  and  a  pool.  I  hope  you're  not  Jewish.  They're  very  strict  about  that.  I  don't  have  a  pool  myself  and,  frankly,  it's  something  of  a  limitation.  When  peo-  ple  start  talking  about  pool  chemicals  and  so  forth  you'll  find  yourself  left  out  of  the  conversation.  I've  had  an  esti-  mate  made  and  you  can  have  one  put  in  the  back  garden  for  eight  thousand.  Maintenance  comes  to  around  twenty-  five  a  week  and  they  charge  a  hundred  dollars  to  open  and  close  it.  The  neigh-  bors,  as  I've  said,  are  wonderful  people,  although  they  take  some  knowing.  You  might  think  Harry  Plutarch,  who  lives  across  the  street,  a  little  odd,  unless  you  knew  the  whole  story.  His  wife  ran  off  with  Jack  Spratt.  What  she  did  was  to  have  a  moving  van  come  to  the  house  one  morning  and  take  everything  out  of  the  place  excepting  a  chair,  a  single  bed,  and  a  parrot  cage.  When  he  came  home  from  work  he  found  an  empty  house  and  he's  been  living  with  a  chair,  a  bed,  and  a  parrot  cage  ever  since,  but  when  you  get  to  know  him  he's  charm-  ing.  The  Trowbridges  live  next  door  and  they're  very  nice  too,  although  he's  had  a  little  trouble.  Last  April  he  re-  fused  to  get  out  of  bed  and  he's  been  in  bed  ever  since.  There's  nothing  wrong  with  him.  He  just  won't  get  out  of  bed.  She  thought  travel  might  help  and  she  got  him  to  go  to  [REDACTED],  but  as  soon  as  they  checked  in  at  the  Vendome  he  climbed  back  into  bed  again.  She  took  him  to  Wellfleet  last  month  but  he  spent  the  time  in  bed.  He  likes  to  play  gin  and  acey-deucy.  He's  lost  his  job,  of  course,  but  they  seem  to  have  plenty  of  money.  Here's  a  copy  of  the  " b"evening  paper.  It  might  give  you  some  idea  of  what  the  place  is  like.  .  .  .&quot;  As  Mrs.  Heathcup  flushed  toilets,  opened  and  shut  doors,  and  showed  them  the  location  of  the  fireproof  wall  safe,  the  stranger's  lackof  interest  in  her  house  increased  until  it  seemed  to  be  a  kind  of  melancholy.  These  haunted  and  well-lighted  rooms  were  not  at  all  what  he  wanted,  but  where  did  he  want  to  live?  He  wanted  to  live  in  a  stone  croft  on  a  windy  moor,  where  rooks  were  strung  on  the  rain-wind  and  thunder  sounded  punctually  at  four  each  afternoon.  He  wanted  to  livein  a  Spanish  fortress  on  the  shores  of  the  Tyrrhenian,  where  he  could  sit  on  his  battlements  at  dusk  with  a  drink  and  watch  the  last  water-skier  wend  his  weary  way  home.  He  wanted  to  live  in  an  Irish  castle,  a  [REDACTED]  apple  farm,  a  Palladian  villa,  but  all  of  this  was  im-  practical;  this  he  knew.  Mrs.  Heath-  cup's  tragic  and  brightly  lighted  house  was  the  reality-the  place  was  com-  modious  and  efficient,  and  in  his  time  one  lived  in  such  places.  There  was  the  ghost  of  poor  Heathcup,  but  every  house  has  a  ghost.  &quot;I  think  it's  what  we  want,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;T'll  bring  my  wife  out  tomorrow  and  let  her  decide.&quot;  Howard  drove  him  back  to  the  rail-  road  station  then  and  left  him  there.  Suburban  waiting  rooms  are  not  main-  tained,  and  the  place  had  been  sacked.  Broken  windows  let  in  the  night  wind.  The  clock  face  was  smashed.  The  hands  of  the  clock  were  gone.  The  architect,so  many  years  ago,  had  de-  signed  the  building  with  some  sense  of  the  erotic  and  romantic  essence  of  travel,  but  all  of  his  inventions  had  been  stripped  or  defaced,  and  the  stranger  found  himself  in  a  warlike  ruin.  He  opened  the  paper  and  read,  &quot;The  Lithgow  Club  had  its  annual  dinner  on  Thursday  evening  at  Har-  vey's  Restaurant.  The  program  began  with  a  Parade  of  Sweethearts-wives  of  the  members-which  was  followed  by  a  demonstration  of  the  hula  given  by  Mrs.  Leonard  A.  Atkinson,  who  was  accompanied  byher  husband  on  the  ukulele.  ...&quot;  &quot;Seventeen  debutantes  were  pre-  sented  to  society  at  the  Gorey  Brook  Country  Club  ...&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Lewis  Harwich  was  burned  to  death  last  night  when  a  can  of  char-  coal  igniter  exploded  and  set  fire  to  his  clothing  during  a  barbecue  party  in  the  garden  of  his  home  at  23  Redburn  Circle.  ...&quot;  School  crease  ...&quot;  He  caught  the  7:14. "