 b"THE  hotel  at  the  corner  of  Des  Voeux  Road  and  Pedder  Street  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  used  to  be  called  the  Gloucester.  (It  has  now  been  re-  modelled,  I  believe,  and  is  no  longer  a  hotel.)  From  the  terraces  of  its  higher  floors,  in  the  years  immediately  after  the  Second  World  War,  one  over-  looked  the  busiest  intersection  in  the  city,  for  it  was  at  this  crossroads  that  the  trams  of  Des  Voeux  Road  joined  battle  with  the  traffic  of  Pedder  Street  and  Chater  Road,  and  no  detail  of  the  ensuing  holocaust  was  lost  on  the  pa-  trons  of  the  Gloucester.  Little  black  English  cars,  outnumbered,  fought  for  their  rights  with  bright  new  American  ones.  (Studebakers,  which  formed  the  taxi  population,  were  a  great  joke  to  the  British  colony,  being  as  long  in  back  as  in  front  and  giving  the  appearance  of  going  both  ways.)  Rickshaws  and  pedicabs  swerved  in  and  out  of  the  struggle,  the  rickshaw  coolies  sending  up  urgent  cries  for  room  to  main-  tain  the  rhythm  of  their  stride.  The  tram  bells  clanged,  the  small  black  cars  snorted,  thebig  bright  ones  gave  screams  of  delight,  and  every  so  often  an  expressionless  Colonial  Policeman-  a  Chinese  in  white  tropical  uniform  and  black  Sam  Browne  belt-would  rise  up  in  the  middle  and  give  the  signal  for  the  pedestrians  to  charge.  Into  the  melee  then  surged  an  excited  crowd  in  which  every  known  nation-  ality  and  profession  was  represented-  colonial  Englishwomen  in  linen  dresses  and  wedge  heels,  Chinese  wom-  en  in  silk  sheaths  and  platform  soles,  British  soldiers,  American  sailors,  businessmen  in  white  duck,  tourists  from  the  President  Lines  upholstered  in  seersucker  and  cameras,  White  Russians  looking  tragic,  Indians  looking  vague,  amahs  in  pajamas,  beggars  in  fearful  states  of  disintegration,  and  an  endless  stream  of  coolies  at  a  trot  carrying  an  endless  variety  of  heavy  weights  on  poles.  Because  of  the  placing  of  the  hotel  at  a  crossroads,  a  number  of  vistas  opened  up  to  the  eye  thankfully  lifted  from  the  dizzy  scene  below.  On  the  Pedder  Street  side,  the  hotel  looked  across  to  peeling  grey  stucco  on  the  arcades  and  pilasters  of  Jardine  Mathe-  son  &amp;  Co.-a  business  establishment  of  long  history  and  large  influence  in  [REDACTED].  The  upper  verandas  of  Jardine's,  which  were  glassed  in  the  following  year  to  provide  more  offices,  were  still  open  in  1947,  and  many  a  pleasant  and  promising  young  imperialist  was  to  be  seen  strolling  there  in  the  early  after-     noon-after  tiffin,  as  lunch  was  some-  times  called-across  the  cracked  tiles  and  fallen  plaster  which  showed  the  effects  of  recent  war.  The  lower  part  of  Des  Voeux  Road,  below  the  Pedder  Street  crossing,  soon  became  almost  exclusively  Chinese,  a  welter  of  shops,  stalls,  restaurants,  and  warrenlike  businesses,  so  that  this  view  of  the  street  was  a  forest  of  colorful  signs  in  Chinese  characters,  rising  from  the  dust-clouded  traffic  of  the  road.  Above  the  crossing,  on  the  other  hand,  Des  Voeux  Road  was  conventionality  itself-a  wide  and  well-paved  avenue  that  curved  for  half  a  mile  in  an  arc  of  pretty  shops,  caf\xc3\xa9s,  offices,  and  banks,  and  eventually  emptied  itself  into  the  Cricket  Ground  as  surely  as  a  great  river  must  find  its  way  to  the  sea.  Back  at  the  Gloucester,  one  looked  diagonally  across  to  the  General  Post  Office.  This  remarkable  consummation  of  colonial  architecture  had  been  fes-  tooned  by  its  creators  with  all  man-  ner  of  pinnacles,  cornices,  false  but-  tresses,  blank  balconies,  gargovles,  and  goddesses-a  triumph  of  matter  over  mind.  Beyond  the  post  office  one  glimpsed  the  sea,  surmounted  by  the  busy  Praya.  (In  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  one  can-  not  turn  one's  head  without  seeing  either  the  harbor  or  the  green  moun-  tain  along  whose  foot  the  city  lies.)  In  Des  Voeux  Road-that  is,  in  its  respectable  direction-was  the  prow  of  yet  another  arcaded  and  stuccoed  colonialbuilding.  This  prow,  although  it  went  by  the  cozy  name  of  Watson's  Corner,  was  in  fact  rounded  and  glazed,  its  princi-  pal  monument  being  the  chem-  ist's  shop  for  which  it  was  named.  As  one  approached  Watson's  Corner  from  the  Gloucester,  its  convex  semicircle  of  glassed-in  arches  gave  the  building  a  cheerful  effect  of  grinning  from  car  to  ear.  If  you  were  sixteen  at  that  time  and  living  in  an  Eastern  city  with  your  parents,  your  main  sensation  would  probably  have  been,  as  mine  was,  one  of  enforced  detachment,  for,  while  encouraged  to  observe,  you  were  for-  bidden  to  participate.  Though  constant-  ly  enjoined  to  appreciate  your  oppor-  tunity,  you  were  forbidden  to  seize  it.  I  spent  a  great  deal  of  time  leaning  on  the  rail  of  our  hotel  balcony.  IfI  descended,  it  was  en  route  to  a  tennis  or  tea  party,  or  to  decorous  dances  on  board  reassuringly  British  ships  of  war  in  the  harbor  where  I  learned  nothing  more  troublesome  than  the  difference  between  a  sloop  and  a  destroyer.  The  Gloucester  intersection  was  my  first  sight  of  what  is  called  the  real  world  (that  is,  the  world  you  imagine  to  exist  rather  than  the  one  you  actually  in-  habit  ),  and,  having  for  many  months  no  more  profitable  occupation,  I  was  set  beside  it  in  the  way  that  an  invalid  is  put  by  a  window-to  enjoy  a  spectacle  in  which  he  may  play  no  part.  On  the  colony's  social  map  at  that  time  the  principal  elevations  were  Gov-  ernment  House,  where  the  Governor  lived;  Flagstaff  House,  where  the  Gen-  eral  lived;  and  Admiralty  House,  which  sheltered  the  Admiral.  It  was  at  the  last-named  of  these,  one  evening,  thatI  was  fascinated  by  an  arrange-  ment  of  small,  circular  board  and  wooden  mallet  that  the  Admiral-who  sat  at  the  middle  rather  than  the  end  of  his  table-kept  beside  his  wineglass.  All  through  dinner  I  speculated  on  its  function,  fearing(for  the  adult  world  was  already  revealing  its  affinities  with  school)  that  it  was  reserved  for  the  delivery  of  some  humiliating  repri-  mand.  Ultimately,  the  Stilton,  fruit,  and  cabinet  pudding  having  been  suc-  cessively  removed  by  a  multitude  of  servants,  a  silence  fell.  The  Admiral  took  up  the  mallet,  and  struck  the  board  a  single  resounding  blow.  He  then  announced,  &quot;Gentlemen,  you  may  now  smoke.&quot;  This  was  the  signal  for  the  ladies  to  withdraw.  In  those  days  it  was  always  a  toss-up  with  me  whether  I  would  be  overawed  or  have  a  fit  of  the  giggles.  This  time  I  was  awed.  I  am  told  that  many  of  the  land-  marks  I  have  described  no  longer  exist,  that  there  have  been  additions  and  sub-  stitutions  and  that  I  would  not  recog-  nize  the  place.  In  my  case  too  there  have  been  changes,  and  the  place  might  not  recognize  me,.  Maybe  our  con-  ditions  have  not  so  much  been  altered  as  intensified.  [REDACTED]  in  those  postwar  years  was  a  stepping  stone  in  a  quicksand-  a  safe  place  from  which  to  go  to  places  less  secure.  If  one  wanted  a  change,  one  could  go  to  4368696e61,  or  to  Nan-  king  where  the  capital  then  was,  or  to  Peiping  (by  air,  since  the  civil  war  had  already  made  the  train  trip  precarious  and  the  city  was  in  a  sense  besieged).  In  my  case,  so  it  was  said,  such  a  trip  made  alone  would  be  unthinkable.  I  did  think  of  it,  though,  quite  often;  but  for  a  long  while  remained  planted  at  the  Gloucester  with  both  elbows  on  the  balcony  railing.  Inconclusive  attempts  were  made  to  place  me  in  the  ruined  shell  of  the  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  university  or  under  the  wing  of  the  French  Jesuit  school,  At  " b"one  time  I  was  to  be  packed  off  to  a  school  in  [REDACTED],  but  a  terrible  winter  there  intervened  to  save  me.  What  was  needed  was  an  occupation-an  occupa-  tion  being  distinguished  from  a  job  in  that  it  involves  fewer  qualifications,  a  lower  salary,  and  makes  no  pretensions  to  career-and  this  was  eventually  found  for  me.  My  occupation  was  in  a  place  of  authority-of  high  and  confidential  authority-an  office  concerned  with  the  colony's  security.  Regarding  my  own  task  there,  however,  there  need  be  no  secrecy.  I  was  charged  with  the  placing  of  flagged  pins  on  a  map,  each  pin  representing  a  merchant  ship  and  the  map  being  that  of  Far  Eastern  waters.  The  ships  voluntarily  gave  their  posi-  tions  at  regular  intervals  for  this  pur-  pose,  and  the  idea  was  to  maintain  a  convenient  daily  record  of  the  disposi-  tion  of  merchant  shipping  in  the  area.  At  first  I  applied  myself  enthusiastical-  ly  to  the  placing  of  the  pins.  When,  after  several  weeks,  it  became  clear  to  me  that  the  map  was  never  consulted,  my  efforts  slackened;  I  began  to  bring  the  flags  up  to  date  not  twice  daily,  as  instructed,  but  at  intervals  of  one,  two,  " b'and  then  three  days.  There  were  even  certain  ships-those  going  to  Macao  or  Swatow  or  Amoy-that  sailed  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  returned  within  a  matter  of  days;  and  these,  so  far  as  I  was  concerned,  never  left  port.  The  change  in  attitude  toward  the  map  was  the  result  not  of  indolence  but  of  common  sense.  What  kind  of  per-  son,  seeing  the  map  not  once  consulted  over  a  period  of  many  weeks,  would  have  diligently  moved  the  pins  twice  daily?  Through  what  delusions  of  self-  importance  could  I  have  goaded  myself  to  its  careful  maintenance?  I  was  a  rea-  sonable  person  and  had  merely  adapted  my  behavior  to  my  observations.  I  was  placing  the  flagsat  three-day  intervals  when  the  episode  of  the  Van  Heutz  intervened.  The  Van  Heutz,  a  Dutch  liner  cruising  the  [REDACTED]  with  war-weary  Europeans,  was  attacked  and  boarded  on  the  high  seas  by  Chinese  pirates,  who  seized  control  of  the  ship,  sailed  her  to  a  remote  bay  on  the  4368696e61  coast,  and  ransomed  a  number  of  the  pas-  sengers,  having  first  sifted  them  for  valuables.  When  news  of  the  drama  broke  on  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  a  baffled  group  of  officials  was  found  before  my  map,  vainly  seeking  some  trace  of  this  ship-  which  had,  alas,  not  yet  qualified  for  my  attention.  My  downfall  was  not  complete.  After  some  days  in  eclipse  I  was  re-  habilitated  and  also  allowed  to  chalk,     in  red  and  blue  crayon  on  a  different  map,  the  daily  gains  and  losses  of  the  civil  war.  It  was  the  most  delightful  office  imaginable.  It  was  staffed  largely  by  very  young  Englishmen  of  greatly  varying  personalities  and  backgrounds.  Lanky  and  fair,  short  and  swarthy,  languid  or  dynamic,  they  were  alike  in  my  eyes  in  belonging  irrefutably  to  the  real  world.  They  had  all  seen  active  service  in  the  war-yet  they  were  still  so  young  that  there  was  discernible  in  their  conversation  that  (not  always  negligible)  wit  of  the  Fifth  Form,  which  remains  with  many  Englishmen  throughout  their  lives.  They  were  fa-  miliar  with  Homer,  quoted  Auden,  and  on  their  free  afternoons  would  go  down  to  the  Dairy  Farm  Restaurant  in  Des  Voeux  Road  and  eat  up  platefuls  of  colored  ice  cream.  Enthusiasm  would  have  been  against  their  princi-  ples,  but  there  was  an  element  of  op-  timism  in  their  charm;  the  war  had  ended,  and  I  think  we  were  all  relieved  simply  to  find  ourselves  alive.  When  not  engaged  with  my  maps,  I  shared  a  small  office  with  the  filing  clerk,  a  Mr.  Crackenthorpe,  and  a  Chinese  translator  whose  given  name  was  Tik.  The  filing  clerk,  a  man  of  Pickwickian  appearance  and  good  na-  ture,  was  known  as  Mr.  C.  He  had  spent  his  entire  adult  life  abroad  in  the  service  of  his  country,  indefatigably  keeping  the  records  of  international  in-trigue.  Although  he  had  lived  in  star-  tling  places  for  staggering  stretches  of  time,  he  had  in  no  other  sense  left  his  native  land,  its  sounder  practices  and  better  characteristics  being  as  strong  in  him  as  on  the  day  he  first  set  forth.  He  uttered  few  words  of  his  own  language  and  knew  no  word  of  any  other.  His  maximum  effort  toward  bridging  the  language  gap  was  made  each  morning  when  he  gave  his  hearty  greeting  in  pidgin  English  to  the  pair  of  amahs  who  cleaned  our  offices.  Astonishing  expressions  then  fell  from  his  lips,  such  as  &quot;Catchem  top-side  cleanee  by  and  by&quot;  or  &quot;Wipem  deskee  chop-chop,&quot;  or  that  wistful  and  irrelevant  pronounce,  ment  on  the  greenness  of  far  fields,  &quot;4368696e61  more  far.&quot;  Tik,  on  the  other  hand,  was  fluent  in  various  languages.  He  worked  in  both  Mandarin  and  4368696e61ese,  but  his  mother  tongue  was  Hakka,  a  dialect  of  the  hill  people  in  the  coastal  areas  op-  posite  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  He  was  a  man  of  great  courtesy  and  control,  never  show-  ing  anger  or  impatience  or  giving  the  slightest  sign  that  he  was  suppressing  them.  Between  assaults  on  my  maps,  I  learned  from  him  Chinese  words  and  phrases  and  the  composition  of  certain  characters-all  of  which  I  have  inex-  cusably  forgotten-but  he  spent  most  of  his  day  bent  over  the  documents  or  newspapers  he  was  required  to  trans-  late.  His  face  struck  one  as  perfectly  matched  with  his  name  (which  was  pronounced  &quot;teak,&quot;  like  the  wood  ),  be-  ing  a  deep,  supple  sun  color,  glossy  yet  grainy,  and  richly  polished  by  its  en-  counters  with  the  world.  I  imagined  all  this  to  be  typical  of  office  life,  and  could  not  understand  what  people  were  complaining  about.  I  yearned  to  distinguish  myself  more  favorably  with  this  company,and  not  long  after  the  debacle  of  the  Van  Heutz  an  opportunity  presented  itself.  One  morning  as  I  was  faithfully  populating  the  4368696e61  Sea  with  my  colored  pins,  a  discussion  took  place  in  my  presence-a  discussion  concerned  with  a  mysterious  figure  and  his  sinister  activities.  Sinister  acts  and  mysterious  personages  are,  as  is  well  known,  a  commonplace  in  [REDACTED],  and  this  of-  fice  of  mine  was  in  one  way  or  another  acquainted  with  many  of  them,  consti-  tuting  as  they  did  the  very  commodity  in  which  it  dealt.  Theman  discussed  that  morning-whom  I  will  call  Mr.  Jarvis,  for  the  excellent  reason  that  that  was  not  his  true  name-was  distin-  guished  from  all  previous  cases  only  by  the  fact  that  I  personally  knew  of  him,  having  met  his  wife  on  various  occasions  at  the  Cricket  Club.  I  would  ' b" have  been  less  than  human-or  older  than  sixteen-had  I  not  divulged  this  on  the  spot.  The  discussion  took  a  gratifying  turn.  I  was  detached  from  the  map  and  within  a  few  minutes  had  told  all  I  knew  of  the  Jarvises,  which  was  merely  that  they  lived  in  4368696e61  and  frequently  made  the  short  trip  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  I  had  never  been  to  Can-  ton,  and  Mrs.  Jarvis,  on  the  latest  of  our  meetings  at  the  Cricket  Club,  had  invited  me  to  stay  with  them  there  whenever  I  wished.  It  should  be  remembered  that  my  employers  were  very  young.  Within  the  hour  I  had  written  to  the  Jarvises.  Within  the  week  I  was  setting  out  for  4368696e61.  Like  most  sudden  develop-  ments,  this  was  less  dramatic  at  the  time  than  it  now  appears  tobe,  for  I  was  merely  doing  what  I  might  in  any  case  have  done,  and  the  object  of  my  visit,  though  concealed,  was  nothing  more  than  to  observe  the  way  in  which  the  Jarvises  lived-whom  they  knew  and  where  they  went.  (I  don't  think  that  at  the  outset  I  thought  much  about  this  object;  the  true  significance  of  the  journey,  as  far  asI  was  concerned,  lay  in  being  sent  at  all  and  was  therefore  already  established.)  A  weekend  at  4368696e61  with  Cricket  Club  acquaint,  ances  seemed  to  my  family  to  be  a  thoroughly  acceptable  diversion  for  me,  and  I  myself  approached  the  outing  in  something  of  this  spirit.  I  do  remember  that  I  was  enjoined  to  a  deeper  degree  of  secrecy  than  I  had  previously  under-  taken  to  observe;  this  was  awise  pre-  caution.  HE  short  trip  to  4368696e61  could  be  made  by  boat,  train,  or  plane.  I  chose  the  plane,  for  I  had  neverflown  before  and  it  seemed  an  appropriate  oc-  casion.  The  Jarvises  undertook  to  meet  me  at  the  other  end.  I  left  after  lunch  on  a  Saturday,  so  that  I  could  be  back  at  my  maps  on  Monday  morning.  The  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  airfield  of  Kaitak  had  been  formed  on  a  narrow  strip  of  reclaimed  land,  on  the  mainland  oppo-  site  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]-on  the  British  side  of  the  border,  between  the  harbor  and  the  arid  mountains  of  [REDACTED]  4368696e61.  Of  the  planes  that  rose  there  in  confined  spirals  all  day  long,  only  a  few  were  commer-  cial,  the  remainder  belonging  at  that  time  to  a  big  R.A.F.  base.  The  office  of  the  airline  had  been  set  up  in  a  Quon-  set  hut,  and  consisted  of  two  or  three  scarred  desks  beleaguered  by  passengers  and  defended  by  the  company's  officials.  My  fellow-travellers  were  mostly  Chi-  nese-men  going  to  4368696e61  on  business  or  to  visit  relatives.  Some  wore  light  cotton  suits,  some  loose  jackets  and  trousers,  some  the  simple  poorer  suits  of  oiled  black  silk.  Through  some  standard  injustice,  I  was  led  to  the  front  of  this  crowd.  The  man  behind  the  desk,  a  young  Eurasian,  at  once  set  aside  the  papers  he  was  marking  and  consulted  another  page,  handwritten  in  English.  He  ticked  off  my  name  and  told  me  I  would  be  called.  I  was  sent  to  sit  down  on  a  wooden  bench  at  the  far  end  of  the  hut,  where  the  single  other  non-Chinese  passenger,  a  young  man  with  a  newspaper,  was  al-  ready  waiting  alone.  A  glance  at  this  young  man  revealed  him  to  be  an  American-his  light  hair  cropped  like  a  convict's,  his  loose  suit  worn  without  flair,  and  he  was  eating  something.  His  young  face  had,  so  I  complacently  thought,  the  unfinished  look  of  his  country.  When  I  reached  the  bench  he  looked  up  from  his  news-  paper,  then  folded  it  in  the  middle  and  put  it  down,  unaffectedly  preparing  to  talk.  I  had  always  been  warned  not  to  speak  to  strangers.  I  had  been  told,  too,  that  Americans  were  a  precipitate  people.  I  sat  down  at  the  other  end  of  the  bench.  The  tin  hut  was  preposter-  ously  hot.  From  beneath  the  bench  came  a  sound  of  heavy  panting,  and  a  dog  materialized-an  unattractive  dog,  an  old,  tough,  and  distressingly  hairless  dog-and  collapsed,  still  puffing,  at  our  feet.  The  young  man  spoke  to  me.  I  looked  at  him  obliquely.  He  was  holding  something  toward  me  in  his  fingers.  &quot;No,  thank  you.&quot;  I  occupied  myself  with  the  dog.  &quot;Here,  doggie.&quot;  I  ex-tended  my  hand.  The  dog  paid  no  at-  tention.  &quot;Doesn't  speak  English,&quot;  suggested  the  young  man  on  the  bench.  &quot;Possibly  not,&quot;  I  agreed  remotely.  &quot;But  perhaps  he  understands  it.&quot;  The  young  man  laughed.  He  brought  out  his  cigarettes.  &quot;You  smoke?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said,  unaccountably  pleased.  &quot;Going  to  4368696e61  for  a  visit?&quot;  &quot;To  stay  with  friends.&quot;  &quot;You  live  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;With  my  parents.&quot;  (Such  questions  were  unpardonable,  but  it  was  gratify-  ing  to  be  asked  them.)  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  remarked,  looking  me  over,  &quot;they  certainly  got  you  up  to  look  like  Alice  in  Wonderland.&quot;  He  plucked  at  his  own  sleeve.  &quot;Sharkskin,&quot;  he  said.  I  showed  polite  interest,  and  he  went  on  to  tell  me  that  the  suit  had  been  made  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  in  twenty-four  hours.  Certainly  it  showed  no  sign  of  prolonged  attention.  The  dog  heaved  itself  nearer,  and  the  young  man  nudged  it  good-na-  turedly  with  his  foot.  &quot;You  travel  much  on  your  own?&quot;  &quot;Oh  sometimes,&quot;  I  replied  carelessly.  &quot;How  old  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Sixteen,&quot;  I  said,  aloof  again.  &quot;Jesus.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  do?&quot;  I  inquired,  adapting  to  the  questions  game.  &quot;I  survey  airfields,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;to  see  if  we  can  use  them.&quot;  He  brought  out  his  card  and  gave  it  to  me.  &quot;I've  been  in  4368696e61  six  months,  surveying  for  the  company.&quot;  I  was  too  polite  to  ask  which  com-  " b"pany  or  to  look  at  the  card.  &quot;Have  you  liked  it?&quot;  I  asked  instead.  &quot;God,&quot;  he  said  clusively.  &quot;What  a  place.&quot;  I  nodded.  'This  thing  is  changing  so  fast.&quot;  &quot;This  thing,&quot;  I  cautiously  agreed.  &quot;God  knows  what's  going  to  hap-  pen.  A  couple  of  years  from  now,  all  this&quot;-his  gesture  had  no  reference  to  the  steaming  hut-&quot;will  be  gone.  Fin-  ished.&quot;  Unexpectedly,  he  reminded  me  of  my  colleagues  at  the  office.  In  every  way  their  opposite,  he  yet  conveyed  something  of  their  appeal.  He  glanced  up.  &quot;I  guess  we  can  go  now.&quot;  He  picked  up  my  little  wicker  suitcase.  &quot;Oh-I  can  carry  that.&quot;  &quot;No  reason  to.&quot;  In  his  other  hand  he  had  a  heavy  zipper  bag  of  his  own.  We  crossed  the  hut,  and  the  dog  fol-  lowed  us  with  incurious  eyes,  not  lift,  ing  his  head.  The  Chinese  passengers  were  filing  out,  and  we  fell  in  line.  The  plane  was  very  confined  and  smelled  of  fumigation.  &quot;These  Dako-  tas,&quot;  said  my  friend.  &quot;Terrible.&quot;  When  he  had  arranged  our  luggage  precari-  ously  in  a  mesh  rack,  he  added,  &quot;This  is  the  most  dangerous  airfieldin  the  world.&quot;  We  seated  ourselves  together  at  the  back  of  theplane,  and  he  helped  me  to  fasten  the  seat  belt.  &quot;If  there  is  a  worse  airfield  than  this,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;it's  the  one  we're  going  to  at  4368696e61.&quot;  &quot;What's  wrong  with  it?&quot;  I  asked  fearlessly.  He  grinned.  &quot;Just  to  give  you  an  idea,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  called  Flying  Cloud.&quot;  We  roared.  We  rushed  over  bumpy  ground.  We  tilted  and  rose  into  the  air.  One  passenger  wailed;  another  was  sick.  The  eroded  hills  came  alarmingly  close,  then  fell  away.  Widening  valleys,  improbably  green,  spread  out  from  a  sluggish  river.  My  companion  gave  me  a  pepper-  mint  for  my  ears.  &quot;When  I  get  back  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  might  look  you  up.&quot;  I  wondered  if  this  could  be  con-  sidered  picking  someone  up.  &quot;If  you'd  like  that.&quot;  &quot;I  would  like  it,&quot;  I  said  meekly.  \xe2\x80\x9cch.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  he  continued,  &quot;it  may  involve  telling  me  your  name.&quot;  I  told  him,  and  he  wrote  it  down-  with  difficulty  because  of  the  vibra-  tions-in  a  small  notebook,  and  printed  &quot;Gloucester&quot;  underneath.  We  were  silent  for  some  moments.  I  then  turned  to  him  and  leaned  forward  to  makemy-  self  heard.  &quot;As  it  happens,&quot;  I  shrieked  offhandedly,  &quot;I've  never  actually  flown  before.&quot;  I  never  did  see  him  again,  although  the  following  week  he  sent  me  a  post-  card  from  Taipei-which,  together  with  the  visiting  card,  seemed  to  add  up  to  substantial  tribute.  He  had  what  I  thought  of  as  an  authentic  American  name,  with  an  Old  Testament  first  name  and  a  middle  initial.  I  remem-  bered  it  for  years.  HE  Jarvises  had  sent  their  driver  to  Flying  Cloud,  and  this  driver's  name  was  Feng.  Feng  was  small,  brisk,  and  very  talkative;  he  got  me  quickly  through  the  Chinese  customs  (no  mean  feat)  and  into  a  green  Dodge.  &quot;Famous  airfield,&quot;  he  observed,  with  no  note  of  sarcasm,  as  we  drove  away  from  the  sheds  of  Flying  Cloud.  He  then  explained  that  Mrs.  Jarvis  would  meet  us  in  town,  and  that  Mr.  Jarvis  had  been  called  away  to  4368696e61  on  business.  A  bad  road  lay  across  flat  land  before  us  and  over  this  we  made  terrifyingly  good  time-I  digesting  the  departure  of  Mr.  Jarvis,  and  Feng  talking  a  great  deal.  Nothing  can  make  one  feel  more  alien  than  the  contours  of  Eastern  lands,  those  landscapes  that  have  never  heard  of  Romanticism  or  Impression-  ism,  that  will  not  play  the  game,  and  that  we  greet  as  fantasy  when  we  find  them  in  art.  The  curiously  separate  hills  with  their  fronded  single  trees  filed  past  us  as  we  raced  over  the  valley  floor,  in  the  muddy  trough  of  the  road.  &quot;Famous  burial  ground,&quot;  said  Feng,  nodding  to  a  terraced  hillside,  and  &quot;Famous  monument&quot;  as  we  passed  a  great  flight  of  steps.  There  followed  in  quick  succession  a  famous  wall,  a  famous  crossroads,  and  an  ill-famed  prison  before  we  entered  the  city  by  one  of  its  most  famous  boulevards.  There  was  Mrs.  Jarvis,  standing  at  the  rim  of  the  sidewalk,  her  open  para-  sol  resting  on  her  shoulder.  Feng  drew  the  car  recklessly  to  the  gutter,  braked,  and  leaped  out  to  welcome  me  to  the  famous  soil-which  indeed  formed  part  of  the  ill-paved  curb  onto  which  I  Stepped.  When  Mrs.  Jarvis  had  greeted  me,  she  sent  Feng  elsewhere.  I  saw  that  she  was  considerate  with  him,  making  sure  the  errand  would  not  keep  him  late,  inquiring  where  he  would  get  his  dinner.  When  she  finally  turned  to  me,  she  smiled  and  took  hold  of  my  fin-  gers,  and  we  walked  a  little  way  along  " b"the  congested  street  holding  hands.  It  is  not  possible  to  hold  hands  for  long  in  such  a  street  as  that.  (One  of  the  most  pleasant  of  Chinese  customs  is  for  friends,  particularly  a  group  of  young  people,  to  clasp  hands  as  they  walk  along,  but  this  is  achieved  by  a  chain  effect,  so  that  the  group  walks  in  linked  file.)  Mrs.  Jarvis  and  I  soon  parted,  but  the  contact  was  her  means  of  making  me  welcome.  I  now  suppose  her  to  have  been  about  forty-five-she  was  of  the  anomalous  age  then  belong-  ing  in  my  mind  to  relatives  and  school-  teachers.  She  was  pale,  patient,  rather  frail,  with  traces  of  that  flat-curled,  large-eyed  prettiness  that  in  my  child-  hood  was  associated  with  Alice  Faye.  I  do  not  remember  her  dress,  and  I  suspect  that  her  dresses  were  not  memo-  rable.  She  had,  for  an  Englishwoman,  a  low-pitched  and  indecisive  voice,  and  her  general  air,  though  passive,  was  one  of  appeal.  She  had  thought  I  might  like  to  see  the  shops  before  we  went  home  for  tea.  I  dutifully  took  an  interest  in  the  forest  of  little  shops,  the  bolts  of  material,  the  endless  plastic  shoes  and  handbags,  the  ivory  elephants  and  Madonnas,  the  jade  curios  and  jewelry  mounted  in  red  gold.  Out  of  deference  to  Mrs.  Jarvis  I  bought  a  pretty  handkerchief  in  a  linen  shop;  out  of  deference  to  Chinese  law  I  paid  with  a  huge  bundle  of     LJ  \xc2\xae  Chinese  bills  (the  currency  having  late-  ly  got  literally  out  of  hand)  instead  of  with  the  American  dollars  Ialso  had  in  my  wicker  bag,  and  in  this  I  was  possibly  unique  among  travellers  in  4368696e61  at  the  time.  Mrs.  Jarvis  hailed  a  pedicab.  In  the  pedicab  she  put  up  her  parasol-it  was  a  red  one  of  glazed  papier-m@ch\xc3\xa9,  the  kind  sold  by  hawkers  on  street  corners  during  the  rainy  season-and  I  won-  dered  if  she  did  this  for  protection  from  the  sun  or  from  the  beggars  who  plain-  tively  detained  us  at  every  turn.  Once  the  roofs  of  a  temple  were  pointed  out,  once  a  desolate  park  surrounding  an  unkempt  shrine,  but  there  was  no  sug-  gestion  that  we  should  visit  either.  The  road  became  less  commercial  and  less  crowded,  and  turned  at  last  toward  the  river.  The  Jarvises  lived  with  the  Europe-  an  community  of  4368696e61,  on  the  island  of  Shameen  in  the  [REDACTED]  River.  This  &quot;island,&quot;  which  had  long  ago  been  formed  of  a  mudbank  reinforced  with  granite,  lay  in  a  bend  of  the  river  and  was  at  one  point  so  closely  connected  to  the  bank  that  the  bridge  there  seemed  to  be  spanning  a  mere  moat-a  token  separation  of  East  and  West.  The  Jap-  anese,  Mrs.  Jarvis  informed  me,  had  filled  in  the  moat  with  earth  when  they  occupied  4368696e61  during  the  war,  but  it  had  since  been  dug  out  again.  By  whom,  I  wondered,  and  on  whose  orders?  It  was  a  strange  time  to  reacti-  vate  a  moat.  Shameen  was  forbidden  to  traffic.  Mrs.  Jarvis  and  I  crossed  the  causeway  on  foot  and  walked  down  a  shaded  road,  past  sober  Western  buildings,  none  large  but  all  substantial.  I  remem-  ber  the  silence,  the  freshness  of  the  trees  after  the  squalid  streets  we  had  just  come  through,  and  the  immediate  sense  of  boredom-for  here  once  more  was  the  enclosed  colonial  life,  in  this  case  divided  by  a  moat  from  the  uproar  of  reality.  Perhaps  it  is  too  much  to  say  that  this  atmosphere  was  only  emphasized  by  the  fact  that  the  British  Consulate  had  recently  been  burned.  It  had  been  burned,  not  as  a  manifestation  of  uni-  versal  change  but  in  what  might  be  called  the  old  spirit-as  a  reprisal  for  a  local  incident  involving  disputed  terri-  tory  near  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Roofless,  its  grey  facade  still  stood,  mounted  on  wide  steps  and  surmounted  by  a  charred  Hom  sot  ....  The  incident,  in  retrospect,  has  the  antiquated  air  of  a  self-con-  tained  protest  that  had  little  reference  to  the  world  in  general.  Mrs.  Jarvis's  apartment  was  on  the  third  floor  of  a  small  compound,  and  looked  onto  a  courtyard  of  trees.  A  houseboy  let  us  in,  but  there  was  no  sound  within  the  house,  and  little  light.  Hot  sunshine  came  dimly  through  rat-  " b"tan  blinds.  Ceiling  fans  silently  revolved  in  every  room.  A  narrow  bed  had  been  made  up  for  me  in  Mrs.  Jarvis's  own  bedroom;  it  was,  she  explained,  the  coolest  room  in  the  flat.  A  mosquito  net  was  looped  above  herdouble  bed.  At  the  far  side  of  the  bed,  on  a  night  table,  lay  a  pipe  and  a  copy  of  &quot;Forever  Amber.&quot;  These  were  the  first-and  last-details  I  ever  learned  about  the  person  of  Mr.  Jarvis.  The  living  room,  where  we  had  tea,  had  been  densely  furnished  with  cam-  phor  chests  and  with  blackwood  chairs  and  tables,  among  which  a  jagged  in-  cision  had  been  made  by  means  of  a  folding  screen.  The  walls  were  covered  with  photographs,  and  the  floor  with  mats  of  some  glossy  reed.  The  room  opened  into  a  second  salon,  more  gloomy  than  the  first,  where  the  dark  outline  of  a  grand  piano  could  be  dim-  ly  seen,  sailing  without  lights  like  a  ship  at  war.  Mrs.  Jarvis  brought  photographs  over  to  the  tea  table  and  identified  them.  This  was  Jeremy,  shown  here  in  his  flight-sergeant's  uniform  but  now  in  a  [REDACTED]  bank;  that  was  Philip,  study-  ing  to  be  an  engineer;  and  here  was  Janice  in  color,  a  rosy  version  of  her  mother,  charming  beneath  her  nurse's  cap.  To  the  casual  observation  that  she  must  miss  them,  Mrs.  Jarvis  responded  with  silence  and  a  motion  of  the  head  that  shook  back  tears.  The  evening,  like  the  afternoon,  was  an  oddly  domestic  one  to  offer  a  visitor  in  a  strange  and  ancient  city.  We  passed  it  sitting  by  the  screened  windows  when  the  blinds  had  been  drawn  up  to  let  in  the  dusk,  Mrs.  Jarvis  writing  letters  and  I  reading  &quot;Rebecca,&quot;  which  I  had  found  in  a  bookcase.  I  was  struck  by  the  loneli-  nessof  Mrs.  Jarvis's  life.  Was  it  differ-  ent  when  Mr.  Jarvis  was  there?  Did  this  gloomy  drawing  room  resound  to  the  hearty  (or  even  sinister)  laughter  of  cronies?  Was  it  ever  fully  lit  or  occupied?  One  somehow  felt  not.  Mrs.  Jarvis  kept  early  hours.  It  was  strange  to  be  going  to  sleep  at  ten  o'clock  in  the  very  heart  of  that  most  sleepless  of  cities,  stranger  still  to  be  camped,  as  it  were,  in  this  immaculate  clearing  of  a  man-made  jungle.  While  the  city  fought  for  its  jostling,  noisy,  desperate  existence,  Mrs.  Jarvis  and  I  sat  up  in  our  white  beds  reading,  the  fan  turned  off  lest  we  catch-unlikely  word-cold,  a  thermos  of  boiled  water  beside  each  of  our  beds.  Before  putting  out  the  light,  Mrs.  Jarvis  got  up  and  adjusted  her  mosquito  net  so  that  it  fell  right  around  the  bed.  She  put  lotion  on  her  hands.  She  did  not  say  she  was  glad  to  have  me  there  or  that  I  reminded  her  of  Janice,  both  these  things  being  apparent.  She  merely  kissed  me  and  climbed  back  beneathher  stifling  tent.  My  situation,  as  I  look  back  on  it,  seems  quite  extraordinary,  but  at  the  time  I  found  it  less  so.  At  the  age  of  sixteen  one  expects  almost  anything  of life,  including  much  more  straightfor-  ward  drama  than  is  likely  to  material-  ize;  for  all  I  knew,  the  position  in  which  I  found  myself,  if  not  common-  place,  was  a  fair  sample  of  what  one  might  reasonably  expect.  It  would  please  me  to  be  able  to  say,  in  retro-  spect,  that  I  had  begun  to  feel  re-  pugnance  forthe  object  of  my  visit,  but  I  think  this  was  not  the  case.  I  was  not  an  unduly  callous  child,  but  scruples  of  this  sort  develop  against  the  back-  ground  of  experience  and  are  not,  I  imagine,  commonly  found  in  adoles-  cents  in  a  spontaneous  form.  Mrs.  Jarvis  was  a  parent-that  is  to  say  that  she  was  of  parental  age  and  aspect  and  that  her  touchingly  maternal  at-  titude  toward  me  (illustrated  even  by  the  presence  of  my  bed  in  her  room)  confirmed  her  in  this  role;  I  was  still  at  an  age  that  views  almost  any  decep-  tion  of  a  parent  as  not  only  permis-  sible  but  even  essential  to  mutual  sur-  vival.  Above  all,  I  was  conditioned  by  a  wartime  childhood  to  think  of  such  missions  as  mine  in  terms  not  of  viola-  tion  and  duplicity  but  of  honor  and  even  valor.  I  make  these  points  not  to  excuse  myself  but  to  explain  what  follows  in  its  true  light-as  what  it  really  was,  an  insight  into  my  own  character.  As  I  lay  that  night  in  4368696e61  in  my  hot  little  bed  it  became  perfectly  obvious  to  me  that,  whatever  revelations  there  might  be  concerning  the  Jarvis  house-  hold,  I  was  not  the  one  to  make  them;  that  whatever  astute  question  might  bring  forth  an  avalanche  of  signifi-  cant  detail,  I  was  not  the  one  to  ask  it;  thatI  had  no  ap-  titude  for  such  a  task,  and  that  were  I  to  remain  a  week,  a  fortnight,  a  month  in  the  Jar-  vis  m\xc3\xa9nage,  I  would  be  none  the  wiser.  This  discovery  about  myself,  far  from  bringing  any  satisfaction,  was  dark  with  the  sense  of  failure.  My  desire  to  accomplish  my  mission  and  ingratiate  myself  with  my  superiors  was  very  great;  the  prospect  of  returning  empty-  handed  cast  a  pall  of  desper-  ation  over  the  whole  experi-  ence.  It  now  seemed  to  be  repeating,  in  some  way  I  could  not  determine,  the  character-  istics  of  the  Van  Heutz  af-  fair-in  which  I  had  displayed  an  inability  to  consider  all  the  possibilities.  Wondering  what  the  missing  possibilities  might  be  in  this  case,  I  fell  asleep.  The  following  morning  I  sat  on  the  living-room  floor  " b" and  read  &quot;Rebecca.&quot;  The  weather,  very  usual  for  the  time  of  year,  was  an  alternation  of  glowering  sunshine  and  sudden  downpour  that  sent  up  a  steamy  odor  of  vegetation  from  the  garden.  The  Jarvises'  apartment  had  its  own  contrasting  smell-a  shuttered  smell  of  mildew  and  insect  spray,  of  furniture  polish  and  face  powder,  the  smell  of  colonial  houses  in  the  [REDACTED].  There  was  about  this,  as  about  the  apartment  in  general,  something  so  true  to  form,  so  representative  of  the  British  commu-  nity,  as  practically  to  exonerate  the  Jar-  vises  there  and  then  from  any  sugges-  tion  of  foul  play.  Someone  operating  against  his  country's  interests  would,  one  imagined,  hardly  have  found  it  pos-  sible  to  align  himself  so  uncompromis-  ingly  with  its  attributee-might  even  have  introduced  a  note  of  interest,  some  telltale  innovation  of  taste  or  atmos-  phere.  Such  conditions  as  those  in  which  the  Jarvises  lived  could  not  be  reproduced  by  contrivance;  their  most  outstanding  feature  was  their  complete  lack  of  premeditation.  In  the  afternoon  we  took  the  ferry  some  distance  up  the  river  to  visit  friends  of  Mrs.  Jarvis.  &quot;They  are  Germans,&quot;  she  told  me.  By  this  time  I  was  sunk  into  a  despondency  from  which  not  even  the  promising  word  &quot;Germans&quot;  could  rouse  me,  and  when  she  added  &quot;Missionaries,&quot;  it  was  no  more  than  I  expected.  The  [REDACTED]  River,  which  at  4368696e61  is  approaching  its  estuary,  is  of  a  pre-  cariously  alluvial  color  and  a  con-  sistency  sometimes  closer  to  that  of  flowing  land  than  to  water.  Before  it  reaches  the  sea,  the  river  must  in  fact  pass  through  a  narrow,  steeply  banked  channel,  but  here  at  4368696e61  one  can  easily  imagine  that  it  has  completed  its  course  and  that  the  ocean  is  at  hand,  so  great  is  the  sense  of  a  harbor.  On  this  illusory  harbor,  dense  suburbs  of  sampans  rose  and  fell  with  the  river,  so  thickly  gathered  that  they  seemed  to  be  swarming  ashore  and  to  have  mingled  with  the  dun-colored  habita-  tions  on  land.  Families  had  even  made  temporary  settlements  on  the  rafts  formed  by  logs  moored  at  the  docks  of  timberyards.  Our  ferry,  a  game  and  grimy  little  affair,  kept  to  a  central  channel  more  or  less  cleared  for  river  traffic,  and  soon  left  all  this  behind.  Mrs.  Jarvis's  friends  lived  within  sight  of  the  river,  in  a  straggling,  al-  most  rural  suburb.  They  were  a  white-  haired  couple,  simple,  resigned,  and  kind,  who  had  spent  most  of  their  lives  in  4368696e61.  They  talked  of  change,  and  of  what  it  had  been  like  to  live  in  4368696e61  throughout  the  Japanese  occupation  (during  which  they  had,  embar-  rassingly,  not  been  interned  like  the  rest  of  one's  European  acquaintance).  Their  house  was  set  in  a  curious  little  plot  of  land,  almost  a  farm,  where  there  were  vegetable  gardens,  a  chicken  coop,  and  a  small  orchard.  The  house  itself  was  wooden  and  rather  run-down;  the  porch  on  which  we  sat  had  a  frieze  of  wooden  fretwork  and  was  floored  by  uneven  boards,  long  unpainted.  The  place  had  an  inconsequential,  forgotten  air,  like  the  provincial  setting  of  a  Rus-  sian  novel,  so  that  one's  eyes  constantly  wandered  toward  the  river  for  con-  firmation  of  one's  own  existence.  After  tea  the  old  man  fell  asleep  in  his  chair.  We  took  our  leave  in  whispers,  and  the  ferry  carried  us  back  to  Shameen.  In  the  end,  I  suppose,  the  prolonged  hush  of  the  weekend  got  the  better  of  me.  Or  possibly,  since  I  had  come  to  4368696e61  for  revelations  and  no  one  else  had  provided  them,  I  felt  an  urge  to  do  so  myself.  That  evening,  when  Mrs.  Jarvis  and  I  sat  down  by  the  windows,  I  talked  a  great  deal.  Her  very  reticence  invited  confidences,  a  vacuum  to  be  filled,  and  I  told  her  about  my  life  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  about  my  attachments  and  amusements-whom  I  knew,  in  fact,  and  where  I  went.  I  think  I  even  told  her  about  my  school  days.  That  I  stopped  short  of  enlighten-  ing  her  about  my  presence  in  her  house  may  have  been  due  to  good  luck  rather  than  discretion-for  although  she  was  a  sympathetic  listener,  she  saw  no  rea-  son  to  postpone  her  bedtime.  As  on  the  previous  evening,  we  were  in  bed  by  ten.  It  was  Feng  who  took  me  to  the  plane  the  following  morning.  Mrs.  Jarvis  and  I  said  goodbye  to  one  an-  other  at  the  Shameen  causeway.  We  promised  to  be  in  touch  soon,  and  she  gave  me  &quot;Rebecca&quot;  to  read  on  the  plane.  She  asked  Feng  to  take  good  care  of  me-which,  after  his  fashion,  he  did,  driving  me  frantically  to  the  airport  and  seeing  me  safely  on  board  the  famous  plane.  I  did  not  see  Mrs.  Jarvis  again,  al-  though  we  exchanged  a  letter  or  two,  for  the  Jarvises  moved  to  [REDACTED]  a  few  months  later,  taking  with  them  their  blackwood  and  camphor  trappings  from  4368696e61.  Perhaps  they  are  living  there  still.  My  employers  showed  understand-  ing  about  my  lack  of  success.  Perhaps  their  expectations  had  not  been  great,  or  they  were  relieved  that  I  had  not  proved  troublesome.  In  any  event,  after  the  first  report,  no  inquiries  were  made  of  me  and  I  was  allowed  to  goon  with  my  war-map  in  peace.  I  did  not,  of  course,  say  that  I  had  failed;  I  tried  to  convey  a  sense  of  mystery. "