 b"THE  sofa  sat  in  the  middle  of  the  I  living  room.  Terry  had  rolled  up  the  carpet,  and  it  lay  long  and  limp  against  a  wall.  He  had  dis-  assembled  most  of  the  bookceases-pine  boards  and  yellow  bricks-and  packed  the  books  into  cardboard  boxes.  The  boxes  were  stacked,  ready  to  be  taken  by  the  movers  at  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning.  Terry  stared  at  the  shiny  hardwood  floor.  He  said,  &quot;Laura,  you  know  this  floor's  in  good  shape.&quot;  His  voice  was  hollow,  echoey.  His  wife  was  in  the  bedroom  and  did  not  answer.  He  went  in  to  her.  In  a  tight  Z  shape,  she  was  crouched  close  to  the  floor  in  the  closet.  She  was  clean-  ing  out  two  years'  worth  of  old  shoes,  forgotten  dresses,  boxes,  dead  pocket-  books,  faded  travel  posters,  crumpled  felt  hats,  bent  wire  coat  hangers.  She  had  on  an  old  pair  of  blue  patterned  shorts,  a  black  turtleneck  sweater,  and  sneakers.  She  never  wore  such  clothes.  She  had  found  them  while  cleaning  and  packing.  How  small  and  neatly  disparate  she  looked,  her  beautiful  black  hair  hiding  her  face  as  she  leaned  forward.  She  reached  and  reached,  pulling  out  more  stuff-like  entrails  throwing  it  into  a  heap  in  the  middle  of  the  room.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  Terry  said,  just  for  the  sake  of  talking,  &quot;the  floorin  the  living  room  is  in  better  shape  than  I  remembered.&quot;  &quot;Mmm.&quot;  More  heavings.  The  calico  bedroom  curtains  had  been  taken  down.  The  white  walls  were  bare.  There  was  nothing  on  the  bureau.  The  pile  of  debris  on  the  floor  and  the  bed  were  all  that  was  left  in  the  room.  &quot;Laura,&quot;  Terry  said.  She  looked  up,  flushed.  Irritation  flickered  in  her  dark  eyes.  Terry  glanced  at  his  watch.  Mid-  night.  He  shrugged  and  went  back  to  the  living  room.  It  had  been  stripped  of  curtains,  too.  The  stereo  set  was  boxed,  and  records  were  heaped  on  the  floor.  The  overhead  light  glared  in  all  the  emptiness.  Terry's  footsteps  were  noisy-a  lonely  sound.  He  wondered  why  he  should  feel  lonely.  He  ought  to  be  excited.  This  place  had  been  too  small.  Terry  was  bony  and  tall,  and  he  had  always  been  bumping  his  elbows,  trip-  ping  over  something.  He  would  be  glad  to  get  to  the  new  apartment  in  the  city  nearby,  where  he  had  grown  up.  The  rooms  were  much  larger.  He  looked  out  the  front  win-  dow.  No  shades.  Dust  everywhere.  The  main  street  was  empty.  Far  away,  on  Long  Island  [REDACTED],  a  beacon  pul-  sated.  He  thought,  We  should  move.  Too  small.  Neighbors  nosy.  Town  too  little,  nothing  to  do.  He  turned.  Two  more  shelves  of  books,  and  that  would  be  done;  the  living  room  would  be  finished.  Then  he  would  pack  whatever  china  Laura  had  not  packed,  and  glassware,  and  anything  else  he  could  find.  Terry  stared  at  the  case  of  books.  Christ,  how  tired  he  was  of  them.  What  a  burden  to  carry  around  from  place  to  place  for  the  rest  of  your  life.  But  he  loved  books.  Laura  did,too.  They  sometimes  bought  fifteen  dollars'  worth  of  paper-  backs  at  a  clip,  and  then  complained  to  friends  that  they  were  broke.  How  many  of  the  books  were  still  unread-  yet  they  were  always  here,  waiting,  full  of  color  outside  and  possibilities  in-  side.  They  were  dependable,  unchang-  ing.  And  they  told  whatever  set  of  truths  and  lies  one  needed  to  have  from  them.  Terry  went  to  the  kitchen  doorway.  He  shouted,  &quot;You  want  another  drink?&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  Laura  said,  her  voice  muf-  fled.  Terry  opened  the  unlit,  musty-  smelling,  defrosted  refrigerator,  got  out  a  jug  of  warm  orange  juice,  and  poured  it  into  two  sticky  jelly  glasses.  From  a  bottle  of  vodka  he  added  a  large  shot  to  each  glass  and  carried  one  in  to  his  wife.  Sitting  on  the  floor,  she  took  a  sip.  &quot;It's  awful,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  it  helps.&quot;  &quot;'Too  bad  there's  no  vermouth.  I  could  have  made  Martinis.&quot;  &quot;But  there's  no  ice,  either,  honey.&quot;  She  set  the  glass  down  and  went  back  to  her  foraging.  How  could  there  be  so  much  stuff  in  such  a  small  closet,  Terry  wondered.  His  own  closet  had  a  few  sports  jackets  and  a  couple  of  suits  hanging  in  it,  two  or  three  pairs  of  shoes  on  the  floor.  He  took  a  swallow  of  his  drink.  It  burned  in  his  stomach  and  felt  good.  He  threaded  his  way  back  to  the  living  room.  He  glued  together  a  big  card-  board  box,  squatted  before  the  book-  case,  pulled  out  a  handful  of  paperbacks,  dusted  their  tops  with  an  old  piece  of  flannel,  and  shoved  them  into  one  corner  of  the  box.  He  didthe  same  with  another  pile.  Then,  to  balance  the  box,  he  added  three  heavy  textbooks  from  the  shelf  below.  The  next  book  he  pulled  out  made  him  pause.  It  was  a  large,  thick  one,  with  a  faded  orange  cover.  Its  title  was  engraved  in  a  narrow  brown  circle  on  the  front:  &quot;Ingall's  Encyclopedic  Dictionary  and  Comprehensive  Self-  Educator:  Multi-pictured  Edition.&quot;  Terry  turned  a  few  pages.  He  stood  up,  grimaced  from  the  ache  in  his  back,  went  to  the  sofa,  pushed  lampshades,  vacuum-cleaner  parts,  bric-a-brac  aside,  and  sat  down.  His  first  feeling  was  delight.  He  had  forgotten  that  the  book  was  still  among  his  possessions-he  had  not  thought  of  it  for  years.  Laura  must  have  put  it  on  the  shelf  when  they  were  first  mar-  ried  and  setting  up  the  apartment.  He  didn't  even  remember  bringing  the  book  from  home.  He  hefted  it.  Big  as  it  was,  it  weighed  a  trifle.  The  yellow-  ing  paper  was  cheap,  cracking.  A  stupid  book,  really.  A  big,  stupid,  cheaply  made  book.  How  long  had  he  kept  it?  Twenty  years.  What  a  dope.  But  he  had  cherished  it  once.  It  was  from  Ellen  Slocum,  the  woman  who  had  taken  care  of  him  for  two  years  when  he  was  a  boy.  His  mother  had  died  after  a  long  illness  when  he  was  eleven,  and  in  the  chaos  that  followed,  his  father  had  got  Ellen  to  come  look  after  him  and  his  two  older  brothers.  She  was  a  dishwasher  at  his  father's  small  restaurant.  Before  that,  she  had  been  a  seam-  stress  in  local  textile  mills,  but  they  had  all  closed  and  moved  [REDACTED].  Through  the  months  that  his  mother  was  bedridden,  Terry  walked  to  the  restaurant  from  school  every  noon  and  ate  a  hot  lunch.  He  sat  up  at  the  counter  and  made  faces  and  told  jokes  to  Ellen,.  She  laughed  until  tears  came  to  her  eyes  as  she  bent  over  the  stainless-steel  sinks  full  of  steaming  water  and  suds  and  dirty  dishes.  She  was  " b"fifty-seven,  an  old  maid,  cranky,  nar-  row-minded.  And  still,  she  was  kind.  When  she  moved  into  the  apart,  ment,  she  demanded  good  behavior.  Terry's  brothers  were  teen-agers,  used  to  doing  what  they  wanted.  And  they  resented  her  taking  the  place  of  their  mother.  Ellen  could  do  nothing  with  them.  For  a  time,  she  tried-shouting,  cursing  at  them,  getting  so  angry  she  wept-and  then  she  let  them  go.  They  were  wild,  free.  Terry  was  wild,  too,  but  much  younger.  He  liked  Ellen,  with  her  quirks,  her  funny  high-col-  lared  clothes,  her  odd  fits  of  affection.  Though  she  was  often  cross,  he  needed  her.  She  loved  him,  kept  him  close  to  her,  tamed  him.  She  took  him  with  her  on  bus  trips  to  the  country,  and  to  movies.  She  taught  him  manners.  He  learned  to  surrender  a  little.  He  obeyed  her.  The  family  was  poor,  and  out  of  her  own  money  she  bought  him  new  clothes,  a  bicycle,  games,  books.  Like  this  book-this  encyclopedia-dictionary  thing.  Was  it  the  last  remnant  of  Ellen?  He  could  think  of  nothing  else  he  owned  from  her.  He  would  hang  on  to  it.  He  could  still  remember  the  day  she  bought  it  for  him.  He  was  eleven  years  old.  It  was  raining;  he  had  to  stay  in.  There  was  a  knock  at  the  door,  and  Ellen  an-  swered.  Terry  could  hear  a  salesman  in  the  dark  hallway  giving  her  a  big  pitch  about  a  book.  When  he  heard  Ellen  say  that  she  wasn't  about  to  be  gypped,  he  went  out  and  asked  to  see  it.  The  salesman  quickly  held  the  book  out  to  Terry.  It  was  opened  to  a  full-color  double  page  of  carrion  birds  and  birds  of  prey-in  the  center  a  huge,  fierce  eagle.  There  was  a  [REDACTED]  condor.  There  was  a  kingfisher,  with  a  fish  still  struggling  in  his  cruel  beak.  Terry  said  he  wished  he  could  have  the  book.  El-  len  stood  there-tall,  heavy,  stiff-in  her  long  maroon  housecoat  and  flat  gray  felt  slippers.  The  hard,  dry  fingers  of  one  of  her  hands  moved  nervously  over  the  bun  of  her  gray  hair.  The  salesman  was  bending  over,  smiling,  breathing  heavily.  Terry  asked  again  if  he  could  have  the  book.  Ellen  took  it  from  the  salesman.  She  wet  a  finger  on  her  tongue  and  turned  pages.  Terry  knew  she  could  not  comprehend  what  she  was  looking  at.  She  was  half  blind  from  years  of  close  work  at  the  mills.  He  was  always  threading  needles  for  her;  it  took  her  hours  to  read  the  news-  paper  at  night  under  a  bright  lamp.  &quot;How  much  is  it?&quot;  she  said,  her  pur-  plish  lips  forming  a  tight  Yankee  line.  When  the  salesman  told  her,  she  said  it  was  too  much.  &quot;Please,&quot;  Terry  said,  and  he  squeezed  her  rough  hand.  She  looked  down  at  him  and  her  eyes  softened.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  she  said  with  dis-  gust.  She  paid  the  man  out  of  a  little  leather  change  purse  that  snapped  at  the  top.  Terry  read  in  that  book  for  hours.  Days.  It  was  one  of  the  first  adult  books  that  made  him  want  other  books.  It  was  full  of  knowledge,  most  of  it  useless  to  a  boy.  It  had  a  gold-colored  thumb  index:  Business-law  dictionary,  Medical  dictionary,  Pictorial  self-edu-  cator,  Office  worker's  guide,  Syno-  nyms  and  antonyms,  Atlas  and  gazet-  teer,  A  cyclopedia  of  nature.  That  last  section  was  on  slick  paper,  and  it  had  captivated  him.  Terry  opened  the  book  to  it  now.  In  full  color,  hundreds  of  species  of  living  things  moved  among  designs  of  leaves.  There  were  pages  of  butterflies  and  moths.  North  American  insects.  American  game  fish,  floating  together,  dropping  one  against  the  oth-  er,  swimming  in  every  direction,  with  their  common  names  beside  them  print-  ed  neatly  among  the  seaweed  and  blue-green  water.  Song  and  perching  birds-Terry  had  spent  a  lot  of  time  drawing  them,  soaking  up  their  colors.  There  were  wild  North  American  fur-bearing  animals.  North  American  reptiles-fearsome,  coiled,  with  bared  fangs.  Some  snakes  surrounded  piles  of  eggs.  The  coral  snake  looked  particu-  larly  beautiful  and  deadly.  There  were  conifers,  flowering  trees  and  shrubs,  wild  flowers,  and  garden  flowers-vivid  even  after  all  these  years.  Mushrooms  flared,  with  a  small  printed  warning  about  those  that  were  poisonous.  Amer-  ican  desertplants  bloomed.  Terry  closed  the  dictionary,  put  it  on  the  sofa,  and  shut  his  eyes.  It  had  been  a  strange,  lonely  time.  Ellen,  strange  and  lonely  herself,  had  been  good  to  him,  and  he  had  loved  her.  If  he  thought  about  her,  he  would  never  finish  tonight.  He  got  up,  returned  to  packing  the  rest  of  the  books.  He  sep-  arated  the  shelves  and  bricks.  He  went  to  the  kitchen,  made  another  drink,  and  took  a  long  draught.  Besides  depression  from  so  much  disorder,  he  felt  a  deep  melancholy.  It  was  one-fifteen  in  the  morning.  He  was  packing  china  and  glass.  Slow-  ly,  he  wrapped  the  delicate  pieces  in  newspaper  and  placed  them  carefully  in  boxes.  A  roaring  noise  came  from  the  bedroom.  Laura  was  vacuuming.  The  two  of  them  were  half  insane  now  with  fatigue,  and  half  drunk,  and  full  of  dust.  The  orange  juice  was  gone.  Terry  " b"poured  a  straight  shot  of  vodka  into  his  glass  and  finished  it  off  in  a  swallow.  He  took  another  swig  directly  from  the  bottle.  It  tasted  bitter,  and  stung  his  tongue.  &quot;Laura,&quot;  he  shouted  above  the  noise.  He  went  to  her.  She  said,  &quot;I've  got  to  finish  this.&quot;  She  looked  desperate.  Her  hair  was  full  of  cobwebs.  Her  eyes  were  heavy,  red,  and  teary  from  the  dust.  He  hugged  her  and  said,  &quot;What's  wrong  with  me?  I  don't  want  to  move.  It  would  have  been  O.K.  here  for  a  while,  until  we  began  to  have  a  fam-  ily.&quot;  &quot;You're  tired,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  books  were  crowding  us  out.  You  said  so  yourself.  You'll  feel  better  when  we  get  into  the  new  place.&quot;  She  touched  his  face  and  went  on  with  her  work.  She  was  so  calm,  steady.  He  loved  her  for  it.  He  thought  she  would  trans-  mit  her  serenity  to  him.  He  stood  there.  Soon  the  vacuum  tank  was  a  brown  beaver,  its  hose  a  striped  snake.  That  book-that  stupid  picture  dictionary.  He  got  it  from  the  sofa  and  brought  it  to  Laura.  He  shouted,  &quot;You  remem-  ber  this  book?  You  remember  I  told  you  about  that  woman  who  took  care  of  me  when  I  was  little  and  gave  it  to  me?&quot;  Laura  nodded,  banging  the  vacuum  hose  under  the  bed.  She  looked  at  him  wearily.  &quot;You  think  I  should  keep  it?&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Laura  turned  off  the  ma-  chine.  &quot;I  think  Pll  throw  it  out,&quot;  Terry  said.  His  voice  boomed.  &quot;It's  just  a  cheap  goddam  book  with  a  lot  of  use-  less  stuff  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Keep  it,&quot;  Laura  said.  &quot;You've  al-  ways  spoken  fondly  of  her.&quot;  She  turned  on  the  machine.  Terry  went  to  the  kitchen  and  put  the  book  on  the  table.  Slowly,  he  stacked  pots  and  pans  in  bushel  baskets.  He  looked  at  the  book.  &quot;I  don't  want  it,&quot;  he  mumbled.  The  place  was  a  wreck.  It  was  two  o'clock.  Trash  was  crawling  away  from  the  sink  toward  the  center  of  the  kitchen.  Terry  opened  the  back  door  and,  making  several  trips,  carried  all  the  trash  to  the  porch.  He  got  the  book  from  the  table,  went  out-  side,  took  the  lid  off  the  garbage  pail.  The  smell  of  orange  peel  and  coffee  grounds  rose  up  strong.  He  pushed  down  with  his  hand  to  make  space  and  put  the  book  on  top.  He  replaced  the  lid  and  went  back  into  the  kitchen.  Now  he  was  stuffing  all  the  cleaning  things-cans,  boxes,  jars,  bottlese-  from  under  the  sink  into  a  carton.  Sud-  denlyhe  noticed  that  the  bedroom  was  silent.  He  looked  in.  Laura  lay  asleep,  uncovered  on  the  bed  directly  under  the  bright  ceiling  light.  Pale,  with  dirty,  curled  hands,  her  mouth  slightly  open,  she  looked  like  a  small,  helpless  child.  Gently,  he  shook  her  awake.  &quot;Take  off  your  clothes  and  get  into  bed,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We'll  finish  whatever  there  is  early  in  the  morning.&quot;  He  set  the  alarm  for  seven.  Laura  dragged  herself  up  and  obeyed.  Terry  turned  off  the  light.  He  felt  lightheaded,  weak.  Automatically,  he  went  back  to  more  packing:  the  medicine  chest,  the  top  shelf  in  the  pantry,  with  its  accumula-  tion  of  tools,  wires,  clothespins,  paper  bags.Finally,  hecould  do  no  more  work.  He  drank  what  was  left  of  the  vodka.  E  took  off  just  his  shoes  and  socks  and  lay  on  the  bed.  He  did  not  even  think  of  sleep.It  would  come  without  effort.  But  sleep  did  not  come.  Even  the  liquordidn't  help.  Boxes,  dishes,  clothes,  trash,  the  vacuum  cleaner,  rows  of  books  marched  by.  He  bent  down,  lifted,  tied  it  all  up.  The  motions  oc-  curred  rhythmically  in  his  mind,  over  and  over.  And  then  the  thick,  faded  orange  encyclopedia  floated  before  him  in  the  dark,  its  pages  open,  all  the  colors  blurring-fish  and  fowl,  tree  and  flower.  Ellen.  She  had  died  ten  years  before-alone,  forgotten-in  the  poor-  house.  By  now  she  was  dust.  Who  would  remember  her?  Terry  got  up  and  stumbled  against  boxes  stacked  in  the  dark.  He  unlocked  the  back  door  and  went  out  to  the  porch  in  his  bare  feet.  It  was  a  chilly,  black  night,  soundless.  He  had  not  noticed  before.  Leaning  over  the  rail,  turning  his  head,  he  could  just  see  the  stars-faint,  constant-and  he  was  grateful  for  them.  He  straightened  up,  took  the  cover  off  the  garbage  pail.  Metal  moving  on  metal  shrieked  in  the  dewy  silence.  Terry  felt  inside  the  pail.  The  book  was  still  there  on  top,  flat  and  cold,  hard.  He  went  to  lift  it  out.  Something  held  him  back.  He  paused  in  the  huge  darkness.  Very  slowly,  lovingly,  he  moved  the  palm  of  his  hand  over  the  damp  book  cover.  He  left  the  book  where  it  was  and  replaced  the  lid  of  the  pail.  Back  in  the  apartment,  he  felt  his  way  to  the  bedroom,  took  off  his  clothes,  and  got  into  bed.  He  curled  up  close  to  the  warmth  of  Laura's  body.  She  lay  still,  breathing  deeply,  evenly.  He  wanted  so  much  to  say  something.  But  what  could  he  tell  anyone-even  her?  After  a  while,  he  fell  asleep."