 b"I  WAS  tired  and  did  not  always  understand  what  they  were  ask-  ing  me.  I  borrowed  a  pencil  and  wrote:  Peter  Hicomns  Carcary  1935-Itary  1956  But  there  was  room  for  more  on  the  stone,  and  the  English  clergyman  in  this  Italian  town  who  was  doing  all  he  could  for  me  said,  &quot;Is  there  noth-  ing  else,  child?&quot;  Hadn't  Pete  been  my  husband,  somebody's  son?  That  was  what  he  was  asking.  It  seemed  enough.  Pete  had  renounced  us,  left  us  behind.  His  life-span  might  matter,  if  anyone  cared,  but  I  must  have  sensed  even  then  that  no  one  would  ever  ask  me  what  he  had  been  like.  His  father  once  asked  me  to  write  down  what  I  re-  membered.  He  wanted  to  compose  a  memorial  booklet  and  distribute  it  at  Christmas,  but  then  his  wife  died,  too,  and  he  became  prudent  about  recol-  lections.  Even  if  I  had  wanted  to,  I  couldn't  have  told  much-just  one  or  two  things  about  the  way  Pete  died.  His  mother  had  some  information  about  him,  and  I  had  some,  but  never  enough  to  describe  a  life.  She  had  the  complete  knowledge  that  puts  parents  at  a  loss,  finally:  she  knew  all  about  him  except  his  opinion  of  her  and  how  he  was  with  me.  They  were  never  equals.  She  was  a  grown  person  with  part  of  a  life  lived  and  the  habit  of  se-  crets  before  he  was  conscious  of  her.  She  said,  later,  that  she  and  Pete  had  been  friends.  How  can  you  be  someone's  friend  if  you  have  had  twenty  years  authority  over  him  and  he  has  never  had  one  second's  authority  over  you?  He  didn't  look  like  his  mother.  He  looked  like  me.  In  4974616c79,  on  our  wedding  trip,  we  were  often  taken  for  brother  and  sister.  Our  height,  our  glasses,  our  soft  myopic  stares,  our  assurance,  our  sloppy  comfortable  clothes  made  us  seem  to  the  Italians  related  and  somehow  unplaceable.  Only  a  North  American  could  have  guessed  what  our  families  were,  what  our  education  amounted  to,  and  where  we  had  got  the  money  to  spend  on  travelling.  Most  of  the  time  we  were  just  pie-faces,  like  the  tourists  in  ads-  though  we  were  not  as  clean  as  those  couples,  and  not  quite  as  grown-up.  We  didn't  seem  to  be  married:  the  honeymoon  in  hotels,  in  strange  beds,  the  meals  we  shared  in  cheap,  bright  little  restaurants  prolonged  the  clan-  destine  quality  of  love  before.  It  was  still  a  game,  but  now  we  had  infinite  time.  I  became  bold,  and  I  dismissed  the  universe:  &quot;It  was  a  rotten  little  experiment,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;and  we  were  given  up  long  ago.&quot;  I  had  been  brought  upby  a  forcible,  pessimistic,  widowed  mother,  and  to  be  able  to  say  aloud  &quot;we  were  given  up&quot;  shows  how  far  I  had  come.  Pete's  assurance  was  natural,  but  mine  was  fragile,  and  recent,  and  had  grown  out  of  love.  Travelling  from  another  direction,  he  was  much  more  interested  in  his  par-  ents  than  in  God.  There  was  a  glori-  ous  treason  in  all  our  conversations  now.  Pete  wondered  about  his  parents,  but  I  felt  safer  belittling  Creation.  My  mother  had  let  me  know  about  the  strength  of  the  righteous;  I  still  thought  the  skies  would  fall  if  I  said  too  much.  What  struck  me  about  these  secret  exchanges  was  how  we  judged  our  parents  from  a  distance  now,  as  if  they  were  people  we  had  known  on  a  visit.  The  idea  that  he  and  I  could  be  natu-  ral  siblings  crossed  my  mind.  What  if  I,  or  Pete,  or  both,  had  been  adopted?  We  had  been  raised  in  different  parts  of  [REDACTED],  but  we  were  only  children,  and  neither  of  us  resembled  our  sup-  posed  parents.  Watching  him,  trapping  him  almost  in  mannerisms  I  could  claim,  I  saw  my  habit  of  sprawling,  of  spreading  maps  and  newspapers  on  the  ground.  He  had  a  vast  appetite  for  bread  and  pastries  and  sweet  desserts.  He  was  easily  drunk  and  easily  sick.  Yes,  we  were  alike.  We  talked  in  hotel  rooms,  while  we  drank  the  drink  of  the  place,  the  greppa  or  wine  or  whatever  we  were  given,  prone  across  the  bed,  the  bottle  and  glasses  and  the  ashtray  on  the  floor.  We  agreed  to  live  open-  ly,  without  secrets,  though  nei-  ther  of  us  knew  what  a  secret  was.  I  ad-  mired  him  as  I  could  never  have  ad-  mired  myself.  I  remembered  how  my  mother,  the  keeper  of  the  castle  until  now,  had  said  that  one  day-one  tree-  less,  sunless  day-real  life  would  over-  take  me,  and  then  I  would  realize  how  spoiled  and  silly  I  had  always  been.  The  longest  time  he  and  I  spent  to-  gether  in  one  place  was  three  days,  in  a  village  up  behind  the  Ligurian  coast.  I  thought  that  the  only  success  of  my  life,  my  sole  achievement,  would  be  this  marriage.  In  a  dream  he  came  to  me  with  the  plans  for  a  house.  I  saw  the  white  lines  on  the  blue  paper,  and  he  showed  me  the  sunny  Italian-style  loggia  that  would  be  built.  &quot;It  is  not  quite  what  we  want,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  55  better  than  anything  we  have  now.&quot;  &quot;But  we  can't  afford  it,  we  haven't  got  the  capital,&quot;  I  cried,  and  I  panicked,  and  woke:  woke  safe,  in  a  room  of  which  the  details  were  dawn,  win-  dow,  sky,  first  birds  of  morning,  and  Pete  still  sleeping,  still  in  the  dark.  THE  last  Italian  town  of  our  jour-  ney  was  nothing-just  a  black  beach  with  sand  like  soot,  and  houses  shut  and  dormant  because  it  was  the  middle  of  the  afternoon.  We  had  come  here  from  our  village  only  to  change  trains.  We  were  on  our  way  to  [REDACTED],  then  [REDACTED],  then  home.  We  left  our  luggage  at  the  station,  with  a  porter  looking  after  it,  and  we  drifted  through  empty,  baking  streets,  using  up  the  rest  of  a  roll  of  film.  By  now  we  must  have  had  hundreds  of  pictures  of  each  other  in  market  squares,  next  to  oleanders,  cut  in  two  by  broomstick  shade,  or  backed  up,  squinting,  against  scaly  noonday  shutters.  Pete  now  chose  to  photograph  a  hotel  with  a  cat  on  the  step,  a  policeman,  and  a  souvenir  stand,  as  if  he  had  never  seen  such  things  in  [REDACTED]-as  if  they  were  monuments.  I  never  once  heard  him  say  anything  was  ugly  or  dull;  for  if  it  was,  what  were  we  doing  with  it'  We  were  often  stared  at,  for  we  were  out  of  our  own  background  and  did  not  fit  into  the  new.  That  day,  I  was  eyed  more  than  he  was.  I  was  watched  by  men  talking  in  dark  doorways,  leaning  against  the  facades  of  inhospitable  shops.  I  was  travelling  in  shorts  and  a  shirt  and  rope-soled  shoes.  I  know  now  that  this  costume  was  resented,  but  I  don't  know  why.  There  was  nothing  indecent  about  my  clothes.  They  were  very  like  Pete's.  He  may  not  have  noticed  the  men.  He  was  always  on  the  lookout  for  something  to  photo-  graph,  or  something  to  do,  and  some-  times  he  missed  people's  faces.  On  the  steep  street  that  led  back  to  the  railway  station,  he  took  a  careful  picture  of  a  bakery,  and  he  bought  crescent-shaped  bread  with  a  soft,  pale  crust,  and  ate  it  there,  on  the  street.  He  wasn't  hungry;  it  was  a  question  of  using  time.  Now  the  closed  shutters  broke  out  in  the  after-  noon,  and  girls  appeared-girls  with  thick  hair,  smelling  of  jasmine  and  hon-  eysuckle.  They  strolled  hand  in  hand,  in  light  stockings  and  clean  white  shoes.  Their  dresses-blue,  lemon,  the  palest  peach-bloomed  over  rustling  petti-  coats.  At  home  I'd  have  called  them  cheap,  and  made  a  face  at  their  cheap  perfume,  but  here,  in  their  own  place,  they  were  enravishing,  and  I  thought  " b"Pete  would  look  at  them  and  at  me  and  compare;  but  all  he  remarked  was  &quot;How  do  they  stand  those  clothes  on  a  day  like  this?&quot;  So  real  life,  the  grey  noon  with  no  limits,  had  not  vet  be-  gun.  I  distrusted  real  life,  forI  knew  nothing  about  it.  It  was  the  middle-  aged  world  without  feeling,  where  no  one  was  loved.  Bored  with  his  bread,  he  tossed  it  away  and  laid  his  hands  on  a  white  Lambretta  propped  against  the  curb.  He  pulled  it  upright,  examining  it.  He  committed  two  crimes  in  a  second:  wasted  bread  and  touched  an  adored  mechanical  object  belonging  to  some-  one  else.  I  knew  these  were  crimes  later,  when  it  was  no  use  knowing,  no  good  to  either  of  us.  The  steering  of  the  Lambretta  was  locked.  He  saw  a  bicycle  then,  belonging,  he  thought,  to  an  old  man  who  was  sitting  in  akitchen  chair  out  on  the  pavement.  &quot;This  all  right  with  you?&quot;  Pete  pointed  to  the  bike,  then  himself,  then  down  the  hill.  With  a  swoop  of  his  hand  he  tried  to  show  he  would  come  straight  back.  His  pantomime  also  meant  that  there  was  still  time  before  we  had  to  be  on  the  train,  that  up  at  the  station  there  was  nothing  to  do,  that  eating  bread,  taking  pictures  of  shops,  riding  a  bike  downhill  and  walking  it  back  were  all  doing,  using  up  your  life;  yes,  it  was  a  matter  of  living.  The  idling  old  man  Pete  had  spoken  to  bared  his  gums.  Pete  must  have  taken  this  for  a  smile.  Later,  theold  man,  who  was  not  the  owner  of  the  bike  or  of  anything  except  the  fat  sick  dog  at  his  feet,  said  he  had  cried  &quot;Thief!&quot;  but  I  never  heard  him.  Pete  tossed  me  his  camera  and  I  sawhim  glide,  then  rush  away,  past  the  girls  who  smelled  of  jasmine,  past  the  bakery,  down  to  the  corner,  where  a  policeman  in  white,  under  a  parasol,  spread  out  one  arm  and  flexed  the  other  and  blew  hard  on  a  whistle.  Pete  was  standing,  as  if  he  were  trying  to  coast  to  a  stop.  I  saw  things  meaningless  now  -for  in-  stance  that  the  sun  was  sifted  through  leaves.  There  were  trees  we  hadn't  no-  ticed.  Under  the  leaves  he  seemed  un-  der  water.  A  black  car,  a  submarine  with  Belgian  plates,  parked  at  an  angle,  stirred  to  life.  I  saw  sunlight  deflected  from  six  points  on  the  paint.  My  view  became  discomposed,  as  if  the  sea  were  suddenly  black  and  opaque  and  had  splashed  up  over  the  policeman  and  the  road,  and  I  screamed,  &quot;He's  going  to  open  the  door!&quot;  Everyone  said  later  that  I  was  mistaken,  for  why  would  the  Belgian  have  started  the  motor,  pulled  out,  and  then  flung  open  the  door?  He  had  stopped  near  a  change  office;  per-  haps  he  had  forgotten  his  sunglasses,  or  a  receipt.  He  started,  stopped  abruptly,  hurled  back  the  door.  I  saw  that,  and  then  I  saw  him  driving  away.  No  one  had  taken  his  number.  Strangers  made  Pete  kneel  and  then  stand,  and  they  dusted  the  bicycle.  They  forced  him  to  walk-where?  Nobody  wanted  him.  Into  a  pharmacy,  finally.  In  a  parrot's  voice  he  said  to  the  policeman,  &quot;Don't  touch  my  el-  bow.&quot;  The  pharmacist  said,  &quot;He  can't  stay  here,&quot;  for  Pete  was  vomiting,  but  weakly-a  weak  coughing,  like  an  in-  fant's.  I  was  in  a  crowd  of  about  twenty  people,  a  spectator  with  two  cameras  round  my  neck.  In  kind  some-  body's  living  room,  Pete  was  placed  on  a  couch  with  a  cushion  under  his  head  and  another  under  his  dangling  arm.  The  toothless  old  man  turned  up  now, panting,  with  his  waddling  dog,  and  cried  that  we  had  a  common  thief  there  before  us,  and  everyone  listened  and  marvelled  until  theold  man  spat  on  the  carpet  and  was  turned  out.  When  I  timidly  touched  Pete,  try-  ing  to  wipe  his  face  with  a  crumpled  Kleenex  (all  I  had),  he  thought  I  was  one  of  the  strangers.  His  mouth  was  a  purple  color,  as  if  he  had  been  in  icy  water.  His  eyes  looked  at  me,  but  he  was  not  looking  out.  &quot;Ambulance,&quot;  said  a  doctor  who  had  been  fetched  by  the  policeman.  He  spoke  loudly  and  slowly,  dealing  with  idiots.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  heard,  in  English.  &quot;We  must  have  an  ambulance.&quot;  Everyone  now  inspected  me.  I  was,  plainly,  responsible  for  something.  For  walking  around  the  streets  in  shorts?  Wasting  bread?  Conscious  of  my  sweaty  hair,  my  bare  legs,  my  lack  of  Italian-my  nakedness-I  began  explaining  the  true  error  of  the  day:  &quot;The  train  has  gone,  and  all  our  things  are  on  it.  Our  luggage.  We've  been  staying  up  in  that  village-oh,  what's  the  name  of  it,  now?  Where  they  make  the  white  wine.  I  can't  remem-  ber,  no,  I  can't  remember  where  we've  been.  I  could  find  it,  I  could  take  you  there;  I've  just  forgotten  what  it's  called.  We  were  down  here  waiting  for  the  train.  To  [REDACTED].  We  had  lots  of  time.  The  porter  took  our  things  and  said  he'd  put  them  on  the  train  for  us.  He  said  the  train  would  wait  here,  at  the  border,  that  it  waited  a  long  time.  He  was  supposed  to  meet  us  at  theplace  where  you  show  your  ticket.  I  guess  for  an  extra  tip.  The  train  must  have  gone  now.  My  purse  is  in  the  duffelbag  up  at  the  the  .  ..  I'll  look  in  my  husband's  wallet.  Of  course  that  is  my  husband!  Our  passports  must  be  on  the  train,  too.  Our  traveller's  checks  are  in  our  luggage,  his  and  mine.  We  were  just  walking  round  taking  pictures  instead  of  sitting  up  there  in  the  station.  Anyway,  there  was  no  place  to  sit-  only  the  bar,  and  it  was  smelly  and  dark.&quot;  No  one  believed  a  word  of  this,  of  course.  Would  you  give  your  clothes,  your  passport,  your  traveller's  checks  to  a  porter?  A  man  you  had  never  seen  in  your  life  before?  A  bandit  dis-  guised  as  a  porter,  with  a  stolen  cap  on  his  head?  &quot;You  could  not  have  taken  that  train  without  showing  your  passport,&quot;  a  careful  foreign  voice  objected.  &quot;What  are  you  two,  anyway?&quot;  said  the  man  from  the  change  office.  His  was  a  tough,  old-fashioned  movie-  American  accent.  He  was  puffy-eyed  " b"and  small,  but  he  seemed  superior  to  us,  for  he  wore  an  impeccable  shirt.  Pete,  on  the  sofa,  looked  as  if  he  had  been  poisoned,  or  stepped  on.  &quot;What  are  you?&quot;  the  man  from  the  change  office  said  again.  &quot;Students'  Ameri-  cans?  No?  What,  then?  Swedes?&quot;  I  saw  what  the  doctor  had  been  trying  to  screen  from  me:  a  statue's  marble  eye.  The  tourist  who  spoke  the  careful  foreign  English  said,  &quot;Be  careful  of  the  pillows.&quot;  &quot;What?  What?&quot;  screamed  the  put-  upon  person  who  owned  them.  &quot;Blood  is  coming  out  of  his  ears,&quot;  said  the  tourist,  halting  between  words.  &quot;That  is  a  bad  sign.&quot;  He  seemed  to  search  his  memory  for  a  better  Eng-  lish  word.  &quot;An  unfortunate  sign,&quot;  he  said,  and  put  his  hand  over  his  mouth.  PETE\xe2\x80\x99S  father  and  mother  flew  from  [REDACTED]  when  they  had  my  cable.  They  made  flawless  arrangements  by  telephone,  and  knew  exactly  what  to  bring.  They  had  a  sunny  room  look-  ing  onto  rusty  palms  and  a  strip  of  beach  about  a  mile  from  where  the  accident  had  been.  I  sat  against  one  of  the  windows  and  told  them  what  I  thought  I  remembered.  I  looked  at  the  white  walls,  the  white  satin  bed-  spreads,  at  Mrs.  Higgins'  spotless  dress-  ing  case,  and  finally  down  at  my  hands.  His  parents  had  not  un-  derstood,  until  now,  that  ten  days  had  gone  by  since  Pete's  death.  &quot;What  have  you  been  doing,  dear,  all  alone?&quot;  said  Mrs.  Higgins,  gently.  &quot;Just  waiting,  after  I  cabled  you.&quot;  They  seemed  to  be  expecting  more.  &quot;I've  been  to  the  movies,&quot;  I  said.  From  this  room  we  could  hear  the  shrieks  of  children  playing  on  the  sand.  &quot;Are  -they  orphans?&quot;  asked  Mrs.  Higgins,  for  they  were  little  girls,  dressed  alike,  with  soft  pink  sun  hats  covering  their  heads.  &quot;It  seems  to  be  a  kind  of  summer  camp,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  was  wondering  about  them,  too.&quot;  &quot;It  would  make  an  at-  tractive  picture,&quot;  said  Pete's  mother,  aftera  pause.  &quot;'The  blue  sea,  and  the  nuns,  and  all  those  bright  hats.  It  would  look  nice  in  a  dining  room.&quot;     They  were  too  sick  to  reproach  me.  My  excuse  for  not  having  told  them  sooner  was  that  I  hadn't  been  thinking,  and  they  didn't  ask  me  for  it.  I  could  only  repeat  what  seemed  important  now.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  go  back  home  just  yet&quot;  was  an  example.  I  was  already  in  the  future,  which  must  have  hurt  them.  &quot;I  have  a  girl  friend  in  the  Embassy  in  [REDACTED].  I  can  stay  with  her.&quot;  I  scarcely  moved  my  lips.  They  had  to  strain  to  hear.  I  held  still,  look-  ing  down  at  my  fingers.  I  was  very  brown,  sun  streaks  in  my  hair,  more  graceful  than  at  my  wedding,  where  I  knew  they  hadfound  me  maladroit-  a  great  lump  of  a  Camp  Fire  Girl.  That  was  how  I  had  seen  myself  in  my  father-in-law's  eyes.  Extremes  of  shock  had  brought  me  near  some  ideal  they  had  of  prettiness.  I  appeared  now  much  more  the  kind  of  girl  they'd  have  wanted  as  Pete's  wife,  So  they  had  come  for  nothing.  They  were  not  to  see  him,  or  bury  him,  or  fetch  home  his  bride.  All  I  had  to  show  them  was  a  still  unlabelled  grave.  When  I  dared  look  at  them,  I  saw  their  way  of  being  was  not  Pete's.  Neither  had  his  soft  selective  stare.  Mr.  Higgins'  eyes  were  a  fanatic  blue.  He  was  thin  and  sunburned  and  unused  to  nonsense.  Summer  and  winter  he  travelled  with  his  wife  in  climates  that  were  bad  for  her  skin.  She  had  the  fair,  papery  coloring  that  requires  constant  vigilance.  All  this  I  knew  because  of  Pete.  They  saw  his  grave  at  the  best  time  of  day,  in  the  late  afternoon,  with  the  light  at  a  slant.  The  cemetery  was  in  a  valley  between  two  plaster  towns.  A  flash  of  the  sea  was  visible,  a  corner  of  ultramarine.  They  saw  a  stone  wall  covered  with  roses,  pink  and  white  and  near-white,  open,  without  secrets.  The  hiss  of  traffic  on  the  road  came  to  us,  softer  than  rain;  then  true  rain  came  down,  and  we  ran  to  our  waiting  taxi  through  a  summer  storm.  Later  they  saw  the  station  where  Pete  had  left  our  luggage  but  never  come  back.  Like  Pete-as  Pete  had  intended  to-they  were  travelling  to  [REDACTED].  Under  a  glass  shelter  before  the  station  I  paused  and  said,  &quot;That  was  where  it  happened,  down  there.&quot;  I  pointed  with  my  white  glove.  I  was  not  as  elegant  as  Mrs.  Higgins,  but  I  was  not  a  source  of  em-  barrassment.  I  wore  gloves,  stockings,  shoes.  The  steep  street  under  rain  was  black  as  oil.  Everything  was  reflected  upside  down.  The  neon  signs  of  the  change  office  and  the  pharmacy  swam  deeply  in  the  pavement.  &quot;I'd  like  to  thank  the  people  who  were  so  kind,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Higgins.  &quot;Is  there  time?  Shirley,  I  suppose  you  got  their  names?&quot;  &quot;Nobody  was  kind,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Shirley!  We've  met  the  doctor,  and  the  minister,  but  you  said  there  was  a  policeman,  and  a  Dutch  gentle-  man,  and  a  lady-you  were  in  this  lady'sliving  room.&quot;  &quot;They  were  all  there,  but  no  one  was  kind.&quot;  &quot;The  bike's  paid  for?&quot;  asked  Mr.  Higgins  sudden-  ly     &quot;Yes.  I  paid.  And  I  paid  for  having  the  sofa  cushions  cleaned.&quot;  What  sofa  cushions?  What  was  I  talking  about?  They  seemed  petrified,  un-  der  the  glass  shelter,  out  of  the  rain.  They  could  not  take  their  eyes  away  from  the  place  I  had  said  was  there.  They  never  blamed  me,  never  by  a  word  or  a  hidden  meaning.  I  had  ex-  plained,  more  than  once,  how  the  porter  that  day  had  not  put  our  bags  on  the  train  after  all  but  had  stood  waiting  at  the  customs  bar-  rier,  wondering  what  had  become  of  us.  I  told  them  how  I  had  found  every-  thing  intact-passports  and  " b"checks  and  maps  and  sweaters  and  shoes  ..  .  They  couldnot  grasp  the  im-  portance  of  it.  They  knew  that  Pete  had  chosen  me,  and  gone  away  with  me,  and  they  never  sawhim  again.  An  unreliable  guide  had  taken  them  to  a  foreign  graveyard  and  told  them,  with-  out  evidence,  that  now  he  was  there.  &quot;I  still  don't  see  how  anyone  could  have  thought  Pete  was  stealing,&quot;  said  his  mother.  &quot;What  would  Pete  have  wanted  with  someone's  old  bike?&quot;  HEY  were  flying  home  from  [REDACTED].  They  loathed  4974616c79  now,  and  they  had  a  special  aversion  to  the  sun-  ny  room  where  I  had  described  Pete's  death.  We  three  sat  in  the  restaurant  at  the  airport,  and  they  spoke  quietly,  considerately,  because  the  people  at  the  table  next  to  ours  were  listening  to  a  football  match  on  a  portable  radio.  I  closed  my  hand  into  a  fist  and  let  it  rest  on  the  table.  I  imagined  myself  at  home,  saying  to  my  mother,  &quot;All  right,  real  life  has  begun.  What's  your  next  prophecy?&quot;  I  was  not  flying  with  them.  I  was  seeing  them  off.  Mrs.  Higgins  sat  poised  and  prepared  in  her  linen  coat,  with  her  large  handbag,  and  her  cos-  metics  and  airsickness  tablets  in  her  dressing  case,  and  her  diamond  maple  leaf  so  she  wouldn't  be  mistaken  for  an  American,  and  her  passport  ready  to  be  shown  to  anyone.  Pale  gloves  lay  folded  over  the  clasp  of  the  dressing  case.  &quot;You'll  want  to  go  to  your  own  people,  I  know,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  you  have  a  home  with  us.  You  mustn't  forget  it.&quot;  She  paused.  I  said  nothing,  and  so  she  continued,  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  do,  dear?  I  mean,  after  you  have  visited  your  friend.  You  mustn't  be  lonely.&quot;  I  muttered  whatever  seemed  sensi-  ble.  &quot;T'll  have  to  get  a  job.  I've  never  had  one  and  I  don't  know  anything  much.  Ican't  even  type-not  proper-  ly.&quot;  Again  they  gave  me  this  queer  im-  pression  of  expecting  something  more.  What  did  they  want?  &quot;Pete  said  it  was  no  good  learning  anything  if  you  couldn't  type.  He  said  it  was  the  only  useful  thing  he  could  do.&quot;  In  the  eyes  of  his  parents  was  the  same  wound.  I  had  told  them  some-  thing  about  him  they  hadn't  known.  &quot;Well,  I  understand,&quot;  said  his  mother,  presently.  &quot;At  least,  I  think  I  (100),  They  imagine  I  want  to  be  near  the  grave,  I  supposed.  They  think  that's  why  I'm  staying  on  the  same  side  ofthe  world.  Pete  and  I  had  been  waiting  for  a  train;  now  I  had  taken  it  without  him.  I  was  waiting  again.  Even  if  I  were  to  visit  the  cemeteryevery  day,  he  would  never  speak.  His  last  words  had  not  been  for  me  but  to  a  policeman.  He  would  have  said  something  to  me,  surely,  if  everyone  hadn't  been  in  such  a  hurry  to  get  him  out  of  the  way.  His  mind  was  quenched,  and  his  body  out  of  sight.  &quot;You  don't  love  with  your  soul,&quot;  I  had  cried  to  the  old  clergyman  at  the  funeral-an  offensive  remark,judging  from  the  look  on  his  face  as  he  turned  it  aside.  Now  I  was  careful.  The  desti-  nation  of  a  soul  was  of  no  interest.  The  death  of  a  voice-now,  that  was  real.  The  Dutchman  suddenly  cover-  ing  his  mouth  was  horror,  and  a  broken  elbow  was  true  pain.  But  I  was  care-  ful;  I  kept  this  to  myself.  &quot;You're  our  daughter  now,&quot;  Pete's  father  said.  &quot;I  don't  think  I  want  you  to  have  to  worry  about  a  job.  Not  yet.&quot;  Mr.  Higgins  happened  to  know  my  family's  exact  status.  My  father  had  not  left  us  well  off,  and  my  mother  had  given  everything  she  owned  to  a  sect  thatdid  not  believe  in  blood  transfusions.  She  expected  the  end  of  the  world,  and  would  not  eat  an  egg  unless  she  had  first  met  the  hen.  That  was  Mr.  Higgins'  view.     -OsbpEN  NasH  &quot;Shirley  must  work  if  that's  what  she  wants  to  do,&quot;  Mrs.  Higgins  said  softly.  &quot;I  do  want  to!&quot;  I  imagined  myself,  that  day,  in  a  river  ofpeople  pouring  into  subways.  &quot;I'm  fixing  something  up  for  you,  just  the  same,&quot;  said  Mr.  Higgins  hurriedly,  as  if  he  would  not  be  in-  terrupted  by  women.  Mrs.  Higginsallowed  her  pale  fore-  head  to  wrinkle,  under  her  beige  veil.  Was  it  not  better  to  struggle  and  to  work,  she  asked.  Wasn't  that  real  life?  Would  it  notkeep  Shirley  busy,  take  her  mind  off  her  loss,  her  disappoint-  ment,  her  tragedy,  if  you  like  (though  &quot;tragedy&quot;  was  not  an  acceptable  way  of  looking  at  fate),  if  she  had  to  think  about  her  daily  bread?  &quot;The  allowance  I'm  going  to  make  her  won't  stop  her  from  working,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  was  going  to  set  something  up  for  the  kids  anyway.&quot;  She  seemed  to  approve;  she  had  questioned  him  only  out  of  some  pru-  dent  system  of  ethics.  He  said  to  me,  &quot;I  always  have  to  remember  I  could  go  any  minute,  just  like  that.  I've  got  a  heart.&quot;  He  tapped  it-tapped  his  light  suit.  &quot;Meantime  you  better  start  with  this.&quot;  He  gave  me  the  envelope  that  had  been  close  to  his  heart  until  now.  He  seemed  diffident,  made  ashamed  by  money,  and  by  death,  but  it  was  he  and  not  his  wife  who  had  asked  if  there  was  a  hope  that  Pete  had  left  a  child.  No,  I  had  told  him.  " b"I  had  wondered,  too,  but  now  I  was  sure.  &quot;Then  Shirley  is  all  we've  got  left,&quot;  he  had  said  to  his  wife,  and  I  thought  they  seemed  bankrupt,  having  nothing  but  me.  &quot;If  that's  a  check  on  a  bank  at  home,  it  might  take  too  long  to  clear,&quot;  said  his  wife.  &quot;After  all  Shirley's  been  through,  she  needs  a  fair-sized  sum  right  away.&quot;  &quot;She's  had  that,  Betty,&quot;  said  Mr.  Higgins,  smiling.  I  had  lived  this:  three  round  a  table,  the  smiling  parents.  Pete  had  said,  They  smile,  they  go  on  talking.  You  wonder  what  goes  on.&quot;  &quot;How  you  manage  everything  you  do  without  a  secretary  with  you  all  the  time  I  just  don't  know,&quot;  said  his  wife,  all  at  once  admiring  him.  &quot;You've  been  saying  that  for  twen-  ty-two  years,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Twenty-three,  now.&quot;  With  this  the  conversation  came  to  an  end  and  they  sat  staring,  puzzled,  not  overcome  by  life  but  suddenly  lost  to  it,  out  of  touch.  The  photograph  Pete  carried  of  his  mother,  that  was  in  his  wallet  when  he  died,  had  been  taken  before  her  marriage,  with  a  felt  hat  all  to  one  side,  and  an  organdie  collar,  and  Ginger  Rogers  hair.  It  was  easier  to  imagine  Mr.  Higgins  young-a  young  Gary  Cooper.  My  father-in-  law's  blue  gaze  rested  on  me  now.  Never  in  a  million  years  would  he  have  picked  me  as  a  daughter-in-law.  I  knew  that;  I  understood.  Pete  was  part  of  him,  and  Pete,  with  all  the  girls  he  had  to  choose  from,  had  chosen  me.  When  Mr.  Higgins  met  my  mother  at  the  wedding,  he  thanked  God,  and  was  overheard  being  thankful,  that  the  wedding  was  not  in  [REDACTED].  Remem-  bering  my  mother  that  day,  withher  glasses  on  her  nose  and  a  strange  bor-  rowed  hat  on  her  head,  and  recalling  Mr,  Higgins'  face,  I  thought  of  words  that  would  keep  me  from  laughing.  I  found,  at  random,  &quot;threesome,&quot;  &quot;smother,&quot;  &quot;gamblirg,&quot;  &quot;habeas  cor-  pus,&quot;  &quot;sibling.&quot;  ...  &quot;How  is  your  mother,  Shirley?!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Higgins.  &quot;I  had  a  letter....  She's  working  with  a  pendulum  now.&quot;  &quot;A  pendulum?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  A  weight  on  a  string,  sort  of.  It  makes  a  diagnosis-whether  you've  got  something  wrong  with  your  stom-  ach,  if  it's  an  ulcer,  or  what.  She  can  use  it  to  tell  when  you're  pregnant  and  if  the  baby  will  be  a  girl  or  a  boy.  It  depends  whether  it  swings  north-  south  or  east-west.&quot;  &quot;Can  the  pendulum  tell  who  the  father  is?&quot;  said  Mr.  Higgins. &quot;They  are  useful  for  people  who  are  afraid  of  doctors,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hig-  gins,  and  she  fingered  her  neat  gloves,  and  smiled  to  herself.  &quot;Someone  who  won't  hear  the  truth  from  a  doctor  will  listen  to  any  story  from  a  woman  with  a  pendulum  ora  piece  of  crystal.&quot;  &quot;Or  a  stone  that  changes  color,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;My  mother  had  one  of  those.  When  our  spaniel  had  mastoids  it  turned  violet.&quot;  She  glanced  at  me  then,  and  caught  in  her  breath,  but  her  husband,  by  a  certain  amount  of  angry  fidgeting,  made  us  change  the  subject.  That  was  the  one  moment  she  and  I  were  close  to  each  other-something  to  do  with  quirky  female  humor.  [REDACTED].  Hicotns  did  not  die  ofa  heart  attack,  as  he  had  confidently  ex-  pected,  but  a  few  months  after  this  Mrs.  Higgins  said  to  her  maid  in  the  kitchen,  &quot;I've  got  a  terrible  pain  in  my  head.  I'd  better  lie  down.&quot;  Pete's  father  wrote,  &quot;She  knew  what  the  mat-  ter  was,  but  she  never  said.  Typical.&quot;  I  inherited  a  legacy  and  some  jewelry  from  her,  and  wondered  why.  I  had  been  careless  about  writing.  I  could  not  write  the  kind  of  letters  she  seemed  to  want.  How  could  I  write  to  some-  one  I  hardly  knew  about  someone  else  who  did  not  exist?  Mr.  Higgins  mar-  ried  the  widow  of  one  of  his  closest  friends-a  woman  six  years  older  than  he.  They  travelled  to  Europe  for  their  wedding  trip.  I  had  a  temporary  job  as  an  interpreter  in  a  department  store.  When  my  father-in-law  saw  me  in  a  neat  suit,  with  his  name,  HIGGINS,  fastened  to  my  jacket,  he  seemed  to  approve.  He  was  the  only  person  then  who  did  not  say  that  I  was  wasting  my  life  and  my  youth  and  ought  to  go  home.  The  new  Mrs.  Higgins  asked  to  be  taken  to  an  English-speaking  hair-  dresser,  and  there,  under  the  roaring  dryer,  she  yelled  that  Mr.  Higgins  may  not  have  been  Pete's  father.  Perhaps  he  had  been,  perhaps  he  hadn't,  but  one  thing  he  was,  and  that  was  a  saint.  She  came  out  from  under  the  helmet  and  saidin  a  normal  voice,  &quot;Martin  doesn't  know  I  dye  my  hair.&quot;  I  wondered  if  he  had  always  wanted  this  short,  fox-  colored  woman.  The  new  marriage  might  for  years  have  been  in  the  ma-  quis  of  his  mind,  and  of  Mrs.  Higgins'  life.  She  may  have  known  it  as  she  sat  in  the  airport  that  day,  smiling  to  her-  self,  touching  her  unstained  gloves.  Mr.  Higgins  had  drawn  up  a  newway  of  life,  like  aclean  will  with  everyone  he  loved  cut  out.  I  was  trying  to  draw  up  a  will,  too,  but  I  was  patient,  waiting,  waiting  for  someone  to  tell  me  what  to  write.  He  spoke  of  Pete  conventionally,  in  a  sentimental  way  that  forbade  any  feeling.  Talking  that  way  was  easier  for  both  of  us.  We  were  both  responsible  for  something-for  surviving,  perhaps.  Once  he  turned  to  me  and  said  defiant,  ly,  &quot;Well,  she  and  Pete  are  together  now,  aren't  they?  And  didn't  they  leave  us  here?&quot;   "