 b"CONJOINED,  the  two  words  are  C  seen  to  be  mutually  transparent;  the  E's,  the  M's  blend-the  M's  framing  and  squaring  the  struc-  ture  lend  resonance  and  a  curious  for-  mal  weight  to  the  M  central  in  the  creature,  which  it  dominates  like  a  dark  core  winged  with  flitting  syllables.  Both  words  hum.  Both  suggest  radi-  ance,  antiquity,  mystery,  and  duty.  My  first  museum  I  would  visit  with  my  mother.  It  was  a  provincial  muse-  um,  a  stately  pride  to  the  third-class  inland  city  it  ornamented.  It  was  ap-  proached  through  paradisical  grounds  of  raked  gravel  walks,  humus-fed  plant-  ings  of  exotic  flora,  and  trees  wearing  tags,  as  if  freshly  christened  by  Adam.  The  museum's  contents  were  disturb-  ingly  various,  its  cases  stocked  with  whatever  scraps  of  foreign  civilization  had  fallen  to  it  from  the  imperious  for-  tunes  of  the  steel  and  textile  barons  of  the  province.  A  shredding  kayak  shared  a  room  with  a  rack  of  Polynesian  pad-  dles,  A  mummy,  its  skull  half  masked  in  gold,  lay  in  an  antechamber  like  one  more  of  the  open-casket  funerals  common  in  my  childhood.  Miniature  Mexican  villages  lit  up  when  a  switch  was  flicked,  and  a  pyramid  was  being  built  by  dogged  brown  dolls  who  never  pulled  their  papier-m@ch\xc3\xa9  stone  a  frac-  tion  of  an  inch.  An  infinitely  patient  Chinaman,  as  remote  from  me  as  the  resident  ofa  star,  had  carved  a  yellow  rhinoceros  horn  into  an  up-  right  crescental  city,  pagoda-tipped,  of  balconies,  vines,  and  thimble-sized  people  wearing  microscopic  expressions  of  pain.  This  was  downstairs.  Upstairs,  up  a  double  flight  of  marble  climaxed  by  a  green  fountain  splashing  greenly,  the  works  of  art  were  displayed.  Upstairs,  every  fall,  the  county  amateur  artists  exhibited  four  hundred  watercolors  of  peonies  and  stone  barns.  The  rest  of  the  year,  sombrely  professional  oils  of  rotting,  tangled  woodland  had  the  walls  to  themselves,  sharing  the  great  cool  rooms  with  cases  of  [REDACTED]  silver,  chests  decorated  with  hearts,  tulips,  and  bleeding  pelicans  by  Mennonite  folk  artists,  thick  aqua  glassware  left  bubbled  by  the  blowing  process,  quaint  quilts,  and  strange  small  statues.  Strange  per-  haps  only  in  the  impression  they  made  on  me.  They  were  bronze  statuettes,  ran-  domly  burnished  here  and  there  as  if  by  a  caressing  hand,  of  nudes  or  groups  of  nudes.  The  excuse  for  nudity  varied;  some  of  the  figures  were  American  In-  dians,  some  were  mythical  Greeks.  One  lady,  wearing  a  refined,  aloof  expres-  sion,  was  having  her  clothes  torn  from  her  by  asquat  man  with  horns  and  hairy  hooved  legs  hinged  the  wrong  way.  Another  statue  bodied  forth  two  naked  boys  wrestling.  Another  was  of  an  Indian,  dressed  in  onlya  knife  belt,  sitting  astride  a  horse  bareback,  his  chin  bowed  to  his  chest  in  sorrow,  his  exquisitely  toed  feet  hanging  down  both  hard  and  limp,  begging  to  be  touched.  I  think  it  was  the  smallness  ofthese  fig-  ures  that  carried  them  so  penetratingly  into  my  mind.  Each,  if  it  could  have  been  released  into  life,  would  have  stood  about  twenty  inches  high  and  weighed  in  my  arms  perhaps  as  much  as  a  cat.  I  itched  to  finger  them,  to  inter-  act  with  them,  to  insert  myself  into  their  mysterious  silent  world  of  strenuous  contention-their  bulged  tendons  bur-  nished,  their  hushed  violence  detailed  down  to  the  fingernails.  They  were  in  their  smallness  like  secret  thoughts  of  mine  projected  into  dimension  and  per-  manence,  and  they  returned  to  me  as  a  response  that  carried  strangely  into  parts  of  my  body.  I  felt  myself  a  furtive  ani-  mal  stirring  in  the  shadow  of  my  mother.  My  mother:  like  the  museum,  she  filled  her  category.  I  knew  no  other,  and  accepted  her  as  the  index,  inclusive  and  definitive,  of  women.  Now  I  see  that  shetoo  was  provincial,  containing  much  that  was  beautiful,  but  somewhat  jumbled,  and  distorted  by  great  gaps.  She  was  an  unsearchable  mix-  tureof  knowledge  and  igno-  rance,  openness  and  reserve;  though  she  took  me  many  Sundays  to  the  museum,  I  do  not  remember  our  discussing  anything  in  it  except  once  when,  noticing  how  the  small  statues  fascinated  me,  she  said,  &quot;Billy,  they  seem  such  unkep-  py  little  people.&quot;  In  her  glanc-  ing  way  she  had  hit  something  terribly  true.  The  defeated  Indian  was  not  alone  in  melancholy;  all  the  statuettes,  as  they  engaged  in  the  struggles  or  frolics  that  gave  each  group  the  me-  tallic  unity  of  a  single  casting,  seemed  caught  in  a  tarnished  fate  from  which  I  yearned  to  rescue  them.  I  wanted  to  touch  them  to  comfort  them,  yet  I  held  my  hand  back,  afraidof  break-  ing  the  seal  on  their  sullen,  furious  un-  derworld.  My  mood  of  dread  in  those  high  cool  galleries  condensed  upon  the  small  statues  but  did  not  emanate  from  them;  it  seemed  to  originate  above  and  behind  me,  as  if  from  another  living  person  in  the  room.  Often  my  mother,  wordlessly  browsing  by  the  wall  on  the  paintings  of  woods  and  shaggy  meadows,  was  the  only  other  person  in  the  room.  Who  she  was  was  a  mystery  so  deep  it  never  formed  even  into  a  question.  She  had  descended  to  me  from  thin  clouds  of  time,  enveloped  me,and  set  me  moving  toward  an  unseen  goal  with  a  vague  expectation  that  in  the  begin-  ning  was  more  hers  than  mine.  She  was  not  content.  I  felt  that  the  motion  which  brought  us  again  and  again  to  the  museum  was  an  agitated  one,  that  she  was  pointing  me  through  these  corridors  toward  a  radiant  place  she  had  despaired  of  reaching.  The  foun-  tain  at  the  head  of  the  stairs  splashed  unseen;  my  mother's  footsteps  rustled  and  she  drew  me  into  another  room,  where  a  caseof  silver  stood  aflame  with  reflections  like  the  mouth  of  a  dragon  of  beauty.  She  let  me  go  for-  ward  to  meet  it  alone.  I  was  her  son  and  the  center  of  her  expectations.  I  dutifully  absorbed  thelight-struck  ter-  ror  of  the  hushed  high  chambers,  and  went  through  each  doorway  witha  kind  of  timid  rapacity.  This  museum,  my  first,  I  associate  with  another,  less  ghostly  hunt;  for  this  was  one  of  the  places-others  being  the  telephone  company,  the  pretzel  factory,  and  the  county  fair-where  schoolchil-  dren  were  taken  on  educational  expedi-  tions.  I  would  usually  be  toward  the  end  of  the  line,  among  the  unpaired  stragglers,  and  up  front,  in  the  loud  nucleus  of  leaders,  the  freckled  girl  I  had  decided  I  loved.  The  de-  cision,  perhaps,  was  as  much  my  mother's  as  mine-the  girl  lived  in  our  neighborhood,  one  of  a  pack  of  sisters,  and  from  the  time  she  could  walk  past  our  front  hedge  my  mother  had  taken  one  of  her  quixotic  fancies  to  her.  She  spoke  admiringly  of  her  &quot;spirit;&quot;  this  admiration  surprised  me,  for  the  girl  was  whatwas  known  locally  as  &quot;bold,&quot;  and  as  she  grew  older  fell  in  with  a  crowd  of  children  whose  doings  would  certainly  have  struck  my  mother  as  &quot;unhappy.&quot;  My  mother  always  invited  her  to  my  birthday  parties,  where  she,  misplaced  but  rapidly  forgiving  the  situation,  animated  for  a  few  dazzling  hours  my  circle  of  shadowy-faced,  shel-  tered  friends.  When  I  try  to  picture  my  school  days,  I  seem  to  be  embedded  among  boiling  clouds  straining  to  catcha  glimpse  of  her,  or  trapped  in  a  movie  theatre  behind  a  row  of  huge  heads  while  fragmented  arcs  of  the  screen  confusingly  flicker.  The  alphabet  sepa-  rated  us;  she  sat  near  the  front  of  the  " b"classroom  and  I,  William  Young,  toward  the  rear.  Where  the  alphabet  no  longer  obtained,  other  systems  of  distinction  intervened.  In  the  museum,  a  ruthless  law  propelled  her  forward  to  gather  with  the  other  bold  spirits,  titter-  ing,  around  the  defenseless  little  statues  while  I  hung  back,  on  the  edge  of  the  fountain,  envious,  angry,  and  brimming  with  things  to  say.  I  never  said  them.  It  seemed  a  simple  matter  of  position;  I  was  never  in  a  position  to  declare,  let  alone  effect,  my  love.  No  distinction  cuts  as  deep  as  the  one  between  the  worshipped  and  the  worshipping.  I  am  condemned  by  nature  to  be  dutiful  and  reverent.  I  WAS  first  struck  by  the  girl  who  was  to  become  my  wife  when  she  was  standing  at  the  top  of  some  stone  museum  steps  that  I  was  climbing.  Though  it  was  bitterly  cold,  with  crusts  of  snow  packed  into  the  stone,  she  wore  threadbare  sneakers  from  which  her  lit-  tle  toes  stuck  out,  and  she  was  smoking.  Awesome  sheets  of  smoke  and  frozen  vapor  flew  from  her  mouth  and  she  seemed,  posed  against  a  fluted  pilaster,  a  white-faced  priestess  immolating  her-     self  in  the  worship  of  tobacco.  &quot;Aren't  your  feet  cold?&quot;  I  asked  her.  &quot;A  little.  I  don't  mind  it.&quot;  &quot;A  stoic.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  I'm  a  masochist.&quot;  &quot;Who  isn't?&quot;  She  seemed  to  think  this  a  curious  re-  mark,  and  said  nothing.  I  lit  a  cigarette,  though  inhaling  the  raw  air  rasped  my  throat,  and  asked  her,  &quot;Aren't  you  in  Medieval  Art?  You  sit  near  the  front.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Do  you  sit  in  the  back?&quot;  &quot;I  feel  I  should.  I'm  a  history  ma-  jor.&quot;  &quot;This  is  your  first  fine-arts  course?&quot;  &quot;Yeah.  It  met  at  a  good  hour-late  enough  for  a  late  breakfast  and  early  enough  for  an  early  lunch.  I'm  trying  to  have  a  sophomore  slump.&quot;  -  &quot;Are  you  succeeding?&quot;  &quot;Not  really.  When  the  chips  are  down,  I  tend  to  grind.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  like  Medieval  Art?&quot;  &quot;I  love  it.  It'slike  going  to  a  movie  in  the  morning,  which  is  my  idea  of  sin.&quot;  &quot;You  have  funny  ideas.&quot;  &quot;No.  They're  very  conventional.  It  would  never  occur  to  me,  for  example,   to  stand  outside  in  the  snow  in  bare  feet.&quot;  &quot;They're  not  really  bare.&quot;  Nevertheless,  I  yearned  to  touch  them,  to  comfort  them.  There  was  in  this  girl,  this  pale  creature  of  the  college  museum,  a  withdrawing  that  drew  me  forward.  I  felt  in  her  an  innocent  sad  blankness  where  I  must  stamp  my  name.  I  pursued  her  through  the  mu-  seum.  It  was,  as  museums  go,  rather  intimate.  Architectur-  ally,  it  was  radiantly  hollow,  being  built  around  a  skylight,  roofed  replica  of  a  sixteenth-  century  Italian  courtyard.  At  the  four  corners  of  the  flag-  stone  courtyard  floor,  four  great  gray  terra-cotta  statues  of  the  seasons  stood.  Bigger  than  life,  they  were  French,  and  reduced  the  four  epic  pas-  sages  of  the  year  to  four  charming  aristocrats,  two  male  and  two  female,  who  had  cho-  sen  to  attend  a  costume  ball  piquantly  attired  in  grapes  and  ribbons.  I  remember  that  Spring  wore  a  floppy  hat  and  carried  a  basket  of  rigid  flow-  ers.  The  stairways  and  galler-  ies  that  enabled  the  museum  to  communicate  with  itself  around  the  courtyard  were  dis-  tinctly  medieval  in  feeling,  and  the  vagaries  of  benefaction  had  left  the  museum's  medieval  and  Oriental  collections  disproportionately  strong,  though  a  worthy  attempt  had  been  made  to  piece  together  the  history  of  art  since  the  Renaissance  with  a  painting  or  at  least  a  drawing  by  each  master.  But  the  rooms  that  contained  these  later  works-including  some  C\xc3\xa9zannes  and  Renoirs  that,  because  they  were  rarely  reproduced  in  art  books,  had  the  secret  sweetness  of  flowers  in  a  forest-were  off  the  route  ofthe  course  we  were  both  taking,  so  my  courtship  primarily  led  down  stone  corridors,  past  Roman-  esque  capitals,  through  low  stone  archways  giving  on  gilded  altar  panels.  I  remember  stalking  ber  around  a  capital  from  Avignon;  it  illustrated  Samson  and  his  deeds.  On  one  side  he  was  bearing  off  the  gates  of  Gaza,  while  around  the  corner  his  massive  head  was  lying  aswoon  in  Delilah's  lap  as  she  clumsily  sawed  his  hair.  The  class  had  been  assigned  a  paper  on  this  capital,  and  as  I  rehearsed  my  interpretation,  elaborately  linear  and  accompanied  by  many  agitated  indications  of  my  hands,  the  girl  said  thoughtfully,  &quot;You  see  aw-  fully  much  in  it,  don't  you?&quot;  " b"My  hands  froze  and  crept  back,  em-  barrassed;  the  terminology  of  fine-arts  analysis  was  new  to  me,  and  in  fact  I  did  doubt  that  an  illiterate  carver  of  semi-barbaric  Europe  could  havebeen  as  aesthetically  ingenious  as  I  was.  &quot;What  do  you  see  in  it?&quot;  I  asked  in  self-defense.  &quot;Not  very  much,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  won-  der  why  they  assigned  it.  It's  not  that  lovely.  I  think  the  Cluny  ones  are  much  nicer.&quot;  Itthrilled  me  to  hear  her  speak  with  such  careless  authority.  She  was  a  fine-  arts  major,  and  there  was  a  sense  in  which  she  contained  the  museum,  had  mastered  all  the  priceless  and  timeless  things  that  would  become,  in  my  pos-  sessing  her,  mine  as  well.  She  had  first  appeared  to  me  as  someone  guarding  the  gates.  Once  I  accompanied  her  into  [REDACTED],  to  the  museum  there,  to  study,  in  con-  nection  with  another  course  she  was  taking,  an  ancient  Attic  sphinx.  This  she  liked,  though  it  was  just  a  headless  winged  body  of  whitemarble,  very  sim-  ple,  sitting  stiffly  on  its  haunches,  its  broad  breast  glowing  under  the  nicks  of  stylized  feathers.  She  showed  me  the  S-curve  of  its  body,  repeated  in  the  tail  and  again,  presumably,  in  the  vanished  head.  &quot;It's  a  very  proud  little  statue,  isn't  it?&quot;  I  ventured,  seeking  to  join  her  in  her  little  careless  heaven  of  appreciation.  Again,  I  seemed  stones  shone  as  if  wet  and  Printemps  in  her  wide  hat  was  baroquely  foreshort-  ened.  An  apprehension  of  height  seized  me;  she  seemed  posed  on  the  edge  of  a  fall.  I  heard  the  volume  of  emptiness  call-  ing  to  ber,  calling  her  away  fromme,  so  full  of  talk.  There  was  in  her  something  mute  and  remote  which  spoke  only  once,  once  when,  after  our  lying  side  by  side  an  entire  evening,  she  told  me  calm-  ly,  &quot;You  know  I  don't  love  you  yet.&quot;  I  took  this  as  a  challenge,  though  it  may  have  been  meant  asa  release.  I  carried  the  chase  through  exams  (we  both  got  A-minuses)  and  into  another  course,  a  spring-term  course  called,  sim-  ply,  Prints.  My  mother,  surprisingly,  wrote  warning  me  thatI  mustn't  spread  myself  too  thin-she  thought  now  that  that  had  been  her  mistake  at  college.  I  was  offended,  forI  thought  that  with-  out  my  telling  her  anything  she  would  know  I  was  in  the  process  of  capturing  the  very  gatekeeper  of  the  temple  of  learning  that  must  be  the  radiant  place  she  had  pointed  me  toward  so  long  ago.  The  absence  of  her  blessing  seemed  a  tacit  curse.  HERE  I  must  quickly  insert,  like  a  thin  keystone,  an  imaginary  woman  I  found  in  a  faraway  museum.  It  was  another  university  museum,  an-  cient  and  sprawling  and  resolutely  mas-  MN&quot;.  we  to  have  said  something  curi-  lige  M2\xe2\x80\x9c  n  ous.  &quot;I  love  it&quot;  was  all  she  replied,  with  a  dent  of  stub-  bornness  in  her  mouth  and  an  inviting  blankness  in  her  eyes.  Outside,  the  weather  was  winter,  the  trees  medieval  presences  arching  gray  through  gray.  We  walked  and  walked,  and  for  a  time  the  only  shelter  we  shared  was  the  museum.  My  court-  ship  progressed;  we  talked  solemnly  ;  the  childhood  I  had  spent  in  such  angry  silence  and  timid  foreboding  had  left  me  with  much  tosay.  She  could  listen;  she  was  like  a  room  of  vases  one  enters  to  find  his  sense  of  himself  abruptly  sharpened  by  a  tranquil,  vague  expectancy  in  the  air.  I  see  her  sitting  on  the  broad  cold  balustrade  that  at  second-story  height  ran  around  the  courtyard.  Beyond  her  head,  tipped  like  that  of  a  listening  Virgin  on  a  late  Gothic  porch,  the  flag-     bo  culine,  full  of  battered  weapons  of  war  and  unearthed  agricultural  tools  and  dull  maps  of  diggings.  All  its  contents  seemed  to  need  a  dusting  and  a  tasteful  rearrangement  by  a  female  hand.  But  upstairs,  in  an  out-of-the-way  chamber,  under  a  case  of  brilliantly  polished  glass,  I  one  day  discovered  a  smooth  statuette  of  a  nude  asleep  on  a  mattress.  She  was  adainty  white  dream,an  eighteenth-  century  fancy;  only  that  century  would  have  thought  to  render  a  mattress  in  marble.  Not  that  every  stitch  and  seam  was  given  the  dignity  of  stone;  but  the  corners  were  rounded,  the  buttoned  squares  of  plumpness  shown,  and  the  creasesof  &quot;give&quot;  lovingly  sculpted.  In  short,  it  was  clear  that  the  woman  was  comfortable,  and  not  posed  onan  arbi-  trary  slab,  or  slaughtered  on  an  altar.  She  was  asleep,  not  dead;  the  delicate  aroma  of  her  slumber  seemed  to  rise  through  the  glass.  She  was  the  size  of  the  small  straining  figures  that  had  fas-  cinated  my  childhood,  and,  as  with  them,  smallness  intensified  sensual  con-  tent.  As  I  stood  gazing  into  the  eternal  privacy  of  her  sleep-her  one  hand  resting  palm  up  beside  her  averted  head,  one  knee  lifted  in  a  light  sugges-  tionof  restlessness-I  was  disturbed  by  dread  and  a  premonition  of  loss.  Why?  Was  not  my  wife  also  fair,  and  finely  formed,  and  mute?  Perhaps  it  was  the  mattress  that  brought  this  ideal  other  woman  so  close;  it  was  a  raft  on  which  she  had  floated  out  of  that  inac-  cessible  past  which  secludes  most  nudes  from  our  de-  sire  and  brought  her,  small  and  intangible  as  a  thought,  ashore  on  the  island  of  my  bounded  present.  We  seemed  about  to  release  each  other  from  twin  enchantments.  Was  not  my  huge  face  the  oppressive  dream  that  was  making  her  stir?  And  was  not  I,  out  of  all  the  thousands  who  had  visited  this  museum,  the  first  to  find  her  here  asleep?  What  we  seek  in  mu-  seums  is  the  opposite  of  what  we  seek  in  churches-the  consoling  sense  of  previous  visitation.  In  museums,  rath-  er,  we  seek  the  untouched,  the  never-before-discovered;  and  it  is  their  final  unsearch-  ability  that  leads  us  to  hope,  and  return.  TWO  more,  two  more  of  each,  each  nameless.  None  have  names.  Museums  are  in  the  end  nameless  and  " b"continuous;  we  turn  a  corner  in  the  Louvre  and  meet  the  head  of  a  sphinx  whose  body  is  displayed  in  [REDACTED].  So,  too,  the  women  were  broken  ares  of  one  curve.  She  was  the  friend  of  a  friend,  and  she  and  I,  having  had  lunch  with  the  mutual  friend,  bade  him  goodbye  and,  both  being  loose  in  New  York  for  the  afternoon,  went  to  a  museum  together.  It  was  a  new  one,  recently  completed  after  the  plan  of  a  recently  dead  Ameri-  can  wizard.  It  was  shaped  like  a  trun-  cated  top  and  its  floor  was  a  continuous  spiral  around  an  overweening  core  of  empty  vertical  space.  From  the  leaning,  shining  walls  immense  rectangles  of  torn  and  spattered  canvas  projected  on  thin  arms  of  bent  pipe.  Menacing  mag-  nifications  of  texturalaccidents,  they  needed  to  be  viewed  at  a  distance  great-  er  than  the  architecture  afforded.  The  floor  width  was  limited  by  a  rather  slender  andlow  concrete  guard  wall  that  more  invited  than  discouraged  a  plunge  into  the  cathedralic  depths  be-  low.  Too  reverent  to  scoff  and  too  dizzy  to  judge,  my  unexpected  compan-  ion  and  I  dutifully  unwound  our  way  down  the  exitless  ramp,  locked  in  a  wizard's  spell.  Suddenly,  as  she  lurched  backward  from  one  especially  explosive  painting,  herhigh  heels  were  tricked  by  the  slope,  and  she  fell  against  me  and  squeezed  my  arm.  Ferocious  gumbos  splashed  on  one  side  of  us;  the  siren  chasm  called  on  the  other.  She  righted  herself  but  did  not  let  go  of  my  arm.  Pointing  my  eyes  ahead,  inhaling  the  presence  of  perfume,  feeling  like  a  cliff-  climber  whose  companion  has  panicked  on  the  sheerest  part  of  the  face,  I  ac-  commodated  my  arm  to  her  grip  and,  thus  secured,  we  carefully  descended  the  remainder  of  the  museum.  Not  until  our  feet  touched  the  safety  of  street  level  were  we  released.  Our  bodies  separated  and  did  not  touch  again.  Yet  the  spell  was  imperfectly  broken,  like  the  door  of  a  chamber  which,  once  unsealed,  can  never  be  closed  quite  tight  again.  Not  far  down  the  same  avenue  there  is  a  museum  which  was  once  a  mansion  and  still  retains  a  homelike  quality,  if  one  can  imagine  people  rich  enough  in  self-esteem  to  inhabit  walls  so  over-  ripe  with  masterpieces,  to  dine  from  tureens  by  Cellini,  and  afterward  to  seat  their  bodies  complacently  on  furni-  ture  invested  with  the  blood  of  empires.  There  once  were  people  so  self-confi-  dent,  and  on  the  day  of  my  visit  I  was  one  of  them,  for  the  woman  I  was  with  and  I  were  perfectly  in  love.  We  had  come  from  lovemaking,  and  were  to  return  to  it,  and  the  museum,  visited  between  the  evaporation  and  the  recondensation  of  desire,  was  like  a  bridge  whose  either  end  is  dissolved  in  mist-  its  suspension  miraculous,  its  purpose  re-  membered  only  by  the  murmuring  stream  running  in  the  invisible  ravine  below.  Homeless,  we  had  found  a  home  worthy  of  us.  We  seemed  hosts;  surely  we  had  walked  these  Persian  rugs  be-  fore,  appraised  this  amphora  with  an  eye  to  its  purchase,  debated  the  posi-  tion  of  this  marble-topped  table  whose  veins  foamed  like  gently  surfing  aqua-  marine.  The  woman's  sensibility  was  more  an  interior  decorator's  than  an  art  student's,  and  through  her  I  felt  furnishings  unfold  into  a  world  of  gilded  scrolls,  rubbed  stuffs,  cherished  surfaces,  painstakingly  inlaid  veneers,  varnished  cadenzas  of  line  and  curve  lovingly  carved  by  men  whose  hands  a were  haunted  by  the  memory  of  wom-  en.  Rustling  beside  me,  her  body,  which  I  had  seen  asleep  on  a  mattress,  seemed  to  wear  clothes  as  a  need-  less  luxuriance,  an  ultra-extravagance  heaped  upon  what  was  already,  like  the  museum,  both  priceless  and  free.  Room  after  room  we  entered  and  owned.  A  lingering  look,  a  shared  smile  was  enough  to  secure  our  claim.  Once  she  said,  of  a  chest  whose  panels  were  painted  with  pubescent  cherubs  after  Boucher,  that  she  didn't  find  it  terri-  bly  &quot;attractive.&quot;  The  one  word,  pro-  nounced  with  a  worried  twist  of  her  eyebrows,  delighted  me  like  the  first  polysyllable  pronounced  byan  infant  daughter.  In  this  museum  I  was  more  the  guide;  it  was  I  who  could  name  the  modes  and  deliver  the  apprecia-  tions.  Her  muteness  was  not  a  re-  serve  but  an  expectancy;  she  and  the  museum  were  perfectly  open  and  mutually  transparent.  As  we  passed  a  dark-red  tapestry,  her  bare-shouldered  summer  dress,  of  a  similar  red,  blended  with  it,  isolating  her  head  and  shoulders  like  a  bust.  The  stuffs  of  every  laden  " b"room  conspired  to  flatter  her,  to  elicit  with  tinted  reflective  shadows  the  shy  structure  of  her  face,  to  accent  with  sumptuous  textures  her  demure  skin.  My  knowledge  of  how  she  looked  asleep  gave  a  tender  nap  to  the  alert  surface  of  her  wakefulness  now.  My  woman,  fully  searched,  and  my  muse-  um,  fully  possessed;  for  this  translucent  interval-like  the  instant  of  translu-  cence  that  shows  in  a  wave  between  its  peaking  and  its  curling  under-I  had  come  to  the  limits  of  unsearchability.  From  this  beautiful  boundary  I  could  imagine  no  retreat.  HE  last  time  I  saw  this  woman  was  in  another  museum,  where  she  had  taken  a  job.  I  found  her  in  a  small  room  lined  with  pale  books  and  journals,  and  her  face  as  it  looked  up  in  surprise  was  also  pale.  She  took  me  into  the  corridors  and  showed  me  the  furniture  it  was  her  job  to  catalogue.  When  we  had  reached  the  last  room  of  her  special  province,  and  her  gay,  rather  matter-of-fact  lecture  had  ended,  she  asked  me,  &quot;Why  have  you  come?  To  upset  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  don't  mean  to  upset  you.  I  wanted  to  see  if  you're  all  right.&quot;  &quot;I'm  all  right.  Please,  William.  If  anything's  left  of  what  you  felt  for  me,  let  me  alone.  Don't  come  teasing  me.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry.  It  doesn't  feel  like  teas-  ing  to  me.&quot;  Her  chin  reddened  and  the  rims  of  her  eyes  went  pink  as  tears  seized  her  eyes.  Our  bodies  ached  to  comfort  each  other,  but  at  any  moment  someone-a  profes-  sor,  a  nun-might  wander  into  the  room.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;we  really  had  it.&quot;  A  sob  bowed  her  head  and  re-  bounded  off  the  polished  surfaces  around  us.  &quot;I  know.  I  knowwe  did.&quot;  She  looked  up  at  me,  the  anger  of  her  eyes  blurred.  &quot;Then  why-?&quot;  I  shrugged.  &quot;Cowardice.  I've  always  been  timid.  A  sense  of  duty.  I  don't  know.&quot;  With  two  careful  swipes  of  her  fin-  gers,  as  if  she  were  sculpting  her  own  face,  she  wiped  the  tears  from  below  her  eyes.  &quot;It's  my  fault.  It's  my  fault  for  falling  in  love  with  you.  In  a  funny  way,  it  was  unfair  to  you.&quot;  &quot;Let's  walk,&quot;  I  said.  Blind  to  all  beauty,  we  walked  through  halls  of  paintings  and  statues  and  urns.  A  fountain  splashed  unseen  off  to  our  left.  Through  a  doorway  I  glimpsed,  still  proud,  its  broad  chest  still  glowing,  the  headless  sphinx.  &quot;No,  it's  my  fault,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  was  in  no  position  to  love  you.  I  didn't  know  it,  but  I  never  have  been.&quot;  Her  eyes  went  bold  and  her  freckles  leaped  up  childishly  as  she  grinned,  as  if  to  console  me.  Yet  what  she  said  was  not  consola-  tory.  &quot;Well  just  don't  do  it  to  anybody  else.&quot;  &quot;Lady,  there  is  nobody  else.  You  have  no  idea,  how  beautiful  you  are.&quot;  'You  made  me  believe  it  at  the  time.  I'm  grateful  for  that.&quot;  &quot;And  for  nothing  else?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  for  lots  of  things,  really.  You  got  me  into  the  museum.  It's  fun.&quot;  &quot;You  came  here  to  please  [REDACTED];  \xe2\x80\x9cYES.&quot;  &quot;God,  it's  terrible  to  love  what  you  can't  have.  Maybe  that's  why  you  love  it.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don't  think  so.  I  think  that's  the  way  you  work.  But  not  everybody  works  that  way.&quot;  &quot;Well,  maybe  one  of  those  others  will  find  you  now.&quot;  &quot;No.  You  were  it.  You  saw  some-  thing  in  me  nobody  else  ever  saw.  I  didn't  know  it  was  there  myself.  Now  go  away,  unless  you  want  to  see  me  cry  some  more.&quot;  We  parted  and  I  descended  marble  stairs.  Before  pushing  through  the  re-  volving  doors,  I  looked  back,  and  it  came  to  me  that  nothing  about  mu-  seums  is  as  splendid  as  their  entrances  the  sudden  vault,  the  shapely  cornices,  the  motionless  uniformed  guard  like  a  wittily  disguised  archangel,  the  broad  stairs  leading  upward  into  heaven  knows  what  mansions  of  expectantly  hushed  treasure.  And  it  appeared  to  me  that  now  I  was  condemned,  in  my  search  for  the  radiance  that  had  faded  behind  me,  to  enter  more  and  more  museums,  and  be  a  little  less  exalted  by  each  new  entrance,  and  a  little  more  quickly  disappointed  in  the  famil-  iar  contents  beyond. "