 b" INTRODUCTION  By  CAVENDISH  WOOLTON  Ir  Gerald  Woolton,&quot;  distinctly  a  man  of  his  time  and  place,&quot;  penned  his  diaries-generally  in  the  mornings,  between  rising&quot;  and  tub-  bing*-throughout  his  long  and  dis-  tinguished  career  in  thediffering  yet  tangential  worlds  of  people,  journalism,  diplomacy,  people,  literary  salons,  poli-  tics,  people,  and  club  life.  If  anyone  was  worth  knowing,  Sir  Gerald  Wool-  ton  knew  him.  One  can  put  it  down  as  a  rule  of  thumb  that  Sir  Gerald  Wool-  ton  did  not  know  people  who  were  not  worth  knowing.  His  standard  was  a  relatively  simple  one:  if  Sir  Gerald  Woolton  knew  someone,  that  person  was  worth  knowing.  To  people  worth  knowing,  he  was  generous,  kindly,  warmhearted,  benevolent,  tender,  un-  derstanding,  sympathetic,  and  friendly.  His  attitude  towards  the  remainder  speaks  for  itself.  In  all,  Sir  Gerald  Woolton  penned  twelve  million  six  hundred  thousand  two  hundred  and  forty-six  words  in  his  diaries,  and  I  have  edited  (without  reference  to  spe-  cific  years)  what  I  consider  to  be  a  rep-  resentative  selection  from  the  crowded  times.  On  with  it!  Diary  23rp  FEBRUARY  To  the  Chop  and  Chowder  for  lunch.  Winnie&quot;  there,  also  Neville,&quot;  Lord  Nelson,&quot;  G.  M.  Trevelyan,  Doo-  dles  Baltic.  Doodles  just  back  from  Austria,  convinced  that  Pfernig  is  en-  tirely  sincere,  if  mad,  in  his  determi-  nation  to  proceed  with  the  Aufgrab.  Winnie,  inexplicably  silent,  concen-  trated  on  his  mutton  chop.  G.  M.  Trevelyan  eloquent,  brimming  with  historical  analogies,  something  about  1My  uncle,  Sir  Gerald  Woolton,  shall  be  referred  to  throughout  the  Footnotes  as  GW,  a  purely  arbitrary  decision  on  my  part.  In  the  Letters,  NG  refers  to  his  old  nanny,  Nell  Grit,  who  lived  to  be  ninety-eight  and  who  played  it;  abiding  and  comforting  role  in  his  emotional  ife.  2The  Diaries  cover  roughly  the  second  quarter  ofthe  turbulent  twentieth  century,  give  a  decade,  take  a  decade,  when  GW,  an  Eniglishman\xe2\x80\x98  had  reached  his  middle  years.  86:32.  46:31.  The  drawbridge  at  Lower  Woolton  is  often  washed  out.  Winston  S.  Churchill,  British  statesman  and  descendant  of  the  Duke  of  Marlborough  Winston  Churchill's  mother  was  an  Ameri-  can-'&quot;a  fact,&quot;  as  GW  often  remarked,  &quot;over  which  he  had  little  or  no  control.&quot;  Chamberlain,  British  statesman  and  prominent  sonof  a  prominent  father,  whose  grandfather  is  said  to  have  misplaced  his  um-  brella  at  the  Battle  of  Waterloo.  {}{Prominent  sea  dog.  8Known  for  his  mauve  landscapes,  with  bulldog  faces  peering  from  the  lower-left  cor-  ner.  They  are  not  to  be  found  in  the  Tate.  the  Trojans,  the  point  of  which  was  lost  in  the  grinding  noises  made  by  Neville's  teeth.  Too  bad,  but  irretriev-  able.  Lord  Nelson  spoke  with  convic-  tion  of  sea  power.  I  walked  home  slow-  ly  through  Green  Park,  pondering  on  success  and  failure  in  life.  Quite  pleased  with  myself  today.  But  it  will  pass.  Drary  6tna  Marcu  At  Hollyhocks.\xc2\xae  Gardens  radiant,  but  cannot  keep  my  mind  off  the  Aufgrab,  should  there  be  one.  There  is  far  too  much  wickedness  in  the  world,  it  would  seem.  Following  break-  fast,  I  shall  retire  to  study  to  work  on  novel,  novella,  lectures,  reviews,  bi-  ography,  and  address  to  be  delivered  to  All-Bowdoins'*&quot;  Sunday  night.  I  am  such  a  bundle  of  marmalade!  Perhaps  Crunchy  was  right  when  he  said  years  ago,  at  lunch  at  the  Hip  and  Thigh,  &quot;You  are  an  exalted  water  bug,  skip-  ping  about,  never  settling.&quot;  Could  it  be  true?  All  in  all,  a  glorious  year  so  far,  and  I  have  never  been  happier,  except  when  miserable.  GW  to  NG  7rH  AprIL  I  think  of  you  all  the  time  and  shudder  to  ponder  what  life  would  have  been  like  without  you.  I  shudder.  NG  to  GW  Apri.  Always  dry  behind  the  ears  after  tubbing.  D1ary  18tn  Apri  Standing  for  Parliament  for  West  Grind.  A  loathsome  spot,  filled  with  workingmen.  Much  soul-searching  on  my  part.  Lady  Braumont-Greaves&quot;  says  I  simply  must,  that  I  owe  it  not  only  to  myself  but  to  my  country.  Strong  words.  Visited  West  Grind  over  week-end,  and  got  hopelessly  lost  on  way  down.  Many  wrong  turns,  de-  tours,  culs-de-sac,  and  so  on.  Mingled  with  people,  a  searing  experience.  I  am  devoted  to  beautiful  and  lovely  things,  both  in  nature  and  in  art,  and  would  do  much  to  overcome  my  sense  of  in-  tense  loathing  for  the  unattractive,  in  an-  imals,  people,  and  plants.  I  know  it  to  GW's  country  place  at  Bleemes-on-Bleemes.  Hollyhocks  was  second  only  to  NellGrit  in  the  affections  of  GW.  10An  arcane  offshoot  of  the  Society  of  Good  Chaps.  11Prominent  widow  of  Lord  Braumont-  Greaves,  who  lost  his  life,  inexplicably,  while  serving  as  Falconer  to  H.R.H.  George  V.  be  a  failing,  but  I  treasure  it.  Dinner  at  Grouse-Neck-a  glittering  assem-  blage:  Great  Farr,&quot;  Lesser  Farr,*  Winnie,  Neville,  Tony,'*  Lord  and  Lady  Muff,&quot;  young  B.  S.  Blinden,&quot;&quot;  and  an  assortment  of  dull,  apathetic  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  Why  are  556e6974656420537461746573ns  so  crude,  and  their  eyes  so  watery  and  lacklustre?  A  Mrs.  X,  from  Eltoona,&quot;  [REDACTED],  totally  incapable  of  ma-  nipulating  her  knife  and  fork.  Diary  23rRD  APRIL  Elected  for  West  Grind  by  two  votes.  Received  returns  in  drab  hall  with  dark  walls,  amidst  strange  people.  My  constituents.  A  very  wee  bit  of  cheering  at  the  conclusion  of  the  count-  ing,  and  the  crowd  broke  up  within  minutes  and  headed  for  their  cottages,  or  whatever.  Diary  ITH  May  Splendid  lunch  in  the  Commons  din-  ing  room.  Brilliant  conversation  throughout.  How  I  love  these  lunch-  eons  amidst  all  these  clever  lads,  such  a  considerable  contrast,  alas,  to  the  elec-  torate,  Will  there  be  war?  Grebinger'\xc2\xae  says  no.  He  could  be  right.  He  could  be  wrong.  Savoured  the  savoury.  Diary  1274  SEerEmBER  In  [REDACTED],  lecturing  on  &quot;Life  in  the  Cotswolds&quot;  and  &quot;Elegance:  The  Vanished  Art,&quot;  two  subjects  of  suffi-  cient  simplicity  to  grip  the  attention  of  the  heathen.  I  am  to  be  shipped  about  amongst  eighteen  cities,  like  a  burlap  bag,  delivering  one  lecture  one  night,  another  the  next.&quot;&quot;  Crass  commercial-  ism,I  suppose,  but  someone  must  keep  the  eternal  flame  alive.  So  far,  at  public  lunches  where  I  have  been  Guest  of  Honour  the  same  fare  is  presented:  chicken  a  la  King,&quot;&quot;  often  in  patty  shells;  bright-green  peas;  and  ice  cream.  I  think  this  has  been  remarked  upon  before  by  other  visiting  lecturers,  but  I  am  not  entirely  certain.  My  evening  meals  have  been  partaken  of  in  the  home  of  the  richest  person  in  12Kenneth  Courtney  Beardsley  Farr,  promi-  nent  M.F.H.  to  HR.H.  George  V.  Something  of  an  eccentric,  he  was  noted  for  standing  on  his  head  throughout  dinner.  13His  Scotch  terrier,  and  constant  com-  panion.  14His  Scotch  terrier,  and  constant  com-  panion  to  Lesser  Farr.  150f  the  prominent  toffee  family.  16The  poet,  then  sixty-two,  and,  as  GW  re-  peatedly  said,  &quot;full,  so  full,  of  promise.&quot;  17GW  was  in  error  here.  Mrs.  X  came  from  Scrunton.  18Hans  Grebinger,  confidant  of  Lesser  Farr.  19GW  went,  in  his  words,  &quot;from  the  sun-  kissed  shores  of  [REDACTED]  to  the  rockbound  coast  of  California.&quot;  20Edward  VII.  " b"whatever  township  I  happen  to  be.  By  and  large,  the  rich  give  me  pleasure,  but  not  here.  The  556e6974656420537461746573n  hostess  is  intensely  interested  in  the  art  treasures  of  the  Old  World,  and  I  feel  it  incum-  bent  upon  myself  to  enlighten  them,  for  example,  upon  such  matters  as  the  Gio-  conda  Smile.&quot;  I  have  met  no  Ameri-  can  Indians,  who  live,  I  am  told,in  quarries,  Diary  6tHx  OctomEr  Still  in  [REDACTED].  I  keep  asking  my-  self,  What  is  Man?  No  ready  answer,  and  no  reason  to  expect  one  in  anation  devoid  of  sparkling  give-and-take  and  brittle  bons  mots.  Much  deep-dish  apple  pie  in  the  provincial  townships,  and  ob-  ligatory  ice  in  drinks.  A  cardinal  axiom  of  my  upbringing  is  never  to  hurt  the  feelings  ofa  host,  especially  in  his  pres-  ence.  Little  sense  of  international  ten-  sion  here.  I  can  get  nobody  interested  21An  oblique  reference  to  the  Mona  Lisa.  in  the  Schnallberger  Crisis.  Poor,  dear  things,  they  dream  of  their  wheat  fields  and  their  corncobs.  I  do  wish  I  could  remember  the  names  of  some  of  the  people  I  have  met.  But  no  matter.  Diary  4TtH  NovEMBER  Hollyhocks.  Home  again'!  Stopped  in  [REDACTED],  for  delightful  salon  evening  at  Lady  Falmouth-Cowpers'.  Not  a  soul  missing:  Cranshaw,  Winnie,  Lord  Piedmont,  Lord  and  Lady  Graze,  the  Viscount,&quot;  the  Maharaja  of  Bradni-  pah.  At  midnight,  My  Sovereign&quot;  arrived,  elegantly  turned  out  in  sandals,  kilt,  and  naval  tunic,  complete  with  dazzling  ribands.  The  ladies  curtsied,  the  men  fell  prone  to  the  floor-an  ancient  custom,  and  one  that  I  take  221  have  searched  hundreds  of  records  and  cannot  locate  the  precise  viscount.  Gildsley  was  known  to  have  been  in  [REDACTED]  that  eve-  ning  and  he  must  have  dined  somewhere,  al-  though  he  loathed  maharajas.  28Edward  VIII.  Ah!  pride  in  perpetuating.  Lord  Piedmont  had  fallen  to  the  floor  some  five  min-  utes  before  My  Sovereign  arrived,  for  private  reasons.  My  Sovereign,  ever  so  approachable,  said  to  me,  &quot;We  like  your  stuff.&quot;  Kraundorf,  of  the  Nether-  lands  Foreign  Office,  remarked  crypti-  cally,  &quot;Auch!&quot;  Did  he  mean  war?  If  so,  small  credit  to  our  national  pride.  Barely  any  good  Yorkshire  pudding  to  be  found  anywhere.  GW  to  NG  29tn  DrcEmBER  I  live  in  the  great  bright  world,  and  mingle  continuously  with  the  clever  ones,  and  at  year's  end  I  reflect  upon  matters  both  weighty  and  small,  and  my  most  abiding  joy  derives  from  you,  my  old  Nanny.  NG  To  GW  31sr  DEcEMBER  Tidy  up  the  nursery!  "