 b"NEAT  in  his  person,  and  just  N  as  neat  the  room  he  left  behind  him,  Dr.  Ernst  fastened  the  padlock  on  his  door  and  dropped  the  key  into  his  top  pocket.  The  padlock-  supplied  by  the  authoritiese-was  huge,  and  if  someone  happened  to  be  passing  while  he  was  locking  up,  he  often  pre-  tended  that  he  had  got  his  finger  caught  in  it.  &quot;Ooh,&quot;  he  would  say,  and  wave  his  fingers  painfully  in  the  air  and  purse  his  mouth  for  a  soundless  whistle.  But  it  was  not  a  joke  he  ever  made  in  the  mornings.  In  the  mornings,  he  knew,  everyone  was  far  too  busy  to  take  any  notice  of  him,  let  alone  his  jokes.  The  apartment  block  in  which  he  had  been  fortunate  enough  to  geta  room  was  one  occupied  mainly  by  as-  sistant  editors  in  the  Publications  Divi-  sion  or  section  officers  in  the  Ministry  of  Education,  all  of  them  civil  servants  in  the  medium-income  groups,  whose  energies  in  the  morning  were  concen-  trated  on  reaching  the  office  in  time.  Since  bicycles  were  beneath  their  dig-  nity  and  none  of  them  were  rich  enough  to  possess  acar,  getting  to  the  office  meant  getting  on  a  bus,  and  it  was  this  task  ahead  that  accounted  for  the  grim,  determined  expressions  on  their  faces.  The  ladies  strode  along  purpose-  fully  in  their  saris,  all  of  them  intellec-  tuals,  graduates,  wage  earners,  eman-  cipated,  and  on  an  equal  footing  with  men-the  pride  of  modern  496e646961.  Some  of  them  grasped  short  umbrellas,  with  an  air  that  made  it  clear  that,  if  necessity  demanded,  they  would  use  them  to  sharp  effect  in  the  bus  queue.  Dr.  Ernst  had  no  office  to  go  to,  but  he  got  up  and  went  out  at  the  same  time  as  everyone  else  in  the  mornings.  He  felt  better  that  way-not  left  out  of  anything  but  part  of  a  busy  world.  Once,  for  a  short,  glorious  time,  he,  too,  had  been  an  office  worker.  He  had  helped  to  put  out  bulletins  in  the  Min-  istry  of  Information  and  Broadcasting  and  had  compiled  a  weekly  newssheet  on  the  eradication  of  household  pests.  He  had  been  very  happy,  though  of  course  he  had  not  expected  to  be  kept  long;  he  had  known  that  sooner  or  later  the  job  would  have  to  be  handed  over  to  a  genuine  496e646961n  subject,  not     an  &quot;ersatz&quot;  one,  as  he  liked  in  fun  to  call  himself.  But  it  had  been  good  while  it  lasted-not  only  the  working  in  an  office  on  regular  hours  like  every-  one  else  but  also  the  knowledge  that  on  the  first  week  of  every  month  a  suf-  ficient  salary  would  infallibly  turn  up.  He  walked  among  the  crowd  of  officegoers  toward  the  main  gate  of  the  apartment  block,  here  and  there  rais-  ing  his  panama  hat  in  a  greeting  that  was  courtly  but  at  the  same  time  unob-  trusive,  so  that  those  who  were  in  too  much  of  a  hurry  could,  with  a  good  con-  science,  pretend  they  hadn't  noticed.  One  or  two  of  the  hurrying  figures  he  looked  at  with  pleasure.  Miss  Jaya,  from  Room  No,  146-A,  for  instance-  a  valued  employee  in  the  Ministry  of  Scientific  Research  and  Cultural  Af-  fairs,  walking  slim  and  neat  and  upright  in  a  green  patterned  sari,  with  her  hair  balanced  on  her  head  in  a  shining  coil.  [REDACTED]!  thought  Dr.  Ernst  with  a  smile.  [REDACTED]  and  energy  and  confidence-the  future.  And  he  smiled  again  and  thrust  out  his  chest,  looking  after  pretty  Miss  Jaya,  and  felt  as  if  he  had  been  fired  with  an  ideal,  a  confirmation  that  life  could  be  beautiful  and  good.  &quot;Ernst!&quot;  It  was  Lily.  She  was  looking  out  of  the  window  of  her  room  with  a  woe-  begone  air.  All  the  windows  in  the  block  were  crossed  with  iron  bars,  to  keep  the  burglars  out,  and  Lily  peering  through  the  bars,  with  her  head  to  one  side  and  her  hair  drooping  sadly  over  her  eyes,  reminded  him  of  a  symbolical  painting  he  had  once  been  much  moved  by,  entitled  &quot;Humanity.&quot;  However,  he  was  not  moved  by  Lily;  he  had  seen  her  too  often,  looking  just  like  this.  &quot;Come  in  and  talk  to  me,&quot;  said  Lily  in  a  voice  as  woebegone  as  her  face.  Suppressing  a  sigh,  lingering  a  last  fond  look  on  the  disappearing  figure  of  brisk  Miss  Jaya,  he  turned  aside  and  entered  Lily's  room.  &quot;Right  in,&quot;  she  commanded  as  he  stood  hesitating  at  the  door.  He  never  liked  to  go  into  Lily's  room.  It  was  strange  how  different  it  was  from  his  own,  even  though  the  rooms  were  absolutely  identical  in  con-  struction  and  in  theirbasic  furnishings,  which  were  supplied  by  the  authorities  and  consisted  of  a  file  cupboard  for  wardrobe,  a  serviceable  wooden  bed,  and  a  dressing  table  that  was  really  only  an  office  desk  with  a  mirror  at-  tached.  Lily  had  a  vivid  taste,  and  she  had  smothered  these  bare  necessities  in  curtains,  cushions,  rugs,  hangings,  raasks,  prints-all  Oriental,  all  folk  art,  and  all  very  dirty.  Dr.  Ernst,  on  the  other  hand,  had  added  almost  nothing     " b"to  the  room  he  had  been  given;  he  really  didn't  have  anything  except  two  wooden  bears  from  [REDACTED],  which  were  meant  to  serve  as  bookends,  a  photograph  of  his  parents  in  an  oval  frame,  and  a  thirty-year-old  alarm  clock  that  still  kept  excellent  time.  But  he  was  scrupulous  about  maintaining  everything  absolutely  neat  and  clean  and  scrubbed.  He  did  this  himself  every  morning,  with  a  bucket  and  soapsuds  and  a  brush  and  a  lot  of  vigor,  his  sleeves  rolled  up  over  his  thin  arms.  In  summer,  when  there  were  dust  storms  and  everything  in  the  city  was  covered  with  thick  layers  of  dust  and  one  could  even  taste  it  between  one's  teeth  and  smell  it  up  one's  nostrils,  he  would  carefully  wipe  his  yellow  duster  over  everything  in  his  room  as  many  as  five  or  six  times  a  day.  Anything  out  of  place,  any  disorder  or  grime  anywhere  in  his  room  was  like  a  giving  in  to  that  chaos  which  had  seemed  perpetual-  ly  to  lie  in  wait  for  him  ever  since  he  started  on  his  enforced  travels,  almost  thirty  years  ago.  &quot;I  feel  so  awful,&quot;  Lily  wailed.  She  was  squatting  under  the  window  on  a  little  couch  she  had  made  out  of  old  boxes  covered  with  a  thick  hand-spun  cloth  featuring  block-printed  horses  and  riders.  &quot;There's  something  terribly  wrong  with  me.&quot;  Dr.  Ernst  managed  to  look  sympa-  thetic,  though  secretly  he  was  thinking  that  what  was  wrong  with  Lily  was  that  she  needed  a  good  serub  and  bath.  How  trim  Miss  Jaya  had  looked,  how  neat  and  smart  and  ready  for  her  work!  Lily  sagged  on  her  couch  in  a  crumpled  flowered  wrap,  her  face  too  white  and  a  bit  puffy,  and  her  hair  a  tangled,  clotted  nest.  \xc2\xab&quot;No  office  today?&quot;  asked  Dr.  Ernst.  She  looked  at  him  as  if  he  had  done  her  an  injury.  &quot;In  my  state?&quot;  she  said  in  a  robust  enough  voice.  In  his  heart,  he  condemned  her.  She  never  appreciated  how  lucky  she  was  to  have  ajob  here,  even  though  she  was  English.  She  worked  as  a  mon-  itor  in  All  496e646961  Radio-in  the  Chinese  Section,  strangely  enough-and,  in-  stead  of  being  grateful,  she  carried  on  as  if  she  were  being  exploited.  She  fre-  quently  skipped  days  and  was  always  grumbling  about  her  salary.  &quot;I  want  you  to  phone  Chinky-Linky  for  me,&quot;  she  was  saying.  &quot;Tell  him  I  won't  be  in  today,  so  he'll  have  to  do  some  work  for  once  in  his  life.  That'll  be  a  nice  change  for  him.  I'd  always  been  given  to  understand  that  the  Chi-  nese  were  an  industrious  race,  but  judging  by  Chinky-Linky-  Oh,  do  sit  down.  You're  making  me  nervous.&quot;   Dr.  Ernst  fidgeted.  &quot;I  have  to  get  going.&quot;  &quot;What  for?  You're  no  wage  slave  like  the  rest  of  us.  You  lucky  sod.  Go  on!&quot;  she  said,  pointing  an  impatient  foot  at  a  disintegrating  cane  hassock,  on  which  he  then  had  to  lower  himself  gingerly.  He  sat,  uncomfortable  and  ill  at  ease,  his  thin  knees  pressed  together,  while  she  talked.  She  had  a  rather  whining  sort  of  voice,  which  rose  and  fell;  it  was  loud  while  she  was  in  the  middle  of  her  subject,  then  sank  into  a  mumble  as  her  interest  in  it  diminished,  and  rose  again  as  she  started  on  some-  thing  new.  As  always,  she  had  plenty  to  say,  and  as  she  went  on,  her  servant  appeared  and  served  them  cups  of  cof-  fee.  He  was  a  craftyold  man  in  a  pair  of  tattered  striped  pajamas,  who  did  rather  well  by  means  of  little  commis-  sions  he  paid  himself  out  of  the  bazaar  money.  Dr.  Ernst,  always  ready  for  re-  freshments,  would  have  drunk  his  with  pleasure,  but  at  the  last  moment  no-  ticed  there  was  a  smudge  of  lipstick  on  L  the  cup,  so  he  put  it  aside;  he  was  still,  in  spite  of  his  hardships,  fastidious  in  these  matters.  And  now  Lily  had  got  onto  her  best  subject  of  all,  the  one  that  always  formed  the  climax  of  her  conversations:  her  latest  love  affair.  She  had  been  in  496e646961  for  some  three  years  now,  and  in  that  period  of  time  had  already  been  in  love  several  times.  Hers  was  a  pas-  sionate  nature,  and  indeed  it  was  pas-  sion  that  had  got  her  out  to  496e646961  in  the  first  place,  in  pursuit  of  a  handsome  young  496e646961n,  who,  whatever  promises  he  might  have  made  her  in  [REDACTED],  did  not  feel  up  to  them  once  he  had  safely  reached  home  ground.  She  had  hardly  got  over  that  disappointment  when  she  was  in  love  again,  and  from  there  she  never  looked  back,  passing  from  passion  to  passion,  each  one  more  burning  and  more  hopeless  than  the  last.  &quot;He  was  so  beastly  to  me,&quot;  she  was  complaining.  &quot;Wouldn't  speak  to  me  properly,  made  me  pay  forthe  dinner-  he's  such  a  brute.&quot;  But  when  she  said  " b"&quot;brute,&quot;  her  eyes  lit  up  and  she  leaned  forward,  smiling,  eager,  to  add,  &quot;But  so  handsome!  Isn't  he  the  handsomest,  handsomest  creature  you've  ever  seen?&quot;  She  pushed  Dr.  Ernst's  knee  quite  hard  in  her  anxiety  for  his  assent  and  confirmation.  He  couldn't  quite  remember  this  lat-  est  young  man  and  might  be  confusing  him  with  one  or  two  of  his  prede-  cessors.  But  he  said,  &quot;Terribly,  terribly  handsome,&quot;  and  smiled  at  her  with  his  perfect,  pearly  plate  of  teeth.  At  that  moment,  he  forgave  her  the  smudge  of  lipstick  on  thecoffee  cup  and  much  else  besides,  He  admired  her  perse-  verance,  her  refusal  to  compromise:  all  her  young  men  had  been  excessively  handsome  and  desirable,  and  not  one  of  them  had  even  remotely  returned  her  feelings.  They  made  her  suffer,  and  yetshe  chose  only  them,  only  these  paragons,  and  never  stooped  to  meas-  ure  her  affections  to  a  lesser  man  more  within  her  range.  Only  the  best  was  good  enough  for  her,  and  she  would  go  on  desiring  it,  though  doomed  forever  to  consume  herself  in  her  own  flame.  &quot;You  should  see  him  with  his  clothes  off,&quot;  she  told  him  indelicately.  &quot;Like  a  god.  Such  shoulders,  so  broad,  and  hips  you  don't  know  how  slender,  like  a  boy's.  Even  to  think  of  it-ooh,  I  can't  bear  it!&quot;  She  moaned  with  joy  and  hugged  herself  tight,  and  her  wrap  fell  apart,  revealing  her  legs,  which  were  pale  and  plump,  with  the  flesh  shaking  like  a  dewlap  from  the  under-  side  of  the  thighs.  How  old  was  she  now?  Thirty?  Thirty-two?  Still  young  by  his  stand-  ards,  but  he  knew  that  she  would  never  marry,  just  as  he  never  had.  For  he,  too,  had  been  like  her-had  loved  and  desired  only  what  was  infinitely  beyond  him.  He  had  always  wanted  to  marry  and  had  the  most  superbly  imaginative  vision  of  the  bliss  that  would  be  waiting  for  him  in  that  state,  but  his  one  condi-  tion  was  that  his  partner  should  bea  paragon.  He  would  settle  for  nothing  less.  This  trend  of  his  had  started  long  ago,  at  school,  where  he  had  loved  little  Lise  Freuhlingslied,  pert  in  frilly  apron  and  kid  boots,  who  never  looked  at  him  without  a  scornful  toss  of  her  blond  mane  (topped  by  a  blue  satin  ribbon),  while  Sophie  Mann,  who  truly  loved  him  and  was  ever  eager  to  share  her  ham  roll  with  him  in  the  lunch  break,  could  not  get  as  much  as  a  look  or  a  thought  from  him.  Yes,  he  could  have  married  many  times  over,  later  in  Am-  sterdam,  in  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED],  but  al-  ways  to  the  Sophie  Manns,  for  whom  he  hadno  time  to  spare  because  he  was  too  busy  being  in  love  with  the  Lise  Freuhlingslieds.  So  here  he  was  now,  sixty  and  single,  though  not  sorry  for  it,  because  he  had  kept  his  ideal  un-  compromised  and  still,  however  im-  probably,  within  his  reach.  Lily  crooned  softly,  &quot;I  think  he's  got  a  terribly  cruel  streak  in  his  nature.&quot;  Then  she  added,  &quot;They  all  have.  All  these  496e646961n  men.  I  think  they  like  to  humiliate  us.&quot;  She  sounded  very  easy  and  even  rather  pleased  about  it,  as  if  she  liked  being  humiliated.  &quot;No  psychoanalysis,  please,&quot;  said  Dr.  Ernst.  &quot;I  hear  it's  out  of  fashion.&quot;  &quot;And,  you  know,  they  always  pre-  tend  to  like  our  white  skins  and  admire  us,  but  really  I  think-yes,  I'm  sure,  I'm  sure,  they  despise  us.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  saying?&quot;  cried  Dr.  Ernst.  &quot;Hate  and  despise  us,&quot;  she  said  with  relish.  He  got  up  from  the  cane  hassock.  He  would  not  hear  such  things  spoken.  In-  dians  had  always  been  so  kind  to  him  and  he  owed  them  so  much.  ([*)  A  place  to  live,  a  nationality,  friendship,  respect-all  this  they  had  given  him.  He  said,  very  primly  and  in  rebuke,  &quot;Most  of  my  friends  are  496e646961ns.&quot;  Lily  made  a  rude  sound.  &quot;Like  hell  they  are.  You  hardly  know  any,  for  all  you've  been  here  donkey's  years.&quot;  When  she  saw  him  about  to  protest,  she  cried,  &quot;All  right,  name  them,  name  them!&quot;  Without  hesitation,  and  proudly,  he  stood  and  ticked  off  his  fingers.  &quot;Sri  Manohar,  Minister  of  Moral  Reforma-  tion.  Her  Highness  of  Palangkot.  Dr.  Lall,  M.P.-&quot;  &quot;You  call  those  friends?  Why,  you're  just  their&quot;-she  shrugged  and  said  in  her  careless,  rude,  English  way-  &quot;their  hanger-on.&quot; Dr.  Ernst  was  insulted.  He  com-  pressed  his  lips,  and  his  face  took  on  a  vicious  expression.  He  had  always  been  a  mild  and  friendly  person,  but  if  he  felt  himself  insulted  by  people  whom  he  did  not  consider  his  superiors  he  wanted  revenge.  When  he  was  a  student  of  philology  at  the  university,  there  had  been  a  group  of  students  crude,  unmannerly  fellows-who  had  not  been  very  nice  to  him,  so  that  when  he  caught  one  of  them  cheating  in  the  examinations,  he  had  not  hesi-  tated  to  report  him  to  the  authorities.  This  had  ultimately  led  to  the  young  man's  expulsion,  but  Dr.  Ernst  had  not  been  sorry;  quite  on  the  contrary,  the  memory  of  this  act  filled  him  even  today  with  a  sense  of  righteousness  and  justice  done.  He  said  to  Lily  in  a  trembling  voice,  &quot;You  can  go  and  phone  your  Chinky-  Linky  yourself.&quot;  He  looked  at  her  and  felt  prompted  to  home  truths.  &quot;There  is  nothing  wrong  with  you  that  you  can't  go  to  your  office,  only  you  need  to  wash,  that  is  all,  and  tidy  up  this  room,  which  is  not  fit  for  a  human  being  to  live  in.&quot;  She  wasn't  the  least  bit  offended,  but  laughed  in  a  genuine,  frank  way.  &quot;A  real  pigsty,  don't  I  know  it.  Oh,  don't  be  cross.  Sit  down,  I  want  to  talk.&quot;  But  he  was  offended,  and  as  a  mark  of  disrespect  he  put  on  his  panama  hat  right  there  in  the  room  and  walked  out  of  the  door,  ignoring  the  plaintive  shouts  she  let  out  after  him  through  the  iron  bars.  HE  was  still  upset  when  he  reached  the  road,  but  once  he  started  walking  his  mood  changed.  How  lucky  we  are,  he  thought-always  a  " b"blue  sky.  And  he  looked  at  it  with  an  almost  proprietary  smile.  It  really  was  an  undeniable,  unflecked,  irreproach-  able  blue,  and  the  sun  was  shining  not  too  hotly  yet,  and  the  air  was  high  and  clear.  The  morning  office  rush  was  over,  and  only  a  few  slim  young  col-  lege  girls  in  freshly  laundered  saris  stood  at  the  bus  stop.  The  streets  here  were  broad  and  unpaved  and  lined  thickly  with  very  tall,  very  stately  trees  in  different  shades  of  green.  Set  back  far  from  the  road,  each  one  in  its  own  beautifully  kept  garden,  were  white  houses  with  pillars  and  verandas.  Their  gates  were  ornamental,  and  at  some  of  them  hovered  little  groups  of  servants  (the  bearer,  the  gardener,  the  watch-  man).  An  elderly  lady  went  by,  slow  and  stately  under  her  parasol,  and  a  servant  in  white  uniform  was  walking  a  beautifully  groomed  Alsatian  on  a  red  leather  lead.  Everything  was  lei-  sured  and  green  that  morning,  with  many  kinds  of  birds  singing  and  twit-  tering  in  the  trees.  Under  such  con-  ditions,  who  would  brood  over  per-  sonal  feelings,  over  a  slight  received?  Certainly  not  Dr.  Ernst;  he  had  passed  too  long  a  life,  and  one  too  full  of  setbacks,  not  to  be  able  to  shake  off  passing  moods  and  take  full  advan-  tage  of  whatever  moments  of  happiness  were  offered  to  him.  He  breathed  the  fragrant  air,  listened  to  the  birds,  and  looked  at  the  college  girls.  And  who  was  Lily,  anyway?  He  hummed  to  himself-some  gay  tune  that  rose  from  goodness  knows  what  depths  of  past  contentment.  But  he  had  not  yet  decided  where  to  go.  Other  people  went  out  to  work  every  morning;  he  went  out  to  put  himself  in  the  way  of  work.  Keeping  up  his  contacts,  he  called  it.  Certainly  one  had  to  make  people  realize  that  one  was  still  there  and  still  ready  to  oblige,  so  that  when  friends  heard  of  someone  who  wanted  German  lessons  or  French  lessons  or  Latin  (he  was  willing  to  teach  anything,  even  Viennese,  he  often  joked  ),  then  the  first  person  they  would  think  of  would  be  Dr.  Ernst,  especially  if  they  had  recently  seen  him.  Espe-  cially  as  he  was  always  so  grateful;  he  would  thank  people  effusively,  over  and  over,  in  his  most  gallant  Continental  way,  for  recommending  him,  so  that  they  felt  pleased  and  began  to  have  as  high  an  opinion  of  themselves  as  he  ob-  viously  did.  He  wondered,  as  he  walked,  who  he  should  go  and  see  this  morning.  He  felt  inclined  not  only  to  keep  up  contacts  but  also  to  spend  a  pleasant  morning  chatting  with  friends.  The  nicest  place  to  go,  of  course,  was  Maiska's,  and  al-  ready  his  thoughts  and  footsteps  were  turned  in  that  direction.  It  was  always  cozy  at  Maiska's.  She  was  a  middle-  aged  European  woman,  plain,  dowdy,  yet  with  a  charm  born  of  good  nature  and  sympathy,  which  made  her  the  cen-  ter  of  a  whole  group  of  friends,  No  one  ever  called  her  by  her  first  name,  what-  ever  that  may  have  been,or  by  her  mar-  ried  name,  which  was  a  Bengali  one,  for  at  one  stage  she  had  had  a  Bengali  husband.  Everyone  always  called  her  by  her  maiden  surname,  Maiska.  She  had  a  job  in  the  university  teaching  vari-  ous  European  languages-she  knew  a  great  number  of  them,  and  it  was  said  she  had  even  learned  Bengali  during  her  brief  married  life-and  she  lived  in  a  flat  near  the  university,  in  a  house  rather  shabby  and  crowd-  ed,  with  dirty  stairs  and  choked  drains.  But  once  inside  Maiska's  flat,  every-  thing  was  quite  different.  True,  in  her  furnishings  she  had  largely  made  use  of  cheap  496e646961n  handloom  materi-  als,  yet  somehow  the  total  effect  was  " b"completely,  cozily  Euro-  pean.  There  were  many  ashtrays,  usually  well  filled  with  stubs,  and  com-  fortable  armchairs  to  sit  in  and  good  pictures  on  the  walls  and  good  books  in  the  bookcases.  Dr.  Ernst  had  spent  some  of  h's  best  hours  there.  Maiska  really  knew  how  to  make  one  feel  at  home,  and  there  were  usu-  ally  one  or  two  other  friends  with  her-mem-  bers  of  that  band  of  dis-  placed,  lonely  Europeans,  like  Lily  and  Dr.  Ernst  himself,  who  constantly  gravitated  round  her  flat.  Only  the  week  before,  they  had  had  a  lovely  party  there.  The  Linskys  had  brought  potato  salad,  and  Anna  Shukla  had  baked  one  of  her  cheesecakes,  and  Herman  had  showed  them  a  whole  range  of  new  card  tricks  (he  was  so  clever,  they  had  all  agreed-a  real  magician).  Evenings  at  Maiska's  were  the  best,  but  even  during  the  day  it  was  a  very  pleasant  place  to  visit.  He  was  already  looking  for-  ward  to  the  cup  of  coffee  she  would  serve  him-  good  strong  European  coffee,  not  like  Lily's  weak  English  brew.  Hopefully,  he  wondered  if  he  would  meet  any  other  of  their  friends  there-Anna  Shukla  per-  haps,  or  Herman,  or  Charlene,  who  was  a  Buddhist  and  lived  in  a  Buddhist  ashrama.  They  would  talk  and  play  the  gramophone,  and  perhaps  they  would  all  cook  up  some  sort  of  tasty  lunch  together  on  Maiska's  little  electric  ring.  But  in  the  middle  of  these  pleasant  speculations,  he  sudden-  ly  remembered  Lily  and  how  she  had  said,  &quot;Name  them,  name  them!,&quot;  and  then  it  became  a  matter  of  pride  not  to  go  to  Maiska's  today.  She  was,he  told  himself,  only  one  of  many  possibilities,  and  today  it  so  hap-  pened  he  felt  more  like  visiting  one  of  his  496e646961n  friends.  He  remembered  the  names  he  had  mentioned  to  Lily-  Sri  Manohar  and  Her  Highness  of  Palangkot-all  his  good  friends  who  would  welcome  him,  though  of  course  they  were  all  busy,  important  people,  and  it  was  necessary  to  make  an  ap-  pointment  first  and  pass  through  sev-  eral  secretaries.  But,  good  heavens,  there  were  others-many,  many  other  good  friends,  whose  doors  were  always  open  to  him  and  who  would  bede-  lighted  to  see  him  any  time  he  cared  to  call.  MRS.  CHaAwLA  was  not  in  a  very  good  mood.  She  was  to  have  had  her  singing  lesson  that  morning,  but  her  singing  master  had  not  turned  up.  Unfortunate-  ly,  this  happened  quite  frequently,  and  every  time  it  did  she  contem-  plated  dispensing  with  his  services.  But  when  he  came  again  the  next  time,  she  always  forgave  him  very  readily,  for  he  had  a  charming  smile  and  was  altogether  so  young  and  debonair  that  it  seemed  no  more  than  his  due  to  have  to  work  only  when  he  felt  like  it.  Still,  it  was  dull  and  disappointing  not  to  have  one's  singing  les-  son  when  one  had  been  looking  forward  to  it,  and  today,  after  having  scolded  her  servants  on  various  points  of  dis-  order,  she  retired  in  a  huff  to  her  bedroom,  where  she  lay  down  on  the  floor  and  began  to  do  her  yoga  exercises.  She  was  in  the  middle  of  the  Sarvangasana  and  had  gother  legs  laboriously  into  the  air  and  was  bending  now  one  and  now  the  other  when  her  servant  knocked  timidly  on  the  door.  &quot;No!&quot;  she  called  at  once.  &quot;I'm  busy!&quot;  When  she  heard,  however,  that  a  sahib  had  come  and  was  wait-  ing  downstairs  in  the  drawing  room,  she  be-  came  a  little  better  pleased  and  got  up  and  began  to  brush  her  hair  before  the  mirror.  She  entered  the  draw-  ing  room  with  a  smile.  Dr.  Ernst  struggled  instantly  to  his  feet  (not  very  easy,  for  Mrs.  Chawla's  d\xc3\xa9cor  was  in  true  496e646961n  style,  with  seats  at  floor  level).  He  noticed  at  once  that  the  smile  with  which  she  entered  grew  stiff  and  uncordial  when  she  saw  that  it  was  he.  His  heart  sank-he  had  often  been  an  unwel-  come  visitor-but  it  was  too  late  to  " b"retreat.  Inan  attempt  to  put  her  in  a  better  mood  withhim,  he  arched  himself  reverently  over  her  hand  and  brushed  it  with  his  lips;  he  knew  that  496e646961n  ladies,  though  they  pretended  not  to  like  it,  were  always  flattered  by  this  form  of  greeting.  But  today  she  was  ungracious  and  withdrew  her  hand  too  quickly,  and  afterward  he  saw  her  wipe  it  on  the  end  of  her  sari.  He  had  long  since  learned  that  the  trouble  with  dropping  in  on  people  without  any  specific  purpose  but  only  for  the  sake  of  good  fellowship  was  that  the  atmosphere  tended  to  be  strained.  Today  he  did  his  best,  yet  Mrs.  Chawla  took  no  trouble  in  re-  turn-only  sat  there  and  made  no  at-  tempt  to  look  anything  but  sulky  and  bored.  He  admired  her  so  much,  both  for  her  appearance  and  for  her  person-  ality.  She  was  a  tall,  proud  woman  with  a  fine  bosom  and  a  fine  pair  of  fiery  eyes.  She  was  very  artistically  inclined,  a  founder  member  of  the  Intimate  The-  atre  Club  and  one  of  the  principal  organizers  of  the  496e646961n  Music  Circle.  One  glimpse  into  her  drawing  room  revealed  at  once  that  she  was  a  deeply  cultured  person,  for  it  was  full  of  won-  derful  artistic  pieces,  such  asa  huge  carved  chest  (once  a  village  dowry  chest,  but  nowadays  very  fashionable  as  a  sideboard),  a  heavy  brass  tray  from  Kashmir  that  was  used  as  a  coffee  table,  a  delightful  old-fashioned  urn  and  bowl  made  of  copper,  and  a  silver  rose-water  sprinkler.  Sticks  of  incense  smoldering  from  incense  holders  gave  a  richly  496e646961n  smell  and  atmosphere  to  the  room.  He  had  often  complimented  her  on  the  indigenous  quality  of  her  interior  decoration,  but  when  he  did  so  today-as  usu-  al,  contrasting  it  fa-  vorably  with  the  fashion  of  yesteryear,  when  everyone  had  prided  themselves  on  their  im-  ported  sofa  suites  and  Axminster  carpets  his  compliments  were  not  received  as  gra-  ciously  as  they  usually  were.  On  the  contrary,  she  was  even  quite  snappish.  &quot;At  last,  we  are  allowed  to  enjoy  our  own  cultural  heri-  tage.  Now  that  we  are  no  longer  under  the  heel  of  foreign  impe-  rialists,&quot;  she  said,  and  then  she  glared  at  him  for  a  moment  as  if  he,  too,  poor  Dr.  Ernst,  had  ambitions  to  be  a  foreign  impe-  rialist.  He  blushed  and  began  to  talk  fast.  He  agreed  with  her  heartily  about  the  baneful  influence  that  resulted  from  the  forcible  grafting  of  one  culture  onto  another,  and  then  he  proceeded  to  eulogize  all  aspects  of  496e646961n  art-  architecture,  music,  dance,  drama,  food,  dress,  customs,  and  ceremonies.  He  went  on  and  on,  though  she  wasn't  listening  and  he  knew  it.  He  felt  com-  pelled  to  make  it  clear  how  completely  he  was  on  her  side,  on  496e646961's  side.  He  longed  to  hear  her  say  something  en-  couraging  in  reply,  to  give  him  some  assurance  that  she  accepted  his  alle-  giance,  and  the  fact  that  she  didn't  made  him  go  on  desperately  talking.  As  he  talked,  he  looked  at  Mrs.  Chawla  with  eyes  that  were  soft  and  hurt  and  shamelessly  appealing  as  a  child's,  and  when  she  yawned,  opening  her  mouth  wide  and  half  closing  her  beautiful,  passionate  eyes,  he  longed  to  cry  out,  &quot;If  only  you  knew  how  I  love,  how  I  admire  you!&quot;  She  lounged  on  her  silk-  covered,  floor-level  seat,  and  though  it  was  a  little  difficult  for  him  to  make  himself  comfortable  and  he  had  to  shift  his  legs  from  one  side  to  the  other,  she  seemed  perfectly  at  her  ease,  leaning  with  her  elbow  on  the  bolster  behind  her,  with  one  hip  pushed  out  and  her  large  legs  under  the  sari  folded  effortlessly  beneath  her.  While  his  eyes  never  left  her,  she  hardly  glanced  at  him,  but  lay  back  inert  and  passive,  now  yawning,  now  putting  her  hand  inside  her  low-cut  blouse  to  scratch  lazily.  But  suddenly  she  changed.  She  sat  up,  and  all  that  inert  mass  throbbed   with  animation,  and  her  sleepy  eyes  opened  wide.  She  cried,  &quot;So  late!,&quot;  and  Dr.  Ernst  turned  to  where  she  was  looking  and  saw  a  young  man  with  curly  hair  and  a  fine  pair  of  shoulders.  The  young  man  was  smiling  in  a  relaxed  way  and  said,  &quot;Better  late  than  never,  I  think.&quot;  No  one  glanced  at  Dr.  Ernst.  Mrs.  Chawla  and  the  young  man  sat  on  the  carpet,  the  young  man  with  a  small  harmonium.  She  began  to  sing  scales.  &quot;Sa-ray-ga-ma-pa-da-ni-sa,&quot;  she  sang,  and  the  young  man  nodded.  She  glanced  at  him,  and  he  said,  &quot;Go  on,  go  on,&quot;  and  made  her  do  it  over,  while  he  kept  on  nodding.  Finally,  she  said,  &quot;Oh,  I  am  tired  of  your  scales!,&quot;  and  he  said,  &quot;You  must  obey  your  master.&quot;  Then  she  began  to  plead  with  him  charmingly,  putting  on  appealing  little  airs,  pursing  her  mouth,  lowering  her  eyes,  plucking  at  the  hem  of  her  sari,  but  all  in  such  a  way  that  one  knew  she  wasn't  really  pleading  and  that  it  was  only  a  game.  He  answered,  too,  as  if  it  were  a  game  and  heonly  playing  at  being  the  severe  singing  master,  and  they  both  wasted  quite  a  lot  of  time  chatting  back  and  forth.  Dr.  Ernst  smilingly  put  in  a  word,  pleading  play-  fully  for  Mrs.  Chawla  to  be  allowed  a  song,  but  he  was  not  heard.  At  last,  when  she  had  begged  enough,  the  singing  master  gave  way  and  allowed  her  to  sing.  It  was  one  of  those  ambiguous  devotional  songs,  where  no  one  can  be  sure  who  is  crying  out  to  whom-the  soul  to  God  or  the  lover  to  the  beloved.  She  tried  to  sing  with  feeling,  but  it  was  obvious  that  she  did  not  have  much  talent.  She  sang  slowly  and  stolidly,  and  the  young  man  as  stolidly  accompanied  her  on  the  harmonium,  making  a  resigned  face.  Dr.  Ernst  enjoyed  the  performance.  He  leaned  forward  eagerly,  and  there  was  a  smile  of  delight  on  his  face.  Of  course,  he  realized  that  she  did  not  sing  well,  but  it  was  not  her  singing  that  moved  him  so  much  as  the  picture  she  made.  She  and  the  young  man  together.  They  sat  in  the  middle  of  the  carpet,  which  was  floral  in  pattern  and  as  fresh  and  deli-  cate  as  a  meadow  of  flowers  in  a  Mogul  miniature.  But  the  two  figures-though  they  were  grouped  like  " b"lovers,  close  together,  he  with  his  in-  strument,  she  giving  song-were  not  in  the  least  delicate  but,  on  the  contrary,  solid  and  strong,  he  with  his  broad  chest  and  his  coarse,  handsome  face,  and  she  with  her  large,  rounded  limbs  hidden  but  suggestively  delineated  by  the  folds  of  her  sari;  her  full  throat  was  flung  back  and  emitted  loud,  lusty  sounds.  Their  heads  were  close  together,  both  richly  covered  with  healthy,  shining,  blue-black  hair.  When  the  song  was  finished,  Dr.  Ernst  clapped  in  applause.  &quot;Bravo!&quot;  he  cried  in  his  enthusiasm,  and  after  that,  &quot;Encore!,&quot;  just  as  if  he  were  at  the  opera  in  [REDACTED].  Mrs.  Chawla  for  the  first  time  turned  her  face  and  gave  him  a  short,  absent  smile  before  turning  back  to  the  young  man  and  telling  him  something  in  a  low  voice.  He  shrugged  in  resigned  agreement  and  began  to  play  the  harmonium  again  while  she  embarked  on  a  second  song.  But  she  had  not  got  very  far  when  he  broke  off  and  made  some  criticism.  He  did  this  in  an  ungracious,  almost  contemp-  tuous  way,  so  that  she  stopped  singing  and  her  expression  became  sulky.  They  looked  at  each  other  in  dislike.  Dr.  Ernst,  hoping  to  make  things  better,  said,  &quot;To  a  layman's  ear,  it  sounded  very  nice,&quot;  but  this  did  not  have  the  desired  effect.  Instead,  Mrs.  Chawla  turned  her  look  of  dislike  on  him;  her  eyes  blazed,  and  she  said,  not  to  him  but  into  the  air,  &quot;It  is  very  difficult  for  me  to  concentrate  on  my  singing  when  others  are  here  to  create  a  disturb-  ance.&quot;  Dr.  Ernst  saw  it  was  time  to  go.  He  picked  up  his  hat,  got  up,  and  made  his  farewell  bow,  holding  his  hat  against  his  navel.  Once  outside,  he  forced  him-  self  to  be  cheerful  and  walked  briskly  along.  It  was  foolish,  he  told  himself,  to  feel  hurt  or  slighted;  she  had  not  meant  anything  personal.  It  was  only  that  she  was  having  her  lesson,  and  of  course  no  one  wishes  to  be  disturbed  during  a  lesson.  It  was  kind  enough  of  her  to  have  let  him  stay  as  long  as  she  did.  She  was  his  good  friend  and  esteemed  and  liked  him  as  much  as  he  did  her.  You  silly  old  Ernst,  he  chided  himself,  always  so  touchy.  'That  was  his  trouble-looking  for  offense  where  none  was  meant.  It  was  a  very  bad  trait  in  him.  SOMETIMES  during  his  morning  peregrinations  he  was  lucky  and  was  offered  lunch,  but  today  was  not  such  aday.  He  entered  a  coffee  bar  and  carefully  studied  the  menu.  Actu-  ally,  he  didn't  have  to  do  this,  for  he  fre-  quented  the  place,  and  every  other  one  like  it,  often  enough  to  know  that  there  was  nothing  to  tempt  his  palate  beyond  hamburgers,  hot  dogs,  and  vegetable  cutlets.  Yet  every  time  he  came  he  in-  sisted  on  reading  the  menu-which  had  managed  to  get  very  dirty  in  spite  of  its  cellophane  covering-before  giv-  ing  his  order.  Perhaps  there  was  the  hope  that  some  new  dish  had  been  added  (he  was  always  dreaming  of  new  dishes;  his  appetite  was  really  much  too  good  for  his  slender  re-  sources).  Or  perhaps  it  was  because  studying  the  menu  was  partof  restau-  rant-going,  recalling  days  when  one  entered  such  places  not  solely  for  eat-  ing  but  for  other,  less  tangible  reasons,  the  way  his  parents  had  gone  to  restau-  rants,  and  he,  too,  long  ago.  They  had  gone  not  because  they  had  to  but  be-  cause  they  liked  to  once  in  a  while,  leaving  their  comfortable  home  and  dressing  up  in  going-out  clothes,  all  of  them  on  special  behavior,  ready  for  an  evening  of  elegance  and  entertainment.  The  coffee  bar  was  a  somewhat  shabby  one,  with  peeling  crimson-and-  gold  moldings.  The  patrons,  however,  were  not  in  the  least  shabby  but  very  well  and  even  flashily  dressed  in  the  latest  [REDACTED]-style  clothes.  Most  of  them  were  students  or  recent  graduates  who  had  not  yet  taken  up  any  burdens  but  were  still  comfortably  looked  after  by  rich  and  indulgent  parents.  They  none  of  them  seemed  short  of  cash,  casually  ordering  a  succession  of  drinks  and  dishes  that  made  Dr.  Ernst,  who  was  usually  hungry,  even  hungrier,  and  there  was  certainly  no  shortage  of  twenty-five-paisa  coins  to  put  into  the  jukebox,  which  played  last  year's  American  hit  tunes  interspersed  some-  times  with  the  latest  wailing,  weepy  [REDACTED]  film  song.  At  one  time  the  jukebox  had  been  a  trial  to  Dr.  Ernst,  for  it  was  loud  and  very  shrill  in  a  mechanical,  tinny  way,  but  now  he  had  got  used  to  it  and  even  liked  it  and  would  have  missed  it  if  it  had  stopped.  He  had  begun  to  recognize  many  of  the  tunes  and  had  learned  to  tap  his  feet  to  them  the  way  the  young  men  did- only  he  did  it  more  decorously,  with  his  feet  hidden  under  the  table.  He  liked  the  place.  He  sat  alone  in  a  corner,  eating  his  hamburger  and  shaking  the  bottle  to  get  out  more  of  the  congealed  ketchup.  When  he  had  finished  eating,  he  enjoyed  simply  sit-  ting  there  and  watching  the  other  cus-  tomers.  He  watched  them  with  the  same  pleasure  he  watched  Miss  Jaya  going  off  trimly  to  work  in  the  morn-  ing,  or  Mrs.  Chawla  and  her  music  teacher-admiring  them  for  their  youth,  their  vitality,  the  future  that  lay  before  them.  None  of  the  people  in  the  restaurant  spoke  to  him  or  took  any  notice  of  him,  but  he  didn't  expect  them  to.  They  were  as  infinitely  above  him,  he  felt,  with  a  not  unhappy  in-  ward  smile,  as  Lise  Freublingslied,  or  as  Lily's  handsome  young  men  were  above  Lily  herself.  They  even  looked,  in  comparison  with  Lily  and  himself,  a  higher  kind  ofbeing,  with  their  healthy,  brown,  glowing  skins,  and  their  bril-  liant  dark  eyes  and  strong  teeth  and  hair.  How  well  they  fitted  in  with  everything-and  here  he  thought  not  only  of  the  coffee  bar,  with  the  loud  jukebox  and  the  crimson-and-gold  moldings,  but  of  everything  that  lay  outside:  the  intensely  blue  skies,  the  birds  and  beasts  that  lived  in  jungles,  the  rivers,  the  vast  mountain  ranges.  It  all  belonged  to  them  and  they  to  it,  man  and  nature  made  to  each  other,  while  he  and  Lily  and  Maiska  and  Herman  and  the  rest  of  them  would  al-  ways  remain  only  pale,  stray  strangers.  Much  as  he  liked  being  there,  with  the  jukebox  and  the  young  men,  he  al-  ways  found  after  a  while  that  agreat  oppression  took  hold  of  him,  as  if  some-  thing  too  heavy  had  been  laid  on  top  of  him.  A  ridiculoussensation,  due  only  to  the  noise  and  the  smoke,  he  knew  that,  but  all  the  same  it  was  strong  enough  to  make  it  necessary  for  him  to  leave.  He  paid  his  bill,  leaving  a  tiny  tip,  and  got  up.  Just  as  he  reached  the  door,  a  new  party  of  youths  came  surging  in--  a  pride  of  bearded  young  Sikhs  in  flam-  ing  turbans  and  tartan  shirts  and  ex-  pensive  leather  boots.  Smiling,  banging  the  jukebox,  anticipating  pleasure,  they  moved  forward  in  a  solid  unseeing  phalanx,  so  that  Dr.  Ernst,  though  he  lifted  his  hat  and  said,  &quot;Excuse  me,  ex-  cuse  me,  please,&quot;  was  pushed  back  and  could  not  reach  the  door.  No  one  no-  ticed  him,  and  it  wasn't  till  they  had  all  found  chairsfor  themselves  and  were  banging  on  the  tables  and  shout,  ing  for  the  bearers  that  Dr.  Ernst  managed  to  regain  the  door  and  slip  out  into  the  street.  It  was  no  longer  pleasant  outside.  " b" The  day's  heat  had  got  into  its  stride  and  was  white  and  electric  sharp.  Pa-  riah  dogs  lay  panting  in  little  patches  of  shade,  and  from  time  to  time  a  motor-  car  passed  by,  very  swiftly,  all  its  chromium  burning  and  flashing  white  fire.  Otherwise,  the  streets  were  de-  serted,  for  the  heat  was  a  tyrant  that  strodethe  pavements  and  forced  peo-  ple  to  scuttle  away  to  the  nearest  place  of  refuge.  MAISKA\xe2\x80\x99S  was  not  quite  the  nearest,  but  it  was  near.  Unfortunately,  Lily  had  got  there  before  him,  but  for  the  time  being  he  didn't  even  mind  that,  he  was  so  glad  to  have  arrived.  He  sat  in  one  of  the  comfortable  arm-  chairs  and  shut  his  eyes  for  a  moment,  allowing  heat  and  exhaustion  to  drain  out  of  him  while  Maiska  ministered  with  something  cool  to  drink.  There  was  a  kind  of  ache  around  his  chest  and  stomach,  but  that  would  pass  off,  he  knew;  it  always  did.  All  he  needed  was  rest.  The  curtains  were  drawn  in  the  room,  so  that  everything  was  shrouded  in  a  soothing  dusk.  Maiska  and  Lily  were  both  lounging  with  their  feet  up  on  the  settee,  and  it  looked  as  if  they  had  been  there  for  a  nice  long  comfortable  time.  'They  were  both  smoking  Maiska's  Egyptian  cigarettes  and  drinking  coffee  out  of  thick  pottery  mugs  painted  in  running  colors.  Rec-  ords  were  scattered  about  on  the  floor  near  the  record-player,  which  was  open  and  still  humming,  though  the  last  record  had  finished  playing.  Although  he  meant  to  keep  his  eyes  shut  for  only  a  moment,  he  found  him-  self  slipping  more  and  more  into  a  pleasant  haze,  in  which  he  was  vaguely  aware  of  Maiska's  and  Lily's  voices  talking  together  and  the  fan  turning  overhead  and  a  hawker  in  the  street  calling  digestive  powders  for  sale  and  someone  shouting  on  the  stairs  and  someone  else  clattering  up  them  with  a  bucket.  When  he  woke,  suddenly  opening  his  eyes,  he  found  Maiska  looking  at  him.  She  smiled  at  him,  and  he  smiled  weakly  back  and  wanted  more  than  anything  to  shut  his  eyes  and  go  to  sleep  again.  But  he  made  an  effort  and  sat  up  in  the  chair  in  which  he  had  been  drooping.  A  moment's  uneasy  thought-had  his  mouth  fallen  open?  Had  he  snored?  He  hated  to  be  seen  too  privately,  off  guard.  He  took  out  his  handkerchief  and  passed  it  over  his  wet,  perspiring  face  and  neck  and  head.  &quot;Must  have  dropped  off,&quot;  he  mumbled,  and  smiled  again  at  Maiska  apologetically.  She  said,  &quot;Go  on,  sleep  a  bit  more,&quot;  and  looked  at  him  with  sympathy,  as  if  she  knew  just  how  tired  he  was  and  how  he  didn't  want  to  wake  up.  But  he  had  to.  Of  course,  a  nap  in  the  after-  noon  was  nothing  to  reproach  oneself  for  (at  his  age  and  in  this  climate!  ),  but  one  also  had  to  know  when  to  cut  it  short.  Otherwise,  there  was  the  dan-  ger  of  sinking  too  deep  and  giving  way  to  the  desire  to  sleep  forever  and  not  have  to  get  up  at  all  anymore  and  walk  around  and  meet  people.  He  put  away  his  handkerchief  and  patted  and  jerked  and  brushed  at  his  crumpled  clothes  to  get  them  dapper  again.  While  he  was  doing  this,  he  said,  casually,  not  looking  at  Lily,  &quot;I  spenta  very  nice  morning  with  Mrs.  Chaw-  la.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  stand  her,&quot;  Lily  said  at  once.  &quot;A  conceited,  stupid  cow.&quot;  &quot;She  asked  me  to  come  again  very  soon.&quot;  Then  he  shouted  at  Lily,  &quot;Be  " b"careful  how  you  speak  of  my  friends!&quot;  He  was  very  angry,  and  it  did  him  good.  He  shouted  some  more,  and  what  a  relief  it  was  not  to  have  to  curb  one's  feelings  for  once  but  to  be  able  to  indulge  them,  to  relish  a  sense  of  one's  own  injury.  No  one  tried  to  stop  him,  and  only  when  he  had  finished  did  Lily  say,  quite  mildly,  &quot;I  didn't  know  she  was  your  friend.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  know,&quot;  he  repeated  in  exasperation.  &quot;I  told  you:  I  have  many,  many  496e646961n  friends.&quot;  He  waited  for  this  challenge  to  be  taken  up,  and  was  partly  mollified  when  it  wasn't.  Maiska  cleared  a  space  on  the  table  and  placed  a  mug  of  coffee  in  front  of  him,  into  which  she  spooned  sugar,  murmuring  to  herself,  &quot;Two  and  a  half,&quot;  for  she  always  knew  exactly  how  much  sugar  each  of  her  friends  took  and  didn't  have  to  ask.  Dr.  Ernst  was  not  very  angry  any-  more,  but  he  felt  Lily  shouldn't  be  let  off  too  easily.  He  said,  &quot;Put  your  leg  down,&quot;  for  she  was  sitting  in  an  easy  but  not  decorous  position.  &quot;Aren't  you  ashamed?  No  wonder  all  your  young  men  don't  want  to  look  at  you.&quot;  &quot;Don't  rub  it  in,&quot;  said  Lily  plain-  tively,  at  whichMaiska  laughed,  but,  to  cover  up  any  tactlessness,  she  quickly  added,  &quot;Never  mind,  one  day  she'll  meet  the  right  one.&quot;  &quot;But  I  have!&quot;  wailed  Lily.  &quot;'They've  all  been  the  right  ones!  It's  always  me  who's  wrong.&quot;  Dr.  Ernst  inwardly  agreed.  She  was  wrong.  He  looked  at  her,  not  so  much  in  distaste  now  as  in  pity,  feeling  sorry  for  her  because  her  body  was  clumsy  and  her  skin  too  flabby  and  white.  She  couldn't  help  this,  poor  thing,  but  why  had  she  come  here,  why  had  she  stayed  here,  in  a  country  where  man  and  na-  ture  were  colorful  and  lush  and  with-  out  pity?  He  thought  of  Mrs.  Chawla,  of  the  young  Sikhs  in  their  boots  and  tartan  shirts,  and  he  leaned  toward  Lily  quite  tenderly  and  gave  a  little  tug  at  her  skirt  to  make  it  cover  her  knees,  and  then  he  said,  in  a  smiling,  paternal  voice,  &quot;That's  better.&quot;  Maiska  was  putting  another  record  on  her  record-player.  She  did  not  have  many  records,  and  those  she  hadwere  old  and  none  too  clear,  but  they  were  all  only  the  highest  classics.  There  was  Brahms  and  Beethoven  and  Bach,  and  often  her  friends  gathered  for  an  in-  formal  musical  evening.  They  had  all  spent  last  New  Year's  Eve  like  that-  Maiska  and  Lily  and  Dr.  Ernst  and  Charlene  and  the  Linskys  and  Herman  and  Anna  Shukla.  Maiska  had  served  beer  and  sandwiches,  and  they  had  put  on  record  after  record,  and  though  at  first  they  hadhad  some  conversa-  tion,  as  the  night  wore  on  they  grew  silent  and  listened  only  to  the  music  and  each  thought  his  own  thoughts.  At  midnight,  they  were  playing  the  choral  part  of  Beethoven's  Ninth  Symphony  and  they  all  got  up  and  wished  each  other  a  happy  new  year.  &quot;Freude,  schooner  Giotterfunken&quot;  had  sounded,  loud  if  a  little  blurred,  from  the  record-  player,  filling  the  room  and  their  hearts,  and  some  of  them  (including  Dr.  Ernst)  had  had  tears  in  theireyes.  He  couldnot  identify  the  record  she  had  put  on  now,  but  it  was  some  sort  of  flute  concerto-graceful  and  happy.  Mozart,  he  suspected,  though  he  didn't  like  to  ask,  in  case  he  was  wrong.  His  foot  tapped  and  his  head  nodded  in  time.  It  was  much,  much  nicer  than  Mrs.  Chawla's  singing.  Sud-  denly  he  felt  proud  and  European  and  full  of  affection  for  Maiskaand  Lily,  co-heirs  with  him  of  a  wondrous  heri-  tage-Mozart!  Versailles!  Goethe's  Weimar!  Lily  was  smoking  a  cigarette,  making  the  end  of  it  red  and  wet  with  lipstick,  and  puffing  out  too  much  smoke,  and  Maiska  brought  more  cof-  fee  in  a  saucepan  and  refilled  their  mugs  brimful.  Dr.  Ernst  began  to  sing  with  the  music,  and,  not  content  with  that-so  gay  did  it  make  him  feel-he  got  up  and  put  his  hands  beside  his  face  and  crossed  his  feet  at  the  ankles,  and  thus  played  an  imaginary  flute,  sway-  ing  this  way  and  that  and,  at  particu-  larly  piercing  moments,  getting  up  on  his  toes  as  if  to  reach  with  the  music  up  to  Heaven.    "