   A  BRIEF  OV  NER  SHIP  e  I  SHE  Automobile  Association  had  given  us  a  route  to  Cape  Wrath  and  I  was  checking  it  with  the  Gazetteer  of  [REDACTED].  &quot;DRUMOCHTER  PASS,&quot;  I  read.  &quot;The  main  Inverness  road  accompanied  by  the  railway  trav-  erses  this  lofty  and  desolate  pass  in  the  Grampians.&quot;  I  saw  no  harm  in  that.  On  winter  nights  the  Inverness  road  might  like  to  be  companioned  ;  and  if  the  car  broke  down  we  could  wait  for  the  next  train.  At  that  pointthere  was  a  crash  in  the  kitchen  and  I  went  off  to  tell  the  cat  that  all  was  discovered.  When  I  got  back,a  breeze  from  the  window  had  flapped  over  the  page.  &quot;DULL,&quot;  I  read,  &quot;see  WEEM.&quot;  Entangled  in  an  idle  curiosity,  I  began  turning  over  the  alphabetical  pages  of  the  Gazetteer  in  pursuit  of  Weem.  In  fact,  I  had  not  the  smallest  wish  to  learn  about  Weem,  We  were  going  to  Cape  Wrath,  and  in  spirit  I  had  already  struck  root  in  Dull.  Dull-as  I  seemed  to  know  as  if  I  had  actually  been  there-was  a  small  unvisited  town  in  East  Fife.  It  was  not  even  decayed.  It  was  just  small  and  al-  ways  had  been.  There  was  a  good  iron-  monger  opposite  the  War  Memorial  (the  War  Memorial  was  a  non-denom-  inational  obelisk  of  shiny  granite,  to  suit  all  tastes),  and  a  goodish  grocer  in  East  Street.  Fish  came  in  a  van,  for  Dull  was  only  seven  miles  from  the  coast.  Dried  fish,  though,  could  be  got  at  the  greengrocer's,  and  sometimes  cockles,  and  in  July  gooseberries,  and  potatoes  and  turnips  and  tinned  pineapple  at  all  times  of  year.  From  Dull  you  could  go  to  Cupar.  A  proverb  expressing  the  philosophy  of  a  race  indoctrinated  with  Calvinism  says,  &quot;He  who  will  to  Cupar  maun  to  Cupar.&quot;  It  is  a  proverb  often  on  my  lips.  Even  when  my  hearers  don't  understand  it,  they  take  the  stern  sense  of  it  and  are  quietened.  I  had  settled,  however,  a  couple  of  miles  outside  the  town.  In  spring  (spring  took  its  time  in  Dull)  the  words  &quot;Dull  Lodge&quot;  appeared-  loomed,  rather-in  snowdrops  on  the  bank  beside  the  drive  gate.  Snowdrops  multiply  in  course  of  time,  and  the  &quot;g&quot;  had  got  quite  out  of  control.  Dull  Lodge  was  a  stone-built,  slate-roofed,  three-storied  house,of  modest  propor-  tions  but  giving  an  incontrovertible  im-  pression  of  uprightness.  It  stood  back  from  the  road,  and  a  belt  of  mixed  beech  trees  and  conifers  sheltered  it  from  the  east  wind  and  the  morning  sun.  From  the  bathroom  window  (the  bathroom  was  on  the  third  floor)  you  could  see  the  melancholy  shine  of  the   North  Sea.  The  surrounding  country  was  flattish.  There  was  a  pervading  smell  of  sea  in  the  air,  mingled  with  a  smell  of  turnips.  Dull  Lodge  was  built  in  1850  by  a  retired  wine  merchant  who  had  somehow  got  away  from  Cupar.  It  was  as  plain  and  purposeful  as  a  ledger,  but  made  one  concession  to  Scottish  Baronial  in  the  shape  of  a  small  bartizan  at  the  northeast  corner.  The  large  sash  windows  had  been  put  in  by  the  hand  of  a  master.  They  were  total-  ly  draftproof,  and  there  was  not  a  rattle  among  them.  Indeed,  on  stormy  nights  it  could  be  quite  eerie  to  sit  in  this  impregnable  stillness;  but  com-  fortable.  The  windows  were  no  trouble  to  keep  clean  because  I  had  a  gardener.  He  was  dumb  and  went  with  the  place.  He  lived  a  quiet  bachelor  life  in  a  flat  over  the  disused  stables,  and  when  his  figs  and  his  wall  pears  began  to  ripen  he  tied  them  up  in  small  muslin  bags.  As  I  did  no  gardening  myself,  he  thought  quite  well  of  me.  I  did  no  gardening,  because  I  had  gone  to  Dull  Lodge  in  order  to  retire.  I  had  furnished  it  with  retirement  in  view.  For  once  in  my  life,  I  had  a  suf-  ficiency  of  bookshelves.  I  also  had  four  black  horsehair  sofas,  which  I  had  bought  at  a  local  sale-a  couple  in  the  sitting  room,  one  in  my  bedroom,  one  in  the  kitchen.  (It  is  a  fallacy  to  suppose  that  a  kitchen  is  a  fountain  of  perpetual  youth  and  that  the  moment  one  sets  foot  in  it  energy  courses  through  one's  veins.)  There,  on  one  or  another  of  these  admirable  sofas,  I  put  my  feet  up  and  pursued  my  researches  into  the  religious  life.  Research  fortifies  retirement,  which  even  in  ahouse  like  Dull  Lodge  is  an  imperilled  structure,  since  we  are  none  of  us  wholly  free  from  conscience:  you  suppress  it  about  visiting  old  Miss  Tomkins  who  would  be  lost  without  that  weekly  little  cheerful  chat  on  the  wickedness  of  her  relations  and  it  starts  up  afresh  in  a  compulsion  to  do  some-  thing  for  Punch-and-Judy  men.  But  with  a  good  solid  blameless  piece  of  re-  search  in  hand,  conscience  can  howl  without  and  good  works  blandish  like  harlots:  you  are  safe,  you  are  buttressed,  you  may  disregard  them  and  continue  to  lie  on  your  horsehair  sofa  with  your  feet  up  and  read  about  nineteenth-cen-  tury  Church  of  England  bishops.  I  had  chosen  these  particular  bishops  because,  except  by  their  biographers,  they  are  singularly  unexplored.  The  light  that  plays  on  the  grandes  vedettes,  Newman  and  Pusey  and  &quot;Satan&quot;  Montgomery,  leaves  them  twilit.  Yet  there  they  were.  I  thought  a  catelogue  raisonné  would  not  come  amiss.  At  first  sight  they  appear  much  of  a  muchness  (and  undeniably  it  is  a  muchness;  if  I  had  realized  what  a  lot  of  them  I  was  taking  on,  I  might  have  turned  to  some  other  subject  for  re-  search-unicarns,  for  instance).  How-  ever  diversely  they  may  have  begun,  whatever  vagaries  they  may  have  pur-  sued  at  the  university,  whatever  persua-  sions  may  have  led  them  to  scratch  each  &quot;|  other's  eyes  out,  their  destiny  is  their  -|  destiny,  and  by  the  time  they  are  mid-  dle-aged  itis  pretty  clear  what  will  be-  H  come  of  them:  each  in  his  turn  will  be  ordained  bishop  by  other  bishops  and  merge  into  the  mitred  flock.  But  as  a  good  shepherd  knows  each  of  his  sheep  by  something  personal  to  it-a  squint,  a  scar,  a  pinker  nose,  a  more  flippant  gait,  a  more  searching  expression,  a  tendency  to  bloat,  apertinacity  in  baa-  ing-I  hoped  to  become  so  conversant  with  my  bishops  that  I  should  end  by  perfectly  knowing  them  apart.  Natu-  rally,  I  had  my  favorites.  I  felt  a  partic-  ular  affection,  positively  amounting  to  approbation,  for  Bishop  Thirlwall  of  St.  David's,  who  kept  cats.  Naturally,  too,  I  developed  preferences;  I  pre-  ferred  Broad  bishops  to  High  ones.  But  High,  Broad,  or  Low,  I  tried  to  keep  an  open  mind  about  them,  reading  with  sympathy  of  their  unmitred  domestic  hours:  the  deaths  of  their  wives,  the  dis-  appointingness  of  their  children,  their  ||  palace  chimneys  smoking  in  a  north  wind.  And  from  time  to  time  I  found  |  them  making  remarks  of  such  acumen  and  humanity  that  one  would  have  ex-  pected  everybody  to  be  quite  charmed  and  to  leave  off  snarling  immediately,  as  the  animals  did  when  Orpheus  played  on  his  lute.  Though  in  fact  it  proved  otherwise.  Thus,  moving  from  bishop  to  bishop,  returning  them  to  the  [REDACTED]  Library  and  unpacking  new  ones  (it  was  ex-  tremely  rare  for  a  bishop  to  be  un-  available),  listening  to  the  wind,  watch-  2  ing  the  changing  color  of  the  fields,  admiring  the  snowdrops,  eating  quanti-  ties  of  ripe  figs,  tapping  the  barometer,  strolling  out  in  the  wistful  autumnal  dusk  when  the  gardener  would  not  be  about  to  suspect  my  intentions  and  even  staying  out  long  enough  to  see  the  public  lighting  of  Dull  extinguished  at  10:30  p.m.,  I  lived  in  contentment  and  self-satisfaction  at  Dull  Lodge.  ND  then  I  turned  over  another  page  of  the  Gazetteer  and  had  seen  &quot;WEEM.&quot;  In  a  flash  I  was  out  of  Dull  Lodge,  away  from  the  horizon  of  sea  and  the  gulls  and  the  good  ironmonger  and  a  far  cry  from  Cupar.  &quot;wEEM,&quot;  I  read.  &quot;Perth.  Early  clos-  ing  Wed.  Lies  on  the  north  bank  of  the  River  Tay.  2%  miles  W.  is  the  hamlet  of  Dull,  preserving  an  old  Cross,  while  in  the  vicinity  are  various  prehistoric  cairns,  standing  stones  and  remains  of  stone  circles.&quot;  No.  No,  such  a  Dull  wouldn't  do.  The  Tay  is  a  noble  river  and  we  shall  cross  it  with  admiration  on  our  way  to  ac-  company  the  railway  to  Inverness.  Preserving  old  Crosses  is  a  laudable  industry.  Prehistoric  remains  are  pleas-  ing  to  the  young.In  short,  the  revealed  Dull,  2%  miles  E.  of  Weem,  was  in  every  way  a  superior  article.  But  it  wouldn't  do.  It  wasn't  what  I  had  in  mind.  And  the  moral  of  all  this  is,  as  usual,  Leave  Well  Alone.  By  grasping  at  the  substance,  I  have  forfeited  the  lovely  shadow.  By  fidgeting  through  the  Gazetteer  in  pursuit  of  Weem-a  place  of  no  interest  to  me  except  as  an  adjunct  to  Dull  (so  peculiarly  my  own)-I  have  lost  Dull  Lodge,  I  no  longer  possess  a  property  in  East  Fife,  I  am  not  even  retired. 