 b"MY  mother  is  such  a  terrible  doctor  that  she  has  left  a  stamp  on  the  district.  The  villages  around  are  full  of  faith  healers  and  health-food  shops,  and  there  is  a  prodigious  local  resistance  to  infection  because  she  has  never  in  her  life  steri-  lized  a  hypodermic  needle  properly.  Though  the  average  life  expectancy  of  the  population  is  low,  the  children  are  as  tough  as  Neanderthal  kids  must  have  been  and  no  one  could  say  that  people  aren't  happy.  Most  ofthe  women  have  developed  the  strength  of  oxen  and  when  they  do  fall  ill  they  dislike  admit-  ting  it.  The  men,  who  suffer  more,  es-  pecially  from  hypochondria,  buy  gypsy  remedies  and  herb  teas.  For  a  dormi-  tory  town  in  Sussex  in  the  nineteen-  sixties,  the  number  of  jolly  babies  is  amazing-more  like  a  South  Sea  is-  land  before  monogamy.  To  imagine  my  mother  you  have  to  think  of  a  mixture  of  a  missionary  and  a  duchess,  though  left-wing.  My  moth-  er  has  always  been  entirely  left.  I  think  the  reason  my  father  went  away,  apart  from  their  unhappiness,  which  seems  to  be  worse  on  her  side  now  than  it  was  before,  is  that  he  had  Tory  doubts.  He  grew  up  in  a  grand  house  and  Mama's  convictions  upset  Papa's  father,  a  nice  old  barnacle  with  a  gale  of  a  voice  who  unfairly  blames  her  for  the  state  of  the  economy.  He  also  goes  on  at  her  about  the  556e6974656420537461746573nization  of  England,  espe-  cially  for  the  tendency  to  put  brand  names  on  things  such  as  the  emblem  on  his  1926  Rolls-Royce,  which  is  pretty  silly  of  himand  obviously  no  more  the  fault  of  [REDACTED]  than  itis  of  my  moth-  er,  who  is  English  to  her  bootheels.  In  any  case,  I  don't  know  why  a  grown  woman  should  be  penalized  for  riding  a  bicycle  into  somebody's  stable  yard.  My  grandfather,  who  said  that  she  should  be  capable  of  getting  about  on  a  horse  like  anyone  else,  yelled  at  her  that  there  had  never  been  any-  thing  but  horses  in  that  yard  since  Henry  VIII.  (This  was  actually  a  lie,  because  there  has  always  been  a  lawn-  mower  in  one  of  the  loose-boxes.)  My  mother  said  back  that  she  found  horses  phenomenally  alarming  to  sit  on,  and  that  she  needed  a  bicycle  for  her  work  just  as  much  when  she  was  spending  Saturday  to  Monday  with  people  who  hunted  foxes  for  a  career  as  when  she  was  pigging  it  in  a  semi,  which  is  the  way  she  tends  to  talk  when  she  is  pro-  tecting  herself.  We  live  in  a  semidetached  house  with  a  vengeance,  she  and  I,  and  pigging  it  is  hardly  the  phrase.  Mother  prac-  tically  exists  on  debris  and  rubble,  like  a  sheepdog  I  know  that  hates  meat  and  only  seems  to  eat  rock.  When  I  finally  took  a  room  in  [REDACTED]  in  the  week,  it  was  mostly  because  I'd  been  pushed  out  by  the  lava  of  Mother's  sardine  tins  and  medical  journals  and  inventions  and  bicycle  pumps  and  mounds  of  freakish  makeup,  which  she  buys  in  bulk  from  a  mail-order  firm,  though  it  doesn't  usually  work  for  her  any  better  than  her  medicines.  It  came  out  later  that  what  my  grandfather  really  objected  to  was  not  so  much  the  bicycle  as  the  basket  on  the  front  of  it,  I  think  he  was  braced  to  the  idea  of  a  period  that  included  bicycles,  because  the  gardener's  boys  had  been  using  them  on  the  estate  since  the  beginning  of  the  First  World  War.  What  he  detested  was  a  female  relation  pedalling  about  in  front  of  people  he  knew  with  a  bicycle  basket  full  of  books.  My  grandfather  is  against  the  further  education  of  women.  For  me  this  has  had  the  nice  effect  of  his  not  minding  about  my  being  dimand  illiterate.  He  has  an  enormous  medieval  library  himself,  but  he  doesn't  use  it  because  the  books  are  all  in  Latin  and  he  says  that  reading  Latin  again  would  make  him  forget  Greek,  which  he  uses  to  make  up  crossword  puzzles.  His  reading  consists  mostly  of  Horse  &amp;  Hound,  Country  Life,  and  the  Field.  In  the  evenings  he  also  has  an  hour  with  a  detective  thriller  or  a  sci-fi  before  bed,  standing  up  at  a  lectern  in  the  li-  brary  and  reading  the  book  as  if  it  were  chained  up  like  the  Gutenberg  Bible.  My  grandmother,  who  dieda  year  ago,  leaving  him  lonely,  never  used  to  he  allowed  into  the  library  at  all.  After  her  death  my  grandfather  seemed  to  think  of  his  connection  with  the  sex  as  severed,  he  having  five  sons  and  not  being  a  man  to  count  the  cook.  So  my  motherhad  to  pay  for  be-  longing  to  a  gender  that  didn't  quite  exist  in  his  head  any  longer,  and  there  were  many  rows  about  more  than  bi-  cycles,  and  my  father  got  more  and  more  right-wing  and  miserable,  though  he  never  failed  to  back  up  my  mother  against  opposition.  As  for  me,  she  has  always  wanted  me  to  be  an  intellectual,  and  the  dis-  appointment  to  her  must  be  constant.  I  wish  she  had  never  begot  me-nor  that  my  father  had  either,  for  that  matter,  though  I  assume  that  the  mother  must  be  held  mostly  responsible.  I  also  wish  that  I  were  bright,  and  that  she  wouldn't  go  out  of  the  room  y  PM  57  so  conspicuously  when  my  brain  stalls,  which  she  does  soas  not  to  be  squash-  ing,  of  course,  but  it  still  has  a  squash-  ing  effect.  It  strikes  me  often  that  Oedipus  must  havebeen  the  only  child  in  history  who  ever  really  loved  his  mother.  I  don't,  I'm  afraid.  Not  if  I  am  honest.  A  lot  of  other  feelings  pass  for  love  between  us  a  good  deal  of  the  time-  compunction,  for  one.  She  provokes  more  of  that  in  me  than  I  like  to  admit.  It  seems  a  puny  response  to  a  tempera-  ment  that  I  know  I  would  admire  and  like  very  much  if  I  weren't  related  to  it.  Other  people  can  see  that  she  is  re-  markable  in  spite  of  the  rubble  tenden-  cies,  and  that  she  deserves  the  license  of  her  originality,  not  to  mention  her  guts.  I  do  try  to  extend  this  license  to  her,  but  it  is  easier  when  I  am  away  from  her,  which  is  the  old  story  about  mothers  and  children,  I  suppose.  Back  at  home  for  weekends,  I  feel  inept  and  dream  of  revenge-revenge  on  life,  if  possible,  without  involving  her.  She  is  a  startling  woman,  and  I  would  dearly  like  to  startle  her  back  bybeing  brainy  and  intellectually  dashing.  But  what  I  mostly  haven't  is  brilliance-that  and  concentration.  The  combination  of  the  two  lacks  is  bad.  My  school  reports  were  always  making  that  clear,  and  so  does  my  mother,  however  hard  she  tries  not  to.  I  daresay  I  arouse  as  much  com-  punction  in  her  as  she  does  in  me.  I  can  see  that  my  rotten  jokes  hammer  her  into  the  ground,  for  instance,  but  even  so  she  generally  makes  an  effort  to  laugh,  snorting  through  her  nose  and  looking  handsome,  as  she  some-  times  can,  and  I  feel  worse  than  ever.  When  I  was  seventeen,  aft-  er  four  years  at  a  viciously  ex-  pensive  English  public  school  paid  for  by  my  father,  where  she  just-  ly  said  thatI  did  nothing  but  fid-  dle  and.  moon,  she  sent  me  for  a  college  term  to  [REDACTED].  How  she  did  it  out  of  her  doctor's  income  I  daren't  think,  because  she  never  sends  in  a  bill  if  her  patients  don't  get  better  and  this  means  a  good  deal  of  work  for  nothing.  Anyway,  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns  were  encour-  aging,  and  I  felt  more  capable  and  thought  I  might  even  be  some  good  at  acting.  I  don't  know  if  it  could  ever  have  led  anywhere.  When  I  did  com-  edy  atcollege,  it  went  down  quite  well  and  my  nose  was  an  adjunct.  My  mother  regrets  my  nose,  but  in  Amer-  ica  I  think  they  thought  the  abnormal  size  of  it  was  just  something  to  do  with  being  European,  like  not  liking  bacon  frizzled  into  a  crisp,  or  not  getting  up-  set  about  homosexuals.  I  am  also  pecul-  " b"iar  physically  because  of  being  nearly  sixfeet.  My  mother's  pie-eyed  theory  of  medicine  holds  this  responsible  for  my  dimness.  She  says  the  strain  on  the  ver-  tebrae  drains  something  essential  out  of  the  cerebral  cortex.  This  sounds  absurd  even  to  me,  but  it  makes  a  kindly  ex-  cuse,  and  one  that  I  am  not  above  grab-  bing  when  life  gets  me  down.  If  only  being  an  intellectual  were  more  physical.  When  I  sit  and  read,  a  good  seven-eighths  of  me  simply  isn't  being  used.  I  keep  thinking  about  my  feet  and  my  legs  and  my  spine  all  doing  nothing,  and  the  result  is  very  destructive  to  the  feeble  work  going  on  in  my  brain-as  bad  as  thinking  about  the  pedalling  when  you  are  play-  ing  the  piano,  which  is  a  sure  way  of  wrecking  what  your  fingers  are  sup-  posed  to  be  doing.  I  also  keep  getting  tripped  up  by  thoughts  of  food.  Being  so  tall,  and  non-cerebral,  which  is  what  they  told  me  I  was  in  [REDACTED]  in  vocational  guidance,  I  seem  to  need  a  lot  to  eat.  As  soon  as  I  have  a  decent  thought-  I  mean,  a  genuine  intellectual  idea,  a  sentence  that  doesn't  have  the  name  of  anyone  you  know  in  it-as  soon  as  I  do  happen  to  have  such  a  thing,  I  immediately  seem  to  think  of  food.  It  must  be  a  lot  easier  for  people  to  be  intellectuals  when  they  are  shorter  and  need  less  nourishment,  like  my  mother.  Alexander  Pope  was  a  midget.  I  was  out  in  the  garden  the  other  day  in  the  middle  of  a  not  bad  concept  about  the  Common  Market,  peacefully  watching  a  lark  overhead  that  was  going  off  like  an  alarm  clock,  and  I  suddenly  thought,  I'd  love  a  bar  of  chocolate.  Obviously,  many  people  must  be  better  than  I  am  at  getting  their  minds  to  stay  where  they  put  them.  When  I  look  at  something  like  the  leader  page  on  the  front  of  the  New  Statesman,  two  columns  of  intellectual  sentences  all  following  on  properly  from  each  other,  I  keep  watching  for  the  gaps  where  the  manwho  was  writ-  ing  it  must  have  got  up  for  a  cup  of  cof-  fee  and  a  biscuit.  But  there  never  seem  to  beany.  In  Mama's  house  I  catch  myself  having  morbid  thoughts  of  snacks  all  the  time,  what  with  the efforts  about  being  an  intellectual  and  also  the  lack  of  meals.  A  family  like  mine  is  as  departmental  as  a  government  ministry,  and  it  has  never  been  easy  to  communicate  about  basic  rules  like  who  does  the  cooking.  Before  Father  left,  my  mother  did  it,  I  think,  though  meals  didn't  loom.  Father  was  fond  of  boiled  sweets  and  throat  pastilles,  and  Mama  brought  him  back  supplies  of  anything  reason-  ably  edible  in  the  way  of  pastilles  from  her  dispensary.  I  lived  on  doughnuts  and  Bovril,  mostly.  On  the  Sundays  when  my  mother  wasn't  out  on  acase,  we  had  stew.  She  used  to  cook  it  rather  fast  for  stew,  with  a  stethoscope  round  her  neck  and  her  bicycle  propping  the  back  dooropen  because  she  always  got  too  hot.  Sunday  tea  was  another  huge  binge:  two  blowouts  in  a  row,  with  scones  and  slab  cake  and  crumpets  and  Oxford  marmalade  and  a  new  loaf.  But  when  Father  had  gone  the  cooking  stopped,  and  after  a  few  months  I  realized  there  was  probably  a  new  set  of  rules  in  my  mother's  mind  and  it  wouldn't  hurt  if  I  took  over.She's  much  too  thin  now,  especially  by  Fri-  days.  She  must  have  lost  a  good  ten  pounds  since  Father  left.  She  spends  hours  going  to  sleep  at  night  and  then  stays  under  fora  long  time  in  the  mornings,  which  is  what  women  seem  to  do  when  they're  unhappy,  and  the  opposite  way  round  to  the  insomnia  of  unhappy  men.  This  means  there  is  never  time  now  for  her  to  have  break-  fast,  which  was  the  one  meal  she  used  to  tuck  into  in  the  old  days,  being  upper  class.  For  her  birthday  I  bought  her  a  Norwegian  steel  pan  with  a  petroleum-jelly  flare  under  it,  and  I  left  it  in  her  room  at  night  with  some  bacon  and  eggs  ready,  in  the  hope  that  she'd  cook  herself  something  when  she  couldn't  sleep.  But  a  couple  of  months  ago  it  disappeared,  and  then  I  saw  it  in  her  surgery  being  used  for  one  of  her  experiments.  If  only  my  mother  would  read  the  medical  journals  that  pile  up  in  the  house,  instead  of  trying  to  find  things  out  from  scratch  herself.  I'm  sure  other  people  must  have  dis-  covered  a  lot  of  the  answers  already.  I  hate  the  worry  the  experiments  give  her  and  thespectacle  of  more  and  more  patients  joining  the  Christian  Science  Church.  \xe2\x80\x9cI  'VE  had  a  letter  from  your  father,&quot;  she  said  when  I  came  down  one  weekend.  During  the  week  I  live  in  a  Maida  Vale  basement  with  a  sculptor  I  might  marry,  and  my  father  some-  times  comes  for  food.  She  doesn't  know  that  I'm  living  with  anyone.  " b"Even  Father  has  only  just  been  able  to  nerve  himself  to  say  that  he  has  a  mistress.  He  was  never  married  to  Mama,  because  of  her  Socialism,  but  this  didn't  make  the  news  any  less  hard  for  her  to  bear.  Father  and  I  both  seem  to  find  it  impossibly  difficult  to  tell  her  things.  &quot;What  did  the  letter  say?&quot;  I  asked  Mama,  buttering  both  of  us  a  muffin.  Her  fingers  were  yellow  fromsome  experiment  or  other  and  the  house  reeked  of  sulphur;  I  think  she  had  been  pursuing  a  theory  in  the  bathroom.  She  had  her  cardigan  sleeve  rolled  up  and  her  right  arm  was  peppered  with  needle  jabs.  &quot;Myra's  taking  him  into  hospital,&quot;  she  said.  Myra  is  the  mistress.  \xe2\x80\x9cWhy?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;He  doesn't  say.&quot;  &quot;He  must  say  something.&quot;  &quot;She's  putting  him  into  the  private  wing.  Not  on  the  Health  Service.  The  nurses  are  terrible  in  the  private  wing.  He  won't  get  looked  after  properly.  Responsible  people  shouldn't  give  their  support  to  the  old  system,  anyway.  If  there  weren't  the  ambiguity  of  private  practice  still  going  on,  the  National  Health  Service  would  be  better.  It  must  be  something  worrying  or  he'd  never  have  agreed  to  go  in.  His  heart.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  matter  with  your  arm?&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;You  look  like  a  junkie.&quot;  &quot;My  electromyogram  experiments.&quot;  &quot;What  are  they?&quot;  &quot;You've  forgotten.  I  told  you.&quot;  I  suppose  she  did.  I  seem  to  retain  nothing.  Her  arm  looked  so  poorly.  &quot;Have  you  seen  him  lately?&quot;  she  said  as  I  was  going  to  bed.  She  was  walking  away  from  me  toward  the  back  of  the  ugly  little  hall,  with  a  load  of  books  under  her  chin.  &quot;Yes.  This  week.  For  dinner.&quot;  She  didn't  reply  and  I  felt  I'd  better  go  on  because  silence  seemed  deceptive,  even  though  there  was  nothing  much  more  to  tell.  &quot;Minestrone  and  paste  and  chocolate  steamed  pudding,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;How  was  Myra?&quot;  &quot;All  right.  Quite  chatty.&quot;  There  was  more  silence.  &quot;Do  you  hate  her?&quot;  I  asked,  pretty  stupidly,  but  I  wanted  to  be  sure.  Mama  spilled  the  books  into  a  log  basket  in  a  cupboard  and  looked  inside  a  gum  boot  for  something.  &quot;I  like  the  first  twenty  years  of  her  life,&quot;  she  said.  Mother  often  speaks  about  people  as  if  they  weren't  quite  human  beings-more  like  works  of  art  that  get  slammed  in  the  Sunday  papers,  books  that  pall,  or  plays  that  go  off  after  the  first  act  be-  cause  of  something  to  do  with  the  au-  thor's  intentions.  People's  middle  age  and  retirement  never  seem  to  please  her.  But  who  does  like  the  last  chapter  of  a  life?  No  one  enjoys  the  sight  of  some-  one  waning.  Anyway,  I  don't  want  to  be  judged  as  if  I  were  a  novel  that  had  to  stand  up  in  the  sight  of  fu-  ture  generations.  I  hope  to  lie  down,  in  fact.  I  hope  to  lie  down  and  just  die  when  I'm  dead.  I've  had  enough  of  justifying  myself  already  with  my  moth-  er.  &quot;Father  looked  fine,&quot;  I  said,  because  her  silence  might  have  meant  she  was  worried,  though  maybe  it  was  just  be-  cause  she  was  immersed  in  the  gum  boot.  I  never  seem  to  be  able  to  tell  about  this  sort  of  thing,  especially  with  Mama.  You  allow  for  pain  and  then  it  isn't  there.  And  then  you  don't  and  it  is.  &quot;I'm  sure  they're  botching  up  his  shots,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;He'll  never  go  on  with  them  on  his Own.  He  hates  admitting  he  has  rheu-  matism,  to  begin  with.&quot;  &quot;He's  not  on  his  own.  Myra.&quot;  She  ignored  this.  Or  maybe  couldn't  cope  with  hearing  the  name.  How  can  you  tell?  &quot;I  don't  suppose  Myra  would  stop  the  shots  just  because  you  started  him  on  them,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Surely  no  one  could  be  jealous  of  cortisone,  or  whatever  it  is.  It  wouldn't  be  human.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  move  his  arm  like  this?&quot;  She  was  inside  the  cupboard  and  invis-  ible,  and  did  a  mime  with  only  her  arm  showing  round  the  edge  of  the  door.  The  movement  looked  slow  and  diffi-  cult,  like  the  arm  of  a  man  in  privation  signalling  for  help.  The  imitation  was  so  graphic  that  it  was  hard  to  remember  the  pain  wasn't  my  mother's.  &quot;Easier  than  that.  More  like  this.&quot;  I  demonstrated,  but  she  didn't  look.  It  must  be  because  of  this  habit  of  not  al-  " b"ways  looking  that  she's  such  a  wretched  doctor.  &quot;Are  you  worried?&quot;  I  said.  She  went  into  a  golf-club  cupboard  at  the  very  back  of  the  house  and  roared,  &quot;Do  I  sound  worried?&quot;  WEEK  later  we  heard  that  Fa-  ther  had  had  a  stroke.  It  was  late  on  a  Saturday  night  and  I  had  just  got  some  baked  beans  into  her.  We  drove  up  to  [REDACTED]  in  fifty-three  minutes.  Usually  it  takes  an  hour  and  a  half.  We  kept  going  past  telephone  boxes  where  we  could  have  found  out  how  he  was  now,  but  it  was  frightening  to  spend  the  time  on  it.  We  found  him  alive  and  able  to  speak  a  little,  but  his  left  side  was  para-  lyzed.  Myra  was  leaning  over  his  bed  with  her  long  black  hair  swinging  near  his  face.  His  eyes  were  wild  and  staring  and  they  looked  like  the  openings  of  potholes.  He  seemed  to  want  Myra  to  hold  the  hand  that  was  paralyzed.  The  nurses  had  moved  his  watch  onto  his  right  wrist  so  that  he  might  look  at  it,  and  though  he  was  far  too  desperate  to  think  of  time  passing,  it  seemed  an  af-  fectionate  thing  to  have  done.  In  the  middle  of  everything,  the  composure  of  Myra's  head  and  voice  had  the  power  of  art.  She  has  a  devotion  about  what-  ever  she  happens  to  be  doing  that  you  can't  help  being  struck  by.  My  mother  is  probably  just  as  serious,  but  it  is  hard  to  see  it.  Mostly  she  seems  cranky  and  somehow  not  to  the  point.  For  instance,  she  kept  fussing  about  Papa's  hair,  his  beautiful  white  hair,  which  she  said  they  hadn't  washed,  though  he  had  been  in  hospital  not  severely  ill  for  a  week.  It  had  gone  a  little  yellow.  Yet  she  didn't  show  a  trace  of  response  to  his  illness,  or  even  to  what  the  nursing  sister  had  said  when  we  arrived.  &quot;Mrs.  Ponsonby  is  with  him,&quot;  the  woman  had  said.  &quot;You  won't  be  too  long.&quot;  Ponsonby  is  our  name,  Papa's  and  mine,  so  my  mother  was  suddenly  the  only  person  there  with  another  sur-  name.  Had  Papa  married  Myra  with-  out  telling  either  of  us?  Or  was  she  just  adopting  his  name  for  the  sake  of  the  conventionalism  of  hospitals?  Sometime  in  the  interminable  night  I  found  out  that  she  really  was  his  wife;  the  name  was  on  a  check  she  had  written  out.  So  Mama  had  no  rights.  While  Fa-  ther  was  on  the  danger  list,  the  sister  would  hardly  let  her  into  his  room,  be-  cause  she  didn't  fit  into  any  official  cate-  gory  of  relation.  She  stayed  in  a  waiting  room  for  most  of  the  next  dav.  But  that  night  Myra  was  to  sleep  in  the  hospital  on  a  camp  bed  and  there  was  nowhere  for  Mama  to  go.  She  took  a  room  at  the  Hyde  Park  Hotel.  It  was  close  to  the  Hospital  and  offensively  luxurious.  It  seemed  the  last  place  to  be  at  the  time,  but  somehow  we  failed  to  think  of  any-  where  else.  The  management's  cello-  phane-covered  basket  of  flowers  looked  obscene,  and  we  couldn't  turn  off  the  central  heating.  Mama  sat  up  all  night  in  a  mock  Louis  Quinze  armchair  and  I  slept  for  hours  on  the  brocade  bed-  spread  without  meaning  to.  When  I  woke  up  at  nine  in  the  morning,  she  had  disappeared.  I  went  to  the  hospital,  where  Father  was  a  lit-  tle  better,  and  they  said  that  she  had  come  and  gone,.  While  I  was  walking  back  to  the  hotel,  I  suddenly  looked  into  the  park  and  saw  her.  There  was  no  reason  to  have  looked  in  her  direc-  tion  at  all,  except  perhaps  that  she  was  willing  me  to  psychically,  in  spite  of  her  dislike  of  me  and  her  envy  of  the  en-  trance  I  had  to  Father's  room.  She  was  sitting  on  achair  far  away  in  the  cold,  staring  up  Rotten  Row,  where  a  few  riders  and  policemen  were  exercising  horses  at  a  trot  on  the  frozen  turf.  She  abused  private  patients  and  Fa-  ther  and  Myra  for  a  long  time.  It  was  a  scabrous  outburst  and  I  hated  her  for it.  But  I  scarcely  had  a  moment  to  en-  joy  an  interlude  of  indignation  and  con-  tempt  before  my  heart  started  banging  away  again  and  the  old  process  of  ter-  ror  and  attrition  in  her  presence  be-  gan.  She  was  crying-something  I  had  never  seen-and  I  had  no  idea  what  to  do  with  her.  She  looked  ugly.  Not  like  Myra,  who  cries  beautifully.  And  her  diatribe  was  vulgar  and  embar-  rassing,  however  much  I  said  to  myself  that  she  was  in  extremity  and  meant  something  else  by  it.  Then  she  said,  &quot;He  gave  Myra's  name  as  next  of  kin.&quot;  &quot;What  else  could  he  do?&quot;  &quot;He  could  have  said  you.&quot;  &quot;I  expect  it  was  nothing  more  than  the  hospital  keeping  the  letter  of  the  rules.&quot;  &quot;Itshould  have  been  me.&quot;  &quot;Mama,  she's  his  wife.&quot;  &quot;How  could  he.&quot;  &quot;It's  only  the  hospital  being  bureau-  cratic.  I  don't  understand  you.  You  could  have  been  married  to  him  a  hun-  dred  times  over.  That's  all  it's  about.  It  doesn't  mean  anything.&quot;  &quot;Belinda,  you  don't  understand.  You're  far  too  young  for  your  age.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  know  anything  about  me.  I've  been  living  with  someone  for  a  year.&quot;  She  didn't  notice  what  I  was  saying,  of  course.  It  was  a  stupid  time  to  have  told  her,  anyway.  &quot;By  every  right  it  should  have  been  me.  Twenty-two  years.&quot;  She  wept  furiously.  &quot;I  don't  see  why  you're  so  up-  " b"set.  You  never  wanted  those  rights.&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  talk  to  Ma-  tron.  He's  going  to  fall  out  of  bed  and  be  hurt.  They  won't  put  sides  on  his  bed.  It's  dan-  gerous.  I  told  them  to  last  night,  and  they  still  haven't  done  it.  I  know  he's  terrified  of  falling.&quot;  A  woman  on  a  horse  in  the  Row  had  ridden  up  to  a  nan-  ny  and  a  pram,  and  a  baby  was  being  lifted  out  of  the  pram  onto  the  saddle.  &quot;'That  horse  is  going  to  bolt,&quot;  Mama  said.  &quot;Look  at  it.  Women  are  so  silly.&quot;  She  real-  ly  meant  Myra,  I  suppose.  The  hard  thing  to  respect  about  Mama's  instinct  is  that  when  it  does  putter  into  life  at  all  it  is  so  infallibly  wrong.  The  woman  rode  very  slowly  down  the  track,  with  the  child  on  the  saddle  in  front  of  her,  and  the  horse  went  perfectly.  When  Papa  started  recov-  ering  and  Mama  was  still  be-  ing  pushed  outby  the  nurses,  I  went  to  Matron  in  my  turn.  What  I  had  to  say  seemed  in-  stantly  frivolous.  I  felt  a  boor  to  be  explaining  about  Mama's  position  and  saying  I  was  illegitimate  and  all  the  rest  of  it,  when  people  nearby  were  suffering  and  when  the  woman  behind  the  desk  obviously  had  reasons  you  couldn't  dismiss  for  having  decided  to  be  conventional  in  her  own  life.  I  ex-  pected  her  to  be  a  battle-axe,  but  there  was  something  attentive  and  benign  about  her.  She  listened  to  me  fora  time  with  her  head  hanging  like  a  big  dog's,as  if  something  were  awry  and  tiring  and  she  wished  to  start  afresh.  &quot;I'll  tell  the  nursing  staff  in  the  wing,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Mother's  a  doctor,  you  know.  She's  worried  about  him  not  having  sides  on  his  bed  in  case  he  falls  out.&quot;  &quot;'The  sister  is  one  of  the  best  we've  had.  She'd  have  put  sides  on  the  bed  if  they  were  necessary.&quot;  A  week  later  Father  was  talking  more  easily.  He  asked  me  not  to  let  Mama  see  him  without  me  or  Myra  there,  because  she  fussed  him.  A  nurse  who  was  in  the  room  when  he  said  it  must  have  told  the  sister,  because  Sister  herself  then  asked  Mama  not  to  go  in  again  for  the  moment,  I  dare-  say  with  a  little  triumph.  Mama  simply  nodded  and  said  she  anyway  preferred  not  to,  because  she  wasn't  happy  about  the  way  the  case  was  being  nursed.  The  atmosphere  was  immediately  impossible.  Mama  didn't  go  to  the  hospital  again,  but  made  reasons  for  herself  to  stay  in  [REDACTED]  all  the  same,  and  she  be-  haved  to  me  with  a  grim  undertone  of  jealousy.  She  was  far  too  stern  with  herself  to  pester  me  for  news,  yet  at  the  same  time  I  found  it  hard  to  grub  up  voluntarily  the  crumbs  she  depended  on.  Bearing  tales  of  Father  and  Myra  together  in  the  awful,  expensive  hospital  room  stuck  in  my  throat.  I  felt  perfidi-  ous  to  everyone.  &quot;Have  they  got  the  sides  on  the  bed?&quot;  Mama  asked  me  suddenly  one  day.  And  God  help  me,  I  lied  and  said  yes.  I  can't  think  why.  It  made  me  an  ally  of  Myra's,  of  hospital  politicking;  no  friend  to  Papa,  or  sense,  or  anything  crucial,  let  alone  to  my  plaguing  mother  and  her  perfectly  decent  anxiety.  The  sides  hed\xc2\xbb't  been  put  on  the  bed,  and  I  knew  quite  well  that  the  sister's  reason  was  obstinacy,  the  old  professional's  obstinacy  about  knowing  best.  She  was  taking  the  sort  of  risks  that  hospitals  get  away  with  all  the  time:  the  ones  that  people  never  suspect  of  being  as  random  as  most  other  impulses,  because  we  so  badly  want  to  believe  that  everything  in  medicine  happens  for  less  passing  rea-  sons  than  that.  When  someone  is  very  ill,  it's  not  pleasant  to  start  thinking  that  medicine  is  obviously  as  open  to  silliness  as,  say,  soldiering,  and  that  lives  can  be  altered  because  a  doctor  has  pranged  his  new  car,  or  a  sister  thinks  someone  is  trampling  on  her  rights.  Not  long  afterward,  Papa  did  fall  out  ofbed.  He  would  have  been  in  ter-  ror,  lying  there  half  paralyzed  on  the  brown  linoleum  and  not  able  to  make  himself  heard.  He  had  dreaded  all  his  life  being  a  cripple,  as  some  people  dread  lunacy.  The  first  time  he  fell,  he  was  all  right  and  only  chipped  a  bone.  Things  went  on.  Mother  didn't  know  about  it,  and  I  couldn't  tell  her.  The  doctors  ordered  sides  to  be  put  on  the  bed  and  Papa  felt  safer.  The  next  thing  that  happened  was  that  Mama  sent  him  a  parcel  of  the  throat  pastilles  he  liked  from  a  chemist  they  had  both  used  once,  and  Myra  cracked  up  about  it.  &quot;She  didn't  send  a  note,&quot;  she  said,  weeping  desperately  in  the  little  anteroom.  &quot;It  was  so  furtive  of  her.  I  don't  know  what  she's  playing  at.  I  don't  understand  anything.&quot;  She  sounded  just  like  Mama  about  the  next-  of-kin  form.  &quot;Mama  never  writes  notes,&quot;  I  said.  'Nobody  can  read  her  writing  except  chemists.  She's  not  playing  at  any-  thing.&quot;  &quot;Chemists.  Even  the  chemist  says  that  Bill's  going  back  to  her.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  Everything  seemed  fabricated.  Ma-  " b"ma  couldn't  have  told  a  chemist  such  a  thing.  And  Myra  surely  couldn't  have  catechized  a  man  in  a  dispen-  sary?  I  asked  again  what  she  meant,  but  she  shook  her  head.  And  then  when  I  asked  her  directly  if  she  had  really  gone  all  the  way  down  to  the  chemist  to  talk  to  him,  she  nodded,  and  cried  more,  and  said,  &quot;Everything's  been  shabby  ever  since  he  was  ill.  It's  out  of  control.  He  was  so  happy.  I  don't  know  what  to  do.&quot;  A  little  while  later,  Papa  fell  out  of  bed  for  the  second  time.  Again  the  sides  weren't  on  the  bed,  perhaps  be-  cause  the  nurses  were  still  cussed  on  principle,  or  perhaps  just  because  they  were  negligent,  and  again  I  couldn't  tell  Mama.  The  fall  fractured  Papa's  skull  and  he  died  in  a  few  hours.  I  TOOK  my  mother  down  to  stay  with  Grandfather,  who  was  unex-  pectedly  imaginative  enough  to  ask  her  to  come,  and  she  behaved  monstrously,  though  God  knows  she  had  the  unwit-  ting  right  to,  considering  that  her  halt-  ing  instinct  had  for  once  gone  so  hor-  ribly  home.  Marriage  licenses  and  throat  pastilles  and  chemist's  gossip  and  Sister's  little  victories-they  were  all  smoke  screens,  I  suppose,  but  they  added  up  to  a  very  powerful  fog  of  fictitiousness,  shifting  the  outlines  of  a  calamity,  and  while  we  were  in  it  no  one  had  the  nerve  to  tell  Mama  the  fact  that  was  owing  to  her.  I  suppose  a  lot  of  people  in  a  crisis  will  invent  decoy  reasons  for  feeling  mortally  threatened,  but  I  don't  really  under-  stand  why  Mama  was  the  only  one  who  seemed  to  have  been  any  good  at  seeing  that  the  real  threat  was  the  possibility  of  Papa's  death-not  who  had  said  what  to  a  chemist,  or  who  had  first  thought  of  putting  sides  on  a  hospital  bed.  Yet  then  I  remembered  the  jeal-  ousy  she  had  been  cast  into  herself  about  the  next-of-kin  form,  and  this  seemed  as  disguised  a  response  as  anyone's-to  fall  prey  to  the  pinch  of  that  particular  anguish  when  Papa  was  fatally  ill,  and  when  she  had  spent  a  good  part  of  her  life  delivering  small  wounds  to  him  by  refusing  to  get  married  for  the  sake  of  her  principles.  Next  weekend  Grandfather  said  that  Myra  was  coming  down.  Mama  looked  panicky  and  said  something  brutal  and  nerveless.  Almost  as  soon  as  she  got there  Myra  told  me  I  looked  gaunt,  which  Mama  naturally  interpreted  as  an  insult  to  her,  and  I  said  I  was  fine,  and  went  and  had  some  Bovril  with  the  cook.  Then  Mama  surprisingly  suggested  that  Myra  and  I  should  go  riding.  When  we  came  back  into  the  stable  yard,  Mama  was  waiting  for  us  in  the  rain.  Heaven  knows  how  long  she  had  been  there.  She  was  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  yard  on  the  cobbles.  Her  arms  looked  long,  like  a  monkey's,  and  they  hung  a  little  in  front  of  her.  Myra  got  off  her  horse  at  the  mounting  block  because  her  back  was  hurting-from  the  effort  of  lifting  Papa,  I  suppose.  Mama  made  a  drama  about  getting  out  of  the  horse's  way,  and  I  laughed.  There  hadn't  been  any  humor  anywhere  for  a  long  time,  not  from  anyone,  but  it  wasn't  a  par-  ticularly  funny  thing  to  have  chosen  as  a  start  and  I  saw  Myra  looking  at  me  sharply.  She  was  practically  on  Moth-  er's  side,  it  seemed.  Side,  ally.  You  take  my  side.  Side  of  the  bed.  We  had  sherry  indoors  quickly,  and  Mother's  face  looked  crusty  with  the  alcohol  after  the  cold.  Grandfather  was  in  his  usual  goldfish  state,  moving  round  people  without  speaking  and  avoiding  bumping  into  them  in  instinc-  tive  ways  of  his  own  while  he  read  a  bound  volume  of  PuncA,  and  then  standing  still  for  twenty  minutes  in  front  of  the  bay  window,  with  the  draft  waving  fishy  gills  of  white  hair.  After  he  had  been  there  for  a  time,  Myra  told  Mama  quietly  that  Father  had  died  for  exactly  the  reason  she  had  foreseen.  I  thought  it  generous  of  her.  Mother  looked  neither  triumphant  nor  grieved,  only  old.  I  started  to  cry,  and  Myra  got  up  and  put  her  arm  round  me.  And  then  Mama  swooped  and  hit  Myra  in  the  face,  and  folded  me  up  as  if  she  were  collapsing  a  camp  bed  and  put  me  on  her  lap,  grabbing  my  head  and  shoving  it  into  her  chest.  She  stroked  my  neck  and  it  wasn't  comforting  at  all.  I  felt  as  if  I  was  suffocating.  It  was  as  bad  as  being  inside  her  guts  again,  and  I  suddenly  remembered  all  too  accurately  what  the  first  imprisonment  had  been  like.  I  tried  laughing,  and  it  helped  a  certain  amount.  At  least  I  can  do  that  this  time,  though  the  prospect  of  a  second  escape  seems  poorer.  "