 b"ITS  going  to  bea  great  year  for    Republicans,&quot;  said  Daley  Unruh.  'They've  got  all  the  issues.&quot;  The  small,  worn  office  masked  the  fact  that  its  resident  is  one  of  the  most  powerful  men  in  the  Democratic  Party.  He  is  the  latest,  and  probably  the  last,  of  that  flagrantly  colorful  line  of  politi-  cal  bosses  who  could  deliver  a  county,  a  city,  and  even  an  entire  state  to  a  favored  candidate.  If  changing  times  and  growing  affluence  have  weakened  Daley  Unruh's  ability  to  insure  elec-  tion,  he  still  holds  an  iron  grip  on  the  Democratic  Party  in  his  state.  And  no  candidate  fora  Democratic  nomina-  tion,  from  mayor  to  President,  ever  fails  to  pay  him  deferential  court.  In-  formed  about  issues,  and  with  instinc-  tively  liberal  beliefs,  he  is,  fundamen-  tally,  a  technician  of  politics.  To  him,  a  good  politician  is  not  an  educator,  phi-  losopher,  or  statesman  but  a  man  who  wins  elections,  although  he  is  ready,  even  anxious,  to  admire  the  wise  use  of  power  by  the  man  who  knows  how  to  get  it.  He  has  spent  his  life  mastering  that  art.  And  he  judges  every  potential  candidate  by  the  relentless  standard  of  his  ability  to  command  money  for  his  campaign  and  votes  from  the  people.  When,  on  occasion,  a  particularly  naive  and  self-indulgent  candidate  protests  that  his  conscience  demands  a  destructively  unpopular  stand,  Daley  Unruh  has  a  brief,  all-inclusive  re-  sponse:  &quot;You  can't  do  it  if  you  don't  win  it.&quot;  He  rarely  gives  public  inter-going   views,  and  it  was  only  through  the  intervention  of  the  largest  single  con-  tributor  to  the  Democratic  Party  that  I  was  able  to  persuade  him  to  talk  about  the  1968  election.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Daley  Unruh  continued.  &quot;If  they  play  it  right,  they're  going  to  end  up  in  the  White  House.&quot;  &quot;How  can  you  say  that?&quot;  I  pro-  tested.  &quot;Isn't  it  almost  impossible  to  beat  an  incumbent  President?&quot;  &quot;That's  the  problem  with  most  poli-  ticians,&quot;  he  answered.  &quot;They're  like  generals-always  fighting  the  last  war.  There  are  no  unbreakable  rules  in  this  game.  Jack  Kennedy  couldn't  win  be-  cause  he  was  too  young  and  a  Catholic.  They  even  said  his  wife  wouldn't  bea  good  first  lady-too  glamorous.  A  few  years  ago,  everyone  was  sure  it  was  almost  impossible  for  a  senator  to  be  nominated;  now  the  Senate's  the  best  place  to  be.  Today,  being  a  mayor  is  supposed  to  be  a  political  dead  end,  but  just  watch  Lindsay.  The  rules  are  only  a  summary  of  what's  happened  before.  The  trick  is  in  trying  to  see  what's  going  to  happen  next.  Now,  an  incum-  bent  President  has  a  lot  of  advantages.  He  gets  the  front  pages  whenever  he  wants.  He  can  do  things  to  help  himself,  from  starting  a  war  to  proposing  a  pov-  erty  program.  But  the  mass  media  can  make  his  challenger  a  national  figure  in  a  month,  and  if  things  aren't  going  well-and  they're  not  right  now  -he  has  to  take  the  blame.  After  all,  if  Ike  bad  run  against  Harry  Truman  in   instead  of  Dewey,  it's  almost  certain  that  he  would  have  won.  Of  course,  the  Republicans  don't  have  another  Eisenhower.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  the  [REDACTED]  war  might  defeat  Johnson?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;That  hurts,&quot;  he  replied,  &quot;but  not  enough  to  beat  him  by  itself.  It's  some-  thing  else,  something  more  personal.  You  see,  people  just  don't  like  him.  You  can  go  around  the  country  and  you  just  don't  meet  anyone  who's  en-  thusiastic  about  Johnson.  In  his  worst  days,  Truman  had  a  hard  core  of  real  supporters,  Roosevelt  had  haters,  but  lots  of  lovers.  But  even  people  who  are  going  to  support  Johnson  aren't  happy  about  him.  There's  this  vague  sense  of  suspicion  and  distrust,  which  is  very  deeply  rooted.  Peopletend  to  vote  against  someone  rather  than  for  some-  one,  and  I  think  they  could  really  turn  on  the  President.  He  still  does  pretty  well  in  the  polls,  but  that's  because  he's  not  running  against  anyone.  Those  other  fellows  are  just  names.  When  they  have  a  candidate  who  is  on  the  front  pages  every  day  and  on  television,  then  it'll  be  a  question  of  who  do  you  like  best  and  who  do  you  trust  the  most.  Johnson  will  have  a  tough  time  in  that  kind  of  competition.  In  fact,  as  of  now,  if  the  Republicans  run  a  good  campaign,  I'd  say  he  doesn't  have  much  of  a  chance.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  Isaid,  &quot;the  Republi-  cans  will  have  to  show  how  they  pro-  pose  to  end  the  war.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;That's  the  mistake  they're  all  making.  That's  what  I  mean  by  throw-  ing  it  away.  Take  Rom-  ney.  He  reads  in  all  the  papers  that  he  has  to  have  a  policy  for  Viet-  nam,  and  the  next  thing  you  know  he's  way  out  on  a  limb  with  some  foolish  proposal.  After  all,  the  minute  you  come  up  with  specific  ideas  you  immediately  alienate  a  lot  of  people.  If  you  want  to  escalate,  you  lose  the  doves.  If  you  want  to  stop  bombing,  you  lose  the  hawks.  #  Worst  of  all,  it.puts  you  on  the  defensive.  We  Democrats  are  a  lot  smarter  about  fighting  the  issues  than  the  Re-  publicans.  Look  what  we     Api     did  to  Goldwater  on  that  atomic  thing.  He  had  to  spend  all  his  time  assuring  people  he  " b"wasn't  going  to  blow  up  the  world.  A  Republican  candidate  with  a  specific  program  for  [REDACTED]  is  going  to  end  up  having  to  defend  it  at  every  whistle-  stop  and  press  conference.  He  can  never  prove  it'll  work,  because  he  can't  speak  for  the  Vietcong.  We  can  have  a  dozen  generals  imply  that  he's  being  naive  and  doesn't  understand  the  war.  Not  only  that,  but  Johnson  can  cut  the  ground  out  from  under  him.  If  he  says  he'll  stop  the  bombing,  we  can  stop  it  before  the  election  and  say,  'See?  It  doesn't  help.&quot;  If  he  wants  to  escalate,  we  can  try  that.  It's  one  of  the  ad-  vantages  of  being  an  incumbent.  So  the  issue  will  become  who's  got  the  better  program,  him  or  Johnson?  He'll  end  up  protesting  and  explaining  himself  when  his  only  hope  is  to  attack.&quot;  &quot;What  should  he  say?&quot;  I  asked  re-  spectfully.  &quot;It's  simple,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  he  needs  is  the  truth.  He  should  just  say,  'We  are  in  a  war  that  is  killing  556e6974656420537461746573ns  by  the  tens  of  thousands,  costing  twen-  ty-five  billion  a  year,  and  making  it  impossible  for  us  to  take  care  of  our  own  problems.  It's  gone  on  for  six  years  and  there  is  no  end  in  sight.  Now,  I  have  no  magic  formula  for  ending  this  war.  There  aren't  any  magic  for-  mulas.  After  all,  no  one  can  guarantee  how  the  enemy  will  respond  to  any-  thing  we  do.  However,  this  Adminis-  tration  has  had  five  years  to  resolve  the  war  in  [REDACTED],  and  all  they've  produced  is  a  bigger  and  more  bloody  struggle.  There  is  no  indication  they  can  do  any  better  in  the  next  four  years.  I  can't  guarantee  peace,  but  I  can  guarantee  you  that  I  will  give  every  ounce  of  wisdom  and  energy  I  possess  to  ending  this  war  quickly  and  with  honor.  I  offer  you  hope  and  a  fresh  start  against  a  record  of  proven  failure.&quot;  You  see,  that  way  it's  him  against  Johnson;  it's  who's  the  better  man?  It's  a  lot  firmer  ground  than  matching  his  program  against  John-  son's  program.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  all  he  has  to  say?&quot;  I  asked  dubiously.  &quot;That's  [REDACTED];  Daley  Unruh  replied.  &quot;Essentially.  Of  course,  the  editorial  writers  and  columnists  won't  like  it,  al-  though  more  will  come  around  than  you  think.  After  all,  itis  the  truth.  There  aren't  any  magic  formulas.  And,  any-  way,  editorials  don't  win  elections.  Very  few  people  pay  any  attention  to  news-  paper  opinions,  and  most  of  those  who  do  have  already  turned  against  John-  son.  Of  course,  the  candidate  should  indicate  he  is  against  more  escalation  that  doesn't  get  anywhere.  Just  that  kind  of  simple,  vague  assurance  is probably  enough  to  split  the  Demo-  cratic  Party.  And  they've  got  to  split  the  Democrats  to  win.  That's  why  we  all  hope  they'll  nominate  a  real  hawk,  someone  who'll  scare  people.  Another  thing.  A  lot  can  happen  in  the  next  year  that  could  make  any  position  you  take  now  look  pretty  foolish-any  spe-  cific  position,  that  is.  The  only  thing  that  could  invalidate  what  I  suggest  would  be  if  the  war  was  over,  and  then  it  wouldn't  matter.&quot;  &quot;So  you  do  think  [REDACTED]  will  be  the  big  issue,&quot;  I  observed.  &quot;Sure,  it's  important,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  it  would  be  foolish  to  concentrate  on  it  too  much.  The  biggest  issue  is  John-  son  himself.  You  can't  come  right  out  and  say  the  President  is  untrustworthy  or  incompetent.  That  just  gives  him  sympathy.  Now,  in  the  old  days  you  could  do  it,  but  we're  all  gentlemen  today.  You  just  look  like  a  hoodlum  yourself  when  you  insult  someone  on  television.  You  don't  call  names  direct-  ly.  You  do  it  indirectly,  through  the  issues.  You  don't  discuss  the  issues  for  their  own  sake-after  all,  who  knows  anything  about  them,  anyway?-but  they're  a  way  to  get  at  the  man.&quot;  &quot;Isn't  that  awfully  cynical?&quot;  I  ob-  jected.  &quot;Not  at  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;You  can't  expect  the  average  guy  to  know  what  to  do  about  our  cities  or  NATO  or  civil  rights.  But  he  does  have  a  pretty  good  feeling  for  the  way  things  are  going.  And  on  the  whole  he  wants  to  move  in  the  right  direction  and  do  the  decent  thing  and  what's  best  forthe  country.  That's  what  elected  Kennedy.  He  also  gets  a  pretty  good  feeling  for  a  man's  character-television  helps  a  lot-and  that's  the  most  important  thing  in  a  President.  Once  a  man's  elected,  all  you  can  count  on  is  his  character  and  general  sense  of  purpose.  Specific  pro-  grams  are  out  of  date  in  a  month.  That  way,  people  in  general  are  a  lot  smarter  than  you  guys  who  write  about  politics.  You're  too  involved  in  tech-  nicalities.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;how  do  you  get  at  Johnson  through  the  issues?&quot;  &quot;Attack,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  the  se-  cret.  Attack  your  opponent's  weak-  nesses.  Don't  play  to  his  strength.  Look.  Just  get  out  there  and  tell  people  what's  happening  to  the  United  [REDACTED].  You  can  say,  'Here  we  are,  the  most  pow-  erful  nation  in  the  world  and  once  the  most  respected.  Now  the  President  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  can't  visit  Latin  [REDACTED]  or  Asia  or  Africa  forfear  of  violent  demonstrations.  Hell,  he  can't  even  go  to  [REDACTED].  The  European  alli  ance  is  falling  apart.  NATO  is  dying.  Hardly  a  single  one  of  our  traditional  allies  supports  'our  policies  or  sympa-  thizes  with  our  objectives.  We  are  los-  ing  influence  and  prestige  in  every  part  of  the  world.  It's  never  been  lower.  We're  involved  in  an  endless,  costly  war  that  no  one  knows  how  to  end.  Our  cities  are  filled  with  violence  and  revolution.  We  are  failing  to  meet  al-  most  all  our  domestic  problems,  from  poverty  to  education.  Taxes  are  going  up.  Young  people,  the  hope  of  the  fu-  ture,  are  turning  away  from  the  ideal  " b"of  public  service.  Five  years  ago,  the  biggest  things  in  colleges  were  the  Peace  Corps  and  civil  rights.  Now  it's  smoking  marijuana.  [REDACTED]  is  adrift  and  purposeles-filled  with  aimless  discontent.  The  country  destined  to  be  the  hope  of  the  world  hardly  knows  what  it  stands  for  anymore.  But  it's  not  too  late.  The  greatness  and  ideal-  ism  and  potential  for  progress  are  still  there.  All  we  need  is  the  leadership.  &quot;  He  paused.  &quot;Hell,  it's  the  Kennedy  campaign  all  over  again,  only  with  five  times  the  force.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  believe  all  that?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;That's  not  the  question,&quot;  he  an-  swered  abruptly,  and  for  the  first  time  a  note  of  irritation  came  into  his  voice.  &quot;The  voters  will  believe  it  if  the  man  who  says  it  sounds  as  if  Ae  does.  Of  course,  that's  just  an  outline.  You  have  to  elaborate  all  of  the  points,  systemati-  cally  and  factually.  And  you  should  in-  dicate  some  of  the  things  you  are  going  to  do.  Not  in  order  to  come  up  with  a  detailed  or  comprehensive  program-  which  is  meaningless,  anyway-but  just  enough  to  give  people  some  confi-  dence  that  you  really  understand  the  problems  and  have  some  ideas.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  the  Republicans  will  do  that?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  why  I  think  they  may  throw  it  away.  It's  strange  about  Republicans.  I  sup-  pose  they're  so  used  to  defending  them-  selves  that  they  really  don't  know  how  to  be  on  the  offensive.  It's  even  deeper  than  that.  Republicans,  especially  moderate  Republicans,  tend  to  be  a  little  over-  bred,  like  Scranton.  I  guess  that  by  the  time  you  get  to  be  a  big  Republican  you've  spent  so  much  time  trying  to  be  a  member  of  some  club  or  other,  have  everyone  like  you  and  think  you're  safe,  that  you've  lost  an  edge,  become  timid  and  restrained.  It's  all  a  question  of  instincts.  Suppose  you  say  something  unpleasant  about  someone  and  he  says  something  unpleasant  back.  Some  guys  want  to  go  over  and  shake  hands,  and  some  take  another  punch.  That's  the  difference  between  winners  and  losers.  Now,  the  kind  of  campaign  I'm  talk-  ing  about  will  be  tough  and  mean-not  dirty,  nothing  about  personal  life  and  no  name-calling,  but  tough.  A  lot  of  guys  will  write  that  you're  overstating  your  case,  exaggerating,  hitting  below  the  belt.  You've  got  to  ignore  them.  You've  got  to  be  able  to  tell  the  dif-  ference  between  a  mistake  thatgets  you  in  real  trouble  and  the  automatic,  unimportant  reflexes  of  newspaper  edi-  tors.  The  important  thing  is  to  stand  for  something  and  not  to  be  bland.  Ike  was  a  little  bland,  although  he  also  ran  against  a  war.  But  he  was  unique,  and  anyway  he  wasn't  exactly  running  against  a  gut  fighter.  It's  what  got  Romney  into  trouble.  People  weren't  disturbed  that  he  didn't  have  an  an-  swer  for  [REDACTED].  It  was  all  that  hesi-  tation  and  wavering.  It's  not  what  they  want  in  a  leader.  He  would  have  been  a  lot  better  off  if  he'd  said  he  was  not  yet  a  candidate  but  the  Governor  of  [REDACTED]  and  concerned  with  state  issues.  He  would  speak  about  [REDACTED]  when  he  thought  it  was  appropriate  to  do  so.  After  two  days  of  being  dis-  gruntled,  they  would  have  left  him  alone  and  he  wouldn't  have  looked  like  a  guy  who  didn't  know  his  own  mind.  Of  course,  the  guys  on  the  right,  like  Reagan  and  Nixon,  they've  got  a  little  steel.  But  they've  got  the  wrong  formula  for  this  election.  They  might  win,  of  course.  If  things  keep  on  the  way  they're  going,  anyone  will  beat  Johnson.  But  if  we  Democrats  have  a  little  luck  we  can  lick  a  real  conserv-  ative.  It's  a  question  again  of  playing  to  your  opponent's  weakness.  A  guy  who  seems  safe  on  economic  issues,  if  he's  not  a  wild  man  on  other  things,  like  Goldwater,  is  going  to  keep  all  the  regular  Republican  vote.  Those  busi-  nessmen  will  run  right  back.  Any  Democrat  who  counts  on  support  from  businessmen  and  conservatives  is  mak-  ing  a  real  mistake.  Sure,  with  a  guy  like  Goldwater,  a  real  radical,  a  sort  of  fanatic  who  might  upset  the  whole  sys-  tem,  they're  going  to  desert.  When  you're  a  conservative,  especially  an  enlightened  conservative,  you  like  things  the  way  they  are  plus  maybe  a  little  more  profit.  That's  what  you're  com-  fortable  with,  and  you  like  being  com-  fortable.  But  given  a  regular  Repub-  lican,  the  conservatives  will  go  straight  into  his  pocket.  That's  home.  We  don't  need  them,  anyway.  But  if  we  play  up  to  them  we  might  lose  the  people  we  really  need.  I  don't  mean  we  ought  to  scare  them-nothing  radical.  It's  enough  if  they  end  up  feeling  they'd  prefer  the  Republican  but  if  Johnson  wins  it's  not  so  bad.  And  then,  if  the  Republican  is  sensible  on  [REDACTED]  and  wants  to  do  something  about  things  like  civil  rights  and  education,  why,  he'll  split  the  Democratic  Party.  If  there  ever  was  a  party  ready  to  be  split  it's  ours.  With  Wallace  to  neutralize  the  South-or  even  if  he  doesn't-the  election  will  be  won  in  the  big  states,  And  that's  the  formula  for  winning  them.  It's  so  obvious,  you'd  have  to  be  a  fool  not  to  see  it.  Luckily  for  us,  the  Republican  Party  has  been  known  to  be  foolish.  It's  almost  a  habit.&quot;  &quot;Who  can  do  it?&quot;I  asked.  &quot;Which  Republican  would  be  the  strongest  can-  didate?&quot;  &quot;There  are  a  lot  of  possibilities,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Nixon  and  Reagan  would  be  weakest,  and  they're  the  ones  we  want  to  run  against.  We'll  try  and  build  them  up  in  the  next  several  months.  Nixon  would  be  the  best  for  us.  People  are  suspicious  of  him,  too,  and  that  would  tend  to  neutralize  Johnson's  biggest  weakness.  Also,  he's  been  around  too  long  and  he  just  can't  excite  people  anymore.  Reagan  would  scare  the  liberals,  and  a  lot  of  others,  He'd  act  like  a  moderate,  of  course,  but  the  impression  is  there;  and  these  fellows  greatly  overestimate  what  a  public-  relations  firm  can  do  in  a  national  elec-  tion.  It's  not  like  running  against  Pat  Brown.  We'd  throw  his  old  statements  " b"and  attitudes  at  him  every  day.  We  might  even  be  able  to  make  his  position  the  issue,  rather  than  Johnson's  record.  As  for  [REDACTED],  he  wants  it  so  bad  he  can  taste  it,  but  he's  in  a  tough  spot.  He  can't  go  after  it.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose,&quot;  I  interrupted,  &quot;that's  because  he'd  be  regarded  as  a  spoiler,  splitting  the  moderate  vote  between  him  and  Romney,  and  helping  the  con-  servatives.&quot;  &quot;That's  part  of  it,  but  not  the  most  important  part,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Anybody  who's  trying  to  get  nominated  wants  to  spoil  everyone  else's  chances.  That's  what  it's  about.  It's  also  something  a  little  more  subtle.  [REDACTED]'s  already  tried  a  couple  of  times  and  didn't  make  it.  Now,  the  line  between  being  serious  and  foolish  is  an  awful  thin  one  in  politics.  But  once  you  cross  it  you  never  come  back.  It  can  take  a  long  time,  like  Stassen,  or  you  can  do  it  in  a  month,  like  Scranton.  Nixon's  come  close,  but  he's  been  lucky,  and  also  peo-  ple  are  afraid  of  him,  so  they  find  it  hard  to  laugh.  Anyway,  he's  done  a  lot  of  silly  talking,  but  he  hasn't  made  any  big,  foolish  errors.  He's  looked  dumb  and  mean,  butnot  futile.  Looking  fu-  tile,  that's  death.  Now  if  [REDACTED]  sud-  denly  started  campaigning  again,  with  all  those  pictures,  eating  hot  dogs  and  shaking  hands,  it  would  look  like  an  old  movie.  People  might  just  start  to  laugh:  'It's  him  again.  Also,  if  he  did  get  out  in  front,  it  would  bring  all  his  enemies  out  of  the  woodwork,  and  he's  got  a  lot  of  them.  If  they  had  a  few  months,  they  could  probably  shoot  him  down.  So  he's  got  to  lie  low  and  hope  no  one  else  sews  it  up  in  the  primaries.  Then  the  Convention  might  go  to  him.  The  trouble  with  that  strategy  is  that  any  half-decent  candidate  can  take  the  pri-  maries,  and  even  if  he  doesn't,  those  conservatives  hate  [REDACTED],  so  they'll  probably  go  to  someone  else,  like  Percy.     I  think  [REDACTED]'s  at  his  peak  right  now.  Once  campaigning  begins  and  the  other  fellows  are  on  the  front  pagesevery  day,  he'll  start  to  fade.  And  the  weaker  Johnson  looks,  the  more  Rockefeller's  chances  go  down.  He  might  get  lucky,  of  course,  and  he'd  be  an  awfully  strong  candidate.  Now,&quot;  he  continued,  warming  to  his  subject,  &quot;any  one  of  the  others  could  pull  it  off.  Romney  could,  and  probably  will,  if  he  runs  a  smart  campaign.  He's  been  weak  so  far,  but  it's  early.  Some  of  the  others  would  probably  be  even  stronger,  like  Percy.  And  if  someone  like  Hatfield  or  Lindsay  could  get  the  nomination,  they'd  be  the  toughest  of  all.  Prob-  ably  unbeatable.  You  see  a  guy  like  Lindsay-I  don't  know  how  bright  he  is,  but  he's  tough.  That's  why  it's  hard  to  believe  he's  a  Republican,  but  I  guess  those  fellows  in  the  New  York  organization  screwed  things  up  so  bad-  ly  a  bright  young  guyhad  to  be  a  Re-  " b"publican  to  get  ahead.  Lucky  for  them.  Bad  for  us.&quot;  &quot;But  they  can't  be  nominated,&quot;  I  objected.  &quot;I'm  not  so  sure,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;Now,  I'm  no  expert  on  Republican  Party  politics,  but  it  seems  to  me  the  old  rules  are  gone  there,  too.  It's  awfully  nice  to  run  around  getting  endorsements  from  governors  and  businessmen.  That's  the  way  it's  always  been  done.  But  it  doesn't  mean  what  it  used  to.  Ken-  nedy  showed  us  that,  and  Goldwater  proved  it  to  the  Republicans.  This  nomination  is  really  up  for  grabs.  Any  man  who  goes  in  and  sweeps  most  of  the  primaries  is  going  to  make  it.  Re-  member,  even  Goldwater  probably  couldn't  have  been  nominated  if  he  didn't  win  in  [REDACTED].  Now,  these  fellows  like  Percy  or  Hatfheld  aren't  too  well  known  in  the  important  pri-  mary  states  like  New  Hampshire  and  [REDACTED].  But  neither  is  Romney.  Lindsay  may  be  better  known  than  any  of  them.  In  fact,  it's  probably  an  asset  not  to  be  too  well  known  this  time.  Peo-  ple  are  looking  for  a  fresh  face.  They  don't  want  the  same  old  tired  figures.  Also,  it's  important  not  to  have  taken  too  many  clear  positions,  so  that  different  kinds  of  people  can  reasonably  hope  you'll  be  their  kind  of  President.  That  helped  Kennedy.  Why,  two  of  the  Re-  publicans  that  ran  best  against  an  in-  cumbent  President  in  this  century-  and  their  two  best  men-were  Charles  Evans  Hughes  and  Wendell  Willkie.  And  neither  one  had  ever  been  in  na-  tional  politics  before.  Now,  if  some-  one  like  that  would  just  take  the  plunge,  he  might  pull  it  off.  He  could  just  announce,  'I  know  I  have  little  chance  to  be  nominated,  but  this  is  a  time  when  a  man  has  to  be  indifferent  to  considerations  of  his  political  future.  The  issues  of  1968  are  the  most  im-  portant  this  country  has  ever  faced.  They  involve  the  future  welfare  of  [REDACTED].  I  intend  to  bring  those  issues  to  the  people,  debate  them,  and  do  everything  I  can,  as  a  citizen  as  well  as  a  candidate,  to  reverse  the  present  dis-  astrous  drift.&quot;  It's  a  gamble.  But  people  are  looking  for  a  hero.  They  want  a  man  who  really  stands  for  something,  who  shows  he  has  some  courage  and  sense,  and  who  actsas  if  he  believes  in  them.  Of  course,  it  also  takes  money  and  organization,  but  mostly  it  takes  a  candidate.  I  think  someone  like  that  would  find  help  and  support  in  the  most  unexpected  places.  And  one  of  the  ad-  vantages  of  not  being  an  obvious  can-  didate,  a  front-runner,  is  that  even  if  you  lose,  if  you  make  a  decent  show-  ing  you're  way  up  front  for  the  next  one.  Or  even  a  Vice-Presidential  can-  didate  this  time.  Look  at  Kefauver.  And  all  of  these  fellows  have  a  lot  more  on  the  ball,  and  are  a  lot  more  acceptable  than  he  was.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  any  of  them  will  do  it?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I  doubt  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;After  all,  they're  surrounded  by  people  who  tell      them  it's  too  much  of  a  gamble,  they're  not  known,  and  so  on.  They  read  the  newspapers  and  see  that  no  one  takes  them  seriously,  or  that  they're  not  even  mentioned  as  a  possibility.  They  don't  understand  how  easy  it  is  to  change  that;  after  all,  all  you  fellows  do  is  reflect  other  people's  ambitions.  Let  them  begin  to  make  some  serious,  thoughtful  speeches  on  national  prob-  lems,  talk  to  columnists,  write  some  articles,  and  soon  everyone  would  be-  gin  to  take  them  seriously.  It  takes  some  skill,  and  a  good  staff.  It  also  takes  a  certain  amount  of  guts.  All  politicians  have  to  be  cautious  most  of  the  time,  but  once  in  a  while  you  have  to  take  a  big  chance.  Knowing  when  that  time  has  come  is  what  separates  the  great  ones  from  the  others.  I  tell  you,  the  big  prize  is  hanging  right  up  there  ready  to  be  grabbed  by  the  first  man  who  fights  his  way  to  it.  It  can't  just  be  given  out  by  the  big  boys,  like  in  the  old  days.  Especially  this  year.  The  kind  of  edge  that  men  like  Nixon  and  Romney  have  over  the  others  is  so  small  it  can  be  overcome  in  a  few  months.  And  when  you  get  to  New  Hampshire  and  [REDACTED]  and  Ore-  gon,  you'll  find  no  one  is  really  estab-  lished  in  people's  minds  as  the  person  they  want  for  President.  They'll  vote  for  the  candidate  who  looks  best  to  them  on  the  basis  of  what  they  see  and  read  from  next  January  lst  till  Elec-  tion  Day.  And  no  convention  is  going  to  deny  anyone  who  takes  those  pri-  maries.&quot;  Daley  Unruh  stopped,  sat  silent  for  a  moment,  and  then  smiled.  &quot;Welk  I  hope  you  won't  use  any  of  this.  After  all,  I'm  not  in  business  to  help  the  Republicans  win  elections.  Maybe  we  better  get  on  with  the  formal  in-  terview.&quot;  &quot;Fine,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Well,  Mr.  Unruh,  how  would  you  assess  the  chances  for  the  Democratic  Party  in  1968?&quot;  &quot;We'll  have  a  tough  fight,&quot;  he  re-  plied,  &quot;but  I  am  confident  of  President  Johnson's  re\xe2\x82\xaclection.  People  know  that  he's  doing  the  best  job  any  man  could  do,  and  no  one  has  ever  made  a  greater  effort  to  improve  the  welfare  of  this  country.  He  has  resisted  Communist  expansion  abroad  and  proposed  a  do-  mestic  program  of  unparalleled  sweep  and  effectiveness.  The  people  will  re-  ward  that  performance  at  the  polls.&quot; "