 b"A VOICE  is  singing  in  the  land,  strong  and  clear  and  true.  Its  timbre  echoes  the  high-  piled  cities,  the  very  soil  and  waters  of  [REDACTED];  its  rhythms  reflect  the  pulse-  beat  of  this  land.  Somehow  it  has  reached  the  secret  place  in  each  ofus  where  we  truly  live.  The  possessor  of  this  voice,  and  the  creator  of  the  dis-  tinctively  556e6974656420537461746573n  songs  it  sings,  has  been  striding  like  a  colossus  across  the  world  of  folk  music  these  past  few  months,  his  records  outselling  all  others  in  the  field,  his  concerts-at  colleges,  arenas,  hip  night  clubs,  and  folk  festi-  vals-drawing  unprecedented  crowds.  Only  once  in  a  decade  does  a  musical  figure  generate  the  electricity  of  an  Arthur  Moultrie  Gerstenson,  known  to  an  idolatrous  world  as  Art  M.  Gerstenson.  The  nature  of  Gerstenson's  music  and  its  impact  on  our  youth-his  status  as  the  current  rallying  point  for  rejec-  tion  of  the  System-are  too  well  known  for  us  to  rehash  here.  What  we  need  at  this  point  is  a  hard  look  behind  the  Gerstenson  saga  at  Ger-  stenson  the  man.  Because  of  his  dili-  gently  maintained  public  image,  the  truth  is  difficult  to  pinpoint.  In  the  gray,  conformist  world  of  folk  music,  made  up  as  itis  of  alienated  wanderers,  Cree  496e646961ns,  leathered-up  motorbikers,  and  check-shirted,  open-throated,  bell-bot-  tomed  free  souls,  all  indistinguishable  from  each  other,  Art  M.  Gerstenson  stands  out  like  the  Eddystone  Light.  When  the  white  spotlights  pick  him  out  as  he  strides  to  the  microphone,  the  ef-  fect  on  his  audience  is  akin  to  being  poleaxed.  A  few  carping  voices  have  been  raised  against  the  studied  theatri-  cality  of  his  dress-the  inevitable  blue  or  dark-gray  sharkskin  three-button  suit,  the  white-on-white  broadcloth  shirt,  the  invariable  rep  or  foulard  four-  in-hand,  the  almost-too-much  black  wing-tip  [REDACTED]  Character  shoes-but  there  is  no  gainsaying  the  emotional  impact  of  the  costume,  its  shout  of  defiance.  And  yet  it  is  Gerstenson's  fiercest  admirers  who  are  most  embarrassed  by  his  public  posture,  who  say  that  a  man  with  Art  M.  Gerstenson's  voice  and  message  has  no  need  for  such  tricks  as  his  ostentatiously  flaunted  high-school  class  ring,  or  his  hairstyle,  which  sug-  gests,  particularly  behind  the  ears,  that  the  second-best  barber  in  Ottumwa,  [REDACTED],  has  laid  on  a  little  heavily  with  the  electricclipper.  Defenders  against  these  charges  refer  critics  to  the  con- " b"trolled  fury  in  the  opening  lines  of  the  song  Gerstenson  fans  look  on  as  the  ultimate  cop-out,  &quot;A  Man  and  His  Matrix&quot;:  The  matrix  of  a  man  is  his  momma,  His  momma  and  his  pop  and  his  school,  For  the  parent  who'll  deflate  a  boy  And  the  teacher  who  makes  math  a  joy  Are  a  man's  basic  tool,  all  he  needs  to  rule-  All  a  man  ever  needs  to  rule.  Gerstenson's  life  story,  as  it  unfolds  in  the  official  biography  his  managers  foist  on  eager  journalists,  is  such  a  mishmash  of  the  wildly  improbable  and  the  borderline  fantasy  as  to  raise  the  suspicion  that  it  was  manufactured  from  whole  cloth  with  an  eye  to  in-  stant  notoriety  at  a  time  when  Ger-  stenson  was  struggling  for  recognition  in  a  keenly  competitive  field.  Accord-  ing  to  this  document,  he  was  born  twenty-six  years  ago  in  Schenectady,  New  York,  of  Myron  D.  and  Flora  A.  Gerstenson,  and  that  his  father  was  an  insurance  salesman  who,  in  1946,  came  close  to  writing  half  a  million  dollars'  worth  of  policies,  and  that  young  Arthur's  first  trouble  occurred  in  his  ninth  year,  when  his  family  moved  to  [REDACTED]  in  the  middle  of  the  winter  school  term.  With  the  help  of  an  understanding  school  administration,  Arthur  overcame  this  trauma  suffi-  ciently  so  that  by  May  he  almost  made  the  honor  roll.  We  are  now  asked  to  believe  that  Arthur  ground  through  high  school  with  an  81.2  average,  and  served  as  assistant  manager  of  the  basketball  team  and,  for  two  semesters,  as  an  ad  salesman  for  the  senior  year-  book.  Hurrying  us  past  the  dizzying  array  of  &quot;facts&quot;  cited  above,  the  official  biog-  raphy  plunges  ahead  to  brief  descrip-  tions  of  summers  at  the  family  bunga-  lowon  Schroon  Lake,  where  young  Arthur  mastered  the  art  of  table  tennis  and  made  several  attempts  at  water-  skiing.  Then  we  are  led  on  to  the  next  crisis-the  question,  at  Cornell,  of  whether  to  major  in  Romance  Lan-  guages  or  Hotel  Management,  and  the  ultimate  decision  to  opt  for  Marketing.  The  Cornell  years,  we  are  told,  were  fruitful  ones  for  Arthur,  filled  with  activity-French  Club,  intramural  sports,  and  again,  as  in  high  school.  serving  as  ass'stant  manager  of  the  bas-  ketball  team.  And  itis  at  Cornell  that  we  get  our  first  inkling  of  the  musical  genius  Art  M.  Gerstenson  was  to  be-  come-not  yet  as  a  singer  but  as  second  triangle  in  the  fine  Big  Red  marching  band.  After  his  graduation  (to  follow  this   " b"way-out  document  to  its  conclusion),  we  have  Arthur's  employment  by  Fen-  ner  &amp;  Greaves,  of  [REDACTED],  marketing  consultants,  and  his  absorption,  very  soon  thereafter,  in  twice-weekly  sing-  ing  lessons  to  ease  the  disappointment  of  his  rejection  by  the  draft  because  of  a  deviated  septum.  Six  months  later,  we  are  told,  there  came  the  dramatic  moment  that  proved  his  career's  turning  point.  While  attending  an  engagement  party  for  a  co-worker,  he  raised  his  voice  with  an  informal  group  gathered  at  the  piano.  After  a  few  moments,  a  fellow-employee,  Jonathan  Hummel,  remarked-and  Arthur  remembers  the  words  exactly-&quot;Arthur,  did  you  ever  think  of  taking  up  singing  professional-  ly?&quot;  The  rest  is  history,  except  for  Arthur's  decision,  early  in  his  career,  to  write  his  own  songs.  The  pertinent  quote  in  the  official  biography  reads  as  follows:  &quot;  I  soon  realized  that  if  I  pro-  vided  my  own  material  I  could  cut  down  on  the  dispersal  of  royalties  from  record  sales,  and  since  I  had  always  been  a  B-plus  student  in  English  (with  seven  college  credits  in  composition  ),  I  thought  I  would  take  a  crack  at  it.&quot;  &quot;  JOURNALISTIC  honesty  compels  us  to  ask  whether  this  startling  document  squares  with  the  facts.  Diligent  re-  search  indicates,  alas,  that  it  probably  does  not.  At  least  one  person  who  has  been  privileged  to  come  upon  Art  M.  Gerstenson  when  he  was  not  wearing  sharkskin  trousers  and  clocked  short  socks  reports  seeing,  at  knee  and  instep,  the  telltale  knobs  of  a  veteran  surfer.  A  reporter  who  traced  down  the  rec-  ordswears  to  have  photostats  proving  that  Gerstenson  dropped  out  of  school,  beginning  in  kindergarten,  no  fewer  than  eighteen  times,  and  that  Cornell  never  heard  of  him.  At  least  one  source  places  him,  during  the  &quot;Cornell&quot;  years,  in  496e646961;  another  claims  to  have  seen  a  photograph  of  someone  bearing  a  re-  markable  likeness  to  Gerstenson  prac-  ticing  ragas  at  the  feet  of  a  master  of  the  sitarin  Benares.  A  closer  examination  of  Gersten-  son's  highly  dramatic  family  back-  ground  brings  that  &quot;history&quot;  into  closer  accordwith  the  everyday  world.  Court  records  in  Fargo,  North  Dakota,  indicate  that  Mrs.  Gerstenson  is  half  Shoshoni  and  half  Sioux;  Mr.  Ger-  stenson  senior-as  nearly  as  can  be  made  out  from  Social  Security  re-  ports-was  probably  a  railroad  detec-  tive  who  uprooted  the  little  family  on  an  average  of  three  times  a  year  until  he  settled  into  the  position  of  assistant  ski-waxer  at  the  University  of  Colo-  rado.  To  complete  the  picture,  payroll " b"records  at  Fenner  &amp;  Greaves,  in  Al-  bany,  disclose  no  one  named  Gersten-  son  ever  employed  there.  On  the  other  hand,  several  witnesses  from  Duluth  claim  that  during  this  perioda  young  man  they  would  be  willing  to  swear  was  Gerstenson,  if  his  hair  was  unshorn,  ran  a  school  in  an  abandoned  icehouse  on  the  shore  of  Lake  Superior,  where  students  taught  to  construct  thumb  pianos  for  children  in  Central  Africa  who  had  lost  all  hope.  The  Art  M.  Gerstenson  [REDACTED]  loves-the  high-voltage  singer  whose  ballads  jolt  the  Establishment-has  be-  were     come  too  big,  too  true  in  his  art  to  need  f  a  string  of  visual  gimmicks  and  a  spuri-  ous  publicity  facade  to  attract  notice.  As  he  himself  has  so  subtly  put  it  in  the  third  verse  of  his  searing  work  &quot;The  Ballad  of  Justin  Claypole&quot;:  Salinas  man  a-sittin'  in  the  sun  Countin'  most  a  million  pails  of  snapbeans,  Baskets  of  lettuce  and  baskets  of  greens,  When  the  long  summer's  pickin'  is  done.  Who's  that  man  who  meets  the  Wetback  payroll  ?  Nobody  else  but  Mr.  Justin  Clay-  pole!  Sing  rolleo-polleo,  rolleo-polleo  ...  Tall  and  proud,  Farmer  Justin  Claypole  Meets  every  Mexi-pickin'  payroll!  So,  how  about  it,  Art  M.  Gersten-  son?  Come  out  from  behind  that  put-  on,  stand  tall  and  proud,  and  meet  your  responsibilities  to  your  public!  "