 b"FOR  a  long  time  he  hadn't  touched  the  rifle.  He  had  hardly  been  able  to  look  at  it.  It  lay  on  a  bearskin  rug  on  top  of  the  player  piano,  dust  gathering  along  its  length,dulling  the  blue  gleam  of  its  barrel.  Yet  he  thought  about  it  all  the  time  and  was  so  con-  scious  of  its  presence  that  when  he  and  his  wife  sat  in  the  cabin  at  night,  reading  or  watching  the  fire,  it  was  as  if  a  third  person  was  in  the  room  with  them.  Now  he  got  up  from  the  couch  where  he  had  been  lying,  resting  be-  cause  of  a  headache,  and  went  across  the  room  to  the  piano  and  took  the  rifle  off  its  top.  He  slid  open  the  doors  at  the  front  of  the  piano,  reached  into  the  opening  where  the  rolls  of  music  went,  and  took  a  box  of  shells  out  of  the  niche  he  kept  them  hidden  in.  From  his  wife  and  visitors.  From  himself.  He  counted  out  five  shells,  loaded  them  in  the  rifle,  set  the  box  back  inside  the  piano,  and  slid  the  doors  shut.  Then  he  stood  staring  at  the  piano  keys,  motionless  and  dazed,  as  though  these  actions  had  not  been  performed  by  him  and  he  was  trying  to  decide  what  to  do  about  them.  The  pain  in  his  head-a  shaft  running  from  above  his  right  eyebrow  deep  into  the  coils  of  his  brain-greatly  increased.  He  placed  his  hand  on  the  piano  and  rest-  ed  his  weight  on  it.  His  nails  needed  cleaning.  Along  the  upper  joints  of  his  fingers,  in  the  straight  hairthat  grew  between  his  knuckles,  there  were  glit-  tering  pinpoints  of  perspiration.  He  felt  dirty.  He  knew  that  his  hair,  dark,  un-  trimmed,  receding  back  from  his  broad  forehead,  was  oily  and  tousled;  that  his  face  was  pale  its  whole  length,  the  black  sideburns  emphasizing  its  white-  ness  and  long  lines,  drawing  attention  to  his  feminine  lips  (which  began  to  quiver);  and  that  there  was  a  shine  of  exuded  oil  on  his  high  cheekbones,  on  the  convex  knobs  of  his  forehead,  on  his  nose,  and  in  the  gray  depressions  under  his  eyes,  goddammit!  And  his  eyes  would  be  wide,  rounder  and  more  pale-looking,  with  all  the  unresolved  experience  of  his  twenty-  nine  years  shining  behind  them  like  fear,  making  him  seem  smaller  than  he  was,  five  feet  instead  of  six,  a  light-  weight,  an  easy  prey  to  attack,  hesitant,  defenseless,  mistrustful,  and  scared.  Suddenly  it  was  as  if  the  black  and  white  piano  keys  that  stretched  from  one  edge  of  his  vision  to  the  other  and  seemed  an  extension  of  theantipathies  he  felt  in  himself  had  been  hit  by  a  fist.  His  head  swelled  with  discord  and  pain,  and  he  stepped  back  from  the  instru-  ment.  There  was  the  weight  of  the  rifle  in  his  hands.  He  turned  away,  went  across  the  room  to  the  front  door,  and  stepped  outside,  stopping  at  the  edge  of  the cement  landing.  The  afternoon  was  dark  and  overcast,  and  the  wind  was  blowing  strongly  through  the  leaves  of  the  trees,  tearing  loose  some  of  the  brown-edged  ones  and  lifting  them  off  in  flight.  The  air  was  cold,  but  it  car-  ried  a  moist,  verdant  smell.  It  seemed  to  him  more  like  spring  than  the  be-  ginning  of  fall.  He  looked  through  the  trunks  of  the  trees  to  where  he  could  see,  far  below,  several  hundred  feet  down  from  the  bluff  the  cabin  stood  on,  the  blue  of  Lake  [REDACTED].  A  haze  hung  over  it,  dulling  its  color.  Off  to  the  side  of  the  yard,  between  the  cabin  and  the  edge  of  the  bluff,  his  wife  was  kneeling  in  the  grass,  bent  over  some-  thing,  her  head  obscured  by  the  trunk  of  a  birch.  He  went  toward  her  down  one  of  the  paths  that  led  through  the  tall  grass,  h's  advance  rendered  sound-  less  by  the  wind  blowing  in  from  the  lake,  and  stopped  next  to  the  birch,  just  behind  her.  The  dog  lay  in  front  of  her  knees,  flattened  into  a  curly  mass,  shapeless,  unmoving,  like  a  rug  she  had  spread  on  the  grass  to  dry.  She  was  lifting  up  thick  strands  of  tan  hair  that  hung  damp  and  lifeless  from  its  flank  and  was  running  her  pocket  comb  through  them.  Her  hands  and  fingers  moved  precisely  but  with  reserve,  almost  with  aversion,  as  though  they  were  moving  over  the  surface  of  something  she  was  reluctant  to  touch  but  whose  presence  she  liked  to  tempt.  She  smoked  in  the  same  manner.  She  cooked  and  ate  that  way.  The  manner  aroused  and  irritat-  ed  him  at  the  same  time;  either  it  exposed-without  her  knowing  it-her  whole  being,  or  it  hinted  at  a  part  of  her  he  knew  nothing  about.  She  was  hoarding  yet  generous,  serene  but  passionate,  analytical  and  warm-a  maze  of  contra-  dictions,  her  behavior  erup-  tive  but  always  under  con-  trol.  A  gust  of  wind  came  up  over  the  bluff,  agitating  the  leaves  above  them,  and  her  jacket  (his  Army  fatigue  jacket  with  the  sleeves  rolled  up)  billowed  out  like  a  sail,  and  her  hair  streamed  straight  back  from  her  face.  She  eased  her  weight  onto  her  haunches,  placed  her  hands  on  her  thighs,  and  her  chest  heaved.  The  wind  eased,  her  hair  settled  down  lightly  over  her  shoulders,  and  he  could  see  her  profile,  " b"her  small  brow,  her  straight  nose  and  strong  chin,  her  lips,  her  sparse  gold  eyelashes  lying  along  the  curve  of  her  cheek.  A  few  feet  ahead,  in  a  ring  of  spaded  earth,  stood  a  seedling  she  had  planted  a  few  weeks  before-a  young  maple  with  two  opposed  leaves  sprouting  from  the  tip  of  its  stem.  She  seemed  to  be  studying  it.  Just  then  a  gust  of  wind  hit  and  the  two  leaves  went  back  like  sprung  umbrellas,  blown  into  conelike  shapes,  wavering  with  the  strength  of  the  wind,  their  ribs  showing.  She  watched  with  interest  while  she  patted  the  dog.  He  watched  her.  To  anybody  but  him  she  mightseem  easy  to  divert,  flighty,  rootless-simple  to  as-  sail.  She  wasn't.  In  spite  of  the  contradictions  in  her,  she  nev-  er  became  confused  or  dis-  traught,  as  he  did,  never  lost  her  presence  of  mind  or  ques-  tioned  what  happened  to  her.  All  she  ever  questioned  was  herself.  If  the  seedling  died,  it  would  reflect  a  failing  in  her,  not  in  the  seedling  or  in  Nature,  and  she  would  take  full  blame  for  it.  But  it  wouldn't  depress  her.  She  would  remove  it  from  her  sight,  do  away  with  it,  return  it  to  the  natural  order  of  things,  and  get  an-  other.  On  the  other  hand,  if  she  found  him  in  one  of  his  black  moods,  it  was  enough  to  make  tears  come  to  her  eyes  and  start  down  her  cheeks;  then  again,  at  other  times,  like  now,  when  he  felt  defeated  beyond  hope,  she  would  ignore  him,  or  else  come  up  suddenly  and  take  him  by  the  hand-her  green  eyes  widening  with  the  intensity  of  her  belief-and  say,  &quot;It'll  work  out  be-  cause  we  love  each  other!&quot;  She  was  combing  the  dog  again,  her  fingers  moving  in  that  reserved,  limp,  irritating  manner.  He  could  not  fathom  it.  It  held  him  apart  from  her.  A  mild,  satisfied  expression  came  over  her  face,  causing  the  corner  of  her  lips  to  lift.  He  made  an  involuntary  movement,  as  though  to  see  better  or  to  touch  her,  and  then  drew  back,  realizing  he  liked  her  best  when  he  caught  her  this  way,  in  an  unguarded  moment,  absorbed  in  what  she  was  doing,  unaware  that  she  was  being  watched.  &quot;I  think  he  does  it  on  purpose,&quot;  she  said,  without  looking  up.  Her  voice  startled  him.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  &quot;I  think  he  goes  into  the  woods  on  purpose.  To  where  these  are.&quot;  She  held  an  elongated  seed,  the  color  and shape  of  a  short  porcupine  quill,  in  front  of  her  eyes,  studied  it,  then  tossed  it  into  the  grass,  She  ran  the  comb  halfway  through  a  curl  and  paused.  &quot;You're  getting  perverse,  aren't  you,  Winston?&quot;  she  said.  The  dog  lay  motionless,  without  lifting  its  head  or  even  pricking  up  its  ears  at  the  mention  of  its  name.  &quot;He  loves  doing  things  he  shouldn't  do,&quot;  she  said,  and  the  mild  expression  returned  to  her  face.  &quot;Well,  it's  all  he  has  left.  He's  getting  so  old.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98OldP  \xc2\xbb  It  was  the  first  time  she  had  admitted  this.  &quot;Well.  Less  lively  than  before.&quot;  &quot;Less  lively!&quot;  &quot;Tired.&quot;  She  looked  up  and  the  expression  of  her  face  changed.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You're  going  hunting.&quot;  The  island  of  Manitou,  hardly  visible  through  the  haze  that  hung  over  the  lake,  was  lying  long  and  low  and  dark  along  the  horizon.  For  as  far  out  as  he  could  see,  the  irregular  lines  of  high  whitecaps  came  following  one  after  the  other,  and  even  from  the  height  of  the  bluff  he  could  hear,  above  the  sound  of  the  wind  in  the  leaves,  the  deeper  sound  of  waves  breaking  on  the  beach.  He  had  never  seen  the  lake  in  such  tur-  bulence.  She  stood  up.  &quot;I  thought  you  were  going  to  leave  without  ever  going  hunt-  ing,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We  have  so  few  days  left.  T  wo,  in  fact.&quot;  He  turned  to  her,  his  eyes  dull  and  bewildered,  and  asked,  &quot;How  long  have  we  been  here?&quot;  &quot;You  know!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Over  a  month  now.&quot;  Her  words  didn't  come  through  to  h'm  until  a  few  seconds  after  she  spoke,  so  watching  her  face  and  lips  was  like  watching  a  film  that  was  out  of  sync.  &quot;I'm  not  going  hunting,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Just  down  to  the  beach.&quot;  &quot;Why  the  rifle?&quot;  He  glanced  at  it,  gently  raised  and  lowered  it  in  his  hands  as  though  to  gauge  its  weight,  gave  her  a  look  that  was  plaintive  and  confused,  and  then,  as  though  ashamed  of  it,  shrugged  his  shoulders  and  started  toward  the  trail  thatled  from  the  bluff  to  the  beach.  &quot;Why  don't  you  take  Winston  with  you?&quot;  she  called.  &quot;Let  the  poor  thing  be.&quot;  &quot;You'll  be  up  in  time  for  dinner,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Right?&quot;  He  stopped  at  the  edge  of  the  bluff,  and  stared  at  an  apple  that  had  dropped  from  a  tree  onto  the  trodden  dirt  at  the  head  of  the  trail.  The  apple  was  bright  green,  with  crimson  streaks  crowning  its  top.  There  were  brown  wormholes  in  it.  For  a  week  he'd  felt  physically  and  mentally  exhausted,  and  every-  thing  outside  him-her,  the  scenery,  objects,  his  own  limbs-everything  he  focussed  on  (now  the  apple)  com-  manded  his  complete  attention.  It  was  as  if  this  period  of  rest  were  narrowing  all  his  faculties  instead  of  restoring  and  broadening  them.  He  had  brought  along  some  work,  a  briefcase  full  of  it,  " b" which  he  intended  to  do,  and  was  ex-  pected  to  do,  but  he  hadn't  even  opened  the  briefcase.  Soon  they  would  be  going  back  to  the  city  and  he  had  nothing  to  show  for  the  month  he  had  been  away.  His  job  was  threatened  -he  knew  that-but  the  knowledge  no  longer  bothered  him.  He  felt  her  hand  on  his  forearm.  &quot;Chris?&quot;  &quot;Pardon?&quot;  &quot;I  asked  if  you'll  be  up  in  time  for  dinner.  Or  do  you  want  me  to  not  make  it  till  later?&quot;  He  stared  at  her  for  a  long  time,  as  though  he  hadn't  heard  her  question  and  was  about  to  say  something  strik-  ing  and  decisive.  Then  he  lowered  his  eyes.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,  I  just  want  to  see  the  waves.  Walk.  I  won't  be  long.&quot;  &quot;It  feels  like  it's  going  to  rain,  any-  way.&quot;  &quot;It  already  is,&quot;  he  said,  and  point-  ed  across  the  lake.  Far  out,  above  the  island,  there  was  a  dark  cloud  with  streaks  of  rain  slanting  down  from  it.  &quot;Should  you  go,  then?&quot;  sheasked.  &quot;There  have  to  be  more  clouds  and  bigger  clouds  than  that  to  make  a  real  rain,&quot;  he  said,  his  voice  suddenly  sharp,  as  though  the  words  came  from  a  great  residue  of  anger,  an  unspoken  griev-  ance.  Then  he  became  confused  again,  and  apologetic.  &quot;I'm  sorry.  I  mean,  I  don't  think  it'll  rain  here,  not  hard  anyway,  because,  look,  the  haze  is  lifting  from  the  lake.  You  can  feel  the  sun.  See?  It's  warmer.  Feel?&quot;  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  &quot;'Tell  me.&quot;  &quot;'Nothing.&quot;  He  kissed  her  on  the  cheek.  &quot;Do  you  still  feel  upset?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said,  and  stepped  over  the  apple,  and  started  down  the  trail.  It  travelled  along  the  faceof  the  bluff,  descending  at  a  gentleangle,  and  then  switched  back  in  the  opposite  direction  and  de-  scended  again.  It  grew  steep-  er.  He  leaned  back  for  bal-  ance,  clenching  his  teeth  so  they  didn't  jar  together  with  the  shock  of  his  heels  hit,  ting  the  ground.  After  a  period  of  shuttling  across  and  back,  he  was  in  a  sparse  growth  of  trees,  birches  and  silver  maples,  and  then  the  trail  straightened  and  went  through  a  thicket  of  jack  pine  and  fir.  Here  the  path  was  spongy,  layered  with  needles,  and  bright  moss  carpeted  the  ground  to  his  left.  There  were  mushrooms.  He  slowed  down,  watching  some  frail  ferns  bow  with  the  wind.  It  was  darker  in  the  thicket  and  would  have  been  gloomy  if  it  hadn't  been  forthe  smell  of  pine.  Dried  tufts  of  grass,  fine  as  corn  silk,  drooped  from  the  face  of  the  bluff.  A  chipmunk  appeared  ahead  of  him,  hur-  ried  down  the  trail,  then  stopped  and  went  up  on  its  haunches  and  swivelled  its  triangular  head  to  him.  He  kept  walking  toward  it  without  raising  the  rifle.  It  dived  into  hiding  in  some  brush.  Spring.  Patches  of  shadow  passing  over  him  as  he  sang,  &quot;Oh,  Mary,  we  crown  thee  with  blossoms  today,  Queen  of  the  angels,  Queen  of  the  May.  ...&quot;  Moving  under  the  budding  trees,  his  voice  blendingwith  thevoices  of  classmates-the  boys  in  dark  suits  and  white  ties,  the  girls  in  their  First  Com-  munion  dresses.  A  nun  walking  beside  them,  keeping  them  in  line,  her  long  rosary  swinging  from  the  belt  of  her  black  habit,  its  beads  clashing.  A  smell  of  incense  and  flowers.  The  sun  bright  on  the  white  dresses.  &quot;How  dark  with-  out  Mary  life's  journey  would  be!  Oh,  Mary  ...&quot;  The  girl  in  the  lead,  a  crown  of  flowers  in  her  hands,  turning  up  the  walk  toward  the  church.  Three  altar  boys  turning  in  behind  her,  their  cassocks  with  capes  and  sashes  of  gold    silk  catching  the  sun,  and  then  the  song  ending.  The  girl  pausing  on  the  church  steps.  The  procession  slowing  to  a  halt.  In  the  silence  a  nun's  voice  humming  a  pitch.  Then  moving  ahead  once  more,  more  slowly  now,  singing  in  soft  tones,  &quot;On  this  day,  oh,  beautiful  Mother;  on  this  day,  we  give  thee  our  love.  .  .  .&quot;  Up  the  steps,  watching  the  polished  toes  of  his  shoes,  into  the  coolness  of  the  nave,  gripping  the  purple  and  white  lilacs  his  mother  had  picked  that  morning.  Down  the  dark  aisle,  singing  still,  pews  going  past,  swinging  back  from  his  vision  like  spokes-colored  light  from  the  stained-glass  windows  lying  on  their  seats.  Ahead,  off  to  the  left  of  the  Communion  rail,  the  altar  of  the  BlessedVirgin,  with  a  set  of  tem-  porary  steps  leading  up  to  the  top  of  her  tall  statue  so  the  girl  could  put  the  gar-  land  in  place.  Singing,  staring  at  the  bouquet,  offering  this  up  to  his  mother  instead  of  Mary-  &quot;Dammit!&quot;  he  cried.  The  trail  under  him  had  turned  to  three  trails,  and  the  trunks  of  the  trees  blurred  and  merged  as  his  eyes  brimmed  with  tears.  For  a  long  time,  for  months,  he'd  felt  that  instead  of  moving  through  the  present  toward  a  future  he  was  trav-  elling  backward,  deeper  and  deeper  into  the  recesses  of  the  past,  down  tortuous  passageways,  halls  with  no  end,  old  tunnels  dark  with  guilt,  into  places  he  couldn't  escape  from.  He  had  hoped  that  this  vacation,  to  this  place,  which  was  in  no  way  related  to  his  life,  would  bring  that  to  an  end,  but  it  made  it  worse;  on  neutral  ground,  where  there  was  nothing  familiar  to  cling  to,  his  past  was  all  he  was,  and  it  was  unleashed  upon  him  with  new  strength.  Again  the  words  &quot;On  this  day&quot;  bumped  against  his  con-  sciousness,  trying  to  break  into  music.  He  forced  them  back  down.  He  didn't  want  to  relive  that  May  crowning  or  any  part  of  his  childhood  where  his  mother  moved  in  freedom.  She  was  dead.  She  had  died  when  he  was  nine,  and  then  his  father  died.  Later,  in  college,  he  went  into  a  confessional,  and  was  in  the  midst  of  a  list  of  the  usual  petty  sins  when  sud-  denly,  in  the  same  penitential  whisper,  he  started  raining  down  on  the  head  of  the  priest  all  the  wrath  that  had  built  up  in  him  over  the     " b'years  because  of  their  deaths,  and  when  he  left  the  con-  fessional,  never  to  go  into  one  again,  he  thought  he  had  left  behind,  in  the  hands  of  the  priest,  his  childhood,  his  parents,  death,  and  God.  He  thought.  The  trees  thinned,  some  last  leaf  shadows  slipped  over  his  face,  and  he  squint  ed  against  the  light.  The  heat  of  the  sun  on  his  fore-  head  made  the  pain  of  the  headache  increase.  The  trail  grew  steeper,  went  down  at  such  a  slant  he  had  to  hold  himself  in  check  to  keep  from  running,  and  at  this  point  it  was  no  more  than  a  ledge,  sliced  so  deeply  into  the  sheer  face  of  the  bluff  that  an  outcropping  of  sod  brushed  against  his  shoulder.  He  was  breathing  heavily.  He  stopped  and  wiped  the  sleeveof  his  shirt  across  his  face.  Directly  below  him  was  a  pile  of  sharp  rocks.  He  let  the  rifle  slip  through  his  hand  until  it  rested  on  its  butt.  He  stared  at  the  rocks,  at  their  pointed  shadows  fac-  ing  him,  at  the  ground  hem-  lock  growing  around  them,  and  then  he  was  travelling  down  the  remainder  of  the  trail  as  fast  as  his  eyes  would  go,  flashing  back  and  forth  over  the  face  of  the  bluff,  flying  along,  and  finally,  far  below,  coming  up  against  a  stand  of  dead  ce-  dars.  The  spires  of  their  trunks  showed  black  against  the  background  of  the  lake.  He  was  more  than  halfway  down.  He  picked  up  the  rifle  and  walked  along  the  ledge,  turned  a  bend,  went  past  the  pile  of  sharp  rocks,  then  turned  and  descended  again,  watching  the  gravel  he  kicked  loose  tumble  and  hop  down  the  trail  ahead  of  him.  Suddenly  there  was  an  explosion,  a  flash  beside  him,  and  a  fragment  flew  past  his  face,  beating  its  wings,  showing  its  white  rump,  and  went  down  toward  the  cedars  out  of  sight.  It  grew  darker.  He  felt  he  had  en-  tered  another  thicket,  but  the  bluff  was  barren  here;  all  that  grew  around  him  was  a  ground  cover  with  tear-shaped  leaves.  He  stopped  and  looked  up.  There  were  no  clouds  near  the  sun.  He  looked  at  the  trail,  at  the  dried  grass  beside  it,  at  the  slope  where  the  ground  cover  grew,  at  its  pulpy  swollen  leaves,  its  red  roots  lying  lacelike  over  the  clay  and  the  clay  bulging  behind  them,  and then,  once  more,  the  landscape  dark-  ened.  He  shook  his  head,  but  immedi-  ately  stopped;  the  movement  caused  such  pain  he  felt  his  brain  was  swinging  from  a  single  nerve.  He  began  walking  again,  quickening  his  pace.  The  shadows  of  the  tall  cedars  passed  over  him  in  cool  streaks,  and  then  his  heels  were  striking  wood,  making  it  resound  with  a  cavernous  echo.  Look-  ing  down,  he  saw  in  flashes,  through  the  widely  spaced  planks,  the  deep  ra-  vine  below  and  the  rocks  and  logs  and  dead  limbs  piled  along  its  bottom.  He  entered  another  thicket  of  pine,  lost  his  balance,  went  stumbling  down  a  steep  part  of  the  trail,  saw  a  strip  of  aspens  rapidly  approach,  crashed  through  them,  still  running,  andwas  on  the  beach.  The  loose  sand  sliding  away  be-  neath  his  boots  slowed  him,  the  lake  stretched  in  front  of  him  to  infinity,  and  the  wind  beat  the  sleeves  of  his  shirt  against  his  biceps.  The  waves  were  so  high  that  his  breath-as  though  the  cold  wall  of  one  had  crashed  over  his  chest-caught  in  his  throat.  A  black  rock  rose  out  of  the  water  like  the  head  and  shoulders  of  a  seal;  usually  the  tip  of  the  rock  showed  above  the  top  of  the  waves,  but  now  when  they  came  in  they  rolled  high  above  the  rock,  stand-  .  ing  in  sheets  as  tall  as  hewas,  and  then  collapsed  after  they  had  passed  it.  When  he  came  to  where  the  sand  was  wet  and  packed,  he  stopped  and  looked  up  and  down  the  beach.  It  was  deserted,  as  usual,  for  as  far  as  he  could  see.  He  moved  closer  to  the  water.  There  were  no  pleasure  craft  on  the  lake,  no  sailboats  or  cabin  cruisers,  but  off  in  the  distance,  near  the  island  of  Manitou,  a  large  ore  boat  was  making  its  way  toward  the  north,  putting  out  so  much  black  smoke  it  looked  like  a  burn-  ing  house.  Unless  the  bays  were  frozen  solid,  the  big  ore  boats  plied  their  trade.  He  kept  his  eyes  on  it,  following  its  infinitesimal  progress  with  interest,  with  reverence,  until  his  eyes  began  to  burn.  As  it  neared  the  line  of  the  horizon,  a  mirage  made  it  seem  split  in  two.  He  watched  a  swell  raise  itself  into  ' b"a  wave,  begin  t  o  bend,  curving  at  its  top,  and  come  cascading  down  over  the  flat,  retreati  ng  plane  of  the  last  wave,  foaming,  thunde  ring  as  it  fell.  Then  he  was  moving  into  the  wat  er,  weightless,  heading  straight  out  as  the  next  w  ave  rose  up  and  came  toward  him  and  then  hit,  the  tons  of  water  t  aking  him  under,  tumbling  him,  his  h  ead  knocking  on  the  pack  ed  bottom,  th  e  rifle  spiralling  out  of  his  grip,  the  sandy  undertow  rolling  him,  holding  him  u  nder  until  he  gave  up  fighting,  went  limp,  became  one  with  the  water.  No.  A  la  rge  wa  ve  crash  e  d  and  spray  spat-  tered  his  face.  Star  tled,  t  he  rifle  snug  in  th  e  crook  of  his  arm,  he  stepped  back  from  the  foam  advancing  toward  his  toes.  He  braced  his  legs.  Something  for  ei  gn  an  d  unclear  was  insinuating  itself  into  him,  taking  over.  It  spread  thr  ough  his  mind  like  smoke,  grew  den  ser,  and  then,  like  the  dark  swirls  in  an  agate,  locked  in  place.  H  e  clenched  his  jaw.  His  heartbeat  picked  up  an  d  it  was  hard  to  breathe.  He  heard  some-  thing  and  turned.  The  dog  was  standing  behind  him,  p  antin  g  ,  its  sides  heaving,  its  long  tongue  draped  over  the  side  of  its  jaw,  dropping  saliva  onto  the  sand.  &quot;What  are  you  doing  here?&quot;  Standing  alone,  it  looke  d  mor  e  e  nor-  mous  than  ever  an  d  more  ludicrous.  It  was  a  cross  between  a  collie  and  another  breed  (a  St.  Bernard?)  that  had  bequeathed  to  it  a  broad  back,  heavy  paws,  and  a  blunt  nose.  It  was  hers.  She  got  it  when  she  was  in  her  teens,  and  she  had  left  it  with  her  parents  un-  til  after  she  was  married,  when  she  asked  to  have  it  back.  She  still  spoke  to  it  as  though  it  were  a  pup  and  treated  it  with  as  much  affection.  Now  it  was,  as  she  said,  old;  it  limped  badly  on  a  front  paw,  it  coughed  at  night,  matter  ran  from  its  eyes,  and  lately  they  had  to  boost  it  from  behind  to  get  it  up  the  steps  to  their  apartment.  For  the  past  year  he  had  been  tr  ying  to  think  of  so  me  compassionate  way  to  put  it  out  of  its  suffering.  &quot;Why  did  you  come  down  ?&quot;  He  could  shoot  it  now.  The  dog's  eyes,  bloodshot  and  watery,  rolled  up  and  studied  him  with  a  look  of  mourn-  ing  and  shame.  Then  it  lowered  its  head,  executed  a  slow  and  ponderous  turn,  and  started  up  the  beach,  its  head  nodding  and  its  wide  body  rocking  with  the  limp.  He  felt  more  pity  for  it  than  affection,  but  sometimes  he  sensed  that  he  understood  something  about  it  that  she  didn't.  And  what  did  it  sense  about  him?  Why  had  it  walked  away  now?  Why  had  it  followed  him?  It  al-  ways  stayed  at  her  side,  and  never  made  the  long  tri  p  down  to  the  beach  unless  she  went  too.  &quot;Winston,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why  did  you  come  down?&quot;  The  dog  stopped  and  looked  over  its  shoulder  at  him,  exposing  the  pink  tis-   sue  a  r  ound  its  e  y  e,  and  then  i  t  tu  r  ned  and  we  n  t  trudg  ing  a  h  ead  ,  dragging  its  b  ig  p  aws,  le  a  vi  n  g  U-s  h  ape  d  w  ak  es  in  th  e  s  an  d  .  Perhaps  it  had  c  om  e  d  ow  n  to  die.  The  dark  swir  ls  swept  into  his  mind  a  gain,  enmeshing  it  .  He  turned  and  s  ta  r  te  d  do  w  n  the  b  each,  in  the  opposite  direction.  About  a  h  alf  m  ile  away,  next  to  th  e  bluff,  the  re  wa  s  a  s  pr  i  ng  that  f  ed  a  s  ma  ll  po  o  l  sc  o  op  e  d  out  o  f  smoo  th  roc  k,  and  w  hen  he  pa  s  se  d  the  s  pr  i  ng  a  fe  w  day  s  ag  o  he  noticed  t  hat  s  ome  b  ody  had  l  eft  b  eer  to  co  o  l  in  i  ts  icy  wate  r,  a  nd  app  ar  ent  ly  had  fo  r  go  tten  it;  th  e  bo  t  tles  wer  e  covered  with  alg  ae,  th  e  ir  ca  p  s  were  r  usting,  their  labels  co  ming  lo  o  se.  He  wo  uld  go  ther  e  no  w  a  nd  dr  i  nk  it.  The  alc  oh  ol  would  s  pre  ad  throu  gh  his  m  i  n  d  ,  da  rk  an  d  deb  i  lit  a  tin  g  as  t  he  swir  ls,  an  d  he  co  u  ld  pre  t  end  ,  for  a  few  hours  at  leas  t  ,  th  a  t  bee  r  was  the  cause  o  f  them.  A  g  re  at  di  stanc  e  do  w  n  t  he  b  each,  a  narro  w  point  with  grass-covered  du  n  es  s  tret  c  hed  out  into  the  wate  r.  He  c  ou  l  d  se  e  tal  l  w  av  e  s  co  m  in  g  in  at  an  an  gle  a  nd  breaking  on  t  he  b  ea  c  h  the  re,  roll-  i  ng  up  c  lose  to  th  e  dun  e  s.  The  curve  o  f  the  sh  ore  ca  ught  th  eir  sound  and  re-  tur  n  ed  i  t  to  h  im  a  s  an  ech  o  .  It  was  li  ke  th  e  sound  of  th  u  nd  e  r-  dense  r  a  nd  more  persis  t  ent  than  the  s  ound  of  t  he  waves  breaking  be  sid  e  h  im.  Or  was  it  thunder?  He  loo  k  ed  up  and  sa  w  dark  clouds  scudding  above  him  a  cros  s  the  t  op  o  f  t  he  bluff.  A  g  ull  ca  m  e  s  ai  l  in  g  d  ow  n  the  li  n  e  o  f  the  beach  on  the  hi  gh  w  ind  ,  its  s  tiff  wing  tips  tilti  n  g  q  uic  k  to  kee  p  i  t  o  n  course  in  t  he  erra  t  ic  c  ur  rents  of  air.  H  e  s  tarted  to  ra  i  se  the  ri  f  le  ,  and  th  en  shrugge  d  an  d  walked  on.  *  Wh  en  he  was  almost  to  th  e  spring,  he  felt  pin-  pricks  of  sensa  tion,  ran  -  dom  and  chilling,  f  ir  s  t  on  the  back  of  h  is  h  an  d  ,  the  n  o  n  h  is  fo  r  eh  e  ad  ,  then  h  is  lip.  It  wa  s  s  prinkl  i  ng.  T  he  b  ea  c  h  t  ur  n  ed  ro  cky,  a  nd  he  walk  e  d  up  t  o-  wa  r  d  th  e  b  as  e  o  f  th  e  bl  u  ff,  ste  p  pin  g  over  d  riftwood  and  be  a  ch  e  d  t  im  b  ers,  and  then  foll  ow  e  d  a  long  the  bluff,  keeping  cl  ose  t  o  the  bu  she  s  and  trees,  and  ca  m  e  to  the  spring.  The  beer  was  gone.  He  cursed.  He  looked  around.  A  large  cedar  was  growing  a  few  feet  up  from  the  base  of  the  bluff,  its  trunk  bent  horizontal  with  the  weight  " b"of  its  dense  boughs,  which,  drooping  low,  formed  a  shelter.  He  crawled  in  under  the  boughs,  close  to  the  scoured  face  of  the  clay  bluff,  and  saw  that  some  animal  had  dug  down  through  the  roots  of  the  tree.  He  turned  him-  self,  propping  his  shoulder  against  the  roots,  and  faced  the  lake.  It  began  to  rain  harder.  The  sound  of  the  storm  was  muted  where  he  lay,  he  was  shielded  from  the  wind,  and  very  little  rain  penetrated  through  the  boughs.  Warm,  enwrapped  in  a  smell  of  cedar  and  earth,  he  felt  for  the  first  time  in  many  daysa  semblance  of  peace  but  at  the  same  time  a  strange  isolation,  as  though  the  habitable  spaces  of  the  earth  had  shrunk  to  the  limits  of  a  single  room  and  he  was  alone  in  that  room  and  had  to  be  careful  to  keep  his  breath  from  fogging  its  one  window.  He  looked  at  the  rifle,  studying  the  stock,  the  barrel,  the  trigger  guard,  the  trigger.  There  were  no  thoughts  in  his  head,  no  calculations  or  clear  im-  ages,  no  rush  of  the  past,  no  more  con-  fusion.  It  was  as  if  his  mind  was  cleared  and  ready  for  a  final  command.  He  looked  toward  the  lake.  The  pool  ofthespring  was  in  front  of  him,  only  a  few  feet  away,  and  he  could  see  tiny  geysersleaping  straight  up  from  its  sur-  face  where  raindrops  struck.  A  finch  flew  down  and  landed  on  the  wet  rocks  next  to  the  pool,  its  gold  body  bright  against  the  grayness  of  the  groundand  lake.  Teetering  unsurely  on  a  rock,  poised  to  fly,  flicking  its  head  from  side  to  side,  it  made  a  quick  search  of  the  surroundings,  and  then,  tilting  back,  opened  its  beak  and  gave  out  a  musical  phrase  so  clear  and  pure  it  pierced  the  sound  of  the  storm  and  seemed  to  origi-  nate  inside  his  own  head.  He  put  the  rifle  down  as  though  it  were  an  en-  cumbrance  to  this  music  in  him,  and  with  a  sudden  flurry  the  bird  was  in  the  pool,  bathing  itself,  flinging  fan-  shaped  showers  of  drops  from  its  wings.  Occasionally  it  paused  in  its  bathing,  raised  its  beak  to  the  rain,  and  gave  out  the  musical  phrase-a  song  that  still  seemed  to  originate  in  his  own  mind,  making  it  feel  as  crystalline  and  pure  as  the  water  of  the  spring.  Abruptly,  it  was  over,  and  the  bird,  drenched  and  heavy,  went  off  on  a  low  undulating  flight  into  the  trees.  The  storm  started  to  let  up,  and  it  grew  lighter.  First  the  wind  slackened,  and  then  the  rain  thinned,  and  finally  it  stopped  altogether.  He  picked  up  the  rifle,  wiped  his  sleeve  over  its  oiled  barrel  where  beads  of  water,  minute  and  perfectly  circular,  were  standing,  cocked  the  rifle,  and  crawled  out  of  the  shelter,  jarring  the  boughs  above  him, soaking  the  seat  of  his  pants.  He  walked  back  up  the  beach  to  where  the  trail  began.  Several  yards  ahead  of  him  a  jug  made  of  turquoise  plastic,  a  con-  tainer  for  bleach,  was  leaning  against  a  large  log  that  lay  half  buried  in  the  wet  sand.  He  raised  the  rifle,  fired  off  four  shots,  rapidly,  one  after  the  other,  and  they  tore  through  the  neck  of  the  jug  and  thumped  into  the  dead  wood  with  a  dull  sound.  He  left  the  final  round  in  the  magazine.  He  looked  around  for  the  dog,  and  saw  it  moving  down  the  beach  in  the  direction  he  had  come  from,  heading  toward  the  spring.  Apparently  they  had  just  passed  one  another.  &quot;Winston,&quot;  he  called.  &quot;Winston!&quot;  The  dog,  its  shaggy  tail  hanging  limp,  paused  with  its  back  to  him,  as  though  its  attention  were  focussed  on  something  distant,  and  then  continued  to  walk  straight  ahead.  &quot;Winston!&quot;  The  dog  wouldn't  even  turn  to  look  at  him.  It  plodded  steadily  ahead  through  the  sand,  its  body  swaying.  Oh,  let  it  go,  he  thought;  let  it  be.  If  it  had  come  down  of  its  own  ac-  cord,  it  would  come  up  when  it  want-  ed  to.  He  turned  away  and  started  up  the  trail,  but  had  only  gone  a  few  steps  be-  fore  he  stopped,  remembering  the  last  shell.  He  crashed  through  the  strip  of  aspens,  walked  over  the  loose  sand  to  the  water's  edge,  and  stood  near  the  seal-shaped  rock.  The  waves  were  smaller  now,  only  two  or  three  feet  high,  and  the  darkness  in  the  air  was  the  natural  darkness  of  coming  night  and  not  that  of  a  storm.  He  cocked  the  rifle.  There  was  nothing  in  front  of  him  but  the  water  and,  fifteen  miles  distant,  the  island  of  Manitou.  He  ele-  vated  the  end  of  the  barrel,  curled  his  forefinger  around  the  trigger,  hesitated,  then  let  his  breath  go.  f  The  expanse  of  water  almost  si-  lenced  the  report.  Therewas  only  a  faint  slap  of  a  sound,  like  fingertips  on  skin,  as  he  fired  the  last  round  from  his  waist,  sending  the  bullet  out  over  the  open  lake. "