 b"FROM  time  to  time,  here  in  Cos  FCob,  I  receive  correspondence  from  a  young  [REDACTED]  actor-  philosophe  who  would  probably  be  tempted  to  become  a  dropout  from  life  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  he  has  never  really  dropped  in.  Here  is  his  latest  letter:  DEar  Frank:  Enclosed  is  twenty-five  bills  in  par-  tial  payment  of  what  I  owe  you,  so  that  the  good  old  edge  of  husbandry  won't  be  dulled  too  much.  So  far  it's  been,  if  not  a  long  cool  summer,  at  least  a  cool  one,  except  for  a  few  things  I'll  tell  you  about  later.  Bibi  has  been  playing  summer  stock  in  La-  guna  Beach.  They're  doing  &quot;T're-  lawny  of  the  Wells,&quot;  but  she  makes  it  up  here  all  the  time  on  her  Yamaha,  and  we've  been  grooving  pretty  good.  I  fell  by  this  peace  march  out  in  [REDACTED]  L.A.  protesting  [REDACTED],  or  what  is  known  as  the  Thirty  Years  War,  and  all  I  want  to  say  is  I  have  never  seen  such  an  undisciplined,  howling  mob-we  can't  allow  police  to  congregate  in  such  numbers  without  control.  Maybe  you  saw  me  on  TV.  I     had  this  placard  reading,  &quot;How  Many  566965746e616dese  Fought  at  [REDACTED]?  ,&quot;  which  was  probably  too  much  forthe  fuzzies  and  lip-movers  to  dig.  Muham-  mad  Ali  was  there  but  he  didn't  march.  As  it  turned  out,  we  could  have  used  him.  The  trouble  with  marches  is  you  have  to  come  back  the  next  day  to  protest  police  brutal-  ity.  Then  you  have  to  make  it  to  all  the  different  courts  all  over  town,  where  the  cats  who  got  busted  are  being  arraigned,  to  protest.  Then  if  the  city  council  won't  investigate  you  have  to  picket  them.  Then  1f  you  get  pushed  around  in  the  picket  line  you  have  to  organize  another  demo  to  pro-  test  that.  This  leaves  you  very  little  time  to  do  anything  else  but  fall  in  bed  and  crash.  On  top  of  that,  you  get  hooked  on  the  protest  press.  The  Free  Press  out  here  says  dig  the  Oracle,  because  they're  rapping  about  something  this  week  that's  really  the  straight  gouge.  The  Oracle  says  don't  miss  Open  City.  Open  City  says  Krassner  has  really  blown  his  mind  and  don't  miss  the  Realist,  whereupon  Krassner  says  fall  by  and  lay  on  to  the  Berkeley  Barb,  they're  really  rapping  from  the  heart.  So  now  you  don't  even  have  crash  time.  Saturday,  I  saw  Warhol's  &quot;Chelsea  Girls.&quot;  'This  little  micro-bopper  who  lives  next  door  asked  me  how  I  liked  it  and  I  said,  &quot;Which  side  of  the  screen?&quot;  Oh,  one  more  thing.  My  Chinese  buddy  Roscoe  Yi  just  came  back  from  Haight-Ashbury,  where  Haight  is  love.  Roscoe  is  pure  Baroque;  everybody  else  is  &quot;Whitey&quot;  to  him.  He  claims  he's  designing  a  sports  car,  using  the  &quot;Quotations  of  Chairman  Mao&quot;  as  a  blueprint,  but  you  never  know-he's  pretty  good  with  the  put-on.  When  he  needsbread  he  gets  fifty  Free  Presses  fora  nickel  each  and  then  sells  them  for  fifteen  cents,  making  a  fast  fiver.  I  tried  to  talk  him  into  getting  a  rngular  job  through  the  Hlppy  Job  Co-op.  &quot;People  like  you  are  in,  man,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Climb  on,  cash  in,  and  cop  out.&quot;  But  he  thinks  rcgular  i  gie  bummer.  One  day  he  went  down  to  the  small  Bourbon  duchy  of  Santa  Ana  to  sell  his  papers,  and  got  busted  for  no  license  or  some  crazy  thing.  If  it  wasn't  that,  they'd  make  up  something.  They  put  him  in  the  slammer  overnight,  but  the  Diggers  Creative  Society  on  Highland  made  bail  for  him.  The  Diggers  are  a  group  that  believe  the  root  of  all  money  is  evil.  I  picked  up  Roscoe  and  pointed  out  to  him  that  Flower  Power  doesn't  go  over  so  big  in  some  of  these  outlying  burbs,  where  they  still  think  that  morn-  ing  glories  are  to  look  at.  Also,  I'm  sure  they  didn't  dig  his  &quot;Home  Rule  for  Wales&quot;  sweatshirt.  Anyway,  I  told  him  the  grass  always  looks  more  golden  on  the  other  side  of  the  fence.  Now  he's  got  a  job  in  one  of  the  head  shops,  and  he  swears  he's  nevergoing  to  step  outside  [REDACTED]  Village  again.  The  reason  I  can  partly  pay  you  back  is  I  got  a  little  break.  (As  Walter  Matthau  says,  all  you  need  in  show  business  is  twenty-seven  good  breaks.)  First  I  got  a  bit  in  one  of  those  movies  made  especially  for  TV.  I  did  this  battle  scene,  and  I'm  here  to  say  that  few  men  die  well  who  die  in  battle  scenes.  I  think  these  movies  made  for  TV  are  great.  That  way,  you  can  turn  off  two  hours  at  once.  Next  I  got  a  part  in  what  you  might  call  an  &quot;over-  ground&quot;  movie-huge  budget  and  lots  of  stars.  Except  you  can't  recognize  any  of  them.  It's  called  &quot;Planet  of  the  Frog  Men,&quot;  and  it's  being  shot  out  at  the  Fox  Ranch.  Just  about  everybody  has  to  be  made  up  to  look  like  space-  amphibians,  and  the  makeup  geniuses  have  this  sort  of  plastic  gunk  they  lay  on  you  so  you  can  smile  and  eat  and  " b"everything,  just  like  Earthlings.  They  got  about  two  hundred  makeup  men  on  the  job,  and  it  takes  two  and  a  half  hours  to  make  you  up  and  one  and  a  half  hours  to  take  it  off,  which  you  can  see  doesn't  leave  much  time  for  film-  making.  One  night  when  we've  wrapped  it  up  it  occurs  to  me  that  there's  got  to  be  something  better  than  this.  So  I  just  leave  the  damn  makeup  on,  slip  out  of  there,  and  hop  on  my  bike.  I  look  like  Toad  on  wheels.  I've  got  this  helmet  with  a  plastic  visor,  so  I  figure  that  will  cover  my  face.  I  needn't  have  worried.  In  the  L.A.  rush  hour  I  could  have  been  a  pink  platypus  and  no  one  would  have  tum-  bled.  The  only  sin  you  can  commit  out  here  at  that  time  of  day  is  to  go  too  slow  orbe  indecisive  with  your  turn  indicator.  Well,  that  night  I  had  to  go  to  this  bash  on  Stone  [REDACTED]  Road,  but  that  was  no  problem.  It  was  mostly  these  cats  down  from  Topanga  [REDACTED],  some  of  the  wildest  tripped-out  studs  and  girls.  They're  sort  of  mountain  longhairs.  There  was  this  girl  there  who  wore  nothing  but  body  makeup,  but  I'm  sorry  to  say  I  really  upstaged  her.I  was  #,  man-a  suave  batrachian  figure  in  a  Gustav  Mahler  sweatshirt  and  Foster  Grant  shades.  I  received  seventeen  invitations  and  three  propo-  sitions.  It  was  a  nice  clean  party,  too.  If  anybody  wanted  to  get  stoned  the  guy  who  owned  the  pad  made  them  go  up  on  the  roof.  Juice-heads  drank  Red  Mountain,  and  we  sort  of  did  the  I  Ching  thing,  getting  a  Jeane  Dixon  at  our  futures  through  a  system  of  in-  scrutable  hexagrams.  According  to  the  Kun  Hexagram,  there  will  be  advan-  tage  for  me  in  appointing  feudal  princes,  but  I  should  not  follow  deer  without  the  guidance  of  a  forester.  We  also  sat  in  the  full  Lotus  and  laid  on  a  little  Tao,  breathing  in  hate  and  breathing  out  love.  I  also  learned  that  the  Tao  that  can  be  spoken  is  not  the  true  Tao.  The  Tao  that  can  be  Taoed  is  not  the  true  Tao,  either.  Then  we  got  to  rapping  about  the  death  bag,  and  some  cat  pointed  out  that  death  is  common  only  to  the  higher  forms  of  life,  be-  ginning  with  multicellular  protozoa.  Kind  of  makes  you  proud  to  be  mortal.  HE  next  morning-in  that  jin-  gle-jangle  morning-it  was  quite  a  shock  when  I  looked  in  the  mirror.  I'd  forgot  about  that  damned  frog  makeup.  For  a  brief  panicky  moment  I  thought  there  had  been  an  impurity  in  my  philtre  and  I  was  regressing  like  Hyde.  Like,  I've  had  bum  trips,  but  this  was  too  much.  Then  I  started  to shave,  only  to  find  that  Norelco  twin  rotors  don't  work  on  frog  chins.  I  took  my  time  leaving,  because  I  was  really  oneup  on  those  poor  schlucks  who  had  to  be  remade  that  morning  at  the  lot.  Going  down  the  stairs  I  ran  into  the  nice  lady  who  manages  the  place,  and  what  I  mean  she  really  spooked  and  was  long  gone.  I  said,  &quot;Everybody  out  of  the  pool,&quot;  but  she  was  beyond  levity.  Best  make  tracks,  I  figured,  and  fill  her  in  later,  before  she  arrives  with  the  heat.  As  I  kicked  the  starter  on  my  bike  I  realized  I'd  forgot  my  helmet.  No  time.  I  headed  over  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  to  the  lot,  puffing  on  a  Lark  and  occasion-  ally  crying  &quot;Love!&quot;  over  the  roar  of  the  greasepaint.  None  of  the  commuters  got  too  up  tight.  Probably  figured  I  was  a  freaker  left  over  from  the  night  be-  fore.It  was  really  a  gas.  Then,  on  Ventura  Blyd.,  the  gas  ended.  I  mean,  I  ran  out.  Kapoom.  I  walked  to  this  station  about  a  hundred  yards  up,  and  the  attendant  is  sitting  in  the  office.  As  I  come  in  he  confronts  me  with  this  huge  cannon  and  yells,  &quot;Oh,  no  you  don't!  Not  again'&quot;  At  that  point  my  general  adaptation  syn-  drome  took  over,  and  I  remembered  that  holdup  men  out  here  like  to  get  themselves  up  in  Halloween  raiment.  I  backed  slowly  out  the  door  and  then  ran  like  the  clappers,  with  my  frog  toes  kicking  dust  spots  on  the  green.  A  moving  target  is  almost  impossi-  ble  to  zap  with  a  revolver-just  don't  get  too  close  to  the  barrel,.  How  was  I  to  know,  as  I  later  found  out,  that  this  cat  had  been  hit  three  times  in  one  month?  (All  I  can  remember  running  through  my  mind  at  the  time  was,  What  wouldGypsy  Boots  have  done?  )  Then  I  dodged  into  a  liquor  store.  Any  ninety-eight-cent  port  in  a  storm.  The  resident  djinn  there  pulls  a  Mike  Hammer  heater  from  under  the  count-  er  and  says  (I'll  swear),  &quot;Oh,  no  you  don't!  Not  again'!&quot;  So  just  take  the  preceding  escape  footage  and  print  it  again.  Now  I'm  beginning  to  panic.  Ac-  cidental  death  and  disfiguration  while  in  frog  drag  is  not  in  my  plans.  It  was  then  I  spotted  this  beer  place,  the  7-11  Club,  where  I  know  the  day  bartender.  His  name  is  Angel.  As  I  open  the  door  and  take  one  step  for-  ward  I  can  see  Angel,  one  eye  on  me,  grabbing  for  something  beneath  the  bar.  Not  again,  I  think.  I  yelled,  &quot;Hey,  Angel!  It's  me,  man!  Race!&quot;  He  stares  at  me  about  thirty,  forty  seconds  without  changing  expression,  the  way  Newman  and  Brando  do  when  they  don't  know  what  else  to  do.  Then  he  says,  &quot;Where  were  you  born?&quot;  &quot;Sioux  Falls,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;What's  your  girl's  name?&quot;  &quot;Bibi,&quot;  I  told  him.  He  says  what's  the  big  idea,  and  I  tell  him.  He  says,  &quot;Get  that  junk  off  your  face,  man-this  place  is  already  on  probation  with  ABC.&quot;  I  told  him  I  couldn't  get  it  off  with-  " b"out  taking  half  my  face  with  it.  (You  have  to  have  some  special  solvent  glop.)  I  said,  &quot;Look,  you  go  down  and  get  my  bike.  Get  a  half  gallon  of  gas  at  the  station  on  the  way.  I'll  stay  here  and  tend  bar.&quot;  Well,  it's  early  morning  and  you'd  figure  there'd  be  no  trade,  but  that  doesn't  mean  a  thing  in  the  7-11  bars  of  the  world.  You  know  the  place:  dusty  neon  sign  in  win-  dow  with  one  letter  out,  fake  beer  bottles  with  cobwebs  along  the  bottom,  dead  moths,  and  a  sign  tacked  on  the  door  reading,  &quot;You  Must  Be  21  and  Able  to  Prove  It.&quot;  Beer-  Nuts  on  the  counter  shelf,  a  Rorschach-test  pattern  of  cig-  arette  burns  on  the  bar,  and  apool  table  that  takes  two  quarters.  Anyway,  directly  in  comes  this  old  juice-head  and  he  says,  &quot;Draw  one,&quot;  without  so  much  as  a  double  take-or  even  a  single.  Knocks  it  heel-  tap  back  and  orders  another.  I  guess  he  figured  it  was  Frog  Week  at  the  7-11,  and  why  should  he  look  for  trouble.  Pretty  soon  there's  five  of  them  sitting  there,  and  while  I  can't  exactly  say  it's  a  love-  in,  neither  did  I  hear  one  word  to  indicate  that  I  was  born  different  from  other  men.  I  chalked  this  up  to  their  inborn  humanity  and  tact.  You  won't  find  much  jesting  at  scars  among  the  morning  walking  wounded.  But  then  these  two  piano  lifters  from  Bekins  Moving  &amp;  Storage  came  in  off  a  bad  trip  and  were  not  amused.  They  began     making  remarks.  I  tried  to  change  the  mood  by  singing  a  He  Would  A-Wooing  Go,&quot;  when  I  got  to  &quot;  few  bars  of  &quot;A  Frog  but  just  .  with  a  roley,  poley,  helmet  from  over  the  counter,  and  to  be  thirty-eight  years  old,  getting  this  sort  of  helped  disguise  my  am-  phibian  features.  I  bugged  out  on  my  machine.  All  I  needed  was  one  of  those  thick  in  the  neck,  six  years  with  Stella  Adler  behind  you,  and  wake  up  to  remember  you're  due  on  the  lot  in  an  gammon  and  spinach,  'Heigh-ho!'  says  Anthony  Roley,&quot;  they  hopped  over  the  bar  and  put  an  armlock  on  me.  They  shoved  my  head  under  the  beer-  pull  and  were  about  to  drown  me  in  Budweiser.  I  had  a  picture  of  making  one  of  those  freak  death  items  in  the  prints  (&quot;BARTENDER  DROWNED  IN  BEER&quot;  ),  when  Angel  arrived  and  got  them  off  my  back  by  telling  them  I  was  very  big  in  pictures  and  they  would  recognize  my  face  if  they  could  only  see  it,  and  then  promising  them  unlimited  suds.  Angel  lent  me  this  old  Wehrmacht  big  choppers  with  the  high-rise  handle-  bars  the  bike  freaks  ride,  and  you  would  have  sworn  I  was  a  charter  member  of  Satan's  Slaves  or  the  Coffin  Cheaters.  At  the  lot,  I  found  shooting  was  scrubbed  for  the  day.  Technical  dif-  ficulties  With  one  of  the  male  stars,  I  think.  I  mean,  how  would  you  like   hour  to  play  Prince  Bufo  emerging  from  under  a  gigantic  outer-space  lily  pad?  So  all  I  had  to  do  was  peel  this  stuff  off  my  face  and  make  for  Santa  Monica  and  lie  on  the  sand  and  study  my  sides  in  the  script.  Going  out  the  studio  gate,  this  guy  I  knew  from  the  Player's  Ring  in  Santa  Monica  falls  in  beside  me  and  says,  &quot;Four  hours  a  day  in  makeup.  Man,  why  don't  we  just  leave  the  stuff  on?&quot;  &quot;It's  been  done,&quot;  I  said.  Straight  ahead!  Race  "