 b"IF  I  were  to  have  my  way,  every   window  of  this  house  would  be  open  this  evening,  and  all  the  lights  would  be  on.  The  last  glow  in  the  west  is  gone-only  just  gone-and  the  quarter  moon  is  up.  A  summer  breeze  off  the  Sound,  carrying  the  smell  of  the  water,  is  rustling  the  elms  and  the  maples,  cooling  them.  But  the  house  is  closed,  as  it  has  been  for  two  weeks.  On  such  a  night,  there  should  be  children  in  and  about  it,  any  chil-  dren  at  all.  My  young  brothers  and  sisters,  or  Isabel's  and  my  youngsters,  or  our  grandchildren-up  and  down  the  stairs,  on  the  porch  and  in  the  yard,  up  and  down  the  block  hooting  like  ban-  shees.  It's  a  comforting  sound  when  there's  not  too  much  of  it.  For  close  to  seventy  years,  ever  since  we  left  Scot-  land,  there  have  been  children  here-  one  lot  or  another.  I  suppose  I  tend  to  dwell  unduly  on  the  past,  but  my  mind  does  keep  turning  back,  do  what  I  will.  And  what  else  should  I  do,  cooped  up  herewith  no  notion  of  what's  com-  ing  next?  Not  to  put  too  fine  apoint  on  it,  dying's  a  confounded  nuisance.  I've  learned  that-and  that's  all  I've  learned-from  the  transition.  Two  weeks.  A  man  loses  control.  The  house  is  precisely  as  I  left  it  when  I  crossed  over  into  this  odd  dimension.  No  one  has  come  to  it,  and  I  have  no  way  of  calling  people  here  for  company.  I'm  not  certain  what  I  was  expecting  when  the  time  to  cross  should  come,  but  I'm  sure  it  was  more  elaborate  than  this.  More  edifying.  Could-someone-  have  blundered?  Mislaid  me?  It  seems  hardly  likely.  My  father  believed  in  the  conventional  after-  life-streets  of  gold  and  pearly  gates  for  the  qualified-and  I  suppose  that  in  a  more,  well,  diffuse  way,  so  did  I.  I  certainly  count-  ed  on  extensive  revela,  tion,  for  one  thing.  But-nothing.  My  head's  in  a  mix.  How  did  I  die,  for  instance?  Ah,  yes.  Carelessness.  I  got  a  rather  bad  bump  climbing  out  of  my  morning  tub.  Cracked  my  stupid  neck,  and  here  I  am.  My  father  always  regarded  a  cold  morning  tub  as  first-  ratefor  one's  circula-  tion-small  matter  now  -to  say  nothing  of  one'scharacter,  and  he  lived  to  a  con-  siderable  age,  well  past  my  eighty-five.  Eighty-five.  Is  it  possible?  We  left  the  old  country  when  I  was  seventeen,  aft-  er  my  mother  died.  I  can't  remember  the  year,  but  I  recall  exactly  how  all  the  others  looked  then.  We  were  a  close  family,  on  whichever  side  of  the  water.  Well,  well.  I  did  at  least  hope  to  find  some  of  the  others  here.  I'm  the  last  to  come.  And  surely  I  expected  Isabel.  A  man  looks  for  his  wife,  in  the  circumstances.  And  I've  looked.  I've  been  through  the  house  and  through  the  house,  and  I've  scoured  the  three  blocks  of  our  little  street.  I  don't  know  how-that  I  am  limited  to  that.  The  one  person  I've  come  on  is  foolish  Johnny  Rickaby.  In  the  carnate  sphere,  he  was  only  a  neighbor  a  cut  below  the  neighborhood-a  railroad  sort  of  man,  as  well  as  a  bigamist,  though  we  didn't  learn  that  until  he  died.  He  kept  an  entire  second  family  in  [REDACTED],  forty  miles  away  on  the  New  Haven-  too  close  for  comfort,  I  should  have  thought,  and  so  it  proved.  The  alter-  nate  wife  shot  him.  He's  told  me  there  are  other  discarnates  round  about.  I  can't  say  I'm  anxious  to  know  them,  but  all  of  them,  e/  of  them,  have  occu-  pations.  Assignments.  Johnny's  is  a  trifling  one-he  merely  moans  con-  tritely  on  windy  nights  and  in  rain-  storms-but  he's  got  it,  and  I  have  none!  I  never  believed  in  haunting  and  all  that  rubbish,  but  if  it's  what  we  do,  and  it  seems  to  be,  I  should  like  to  take  part.  Everything  here-every-  thing  about  me-seems  suspended.  I  can't  get  away  from  feeling  that  there has  been  a  mistake-that  I've  been  de-  livered  in  some  queer  way  into  the  wrong  dimension.  I  must  make  in-  quiries.  But  of  whom?  ..  .  Hold  on.  What's  this?  A  great  swarm  of  cor-  poreals  (how  one's  terminology  ex-  pands!)  at  the  door  and  bursting  in.  The  children-my  whole  tribe  is  com-  ing  here  together,  and  high  time.  The  place  has  been  as  silent  as  the-  Well,  yes.  I  suppose  that's  apt.  At  any  rate,  I'm  glad  to  have  a  look  at  them  all  again.  But-quickly-I  must  sort  them  out.  It  would  never  do  not  to  know  them,  and  I  can't  always  find  a  name  on  the  spur  of  the  moment.  The  big  man's  William.  No  mistaking  him,  though  he's  thinning  out  on  top;  I  kept  my  hair  the  whole  journey.  He  was  named  for  me  and  for  his  grand-  father  and  Ais  father.  I  wonder  how  many  William  Gillespies  there  have  been.  He  was  an  obedient  boy-hand-  some,  his  mother  sometimes  said  in  con-  fidence,  though  I  was  never  concerned  with  appearances.  He  flew  up  from  his  Mexican  holiday  when  I  passed  on,  then  hurried  back  to  finish  his  fishing.  I  suppose  there's  no  harm  in  that,  but  it's  why  the  place  has  been  shut.  Of  course.  The  rest  waited  for  him,  quite  properly;  he's  the  new  head  of  the  family.  So  I  fancy  they'll  want  to  go  digging  through  my  things  soon-mine  and  Isabel's.  I  never  would  let  anyone  touch  hers,  but  I  daresay  I  can't  stop  it  now.  Here's  Alison,  the  next  eldest,  marching  upstairs  already.  She  had  lovely  black  ringlets  that  curled  tight  when  the  weather  was  damp.  A  thicket  of  them.  I  often  thought  Isabel  was  too  stern  with  her.  Then  Andrew.  A  handful-the  one  I  had  to  punish  the  most,  but  he  turned  out  quite  satisfactori-  ly.  He's  tapping  the  walls  and  windowsills.  Why,  this  is  Ais  house  now;  William  refused  it  for  reasons  of  his  own.  It's  a  rock-solid  house.  Ah,  well.  And  what  is  the  name  of  Andrew's  wife  again?  Helen.  She's  neat  and  pert  enough  so  far,  but  she's  the  kind  to  wizen  in  due  course.  And  their  little  ones  are  called  Charles  and  Vio-  let.  Little!  Great  young  brutes  in  ceaseless  mo-  tion-but  good  chil-  dren,  good  children.  They  both  came  in  from  Rutgers  for  the  " b"obsequies.  There.  I  must  keep  them  all  straight-but,  suddenly,  I  wonder  why.  There's  no  need.  They  don't  know,  and  they  won't  know,  I  am  here.  And  maybe  I  shan't  be.  I  should  set  about  making  my  inquiries,  if  only-  again-of  Johnny  Rickaby.  Something  is  wrong;  I  am  caught  between  lives.  Surely  one  ought  at  least  to  find  new  knowledge  and  old  friends  here,  per-  haps  a  whole  new  landscape.  Some  such.  Surely.  But  who  is  the  man  following  Alison  up  the  stair,  keeping  his  hat  on?  Not  a  friend,  I  trust.  I'll  just  go  along.  No  sooner  thought  than  done-into  the  rear  bedroom  in  a  twinkling.  A  handy  trick.  So  the  man  drives  a  truck  for  the  Salvation  Army,  does  he?  He's  to  be  back  at  nine  in  the  morning  with  his  helpers.  And  what  are  they  to  do?  &quot;I  can  take  this  here,&quot;  he  says,  whacking  his  fat  hand  on  William's  little  bed-  stead-William's,  then  Alison's,  then  Andrew's.  Can  he,  indeed!  I  bought  it  at  John  Wanamaker's  in  1925.  &quot;I  couldn't  use  that,&quot;  he  says,  in  his  grunting  way.  &quot;Falling  to  pieces.&quot;  My  father's  Morris  chair?  A  bit  shaky  in  the  joints,  but  nothing  a  few  knocks  of  a  hammer  wouldn't  put  right.  Who's  he  to  refuse?  More  to  the  point,  who  is  he  to  accept  any  of  our  belongings?  For  what?  ...  I  can  answer,  I  suppose.  For  theSalvation  Army.  For  strangers.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  says  Alison.  &quot;Now,  if  you'll  come  along  here-&quot;  If  no  one  happens  to  want  a  thing  just  at  the  moment,  must  it  be  tossed  away?  A  serviceable  thing?  An  old  thing?  The  truck  driver  and  Alison  are  going  into  Isabel's  and  my  room,  the  room  I-left  from.  I  think  I  will  not  go  along  with  them.  I  will  go  out.  I  must  find  Isabel.  I  will  ask  Johnny  to  help  me  hunt  for  her  again.  He  has  been  most  obliging  about  that,  this  fort-  night,  though  I  still  cannot  condone  his  former  way  of  life.  I  will  look  up  the  others  he  says  are  out  there  and  ask  if  they  have  seen  her-a  small  young  woman,  quick,  very  light  in  her  move-  ments,  gray  eyes,  dark  hair  pulled  to  a  coil  at  the  back  of  her  neck.  No-that  is  an  early  likeness,  though  itis  how  I  see  her  most  clearly  nowadays.  In  any  case,  I  must  find  her.  She  should  be  here,  forI  have  quite  lost  control.  IT  is  morning.  Nearly  time  for  the  wretched  Salvation  Army  man  and  his  skulking  helpers.  Time  for  my  im-  29  mediate  descendants  to  give  my  things  away.  I  must  stay  to  see  what  hap-  pens-not  lose  my  head  again,  as  I  did  last  night.  Isabel  was  nowhere;  no  one  had  seen  her-neither  Johnny,  nor  the  Miss  Billings  who  keeps  a  guttering  candle  in  a  window,  waiting  fifty  years  for  her  scoundrel  brother  to  come  home,  nor  the  sculptor  from  the  attic  of  what,  for  a  great  while,  was  the  only  house  besides  ours  on  this  street.  (The  carnates  in  Miss  Billings'  place  think  she's  a  street-light  reflection;  the  sculp-  tor  says  his  people  have  decided  he's  loose  clapboards.)  No  onehad  seen  Isa-  bel,  but  that  was  not  a  fit  reason  for  me  to  try  to  escape-run  off  to  more  favorable  regions,  where  matters  might  make  sense.  And  where  she  might  be.  One  step  past  the  corner  at  the  far  end  of  the  block,  and  back  I  was,  like  a  shot,  in  my  own  parlor.  Whoever's  in  charge  seems  to  know  of  me,  at  least,  if  that's  a  comfort.  Johnny  counsels  pa-  tience.  He  is  quite  informative,  and  I  would  be  lost  without  him.  There  are  various  sorts  of  assignments,  it  seems.  Some  are  active-re\xc3\xa9nactments  of  one's  colorful  demise  or  purple  sin,  all  quite  lurid  to  carnates.  Others  are  simpler;  they  are  for  those  ofus  who  must  wait  " b" until  we  have  found  our  proper  occu-  pations.  It  takes  a  bit.  He  is  confident  I  will  come  upon  Isabel  when  I  have  found  my  proper  assignment  for  myself,  and  not  before.  Here  come  William  and  all  the  rest.  They  said  last  night  it  would  take  them  five  days  to  &quot;close&quot;  the  house.  No  doubt  they  meant  empty  it.  Filling  went  on  a  mite  longer.  How  busily  they  go  about  it!  &quot;I  think  we  should  sort  out  the  big  things  first-the  furniture  and  so  on,&quot;  says  Alison.  &quot;'The  rest  is  what  will  take  time.  The  stuff  in  the  closets  and  drawers.&quot;  The  stuff.  There's  a  great  closed  truck  coming  in  the  drive,  but  it's  not  the  Salvation  fellow's.  No,  worse.  A  hired  scavenger.  He'll  take  what's  not  good  enough  for  the  other  one.  The  Morris  chair.  Young  Charles  has  been  chosen  to  burn  what  will  burn  of  what's  left.  Of  the  stuff.  He's  started  his  fire  at  the  end  of  the  garden  where  Isabel  raised  herbs.  Itwill  do  them  no  harm;  they've  been  gone  two  years,  as  she  has.  I  miss  her  greatly-I  begin  to  miss  her  more  than  ever  before.  It's  odd.  Much  of  the  time,  it  has  seemed  as  if  she  were  only  in  an-  other  room,  still  busy  among  the  things,  the  facts,  of  the  life  that  used  to  goon  here-the  things  now  taking  their  leave  of  the  house  and  me.  No,  that's  not  fair-not  fair  at  all.  I  have  left  them.  But  in  a  way,  while  they  were  here,  all  in  their  proper  places,  so  was  she.  I  do  not  want  to  stay  here.  I  do  not  especially  want  to  think  about  Isabel,  either,  but  in  spite  of  my-  self  I  see  her  on  the  day  that  we  moved  in.  She  ran  through  the  whole  house  again  and  again,  planning,  planning-  tipsy  with  the  prospect  ofso  much  space.  Ten  rooms,  attic,  and  basement.  Her  hair  was  flying.  Most  uncommon.  I  always  felt  a  bit  of  dishevelment  be-  came  her,  now  and  again,  provided  she  was  happy.  She  was  likely  to  sing  cheery  hymns  at  such  times,  and  that  day  she  was  singing  them:  &quot;Joy  Cometh  in  the  Morning.&quot;  &quot;We  Shall  Meet  on  That  Beautiful  Shore.&quot;  (Yes.  Perhaps.  We'll  take  that  thought  to  avizandum,  as  my  father  used  to  say.  Under  advisement.)  William  and  Alison  were  small,  and  Andrew  wasn't  born.  We'd  been  living  in  a  cocoon  of  a  house  over  in  White  Plains,  stretch-  ing  it  to  bursting.  But  here  there  was  to  be  room  for  every  last  chattel  and  to  spare,  on  top  of  all  that  Father  had  left-well,  no,  not  exactly  that.  We  got  rid  of  a  few  things,  I  suppose.  Sold  some.  Gave  some  away.  Got-rid.  Salvation  Army,  if  I'm  not  mistaken,  as  I  earnestly  hope  I  am.  Well,  well.  But  we  did  keep  the  Morris  chair.  It  stood  beside  the  fireplace  for  years,  just  as  when  Father  was  alive.  This  room-  this  second  parlor-has  always  re-  mained  much  the  same.  Isabel  would  try  to  rearrange  it  from  time  to  time,  but  if  she  succeeded  at  all  the  children  would  howl.  Look  at  them  now!  One  by  one,  they  scatter  through  the  house  from  basement  to  attic,  rum-  maging,  hunting,  dividing,  consigning  whatever  they  find  to  each  other  or  the  trash  piles  or  the  fire-and  I  roam  from  this  room  to  the  next,  watching  them  almost  against  my  will  and  cer-  tainly  against  my  better  judgment.  Alisonhas  got  at  my  dresser  draw-  ers.  She's  throwing  out  half  my  shirts.  &quot;How  he  hung  on  to  things!&quot;  she  says,  not  unkindly,  I  must  grant,  though  the  kindness  seems  needlessly  indulgent.  Now  she's  come  across  the  little  packet  of  Isabel's  keepsakes  that  I  brought  from  her  drawer  to  mine  some  time  ago-a  child's  garnet  ring,  a  church  calendar  announcing  William's  high-  school  honors,  the  box  of  &quot;Golden  Thoughts&quot;  Isabel's  mother  gave  her  when  we  were  married.  I  used  to  laugh  at  her  using  it,  but  the  thoughts  are  reasonably  golden.  Shakespeare  and  Scripture,  mostly,  though  Browning  and  Marcus  Aurelius  and  other  worthies  get  in.  Three  hundred  and  sixty-five  of  them,  on  rolled  ribbons  of  paper,  standing  packed  in  their  little  box,  to  be  taken  out  one  aday,  like  pills.  Isabel  went  through  the  lot  of  them  several  times,  especially  in  periods  of  stress.  Alison  is  putting  them  among  the  things  she  doesn't  know  what  to  do  with-doesn't  want  to  keep  and  isn't  quite  ready  to  throw  out.  Andrew  has  brought  a  full  basket  down  from  the  attic.  A  conference  is  called.  William  comes  up  from  the  basement.  He  wants  my  father's  little  telescope,  but  they  are  doing  away  with  my  Ingersoll  watch  and  the  picture  of  my  glee  club.  What's  to  blame?  The  watch  was  the  first  I  ever  bought  myself,  soI  kept  it,  but  its  works  are  long  since  dead,  as  are  most  of  the  members  of  the  glee  club.  Old  photos-  old  photos  without  number  from  the  trunks  up  there.  Out  go  the  people  not  recognized;  the  others  go  to  whoever  speaks  for  them  first.  Every-     " b"one  is  polite.  &quot;No,  you  take  it-I'm  sure  it  means  more  to  you.&quot;  But  they  don't  really  care,  I  fancy.  They'll  look  at  them  once  in  a  half-dozen  years,  though  I  can't  say  we  looked  at  them  oftener.  Still,  they  were  here.  They  were  part  of  it  all.  Andrew  has  found  a  poem  he  wrote  on  his  twelfth  birth,  day-&quot;Father  Time  is  fleet  of  foot,&quot;  and  so  on.  They're  laughing  fit  to  kill.  I've  alwaysthought  it  very  good  for  twelve.  William  goes  to  the  attic,  and  down  come  bundles  of  letters-mine  to  Isabel,  chiefly,  when  I've  had  to  be  away.  She  saved  all  letters.  It's  decent  of  the  children  not  to  read  them,  I  suppose,  but-they're  going  to  the  fire.  To  tell  the  truth,I  feel  almost  as  if  I  were  going  with  them.  Departing  piece  by  piece.  Vanishing  into  air.  But  I  am  still  here.  Where  is  Isabel?  I  wonder  if  we,  in  this  manifestation,  could  sometimes  be  expected  to  show  initiative.  To  volunteer  an  assignment.  Haunt  a  bit  on  one's  own.  Trial  and  error.  Who  knows?  I  may  decide  to  go  mad,  if  one  can  in  this  ridiculous  sphere.  It  seems  more  than  likely.  NOW  it  is  evening.  The  family  dinner  in  the  half-bare  dining  room  is  over.  The  scavenger  will  be  back  tomorrow.  The  Salvation  Army,  gorged,  is  apparently  gone  for  good.  What  Alison  calls  &quot;the  big  things&quot;  have  been  taken  away  or  are  standing  forlorn,  waiting  to  be  moved  to  her  house  or  William's,  or  to  stay  and  mingle  with  Andrew's  more  up-to-  date  furnishings.  Charles  has  covered  his  fire.  He  plans  to  mend  the  Morris  chair  and  take  it  to  his  room  in  New  Brunswick-chiefly  as  a  conversation  piece,  it  would  appear.  I  always  thought  it  a  good,  useful  design.  And  Morris  was  a  poet  of  some  consequence.  I  have  tried  standing  in  the  stairway  niche,  where  Andrew,  when  he  was  small  and  on  his  way  to  bed,  used  to  insist  he  saw  a  figure  watching  him.  Perhaps  he  did.  No  one  saw  me.  John-  ny  Rickaby  can  moan.  I  have  tried,  to  no  avail.  Others  can  materialize,  I'm  told.  Not  I.  The  children  are  all  in  the  front  parlor  now.  They  seem  re-  luctant  to  separate  and  go  to  other  parts  of  the  house,  as  they  did  during  daylight,  though  they  are  still  discussing  the  division  of  goods-silver  and  crys-  tal.  Each  has  a  drink  hard  by.  Whis-  key.  It  never  was  in  my  house.  This  afternoon,  they  broke  off  what  they  called  their  work,  and  had  a  drink  in  the  kitchen.  My  granddaughter,  glass  in  hand,  took  one  out  to  my  grandson  in  plain  view.  These  infants  are  permit-  ted  whiskey?  It  is  not  in  the  least  like Andrew  to  allow  it.  In  this  house!  But  it  is  no  longer  our  house.  I  feel  as  if  it  were  a  house  of  strangers.  Strangers  they  are,  for  certain.  Dear,  but  strange.  William  is  smiling  to  himself,  playing  idly  with  Isabel's  Golden  Thoughts,  taking  one  out,  reading  it,  putting  it  back.  Alison  is  smiling,  too,  and  crying  a  little.  &quot;'You  know,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;they  believed  these  things.  Both  of  them  believed  just  about  all  it  says  in  that  little  box.&quot;  And  somehow  she  speaks  as  if  she  were  crying  on  account  of  that,  even  more  than  for  us.  &quot;In  this  century!&quot;  she  says.  &quot;In  the  sixties!&quot;  &quot;They  were  pretty  old,  by  the  six-  ties,&quot;  Andrew  says.  Seventy-eight.  What  does  he  call  old?  &quot;I  don't  think  Dad  ever  really  quite  left  [REDACTED],&quot;  says  Alison.  &quot;If  you  know  what  I  mean.&quot;  I  earned  my  living,  and  a  decent  one,  in  [REDACTED]  for  forty  years  before  I  retired.  What's  she  talking  about?  They've  left  [REDACTED],  to  be  sure.  Threw  out  a  whole  box  of  tartan  swatches.  They  might  at  least  have  spared  the  MacPherson.  The  Gillespies  area  sept  of  the  MacPhersons.  &quot;'This  above  all,  to  thine  own  self  be  true,&quot;  &quot;  reads  William-rather  poor-  ly,  I  must  say.  Very  flat.  Very  matter-  of-fact.  &quot;'And  it  must  follow  as  the  night  the  day  ..  .J&quot;  Why,  yes,  I  did  believe  that,  I'm  sure.  I  would  have  thought  they  did.  What's  wrong  with  it?  &quot;Things  were  so  simple  for  them,&quot;  William  says.  &quot;So  black-and-white.&quot;  I  certainly  knew  right  from  wrong,  if  that's  what  he  means.  Doesn't  he?  We  taught  him.  We  taught  them  all.  Surely  we  were  not  mistaken.  Of  course  not.  &quot;Safe,&quot;  says  Andrew.  &quot;Secure.  All  the  answers  were  in.  I  guess  it  was  bet-  ter  for  them  to  think  so.  Dad  never  really  believed  the  last  fifty  years.  All  you  had  to  do  was  follow  the  well-  known  rules.  His  father's  rules,  for  God's  sake!  Take  acold  bath  in  the  morning,  pay  your  debts,  and  even  if  the  world  is  crazy  it  will  come  back  to  its  senses  in  due  course.&quot;  I  do  not  like  such  talk.  It  is  presump-  tuous.  Still,  from  this  vantage  point,  presumption  grows  less  important.  The  others  laugh  gently.  &quot;Poor  dears,&quot;  says  Alison.  Damn  it,  I  am  her  father!  William  shakes  his  head  and  goes  after  another  Golden  Thought.  Much  good  may  it  do  him.  I  will  try  once  more  to  escape.  No,  it  will  be  of  no  use.  It  is  infra  dig  " b"to  go  out  there  and  be  popped  inconti-  nently  back,  no  questions  asked  and  as-  suredly  none  answered.  WAy  am  I  popped  back?  Is  my  assignment  here?  At  any  rate,  I  do  not  wish  to  stay  any  longer  in  this  room.  HAVE  thought  myself  up  to  my  old  room,  Isabel's  and  mine  for  many-  yes,  many-thousands  of  nights.  Through  thebig  south  window,  one  can  see  the  Sound  out  beyond  the  trees.  This  has  always  been  a  good  place  to  stand  and  think  when  there's  something  to  think  about.  If  only  Isabel  were  here.  She  always  understood  the  children  bet-  ter  than  I  did,  though  she  had  no  trou-  ble  sorting  right  from  wrong.  But  have  I  always  been  as  sure  as  I  said  I  was?  I  can  afford  to  be  truthful.  When  you  see  your  life  shredded  away,  disappear-  ing  piece  by  piece,  you  must  stop  to  wonder  what  you  were.  The  children  speak  ofus  as  if  we  had  lived  on  another  planet.  I  had  no  idea  they  thought  of  us  as  they  do,  though,  to  be  sure,  I  never  was  any  more  privy  to  their  thoughts  than  they  were  to  those  I  have  thought  beside  this  window-not   all  of  which  were  by  the  rules.  They  never  knew  that  I  was  haled  into  court  once.  Debts.  A  business  matter.  I  let  the  lawyer  get  me  off,  though  I  never  have  been  sure  it  was  the  right  thing  to  do.  Who  can  always  be  sure?  Oh,  come!  I  don't  approve  of  such  thoughts.  But  if  that  can  be  asked,  what  can't?  Courts  of  law.  Yes.  Avizandum.  My  father  was  always  taking  matters  there-things  I  wanted  to  do  or  have.  &quot;We'll  take  it  to  avizandum,&quot;  he  would  say  when  I  asked  for  a  gun  or  a  bicycle  or  a  suit  of  clothes,  and  it  was  astonish-  ing  how  few  questions  ever  returned.  I  thought  of  it  as  a  place-shadowy,  glimmering,  nothing  clear,  nothing black-and-white,  as  my  son  William  would  put  it.  A  dispensing  oracle  lurked  there,  and  he  never,  or  almost  never,  rendered  a  verdict.  A  nonsensical  no-  tion,  but  then,  I  was  a  child.  It's  just  an  old  Scottish  law  term;  a  judge  may  take  a  case  out  of  court  and  under  his  own  scrutiny.  Ad  avizandum.  Tonight,  hearing  the  talk,  I  sudden-  ly  began  to  wonder  about  verdicts  theirs,  Isabel's,  mine.  Verdicts  of  all  sorts,  for  and  against;  they  have  certain-  ly  not  all  been  rendered.  I  will  have  to  stay  in  this  old  house  a  good  whilelong-  er,  watching  and  listening  as  the  chil-  dren  find  and  dispose  of  every  scrapof  our  lives,  little  and  large,  that  we  have  left  them.  The  stuff  of  our  lives.  Can  that  be  my  assignment?  I  fancy  it  can  be,  though,  if  so,  surely  I  oughtn't  to  be  alone.  She  should  be  with  me.  We  shared  it  all.  Mustn't  we  share  the  blame  for  what  we  see?  Or  the  credit?  Or  whatever?  The  assignment  should  be  joint-the  long  look  back,  the  reas-  sessment.  No?  No.  I  have  to  suppose  that  until,  or  unless,  she  comes,  I  had  best  see  to  it  myself.  I  must  go  back  downstairs. "