  Regions,&quot;  one  of  the  Theme  Pavilions  at  Expo  67,  I  happened  to  overhear  a  portly  chap  in  yellow  shorts  and  falling  knee  socks  remark  to  his  wife  that  he  was  getting  &quot;pretty  damn  tired  of  Man.&quot;  I  could  see  his  point,  all  right,  since  I  had  spent  the  better  part  of  three  days  viewing  &quot;Man  and  the  Oceans,&quot;  &quot;Man  and  Life,&quot;  &quot;Man  the  Provider,&quot;  &quot;Man  the  Creator,&quot;  &quot;Man  the  Producer,&quot;  and  other  exhibits  de-  voted  to  the  underlying  Expo  theme  of  &quot;Man  and  His  [REDACTED];  Interesting  as  these  were,  I  wonder  whether  the  port-  ly  chap  and  I  might  not  have  found  them  even  more  interesting  if  the  theme  people  had  seen  fit  to  throw  in  some  exhibits  that  came  a  trifle  closer  to  home-that  is,  to  the  world  that  he  and  I  inhabit  whenwe  are  not  at  a  World's  Fair.  I  have  some  suggestions  along  these  lines,  and,  with  theme-planning  for  the  1970  [REDACTED]  Exposition  going  in-  to  high  gear  right  now,  I  thought  I'd  bet-  ter  make  them  available  without  delay:  Max  tur  Home  OwNER  AND/OR  Lessor:  An  exhibition  devoted  to  household  hints  from  around  the  world.  Visitors  may  observe  homemakers  from  the  Ruanda-Urundi  laying  a  mud  floor,  Eskimos  quick-freezing  igloo  blocks,  Kazaks  thatching  a  yurt,  and  a  New  Jersey  householder  replacing  a  fuse.  A  specially  designed  Family  Communica-  tions  Center  will  bring  together  do-  mestic  economists  from  many  nations,  via  satel-  lite  television  relays,  to  discuss  the  latest  ad-  vances  in  second  mort-  gaging  and  spackling.  On  hand  to  answer  ques-  tions  will  be  three  of  North  America's  seven  living  handymen.  Max  tus  CommUT-  ER:  Entering  a  programmed,  multi-  media  &quot;environment,&quot;  the  visitor  takes  a  psychedelic  trip  that  includes  mind-  expanding  car-pool  repartee,  smoking-  car  aromas,  billboard  blur,  simulated  subway  lurch,  and  other  sensory  data  of  mass  transit.  Expert  commuters  offer  instruction  in  new  methods  of  news-  paper  folding  and  unsupported  balance  on  moving  trains,  while  Transit  Host-  esses  demonstrate  exciting  games  to  play  during  a  power  failure.  &quot;Com-  muter  Worldwide,&quot;  an  electronic  score-  board,  provides  a  graphic  demonstra-  tion  of  how  the  steadily  greater  time  spent  in  travelling  to  and  from  work     is  solving  the  problems  of  excessive  leisure  created  by  automation.  Max  anp  His  OrFricE:  The  saga  of  the  office,  presented  in  a  series  of  thrilling  audio-visual  displays  that  range  from  a  primitive  roadside  scribe's  of-  fiz  in  Mesopotamia  to  tomorrow's  or-  biting  water  coolers  for  civil  servants  in  outer  space,  In  the  Garden  of  Rub-  ber  Plants,  visitors  may  relax  and  re-  fresh  themselves  beside  prize-winning  typist  pools.  A  lifelike  styrene  robot  of  &quot;The  Boss&quot;  delivers  illustrated  lectures  on  Company  Raiding,  Market  Flood-  ing,  and  Brazilian  Extradition  Law,  and  visitors  to  the  ladies'  lounge  may  view  a  fifty-minute  Golden  Steno  Pad  Award  film  entitled  &quot;Great  Office  Romances  ofthe  Century.&quot;  Max  tur  Parent:  &quot;There  is  more  felicity  on  the  far  side  of  baldness  than  young  men  can  possibly  imagine&quot;--  Logan  Pearsall  Smith.  This  motto,  emblazoned  on  a  gigantic  icosahedron  replica  of  Dr.  Spock,  sets  the  tone  for  a  lighthearted  pavilion,  where  color-  ful  tableaux  vivants  symbolize  the  joys  and  rewards  of  parenthood.  These  in-  clude  &quot;Putting  on  the  Snowsuits,&quot;  &quot;'The  Rainy  Sunday,&quot;  &quot;Birthday  Par-  ties  at  the  Circus,&quot;  &quot;The  Hamsters  Escape,&quot;  &quot;Betty's  First  Eye  Shadow,&quot;  &quot;Dick  Turns  On  and  Drops  Out,&quot;  and  &quot;The  Children  Leave  Home  for  Good.&quot;  Max  tur  Hussanp:  At  the  en-  trance  to  what  may  well  be  the  Fair's  controversial  exhibit,  three-  dimensional  graphs  de-  pict  today's  husband  poised  on  the  threshold  of  a  new  matrimonial  era  while  he  looks  back  upon  centuries  of  con-  nubial  achievement.  Visi-  tors  enter  through  the  Cave  of  Matrimony,  on  whose  iridescent  walls  and  ceiling  the  long  upward  struggle  of  The  Husband  is  symbolically  presented  by  means  of  a  new  Czechoslovakian  film  technique  in-  volving  animated  statistics  and  live  dwarfs.  But  what  of  the  future?  In  a  husband-shaped  pavilion,  male  visitors  may  test  their  responses  to  the  challenge  of  the  Love  Generation,  and  decide  for  themselves  whether  semi-conscious  promiscuity,  now  favored  by  thirty-  seven  per  cent  of  [REDACTED]-born  hus-  bands  under  the  age  of  seventeen,  is  preferable  to  the  &quot;illicit&quot;  affair  of  our  forefathers'  day.  Similar  opportunities  will  be  available  to  wives,  in  a  wife-  shaped  pavilion.  No  visitor  may  make  most  the  circuit  more  than  twice,  and  mar-  ried  couples  who  are  still  together  at  the  close  of  the  experience  will  proceed  to  the  Puritan  Revival  Temple,  where  each  couple  will  be  permitted  to  smash  one  electric  guitar.  Max  tur  Famcorr:  A  vast  and  colorful  panorama  of  the  human  ele-  ment  in  all  Universal  and  Inter-  national  Expositions,  starting  with  the  [REDACTED]  Crystal  Palace  Exhibition  in  1851.  Imaginative  displays  chart  the  changing  patterns  of  fatigue,  and  show  how  Man  has  progressed  from  a  rel-  atively  fidgety  stander-in-line  to  today's  docile  automaton,  who  smilingly  waits  in  queue  for  seven  hours  to  visit  Expo  67's  Labyrinth.  Cut-away  sections  of  the  human  brain  demonstrate  rela-  tive  tolerance  to  visionary  architecture  and  heavy  industry.  New  multi-screen  cinema  projections  demonstrate  the  effects  upon  the  optic  nerve  of  multi-  screen  cinema  projections.  Lost  chil-  dren  will  be  put  up  for  auction  twice  a  day,  and  a  &quot;magic-eye&quot;  device  at  the  entrance  will  pinpoint  and  then  flash  on  a  large  overhead  screen  statistics  regarding  each  fairgoer's  indigestion.  Upon  departing,  each  visitor  is  dropped  through  a  concealed  trapdoor  into  a  queue  at  the  underground  parking  lot,  where  a  Fair  Hostess  will  fetch  his  automobile  for  a  fraction  of  its  original  cost,  while  a  lifelike  robot  of  Robert  Moses  delivers  a  lantern  slide  lecture  on  &quot;World's  Fair  Financing  for  Fun  and  Profit.&quot; 