 b"COMMON  sense,  cleanliness,   and  my  advisers  tell  me  I  should  get  this  old  studio  by  the  sea-  which  my  aunt  built,  and  where  she  and  other  artists  painted  and  made  etchings  on  a  press  set  up  under  the  skylight,  where  my  mother  painted  for  years  after  she  inherited  it-cleared  out  and  turned  into  an  ordinary  room  with  a  big  north  window  that  I  can  use  in  everyday  life.  All  this  accumulation  is  of  no  im-  mediate  use  to  anyone  alive  today.  &quot;All  this  junk,&quot;  my  husband  calls  it,  as  he  views  the  half-empty  pots  of  glue  and  linseed  oil  and  turpentine;  the  balsa-  wood  plane  models,  broken,  my  son  made,  while  my  mother  was  painting  him;  coils  of  wire  used  on  boats  for  some  purpose;  cigar  boxes  of  dried-up  paint  tubes;  the  conch  shells  in  the  still-  life  composition  that  was  the  last  thing  my  mother  painted  before  she  died;  the  rotted  leather  trunks  revealing  photographs  mounted  on  cards  in  the  Victorian  manner,  of  ladies  in  bustles,  gentlemen  with  beards,  once  some-  body's  friends  but  now  forever  un-  known;  a  yellow  lustre  vase;  a  pair  of  desiccated  rubber  gloves  for  handling  the  etching  plates  in  an  acid  bath;  a  pile  of  old  &quot;Transactions&quot;  of  the  Bronte  Society;  several  palettes,  still  set,  the  blobs  of  paint  dried  as  hard  as  multi-  colored  marbles;  plaster  casts,  dam-  aged,  of  Aphrodite,  of  a  della  Rob-  bia  bambino,  of  an  \xc3\xa9corch\xc3\xa9-a  model  ofthe  nude  stripped  to  show  the  mus-  cles;  a  pile  of  oil  pochades  my  father  painted  on  one  of  his  infrequent  visits  away  from  his  [REDACTED]  studio,  ofapple  blossoms  against  the  sea;  several  cheap  campstools  for  outdoor  painting,  and  several  sketching  easels,  but  no  two  of  them  in  the  same  place;  a  small,  heavy  box  labelled  &quot;Black  sand  found  in  Philip's  room,  1900;&quot;  three  nine-  teenth-century  travelling  desks-ma-  hogany  boxes  whose  inner  writing  sur-  faces,  covered  in  velvet,  are  broken  off  the  hinges;  a  cabinet  whose  shelves  are  entirely  filled  with  shoeboxes,  some  empty,  some  filled  with  wire,  with  nails,  with  the  wooden  keys  used  in  stretching  canvases,  with  still  more  photographs  of  forgotten  people,  or,  actually,  with  shoes,  marked  on  the  outside  of  the  box,  by  my  mother,  dis-  armingly  &quot;White  Suade  Sandles;&quot;  a  number  of  wicker  end  tables,  Victo-  rian,  that  my  mother  found  useful  in  setting  up  still-lifes;  part  of  an  ances-  tor's  classical  library,  behind  glass,  its  leather  flaking  off;  a  boxful  of  unre-  markable  minerals  collected  a  hundred  years  ago  by  a  little  boy  who  died  when  he  was  ten;  a  china  cabinet  crowded  with  china,  all  of  it  broken,  including  the  china  pitcher,  handle  missing,  that  my  father's  and  his  brothers'  supper  milk  was  poured  from  and  that  reads,  in  white  china  lettering:  What  though  my  cates  be  poor?  Take  them  in  good  part.  May  you  have  better  cheer  But  not  with  better  heart  and  the  low  brown  wooden  table  where  they  played  games  in  the  evenings,  on  one  side  of  which  some  disgruntled  little  boy  carved  &quot;Fat  Paunch;&quot;  old  letter  file  upon  old  letter  file  contain-  ing  nothing  but  clippings  from  news-  papers,  of  photographs  that  gave  one  of  those  now  dead  artists  an  idea  for  a  composition;  an  enormous  wooden  bowl  with  packets  ofseed  in  it  that  are  anywhere  from  ten  to  fifty  years  old  and  unquestionably  sterile  by  now  (if  you  pick  up  a  handful  at  random,  the  labels  read,  in  handwriting,  &quot;Oct.  1932  Black-Eyed  Susans,  original  seed  from  E.  Stewardson,&quot;  or  &quot;Dill  1923,&quot;  or  &quot;\xc2\xa91940.  Datura.  Angel's  Trumpet,&quot;  or,  27  in  commercial  print,  &quot;Okra-Dreer's  Little  Gem&quot;);  three  sets  of  mortar  and  pestle;  broken  lamps;  broken  chairs;  baskets  filled  with  bits  of  old  twine;  a  knitting  bag  that  was  once  an  oatmeal  carton  and  that  was  covered  in  wallpaper,  at  summer  camp,  by  my  son  for  a  September  birthday  present  for  his  great-aunt;  three  tall  racks  in-  tended  to  hold  drawings  and  etchings  that  belonged  to  the  aunt  who  built  the  studio.  &quot;Clear  it  all  out  quick,&quot;  my  husband  advises.  &quot;Then  you'll  have  it  off  your  mind.  You  did  that  with  your  father's  studio.&quot;  I  did.  I  cleared  out  the  [REDACTED]  studio  in  two  weeks  when  my  father  died,  because  it  seemed  important  to  get  out  of  it  before  the  lease  expired.  But  it's  hard  to  believe  that  is  the  right  thing  to  do  now.  All  studios,  because  they  have  no  formal  arrangement  the  way  a  dining  room  or  a  living  room  has,  tend  to  be-  come  repositories.  Thirty  years  ago  when  I  cleared  my  father's  studio  so  quickly,  I  was  searching  for  the  certifi-  cates  to  some  American  Telephone  &amp;  Telegraph  stock  my  father  had  owned  that  were  not  in  his  safe-deposit  box.  I  " b"found  one  certificate  under  the  bathtub,  one  in  a  1914  Saturday  Evening  Post,  two  in  the  fireplace  that  was  used  to  store  marl  sticks,  rolls  of  unused  canvas,  and  sketch-  ing  easels,  and  one  that  had  slipped  through  the  floor-  boards  of  the  model  stand,  but  some  never  did  turn  up,  and  we  had  to  apply  to  have  new  ones  issued,  Some  other  objects  crowding  my  father's  studio  were  probably  valu-  able,  some  totally  worthless,  but  I  don't  remember  what  they  were  now,  because  in  the  hurry  to  move  out  I  got  rid  of  everything.  There  is  no  problem  about  what  to  do  with  some  of  the  things  in  this  studio  by  the  sea.  The  Coromandel  screen  would  be  an  adornment  to  a  liv-  ing  room.  The  amateurish  painting  by  my  grandfather,  properly  a  writer  and  clergyman,  of  [REDACTED]  Common  in  the  thirties  of  the  last  century,  was  assessed  higher  than  anything  in  the  house  at  the  time  an  inventory  was  made  for  death  taxes.  The  table  all  the  boxes  of  paints  are  piled  on  is  real  Chippendale,  the  assessor  said,  besides  being  a  good,  useful  table.  The  family  letters  can  be  given  to  a  library  that  wants  them.  'The  dozens  upon  dozens  of  paintings  and  drawings  by  my  mother  can  join  the  paintings  by  my  father  and  my  aunt  up  in  the  attic,  which  will  then  be  so  full  that  if  anybody  more  in  this  family  be-  comes  an  artist  he  will  have  to  build  a  new  studio  in  order  to  have  a  place  to  store  his  work  in  when  Ae  dies.  Butwhat  to  do  about  ten  or  twelve  big  sheets  of  glass,  intended  to  cover  drawings  but  broken,  cracked,  or  chipped?  &quot;Cut  them  in  half  and  use  them  on  smaller  pictures,&quot;  my  son  ad-  vises.  But  think  of  the  work!  The  ex-  pense!  What  am  I  going  to  do  with  all  my  son's  school  papers  that  my  mother  saved-spelling  and  arithmetic  and  geography  papers?  &quot;Throw  them  out,  for  heaven's  sake,&quot;  he  says.  Or  with  the  finest  of  the  writing  desks,  Chinese,  inlaid  with  gold  and  mother-  of-pearl,  its  hinges  broken  and  lac-  quer  dried  and  cracked?  &quot;Get  it  mend-  ed,&quot;  someone  says.  But  where,  nowa-  days?  Or  with  seventeen  palm-leaf  fans-some  real  palm  leaves,  some  only  shaped  like  palms,  of  paper,  with  charming  Japanese  wash  drawings  on  them?  Or  a  doll's  tester  bed  with,  ly-  ing  on  top  of  it,  a  doll's  crinoline-bed  broken,  crinoline  eaten  by  moths?  Or  the  books  my  grandfather  read  as  a  child-  &quot;Harry  and  Lucy,&quot;  &quot;The  Sock  Stories,&quot;  by  Aunt  Fanny,  &quot;Aesop's  Fables,&quot;  all  without  covers,  the  bare  leaves  bound  with  rotting  thread  and  crumbling  glue?  I  respect  what  my  advisers,  objec-  tive  as  I  cannot  be,  recommend;  but  at  the  thought  of  taking  hold  of  all  this  complicated  assembly  and  throwing  it  out  I  quail.  I  am  overwhelmed.  Even  to  imagine  beginning  to  is  like  opening,  in  a  dream,  a  nlghtmare  closet  upon  confusion.  I  feel  I  can't.  What  am  I  to  do  with  yards  of  Irish  lace,  with  boxes  and  boxes  full  of  scraps  of  material,  almost  every  one  of  them  speaking  of  a  real  time,  a  real  place?  There  is  some  checked  brown  gingham  from  my  first  bought  dress  (my  mother  made  my  clothes  untilI  was  thirteen).  There  is  gray  linen  from  the  high-  waisted  frock  I  was  wearing  at  school  the  day  I  leaned  against  a  pine  tree  at  recess  and  got  pitch  in  my  hair.  There  is  a  bit  of  the  red-and-blue  plaid  smock  my  mother  wore  to  paint  in  forty  years  ago,  and  of  her  brown  silk  after-  noon  dress  that  had  a  Binche  lace  col-  lar,  and  of  one  of  my  grandmother's  her  mother's-black  brocade  dresses,  and  her  lavender  satin  mantle.  There  are  several  pieces  of  taffeta,  pale  cream  color  with  a  blue  stripe  running  through  it,  that  I  was  told  when  I  was  a  child  was  French  and  part  of  a  great-aunt's  hoop  skirt.  In  other  days  women  used  to  make  patchwork  out  of  scraps  like  these,  so  that  forever  after  or  until  the  qu11t  disintegrated  you  could  lean  over  and  with  a  forefinger  pick  out  your  life's  history  from  bits  of  a  familiar  dress,  upholstery  from  a  sheltering  chair.  Per-  haps  my  mother,  who  could  do  any-  thing  with  her  hands,  had  some  wild  dream  of  fitting  patchwork  into  her  countless  other  accomplishments.  But  I  shall  never  make  patchwork.  What  am  I  going  to  do  with  all  the  pieces?     Possibly  I  am  letting  myself  be  too  much  affected  by  what  are  only  materi-  al  possessmns  But  I  don't  feel  about  the  possessions  that  crowd  this  monstrous  closet  of  mine  as  though  they  were  material,  exactly.  I'd  always  thought  of  material  possessions  as  having  a  mone-  tary  value,  for  one  thing.  These  objects  seem  more  ineffable  than  material,  like  voices.  At  their  realest,  they  are  objects  of  virtue,  keys  to  release  the  life  that  trembles  behind  them  in  the  void  and  that  I  otherwise  would  never  have  sus-  pected  was  there.  It  is  as  if  you  whirled  around  very  quickly  and  caught  the  furniture  in  a  room  up  to  something;  or  as  if,  bya  trick,  you  had  at  last  been  able  to  catch  the  uncatchable-the  blind  spot  in  your  vision  where  anything  can  happen.  How  can  I  throw  away  an  anecdote  about  Winston  Churchill  and  Sir  Al-  exander  Fleming,  written  out  in  quad-  ruplicate,  which  I  remember,  suddenly,  an  uncle's  telling  me,  years  ago?  What  I  had  no  idea  of  was  that  he  cared  so  about  it.  Now  I  see  him  sitting  at  his  desk  in  Westchester  County,  the  Be-  nares  brass  lamp  standing  beside  him,  copying  it  out  over  and  over  for  the  friends  he  was  going  to  give  it  to,  send  it  to.  Can  he  have  made  even  more  than  four  copies  of  this  not  very  fasci-  nating  story?  Am  I  to  throw  away  a  tiny  emerald-green  glass  bottle,  etched  in  gold,  the  broken  stopper  wedged  in,  that  fits  into  a  tiny  chamois-leather  case?  The  smelling  salts  are  still  visible,  locked  inside.  IfI  worked  on  its  stopper  long  enough  I  might  be  able  to  catch  a  whiff,  but  if  I  throw  it  out  in  the  trash  I  know  that  I  will  never  think  of  it  again-or  of  the  other  case,  black  leather,  that  lies  beside  it.  This  case  is  like  one  of  those  miraculous  snowstorm  paperweights,  in  that  it  seems  to  con-  tain  a  world.  Inside  it,  a  square  glass,  " b"   bevel-edged,  for  drinking  out  of,  con-  tains  a  metal  spoon,  a  metal  fork,  and  a  penknife,  all  folded  back  neatly  upon  themselves  to  fit  the  glass  that  fits  the  case.  Who  did  thet  belong  to?  Was  it  meant  for  carrying  aboard  a  boat?  Was  it  for  camping?  So  many  of  these  objects  do  seem  worlds  in  themselves,  worlds  I  can  at  least  peer  into  if  I  hold  them  in  my  hand,  There  is  a  collection  of  Victorian  metal  objects  (brass?  copper?  they  are  black  with  time).  One  is  an  inkwell.  You  can  tell  it  is  an  inkwell  because  there  is  an  ink-stained  china  cup  inside.  The  inkwell  is  in  the  shape  of  what  I  think  must  be  a  hut  for  savages.  The  round  house  itself  is  woven  of  strips  (osiers?  as  in  &quot;Swiss  Family  Robin-  son&quot;?  ),  and  its  roof  ofreeds  that  point  upward  and  are  gathered  into  a  bunch  at  the  top.  The  hut  has  a  sort  of  exten-  sion,  a  round  sub-hut,  whose  roof  you  lift  to  dip  your  pen  into  the  ink.  But  is  it  a  hut?  Here,  on  the  &quot;ground&quot;  out-  side  it,  is  a  huge  metal  fly.  He  is  formed  perfectly;  is  he  also  to  scale?  If  he's  to  scale,  then  it  can't  represent  a  hut  for  savages,  or  at  least  it  must  be  a  hut  for  the  most  elfin  of  savages.  Or  what  is  it?  'There  is  no  use  trying  to  interest  a  collector  in  it,  to  findout.  The  roof  is  broken,  the  china  cup  inside  is  broken,  and  collectors  only  want  perfect  speci-  mens.  Everything  in  this  whole  studio  is  broken.  But,  as  I  have  always  been  told,  nobody  is  perfect.  &quot;If  you  don't  look  out,  you'll  find  yourself  living  in  the  past,&quot;  a  disap-  proving  cousin  says.  &quot;I  loved  them  all,  too,  but  it's  so  sed,  to  think  about  them  now  they're  dead,  Come  on  to  the  beach.&quot;  After  she  is  gone  I  go  on  looking  through  a  big  pile  of  papers  spilled  on  the  floor  in  one  corner,  behind  the  Coromandel  screen.  Lots  of  them  are  just  more  pictures  from  newspapers  that  my  mother  clipped  out,  that  gave  her  an  idea.  But  what  idea  was  she  trying  to  capture?  A  young  girl  stand-  ing  before  a  window,  her  hair  a  blaze  from  the  sunshine  behind  her-that's  easy.  So  is  a  photograph  from  Vanity  Fair  of  the  actress  Grace  George,  posed  in  profile,  a  plume  falling  from  her  hat  and  around  the  curve  of  her  neck.  A  brown  rotogravure-section  picture  of  the  Egyptian  architect  Ti  is  less  so.  It  is  just  very  stiff,  very  archaic,  very  Egyptian.  What  car  my  mother  have  wanted  to  use  thatidea  for,  in  a  picture?  All  at  once  I  come  on  a  whole  batch,  a  dozen  or  more,  of  photographs  taken  of  this  house  when  it  was  being  built  in  1911.  I  never  knew  before  that  they  existed.  Pictures  of  the  granite  for  the  house  being  quarried  out  of  its  own  cellar,  ofthe  scaffolding,  of  the  mas-  ter  mason  laying  the  courses  of  stone,  of  the  derrick,  of  the  landscape  as  it  then  was,  beyond  the  open  construc-  tion.  My  aunt  engaged  the  mason,an  old  Swede,  to  build  the  house  to  suit  his  own  ideas,  because,  she  said,  she  wanted  it  to  look  like  a  North  European  farm-  house.  I'd  entirely  forgotten  his  name,  but  now,  as  I  squint  at  the  snapshots  of  him,  in  his  felt  hat  and  shapeless  sweater  against  that  scenery  which  looks  so  curiously  bare,  I  remember  it  was  Jungquist,  Alec  Jungquist,  and  that  the  bushes  and  young  trees  used  to  be  kept  down  by  the  pasturing  of  cows  that  belonged  to  Mr.  Seppala,  a  Finn.  The  cows  roamed  the  point,  the  moors,  all  summer.  At  night  you  could  hear  their  cowbells  tinkling  in  the  fog.  Jungquist  built  most  of  the  granite  houses  around  here.  Before  his  day  the  masons  weren't  up  to  it,  and  afterward   granite  houses  cost  too  much,.  He  had  the  independence  of  the  Scandinavian,  and  when  his  wife  died  and  he  lived  all  alone  he  did  everything  for  himself,  including,  when  he  realized  he  had  a  cancer  in  his  throat,  operating  on  it  with  a  straight  razor.  He  died,  of  course,  of  blood  poisoning.  Gradually,  asI  turn  over  others  in  the  mass  of  papers,  I  begin  to  notice  the  noise  the  flies  of  noonday  make,  as  they  buzz  and  bat  against  the  big,  high  studio  window,  too  high  to  be  washed,  where  spiders  have  their  webs;  one  can  lie  for  hours  on  theold  lumpy  chaise  longue,  that  is  covered  in  faded  blue  denim,  and  watch  the  flies  get-  ting  caught,  struggling  sometimes  for  a  whole  day,  expiring,  in  the  extensive  and  high-powered  operations  the  spi-  ders  conduct  up  there.  I  get  up  from  the  floor  where  I  havebeen  sitting,  stretch,  and  go  to  another  window,  the  low  one  that  overlooks  the  sea  through  the  locusts'  lacy  foliage.  There  lies  the  cove-glassy  still,  green,  warm,  shining,  the  way  I  love  it.  The  granite  point  beyond  is  rosy  in  the  sun.  At  this  hour,  all  my  friends  are  down  there  swimming.  Lowe  calls  us  to  the  things  of  this  world,  I  repeat  to  myself  as  I  go  to  change  into  my  suit.  True,  but  then  what  do  you  call  what  I  feel  for  all  this  junk,  these  worlds?     "