 b"THE  interview  with  Grip  Sands,  three-time  winner  of  the  covet  ed  Alma  M.  Halloran  Fictive  Award  (for  his  novels  &quot;Lud,&quot;  &quot;Fust,&quot;  and  &quot;Drime&quot;  )  was  held  at  five-thirty  one  morning  in  his  loft  workroom-  bedroom-living  room  on  Manhat-  tan's  lower  East  Side,  within  sight  of  the  ever-poetic  span  of  the  Brooklyn  [REDACTED].  Sands  works  at  night  and  sleeps  by  day,  and  the  interview  was  conducted  between  the  hours  of  his  most  intense  concentration  and  his  hours  of  rest.  He  appeared  exhausted  yet  exhilarated.  He  is  short,  squat,  and  somewhat  dishevelled,  with  thick  eyebrows  and  piercing  green  eyes.  He  was  dressed  in  black  leather  pants,  a  black  leather  jacket,  and  highly  pol-  ished  black  boots.  Sands  and  his  boots  are  inseparable,  as  inseparable  as  Sands  and  the  strange,  private  lexicon  of  ob-  MARR  AGE  COUNSELLOR     \xe2\x80\x9cGO  scenities  he  employs  in  ordinary  conver-  sation.  Sands  wears  his  boots  every-  where-to  literary  conferences,  to  prize  conclaves,  and  to  bed.  Bed  con-  sists  of  a  mattress  on  the  floor  of  the  loft,  with  no  pillow.  The  loft  is  sparely  furnished:  an  unpainted  worktable  piled  high  with  supplies  of  green  copy  paper,  on  which  Sands  writes  in  red  ink,  and,  in  one  corner,  a  refrigerator.  The  floor  of  the  loft  was  covered  with  crumpled  mounds  of  discarded  pieces  of  copy  paper.  They  lent  the  other-  wise  barren  room  the  appearance  of  being  a  mossy  glen  in  a  thick  forest.  Sands  was  seated  on  the  mattress,  read-  ing  galleys  of  his  forthcoming  fictive  cffort,  &quot;Zwer.&quot;  Several  volumes  of  Proust  were  visible  on  top  of  the  refrig-  erator,  lying  beside  a  half-eaten  pome-  granate.  IntTErviEwER:  You  havebeen  accused  of  a  certain  deliberate  obscurity,  not  only  in  connection  with  the  time  continuum  but  with  relation  to  the  per-  sonnel  of  your  novels.  Your  non-beings  appear  to  have  more  life-force  than  your  beings,  and  even  at  times  to  be  in-  terchangeable  with  them.  What  are  you  saying  to  us?  Sanps:  I  should  like  very  much  to  get  my  hands  on  the  blarfs  who  accuse  me  of  obscurity,  much  less  deliberate  obscurity.  Their  watchword  would  ap-  pear  to  be  crand.  I  am  saying  what  I  am  saying,  and  each  driggle  must  figure  the  matter  out  for  himself,  depend-  ing  on  the  time,  the  place,  the  baro-  metric  pressure,  and  the  nearest  horo-  scope.  To  read  &quot;Fust,&quot;  for  instance,  without  a  horoscope  would  be  sheer  groozle.  And  yet  many  try,  and  sink.I  lay  great  store  by  horoscopes,  mostly  for  their  paramorphic  value.  They  cut  through  the  paninvisibility  of  non-be-  ing.  We  are  left  with  the  dark  shadow  of  cartilage.  The  nub  of  the  matter.  InTERvIEwWER:  We  know  that  each  writer  se-  cretly  whispers  to  himself  in  his  innermost  places,  awake  or  asleep,  that  this  time  he  has  touched  the  truth-zeroed  in,  you  might  say.  Sans:  To  me,  eternity  is  eggshells.  The  whites  are  pure  mag,  and  the  yolks  well,I  won't  even  consider  the  yolks.  They  are  beneath  contempt.  But  the  shells  present  an  entirely  differ-  ent  problem.  We  have  the  problem  of  poise-absolute-  ly  essential-and,  with  it,  the  delicate  elaboration  of  personality,  or,  in  the  case  of  &quot;Lud,&quot;  non-personality.  One  exudes.  Otherwise,  there  is  nothing-not  even  the  void.  InTErviEwErRr:  Do  the  city  streets  inspire  you?&quot;  I  mean,  do  you  prow]?  Sans:  Inscrutably.  In-  scrutably,  rather  than  hap-  hazardly  or  continuously.  The  inspiration,  once  again,  is  eggshells.  They  rise  be-  neath  the  feet  and  touch  off  myriad  images.  The  prowl-  ing  must  be  done  under  cover  of  darkness,  and  the  feet  themselves  provide  the  motivation.  One  either  senses  this  sort  of  thing  or  one  doesn't.  The  egg-  shells  are  everywhere,  but  one  must  feel  them,  Lower     " b"Broadway  bleeds  with  eggshells.  There  the  poise  requires  deftness,  murim,  and  a  calm  spirit.  If  one  is  unhurried,  col-  lected,  one  is  safe,  one's  inspiration  is  safe.  Jar  the  balance  and  there  is  a  crack  in  eternity.  IntErvirEwEr:  That  would  be  ir-  reparable?  Sanps:  Irreparable.  There  are  no  second  chances.  The  wheel  turns  and  stops-red  or  black,  good  or  ill.  And,  of  course,  there  is  the  question  of  money.  'The  foundations  and  the  grants  help.I  loathe  them,  and  I  loathe  the  gurds  who  sit  in  boardroom  splen-  dor  and  award  them,  but  I  never  turn  one  down.  The  first  grant  is  always  the  hardest.  Then  they  pour  in;  some  blick  recommends  me  one  year,  I  recom-  mend  the  blick  the  next.  It  is  a  ques-  tion  of  poise,  almost  vegetable.  They  say  travel  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  537061696e.  I  say  no.  I  stay  here.  My  terms.  Fleep!  IntErviEwEr:  Do  you  revise  much?  Sanps:  As  an  exercise  in  the  art  of  interregnum.  The  floor  of  the  studio  attests  to  the  continuously  heightened  and  renewed  perceptions  and  non-per-  ceptibles.  IntTErviEwEr:  Do  much  with  other  writers?  Sanps:  Sparsely.  IntErviEwER:  But  you  domin-  gle  occasionally-conferences,  creative-  writing  gatherings,  and  so  on.  Do  you  derive  much  inspiration,  if  any,  from  these  encounters?  Sanps:  The  average  writer  is  a  brape.  I  observe  them  to  renew  my  contempt.  And  to  replenish  the  well-  spring.  The  fallow  times,  you  know,  are  not  kinsel.  Bears  do  it.  Inspiration  often  derives  from  one's  low  opinion  of  those  around  one,  soI  occasionally  drive  to  the  gas  station  and  ask  the  man  to  fill  up  thetank.  Then  back  here  to  aloneness  and  the  eternal,  internal  me.  You  are  the  first  person  I  have  talked  to  since  beginning  &quot;Zwer,&quot;  and  you  may  be  the  last.  IntErviEwER:  &quot;Zwer&quot;  has  already  evinced  almost  universal  interest.  Can  you  tell  me  something  about  it-its  themes  and  goals?  Sanps:  In  &quot;Zwer,&quot;  the  root  is  the  branch.  It  will  win  all  the  prizes,  but  for  all  the  wrong  reasons.  In  &quot;Zwer,&quot;  the  personae  ascend  in  descension.  The  interstices  become  the  corpus.  Form  follows  reason  to  the  city  limits,  and  then  explodes  with  malevolent  magna-  nimity.  The  bulldozers  appear  to  tri-  umph,  but  the  squeak  of  the  mouse  is  heard  over  the  land.  InTERVIEWER:  Where  would  you  saythe  novel  in  general  is  heading?  I  you  mingle mean,  this  would  come  down,  I  sup-  pose,  to  shape  and  form  and  content.  You  must  have  given  this  a  good  deal  of  thought.  Sans:  The  problem  centers  acutely  on  the  extricular.  Gravy  boats,  bronzed  booties,  canoes-that  sort  of  thing.  Try  to  avoid  these  tactiles  and  the  novel  will  foist.  Slowly  at  first,  but  with  increasing  blushes.  That  is  one  thing  I  am  certain  of,  up  to  a  point.  Characters  must  become  egressors.  The  costume  is  without  meaning,  the  setting  a  mere  ball  of  fire,  and  the  dialogue  quirp.  People  often  halrow  and  urge  you  to  try  that  one  on  your  cigar  box.  I  tell  them  to  emerge,  shed,  blacken  with  soot.  Cold  cream  is  dodo.Defi-  nitely.  &quot;Zwer's&quot;  most  powerful  scenes  are  illuminated  with  the  passion  of  an  underwater  gazebo.  'The  inundated  summerhouse!  It  is  a  summing  up,  and  nothing  will  ever  be  the  same.  Follow  the  green  arrow  and  take  the  wrong  turn.  Most  of  them  are  rotten.  IntTErviEwER:  In  other  words,  you  are  optimistic.  Sans:  Insofar  as  the  circle  bisects  the  square  and  leaves  it  dangling.  And  with  respect  to  the  pastoral  mutations.  The  rest  is  queel.  But  there  are  some  bright  spots-Lipton  in  [REDACTED]  City,  struggling  with  his  penetrobes,  and  poor  Kenneeley  being  bitten  alive  in  [REDACTED].  IntTErviEwEr:  4b656e7961,  I  believe.  Sans:  You  are  right.  4b656e7961.  IntErviEwEr:  Can  you  tell  me  something  of  your  origins!  Sans:  [REDACTED]  was  pure  treem.  The  noxious  workmen  and  their  hard-  boiled  eggs.  Puget  Sound  was  drave,  and  New  Orleans  grob.  Heady  stuff.  My  parents  were  one-burner  electric  stove,  here  today  and  gone.  St.  Louis,  [REDACTED],  the  transcontinental  bit,  and  then  the  breakaway.  Collapse  and  re-  covery  and  the  dusty  road  to  the  center,  The  self-initiated  self.  It  came  one  night  and  knocked,  and  I  said,  &quot;En-  ter.&quot;  And  here  I  am.  InTErRviEwER:  A  complete  man?  Sanps:  Ragout. "