 b"THE  big  surprise  in  the  movie  business  this  year  has  been  the  formidable  forward  stride  taken  by  the  infant  film  industry  of  the  emerging  Republic  of  Kwanda.  Lit-  tle  Kwanda  came  into  sharp  focus  again  this  week  as  it  walked  off  with  its  third  major  festival  award,  the  Silver  Sprocket  of  the  [REDACTED]  Film  F\xc3\xa9te,  as  the  &quot;Best  Film  in  Hamito-  Dravidian  and  Carpatho-Urdic  Lan-  guage  Groups,&quot;  for  its  painfully  honest  portrayal  of  two  youngsters  who  live  only  for  today,  &quot;Mbana  and  Tikan.&quot;  Cornered  after  the  award  presentation  by  trade  reporters,  Kwanda's  film  czar,  T.  E.  Gwalili,  addressed  himself  in-  formally,  and  for  trade  ears  only,  to  the  question  of  how  a  country  whose  citizens  as  recently  as  three  years  ago  called  a  movie  camera  &quot;the  box  that  whirs  like  a  cicada&quot;  has  been  able  to  achieve  maturity  in  filmmaking  so  quickly.  After  reassuring  an  aide  who  re-  mindedhim  that  he  had  to  leave  with-  infifteen  minutes  if  he  was  to  make  his  plane  connection  for  the  Katmandu  Film  Festival,  scheduled  to  begin  thir-  ty-six  hours  later,  Gwalili  said,  &quot;Why  shouldn't  we  have  success  in  films?  We  are  bigger  in  population  than  Swe-  den  or  Greenwich  Village,  and  greater  in  area  than  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED],  to  name  only  a  few  localities  that  have  achieved  fame  in  the  medium.  If  [REDACTED]  can  come  up,  in  Melina  Mercouri,  with  Kora&quot;  a  Frankly  Outspoken  International  Star  of  the  stature  of  Jeanne  Moreau,  Jane  Fonda,  and  other  Frankly  Out-  spokens  produced  by  the  major  film  powers,  why,  we  asked  ourselves,  can't  we?  And  we  did.&quot;  Without  his  having  to  mention  her  name,  all  present  knew  Gwalili  could  only  be  speaking  of  Kwanda's  Joan  Obotu,  who  has  made  hot  copy  all  year  in  frankly  outspoken  interviews  with  Life,  the  A.P.,  Esquire,  the  &quot;To-  day  Show,&quot;  and  just  about  everyone  else  to  whom  she  has  opened  her  mouth.  Miss  Obotu's  &quot;Fame  is  like  a  water  hole-the  jungle  creatures  gath-  er  at  it  only  so  long  as  it  has  what  they  need,&quot;  her  &quot;Men  glide  through  my  life  like  lions  through  the  savanna-  silent,  strong,  firm  in  purpose,&quot;  and  her  widely  quoted  &quot;I  will  only  marry  when  the  man  who  shares  my  fire  builds  a  gwam  [hut]  that  keeps  out  the  rain&quot;  have  afforded  the  liveliest  possible  pro-  motion  to  her  two  latest  films,  &quot;Dear  Bwilu&quot;  and  &quot;Male,  Female,  Male.&quot;  &quot;Our  root  problem  in  creating  a  Frankly  Outspoken  Star,&quot;  Gwalili  said,  &quot;was  the  same  one  that  Kwanda  faces  every  day  in  films-finding  that  pre-  cious  element  of  universality.  Since  we  have  only  three  movie  houses  in  Kwan-  da,  our  screenwriters,  as  well  as  our  publicists,  must  search  diligently  for  themes  that  will  strike  responsive     chords  in  worldwide  audiences.  For  us,  that  isn't  easy.  Take  the  supposedly  universal  adolescent  preoccupa-  tion  with  boy-girl  stuff.  A  recent  survey  shows  that  as  a  compelling  interest  among  Kwandan  boys  over  fifteen  and  under  twenty-two,  sex  drops  to  twelfth  place-between  leop-  ard  hunting  and  football.  Among  girls,  it  ranks  fourth,  but  for  girls  there  are  only  four  places.  Or  look  at  two  other  so-called  'universal  movie  plots-the  young  girl  dazzled  by  the  sophistication  of  an  older  man  and  then  seduced  by  him,  and  the  young  boy  dazzled  by  the  sophistication  of  an  older  woman  and  then  seduced  by  Aer.  As  for  the  first  plot,  well,  practically  all  marriages  in  Kwanda  are  May-December  and  based  on  goat-dowry  considerations,  and  they  work  very  well.  As  for  the  second,  I  would  remind  you  that  three  female  anthropologists  with  a  Smithsonian  expedition  recently  felt  compelled  to  walk  out  in  the  middle  of  one  of  our  somewhat  sophisticated  puberty  rites.  But  despite  our  alienation  from  the  themes  I  have  cited,  I  believe  those  of  you  who  have  seen  Joan's  film  'A  Man,  a  Boy,  a  Girl,  a  Woman'  will  agree  that  we've  risen  to  the  chal-  lenge.&quot;  Mr.  Gwalili  was  asked  whether  Kwanda's  success  in  films  wasn't  bas-  ically  attributable  to  the  wealth  of  talent  among  the  young  directors  it  has  uncovered.  &quot;It's  certainly  true,&quot;  he  replied,  &quot;that  our  directors  have  all  come  to  the  medium  with  a  re-  freshing  lack  of  preconception.  They  have  not  been  shackled  by  such  tired  conventions  of  traditional  movie-mak-  ing  as  cinema  v\xc3\xa9rit\xc3\xa9.  Their  output  has  had  an  attractive  personal  quality  that,  unfortunately,  lays  it  open  to  occasional  misinterpretation.  Thus,  the  distinctive  films  of  Brian  Kombibi,  which  a  few  obtuse  critics  have  called  'underex-  posed,&quot;  are  Brian's  way  of  showing  that  his  eyes  are  just  beginning  to  open  to  the  medium.  And  the  filmic  tech-  nique  of  T.  I.  Bamba,  which  often  features  a  seemingly  irrelevant  thumb  or  forefinger  close  to  the  lens,  is  Bamba  saying,  'See,  I  reach  out  in  this  new  world  of  film.  I  want  to  touch  it  alll&quot;  The  trade  reporters  were  eager  to  hear  what  Gwalili  had  to  say  about  Jo-  seph  Basia,  the  best  known  of  Kwan-  da's  tradition-shattering  young  direc-  tors,  whose  so-called  &quot;eye-of-newt&quot;  films  have  caused  many  French,  Ger-  man,  and  Danish  critics  to  downgrade  every  non-Basia  film  they've  seen  in  the  past  three  years.  The  technique,  named  for  its  widely  heralded  use  in  Basia's  &quot;Ophelia  of  the  Rain  Forest,&quot;  calls  for  a  film  to  be  shot  from  the  point  of  view  " b"of  a  succession  of  wild  creatures-so  that  the  story  is  seen,  in  effect,  through  the  neutral  eyes  of  nature.  The  lyrical,  loping,  eland's-  eye  view  of  Madge  Golo's  first  encounter  with  a  boy  in  &quot;A  Man,  a  Woman,  a  Wom-  an,  and  Another  Man&quot;  is  a  typical  example,  as  is  the  beetle's-eye  view-the  scene  frag-  mented  by  a  hundred  prisms-of  Mbana  and  Tikan  the  first  time  they  find  themselves  alone  in  the  gwam  in  the  Silver  Sprocket-  award  winner.  &quot;You  may  not  re-  member  that  Basia  began  experimenting  with  'eye  of  newt  as  early  as  'Obugbu'  [&quot;'The  Chief  Pays  a  Call&quot;],  his  low-budg-  et  feature  on  restless  provincial  youth  at  odds  with  authority,&quot;  Gwalili  recalled.  &quot;In  those  days,  Kwanda  had  neither  the  studio  facilities  nor  the  light-  ing  know-how  forbig  scenes.  At  the  begin-  ning  of  a  sequence  you  were  lucky  to  get,  as  an  establishing  shot,  an  entire  person.  After  that,  we  moved  in  for  a  face  and  a  shoulder,  or  maybe  a  mouth  and  a  bit  of  chin,  a  nervously  tapping  foot,  or,  at  our  most  ambitious,  a  trucking  shot  of  a  flea  crossing  a  kitch-  en  table.  There  was  always  variety,  you  understand,  nice  change  of  pace,  but  every  so  often  audiences  would  hunger  for  a  good,  solid  long  shot.  And  it  was  Basia  who  gave  it  to  them-shooting  straight  down.&quot;  There  was  a  stir  of  recognition  from  his  listen-  ers,  for  most  of  them  recalled  the  classic  sequence  in  &quot;Tam  Bak  Tutu&quot;  (&quot;Luncheon  Is  Served&quot;)  in  which  Melembu's  brief  honeymoon  is  ob-  served  through  the  eyes  of  a  baboon  in  a  treetop.  Mr.  Gwalili  had  much  praise  for  Basia's  growth  (his  new  film  is  about  a  day  sensed  by  a  sunflower  at  the  edge  of  a  trysting  place),  but  he  surprised  his  professional  audience  by  stating,  in  an-  swer  to  a  direct  question,  that  he  con-  siders  T.  E.  Dakwal,  and  not  Basia,  to  be  Kwanda's  most  important  director.  &quot;Dakwal's  fame,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;rests  on  a  single  achievement,  but  it's  the  one  that put  us  in  the  big  leagues.&quot;  He  smiled  as  he  looked  into  the  blank  faces  of  his  auditors.  &quot;Don't  tell  me  you've  forgot-  ten  Dakwal's  first  feature,  Feminine,  Masculine,  Neuter,  Other'?  Until  that  time,  in  our  struggle  for  a  place  on  the  international  film  map,  we  had  totally  failed  in  our  efforts  to  work  into  a  Kwandan  picture  the  obligatory  bed  scene  that  separates  the  film  of  substance  from  the  pap.  The  bed,  as  you  may  know,  is  not  indigenous  to  Kwanda.  Dakwal's  solution  was  of  an  order  of  simplicity  that  defines  the  intuitive  gen-  ius.  He  simply  had  a  bed  manufactured  by  the  prop  department  and  moved  onto  his  set,  and  he  made  sure  his  principals  were  in  it  in  the  first  reel.  When  studio  executives  and  cultural  officers  at  the  Foreign  Office  cried  out  against  this  gross  misrepresentation  of  Kwandan  custom  and  culture,  Dakwal  answered,  'Who'll  know?&quot;  Thenow  famous  re-  ply  was  later  carved  over  the  entrance  to  the  three-million-dollar  Writers  Building  we  were  able  to  put  up  at  Kwanda  Federated  Studios  as  a  con-  sequence  of  our  major  breakthrough.&quot;  But  now  Gwalili's  aide  was  insist,  ent;  unless  they  departed  at  once,they would  miss  their  plane.  And  so  the  dy-  namic  film  czar  said  his  goodbyes  to  the  reporters  and  turned  with  firm  step  to-  ward  Katmandu,  where  his  nation's  entry,  &quot;Him,  Her,  Whom,&quot;  an  Italo-  Dutch-Kwandan  co-production,  was  an  odds-on  favorite  to  win  the  Mount  Everest  Award,  or  &quot;Evvy,&quot;  as  the  &quot;Best  Film  Made  by  Three  or  More  Nations,&quot;  for  its  portrayal  of  an  aging  boar  hunter's  inability  to  choose  among  his  mistress,  his  wives,  and  his  mother. "