 b"EVERY  so  often,  here  in  Cos  Cob,  E  I  receivea  letter  from  a  young  actor  who  resides  along  the  Sun-  set-Fairfax  axis  of  [REDACTED],  and  who  seems  poised  on  a  knife-edge  be-  tween  the  Electronic  Age  and  the  old  specialized  left-to-right  culture  most  of  us  were  broughtup  in.  Here  is  the  latest:  DEar  Frank:  Hey,  thanks  for  the  check,  buddy.  I've  had  this  little  problem  with  blocked  currency,  but  I'll  pay  you  back.  Any-  way,  I  got  a  job.  I'm  doing  a  small  gig  in  a  little  piece  of  cineme  v\xc3\xa9rit\xc3\xa9  on  Back  Lot  No.  3  at  [REDACTED]  in  Culver.  When  they  finally  decide  what  to  call  it  I'll  clue  you  in  so  you  can  catch  it  in  your  local  hardtop  or  ozoner,  as  it  opens  to  rave  reviews  and  does  a  socko  18  Gs  in  its  initial  stanza.  I  prom-  ise-and  I'm  giving  you  the  straights  now-that  once  I  collect  the  bread  from  this  score  I'll  never  sell  out  again.  From  here  on  in  it's  Antonioni,  Go-  dard,  Warhol,  or  nothing.  What  else?  Well,  I've  been  in  the  gloom  bag  again,  like  when  I  was  sleeping  in  that  coffin.  I  mean,  every-  thing  happens  to  we.  Lately  I'd  been  digging  this  raga  music  and  Tibetan  temple  horns  over  listener-sponsored  KPFK,  90.7  on  your  FM  dial.  Then  all  of  a  sudden  they  were  offfor  two  or  three  nights,  and  I  thought,  Wow,  Z  did  it.  I  mean  not  paying  the  fifteen  dollars  they  ask  you  to  lay  on  them  for  just  listening.  Then  suddenly  they're  back  on  again  at  full  wattage  and  in  full  glory  with  Afghanistani  folk  songs,  Moli\xc3\xa9re  in  French,  birthday  celebrations  for  Schubert,  attacks  on  the  War  and  [REDACTED],  music  of  the  Renaissance,  and  Radio  Free  Oz.  (The  last  one  is  a  late-night  phoner  where  this  cat  Peter  counsels  all  these  hungup  callers  with  wisdom  of  43616e616461and  the  Hopi  Life  Plan  and  Prophecy  of  Purification  and  calls  every-  body  &quot;baby.&quot;)  Finding  that  I  hadn't  blacked  out  Radio  Free  Oz  singlehanded  (may-  be  Toto  chewed  a  cable)  made  me  feel  better  about  the  other  late  news  from  the  Golden  State.  I  mean,  how  can  it  be  my  fault  when  the  state-highway  cats  here  announced  thev're  going  to  make  road  checks  of  automobiles  and  that  they're  especially  going  to  look  for  old  cars  and  those  driven  by  people  who  dress  sloppy?  Are  you  ready  for  that?  Also,  a  lot  of  the  kids  around  here  have  been  moving  up  to  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]  has  no  draft.  I  asked  this  guitar  player  who's  going  up  there  what  happens  if  Saskatchewan  is  invaded  from  the  north.  He  says,  &quot;The  Canadians  will  call  on  you  guys.  You're  here  for  everybody.&quot;  But  let  me  tell  you  about  the  real  hangup.  Bibi  starts  coming  on  strong  with  this  guy  Trevor  Winston.  Thought  that  would  blow  your  mind.  You  couldn't  have  missed  seeing  at  least  three  of  his  pictures.  He's  what  you  call  a  &quot;bankable&quot;  star.  There  are  only  eight  orten  of  them,  of  which  Trevor  is  about  No.  2.  Anyway,  Bibi,  who's  been  getting  some  tremendous  shots  lately  in  vidseries,  starts  cruising  around  town  with  this  up-tight  swinger,  making  the  scene  at  plush  niteries  like  the  Daisy,  Mateo's,  and  La  Dolce  Vita.  He's  got  this  Eldorado  Fleetwood  with  a  phone,  a  stereo  rig,  and  a  retractable  TV  set  in  the  back.  So  I  said  to  her,  What's  happening,  and  she  says  it  pays  to  know  people  like  that  and  it'll  do  us  both  good.  ButI'm  thinking  what  good  will  it  do  me?  I'm  getting  one  of  these  straight  middle-class  hangups,  which  is  just  not  like  me.  But  I'll  tell  you,  buddy,  one  visit  to  the  Haight-Ashbury  31  Sexual  Freedom  League  in  S.F.  doesn't  emancipate  you  jealousy-wise  quite  as  absolutely  and  mind-bendingly  as  you  might  think,  Not  that  I  ever  considered  cutting  the  knot.  I  know  that's  middle-class,  too.  But  we  did  slip  into  a  kind  of  road-show  version  of  our  former  great  twosome,  giving  me  more  free  time.  A  few  evenings  later,  about  six  like,  I'm  tooling  down  the  [REDACTED]  on  my  Honda  Super  90,  with  those  88  cubes  putting  out  8  bhp  at  9500  rpm.  (In  case  you're  wondering  where  I  got  the  bread  for  this  little  red  machine,  I  bought  it  on  time,  after  my  Falcon  was  totalled.)  Anyway,  I  spot  this  teeny-bopper,  in  dungarees  with  holes  in  the  knees  and  a  peajacket,  hitch-  hiking  near  Pandora's  Box.  Actually,  there  were  a  half  dozen  of  them,  a  kind  of  Proust's  Little  Band  at  Balbec.  I  just  picked  herout  of  the  lot.  They  get  out  there  every  afternoon  to  dem-  onstrate  their  indifference  to  capital-  ism,  private  ownership,  rapid  transit,  Mr.  Brown  Shoes,  and  the  whole  meg-  alopolitan  bag.  She's  got  this  long  free-pressed  blond  hair  right  out  of  Rumpelstiltskin  and  that  absolutely  mind-blowing  candid  stare.  Man,  aren't  they  afraid  of  anything?  Don't  they  know  we  could  submit  them  to  a  fate  worse  than  death-an  evening  at  the  Cocoanut  Grove,  let's  say?  Anyway,  she  settles  on  the  back  of  the  seat  and  we  take  off  vroocom!,  with     " b"my  twins  making  that  fine  noise,  and  head  forthe  heart  of  the  film  capital  of  the  world.  And  I'm  acting  out  this  racing  fantasy.  I'm  all  the  great  cyclists  rolled  into  one  capturing  top  spot  for  under-100  cc  bikes  of  Oriental  lineage  at  the  Isle  of  Man  and  other  inter-  national  Grand  Prix  bashes,  while  this  chick  is  hanging  on  like  crazy.  And  what  do  I  tell  Jim  McKay  over  the  Wide  World  of  Sports  mike  when  he  asks  me  why  I  take  such  chances?  Be-  cause  I'm  afraid  of  death,  I  tell  him.  Too  much!  So  that's  the  way  it  went  as  we  tore  right  on  by  &quot;Grand  Prix&quot;  at  the  Cinerama  Bucky  Fuller  geodesic-  icosahedron  [REDACTED]  at  Sunset  and  Vine,  and  Wallichs  Music  City,  and  Hulla-  baloo,  formerly  Earl  Carroll's,  and  I'm  popping  back  on  my  pipes  and  sending  out  a  great  anti-linear  message.  Ex-  cept  this  chick  decided  she  didn't  want  to  get  off  at  Argyle  Ave.  after  all,  so  we  take  in  this  Limey  flick  at  the  Pantages.  All  about  birds  and  blokes,  and  how  they  do  cut  up  over  there.  Outside,  afterwards,  we  stood  on  the  bronze  stars  in  the  sidewalk  commemo-  rating  Sabu  and  Hugh  Herbert,  but  no  vibrations  seemed  to  come  through  from  the  past.  Then  we  made  one  of  those  stroboscopic  mind-bending  opti-  cal  symphonic  nerve  spasms  at  Hulla-  baloo,  so  loud  they're  absolutely  tactile,  man,  then  to  The  Fifth  Estate,  hq.  for  the  revolt,  where  over  coffee  I  start  messing  with  this  chick's  mind  and  she  ends  up  messing  with  mine.  Next  morning  I  take  her  back  to  her  place,  some  real  funky  turn-of-the-  century  two-story  in  the  Silverlake  area  she  shares  with  five  birds  (I  pick  up  that  Midlands  talk  fast)  and  two  un-  employable  hard-rock  guitarists.  And  so,  wheeling  back  up  [REDACTED],  good-  day  sunshine  and  all  that,  I'm  begin-  ning  to  think,  Who  needs  this  monog-  amy  bit?  Bibi  and  I  havebeen  mak-  ing  it  together  for  nearly  six  months  (which  isn't  a  patch  on  Sonny  and  Ch\xc3\xa9r,  but  it'll  do  until  the  real  thing  comes  along)  and  I  start  thinking,  Who  needs  her,  with  her  absolutely  to-  tally  permanent  strep  throat,  eyes  that  cross  when  she  gets  nervous,  extra  X  chromosomes,  more  rapid  pulsebeat,  less  cold  receptors  in  her  legs,  and  all  the  rest  of  the  McCall's  medical-col-  umn  mystique?  That's  what  I'm  still  thinking  the  next  night  as  I  walk  across  town.  Where  are  my  wheels,  I  can  hear  you  ask.  Well,  some  grass-head  I  know  who  lives  next  door  starts  fooling  around  with  my  bike,  doing  wheelies,  and  busts  the  front  suspension.  What  I'm  looking  for  this  particular  night  is  my  kid  brother,  who  is  making  this  scene  now  that  he's  dropped  out  of  Riverside.  They  call  it  &quot;dropping  out  of  the  whole  rat  race.&quot;  I  don't  know  what  he's  living  off  of.  I  mean  I  don't  know  what  he  expects  to  live  off  of.  The  problem  with  this  dropping  out  is  how  are  we  going  to  get  anything  done?  I  mean,  who's  going  to  take  care  of  the  store?  Anyway,  I'm  think-  ing  I  better  check  up  on  the  kid  before  I  read  all  about  him  in  a  story  in  the  local  kept  press  headed  &quot;GIANT  NARCO  BUST.&quot;  So  I  head  for  the  newsstand  on  Las  Palmas  where  he  does  all  his  reading  of  the  Free  Press,  Minority  of  One,  Ramparts,  Playboy,  Car  and  Driver,  and  Hot  Boat.  I  don't  know  why  they  suffer  his  kind  at  that  spot.  He  spends  three  or  four  hours  brows-  ing  and  never  leaves  a  nickel.  Of  course  the  engineers  from  the  [REDACTED]  come  in  and  furtively  buy  nudist  mags,  which  helps  take  up  the  slack.  Well,  hewasn't  at  Las  Palmas,  so  I  legged  it  out  the  [REDACTED]  to  his  other  hangout.  I'm  going  clear  out  to  Whis-  ky  A  Go  Go,  which  is  an  out-of-sight  place.  It  is  even  more  out  of  sight  when  you  try  to  walk  there.  The  kid  usually  stands  out  front  there,  or  down  by  Sneaky  Pete's,  and  hands  out  pam-  phlets  headed  &quot;Where  Is  Oswald  Now  That  We  Need  Him?&quot;  or  advertising  the  latest  exploit  of  his  band  of  anarch-  ists,  which  he  calls  the  Provos.  He  nev-  er  goes  in  these  places,  because  it  costs  three  or  four  bills  I'm  getting  so  pooped  I  almost  stop  at  Cinematheque  16,  but  the  poster  out  front  reads,  &quot;Men  in  a  massage  parlor  reaching  out  to  each  other  for  love,&quot;  and  I  just  didn't  think  I  could  handle  that.  Any-  way,  I  finally  made  it  to  Whisky  and  ees  he  says,  &quot;What  are  you  turn- found  the  kid  standing  by  the  door  with  all  the  hippies,  two  or  three  of  which  look  like  they're  flying  on  morn-  ing-glory  seeds  or  whatever.  So  I  talk  him  into  splitting  the  scene  and  we  start  hitchhiking  back  down  Sunset,  and  just  like  that  the  Nabs  stop  us  for  bumming  rides,  Section  21957  Cali-  fornia  Vehicle  Code.  After  they  lay  the  paper  on  us  we  go  right  back  to  thumbing  again.  So  this  citizen  picks  us  up  in  a  wide-  track  Pontiac,  and  right  away  thekid  and  I  start  going  at  it  hot  and  heavy.  What's  he  going  to  do  for  bread,  I  ask,  now  that  he's  lost  his  scholarship  at  Riverside?  He  says  private  proper-  ty  is  a  bad  bag  anyway,  and  any-  body  can  always  pick  up  enough  bread.  The  Diggers  are  going  to  set  up  a  free  kitchen  down  here  and  dispense  meals-he  learned  all  about  it  at  the  Love-In  at  Elysian  Park.  Then  ing  into-Mr.  Brown  Shoes?&quot;  (Now  I'm  Billy  Brown  Shoes.  How  quickly  you  lose  it.)  I  said,  I  suppose  the  Provos  know  all  the  an-  swers.  He  says,  They  know  a  few,  and  I  said,  Yeah,  like  calling  a  National  Glue  Week  and  then  gluing  all  the  Santa  Monica  phone  receivers  down.  All  the  while,  this  guy  who  picked  us  up  is  taking  everything  in  with  both  ears  flapping,  and  I'm  hoping  tohell  he  isn't  undercover  heat,  because  they're  thick  as  flies  out  here.  Anyway,  the  kid  put-  ting  me  down  like  that  got  me  think-  ing.  Overnight  the  scene  has  passed  me  by.  Well,  sayonara,  bright  youth.  Bon-  jour,  Compoz  Generation.  o  HE  next  day  I  started  at  [REDACTED].  Well,  about  one  like  we  finish  this  scene  where  I'm  in  this  bar  and  " b"you  can  probably  only  see  about  one-  quarter  of  me  because  this  fender-head  keeps  leaning  into  my  camera  line,  but  before  I  can  fix  that  the  director  says,  Print  it  and  we'll  move  in  for  closeups  after  lunch.  It'll  probably  end  up  on  the  cutting-room  floor  anyway.  (I'd  sure  like  to  see  that  cutting-room  floor  some-  time.  I'll  bet  it's  a  mess.)  So  I  head  for  the  commissary  and  I'm  noshing  it  up  like  mad  when  what  a  shock!  There's  Trevor  Winston  having  a  sandwich  by  himself  way  over  in  the  corner.  He's  apparently  working  in  a  flick  here,  That's  when  I  think  of  this  plan.  Each  day  that  week  I  start  edg-  ing  a  little  closer  to  histable.  To  make  friends,  you  know.  I  want  to  find  out  what  he's  up  to  with  Bibi.  Finally,  one  day,  I  catch  his  eye  and  he  smiles  back  and  asks  me  to  join  him.  The  next  day  he  invites  me  into  the  Walnut  Room,  which  is  where  the  top  brass  at  [REDACTED]  eats.  Well,  one  thing  leads  to  another  and  a  few  days  later  he  asks  me  up  to  his  pad  on  Alpine  Drive  to  play  a  game  of  chess.  So  that  night  I  bum  a  ride  up  there  with  this  guy  who  drives  a  '38  Packard  hearse,  which  he  uses  to  carry  his  surfboard  in.  Anyway,  Trevor  and  I  go  at  it  an  hour  or  so  and  finally  when  I  get  him  a  knight,  a  rook,  and  three  pawns  down  he  de-  c'des  to  throw  in.  Once  ortwice  I  ask  him  about  Bibi  but  I  get  nothing  out  of  him  but  this  throat-clearing  and  a  very  strange  look.  We  play  another  game  and  I  lose.  I  must  have  really  been  shook  up  about  Bibi,  because  he's  such  a  potzer  I  swear  I  could  normally  tromp  him  blindfolded  with  a  three-  pece  handicap.  The  next  day  we  shoot  this  scene  at  [REDACTED],  and  this  time  I'm  right  up  front.  I've  got  four  lines  where  I  argue  with  this  guyand  I  throw  in  a  kind  of  l'ttle  put-down  look,  which  I  learned  by  watching  Leonard  Nimoy,  who  plays  Spock  the  Vulcan  on  &quot;Star  Trek.&quot;  If  they  leave  that  scene  in  you're  gonna  hear  from  me,  but  with  my  luck  some  guy  in  Developing  will  ruin  it.  Well,  I  don't  even  know  if  I  want  to  eat,  the  way  I've  been  feeling  lately,  but  I  head  for  the  commissary  and  who's  standing  out  front  picking  his  teeth  but  Bibi's  agent.  Got  to  talking  about  Trevor  and  he  says  Trevor  is  leaving  town  in  a  few  days.  He'll  be  gone  two  weeks  and  they're  going  to  shoot  around  him  till  he  gets  back.  &quot;What  for?&quot;  I  say,  and  he  says  Trevor  is  getting  married.  &quot;Not  to  Bibi?&quot;  I  say,  with  this  Wal-  ter  Brennan  quaver,  &quot;No,  not  Bibi,&quot;  he  says,  surprised.  &quot;Why  Bibi?&quot;   I  saidI  thought  she  was  seeing  a  lot  of  him.  &quot;Oh,  that,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Trevor  owed  me  seven  or  eight  bills  on  an  old  con-  tract  about  five  years  ago  and  I  told  him  I'd  drop  the  matter  if  he'd  take  this  young  kid  I  handle  out  around  town  and  give  her  a  little  exposure  and  introduce  her  to  a  few  people.&quot;  &quot;How'd  he  like  her?&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Like  her?&quot;  he  says.  &quot;He  called  me  up  after  he  took  her  out  the  first  time  and  says  he  wants  to  pay  the  eight  bills  instead,  and  I  said  no  go,  a  deal  is  a  deal.  He  tells  me  she's  going  on  all  night  about  gautama,  the  various  stagesof  satori,  and  something  about  basic-encounter  groups,  and  Trevor  can't  make  hide  nor  hair  out  of  it.  He  never  read  a  book  in  his  life.  He  also  says  she  doesn't  understand  how  to  dress  up  sharp.  Always  wearing  black  tights  under  her  dress  and  other  kinds  of  kinky  gear.  Frankly,  if  you  want  my  opinion,  Trevor  is  right.  This  kid  is  a  dangerous  ding-a-ling  and  I  don't  know  why  I  handle  her.  I  don't  make  phone  calls  off  her.&quot;  Well,  Frank,  I'm  afraid  that's  when  I  blew  my  cool  and  dumped  him  right  on  his  handle.  Oh,  boy,  wait'll  that  gets  around  town.  I  won't  be  ableto  make  a  newsreel.  Oh,  well,  if  I  ever  do  hit  the  top,  at  least  I  won't  have  any  friends  to  turn  my  back  on.  That  night  I  borrowed  this  same  '38  Packard  hearse  and  picked  up  Bibi  as  she  came  out  of  her  psychodrama  session  down  on  La  Cienega.  She  says  it's  a  great  machine  and  I  should  have  had  it  when  I  was  toting  that  coffin  around,  and  then  we  went  over  to  Aware  Inn  andhad  some  macrobiotic  goodies  and  discussed  our  common  kar-  ma.  And  I'm  here  to  say,  buddy,  that  I've  developed  an  absolute  bias  for  pleasant  things  over  unpleasant  as  I  go  deeper  into  the  second  half  of  my  twen-  tics.  But  then  a  few  days  later  I  began  to  have  these  second  thoughts.  Like,  hold  everything,  the  inquiry  sign  is  up.  Why  didn't  Bibi  tell  me  about  this  Winston  cat?  About  the  business  ar-  rangement  they  had  and  all?  Is  this  kid  trying  to  psych  me  out?  But  what  for?  It's  then  I  had  a  horrible  thought.  Could  she  be  thinking  about  maneuver-  ing  me  into  thebig  square  box-mar-  riage?  The  evidence  was  there:  she  was  hoping  I'd  get  jealous.  And  I  have  such  great  respect  for  this  kid.  Where  did  I  go  wrong?  So,  anyway,  that's  the  story.  I'm  thinking  of  calling  Radio  Free  Oz  for  advice.  Peter  will  know  what  to  do.  He'll  consult  his  tarot  cards.  Or  per-  haps  find  the  answer  lurking  in  &quot;The  Twenty-six  Songs  of  Rabindranath  Tagore.&quot;  So  keep  tuned  for  late  bul-  letins,  baby.  Ciao,  Race  "