 b"OUR  group  is  against  the  war.  But  the  war  goes  on.  I  was  sent  to  [REDACTED]  to  talk  to  the  engineers.  The  engineers  were  meeting  in  [REDACTED].  I  was  supposed  to  per-  suade  them  not  to  do  what  they  are  going  to  do.  I  tookUnited's  4:45  from  LaGuardia  arriving  in  [REDACTED]  at  6:13.  [REDACTED]  is  dark  blue  at  that  hour.  I  went  directly  to  the  motel,  where  the  engineers  were  meeting.  Hundreds  of  engineers  attended  the  [REDACTED]  meeting.  I  noticed  many  fractures  among  the  engineers,  band-  ages,  traction.  I  noticed  what  appeared  to  be  fractureof  the  carpal  scaphoid  in  six  examples.  I  noticed  numerous  fractures  of  the  humeral  shaft,  of  the  os  calcis,  of  the  pelvic  girdle.I  no-  ticed  a  high  incidence  of  clay-shovel-  ler's  fracture.  I  could  not  account  for  these  fractures.  The  engineers  were  making  calculations,  taking  measure-  ments,  sketching  on  the  blackboard,  drinking  beer,  throwing  bread,  button-  holing  employers,  hurling  glasses  into  the  fireplace.  They  were  friendly.  They  were  friendly.  They  were  full  oflove  and  information.  The  chief  en-  gineer  wore  shades.  Patella  in  Monk's  traction-clamshell  fracture  by  the  look  of  it.  He  was  standing  in  a  slum  of  beer  bottles  and  microphone  cable.  &quot;Have  some  of  this  chicken  &amp;  la  Isam-  bard  Kingdom  Brunel  the  Great  In-  gineer,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  declare  who  you  are  and  what  we  can  do  for  you.  What  is  your  line,  distinguished  guest?&quot;  &quot;Software,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;In  every  sense.  I  am  here  representinga  small  group  of  interested  parties.  We  are  interested  in  your  thing,  which  seems  to  be  func-  tioning.  In  the  midst  of  so  much  dysfunc-  tion,  function  is  interesting.  Other  peo-  ple's  things  don't  seem  to  be  working.  The  State  Department's  thing  doesn't  seem  to  be  working.  The  U.N.'s  thing  doesn't  seem  to  be  working.  The  demo-  cratic  left's  thing  doesn't  seem  to  be  working.  Buddha's  thing-&quot;  &quot;Ask  us  anything  aboutour  thing,  which  seems  to  be  working,&quot;  the  chief  engineer  said.  &quot;We  will  open  our  hearts  and  heads  to  you,  Software  Man,  be-  cause  we  want  to  be  understood  and  loved  by  the  great  lay  public,  and  have  our  marvels  appreciated  by  that  public,  for  which  we  daily  unsung  produce  tons  of  new  marvels  each  more  life-en-  hancing  than  the  last.  Ask  us  anything.  Do  you  want  to  know  about  evaporated  thin-film  metallurgy?  Monolithic  and  hybrid  integrated-circuit  processes?  The  algebra  of  inequalities?  Optimiza-  tion  theory?  Complex  high-speed  micro-  miniature  closed  and  open  loop  systems?  Fixed  variable  mathematical  cost  searches?  Epitaxial  deposition  of  semi-  conductor  materials?  Gross  interfaced  space  gropes?  We  also  have  specialists  in  the  cuckooflower,  the  doctorfish,  and  the  dumdum  bullet  as  these  relateto  aspects  of  today's  expanding  technology,  and  they  do  in  the  damnedest  ways.&quot;  I  spoke  to  him  then  about  the  war.  I  said  the  same  things  people  always  say      when  they  speak  against  the  war.  I  said  that  the  war  was  wrong.  I  said  that  large  countries  should  not  burn  down  small  countries.  I  said  that  the  govern-  ment  had  made  a  series  of  errors.  I  said  that  these  errors  once  small  and  forgiv-  able  were  now  immense  and  unforgiv-  able.  I  said  that  the  government  was  at-  tempting  to  conceal  its  original  errors  under  layers  of  new  errors.  Isaid  that  the  government  was  sick  with  error,  giddy  with  it.  I  said  that  ten  thousand  of  our  soldiers  had  already  been  killed  in  pursuit  of  the  government's  errors.  Isaid  thattens  of  thousands  of  the  en-  emy's  soldiers  and  civilians  had  been  killed  because  of  various  errors,  ours  and  theirs.  I  said  that  we  are  responsible  for  errors  made  in  our  name.  I  said  that  the  government  shouldnot  be  al-  lowed  to  make  additional  errors.  &quot;'Yes  yes,&quot;  the  chief  engineer  said,  &quot;there  is  doubtless  much  truth  in  what  you  say,  but  we  can't  possibly  lose  the  war,  can  we?  And  stopping  is  losing,  isn't  it?  The  war  regarded  as  a  process,  stopping  regarded  as  an  abort?  We  don't  know  How  to  lose  a  war.  That  skill  is  not  among  our  skills.  Our  array  smashes  their  array,  that  is  what  we  know.  That  is  the  process.  That  is  what  is.  &quot;But  let's  not  have  any  more  of  this  dispiriting  downbeat  counter-produc-  tive  talk.  I  have  a  few  new  mar-  vels  here  I'd  like  to  discuss  with  you  just  briefly.  A  few  new  marvels  that  are  just  about  ready  to  be  gaped  at  by  the  admiring  layman.  Consider  for  instance  the  area  of  realtimeonline  computer-  controlled  wish  evaporation.  Wish  evaporation  is  going  to  be  crucial  in  meeting  the  rising  expectations  of  the  world's  peoples,  which  are  as  you  know  rising  entirely  too  fast.&quot;  I  noticed  then  distributed  about  the  room  a  great  many  transverse  fractures  of  the  ulna.  &quot;The  development  of  the  pseudo-ruminant  stomach  for  under-  developed  peoples,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;is  one  of  our  interesting  things  you  should  be  interested  in.  With  the  pseudo-rumi-  nant  stomach  they  can  chew  cuds,  that  is  to  say,  eat  grass.  Blue  is  the  most  pop-  ular  color  worldwide  and  for  that  rea-  son  we  are  working  with  certain  strains  of  your  native  [REDACTED]  Pose  pratensis,  or  bluegrass,  as  the  staple  input  for  the  p,/'r  stomach  cycle,  which  would  also  give  a  shot  in  the  arm  to  our  balance-of-  payments  thing  don't  you  know.  ...&quot;  I  noticed  about  me  then  a  great  number  of  metatarsal  fractures  in  banjo  splints.  &quot;'The  kangaroo  initiative  .  .  .  eight  hun-  dred  thousand  harvested  last  year  ...  highest  percentage  of  edible  protein  of  any  herbivore  yet  studied  .  ..&quot;     " b"&quot;Have  new  kangaroos  been  planted?&quot;  The  engineer  looked  at  me.  &quot;I  intuit  your  hatred  and  jealousy  of  our  thing,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  ineffectual  always  hate  our  thing  and  speak  of  it  as  anti-  human,  which  is  not  at  all  a  meaningful  way  to  speak  of  our  thing.  Nothing  mechanical  is  alien  to  me,&quot;  he  said  (amber  spots  making  bursts  of  light  in  his  shades),  &quot;because  I  am  hu-  man,  in  a  sense,  and  if  I  think  it  up,  then  &quot;t  is  human  too,  what-  ever  't'  may  be.  Let  me  tell  you,  Software  Man,  we  have  been  damned  forbearing  in  the  matter  of  this  little  war  you  de-  clare  yourself  to  be  interested  in.  Function  is  the  cry,  and  our  thing  is  functioning  like  crazy.  There  are  things  we  could  do  that  we  have  not  done.  Steps  we  could  take  that  we  have  not  taken.  These  steps  are,  regarded  in  a  certain  light,  the  light  of  our  enlightened  self-interest,  quite  justifiable  steps.  We  could,  of  course,  get  irritated.  We  could,  of  course,  lose  patience.  &quot;We  could,  of  course,  release  thousands  upon  thousands  of  self-powered  crawling-along-  the-ground  lengths  of  titanium  wire  eighteen  inches  long  with  a  diameter  of  0005  centimetres  (that  is  to  say,  in-  visible)  which,  scenting  an  enemy,  climb  up  his  trouser  leg  and  wrap  themselves  around  his  neck.  We  have  developed  those.  They  are  within  our  capabilities  We  could,  of  course,  re-  lease  in  the  arena  of  the  upper  air  our  new  improved  pufferfish  toxin  which  precipitates  an  identity  crisis.  No  special  technical  problems  there.  That  is  al-  most  laughably  easy.  We  could,  of  course,  place  up  to  two  million  mag-  gots  in  their  rice  within  twenty-four  hours.  The  maggots  are  ready,  massed  in  secret  staging  areas  in  [REDACTED].  We  have  hypodermic  darts  capable  of  pic-  balding  the  enemy's  pigmentation.  We  have  rots,  blights,  and  rusts  capable  of  attacking  his  alphabet.  Those  are  dan-  dies.  We  have  a  hut-shrinking  chemi-  cal  which  penetrates  the  fibres  of  the  bamboo,  causing  it,  the  hut,  to  strangle  its  occupants.  This  operates  only  after  10  [REDACTED],  when  people  are  sleeping.  Their  mathematics  are  at  the  mercy  of  a  suppurating  surd  we  have  invented.  We  have  a  family  of  fishes  trained  to  attack  their  fishes.  We  have  the  deadly  testicle-destroying  telegram.  The  cable  companies  are  cooperating.  We  have  a  green  substance  that,  well,  I'd  rather  not  talk  about.  We  have  a  secret  word  that,  if  pronounced,  produces  multiple  fractures  in  all  living  things  in  an  area  the  size  of  four  football  fields.&quot;  &quot;That's  why-&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Some  damned  fool  couldn't  keep  his  mouth  shut.  The  point  is  that  the  whole  structure  of  enemy  life  is  within  our  power  to  rend,  vitiate,  de-  vour,  and  crush.  But  that's  not  the  in-  teresting  thing.&quot;  &quot;You  recount  these  possibilities  with  uncommon  relish.&quot;  &quot;Yes  I  realize  that  there  is  too  much  relish  here.  But  you  must  realize  that  these  capabilities  represent  in  and  of  themselves  highly  technical  and  com-  plex  and  interesting  problems  and  hur-  dles  on  which  our  boys  have  expended  many  thousands  of  hours  of  hard  work  and  brilliance.  And  that  the  effects  are  often  grossly  exaggerated  by  irresponsi-  ble  victims.  And  that  the  whole  thing  represents  a  fantastic  series  of  triumphs  for  the  multi-disciplined  problem-solv-  ing  team  concept.&quot;  &quot;I  appreciate  that.&quot;  &quot;We  could  unleash  all  this  technolo-  gy  at  once.  You  can  imagine  what  would  happen  then.  But  that's  not  the  interesting  thing.&quot;  &quot;What  is  the  interesting  thing?&quot;  &quot;The  interesting  thing  is  that  we     have  a  moral  sense.  It  is  on  punched  cards,  perhaps  the  most  advanced  and  sensitive  moral  sense  the  world  has  ever  known.&quot;  &quot;Because  it  is  on  punched  cards  &quot;It  considers  all  considerations  in  endless  and  subtle  detail,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  even  quibbles.  With  this  great  new  moral  tool,  how  can  we  go  wrong?  I  confidently  predict  that,  although  we  could  employ  all  this  splendid  new  weaponry  I've  been  telling  you  about,  we're  not  going  to  do  it.&quot;  &quot;We're  not  going  to  do  it?&quot;  I  took  United's  5:44  from  Cleve-  land  arriving  at  Newark  at  7:19.  New  Jersey  is  bright  pink  at  that  hour.  Liv-  ing  things  move  about  the  surface  of  New  Jersey  at  that  hour  molesting  each  other  only  in  traditional  ways.  I  made  my  report  to  the  group.  I  stressed  the  friendliness  of  the  engineers.  I  said,  It's  all  right.  I  said,  We  have  a  moral  sense.  I  said,  We're  not  going  to  do  it.  They  didn't  believe  me."