 b"(A  PRACTICAL,  SHORT,  CONCISE,  ABBREVIATED  MANUAL  BY  LUTHER  PLAUT  CRANE,  PH.D.,  PROFESSOR  OF  ENGLISH,  MIRANDA  COLLEGE,  LEWOSSET,  WIs-  CONSIN;  EMILY  R.  SAUMANDER,  [REDACTED],  ASSOCIATE  PROFESSOR  OF  SEMANTIC  IN-  TERPRETATION,  LIVE  OAKS  COLLEGE,  DEMAINE,  LOUISIANA;  AND  GREGG  ELL  FANNING,  PH.D.,  CHAIRMAN  OF  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  HUMANITIES,  HANLING-GRAYSON  COLLEGE,  SILLISON,  SOUTH  DAKOTA.)  HE  sole  purpose  of  this  manual  is  to  help  you  help  yourself  to  bet-  ter  prepare  yourself  for  the  stand-  ard  college-entrance  examinations.  The  sample  tests  included  are  of  the  sort  you  will  encounter  when  you  sit  down  to  face  the  real  college-entrance  tests,  on  which  so  much  of  your  future,  and  that  of  your  peer  group,  depends.  College,  after  all,  is  life,  and  life  is  college,  and  we  must  all  be  prepared,  daily,  to  face  tests  both  large  and  small.  How  you  approach  these  tests  will  determine  the  extent  of  your  success  or  failure.  So  the  college-  entrance  tests  are,  in  essence,  a  micro-  cosm  of  the  world  at  large.  The  sample  tests  provide  you  with  an  opportunity  to  approach  the  testing  process  without  tension  or  confusion.  Practice  and  drill  are  required,  in  conjunction  with  a  de-  termined  effort  on  your  part  to  master  the  elements  of  maintaining  STEADY  NERVES,  a  cool  head,  and  the  ability-  important,  perhaps,  above  all  others  to  project  your  thinking  onto  the  ex-  amination  paper  without  fogginess  or  obfuscation.  DON'T  JUMP  TO  CONCILU-  SIONS.  Take  your  time,  but  don't  take  too  much  time.  Sloppy  thinking  leads  to  academic  disaster.  Therefore,  let  clarity  of  thought  be  your  watchword!  To  at-  tain  the  necessary  clarity,  KEEP  CALM!  A.  Completion  of  Sentences.  This  is  essentially  a  drill  in  vocabulary  con-  trol-a  key  to  success  in  college  and  in  life.  Read  the  sentences  below,  and  then  underline  from  among  those  words  that  appear  in  the  lists  below  them  the  one  word  that  in  your  reasoned  view  will  complete  the  sentence  and  make  it  meaningful  for  yourself  and  for  others.  DON'T  JUMP  TO  CONCLUSIONS.  The  correct  answer  is  always  fair  (there  are  no  tricks  or  booby  traps)  and  based  upon  a  consensus  reached  by  trained  educators  with  long  experience  in  college-entrance  examinations.  Rush-  ing-or,  to  put  it  another  way,  pan-  icking-simply  will  not  produce  the  re-  quired  results.  Remember,  KEEP  CALM!  1.  The  Great  White  Way  held  out  for  him  and  for  many  of  his  con-  temporaries  a  that  could  not  be  assuaged  by  participation  in  mere  stroll-  ing  through  more  mundane  areas  of  the  urban  complex.  (a)  noodle  (b)  megalopolis  (c)  conduit  (d)  nudging  2.  The  ebb  and  flow  of  humanity  through  the  portals  of  the  terminal  convinced  him,  in  a  sudden  wave  of  ,  that  life's  transient  qualities  are  mysterious.  (a)  motel  (c)  galvanometry  (b)  penumbra  (d)  mohair  3.  It  is  often  necessary,  in  a  cure  for  the  world's  ills,  to  keep  in  mind  the  swirlingly  convergent  and  turbulent  currents  that  wash  the  shores  of  groups  other  than  our  own.  (a)  sanding  (c)  fricasseeing  (b)  snooding  (d)  waffling  4.  No  one,  least  of  all  the  Chief  Justice  himself,  felt  that  in  the  dark,  recessed  corners  of  his  mind  he  had  been  to  encompass  all  facets  of  human  wisdom.  (a)  coagulated  (c)  apostrophied  (b)  keened  (d)  vandalized  5.  Is  it  not  possible,  we  may  right-  ly  ask,  that  in  the  search  for  equity  the  disadvantaged  often  find  themselves  marching  to  the  tune  of  a  distant  drum?  (a)  pygmy  (b)  gaslit  (c)  dusty  (d)  Calvinist  B.  Synonyms.  Synonyms  are  as  es-  sential  to  daily  life  as  bread  and  water.  Man  cannot  operate  without  synonyms,  since  they  are  an  integral  factor  in  hu-  man  communication.  But  to  find  the  right  matching  word  requires  intense  self-discipline  and,  lest  you  have  for-  gotten,  STEADY  NERVES.  Underline  in  the  lists  below  the  one  word  that  you  feel  is  appropriate.  There  are  no  gray  areas  here,  no  room  for  doubt.  Apply  yourself  and  KEEP  COOL!  1.  Forsootn  (a)  acrid  (b)  Novocain  (c)  brazen  (d)  yoicks  (a)  flattery  (b)  enzyme  (c)  succinet  (d)  creamy  idealistic  (b)  flotage  (c)  altitude  (d)  Plantagenet  (a)  hiccup  (b)  rotten  borough  (c)  duckling  (d)  grizzled  C,.  Reading  Comprehension.  Read-  ing  comprehension  is  hugely  important,  2.  MasquERADE  3.  Jetsam  (a)  4.  Pacopa   since  it  is  hugely  important  to  compre-  hend  what  one  is  reading.  The  two  passages  below  were  penned  by  serious,  well-known  writers  seriously  attempt-  ing  to  communicate  their  thoughts  to  the  reader.  It  is  your  job  to  ascertain  what  these  writers  are  trying  to  tell  you.  Should  the  passages  seem  meaningless  at  first,  read  them  again  slowly,  keeping  an  attentive  eye  out  for  key  phrases,  hints  of  major  motifs,  primary  and  secondary  ideas,  local  color,  minor  characterizations  that  throw  an  oblique,  but  essential,  light  on  the  general  sit-  uation,  and  the  symbolism  that  often  lurks  behind  the  theme.  Small  matters  are  often  important;  e.g.,  the  twitch  of  a  cheek,  the  wagging  of  a  dog's  tail,  the  hollow  sound  of  a  church  bell  at  midnight,  and  so  on.  Clear  think-  ing  is  the  cognate  of  vital  action  and  thought.  KEEP  YOUR  WITS  ABOUT  vou!  I.  Although  economics  is  generally  conceded  to  be  the  &quot;dismal  science,&quot;  the  art  of  politics  produces  within  the  thin  veneer  of  its  delicate  balances  of  men  and  motives  an  aura  no  less  gradated  in  the  depths  of  the  art  of  governing,  as  distinct  from  the  art  of  maneuvering  into  the  position  of  governing,  than  the  simplest  formula  applied  to  the  ratio  of  wages  to  man-hours  to  profits.  Many  earnest  men,  confusing  the  aphorisms,  have  slipped  on  the  mossy  slopes  of  easy  sociopolitical  assumptions  and  have  found  themselves,  too  late,  delving  prodigiously  into  divergent  fields  of  the  discussion  of  men  versus  machines  when  their  time  could  have  been  put  to  bet-  ter  advantage  probing  the  human  mo-  tive  that  brought  the  cotter  from  the  shackles  and  torments  of  the  thatch  to  the  loose  and  rampantly  undisciplined  advantages  of  the  pre-packaged.  Heed-  less  of  progress,  the  two  disciplines  tend  to  collide  blindly,  sans  reason,  pro-  viding  density  seldom  if  ever  encoun-  tered  in  the  more  ascertainable  adven-  tures  of  mankind,  But  who  is  to  gainsay  the  ultimate  worth,  or  worthlessness,  of  the  setbacks?  1.  The  passage  would  appear  to  justify  (a)  the  Ludlow  Riots  (b)  prodigious  consumption  (c)  the  Corn  Law  of  1815  (d)  premarital  relations.  2.  Does  the  author  (a)  express  confidence  in  ladies'  garment  work-  ers?  (b)  hold  them  partially  respon-  sible  for  minor  social  ills?  (c)  oppose  labor  unions?  (d)  advocate  a  guar-  anteed  annual  wage?  3.  Would  you  assume  that  the  writer  was  (a)  left  of  center?  (b)  rich?  (c)  a_  poet  mangu\xc3\xa9e?  a  Southern  Californian?  (d)  " b"4.  The  writer  wo  uld  seem  to  be  saying  that  (a)  life  proceeds  vertical-  ly  (b)  his  interests  are  more  parochial  than  they  seem  (c)  the  stars  remai  n  constant  (d)  there  was  mor  e  to  the  ancien  r\xc3\xa9gime  than  met  the  eye.  II.  T  here  was  no  doubt  about  it,  Mr.  Crandall  concluded,  the  melons  were  soft  and  p  oorly  formed,  perhaps  even  without  his  being  able,  without  cutting  into  one  as  though  he  were  sampling  it,  to  determine  whether  the  taste  was  firmer  in  texture  than  the  flesh  of  the  melon  itself.  Crandall's  vexations  were  no  less  disputatious  than  those  of  his  elderly  au  nt,  M  rs.  Farouche,  whose  met  hod  of  determining  the  app  ropr  i-  ateness  of  fruit,  not  only  from  the  aes-  thetic  angle  but  from  the  point  of  view  of  those  whose  breakfasts  depended  upon  it,  had  been  handed  down  to  her  in  the  form  of  an  old  family  secret,  much  as  an  heirloom  jewel  is  passed  along  from  generation  to  generation  with  the  admonition  to  treasure  the  article  with  one's  life  bloo  d  s  hould  the  need  arise.  &quot;&quot;You  have  totally  destr  oyed  the  seamier  side  of  the  peach,&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Farouche,  &quot;and  now  you  are  ab  out  t  o  wreak  h  avoc  with  our  Thurs-  day  melons!&quot;  &quot;No  end  remains  in  sight,&quot;  s  aid  Mr.  Crandal  l  in  rejoinder,  &quot;except  to  deal  hastily  and  without  sen-  tment  elsewhere.&quot;  Giova  n  ni's  cart  trembled.  &quot;May  the  donkeys  of  the  earth  ca  st  do  wn  their  fiercest  curses,&quot;  h  e  shouted,  &quot;and  bring  both  famine  and  flood!&quot;  Mr.  Crandall's  smile  was  triple-edged  and  cur  led.  &quot;Giovanni,&quot;  he  exclaimed,  with  as  much  control  as  he  could  rationally  mus  ter,  &quot;youseem  incapable  of  comprehending  that  a  mat-  ter  of  principle  rather  than  of  purchase  enters  into  the  ratiocinations  of  Mrs.  Farouche!  Her  needs  are  less  than  the  needs  of  the  world,  but  the  needs  of  the  world  are  less  than  her  own.&quot;  On  this  note  of  seemingly  unresolvable  conflict  the  matter  rested,  with  no  one  justified  in  saying,  &quot;Aye,  the  laurel  wreath!&quot;  1.  The  author  is  urging  (a)  the  emancipation  of  women  (b)  rejec-  tion  of  the  philosophy  of  caveat  emptor  (c)  insistence  upon  the  mutability  of  valves  (d)  re\xc3\xa9xamination  of  the  role  of  beasts  of  burden.  2.  Mr.  Crandall  desires  @e  comprehension  of  the  necessity  for  re-  flection  (b)  worldwide  distribution  of  agricultural  information  (c)  evaluat-  ing  of  long-held  sentiments  (d)  au-  thenticating  of  the  brooch.  3.  The  passage  seriously  questions  (a)  the  future  of  Sicily  (b)  the  efficacy  of  bumper  crops  (c)  weekends  in  the  country  (d)  small  acts  of  courtesy.  4.  Is  Mrs.  Farouche  (a)  a  fer-  tility  symbol?  (b)  persistently  op-  posed  to  progress?  (c)  content  to  make  minor  compromises  with  her  be-  liefs?  (d)  A.W.O.L.}  Good  luck.  "