 b"IT  was  the  documents  that  finally  got  Swoboda  down.  His  colleagues  supposed  that  the  further  postpone-  ment  of  his  promotion  had  been  the  last  straw,  but  in  fact  it  was  the  documents  that  did  it.  In  the  past  he  had  been  ready  to  carry  out  the  often  tedious  duties  imposed  on  him  by  the  Organiza-  tion-he  was  by  nature  almost  too  ready  in  this  respect-but  the  docu-  ments  finally  did  it.  It  was  too  much.  Like  most  great  turning  points  in  life,  the  matter  presented  itself  gradual-  ly.  Mr.  Bekkus,  his  chief,  had  stopped  one  day  at  Swoboda's  desk  and  casually  asked,  &quot;Oh  Swoboda,  would  you,&quot;  and  Swoboda  had  said,  as  he  had  always  said,  &quot;Certainly,  Mr.  Bekkus,&quot;  and  that  was  how  it  began.  The  arrangement  was  that  he  would  send  out  these  docu-  ments  each  morning,  just  for  a  few  days,  until  someone  else  was  found  to  do  it.  The  documents,  which  came  in  various  related  series  all  beginning  with  the  symbol  &quot;sago&quot;  (Services  of  Administration  and  General  Guid-  ance),  then  started  to  arrive  daily,  in  stacks  of  one  hundred  apiece,  on  Swo-  boda's  desk.  He  had  been  instructed  to  send  them  out,  in  separate  large  brown  envelopes,  to  their  eighty-five  recipients  throughout  the  Organization,  in  his  spare  time.  But  several  factors  operated  against  this  plan.  In  the  first  place,  Swoboda  had  no  spare  time.  In  the  second  place,  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  attend  to  any  of  his  normal  cleri-  cal  work  until  he  had  cleared  the  stacks  of  documents  off  his  desk  each  morning;  by  then  much  of  the  day  was  gone  and  he  was  faced  with  the  necessity  of  staying  after  hours.  And  thirdly,  no  attempt  was  ever  made  to  find  another  person  to  cope  with  the  documents  and  they  were  thus  laid,  almost  literally,  at  Swoboda's  door  for-  ever.  Swoboda  was  not  a  brilliant  man.  He  was  a  man  of  what  used  to  be  known  as  average,  and  is  now  known  as  above-average,  intelligence.  'The  years  during  which  he  might  have  been  formally  educated  had  been  spent  by  him  in  a  camp  for  displaced  persons,  but  he  had  educated  himself  by  obser-  vation  and  reflection,  and  had  exploited  to  the  full  a  natural  comprehension  in  human  affairs.  He  was  not  audacious;  he  lacked  aptitude  for  self-advance-  ment.  As  a  member  of  the  Social  and  Anthropological  Division  once  put  it,  Swoboda  was  justed  to  his  prob-  lem.  However,  if  he  had  lost  his  op-  portunities,  he  had  kept  his  self-respect.  Now  he  felt  this  to  be  threatened.  Mr.  Bekkus  had  let  him  down-if  this  ex-  pression  may  be  used  where  there  has  been  no  bolstering  up.  The  work  was  not  fit  for  Swoboda  to  do.  It  was  work  one  might  have  given  a  deficient  per-  son  in  order  to  employ  him.  At  intervals,  in  the  course  of  his  years  with  the  Organization,  com-  mendatory  remarks  had  been  entered  on  Swoboda's  personal  file.  From  time  to  time,  one  of  his  superiors  had  told  him  that  he  deserved  promotion-that  it  was  a  pity,  even  a  disgrace,  that  nothing  had  been  done  for  him  by  those  responsible.  At  first,  on  these  occasions,  Swoboda  had  felt  encouraged  and  had  related  them  at  home  to  his  wife  as  a  guarantee  of  advancement  in  the  near  future.  Eventually,  however,  it  be-  came  clear  to  him  that  responsibility  for  his  promotion  lay  with  the  very  officials  who  deplored  his  situation,  and  that  they  had  no  intention  whatever  of  exerting  themselves  to  the  necessary  extent  on  his  behalf-having,  as  they  imagined,  dealt  with  the  matter  by  proclaiming  it  a  disgrace.  Their  exer-  tions,  if  any,  were  reserved  for  those  more  insistent,  less  self-effacing,  than  Swoboda.  Finally  grasping  this  situa-  tion,  Swoboda  declined  to  make  life  hideous  for  himself  and  those  about  him  by  constant  complaint,  as  was  the  habit  of  so  many  of  his  colleagues.  He  kept  his  trouble  to  himself  and  sought  consolation  in  his  natural  philosophy.  All  the  same,  it  hurt  him.  It  was  demoralizing.  It  amounted  simply  to  this-  that  no  one  was  willing  to  take  a  chance  on  him.  For  several  months  Swoboda uncomplainingly sent  out  the  SAGG  docu  ments  .  For  ho  l  aes  well  in  this  first  paidoc-  -  @Resii  s  ow  several  months  he  arrived  home  in  the  dark,  to  find  his  dinner  in  the  oven,  his  wife  in  distress,  his  child  already  in  bed.  If  he  were  absent  for  a  day,  for  illness  or  holiday,  he  was  haunted  by  the  certainty  that  a  double  load  of  documents  would  await  him  on  return.  During  his  annual  vacation,  an  empty  office  on  another  floor  had  to  be  appropriated  to  house  the  accumulation.  At  last  a  day  came  when  he  was  visited  by  a  sensation  that  had  been  familiar  to  him  years  before  but  that,  even  in  his  worst  moments  at  the  Or-  ganization,  he  had  not  re-experienced  until  now.  And  this  sensation  overcame  his  diffidence.  He  acted.  It  was  a  sensation  associated  with  his  first  job,  in  a  time  before  he  came  to  the  Organization.  Released  from  his\n D.P.  camp,  equipped  with  a  coveted  vi-  sa,  sped  on  his  way  by  relief  committees,  the  young  Swoboda  had  obtained  em-  ployment  in  a  fruit  factory.  Here  he  was  to  earn  his  first  wages  and  his  first  right  to  call  himself  an  independent  person.  This  factory  was  to  provide  the  slipway  from  which  his  sane  new  life  would  be  launched.  Here  the  world  would  make  amends  for  his  depriva-  tion.  Willing,  even  jubilant,  Swoboda  had  reported  for  duty  and  punched  his  clock  for  the  first  time.  The  section  of  the  factory  for  which  Swoboda  had  been  engaged  was  con-  cerned  with  the  treatment  of  cherries.  By  the  time  the  cherries,  in  vast  metal  trays,  came  to  Swoboda's  attention  they  had  already  been  divested  of  stalks,  stones,  and  color-in  short,  of  everything  that  had  hitherto  contrib-  uted  to  their  character  as  cherries.  Gouged  and  blanched,  they  had  then  been  immersed  in  a  crimson  dye,  so  that  their  color  might  emerge  uniform.  It  was  Swoboda's  task  to  attach  to  these  multitudinous,  incarnadined  cher-  ries  the  red  plastic  stalks-also  uni-  form-that  would  subsequently  enable  them  to  be  pulled  from  cocktails  and,  as  the  case  might  be,  eaten  or  discarded.  And  it  was  to  such  ends  that  he  dili-  gently  applied  himself  for  one  long  year.  The  job  at  the  fruit  factory,  as  has  been  noted,  was  important  to  Swoboda.  He  was  untrained.  He  had  no  other  means  of  making  his  living  in  a  new  country-a  country  of  whose  ways  he  was  ignorant  and  whose  lan-  guage  he  did  not,  at  that  time,  speak  with  confidence.  Moreover,  he  wished  to  acquit  himself  in  the  eyes  of  those  who  had  assisted  him.  boda  uncompla  ini  ngly  s  ent  eet  to  l  Above  all,  he  wanted  to  do  well in his first paid occcupation.  The  day  he  gave  his  notice  was  the  happiest  day  of  his  life.  And  now,  amid  the  sheaves  of  documents,  it  all  came  back  to  him.  Shaken  by  the  same  repugnance,  he  arrived  at  the  same  conclusion-that  such  work  was  not  for  the  adult  and  civilized,  not  for  mature  and  feeling  persons.  Swoboda  did  what  he  had  never  done:  he  took  an  extra  half  hour  at  lunchtime.  During  this  half  hour  he  made  his  way  to  the  Bureau  of  Lateral  Substitutions  and  requested  transfer  to  another  department.  NOMINEES  for  promotion  at  all  levels  were  considered  twice  a  year  at  the  Organization  by  the  Pro-  motions  and  Probations  Board,  and  " b"a  printed  list  of  the  successful  candidates  was  subsequently  circulated  throughout  the  Organization.  Since  those  con-  cerned  were  notified  in  advance  of  the  verdict  in  their  particular  case,  the  main  interest  of  the  list  lay  in  keeping  abreast  of  the  fortunes  of  one's  col-  leagues.  It  is  a  rare  heart  that  truly  re-  joices  in  a  friend's  prosperity,  and  it  must  be  confessed  that  the  offices  and  corridors  of  the  Organization  were  swept,  every  six  months,  by  gasps  of  indignation,  of  disgust,  of  incredulity  at  the  revelation  of  the  latest  promotions-and  by  cor-  respondingly  magnified  sighs  of  solici-  tude  on  behalf  of  those  rejected.  Just  such  gusts  as  these  were  sweep-  ing  the  small  grey  office  of  Mr.  Bekkus  when  Swoboda  entered  it  on  the  morn-  ing  of  the  half-yearly  list.  Mr.  Bek-  kus,  as  a  member  of  a  similar  group-  the  Appointments  and  Terminations  Board-was  practically  bound  to  hold  his  colleagues  on  this  parallel  body  in  low  esteem.  And  his  ill-humor  was  in-  creased,  that  day,  by  the  fact  that  he  was  once  more  faced  with  the  task  of  explaining  the  absence  of  Swoboda's  name  on  the  promotions  roster.  As  Swoboda  came  into  the  room,  Mr.  Bekkus  was  standing  by  the  win-  dow  and  holding  the  list  to  the  light  as  if  to  verify  the  evidence  of  his  eyes.  &quot;Claude  WiwWoughby!  Claude  Wil-  loughby!&quot;  he  repeated,  as  if  of  all  Claudes  this  was  the  most  unsuitable.  &quot;Cedric  Sandaranayke!  After  this,  any-  thing's  possible.  Sit  down,  Swoboda.&quot;  Still  standing  in  the  light,  Mr.  Bekkus  turned  the  page  and  read  on.  &quot;Ken-  neth  Eliufoo-that's  geographical  of  course,  though  it  won't  satisfy  the  Af-  ricans,  you  can  be  sure  of  that.  Paquita  Vargas-well,  we  all  know  how  she  got  here.  ...  And  I  see  old  Marcel  made  it  at  last.&quot;  Reluctantly  turning  from  self-  punishment,  he  replaced  the  list  on  his  desk  and  sat  down.  &quot;Er-Swoboda,&quot;  he  said,  look  ing  about  his  papers  as  if  tryi  ng  to  recall  what  Swoboda  was  doing  there.  Swoboda  looked  at  Mr.  Bekkus  with  something  more  than  his  us  ual  com-  posure.  I  t  was  part  of  Swoboda's  m  is-  fortune  that  he  pitied  Mr.  Bekkus;  that,  in  his  resistance  to  Mr.  Bekkus,  he  was  inhibited  by  the  knowledge  t  hat  Mr.  Bekkus  was  pathetic.  No  t  that  this  insight  was,  i  n  itself,  supernatural-  for  others  would  have  q  uickl  y  ar-  rived  at  the  same  conclusion-but  what  made  Swoboda  unusual  was  that  he  persisted  in  the  conviction  even  though  he  ha  d  spent  so  me  years  in  the  power  of  Mr.  Bekkus  and  had  suffered  from  the  sillines  s  and  insensibility  that  constituted  Mr.  Bekkus'  pathos.  By  now,  surely,  the  sense  of  pathos  should  hav  e  given  way  to  indignation  at  being  subordinate  to  such  a  figure.  But  no.  Swoboda  had  never  said  to  anyone,  &quot;I'm  so  rry  f  or  him&quot;  (a  lthough  in  the  Orga  nization  this  was  a  rec  og-  nized  means  of  expressing  contempt  for  an  unsympathetic  superior-'&quot;I'm  sorry  fo  r  him,  I  truly  am;  he's  pathetic  being  uttered  frequently  and  fiercely,  through  cl  enched  t  eeth).  He  had  not  even  said  it  to  himself.  But  in  his  heart  he  knew  that  Bekkus  was  a  foolish  man,  a  small,  ignorant,  and  preten-  tious  man,  and  tha  t  he,  Swobo  da  ,  was  his  superior  in  al  l  but  official  rank.  Swoboda  was  aware  tha  t  Mr.  Bekkus  had  treated  him  ungenerously,  had  often  been  petty  and  unjust.  He  sometimes  dwelt  o  n  this,  almost  hope-  fully,  in  his  mind.  But  it  was  no  use,  He  continued  to  find  Mr  .  Bekkus  p  a-  thetic.  And  therein  lay  Swoboda's  mis-  fortune-one  might  even  have  said,  Swoboda's  tragedy.  &quot;I  suppose,&quot;  Mr.  Bekkus  began,  as  if  Swoboda  had  requested  the  interview,  &quot;you  will  want  to  discuss  certain  fac-  tors  of  your  situation.&quot;  Personal  mat-  ters,  for  Bekkus,  came  in  situations,  elements,  and  factors.  When  Swoboda  said  nothing,  he  went  on.  &quot;As  you  know,  I  myself  have  done  everything  possible  to  expedite  the  processing  of  your  up-grading.&quot;  After  a  pause  he  added,  &quot;That  goes  without  saying.&quot;  Swoboda  evidently  concurred  in  this  last  remark,  for  another  silence  fell.  &quot;'There  are  some  very  slow-thinking  individuals  on  the  Promotions  Board,  Swoboda.  And  then,  when  you  see  who  is  accepted  ...&quot;  He  lightly  dashed  the  promotions  list  with  the  back  of  his  hand,  as  if  Swoboda  would  hardly  wish  to  make  one  of  such  a  disreputable  com-  pany.  &quot;Well,  we  all  know  the  delays  that-ah-militate  against  rapid  ad-  vancement  in  the  junior  grades.  But  I  think  I  can  assure  you,  Swoboda,  that  your  up-grading  will  be  followed  through  in  the  foreseeable  future-that  is,  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Board.&quot;  Mr.  Bekkus  lowered  his  voice.  &quot;This  is  confidential,  of  course.&quot;  Swoboda  merely  said,  &quot;I  see,  sir.&quot;  Bekkus  began  to  be  irritated  with  Swoboda.  &quot;I  trust,  Swoboda,&quot;  he  said  with  some  severity,  &quot;that  you  are  not  too  dissatisfied?&quot;  After  a  moment,  Swoboda  replied,  &quot;Yes,  Mr.  Bekkus.&quot;  Mr.  Bekkus,  who  had  been  scoring  his  blotter  with  a  pencil,  hesitated.  Be-  fore  he  could  make  up  his  mind  whether  the  ambiguity  of  Swoboda's  reply  bore  investigation,  Swoboda  him-  self  elucidated.  &quot;I  mean,  yes,I  am  too  dissatisfied,  Mr.  Bekkus.&quot;  Mr.  Bekkus  covered  his  surprise  with  a  veneer  of  forbearance.  He  even  smiled-a  patient  smile,  an  administra-  tive  smile,  a  smile  that  bespoke  experi-  ence  and  concern.  &quot;It's  natural  that  you  should  feel  disappointed,&quot;  he  began.  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  &quot;But,  as  I've  just  explained  to  you,&quot;  " b"continued  Mr.  Bekkus,  smiling  less,  &quot;if  you  take  the  over-all  view,  you  need  not  feel  dissatisfied  on  a  long-term  basis.&quot;  Swoboda  looked  steadily  at  Mr.  Bek-  kus.  &quot;It  is  with  the  over-all  view  and  on  the  long-term  basis  that  I  feel  dissatis-  fied,&quot;  he  said.  Now  it  was  the  turn  of  Mr.  Bekkus  to  be  silent,  though  he  cast  about  with  one  hand  in  a  circular  gesture,  as  if  attempting  to  turn  the  procedural  wheels  that  had  in  this  moment  so  un-  accountably  ground  to  a  halt.  Swoboda  went  on  calmly,  &quot;And  I  have  applied  for  a  transfer.&quot;  Mr.  Bekkus  stared.  Regaining  the  power  of  speech,  he  said,  &quot;Words  fail  me.&quot;  (A  poor  workman  will  tend  to  blame  his  tools.)  He  emphasized  the  extreme  gravity  of  the  situation  by  put-  ting  the  pencil  down  and  folding  his  hands  before  him  on  the  blotter.  &quot;Swo-  boda,&quot;  he  said  very  quietly,  as  if  Swoboda  were  a  dangerous  lunatic.  &quot;Why  did  you  do  that?&quot;  &quot;Because,&quot;  replied  Swoboda,  &quot;of  the  long-term  basis.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  complain  of?  Your  relationships  here  have  been  good.&quot;  Mr.  Bekkus  took  up  the  pencil  again  and  began  a  series  of  ticks  on  his  blot-  ter.  &quot;Your  working  conditions  are  not  unpleasant.&quot;  Mr.  Bekkus  made  a  sec-  ond  tick.  &quot;You  got  your  within-grade  increment.&quot;  (His  tone  so  clearly  im-  plied  &quot;What  more  do  you  want?&quot;  that  Swoboda  almost  smiled.)  &quot;Your  func-  tions  have  been  mean-  ingful.&quot;  &quot;No,  Mr.  Bekkus.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  some  specific  problem?&quot;  &quot;The  documents.&quot;  &quot;The  documenta-  tion?&quot;  Bekkus  was  baf-  fled,  &quot;The  documenta-  tion?&quot;  &quot;The  SAGG  docu-  ments.  They  have  be-  come  a  burden.  You  may  have  noticed  that.&quot;  Mr.  Bekkus  at-  tempted  a  shrug.  &quot;I  have  been  dimly  aware,&quot;  he  said.  It  was  the  best  description  he  had  ever  given  of  his  general  state  of  mind.  He  took  up  a  more  aggressive  approach.  &quot;This  transfer,  when  did  you  request  it?&quot;  &quot;About  six  weeks  ago.&quot;  &quot;Your  application-  was  it  made  verbally  or  just  orally?&quot;  Bekkus  was  fond  of  this  imaginary  distinction.  &quot;I  requested  an  interview  with  a  Mr.  Yu  in  Lateral  Substitutions.&quot;  &quot;But  did  you  actually  see  him-  visually,  that  is?&quot;  Swoboda  nodded.  &quot;The  matter  was  to  be  confidential  until  a  vacancy  came  up.  However,  I  prefer  to  tell  you  now.&quot;  &quot;I  should  have  been  consulted  at  the  outset.&quot;  Bekkus  was  getting  angry.  &quot;Is  this  the  normal  procedure?&quot;  &quot;Yu  said  so.&quot;  &quot;What?  Ah-yes.  Well,  I  can  tell  you,  Swoboda,  that  I  consider  this  a  breach  of  good  faith  on  your  part.&quot;  He  leaned  forward,  his  eyes  belligerently  bright.  &quot;Yes.  After  our  years  togeth-  er-our  relationship,  that  is-I  would  have  liked  to  see  some  show  of  good  faith.&quot;  He  rightly  implied  that  this  spectacle  would  have  to  be  provided  by  others.  Bekkus  was  a  victim  of  the  an-  cient  delusion  that  loyalty  is  to  be  had  for  nothing.  &quot;I  must  tell  you  that  I  re-  sent  your  behavior  in  having  directly  approached  the  Bureau  of  Substitu-  tions.&quot;  His  voice  rose.  &quot;It  was-it  was-&quot;  He's  actually  going  to  say  it  was  an  outrage,  thought  Swoboda,  amused.  But  here  Swoboda  misjudged  Mr.  Bekkus,  for  such  a  simple,  expressive  word  was  not  at  his  command.  Bekkus  hunted  through  his  vocabulary-no  lengthy  task-for  appropriate  expression.  At  last  it  came.  &quot;It  [REDACTED];  he  cried  passionately,  &quot;a-unilateral  action.&quot;  HEN  Swoboda  moved  to  the  section  headed  by  Mr.  Patricio  Rodriguez-O'Hearn,  he  carried  his  be-  longings  in  an  Out-tray.  It  was  as  radi-  cal  a  change  as  could  exist  within  the  Organization,  the  new  section  being  not  only  in  a  different  department  but  even  on  a  different  elevator  bank.  Mr.  Rodriguez-O'Hearn  was  Chief  of  Mis-  sions  in  DALTO,  the  Department  of  Aid  to  Less  Technically  Oriented.  The  work  of  this  department-to  induce  backward  nations  to  come  forward-  stemmed  from  a  humane  conceit  and  apparently  enjoyed  some  success,  for  since  its  inception  a  number  of  hitherto  reticent  countries  had  become  very  for-  ward  indeed.  The  department  in  gen-  eral,  and  Mr.  Rodriguez  in  particular,  had  a  relatively  sympathetic  reputation  within  the  Organization,  and  this  good  impression  had  been  confirmed  to  Swo-  boda  in  a  preliminary  interview.  Swoboda  was  scheduled  to  arrive  C.O0.D.  (Commencing  Official  Duties)  on  a  Monday  in  the  middle  of  June,  and  on  the  morning  of  this  day  he  appeared  in  the  doorway  of  Mr.  Ro-  driguez'  suite  of  offices.  He  was  re-  ceived  kindly  by  Mr.  Rodriguez'  secre-  tary,  a  Miss  Shamsee,  who  showed  him  into  the  neighboring  room  he  was  to  share  with  two  other  clerks.  The  treasures  of  his  former  desk-a  paper-  back  Roget,  a  leather-  framed  photograph  of  his  wife  and  child,  an  orlon  sweater,  a  bottle  of  aspirin,  and  an  unu-  sually  efficient  stapling  machine-were  quick-  ly  transferred  to  his  new  desk,  a  blotter  was  found  for  him,  and  his  Out-tray  was  rela-  belled  &quot;In.&quot;  One  or  two  minor  tasks  were  set  him,  but  before  he  was  able  to  begin  these  or  take  stock  of  the  square,  grey-walled,  wide-windowed  -room  that  constituted  his  fu-  ture  premises,  his  new  colleagues  arrived.  These  two  men  were  roughly  of  Swo-  boda's  age,  and  al-  though  the  yellow-  haired  one  smiled  and  the  dark-haired  one  was  offhand,  Swoboda  formedno  immediate  impression  of  them,  his  " b"mind  being  so  full  of  new  and  nervous  sensations  this  momentous  morning.  As  is  the  way  of  people  who  are  to  spend  many  months  in  close  company,  the  three  of  them  bided  their  time  at  the  outset,  and  the  first  hours  passed  in  comparative  silence.  Swoboda  gathered  that  his  two  new  associates  had  already  shared  the  office  for  some  time,  and  was  reassured  by  the  fact  that  they  were  evidently  on  good  terms.  Swoboda  having  been  given  various  files  to  study  in  preparation  for  his  new  duties,  it  was  not  until  the  late  morning  of  this  day  that  he  felt  himself  free  to  size  up  his  surroundings.  As  he  raised  his  head  to  do  this,  the  smiling  man  looked  up  from  a  form  on  the  desk  be-  fore  him  and,  with  pencil  poised,  asked  Swoboda's  first  name.  Assuming  that  this  was  required  for  some  official  purpose,  Swoboda  tone-  lessly  responded,  &quot;Stanislas.&quot;  The  blond  man  then  sprang  up  from  his  chair  by  the  window  and  in  a  moment  was  before  Swoboda  with  his  hand  out-  stretched,  saying,  &quot;Mordecai.&quot;  On  the  far  side  of  the  room,  the  dark  man  also  rose  up  from  his  desk,  uttering  &quot;Merv.&quot;  They  all  shook  hands  and  ex-  changed  greetings.  Mordecai  then  took  his  jacket  off  a  peg  near  the  door  and  said,  &quot;How  about  some  lunch?&quot;  Thus  began,  for  Swoboda,  at  the  age  of  thirty-nine,  his  first  taste  of  ordinary  companionship.  'The  relations  of  the  three  men  were  less  demanding  than  would  have  been  the  case  with  women  similarly  thrown  together.  Their  work  was  connected  only  indirectly,  so  that  most  of  their  conversation  was  personal,  and  their  personalities  offered  sufficient  contrast  to  keep  them  interested  in  one  another.  On  Mordecai's  head  the  yellow  hair  stood  out  in  a  spiky  halo  suggesting  a  sun  god  rather  than  a  saint.  The  word  &quot;sunny&quot;  would  have  come  to  mind  in  any  attempt  to  describe  Mordie,  for  everything  about  him-hair,  skin,  and  disposition-seemed  to  have  been  touched  by  light  and  warmth.  The  turmoil  of  history  and  of  his  own  cir-  cumstances  had  swirled  about  and  across  him-for  Mordie  was  a  grand-  child  of  those  Russian  Zionists  who  formed  the  first  kibbutzim  in  [REDACTED]  in  the  early  years  of  this  century-  without  taking  toll  of  his  tranquillity,  and  indeed  seemed  only  to  have  at-  tached  him  the  more  strongly  to  it.  Such  serenity  often  includes  a  measure  of  detachment,  and  Mordie  was  rather  like  a  ship  that  stands  offshore  from  a  beleaguered  city,  ready  to  receive  sur-  vivors,  to  evacuate  the  wounded  and  retreating-to  do,  in  effect,  everything but  participate  in  the  conflict.  This  atti-  tude  of  a  friendly  neutral  did  not  orig-  inate  in  aloofness  or  timorousness  but  from  Mordie's  own  instinct  for  the  way  in  which  he  could  best  be  of  service  to  his  friends.  Moreover,  though  he  would  not  impair  his  usefulness  by  exposing  himself  to  pointless  damage,  it  was  con-  ceivable  that  Mordie  might  yet  one  day  suffer  himself  to  be  annihilated  in  some  single  glorious  intervention.  Mervyn  was  in  all  things  unlike  Mordie.  He  was  an  Australian  of  the  short  and  saturnine  variety.  His  last  name  was  Lomax  and  he  had  been  born  in  Narrabeen,  an  outlying  suburb  of  Sydney,  the  only  son  of  humble  but  contentious  parents.  He  had  shown  interest  in  acquiring  knowledge  even  while  still  at  school-in  preparation  for  some  wider,  more  accomplished  world  that  he  felt  sure  awaited  him.  Since  his  formal  instruction  was  limited  and  he  had,  as  a  youth,  few  like-minded  com-  panions,  his  self-education  had  ranged  wide,  altering  course  almost  from  day  to  day;  many  subjects  had  been  touched  upon,  though  none  exhausted,  and  surprising  gaps  were  left.  (These  arbi-  trary  gaps  subsequently  contributed  to  an  impression  that  Mervyn  had  edu-  cated  himself  on  a  desert  island,  by  means  of  an  Encyclopaedia  Britannica  of  which  one  volume-say,  that  from  LORD  to  MUMPS-happened  to  be  missing.  )  A  schoolmate,  returning  one  day  to  Narrabeen  from  an  envied  trip  to  Eu-  rope,  had  informed  Mervyn  that  the  Parthenon  was  highly  disappointing.  From  the  vehemence  with  which  the  statement  was  made,  Mervyn  instantly  perceived  that  the  disappointment  of  this  youth  lay  with  his  own  response,  and  that  the  blame  had  been  laid  upon  the  Parthenon  as  being,  of  the  two,  the  more  able  to  bear  it.  There  followed  the  realization  that,  if  beauty  were  not  precisely  in  the  eyeof  the  beholder,  it  was  at  least  essential  for  that  eye  to  be  open  and  favorably  disposed.  Mervyn's  eye  became,  in  consequence,  so  fervent-  ly  well-disposed  that  a  certain  measure  of  disappointment  unavoidably  awaited  him  when  at  last  he  made  his  ap-  pearance  in  the  Western  Hemisphere.  Because  of  this  disillusionment,  many  of  the  rewards-rewards  rendered  for  the  most  part  in  aesthetic  currency-with  which  Mervyn's  struggle  for  enlighten,  ment  was  eventually  crowned  were  greeted  by  him  with  defensive  skepti-  cism.  He  continued  to  court  knowl-  edge,  but,  like  a  lover  once  deceived,  now  qualified  his  suit  with  all  manner  of  reservations  and  deprecation  and  even,  " b"from  time  to  time,  with  a  touch  of  that  very  hostility  which  had  so  detracted  from  the  lit-  toral  beauties  of  Nar-  rabeen.  Another  anticlimax  awaited  him  in  the  form  of  the  Organiza-  tion,  which  he  joined  some  years  later.  By  then,  however,  Mer-  vyn  was  getting  ready  to  settle,  and  he  stayed  with  the  Organization,  though  many  were  the  misgivings  he  both  felt  and  voiced.  His  scho-  lastic  attainments  never  having  received  aca-  demic  endorsement,  they  had  no  validity  whatever  in  the  eyes  of  the  Organization,  and  he  was,  at  the  time  of  this  story,  attending  a  third  year  of  evening  classes  which  were  in-  tended  to  culminate  in  a  degree  in  Commer-  cial  Science  and  the  right  to  represent  himself  as  an  edu-  cated  man-a  right  that  his  time-con-  suming  pursuit  of  culture  had  hitherto  obliged  him  to  forego.  Swoboda,  with  his  aptitude  for  such  things,  quickly  saw  that  Mervyn,  hav-  ing  found  no  whole  and  perfect  world,  felt  himself  betrayed  by  the  ubiquitous  human  lapse.  This  was  exactly  the  op-  posite  of  Swoboda,  whose  overdose  of  fatalism  led  him  to  value  above  all  things  the  kinship  of  human  error.  The  discrepancy  led  them  into  innumerable,  inconclusive  exchanges.  &quot;Stan,&quot;  Mervyn  would  say  as  they  sat  gingerly  holding  their  hot  contain-  ers  of  morning  coffee.  &quot;Who  are  your  heroes?&quot;  &quot;Pardon?&quot;  &quot;Great  minds.  Who?&quot;  &quot;Oh-&quot;  Such  renderings  of  account  were  unfamiliar  though  not  unpleasant  to  Swoboda.  &quot;Kant,  perhaps.&quot;  &quot;Kant  hadn't  a  particle  of  poetry  in  his  entire  nature.&quot;  &quot;Newton,  then?&quot;  &quot;Newton  went  wrong  on  Time.&quot;  Swoboda  tried  another  tack.  &quot;Who  are  your  great  minds,  Mervyn?&quot;  &quot;Ah.&quot;  Mervyn  began  to  rub  his  left  hand  absent-mindedly  up  and  down  his  lapel,  caressing  his  heart  like  an  old  wound.  &quot;There  are  no  great  minds,  Stan,&quot;  he  said  sadly.  To  be  great,  in  Mervyn's  opinion,  was  to  be  infallible.  Both  Mordie  and  Merv  were  some-  what  senior  in  grade  to  Swoboda,  and  both  had  encountered  Mr.  Bekkus  dur-  ing  their  careers  at  the  organization.  &quot;I  bet  Bekkus  blighted  your  life,&quot;  Mervyn  remarked  one  day.  Swoboda's  reserve  would  have  pro-  duced  some  noncommittal  reply  had  Mordie  not  seconded  this  view.  &quot;Ah-  Bekkus.  I  too  recall  him  as  a  Life-  blighter.  How  long  were  you  with  him?&quot;  &quot;Nearly  four  years.  Ever  since  Spe-  cific  Cases  Unit  was  merged  with  Over-all  Policy.&quot;  &quot;Christ,  Stan,  why  did  you  stick  it?&quot;  There  was  no  answer  to  this-un-  less  Swoboda  were  to  allude  to  the  nature  of  his  tragedy.  Gradually,  how-  ever,  his  life  with  Mr.  Bekkus  was  un-  {}{folded  to  his  new  friends.  Mordie  and  Mervyn  were  able  to  size  up  the  situa-  tion  in  their  respective  ways  and  to  savor  the  triumph  of  Swoboda's  final  interview  with  Mr.  Bekkus.  &quot;Stanislas,  you  did  right.&quot;  &quot;Good  on  you,  Stan.&quot;  &quot;Not,&quot;  went  on  Swoboda,  &quot;that  we  parted  on  bad  terms.  That,  indeed,  would  have  introduced  a  new  sincerity  into  our  relations.  Far  from  it.  Not  knowing  my  new  telephone  extension,  Mr.  Bekkus  pointed  out  that  I  should  have  to  telephone  him  in  order  for  us  to,  as  he  put  it,  get  together.&quot;  &quot;And  will  you?&quot;  Swoboda  paused.  &quot;On  my  last  day,   Mr.  Bekkus  walked  with  me  to  the  elevator.  He  put  his  hand  on  my  back  and  said,  'Remember,  Swoboda,  it  will  be  your  fault  if  we  don't  get  together  soon.'  &quot;  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  Swoboda  smiled  modestly.  &quot;I  said-  'That's  right?  &quot;  Mordie's  smile  shot  up  to  his  ears.  Merv  slapped  his  hand  on  the  desk.  &quot;Stan  the  Man!  The  Original  Man!&quot;  Mordie  said,  &quot;Stanislas,  I  confess  to  a  pleasant  surprise.&quot;  &quot;You  would  have  expected  me  to  weaken?&quot;  &quot;Not  exactly.  But  I  thought  perhaps  you  are  one  of  those  who  give  in  for  the  good  old  times'  sake.&quot;  &quot;That  expression,  Mordie,&quot;  said  Merv,  's  'for  old  times  sake?  Nobody  ever  said  it  was  good  old  times'  sake.&quot;  worBopa  was  also  kindly  treated  by  Miss  Shamsee  and,  though  he  saw  less  of  her  than  of  Mordie  and  Merv,  not  a  day  passed  without  his  exchang-  ing  some  friendly  words  with  her  or  consulting  her  about  his  work.  Miss  Shamsee  had  been  ten  years  with  the  Organization  and  was  now  a  little  over  thirty.  Her  face  had  the  gloss  of  a  ripe  olive.  Her  black  hair  was  flat,  parted  in  the  middle,  and  drawn  back  in  an  immaculate  knot.  She  invariably  wore  a  sari-sometimes  a  beautifully  bright  one,  sometimes  a  " b"drab  and  flimsy  one-  and  this  graceful  gar-  ment  contributed  a  stateliness,  though  she  was  not  tall.  She  had  a  remarkable  walk-it  was  the  curving,  sinu-  ous  walk  of  Hazlitt's  Sally  Walker-which,  combined  with  the  semicircular  folds  of  her  dress,  gave  her  an  cffect  of  coiling  and  uncoiling  as  she  passed  through  offices  and  down  corridors,  as  she  glided  between  filing  cabinets  or  along  cafe-  teria  queues.  In  addition  to  these  physical  advantages,  Miss  Shamsee  possessed  a  good  mind  and  pleas-  ant  disposition.  She  should,  by  any  fair  standard,  have  been  an  attractive  woman;  yet  it  cannot  be  said  that  she  was.  All  the  ele-  ments  were  there,  but  Miss  Shamsee  was  like  a  resort  town  in  bad  weather;  some  spark,  some  animation,  some  synthesizing  glow  was  missing.  She  had  been  too  long  with  the  Organization.  Girls  like  Miss  Shamsee  pursued,  year  in,  year  out,  their  stenographic  or  clerical  duties  at  the  Organization,  and  were  to  be  seen  each  day  lunching  in  the  cafeteria  with  two  or  three  of  their  kind.  Their  salaries  were  low,  but  every  year  they  earned  a  little  more  money,  and  every  ten  years  or  so  they  went  up  a  notch  in  the  clerical  scale.  No  pro-  fessional  advancement  was  offered  them,  except  over  such  a  length  of  time  as  to  invalidate  it.  Marriages  were  rare,  resignations  even  rarer  (for,  some-  where  about  the  age  of  twenty-seven,  they  started  to  be  concerned  over  the  drawing  of  their  eventual  pension).  If  fortunate,  they  might  be  assigned  to  one  or  two  Organizational  meetings  abroad;  if  desperate,  they  might  apply  for  long-term  service  in  the  less  tech-  nically  oriented  lands.  The  previous  year,  Miss  Shamsee  had  been  sent  to  the  Organization's  branch  office  in  [REDACTED]  to  assist  at  a  summit  conference  of  the  less  technical-  Iv  oriented.  There  she  had  met  and  fall-  en  in  love  with  an  official  of  the  World  Geophysical  Union,  an  international  agency  affiliated  with  the  Organiza-  tion.  The  man  was  married,  and  Miss  Shamsee's  assignment  was  for  six  weeks     only,  but  the  affair  was  poignant  and  sin  cere.  T  oward  the  end  of  the  confer-  ence  they  arranged,  by  intricate  de-  cep  ti  ons,  to  go  away  together  for  a  brief  time.  (  In  this  they  were  aided  by  the  O  rganization  holiday  of  Self-De-  termination  Day  which,  falling  on  a  Monday,  provided  a  lon  g  weekend.)  Other  cities  in  [REDACTED]  being  ren-  dered  perilo  u  s  to  them  by  the  various  headquarter  s  of  ag  encies  of  the  Organi-  zation  (the  Global  Health  Commissio  n  at  Lausanne,  the  Bureau  of  Legal  Standards  a  t  Berne,  and  so  on)  ,  and  the  Riviera  being  out  of  t  he  q  uestio  n  owing  to  a  large  Organization-spon-  sored  Poverty  Congress  then  in  progress  at  C  annes,  they  decided  on  Mila  n  as  the  neig  hboring  city  least  fra  ught  with  in-  ternational  aspirations.  There  they  duly  arrived  by  train  and  stayed  at  a  large,  old-f  ashioned  hotel  near  the  station.  These  days  were  to  be  the  most  in-  sp  iring  of  Miss  Shamsee's  life.  She  and  the  geophysicist  wa  lked  about  the  city  in  a  kind  of  trance,  w  ith  arms  li  nked.  Although  it  was  May,  the  weather  was  cold  and  Miss  Shamsee  wore  a  cardi-  gan  over  her  sari,  and  a  grey  woollen  coat  she  had  bought  on  sale  in  the  Grand  Passage  in  [REDACTED];  ankle  socks  kept  her  feet  warm  in  her  sandals.  Even  thus  modified,  her  rippling  walk attracted  much  favor-  able  attention,.  The  air  was  filled  by  the  spring  seeding  of  the  great  poplar  forests  of  the  Lombardy  Plain,  and  tufts  of  soft  white  down  fell  throughout  the  city  like  a  gentle,  continuous  snow.  This,  and  the  unexpectedness  of  sudden  love,  made  the  situation  seem  fan-  tastic  and  spiritual.  Their  respective  shares  of  the  hotel  bill  having  been  carefully  calculated  by  the  geo-  physicist,  they  returned  to  [REDACTED]  by  separate  trains,  and  met  only  once  more,  for  the  fol-  lowing  day  was  Miss  Shamsee's  last  on  full  per  diem;  she  was  due  to  fly  back  to  Organ-  ization  Headquarters  that  evening.  They  said  goodbye  in  the  Contemplation  Room,  where  they  could  be  sure  of  not  meeting  anyone  they  knew.  'The  geophysicist  asked  her  not  to  write  to  him.  In  her  heart  she  knew  this  to  be  abject,  but  she  gave  him  a  look  of  understanding  so  as  not  to  spoil  things.  They  parted  without  touching.  Thus  ended  Miss  Shamsee's  meeting  at  the  summit.  Back  at  Headquarters,  she  did  not  repine.  She  was  deeply  moved,  but  tri-  umphant.  'This  at  least  had  happened  to  her.  Though  she  said  nothing,  it  gradually  became  known  that  some-  thing  of  the  kind  had  occurred,  and  it  gave  her  prestige  among  her  sad  com-  panions.  Once  in  a  while,  when  Mr.  Rodriguez-O'Hearn  dictated  a  letter  to  the  World  Geophysical  Union,  she  could  allow  herself  to  think  that  her  lower-case  initials  in  the  corner  of  the  page  might  act  as  a  message  to  her  lover-that  somehow,  eventually,  they  might  come  to  his  attention  as  he  thumbed  through  the  relevant  file.  And  one  day  at  the  beginning  of  winter,  when  for  the  first  time  she  hung  up  her  grey  coat  in  the  office,  she  found  a  scrap  of  white  poplar-down  in  the  sleeve.  She  pressed  it  that  day  in  the  Organization  Yearbook.  woropA  discovered,  through  his  companions,  the  varying  degrees  of  esteem  in  which  the  rest  of  the  DALTO  staff  were  held-who  was  to  be  re-  " b"lied  upon,  who  to  be  supported,  who  avoided.  H  e  also  learned  of  the  exist-  ence  of  one  or  two  natural  ene  mies.  &quot;Take  a  dekko  at  this,&quot;  Mervyn  would  say,  holding  up  a  sheaf  of  mem-  orand  a,  each  marked  with  a  red  HASTE  stick  er.  &quot;Blo  ody  Battle  of  Hastings.&quot;  &quot;Sadie  Graine,  I  suppose?&quot;  inquired  Mordie.  Miss  Sadie  Graine  was  the  secretary  of  DALTO's  Chief  Co-ordina-  tor,  Mr.  Achilles  Pylos.  Swoboda,  who  as  yet  knew  the  lady  only  by  sight,  dwelt  on  her  name.  &quot;S  adi  e.  I  didn't  think  women  were  called  Sadie  anymore.&quot;  &quot;Short  for  Sadist&quot;  M  ervy  n  ex  -  plained,  o  ut  the  papers.  &quot;Affec-  tionate  diminutive.&quot;  (This  is  not  the  moment  to  relat  e  in  full  the  story  of  Miss  Sadie  Graine.  In  the  history  of  the  Organization,  as  in  the  annals  of  all  organizations,  that  n  ar-  rative  has  a  place-for  Miss  Graine's  is  a  figure  known  in  all  large  i  nstitutio  ns,  and  even  in  some  sma  ller  ones.  Her  presence  in  any  substantial  office  is  as  inevitable  as  that  of  filing  cabinets  and  paper  clips;  no  departmental  scene  is  complete  without  her  .  Her  own  posi-  tion  is  subordinate,  yet  she  commands,  fearfully,  inexplicably,  the  ear  of  au-  thori  ty.  She  accepts  no  criticism,  she  po  ssess  es  no  humor;  her  tyranny  is  self-righteous,  her  ven  geance  inexora-  ble  .  The  sole-an  d  un-  witting-contribution  made  by  her  presence  is  to  join  together  those  who  would  otherwise  find  no  co  mmon  grou  nd.  For  concern-  ing  Miss  Graine  t  here  can  be  no  dive  rgenc  e  of  opinion.  Before  her,  all  stand  u  nited  in  adver-  sity.  The  story  o  f  Miss  Sadie  G  raine  may  yet  be  told.)  I  n  the  new  com  -  radeship  enjoyed  by  S  woboda,  there  was  one  ele  ment  mo  re  re-  markable,  more  sym-  pathetic  than  all  the  others.  And  that  was  the  bond  that  de  vel-  ope  d  between  Swobod  a  and  Mr  .  Rodriguez-  O'Hearn.  Mr.  Rodriguez  O'Hearn,  short,  bald,  and  blue-eyed,  was,  at  the  age  of  fifty-three,  one  of  the  most  senior  officials  in  DALTO.  He  was  not  the  Chief  Co-  ordinator  of  the  Department-that  of-  fice  being  filled  by  the  said  Mr.  Py-  los-and  his  secondary  position  was  share  d  with  two  or  three  others.  Still,  he  was  a  perso  n  of  authority  by  Organ-  ization  standards-and  more  ampl  e  standards  might  only  have  augmented  his  prestige.  The  accidents  of  politics  and  geog-  raphy  that  sometimes  united  to  provide  the  Organization  with  its  higher  offi-  cials  had  seldom  combined  so  happi  l  y  as  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Patricio  Rodri-  g  uez-O  Hearn.  His,  as  Swoboda  soon  r  ealized  ,  was  a  mind  of  uncommon  sco  pe  and  flexibility.  He  was  humorous,  compassionate,  and  incorruptible-  thes  e  invaluable  qualities  be  ing  here  list-  ed  in  order  of  importance.  His  se  nsibili-  ties  revealed  themselves,  as  sen  sibilities  do,  continually;  and  not  least  in  a  man-  ner  ism  of  fingering  a  piece  of  music  from  t  ime  to  tim  e  on  an  imagi  na  ry  piano.  And-to  a  degree  unusual  in  the  Organization-he  was  a  cultivated  man.  There  was,  one  felt,  almost  noth  -  ing  he  might  n  ot  have  done.  Yet  Mr.  Rodriguez-O'Hearn  had  co  lleagues  of  less  ability  who  had  gone  further;  of  less  energy  who  ha  d  done  more.  I  n  all  Swoboda's  years  with  the  Or-  ganization,  he  had  not  encountered  any  officia  l  of  this  calibre.  His  natural  kinship  with  Rodriguez-O'Hearn  went  be-  yond  that  which  he  enjoyed  with  Mervyn,  Mordie,  and  Miss  Shamsee.  Admiring  as  Swoboda  was  of  Rodri-  gue?&quot;  capacities,  he  was  also  drawn  to  him  by  the  inconsistencies  he  began  to  detect  under  Rodriguez  thoughtful  ex-  terior.  Confronted,  for  example,  with  some  Daltonian  dilemma,  Rodriguez  could  instantly  see  what  should  be  done.  He  would  perhaps  ask  Swoboda  to  prepare  such-and-such  a  draft  memorandum  to  that  effect.  Swoboda  would  do  so,  but  by  the  time  the  draft  had  reached  the  In-tray,  a  dozen  fanciful  doubts  had  been  raised  in  Rodriguez'  mind  and  a  dozen  spectres  of  possible  misfire  sat  about  Rodriguez  at  his  desk.  The  strength  of  the  doubts  seemed  to  be  in  direct  ratio  to  the  significance  of  the  issue  and  the  clarity  of  the  proposed  solution.  &quot;'Thinking  it  over,  Swoboda,&quot;  Rodriguez  would  say,  &quot;I  feel  we  should  add  .  ..&quot;  Swoboda  began  to  dread  these  final  paragraphs,  these  postscripts  or  parenthetical  observations  that  so  often  merely  served  to  draw  attention  to  po-  tential  errors  that  would  never  other-  wise  have  been  committed.  &quot;Perhaps  it  should  be  pointed  out&quot;  or  &quot;I  need  hardly  warn  the  members  of  the  com-  mittee&quot;  or,  worst  of  all,  &quot;In  order  to  avoid  confusion&quot;  frequently  preceded  a  knock-out  blow  to  the  argument  so  lu-  cidly  adduced  in  the  body  of  the  letter.  Caution,  concluded  Swoboda,  is  a  very  dan-  gerous  thing.  There  were,  in  addi-  tion,  issues  that  Ro-  driguez  would  perpetu-  ally  and  ignominious-  ly  evade  rather  than  oppose-a  multiplicity  of  useless  regulations,  an  inundation  of  docu-  ments  whose  pages  were  more  common-  ly  committed  to  the  wastepaper  basket  than  to  memory,  the  in-  fringements  of  trou-  blesome  subordinates,  the  harassments  of  Miss  Sadie  Graine.  (It  would  not  have  been  accurate  to  say  that  Mr.  Rodriguez-  O'Hearn  was  afraid  of  Miss  Sadie  Graine,  but  it  would  have  been  so  nearly  accurate  that  it  did  not  quite  bear  thinking  about.)  Then,  too,  Rodri-  guez  had  a  peculiarity  " b"of  gratifyin  g-almost  of  acting  out-  anoth  er  's  misunderstanding  of  him.  With  those  who  thought  him  un  yield  -  i  ng,  he  would  be  at  his  most  taciturn;  with  those  who  thought  him  irresolute,  at  his  most  discursive  .  Swoboda  saw  these  things  and,  feeling  h  e  understood  the  matter,  regretted  the  m.  Yet  it  can-  not  be  said  that  the  y  lowered  Rodri-  gu  ez-O'  Hearn  in  Swoboda's  regard.  They  were  authentic  human  aberra-  tions,  and  Swoboda's  tolerance  of  them  only  increased  the  friendship  that,  for  all  its  restraint,  now  grew  up  bet  ween  him  and  his  new  chief.  Swoboda  had  come  to  Rodriguez-  O'Hearn  as  a  virtually  unknown  quan-  tity.  It  is  true  that  his  personal  file  ha  d  been  sent  to  Rodriguez  in  advance,  and  that  th  ese  dossiers  were  compiled  in  conformity  with  the  latest  administra-  tive  tech  niques.  A  form  in  the  file  had  accordingly  n  otifie  d  Mr.  R  odriguez  that  Swoboda  was  punctual  and  in  good  h  ealth  ,  that  he  upheld  the  aims  of  the  Organization,  and  that  his  output  was  high.  T  he  form  was  composed  as  a  questionnair  e  ,  and  against  each  ques  -  t  ion  a  series  of  boxes  invited  the  ap-  propriate  tick-  su  ch  methods  as  these  havi  n  g  been  painstakingly  devised  in  or-  der  to  avoid  anything  resembling  a  per-  sonal  opinion.  Since,  in  this  modern  world  of  superlatives,  a  tick  in  anything  less  than  the  topm  ost  box  for  each  item  would  have  been  highly  damaging  to  a  staff  member,  Rod  riguez-O'H  ear  n  also  learned-and  expected  to  learn-  from  the  file  that  Swoboda  was  of  i  n-  effable  good  humor,  that  his  initiative  was  unremitting,  his  imagination  inex-  haustible,  and  his  judgment  invariably  s  ound.  Had  the  file  contained  a  more  rea-  sonabl  e  estimat  e  of  Swoboda's  capabili-  ties,  or  s  ugges  ted  the  slightest  singular  i  ty,  the  i  mplicatio  n  would  have  bee  n  s  uch  that  neither  Rodriguez-O'Hearn  nor  any  other  Organization  official  would  have  felt  justified  in  ac  cepti  ng  him.  It  was  therefore  without  prompting  of  any  k  ind  that  Ro  driguez  discovered  Swoboda's  true  nature.  Rodriguez  was  a  man  of  insight,  and  the  significant  outlines  of  Swob  oda  's  p  ast  gr  adually  be-  c  ame  a  s  app  arent  to  him  as  if  he  had  been  apprised  of  them  in  detail.  He  valued  Swobo  da's  ability;  he  respecte  d  Swoboda's  discretion;  he  even  came  ,  little  by  little,  to  apprehend  Swoboda's  tragedy.  ND  so  it  came  about  that  Swoboda  thrived.  With  all  his  new  col-  leagues  he  worked  in  the  utmost  good  will.  There  was  much  to  do,  but  no  injustice  corresponding  to  the  SAGG  documents  darkened  Swoboda's  days  or  l  e  n  g  t  h  e  n  e  d  h  i  s  n  i  g  h  t  s  .  H  i  s  t  e  n  d  e  n  c  i  e  s  ,  t  h  o  u  g  h  o  r  d  e  r  l  y  ,  w  e  r  e  i  n  g  e  n  i  o  u  s  ,  a  n  d  h  e  d  e  v  e  l  o  p  e  d  a  n  u  n  c  o  m  p  l  i  c  a  t  e  d  s  y  s  t  e  m  o  f  s  h  a  d  i  n  g  i  n  t  h  e  p  r  o  g  r  e  s  s  o  f  D  A  L  T  O  o  p  -  e  r  a  t  i  o  n  s  o  n  t  h  e  g  r  a  p  h  s  e  n  t  r  u  s  t  e  d  t  o  h  i  s  c  a  r  e  (  s  o  m  a  n  y  e  x  p  e  r  t  s  s  e  n  t  t  o  i  n  s  t  r  u  c  t  n  e  e  d  y  n  a  t  i  o  n  s  ,  s  o  m  a  n  y  g  r  a  n  t  s  a  w  a  r  d  e  d  t  o  t  h  e  l  e  s  s  t  e  c  h  n  i  c  a  l  f  o  r  o  r  i  e  n  t  a  t  i  o  n  a  b  r  o  a  d  -  t  h  e  i  r  s  h  a  d  o  w  ,  o  n  S  w  o  b  o  d  a  '  s  c  h  a  r  t  s  ,  n  e  v  e  r  g  r  e  w  l  e  s  s  )  .  T  o  g  e  t  h  e  r  w  i  t  h  M  e  r  v  y  n  a  n  d  M  o  r  d  i  e  ,  h  e  d  r  a  f  t  e  d  l  e  t  t  e  r  s  ,  a  d  d  e  d  u  p  c  o  l  u  m  n  s  ,  a  n  d  f  i  l  e  d  c  a  r  d  s  .  T  h  e  r  e  w  a  s  n  o  t  h  i  n  g  n  o  v  e  l  o  r      captivating  in  this,  other  than  the  sense  of  being  appreciated.  All  the  same,  Swoboda  felt  his  life  was  moving  for-  ward  again  and,  in  his  modest  way,  he  was  hopeful  about  the  future.  Toward  the  end  of  the  year,  when  Swoboda  had  been  some  months  with  DALTO,  the  question  of  his  promotion  was  once  more  raised  in  his  mind.  The  Promotions  and  Probations  Board  was  soon  due  to  hand  down  its  six-monthly  decisions.  He  mentioned  this  to  Merv  and  Mordie.  &quot;You'll  be  all  right,&quot;  Mervyn  as-  sured  him,  &quot;He  likes  you.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cWho?  7)  &quot;Old  Rodrigo.  Can't  think  why,  but  he  does.&quot;  &quot;What  has  he  to  do  with  it?&quot;  &quot;He'll  have  to  endorse  you.  That's  " b"what  happens  when  you  move  to  an-  other  department.  You  have  to  get  put  up  ag  ain  for  promotion  by  your  new  chief.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  forma  l  ity,&quot;  Mordie  said.  &quot;They'll  bring  it  to  his  att  ention.  Do  n't  worry.&quot;  A  week  or  two  later,  Miss  Shamsee  whispered  t  o  Swoboda  that  Rodriguez  had  dictated  to  her  the  recommenda-  tio  n  for  promotion.  Smiling,  she  showed  Swoboda  a  pa  ge  of  cryptograms.  &quot;One  of  the  best  recommendations  he's  ever  g  iven,  &quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  marvellous.&quot;  Swobod  a  thanked  her,  warmly  but  calmly,  and  walked  away.  N  everthe-  less,  in  that  moment,  he  was  as  cl  ose  as  he  had  ever  been  to  exultation.  He  went  down  to  the  cafeteria  and  had  a  cup  of  coffee.  There,  leaning  on  the  Formica  t  able  top,  absently  stirring  the  sugar  round  in  his  thick  cup  a  nd  crumbling  his  D  anish,  Swoboda  re-  flected  on  the  goodness  and  ultimate  meaning  of  thi  ng  s.  How  right  he  had  been  t  o  stand  up  t  o  Mr  .  Bek  kus.  There  was  much  in  life  that  one  must  let  pass,  much  that  did  not  merit  the  taking  of  positions  or  the  agitating  of  one's  breast;  much,  i  n  fact,  that  it  wo  uld  be  de-  meaning  to  take  issue  with.  On  the  other  hand,  certain  matters  were  not  to  be  ignored  unless  one  were  to  cast  oneself  away  entirely,  and  here  Swo-  boda  had  vindicated  himself.  He  had  repudiated  Mr.  Bekkus'  treatment  of  him;  he  had  demanded  a  more  suitable  standing  in  the  world,  and  he  had  got  it.  He  had,  through  his  own  forti-  tude,  come  forth  into  a  new  life  of  comradeship  an  d  esteem.  He  would  receive  a  little  more  money,  he  would  stand  a  little  higher  i  n  the  lowly  lists  of  t  he  Subsidiary  Category.  Swoboda  was  content.  (It  may  be  felt  that  he  was  easily  content,  but  he  is  not  the  less  to  be  envied  for  that  reason.)  In  a  sense,  too-or  so  it  seemed  to  him-t  he  Organization  itself  stood  to  profit  f  rom  this  development.  Having  de  dicat  ed  itself  to  the  rights  of  man,  the  Organization  was,  in  some  subtly  heartening  manner,  only  as  good  as  the  way  it  treated  Swoboda.  One  could  not  completely  believe  in  any  enterprise  that  r  equir  e  d  one's  own  d  iminution.  Thus  Swob  oda,  as  he  lingered  over  his  coffee  in  the  cafeter  i  a.  Not  since  the  departure  from  the  cherry  factory  had  his  heart  bee  n  so  light.  A  I  HE  days  passed  quickly  at  the  end  of  the  year.  There  was  great  activity  in  DALTO  at  that  time.  The  deadline  for  submission  of  the  DALTO  annual  report  was  drawing  near,  and  Swoboda,  with  his  charts,  was  deeply  involved.  As  this  vast  report  required  some  months  in  the  preparation,  it  was  always  begun  in  the  middle  of  the  year  it  purported  to  cover;  necessarily  in-  corporating  an  element  of  conjecture,  it  was  an  earnest  effort  notwithstand-  ing.  It  was  Swoboda's  first  experience  of  the  reporting  strategy,  but  he  was  quick     to  grasp  its  tactics  of  defense:  a  pro-  gramme  was  &quot;particularly&quot;  efficient;  a  situation  had  been  &quot;carefully&quot;  exam-  ined;  a  success  was  &quot;outstandingly&quot;  successful-these  adverbial  badges  of  insecurity  being  designed  to  take  the  opponent  by  surprise.  Swoboda's  nor-  mal  work  was  disrupted  by  the  report,  but  this  was  a  temporary  inconvenience  and  he  did  not  mind.  Cheerfully  he  pieced  together  scissored  paragraphs.  (&quot;Two  experts  in  metallurgy  served  in  [REDACTED]  during  the  year  under  review.  ...&quot;  &quot;Four  awards  were  made  for  the  study  of  sanitary  engineering  abroad.  ...&quot;)  Swoboda  was  surprised  to  see  how  the  very  items  that  had  been  the  subject  of  so  much  anxiety  and  dis-  pute  throughout  the  year  appeared,  when  reported,  to  be  part  of  some  grand  and  faultless  design  to  which  no  disharmony  could  ever  have  con-  ceivably  attached.  He  tried  to  reflect  that  this  was  perhaps,  in  some  final  and  overwhelming  sense,  no  more  than  the  truth.  In  the  days  before  Christmas,  the  long  corridors  of  the  Organization  were  gay  with  plastic  wreaths,  and  in  the  main  lobby  the  Organization  Sing-  ers  chanted  carols  interspersed  with  the  Founding  Constitution  set  to  music.  It  was  on  the  afternoon  of  the  DALTO  Christmas  party  that  Mr.  Rodriguez-  O'Hearn  asked  Swoboda  to  come  into  his  office.  Swoboda  was,  of  course,  in  and  out  of  Rodriguez'  office  all  through  the  working  day;  but  there  is  an  atmos-  " b"phere,  a  closing  of  doors,  a  lowering  of  voices,  a  pushing  away  of  papers,  that  unmistakably  announces  an  interview  of  more  personal  character.  (I  am  sorry  to  say  that,  although  such  interviews  do  occasionally  bring  good  tidings,  their  general  climate  is  one  of  foreboding.)  Swoboda  assumed  of  course,  and  right-  ly,  that  the  discussion  would  have  to  do  with  the  matter  of  his  promotion,  which  he  had  been  expecting  Rodri-  guez  to  mention.  It  was  known  that  the  Board  would  soon  meet-perhaps  it  had  even  met  already,  and  Rodriguez  was  now  authorized  to  give  Swoboda  the  good  news.  &quot;Swoboda,  sit  down,&quot;  said  Mr.  Ro-  driguez-O'Hearn.  He  performed  a  scale  or  two  with  the  fingers  of  his  right  hand,  and  said  nothing  more  for  some  moments.  Swoboda  was  oddly  remind-  ed  of  Mr.  Bekkus.  But  he  put  this  out  of  his  mind  with  a  dismissing  mental  smile.  -  &quot;Swoboda,&quot;  said  Mr.  Rodriguez  again,  &quot;I'm  sure  you  know  that  I  have  thehighest  opinion  of  your  work.&quot;  He  was  looking  not  at  Swoboda  but  at  his  own  right  hand,  which  was  now  ex-  ecuting  more  complicated  fingering.  &quot;And,  I  may  say,  of  your  character.&quot;  He  paused,  and  then  interpolated,     &quot;*The  two  cannot,  in  any  case,  be  sepa-  rated.&quot;  Swoboda  did  not  speak.  He  observed  Rodriguez  carefully.  He  was  interested  in  human  nature,  and  his  intuition  told  him  that  he  was  getting  an  important  demonstration  of  it.  &quot;You  must  be  aware,&quot;  Rodriguez  went  on,  now  looking  briefly  at  Swobo-  da  out  of  his  fine  blue  eyes,  &quot;that  the  question  of  your  promotion  was  due  to  come  before  the  present  meeting  of  the  Board.  And  that  my  endorsement  was  required.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  &quot;Quite  so.  Well,  Swoboda  ...&quot;  Here  Rodriguez  stopped.  Swoboda,  watching  him,  wondered  what  word  should  be  used  to  describe  his  expres-  sion.  He  decided  that  the  most  fitting  word  was  &quot;desperate.&quot;  Rodriguez  then  continued,  &quot;I  did  in  fact  write  the  rec-  ommendation  on  your  case.  And  I  may  say  that  it  was  unequivocal.  It  was,  in-  deed,  wholehearted.  However  .  ..&quot;  &quot;However?&quot;  inquired  Swoboda  gently,  since  silence  seemed  likely  to  descend.  &quot;However,  some  questions  were  sub-  sequently  raised.  I  mean,  after  I  had  drafted  the  report  on  you.  It  was  felt  that,  since  you  had  joined  this  department  so  recently,  others  here  might  feel-ah-supplanted  in  the  matter  of  your  promotion.  I  do  not  say  that  I  agree  with  this  view,  but  it  was  pre-  sented  to  me  as  a  possible  source  of  grievance.  .  ..  Miss-er-Graine  did  in  fact  raise  the  matter  with  Mr.  Pylos,  or  so  I  understand,  and  he  felt...  Then,  too,  an  official  of  Personnel-  Mr.  Bekkus,  in  whose  office  you  for-  merly  worked-seems  to  have  said  ..  .&quot;  Rodriguez-O'Hearn's  voice  trailed  away.  He  summoned  it  back  and  add-  ed  more  firmly,  even  defiantly,  &quot;And  so,  taking  all  these  things  into  account,  1  did  not  send  my  recommendation.&quot;  &quot;I  see,  sir.&quot;  &quot;Swoboda,&quot;  said  Mr.  Rodriguez-  O'Hearn-and  Swoboda  now  con-  cluded  that  the  word  for  his  expression  was  &quot;hopeless&quot;-'&quot;this  doesn't  mean  anything  more  than  postponement.  You  realize  that,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;I  see,  [REDACTED];  Swoboda  repeated.  He  was  still  looking  at  Rodriguez-  O'Hearn-at  his  expression,  his  rapid-  ly  heaving  chest,  his  intricately  moving  fingers.  A  sensation  was  welling  up  within  Swoboda  as  he  looked,  and  this  sensation,  though  he  struggled  against  it,  held  him  fast  and  threatened  to  overcome  him.  &quot;In  fact,  I  think  I  can  safely  say  that  at  the  next  meeting  of  the  Board-that  is,  the  one  after  the  present  one-the  one  that  meets  in  June-this  is  con-  fidential,  of  course  .  ..&quot;  Mr.  Rodriguez  voice  halted,  wan-  dered  on.  Swoboda  sat  still.  Soon  he  would  rise  and  go.  Was  there  not  the  Christmas  party  to  attend,  and  had  he  not  promised  Abdul  Karim  of  Archives  to  help  him  serve  the  drinks?  There  was  nothing  to  stay  for  here,  nothing  more  to  be  said,  even  though  Mr.  Ro-  driguez  was  still  talking,  for  Swoboda  had  now  surrendered  to  the  familiar  feelings  that  had  assailed  him  in  the  past  few  moments.  He  had  fought  against  them,  but  to  no  avail.  Try  as  he  would,  Swoboda  could  not  change;  he  couldnot  help  himself.  'There  was  nothing  to  be  done  about  it.  The  fact  was  that  he  pitied  Mr.  Patricio  Rodri-  guez-O'Hearn.  He  pitied  him  with  all  his  heart.  It  was  nothing  short  of  tragic. "