 b"WASHINGTON-The  Internal  Revenue  Service  hopes  it  has  come  up  with  a  &quot;tax-  paying  made  easier&quot;  version  of  that  old  ogre-Form  1040.  ...  Instead  of  old  1040's  stern  commands  such  as  &quot;check  only  one,&quot;  1040  Q  has  polite,  almost  friendly  ques-  tions.  Sample:  &quot;Do  you  wish  this  to  be  ajoint  return?&quot;.  ..  Cohen  called  the  Q  form  a  &quot;dramatic  departure.&quot;  It's  certainly  long  enough  for  a  drama-seven  pages  instead  of  the  two  pages  of  regular  1040.  &quot;It  is  a  bit  longer,&quot;  one  IRS  official  conceded,  &quot;but  it  sort  of  flows-don't  you  think?&quot;  Angeles  Times.  1040uw  Mr.  Robert  Shrubsole  1214  Impedimenta  Dr.  West  Egg,  Long  Island  Drar  Bos:  O  you  mind  if  I  call  you  &quot;Bob&quot;?  D  &quot;Taxpayer&quot;  sounds  so  terribly  cold.  Here's  your  1968  form.  Do  hope  you  enjoy  it.  The  New  York  Review  of  Books  called  it  &quot;compel-  ling,&quot;  and  Time  said,  &quot;You  won't  be  able  to  put  it  down.&quot;  Arthur  Schlesing-  er,  Jr.,  writing  in  Partisan  Review,  said,  &quot;The  tax  form  has  achieved  an  en-  tirely  new  idiom  ...as  important  to  revenue  collection  as  'Madame  Bovary  was  to  the  novel.&quot;  There  are  a  lot  of  longueurs  in  places,  but  over  allI  think  you'll  like  the  style-especially  some  of  those  glorious  Johnsonian  phrases  (Samuel,  of  course)  we  have  tried  to  revive.  Next  year,  we  plan  to  do  the  Tax  Computation  section  in  automatic  writing,  or  what  you  perhaps  know  as  &quot;stream  of  consciousness.&quot;  We  here  at  IRS  feel  this  latter  mode  d  expression  may  add  a  whole  new  dimension  to  tax  forms.  Well,  have  a  go  and  let  us  know  how  you  like  it.  NamE  anp  ApprEss:  In  the  box  above  we'd  very  much  ap-  preciate  it  if  you'd  set  down  your  first,  or  given,  or  Christian,  name,  and  then  your  middle  initial,  and  then  to  the  right  of  it  your  last  name,  which,  in-  cidentally,  I  always  find  interesting  be-  cause,  you  see,  if  you  carry  it  back  to  its  original  meaning  it  often  tells  what  your  ancestors  did.  Baxters,  for  exam-  ple,  were  bakers,  Smiths  were  smithies,  Crawfords  crofters,  etc.  The  Romans,  by  the  bye,  generally  employed  a  tri-  nomial  nomenclature,  consistingof  a  forename  (preexomen),  a  clan  or  tribal  name  and  then  the  family  name  (cognomen).  An  addi-  tional  name  (\xc2\xab@gnomen)  was  sometimes  tacked  on  as  a  nickname  or  to  celebrate  some  exploit;  for  example,  Publius  Cor-  nelius  Scipio  Africanus  won  his  last  han-  dlefor  his  invasion  of  Africa,  and  Cori-  olanus  took  his  after  conquering  the  Volscian  city  of  Corioli.  Well,  perhaps  [REDACTED]  Individual  &amp;  Long-Winded  Income  Tax  Return  1968  we'd  better  get  on  with  it.  The  old  Social  Security  number  and  your  job  title  or  the  business  you  work  in  go  in  the  right-hand  box.  Fiuimc  Sratus:  []  Are  you  single?  If  so,  put  a  little  tick  in  the  box.  If  you  did  have  to  put  down  a  tick,  you  might  think  seriously  about  getting  married.  Aside  from  the  fact  that  marriage  raises  the  average  man's  income  (as  studies  show),  our  society  is  pretty  much  based  on  the  family  unit.  Loners  are  looked  upon  with  suspicion,  and,  in  some  areas,  with  downright  hostility.  Oh,  yes,  I  know  that  Shakespeare  wrote  of  &quot;single  blessedness,&quot;  but  you  will  notice  that  he  himself  was  married.  J]  If,  as  I  hope,  you  are  a  happi-  ly,  middle-classedly  married  &quot;up-tight  square&quot;  (as  the  kids  call  us)  and  you  are  filing  a  joint  return,  put  a  tick  here.  You  can  file  a  joint  return  even  if  only  one  of  you  had  an  income.  If  the  latter  is  true,  I  hope  that  that  one  is  you.  Call  me  old-fashioned  if  you  will,  but  I  de-  plore  the  trend  toward  feminine  egali-  tarianism,  and  even  domination,  in  our  society,  and  I  wonder  if  you,  too,  have  noticed  how  many  comic  strips  and  TV  shows  depict  the  pater  familias  in  the  role  of  a  bumbling  mouse?  I  may  have  more  to  say  about  this  subject  on  next  year's  form.  []  If  you  are  married  but  filing  separately,  please  check  here.  If  your  wife  is  working  and  filing  separately,  write  her  first  name  and  Social  Security  number  below.  Don't  be  embarrassed  if  your  wife  has  had  to  work  in  a  pinch.  What  I  said  above  referred  to  hus-  bands  whose  wives  work  all  the  time.  Actually,  in  65%  of  American  families  the  wife  has  had  to  take  a  job  at  some  time  or  other.  ExeEmrPrions:  Regular  65  or  over  Blind  Yourself  O  O  CO  Wife  C  nO  Children/dependents  ...........  Would  you  check  an  exemption  here  for  yourself  and  your  wife,  if  you  are married?  Please  don't  check  &quot;65  or  over,&quot;  because  we  happen  to  know  you're  a  member  of  the  Command  Generation.  That  sort  of  thing-even  done  facetiously-can  bring  a  couple  of  T-men  down  on  you  in  a  flash.  Now,  as  far  as  the  third  line  is  concerned,  we  could  go  on  for  hours  defining  a  de-  pendent,  but  in  your  heart  you  know  what  a  dependent  is  and  I  know  what  a  dependent  is.  So,  assuming  you  don't  have  any  mad  cousins  locked  in  the  East  Wing,  or  any  ne'er-do-well  brothers  down  to  visit  you  from  South  Braintree,  just  put  down  the  first  names  of  the  darling  little  hostages  to  fortune  you  have  accumulated  over  the  years.  Income:  Well,  this  is  where  the  crunch  comes.  Below,  on  line  5,  put  your  wages,  sal-  aries,  and  tips,  and  below  that,  on  line  6,  your  other  income,  and  then  total  them  on  line  7.  Now,  I  just  don't  know  why  there  are  so  many  problems  in  this  sec-  tion.  We  all  know  what  income  is.  If's  what  you  raked  in  during  the  year.  And  yet  there  seems  to  be  hell's  own  lot  of  confusion  here.  Plaintive  cries  of  &quot;Oh,  I  didn't  know  that  was  income!&quot;  ring  through  our  offices  daily,  and  one  must  assume  the  speakers  are  simply  naive,  because  American  taxpayers  are  the  most  honest  in  the  world.  Nor  do  they  dispute  our  pressing  need  for  money.  After  all,  is  70  billion  dollars  too  much  to  guard  our  way  of  life  against  a  bunch  of  people  who  wear  pajamas  in  public  in  the  middle  of  the  day  and  who  claim  that  their  last  names  are  really  their  first?  Well,  sorry  if  I  blew  my  cool,  but  it  builds  up  and  I  have  to  let  go  some-  times.  Tax  Compurarion:  Now,  &quot;Bob,&quot;  if  you  don't  itemize  your  deductions,  and  your  income  above  (or  the  income  you  cleimed  you  made)  is  less  than  $5,000,  then  you  use  the  tax  tables,  which  are  in  the  instructions  there  somewhere-I'm  sure  you  can  find  them.  If  either  of  the  above  is  true,  my  condolences,  because,  in  the  first  case,  deductions  are  the  name  of  the  game,  and,  in  the  second,  five  thousand  rutabagas  isn't  even  a  subsistence  in-  come  these  days.  It  seems  a  darn  shame  that  the  very  people  who  make  the  least  seem  to  have  the  least  deductions  and  loopholes,  but  our  job  here  is  to  collect  the  taxes,  not  cure  the  ills  of  an  inequi-  table  society.  If  you  itemized  deductions,  kindly  enter  your  total  on  the  line  below.  This,  of  course,  is  where  all  the  gravy  comes  from  (andmost  of  the  bread,  for  that  matter).  The  bestrule  here  is  to  " b"exaggerate,  but  within  reason.  In  other  words,  even  if  you're  telling  the  truth,  ifit  looks  too  strong,  knock  it  down.  Conversely,  even  if  you're  lying,  ifit  looks  believable,  really  wail  here.  Now  would  you  subtract  line  lla  from  line  9?  Line  9  is  way  tohell  up  there,so  you'd  better  not  do  this  right  on  the  form.  Why  notput  it  on  a  piece  of  scratch  paper?  I  hope  you  don't  have  the  trouble  I  do  with  re-  membering  to  borrow  when  the  subtra-  hend  exceeds  the  minuend.  Or  is  it  the  minuend  exceeds  the  subtrahend?  Oh,  well.  ...  Now  multiply  the  total  number  of  exemptions  above  by  $600.  Actually,  you  might  want  to  do  it  the  other  way  and  multiply  $600  by  the  total  number  of  exemptions;  that  way  you  get  the  big  number  on  top.  It  always  seems  to  me  a  little  awkward  when  the  longer  number  is  on  the  bottom.  Now  you  could  subtract  line  11\xc2\xa2  from  line  11b.  The  answer,  of  course,  is  what  it's  all  about.  This  is  your  net  income.  This  is  all  that  matters.  You  could  start  with  a  million  up  above,  but  if  you've  got  that  old  oil-depletion  allowance,  for  example,  you  can  end  up  with  peanuts  here.  Well,  I  won't  keep  you.  I  know  your  hand  is  trem-  bling  and  you're  anxious  to  turn  to  the   tax-rate  schedule,  which  I  think  is  somewhere  toward  the  back  of  the  in-  structions.  (And,  please,  don't  try  that  &quot;personal-depletion&quot;  bit.  It's  been  done.  Only  oil  wells  deplete.  Your  plan  has  some  merit,  but  remember,  I  just  work  here.)  Tax:  It  hurt,  didn't  it?  It's  always  a  little  bit  more  than  you  remember.  Well,  think  of  it  this  way:  it's  fora  worthy  cause.  When  you  pick  up  .your  paper  each  morning  and  read  about  the  bomb-  ing  tonnage  being  dumped  on  those  Tonkinese  bridges,  you  can  allow  your-  self  to  swell  with  pride.  By  the  way,  I  read  somewhere  that  some  of  their  bridges  are  so  rickety  that  our  bombs  go  right  through  them  without  explod-  ing.  If  we  could  lick  that  problem,  then  we  might  come  home  with  that  old  coonskin  nailed  to  the  wall,  to  use  a  Johnsonian  (Lyndon)  phrase,  and  then  we  could  really  start  to  get  your  taxes  down.  Of  course,  I  would  not  want  you  to  be  overly  optimistic  about  tax  cuts,  because  if  we  intensify  the  bomb-  ing  we're  going  to  need  that  much  more  money  to  put  North  [REDACTED]  back  on  its  feet  after  the  war.  Anyway,  put  your  tax  amount  in  the  space  to  the  right.  We  realize,  of  course,  that  mul-  tiplying  that  percentage  times  your  net  and  then  adding  that  &quot;everything-over&quot;  figure  is  a  bit  much  for  most  people.  Generally  they  make  an  error.  In  their  favor.  (Freud  would  have  something  to  say  about  that  in  his  discussion  of  num-  bers!  )  Not  to  worry,  though-we'll  find  the  mistake.  In  this  area  we're  deadly.  SIGNATURE:  Put  your  signature  below,  and  I  must  tell  you,  &quot;Bob,&quot;  that  you  are  committing  an  unlawful  act  if  you  didn't  tell  the  truth  anywhere  above.  I'm  sure  you  &quot;came  clean,&quot;  though.  The  American  taxpayer  is  the  most  honest  in  the  world,  (I  forget  who  the  second  most  honest  is.)  I  trust  the  instructions  were  clear.  and  simple  and-dare  I  hope?  -that  they  touched  some  hidden  harmonies  here  and  there  and  reminded  you  again  ofthe  power  and  glory  of  our  language.  Of  course,  as  Johnson  put  it  (Lyndon,  I  think-  not  Samuel),  there  are  always  some  people  in  this  world  who  &quot;couldn't  pour  shot  out  of  a  boot  if  the  instructions  were  written  on  the  heel.&quot;  Well,  that  wraps  it  up.  And  it  only  remains  for  me  to  say  to  you,  Thanks  amillion!  Your  District  DirEcrtor "