 b"THE  number  of  college  bulletins  and  adult-education  come-ons  that  keep  turning  up  in  my  mail-  box  convinces  me  that  I  must  be  on  a  special  mailing  list  for  dropouts.  Not  that  I'm  complaining;  there  is  some-  thing  about  a  list  of  extension  courses  that  piques  my  interest  with  a  fascina-  tion  hitherto  reserved  for  a  catalogue  of  HongKong  honeymoon  accessories,  sent  to  me  once  by  mistake.  Each  time  I  read  through  the  latest  bulletin  of  ex-  tension  courses,  I  make  immediate  plans  to  drop  everything  and  return  to  school.  (I  was  ejected  from  college  many  years  ago,  the  victim  of  unproved  accusations  not  unlike  those  once  attached  to  Yel-  low  Kid  Weil.)  So  far,  however,  I  am  still  an  uneducated,  unextended  adult,  and  I  have  fallen  into  the  habit  of  browsing  throughan  imaginary,  hand-  somely  printed  course  bulletin  that  is  more  or  less  typical  of  them  all:  SummER  Session  Economic  THrory:  A  systematic  ap-  plication  and  critical  evaluation  of  the  basic  analytic  concepts  of  economic  theory,  with  an  emphasis  on  money  and  why  it's  good.  Fixed  coefficient  production  functions,  cost  and  supply  curves,  and  nonconvexity  comprise  the  first  semester,  with  the  second  semester     concentrating  on  spending,  making  change,  and  keeping  a  neat  wallet.  The  Federal  Reserve  System  is  analyzed,  and  advanced  students  are  coached  in  the  proper  method  of  filling  outade-  posit  slip.  Other  topics  include:  Infla-  tion  and  Depression-how  to  dress  for  each.  Loans,  interest,  welching.  Hisrory  or  EuroprEaN  CIivILIZA-  TION:  Ever  since  the  discovery  ofa  fossilized  eohippus  in  the  men's  wash-  room  at  Siddon's  Cafeteria  in  East  Rutherford,  New  Jersey,  it  has  been  suspected  that  at  one  time  Europe  and  [REDACTED]  were  connected  by  a  strip  of  land  that  later  sank  or  became  East  Rutherford,  New  Jersey,  or  both.  This  throws  a  new  perspective  on  the  forma-  tion  of  European  society  and  enables  historians  to  conjecture  about  why  it  sprang  up  in  an  area  that  would  have  made  a  much  betterAsia.  Also  studied  in  the  course  is  the  decision  to  hold  the  Renaissance  in  4974616c79.  InTropucrion  to  PsvcrHorocy:  The  theory  of  human  behavior.  Why  some  men  are  called  &quot;lovely  individuals&quot;  and  why  there  are  others  you  just  want  to  pinch.  Is  there  a  split  between  mind  and  body,  and,  if  so,  which  is  better  to  have?  Aggression  and  rebellion  are  dis-  cussed.  (Students  particularly  interested in  these  aspects  of  psychology  are  ad-  vised  to  take  one  of  these  Winter  Term  courses:  Introduction  to  Hostility;  In-  termediate  Hostility;  Advanced  Ha-  tred  ;  Theoretical  Foundations  of  Loath-  ing.)  Special  consideration  is  given  to  a  study  of  consciousness  as  opposed  to  unconsciousness,  with  many  helpful  hints  on  how  to  remain  conscious.  Aimed  at  under-  standing  obsessions  and  phobias,  includ-  ing  thefearof  being  suddenly  captured  and  stuffed  with  crabmeat,  reluctance  to  return  a  volleyball  serve,  and  the  in-  ability  to  say  the  word  &quot;mackinaw&quot;  in  the  presence  of  women.  The  compul-  sion  to  seek  out  the  company  of  beavers  is  analyzed.  I:  Everyone  from  Plato  to  Camus  is  read,  and  the  following  topics  are  covered:  Ethics:  The  categorical  imperative,  and  six  ways  to  make  it  work  for  you.  Aesthetics:  Is  art  the  mirror  of  life,  or  what?  Metaphysics:  What  happens  to  the  soul  after  death?  How  does  it  manage?  Epistemology:  Is  knowledge  know-  able?Ifnot,  how  do  we  know  this?  The  Absurd:  Why  existence  is  often  considered  silly,  particularly  for  men  who  wear  brown-and-white  shoes.  Manyness  and  oneness  are  studied  as  they  relate  to  otherness.  (Students  achieving  oneness  will  move  ahead  to  twoness.)  Puirosopuy  XXIX-B:  Introduction  to  God.  Confrontation  with  the  Creator  of  the  universe  through  informal  lec-  tures  and  field  trips.  Tur  New  MarmErmaTIcs:  Standard  mathematics  has  recently  been  rendered  obsolete  by  the  discovery  that  for  years  we  have  been  writing  the  numeral  five  backward.  This  has  led  to  a  re\xc3\xa9valua-  tion  of  counting  as  a  method  of  getting  from  one  to  ten.  Students  are  taught  advanced  concepts  of  Boolean  Algebra,  and  formerly  unsolvable  equations  are  dealt  with  by  threats  of  reprisals.  FunpamEnNTAL  Astronomy:  A  de-  tailed  study  of  the  universe  and  its  care  and  cleaning.  The  sun,  which  is  made  of  gas,  can  explode  at  any  moment,  sending  our  entire  planetary  system  hurtling  to  destruction;  students  are  advised  what  the  average  citizen  can  do  in  such  a  case.  They  are  also  taught  to  identify  various  constellations,  such  as  the  Big  Dipper,  Cygnus  the  Swan,  Sag-  ittarius  the  Archer,  and  the  twelve  stars  that  form  Lumides  the  Pants  Salesman.  MopErn  Brorocy:  How  the  body  functions,  and  where  it  can  usually  be  " b"found.  Blood  is  analyzed,  and  it  is  learned  why  it  is  the  best  possible  thing  to  have  coursing  through  one's  veins.  A  frog  is  dissected  by  students  and  its  digestive  tract  is  compared  with  man's,  with  the  frog  giving  a  good  account  of  itself  except  on  curries.  Rapin  Rrapinc:  This  course  will  increase  reading  speed  a  little  each  day  until  the  end  of  the  term,  by  which  time  the  student  will  be  required  to  read  &quot;The  Brothers  Karamazov&quot;  in  fifteen  minutes.  The  method  is  to  scan  the  page  and  eliminate  everything  ex-  cept  pronouns  from  one's  field  of  vi-  sion.  Soon  the  pronouns  are  eliminated.  Gradually  the  student  is  encouraged  to  nap.  A  frog  is  dissected.  Spring  comes.  People  marry  and  die.  Pinkerton  does  not  return.  Musicorocy  III:  The  Recorder.  The  student  is  taught  how  to  play  &quot;Yankee  Doodle&quot;  on  this  end-blown  wooden  flute,  and  progresses  rapidly  to  the  Brandenburg  Concertos.  Then  slowly  back  to  &quot;Yankee  Doodle.&quot;  Music  AprprEcIATION:  In  order  to  &quot;hear&quot;&quot;  a  great  piece  of  music  correctly,  one  must:  (1)  know  the  birthplace  of  the  composer,  (2)  be  able  to  tell  a  rondo  from  a  scherzo,  and  back  it  up  with  action.  Attitude  is  important.  Smiling  is  bad  form  unless  the  com-  poser  has  intended  the  music  to  be  funny,  as  in  &quot;Till  Eulenspiegel,&quot;  which abounds  in  musical  jokes  (although  the  trombone  has  the  best  lines).  The  ear,  too,  must  be  trained,  for  itis  our  most  easily  deceived  organ  and  can  be  made  to  think  it  is  a  nose  by  bad  placement  of  stereo  speakers.  Other  topics  include:  The  four-bar  rest  and  its  potential  as  a  political  weapon.  The  Gregorian  Chant:  Which  monks  kept  the  beat.  Waerrrinc  ror  THE\xc2\xae  Stace:  All  drama  is  conflict.  Character  development  is  also  very  important.  Also  what  they  say.  Students  learn  that  long,  dull  speeches  are  not  so  effective,  while  short,  &quot;funny&quot;&quot;  ones  seem  to  go  over  well.  Simplified  audience  psychology,  is  explored:  Why  is  aplay  about  a  lovable  old  character  named  Gramps  often  not  as  interesting  in  the  theatre  as  star-  ing  at  the  back  of  someone's  head  and  trying  to  make  him  turn  around?  In-  teresting  aspects  of  stage  history  are  also  examined.  For  example,  before  the  invention  of  italics,  stage  directions  were  often  mistaken  for  dialogue,  and  selves  saying,  &quot;John  rises,  crosses  left.&quot;  This  naturally  led  to  embarrassment  and,  on  some  occasions,  dreadful  no-  tices.  The  phenomenon  is  analyzed  in  detail,  and  students  are  guided  in  avoid-  ing  mistakes.  Required  text:  A.  F.  Shulte's  &quot;Shakespeare:  Was  He  Four  Women?&quot;  InTropuction  To  Soctat  WoORK:  A  course  designed  to  instruct  the  social  worker  who  is  interested  in  going  out  &quot;in  the  field.&quot;  Topics  covered  include:  how  to  organize  street  gangs  into  basketball  teams,  and  vice  versa;  play-  grounds  as  a  means  of  preventing  ju-  venile  crime,  and  how  to  get  potentially  homicidal  cases  to  try  the  sliding  pond;  discrimination;  the  broken  home;  what  to  do  if  you  are  hit  with  a  bicycle  chain.  YEats  anp  HyoIENE,  a  CoMPARA-  TIVE  Srupy:  The  poetry  of  William  Butler  Yeats  is  analyzed  against  a  background  of  proper  dental  care.  (Course  open  to  a  limited  number  of  g  r  e  a  t  a  c  t  o  r  s  f  r  e  q  u  e  n  t  l  y  f  o  u  n  d  t  h  e  m  -  s  t  u  d  e  n  t  s  .  ) "