   THE  PREDATOR  ESTERDAY,  while  mousing  in  i  the  meadow,  Ezra  saw  acar  drift  down  the  road  and,  remember-  ing  that  cars  now  carry  men  with  guns,  heran  toward  the  barn.  Looking  into  the  meadow  from  an  upstairs  window,  I  saw  his  body  extended  in  the  graceful  forward  motion  that  for  almost  twelve  years  had  set  him  apart  from  the  clum-  sy  menwho  come  to  the  farm  with  dogs  and  guns  to  kill.  One  of  these  men,  having  appeared  at  our  backdoor  some  years  ago  to  explain  his  intention  to  kill  the  mourning  doves  that  were  feeding  in  our  cornfield,  said,  &quot;A  dove  is  one  of  the  fastest  targets  we  have.  So  you  needn't  be  afraid  we'll  shoot  all  of  them.  The  average  hunter  is  happy  if  he  gets  a  dozen  of  the  weak  and  the  old-birds  that  will  be  killed  by  pred-  ators  anyway.&quot;  I  had  believed  him,  knowing  that  for  each  one  of  us  there  is  a  predator;  the  game  of  liv-  ing  is  nothing  more  than  an  attempt  to  postpone  the  day  when  predator  and  prey  meet.  But  even  so  I  had  said,  &quot;Please  don't.I  don't  want  to  see  them  when  they're  [REDACTED];  Laughing,  this  hunter  left  the  house  and  took  his  party  to  other,  presumably  greener,  cornfields.  That  was  the  fall  Ezra  was  born.  And  now  it  was  spring,  more  than  eleven  years  later,  the  time  of  the  year  again  when  only  red  squirrels,  rac-  coons,  woodchucks,  grackles,  opossums,  skunks-and  cats-must  be  wary  of  men  with  guns.  Remembering  this,  I  was  wary,  too.  Certainly  the  caution  with  which  the  driver  of  the  car  slowed  down  and  stopped  where  Ezra,  with  his  fur  bristling  in  all  directions,  had  taken  flight  a  moment  earlier  was  strange  enough  to  make  me  wonder  why  the  car  had  stopped.  Unable  to  see  the  driver,  I  could  not  guess  whatwas  in  his  mind.  Perhaps,  I  thought,  the  car,  which  belonged  to  a  neighbor  who  often  hunted  on  the  farm,  was  being  used  by  his  wife  or  a  mutual  acquaintance  in  the  neighborhood  who,  knowing  Ezra,  had  stopped  to  say  a  comforting  word  and  praise  him  for  having  lived  so  long.  In  fact,  the  words  &quot;They  have  stopped  to  admire  him&quot;  had  taken  shape  in  my  thoughts  and  blocked  my  natural  reac-  tion  to  Ezra's  fear:  running  from  the  house  in  the  hope  of  protecting  him.  Then  I  hear  the  rifle's  report  and  begin  to  run,  like  Ezra,  toward  the  barn.  And  there,  in  the  shadow  of  the  barn,  I  see  Ezra-dying.  &quot;Oh,  Ezra.  Ezra.&quot;  Itry  to  believe  that  he  heard  me,  In  the  summer,  when  we  mow  the  grass  that  will  grow  over  his  grave  under  the  holly  tree,  wemay  begrate-  ful  that  the  man  in  the  car  could  shoot  so  well,  sparing  us  and  Ezra  the  hu-  miliation  of  slow  death  and  mutilation.  I  remember  now  what  our  son,  Eric,  said  when  my  father  died  at  my  feet:  &quot;He  died  well.&quot;  Ezra  also  died  well.  And,  aside  from  his  premature  weaning  and  later  castration,  Ezra  lived  well,  too.  Sometimes,  after  a  nap  ora  meal,  Ezra  came  to  the  sofa  where  I  was  catnapping  and  began  to  &quot;nurse.&quot;  Sometimes  he  presented  himself  to  feminine  callers  and  suggested  that  they  take  him  in  their  arms  and  hold  him  while  he  pretended  to  bea  very  young  kitten.  Thenwe  set  him  on  the  floor  and  said,  &quot;Poor  Ezra  thinks  you  are  his  mother.&quot;  Today,  I  wonder  why  we  laughed  at  Ezra,  who,  having  survived  the  tor-  ments  of  his  weaning  and  gelding,  was  able  to  goon  living  with  grace  and  good  humor.  Why  was  I  angry  when  53  he  brought  the  young  quail  to  the  kitch-  en  door  for  me  to  admire?  It  was  his  quail  and  he  would  have  given  it  to  me.  Why  did  Eric  sob  so  that  I  thought  the  telephone  connection  had  broken  when  I  told  him  that  Ezra  had  been  shot?  Is  it  because  he  gave  Ezra  to  me  when  he  married  and  left  home  to  go  on  the  long  trip  from  which  both  of  us  knew  there  could  be  no  return-hur-  ried  visits  and  letters,  but  no  homecom-  ing?  Ezra,  however,  had  enjoyed  the  freedom  thatEric's  going  gave  him  and,  although  a  city  cat,  took  to  the  farm  and  brought  back  to  the  house  presents  of  cardinals  and  indigo  bunt-  ings  until,  on  the  first  morning  of  his  stay  in  the  country,  the  lawn  was  abloom  with  birds.  NOW,  why  do  I  weep  for  Ezra?  The  predator  and  I  will  meet  one  day.  Until  then,  Eric  will  bring  me  presents  and  words  of  gratitude,  and  take  whatever  comfort  he  can  from  me.  I  must  tell  him  that  Ezra  died  well  and  there  is  no  need  to  weep  for  him. 