 b"DRUNKS  talk  to  lampposts.  Lit-  D  tle  girls  in  Victorian  novels  talk  to  imaginary  playmates.  I  talk  to  the  writing  on  packages  and  signs.  It,  of  course,  has  been  talking  to  me  ever  since  I  learned  to  read,  but  itis  only  recently  that  I  have  started  answering.  Most  of  my  life  I  have  been  a  good  consumer  like  any  other  556e6974656420537461746573n,  keeping  my  mouth  shut  and  my  ears  open.  Quietly  I  pushed  my  cart  down  supermarket  aisles,  listening  to  the  mechanical  music  and  being  influenced  by  point-of-sale  displays.  Quietly  I  re-  laxed  at  home,  watching  teleshapes  that  couldn't  see  me  and  hearing  electronic  voices  that  I  could  turn  off  but  not  answer.  It  was  all  perfectly  normal  and  perfectly  one-way.  Never  was  I  dis-  turbed  by  my  lack  of  I-thou  relation-  ships  with  vending  machines,  or  by  the  fact  that  though  a  girl  on  a  poster  could  stir  me,  there  was  no  hope  of  my  stir-  ring  her.  Then,  a  couple  of  years  ago,  I  sud-  denly  found  myself  wanting  to  ask  a  cigarette  machine  in  Keene,  New  Hampshire,  why  it  charged  more  for  cigarettes  than  the  human  beings  in  the  drugstore  across  the  street.  Hardly  two  weeks  later,  I  had  an  overwhelming  urge  to  tell  an  electronic  voice  in  my  living  room  that  the  &quot;nei&quot;  of  &quot;neither&quot;  may  have  been  pronounced  &quot;nigh&quot;  by  the  Electors  of  Hanover,  even  after  they  moved  to  [REDACTED],  but  the  right  way  to  say  it  is  &quot;knee.&quot;  Naturally  I  couldn't  do  either.  The  urge  grew,  though,  and  before  I  knew  it  I  found  myself  writing  one  letter  to  the  com-  pany  that  owned  the  vending  machine  (you  can  sometimes  find  the  address  on  the  side)  and  another  to  the  net-  work  that  employed  the  rexophile  an-  nouncer.  I  promptly  got  answers  from  both,  but  the  answers  didn't  tell  me  much,  except  that  public  relations  is  a  grow-  ing  field.  Both  might  have  been  com-  posed  by  the  man  who  handles  cor-  respondence  for  my  congressman-I  had  happened  to  send  him  a  thoughtful  letter  about  Far  Eastern  policy  that  same  month.  All  three  replies  had  a  kind  of  customized  form-letter  quality  that  I  assume  is  designed  togive  people  like  me  the  illusion  that  we  have  got  through  when  we  haven't.  The  con-  gressman  said  he  valued  my  opinion  and  would  keep  it  in  mind.  The  net-  work  said  it  was  delighted  to  hear  from  me  and  its  dictionary  approved  both  the  pronunciations  I  mentioned.  The  vending-machine  company  said  vending " b" machines  were  very  expensive  and  to-  bacco  taxes  very  high.  It  also  said  that  as  I  was  obviously  a  very  thoughtful  person,  it  was  sending  me  a  question-  naire  to  fill  out  on  what  kinds  of  prod-  ucts  I  would  like  to  see  available  in  vending  machines,  and  a  quarter  for  my  trouble.  It  was  at  this  point  that  I  turned  to  fantasy.  If  dialogue  with  the  economy  has  to  be  an  illusion,  I  decided,  it  might  as  well  be  illusion  of  my  own  making.  The  answers  would  be  more  interest-  ing.  Ever  since,  I  have  been  holding  frequent  conversations  with  billboards  and  taped  messages  and  directions  on  razor-blade  packages.,  I'll  give  an  example.  There  is  a  highway  sign  I  sometimes  pass  in  Con-  necticut  which  asserts  that  there  are  eight  friendly  inns  on  a  body  of  water  called  Lake  Waramaug,  and  urges  me  to  stay  at  one  of  them.  In  mere  reality  it  would  be  difficult  to  ask  that  sign  how  friendliness  can  be  offered  as  a  commodity,  like  clean  towels  or  room  service.  For  the  dweller  in  fantasy  it's  a  snap.  The  conversation  goes  like  this:  Mz:  Hello,  you  friendly  sign.  Ston  (friendlily)  :  Hello-alo.  That's  a  nice  car  you're  driving,  Mister.  I  like  you.  Why  don't  you  take  your  next  left  and  come  on  to  Lake  Wara-  maug?  Mz:  Maybe  I  will.  Are  all  eight  of  the  inns  really  friendly?  Ston:  Are  they!  Why,  Mister,  you  don't  know  what  friendship  means  till  you've  stayed  at  Lake  Waramaug.  Mr  (suddenly,  at  thirty-nine,  struck  by  doubts):  By  gosh,  you're  right.  I  don't  know.  What  does  friendship  mean?  SIGN:  At  our  inns,  it  means  that  everybody  from  the  bellhop  to  the  man-  ager  is  sincerely  glad  to  see  you,  that  we  have  a  relaxed,  friendly  atmos-  phere-  Mr:  Hold  it.  You  can't  define  a  word  in  terms  of  itself.  Ston:Oops.  I  mean  a  relaxed,  casual  atmosphere,  where  everything's  very  informal,  where  the  bartender  smiles  as  he  mixes  you  a  Martini,  where-well,  where  everybody  from  the  bellhop  to  the  manager  is  sincerely  glad  to  see  you.  Mr:  That's  great!  I  love  big  wel-  comes.  We'll  all  be  real  friends,  right?  SIGN  (after  a  seconds  hesitation):  Sure.  Every  guest  is  a  friend.  Mr:  Sign,  this  is  the  best  news  I've  had  in  a  long  time.  It  just  happens  that  I'm  dead  tired,  dead  broke,  and  very  hungry.  A  clean  bed  and  a  good  dinner  are  just  what  I  need.  Which " b" of  my  new  friends  shall  I  stay  with?  SIGN  (icy):  Listen,  buddy,  if  you're  looking  for  charity,  why  don't  you  try  Travelers  Aid?  Mr:  When  I've  got  sincere  friends  all  around  Lake  Waramaug?  Why  should  T?  Ston:  O.K.,  I  walked  into  that  one.  So  they're  not  your  real  friends.  MB:  But  they're  still  sincerely  glad  -|  to  see  me?  SIGN:  Well,  yes,  sure.  What  I  meant  was,  provided  you  can  pay  your  bill  everybody  from  the  bellhop  to  the  manager  really  does  feel  sincerely  glad  to  see  you,  whether  they  personally  like  you  or  not,  and  any  employee  that  can't  feel  that  way  gets  fired.  Fair  enough?  Mr:  You  mean  you  have  to  be  a  hypocrite  to  work  at  Lake  Waramaug?  Ston:  Look,  I'm  just  a  sign.  I  don't  know  everything.  Why  don't  you  ask  Marshall  McLuhan?  UT  I  don't  do  that.  I  drive  on  to  Torrington,  where  Istop  to  buy  some  groceries  to  take  to  my  cottage  with  me.  (I  was  lying  when  I  told  the  sign  I  was  broke.  Unlike  hotel-  keepers,  I'm  naturally  insincere.)  The  first  thing  I  buy  is  a  package  of  garden-  fresh  frozen  vegetables.  Mr:  What  does  &quot;garden-fresh&quot;  mean,  package?  Packace:  Just  what  it  says.  What's  nicer  and  fresher  than  a  garden?  (Strikes  an  attitude)  &quot;A  Garden  is  a  lovesome  thing,  God  wot!  Rose  plot...&quot;  Mr:  Listen,  I  like  gardens,  too.  I  just  want  to  know  what  &quot;garden-  fresh&quot;  means  on  a  package  of  frozen  peas.  Packace:  If  I  have  to  spell  it  out,  it  means  the  peas  inside  me  are  as  fresh  as  if  you'd  gone  into  your  own  vege-  table  garden  and  picked  them  right  off  the  pea  vines  ten  minutes  before  din-  :  ner.  Mr:  When  were  the  peas  inside  you  picked?  PackacE:  Oh,  about  six  months  ago.  But  they've  been  frozen,  wise  guy.  They  could  just  as  well  have  been  picked  today.  Mr:  Were  they  frozen  ten  minutes  after  being  picked?  Packace:  It  was  the  same  day.  We  |  rush  themfrom  the  fields  to  the  plant-  Mr:  Ten  minutes?  Package:  All  right,  if  you're  going  to  be  literal  about  it,  the  peas  inside  me  are  as  fresh  as  if  you'd  gone  into  your  own  vegetable  garden  and  picked  them  " b"rightoff  the  pea  vines  within  twelve  hours  before  dinner.  Mr:And  there's  been  no  deteriora-  tion  at  all  during  the  six  months?  Package:  I  said  they  were  frozen.  Mr:  Biochemical  change  ceases  en-  tirely  when  peas  are  frozen?  Package:  It  goes  a  lot  slower.  Mr:  But  it  does  occur?  Package:  Look,  if  you  don't  like  frozen  foods,  grow  your  own  damn  peas.  I  don't  care.  ME:  Are  you  going  to  answer  the  question?  PackacgE  (in  a  fury):  Sure,  there's  a  little  deterioration.  But  it's  well  within  Department  of  Agriculture  standards,  and-  At  this  point,  the  woman  at  the  checkout  counter  shoves  the  package  into  a  foil-lined  bag,  and  I  drive  on  up  to  the  cottage.  Y  next  conversation  takes  place  on  Monday,  when  I'm  back  in  New  York,  about  to  get  a  cup  of  coffee  out  of  an  automatic  machine.  There  are  no  less  than  five  choices,  with  a  button  to  push  for  each.  I  can  have  black,  sugar  only,  cream  only,  sugar  and  cream,  or  sugar  and  extra  cream.  ME:  Excuse  me,  but  I  was  wonder-  ing  why  &quot;cream&quot;  is  spelled  c-r-e-m-e.  MacHINE:  Perfectly  good  spelling.  The  French  use  it,  you  know.  Voulez-  vous  un  caf\xc3\xa9  creme?  ME:  Ou.  Avce  sucre.  But  Why  French  in  New  York  City?  MacumE:  I  didn't  say  it  was  French.  I  said  the  French  use  that  spell-  ing.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  has  some-  thing  to  do  with  trademarks.  ME:  I  don't  follow.  MacHmE:  Come  on,  you  haven't  grown  up  in  [REDACTED]  without  knowing" b"about  trademarks.  No  c  ompan  y  can  get  exclusive  rights  to  a  wor  d  unless  they  figure  out  a  n  ew  spelling.  Tha  t'  s  why  there  are  so  many.  You  don't  think  ser  io  us  business  exe  c  uti  v  es  lke  to  name  their  stuff  Wonda  Winda  or  Tas-tee  Bitz,  do  you?  Mr:  Do  you  have  exclusive  rig  ht  s  to  c-r-e-m  -e?  I  could  sw  ear  I'd  seen  that  on  s  ome  kind  of  makeup  my  wife  uses.  MacHinE:  Sure.  That  '  s  so  your  wife  won't  think  her  makeup  has  c  rea  m  from  c  ows  i  n  it.  It  me  ans  a  c  ream  y  or  cream-type  preparation.  Mz:  But  you  do  mean  cream  from  cows,  don't  you?  I  mean  it'  s  fresh-made  hot  co  ffee,  served  twenty-fou  r  hours  a  day,  which  is  quite  a  mi  racle  ,  when  you  come  to  think  of  it.  Mr:  Cre  am  from  cows?  MacrHinE  :  So  it'  s  from  soyb  eans.  You  know,  t  here's  a  con  si  der  ab  le  body  o  f  medical  o  pinion  that  thinks  c  rea  m  from  cows  is  pretty  dangerous  stuff.  Bad  f  or  the  he  art.  You  ought  to  be  down  on  your  knees  t  hanking  me.  Mz  (still  u  prig  h  t):  I  also  know  about  that  study  of  I  rish  twin  b  roth  e  rs  where  one  brother  stayed  in  Ire  l  and  and  the  ot  her  came  to  the  United  [REDACTED].  The  o  nes  back  home  us  ed  more  butter  and  cream,  but  the  margarine  eaters  over  here  had  more  heart  at-  tacks.  W  hat  about  tha  t  ?  MacHin\xc2\xaeE:  Easy.  The  re  's  lots  more  stresses  in  556e6974656420537461746573n  life.  Mr:  And  t  here  f  ore  I've  got  to  drink  soybe  a  n  juice  in  my  coffe  e?  Wel  l,  why  not  say  pl  ainly  that  '  s  what  you  serve,  and  why  ?  Mayb  e  you'd  pull  the  t  rade  from  the  dairy  re  staurant  s.  MacetnE:  Mis  t  er,  you  thin  k  we  got  ro  om  for  he  alt  h  lectures  on  the  panel  above  a  lousy  push  but  t  on?  C-r-e-m-e  fit  s  on  the  pan  el  ,  everybody  knows  what  it  means,  e  veryb  o  dy's  hap  py  .  Mr:  B  ut-  MacH  I  NnE  (going  r  ight  on):  What  else  could  we  do?  You've  go  t  to  think  a  bou  t  customer  recognition.  Say  we  put  your  phrase-&quot;soybean  juice,&quot;  was  it?-on  the  p  anel  .  Does  i  t  sound  like  some  t  hing  to  go  in  coffee?  Or  d  oes  i  t  confuse  the  hell  out  of  everybody  ?  Or  maybe  you'd  suggest  &quot;  soy  s  auce&quot;?  L  is-  ten,  the  stupes  we  get  w  ould  be  comi  n  g  with  plates  and  silve  rw  are,  looking  for  the  c  how  mein.  Mz:  But-  MacH:in\xc2\xaeE:  And  if  we  put  &quot;cream  substitute  made  from  soybeans-better  for  you,&quot;  I  ask  you,  how  are  we  going  to  get  it  all  on?  Mr:  But  what  I've  been  trying  to " b"say  is  that  space  is  plainly  not  the  whole  problem.  Look  at  your  panel.  Plenty  of  room  for  customer  recognition.  I  see  &quot;White  Heart  Dairy.&quot;  There,  right  above  the  c-r-e-m-e.  What  about  that?  MacummNE  (blushing  bright  scarlet):  It's  not  very  big  type.  Mr:  Interesting  phrase,  though.  MaceHinE:  Don't  say  it.  I  know  what  you're  thinking.  To  some  extent  you  have  to  compromise  to  succeed  in  business,  and  that's  a  fact.  ME:  By  the  way,  what's  your  sugar  made  of?  MacHinE:  Sorry,  Mister.  You'll  have  to  ask  the  Food  and  Drug  Ad-  ministration.  I  just  went  out  of  order. "