 b"THE  guns  clank  on  the  stone,  one  after  the  other  echoing  against  the  walls  outside  the  chapel,  as  the  men  come  in  for  Mass  before  the  shoot.  Mamie,  whose  age  is  eight  years  and  two  months,  kneels  in  the  second  row  from  the  back,  on  the  right-hand  side,  near  the  Virgin,  where  a  warm  candle  is  lit.  There  is  no  other  warmth.  Alice  Long  is  kneeling  on  a  front  hassock.  Her  two  brothers  from  [REDACTED]  have  come  in-tall  men  in  knickerbockers  and  green  wool  stockings  that  stride  past  Mamie's  eyes  as  she  kneels  in  her  place.  Other  big  men  have  put  their  guns  against  the  wall  outside  the  chapel  door.  The  Catholics  from  the  cottages  have  come  in.  Everyone  except  the  strangers  is  praying  for  moresnow  and  a  road  blockage  to  the  town,  so  that  poor  Alice  Long  can  decently  serve  roe  deer,  roe  deer,  roe  deer  for  all  the  meals  that  the  [REDACTED]  people  are  going  to  eat.  The  woods  are  cracking  alive  with  roe  deer,  but  meat  from  the  town  has  got  to  be  paid  for  with  money.  Alice  Long  is  round-shouldered  and  worried;  she  is  the  only  daughter  of  old  Sir  Martin,  and  is  always  addressed,  to  her  face,  as  Miss  Long.  Her  money  is  her  own,  but  it  goes  into  the  keeping  of  the  House.  Alice  Long's  two  brothers'  wives  have  come  into  the  chapel  now.  They  arethe  last,  because  they  have  to  look  after  their  own  babies  when  they  get  up.  Before  Mamie's  birth,  all  the  babies  in  the  House  had  nurses.  The  two  wives  were  differently  made  from  the  start,  before  they  became  Alice  Long's  sisters-in-law,  and  still  look  so,  although  their  tweed  coats  were  made  more  alike.  One  is  called  Lady  Caroline  and  the  other,  Mrs.  Martin  Long,  will  be  Lady  Long  when  old  Sir  Martin  dies  and  Martin  Long  comes  into  the  title.  Mamie  is  watching  Lady  Caroline  through  her  fingers.  Lady  Caroline  is  big  and  broad,  with  bobbed  black  hair  under  her  black  lace  veil;  she  doesn't  like  Alice  Long's  dogs,  and  dogs  are  the  only  things  Alice  Long  has  for  her-  self.  Alice  Long  was  made  to  be  kept  down  by  upkeep.  The  big  clock  upstairs  chimes  seven.  The  priest  comes  in  and  the  feet  shuffle.  Mamie  cannot  see  the  altar  when  everyone  is  standing.  She  stares  at  the  candle.  The  service  begins.  Will  the  friends  who  have  come  from  warm  [REDACTED]  catch  their  death  of  colds?  MAMIE  stops  in  the  snow.  The  ends  of  the  dogs'  leashes  are  wound  round  her  hands  in  their  woollen  gloves,  three  round  the  right  hand  and  two  round  the  left.  She  unwinds  the  leads  to  give  her  arms  scope,  and  the  dogs  take  advantage  of  the  few  ex-  tra  inches  of  freedom,  snuffing  and  wriggling  away  from  Mamie  until  the  leads  pull  taut.  But  she  works  them  back,  lifting  her  elbows  to  cup  her  hands  to  her  mouth.      &quot;Come  out.  I  can  see  you.&quot;  No  reply.  She  repeats  the  words  and  drops  her  arms,  aching  from  the  weight  of  strain-  ing  dogs.  There  is  a  thud  of  snowfall  from  the  clump  of  trees.  The  noise  would  have  been  only  a  little  plop  had  there  been  any  more  sound  besides  that  of  the  snuffling  dogs.  She  is  taking  Alice  Long's  dogs  for  a  walk.  &quot;She'll  be  glad  to,  Miss  Long,&quot;  said  her  mother.  &quot;Tomorrow  after  school.  I?  s  a  half  day.&quot;  This  morning,  her  mother  said,  &quot;Come  straight  home  at  two  for  Alice  Long's  dogs.&quot;  To  do  so,  Mamie  has  missed  her  dancing  lesson  at  the  convent.  She  is  learning  the  sword  dance.  Alice  Long  had  got  her  into  the  convent  at  reduced  fees,  and  even  those  reduced  fees  Alice  Long  pays  herself.  She  likes  to  keep  the  Catholic  tenants  Catholic.  Mamie  walks  on,  satisfied  there  are  no  boys  behind  the  trees.  She  is  afraid  the  boys  will  find  her  and  tease  the  dogs,  laugh  at  her,  laugh  at  the  little  pad-  ding,  waddling  dogs,  do  them  harm  be-  fore  they  can  be  returned  to  the  House.  The  snow  in  the  wood  is  too  deep  for  low-made  dogs.  Mamie  wanders  around  the  edge  of  the  wood,  on  the  crunchy  path,  with  little  running  steps  every  now  and  then  as  the  dogs  get  the  better  of  her.  &quot;My  dachshunds,&quot;  said  Alice  Long  lovingly.  The  country  people  said  to  cach  other,  when  she  was  out  of  sight,  &quot;Alice  Long  has  only  got  her  dogs.  And  all  that  upkeep.&quot;  &quot;Lady  Caroline  hates  dogs.&quot;  &quot;No,  she  only  hates  dachshunds.  German  sausages.  She  likes  big  dogs  for  the  country.&quot;  Alice  Long  is  sitting  with  her  teacup  in  Mamie's  house,  which  has  five  rooms  plus  k.p.b.-standing  for  kitchen,  pan-  try,  and  bathroom-and  is  semi-de-  tached.  Next  door  are  Alice  Long's  Couple.  Mamie's  father  no  longer  works  on  the  estate  but  is  a  foreman  in  the  town  at  Heppleford  and  Styles  Linoleum.  &quot;Lady  Caroline  can't  bear  them.  They've  beenlocked  in  the  north  wing  since  Friday.  I  have  to  keep  a  fire  go-  ing.  ...&quot;  &quot;T  hat  wing's  not  heated,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;No.  They  are  freezing  and  lonely.  Ikeep  putting  logs  on.  I  get  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  to  see  to  the  fire.&quot;  &quot;They'll  be  all  right,  Miss  Long.&quot;  &quot;They  need  a  good  run,  that's  all.  I  won't  have  time  for  the  dogs  today.  But  " b"the  family  goes  home  tomorrow  or  Wednesday.  ...&quot;  Mamie  has  taken  the  dogs  out  for  a  run  before.  She  is  not  allowed  to  go  near  the  wood  but  must  keep  to  the  in-  habited  paths  that  pass  the  groups  of  houses  on  the  estate  and  lead  to  the  shop.  Near  the  shop  are  usually  the  children  from  the  village  school,  throw-  ing  snowballs  in  winter,  wheeling  bicy-  cles  in  summer.  Mamie  has  money  for  toffce  and  an  orange  drink.  She  wan-  ders  by  the  wood.  Her  father  has  been  at  home  for  three  working  days.  There  is  a  strike.  Alice  Long  sits  downstairs.  The  father  has  gone  to  wait  upstairs  until  she  leaves.  Then  he  opens  the  cupboard  door  where  the  television  set  is  placed  in  a  recess  formed  by  the  removal  of  one  of  the  shelves.  Alice  Long  has  not  seen  this  television  set.  The  people  next  door,  her  Couple,  took  on  a  television  many  years  ago,  and  keep  it  out  in  the  living  room.  Mitzi,  Fritzi,  Kitzy.  &quot;Alice  Long's  dogs  are  all  she's  got  to  herself.&quot;  The  dogs  go  about  together  and  sometimes  all  answer  at  once  when  Alice  Long  calls  one  of  their  names.  Mamie  does  not  know  them  apart.  They  vary  slightly  in  size,  fatness,  and  in  the  black  scars  on  their  brown  coats.  The  path  has  become  a  ridge  of  froz-  en  earth  where  the  field  has  been  plowed  right  up  to  the  verge  of  the  wood.  The  daylight  is  turning  blue  with  cold  while  Mamie  struggles  with  the  leads.  One  gum  boot  digs  deep  in  a  fur-  row  and  the  other  stabs  to  keep  its  hold  on  the  ridge.  The  dogs  snufflie  each  other  and  snort  steam.  'They  strain  toward  the  wood,  and  Hamilton  is  sud-  denly  there-Alice  Long's  gamekeeper,  coming  out  of  the  trees,  tall  and  broad,  with  his  gray  mustache  and  deep-pink  face.  He  looks  at  Mamie  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Come  here.&quot;  The  dogs  fuss  round  him,  cutting  into  her  gloves.  Mamie  says,  &quot;I've  got  to  go  that  way,&quot;  pointing  down  toward  her  home  across  the  field.  &quot;I'll  see  you  back  at  the  House,&quot;  he  says,  and  stoops  back  into  the  wood,  examining  the  undergrown  branches.  Hamilton  looks  after  old  Sir  Martin  when  he  becomes  beyond  a  woman's  strength.  &quot;I'm  afraid  my  father  is  not  very  well  anymore.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  how  you  do  it,  Miss  Long.&quot;  Mamie's  mother  says  that  anybody  else  but  Alice  Long  would  have  put  the  old  man  away.  Blitzi,  Ritzi,  and   Hamilton  sees  to  the  boilers  that  heat  the  heated  wing.  He  hastoo  much  to  do  to  air  the  dogs  regularly.  &quot;Without  Hamilton,  I  don't  know  what  we  should  do.  Before  your  hus-  band  left  us,  we  had  it  easier.&quot;  Mamie  has  turned  away  from  the  wood.  She  has  taken  the  path  to  the  houses,  looking  back  all  the  time  to  see  whether  Hamilton  is  following  her  with  his  eyes,  those  eyes  that  are  two  poached  eggs  grown  old,  looking  at  her  every  time  he  sees  her.  She  takes  the  footpath  on  the  main  road.  The  dogs  are  trotting  now.  A  car  passes,  and  a  delivery  van  from  the  grocer's  shop  in  the  town.  She  clutches  the  leads.  &quot;Don't  let  one  of  them  get  rum  over.  Alice  Long  would  be  up  to  nine-  ty-nine.&quot;  She  presses,  at  the  sharp  bend,  into  the  high  white  bank  which  touches  again  on  the  wood,  while  a  very  big  lorry,  carrying  sacks  of  coal,  creeps  fearfully  around  as  if  bewaring  of  the  dogs.  BUMP  on  her  shoulder,  then  bump  on  her  cap  come  the  snowballs.  The  boys  are  up  there  on  the  bank.  She  turns  and  looks  quickly  and  sees  parts  of  children  ducking  out  of  sight  with  short,  laughing  squeals.  There  are  two  girls  with  the  boys;  she  has  seen  their  hair.  One  of  the  girls  wears  the  dark-  blue  convent  cap.  &quot;Connie,  come  down!&quot;  &quot;It  isn't  Connie,&quot;  Gwen's  voice  answers.  Gwen  should  be  at  the  dancing  class.  She  is  learning  to  do  the  sword  dance  with  Mamie.  A  snowball  falls  on  the  road  and  bursts  open.  There  is  no  stone  inside  it.  The  dogs  are  yelping  now,  pelted  with  snowballs.  They  are  up  to  ninety-nine,  not  used  to  this.  Mamie  drags  them  round  the  corner  and  starts  to  run.  The  children  scramble  down  after  her  and  catch  up.  She  recognizes  them  all.  She  tries  to  gather  up  some  snow,  but  itis  impos-  sible  to  make  and  throw  a  ball  with  the  leads  around  her  gloves.  &quot;Where  are  you  going  with  those  dogs?&quot;  says  a  boy.  &quot;To  the  shop,  then  up  to  the  House.&quot;  &quot;They  look  dirty.&quot;  Gwen  says,  &quot;Do  you  like  those  dogs?&quot;  &quot;Not  all  of  them  together.&quot;  &quot;Let  them  run  loose,&quot;  says  the  other  girl.  &quot;It's  good  for  them.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Come  on  and  play.&quot;  She  is  scrambling  up  the  bank,  while  " b"everyone  is  trying  to  pull  the  dogs  up  by  their  leads  or  push  them  upby  their  bottoms.  &quot;Lift  them!&quot;  &quot;Let  go  the  leads,  We'll  take  one  each.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(N0'7\xe2\x80\x99  Up  on  the  bank,  Mamie  says,  &quot;I'll  tic  them  to  that  tree.&quot;  She  refuses  to  let  the  leads  out  of  her  own  hands,  but  she  permits  two  of  the  boys  to  make  the  knots  secure,  as  they  have  learned  to  do  in  the  Scout  Cubs.  Then  it  is  boys  against  girls  in  a  snow  fight,  with  such  fast  pelting  and  splutters  from  drenched  faces,  such  loud  shrieks  that  the  dogs'  coughing  and  whining  can  scarcely  be  heard.  When  itis  time  to  go,  Mamie  counts  the  dogs.  Then  she  starts  to  untie  them.  The  knots  are  difficult.  She  calls  after  one  of  the  boys  to  come  and  untie  the  knots,  but  he  does  not  look  around.  Gwen  returns;  she  stands  and  looks.  Mamie  is  kneeling  in  the  slush,  trying.  &quot;How  do  you  untie  these  knots?&quot;  All  the  leads  are  mixed  up  in  a  knotted  muddle.  &quot;I  don't  names?&quot;  &quot;Mitzi,  Kitzy.&quot;  (IDU  other?&quot;  t\xe2\x80\x98NO.,\xe2\x80\x99  Mamie  bends  down  with  her  strong  teeth  in  the  leather.  She  has  loosened  the  first  knot.  All  the  knots  are  coming  them  throttle  up.  You'll  know.  What's  their  Fritzi,  Blitzi,  Ritzi,  and  you  know  one  from  the  loose.  She  gets  her  woollen  gloves  on  again  and  starts  to  wind  the  leads  around  her  hands.  One  of  them  springs  from  her  grasp,  and  the  little  dog  scuttles  away  into  the  wood  among  theold  wet  leaves,  so  that  it  seems  to  slither  like  a  snake  on  its  belly  with  its  cord  bouncing  behind  it.  &quot;Mitzi!  Kitzy!  Blitzi!&quot;  The  dog  disappears  and  the  four  in  hand  are  excited,  anxious  to  be  free  and  warmed  up,  too.  &quot;Catch  him,  Gwen!  Can  you  see  him?  Where  is  it?  Mitzi-mitzi-mitzi!  Blitzi-blitzi!&quot;  &quot;I've  got  to  go  home,&quot;  Gwen  says.  &quot;You  shouldn't  have  stopped  to  play.&quot;  Gwen  is  Sister  Monica's  model  pupil  for  punctuality,  neatness,  and  truthful-  ness.  Mamie  has  no  ground  to  answer  Gwen's  reproach  as  the  girl  starts  to  clamber  down  the  bank.  The  wood  is  dark  and  there  is  no  sound  of  the  dog.  Mamie  squelches  with  the  four  dogs  among  the  leaves  and  snow  lumps.  &quot;Fritzi-fritzi-fritzi  mitzi!l&quot;  A  bark,  a  yap,  behind  her.  Again  a  yap-yap.  She  turns  and  finds  the  dog  tied  once  more  to  a  tree.  Hamilton?  She  peers  all  around  her  and  sees  nobody.  She  should  be  hurrying  toward  the  drive,  but  she  is  too  tired  to  hurry.  The  Lodge  gates  are  still  open,  although  the  sky  looks  late.  The  lights  are  on  in  the  Lodge,  which  has  been  let  to  new  people  from  Liverpool  for  their  week-  ends.  They  are  having  a  long  weekend  this  time.  A  young  woman  comes  out  to  her  car  as  Mamie  comes  in  the  gate-  way  with  the  five  dogs.  &quot;Goodness,  you're  wet  through!&quot;  &quot;I  got  in  a  snowdrift.&quot;  &quot;Hurry  home  then,  dear,  and  get  changed.&quot;  MAMIE  cannot  hurry,  She  is  not  very  well  anymore,  like  old  Sir  Martin.  She  is  not  very  real  anymore.  The  color  of  the  afternoon  seems  strange  and  the  sky  is  banked  with  snowdrifts.  She  runs  in  little  spurts  only  in  obedience  to  the  pull  of  the  dogs.  But  she  draws  them  as  tight  as  she  can  and  plods  in  the  direction  of  the  House.  She  turns  to  the  right  when  she  reaches  the  wide  steps  and  thebig  front  doors.  Around  to  the  right  and  into  the  yard,  where  Hamilton's  door  is.  She  tries  to  open  his  door.  It  is  locked.  To  pull  the  bell  would  re-  quire  raising  her  arm,  and  she  is  too  tired  to  do  so.  She  tries  to  knock.  The  dogs  are  full  of  noise  and  anxiety,  are  scratching  the  door  to  get  inside.  She  looks  at  them  and  with  difficulty  switches  those  leads  in  her  right  hand  to  her  left,  winding  them  round  her  wrist,  since  the  hand  is  already  full.  While  she  knocks  with  her  free  hand  at  the  door,  she  realizes  that  she  has  noticed  something.  There  are  only  four  dogs  now.  She  counts-one,  two,  three,  four.  She  counts  the  leads-one,  two,  three,  four.  She  looks  away  again  and  knocks.  It  has  not  happened.  Nothing  has  happened.  It  is  not  real.  She  knocks  again.  Hamilton  is  coming.  &quot;Their  food's  in  there,&quot;  Hamilton  says,  not  looking  at  the  dogs  but  open-  ing  the  door  that  leads  from  his  room  to  another,  more  cluttered  room.  He  lets  the  dogs  scuttle  in  to  their  food  without  counting  them.  He  does  not  remove  their  leads  but  throws  them  onto  the  floor  to  trail  behind  them.  Finally,  he  shuts  the  inner  door  on  them.  He  sits  down  in  his  chair  and  looks  at  Mamic  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Come  here.&quot;  &quot;I've  got  to  go  home.&quot;  &quot;You're  wet  through.  Get  dry  by  the  fire  a  minute.  I'll  get  you  a  lift  home.&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  late.&quot;  He  pats  his  knee.  &quot;Sit  here,  dearie,  lass.&quot;  He  has  a  glass  and  a  bottle  by  " b"him.  &quot;I  want  to  give  you  a  drop.  Come  on.  I  don't  want  sex.&quot;  She  perches  on  his  lap.  He  has  not  counted  the  dogs.  Alice  Long  will  be  up  to  ninety-nine,  but  it's  Hamilton's  fault  from  now.  Hamilton  has  taken  the  dogs.  &quot;Now  sip.&quot;  She  recognizes  whiskey.  &quot;Take  a  good  swallow.&quot;  He  gives  her  a  lemon  drop  to  hide  her  breath,  then  gives  her  a  kiss  on  her  mouth  while  she  is  still  sucking  the  sweet.  &quot;I'm  going  now.  I  hope  the  dogs  are  all  right.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  the  dogs,  they're  all  right.&quot;  He  takes  her  hand  and  goes  to  find  one  of  the  workmen  who  are  mending  the  House.  Alice  Long  is  not  home  yet  from  her  meeting,  and  she  will  not  miss  the  workman  for  a  few  minutes.  Mamie  climbs  into  the  foreman's  car  beside  the  workman.  The  seat  is  covered  with  white  dust,  but  she  does  notbrush  it  off  the  seat  before  sliding  onto  it.  Her  clothes  will  be  spoiled.  She  feels  safe  beside  the  driver.  The  whis-  key  has  given  her  back  a  real  afternoon.  &quot;What's  the  time,  please?&quot;  she  asks.  &quot;About  twenty  past  four.&quot;  The  man  backs  and  turns.  Hamil-  ton  has  gone  into  his  quarters.  'The  car  skirts  the  House,  turning  by  the  large  new  clearing  where,  in  the  sum-  mer,  the  tourists'  coaches  come.  &quot;You  can't  get  many  up  here  in  [REDACTED].  They  all  swarm  to  the  old  houses  in  the  [REDACTED].  Here,  it's  out  of  the  way.  ...&quot;  &quot;Well,  if's  an  experience  for  those  who  do  come,  Miss  Long.  Especially  the  Catholics.&quot;  The  House  was  once  turned  intoa  hospital  for  the  wounded  English  sol-  diers  after  the  Battleof  Flodden,  which  the  English  won.  The  House  was  a  Mass  center  at  the  times  of  the  Catholic  Persecution.  Out-  side  the  armory,  there  is  a  chalice  in  a  glass  case  dating  from  Elizabethan  times.  It  has  been  sold  to  a  museum,  but  the  museum  allows  the  family  to  keep  it  at  the  House  during  Sir  Mar-  tin's  lifetime.  Mamie  has  been  inside  the  priest  hole,  where  the  priests  were  hidden  when  the  House  was  searched  for  priests;  they  would  sometimes  stay  there  several  days.  The  hole  is  alarge  space  behind  a  panel  that  comes  out  of  the  wall,  up  among  the  attics.  You  can  stand  in  the  priest  hole  and  look  up  at  the  beams,  where,  in  those  days,  food  was  always  stored  in  case  of  emergency.  The  workmen  are  mending  the  roof.  &quot;Did  you  see  the  priest  hole?&quot;  Mamie  feels  talkative.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  &quot;A  place  where  the  priests  used  to  hide,  up  in  the  roof.  It's  historic.  Haven't  you  seen  it?&quot;  &quot;No,  but  I  seen  plenty  dry  rot  up  there  in  that  roof.&quot;  The  gates  are  closed.  The  man  gets  out  to  open  them;  then  he  drives  off  again.  Is  it  possible  that  one  of  the  dogs  is  lost?  Mamie  is  confused.  There  must  have  been  five.  I  found  the  lost  one,  tied  to  the  tree.  But  then  she  sees  her-  self  again  counting  them  outside  Hamilton's  door.  One,  two,  three,  four.  Only  four.  No,  no,no,  it's  not  real.  Hamilton  has  taken  the  dogs.  It's  for  him  to  count.  The  workman  says,  &quot;Do  you  like  the  Beatles?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  they're  great.  Do  you  like  them?&quot;  &quot;So-so.  I'd  like  just  one  day's  earn-  ings  that  the  Beatles  get.  Just  one  day.  I  could  retire  on  it.&quot;  Sister  Monica  has  said  that  there  is  no  harm  in  the  Beatles,  and  then  Mamie  felt  indignant  because  it  showed  Sister  Monica  did  not  properly  appreciate  them.  She  ought  to  lump  them  together  with  things  like  whiskey,  smoking,  and sex;  the  Beatles  are  quite  good  enough  to  be  forbidden.  &quot;I  like  dancing,&quot;  Mamie  says.  &quot;Rock-'n'-roll  stuff?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  at  school  we  only  get  folk  dancing.  I'm  learning  the  sword  dance.  It's  historic  in  the  Border  country.&quot;  LL  the  rest  of  the  week,  she  hur-  ries  home  from  school  to  see  if  Alice  Long  has  been  to  see  her  mother  about  the  missing  dog.  I  counted.  One,  two,  three,  four.  But  I  had  five  when  I  left  the  wood.  I  brought  five  out  of  the  wood,  and  up  the  hill.  I  had  five  at  the  Lodge.  I  must  have  had.  .  ..  Alice  Long  will  be  up  to  ninety-  nine.  She  will  come  to  Mamie's  house  to  make  inquiries:  &quot;Hamilton  says  sheonly  brought  four.  ...  &quot;Hamilton  says  he  didn't  count  them,  he  just  took  the  leads  from  her  hand.  ...  &quot;Hamilton  must  have  been  drinking  and  let  one  of  them  slip  out  of  the  door.  ...  &quot;IP've  only  just  counted  them.  One  must  have  been  missing  since  Monday.  When  Mamie  .  ..&quot;  By  Friday,  Alice  Long  has  not  come.  Mamie's  mother  says,  &quot;Alice " b"Long  hasn't  dropped  in.  I  must  take  a  pie  up  to  the  House  on  Monday  and  see  what's  doing.&quot;  On  Sunday  afternoon,  Alice  Long's  car  stops  at  the  door.  &quot;Come  in,  Miss  Long,  come  in.  Have  you  no  family  down  this  weekend?&quot;  Mamie's  father  shuts  away  the  tele-  vision,  puts  on  his  coat,  says  good  after-  noon,  and  goes  upstairs.  Alice  Long  sits  trembling  on  the  sofa  beside  Mamie  while  her  mother  puts  on  the  tea.  She  says,  &quot;It's  Hamilton.&quot;  &quot;The  same  thing  again?&quot;  &quot;No,  worse.  A  tragedy.&quot;  Alice  Long  shuts  her  lips  tight  and  pats  Mamie's  hair.  Her  hand  is  shaking.  &quot;Mamie,  go  out  and  play,&quot;  says  her  mother.  When  Alice  Long  has  driven  her  car  away,  Mamie  comes  in  with  the  ends  of  her  skipping  rope  twined  around  her  gloves.  Her  father  comes  down,  takes  off  his  coat,  and  opens  up  the  television.  &quot;Oh,  don't  turn  it  on,&quot;  says  her  mother,  in  anguish.  Mamie  eats  some  of  the  remnants  of  cake  and  sandwiches  while  she  listens.  &quot;Hanging  in  the  priest  hole-all  of  them.  She  looked  for  them  all  night.  Hamilton's  gone,  cleared  off.  It's  the  drink.  The  police  have  got  a  war-  rant  out.  They  were  found  hanged  on  the  beams  after  Mass  this  morning.  Didn't  I  say  poor  Alice  Long  was  looking  bad  at  Mass?  I  thought  it  must  be  her  father  again.  But  she'd  been  up  all  night  looking  for  the  dogs,  and  at  Mass  she  still  didn't  know  where  they  were.  It  was  after  Mass  they  found  them,  herself  and  Mrs.  Huddlestone.  Think  of  the  sight!  Five  of  them  hang-  ing  in  a  row.  Poor  little  beasts.  Hamil-  ton  disappeared  yesterday.  They'll  get  him,  though,  just  wait.&quot;  &quot;He's  a  bit  of  a  lunatic,&quot;  Mamie's  father  says.  &quot;Lunatic!  He's  vicious.  He  ought  to  be  hung  himself.  They  were  all  Alice  Long  had.  But  he'll  be  caught!&quot;  Her  father  says,  &quot;I  doubt  it.  Not  Hamilton.  Even  the  roebuck  called  him  Pussyfoot.&quot;  He  laughs  at  his  own  joke.  Her  mother  turns  away  her  head.  Mamie  says,  &quot;How  many  were  hanging  in  the  priest  hole?&quot;  &quot;All  of  them  in  a  row.&quot;  &quot;How  many?&quot;  &quot;Five.  You  know  she  had  five.  You  took  them  out,  didn't  you?&quot;  Mamie  says,  &quot;I  was  only  wonder-  ing  if  there  was  room  for  five  in  the  priest  hole.  Did  she  really  say  there  were  five?  It  wasn't  four?&quot;  &quot;She  said  all  five  of  them.  What  are   you  talking  about,  no  room  in  the  priest  hole?  There's  plenty  room.  He'd  have  killed  six  if  she'd  had  six.  She  was  so  good  to  him.&quot;  &quot;A  shocking  affair,&quot;  says  her  father.  Mamie  feels  weightless  as  daylight.  She  waves  her  arms  as  if  they  are  freed  ofa  huge  harness.  &quot;Five  of  them.&quot;  I  counted  wrong.  I  didn't  lose  one.  There  were  five. She  skips  over  to  fetch  the  shining  brass  pokers  from  the  fender  and  places  them  crisscross  on  the  linoleum  to  prac-  tice  her  sword  dance.  Then  she  starts  to  dance,  heel-and-toe,  heel-and-toe,  over-and-across,  one-two-three,one-  two-three.  Her  mother  stands  amazed  and  is  about  to  say  stop  it  at  once,  this  is  no  time  to  practice,  children  have  no  heart,  Alice  Long  pays  your  school  fees  and  I  thought  you  loved  animals.  But  her  father  is  clapping  his  hands  in  time  to  her  dancing-one-two-three,  heel-and-toe,  hand-on-hip,  right-hand,  left-hand,  cross-and-back.  Then  her  father  starts  to  sing  as  well,  loudly,  tara  rum-tum-tum,  tara  rum-tum-tum,  clapping  his  hands  while  she  dances  the  jig,  and  there  isn't  a  thing  anyone  can  do  about  it.  "