 b"METAL,  strictly,  has  no  taste;  M  its  presence  in  the  mouth  is  felt  as  disciplinary,  as  a  No  spoken  to  other  tastes.  When  Richard  Maple,  after  thirty  years  of  twinges,  jagged  edges,  and  occasional  extractions,  had  all  his  remaining  molars  capped  and  bridges  shaped  across  the  gaps,  the  gold  felt  chilly  to  his  cheeks  and  its  regulari-  ty  masked  holes  and  roughnesses  that  had  been  a  kind  of  mirror  wherein  his  tongue  had  known  itself.  The  Friday  of  the  final  cementing,  he  went  to  a  small  party.  As  he  drank  a  variety  of  liquids  that  tasted  much  the  same,  he  moved  from  feeling  slightly  less  than  himself  (his  native  teeth  had  been  ground  to  stumps  of  dentine)  to  feeling  slightly  more.  The  shift  in  tonality  that  permeated  his  skull  whenever  his  jaws  closed  corresponded,  perhaps,  to  the  heightened  clarity  that  fills  the  mind  after  a  religious  conversion.  He  saw  his  companions  at  the  party  with  a  new  brilliance,  a  sharpness  of  vision  that,  like  a  camera's,  was  specific  and  restricted  in  focus.  He  could  see  only  one  person  at  a  time,  and  found  himself  focussing  less  on  his  wife  Joan  than  on  Eleanor  Den-  nis,  the  long-legged  wife  ofa  munici-  pal-bond  salesman.  Eleanor's  distinctness  in  part  had  to  do  with  the  legal  fact  that  she  and  her  husband  were  &quot;separated.&quot;  It  had  hap-  pened  recently;  his  absence  from  the  party  was  noticeable.  Eleanor,  in  the  course  of  a  life  that  she  had  described  as  a  series  of  harrowing  survivals,  had  devel-  oped  the  horsy  social  manner  that  converts  private  catastrophe  into  public  humorousness;  but  tonight  her  agita-  tion  was  imperfect-  ly  converted.  She  lis-  tened  as  if  for  an  echo  that  wasn't  there,  and  twitchily  crossed  and  recrossed  her  legs.  Her  legs  were  handsome  and  vivid  and  so  long  that,  after  midnight,  when  parlor  games  be-  gan,  she  hitched  up  her  miniskirt  and  kicked  the  lintel  ofa  door-  frame.  The  host  bal-  anced  a  glass  of  water  on  his  forehead.  Rich-  ard,  demonstrating  a  headstand,  mistakenly  tumbled  forward,  de-  lighted  at  his  own  soft-  ness,  which  seemed  an  ironical  comment  upon  flesh  that  his  immaculate  teeth  were  making.  He  was  all  mortality,  all  porous  erosion  save  for  these  stars  in  his  head,  an  impervious  polar  cluster  at  the  zenith  of  his  slow  whirling.  His  wife  came  to  him  with  a  face  as  neat  and  unscarred  as  the  face  of  a  clock.  It  was  time  to  go  home.  And  Eleanor  needed  a  ride.  The  three  of  them,  plus  the  hostess  in  her  bangle  ear-  rings  and  coffee-stained  culottes,  went  to  the  door,  and  discovered  a  snow-  storm.  As  far  as  the  eye  could  probe,  flakes  were  falling  in  a  jostling  crowd  through  the  whispering  lavender  night.  &quot;God  bless  us,  every  one,&quot;  Richard  said.  The  hostess  suggested  that  Joan  should  drive.  Richard  kissed  her  on  the  check  and  tasted  the  metal  of  her  bitter  carring  and  got  in  behind  the  wheel.  His  car  was  a  brand-new  Mustang;  he  wouldn't  dream  of  trusting  anyone  else  to  drive  it.  Joan  crawled  into  the  back  seat,  grunt-  ing  to  emphasize  the  physical  awkward-  ness,  and  Eleanor  serenely  arranged  her  coat  and  pocketbook  and  legs  in  the  space  beside  him.  The  motor  sprang  alive.  Richard  felt  resiliently  cush-  ioned.  Eleanor  was  beside  him,  Joan  behind  him,  God  above  him,  the  road  beneath  him.  The  fast-falling  snow  dipped  brilliant-explosive,  chrysanthe-  mumesque-into  the  headlights.  On  a  small  hill  the  tires  spun-a  loose,  reas-  suring  noise,  like  the  slither  of  a  raincoat.  In  the  knobbed  darkness  lit  by  the  green  speed  gauge,  Eleanor,  showing  a  lot  of  knee,  talked  at  length  of  her  separated  husband.  &quot;You  have  no  idea,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you  two  are  so  shel-  tered  you  have  no  idea  what  men  are  capable  of.  I  didn't  know  myself.  I  don't  mean  to  sound  ungracious,  he  gave  me  nine  reasonable  years  and  I  wouldn't  dream  of  punishing  him  with  the  children's  visiting  hours  the  way  some  women  would,  but  that  men!  You  know  what  he  had  the  crust  to  tell  me?  He  actually  told  me  that  when  he  was  with  another  woman  he'd  some-  times  close  his  eyes  and  pretend  it  was  me.&quot;  &quot;Sometimes,&quot;  Richard  said.  His  wife  behind  him  said,  &quot;Darley,  are  you  aware  that  the  road  is  slip-  pery?&quot;  &quot;That's  the  shine  of  the  headlights,&quot;  he  told  her.  Eleanor  crossed  and  recrossed  her  legs.  Half  the  length  ofa  thigh  flared  in  the  intimate  green  glow.  She  went  on,  &quot;And  his  trips.  I  wondered  why  the  same  city  was  always  putting  out  bond  issues,  I  began  to  feel  sorry  for  the  mayor,  I  thought  they  were  going  bankrupt.  Looking  back  at  myself,  I  was  so  good,  so  wrapped  up  in  the  chil-  dren  and  the  house,  always  on  the  phone  to  the  contractor  or  the  plumber  or  the  gas  company  trying  to  get  the  new  kitchen  done  in  time  for  Thanks-  giving  when  his  silly,  silly  mother  was  coming  to  visit.  About  once  a  day  I'd  sharpen  the  carving  knife.  Thank  God  that  phase  of  my  life  is  over.  I  went  to  his  mother  for  sympathy  I  suppose  and  very  indig-  nantly  she  asked  me,  What  had  I  done  to  her  boy?  The  chil-  dren  and  I  had  tuna-  fish  sandwiches  by  our-  selves  and  it  was  the  first  Thanksgiving  I've  ever  enjoyed,  frankly.&quot;  &quot;I  always  have  trou-  ble,&quot;  Richard  told  her,  &quot;finding  the  joint.&quot;  Joan  said,  &quot;Darley,  you  know  you're  com-  ing  to  that  terrible  .s  curve?&quot;  '  &quot;You  should  see  my  father-in-law  carve.  Snick,  snap,  snap,  snick.  Your  blood  runs  cold.&quot;  &quot;On  my  birthday,  my  birthday,&quot;  Eleanor  said,  accidentally  kick-  ing  the  heater,  &quot;the  " b"bastard  was  with  his  little  dolly  in  a  restaurant,  and  he  told  me,  he  solemn-  ly  told  me-men  are  incredible-he  told  me  he  ordered  cake  for  dessert.  That  was  his  tribute  to  me.  The  night  he  confessed  all  this,  it  was  the  end  of  the  world,  but  I  had  to  laugh.  I  asked  him  if  he'd  had  the  restaurant  put  a  candle  on  the  cake.  He  told  me  he'd  thought  of  it  but  hadn't  had  the  guts.&quot;  Richard's  responsive  laugh  was  held  in  suspense  as  thecar  skidded  on  the  curve.  A  dark  upright  shape  had  ap-  peared  in  the  center  of  the  windshield,  and  he  tried  to  remove  it,  but  the  automobile  proved  impervious  to  the  steer-  ing  wheel  and  instead  drew  closer,  as  if  magnetized,  to  a  telephone  pole  that  rigidly  insisted  on  its  position  in  the  center  of  the  windshield,  The  pole  en-  larged.  The  little  splinters  pricked  by  the  linemen's  cleats  leaped  forward  in  the  headlights,  and  there  was  a  flat  whack  surprisingly  unambiguous,  con-  sidering  how  casually  it  had  happened.  Richard  felt  the  sudden  refusal  of  motion,  the  No,  and  knew,  though  his  mind  was  deeply  cushioned  in  a  cottony  indifference,  that  an  event  had  oc-  curred  which  in  another  incarnation  he  would  regret.  \xe2\x80\x9cY  OU  jerk,&quot;  Joan  said.  Her  voice  was  against  his  ear.  &quot;Your  pretty  new  car.&quot;  She  asked,  &quot;Eleanor,  are  you  all  right?&quot;  With  a  rising  inflection  she  repeated,  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;  It  sounded  like  scolding.  Eleanor  giggled  softly,  embarrassed.  &quot;I'm  fine,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;except  that  I  can't  seem  to  move  my  legs.&quot;  The  " b"windshield  near  her  head  had  become  a  web  of  light,  an  exploded  star.  Either  the  radio  had  been  on  or  had  turned  itself  on,  for  mellow,  meditating  music  flowed  from  a  realm  behind  time.  Richard  identified  it  as  one  of  Handel's  oboe  sonatas.  He  noticed  that  his  knees  distantly  hurt.  Eleanor  had  slid  forward  and  seemed  unable  to  uncross  her  legs.  Shockingly,  she  whimpered.  Joan  asked,  &quot;Sweetheart,  didn't  you  know  you  were  going  too  fast?&quot;  &quot;I  am  very  stupid,&quot;  he  said.  Music  and  snow  poured  down  upon  them,  and  he  imagined  that,  if  only  the  oboe  sonata  were  played  backwards,  they  would  leap  backwards  from  the  telephone  pole  and  be  on  their  way  home  again.  The  little  distances  to  their  houses,  measured  in  minutes,  had  frozen  and  become  immense,  eternal,  galactic.  Using  her  hands,  Eleanor  uncrossed  her  legs  and  brought  herself  upright  in  her  seat.  She  lit  a  cigarette.  Richard,  his  knees  creaking,  got  out  of  the  car  and  tried  to  push  it  free.  He  told  Joan  to  come  out  of  the  back  seat  and  get  behind  the  wheel.  Their  motions  were  clumsy,  as  if  they  were  amphibians  wriggling  in  and  out  of  darkness.  The  headlights  still  burned,  but  the  beams  were  bent  inward,  toward  each  other.  The  car'sface,  an  unimpassioned  in-  sect's  face,  was  inextricably  curved  around  the  pole;  the  bumper  had  be-  come  locked  mandibles.  When  he  pushed  and  Joan  fed  gas,  the  wheels  whined  in  a  vacuum.  The  smooth  en-  circling  night  extended  around  them,  above  and  beyond  the  snow.  No  win-  dow  light  had  acknowledged  their  acci-  dent.  Their  immobility  and  isolation  were  unblemished.  Joan,  who  had  a  social  conscience,  asked,  &quot;Why  doesn't  anybody  come  out  and  help  us?&quot;  Eleanor  answered,  &quot;This  pole  is  hit  so  often  it's  just  a  nuisance  to  the  neigh-  borhood.&quot;  Richard  announced,  &quot;I'm  too  drunk  to  face  the  police.&quot;  The  remark  hung  with  a  neon  clarity  in  the  night.  A  car  went  by,  slowed,  stopped.  A  win-  dow  rolled  down  and  revealed  a  fright-  ened  male  voice.  &quot;Everything  O.K.?&quot;  &quot;Not  entirely,&quot;  Richard  said.  He  was  pleased  by  his  powers,  under  stress,  of  exact  expression.  &quot;I  can  take  somebody  to  a  telephone.  I'm  on  my  way  back  from  a  poker  game.&quot;  A  lie,  Richard  reasoned-otherwise,  why  advance  it?  The  boy's  face  had  the  blurred  pallor  of  the  sexually  drained.  Taking  care  to  give  each  word  weight,  Richard  told  him,  &quot;One  ofus  can't  move  and  I  better  stay  with  her.  If  you  way  back  when  I  was  in  a  could  take  my  wife  to  a  phone,  we'd  all  be  most  grateful.&quot;  &quot;Who  do  I  call?&quot;  Joan  asked.  Richard  hesitated  between  the  party  they  had  left,  their  baby-sitter  at  home,  and  Eleanor's  husband,  who  was  living  in  a  motel  on  [REDACTED].  The  boy  answered  for  him:  &quot;The  police.&quot;  In  the  manner  of  Iphigenia  redeem-  ing  the  becalmed  fleet  at  Aulis,  Joan  got  into  the  stranger's  car,  a  revved-up  Mercury.  The  car  faded  through  the  snow,  which  was  slackening.  The  storm  had  been  just  a  flurry,  an  illusion  con-  jured  to  administer  this  one  rebuke.  Richard's  knees  felt  as  if  icicles  were  be-  ing  pressed  against  the  soft  spot  beneath  the  caps,  where  the  doctor's  hammer  searches  for  a  reflex.  He  got  in  behind  the  wheel  again,  and  switched  off  the  lights.  He  switched  off  the  ignition.  Eleanor's  cigarette  glowed.  Though  his  system  was  still  adrift  in  liquor,  he  could  not  quite  forget  the  taste  of  metal  in  his  teeth.  That  utterly  flat  No:  through  several  dreamlike  thicknesses  something  very  hard  had  touched  him.  Once,  swimming  in  surf,  he  had  been  sucked  under  by  a  large  wave.  Tons  of  slow  surge  had  enclosed  him  and,  with  an  implacable  downward  shrug,  thrust  him  deep  into  dense  green  bitterness  and  stripped  him  of  weight;  his  struggling  became  nothing,  he  was  nothing  within  the  wave.  There  had  been  no  hatred.  The  wave  simply  hadn't  cared.  He  triedto  apologize  to  the  woman  beside  him  in  the  darkness.  She  said,  &quot;Oh,  please.  I'm  sure  noth-  ing's  broken.  At  the  worst  I'll  be  on  crutches  for  a  few  days.&quot;  She  laughed  and  added,  &quot;This  just  isn't  my  year.&quot;  &quot;Does  it  hurt?&quot;  &quot;No,  not  at  all.&quot;  You're  probably  in  shock.  You'll  be  cold.  I'll  get  the  heat  back.&quot;  Richard  was  sobering,  and  an  infinite  drabness  was  dawning  for  him.  Never  again,  never  ever,  would  his  carbe  new,  would  he  chew  on  his  own  enamel,  would  she  kick  so  high  with  vivid  long  legs.  He  turned  the  ignition  back  onand  started  up  the  motor,  for  warmth.  The  radio  softly  returned,  still  Handel.  Moving  from  the  hips  up  with  sur-  prising  strength,  Eleanor  turned  and  embraced  him.  Her  cheeks  were  wet;  her  lipstick  tasted  manufactured.  Search-  ing  for  her  waist,  for  the  smallness  of  her  breasts,  he  fumbled  through  thick-  nesses  of  cloth.  They  were  still  in  each  other's  arms  when  the  whirling  blue  light  of  the  police  car  broke  upon  them.  "