 b"WHENEVER  I  get  a  phone  call  at  the  office  from  Charlie  Burs-  by,a  glum,  sad-eyed  friend  of  mine,  I  know  what  to  expect.  He  wants  to  meet  for  a  couple  of  after-  work  drinks  so  that  he  can  pass  on  to  me  his  latest  thoughts,  none  cheerful,  on  life,  death,  Democrats,  and  the  de-  cline  ofthe  West.  Two  drinks  with  Charlie  and  I'm  down  in  the  dumps  for  days,  but  I'm  nonetheless  oddly  fond  of  him,  and  when  he  called  one  afternoon  last  week,  after  not  having  been  in  touch  since  before  Christmas,  I  agreed  withonly  slight  reluctance  to  get  together  at  five-thirty  in  a  West  Forty-fourth  Street  bar  where  we'd  often  met  before.  I  was  ten  minutes  late,  running  in  out  ofa  chill  rain  to  find  Charlie  sitting  alone  at  the  end  of  the  bar,  stumped  over  a  Martini  and  looking,  if  possible,  even  more  melancholy  and  hangdog  than  usual.  Curiously,  Charlie's  clothes,  even  though  I  suspect  he  pays  a  good  deal  for  them,  never  seem  to  fit,  and  he  was  wearing  an  English  tweed  jacket  that  was  at  least  three  sizes  too  large  for  him.  His  hair,  too,  which  somehow  never  looks  combed,  was  sticking  out  wildly  in  every  direction,  and  the  frames  of  his  glasses,  I  noticed,  were  taped  together  in  the  middle  with  a  Band-Aid.  Settling  on  the  bar  stool  next  to  his,  I  imagined,  as  I  often  do  with  Charlie,  that  stamped  across  his  forehead,  just  as  certain  packages  are  marked  &quot;FRAGILE,&quot;  word  &quot;rosER.&quot;  &quot;So  how's  it  going,  Charlie?&quot;  I  asked,  trying  to  sound  cheery.  &quot;The  same  as  always,&quot;  he  said,  shak-  ing  his  head.  &quot;No  good.&quot;  Signalling  to  the  bartender  to  bring  me  the  same-a  Martini-I  asked  Charlie  what  was  bothering  him,  and  he  heaved  a  deep  sigh.  &quot;Well,  you  know  me,&quot;  he  began,  gazing  gloomily  down  at  his  drink.  &quot;I'mwhat  you  call  a  brooder-always  able  to  see  the  darker  side  of  things,  and  ever  since  the  first  of  the  year  I've  been  brooding  over  some  black  thoughts  that  hit  me  while  I  was  reading  Time's  Man  of  the  Year  cover  story.  You  re-  member  who  they  chose?&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;A  collective  Man  of  the  Year,&quot;  Charlie  went  on,  taking  a  thoughtful  sip  of  his  Martini.  &quot;Every  damn  kid  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  under  the  age  of  twenty-six.  According  to  Time,  they're  the  Now  Generation.  Intelligent,  con-  cerned,  enthusiastic,  the  brightest  and  most  articulate  generation  of  young  was  the  single  people  that  this  country  has  ever  produced.  A  vital  goddam  force  in  contemporary  American  society.  Ah,  Christ.  Well,  O.K.,  I  guess  I  have  to  accept  that-these  kids  today  arepretty  'hep  to  the  jive,&quot;  as  [REDACTED]  used  to  say  to  Jughead  in  that  comic  strip.  While  I  was  reading  the  Man  of  the  Year  story,  though,  I  happened  to  remem-  ber  a  Time  cover  story  that  1d  seen  last  summer-something  about  the  pleasures  and  perils  of  middle  age.  In  that  one,  Time  said  that  the  people  who  really  run  the  United  [REDACTED]--political-  ly,  financially,  artistically,  and  other-  wise-are  those  between  the  ages  of  forty  and  sixty.  They're  an  In  crowd  that  Time  chose  to  call  the  Command  Generation.  Over  there  at  Time-Life,  there's  nothing  they  like  better  than  gathering  up  forty  million  miscella-  neous  Americans  and  jamming  them  all  into  the  same  upper-case  pigeonhole.  Lyndon  Johnson  and  Robert  McNa-  mara  are  between  forty  and  sixty,  Time  said,  in  support  of  its  theory.  Well,  you  can't  fight  logic  like  that-  Johnson  and  McNamara  are  in  com-  mand,  all  right.  O.K.,  back  in  July  I  accepted  the  Command  Generation.  It  took  an  effort,  believe  me,  but  I  ac-  cepted.  But  it  was  putting  the  Com-  mand  Generation  and  the  Now  Gener-  ation  together  that  got  me  brooding.  As  you  may  remember,  I'm  thirty-  eight,  and  you  can  see  where  that  leaves  me-too  old  for  Now  and  too  young  for  Command.  So  what  I  want  to  know  is  where  do  I  fit  into  the  con-  temporary  American  picture?  I  think  I'm  having  one  of  those  nervous-break-  down  things-what  Time  calls  a  'crisis  of  identity.&quot;  &quot;  I  started  to  tell  Charlie  that  he  seemed  fine  to  me,  or  at  least  no  worse  than  usual,  but  he  turned  away  to  order  another  Martini  and  then  broke  in  with  a  question:  &quot;You're  over  forty-  right?&quot;  &quot;Well,  just  barely.&quot;  &quot;You're  in  Command-right?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  don't  feel-&quot;  &quot;It's  all  right,  you  don't  have  to  apologize,&quot;  he  said,  heaving  yet  another  sigh.  &quot;You're  in  Command.  You're  In.  And  so  is  everyone  over  sixty-they're  members  of  what  I've  heard  called  the  Caretaker  Generation.  In  other  words,  that  leaves  only  those  of  us  who  are  between  twenty-six  and  thirty-  nine  out  in  the  cold.  Absolutely  no-  where.  Dead.  Nothingsville.  Now,  I've  been  doing  a  lot  of  thinking  about  my  in-between  crowd,  at  the  awkward  age,  now  in  its  thirties.  Time  seems  to  hold  on  to  theold  idea  that  a  genera-  tion  is  more  or  less  twenty  years  long,  but  I  think  that  generations,  like  every-  thing  else  these  days,  have  shrunk  down  in  size.  I  think  a  generation  now  measures  about  seves  years.  Any  way,  I've  decided  that  I  belong  to  a  mini-  generation  that  is  made  up  of  everyone  from  thirty-two  to  thirty-nine,  and  it's  this  bunch  that  I'm  worried  about.  Those  younger,  post-Pepsi  types  be-  tween  twenty-six  and  thirty-one  will  just  have  to  work  out  their  own  iden-  " b"tities.  But  who  are  we?  Who  am  I?&quot;  \n\n &quot;Look  at  it  this  way,&quot;  I  suggested,  trying  to  be  helpful.  &quot;In  two  years,  you'll  be  in  Command  and  your  trou-  bles  will  be  over.&quot;  &quot;But  that's  just  it,  they  wor't  be,&quot;  Charlie  said,  mournfully  shaking  his  head.  &quot;By  then,  it  won't  be  calledthe  Command  Generation  anymore. \n\nlications,  had  time  to  think  about   mean,  whenever Iarrive  at  an  age,  it  somehow  stops  being  an  age.  I  was  never  in  the  Younger  Generation,  for  instance,  but  just  one  of  the  kids  under-  foot.  All  of  us  who  are  in  our  thirties  today  were  young  in  the  Depression,  when  no  one,  not  even  the  Luce  pub-  things  like  generations.  If  anything,  we  were  the  Shut-  up-  while-  your-  father-  tries  -  to  -  think  -  of  -  a  -  way  -  to  -  make  -  the-payments-on-the-De  Soto  Genera-  tion.  So  we  shut  up,  and  sat  quietly  in  a  corner  listening  to  Uncle  Don  and  playing  with  our  Lincoln  Logs.&quot;  " b"&quot;I  did  that,  too,&quot;  I  said,  in  an  attempt  to  keep  him  company.  Charlie  plunged  on.  &quot;Later,  we  weren't  the  Teen-Age  Generation,  cither.  By  the  time  we  got  to  be  teen-agers,  World  War  II  was  on,  and  no  one  had  time  to  think  about  us  or  our  identity.  If  anything,  we'd  become  the-the  Shut  -  up  -  while  -  your  -  father  -  is-  listening  -to  -  Edward  -  R.  -  Murrow  Generation.  So  we  rolled  the  goddam  tin-  foil  from  packages  of  Chesterfields  into  enor-  mous  balls  and  waited  around  \xc2\xa301&quot;  someone  to  notice  us.&quot;  From  his  tone,  there  might  have  been  a  lump  in  his  throat,  but  he  glumly  brushed  aside  the  consoling  bow!  of  salted  peanuts  I  offered  him.  &quot;Finally,  after  the  war,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;we  managed  not  to  be  the  College  Generation.  By  the  time  we  got  to  col-  lege,  the  quadrangles  were  jam-packed  with  returning  war  veterans  in  their  field  jackets,  and  it  was  them,  and  not  us,  who  were  the  campus  leaders  and  who  set  the  tone  of  my  college  years.  If  anything,  we  were  now  the  Shut  -  up  -  while  -  an  -  ace  -  former  -  B-17  -  pilot  -  gives  -  an  -  intelligent  -  answer  -  to  -  that  -  question  Generation.  As  a  result,  we  were  so  cowed  that  it  never  occurred  to  us  to  picket  for  civil  rights,  protest  American  foreign  policy,  let  our  hair  grow  to  our  shoulders,  or  do  any  other  showoffy  thing  that  might  have  rocked  the  boat  and  made  Time  notice  115,\xe2\x80\x9d  Charlie  paused,  remembering  some-  thing,  and  held  up  one  finger.  &quot;Ah,  there  was  something,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;There  were  a  few  minutes  back  there,  when  we  were  in  our  early  twenties,  when  Time  paid  some  attention  to  us.  They  must  have  suddenly  realized  that  we'd  never  had  anything  much  to  say  for  ourselves  about  anything-so  they  be-  gan  calling  us  the  Silent  Generation.  How  do  you  like  thet?  But  is  it  any  wonder  that  we  were  silent,  after  all  those  years  of  being  told  to  shut  up?  Anyway,  we  were  only  called  the  Si-  lent  Generation  for  a  little  while-it  scemed  like  a  couple  of  weeks-and  then  we  were  forgotten  again.  Henry  Luce  left  us  on  our  own  to  find  jobs,  get  married,  have  children,  move  to  the  suburbs,  and  all,  and  that's  what  we've  been  doing  for  the  past  fifteen  years,  without  being  noticed  againby  Time,  Life,  Newsweek,  or  even  U8.  News  &amp;  World  Report.  And  I'll  bet  they  never  notice  us  again,  as  we  drift  through  life,  forever  and  forever  outof  the  main-  stream  of  American  society-just  a  floating,  ageless  void.  I  remember  once  reading  a  review  ofa  play  about  Na-  poleon,  and  the  critic  said  that  the  actor  who  played  Napoleon,  poor  bastard,  was  at  the  same  t'me  too  short  for  the  role  and  too  tall.  And  that's  us  today-  too  young  and  too  old!&quot;  CHARLIE  blew  his  nose,  looked  at  his  watch,  and  told  me  he'd  have  to  be  on  his  way  to  catch  his  train  to  Old  Greenwich.  While  we  were  leaving,  though,  he  went  on.  &quot;Don't  get  me  wrong,&quot;  he  said,  fumbling  into  his  oversize  overcoat.  &quot;I'm  not  especially  defending  my  mini-generation.  All  in  all,  I  suppose,  we're  a  fairly  dull  bunch.  Lately,  in  fact,  I've  sometimes  thought  of  myself  as  living  in  a  drafty  house  in  some  creepy  development,  a  house  filled  with  the  most  tedious  people  imagi-  nable,  while  on  one  side  of  me  lives  Command,  where  the  party  is  going  full  swing-Lauren  Bacall  doing  the  Watusi  with  Sol  Linowitz,  Frank  Si-  natra  singing  Strangers  in  the  Night  to  Art  Buchwald,  Saul  Bellow  chitchat-  ting  away  with  David  Merrick,  David  Rockefeller,  and  David  Ogilvy-and  on  the  other  side  of  me  lives  Now,  where  an  even  more  swinging  party  is  going  on-hordes  of  affluent,  nitty-  gritty,  clear-thinking  kids  doing  the  Frug  with  other  hordes  of  committed,  upbeat,  well-informed  blondes  to  the  goddam  music  of  the  Buffalo  Spring  field,  the  Beach  Boys,  and  What's  Their-Name  ...  the  Supremes.  You  can  bet  that  none  of  us  in  our  thirties  were  invited  to  either  party,  and  it's  a  cinch  we'll  never  be  invited  to  any  in  the  future,  even  when  we're  in  our  forties  or  fifties,  You  know,  come  to  think  of  it,  I've  finally  decided  who  we  are-we're  the  goddam  Left-Out  Gen-  eration.&quot;  By  this  time,  we  were  standing  on  the  sidewalk  outside  the  bar,  where  the  rain  was  still  coming  down,  a  cold,  West  Side  drizzle.  Trying  to  think  of  something  to  say  that  might  buck  up  left-out  Charlie,  I  suddenly  came  up  with  a  couple  of  lines  from  Ecclesiastes.  &quot;'One  generation  passeth  away,  and  another  generation  cometh,'&quot;  I  said,  perhaps  a  bit  pompously,  &quot;  'but  the  earth  abideth  forever,  and  the  sun  also  riseth.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Not  for  us,  it  doesn't,&quot;  Charlie  said  woefully.  &quot;For  us,  the  rain  it  raineth  like  hell  every  day.&quot;  And,  with  a  for-  lorn  wave,  he  shambled  off  toward  Grand  Central,  hunching  his  coat  col-  lar  up  around  his  neck  as  a  passing  taxi  flicked  on  its  &quot;Off  Duty&quot;  sign. "