 b"There  were  some  good  art  exhibitions  [at  the  Edinburgh  Festival]  ...and  a  large  showing  of  Corot,  a  painter's  painter  and  en  masse  rather  drained  of  light  (or  perhaps  too  many  grey  haired  ladies  in  tweeds  between  you  and  them).  In  the  lift  in  my  hotel  a  complete  stranger  from  [REDACTED]  said,  &quot;Taken  in  the  crows?&quot;  She  meant  Corot  and  accented  the  last  syllable  to  the  loss  of  the  first  vowel.  We  got  it  straight  in  time  for  me  to  say  as  she  disappeared  on  to  her  floor,  &quot;Here  today  and  gone  to  Corot,&quot;  which  may  not  have  improved  international  relations  but  was  irresistible-Manchester  Guardian  W  eekly.  ALMNESS  above  all,  I  tell  my-  C  self-I  must  under  no  circum-  stances  succumb  to  childish  fury.  Yet  why  not?  The  whole  thing  is  so  absolutely  galling,  so  diminishing,  that  I  can  hardly  bring  myself  to  record  it,  and,  of  course,  never  would  if  Ayscough,  my  solicitor,  hadn't  insisted.  The  old  fossil  obviously  is  too  pot-  ters  to  understand  the  simplest  facts;  not  once,  despite  my  detailed  explana-  tion,  did  he  grasp  what  a  shattering  experience  I'd  been  through  or  intimate  whether  we  could  recover  damages  for  the  mental  and  physical  anguish  I  sustained.  Well,  inveighing  against  the  legal  mind  is  a  footling  enough  pur-  suit,  I  suppose.  I  may  as  well  narrate  the  events  to  delineate,  if  nothing  else,  the  lengths  to  which  women  will  resort  to  wreak  their  vindictiveness.  I  daresay  several  of  my  older  col-  leagues  on  the  Scrutator  bristled  when  Tither-  adge,  the  features  chief,  assigned  me  to  cover  the  big  Post-Impressionist  show  in  [REDACTED],  but  they  knew  in  their  hearts  I  was  the  only  possi-  ble  choice.  True,  I  was  the  youngest  on  the  staff,  newly  down  from  Oxford,  and  a  novice  by  Fleet  Street  stand-  ards;  still,  wherever  you  went-Annabel's,  the  Caprice,  the  Mirabelle-  people  kept  calling  my  art  reviews  the  most  au-  thoritative  in  [REDACTED],  reported  our  circulation  soaring  to  the  skies,  li-  onized  me  all  over  the  place.  As  Mummy  said,  &quot;Stop  being  an  ostrich,  dear  boy-you've  tak-  en  [REDACTED]  by  storm.  Everyone  lives  for  your  Friday  column.  They're  using  words  like  Ruskin  and  Berenson.&quot;  To  be  sure,  the  Mater  would  exaggerate,  owning  eighty  per  cent  of  the  paper's  shares,  but  none-     theless  it  indicated  which  way  the  wind  was  blowing.  At  any  rate,  there  I  was  at  the  Jeu  de  Paume  in  [REDACTED],  undergoing,  be-  tween  ourselves,  a  frightful  attack  of  d\xc3\xa9ja  vu.  There  wasn't  a  single  sur-  prise-just  the  same  shopworn  canvases  I'd  known  from  nursery  days,  and,  in-  deed,  I  had  the  very  sensation  of  ennui  that  old  Chatterbox  annuals  used  to  give  me  in  youth.  If  only  one  Seurat  overlooked  by  connoisseurs,  one  unfa-  miliar  Signac,  had  been  included  to  pique  the  jaded  appetite,  I  thought,  and  decided,  ruat  ceelum,  that  I  really  must  rap  the  committee's  knuckles  in  my  re-  view.  Well,  just  as  I  was  quitting  the  gallery,  a  grubby  little  nouveau  riche  in  an  absurd  bonnet,  with  those  terribly  yearning  eyes  556e6974656420537461746573n  culture-seekers  have,  blundered  into  me.  She  gushed  apologies  in  that  nasal  accent  that  defies imitation,  then  proceeded  to  take  advan-  tage  of  the  situation.  &quot;Isn't  it  divine?&quot;  she  carolled.  &quot;I'm  all  agog  about  the  van  Goghs!&quot;  It  took  a  superhuman  effort  to  re-  strain  my  mirth.  The  poor  soul  had  rhymed  the  painter's  name  with  her  emotional  state,  too  benighted  to  know  that  it  was  pronounced  &quot;Kok,&quot;  with  soft  &quot;k&quot;s,  or,  alternatively,  &quot;Go.&quot;  A  delicious  tidbit  to  regale  the  chums  with  at  Annabel's  boite,  and  the  impulse  to  cap  it  was  uncontrollable.  I  lifted  a  quizzical  eyebrow.  &quot;Money  makes  the  mare  go,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  Monet  makes  the  van  Go.&quot;  The  quip  indubitably  tor-  pedoed  British-556e6974656420537461746573n  amity,  but  I  would  have  thought  less  of  myself  had  I  not  put  her  in  her  place.  &quot;Good  after-  noon,  luv.&quot;  Perhaps  it  was  an  access  of  euphoria  at  scoring  off  the  Philistines  so  neatly,  but  I  felt  I  deserved  a  treat,  and,  yield-  ing  to  my  shameful  secret  passion  for  sweets,  I  hared  off  to  my  very  favorite  confiserie  in  the  Rue  de  Rivoli.  Gour-  mandise,  I  fear,  rather  got  thebetter  of  me.  After  two  huge  g\xc3\xa9teaux  frosted  over  with  hazelnuts  and  whipped  cream,  I  sank  into  such  blissful  satiety  as  might  a  lizard  basking  on  an  ivied  wall  in  Pro-  vence.  Suddenly  a  voice  unmistakable  twanged  through  my  marrow,  and  I  beheld  the  transatlantic  succubus  who'd  captured  me  at  the  exhibition.  &quot;Do  forgive  me  for  disturbing  you,&quot;  she  said  breathlessly.  &quot;I  really  owe  you  an  apol-  ogy  for  mispronouncing  Mr.  van  Gogh's  name.  You  see,  this  is  my  first  trip  to  Europe,  and  we  556e6974656420537461746573ns  don't  savvy  the  foreign  lingo,  but  I'm  very  glad  to  be  corrected,  because  that's  how  one  learns,  isn't  it?&quot;  Well,  had  I  sent  the  creature  packing  it  would  have  taught  her  a  salutary  lesson  and  averted  ulti-  mate  grief.  Instead,  all  the  tiresome  noblesse  oblige  instilled  in  one  by  gen-  erations  of  breeding  and  education  bubbled  to  the  surface.  As  patiently  as  possible,  I  replied  that  she  wasn't  responsible  for  be-  ing  556e6974656420537461746573n  any  more  than  my  family  could  help  tracing  its  lineage  back  to  William  the  Conqueror.  She  seemed  truly  grate-  ful  for  the  explication.  &quot;How  marvellous  to  en-  " b"counter  somebody  with  genuine  Old  World  courtesy,&quot;  she  said,  plumping  herself  down.  &quot;I  knew  you  were  a  thoroughbred  the  moment  I  saw  you.  Your  hands  are  so  sensitive  and  artistic.  Are  you  a  sculptor?&quot;  Her  naivete?  was  enchanting-pure  Fenimore  Cooper.  &quot;In  a  sense,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;My  medium  is  words  rather  than  clay.  I'm  an  art  critic  not  altogether  un-  known  in  this  hemisphere.&quot;  &quot;Just  imagine,&quot;  she  said,  overcome.  &quot;Won't  the  folks  back  home  be  green  with  envy  when  I  tell  them!  It's  a  pity  my  Alonzo  never  lived  to  meet  celebrities  like  you.  He  was  so  busy  running  our  six-hundred-thousand-acre  ranch  in  the  Panhandle  and  amassing  his  millions  that  neither  of  us  had  much  time  for  culture.&quot;  Great  sentimental  booby  that  I  am,  something  in  her  manner-the  appeal  of  a  lonely  human  being  for  sympa-  thy?-touched  a  chord,  and  I  re\xc3\xa9xam-  ined  the  woman.  My  first  impression  had  been  wrong;  albeit  tacky,  her  suit  was  tailored  of  quite  respectable  mate-  rial  and  the  furs  were  unquestionably  sable.  Her  visage,  furthermore,  while  no  longer  young,  still  bore  evidences  of  beauty,  and  even  distinction.  Any  lingering  suspicion  that  she  was  a  nobody  vanished  with  the  entry  of  the  chasseur  to  announce  that  Mrs.  Huf-  faker's  Rolls  was  waiting.  As  she  gath-  ered  up  her  bag  and  gloves,  she  paused     awkwardly.  &quot;Ihope  you  won't  think  me  forward,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  you're  not  otherwise  engaged  this  evening,  could  you-would  you-escort  me  to  the  opera?  It's  a  dream  I've  cherished  all  my  life,  but  the  thought  of  being  alone  in  that  box  ...&quot;  She  fought  to  master  the  catch  in  her  throat.  &quot;Please  say  you  will.  I?d  mean  so  much.&quot;  Why,  oh  why,  do  we  let  ourselves  be  victimized  by  the  weak?  I  suppose  it  was  compassion,  the  knowledge  of  the  lustre  my  presence  would  shed  on  her  future  reminiscences,  that  swayed  me,  and  I  chose  to  be  magnanimous.  In  fact,  the  episode  was  far  less  poi-  sonous  than  I  had  anticipated.  To  be  sure,  my  companion  made  several  deli-  " b"cious  gaffes,  such  as  shaking  hands  dur-  ing  the  interval  with  the  Aveyron-Plu-  tarchs,  scions  of  a  very  old  family  who  never  shake  hands  when  presented,  but  she  insisted  on  giving  me  supper  after-  ward  at  Maxim's,  and  the  direction,  overjoyed  as  always  to  see  me,  ex-  humed  a  quite  potable  Krug.  Under  its  influence,  I  promised  Moline-named,  she  told  me,  after  some  celebrated  556e6974656420537461746573n  plow,  as  is  apparently  their  custom  on  the  prairie-to  accompany  her  on  a  shopping  tour  next  day.  The  rigors  of  squiring  her  through  a  score  of  maisons  de  couture,  jewellers,  and  millinery  shops  were,  needless  to  say,  unimaginable,  and  the  constant  appeals  to  my  judgment  depleting.  As  it  turned  out,  however,  my  gesture  bore  un-  expected  fruit.  I  was  about  to  emplane  at  Orly  for  [REDACTED]  when  she  pressed  on  me  a  truly  sumptuous  gift-a  re-  turn-flight  ticket,  first  class,  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;No,  no-not  a  word,&quot;  she  said,  silencing  my  protestations.  &quot;I  owe  you  a  debt  I  can  never  repay.  After  all,  you  rescued  me  from  myself,  so  to  speak.  T'd  have  remained  such  an  ignoramus,  a  hopeless  barbarian,  if  you  hadn't  taken  me  under  your  wing  atthe  gallery  as  you  did.  Come  and  visit  real  soon.  I  guarantee  youan  experience  you'll  never  forget.&quot;  And,  indeed,  the  prophecy  was  being  fulfilled,  I  reflected  sardonically  a  month  later  as  her  chauffeur  sped  me     from  the  [REDACTED]  airport  to  Mrs.  Huffaker's  residence  in  the  suburbs.  What  architectural  banality,  what  ex-  crescences  of  concrete  and  stucco  had  bloomed  from  those  arid  plains  outside  thecar  window!  The  acute  desolation  that  had  attended  my  brief  stopover  in  New  York  welled  up  anew.  Every-  thing  I'd  encountered  thus  far  seemed  designed  to  outrage  the  senses-the  clothes  our  sof-disent  cousins  wore,  their  language,  their  food,  their  pas-  times.  Worse  than  the  ostentation,  the  crudities  of  taste  and  behavior,  though,  was  the  pervasive  noise.  The  smallest  activity,  it  appeared,  demanded  a  rich  musical  obbligato.  Banks  and  super-  markets,  bookstores  and  hotel  lobbies  throbbed  with  light  opera  and  similar  glucose;  gone  was  the  tobacco  juice  spurted  at  the  visitor's  feet  in  Mrs.  Trollope's  day,  and  in  its  place  cacoph-  ony.  No  wonder  [REDACTED]'s  contribu-  tion  to  literature  and  the  arts  was  negligible-it  was  impossible  to  con-  centrate.  As  for  the  vaunted  standard  of  livingthere,  that,too,  was  an  illu-  sion.  [REDACTED]  kippers  were  totally  un-  heard  of,  ordinary  toffees  of  the  sort  found  in  any  English  confectioner's  unobtainable,  and  the  mere  mention  of  gooseberry  flan  evoked  stupefaction.  My  forebodings  lessened  somewhat  as  we  swung  past  a  set  of  ornate  gates,  wound  through  masses  of  shrubbery,  and  came  to  a  stop  before  a  vast  Renais-  sance-style  palazzo.  Moline,  a  breath  of  French  chic  in  lounging  pajamas  I  had  selected  for  her  at  Dior's,  gave  me  an  effusive  welcome.  She  apologized  for  the  light  repast  we  were  to  have;  her  entire  staff  was  absent  that  day  for  some  complex  reason-perhaps  one  of  their  native  corn  dances.  &quot;You  won't  mind  an  informal  lunch,  just  the  two  of  us?&quot;  she  queried.  &quot;I  didn't  ask  anyone,  knowing  you'd  be  exhausted  from  the  trip,  the  excitement  of  New  York-&quot;  &quot;On  the  contrary,  I'm  delighted,&quot;  I  assured  her.  &quot;And  I  can't  wait  to  have  you  show  me  over  the  house.  It-ah-  looks  fascinating.&quot;  Her  eyes  sparkled.  &quot;I've  waited  for  this  moment,  too,&quot;  she  said,  with  an  emphasis  that  rather  puzzled  me.  &quot;You'll  see  it  all,  never  fear.  One  thing  in  particular,  that'll  make  a  last-  ing  impression,  I  hope.&quot;  My  fleeting  glimpse  of  556e6974656420537461746573n  d\xc3\xa9cor  en  route  must,  I  suppose,  have  partly  inured  me  to  what  followed,  else  I  believe  I  never  could  have  withstood  it.  The  atrocities  the  Huffakers  had  surrounded  themselves  with  beggared  description-the  bogus  Italian  painting,  the  Mid-Victorian  statuary,  the  objects  " b"of  virtu  rifled  from  a  hundred  auction  rooms.  Mixed  into  the  mishmash  were  oddments  of  Spanish,  French,  Early  556e6974656420537461746573n,  and  modern  furniture,  not  to  mention  Moorish  tabourets  inlaid  with  mother-of-pearl,  armchairs  of  steerhorn,  and  hassocks  fashioned  from  camel  saddles.  Such  a  kitchen  midden  would  doubtless  have  posed  a  dilemma  for  the  average  visitor,  but  in  matters  of  aesthetic  opinion  I  always  make  it  a  principle  to  speak  forth.  I  told  Moline  as  succinctly  as  I  was  able  that  her  home  was  a  chamber  of  horrors.  To  my  surprise,  she  agreed.  &quot;I  know,&quot;  she  said  humbly.  &quot;I'd  feel  the  same  if  I  were  in  your  shoes.  I  mean,  you've  been  conditioned  by  cen-  turies  of  European  civilization,  haven't  you?&quot;  To  say  nothing  of  birth  and  superi-  or  schooling,&quot;  I  added.  &quot;Yes,  dear  lady,  in  that  respect  I'm  afraid  we  rather  have  the  'jump'  on  you,  as  you  say  in  your  argot.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that  reminds  me!&quot;  she  said,  taking  my  arm.  &quot;The  object  I  said  I  was  sure  you'd  remember?  Come  this  way-it's  out  in  the  garden.&quot;  I  followed  her  along  a  rocky  path  bordered  by  greenery  to  a  secluded  pa-  tio  dotted  with  outdoor  furniture.  In  the  center  stood  a  rustic  well  curb  of  quite  unremarkable  design,  arched  over  by  a  roof  of  moss-covered  shingles.  To  my  alien  eye,  it  possessed  only  the  most  tran-  sient  charm,  but,  explained  Moline,  this  was  a  memento  of  the  Huffakers'  early  struggles,  the  original  well  that  had  wa-  tered  their  ranch  house  in  the  Panhandle.  &quot;Alonzo  used  to  stand  here  by  the     hour  gazing  into  it,&quot;  she  told  me  remi-  niscently.  &quot;It's  so  wonderfully  cool  and  mysterious  down  there.  Look  inside-  go  ahead.&quot;  Rather  to  indulge  her  whim  than  from  any  real  curiosity,  I  complied  and  bent  over  the  edge.  In  the  next  mo-  ment,  the  most  appalling  catastrophe  in  my  memory  overtook  me,.  I  felt  a  sud-  den  vigorous  thrust  from  behind  and  toppled  headlong  into  the  dark,  flailing  wildly  for  a  purchase  as  I  dropped.  Somehow,  inexplicably,  I  managed  to  clutch  the  chain  the  bucket  was  sus-  pended  from  and  partially  braked  my  fall,  though  the  screech  of  the  mecha-  nism  and  that  lurch  into  oblivion  will  haunt  me  forever.  A  second  afterward,  I  plummeted  into  freezing  water  up  to  my  hips.  The  shock  acted  at  least  to  dispel  my  vertigo.  Gripping  the  chain  for  dear  life,  I  regained  my  balance  and  peered  upward.  Framed  against  the  sky,  Moline  Huffaker,  that  unutterable  ser-  pent,  was  leaning  comfortably  on  her  elbows,  regarding  me  with  a  glee  I  can  only  describe  as  diabolical.  'Tallyho,  old  bean!&quot;  she  called  out.  &quot;How's  everything  Gauguin?  It's  a  right  smart  climb  out  of  there,  luv,  but  don't  be  a  Sisley-you  can  make  it.  Well,  toodle-oo  for  now  ;  I'm  off  to  the  Caribbean.  Any  time  you're  Pascin  by,  do  drop  in,  won't  you?  Pip-pip.&quot;  Well,  I  believe  that  covers  the  salient  points  I  outlined  to  Ayscough  in  his  chambers  at  Lincoln's  Inn.  As  forthe  pain  and  suffering  I  endured  in  my  im-  broglio  and  the  compensation  I  am  en-  titled  to  therefor,  those  will  be  assessed  in  full  measure  by  Her  Majesty's  courts. For  the  present,  I  have  but  one  thing  to  add-a  word  of  warning  to  Britons  everywhere.  Beware  a  country  that  can  produce  harpies  like  Mrs.  Moline  Huf-  faker,  a  country  without  a  scintilla  of  taste,  clamorous  with  cheap  music,  and  loyal  to  one  tradition  only-vengeance,  derived  from  its  aboriginal  Red  Indians.  Shun  it,  I  implore  you.  Those  people  are  fiends.     "