 b"SHE  is  a  tall  dark  beauty  containing  a  great  many  beauty  spots:  one  above  the  breast,  one  above  the  belly,  one  above  the  knee,  one  above  the  ankle,  one  above  the  buttock,  one  on  the  back  of  the  neck.  All  of  these  are  on  the  left  side,  more  or  less  in  a  row,  as  you  go  up  and  down: The  hair  is  black  as  ebony,  the  skin  white  as  snow.  Bill  is  tired  of  Snow  White  now.  But  he  cannot  tell  her.  No,  that  would  not  be  the  way.  Bill  can't  bear  to  be  touched.  That  is  new  too.  To  have  anyone  touch  him  is  unbearable.  Not  just  Snow  White  but  also  Kevin,  Ed-  ward,  Hubert,  Henry,  [REDACTED],  or  Dan.  That  is  a  peculiar  aspect  of  Bill,  the  leader.  We  speculate  that  he  doesn't  want  to  be  involved  in  human  situations  anymore.  A  withdrawal.  Withdrawal  is  one  of  the  four  modes  of  dealing  with  anxiety.  We  speculate  that  his  reluc-  tance  to  be  touched  springs  from  that.  Dan  does  not  go  along  with  the  anxiety  theory.  Dan  does  not  believe  in  anxiety.  Dan  speculates  that  Bill's  reluctance  to  be  touched  is  a  physical  manifestation  of  a  metaphysical  condition  that  is  not  anxiety.  But  he  is  the  only  one  who  speculates  that.  The  rest  of  us  support  anxiety.  Bill  has  let  us  know  in  subtle  ways  that  he  doesn't  want  to  be  touched.  If  he  falls  down,  you  are  not  to  pick  him  up.  If  someone  holds  out  a  hand  in  greeting,  Bill  smiles.  If  it  is  time  to  wash  the  buildings,  he  will  pick  up  his  own  bucket.  Don't  hand  him  a  bucket,  for  in  that  circumstance  there  is  a  chance  that  your  hands  will  touch.  Bill  is  tired  of  Snow  White.  She  must  have  noticed  that  he  doesn't  go  to  the  shower  room,  now.  We  are  sure  she  has  noticed  that.  But  Bill  has  not  told  her  in  so  many  words  that  he  is  tired  of  her.  He  has  not  had  the  heart  to  unfold  those  cruel  words,  we  speculate,  Those  cruel  words  remain  locked  in  his  lack  of  V  heart.  Snow  White  must  assume  that  his  absence  from  the  shower  room,  in  these  days,  is  an  aspect  of  his  not  liking  to  be  touched.  We  are  certain  she  has  assumed  that.  But  to  what  does  she  at-  tribute  the  &quot;not-liking&quot;  itself?  We  don't  know.  &quot;Oh  I  wish  there  were  some  words  in  the  world  that  were  not  the  words  I  always  hear!&quot;  Snow  White  exclaimed  loudly.  We  regarded  each  other  sit-  ting  around  the  breakfast  table  with  its  big  cardboard  boxes  of  &quot;Fear,&quot;  &quot;Chix,&quot;  and  &quot;Rats.&quot;  Words  in  the  world  that  were  not  the  words  she  al-  ways  heard?  What  words  could  those  be?  &quot;Fish  slime,&quot;  Howard  said,  but  he  was  a  visitor,  and  rather  crude,  too,  and  we  instantly  regretted  that  we  had  lent  him  a  sleeping  bag,  and  took  it  away  from  him,  and  took  away  his  bowl,  too,  and  the  Chix  that  were  in  it,  and  the  milk  on  top  of  the  Chix,  and  his  spoon  and  napkin  and  chair,  and  began  pelting  him  with  boxes,  to  indicate  that  his  welcome  had  been  used  up.  We  soon  got  rid  of  him.  But  the  problem  remained.  What  words  were  those?  &quot;Now  we  havebeen  left  sucking  the  mop  again,&quot;  Kevin  said,  but  Kevin  is  easily  discouraged.  &quot;In-  junctions!&quot;  Bill  said,  and  when  he  said  that  we  were  glad  he  was  still  our  leader,  although  some  of  us  had  been  wondering  about  him  lately.  &quot;Mur-  der  and  create!&quot;  Henry  said,  and  that  was  weak,  but  we  applauded,  and  Snow  White  said,  &quot;That  is  one  I've  never  heard  beforeever,&quot;  and  that  gave  us  courage,  and  we  all  began  to  say  things,  things  that  were  more  or  less  satisfactory,  or  at  least  adequate,  to  serve  the  purpose,  for  the  time  being.  The  whole  thing  was  papered  over,  for  the  time  being,  and  didn't  break  out  into  the  open,  If  it  had  broken  out  into  the  open,  then  we  would  really have  been  left  sucking  the  mop  in  a  big  way,  that  Monday.  Then  we  went  out  to  wash  the  buildings.  Clean  buildings  fill  your  eyes  with  sunlight,  and  your  heart  with  the  idea  that  man  is  perfectible.  Also  they  are  good  places  to  look  at  girls  from,  those  high,  swaying  wooden  plat-  forms:  you  get  a  rare  view,  gazing  at  the  tops  of  their  red  and  gold  and  plum-  colored  heads.  Viewed  from  above  they  are  like  targets,  the  plum-colored  head  the  center  of  the  target,  the  wavy  navy  skirt  the  bold  circumference.  The  white  orblack  legs  flopping  out  in  front  are  like  someone  waving  his  arms  over  the  top  of  the  target  and  calling,  &quot;You  missed  the  center  by  not  allow-  ing  sufficiently  for  the  wind!&quot;  We  are  very  much  tempted  to  shoot  our  arrows  into  them,  those  targets.  You  know  what  that  means,  But  we  also  pay  attention  to  the  buildings,  gray  and  noble  in  their  false  architecture  and  cladding.  There  are  Tiparillos  in  our  faces  and  heavy  jangling  belts  around  our  waists,  and  water  in  our  buckets  and  squeegees  on  our  poles.  And  we  have  our  beer  bottles  up  there  too,  and  drink  beer  for  a  second  break-  fast,  even  though  that  is  against  the  law,  but  we  are  so  high  up,  no  one  can  be  sure.  It's  too  bad  Hogo  de  Ber-  gerac  isn't  up  here  with  us,  because  maybe  the  experience  would  be  good  for  him,  would  make  him  less  loath-  some.  But  he  would  probably  just  seize  the  occasion  to  perform  some  new  loathsome  act.  He  would  probably  just  throw  beer  cans  down  into  the  street,  to  make  irritating  lumps  under  the  feet  of  those  girls  who,  right  this  minute,  are  trying  to  find  the  right  typewriter,  in  the  correct  building.  Heigh-ho.  Now  she's  written  a  dirty  great  poem  four  pages  long,  won't  let  us  read  it-refuses  absolutely,  she  is  adamant.  We  discovered  it  by  accident.  We  had  trudged  home  early,  lingered  in  the  vestibule  for  a  bit  wondering  if  we  should  trudge  inside.  A  strange  pre-  hension,  a  boding  of  some  kind.  Then  we  trudged  inside.  &quot;Here's  the  mail,&quot;  we  said.  She  was  writing  something,  we  could  see  that.  &quot;Here's  the  mail,&quot;  we  said  again.  Usually  she  likes  to  paw  over  the  mail,  but  she  was  preoccupied,  didn't  look  up,  not  a  flicker.  &quot;W  hat  are  you  doing  there?&quot;  we  asked.  &quot;Writing  something?&quot;  Snow  White  looked  up.  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  she  said.  And  looked  down  again,  not  a  pinch  of  emotion  coloring  the  jet  black  of  her  jet-black  eyes.  &quot;A  " b"letter?&quot;  we  asked  wondering  if  a  letter  then  to  whom  and  about  what.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;A  list?&quot;  we  asked  inspecting  her  white  face  for  a  hint  of  tendresse.  But  there  was  no  tendresse.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  We  noticed  then  that  she  had  switched  the  tulips  from  the  green  bowl  to  the  blue  bowl.  &quot;What  then?&quot;  we  asked.  We  noticed  that  she  had  shifted  the  lilies  from  the  escritoire  to  the  chif-  fonier.  &quot;What  then?&quot;  we  repeated.  We  observed  that  she  had  hauled  the  Indian  paintbrush  all  the  way  out  into  the  kitchen.  &quot;Poem,&quot;  she  said.  We  had  the  mail  in  our  paws  still.  &quot;Poem?&quot;  we  said.  &quot;Poem,&quot;  she  said.  There  it  was,  the  red  meat  on  the  rug.  &quot;Well,&quot;  we  said,  &quot;can  we  have  a  peek?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;How  long  is  it?&quot;  we  asked.  &quot;Four  pages,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;at  present.&quot;  &quot;Four  pages!&quot;  The  thought  of  this  im-  mense  work  the  contents  of  which  were  to  be  concealed  from  us  ran  like  a  shish-kebab  sword  through  our  brains.  V  acillations  and  confusions  of  Snow  White:  &quot;But  who  am  I  to  love?&quot;  Snow  White  asked  hesitating,  because  she  already  loved  us,  in  a  way,  but  it  wasn't  enough.  Still,  she  was  slightly  ashamed.  Then  I  took  off  my  shirt  and  called  Paul,  because  we  were  planning  to  break  into  his  apartment,  and  if  he  was  there  we  could  not  do  so.  If  he  was  there  we  would  be  recognized,  he  would  know  who  we  were,  and  that  we  were  carrying  his  typewriter  out  into  the  streetto  sell  it.  He  would  know  everything  about  us:  how  we  made  our  living,  what  girls  we  liked,  where  we  kept  the  vats.  Paul  didn't  answer  so  it  wasn't  necessary  to  ask  if  Anna  was  there-the  prepared  name  we  were  go-  ing  to  ask  for.  Paul  sat  in  h's  baff,  un-  der  the  falling  water.  He  was  writing  a  palinode.  &quot;Perhaps  it  is  wrong  to  have  favorites  among  the  forms,&quot;  he  reflect-  ed.  &quot;But  retraction  has  a  special  allure  for  me.  I  would  wish  to  retract  every-  thing,  if  I  could,  so  that  the  whole  written  world  would  be  .  .  .&quot;  More  hot  water  fell  into  the  baff.  &quot;I  would  re-  tract  the  green  sea,  and  the  brown  fish  in  it,  and  I  would  especially  retract  that  long  black  hair  hanging  from  that  win-  dow,  that  I  saw  today  on  my  way  here  from  the  Unemployment  Office.  It  has  made  me  terribly  nervous,  that  hair.  It  was  beautiful,  I  admit  it.  Long  black  hair  of  such  texture,  fineness,  is  not  easily  come  by.  Hair  black  as  ebony!  Yet  it  has  made  me  terribly  nervous.  Why,  some  innocent  person  might  come  along,  and  see  it,  and  conceive  it  h's  duty  to  climb  up,  and  discern  the  rea-  son  it  is  being  hung  out  of  that  window.  There  is  probably  some  girl  attached  to  it,  at  the  top,  and  with  her  respon-  sibilities  of  various  sorts-teeth,  piano  lessons.  ...  There  is  the  telephone  ringing,  now.  Who  is  it?  Who  or  what  wants  me?  Iwill  not  answer.  That  way,  I  am  safe,  for  the  time  being.&quot;  There  is  a  river  of  girls  and  women  in  our  streets.  There  are  so  many  that  thecars  are  forced  to  use  the  sidewalks.  The  women  walk  in  the  street  proper,  the  part  where,  in  other  cities,  trucks  and  bicycles  are  found.  They  stand  in  windows,  too,  unbuckling  their  shirts,  so  that  we  will  not  be  displeased.  I  ad-  mire  them  for  that.  We  have  voted  again  and  again,  and  I  think  they  like  that,  that  we  vote  so  much.  We  voted  to  try  the  river  in  the  next  town.  They  have  a  girl-river  there  that  they  don't  use  much.  We  slipped  into  the  felucca  carrying  our  baggage  in  long  canvas  tubes  tied,  in  the  middle,  with  straps.  The  girls  groaned  under  the  additional  weight.  Then  Hubert  pushed  off  and  Bill  began  to  beat  time  for  the  rowers.  We  wondered  if  Snow  White  would  be  happy,  alone  there.  But  if  she  wasn't,  we  couldn't  do  anything  about  it.  Men  try  to  please  their  mistresses  when  they,  men,  are  not  busy  in  the  counting-  house,  or  drinking  healths,  or  having  the  blade  of  a  new  dagger  chased  with  gold.  In  the  village  we  walked  around  the  well  where  the  girls  were  dipping  their  trousers.  The  zippers  were  rust-  ing.  &quot;Ha  ha,&quot;  the  girls  said,  &quot;we  could  tear  this  down  in  a  minute,  this  well.&quot;  It  is  difficult  to  defeat  that  notion,  the  one  the  village  girls  hold,  that  the  boy  who  trembles  by  the  wall,  against  the  stones,  will  be  pope  someday.  He  is  not  even  hungry;  his  family  is  not  even  poor.  &amp;  What  is  Snow  White  thinking?  No  one  knows.  Today  she  came  into  the  kitchen  and  asked  for  a  glass  of  wa-  |  " b"ter.  Henry  gave  her  a  glass  of  water.  &quot;Aren't  you  going  to  ask  me  what  I  want  this  glass  of  water  for?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  assumed  you  wanted  to  drink  it,&quot;  Henry  said.  &quot;No  Henry,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;Thirsty  I  am  not.  You  are  not  paying  attention  Henry.  Your  eye  is  not  on  the  ball.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  want  the  glass  of  water  for  Snow  White?&quot;  &quot;Let  a  hundred  flowers  bloom,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  Then  she  left  the  room,  carrying  the  glass  of  water.  Kevin  came  in.  &quot;Snow  White  smiled  at  me  in  the  hall,&quot;  Kevin  said.  &quot;Shut  up  Kevin.  Shut  up  and  tell  me  what  this  means:  let  a  hundred  flowers  bloom.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  what  it  means  Henry,&quot;  Kevin  said.  &quot;It's  Chinese,  I  know  that&quot;&quot;  What  is  Snow  White  thinking?  No  one  knows.  Now  she  has  taken  to  wearing  heavy  blue  bulky  shapeless  quilted  People's  Volunteers  trousers  rather  than  the  tight  tremen-  dous  how-the-West-was-won  trousers  she  formerly  wore,  which  we  admired  immoderately.  An  unmistakable  af-  front,  I  would  say.  We  are  getting  pretty  damned  sick  of  the  whole  thing,  of  her  air  of  being  just  about  to  do  something  and  of  the  dozen-odd  red  flags  and  bugles  she  has  nailed  to  the  dining-room  table.  We  are  getting  pret-  ty  damned  sick  of  the  whole  thing  and  our  equanimity  is  leaking  away  and  finding  those  tiny  Chairman  Mao  poems  in  the  baby  food  isn't  helping  one  bit,  I  can  tell  you  that.  THE  PSYCHOLOGY  OF  SNOW  WHITE:  IN  THE  AREA  OF  FEARS,  SHE  FEARS  MIRRORS  APPLES  POISONED  COMBS  In  addition  to  washing  the  buildings,  we  make  baby  food,  Chinese  baby  food:  Baby  Bow  Yee  (chopped  pork  and  Chinese  vegetables)  Baby  Dow  Shew  (bean  curd  stuffed  with  ground  pike)  Baby  Jar  Har  (shrimp  in  batter)  Baby  Gook  Shar  Shew  Bow  (sweet  roast  pork)  Baby  Pie  Guat  (pork  and  oysters  in  soysauce  Baby  Gai  Goon  (chicken,  bean  sprouts,  and  cabbage)  Baby  Dim  Sum  (ground  pork  and  Chinese  vegetables)  Baby  JingShar  Shew  Bow  (sweet  roast  pork  and  apples)  That  is  how  we  spend  our  time,  tend-  ing  the  vats.  Although  sometimes  we  spend  our  time  washing  the  buildings.  The  vats  and  the  buildings  have  made    us  rich.  It  is  amazing  how  many  moth-  ers  will  spring  for  an  attractively  pack-  aged  jar  of  Baby  Dim  Sum,  a  tasty-  looking  potlet  of  Baby  JingShar  Shew  Bow.  Heigh-ho.  The  recipes  came  from  our  father.  &quot;Try  to  be  a  man  about  whom  nothing  is  known,&quot;  our  father  said,  when  we  were  young.  Our  father  said  several  other  interesting  things,  but  we  have  forgotten  what  they  were.  &quot;Keep  quiet,&quot;  he  said.  That  we  remember.  He  wanted  more  quiet.  One  tends  to  want  that,  in  a  National  Park.  Our  father  was  a  man  about  whom  nothing  was  known.  Nothing  is  known  about  him  still.  He  gave  us  the  recipes.  He  was  not  very  interesting.  A  tree  is  more  interesting.  A  suitcase  is  more  interesting.  A  canned  good  is  more  interesting.  When  we  sing  the  fa-  ther  hymn,  we  notice  that  he  was  not  very  interesting.  'The  words  of  the  hymn  notice  it.  It  is  explicitly  com-  mented  upon,  in  the  text.  &quot;I  understand  all  this  about  Bill,&quot;  Henry  said.  He  had  unlocked  the  locks  on  the  bar  and  we  were  all  drinking.  Nevertheless  I  think  somebody  ought  to  build  a  fire  under  him.  He  needs  a  good  kick  in  the  back  according  to  my  way  of  thinking.  Couldn't  we  give  him  a  book  to  read  that  would  get  him  started?  It  bothers  me  to  come  in  at  night  and  see  him  sitting  there  playing  Hearts  or  something,  all  that  potential  being  thrown  away.  We  are  little  chil-  dren  compared  to  him,  in  terms  of  pos-  sibility,  and  yet  all  he  seems  to  want  to  do  is  sit  around  the  game  room,  and  shuffle  the  Bezique  cards,  and  throw  darts  and  that  sort  of  thing,  when  he  could  be  out  realizing  his  potential.  We  are  like  little  balls  of  dust  under  his  feet,  potentially,  and  he  merely  sits  there  making  ships  inside  bottles,  and  doing  scrimshaw,  and  all  that,  when  he  could  be  out  maximizing  his  possibilities.  Boy  I  would  like  to  build  a  fire  under  that  boy.  I'll  be  damned  if  I  know  what  to  do  about  this  situation  which  is  vexing  me  in  a  hundred  ways.  It's  just  such  a  damned  shame  and  crime  I  can't  stand  it,  the  more  I  think  about  it.  I  just  want  to  go  out  and  hurl  boxes  in  the  river,  the  more  I  think  about  it,  and  rage  against  fate-that  one  so  obviously  cho-  sen  to  be  the  darling  of  the  life-princi-  ple  should  be  so  indolent,  impious,  and  wrong.  I  am  just  about  at  the  end  of  my  tether,  boys,  and  I'll  say  that  to  his  face,  too!&quot;  At  dinner  we  discussed  the  psychia-  trist.  &quot;And  the  psychiatrist?&quot;  we  said.  " b"&quot;He  was  unforgivable,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Un-  forgivable?&quot;  &quot;He  said  I  was  uninter-  esting.&quot;  &quot;Uninteresting?&quot;  &quot;He  said  I  was  a  screaming  bore.&quot;  &quot;He  should  not  have  said  that.&quot;  &quot;He  said  he  wasn't  in  this  for  the  money.&quot;  &quot;For  what  then?&quot;  &quot;He  was  in  this  for  grins,  he  said.&quot;  &quot;'The  expression  is  unfamiliar.&quot;  &quot;There  were  not  a  million  grins  in  my  his-  tory,  he  said.&quot;  &quot;That  was  shabby  of  him.&quot;  &quot;He  said  let's  go  to  a  movie  for  God's  sake.&quot;  &quot;And?&quot;  &quot;We  went  to  a  movie.&quot;  &quot;Which?&quot;  &quot;A  Charlton  Heston.&quot;  &quot;How  was  it?&quot;  &quot;Excellent.&quot;  &quot;Who  paid?&quot;  &quot;He.&quot;  &quot;Was  there  popcorn?&quot;  &quot;Mars  Bars.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  hold  hands?&quot;  &quot;Naeturellement.&quot;  &quot;And  after?&quot;  &quot;Drinks.&quot;  &quot;And  after  that?&quot;  &quot;Don't  pry.&quot;  &quot;But,&quot;  we  said  putting  down  the  duck,  &quot;three  days  at  the  psy-  chiatrist's  ...&quot;  We  regarded  Snow  White,  her  smooth  lips  and  face,  her  womanly  figure  swaying  there,  at  the  window.  Something  was  certainly  wrong,  we  felt.  &quot;Most  life  is  unextraor-  dinary,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said  to  Snow  White,  in  the  kitchen.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Snow  White  said,  &quot;I  know.  Most  hfe  is  unextraordmar;  looked  at  with  a  woman's  desperate  eye,  too,  it  might  interest  you  to  know.&quot;  Dan  keeps  telling  Snow  White  that  &quot;Christmas  is  coming!&quot;  How  can  he  be  killed  most  easily?  With  the  fewest  stains?  The  pretty  airline  stewardess  regard-  ed  [REDACTED]'s  chest  through  his  transparent  wash-and-wear  nylon  shirt.  &quot;He  has  that  sort  of  fallen-in  chest  many  boys  from  the  West  have,  as  if  a  cow  had  fallen  on  him,  in  his  early  life.  Only  one  shirt.  The  shirt  on  his  back.  How  appealing  that  is!  Surely  I  must  do  something  for  this  poor  Westerner!&quot;  In  the  rear  baggage  compartment  [REDACTED]  sweated  over  the  ironing  board  Carol  had  made  out  of  a  pile  of  old  suitcases.  &quot;Snow  White  waits  for  me,&quot;  [REDACTED]  reflected  while  ironing  his  shirt.  &quot;Although  she  also  waits  for  Bill,  Hu-  bert,  Henry,  Edward,  Kevin,  and  Dan,  I  cannot  help  feeling  that,  when  ev-  erything  is  said  and  done,  she  is  es-  sentially  mine.  Even  though  I  am  aware  that  each  of  the  others  feels  the  same  way.&quot;  [REDACTED]  replaced  the  iron  in  the  bucket.  His  shirt  looked  fine  now,  just  fine.  The  aircraft  landed  softly,  justas  it  should.  The  stairway  fell  cor-  rectly  onto  the  landing  strip.  The  pas-  sengers  followed  protocol  in  getting  off,  the  most  famous  emerging  first,  the  most  ignoble  emerging  last.  [REDACTED]  was  in  the  lower  middle.  He  regarded  the  Volkswagens  crowding  the  [REDACTED]  streets,  the  children  freaking  out  in their  Army  surplus,  the  black  grime  falling  from  the  sky.  &quot;So  this  is  the  Free  World!  I  would  so  like  to  make  'love'  in  a  bed,  just  once.  Making  it  in  the  shower  is  fine,  on  ordinary  days,  but  on  one's  vacation  there  should  be  something  a  little  different,  it  seems  to  me.  A  bed  would  bea  sensational  novelty.  I  suppose  I  must  seek  out  a  bordel.  I  assume  they  can  be  found  in  the  Yellow  Pages.  It  is  not  Snow  White  thatI  would  be  being  unfaithful  to,  but  the  shower.  Only  a  collection  of  white  porcelain  and  shinymetal,  at  bottom.&quot;  THE  SECOND  GENERATION  OF  ENG-  LISH  ROMANTICS  INHERITED  THE  PROBLEMS  OF  THE  FIR43616e616461,  BUT  COM-  PLICATED  BY  THE  EVILS  OF  INDUS-  TRIALISM  AND  POLITICAL  REPRES-  SION.  ULTIMATELY  THEY  FOUND  AN  ANSWER  NOT  IN  SOCIETY  BUT  IN  VARIOUS  FORMS  OF  INDEPENDENCE  FROM  SOCIETY:  HEROISM  ART  SPIRITUAL  TRANSCENDENCE  EAVER  COLLEGE  is  where  she  got  her  education.  She  studied  Mod-  ern  Woman,  Her  Privileges  and  Re-  sponsibilities:  the  nature  and  nurture  of  women  and  what  they  stand  for,in  evolution  and  in  history,  including  householding,  upbringing,  peacekeep-  ing,  healing,  and  devotion,  and  how  these  contribute  to  the  rehumanizing  of  today's  world.  Then  she  studied  Class-  cal  Guitar  I,  utilizing  the  methods  and  techniques  of  Sor,  Tarrega,  Segovia,  etc.  Then  she  studied  English  Roman-  tic  Poets  II:  Shelley,  Byron,  Keats.  Then  she  studied  Theoretical  Founda-  tions  of  Psychology:  mind,  conscious-  ness,  unconscious  mind,  personality,  the  self,  interpersonal  relations,  psychosex-  ual  norms,  social  games,  groups,  ad-  justment,  conflict,  authority,  individua-  tion,  integration,  and  mental  health.  Then  she  studied  O#  Painting  I,  bring-  ing  to  the  first  class  as  instructed  Cad-  mium  Yellow  Light,  Cadmium  Yellow  Medium,  Cadmium  Red  Light,  Aliza-  rin  Crimson,  Ultramarine  Blue,  Co-  balt  Blue,  Viridian,  Ivory  Black,  Raw  Umber,  Yellow  Ochre,  Burnt  Sienna,  White.  Then  she  studied  Personel  Re-  sources  I  and  II:  self-evaluation,  de-  veloping  the  courage  to  respond  to  the  environment,  opening  and  using  the  mind,  individual  experience,  training,  the  use  of  time,  mature  redefinition  of  goals,  action  projects.  Then  she  studied  Realiso  and  Idealism  in  the  Contemporary  Italian  Novel:  Palaz-  zeschi,  Brancati,  Bilenchi,  Pratolini,  Moravia,  Pavese,  Levi,  Silone,  Berto,  Cassola,  Ginzburg,  Malaparte,  Calvino,  Gadda,  Bassani,  Landolfi.  Then  she  studied-  &quot;I  am  princely,&quot;  Paul  reflected  in  his  eat-in  kitchen.  &quot;There  is  that.  At  " b"times,  when  I  am  'down,&quot;  I  am  able  to  pump  myself  up  again  by  thinking  about  my  blood.  It  is  blue,  the  bluest  this  fad-  ing  world  has  known  probably.  At  times  I  startle  myself  with  a  gesture  so  royal,  so  full  of  light,  that  I  wonder  where  it  comes  from.  It  comes  from  my  fa-  ther,  Paul  XVII,  a  most  kingly  man  and  personage.  Even  though  his  sole  accomplishment  during  his  long  lack  of  reign  was  the  de-deification  of  his  own  person.  He  fluttered  the  dovecotes  with  that  gesture,  when  he  presented  himself  as  mortal  and  just  like  every-  body  else.  A  lot  of  people  were  sur-  prised.  But  the  one  thing  they  could  not  take  away  from  him,  there  in  that  hall  bedroom  in  Montreux,  was  his  blood.  And  the  other  thing  they  could  not  take  away  from  him  was  his  airs  and  graces,  which  I  have  inherited,  to  asickeningdegree.  Even  at  fifty-five  he  was  still  putting  cologne  in  his  shoes.  But  I  am  more  experimental  thanhe  was,  and  at  the  same  time,  more  with-  drawn.  The  height  of  his  ambition  was  to  tumble  the  odd  chambermaid  now  and  then,  whereas  I  have  loftier  ambi-  tions,  only  I  don't  know  what  they  are,  exactly.  Probably  I  should  go  out  and  effect  a  liaison  with  some  beauty  who  needs  me,and  save  her,  and  ride  away  with  her  flung  over  the  pommel  of  my  palfrey,  I  believe  I  have  that  right.  But  on  the  other  hand,  this  duck  with  blue  cheese  sandwich  that  I  am  eating  is  mighty  attractive  and  absorb-  ing,  too.  He  was  peculiar,  my  father.  That  much  can  safely  be  said.  He  knew  some  things  that  other  men  do  not  know.  He  heard  the  swans  singing  just  before  death,  and  the  bees  barking  in  the  night.  That  is  what  he  said,  but  I  didn't  believe  him,  then.  Now  I  don't  know.&quot;  Henry  was  noting  his  weaknesses  on  a  pad.  Process  comparable  to  searching  a  dog's  underbelly  for  fleas.  The  weak-  nesses  pinched  out  of  the  soul's  ecstasy  one  by  one.  Of  course  &quot;ecstasy&quot;  is  be-  ing  used  here  in  a  very  special  sense,  as  misery,  something  that  would  be  in  German  one  of  three  aspectsof  some-  thing  called  the  Luwmpwelt  in  some  such  sentence  as  &quot;The  Inmitterm-ness  of  the  Lumpwelt  is  a  turning  toward  mis-  ery.&quot;  So  that  what  is  meant  here  by  &quot;ecstasy&quot;  is  something  on  the  order  of  &quot;fit,&quot;  but  a  kind  of  slow  one,  perhaps  a  semi-arrested  one,  and  one  that  is  divis-  ible  by  three.  &quot;Should  I  go  to  Acadia  and  remove  my  parents  from  there?  From  that  parking  place  where  they  havebeen  parked  since  1936?  It  is  true  that  they  are  well  connected  to  the   ground  now,  with  gas  and  water  lines  and  geraniums.  The  uprooting  would  be  considerable.  The  fear  ofthe  father's  frown.  That  deters  me.  He  is  happy  there,  as  far  as  I  know;  still  I  have  this  feeling  that  he  ought  to  be  res-  cued.  From  that  natural  beauty.&quot;  Then  Dan  came  in.  &quot;Dan  what  is  an  interrupted  screw?&quot;  Henry  asked.  &quot;An  interrupted  screw,&quot;  Dan  said,  &quot;is  a  screw  with  a  discontinuous  helix,  as  in  a  cannon  breech,  formed  by  cutting  away  part  or  parts  of  the  thread,  and  sometimes  part  of  the  shaft.  Used  with  a  lock  nut  having  corresponding  male  sections.&quot;  &quot;This  filthy,&quot;  Henry  said,  &quot;this  language  thinking  and  stinking  everlastingly  of  sex,  screw,  breech,  'part,'  shaft,  nut,  male,  itis  no  won-  der  we  are  all  going  round  the  bend  " b"with  this  language  dinning  forever  into  our  eyes  and  ears....&quot;  &quot;I  am  not  going  round  the  bed,&quot;  Dan  said,  &quot;not  me.&quot;  &quot;Round  the  bend,&quot;  Henry  said.  &quot;The  bend  not  the  bed.  How  is  it  that  I  said  'bend'  and  you  heard  'bed'?  You  see  what  I  mean,  it's  in-  escapable.&quot;  &quot;You  live  in  a  world  of  your  own  Henry,&quot;  Dan  said.  &quot;I  can  certainly  improve  on  what  was  given,&quot;  Henry  said.  &quot;'Those  men  hulking  hulk  in  closets  and  outside  gestures  eventu-  ating  against  a  white  screen  diffi-  culties  intelligence  I  only  want-  ed  one  plain  hero  of  incredible  size  and  soft,  flexible  manners  parts  thought  dissembling  limb  add  up  the  thumbprints  on  my  shoul-  ders  Seven  is  too  moves  too  much  and  is  absent  partly  different  levels  of  emotional  release  calculated  paroxysms  scug  dissolve  think-  ing  parts  of  faces  lower  area  of  [REDACTED]  from  the  nose's  bottom  to  the  line,  an  inch  from  the  chin  cliff  not  enough  ever  Extra  difficulty!  His  use  of  color!  Firmness  mirror  custody  of  the  blow  scale  model  I  concede  that  itis  to  a  de-  gree  instruments  adequate  dis-  tances  parched  to  touch  each  one  with  invisible  kindly  general-deliv-  ery  hands,  washing  motions  mirror  To  take  turns  and  then  say  'Thank  you'  congress  of  eyes  turning  with  a  firm,  soft  glance  up  Edward  never  extra  den-  sity  of  the  blanched  product  roll-  ing  tongue  child  straight  ahead  broken  exterior  facing  natural  gas  To  experience  a  defi-  nition  placed  neatly  where  you  can't  reach  it  and  higher  up  Daytime  experiences  choler  film  bliss&quot;  U  Jane  replaced  the  Hermes  Rocket  on  the  shelf.  Another  letter  completed.  That  made  twenty-five  letters  com-  pleted.  Only  eighteen  more  letters  to  complete.  She  had  tried  to  make  them  irritating  in  the  extreme,  She  reread  the  last  letter.  She  was  trembling.  It  was  irritating  in  the  extreme.  Jane  stopped  trembling.  There  was  Hogo  to  think  about,  now,  and  Jane  preferred  to  think  about  Hogo  without  trembling.  &quot;He  knows  when  I  tremble.  That  is  what  he  likes  best.&quot;  Hogo  drove  Jane  down  Meat  Street  in  his  cobra-green  Pontiac  convertible.  Nobody  likes  Hogo,  be-  cause  he  is  loathsome.  He  always  has  a  white  dog  sitting  upright  in  the  front  seat  of  the  car,  when  Jane  is  not  sitting  there.  Jane  likes  to  swing  from  the  lianas  that  dangle  from  the  Meat  Street  trees,  so  sometimes  she  is  not  sitting  there  and  the  dog  is  sitting  there  in-  stead.  &quot;For  God's  sake  can't  you  stay  put?&quot;  &quot;Sorry.&quot;  Jane  fingered  her  amu-  let.  &quot;That  caenaille  Hogo.  If  he  wants  an  exotic  girl  like  me  then  he  has  to  put  up  with  a  few  irregularities  from  time  to  time.&quot;  Hogo  is  not  very  simpatico-  not  much!  He  changed  his  name  to  Hogo  from  Roy  and  he  wears  an  Iron  Cross  T  shirt  and  we  suspect  him  of  some  sort  of  shady  underground  con-  nection  with  Paul-we  haven't  figured  out  exactly  what  yet.  &quot;Hogo  can  I  have  an  ice  cream-a  chocolate  swirl?&quot;  Hogo  took  the  chocolate  swirl  and  jammed  it  into  Jane's  mouth,  in  a  loathsome  way.  His  mother  loved  him  when  he  was  Roy,  but  now  that  he  is  Hogo  she  won't  even  speak  to  him,  if  she  can  help  it.  &quot;It  is  marvellous,&quot;  Snow  White  said  to  herself.  &quot;When  the  water  falls  on  my  tender  back.  The  white  meat  there.  Give  me  the  needle  spray.  First  the  hot,  and  then  the  cold.  A  thousand  tiny  points  of  perturbation.  More  perturba-  tion!  And  who  isit  with  me,  here  in  the  shower?  It  is  [REDACTED].  The  approach  is  [REDACTED]'s,  and  the  technique,  or  lack  of  it,  is  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  And  Hubert  waits  outside,  on  the  other  side  of  the  shower  curtain,  and  Henry  in  the  hall,  before  the  closed  door,  and  Edward  is  sitting  downstairs,  in  front  of  the  tele-  vision,  waiting.  But  what  of  Bill?  Why  is  it  that  Bill,  the  leader,  has  not  tapped  at  my  shower-stall  door,  in  recent  weeks?  Probably  because  of  his  new  re-  luctance  to  be  touched.  That  must  be  it.  [REDACTED]  you  are  downright  anti-erotic,  in  those  blue  jeans  and  chaps!  Artificial  insemination  would  be  more  interesting.  And  why  are  there  no  in-flight  movies  in  shower  stalls,  as  there  are  in  com-  mercial  aircraft?  Why  can't  I  watch  Ignace  Paderewski  in  'Moonlight  So-  nata'  through  a  fine  mist?  That  was  a  picture.  And  he  was  President  of  Po-  land  too.  That  must  have  been  inter-  esting.  Everything  in  life  is  interesting  except  [REDACTED]'s  idea  of  sexual  congress,  his  Western  confusion  between  the  concept  'pleasure'  and  the  concept  &quot;in-  creasing  the  size  of  the  herd.&quot;  But  the  water  on  my  back  is  interesting.  It  is  " b"more  than  interesting.  Marvellous  is  the  word  for  it.&quot;  There  were  some  straw  flowers  there.  D\xc3\xa9cor.  And  somebody  had  said  something  we  hadn't  heard,  but  Dan  was  very  excited.  &quot;I  praise  fruit  and  hold  flowers  in  disdain,&quot;  Apollinaire  said,  and  we  contrasted  that  with  what  LaGuardia  had  said.  Then  Bill  said  something:  &quot;Torch  in  the  [REDACTED];  He  was  very  drunk.  Other  people  said  other  things.  I  smoked  an  Old  Gold  cigarette.  It  is  always  better  when  ev-  erybody  is  calm,  but  calm  does  not  come  every  day.  Lamps  are  calm.  The  Secretary  of  State  is  calm.  Each  day  just  goes  so  fast,  begins  and  ends.  The  poignant  part  came  when  Edward  be-  gan  to  say  what  everybody  already  knew  about  him.  &quot;After  I  read  the  book,  I-&quot;  &quot;Don't  say  that  Edward,&quot;  Kevin  said.  &quot;Don't  say  anything  you'll  regret  later.&quot;  Bill  put  a  big  black  band-  age  over  Edward's  mouth,  and  [REDACTED]  took  off  all  his  clothes.  I  smoked  an  Old  Gold  cigarette,  the  same  one  I  had  been  smoking  before.  There  was  still  some  of  it  left  because  I  had  put  it  down  without  finishing  it.  Alicia  showed  us  her  pornographic  pastry.  Some  things  aren't  poignant  at  all  and  that  porno-  graphic  pastry  is  one  of  them.  Bill  was  trying  to  keep  the  tiredness  off  his  face.  I  wanted  to  get  out  of  this  talk  and  look  at  the  window.  But  Bill  had  some-     thing  else  to  say,  and  he  wasn't  going  to  leave  until  he  had  said  it,  I  could  see  that.  &quot;Well  it  is  a  pleasure  to  please  her,  when  human  ingenuity  can  man-  age  it,  but  the  whole  thing  is  just  trem-  bling  on  the  edge  of  monotony,  after  several  years.  And  yet  ...I  am  fond  of  her.  Yes,  I  am.  For  when  sexual  pleasure  is  had,  it  makes  you  fond,  in  a  strange  way,  of  the  other  one,  the  one  with  whom  you  are  having  it.&quot;  Snow  White  was  cleaning.  &quot;Book  lice  do  not  bite  people,&quot;  she  said  to  her-  self.  She  sprayed  the  books  with  a  five-  per-cent  solution  of  DDT.  Then  she  dusted  them  with  the  dusting  brush  of  the  vacuum  cleaner.  She  did  not  bang  the  books  together,  for  that  injures  the  bindings.  Then  she  oiled  the  bindings  with  neat's-foot  oil,  applying  the  oil  with  the  palm  of  her  hand  and  with  her  fingers.  Then  she  mended  some  torn  pages,  using  strips  cut  from  rice  paper.  She  ironed  some  rumpled  pages  with  a  warm  iron.  Fresh  molds  were  wiped  off  the  bindings  with  a  clean  soft  cloth  slightly  dampened  with  sherry.  Then  she  hung  a  bag  containing  para-  dichlorobenzene  in  the  bookcase,  toin-  hibit  mildew.  Then  Snow  White  cleaned  the  gas  range.  She  removed  the  pans  beneath  the  burners  and  grates  and  washed  them  thoroughly  in  hot  suds.  Then  she  rinsed  them  in  clear  wa-  ter  and  dried  them  with  paper  towels.  Using  washing  soda  and  a  stiff  brush,  she  cleaned  the  burners,  paying  particular  at-  tention  to  the  gas  orifices,  through  which  the  gas  flows.  She  cleaned  out  the  ports  with  a  hairpin,  rinsed  them  thoroughly,  and  dried  them  with  paper  towels.  Then  she  returned  thedrip  tray,  the  burners,  and  the  grates  to  their  proper  positions  and  lit  each  burner  to  make  sure  it  was  working.  Then  she  washed  the  inside  ofthe  broiler  compartment  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  warm  suds,  with  just  a  bit  of  am-  monia  to  help  cut  the  grease.  Then  sherinsed  the  broiler  compartment  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  clear  water  and  dried  it  with  paper  tow-  els.  The  pan  and  rack  of  the  broiler  were  done  in  the  same  way.  Then  Snow  White  cleaned  the  oven,  us-  ing  steel  woolon  the  tough  spots.  Then  she  rinsed  the  inside  of  the  oven  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  in  clear  water  and  dried  it  with  paper  towels.  Then,  &quot;pi-  ano  care.&quot;  WHAT  SNOW  WHITE  REMEMBERS:  THE  HUNTSMAN  THE  FORE43616e616461  THE  43616e616461EAMING  KNIFE  &quot;I  was  fair  once,&quot;  Jane  said.  &quot;I  was  the  fairest  of  them  all.  Men  came  from  miles  around  simply  to  be  in  my  power.  But  those  days  are  gone.  Those  better  days.  Now  I  cultivate  my  malice.  It  is  a  cultivated  malice,  not  the  pale  natural  malice  we  knew,  when  the  world  was  young.  I  grow  more  witchlike  as  the  hazy  days  imperceptibly  meld  into  one  another,  and  the  musky  months  sink  into  memory  asinto  a  slough,  sump,  or  slime.  But  I  have  my  malice.  I  have  that.  I  haveeven  invented  new  varie-  ties  of  malice,  that  men  have  not  seen  before  now.  Were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  I  am  the  sleepie  of  Hogo  de  Ber-  gerac,  I  would  be  total  malice.  But  I  am  redeemed  by  this  hopeless  love,  which  places  me  along  the  human  con-  tinuum,  still.  Even  Hogo  is,  I  think,  chiefly  enamored  of  my  malice,  that  artful,  richly  formed,  and  softly  poison-  ous  network  of  growths.  He  luxuriates  " b"in  the  pain  potential  I  am  surrounded  by.  I  think  I  will  just  sit  here  on  this  porch  swing,  now,  swinging  gently  in  the  moist  morning,  and  remember  'bet-  ter  days.  Then  a  cup  of  Chinese-res-  taurant  tea  at  10  a.m.  Then,  back  into  the  swing  for  more  'better  days.&quot;  Yes,  that  would  be  a  pleasant  way  to  spend  the  forenoon.&quot;  At  the  horror  show  Hubert  put  his  hand  in  Snow  White's  lap.  A  shy  and  tentative  gesture.  She  let  it  lay  there.  It  was  warm  there,  and  we  had  brought  a  thermos  of  glittering  Gibsons,  to  make  us  happy  insofar  as  possible.  Hubert  re-  membered  the  Trout  Amandine  he  had  had  the  day  the  ball  was  sticking  to  Kevin's  leg.  It  had  been  extremely  tasty,  that  trout.  And  Hubert  remem-  bered  the  conversation  in  which  he  had  said  that  God  was  cruel,  and  someone  else  had  said  vague,  and  they  had  pulled  the  horse  off  the  road,  and  then  they  had  seen  a  Polish  picture.  But  this  pic-  ture  was  better  than  that  one,  allowing  for  the  fact  that  we  had  experienced  that  one  in  translation,  and  not  in  the  naked  Polish.  Snow  White  is  agitated.  She  is  worried  about  something  called  her  &quot;reputation.&quot;  What  will  people  think,  why  have  we  allowed  her  to  be-  come  a  public  scandal,  we  must  not  be  seen  in  public  e\xc2\xbb  famille,  no  one  be-  lieves  that  she  is  simply  a  housekeeper,  etc.,  etc.  These  concerns  are  ludicrous.  No  one  cares.  When  she  is  informed  that  our  establishment  has  excited  no  special  interest  in  the  neighborhood,  she  is  bitterly  disappointed.  She  sulks  in  her  room,  reading  Teilhard  de  Chardin  and  thinking.  &quot;My  suffering  is  authentic  enough  but  it  has  a  kind  of  low-grade  concrete-block  quality.  The  seven  of  them  only  add  up  to  the  equivalent  of  about  two  real  men,  as  we  know  them  from  the  films  and  from  our  childhood,  when  there  were  giants  on  the  earth.  It  is  possible  of  course  that  there  are  no  more  real  men  here,  on  this  ball  of  half-truths,  the  earth.  That  would  be  a  disappointment.  One  would  have  to  content  oneself  with  the  subtle  falsity  of  color  films  of  unhappy  love  affairs,  made  in  [REDACTED],  with  a  Mozart  score.  That  would  be  difficult.&quot;  Miseries  and  complaints  of  Snow  White:  &quot;I  am  tired  of  being  just  a  horsewife!&quot;  U  Dear  Mr.  QuisToaarp:  Although  you  do  not  know  me  my  name  is  Jane.  I  have  seized  your  name  from  the  telephone  book  in  an  attempt  to  enmesh  you  in  my  concerns.  We  suffer  today  I  believe  from  a  lack  of  connection  witheach  other.  That  is  common  knowledge,  so  common,  in  fact,  that  it  may  not  even  be  true.  It  may  be  that  we  are  overconnected,  for  all  I  know.  However  I  am  acting  on  the  first  assumption,  that  we  are  under-  connected,  and  thus  have  flung  you  these  lines,  which  you  may  grasp  or  let  fall  as  you  will.  But  I  feel  that  if  you  neglect  them  you  will  suffer  for  it.  That  is  merely  my  private  opinion.  No  police  power  supports  it.  I  have  no  means  of  punishing  you,  Mr.  Quist-  gaard,  for  not  listening,  for  having  a  closed  heart.  There  is  no  punishment  for  that,  in  our  society.  Not  yet.  But  to  the  point.  You  and  I,  Mr.  Quist  gaard,  are  not  in  the  same  universe  of  discourse.  You  may  not  have  been  aware  of  it  previously,  but  the  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  we  are  not.  We  exist  in  different  universes  of  discourse.  Now  it  may  have  appeared  to  you,  prior  to  your  receipt  of  this  letter,  that  the  uni-  verse  of  discourse  in  which  you  existed,  and  puttered  about,  was  in  all  ways adequate  and  satisfactory.  It  may  never  have  crossed  your  mind  to  think  that  other  universes  of  discourse  distinct  from  your  own  existed,  with  people  in  them,  discoursing.  You  may  have,  in  a  commonsense  way,  regarded  your  own  u.  of  d.  as  a  plenum,  filled  to  the  brim  with  discourse.  You  may  have  felt  that  what  already  existed  was  a  sufficiency.  People  like  you  often  do.  That  is  cer-  tainly  one  way  of  regarding  it,  if  fat  self-satisfied  complacency  is  your  aim.  But  I  say  unto  you,  Mr.  Quistgaard,  that  even  a  plenum  can  leak.  Even  a  plenum,  cher  maitre,  can  be  penetrated.  New  things  can  rush  into  your  plenum  displacing  old  things,  things  that  were  formerly  there.  No  man's  plenum,  Mr.  Quistgaard,  is  impervious  to  the  awl  of  God's  will.  Consider  then  your  situa-  tion  zow.  You  are  sitting  there  in  your  house  on  Neat  Street,  with  your  fine  dog,  doubtless,  and  your  handsome  wife  and  tall  brown  sons,  conceivably,  and  who  knows  with  your  gun-colored  Plymouth  Fury  in  the  driveway,  and  opinions  passing  back  and  forth,  about  whether  the  Grange  should  build  a  new  meeting  hall  or  not,  whether  the  chil- " b"dren  should  become  Thomists  or  not,  whether  the  pump  needs  more  cup  grease  or  not.  A  comfortable  556e6974656420537461746573n  scene.  But  I,  Jane  Villiers  de  PIsle-  Adam,  am  inpossessionof  your  tele-  phone  number,  Mr.  Quist  gaard.  Think  what  that  means.  It  means  that  at  any  moment  I  can  pierce  your  plenum  with  a  single  telephone  call,  simply  by  dial-  ling  989-7777.  You  are  correct,  Mr.  Quistgaard,  in  seeing  this  as  a  threaten-  ing  situation.  The  moment  I  inject  dis-  course  from  my  u.  of  d.  into  your  u.  of  d.,  the  yourness  of  yours  is  diluted.  The  more  I  inject,  the  more  you  dilute.  Soon  you  will  be  presiding  over  an  emp-  ty  plenum,  or  rather,  since  that  is  a  contradiction  in  terms,  over  a  former  plenum,  in  terms  of  yourness.  You  are,  essentially,  in  my  power.  I  suggest  an  unlisted  number,  Yours  faithfully,  Jane  PAUL:  A  FRIEND  OF  THE  FAMILY  &quot;Is  there  someplace  I  can  put  this?&quot;  Paul  asked  indicating  the  large  parcel  he  held  in  his  arms.  &quot;It  is  a  new  thing  I  just  finished  today,  still  a  little  wet  I'm  afraid.&quot;  He  wiped  his  hands,  which  were  covered  with  emulsions,  on  his  trousers.  &quot;I'll  just  lean  it  up  against  your  wall  for  a  moment.&quot;  Paul  leaned  the  new  thing  up  against  our  wall  for  a  moment.  The  new  thing,  a  dirty  great   prision  banality  in  white,  poor-white,  and  off-  white,  leaned  up  against  the  wall.  &quot;In-  teresting,&quot;  we  said.  &quot;It's  poor,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;Poor,  poor.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Paul  said,  &quot;one  of  my  poorer  things  I  think.&quot;  &quot;Not  so  poor  of  course  as  yesterday's,  poorer  on  the  other  hand  than  some,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Paul  said,  'it  has  some  of  the  qualities  of  poorness.&quot;  &quot;Espe-  cially  poor  in  the  lower-left-hand  cor-  ner,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Paul  said,  &quot;I  would  go  so  far  asto  hurl  it  into  the  marketplace.&quot;  &quot;They're  getting  poor-  er,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Poorer  and  poorer,&quot;  Paul  said  with  satisfaction,  &quot;descending  to  unexplored  depths  of  poorness  where  no  human  intelligence  hasever  been.&quot;  &quot;I  find  it  extremely  interesting  as  a  so-  cial  phenomenon,&quot;  Snow  White  said,  &quot;to  note  that  during  the  height  of  what  is  variously  called  abstract  expression-  ism,  action  painting,  and  so  forth,  when  most  artists  were  grouped  together  in  a  school,  you  have  persisted  in  an  image  alone.  That,  I  find-and  I  think  it  has  been  described  as  hard-edge  painting-  is  an  apt  description,  although  it  leaves  out  a  lot,  but  I  find  it  very  interesting  that  in  the  last  few  years  there  is  a  tremendous  new  surge  of  work  being  done  in  the  hard-edge  image.  I  don't  know  if  you  want  to  comment  on  that,  but  I  find  it  extremely  interesting  that  you,  who  have  always  been  sure  of  yourself  and  your  image,  were  one  of  the  earliest,  almost  a  founder  of  that  school,  if  you  can  even  call  it  a  school.&quot;  &quot;I  have  always  been  sure  of  myself  and  my  image,&quot;  Paul  said.  &quot;Sublimely  poor,&quot;  she  murmured,  &quot;Wallpaper,&quot;  he  said.  They  kissed.  We  trudged  to  bed  then  singing  the  to-bed  song  heigh-ho.  She  was  lying  there  in  her  black  vinyl  pajamas.  &quot;He  is  certainly  a  well-inte-  grated  personality,  Paul,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  we  said.  &quot;He  makes  contact,  you  must  grant  him  that.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  we  said.  &quot;A  beautiful  human  being.&quot;  &quot;Carry-  ing  a  mace  is  a  bit  much,  perhaps,&quot;  we  said.  &quot;We  are  fortunate  to  have  him  in  our  country,&quot;  she  concluded.  Then  we  went  over  to  Paul's  place  and  took  the  typewriter.  Then  the  problem  was  to  find  somebody  to  sell  it  to.  It  was  a  fine  Olivetti  22,  that  type-  writer,  and  the  typewriter  girls  put  it  under  their  skirts.  Then  George  want-  ed  to  write  something  on  it  while  it  was  under  their  skirts.  I  think  he  just  want-  ed  to  get  under  there,  because  he  likes  Amelia's  legs.  He  is  always  looking  at  them  and  patting  them.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  write  under  there  George?&quot;  &quot;I  thought  perhaps  some  automatic  writing,  because  one  can't  see  so  well  under  here  with  the  light  being  stran-  gled  by  the  thick  wool,  and  I  touch-  type  well  enough,  but  I  can't  see  to  think,  soI  thought  that  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Well  we  can't  sell  this  typewriter  if  you're  typing  on  it  under  Amelia's  legs,  so  come  out  of  there.  And  bring  the  carbon  paper  too  because  the  carbon  paper  makes  black  smudges  on  Amelia's  legs  and  she  doesn't  want  that.  Not  now.&quot;  We  all  had  our  hands  on  the  typewriter  when  it  emerged  because  it  had  been  in  that  pure  grotto,  Paul's  place,  and  tomor-  row  we  are  going  to  go  there  again  and  steal  the  elevator  cage  this  time,  so  that  he  can't  come  down  into  the  street  anymore,  with  his  pretensions.  &amp;C  ES,&quot;  Bill  said,  &quot;I  wanted  to  be  great,  once.  But  the  moon  for  that  was  not  in  my  sky,  then.  I  had  hoped  to  make  a  powerful  statement.  But  there  was  no  wind,  no  weeping.  I  had  hoped  to  make  a  powerful  state-  ment,  coupled  with  a  moving  plea.  But  there  was  no  weeping,  except,  perhaps,  concealed  weeping.  Perhaps  they  wept  in  the  evenings,  after  dinner,  in  the  family  room,  among  the  family,  each  in  his  own  chair,  weeping.  A  certain  diffi-  dence  still  clings  to  these  matters.  You  laughed,  sitting  in  your  chair  with  your  purple  plywood  spectacles,  your  iced  tea.  I  had  hoped  to  make  a  significant  con-  tribution.  But  they  remained  stony-  faced.  Did  I  make  a  mistake,  selecting  [REDACTED]?  I  had  hoped  to  bring  about  a  heightened  awareness,  I  saw  their  smiling  faces.  They  were  going  gaily  to  the  grocery  for  peanut  oil,  Band-Aids,  " b"Saran  Wrap.  My  census  of  tears  was  still  incomplete.  Why  had  I  selected  [REDACTED],  city  of  concealed  meaning?  In  Calais  they  weep  openly,  on  street  corners,  under  trees,  in  the  banks.  I  wanted  to  provide  a  definitive  account.  But  my  lecture  was  not  a  success.  Men  came  to  fold  the  folding  chairs,  although  I  was  still  speaking.  You  laughed.  I  should  talk  about  things  people  were  in-  terested  in,  you  said.  I  wanted  to  achieve  a  breakthrough.  My  penetrating  study  was  to  have  been  a  masterly  evocation,  sobs  and  cries,  these  things  matter.  I  had  in  mind  initiating  a  multi-faceted  program  involv-  ing  paper  towels  and  tears.  I  came  into  the  room  suddenly,  you  were  weeping.  You  slipped  something  out  of  sight,  under  the  pillow.  &quot;\xc2\xa9  'What  is  under  the  pil-  low?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;  'Nothing,'  you  said.  &quot;I  reached  under  the  pil-  low  with  my  hand.  You  grasped  my  wrist.  An  alarm  clock  spread  the  alarm.  I  rose  to  go.  My  survey  of  the  incidence  of  weeping  in  the  bedrooms  of  members  of  the  faculty  of  the  University  of  [REDACTED]  was  methodologi-  cally  sound  but  informed,  you  said,  by  too  little  compassion.  You  laughed,  in  your  room,  pulling  from  under  the  pillow  grainy  gray  photo-  graphs  in  albums,  pictures  of  people  weeping.  I  wanted  to  effect  a  rap-  prochement,  I  wanted  to  reconcile  ir-  reconcilable  forces.  What  is  the  reward  for  knowing  the  worst?  The  reward  for  knowing  the  worst  is  an  hon-  orary  degree  from  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  salt  tears  in  a  little  bottle.  I  wanted  to  engage  in  a  meaningful  dialogue,  but  the  seminal  thinkers  I  contacted  were  all  shaken  with  sobs,  racked  is  the  word  for  it.  Why  did  we  conceal  that  emotion  which,  had  we  declared  it,  could  have  liberated  us?  There  are  no  parameters  for  measuring  the  importance  of  this  question.  My  life-enhancing  poem  was  mildly  mere-  tricious,  as  you  predicted.  I  wanted  to  substantiate  an  unsubstantiated  report.  I  listened  to  the  Blue  Network,  I  heard  weeping.  I  wanted  to  make  suitable  ar-  rangements  but  those  whose  lives  I  had  thought  to  arrange  did  not  appear  on  the  appointed  day.  They  were  deployed  elsewhere  marching  and  counter-  marching  on  fields  leased  from  the  Police  Athletic  League.  I  was  perhaps  not  lucky  enough.  I  wanted  to  make  a  far-  reaching  reEvaluation.  I  had  in  mind  launching  a  three-pronged  assault,  but  the  prongs  wandered  off,  seduced  by  fires  and  clowns.  It  was  hell  there,  in  the  furnace  of  my  ambition.  It  was  be-  cause,  you  said,  I  had  read  the  wrong  book.  He  reversed  himself  in  his  last  years,  you  said,in  the  books  no  one  would  publish.  But  his  students  remem-  ber,  you  said.&quot;  THE  REVOLUTION  OF  THE  PA43616e616461  GEN-  ERATION  IN  THE  RELIGIOUS  SCIENCES  HAS  SCARCELY  PENETRATED  POPULAR  CcONSCIOUSNESS  AND  HAS  YET  TO  SIGNIFICANTLY  INFLUENCE  PUBLIC  ATTITUDES  THAT  RE43616e616461  UPON  TOTALLY  OUTMODED  CONCEPTIONS.  Paul  sat  in  his  baff,  wondering  what  to  do  next.  &quot;Well,  what  shall  I  do  next?  What  is  the  next  thing  demanded  of  me  by  history?&quot;  If  you  know  who  it  is  they  are  whispering  about,  then  you  usually  don't  like  it.  If  Paul  wants  to  become  a  monk,  that's  his  affair  en-  tirely.  Of  course  we  had  hoped  that  he  would  take  up  his  sword  as  part  of  the  President's  war  on  poetry.  The  time  is  ripe  for  that.  The  root  causesof  poetry  have  been  studied  and  studied.  And  now  that  we  know  that  pockets  of  poetry  still  exist  in  our  great  country,  especially  in  the  large  urban  centers,  we  ought  to  be  able  to  wash  it  out  total-  ly  in  one  generation,  if  we  put  our  backs  into  it.  But  we  were  prepared  to  hide  our  disappointment.  'The  decision  is  Paul's  finally.  &quot;Are  those  broken  veins  in  my  left  cheek,  above  the  cheekbone  there?  No,  thank  God,  they  are  only  tiny  whiskers  not  yet  whisked  away.  Missed  in  yesterday's  scrape,  but  vulnerable  to  the  scrape  of  today.&quot;  Be-  sides,  most  people  are  not  verywell  in-  formed  about  the  cloistered  life.  Cer-  tainly  they  can  have  light  bulbs  if  they  want  them,  and  their  rivers  and  moun-  tains  are  not  inferior  to  our  own.  &quot;''They  make  interesting  jam,&quot;  Hank  said.  &quot;But  it's  his  choice,  in  the  final  " b"analysis.  Anyhow,  we  have  his  type-  writer.  That  much  of  him  is  ours,  now.&quot;&quot;  People  were  caressing  each  other  under  Paul's  window.  &quot;Why  are  all  these  people  existing  under  my  win-  dow?  It  is  as  if  they  were  as  palpable  as  me-as  bloody,  as  firm,  as  well-  read.&quot;  Monkish  business  will  carry  him  to  town  sometimes;  perhaps  we  will  be  able  to  see  him  then.  &quot;Mother  can  I  go  over  to  Hogo's  and  play?&quot;  &quot;No  Jane  Hogo  is  not  the  right  type  of  young  man  for  you  to  play  with.  He  is  thirty-five  now  and  that  is  tooold  for  innocent  play.  I  am  afraid  he  knows  some  kind  of  play  that  is  not  innocent,  and  will  want  you  to  play  it  with  him,  and  then  you  will  agree  in  your  ignorance,  and  then  the  fat  will  be  in  the  fire.  That  is  the  way  I  have  the  situation  figured  out  any-  how.  That  is  my  reading  of  it.  That  is  the  way  it  looks  from  where  I  stand.&quot;  &quot;Mother  all  thisfalse  humility  does  not  become  you  any  more  than  that  mucky  old  poor  little  match-girl  dress  you  are  wearing.&quot;  &quot;This  dress  'll  have  you  know  cost  two  hundred  and  forty  dollars  when  it  was  new.&quot;  &quot;When  was  it  new?&quot;  &quot;It  was  new  in  1918,  the  year  your  father  and  I  were  in  the  trenches  together,  in  the  Great  War.  That  was  a  war  all  right.  Oh  I  know  there  have  been  other  wars  since,  bet-  ter-publicized  ones,  more  expensive  ones  perhaps,  but  our  war  is  the  one  I'll  al-  ways  remember.  Our  war  is  the  one  that  means  war  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Mother  I  know  Hogo  is  thirty-five  and  thorough-  ly  bad  through  and  through  but  still  there  is  something  drawing  me  to  him.  To  his  house.  To  the  uninnocence  I  know  awaits  me  there.&quot;  &quot;Simmer  down  child.  There  is  a  method  in  my  mean-  ness.  By  refusing  to  allow  you  to  go  to  Hogo's  house,  I  will  draw  Hogo  here,  to  your  house,  where  we  can  smother  him  in  blueberry  fe\xc2\xbb  and  otherkind-  nesses,  and  generally  work  on  him,  and  beat  the  life  out  of  him,  in  one  way  or  another.&quot;  &quot;That's  shrewd  Mother.&quot;  The  poem  remained  between  us  like  an  immense,  wrecked  railroad  car.  &quot;Touching  the  poem,&quot;  we  said,  &quot;is  it  rhymed  or  free?&quot;  &quot;Free,&quot;  Snow  White  said,  &quot;free,  free,  free.&quot;  &quot;And  the  theme?&quot;  &quot;One  of  the  great  themes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;That  is  all  I  can  reveal  at  this  time.&quot;  &quot;Could  you  tell  us  the  first  word?&quot;  &quot;The  first  word,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;is  'bandaged  and  wounded.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;But  ...&quot;  &quot;Run  together,&quot;  she  said.  We  mentally  reviewed  the  great  themes  in  the  light  of  the  word  or  words  &quot;bandaged  and wounded.&quot;  &quot;How  is  it  that  bandage  precedes  wound?&quot;  &quot;A  metaphor  of  the  self  armoring  it-  self  against  the  gaze  of  the  Other.&quot;  &quot;The  theme  is  loss,  we  take  it.&quot;  &quot;What,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;else?&quot;  &quot;Are  you  spe-  cific  as  to  what  is  lost?&quot;  &quot;Brutally.&quot;  &quot;Snow  White,&quot;  we  said,  &quot;why  do  you  remain  with  us?!  Here?  In  this  house?&quot;  There  was  a  silence.  Then  she  said,  &quot;It  must  be  laid,  I  suppose,  to  a  failure  of  the  imagina-  tion.  I  have  not  been  able  to  imagine  anything  better.&quot;  I  have  not  been  able  to  imagine  anything  better.  We  were  pleased  by  this  powerful  state-  ment  of  our  essential  mutuality,  which  can  never  be  sundered  or  torn,  or  broken  apart,  dissipated,  diluted,  cor-  rupted,  or  finally  sev-  ered,  not  evenby  art  in  its  manifold  and  dread-  ful  guises.  &quot;But  my  imagination  is  stirring,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;Like  the  long-sleeping  stock  cer-  tificate  suddenly  alive  in  its  green  safe-  deposit  box  because  of  new  investor  interest,  my  imagination  is  stirring.  Be  warned.&quot;  Something  was  certainly  wrong,  we  felt.  THE  HORSEWIFE  IN  HI43616e616461ORY  FAMOUS  HORSEWIVES  THE  HORSEWIFE:  A  SPIRITUAL  PORTRAIT  THE  HORSEWIFE:  A  CRITICAL  43616e616461UDY  FIR43616e616461  MOP,  4000  BC  VIEWS  OF  [REDACTED].  AUGU43616e616461INE  VIEWS  OF  THE  VENERABLE  BEDE  EMERSON  ON  THE  AMERICAN  HORSEWIFE  OXFORD  COMPANION  TO  THE  AMERICAN  HORSEWIFE  INTRODUCTION  OF  BON  AMI,  1892  HORSEWIVES  ON  HORSEWIFERY  ACCEPT  ROLE,  PSYCHOLOGI43616e616461  URGES  THE  PLA43616e616461IC  BAG  THE  GARLIC  PRESS  Bill  has  developed  a  shamble,  The  consequence,  some  say,  of  a  lost  mind.  " b"But  that  is  not  true.  In  the  midst  of  so  much  that  is  true,  it  is  refreshing  to  shamble  across  something  that  is  not  true,  He  does  not  want  to  be  touched.  But  he  is  entitled  to  an  idiosyncrasy.  He  has  earned  it  by  his  vigorous  leader-  ship  in  that  great  enterprise,  his  life.  And  in  that  other  great  enterprise,  our  love  for  Snow  White.  &quot;This  thing  is  damaging  to  all  of  us,&quot;  Bill  noted.  &quot;We  were  all  born  in  National  Parks.  [REDACTED]  has  his  memories  of  Yosemite,  inspiring  gorges.  Kevin  remembers  the  Great  Smokies.  Henry  has  his  Acadian  songs  and  dances,  Dan  his  burns  from  Hot  Springs.  Hubert  has  climbed  the  giant  Sequoias,  and  Edward  has  climbed  stately  Rainier.  And  I,  I  know  the  Everglades,  which  everybody  knows.  These  common  experiences  have  yoked  us  together  forever  under  the  red-  white-and-blue.&quot;  Then  we  summoned  up  all  our  human  understanding,  from  those  regions  where  it  customarily  dwelt.  &quot;Love  has  died  here,  apparent-  ly,&quot;  Bill  said  significantly,  &quot;and  it  is  our  task  to  infuse  it  once  again  with  the  hot  orange  breath  of  life.  With  that  in  mind  I  have  asked  Hogo  de  Bergerac  to  come  over  and  adviseus  on  what  should  be  done.  He  knows  the  deaths  of  the  heart,  Hogo  does.  And  he  knows  the  terror  of  aloneness,  and  the  rot  of  propinquity,  and  the  absence  of  grace.  He  should  be  here  tomorrow.  He  will  be  wearing  blueberry  fier  on  his  but-  tonhole.  That  is  how  we  are  to  know  him.  That  and  his  vileness.&quot;  Hogo  was  reading  a  book  of  atrocity  stories.  &quot;God,  what  filthy  beasts  we  were,&quot;  he  thought,  &quot;then.  What  a  thing  it  must  have  been  to  be  a  Hun!  A  filthy  Boche!  And  then  to  turn  around  and  be  a  Nazi!  A  gray  vermin!  And  today?  We  coexist,  we  coexist.  Filthy  Deutschemarks!  That  so  eclipse  the  very  mark  and  texture  .  ..  That  so  eclipse  the  very  mark  and  bosom  of  a  man,  that  vileness  herself  is  vilely  cer-  thrown.  That  so  enfold  ..  .  That  so  en-  scrap  ...  Bloody  Deutschemarks!  That  so  enwrap  the  very  warp  and  texture  of  a  man,  that  what  we  cherished  in  him,  vileness,  is...  dies,  its  ginger  o'er-  thrown.  Bald  pelf!  That  so  ingurgi-  tates  the  very  wrack  and  mixture  of  a  man,  that  in  him  the  sweet  stings  of  vileness  are,  all  ginger  fled,  he  ...&quot;  Henry  walked  home  with  his  suit  in  a  plastic  bag.  He  had  been  washing  the  buildings.  But  something  was  stirring  in  him,  a  wrinkle  in  the  groin.  He  was  carrying  his  bucket  too,  and  his  ropes.  But  the  wrinkle  in  his  groin  was  mon-  strous.  &quot;Now  it  is  necessary  to  court her,  and  win  her,  and  put  on  this  clean  suit,  and  cut  my  various  nails,  and  drink  something  that  will  kill  the  mil-  lions  of  germs  in  my  mouth,  and  say  something  flattering,  and  be  witty  and  bonny,  and  hale  and  kinky,  and  pay  her  a  thousand  dollars,  all  just  to  ease  this  wrinkle  in  the  groin.  It  seems  a  high  price.&quot;  Henry  let  his  mind  stray  to  his  groin.  Then  he  let  his  mind  stray  to  her  groin.  Do  girls  have  groins?  The  wrinkle  was  still  there.  &quot;The  remedy  of  Origen.  That  is  still  open  to  one.  That  door,  at  least,  has  not  been  shut.&quot;  Kevin  was  being  &quot;understanding.&quot;  We  spend  a  lot  of  our  time  doing  that.  And  even  more  of  our  time,  now  that  we  have  these  problems.  'Yes  that's  the  way  it  is  [REDACTED],&quot;  Kevin  said  to  his friend  [REDACTED].  &quot;That's  the  way  it  is.  You  tell  it  like  it  is  [REDACTED]  baby.&quot;  Kevin  said  a  lot  more  garbage  to  [REDACTED].  Pea-  cocks  walked  through  the  yard  in  their  gold  suits.  &quot;Sometimes  I  see  signs  on  walls  saying  Kill  the  Rich,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said.  &quot;And  sometimes  Kil  the  Rich  has  been  crossed  out  and  Harm  the  Rich  written  underneath.  A  clear  gain  for  civiliza-  tion  I  would  say.  On  the  other  hand  I  myself  have  impulses  toward  violence  uneasily  concealed.  Especially  when  I  look  out  of  the  window  at  the  men  and  women  walking  there.  I  see  a  great  many  couples,  men  and  women,  walk-  ing  along  in  the  course  of  a  day  because  I  spend  so  much  time,  as  we  all  do,  looking  out  of  windows  to  determine  what  is  out  there,  and  what  should  be  done  about  it.  Oh  it  is  killing  me  the  way  they  walk  down  the  street  togeth-  er,  laughing  and  talking,  those  men  and  women.  Pushing  the  pram  too,  whether  the  man  is  doing  it  or  the  woman  is  doing  it.  Normal  life.  And  a  fine  October  chill  in  the  air.  It  is  un-  bearable,  this  consensus,  this  damned  felicity.  When  I  see  a  couple  fighting  I  give  them  a  dollar,  because  fighting  is  interesting.  Thank  God  for  fighting.&quot;  &quot;That's  true  Roger,&quot;  Kevin  said  a  hun-  dred  times.  Then  he  was  covered  with  embarrassment.  &quot;No  I  mean  that's  true  [REDACTED].  Excuse  me.  Roger  is  some-  body  else.  You're  not  Roger.  You're  " b" [REDACTED].  That's  true  [REDACTED].&quot;  More  pea-  cocks  walked  through  the  yard  in  their  splendid  plumage.  We  opened  eggs  to  let  the  yellow  out.  Bill  was  worried  about  the  white  part,  but  we  told  him  not  to  worry  about  that.  &quot;People  do  it  every  day,&quot;  Edward  said.  The  giant  meringue  rose  to  the  ceiling.  We  were  all  in  it.  Dan  turned  off  the  television  set.  &quot;You  can't  cook  according  to  what  that  wom-  an  says.  She  never  has  the  proportions  right,  and  I  don'tthink  there  ought  to  be  cannabis  in  this  meringue  anyhow.&quot;  &quot;I  just  don't  like  your  world,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;A  world  in  which  such  things  can  happen.&quot;  We  gave  her  the  yellows,  but  she  still  wasn't  satisfied.  It's  easy  enough  to  motivate  policemen  if  you  give  them  votes  and  scooters  to  ride  about  on,  but  soldiers  are  a  little  more  difficult.  More  soldiers.  Cash  their  checks!  Just  because  they  are  sol-  diers  is  no  reason  for  not  cashing  their  checks.  Philippe  laid  down  his  M-16,  his  M-21,  his  M-2,  and  his  fully  auto-  matic  M-9.  Then  he  laid  down  his  M-10  and  his  M-34  with  its  mouthfed  adapter.  Then  he  laid  down  his  M-4  and  his  M-3.  It  made  a  pile,  that  hard-  ware.  &quot;Well  I  suppose  that  identifies  you,&quot;  the  girl  behind  the  wall  said.  Then  she  gave  him  his  money,  and  gave  the  other  men  their  money  too.  We  were  amazed  that  the  performance  was  allowed  to  continue.  There  were  a  lot  of  things  against  the  government  in  it.  We  gave  Snow  White  the  yellows  in  an  aluminum  container.  But  she  still  wasn't  satisfied.  That  is  the  essential  point  here,  that  she  wasn't  satisfied.  I  don't  know  what  to  do  next.  The  psychology  of  Snow  White:  What  does  she  hope  for?  &quot;Some  day  my  prince  will  come.&quot;  By  this  Snow  White  means  that  she  lives  her  own  being  as  incomplete,  pending  the  arrival  of  one  who  will  &quot;complete&quot;  her.  That  is,  she  lives  her  own  being  as  &quot;not-with&quot;  (even  though  she  is  in  some  sense  &quot;with&quot;  the  seven  men,  Bill,  Kevin,  [REDACTED],  Hubert,  Henry,  Edward,  and  Dan).  But  the  &quot;not-with&quot;  is  experi-  enced  as  stronger,  more  real,  at  this  particular  instant  in  time  than  the  &quot;being-with.&quot;  The  incompleteness  is  an  ache  capable  of  subduing  all  other  data  presented  by  consciousness.  I  don't  go  along  with  those  theories  of  histori-  cal  necessity  which  suggest  that  her  actions  are  dictated  by  &quot;forces&quot;  outside  of  the  individual.  That  doesn't  sound  reasonable,  in  this  case.  Irruption  of  the  magical  in  the  life  of  Snow  White:  Snow  White  knows  a  singing  bone.  The  singing  bone  has  told  her  various  stories  which  have  left  her  troubled  and  confused-of  a  bear  transformed  into  a  king's  son,  of  an  immense  treasure  at  the  bottom  of  a  brook,  of  a  crystal  casket  in  which  there  is  a  cap  that  makes  the  wearer  invisible.  This  must  not  continue.  The  behavior  of  the  bone  is  unacceptable.  The  bone  must  be  persuaded  to  confine  itself  to  events  and  effects  susceptible  of  confirmation  by  the  instrumentarium  of  the  physical  sciences.  Someone  must  reason  with  the  bone.  &quot;I  am  being  followed  by  a  nun  in  a  black  station  wagon.&quot;  Bill  wiped  his  hands  on  the  seat  covers.  &quot;I  cannot  fall  apart  now.  Not  vet.  I  must  hold  the  whole  thing  together.  Everything  de-  pends  on  me.  I  must  conceal  my  wounds,  contrive  to  appear  unwound-  ed.  They  must  not  know.  The  bloody  handkerchief  stuffed  under  the  shirt.  Now  she  signals  a  right  turn.  Now  I  will  make  a  left  turn.  That  way  I  shall  escape  her.  But  she  makes  a  left  turn  too!  There  it  is.  That  does  it.  She  is  following  me.  Following  the  spiritual  spoor  of  my  invisible  wounds.  Is  she  the  greatblack  horse  for  which  I  have  waited  all  my  days,  since  I  was  twelve  years  old?  The  great  devouring  black  horse?  Of  course  not.  Don't  be  ridicu-  lous  Bill.  You  are  behaving  like  a  fool.  She  is  nothing  like  a  black  horse.  She  is  simply  a  woman  in  a  black  dress,  in  a  black  station  wagon.  That  she  signals  for  aright  turn  and  then  makes  a  left  turn  means  nothing  at  all.  Don't  think  about  it.  Think  about  leadership.  No,  don't  think  about  leadership.  If  you  hang  a  right  at  this  corner  ...  No,  she  hung  a  right  too.  Don't  think  about  it.  Don't  think.  Turn  on  the  radio.  Think  about  what  the  radio  is  telling  you.  Think  about  the  various  messages  to  be  found  there.&quot;  I'm  not  her  cup  of  tea  I'm  afraid  Ah  ahahahah  I'll  find  a  way  somehow  in  my  lone-  ly  room  Ah  ahah  ahah  Emily  Dickinson,  why  have  you  left  me  and  gone  Ah  ah  ah  ahah  Emily  Dickinson,  don't  you  know  what  we  could  have  meant  Ah  ah  ah  ah  ah  &quot;Hello  Hogo.&quot;  &quot;Hello  chaps.&quot;  &quot;The  floor  is  yours  Hogo.&quot;  &quot;Well  chaps  first  I'd  like  to  say  a  few  vile  things  more  or  less  at  random,  not  only  because  it  is  expected  of  me  but  also  because  I  enjoy  it.  One  of  them  is  that  this  bint  you've  " b"got  here,  although  I've  never  seen  her  with  my  own  eyes,  is  probably  not  worth  worrying  about.  Now  excuse  me  if  I'm  treading  on  your  toes  in  this  matter.  Now  God  knows  I  love  a  fe-  male  gesture  as  much  as  any  man,  as  when,  for  instance,  sitting  in  the  front  seat  of  acar  in  their  bikini,  they  kind  of  shrug  themselves  into  a  street  shift  be-  fore  getting  out,  or  while  the  car  door  is  open  but  they  haven't  gotten  out  yet;  and  if  you  happen  to  be  looking  out  of  a  window  of  a  house  near  the  curb,  or  if  you  can  move  your  window  nearer  the  curb,  you  can  sometimes  see  one  sitting  in  her  absolute  underwear,  in  the  hot  weather,  and  then  going  through  that  'shrugging'  business,  and  sort  of  hitching  the  shift  up  over  her  hips,  and  then  shaking  her  head  to  get  the  hair  to  fall  the  right  way,  and  all  that.  And  all  this  is  the  best  that  has  been  thought  and  said,  in  my  opinion,  or  ever  will  be  thought  and  said,  for  the  only  thing  worth  a  rap  in  the  whole  world  is  the  beauty  of  women,  and  maybe  certain  foods,  and  possibly  music  of  all  kinds,  especially  'cheap'  music  such  as  that  furnished  at  parades  by  for  instance  the  St.  Pulaski  Tatterdemalion  Band  of  Orange,  New  Jersey,  which  can  reduce  you  to  tears,  in  the  right  light,  by  speaking  to  you  from  the  heart  about  your  land,  and  what  a  fine  land  it  is,  and  that  itis  your  land  really,  and  my  land,  this  land  of  ours-that  par-  ticular  insight  can  chill  you,  rendered  by  a  marching  unit.  But  I  wander.  The  main  thing  I  wanted  to  point  out  is  that  the  world  is  full  of  bints,  that  they  grow  like  clams  in  all  quarters  of  the  earth,  bints  as  multitudinous  as  cherry-  stones  and  littlenecks  burrowing  into  the  mud  in  all  the  bays  of  the  world.  The  point  is  that  the  loss  of  any  partic-  ular  one  is  not  to  be  taken  seriously.  She  stays  with  you  as  long  as  she  can  put  up  with  your  filth  and  you  stay  with  her  as  long  as  you  can  put  up  with  her  filth.  That's  the  way  it  is  behind  the  veil  of  fummery  that  usually  veils  these  matters.  Now  think,  I  ask  you,  of  all  those  women  who  are  beyond  the  moment  of  splendor.  'They  are  de-  pressed.  The  minister  comes  to  call  and  recommends  to  them  the  things  ofthe  spirit,  and  tells  them  how  the  things  of  the  spirit  are  more  durable  than  the  things  of  the  flesh  and  all  that.  Well  he  is  entirely  correct,  they  are  more  durable,  but  durable  is  not  what  we  wanted.  The  terrible  poignance  of  this  predicament  is  not  vitiated  by  the  fact  that  everybody  knows  it,  in  the  backs  of  their  minds.  Ruin  of  the  physical  envelope  is  our  great  theme  here,  and  if  we  keep  changing  girls  every  four  or  five  years,  it  is  because  of  this  ruin,  which  I  will  never  agree  to,  to  my  dy-  ing  day.  And  that  is  why  I  keep  looking  out  of  the  window,  and  whywe  all  keep  looking  out  of  the  window,  to  see  what  is  passing,  what  has  been  cast  up  on  the  beach  of  our  existence.  Because  something  is  always  being  cast  up  on  that  beach,  as  new  classes  of  girls  ma-  ture,  and  you  can  always  get  a  new  one,  if  you  are  willing  to  overlook  cer-  tain  weaknesses  in  the  departments  of  thought  and  feeling.  But  if  it  is  thought  and  feeling  you  want,  you  can  always  read  a  book,  or  see  a  film,  or  have  an  interior  monologue.  But  of  course  with  the  spread  of  literacy  you  now  tend  to  get  girls  who  have  thought  and  feeling  too,  in  some  measure,  and  some  of  them  will  probably  belong  to  the  Royal  Phil-  ological  Society  or  something,  or  in  any  case  have  their  own  'thing,'  which  must  be  respected,  and  catered  to,  and  nattered  about,  just  as  if  you  cared  about  all  this  blegue.  But  of  course  we  may  be  different,  perhaps  you  do  care  about  it.  It's  not  unheard  of.  But  my  main  point  is  that  you  should  bear  in  mind  multiplicity,  and  forget  about  uniqueness.  'The  earth  is  broad,  and  flat,  and  deep,  and  high.  And  remem-  ber  what  Freud  said.&quot;  THE  VALUE  THE  MIND  SETS  ON  EROTIC  NEEDS  IN43616e616461ANTLY  SINKS  AS  SOON  AS  SATISFACTION  BECOMES  READILY  AVAILABLE.  SOME  OB43616e616461ACLE  IS  NEED-  ED  TO  SWELL  THE  TIDE  OF  THE  LIBIDO  TO  ITS  HEIGHT,  AND  AT  ALL  PERIODS  OF  HI43616e616461ORY,  WHENEVER  NATURAL  BARRIERS  HAVE  NOT  SUFFICED,  MEN  HAVE  ERECTED  CONVENTIONAL  ONES.  &quot;W  hich  prince?&quot;  Snow  White  won-  dered  brushing  her  teeth.  &quot;Which  prince  will  come?  Will  it  be  Prince  Andrey?  Prince  Igor?  Prince  Alf?  Prince  Alphonso?  Prince  Malcolm?  Prince  Donalbain?  Prince  Fernando?  Prince  Matchabelli?\xc2\xae  Prince  Siegfried?  Prince  Philip?  Prince  Albert?  Prince  Paul?  Prince  Rainier?  Prince  Akihito?  Prince  Porus?  Prince  Myshkin?  Prince  Rupert?  Prince  Pericles?  Prince  Karl?  Prince  Clarence?  Prince  George?  Prince  Hal?  Prince  John?  Prince  Ma-  millius?  Prince  Florizel?  Prince  Kro-  potkin?  Prince  Humphrey?  Prince  Charlie?  Prince  Valiant?  Prince  Esca-  lus?  Prince  Fortinbras?&quot;  Then  Snow  " b"White  pulled  herself  together.  &quot;Well  itis  terrific  to  be  anticipating  a  prince-  to  be  waiting  and  knowing  that  what  you  are  waiting  for  is  a  prince,  packed  with  grace-but  it  is  still  waiting,  and  waiting  as  a  mode  of  existence  is,  as  Brack  has  noted,  a  darksome  mode.  I  would  rather  be  doing  a  hundred  other  things.  But  slash  me  if  I  will  let  it,  this  waiting,  bring  down  my  lofty  feelings  of  anticipation  from  the  bed-  room  ceiling  where  they  dance  over-  head  like  so  many  French  letters  filled  with  lifting  gas.  I  wonder  if  he  will  have  the  Hapsburg  Lip?&quot;  Paul  stood  before  a  fence,  posing.  He  was  on  his  way  to  the  monastery.  But  first  he  was  posing  in  front  ofa  fence,  The  fence  was  covered  with  birds.  Their  problem,  in  many  ways  a  paradigm  of  our  own,  was  &quot;to  fly.&quot;  &quot;The  engaging  and  wholly  charming  way  I  stand  in  front  of  this  fence  here,&quot;  Paul  saidto  himself,  &quot;will  soon  per-  suade  someone  to  discover  me.  Then  I  will  not  have  to  go  to  the  monastery.  Then  I  can  be  on  television  or  some-  thing,  instead  of  going  to  the  mon-  astery.  Yet  there  is  no  denying  it,  something  is  pulling  me  toward  that  monastery  located  in  a  remote  part  of  western  [REDACTED].&quot;  Lanky,  generous-  hearted  Paul!  &quot;If  I  had  beenborn  well  prior  to  1900,  I  could  have  ridden  with  Pershing  against  Pancho  Villa.  Alter-  natively,  I  could  have  ridden  with  Villa  against  the  landowners  and  corrupt  government  officials  of  the  time.  In  either  case,  I  would  have  had  a  horse.  How  little  opportunity  there  is  for  young  men  to  have  personally  owned  horses  in  the  bottom  half  of  the  twentieth  century!  A  wonder  that  we  [REDACTED]  youth  can  still  fork  a  saddle  at  all....  Of  course  there  are  those  'horses'  under  the  hoods  of  Buicks  and  Pontiacs,  the  kind  so  many  of  my  countrymen  favor.  But  those  'horses'  are  not  for  me.  They  take  the  tan  out  of  my  cheeks  and  the  lank  out  of  my  arms  and  legs.  Tom  Lea  or  Pete  Hurd  will  never  paint  me  standing  by  this  fence  if  I  am  sitting  inside  an  Eldorado,  Starfire,  Riviera,  or  Mus-  tang,  no  matter  how  attractively  the  metal  has  been  bent.&quot;  Snow  White  let  down  her  hair  black  as  ebony  from  the  window.  It  was  Monday.  The  hair  flew  out  of  the  window.  &quot;I  could  fly  a  kite  with  this  hair  it  is  so  long.  The  wind  would  carry  the  kite  up  into  the  blue,  and  there" b'would  be  the  red  of  the  kite  against  the  blue  of  the  blue,  together  with  my  hair  black  as  ebony,  floating  there.  That  seems  desirable.  This  motif,  the  long  hair  streaming  from  the  high  win-  dow,  is  a  very  ancient  one  I  believe,  found  in  many  cultures,  in  various  forms.  Now  I  recapitulate  it,  for  the  astonishment  of  the  vulgar  and  the  re-  freshment  of  my  venereal  life.&quot;  The  President  looked  out  of  his  window.  He  was  not  very  happy.  &quot;I  worry  about  Bill,  Hubert,  Henry,  Kev-  in,  Edward,  [REDACTED],  Dan,  and  their  lover,  Snow  White.  I  sense  that  all  is  not  well  with  them.  Now,  looking  out  over  this  green  lawn  and  these  fine  rosebushes,  and  into  the  night  and  the  yellow  buildings,  and  the  falling  Dow-  Jones  index  and  the  screams  of  the  poor,  I  am  concerned.  I  have  many  im-  portant  things  to  worry  about,  but  I  worry  about  Bill  and  the  boys  too.  Be-  cause  I  am  the  President.  Finally.  The  President  of  the  whole  bloody  country.  And  they  are  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  Bill,  Hubert,  Henry,  Kevin,  Edward,  [REDACTED],  Dan,  and  Snow  White.  They  are  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  My  556e6974656420537461746573ns.&quot;  &amp;  Questions:  1.  Do  you  like  the  story  so  far?  Yes  (  )  No  (  )  2.  Does  Snow  White  resemble  the  Snow  White  you  remember?  Yes  (  )  No  (  )  3.  Have  you  understood,  in  reading  to  this  point,  that  Paul  is  the  prince-figure?  Yes  ()  No  (  )  4.  That  Jane  is  the  wicked-step-  mother-figure?  Yes  (  )  No  ()  5.  In  the  further  development  of  the  story,  would  you  like  more  emo-  tion  ()  or  less  emotion  ()?  6.  Is  there  too  much  blague  in  the  narration?  (  )  Not  enough  blague?  (  )  7.  Do  you  feel  that  the  creation  of  new  modes  of  hysteria  is  a  viable  undertaking  for  the  artist  of  to-  day?  Yes  (  )  No  ()  8.  Would  you  like  a  war?  Yes  (  )  No  (  )  9.  Has  the  work,  for  you,  a  meta-  physical  dimension?  Yes  ()  No  ()  10.  What  is  it  (twenty-five  words  or  less)?                 11.  Are  the  seven  men,  in  your  view,  ' b"adequately  characterized  as  indi-  viduals?  Yes  (  )  No  (  )  Do  you  feel  that  the  Authors  Guild  has  been  sufficiently  vigor-  ous  in  representing  writers  before  the  Congress  in  matters  pertaining  to  copyright  legislation?  Yes  (  )  No  (  )  13.  Holding  in  mind  all  works  of  fic-  tion  since  the  War,  in  all  lan-  guages,  how  would  you  rate  the  present  work,  on  a  scale  of  one  to  ten,  so  far?  (Please  circle  your  answer)  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  Do  you  stand  up  when  you  read?  (_)  Lie  down?  (  )  Sit?  (  )  15.  In  your  opinion,  should  human  be-  ings  have  more  shoulders?  ()  Two  sets?  (  )  Three?  ()  II  PERHAPS  we  should  not  be  sitting  12.  14.  here  tending  the  vats  and  washing  the  buildings  and  carrying  the  money  to  the  vault  once  a  week,  like  everybody  else.  Perhaps  we  should  be  doing  something  else  entirely,  with  our  lives.  God  knows  what.  We  do  what  we  do  without  thinking.  One  tends  the  vats  and  washes  the  buildings  and  car-  ries  the  money  to  the  vault,  and  never  stops  for  a  moment  to  consider  that  the  whole  process  may  be  despicable.  Some-  one  standing  somewhere  despising  us.  In  the  hot  springs  of  Dax,  a  gouty  thinker  thinking,  Father  forgive  them.  It  was  worse  before-that  is  something  that  can  safely  be  said.  It  was  worse  before  we  found  Snow  White  wander-  ing  in  the  forest.  Before  we  found  Snow  White  wandering  in  the  forest  we  lived  lives  stuffed  with  equanimity.  There  was  equanimity  for  all.  We  washed  the  buildings,  tended  the  vats,  wended  our  way  to  the  county  cat-  f  house  once  a  week  (heigh-ho).  Like  everybody  else.  We  were  simple  bour-  geois.  We  knew  what  to  do.  When  we  found  Snow  White  wandering  in  the  forest,  hungry  and  distraught,  we  said,  &quot;Would  you  like  something  to  eat?&quot;  Now  we  do  not  know  what  to  do.  Snow  White  has  added  a  dimension  of  confusion  and  misery  to  our  lives.  Whereas  once  we  were  simple  bour-  geois  who  knew  what  to  do,  now  we  are  complex  bourgeois  who  are  at  a  loss  We  do  not  like  this  complexity.  We  circle  it  wearily,  prodding  it  from  time  to  time  with  a  shopkeeper's  fore-  finger:  What  is  it?  Is  it,  perhaps,  bad  for  business?   Equanimity  has  leaked  away.  There  was  a  moment,  however,  when  equanimity  was  not  the  chief  consideration.  That  moment  " b"in  which  we  looked  at  Snow  White  and  understood  forthe  first  time  that  we  were  fond  of  her.  That  was  a  moment.  Reaction  to  the  hair:  T  wo  older  men  standing  there  observed  Snow  White's  hair  black  as  ebony  tumbling  from  the  window.  &quot;Seems  like  some  hair  comin'  outa  that  winda  there,&quot;  one  said.  &quot;Yes,  it  looks  like  hair  to  me,&quot;  his  companion  replied.  &quot;Seems  like  there  oughta  be  somethin'  to  be  done  about  it.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  seems  like  it  oughta  be  punished  with  a  kiss  or  something.&quot;  &quot;Well  we're  too  old  for  all  that.  You  need  a  Paul  or  Paul-  figure  for  that  sort  of  activity.  Probably  Paul  is  even  now  standing  in  the  wings,  girding  his  pants  for  his  entrance.  So  I  guess  I'll  go  along  to  the  hiring  hall,  where  I  hear  there  might  be  some  work.&quot;  &quot;I'll  go  along  with  you,&quot;  the  other  man  said,  &quot;because  even  though  I  ain't  a  A.B.,  I  em  a  [REDACTED],  and  maybe  in  the  dimness  the  one  thing  will  be  taken  for  the  other,  and  we  can  'ship  out'  together.&quot;  &quot;I  hate  to  go  away  and  leave  all  that  hair  hanging  there  un-  molested,  as  it  were,&quot;  the  first  man  said,  &quot;but  we  have  a  duty  to  our  fam-  ilies,  and  to  the  country's  merchant  fleet,  some  vessels  of  which  are  now  languishing  at  their  berths  doubtless,  down  at  Pier  27  and  Pier  32,  for  the  lack  o'  the  likes  of  us.  So  farewell,  hair  Fare  thee  well,  and  if  forever,  still  for-  ever,  fare  thee  well!&quot;  Reaction  to  the  hair:  Fred  the  rock-  'n'-roll  bandleader  addressed  his  men.  &quot;Men,  something  happened  to  me  to-  day  on  Monument  Street.  I  saw  a  wall  of  hair  black  as  ebony  falling  from  a  high  window.  A  girl,  a  look.  .  ..  Men,  everything  is  changed.  I  am  changed.  I  am  no  longer  the  Fred  of  former  times.  And  I  say  that  things  must  be  different  with  you,  too,  because  you  are  my  men,  and  I  am  your  leader.  Now  it  is  quite  clear  to  me  that  you  men  wish  to  play  the  buffalo  music  of  your  fore-  fathers  rather  than  the  rock  'n'  roll  we  have  patented,  amplified,  adver-  tised,  and  been  paid  for.  Now  I  want  to  say  right  now,  that  that's  all  right  with  me,  the  buffalo  music  I  mean.  From  this  day  forward,  until  the  end  of  time,  it  will  be  nothing  but  buffalo  music,  in  all  the  dromes  of  the  world.  I  don't  care  a  rap,  that's  how  all  right  it  is  with  me.  It  is  yours,  this  freedom  that  I  freely  grant  you,  that  our  gray  hides  have  been  hankering  for.  Now  that,  with  a  look,  this  mysterious  dark  beauty  has  changed  my  life,  which  needed  to  be  changed,  we  are,  in  a  strange  way,  opened  to  ourselves,  and  to  buffalo  mu-  sic,  until  the  red  slag  of  the  nooisphere  descends  to  cover  everything  with  the  salty  finality  of  love.  So  go  forth  now  with  your  amplifiers  and  all,  and  revise  your  lives  upward,  as  I  have  revised  mine.  Put  the  question  mercilessly:  Where  have  the  buffalo  gone?&quot;  Fred's  men  exchanged  silent  looks.  &quot;It's  al-  ways  like  this,&quot;  the  looks  said,  &quot;inthe  spring.  It's  always  this  way,  when  the  green  comes  again.  Our  leader  suffers  a  spiritual  regeneration,  from  a  bad  man  into  a  good  man.  It's  always  some  girl,  who  looks  at  him,  at  which  he  falls  into  her  power  absolutely.  We  are  tired  of  having  for  a  leader  one  who  is  noth-  ing  else  than  a  damned  fool.  Let's  go  down  to  the  union  hall,  now,  and  write  out  the  specifications  for  a  grievance  against  him,  under  Section  Four,  the  grievance  section,  of  our  union  consti-  tution.  And  we  can  think  of  other  things,  too,  to  add  to  the  list  of  charges.  That  will  be  amusing,  writing  out  the  charges.&quot;  Reaction  to  th  e  hair:  &quot;Well,  that  is  certainly  a  lot  of  hair  hanging  there,&quot;  Bill  reflected.  &quot;And  it  seems  to  be  h  ang-  ing  from  our  windows  too.  I  mean,  those  windows  where  the  hair  i  s  hang-  ing  are  in  our  house,  surely?  Now  who  amongst  us  has  that  much  hair,  blac  k  as  ebony?  I  am  only  pretending  to  ask  myself  this  question.  The  distasteful  an-  s  wer  is  already  kno  wn  to  me,  as  is  the  significance  of  this  act,  this  hanging,  as  well  as  the  se  xua  l  me  aning  of  hair  itse  lf,  on  which  Wurst  has  written.  I  d  on't  mean  that  he  ha  s  written  on  the  hair,  bu  t  rather  about  it,  from  pr  ehi  st  ory  to  the  present  time.  There  can  b  e  only  one  ans  wer.  It  is  Snow  White.  It  is  Snow  White  who  has  taken  this  step,  the  meaning  of  which  is  clear  to  all  of  us.  All  seven  of  us  k  now  what  this  m  eans  .  It  means  that  she  is  nothing  el  se  but  a  g  odda  m  d  egene  r  ate!  is  one  way  of  looking  at  it,  at  this  com-  plex  and  difficult  question.  It  means  that  the  'n  ot-with'  is  exper  i  enced  as  more  pr  essing,  more  r  eal,  than  the  'being-with.'  It  m  eans  she  seeks  a  new  lover.  Que  ll  e  tr  ag\xc3\xa9die!  But  the  essen-  tial  loneliness  of  the  person  must  also  be  considered  .  Each  of  us  is  like  a  tiny  single  hair,  hurled  into  the  wo  rld  among  billions  and  billions  of  other  hairs,  of  various  colors  and  lengths.  And  if  God  does  not  exist,  then  we  are  in  even  graver  shape  than  we  had  sup-  posed.  In  that  case,  each  of  us  is  like  a  tiny  little  mote  of  pointlessness,  whirling  in  the  midst  of  a  dreadful" b"free  even  greater  pointlessness,  unless  there  is  intelligent  life  on  other  plan-  ets-that  is  to  say,  life  even  more  in-  telligent  than  us,  life  that  has  thought  up  some  point  for  this  great  enter-  prise,  life.  That  is  possible.  That  is  something  we  do  not  know,  thank  God.  But  in  the  meantime,  here  is  the  hair,  with  its  multiple  meanings.  What  am  I  to  do  about  it?&quot;  \xc2\xae  Reaction  to  the  hair  (flashback):  Paul  sat  in  his  baff,  under  the  falling  water.  More  hot  water  fell  into  the  baff.  &quot;I  would  retract  the  green  sea,  and  the  brown  fish  in  it,  and  I  would  especially  retract  that  long  black  hair  hanging  from  that  window  that  I  saw  today  on  my  way  here,  from  the  Un-  employment  Office.  It  has  made  me  terribly  nervous,  that  hair.  It  was  beau-  tiful,  I  admit  it,  Long  black  hair  of  such  texture,  fineness,  is  not  easily  come  by.  Hair  black  as  ebony!  Yet  it  has  made  me  terribly  nervous.  Teeth  ...  piano  lessons  .  ..&quot;  EBONY  EQUANIMITY  A43616e616461ONISHMENT  TRIUMPH  VAT  DAX  BLAGUE  Lack  of  reaction  to  the  hair:  Dan  sat  down  on  a  box  and  pulled  up  more  boxes  for  us,  without  forcing  us  to  sit  down  on  them,  but  just  leaving  them  there,  so  that  if  we  wanted  to  sit  down  on  them,  we  could.  &quot;You  know,  Klip-  schorn  was  right  I  think  when  he  spoke  of  the  'blanketing'  effect  of  or-  dinary  language,  referring,  as  I  recall,  to  the  part  that  sort  of,  you  know,  'fills  in'  between  the  other  parts.  That  part,  the  'filling'  you  might  say,  of  which  the  expression  'you  might  say'  is  a  good  example,  is  to  me  the  most  interesting  part,  and  of  course  it  might  also  be  called  the  'stuffing,'  I  suppose,  and  there  is  probably  also,  in  addition,  some  other  word  that  would  do  as  well,  to  describe  it,  or  maybe  a  number  of  them.  But  the  quality  this  'stuffing'  has,  that  the  other  parts  of  verbality  do  not  have,  is  two-parted,  perhaps:  (1)  an  'endless'  quality  and  (2)  a  sludge&quot;  quality.  Of  course  that  is  pos-  sibly  two  qualities  but  I  prefer  to  think  " b"of  them  as  different  aspects  of  a  single  quality,  if  you  can  think  that  way.  The  'endless'  aspectof  'stuffing'  is  that  it  goes  on  and  on,  in  many  different  forms,  and  in  fact  our  exchanges  are  in  large  measure  composed  of  it,  in  larget  measure  even,  perhaps,  than  they  are  composed  of  that  which  is  not  'stuffing.'  The  'sludge'  quality  is  the  Acaviness  that  this  'stuff'  has,  similar  to  the  heavier  motor  oils,  a  kind  of  down-  ward  pull  but  still  fluid,  if  you  follow  me,  and  I  can't  help  thinking  that  this  downwardness  is  valuable,  although  it's  hard  to  say  just  how,  right  at  the  mo-  ment.  So,  summing  up,  there  is  a  re-  lation  between  what  I  have  been  say-  ing  and  what  we're  doing  here  at  the  plant  with  these  plastic  buffalo  humps.  Now  you're  probably  familiar  with  the  fact  that  the  per-capita  production  of  trash  in  this  country  is  up  from  2.75  pounds  per  day  in  1920  to  4.5  pounds  per  day  in  1965,  the  last  year  for  which  we  have  figures,  and  is  increasing  at  the  rate  of  about  four  per  cent  a  year.  Now  that  rate  will  probably  go  up,  be-  cause  it's  been  going  up,  and  I  hazard  that  we  may  very  well  soon  reach  a  point  where  it's  a  hundred  per  cent.  Now,  at  such  a  point,  you  will  agree,  the  question  turns  from  a  question  of  disposing  of  this  'trash'  to  a  question  of  appreciating  its  qualities,  because  after  all,  it's  a  hundred  per  cent,  right?  And  there  can  no  longer  be  any  question  of  'disposing'  of  it,  because  it's  all  there  is,  and  we  will  simply  have  to  learn  how  to  'dig'  it-that's  slang,  but  peculiarly  ap-  propriate  here.  So  that's  why  we're  in  humps,  right  now,  more  really  from  a  philosophical  point  of  view  than  because  we  find  them  a  great  money-maker.  They  are  'trash,'  and  what  in  fact  could  be  more  useless  or  trashlike?  It's  that  we  want  to  be  on  the  leading  edge  of  this  trash  phenomenon,  the  everted  sphere  of  the  future,  and  that's  why  we  pay  particularattention,  too,  to  those  aspects  of  language  that  may  be  seen  as  a  model  of  the  trash  phenomenon,  the  'endless'  aspect  and  the  'sludge'  aspect.  And  it's  certainly  been  a  pleas-  ure  showing  you  around  the  plant  this  afternoon,  and  meeting  you,  and  talk-  ing  to  you  about  these  things,  which  are  really  more  important,  I  believe,  than  people  tend  to  think.  Would  you  like  a  cold  Coke  from  the  Coke  ma-  chine  now,  before  you  got&quot;  LU  Additional  reactions  to  the  hair:  &quot;To  be  a  horsewife,&quot;  Edward  said.  &quot;That,  my  friends,  is  my  text  for  today.  This  important  slot  in  our  society,  conceptu-  " b"alized  by  God  as  very  nearly  the  key  to  the  whole  thing,  as  Thomas  tells  us,  has  suffered  in  recent  months  and  in  this  house  a  degree  of  denigration.  I  have  heard  it;  I  have  been  saddened  by  it.  So  I  want  today  if  I  can  to  dispel  some  of  these  wrong  ideas  that  have  been  going  around,  causing  confusion  and  scumming  up  the  face  of  the  truth.  The  horsewife!  The  very  basebone  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  plethora!  The  horse-  wife!  Without  whom  the  entire  struc-  ture  of  civilian  life  would  crumble!  Without  the  horsewife,  the  whole  ra-  son  d\xc3\xa9tre  of  our  existences  would  be  reduced,  in  a  twinkling,  to  that  brute  level  of  brutality  for  which  we  so  right-  ly  reproach  the  filthy  animals.  Were  it  not  for  her  enormous  purchasing  power  and  the  heedless  gaiety  with  which  it  is  exercised,  we  would  still  be  going  around  dressed  in  skins  probably,  with  no  big-ticket  items  to  fill  the  empty  voids,  in  our  homes  and  in  our  hearts.  The  horsewife!  Nut  and  numen  of  our  intersubjectivity!  The  horsewife!  The  chiefest  ornament  on  the  golden  tree  of  human  suffering!  But  to  say  what  I  have  said,  gentlemen,  is  to  say  nothing  at  all.  Consider  now  the  horsewife  in  another  part  of  her  role.  Consider  her  sitting  in  her  baff,  anointing  her  charms  with  liquid  Cheer  and  powdered  Joy,  which  trouble,  confuse,  and  drown  the  sense  in  odors.  Now  she  rises  chastely,  and  chastely  abrades  herself  with  a  red  towel.  What  an  endearing  spectacle!  The  naked  wonder  of  it!  The  blue  beauty  of  it!  Now  I  ask  you,  gentle-  men,  what  do  we  have  here?  Do  we  have  a  being  which  regards  itself  with  the  proper  amount  of  self-love?  No.  No,  we  do  not.  Do  we  have  a  being  which  regards  itself  with  the  appropri-  ate  awe?  No.  No,  we  do  not.  We  have  here  rather  a  being  which  regards  it-  self,  qua  horsewife,  with  something  dangerously  akin  to  self-hatred.  That  is  the  problem.  What  is  the  solution?&quot;  Dan  spoke  up,  then.  &quot;I  could  cut  your  gizzard  out,  Edward.  You  are  making  the  whole  damned  thing  immensely  more  difficult  than  it  has  to  be.  I  put  it  to  you  that,  without  your  screen  of  difficulty-making  pseudo-problems,  the  whole  damned  thing  can  be  resolved  very  neatly,  in  the  following  wav.  Now,  what  do  we  apprehend  when  we  apprehend  Snow  White?  We  appre-  hend,  first,  two  three-quarter-scale  breasts  floating  toward  us  wrapped,  typically,  in  a  red  towel.  Or,  if  we  are  apprehending  her  from  the  other  direc-  tion,  we  apprehend  a  beautiful  snow-  white  arse  floating  away  from  us  wrapped  in  a  red  towel.  Now  I  ask  you:  What,  in  these  two  quite  distinct  apprehensions,  is  the  constant?  The  factor  that  remains  the  same?  Why,  quite  simply,  the  red  towel.  I  submit  that,  rightly  understood,  the  problem  of  Snow  White  has  to  do  at  its  center  with  nothing  else  but  red  towels.  Seen  in  this  way,  it  immediately  becomes  a  non-  problem.  We  can  easily  dispense  with  the  slippery  and  untrustworthy  and  ex-  pensive  effluvia  that  is  Snow  White,  and  cleave  instead  to  the  towel.  That  is  my  idea,  gentlemen.  And  I  have  here  in  this  brown  bag  .  ..  I  have  taken  the  liberty  of  purchasing  .  ..  Here,  Ed-  ward,  here  is  your  towel  ...  Kevin  ...  [REDACTED]...&quot;  Chang  watched  sourly.  That  was  the  trouble  with  being  a  Chi-  nese.  Too  much  detachment.  &quot;I  don't  want  a  ratty  old  red  towel.  I  want  the  beautiful  snow-white  arse  itself!&quot;  Snow  White  regarded  her  hair  hang-  ing  out  ofthe  window.  &quot;Paul?  Is  there  a  Paul,  or  have  I  only  projected  him  in  the  shape  of  my  longing,  boredom,  ennui,  and  pain?  Have  I  been  trained  in  the  finest  graces  and  arts  all  my  life  for  nothing  but  this?  Is  my  richly  appointed  body  to  go  down  the  drain,  at  twenty-two,  in  this  horribly  bore-  some  milieu,  which  even  my  worst  enemi  would  not  wish  upon  me,  if  she  knew?  Of  course  there  is  a  Paul!  That  Paul  who  was  a  friend  of  the  family,  who  had,  at  that  point,  not  yet  assumed  the  glistering  mantle  of  princeliness.  There  is  a  Paul  somewhere,  but  not  here.  Not  under  my  window.  Not  yet.&quot;  Snow  White  looked  out  of  the  window,  down  the  hair,  at  the  two  hundred  citizens  on  the  ground,  agape.  &quot;Ugh!  I  wish  I  were  somewhere  else!  On  the  beach  at  Saint-Tropez,  for  example,  surrounded  by  brown  boys  without  a  penny.  Here  everyone  has  a  penny.  Here  everyone  worships  the  almighty  penny.  Well  at  least  with  pennies  one  knows  what  they  add  up  to,  under  the  decimal  system.  No  ambiguity  there,  at  least.  O  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]!  Thy  daughters  are  burning  with  torpor  and  a  sense  of  immense  wasted  potential,  like  one  of  these  pipes  you  see  in  the  oil  fields,  burning  off  the  natural  gas  that  it  isn't  economically  rational  to  ship  somewhere!&quot;  &quot;Informal  statements  the  difficul-  ties  of  ownership  and  customs  sur-  prises  you  by  being  Love  exchang-  es  paint  it  understanding  brown  boys  without  a  penny  I  was  bandit  headgear  And  the  question  of  yesterday  waiting  members  clinging  clear  milk  of  " b"wanting  fever  hidden  melted  con-  stabulary  extra  innings  of  danger  hides  under  theleg  r\xc3\xa9sum\xc3\xa9  clip  chrome  method  decision  of  the  sacred  Rota  muscular  dream  basket  gesture  Kiss  the  paper  with  it  tufts  more  interesting  than  children  painful  texture  of  interest-  ing  children  offensive  candor  lesion  hanging  mirror  They  only  want  window  boxes  moving  with  clean,  careful  shrubs  Manner  in  which  the  penetration  was  Excited  groans  stifled  under  blankets  upset  A  parliament  of  less-favored  glass  doors  closed  extra&quot;  The  bishop  in  his  red  mantlepiece  strode  forward.  &quot;Yes,  we  are  in  a  ter-  rible  hurricane  here,&quot;  he  acknowledged  to  the  wrecked  cries  of  the  survivors.  &quot;If  we  can  just  cross  that  spit  of  land  there&quot;  (gesture  with  fingers,  glitter  of  episcopal  rings),  &quot;and  get  to  that  harlot  over  there&quot;  {}{sweep  of  arm  in  white  lacy  alb  ),  &quot;pardon  I  meant  hamlet,  we  can  perhaps  find  shelter  against  this  peculiar  vicissitude  sent  by  God  to  break  our  backs  for  our  sins.&quot;  The  &quot;flock&quot;  moaned.  They  had  been  eight  days  without.  ...  The  sudden  pall  on  the  fourth  day  had  been  the  worst.  There  was  a  silence.  Silence.  Everything  si-  lent.  Not  a  sound  for  six  hours.  Noth-  ing.  &quot;This  is  the  worst,&quot;  they  mur-  mured  to  one  another  in  sign  language,  not  wanting  to...  break  the...  A  few  young  men  of  good  family  crawled  away  into  the  night  to  find  help  (tingle  of  mace  against  bone).  The  Marquesa  de  G.  had  fainted  again.  Blockflotes  were  heard.  &quot;So  this  is  Spain!&quot;  Paul  said  to  himself.  &quot;I  never  thought  I  would  live  to  see  it.  It  is  intelligent  of  me  to  hide  from  the  Order  here,  in  the  episcopal  entourage.  And  itis  intelligent  of  me  to  hide  from  the  Order  here  in  this  hurricane.  So  much  intelligence!  So  little  of  God's  grace!&quot;  Self-regard  is  rooted  in  breakfast.  When  you  have  had  it,  then  lunch  seems  to  follow  naturally,  as  if  you  owned  not  only  the  fruits  but  the  means  of  pro-  duction  in  a  large,  fewx-naif  country.  This  is  doubted  only  by  eccentrics,  and  on  the  present  occasion  their  views  need  not  be  taken  into  account.  That  coun-  try  in  which  you  are  loved  for  yourself  is  expanding  now  with  the  further  de-  velopment  of  books-a  new  kind  capa-  ble  of  satisfying  the  tactile  wishes  even  of  old  people.  Our  engineers  are  at  a  loss  to  understand  what  their  engineers  have  done.  Still,  insofar  as  the  engineers" b"are  trying  to  sketch  future  trends,  even  the  most  rigid  empiricists  among  them  are  obliged  to  make  projections,  and  then  plans.  Such  is  the  impact  of  tech-  nology  upon  the  fabric  of  inherited  so-  cial  institutions  that  breakfast  is  almost  forgotten,  in  some  countries;  they  paint  pictures  instead.  I  read  Dampfboot's  novel  although  he  had  nothing  to  say.  It  wasn't  rave,  that  volume;  we  re-  gretted  that.  And  it  was  hard  to  read-  dry,  breadlike  pages  that  turned,  and  then  fell,  like  a  car  burned  by  rioters  and  resting,  wrong  side  up,  at  the  edge  of  the  picture  plane  with  its  tires  smok-  ing.  Fragments  kept  flying  off  the  screen  into  the  audience,  fragments  of  rain  and  ethics.  Hubert  wanted  to  go  back  to  the  dog  races.  But  we  made  him  read  his  part,  the  outer  part  where  the  author  is  praised  and  the  price  quoted.  We  like  books  that  have  a  lot  of  dreck  in  them,  matter  which  pre-  sents  itself  as  not  wholly  relevant  (or  indeed,  at  all  relevant)  but  which,  carefully  attended  to,  can  supply  a  kind  of  &quot;sense&quot;&quot;  of  what  is  going  on,  This  &quot;sense&quot;  is  not  to  be  obtained  by  read-  ing  between  the  lines  (for  there  is  noth-  ing  there,  in  those  white  spaces)  but  by  reading  the  lines  themselves-looking  at  them  and  so  arriving  at  a  feeling  not  of  satisfaction  exactly  (  that  is  too  much  to  expect)  but  of  having  read  them,  of  having  &quot;completed&quot;  them.  &quot;Please  don't  talk,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;Say  nothing.  We  can  begin  now.  Take  off  the  pajamas.&quot;  Snow  White  took  off  her  pajamas.  Henry  took  off  his  pajamas.  Kevin  took  off  his  pajamas.  Hubert  took  off  his  pajamas.  [REDACTED]  took  off  his  pajamas.  Dan  took  off  his  pajamas.  Edward  took  off  his  pajamas.  Bill  re-  fused  to  take  off  his  pajamas.  &quot;'Take  off  your  pajamas  Bill,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  Everyone  looked  at  Bill's  pajamas.  &quot;No,  I  won't,&quot;  Bill  said.  &quot;I  will  not  take  off  my  pajamas.&quot;  &quot;'Take  off  your  pajamas  Bill,&quot;  everyone  said.  &quot;No.  I  will  not.&quot;  Everyone  looked  again  at  Bill's  pajamas.  Bill's  pajamas  filled  the  room,  in  a  sense.  Those  yellow  cr\xc3\xa9pe-  paper  pajamas.  &quot;What  is  that  apelike  hand  Isee  reaching  into  my  mailbox?&quot;  &quot;That's  nothing.  Think  nothing  of  it.  It's  noth-  ing.  It's  just  one  of  my  familiars  Moth-  er.  Don't  think  about  it.  It's  just  an  ape  that's  all.  Just  an  ordinary  ape.  Don't  give  it  another  thought.  That's  all  there  is  to  it,&quot;  &quot;I  think  you  dismiss  these  things  too  easily  Jane.  I'm  sure  it  means  more  than  that.  It's  unusual.  It  means  something.&quot;  &quot;No  Mother.  It  doesn't  mean  more  than  that.  Than  I  " b"wood  on  the  fire.  The  smoke  was  acrid,as  it  always  is.  Antonin  Artaud  held  out  a  crucifix  at  the  end  of  a  long  pole,  in  the  smoke.  Snow  White  asked  if  we  would  remove  the  spit.  &quot;It  hurts,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  Bill  said.  &quot;You  are  not  done  yet.  It  is  supposed  to  hurt.&quot;  Jane  laughed.  &quot;Why  are  you  laughing  Jane?&quot;  &quot;I  am  laughing  because  it  is  not  me  burning  there.&quot;  &quot;For  you,&quot;  Henry  said,  &quot;we  have  the  red-hot  iron  shoes.  The  plastic  red-hot  iron  shoes.&quot;  &quot;This  has  nothing  to  do  with  justice,&quot;  Bill  said.  &quot;This  has  to  do  with  animus.&quot;  We  regarded  Snow  White  rotating  there,  in  her  pain  and  beauty,  in  the  dream.  Snow  White  saw  her  hair  black  as  ebony  hanging  out  of  the  window.  &quot;I  suppose  I  must  respond  in  some  way  to  the  new  overture  from  the  seven  men.  They  think  they  are  so  merveil-  leux,  with  their  new  shower  curtain.  They  have  been  posing  in  front  of  it  all  day.  As  if  I  could  be  swayed,  in  my  iron  resolve,  by  a  new  shower  curtain,  however  extraordinary  and  fine!  I  wonder  what  it  looks  like.&quot;  Bill  has  dropped  the  money.  He  was  \\  carrying  the  money  neatly  separated  |  into  tens,  twenties,  fifties,  and  so  forth,  a  bundle  totalling  a  great  deal  of  mon-  ey  I  can  tell  you  that.  He  was  on  his  way  to  the  vault  with  the  money  bundled  into  his  armpit,  wrapped  in  a  red  towel.  Henry  had  wrapped  it  in  a  red  towel.  Hubert  had  bundled  it  into  Bill's  armpit.  Dan  had  opened  the  door.  Kevin  had  pointed  Bill  toward  the  vault.  [REDACTED]  had  given  Bill  a  kick  in  '  the  back,  to  get  him  started.  And  Ed-  ||  ward  had  said,  &quot;Don't  forget  the  receipt.&quot;  Then  Bill  had  moved  through  the  door  out  into  the  daylight  in  the  direction  of  the  vault.  But  somewhere  between  the  house  and  the  vault  the  money  hurled  itself  out  of  his  armpit  in  a  direction  known  only  to  it.  &quot;Where  is  the  deposit  slip  Bill?&quot;  Edward  asked,  when  Bill  returned.  &quot;Deposit  slip?&quot;  Bill  said.  &quot;The  bundle,&quot;  Dan  said.  &quot;The  bundle?&quot;  &quot;The  money,&quot;  Kevin  said.  &quot;The  money?&quot;  We  all  rushed  out  into  the  air,  then,  to  recover  the  bundle.  But  it  was  nowhere.  We  re-  traced  Bill's  steps  as  best  we  could.  Some  of  Bill's  steps  led  into  a  bar-and-  grill,  The  Fire  Next  Time  Bar  &amp;  Grill.  We  retraced  there  a  hot-pastrami  sandwich  and  eight  bottles  of  Miller  High  Life.  But  of  the  bundle  there  was  not  a  trace.  Luckily  the  matter  is  not  serious,  because  we  have  more  money.  But  the  loss  of  equanimity  was  serious.  We  prize  equanimity,  and  a  good  deal  of  equanimity  leaked  away,  that  day.  &quot;All  right  Jane  get  into  the  car.&quot;  &quot;Hogo  you  are  making  stains  on  my  new  white  duck  love  seat  with  pillows  of  white-on-white  Indian  crewel!&quot;  Jane  regarded  the  large  black  stains.  &quot;That's  all  you  know  Hogo  isn't  it.  How  to  take  a  thing  that  was  white,  and  stain  it  until  itis  black.  That's  a  pretty  strong  metaphor  Hogo  of  what  you  would  like  to  do  with  me,  too.  I  understand.  If  you  think  for  one  mo-  ment  that  your  capability  of  staining  the  thing  you  love  has  escaped  me,  from  the  very  beginning,  you  have  grossly  misperceived  our  situation.  Get  out  of  here  Hogo  forever!&quot;  &quot;All  right  Jane  get  into  the  car.&quot;  Paul  was  explaining  music  to  the  French  citizens,.  &quot;When  we  turn  our  amplifiers  on,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;cant  is  al-  ready  forming  over  some  people's  minds,  like  the  brown  crust  on  bread,  or  the  silence  that  'crusts  over'  inap-  propriate  remarks.  I  think  there  ought  to  be,  and  remember  I'm  talking  nor-  matively  here,  I  think  what  ought  to  obtain  is  a  measure  of  audacity,  an  au-  dacity  component,  such  as  turning  your  amplifier  up  a  little  higher  thanany-  body  else's,  or  using  a  fork  to  pick  and  strum,  rather  than  a  plectrum  or  the  carefully  calloused  fingertips,  or  doing  something  with  your  elbow,  I  don't  care  what,  I  insist  only  that  it  be  rele-  vant,  in  a  strange  way,  to  the  scene  that  has  chosen  to  spread  itself  out  be-  fore  us,  the  theatre  of  our  lives.  And  if  you  other  gentlemen  will  come  with  me  down  to  the  guai,  carrying  your  ampli-  fiers  in  boxes,  and  not  forgetting  the  trailing  cords,  which  have  to  be  (plugged  in,'  sothat  we  can  'turn  on'  ...&quot;  ROME.  ANOTHER  DEFEAT.  PAUL  HANDS  OVER  THE  GREEN-AND-GOLD  ARMBAND.  THE  ITALIAN  PO43616e616461AL  SERVICE  ABIDES  NO  RINGERS  IN  ITS  RANKS.  ELL,  Paul  is  back  and  he  has  de-  cided  to  stop  fleeing  his  destiny  and  he  has  given  himself  up  at  the  [REDACTED]  monastery  and  drawn  his  robes  from  the  supply  room  and  now  he  is  " b"    home  on  leave  in  his  robes.  Paul  came  to  the  party  in  his  robes.  He  wasn't  al-  lowed  to  eat  or  drink  anything,  or  say  anything.  'That  was  the  Rule.  We  went  to  the  howling  party  sitting  prim-  ly  along  the  side  of  the  room  in  a  row,  the  seven  ofus  and  Snow  White.  Our  social  intercourse  for  the  quarter.  We  discussed  the  bat  theory  of  child-raising  with  the  mothers  there  meanwhile  pay-  ing  attention  to  a  vat  of  rum  under  the  harpsichord.  Edward  didn't  want  to  discuss  the  bat  theory  of  child-raising  (delicate  memories)  so  he  discussed  Harald  Bluetooth,  king  of  Scandinavia  during  a  certain  period,  the  Bluetooth  period.  But  the  mothers  wanted  to  talk.  &quot;Spare  the  bat  and  the  child  rots,&quot;  said  the  mothers.  &quot;Rots  inside.&quot;  &quot;But  how  do  you  know  when  to  employ  it?  The  magic  moment?&quot;  &quot;We  have  a  book  which  tells  us  such  things,&quot;  the  mothers  said.  &quot;We  look  it  up  in  the  book.  On  page  331  begins  a  twelve-page  discus-  sion  of  batting  the  baby.  A  well-worn  page.&quot;  We  got  away  from  those  moth-  ers  as  fast  as  we  could.  There  were  a  lot  of  other  people  talking  there,  politi-  cal  talk  and  other  kinds  of  talk.  A  cer-  tain  contempt  for  the  institutions  of  so-  ciety  was  exhibited.  [REDACTED]  thrust  his  arm  into  the  bag  of  consciousness-ex-  panding  drugs.  His  consciousness  ex-  panded.  He  concentrated  his  conscious-  ness  upon  a  thumbtip.  &quot;Is  this  the  upper  extent  of  knowing,  this  dermis  that  I  perceive  here?&quot;  Then  he  became  mel-  ancholy,  melancholy  as  a  gib  cat,  mel-  ancholy  as  a  jugged  hare.  There  is  a  lot  of  it  going  around.  &quot;The  content  of  the  giraffe  is  giraffe  meat.  Giraffes  have  high  blood  pressure  because  the  blood  must  plod  to  the  brain  up  ten  feet  of  neck.&quot;  There  were  more  perceptions  and  blague.  Edgar  and  Charles  wanted  some  too.  But  they  were  not  allowed  to  have  any.  All  they  were  allowed  to  do  was  hold  Paul's  robes,  when  he  walked  around.  &quot;Take  me  home,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;'Take  me  home  instantly.  If  there  is  anything  worse  than  being  home,  it  is  being  out.&quot;  &quot;You  shouldn't  drop  your  garhage  out  of  windows  Hogo,&quot;  Jane  said.  I  understood  what  she  was  saying.  But  Hogo  is  a  cruel  parody  of  ultimate  con-  cern.  His  garbage  falls  on  Northerners  and  Southerners  and  Westerners  alike.  &quot;I  had  a  dream,&quot;  Jane  said.  &quot;In  the  dream  we  were  drinking  a  yellow  wine.  Then  the  winemaker  came  in.  He  said  the  wine  was  made  of  old  copies  of  the  National  Geographic.  I  had  thought  it  tasted  musty.  Then  " b"he  said  no,  that  was  just  a  joke.  The  wine  was  really  made  of  grapes,  like  every  wine.  But  these  were  grapes  to  which  the  sun  had  not  been  kind,  he  said.  'They  had  shrivelled  for  lack  ofthe  sun's  love.  That  was  why  the  wine  was  like  that.  Then  he  talked  about  lovers  and  husbands.  He  said  the  lover  eats  his  meat  with  his  eyes  not  on  the  meat  but  on  the  eyesof  the  beloved.  The  husband  watches  the  meat.  The  hus-  band  knows  that  the  meat  will  fly  away  if  not  watched.  The  winemaker  thought  this  was  really  a  funny  story.  He  laughed  and  laughed.&quot;  Hogo  got  ready  to  say  something  despicable.  But  it  was  too  late.  &quot;That's  pretty  care-  less,&quot;  Hubert  said,  and  we  all  agreed  that  if  you  were  going  to  have  a  girl  tied  to  a  bed,  then  at  least  the  knots  should  be  secure.  I  had  already  gotten  the  flashlight  from  its  place  under  the  sink,  and  was  working  on  the  brilliant  vellow  and  scarlet  and  blue  bandages.  We  had  hoped  to  slip  into  the  hospital  without  being  challenged,  but  the  doc-  tor  recognized  us  right  away.  Henry  had  unlocked  the  locks  on  the  bar  and  we  were  all  drinking.  It  was  time  for  a  situation  report,  we  felt.  &quot;She  still  sits  there  in  the  window,  dan-  gling  down  her  long  black  hair  black  as  ebony.  The  crowds  have  thinned  somewhat.  Our  letters  have  been  re-  turned  unopened.  The  shower  cur-  tain  initiative  has  not  produced  notable  results.  She  is,  I  would  say,  aware  of  it,  but  has  not  reacted  either  positively  or  negatively.  We  have  asked  an  ex-  pert  in  to  assess  it  asto  timbre,  pitch,  mood,  and  key.  He  should  be  here  tomorrow.  To  make  sure  we  have  got  the  right  sort  of  shower  curtain.  We  have  returned  the  red  towels  to  Bloom-  ingdale's.&quot;  At  this  point  everybody  looked  at  Dan,  who  vomited.  &quot;Bill's  yellow  cr\xc3\xa9pe-paper  pajamas  have  been  taken  away  from  him  and  burned.  He  ruined  that  night  for  all  of  us,  you  know  that.&quot;  At  this  point  everybody  looked  at  Bill,  who  was  absent.  He  was  tending  the  vats.  &quot;Bill's  new  brown  monk's-cloth  pajamas,  made  for  him  by  Paul,  should  be  here  next  month.  The  grade  of  pork  ears  we  are  using  in  the  Baby  Ding  Sam  Dew  is  not  capable  of  meeting  [REDACTED]  Govt.  standards,  or  indeed,  any  standards.  Our  man  in  [REDACTED]  Kong  assures  us  however  that  the  next  shipment  will  be  superior.  Sales  nationwide  are  brisk,  brisk,  brisk.  [REDACTED]  Instruments  is  down  four  points.  Control  Data  is  up  four  points.  The  pound  is  weakening.  The " b"cow  is  calving.  The  cactus  wants  wa-  tering.  The  new  building  is  a-building  with  leases  covering  forty-five  per  cent  of  the  rentable  space  already  in  hand.  The  weather  tomorrow,  fair  and  warmer.&quot;  &quot;Hello?  Is  this  Hogo  de  Bergerac?&quot;  &quot;Yes  this  is  Hogo  de  Bergerac.&quot;  &quot;Well  this  is  the  Internal  Revenue  Service,  [REDACTED]  Office,  Broat.  We  have  your  letter  here  in  which  you  offer  to  inform  on  Bill,  Kevin,  Edward,  Hen-  ry,  Hubert,  [REDACTED],  and  Dan  for  seven-  teen  per  cent  of  the  moneys  collected.  We  deeply  appreciate  your  getting  in  touch  with  us  but  I  must  tell  you  that  we  pay  only  eight  per  cent.&quot;  &quot;Eight  per  cent!&quot;  &quot;Yes  I'm  sorry  I  know  that's  low  as  these  things  go  around  the  world  and  in  previous  years  we  have  paid  more,  but  it's  standard  now  and  if  we  paid  you  seventeen  per  cent  all  the  other  informers  would  demand  the  same.  You  can  imagine.&quot;  &quot;Eight  per  cent!&quot;  &quot;Yes,  well,  but  of  course  there's  patriotism  involved  too  isn't  there.&quot;  &quot;Eight  per  cent!  That's  damned  little  for  doing  such  a  vile  and  dishonorable  thing,  damned  little.&quot;  &quot;Yes  I  know  but  what  is  the  nature  of  your  information?  You're  aware  of  course  that  it's  not  enough  just  to  allege.  You  have  to  be  able  to  provide  supportive  evidence  or  at  least  sufficient  material  to  lead  to  a  strong  case  and  ultimately  conviction  and/or  collection.&quot;  &quot;Eight  per  cent!&quot;  &quot;I  might  also  point  out  that  itis  your  duty  as  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  citizen  to  come  forward  with  this  information  if  you  have  it.&quot;  &quot;Eight  per  cent,  eight  per  cent.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  hear  me?  I  said  it  was  your  duty  as  an  556e6974656420537461746573n-&quot;  &quot;I  am  not  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  citizen.  I  am  under  Panamanian  registry.  So  just  forget  my  duty  as  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  citizen.  Eight  per  cent.  No,  I  don't  think  I'm  talking  to  you  anymore.  There  would  be  some  pleasure  in  doing  the  thing  just  for  the  pure  vileness  of  it,  but  there  is  more  pleasure  in  spitting  on  your  eight  per  cent.  Goodbye,  [REDACTED].  Eight  per  cent.  Good  night,  [REDACTED],  and  bad  cess  to  you.&quot;  Standing  in  the  rotten  bathroom,  we  regarded  the  new  shower  curtain.  It  had  two  colors,  a  red  and  a  yellow.  The  red  the  red  of  red  cabbage,  the  yellow  the  yellow  of  yellow  beans.  It  had  two  figures,  a  kind  of  schematic  peahen,  a  kind  of  schematic  vase.  These  repeated,  in  the  manner  of  wallpaper.  There  were  eight  ofus  standing  there  in  the  rotten  bathroom,  including  the  " b"visitor.  The  visitor  who  had  said  that  it  was  the  best-looking  shower  curtain  in  town.  Ho  ho.  That  was  a  chiller.  We  had  known  that  it  was  adequate.  We  had  known  that  it  was  nice.  We  had  even  known  that  it  was  &quot;splendid&quot;  more  or  less,  That  was  the  idea,  that  it  be  &quot;splendid.&quot;  But  we  had  not  known  that  it  was  the  best-looking  shower  cur-  tain  in  town.  That  we  had  not  known.  We  looked  at  the  shower  curtain  with  new  eyes,  or  rather,  saw  it  in  a  new  light,  the  light  of  the  esthetician's  re-  mark.  The  visitor  was  an  esthetician,  a  professor  of  esthetics.  Even  those  of  us  by  no  means  a  minority  who  considered  esthetics  the  least  virile  of  the  several  areas  of  inquiry  subsumed  under  the  term  &quot;philosophical  thought&quot;  were  af-  fected  by  the  esthetician's  remark.  First  because  it  had  as  subject  something  that  was  ours,  there  in  the  rotten  bathroom,  on  little  silver  rings,  and  second  because  the  speaker  was  a  professor  of  esthetics,  even  if  there  is  nothing  in  it,  esthetics,  as  is  likely.  As  we  stood  there  shoulder  to  shoulder  in  the  rotten  bathroom,  the  eight  of  us,  a  sort  of  hunger  arose  to  know  if  it  was  true,  what  he  had  said.  Felt  I  daresay  by  all  of  us,  includ-  ing  the  esthetician;  he  must  be  curious  sometimes  to  know  if  it  is  true,  what  he  is  saying.  We  swayed,  momentarily,  there  in  the  rotten  bathroom,  in  the  grip  of  the  hunger.  A  thousand  prob-  lems  flashed  through  our  mind.  How  could  we  determine  if  it  was  true,  what  he  had  said?  Our  city  is  not  large  but  on  the  other  hand  not  small,  in  excess  of  a  hundred  thousand  souls  swelter  here  awaiting  the  Last  Day  and  God's  mercy.  A  census  of  shower  cur-  tains  was  possible  but  to  conduct  it  we  would  be  forced  to  neglect  the  vats  and  that  is  something  we  have  sworn  never  to  do,  neglect  the  vats.  And  to  conduct  it  we  would  be  forced  to  leave  the  buildings  unwashed,  and  that  is  some-  thing  else  we  have  sworn  never  to  do,  leave  the  buildings  unwashed.  And  granting  we  managed  to  gain  access  to  the  rotten  bathrooms  of  all  hundred  thousand  souls  who  swelter  here,  by  what  standards  were  the  hundred  thou-  sand  shower  curtains  hanging  there,  on  little  silver  rings,  to  be  assessed?  A  shower  curtain  scale  could  be  construct-  ed.  A  shower  curtain  scale  could  be  constructed  with  the  aid  of  the  professor  of  esthetics,  or  with  the  aid  of  shower  curtain  critics  recruited  from  the  cur-  taining  journals,  if  there  are  such  critics  and  such  journals,  I  do  not  doubt  it.  But  even  with  these  preliminary  accom-  plishments-empanelment  of  shower  curtain  critics,  from  far  and  near,  cen-     sus  of  shower  curtain-hanging  homes," b"the  quarter-finals,  the  semifinals,  the  finals-we  would  not  be  out  of  the  woods  yet.  For  would  the  decision,  broadcast  over  all  media,  published  throughout  the  land,  not  be  taken  as  diddled,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  Olympiad  was  staged  by  us,  backers  of  the  no  doubt  winning  shower  curtain?  There  was  another  solution:  destruc-  tion  of  the  esthetician,  who  had  made  the  original  remark.  'This  thought  sighed  amongst  us,  seven  heads  turned  as  one  to  regard  the  e'ghth,that  of  the  esthetician,  sweating  in  his  velvet  collar,  there  in  the  rotten  bathroom.  But  de-  struction  of  the  esthetician,  however  attractive  from  a  human  point  of  view,  would  not  also  insure  destruction  of  his  detritus,  his  remark.  The  remark  would  rema'n  in  memory,  in  our  memories.  We  would  then  be  forced  to  wipe  our-  selves  out  also,  a  step  which  we  would  hesitate  to  take  waiting  as  we  are  for  the  Last  Day  and  God's  mercy.  And  how  could  we  be  sure  after  all  that  he  had  not  made  the  same  remark  to  someone  else,  someone  not  of  our  circle,  some  stranger  unknown  to  us?  Known  to  him  but  unknown  to  us?  And  that  the  remark  would  not  remain  unwiped  in  the  brain  of  this  stranger?  And  how  could  we  be  sure  that  this  stranger  was  not,  even  as  we  were  standing  there  in  the  rotten  bathroom,  relaying  the  remark  to  some  other,  even  less  repu-  table  stranger?  And  that  this  second  stranger  did  not  have  friends,  all  of  an  even  filthier  repute  than  himself,  to  whom  he  intended  babbling  the  remark,  at  the  first  opportunity?  And  that  we  might  not  expect  a  quorum  of  unde-  sirables,  sitting  in  the  cathouse  square,  to  be  rubbing  and  smearing  this  piece  of  intelligence  with  their  ruin  before  6  p.m.  by  the  cathouse  clock,  this  very  day?  We  trembled,  there  in  the  rotten  bathroom,  thinking  these  thoughts.  &quot;I  admire  you  Hogo.  I  admire  the  way  yo  u  are  what  you  are,  rocklike  in  your  immutability.  I  also  admire  the  wa  y  you  u  se  these  Pontiac-convertible  se  ats  for  chairs  in  you  r  house.  But  mine  i  s  uncomfortable.  Only  because  I  am  gl  ued  into  it  with  several  pou  nds  of  e  poxy  glue.  Oh  I  know  I  laugh  ed  when  you  b  rushe  d  it  onto  my  h  ips  on  Wednesday,  saying  it  was  honey  and  I  was  honey-hipped.  I  laughed  then.  But  I  am  not  laughing  n  ow.  Now  it  has  hardened,  like  your  heart  toward  me  Hogo.&quot;  &quot;It  was  honey-colored  I  said.  No  more  than  that.  It  is  because  I  want  you  near  me  Jane  for  some  strange  reason  I  don't  even  understand  myself.  It  must  be  atavistic.  It  must  be     " b"some  dark  reason  of  the  blood  which  the  conscious  mind  does  not  under-  stand.  That  is  the  stinking  truth,  God's  Body  but  I  wish  it  were  not.&quot;  &quot;Stop  it  Hogo  stop  it  lest  I  forget  who  is  the  glued  party  here.  Stop  it  and  get  me  some  hot  water.&quot;  The  ape  fingersof  Jane's  familiars  penetrated  the  chain-  link-fence  walls  of  Hogo's  house.  Looking  through  the  walls,  past  the  apes,  one  could  see  Jane  and  Hogo,  having  a  talk.  &quot;Hogo  this  house  is  an  architectural  masterpiece  in  a  certain  sense.&quot;  &quot;What  sense  is  that.&quot;  &quot;In  the  sense  that  you  get  a  sense  of  'chain'  from  these  chain-link-fence  walls  that  is  entirely  appropriate  to  your  enter-  prise.  I  mean  the  enterprise  of  being  a  bad  fellow.  And  to  make  the  ceiling  of  General  Motors  advertising  was  a  bril-  liant  stroke.  When  one  bears  in  mind  that  General  Motors  is  Pontiac,  and  Pontiac  is  your  middle  name.&quot;  &quot;He  was  an  Indian  chief  Jane,  hero  of  a  famous  conspiracy,  the  conspiracy  that  bears  his  name  in  fact.&quot;  &quot;I  know  that  Hogo.  Every  schoolboy  knows  that,  and  many  schoolgirls  too,  thanks  to  the  democratization  of  education  in  our  country.  How  fitting  that  your  ceiling  should  be  named  for  a-&quot;  &quot;I  thought  it  fitting.&quot;  &quot;What  is  to  become  of  us  Hogo.  Of  you  and  me.&quot;  &quot;Nothing  is  to  become  of  us  Jane.  Our  becoming  is  done.  We  are  what  we  are.  Now  it  is  just  a  question  of  rocking  along  with  things  as  they  are  until  we  are  [REDACTED];  &quot;You  don't  paint  a  very  bright  picture  Hogo.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  my  picture  Jane,  I  didn't  think  up  this  picture  that  we  are  confronted  with.  The  original  brush-  work  was  not  mine.  I  absolutely  sepa-  rate  myself  from  this  picture.  I  operate  within  the  frame  it  is  true,  but  the  pic-  ture-&quot;  &quot;How  old  are  you  Hogo.&quot;  &quot;Thirty-five  Jane.  A  not  unpleasant  age  to  be.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  mind  then.  That  you  are  not  young.&quot;  &quot;It  has  its  buggy  aspects  as  what  does  not?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  mind  then  that  you  are  sagging  in  the  direction  of  death.&quot;  &quot;No  Jane.&quot;  Hubert  complains  that  the  electric  wastebasket  has  been  overheating.  I  haven't  noticed  it  but  that's  what  Hu-  bert  says  and  Hubert  is  rarely  wrong  about  things  that  don't  matter.  The  electric  wastebasket  is  a  security  item.  Papers  dropped  into  it  are  destroyed  instantly.  How  the  electric  wastebasket  accomplishes  this  is  not  known.  An  in-  timidation  followed  by  a  demoralization  eventuating  in  a  disintegration,  one  as-  sumes.  It  is  not  emptied.  There  are  not  even  ashes.  It  functions  with  a  quiet  hum  digesting  whatever  we  do  not  wish  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  enemi.  The  record  of  Bill's  trial  when  he  is  tried  will  go  into  the  electric  wastebasket.  When  we  considered  the  destruction  of  the  esthetician  we  had  in  mind  the  electric  wastebasket.  First  dismemberment,  then  the  electric  wastebasket.  That  there  are  in  the  world  electric  wastebaskets  is  encourag-  ing.  Kevin  spoke  to  Hubert.  &quot;There  is  not  enough  seriousness  in  what  we  do,&quot;  Kevin  said.  &quot;Everyone  wanders  around  having  his  own  individual  perceptions.  These,  like  balls  of  different  colors  and  shapes  and  sizes,  roll  around  on  the  green  billiard  table  of  conscious-  ness.  ...&quot;  Kevin  stopped  and  began  again.  &quot;Where  is  the  figure  in  the  car-  pet?  Or  isit  just  .  ..  carpet?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Where  is-&quot;  &quot;You're  talking  a  lot  of  buffalo  hump,  you  know  that,&quot;  Hubert  said.  Hubert  walked  away.  Kevin  stood  there.  &quot;That  encounter  did  not  go  well.  Perhaps  I  said  the  wrong  thing?&quot;  Kevin  blushed  furious,  ly  at  the  thought  that  he  might  have  said  the  wrong  thing.  Red  blushes  sat  upon  his  neck.  &quot;What  could  I  have  done,  to  make  it  'go't  What  is  this  gift  that  others  have,  that  I  do  not  have,  that  chokes  the  Other  with  love,  at  the  very  sight  of  one?&quot;  Kevin's  pre-  encounter  happiness  leaked  away.  He  had  been  happy  before  the  encounter,  but  after  it,  he  was  not.  &quot;My  God  but  we  are  fragile.&quot;  &amp;  Snow  White  hung  her  hair  again  out  of  the  window.  It  was  longer  now.  It  was  about  four  feet  long.  She  had  just  washed  it  too  with  golden  Prell.  She  was  experiencing  a  degree  of  anger  at  male  domination  of  the  physical  world.  &quot;Oh  if  I  could  just  get  my  hands  on  the  man  who  dubbed  those  electrical  connections  male  and  fe-  male!  He  thought  he  was  so  worldly.  And  if  I  could  just  get  my  hands  on  the  man  who  called  that  piece  of  pipe  a  nipple!  He  thought  he  was  so  urbane.  But  that  didn't  prevent  them  from  making  a  hash  of  the  buffalo  problem  you'll  notice.  Where  have  the  buffalo  gone?  You  can  go  for  miles  and  miles  and  miles  and  miles  and  miles  and  miles  and  hundreds  of  miles  without  seeing  a  single  one!  And  that  didn't  prevent  them  from  letting  the  railroads  grab  all  the  best  land!  And  that  didn't  prevent  them  from  letting  alienation  seep  in  everywhere  and  cover  every-  thing  like  a  big  gray  electric  blanket  that  doesn't  work,  after  you  have     " b"pushed  the  off-on  switch  to  the  'on'  position!  So  don't  come  around  and  accuse  me  of  not  being  serious.  Wom-  en  may  not  be  serious,  but  at  least  they're  not  a  damned  fool!&quot;  Snow  White  took  her  head  out  of  the  win-  dow,  and  pulled  in  herlong  black  hair  which  had  been  dangling  down.  &quot;No  one  has  come  to  climb  up.  That  says  it  all.  This  time  is  the  wrong  time  for  me.  I  am  in  the  wrong  time.  There  is  something  wrong  with  all  those  peo-  p16  standing  there,  gaping  and  gawk-  ing.  And  with  all  those  who  did  not  come  and  at  least  try  to  climb  up.  To  fill  the  role.  And  with  the  very  world  itself,  for  not  being  able  to  supply  a  prince.  For  not  being  able  to  at  least  be  civilized  enough  to  supply  the  cor-  rect  ending  to  the  story.&quot;  now  Wurre  had  another  glass  of  healthy  orange  juice.  &quot;From  now  on  I  deny  myself  to  them.  These  delights.  I  maintain  an  esthetic  distance.  No  more  do  I  trip  girlishly  to  their  bed  in  thenight,  or  after  lunch,  or  in  the  misty  mid-morning.  Not  thatI  ever  did.  It  was  always  my  whim  which  governed  those  gregarious  encounters  summed  up  so  well  by  Livy  in  the  phrase  wee  victis.  I  congratulate  my-  self  on  that  score  at  least.  And  no  more  will  I  chop  their  onions,  boil  their  fet-  tucini,  or  marinate  their  flank  steak.  No  more  will  I  trudge  about  the  house  pursuing  stain.  No  more  will  I  fold  their  lingerie  in  neat  bundles  and  stuff  it  away  in  the  highboy.  I  am  not  even  going  to  speak  to  them,  now,  except  through  third  parties,  or  if  I  have  something  special  to  announce-a  new  nuance  of  my  mood,  a  new  vagary,  a  new  extravagant  caprice.  I  don't  know  what  such  a  policy  will  win  me.  I  am  not  even  sure  I  wish  to  implement  it.  It  seems  small  and  mean-spirited.  I  have  conflicting  ideas.  But  the  main  theme  that  runs  through  my  brain  is  that  what  is,  is  insufficient.  Where  did  that  sulky  notion  come  from?  From  the  rental  library,  doubtless.  Perhaps  the  seven  men  should  have  left  me  in  the  forest.  To  perish  there,  when  all  the  roots  and  berries  and  rabbits  and  robins  had  been  exhausted.  If  I  had  perished  then,  I  would  not  be  thinking  now.  It  is  true  that  there  is  a  future  in  which  I  shall  inevitably  perish.  There  is  that.  Thinking  terminates.  One  shall  not  always  be  leaning  on  one's  elbow  in  the  bed  at  a  quarter  to  four  in  the  morning,  wondering  if  the  Japanese  are  happier  than  their  piglike  Western" b"contemporaries.  Another  orange  juice,  with  a  little  vodka  in  it  this  time.&quot;  &quot;I  have  killed  this  whole  bottle  of  Chablis  wine  bymyself,&quot;  Dan  said.  &quot;And  that  other  bottle  of  Chablis  too-  that  one  under  the  bed.  And  that  other  bottle  of  Chablis  too-the  one  with  the  brown  candle  stuck  in  the  mouth  of  it.  And  I  am  not  afraid.  Not  of  what  may  come,  not  of  what  has  been.  Now  I  will  light  that  long  cigar,  that  cigar  that  stretches  from  Mont-Saint-Michel  &amp;  Chartres  to  under  the  volcano.  What  is  merely  fashionable  will  fade  away,  and  what  is  merely  new  will  fade  away,  but  what  will  not  fade  away  is  the  way  I  feel:  analogies  break  down,  regimes  break  down,  but  the  way  I  feel  re-  mains.  I  feel  abandoned.  After  a  hard  day  tending  the  vats,  and  washing  the  buildings,  one  wants  to  come  home  and  find  a  leg  of  mutton  on  the  table,  in  a  rich  gravy,  with  little  pearly  onions  studded  in  it,  and  perhaps  a  small  pot  of  Irish  potatoes  somewhere  about.  In-  stead  I  come  home  to  this  nothingness.  Now  she  sits  in  her  room  reading  Dis-  sent  and  admiring  her  figure  in  the  mirror.  She  still  loves  us,  ina  way,  but  it  isn't  enough.  It  is  a  failure  of  leader-  ship,  I  feel.  We  have  been  left  sucking  the  mop  again.  True  leadership  would  make  her  love  us  fiercely  and  exciting,  ly,  as  in  the  old  days.  True  leadership  would  find  a  way  out  of  this  hairy  im-  broglio.  I  am  tired  of  Bill's  halting  ex-  planations,  promises.  If  he  doesn't  want  to  lead,  then  let  us  vote.  That  is  all  I  have  to  say,  except  one  more  thing:  when  one  has  been  bending  over  a  hot  vat  all  day  one  doesn't  want  to  come  home  and  hear  a  lot  of  hump  from  a  cow-hearted  leader  whose  leadership  buttons  have  fallen  off-some  fellow  who  spends  the  dreamy  days  eating  cab-  bage  and  watching  ships,  while  you  are  at  work.  Work,  with  its  charts,  its  lines  of  authority,  its  air  of  importance.&quot;  &quot;The  refusal  of  emotion  produces  nervousness,&quot;  Bill  said  dipping  into  the  barrel  of  decadent  absinthe.  &quot;Remem-  ber  that.  You  are  tense  as  a  wire  walker  Hubert.  If  it  is  still  possible  to  heave  a  sigh  you  should  heave  it.  If  itis  still  possible  to  rip  out  a  groan  you  should  rip  it  out.  If  it  is  still  possibleto  smite  the  brow  with  anguished  forefinger  then  you  should  let  that  forefinger  fall.  And  there  are  expostulations  and  en-  treaties  that  meet  the  case  to  be  found  in  old  books,  look  them  up.  This  con-  catenation  of  outward  and  visible  signs  " b"may,  I  say  may,  detonate  an  inward  invisible  subjective  correlative,  boom-  ing  in  the  deeps  ofthe  gut  like  an  Alka-  Seltzer  to  produce  tranquillity.  I  say  may.  And  you  others  there,  lounging  about  with  expressions  of  steely  uncon-  cern,  you  are  just  like  Hubert.  The  dis-  ease  is  the  same  and  the  remedy  is  the  same.  As  for  me,  I  am  out  of  it.  I  have  copted  out  if  you  want  to  put  it  that  way.  After  a  life  rich  in  emotional  de-  feats,  I  have  looked  around  for  other  modes  of  misery,  otherroads  to  destruc-  tion.  Now  I  limit  myself  to  listening  to  what  people  say,  and  thinking  what  pamby  it  is,  what  they  say.  My  nourish-  ment  is  refined  from  the  ongoing  circus  of  the  mind  in  motion.  Give  me  the  odd  linguistic  trip,  stutter,  and  fall,  and  I  will  be  content.  Actually,  when  you  get  right  down  to  it,  I  should  be  the  monk,  and  Paul  the  leader  here.&quot;  &quot;We  have  entertained  the  notion,&quot;  Hubert  said.  &quot;'They  can  treat  me  like  a  rube  if  they  wish,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said  holding  tightly  to  the  two  hundred  bottles  of  Lone  Star  at  the  [REDACTED]  4368696c65  House.  &quot;I  suppose  I  am  a  rubish  hayseed  in  some  sense,  full  of  downhome  notions  that  contradict  the  more  sophisticated  no-  tions  of  my  colleagues.  But  I  notice  that  itis  to  me  they  come  when  it  is  a  questionof  grits  or  chitlings  or  fried  catfish.  Of  course  these  questions  do  not  arise  very  often.  I  have  not  had  a  whiff  of  fried  catfish  these  twelve  years!  How  many  nights  have  I  trudged  home  with  my  face  fixed  for  fried  catfish,  only  to  findthat  we  were  having  fried  cala-  marettior  some  other  Eastern  dish.  Not  that  I  would  put  down  those  tender  rings  of  squid  deep-fried  in  olive  oil.  I  even  like  the  squarish  can  the  olive  oil  comes  in,  emblazoned  with  green-and-  gold  devices,  flowery  emblemature  out  of  the  nineteenth  century.  It  makes  my  mouth  water  just  to  look  at  it,  that  can.  But  why  am  I  talking  to  myself  about  cans?  Cans  are  not  what  is  troubling  me.  What  is  troubling  me  is  the  quality  of  life  in  our  great  country,  [REDACTED].  It  seems  to  me  to  be  deprived.  I  don't  mean  that  the  deprived  people  are  de-  prived,  although  they  are,  clearly,  but  that  even  the  fat  are  deprived.  I  sup-  pose  one  could  say  that  they  are  all  humpheads  and  let  it  go  at  that.  I  am  worried  by  the  fact  that  no  one  re-  sponded  to  Snow  White's  hair  initia-  tive.  Even  though  I  am  at  the  same  time  relieved.  But  it  suggests  that  556e6974656420537461746573ns  will  not  or  cannot  see  them-  selves  as  princely.  Even  Paul,  that  most  princely  of  our  contemporaries,  did  not  respond  appropriately.  Of  course  it  may  " b"be  that  princely  is  not  a  good  thing  to  be.  And  of  course  there  is  our  long  democratic  tradition  which  is  anti-aris-  tocratic.  Egalitarianism  precludes  liness.  And  yet  our  people  are  not  equal  in  any  sense.  They  are  either  ...  The  poorest  of  them  are  slaves  as  surely  as  if  they  were  chained  to  gigantic  wooden  oars.  The  richest  of  them  have  the  faces  of  cold  effete  homosexuals.  And  those  in  the  middle  are  wonderfully  con-  fused.  Redistribute  the  money.  That  will  not  ameliorate  everything,  but  it  will  ameliorate  some  things.  Redistrib-  ute  the  money.  This  can  be  achieved  in  only  one  way.  By  making  the  rich  happier.  New  lovers.  New  lovers  who  will  make  their  lives  exciting  and  'rich'  in  a  way  that  .  ..  We  must  pass  a  law  that  all  marriages  of  people  with  more  than  enough  money  are  dissolved  asof  tomorrow.  We  will  free  all  these  poor  moneyed  people  and  let  them  out  to  play.  The  quid  pro  quo  is  their  money.  Then  we  take  the  money  and-&quot;  Edward  was  blowing  his  mind,  un-  der  the  boardwalk.  &quot;Well  my  mind  is  blown  now.  Nine  mantras  and  three  bottles  of  insect  repellent,  under  the  boardwalk.  I  shall  certainly  be  sick  to-  morrow.  But  it  is  worth  it  to  have  a  blown  mind.  To  stop  being  a  filthy  bourgeois  for  a  space,  even  a  short  space.  To  gain  access  to  everything  in  a  new  way.  Under  the  boardwalk.  Those  cream  Corfam  shoes  clumping  overhead.  I  understand  them  now,  for  the  first  time.  Not  their  molecular  structure,  in  which  I  am  not  particu-  larly  interested,  but  their  sacredness.  Their  centrality.  They  are  the  center  of  everything,  those  shoes.  They  are  it.  I  know  that,  now.  Too  bad  it  is  not  worth  knowing.  Too  bad  it  is  not  true.  It  is  not  even  temporarily  true.  Well,  that  must  mean  that  my  mind  is  not  fully  blown.  That  harsh  critique.  More  insect  repellent!&quot;  IT  WAS  NOT  UNTIL  THE  19th  CENTURY  THAT  RUSSIA  PRODUCED  A  LITERATURE  WORTHY  OF  BECOMING  PART  OF  THE  WORLD'S  CULTURAL  HERITAGE.  PUSH-  KIN  DISPLAYED  VERBAL  FACILITY.  GOGOL  WAS  A  REFORMER.  AS  A  43616e616461YLI43616e616461  DO43616e616461OEVSKY  HAD  MANY  SHORTCOMINGS.  TOL43616e616461OY  ...  N  her  chamber  Snow  White  re-  moved  her  coat,  and  then  her  shirt,  and  then  her  slip,  and  thenher  bra.  The  bare  breasts  remained.  Standing  by  the  window  Snow  White  regarded  her  bare  breasts,  by  pointing  her  head  down.  &quot;Well,  what  is  there  to  think  about  them?  Usually  I  don't  think  about  them  at  all,  but  think,  rather,  about  common  occurrences,  like  going  to  the  bowling  alley  or  seeing,  in  the  sky,  the  wingspread  of  a  gigantic  jet  aircraft.  But  recent  events,  or  lack  of  events,  have  provoked  in  me  a  crisis  of  confidence.  But  let  us  take  stock.  These  breasts,  my  own,  still  stand  del-  icately  away  from  the  trunk,  as  they  are  supposed  to  do.  And  the  trunk  itself  is  not  unappealing.  In  fact  trunk  is  a  rather  mean  word  for  the  main  part  of  this  assemblage  of  felicities.  The  Cream-of-Wheat  belly!  The  stunning  arse,  in  the  rococo  mirror!  And  then  the  especially  good  legs,  including  the  important  knees.  I  have  nothing  but  praise  for  this  delicious  assortment!  But  my  curly  mind  has  problems  dis-  tinct  from  although  related  to  those  of  my  scrumptious  body.  The  curious  physicality  of  my  existence  here  on  [REDACTED]  is  related  to  both  parts  of  the  mind-body  problem,  the  mind  part  and  the  body  part.  Although  I  secretly  know  that  my  body  is  my  mind.  The  way  it  acts  sometimes,  spontaneously  and  scandalously  hurling  itself  into  the  arms  of  bad  situations,  with  never  a  care  for  who  is  watching  or  real  values.  No  wonder  we  who  are  twenty-two  don't  trust  anybody  over  twelve.  That  is  where  you  find  people  who  know  the  score,  under  twelve,  I  think  I  will  go  out  and  speak  to  some  eleven-year-  olds,  now,  to  refresh  myself.  Now  or  soon.&quot;  Snow  White  regarded  her  nice-  looking  breasts.  &quot;Not  the  bestI've  ever  seen.  But  not  the  worst.&quot;  &amp;  Bobble  was  one  of  the  boys  who  was  there.  He  had  a  hair  style  that,  I  don't  know,  some  of  you  may  not  like,  and  there  were  other  things  wrong  with  him  too.I  had  thought  that  in  terms  of  mettle  he  would  glister  like  a  fire  escape.  Whereas  in  fact  he  was  a  sack  of  timidities.  That  much  was  clear.  But  we  had  sent  for  him  so  we  had  to  talkto  him.  &quot;All  right  lad  this  is  what  we  want  with  you.  Your  mis-  sion  is  this:  to  go  out  into  the  world  and  pull  down  all  those  election  post-  ers.  We  have  decided  to  stop  voting,  so  pull  down  the  posters.  Let's  get  all  those  ugly  faces  off  our  streets  and  out  of  our  elective  offices.  We  are  not  going  to  vote  anymore,  no  matter  how  often  they  come  around  with  their  sound  trucks  and  statesmanlike  gestures,  Pull  down  the  sound  trucks.  Pull  down  the  " b"outstretched  arms.  To  hell  with  the  whole  business.  Voting  has  turned  out  to  be  a  damned  impertinence.  They  never  do  what  we  want  them  to  do  anyhow.  And  when  they  do  what  we  don't  want  them  to  do,  they  don't  do  it  well.  To  hell  with  them.  We  are  go-  ing  to  save  up  all  our  votes  for  the  next  twenty  years  and  spend  them  all  at  one  time.  Maybe  by  that  day  there  will  be  some  Rabelaisian  figure  worth  spend-  ing  them  on.  And  so,  raw  youth,  with  your  tentative  air,  go  out  and  work  our  will  on  the  physical  world.  We  are  going  to  go  whole  hogon  this  program,  to  a  certain  extent,  and  you  are  our  chosen  instrument.  We  are  not  particu-  larly  proud  of  you,  but  you  exist,  in  some  rough  way,  and  that  is  enough,  for  our  purposes.  You  are  sub-attrac-  tive,  Bobble,  and  so  are  your  peers  there,  but  here  is  the  money,  and  there  is  the  task.  Get  going.&quot;  Under  the  tree,  Paul  stood  looking  through  the  window  at  Snow  White,  withher  bare  breasts.  &quot;God  Almighty,&quot;  Paul  said  to  himself.  &quot;It's  a  good  thing  it  occurred  to  me  to  stand  under  this  tree  and  look  through  this  window.  It's  a  good  thing  I  am  on  leave  from  the  monastery.  It's  a  good  thing  I  had  my  reading  glasses  in  my  upper  robe  pock-  et.&quot;  Paul  read  the  message  written  on  Snow  White's  unwrapped  breasts.  &quot;She  is  just  like  one  of  those  dancers  one  sees  from  time  to  time  on  Bourbon  Street  in  New  Orleans,  and  in  selected  areas  of  other  cities.  In  the  smaller  cities  the  dancers  are  sometimes  forced  by  the  police  to  put  on  more  garb.  But  without  garb  these  girls  bring  joy,  with  their  movements,  lack  of  movements....  Dancing  is  diverting  if  you  are  watch-  ing,  and  also  if  you  are  dancing  your-  self.  But  how  can  you  'dance  yourself  ?  Is  'self-dancing'  the  answer?  I  was  fond  of  stick  dancing  at  one  time.  There  was  some  joy  in  that.  But  then  a  man  came  and  said  I  was  using  the  wrong  kind  of  stick.  He  was  a  stick-  dancing  critic,  he  said,  and  no  one  used  that  kind  of  stick  anymore.  The  stick  of  choice,  he  said,  was  more  brutal  than  the  one  I  was  using,  or  less  brutal,  I  forget  which.  Brutalism  had  something  to  do  with  it.  Isaid  screw  off,  buddy,  leave  me  alone  with  my  old  stick,  the  stick  of  my  youth.  He  screwed  off,  then.  But  I  became  dissatisfied  with  that  stick,  subjected  as  it  had  been  for  the  first  time  to  the  scrutiny  ofa  first-  rate  intelligence.  I  sublet  the  stick.  And  that  is  why  I  have  become  everything  I  have  become  since,  including  what  I  now  am,  a  voyeur.&quot;  Paul  looked  again      " b"at  the  upper  part  of  Snow  White.  &quot;Looking  through  this  window  is  sweet.  The  sweetest  thing  that  has  happened  to  me  in  all  my  days.  Sweet,  sweet.&quot;  Paul  savored  the  sweetness  of  human  communication,  through  the  window.  PAUL  HAS  NEVER  BEFORE  REALLY  SEEN  SNOW  WHITE  AS  A  Woman.  Hogo  pushed  Paul  away  from  the  bloody  tree.  &quot;You  are  a  slime,  sir,  look-  ing  through  that  open  window  at  that  apparently  naked  girl  there,  the  most  beautiful  and  attractive  I  have  ever  seen,  in  all  my  life,  You  are  a  dis-  honor  to  the  robes  you  wear.  That  you  stand  here  without  shame  gazing  at  that  incredible  beauty,  at  her  snowy  buttocks  and  so  forth,  at  that  natural  majesty  I  perceive  so  well,  through  the  window,  is  endlessly  reprehensible,  in  our  society.  I  have  seen  some  vileness  in  my  time,  but  your  action  in  spying  upon  this  beautiful  unknown  beauty,  whom  I  already  love  with  all  my  heart  until  the  end  of  time,  is  the  most  vile  thing  that  the  mind  of  man  ever  broached.  I  am  going  to  set  a  rat  chew-  ing  at  your  belly,  false  monk,  for  if  there  is  anything  this  world  affords,  it  is  punishment.&quot;  &quot;You  have  a  good  line,  fellow,&quot;  Paul  said  coolly.  &quot;Per-  haps  next  you  would  care  to  make  a  few  remarks  about  uncarned  pessi-  mism  as  original  sin.&quot;  &quot;It  is  true  that  I  am  generally  in  favor  of  earned  pessi-  mism,  Paul,&quot;  Hogo  said.  &quot;And  I  have  carned  mine.  Yet  at  the  same  time  I  seem  to  feel  a  new  vigor,  optimism,  and  hope,  simply  through  the  medium  of  pouring  my  eyes  through  this  win-  dow.&quot;  &quot;It  is  strong  medicine,  this,&quot;  Paul  said,  and  they  put  their  arms  around  each  other's  shoulders  to  look  some  more,  but  Hogo  was  thinking  about  how  he  could  get  rid  of  Paul,  once  and  for  all,  permanently.  Hogo  began  to  make  a  plan.  It  was  to  be  a  large  plan,  a  plan  as  big  as  a  map.  Make  no  small  plans,  as  Po  tt  has  said.  The  object  of  the  plan  was  to  get  inside  the  h  ouse  when  no  one  wa  s  there.  No  one  but  Snow  White.  Hog  o  played  Polish  music  on  his  player.  Then  he  stuck  pins  in  his  plan  mark-  ing  points  of  entry  and  points  of  cjec-  tion.  Pins  of  red,  blue,  violet,  green,  yellow,  black,  and  white  bespattered  the  plan.  The  plan  oozed  out  over  the  floor  of  the  living  room  into  the  dining" b"room.  Then  it  ran  into  the  kitchen,  bedroom,  and  hall.  Plant  life  from  the  bursting  nature  outside  came  to  regard  the  plan.  A  green  finger  of  plant  life  lay  down  on  top  of  the  plan.  Jane  en-  tered  trailing  a  shopping  cart  filled  with  shopping.  &quot;What  is  all  this  paper  on  the  floor?&quot;  Hogo  lay  atop  the  plan,  and  atop  the  plant  life,  attempting  to  conceal  them.  &quot;It's  nothing.  Some  work  I  brought  home  from  the  office.&quot;  &quot;Why  then  are  you  making  those  swimming  motions  on  top  of  it?&quot;  &quot;I  was  taking  a  nap.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  look  like  a  nap  to  me.&quot;  Hogo  regarded  Jane.  He  noticed  that  she  had  her  graceful  'cello  shape,  still.  &quot;This  'cello-  shaped  girl  still  has  some  life  in  her,&quot;  Hogo  reflected.  &quot;Why  don't  I  spend  more  time  looking  at  her  and  drinking  in  her  seasoned  beauty.&quot;  But  then  he  thought  of  the  viola  da  gamba-shaped  Snow  White.  &quot;Why  is  it  that  we  al-  ways  require  'more,'  &quot;  Hogo  wondered.  &quot;Why  is  it  that  we  can  never  be  satis-  fied?  It  is  almost  as  if  we  were  designed  that  way.  As  if  that  were  part  of  the  cosmic  design.&quot;  Hogo  gathered  up  the  plan  and  packed  it  away  in  the  special  planning  humidor,  constructed  espe-  cially  to  keep  the  plan  fresh  and  excit-  ing.  &quot;Maybe  I  should  make  cigar  wrappers  of  this  plan,  to  conceal  it  from  its  enemies.  The  cigars  to  be  smoked  in  a  particular  order,  and  in  the  clouds  of  smoke  arising,  the  first  faint  dim  blue  outlines  of  the  plan.  I  wonder  what  the  chemistry  and  physics  of  that  would  be.&quot;  Hogo  regarded  the  packed  plan,  in  its  humidor.  &quot;It  seems  to  have  weak  spots.  The  possibility  of  resistance  from  those  within.&quot;  Hogo  imagined  the  resistance  leader  in  his  black  turtleneck  sweater.  &quot;I'll  wager  I  never  get  into  that  house  clandestinely,  the  resistance  will  be  so  stiff.  For  peo-  ple  who  have  a  treasure,  guard  it  with  their  lives.  What  a  wonk  I  am,  plan-  ning-wise!  I  will  have  to  think  up  a  new  abnegation  to  punish  myself  for  thinking  up  a  plan  this  poor-playing  the  accordion,  possibly.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  thinking  about?&quot;  Jane  asked  hold-  ing  tensely  to  the  handle  of  the  shop-  ping  cart.  &quot;Playing  the  accordion,&quot;  Hogo  said.  There  was  no  place  for  our  anger  and  frustration  to  go,  then,  so  we  went  out  and  hit  a  dog.  It  was  a  big  dog,  so  it  was  all  right.  It  was  fair.  The  gargantuan  iron  dog  nineteen  feet  high  commemorating  the  one  hun-  dredth  anniversary  of  the  invention  of  meat.  ...  &quot;Have  a  care,&quot;  Kevin  said.  It  was  a  brisk  day,  more  brisk  than  " b"some  of  the  others  we've  had.  The  girls  were  wrapping  their  heads  in  cloths  again,  bright-colored  cotton  going  around  the  top  and  the  back  part  and  tied  at  the  bottom  of  the  back  part,  where  the  sweet  neck  begins.  A  few  derelicts  and  bums  were  lying  around  in  front  of  the  house,  staining  the  side-  walk  pretty  well.  Bill  looked  tired.  I  gave  his  face  some  additional  looks.  Then  some  other  people  came  up  and  said  they  were  actors.  &quot;What  sort  of  actors?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  mean  good  or  bad?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  mean  that  but  what  is  the  answer?&quot;  &quot;Bad,  I'm  afraid,&quot;  the  chief  actor  said,  and  we  turned  away.  That  wasn't  what  we'd  wanted  to  hear.  Ev-  erything  was  complex  and  netlike,  The  stain  was  still  there  filtering  through  the  water  supply  and  the  pipes  and  car-  ried  in  suitcases  too.  The  old  waiter's  brown  suit  had  ponyskin  lapels.  That  was  depressing.  Hogo  has  announced  that  Paul  is  standing  in  the  middle  of  his,  Hogo's,  Lebensraum.  That  has  an  ominous  sound.  I  don't  like  the  sound  of  that  at  all.  We  had  a  few  more  Laughing  Marys  and  radishes.  Hogo  was  sharpening  his  kris.  The  whirling  grindstone  ground  the  steel.  There  was  a  noise-you  know  it  perhaps.  Hogo  tested  the  kris  against  his  thumb.  A  red  drop  of  blood.  The  kris  was  functioning  correctly.  After  Hogo  fin-  ished  sharpening  his  kris  he  began  sharpening  his  bolo.  Then  he  sharpened  his  parang  and  his  machete  and  his  dirk.  &quot;I  like  to  keep  everything  sharp.&quot;  The  President  looked  out  of  his  window  again.  It  was  another  night  like  that  night  we  described  previously  and  he  was  looking  out  of  the  same  window.  The  Dow-Jones  index  was  still  falling.  The  folk  were  still  in  tat-  ters.  The  President  turned  his  mind  for  a  millisecond  to  us,  here.  &quot;Great  balls  of  river  mud,&quot;  the  President  said.  &quot;Is  nothing  going  to  go  right?&quot;  I  don't  blame  him  for  feeling  that  way.  Everything  is  falling  apart.  A  lot  of  things  are  happening.  &quot;I  love  her  Jane,&quot;  Hogo  said.  &quot;Whoever  she  is,  she  is  mine,  and  I  am  hers,  virtually  if  not  actually,  forever.  I  feel  I  have  to  tell  you  this,  because  after  all  I  do  owe  you  something  for  having  been  the  butt  of  my  unpleasantness  for  so  long.  For  these  years.&quot;  &quot;The  poet  must  be  re-  assured  and  threatened,&quot;  Henry  said.  &quot;In  the  same  way,  Bill  must  be  brought  to  justice  for  his  bungling.  This  latest  bit  is  the  last  straw  absolutely.  I  see  the  trial  as  a  kind  of  analysis  really,  more  a  therapeutic  than  a  judicial  pro-  cedure.  We  must  discover  the  reason,  for  what  he  did.  When  he  threw  those  two  six-packs  of  Miller  High  Life  through  the  windscreen  of  that  blue  Volkswagen-&quot;  Paul  inspected  Snow  White's  window  from  his  underground  installation.  &quot;A  lucky  hit!  the  idea  of  installing  this  underground  instal-  lation  not  far  from  the  house.  Now  I  can  keep  her  under  constant  sur-  veillance,  through  this  system  of  mir-  rors  and  trained  dogs.  One  of  my  trained  dogs  is  even  now  investigating  that  overly  handsome  delivery  boy  from  the  meat  market,  who  lingered  far  too  long  at  the  door,  I  should  have  a  complete  report  by  first  light.  My  God  but  I  had  to  spend  a  lot  of  money  on  their  training.  An  estimated  two  thousand  dollars  per  dog.  Well,  one  assumes  that  it  is  money  well  spent.  IfI  undertook  this  project  with  under-  trained  dogs,there  is  a  good  chance  that  everything  would  go  glimmering.  Now  at  least  I  can  rely  on  the  dog  aspect  of  things.&quot;  Snow  White  was  in  the  kitchen,  scoring  the  meat.  &quot;Oh  why  does  fate  give  us  alternatives  to  annoy  and  frustrate  ourselves  with?  Why  for  instance  do  I  have  the  option  of  going  out  of  the  house,  through  the  window,  and  sleeping  with  Paul  in  his  pit?  Luck-  ily  that  alternative  is  not  a  very  attrac-  tive  one.  Paul's  princeliness  has  some-  how  fallen  away,  and  the  naked  Paul,  without  his  aura,  is  just  another  com-  placent  bourgeois.  And  I  thought  I  saw,  over  his  shoulder,  a  dark  and  vilely  compelling  figure  not  known  to  me,  as  I  looked  out  of  my  window,  in  the  mirror.  Who  is  that?  Compared  to  that  unknown  figure,  the  figure  of  Paul  is  about  as  attractive  as  a  mustard  plaster.  I  would  never  go  to  his  pit,  now.  Still,  as  a  possible  move,  it  clut-  ters  up  the  board,  obscuring  perhaps  a  more  exciting  one.&quot;  &quot;Now  I  have  been  left  sucking  the  mop  again,&quot;  Jane  blurted  out  in  the  rare-poison  room  of  her  mother's  mag-  nificent  duplex  apartment  on  a  tree-  lined  street  in  a  desirable  location.  &quot;I  havebeen  left  sucking  the  mop  in  a  big  way.  Hogo  de  Bergerac  no  longer  holds  me  in  the  highest  esteem.  His  highest  esteem  has  shifted  to  another,  and  now  he  holds  her  in  it,  and  I  am  alone  with  my  malice  at  last.  Face  to  face  with  it.  For  the  first  time  in  my  history,  I  have  no  lover  to  temper  my  malice  with  healing  balsam-scented  older  love.  Now  there  is  nothing  but  malice.&quot;  Jane  regarded  the  floor-to-  ceiling  Early  556e6974656420537461746573n  spice  racks  with  their  neatly  labelled  jars  of  various  sorts  of  bane  including  dayshade,  scumlock,  " b"hyoscine,  azote,  kohlrabi,  hurtwort,  and  milkleg.  &quot;Now  I  must  witch  someone,  for  that  is  my  role,  and  to  flee  one's  role,  as  Gimbal  tells  us,  is  in  the  final  analysis  bootless.  But  the  question  is,  what  form  shall  my  malice  take,  on  this  occasion?  This  braw  February  day?  Something  in  the  area  of  interpersonal  relations  would  be  interesting.  Whose  interpersonal  relations  shall  I  poison,  with  the  tasteful  savagery  of  my  abun-  dant  imagination  and  talent  for  con-  coction?  I  think  I  will  go  around  to  Snow  White's  house  where  she  cohabits  with  the  seven  men  in  a  mocksome  travesty  of  approved  behavior,  and  see  what  is  stirring  there.  If  something  is  stirring,  perhaps  I  can  arrange  a  sleep  for  it-in  the  corner  of  a  churchyard,  for  example.&quot;  &quot;Bill  will  you  begin.  By  telling  the  court  in  your  own  words  how  you  first  conceived  and  then  supported  this  chi-  mera,  the  illusion  of  your  potential  greatness.  By  means  of  which  you  have  managed  to  assume  the  leadership  and  retain  it,  despite  tons  of  evidence  of  total  incompetence,  the  most  recent  instance  being  your  hurlment  of  two  six-packs  of  Miller  High  Life,  in  a  brown  paper  bag,  through  the  wind-  screen  of  ablue  Volkswagen  operated  by  I.  Fondue  and  H.  Maeght.  Two  utter  and  absolute  strangers,  so  far  as  we  know.&quot;  &quot;Strangers  to  you  perhaps.  But  not  to  me.&quot;  &quot;Well  strangers  is  not  the  immediate  question.  Will  you  respond  to  the  im-  mediate  question.  How  did  you  first  conceive  and  then  sustain-&quot;  &quot;'The  conception  I  have  explained  more  or  less.  I  wanted  to  make,  of  my  life,  a  powerful  statement  etc.  etc.  How  this  wrinkle  was  first  planted  in  my  sensorium  I  know  not.  But  I  can  tell  you  how  it  is  sustained.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cI_IOW.P  \xc2\xbb  &quot;I  tell  myself  things.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;Bill  you  are  the  greatest.  Bill  you  did  that  very  nicely.  Bill  there  is  some-  thing  about  you.  Bill  you  have  style.  Bill  you  are  macho.&quot;  &quot;But  despite  this  blizzard  of  self-  gratulation-&quot;  &quot;A  fear  remained.&quot;  &quot;A  fear  of?&quot;  &quot;'The  black  horse.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Who  is  this  black  horse?&quot;  &quot;I  have  not  yet  met  it.  It  was  de-  scribed  to  me.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(By?\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;Fondue  and  Maeght.&quot;  &quot;'Those  two  who  were  at  the  con- " b"trols  of  the  Volkswagen  when  you  hurled  the  brown  paper  bag.&quot;  'That  is  correct.&quot;  &quot;You  cherished  then  for  these  two,  Fondue  and  Maeght,  a  hate?&quot;  &quot;More  of  a  miff,  your  worship.&quot;  &quot;Of  what  standing,  in  the  time  di-  mension,  is  this  miff?&quot;  &quot;Matter  of  let's  see  sixteen  years  I  would  say.&quot;  &quot;The  miff  had  its  genesis  in  men-  tionment  to  you  by  them  of  the  great  black  horse.&quot;  &quot;That  is  correct.&quot;  &quot;How  old  were  you  exactly?  At  that  time.&quot;  &quot;Twelve  years.&quot;  &quot;Something  said  to  you  about  a  horse  sixteen  years  ago  triggered,  then,  the  hurlment.&quot;  &quot;'That  is  correct.&quot;  &quot;Let  us  make  sure  we  understand  the  circumstances  of  the  hurlment.  Can  you  disbosom  yourself  very  briefly  of  the  event  as  seen  from  your  point  of  view?&quot;  &quot;It  was  about  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.&quot;  &quot;What  is  your  authority?&quot;  &quot;'The  cathouse  clock.&quot;  &quot;Proceed.&quot;  &quot;I  was  on  my  way  from  the  coin-  operated  laundry  to  the  Door  Store.&quot;  &quot;With  what  in  view?&quot;  &quot;I  had  in  mind  the  purchasement  of  a  slab  of  massif  oak,  forty-eight  by  sixty  inches,  and  a  set  of  carved  Byzan-  tine  legs,  for  the  construction  of  a  cocktail  table,  to  support  cocktails.&quot;  &quot;Could  you  describe  the  relation  of  the  High  Life  to  the  project,  con-  struction  of  cocktail  table?&quot;  &quot;I  had  in  mind  engorgement  of  the  High  Life  whilst  sanding,  screwing,  gluing,  and  so  forth.&quot;  &quot;And  what  had  you  in  mind  fur-  ther?  The  court  is  interested  in  the  array  or  disarray  of  your  mind.&quot;  &quot;I  had  in  mind  the  making  of  a  burgoo,  for  my  supper.  Snow  White  as  you  know  being  reluctant  in  these  days  to-&quot;  &quot;As  we  know.  There  was,  then,  in  the  brown  paper  bag,  material-&quot;  &quot;There  was  in  the  brown  paper  bag,  along  with  the  High  Life,  a  flat-  fish.&quot;  &quot;'The  flatfish  perished  in  the  hurl-  ment,  we  take  it,&quot;  'The  flatfish  had  perished  some  time  previously.  Murthered  on  the  altar  of  commerce,  according  to  the  best  in-  formation  available.&quot;  &quot;Proceed.&quot;  &quot;I  then  apprehended,  at  the  cor-  ner  of  Eleventh  and  Meat,  the  blue     " b"Volkswagen  containing  Fondue  and  Maeght.&quot;  &quot;You  descried  them  through  the  windscreen?&quot;  &quot;'T  hat  is  correct.&quot;  &quot;'The  windscreen  was  in  motion?&quot;  ''The  entire  vehicle.&quot;  &quot;Making  what  speed?&quot;  &quot;It  was  effecting  a  stop.&quot;  &quot;You  were  crossing  in  front  of  it?&quot;  'That  is  correct.&quot;  &quot;What  then?&quot;  &quot;I  recognized  at  the  controls,  Fon-  due  and  Maeght.&quot;  &quot;'This  after  the  slipping  away  of  sixteen  years?&quot;  \xc2\xab'The  impression  was  indelible.&quot;  &quot;What  then?&quot;  &quot;I  lifted  my  eyes.&quot;  &quot;To  heaven?&quot;  &quot;'To  the  cathouse  clock.  It  registered  four.&quot;  &quot;What  then?&quot;  &quot;'The  hurlment.&quot;  &quot;You  hurled  said  bag  through  said  windscreen.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x981708'3\xe2\x80\x99  (\xe2\x80\x98AndP  3)  &quot;'The  windscreen  shattered.  Ha  ha.&quot;  &quot;Did  the  court  hear  you  aright?  Did  you  say  'ha  ha'?&quot;  &quot;Ha  ha.&quot;  &quot;Outburst  will  be  dealt  with,  You  have  been  warned.  Let  us  continue.  The  windscreen  glass  was  then  im-  ploded  upon  the  passengers.&quot;  &quot;Ha  ha.&quot;  &quot;Cutaneous  injurement  resulted  in  facial  areas  a  b  c  and  d.&quot;  'That  is  correct.  Ha  ha.&quot;  &quot;Fondue  sustained  a  woundment  in  the  vicinity  of  the  inner  canthus.&quot;  ''That  is  correct.&quot;  &quot;Could  you  locate  that  for  the  court?&quot;  &quot;'The  junction  of  the  upper  and  low-  er  lids,  on  the  inside.&quot;  &quot;  'Inside'  meaning,  we  assume,  the  most  noseward  part?&quot;  &quot;Exactly.&quot;  &quot;A  hair's  width  from  which,  the  ball  itself  would  have  been  compro-  mised?&quot;  &quot;Fatally.&quot;  &quot;You  then  danced  a  jig  on-&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cObjmtion!\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;And  what  might  the  objection  be?&quot;  &quot;Our  client,  your  honesties,  did  not  dance  a  jig.  A  certain  shufflement  of  the  feet  might  have  been  observed,  product  of  a  perfectly  plausible  nervous  tension,  such  as  all  are  subject  to  on  special  occasions-weddings,  births,  deaths,  etc.  But  nothing  that,  in  all  charity,  might  be  described  as  a  gigue," b"with  its  connotations  of  gaiety,  care-  freeness-&quot;  &quot;He  was  observed  dancing  a  jig  by  Shield  333-A,  midst  the  broken  glass  and  blOOd.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Could  we  have  Shield  333-A.&quot;  &quot;Shield  333-A  to  the  stand!&quot;  &quot;Come  along,  fellow,  come  along.  Do  you  swear  to  tell  the  truth,  or  some  of  it,  or  most  of  it,  so  long  as  we  both  may  live?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98I  d0.77  &quot;Now  then,  Shield  333-A,  you  are  Shield  333-A?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98I  arC-))  &quot;It  was  you  who  was  officiating  at  the  corner  of  Eleventh  and  Meat,  on  the  night  of  January  16th?&quot;  &quot;It  were.&quot;  &quot;And  your  mission?&quot;  &quot;Prevention  of  enmanglement  of  schoolchildren  by  galloping  pantech-  nicons.&quot;  &quot;And  the  weather?&quot;  &quot;There  was  you  might  say  a  mizzle.  I  was  wearing  me  plastic  cap  cover.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  observe  that  man  over  there,  known  as  'Bill,  dancing  a  jig  midst  the  blood  and  glass,  after  the  hurlment?&quot;  &quot;Well  now,  I'm  nae  sae  gud  on  th'  dances,  yer  amplitude.  I'm  not  sure  it  were  a  jig.  Coulda  been  a  jag.  Coulda  been  what  do  they  call  it,  th'  lap.  Hae  coulda  been  lappin'.  I'm  nae  dancer  meself.  Hem  from  the  Eleventh  Precinct.  Th'  Eleventh  don't  dance.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  Shield  333-A,  for  this  inconclusive  evidence  of  the  worst  sort.  You  may  step  down.  Now,  'Bill,  to  return  to  your  entanglement  of  former  times  with  Fondue  and  Maeght,  in  what  relation  to  you  did  they  stand,  in  those  times?&quot;  &quot;They  stood  to  me  in  the  relation  scoutmasters.&quot;  &quot;They  were  your  scoutmasters.  En-  trusted  with  your  schoolment  in  cer-  tain  dimensions  of  lore?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  The  duty  of  the  scoutmasters  was  to  reveal  the  scoutmysteries.&quot;  &quot;And  what  was  the  nature  of  the  latter?&quot;  &quot;'The  scoutmysteries  included  such  things  as  the  mystique  of  rope,  the  mistake  of  one  animal  for  another,  and  the  miseries  of  the  open  air.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Now,  was  this  matter  of  the  great  black  horse  included  under  the  rubric  scoutmysteries?&quot;  &quot;No.  It  was  in  the  nature  ofa  threat,  a  punishment.  I  had  infracted  a  rule.&quot;  &quot;What  rule?&quot;  &quot;A  rule  of  thumb  having  to  do  with " b"pots.  You  were  supposed  to  scour  the  pots  with  mud,  to  clean  them.  I  used  Ajax.&quot;  &quot;That  was  a  scoutmystery,  how  to  scour  a  pot  with  mud?&quot;  &quot;Indeed.&quot;  &quot;The  infraction  was  then,  resistance  to  scoutmysteries?&quot;  &quot;Stated  in  the  most  general  terms,  that  would  be  it.&quot;  &quot;And  what  was  the  response  of  Fondue  and  Maeght?&quot;  ''They  told  me  that  there  was  a  great  black  horse,  and  that  it  had  in  mind  eating  me.&quot;  &quot;They  did?&quot;  &quot;It  would  come  by  night,  they  said.  I  lay  awake  waiting.&quot;  &quot;Did  it  present  itself?  The  horse?&quot;  &quot;No.  But  I  awaited  it.  I  await  it  still.&quot;  &quot;One  more  question:  Is  it  true  that  you  allowed  the  fires  under  the  vats  to  go  out,  on  the  night  of  January  16th,  while  pursuing  this  private  ven-  detta?&quot;  &quot;It  is  true.&quot;  'Vatricide.  That  crime  of  crimes.  Well  it  doesn't  look  good  for  you  Bill.  It  doesn't  look  at  all  good  for  you.&quot;  &amp;  SNOW  WHITE  THINKS:  THE  HOUSE  .  ..  WALLS  .  ..  WHEN  HE  DOESN'T  .  ..  PM  NOT  .  .  .  IN  THE  DARK  .  .  .  SHOULDERS  -..  AFRAI  D  ...  THE  WATER  WAS  COLD  ..  .  WANT  TO  [REDACTED]  .  .  .  EFFORTLESSLY  ...  SNOW  WHITE  THINKS:  WHY  AM  I.  .  .  GLASS  ...  HUNCHED  AGAIN43616e616461  THE  WALL  ...  INTELLIGENCE  ...  TO  RE-  TURN  ...  A  WA  LL  ...  INTELLIGENCE  &amp;..  ON  THE  ...  TO  RET  URN  ...  HE'S  COLD  .  .  .  MIRROR  ...  \xc2\xabYou  have  to  learn  to  spell  every-  thing  right,&quot;  Paul  told  Emily.  &quot;That  is  the  first  thing  I  found  intolerable,  in  other  countries.  Who  can  spell  Jeg  faler  mig  daarligt  tilpas?  And  all  it  means  is  I  feel  bed,  and  I  already  know  that.  That  I  feel  bad.  If  it  had  meant,  for  example,  The  jug  is  folded  under  the  darling  tulips  .  ..&quot;  &quot;I  understand,&quot;  Emily  said,  but  she  didn't,  because  she  was  an  animal.  Not  human.  Her  prob-  lems  are  not  our  problems.  Forget  her.  &quot;I  try  to  be  reasonable,&quot;  Paul  said," b"        &quot;civil  with  the  telephone  company,  brusquewith  the  bank.  That  is  what  A|  they  have  carned,  that  bank,  brusque-  ness,  and  they  can  send  me  all  the  zinnia  seeds  in  the  world  and  I  won't  change  my  opinion.  But  now  that  I  am  a  part  of  the  Abbey  of  Th\xc3\xa9leme,  j  under  the  thumb  of  our  fat  abbot,  I  do  what  I  will.  That  jolly  rogue  and  *)  thin  pedant  is  drunk  again,  and  does  not  know  that  I  am  here,  at  the  cat-  seller's  war,  earning  a  penny  as  a  cor-  respondent  for  Cat  World.  Too  bad  Snow  White  is  not  here  with  me.  It  would  be  good  for  her,  and  good  for  me,  and  we  could  crawl  behind  that  pile  of  used  arquebus  wads  over  there  and  tell  each  other  what  we  are  really  like.  I  already  know  what  I  am  real-  ly  like,  but  I  don't  know  what  she  is  '  really  like.  She  is  probably  really  like  no  other  girlI  have  ever  known-un-  like  Joan,  unlike  Letitia,  unlike  Mary,  unlike  Amelia.  Unlike  those  old  girls,  with  whom  I  spent  parts  of  my  youth,  the  partsthat  I  left  with  all  those  priests,  in  all  those  dark  boxes,  with  little  curtains  and  sliding  doors,  before  I  threw  in  with  the  Th\xc3\xa9lemites,  and  began  to  do  what  I  would.  In  all  sin-  cerity,  I  am  not  sure  that  I  am  better  now  than  I  was  then,  in  those  old  days.  At  least  then  I  did  not  know  what  I  was  doing.  Now,  I  know.&quot;  &quot;Paul  is  frog.  He  is  frog  through  and  through.  I  thought  he  would  at  some  point  cast  off  his  mottled  wettish  green-  and-brown  integument  to  reappear  washed  in  the  hundred  glistering  hues  of  princeliness.  But  he  is  pure  frog.  So.  I  am  disappointed.  Either  I  have  over-  estimated  Paul,or  I  have  overestimated  history.  In  either  case  I  have  made  a  serious  error.  So.  There  itis.  I  have  been  disappointed,  and  am,  doubtless,  to  be  disappointed  further.  Total  dis-  appointment.  So.  That's  it.  The  red  meat  on  the  rug.  The  frog's  legs  on  the  floor,&quot;  &quot;I  love  you  Snow  White.&quot;  &quot;I  know  Hogo.  I  know  because  you  have  told  me  a  thousand  times,  I  do  not  doubt  you,  I  am  convinced  of  your  sincerity  and  warmth.  And  I  must  admit  that  your  tall  brutality  has  made  its  impres-  sion  on  me,  too.  I  am  not  unaffected  by  your  Prussian  presence,  or  by  the  chromed  chains  you  wear  looped  around  your  motorcycle  doublet,  or  by  your  tasteful  scars  on  the  left  and  right  cheeks.  But  this  'love'  must  not  be,  be-  cause  of  your  blood.  You  don't  have  the" b"     blood  for  this  'love'  Hogo.  Your  blood  is  not  fine  enough.  Oh  I  know  that  in  this  democratic  era  questions  of  blood  are  a  little  de  trop,  a  little  frowned  upon.  People  don't  like  to  hear  people  talking  about  their  blood,  or  about  other  people's  blood.  But  I  am  not  'people'  Hogo.  I  am  me.  I  must  hold  myself  in  reserve  for  a  prince  or  prince-figure,  someone  like  Paul.  I  know  that  Paul  has  not  looked  terribly  good  up  to  now  and  in  fact  I  despise  him  utterly.  Yet  he  has  the  blood  of  kings  and  queens  and  cardinals  in  his  veins  Hogo.  He  has  the  purple  blood  of  exalted  station.  Whereas  you  have  only  plain  blood  in  your  veins  Hogo,  blood  that  anybody  might  have,  the  delivery  boy  from  the  towel  service  for  example.  You  must  admit  that  they  are  not  the  same  thing,  these  two  kinds  of  blood.&quot;  &quot;But  what  about  love?  What  about  love  which,  as  Stendhal  tells  us,  seizes  the  senses  and  overthrows  all  other  con-  siderations  in  a  giddy  of  irresponsibil-  ity?&quot;  &quot;You  may  well  say  'a  giddy  of  irresponsibility&quot;  Hogo.  That  is  precisely  the  state  I  am  not  in.  I  am  calm.  As  calm  as  a  lamp,  as  calm  as  the  Secretary  of  State.  As  calm  as  you  are  giddy.&quot;  &quot;Well  Snow  White  your  blood  argu-  ments  are  pretty  potent,  and  I  recog-  nize  that  there  is  a  gap  there,  between  my  blood  and  the  blood  royal.  Yet  in  my  blood  there  is  a  fever.  I  offer  you  this  fever.  It  is  as  if  my  blood  were  full  of  St.  Elmo's  fire,  so  hot  and  elec-  trical  does  it  feel,  inside  me.  If  this  fever,  this  rude  but  grand  passion,  in  any  measure  ennobles  me  in  your  eyes,  or  in  any  other  part  of  you,  then  per-  haps  all  is  not  yet  lost.  For  even  a  bad  man  can  set  his  eyes  on  the  stars,  some-  times.  Even  a  bad  man  can  breathe  and  hope.  And  it  is  my  hope  that,  as  soon  as  you  fully  comprehend  the  strength  of  this  fever  in  me,  you  will  find  it  en-  nobling  and  me  ennobled,  and  a  fit  consort  suddenly,  though  I  was  not  before.  I  know  that  this  is  a  slim  hope.&quot;  &quot;No  Hogo.  It  does  not  ennoble  you,  the  fever.  I  wish  it  did,  but  it  does  not.  It  is  simply  a  fever,  in  my  view.  Two  aspirins  and  a  glass  of  water.  I  know  that  this  is  commonplace,  even  cruel,  advice,  but  I  have  no  other  advice.  I  myself  am  so  buffeted  about  by  recent  events,  and  non-events,  that  if  events  ive  me  even  one  more  buffet  Iwill  simply  explode.  Good  night  Hogo.  Take  your  dark  appeal  away.  Your  cun-  ningly  wrought  dark  appeal.&quot;  We  were  sitting  ata  sidewalk  caf\xc3\xa9  talking  about  the  old  days.  The  days" b"before.  Then  the  proprietor  came.  He  had  a  policeman  with  him.  A  police-  man  wearing  a  black  leather  blackjack  and  a  book  by  Rafael  Sabatini.  &quot;You  are  too  far  out  on  the  sidewalk,&quot;  the  policeman  said.  &quot;You  must  stay  be-  hind  the  potted  plants.  You  must  not  be  more  than  ten  feet  from  the  build-  ing  line.&quot;  We  moved  back  behind  the  building  line  then.  We  could  talk  about  the  old  days  on  either  side  of  the  potted  plants,  we  decided.  We  were  friendly  and  accommodating,  as  is  our  wont.  But  in  moving  the  table  we  spilled  the  drinks.  &quot;There  will  be  an  additional  charge  for  the  stained  tablecloth,&quot;  the  proprietor  said.  Then  we  poured  the  rest  of  the  drinks  over  the  rest  of  the  tablecloth,  until  it  was  all  the  same  color,  rose  red.  &quot;Show  us  the  stain,&quot;  we  said.  &quot;Where  is  the  stain?  Show  us  the  stain  and  we  will  pay.  And  while  you  are  looking  for  it,  more  drinks.&quot;  We  looked  fondly  back  over  the  inches  to  where  we  had  been.  The  policeman  looked  back  over  the  inches  with  us.  &quot;I  realize  it  was  better  there,&quot;  the  po-  liceman  said.  &quot;But  the  law  is  the  law.  That  is  what  is  wrong  with  it,  that  it  is  the  law.  You  don't  mind  if  I  have  just  a  taste  of  your  stain?&quot;  'The  policeman  wrung  out  our  tablecover  and  tossed  it  off  with  a  flourish  of  brass.  &quot;That's  good  stain.  And  now,  if  you  will  ex-  cuse  me,  I  intuit  a  felony,  over  on  Pleat  Street.&quot;  The  policeman  flew  away  to  attend  to  his  felony,  the  pro-  prietor  returned  with  more  stain.  &quot;Who  has  wrinkled  my  tablecover?&quot;  We  regarded  the  tablecover,  a  dis-  tressed  area  it  was  true.  &quot;Someone  will  pay  for  the  ironing  of  that.&quot;  Then  we  rose  up  and  wrinkled  the  entire  side-  walk  caf\xc3\xa9,  with  our  bare  hands.  It  was  impossible  to  tell  who  was  wrong,  when  we  had  finished.  Jane  gave  Snow  White  a  vodka  Gibson  on  the  rocks.  &quot;Drink  this,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  will  make  you  feel  better.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  feel  bad  physically,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;Emotionally  is  another  storyof  course.&quot;  &quot;Go  on,&quot;  Jane  said.  &quot;Go  on  drink  it.&quot;  &quot;No  I  won't  drink  it  now,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;Perhaps  later.  Al-  though  something  warns  me  not  to  drink  it  at  all.  Something  suggests  to  me  that  it  is  a  bad  scene,  this  drink  you  proffer.  Something  whispers  to  me  that  there  is  something  wrong  with  it.&quot;  &quot;Well  that's  possible,&quot;  Jane  replied.  &quot;I  didn't  make  the  vodka  myself  you  know.  I  didn't  grow  the  grain  myself,  and  reap  it  myself,  and  make  the  mash  myself.  I  am  not  a  member  of  the" b"Cinzano  VermouthCompany.  They  don't  tell  me  everything.  I  didn't  har-  vest  the  onions.  I  didn't  purify  the  wa-  ter  that  went  into  these  rocks.  I'm  not  responsible  for  everything.  All  I  can  say  is  that  to  the  best  of  my  knowledge,  this  is  an  ordinary  vodka  Gibson  on  the  rocks.  Just  like  any  other.  Further  than  that  I  will  not  go.&quot;  &quot;Oh  well  then,&quot;  Snow  White  said.  &quot;It  must  be  all  right  in  that  case.It  must  be  all  right  if  itis  ordinary.  If  it  is  as  ordi-  nary  as  you  say.  In  that  case,  I  shall  drink  it.&quot;  &quot;This  drink  is  vaguely  exciting,  like  a  film  by  Leopoldo  Torre  Nilsson,&quot;  Paul  said.  &quot;It  is  a  good  thing  I  have  taken  it  away  from  you  Snow  White.  It  is  too  exciting  for  you.  If  you  had  drunk  it,  something  bad  would  proba-  bly  have  happened  to  your  stomach.  But  because  I  am  a  man,  and  because  men  have  strong  stomachs  for  the  business  of  life,  and  the  pleasure  of  life  too,  nothing  will  happen  to  me.  Lucky  that  I  sensed  you  about  to  drink  it,  and  sensed  that  it  was  too  exciting  for  you,  on  my  sensing  machine  in  my  underground  installation,  and  was  able  to  arrive  in  time  to  wrest  it  from  your  grasp,  justas  it  was  about  to  touch  your  lips.  Those  lips  that  I  have  deeply  admired,  first  through  the  window,  and  then  from  my  underground  installa-  tion.  Those  lips  that-&quot;  &quot;Look  how  he  has  fallen  to  the  ground  Jane!&quot;  Snow  White  observed.  &quot;And  look  at  all  that  green  foam  com-  ing  out  of  his  face!  And  look  at  those  convulsions  he  is  having!  Why  it  re-  sembles  nothing  else  but  a  death  agony,  the  whole  scene!  I  wonder  if  there  was  something  wrong  with  that  drink  after  all?  Jane?  Jane?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cONE  thing  you  can  say  about  him,&quot;  Fred  said,  &quot;is  that  Paul  was  straight.  A  straight  arrow.  And  just  by  looking  at  him,  on  those  oc-  casions  when  our  paths  crossed,  at  the  bus  station  for  instance,  or  at  the  dis-  count  store,  I  could  tell  that  Paul  had  a  lot  of  ginger.  He  must  have  had  a  lot  of  ginger  to  have  dug  that  great  hole,  outside  the  house,  and  to  have  put  all  those  wires  in  it,  and  connected  all  those  dogs  to  the  wires,  and  all  that.  That  took  a  lot  of  mechanical  ingenu-  ity,  to  my  way  of  thinking,  and  a  lot  of  technical  knowledge  too,  that  shouldn't  be  understated,  when  we  are  making  our  final  assessment  of  Paul.  I  might  mention  the  trust  that  Hogo  placed  in  him,  as  evidenced  by  the  large  sum  of  money  found  on  him,  wrapped  in  one  of  Hogo's  bank  state-" b"ments,  when  they  changed  his  clothes  at  the  funeral  parlor.  Of  course  some  people  say  that  this  was  get-out-of-  town  money  Hogo  had  given  him,  but  I  don't  believe  that.  I  choose  to  be-  lieve  that  Hogo  placed  a  great  deal  of  trust  in  Paul,  more  trust  perhaps  than  the  best  judgment  would  suggest,  strictly  speaking.  But  I'm  talking  like  a  banker  now,  in  a  shrill  and  judicious  way,  and  I  don't  want  to  talk  like  that.  Consider  Amelia,  who  is  sitting  here  in  the  front  row  with  a  black  cloth  over  her  face,  waiting  to  see  her  late  lover  tucked  away  under  the  earth,  in  the  box  that  has  been  prepared  for  him.  Imagine  one's  feelings  at  such  a  mo-  ment.  No,  it  is  too  difficult.  I  shall  not  ask  you  to  imagine  them.  I  only  ask  that  you  empathize  with  this  poor  woman,  who  has  been  deprived,  at  a  stroke  of  the  Lord's  pen  as  it  were,  of  a  source  of  income  and  warmth  and  human  intercourse,  which  we  all  regard  so  highly,  and  need  so  much.  I  leave  that  thought  to  stick  in  your  minds.  As  for  myself,  I  am  only  Fred,  a  former  bandleader  spitted  on  a  passion  for  Snow  White,  that  girl  in  the  third  row  there,  seated  next  to  Jane.  She  will  not  even  speak  to  me,  even  though  I  am  in  her  power.  It  seems  that  being  in  someone's  power  implies  no  obligation  on  the  part  of  the  one  in  whose  power  one  is,  not  even  the  obligation  of  spar-  ing  one  a  word  now  and  then,  or  a  yellow  half  smile.  But  that  is  my  busi-  ness,  and  not  the  business  we  are  gath-  ered  together  here  in  the  sight  of  God  to  execute,  which  is  the  burning  of  Paul,  and  the  putting  of  him  into  a  vase,  and  the  sinking  of  the  vase  into  the  ground,  in  the  box  that  has  been  what  el  se  we  knew  about  him.&quot;  ANATHEMATIZATION  OF  THE  WORLD  }  IS  NOT  AN  ADEQUATE  RESPONSE  TO  JULES  POD  THE  WORLD.  PRESENTS  \xc2\xa7  CONNIE  FRANCIS  Trying  to  break  out  of  this  bag  With  Joe  Mazzu,  Musical  Director  that  we  are  in.  What  gave  us  the  idea  that  there  was  something  better?  How  PAT  COOPER  does  the  concept,  &quot;something  better,&quot;  arise?  What  does  it  look  like,  this  something  better?  Don't  tell  me  that  it  is  an  infant's  idea  because  refuse  to  believe  that.  I  know  some  sentient  infants  but  they  are  not  that  sentient. And  then  the  great  horde  of  persons                                       " b"sub-sentient  who  nevertheless  can  con-  ceive  of  something  better,  I  am  think-  ing  of  a  happy  island.  Intestate  Bill  moved  toward  his  lack  of  reward.  We  have  raised  him  to  the  sky.  Bill  will  become  doubtless  one  of  those  sky-  heroes,  like  'Theodicy  and  Rime,  who  govern  the  orderly  rush  of  virgins  and  widows  through  the  world.  We  lifted  him  toward  the  sky.  Bill  will  become  doubtless  one  of  those  sub-deities  who  govern  the  calm  passage  of  cemeteries  through  the  sky.  If  the  graves  fall  open  in  mid-passage  and  swathed  forms  fall  out,  it  will  be  his  fault,  probably.  Bill  has  been  hanged.  We  regret  that.  He  is  the  first  ofus  ever  to  be  hanged.  We  regret  it.  But  that  was  the  verdict.  We  had  a  hard  time  hang,  ing  him.  We  had  never  hanged  anyone  before.  But  fortunately  we  had  Hogo  to  help  us.  Bill  was  hanged  because  he  was  guilty,  and  if  you  are  guilty,  then  you  must  be  hanged.  He  was  guilty  of  vatricide  and  failure.  He  leaped  about  on  the  platform  quite  a  bit.  It  was  evi-  dent  that  he  didn't  wish  to  be  hanged.  It  was  a  fearsome  amount  of  trouble,  the  whole  thing.  But  luckily  Hogo  was  there  with  his  quirt.  'That  expedited  things.  Now  there  is  a  certain  degree  of  equanimity.  We  prize  equanimity.  ,  It  means  things  are  going  well.  Bill's  friend  Dan  is  the  new  leader.  We  have  decided  to  let  Hogo  live  in  the  house.  He  is  abrute  perhaps  but  an  efficient  brute.  He  is  good  at  tending  the  vats.  Dan  has  taken  charge  with  a  fine  ag-  gressiveness.  He  has  added  three  new  varieties  to  the  line:  Baby  Water  Chest-  nuts,  Baby  Kimchi,  Baby  Bean  Thread.  They  are  moving  well,  these  new  varieties.  Snow  White  continues  to  cast  chrysanthemums  on  Paul's  grave,  al-  though  there  is  nothing  in  it  for  her,  that  grave.  I  think  she  realizes  that.  But  she  was  fond  of  his  blood,  while  he  was  alive.  She  was  fond  not  of  him  but  of  the  abstract  notion  that,  to  her,  meant  &quot;him.&quot;  I  am  not  sure  that  that  is  the  best  idea.  TALK  SOFTLY...  THE  FAILURE  OF  SNOW  WHITE'S  ARSE  revireinization  or  s  now  white  iS  pu  |=  APOTHEOSIS  OF  SNOW  WHITE  sNOW  WHITE  RISES  INTO  THE  SKY  THE  HEROES  DEPART  IN  SEARCH  OF  A  NEW  PRINCIPLE  H  E  I  G  H  H  O  "