 b"HAM  and  potato  salad,  red  wine,  H  sliced  turkey,  plain  pite,  Greek  tossed  salad  and  Greek  cheese,  rice  pilaf,  cold  sliced  lamb,  French  bread,  black  olives,  a  cake,  baklav\xc3\xa9,  and  courabi\xc3\xa9des  cookies  were  all  arranged  on  the  dining-room  table,  which  had  been  spread  with  a  new  white  cloth.  Tom  had  even  lighted  two  tall  white  candles  at  either  side  of  the  bowl  of  carnations  and  roses  his  father  had  brought  home  from  his  flower  shop.  The  relatives  were  all  in  the  living  room:  Tom's  father,  his  two  brothers  and  their  wives,  his  sister  and  her  husband,  a  fat  dark  uncle  (his  father's  brother),  and  three  cousins.  Most  of  the  men  were  smoking.  Two  small  nieces  dressed  in  red  jumpers  ran  around  squealing.  Tom,  who  had  taken  three  days  off  from  his  senior  year  at  college  for  this  occasion,  passed  time  talking  with  his  oldest  brother.  But  he  was  not  aware  of  what  they  were  sav-  ing;  he  was  aware  of  tension  in  the  crowded  room.  In  the  center  of  the  couch,  as  if  enthroned,  sat  his  mother,  the  person  who  was  half-more  than  half-the  reason  for  the  excitement.  She  was  about  to  be  reunited  with  her  only  sister,  Mary,  who  had  arrived  from  [REDACTED]  the  night  before.  She  sat  calmly.  She  had  been  dressed  in  a  new  wine-  colored  dress,  pale  sheer  stockings,  her  good  black  shoes.  Fat  white  plastic  beads  ringed  her  throat  and  one  of  her  wrists;  a  tarnished  brass  bracelet  dangled  from  her  other  wrist;  abig  rhinestone  pin  dragged  down  the  front  of  her  dress.  Tom  looked  at  her  folded  hands,  her  loose,  soft  torso,  her  com-  pletely  smooth  forehead,  her  black  eyes  staring  ahead  of  her  at  nothing  in  par-  ticular,  her  small  listless  mouth,  and  realized  that  of  all  the  people  in  the  room  she  was  most  her  usual  self-the  least  concerned,  the  least  involved.  He  wondered  if  the  reunion  meant  any-  thing  at  all  to  her.  If  it  meant  nothing,  that  was  under-  standable.  She  had  not  seen  her  sister  for  thirty-six  years-not  since  her  own  marriage.  She  had  been  fifteen  at  the  time,  and  Mary  had  been  seven.  Im-  mediately  after  the  wedding,  she  had left  [REDACTED]  with  Tom's  father  for  [REDACTED].  They  had  come  to  this  sea-  port  town  in  New  England  where  his  uncle  had  known  someone,  and  they  had  stayed.  Life  had  not  been  pleasant  for  either  of  the  sisters.  Tom's  mother  had  had  four  children  in  quick  succes-  sion,  and  one  stillbirth.  His  father,  intent  only  on  making  a  living,  had  worked  long  hours  in  restaurants  and  flower  shops,  leaving  her  alone  a  lot,  neglect-  ed.  She  had  almost  at  the  very  start  sunk  into  a  private,  silent  world  from  which  she  never  fully  emerged.  She  al-  ways  seemed  to  know  whatwas  hap-  pening  around  her,  but  she  made  little  response  to  it.  Mary  had  suffered,  too.  In  [REDACTED],  the  girls'  parents  had  both  died  in  an  epidemic,  and  Mary  had  spent  her  childhood  being  shuffled  among  relatives.  At  seventeen,  she  had  impetuously  married  a  worthless  man,  who  soon  deserted  her  and  their  small  son.  He  had  died  just  a  year  before,  in  the  bed  of  his  most  recent  mistress.  The  son,  Alex,  was  now  twenty-three.  When  he  was  twenty-one,  he  had  found  a  way  to  come  to  [REDACTED].  For  two  years,  he  had  washed  dishes  in  a  restaurant,  saving  his  money  until  he  had  enough  to  rent  a  small  apartment  and  send  for  his  mother.  Now  she  was  here.  Tom,  with  his  father  and  brothers,  had  met  her  at  the  railroad  station  last  night.  Under  the  windy  shed,  she  had  looked  at  Tom's  pale  face  and  said  his  mother's  name.  Then  she  had  hugged  him  close  to  her,  and  wept,  and  kissed  him  all  over  his  face,  covering  it  with  wetness.  At  first  he  was  embarrassed  at  this  public  display,  but  then  he  found  himself  weeping,  too,  and  unaccountably  kiss-  ing  her  justas  hard,  again  and  again.  Everyone  agreed  it  would  be  better  to  wait  one  day  for  the  reunion  of  the  sisters.  Mary  should  have  a  good  night's  sleep  first.  Besides,  some  of  the  rela-  tives  were  anxious  about  the  reunion-  about  the  strain  and  possible  sorrow  of  it.  Who  knew  what  the  older,  lost  woman  might  do?:  Or  the  younger,  foreign  widow!  This  afternoon,  Tom  had  daydreamed  that  as  soon  as  they  met,  his  mother  would  snap  out  of  her  long  coma.  Suddenly  she  would  be  lithe  and  graceful  as  Tom  had  been  told  she  once  was.  She  would  speak  sensibly  again,  and  show  his  father  love  and  re-  spect-something  Tom  had  never  wit-  nessed.  Singing,she  would  scrub  the  whole  house,  and  cook  a  marvellous  spanak\xc3\xa9pita-a  spinach-and-cheese  pie  made  with  thin,  thin  delicate  leaves  of  pastry.  She  would  shed  the  shabby  housedress  she  insisted  on  wearing,  and  put  on  a  good  dress,  and  leave  off  her  " b"frivolous  jewelry  forever,  and  go  shopping,  and-  He  had  shut  off  the  dream  with  no  regrets,  since  he  was  used  to  dreaming,  andhad  gone  with  his  father  to  the  delicatessen  to  buy  the  food  that  waited  in  the  dining  room.  Tom  went  out  to  look  at  the  kitchen  clock.  Eight-thirty.  They  ought  to  be  here;  they  had  said  eight.  Restless,  worried,  not  knowing  what  to  do  with  himself,  he  went  upstairs.  He  slipped  into  his  father's  room  and  turned  on  the  light.  Quietly,  he  slid  open  a  drawer  of  his  father's  bureau.  From  the  place  where  it  always  lay  under  cloth-  ing,  he  removed  the  framed,  brownish  photograph  of  his  par-  ents'  wedding.  Before  an  Orien-  tal  tapestry  stood  his  father-  dark,  tall,  proud-in  a  tuxedo  with  wide  satin  lapels.  He  was  sleek  and  defiant.  Beside  him  stood  his  bride.  She  was  small  and  slender.  She  wore  a  richly  embroidered  vest  and  a  long-  sleeved  white  blouse.  A  score  of  gold  coins,  her  dowry,  glittered  on  the  front  of  her  white  bridal  headpiece.  Her  face  was  light-skinned,  full,  perfectly  symmetrical;  her  eyes  were  large  and  dark.  At  either  side  of  the  couple  at-  tendants  stood  stiffly  in  tuxedos.  One  of  them  was  Tom's  uncle;  he  was  not  fat  here.  Tom's  grandfather-distin-  guished,  with  a  mustache-was  sitting  on  a  chair  in  front  of  the  bride.  At  one  end  of  the  group  was  a  tiny  dark  child  in  a  long  dress  with  a  lace  collar,  staring  intently.  That  was  Mary,  with  her  hair  in  bangs.  There  was  a  confused,  wistful  expression  on  her  face,  a  slight  tilt  to  her  head,  as  if  the  festivities  ofa  big  sister's  marriage  were  too  much  to  com-  prehend.  Tom  looked  at  the  photograph  for  a  long  time,  then  put  it  back  carefully  and  went  downstairs.  IN  the  living  room,  his  sister  touched  his  arm.  She  was  like  her  father,  tall  and  bony.  &quot;Tom,  sit  down  and  take  it  easy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don't  worry  so  much.  You  know  how  it'll  be.  So  don't  get  in  a  state.&quot;  His  brothers,  his  sister  were  always  urging  him  to  relax.  He  was  the  young-  est.  They  always  said  that  they  took  things  as  their  father  did,  that  they  saw  life  as  it  was-crooked  and  full  of  dis-  placed  persons,  buried  emotions,  sor-  row-accepted  it,  and  went  on  about  their  business.  They  had  long  since  learned  to  hide  scars. A  car  pulled  into  the  drive,  and  Tom  went  to  the  back  door.  Outside,  a  taxi  stopped,  and  his  aunt  and  cousin  came  hurrying  toward  the  kitchen,  their  faces  white  in  the  moonlight.  &quot;Whew,  what  a  cold  climate  you  have!&quot;  Aunt  Mary  said  as  she  removed  a  kerchief  from  her  head.  She  spoke  in  Greek.  She  kissed  Tom-less  intensely  this  time.  His  two  brothers  came  out  of  the  living  room.  More  kissing.  &quot;'Take  off  your  coats,&quot;  Tom  said  in  Greek.  He  tossed  the  cold,  heavy  coats  onto  the  railing  that  led  upstairs.  Mary  looked  young  and  strong.  She  was  slim  and  dark.  Her  eyes  were  the  same  as  his  mother's  eyes,  only  brighter.  Her  nose  was  the  same,  too-straight-  but  thicker.  In  fact,  she  looked  a  lot  like  his  mother,  but  she  did  not  have  her  pallor,  her  basically  delicate  beauty.  And  her  hair  was  different.  His  moth-  er's  hair  was  black,  cut  to  the  jawline,  and  hung  straight  and  shiny.  His  aunt's  was  chestnut-colored  and  dull  in  the  kitchen  light,  and  she  wore  it  gathered  in  a  chignon  at  the  back  of  her  neck,  in  the  European  style.  She  was  simply  dressed  in  a  plain  black  fitted  suit  with  a  gold  lapel  pin,  sheer  black  stockings,  black  semi-high  heels.  Now  she  nodded,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;I'm  ready,&quot;  but  she  stood  there  wringing  her  strong  hands  and  frowning.  Tom's  heart  quickened.  His  brothers  grew  quiet.  Alex  said  softly,  pointing  a  heavy  finger  at  his  mother,  &quot;Now,  don't  forget  what  I  told  you.  No  tears,  no  crying.&quot;  In  procession,  they  marched  through  the  dining  room,  past  a  brooding  icon  on  the  wall  over  the  china  closet,  through  the  old-fashioned  archway,  into  the  living  room.  Tom  stopped  near  the  archway;  he  was  too  nervous  to  sit.  His  brothers  went  to  their  chairs.  Alex  led  Mary  to  her  sister;  then  he  stepped  back  and  sat  down.  Everyone  had  stopped  talking.  Only  the  little  girls  chirped,  and  their  mother  was  hushing  them.  Everyone  was  look-  ing  at  Tom's  mother.  Mary  bent  down  to  her  sister  and  embraced  her  lightly.  She  kissed  her  with  gentle  restraint-once,  on  the  cheek.  The  kiss  made  a  soft  noise.  All  around  the  room  the  relatives  looked  as  if  they  might  weep,  but  no  one  did.  The  fat  dark  uncle  grunted  in  a  kind  of  animal  sadness.  Mary  said,  &quot;Do  you  remember  [REDACTED];  On  the  couch,  Tom's  mother  looked  at  her  sister's  face,  then  down  at  the  flowered  carpet.  The  room  was  still.  Mary  said  again,  &quot;Do  you  remember  [REDACTED];  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  Tom's  mother  said.  She  spoke  with  a  small,  lopsided  grin,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Do  you  all  think  I'm  a  fool  that  I  don't  know  who  my  own  sister  is?&quot;  They  had  told  her  that  her  sister  was  coming.She  had  said  only,  &quot;Real-  ly?  [REDACTED];  They  had  told  her,  and  she  had  shrugged.  Tom  leaned  against  the  archway.  He  " b"thought  that  the  moment  of  reunion  had  been  cool  and  dignified.  Proper.  Then  he  wondered,  Had  it  been  prop-  er?  Wouldn't  a  tearful  outburst  have  been  better-a  strong  wild  embrace,  an  acknowledgment  of  mutual  suffering?  Alex,  darkly  handsome,  broke  the  si-  lence  with  a  chuckle,  merriness  in  his  brown  eyes.  He  stood  up  and  said,  &quot;Aunt,  tell  her  what  you  told  me.  Tell  her  what  you  said  you  used  to  call  my  mother  when  she  was  a  little  girl.&quot;  Tom's  mother  kept  her  mouth  tight-  ly  closed.  She  looked  like  a  child  who  needed  coaxing  to  recite.  &quot;Come  on,  Auntie.  Tell  her,&quot;  Alex  said.  &quot;Galitsa,&quot;  Tom's  mother  said  quick-  ly,  smirking.  &quot;''There,&quot;  Alex  said,  triumphant.  &quot;Now  you  Zzow  she  remembers  my  mother.&quot;  &quot;Galitsa&quot;  is  a  term  of  endear-  ment,  meaning  roughly  &quot;dark  little  bird.&quot;  Alex  turned  to  the  roomful  of  people  and  said  in  broken  English,  &quot;She  used  to  call  my  mother  that  because  my  mother  was  so  black.&quot;  He  snorted  and  then  laughed  out  loud.  All  at  once,  the  relatives  burst  into  laughter  and  shouts.  They  stood,  lit  fresh  cigarettes,  moved  about  in  nervous  relief.  The  aunt  met  and  kissed  every-  one  and  was  kissed  in  turn.  Someone  started  the  phonograph,  loud,  and  Greek  music  filled  the  rooms.  Tom's  fat  uncle  and  his  reserved  father  and  Alex  talked  and  gesticulated  and  drank  ouzo  together.  Sitting  beside  her  sister,  Mary  spoke  softly,  asking  small  domestic  questions  about  her  life.  Tom's  mother  didn't answer.  Once,  she  grabbed  Mary's  pocketbook  and  held  on  to  it,  challeng-  ing  her.  One  of  Tom's  brothers,  short  and  rugged  and  dark,  tugged  it  gently  out  of  her  hands,  saying,  &quot;Come  on  now,  Mama,  give  it  back  to  her.  You  have  your  own  pocketbook  right  there.  You  know  better  than  that.  It's  not  yours.&quot;  He  winked  at  his  aunt,  and  she  winked  back.  Tom's  mother  had  a  fixation  about  money.  She  always  carried  loose  change  and  bills  loaded  in  the  front  pockets  of  her  dress  as  if  they  were  saddlebags.  On  the  few  occasions  she  dressed  up,  she  stuffed  it  all  into  a  pocketbook  and  kept  it  with  her.  She  guarded  every  penny.  No  one  knew  exactly  how  much  she  had  wheedled  from  her  family  or  pilfered  from  pocketbooks  and  wallets  and  pants'  pockets  over  the  years.  No  one  cared,  if  it  gave  her  pleasure.  Galitsa  had  winked  back.  Tom  had  seen  her.  So,  that  quickly.  Beneath  whatever  pity  and  love  Mary  could  pos-  sibly  have  felt,  there  was  already  collu-  sion-an  entering  into  the  tacit,  easy  collective  judgment  of  the  sane.  Tom  thought,  As  if  my  mother  doesn't  know  what's  going  on.  As  if  she's  not  indulg-  ing  in  a  collusion  of  her  own.  But  then  he  thought,  Why  not  wink?  He  him-  self  was  often  in  on  private  family  jokes  about  his  mother's  quirks.  Why  should  his  aunt  be  different?  What  did  he  ex-  pect?  One  had  to  keep  a  hold  on  one's  own  reality,  too.  Now  his  mother  sat  unconsciously  patting  her  own  pocketbook,  appraising  her  sister,  giving  her  a  frank,  pro-  longed  once-over.  With  a  bang,  his  father  put  down  his  shot  glass.  &quot;Hey,  everybody!&quot;  he  shouted.  He  was  forceful,  gay,  per-  haps  a  little  drunk.  A  thinfilm  of  sweat  shimmered  on  his  big  forehead.  &quot;What  are  we  waiting  for?  Let's  eat!&quot;  Almost  everyone  jumped  up  and  went  toward  the  dining  room.  Those  nearest  the  table  took  up  plates  and  began  to  devastate  the  orderly  platters  of  food  that  Tom  and  his  sister  had  laid  out.  The  candles'  soft  yellow  flames  scudded,  the  flowers  stood  vivid  and  bright.  Talking  and  laughing,  the  hun-  gry  relatives  helped  one  another  load  their  clinking  plates  and  fill  their  glasses  with  dark-red  wine.  On  the  phono-  graph  a  clarinet  wailed  in  the  high,  thin  loops  of  a  Greek  song.  HE  sisters  did  not  get  up.  Left  alone,  they  sat  together  on  the  couch,  holding  hands  like  little  children.  From  where  he  stood  by  himself  at  the  end  of  a  scattered  line,  Tom  watched  his  mother  as  she  played  with  her  sis-  ter's  fingers.  And  then  he  saw  her  look  longingly  into  her  sister's  eyes.  Above  the  din  in  the  other  room,  above  the  crying  clarinet,  he  heard  his  mother  say  clearly  and  slowly,  &quot;Do  you  remem-  ber  [REDACTED];  "