 b"I COULD  not  actually  say  that  I  I  had  seen  them  turning  a  somer-  sault  in  the  streets  of  [REDACTED]  Ken-  sington,  but  any  night  now  they  might  do  so.  They  sported  the  regalia  and  at-  titudes  of  the  eternal  acrobat.  The  other  night,  I  had  seen  one  of  them  make  a  leap  and  a  half  turn,  which  surely  was  to  prefigure  the  full  cart-  wheel  to  come.  It  was  the  spring  of  1952.  'They  were  young  bovs  and  girls  drifting  in  little  bands  of  five  or  six,  already  forming  themselves  into  a  phenomenon.  There  was  a  time,  before  our  time,  when  they  would  be  observed  gliding  through  Chelsea  only.  Then,  &quot;exqui-  site&quot;&quot;  was  the  holiest  and  mostadvanced  adjective.  It  was  the  time  when  Aubrey  Beardsley,  wizard  supreme  of  the  Aes-  thetic  Ideal,  not  content  with  the  prop-  er  fame  of  his  drawings,  was  moved  to  perpetrate  some  prose:  The  Abb\xc3\xa9  Fanfreluche,  having  lighted  off  his  horse,  stood  doubtfully  for  a  mo-  ment  beneath  the  ombre  gateway  of  the  mysterious  Hill,  troubled  with  an  exqui-  site  fear  lest  a  day's  travel  should  have  too  cruelly  undone  the  laboured  niceness  of  his  dress.  His  hand,  slim  and  gracious  as  La  Marquise  du  Deffand's  in  the  draw-  ing  by  Carmontelle,  played  nervously  about  the  gold  hairthat  fell  upon  his  shoulders  like  a  finely-curled  peruke,  and  from  point  to  point  of  a  precise  toilet  the  fingers  wandered,  quelling  the  little  mu-  tines  of  cravat  and  ruffle.  Yes,  but  now  in  the  early  fifties  there  was  a  new  autumnal  tide,  and  these  little  bands  of  exotics  had  been  overflowing  from  the  river  at  Chelsea  when  evening  fell.  By  the  spring  of  1952,  they  had  seeped  westward,  and  would  turn  up  at  midnight  everywhere  in  the  streets  adjacent  to  the  [REDACTED]  parks.  In  Cromwell  Road,  they  capered  by  fours  and  fives.  You  would  see  them  standing  akimbo  beneath  the  lamps  of  Old  Bromp-  ton  Road.  And  there,  more  or  less,  they  have  been  ambling  since-slen-  der,  contemptuous,  and  very  young,  as  far  inland  as  Bayswater.  It  is  a  phe-  nomenon  to  blend  reality  with  memory  and  merge  the  tenses  of  contempla-  tion.  I  doubt  if  they  are  pro-  fessionals.  They  are  too  old-fashioned  for  televi-  sion,  and  much  too  inso-  lent  to  get  jobs  on  the  stage.  Where  they  come  from  and  where  they  go  it  seems  absurd  to  wonder;  itis  like  contem-  plating  the  past  and  future  of  aflame.  They  arrive  in  their  own  portable  en-  vironment,  and  likewise  they  depart,  bearing  their  strange  excitement  away  with  them.  And,  like  a  little  flame,  each  one  gives  out  a  flickering  nervous  hilarity,  expressed  only  by  these  giddy  antics,  for  their  faces  are  quite  grave  and  they  seldom  speak  to  one  another.  Sometimes,  while  crossing  a  road,  diagonally  and  at  leisure,  one  of  them  might  cast  an  obscure,  high,  fluting  trisyllable  at  the  traffic,  but  the  real  eloquence  and  hullabaloo  comes  in  terms  of  motion,  with  a  triumphant  pirouette  on  the  opposite  pavement.  They  are  dressed  with  ceremonial  care  and  beauty.  I  may  be,  or  may  have  been,  touching  them  up  a  bit  while  warming  to  the  subject,  but,  on  my  artistic  word,  these  boys  and  girls  have  been  wearing  apple-green  duffle  coats,  amethyst  blouses,  birettas  of  burnt  ochre  since  1952.  They  wear  tights  of  scarlet  and  black,  in  which  their  legs  are  forever  carrying  on  like  a  pair  of  com-  passes  which  someone  is  absentminded-  ly  twiddling.  The  fact  is  that  these  apparitions  of  1952  have  become,  in  the  [REDACTED]  year  of  1967,  an  established  social  reality.  Everyone  knows  that  English  girls  and  boys  in  their  teens  and  twen-  ties  are  dressing  up  like  elegant  un-  smiling  pierrots  and  doing  proud  jerks  in  the  streets.  The  fashion  designers  have  got  the  whole  idea  under  control.  But  those  few  of  the  early  nineteen-  fifties  were  more  of  a  wonder.  One  night  of  early  summer,  before  the  light  had  quite  failed,  I  sat  in  a  motorcar  in  the  Old  Brompton  Road  waiting  for  a  friend  to  emerge  from  a  flat.  A  woman  with  a  dog  floated  by.  She  was  a  woman  of  resignment  to  weary,  lonely  wealth,  and  the  dog  was  a  dachshund.  She  floated-for  already,  at  a  short  distance,  I  could  see  ap-  proaching  a  set  of  four  or  five  of  the  new  exotics,  and  the  mere  sight  of  them  altered  the  behavior  of  the  envi-  ronment.  The  woman  was  etiolated  as  in  an  El  Greco  painting.  Her  face  was  pale.  I  thought  she  was  an  elegy  in  a  country  churchyard  all  unto  herself,  and  wondered  what  she  was  doing  in  [REDACTED].  The  group  of  boys  and  girls  had  come  up  to  her.  I  looked  through  the  windscreen.  The  street  lights  went  up  and  the  woman  cast  a  sharp,  long  mauve  shadow;  her  dachshund  cast  an  awkward  blur.  The  young  people  silently  encircled  her  in  their  bright  clothes,  moving  slowly,  like  som-  nambulists,  hand  in  hand.  They  cast  no  shadows.  That  is  all,.  I  have  no  corroborative  evidence.  T  was  the  absentmindedness  of  one  of  these  harlequinades  that  made  me  think  of  Rilke's  acrobats-those  of  the  &quot;Fifth  Elegy,&quot;  a  compound  of  his  beloved  Parisian  somersaulters  and  his  beloved  Picasso,  &quot;Les  Saltimbanques.&quot;  Rilke  was  moved  by  them,  as  he  would  have  been  by  these  Kensington  per-  noctators.  He  observed  unreality  and  pathos  in  their  performance.  Swing-  ing  and  smiling  with  automatic  preci-  sion,  those  equilibrists  of  the  &quot;Fifth  Elegy&quot;  have  got  their  facile  tricks  by  heart;  the  first  and  real  inspiration  of  their  act,  mastered  with  an  effort  of  concentration  and  sacrifice,  has  been  done  for  by  habit.  They  do  their  turn  with  blank-eyed  perfection;  their  per- " b"formance  is  a  &quot;fake  fruit  of  boredom.&quot;  Boredom.  It  insinuated  itself  into  the  clever  contortions,  the  whirlwinds  and  arabesques,  executed  on  the  Lon-  don  pavements  of  1952.  All  these  de-  lightful  things  are  done  in  a  daze.  Why  do  the  acrobats  seem  sadly  affecting?  They  are  jauntily  pleased  enough  with  themselves,  they  appear  to  have  no  cares.  Why  are  their  purple  blouses  so  pathetic?  Because  boredom  has  got  them  young,  and  where  Rilke's  profes-  sionals  degenerated  into  apathy,  re-  hearsal  by  rehearsal,  year  by  year,  these  lovely  Bayswater  fly-by-nights  were  born  with  the  thing.  It  precipitates  them  forth  to  this  desperate  nightly  ritual.  Rilke's  acrobats  are  bored  be-  cause  they  perform,  but  ours  perform  because  they  are  bored.  Ours  are  in  a  worse  predicament.  What  is  boredom?  It  is  the  absence  of  curiosity,  for  one  thing.  In  boredom,  the  world  lacks  possibility,  and  is  preordained.  Now,  on  the  [REDACTED]  streets,  it  is  difficult  for  me  not  to  see  in  the  con-  scious  practitioners  the  half-submerged  performers  of  my  memory.  It  is  when  they  appear  hand  in  hand  that  their  plight  seems  keenest.  Those  hectic  tribes  are  united  by  isolation.  While  Picasso's  saltimbanques  are  exclusive  be-  cause  of  their  common  calling  and  purpose,  those  of  the  postwar  pave,  ments  employed  their  skill  in  order  to  cultivate  exclusiveness.  Exclusiveness  was  really  the  tragic  art  they  practiced.  For  their  weird  and  wayward  talent  lacked  inspiration,  and,  half  asleep,  they  embraced  the  choice  aesthetics  of  the  past.  In  their  capacity  as  mimics  of  the  past,  though,  they  were  seen  at  their  best.  How  like  they  were,  in  their  defiant  irresponsible  prancings,  to  Proust's  &quot;little  band,&quot;  his  amoral  dar-  lings  of  the  Balbec  shore!  And  how  at  other  times  they  resembled  Gide's  &quot;lit-  tle  band&quot;  in  his  &quot;Faux-Monnayeurs,&quot;  upholding  the  proper  solemnity  and  stylish  antinomian  confidence.  Ever  to  take  them  as  they  want  to  be  taken,  as  original  material,  as  a  jubi-  lant  cult  of  inspired  splendor-nothing  doing.  Even  in  the  fifties,  they  had  come  too  late,  to  me  and  my  like.  We  regret  to  say,  my  captious  like  and  myself,  that  we  prefer  the  splendid  originals  in  the  books.  But  as  curious  imitations  arriving  late  on  the  market  they  were  welcome  indeed.  For  it  was  a  kind  of  comedy  and  a  kind  of  trag-  edy,  and  altogether  a  wonder,  to  watch  this  young  scornful  priesthood  of  the  Aesthetic  Ideal  advancing  in  pontificalibus  up  the  Old  Brompton  Road. "