 b"(  T  H  I  S  W  E  E  K  '  s  W  I  N  N  E  R  O  F  T  H  E  G  O  L  D  E  N  O  P  T  I  C  -  T  H  E  C  O  V  E  T  E  D  P  R  E  S  S  -  A  N  D  -  P  E  R  I  -  O  D  I  C  A  L  A  W  A  R  D  O  F  T  H  E  N  A  T  I  O  N  A  L  C  O  U  N  C  I  L  O  F  S  A  U  C  E  R  -  S  I  G  H  T  I  N  G  S  O  C  I  E  T  I  E  S  .  )  Kramponick,  37,  of  12  Pop-  lar  Street,  a  buttons  foreman  at  the  Soft-Weve  Shirt  Factory  of  this  city,  and  his  wife,  Myra,  a  house-  wife  and  mother  of  two,  never  gave  any  thought  to  flying  saucers  until  1  a.m.  yesterday.  At  about  that  hour,  Mrs.  Krindchick  happened  to  be  glanc-  ing  out  the  window  when  her  eye  was  attracted  by  a  strange  object  in  the  sky.  She  remembers  calling  to  her  husband,  &quot;Les,  what  is  that-swamp  gas?&quot;  Mr.  Krindchick,  his  suspicions  aroused  by  the  thought  that  swamp  gas  was  unlikely  over  City  Hall,  took  a  good  look.  &quot;More  likely  St.  Elmo's  fire  or  migrating  geese,&quot;  he  recalls  re-  marking.  The  incident  would  have  ended  there  except  that  a  few  moments  later  Mr.  Krindchick's  eye  fell  on  the  screen  of  the  little  radar  set  he  has  rigged  up  in  the  laundry  room-he  is  an  avid  hobbyist  and  a  past  president  of  the  Elks-and  he  noticed  a  blip  in  the  area  of  the  unidentified  object.  &quot;The  wind  was  wrong  for  an  approaching  plane,&quot;  Mr.  Krindchick,  a  teetotaller,  told  the  Gazette  this  morning,  &quot;so,  just  to  be  on  the  safe  side,  we  decided  to  put  in  some  phone  calls.  We  figured  if  there  was  a  real  situation  up  there  we'd  run  smack  into  a  surefire  sign  of  it-flooded  switchboards  at  the  local  offices  of  the  Set-  urday  Evening  Post  and  the  AP.  and  Station  KZMP.&quot;  While  the  Krindchicks  were  making  up  their  minds  whom  to  call  first,  the  ob-  ject,  which  they  describe  as  &quot;oddly  shaped,  with  a  kind  of  bulge,&quot;  was  rapidly  de-  scending  on  their  back  yard,  making  no  sound  but  &quot;a  kind  of  low  rushing  hum  that  almost  approached  a  roar.&quot;  The  Krindchicks,  who  are  Civil  Defense  Air  Raid  Wardens,  both  stated  that  the  craft-for  such  it  proved  to  be-either  hovered  afoot  or  two  over  their  lettuce  patch  or  set-  tled  firmly  on  their  com-  post  heap.  &quot;It  was  bigger  than  the  firehouse,&quot;  Mr.  Krindchick  stated,  but  then  agreed  cheerfully  with  his  wife  when  she  stated  that  it  was  &quot;more  like  the  size  of  an  old-fashioned  ferry.&quot;  Mr.  Krind-  chick,  an  unruffied,  clear-eyed  man  who  serves  weekends  in  the  Naval  Re-  serve  and  one  night  a  week  as  a  vol-  unteer  with  a  Red  Cross  team  that  gives  eye  tests  to  the  needy,  described  the  craft  as  made  of  &quot;a  strange  metal  I've  never  before  encountered.&quot;  Mrs.  Krindchick,  who  is  recording  secretary  of  the  Poplar  Street  School  P.-T.A.,  added  that  the  ship's  surface  impressed  her  as  being  of  a  &quot;very  dull,  shiny  material.&quot;  By  now  the  Krindchicks  were  pre-  pared  for  almost  any  eventuality,  so  they  were  not  surprised  when  a  door  swung,  slid,  or  folded  open  in  the  craft's  side  and  a  shaft  of  light  spilled  from  the  interior-'&quot;an  eerie,  blue-pink  light,  not  unlike  that  given  off  by  a  television  set  or  a  pizzeria,&quot;  according  to  Mrs.  Krindchick,  who,  before  her  marriage,  worked  as  an  interior-design  consultant  for  Balsa  Brothers  Furni-  ture.  In  the  light,  a  creature  was  clear-  ly  visible.  &quot;He  was  about  average  height  for  a  being  of  that  type,&quot;  Mr.  Krindchick  told  reporters,  &quot;dressed  in  either  a     green  cloak  that  hung  from  his  shoul-  ders-if  those  were  in  fact  his  shoul-  ders-or  a  greenish  chalk-stripe  busi-  ness  suit.  He  was  very  much  like  you  and  I,  and  yet  totally  different,  in  a  way  I  can't  even  begin  to  explain.&quot;  &quot;As  you  can  imagine,&quot;  Mrs.  Krind-  chick  added,  &quot;we  were  hardly  in  a  state  to  make  detailed  observations.  When  this  person,  or  type,  beckoned  to  us  to  come  to  him,  we  barely  had  time  to  snatch  up  some  freshly  sharpened  pencils  and  a  Kodak.  [Unfortunately,  the  camera  later  proved  to  be  unload-  ed.]  A  moment  later,  we  were  standing  in  front  of  the  ship  and  this  ...  individ-  ual  ...  was  communicating  with  us.&quot;  Whether  their  visitor  spoke  English  or  merely  directed  his  thoughts  to  their  intelligence  centers  the  Krindchicks  cannot  say.  &quot;That's  one  area  in  which  we've  just  plain  forgot,&quot;  Mr.  Krind-  chick  admits.  &quot;But  anyway,  we  under-  stood  each  other  fine,  even  though  he  had  a  slight  speech  defect.  He  intro-  duced  himself-his  name  was  either  Falmbach  or  Felsch,  something  like  that-and  he  clearly  knew  we  were  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Krindchick.  He  said  there  were  things  of  importance  he  wanted  to  convey  to  us,  and  would  we  come  aloft  with  him.&quot;  The  Krindchicks  were  naturally  ap-  prehensive,  but  they  felt  that  the  po-  tential  of  this  encounter  was  too  important  for  them  to  allow  personal  considera-  tions  to  interfere.  Mrs.  Krindchick  checked  back  at  the  house  to  see  that  the  children  were  asleep  and  all  the  faucets  turned  off,  and  then  she  and  her  husband  joined  their  host  aboard  his  ship.  Almost  before  they  knew  it,  they  were  air-  borne,  the  ship  taking  off  with  what  the  Krindchicks  describe  as  a  &quot;purring,  thundering&quot;  sound.  OW  began  for  the  Krindchicks,  where  high  above  the  earth,  one  of  the  most  memorable  hours  of  their  lives.  While  their  host  was  piloting  the  ship  through  the  atmos-  phere,  his  knees  lightly  grip-  ping  a  wheel-like  lever,  they  had  time  to  make  careful  observations  of  the  ship's  in-  terior.  It  was  finished  in  varying  shades  of  a  muted  orange  blue,  they  agree,  with  Mrs.  Krindchick  add-  ing  that  occasional  accents " b"of  canary  yellow  provided  further  cheer  to  the  spacious  cabin.  The  &quot;modern,  sort  of  way-out&quot;  furniture  was  of  a  kind  of  wood  neither  Krindchick  had  ever  seen  before.  The  upholstered  pieces,  Mrs.  Krindchick  noted,  were  covered  in  what  appeared  to  be  a  sturdy  washable  fabric.  Before  they  had  time  for  further  ob-  servation,  the  Krindchicks  were  joined  by  Falmbach,  or  Felsch,  who  served  them  a  tastefully  prepared  meal.  Al-  though  the  Krindchicks  had  had  a  late  and  ample  pot-roast  dinner,  they  wisely  chose  to  sample  everything  their  host  set  before  them-or,  rather,  for  some  reason,  slightly  to  their  right.  Their  notes  show  the  first  course  to  havebeen  &quot;a  sort  of  fruit-cuppy,  shrimp-cocktail  sort  of  thing.&quot;  The  Krindchicks  clearly  remember  the  main  course  as  a  very  strange-looking  meat  that  tasted  like  TV-dinner  chicken.  &quot;The  seasoning,&quot;  Mrs.  Krindchick  said,  &quot;had  quite  a  bit  of  sage  in  it.&quot;  The  Krindchicks  found  it  impossible  to  give  their  full  attention  to  analyzing  the  food,  for  throughout  the  meal  their  host  was  lecturing  them,  in  an  arrest-  ing  audio-visual  style,  on  his  home,  a  distant,  cloudlike  planet  that  he  care-  fully  pinpointed  for  them  in  the  up-  per-left  corner  of  his  celestial  chart.  (Mr.  Krindchick  later  said  it  was  &quot;nearer  the  middle.&quot;)  The  visitor  was  obliged  to  return  there  almost  at  once,  he  indicated,  owing  to  what  the  Krindchicks  understood  to  be  either  &quot;a  fuel  problem&quot;  or  &quot;a  foot  problem.&quot;  He  had  seized  this  brief  opportunity  to  exchange  views  with  representa-  tive  people  of  the  planet  [REDACTED].  He  felt  confident  the  meeting  would  lead  to  the  mutual  enrichment  of  their  civiliza-  tions.  For  the  next  half  hour,  over  coffee,  host  and  guests  unburdened  themselves  at  length  on  a  great  multiplicity  of  ques-  tions,  so  that  when  the  Krindchicks  were  all  too  soon  delivered  back  to  No.  12  Poplar  Street  they  felt,  in  Mrs.  Krindchick's  words,  &quot;wiser,  deeper,  better  human  beings  for  the  experi-  ence.&quot;  29  &quot;There  was  a  heck  of  a  lot  of  daz-  zling  conversation,&quot;  Mr.  Krindchick  added.  &quot;But  meaty.&quot;  Pressed  for  details  of  the  shipboard  conference,  the  Krindchicks  said  they  have  not  yet  had  time  to  sort  out  their  crowded  impressions.  Among  the  sub-  jects  touched  on  were  rush-hour  traffic,  &quot;The  Sound  of  Music,&quot;  migraine  headaches,  and  current  trends  in  the  apparel  industry.  &quot;All  in  [REDACTED];  said  Mr.  Krindchick,  &quot;a  most  worthwhile  experience.&quot;  Mrs.  Krindchick  agreed.  "