 b"THE  series  of  discomfitures  I  un-  derwent  in  [REDACTED]  several  weeks  ago-all  of  them  petty  and  seemingly  unrelated-began,  if  mem-  ory  serves,  ata  West  End  chemist's  the  morning  after  my  arrival.  A  thin-lipped  xenophobe  whose  face  attested  descent  from  a  long  line  of  flounders,  he  wrin-  kled  his  nose  in  scorn  as  I  enumerated  the  toiletries  I  sought.  &quot;Astring-o-sol?&quot;  he  repeated.  &quot;What's  that-one  of  those  Yankee  tranquillizers  you  folk  eat  like  ground-  nuts?&quot;  Rather  than  engage  in  a  lengthy  causerie,  I  asked  if  he  had  some  tooth-  paste,  on  the  order  of  Crest,  containing  fluoristan.  He  did  not,  he  rejoiced  to  say;  the  British  varieties  he  stocked  were  mercifully  free  of  any  such  adul-  terant.  &quot;And  as  for  the  particular  toothbrush  you  mentioned,&quot;  he  added,  &quot;my  advice  is  the  same  I  give  all  our  colonials.  Just  massage  your  gums  with  a  twig.&quot;  My  amour-propre  had  barely  re-  vived  when,  a  day  or  two  later,  I  hap-  pened  into  a  luggage  shop  off  St.  James's.  From  the  opulent  array  of  va-  lises,  shooting  sticks,  and  bootjacks,  not  to  mention  the  languid  Guards  type  be-  hind  the  counter,  it  was  abundantly  clear  that  the  clientele  was  restricted  to  the  wellborn.  The  customer  ahead  of  me-also  an  American-was  in  a  vis-  ible  flap  about  the  price  of  a  cigarette  case.  &quot;Thirty-six  guineas?&quot;  she  was  protesting.  &quot;That's  over  a  hun-  dred  [REDACTED];  &quot;Quite,&quot;  agreed  the  salesman,  plucking  the  case  from  her  hands.  &quot;May  I  suggest  you  root  around  Cheapside  for  something  more  commensurate  with  your  purse?  Good  morning,  Madam.&quot;  He  ebbed  toward  me.  &quot;You  wished  ...  ?&quot;  &quot;I'm  thinking  of  a  book  box  for  my  daughter,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  know,  those  contraptions  where  the  front  and  sides  flop  down-&quot;  His  eyes  rolled  upward  in  martyr-  dom.  Spare  him  my  explanations,  he  begged;  even  the  most  benighted  must  be  aware  that  Crosspatch's  had  sup-  plied  book  boxes  to  every  royal  house  since  the  Plantagenets.  Naturally,  one  couldn't  hazard  a  guess  at  the  cost  of  special-order  items,  but  if  inquiries  were  put  forward  details  might  be  forthcoming  in  a  few  weeks.  After  a  pause  unbroken  save  for  the  sound  of  my  breathing,  I  indicated  that  a  five-cent  shopping  bag  would  fulfill  the  purpose  gloriously,  and  withdrew.  The  salesman  bore  my  departure  with     YOUR  UMBRELLA  the  stoicism  of  a  true  Guardsman.  At  an  ironmonger's  in  the  Brompton  Road  next  day,  a  third  atternpt-this  time  to  buy  a  flame-thrower  to  eradi-  cate  the  weeds  from  our  garden  path-  also  ended  in  stalemate.  Despite  a  me-  ticulous  description  of  the  mechanism  as  advertised  in  the  Countryman,  the  shopkeeper  betrayed  not  a  glimmer  of  comprehension.  Worse  yet,  he  adopted  the  soothing  manner  used  with  dotards  and  the  fractious,  and  propelled  me  firmly  out  the  door.  Pondering  my  re-  buffs  on  the  way  back  to  the  hotel,  I  began  to  see  that  they  were  all  part  of  a  pattern.  Something  was  afoot,  although  what  I  couldn't  for  the  life  of  me  figure  out.  The  answer  came  from  a  wholly  un-  expected  source.  The  following  Mon-  day,  I  was  returning  by  rail  from  a  weekend  near  Towcester,  in  North-  amptonshire.  Sharing  my  carriage  was  a  plump,  bowler-hatted  gentleman  im-  mersed  in  the  contents  of  his  dispatch  case.  Neither  of  us  had  progressed  be-  yond  platitudes  when  a  sudden  gust  scattered  his  correspondence.  As  I  bent  to  help  retrieve  it,  my  eye  was  caught  by  the  letterhead  on  the  top  sheet.  &quot;  (Creative  Humiliation  Associates,  Ltd.,  &quot;  I  said,  mystified.  &quot;What  in  the  world  is  that?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  just  a  company  I  manage,&quot;  he  replied  offhandedly.  &quot;Educational  sort  of  thing.  Equips  all  types  of  folk-  clerks  and  shop  assistants,  hall  porters,  garage  attendants,  whomever-  to  protect  themselves.&quot;  &quot;Against  what?&quot;  &quot;Why,  customers,  of  course,&quot;  he  said,  clearly  surprised  at  the  question.  &quot;Never  heard  of  us?  Ah  yes,  you're  an  American.  Well,  we  teach  'em  the  dynamics:  woolgather-  ing,  disdain,  the  snub  direct  and  im-  plied,  Schadenfreude,  the  mechanics  of  sniggering,  simple  and  compound  ex-  acerbation-the  lot.&quot;  I  ventured  the  opinion  that  I  had  met  some  of  his  graduates,  and  asked  if  by  chance  the  institute  ever  permitted  visitors.  Mr.  Huxtable  fairly  exuded  cordiality.  He  would  be  delighted  to  re-  ceive  me-to  demonstrate  a  few  tricks  that,  he  added  slyly,  my  countrymen  might  very  well  emulate.  We  parted  at  Waterloo  with  an  appointment  for  the  next  day  and  his  pledge  that  a  stimulat-  ing  experience  awaited  me.  DRUMTOCHTIE  House,  in  Cockspur  Street,  was  a  rabbit  warren  har-  boring  every  imaginable  kind  of  enter-  prise-Indian  shipping  agencies,  experts in  porcelain  repair,  costumiers,  and  so-  cieties  for  the  propagation  of  birching.  The  decayed  gentlewoman  behind  the  desk  in  Huxtable's  anteroom  exhibited  momentary  misgivings,  but  the  sight  of  his  card  dispelled  them.  With  an  in-  junction  that  class  was  in  session,  she  waved  me  through  an  inner  door.  The  two  dozen  individuals  listening  to  Mr.  Huxtable  were  widely  divergent  types-several  Jermyn  Street  fops,  four  or  five  persons  in  City  attire,  a  few  sharp-faced  characters  from  the  East  End,  and  some  pustular  Mods  with  luxuriant  hairdos.  I  tiptoed  to  a  rear  seat,  and  in  short  order  managed  to  pick  up  the  thread  of  the  discourse.  &quot;Now,  the  same  rules  apply  to  the  news  agents  and  tobacconists  among  you,&quot;  Huxtable  was  saying.  &quot;Remem-  ber,  no  matter  how  mealymouthed  he  is,  the  chap  who's  invaded  your  shop  has  one  purpose  only-to  muss  up  your  stock  and  disrupt  your  routine.  He's  your  adversary,  and  as  such  must  be  dealt  with  summarily.  The  involuntary  step  backward,  the  perplexed  frown,  the  fingertips  drumming  on  the  count-  er,  and  the  sudden  conviction  that  you  face  a  lunatic  at  large-these  are  your  ingredients,  and  how  skillfully  you  mix  them  will  determine  how  soon  you  rid  yourself  of  this  pest....  Is  all  that  clear?  Very  well,  then,  let's  press  on  to  the  shirtmakers  and  hosiers.&quot;  'The  Jermyn  Street  contingent  sat  up  ex-  pectantly.  &quot;You  fellows,  like  the  be-  spoke  tailors,  are  in  an  ideal  position.  You  see  all  the  client's  pitiful  inadequa-  cies-the  sunken  chest,  the  skinny  shanks-and  it  behooves  you  to  make  the  most  of  them.  Have  you  evolved  any  useful  techniques?&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  titter  behind  my  hand,&quot;  said  a  Beau  Brummell  in  a  resplendent  foulard  shirt.  &quot;For  those  slow  to  em-  barrass,  I  shake  my  head  as  if  to  say,  'Gorblimey,  what  a  mess.&quot;  When  they  flush  up  nice  and  rosy,  you  know  you've  brought  'em  to  heel.&quot;  &quot;A  toff  with  a  fat  neck  is  always  surefire,&quot;  put  in  a  colleague  of  his.  \xc2\xabYou  simply  pretend  the  tape  measure's  too  short.&quot;  Huxtable  nodded.  &quot;Good  show,&quot;  he  conceded,  &quot;but  both  those  methods  hardly  scratch  the  surface.  Now,  over  in  Savile  Row  they've  developed  a  real-  ly  wizard  ploy.  Should  the  fitter  discov-  er  someone  with  exceptionally  long  arms,  he'll  murmur  the  word  'chim-  panzee'  to  his  assistant.  Not  loud,  mind  you-just  so  the  customer  overhears.  Then  there's  the  distorting  mirror,  which  I  assure  you  takes  the  mickey  out  of  the  most  inflated  ego.  Yes,  you  accessory  men  must  face  it-you've  " b"got  to  move  with  the  times.&quot;  &quot;Would  you  ampli-  fy  one  point  you  made  earlier,  sir?&quot;  a  youth  whose  hair  swirled  to  his  waist  requested.  &quot;You  cautioned  us  spe-  cifically  against  the  guffaw.&quot;  &quot;Indeed,  and  I  should  have  explained,&quot;  said  Huxtable.  &quot;The  scornful  smile,  gentle-  men,  has  twice  the  po-  tency  of  the  loud,  de-  risive  bray-just  as  the  rapier,  in  expert  hands,  is  far  deadlier  than  the  sabre.  There  is  no  more  beautiful  sight  than  a  customer  taunt-  ed  to  the  verge  of  apoplexy  by  a  series  of  covert  sneers,  and  he  who  learns  to  goad  with  delicacy  and  style  can  reap  rich  rewards  in  merchandising.  All  right,&quot;  he  said  briskly.  &quot;So  much  for  that.  Suppose  we  hear  from  the  footwear  people.&quot;  A  benign  old  party  in  a  morning  coat  arose,  identifying  himself  as  Joskin,  the  Dover  Street  bootmaker.  &quot;We've  our  own  special  problems  in  the  custom  trade,&quot;  he  explained.  &quot;The  man  who  buys  ready-made  shoes  more  often  than  nothas  a  hole  in  his  sock-an  excellent  pretext  for  the  staff  to  giggle  or  ignore  him  till  he  flounces  out.  However,  since  we  cater  only  to  the  gentry,  whose  socks  are  flawless,  there's  no  expeditious  way  to  humiliate  them.&quot;  Huxtable's  brows  contracted  in  thought.  &quot;Can't  you  surreptitiously  rip  their  hose  with  your  nail  whilst  measur-  ing  the  last?&quot;  &quot;By  George,  it  never  occurred  to  me,&quot;  Joskin  confessed.  &quot;Huxtable,  that  suggestion  pays  for  the  cost  of  this  course  twice  over.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  the  head  replied  graciously.  &quot;As  a  matter  of  fact,  you  open  up  a  fruitful  line  of  inquiry.  I  don't  wish  to  flatter  the  shoe  clerks  here  to  the  exclusion  of  the  rest,  but  you've  always  pioneered  at  infuriating  the  client.  Now,  it's  obvious  a  man's  at  his  most  vulnerable  when  he's  shoe-  less,  and  that's  the  time  to  strike  at  his  dignity.  What  refinements  come  to  mind?&quot;  &quot;Call  him  to  the  phone  so  he  has  to  hop  around  on  one  foot,&quot;  a  voice  proposed. &quot;How  about  shouting  'Fire!'?&quot;  an-  other  chimed  in.  &quot;Wouldn't  he  feel  a  bloody  ass  if  he  bolted  out  onto  the  curb  with  his  garters  flying?&quot;  &quot;Splendid,&quot;  Huxtable  said.  &quot;Work  on  those-sharpen  and  expand  them.  Remember,  I'm  here  purely  as  a  cata-  lyst,  to  activate  your  thinking  and  evolve  new  modes  of  mortification.&quot;  He  paused  for  a  sip  of  water,  then  ad-  dressed  a  youth  in  the  front  row.  &quot;Well,  Molesworth,  how  are  you  far-  ing  with  the  ladies  at-what's  that  department  store  of  yours?&quot;  &quot;Bondage's,&quot;  said  the  young  man.  &quot;Coming  along  nicely,  sir.  When  the  fatties  ask  for  a  size  12,  I  give  'em  a  playful  litle  push  and  advise  'em  to  see  a  tentmaker  in  the  Woolwich  Road.  Any  of  the  other  snobs  you  shoot  down  in  flames  by  just  recommending  the  budget  shop  on  the  sixth  floor.&quot;  Huxtable  consulted  his  notes  and  pocketed  them.  &quot;Fine,  that  disposes  of  everyone  today  except  you  hair-  dressers,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Our  next  session  will  confine  itself  to  ways  to  render  yourselves  more  odious.  Meanwhile,  continue  the  treatment  outlined  hither-  to-namely,  tease  and  lacquer  every  lock,  stock,  and  follicle  on  the  patron's  head  and  then  predict  her  imminent  baldness.  Good  afternoon  and  God  bless.&quot;   As  the  room  emptied,  Huxtable  came  for-  ward  and  greeted  me  cordially.  I  conveyed  my  appreciation  of  the  privilege  he  had  so  gen-  erously  extended.  On  the  contrary,  he  re-  joined,  he  hoped  I  would  not  regard  to-  day's  class  as  typical  ;  his  roster  embraced  a  vari-  ety  of  other  people-  tax  auditors,  ushers,  and  bus  drivers-adept  at  browbeating  the  pub-  lic  but  anxious  to  de-  velop  their  proficiency.  &quot;And  I'll  whisper  a  tiny  secret  in  your  ear,&quot;  he  confided,  assuring  himself  nobody  was  within  earshot.  &quot;My  associates  and  I  are  planning  a  course  that'd  be  the  exact  opposite  of  this  one-for  custom-  ers.  We'd  show  'em  how  to  thwart  these  bastards-to  be  just  as  noxious  as  they  are.  I  say,  look  here,&quot;  he  ex-  claimed.  &quot;What's  your  opinion?  Would  there  be  any  future  for  this  kind  of  thing  in  the  States?&quot;  O.K.,  I  thought,  you  asked  for  it.  &quot;No,  sirree,&quot;  I  said  emphatically,  &quot;and  don't  think  you're  going  to  foist  it  on  us.  Remember  something,  Limey-we  gave  you  a  warm  breakfast  in  1776,  a  hot  lunch  in  1812,  and  we'll  give  you  a  sizzling  supper  any  time  you're  ready.  Put  that  in  your  pipe  and  smoke  it.&quot;  I  looked  back  at  the  man  just  before  I  slammed  the  door.  Whether  he  was  smoking  or  not  I  can't  say,  but  one  thing  I'll  promise  you-he  sure  was  burning. "