 b"MY  father  left  an  enormous  for-  M  tune  to  my  mother,  and  she,  on  herdemise  six  months  ago,  left  it  to  me.  I  mean  a  real  fortune-  none  of  your  modest  little  stock  port-  folios.  I  am  now  rolling  in  money.  I  was  grateful,  as  anyone  would  be,  but  I  was  disturbed  by  one  small  provision  of  my  mother's  will.  It  stipulates  thatI  am  not  to  buy,  or  receive  as  a  gift,  a  single  cigar  for  the  rest  of  my  life.  One  puff  on  a  purchased  Upmann  or  on  a  proud  new  daddy's  gift  El  Producto  and  away  goes  my  giant  golden  egg  into  the  account  of  a  small  orphanage  just  south  of  Skaneateles!  My  mother  had,  from  her  point  of  view,  excellent  reasons  for  this  stern  restriction.  Father  was  a  chain  cigar  smoker,  as  was  I  from  my  early  teens,  and  Mother  detested  cigars;  actually,  she  hated  all  smoking,  but  she  especial-  ly  loathed  cigars.  During  the  many  years  of  her  marriage,  shedid  every-  thing  she  could  to  break  Father  of  the  cigar  habit.  Then,  in  time,  she  worked  on  me  as  well.  I  will  recount  only  a  sampling  of  the  vigorous  devices  she  used.  She  had  all  the  drapes  and  rugs  in  our  home  dry-cleanedeach  month,  which  meant  that  we  were  bare  of  drapery  and  ruggery  much  of  the  time.  She  destroyed  all  of  Father's  cigars  and  my  cigars  whenever  she  came  upon  them,  so  that  we  were  forced  to  cache  supplies  in  increasingly  unlikely  and  in-  convenient  places.  Whenever  she  came  upon  either  ofus  smoking,  she  would  snatch  the  cigar  from  mouth  or  hand  and  defenestrate  it,  and  then  insist  that  the  window  be  left  wideopen  to  air  the  room,  no  matter  how  cold  and  windy  the  weather.  But  these  embarrassments  were  to  no  avail.  With  each  passing  year,  Father  and  I  became  more  ad-  dicted  to  cigars.  You  might  think  that  now,  prac-  ticed  as  I  have  become  in  secret  smok-  ing,  I  could  find  means  to  provide  my-  self  with  plenty  of  cigars  despite  the  codicil  of  her  will.  Not  so.  She  had  also  hired,  and  arranged  to  pay  well  and  in  perpetuity,  two  adamantine  supervisors  who,  in  thesepast  six  months,have  taken  up  residence  with  me  and  now  follow  me  everywhere,  even  into  my  bedroom,  watching  my  every  move  to  see  that  I  come  by  no  new  cigars.I  say  &quot;new&quot;  because  until  last  week  there  were  still  some  old  cigars  hidden  in  a  pair  of  my  galoshes  and  under  the  lid  of  my  harpsichord,  which  I  could  sus-  tain  myself  on.  I  could  smoke  these  with  impunity,  since  I  had  neither  bought  them  nor  received  them  as  gifts" b"after  the  will  had  gone  into  effect.  Then,  just  as  I  was  growing  des-  perate(I  had,  in  fact,  shamefacedly  found  myself  picking  up  cigar  butts  from  sidewalks),  I  received,  just  last  week,  a  most  astonishing  piece  of  direct-  mail  advertising.  It  was  a  large  white  envelope,  postmarked  Garden  City,  and  beside  the  glassine-covered  slot  that  revealed  my  name  and  address  was  a  printed  announcement  in  bold  red  and  black  letters:  CONGRATULATIOKNS!  You  have  won  a  fully-equipped  1967  Thunderbird  or  a  1967  Chrysler  15-it.  Mustang  Runabout  (plus  Lone  Star  Roadmaster  trailer  and  50-HP  Chrysler  motor)  or  an  Apache  &quot;Eagle&quot;  Camper  Trailer  (sleeps  six)  or  an  Agfa  Isomat-rapid  Camera  Kit  or  a  Cricketeer  Plaid  Sports  Jacket  or  a  19-in.  Admiral  Portable  TV  or  5  new  Robt.  Burns  cigars  or  a  Polaroid  Color  Pack  Camera!  REPEAT:  You  have  already  won  one  of  these  prizes!  (Your  Official  Winner's  Card  is  inside)  I  could  scarcely  believe  my  good  fortune,  or,  rather,  my  prospects.  The  first  seven  items  and  the  last  meant  nothing  to  me,  of  course.  I  had  al-  ready  ordered  a  1967  Thunderbird  and  a  Chrysler  Runabout,  and  I  owned  an  adequate  Lone  Star  Roadmaster  trailer  and  a  50-HP  Chrysler  motor.  My  Apache  &quot;Eagle&quot;  Camper  Trailer  sleeps  twelve.  I  never  go  anywhere  without  my  Agfa  Isomat-rapid  Cam-  era  Kit  slung  over  the  left  shoulder  of  my  Cricketeer  Plaid  SportsJacket,  and  my  Polaroid  Color  Pack  Camera  slung  over  the  right,  and  many  of  the  forty  rooms  in  my  new  house  contain  19-in.  Admiral  Portable  TV  sets.  But  it  was  the  eighth  item  that  set  my  heart  leaping.  &quot;5  new  Robt.  Burns  cigars.&quot;  Five!  And  new!  And  here  was  my  chance  to  win  them-not  buy,  not  receive  them  as  a  gift,  but  win.  This  was  a  contingency  Mother  had  not  al-  lowed  for.  Clearly,  I  could  smoke  any  cigars  I  wor  without  violating  the  will's  restrictions.  I  turned  the  envelope  over.  As  though  deliberately  to  spur  me  on,  the  direct-mail  people  had  printed  the  identical  proclamation,  in  even  larger  letters,  on  the  back.  I  tore  the  envelope  open.  There,  on  a  leaflet,  were  pictures  of  the  ten  prizes;  no  doubt  about  it,  the  cigars  were  real,  beautiful  cigars.  And  if  I  needed  additional  evidence  that  the  envelope  bore  no  false  promises,  there  was  also  a  sheet  containing  complete  descriptions  of  all  the  prizes.  On  the  certificate  itself,  the  Robt.  Burns  people  had  printed  the  whole  congratulatory" b"message  again,  adding  &quot;'Take  this  Off-  cial  Winner's  Card  to  your  cigar  re-  tailer.  He'll  tell  you  which  prize  you've  won.&quot;  Prickling  with  anticipation,  I  rushed  to  the  man  who  had  formerly  been  my  favorite  cigar  retailer,  a  dour  stationer  named  Ike,  and  placed  my  certificate  on  the  counter.  &quot;Well,  hi,&quot;  said  he.  &quot;Long  time  no  see.&quot;  &quot;Never  mind  that,&quot;  I  snapped.  &quot;Just  give  me  my  prize.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yeah,  the  Robert  Burns  sweep-  stakes.  I  get  a  lot  of  them  thesedays.  You  gentlemen  got  certificates,  too?&quot;  He  directed  the  question  to  my  over-  seers,  who  had,  of  course,  followed  me  in  and  now  flanked  me.  &quot;Naw,  we're  wid  him,&quot;  one  of  them  said.  'The  prize,  the  prize!&quot;  I  cried.  Ike  studied  the  number  on  my  cer-  tificate  and  compared  it  with  a  list  he  had  before  him.  &quot;Good  Lord!&quot;  he  fi-  nally  said.  &quot;Good  Lord,  Mr.  For-  sythe,  One  four  two  four  six  one....  You've  won  a  Thunderbird!&quot;  My  stomach  lurched.  &quot;Check  the  number  again.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  need  to!&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;Look  for  yourself.  Well,  I'll  be!&quot;  &quot;All  right,  now  listen,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  about  an  exchange?  The  Thunderbird  for  five  new  Robert  Burns  cigars?&quot;  &quot;Gee,  I  don't  know,  [REDACTED];  Ike  said.  &quot;It  don't  say  nothing  here  about  ex-  changes.&quot;  &quot;Please,  Ike,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;After  all-&quot;  &quot;You  heard  the  man,&quot;  one  of  my  watchdogs  said  to  me.  I  will  admit  that  I  was  dashed,  but  only  for  a  moment,  because  it  suddenly  occurred  to  me  that  many  of  my  friends  down  at  the  club  must  have  received  certificates,  too,  and  that  perhaps  they  would  be  willing  to  let  me  have  them.  I  drove  over  there  in  my  old  T-Bird,  and  in  a  few  minutes  had  collected  eleven.  My  ever-present  minions  eyed  them  sourly.  &quot;No  soap,  Jack,&quot;  one  of  them  said.  &quot;Them  are  gifts.  The  will  says  no  gifts.&quot;  &quot;The  will  says  no  gifts  of  cigars,&quot;  said  I.  &quot;It  says  nothing  about  certifi-  cates.&quot;  _  In  ten  minutes,  I  was  back  at  Ike's,  and  he  was  checking  the  numbers.  As  my  infuriating  luck  would  have  it,  these  certificates  netted  me  two  more  Thun-  derbirds,  three  Camper  Trailers,  five  TV  sets,  and  a  Chrysler  Mustang  Run-  about,  but  not  a  single  pack  of  cigars.  I  gathered  the  certificates  up  and  hurled  them  to  the  floor.  Innocent  that  I  was, " b"it  hadn't  occurred  to  me  previously  that  these  sweepstakes  things  were  perhaps  arranged  so  that  you  seldom  got  the  prizes  you  really  wanted.  I  am,  however,  grateful  to  the  Robt.  Burns  people,  for  they  have  given  me  an  idea  that  may  bring  me  in  a  steady  supply  of  cigars  before  long.  Brooding  over  my  defeat,  I  suddenly  remem-  bered  that  at  county  fairs  and  at  carni-  vals  you  can  still  win  cigars  by  striking  a  padded  lever  with  a  sledgehammer,  sending  a  metal  projectile  up  a  wire  on  a  tower,  at  the  top  of  which  a  bell  is  affixed.  If  you  ring  the  bell,  you  get  a  cigar.  I  have  instructed  a  travel  agent  to  work  out  an  itinerary  that  will  keep  me  near  fairs  and  carnivals  for  most  of  the  year.  Meanwhile,  I  have  had  one  of  the  devices  built  and  installed  in  my  back  yard,  and  I  practice  with  it  daily.  I  find  itis  quite  a  trick  even  to  hit  the  lever  at  all,  to  say  nothing  of  ringing  the  bell.  I  have  not,  in  fact,  hit  it  yet,  but  I  expect  to  do  so  soon,  and  after  that  it  will  simply  be  a  matter  of  build-  ing  up  strength  and  coordination.  "