 b"THE  wind  is  blustery  this  evening  and  the  last  of  the  daylight  was  gray.  New  snow  is  coming.  It's  the  twenty-seventh  of  December,  if  I'm  right.  I  lose  track.  Five-thirty  on  the  dot,  and  there  they  go  again,  as  they  have  each  night  since  I  arrived  in  this  house  ten  days  back.  The  songs  of  Christmas.  &quot;Hark!  The  Herald  Angels  Sing,&quot;  et  cetera.  That  and  every  other  carol  known  to  Christian  man  will  be  blatting  out  of  that  loudspeaker  in  the  front  yard  from  now  until  eleven.  One  needn't  be  told  to  hark.  What's-  His-  Name-the  caretaker,  the  odd-job  man-drives  by  to  turn  the  machine  on  and  comes  back  later  to  turn  it  off.  When  they're  on,  they  repeat  them-  selves  by  themselves  again  and  again  and  again-an  achievement  of  science.  Yes,  but  what  is  his  name?  I've  been  trying  to  remember  it  all  week.  Atter-  man,  Atterman.  Of  course.  And  there  is  something  else  I  should  know  about  the  carols  and  that  machine,  but  it  escapes  me.  A  great  deal  escapes  me.  For  a  long  while,  it  seemed  that  all  my  memory  was  gone.  The  neighborhood  is  a  caution  now.  It  had  grown  bad  enough  when  Ileft  it.  I've  gone  as  far  as  the  bus-stop  drug-  store  two  or  three  times-that  seems  to  be  my  limit,  my  tether-and  back  up  the  street.  Two  blocks.  It  was  like  run-  ning  a  gantlet.  All  the  little  row  hous-  es-squeezed  together  where  a  field  full  of  goldenrod  used  to  be-have  lost  their  minds.  They  twitch.  Not  a  sober,  steady  light  bulb  in  two  blocks;  all  of  them  blinking  or  popping  or  bubbling.  Christmas  trees,  Santa  Clauses,  angels,  greetings  to  the  firmament,  Holy  Fam-  ilies,  Wise  Men,  and  dwarfs,  on  such  lawn  space  or  house  front  as  there  is.  Plastic  stained  glass  on  the  window-  panes,  reindeer  on  the  roofs.  And  then  you  come  to  this  house.  Room  enough  for  six  of  them  in  its  front  yard  alone.  It's  almost  a  lone  survivor-there's  one  old  red-clapboard-cottage  sort  of  place  across  the  way-and  it  looks  it.  You  come  on  it  and  it's  dark  and  empty  after  that  jumping  street.  (It  is  dark  and  largely  empty,  and  emptiness  changes  a  place.  I  didn't  even  recognize  the  bare  rooms  when  I  first  got  here,  though  now  I  know  that  this  house  was  mine  before  I  passed  away,  as  they  put  it,  two  years  ago.  How  long  was  it  mine?  )  Anyway,  here  it  stands-stuc-  co  and  brick,  fourteen  rooms-on  a  snowy  knoll  in  the  upper  [REDACTED],  with  nothing  but  darkness  back  of  it  where  the  property  slopes  through  scrub  woods  to  the  [REDACTED].  And  the  carols!  They  come  grinding  out  of  that  shielded  yel-  low  contraption  chained  in  the  cor-  ner  of  the  yard,  on  and  on  each  night  without  a  visible  soul  around.  It's  all  eerie.  I  wonder  whose  idea  they  are.  Atterman's?  I  don't  think  so.  Thump,  thump,  thump!  I  wish  that  boy  in  the  back  bedroomwould  quit  bouncing  his  damned  ball.  I  wonder  who  Ae  is.  Knickerbockers!  No  boy  has  dressed  like  that  in  forty  years.  I  talk  too  much,  Italk  to  myself  as  I  am  doing  now.  I  must  pull  myself  to-  gether  and  find  out  more  about  who  I  am  and  how  I  got  here.  I  am  Jeffrey  Lonigan  Barstow-at  least  I  know  that.  The  last  two  years  are  a  blank.  Let  them  go.  You  never  know,  over  here,  what  you're  going  to  be  made  to  remember  or  allowed  to  forget.  How  old  am  I-was  I-again?  Seventy-  five,  and  I  find  it  hard  to  believe.  I  feel  that  I  was  snatched  away  before  my  time.  One  minute  you're  on  a  ladder,  pruning  the  cherry  tree  before  Atter-  man  can  come  and  botch  the  job,  and  the  next  minute  you've  popped  over  to  this  dimension.  Broken  neck.  I  never  felt  it.  But  here  I  remember  only  fragments-trifles-though  perhaps  I  will  outgrow  that.  Apparently  memory  creeps  back,  if  you  apply  yourself.  And  now  I  seem  to  be  assigned  to  my  own  house,  though  who  sent  me  and  what  I'm  supposed  to  do  here,  I  have  no  idea.  This  manifestation  often  seems  at  least  as  weird  as  the  other  one.  Yes,  but  what  did  I  do  on  the  earlier  plane?  I  need  details.  How  was  I  fixed  financially,  for  instance?  Pretty  well,  I  surmise.  And  how  can  I  collect  my  wits  with  that  unholy  mechanical  racket  going  on?  The  people-the  carnates,  corporeals-down  the  block  deserve  it  richly.  I  don't  know  what  they're  cele-  brating;  it  certainly  can't  be  Christmas.  &quot;Oh,  tidings  of  comfort  and  joy,  com-  fort  and  joy,&quot;  indeed!  But  why  should  such  an  inane  jingling  make  me  think  suddenly  of  lilac  bushes?  No,  notbush-  es-a  scent.  My  mother,  I  gues-a  sachet  in  her  linen  closet.  The  smooth  sheets  were  folded  and  lay  in  stacks.  I  liked  to  feel  them,.  The  scent  also  clung  to  her,  and  I  think  I  recall  a  flowery  dress  that  seemed  to  waft  and  float  around  her  in  the  back  yard  of-yes-  this  house,  near  the  woods  and  the  river.  She  played  croquet  with  me  there-pretended  to  play;  I  must  have  been  four  or  five.  I  wonder  why  I  re-  member  her  now.  I  scarcely  knew  her.  I  don't  connect  her  with  Christmas,  but  maybe  I  connect  her  with  joy.  Comfort  and  joy.  Once,  we  sat  on  the  river  wall  and  ate  some  berries  we  had  picked.  I  would  like  to  hold  on  to  the  odor  of  lilac  a  little  longer,  but  it  is  gone.  I  would  rather  it  hadn't  been  brought  to  my  at-  tention  by  that  machine.  Well,  I  have  other  things  to  think  about.  HO  owns  this  house  now?  Did  I  leave  a  will?  Well,  of  course  I  left  a  will,  but  what  did  it  say?  Why  is  the  house  empty?  It  does  get  lonely  here.  I  never  was  much  for  company,  but  I  always  found  plenty  to  do.  I  keep  clear  of  that  boy,  and  he  keeps  clear  of  me.  There's  something  about  him.  But  there  are  others-the  hairy  young  man  in  the  sheepskin  coat  who  pans  the  old,  dry  creek  bed  back  in  the  woods.  Some-  body's  son.  Ran  away  to  the  Klondike  in  '97.  A  neighborhood  scandal  and  sorrow.  He  was  my  hero.  I  probably  " b"should  go  say  hello  to  him,  but  I  won't.  I  doubt  if  he  remembers  me.  Then  there's  the  scruffy  Indian  who  bar-  gains  over  pelts  with  the  Dutchman  in  pantaloons  in  the  drugstore  alley.  The  Dutchman  just  smokes  his  pipe  and  shakes  his  head,  and  after  a  while  the  Indian  stabs  him.  A  re\xc3\xa9nactment.  Nobody  notices  them,  and  they  don't  put  too  much  zip  in  it,  but  at  least  they  have  an  assign-  ment.  I  would  go  down  for  a  chat  with  them,  but  I  never  was  good  at  small  talk.  And  the  pret-  ty,  dark  woman  in  bon-  net  and  shawl,  who  car-  ries  a  bread  knife  and  runs  from  window  to  window  of  that  cottage,  peering  in-she  seems  to  have  her  duties.  I  sup-  pose  I  could  strike  up  an  acquaintance  there,  but  I  don't  like  to.  Privacy  is  privacy,  and  it  works  two  ways.  So  I  rattle  around  in  this  echoing  house  with  some  half-witted  boy  bouncing  a  rubber  ball.  I  need  work-an  assignment,  like  my  neigh-  bors.  Like  Aizz.  Thump,  thump.  Hold  on.  That's  Gilbert.  Awful  little  Gil-  bert,  my  sister  Nettie's  child.  Got  his  comeuppance  in  1920.  Drowned,  butt-  ed  into  the  lily  pond  by  a  goat.  I  al-  ways  thought  well  of  that  animal.  Clank,  whir,  clack-and  on  comes  &quot;Adeste  Fideles.&quot;  It's  in  English,  but  I  used  to  know  the  Latin.  I  wonder  if  I  still  do.  And  I  wonder  why  I  suddenly  see  the  wide  face  of  my  Aunt  Laura  bent  over  me  to  wake  me  one  Christ-  mas  morning.  She  couldn't  wait  for  me  to  wake  on  my  own.  Too  pleased  with  herself.  Well,  well.  Now  I  remember  more  of  her.  She  wanted  to-tried  to-  bring  me  up  after  my  parents  died  of  the  typhoid,  and  that  year  she  was  very  new  at  it.  She  had  taken  a  little  house  for  the  two  of  us.  She  must  have  been  quite  young-a  big  young  librarian  from  [REDACTED].  She  filled  one  of  my  stockings  with  hard-boiled  eggs  and  or-  anges-I  always  was  partial  to  hard-  boiled  eggs-and  hung  it,  and  a  large  spray  of  holly,  on  the  footboard  of  my  bed.  No  tree.  No  carols.  No  toys.  But  I  was  six,  and  that  was  a  good  enough  Christmas.  I  suppose  you  would  have  to  say  she  was  eccentric.  She  was  full  of  crotchets.  She  never  drank  water  without  some  vinegar  in  it-to  cleans  e  it,  she  said,  but  I  think  she  liked  the  taste.  It's  not  bad.  Chewed  her  food  thirty-  two  times,  though  I  don't  think  that's  eccentric.  It's  a  very  good  cure  for  dys-  pepsia.  Aun  t  Laura.  She  had  to  give  up  raising  me,  eventually.  Her  parents  made  her.  They  had  taken  Nettie,  and  they  said  she  and  I  must  be  together,  I  d  on't  know  why.  I  can't  stand  Nettie,  and  I  don't  t  hink  I  e  ver  could.  Aunt  Laura  went  back  to  Neb  raska  alone  and  lived  there  a  ll  alone.  I  never  saw  her  again  .  But  she  taught  me  that  song  in  Latin.  YES,  but  that  is  not  the  kind  of  thing  I  want  to  remember.  What  was  I'  Something  in  real  estate.  My  son  was  with  me,  and  he  hated  it.  Yes,  Marvin,  my  son.  A  real  mummy.  He'd  be  wear-  ing  high,  stiff  collars  if  he  could  find  them.  He  was  always  mistrustful  of  me,  always  watching,  always  trying  to  get  me  to  move  out  of  this  old  house.  I  used  to  suspect  him  of  wanting  it  for  him-  self  and  his  family,  but  then  I  found  out  he  didn't,  and  I  willed  it  to  him.  All  he  wanted  was  to  raise  pecans  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  I  willed  him  the  house  and  the  property  on  condition  it  all  stay  in-  tact.  Any  future  buyer  had  to  agree  to  keep  it  so.  That's  why  it's  empty.  Who  wants  a  big  place  like  this,  up  to  its  neck  in  row  houses?  Of  course!  I'll  be     damned.  And  ten  to  one  Marvin  is  in  [REDACTED]  this  minute,  cracking  nuts  and  worrying  about  selling  it.  But  why  the  carols?  &quot;Above  thy  deep  and  dreamless  sleep,  the  silent  stars  go  by  .  .  .&quot;  That's  one  that  needs  to  be  surrounded  by  si-  lence.  I  guess  it's  the  one  of  them  all  that  I  most  detest  hearing  bellowed.  Lelia  used  to  play  it  on  the  piano.  ...  Why,  yes-Lelia  was  my  wife's  name.  And  now  I  remember  the  year  Marvin  was  twelve.  He  wore  specs  and  was  lumpy  and  clumsy.  He  made  me  a  Christmas  gift  in  his  manual-training  class-a  rack  for  my  razors  and  shav-  ing  mug.  It  was  a  fright.  He  gave  it  a  fretwork  trimming  that  looked  as  if  it  had  been  chewed  into  being  by  mice.  I  said  as  much,  or  something  like  it,  not  supposing  he  was  in  the  room,  and  I  turned,  and  there  he  was,  by  the  Christmas  tree,  his  glasses  shining.  There  was  nothing  I  could  say  to  him.  His  mother  smoothed  it  over  for  both  of  us,  but  I  knew  he  was  trying  not  to  cry  and  so  was  she.  She  was  gentle  and  for-  bearing-and  beautiful,  first  to  last.  She  died-if  that  is  a  proper  word  now-  on  a  snowy  night  like  this  one  twenty-  five  years  ago.  I  wonder  where  she  is.   THAT  braying  out  there  has  no  business  stirring  a  person's  mind  up,  but  it  manages.  Well,  I  don't  want  " b"to  think  about  these  things.  They're  all  done  with.  Long  gone.  I  want  to  think  about  my  will.  Marvin  got  most  of  what  I  had,  and  some  went  to  the  single-tax  society,  and  some  to  the  Union  for  Psychic  Science.  I  could  tell  them  a  thing  or  two.  Thump.  Net-  tie  brought  that  boy  up  poorly,  as  long  as  he  lasted.  For  a  start,  she  might  have  had  his  adenoids  out.  She  lives  there  in  [REDACTED]  with  more  grand-  children  named  after  me  than  you  could  shake  a  stick  at.  Anchors  to  wind-  ward.  Much  good  it  did  them.  None  of  them  gota  plugged  nickel.  But  now  I  wonder  why  I  quarrelled  with  her  in  the  first  place.  I  always  meant  to  patch  it  up,  but  I  never  could  bring  myself  to  it.  She  was  a  pretty  girl,  I'll  give  her  that.  Light  hair.  She  sang  in  church.  &quot;...  On  the  feast  of  Stephen  When  the  snow  lay  round  about  Deep  and  crisp  and  even....&quot;  Yes-oh,  yes.  Deep  and  crisp  and  even  until  it  got  footprints  in  it.  Now  I  seem  to  be  about  to  remember  the  Christmas  Gilbert  wandered  away  from  in  front  of  the  house  and  got  lostin  Van  Cortlandt  Park.  He  was  seven.  They  were  here  on  a  visit.  They  came  often,  while  Grandfather  was  alive.  I  was  a  young  man,  and  for  a  couple  of  hours  I  hunted  for  him  over  there,  slipping  and  stumbling  in  the  snow.  It  was  growing  dark,  and  I  kept  think-  ing  how  terrified  the  boy  must  be.  I  saw  him  on  the  street  as  I  was  coming  back  to  call  the  police.  He  ran  to  me.  He  was  shaking  with  cold  and  fear,  and  I  picked  him  up  and  carried  him     how  soiled  and  thirsty!  Oil  hasseeped  into  the  margins  of  the  ditch  of  standing  water  in  here.  He  felt  little  and  light  for  seven  years  old.  The  night  must  have  seemed  very  large  to  him.  I  guess  that  was  about  the  only  time  I  ever  was  glad  to  see  Gilbert,  but  I  was.  I  do  not  want  to  see  and  feel  these  things.  I  do  not  have  to  be  haunted  by  this  house!  But-Grandfather.  Want  it  or  not,  I  have  thought  of  him  al-  ready,  and  now  no  doubt  more  memo-  ries  will  be  coming.  The  smell  of  his  crooked  stogies,  and  of  the  witch  hazel  he  used  after  shaving-and  I  suppose  a  smell  of  his  own,  and  even  of  the  fields  where  he  liked  to  walk  and  bota-  nize-penetrated  all  his  clothes.  I  en-  joyed  the  mixture.  He  was  tall,  and  I  thought  he  was  powerful,  and  the  aro-  ma  went  with  that.  But  now  I  see  him  in  the  weeks  after  Grandmother  died,  when  he  prowled  this  house  at  night,  as  I  have  been  doing  lately.  He  never  cared  whether  the  lamps  were  lit  or  not.  We  had  Welsbach  mantles.  I  used  to  stand  at  the  dining-room  win-  dow  watching  the  sky  fade  over  the  " b"Palisades,  and  the  lights  of  boats  going  by,  now  and  then,  on  the  river.  Those  twilights  were  long.  Nettie  was  away  at  school.  I  was  in  my  teens,  and  I  didn't  know  how  to  comfort  him  except  by  just  leav-  ing  the  fixtures  unlit  as  long  as  possible  each  night.  He  had  got  into  a  way  of  talking  to  himself,  though  he  was  only  seventy-five.  Sev-  enty-five.  Well,  age  is  a  relative  matter.  Once,  he  came  and  stood  at  the  window  beside  me  without  seeming  to  know  I  was  there.  &quot;Damn  everything,&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  and  then  he  turned  quick-  ly  and  peered  at  me  and  said,  &quot;No-it's  all  right.  Don't  damn  anything.&quot;  He  wan-  dered  away  in  the  dark.  I  watched  him.  He  looked  like  some  kind  of  big,  restless,  shuffling  ghost  with  a  white  mustache.  I  AM  standing  by  that  dining-room  window  again,  as  it  happens.  It  faces  the  river,  but  it  also  overlooks  the  back  yard.  The  thumping  has  stopped.  Can  Gilbert  have  left  me?  Maybe  all  he  needed  was  to  be  remembered  kindly,  more  or  less-to  have  a  few  words  spoken  almost,  you  might  say,  on  his  behalf.  Well,  I  don't  know  quite  where  they  came  from.  So  I'm  alone.  And  I  don't  exactly  need  another  ren-  dition  by  that  box,  though  it  goes  right  on  bringing  things  back.  They  are  also  coming  back  on  their  own,  and  in  a  \xef\xac\x82OOd.  I  can  see  almost  the  whole  yard  in  the  light  reflected  by  the  snow-light  from  the  local  adornments,  maybe,  but  back  here  it  seems  more  like  starlight.  It  hangs  in  the  air.  I  tried  to  teach  Marvin  to  hit  a  baseball,  out  there  be-  yond  the  syringa.  He  swung  like  a  rusty  gate,  and  possibly  so  did  I,  but  I  wanted  him  to  hold  his  own  with  his  friends.  There's  the  summerhouse,  still  standing.  I  used  to  like  to  sit  there  on  warm  weekend  afternoons.  An  ori-  oles'  nest  once  hung  on  the  willow  tree  beside  it.  I  watched  them  building  it  the  spring  Lelia  took  sick-watched  them  and  watched  them,  when  I  wasn't  watching  her.  I  remember-far  back-Japanese  lanterns  down  among  the  trees.  Why  do  these  things  press  in?  It  is  senseless  the  way  incongruous  thingsare  forever  thrown  together.  It  always  has  been,  back  there  as  well  as  here.  The  best  and  worst  side  by  side  and  in  no  order.  Sooner  or  later,  people  would  desert  you-one  way  or  another-if  you  didn't  desert  them  first.  Well,  it  seems  from  this  vantage  point  as  if  I  must  have  deserted.  I  may  not  have  been  as  eccentric  as  Aunt  Laura,  but  I  guess  I  set  out  to  be.  Ec-  centric  is  only  doing  as  you  please.  After  Lelia  died,  I  kept  to  myself,  and  I  did  my  work,  and  I  lived  alone.  Alone  except  for  the  neighborhood  creeping  in,  up  and  up  around  me  like  a  damned  flood-an  wndammed  flood.  Noah's  own.  I  don't  imagine  I  was  liked  by  my  new  neighbors.  I  cer-  tainly  tried  not  to  be.  All  their  neat  little  yards  and  their  neat  little  ways.  Every  little  lawn  curried  like  a  putting  green.  I  once  considered  planting  my  whole  front  yard  in  dandelions.  Mil-  lions  of  seeds.  At  the  least  breath  of  wind.  And,  before  that,  a  solid  sweep  of  bright  yellow.  Absolutely  beautiful.  I'm  rather  sorry  I  let  myself  be  dis-  suaded.  Petitionsfor  this,  contributions  to  that,  community  spirit.  I  kept  a  big  dog  in  the  yard  for  a  while.  And  I  also  ...  Well.  Well,  yes.  Oh,  for  God's  sake,  that  literal  fool  Marvin!  Did  he  think  I  meant  him  to  stake  that  thing  out  there  every  Christmas  season?  Why,  it  was  onlya  little  codicil  to  my  will.  I  was  annoyed  with  the  neighbors,  as  always,  and  I  wanted  to  annoy  them.  They  were  determined  to  get  me  to  takepart  in  their  annual  ritee-put  a  display  out  front,  or  some  such-and  I  hit  on  this  idea.  Deafen  them.  Drive  them  crazy.  I  liked  it  so  well  that  I  tacked  it  right  onto  my  will.  Pure  pique.  What  in  blazes  is  Marvin  think-  ing  of?  Yes,  but  it  is  strange  how  that  mind-  less  cranking  can  bring  so  much  back  in  spite  of  itself  from  beyond  itself.  There  is  more  to  come,  all  right.It  has  only  just  begun.  I  feel  sure  it  will  goon  and  on  until  I  have  remembered  whatever  there  is  to  remember.  Every  inch  of  every  room  in  this  house  will  see  to  that.  I  wonder  if  just  that  is  my  assignment.  It's  enough  for  now.  The  prospect  of  finding  all  of  oneself  is  not  exactly  inviting.  Not  in  my  case.  And  the  oddest  thing  is  how  it  was  all  arranged  for  before  I  got  over  here.  How  IZ  arranged  it.  At  whose  behest?  It  is  very  adroit.  But  if  that's  what  I'm  here  for,  I  might  as  well  get  on  with  it.  I  suppose  it's  a  kind  of  codicil  to  life  on  the  earlier  plane.  I  can  see  the  tool  shed  back  of  the  garage.  And  if  I'm  not  mistaken,  that  is  my  old  ladder  lying  alongside.  Well!  Out  in  " b"all  the  weather-rain,  sleet,  and  snow.  Someone  might  have  shown  a  little  respect.  DECEMBER  28th.  Five-fifteen.  At-  terman's  ahead  of  time.  Com-  ing  in  the  front  entrance.  What  does  he  want  in  here?  He  always  goes  in  the  basement  door,  checks  the  furnace,  det-  onates  the  carols,  and  all  but  runs  away.  Now  he's  trying  the  window  locks.  Pokingaround  everywhere,  looking  back  of  doors.  &quot;Something  funny  going  on,&quot;  he  keeps  muttering.  &quot;I  Zmzow  there's  some-  thing  funny.&quot;  Talks  to  hirmself,  does  he?  He's  go-  ing  down  to  the  basement.  I  think  I'll  just  go  after  him.  &quot;Glad  when  this  goddam  place  is  sold.&quot;  Well,  so  will  I  be.  Maybe  I'll  have  company.  Carnates,  but  company.  &quot;If  it  ever  is.&quot;  Well,  yes.  There's  that.  &quot;Old  man  was  nutty.  Squirrels  should  have  got  him.&quot;  Atterman,  I  could  scare  you  right  out  of  your  britches  if  I  wanted  to.  This  minute.  &quot;Goddam  music  box.&quot;  I  could  howl,  I  could  materialize.  &quot;My  humble  opinion,  he  did  it  for  spite.  My  private  opinion.  People  down  the  street,  they  love  it.&quot;  They  what?  &quot;Grateful.  My  hat.  'Thoughtful  and  kind.  Lovely  Christmas  music.  Adds  so  much.  Like  a  kind  of  memorial.&quot;  &quot;  So.  Atterman  makes  me  sick.  I'm  going  back  to  the  dining  room.  I  am  back  iz  the  dining  room  already,  just  by  thinking  of  it.  That's  a  handy  phenomenon.  Oh,  my!  I  almost  wish  Gilbert  were  still  around,  but  he's  gone.  Everyone's  gone.  And  here  we  are  again-Atterman  hightailing  it  to  his  car,  and  the  memorial  Christmas  con-  cert  starting  up  once  more.  &quot;Joy  to  the  world  .  ..&quot; "