 b"AS  they  were  about  to  leave,  Chou  A  began  jumping  and  barking.  John  put  his  hand  to  his  face;  he  had  forgotten  to  do  his  exercises  with  the  weighted  shoe-a  red  steel  shoe  with  a  bar  and  weight  attachment.  He  felt  he  had  better  do  the  exercises  while  he  had  the  energy.  Lately  he  was  always  tired,  but  he  would  be  particu-  larly  tired  when  he  came  home.  So  he  put  theleash  down  on  the  chair  in  the  hall  and  went  into  his  bedroom  and  tied  the  shoe-itweighed  about  twelve  pounds-to  his  foot,  and  then,  sit-  ting  in  a  chair,  he  began  to  bend  and  straighten  his  leg;  he  would  start  out  with  his  leg  hanging  down  in  a  normal  position,  and  then  he  would  raise  it  hori-  zontal  to  the  floor  and  hold  it  stiffly  for  as  long  as  he  could  stand  it.  He  repeated  this  about  thirty  times.  It  was  to  strengthen  his  knee  and  thigh.  The  muscles  had  atrophied  badly,  and  his  leg  was  quite  weak.  Chou,  sitting  in  the  doorway,  watched  him;  she  barked  at  him  from  time  to  time.  She  was  irri-  tated  and  confused.  He'd  promised  to  take  her  out,  and  now  he  was  delaying  again,  and  she  probably  wouldn't  get  to  go.  Chou  was  John's  mother's  dog,  a  gray,  long-faced  toy  poodle  with  sad  eyes.  She  was  three  years  old.  Since  he  had  come  back  from  the  hospital,  they  had  spent  quite  a  lot  of  time  together  in  the  house  and  had  become  depend-  ent  on  each  other  for  company.  But  for  Chou,  and  Bessie,  the  maid,  who  worked  days,  he  was  alone.  His  par-  ents  were  in  Europe  and  his  sister  was  away  at  school.  Chou  followed  him  everywhere.  While  he  ate  in  the  dining  room,  she  would  remain  at  his  feet  under  the  table.  If  he  read  the  paper  in  the  living  room,  she  would  jump  up  beside  him  on  the  chair.  She  hated  to  be  alone,  and  he  welcomed  her  com-  pany.  They  had  a  game.  When  she  wanted  to  play,  she  would  approach  his  chair  with  a  small,  yellow  woollen  cat  in  her  mouth.  He  would  take  the  cat  and  toss  it  across  the  room,  and  she'd  streak  off  and  pounce  on  it,  slamming  it  from  side  to  side  on  the  floor,  then,  crouching,  look  at  him.  &quot;Chou,  bring  it  back,&quot;  he'd  say,  but  she  would  run  into  one  bedroom  or  another  with  the  cat  in  her  mouth,  crawl  under  a  bed,  and  wait  for  him  to  find  her.  The  game  was  more  hide-and-seek  than  retriev-  ing.  It  gave  her  agreat  deal  of  excite-  ment  and  pleasure,  and  she  never  tired  of  it.  But  after  twenty  minutes  of  look-  ing  under  beds,  he  was  too  exhausted  to  go  on,  and  he  would  have  to  go  to  his  room  and  lie  down  for  an  hour.  She  would  lie  at  his  feet.  He  had  broken  his  leg  in  two  places.  The  cast,  which  had  gone  above  his  knee,  had  now  been  off  for  ten  days.  He  had  worn  it  for  three  months.  Aside  from  the  itching  under  the  cast,  he  had  not  been  in  great  discomfort  or  pain.  &quot;Come  on,  Chou,&quot;  he  said,  unty-  ing  the  weighted  shoe.  He  didn't  really  want  to  take  her,  but  he  felt  sorry  for  her.  He  knew  she  wanted  to  go  into  the  fields  and  woods.  Between  the  time  his  parents  had  gone  to  Europe  and  he  had  come  home,  Chou  had  been  boarded  in  a  kennel  outside  Washing-  ton,  and  after  she  was  brought  back  to  the  house,  she  had  never  got  to  go  outbut  for  two  brief  walks  a  day  with  Bessie,  a  tall,  hefty,  mocha-brown-  skinned  Negro,  who  invariably  said  to  her,  &quot;Let's  go,  Chou.  Do  your  business.  I  got  my  work  to  do.&quot;  Bessie  called  her  a  &quot;little  garbage  hustler.&quot;  Chou  would  often  dawdle  with  Bessie  until  she  had  got  her  ration  of  smells.  &quot;Aw,  come  on,  honey,&quot;  Bessie  would  say.  &quot;We  ain't  got  all  day.&quot;  Chou  had  been  angry  with  him  earlier  in  the  week  when  he  had  gone  out  several  times  and  left  her  behind.  He  had  feared  the  responsibility,  and  anyway  he  had  wanted  to  take  a  drive  and  be  alone.  If  he  took  her,  something  could  always  happen.  He  was  afraid  that  somehow  he'd  lose  her,  that  she  would  run  away  and  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  find  her  again.  Little  things  upset  him;  he  needed  all  of  his  energy  to  concentrate  on  his  driving.  But  when  he  drove  into  Alexandria,  knowing  that  she  dearly  loved  it  there,  he  had  felt  cruel  and  sorry-though  he  desperately  wanted  to  be  alone.  When  he  returned,  instead  of  the  wild  greeting  he  had  come  to  depend  on,she  had  looked  annoyed,  and  ignored  him.  It  was  strange  how  much  he  depended  on  her.  When  he  wasn't  with  her,  he  thought  about  her,  trying  to  give  his  mind  something  to  hold  on  to.  She  was  a  little  mystery  to  him.  Anything  out  of  the  ordinary  offend-  ed  her,  and  she  was  very  unfriendly  toward  strange-looking  people  or  very  old  people,  and  there  was  one  sadly  retarded  girl  that  she  had  barked  at  with  great  angerone  morning  when  the  girl  had  tried  to  pet  her.  Children  loved  her,  and  she  endured  them.  While  they  played  with  her,  she  would  sometimes  look  at  him  as  if  to  say,  &quot;You     53  never  please  me,  but  can't  you  at  least  make  them  go  away?&quot;  He  was  very  fond  of  her-of  her  sad  eyes  and  strange  moods.  JOHN  put  on  a  brown  sports  coat  with  a  rip  in  the  elbow.  Under  the  coat,  he  wore  a  blue  sweater  over  a  faded  blue  shirt  with  a  frayed  collar.  He  looked  out  the  window.  The  day  was  sunny  and  clear-a  fine  autumn  day  in  [REDACTED].  He  always  pre-  ferredthe  autumn,  and  normally  the  blue  crispness  of  the  day  would  have  filled  him  with  delight.  But  he  was  tired  and  despondent,  and  he  was  going  out  mainly  for  Chou.  She  was  panting  to  go.  He  wore  an  old  pair  of  gray  pants  with  a  tear  in  the  knee.  These  were  the  pants  he  had  worn  on  the  day,  three  months  before,  when  he'd  broken  his  leg.  He  had  been  walking  on  a  trail  in  Rock  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  high  above  a  ravine,  and  then,  while  climb-  ing  up  a  rocky  ledge  overlooking  the  ravine,  he  had  suddenly  fallen.  Later,  in  the  hospital,  he  felt  that  he'd  just  lost  his  concentration,  that  he  had  been  too  careless,  but  it  troubled  him  that  he  couldn't  remember  whether  he'd  just  slipped,  whether  some  loose  rock  had  given  way,  or  whether  he  had  just  stepped  out  and  found  nothing  there.  It  hadn't  been  a  bad  fall-the  slope  was  not,  after  the  first  fifteen  feet,  steeply  graded,  and  some  trees  broke  his  pitching,  rolling  descent-  and  he  would  have  been  all  right  but  for  a  few  bruises  and  scratches  had  it  not  been  for  his  collision  with  a  fallen  tree  trunk  at  the  bottom.  He  had  lain  there  in  considerable  pain  for  two  hours  in  a  soft  bed  of  leaves,  until  a  woman  on  horseback  came  along  a  bridle  path  above  the  trail  and  saw  him,.  An  hour  later,  he  was  carried  out  of  the  park  on  a  stretcher  and  placed  in  an  ambulance.  A  week  before  the  fall,  two  of  his  oldest  and  closest  friends,  Ewing  and  Hal,  had  been  killed  in  43616e616461Carolina  in  a  nighttime  automobile  accident.  John  was  supposed  to  have  gone  with  them  on  the  tripto  [REDACTED],  where  Ewing's  girl  friend  was  to  have  fixed  Haland  him  up  with  blind  dates,  but  John  had  come  down  with  a  bad  cold  and  had  remained  in  [REDACTED].  He  picked  up  a  book  that  was  on  his  dresser  and  put  it  in  the  pocket  of  his  coat.  Chou  jumped  up  on  the  bed,  jumped  down,  and  began  to  bark.  He  felt  a  little  dizzy.  For  the  last  months,  he'd  had  trouble  concentrating;  he  had  to  do  everything  slowly.  His  memory     " b"was  unreliable,  and  he  was  often  con-  fused.  There  seemed  to  be  a  weight  on  his  head  that  made  him  want  to  close  his  eyes.  He  tried  not  to  think  of  Ewing  and  Hal,  of  death  in  general,  of  his  own  death,  of  not  being  with  them  when  they  died,  but  he  would  always  remember  them-in  a  slight  daze,  in  cold  hysteria-at  different  times  of  the  day.  He  often  found  it  difficult  to  breathe.  As  he  felt  for  the  book  in  his  pocket,  he  suddenly  thought  of  them,  and  he  said,  with  a  slightly  hoarse  and  tired  voice,  &quot;Oh,  Lord,  I  don't  want  to  die.&quot;  He  looked  down  at  Chou,  and  he  felt  he  had  been  alone  too  much.  He  was  eighteen,  about  six  feet  tall,  frail,  loose  and  gangling,  with  a  long  face  and  a  wide,  full  mouth.  His  ex-  pression  was  tentative  and  shy.  He  lit  a  cigarette,  and  then  he  picked  up  the  leash  from  the  chair  in  the  hall.  Chou  was  right  at  his  heels.  He  said  good-  bye  to  Bessie,  and  he  and  the  dog  walked  outside  and  got  into  his  father's  car.  Allthe  way  to  the  park,  Chou  stood  up  on  the  seat,  with  her  front  paws  on  the  rim  of  the  window.  T  hadn't  rained  for  a  while.  When  John  pulled  into  a  dirt  lot,  the  tire  ruts  were  deep  and  hard.  He  didn't  want  to  get  out  of  the  car,  and  he  sat  there  leaning  on  the  steering  wheel  for  a  few  minutes,  with  Chou  pawing  at  the  sleeve  of  his  coat,  and  looked  out.  Beyond  the  lot  was  a  grassy  field,  with  the  creek  to  the  left  of  a  row  of  trees.  Farther  on,  there  was  a  small  tributary  of  the  creek  which  divided  the  field  from  a  wooded  hill.  Up  the  hill  was  the  trail  that  led  to  the  ravine  where  het  had  broken  his  leg.  He  would  stay  away  from  the  trail.  The  day  had  turned  faintly  warm  in  the  autumn  sunlight.  The  trees  on  top  of  the  hill  were  yellow  and  russet  and  brown.  He  gotout  of  the  car  and  went  around  it  and  opened  the  door  on  the  other  side.  Chou  jumped  down,  wag-  ging  her  tail.  &quot;O.K.,  Chou,  come  on,&quot;  he  said.  He  took  the  leash,  and  they  walked  across  the  dirt  lot  until  they  came  to  a  low  wooden  rail,  which  he  stepped  over;  Chou  went  underneath.  When  he  stepped  onto  that  sunny  field,  he  felt  at  a  loss.  Chou  suddenly  seemed  very  timid,  and  he  felt  inade-  quate  as  a  master.  It  was  the  first  time  that  he  had  been  on  foot  in  the  park  since  he  had  broken  his  leg.  He  felt  strange,  and  he  nearly  got  back  into  the  car.  Then,  in  some  desperation,  he  swung  his  arm  toward  the  empty  field and  said,  &quot;Run,  Chou,  run!,&quot;  but  she  only  stood  there  looking  up  at  him,  wagging  her  tail.  She  was  waiting  for  him.  The  sun  was  in  her  eyes,  and  they  were  half  closed  and  slightly  watery.  She  had  a  nearsighted  quality.  She  looked  irritated.  She  didn't  like  to  stand  very  long  in  one  spot.  He  began  to  walk  across  the  field,  and  she  followed  him.  He  felt  that  she  wanted  him  to  be  a  certain  way  on  their  walk  together,  but  he  couldn't  seem  to  manage  it.  His  leg  bothered  him;  he  walked  slowly  and  dragged  it  somewhat.  He  looked  back  at  Chou,  who  was  coming  slowly,  in  her  earnest  little  trot.  She  looked  so  small,  he  thought.  She  looked  bigger  in  the  house;  here  she  hardly  rose  above  the  grass.  In  the  house,  though  sad-eyed,  she  was  frisky  and  playful,  but  out  in  the  field  she  was  quite  timid  and  un-  certain.  She  wasn't  enjoying  herself,  and  he  felt  it  was  his  fault.  &quot;Run,  Chou,  run.  For  God's  sake!&quot;he  yelled  at  her.  She  stood  closeto  him,  looking  away  at  something,  as  though  distract-  ed,  then  gave  him  a  quick  glance.  &quot;Oh,  God,  leave  me  alone,&quot;  he  said.  He  began  to  walk.  She  dawdled  behind,  sniffing  at  the  ground.  His  leg  hurt  and  he  wanted  to  sit  down,  and  he  was  walking  only  to  give  her  some  exercise.  She  didn't  seem  interested,  but  he  knew  if  he  sat  down  on  a  bench  she  would  look  at  him  accusingly.  She  lingered,  moving  in  slow  half  circles  behind  him.  When  he  turned  around,  she  stopped  and  sat  down.  He  told  her  to  come  on,  but  she  wanted  to  go  in  another  direc-  tion-nearer  the  creek,  where  perhaps  the  smells  were  better.  It  was  too  far;  he  didn't  want  to  go  that  far.  He  called  her.  She  looked  up  at  him,  baring  her  front  teeth  a  trifle,  then  looked  quickly  in  the  direction  of  the  creek.  He  called  to  her  again,  but  she  wouldn't  come,  and  then  he  turned  around  and  walked  away.  He  knew  she  wouldn't  go  by  herself.  He  didn't  want  to  take  her  to  the  creek.  Too  much  could  happen  there.  She  might  have  one  of  her  wild  fits,  he  thought.  She  padded  along  behind  him,  looking  hurt  and  bewildered.  He  felt  exasper-  ated,  and  he  yelled  toher,  &quot;Chou,  it's  nothing  personal!  So  stop  acting  silly!&quot;  But  she  only  looked  down  at  the  ground,  as  though  preoccupied  with  a  smell  or  a  piece  of  the  terrain.  Sud-  denly,  she  began  to  bark  ata  squirrel;  she  streaked  across  the  field  and  chased  it  over  the  small  wooden  bridge  that  crossed  the  tributary.  The  squirrel  ran  up  a  tree,  with  Chou  barking  at  it  be-  low.  Chou's  spirits  improved.  She  came     " b"trotting  back  with  her  tongue  out  and  stood  up  with  her  front  paws  on  his  knee  and  stretched,  and  he  decided  to  take  her  to  the  creek  after  all.  HEY  walked  along  together.  Chou  followed  him  quickly  now,  along  a  bridle  path  covered  with  fallen  leaves  that  led  under  an  old  stone  bridge  to  the  bank  of  the  creek.  They  passed  an  old  mill.  Chou  could  hear  ducks,  and  she  began  to  bark  in  a  near  frenzy.  He  put  the  leash  on  her,  for  he  was  afraid  she  might  follow  them  into  the  water-something  she  had  done  the  year  before,  he  suddenly  remembered,  when  Hal  and  Ewing  were  along.  He  wondered  if  she  remembered  them.  Chou  was  straining  at  the  leash,  stand-  ing  on  her  back  legs.  Quacking,  the  ducks  quickly  left  the  wet  ground  at  the  water's  edge  and  paddled  down  the  creek  toward  the  falls.  There  were  white  ducks  and  mallards,  green  heads  and  speckled.  Chou  was  disappointed.  She  kept  barking  at  the  ducks,  but  they  receded  farther  and  farther.  John  watched  them  float  down-  stream.  Around  the  bend  of  the  creek-  about  a  mile  farther  on,  he  remem-  bered-there  was  the  sledding  hill,  a  marvellous  slope  that  Hal  and  Ewing  and  he  had  used  during  one  rare  snowy  Wash-  ington  winter.  He  thought  ofthe  time  they  had  all  gone  down  the  slope  on  their  sleds,  coasting  onto  the  ice-  covered  creek.  'They  had  called  it  the  Dan-  ger  Run.  The  idea  was  to  test  courage,  to  see  how  far  out  toward  the  thin  ice  they'd  go  be-  fore  turning.  Hal  had  gone  part  way  through  the  ice.  They  had  all  been  about  eleven  then.  John  and  Ewing  had  got  in  trouble  with  Hal's  mother  for  hav-  ing  persuaded  him  to  go  sledding  right  after  he  had  recovered  from  influenza,  andHal  had  got  wet  and  ruined  his  new  coat.  It  seemed  like  such  a  rotten  joke  now,  her  worrying  about  that,  he  thought.  He  put  a  hand  over  his  eyes.  Chou  strained  on  the  leash,  and  he  looked  down  at  her;  then  he  took  a  deep  breath,  and  began  to  sink  deeper  into  reverie.  All  sound  and  sight  were  blotted  out  as  he  stood  im-  mobile  on  the  creekside.  He  could  see  them  in  his  mind's  eye  so  clearly.  Ewing,  always  smiling  and  joking,  had  raised  their  spirits.  Hal  was  very  serious,  almost  solemn  in  a  way,  and  he  de-  pended  on  Ewing  and  John  to  make  him  laugh;  he  was  verykind  and  hon-  est  and  dependable.  They  had  all  been  just  like  brothers.  They'd  played  base-  ball  together  in  the  various  boy  leagues,  right  up  to  Legion  ball.  Ewing  was  very  erraticin  the  field  and  at  bat,  but  liable  to  stun  you  with  something  ab-  solutely  sensational,  and  Hal  was  steady  and  reliable,  while  John,  on  the  other  hand,  was  a  little  like  Ewing  but  not  as  good.  He  began  to  think  of  the  time  when  they  were  thirteen,  and  he  was  always  infights  and  regularly  getting  the  worst  of  it,  particularly  from  a  boy  named  Allie  Conroy,  who  was  a  year  older.  Conroy  would  wait  for  him  and  fight  him  on  the  playground  after  school.  Ewing  and  Hal,  for  the  sake  of  his  honor,  would  never  interfere,  but  after  they  had  witnessed  several  humiliations,  they  took  him  to  see  a  colored  man  named  Soames  Hambleton-or  Ham-  by,  as  he  was  known.  He  was  a  tall,     copper-brown-skinned  man  with  high  cheekbones.  He  looked  a  little  like  an  Indian,  and  he  was  supposed  to  have  been  a  pro  fighter,  but  he  was  then  working  as  a  mechanic  in  a  garage.  They  all  went  down  to  the  garage  and  persuaded  Hamby  to  teach  John  how  to  fight  Allie  Conroy.  During  the  instruc-  tion,  Ewing  said,  smiling,  &quot;Now,  come  on,  Hamby,  don't  beat  him  too  bad.  Johnny's  beat  up  enough  already.&quot;  Hal  was  very  serious  through  all  of  it.  &quot;Run  through  it  all  again,  Hamby,&quot;  he'd  said.  &quot;Conroy's  bigger  and  strong-  er  and  has  got  the  reach.&quot;  Hamby  was  very  nice.  He  had  taught  John  all  the  moves  and  defenses.  He  had  said  to  him,  &quot;Well,  son,  I'mgonna  show  you  how  to  cut  a  bigger  boy  down  to  size,  how  to  slip  a  jab  and  get  inside  and  get  to  his  body,  and  then  when  he  drops  his  hands,  how  to  go  for  his  head,  how  to  hook  off  a  jab,  and  how  to  move  away  and  how  to  move  in,  how  to  glide  and  shuffle,  and  how  not  to  think  too  much  about  getting  hurt  so  you  won't  waste  your  strength  worrying.&quot;  Later  on,  John  had  beaten  Conroy  badly,  much  to  everyone's  surprise,  and  afterward  the  three  of  them  had  gone  down  to  see  Hamby  at  the  garage,  and  they'd  had  sandwiches  together  and  celebrated.  &quot;See,  you  just  listen  to  old  Hamby,&quot;  Hamby  had  said.  &quot;He's  been  around  some.&quot;  Hamby  died  a  year  later  of  a  heart  attack.  He  was  about  sixty-  five,  it  was  thought,  but  Mr.  Travis,  the  owner  of  the  garage  where  he  worked,  said,  &quot;It's  hard  to  tell  the  age  of  a  colored  man.  They  don't  age  like  white  people.&quot;  He  andHal  and  Ewing  wanted  to  go  to  the  funeral.  Mr.  Travis  said  he'd  let  them  know  about  the  arrangements.  Hal's  mother  thought  it  wasn't  right  for  white  boys  to  go  to  a  colored  man's  funeral-a  man  that  didn't  work  for  you.  The  colored  peo-  ple,  she  said,  wouldn't  like  it-they'd  resent  it.  But  John  and  the  two  others  disagreed  with  her,  for,  as  Ewing  said,  &quot;Hamby  wouldn't  mind,  and  that's  all  that     " b"really  matters.&quot;  It  turned  out,as  far  as  they  knew,  that  Hamby  didn't  even  have  a  funeral.  Mr.  Travis  told  them  that  Hamby's  &quot;nephew  or  someone&quot;  claimed  the  body  at  the  hospital  and  had  him  buried  on  practically  the  same  day,  but  he  didn't  know  where.  It  seemed  that  Hamby  hadno  family,  really-that  his  wife  had  run  off  about  twenty  yearsbefore  and  his  children,  grown  now,were  probably  somewhere  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;Well,  he  sure  was  one  fine  colored  man,&quot;  Mr.  Travis  had  said,  and  they  had  certainly  agreed.  \xe2\x80\x98  N  Z  HEN  these  impressions  stopped,  John  felt  very  strange  and  light,  as  though  he  were  still  fourteen.  He  felt  disoriented,  and  had  to  stand  there  awhile  to  get  his  bearings.  Chou  was  a  small,  gray  blur  at  first,  butgradually  became  clear.  She  was  lying  on  her  stomach  patiently  watching  the  creek.  He  hoped  he  could  concentrate  on  her  and  not  think  about  anything  else.  Thinking  of  the  past  confused  and  frightened  him.  It  upset  him  to  drift  away  like  that  and  then  come  back  feel-  ing  strange  and  lost.  He  thought  if  he  could  just  keep  his  mind  on  her,  he'd  be  all  right.  Chou  puther  front  paws  on  his  knees.  The  ducks  had  left  for     good.  On  the  way  back  to  the  field,  he  let  her  chase  some  squirrels.  By  the  time  they  passed  the  mill  near  the  bridge,  she  was  thoroughly  hot  and  tired  and  thirsty.  Her  tongue  was  hanging  out,  and  her  eyes  were  almost  completely  closed.  He  toldher,  &quot;O.K.,  Chou.  We'll  get  some  water.&quot;  He  had  a  slight  desire  to  go  into  the  old  mill,  to  see  what  it  would  be  like  to  stand  there  again;  he  had  played  there  when  he  was  a  boy.  The  plaque  on  the  outside  of  the  mill  said  it  was  built  in  1801.  But  he  passed  up  going  inside.  He  and  Chou  went  across  the  lot  to  the  car  to  see  if  her  spare  dish  was  there,  but  he  couldn't  find  it.  Then  they  walked  across  again  to  a  small  stone  drinking  fountain.  He  tried  the  spigot  that  ex-  tended  from  the  base,  but  it  didn't     " b" work.  Then  he  cupped  his  hands  and  filled  them  with  water  from  the  drink-  ing  spout  and  stooped  down  and  of-  fered  the  water  to  Chou.  She  didn't  want  any.  &quot;Damn  it,  Chou,  come  on,&quot;  he  said.  The  water  leaked  out  through  his  hands,  and  he  stood  up  and  got  a  drink  himself;  then  he  refilled  his  hands  with  water  and  kneeled  down  again.  She  took  a  little,  licking  his  hand,  but  most  of  the  water  leaked  out  again.  He  was  very  tired.  His  leg  hurt.  It  had  been  fairly  warm,  but  the  sun  had  dropped  low  in  the  sky;  there  were  many  long  shadows  now,  and  there  was  a  cool  breeze.  He  wanted  to  sit  down  and  rest,  and  he  walked  to  a  bench  that  was  still  in  the  sun.  Chou  trotted  along  beside  him.  She  was  in  a  wonderful  mood,  very  alert  and  serene.  He  sat  down  on  the  bench-a  rough-  slatted  picnic  bench-and  lit  a  cigarette.  Then  he  put  the  leash  on  Chou,  who  sat  at  his  feet,  and  looped  it  around  his  arm.  He  pulled  the  book  out  of  the  side  pocket  of  his  coat.  He  had  bought  the  book  in  a  drugstore  that  morning-he  didn't  really  know  why.  It  was  called  &quot;Suicide  in  Scandinavia.&quot;  He  thought  he  was  curious  about  the  suicidal  state  of  mind.  He  flipped  through  the  pages,  reading  at  random.  Chou  sat  quietly,  looking  up  at  him  occasionally.  He  read  some  case  histories  of  suicides  and  became  quite  despondent.  Oh,  God,  he  thought,  I  hope  I  never  get  that  low;  I  don't  want  to  die.  After  a  while,  he  closed  his  book,  putting  his  hands  over  his  eyes.  &quot;Jesus,  I  hope  I  never  kill  my-  self,&quot;  he  said  out  loud.  He  began  to  feel  very  warm  and  strange,  and  his  heart  began  to  beat  rapidly.  He  tried  to  stand  up,  but  he  fell  back  down  on  the  bench.  &quot;Oh,  damn  it  to  hell!  The  hell  with  it,&quot;  he  said.  A  shudder  passed  through  him.  He  thought  of  Ewing  and  Hal.  If  you  could  die  that  way,  just  out  one  day  and  gone,  then  what  was  the  point  of  living?  He  began  to  breathe  hard,  and,  after  a  kind  of  convulsion,  he  turned  his  back  on  Chou  and  put  his  arms  on  the  back  of  the  bench,  He  shut  his  eyes  very  tight,  then  opened  them  and  stared  at  the  sleeve  of  his  coat.  Gradually,  his  breathing  became  calm-  er,  until  it  appeared  to  be  so  even  and  regular  that  he  scarcely  seemed  to  be  breathing  at  all.  Their  -deaths  had  finally  registered.  It  was  true.  They  were  dead  forever,.  NTER  nearly  half  an  hour,  John  raised  his  head  and  turned  around.  He  wondered  if  anyone  had  seen  him,  but  the  park  was  empty.  It  was  very  quiet  except  for  the  sound  of  an  occasional  car  going  across  the  bridge  over  the  creek,  the  &quot;caw,  caw&quot;  of  a  crow,  and  the  sound  of  leaves  blowing  across  the  grass.  He'd  go  out  and  see  them  tomorrow,  he  thought.  They  were  in  different  cemeteries,  at  opposite  ends  of  town,  and  he  would  start  out  early  in  the  morning.  He  sat  there  and  looked  at  the  woods.  Chou  was  anxious  to  go  home.  She  put  her  paws  on  his  knees  and,  yawn-  ing,  looked  toward  the  car.  Leaning  forward,  he  tookher  leash  off  and  yelled,  &quot;Run,  Chou,  run',&quot;  and  she  ran  off  in  a  streak,  cutting  sharply  to  the  right  and  throwing  herself  into  a  pile  of  leaves,  then  jumping  up  and  shaking  them  off.  She  rolled  on  the  grass,  then  jumped  up  and  went  after  a  squirrel  again.  &quot;Come  on!&quot;  he  called.  Eagerly,  she  ran  back  to  him.  He  put  the  leash  on  her,  and  they  began  to  walk  to  the  car.  After  a  few  steps,  he  turned  around  and  looked  at  the  park  again.  The  field  was  in  a  gray,  dusky  light.  Farther  on,  the  woods  were  in  dark-  ness;  he  couldn't  make  out  the  trees.  He  smelled  leaves  burning.  He  could  see  the  light  ofa  small  fire  and  a  man  with  a  rake.  He  looked  down  at  Chou  and  thought,  She's  a  veryhonest  little  dog.  When  she  knows  I'm  leaving  for  school,  she'll  ignore  me.  When  she  sees  my  suitcase,  it's  all  over.  She  won't  grieve.  He  thought  there  was  no  one  better  at  hello  and  poorer  at  goodbye.  When  John  opened  the  door,  Chou  jumped  right  up  on  the  seat.  He  started  the  car,  and  as  he  drove  across  the  bridge,  Chou  stood  up  at  the  window  for  a  final  look  at  thecreek,  which,  in  the  fast-fading  light,  could  hardly  be  seen."