 b"FROM  time  to  time,  here  in  Cos  FCob,  I  receive  missives  from  a  young  semi-employed  actor  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  who  seems  to  have  the  misfortune  to  have  been  born  just  a  little  too  early  forthe  guaranteed  annual  wage  and  quite  a  bit  too  late  for  the  freewheeling  artistic  days  of  the  cinquecento.  Dear  Frank:  How  are  all  the  tired  Eastern  lib-  erals?  That  was  really  terrific,  buddy-  I  mean,  you  spotting  me  in  that  old  &quot;Kildare&quot;  rerun.  Did  you  notice  how  I  played  it?  The  cigarette  bit  was  to  suggest  undischarged  aggression.  Massey  didn't  know  what  hit  him  in  that  scene.  Nothing  much  is  changed  out  here.  Well,  of  course  we  did  get  a  new  governor,  and  now  everybody  is  saying  that  in  his  heart  he's  really  one  of  us  and  he  didn't  mean  all  those  things  he  said.  After  watching  him  in  &quot;The  Last  Outpost,&quot;  &quot;Knute  Rockne-All  556e6974656420537461746573n,&quot;  and  &quot;Storm  Warning&quot;  in  a  pre-inaugural  film  fes-  tival  on  Super  Channel  9  the  other  night,  I'm  waiting  for  a  statement  that  he  didn't  mean  it  as  an  actor,  either.  I  hope  you  had  a  happy  holiday  sea-  son.  Myself,  I  was  a  little  short  on  bread.  Bread!  I  was  short  on  lettuce,  mayonnaise,  luncheon  meat,  Fritos,  and  Diet  Pepsi.  And  I  especially  want-  ed  to  get  Bibi  a  really  up-the-pole  gift.  I  looked  through  my  pockets  and  all  I  had  was  a  buck  eighty-seven  and  a  chipped  Delano  Grape  Strike  button.  I  know  the  whole  giftie  bit  is  for  Grant  Wood  copouts  and  all,  but  maybe  the  little  foxes  are  laying  it  down  right  when  they  demand  tangible  proof  from  MARS  (Man  Assuming  Role  of  Spouse)  that  he  reallycares.  What  caused  the  big  dollar  drain  was  I  went  into  this  real  acting  slump.  The  demand  just  seemed  to  dry  up  for  short  young  actors  who  look  like  the  early  Chester  Morris  (from  my  choco-  late  side,  anyway).  Finally,  I  was  pen-  cilled  in  last  month  for  a  bit  in  a  test-  pilot  for  a  sitch-com  at  Desilu.  It  quicklyaborted.  Another  three  weeks  went  by  before  I  got  this  job  imper-  sonating  a  leprechaun  for  a  Yuletide  commersh  for  &quot;Irish  Bob&quot;  MacNa-  mara's  Ford  place  (&quot;You  need  a  hun-  dred  dollars  and  your  good  name&quot;).  It's  over  on  Los  Feliz.  He  used  to  have  a  firm  policy  of  no  Sunday  selling  but  he  gave  it  up.  God  is  dead.  The  fuel  pump  on  my  Falcon  was  out,  so  I  had  to  walk  over  there,  We  were  to  do  about  eighteen  live  commercials  that  brutally  interrupt  the  Scary  Show,  which  begins  out  here  at  midnight.  To  make  the  scene  I  had  to  walk  down  [REDACTED]  Blvd.  in  my  Lit-  tle  People  gear.  The  Saturday-night  freakers  were  all  out,  and  the  fuzz  glommed  onto  me  like  sharks  on  fresh  chum.  They  beseeched  identification  to  prove  I'm  old  enough  to  be  out  late.  I'm  twenty-six,  and  though  I  may  not  look  twenty-six  in  fairyfolk  rig,  I  sure  look  eighteen.  It's  just  their  way  to  get  a  look  into  your  wallet.  Anyway,  I  had  to  stand  in  a  line  with  all  the  other  freakers  while  they  made  sure  we  had  papers  from  [REDACTED],  and  I  missed  the  first  three  teleblurbs  at  Irish  Bob's  Auto  City.  There  was  some  dispute  about  how  much  I  was  to  be  paid,  or  wheth-  er,  and  it  has  all  been  placed  under  ar-  bitration  with  the  Screen  Actors'  Guild  and  locked  in  the  archives  until  about  the  year  2008.  I  got  so  desperate  I  thought  of  sell-  ing  stock  in  myself.  Some  super-hippie  from  the  local  underground  press  tried  that,  you  know.  This  guy  was  a  sit-  down  guest  on  the  Jerry  Pulver  inter-  view  &amp;  insult  show,  appearing  between  a  ufologist  who  took  a  three-hour  ride  over  the  mythical  little  kingdom  of  Orange  County  in  a  Venutian  spaceship  and  a  lady  chiropractor  who  hit  ahorse  on  the  freeway  and  couldn't  get  any  satisfaction  out  of  its  owner.  Pulver  told  this  original  who  was  selling  himself  he  was  a  lazy  beatnik  bum  and  should  go  gargle  with  razor  blades.  The  way  I  see  it,  this  hippie  can  get  away  with  a  bubble  like  that  because  he's  a  writer.  People  always  believe  in  writers,  even  if  they  can't  write  for  free  seeds.  An  actor,  they  can  see  he  can't  act.  HEN,  in  the  nick  of  time,  I  land-  ed  a  situation  in  a  Christmas-tree  lot  just  north  of  Fountain  on  Vine.  (At  least  it  beat  hauling  mail,  with  all  those  eager  schnauzers  at  your  calves  while  you  juggle  your  twenty-four  copies  of  Life's  big  holiday  issue.)  I  was  hiding  in  that  iridescent  copse  one  night  (they  had  only  three  chlorophyll-green  trees,  the  way  Smokey  the  Bear  likes  them)  when  my  Chinese  buddy,  Ros-  coe  Yi,  came  by  on  the  way  to  a  secret  freak-in,  featuring  Frank  Zappa's  Mothers  of  Invention.  He  was  wearing  a  &quot;No  War  Toys&quot;  sweatshirt,  a  gau-  cho  hat,  clamdiggers,  granny  glasses,  and  bare  feet.  He  had  his  costume  in  a  shopping  bag  and  he  was  going  to  stop  off  at  his  pad  and  put  it  on.  (I  think  I  told  you  about  Roscoe  in  one  of  my  other  letters.  He's  a  hot-dog  surfer  and  he  used  to  be  real  wigged  on  Zen.  Bibi  and  I  met  him  up  at  Esalen  in  one  of  the  basic-encounter  groups.  He's  now  fronting  for  a  force  called  Yellow  Power.  Roscoe  says  your  average  first-  and  second-generation  Chinese  are  a  bunch  of  Uncle  Wongs,  toadying  to  the  white  power  \xc3\xa9lite.  He  calls  Whit-  eys  Big  Noses  and  says  we  smell  of  butter.  I  told  him  I  probably  smell  more  like  the  lower-priced  spread.  I  think  he  likes  me,  and  maybe  I'll  be  spared  when  the  Mandate  of  Heaven  comes,  or  the  thousand  flowers  bloom,  or  whatever.  Roscoe's  an  O.K.  guy,  but  there  are  times  when  his  cooler-  than-thou  attitude  really  bugs  me.)  Well,  in  an  expansive  mood,  I  gave  him  one  of  the  plain  green  trees,  manu-  factured  the  old  way  by  Mother  Isis  and  photosynthesis,  explained  to  him  how  it  was  a  druidical  symbol,  and  told  him  to  go  to  the  freak-in  asa  forest  deity  of  immemorial  Cathay.  Worse  luck,  the  entrepreneur  of  this  sylvan  desecration,  this  dendroid  knacker's  yard,  a  pathetic  pre-McLuhan  type  with  absolutely  no  tactile  and  kinetic  depth  perception,  saw  me  not  collect  for  his  balsam.  Roscoe  was  an  absolute  mind-bending  Yule  psych-out  as  he  floated  down  Vine  with  that  boscage  over  his  shoulder,  but  old  Titus  Moody  was  unmoved.  I  was  cashiered  out  of  hand.  Given  the  old  push.  The  chance  of  Bibi  getting  anything  for  Christmas,  at  least  of  a  commercial  nature,  was  becoming  a  definitely  short-  odds  proposition  when  Thalia  smiled  on  me  and  I  landed  a  spot  at  scale  ($105)  on  the  Sol  Morton  show.  They  hired  me  to  drive  this  red  Camaro  con-  vert  with  two-plus-two  and  a  four-  speed  stick.  The  show  is  taped  in  the  afternoon,  so  I  trotted  over  to  the  studio  about  one-thirty.  Morton  is  a  kind  of  permanent  established  floating  undergrad  who  rotten-eggs  the  power  structure  for  a  living,  which  is  so  good  he  makes  more  than  most  people  in  the  power  structure.  His  uniform  is  a  gooseneck  jersey,  wide-wale  corduroys,  garrison  belt,  and  sandals.  He  gets  on  the  blackboard  and  classifies  everything  from  movie  to  motorcars  as  Left  Wing,  Social  Democrat,  or  Fascist.  He's  a  bit  ofa  masochist,  but  I  pick  up  " b"what  he  lays  dow  n.  Of  course  I  don't  agree  wit  h  e  veryt  h  ing  he  says,  but  then  again,  when  you  get  right  down  to  the  nitty-gritty  I  don't  agree  with  every-  thing  Z  say,  either.  During  the  show,  he  keeps  putting  little  agitprop  signs  on  his  desk  reading  &quot;EDITORIAL,&quot;  &quot;AT-  TACK!,&quot;  &quot;AMERICA  IS  AT  STAKE!,&quot;  &quot;no  MERCY.&quot;  Or  he'll  say,  &quot;So  once  again  [REDACTED]  is  depraved.  Con-  science-stricken  liberals  trying  to  pay  off  their  guilt.  Does  anybody  care?  Is  anybody  listening?&quot;  Bibi  thinks  he's  out  of  sight.  The  women  really  groove  on  his  music.  Morton's  got  this  real  collector's  bag  about  cars.  He's  a  Berenson  of  Bugattis.  He  owns  three  cars  and  a  bike  and  he's  always  rhapsodizing  about  how  many  seconds  he  can  do  a  quarter  mile  inin  his  427  Cobra,  or  how  it  has  a  weight  distribution  of  48/52,  etc.  Anyway,  this  is  where  I  come  in.  I'm  to  drive  this  Camaro  out  in  front  of  " b"Camera  3  when  I  get  the  wave  from  the  director,  and  Sol  is  then  going  to  talk  about  how  it's  got  350  cubes  with  295  horses,  and  classify  it  asto  corner-  ing,  handling,  acceleration,  and  political  philosophy.  There's  a  whole  panzer  division  of  vehicles  in  the  studio.  Bar-  racudas,  Sting  Rays,  Furies,  Invictas,  Tempests,  Porsches,  dune  buggies,  and  bikes-Hondas,  Yamahas,  Kawasakis.  I've  only  worked  a  stick  shift  a  few  times,  so  I  got  a  quick  checkout  from  this  asst.-prod.  before  we  went  on.  When  I  got  the  high  sign,  I  pushed  the  tach  up  to  5500,  so  I  could  lay  a  little  rubber.  That  wasn't  in  the  script,  but  I  like  to  flesh  out  my  parts.  Anyway,  when  I  popped  the  clutch,  it  turns  out  this  monster  was  in  reverse  instead  of  low,  and  I  went  like  a  bomb  through  the  studio  wall  behind  me,  continuing  on  a  collision  course  with  a  desk  where  some  bush-league  Brinkley  was  warm-  ing  up  for  his  news  show.  (This  should  settle  that  old  argument  asto  whether  TV  reports  news  or  makes  news.)  Meanwhile,  some  other  poor  schlepp,  who  was  revving  up  a  trail  bike  off-  camera,  got  so  psyched  that  he  took  off  into  the  audience  and  did  a  real  wipeout  in  the  middle  of  all  the  good  people  in  their  undertaker  chairs.  The  producer  said  I'll  never  work  again  in  this  town.  Again?  The  next  day  I  felt  like  1d  been  folded,  spindled,  and  mutilated,  but  there  wasn't  any  serious  damage  to  my  corpus.  My  paycheck  was  submit-  ted  to  arbitration  between  Channel  12  and  SAG  prexy  Charlton  Heston.  Both  sides  agreed  to  a  thirty-day  cooling-off  period,  with  a  no-wage-escalation  rider  conforming  to  anti-inflation  guidelines.  HE  next  day  I  ran  into  Roscoe  at  Schwab's  and  we  went  over  to  the  studio  for  a  look.  We  got  a  wholebunch  of  objets  trouv\xc3\xa9s,  including  some  pieces  of  tail-light  and  backup  glass,  a  wind-  shield,  a  wind  wing,  a  Camaro  ident  emblem,  two  wheel  covers,  a  license  plate,  a  sideview  mirror,  an  MG  jacket  patch,  an  Italian  driving  glove,  a  St.  Christopher  medal,  two  desk  drawers,  a  handlebar,  tailpipe,  and  headlamp  from  a  trail  bike,  a  cycle  helmet,  a  pair  of  goggles,  three  busted  metal  chairs,  a  comb,  and  a  pack  of  Kools.  Roscoe  welded  and  pasted  it  all  together,  en-  livened  the  total  statement  by  spraying  it  with  cans  of  orange,  silver,  green,  gold,  and  red  vinyl,  and  came  up  with  a  real  winging  stabile,  which  he  calls  &quot;Christ-  mas  in  the  Year  of  the  Peanut  Butter  Conspiracy.&quot;  Roscoe  presented  it  to  me.  He  never  keeps  anything  he's  finished.  His  idol  is  Li  Po,  who  used  to  write  exquisite  poems  and  then  sail  them  down  the  Yangtze.  I  gave  it  to  Bibi  for  Christ-  mas.  She  liked  it.  I  mean  really  liked  it.  The  only  thing  was  we  had  to  rip  out  the  doorframe  of  her  pad  to  de-  liver  it,  so  now  she's  sort  of  living  in  a  breezeway.  What  I  like  about  Bibi,  she  knows  damn  well  that  an  authentic  Roscoe  Yi  in  ten  years  or  so  is  going  to  be  worth  con-  servatively  about  a  nickel,  but  she  loved  that  piece.  Two  days  later,  though,  I  came  by  her  place  and  it  was  gone.  The  fuzzies  had  called  and  expropriated  it.  They  said  it  was  needed  for  evidence  by  the  insurance  company  in  the  Case  of  the  Great  Studio  Deconstruction.  Fourteen  of  the  women  in  the  audience  claimed  they  got  a  backlash  from  being  struck  by  the  party  of  the  second  part  on  that  cycle.  (Six  of  them  were  at  home  at  the  time.)  I  also  have  to  appear  in  Superior  Court  Room 27  to  give  evi-  dence,  for  which  there  is  no  pay  in  this  best  of  all  possible  worlds.  Christmas  Eve  I  went  down  to  [REDACTED]  Ranch  Market  and  lifted  two  Swanson's  chicken  TV  dinners  (&quot;Trust  Swanson&quot;  is  their  slogan)  and  a  bottle  of  Thunderbird,  which  Bibi  and  I  made  do  for  a  bird  and  a  bottle.  It  tasted  good,  and  what's  more  I  don't  ever  intend  to  pay  them  back,  no  matter  how  big  I  make  it.  Sentiments  distingu\xc3\xa9s,  Race "