 b"THE  boots  are  not  authe  ntic,&quot;  I  says  M.  Monnerot.  &quot;Authentic  boots  must  exist  somewhere,  but  I  have  neve  r  found  them-at  least  not  in  my  size.  Everything  else  seems  real.  &quot;  He  stands  with  his  hands  on  his  hips,  scowling  at  himself  in  the  glass.  He  wears  the  uniform  of  a  Waffen  S.S.  superior  officer,  but  the  effect  is  patchy,  and  for  a  good  reason-the  components  of  the  uniform  were  bought  separately.  Willi  has  no  emotional  feeling  about  the  uniform  whatsoever,  but  his  sense  of  order  is  offended  by  the  decorations.  No  soldier  could  poss  ibly  have  been  simul-  tancously  on  so  many  fronts,  and  if  you  look  closely  you  can  see  that  some  of  the  ribbons  are  not  even  German.  M.  Monnerot  is  an  impostor,  though  he  looks  impressive.  Next  to  him,  a  man  in  civilian  clothes  appears  ridicu-  lous.  Willi,  the  civilian,  looks  as  if  he  ex-  ercised  some  marginal  trade,  such  as  photographing  tourists  as  they  come  out  of  the  Louvre,  or  asking  thirty  s  elect-  ed  families  how  often  they  clean  their  shoes;  but  he  is  a  trans-  lator,  entrusted  with  dif  ficult  and  often  se-  cret  texts,  at  the  rate  of  eleven  centimes  a  word.  M.  Monnerot  is  small  of  eye;  he  pulls  the  cap  sideways  and  down  so  that  his  gaze  is  shadowed.  Accord-  ing  to  one  of  the  de-  tectives  who  have  been  following  him  (his  wife  is  tr  ying  to  obtain  evi-  dence  for  a  divorce),  he  is  handsomer  in  uni-  form  than  Himmler,  whose  picture  hangs  on  the  wall,  but  not  nearly  s  o  effective  as  Hey-  drich,  who  strides  be-  side  Himmler.  Hey-  drich's  greatcoat  swirl  s,  his  arm  swings;  the  whole  sense  of  the  pic-  ture  seems  to  be  m  en-  ace  and  movement.  He  wears  a  sword.  M.  Monnerot  is  on  the  lookout  for  one  like  it.  Swords  are  easy  enough  to  find,  but  every  time  he  buys  one  he  com-  pares  it  with  the  photo-  graph  and  some  detail  seems  at  fault.  Could  it  be  that  Heydrich  had  a  sword  specially  made  for  himself?  Wi  lli,  questioned,  shakes  his  head.  It  could  be  true;  it  seems  to  him  that  during  his  childhood  in  Ger-  man  y  he  heard  opposing  opinions-for  instance,  his  mother  believed  that  very  high-up  Party  members  spent  rather  a  lot  on  their  own  adornment,  but  his  father  knew  better,  and  maintained  that  every  pfennig  of  tax  collected  was  somehow  or  other  returned  to  the  people.  Upon  M.  Monnerot's  table,  folded,  are  two  red,  b  lack,  and  white  flags.  One  came  from  the  Flea  Market,  where  several  merchants  now  make  a  specialty  of  Nazi  souvenirs,  and  is  said  to  have  flown  high  in  [REDACTED].  There  is  no  way  of  proving  it,  but  as  it  may  have  come  such  a  long  way,  he  paid  more  for  it  than  he  would  have  for  any  of  the  others.  He  turns  to  Willi  and  says,  &quot;I  am  not  blaming  you,  but  I  don't  think  the  flag  you  sold  me  is  authentic.&quot;  Of  course  it  is  not.  When  Willi  was  asked  for  a  fla  g  he  said  they  only  existed  in  films;  and  when  M.  Mon-       nerot  insisted,  first  wheedl  ing,  then  raising  his  price  to  three  hundred  francs,  Willi  went  to  the  Bon  March\xc3\xa9  department  store  and  bought  red,  black,  and  white  bunting  and  made  a  passable  flag.  His  first  try  was  nearly  a  failure-  he  had  his  swastika  running  counter-  clockwise.  He  had  to  unstitch  it  and  sew  it  twice.  He  soaked  the  fla  g  in  salt  water  and  let  it  dry,  then  dipped  the  flag,  folded,  into  a  solution  of  Javelle  water.  Thus,  battle-marked  and  travel-  marked,  the  flag  was  welcomed  by  M.  Monnerot,  and  envie  d  by  some  of  his  friends,  who  a  re  also  collectors.  &quot;The  size  of  the  swastika  seems  wrong,&quot;  M.  Monnerot  now  complains.  &quot;I  don't  know  why,  but  when  you  compare  it  with  some  others-a  friend  of  mine  pointed  it  out  to  me.&quot;  Willi  says  solemnly,  &quot;The  [REDACTED]  flag  must  have  been  made  after  1942.  In  1942  the  size  was  standardized,  Now  you  have  one  of  each.&quot;  &quot;You  are  right,&quot;  says  M.  Mon-  nerot.  &quot;I  have  one  of  each.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98  N  7  1111  would  like  to  share  this  joke  with  someone,  but  with  whom?  He  is  in  the  confidence  of  M.  Mon-  nerot's  wife,  and  knows  she  is  having  her  husband  followed.  She  is  hoping  to  catch  him  at  something,  but  so  far  he  has  been  careful:  he  has  never  stayed  out  over-  night,  and  never  brought  a  woman  into  his  house-he  knows  better.  &quot;I  respect  my  wife,&quot;  he  has  often  told  Willi,  &quot;and  her  part  of  my  life  is  sacred.&quot;  Willi  knows  that  although  Mme.  Monnerot  might  enjoy  the  story  about  the  flag  she  could  make  trouble  for  Willi  later  on.  She  might  be  so  enraged  to  think  of  her  husband  spending  money  foolish-  ly  that  she  could  not  re-  sist  telling  him.  Willi  knows,  from  experience,  that  mortal  enemies  often  end  up  in  each  other's  arms.  Also,  if  M.  Monnerot  keeps  his  mistress  out  of  his  home,  it  is  simply  because  she  has  a  place  of  her  own,  Rue  du  Commerce.  Part  of  the  detective's  report  describes  how  M.  Mon-  nerot  has  to  fight  for  parking  space  on  that  busy  street-how  he  tries  to  intimidate  his  oppo-  " b"nent  without  actually  coming  to  blows.  He  becomes  so  red  in  the  face  that  the  author  of  the  reportthinks  he  might  die  of  a  stroke  one  of  thesedays.  Willi  knows  more  than  the  detective,  but  he  keeps  his  information  to  himself.  Per-  haps  he  could  sell  what  he  knows-but  no;  the  truth  is,  he  doesn't  trust  any  of  these  people  an  inch.  He  has  seen  the  latest  report,  which  begins,  &quot;The  situation  has  not  changed.  M.  Monnerot  leaves  his  office  on  the  stroke  of  twelve  and,  after  fetching  his  car  in  the  garage  behind  the  Made-  leine,  drives  in  the  thick  of  midday  traf-  fic  to  the  corner  of  the  Avenue  Emile  Zola  and  the  Rue  du  Commerce.  As  he  can  never  find  a  place  along  the  curb,  he  leaves  his  Ariane  double-  and  even  triple-parked  while  he  buys  two  small  filet  steaks,  or  one  lean  entre-  cote.  At  the  greengrocer  hebuys  two  apples  or  two  bananas.  Occasionally  he  omits  the  fruit  and  walks  half  a  block  to  buy  two  vanilla  yoghurts.  He  pays  cash  everywhere  and  is  not  known  to  have  any  debts.  Recently  he  obtained  control  of  a  dry-cleaning  establishment,  Rue  du  Commerce,  which  he  wanted  to  name  Mon  Pressing.  However  as  there  are  four  establishments  by  that  name  in  the  telephone  book  he  has  changed  his  mind,  and  the  sign  now  reads  Pressing  Brigitte.  M.  Monnerot  has  avalid  reason  for  his  daily  trips  to  the  Emile  Zola-Rue  du  Commerce  area  of  the  city.&quot;  Willi  could  add  that  the  apartment  on  the  Rue  du  Commerce  where  M.  Monnerot  has  his  share  of  the  steak,  fruit,  or  yoghurt  was  occupied  from  May  to  July  by  Fraulein  Ilse  ([REDACTED])  Bauer,  born  of  a  French  corporal  with  the  Army  of  Occupation  and  a  seven-  teen-year-old  German  bilingual  stenog-  rapher,  in  Coblenz,  May  5th,  1947.  Before  taking  up  residence  in  the  Rue  du  Commerce,  [REDACTED]  was  au  pair  cook,  housemaid,  laundress,  and  gov-  erness  in  the  home  of  M.  and  Mme.  Laurent,  their  daughters  Chantal  and  Eliane,  baby  Charles,  and  gray  poodle  Tisane.  [REDACTED]  had  a  room  on  the  sixth  floor  of  the  apartment  building,  along  with  the  servants  working  for  other  families,  and  students  to  whom  the  rooms  were  rented  at  two  hundred  francs  a  month.  Some  rooms  contained  clandestine  Spanish  families,  one  mem-  ber  of  which-wife,  sister,  fianc\xc3\xa9e-  was  employed  as  a  maid,  and  who,  by  means  of  mattresses  piled  in  the  day-  time  and  distributed  on  the  floor  at  night,  was  able  to  house  four  or  five  persons  in  a  room  already  filled  by  a  single  bed,  a  chair,  and  a  wardrobe.  The  students  have  their  meals  at  the university  restaurants,  and  the  space  taken  in  the  Spanish  rooms  by  alcohol  stoves  and  saucepans  is  devoted,  in  their  chambers,  to  a  record-player  and  the  records  of  Jacques  Brel,  Georges  Bras-  sens,  Barbara,  Guy  B\xc3\xa9art,  and  Bob  Dylan.  Although  she  was  nauseated  by  the  smell  of  cooking  oil  from  the  Spanish  quarters,  and  disturbed  by  the  records  in  the  students'  rooms,[REDACTED]  spent  her  evenings  upstairs.  'The  Laurents  had  never  invited  her  to  share  their  televi-  sion.  Because  her  mother  had  borne  her  at  the  age  of  seventeen,  [REDACTED]  was  afraid  to  go  out  alone  until  after  her  eighteenth  birthday.  Once  another  girl  took  her  to  the  Select,  in  Mont-  parnasse,  where  she  met  Willi.  She  told  him  about  the  Laurents,  and  that  on  the  sixthfloor  there  was  one  toilet,  Turkish  style,  without  a  lock,  and  one  basin  with  a  cold-water  tap,  and  that  her  favorite  poet  was  Lamartine.  Willi  advised  her  to  go  home  to  Coblenz.  She  said  she  couldnot  until  she  had  learned  enough  French  to  become  a  bi-  lingual  stenographer;  her  mother  had  married  a  man  who  was  interested  in  [REDACTED],  and  (showing  off  her  French)  she  was  de  trop  at  home.  On  her  eighteenth  birthday,  her  French  hosts  invited  her  to  watch  a  film  on  television.  The  program  was  already  under  way  when  she  arrived.  She  slipped  into  a  chair.  Eliane  and  Chantal  sat  cross-legged  on  the  floor,  rapt,  though  the  white  wobbling  square  on  the  lower  left-hand  corner  of  the  screen  was  an  official  warning  that  the  program  was  not  recommended  for  children.  M.  and  Mme.  Laurent  did  not  turn  their  heads  when  [REDACTED]  en-  tered  the  room.  [REDACTED]  was  extremely  puzzled  and  depressed  by  the  film,  which  had  no  action  whatever,  but  showed  ugly,  unkempt,  naked  women  standing  in  a  field  of  tall  grass,  in  a  disorderly  queue.  She  believed  it  at  first  to  be  a  film  about  prehistoric  peo-  ple;  she  thought  it  could  be  some  lost  tribe  in  a  jungle,  perhaps  in  South  [REDACTED].  The  jumpy  light  and  abrupt  camera  movements  suggested  the  scene  had  been  filmed  from  the  wrong  dis-  tance,  and  byanamateur.  Presently  the  image  changed  to  an  abstract  de-  sign  of  white  faintly  striated  in  gray,  which,  when  the  picture  became  sharp-  er,  was  seen  to  bea  pile  of  bodies.  As  [REDACTED]  half  rose  from  her  chair,  M.  and  Mme.  Laurent  swung  away  from  the  screen.  She  saw  their  profiles,  then  their  faces.  Mme.  Laurent  said  bitterly,  " b"&quot;You  did  this,&quot;  and  her  husband  said,  &quot;If  it  wasn't  you,  it  was  your  father.&quot;  [REDACTED]  left  the  room,  ran  down  the  stairs,  and  walked  in  the  spring  night  as  far  as  the  Trocad\xc3\xa9ro.  The  fountains  were  playing.  A  number  of  tourists  took  pictures  of  the  Eiffel  Tower  and  the  lighted  water.  M.  Monnerot,  who  was  on  his  way  to  dine  with  a  friend  from  out  of  town  at  Le  Petit  Marguery,  and  had  stopped  at  the  Trocad\xc3\xa9ro  to  admire  the  view,  discovered  [REDACTED]  without  her  purse,  without  her  coat,  without  her  identity  card  or  passport,  and  without  a  key  to  get  back  into  the  Laurents'  apartment  house.  She  was  weeping  bitterly.  After  a  short  conversation  during  which  she  shook  her  head  sev-  eral  times,  she  joined  the  two  men  for  dinner.  The  apartment  on  the  Rue  du  Com-  merce-as  Mme.  Monnerot  knows-  was  bought,  as  an  investment,  by  M.  Monnerot's  unmarried  sister,  who  liv  es  i  n  Lyon  and  never  goes  near  the  place.  Nevertheless,  the  telephone  is  i  n  h  er  name,  and  the  gas,  ligh  t,  and  water  (though  the  bills  are  paid  by  successive  tenan  t  s)  are  in  her  name,  too.  No  ten-  ant  h  as  eve  r  been  given  a  le  ase  to  sign,  and  the  concierge  is  b  ribed.  [REDACTED]  moved  in  as  one  more  incarnation  of     M.  Monnerot's  sister.  The  arrange-  ment  lasted  less  than  two  months.  Fraulein  Bauer  was  frightened  by  M.  Monnerot-no  one  knows  why.  She  made  the  mistake  of  calling  M.  Mon-  nerot  at  his  office,  and  the  greater  mis-  take  of  calling  him  at  his  home.  That  telephone  call  was,  in  fact,  the  begin-  ning  of  Mme.  Monnerot's  suspicions,  and  the  reason  she  began  receiv-  ing  detectives'  reports.  By  the  time  the  detectives  began  working,  however,  [REDACTED]  had  disappeared.  Someone  told  Willi  she  was  seen  with  a  suitcase  around  the  Gare  de  Est.  Perhaps  she  followed  his  advice  and  went  home.  The  official  report  knows  only  this:  &quot;M.  Monnerot's  sister's  apartment  is  occupied  by  Mlle.  Brigitte  Vander-  plank,  who  is  a  French  citizen.  Mile.  Vanderplank  works  for  a  wholesale  " b"dress  firm  as  hostess  and  model  when  coats  and  dresses  are  shown  to  buyers  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED].  She  is  twenty-four,  and  speaks  French,  Flemish,  and  several  German  dialects.  It  is  to  her  apartment  that  M.  Monnerot  takes  his  daily  steak,  et  cetera.  Sometimes  he  and  Mlle.  Van-  derplank  meet  and  shop  together.  In  thatcase  she  chooses  the  food  and  he  pays.  He  sometimes  allows  her  to  drive.  When  the  car  is  parked  to  his  satisfac-  tion  he  rushes  to  open  the  door  for  Mlle.  Vanderplank,  helps  her  out,  and  kisses  her  hand.  M.  Monnerot  has  told  a  few  friends  that  he  is  on  close  terms  with  a  young  countess  who  belongs  to  a  family  from  the  northern  part  of  [REDACTED].  Mlle.  Vanderplank  wears  an  apple-green  suit  and  white  shoes.  She  carries  a  white  purse  with  a  gold  chain.  She  has  been  described  variously  as  Sexquisite,'  'undernourished,'  'common,&quot;  'distinguished,'  but  all  are  agreed  that  she  has  blond  hair.  M.  Monnerot  has  told  Mlle.  Vanderplank  that  he  was  a  secret  agent  in  the  last  war,  and  also  with  the  paratroops.  Mlle.  Vander-  plank  has  been  heard  to  say  that  her  landlady's  brother  (as  she  correctly  describes  him)  is  a  decent  citizen;  his  patriotism  is  unquestioned;  he  believes  in  republican  institutions;  he  detests  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns,  the  British,  the  Russians,  the  Chinese,  and  he  despises  the  Ger-  mans  for  having  been  defeated  in  the  last  war.  Some  time  ago  Mile.  Vander-  plank  asked  for  a  lease  'to  show  her  parents,&quot;  who,  she  said,  were  concerned  about  her  housing  arrangements.  M.  Monnerot  drew  up  a  lease,  and  filled  out  several  'receipts'  for  the  monthly  rent.  Mlle.  Vanderplank  had  the  lease  and  receipts  photocopied  in  the  presence  of  two  trusted  friends,  one  of  them  a  solicitor,  and  returned  the  originals  to  M.  Monnerot,  who  tore  them  up.&quot;  6  HAT  do  you  think?&quot;  said  Mme.  Monnerot  when  Willi  had  read  the  report.  Willi  seems  to  her  the  very  bastion  of  common  sense.  He  may  be  ready  to  sacrifice  his  principles,  but  no  one  can  say  what  his  principles  are.  He  does  not  appear  venal.  He  is  extremely  discreet,  and  no  trouble  to  women.  Willi  sticks  to  the  information  in  the  report.  He  speaks  like  a  rational  ma-  chine.  He  tells  her  that,  one,  M.  Mon-  nerot  has  not  committed  an  offense  that  can  be  proved.  Two,  she  has  no  grounds  for  a  divorce.  Three,  Mlle.  Vanderplank  is  the  legal  tenant  of  the  apartment  (though  the  landlady's  brother  has  yet  to  discover  this)  and  has  photocopies  of  receipts. &quot;Is  there  anything  you  know  and  are  not  telling  me?&quot;  she  pleads.  &quot;No,&quot;  says  Willi.  &quot;All  I  have  is  an  enlarged  photograph  of  an  officer's  sword,  which  he  said  he  wanted.&quot;  &quot;Then  nothing  can  ever  change,&quot;  says  Mme.  Monnerot.  &quot;No,  nothing,&quot;  says  Willi,  which  might  be  the  expression  of  a  more  general  belief.  &quot;He  is  odious,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Why  do  you  waste  time  doing  favors  for  him?&quot;  &quot;Oh-you  know,&quot;  says  Willi  vaguely.  He  thinks  to  himself,  One,  I  need  the  money.  Two,  it  stops  him  from  nagging.  Three,  I  am  not  sure;  I  must  be  expecting  something.  Expecting  what?  He  sees  the  faked  flag,  the  dead  decorations,  the  symbols  counterclockwise,  and  feels  bewildered,  as  if  he  had  been  given  permission  to  laugh.  &quot;Tell  him,&quot;  he  says,  and  breaks  down.  He  cannot  stop  laughing.  It  is  disgraceful;  he  sees  Mme.  Monnerot  is  offended.  He  cannot  stop,  and  begins  to  weep.  &quot;'Tell  him,&quot;  he  says,  when  he  can  draw  breath,  &quot;tell  him  I'll  look  forthe  boots.&quot; "