 b"(ANOTHER  FRIGHTFUL  BLOODLETTING  IN  THE  BACK  ALLEYS  OF  THE  &quot;NEW  YORK  REVIEW  OF  BOOKS&quot;  To  the  Editors:  OTHING  could  be  more  flat-  N  tering  to  a  scholar  than  to  have  a  work  of  his  reviewed  by  so  eminent  an  expert  as  Hermann  Kron-  stadt,  but  candor  forces  me  to  confess  a  total  lack  of  surprise  when  I  discov-  ered  that  Professor  Kronstadt  had  in  fact  barely  bothered  to  read  my  little  exegesis  of  &quot;A  Visit  from  St.  Nicholas&quot;  (Clement  Moore  and  the  Pre-K  eynesi-  an  Apocalypse,  Pottawattamie  A  .  &amp;  M.  Univ.  Press,  $15)  but  had  chosen  in-  stead  merely  to  add  some  footnotes  to  his  own  tediously  celebrated  post-  Freudian  studies  of  the  sexually  feudal-  istic  substratum  in  American  children's  books-a  lode  that  so  clearly  ran  out  in  the  early  chapters  of  his  recent  Wyn\xc3\xa9-  en,  Blynken  and  Nod's  Narrenschiff  :  Anal  Archetypes  on  a  Sea  of  Guilt.  If  this  were  all,  I  would  remain  silent,  for  students  of  Victorian  Americana  have  long  since  discovered  that  Professor  Kronstadt  thinks  he  has  the  horse-and-  buggy  Christmas  safely  locked  away  in  his  own  curious  clinic;  he  is  the  Mo-  lochian  lump  of  coalthat  lies  at  the  bot-  tom  of  every  young  scholar's  stocking.  But  Herr  Kronstadt  has  gone  too  far  in  his  ill-tempered  review  in  your  col-  umns,  for  he  has  not  only  obdurately  refused  to  accept  the  Ding  an  sich  of  my  modest  postulates  but  has  launched  on  a  course  of  reckless  misinterpretation  and  misquotation  that  I  can  only  re-  gard  as  intentional.  To  paraphrase  his  testy  penultimate  aphorism  (&quot;If  Ber-  trand  Russell  is  not  H\xc3\xa9lderlin,  Dr.  Swiggett  is  certainly  not  Karl  Mann-  heim&quot;),  I  would  murmur  that  though  I  am  not  Mannheim,  Professor  Kron-  stadt  may  be  more  of  a  Nietzsche  than  even  he  or  Max  Weber  would  care  to  admit!  To  be  specific.  I  did  notnot  suggest,  or  even  fail  to  suggest,  that  the  &quot;Mama  in  her  kerchief  and  I  in  my  cap&quot;  mise  en  scene  contained  a  &quot;swaddled,  nun-  like  repression  of  Clement  Moore's  un-  acceptably  ravening  id.&quot;  I  would  not  agree  with  this  irresponsible  bit  of  wild-  fire  hermeneutics  even  if  I  had  thought  of  it  myself.  Careful  readers  of  my  book  will  remember  that  my  only  com-  ments  on  these  early  lines  of  the  poem  were  those  expatiating  upon  the  pro-  found  sadness  of  doomed  Zlaissezx-faire  capitalism  as  sounded  in  the  &quot;visions  of  sugarplums  danced  through  their  heads&quot;  (die  Entzauberung  der  Zucker-  pfaume,  in  my  phrase)  image,  plus,  a  bit  later,  my  chapter  dealing  with  the  unbidden  but  frighteningly  intrusive  noises  emanating  from  the  overworked  New  England  textile  factories,  and  the  concomitant  din  of  rising  industrial  Jacobinism,  that  break  in  upon  the  nar-  rator's  long  Victorian  sleep:  &quot;When out  on  the  lawn  there  arose  such  a  clatter  ...&quot;  I  think  it  is  typical  of  Professor  Kronstadt's  well-known  vendetta  style  of  criticism  that  he  should  concentrate  in  his  review  upon  my  careless  but  en-  tirely  insignificant  omission  of  Pranc-  er  from  the  list  of  the  reindeer  (Why  did  I  not  omit  the  equally  androgynous  Cupid  or  Dancer,  Herr  Kronstadt?  ),  while  he  neglects  all  mention  of  my  fruitful  propositio,  first  suggested  to  me  by  Dietrich  Maltby  at  the  Determin-  ism  Workshop  of  1961,  that  &quot;Dasher,  Dancer,  Prancer  &amp;  Vixen  /Comet,  Cu-  pid,  Donder  &amp;  Blitzen&quot;  are,  in  fact,  evidence  of  Clement  Moore's  desper-  ate  need  for  economic  reassurance  and  moral  book-balancing  in  atime  of  stress,  through  the  agency  of  the  sudden  ar-  rival  of  two  thinly  disguised  Wall  Street  law  firms  on  his  rooftop.  I  have  further  reservations,  equally  documented,  about  Professor  Kron-  stadt's  anti-critical  fugue,  but  I  will  sup-  press  them,  if  only  in  deference  to  the  happy  season.  Thesewould  include  an  anguished  protest  against  his  charge  that  I  have  &quot;failed  utterly  to  deal  with  Moore's  infantilistic  anti-Semitism  as  seen  in  the  transliteration  and  apotheo-  sis  of  'that  good  Protestant  clubman  called  St.  Nicholas'  out  of  the  blatantly  obvious  paradigm  of  the  Wandering  Jew  known  as  Claus;&quot;  I  deal  with  precisely  that  problem  in  my  footnote  on  the  &quot;he  looked  like  a  pedlar  just  opening  his  pack&quot;  metaphor,  and  later,  at  further  length,  in  my  discussion  of  the  inflationary  rise  of  St.  Nick  up  the  chimney  after  the  dividend  distribution  on  the  hearth,  and  the  mysterious  but  unmistakably  Faginesque  gesture  &quot;laying  his  finger  aside  of  his  nose.&quot;  (J.  S.  W.  Hogwought  and  P.  Rabbitt  both  sug-  gest  that  this  digital  kinesis  descends  from  the  Hasidic  finger-ritual  yodh-  zahim,  but  I  am  dubious.)  Professor  Kronstadt  evidently  failed  to  read  that  far  in  my  book.  That  failure,  so  typical  of  those  who  continue  to  refuse  to  come  to  terms  with  the  giant  problem  of  the  undistributed  middle,  disqualifies  him  as  a  Leavisite,  or  even  as  a  backwoods  Hobbesian,  and  certainly  as  a  critic  worthy  of  your  pages.  Geoffrey  Palamore  Swiggett  Pottawattamie  A.  &amp;  M.  University  Cornflake,  [REDACTED]  Hermann  Kronstadt  rep/ifes:  I  wish  to  apologize  to  Dr.  Swiggett  for  my  inadvertent  attribution  of  the  &quot;swaddled,  nunlike&quot;  repression  of  the  oh-so-good  sleeping  burghers  of  poor  Clement  Moore's  jingle  to  him.  That  fragment  of  deft  scholarship  was  in  fact  " b"contained  in  an  assigned  &quot;My  Holi-  days&quot;  theme  by  one  of  my  freshman  students  here  at  Redwood  Poly;  the  pa-  per  was  lying  on  my  desk  at  the  time  thatI  wrote  my  review,  so  the  mistake,  though  risible,  is  perhaps  understand-  able.  Actually,  it's  a  pity  that  such  an  insight  was  not  in  Dr.  Swiggett's  book,  for  it  struck  me  as  by  far  the  keenest  apercu  I  had  read  of  the  work  in  ques-  tion,  and  might  have  led  our  unhappy  author  to  a  more  fructuous  harvest  of  conclusions.  Dr.  Swiggett's  semi-hysterical  objec-  tions  to  my  review  suggest  the  anxieties  of  a  cloistered  exegete  when  he  happens  on  an  unexpected  work  of  pseude-  pigrapha.  He  seems  to  blame  me,  rather  than  himself,  for  his  book,  and  I  would  remind  him  quietly  that  the  ideological  equivalent  of  double  agency,  however  unwitting,  is  antiquated  Hegelian  dia-  lectic.  After  reading  his  letter,  I  must  conclude  that  what  seemed  to  be  a  mere  failure  to  see  (Kant's  Nichtverstehen)  is  in  fact  a  terrified  refusal  to  know.  Dr.  Swiggett  is  an  economist,  but  even  economists  have  an  unconscious,  as  Eriksen  and  George  Lichtheim  have  agreed.  His  pathetic  insistence  on  the  little  string  of  leftover  Lekachmanisms  that  so  entangles  his  work  does  not  con-  stitute  a  reply  to  the  perfectly  cheer-  ful  suggestions  I  made  about  Clement  Moore's  dark  night  of  the  soul;  those  dancing  sugarplums  are  prepubertal  phantasies,  for  all  that  Dr.  Swiggett,  with  the  blankets  pulled  up  to  his  nose,  insists  that  they  are  Bryanesque  bags  of  free  silver!  Why  doesn't  Dr.  Swiggett  attempt  to  answer  my  questions?  What  is  he  afraid  of?  His  jiggery-pokery  about  New  England  textile  mills  does  not  hide  the  fact  that  &quot;When  out  on  the  lawn  therearose  such  a  clatter&quot;  can  only  have  been  inspired  by  the  then  newly  invented  lawnmower,  and  thus  consti-  tutes  another  unconscious  recrudescence  of  the  sexual  machine,  the  phallic  jug-  gernaut,  that  so  troubled  the  dreams  of  our  grandparents.  At  the  risk  of  repeat-  ing  myself,  I  would  point  out  to  Dr.  Swiggett  that  only  a  dangerously  over-  burdened  superego  could  keep  him  from  accepting  that  &quot;Away  to  the  window  I  flew  like  a  flash,/Tore  open  the  shutters  and  threw  up  the  sash./The  moon  on  the  breast  of  the  new-fallen  snow,  Gave  the  luster  of  midday  to  objects  below&quot;  all  too  vividly  describes  an  imperfectly  sublimated  vision  of  marital  divestiture  and  defloration-  perhaps  of  a  less  healthy  nature  than  that  which  Melanie  Klein  discovered  in  &quot;The  Eve  of  St.  Agnes.&quot;  Can  his  con-  veniently  forgotten  Prancer  and  his     strangely  flying  law  firms  obfuscate  the  pre-orgasmic  urgency  of  &quot;Now  Dasher,  now  Dancer,  now  Prancer  and  Vixen,,  On  Comet,  on  Cupid  [sic],  on  Donder  and  Blitzen!&quot;?  Come,  come,  Dr.  Swig-  gett,  this  is  the  twentieth  century!  Please  join  us  in  the  ranks  of  the  lib\xc3\xa9r\xc3\xa9s,  who  remember  that,  in  Ferenczi's  words,  &quot;Only  confirmed  Oedipals  in-  sist  that  the  penalty  for  le  trahison  des  cleres  is  life  imprisonment.&quot;  Or  are  you  afraid  to  ascend  &quot;to  thetop  of  the  porch,  to  the  top  of  the  wall&quot;  and  then  &quot;dash  away,  dash  away,  dash  away  all!&quot;?  In  the  spirit  of  the  season,  I  will  close  by  pointing  out  that  I  have  certainly  not  refused  to  accept  the  donn\xc3\xa9e  of  Dr.  Swiggett's  clumsily  wrapped  but  charming  little  hand-woven  pot  hold-  er.  I  wish  only  to  suggest,  to  him  and  to  your  readers,  that  Great  Grand-  daddy  Clement  Moore's  familiar  old  mahogany  whatnot  casts  some  startling  shadows  when  held  up  to  the  strong  light  of  intelligence!"