 b"THE  real  trouble  with  love  is  that  I  people  want  contradictory  things  out  of  it.  Like  Jimmy  Maguire  and  his  wife.  Jimmy  was  a  tall  thin  fellow  with  an  eager  face,  and  in  his  younger  days  he  used  to  be  something  ofa  Don  Juan.  There  was  a  little  group  of  them-the  Doctor,  Con  Bishop,  and  two  or  three  other  bache-  lors-and  they  were  all  out  for  a  good  time.  They  used  to  go  shooting  and  fishing,  and  one  year,  I  remember,  they  took  a  house  in  Clare.  The  things  that  went  on!  Any  excuse  for  a  party,  and  it  didn't  much  matter  to  them  where  the  party  was  to  be-Limerick,  Galway,  or  Cork,  whatwas  it,  after  all,  but  a  day's  outing?  Jimmy  was  the  most  reckless  of  them.  They  would  be  returning  to  Dublin  from  one  outing  when  he  would  hear  of  a  party  some-  where  else,  and  decide  they  ought  to  crash  it.  The  Doctor,  who  shared  a  flat  with  Jimmy,  lived  in  a  continual  state  of  alarm  at  what  Jimmy  would  do  next.  Jimmy  would  do  anything  if  the  mood  struck  him,  and  whatever  he  did,  the  Doctor  was  swept  protesting  into  his  orbit.  &quot;But  it's  all  right,&quot;  Jimmy  would  say,  raising  his  hand.&quot;'The  man  is  an  old  friend.  I've  done  business  with  him  for  years.&quot;  &quot;Business?&quot;  the  Doctor  would  say.  &quot;You  don't  even  know  his  name.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  what's  a  little  thing  like  that  between  friends?&quot;  And  Jimmy  would  go  up  to  the  house  of  a  perfect  stranger  and  brazen  it  out.  You  wouldn't  think  from  his  rather  formal  manners  that  he  was  so  audacious,  but  he  was.  And  he  could  get  away  with  things,  for  he  was  per-  sonable  and  plausible.  Not  only  would  he  gain  admittance  to  the  party,  he  would  end  by  becoming  the  center  of  it.  The  secret  of  Jimmy's  success  was  his  fondness  for  women.  He  really  liked  women,  and  had  a  quite  genuine  inter-  est  in  their  affairs,  and  a  woman  could  never  be  with  him  for  long  without  telling  him  her  troubles.  Whatever  wonderful  way  he  had  of  easing  their  minds,  women  who  confessed  to  him  wanted  to  go  on  confessing,  and  that  was  where  the  Doctor  came  in,  be-  cause  he  would  talk  to  them  over  the  telephone  in  that  wonderful,  vague,  syrupy  voice  of  his,  sympathizing  with  them  in  their  inability  to  find  Jim-  my,  while  Jimmy  in  stockinged  feet  tiptoed  around  him,  making  hideous  faces.  All  this  greatly  scandalized  the  Doc-  tor.  But  for  all  his  alarm  and  pretended  disapproval  he  loved  it,  of  course.  He  had  been  devoted  to  his  mother,  and,  as  a  result,  he  was  still  unmarried  and  likely  to  remain  so.  Jimmy  was  his  se-  cret  life,  his  wild  oats.  He  was  lonely  and  sweet-natured  and  forever  think-  ing  and  talking  of  love.  You  would  go  to  see  him,  and  he  would  fuss  about  with  the  drinks,  murmuring  in  his  gentle,  worried  way  about  Jimmy  and  his  girls.  &quot;And  some  of  them  mar-  ried,  my  dear  fellow,&quot;  he  would  whis-  per,  giving  you  a  dark  look  over  his  spectacles.  &quot;I  forget  whether  you  like  soda.  Personally,  I  think  it  gives  you  indigestion.  And  he'sso  pious!  Every year  of  his  life  off  to  Lough  Derg  on  the  pilgrimage,  trailing  round  the  holy  stones  on  his  bare  feet.  And  even  there-did  I  put  too  much  water  in  it-he  picks  them  up.  At  the  same  time-here's  health,  old  man-he  keeps  trying  to  reform  me.  I  admit  my  beliefs  mightn't  be  all  that  orthodox,  but  I  can't  help  feeling  that  his  aren't  completely  sincere.  Mind  you,  he's  quite  charming  about  it.  He  says  I'm  putting  the  cart  before  the  horse,  and  that  sins  against  morals  are  less  impor-  tant  than  sins  against  faith,.  According  to  him,  I'm  a  Protestant.  He  says  it's  all  in  the  importance  you  attach  to  the  First  Commandment,  or  something.  I  really  can't  follow  that  sort  of  argu-     " b"ment-I  mean,  this  difference  between  sins  against  faith  and  sins  against  mor-  als.  Can  you?&quot;  At  last,  after  years  of  piety  and  skirt-  hunting,  Jimmy  found  the  girl  he  wanted  to  marry,  and  he  took  her  by  storm.  She  was  called  Roisin  Mooney,  and  I  must  say  he  showed  great  taste.  She  was  a  really  nice  girl,  the  sort  you'd  swear  would  be  especially  re-  served  as  a  reward  for  virtue,.  She  was  enraptured  with  religion,  with  the  sac-  raments,  with  prayer,  and  with  every  form  of  emotional  religion.  Nor  did  marriage  seem  to  disillusion  her.  At  least  twenty  times  a  day  that  girl  must  have  told  herself  that  she  was  the  luck-  iest  girl  in  the  world  to  be  married  toa  king  of  men  like  Jimmy,  and  twenty  times  a  day  wondered  if  God  would  give  her  the  grace  to  be  worthy  of  him.  It  is  the  unworldly  type  of  woman  whose  mind  is  fixed  on  the  saints,  suffering,  and  sublimation  who  really  appreciates  the  miracle  of  a  man  in  the  bed  when  she  wakes  in  the  morning.  She  asked  him  over  and  over  to  ex-  plain  again  from  the  beginning  what  he  had  felt  when  he  first  met  her  and  how  it  was  he  had  seen  anything  in  such  a  plain,  stupid,  uneducated  girl  as  herself.  And  Jimmy,  who  found  it  difficult  to  remember  even  where  he  had  met  her  and  whose  approach  to  all  women  had  been  standardized  down  the  years,  tried  to  look  portentous  and  understanding,  and  said  that  a  legal  training  was  a  great  aid  in  seeing  through  appearances.  Roisin  shook  her  head  doubtfully.  She  had  known  other  lawyers,  and  they  had  never  seen  through  her.  Clearly  it  couldn't  be  anything  but  inspiration,  and  she  worried  her  own  vivid  recol-  lections,  trying  to  see  portents  and  mir-  acles  in  them,  but  she  couldn't,  because,  as  she  recognized  herself,  she  wasn't  clever.  Jirimy  had  a  raja's  life  with  her.  To  say  that  Roisin  was  a  good  housekeeper  would  be  an  absurdity.  She  kept  house  for  him  as  a  musician  writes  a  sym-  phony  or  a  saint  pursues  a  meditation-  on  her  knees,  in  quest  of  the  absolute.  When  he  got  home  from  the  office,  she  knelt  at  his  feet  and  took  off  his  shoes,  while  Jimmy  made  faces  to  indicate  the  various  inconsiderate  ways  in  which  she  hurt  his  feet.  When  she  had  got  him  a  drink  and  asked  him  for  the  tenth  time  if  it  was  all  right,  she  sat  on  a  little  stool  and  looked  up  adoringly  at  him  while  that  scoundrel  pontificated.  And  when  he  came  home  drunk  and  climbed  into  bed,  with  his  bowler  hat  down  over  his  eyes  and  his  umbrella  resting  neatly  on  his  left  arm,  she  gently  relieved  him  of  both,  took  off  his  shoes  and  socks,  opened  his  collar  and  tie,  and  crept  into  bed  beside  him,  thanking  God  for  the  gift  of  a  wonderful  husband.  She  was  a  real  pet.  Those  who  had  known  Jimmy  in  his  bachelor  days  wondered  how  long  ex-  actly  it  would  take  him  to  grow  tired  of  living  with  a  saint  and  long  for  the  open  road  again  and  the  wild  parties  in  Galway  and  Cork,  But  that  was  not  how  it  happened  at  all.  Instead,  Jimmy  began  to  drop  all  his  old  friends,  the  Doctor  among  them.  He  didn't  do  it  blatantly  or  rudely,  because,  whatever  faults  Jimmy  may  have  had,  he  was  a  thorough  gentleman.  But  he  dropped  them  just  the  same.  Occa-  sionally  the  Doctor  would  run  into  him  in  Dame  Street,  coming  from  his  office,  and  Jimmy's  face  would  light  up,  and  the  pair  of  them  would  drop  into  the  Wicklow  Bar  or  Davy  Byrne's,  while  Jimmy  sketched  the  wonderful  par-  ty  he  was  going  to  give  for  his  old  friends,  till  that  glazed  look  came  in  his  eye  and  he  had  to  go  home  in  a  cab.  But  the  Doctor  noticed  that  no  matter  how  glazed  Jimmy's  eyes  got,  the  in-  vitation  never  became  more  precise.  &quot;Jimmy,&quot;  he  said  dryly,  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  offen-  sive  or  personal  in  any  way,  but  if  you'd  put  a  tenth  of  the  energy  into  giving  that  party  that  you  put  into  talking  about  it,  we  might  have  some  chance  of  attending  it  before  we  die.&quot;  &quot;Next  week  definitely,  Pat,&quot;  said  Jimmy,  drawing  himself  up  with  a  frown.  &quot;Thursday  or  Friday,  depend-  ing.  I'll  ring  you.&quot;  But  the  next  week  came  and  he  didn't  ring,  and  there  was  no  party.  The  Doctor  was  hurt.  He  realized  that  Jimmy  was  dropping  the  old  crowd  for  business  acquaintances,  clients,  and  priests.  Particularly  priests.  A  man  who  is  trying  to  exorcise  his  past  can't  do  better  than  priests,  Now  when  he  got  a  bit  high,  Jimmy  talked  about  the  Dia-  logue  Mass  instead  of  ankles,  or  the  difference  between  ourselves  and  the  Greek  Orthodox  Church.  He  took  Roisin  to  the  pictures,  wearing  the  impeccable  bowler  hat  and  carry-  ing  the  umbrella.  Jimmy  was  on  the  way  up.  In  no  time  now  he  would  be  solicitor  to  half  a  dozen  government  agencies.  Jimmy's  old  friends  couldn't  help  being  curious  about  theeager,  dark-  haired  girl  he  had  married,but  what  they  didn't  know  was  that  Roisin  was  even  more  curious  about  them.  Marriage  was  still  wonderful.  She  was  having  a  baby,  and  she  lit  candles  to  Jimmy,  she  was  full  of  Jimmy,  but  none  of  the  people  he  brought  to  the  house  really  knew  Jimmy.  When  Roisin  had  one  drink  in-one  drink  was  always  enough  to  loosen  her  tongue-she  had  to  tell  the  whole  amaz-  ing  story  of  Jimmy's  courtship.  &quot;And  do  you  know  how  that  fellow  proposed  to  me?&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;He  made  me  sit  on  the  side  of  the  road  and  " b"then  took  out  his  handkerchief  and  knelt  in  front  of  me  as  if  I  was  a  stat-  ue.  'Jimmy  Maguire!  says  I.  'Get  up  outof  that  or  you'll  ruin  your  new  trousers.  &quot;  But  when  she  looked  at  their  polite,  vague,  smiling  faces,  she  had  the  feel-  ing  that  they  only  thought  her  a  fool.  And  in  the  middle  of  the  night  she  woke  Jimmy  to  ask  him  to  tell  her  frankly  whether  she  hadn't  ruined  his  life.  Jimmy  yawned  and  said  no,  she  was  doing  fine.  &quot;But  I  want  to  know  the  truth.  I'd  sooner  know  it  now  when  I  might  be  able  to  do  something  about  it,&quot;  she  would  say,  as  if  she  were  begging  the  specialist  to  hold  nothing  back  from  her.  &quot;I  do  my  best  but  I  know  I  haven't  the  brains.  I  was  always  the  same.  I  never  could  do  sums.  No  wonder  if  they  think  I'm  mad.&quot;  And  all  the  time  at  the  back  of  Roisin's  mind  was  the  thought  I  that  the  person  who  \\  would  really  under-  \xe2\x80\x98  stand  her  was  Josephine  Hanrahan.  She  knew  that  Jimmy  and  Jose-  phine  Hanrahan  had  been  very  thick.  She  did  not  know  in  which  way,  nor  did  she  very  much  care,  but  she  was  cer-  tain  that  a  woman  who  had  been  so  fond  of  Jimmy  would  under-  stand  her  feelings.  This  was  where  the  first  rift  occurred  between  Jim-  my  and  herself,  for  Jimmy  did  not  like  the  idea  at  all.  Not  that  he  showed  how  trou-  bled  he  really  was.  In-  stead,  he  pretended  to  consider  the  matter  judicially.  &quot;Now,  Josephine  is  a  delightful  woman,&quot;  he  said  in  a  harsh  tone,  &quot;but  she  isn't  your  class.  Please  don't  think  I'm  being  snobbish.  There's  nothing  I  dis-  like  more.  But  we  have  to  face  facts,  and  it  wouldn't  be  in  the  woman's  bestinter-  ests.&quot;  To  sacrifice  a  pleas,  ure  in  order  to  spare  pain  to  Josephine  ap-  pealed  immensely  to  Roisin's  idealistic  mind,  but  all  the  same  she  couldn't  help  won-  dering  if  it  was  really  necessary.  And  Jimmy,  in  his  quiet  Machiavellian  way,  fed  her  another  curate,  who  kept  her  quiet  for  a  few  months,  till  she  started  to  wonder  what  sort  of  man  the  Doctor  was.  &quot;Well,  Paddy  is  a  fellow  you  might  find  interesting,&quot;  Jimmy  said  thought-  fully,  filling  his  pipe.  &quot;As  a  study,  that  is.  But  unfortunately  the  way  we're  situated  we  can't  very  well  ask  him  to  the  house.  You  see,  Paddy  is  an  athe-  ist.&quot;  &quot;An  atheist?&quot;  Roisin  said,  brighten-  ing  up  at  once.  She  had  never  met  an  atheist.  &quot;You  never  told  me  that.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  well,  it's  not  right  to  say  things  like  that  about  your  friends,&quot;  Jimmy  said  loyally.  &quot;But  he  might  just  make an  offensive  remark  in  frontof  poor  Father  Joe  that  would  upset  him.&quot;  Of  course  it  was  a  slander;the  Doctor  was  incapable  of  being  offen-  sive  to  anybody,  but  Roisin  didn't  know  this  and  had  to  rest  content  with  the  excuse.  Then,  after  racking  his  brains,  Jimmy  dug  up  some  old  businessman  who  had  painted  watercolors  in  his  youth  and  had  known  everybody;  one  night  when  he  was  drunk  Yeats  had  brought  him  home.  But  his  conversa-  tion  with  Yeats  seemed  to  have  been  of  much  the  same  kind  as  his  conversation  with  Roisin.  By  this  time,  Little  Liam  was  born,  and  for  quite  a  while  Roisin's  attention  was  diverted  from  everything  else  in  the  world.  Except  that  even  then  she  was  slipping  out  to  the  optician's  wife  next  door  for  a  cup  of  tea  or  a " b"glass  of  sherry-anything  to  escape  the  curates,  'The  optician's  wife  was  a  shrewd,  interfering  woman.  She  didn't  know  what  Jimmy  was  up  to,  but  she  knew  Jimmy  was  trying  to  keep  his  wife  to  himself,  and  that  was  enough  for  her.  ONE  evening  the  Doctor  was  sitting  in  the  lounge  ofthe  Wicklow  Hotel  with  Jimmy  when  Josephine  Hanrahan  looked  in.  The  Doctor,  who  was  very  polite  and  very  fond  of  her,  jumped  to  his  feet  and  signalled  to  her.  &quot;Don't  bother  to  get  up,  Paddy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  not  staying.  If  I'm  not  good  enough  to  drink  with  a  man  in  his  own  house,  I  see  no  reason  for  do-  ing  it  in  public.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  really,  Josephine!&quot;  Jimmy  protested,  &quot;I  didn't  think  you'd  do  it,  Jimmy,&quot;  she  said  bitterly.  &quot;I  really  didn't.  I  thought  you  were  too  big  a  man  to  drop  your  old  friends.&quot;  Jimmy  looked  owlishly  at  the  Doc-  tor,  then  at  her,  and  held  out  his  hands.  &quot;Do  I  look  like  a  man  who's  dropped  his  old  friends?&quot;  he  asked  trium-  phantly.  &quot;Oh,  you're  too  clever  for  that,  Jimmy,&quot;  she  replied.  &quot;You're  not  ob-  vious.  But  you  won't  ask  us  to  your  house,  and  you  won't  let  us  meet  your  wife.  Has  Paddy  been  there?&quot;  &quot;&quot;No,  dear,&quot;  the  Doctor  said,  trying     to  make  his  voice  sound  smooth.  &quot;Are  you  sure  you  won't  have  a  drink?&quot;  &quot;Quite,  Paddy,&quot;  she  said.  But  she  was  not  to  be  shut  up.  She  turned  on  Jimmy  again.  &quot;But  you'll  invite  people  who  never  spoke  to  you  a  year  ago  and  wouldn't  speak  to  you  tomorrow  if  you  hadn't  money  in  your  pocket.&quot;  Jimmy  took  his  glasses  off  and  wiped  his  long,  pale  face  as  though  to  reveal  the  true  features  below.  The  character  he  was  trying  to  assume  now  was  the  haggard,  patient,  overworked  family  man,  and  to  give  him  his  due  he  did  it  well.  &quot;My  dear  girl,&quot;  he  said  kindly,  wagging  his  glasses  at  her,  &quot;in  my  busi-  ness  I  have  to  entertain  people  I  don't  much  care  for.&quot;  He  stopped  and  picked  up  the  bowler  hat.  &quot;This  is  a  fagade.  And  you  know  it.&quot;  &quot;Lies,  Jimmy  Maguire!&quot;  she  said  in  a  whisper.  &quot;I  know  your  faults.  I  probably  know  them  better  than  you  do  yourself.  But  you're  not  mean,  and " b"you're  not  calculating  and  you're  not  avaricious.&quot;  He  drew  himself  up,  smiled,  and  raised  the  bowl-  er  to  her.  &quot;Thank  you,  my  dear.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  let  me  fin-  ish,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;I  never  said  you  weren't  jealous.&quot;  &quot;Jealous?&quot;  he  echoed  as  though  he  didn't  know  what  she  meant.  &quot;Yes,  jealous.&quot;  &quot;But  of  whom,  Jose-  phine?&quot;  Jimmy  said,  with  an  elaboration  of  astonish-  ment  that  did  not  seem  genuine.  &quot;Of  your  wife.&quot;  &quot;That  shows  all  you  know  about  Roisin.&quot;  &quot;No,  that  shows  all  you  know  about  her.  You're  afraid  she'll  do  what  oth-  er  wives  have  done-wives  well  known  to  you.&quot;  The  Doctor  didn't  know  where  to  look.  Jimmy  didn't  like  it  either.  &quot;Real-  ly,  Josephine,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;that's  pretty  farfetched,  even  from  you.&quot;  &quot;You  never  made  a  big-  ger  mistake  in  your  life,  Jimmy  Maguire,&quot;  she  said  contemptuously.  &quot;And  you'll  regret  it.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cEXTRAORDINARY  ideas  women  get  into  their  heads,&quot;  Jimmy  said  when  she  had  gone.  &quot;Ihope  that  husband  isn't  giving  her  more  trouble.&quot;  The  Doctor  could  see  he  was  disturbed.  That  eve-  ning  he  did  notreach  the  glazing  stage,  and  they  separated  at  the  bus  stop  by  Trinity  College.  The  Doctor  went  away  feeling  thoughtful.  For  he,  too,  had  been  to  the  optician's  house  and  wondered  afterwards  why  on  earth  he  had  been  invited  and  why  the  optician's  wife  had  pressed  him  to  come  again.  He  began  to  feel  that  he  was  involved  in  an  intrigue.  The  next  time  he  went  there,  he  saw  Con  Bishop  in  a  corner,  and  then  he  knew  that  he  was  right.  Con  was  another  of  the  old  group.  He  was  an  architect,  an  excitable  young  man  with  an  Oxford  accent.  He  flirted  with  the  optician's  wife  as  he  flirted  with  every-  body.  The  Doctor  was  sitting  with  an-  other  medical  man,  drinking  his  whis-  key,  when  the  door  opened  and  Roisin  Maguire  came  in.  Ignoring  everyone else,  she  went  straight  up  to  the  Doctor  and  took  his  hands  in  hers  and  dragged  him  over  to  the  sofa.  &quot;I'm  always  wanting  to  talk  to  you,&quot;  she  exclaimed  intensely,  gazing  into  his  eyes.  &quot;It's  mutual,&quot;  he  said,  never  having  seen  a  technique  like  this  before-if  it  was  a  technique,  which  he  couldn't  be  sure  of.  &quot;But  I  don't  see  as  much  of  Jimmy  as  I  used  to.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  who  does?&quot;  she  said  in  a  husky  voice.  &quot;You  can't  see  him  for  curates.  I  love  my  religion-you  prob-  ably  think  I  don't,  but  I  do-only  I  can't  bear  too  many  priests  round  the  house.  Maybe  I  shouldn't  say  it  to  you,  but  I  can't  help  it.&quot;  &quot;Why  on  earth  shouldn't  you  say  it?&quot;  asked  the  Doctor,  overwhelmed  by  her  manner.  &quot;I  shouldn't-not  to  an  atheist.&quot;  The  Doctor  was  on  the  point  of  asking  who  had  told  her  this  when  their  hostess,  who  felt  this  was  all  much  too  sudden  and  public,  descended  on  them.  Still  Roisin  did  not  let  go  of  the  Doctor's  hands,.  Instead,  she  looked  over  her  shoulder  at  Mrs.  Lacey  and  said,  &quot;Ah,  Kitty,  haven't  I  waited  long  enough  for  a  chance  totalkto  this  fellow?  Be  a  sport  and  bring  me  an  old  drink.  Anything  at  all  will  do.  It  all  has  the  same  effect  on  me....  Aren't  I  awful?&quot;  she  asked  the  Doctor.  &quot;I  can  never  tell  the  difference  between  one  drink  and  another.&quot;  But  her  mind  was  not  on  the  drink  any  more  than  it  was  on  the  party.  She  had  a  sort  of  rapt,  entranced  quality,  as  though  she  were  a  sleepwalker  living  out  a  dream.  &quot;'Tell  me,  aren't  you  the  one  that  " b"bailed  Jimmy  out  when  he  was  arrested  in  Limerick?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  the  Doctor  said  with  amuse-  ment.  &quot;I'm  afraid  that  was  Con,  the  fair-haired  chap  over  there.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  talk  to  him,  too,&quot;  she  said,  squeezing  the  Doctor's  hands.  &quot;I'm  always  hearing  about  ye.  And  there  was  a  woman  in  the  car  with  him  the  same  night,  wasn't  there?  He  won't  tell  me  who  she  was.  That  fellow  is  the  devil.  Do  you  know  was  it  Jose-  phine  Hanrahan?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  the  Doctor  said  cautiously,  &quot;I  don't  think  it  was.&quot;  He  knew  quite  well  who  the  woman  was,  but  he  felt  that  this  was  dangerous  ground.  &quot;He'll  never  tell  me  anything,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  that's  a  girl  I'd  love  to  meet-Josephine,  I  mean.&quot;  &quot;I  fancy  she'd  like  to  meet  you,  too,&quot;  the  Doctor  said  politely.  &quot;Ah,  listen,  Paddy,&quot;  she  whispered,  laying  a  hand  on  his  knee,  &quot;would  you  ever  bring  me  round  to  her  place  some  night?  You  couldn't  tell  Jimmy,  of  course.  He  has  some  daft  notion  that  she's  not  class  enough.&quot;  &quot;Not  class  enough?  Mrs.  Hanra-  han?&quot;  &quot;Ah,  sure,  what  was  my  own  father  only  a  floorwalker  in  the  Munster  Arcade?&quot;  she  said  impatiently.  &quot;Pd  ask  Kitty  Lacey  here  to  invite  her,  only  Kitty  is  so  blooming  inquisitive.  She'd  want  to  know  what  you  had  for  your  dinner.  And  I  can't  help  blab-  bing  everything  to  her.  I'm  that  sort,  Paddy.  I  blab.  Isn't  it  terrible?  Do  you  notice  the  way  I'm  blabbing  now?&quot;  The  suggestion  that  anyone  might  apply  the  word  &quot;blabbing&quot;  to  anything  so  enchanting  as  Roisin's  conversation  came  to  the  Doctor  as  a  shock  as  great  as  hearing  himself  described  as  an  athe-  ist  and  Josephine  as  a  woman  of  no  class.  At  the  same  time,  he  began  to  see  what  the  dream  was  that  gave  Roisin  the  air  of  a  sleepwalker.  It  was  a  dream  of  Jimmy.  She  loved  the  thought  that  he  was  a  wild,  romantic,  reckless  man,  and  when  she  was  polishing  his  shoes,  cooking  thedinner,  or  bathing  the  child,  she  was  sustained  by  that  vision  of  him.  He  was  touched  by  it,  and  soon  after  that  he  took  her  to  Josephine's  little  house  in  Rathgar.  He  felt  nervous  about  doing  it,  but  then,  as  I  have  said,  the  Doctor  rather  liked  being  in  the  posi-  tion  of  having  to  be  nervous.  Besides,  Roisin  herself  was  in  such  a  state  that  by  force  of  comforting  her  he  put  him-  self  at  ease.  She  &quot;blabbed,&quot;  as  she  called  it,  all  the  way.  'Tell  me,  Paddy,  do  you  think  I'm  mad?  Sometimes  I  think  myself  I'm  not  in  my  right  mind.  What  will  Jimmy  Maguire  say  if  he  hears  of  it?  He  might  kill  me.  Did  it  ever  strike  you  that  he  has  a  distinct  look  of  Henry  VIII?  I  call  him  that  sometimes.  He  only  laughs  at  me.&quot;  The  Doctor  laughed  himself  at  the  thought  of  the  ascetic-looking  Jimmy,  who  resembled  an  El  Greco  saint,  being  compared  with  Henry  VIII,  but  now  that  he  realized  Roisin  had  a  hankering  after  that  side  of  him,  it  struck  him  that  if  the  matter  were  not  so  delicate  and  if  only  Jimmy  had  remained  inti-  mate  with  him,  it  might  do  no  harm  to  indicate  to  him  that  an  occasional  touch  of  the  firebrand  would  go  down  well  at  home.  But  Jimmy  was  cau-  tiously  extinguishing  every  bit  of  the  firebrand  in  himself-either  because,  as  Josephine  thought,  he  was  jealous,  or  because  he  wanted  to  get  on  in  the  " b"world,  or  possibly  even  for  a  third  rea-  son,  which  the  Doctor  could  not  at  the  moment  put  his  finger  on.  He  had  ceased  to  be  hurt  by  Jimmy's  defection.  He  was  almost  beginning  to  feel  sorry  for  him.  The  visit  to  Josephine  was  a  success.  When  she  opened  the  door  to  them,  she  smiled  in  a  way  that  suggested  that  she  would  presently  burst  into  tears,  but  as  Roisin  rattled  on  nervously,  Josephine  relaxed.  When  Roisin  went  upstairs  for  a  moment,  Josephine  turned  to  the  Doctor  and  said,  &quot;That  old  humbug!  He  would  have  all  the  luck,  wouldn't  he?&quot;  &quot;Are  you  sure  it's  luck,  dear?&quot;  the  Doctor  asked  doubtfully.  &quot;Why?  There's  nothing  wrong,  is  there?&quot;  &quot;No.  But  I  thought  you  said  he'd  regret  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  that!&quot;  she  said  with  a  shrug.  Like  all  women,  she  lacked  the  courage  of  her  intuitions.  RHSIN  went  home  after  that  visit  and  the  fat  was  in  the  fire.  If  she  had  been  coming  back  from  a  date  with  a  man,  she  couldn't  have  been  more  ter-  rified.  For  now  that  it  was  all  over  she  realized  her  own  duplicity.  What  was  worse,  she  had  made  an  appointment  for  lunch  and  shopping  with  Josephine  the  following  week.  She  kneltbe-  fore  a  picture  of  the  Sacred  Heart  in  her  bedroom  and  asked  for  strength  to  be  able  to  tell  Jimmy.  She  explained  to  the  Sacred  Heart,  as  she  had  to  the  Doctor  or  would  have  explained  to  anyone  else,  thatshe  couldn't  keep  a  thing  to  herself.  She  was,  as  the  Sacred  Heart  knew,  a  blabber.  And  she  asked  the  Sacred  Heart  not  to  let  Jimmy  be  too  mad  with  her.  Then,  having  built  up  a  crisis  out  of  it,  she  told  Jim-  my  in  an  offhand  way  that  would  have  made  any  man  mad,  even  one  without  a  past  like  Jimmy's.  &quot;Oh,  Jimmy,  do  you  know  who  I  ran  into  today?  Josephine  Hanrahan.&quot;  There  was  no  response  at  all.  &quot;God,  Jimmy,&quot;  Roisin  rattled  on  despairingly,  &quot;she's  a  lovely  woman.  Why  didn't  you  let  me  meet  her  before?  We  went  into  her  place  for  a  minute.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98We?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  met  her  with  Paddy,  and  she  asked  us  in.&quot;  Jimmy  knocked  the  ashes  out  of  his  pipe  and  slowly  turned  on  her.  He  frightened  her.  His  face  looked  old  and  sour  and  caved  in.  He  said,  &quot;Does  this  mean  you  intend  to  defy  me?&quot;  &quot;Defy  you,  Jimmy?&quot;  she  said,  her  hands  pulling  nervously  at  her  dress.  &quot;Sure,  I  never  defy  you.  I  said  I'd  have  lunch  with  her.  Is  there  anything  wrong  with  that?&quot;  \xc2\xab'That  remains  to  be  seen.&quot;  &quot;But  what  could  I  say,  Jimmy?  I  didn't  want  to  hurther  feelings.&quot;  &quot;You  could  have  put  her  off,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;As  you'd  put  off  any  other  un-  suitable  invitation.&quot;  &quot;But  I  don't  see  what  there  was  unsuitable  about  it.  I  liked  the  girl,  the  little  I  saw  of  her.&quot;  &quot;'The  little  you  saw  ofher,  precise-  ly,&quot;  Jimmy  said,  holding  up  his  finger  in  warning.  &quot;You  don't  really  know  that  woman  and  I  do.  There  arethings  about  her  I'd  soonernot  discuss.  Things  I'd  prefer  not  to  say  about  an  old  friend.&quot;  &quot;What  things,  Jimmy?&quot;  asked  eagerly.  &quot;I  said  I'd  sooner  not  discuss  them,&quot;  Jimmy  replied  severely.  But  his  train-  ing  as  a  lawyer  probably  made  him  feel  that  this  was  unconvincing.  Evi-  dence  was  what  was  needed.  &quot;I  don't  Roisin remember  too  well,  but  there  was  some  talk  about  a  girl  in  Drumcondra  that  jumped  out  of  a  three-story  window.&quot;  &quot;Is  it  in  Drumcondra?&quot;  exclaimed  Roisin,  who  found  it  difficult  to  keep  up  another  person's  tone.  &quot;Sure  if  I  was  living  there  I'd  jump  out  of  a  window  myself.&quot;  &quot;Well,  maybe  it  wasn't  Drum-  condra,&quot;  he  conceded.  &quot;Anyway,  she  was  killed.  I'm  not  saying  it  was  ever  brought  home  to  Josephine.  For  all  I  know,  she  may  be  as  innocent  as  your-  self.  But  you  do  not  want  to  be  mixed  up  with  people  like  that.  Particularly  while  she's  knocking  around  with  a  fellow  like  Paddy  Baldwin.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  for  goodness  sake,  you're  not  going  to  say  there's  anything  between  the  pair  of  them!&quot;  cried  Roisin.  &quot;I  don't  believe  a  word  of  it,  Jimmy.  I  think  he's  lonely  and  she  just  mothers  him.&quot;  Jimmy  laughed  harshly,  and  she  looked  up  at  him  in  surprise.  &quot;Paddy  is  an  old  friend,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  I  have  no  wish  to  criticize  him.  His  mother,  God  rest  her,  could  have  told  you  the  truth.&quot;  &quot;His  mother?&quot;  credulously.  Roisin  cried  in-  &quot;But  Josephine  says  he  was  crazy  about  her.&quot;  &quot;She  died  of  a  broken  heart,&quot;  Jim-  my  said.  Then  he  did  an  extraordinary  thing.  He  went  on  his  knees  and  joined  his  hands.  You  can  imagine  Jimmy,  six  foot  of  him,  on  his  knees.  &quot;Roisin,&quot;  he  " b"said,  &quot;won't  you  keep  away  from  that  crowd,  for  my  sake?  You're  too  good  for  them.  They'll  only  corrupt  you  the  way  they've  corrupted  others,  all  for  their  own  amusement.  I  know  them  of  old,  and  I  curse  the  day  I  had  anything  to  do  with  them.  That's  what  I  wanted  when  I  married  you-to  get  away  from  it  all.  And  there's  another  thing,&quot;  he  added,  closing  his  eyes  and  staring  up  in  agony  at  her  like  a  blind  man  asking  for  a  penny.  &quot;I  didn't  want  to  tell  you,  but  you'd  better  know  before  it's  too  late.  My  family  were  all  a  little  unstable  mentally.  On  my  fa-  ther's  side,  of  course.  I  couldn't  bear  a  mental  shock.  My  uncle  was  insane  when  he  died.  You  wouldn't  want  to  drive  me  to  that.&quot;  &quot;Your  uncle?&quot;  Roisin  cried.  &quot;Which  uncle?&quot;  Willie,&quot;  he  replied  humbly.  &quot;It  was  kept  a  great  secret.  We  didn't  want  anyone  to  know.&quot;  &quot;I  think,&quot;  Roisin  said,  speaking  with  real  indignation,  &quot;I  might  have  been  told  before  now.&quot;  Extraordinary  as  it  was  for  her  to  see  this  great  man  at  her  feet,  it  wasn't  him  she  was  thinking  of  now.  It  was  Little  Liam.  Liam  was  a  curious  child.  He  always  hated  to  be  denied  anything,  and  if  you  spoke  severely  to  him  he  screamed  with  rage.  Was  it  possible  that  Liam  had  inherited  the  family  weakness,  andhad  she  in  her  innocence  made  it  worse  by  frustrating  him  when  she  should  have  comforted  him  and  given  in  to  him?  For  the  first  time,  she  was  really  angry  with  Jimmy,  and  went  upstairs  to  look  at  the  child,  and  then  knelt  by  his  bedside  and  promised  the  Sacred  Heart  that  she  would  never  cross  him  again,  whatever  he  wanted.  HE  was  a  serious  girl,  and  she  knew  that  she  could  not  im-  peril  her  marriage  by  doing  something  that  Jimmy  disapproved  of,  so  she  rang  up  Josephine  and  excused  herself  be-  cause  of  illness.  But  she  was  also  a  rotten  liar.  When  Josephine,  a  wom-  an  who'd  give  you  the  shift  off  her  back,  heard  that  Roisin  was  ill,  she  an-  nounced  that  she  was  coming  over  to  look  after  the  house  for  her.  Then  Roisin's  heart  misgave  her,  and  she  asked  Josephine  over  for  tea.  She  felt  terrible  about  it  because  she  knew  that  she  was  no  good  at  explaining  things  if  the  explanation  involved  any  improb-  abilities,  and  she  was  certain  that  Jose-  phine  would  see  through  it  all.  She  did.  Within  five  minutes  she  knew  that     Roisin  was  acting  under  Jimmy's  orders  and  went  white  with  rage.  It  was  bad  enough  that  he  would  not  invite  her  to  the  house.  To  make  it  plain  that  he  did  not  think  her  a  proper  acquaint-  ance  for  his  wife  was  too  much.  When  he  was  ill  and  a  bachelor,  he  simply  packed  his  bag  and  came  to  her  house  and  stayed  there  till  he  was  well.  So  she  told  Roisin  this,  and  Roisin  shook  her  head  despairingly.  &quot;What  can  I  do?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Whatever  you  like,&quot;  said  Josephine.  &quot;I  wouldn't  allow  my  husband  to  give  me  orders  like  that.&quot;  Roisin  realized  unhappily  that  a  par-  tial  explanation  was  not  enough.  &quot;But  it  isn't  only  that,  Josephine,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  afraid  to  contradict  him.  You  see,  it's  in  the  family.  He  had  an  uncle  that  was  queer.&quot;  &quot;It's  the  first  I've  heard  of  it,&quot;  Jose-  phine  said.  &quot;Well,  to  tell  you  the  truth,  it's  the  first  I  heard  of  it,  too,&quot;  said  Roisin.  &quot;But  who  told  you?&quot;  Josephine  persisted.  &quot;He  did-Jimmy,  I  mean.  He  told  me  it  was  dangerous  for  him  to  be  upset.&quot;  &quot;And  you're  quite  sure  he's  not  making  it  up?&quot;  &quot;Would  a  man  say  a  thing  like  that  about  his  own  family  if  it  wasn't  true?  Sure,  that  would  be  crazy  out  and  out.  I'd  sooner  'twas  true.  You  don't  think  it  isn't?&quot;  she  added  anxiously.  &quot;I'll  make  it  my  business  to  find  out,&quot;  Josephine  said  grimly.  &quot;But  if  that's  not  true,&quot;  Roisin  wailed,  &quot;then  I  suppose  Paddy's  mother  didn't  die  of  a  broken  heart,  either.&quot;  &quot;Paddy's  mother?&quot;  cried  Josephine.  &quot;She  worshipped  the  ground  he  walked  on.  And  with  good  reason.  I  don't  know  what's  come  over  your  hus-  band,  Roisin.  I  never  knew  him  to  tell  lies  like  that.&quot;  &quot;It  isn't  lying,that's  the  awful  part  of  it,&quot;  Roisin  said  in  distress.  &quot;Jose-  phine,  I've  never  breathed  it  to  a  soul,  and  I  wouldn't  say  it  now  only  I  know  it's  not  true.  Actually,  I  knew  all  the  time  it  wasn't  true.  You  will  under-  stand  me,  won't  you?  I'm  only  telling  you  to  show  how  crazy  he  is.  That  woman  in  Drumcondra  that  was  sup-  posed  to  have  committed  suicide  be-  cause  of  you  ...&quot;  AF  that  point,  Josephine  nearly  went  crazy  herself,  and  nothing  but  loyalty  to  Roisin  prevented  her  from  going  straight  to  Jimmy's  office  and  demanding  a  signed  retraction.  Any-  way,  it  made  no  difference.  For  if  there  is  one  impression  a  man  must  never  leave  upon  his  wife  it  is  that  he  is  emo-  tional  and  unstable,  because  it  means  that  the  woman  at  once  begins  to  feel  the  whole  business  of  judgment  and  de-  cision  devolves  upon  her,  and  a  woman  who  feels  that  no  longer  respects  her  husband.  So  Roisin  continued  to  meet  the  gang,  and  take  one  drink,  which  always  made  her  tight,  and  she  de-  veloped  a  violent  crush  on  Con  Bishop,  whose  Oxford  accent  probably  remind-  ed  her  of  Henry  VIII.  She  and  Jo-  sephine  were  devoted  to  one  another,  though  not  in  the  way  Roisin  would  have  wished,  with  Josephine  as  the  con-  fidante  of  her  passion  for  Jimmy.  Rath-  er,  she  was  the  confidante  of  Roisin's  doubts  of  Jimmy,  the  woman  she  would  rush  to  whenever  there  was  trouble  between  them.  Jimmy,  on  the  other  hand,  forever  alienated  from  all  his  old  friends  by  his  slanders,  took  to  going  to  chapel  in  the  evenings  and  praying  that  his  wife  would  not  do  something  it  would  have  taken  a  convulsion  of  nature  to  make  her  do,  and  at  home  he  was  ordered  about  as  if  he  were  a  child. "