 b"BEFORE  the  First  World  War,  Sopron-Odenburg  was  one  of  the  largest  garrison  cities  of  the  Austro-Hungarian  Empire.  It  was  an  \xc3\xa9lite  garrison.  Barons,  counts,  dukes,  and  occasionally  an  archduke  strolled  with  fellow-officers  on  Sunday  mornings  along  the  main  boulevard  (now  renamed  Lenin  Kordt).  In  the  sky-blue,  green-and-scarlet-braided  tu-  nics  of  their  respective  regiments,  and  with  clinking  spurs  and  mighty  sabres,  they  were  much  admired  by  the  burgh-  ers,  and  especially  by  the  ladies.  Sun-  day  afternoons  were  given  over  to  privates  and  noncommissioned  officers,  who  promenaded  with  maids  from  households  in  every  corner  of  the  city.  The  military  was  a  fluctuating  ele-  ment  in  a  society  that  had  remained  unchanged  for  centuries.  Sopron-  COdenburg  went  back  to  the  time  of  the  Romans.  During  the  Middle  Ages,  it  was  a  fortified  frontier  town,  and  for  a  few  years  even  a  royal  residence.  Most  of  the  burghers  could  trace  their  histories  back  to  the  medieval  guilds,  and  any  family  whose  tree  stopped  short  of  two  hundred  years  was  likely  to  be  regarded  as  foreign.  Neverthe-  less,  the  soldiers  were  an  accepted  part  of  the  city's  life.  Indeed,  it  was  con-  ditioned  by  them.  When  taps  sounded  from  the  Army  barracks,  the  burghers  retired,  and  when  a  trumpet  signalled  that  a  platoon  was  on  its  way  to  the  exercise  grounds  they  awoke.  Mer-  chants  depended  on  the  sol-  diers'  pay  for  their  business  (al-  though  privates  earned  as  little  as  three  cents  a  day),  and  at  night  the  officers  bought  champagne  for  the  chorus  girls  of  the  city  theatre.  It  was  an  exciting  atmos-  phere  for  a  boy  to  grow  up  in.  By  the  age  of  seven,  I  was  imbued  with  the  prevailing  spirit  of  patriotism  and  knew  the  ranks  from  corporal  to  lieutenant  general  almost  before  I  could  spell  simple  words.  We  boys  were  in  constant  attendance  at  the  exercise  grounds  and  often  marched  behind  the  brass  band.  My  Uncle  Solomon,  himself  a  former  sergeant  with  the  Hussars,  gave  me  an  additional  education  in  military  mat-  ters.  He  was  the  only  Jewish  baker  in  town-a  seventh-generation  baker,  he  liked  to  say,  for  the  Jewish  population  in  Sopron-Odenburg,  too,  had  anteced-  ents  dating  back  many  centuries.  When  I  was  eight,  I  used  to  rush  to  the  bakery  in  the  Kirchengasse  every  day  after  school.  I  was  Uncle  Solomon's  favorite  nephew-his  wife,  Hannah,  was  my  mother's  cousin-and  I  had  been  elected  to  wake  him  from  his  afternoon  nap.  I  would  find  him  slumped  in  a  chair,  his  large  bald  head  resting  on  a  table.  While  he  slept,  giant  logs  burned  in  the  oven,  heating  it  to  the  right  temperature  for  baking.  At  precisely  three  o'clock,  when  I  heard  the  bell  of  the  Evangelical  Church  nearby,  I  would  touch  him  on  the  shoulder.  He  would  look  at  me  with  one  eye,  stretch,  rise,  and  lift  me  high  in  the  air,  my  stomach  tingling.  &quot;You're  a  good  boy,&quot;  he  would  say,  easing  me  back  to  earth.  Then  he  com-  manded  me  to  stand  straight  and  he  himself  came  to  attention.  &quot;Habt  acht!&quot;  he  would  shout.  &quot;Chin  up!  Chest  out!  Stomach  in!  'That's  the  boy.&quot;  He  stepped  smartly  to  the  oven  while  I  followed  at  a  march.  After  this  ritual,  he  went  about  the  business  of  baking.  Descending  into  a  shallow  pit,  he  took  up  a  mammoth  poker  and  hammered  the  glimmering  logs  into  ash.  This  he  brushed  from  the  oven,  replacing  it  with  pale,  lifeless  dough,  thrust  deep  inside  on  a  paddle.  As  he  worked,  pearls  of  perspiration  collected  on  his  bristling  red  mustache.  I  liked  to  watch  the  dough  turnpink  and  brown  and  become  transformed  in-  to  the  familiar  bread  and  rolls  sold  out  in  the  front  of  the  store.  Customers  came  from  everywhere-even  Kapuvar,  thirty  kilometres  away-Jews  and  [REDACTED]  alike.  Aunt  Han-  nah  did  the  selling,  while  Un-  cle  sat  behind  the  counter  writing  tiny  Hebrew  charac-  ters  in  his  account  book.  Peas-  ants  paid  only  once  a  year,  at  harvest  time.  I  still  remember  every  cor-  ner  of  that  mysterious  realm:  the  dark,  deep  doorway,  the  narrow  winding  stairs  leading  up  tothe  living  quarters,  the  dormitory  where  the  six  baker's  helpers  lived  and  slept,  three  at  a  time,  while  the  others  worked  their  twelve-hour  shift.  I  spent  hours  there,  watching  Uncle  at  work  and  listening  to  his  stories.  They  were  mostly  about  his  younger  years.  After  an  apprentice-  ship  with  his  father,  he  had  been  dis-  patched  to  [REDACTED]  to  learn  how  to  make  fancy  pastry.  He  told  me  about  his  evenings  at  the  Theater  an  der  Wien,  where  he  listened  to  Strauss  and  Lehir  operettas.  He  could  whistle  all  the  principal  themes.  And  when  he  recounted  his  visits  to  the  Hofburg-  " b"theater,  he  would  stand  before  the  oven,  lift  one  arm  dramatically,  and  recite  Schiller,  Goethe,  and  Shake-  speare.  Probably  the  most  exciting  tales  of  all  were  drawn  from  his  Wander-  jahre  through  [REDACTED].  Like  most  Jews  of  his  generation,  he  was  enthusi-  astically  pro-German.  &quot;Richard,&quot;  he  would  say,  &quot;one  day  you  must  see  it  with  your  own  eyes-Miinchen,  Ham-  burg,  and  [REDACTED]!  The  tremendous  traffic,  the  crowds  of  people,  the  Un-  tergrundbahn  that  takes  you  in  a  couple  of  minutes  from  one  part  ofthe  city  to  another.&quot;  And  I  never  tired  of  hearing  about  the  parade  he  had  witnessed  on  the  Potsdamer  Platz,  where  the  Kaiser  stood  on  a  platform  reviewing  his  troops.  &quot;Infantry,  Richard!  Cavalry!  Cannon  as  big  as  our  city  tower!&quot;  And  sometimes  Uncle  would  tell  me  about  his  three  years  in  service  with  the  Hussars.  He  was  the  best  marks-  man  in  the  whole  9th  Regiment,  and  he  had  a  medal  to  prove  it.  It  still  adorned  his  tunic,  which  hung  in  a  closet,  and  though  I  had  seen  it  many  times,  I  was  never  permitted  to  touch  it.  &quot;Je,  Rich-  ard,&quot;  he  often  said,  &quot;those  were  great  times.  Then  a  soldier  was  a  real  soldier.  We  took  the  oath  to  defend  His  Majesty  and  our  country,  and  we  meant  it.  But  how  the  world  has  changed.  .  ..&quot;  My  father  often  warned  me  to  keep  away  from  Uncle's  establishment:  it  was  unventilated  and  filthy.  &quot;But  I  get  sugar-coated  horns,&quot;  I  said.  That  was  precisely  what  he  didn't  like.  And  he  had  no  use  for  Uncle  Solomon.  &quot;That  Dummkopf!&quot;  he  called  him.  I  was  torn  in  my  loyalty  between  the  two  men.  I  loved  them  both,  and  I  wished  that  they  might  be  friends.  They  never  were.  There  were  hardly  two  people  more  unalike.  Father  came  to  Sopron-Odenburg  from  northern  [REDACTED]  (now  Czech-  oslovakia)  when  he  was  nineteen.  He  was  the  black  sheep  in  an  upper-  middle-class  family.  One  of  his  uncles  was  a  surgeon  general,  and  another  a  famous  gynecologist  and  director  of  the  Jewish  Hospital  in  Budapest.  The  family  name  derived  from  the  name  of  the  town.  Father  became  in-  terested  in  politics  while  he  was  still  in  the  Gymnasium.  He  was  dismissed  from  school  after  distributing  anti-  government  leaflets,  and  subsequently  he  ran  away  to  Budapest,  where  he  became  a  printer's  apprentice.  Soon  he  was  involved  in  the  trade-union  movement  and  was  sent  to  Sopron-  Odenburg,  where  a  modern  industry" b"had  just  started.  He  began  organizing  workers-first  a  small  steel  plant,  then  a  button  factory,  then  a  coal  mine,  and  eventually  the  workers  in  small  shops,  Uncle's  bakery  included.  He  must  have  had  a  hard  time,  a  &quot;foreigner&quot;  in  our  arch-conservative  city,  and  in  those  early  days  visits  of  the  policeto  the  house  of  &quot;the  anarchist  and  Socialist&quot;  were  frequent.  But  by  the  time  I  was  conscious  of  the  world  around  me,  Father  had  established  himself.  He  was  head  of  the  union  council  and  the  workers'  social-security  panel,  which  maintained  out-patient  clinics  for  sick  workingmen  and  their  families.  We  lived  in  a  house  owned  by  the  panel.  It  was  the  former  mansion  of  a  count-a  seventeenth-century  baroque  building.  Our  living  quarters  were  on  the  second  floor-tremendous  rooms,  with  walls  so  thick  they  could  have  withstood  an  assault  from  the  whole  garrison.  From  our  windows,  there  was  a  view  across  a  courtyard  to  the  clinics,  where  posters  above  the  entrances  read,  &quot;THE  THINK-  ING  WORKER  DOES  NOT  DRINK--  THE  DRINKING  WORKER  DOES  NOT  THINK!&quot;  and  &quot;DO  NOT  SPIT  IN  THE  OPEN  AIR-TUBERCULOSIS  IS  MUR-  DERER  NO.  1.&quot;  I  have  a  photograph  of  Father  dat-  ing  from  that  period.  He  is  the  central  figure  in  a  group  of  determined-  looking  men  wearing  large  cravats.  He  has  an  ample  crop  of  hair  and  side  whiskers,  but  only  the  beginnings  of  a  mustache.  He  used  to  be  embarrassed  by  his  youthful  appearance,  Mother  told  me.  But  even  then  his  voice  was  strong.  I  often  listened  outside  the  door  when  he  spoke  at  union  meetings.  These  were  held  in  a  room  next  to  our  apartment,  the  former  state  hall.  Handsome  old  crystal  chandeliers  hung  from  the  ceiling,  but  the  light  came  from  sober,  unshaded  electric  bulbs.  I  would  hear  words  like  &quot;exploitation&quot;  and  &quot;class  struggle,&quot;  followed  by  ap-  plause.  Once,  I  asked  Father  to  explain  the  meanings  of  these  words.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you're  old  enough,  and  I  suppose  you  should  know  a  few  things.  It'slike  this,  Richard.  There  are  wealthy  people,  and  there  are  poor  people.  And  we  must  find  ways  to  give  everybody  his  share-enough  to  eat,  a  decent  place  to  live  in,  healthy  working  conditions.  Not  like  the  filth  those  baker's  helpers  live  in-a  dozen  men  stuffed  into  one  little  room.&quot;  &quot;'There  are  only  six,&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;Well,  six,  seven,  whatever-it's  bad  enough.&quot;  I  should  have  known  that  Father  would  implicate  Uncle's  bakery,  and" b"many  months  passed  before  I  again  showed  any  curiosity  about  his  work.  One  of  my  earliest  recollections  is  of  a  local  election  campaign.  It  was  for  a  municipal  councilmanship,  and  Father  was  the  workers'  candidate-a  hopeless  prospect  in  a  Protestant  district  inhab-  ited  mostly  by  well-to-do  winegrow-  ers.  A  poll  tax  prevented  the  majority  of  the  workers  from  casting  votes.  Fa-  ther's  opponent  was  the  scion  of  an  old,  wealthy  Protestant  family.  Most  of  the  Jews-themselves  well-to-do  citizens-were  for  Father's  opponent,  and  Uncle  was  no  exception.  He  would  not  speak  openly,  but  one  day  he  read  me  an  article  from  a  local  anti-  [REDACTED]  weekly  directed  against  Fa-  ther's  candidacy.  Some  of  the  charges  were  so  clearly  directed  at  all  Jews  that  I  thought  Uncle  would  now  be  forced  to  come  to  Father's  defense.  I  waited  while  he  folded  up  the  paper  and  wiped  his  silver-rimmed  spec-  tacles.  &quot;I  still  recall,  Richard,  when  Jews  could  not  vote-and  now  some  would  like  to  run  the  whole  show.  It  does  not  do  us  any  good!&quot;  He  wagged  a  finger  at  the  newspaper.  &quot;Jews  should  think  twice  before  running  for  a  public  of-  fice.  We  are  equal  before  God,  yes,  but  there  are  limits.  It  is  bad  enough  to  try  to  push  into  office,  but  to  be  against  the  government  besides!&quot;  That  night,  I  refused  to  cat.  When  Father  came  in,  he  observed  me  for  a  while,  looked  into  my  throat,  and  took  my  temperature.  Obviously,  I  was  in  sound  health.  What  was  wrong,  he  asked  me.  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  I  mumbled.  He  shrugged  and  settled  down  to  his  dinner.  He  and  Mother  discussed  the  campaign.  Then  he  turned  to  me  again.  &quot;What  is  it?  Troubles  in  school?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  blurted,  &quot;it's  you-Jews  should  not  run  for  office-&quot;'  &quot;What!&quot;  He  half  rose  from  his  chair,  as  though  to  strike  me.  &quot;Who  told  you  that?&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;'That  old  Dummkopf.&quot;  &quot;Please,&quot;  my  mother  said.  He  turned  on  her.  &quot;It's  also  your  fault.  You  should  watch  where  the  boy  spends  his  time.&quot;  I  cried,  Mother  cried,  and  the  epi-  sode  ended  with  Father's  order  that  I  must  never  again  go  to  the  bakery.  I  felt  guilty  for  having  betrayed  Uncle's  feelings,  and  I  was  prepared  to  stay  away  for  a  while.  In  any  event,  there  was  much  to  keep  me  occupied  at  home,.  The  election  campaign  was  growing  more  intense.  Anonymous  let-  ters  threatened  Father's  life,  and  he" b"was  accompanied  everywhere  bybody-  guards-two  stern,  heavily  mustachioed  coal  miners.  At  night,  the  entrance  to  our  apartment  was  barricaded,  and  we  lived  as  though  in  a  fortress.  This  was  exciting,  and  I  could  not  help  feeling  pleased  when  I  heard  that  Father  was  beginning  to  win  over  new  support.  The  campaign  meetings  moved  from  the  back  room  of  a  little  inn  into  the  open  air.  Finally,  the  day  came.  Father  was  elected  by  a  tiny  majority.  The  crucial  vote  came  from  the  winegrow-  ers,  whom  Father  had  persuaded  to  vote  along  with  the  workers,  on  the  ground  that  they  were  workers  also.  Besides,  there  had  been  a  dip  in  prices  on  the  wine  market;  the  winegrowers  were  ready  to  risk  a  change.  That  night,  there  was  a  great  victory  celebration  in  our  courtyard,  which  was  jammed  with  people  holding  torches  aloft.  They  sang  one  song  over  and  over:  &quot;Briider  zur  Sonne,  zur  Freiheit,  Briider  zum  Lichte  empor.&quot;  FTER  the  election,  our  household  returned  to  normal,  and  I  began  to  think  wistfully  of  the  bakery.  Father  was  busy  with  his  new  political  role  and  seemed  to  take  no  notice  of  me.  My  circles  around  the  bakery  grew  smaller  and  smaller,  and  finally  one  day  I  woke  Uncle  from  his  afternoon  nap  at  the  appointed  time.  He  gave  no  sign  of  noticing  that  I  had  been  away.  He  commanded  me  to  stand  at  attention,  and  I  obeyed  with  a  snap.  In  a  minute,  we  were  comrades  again.  On  Tuesdays,  the  Sunday  edition  of  the  [REDACTED]  Neve  Freie  Presse  arrived,  and  Uncle  would  read  aloud  the  excit-  ing  news  from  the  Balkan  Peninsula-  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  Greece-and  [REDACTED]  and  Montenegro,  those  two  allies  of  [REDACTED]  and  the  potential  enemies  of  Austria.  &quot;We  shouldn't  wait!&quot;  he  thundered.  &quot;A  preventive  war  could  crush  those  midgets  like  lice!&quot;  &quot;And  what  would  [REDACTED]  say?&quot;  I  asked,  forI  was  becoming  quite  knowl-  edgeable  about  the  international  scene.  &quot;Ha,  ha-that  giant  clay  feet,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  [REDACTED]?&quot;  &quot;She  wouldn't  dare  interfere.  One  day,  you'll  learn  about  her  defeat  at  Sedan  by  the  great  Bismarck-and  as  for  the  British,  the  German  U-boats  would  soon  takecare  of  her  navy.&quot;  At  home,  when  Father  and  the  sombre  shop  stewards  met,  I  listened  to  another  version.  When  the  war-  mongers  in  [REDACTED],  St.  Petersburg,  and  other  capitals  unleashed  a  general  war,  the  workers  would  strike.  The  inter- " b"national  labor  movement  would  stop  that  nonsense  even  before  it  started.  They  believed  in  the  popular  labor  slogan  &quot;All  wheels  would  stand  still,  if  only  your  strong  arm  wills  it.&quot;  Each  time  Aunt  Hannah  found  her  husband  reading  to  me  from  the  Neuve  Freie  Presse,  she  sounded  her  warn-  ing  &quot;Solomon!&quot;  Uncle  did  not  argue  with  his  wife.  She  was  a  tiny,  thin  woman  with  large,  pitch-black  eyes,  and  always  on  the  run.  In  the  morn-  ing,  she  counted  the  rolls  into  delivery  baskets,  talked  to  customers  about  their  problems,  scurried  upstairs  to  put  the  apartment  in  order,  and  returned  to  supervise  the  helpers.  Much  of  the  afternoon  she  spent  mending  the  laun-  dry.  And  still  she  found  time  to  meet  my  mother  a  half-dozen  times  aday.  The  two  women  were  not  only  rela-  tives  but  friends,  and  the  aversion  their  husbands  had  for  each  other  did  not  disturb  their  mutual  affection.  They  tried  hard  to  establish  a  token  relation-  ship  between  our  families,  and  I  re-  call  a  few  times  when  we  were  visited  by  Uncle  Solomon  and  Aunt  Hannah  or  when  we  called  on  them.  The  two  nren  would  sit  stiffly  and  address  each  other  in  the  most  constrained  manner.  On  one  occasion,  shortly  after  Father  had  begun  to  organize  the  workers  of  smaller  shops,  Uncle  spoke  about  the  destruction  of  the  paternal  relationship  between  the  worker  and  his  master.  &quot;But  aren't  you  a  worker?&quot;  my  fa-  ther  said.  &quot;What  do  you  mean!&quot;  Uncle  snapped.  &quot;You  work  fourteen  hours  a  day.  You  hardly  find  time  to  relax.  That  makes  you  a  worker,  doesn't  it?&quot;  &quot;I  am  a  Biirger,&quot;  Uncle  said  haugh-  tily.  &quot;I  pay  taxes.  I  have  nothing  to  do  with  workers.&quot;  A  chilly  silence  fell  on  everyone.  Then  something  happened  thatsev-  ered  our  family  relations.  Uncle  liked  to  tell  me  ghost  stories  and  recount  his  dreams,  which  he  tookvery  seriously.  Although  both  his  parents  had  been  dead  for  many  years,  he  would  consult  with  them  about  business  matters.  One  day,  he  seemed  depressed.  I  watched  him  while  he  stirred  the  logs  in  the  oven,  and  then  I  asked  him  what  was  wrong.  He  put  his  poker  aside.  &quot;Last  night,&quot;  he  said  quietly,  &quot;I  had  a  long  talk  with  Mother.  She  wore  her  black  kerchief  with  the  white  fringe-the  one  she  wore  only  on  the  highholy  days.  'Solo-  mon,'  she  said,  'I'm  lonesome  for  you.  Aren't  you  my  favorite  son?  You  must  join  me.'  I  said  it  was  impossible-who  would  care  for  the  bakery?  But  she" b"only  shook  her  head.  &quot;Tomorrow  at  noon,'  she  said.  'I'll  be  waiting  for  you.'  Then  she  disappeared.&quot;  I  felt  my  throat  tightening.  &quot;But  it  was  just  a  dream,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Mother  was  a  strong-willed  wom-  an,&quot;  Uncle  said  with  finality,  and  went  back  to  look  after  the  oven.  As  soon  as  I  left  him,  I  searched  for  Aunt.  I  found  her  scrubbing  a  floor  upstairs.  &quot;Poor  Uncle!&quot;  I  cried.  In  a  quavering  voice,  Itold  her  about  his  dream,  and  when  I  finished  she  burst  out  laughing.  I  felt  foolish.  Neverthe-  less,  I  couldnot  rid  myself  of  the  presentiment  that  Uncle  was  going  to  die,  and  I  thought  of  nothing  else  until  bedtime.  The  next  day  at  school,  I  feigned  illness,  and  the  teacher  excused  me.  I  hurried  to  the  bakery.  In  the  oven,  the  logs  had  been  neatly  arranged,  ready  to  be  lighted  by  Uncle  at  noon.  I  crept  up  the  stairs  and  into  his  room.  He  was  sleeping  peacefully,  the  billow-  ing  quilts  above  him  moving  gently  up  and  down.  His  nightcap  was  tilted  over  one  eye.  I  settled  down  beside  the  bed  and  watched  him,  waiting  for  the  church  bell.  On  the  last  stroke,  Aunt  Hannah  appeared  at  the  threshold.  She  did  not  see  me.  &quot;Solomon!&quot;  she  called.  &quot;It's  time  to  light  the  oven.  Your  mother  must  have  changed  her  mind.&quot;  I  jumped  to  my  feet.  &quot;What  are  you  doing  here?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  should  be  in  school.  Go  back  immediately!&quot;  Uncle  opened  his  eyes,  stretched,  and  sat  up.  His  eyes  caught  mine.  &quot;Go  back  to  school,&quot;  he  said  sheepishly.  I  went  to  a  park  nearby  and  spent  the  afternoon  wandering  aimlessly  and  throwing  stones  into  water  puddles.  There  were  no  children  around,  and  it  was  a  boring  day.  When  I  arrived  home,  I  found  Mother  in  a  frantic  state.  She  had  been  notified  by  the  teacher  of  my  &quot;illness&quot;  and  thought  I  might  be  lying  half  dead  in  an  alley.  I  couldn't  be  found  anywhere.  In  spite  of  my  explanation,  I  got  a  sound  thrash-  ing,  and  that  was  not  the  end  of  it.  She  reported  everything  to  Father-  something  she  had  never  done  before  when  I  had  misbehaved.  He  flew  into  a  rage.  &quot;Everywhere  my  word  means  something  but  at  home!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;How  many  times  have  I  told  the  boy  to  keep  away  from  that  place!  He  has  been  frightened  by  that  Dummkopf  !&quot;  I  began  to  cry.  &quot;But  Uncle  did  not  die,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  didn't  want  him  to  die,  and  he  didn't.&quot;  &quot;'That's  what  I  mean,&quot;  Father  said.  " b"&quot;He  frightened  you.  It's  stupid  and  cruel.&quot;  I  expected  to  be  punished,  and  was  surprised  when  Father  told  me  to  sit  down  and  sat  beside  me.  &quot;Listen,  Rich-  ard,&quot;  he  said  calmly.  &quot;Uncle  told  you  a  story,  and  I'm  sure  he  has  told  you  similar  stories.  I  don't  want  you  ever  to  listen  to  such  talk.  You  must  never-I  mean  never-go  back  to  him  again.&quot;  N  the  beginning,  I  felt  bad-as  though  Uncle  Solomon  really  had  died.  But  gradually  Father  replaced  him  as  my  mentor.  On  Sunday  morn-  ings,  we  walked  through  the  woods  in  the  foothills  of  the  Alps.  We  collected  cyclamen,  which,  in  the  shade  of  the  mammoth  fir  trees,  grew  very  large.  And  Father,  who  was  raised  in  forest  country,  taught  me  to  distinguish  be-  tween  edible  and  poisonous  mushrooms.  I  listened  with  greater  interest  than  be-  fore  to  his  stories  about  the  out-patient  clinics.  In  simple  terms,  he  explained  the  theory  of  preventive  medicine  to  me.  He  was  a  very  articulate  man,  and  I  began  to  acquire  a  rudimentary  grasp  of  his  ideas.  More  important,  I  felt  that  I  awas  sharing  what  lay  closest  to  his  heart.  In  military  matters,  however,  we  remained  irreconcilable.  &quot;Why  do  we  need  all  those  soldiers?&quot;  Father  said  repeatedly.  &quot;It  must  lead  to  a  war.&quot;  &quot;But  we'd  beat  them,  wouldn't  we?&quot;  I  always  answered  enthusiasti-  cally.  This  sort  of  talk  seemed  purely  theo-  retical.  We  lived  in  an  aura  of  peace.  The  stores  were  crammed  with  mer-  chandise.  The  coffeehouses  prospered.  The  officers  were  more  elegant  than  ever,  and  their  parties  were  big  social  events.  They  were  held  in  the  garden  of  the  country  club,  which,  for  the  day,  was  enclosed  within  a  high  board  fence  painted  green.  The  burghers,  excluded  from  the  spectacle  inside,  would  prance  up  and  down  on  the  sidewalk.  We  boys,  naturally,  scaled  the  fence  and  spied  on  the  glittering  guests  below-  the  officers  in  their  best  uniforms,  and  their  ladies  in  dresses  with  deep  d\xc3\xa9col-  letage,  the  mayor,  the  big  industri-  alists,  and  a  few  city  councilmen.  In  the  spring  of  1914,  Uncle  fell  ill.  For  the  first  time  in  two  years,  Aunt  Hannah  came  to  our  house.  She  cried  as  she  described  how  she  had  found  him  lying  on  the  floor  before  the  oven.  (He  must  have  had  a  coronary,  which  at  that  period  could  not  be  diagnosed.)  ||  His  condition  was  so  serious  that  we  could  not  visit  him  for  three  weeks.  I  accompanied  my  parents  and  was  much  shaken  when  I  saw  him.  He  had  aged,  and  his  face  had  become  thin  and  as" b"pale  as  dough.  He  must  have  seen  my  concern,  for  when  I  bentover  him  he  embraced  me  warmly  and  assured  me  that  he  would  soon  be  well.  From  that  day  on,  I  visited  his  bed-  side  daily  and  read  aloud  to  him  from  the  Presse.  Father  did  not  object.  I  was  present  when  Uncle  took  his  first  steps,  and  a  week  later  I  supported  him  down  the  stairs.  Much  of  his  work  had  been  taken  over  by  his  helpers,  and  he  re-  turned  to  bed  each  afternoon  for  his  nap,  where  I  would  waken  him,  as  formerly,  at  three  o'clock  sharp.  Little  by  little,  he  resumed  his  old  routine.  One  sunny  afternoon  in  June,  I  was  strolling  with  friends  in  the  Elisabeth,  park,  where  twice  weekly  a  military  band  gave  concerts.  I  still  recall  that  they  were  playing  atune  from  &quot;The  Gypsy  Baron&quot;  when  someone  ran  up  to  the  conductor  and  whispered  in  his  ear.  He  stopped  the  music  in  the  middle  of  a  phrase  and  turned  to  the  audience,  his  mouth  quivering.  &quot;Erzherzog  Franz  Ferdinand  and  his  consort  have  been  murdered  ...in  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  an-  nounced.  The  chatting  around  the  kiosk  ceased  instantly.  The  crowd  began  to  disperse  quickly.  Immediately,  I  hurried  to  the  bakery.  Despite  the  gauntness  of  his  face,  Uncle's  eyes  had  the  old  gleam.  &quot;Didn't  I  tell  you,  Richard?  The  shots  may  have  been  fired  in  [REDACTED],  but  the  trigger  was  pulled  in  [REDACTED]  and  St.  Petersburg.  How  long  will  our  patience  last!&quot;  It  did  not  last  long.  On  the  twenty-  eighth  of  July,  Austria  declared  war  on  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED]  entered  the  conflict.  When  [REDACTED]  entered  the  war,  Uncle  hung  a  picture  of  Kaiser  Wilhelm  on  the  wall,  stood  at  attention,  and  sang:  &quot;Es  braust  ein  Ruf  wie  Donnerhall,  Wie  Schwertgeklirr  und  W  ogenprall,  Am  Rhein,  am  Rhein,  am  Deutschen  Rhein.&quot;  The  war  had  unanimous  support  in  those  days.  In  gray  uniforms,  the  shop  stewards  marched  together  with  the  burghers  to  the  rail  station,  while  the  population  strewed  flowers  before  them.  Father  was  one  of  the  soldiers,  and  the  night  before  he  left  Uncle  came  to  wish  him  well.  He  shook  Father's  hand  and  said  something  heartening  about  being  home  by  harvest  time.  Father  looked  very  smart  in  his  uni-  form,  decorated  with  the  stars  of  an  artillery  sergeant,  but  he  had  little  to  say.  At  the  rail  station,  when  he  looked  down  on  us  from  his  compartment  win-  dow,  his  eyes  were  sad.  Uncle  bought  a  large  map  of  Europe  and  nailed  it  to  the  table.  The  Neuve" b"Freie  Presse,  though  two  days  late,  ar-  rived  daily,  and  after  reading  the  bulle-  tins  he  stuck  little  flags  on  his  map  to  delineate  the  front  lines.  Things  did  not  go  as  well  as  expected  in  [REDACTED].  After  an  initial  thrust,  our  armies  were  stopped.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  Uncle  reas-  sured  me.  &quot;I  know  that  territory  like  my  own  palms.  Right  at  that  spot  we  often  stopped  in  our  maneuvers  to  get  fresh  supplies  and  Army  reserves.  We  are  playing  a  cat-and-mouse  game  with  the  536572626961ns,  and  soon  the  jaws  will  close  on  the  mouse-like  that!&quot;  From  [REDACTED],  ourarmies  cut  into  Polish  territory.  Uncle  said,  &quot;Soon  we'll  be  in  [REDACTED],  and  from  there  it's  only  a  short  hop  to  St.  Petersburg.  Der  bise  Mann  there  will  soon  find  out  that  it  was  easier  to  kill  helpless  Jews  in  his  pogroms  than  to  fight  a  real  war.&quot;  I  was  deeply  convinced  of  the  just-  ness  of  our  cause  and  was  only  sorry  that  at  thirteen  I  was  not  old  enough  to  be  on  the  battlefield.  At  home,  the  atmosphere  changed.  The  pink,  censored  postcards  from  Father,  who  was  on  the  527573736961n  front,  arrived  only  sporadically,  and  I  was  often  wakened  at  night  by  Mother's  sobbing.  During  the  first  winter  ofthe  war,our  dark  castle  apartment  was  freezing  cold,  and  from  all  around  came  bad  news.  Our  neighbor,  a  cob-  bler,  was  killed  in  action,  leaving  a  wife  and  eight  children.  My  two  first  cousins,  a  few  years  older  than  I,  were  both  killed  in  [REDACTED].  Under  the  head-  ing  &quot;Died  in  Action  on  the  Field  of  Honor,&quot;  lengthy  lists  appeared  daily  in  the  papers.  Nearly  everything  was  ra-  tioned.  The  shortage  of  fuel  and  bread  struck  hardest  of  all.  Long  lines  waited  in  front  of  bakeries.  We  could  not  have  managed  without  help  from  Uncle  and  Aunt.  Uncle's  oven  was  lighted  only  three  times  a  week-sometimes  only  twice.  Grain  arrived  after  much  delay.  There  were  no  rolls,  and  the  bread  grew  darker  and  darker.  Uncle  stood  behind  the  counter  to  cut  the  bread  into  slices  and  weigh  them,  and  the  rations  grew  smaller.  Often  those  at  the  end  of  the  line,  waiting  since  dawn,  had  to  be  turned  away.  Aunt  would  come  to  us  after  dark  with  a  few  pieces  of  bread  hidden  in  her  satchel.  Uncle  remained  optimistic.  Since  his  baking  was  curtailed,  he  had  more  time  to  follow  the  war,.  The  527573736961n  forces  had  penetrated  into  Austrian  territory  but  were  beaten,  and  retreated,  leaving  hundreds  of  thousands  of  war  prisoners  behind.  In  their  dirty-green  coats,  they  marched  through  our  town  on  their  " b"way  to  camps.  The  527573736961n  thrust  into  East  [REDACTED]  was  also  turned  back.  Uncle  was  jubilant.  &quot;Didn't  I  tell  you?&quot;  he  said  to  me.  &quot;Hindenburg,  the  greatest  Feldherr  in  history,  lured  them  to  the  Masurian  Marshes,  and  there  they  perished  by  the  millions.  .  ..&quot;  When  the  Italians  entered  the  war,  he  was  furious.  &quot;Those  dirty  cow-  ards!&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;In  1859,  they  stole  Lombardy  from  us,  and  now  they  stab  us  in  the  back.  They'll  pay  dear-  ly!&quot;  And,  of  course,  he  waited  impa-  tiently  for  the  fall  of  [REDACTED].  MY  first  doubts  began  in  December,  1916,  when  Father  arrived  home  on  leave.  He  came  from  the  Italian  front,  where  he  had  been  transferred  from  [REDACTED].  He  looked  well,  his  face  ruddy,  his  hair  graying  at  the  temples.  He  wore  many  medals,  and  I  walked  proudly  at  his  side  on  the  boulevard.  Numbers  of  people  visited  us,  Uncle  among  them.  He  looked  with  admira-  tion  at  Father,  and  said  how  sorry  he  was  that  age  prevented  him  from  join-  ing  the  heroic  troops  on  the  battlefield.  &quot;Soon  we'll  be  in  Rome,&quot;  he  said,  smiling.  Father  looked  at  him  squarely.  &quot;At  present  we're  bogged  down  on  the  Doberdo  Plateau  and  the  Isonzo  Riv-  er,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'The  war  will  end  before  we  get  to  Rome.&quot;  &quot;But  only  in  victory!&quot;  said  Uncle.  &quot;For  whom?&quot;  Father  asked  quietly.  Uncle  looked  to  me  as  if  asking  for  support,  then  he  shrugged  his  shoulders.  &quot;A  soldier  should  never  speak  that  way,&quot;  he  said  in  a  whisper.  He  got  up  and  left.  Our  armies  now  occupied  large  areas  of  enemy  territory.  Why  shouldn't  we  win  the  war,  I  asked  Father  as  we  walked  through  the  woods  one  day.  His  leave  had  lasted  three  weeks,  and  much  of  the  time  had  been  spent  with  me.  I  was  only  fifteen,  but  he  treated  me  as  an  adult.  &quot;What  does  it  matter  who  wins?&quot;  he  answered.  &quot;Are  our  interests  dif-  ferent  from  the  workers  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  4974616c79?  The  only  losers  should  be  those  who  started  this  ..  .  this  monstrous  thing.&quot;  In  the  darkened  assembly  room,  he  met  with  shopstewards  on  leave  and  those  too  old  to  be  drafted,  and  they  talked  endlessly  about  war  and  peace,  about  the  hunger  and  misery  of  women  and  children  in  the  hinterland,  about  widows  and  orphans,  about  the  in-  competence  and  greed  of  those  in  high  office-those  dark-souled  men  in  Vien-  na.  Finally,  the  day  came  for  Father  to" b"depart.  I  felt  saddened  in  a  way  I  had  not  when  he  first  went  off  to  war.  The  situation  at  home  became  graver  by  the  day.  Uncle's  bakery  was  as  cold  as  a  cave,  and  for  lack  of  fuel  and  grain  the  oven  remained  unlit  for  weeks  at  a  time.  On  one  occasion,  the  bakery  was  stormed  by  a  horde  of  people,  but  they  left  when  they  found  no  bread.  The  war  flourished.  Uncle  was  tri-  umphant  when,  after  the  second  phase  of  the  527573736961n  Revolution,  the  Bolshe-  viks  asked  for  peace  and  we  occupied  [REDACTED]  and  the  [REDACTED].  Then  Amer-  ica  entered  the  war.  &quot;What  do  those  cowboys  know  about  war?&quot;  he  said  dis-  dainfully.  At  the  beginning  of  the  year  1918,  the  desire  for  peace  among  the  populace  at  home  had  become  dangerously  in-  tense.  There  was  a  strike  in  a  munitions  factory  not  far  from  our  city,  and  night  after  night  one  could  hear  detonations  of  gunpowder.  Also,  there  were  epi-  demics  of  typhus,  caused  by  lice  in  the  prisoner-of-war  camps,  a  brief  flareup  of  cholera,  and  the  first  cases  of  Spanish  influenza,  which,  during  the  following  two  years,  would  takea  horrible  toll  of  the  population,  weakened  by  malnutri-  tion.  Illegal  peace  committees  sprang  up  everywhere.  I  joined  one.  During  those  feverish  months,  I  did  not  visit  Uncle  for  weeks  at  a  time,  but  when  I  did  I  would  find  him  sitting  at  the  table  staring  at  the  map.  I  could  no  longer  stand  to  hear  him  speak  of  vic-  tory.  &quot;Don't  you  see,  Uncle  Solomon,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;that  the  war  is  lost?&quot;  He  looked  at  me,  bewildered.  Then  he  shook  his  head.  &quot;We  both  speak  German,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  we  don't  understand  each  other  anymore.&quot;  Y  the  thirty-first  of  October,  1918,  the  armies  of  Austria-[REDACTED]  had  capitulated  on  all  fronts,  and  the  German  Army  surrendered  some  days  later.  Father  had  arrived  home  the  week  before.  For  several  months,  we  had  received  no  news  from  him,  and  Mother  feared  he  was  dead.  But  then  a  letter  arrived  from  him  saying  that  he  was  wounded  and  in  a  hospital  behind  the  front.  He  now  walked  with  a  cane,  as  his}  right  leg  was  badly  punctured  by  shrap-  nel,  but  he  immediately  summoned  his  comrades.  When  the  news  of  peace  reached  our  city,  the  church  bells  tolled,  and  soldiers  and  civilians  embraced  each  other.  Despite  my  own  joy,  I  could  not  help  worrying  about  Uncle  Solomon,  and  in  the  midst  of  the  celebration  I  went  to  see  him.  I  found  him  at  his  old  table.  The  map  had  been  removed.  He " b"did  not  speak  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  then  he  said,  &quot;Well,  it's  over.&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;But  listen,  Richard,&quot;  he  said  sadly,  &quot;you're  a  learned  young  man-unlike  your  uncle.  You  know  history.  The  day  of  Revaenche  must  come.  The  Ger-  man  Army-our  army-will  march  again.  Don't  you  think  so?&quot;  I  looked  at  the  old  man,  his  shirt,  sleeves  too  wide  for  his  meagre  arms,  his  tired  eves  fixed  on  me.  &quot;Yes,  Uncle,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;you  are  right.&quot;     ITH  the  collapse  of  the  old  empire,  [REDACTED]  had  become  an  independent  country,  stripped  of  its  traditional  government.  Only  the  work-  ing  class-the  unions-was  organized  and  had  strength  enough,  together  with  units  of  the  defeated  Army,  to  establish  a  semblance  of  authority.  A  regional  national  assembly  was  formed,  and  Father  was  elected  its  president.  A  few  months  later,  the  Republic-  the  first  democratic  experiment  in  Hungarian  history-was  overthrown  by  a  Communist  government.  This,  in  turn,  was  displaced  by  the  Horthy  government,  the  first  Fascist  regime  in  history.  In  August,1919,  liberals,  So-  cialists,  unionists  fled  to  Austria.  My  father  was  among  them.  Shortly  after,  the  family  joined  him.  I  never  saw  Uncle  again.  Each  year,  on  the  high  Jewish  holy  days,  I  sent  him  greetings,  but  only  Aunt  Hannah  replied.  I  knew  he  disliked  writing  let-  ters.  Mother  corresponded  regularly  with  Aunt  Hannah  over  the  years.  By  the  time  I  was  in  medical  school,  Uncle's  health  had  begun  to  fail  badly.  His  legs  were  swollen,  and  his  breath-  ing  had  become  labored,  Aunt  Hannah  reported.  Still,  he  walked  up  and  down  the  few  steps  to  and  from  the  bakery,  where  he  supervised  his  helpers.  Flour  had  long  since  become  plentiful,  and  the  oven  was  lit  daily,  as  of  old.  With  each  new  letter,  I  diagnosed  the  rapid  deterioration  of  his  heart.  Poor  Uncle,  I  used  to  think-he  would  never  live  to  see  the  German  Army  march  again.  He  died  inhis  sleep,  in  September,  1929,  ten  years  too  soon."