 b"SOMEHOW  I  missed  the  cele-  S  brated  two-page  advertisement  in  the  Times  a  few  months  ago  that  was  written  and  paid  for  by  a  Japanese  businessman  who  wanted  to  give  us  the  benefit  of  his  views  on  the  war  in  [REDACTED],  but  the  thing  caused  such  a  splash  that  its  waves  have  car-  ried  clear  out  to  the  Coast  and  back  again.  The  ripple  that  finally  washed  over  my  feet,  back  here  in  Cos  Cob,  came  in  the  form  of  a  letter  from  an  actor  friend  of  mine,  currently  resident  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  whose  perpetual  unemployment  leaves  him  plenty  of  time  for  philosophizing  and  other  forms  of  trouble.  Typically,  his  attention  did  not  alight  on  the  central  message  of  the  advertisement  but  seems  to  have  flut-  tered  off  after  one  of  the  advertiser's  minor  divagations-the  somewhat  creepy  conceit  that  we  can  all  overcome  our  fear  of  death  by  sleeping  in  a  cof-  fin.  At  least,  that's  what  I  make  of  this:  DrEar  Frank:  -  In  your  last  letter,  you  ask  what's  happening  out  here  in  L.A.  Not  much,  really,  but  I  think  you  should  know  that  going  to  [REDACTED]  is  getting  to  be  real  gear.  Budd  Schulberg  went  down  there  and  discovered  that  there's  an-  other  Budd  Schulberg  inside  him  try-  ing  to  get  out.  Dick  Van  Dyke  and  Janet  Leigh  also  made  thescene,  so  listen:  Whitey  cares.  And  I  guess  you  heard  that  Ronald  Reagan  is  running  for  governor.  His  trick  is  to  play  the  good  guy.  He's  for  capital  punishment.  Marie  (my  first  wife,  remember?  )'s  lawyer  sent  me  one  of  his  froward  overdue-alimony  notices  from  [REDACTED]  last  spring  and  stuck  in  this  heavy-  weight  clipping  from  the  [REDACTED]  Times  that  turned  out  to  be  an  advert  showing  the  shortest  way  to  the  conference  table  in  S.E.  Asia  and  other  kinds  of  Nirva-  na.  I  don't  know  if  the  lawyer  meant  it  as  a  put-on  or  if  he  thought  there  was  a  &quot;Pay  Yr.  Alimony  Today!&quot;  moral  hidden  between  all  those  lines  of  inscrutable  eight-point,  but  anyway  I  really  picked  up  what  this  little  Japa-  nese  set  down  about  the  Vietcong  and  all  that  other  stuff.  I  also  admired  his  pizzazz  laying  out  his  hard-won  nut  for  double-page  ads  in  the  Times.  But  the  part  that  really  turned  me  on  was  where  he  said  we  should  sleep  in  a  coffin  to  overcome  the  death  bag.  Now,  you  know  I've  always  had  this  real  hangup  about  dying.  So  I  thought  I'd  give  it  a  try.  What  the  hell,  it  was  that  or  go  up  to  Esalen  and  consult  with  Michael  Murphy  and  act  out  my  dreams  for  Dr.  Frederick  Perls.  I  don't  know  if  you've  heard,  but  Murphy  runs  this  fine  spot  at  Big  Sur  where  you  can  get  self-actualized  and  shake  the  whole  middle-class  guilt  thing.  Of  course,  there's  always  Cryo-Care.  They're  an  immortality  outfit  over  in  Phoenix,  and  the  other  night  they  had  one  of  their  up-tight  execs  guesting  on  the  Joe  Pyne  Show,  so  my  crummy  agent  Nick  and  I  cruised  over  to  the  studio  and  stood  in  the  Beef  Box  and  asked  questions.  The  Cryo-Care  pitch  is  to  freeze  you  when  you  die  at  minus  320\xc2\xb0F.  in  liquid  nitrogen  and  keep  you  in  a  capsule  until  suchtime  if  ever  science  is  able  to  repair  and  revive  your  pruny  remains.  I  need  something  better  than  that  to  make  abuy.  It  costs  4,200  bills  for  the  Cryo-Capsule  alone,  not  to  mention  upkeep.  You  have  to  put  out  for  re-  fuelling  it  maybe  for  centuries,  and  what  happens  if  your  nosy  little  great-  great-great-granddaughter  starts  peek-  ing  in  the  deep  freeze  to  see  if  theold  boy  is  starting  to  thaw?  A  poor  man  can't  afford  immortality.  When  you  get  right  down  to  the  nitty-gritty,  our  best  bet  is  to  learn  how  to  take  the  dive  gracefully  whenever  the  bright  day  is  done  and  we  are  for  the  dark.  So  anyway  I  sallied  out  and  scouted  around  for  a  coffin.  I  tried  Abbey  Rents.  No  buy.  Forest  Lawn  doesn't  handle  U-Drive  sarcophagi  either.  Same  with  Utter-McKinley.  I  finally found  one  at  4-Star  Costumes  &amp;  The-  atrical  Supply,  over  on  [REDACTED].  The  real  yell  was  when  this  kid  delivered  it.  I  mean,  he  didn't  bat  an  eye.  You  the  guy  for  the  coffin?  he  says,  and  I  said  yes,  you  can  put  it  in  here,  and  had  him  drop  it  on  the  bed.  No  cross-eyed  looks  or  cocking  a  snook,  the  way  they  do  in  Jack  Lemmon  flaky  flicks.  Well,  1d  burned  my  boats  and  so  forth,so  I  bit  on  the  bullet  and  crawled  in  that  thing.  I  found  the  bottom  a  bit  unyielding,  but  I  fixed  that  by  putting  three  pillows  in  there.  It  psyched  me  out  some  the  first  night  and  I  had  to  get  up  every  once  in  a  while  and  light  up  a  Lark.  I  kept  thinking  about  that  Poe  story  where  the  guy  lived  in  fear  ofburial  alive  and  so  had  a  little  win-  dow  put  in  the  top  of  his  coffin  to  wave  through  if  he  came  to.  But  grad-  ually  I  got  used  to  it  and  after  a  week  I  could  honestly  say  this  coffin  didn't  spook  me  a  bit.  I  still  look  both  ways  crossing  Sunset,  though,  so  as  far  as  crossing  the  bar  goes  I  guess  I'm  not  ready  yet.  But  I'm  just  likethis  with  coffins.  In  fact,  I  like  them.  Whenever  this  Joycean  collie  next  door  started  going  awokwokawok  about  6a.m.  I  just  pulled  the  lid  down  and  kept  my  fingers  under  it  for  air  supply.  That  way,  you  keep  a  shirtsleeve  environ-  ment  at  all  times.  I'm  really  stoked  up  about  coffins.  They've  just  had  a  bad  press.  HEN  the  accident  happened.  I  tend  to  toss  around  a  lot  when  I  sleep,  and  one  night  my  little  dove- " b"gray  chrome-handled  beauty  shifted  and  fell  off  the  bed  with  a  seismic  thump.  Adoze  in  all  the  cushions  and  satin,  I  was  unhurt,  but  the  couple  downstairs  must  have  thought  it  was  a  sonic  boom.  Anyway,  a  big  piece  split  out  of  my  bone  box  and  one  hinge  of  the  lid  popped  loose,  and  the  whole  side  was  sort  of  shot  to  shingles.  For  an  awful  minute  I  thought  the  damned  thing  was  totalled,  but  the  other  sides  looked  almost  O.K.  I  sent  it  back  to  4-Star  but  they  wouldn't  accept  it  in  that  condition.  Milton  4-Star,  a  fifth-rate  father  fig-  ure  who  has  given  hostages  to  fortune,  phoned  to  say  he  was  keeping  my  de-  posit  and  the  coffin  was  mine.  He  had  already  redispatched  it  to  my  pad.  He  made  a  lot  of  meaching  excuses  but  the  fact  is  he  was  bum-tripping  me.  Or-  dinarily  I  would  have  been  for  explod-  ing  but  having  conquered  my  fear  of  coffins  has  given  me  a  certain  detach-  ment.  I  figure  I'm  about  34  of  the  way  along  to  satori,  where  I  become  one  with  the  infinite  and  blend  into  the  stream  of  existence.  So  when  the  coffin  came  back  I  dropped  the  top  on  my  Falcon  and  loaded  the  beauty  in  the  back  seat  and     took  it  down  to  some  funky  pay-as-you-  go  funeral  outfit  on  North  Vermont.  They  don't  buy  used  coffins,  they  said.  The  whole  trip  was  a  huge  unsuccess.  Coming  back  out  Melrose  I  got  a  ticket  from  a  helmeted  and  booted  L.A.  black-shirt  storm  trooper  for  carrying  a  load  that  obstructs  my  rear  vision-  Section  21,700  [REDACTED]  Veh.  Code.  When  this  fuzzy  saw  that  coffin  pop-  ping  out  the  back  he  made  a  felony-  car  pullover  and  probably  put  all  units  on  frequency  standby,  but  when  I  told  him  about  my  death  bag  he  actually  turned  into  a  real  warm  human  being,  and  even  said  he'd  look  for  me  in  that  walk-on  I  did  for  &quot;Run  for  Your  Life.&quot;  Next  I  tried  to  give  the  little  symbol  of  our  long  home  to  the  apart-  ment  manager,  butgot  no  help  from  that  quarter,  either.  In  fact,  I  think  I  made  his  list  as  somebody  who  Bears  Watching.  He's  an  over-30  copout  anyway-a  defunct  Gutenbergian  lin-  car  type.  At  this  point,  I  figured  I'd  better  re-  configure.  So  Friday  I  put  an  ad  in  the  Citizen-News,  under  Miscellaneous:  &quot;For  Sale.  Coffin.  Used.  Fair  cond.  Nds  bdy  wrk.  Sell  or  trde  for  what  have  you?&quot;  Not  one  soul  called.  Until  Sun-  day.  Then  there's  a  ring  at  the  door  and  there  is  this  great-look-  ing  doll  with  a  fine  bod  standing  there  in  this  A-frame  dress.  Got  to  talking  and  it  turns  out  we  wait  in  the  same  line  (A-D  )  at  the  San-  ta  Monica  unemploy-  ment  office.  Her  name  is  Bibi.  I  showed  her  the  crack  in  the  side  but  she  says  that's  O.K.,  they  can  turn  it  backstage.  They're  do-  ing  a  legit  version  of  &quot;The  Loved  One&quot;  at  the  Las  Palmas.  I  told  her  how  I  came  by  the  coffin,  and  what  do  you  know-this  kid's  hung  up  on  dying,  too!  Small  world.  She  said  she'd  send  someone  around  to  collect  it,  so  I  walked  out  to  her  car  with  her-a  266  Dart  with  four-on-the-floor  and  a  stereo  rig.  We  made  a  date  for  Sun-  day  to  go  to  the  Toho  to  see  Kyoko  Kishida  in  &quot;School  of  Love.&quot;  Come  Sabbath,  she  picked  me  up  in  her  red  machine  and  after  the  flicks  we  went  to  Hamburger  Hamlet  and  thence  over  to  The  Trip,  where  I  nearly  came  to  blows  with  some  half-baked  half-  back-type  swinger  who  tried  to  say  a  Dart  is  a  Right-Wing  Social  Democrat  car.  So  Bibi  and  I  have  been  crawling  the  spots  every  night  since.  We've  even  been  talking  about  going  up  to  Es-  alen  and  turning  on.  Evenings,  we'll  lie  in  a  hot  sulphur  bath  with  a  fiasco  of  Chianti,  look  down  on  the  crows  and  choughs  (?)  that  wing  the  midway  air  of  the  Big  Sur,  and  get  on  a  first-name  basis  with  the  infinite.  Mornings,  we'll  do  sensory  calisthenics,  then  join  a  basic-encounter  group,  where  we'll  tackle  the  impoverishment  of  the  human  spirit  and  our  common  thanatophobia.  In  short,  Bibi  and  I  in-  tend  to  war  on  death  together,  and  we  intend  to  lick  this  thing.  Fully  three-  quarters  of  the  nation  goes  to  bed  in  fear  of  getting  melted  down  by  theold  Button  Molder-a  national  shame  in  the  richest  and  most  powerful  country  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  Yours  always,  Race  "