 b"THE  moon  rose  ruddy  and  swol-  I  len  over  the  river  and  [REDACTED]  tonight,  but  now  it  has  cleared  New  York's  October-well-haze.  &quot;Orbed  maiden  withwhite  fire  lad-  en  ...&quot;  And  where  would  Shelley  have  popped  up  from?  I  doubt  I've  remembered  him  ten  times  since  I  took  my  doctorate.  Look  on  his  works,  ye  mighty,  and  despair.  I  don't  really  mean  that.  But  I  am  more  than  a  little  distracted  since  yesterday  night,  when  Alexandra  said  a  few  words  in  a  whis-  per,  perhaps  to  herself,  then  again  per-  haps  to  me,  and  vanished  at  once.  That  is  her  name,  of  course,  though  she  has  never  told  me  so,  and  that  is  the  only  way  I  can  manage  to  think  of  her  just  now,  she  is  so  young.  And  maybe  it  is  because  of  her  that  I  think  of  last-  century  poetry.  She  has  been  coming  here  and  quoting  Tennyson  at  me-  Tennyson  and  worse.  Longfellow,  Bryant,  Henley.  God  knows.  But  for  a  month  or  so  she  has  amused  and  charmed  me,  and  I  could  wish  very  much  that  she  were  here  this  minute,  if  only  I  could  see  her  as  I  used  to-  cheerful,  full  of  her  crisp  convictions,  and  with  her  funny  laugh  that  some-  times  runs  away  with  her  and  sometimes  fades  off  into  shyness,  and  all  that  piled-up  hair.  I  have  grown  accustomed  to  thinking  of  her  as  just  a  quaint  child-twenty-one,  twenty-two.  It  was  always  a  pleasure  to  talk  to  her  here  on  the  roof  on  a  night  like  this.  She  listens  beautifully,  and  it  felt  good  to  let  one-  self  be  flattered  by  a  pretty  girl  again.  And-as  she  says  when  she  goes  on  about  Heaven  and  hope  and  the  rest-  why  not?  But  now  I  will  not  know  what  to  do  or  say.  Never  mind.  To  work,  to  work.  If  she  is  coming  back  tonight,  as  I  am  sure  she  is,  she  can  find  me  there.  What  a  job!  Dying's  the  least  of  it!  My  way  was  simple  enough.  One  too  many  sleeping  pills  after  one  too  many  drinks  after  one  too  many  faculty  meetings.  Nothing  plemned,  of  course.  Goodness!  Just  body  chemistry  and  shortsightedness.  Next  thing  I  knew,  there  was  a  sort  of  committee  standing  aroundme,  looking  solicitous.  A  Wel-  come  Wagon  group.  All  its  members  were  what,  on  the  corporeal  side,  we  used  to  refer  to  respectfully  as  &quot;dead.&quot;  Semantics.  Let  it  go.  At  first,  I  thought  I  was  still  at  the  meeting  andhad  passed  out  from  annoyance  and  bore-  dom.  I  had,  but  not  there.  The  trouble  is,  when  you-die-you  do  expect  something.  By  now,  I  think  I  could  even  enjoy  some  of  the  time-  honored  trappings.  Harpsand  wings  would  make  for  a  comparative  gala.  But  I  am  cooped  up  with  assorted  car-  nate  and  discarnate  entities  in  a  build-  ing  all  too  like  the  one  I  unintentionally  left.  It  is  a  monstrous  tile-and-alumi-  num  crate  with  dubious  people  and  plumbing,  thin  walls,  and  elevators  that  are  prone  to  stop  between  floors.  My  discarnate  colleagues  do  their  best  with  the  work  they've  been  assigned,  though  most  of  it  would  be  more  appropriate  in  a  different  kind  of  place.  Here  it's  all  so  obvious  and  old-hat.  Moans  and  footsteps,  icy  hands  and  muffled  gun-  shots.  No  wonder  some  of  the  car-  nates  just  blame  the  shoddy  building;  they  hear  creaks  and  groans  and  pops,  but  they  have  no  idea  they're  haunted.   Well,  not  all  of  them  think  that  way.  There  is  one  very  competent  lady  who  has  caught  on.  My  Mrs.  Ros-  burgh.  Home  to  26-C  she  comesfrom  her  flourishing  boutique.  Seven  o'clock  sharp.  Out  of  her  light  tweed  suit  and  into  the  raw-silk  at-home  robe  whose  colors,  as  she  seldom  loses  a  chance  to  say,  were  subtly  blended  in  4974616c79.  Din-  ner  alone,  inviting  vibrations  and  what-  not.  She  moonlights  as  a  medium,  and  I'm  her  damned  control;  I'm  told  it's  a  sophisticated  assignment.  Coffee  for  the  evening's  communicants  in  the  liv-  ing  room,  then  into  the  study  by  ten.  It's  nine-fifty-five  right  now.  I  am  expected,  though  I  would  rather  keep  on  looking  at  the  moon.  I  would  much  rather  stay  here  to  do  my  waiting  for  Alexandra's  inevitable  appearance.  She  has  some  kind  of  singing  or  crooning  assignment  in  Fairfield  County,  but  when  she's  free  she  turns  up  regularly.  I  am  certain  she  will  not  fail  tonight.  She  wanted  that  whisper  heard.  At  first,  a  month  ago,  I  thought  it  might  be  the  building  that  attracted  her.  She  does  seem  to  find  it  resplendent,  and  she  haunts  what  for  years  was  a  very  indifferent  old  bungalow.  But  then,  more  and  more,  I  came  to  feel  that  something  besides  the  building  brought  her.  That  I  did.  I  was  new  here,  and  still  confused,  and  I  wes  flattered.  I  guess  I  should  simply  say  that  I  was  stupid.  Ten  on  the  dot.  26-C.  Professor  Jason  Merriwether,  present  and  ac-  counted  for.  And  now  I  can  jolly  well  cool  my  heels  while  Mrs.  R.  goes  through  her  mumbo-jumbo  and  into  her  trance.  &quot;Do  you  think  you  could  find  Uncle  Timothy  tonight?&quot;  one  of  her  clients  will  ask  me.  &quot;Cousin  Betty?  Little  Susan?  Aaron  Burr?&quot;-  all  I  lack  is  a  bellhop's  uni-  form-&quot;Who  is  over  there  with  you?&quot;  I  shall  answer  as  honest-  ly  as  I  can.  Often  there  is  no  one.  There's  more  than  one  school  of  thought  here  about  clairvoyants.  Many  of  my  ac-  quaintances  don't  relish  being  summoned  out  of  hand,  and  when  they  are  they  tend  to  tell  whatever  tall  tale  comes  to  mind.  I  don't  approve,  but  I  admit  it  brightens  things.  'This  dimension  is  tedious  and  every  bit  as  absurd  as  the  other.  The  clients  want  a  cock-and-bull  story.  That's  what  they  come  for.  Pie  in  the  sky.  But-Alexandra.  Wasn't  she  part  of  that  initiation  crowd?  Well,  not  exactly.  She  looked  more  as  if  she  might  be  just  " b"tagging  along-grin-  ning,  and  bouncing  on  her  toes  to  get  a  good  look.  Pure  turn-of-the-  century,  in  a  ruffled  shirtwaist  and  a  little  straw  hat  pinned  on  top  of  a  pompadour,  and  that  great  long  skirt.  She  slipped  away  before  I  got  more  than  a  glimpse  of  her,  but  of  course  she  was  there.  All  along,  she  has  enchanted  and  then  appalled  me.  I  try  to  point  out  simple  facts  about  our  lot  to  her,  and  she  rejects  them.  I  tell  her  I  doubt  if  this  life  is  what  she  expect-  ed.  &quot;Oh,  do  be  more  patient,&quot;  she  will  an-  swer  briskly.  &quot;Remem-  ber  'Dust  thou  art  to  dust  returnest  was  not  spoken  of  the  soul&quot;?  It  turned  out  to  be  exact-  lyright,  so  far.  Here  we  are.&quot;  She  regards  this  building  as  a  probable  if  unforeseen  vestibule  of  Heaven,  though  at  least  she  doesn't  claim  that  itisi#.  &quot;Just  the  same,  it's  vast  and  it  gleams,&quot;  she  said,  the  first  time  we  discussed  it.  &quot;And  all  the  ter-  races  are  sunny.&quot;  She  is  full  of  hope  and  general  ap-  probation.  Though  perhaps  itis  un-  becoming  of  me  to  say  so  now,  she  is  utterly  naive.  Moreover,  she  is  incor-  rigibly  decent  to  carnates.  That's  not  done.  One  ignores,  or  annoys,  or  alarms  them-one  never  coddles.  She  says,  with  possessive  fondness,  that  the  couple  who  recently  came  and  reno-  vated  her  bungalow  are  very  up  to  date  and  educated-&quot;They're  people  like  you&quot;-and  talk  about  her  proudly  to  their  guests.  She  is  happy  to  feel  wanted,  though  she  seems  to  think  that  if  she'd  finished  college  instead  of  mar-  rying,  she  might  (like  me)  have  been  sent  to  haunt  a  vast  and  gleaming  man-  sion-even  this  one.  MRS.  RossurceH:  appears  to  be  ready  for  attunement.  Very  well,  dear  Mrs.  R.,  I  will  fetch  Colonel  Flemming.  I  will  ask  him  to  interrupt  his  monotonous  shooting  of  himself  with  that  derringer  and  think  himself  into  Apartment  26-C.  I  will  then  oblige  with  a  brief  word  of  introduc-  tion,  and  the  old  windbag  can  take  over  for  himself.  (One  of  our  clients,  a  soi-disant  &quot;Civil  War  buff,&quot;  is  per-  suaded  that  he  catches  the  full  fine  flavorof  cavalry  charges  when  the  Colonel  describes  his  part  in  them,  but  of  course  theyboth  make  it  all  up.  The  Colonel  was  in  the  Quartermaster  Corps.)  ...  Well,  done  and  done.  He  is  under  way.  She-Alexandra-has  satin  on  a  few  of  these  occasions,  and  they  upset  her.  I  upset  her.  All  these  people  seem  to  me  quite  as  they  must  have  been  in  the  other  dimension-pathetic  dream-  ers,  image-builders,  cheats-but  she  adamantly  refuses  to  see  them  so.  I  think  she  honestly  believes  in  progress  and  the  perfectibility  of  man.  There  it  is-Tennyson  and  friends,  on  one  plane  or  another.  And  she  says  if  the  Colonel  believes  himself-has  come  to  believe  himself-then  the  stories  he  tells  are  coming  true  for  him.  She  is  surethat  he  believes.  She  believes  Henry  Beeson.  Henry  was  a  painter,  'and  a  bad  one,  who  came  over  here  in  1922  after  a  rough  night  in  a  speak-  easy.  His  maiden  daughter,  now  fifty-  six,  badgers  him  for  the  particulars  of  our  life.  She's  convinced,  without  rea-  son,  that  she'll  be  coming  soon.  Poor  Henry's  in  a  way  to  go  mad.  He's  em-  barrassed  to  tell  the  truth  about  the  damned  building  and  our  cramped  and  senseless  existence,  and  he's  got  about  all  the  mileage  he  can  get  out  of  such  things  as  meadows  filled  with  unearth-  ly  light  and  the  fragrance  of  petals  never  known  to  corporeal  man,  which  he  says  are  strewn  over  the  meadows.  Alexandra  insists  that  Henry  has  surely  seen  them,.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  she  says-  begging,  I  swear.  &quot;How  do  we  know  he  hasn't?  Why  not?  Besides,  it's  per-  fectly  plain  that  he's  a  poet.&quot;  It  is  me  she  has  been  begging.  For  her,  there  are  no  doubts.  I  have  some-  times  teased  herabout  having  faith.  In  this  coop!  Faith!  And  she  looks  at  me  worriedly  and  says  she  couldn't  pos-  sibly  get  through  the  day  without  it.  She  says  it  apologetically,  as  if  perhaps  she  ought  to  know  better  but  can't  seem  to  help  herself.  And  then-and  this  is  one  of  the  things  that  might  have  warned  me-  there  was  that  matter  of  my  seven-  teenth-century  seminar.  She  and  I  were  talking  about  Mrs.  Daley,  whose  assign-  ment  is  merely  to  look  for  a  place  to  hide  a  pair  of  bloodstained  gloves.  But  she  rustles  and  bustles  (inaudibly)  into  26-C  and  there  delivers  reports  to  the  credulous  on  the  delicate  harmonies  that  pervade  the  air  here,  and  the  peo-  ple,  who  she  says  are  luminous.  Rub-  bish.  But  &quot;Just  because  we've  never  seen  them  that  way,  or  heard  the  mu-  sic,  does  that  prove  that  no  one  else  can?&quot;  says  Alexandra.  I  said  that  Daley  was  nothing  but  a  status-seeker,  but  she  went  right  on,  and  with  asperity,  though  usually  that  kind  of  bluntness  cuts  her  short.  &quot;Tell  me,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;can  you  ever  hear  mu-  sic  in  the  poems  of  John  Donne?&quot;  I  said  that  I  always  could.  &quot;The  day  before  you  came  over  here,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you  failed  a  very  nice  student-the  " b"one  with  the  little  red  beard-because  he  couldn't.  For  #0  other  reason.  Some-  times  you  are  very  harsh-&quot;  I  was  about  to  ask  who  gave  her  leave  to  spy  on  my  carnate  doings,  but  she  looked  so  stricken,  so  like  a  good  child  who  has  blurted  out  some  im-  pudence  to  its  elders,  that  I  thought  it  wise  to  let  the  whole  thing  rest.  Be-  sides,  it  made  me  uneasy.  And  what-  ever  else  there  is  here,  I  do  know  there  are  tears.  I  saw  her  eyes,  although  she  turned  away.  And  so,  last  night,  already  half  knowing  what  it  was  I  would  discover,  I  tried  to  add  up  what  I  knew  or  thought  I  knew  about  her:  That  she  had  come  uninvited  to  witness  my  ar-  rival.  That  she  haunts  that  bungalow  in  [REDACTED],  where  she  sings,  and  for  a  month,  since  I  arrived,  has  come  here  regularly  to  haunt  me.  There  is  no  other  way  to  put  it.  That  once-  quoting  some  relative,  and  not,  for  a  change,  a  late-Romantic  poet-she  had  used  what  apparently  was  her  nickname.  It  sounded  like  &quot;Dra.&quot;  A  baby  noise,  perhaps,  that  stuck  to  her.  It  meant  nothing  to  me,  but  I  won-  dered  if  it  shouldn't.  She  had  faith-  I  thought-and  hope  and  charity;  she  liked  wost  of  whate'er  she  looked  on.  I  knew  that  my  doubts  and  disbeliefs  disturbed  her  deeply,  and  that  a  mo-  ment's  harshness-and  something  else,  some  space  that  I  felt  she  wished  were  not  between  us-could  make  her  cry.  But  there  is  a  person  here  by  the  name  of  Huddleston,  who  drowned  in  [REDACTED],  and  I  remembered  that  she  liked  him.  She  said  he  was  edu-  cated,  and  that  there  were  Huddlestons  somewhere  back  in  her  family.  Dra  (I  thought).  Something-dra.  And  then  I  recalledthat  the  Huddlestons  were  re-  lated  to  the  Scovilles,  and  I  knew.  When  she  came,  a  little  later,  she  con-  firmed  it  with  that  whispered  remark.  She  was  chattering  about  Heaven,  in  which  she  still  unregenerately  believes,  without  in  the  least  presuming  to  say  what  it  is  like.  I  said  I  would  believe  in  it  if  I  got  there  and  found  they  let  heathen  in.  She  laughed  and  whis-  pered,  &quot;You  do  sound  like  your  fa-  ther,&quot;  and  then  she  went  away.  Her  name  is  Alexandra  Scoville  Merri-  wether,  and  she  is  my  mother.  She  preceded  me  here  by  just  under  sixty-two  years,  and  I  must  suppose  that  she  has  spent  them  waiting.  I  don't  yet  know  precisely  how  time  is  conceived  of  inthis  sphere.  Perhaps  it  and  longing  are  interchangeable;  they  often  seemed  so  in  the  other  one.  She  died  when  I  was  six  months  old,  and  Father  would  never  talk  about  her.  I  have  never  known  what  she  looked  like.  I  have  seen  photographs,  but  they  were  brown  and  blurred.  As  a  child,  I  fully  believed  that  she  would  come  and  fetch  me  to  a  gabled  house  on  a  glittering  river.  She  was  to  be  tall  and  stately  but  smiling,  deeply  aware  of  the  trials  of  her  son  confronted  by  tutors.  Later,  I  merely  longed  for  her  without  expecting  to  encounter  her,  ever  or  anywhere.  For  twenty-two  years,  I  was  younger  than  she,  and  forforty  I  have  steadily  grown  past  her,  and  that  must  be  why,  now  and  then,  she  suddenly  turns  shy-re-  spect  for  one's  elders,  the  mark  of  a  good  upbringing.  I  always  carried  her  back  of  my  thoughts,  and  though  I  knew  her  age,  she  was  also  always  older  than  I,  as  a  mother  has  tobe.  But  now  I  cannot  long  for  her  anymore,  and  I  am  a  trifle  afraid.  I  would  hate  to  lose  both  my  rare  little  friend  and  my  state-  ly,  smiling  mother.  Here  she  comes.  She  is  coming  toward  me  slowly  and  eying  me.  She  knows  that  at  last  I  know,  I  am  sure.  Now  she  hopes,  quite  formally,  that  she  is  not  intruding.  I  ask  her  please  to  join  me;  the  Colonel  is  still  trouncing  Jeb  Stuart  and  all  his  men.  I  feel,  eerily,  thatI  am  both  with  her-speaking  with  her-and  standing  aside,  witnessing  the  scene.  Our  con-  frontation.  There  is  a  wait-a  verifying  wait.  We  do  know.  I  ask  her  why  she  has  never  told  me  who  she  is,  and  she  says  she  had  hoped  I  would  guess  it  by  myself.  &quot;With  just  a  poke  or  two,  you  know,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  wasn't  sure  how  you'd  feel.&quot;  She  seems  much  less  a  mere  girl.  But  I  sidle  and  stumble  past  calling  her  &quot;Mother,&quot;  and  I  do  not  feel  I  can  call  her  &quot;Alexandra&quot;  to  her  face.  It  would  surely  not  seem  mannerly  to  someone  of  her  time.  She  smiles  one-sidedly.  &quot;You  could  just  go  on  calling  me  'you,&quot;  if  it's  easier,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  should  think  it  would  be,  at  least  for  a  while.&quot;  I  am  annoyed  with  myself-a  flus-  tered  elderly  child-and  she  reaches  out  a  mollifying  hand,  then  drops  it  diffidently.  Her  eyes  are  luminous.  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  I  contrive  to  say.  Then  suddenly  I  remember  the  red-  bearded  student,  and  a  whole  impossible  vista  opens  up.  It  is  filled  with  all  the  deeds  of  mine  nomother  of  mine  should  have  seen.  I  quickly  try  to  tell  her  how  often  I  have  wondered  about  her-wanted  to  know  her.  &quot;I  hoped  you  might,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I,  too.  It's  been  so  long.  Of  course,  I  have  my  cradle,  but-&quot;  &quot;Cradle?&quot;  &quot;I  rock  a  cradle  and  sing.  Near  Danbury,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  did  tell  you.&quot;  I  am  confused  once  more,  and  now  she  bursts  out  laughing.  &quot;Oh,  not  you!&quot;  she  says.  &quot;You're  grown.  Look  at  you!  This  is  an  empty  cradle.&quot;  She  turns  ex-  tremely  young  again,  and  as  abruptly  sad  as  when  I  scoff  at  hope.  &quot;I  suppose  it  was  considered  appropriate,  in  a  way-I  don't  know  how  such  matters  are  decided-and  of  course  I  mustn't  complain,  but  it  hasn't  altogether  been  a  comfort.&quot;  I  say  that  it  must  have  been  strange  to  her  to  have  me  growing  older,  on  and  on,  and  she  says  that  though  she  has     " b"  sometimes  felt  puffed  up  because  I  know  so  much,  she  liked  it  best  before  I  reached  her  age.  &quot;Things  seemed  more  as  they  should  be  then,  when  I  could  love  you-  Oh!  not  that  I  ...&quot;  *...  don't?&quot;  I  finish  for  her,  and  she  says,  &quot;Yes,  of  course,  of  course.&quot;  I  would  like  so  much  to  take  myself  across  that  space  between  us,  but  she  is  so  young.  Her  hat  teeters  on  her  pom-  padour.  &quot;I  do  not  wish  to  be  your  daughter,&quot;  she  says  vehemently.  &quot;And  that  is  how  I've  felt  ever  since  you  came  here.&quot;  That  would  be  because  of  the  years,  to  be  sure,  which  also  make  me  feel  all  too  like  her  father,  but  we  seem  to  be  reading  each  other's  mind,  or  nearly,  and  I  know  that  she  is  thinking  of  something  more.  She  is  thinking  of  the  ~  things  I  learned  once  I  went  past  her-  unperfected  man,  perhaps,  and  the  var-  ious  explosions  of  matter-the  things  that  have  made  me  doubt  what  she  is  so  sure  of.  She  says,  full  of  grief,  &quot;Ifonly  I  had  stayed  behind,  I  would  have  grown  old  and  known  the  things  that  you  know.  Maybe  I  would  see  them  as  you  do,  and  then  I  could  have  understood  you.  I  would  have  tried  to  be  with  you  all  along-that  would  be  only  right.  I  wish  I  had.&quot;  &quot;  If  she  had,  I  might  even  have  seen  them  otherwise,  though  I  am  not  sure  of  that.  But,  for  her  part,  she  would  have  passed  up  hope  and  Heaven  for  a  son,  and  I  would  dearly  love  to  give  him  to  her-in  that  cradleof  hers,  or  even  here,  tonight.I  wonder.  We  wait.  The  silence  stretches.  The  moon  pries  past  Mrs.  Rosburgh's  rich  draperies.  The  Colonel  finishes  his  bit  and  fades  away.  The  succeeding  client  is  asking  for  the  particulars  of  this  life.  It  is  an  elderly  widow,  frightened  and  hopeful,  and  through  the  agency  of  Mrs.  Ros-  burgh  I  tell  her  a  small  lie.  I  tell  her  that,  for  reasons  beyond  her  comprehension,  I  am  unable  to  sum-  mon  her  husband  to  talkto  her  tonight.  I  assure  her  that  he  remains  well  and  happy  and  will  speak  to  her  when  she  comes  again.  I  say  that,  in  his  absence,  I  will  myself  commune  with  her.I  will  tell  her  something  of  what  this  sphere  is  like.  Alexandra  is  watching  me  with  yearning  and,  plainly,  doubt.  I  have  never  seen  that  look  in  her  eyes  before.  I  hear  myself  begin,  to  the  elderly  wid-  ow,  &quot;Do  you,  by  chance,  know  these  lines  of  Alfred  Tennyson's?  Ifind  them  entirely  apt,  though  they  were  not,  to  begin  with,  meant  to  apply  to  this  place:  'There  is  sweet  music  here  that  softer  falls/Than  petals  from  blown  roses  on  the  grass.  &quot;  All  the  people  here-I  tell  her-  have  a  certain  light  about  them.  ...  My  mother  smiles,  and  I  continue."