 b"I HAD  my  first  encounter  with  an  I  imaginary  playmate  one  rainy  Sunday  evening  late  in  May,  a  couple  of  months  short  of  my  thirty-  fifth  birthday.  I  had  spent  most  of  that  drab  day  alone  in  my  sunless  apart-  ment  on  East  Tenth  Street,  listlessly  reading  my  way  through  the  Sunday  Times.  Feeling  blue,  brooding  and  lonely,  I  had  sighingly  tossed  aside  the  last  of  the  paper  sometime  around  six  o'clock.  &quot;I  am  in  a  Lewis  Funke,&quot;  I  muttered  to  myself,  and  then  realized  that  I  had  unconsciously  uttered  the  name  of  one  of  the  writers  of  the  Sun-  day  Times'  drama  section.  &quot;Meehan  you  both,  fella,&quot;  drawled  a  soft  voice,  making  a  pun  on  wy  sur-  name,  and  I  looked  up  to  see  an  amiable-looking  gentleman  sitting  op-  posite  me  in  my  sprung-springed  Mor-  ris  chair,.  He  was  grinning  from  ear  to  ear.  Somehow,  almost  mystically,  I  knew  that  he  was  Lewis  Funke.  &quot;Hi,  Mr.  Funke,&quot;  I  said  brightly,  feeling  suddenly  much  less  blue.  For  the  next  couple  of  hours,  after  I'd  served  us  both  Dilly  Beans  and  a  triple  Scotch-and-soda,  followed  by  a  Chun  King  TV  Chinese  dinner  (my  usual  Sunday-evening  fare),  Mr.  Funke  and  I  had  a  most  absorbing  talk  about  the  theatre,  cheerfully  chitchatting  about  &quot;Mame,&quot;  &quot;Hogan's  Goat,&quot;  and  the  tragic  sense  of  life  in  the  plays  of  Garcia  Lorca.  He  finally  left  my  apartment  at  about  eight,  off  to  catch  eleven  experi-  mental  one-acters  at  the  Caf\xc3\xa9  La  Mama,  and  I  saw  him  to  the  door.  &quot;Goodbye,  Mr.  Funke.  I  hope  to  see  you  again  real  soon,&quot;  I  said  happily.  &quot;It's  been  a  very  enjoyable  talk.&quot;  The  next  day,  I  felt  unusually  elated,  and  that  evening,  coming  home  from  work  at  about  seven,  I  even  wondered  whether  Mr.  Funke  might  not  be  waiting  on  my  doorstep.  In-  deed,  in  joyous  anticipation,  I  suddenly  broke  into  an  impromptu  gay  talese  (a  southern-Sicilian  folk  dance)  right  there  on  East  Tenth  Street.  All  too  soon,  however,  my  thoughts  drifted  to  the  twenty-eight-point  drop  my  Canadian  mining  stocks  had  taken  in  the  previous  two  days,  and  I  resumed  my  custom-  ary  plodding  pace.  When  I  entered  my  apartment,  there  was  no  one  there  but  Vartanig  G.  Vartan,  a  writer  for  the  Times'  financial  pages,  who  was  sitting  stolidly  in  my  Morris  chair.  Uh-oh,  I  thought,  I'm  in  for  a  tiresome  evening  of  tedious  talk  about  four-and-three-  quarter-per-cent  debentures,  soybean  futures,  and  the  gross-ugh-national  product.  I  discovered,  however,  that  Vartanig  G.  Vartan  is  of  Swedish  ex-  traction,  just  like  my  dentist  (what  a  coincidence!  ),  and  a  helluva  regular  guy.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  and  I  had  a  high  old  time  together  drinking  hot  glogg,  exchanging  ribald  Scandinavian  dialect  jokes,  and  marching  about  my  apartment  loudly  singing  Baltic  sea  chanteys.  Though  it  left  me  with  a  slight  hangover,  my  evening  with  Vartanig  (as  he  urged  me  to  call  him)  was  great  fun,  and  proved  to  be  only  one  of  a  series  of  fascinating  at-homes  in  my  apartment.  Almost  every  day,  I  would  stumble  home  from  work,  fix  myself  a  Scotch,  and  then,  as  I  nodded,  half  dazed,  over  the  back  columns  of  the  Times,  another  surprise  guest  would  suddenly  materialize  across  the  room.  My  callers  in  the  first  week,  for  ex-  ample,  included  Franklin  Whitehouse,  of  the  Times'  city  staff,  who  turned  up  to  sound  me  out  on  his  Presidential  am-  bitions,  and  Robert  Frost,  an  erstwhile  Times  financial  writer,  who  was  fond  of  reading  poetry  aloud  to  me,  includ-  ing  &quot;Stopping  by  Woods  on  a  Snowy  Evening,&quot;  &quot;The  Death  of  the  Hired  Man,&quot;  and  &quot;Mending  Wall.&quot;  One  es-  pecially  memorable  Saturday  night  in  carly  June,  Gerald  Eskenazi,  Peter  Kihss,  and  Tad  Szule  came  over  for  an  evening  of  no-holds-barred  Scrabble.  All  through  June  and  July,  in  fact,  scarcely  a  night  passed  that  one  or  an-  other  of  the  gang  from  the  Times  didn't  show  up  for  a  few  hours  of  drinks,  causerie,  and  chuckles.  Nor,  I'm  pleased  to  report,  was  I  neglected  by  the  ladies  of  the  Times.  Nan  Ickeringill  began  to  drop  in  with  heartwarming  regularity  to  prepare  candlelit  Chun  King  TV  Chinese  dinners  for  two;  Tania  Long  came  around  one  evening  to  explain  Foale  &amp;  Tuffin  to  me;  and  the  lovely  Sanka  Knox  twice  dropped  by  for  an  intimate  demitasse  of  caffeine-  free  coffee.  My  playmates,  I  should  perhaps  ex-  plain,  didn't  abruptly  materialize  in  a  puff  of  smoke,  like  Mephistopheles  making  his  entrance  in  &quot;Faust,&quot;  or  fade  shimmeringly  into  view,  like  Billie  Burke  in  &quot;The  Wizard  of  Oz.&quot;  Curi-  ously,  they  tended  to  show  up  feet  first.  At  an  unexpected  moment-say,  when  I  was  crouched  menacingly  in  the  mid-  dle  of  my  living  room,  practicing  my  correspondence-course  karate  lessons-  I'd  suddenly  spy  a  pair  of  brown,  wing-  tipped  Florsheim  shoes  fidgeting  under  the  coffee  table.  Next,  as  though  a  cur-  tain  was  being  slowly  raised,  I'd  see  a  pair  of  white  cotton  anklets,  the  trou-  sers  of  an  aquamarine  Harry  Rothman  suit,  a  rumpled  jacket  with  a  paper-  back  Roget's  Thesaurus  peeping  from  a  pocket,  and  a  loosened  purple-and-  yellow  Scot  tie,  the  ensemble  topped  off  by  a  balding,  Timmes-staffier  head,  and-uvoild!-I  was  in  the  presence  of  " b"a  second-string  City  Hall  reporter!  Or,  when  I  was  fortunate  enough  to  be  visited  by  one  of  the  ladies  of  the  Times,  I  would  first  note  a  pair  of  chic  Guccis  peeking  coyly  up  at  me  from  in  front  of  my  Morris  chair.  When  my  play-  mates  left  for  the  night,  they  went  out  in  the  opposite  direction,  head  first.  I'd  be  babbling  en-  thusiastically  away  with,  say,  Franklin  White-  house,  when  the  top  of  his  head  would  vanish,  as  though  it  had  been  lopped  off  by  a  machete.  Within  ten  seconds,  I'd  be  talking  to  a  pair  of  knees,  and  within  fifteen  I'd  be  alone  again.  ATE  at  night,  aft-  er  my  stimulating  guest  or  guests  of  the  evening  had  left,  I  would  try  to  relax,  but  I  found  that  I  couldn't  get  their  names  out  of  my  head-Emanuel  Perlmutter,  Enid  Nemy,  Allison  Danzig,  Barbara  Plumb.  ...  Instead  of  watching  &quot;The  Late  Late  Show,&quot;  I  took  to  lying  in  bed  and  dreaming  upmovies  that  involved  me  and  my  friends  from  the  Times:  &quot;Harry,  Sam  Zolotow  presents  T.  Epwarp  [me]  in  FIT  TO  PRINT  a  pulsating  drama  of  life  on  one  of  [REDACTED]'s  leading  metropolitan  daily  newspapers-  Also  starring:  CRAIG  CLAIBORNE&amp;  ANGELA  TAYLOR  with  Francis  X.  Clines  Bernadine  Morris  and  Damon  Stetson  and  introducing  ***  Marylin  Bender  ***  Screenplay  by  Martin  Tolchin  and  Sidney  E.  Zion,  from  an  original  idea  by  Isadore  Barmash.  DIRECTED  BY  FRANK  M.  BLUNK  Before  long,  I  became  so  consum-  ingly  involved  with  my  newfound  Times  circle  that  I  abandoned  all  of  my  previous  interests,  even  listening  to  modern  music.  After  all,  I  decided,  who  needs  Schoenberg  when  he's  got  Schonberg,  Schanberg,  Herzberg,  and  Gansberg?  And  how  could  anyone  go  on  caring  about  the  National  League  pennant  race-Juan  Marichal,  Sandy  Koufax,  and  the  rest-when  he  was  on  first-name  terms  with  Juan  de  Onis,  Sal  &quot;'The  Barber&quot;  Nuceio,  and  Russell  &quot;Home-Run&quot;  Baker?  Naturally  enough,  I  told  no  one  at  my  office  about  the  nightly  goings  on  at  my  apartment,  but  casually  I  be-  gan  to  drop  the  names  of  some  of  the  Timescrowd  around  the  water  cooler.  When  I  was  asked  one  day  if  I  knew  a  good  stockbroker,  I  suavely  replied,  &quot;I  always  use  John  Canaday.  He's  a  senior  partner  down  on  the  Street,  you  know,  with  Canaday,  Crowther  &amp;  Gould.&quot;  Soon  I  was  bragging  to  every-  one  about  my  doctor,  Howard  A.  Rusk,  M.D.,  and  my  lawyer,  Werner  Bamberger,  the  great  courtroom  ex-  pert  on  sanity  hearings,  who  is,  of  course,  top  dog  over  at  Bamberger,  Bigart  &amp;  Burks.  I'm  afraid  I  even  became  a  bit  snooty.  &quot;Well,  off  to  the  Racquet  Club  for  a  little  squash  with  Eliot  Fremont-Smith,&quot;  I'd  say  lightly  on  my  way  out  to  lunch.  Or  I'd  let  everyone  know  that  I  was  weekending  at  Clive  Barnes'  place  in  Southampton,  or  that  I  had  spent  the  previous  evening  playing  whist  at  the  Lotos  Club  with  Byron  Por-  terfield,  Cabell  Phillips,  and  Clayton  Knowles.  Meanwhile,  through  the  dog  days  of  August,  my  new  routine  continued.  In  the  mornings,  I  would  read  my  friends'  hot  copy  in  the  Times,  and  in  the  eve-  nings  we  would  have  hot  times  down  at  my  place.  On  Labor  Day,  Vartanig  G.  Vartan,  Ben  A.  Franklin  (a  master  of  the  one-line  maxim),  Rita  Reif,  Grace  Glueck,  and  Ada  Louise  Hux-  table  materialized  for  a  madcap  eve-  ning  of  dinner,  drinks,  and  dancing  to  my  Vaughn  Monroe  records.  At  about  2  AM.,  though,  when  we'd  all  per-  haps  had  a  trifle  too  much  sloe  gin,  the  aging  widow  who  lives  in  the  apart-  ment  below  mine  came  banging  angrily  at  my  door.  &quot;You  and  your  rowdy  friends  have  got  to  stop  all  that  shout-  ing  in  there!&quot;  she  said  furiously.  &quot;This  is  no  hour  for  a  party!&quot;  I  opened  the  door  and  cautiously  stuck  out  my  head.  &quot;There's  no  party  going  on,&quot;  I  croaked  nervously.  &quot;I'm  in  here  all  alone.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yeah,  Mr.  Wise  Guy?  How  about  all  that  giggling  in  there?&quot;  &quot;Uh,  it  must  have  been  the  TV.  Sorry,&quot;  I  mumbled,  smiling  weakly  and  hurriedly  pushing  the  door  shut  in  her  face.  When  I  turned  back  to  my  guests,  however,  I  was  dismayed  to  find  that  I  really  was  alone.  &quot;Hey,  where's  everybody  gone?&quot;  I  cried.  &quot;I  mean,  it's  early  yet,  so  come  on  back!  There  are  plenty  more  Dilly  Beans,  and  if  you'll  just  reappear  I'll  play  'Dance,  Bal-  lerina,  Dance'  again.&quot;  There  was  a  silence,  broken  only  by  the  click  of  melting  ice  in  an  abandoned  glass.  &quot;Hey,  please  come  back,&quot;  I  said  desperately,  but  my  Times  guests  had  gone  for  the  night.  Indeed,  that  was  the  last  I  saw  of  any  of  them.  Though  I  headed  home  hopefully  from  the  office  each  night  for  the  next  month  laden  " b"down  with  paper  hats,  party  snacks,  and  extra  ice  cubes,  my  apartment  remained  empty  when  I  got  there.  Looking  back  on  it  now,  I  can  only  conclude  that  my  fabulous  new  friends  had  somehow  discovered  that  I  had  stopped  reading  the  Times.  You  see,  on  the  Wednesday  before  Labor  Day,  feeling  a  slight  case  of  the  hoo-ha's  coming  on,  I  had  visited  my  psychia-  trist,  Dr.  Kopfschmerz.  When  I  told  him  about  my  Times  visitors,  he  dropped  his  pince-nez,  hurriedly  swal-  lowed  a  couple  of  green  pills,  and  then  emphatically  ordered  me  to  stop  read-  ing  the  Times  for  at  least  six  months.  Reluctantly,  I  followed  his  orders.  After  that,  my  life  went  swiftly  and  sadly  back  to  normal-that  is,  it  be-  came  very  lonely  again-but  then,  one  Friday  evening  a  couple  of  weeks  ago,  matters  took  a  new  turn.  All  evening  long,  alone  in  my  apartment,  I'd  been  feeling  hopelessly  bored,  and  at  about  ten  o'clock,  after  I  had  watched  &quot;Tarzan&quot;  on  television,  played  a  couple  of  rub-  bers  of  Autobridge,  practiced  juggling  a  saltcellar,  a  sugar  bowl,  and  a  gravy  ladle  for  ahalf  hour  or  so  (in  case  I  was  ever  invited  to  a  party  ),  and  mem-  orized  the  copy  on  a  Crest  toothpaste  tube,I  found  myself  reduced  to  the  final  pastime  of  the  hopelessly  bored-  reading  the  names  on  the  masthead  of  Time.  &quot;I  am  at  Luce  ends,&quot;  I  muttered  to  myself,  dropping  the  maga-  zine,  and  at  once  a  bulky,  beetle-  browed  gentleman,  Henry him-  self,  appeared  in  my  Morris  chair.  &quot;Well,  why  don't  you  sing  yourself  a  couple  of  choruses  of  Meehan  My  Shadow&quot;?&quot;  boomed  Mr.  Luce,  guf-  fawing  heartily  at  his  own  pun.  &quot;That's  very  comical,  Mr.  Luce,&quot;  I  said  brightly,  and  at  that  moment  there  began  a  new  chapter  in  my  life  with  imaginary  playmates-one  that  is  still  going  on.  Not  a  single  evening  has  passed  since  that  I  haven't  been  visited  by  either  Mr.  Luce  or  one  of  his  Time  staffers.  And  happy  evenings  they  are,  too.  After  all,  who  needs  Vartanig  G.  Vartan  or  Nan  Ickeringill  when  he  has  friends  like  Barker  T.  Hartshorn,  Gurney  Breckenfeld,  Cranston  Jones,  Joanne  Funger,  Rosemarie  Tauris  Za-  dikov,  and  Fortunata  Sydnor  Vander-  schmidt? "