 b"Mrs.  Brauw,  when  fishing  for  M  Scrabble  letters,  cheated,  and  everybody  knew  but  no  one  mentioned  it.  She  kept  the  letters  in  a  drawstring  bag;  when  it  was  herturn  to  choose  new  ones,  she  would  thrust  her  thick  old  hand  in  right  up  to  the  wrist  and  carefully  finger  each  wooden  piece  to  feel  if  it  was  the  one  she  want-  ed.  Then  she  would  set  the  letters  on  the  rack  in  front  ofher,  pouching  her  cheeks  a  little  with  satisfaction.  The  first  time  she  noticed  it,  Joanna  said,  &quot;What?&quot;-not  to  Mrs.  Brauw  but  to  Joanna's  mother,  who  was  play-  ing  also.  She  was  asking  if  what  she  saw  could  be  true.  But  her  mother  said,  &quot;It's  your  turn,  Joanna,&quot;  and  the  quick  way  she  said  it  told  Joanna  that  she  wasn't  to  mention  it  again.  Mrs.  Brauw  was  their  landlady.  She  was  letting  them  have  their  house  for  half  rent  un-  til  Joanna's  father  got  out  of  the  sana-  torium  and  onto  his  feet  again.  For  that  reason,  Joanna  and  her  mother  did  their  best  to  give  Mrs.  Brauw  some  company-as  often  as  four  nights  a  week  sometimes,  which  was  more  than  anybody  could  really  want  to  play  Scrabble.  For  that  reason,  too,  Joanna  supposed,  they  were  not  going  to  men-  tion  Mrs.  Brauw's  cheating.  But  going  home  that  evening,  through  the  gap  in  the  hedge  that  sepa-  rated  their  houses,  Joanna  said,  &quot;Did  you  see  what  she  did?&quot;  \xc2\xabWell,  she's  old,&quot;  her  mother  said.  Joanna  thought  that  over  a  minute-she  was  only  sixteen  herself,  and  not  sure  what  age  could  do  to  people-and  then  she  said,  &quot;If  she's  so  old,  does  it  matter  if  she  wins  or  loses  a  little  parlor  game?&quot;  &quot;It  must,&quot;  her  moth-  er  said.  Mrs.  Brauw  played  Scrabble  in  a  purple  vel-  vet  chair  worn  through  to  the  white  threads  on  either  arm.  She  sat  like  a  hump  of  doughy  cirecles-an  old,  thin-  mouthed  moon  face,  a  huge  bosom,  a  stomach,  which  was  the  most  per-  fect  circle  of  all.  Her  fingers,  curled  over  the  arms  of  the  chair,  gave  a  little  under  the  great  stones  of  her  antique  rings.  And  whenever  Joanna  bent  under  the  card  table  to  pick  up  a  dropped  letter,  she  could  see  the  two  wide  ovals  of  Mrs.  Brauw's  legs,  set  sturdily  apart  beneath  the  hem  of  her  shiny  black  dress,  draped  in  wrinkled,  flesh-colored  stockings  and  ending  in  high-heeled,  old-lady  shoes.  Mrs.  Brauw's  legs  were  almost  useless  now.  She  had  broken  her  hip  in  middle  age,  in  the  accident  that  had  killed  her  husband,  and  it  had  not  healed  proper-  ly.  Since  then,  she  had  lived  out  her  life  in  the  velvet  chair,  to  which  she  walked  each  morning  with  the  help  of  a  metal  stand  and  her  old-maid  daughter,  Miss  Beatrice.  Her  days  were  spent  in  play-  ing  with  her  real-estate  holdings-to  hear  her  talk,  they  might  have  been  toy  houses  in  a  game  of  Monopoly,  to  which  she  had  been  addicted  before  Scrabble  came  along-and  in  the  evenings  she  played  Scrabble  with  Miss  Beatrice.  Miss  Beatrice  and  whoever  else  would  come,  like  Mrs.  Hope  and  Joanna,  re-  appearing  evening  after  evening  out  of  a  sense  of  several  kinds  of  duty.  Mrs.  Brauw  playing  Scrabble  was  like  someone  waking  up  from  a  long  sleep.  When  Mrs.  Hope  and  Joanna  crossed  from  their  house  to  hers  (with  Joanna  saying,  over  and  over,  &quot;Mama,  I  have  lots  of  better  things  to  do,&quot;  and  Mrs.  Hope  saying,  &quot;Now,  she's  a  lone-  ly  old  lady,  and  we'll  go  home  early&quot;),  they  could  see  her  sitting  in  the  lighted window,  her  chin  on  her  chest,  her  eyes  nearly  closed.  They  would  ring  the  doorbell,  and  Miss  Beatrice  would  lead  them  in.  By  then  Mrs.  Brauw  would  have  raised  her  head,  but  she  still  had  her  sleepy  look,  and  she  didn't  talk  much.  &quot;Oh,  come  to  see  me,  have  you,&quot;  she  would  say,  but  that  was  all.  Until  Miss  Beatrice  brought  out  the  Scrabble  board,  which  was  worn  almost  in  two  from  being  folded  and  unfolded  so  much.  Then  she  would  sit  up,  shift-  ing  her  bulk  forward  suddenly  in  the  velvet  chair  and  letting  her  face  move  out  of  its  heavy  stillness.  &quot;Care  for  a  little  game?&quot;  she  would  say,  as  if  it  were  a  new  ideathat  had  suddenly  come  to  her.  &quot;Beatrice  loves  it  so  much,&quot;  she  would  explain.  Miss  Bea-  trice  hated  Scrabble.  She  was  a  bony,  middle-aged  woman,  with  gray  hair,  and  she  always  wore  a  purple  cardigan.  When  she  played,  she  tightened  her  lips  and  slapped  the  letters  down  crisply.  For  the  rest  of  her  life,  whenever  Joan-  na  heard  someone  speak  of  an  old  maid  she  would  picture  Miss  Beatrice  in  her  purple  cardigan,  totalling  Scrabble  scores  with  angry  little  jots.  Almost  always  it  was  Mrs.  Brauw  who  began  the  game,  since  who  would  be  first  was  determined  by  drawing  a  letter.  She  took  her  time  about  choos-  ing,  frowning  into  thin  air  and  moving  her  lips  slightly  as  she  fished  in  the  drawstring  bag.  Once,  Joanna  tried  to  cheat,  just  to  show  she  knew  what  was  going  on,  but  the  mark-  ings  on  the  little  blocks  meant  nothing  to  her  fin-  gers  and  she  had  to  stopy  because  her  mother  was  frowning  at  her.  So  it  was  still  Mrs.  Brauw  who  played  first-hunching  her  shoulders  forward,  tapping  one  fingernail  on  the  card  table,  and  grunt-  ing  as  she  debated  what  would  bring  the  highest  score.  She  made  words  that  brought  in  a  fantastic  number  of  points  But  Miss  Beatrice's  points  were  always  more,  even  if  she  had  to  take  fifteen  minutes  each  turn  to  think  up  something  that  would  top  her  mother.  The  war  was  between  them  really;  they  played  intensely,  and  watched  to  see  that  they  did  not  give  each  other  any  opportunities  for  tri-  ple-word  scores.  On  the  outskirts  sat  Mrs.  Hope  and  Joanna,  looking  very  " b"dark-haired  and  bright-  skinned  beside  the  two  old  women,  lay-  ing  down  their  own  modest  words,  which  seemed  almost  inci-  dental  to  the  real  game.  When  their  turns  were  over,  Mrs.  Brauw  would  say  &quot;Aha!&quot;  and  snap  her  dictionary  shut  and  hunch  herself  for-  ward  again.  Sheseldom  even  looked  at  Mrs.  Hope's  and  Joanna's  words,  unless  they  had  taken  up  aspace  she  was  planning  to  use.  Then  she  grew  silently  angry,  and  beetled  her  eyebrows  and  shifted  herself  around  in  her  chair.  &quot;You  wasted  it,&quot;  she  said  one  evening  to  Joanna.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  \xc2\xabN,  paca  &quot;'That  space  there.  3  You  wasted  it.  Such  an  ordinary  word  you  put  down.  I  could  have  made  forty  points  out  of  that.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  your  turn,&quot;  Joanna  said.  &quot;You  should  have  left  it  to  me,  anyway.  Did  you  have  to  spoil  it  for  us  all?&quot;  Joanna  would  have  stood  up  and  left,  and  slammed  the  doorbehind  her,  but  her  mother's  look  was  asking  her  please  to  let  it  pass.  Even  so,  she  had  to  say  something.  She  waited  until  Mrs.  Brauw  was  feeling  for  new  letters  in  the  bag,  and  then  she  said,  &quot;'How  did  you  work  it  in  Monopoly?  What  can  you  do  underhanded  when  you're  play-  ing  Monopoly?&quot;  &quot;Eh?&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  &quot;She  was  the  one  who  kept  the  bank,&quot;  Miss  Beatrice  said.  Both  Joanna  and  her  mother  stared  at  Miss  Beatrice.  They  had  never  thought  about  whether  she  noticed  Mrs.  Brauw's  tricks,  and  they  hadn't  expected  her  to  speak  out  even  if  she  did;  she  was  very  soft-spoken,  and  had  a  way  of  seeming  to  fade  out  right  while  she  was  sitting  in  her  chair.  But  Miss  Beatrice  ignored  their  looks,  and  simply  snapped  another  word  down  on  the  board  and  folded  her  long  hands  in  her  lap.  That  night,  Joanna  told  her  mother  she  wouldn't  go  over  to  Mrs.  Brauw's  ever  again.  She  said,  &quot;I'm  sorry,  there's  nothing  that  can  make  me,&quot;  and  her     mother  sighed  and  said,  &quot;Oh,  well,  I  can't  say  as  I  blame  you.&quot;  &quot;You  can  go  without  me,&quot;  Joanna  said.  &quot;You  can  just  say  I  have  exams  coming  up.&quot;  &quot;'To  tell  the  truth,  I  don't  think  P'll  go  back  myself,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;She's  a  lonely  old  lady,  and  I  feel  sor-  ry  for  her,  but  Ican't  take  many  more  of  those  evenings.&quot;  -  After  that  they  stayed  at  home,  ex-  cept  for  Sundays,  when  they  visited  Mr.  Hope  at  the  sanatorium,  and  three  weeks  went  by  without  their  seeing  the  Brauws  at  all.  Then  Miss  Beatrice  called  on  the  telephone.  She  talked  to  Joanna.  Her  voice  seemed  very  thin  and  far  away,  and  she  kept  clearing  her  throat,  as  if  she  were  shy  about  some-  thing.  &quot;My  mother  suggested  I  call  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;She  was  wondering  if  you  would  care  for  a  game  of  Scrab-  ble.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  have  some  studying,&quot;  Jo-  anna  said.&quot;I'll  get  Mama  for  you,  though.&quot;  But  her  mother  told  Miss  Beatrice  that  she  was  busy,  too.  Her  reasons  sounded  made-up  to  Joanna-too  many  of  them,  all  vague-and  when  she  had  hung  up  she  said,  &quot;Oh  dear,     I  should  have  gone.  I  didn't  want  to  hurt  their  feelings.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Miss  Beatrice  Joanna  said.  &quot;We  don't  know  that.&quot;  &quot;She  has  all  but  said  so.  It'll  be  a  relief  to  her.&quot;  But  her  mother  still  looked  upset.  The  next  Saturday  evening,  Mrs.  Brauw  herself  called.  She  said,  &quot;Jo-  anna,  I  would  like  to  speak  with  your  mother,&quot;  in  her  loud,  toneless  voice.  When  Mrs.  Hope  came  to  the  phone,  wiping  her  hands  on  her  apron,  she  whispered  to  Joanna,  &quot;What  will  I  say?&quot;  &quot;Say  you  don't  want  to,&quot;  Joanna  told  her.  But  Mrs.  Hope  ended  up  saying  yes,  after  giving  a  few  halfhearted  excuses  first.  &quot;I  felt  so  sorry  for  her,&quot;  she  told  Joanna  later.  &quot;Oh,  she  sounds  as  if  it  couldn't  matter  less,  but  what  she  wants  is  just  a  little  company.&quot;  And  she  put  on  her  coat  and  went  over  to  the  Brauws',  leaving  Joanna  alone.  That  was  in  April.  By  May,  Joanna  had  started  going  also,  not  because  she  felt  any  different  but  because  it  made  her  sad  to  see  her  mother  set  off  by  herself,  knowing  she  didn't  enjoy " b"it.  When  Joanna  came,  Mrs.  Brauw  didn't  comment,  beyond  saying,  &quot;Oh.  Your  exams  are  over.&quot;  It  was  the  same  as  before,  except  that  the  Hopes  didn't  go  quite  as  often,  and  Mrs.  Brauw  did  not  point  out  how  ordinary  Joanna's  words  were.  They  sat  in  the  same  places  at  the  card  table,  surround-  ing  Mrs.  Brauw  in  her  velvet  chair,  pretending  not  to  watch  as  she  frowned  over  the  drawstring  bag.  Sometimes  Joanna  would  look  toward  the  dark-  ened  window  and  catch  sight  of  their  reflections,  framed  by  dusty  lace  cur-  tains-the  four  pale  faces  unmoving  in  the  glass,  with  Joanna  and  her  mother  wearing  the  only  colors  that  showed  up  at  all.  Always  the  reflection  showed  Miss  Beatrice  looking  down  at  her  hands,  with  her  long  thin  nose  casting  a  sharp  shadow,  and  Mrs.  Brauw  craning  her  neck  intently  toward  the  board.  The  two  of  them  did  not  seem  to  be  related;  it  was  strange  to  see  them  even  framed  in  the  same  glass  together.  ON  the  first  Thursday  night  in  June,  when  Joanna  had  gone  to  bed  but  kept  waking  after  troubled  dreams,  she  turned  over  on  her  side  and  found  that  one  wall  of  her  room  was  lit  with  an  orange  glow  that  flickered.  She  sat  up  and  looked  out  her  window.  There  beyond  the  hedge  was  Mrs.  Brauw's  house,  burning  high,  lighting  the  leaves  of  the  trees  beside  it  so  that  the  under-  sides  of  them  gleamed  weirdly.  Flames  had  climbed  the  whole  end  wall-  three  full  stories-but  from  her  win-  dow  Joanna  couldn't  see  how  far  they  had  overtaken  the  rest  of  the  house.  She  jumped  out  of  bed  and  ran  to  beat  on  her  mother's  door,  &quot;Mama!  Mama,  wake  Brauws'  house  is  on  fire!&quot;  Her  mother  murmured  something  sharply,  and  creaked  the  springs  of  her  bed.  &quot;Quick,  phone  the  firemen!&quot;  she  called.  &quot;I'm  coming  right  out.&quot;  But  Joanna  couldn't  find  the  num-  ber  and  was  standing  shaking  in  her  pajamas,  holding  the  phone  book  in  her  hand,  when  her  mother  came  out  and  took  the  receiver  from  her.  &quot;I'll  call,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Do  you  see  the  Brauws  outside  anywhere?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  said  Joanna,  but  after  that  one  glance  from  her  window  she  hadn't  looked  again.  The  silence  of  those  flames  eating  away  at  the  huge  pillared  house  had  seemed  as  strange  and  eerie  as  another  nightmare,  and  when  she  triedto  picture  Mrs.  Brauw  and  her  daughter  inside,  all  she  could  see  was  their  reflections  in  the  dark  window  as  they  sat  over  their  Scrabble  board.  &quot;Mrs.  Brauw  can't  walk,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Miss  Beatrice  is  there,&quot;  said  her  mother.  When  her  mother  had  called  the  fire  department,  they  both  went  outside  and  pushed  their  way  through  the  gap  in  the  hedge.  Even  from  there,  the  heat  of  the  flames  burned  their  faces.  &quot;''They  might  not  be  awake,&quot;  Mrs.  Hope  said.  &quot;Where  do  they  sleep,  I  wonder?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  &quot;Go  around  the  back  of  the  house  and  shout  their  names.  I'll  take  the  front.  Be  careful,  now.&quot;  Mrs.  Hope  moved  off,  the  tail  end  of  her  worn  chenille  bathrobe  dragging  in  the  wet  grass,  and  after  watching  shouting,  up!  The  OCTOBER  29,  1966  her  for  a  minute  Joanna  turned  and  went  the  other  way.  She  was  so  afraid  that  her  teeth  were  chattering;  fire  had  always  been  the  one  thing  that  terrified  her.  At  everyminute,  she  could  picture  the  flaming  end  of  the  house  suddenly  swaying  and  falling,  crushing  her  beneath  it,  but  when  she  reached  the  back  she  found  that  the  fire  had  just  begun  to  spread  there.  Almost  a  third  of  the  house  was  dark  still,  its  windows  black  and  cool-look-  ing.  Joanna  shouted,  &quot;Mrs.  Brauw!  Miss  Beatrice!  Mrs.  Brauw!&quot;  She  picked  up  a  rock  and  threw  it  at  a  pane  of  glass,  meaning  only  to  cause  a  clatter,  but  the  rock  burst  through  the  window  and  the  glass  tinkled  faintly  inside  the  house.  It  was  like  dropping  a  stone  in  a  bottomless  well,  Joanna  thought.  All  that  answered  her  was  a  deeper  silence,  and  she  con-  tinued  around  the  other  end  of  the  house,  still  calling  but  never  hearing  a  reply.  When  she  reached  the  front  yard,  the  fire  engine  was  just  drawing  up,  its  siren  wailing,  and  in  a  couple  of  houses  down  the  road  the  upstairs  lights  were  switching  on.  Joanna's  mother  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  lawn,  her  face  seeming  constantly  to  change  expres-  sion  because  of  the  flames'  flickering.  'There!&quot;  she  said.  She  hugged  Joan-  na  with  one  arm  and  pointed  upward.  &quot;There's  Mrs.  Brauw.  Do  you  see  her?&quot;  she  asked  one  of  the  firemen.  &quot;Yes,  Ma'am.  We'll  have  her  out  in  half  asecond,&quot;  &quot;She  is  crippled.  And  her  daughter's  in  there-I  don't  know  where.&quot;  Mrs,  Brauw  was  wearing  a  night-  gown,  ablack  one  with  straps,  like  a  slip.  She  was  in  a  second-story  window  just  a  short  distance  from  the  flames,  and  she  was  hanging  on  very  hard,  her  fingers  reaching  out  to  grip  the  outside  ledge.  Heaven  only  knew  where  her  metal  stand  was.  When  she  saw  the  firemen,  she  began  shouting,  &quot;Here!  Here!,&quot;  with  her  voice  as  flat  and  toneless  as  ever.  At  the  same  moment,  Joanna  called  out,  &quot;There!,&quot;  so  that  she  and  Mrs.  Brauw  seemed  to  be  talking  at  cross-  purposes,  because  she  thought  she  had  caught  sight  of  Miss  Beatrice.  She  was  in  a  window  on  the  very  edge  of  the  fire,  closer  to  it  eventhan  her  mother  was,  But  when  Mrs.  Hope  said,  &quot;Where?&quot;  and  Joanna  pointed,  there  was  nobody  there.  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  her  mother  asked.  Joanna  shook  her  head.  It  had  only  been  a  glimpse-that  was  all-out  of  the  corner  of  her  eye.  And  anyway,  if  it  had  been  Miss  Beatrice,  would  she  " b"have  looked  like  that?  Standing  ab-  solutely  straight  and  still  behind  a  dark  windowpane,  her  hands  resting  on  the  sill,  the  purple  cardigan  thrown  over  her  shoulders?  Joanna  said,  &quot;I  must  have  been  sc-ing  things,&quot;  and  her  mother  turned  back  to  watch  Mrs.  Brauw.  T  wo  firemen  had  to  climb  the  ladder  for  her-she  was  that  helpless,  and  she  weighed  that  much.  One  went  in  through  the  window,  and  he  helped  lift  her  out  while  the  second  fireman  stood  by  to  receive  her.  First  came  her  bare  feet  and  her  legs,  which  seemed  very  white  without  the  flesh-colored  stock-  ings,  and  one  hand  to  tug  her  night-  gown  down.  Then  the  rest  of  her,  all  hunched  up  because  the  fireman  was  holding  her  under  the  arms.  What  Joanna  noticed  most,  though,  was  how  strange  and  expressionless  Mrs.  Brauw's  face  was.  She  was  looking  far  away,  her  eyes  unblinking,  and  her  head  bobbed  with  every  step  downward  that  the  firemen  took.  They  carried  her  straight  to  Mrs.  Hope  and  Joanna,  where  they  set  her  down.  One  of  the  men  said,  &quot;She's  all  right,  I  think.  You  said  there  was  a  daughter.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  -Where?&quot;  Mrs.  Hope  asked  Mrs.  Brauw.  &quot;Where  does  your  daugh-  ter  sleep,  Mrs.  Brauw?&quot;  &quot;I  was  unable  to  move,&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  &quot;I  heard  the  roar  of  the  flames.  I  could  feel  them  getting  closer.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Ma'am,&quot;  said  the  fireman.  &quot;You'll  have  to  tell  us  where  your  daugh-  ter  is,  now.&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  raised  her  head.  From  her  seat  on  the  ground  she  surveyed  her  firelit  yard-the  overturned  lawn  chairs,  the  truck  in  the  flower  bed,  the  firemen  running  up  and  down  in  their  glistening  coats,  un-  rolling  hoops  of  hose  be-  hind  them.  &quot;They  will  never  save  that  house,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  daughter,  Ma'am.  Quick-we  got  no  time.&quot;  &quot;She's  in  that  end,&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  She  pointed  to  the  left,  toward  where  Joanna  had  thought  she  saw  Miss  Bea-  trice.  The  part  she  indi-     cated  was  only  a  bank  of  flames  now,  with  hardly  anything  left  standing  un-  der  it.  &quot;In  there?&quot;  said  the  fireman.  (\xe2\x80\x98YeS.))  He  looked  at  her  a  minute,  and  then  he  touched  his  long-brimmed  hat  and  said,  &quot;Well,  I'm  sorry,  then,  but  there's  nothing  we  can  do.  I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;I  understand,&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  Mrs.  Hope  put  one  arm  across  Mrs.  Brauw's  shoulders.  &quot;Why  don't  you  let  these  men  carry  you  over  to  our  house?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;It  won't  help  any-  thing  to  stay  here  watching.&quot;  Mrs,  Brauw  nodded,  and  at  that  the  two  men  picked  her  up  again  and  fol-  lowed  Mrs.  Hope  toward  the  gap  in  the  hedge.  Joanna  trailed  behind.  She  kept  looking  back  at  the  place  where  Miss  Beatrice  had  been,  where  there  were  only  crumbling  rafters  now  and  flames dying  out.  Even  with  all  the  men  shout-  ing,  the  house  seemed  silent.  The  fire  burned,  and  black  beams  buckled  and  fell  without  Joanna's  hearing  anything  at  all.  Mrs.  Brauw  spent  that  night  in  Jo-  anna's  room-in  the  bed  they  didn't  even  have  time  to  remake  before  the  men  set  her  down  in  it-and  Joanna  slept  with  her  mother.  She  had  trouble  sleeping.  Her  mother  had  said  as  she  was  taking  off  her  bathrobe,  &quot;I  don't  think  I  will  sleep  a  wink  tonight.  Oh,  that  poor  daughter.  Poor  Mrs.  Brauw.&quot;  But  she  did  sleep,  finally,  and  it  was  Joanna  who  lay  awake.  She  kept  try-  ing  to  remember  something  about  Miss  Beatrice,  something  important  to  go  with  such  an  important  event  as  her  dying,  but  there  seemed  nothing  at  all  to  remember.  And  she  thought  of  Mrs.  Brauw,  lying  there  so  old  and  fat  in  the  next  room  among  Joanna's  movie-star  pic-  tures  and  high-school  an-  nuals.  Mrs.  Brauw  would  be  able  to  look  out  her  win-  dow  and  see  the  last  of  her  house  go,  if  she  wanted.  Or  maybe  she  preferred  to  sleep,  or  to  turn  her  back  on  the  window  and  watch  the  orange  glow  fad-  ing  off  the  wall.  N  the  morning,  Joanna  had  to  leave  for  school  before  Mrs.  Brauw  awak-  ened,  and  she  was  just  as  glad.  She  didn't  know  what  people  said  to  each  other  when  something  likethis  happened.  And  coming  home  again  in  the  after-  noon,  she  found  herself  hoping  that  Mrs.  Brauw  had  been  carried  off  by  friends  or  relatives  during  the  day.  Yet  the  minute  she  walked  in  she  knew  that  Mrs.  Brauw  was  still  there.  Joanna's  mother  was  mov-  ing  about  in  the  kitchen,  in-  stead  of  being  at  work,  a  little  more  dressed  up  than  usual,  and  in  the  hall  was  the  faint,  dusty,  old-woman  smell  that  hung  in  the  par-  lor  at  Mrs.  Brauw's.  &quot;She's  in  the  living  room,&quot;  her  mother  whis-  pered.  &quot;I  helped  her  there  this  morning.  She's  been  there  all  day.&quot;  Joanna  set  her  books  on  the  kitchen  table  and  looked  in  the  direction  of  the  liv-  " b"ing  room.  &quot;Doing  what?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Oh,  various  things.  Calling  insur-  ance  people.  Drinking  soup.  Talking.  Sometimes  just  sitting  and  looking  out  the  window.&quot;  &quot;What  does  she  talk  about?&quot;  &quot;It's  disconnected.  I'm  a  little  wor-  ried  about  her,  though  her  doctor  says  she's  fine.  First  she  told  me  how  she  happened  to  buy  her  house,  and  then  how  she  hates  the  Pope  in  4974616c79,  and  then  what  a  hard  time  she  had  raising  her  daughter.  She  says-&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  Hope!&quot;  Mrs.  Hope  looked  over  at  Joanna,  and  then  she  crossed  the  hall  to  the  living-room  doorway.  &quot;Can  I  do  some-  thing?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  thought  I  heard  someone  enter  the  house.&quot;  &quot;That  was  Joanna.&quot;  &quot;Where  is  she  now?&quot;  &quot;In  the  kitchen.&quot;  &quot;Well,  send  her  in,  send  her  in,&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  Mrs.  Hope  returned  to  the  kitchen,  where  Joanna  was  standing  fiddling  with  one  of  her  sweater  buttons.  &quot;Hon-  ey,  I  promised  her  you'd  play  Scrabble  with  her,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  have  to  look  in  on  my  job-for  a  while,  at  least-and  she  needs  something  to  get  her  mind  off  things.&quot;  &quot;Scrabble?&quot;  Joanna  asked.  &quot;The  game?&quot;  &quot;Well,  of  course.  You  don't  mind,  do  you?&quot;  &quot;I  guess  not.&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  leaving,  then.  Joanna,  if  she  says  anything  strange,  don't  let  it  bother  you,  you  hear?  She's  just  collecting  herself.&quot;  Joanna  nodded.  She  let  her  mother  kiss  her  cheek,  without  kissing  her  back,  and  when  Mrs.  Hope  had  gone  out  the  back  door  she  went  on  into  the  living  room.  There  was  Mrs.  Brauw,  stretched  out  on  the  couch,  wearing  one  of  Mrs.  Hope's  fullest  bathrobes  over  her  black  nightgown.  There  mustn't  havebeen  anything  else  to  fit  her.  Her  feet  were  bare  and  puffy,  and  her  white  bun  was  straggling  down  the  back  of  her  neck.  When  she  saw  Joanna,  she  held  out  one  hand,  palm  down,  and  said,  &quot;There  you  are.  Your  mother  said  you  were  going  to  play  Scrabble  with  me.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  am,&quot;  Joanna  said.  She  brought  the  Scrabble  set  over  from  the  bookcase  and  began  laying  it  out  on  the  coffee  table  by  the  couch,  taking  care  not  to  look  too  hard  at  Mrs.  Brauw.  &quot;I  need  something  to  take  my  mind  off  things,&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  &quot;'That's  what  your  mother  said.  I  am  a  com-  posed  person-always  have  been.  Yet     last  night  there  were  flames  all  around  me  and  I  was  unable  to  move.  I  thought,  So  this  is  how  I  will  end.  I  will  end.  My  furniture  burned,  that  I  bought  when  I  first  was  married,  and  my  papers  and  letters  and  photograph  albums  that  nobody  can  replace.  Also  the  last  living  close  relation  I  had,  leaving  no  one  to  take  careof  me-my  only  daughter,  who  gave  me  her  word  she  would  look  out  for  my  every  need  until  I  died.&quot;  She  paused  and  folded  her  hands  across  her  stomach  and  looked  at  Jo-  anna,  but  Joanna  couldn't  think  of  anything  to  say.  She  bent  her  head  very  low  over  the  Scrabble  board  and  concentrated  on  setting  it  up.  The  Hopes  didn't  have  a  drawstring  bag  for  their  letters.  They  always  spread  them  out  on  the  table,  turning  them  face  down,  one  by  one,  and  Joanna  was  glad  to  have  that  much  to  do.  For  a  while  there  was  only  a  clicking  sound,  as  she  turned  the  letters  over.  Then  Mrs.  Brauw  said,  &quot;I  have  al-  ways  had  perfect  composure,  even  as  a  child.  Something  Beatrice  never  had.  My  mother  said  it  was  the  mark  of  a  lady.  My  mother  is  dead.&quot;  The  letters  were  all  turned.  Joanna  sat  down  in  a  chair  beside  thecoffee  table  and  said,  &quot;We  can  begin,  if  you  like.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  of  course,&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  &quot;Calms  the  mind.&quot;  But  she  didn't  begin,  although  it  was  her  place  as  guest  to  draw  the  first  let-  ter.  Instead,  she  said,  &quot;As  the  earth  gets  old,  there  are  more  and  more  things  one  has  to  steel  one's  mind  against.  Fear.  Another  de-  pression.  Communism.  The  Pope.  Yesterday  my  nephew  came  to  lunch.  He  has  turned  Catholic  in  his  middle  age.  He  says  there  are  many  changes  of  Popes  but  it's  all  only  one,  really,  all  the  way  back  to  Peter-no  dying.  He  doesn't  die.  All  bunk.  Fear,  Communism,  an-  other  depression-all  bunk.&quot;  She  swooped  forward  suddenly,  with  her  fingers  outspread-the  knuckles  slightly  swollen,  the  heavy  rings  still  weighing  them  down-and  pickedout  a  letter.  &quot;'E,&quot;  &quot;  she  said.  Joanna  picked  one,  too,  and  said,  I  go  first.&quot;  &quot;It  was  Beatrice  who  invited  him  over,&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  &quot;Invited  who?&quot;  &quot;My  nephew.  I  don't  know  why-  she  knew  I  don't  enjoy  him.  Beatrice  did  those  things  sometimes.  Oh,  it  wasn't  fair.  I  said,  'Beatrice,  you're  all  I've  got.  You  and  my  old  age.  You'll  have  to  promise  tostay  by  me.'  And  she  said,  'All  right,  Mother]  'Till  I  died,  she  said.  Well,  you  see  what  hap-  pened.  It  wasn't  fair  at  all.&quot;  &quot;She  kept  her  promise  as  best  she  could,&quot;  Joanna  said.  &quot;No,&quot;  Mrs.  Brauw  said.  &quot;It  was  a  cheat  from  beginning  to  end.&quot;  She  stared  down  at  the  &quot;E&quot;  she  had  drawn,  and  in  that  split  second  when  Mrs.  Brauw's  eyes  were  not  on  her  Joanna  said,  &quot;I  just  wanted  to  tell  you,  I'm  sorry  about  Miss  Beatrice.&quot;  She  wished  the  words  back  as  soon  as  she  had  said  them-they  were  thought  up  on  the  way  home  from  school,  and  had  turned  out  not  to  be  rightafter  all-  but  it  was  too  late,  and  Mrs.  Brauw  was  already  looking  up  at  her  with  her  small,  hooded  eyes.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said  finally,  &quot;there's  no  way  I  can  try  to  change  things  any-  more,  is  there?&quot;  Then  she  stretched  one  hand  toward  the  coffee  table  again,  and  drew  the  rest  of  her  letters  very  quickly  and  set  them  in  her  rack  without  looking  at  them."