 b"I  WAS  leafing  through  a  magazine  I  while  waiting  for  Joseph  K.,  my  beagle,  to  emerge  from  his  regular  Tuesday  fifty-minute  hour  with  a  Park  Avenue  therapist-a  Jungian  veteri-  narian  who,  for  fifty  dollars  per  ses-  sion,  labors  valiantly  to  convince  him  that  jowls  are  not  a  social  drawback-  when  I  came  across  a  sentence  at  the  bottom  of  the  page  that  caught  my  eye  like  an  overdraft  notice.  It  was  just  another  item  in  one  of  those  boiler-  plate  specials  with  a  title  like  &quot;His-  toragrams&quot;  or  &quot;Betcha  Didn't  Know,&quot;  but  its  magnitude  shook  me  with  the  power  of  the  opening  strains  of  Bee-  thoven's  Ninth.  &quot;The  sandwich,&quot;  it  read,  &quot;was  invented  by  the  Earl  of  Sandwich.&quot;  Stunned  by  the  news,  I  read  it  again  and  broke  into  an  invol-  untary  tremble.  My  mind  whirled  as  it  began  to  conjure  with  the  immense  dreams,  the  hopes  and  obstacles,  that  must  have  gone  into  the  invention  of  the  first  sandwich.  My  eyes  became  moist  as  I  looked  out  the  window  at  the   shimmering  towers  of  the  city,  and  I  experienced  a  sense  of  eternity,  marvel-  ling  at  man's  ineradicable  place  in  the  universe.  Man  the  inventor!  Da  Vinci's  notebooks  loomed  before  me-brave  blueprints  for  the  highest  aspirations  of  the  human  race.  I  thought  of  Aristotle,  Dante,  Shakespeare.  The  First  Folio.  [REDACTED].  Handel's  &quot;Messiah.&quot;  Monet.  Impressionism.  Edison.  Cubism.  Stra-  vinsky. ...  Holding  firmly  to  a  mental  picture  of  the  first  sandwich  lying  encased  at  the  British  Museum,  I  spent  the  ensuing  three  months  working  up  a  brief  biog-  raphy  of  its  great  inventor,  his  nibs  the  Earl.  Though  my  grasp  of  history  is  a  bit  shaky,  and  though  my  capacity  for  romanticizing  easily  dwarfs  that  of  the  average  acidhead,  I  hope  I  have  captured  at  least  the  essence  of  this  un-  appreciated  genius,  and  that  these  sparse  notes  will  inspire  a  true  historian  to  take  it  from  here.  1718:  Birth  of  the  Earl  of  Sandwich  to  upper-class  parents.  Father  is  delighted  at  being  appointed  chief  farrier  to  His  Majesty  the  King-a  position  he  will  enjoy  for  several  years,  until  he  discovers  he  is  a  blacksmith  and  resigns  embittered.  Mother  is  a  simple  Haus-  frau  of  German  extraction,  whose  un-  eventful  menu  consists  essentially  of  lard  and  gruel,  although  she  does  show  some  flair  for  culinary  imagination  in  her  ability  to  concoct  a  passable  silla-  bub.  1725-35:  Attends  school,  where  he  is  taught  horseback  riding  and  Latin.  At  school  he  comes  in  contact  with  cold  cuts  for  the  first  time  and  dis-  plays  an  unusual  interest  in  thinly  sliced  strips  of  roast  beef  and  ham.  By  gradu-  ation  this  has  become  an  obsession,  and  although  his  paper  on  &quot;The  Analysis  and  Attendant  Phenomena  of  Snacks&quot;  arouses  interest  among  the  faculty,  his  classmates  regard  him  as  odd.  1736:  Enters  [REDACTED]  University,  at  his  parents'  behest,  to  pursue  studies  in  rhetoric  and  metaphysics,  but  displays  little  enthusiasm  for  either.  In  constant  revolt  against  everything  academic,  he  is  charged  with  stealing  loaves  of  bread  and  performing  unnatural  experiments  with  them.  Accusations  of  heresy  result  in  his  expulsion.  1738:  Disowned,  he  sets  out  for  the  Scan-  dinavian  countries,  where  he  spends  three  years  in  intensive  re-  search  on  cheese.  He  is  much  taken  with  the  many  varieties  of  sar-  dines  he  encounters  and  writes  in  his  note-  book,  &quot;I  am  convinced  that  there  is  an  endur-  ing  reality,  beyond  anything  man  has  yet  attained,  in  the  juxta-  position  of  foodstuffs.  Simplify,  simplify.&quot;  Up-  on  his  return  to  Eng-  land,  he  meets  Nell  Smallbore,  a  green-  grocer's  daughter,  and  they  marry.  She  is  to  teach  him  all  he  will  ever  know  about  let-  tuce.  1741:  Living  in  the  country  on  a  small  inheritance,  he  works  day  and  night,  often  skimping  on  meals  to  save  money  for  food.  His  first  completed  work-a  slice  of  bread,  a  slice  of  bread  on  top  of  that,  and  a  slice  of  " b"turkey  on  top  of  both-fails  miserably.  Bitterly  disap-  pointed,  he  returns  to  his  stu-  dio  and  begins  again.  1745:  After  four  years  of  frenzied  labor,  he  is  con-  vinced  he  is  on  the  threshold  of  success.  He  exhibits  before  his  peers  two  slices  of  turkey  with  a  slice  of  bread  in  the  middle.  His  work  is  reject-  ed  by  all  but  David  Hume,  who  senses  the  imminence  of  something  great  and  en-  courages  him.  Heartened  by  the  philosopher's  friendship,  he  returns  to  work  with  re-  newed  vigor.  1747:  Destitute,  he  can  no  longer  afford  to  work  in  roast  beef  or  turkey  and  switches  to  ham,  which  is  cheaper.  1750:  In  the  spring,  he  exhibits  and  demonstrates  three  consecutive  slices  of  ham  stacked  on  one  another;  this  arouses  some  interest,  mostly  in  intellectual  circles,  but  the  general  public  re-  mains  unmoved.  Three  slices  of  bread  on  top  of  one  another  add  to  his  repu-  tation,  and  while  a  mature  style  is  not  yet  evident,  he  is  sent  for  by  Voltaire.  1751:  Journeys  to  [REDACTED],  where  the  dramatist-philosopher  has  achieved  some  interesting  results  with  bread  and  mayonnaise.  The  two  men  become  friendly  and  begin  a  correspondence  that  is  to  end  abruptly  when  Voltaire  runs  out  of  stamps.  1758:  His  growing  acceptance  by  opinion-makers  wins  him  a  commission  by  the  Queen  to  fix  &quot;something  spe-  cial&quot;  for  a  luncheon  with  the  Spanish  ambassador.  He  works  day  and  night,  tearing  up  hundreds  of  blueprints,  but  finally-at  4:17  am.,  April  27,  1758-he  creates  a  work  consisting  of  several  strips  of  ham  enclosed,  top  and  bottom,  by  two  slices  of  rye  bread.  In  a  burst  of  inspiration,  he  garnishes  the  work  with  mustard.  It  is  an  immediate  sensation,  and  he  is  commissioned  to  prepare  all  Saturday  luncheons  for  the  remainder  of  the  year.  1760:  He  follows  one  success  with  another,  creating  &quot;sandwiches,&quot;  as  they  are  called  in  his  honor,  out  of  roast  beef,  chicken,  tongue,  and  nearly  every  conceivable  cold  cut.  Not  content  to  repeat  tried  formulas,  he  seeks  out  new  ideas  and  devises  the  combination  sandwich,  for  which  he  receives  the  Order  of  the  Garter.  1769:  Living  on  a  country  estate,  he  is  visited  by  the  greatest  men  of  his century;  Haydn,  Kant,  [REDACTED],  and  Ben  Franklin  stop  at  his  home,  some  enjoying  his  remarkable  creations  at  table,  others  ordering  to  go.  1778:  Though  aging  physically,  he  still  strives  for  new  forms  and  writes  in  his  diary,  &quot;I  work  long  into  the  cold  nights  and  am  toasting  everything  now  in  an  effort  to  keep  warm.&quot;  Lat-  er  that  year,  his  open  hot  roast-beef  sandwich  creates  a  scandal  with  its  frankness.  1783:  To  celebrate  his  sixty-fifth  birthday,  he  invents  the  hamburger  and  tours  the  great  capitals  of  the  world  personally,  making  burgers  at  concert  halls  before  large  and  appreciative  audi-  ences.  In  [REDACTED],  Goethe  suggests  serving  them  on  buns-an  idea  that  de-  lights  the  Earl,  and  of  the  author  of  &quot;Faust&quot;  he  says,  &quot;This  Goethe,  he  is  some  fellow.&quot;  The  remark  delights  Goethe,  although  the  following  year  they  break  intellectually  over  the  con-  ceptof  rare,  medium,  and  well  done.  1790:  At  a  retrospective  exhibition  of  his  works  in  [REDACTED],  he  is  suddenly  taken  ill  with  chest  pains  and  is  thought  to  be  dying,  but  recovers  sufficiently  to  supervise  the  construction  of  a  hero  sandwich  by  a  group  of  talented  fol-  lowers.  Its  unveiling  in  4974616c79  causes  a  riot,  and  it  remains  misunderstood  by  all  but  a  few  critics.  1792:  He  develops  a  genu  varum,  which  he  fails  to  treat  in  time,  and  suc-  cumbs  in  his  sleep.  He  is  laid  to  rest  in  Westminster  Abbey,  and  thousands  mourn  his  passing.  At  his  funeral,  the  great  German  poet  H\xc3\xa9lderlin  sums  up  his  achievements  with  undisguised  rev-  erence:  &quot;He  freed  mankind  from  the  hot  lunch.  We  owe  him  so  much.&quot; "