 b"IT  is  nine  o'clock  of  an  August  evening.  'Theyear  is  1927,  and  Isabelle  and  I  are  being  taken  by  Arthur  Acton  to  dine  with  the  Sitwells.  Although  our  destination  is  only  twenty  miles  from  Florence,  it  seems  to  take  the  motorcar  a  long  time,  climbing  hills  and  descending  valleys,  through  the  cypress  and  wine  country.  Isabelle  and  I  are  Americans,  and  in  our  early  twenties.  I  am  staying  in  a  pension  with  my  mother,  who  is  ill,  and  Isabelle  is  from  [REDACTED],  and  has  taken  a  villa.  We  met  at  one  of  Arthur  Acton's  garden  parties.  He  is  &quot;Lord  Acton&quot;  in  Florence,  for  titles  are  hap-  pily  bestowed  here  on  foreigners,  as  marks  of  affection.  I  stare  out  of  the  window.  &quot;No,  you  can't  see  the  chapel,&quot;  Arthur  Acton  says.  We  are  crossing  a  bridge.  &quot;I  hope  that  you  will  bring  your  friend  to  see  the  paintings  one  of  these  days-  shall  we  say  Friday  for  lunch?&quot;  The  car  comes  out  of  a  dark  turning  of  the  road.  &quot;Ah,  here  we  are!&quot;  And  crowning  the  last  hill  is  the  castle,  Montegufoni,  the  Mountain  of  the  Owls,  its  roofs  and  tower  outlined  by  torches  flaring  in  the  wind.  We  have  arrived.  The  driver  stopped  and  Arthur  Ac-  ton  led  us  to  a  small  and  massive  wood-  en  door.  Pushing  it  open  (could  this  be  the  Main  Entrance?  ),  we  stumbled  into  an  obscure  cell  and  stood  there.  Di-  rectly  confronting  us  was  a  knight  in  full  armor,  visor  down,  holding  in  his  gauntleted  hand  a  pike.  He  did  not  stir;  it  was  the  empty  shell.  By  the  light  of  a  wall  sconce  we  saw  that  we  were  surrounded  by  the  motley  accoutre-  ments  of  ancient  battle-coats  of  mail,  lances,  helmets,  faded  pennants.  Our  escort,  pointing,  recited,  &quot;Harquebus,  thirteenth  century.  ...  That's  a  gon-  falon.  ...  Over  there's  a  hauberk.  ...  And  that's  an  oriflamme,  very  like  the  St.  Denis  one,  you  know.  .  ..  Well,  as  there's  no  bell,  we  must  just  wait,  my  dears.&quot;  And  then,  changing  his  mind,  &quot;No,  better,  I'll  go  fetch  somebody.  Shan't  be  a  moment.&quot;  The  floor  was  stone-wet  stone.  Isabelle  and  I  did  not  stir,  lest  an  iron  helmet  fall  on  us  or  we  bump  into  a  battle-axe  or  broadsword.  After  what  seemed  a  very  long  interval,  a  door  opened  and  a  young  man  in  tweeds  ap-  peared  and,  with  some  diffidence,  asked  us  to  follow  him.  We  came  to  the  Gallery,  dimly  lit  and  vast  and  like  a  piazza.  'The  guests  stood  grouped  in  twos  and  threes-groups  displaced  rather  than  composed-with  occasion- " b"ally  a  single  figure  alone.  Some  of  the  ladies  were  wearing  tailored  suits,  oth-  ers  evening  dress.  They  showed  no  signs  of  conviviality  but  seemed  fin-  ished  with,  or  waiting  for,  something.  Isabelle  and  I  wandered  among  them,  looking  for  Arthur  Acton,  who  had  become  invisible.  There  were  no  chairs.  An  exceedingly  tall  young  woman  in  a  long  cotton  skirt  and  bodice  with  a  flat  straw  hat  stood  alone,  framed  by  a  doorway.  (Edith?  It  must  be  Edith.  But  there  were  no  introductions,  and  we  did  not  know-certainly  Z  did  not  know  -that  the  Sitwells  were  the  ex-  traordinary  Sitwells.  We  had  not  heard  &quot;Facade.&quot;  Sir  Osbert's  memoirs  were  far  in  the  future.)  But  had  we  not  been  asked  for  dinner?  And  where  was  our  hostess?  We  crossed  the  Gallery  and  came  to  a  dining  room.  At  the  far  end  of  a  long  table,  in  this  very  long  room,  sat  an  elderly  lady  dressed  in  black,  with  a  large  black  hat  and  a  black  veil,  rather  like  a  beekeeper's  mask.  Gloves,  too.  She  was  alone  and  eating  straw-  berries.  'There  were  no  other  places  set  at  the  table.  &quot;Dinner's  over,&quot;  she  said  brightly.  &quot;I  don't  suppose  you  want  any  strawberries?  ...  No?  Well  then,  one  of  the  boys  will  show  you  round.&quot;  The  same  young  man  in  tweeds  who  had  rescued  us  from  the  armory  reap-  peared.  Osbert?  Or  Sacheverell?  I  think  it  was  Osbert.  He  called  out  to  an  invisible  person  in  the  next  room,  &quot;Papa,  if  I  don't  get  back  in  half  an  hour,  send  Bobo  after  us.  I  don't  really  know  the  way.&quot;  O  show  something,  to  present  something,  is  generally  conceded  to  be  a  personal  pleasure,  whereas  to  be  shown  is  frequently  a  trial  requiring  indulgence.  On  this  occasion  the  re-  verse  was  true.  He  suffered.  Osbert  (if  it  was  Osbert)  suffered.  Perhaps  he  had  shown  the  castle  too  often,  or  it  is  possible  that  his  taste  differed  from  that  of  his  father.  He  was  correct  and  austere.  Through  the  many  dark  pas-  sages,  painted  and  unpainted,  he  car-  ried  a  candle,  upstairs  and  downstairs,  through  frescoed  passages  that  were  mil-  dewed  and  peeling.  Isabelle  and  I  fol-  lowed,  respecting  his  silence.  We  were  ignorant  of  the  castle's  history,  with  its  formidable  list  of  pos-  sessors  and  guests-the  Dukes  of  Ath-  ens,  the  great  Acciaiuoli  family,  the  Prince  of  Taranto,  Boccaccio.  There  had  been  hundreds  of  peasants  living  in  the  cellars  when  the  castle  was  bought  by  Sir  George,  in  1909.  And  in  1942  it  would  have  the  honor  of  entertaining  the  most  extraordinary  col-  lection  of  art  treasures  ever  assembled " b"together  in  a  private  residence-the  chief  works  of  the  Uffizi  and  Pitti  Gal-  leries,  and  masterpieces  from  churches  and  museums  of  Tuscany,  valued,  ac-  cording  to  the  Italian  government,  at  three  hundred  and  twenty  million  dollars.  At  the  end  of  an  especially  long  cor-  ridor,  Osbert  announced,  &quot;My  moth-  er's  bedroom,&quot;  and  opened  a  door.  We  peered  into  a  cave.  Was  it  a  cave  into  which  a  couch  had  been  introduced?  If  so,  the  couch  was  invisible.  Or  was  it  a  room  painted  to  look  like  a  cave?  Or  was  it  a  cave  painted  to  look  like  a  cave?  It  was  dark  and  it  was  wet.  Vines  crawled  from  the  ceiling  to  the  stone  floor.  A  frog  and  a  lizard  stared  out  from  among  the  ferns.  A  painted  waterfall  slid  between  painted  rocks  and  shells,  and,  in  imitation,  real  water  dripped  from  the  ceiling,  into  real  and  unreal  clumps  of  moss-or  was  it  seaweed?  A  wall  glistened  green  with  opalescence.  The  watercress  was  abundant.  Between  the  waterfalls  was  a  trompe-Poeil  window;  a  lynx  and  some  wild  clouds  were  looking  in  through  its  painted  iron  bars.  In  the  real  window  an  owl  was  sitting,  with  his  back  to  us.  Was  he  chained  there?  He  was  silent.  The  flickering  candle  moved  on,  and  so  did  we.  More  corridors.  Making  an  abrupt  turn,  we  were  surprised  by  light.It  came  from  a  torch  stuck  into  a  wall  at  the  top  of  a  flight  of  wooden  steps,  illuminating  an  aperture  that  had  been  designed  to  hold  a  door.  It  would  have  necessitated  a  wide  door,  or  a  curtain  might  have  served,  but  both  were  lacking.  This  grand  en-  trance  exposed,  with  dignity,  a  water  closet.  Raised  on  a  pedestal,  it  com-  manded  the  view  of  the  passersby.  To  the  right  of  the  W.C.  was  the  bath-  tub-a  tin  tub  elevated  on  ordinary  claw  feet-and,  hanging  directly  over  it,  a  large  painting  of  a  particularly  realistic  Crucifixion.  Confronting  the  painting,  and  of  the  same  size,  was  a  hole,  a  rough  hole  in  the  wall  that  might  have  been  made  by  a  battering-  ram  during  a  siege,  or  by  one  of  the  weapons  belowstairs.  Clouds  fled  by.  The  wind  blew  in.  No  comment,  and  again  we  followed  our  leader.  &quot;My  father's  beds,&quot;  he  announced,  opening  a  door.  &quot;He  has  made  quite  a  collection-they  say  the  finest  in  4974616c79.  This  one  is  Hadrian's-the  emperor,  you  know.&quot;  It  was  as  one  would  imagine  a  bed  of  Hadrian's  to  be-massive  twisted  gold-leafed  columns  twined  with  grape-  vines,  the  canopy  cloth  of  gold." b"We  passed  on  to  the  next  room.  &quot;And  this  one  he  brought  from  537061696e.  ...  Tullia  of  Aragon  slept  here.&quot;  So,  with  Osbert  preceding  us  from  room  to  room,  opening  and  shut-  ting  doors,  we  traversed  the  bed  series.  His  one  faltering  candle,  held  high,  sometimes  shone  on  a  complete  image  of  old  splendor,  of  faded  damask  and  gilded  displacements,  or  again  would  fix  upon  a  sudden  detail-an  angel's  scowl.  Here,  precise  paintings  of  torture,  or,  in  this  quick,  passing  light,  four  top-  heavy  vases  crowning  columns,  giant  teapots  wound  with  serpents.  &quot;This  bed  is  Venetian.  Some  doge  slept  here.&quot;  Wave  arabesques  enclose,  and  dolphins  support,  the  couch-gondo-  la.  Lace,  as  stiff  as  marble.  Mourning  urns,  A  domed  bed  on  which  Leda's  swan  sits.  And  where  is  Nero's!  The  ebony  couch  with  the  coral  eagles?  &quot;My  sister  Edith's  room.  She  pre-  fers  an  iron  hospital  cot,  as  you  ob-  serve.&quot;  Osbert  closed  the  narrow  door  be-  hind  us.  I  turned  and  saw,  scrawled  on  the  door  in  bold  red  paint,  &quot;VIVA  vaALENTINO!\xc2\xae&quot;  Then  no  more  beds  but  passages,  passages,  damp  and  descending.  Osbert  found  a  new  candle,  and  we  began  our  pilgrimage  into  the  dungeons,  out  of  which  came  the  heady  smell  of  wine,  of  must,  of  mold.  We  arrived  at  the  well.  A  pile  of  old  copies  of  the  London  Times  was  lying  handily  nearby,  but  it  required  patience  to  light  the  damp  scrap  of  paper.  Finally  one  feeble  flame  fluttered  down.  Isabelle  leaned  over  the  well's  edge  to  follow  the  slow  descent.  &quot;A  wishing-  ||  well  and  not  a  body  in't?&quot;  she  said  gently,  paraphrasing  Shakespeare.  Osbert,  surprised,  said  no,  no  bodies,  but  that  when  the  cellars  had  been  first  dug  out  his  father  had  been  overjoyed  at  finding  a  young  girl's  skeleton.  HE  tour  of  the  castle  ended  at  the  door  of  the  Gallery.  The  guests  were  preparing  to  leave.  We  saw  Ar-  thur  Acton  at  the  far  end  of  the  room,  surrounded  bya  group  of  young  Flor-  entines,  elegant  in  their  dark-blue  silk  suits  and  white  silk  shirts.  Their  hair  _  looked  blue,  too.  But  when  we  got  there  our  escort  was  no  longer  with  them.  Standing  in  the  same  doorway  as  be-  fore,  but  looking  out  of  the  window,  was  the  same  young  woman,  her  beau-  tiful  ringed  hands  clasped.  Lady  Ida  was  not  to  be  found  at  the  moment  of  departure.  The  sky  was  dark  with  clouds,  and  the  guests  crowded  into  the  armory,  waiting  for  their  conveyances,  in  some  apprehen-" b"sion  of  the  storm  that  was  about  to  break.  We  stood  there  with  them.  Sir  George  appeared,  in  his  gum  boots  and  covered  by  an  enormous  rain  cape,  with  a  spyglass  in  his  hand,  fol-  lowed  by  Arthur  Acton,  who  intro-  duced  us  and  then  said,  &quot;Where  were  you?  I  have  been  looking  everywhere!&quot;  Sir  George  adjusted  his  telescope,  ob-  serving  the  distant  view,  but  he  turned  to  comment,  &quot;Arthur,  you  did  not  show  them  the  bones-your  young  friends  missed  the  bones.  What  a  pity  Buona  notte!  Buona  notte!&quot;  &quot;Such  a  pleasant  party,&quot;  Isabelle  said  dreamily,  leaning  back  in  the  car  and  smelling  her  gardenias.  &quot;But  I  don't  understand  about  the  lady  who  was  eating  strawberries  all  alone  in  the  dining  room.  She  didn't  seem  to  be  expecting  a  party.&quot;  &quot;Lady  Ida?&quot;  Arthur  Acton  said.  &quot;She's  always  giving  parties,  she  adores  parties,  and  has  lots  of  charming  friends,  but  she's  rather  vague,  and  she  forgets  whom  she  has  invited,  and  sometimes  you  arrive  and  findthat  the  chef  and  the  major-domo  have  not  been  informed  and  therefore  nothing  has  been  prepared.  Also,  ofcourse,  she  is  a  bit  extravagant.  If  Sir  George  turns  up  suddenly,  as  he  did  tonight,  well,  the  champagne  and  the  truffles  go  back  to  Doney's.  It  could  have  been  such  a  nice  evening.  ..  .  Such  a  pity!&quot;  The  first  heavy  drops  were  falling  as  we  drove  down  the  hill.  The  torches  were  extinguished,  and  it  was  thunder-  ing,  so  we  heard  no  owls."