THE  ABSENCE  [REDACTED]  husband  having  gone  away  on  his  long  visit,  Bonnie  Rich-  ards  settled  down  to  a  stack  of  books,  They  were  all  about  science,  about  which  she  knew  little,  and  de-  signed  for  the  popular  reader.  She  was  alone  in  the  house  except  for  the  dog,  who  took  to  looking  at  her  curiously.  She  thought  he  only  missed  his  master  and  wanted  to  ask  about  him,  but  none-  theless  his  large,  beseeching  eyes  could  be  disquieting.  She  read  the  science  books  at  night  and  became  more  disquieted  than  ever.  Matter  was  made  of  atoms,  as  she  already  knew,  but  the  behavior  and  organization  of  these  small  active  objects  were  extremely  uncertain.  No  one  knew  just  what  matter  was.  No  instrument  was  delicate  enough  to  ob-  serve  atoms  without  making  a  grave  impact,  which  altered  their  habits.  They  thus  enjoyed  an  unbreakable  privacy.  Some  scientists  had  seriously  conjec-  tured  that  particles  within  atoms  were  not  compelled  to  behave  as  they  did  but  could  choose  what  they  felt  like  doing.  All  conclusions  seemed  open  to  doubt.  Space  she  had  to  quit  reading  about,  carly  on.  It  was  unthinkably  gigantic,  yet  finite,  was  exploding  outward,  had  already  burst  at  points.  There  was  no  up  or  down;  we  were  like  creatures  placed  on  the  round  surface  of  an  expand-  ing  balloon,  and  all  she  had  remembered  from  high-school  geometry,  which  had  to  do  with  flat  surfaces,  was  no  use,  because  nothing  was  flat.  The  moon  used  to  be  so  near  the  earth  that  tides  three  miles  high  went  shoot-  ing  up  to  meet  it,  out  in  the  [REDACTED].  It  was  diffi-  cult  not  to  see  this  awe-  some  spectacle,  in  the  mind's  eve.  When  she  took  the  dog  walking  in  the  evening,  she  avoided  looking  at  the  sky.  Mystery  books  were  out,  for  the  ones  she  liked  always  un-  {}{folded  in  creaky  old  houses  dogs  started  barking  for  no  reason.  Her  house  was  not  old,  but  occasion-  ally  it  creaked  at  night.  Bonnie  was  not  a  visitor  of  neighbors;  most  of  the  Richards'  where  friends  were  scattered  out.  They  had  her  come  to  dinner  or  for  drinks,  and  once  she  drank  too  much  and  skinned  her  knee  on  the  front  steps  when  she  came  home.  The  hall  light  had  burnt  out  and  the  dog  was  asleep  under  the  bed  in  the  guest  room.  There  was  a  peculiar  smell  in  the  basement,  like  an  oil  leak,  but  no  oil  was  visible.  Days,  she  went  to  the  grocery,  and  once  she  went  to  the  ballet,  standing  at  intermission  in  the  thickly  carpeted  foyer,  feeling  elegant  and  somewhat  mysterious  in  her  black  pumps  and  gray  silk.  Another  afternoon,  she  went  to  the  movies  in  the  rain,  where,  wearing  her  old  raincoat,  flat  heels,  and  a  scarf,  she  began  to  feel  as  she  had  back  in  college.  She  got  the  house  painter  to  come  and  redecorate  the  living  room,  and  had  such  a  fine  time  with  him  over  coffee  that  she  stayed  in  love  with  him  for  two  days.  He  was  aware  of  this,  it  was  obvious,  when  he  came  the  next  time.  She  was  trying  to  reason  her  way  cither  out  of  it  or  into  it,  when  his  ladder  slipped  (he  had  grown  some-  what  nervous)  and  he  broke  a  large  window.  By  the  time  the  details  of  re-  pairing  it  were  ironed  out,  she  was  simply  impatient  with  him.  He  was  ignorant,  and  when  they  went  to  the  hardware  store  to  have  new  glass  cut,  53  he  tried  to  explain  to  her,  on  observ-  ing  some  bad  reproductions  of  modern  painting,  that  there  was  really  nothing  to  Picasso.  The  weather  grew  warmer,  and  she  took  out  her  dissatisfaction  on  the  flow-  er  beds,  planting  salvia  and  portulaca,  lobelia  and  marigolds,  weeding  the  day  lilies  and  wrecking  her  hands.  Her  hus-  band  wrote  that  he  was  having  a  splen-  did  time  and  that  his  parents'  health  had  improved  since  his  arrival.  She  went  to  the  library  on  quite  a  warm  day-the  warmest  so  far-and  read  for  a  time  before  large  windows  opening  on  a  small  park,  where  red  cannas,  freshly  set  out,  were  beginning  to  unscroll.  Birds  splashed  in  a  rough  ornamental  crater  filled  with  water.  Sometimes,  when  they  tilted  up  for  their  steep  ascent,  water  fell  from  their  serrated  wing  tips  in  splashes  bright  as  mercury.  She  did  not  know  what  she  was  read-  ing.  It  was  coming  over  her  gradually  what  she  wished  to  be-something  she  had  never  consciously  thought  of  be-  fore.  She  wished  to  bea  person,  a  being,  who  appeared  and  disappeared.  She  would  have  liked,  conveniently,  to  have  the  power  to  disappear  even  from  her-  self,  to  put  herself  away  like  something  folded  in  a  drawer,  or  simply  not  to  be  when  there  was  nothing  to  be  for.  If  not  in  a  drawer,  then  better  still  to  go  outward  as  a  color,  soft  and  pleasing,  or  to  b  e  a  bird's  wing,  or  the  water  t  hat  the  bird  splashed  in.  She  migh  t  even  arrange  to  exist,  to  be  in  the  regard,  the  very  glance,  of  h  er  husband  o  r  of  tho  se  dear  to  h  er  when  t  hey  most  or  least  looked  for  her-  eme  rgin  g  into  rooms  or  from  aroun  d  corners,  coming  to  ward  them  with  a  piece  of  news  or  a  cup  of  coffee.  The  conception  had  started,  she  now  realized,  some  time  ago,  back  in  the  winter,  when,  co  ming  in  out  of  a  sub-zero  night,  she  had  drawn  herself  c  lose  against  her  husband  in  bed  and  shivered  for  such  a  long  time  he  said  she  should  turn  back  into  a  rib,  which  was  what  wives  had  come  from  origi-  nally.  She  had  rather  fancied  the  idea,  for  her  husband  had  a  fine,  practical  way  of  carrying  his  body-shoulders,  he  ad,  skin,  bones,  and  all-in  a  ma  nner  rapi  d  yet  c  ontrolled,  wit  h  a  good  deal  of  vitality  and  the  definit  e  pro  mise  of  good  things  unfolding  before  him  as  he  went  alo  ng.  He  was  invariably  warm.  She  couldn't  be  better  disposed  of  than  in  this  fashion.  HE  next  day,  the  dog  ran  off  but  was  event  u  ally  brought  back  ho  me  by  a  sma  ll  g  irl  named  Dor  is,  whose  family  had  been  living  three  doors  down,  in  an  apartment  in  o  ne  wing  of  a  widow's  house.  B  onni  e  invited  Doris  in  and  gave  her  some  cookies  as  a  re-  ward.  Doris  sat  down  quite  amiably  and  talked  away,  eati  ng  cookies.  She  e  xpressed  a  liking  for  &quot;Batman&quot;  and  &quot;  The  Man  from  U.N.C.  L.E.,&quot;  and  said  she  wanted  to  become  a  dancer  in  shows  and  night  clubs.  It  seemed  un-  likely  at  the  moment  that  she  was  very  promising  material  for  this  car  eer,  being  mousy  and  rather  fat,  but  she  said  it  so  matter-of-factly  that  Bonnie  was  persuaded  she  would  go  straigh  t  to  the  goal,  even  becoming  lithe  and  blond  and  beautiful  at  the  app  ropriate  mo-  ment.  Every  day  t  here  after,  Doris  came  to  look  at  TV,  since  her  family  did  not  have  a  set.  One  day,  her  mother  came  for  her.  S  he  said  it  was  time  for  Doris  to  come  t  o  dinner,  and  asked  Bonnie  as  a  special  f  avor  if  she  would  cash  a  check  for  ten  do  llars,  because  she  had  to  run  to  the  grocery,  and  the  grocer  was  notoriously  relu  ctant  to  cash  checks.  Bonnie  had  one  of  her  mo-  ments  of  definitely  appearing,  and  gave  the  m  oney  quite  hap  pily.  She  heard  herself  already  telling  her  husband,  &quot;''They  are  not  especially  nice  people,  but  I  let  the  girl  come  to  pass  the  time.  I'll  just  say  I'm  busy  or  something  if  she  begins  to  make  it  a  habit.&quot;  Two  days  later,  she  went  by  the  bank  to  cash  the  check.  She  then  learned  that  Doris's  family  had  m  oved  away  in  the  night,  having  gi  ven  a  number  of  wo  rthle  ss  checks  like  her  own  before  departing.  The  child  her-  self  had  distributed  some  of  them,  though  whet  h  er  or  not  aware  of  what  she  was  doing  was  not  know  n.  Nobody  k  new  where  they  had  gone.  That  night,  Bonnie  did  not  sleep  at  all.  Noth  ing  has  happened,  she  kept  tell  ing  herself.  What's  ten  dol-  lar  s?  Why  is  a  bird's  wing  water  pr  oof?  What  is  an  atom  up  to?&quot;  How  did  the  mo  on  ge  t  as  high  as  it  is?  What  is  the  dog  trying  to  say?  If  the  sm  ell  in  the  basement  i  s  not  oil  ,  then  what  is  it?  What  do  I  myself  think  of  Batma  n?  Th  e  dog  whimp  ered  ,  and  jumped  on  the  bed  and  lay  close  to  her,  and  though  she  had  never  allowed  this  before,  she  let  him  stay.  [REDACTED]  husband  materialized  exactly  on  schedule,  through  the  doors  into  the  waiting  room  at  the  airport,     -Joun  BeEtjEMmAN  which  sprang  open  magically,  even  royally,  when  he  approached  them.  &quot;Is  everything  O.K.?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Fine,  fine,  everything's  fine.  No-  body  was  seriously  sick  after  all.  You  should  have  come.  Why  are  you  pale,  why  are  you  crying?  Come  on,  let's  get  a  drink.&quot;  He  was  walking  rapidly,  bag  in  one  hand,  hustling  her  along.  He  looked  brown  and  happy.  All  her  reasons  for  things  came  back.  They  sat  down  together  in  the  airport  bar.  It  was  bright  and  friendly,  the  music  familiar  and  gay.  &quot;'The  neighbor's  child  writes  checks  that  bounce,&quot;  she  told  him,  which  was  not  quite  true.  She  was  laughing.  &quot;Oh,  it's  a  long  story.  I'll  tell  you  about  it.&quot;  And  she  told  him.  &quot;I  don't  see  anything  so  long  about  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  anyway,  what's  ten  dollars?&quot;  &quot;I  wondered  that,  too,&quot;  she  said.  