 b"I STOOD,  one  summer  afternoon  I  at  my  grandparents'  house  in  [REDACTED],  looking  through  a  screen  door  onto  the  scarred  wood  of  the  front  porch  and  beyond  it  at  the  dusty  pines  and  parched  blueberry  brambles  on  cither  side  of  the  oyster-shell  path  that  led  down  the  hill  to  the  dock.  The  day,  windless  and  pale,  moved  only  in  the  disembodied  noises  of  small  waves  on  the  rocky  shore  and  in  the  muted  shouts  of  people  in  boats.  Everyone  had  gone  out  to  sail  except  me,  and  I  hesi-  tated  before  the  screen  door,  giving  an  air  of  importance  to  my  loitering,  so  that  NeeNee,  my  nurse,  wouldn't  hurry  me  upstairs  for  my  nap.  The  scene  before  me  was  imbued  by  the  quiet  unreality  of  quivering  heat  waves,  and  I  fixed  my  attention  on  the  fine  wire  mesh  of  the  screen,  longing  to  evaporate-to  avoid  taking  my  nap  in  the  stuffy  third-floor  room  with  all  of  life  outside,  in  boats,  and  only  my  nurse  and  me  inhabiting  the  tepid  vacuum  of  a  huge  house  emp-  ty  in  the  afternoon.  With  my  eyes  fo-  cussed  upon  the  screen,  the  world  be-  yond  seemed  even  less  real,  and  I  felt  it  was  possible  to  achieve  unheard-of  feats,  there  in  the  stifling  front  hall,  with  the  spurious  dazzle  of  the  screen  in  front  of  my  eyes  and  the  faded  day  outside.  Possible  to  fly,  to  breathe  under  water,  to  imagine  myself  forty  .  .  .  And  so,  transfixed  like  an  insect  to  the  shin-  ing,  infinitesimal  cubes  of  wire,  I  fell  into  the  waking  swoon  that,  with  me,  always  preceded  necessity-nap-taking,  or  getting  ready  quickly,  or  behaving  nicely  in  the  presence  of  grownups.  Suddenly,  there  were  voices-not  my  nurse's  single  drone  but  the  re-  assuring  sounds  of  my  grandparents,  the  pillars  of  my  reality.  They  came  up  the  oyster-shell  path,  and  my  grand-  father  said  with  impressive  authority,  in  answer  to  a  question  of  my  grand-  mother's,  &quot;I  doubt  it.&quot;  &quot;Doubt.&quot;  An  adult  word.  I  must  wait  for  the  right  moment  to  use  it.  I  am  the  youngest  of  all  the  children  in  this  house  except  for  my  brother,  and  he  doesn't  count.  Sally  and  Dicky  don't  know  &quot;doubt,&quot;  I  am  sure,  and  neither  does  Tito  or  Buffy.  They  cer-  tainly  will  pay  attention  to  me  when  I  use  it.  Sally  and  Buffy  will  let  me  play  and  giggle  with  them  at  the  boys,  and  Tito  will  stop  Indian-twisting  my  arm.  I  will  wait  until  they  ask  me  a  ques-  tion  and  then  'll  say,  &quot;I  doubt  it.&quot;  HE  next  morning  sparkled.  'The  sky,  a  deep  blue,  threw  the  far-off  [REDACTED]  hills  into  splendid  relief,  and" b"the  ocean,  smooth  as  ice,  glided  about  the  contours  of  sailboats  at  mooring  and  past  the  swaving  sea  grass  un-  der  the  dock,  where  it  lapped  with  the  gentle  spank  of  a  flat  palm.  Sally,  Buffy,  and  I  were  in  a  rowboat,  tak-  ing  turns  demonstrating  our  technique  as  rowers,  and  gathering  up  from  the  blazing  sun  an  almost  intolerable  amount  of  heat  to  heighten  the  joy  of  our  first  plunge  into  the  water.  I  rowed,  carefully  feathering  the  oars  and  thinking  about  &quot;doubt,&quot;  my  new  word,  not  knowing  what  it  meant  but  confident  of  its  adult  credentials.  Sally  sat  in  the  stern  trailing  her  fingers  through  the  rippled  wake.  Buffy  sat  in  the  bow  holding  a  piece  of  seaweed  in  the  water  and  watching  its  ramified  de-  sign.  Dicky  and  Tito,  sitting  on  the  dock,  already  in  trunks,  practiced  knots  and  threw  crab  apples  at  us.  Sally  turned  around  and  said,  &quot;Let's  go  in.  I'm  dying  to  swim.&quot;  I  held  the  oars  out  of  the  water,  and  the  rowboat  slowed,  stopped,  and  be-  gan  to  turn  slightly  in  the  pull  of  the  tide.  &quot;O.K.?  Let's  go  swimming  now.  Are  you  going  swimming,  Fatty?&quot;  They  called  me  Fatty  as  a  joke  because  I  was  so  thin.  &quot;I  doubt  it.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  want  to?  Well,  we  do,  so  let's  go  in.&quot;  I  rowed  them  in  to  the  dock,  and  sat  down  on  the  warm  planks  in  my  shorts  and  jersey  while  Buffy  and  Sally  rushed  up  to  the  house  to  change.  Dicky  ran  across  the  length  of  the  dock,  leaped  into  the  air,  hugged  his  knees  to  his  chest,  and  made  a  tre-  mendous  splash  as  he  hit  the  water.  Tito  dove,  did  a  belly  flop,  and  came  up  howling.  They  splashed  and  ducked  each  other,  yelling  and  laughing  in  their  hoarse,  breaking  boy  voices.  Sally  and  Buffy  raced  down  the  oyster-shell  path  barefoot  in  their  frill-bottomed  bathing  suits,  shrieking  in  mock  pain  as  bits  of  shell  pricked  their  feet.  My  little  brother  came  after  them  in  his  enormous  orange  life  jacket,  followed  by  NeeNee,  who  sat  next  to  me  at  the  foot  of  the  gangway  and  asked  me  if  I  wanted  to  swim.  Imprisoned  by  my  utterance,  miser-  ably  aware  that  the  word  I  had  thought  so  adult  had  failed  to  astonish  any-  one,  wondering  vaguely  if  &quot;doubt&quot;  meant  &quot;no,&quot;  since  its  effect  was  the  same,  yet  loath  to  relinquish  the  word  and  my  ownership  of  it  by  admitting  that  I  longed  to  swim,  I  looked  seri-  ously  at  the  water-darkened  dock  and  repeated,  &quot;I  doubt  it.&quot;"