 b"IT  was  that  time  when,  after  a  per-  I  fect  summer  day,  shadows  grew  among  the  shingled  beach  houses,  and  along  the  margin  ofthe  beach  the  sea  was  silvery  and  still;  the  hot  sun  cooled  in  the  flat  blue  sky,  gulls  shrieked  and  peeled  away  toward  their  isolated  cove  like  malicious  ghosts,  and  the  last  Sunfish,  boggling  close  to  shore,  began  to  fidget  and  float  in  on  an  impercep-  tible  current,  its  red  sail  sagging  on  the  horizon.  It  was  the  time  when  the  children  were  beginning  to  be  quiet  and  to  separate  themselves  from  abstract  clusters  of  friends,  to  turn  their  backs  upon  each  other,  to  tumble  apart  and  sit  alone,  to  tend  to  be  little  more  than  objects  tossed  up  on  the  sand  by  some  departing  tide.  Their  sun-darkened,  water-stained,  wind-dried  skin  was  cool  and  rough  now;  they  felt  their  shoulders  with  their  chins  for  possible  sunburn,  despite  a  long  summer's  ex-  posure,  and  they  peered  at  the  enor-  mous  sky  as  if  watching  for  a  sign.  The  sweet-faced  gray  cat  stepped  lightly  over  the  sand  she  detested  and,  ignor-  ing  everybody,  headed  toward  the  house;  she  spent  her  days  in  total  ex-  haustion  in  the  front  yard  under  the  scrub  oaks  and  pines,  or  gnawing  the  sand  out  of  her  paws,  or  crouched  on  the  breakwater,  spying  with  tipped  ears  on  the  little  waves  that  raced  back  and  forth  beneath  her.  On  a  small  patch  of  grass  above  the  beach,  the  parents,  in  shorts  and  shirts  matching  the  yellow  and  turquoise  and  pink  and  blue  sails  that  the  boys  had  started  to  roll  up  for  the  night,  gazed  at  the  children  and  the  sky  and  the  sea,  and  sighed,  and     CHILDREN  clutched  their  tall  glasses  of  vodka  and  gin  and  rum  and  whiskey  in  paper  napkins  to  absorb  the  moisture,  and  when  they  spoke  it  was  as  if  they  were  strangers  instead  of  people  who  had  been  neighbors  for  years  along  the  beach  in  summer.  The  brown  poodle  lay  at  their  feet,  never  taking  her  eyes  away  from  the  children,  too  full  of  love  to  budge,  her  cup  running  over.  Lanky,  who  was  knock-kneed  but  not  old  enough  to  know  it,  passed  the  parents  on  her  way  to  the  beach.  She  had  showered  and  put  on  her  shift,  one  of  the  several  sent  to  her  by  her  grand-  mother  from  Palm  Beach  or  Edgar-  town.  Her  blond  hair  was  long  and  now  damp  and  stringy  from  the  show-  er,  and  she  had  plastered  it  behind  her  ears.  On  her  way  down  the  stairs  from  the  bedroom,  she  had  passed  her  older  brother,  fourteen  and  smelling  like  un-  cooked  bacon,  incredibly  coiled  in  a  wicker  chair  that  concealed  him  from  the  world,  the  telephone  nestled  in  his  lap.  He  was,  she  knew,  talking  to  a  girl  he  liked,  the  one  he  liked  best  now  and  might  marry  when  he  was  out  of  college,  and  she  had  heard  him  say,  &quot;What  noise?  Oh,  that?  You  mean  that  noise?  'That's  me-breathing!&quot;  Her  brother  was  tall,  with  skinny,  bony  feet,  which  he  had  placed  high  on  the  telephone  table,  and  as  he  spoke  he  bent  one  leg  toward  his  left  hand  and  with  his  thumb  scraped  at  a  cal-  lus  on  his  little  toe,  which  he  blamed  on  tennis  sneakers  that  did  not  fit,  although  their  father  had  told  him  that  it  was  not  due  to  the  sneakers  but  to  wrinkled  socks-he  often  put  them  on,  when  he  was  in  a  hurry  for  an  early-  morning  tennis  date  and  had  almost  slept  too  late,  with  the  heel  on  the  top  of  his  foot-and  then  their  father  would  say  that  he  was  damned  if  he  was  going  to  buyanyone  new  sneakers  right  at  the  end  of  summer.  Their  father,  depending  on  mysterious  oc-  currences  in  his  own  personal  life,  could  be  kind  or  cruel,  and  it  was  often  hard  to  tell  which  he  would  be.  Cruel  one  day,  kind  the  next  seemed  to  be  the  way  it  went.  Lanky  passed  the  parents,  and  her  back  prickled  with  the  casual  arrows  of  their  attention.  She  did  not  mind;  she  supposed  that  they  would  be  saying  something  about  her  being  dressed  and  primped  at  herage  and  theynot  even  going  into  town  to  dinner.  She  care-  fully  watched  her  feet,  depressed  by  the  white  spots  on  them  where  insect  bites  had  caused  scabs  that  fell  off,  or  shells  and  stones  had  scraped  them  as  she  sprawled  in  the  sand.  The  tag  end  of  a  departing  breeze  tightened  the  red-and-white  shift  against  her  body,  and  for  an  instant  the  two  small  dots  of  her  pelvis  stood  forth;  then  it  bagged  again  as,  balancing  backward,  she  picked  her  way  downhill  toward  the  water.  'She's  beginning  to  notice  boys,&quot;  the  parents  were  saying,  with  a  sigh.  They  turned  and  looked  at  the  red  sail  dangling  on  the  horizon  as  the  Sunfish  floated  peacefully  toward  the  shore.  On  the  flat  surface  of  the  beach,  Lanky  straightened  her  shoulders,  glanced  indifferently  at  the  sea,  and  found  an  accommodating  rock  on  the  breakwater  along  which  her  right  arm  could  rest  and  support  her.  She  gath-  ered  up  a  handful  of  her  hair  and  spread  it  with  her  fingers  in  a  drying  motion.  Miles  away  from  the  round  orange  sun  a  small,  scarcely  visible  moon  spotted  the  sky.  &quot;I'll  come  to  thee  by  moonlight,&quot;  Lanky  remembered,  and  then  stooped  to  pick  up  a  white  egg-shaped  rock  in  case  the  parents  should  think  she  was  thinking  silly  things.  She  straightened  up  and  exam-  ined  the  rock  as  it  lay  in  the  palm  of  her  hand.  &quot;I'll  come  to  thee  by  moonlight,&quot;  she  said  inside  her  mind,  &quot;though  hell  should  bar  the  way.&quot;  &quot;Hell&quot;  was  a  word  the  children  were  not  allowed  to  say  unless  it  referred  to  the  opposite  of  Heaven,  which  in  this  case  it  did,  although  an  acceptable  substitute  in  a  fit  of  " b"temper  was  h-e-double-  hockey-stick.  Though  hell  should  bar  the  way.  But  she  was  blond,  fair-  haired  and  blue-eyed,  and  the  other  girl,  Bess,  was  black-eyed-Bess,  the  landlord's  black-eyed  daughter.  And  Lanky  did  not  understand  what  her  father  was,but  she  was  sure  he  was  not  a  landlord.  &quot;They  grow  up  so  fast  these  days,&quot;  the  par-  ents  said,  nodding.  IN  early  spring,  when  the  forsythia  firstspills  its  pot  of  gold,  the  older  children  begin  to  think  of  summer  and  of  going  away,  going  away  from  rugs  and  re-  quired  reading,  from  shoes  and  home-  work,  from  the  bland,  pink  spaghetti  in  the  cafeteria  and  the  slippery  salads,  from  chores  related  to  the  garage  and  yard  and  keeping  their  rooms  picked  up.  They  begin  then  to  hear  the  sea  and  foghorns  in  the  hot,  wet  haze,  to  smell  the  sea  at  low  tide  when  they  gather  mussels  that  they  will  eat  with  garlic  butter  (there  will  always  be  either  not  enough  or  too  many),  to  wonder  which  of  the  younger  ones  will  be  the  first  to  learn  to  swim  this  year-one  of  the  little  girls  giggling  at  the  end  of  her  kickboard  or  one  of  the  little  boys  bowled  over  by  the  surf  and  coming  up  mad  as  a  hornet.  There  are  only  days  in  the  summer-long,  foolish  dayswith  no  lines  in  them.  In  their  natural  state,  chil-  dren  do  not  depend  upon  the  clock  or  time;  they  live  by  light  and  by  shadow  and  by  their  appetites-as,  for  instance,  they  are  either  hungry  every  five  min-  utes  or  hungry  when  it  is  dark,  which  to  the  parents  means  at  five  o'clock  in  winter  and  nine  o'clock  in  summer.  &quot;@  O  healthy,&quot;  the  parents  were  say-  ing,  looking  at  the  children.  &quot;It's  been  such  a  good  summer.  Butyou  hear  of  so  many  terrible  things.  ..  .&quot;  The  parents  sighed  and  thought  of  go-  ing  back  home  and  raised  their  glasses  to  their  lips.  Who  can  cure  us?  Who  will  save  the  children?  The  Sunfish  slid  into  shallow  wa-  ter,  and  the  boy  flung  himself  out  of  the  white  shell  with  a  great  splash  and  grasped  it  firmly.  With  his  back  to  the  beach,  he  began  to  tug  the  boat  onto  the  sand;  his  black  brief  swimming  trunks  slipped  to  show  a  narrow  band  of  indecent  flesh  on  his  brown  back.  Lanky  glanced  at  the  moon,  which  was  slow,  and  the  other  children  on  the  beach  leaned  back  on  their  palms  flat-  tened  against  the  sand  and  watched,  bored,  as  the  boy  removed  the  center-  board  and  rudder,.  He  brought  the  sail  and  mast  to  the  edge  of  the  water  and  began  to  straighten  and  then  to  roll  the  red  fabric.  The  band  of  white  flesh  shining  below  the  brown  was  the  only  winter  part  of  him;  he  knelt  on  one  knee  as  he  worked,  and  the  sole  of  his  foot  was  a  local  map  of  summer.  And  then  Bert  came  roaring  down  to  his  parents  from  around  the  house,  from  the  small  front  yard  where  the  grass  poked  up  like  needles  in  the  sandy  soil,  where  the  scrub  oaks  and  pines  grew  and  the  thick  pink  and  red  roses  had,  a  few  weeks  before,  been  matted  against  the  worn  railing  that  edged  the  sandy  road.  Lanky's  little  brother,  he  was  about  three  feet  high,  with  hard  round  shoulders,  a  child  who  was  usually  somewhere  else.  The  universe  rocked  with  the  thud  of  his  square  bare  feet;  his  faded  yellow  trunks  with  the  green  sea  horse  riding  on  the  right  thigh  were  taut  over  his  solid  behind  and  the  delicate  bundle  in  front,  and  his  sun-baked  hair  lay  over  his  head  like  a  swatch  of  hayfield  after  the  combine  has  been  by.  &quot;All  motion,&quot;  Bert's  parents  said,  sighing.  Bert  braked  in  front  of  his  parents  and  took  a  deep  breath  and  then  swal-  lowed.  He  opened  his  mouth  and  stood  snapping  the  band  of  his  swimming  trunks,  and  he  stared  past  them  as  if  at  footprints  he  had  left  in  the  heavy  grass.  &quot;Our  cat  is  eating  a  squirrel,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  squirrel  is  a  rodent,&quot;  his  mother  said.  Bert  looked  directly  at  his  mother.  &quot;I  saw  its  heart,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  turned  and  raced  down  the  hill  toward  Lanky  and  the  sea.  The  boy  had  fin-  ished  rolling  up  the  red  sail;  he  picked  it  up  and  put  it  over  his  shoulder  and,  with  the  centerboard  under  his  other  arm,  the  rudder  grasped  in  his  hand,  he  started  up  the  beach  toward  the  houses.  As  he  passed  Lanky,  his  feet  scattered  a  holy  spray  of  sand.  She  looked  up  at  the  moon,  which  was  growing  brighter;  then  she  slid  slowly  down  the  rock  to  the  warm,  dry  sand.  Bert  landed  in  the  sand  next  to  her,  pulled  his  legs  up  in  front  of  him,  and  began  to  sniff  and  then  to  lick  his  knees.  Lanky  looked  at  the  Sunfish,  an  abandoned  shell,  glitter-  ing  beyond  any  possible  high  tide,  its  centerboard  and  rudder  and  sail  and  mast  gone.  She  turned  her  head  to  the  houses  at  the  top  of  the  hill.  The  boy  had  gone,  too,  and  the  parents  were  disappearing  into  the  evening,  their  bright  colors  faded  into  that  mysterious  time  after  which  it  would  suddenly  be  night.  The  brown  poodle  came  down  and  examined  the  children  with  her  round  brown  eyes.  Then  she  stretched  and  lay  down,  her  head  on  her  paws,  and  closed  her  eyes  and  sighed.  Lanky  thought  of  the  next  thing.  It  would  be  morning;  the  crazy  jays  would  fuss  at  the  sun  that  crept  up  beyond  the  fringes  of  night,  the  brown  poodle  would  sit  patiently  staring  out  of  the  screen  door  until  someone  opened  it  for  her,  the  sweet-faced  gray  cat  would  sip  with  closed  eyes  at  her  dish  of  milk,  and  down  the  sandy  front  yard,  black  as  the  night  it  might  have  been  part  of,  tail  up,  flat-footed,  hard  as  nails,  tough  as  they  come,  the  outside  cat  would  appear,  tracing  the  streaks  of  early  sun  along  the  rutted  driveway. "