 b"YOU  know  how  long  Mama  was  i  sick.  Down.  The  Piggly  let  us  and  let  us  have  all  they  could.  Yes,  everybody  did  all  they  could.  But  it  got  to  wherewith  the  end  ex-  penses-I  paid  a  lady  to  stay  with  her  and  went  on  in  to  the  King's  Town  Bank.  I  hadn't  ever  been  in  the  bank  before.  It's  nice  in  there.  Mr.  [REDACTED]  waited  on  me.  My  uncle  used  to  work  for  them  and  right  away  he  knew  who  I  was.  Well,  what  I  got  that  day,  one  hundred  and  sixty-four  dollars,  is  right  at  what  I  owe  today.  The  reason  it  stayed  the  same  was  that  I  paid  the  cost  of  the  money  but  wasn't  able  to  pay  it  back  itself.  But  you  see  when  that  money's  due,  every  time  it  comes  due,  I  am  back  in  that  bank.  I  see  Mr.  [REDACTED]  again  and  tell  him  exactly  how  it  is.  These  seven  whiteface  I  have  now  are  the  same  seven  we  had  when  Mama  passed.  It  wouldn't  take  but  one  to  pay  the  note.  But  Mr.  Roosevelt,  ev-  ery  time  I  can  catch  up  with  him,  says  not  yet.  Oh,  yes,  he  has  been  running  this  plantation  so  many  years  his  word  is  law.  He  listens  to  that  radio  talk  early  in  the  morning  and  says  no,  Rox-  ie,  not  yet  awhile.  The  market's  go-  ing  up.  Well,  what  I  have  been  telling  you  is  the  way  it  has  been.  But  Mr.  Hous-  ton  last  time  I  was  in  the  bank  said  that  even  if  I  was  as  good  as  gold-  those  were  his  words-I  would  have  to  pay  the  money  this  month.  It  had  been  too  long.  His  examiners  were  coming  from  New  Orleans  and  they  were  going  to  examine  him  and  find  that  part  of  the  bank's  money  gone  and  I  would  have  to  pay.  I  walked  on  home,  my  mind  at  peace  like  it  always  is  because  I  trust  God  (He's  been  so  good,  so  good  through  the  years),  and  when  I  got  to  the  house  I  put  down  my  little  bundle  here-always  carry  a  fresh  apron  to  see  can  I  run  onto  new  housework  and  make  some  change-and  I  kneel  there  on  the  porch  and  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  good  people  like  Mr.  Hous-  ton  and  the  Piggly  and  them.  No-  body  can  see  through  my  sweet  olive  bush  and  I  pray  whenever  I  feel  like  it.  Then  I  go  on  in,  everything  so  neat  and  pretty  with  those  ready-made  flowers  on  Mama's  dresser,  the  doily  under  them  never  losing  starch  be-  cause  that  kind  don't  use  any  water.  And  I  say  to  myself,  I've  got  to  go  ahead  and  sell  a  whiteface-but  which  whiteface  and  how  to  keep  Mr.  Roose-  velt  from  being  vexed  if  I  do  sell.  That's  something  not  everybody  un-  derstands.  Unless  he  is  pleased  with  you  and  wants  you  right  where  you  are,  you  can't  stay  on  this  place.  Oh,  he's  good,  mighty  good,  but  he  wants  to  say  or  not  say  what  lady  people  do.  One  reason  he  acts  that  way  is  the  time  I  had  thinking  I  was  married  to  Mr.  Cecile  Collier.  I  never  could  see  the  whole  thing  of  that.  Parts  of  it  are  clear  in  my  mind,  but  never  all.  I  cooked  to  suit  Mr.  Collier,  he  praised  that,  I  kept  on  about  how  fine  he  was  and  raised  pigs  and  things  up  to  a  size  he  could  sell  just  on  peelings-never  thought  of  buying  a  sack  of  feed-but  then  he  complained  he  couldn't  make  a  wife  of  me.  When  I  would  ask  him-  I  try  to  be  true  to  our  Lord  and  not  live  without  a  license-why  can't  we  go  in  to  the  Courthouse  and  ...  and finish  it,  Mr.  Collier  would  shake  his  head  just  like  you  see  me  shaking  mine  now.  And  he  wasn't  satisfied,  I  know  that,  because  he  went  on  off  without  a  word  to  me  or  Mama.  He  took  a  few  little  things-not  much,  a  hoe  and  half  a  book  of  S.  &amp;  H.-and  left  me  single.  Still,  I  am  as  contented  and  keep  as  close  to  God  as  I  possibly  can,  not  knowing  when  He  will  want  me,  but  this  money  I  owe  has  risen  up  across  my  mind,  bothering  it.  Well,  the  day  before  yesterday,  I  was  picking  berries  down  near  the  turn  in  the  creek  and  I  met  an  old  man  you  may  know  him-that  stays  over  on  the  Moon  Range.  He  looked  at  me  just  as  funny  and  we  started  talking.  He  was  a  nice  old  man,  and  before  I  knew  what  I  was  doing  I  had  told  him  all  my  worry  about  the  money.  &quot;Why,  there's  nothing  to  that,&quot;  he  said,  awfully  old  but  still  like  he  had  his  mind.  &quot;I'll  pay  that  for  you  and  think  nothing  of  it.&quot;  Dear  good  sweet  Jesus,  I  thought.  How  did  you  ever  know  to  put  this  exact  old  man  right  here  in  these  bush-  es?  &quot;When  can  we  arrange  it?&quot;  I  asked  him.  &quot;When  can  you  set  to  go  in  to  the  bank  with  me,  or  how  would  you  like  to  do  it?&quot;  Their  faces  looked  just  as  clear  in  my  mind-Mr.  Hous-  ton's  and  the  other  bank  people's-  smiling  at  the  money,  Have  you  ever  had  a  dream  when  the  end  of  it  won't  come?  The  good  part  just  keeps  going  on  and  on,  too  long  for  you  to  trust  it?  When  I  got  home  and  thought  about  that  old  man-he'd  taken  a  hatful  of  berries  I  gave  him  on  back  to  the  Moon  Range-his  kindness  was  so  real  that  I  began  to  think  he  wasn't  any  natural  man.  Still,  he  had  said  he  would  come  to  the  bank  at  nine  o'clock.  He  told  me  I  could  geta  ride  with  a  truck  that  would  be  going  from  the  Moon  Range  to  King's  Town  and  that  it  would  stop  for  me  at  Buck's  corner.  So  he  must  have  been  an  actual  man  and  in  his  right  head  to  settle  all  of  this.  Please  now  don't  tell  Mr.  Roosevelt  about  this  new  man.  Ever  since  I  went  through  that  disappointment  with  Mr.  Col-  lier,  he  has  taken  right  smart  of  his  time  to  make  sure  I'm  not  acting  foolish,  and  he's  right,  he's  right,  but  let  me  go  on.  When  I  got  up  the  day  we  were  supposed  to  pay  the  mon-  ey,  I  went  out  andsaw  to  the  stock-there  they  were  lined     " b"up by  the  back  door  for  their  cottonseed  meal  and  lick  of  salt,  all  seven,  and  I  petted  them  like  I  always  do.  Then  I  put  on  my  town  clothes  and  that  pair  of  play  shoes  that  were  too  tight  for  the  lady  in  King's  Town  that  I  work  for  on  Saturdays-light  blue  and  pretty  as  a  picture.  I  caught  the  pickup  at  the  place  the  old  man  told  me  and  got  to  the  bank  early,  too  early  for  his  prom-  ise.  But  after  a  few  people  have  passed  and  I  have  spoken,  here  comes  the  Moon  Range  station  wagon  and  pulls  up  to  the  bank  curb  where  I  am  sitting  on  the  bottom  step.  Out  gets  the  same  identical  man  who  wanted  to  pay.  He  looks  all  around  before  he  finds  me.  Then  he  smiles  and  I  start  helping  him  up  the  steps  one  at  a  time.  &quot;I  guess  you  see  now  that  I  am  as  good  as  my  word,&quot;  he  says.  In  the  lobby  I  didn't  know  exactly  where  to  take  him,  but  Mr.  [REDACTED]  came  right  out  and  touched  my  sleeve.  I  told  him  what  we  had  come  to  do,  and  he  was  happy  like  I  knew  he  would  be.  He  led  us  in  to  his  part  of  the  bank  and  put  out  chairs  for  us  while  he  went  to  get  the  note.  Looking  right  into  the  face  of  this  new  man,  I  got  to  thinking,  With  him  and  the  seven  whiteface  I  needn't  to  worry  again  about  anything  the  rest  of  my  life.  He  was  so  soft  looking  in  all  those  wrinkles.  His  eyes  were  cata-  racted  up  some,  but  you  could  tell  he  could  still  see  out  of  them.  His  hands  were  stiff  and  curved  like  they  were  around  something,  but  they  weren't.  Mr.  [REDACTED]  came  back  and  put  my  signature  note  down  on  his  desk.  &quot;All  right  now,  Roxie,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;we  are  going  to  mark  this  paid  and  you  can  forget  it.&quot;  I  felt  awfully  bad  to  call  him  just  straight  out  like  that,  but  theold  man  wasn't  listening.  &quot;Excuse  me,  [REDACTED];  I  said,  &quot;but  it  is  time  to  do  it.  It  is  time  to  pay  the  money.&quot;  Maybe  he  was  waiting  for  me  to  say  when  I  would  pay  him  back,  I  thought,  but  no,  he  didn't  have  anything  on  his  mind  but  plain  kindness.  He  got  up  on  his  feet  and  began  to  feel  around  in  his  pockets,  pulling  his  suspenders  down  so  far  I  was  afraid  to  look  for  fear  I  might  see  his  drawers.  Then  he  drew  it  out,  a  blue  check  like  the  kind  the  govern-  ment  sends,  and  handed  it  over  to  Mr.  [REDACTED].  &quot;Well,  I  declare,  Willard,&quot;  Mr.  [REDACTED]  said,  &quot;you  liked  to  have  fooled  me  there  for  a  minute.  I  thought  you  didn't  have  it.&quot;  He  got  up  out  of  the  bank  chair  and  took  the  old  man's  arm.  'Thank  you  very  much,  Now  here's  the  check  back  and  Roxie's  all  taken care  of.  You  better  hurry  on  back  to  the  Moon  Range  or  you'll  miss  dinner  with  the  hands.&quot;  He  walked  with  the  old  man  clear  to  the  door,  but  Mr.  Willard-that  was  who  it  was-made  him  stop  long  enough  to  turn  around  and  wave  me  goodbye.  He  was  certain-  ly  lovely.  Mr.  [REDACTED]  explained  to  me  that  he  wouldn'thave  hurt  Willard's  feelings  for  anything  in  the  world,  but  that  check  had  to  be  signed  by  the  foreman  at  the  Moon  Range.  Some  new  white  people  from  up  north  have  bought  the  place  and  they  let  Willard  stay  on,  since  it  was  his  home,  but  as  a  general  rule  he  ate  all  the  check  and  went  over,  what  with  a  few  little  cuts  of  Bull  of  the  Woods  and  a  dip  or  two  of  snuff.  It  was  just  a  mistake,  the  whole  thing,  and  I  still  need  to  pay  the  money.  But  I  made  a  nice  friend  and  to  me  that's  what  counts  the  most.  Now  if  I  go  ahead  and  sell  a  white-  face,  Mr.  Roosevelt  is  going  to  see  me  with  only  six  and  make  a  fuss.  Besides,  he  will  scare  that  one-eyed  fellow  who  drives  the  cattle  truck  for  going  behind  his  back  and  then  I  can  never  get  the  truck  again  no  matter  what.  Mama  thought  the  world  and  all  of  him-of  Mr.  Roosevelt,  I  mean.  Whenever  she  sent  for  him,  he  fixed  her  roof,  sprayed  for  roaches,  whatever  she  wanted  him  to  do.  And  a  cold  spell  never  came  that  he  didn't  back  up  to  our  front  gallery  and  throw  us  off  some  wood.  But  much  as  she  thought  of  him  she  wasn't  going  to  humble  down  to  anyone  except  our  Saviour.  If  she  owed  this  money-not  to  sound  proud,  but  her  mind  is  plain  to  me  after  all  those  blessed  years-she  would  have  gone  on  and  sold  a  whiteface,  any  which  one,  and  got  it  paid.  That  is  what  I  have  to  do,  find  her  courage.  And  then  when  he  comes  tothe  door  afterward  I'll  go  and  smile  and  ask  him  in,.  And  when  he  starts  out  about  what  happened-he  thought  I  had  seven  and  there  are  only  six-I'll  be  just  as  quiet  and  wait  on  him  to  finish.  Then  I'l  tell  him  it  was  the  person  who'd  passed's  wishes  being  carried  out-Mama's.  HERE'S  no  need  to  ever  mention  the  part  about  the  old  man-just  keep  all  that  out  like  it  never  happened.  Still  and  all,  when  the  bank  is  paid  I  am  going  to  return  his  kindness  with  some  buttered  biscuits  or  a  sweet-potato  pie.  He  was  so  happy  to  help  me-you  could  see  that-and  he  never  knew  he  didn't,  he  never  knew  he  couldn't.  Bis-  cuits  would  be  about  the  best.  He  might  not  remember  to  bring  back  a  piepan,  old  as  he  is,  and  Mama  set  a  lot  of  store  by  those  three  she  had,  and  I  wouldn't  want  to  lose  sight  of  them  for  her  sake,  I  can  already  tell  that  six  whiteface  is  as  good  as  seven,  with  friends  like  I  have  here  on  earth  and  God  up  yonder  all  the  time,  watching.  I'll  just  fix  a  plate  of  biscuits  and  slip  over  onto  the  Moon  Range  with  it  and  see  how  my  cooking  suits  him."