 b"YOU  should  have  seen  him  when  he  was  a  little  boy,&quot;  he  once  overheard  his  mother  saying  to  a  friend  about  him.  &quot;He  knew  how  I  liked  my  room  to  be  tidy,  and  some-  times  when  I  was  ill  in  bed,  if  it  got  untidy,  he  would  say,  'Close  your  eyes,  and  don't  open  them  till  I  tell  you.'  Then,  while  I  kept  them  closed  and  covered  with  my  hands,  I  would  hear  him  running  about  the  room  putting  everything  in  order.  'All  right,  you  can  openyour  eyes  now,'  he'd  say.  I  would  catch  my  breath  to  show  him  how  delighted  and  surprised  I  was,  and  he  would  stand  there,  proud  and  beam-  ing,  his  eyes  bright  as  blackberries  shin-  ing  in  the  sun,&quot;  He  remembered  not  just  overhear-  ing  his  mother  but  the  actual  times  she  was  referring  to.  He  must  havebeen  eight  or  so.  Now,  over  forty,  he  went  into  the  room,  the  same  room  he  used  to  tidy  up  for  her,  her  room,  which  was  hers  no  more.  She  had  named  it  &quot;the  pomegranate  room,&quot;  because  of  a  pomegranate  tree  outside  the  window.  Perhaps  she  had  foreseen  that  the  pomegranate  would  outlive  her.  It  had.  She  was  in  her  grave-had  been  for  three  years.  Sometimes  a  guest  stayed  in  the  room,  or  his  brother  and  sister-in-  law.  Though  he  would  never  use  it,  when  it  was  vacant  he  would  go  into  it  fairly  often-just  open  the  door,  switch  the  light  on  if  it  was  dark,  and  stand  there  for  a  moment,  surveying  the  emp-  tiness,  or,  rather,  her  absence,  for  the  room  was  fully  furnished  with  the  same  furnitureshe  had  used.  Even  the  books  that  had  been  read  to  her  or  she  had  read  during  her  last  illness  wereon the  bookshelf,  a  few  added  and  a  few  withdrawn.  Hardly  anything  was  miss-  ing;  hardly  anything  had  changed  or  been  changed  around.  The  walls  were  the  same  light  ochre,  with  a  few  more  spots  and  scratches,  since  they  hadn't  been  repainted.  Yes,  the  room  was  just  the  same  as  it  had  been  ever  since  he  could  remember.  &quot;The  same,&quot;he  told  himself,  and  almost  smiled  one  of  those  smiles  that  have  nothing  to  do  with  gladness  but  are  the  slightest  move-  ment  of  the  lips--more  like  a  sigh.  In  the  silence-the  house  was  in  the  coun-  try  outside  Siena,  well  away  from  the  main  road-he  heard  the  air  he  blew  out  of  his  nostrils;  its  sound  was  as  much  as  to  say,  &quot;'This  is  the  way  things  are.&quot;  Arms  folded,  he  brought  a  hand  to  his  chin  and  looked  at  the  bed.  The  same  bedcover.  Not  a  crease.  Nothing  to  straighten  out.  In  the  whole  room  everything  in  its  place.  Nothing  to  tidy  up.  If  she  were  lying  or  sitting  there,  he  couldn't  help  think-  ing,  its  looks  could  only  please  her.  The  room  was  a  picture  of  neatness  and  order.  He  went  out  and  closed  the  door  behind  him.  There  was  noth-  ing  he  could  do.  And  anyway,  as  for  neatness  and  order,  she  was  past  appreciating  those  qualities  now.  Or  perhaps  she  wasn't.  How  could  one  tell?  Perhaps  something  of  us  lingered  in  the  places  we  were  familiar  with,  something  of  us,  if  only  a  memory.  Perhaps  memory  was  a  living  thing,  a  crea-  ture  that  we  harbored  in  our  brains,  that  lived  in  people's  minds,  ubiquitous,  flaring  now  here,  now  there,  clinging  even  toobjects,  extinguishing  itself  slowly,  unwillingly,  and  hav-  ing,  like  anything  alive,  its  own  wild  urge  to  live,  to  bepre-  served.  Perhaps  no  one  was  really  dead  till  he  was  quite  forgotten,  till  everything  he  knew  was  spoiled  and  shat-  tered.  Her  death  was  something  he  could  not  get  over.  Again  and  again  he  went  into  the  room.  What  could  he  do?  Everything  was  in  such  good  order.  Set  flowers  in  the  vase?  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  he  told  himself  as  he  recalled  the  smell  of  the  hundreds  of  flowers  that  had  been  brought  to  her  room  after  her  death.  Their  smell  had  clung  to  the  room  for  days.  A  sickly  smell.  No-no  flowers  " b"for  an  unlived-in  room.  She  would  have  nothing  useless.  But  there  he  went  again,  thinking  of  her  wishes  as  though  they  mattered  now.  Well,  perhaps  they  mattered.  And  if  so,  what,  what,  indeed,  would  she  like  to  have  done  to  the  room?  If  he  could  only  do  something  that  would  make  him  as  happy  as  the  child  he  had  been.  He  felt  so  far  past  the  time  when  even  by  a  simple  thing  joy  was  turned  on  full.  He  was  sitting  in  the  red  arm-  chair  in  the  corner  by  the  window.  After  a  moment,  he  got  up.  Level  with  his  eyes,  two  feet  away,  was  the  book-  shelf,  hanging  from  the  wall.  The  books  were  all  straight,  none  of  them  upside  down,  all  set  the  way  she  liked  them,  neither  too  close  to  the  edge  of  the  shelf  nor  too  far  into  it.  He  took  a  few  steps,  and  his  eyes  settled  on  the  spots,  the  scratches  on  the  walls.  Were  there  enough  of  them  to  justify  painting  the  room  over?  He  went  around  it  like  an  inspector.  Under  the  windowsill  he  found  several  scratches,  several  spots  by  the  radiator;  near  the  bed,  the  wall  had  been  retouched  with  paint  that  did  not  quite  match  the  old.  The  ceiling  had  several  cracks  and  one  large  stain.  Spirited  now,  some  purpose  in  his  eyes,  he  found  more  and  more  blemishes  on  the  walls  He  became  happier  with  each  new  one  that  hesaw.Yes,  defi-  nitely  the  walls  needed  repainting.  She  had  always  loved  fresh  paint-to  cover  the  past,  the  old,  the  soiled,  the  dusty,  what  had  seen  too  much  sickness,  with  something  bright  and  fresh.  He  would  paint  it  the  same  color  butnot  quite,  use  tempera  colors-her  favorite-mix  into  the  burnt  siennaa  tiny  bit  of  red  to  catch  the  light  of  sunset.  \xe2\x80\x98N7ITH  energy,  with  drive,  he  went  into  town  and  bought  the  chalk,  the  colors,  and  glue  in  a  packet,  and  two  brushes-one  wide,  one  thin  for  the  edges-and  plaster  for  the  cracks.  Carefully,  he  mixed  the  paint,  got  the  furniture  out  of  the  way,  closed  himself  in  the  room,  and  started  patch,  ing  the  ceiling,  then  painting.  He  painted  with  alacrity,  the  way  he  had  tidied  the  room  up  in  his  youth;  only  this  took  him  not  just  a  few  minutes  but  two  days.  He  put  in  all  the  hours  he  could  spare.  Nothingseemed  more  important.  At  last  the  room  was  done.  The  floor  was  made  toshine,  the  furni-  ture  polished  and  put  back,  the  books  replaced.  &quot;Well,  it  came  out  well,  didn't  it?&quot;  he  asked  one  of  the  maids  who  had  come  for  the  spring  cleaning.  &quot;Yes,  lovely,&quot;  she  said.  He  asked  another.  &quot;Yes,  really  looks  good,&quot;  she  told  him.  Others,  too,  came  to  see  it,  and  said  how  well  it  had  come  out.  After  they  left,  he  went  into  the  room  alone.  Looking  at  her  bed,  he  could  almost  see  her  uncovering  her  eyes  and  catching  her  breath  to  show  him  her  delight. "