 b"FRED PROUTY, I  was  told  yester-  day,  is  dead-dead,  as  I  imagine  it,  of  cigarettes,  confusion,  and  conscience,  though  none  of  these  was  the  &quot;c&quot;  my  informant  named.  He  died  on  the  [REDACTED],  thousands  of  miles  from  both  his  ex-wives  and  all  his  sad  expensive  children.  I  pictured  him  lying  in  a  highlyclean  hospital  bed,  smothering  in  debt,  interlaced  with  tu-  bular  machinery,  overlooking  a  sprawl-  ing  colorless,  spireless  landscape  worlds  removed  from  the  green  and  pointed  East  that  had  formed  him.  Though  we  had  come  from  the  same  town  (New  Haven)  and  the  same  schools  (Hotch-  kiss,  Yale)  and  the  same  background  (our  grandfathers  had  been  ministers  and  our  fathers  lawyers),  Fred  and  I  never  kept  in  close  touch,  We  were  of  a  generation  that  expressed  affec-  tion  through  shades  of  reticence,  and  dictated  all  its  letters.  The  war,  per-  haps,  had  made  us  conservative  and  cautious;  our  task  had  been  to  bring  a  society  across  a  chasm  and  set  it  down  safely  on  the  other  side,  unchanged.  That  it  changed  later  was  notour  af-  fair.  After  the  war  Fred  had  gone  into  advertising,  and  I  into  securities.  For  a  decade,  we  shared  [REDACTED]  and  in-  termittent  meals.  The  last  time  I  had  him  in  my  home,  there  had  been  a  strangeness  and,  worse,  a  tactlessness  for  which  I  suppose  I  never  quite  for-  gave  him.  It  was  the  high  noon  of  the  Eisenhower  era,  just  before  Fred's  first  divorce.  He  called  me  at  work  and  in-  vited  himself  to  our  apartment  for  a  drink,  and  asked,  surpris-  ingly,  if  he  might  bring  a  friend.  Jeanne  and  I  had  the  West  Thirteenth  Street  place  then.  Of  our  many  apartments,  I  remember  it  most  fondly.  It  was  a  floor  through,  and  had  a  lucidity,  a  spaciousness  in  its  two  main  rooms  and  a  directness  in  its  details  that  was  reassuring.  The  metal  and  marble  of  the  little  unusable  fireplaces  had  never  been  painted  over,  and  no  dynamic  fairies  had  knocked  down  any  plaster  to  expose  bricks.  The  front  windows  looked  across  the  street  into  an  elementary  school,  and  the  back  windows,  across  some  untended  yards  crammed  with  trees  of  heaven,  into  a  mysterious  factory.  W  hat-  ever  the  factory  made,  the  process  en-  tailed  great  shimmering  ribbons  and  spinning  reels  of  color  being  manipu-  lated  like  giant  harps  by  Negro  men  and  [REDACTED]  Rican  women.  Rising  in  the  morning,  we  could  see  them  spinning,  and  eating  breakfast  in  the  kitchen  we  saw  into  windows  where  children  were  snipping  and  pasting  up,  in  season,  East-  er  eggs  and  pumpkins,  Christmas  trees  and  hearts  and  hatchets  and  cherries.  Almost  always  a  breeze  flowed  through  our  two  large  rooms,  now  from  bed-  room  to  living  room,  from  factory  to  school,  and  now  the  other  way,  bring-  ing  with  it  the  sounds  of  street  traffic,  which  included  the  drunks  on  the  pave-  ment  outside  the  Original  Mario's.  Ours  was  the  third  floor-the  lowest  we  have  ever  lived.  Fred  came  promptly  at  seven.  As  he  climbed  the  stairs,  I  thought  the  woman  behind  him  was  his  wife.  In-  deed,  she  resembled  his  wife-an  inch  taller,  perhaps,  and  a  bit  more  adven-  turously  dressed,  but  the  same  physical  type,  heavy  and  rounded  below  the  waist,  ectomorphically  slender  above.  The  two  women  had  the  same  kind  of  ears,  cupped  and  protruding,  which  compelled  the  same  cover-up  hairdo  and  understated  earrings.  Fred  intro-  duced  her  to  us  as  Priscilla  Evans.  Jeanne  had  not  known  Marjorie  Prouty  well,  yet  to  ask  her  to  meet  and  entertain  this  other  woman  on  no  basis  beyond  the  flat  implication  of  her  being  Fred's  mistress  was,  as  perhaps  Fred  in  his  infatuation  imperfectly  understood,   arm  went  for\xe2\x80\x9c  ward  stiffly  to  take  the  girl's  hand.  &quot;The  girl&quot;  more  by  status  thanby  age.  Priscilla  was,  though  unmarried  and  a  yearor  two  younger,  one  of  us-  I  never  knew  where  Fred  met  her,  but  it  could  have  been  at  work  or  a  party  or  a  crew  race,  if  he  still  went  to  them.  She  had  the  grace  to  be  embarrassed,  and  I  wondered  how  Fred  had  per-  suaded  her  to  come.  He  must  have  told  her  I  was  a  very  close  friend,  which  perhaps,  in  his  mind,  I  was.  I  was  New  Haven  to  him,  distant  and  safe;  touchingly,  his  heart  had  nev-  er  left  that  middling  town.  I  would  like  to  reward  the  loyalty  of  a  ghost  by  remembering  that  evening-hour,  really,  for  we  did  not  invite  them  for  dinner-as  other  than  dull.  But,  in  part  because  Jeanne  and  I  felt  con-  strained  from  asking  them  any  direct  questions,  in  part  because  Priscilla  was  rigid  and  demure,  in  part  because  Fred  seemed  sheepishly  bewildered  by  what  he  had  done,  our  conversation  was  stilted.  We  discussed  what  was  current  in  those  departed  days:  McCarthy's  fall,  Kefauver's  candidacy,  Dulles'  tactlessness.  Dulles  had  recently  called  Goa  a  &quot;Portuguese  province,&quot;  offend-  ing  496e646961,  and  given  his  &quot;brinkman-  ship&quot;  interview  to  Life,  offending  ev-  eryone.  Priscilla  said  she  thought  Dulles  should  be  given  credit  for  at  least  his  honesty,  his  &quot;Presbyterian  grit.&quot;  It  is  the  one  remark  of  hers  that  I  re-  member,  and  it  made  me  look  at  her  again.  She  was  like  Marjorie  but  with  a  difference.  There  was  something  twist- " b"ed  and  wry  about  her  face,  some  arresting  trace  of  pain  endured  and  wisdom  reluctantly  acquired.  Her  life,  I  felt,  had  been  cracked  and  mended,  and  in  this  her  form  differed  from  the  smooth  integrity  of  Fred's  wife  or,  for  that  matter,  of  my  own.  My  attention,  then,  for  an  instant  snagged  on  the  irregularity  where  like  a  spinning  maple  seed  Fred's  spirit  had  caught,  taken  root,  and  desperately  flourished.  I  picture  them  sitting  beside  each  other-he  slumped  in  the  canvas  sling  chair,  she  upright  on  the  half  of  the  Sheraton  settee  nearer  him.  He  had  red  hair  receding  on  a  brow  where  the  freckles  advanced.  His  nose  was  thin  and  straight,  his  eyes  pale  blue  and  slightly  bulged  behind  the  silver-frame  spectacles  that,  through  some  eccentric-  ity  of  the  nose  pads,  perched  too  far  out  from  his  face.  His  mouth  was  one  of  those  sharply  cut  sets  of  lips,  virtually  pretty,  that  frown  down  from  portraits  on  bank  walls.  Something  farmerish  made  his  hands  heavy  ;  when  he  clasped  his  knee,  the  knuckles  were  squeezed  white.  In  the  awkward  sling  chair,  he  clasped  his  knee;  his  neck  seemed  red  above  the  fresh  white  collar;  he  was  anxious  for  her.  He  disagreed  with  her  praise  of  Dulles,  knowing  we  were  liberals.  She  sat  demure,  yet  with  some-  thing  gaudy  and  man-catching  about  her  clothes,  and  there  was-I  imagine  or  remember-a  static  energy  imposed  on  the  space  between  her  body  and  Fred's,  as  in  those  visual  foolers  which  now  seem  two  black  profiles  and  now  a  single  white  vase,  so  that  the  arm  of  the  settee,  the  mahogany  end  table  in-  laid  with  satinwood,  the  unlit  lamp  with  the  base  of  beaten  copper,  the  ceramic  ashtray  full  of  unfiltered  butts  shaped  like  commas,  the  very  shadows  and  blurs  of  refraction  were  charged  with  a  mysterious  content,  the  &quot;rela-  tionship&quot;  of  these  two  tense  and  un-  welcome  visitors.  I  want  to  believe  that  Jeanne,  how-  ever  halfheartedly,  invited  them  to  dine  with  us;  of  course  Fred  refused,  saying  they  must  go,  suddenly  rising,  apolo-  getic,  his  big  hands  dangling,  his  lady  looking  up  at  him  for  leadership.  They  left  before  eight,  and  my  embarrassed  deafness  lifts.  I  can  hear  Jeanne  com-  plaining  distinctly,  &quot;Well,  that  was  strange!&quot;  &quot;Very  strange  behavior,  from  Fred.&quot;  &quot;Was  he  showing  her  that  he  has  respectable  friends,  or  what?&quot;  &quot;Surely  that's  a  deduction  she  didn't  need  to  have  proved.&quot;  &quot;She  may  have  a  mistrustful  na-  ture.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  make  of  her?&quot; &quot;I'm  afraid  I  must  say  she  struck  me  as  very  ordinary.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;It's  hilarious,  how  much  of  a  copy  she  is  of  his  wife.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  and  not  as  finished  as  Mar-  jorie,  A  poor  copy.&quot;  &quot;How  far,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;people  go  out  of  their  way  to  messup  their  lives.&quot;  I  was  trying  to  agree  with  some  unstated  assertion  of  hers.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Jeanne  said,  straightening  the  bent  cushions  on  the  settee,  &quot;that  was  very  dismal.  Tell  me.  Are  we  going  to  have  to  see  them  again?&quot;  Are  we  some  sort  of  furniture  so  they  can  play  house,  or  what?&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  sure  not.  I'll  tell  Fred  not,  if  I  must.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care  what  people  do,  but  I  don't  like  being  used.&quot;  I  felt  she  expected  me,  though  in-  nocent,  to  apologize.  I  said,  &quot;I  can't  imagine  what  got  into  Fred.  He's  usually  nothing  if  not  correct.&quot;  For  a  moment,  Jeanne  may  have  considered  letting  me  have  the  last  word.  Then  she  said  firmly,  &quot;I  found  the  whole  thing  extremely  sad.&quot;  HE  next  day,  or  the  day  after,  Fred  called  me  at  the  office,  and  thanked  me.  He  said,  with  a  stammer-  ing  note  of  uncharacteristic  earnest-  ness,  that  it  had  meant  more  to  him  than  I  could  know,  and  some  day  he  would  tell  me  why.  I  may  have  been  incurious  and  cool.  He  did  not  call  again.  Then  I  heard  he  was  divorced,  andhad  left  Madison  Avenue  for  a  consulting  outfit  starting  up  in  [REDACTED].  His  new  wife,  I  was  told,  came  orig-  inally  from  496e646961napolis.  I  tried  to  re-  member  if  Priscilla  Evans  had  had  a  Midwestern  accent  and  could  not.  Meanwhile,  Jeanne  was  having  our  baby  and  we  were  moving  to  a  new  apartment  and  Stevenson  was  running  against  Eisenhower  for  the  second  time.  Years  later,  but  some  time  ago,  when  Kennedy  Airport  was  still  called  Idle-  wild,  Fred  and  I  accidentally  met  in  the  main  terminal-those  acres  of  white  floor  where  the  islands  of  white  waiting  chairs  cast  no  shadows.  He  was  on  his  way  back  to  Los  Angeles.  " b"He  was  doing  publicity  work  for  one  of  the  studios  that  can  television  series.  Although  he  did  not  tell  me,  he  was  on  the  verge  of  his  second  divorce.  He  seemed  heavier,  and  his  hands  were  puffy.  His  red  hair  was  thinning  now  on  the  back  of  his  skull;  there  were  a  few  freckles  in  the  bald  spot.  He  was  wearing  horn-rimmed  glasses,  which  did  not  make  him  look  youthful.  He  kept  taking  them  off,  as  if  bothered  by  their  fit,  exposing,  on  the  bridge  of  his  nose,  the  red  moccasin-shaped  dents  left  by  the  pads  of  his  old  silver  frames.  He  had  somehow  gone  pasty,  sheltered  from  the  [REDACTED]  sun,  and  I  wondered  if  I  looked  equally  tired  and  corrupt  to  him.  Littlein  my  life  had  changed.  Rather  than  move  from  the  city,  we  had  restricted  ourselves  to  one  child.  Kennedy's  bear  market  had  given  me  a  dull  spring.  Fred  and  I  sought  shelter  in  the  blue-curtained  bar  a  world  removed  from  the  sun-stricken  airfield  and  the  glinting  planes  whose  rows  of  rivets  and  portholes  seemed  to  be  spelling  a  mes-  sage  in  punched  code.  He  told  me  about  his  life  without  complaint  and  let  me  guess  that  it  was  going  bad.  He  had  switched  to  filtered  cigarettes  but  there  was  a  new  recklessness  in  his  drinking.  I  watched  his  hands  and  suddenly  re-  membered  how  those  same  hands  had  looked  squeezed  around  the  handle  of  a  lacrosse  stick.  He  apologized  for  the  night  he  had  brought  the  girl  to  our  apartment.  I  saidI  had  almost  forgotten,  but  that  at  the  time  it  had  seemed  out  of  character.  &quot;How  did  we  look?&quot;  he  asked.  I  didn't  understand.  &quot;Worried,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;She  seemed  to  us  much  like  Marjorie.&quot;  He  smiled  and  said,  &quot;That's  how  it  turned  out.  Just  like  Marjorie.&quot;  He  hadhad  three  drinks  and  took  off  his  glasses.  His  eyes  were  still  a  schoolboys,  but  his  mouth  no  longer  would  have  looked  well  on  a  bank  wall;  the  prim  cut  of  it  had  been  boozed  and  blurred  away,  and  a  dragging  cynicism  had  done  something  ineradicable  to  the  corners.  His  lips  groped  for  precision.  &quot;I  wanted  you  to  see  us,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  wanted  somebody  to  see  us  in  love.  I  loved  her  so  much,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  loved  her  so  much  it  makes  me  sick  to  re-  member  it.  Whenever  I  come  back  to  the  city,  whenever  I  pass  any  place  we  went  together  when  it  was  beginning,  I  fall,  I  kind  of  drop  an  inch  or  so  inside  my  skin.  Tommy,  do  you  know  what  I'm  talking  about,  have  you  ever  had  the  feeling?&quot;  I  did  not  think  it  was  a  correct  question  or  that  I  was  expected  to  29     answer  it.  Perhaps  my  silence  was  a  rebuke.  He  rubbed  his  forehead  and  closed  his  eyes  and  said,  &quot;I  knew  it  was  wrong.  I  knew  it  was  going  to  end  in  a  mess.  It  had  nowhere  else  to  go.  That's  why  I  brought  her  over  that  night,  though  she  hated  it  and  didn't  want  to  come.  I  wanted  somebody  I  knew  to  see  us  when  we  were  happy  together.  No,  I  wanted  somebody  who  knew  me  tosee  me  happy.  I  had  never  known  I  could  be  that  happy.  I  wanted  you  and  Jeanne  to  see  us  together  be-  fore  it  was  spoiled.&quot;  He  opened  his  scared  eyes  and  told  me,  &quot;So  it  wouldn't  be  totally  lost.&quot; "