 b"FOR  anybody  who,  like  me,  has  Falways  regarded  the  medical  pro-  fession  with  a  mixture  of  awe  and  mistrust-engendered,  I  suspect,  by  harassment  of  one's  tonsils  in  youth  and  overexposure  to  Sir  Luke  Fildes  gloomy  masterpiece  &quot;The  Doctor&quot;-  there  was  more  than  a  grain  of  vindi-  cation  in  the  Times  of  [REDACTED]  the  other  day.  A  group  ofthe  surgical  \xc3\xa9lite,  it  appears,  held  a  conference  at  the  Royal  College  of  Nursing  to  dis-  cuss  an  ordinarily  hush-hush  topic-  the  question  of  patients  operated  on  for  the  wrong  complaint.  One  of  the  participants  was  a  Mr.  F.  P.  Raper,  consultant  surgeon  of  the  United  Leeds  Hospital,  and,  whatever  his  effect  on  the  audience,  he  wrung  a  hoarse  shout  of  approval  from  yours  truly.  Said  the  account:  &quot;[  Mr.  Raper]  emphasized  the  importance  of  the  sur-  geon  seeing  the  patient  before  the  opera-  tion  in  the  anesthetist's  room  to  make  sure  that  he  was  the  right  patient  and  to  check  on  the  operation  he  was  to  have.  Thismight  also  reassure  the  pa-  tient  himself  that  the  right  surgeon  was  operating  on  him.&quot;  The  speaker  was  obviously  dwelling  on  the  ideal  rather  than  the  attainable,  for  another  mem-  ber  of  the  symposium,  Dr.  Brooke  Bar-  nett,  of  the  Medical  Defence  Union,  said  that  &quot;they  were  now  dealing  with  the  case  of  a  privatepatient  who  not  only  had  the  wrong  operation  but  the  wrong  surgeon  oper-  ated  on  her.&quot;  I  trust  that  Dr.  Barnett  pleaded  in  extenuation  that  the  plaintiff  was  also  the  wrong  patient,  thus  restoring  a  cozy  semblance  of  logic  to  the  proceedings.  To  be  quite  candid,  the  deeper  one  delves  into  the  British  physi-  cian,  the  more  one's  confidence  in  materia  medica  tends  to  waver.  Not  long  ago,  the  New  York  Times  carried  a  dispatch  from  [REDACTED]  about  some  twelve-foot  pythons  that  a  bank  at  Amersham  was  using  to  discourage  potential  cracksmen.  The  idea  had  been  evolved  by  a  seventy-two-year-old  big-game  hunter  of  Slough,  Buckinghamshire,  named  Bill  Farquar  Moody,  who  was  extending  it  to  safeguard  auto-  mobiles  as  well.  &quot;For  car  protection  I  recommend  a  nice  six-foot  boa  constric-  tor  or  python,&quot;he  was  quoted  as  say-  ing.  &quot;Four  Slough  doctors  have  snakes  in  their  cars.  They  leave  them  on  the  front  seatto  deter  thieves.  It  is  very  effective  seeing  a  rock  python  coiled  around  the  gear  lever.&quot;  Now,  goodness  knows  someone  on  an  errand  of  mercy  has  every  right  to  defend  his  property  from  molesta-  tion,  and  indeed  the  choice  of  a  con-  strictor  rather  than  a  cobra  or  Russell's  viper  bespeaks  a  humane  and  enlight-  ened  spirit.  I  do  feel,  notwithstanding,  that  the  practitioner  who  employs  a  reptile  as  watchdog  invites  situations  that  may  easily  get  out  of  hand.  One  such,  for  example,  emerges  from  the  pages  of  a  sporadic  journal  kept  by  a  young  American  doctor,  Lindsay  Woolsey,  during  a  belated  vacation  in  [REDACTED].  Princes  RisBoroucH,  BuerimmonamsHIRE,  May  7  WHAT  a  hugely  satisfying  week  this  has  been,  and  so  fortuitous  all  because  of  an  impulse,  the  day  after  I  arrived  in  [REDACTED],  to  wander  into  a  Curzon  Street  snack  bar,  which  in  turn  led  to  a  chat  with  an  elderly  lady  in  a tweed  cape,  practically  a  dead  ringer  for  Margaret  Rutherford,  who  per-  suaded  me  to  scrap  my  whole  itinerary.  Whether  it  was  the  American  accent  that  intrigued  her  or  my  camera  equip-  ment,  I  couldn't  make  out,  butwithin  minutes  she  had  taken  complete  charge  of  me  and  was  insisting  I  hire  a  car  and  see  some  of  the  English  country-  side.  I  wasn't  too  keen  about  the  notion  at  first,  for  I  still  had  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  nine  other  capitals  to  get  through  on  the  eighteen-day  tour  the  travel  agency  had  sold  me.  On  reconsidering,  though,  I  realized  how  absurd  it  was  for  a  man  half  dead  from  exhaustion  and  overwork,  snatching  his  first  holi-  day  in  four  years,  to  tie  himself  down  to  a  backbreaking  schedule.  Ninety  min-  utes  later,  I  walked  out  of  a  car-rental  establishment  in  the  Strand  with  the  key  ofa  bright-red  MG,  a  fistful  of  road  maps,  and  a  membership  in  the  R.A.C.,  and  the  very  next  day,  at  eight,  I  was  on  my  way.  Well,  once  I  got  out  of  [REDACTED],  which  consumed  most  ofthe  morning,  everything  was  sheer  delight.  I  headed  northwest,  in  the  general  direction  of  Whipsnade,  dodging  main  roads  wher-  ever  I  could  and  investigating  every  byway  that  took  my  fancy.  The  stone  farmhouses  nestling  in  the  well-ordered  fields,  the  sleepy  churchyards  with  their  ancient  oaks  and  elms,  the  color-  ful  pubs  at  which  I  drank  my  pint  of  bitter-it  was  all  just  one  continu-  ous  delight,  and  the  place  names,  of  course,  were  out  of  this  world:  The  Pheasant  ries,  Leighton  Buz-  zard,  Terrier's  End,  Wardrobes,  Dodd's  Charity,  and  a  pinpoint  on  the  outskirts  of  Tring  called,  believe  it  or  not,  The  Twist.  The  truly  heartwarming  aspect  of  the  trip  thus  far,  though,  has  been  the  civility  and  spon-  taneous  kindness  of  peo-  ple  along  the  way.  Ev-  eryone  extends  himself  to  the  utmost,  perform-  ing  the  smallest  service  so  amiably  you  won-  der  how  the  English  ever  earned  the  reputa-  tion  of  being  cold  and  reserved.  Their  food,  frankly,  doesn't  fill  me  with  quite  such  enthusi-  asm,  and  if  I  never  again  taste  brown  Windsor  soup,  bubble  and  squeak,  or  the  cus-  " b"tard  dessert  called  Spotted  Dog,  I  shan't  repine.  Still,  this  is  mere  faultfinding.  Thanks  to  my  elderly  benefactress  in  the  tweed  cape,  I  feel  all  the  tensions  and  anxieties  of  practice  diminishing  with  each  mile  I  travel.  Tomorrow,  I  turn  southeast  through  the  Chilterns  toward  High  Wycombe,  Amersham,  and  Slough.  I  must  say  I  can't  recall  a  single  period  in  my  life  so  tranquil  and  carefree,  nor  can  I  foresee  how  any-  thing  could  possibly  mar  it.  CHnanroxt  Str.  GiLEs,  May  12  AY  in,  day  out,  my  motor  ramble  continues  to  afford  unalloyed  pleasure,  but  I  should  mention  a  curi-  ous  experience  I  had  at  Amersham  yes-  terday.  Inasmuch  as  my  English  cur-  rency  was  dwindling,  I  stopped  off  at  a  bank  there  to  cash  some  travellers'  checks.  The  cashier  was  apparently  un-  familiar  with  these  particular  checks,  and  excused  himself  to  consult  a  fac-  simile  kept  in  the  rear,  near  the  vaults.  Well,  I  was  leaning  on  the  counter,  waiting  for  him  to  return,  when  a  snake  reared  up  in  the  wicket  less  than  a  yard  from  my  elbow.  Not  a  garter  snake  or  anything  that  small-a  gi-  gantic  creature  with  great  glittering  eyes  and  abody,  thick  around  as  my  arm,  that  must  have  been  a  good  twelve  feet  long.  It  was  one  of  those  characteristic  visitations-purely  hal-  lucinatory,  of  course,  and  induced  by  fatigue  or  eyestrain-that  patients  are  always  reporting,  and  my  diagnostic  training  should  have  enabled  me  to  recognize  it  as  such.  Unfortunately,  I  reacted  emotionally  and,  I  am  ashamed  to  confess,  emitted  a  piercing  scream.  For  a  moment,  everybody  stood  trans-  fixed;  then  the  entire  staff  came  run-  ning  to  ascertain  the  cause,  but  mean-  while  Id  regained  my  composure  sufficiently  to  dismiss  the  incident  with  a  laugh.  Afterward,  I  thanked  my  lucky  stars  I  hadn't  succumbed  to  hysteria  and  blurted  out  a  description  of  what  T'd  seen.  We  Americans  are  considered  eccentric  enough  as  itis  without  resort-  ing  to  such  whoppers.     OarEsHotr  Arms  HoTEL,  SroucH,  May  17  RRIVED  here  last  night  by  way  of  Gerrard's  Cross  and  Stoke  Poges,  and  have  decided  to  pause  here  a  day  or  two  to  rest  up.  To  tell  the  truth,  I'm  a  little  tense,  and  I  can't  quite  figure  out  why.  Have  I  seen  too  many  cathedral  closes,  or  is  it  this  unending  English  courtesy,  or  what'  In  any  case,  my  nerves  are  on  edge,  as I realized  in  the  course  of  a  stroll  I  took  this  morning  in  the  High  Street.  Among  the  cars  parked  along  the  curb  was  an  Armstrong  Siddeley  saloon-a  model  Pd  seen  fleetingly  but  never  had  a  chance  to  inspect.  Just  as  I  was  peering  into  the  interior,  shading  my  eyes  with  my  hand,  I  suddenly  had  the  most  extraordinary  sensation  of  being  watched-from  the  inside.  Since  the  car  was  empty,  I  knew  I  must  be  mis-  taken,  yet  all  at  once  a  sinuous  reptilian  shape  unwound  itself  from  the  gear-  shift,  slithered  across  the  front  seat,  and  struck  at  me  through  the  window.  And  now  comes  the  shameful  part,  the  detail  I  can  hardly  bring  myself  to  put  down.  Totally  forgetting  my  Amer-  sham  seizure,  which  should  have  taught  me  the  phenomenon  was  psychic  in  origin,  I  let  forth  a  paralyzing  screech  and  raced  back  to  the  hotel  in  lunatic  fashion,  bowling  over  passersby  like  ninepins.  In  the  five  hours  elapsed  since  then,  happily,  I've  grown  somewhat  calmer  and  have  been  able  to  ingest  a  little  bouillon  and  two  slices  of  [REDACTED]  rusk.  Someone  has  been  pounding  on  my  door  at  intervals  throughout  the  afternoon,  calling  my  name  with  great  urgency,  but  I  don't  propose  to  answer  until  I  feel  my  normal  self.  SrovcH,  Max  18  IT  begins  to  look  as  if  my  holiday,  peaceful  except  for  the  two  jarring  incidents  previously  noted,  may  be  shortened  by  professional  demands.  The  person  knocking  so  insistently  was  the  manageress,  whose  brother-in-law,  a  gamekeeper  named  Sholto,  lodges  on  the  premises.  This  worthy,  evidently,  has  been  stricken  with  repeated  attacks  of  delirium  in  the  past  twenty-four  hours,  and  as  I  had  thoughtlessly  di-  vulged  my  identity  on  arrival,  Mrs.  Grindge  importuned  me  to  have  a  look  at  him.  In  vain  I  protested  that  I  was  not  licensed  to  practice  in  Europe;  tears  mingled  with  prayers  until  I  finally  relented.  On  examination,  the  patient  showed  manifest  signs  of  excite,  ment  aggravated  by  fear.  His  pulse  was  rapid,  the  facial  region  flushed,  and  the  breathing  shallow.  For  the  most  part,  he  was  tremulous  and  disinclined  to  reply  to  questioning,  but  from  time  to  time  uttered  strangled  cries  of  &quot;Look  out!&quot;  and  clawed  at  his  wristsas  if  " b"attempting  to  disentangle  something.  According  to  Mrs.  Grindge,  he  had  twice  made  anguished  references  to  a  doctor's  satchel  as  harboring  a  python.  While  all  evidence  pointed  to  a  classic  delirium  tremens,  his  relative  stated  emphatically  that  he  took  no  more  than  an  occasional  glass  of  port.  I  prescribed  a  sedative  and  ice  pack,  lavaged  the  patient  to  rule  out  the  possibility  of  poison,  and  instructed  Mrs.  Grindge  to  jot  down  any  further  ramblings  that  might  furnish  causative  clues.  How  puzzling  that  the  serpentine  element  should  arise  again,  and  so  soon  after  my  own  misadventures.  I  wish  I  could  rid  myself  of  the  nagging  thought  that  there  is  some  connection.  It  may  be  childish  of  me,and  pure  coincidence  only,  but  it  troubles  me,  damn  it.  SroucH,  May  20  THIS  affair  is  proving  more  com-  plex  than  I  had  supposed.  Sholto  continues  to  be  restless,  exhibiting  un-  abated  symptoms  of  snake  trauma.  After  sustained  appeals  to  search  her  memory,  Mrs.  Grindge  disclosed  that,  prior  to  my  entrance  into  the  case,  a  local  physician  by  the  name  of  Grims-  ditch  had  in  fact  treated  the  patient  for  a  trifling  stomach  upset.  Hoping  to  de-  rive  a  hypothesis  at  least,  I  rang  the  man,  identified  myself,  and  arranged  to  visit  him  this  afternoon.  'There  then  ensued  a  most  exasperating  delay;  Grimsditch  promptly  forgot  my  exist-  ence,  and  when  he  did  materialize  at  his  office,  a  full  two  hours  later,  he  dis-  played  no  recollection  of  our  appoint-  ment.  On  the  whole,  he  struck  me  as  unprepossessing-a  sallow,  fretful  in-  dividual  with  a  permanent  snifflie  and  the  aggrieved  manner  of  one  constantly  imposed  upon.  I  again  presented  my  credentials  and  was  about  to  narrate  the  relevant  circumstances  when  he  suddenly  arose  and  administered  his  medical  bag,  which  reposed  beside  the  desk,  a  savage  kick.  &quot;Settle  down  there!&quot;  he  snapped.  &quot;I've  had  enough  trouble  from  you,  you  bastard.  Now,  then,&quot;  he  said,  resum-  ing  his  seat,  &quot;what  were  you  saying?&quot;  Sensing  myself  in  the  presence  of  one  who  was,  so  to  speak,  a  shade  out  of  the  ordinary,  I  decided  to  use  a  more  roundabout  approach  than  I  had  planned,  and  asked  with  seeming  care-  lessness  whether  there  were  many  ro-  dents  in  the  district.  Practically  none,  he  answered;  he  supposed  the  majority  had  been  devoured  by  snakes.  &quot;Oh?&quot;  I  said  quickly.  &quot;Do  you  have  many  of  those?&quot;  &quot;As  many  as  we  need,&quot;  he  said,  with a  cryptic  smile.  &quot;And  good  fat  fellows,  moreover.  Squeeze  the  breath  out  of  a  chap  before  you  can  say  knife,  they  will.&quot;  Hardly  had  he  spoken  the  words  than  the  bag  by  the  desk  gave  an  un-  mistakable  twitch.  Grimsditch  observed  me  staring  fixedly  at  it  and  queried  what  was  amiss.  I  could  feel  cold  sweat  trickling  down  my  spine,  but  I  was  resolved  not  to  panic.  &quot;I  hope  you  won't  consider  it  per-     -Joun  Haut  Wurrrock  tinacious  of  me,&quot;  I  said,  enunciating  with  difficulty,  &quot;but  surely  you  don't  carry  a  snake  on  your  rounds?&quot;  &quot;What  would  you  suggest  instead-  a  gun?&quot;  he  sneered.  &quot;Let  me  tell  you  something,  my  dear  sir-every  blessed  man,  woman,  and  child  in  the  Chiltern  Hundreds  is  a  barefaced,  unabashed  thief.  Why,  only  the  other  day,  a  pa-  tient  I  attended  at  the  local  hotel,  a  gamekeeper,  stole  this  very  bag-in-  struments,  snake,  and  all.  I  didn't  miss  it  straight  off,  being  a  bit  absent-  minded,  but  when  I  retrieved  it  and  checked  the  contents,  there  wasn't  a  trace  of  the  boa.&quot;  A  harsh  cackle  es-  caped  him.  &quot;Probably  writhing  around  " b"this  moment  in  the  bleeder's  bedroom,  and  serve  him  jolly  well  right.&quot;  Tur  DEopars,  BExHILL-ON-SEA,  May  27  AS nursing  homes  go,  this  is  a  model.  of  efficiency  and  quiet  comfort,  set  in  the  most  pleasant  surroundings  imaginable.  Now  that  my  period  of  bed     rest  has  terminated,  I  have  been  taking  short  walks  on  the  grounds  and  along  the  shingle  without  any  supervision,  and  am  confident  that  by  the  weekend  I  shall  feel  well  enough  to  leave.  The  matron's  assurance  that  nothing  of  an  organic  nature  was  found  in  my  bag-  gage,  and  a  similar  guarantee  from  the  garage,  which,  pursuant  to  my  orders,  has  kept  the  car  in  isolation,  had  aided  my  recovery  materially.  As  yet,  I  haven't  reached  a  decision  on  whether  I  want  to  resume  medical  practice  in  the  States,  but  I  refuse  to  worry  about  it.  After  all,  I'm  still  young,  even  though  my  hair  is  snow-white.  I  won-  der  if  that  tweedy  old  lady  in  the  snack  bar  would  recognize  me  now?  Id  know  Aer  anywhere-blast  her. "