 THE  PIGEON  LARA  sat  in  a  chrome-and-plastic  C  chair  on  her  porch  in  a  small  New  [REDACTED]  town.  All  the  lights  were  out  in  the  house.  She  liked  it  that  way.  With  her  five  children  married  and  gone,  she  felt  at  peace  in  the  dark.  Moths  were  flying  around  the  street  light,  and  fireflies  were  pul-  sating  in  the  dark  lot  of  wild  growth  and  trees  next  to  the  house.  Nothing  looked  clear.  She  was  dreaming  and  listening  to  the  crickets.  A  car  came  racing  down  the  hill,  its  headlights  up  bright,  lighting  the  tops  of  maple  trees.  It  crackled  on  the  sandy  macadam  road  as  it  slowed  in  front  of  the  house.  Clara  stood  up  in  the  dark-  ness  of  the  porch,  ready  to  fly  into  the  house.  She  was  barefoot.  She  pushed  a  rough  braid  of  dull  gray  hair  over  her  shoulder,  and  tried  to  smooth  her  un-  ironed  dress.  She  fingered  a  string  of  whitebeads  that  dangled  over  the  front  of  her  old  cardigan.  Squinting,  she  rec-  ognized  the  car;  it  belonged  to  Paolo,  her  youngest  son.  'The  front  door  opened  on  the  passenger  side.  A  heavy-  sct  man  got  out.  It  was  him-her  husband,  Dominic.  He  spoke  a  few  words  and  shut  the  door.  The  car  pulled  away  skidding.  Perhaps  if  she  were  very  still,  he  would  not  notice  her.  He  had  threat-  ened  yesterday,  when  she  had  taken  the  pigeon  upstairs,  and  again  this  morning,  to  take  the  bird  away  from  her.  She  had  been  foolish  to  tell  him  about  it.  Maybe  he  would  think  she  was  asleep  and  go  straight  past  the  porch  to  the  back  door  and  in  to  bed.  But  no.  Ah,  the  nuisance.  He  stopped  at  the  other  side  of  the  porch  rail.  He     was  still  quite  strong,  his  hair  was  white,  his  face  almost  black  with  suntan  from  working  in  his  vegetable  garden  out  back.  She  stood  flat  against  the  wall  of  the  house,  hanging  on  to  her  beads.  &quot;Still  up?&quot;  he  asked  inItalian.  They  always  spoke  in  their  native  language.  His  voice,  as  always,  was  loud.  &quot;It's  after  eleven.&quot;  Her  heart  was  beating  fast.  She  could  hardly  see  him;  he  looked  like  a  white  shirt  and  a  pile  of  white  silk  hair  floating  by  themselves  in  the  dark.  He  got  right  to  the  point.  He  said,  &quot;Paolo  says  you  can't  keep  it.  He  says  it's  not  healthy.  He  says  we  got  to  let  it  go  or  else  stick  it  in  a  cage  in  back  of  the  garage,  but  then  we'll  have  plenty  of  troubles  with  the  zoning  laws  and  the  cops  when  the  neighbors  find  out.  He  says  it's  best  if  we  get  rid  of  it  anyway-it  will  make  you  sick.&quot;  Dominic  laughed,  and  Clara  could  see  his  big  teeth.  He  said,  &quot;Paolo  says  you  are  quite  a  character,  catching  a  pigeon.&quot;  Clara  spoke  rapidly.  &quot;It  was  no  trouble.  I  was  hanging  a  towel  on  the  line  and  the  pigeon  flew  down  from  the  sky  and  walked  up  to  me,  and  I  bent  over  and  picked  him  up.  He  liked  me.  I  wanted  him,  I  took  him  to  my  room.  So  what  of  that?&quot;  Dominic  said,  &quot;Well,  we  got  to  let  it  go-right  now.  It'll  only  get  you  sick  up  in  that  closed,  hot  room.&quot;  He  went  along  the  side  of  the  house,  and  in  through  the  back  door.  She  heard  him  bump  against  the  table  in  the  kitchen--  the  clumsy  old  fool-and  she  heard  the  light  switch  goon  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs.  Then  he  was  climbing  them     dULY  16,  19  66  slowly,  as  if  he  didn't  want  to  go  up,  or  was  tired.  She  stood  on  the  porch  for  a  moment  and  thought,  Why  didn't  my  baby-  my  Paolo-come  in,  or  wave,  or  say  hello?  Then  she  went  into  the  house  through  the  front  screen  door.  It  slammed  behind  her.  She  padded  through  the  dark  living  room  and  kitch-  en  and  went  upstairs.  Her  bedroom  was  at  the  top  of  the  landing,  directly  above  her  husband's  room.  The  door  was  open,  and  the  light  was  on.  It  was  more  powerful  than  the  hall  light,  and  it  made  a  hard  glare.  She  could  hear  a  scraping  and  clucking  sound  coming  from  the  room.  Clara  stood  in  the  doorway.  The  veins  in  her  right  leg  hurt,  and  she  held  the  heel  of  that  foot  up  off  the  floor  a  little.  Dominic  was  crouched  down,  his  face  almost  touching  the  floor.  Ah,  the  buffoon.  Clara  wanted  to  laugh,  but  he  would  have  heard  her.  Moving  his  short,  heavy  arms,  he  was  scraping  a  broom  under  the  bed.  He  clucked  with  his  tongue  and  made  a  sucking  noise  with  his  lips.  She  thought,  What  does  he  think  he  is  calling-a  dog?  &quot;Some  of  his  smaller  feathers  are  fall-  ing  out,&quot;  she  said.  There  was  a  whirring  and  a  scram-  bling  noise  under  the  bed,  and  Dominic  slid  the  broom  swiftly  across  the  floor.  &quot;Some  of  his  smaller  feathers  are  falling  out.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  heard  you.  It's  sick.&quot;  He  held  up  one  tough  palm,  looked  up  at  her,  frowning,  and  said,  &quot;It  was  stand-  ing  away  far  over  in  the  corner,  all  puffed  up.  And  it  hasn't  even  touched  this  bread  you  have  here.&quot;  He  turned  his  mouth  down  and  said,  &quot;AA,  mam-  ma  mia.&quot;  He  added  some  light  curse  words.  His  black  eyes  flashed.  He  looked  un-  der  the  bed,  grunting,  and  again  he  scraped  the  broom  in  an  arc.  &quot;Stupid.  Foolish  thing,&quot;  he  said,  and  pulled  himself  upon  his  knees.  He  pushed  on  his  back  with  one  hand  and  said,  &quot;Oh.&quot;  The  blood  was  heavy  in  his  face,  and  the  wrinkles  in  his  fore-  head  were  deep  and  sweaty.  Clara  stood  in  si-  lence.  She  shut  her  eyes  and  the  moment  shift-  ed.  She  was  twelve  years  old.  She  thought,  When  Mama  goes  down  to  the  well  for  THE  NEW  YORKER  water,  then  I'll  sneak  it  some  corn.  Dominic  turned  the  broom  around,  got  down,  pushed  it  once  more,  and  swept  the  bird  out.  &quot;There!&quot;  he  said.  Flapping  by,  the  bird  stepped  in  a  cup  of  water  that  had  been  set  down  by  one  of  the  legs  of  the  headboard.  Domi-  nic  let  the  broom  fall  to  the  floor  with  a  loud  smack,  and  he  swung  forward.  &quot;Got  you,&quot;  he  said,  wrapping  his  big  hands  around  the  bird.It  struggled.  He  held  it  tight  and  grinned.  It  tried  to  flap,  and  shuddered,  moving  its  head  in  jerking  motions.  Then  it  was  still  fora  minute.  Clara  bent  herhead  in  pity,  staring  at  the  pigeon.  It  was  gray,  with  one  of  its  big  red  claws  sticking  out  from  under  Dominic's  hands.  Around  the  throat,  it  was  shining  blue  and  cerise  and  silver,  and  it  had  a  deep-blue  head.  Its  eye  was  a  tiny  copper  disk  within  a  clear  globe,  with  a  black,  wild-staring  spot  in  the  center.  Clara  put  her  hands  together  over  her  face.  &quot;It's  beautiful,  all  right,&quot;  Dominic  said.  He  groaned  as  he  got  to  his  feet.  Clara  uncovered  her  face.  She  saw  the  veins  beating  at  herhusband's  tem-  ple.  The  pigeon  struggled  once  more,  with  its  claw  splayed,  and  almost  got  away.  Dominic  moved  out  into  the  hall.  Talking  softly  to  the  bird,  he  clomped  down  the  stairs  inhis  thick  shoes  and  baggy  black  pants.  Clara  fol-  lowed.  He  went  out  the  front  door,  holding  the  bird  high  before  him.  The  door  banged.  Clara  went  through,  and  it  banged  again.  Dominic  went  down  the  porch  steps,  and  Clara  walked  close  in  procession  behind  him,  her  arms  stretched  out,  her  hands  together,  mocking  him.  She  moved  with  a  slight  lurch,  her  white  beads  swinging  heavily,  her  braid  flopping  at  her  back.  How  I  hateyou,  you  vile  one,  she  thought.  Immediately,  feeling  guilty  and  afraid,  she  put  her  hand  to  her  mouth.  Dominic  lumbered  through  the  lot  next  to  the  house;  his  shoes  swished  in  the  dry  grass.  Surrounded  by  the  noise  of  crickets  that  ceased  and  started  hesitantly,  Clara  walked  behind  her  husband  among  the  trees  to  the  far  end  of  the  lot.  Branches  and  twigs  bent  and  snapped.  Fireflies  sparked  in  clusters.  Remembering  that  other  bird,  Clara  thought,  I  must  let  it  go  before  Mama  kills  it  for  supper.  She  smelled  strong,  wild  honeysuckle,  and  it  nearly  made  her  faint.  Under  shadowy  leaves,  Dominic  stopped  and  released  the  pigeon.  It  flopped  to  the  ground.  Dominic  bent  down,  cursing,  and  felt  in  the  weeds  33       until  he  found  it.  This  time,  he  threw  the  bird  up  in  the  air.  &quot;Go!&quot;  he  com-  manded,  and  it  flapped  and  floated  down,  disappearing  among  the  thickets.  Clara  wanted  to  cry.  The  pigeon.  Her  secret  pet,  cooing  under  a  crude  cupboard  in  the  family  hovel  of  her  childhood  village  near  Naples.  &quot;That's  [REDACTED];  Dominic  said,  brushing  his  hands  together.  &quot;Birds  carry  dis-  eases.  It  would  have  made  you  sick.&quot;  He  put  his  arm  around  his  wife's  shoul-  ders,  and  they  stood  hidden  together  for  a  moment.  Even  in  old  age  she  was  taller  than  he,  and  that  fact  flashed  into  her  mind  now.  She  was  conscious  ofthe  appearance  they  must  always  have  made  together.  She  laughed  gut-  turally.  He  said,  &quot;That's  the  way,&quot;  and  patted  her  back.  They  walked  through  the  heavy  grass  in  silence,  back  to  the  house.  ITH  her  head  lowered,  Clara  followed  Dominic  upstairs  again.  He  got  the  broom  and,  breathing  heavy-  ily,  swept  up,  making  a  pile  ofdry,  hard,  white  bread  and  feathers.  &quot;Get  the  dustpan,&quot;  he  said.  She  went  down,  got  it,  and  came  back.  Climbing  the  stairs  slowly,  she  thought,  Cruel,  cruel.  She  twisted  the  pigeon's  neck  behind  the  village  hut.  &quot;They  won't  get  you  [REDACTED];  she  said.  She  stroked  the  dead  bird  and  wept.  Quickly,  under  the  hot  sun,  she  dug  a  hole  in  the  stony  earth  and  buried  the  bird  behind  the  outhouse.  No  one  54  &quot;He  missed.  Now  if's  the  other  one's  turn.&quot;  will  ever  know,  she  thought  as  she  reached  the  top  of  the  stairs,  cradling  the  red  metal  dustpan  in  her  arms.  She  went  into  her  room  and  handed  it  to  Dominic  without  looking  at  him.  He  swept  up  the  debris.  &quot;Look,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;the  poor  thing  never  ate  a  crumb.  It  would  have  perished.&quot;  &quot;He  will  perish  in  the  darkness,&quot;  Clara  said,  closing  her  wet  eyes,  shak-  ing  her  head.  She  felt  exhausted.  &quot;No.  It's  got  a  better  chance  out-  side.&quot;  &quot;A  better  chance,&quot;  Clara  said.  Her  husband  took  the  cup  of  water  into  the  bathroom  across  the  hall  and  emptied  it.  &quot;You  must  wash  this  cup  in  boiling  water,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;In  boiling  water,&quot;  she  repeated.  He  went  to  her  room,  picked  up  the  full  dustpan  and  the  broom,  and  started  slowly  down  the  stairs.  She  began  to  follow.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said,  looking  up.  His  face  was  black  and  scowling  in  the  dim  light     of  the  stairwell.  Big  drops  of  sweat  shone  on  his  forehead.  &quot;You  go  to  bed  now.  It's  late.  And  don't  bring  no  more  goddam  animals  in  the  house.&quot;  Then  after  a  pause  he  said  softly,  &quot;You  understand,  eh?&quot;  She  whimpered.  He  continued  down  the  stairs.  &quot;I'm  going  to  bed  myself,&quot;  he  said  to  the  bottom  step.  &quot;Don't  worry.  It'll  be  all  right  out  there.&quot;  He  turned  his  face  up  to  her  and  said  good  night.  &quot;Why  didn't  Paolo  come  in  to  see  me?&quot;  Clara  cried  out.  &quot;He  had  to  go  pick  up  his  wife  from  the  bingo.  Why  do  you  bother  me?&quot;  She  put  her  hand  over  her  mouth,  repressing  another  whimper,  trying  to  have  some  dignity.  &quot;Go  to  bed  [REDACTED];  Dominic  said.  &quot;Tomorrow  night,  Paolo  will  come.  Or  Mary  or  Tommy  or  somebody,  and  they  will  take  you  for  a  ride  and  get  you  some  ice  [REDACTED];  Tomorrow  night,  she  thought,  and  shook  her  head.  She  went  to  her  room  and  undressed.  She  put  on  a  pink,  flowered  nightgown  and  undid  the  braid  of  hair.  She  heard  Dominic  knocking  the  dust-  pan  against  the  trash  can  in  the  back  hall.  She  waited,  her  thin  lips  hanging  open.  The  light  switch  snapped  off  in  the  kitchen.  He  shuffled  through  and  shut  off  the  light  at  the  bottom  of  the  stairs.  The  hall  went  black.  A  relief.  Below,  Dominic  muttered,  &quot;It  would  have  croaked  in  there.&quot;  She  heard  a  click  as  he  turned  the  ceiling  light  on  in  his  room.  She  sat  on  her  bed  and  combed  out  her  hair  with  a  big  comb.  She  felt  lighter.  He  would  lie  there  now  on  the  double  bed  that  had  been  theirs,  and  read  the  Italian  paper  and  smoke  one  of  his  crooked  little  black  cigars.  Then  he  would  cough  for  a  while.  Before  going  to  sleep,  he  might  go  to  the  kitchen  for  some  wine.  Maybe  his  light  would  still  be  on  in  the  morning-  maybe  not.  These  days,  nothing  was  sure.  What  ever  had  been?  That  he  had  loved  her  with  the  light  on  and  with  the  light  off,  with  and  without  cigar  and  wine  breath.  When?  Oh,  when  had  that  been?  Trembling,  she  putout  the  light,  crossed  herself,  and  lay  down  on  the  bed.  At  once,  her  legs  began  to  ache  and  throb.  After  a  long  time,  she  could  see  in  the  room.  Shadows  of  leaves  moved  on  one  wall.  The  crickets  sang  outside.  Downstairs,  Dominic  began  coughing.  Clara  smiled,  dreaming  herself  to-  ward  sleep.  Someday,  she  would  get  away  from  this  dirty  hovel.  She  would  marry.  She  would  love  her  husband,  and  he  would  love  her.  And  no  one  would  ever  find  out.  After  all,  they  would  bave  killed  and  eaten  him.  Or  he  would  have  perished,  that  beautiful  bird,  in  darkness. 