 b"EARLY  in  1944,  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],   a  dark,  immaculate  young  man  called  Peter  Hidalgo  went  so-  berly  and  efficiently  through  the  rounds  of  his  first  weeks  in  the  Army  Air  Forces  Officers  Candidate  School  while  conducting  a  silent  monologue  that  seldom  paused.  It  did  not  in  the  least  interfere  with  his  many  dutiese-with  standing  guard  at  night  above  waves  breaking  on  packed  sand,  with  march-  ing  in  formation  to  and  from  his  classes  or  his  mess  hall  shouting  brash  new  Air  Force  words  to  venerable  tunes.  Through  drill,  through  Sunday-after-  noon  parades  in  spongy  heat  and  clouds  of  mosquitoes,  through  the  limp  mo-  ments  before  he  slept  on  his  rigid  cot  in  his  antiseptic  room,  the  monologue  ran  on.  He  was  talking  to  his  wife,  com-  posing  a  kind  of  wandering  letter,  repe-  titious  and  sometimes  garbled,  that  he  could  not  stop.  Janice  had  always  wanted  to  devour  all  there  was  to  know  about  him,  down  to  the  last  common-  placesof  any  day,  and  so,  now  that  she  was  dead,  he  kept  on  telling  her  about  these.  And  in  his  mind,  hazily,  his  words  surrounded  her,  flowed  over  her,  and  obscured  her.  Once,  a  year  and  a  half  before,  he  had  told  her  in  absolute  detail  the  theory,  construction,  and  function  of  vacuum  tubes.  At  the  time,  he  was  in  training  to  become  a  radio  operator,  and  when  she  came  to  visit  him  he  talked  at  first  as  he  was  talking  now,  about  things  a  little  to  the  side  of  what  consumed  him.  He  explained,  passion-  ately,  thermionic  emission,  cathodes,  anodes,  and  grid  bias.  He  drew  her  a  schematic  diagram  of  a  pentagrid,  and  she,  slight  and  blond,  gratefully  made  clear  that  though  she  could  not  wholly  grasp  the  brilliant  device  she  loved  him,  at  least  in  part,  because  he  did.  Now,  on  the  beaches  or  on  night  exer-  cises  along  dark  roads,  he  sometimes  spoke  to  her  directly,  his  lips  moving  without  sound.  But,  as  a  rule,  he  simply  told  her  in  his  head  about  the  drilling  and  saluting  and  all  the  schoolboy  war  of  O.C.S.  He  had  previously  been  a  radio  operator  flying  over  the  43616e616461Atlantic,  the  Mediterranean,  and  Af-  rica.  It  amazed  him  that  he  had  been  any  such  thing,  which  seemed  unlike  him,  and  he  often  thought  that  she,  too,  would  have  been  astonished,  and  proud,  if  she  could  have  seen  him  at  it.  He  told  her,  also,  about  the  other  men  in  his  squadron,  most  of  whom  had  come  straight  from  basic  training.  He  knew  that,  friendly  as  they  were,  they  tended  to  stand  back  from  him,  and  he  laid  this  by  and  large  to  his  superior  military  history,  discounting  more  complex  reasons.  For  their  part,  they  knew  only  a  little  about  him-  that  he  had  combat-crew  wings  and,  strangely,  did  not  wear  them;  that  he  spoke  in  no  special  accent  but-  on  a  guess-was  Mexican;  that  he  was  slender,  quiet,  polite,  remote;  and  that-most  peculiar  of  all  to  them-  he  had  noframed  photograph  of  his  wife  propped  on  his  dresser.  They  knew  that  she  had  died  just  before  he  came  to  O.C.S.,  and  there  were  many  ru-  mors:  she  had  been  trapped  in  a  burning  house;  she  was  a  suicide  by  drown-  ing,  because  her  parents  opposed  her  marriage;  and  so  on.  And  most  of  the  men  felt  uneasy  when  they  were  with  him,  as  if  he  ought  not  to  be  there-  as  if  a  man  in  such  mourning  should  go  back  and  be  a  civilian,  should  be  allowed  to  start  his  war  over  again,  later.  Actually,  Janice  had  been  killed  in  an  automobile  collision  while  visit-  ing  her  parents  in  [REDACTED].  Nearly  ten  years  before,  a  child-welfare  group  had  sent  Peter  there-a  bright  orphan  from  [REDACTED]-to  stay  with  a  Quaker  fami-  ly,  help  out  around  the  house,  and  go  to  school,  and  he  now  thought  that  hav-  ing  been  Pedro  when  young  was  as  unlike  him  as  being  at  war.  He  left  off  his  wings  because  wearing  them  among  his  curious  but  respectful  companions  seemed  ostentatious.  And  Janice's  par-  ents  had  indeed  deplored  the  mar-  riage-deplored  it,  and  contrived  to  suggest  that  it  did  not  exist  at  all,  and  so,  sometimes,  his  monologue  turned  to  them,  trying  to  make  them  see  that  it  had  been  real.  Still,  they  were  al-  ways  civil  when  he  saw  them.  They  had  been  civil  to  him  at  her  funeral.  Now  and  then-not  often-the  let-  ter  touched  glancingly  on  times  be-  fore  the  marriage.  But  early  matters  were  likely  to  be  perilous  to  recall.  High  school  was  perilous-the  football  games  he  and  Janice  had  gone  to  and  the  baseball  games  he  had  pitched.  Also  their  friends,  swarming  noisily  in  cars  and  porch  swings  on  summer  evenings,  and  the  large  family  he  had  happily  been  part  of  and  desultorily  worked  for  in  those  years.  For  all  recollections  pointed,  of  course,  toward  his  marriage,  and  whenever  the  long  letter  strayed  too  near  the  facts  of  it,  the  current  of  words  was  broken  instantly,  totally,  leaving  him  bleak  and  alone.  Yet  he  wanted  to-tried  to-think  about  his  life  with  Janice,  or  so  he  believed.  It  had  been  close,  if  brief.  By  the  time  Peter  came  [REDACTED],  two  years  after  high  school,  they  were  in  love.  To  his  astonishment  and  delight,  she  simply  picked  up  and  followed  him,  and  they  got  married.  But  now  he  did  not  dare  to  let  himself  see  her  again  running  up  the  scuffed  and  shadowy  ramp  from  the  train  that  had  brought  her.  They  had  lived  in  a  small  apartment  in  New  York,  Peter  working,  and  going  to  school  at  night.  Janice,  dedicated  to  all  forms  of  self-improvement,  studied  along  with  him.  And  in  the  humid  [REDACTED]  evenings,  he  could  by  no  means  remind  himself  of  a  winter  Sunday  they  once  spent  planning  a  future  as  orthodox  as  they  could  make  it-law  " b"degree,  house,  three  children,  a  health-  ful  old  age-while  snow  fell  all  day  (approving,  confirming)  on  the  roofs  and  chimney  pots  outside  their  window.  Once,  Janice  was  sure  that  she  was  pregnant,  and  all  plans  hung  in  the  air;  in  the  blueprint,  children  came  later.  And  at  night,  when  the  lights  of  passing  cars  ran  backward  across  the  ceiling,  she  concluded  with  sorrow  that  the  marriage  was  now  unjust  to  Peter,  who  was  at  the  beginning  of  his  career-that  she  had  been  as  headlong  and  as  unwise  as  her  parents  said.  And  Peter,  in  the  following  silence  and  with  a  stone  in  his  stomach,  lay  wondering  who  he  was,  other  than  a  Mexican  boy  from  an  orphanage  in  [REDACTED].  He  knew  that  Janice's  parents,  who  took  care  never  to  mention  his  origins,  had  them  in  mind  when  they  wrote  about  haste  and  folly,  and  it  did  not  occur  to  him  to  blame  them.  Then  Janice  dis-  covered  that  she  was  not  pregnant,  and  the  planning  proceeded  triumphantly.  But  now,  in  counterfeit  ambush  along-  side  what  had  been  a  golf  course,  Peter  could  not  at  all  approach  the  memory  of  Janice,  her  skin  warm  after  love,  lying  against  him  in  the  bedroom  that  was  never  quite  dark,  filling  in  all  the  remaining  chinks  of  their  future.  The  monologue  ran  on,  keeping  her  safe,  the  recipient  of  a  letter.  Semi-  automatic  rifles  cracked  on  the  range;  Peter  held  a  marksman's  rating.  The  squadrons  prowled  the  nearby  fields  and  woods  deployed  as  skirmishers,  or  cautiously  sniffed  small  quantities  of  poison  gas  for  recognition.  Sometimes,  ina  free  half  hour,  he  could  sit  in  a    little  park  behind  the  library,  where  recorded  semi-classics  were  broadcast  in  the  late  afternoon.  Once,  she  all  but  visited  him  there.  A  quick  downpour  sent  him  running  to  shelter  under  a  tree.  Only  occasional  drops  got  through  to  where  he  was  standing.  And  for  a  few  minutes,  while  steam  from  the  baked  earth  hid  the  library  and  its  hibiscus  border,  and  water  fell  in  a  curtain  around  his  enclosure,  shutting  out  all  sounds  but  its  own,  he  felt  a  marvellous  quiet,  like  an  absence  from  the  world.  No  words  ran  in  his  head.  Then  the  rain  stopped  and  the  sun  slanted  across  the  glistening  library  roof  and  came  in  through  the  leaves.  A  puff  of  breeze  scattered  a  few  bright  drops  on  and  around  him,  and  suddenly  she  was  there.  She  was  too  close  to  be  the  recipient  of  a  letter.  He  could  smell  her  hair.  She  was  soaked  and  laughing.  Drops  fell  from  her.  And  that  was  all.  He  bent  over  a  second,  his  arms  across  his  middle,  and  thenhe  left  the  park,  walking  in  the  brisk  cadence  required  of  him  as  a  prospective  officer.  T  had  been  too  real;  her  presence  had  been  too  palpable.  He  remem-  bered  another  visit  she  had  paid  him.  He  wondered  if  she  had  come  in  fact,  then  or  now,  but  he  did  not  believe  she  could.  He  was  only  playing  tricks  on  himself,  and  he  felt  he  hadno  right  to.  Other  queer  matters  were  troubling  him-a  recent  burst  of  unaccountable  rage;  the  way  he  shut  himself  off  from  the  other  men.  The  very  fact  of  the  monologue  itself  made  him  wonder  if  his  mind  could  be  unstrung.  He  did  not  think  it  likely,  but  he  was  not  sure,  and  he  had  to  keep  steady  for  her  sake.  He  owed  her  an  officer's  standing,  off-  setting  his  cloudy  birth.  So,  march-  ing  alone  under  clattering  palm  trees,  saluting  when  needful,  hopping  over  puddles,  he  decided  to  do  a  thing  he  would  endure  only  for  her;  he  decided  that  heshould  ask  the  help  of  a  chap-  lain.  And  then  the  words  in  his  head  began  again,  addressed  this  time  to  her  father,  explaining,  apologizing.  Unlike  the  spill  of  words  Peter  gave  to  Janice,  these  were  chosenwith  care,  rehearsed  as  if  to  be  repeated  later,  as  indeed  for  the  most  part  they  would  be,  to  the  chaplain.  For  Peter  was  trying  to  piece  together  some  incidents  that  had  baffled  or  shocked  him,  beginning  just  after  Janice's  funeral.  Of  that  ceremony,  he  remembered,  or  let  him-  self  remember,  very  little.  In  a  blurred  way,  he  had  thought  it  insufficient.  People  were  silent  and  withdrawn.  Blank.  They  wanted  him  not  to  look  at  Janice,  and  he  was  too  frozen  to  insist,  or  even  to  recognize  why  it  was  best  that  no  one  should.  But  though  he  dimly  felt  entitledto  his  own  numbness,  he  was  also  deeply  concerned  that  there  should  be  so  few  open  tears  for  her.  The  service,  on  a  November  after-  noon,  was  simple.  The  Neals,  her  parents,  arranged  it.  Her  body  was  cremated.  He  had  consented,  but  it  meant  that  there  would  be  no  grave  to  visit.  In  some  echo  of  his  past,  he  felt  that  this  was  as  wrong  as  the  absence  of  weeping.  After  the  final  short  prayer  in  the  crematory  chapel,  Mrs.  Neal  kissed  his  cheek  and  walked  away  slowly,  " b"tugging  her  gloves  as  if  she  wanted  to  tear  them,  and  Mr.  Neal  shook  hands  formally  and  silently,  looking  at  Peter  with  what  he  presently  recalled  as  great  compassion.  Neither  asked  his  plans,  but  of  course  they  had  no  need  to;  they  knew  he  was  on  his  way  to  O.C.S.  He  was  staying  in  a  hotel.  He  had  taken  only  a  brief  leave,  having  nowhere  to  spend  a  longer  one.  The  Quaker  family  had  gone  to  live  in  [REDACTED].  The  Neals  had  moved  from  their  suburban  house  into  a  small  city  apart-  ment,  and  though  they  courteously  in-  vited  him  to  stop  there,  he  did  not  want  to.  He  had  decided  that  he  did  not  want  to  intrude.  Then  the  first  of  the  incidents  took  place.  A  girl  named  Irene,  whom  Peter  and  Janice  had  known  in  school,  drove  him  to  the  service,  and  afterward  she  took  him  to  her  family's  house  and  gave  him  a  drink.  They  sat  a  long  time  in  silence.  She  turned  the  radio  on,  then  turned  it  off  and  asked  what  an  air-  plane  radio  was  like,  and  Peter  began  to  explain  the  design  of  vacuum  tubes.  He  stopped,  embarrassed,  feeling  cer-  tain  that  he  had  told  her  all  that  be-  fore.  Yet  he  could  not  have.  He  was  tired  and  confused.  She  was  sitting  the  way  Janice  did,  burrowedbackward  into  a  corner  of  a  sofa,  light  hair  shoulder  length  and  curled  at  the  ends,  one  hand  on  her  cheek,  and  he  found  there  was  nothing  he  wanted  so  much  as  to  describe  for  her  the  mountains  around  Goose  Bay  and  the  sight  of  icebergs  from  the  air.  The  words  came  tumbling.  They  would  not  stop.  He  went  on  to  picture  for  her  the  approach  to  the  airfield  in  Greenland  up  a  grim  and  dangerous  fjord,  and  Irene  turned  quite  literally  into  Janice  before  his  eyes.  He  tried  to  jar  himself  loose  from  the  spurious  vision.  A  couple  of  times,  he  shook  his  head,  and  she  looked  po-  litely  quizzical,  but  still  it  was  Janice  who  looked  so.  Her  features  swam,  then  grew  firm  again,  but  there  was  no  doubt  at  all  who  was  listening  to  him,  and  soon  he  no  longer  bothered  to  question  it.  He  raced  through  all  he  had  seen  and  done  since  he  had  last  laid  eyes  on  her,  eighteen  months  be-  fore.  She  listened.  She  never  spoke.  The  windows  of  the  room  faced  a  pale-gold  and  purple  sunset.  It  faded.  The  room  grew  dark.  Empty  at  last,  he  shook  his  head  again  and  waved  an  apologetic  kiss  in  her  direction-as  he  often  did  when  he  thought  he  had  talked  too  much-and  now  that  he  could  not  see  her  anymore,  he  had  no  choice  but  to  know  that  she  had  been  Irene  all  along.  Later  that  evening,  a  disturbing  thing  of  a  different  sort  occurred.  In  his  room,  packing,  he  remembered  Janice  JUNE  18,  1966  sitting  in  a  sofa  corner  in  their  apartment,  crying  quietly,  yearning  for  a  glimpse  of  home  and  yet  un-  willing  to  go  there  because  he  could  not,  or  would  not,  go  with  her.  The  Neals  had  never  said  he  would  not  be  welcome;  they  simply  had  never  pretended  that  he  would  be.  So  Janice  had  waited  to  visit  them  until  he  was  in  the  Air  Force.  Then  she  had,  understandably,  gone  often.  And  now,  as  he  started  for  the  airport  and  [REDACTED],  a  strong  sense  of  re-  lief  that  would  not  be  denied  rose  in  himand  shocked  him.  For  the  Neals  would  no  longer  loom  day  and  night-  reproachful,  accusing-in  the  near  distance.  He  need  no  longer  be  considered-con-  sider  himself-an  intruder  or  a  robber.  But  his  face  burned  and  even  his  hands  and  feet  tingled  with  shame  that  such  an  idea  should  enter  his  head  on  sucha  night.  Making  amends  at  once,  he  told  him-  self  that  he  was  all  they  had  left  of  Janice,  and  that,  somehow,  someday,  for  her  sake,  they  must  be  led  to  understand  at  last  that  the  marriage  had  been  right.  All  this  was  part  of  what-on  the  hot,  wet  street-he  believed  he  had  better  tell  the  chaplain.  But  first  he  spelled  it  out  in  conciliatory  words  for  Mr.  Neal,  with  whom,  in  the  old  growing-up,  baseball-playing  days,  he  had  felt  warm  and  easy.  THE  chaplain  was  busy.  Men  per-  sisted  in  coming  to  him  with  mat-  ters  that  could  as  well  be  taken  to  the  medics.  A  psychiatrist  was  on  duty  over  there.  'The  chaplain  had  talked  to  the  Mexican  boy  before,  during  the  boy's  first  week  at  the  school,  hoping  to  help  him  in  his  bereavement,  and  wanting  to  make  sure-again,  the  medics'  area-that  he  was  emotionally  up  to  taking  on  O.C.S.  He  had  seemed  shy  and  solemn,  but  fully  in  control.  His  subsequent  record  was  good.  But  now  for  half  an  hour  he  had  been  sitting  across  the  metal  desk  in  the  chaplain's  neat  cubicle,  talking,  talk-  ing.  About  some  fit  of  wild  anger  against  his  roommate,  brought  about  by  a  clogged  washbowl,  and  how  such  conduct  could  have  cost  him  his  com-  mission;  about  hallucinations;  about  his  wife's  parents,  and  how  disgraceful  it  had  been  to  feel  freed  of  them  by  her  death.  The  dark  eyes  in  the  olive  face  " b"were  full  of  urgency.  The  chaplain,  though  busy,  was  touched.  'The  boy  was  young  and  his  wife  had  died.  He  was  an  orphan  as  well  as  bereaved.  One  should  be  able  to  say  something  to  him-send  him  along  with  something  more  than  the  medics  would,  &quot;'They're  very  fine  people,  [REDACTED];  the  boy  was  saying.  &quot;'They  were  very  nice  to  me,  way  back.  They  used  to  laugh  and  kid.  I  hung  around  their  house  all  the  time  on  account  of  Janice,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Neal  were  like  my  friends.  I  ought  not  to  feel  the  way  I  told  you  I  did.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  get  in  touch,  then,  Mr.  Hidalgo?&quot;  the  chaplain  said,  in-  spired.  &quot;They're  your  relatives.  You're  their  son-in-law.  You  graduate  in-  what?  -six  weeks?  You'll  have  a  leave  before  you're  posted.  Go  on  out  and  see  them.  Do  you  and  them  good,  I  guarantee.&quot;  He  stood  up.  And  Peter  rose  also  and  thanked  him  and  left  with  the  feeling  that  the  chaplain  had  miracu-  lously  said  the  very  words  that-not  knowing  it-he  had  come  to  hear.  HE  went,  marching  as  always,  to  the  many-terraced  white  hotel  in  which  his  squadron  was  quartered,  and  up  to  his  room.  He  was  not  allowed  to  close  the  door,  so  he  shut  himself  in  the  bathroom,  first  taking  from  his  suitcase  a  copy  of  a  note  he  had  writ-  ten  the  Neals  after  the  funeral  (&quot;I  would  like  to  thank  you  most  kindly  for  all  you  have  done.  .  .  .&quot;),  and  Mrs.  Neal's  reply:  &quot;Dear  Peter-  &quot;You  must  understand  that  itis  dif-  ficult  for  me  to  write  to  you  under  the  circumstances.  ...&quot;  That  would  be  natural.  She  was  grieving.  She  could  not  trust  herself.  &quot;.  .  and  grateful  for  your  kind  note.&quot;  He  read  his  note  over,  though  he  knew  it  by  heart.  He  had  struggled  to  make  it  right,  but  now  it  seemed  formal,  stilted.  He  wished  it  had  been  warmer.  He  remembered  what  he  had  said  to  the  chaplain  about  the  warmth  of  the  old  days.  But  he  knew  that  the  Neals  themselves  held  their  deeper  feelings  back-believed  in  always  do-  ing  so.  No  tears,  or  few.  *.  .  .  joins  me  in  wishing  you  all  success  in  winning  your  commission.&quot;  Certainly,  if  he  did  go  to  see  them,  he  must  not  fail  to  have  won  it.  The  chaplain  had  said  the  right  words,  but  he  had  not  said  them  all.  For  now  it  occurred  to  Peter  that  he  must  go  be-  cause  Janice  wanted  him  to.  The  visit  might  not  be  easy-might  be  no  more  than  a  call-but  the  ease  and  warmth  could  always  come  back  later.  *.  ._.  and  a  safe  return,  when  the  time  comes,  to  civilian  life.  Harriett  B.  Neal.&quot;  For  he  would  no  longer  be  an  inter-  loper.  The  fact  was  stark  and  simple,  and  he  saw  clearly  that  knowing  it  did  not  have  to  shame  him.  It  only  meant  that  nothing  stood  between  him  and  them.  A  rootless  boy  was  no  longer  keeping  their  daughter  from  them.  He  would  go,  for  Janice,  to  her  people,  who  were  also  his.  And  when  he  went,  he  would  be-the  wry  joke  ran-an  officer  and  a  gentleman  by  Act  of  Con-  gress.  It  was  only  partly  a  joke.  He  went  out  and  stood  for  a  few  minutes  beside  his  window.  The  street  below  was  sunny.  Trees  were  dark  green  against  the  white  buildings  all  around.  A  file  of  men  in  spotless  khakis  came  past  singing,  marching  in  perfect  time,  heads  up,  chests  out,  chins  in,  looking  as  proud  as  they  were  daily  admonished  to  look,  and  for  the  first  time  Peter  felt  proud  that  he  belonged  among  them.  HE  pride  remained  and  grew-  his  pride  and  Janice's.  The  long  letter  to  her  dwindled.  There  was  less  need  for  it  now;  she  was  always  close  by.  Sometimes  she  seemed  to  be  back  ofa  half-shuttered  window,  sometimes     39  in  a  passing  car.  Then  the  squadron  went  on  a  three-week  bivouac,  and  she  hovered  in  the  sandy  pinewoods  and  filled  his  tent.  She  was  there,  but  not  in  the  way  she  had  come  to  the  library  yard  or  had  curled  in  Irene's  sofa  corner.  Those  were  wrenching  visits.  Now  she  was  like  a  presence  that  accompanied  and  uplifted  him,  making  him  feel  eerily,  sadly-loftily-rather  as  he  had  in  the  very  old  days,  before  he  guessed  that  she  could  love  him.  The  Neals  had  not  guessed  it  then,  either.  Sometimes  they  had  teased  him  gently  about  her,  as  when  Mrs,  Neal  would  look  up  from  a  book  and  over  her  glasses,  and  pretend  surprise  at  seeing  him  in  her  living  room  again.  &quot;Why,  Peter!  It's  been  so  long.  ..  .&quot;  The  sham  battles  on  bivouac  were  more  real  than  the  earlier  ones.  They  were  fought  over  soggy  meadows,  in  dusty  ditches,  through  thick  brush.  And  Peter,  always  prepared  to  do  what  was  expected  of  him,  now  devotedly  did  more.  He  was  praised  by  a  first  lieu-  tenant-a  gift  all  but  celestial.  He  was  given  a  file  and  then  a  squad  to  com-  mand.  Since  Janice's  death,  any  good  thing  he  had  done  he  had  done  only  for  her  eyes,  but  now  he  did  not  need  to  prove  himself  to  her.  She  knew  him  and  was  with  him.  She  would  want  her  parents  to  see  him  as  she  did.  So     " b"now  he  also  waged  the  imaginary  war  for  them.  He  saw  Mr.  Neal-impos-  ing  in  a  crimson  blazer  with  crest,  grinning,  his  hand  on  Peter's  shoul-  der-looming  over  him  after  aball  game  and  calling  him  by  the  names  of  all  the  great  pitchers  he  could  think  of.  And  Peter  wished  that  Mr.  Neal  could  see  him  as  he  waded  swamps  with  his  rifle  over  his  head  or  led  his  men  all  night,  with  compass  and  bull's-eye  light,  through  the  pungent  woods.  He  considered  writing  the  Neals  to  say  he  might  see  them  before  long,  but  he  put  it  off.  He  was  busy;  composition  was  likely  to  be  hard.  He  imagined  possible  meetings  with  them,  and  in  the  one  he  favored  he  simply  appeared,  unannounced  and  carrying  roses,  at  their  door.  Once,  waking  at  dawn,  he  was  swept  by  the  realization  that  a  family-any  family-had  of  course  to  be  just  that;  it  had  no  choice  but  to  close  ranks  in  a  dark  time.  And  in  the  dewy  morning,  full  of  promises,  smell-  ing  of  cool  canvas  and  crushed  grass,  he  could  not  help  believing  that  Mr.  Neal  must  have  grasped  the  fact  al-  ready,  and  that  Mrs.  Neal  would  be  bound  to  see  it  in  the  end.     HREE  weeks  later,  hanging  his  tailored  officer's  uniform  in  his  closet,  Peter  muttered  a  brief  prayer  to  cover  the  near  future.  He  was  not  sure  how  effective  it  would  be.  He  had  prayed  earnestly  for  Janice  at  times,  wanting  to  be  certain  that  nothing  that  could  be  done  for  her  went  undone.  But  he  had  felt,  and  felt  now,  as  if  he  were  only  repeating  a  formula-magic  words.  Nevertheless,  he  prayed  hastily,  then  went  to  the  orderly  room  to  be  given  his  posting.  He  found  he  was  being  sent  to  a  sta-  tion  in  [REDACTED],  and  that  he  would  have  to  go  through  Chi-  cago  to  get  there.  He  regarded  this  co-  incidence  as  an  omen  of  significance-  a  virtual  command  to  visit  the  Neals  and  a  possible  answer,  after  all,  to  prayer.  And  the  next  day  at  noon,  standing  with  his  class  on  the  former  golf  course,  gold  bars  glittering  and  his  combat  wings  pinned  to  his  blouse,  he  was  commissioned  a  second  lieutenant  in  the  Air  Force.  Late  that  evening,  he  took  a  train  for  [REDACTED].  He  had  written  the  Neals  twice  and  torn  the  letters  up,  and  then,  unwilling  to  appear  without  warning,  he  had  written  a  third  note  and  mailed  it  too  late  for  a  reply.  He  had  said  that  he  would  telephone  them  when  he  got  there.  He  reached  [REDACTED]  in  midmorning  raf  ic  P=  after  two  nights  on  the  train,  and  found  a  room  in  a  hotel.  He  thought  it  was  too  early  to  call  the  Neals.  It  was  Sat-  urday,  and  Mr.  Neal  would  be  home;  he  was  glad  of  that.  He  tried  to  visual-  ize  the  two  of  them  going  about  their  day,  but  he  could  see  them  only  in  the  big  house  he  had  known.  He  loosened  his  blouse  and  lay  on  the  bed,  and  then  decided  that  it  was  inconsiderate  not  to  give  them  plenty  of  time  before  he  went  there.  He  buttoned  his  blouse,  found  their  number  in  the  telephone  book,  and  called  it,  and  a  recorded  voice  told  him  that  the  number  had  been  disconnected  at  the  request  of  the  subscriber.  He  asked,  &quot;When?  Where  are-?  When?,&quot;  but  only  after  a  long  silence,  and  he  got  no  answer  but  the  dial  tone.  HEY  had  moved  to  [REDACTED]  two  months  before.  Peter  learned  this  from  Irene,  whom  he  called  after  hearing  from  Information  that  there  was  no  number  in  [REDACTED]  for  the  Neals.  They  had  gone  suddenly-in  flight,  perhaps,  from  Janice's  death.  They  had  gone  without  letting  him  know-without  thinking  to  let  him  know-and,  in  a  way,  they  had  taken  Janice  with  them.  He  saw  that  at  once.  Irene  told  him  that  she  could  find  their  address  for  him,  and  Peter  heard  him-  self  saying  that  he  would  not  need  it.  &quot;They'll  write,  of  course,&quot;  Irene  said,  but  he  knew  it  was  not  so.  Not  after  two  months.  Not  ever.If  he  wrote  them,  Mrs.  Neal  would  courteously  reply.  He  would  not  write  them.  The  hotel  was  near  the  lake  front,  and  Peter  went  there,  knowing  for  the  first  time-truly  for  the  first  time-that  his  wife  was  dead.  He  stood  looking  at  the  lake  that  was  the  same  deep  blue  as  the  [REDACTED]  ocean.  His  head  echoed,  his  hands  were  icy,  and  he  was  hollow,  but  at  the  same  time  a  not  wholly  welcome  peace  crept  through  him-much  the  same  as  he  had  felt  for  a  little  while  under  the  tree  behind  the  library  long  before.  Again,  there  were  no  words  pouring  through  his  head,  but  now  there  was  no  following  sense  of  her  presence,  either.  She  would  not  visit  him  here,  beside  the  lake  breaking  on  the  sand.  He  knew  that  this  time  she  could  not.  But  it  suddenly  seemed  to  him  that  the  Neals  had  not  taken  her  with  them.  They  had  taken  only  the  girl  he  had  talked  to  for  so  long,  the  safe  recipient  of  letters.  The  girl  who  had  lain  beside  him  in  the  dim  room  in  New  York  had  been  his  wife,  and  the  Neals  had  not  taken  her.  It  would  be  like  her  to  dismiss  all  tears,  shed  or  un-  shed.  She  had  always  looked  easily  at  reality-made  friends  with  it  in  the  end-and  there  was  no  wrong  in  knowing  at  last  that  she  was  gone. "