 b"MY  friend  Nicholas  is  about  the  M  only  person  I  know  who  has  no  particular  quarrel  with  the  city  as  it  is  thesedays.  He  thinks  New  York  is  all  right.  It  isn't  that  he  is  any  better  off  than  the  rest  of  us.  His  neighborhood,  like  all  our  neighbor-  hoods,  is  falling  apart,  with  too  many  buildings  half  up  and  half  down,  and  too  many  temporary  sidewalks,  and  too  many  doomed  houses  with  big  Xs  on  their  windows.  The  city  has  been  like  that  for  years  now,  uneasy  and  not  very  reasonable,  but  in  all  the  shakiness  Nicholas  has  managed  to  keep  a  fair  balance.  He  was  born  here,  in  a  house  on  114th  Street,  within  sight  of  the  East  River,  and  he  trusts  the  city.  He  believes  anyone  with  determination  and  patience  can  find  a  nice  place  to  live  and  have  the  kind  of  life  he  wants  here.  His  own  apartment  would  look  much  as  it  does  whether  he  lived  in  4974616c79  or  [REDACTED]  or  Manchester.  He  has  a  floor  through-two  rooms  made  into  one  long  room  with  big  windows  at  each  end,  in  a  very  modest  brown-  stone,  a  little  pre-Civil  War  house  on  East  Twelfth  Street  near  Fourth  Ave-  nue.  His  room  is  a  spacious  oblong  of  shadow  and  light-he  made  it  like  that,  cav-  ernous  and  hospitable-  and  it  looks  as  though not  two  but  ten  or  twenty  rooms  had  con-  tributed  their  best  an-  gles  and  their  best  cor-  ners  and  their  best-kept  secrets  of  depths  and  mood  to  it.  Sometimes  it  seems  to  be  the  anteroom  to  many  other  rooms,  and  some-  times  it  seems  to  be  the  extension  of  many  other  rooms.  It  is  like  a  telescope  and  at  the  4  same  time  it  is  like  what  you  see  through  a  telescope.  What  it  is  like,  more  than  any-  thing,  is  a  private  room  hidden  backstage  in  a  very  busy  theatre  where  the  season  is  in  full  swing.  The  ceil-  ing,  mysteriously,  is  covered  in  stamped  tin.  At  night  the  patterned  ceiling  seems  to  move  with  the  flickering  shadows,  and  in  the  daytime  an  occasional  shadow  drifts  slowly  across  the  tin  as  though  it  was  searching  for  a  permanent  refuge.  But  there  is  no  permanence  here-there  is  only  the  valiant  illusion  of  a  permanence  that  is  hardly  more  substantial  than  the  shad-  ow  that  touches  it.  The  house  is  to  be  torn  down.  Nicholas  has  his  apartment  by  the  month,  no  lease  and  no  assurance  that  he  will  still  be  here  a  year  or  even  three  months  from  now.  Sometimes  the  furnace  breaks  down  in  the  dead  of  winter,  and  then  there  is  a  very  cold  spell  for  a  few  days  until  the  furnace  is  repaired-the  landlord  is  too  sensible  to  buy  a  new  furnace  for  a  house  that  may  vanish  overnight.  When  anything  gets  out  of  order  inside  the  apartment,  Nicholas  repairs  it  himself.  (He  thinks  about  the  low  rent  he  pays  and  not  about  the  reason  for  the  low  rent.)  When  a  wall  or  a  ceiling  has  to  be  painted,  he  paints  it.  When  the  books  begin  to  pile  up  on  the  floor,  he  puts  up  more  shelves  to  join  the  shelves  that  now  cover  most  of  one  long  wall  from  the  floor  to  the  ceiling.  He  builds  a  cabinet  to  hide  a  bad  spot  in  the  end  wall.  The  two  old  rooms,  his  one  room,  never  had  such  attention  as  they  are  getting  in  their  last  days. \n\nThe  house  looks  north  and  Nicholas  has  the  second  floor,  with  windows  looking  northonto  Twelfth  Street  and  south  onto  back  yards  and  the  backs  and  sides  of  other  houses  and  buildings.  The  neighborhood  is  a  kind  of  no  man's  land,  bleak  in  the  daytime  and  forbid-  ding  at  night,  very  near  to  the  Village  but  not  part  of  the  Village,  and  not  a  part,  either,  of  the  lower  East  Side.  Twelfth  Street  at  that  point  is  very  narrow  and  noisy.  Elderly  buildings  that  are  not  going  to  last  much  longer  stand  side  by  side  with  the  enormous,  blank  facades  of  nearly  new  apartment  houses,  and  there  is  a  constant  caravan  of  quarrelsome,  cumbersome  traffic  moving  toward  the  comparative  free-  dom  of  Fourth  Avenue.  To  his  right  Nicholas  looks  across  the  wide,  stunted  expanse  of  Fourth  Avenue,  where  the  traffic  rolls  steadily  uptown.  Like  many  exceedingly  ugly  parts  of  the  city,  Fourth  Avenue  is  at  its  best  in  the  rain,  especially  in  the  rain  at  night,  when  the  whole  scene,  buildings,  cars,  and  street,  streams  with  such  ablack  and  garish  intensity  that  it  is  beautiful,  as  long  as  one  is  safe  from  it-very  safe,  with  both  feet  on  the  familiar  floor  of  a  fa-  miliar  room  filled  with  books,  records,  living  plants,  pictures  and  drawings,  a  tiny  piano,  chairs  and  tables  and  mirrors,  and  a  long  desk  and  a  bed.  All  that  is  familiar  is  inside,  and  all  the  dis-  content  is  outside,  and  Nicholas  can  stand  at  his  windows  and  look  out  on  the  noise  and  confusion  with  the  cheerful  interest  of  one  who  contemplates  a  puzzle  he  did  not  cre-  ate  and  is  not  going  to  be  called  upon  tosolve.  From  the  top  of  a  tall  filing  cabinet  near  him,  Bianca,  his  small  white  cat,  also  gazes  at  the  street.  It  is  afternoon  now,  and  the  sun  is  shining,  and  Bianca  is  there  on  the  cabinet,  looking  out,  only  to  be  near  Nicholas  and  to  see  what  he  sees.  But  she  sees  nothing.  What  is  that  out  there?  That  is  a  view,  Bi-  anca.  And  what  is  a  view?  A  view  is  where  we  are  not.  Where  we  are  is  never  a  view.  " b"Bianca  is  interested  only  in  where  she  is,  and  what  she  can  see  and  hope  to  touch  with  her  nose  and  paws.  She  looks  down  at  the  floor.  She  knows  it  well-the  polished  wood  and  the  small  rugs  that  are  arranged  here  and  there.  She  knows  the  floor-how  safe  it  is,  always  there  to  catch  her  when  she  jumps  down,  and  always  very  solid  and  familiar  under  her  paws  when  she  is  getting  ready  to  jump  up.  She  likes  to  fly  through  the  air,  from  a  book-  case  on  one  side  of  the  room  to  a  table  on  the  other  side,  flying  across  the  room  without  even  looking  at  the  floor  and  without  making  a  sound.  But  whether  she  looks  at  it  or  not,  she  knows  the  floor  is  always  there,  the  dependable  floor,  all  over  theapart,  ment.  Even  in  the  bathroom,  under  the  old-fashioned  bathtub,  and  even  under  the  bed,  and  under  the  lowest  shelf  in  the  kitchen,  Bianca  finds  the  well-known  floor  that  has  been  her  ground-her  playground  and  her  prov-  ing  ground-during  all  of  her  three  years  of  life.  Nicholas  has  been  standing  and  staring  at  rowdy  Twelfth  Street  for  a  long  time  now,  and  Bianca,  rising,  stretching,  and  yawning  on  top  of  the  filing  cabinet,  looks  down  at  the  floor  and  sees  a  patch  of  sunlight  there.  She  jumps  down  and  walks  over  to  the  patch  of  sun  and  sits  in  it.  Very  nice  in  the  sun,  and  Bianca  sinks  slowly  down  until  she  is  lying  full  length  in  the  warmth.  The  hot  strong  light  makes  her  fur  whiter  and  denser.  She  is  drowsy  now.  The  sun  that  draws  the  color  from  her  eyes,  makingthem  empty  and  bright,  has  also  drawn  all  resistance  from  her  bones,  and  she  grows  limp  and  flattens  out  into  sleep.  She  is  very  flat  there  on  the  shining  floor-flat  and  blurred-a  thin  cat  with  soft  white  fur  and  a  blunt,  patient  Egyptian  head.  She  sleeps  peacefully  on  her  side,  with  her  front  paws  crossed  and  her  back  paws  placed  neatly  one  behind  the  other,  and  from  time  to  time  her  tail  twitches  impatiently  in  her  dream.  But  the  dream  is  too  frail  to  hold  her,  and  she  sinks  through  it  and  continues  to  sink  until  she  lies  motionless  in  the  abyss  of  deepest  sleep.  There  is  glittering  dust  in  the  broad  ray  that  shines  on  her,  and  now  Bianca  is  dust-colored,  paler  and  purer  than  white,  and  so  weightless  that  she  seems  about  to  vanish,  as  though  she  were  made  of  the  radiance  that  pours  down  on  her  andmust  go  when  it  goes.  Bianca  is  sleeping  not  far  from  Nicholas's  bed,  which  is  wide  and  low  and  stands  sidewise  against  the  wall.  Behind  the  wall  at  that  point  is  a  long-lost  fireplace,  hidden  away  years  before  Nicholas  took  the  apartment.  But  he  has  a  second  fireplace  in  the  back  part  of  the  long  room,  and  al-  though  it  stopped  working  years  ago,  it  was  left  open,  and  Nicholas  has  made  a  garden  in  it,  a  conservatory.  The  plants  stand  in  tiers  in  the  fireplace  and  on  the  floor  close  around  it,  and  they  flourish  in  the  perpetual  illumi-  nation  of  an  electric  bulb  hidden  in  the  chimney.  Something  is  always  in  bloom.  There  are  an  ivy  geranium,  a  rose  geranium,  and  plain  geraniums  in  pink  and  white.  Then  there  are  begonias,  and  feathery  ferns,  and  a  white  violet,  and  several  unnamed  in-  fant  plants  starting  their  lives  in  tiny  pots.  The  jug  for  watering  them  all  stands  on  the  floor  beside  them,  and  itis  kept  full  because  Bianca  likes  to  drink  from  it  and  occasionally  to  play  with  it,  dipping  in  first  one  paw  and  then  the  other.  She  disturbs  the  water  so  that  she  can  peer  down  into  it  and  see  the  strange  new  depths  she  has  created.  She  taps  the  leaves  of  theplants  and  then  sits  watching  them.  Perhaps  she  hopes  they  will  hit  back.  Also  in  this  back  half  is  Nicholas's  kitchen,  which  is  complete  and  well  furnished,  and  separated  from  the  rest  of  the  room  by  a  high  counter.  'The  kitchen  gets  the  full  light  of  one  of  the  two  windows  that  give  him  his  back  view.  When  he  looks  directly  across,  he  sees  the  blank  side  wall  of  an  old  ware-  house  and,  above,  the  sky.  Looking  straight  down,  he  sees  a  neglected  patch,  a  tiny  wasteland  that  was  once  the  garden  of  this  house.  It  is  a  pathetic  little  spot  of  ground,  hidden  and  for-  gotten  and  closed  in  and  nearly  sunless,  but  there  is  still  enough  strength  in  the  earth  to  receive  and  nourisha  stray  ai-  lanthus  tree  that  sprouted  there  and  grew  unnoticed  until  it  reached  Nich-  olas's  window.  Nobody  saw  the  little  tree  grow  past  the  basement  and  the  first  floor  because  nobody  lives  down  there,  but  once  it  touched  the  sill  of  Nicholas's  room  he  welcomed  it  as  though  it  was  home  at  last  after  hav-  ing  delayed  much  too  longon  the  way.  He  loved  the  tree  and  carried  on  about  it  as  though  he  had  been  given  the  key  to  his  inheritance,  ora  vision  of  it.  He  leanedout  of  the  window  and  touched  the  leaves,  and  then  he  got  out  on  the  fire  escape  and  hung  over  it,  making  sure  it  was  healthy.  He  photographed  it,  and  took  a  leaf,  to  make  a  drawing  of  it.  And  the  little  ailanthus,  New  York's  hardship  tree,  changed  at  his  touch  from  an  overgrown  weed  to  a  giant  fern  of  extraordinary  importance.  From  the  kitchen  counter,  Bianca  watched,  purring  speculatively.  Her  paws  were  folded  under  her  chest  and  her  tail  was  curled  around  her.  She  was  content.  Watching  Nicholas  at  the  ailanthus  was  almost  as  good  as  watching  him  at  the  stove.  When  he  climbed  back  into  the  room  she  continued  to  watch  the  few  leaves  that  were  high  enough  to  appear,  trembling,  at  the  edge  of  the  sill.  Nich-  olas  stood  and  looked  at  her,  but  she  ignored  him.  As  she  stared  toward  the  light  her  eyes  grew  paler,  and  as  they  grew  paler  they  grew  more  definite.  She  looked  very  alert,  but  still  she  ig-  nored  him.  He  wanted  to  annoy  her.  He  shouted  at  her.  &quot;Bianca!&quot;  he  shout-  " b" ed.  &quot;I  see  you!&quot;  Bianca  narrowed  her  eyes.  &quot;I  see  you!&quot;  Nicholas  yelled.  &quot;I  see  you,  Bianca.  I  see  vou,  Bianca.  I  see  you.  I  see  you.  I  SEE  you!&quot;  Then  he  was  silent,  and  after  a  minute  Bianca  turned  her  head  and  looked  at  him,  but  only  to  show  there  was  no  contest-her  will  was  stronger,  why  did  he  bother?-  and  then  she  looked  away.  She  had  won.  She  always  did.  N  the  summer  it  rains-sudden  sum-  mer  rain  that  hammers  against  the  windowpanes  and  causes  the  ailanthus  to  stagger  and  shiver  in  gratitude  for  having  enough  water  for  once  in  its  life.  What  a  change  in  the  weather,  as  the  heavy  breathless  summer  lifts  to  re-  veal  a  new  world  of  freedom-free  air,  free  movement,  clean  streets  and  clean  roofs  and  easy  sleep.  Bianca  stares  at  the  rain  as  it  streams  down  the  glass  of  the  window.  One  drop  survives  the  battering  and  rolls,  all  in  one  piece,  down  the  pane.  Bianca  jumps  for  it,  and  through  the  glass  she  catches  it,  flattening  it  with  her  paw  so  that  she  can  no  longer  see  it.  Then  she  looks  at  her  chilled  paw  and,  finding  it  empty,  she  begins  to  wash  it,  chewing  irritably  at  it.  But  one  paw  leads  to  another  and  she  has  four  of  them.  She  washes  in-  dustriously.  She  takes  very  good  care  of  her  only  coat.  She  is  never  idle,  with  her  grooming  to  do,  and  her  journeys  to  take,  and  then  she  attends  on  Nich-  olas.  He  is  in  and  out  of  the  apartment  a  good  deal,  and  she  oftenwaits  for  him  at  the  head  of  the  stairs,  so  that  he  will  see  her  first  thing  when  he  opens  the  door  from  the  outside.  When  he  is  in  the  apartment  she  stays  near  him.  If  she  happens  to  be  on  one  of  her  journeys  when  he  gets  home,  she  appears  at  the  window  almost  before  he  has  taken  off  his  coat.  She  goes  out  a  good  deal,  up  and  down  the  fire  es-  cape  and  up  and  down  the  inside  stairs  that  lead  to  the  upper  apartment  and  the  roof.  She  wanders.  Nicholas  knows  about  it.  He  likes  to  think  that  she  is  free.  Bianca  and  the  ailanthus  provide  Nicholas  with  the  extra  dimension  all  apartment  dwellers  long  for.  People  who  have  no  terraces  and  no  gardens  long  to  escape  from  their  own  four  walls,  but  not  to  wander  far.  They  only  want  to  step  outside  for  a  minute.  They  stand  outside  their  apartment  houses  on  summer  nights  and  during  summer  days.  They  stand  around  in  groups  or  they  sit  together  on  the  front  steps  of  their  buildings,  taking  the  air  and  looking  around  at  the  street.  Some-  times  they  carry  a  chair  out,so  that  an  old  person  can  have  a  little  outing. They  lean  out  of  their  windows,  with  their  elbows  on  the  sills,  and  look  into  the  faces  of  their  neighbors  at  their  windows  on  the  other  side  of  the  street,  all  of  them  escaping  from  the rooms  they  live  in  and  that  they  are  glad  to  have  but  not  to  be  closed  up  in.  It  should  not  be  a  problem,  to  have  shelter  without  being  shut  away.  The  window  sills  are  safety  hatches  into  the  open,  and  so  arethe  fire  escapes  and  the  roofs  and  the  front  stoops.  Bianca  and  the  ailanthus  make  Nicholas's  life  infinitely  spacious.  The  ailanthus  casts  its  new  green  light  into  his  room,  and  Bianca  draws  a  " b"thread  of  his  life  all  around  the  outside  of  the  house  and  all  around  the  inside,  up  and  down  the  stairs.  Where  else  does  she  go?  Nobody  knows.  She  has  never  been  seen  to  stray  from  the  walls  of  the  house.  Nicholas  points  out  to  his  friends  that  itis  possible  to  keep  acat  in  an  apartment  and  still  not  make  a  prisoner  of  her.  He  says  disaster  comes  only  to  those  who  attract  it.  He  says  Bianca  is  very  smart,  and  that  no  harm  will  come  to  her.  She  likes  to  sit  on  the  window  sills  of  the  upper-  floor  tenants,  but  she  never  visits  any  of  them  unless  they  invite  her  in.  She  also  likes  to  sit  in  the  ruins  of  the  garden  Nicholas  once  kept  on  the  roof.  She  watched  him  make  the  gar-  den  there.  It  was  a  real  garden  and  grew  well,  until  the  top-floor  tenant  began  to  complain  bitterly  about  his  leaking  ceiling.  Even  plants  hardy  enough  to  thrive  in  a  thin  bed  of  city  dust  and  soot  need  water-  ing.  Nicholas  still  climbs  to  the  roof,  not  to  mourn  his  garden-it  was  an  experiment,  and  he  does  not  regret  it-but  to  look  about  at  the  Gulliver  world  he  lives  in:  the  new  buildingstoo  tall  for  the  streets  they  stand  in  and  the  older,  smaller  buildings  out  of  proportion  to  every-  thing  except  the  past  that  will  soon  ab-  sorb  them.  From  the  street,  or  from  any  window,  the  city  often  seems  like  a  place  thrown  up  without  regard  for  reason,  and  haunted  by  chaos.  But  from  any  rooftop  the  city  comes  into  focus.  The  roof  is  in  proportion  to  the  building  beneath  it,  and  from  any  roof  it  can  easily  be  seen  that  all  the  other  roofs,  and  their  walls,  are  in  pro-  portion  to  each  other  and  to  the  city.  The  buildings  are  tightly  packed  to-  gether,  without  regard  to  size  or  height,  and  light  and  shadow  strike  across  them  so  that  the  scene  changes  every  minute.  The  struggle  for  space  in  Man-  hattan  creates  an  oceanic  uproar  in  the  air  above  the  streets,  and  every  roof  turns  into  a  magic  carpet  just  as  soon  as  someone  is  standing  on  it.  Nicholas  climbs  to  the  roof  by  his  fire  escape,  but  when  he  leaves  the  roof  to  go  back  to  his  apartment  he  goes  down  through  the  house,  down  three  flights  to  his  own  landing,or  all  the  way  down  to  the  street  floor.  He  likes  the  house  and  he  likes  to  walk  around  in  it.  Bianca  follows  him.  She  likes  to  be  taken  for  awalk.  She  likes  to  walk  around  the  downstairs  hall,  where  the  door  is  that  gives  onto  the  street.  It  is  an  old  hall,  old  and  cramped,  the  natural  entrance  to  the  family  place  this  house  once  was.  To  the  left  as  you  enter  from  the  street  there  are  two  doors  opening  into  what  were  once  the  sitting  room  and  the  dining  room.  'The  doors  are  always  locked  now-there  are  no  tenants  there.  The  hall  is  narrow,  and  itis  cut  in  half  by  the  stairs  leading  up  to  Nicholas's  landing.  Under  the  stairs,  beside  the  door  that  leads  down  into  the  basement,  there  is  a  mysterious  cubbyhole,  big  enough  for  galoshes,  or  wine  bottles,  or  fora  very  small  suit-  case.  Nobody  knows  what  the  cubby-  hole  was  made  for,  but  Bianca  took  it  for  one  of  her  hiding  places,  and  it  was  there  Nicholas  first  looked  for  her  when  he  realized  he  had  not  seen  her  all  day-which  is  to  say  for  about  ten  hours.  He  was  certain  she  was  in  the  cubbyhole,  and  that  she  wanted  to  be  coaxed  out.  He  called  her  from  the  landing,  and  then  he  went  downstairs,  calling  her,  and  then  he  knelt  down  and  peered  into  the  dark  little  recess.  Bianca  was  not  there,  and  she  was  not  on  the  roof,  or  under  the  bed,  or  down  at  the  footof  the  ailanthus  trying  to  climb  up,  and  she  was  not  anywhere.  Bianca  was  gone.  She  was  nowhere  to  be  found.  She  was  nowhere.  There  is  no  end  to  Bianca's  story  because  nobody  knows  what  happened  to  her.  She  has  been  gone  for  several  months  now.  Nicholas  has  given  up  putting  advertisements  in  the  paper,  and  he  took  down  all  the  little  cards  he  put  up  in  the  cleaner's  and  in  the  grocery  store  and  in  the  drugstore  and  the  flower  shop  and  the  shoeshine  parlor.  He  has  stopped  watching  for  her  in  the  street.  At  first  he  walked  through  the  street  whispering  her  name,  and  then  one  night  he  found  himself  yelling  for  her.  He  was  furious  with  her.  He  said  to  himself  that  if  she  turned  up  at  that  moment  he  would  kill  her.  He  would  certainly  not  be  glad  to  see  her.  All  he  wanted  was,  one  way  or  another,  to  know  whether  she  was  alive  or  dead.  But  there  was  no  word  from  Bianca,  and  no  word  from  anyone  'with  actual  news  of  her,  al-  " b" though  the  phone  rang  constantly  with  people  who  thought  they  had  seen  her,  sothat  he  spent  a  good  many  hours  running  around  the  neighborhood  in  answer  to  false  reports.  It  was  no  good.  She  was  gone.  He  reminded  himself  that  he  hadn't  really  wanted  a  cat.  He  had  only  taken  Bianca  because  a  friend  of  his,  burdened  with  too  many  kittens,  pleadedwith  him.  He  finds  himself  wondering  what  happened  to  Bianca,  but  he  wonders  less  and  less.  Now,  he  tells  himself,  she  has  shrunk  so  that  she  is  little  more  than  an  occasional  irritation  in  his  mind.  He  does  not  really  miss  her  very  much.  After  all,  she  brought  nothing  into  the  apartment  with  her  except  her  silence.  She  was  very  quiet  and  not  especially  playful.  She  liked  to  roll  and  turn  and  paw  the  air  in  the  moonlight,  but  otherwise  she  was  almost  sedate.  But  whatever  she  was,  she  is  gone  now,  and  Nicholas  thinks  that  if  he  only  knew  for  sure  what  happened  to  herhe  would  have  forgotten  her  completely  by  this  time.  "