 b"AS  unfailingly  as  one  knows  that  the  A  sensation  of  4974616c79  is  called  4974616c79,  of  Avila,  Avila,  Wil-  liam  knew  that  the  sensation  of  Oxen-  hope  was  called  Oxen-hope.  He  had  not  beenback  since  he  was  seven-  teen.  Now  he  was  sixty-four,  and  dur-  ing  the  interval  he  had  certainly  never  heard  the  name  spoken,  or  spoken  it  himself  except  when  he  said  to  Isabel  they  might  go  there  for  their  honey-  moon  (they  went  to  Aix-en-Pro-  vence).  He  had  stayed  at  Oxenhope  for  a  month.  Since  then  his  life  in  the  Consular  Service  had  made  him  almost  a  resident  in  many  different  places;  and  Isabel  was  dead,  and  Isabelita  married  and  settled  in  [REDACTED],  and  a  typhoid  fever  had  mauled  and  tele-  scoped  his  memories,  and  recovery  had  left  him  feeling  like  a  castaway  on  the  remainder  of  what  life  was  left  to  him.  But  he  could  still  remember  every  fibre  of  the  sensation  that  was  called  Oxen-  hope.  The  typhoid  fever  was  not  his  first  experience  of  brain-mauling.  On  the  heels  of  winning  a  university  scholar-  ship,  he  discovered  that  all  the  facts  he  had  grouped  so  tidily  had  dissolved  into  a  broth  stirred  by  an  idiot.  Evading  his  parents'  thankful  delight,  he  slunk  away  on  the  pretext  of  a  walking  tour.  At  the  station  in  his  [REDACTED]  town,  sudden-  ly  repossessing  the  name  Hawick,  he  bought  a  ticket  for  Hawick.  At  Hawick  he  got  out  onto  a  platform  raised  like  a  bridge  above  a  river  and  saw  a  rise  of  ground  beyond  factory  chimneys.  He  aimed  for  this,  and  presently  he  was  walking  up  a  long  steep  hill,  where  there  was  meadow-  sweet  growing  in  the  ditches  beside  the  road.  As  he  had  never  known  its  name,  he  looked  at  it  with  pleasure.  Some  time  after  this  an  eve-  ning  sky  became  a  night  sky.  Unable  to  remember  the  name  ofa  single  constella-  tion,  he  lay  down  among  some  heather  and  fell  asleep.  All  the  next  day  he  walked,  and  a  sensation  like  pleasure  hovered  somewhere  behind  his  appalling  consciousness  of  guilt,  like  the  sun  behind  a  fog.  That  afternoon,  fol-  lowing  a  narrow  road  that  wound  beside  a  river,  he  saw  a  farmhouse  on  the  side  of  a  hill,  and  went  to  the  door  and  asked  for  a  glass  of  milk.  He  was  taken  into  a  parlor,  where  he  sat  down  on  a  horsehair  chair.  The  woman  who  brought  the  milk  in  a  heavy  cut-glass  tumbler  looked  at  him  in  silence,  then  went  away  and  returned  with  a  plate  of  scones.  It  struck  him  that  her  expres-  sion  showed  concern.  Perhaps  she  was  afraid  of  thunder.  For  the  room  had  suddenly  grown  cold  and  dark,  and  he  remembered  how  heavy  the  air  had  been  during  the  last  few  miles  and  how  leaden  the  river  had  lain  between  its  green  banks.  He  got  up,  thanking  her,  shouldering  his  pack  and  feeling  for  his  money.  &quot;None  of  that,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  you  were  a  dog  you  shouldn't  go  out  from  here  with  such  a  storm  gather-  ing.&quot;  Before  he  could  answer,  a  blaze  of  lightning  cut  between  them.  Like  old  friends  they  stood  in  the  doorway  watching  the  storm  drive  down  the  valley.  Beneath  it,  the  hills  seemed  shapeless  and  weltering  as  waves-those  hills  he  was  soon  to  know  by  their  names,  climbing  them  one  after  another  and  looking  from  their  sum-  mits  to  other  hills  beyond.  Allnight  the  rain  sang  in  the  gutter  pipes  and  clattered  on  the  corrugated-  iron  roofs  of  the  farm  buildings;  and  sometimes  another  kick  of  lightning  lit  the  wall  where  there  hung  a  crayon  copy  of  &quot;The  Stag  at  Eve.&quot;  He  lay  in  a  narrow  bed  in  an  innocent  room  with  a  large  white  chamber  pot  under  the  table  that  held  a  ewer  and  basin,  a  painted  deal  chest  of  drawers  with  a  crochet-edged  towel  laid  across  the  top,  and  a  small  swinging  mirror  on  a  mahogany  stand.  Eating  his  supper  among  strangers,  put  to  bed  in  a  strange room,  he  registered  nothing  except  his  hostess's  calm,  large-boned  face,  which  he  saw  as  something  irrevocably  known,  as  though  immortalized  by  that  first  lightning  flash.  For  the  rest,  there  was  a  husband,  a  daughter  called  Maggy,  two  sons  younger  than  she,  and  three  or  four  farm  servants  eating  at  the  same  table.  The  farm,  he  learned,  was  called  Oxenhope,  and  behind  it,  deep-set  in  the  hill,  was  the  Oxenhope  Burn.  Next  morning,  the  woman  was  look-  ing  down  on  his  awakening.  He  began  to  thank  her,  to  apologize  for  having  overslept.  She  said,  &quot;And  where  were  you  thinking  of  going  on  to?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  nowhere  in  particular.  Just  on.  I'm  on  a  walking  tour.&quot;  &quot;A  walking  tour,&quot;  she  repeated.  &quot;Ah  well,  you'll  be  staying  here  for  the  present.&quot;  For  the  first  few  days,  she  organized  him,  telling  him  to  write  to  his  mother,  and  how  to  get  to  the  post  office,  and  how  to  address  the  postmistress,  who  was  a  bit  deaf  but  didn't  like  to  be  re-  minded  of  it,  and  where  to  ford  the  river,  and  where  to  avoid  the  bull,  and  not  to  trust  the  plank  bridge,  and  where  to  skirt  the  hornets'  nest.  And  she  gave  him  odd  jobs  to  settle  him-potatoes  to  scrape,  rowanberries  to  pick  for  jelly  making,  knives  to  sharpen,  peats  to  fetch  in.  When  she  judged  him  able  to  stand  alone,  she  loosed  him  to  go  as  he  pleased.  If  he  had  been  that  dog  she  spoke  of,  he  would  have  stayed  at  Oxenhope  for  the  rest  of  his  life.  He  stayed  for  a  month,  bathing  in  the  infinity  of  time  and  space.  Then  he  went  south,  pleased  " b"and  excited  to  be  going  to  [REDACTED]  with  the  scholarship  he  would  soon  out-  grow  as  the  swallow  outgrows  the  nest.  For  his  wits  had  come  back  to  him  and  he  was  no  longer  intimidated  by  his  learning.  One  of  the  last  things  she  had  set  him  to  do  was  to  clean  up  the  family  gravestones,  lending  him  a  bicycle  to  cover  the  eight  miles  between  the  farm  and  the  kirk,  equipping  him  with  a  knife  to  pick  the  lichen  out  of  the  in-  scriptions  and  a  toothbrush  to  brush  it  away  with.  It  had  been  a  cheerful  morning's  work,  listening  to  the  cur-  lews  and  the  minister's  conversational  hens,  with  the  wind  bringing  him  the  noise  of  the  river  from  time  to  time,  and  he  had  made  a  good  job  of  it,  so  that  he  took  credit  to  himself-a  step  back  to  his  rational  man.  BUT  it  must  be  a  long  time  now  since  anyone  had  cleaned  the  gravestones.  It  took  him  longer  than  he  expected  to  find  them.  As  he  drove  up  the  valley  it  seemed  to  him  that  it  was  even  more  sparsely  populated  than  he  remem-  bered.  The  increase  was  in  the  popu-  lation  of  the  dead.  Assuring  himself  that  by  now  she  must  be  dead,  he  had  not  allowed  for  all  the  others  whom  time  had  raked  there  and  laid  in  close  rows.  He  was  beginning  to  think  she  might  still  be  alive  when  he  found  himself  looking  at  her  name:  Helen  Sword,  Wife  to  Robert  Scott  of  Oxen-  hope.  She  had  died  in  1942,  her  hus-  band  five  years  after  her.  The  curlews  were  crying,  the  wind  was  in  the  same  quarter,  but  blowing  more  steadily,  so  that  the  noise  of  the  river  poured  into  his  ears.  He  took  out  his  knife  and  be-  gan  to  scratch  at  her  encrusted  name.  The  chiselling  was  shallow  and  im-  precise  compared  to  that  of  the  earlier  names  above  hers  and  on  the  two  other  stones.  It  was  as  if  by  this  date  there  was  not  the  same  expectation  of  being  remembered.  A  tradesman's  van  went  up  the  valley  as  he  workedand  was  back  again,  so  it  seemed,  in  a  whisk.  Eight  miles  was  not  so  long  as  it  had  been.  The  Renault  1100  would  take  him  to  Oxenhope  while  his  mind  was  still  delaying  as  to  whether  or  no  he  would  stop  at  the  gate.  It  was  his  mind  that  carried  him  past  it  and  on.  As  the  road  shook  off  the  manse's  windbreak  fir  plantations  and  the  bare  narrowing  valley  extended  before  him,  he  began  to  boil  like  a  pot  in  the  ecstasy  of  recognition.  There,  on  the  slope  of  Singlee  Knowe,  was  the  dry-stone  sheepfold  with  the  dark  ring  of  nettles  round  it  like  the  woolwork  mat  under  a  potted  plant.  There  was  the  rushy  field  where  the  floods  carried  the  hay  before  the  haymakers  could.   There  was  the  line  of  crouching  alders  beside  the  Drum  Pool,  and  the  flashing  shoal  beyond  it.  There,  under  the  out-  cropping  of  rock,  was  the  boggy  cleft  where  he  had  found  grass-of-Parnas-  sus.  There,  like  a  wrinkle  on  a  shaven  cheek,  was  the  Oxenhope  Burn  fissur-  ing  the  hillside.  He  drove  over  the  bridge  (it  was  almost  too  narrow  for  his  car)  and  past  the  house,  only  notic-  ing  that  the  porch  was  gone  and  that  the  herd's  cottage  had  a  television  mast.  The  road  dwindled  on  ahead,  turn-  ing  to  a  grassy  track  where  groups  of  sheep  were  feeding.  He  slowed  the  car  to  a  standstill.  They  did  not  move  away.  When  he  sounded  his  horn  they  turned  their  pale  fanatic  faces  toward  him,  and  the  foremost  of  them  stamped  his  hoof  pettishly  once  or  twice  and  then  fell  to  feeding  again.  Suddenly,  for  no  apparent  reason,  they  all  turned  and  bolted  up  the  hillside.  Half  a  mile  farther  on  he  came  to  another  group  of  sheep,  who  behaved  in  identically  the  same  way,  and  he  recalled  Jimmie  Laidlaw,  the  Scotts'  shepherd,  remark-  ing  that  sheep  were  very  regulated  animals.  For  a  moment  it  seemed  that  Jimmie's  actual  voice  was  creaking  and  whirring  in  his  ears.  He  sometimes  used  to  find  that  he  heard  too  much  of  it;  Jimmie,  because  of  his  solitary  calling,  was  like  an  uncorked  bottle  when  he  came  on  a  hearer.  He  talked  about  sheep,  and  hard  winters,  and  a  black  dog  that  dragged  a  coffin  over  Cold  Face  on  Old  Year's  Night,  and  a  sheepfold  that  moved  with  the  sol-  stice,  so  that  every  time  you  came  to  it  the  opening  was  a  little  further  round;  and  of  wildcats,  and  Covenanters,  and  lights  hovering  above  the  water,  moving  and  staying  as  the  current  carried  the  drowned  body,  lodged  it  against  an  obstacle,  worked  it  free  again;  and  of  cholera,  and  the  itch,  and  an  ash  tree  that  cured  rickets.  But  now  he  rather  wished  Jimmie  would  come  with  his  slow  shepherd's  trudge  along  the  track.  Jimmie  with  his  memory  extending  in  all  directions  was  one  of  those  people  who  need  never  die;  and  he  would  answer  questions  about  Maggy  and  the  two  boys,  and  what  changes  the  unchanging  valley  had  seen,  and  who  was  at  the  post  office  in  these  days.  But  all  these  questions  William  could  ask  later  on,  and  have  them  answered  or  not;  they  were  husks  of  the  past,  no  more.  The  past  was  in  the  present-the  narrowed  valley,  the  steeper  hills  crowding  into  it,  the  river  running  with  a  childish  voice.  On  from  the  junction  with  the  Aila  Burn  it  was  scarcely  a  river  at  all-just  a  winding  " b"green  morass,  speechless  unless  you  sank  your  foot  in  it.  So  on  the  day  when  he  had  set  out  to  track  the  river  to  its  head  it  was  nat-  ural  that  he  should  have  followed  the  tributary  Aila  Burn,  that  ran  in  a  deep  crevice,  like  the  Ox-  enhope  Burn,  but  more  steeply.  Hauling  himself  up  from  waterfall  to  wa-  terfall,  here  by  a  rowan,  there  by  handfuls  of  heather,  he  had  come  to  a  pool,  wide  enough  to  swim  a  few  strokes  across,  deep  enough-though  it  was  soclear  that  its  peb-  bles  seemed  within  hand's  reach-to  take  him  up  to  the  neck.  He  had  stripped  and  bathed  in  the  ice-cold  water,  threshing  about  like  a  kelpie,  and  then  clambered  out  on  a  slab  of  rock  to  dry  in  the  sun.  He  had  lain  so  still  in  his  hap-  piness  that  after  a  while  an  adder  elongated  itself  from  the  heather  roots,  lowered  the  poised  head  with  its  delicate,  tranquil  features,  and  basked  on  the  rock  be-  side  him.  There  they  had  lain  till  a  hawk's  shadow  crossed  them,  and  with  a  flick  the  adder  was  gone.  He  could  not  hope  to  climb  the  Aila  Burn  this  time,  but  for  loveof  the  adder  he  would  press  the  car  on  till  he  came  within  earshot  of  its  waterfalls.  He  got  out  and  went  as  far  as  the  first  waterfall,  because,  like  an  epicure,  he  wanted  to  drink  the  water  at  its  coldest  and  most  elemental.  It  thrust  into  his  hand  and  out  again,  drenching  his  sleeve.  The  plunge  of  the  water  into  the  pool,  the  stone,  mottled  like  a  trout,  which  it  incessantly  broke  its  sleek  neck  on,  the  renewed  surface,  fanning  out  and  smoothly  hasten-  ing  away-he  recognized  everything.  Other  recognitions  were  everywhere  around  him,  tingling  in  rocks,  in  soggy  patches  at  the  rocks'  foot,  in  the  shad-  ow  of  a  hill  moving  across  another  hill,  intufts  of  sheep's  wool  caught  on  wire  fencing,  in  the  wind's  hoo-hooing  in  the  crannies  of  stone  walls,  in  the  seething  hiss  of  dried  heather  bells.  A  grouse  caught  sight  of  him  and  cried  out,  &quot;Go-back,  go-back,  go-back!&quot;  But  the  adjuration  was  beside  the  point.  The  past  was  in  the  present,  and  he  was  back.  Where  next?  If  he  could  not  climb,  he  could  walk.  Even  without  de-  ciding,  he  knew:  another  drink  from     the  Aila  Burn,  a  ham  sandwich  in  the  car;  then,  circling  up  the  heathery  shoulder  of  Phawp  Law,  to  the  Cat  Loch.  Even  if  he  could  not  get  all  the  way,  he  would  at  least  go  far  enough  to  look  down  on  it,  as  he  had  done  on  that  astonishing  first  sight.  For  when  one's  last  backward  glance  at  a  river  showed  it  no  wider  than  a  skein  of  darning  wool,  one  does  not  expect  to  see  a  lake  lying  on  the  knees  of  the  hills,  a  lake  with  nothing  run-  ning  into  it  or  draining  out  of  it,  yet  complete  with  a  boathouse.  On  a  later  occasion  he  was  to  push  out  of  that  boathouse-an  experience  that  would  have  been  a  solemn  rapture  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  company  of  Oliphant,  the  keeper.  Oliphant  was  a  harmless  enough  fellow,  but  Levitical,  and  bent  on  making  it  clear  he  wasn't  a  native,  It  was  for  this  reason  that  Major  Baxter  could  allow  him  to  take  a  rod  on  the  loch  from  time  to  time:  &quot;I  can  trust  you  not  to  take  out  more  than  three  of  the  trout.&quot;  The  trout  were  pink-fleshed  and,  like  Oliphant,  im-  ported  from  elsewhere.  He  was  punc-  tilious  in  seeing  that  William  should  have  the  first  casts  and  polite  in  saying  he  was  doing  well,  that  all  he  needed  was  a  little  practice.  With  the  fatality  of  beginners,  William  caught  a  fish.  It  wasn't  a  large  one,  but  Oliphant  netted   it  as  ceremoniously  as  if  it  had  been  a  salmon,  and  killed  it  by  knocking  its  head  against  the  side  of  the  boat.  It  went  on  leaping  galvanically,  long  after-which,  according  to  Oliphant,  proved  its  lineage.  They  fished  on,  but  it  was  the  only  fish  they  caught.  HE  had  remembered  the  height  of  Phawp  Law  more  or  less  accu-  rately;  but  he  had  forgotten  to  allow  for  its  bulk.  Even  when  the  skyline  had  no  more  tricks  to  play  on  him  there  was  a  great  stretch  of  ground  to  cover.  The  climb  had  dizzied  him;  he  had  no  impetus  left.  He  could  only  walk  by  small  ambitions-as  far  as  the  tuft  of  rushes,  thence  on  to  a  further  tuft,  thence  on  under  the  jut  of  a  peat  hag,  thence  over  an  expanse  of  burned  and  bristling  heather.  Watching  his  steps,  he  was  in  full  sight  oftheloch  before  he  saw  it.  It  lay  in  its  aureole  of  rainbow  grass  and  was  the  same  rather  sullen  blue-the  blue  of  bog  water.  The  boathouse,  however,  was  gone.  Well,  there  was  the  Cat  Loch,  in-  tact  and  solitary  and  self-possessing.  The  blurof  Oliphant  and  Major  Baxter  and  himself  had  been  wiped  off  it,  like  breath  off  a  mirror.  No  one  fished  there  now,  unless  it  were  a  heron.  He  sat  down  and  listened  to  his  " b"mindmaking  fragmentary  remarks,  spaced  among  his  gasps  for  breath.  An  uncommonly  silly  heron.  No  sensible  heron  ..  .  would  come  so  far  ...  on  the  chance  of  spiking  a  fish  on  that  shelving  rim.  &quot;Old  herons  go  a-fishing  there.&quot;  .  .  .  Odd,  when  you  come  to  think  of  it,  that  in  popular  speech  the  word  &quot;old&quot;  is  used  as  a  semi-endear-  ment.  Not  so  endearing  when  you  have  to  nail  it  into  the  lonely  flesh.  He  went  on  listening  to  his  mind's  limping  trivi-  alities,  sheltering  against  the  moment  when  he  would  have  to  admit  that  the  past  was  draining  away  out  of  the  present,that  Oxenhope,  lovely  as  ever,  was  irrecoverable,  that  he  would  never  possess  the  sensation  of  Oxenhope  again.  He  had  grasped  at  the  substance,  and  the  lovely  shadow  was  lost.  For  suppose  it  were  possible  to  implement  that  sketchy  project  of  finding  a  house  in  the  valley  and  ending  his  days  there-what  would  hedo?  Take  him-  self  out  for  walks,  record  the  weather  in  a  notebook,  suck  a  rowanberry  in  autumn,  huddle  his  old  bones  through  the  long  winters,  wonder  if  he  would  smell  the  summer  heather  again  and  find  the  grass-of-Parnassus?  He  looked  at  his  watch.  It  had  taken  him  ninety  minutes  to  get  here.  Another  ninety  minutes  would  see  him  down.  He  would  get  into  thecar  and  drive  away  and  be  at  the  hotel  in  time  for  dinner.  As  incontrovertibly  as  she  had  said,     &quot;You'll  be  staying  here  for  the  pres-  ent,&quot;  the  loch  said,  &quot;You'll  be  away  by  tomorrow.&quot;  He  was  stirring  to  get  to  his  feet  when  he  knew,  as  an  animal  does,  that  he  was  being  watched;  and  like  an  animal,  he  became  motionless.  It  was  an  intense  scrutiny:  no  sheep  watches  one  so;  perhaps  it  was  a  weasel.  Slid-  ing  his  glance  in  the  direction  of  the  watcher,  he  saw  two  brilliant  pink  flowers  lighting  a  clump  of  heather:  two  outstanding  ears  with  the  sun  shining  through  them.  The  boy  had  concealed  himself  very  well,  but  his  ears  betrayed  him.  IfI  had  been  that  boy,  thought  William,  I  would  have  wished  the  unsuspecting  stranger  to  go  away  and  leave  me  to  trail  him.  And  after  a  decency-pause  he  did  his  part  in  the  transaction.  The  boy  had  more  strategy  than  to  follow  him  across  the  stretch  " b"of  burned  heather.  A  hare  starting  up  the  slope  showed  that  he  must  have  taken  a  low-  er  course,  parallel  to  William's.  Later,  a  couple  of  sheep  were  disturbed.  Later  still,  the  boy  began  to  run  at  full  tilt  down  the  remainder  of  the  hill-  side,  dislodging  stones,  swishing  through  bracken,  leaving  a  track  of  sound  behind  him.  When  William  was  down  and  ap-  proaching  his  car  along  the  grassed  road,  he  saw  the  boy  approach-  ing  it  from  the  opposite  direction.  Though  his  ears  were  no.  longer  translucent,  they  were  certainly  the  same  ears.  The  sun  had  left  the  valley,  and  the  snipe  flickered  like  shadows  over  the  green  of  the  damp  grass.  The  air  was  full  of  chill  and  poetry,  and  it  was  the  moment  to  put  on  an  overcoat.  Ignoring  the  boy,  who  was  now  standing  by  the  car  without  appearing  to  have  stopped  there,  William  leaned  in  and  released  the  lid  of  the  bonnet.  The  boy  started  back  as  he  raised  it,  and  exclaimed,  &quot;Mercy!&quot;  &quot;The  engine  is  at  the  back.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  aye.&quot;  &quot;Would  you  like  to  look  at  it?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cAVG.\xe2\x80\x9d  The  boy  examined  the  engine  care-  fully  but  without  passion.  Clearly,  his  proper  study  was  man.  &quot;Would  you  like  a  lift  down  the  valley?&quot;  &quot;I  wouldna  mind,&quot;  said  the  boy,  falling  into  the  trap.  &quot;Where  do  you  live?&quot;  &quot;At  Crosscleugh.&quot;  Having  by  his  countertrap  estab-  lished  that  William  was  not  a  total  stranger  to  the  valley,  the  boy  became  hospitable.  &quot;Yon's  Carra  Law,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yon's  Cold  Face.&quot;  William  looked  at  the  one  and  the  other  with  attention.  &quot;Yon's  Scraggie  Law.  There  was  a  man  once,  put  goats  on  it.  They  were  Spanish  goats.  They  didna  do.&quot;  &quot;One  couldn't  expect  it.&quot;  &quot;This  is  the  Aila  Burn,&quot;  the  boy  continued.  &quot;There's  a  pool  halfway  up  it,  no  bigger  than  a  barrel.  But  it's  deep.  Once  it  drowned  six  sheep.  There  was  a  snowstorm  and  they  fell  in.  Then  they  couldna  get  out.  The  burn  ran  red  with  blood-the  way  they  fought  each  other  with  their  feet.&quot;  William  had  heard  that  story  from  Jinnmie  Laidlaw.  &quot;What's  that  hill?&quot;  &quot;That's  just  Phawp  Law.&quot;  They  looked  at  each  other  stern-  ly.  &quot;There's  a  loch  away  up  there,&quot;  the  boy  said.  &quot;It's  called  the  Cat  Loch.&quot;  &quot;Why  is  it  called  the  Cat  Loch?&quot;  &quot;I  couldna  say.  Something  to  do  with  a  cat,  maybe.&quot;  A  vision  trans-  figured  his  face  as  the  sun  had  trans-  figured  his  ears.  &quot;There  was  a  man  once,  set  fire  to  it.  He  was  in  a  boat,  and  he  set  fire  to  the  water.  There  was  flames  coming  up  all  round  the  boat.  Like  a  gas  ring.&quot;  Oliphant,  interminably  rowing  about  the  loch  for  likely  places,  had  thrust  down  his  oar  to  check  the  boat's  move-  ment.  Bubbles  of  marsh  gas  rose  to  the  surface.  William  saw  himself  leaning  out  of  the  boat  and  touching  off  their  tiny  29     &quot;Look  at  it  this  way,  Son.  If  one  of  your  generation  should  ever  have  occasion  to  call  on  a  stockbroker,  he  would  want  to  call  on  one  of  his  own.&quot;  incandescence  with  a  lighted  match.  &quot;What  color  were  the  flames?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;They  were  blue.&quot;  &quot;Jump  in,&quot;  William  said  briskly,  and  turned  the  car.  When  the  surface  allowed,  he  drove  fast,  to  please  the  boy.  But  not  to  impress  him.  That  had  been  done  already.  He  put  theboy  down  at  Crosscleugh  (there  was  still  a  white  marble  dog  in  the  garden)  and  drove  on.  There  was  no  call  for  a  backward  glance,  for  an  exile's  fare-  well.  He  had  his  tenancy  in  legend.  He  was  secure. "