 b"Midsummer night  has  always  M  been  a  pagan  festival,  and  the  Christians  did  not  change  its  nature  by  naming  the  day  for  St.  John  the  Baptist.  In  Scandinavian  countries  the  sun  doesnot  set  and  people  behave  immorally.  In  villages  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  the  same  pagan  fires  are  still  burned,  but  they  are  called  &quot;les  feux  8t.-Jean'&quot;  or  &quot;Johannmisfeuer,&quot;  and  en-  gaged  couples  jump  over  the  embers  hand  in  hand  and  are  blessed  by  the  priest.  According  to  tradition  as  well  as  that  year's  lunar  calendar,  the  twenty-fourth  of  June  should  have  been  dry  and  clear  but  turned  out  to  be  steamy  and  hot.  Stuart  Fenwick  had  persuaded  a  tall  fat  girl  named  Valerie  to  come  and  see  the  trench  where  he  had  planted  peanuts.  (It  took  Fenwick  to  consider  this  a  form  of  courtship.)  Valerie  walked  before  him,  on  the  trodden  path  between  holiday  bungalows.  She  had  what  seemed  to  his  besotted  eyes  a  [REDACTED]  bearing,  and  was  majestic  in  flowered  slacks.  She  carried  a  dirty  fine-toothed  comb.  Two  and  even  three  times  a  day,  sit-  ting  cross-legged  on  a  plastic  raincoat  on  a  terrace  she  thought  was  private,  she  clutched  strands  of  ginger  hair  with  her  left  hand  and  combed  the  wrong  way,  from  the  ends  to  the  roots.  A  matchbox  transistor  strapped  to  her  wrist  relayed  Radio  Monte-Carlo  close  to  her  ear  as  she  combed.  Fenwick  imagined  the  horrible  music  as  a  sort  of  elastic,  now  plump,  now  taut.  He  was  supposed  to  be  going  about  his  busi-  ness,  which  was  the  running  ofa  holi-  day  colony  called  Vacances  Pax,  but  he  parted  the  cypress  hedge  to  look  down  on  the  combing  without  guilt  or  haste.  It  seemed  to  him  a  gentle  and  virgin-  al  rite,  like  weaving.  When  Valerie  gathered  the  locks  that  framed  her  brow,  made  a  fan  of  them,  and  placed  them  tenderly  over  the  rest,  allowing  no  stragglers,  no  nonsense,  it  was  the  final  gesture,  like  bitingoff  a  thread.  The  vacation  colony  was  a  collection  of  little  prefab  bungalows  going  down  the  terraced  side  of  an  arid  Maritime  Alp  just  behind  Grasse.  It  dated  from  the  early  nineteen-fifties,  when  the  &quot;One  Europe&quot;  idea  had  enormous  emotional  appeal,  and  it  was  thought  that  all  national  differences  would  be  dispersed  and  all  prejudices  effaced  if  a  few  people  believing  this  could  be  so  were  to  spend  their  holidays  together,  talking  and  exchanging  ideas  and  being  decent  and  kind.  Every  bungalow  flew  a  different  flag,  and  meals  were  taken  together-the  whole  colony.  On  fine  days  they  ate  out-of-doors,  and  when  it  rained  too  hard  for  the  cane  trellis  and  grapevines  that  were  supposed  to  pro-  tect  them,  they  moved  into  a  large  bare  bungalow  used  constantly  in  the  old  days  for  meetings  and  discussions-now  only  sometimes,  if  a  vacationer  wanted  to  show  slides  or  his  own  movies.  It  was  a  long  way  from  the  kitchen,  and  there  were  many  days  of  rain.  It  had  not  been  easy  to  get  Valerie  to  come  and  look  at  the  peanut  trench.  She  was  down  here  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED]  to  rest  and  recover  from  an  appendectomy-so  she  said.  Far  from  being  the  one  never  to  ask  questions,  Fenwick  askeda  great  many.  Her  [REDACTED]  headdress  covered  fragile  or  perhaps  selective  eardrums.  She  took  no  notice  of  his  questions.  &quot;Now,  that  is  interesting.&quot;  She  meant  a  drum-shaped  yellow  metal  box,  bear-  ing  KLM  tags  and  &quot;Perishable-Keep  Cool&quot;  in  large  letters.  Several  of  the  Dutch  members  of  the  vacation  colony  were  standing  in  a  circle  around  it.  The  drum  contained  herring,  which,  all  chipping  in,  they  had  ordered  from  home  as  a  treat.  Whoever  brought  it  here  had  deposited  it  in  the  middle  of  greenery  that  he  perhaps  took  to  be  weeds  but  that  happened  to  be  Fen-  wick's  moss  campion,  transplanted  with  devotion  from  Alpine  distance.  From  the  metal  drum  the  smell  of  fish  spread  out  in  widening  rings.  They  were  all  included-the  Dutch,  and  Fenwick,  and  Valerie,  and  Tom  Waterford,  who  had  strolled  up  after  them.  &quot;You'll  want  a  tin  opener,  to  start  with,&quot;  Fenwick  said.  It  turned  out  that  somebody  had  one.  Until  now,  they  had  simply  been  admir-  ing  the  box.  No  one  was  pushy;  no  one  wanted  to  be  first.  Valerie  gave  the  youngest  adult  a  grave  nod,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Iunderstand  and  approve.&quot;  This  man,  wearing  a  neat  mustache,  and  with  a  shirt  lightly  laid  over  his  sunburn,then  crouched  down  with  the  tin  opener  and  in  a  minute  bent  back  the  lid.  &quot;Ah,  herring,&quot;  he  said,  and  sighed,  and  they  all  looked  with  solemn  pleas-  ure  at  the  dark  brine.  &quot;Now,  that  is  interesting,&quot;  said  Val-  erie,  perhaps  to  Fenwick.  &quot;Because  everyherring  is  the  same  size,  and  I  think  there  must  be  layers.&quot;  &quot;A  plank!&quot;  said  the  manwho  had  done  the  opening.  He  should  have  been  a  naval  officer.  Instead,  he  was  dedi-  cated,  by  his  own  choice,  to  Shell  Oil  for  ever  and  ever.  He  eyed  Valerie,  but  received  no  more  encouragement.  " b"She  had  already  told  Fenwick  she  came  abroad  to  be  not  entertained  but  informed,  and  Fenwick  was  beginning  to  see  what  she  meant.  A  four-year-old  boy  ran  and  fetched  the  wrong  thing,  but  finally  a  large,  clean  plank  was  found.  The  man  with  Shell  Oil,  whom  Fenwick  now  hated  (he  also  hated  the  shape  of  the  drum,  thinking  Val-  erie  might  compare  it  with  his),  cleaned  several  of  the  fish  and  cut  them  into  fillets.  The  first  went  to  a  little  girl.  She  tipped  back  her  head,  held  the  fillet  between  two  fingers,  and  swallowed  like  a  seal.  Then  everyone  had  some,  as  fast  as  the  young  man  could  clean  them.  Presently,  their  tongues  swol-  len  and  thick,  the  Dutch  members  apologized  to  Valerie-the  herring  was  too  green.  They  fetched  thick  slices  of  fresh  bread  from  the  kitchen  and  made  sandwiches,  and  when  that  palled,  they  cut  up  onions  and  added  those  to  the  bread.  At  halfpast  twelve,  when  the  gong  sounded,  the  drum  was  nearly  empty,  ants  were  forming  battalions  to  carry  off  the  debris,  and  the  Dutch  dispersed  to  get  ready  for  lunch.  The  extraordinary  thing  was,  to  Fenwick,  that  they  would  eat;  they  would  all  of  them  eat  as  if  they  had  never  seen  food  in  their  lives.  They  came  here  because  it  was  cheap,  be-  cause  they  went  everywhere,  and  they  came  with  no  provision  for  their  fero-  cious  sunburns.  Their  presence  in  great  numbers  meant  a  large  meal  at  noon  with  boiled  potatoes.  Afterward,  they  would  drink  coffee  with  milk.  No  good  cook  would  stay.  Fenwick  should  have  presided  over  this  meal,  if  only  to  reg-  ister  the  complaints,  but  there  were  days  when  he  could  not  watch  one  more  fork  break  open  one  more  potato,  or  see  how  the  men  loosened  their  belts  or  pushed  back  from  the  table  with  a  groan.  Valerie,  reduced  to  one  meal  a  day  because  of  her  figure,  accepted  the  tribute  of  a  sandwich  without  onions  and  walked  on,  Fenwick  after  her.  He  had  never  had  Valerie  alone,  free  of  Shell  Oil,  or  Tom  Waterford,  or  the  children  who  placed  an  ear  to  the  wristwatch  radio,  their  faces  rapt.  _.  &quot;In  theold  days,&quot;  he  said,  desiring  not  only  her  company  but  her  atten-  tion,  &quot;Vacances  Paxwas  a  noble  try.  One  Europe,  no  frontiers.&quot;  He  was  sorry  he  had  started  this;  it  made  him  sound  ancient.  What  if  he  were  to  say  to  that  tower  of  red  hair,  &quot;This  is  the  twenty-fourth  of  June,  and  to-  night  I  am  going  to  build  a  bonfire&quot;?  Then,  to  see  if  she  was  listening,  &quot;And  burn  Tom  Waterford  as  an  offering  to  the  gods.&quot;  No,  she  might  choose  that  moment  to  hear,  and  then  tell  it. They  plodded  on,  slightly  out  of  breath  because  they  were  going  uphill.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  I  think?&quot;&quot;  said  Valerie,  stopping  and  stunning  him  with  her  full  consideration  and  her  soft  brown  eyes.  &quot;I  think  it  was  kind  of  those  people  to  share  their  fish  with  us.  I  can  think  ofa  lot  of  English  who  wouldn't  share&quot;-she  hesitated  as  if  consulting  a  guide  for  some  national  dish-&quot;their  chocolates.&quot;  &quot;You  would,  though,&quot;  he  said  dot-  ingly.  &quot;I  never  eat  anything  fattening,&quot;  she  said,  with  regret,  and  there  was  nothing  to  do  but  walk  on,  for  he  could  not  see  how  to  move  on  through  this  conversation,  which  seemed  en-  closed  by  some  special  Valerie-minded  fence.  To  court  a  woman  properly,  youhad  to  understand  not  only  her  feelings,  which  were  less  tender  than  he  had  been  led  to  think  in  his  youth,  but  also  her  mind.  Speculations  about  Valerie's  mind  occupied  him  agreeably  until  they  climbed  the  last  steep  path  and  stood  before  the  peanut  trench.  From  below,  a  man's  voice  said,  &quot;I  think  I'll  skip  lunch,&quot;  and  thena  crys-  talline  female  English  voice  said,  &quot;It's  filthy.&quot;  It  sounded  like  Tom  Water-  ford's  wife.  Valerie  had  reached  the  edge  of  the  trench  and  was  gazing  down,  waiting  to  be  informed.  Fen-  wick  took  a  step  nearer.  He  began  to  speak  distinctly  but  with  haste,  for  one  of  the  things  he  did  not  know  about  Valerie's  mind  was  its  limit  of     concentration.  &quot;First  I  had  the  idea,&quot;  Fenwick  said,  &quot;and  then,  you  see,  I  just  started  to  dig  the  trench.&quot;  PPEARING  at  the  herring  fes-  tival  at  the  last  minute,  just  be-  fore  the  tin  was  opened,  Tom  Water-  ford  was  given  a  sandwich  and  wan-  dered  away.  He  was  being  especially  polite,  for  the  day  before  he  had  over-  heard  an  extremely  unpleasant  thing  said  about  him  and  it  had  changed  his  feelings  toward  the  Dutch,  who  until  then  had  seemed  so  jolly,  He,  of  the  light-blue  eyes  and  hair  going  gray,  had  heard,  &quot;Good-looking  in  a  conven-  tional  English  way.  Yes,  they  look  as  if  they  might  be  intelligent,  but  it  is  only  an  appearance,  almost  a  joke.&quot;  This  is  what  he  had  heard  from  the  next  ter-  race,  and  of  course  knew  he  was  not  meant  to  overhear;  if  his  critics  were  speaking  English  it  was  only  because  it  was  the  common  language  of  this  place  and  season.  The  cross-section  of  Eu-  rope  he  and  his  wife  had  been  promised  had  turned  out  to  be  English-Ger-  man-Dutch.  What  an  impostor  Fen-  wick  was!  What  a  poseur!  Of  all  the  false  prophets,  those  who  mixed  broth-  erhood  and  politics  were  the  worst.  .  .  .  Waterford  was  for  one  or  the  other,  each  in  its  place.  Coming  here  had  been  an  idea  of  his  wife's.  They  tried  some-  thing  new  every  year.  The  &quot;European  cross-section&quot;  had  one  thing  in  com-  mon:  they  were  all  taking  a  June  holi-  day  to  escape  the  summer  rush.  That  " b"put  everyone  in  one  basket.  But  there  was  a  drawback,  for  it  meant  having  small  children  about,  under  school  age-the  Waterfords  had  expected  none  at  all.  At  times,  the  place  wasno  better  than  a  public  nursery.  If  Tom  hated  luncheon  it  was  because  ofthe  babies,  sitting  on  their  mothers'  laps,  pawing  the  food  on  their  mothers'  plates.  The  guests  ate  at  trestle  tables-  another  of  Fenwick's  ideas.  His  notions  of  One  Europe  all  seemed  to  be  con-  nected  with  food-everyone  eating  the  same  thing,  everyone  chewing.  Meg  Waterford  did  not  mind  the  trestle  tables;  what  she  minded  was  the  ab-  sence  of  nannies.  She  did  hate  chaos  so.  She  could  not  hide  her  feelings.  When  she  talked  about  juvenile  delinquency,  her  face  went  dry  as  paper.  Everything  retreated-all  the  humanity,  all  the  blood-and  only  something  that  looked  like  paper  was  left.  They  ought  to  be  birched,  flogged,  she  said.  'Tell  us  about  your  dogs  that  bite  everybody,&quot;  said  one  of  the  children  at  the  lunch  table.  That  had  to  be  trans-  lated,  of  course.  Meg  smiled,  and  repeated  with  clar-  ity,  as  if  asking  directions  in  a  for-  eign  capital,  &quot;Our-dogs-bite-  strangers.&quot;  &quot;But  only  strangers  who  come  to  the  back  door,&quot;  finished  the  child.  No  one  minded  translating.  Perhaps  every-  one,  even  the  grown  people,  wanted  to  hear  it.  Another  subject  they  liked  was  Tom,  who  was  a  magistrate  and  could  send  people  to  prison  for  up  to  six  months.  Really,  Meg  was  tired  of  ex-  plaining  why  it  was  that  a  man  with  no  legal  training  had  this  power.  To  say  &quot;no  knowledge  of  law,&quot;  as  Fenwick  once  had,  was  a  bit  thick,  for  being  a  magistrate  implied  knowing  something;  you  acquired  knowledge  with  the  first  casethat  came  before  you,  and  from  there  on  it  was  common  sense.  Tom  drew  near  now,  sandwich  in  hand.  He  was  wearing  a  red-and-white  striped  shirt  and,  she  thought,  a  quite  astonishing  burgundy  scarf.  He  had  said  something  about  driving  down  to  Grasse  to  get  something  for  the  twenty-  fourth  of  June  bonfire.  Matches?  What  else  could  it  be?  She  looked  once  more  at  this  scarf,  and  went  back  to  what  she  was  saying.  She  had  never  in  her  life  remarked  on  anyone's  clothes.  She  did  not  know  what  her  husband  owned.  From  time  to  time  a  tie  ora  handker-  chief  astonished  her,  that  was  all.  Tom  heard  Meg  speaking  about  &quot;Nennie.&quot;  It  was  &quot;Nannie,&quot;  but  that  was  the  way  Meg  spoke.  He  always  had  trouble  adjusting  his  ears  toa  woman's  voice,  even  his  wife's,  as  if  to  a  dialect.     He  never  had  that  trouble  with  men.  &quot;How  she  would  slap  our  hands!&quot;  said  Meg  joy-  ously,  and  imitated  the  gesture,  saying  &quot;Slep,  slep.&quot;  Nannie  was  an  ignorant,  an  uneducated  woman-Meg  thought  it  only  fair  to  describe  her  entirely-now  in  retirement.  She  spent  her  time  making  shoe-  trees  and  coat  hangers  for  her  former  charges.  &quot;I  save  up  bits  of  satin     and  velvet  for  her,&quot;  said  Meg,  with  a  tight  smile.  When  Tom  was  speaking  about  Meg,  he  often  said,  &quot;She's  worth  ten  of  me.&quot;  &quot;I  think  T'll  skip  lunch,&quot;  he  said  now.  &quot;I  don't  blame  you,&quot;  she  chanted,  loud  and  icelike.  &quot;It's  filthy.&quot;  VALERIE,  [REDACTED]-headed,  looked  down  at  the  peanut  trench.  In  wet  ground,  ordinary  unroasted  peanuts  (kind  bachelor  Fenwick  explained)  would  and  did  produce  roots  that  were  a  mass  of  dry  threads,  and  dark-green  leaves  that  spread  like  clover.  If  Valerie  liked  instructive  conversation  as  much  as  she  said  she  did,  Fenwick  was  serving  it  upon  a  plate.  He  had  now  given  up  the  hopes  and  dreams  of  years  ago,  he  said,  and  had  schemes  that  he  thought  of  as  vengefully  selfish-a  grapefruit  monopoly,  for  instance,  or  the  first  pineapple  plantation  in  Europe,  or  a  thriving  market  in  avocados.  His  earlier  hopes  had  failed  because  they  had  not  sprung  from  a  motive  sufficiently  sor-  did;  venality  equals  reality.  And  so  now  he  raised  spindly  avocado  plants  to  a  height  of  at  least  sixteen  inches  before  they  died.  &quot;One  could  make  a  fortune  in  limes,  too,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Limes  grown  in  Eu-  rope.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Money  can't  buy  love,&quot;  Valerie  re-  marked,  quoting  her  wrist  radio.  If  she  was  statinga  profound  conviction,  then  Fenwick  was  on  the  wrong  track.  Someone-a  singer-had  got  to  her  first,  and  told  her  that  love  was  to  be  praised  and  money  decried.  What  if  before  that  she  had  heard  a  song  called  &quot;Love  Can't  Buy  Money&quot;?  He  was  about  to  propose  it,  when  Valerie  said  placidly.  &quot;I  don't  think  the  food  here  is  filthy.  I  think  there's  just  too  much  of  it.&quot;  Either  her  mind  spread  and  darted  and  flew,  too  fast  for  him  to  follow,  or  it  tucked  its  head  under  its  wing  and     slept.  He  told  her,  nevertheless,  how  in  the  old  days  they  had  all  come  here  for  One  Europe  and  had  eaten  the  hated  garlic  in  a  spirit  approaching  good  will.  There  had  been  peaceful  demonstra-  tions.  Once,  the  French-Italian  fron-  tier  between  Menton  and  Ventimiglia  was  left  open  for  a  few  hours,  and  the  whole  Pax  colony  packed  up  and  drove  those  bumpy  miles  in  the  midget  rattly  cars  people  had  driven  when  Valerie  was  a  little  girl,  with  &quot;Holland  Believes  in  Europe&quot;  streaming  from  some,  and  any  number  of  Scandinavian  flags.  That  demonstration,  legendary  now,  was  confirmed  in  photos  Fenwick  kept  in  his  bungalow.  They  showed  the  cus-  toms  men  grinning  and  waving  while  all  the  French  sped  into  4974616c79  to  load  up  on  cheap  petrol  and  the  Italians  swarmed  the  other  way,  to  get  at  Fen-  wick  knew  not  what-perfume  and  ba-  nanas,  it  turned  out.  Nobody  believed  in  anything  now,  he  said.  The  pox-  plague  of  Mediterranean  restaurants  had  their  food  sent,  frozen,  from  dis-  tant  parts.  You  could  buy  the  same  salad  bowl  from  San  Remo  to  Mar-  seille.  Fenwick  received  all-Europe  products,  such  as  washingpowder,  with  instructions  in  four  languages,  and  in  each  of  the  four  languages  there  would  be  mistakes  in  spelling  and  grammar.  They  held  the  universe  lightly;  it  was  not  Fenwick's  fault.  He  perceived  that  he  had  talked  too  much;  he  seldom  saw  girls  anymore,  except  for  the  inevitable  English  pair,  one  a  case  of  sunstroke  and  one  of  food  poisoning,  and  no  longer  knew  how  to  talk  to  them.  And  here,  this  June,  was  his  regal  Valerie,  burned  toa  bright  pink  butnot  complaining.  She  waved  her  herring  sandwich,  having  stood  through  this  monologue,  and  perhaps  even  listened.  &quot;What's  that  thing?&quot;  &quot;A  datura.&quot;  &quot;Oh.&quot;  Munching  and  staring.  " b"      &quot;Not  a  date  palm.  Nothing  to  do  with  dates.&quot;  &quot;I  know.  I've  seen  a  whole  forest  of  date  palms  in  537061696e.  I've  forgotten  where.  I  did  see  it,  though,  on  a  tour.&quot;  &quot;If  you  sleep  under  a  datura  tree,&quot;  said  Fenwick,  proceeding  with  his  idea  of  courtship,  &quot;you  might  die.&quot;  &quot;Who  has?  Anyone?&quot;  &quot;Just  don't  do  it.&quot;  She  threw  the  rest  of  the  sandwich  away  and  licked  her  fingers.  She  said,  &quot;If  anyone's  going  down  to  Grasse  or  Cannes,  I  need  some  things  for  my  transistor.&quot;  &quot;I'll  take  you  down  a  bit  later,&quot;  said  Fenwick,  staring  at  her  arms.  &quot;I've  been  drying  wood  for  the  bonfire.  I  want  to  look  at  it  first.&quot;  The  peanut  trench  was  a  gathering  place,  a  watering  hole,  for  now  'Tom  Waterford  bobbed  up  and  said,  &quot;I'll  take  you,&quot;  and  the  last  Fenwick  saw  of  his  [REDACTED]  queen  was  her  flowered  stretch  pants  as  she  climbed  into  the  Waterfords'  Mini-Minor,  head  first.  I  i\xe2\x80\x98ENWICK  was  in  time  to  join  his  guests  for  coffee.  Between  the  straw  mat  and  the  edge  of  the  table  a  strip  of  hot  metal,  a  forgotten  spoon,  stung  his  wrist.  Meg  Waterford  was  talking  about  animals.  &quot;I  love  wild  animals  tigers,&quot;  she  said,  as  if  she  had  often  been  contradicted,  as  if  all  wild  animals  were  to  be  taken  away  from  her.  A  German  told  of  having  seen  on  tele-  vision  tons  of  strawberries  ruined  by  hail  somewhere,  and  farmers  crying.  Telling  it,  he  could  not  keep  his  voice  steady.  Fenwick,  mourning  his  beloved,  left  them-they  were  all  getting  on  so  well.  They  sounded  like  the  ingenious  all-Europe  programs  in  which  the  best  drummer  from  [REDACTED]  performs  from  a  studio  in  Copenhagen,  along  with  a  trumpet  from  Stuttgart,  an  elec-  tric  guitar  from  4974616c79,  and  [REDACTED]'s  finest  clarinet.  No  musician  can  hear  or  see  the  others,  for  each  is  in  his  home  city,  but  owing  to  the  competence  of  sound  technicians,  they  can  be  heard  all  playing  &quot;Dinah&quot;  at  the  same  time.  Fenwick  began  to  gather  together  wood  and  the  dried  herbs  and  plants  for  tonight's  fire;  he  could  still  believe  in  magic.  He  needed  seven  elements  to  make  the  fire  succeed,  but  they  were  woods  found  in  the  North.  He  would  have  to  settle  for  rosemary,  broom-  29     whatever  was  sweet-smelling  and  would  burn.  Valerie  might  be  induced  to  leap  over  the  ashes.  A  fertility  rite,  but  Fen-  wick  would  tell  her  it  was  for  peace,  harmony-anything  that  might  appeal  to  her  sleeping  or  soaring  mind.  The  thought  of  great  Valerie  leaping  cheered  him.  &quot;I  do  believe  you  are  some  sort  of  Druid,&quot;  Meg  called  to  him  from  the  table.  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  said  Fenwick,  &quot;only  a  bard.&quot;  He  began  piling  the  dried  herbs  with  some  perception  of  happiness,  all  the  while  listening  to  Meg  telling  the  oth-  ers  that  she  had  lost,  somewhere,  once,  long  ago,  in  a  place  she  could  not  re-  member,  a  really  valuable  ring. "