 b"WHAT  is  it?&quot;  The  older  brother,  who  is  seven,  narrows  his  pale-blue  eyes  and  judiciously  evaluates  the  sheet  of  paper.  &quot;This  is  a  house,&quot;  he  says,  and  places  his  finger  at  the  bottom  of  the  paper  where  there  is  nothing.  &quot;These  are  the  people  living  in  it.&quot;  His  squint,  critical  and  fierce,  makes  wrin-  kles  appear  beneath  his  faint  eyebrows,  and  the  younger  one  tries  to  copy  the  look,  hoping  it  will  endow  him  with  the  superior  vision  his  brother  apparently  has.  &quot;I  can't  see  anything.&quot;  &quot;Naturally.  It's  invisible.&quot;  Which  seems  to  remind  him  of  something.  He  takes  up  the  clean  pen,  dips  it  into  the  ink  eradicator,  and  holds  it  poised  above  the  paper.  He  is  kneeling  in  a  chair  at  his  father's  tall  roll-top  desk,  in  a  stream  of  afternoon  sunlight  that  bleaches  his  blond  hair  white  and  makes  his  angular  features  look  even  more  like  an  old  man's.  Before  he  lowers  the  pen,  he  does  a  sort  of  waddle  on  the  seat  of  the  chair,  settling  his  weight  down  to  seri-  ous  business.  The  younger  brother,  his  hands  locked  behind  his  head,  rests  both  el-  bows  on  the  writing  surface  of  the  desk.  He  looks  at  his  brother's  eyes,  at  the  downward  curve  of  his  heavy  lips,  and  then  at  a  leaf  of  reflected  sunlight  resting  in  the  hollow  of  his  cheek.  When  the  older  brother  is  absorbed  as  he  is  now  -when  he  practices  the  piano  by  himself  or  when  they  are  playing  duets,  and  especially  when  he  has  to  re-  hearse  for  a  reading-he  turns  ex-  tremely  pale,  as  if  a  part  of  him  were  bleeding  into  his  task.  The  two  of  them  have  been  initiated  young  into  the  theatre  by  their  parents  (both  of  whom  were  actors  at  one  time)  and  are  in  demand  as  performers  at  card  parties,  ladies'  club  meetings,  bazaars,  and  other  social  functions  in  this  North  Dakota  village,  where  they  are  looked  upon,  with  smiling  be-  nevolence,  as  freaks.  Some  of  their  readings,  taken  from  poets  such  as  Longfellow,  Tennyson,  Kipling,  and  Eugene  Field,  are  easy  to  memorize,  because  of  their  hobbyhorse  metrics.  But  there  arethe  long  monologues  in  prose,  by  obscure  or  anonymous  writers,  which  are  harder  to  cope  with:  the  lyrical  one  about  the  unhappy  child  whose  father  (so  his  mother  has  told  him)  is  away  on  a  business  trip  with  the  angels;  the  one  about  the  &quot;real  boy,&quot;  whose  freedom  has  recently  been  encroached  upon  (&quot;Aw,  shucks,  I  been  keeping  my  turtle  in  that  old  crib&quot;)  by  a  baby  sister;  or  the  one,  with  the  added  difficulty  of  dialect,  about  the  Swede  who  has  just  seen  his  first  base-  ball  game.  The  younger  brother  goes  at  his  readings  professionally-getting  the  emphasis  on  the  proper  words,  coloring  significant  phrases,  planning  pauses  for  breathing  and  for  effect-until  he's  subdued  the  whole  piece  and  has  it  sounding  the  way  he  wants  it  to  sound.  But  the  older  brother,  drawn  and  pale  as  he  recites,  gallops  through  both  trag-  edy  and  farce  with  the  same  hurt  look  in  his  eyes,  as  though  any  verbal  at-  tempt  at  what  he  felt  could  only  destroy  the  purity  of  his  feeling.  Now  he  is  drawing.  The  younger  one  sinks  to  the  floor,  detaching  him-  self  from  his  brother's  concentration,  and  becomes  aware  of  the  fragrance  of  raw  oak  the  open  desk  breathes  into  the  room,  so  overpowering  it  seems  to  him  he  is  leaning  against  the  enriched  air.  He  closes  his  eyes  and  can  distin-  guish  other  smells,  more  delicate,  more  elusive,  mingled  with  the  heavy  resin-  ous  smell;  they  seem  to  arrange  them-  selves  in  layers,  and  he  works  at  separat-  ing  each  one.  He  picks  out  a  sweetness  of  glue,  a  bitter  yellow  perfume  he  knows  his  mother  never  uses,  an  acetic  tang  of  ink,  a  hint  of  age  similar  to  the  dense,  oily  smell  that  slips  from  the  rif-  fled  pages  of  an  old  book.  ...  Having  almost  lost  his  balance,  he  quickly  opens  his  eyes  and  the  sunlit  room  startles  him.  He  looks  up  at  his  brother,  whose  lips  are  compressed  tightly  as  he  draws.  Realizing  that  the  purpose  of  the  pic-  ture  is  somewhat  beyond  him,  and  made  unhappy  by  this,  he  turns  away  and  studies  the  bottom  drawer  of  the  desk.  ,  From  the  swirling  oak  grain  he  iso-  lates  the  shape  of  an  archway,  a  swal-  low  in  flight,  a  rising  flame,  an  eye.  When  a  cloud  covers  the  sun,  he  no-  tices  how  the  dark  grain  moves  to  a  greater  depth,  the  silvery  highlights  shift,  and  the  colors  alter.  From  coppery  brown,  rose,  bronze,  and  gold,  he  sees  that  the  deep  grain  has  turned  to  dark  umber,  to  black.  He  rises  and  stands  at     43  his  brother's  side,  his  finger  twisting  the  dark  hair  above  hisear.  &quot;Why  don't  you  use  a  color  crayon?&quot;  he  asks.  &quot;Nunn?&quot;  Hardly  a  response,  he  is  so  absorbed.  &quot;So  I  could  see  it.&quot;  &quot;It  wouldn't  be  any  good  then.&quot;  &quot;How  come?&quot;  &quot;Because  then  you  could  see  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh  ...&quot;  the  younger  one  says,  un-  sure  whether  or  not  to  concede  to  this  logic.  He  watches  the  way  his  brother  moves  the  pen-in  quick  pinching  mo-  tions  of  his  fingers,  while  his  hand  and  arm  lie  absolutely  still-and  finds  him-  self,  though  detached  from  the  act,  participating  so  physically  in  it  that  a  cloak  of  sensation  covers  his  shoulders  and  then,  as  he  moves  to  speak,  slips  down  his  back.  &quot;How  do  you  Axow  it's  good?&quot;  &quot;I'm  doing  it.&quot;  &quot;But  you  can't  see  what  you're  doing.&quot;  Distracted  from  his  work,  a  veil  of  creation  clouding  his  eyes,  the  older  brother  looks  at  the  younger  one.  Being  as  patient  as  he  knows  how  to  be,  with  someone  so  young,  not  even  six,  he  say's,  &quot;Nobody  can  see  it.  It's  invisible.&quot;  &quot;That's  what  I  mean!&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  The  perfect  reply-am-  biguous  enough  to  stun  the  inquisitive  one  into  silence.  Having  done  so,  the  older  brother  looks  at  the  drawing  and  sees  that  it  is  completed.  He  puts  the  cap  on  the  bottle  of  ink  eradicator,  puts  it  into  a  pigeonhole  of  the  desk,  puts  the  pen  away,  and  places  the  blank  sheet  of  paper  on  the  pile  from  which.  he  took  it.  This  infuriates  the  younger  one.  &quot;What  are  you  doing?&quot;  &quot;I'm  finished.&quot;  &quot;Don't  put  it  there!  Dad'll  use  it.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter.  I  know  what  it  &gt;     is.  &quot;He'll  write  a  letter  and  send  it  away!&quot;  &quot;That's  O.K.  They  won't  see  it.&quot;  &quot;Make  it  so  they  can  see  it!&quot;  &quot;Then  he  wouldn't  send  it  to  any-  body.&quot;  &quot;Make  it  so  I  can  see  it!&quot;  &quot;If  you  could  see  it,  it  wouldn't  be  invisible.&quot;  &quot;Why  do  you  want  it  invisible!&quot;  &quot;Because  it's  mine.&quot;  T'  wo  brothers.  Exact  opposites,  they  are  exactly  as  two  brothers  should  be;  they  will  be  necessary  to  each  other  for  the  rest  of  their  lives.  The  one  with  a  passionate  need  to  know,  to  be  told,  what  everything  means,  the  other  al-  ready  knowing  that  whatever  means  the  most  is  invisible.  His  record  of  that  afternoon  is  the  one  you  should  have.  "