 b"I  WENT  up  to  Reno  from  San  I  Francisco  after  a  long  illness,  to  break  a  pattern  of  convalescence.  Most  people  go  there  for  amorous  or  marital  or  financial  reasons,  but  I  went  to  get  a  divorce  from  myself,  the  sick  or  malingering  self.  It  was  early  spring,  and  I  felt  like  a  refugee  from  the  clinics  and  the  test  tubes.  On  the  train,  which  I  took  in  Oak-  land,  acrossthe  Bay,  I  looked  with  deliberate  interest  from  my  window  as  the  land  and  water  slid  by.  I  liked  the  movement  of  heading  into  something  unknown,  although  the  cars  crowded  with  people  already  stripping  them-  selves  and  stretching  out  for  the  long  sit-up  ride  to  [REDACTED]  City  were  not  attractive.  Men  took  off  their  coats  and  shirts  and  hung  them  above  their  heads  on  the  luggage  racks  and  put  their  feet  out  into  the  aisles  and  turned  off  all  but  the  little  blue  night  lights,  so  that  from  the  end  of  the  car  it  looked  like  the  scene  of  a  large  acci-  dent,  with  bodies  sprawled  grotesquely  in  the  dimness.  In  the  seat  across  the  aisle  from  me,  an  old  woman  settled  into  her  feathers  like  a  tired  hen  and  then  rustled  slowly  through  a  paper  bag  until  she  found  a  hard  roll.  Hold-  ing  it  with  both  hands,  she  chewed  on  it  sleepily,  half  dozing.  I  staggered  through  the  cluttered  aisles  to  ~*  the  club  car,  and  af-  ter  a  Martini  I  went  on  to  the  diner.  I  ate  simply  and  well,  and  everything  tasted  mild-  ly  exhilarating,  the  way  it  should  when  a  person  stops  being  ill  and  sud-  denly  is  not  too  afraid  to  be  well  and  vertical  again.  Reno  came  along  fairly  soon  after  I  had  walked  back  through  the  tilting,  lurching  cars,  over  all  the  legs,  to  my  assigned  seat.  I  pulled  my  coat  and  makeup  box  off  the  rack,  and  we  slowed  down.  I  had  gone  through  Reno  once  before,  a  good  many  years  ago,  on  the  same  train,  per-  haps,  but  heading  West.  Then,  I  was  sitting  in  the  club  car  with  my  husband,  and  just  be-  fore  we  got  to  the  sta-  tion  a  kind  of  squeal  went  up  and  the  train  seemed  to  tip  to  the  left,  like  a  rowboat,  with  the  weight  of  people  peering  out  of  the  windows,  piling  overeach  other  to  see  the  bright  lights.  This  new  night,asI  climbed  out  of  the  train,  I  recalled  that  strange  feeling  of  excitement  of  so  long  ago  in  the  travellers  from  the  [REDACTED]  gazing  at  the  sinful  city  of  gambling  and  di-  vorce  and  high  life.  With  that  one  quick  look  up  the  main  street  of  the  little  town,  they  were  breathing  and  touch-  ing  vice,  and  without  any  danger  of  in-  fection.  On  one  side  of  the  train  had  been  darkness,  empty  and  unheeded,  and  on  the  other,  for  a  quick  flash-like  a  peepshow-was  a  glimpse  of  a  gaud-  ily  lighted  street  banked  with  neon  and  arched  by  an  electric  sign.  It  was  dra-  matic,  so  quick  a  brightness  after  the  long  rocking  ride  across  plains  and  des-  erts  and  through  mountain  gorges.  As  I  got  off  the  train,  I  wondered  if  it  was  still  that  way.  Out  in  the  cold  gray  station,  it  was  complicated  to  get  two  suitcases  that  had  been  checked  into  the  baggage  car  in  [REDACTED].  A  polite  sleepy  porter  turned  up  finally  and  managed  it  for  me,  in  spite  of  locked  doors  and  dark  rooms  and  a  general  air  of  disuse  about  the  place.  He  and  I  seemed  to  be  the  &quot;W  elcome  43  only  people  who  still  believed  this  silent  building  was  arailroad  station.  He  carried  my  things  out  to  the  empty  street  and  put  them  beside  a  lamppost.  &quot;You  be  all  right  here,&quot;  he  said  gently.  &quot;I  call  for  a  cab.  Take  some  time  but  be  along.&quot;  I  stood  there  passively  under  the  thin  light.  The  air,  too,  was  thin,  and  cold.  I  felt  doggedly  detached  about  the  whole  dreamlike  procedure,  and  only  an  Olympian  curiosity  when  two  very  thin  men,  dressed  in  shabby,  decent  clothes,  came  silently  down  the  street  towardme,  pulling  along  a  baby  coyote  on  a  piece  of  string.  &quot;Hi  there,&quot;  one  said  in  a  meek  voice.  &quot;You  ever  see  a  real  baby  coyote?&quot;  His  companion  leaned  over,  miming,  to  pat  the  little  animal,  which  was  sitting  down  as  if  it  had  walked  a  long  way,  and  the  talking  one  said,  on  cue,  &quot;He's  real  nice.  Tame  as  a  kitten.&quot;  &quot;How  old  is  he?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Maybe  couple  weeks.  You  want  him?  Five  bucks.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Not  tonight.  No,  not  now,&quot;  I  said,  and  without  even  shrugging-almost  without  a  sound-the  two  men  went  up  the  hollow  street  again  with  the  little  wild  puppy  trotting  behind  them  at  the  end  of  the  piece  of  string.  I  was  not  thinking  one  way  or  an-   " b"other,  about  Time  or  anything  else,  but  a  cab  did  come,  although  I  never  saw  the  sleepy  porter  again.  On  the  way  to  the  hotel  at  which  I  had  made  a  reservation,  suddenly  there  was  a  flash  of  almost  audible  light,  and,  sure  enough,  I  had  not  forgotten  the  street  of  neon  and  thick  gaudy  signs  with  the  arch  blazing  over  it.  I  was  in  Reno,  symbol  of  sin,  of  quick  divorce  and  quicker  marriage,  of  unlicensed  license,  and  the  hotel  lobby  seemed  a  normal  projection  of  the  flash-by  of  the  street  from  that  earlier  train  window  -a  glitter  and  glow  under  the  low  ceiling,  with  hundreds  of  slot  machines  crash-  ing  and  flickering  and  ringing  bells,  and  chaotic  decorations  twirling  in  the  air  to  say  that  even  if  Time  meant  nothing,  Easter  and  daffodils  and  bun-  nies  were  next  on  the  calendar.  There  were  rows  of  tables  for  roulette  and  whatever  other  games  are  played  on  tables,  and  the  people  around  them  were  mute-an  old  Ernst  Lu-  bitsch  movie  of  Monte  Carlo.  It  was  the  slot  machines  that  seemed  alive-  certainly  more  alive  than  the  unsmiling  men  and  women  who  stood  woodenly  in  front  of  them,  not  even  blinking  or  twitching  when  lights  flashed  for  a  jackpot.  Plump  little  cash  girls  packed  into  white  satin  shirts  and  black  slacks  moved  through  the  voiceless  crowds,  changing  bills  into  dollars,  dollars  into  nickels.  Very  loud  mariachi  music  blanketed  us  raggedly.  In  one  corner,  hidden,  was  the  hotel  desk.  A  trim  young  man  in  tight  fron-  tier  pants  and  high-hecled  boots  carried  my  bags  there,  and  then,  when  I  had  registered,  he  crowded  me  into  a  mi-  nuscule  elevator  and  we  shot  past  a  few  floors  smoothly.  In  the  room,  he  did  a  kind  of  precision  dance  of  turning  on  lights,  flicking  his  eyes  here  and  there  over  ashtrays  and  such,  showing  me  how  to  adjust  the  heat,  taking  the  tip.  At  the  door,  he  smiled  warmly  and  drawled,  &quot;Y'all  have  fun,  now.&quot;  The  room  was  from  a  hyped-up  motel,  somewhat  elegant.  I  sniffed  it  like  a  cat,  and  was  there.  In  the  bath-  room  were  packets  of  aspirin  and  a  hangover  remedy,  and  courtesy  sam-  ples  of  hand  lotion,  and  free  shoe  pol-  ishers.  The  drinking  glasses  and  the  toilet  seat  and  even  the  telephone  by  the  bed  were  marked  &quot;Sterilized  for  your  protection,&quot;  and  there  was  a  little  package  of  buttons  and  threaded  nee-  dles  on  the  television  set,  One  wall  of  the  room  was  glass,  and,  below  the  balcony  outside,  the  Truckee  River  rushed  backward  and  ducks  fought  the  high  water  and  clutched  at  the  banks  in  the  colored,  shifting  lights  from  the  lobby,  a  few  floors  beneath  me.  I  began  to  feel  more  like  a  person.  Iflicked  the  TV  on  and  off,  and  then  the  radio  on  and  off.  I  read  through  all  the  folders  on  the  desk  about  what  was  at  my  fingertips-my  beck  and  call-and  what  I  could  eat  in  the  vari-  ous  dining  places  and  when,  and  mostly  what  I  could  drink.  For  an  odd  sum  like  $7.84,  or  perhaps  $14.23,  I  could  have  almost  instantly  a  hospitality  kit  containing  fifths  each  of  vodka,  Scotch,  bourbon,  rye,  gin,  ice,  and  my  choice  of  setups,  brought  to  my  room  by  a  smiling  cowboy.  It  seemed  ridiculous  to  me  topass  up  the  onechance  of  my  life  to  take  a  long  cool  look  at  the  ground  floor  of  this  place.  I  felt  that  my  vision  was  ready,  cleared  by  illness.  I  would  never  again,  if  I  lived  here  a  thousand  nights  instead  of  one,  be  able  to  see  it  as  I  would  this  night.  I  called  for  room  service.  The  same  bellboy  who  had  shown  me  to  my  room  came,  almost  as  if  he  had  been  outside  the  door.  He  was  neat-  ly  strong,  and  short  in  spite  of  his  heels,  and  as  impersonal  as  a  geranium  in  a  pot.  &quot;Y'all  want  me?&quot;  His  smile  was  a  really  nice  one.  I  asked  him  if  he  thought  it  would  be  all  right  if  I  went  downstairs  by  myself,  to  look  around.  He  figured  me  financially,  logisti-  cally,  alcoholically,  sexually,  in  one quick  look.  Ipassed.  &quot;Y'all's  safer  here  than  in  your  own  home,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Once  you  get  accustomed,  this  place  is  real  fun,  and  no  harm  done.  They  keep  an  eye  on  things  downstairs.  Go  right  ahead.&quot;  I  said,  like  a  docile  child,  &quot;'Thank  you  very  much.  I  really  didn't  want  anything  else.&quot;  He  beamed  kindly  at  me  and  said,  &quot;Just  go  right  on  down,&quot;  and  closed  the  door  on  a  silhouette  of  slim  solid  hips  and  tiny  gleaming  boots.  Back  in  the  incredible  lobby,  I  felt  stiff  and  shy.  I  wandered  from  one  aisle  of  slot  machines  to  the  next,  try-  ing  not  to  stare  too  much,  not  to  gog-  gle  as  the  automatic  people  pulled  at  the  handles  and  fed  in  coins  and  then  did  or  did  not  scoop  up  more  coins  and  feed  them  back  again.  I  told  myself  that  I  was  invisible,  but  very  soon  I  knew  that  I  was  not.  I  was  being  watched  covertly  by  the  small  plump  girls  wear-  ing  sailor  caps  marked  &quot;CASH,&quot;  and  by  the  tellers  on  their  raised  platforms,  and  by  the  nonchalant  plainclothesmen  chatting  here  and  there.  Probably  the  cowboy  had  told  them  that  I  was  loose  in  the  place-not  because  I  was  going  to  drink  too  much  or  even  playtoo  much  or  pick  up  a  man  or  a  girl  but  because  I  was  a  strange  one,  not  yet  identifiable.  I  was  not  dressed  like  the  rest,  basically.  I  was  alone.  I  might  perhaps  be  a  suicide?  I  had  no  percep-  tible  rendezvous  arranged,  in  or  out  of  the  hotel,  so  if  I  was  a  go-between,  be-  tween  what  and  what?  The  eyes  were  on  me.  I  decided  to  go  right  on  drifting,  and  gradually  I  knew  where  the  rest  rooms  were  (they  were  large  and  comfortable,  and  a  woman  in  Levis  and  a  shabby  catskin  coat  was  writing  postcards  in  German  script),  and  where  the  coffee  shop  kept  open  twenty-four  hours  a  day,  and  where  a  boy  in  a  high  white  bonnet  " b'made  hot  roast-beef  sandwiches  twenty-  four  hours  a  day  for  the  gamblers,  who  forgot  whether  it  was  time  for  what-breakfastlunch-  dinner.  There  were  people  eating  orange-  juice-coffee-poach  ed-  eggs-on-toast,  with  the  preoccupied  shaving-lo-  tion  look  of  suburban  commuters  at  7:22  [REDACTED]  At  the  bar,  to  which  the  main  aisle  through  the  slot  ma-  chines  led,  people  were  meeting  for  a  cocktail,  the  women  looking  very  wives-of-subur-  ban-commuters  in  short  brocade  sheaths  and  pearls  and  mink  scarves,  and  it  was  long  after  midnight  instead  of  7:22  a.m.  Behind  the  bar  was  a  small  stage,  some-  what  above  the  bottles,  and  first  there  was  the  blasty  mariachi  band  I  had  heard  when  I  came  into  the  hotel  and  then,  with  a  special  blink  and  blare,  there  was  a  small  jazz  combo  of  four  men,  with  a  girl  singer.  They  were  Navajo  Indians,  with  an  impervious  disdain  behind  their  show-biz  smiles  but  dressed  snappily  and  playing  fairly  well.  Feeling  weary,  I  sat  down  at  one  of  the  small  tables  between  the  active  part  of  the  lobby  and  the  bar.  Around  me  were  several  other  single  men  and  women,  but  there  did  not  seem  to  be  any  open  interest  in  pickups.  I  ordered  a  double  Gibson  from  the  motherly  waitress.  I  felt  curious  about  how  a  drink  which  I  consider  an  ap\xc3\xa9ritif  would  taste  at  that  incongruous  hour,  in  that  unbelievable  place,  with  nomeal  to  follow.  It  was  good,  and  I  enjoyed  it  slowly.  The  m.c.  ofthe  Navajo  band  was  clumsy  about  being  Indian,  and  angry.  He  made  one  too  many  jokes  about  it,  and  told  one  too  many  too  long  stories,  and  gradually  I  realized  that  in  the  aisle  leading  to  the  bar  two  groups  of  six  or  eight  young  men  had  gathered,  not  one-arming  but  just  standing  there.  They  were  blond  and  sharply  dressed,  and  they  were  getting  ready  to  make  trouble  with  the  increasingly  racist  man  at  the  mike-prearranged  trouble.  The  men  in  the  combo  were  watching,  as  they  beat  and  tootled,  and  the  girl,  who  was  perhaps  more  Mexican  than  Indi-  an,  and  almost  white-skinned,  was  watching,  too,  from  behind  her  trite,  sexy  singing.  All  the  eyes  that  I  had  felt  on  me  before  were  fastened  now  on  the  two  groups  of  boys  gathered  closer  and  closer  to  the  bar,  the  bottles,  the  stage.  The  m.c.  told  another  barely  funny  story  of  how  the  Indian  would  be  here  to  live  on  his  land  again  after  the  atomic  bomb  had  taken  careof  the  white  man,  and  the  boys  slid  on  in-  and  with  them,  as  gently  as  the  flanges  of  an  oyster  or  the  spreading  hood  of  a  cobra,  the  security  men  in  their  well-  tailored  business  suits  moved  in,  and  the  boys,  tense  with  racial  hatred  and  envy  and  whatever  else  it  may  have  been,  moved  on  out  and  away.  The  music  kept  on,  but  the  young  sweating  m.c.  mopped  his  face  and  let  the  girl  singer  take  over  and  handle  the  act,  and  disappeared.  The  people  at  the  bar  and  the  little  tables  kept  on  drinking.  I  ordered  a  single  Gibson,  and  felt  that  I  had  just  taken  the  last  stepto  safety  from  a  plank  stretched  across  boiling  oil.  The  mariachi  players  came  grinning  onstage,  and  a  fat  ce-  strado  yelped  and  whimpered  through  &quot;Guadalajara.&quot;  It  was  time  for  me  to  go.  PST  AIRS,  I  was  painfully  hun-  gry.  The  discreet  meal  on  the  train  was  a  century  behind  me.  The foldedcards  and  menus  on  the  formica  desk  said  I  could  orderalmost  any  dish  at  almost  any  time,  and  by  now  I  knew  that  downstairs  day  and  night  did  not  mean  what  I  had  always  thought.  Why  should  I  not  call  room  service  and  ask  for  scrambled  eggs  and  a  glass  of  milk,  abottle  of  beer,  a  split  of  champagne,  or  perhaps  a  hospitality  kit?  If  I  poured  some  milk  or  beer  or  wine-or  even  a  double  Gibson-into  a  saucer,  maybe  the  litle  wild  dog  would  come  and  lap  it  up.  Far  below  the  balcony,  the  Truckee  still  flowed  backward,  uphill.  There  wereno  ducks  now,  clutching  at  the  banks  against  the  swift  water.  I  adjusted  the  heat,  turned  the  TV  and  the  radio  on  and  then  off,  and  decided  that  I  did  not  want  to  see  the  smiling  cowboy  again,  ever,  even  bringing  me  nourishment  with  his  good  smile.  The  sun  would  be  along  soon,  and  meanwhile  I  knew  that  I  was  not  ill  anymore.  The  divorce  had  been  granted.  I  had  complete  custody  of  myself.'