 b"IT  seemed  to  her  impossible,  an  occasion  for  a  giggle,  that  you  could,  here  in  mid-twentieth  century,  enter  a  medieval  wall  through  a  tiny  gate,  having  pulled  an  iron  chain  to  jangle  a  bell  high  above  you,  be  shout-  ed  at  hoarsely  to  &quot;Viem,  viem!,&quot;  and,  having  climbed  a  twisting  narrow  flight  that  smelled  of  Roman  masonry-  chilly  the  vear  round,  exactly  as  it  must  have  been  in  Byron's  day-confront  across  the  threshold  the  face  of  a  boy  you  went  to  school  with  back  in  Ar-  kansas.  Only  it  was  a  little  more  com-  plex  than  that,  Sara  thought  that  it  was  useless  coincidence  to  have  remem-  bered  Gowan  Palmer  from  school;  to  all  present  purposes,  he  was  just  a  nice  man  she  and  her  husband  had  met  a  year  ago  at  a  party  here  in  4974616c79.  As  for  those  bygone  days,  he  seemed  to  (CM/ell!\xc2\xbb  like  Sara  and  Paul  in  spite  of  having  known  them  forever,  and  none  of  them  had  the  bad  taste  of  people  who  remi-  nisce.  She  learned  by  way  of  somebody  else  that  he  had  been  married  to  a  New  York  girl  she  would  probably  never  see,  just  as  she  discovered  that  it  was  no  romantic  notion  that  had  lured  him  to  takea  damp  three  rooms  in  the  Roman  wall  near  the  Pincio  but  a  leftover  lease  from  a  fellow-artist,  now  in  [REDACTED],  who  wanted  the  place  occupied  even  at  a  loss.  As  for  the  problems  he  was  now  drifting  into-financial,  emotional,  ar-  tistic,  and  otherwise-she  would  bet  she  was  far  more  aware  of  them  than  he.  She  was  always  hearing  things  against  him  now,  and  this,  in  view  of  her  and  Paul's  conviction  that  his  work  was  about  to  break  over  into  the  big-    name  cluster,  seemed  particularly  a  shame.  He  hadhad  for  some  months  the  air  and  countenance  of  an  artist  considered  the  best  by  the  best.  Sara  had  got  the  impression  that  people-  who-knew,  the  experts,  had  so  far  spoken  of  his  work  only  among  them-  selves  but  would  let  the  outside  world  in  on  it  whenever  they  happened  to  think  of  it.  As  this,  so  far  as  she  could  see,  was  the  only  way  in  which  a  lay  personcould  know  about  excellence  in  modern  art,  she  had  no  complaints  about  it  and  rejoiced  in  Gowan's  right  to  it.  In  his  studio  now,  out  of  the  sun,  she  shivered  and  put  on  her  jacket,  while  Gowan  shook  iron  filings  off  a  cushion  and  offered  to  heat  up  the  espresso.  He  had  been  on  a  sculpture  kick,  as  he  called  it,  during  the  winter  months,  and  she  found  herself  angling  to  talk  to  him  through  a  forest  of  elon-  gated  shapes  in  heavily  beaten  iron.  &quot;Let's  go  up  in  the  sun,&quot;  she  urged.  &quot;Don't  you  know  it's  warm?  You  just  sit  in  here  and  work  so  much  I  bet  you  don't  even  know  it's  spring!&quot;  &quot;Not  true.  Somebody  told  me  yester-  day  that  it  was  spring.  I'm  not  so  helpless  as  you  think.&quot;  &quot;Ialways  think  you're  going  to  get  pneumonia  in  this  place.  I  see  myself  carrying  hot  minestrone  up  through  the  wall  in  February.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it  can  get  warm  enough.  It's  just  that  the  traffic  is  so  bad.  That's  the  real  reason  I  never  entertain.  At  first,  I  felt  I  was  on  an  island,  with  every-  thing  in  4974616c79  streaming  past  all  day,  and  that  at  night  I  went  under  with  it.  The  streetcars  poured  across  my  face,  all  iron  wheels  and  clanging.  Lambret-  tas  snorted  into  my  dreams.  Now  I  sleep  and  work  mainly  on  the  park  side,  where  there's  less  noise,  but  anyway  I  hardly  hear  it  anymore.  Some  part  of  your  brainblocks  out,  I  think.  Here.&quot;  He  poured  out  coffee  in  tiny  cups.  &quot;Let's  go  upstairs.&quot;  Above,  they  sat  between  the  blunt  teeth  of  masonry  on  a  pair  of  rickety  chairs  and  warmed  their  faces  in  the  sun,  sipping  coffee.  &quot;Who  told  you  yesterday  that  it  was  spring?&quot;  She  smiled,  gently  inquisitive.  &quot;Francesca,  of  course.  She  drove  by  in  the  afternoon.&quot;  &quot;Oh  dear,  maybe  she's  coming  up  today,  too.&quot;  'Today  she's  in  Viterbo,  guiding  an  art  photographer  around.&quot;  &quot;Our  Italian  career  girl.&quot;  'She's  doing  well.  Of  course,  she  doesn't  have  to,  with  three  villas  and  a  palazzo.&quot;  It  sounds  like  the  perfect  setup  for  " b" you,  Sara  restrained  herself  from  saying.  For  once  start-  ed-a  drink  or  two  would  have  done  the  trick-she  might  have  continued,  It  would  be  a  world  better  for  your  money-or  should  we  just  say  your  backing?-to  come  from  a  source  like  Francesca's  family,  who  will  never  talk  about  it,  than  for  you  to  go  on  borrowing  from  any  number  of  people.  You  realize  that  this  reputation  you  have  gotten  for  living  so  lamely  is  setting  people  against  you.  In  addition,  Francesca's  uncle  is  after  all  Mario  Negalesco,  who  has  certainly  written  enough  art  criticism  to  write  something  about  you.  He  might  just  give  you  the  one  boost  you  need.  Your  whole  life,  as  we  see  it,  your  career  and  all,  is  hanging  on  the  brink  of  be-  ing  what  it  ought  to  be,  just  what  you've  deserved  all  along.  Can't  you  see  it?&quot;  And  of  course  everyone,  in-  cluding  Francesca,  thinks  you've  every  reason  to  make  a  serious  relationship  with  her.  There's  even  love  to  be  thrown  in,  along  with  all  the  rest-  even  love!  &quot;She  laughs  at  all  that  Prepotente  stuff,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;One  of  the  villas  has  cows  in  it,  and  all  thefurniture  in  the  palace  is  tied  together  with  string.  Le  splendida  famiglia,  la  principessa  Ne-  galesco.&quot;  But  Sara  noted  that  he  broke  into  a  smile  he  couldn't  help-a  good  sign.  &quot;Have  you  met  her  uncle?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;The  critic:  Oh,  he's  beenby  a  couple  of  times.  We  get  on  O.K.  He's  a  bit  too  Milanese  for  me.&quot;  There  was  a  snarl  of  traffic  below,  intensifying  to  a  wrangle  of  indecipher-  able  noise  from  which,  it  seemed,  no  vehicle,  however  two-wheeled  and  tiny,  could  escape.  'They  lookedover  the  wall.  He  laughed  outloud  at  the  jam,  which  seemed  to  have  gathered  around  two  children  who  had  wandered  un-  escorted  into  the  middle  of  the  street,  where  they  were  both  still  standing,  unhurt,  one  wailing,  the  other  bewil-  dered  and  pale.  Now  they  were  being  liberated,  handed  out  over  the  fenders  of  cars  and  the  heads  of  Vespa  riders,  swung  high  by  smiling  strangers.  An  elderly  Mercedes  backed,  having  caught  its  bumper  in  the  fender  of  a  shiny  new  Fiat,  which,  in  the  silence  that  had  inexplicably  fallen,  tore  slowly  open  like  a  tin  can.  About  fifty  people  had  gathered  on  the  sidewalk,  forming  a  willing  audience,  from  which  there  now  ascended  a  chorus  of  groans.  The  driver  came  boiling  up  out  of  the  Fiat,  signalling  the  start  of  Act  II.  &quot;I  often  sit  here  and  watch  the  show,&quot;  said  Gowan,  leaning  near  her  in  the  sun.  He  was  wearing  a  blue  blazer,  his  shirt  open  at  the  neck.  She  thought  he  must  have  grown  his  beard  just  for  warmth;  it  was  short  and  flat,  like  the  pelt  of  a  neat  animal.  He  was  the  one  bearded  artist  she  could  abide.  &quot;'The  trouble  is  we  can't  talk  here,&quot;  he  remarked.  HEY  presently  went  for  a  walk  in  the  park  and,  gravitating  al-  ways  downward,  came  to  the  jumping  ring  where  horses  could  be  seen  daily,  exercising.  'They  weregood  horses,  privately  owned,  and  stabled  in  another  part  of  the  park.  Today  a  groom  was  jumping  a  lively  young  chestnut  geld-  ing,  richly  maned  and  needing  a  work-  out.  He  flung  his  head  repeatedly  against  the  bit.  A  scarlet  ribbon  had  been  plaited  into  his  forelock.  The  spring  warmth  came  up  out  of  the  ground  at  them,  and  it  was  quiet  here;  they  could  hear  the  soft  thudding  of  the  hoofs  on  the  ground,  the  cry  of  the  rider  (&quot;Hup!&quot;)  when  the  horse  took  the  jumps,  the  occasional  whack  and  ring  of  wood  as  a  rail  came  down.  Al-  most  beyond  the  range  of  their  hearing  the  city  rumbled  and  echoed.  &quot;Magnificent  horse,&quot;  said  Gowan.  &quot;L'n  cavallo  magnifico.&quot;     Indeed,  the  horse-his  nervousness,  his  beauty,the  swing  of  his  neck,  the  red  ribbon  between  his  narrow,  sensitive  ears,  the  glint  and  powerful  setting  of  his  brightly  shod  hoofs-had  almost  succeeded  in  mesmerizing  them  both.  &quot;You  came  down  here  because  you  wanted  to  talk,&quot;  she  reminded  him.  &quot;Why  don't  we  walk  over  that  way?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  didn't  want  to  talk  about  anything.  Do  you?&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said,  hesitating  with  a  little  laugh.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  &quot;Look  here,  Sara,&quot;  he  said,  picking  up  a  stone  and  hurling  it  out  across  the  road,  just  the  way  he  might  have  done,  she  suddenly  thought,  when  he  was  a  boy  back  at  that  school.  &quot;Look,  Sara.  Something's  onyour  mind.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  you're  right.  It's  just  that  Paul  and  I-well,  we've  been  a  little  worried  about  you.&quot;  &quot;Worried  about  [REDACTED];  He  came  to  a  full  stop.  &quot;Well,  we  think-I  don't  know  how  to  put  it-that  maybe  you  don't  see  yourself  quite  in  perspective  here  in  4974616c79,  that  maybe  you  don't  see-  many  people  don't;  I  know  from  time  to  timeZ  don't-quite  what's  going  on  with  you,  the  way  friends  at  a  little  distance  may  be  able  to.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  I  don't  hear  the  gossip,&quot;  he  said,  short-circuiting  her.  &quot;What  a  good  thing  I've  got  in  Francesca,  if  only  I  knew  how  to  take  advantage  of  it.&quot;  She  felt  the  rug  pulled  out  from  under  her.  &quot;Something  like  that-only  I  wouldn't  put  it  that  way.  It  just  " b"seemed  to  us  that  maybe  you  were  at  more  ofa  crossroads  than  you  realized.  I  know  that  this  has  happened  to  Paul,  in  industry,  and  people  speaking  up,  saying  a  word,  has  meant  all  the  dif-  ference  to  him.&quot;  &quot;And  of  course  ke  never  owed  any-  body  any  money,&quot;  said  Gowan.  She  felt  herself  getting  angry.  &quot;We've  always,  always,  told  you,  let  you  know-&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  know.  O.K.,  someday  I'll  fool  you,  close  in  on  your  kind-  ness....&quot;  He  came  to  a  halt,  occa-  sioned  by  a  drop  in  the  road  and  a  line  of  shadow  from  a  rise  of  hill,  which  they  would  in  another  moment  have  entered.  &quot;For  God's  sake,  let's  stay  in  the  sun.&quot;  He  turned  her  around  and  walked  them  back  to  the  horse  ring.  As  they  reached  the  rail,  the  horse  swiftly  cleared  a  low  jump,  front  hoofs  matched  and  proud,  and,  gallop-  ing  straight  at  them,  swerved  off  when  almost  dangerously  near,  flinging  dirt  (hard  as  a  bullet,  she  thought,  startled)  against  her  cheek.  &quot;God,  I  could  stand  here  all  day,&quot;  said  Gowan,  glancing  at  his  watch.  &quot;Lunch  appointment;  too  bad.  I'll  tell  you  who  it's  with,&quot;  he  said,  teasing  her,  making  it  up,  or  trying  to,  for  their  near  quarrel.  &quot;It's  with  a  man  who  wants  to  arrange  for  me  to  take  some  of  his  English  students  during  the  summer.  He  has  quite  a  list  of  them  and  is  going  back  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  couple  of  months.&quot;  &quot;Oh.&quot;  Again  she  broke  off  saying  what  she  wanted  to.  Obviously,  if  he  started  doing  things  like  this,  he  was  now  destined  to  drift  down  into  that  indeterminate  sediment  of  people  who  simply  hung  on  in  4974616c79,  trying  any  and  everything,  living  barely,  living  some  way,  year  in  and  year  out,  until  not  even  they  could  remember  quite  why  they  had  come  here  in  the  first  place.  &quot;But  it's  none  of  my  business,&quot;  she  said  to  herself.  And  she  must  have  walked  like  that  and  held  her  head  like  that  and  kept  silentlike  that,  for  he  said  with  an  amused  air,  &quot;It's  really  none  of  your  business,  is  it?&quot;  She  would  have  left  him  right  then,  except  they  had  almost  regained  the  wall  and  she  remembered  that  she  had  left  her  gloves  and  scarf  in  his  studio  above.  She  was  angry  enough  to  won-  der  if  she  would  ever  really  want  to  see  him  again  at  all,  she  and  Paul  having  been,  all  this  time,  friends,  true  friends,  forbearing  friends,  to  Gowan  Palmer.  &quot;Oh,  I'll  get  them  for  you,&quot;  he  of-  fered  when  she  mentioned  going  up,  and  ran  up  the  stairs,  leaving  her  on  the  narrow  flight  in  the  very  middle  of  the  wall-like  something  in  a  Poe  story,  she  thought,  sealed  up  in  the  masonry.  He  soon  returned,  laid  the  scarf  and  gloves  in  her  hand,  and  in  the  close  quarters  of  the  stair  turned  her  face  abruptly  up  to  his  and  gave  her  a  long,  staggering  kiss,  which  was  so  unexpected  and  worked  so  well  she  even  got  swept  into  wondering  for  a  moment  if  their  shadow  had  not  stamped  itself  against  the  wall.  Then  he  let  her  go.  Her  hands  for  a  moment  lay  trembling  against  his  blazer,  and,  turning  upward,  she  got  an  uncertain  final  glimpse  of  his  face  and  heard  his  voice  ascending:  &quot;...  not  quite  deteriorated,  you  must  admit.&quot;  The  door  above  her  closed,  and  she  went  out  into  the  street. "