 b"A WOMAN  in  Valparaiso,  In-  diana,  recently  sued  President  Johnson  for  having  drafted  her  son  into  the  Army.  Since  then,  news  has  come  from  England  that  one  of  Prime  Minister  Wilson's  constituents  has  hung  a  judgment  on  him  for  libel.  [REDACTED]  is  suing  the  National  League  for  trying  to  move  the  Braves  to  At-  lanta.  And  right  here  in  the  city  the  publicity  man  for  the  Off  [REDACTED]  one-act  plays  &quot;Bugs&quot;  and  &quot;Veronica&quot;  sued  the  T.W.U.  for  $53,000  dollars,  partially  for  loss  of  income  attributable  to  the  transit  strike.  Clearly,  the  Age  of  Total  Litigiousness  is  upon  us,  and  if  this  soreheaded  trend  continues  I  pre-  dict  we  will  soon  be  reading  some  even  more  surprising  news  items:  DururH-Anthony  McCool,  57,  today  brought  suit  in  District  Court,  asking  $750,000  damages  from  the  Bang-Up  Bubble  Gum  Company,  its  owners,  stockholders,  and  board  of  di-  rectors,  for  alleged  injury  to  his  career  from  chewing  their  bubble  gum.  McCool  claims  that  as  a  child  he  suf-  fered  severe  lesions  tohis  psyche  when  he  was  reprimanded  in  a  crowded  class-  room  for  chewing  the  defendants'  prod-  uct  during  school  hours  and  was  then  made  to  march  to  a  wastebasket  and  deposit  the  wad,  in  full  view  of  his  schoolmates.  The  suit  alleges  that  the  Bang-Up  Bubble  Gum  Company  neg-  ligently  failed  to  label  its  product  as  pos-  sibly  harmful  to  the  unformed  per-  sonality.  The  damages  represent  loss  of  income  to  the  plaintiff  over  the  last  forty-one  years.  McCool  maintains  that  after  the  classroom  incident  he  lost  all  confidence  in  himself  and  has  never  been  able  to  rise  above  his  present  job  as  assistant  ohm-watcher  at  Duluth  Power  Plant  No.  27.  Mramt-It  was  a  doubly  bad  break  for  multimillionaire  sportsman  Jocko  Witherspoon  when  his  horse  Home  Free  ran  a  poor  last  in  a  claiming  race  at  Hialeah  three  weeks  ago.  Wither-  spoon  is  being  sued  by  Sam  Faucet,  38,  afalse-eyelash  salesman,  for  damages  amounting  to  $100,018.  Faucet  claims  Witherspoon  owes  him  that  amount  for  failing  to  train  Home  Free  properly  before  entering  the  three-year-old  colt  in  the  race.  &quot;I'd  been  watching  that  beast  in  workouts,&quot;  said  Faucet,  &quot;and  he  had  some  sizzling  drills.  He  could  have  won  breezing  if  he'd  been  brought  up  to  the  race  right.  I  don't  think  they  let  him  get  enough  sleep  for  a  young" b"horse,for  one  thing.  Anyway,  I  had  two  combinations  on  him  and  three  deuces  on  the  nose,  which  put  me  out  eighteen  skins.  The  other  hundred  thou  is  for  mental  suffering  and  for  me  losing  a  nine-horse  parlay  I  had  lined  up  if  Home  Free  had  of  won.  I'm  letting  Witherspoon  off  cheap,  if  you  ask  me.  It's  about  time  us  two-dollar  bettors  fought  back.&quot;  St.  Lours-Emmett  R.  Proby,  67,  a  retired  box-spring  repairman,  is  suing  the  President  of  the  United  [REDACTED],  the  Department  of  Health,  Education  and  Welfare,  and  the  World  Health  Or-  ganization  for  criminal  negligence  in  allowing  him  to  be  born.  In  a  $1,250,-  000  suit  filed  here  today  in  [REDACTED]  Dis-  trict  Court,  Proby  alleges  that  proper  dissemination  of  birth-control  informa-  tion  to  his  parents  could  have  prevented  his  birth.  The  suit  is  based  on  a  fre-  quently  overlooked  footnote  to  the  Na-  poleonic  Code  known  as  ab  ovo  obliga-  tus,  which  in  effect  means  that  the  state  has  responsibility  for  the  individual  even  before  birth.  Interviewed  in  his  modest  three-room  apartment,  which  over-  looks  a  muddy  parking  lot,  Proby  said,  &quot;It's  just  a  vale  of  tears  here  below,  and  we  all  know  it.  You're  lucky  if  you  even  break  even.  I  figure  the  govern-  ment  owes  me  something  for  making  me  go  through  all  this.&quot;  Then  Proby  stood  up,  went  over  to  his  record-play-  er,  and,  for  the  fifth  time  that  morning,  put  on  a  scratchy  78-r.p.m.  of  Jerome  Kern's  &quot;Why  Was  I  Born?,&quot;  record-  ed  by  Ted  Weems,  with  Elmo  Tanner  whistling  the  second  chorus.  When  asked  what  he  would  do  with  the  money  should  he  win  his  case,  Proby  replied  in  his  soft,  defeated  tone,  &quot;Well,  first  1'd  like  to  buy  a  new  recording  of  'Why  Was  I  Born?&quot;  Also  there's  a  book  by  an  Englishman  called  'De  Pro-  fundis'  that  I  hear  is  real  great,  and  1d  be  able  to  afford  a  copy.  But  I  figure  I'm  really  doing  this  to  help  other  peo-  ple.  When  you  think  about  it,  you  know  darn  well  that  even  when  things  are  going  good  it  can't  last.  My  suit  will  help  warn  folks  not  to  start  at  all.&quot;  Baron  RovorE-Mrs.  Polly  Spoon  filed  suit  today  against  the  New  Orleans  Shrimps  football  team,  the  Commis-  sioner  of  Professional  Football,  and  Secretary  of  Labor  Wirtz.  Mrs.  Spoon  claims  that  she  applied  for  the  position  of  right  corner  linebacker  with  the  Shrimps  last  spring  but  was  turned  down  because  of  her  sex-a  clear  viola-  tion,  her  attorneys  state,  of  the  1965  Civil  Rights  Act.  Mrs.  Spoon  further  contends  that  she  is  in  excellent  condi-  tion  and  could  easily  make  the  weight" b"requirement  for  a  corner  linebacker  (at  least  210  pounds).  Though  her  only  gridiron  experience  has  been  family  choose-up  touch  games  (two  hands  be-  low  the  belt)  played  in  the  street,  the  solidly  built  housewife  states  that  by  be-  ing  excluded  from  intercollegiate  ath-  letics  she  was  denied  the  opportunity  to  learn  tackle  football  and  that  the  Shrimps  are  therefore  obligated  totrain  her.  If  Mrs.  Spoon  wins  her  case  and  is  upheld  in  higher  courts,  most  lawyers  feel  that  all  future  professional  football  teams  will  have  to  be  half  male  and  half  female.  &quot;Beans&quot;  Mellinger,  the  peppery  coach  of  the  Shrimps,  was  out-  raged  when  informed  that  his  team  may  have  to  be  bisexual.  &quot;Ican  just  see  what  it's  going  to  be  like,&quot;  he  said  bitterly.  &quot;Separate  dressing  rooms,  no  bad  words  in  the  huddle,  and  a  sub-  poena  every  time  the  quarterback  opens  his  mouth.  I  got  enough  trouble  al-  ready  with  this  club,believe  me.  My  tight  end  is  suing  the  fullback  for  not  speaking  to  him  in  the  shower  room  one  afternoon,  my  old  offensive  left  tackle  is  suing  that  bonus  rookie  from  L.S.U.  for  taking  his  job  away,  and  my  wife  is  suing  the  Shrimps  Fan  Club  for  mak-  ing  me  go  off  my  goddam  diet  at  all  those  Kickoff  Brunches  and  Victory  |  Hootenannys.  Then  just  yesterday  I  |  got  hit  with  a  suit  by  my  very  own  |  son-my  son  the  doctor.  That's  grati-  :|  tude,  after  I  paid  his  way  all  through  med  school.  He's  suing  me  for  a  hun-  dred  grand  because  I  didn't  make  him  into  a  lawyer  instead.&quot; "