 b"IN  the  summer  of  1944,  when  it  was  I  nothing  for  trains  from  the  prov-  inces  to  be  five  or  six  hours  late,  I  travelled  to  [REDACTED]  on  the  night  train  from  Edinburgh,  which,  at  York,  was  already  three  hours  late.  There  were  ten  people  in  the  compartment,  only  two  of  whom  I  remember  well,  and  for  good  reason.  I  have  the  impression,  looking  back  on  it,  ofa  row  of  people  opposite  me,  dozing  untidily  with  heads  askew,  and,  as  it  often  seems  when  we  look  at  sleeping  strangers,  their  features  had  assumed  extra  emphasis  and  individual-  ity,  sometimes  disturbing  to  watch.  It  was  as  if  they  had  rendered  up  their  daytime  talent  for  obliterating  the  out-  ward  traces  of  themselves  in  exchange  for  mental  obliteration.  In  this  way,  they  resembled  a  twelfth-century  fres-  co;  there  was  a  look  of  medieval  un-  self-consciousness  about  these  people,  all  except  one.  This  was  a  private  soldier,  who  was  awake  to  a  greater  degree  than  most  people  are  when  they  are  not  sleeping.  He  was  smoking  cigarettes  one  after  the  other  with  long,  calm  puffs.  I  thought  helooked  excessively  evil-an  atavistic  type.  His  forehead  must  have  been  less  than  two  inches  high  above  dark,  thick  eyebrows,  which  met.  His  jaw  was  not  large,  but  it  was  apelike;  so  was  his  small  nose  and  so  were  his  deep,  close-  set  eyes.  I  thought  there  must  have  been  some  consanguinity  in  the  parents.  He  was  quite  a  throwback.  As  it  turned  out,  he  was  extremely  gentle  and  kind.  When  I  ran  out  of  cigarettes,  he  fished  about  in  his  haver-  sack  and  produced  a  packet  for  me  and  one  for  a  girl  sitting  next  me.  We  both  tried,  with  a  flutter  of  small  change,  to  pay  him.  Nothing  would  please  him  at  all  but  that  we  should  accept  his  ciga-  rettes,  whereupon  he  returned  to  his  silent,  reflective  smoking.  I  felt  a  sort  of  pity  for  him  then,  rath-  er  as  we  feel  toward  animals  weknow  to  be  harmless,  such  as  monkeys.  But  I  realized  that,  like  the  pity  we  expend  on  monkeys  merely  because  they  are  not  human  beings,  this  pity  was  not  needed.  Receiving  the  cigarettes  gave  the  girl  and  myself  common  ground,  and  we  conversed  quietly  for  the  rest  of  the  journey.  She  told  me  she  had  ajob  in   [REDACTED]  as  a  domestic  helper  and  nurse-  maid.  She  looked  as  if  she  had  come  from  a  country  district-her  very  blond  hair,  red  face,  and  large  bones  gave  the  impression  of  power,  as  if  she  was  used  to  carrying  heavy  things,  perhaps  great  scuttlesful  of  coal,  or  two  children  at  a  time.  But  what  made  me  curious  about  her  was  her  voice,  which  was  culti-  vated,  melodious,  and  restrained.  Toward  the  end  of  the  journey,  when  the  people  were  beginning  to  jerk  themselves  straight  and  the  rush-  ing  to  and  fro  in  the  corridor  had  started,  this  girl,  Elise,  asked  me  to  come  with  her  to  the  house  where  she  worked.  The  master,  who  was  some-  thing  in  a  university,  was  away  with  his  wife  and  family.  I  agreed  to  this,  because  at  that  time  I  was  in  the  way  of  thinking  that  the  discovery  of  an  educated  servant  girl  was  valuable  and  something  to  be  gone  deeper  into.  It  had  the  element  of  ex-  perience-perhaps  even  of  truth,  and  I  believed,  in  those  days,that  truth  is  stranger  than  fiction.  Besides,  I  wanted  to  spend  that  Sunday  in  [REDACTED].  I  was  due  back  the  next  day  at  my  job  ina  branch  of  the  Civil  Service  which  had  been  evacuated  to  the  country,  and,  for  a  reason  that  is  another  story,  I  didn't  want  to  return  too  soon.  I  had  some  telephoning  to  do.  I  wanted  to  wash  and  change.  I  wanted  to  know  more  about  the  girl.  So  I  thanked  Elise  and  accepted  her  invitation.  I  regretted  it  as  soon  as  we  got  out  of  the  train  at  King's  [REDACTED],  some  min-  utes  after  ten.  Standing  up  tall  on  the  platform,  Elise  looked  unbearably  tired,  as  if  not  only  the  last  night's  journey  but  every  fragment  of  her  unknown  life  was  suddenly  heaping  up  on  top  of  her.  The  power  I  had  noticed  in  the  train  was  no  longer  there.  As  she  called,in  her  beautiful  voice,  for  a  porter,  I  saw  that  on  the  side  of  her  head  that  had  been  away  from  me  in  the  train  her  hair  was  parted  in  a  dark  streak,  which,  by  con-  trast  with  the  yellow,  looked  navy  blue.  I  had  thought,  when  I  first  saw  her,  that  possibly  her  hair  was  bleached,  but  now,  seeing  it  so  badly  done,  seeing  this  navy-  blue  parting  pointing  like  an  arrow  to  the  weighted  weariness  of  her  face,  I,  too,  got  thesensation  of  great  tiredness.  And  it  was  not  only  the  strain  of  the  journey  that  I  felt  but  the  foreknowl-  edge  of  boredom  that  comes  upon  us  un-  accountably  at  the  beginning  ofa  quest,  and  that  checks,  perhaps  mercifully,  our  curiosity.  ND,  as  it  happened,  there  really  wasn't  much  to  learn  about  Elise.  The  explanation  of  her  thatI  had  been  " b"prompted  to  seek  I  got  in  the  taxi  be-  tween  King's  [REDACTED]  and  the  house  at  Swiss  Cottage.  She  came  of  a  good  family,  who  thought  her  a  pity,  and  she  them.  Having  no  training  for  any-  thing  else,  she  had  taken  a  domestic  job  on  leaving  home.  She  was  engaged  to  an  Australian  soldier  billeted  also  at  Swiss  Cottage.  Perhaps  it  was  the  anticipation  of  a  day's  boredom,  maybe  it  was  the  effect  of  no  sleep  or  the  fact  that  the  V-1  sirens  were  sounding,  but  I  felt  some  sourness  when  I  saw  the  house.  The  garden  was  growing  all  over  the  place.  Elise  opened  the  front  door,  and  we  en-  tered  a  darkish  room  almost  wholly  taken  up  with  a  long,  plain  wood  worktable.  On  this  were  a  half-empty  marmalade  jar,  a  pile  of  papers,  and  a  dried-up  ink  bottle.  There  was  a  steel-  canopied  bed,  known  as  a  Morrison  shel-  ter,  in  one  corner  and  some  photographs  on  the  mantelpiece-one  of  a  schoolboy  wearing  glasses.  Everything  was  tainted  with  Elise's  weariness  and  my  own  dis-  taste.  But  Elise  didn't  seem  to  be  aware  of  the  exhaustion  so  plainly  revealed  on  her  face.  She  did  not  even  bother  to  take  her  coat  off,  and  as  it  was  too  tight  for  her,  I  wondered  how  she  could  move  about  so  quickly  with  this  re-  striction  added  to  the  weight  of  her  tiredness.  But,  with  her  coat  still  but-  toned  tight,  Elise  phoned  her  boy  friend  and  made  breakfast,  while  I  washed  in  a  dim  blue  cracked  bathroom  upstairs.  When  I  found  that  she  had  opened  my  holdall  without  asking  me  and  had  taken  out  my  rations,  I  was  a  little  pleased.  It  seemed  a  friendly  action,  with  some  measure  of  reality  about  it,  and  I  felt  better.  But  I  was  still  irri-  tated  by  the  house.  I  felt  there  was  no  justification  for  the  positive  lack  of  con-  sequence,  which  was  lying  about  here  and  there.  I  asked  no  questions  about  the  owner  who  was  something  in  a  uni-  versity,  for  fear  of  getting  the  answer  I  expected-that  he  was  away  visiting  his  grandchildren,  at  some  family  gather-  ing  in  the  home  counties.  The  owners  ofthe  house  had  no  reality  for  me,  and  I  looked  upon  the  place  as  belonging  to,  and  permeated  with,  Elise.  I  went  with  her  to  a  nearby  public  house,  where  she  met  her  boy  friend  and  one  or  two  other  Australian  soldiers,  who  had  with  them  a  thin  Cockney  girl  with  bad  teeth.  Elise  was  very  happy,  and  insisted  in  her  lovely  voice  that  they  should  all  come  along  to  a  party  at  the  house  that  evening.  In  a  fine  aristocratic  tone,  she  demanded  that  each  should  bring  a  bottle  of  beer.  During  the  afternoon,  Elise  said  she  was  going  to  havea  bath,  and  she   showed  me  a  room  where  I  could  use  the  phone  and  sleep  if  I  wanted.  This  was  a  large,  light  room  with  several  windows,  much  more  orderly  than  the  rest  ofthe  house,  and  lined  with  books.  There  was  only  one  unusual  thing  about  it:  beside  one  of  the  windows  was  a  bed,  but  this  bed  was  only  a  fairly  thick  mattress  made  up  neatly  on  the  floor.  It  was  obviously  a  bed  on  the  floor  with  some  purpose,  and  again  I  was  angered  to  think  of  the  futile  crankiness  of  the  elderly  professor  who  had  thought  of  it.  I  did  my  telephoning,  and  decided  to  rest.  But  first  I  wanted  to  find  some-  thing  to  read.  The  books  puzzled  me.  None  of  them  seemed  to  be  automati-  cally  part  of  a  scholar's  library.  An  in-  scription  in  one  book  was  signed  by  the  author,  a  well-known  novelist.  I  found  another  inscribed  copy,  and  this  had  the  name  of  the  recipient.  On  a  sudden  idea,  I  went  to  the  desk,  where  while  I  had  been  telephoning  I  had  noticed  a  pile  of  unopened  letters.  For  the  first  time,  I  looked  at  the  name  of  the  owner  of  the  house.  I  ran  to  the  bathroom  and  shouted  through  the  door  to  Elise,  &quot;Is  this  the  house  of  the  famous  poet?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  called.  &quot;I  told  you.&quot;  She  had  told  me  nothing  of  the  kind.  I  felt  I  hadno  right  at  all  to  be  there,  for  it  wasn't,  now,  the  house  of  Elise  acting  by  proxy  for  some  unknown  couple.  It  was  the  house  of  a  famous  modern  poet.  The  thought  that  at  any  moment  he  and  his  family  might  walk  in  and  find  me  there  terrified  me.  I  insisted  that  Elise  should  open  the  bath,  room  door  and  tell  me  to  my  face  that  there  was  no  possible  chance  of  their  returning  for  many  days  to  come.  Then  I  began  to  think  about  the  house  itself,  which  Elise  was  no  longer  " b"accountable  for.  Its  new  def-  inition,  as  the  house  of  a  poet  whose  work  I  knew  well,  many  of  whose  poems  I  knew  by  heart,  gave  it  alto-  gether  a  fresh  appearance.  To  confirm  this,  I  went  outside  and  stood  exactly  where  I  had  been  when  I  first  saw  the  garden  from  the  door  of  the  taxi.  I  wanted  to  get  my  first  impression  for  a  second  time.  And  this  time  I  saw  an  absolute  pur-  pose  in  the  overgrown  gar-  den,  which,  since  then,  I  have  come  to  believeexisted  in  the  eye  of  the  beholder.  But,  at  the  time,  the  room  we  had  first  entered,  and  which  had  riled  me,  now  began  to  give  back  a  mean-  ing,  and  whatever  was  was  right.  The  caked-up  bottle  of  ink,  which  Elise  had  put  on  the  mantelpiece,  I  re-  placed  on  the  table  to  make  sure.  I  saw  a  photograph  I  hadn't  noticed  before,  and  I  recognized  the  famous  poet.  It  was  the  same  with  the  upstairs  room  where  Elise  had  put  me,  and  I  handled  the  books  again,  not  so  much  with  the  sense  that  they  be-  longed  to  the  famous  poet  but  with  some  curiosity  about  how  they  had  been  made.  The  sort  of  question  that  occurred  to  me  was  where  the  paper  had  come  from  and  from  what  sort  of  vegetation  was  manufac-  tured  the  black  print,  and  these  things  have  not  trou-  bled  me  since.  HE  Australians  and  the  Cockney  girl  came  around  about  seven.  I  had  planned  to  catch  an  eight-thirty  train  to  the  country,  but  when  I  telephoned  to  con-  firm  the  time  I  found  there  were  no  Sunday  trains  running.  Elise,  in  her  friendly  and  exhausted  way,  begged  me  to  stay  without  attempting  to  be  too  serious  about  it.  The  sirens  were  start-  ing  up  again.  I  asked  Elise  once  more  to  repeat  that  the  poet  and  his  family  could  by  no  means  return  that  night.  But  I  asked  this  question  more  ab-  stractedly  than  before,  as  I  was  think-  ing  of  the  sirens  and  of  the  exact  pro-  portions  of  the  noise  they  made.  I  wondered,  as  well,  what  sinister  genius  of  the  Home  Office  could  have  in-  vented  so  ominous  a  wail,  and  why.  And  I  was  thinking  of  the  word  &quot;siren.&quot;  The  sound  then  became  comi-  cal,  forI  imagined  some  maniac  sea  nymph  from  centuries  past  belching  into  the  year  1944.  Actually,  the  sirens  frightened  me.  Most  of  all,  I  wondered  about  Elise's  party.  Everyone  roamed  about  the  place  as  if  it  were  nobody's  house  in  par-  ticular,  with  Elise  the  best-behaved  of  the  lot.  The  Cockney  girl  sat  on  the     long  table  and  gave  of  her  best  to  the  skies  every  time  a  bomb  exploded.  I  had  the  feeling  that  the  house  had  been  requisitioned  for  an  evening  by  the  military.  It  was  so  hugely  and  ev-  erywhere  occupied  that  it  became  not  the  house  I  had  first  entered,  nor  the  house  of  the  famous  poet,  but  a  third  house-the  one  I  had  vaguely  pre-  figured  when  I  stood,  bored,  on  the  plat-  form  at  King's  [REDACTED]  station.  I  saw  a  great  amount  of  tiredness  among  these  people,  and  heard,  from  the  loud  noise  they  made,  that  they  were  all  lacking  sleep.  When  the  beer  was  finished  and  they  were  gone,  some  to  their  billets,  some  to  pubs,  and  the  Cockney  girl  to  her  [REDACTED]  shelter  where  she  had  " b"slept  for  weeks  past,  I  asked  Elise,  &quot;Don't  you  feel  tired?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said  with  agonizing  weariness,  &quot;I  never  feel  tired.&quot;  IFELL  asleep  my-  self,  as  soon  asI  had  got  into  the  bedon  the  floor  in  the  upstairs  room,  and  overslept  un-  til  Elise  woke  me  at  eight.  I  had  wanted  to  get  up  early  to  catch  a  nine-o'clock  train,  so  I  hadn't  much  time  to  speak  to  her,  I  did  no-  tice,  though,  that  she  had  lost  some  of  her  tired  look.  I  was  pushing  my  things  into  my  holdall  while  Elise  went  up  the  street  to  catch  a  taxi  when  I  heard  some-  one  coming  upstairs.  I  thought  it  was  Elise  come  back,  and  I  looked  out  of  the  open  door.  I  saw  a  man  in  uniform  carrying  an  enormous  parcel  in  both  hands.  He  looked  down  as  he  climbed,  and  had  a  cigarette  in  his  mouth.  &quot;Do  you  want  Elise?&quot;  I  called,  think-  ing  it  was  one  of  her  friends.  He  looked  up,  and  I  recognized  the  soldier,  the  throwback,  who  had  given  us  ciga-  rettes  in  the  train.  &quot;Well,  anyone  will  do,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  thing  is,  I've  got  to  get  back  to  camp  and  I'm  stuck  for  the  fare-  eight  and  sixpence.&quot;  I  told  him  I  could  manage  it,  and  was  finding  the  money  when  he  said,  putting  his  parcel  on  the  floor,  &quot;I  don't  want  to  borrow  it.  I  wouldn't  think  of  borrowing  it.  I've  got  something  for  sale.&quot;  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;A  funeral,&quot;  said  the  soldier.  &quot;I've  got  it  here.&quot;  This  alarmed  me,  and  I  went  to  the  window.  No  hearse,  no  coffin  stood  below.  I  saw  only  the  avenue  of  trees.  The  soldier  smiled,  &quot;It's  an  abstract  funeral,&quot;  he  explained,  opening  the  parcel.  He  took  it  out  and  I  examined  it  carefully,  greatly  comforted.  It  was  very  much  the  sort  of  thing  I  had  wanted-rather  more  purple  in  parts   than  I  would  have  liked,  for  I  was  not  in  favor  of  this  color  of  mourning.  Still,  I  thought  I  could  tone  it  down  a  bit.  Delighted  with  the  bargain,  I  handed  over  the  eight  shillings  and  six-  pence.  There  was  agreat  dealof  this  abstract  funeral.  Hastily,  I  packed  some  of  it  into  the  holdall.  Some  I  stuffed  in  my  pockets,  and  there  was  still  some  left  over.  Elise  had  returned  with  a  cab  and  I  hadn't  much  time.  So  I  ran  for  it,  out  of  the  door  and  out  of  the  gate  of  the  house  of  the  famous  poet,  with  the  rest  of  my  funeral  trailing  behind  me.  YOU  will  complain  that  I  am  with-  holding  evidence.  Indeed,  you  may  wonder  if  there  is  any  evidence  at  all.  &quot;An  abstract  funeral,&quot;  you  willsay,  &quot;is  neither  here  nor  there.  It  is  only  a  notion.  You  cannot  pack  a  notion  into  your  bag.  You  cannot  see  the  color  of  a  notion.&quot;  You  will  insinuate  that  what  I  have  just  told  you  is  pure  fiction.  Hear  me  to  the  end.  I  caught  the  train.  Imagine  my  sur-  prise  when  I  found  sitting  opposite  me  my  friend  the  soldier,  of  whose  existence  you  are  so  skeptical.  &quot;As  a  matter  of  interest,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;how  would  you  describe  all  this  funeral  you  sold  [REDACTED];  &quot;Describe  it?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Nobody  describes  an  abstract  funeral.  You  just  conceive  it.&quot;  &quot;There  is  much  in  what  you  say,&quot;  I  replied.  &quot;Still,  describe  it  I  must,  be-  cause  it  is  not  every  dayone  comes  by  an  abstract  funeral.&quot;  &quot;I  am  glad  you  appreciate  that,&quot;  said  the  soldier.  &quot;And  after  the  war,&quot;  I  continued,  &quot;when  I  am  no  longer  a  civil  servant,  I  hope,  in  a  few  deftly  turned  phrases,  to  write  of  my  experiences  at  the  house  of  the  famous  poet,  which  have  cul-  minated  like  this.  But,  of  course,&quot;  I  " b"added,  &quot;I  will  need  to  say  what  it  looks  like,&quot;  The  soldier  did  not  reply.  &quot;If  it  were  an  okapi  or  a  sea  cow,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I  would  have  to  say  what  it  looked  like.  No  one  would  believe  me  otherwise.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  want  your  money  back?&quot;  asked  the  soldier.  &quot;Because  if  so,  you  can't  have  it.  I  spent  it  on  my  ticket.&quot;  &quot;Don't  misunderstand  me,&quot;  I  hastened  to  say.  &quot;The  funeral  is  a  de-  lightful  abstraction.  Only  I  wish  to  put  it  down  in  writing.&quot;  I  felt  a  great  pity  for  the  soldier  on  seeing  his  worried  look.  'The  apelike  head  seemed  the  saddest  thing  in  the  world.  &quot;I  make  them  by  hand,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;&quot;these  abstract  funerals.&quot;  A  siren  sounded.  somewhere,  far  away.  &quot;Elise  bought  one  of  them  last  month.  She  hadn't  any  complaints.  I  change  at  the  next  stop,&quot;  he  said,  get-  ting  down  his  kit  from  the  rack.  &quot;And  what's  more,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;your  famous  poet  bought  one.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  did  he?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No  complaints.  It  was  just  what  he  wanted-the  idea  of  a  funeral.&quot;  The  train  pulled  up.  'The  soldier     leaped  down  and  waved.  As  the  train  started  again,  I  unpacked  my  abstract  funeral  and  looked  at  it  for  a  few  moments.  &quot;To  hell  with  the  idea,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  a  real  funeral  I  want.&quot;  &quot;All  in  good  time,&quot;  said  a  voice  from  the  corridor.  &quot;You  again,&quot;  I  said.  It  was  the  soldier.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  got  off  at  the  last  station.  I'm  only  a  notion  of  myself.&quot;  &quot;Look  here,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;would  you  be  offended  if  I  throw  all  this  away?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  said  the  soldier.  &quot;You  can't  offend  a  notion.&quot;  &quot;I  want  a  real  funeral,&quot;  I  explained.  &quot;One  of  my  own.&quot;  &quot;That's  right,&quot;  said  the  soldier.  &quot;And  then  I'll  be  able  to  write  about  it  and  go  into  all  the  details,&quot;  Isaid.  &quot;Your  own  funeral?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  want  to  write  it  up?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But,&quot;  said  he,  &quot;you're  only  human.  Nobody  reports  on  their  own  funeral.  It's  got  to  be  abstract.&quot;  &quot;You  see  my  predicament?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  see  it,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;I  get  off  at  this  stop.&quot;  This  notion  of  a  soldier  alighted.  Once  more  the  train  put  on  speed.  Out  of  the  window  I  chucked  all  my  eight-  and-sixpence  worth  of  abstract  funeral.  I  watched  it  flutter-  ing  over  the  fields  and  around  the  tops  of  camouflaged  fac-  tories  with  the  sun  glittering  richly  upon  it,  until  it  was  out  of  sight.  N  the  summer  of  1944,  a  great  many  people  were  harshly  and  suddenly  killed.  The  papers  reported,  in  due  course,  those  whose  names  were  known  to  the  public.  One  of  these,  the  famous  poet,  had  returned  unexpectedly  to  his  home  at  Swiss  Cottage  a  few  moments  before  it  was  hit  direct  by  a  flying  bomb.  For-  tunately,  he  had  left  his  wife  and  children  in  the  country.  When  I  got  to  the  place  where  my  job  was,  I  had  some  time  to  spare  before  going  on  duty.  I  decided  to  ring  Elise  and  thank  her  properly,  as  I  had  left  in  such  a  hurry.  But  the  lines  were  out  of  order,  and  the  operator  could  not  find  words  enough  to  express  her  annoyance  with  me.  Behind  this  overworked,  quarrelsome  voice  from  the  exchange  I  heard  the  high,  long  hoot  that  means  that  the  telephone  at  the  other  end  is  not  functioning,  and  the  sound  made  me  infinitely  depressed  and  weary;  it  was  more  intolerable  to  me  than  the  sirens,  and  I  replaced  the  re-  ceiver;  and,  in  fact,  Elise  had  already  perished  under  the  house  of  the  famous  poet.  The  blue  cracked  bathroom,  the  bed  on  the  floor,  the  caked  ink  bottle,  the  neglected  garden,  and  the  neat  rows  of  books-I  try  to  gather  them  together  in  my  mind  whenever  I  am  enraged  by  the  thought  that  Elise  and  the  poet  were  killed  outright.  'The  angels  of  the  Resurrection  will  invoke  the  dead  man  and  the  dead  woman,  but  who  will  care  to  restore  the  fallen  house  of  the  famous  poet  if  not  myself?  Who  else  will  tell  its  story?  When  I  reflect  how  Elise  and  the  poet  were  taken  in-how  they  calmly  allowed  a  well-meaning  soldier  to  sell  them  the  notion  of  a  funeral-I  remind  myself  that  one  day  I  will  accept,  and  so  will  you,  an  abstract  funeral,  and  make  no  complaints. "