 b"MANY  years  ago,  on  the  Fo  urth  M  of  July,  1876,  a  balloonist  made  an  ascension  from  the  [REDACTED]  Zoo  and  took  along  a  baby  lion  as  an  added  attraction.  On  that  sunny  Fourth,  my  Grandfather  Nye,  who  was  a  boy  then,  was  swimming  with  his  friends  at  the  Dayton  sandbar  on  the  [REDACTED]  side  of  the  [REDACTED].  &quot;We  were  swimming  naked,  of  course,&quot;  my  grandfather  said  once,  when  we  went,  as  we  often  did,  to  his  house  in  town  for  dinner.  &quot;We  looked  up  and  saw  a  huge  silver  balloon,  with  ribbons  floating  around  the  basket,  drifting  downward  and  about  to  fall  in  the  river.  It  landed  in  a  foot  or  two  of  water  at  the  edge  of  the  bar,  and  we  boys  rushed  to  grab  the  basket.  The  aeronaut  was  half  frightened  to  death  and  pale  as  a  sheet.  The  lion  jumped  out.  It  was  about  the  size  of  a  large  police  dog,  and  as  the  poor  thing  started  to  trot  off  across  the  sand  I  ran  after  it  and  caught  it.  I  picked  it  up  and  petted  it  to  soothe  it.  It  was  quite  tame  and  seemed  to  enjoy  being  held  in  my  arms.  And  that,&quot;  my  grandfather  concluded,  &quot;is  the  only  time  I  ever  held  a  lion  in  my  arms.&quot;  But  years  later,  in  [REDACTED],  he  did  go  up  in  a  balloon.  He  was  preparing  &quot;A  Bird's-Eye  View  of  [REDACTED]&quot;  for  the  series  of  lectures  he  gave  all  over  the  [REDACTED]  and  parts  of  the  [REDACTED]  in  1891  and  1892,  with  &quot;Magnificent  Dissolv-  ing  Stereopticon  Views.&quot;  When  his  bal-  loon  passed  over  the  chiteau  of  a  fa-  mous  duke,  the  duke  came  out  on  the  terrace  and  called  up,  &quot;Come  down,  come  down  for  lunch!&quot;  But  Grandpa  Nye  just  doffed  his  hat  and  sailed  on  through  the  wonderful  upper  regions  of  the  atmosphere.  And  years  after  that,  hearing  the  story,  I  imagined  him  up  there  in  the  balloon's  basket,  floating  by  in  his  high  silk  hat  and  his  Prince  Albert  coat,  with  a  smile  on  his  face  and  a  debonair  tilt  to  his  head,  looking  just  as  he  did  in  the  picture  of  him  taken  in  1915  when  he  was  handing  the  trowel  to  William  Howard  Taft  to  lay  the  cornerstone  of  the  new  Hamilton  County  Courthouse.  The  old  courthouse  had  been  gutted  by  fire  during  the  riot  of  1884,  and  Grandpa  Nye,  who  was  known  in  Cin-  cinnati  for  his  devotion  to  civic  causes,  had,  in  1914,  been  appointed  head  of  the  commission  to  build  the  new  court-  house.  He  was  in  those  days  the  presi-  dent  of  the  Morgan  Burke  Company,  which  bought  and  sold  pig  iron  and  coal  and  owned  a  great  foundry  down " b"the  river,  as  well  as  mines  and  little  blast  furnaces  with  names  like  the  Princess,  the  Bessie,  all  over  the  [REDACTED].  Taft,  who  had  finished  his  term  as  the  twenty-seventh  President  and  hadn't  yet  been  appointed  to  his  seat  as  Chief  Justice,  wore  a  bowler  and  had  a  genial  expression,  with  his  white  walrus  mus-  tache  and  a  rose  in  his  buttonhole;  he  was  very  wide-he  took  up  two-thirds  of  the  picture,  and  Grandpa  Nye,  who  was  tall  and  thin,  stood  sidewise.  In  that  picture,  which  hung  among  many  other  old  photographs  in  the  up-  stairs  hall  of  my  grandfather's  house,  my  grandfather  looked  so  much  like  my  father  I  would  have  thought  it  was  my  father  in  the  picture  except  that  he  wasn't  wearing  my  father's  silver-  rimmed  glasses.  When  I  remarked  the  uncanny  re-  semblance,  my  mother  said,  &quot;It's  the  charm.  The  Nyes-they  all  have  it.&quot;  She  touched  my  father's  back  and  he,  pleased,  recalled  the  time  when  he  was  little  andTaft  was  President  and  the  President  came  to  dinner.  &quot;Papa  said  to  me,  'Morgan,  will  you  speak  to  the  President?&quot;  I  spoke  to  the  Presi-  dent,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;He  ate  volu-  minously,  but  very  neatly.&quot;  NEXT  to  the  picture  of  Grandpa  Nye  and  William  Howard  Taft  hung  the  picture  that  puzzled  me.  For  years  I  stared  at  it  absently,  wondering  who  the  people  were.  Five  women  and  one  man  and  a  boy  were  all  on  camel-  back  in  the  desert.  Behind  them  loomed  a  sphinx  and  a  pyramid.  The  women  were  sitting  sidesaddle  in  their  long  skirts  and  their  huge  puffed  sleeves;  their  shoes  were  just  peeking  out  from  under  their  skirts.  The  boy  was  twelve  or  thirteen  and  he  had  large  eyes.  The  man  wore  a  big,  dark,  old-fashioned  mustache  and  a  very  big  white  desert  hat.  One  evening,  my  father  came  upon  me  looking  at  that  picture  and  he  told  me  it  was  taken  on  the  famous  trip  when  Uncle  George,  my  father's  great-uncle  George  DeGolyer,  went  around  the  world  with  the  five  De-  Golyer  sisters-my  father's  grand-  mother  and  his  great-aunts  Eda,  [REDACTED],  Kate,  and  Jenny-and  Uncle  An-  drew.  &quot;That  was  in  1892  and  \xc2\xa993,  the  year  after  your  Great-Grandfather  Joab  Nye's  death,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;Your  great-grandmother,  Vanessa  DeGolyer,  had  been  left  a  widow,  and  then  that  same  summer  their  house  on  College  Hill  was  struck  by  lightning  and  burned  to  the  ground.&quot;  I  always  knew  how  my  great-grand-  father  had  died-but  only  later  did  I" b"read  what  Grandpa  Nye  wrote  of  him  in  the  Nye  Family  Record:  &quot;Though  my  father  became  a  successful  man  of  business,  he  retained  his  scholarly  quiet  ways.  He  read  Latin  and  Greek  at  sight  and  he  spoke  French  fluently.  He  graduated  from  McGill  in  the  year  1861,  the  valedictorian  of  his  class,  and  after  he  and  Mother  were  married  he  taught  Latin  at  McGill.  He  was  a  fine  teacher.  In  May  of  1872,  we  removed  to  [REDACTED],  and  Father  joined  the  firm  of  Queen  City  Carriages,  of  which  he  was  treasurer  at  the  time  of  his  death,  We  lived  in  College  Hill  and  Father  rode  to  and  from  the  city  on  the  old  narrow-gauge  railway.  He  al-  ways  carried  a  book,  for  he  was  an  omnivorous  reader.  On  the  second  of  July,  1892,  he  had  with  him  Hardy's  'Tess  of  the  D'Urbervilles&quot;  He  was  down  at  the  Gest  Street  Station  of  the  old  C.  H.  &amp;  D.,  waiting  for  the  train  on  which  he  was  accustomed  to  ride  home  in  the  evening,  and,  absorbed  in  reading  'Tess,'  he  started  across  the  tracks,  as  was  his  wont.  He  did  not  hear  the  switch  engine  that  bore  down  on  him,  though  they  said  they  rang  and  rang  the  bell.  He  died  without  re-  gaining  consciousness  two  hours  later  at  the  [REDACTED]  Hospital,  where  the  ambulance  had  taken  him.  &quot;His  death  came  to  us  not  only  as  a  shock  but  as  a  profound  sorrow.  He  was  a  lovable  man,  devoted  to  my  mother  and  to  his  children,  and  we  all  grieved  for  him.  To  this  day,  I  mourn  him  and  feel  that  his  death,  in  his  fifty-fifth  year,  was  a  calamity.  Life  for  himwas  so  full  and  he  enjoyed  it  so  much  that  I  could  never  dismiss  the  feelingthat  in  some  way  he  had  missed  the  years  that  would  have  been  the  sweetest  to  him.  As  I  write  this,  I  am  many  years  older  than  he  was  when  he  died,  yet  I  always  think  of  him  as  much  older  than  I  am  or  older  than  I  could  be;  that  is,  years  have  not  changed  the  relation  of  parent  and  child.  &quot;After  my  father's  death,the  com-  modious  new  residence  he  had  built  was  struck  by  lightning,  which  set  fire  to  the  roof,  and  the  whole  house  was  destroyed.  All  the  furniture,  the  books,  and  the  bric-a-brac  were  consumed.  There  were  the  accumulations  of  many  years,  and  the  clothing,  too,  was  de-  stroved,  so  my  mother  was  left  with  only  the  clothes  on  her  back.  After  Father's  death,  Uncle  George  and  Aunt  Jenny  had  taken  over  the  house,  and  Mother  lived  with  them.  The  de-  struction  of  the  house  made  them  all  so  unhappy  that  they  determined  not  to  attempt  to  rebuild  or  to  keep  house" b"again.  They  took  a  trip  around  the  world,  and  were  gone  for  more  than  a  year.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;&quot;Yes,&quot;  my  father  said,  coming  closer  to  scrutinize  the  picture,  &quot;this  was  probably  taken  early  in  the  year  1893  on  that  famous  trip.&quot;  Then  he  tried  to  figure  out  for  me  which  of  his  great-  aunts  was  which.  He  mumbled.  &quot;No,  no,  this  one  must  be  Eda,&quot;  he  said,  pointing.  &quot;She  was  the  one  who  always  smelled  of  perfumes  and  powders.  She  was  John  Randall's  grandmother.&quot;  He  mumbled  again.  &quot;No,  this  is  [REDACTED],&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  was  the  one  with  the  thick  ankles.&quot;  (I  couldn't  see  her  ankles  in  the  picture.)  &quot;This  one  is  Kate.  I  de-  spised  her.  Despised  her.  She  was  an  artist,  you  know.  She  had  a  studio  in  the  old  Chelsea  building  in  New  York.  She  didn't  like  people.  She  had  a  harsh  female  voice.  And  she  married  \xc2\xbb#o  one.  I  refused  to  go  to  her  funeral.&quot;  He  paused,  and  then  he  said,  smiling,  &quot;Now,  this  is  Aunt  Jenny.  She  and  Uncle  George  were  husband  and  wife,  and  they  were  also  first  cousins,  you  |  know.  When  they  were  children,  they  always  said  they  were  going  to  get  mar-  ried.  I  suppose  everyone  just  thought  it  was  charming.  Certainly  no  one  took  it  seriously.  Then  one  day  when  they  were  sixteen  they  went  off  together  {}{  down  the  road  until  they  came  to  a  justice  of  the  peace.  It  was  much  easier  to  get  married  in  those  days.  They  came  back  home  for  supper  and  an-  nounced  that  they  were  married,  and  that  was  that.  In  later  years  ...&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;In  later  years,  Uncle  George  had  a  ...a  sweetheart,  and  Aunt  Jenny  was  exceedingly  jealous.  Exceedingly  jealous,&quot;  my  father  said,  smiling  to  himself.  &quot;Now,  this  is  my  grandmother,  Vanessa.  She  was  a  wonderful  woman,  wonderful.  She  loved  people.  She  fought  for  women's  rights  in  the  days  when  women  didn't  do  such  things.  She  corresponded  with  Lucy  Stone.  She  was  responsible,  you  know,  for  having  the  'NO  SPITTING  signs  in-  stalled  in  the  streetcars  of  [REDACTED].  Once,  she  was  ridiculed  in  the  papers  for  appearing  before  the  City  Council  to  demand  playgrounds  for  the  city's  children.  The  headlines  said  she  said,  CURE  BOWLEGS.'  And  this,&quot;  my  father  said  gently,  pointing  to  the  boy,  &quot;is  Uncle  Andrew.  Do  you  remember  him?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Daddy,  of  course.  I  loved  him  so  much,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Uncle  Andrew  was  nearly  twenty  years  younger  than  his  oldest  brother,  Grandpa  Nye,  and  he  always  seemed  " b"to  be  one  of  the  children  with  us.  One  time,  I  sat  next  to  him  at  dinner  at  Grandpa  Nye's  and  I  told  him  some-  thing  disgusting  to  try  to  make  him  un-  able  to  eat.  And  he  told  me  back  some-  thing  five  times  as  disgusting,  about  a  cow  he  ate  in  [REDACTED],  that  I've  never  been  able  to  forget.&quot;  Uncle  Andrew  had  a  big  square  face  and  was  pale,  and  he  had  very  big,  very  pale-blue  eyes  that  looked  innocent  and  startled,  and  ahigh  wide  bumpy  forehead,  and  very  curly  brown  hair  cut  short  and  brushed  back.  His  voice  was  hoarse  and  it  had  sadness  in  it,  be-  cause,  I  thought,  his  wife  whom  he  loved  so  much  had  died.  Her  name  was  Francie.  She  was  a  Florodora  girl  when  he  met  her  in  New  York.  He  was  studying  mining  engineering  at  Colum-  bia.  He  was  on  the  football  team  in  1902.  After  they  were  married  he  brought  her  home  to  Grandpa  Nye's.  The  family  disapproved  because  she  was  a  dancing  girl.  Daddy  said  all  the  family  gathered  in  the  library  to  meet  her,  and  once  he  looked  over  andsaw  her  standing  alone  near  a  window.  As  he  watched,  a  tear  rolled  down  her  cheek.  Daddy  hated  the  family  for  making  Aunt  Francie  feel  that  way.  She  was  the  most  delicate,  the  most  beautiful  creature  in  all  the  world-so  frail  and  so  lovely-and  she  went  with  Uncle  Andrew  in  a  dugout  through  the  jungles  of  Guatemala,  when  he  was  working  for  the  [REDACTED]  Coast  and  Geo-  detic  Survey,  looking  for  gold.  And  later  she  went  with  him  to  496e646961.  His  job  was  to  set  up  a  great  pig-iron  blast  furnace  whose  dismantling  he  had  over-  seen  in  Batelle,  [REDACTED],  where  it  had  been  built  but  never  used.  Uncle  Andrew  marked  and  plotted  the  bricks  and  the  steel,  blueprinted  the  furnace  piece  by  piece,  and  shipped  it  on  a  huge  freighter  to  the  Tata  Iron  Works,  near  Calcutta,  and  there  he  rebuilt  it.  But  in  496e646961  Aunt  Francie  died.  She  was  only  thirty-one.  Uncle  Andrew  wandered  grieving  through  [REDACTED]  and  4368696e61,  and  when,  after  many  years,  he  came  home,  he  put  his  hand  inhis  pocket  and  pulled  out  a  small  object,  which  he  held  in  his  palm.  &quot;Morgan,&quot;  he  said  to  my  father,  &quot;look  at  this!&quot;  It  was  a  soybean.  Uncle  Andrew  ex-  plained  its  significance.  &quot;That  would  have  been  about  1924,&quot;  my  father  told  me,  &quot;and  the  soybean  was  relatively  unknown  here,  though  it  had  been  grown  in  4368696e61  since  before  written  history  and  was  one  of  the  five  sacred  grains  considered  essential  to  the  ex-  istence  of  Chinese  civilization.&quot;  Later,  Uncle  Andrew  married  again,  but  he  never  stopped  grieving  for  his  beautiful  Francie  who  died  when  she  was  still  so  young.  He  practiced  yoga  in  his  back  yard  in  College  Hill.  And  then  one  morning  in  1937  he  woke  up  and  put  his  feet  out  of  bed  and  died.  &quot;Like  that!&quot;  my  father  said,  snapping  his  finger  and  thumb,  &quot;He  was  the  replica  of  his  father,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;Your  Great-Grand-  father  Joab  Nye,  who  was  killed,  you  know,  while  he  was  reading  'Tess  of  the  D'Urbervilles.&quot;  Suddenly  my  fa-  ther  was  trembling  with  anger.  &quot;Don't  let  anyone  ever  tell  you  it  was  not  ...&quot;  &quot;Not  what?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Not  an  accident,&quot;  he  said.  His  lips  were  twitching  with  fury.  Often  in  my  mind,  I  saw  him,  my  great-grandfather,  Joab  Nye,  tall  and  gentle  and  lovable,  reading,  his  blue  eyes  faroff  and  deep  in  &quot;Tess  of  the  D'Urbervilles,&quot;  walking  the  Yorkshire  hills  he'd  left  when  he  was  three,  as  he  crossed  the  tracks  amid  the  heat  and  city  sounds  of  a  July  evening  in  the  Queen  City  of  the  West  and  looked  up  (his  blue  eyes  Uncle  Andrew's  eyes),  startled,  in  the  moment  he  was  taken  from  his  book  and  killed."