 b"MINERVA,  the  cat,  was  trampling,  M  as  shedid  every  morning  when  she  first  woke  and  wanted  her  milk.  Imogen,  eyes  barely  open,  stretched  out  her  hand  for  her  watch.  Finding  it,  she  saw  it  was  six-  thirty.  Had  the  alarm  already  gone  off?  At  that  moment,  it  began  its  discreet  buzz.  Imogen  pressed  in  the  knob.  Since  Piers'  plane  did  not  leave  until  ten,  they  need  not  get  to  the  terminal  until  nine,  so  if  Minny  would  let  him  Piers  could  sleep  on  for  another  few  minutes.  But  Minny  was  on  his  side  of  the  bed  now,  kneading  the  blankets.  Imogen,  looking  up  at  the  ceiling,  no-  ticed  for  the  umpteenth  time  how  bad-  ly  it  was  peeling.  Still,  she  thought,  the  flat  had  served  them  well  for  fifteen  years;  really  it  owed  them  nothing.  The  first  time  she  saw  the  old  brown-  stone  walkup,  with  its  eight  railroad  flats,  she  had  fallen  in  love  with  it.  Having  climbed  the  four  steep  flights  (sixty-eight  steps),  to  the  east  apart-  ment  on  thetop  floor,  where  her  land-  lady  was  waiting  to  let  her  in,  she  greeted  her  with  &quot;Mrs.  Murphy,  you'll  only  get  me  out  of  here  feet  first.&quot;  It  was  at  the  end  of  World  War  II,  and  Imogen  had  rented  the  flat  by  tele-  phone,  sight  unseen,  from  Washing-  ton,  where  she  had  worked  four  years  after  she  and  her  two  small  sons-  Nicolas,  aged  two,  and  Peter,  four-  had  fled  the  blitz.  Piers,  who  had  been  a  conscientious  objector  throughout  the  war,  working  on  the  land  in  Sussex,  had  written  to  her  after  V-E  Day  that  he  would  join  her  and  the  children  in  New  York.  For  six  years,  he  had  been  cold,  hungry,  and  overtired,  fire-  watching  by  night,  digging  by  day.  Sud-  denly  he  longed  for  a  city  and  a  change  of  pace.  So  Imogen  had  rented  the  flat,  moved  herself  and  the  boys,  bought  the  whole  flatful  of  furniture  for  under  a  hundred  dollars  at  the  Salvation  Army's  depot,  and  found  a  job  in  a  publisher's  office.  Her  salary  barely  paid  the  rent-  thirty-five  dollars  a  month-and  the  food  bills.  They  had  lived  on  it,  though;  in  those  days  it  was  impossible  to  bring  money  out  of  England.  Anyway,  there  wasn't  much  to  bring.  When  Piers  was  finally  on  his  way,  she  had  in-  formed  Mrs.  Murphy.  Mrs.  Murphy  had  erected  an  arch  of  colored  paper  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs,  with  &quot;WELCOME  HOME,  HERO&quot;  across  it  in  foot-high  silver-paper  letters.  (When  Mrs.  Murphy's  Kevin  returned  from  Gua-  dalcanal,  the  same  arch  reappeared,  but  the  message  read,  &quot;WELCOME  HOME,  son.&quot;)  Poor  lamb,  Imogen  thought,  look-  ing  down  at  the  peaceful  face,  the  still  boyish,  straight  brown  hair,  the  thin,  straight  aristo  nose,  the  long  black  lash-  es-so  wasted  on  a  man-the  tight  lips     MARCH  12,  19  66  that  even  in  sleep  seemed  sewn  to-  gether.  When  he  arrived,  the  place  had  been  quite  a  shock.  Raised  in  a  coun-  try  rectory,  he  had  from  the  first  felt  claustrophobic  in  the  three  tiny  rooms  thatled  one  into  another,  with  neither  doors  nor  privacy.  From  the  first,  too,  he  had  disliked  the  noise,  the  dirt,  the  surliness  of  New  York.  He  worried  because  the  children  had  only  the  sidewalks  to  play  upon;  he  resented  Imogen's  scrubbing  the  worn  green  linoleum  in  her  slip;  he  carried  cow-  slip  ghosts  and  blackbird  echoes  per-  petually  in  his  heart  and  could  never  accept  the  cold  concrete  canyons  of  the  city.  The  boys,  hardly  remembering  the  Sussex  village  where  they  were  born,  had  quickly  become  part  of  the  life  of  the  old  brownstone;  they  made  great  friends  with  the  O'Donnells,  on  the  floor  below,  whose  television  they  watched  daily,  escaping  from  their  own  flat  as  soon  as  they  had  perfunctorily  disposed  of  their  homework.  'The  O'Donnells  were  endlessly  welcoming,  never  expecting  hospitality  in  return,  and  Piers  seemed  to  think  it  quite  natu-  ral  that  his  children  should  be  always  at  the  receiving  end.  Piers  was  stirring  now.  As  he  rolled  over,  a  paperback  fell  off  the  bed  onto  the  floor.  Imogen  picked  it  up-it  was  the  Bhagavad-Gita-and  tried  tofind  a  place  for  it  in  any  one  of  the  book-  shelves  that  lined  the  room  from  floor  to  ceiling  on  all  sides.  She  gave  up,  after  forcing  the  book  half  in.  She  hoped  Piers  would  not  notice-things  were  his  friends,  and  he  suffered  so  to  see  them  ill-treated.  Most  of  the  books  were  reli-  gious-from  de  Caussade's  &quot;Holy  Abandonment&quot;  to  &quot;Muslim  Devotions,&quot;  from  &quot;Hatha  Yoga&quot;  to  &quot;Cas-  sian,&quot;  from  the  &quot;Dham-  mapada&quot;  to  the  &quot;Philo-  kalia.&quot;  All  higgledy-pig-  gledy,  stuffed  in  without  order  either  of  size  or  sub-  ject.  Books  also  spewed  out  onto  chairs,  tables.  Imogen  walked  into  the  kitchen.  There  were  more  of  them,  perched  on  the  icebox,  the  stove,  the  radiators  camped  everywhere.  The  room  looked  seedy.  The  walls  were  streaked  with  grime.  The  last  time  they  had  been  painted,  the  boys  had  done  the  job  as  a  Christmas  surprise.  But  they  had  not  succeeded  in  matching  the  peculiar  sickly  " b"green  of  the  stove.  &quot;You've  mixed  your  color  all  wrong,&quot;  Piers  had  told  them.  &quot;You  have  no  eyes.&quot;  That  was  threeyears  ago.  The  boys  were  no  longer  at  home.  Grown  now,  they  had  drifted  away-Nicolas  to  mili-  tary  service  in  '[REDACTED],  Peter  to  whine  over  his  slum  childhood  in  a  decorator's  shop  by  day,  in  one  Greenwich  Vil-  lage  room  by  night.  Minny  had  followed  Imogen  into  the  kitch-  en;  already  outside  the  window  the  bright  March  light  was  mak-  ing  Mondrian-like  black  patterns  of  laun-  dry  lines  and  fire  es-  capes  on  the  brown-  stone  opposite.  Imogen  looked  out  in  delight,  but  Minny's  loud  mi-  aow  recalled  her  to  her  duty.  She  opened  the  icebox  and  got  out  a  half-filled  carton  of  milk,  set  it  on  the  kitch-  en  table,  and  from  a  lower  shelf  took  a  can  of  cat  food.  Opening  the  bathroom  door  with  her  elbow,  she  picked  up  the  cat's  dishes  from  under  the  bath,  shak-  ing  off  three  roaches  onto  the  floor  as  she  did  so.  She  managed  to  squish  one  of  them  with  her  bare  heel.  I  will  not,  she  thought,  have  Be  Kind  to  Roach  Week  every  week,  even  if  Piers  wants  me  to-it's  us  or  them.  They  are  many,  we  are  few.  They'll  survive  us  any-  way,  since  no  one  has  found  a  dose  of  fallout  that  affects  roaches.  I'm  not  go-  ing  to  help  them.  Piers  disapproved  of  poisonous  powders,  saying  they  were  more  likely  to  kill  the  boys  than  the  roaches.  The  more  Imogen  cleaned-  she  scrubbed  the  floor  twice  weekly  on  her  knees  and  mopped  it  daily-the  more  roaches  arrived.  &quot;Such  clean  creatures,&quot;  Piers  said.  &quot;You  should  be  very  flattered  that  they  so  obviously  prefer  your  kitchen  to  the  kitchens  of  your  neighbors.&quot;  Dinner  guests  would  remove  roaches  from  the  sugar  before  helping  themselves,  and  whenever  Imogen  saw  a  glazed  look  come  over  some  friend's  face  as  he  ate,  she  knew  it  was  because  behind  her  head  roaches  were  scuttling  up  or  down  the  kitch-  en  walls.  On  guestless  evenings,     the  boys  would  race  roaches  along  the  floor,  blowing  on  them  gently  to  keep  them  in  line  and  urge  them  for-  ward;  they  bet  wildly  withconkers  or  marbles.  Not  only  roaches  disturbed  the  guests  in  those  early  years.  Almost  always,  just  when  everyone  had  got  comfort-  ably  settled  (Imogen  always  just  asked  the  ranking  guest  whether  he  preferred  to  face  the  stove  or  the  sink),  a  ham-  mering  on  the  kitchen  wall  would  begin.  Until  the  boys,  who  slept  in  the  middle  room,  woke,  their  parents  would  pretend  not  to  notice.  Then,  while  Imogen  went  to  settle  them,  Piers  would  open  the  door  to  find  their  neighbor,  Mr.  Pacek-enormous,  beefy,  scarlet-faced,  short-necked-  standing  at  the  door.  Pacek  would  re-  vile  Piers  in  heavily  Slavic  English  for  making  so  much  noise;  Piers  would  counter  in  the  purest  Oxford,  berating  Pacek  for  waking  the  boys.  Pacek  would  threaten  to  get  the  police;  Piers  would  threaten  to  fetch  up  the  land-  lady.  Occasionally,  both  made  good  53  their  threats.  Once,  when  Piers  opened  the  door  suddenly,  a  police-  man  crouching  outside  almost  fell  in,  explain-  ing  apologetically  that  Mr.  Pacek  here  had  asked  him  to  listen  to  the  racket.  He  gently  assured  Piers  he  could  hear  nothing  offensive,  not  even  a  song-noth-  ing  anyone  ought  to  complain  about.  &quot;But  you  folks  should  learn  to  get  along  with  each  other  here,&quot;  he  added.  &quot;'This  great  country  of  ours  has  room  for  you  all.&quot;  Piers'  expression,  haughty  as  a  camel's,  showed  that  he  did  not  relish  this  ser-  mon;  Pacek  obviously  could  not  understand  a  word  of  it.  Imogen  had  invited  the  police-  man  in,  &quot;to  see  for  yourself  what  sort  of  a  party  it  is.&quot;  He  had  ac-  cepted,  had  drunk  a  mild  Scotch,  then  had  stepped  out.  'Then  there  was  the  day  Pacek  had  seized  and  shaken  little  Biddy  O'Donnell,  who  had  come  up  to  play  with  Peter.  The  two  chil-  drenhad  been  rolling  marbles  under  the  beds.  Pacek,  wait-  ing  outside  the  door,  had  pounced  on  them  as  they  came  out  onto  the  land-  ing.  Imogen,  struggling  up  the  stairs  with  a  huge  bagful  of  groceries  from  the  supermarket,  heard  the  screams  and  stopped  by  the  second  floor  west  to  en-  list  Mrs.  Murphy's  help.  Mrs.  Murphy  had  not  even  waited  to  put  in  her  false  teeth  but  had  come  instantly.  When  she  heard  Pacek  yelling  at  Imogen  that  she  was  a  foreigner  andhad  no  business  to  be  in  these  United  [REDACTED],  Mrs.  Murphy  let  fly.  &quot;You're  no  American,  neither,&quot;  she  told  him,  toothless  but  articulate.  &quot;You're  just  a  man  his  own  country  didn't  want-not  that  I  can  blame  it,  either.  Good  riddance  to  bad  rubbish  I  say!  These  folks,&quot;  she  added,  patting  Imogen,  &quot;these  Limeys,  they've  fought  for  us  in  two  warsand  they  deserve  to  become  real  Americans.&quot;  PIERS  appeared  in  the  kitchen,  rub-  bing  his  eyes.  He  was  bare  to  the  waist,  and  Imogen  was  astonished,  as  she  was  every  time  she  saw  him,  at  his  " b"archaic  good  looks.  &quot;Your  husband  is  an  Elizabethan  Englishman,&quot;  an  Italian  friend  had  told  Imogen  the  first  time  he  saw  Piers.  &quot;He's  like  one  of  Nicholas  Hilliard's  ivories.&quot;  It  was  true;  the  pale  skin,  the  light-gray  eyes,  the  elegant  slim  height,  the  perfect  hands  sug-  gested  rapiers  and  ruffs  rather  than  trousers-or,  as  now,pajama  bottoms.  Imogen  looked  down  at  Piers'  bare  feet.  His  second  toe  on  each  foot  was  longer  than  thebig  toe-a  fact  of  which  he  was  complacently  proud,  de-  claring  it  a  sign  of  good  breeding.  &quot;Oh,  Minny  woke  you,  too?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I'm  so  sorry-I  hoped  I'd  de-  coyed  her  in  here  in  time.&quot;  Piers  in  his  turn  looked  down  at  Imogen's  feet-lumpy  with  corns  but  with  distaste.  She  was  guiltily  shak-  ing  the  dead  roach  off  her  heel.  &quot;I  want  my  tea,&quot;  he  said.  While  Imogen  got  down  the  canis  ter,  he  filled  a  saucepan  with  water  and  lit  the  gas  with  a  kitchen  match.  Imo-  gen  put  the  saucepan  lid  on.  Piers  took  it  off.  &quot;But  it  boils  so  much  quicker,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  can't  see  when  it  boils  if  the  lid  is  on,  and  tea  is  horrid  if  the  water  it's  made  with  has  boiled  for  more  than  a  minute.&quot;  From  the  sideboard  he  took  a  silver  tray,  a  gift  on  the  occasion  of  his  marriage  from  his  father's  pa-  rishioners;  it  was  engraved  with  a  dedi-  cation.  Then  he  went  to  the  kitchen  cupboard,  opened  it,  got  out  silver  polish,  and  carried  it  and  the  tray  over  to  the  sink.  Imogen  had  just  finished  drying  last  night's  beer  glasses.  &quot;Darling,  do  leave  that  tray  alone,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  cleaned  it  two  days  ago.  It's  only  the  damp  air  that  makes  it  bleary.&quot;  &quot;You  have  no  idea  how  to  keep  silver,&quot;  Piers  said.  &quot;Yours  is  always  a  disgrace.&quot;  &quot;If  you  clean  it  too  often,  it  wears  the  silver  out,&quot;  Imogen  said,  getting  two  plain  white  dime-store  cups  out  and  nervously  peering  inside  them  be-  hind  Piers'  back  as  he  stooped  over  the  sink.  As  though  feeling  her  fear,  he  turned.  &quot;I'm  sure  they're  dirty,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  haven't  had  aclean  teacup  since  I  married.&quot;  &quot;I've  often  heard  Your  Majesty  say  so.&quot;  Imogen  sighed.  &quot;And  even  often-  er  heard  you  tell  our  friends.&quot;  &quot;Look  at  it  now-isn't  that  better?&quot;  Piers  turned  triumphantly  from  the  sink  toward  her  with  the  shining  tray  in  his  hands.  Imogen  went  into  the  bathroom,  to  hide  the  tears  she  could  not  control,  She  must  not  cry,  for  Piers  would  say  it  was  like  a  housemaid-only  housemaids  cry  when  scolded;  you  are  so  like  a  housemaid.  But  as  she  looked  out  of  the  window  she  forgot  her  chagrin  in  herjoy  at  the  fire  escape,  snow-padded  and  glistening  with  ice.  It  was  always  a  delight.  She  would  take  her  reading  out  there,  or  eat  her  lunch  on  it  weekends,  the  year  round.  The  washing-her  own  and  her  neigh-  bors'-made  ever-changing  colored,  lilting  patterns,  and  she  loved  every  season.  In  spring,  the  sun  shone  direct-  ly  down,  piercing  hot.  Pacek's  niece,  who  lived  next  door  now  that  her  uncle  was  dead,  would  sit  in  her  window,  stark  naked,  and  chat  pleasantly.  &quot;This  is  the  time  the  sun  is  full  of  vitamins,&quot;  she  told  Imogen.  &quot;This  way  you  absorb  them  directly,&quot;  and  she  would  wriggle  her  thin  torso,  her  gray  skin  goosefleshed  from  the  cold.  In  summer,  the  great  boughs  of  the  tree  of  heaven-the  only  thing  that  grew  in  the  sour,  bald  black  soil  of  Mrs.  Murphy's  dark  yard-came  up  all  around  the  fire  escape,so  Imogen  could  think  green  Marvelled  thoughts  in  their  abyss  of  shade.  In  the  fall,  she  had  to  sweep  leaves  off  the  steps,  and  in  the  winter,  snow.  Back  in  the  kitchen,  Imogen  warmed  the  teapot  from  the  tap,  poured  off  the  hot  water,put  in  three  teaspoonfuls  of  tea-one  for  each  of  them,  one  for  the  pot-while  Piers  poured  the  now  galloping  water  from  the  saucepan  onto  the  leaves.  Some  spilled  on  Imogen's  hand.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  Piers  said.  &quot;That's  O.K.,&quot;  Imogen  said,  rub-  bing  the  spilled  water  off  on  her  night-  gown  as  she  followed  Piers  back  into  the  big  Castro  Convertible  double  bed  that  almost  filled  the  front  room.  " b"What  a  unifying  drink  tea  was,  she  reflected.  Whenever  she  had  put  the  refuse  in  the  wrong  ashcan-and  noth-  ing  used  to  infuriate  Mrs.  Murphy  more-she  could  always  re\xc3\xa9stablish  calm  by  the  offer  of  &quot;a  nice  cup  of  tea.&quot;  Indeed,  she  had  got  into  the  habit,  as  Mrs.  Murphy  stormed  upstairs  into  the  apartment,  declaring  Imogen  would  land  her  in  jail  or  make  her  liable  for  an  immense  fine-and  all  for  some  empty  cans  set  on  top  of  the  ashes,  or  for  some  dead  flowers  loose,  not  en-  veloped  in  a  paper  bag-of  putting  on  a  kettle  at  once  and  then  waiting  for  the  scolding  to  end.  The  first  time  Imogen  had  spied  a  garbage  truck  from  her  window,  she  had  rushed  delighted-  ly  down  to  the  street,  two  days'  ac-  cumulated  horrors  in  her  arms,  to  be  rejected  by  a  handsome  giant  in  a  sort  of  pachydermous  armor.  &quot;I'm  trash,  not  garbage,&quot;  he  had  toldher.  Imogen  had  taken  years  to  learn  to  distinguish  ashes  from  trash  and  trash  from  gar-  bage,  but  she  had  quickly  learned  to  know,  and  grown  to  love,  Mrs.  Mur-  phy.  For  over  the  mollifying  tea-  Lapsang  Souchong,  brewed  so  strong  that,  with  lots  of  milk,  it  tasted  almost  like  Lipton's-Mrs.  Murphy  would  discuss  the  other  tenants.  Pacek  was  quickly  dismissed  as  sick;  blood  pressure  accounted  for  the  ugliness  of  his  tem-  per.  For  Mrs.  Murphy,  whenever  pos-  sible,  excused  human  weaknesses,  es-  pecially  in  tenants.  Pat  O'Donnell,  Liz's  truant  husband,  was  an  exception.  &quot;Now  she's  chain-smoking,  and  her  mother  has  been  to  Father  Dougherty  about  it,  but  she's  so  upset  she  can't  un-  wind.  And  she  knows  he's  living  with  that  gook  Annie,  who's  not  a  patch  on  Liz,  who's  as  slim  as  on  her  wedding  day,  in  spite  of  these  five  kids.&quot;  &quot;Some  men  are  pigs,&quot;  agreed.  &quot;Pigs!&quot;  Mrs.  Murphy  spat.  &quot;Don't  you  demean  no  pig  by  mentioning  it  in  the  same  breath  with  Pat  O'Donnell!&quot;  The  Erhards,  first  floor  east,  used  to  sit  forever  in  their  window  watching  the  passersby.  Mr.  Erhard  had  put  a  sign  in  the  window  saying,  &quot;Fountain  Pens  Fixed,&quot;  but  no  one  ever  was  seen  to  patronize  him,  and  on  the  one  occa-  sion  Imogen's  pen  had  leaked  and  she  had  taken  it  to  him  he  had  said  sadly  that  as  it  was  foreign,  no  parts  he  could  buy  or  provide  would  help.  Mrs.  Mur-  phy  had  explained  the  Erhards.  They  once  lived  where  Imogen  and  Piers  now  did,  and  had  had  one  little  girl,  blond  and  cute.  When  she  was  four  years  old,  she  had  fallen  off  the  fire  escape  and  died  in  the  ambulance  Mrs.  Murphy  called.  After  that,  they  had  Imogen moved  downstairs;  by  the  time  Imo-  gen  came  to  the  house  both  were  aged  and  ailing.  One  day,  Mrs.  Murphy  asked  Imogen  to  go  with  Mr.  Erhard  tothe  hospital  in  a  cab-he  had  been  taken  poorly.  Imogen  waited  with  him  while  all  the  formalities  were  filled  in.  &quot;You  his  daughter?&quot;  she  was  asked.  &quot;Ineed  a  long  rest,&quot;  he  told  Imogen  when  she  said  goodbye.  He  had  never  returned.  Mrs.  Murphy  had  asked  all  the  tenants  to  help  herout  with  Mrs.  Erhard's  rent;  everyone  but  Pacek  had  chipped  in,  until  the  visitor  who  came  once  a  week  from  some  Lutheran  charity  said  that  Mrs.  Erhard  must  be  moved  to  a  home-she  was  incontinent  and  in  constant  discomfort  from  bed-  sores.  Imogen  had  gone  to  prepare  her  for  the  move,  &quot;I  want  to  die!  Why  can't  I  die?&quot;  Mrs.Erhardhad  said.  &quot;I've  taken  thirty  aspirin  at  a  time,  but  I'm  always  sick  to  my  stomach  after  and  retch  them  out.&quot;  Mrs.  Murphy  had  not  wanted  to  die.  Indeed,  through  the  first  three  years  Piers  and  Imogen  were  in  the  house  she  seemed  more  alive  than  any  of  her  tenants.  Then,  stopping  by  one  first  of  February  to  pay  the  rent,  Imogen  found  Mrs.  Murphy's  Kevin  and  Mrs.  Connolly,  her  only  daughter,  sitting  in  the  kitchen  drinking  whiskey.  &quot;Mother  died  this  morning,&quot;  Mrs.  Connolly  said,  crying.  Imogen  asked,  &quot;Where  is  she?&quot;  and  was  told  that  the  under-  taker  had  fetched  her  but  would  soon  bring  her  back.  The  wake  would  be  in  the  evening.  Imogen  was  bidden,  together  with  Piers  and  the  boys.  The  boys?  Imogen  had  wondered,  but  had  dressed  them  in  their  Sunday  suits  and  taken  them  down.  They  had  followed  her,  quietly  curious,  into  the  Murphys'  kitchen.  All  the  O'Donnells  were  al-  ready  there,  including  the  errant  Pat.  Imogen's  Peter  and  Biddy  O'Donnell  had  quickly  got  together,  but  Nicolas  had  followed  Imogen  into  the  front  room,  where  Mrs.  Murphy  lay  in  a  white-satin-lined,  shiny  polished  ma-  hogany  coffin,  candles  lit  and  floral  tributes  piled  beside  her.  Her  mouth  was  lipsticked,  her  cheeks  were  rouged.  &quot;Doesn't  she  look  beautiful?&quot;  Mrs.  Connolly  said  to  Imogen,  patting  a  peroxided  curl  into  place.  A  photograph  of  a  modern  church  in  a  lush  Orien-  tal  landscape  stood  by  the  coffin,  and  Nicolas,  pointing,  asked  where  it  " b" was.  Mrs.  Connolly  explained  thatthat  was  the  church  her  mother-God  rest  her  soul-had  sent  money  to  build  in  496e646961.  Beside  the  picture  of  the  church  stood  another  photograph,  this  one  of  a  dark  young  man  in  a  clerical  collar.  &quot;That's  the  pastor,  Father  Fige-  rado,&quot;  Mrs.  Connolly  explained.  &quot;Mother  paid  all  his  expenses  through  seminary,  too-the  first  photo  we  have  of  him  is  just  a  pickaninny  in  a  loin-  cloth.&quot;  Imogen  said,  &quot;She  looks  very  peace-  ful.&quot;  Mrs.  Connolly  agreed.  &quot;Yes,  now  she  does-but  she  went  the  hard  way.  I  thought  she  would  never  be  done  dying.  Her  last  words  were  'Will  it  never  end?&quot;  &quot;  Nicolas  asked,  &quot;When  people  die,  they  don't  stay  dead,  do  they?  They  come  again  as  babies?&quot;  No  one  an-  swered  him,  so  he  declared,  &quot;I  would  like  to  die  at  midnight  in  my  sleep.&quot;  Mrs.  Connolly  told  him  sharply,  'You'll  go  when  the  good  Lord  calls  you,  that's  when.  Like  Ma  here.&quot;  All  men  fear  death,  Imogen  mused,  but  what  about  dissolution?  Death  there  had  been,  right  in  this  house;  dissolu-  tion  had  followed  hard  upon  it.  For  the  Connollys  separated  and  their  marriage  was  dissolved.  After  Mrs.  Murphy's  death,  Mrs.  Connolly,  mov-  ing  in  to  take  over  the  house,  had  ex-  plained  her  marital  situation  to  Imogen.  &quot;I  am  a  pigeon  widow,  you  might  say.  All  Mr.  Connolly  ever  thought  about  was  those  damn  birds.  Even  if  he  did  take  me  out  in  the  car  once  in  a  great  while,  the  back  seat  was  always  full  of  cages,  and  both  front  and  back  seats  would  be  covered  with  pigeon  dirt.  He  never  took  me  anyplace  ex-  cept  from  one  pigeon  race  to  another.  And  all  day  Saturday  and  all  day  Sun-  day  he'd  be  on  the  roof-ours  or  a  neighbor's--training  those  damn  birds,  fying  them.  I'm  glad  to  be  back  here,  I  can  tell  you-I  was  just  too  lonesome  living  with  him.&quot;  But  later,  when  he  got  ill,  it  was  she  who  took  him  to  the  doctor,  to  learn  that  he  must  be  operated  on  at  once  for  cancer.  &quot;I'll  get  him  into  the  hospital  tomorrow,  Mrs.  Connolly,&quot;  the  doctor  told  her,  but  Mr.  Connolly  had  dug  his  toes  in  right  there  in  the  doctor's  office.  There  was  something  very  important  he  had  to  do  tomorrow,  he  told  the  doctor,  while  Mrs.  Connolly  declared  loudly  that  he  had  never  had  to  do  anything  important  in  his  whole  life.  When  they  got  outside,  Mr.  Connolly  had  ex-  plained  there  was  a  big  pigeon  race  next  day.  Mrs.  Connolly  had  let  him  go  to  it.  He  had  died  quietly  next  day  under  the  knife.  PIERS  poured  in  the  milk,  then  the  tea.  &quot;I  married  a  milk-firster,&quot;  Imogen  said,  smiling.  How  her  dear  mama  must  be  rolling  around  in  her  grave-  or  did  ashes  not  roll?  &quot;'A  millk-firster  married  me,'  you  should  say,&quot;  Piers  corrected.  &quot;One  way  of  pouring  is  a  solution,  the  other  an  infusion.  The  difference  is  not  so-  cial  but  scientific.&quot;  &quot;How  clever  you  are,&quot;  Imogen  said,  and  sighed.  &quot;How  shall  I  ever  manage  without  you?&quot;  Piers  frowned.  &quot;Have  a  biscuit?&quot;  he  asked.  Imogen  shook  her  head.  &quot;Not  a  Marie?&quot;  Piers  said.  &quot;The  best-though  a  petit  beurre  is  permis-  sible  when  a  Marie  is  unobtainable.  Would  you  like  me  to  read?&quot;  Imogen  nodded  and  handed  him  &quot;Milenda's  Questions.&quot;  He  opened  it,  looking  for  the  place  where  he  had  left  off  yesterday.  Imogen  drank  up  her  tea.  At  the  bottom  of  the  cup  were  tea  leaves.  She  had  never  learned  to  read  them,  though  when  she  was  a  child  Nanny  had  ex-  plained  that  four  in  a  square  meant  a  letter,  four  in  a  row  a  journey.  &quot;  'Now  that  you  are  grown,  Sire,&quot;  Piers  read,  &quot;  'are  you  the  same  as  you  were  when  you  were  a  boy,  young,  tender,  lying  on  your  back??  &quot;'O,  no,  revered  Sire.  That  boy,  young,  tender,  lying  on  his  back,  was  one  thing.  I  who  am  now  full-grown  am  another.&quot;  &quot;  And  have  put  away  childish  things,  Imogen  thought.  But  have  I?Is  that  not  the  crux  of  my  problem?  Is  that  not  why  Piers  is  leaving  me?  Am  I  the  same  I  who  decoded  cables  in  Wash-  ington,  longing  to  be  home  with  Piers?  Am  I  the  I  who  scrubbed  the  floor  while  Peter  ironed  his  shirts  and  Nicolas  did  his  arithmetic?  &quot;Which  do  you  like  best,&quot;  Peter  had  asked  his  brother,  &quot;arithmetic  or  sums?&quot;  And  Nicolas  had  answered,  &quot;Money.&quot;  Were  they  the  same?  Every  bit  of  the  human  body  changed  everyseven  years-not  a  nail,  not  a  piece  of  skin,  not  ahair  was  the  same.  How,  then,  am  I  the  same?  Is  Piers  the  same  man  who  married  me  with  those  great  Anglo-Saxon  double  oaths?  Why  must  he  go?  Why  must  I  stay?  Who  is  it  who  is  going?  Who  staying?  Who  am  I?  Who  is  he?  &quot;You  are  not  attending,&quot;  Piers  said.  &quot;I  shall  stop.&quot;  He  closed  the  book.  Imogen  took  the  tray  from  his  knees  and  slipped  quietly  back  into  the  kitch-  en.  Now  he  would  practice  mental  prayer  for  fifteen  minutes  while  she  dressed,  ran  his  bath,  and  made  the  coffee.  &quot;What  does  one  wear  for  an  execution?&quot;  she  asked  rhetorically,  then  chided  herself.  &quot;Housemaid  again!&quot;  Yet  she  began  to  sniffle.  She  dressed,  brushed  her  hair,  looking  at  her  face  in  the  mirror.  &quot;They  all  saythe  same,&quot;  she  told  herself,  &quot;all  the  saints,&quot;  and  she  thought  of  St.  Paul's  description  of  himself  looking  at  his  face  in  the  mirror,  then  forgetting  immediately  what  he  had  seen.  What  didshe  see?  A  face  that  had  both  faded  and  fattened  into  the  forties,  was  nondescript,  egg-  shaped,  unaccented,  bland.  She  had  " b"never  liked  it  much;  she  despised  it  now.  Her  hair  done,  she  put  on  her  beige  dress.  Piers  passed  her  and  she  asked  him,  &quot;Will  you  zipper  me  up?&quot;  He  did,  and  while  he  was  in  the  bath  she  set  the  table,  cuta  small  melon  in  half.  &quot;''Toast?&quot;  she  called  through  the  bath-  room  door.  &quot;One  slice,  please,&quot;  he  replied.  He  came  out,  glowing,  shaven  and  smil-  ing,  smelling  of  lavender  water.  &quot;Delicious,&quot;  she  said,  sniffing.  &quot;An  anti-aphrodisiac,'&quot;'  he  told  her.  &quot;That's  why  the  English  love  it  so.&quot;  Imogen  slipped  the  bread  into  the  toaster,  poured  his  coffee  and  hot  milk,  then  hers.  &quot;I'm  sorry  I've  been  such  a  lousy  wife,&quot;  she  said  in  a  choked  voice.  Piers  stopped  smiling.  &quot;You  know  the  only  thing  a  man  dislikes  more  in  a  woman  than  B.O.  is  remorse,&quot;  he  said.  He  added,  &quot;You  have  burned  the  toast  again.&quot;  Imogen  took  the  smoking  piece  out  of  the  toaster.  &quot;It  stuck,&quot;  she  apolo-  gized,  giggled  nervously,  then  said,  &quot;You  must  agree  it  takes  near  genius  to  burn  the  toast  in  an  automatic  toast-  er.  I'll  make  you  another  piece.&quot;  &quot;'There  isn't  time,&quot;  Piers  said,  and  took  the  burned  piece  from  her  hand,  buttering  it  and  spreading  Cooper's  Ox-  ford  marmalade  thickly  on  it.  You  masochist,  Imogen  thought,  you  sado-masochist.  Piers  had  never  burned  a  single  bit  of  toast  since  his  Eton  days-his  fagmaster  there  had  taught  him  not  to  the  hard  way.  Why  could  not  she,  too,  make  mistakes  once  only?  Why  was  she  so  chained  and  bound  to  her  clumsiness,  her  incom-  petence,  her  timidity,  her  female  sense  of  inferiority?  Sins,  she  knew,  were  never  held  against  one;  it  was  stupid-  ities  that  destroyed.  As  her  mother  had  often  told  her,  against  stupidity  the  gods  themselves  are  powerless.  Her  mother  had  warned  Imogen,  too,  against  her  naive  good  will,  undigested,  lumpy.  &quot;Surtout  pas  trop  de  z\xc3\xa9le,&quot;  she  had  adjured  her.  But  Imogen  then,  as  always,  had  seen  her  face  clearly  in  the  mirror  one  moment  and  straight-  away  forgotten  what  she  had  seen.  Piers  turned  the  radio  on  for  the  eight-o'clock  world-news  roundup.  Over  the  announcer's  voice  he  said,  &quot;You  must  give  Nicolas  back  that  shirt.  It's  ridiculous  of  him  to  give  me  such  an  expensive  birthday  present  when  he  is  always  asking  you  for  money.  And  besides,  I  have  plenty  of  shirts.&quot;  &quot;Snow  flurries  predicted,&quot;  said  the  announcer.  Perhaps  the  plane  won't  be  able  to  take  off,  Imogen  thought.  Piers  was  still  speaking.  &quot;If  he  takes  it  back  to  the  shop  where  he  bought  it,  they  will  credit  it,  I'm  sure.  I  haven't  taken  it  out  of  the  box.&quot;  &quot;Nicolas's  feelings  will  be  hurt,&quot;  Imogen  said.  &quot;Beware  of  feelings.&quot;  Piers  smiled.  &quot;Didn't  we  read  that  in  some  pious  author?&quot;  &quot;Dom  Chapman,&quot;  Imogen  said.  &quot;Will  you  stay  on  here?&quot;  Piers  asked.  h  &quot;Where  else?  This  is  my  burrow.&quot;  &quot;Aerie,  rather-burrows  aren't  up  sixty-eight  steps,&quot;  Piers  corrected  her.  &quot;I'm  no  eagle,&quot;  Imogen  said.  &quot;Are  you  a  rabbit?&quot;  &quot;I  wish  I  were,&quot;  Imogen  said.  &quot;Then  you  would  love  me.  You  are  so  nice  to  small  and  furry  things.&quot;  There  was  a  sticky  silence.  Piers  is  going  back  to  his  burrow,  Imogen  thought.  To  him  this  has  al-  ways  been  foreign,  alien,  lower-class.  War  and  war's  ending  brought  us  here,  but  today  we  are  notthe  same  people  who  came,.  The  children  are  grown,  and  I  must  grow  up,  too.  Only  I  don't  know  how,  at  my  age.  Or  in  what  direction.  Or  why.  Piers  said,  &quot;You  know  you  can  reach  me  care  of  my  bank  if  you  need  me  for  anything.  We  should  be  going.  Do  &gt;  57     you  really  want  to  come  out  in  this  cold?  I  don't  have  much  luggage  and  could  perfectly  well  pick  up  a  cab.&quot;  &quot;I'd  love  to  drive  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Please  let  me.&quot;  They  went  down  the  stairs,  she  be-  hind  him,  locking  up  as  he  went  on  ahead.  The  car  was  on  the  right  side  of  the  street  for  Tuesday.  &quot;You'll  never  find  another  place  to  park,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Much  better  just  let  me  takea  cab.&quot;  &quot;No,  please,&quot;  she  begged.  &quot;I  want  every  minute  of  your  company  I'm  allowed.&quot;  The  cobbler  opposite,  the  delicatessen  next  him,  and  new  plane  trees  planted  by  the  city  only  last  fall,  Mrs.  Connolly  coming  back  from  early  Mass-Imogen  wished  it  was  not  all  so  ordinary,  so  peaceful.  Why  couldn't  there  be  an  earthquake,  a  hurricane?  It  was  like  any  other  day.  &quot;You're  sure  you  won't  let  me  come,  too?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I'd  so  love  just  to  be  living  in  the  same  city.  Even  in  the  same  coun-  try.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Piers  said.  &quot;You'd  always  be  ringing  up-or  we'd  run  into  each  other,  in  the  bank,  on  a  bus.  I'd  much  rather  not.&quot;  She  stopped  the  car  at  the  side  door  of  556e6974656420537461746573Airlines  Terminal.  He  kissed  her.  &quot;I've  never  loved  any-  one  asI  loved  you,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  got  out.  She  started  the  engine  up  again.  &quot;In-  famous  last  words!&quot;  she  shouted  after  him.  But  he  did  not  turn  his  head. "