 b"THE  first  snowcame  on  a  warm  I  gray  evening-little  balls  of  snow  the  size  of  pinheads,  at  first.  Jim-  my  Paulson  held  out  his  palms  to  them,  and  they  bounced,  stuck,  and  each  with  a  tiny  sting  melted  away  into  a  point  of  moisture  no  bigger  thana  bead  of  mist.  The  air  was  full,  right  up  past  the  houses  and  the  bare,  silent  maple  trees,  full  of  these  quick,  floating  little  balls  of  snow,  and  Jimmy  was  suddenly  hap-  py,  as  he  had  always  been  at  the  first  snow  when  he  was  at  home.  Then  he  remembered  that  he  was  not  home  any-  more  but  in  the  yard  of  this  strange,  old  house  more  than  a  thousand  miles  away  from  Duluth,  from  his  friends  Harold  Johnson  and  Paul  Krause,  even  away  from  himself  as  he  really  was,  the  person  he  had  once  earned  the  right  to  be.  Was  it  snowing  in  Duluth?  Did  this  same  gentle  storm  cover  the  lake,  and  Park  Point,  and  the  North  Shore  where  the  dark  woodscame  down  to  the  lake?  No,  probably  not.  He  knew  better-that  in  between  this  dense  sky  and  thesky  of  [REDACTED]  were  clear,  empty  spaces  impossible  for  him  to  cross.  He  knew  that  his  family  had  left  their  home  and  come  east  to  this  place  of  old  houses  and  fat  trees  because  his  father  had  been  transferred-a  word  that  seemed  dishonorable,  evendan-  gerous.  It  had  been  explained  to  him  that  this  had  really  been  a  promotion  for  his  father,  and  that  the  family  could  now  afford  this  big,  dark  house  on  the  quiet  street.  A  dead-end  street,  his  mother  had  said  with  happiness  in  her  voice;  a  safe  street.  But  still,  this  action,  &quot;transferred,&quot;  which  had  been  done  upon  them  all,  seemed  totally  without  their  consent,  and  made  them  all  smaller  and  tenderer,  diminished  in  the  world.  Where  was  the  lake,  the  fresh,  blue  water  of  Lake  Superior?  They  told  him  the  Atlantic  Ocean  was  not  far  away,  and  they  would  drive  over  to  see  it,  sometime.  But  that  would  be  an  old  salt  sea,  briny  and  green,  not  the  great  lake  he  desired.  It  was  as  if  he  needed  the  lake  in  order  to  breathe,  and  ever  since  he  had  moved  to  New  Hampshire  he  felt  that  something  was  wrong  with  his  body.  He  was  short  of  breath,  and didn't  want  to  eat.  Once,  he  had  vomited  for  no  reason,  and  criedfor  no  reason.  In  school,  his  classmates  talked  with  hard,  dry  voices,  and  said  words  like  &quot;modren&quot;  for  &quot;modern,&quot;  and  &quot;idear&quot;  for  &quot;idea.&quot;  They  put  &quot;r''s  where  none  belonged  and  left  them  off  where  they  should  have  been,  and  had  strange,  stiff  ways  of  moving,  as  though  they  were  being  watched  by  enemies.  The  school  playground  was  nothing  but  hard  dirt  and  worn  tree  roots  that  came  to  the  surface  and  froze,  helpless  under  the  grinding  feet  of  the  children.  No  one  spoke,  or  could  knowhow  to  speak,  in  the  close  and  funny  language  of  his  friends  Harold  and  Paul,  who  perhaps  right  now  walked  through  another  snow,  and  jumped  over  barberry  bushes  now  powdering  in  the  soft  Duluth  eve-  ning.  This  was  to  have  been  the  winter  of  the  fifth  grade,  when  their  ages  changed  from  one  digit  to  two  and  they  became  the  princes  of  boyhood.  Ten.  'Ten,&quot;  he  said  out  loud,  and  the  word  was  lostin  the  dark  street  where  the  snow,  now  changing  into  soft  flakes,  seemed  against  the  bulk  of  his  family's  new  but  old,  old  house  to  be  a  snow  that  had  happened  back  in  his-  tory  sometime,  long  before  he  was  born.  He  entered  the  house  quietly,  hear-  ing  his  mother  in  the  kitchen,  and  went  up  to  his  room,  where  most  of  his  things  still  sat  in  boxes.  Some  were  toys,  like  Mr.  Machine,  now  much  too  young  for  him.  Arranged  around  the  room  in  odd  piles  were  his  books,  now  stacked  more  by  size  than  subject  mat-  ter,  so  that  a  book  on  tunnels  was  on  top  of  &quot;The  Wind  in  the  Willows,&quot;  and  his  dictionary  lay  on  a  Sears,  Roe-  buck  catalogue.  His  best  airplane  mod-  els  had  suffered  minor  damage,  and  he  could  have  fixed  them  easily,  yet  a  bent  landing  gear  or  a  broken  tail  now  seemed  a  fatal  injury,  as  though  it  had  been  a  disaster  of  flight,  and  the  plane  had  crashed.  His  paper  wasp  nest  was  partly  squashed,  and  lay  next  to  a  plastic  globe  of  the  world  that  was  smudged  at  the  point  of  Lake  Superior,  where  his.  finger  had  so  many  times  pressed  against  Duluth.  Again  the  sick-  ish  tiredness  came  over  him;  he  sat  on  his  bed  staring  at  the  striped  wall-  paper,  his  eyes  sliding  quickly  out  of  fo-  cus,  and  wished  to  be  where  he  could  not  be.  His  father's  new  car  came  down  the  street  and  turned  into  the  driveway,  muffled  by  the  snow,  and  the  garage  door  rumbled  down  and  locked  with  a  thump  before  his  father's  heavy  steps  came  into  the  kitchen.  " b"Harry  and  Ruth  Paul-  son  had  noticed  the  change  in  their  son,  and  had  worried  about  it,  and  talked  it  over.  It  was  a  difficult  adjustment  for  him,  they  agreed.  Harry  went  to  hang  his  coat  in  the  hall  closet,  and  came  back  into  the  kitchen.  &quot;Is  he  home  yet?&quot;  he  asked  hopefully.  They  both  hoped  Jimmy  would  find  a  friend  and  come  home  late  for  supper  one  of  these  nights,  the  way  he  frequently  had  back  in  Duluth.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  Ruth  said.  She  missed  Du-  luth,  too,  and  her  friends  there,  but  she'd  been  so  busy  fixing  up  the  new  house  she  hadn't  had  much  time  to  think  about  it.  What  people  she'd  met  seemed  quite  friendly.  Everybody  moved  these  days;  she'd  read  that  one  out  of  three  Ameri-  can  families  moved  every  year.  But  that,  she  thought,  did  not  alter  the  fact  of  her  son's  sadness.  She  would  try  to  make  this  house  into  a  home  for  him.  She  would  scrape  it,  and  paint  it,  and  buy  pretty  curtains  forthe  windows.  They  would  all  sit  in  the  long  living  room,  on  the  new  furniture,  and  look  at  the  fire.  She  had  a  lot  to  do,  but  she  would  do  it.  And  when  the  house  was  perfect,  then  they  could  all  begin  to  live  in  it.  &quot;He'll  snap  out  of  it.  You'll  see,&quot;  Harry  said.  &quot;I  think  he's  home,&quot;  Ruth  said.  Harry  went  upstairs  to  see,  and  found  his  son  sitting  on  the  bed,  his  coat  still  on.  &quot;Jimmy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yeah,  Dad.&quot;  &quot;You  feel  all  right?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(Sure.\xe2\x80\x99)  &quot;I  mean,  I  know  how  hard  it  is  to  ...&quot;  To  what?  Harry  thought.  &quot;To  adjust  to  a  new  place.&quot;  He  could  al-  most  hear  the  word  through  his  son's  ears:  adjust.  It  seemed  a  bad  thing  to  have  to  do.  (\xe2\x80\x98DadP\xe2\x80\x997  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  it's  snowing  in  Du-  luth?&quot;  Actually,  Harry  had  worked  like  hell  in  Duluth,  especially  in  the  last  five  years,  and  the  town  might  just  as  well  have  been  Des  Moines  orAtlanta,  for  all  the  time  he'd  had  to  think  about  it.  He  had  grown  up  in  Duluth,  though, and  for  just  one  moment  he  did  feel  his  son's  homesickness,  just  a  flash  of  it,  and  then  it  faded  and  was  gone.  It  must  have  been  a  memory  of  some  time  in  his  childhood,  a  memory  of  a  memo-  ry.  What  he  could  see  was  that  Jimmy  was  listless  and  unhappy-that  was  plain  enough.  &quot;Do  you  think  it's  snowing  in  Du-  luth?&quot;  Jimmy  asked  again,  his  thin  face  turned  toward  the  window,  &quot;It  might  be,  but  I  don'tthink  it  would  be  the  same  storm.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  guess  not.&quot;  Jimmy's  hands,  still  in  his  mittens,  lay  palms  up  in  his  lap.  His  arms  seemed  so  listless  that  Harry  could  believe  he'd  lost  the  power  to  raise  them,  and  moved  by  Jimmy's  sadness  he  began  again  to  feel  that  wisp  of  memory  of  his  own  childhood.  They  had  lived  on  Park  Point,  between  the  bay  and  the  lake,  on  the  bay  side  of  the  narrow  point  of  sand.  In  the  winter,  the  snow  sometimes  drifted  as  high  as  the  trolley  wires,  and  the  house  creaked  and  moved  in  theblizzards  that  roared  in  from  the  lake  and  tried  to  push  them  into  the  bay.  He'd  lie  in  bed,  just  on  the  edge  of  real  fear,  and  try  to  hold  the  house  down  upon  its  precarious  founda-  tion.  Now,  just  for  a  flash,  just  for  the  smallest  instant,  he  was  filled  with  the  unbearable  pleasureof  memory.  &quot;You'd  better  get  ready  for  dinner,&quot;  he  said.  Jimmy  nodded,  and  began,  slowly  and  weakly,  to  pull  his  mittens  off.  At  supper,  he  was  almost  too  polite,  and  ate  very  little.  After  supper  he  went  right  to  his  room,  and  Harry  and  Ruth  remained  silent  at  the  table.  KL  that  night  it  snowed.  The  snow  drifted  softly  over  the  house,  sometimes  ticking  lightly  against  the  windows.  Down  through  the  bare  trees  it  came,  to  fill  up  the  lawn  and  cov-  er  over  the  street.  On  the  spruce  and  pine  at  the  end  of  the  street,  it  stopped,  then  sifted  down  through  the  dark  branches  that  seemed  almost  unbe-  lievably  green  where  the  street  light  touched  them.  Jimmy  stood  at  his  win-  dow,  wrapped  in  a  blanket.  He'd  awakened  at  four  in  the  morning  and  smelled  the  snow,  somehow-or  may-  be  it  was  the  hard  dryness  of  his  radi-  ator,  which  was  too  hot  to  touch.  Then  he  heard  the  softness  of  the  snow.  At  first,  there  was  his  happiness  about  the  first  snow  of  the  year,  and  then  it  seemed  too  cruel  that  he  was  far  from  home  in  this  foreign  place-like  the  dream  in  which  it  is  your  father  stand-  ing  in  the  dark  and  you  are  so  relieved,  until  he  turns  and  it  is  not  your  father  at  all.  The  snowplow  trucks  had  long  been  out.  He  heard  on  other  streets  their  muffled  boom  and  scrape,  and  after  a  while  one  came  slowly  down  his  street,  snow  streaming  across  its  dim  head-  lights,  its  weight  felt  in  the  timbers  of  the  house,  and  shoved  its  great  wave  of  seething  snow  into  the  trees  at  the  dead  end;  then  it  backed,  turned,  and  pushed  back  up  the  street.  The  snow  still  whirled  down  invisibly  until  it  fell  below  the  street  light,  where  it  turned  white  " b"and  glided  into  the  pureness  of  the  ground.  In  a  few  minutes,  the  street  was  as  smooth  as  it  had  been  before.  Jimmy  went  back  to  bed,  but  lay  awake,  and  later  the  great  truck  came  back  down  the  street.  He  must  have  slept,  although  the  night  seemed  very  long,  and  each  time  the  plow  rumbled  and  boomed  he  half  waked.  In  the  morning,  as  he  lay  drugged  and  un-  rested  in  the  warm  bed,  he  wondered  if  he  had  heard  the  plow  three  times  or  a  hundred  times.  With  the  sheet  over  his  eyes,  so  close  his  eyelashes  touched  it,  he  stared  into  whiteness.  What  if  the  snow  had  come  up  like  this  over  his  windows,  over  the  house,  pure  and  white  and  soft  as  blindness?  The  street  would  have  to  be  a  tunnel,  then,  and  the  whole  town  subterranean.  He  pulled  the  sheet  away  from  his  eyes  and  looked;  the  snow  still  fell  past  his  win-  dow.  A  toilet  flushed,  and  then  his  parents  spoke  softlyin  the  hall  as  they  moved  past  his  door.  It  was  Saturday,  and  they  didn't  want  to  wake  him  be-  cause  he  had  looked  thin  and  tired.  He  knew  they  were  worried  about  him,  and  he  was  vaguely  sorry  about  that,  but  ever  since  they  had  all  been  trans-  ferred  away  from  home,  his  parents'  authority,  even  the  strength  of  his  con-  cern  for  them,  seemed  to  have  lost  importance.  It  was  as  if  they  were  all  merely  puppets,  moved  by  someone  else's  hand.  Late  in  the  morning,  he  got  up  and  went  downstairs  in  his  pajamas  and  bathrobe.  The  dry  air  in  his  room  had  made  him  thirsty,  and  he  had  a  glass  of  milk.  His  mother  wanted  to  make  him  scrambled  eggs,  which  he  usually  liked,  but  he  didn't  want  any.  She  seemed  upset  by  this,  and  even  in  his  own  mind,  as  he  examined  the  vision  ofa  plate  of  scrambled  eggs,  yellow  folds  steaming,  he  wondered  how  they  could  seem  chalky  and  strange-too  strange  to  cat.  &quot;Isn'tthe  snow  nice?&quot;  his  mother  asked.  &quot;You  love  the  snow.&quot;  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  he  said,  but  this  was  not  his  snow.  It  had  come  unhoped  for,  with  neither  his  joy  nor  his  permission.  All  Saturday  it  snowed,  and  the  plow  returned  several  times.  Instead  of  their  shovelling  the  driveway  themselves,  as  he  and  his  father  had  done  on  their  steep  streetin  Duluth,  a  jeep  came  and  plowed  them  out.  That  evening  the  jeep  had  to  come  again,  and  with  a  great  many  backings  and  turnings  did  a  mammoth  but  sloppy  job  on  the  driveway.  When  the  town  plow  came  back,  it  pushed  everything  down  into  the  trees.  After  supper,  a  big  yellow  loader  came,  and  with  its  scoop  piled  the  snow  higher  against  the  evergreens,  until  their  tops  were  like  Christmas  trees  growing  on  a  white  hill.  The  pile  was  at  least  fifteen  feet  high.  On  Sunday  morning,  the  TV  said   New  Hampshire  had  received  twenty-  five  inches  of  snow,  and  though  it  had  begun  to  taper  off,  there  would  be  no  school  in  many  towns  on  Monday.  Later,  the  local  radio  station  said  that  Leah  was  one  of  those  towns;  the  school  buses  would  not  be  able  to  get  through  to  the  outlying  roads  of  the  school  district  for  at  least  another  day.  That  morning,  Jimmy  felt  tired.  His  arms  almost  ached-seemed  just  on  the  verge  of  pain  whenever  he  moved  them.  He  sat  watching  televi-  sion,  and  afterward  couldn't  remember  what  he'd  seen.  His  mother  asked  him  why  he  didn't  unpack  his  things  and  arrange  his  room-it  was  so  much  nicer  than  the  little  room  he'd  had  back  in  Duluth.  He  said  he  might,  but  merely  went  upstairs  and  sat  on  his  bed  for  a  while.  When  he  stood  up,  he  looked  out  the  window  at  the  huge  pile  of  snow  the  loader  had  made;  he  had  never  seen  so  much  snow  piled  so  high  in  one  heap-a  mountain  of  snow.  He  thought  of  the  buried  trees  de-  scending  like  elevators  down  into  the  white,  deep  into  a  kind  of  blankness,  where  all  was  pure  and  new.  A  little  shiver  of  excitement  startled  him,  be-  cause  he  wasn't  sure  what  had  caused  it.  That  pureness,  like  a  piece  of  white  paper  to  draw  on,  where  you  alone  run  the  pencil  that  carves  out  the  world  from  the  flatness  of  it.  But  why  should  he  care,  all  of  a  sudden?  He  knew  only  that  in  the  deep  pile  existed  possi-  bilities  for  him,  perhaps  a  way  to  change  his  weakness  back  into  some  kind  of  action,  and  so  he  put  on  his  long  under-  wear  and  ski  pants,  then  went  down-  stairs  and  took  his  rubber  boots  from  the  hall  closet  into  the  kitchen.  He  knew  his  mother  was  happy  to  see  him  want  to  go  outside-she  made  sure  that  he  had  his  Mackinaw  buttoned,  tucked  his  scarf  in  around  his  neck,  and  didn't  ask  him  where  he  was  going.  He  remembered  having  seen  some-  thing  on  the  back  wall  of  the  garage  that  had  not  been  too  interesting,  but  now  he  went  out  to  look  at  it  more  closely.  It  was  a  little  folding  shovel,  and  he  knew  from  television  that  in  the  Army  it  was  called  an  entrenching  tool,  used  by  soldiers  to  dig  foxholes.  It  even  had  a  green  canvas  scabbard  he  could,  with  some  bending  of  the  wire  clasps,  hitch  onto  his  belt.  Some  previous  tenant  of  the  house  had  hung  it  on  the  wall  and  left  it-he  knew  it  didn't  belong  to  his  father-and  so  without  asking  he  took  it  for  his  own.  He  approached  the  snow  pile  cir-  cumspectly;  he  wondered  about  this,  too,  for  he  had  every  right  to  examine  it,  and  no  other  children  lived  on  the  " b"street.  Slowly  he  pushed  through  the  light  snow,  waist  high  in  places,  around  the  back  of  the  garage,  through  the  trees,  so  that  he  came  onto  the  pile  from  the  rear,.  The  snow  wall,  much  harder  than  the  snow  that  had  merely  fallen  of  its  own  weight,  rose  up  before  him,  laced  by  green  branches.  At  the  baseof  a  pine  tree,  the  branches  had  caused  a  natural  tunnel,  and  he  got  down  on  his  knees  to  look  into  it.  The  light  came  through  the  walls,  softly,  and  all  around  him  the  snow  breathed  clean  cold  onto  his  face.  After  a  few  feet,  the  tunnel  came  to  nothing;  he  crawled  inside,  on  his  knees  on  the  pine  needles  sifted  over  with  light  snow,  and  he  couldn't  even  turn  around.  He  began  digging  merely  to  make  the  tun-  nel  big  enough  so  he  wouldn't  have  to  back  into  it  in  order  to  see  the  opening  from  the  inside,  but  the  snow  cleaved  off  so  easily,  and  the  wall  he  began  to  carve  with  the  green  blade  of  his  shovel  was  so  much  his  own  smooth  creation,  he  kept  on  until  he  had  nowhere  to  put  the  snow.  It  would  take  too  long  to  kick  it  out  the  door,  and  he'd  get  snow  up  his  waist,  so  he  struggled  out  into  the  daylight  again,  in  his  nose  the  smell  of  snow,  like  cold  water.  He  needed  other  tools-a  cardboard  box  to  put  the  snow  in,  and  he  could  slide  it  out  easily;  plenty  of  boxes  were  in  the  basement,  left  over  from  moving.  He  didn't  want  to  have  to  go  back  to  the  house-there  was  even  some  reluctance  to  make  his  trail  plain,  as  though  he  might  be  followed  and  ob-  served.  But  he  needed  the  box,  and  he  did  go  back,  successfully  unseen-  his  mother  was  upstairs-and  found  a  good  box,  narrow  and  long,  and  not  too  high.  This  he  carried  back  above  the  snow,  so  as  not  to  leave  an  imprint  of  its  smoothness  or  its  square  corners  anywhere,  and  he  felt  relief  when  the  branches  closed  over  him  again.  Farther  in-  side  the  tunnel  he  felt  even  more  safe,  and  with  each  carving  stroke  of  his  shovel  his  safety  seemed  to  in-  crease:  the  room  grew  in  volume.  Bluish  light  came  down  through  the  arched  ceiling,  and  as  he  moved  the  end  wall  past  the  tree  the  room  grew  lighter.  By  four  o'clock,  as  the  light  be-  gan  to  fade,  his  room  was  five  feet  wide,  and  nearly  five  feet  high  at  the  top  of  the  arch.  Carefully  he  cleaned  the  floor  and  sharpened  the  corners,  then  pushed  the  box  outside  along  its  smooth  worn  track,  to  empty  it  again.  As  the  last  light  faded,  he  returned  to  sit  in  his  snow  room;  quietly  the  cold  moved  out  of  the  walls  and  surrounded  him,  yet  he  was  not  cold.  Before  he  left,  he  put  the  shovel  and  the  box  inside  and  carefully  covered  the  entrance  with  blocks  of  snow.  That  evening,  his  father  asked  him  what  he'd  done  all  day,  and  he  said  he'd  watched  television  and  then  played  in  the  snow  for  a  while.  As  he  lay  in  bed  that  night  waiting  for  sleep,  he  seemed  to  be  in  the  snowroom  again,  and  it  was  huge  as  a  cavern.  He  could  look  up  the  wall,  higher  than  houses,  and  see  the  smooth  strokes  carved  by  his  shovel.  The  great  strokes  had  smoothed  a  wall  high  as  a  palisade.  In  the  morning,  he  woke  at  the  first  light.  His  hands  and  armswere  sore,  yet  seemed  stronger,  and  a  sense  of  urgency,  not  happy  but  at  least  pur-  poseful,  made  him  get  out  of  bed  im-  mediately.  He  gathered  his  clothes  as  quietly  as  possible  and  went  down  to  the  kitchen  to  dress.  Though  he  wasn't  hungry,  he  decided  to  eat  a  bowl  of  cereal;  he  must  leave  evidence  that  he  had  eaten,  and  also  he  knew  that  his  body  needed  the  food.  This  was  a  strange  idea  he  had  never  worked  upon  himself  before;  he  had  been  forced  to  eat  things  that  were  good  for  him,  car-  rots  and  cauliflower  and  other  things  that  seemed  to  grow  in  the  mouth,  but  now  by  his  own  choice  he  ate  without  hunger,  so  that  he  could  go  to  his  snow  room  without  being  followed,  and  have the  strength  to  work.  This  deliberate  treatment  of  his  body,  without  the  sim-  ple  desire  of  appetite,  was  so  new  it  seemed  dangerous,  and  he  shivered  for  a  moment  with  a  fear  like  the  tingle  of  falling.  As  another  precaution  he  tore  a  piece  of  paper  from  the  grocery-list  pad  and  wrote  anote:  Dear  Mother  and  Dad,  I  have  gone  out  to  play  in  the  snow.  love,  Jimmy  Paulson  Later,  Harry  and  Ruth  examined  the  note.  &quot;That's  a  good  sign,  I'd  say,&quot;  Harry  said.  &quot;I  wish  he  had  a  friend,&quot;  Ruth  said.  &quot;I  wish  some  other  children  lived  on  the  street.  Do  you  have  to  go  to  work  this  morning?  You  could  do  something  with  him-play  with  him  or  something.  Go  skating.&quot;  &quot;There's  no  skating  with  this  snow.  Anyway,  it  hasn't  been  cold  long  enough  to  freeze  the  rink.&quot;  &quot;You  could  do  something  with  him.&quot;  &quot;You  know  I  have  to  go  to  work,&quot;  Harry  said,  with  some  of  his  impatience  showing.  He  felt  guilty-a  little  guilty-and  it  seemed  mostly  Ruth's  fault.  &quot;I'm  responsible  for  the  whole  plant  now.  You  know  that.  Things  no  one  else  can  do.&quot;  &quot;You  go  away  on  Saturdays,  on  Sundays.  You  go  down  there.  When  does  he  get  to  see  you?&quot;  &quot;Ruth,  I  have  to.  I  simply  have  to,  now.  Later  on,  I'll  getthings  organized,  but  now  there  are  so  many  things.&quot;  &quot;We  could  have  stayed  in  Duluth!&quot;  she  said,  and  began  to  cry.  He  wanted  to  tell  her  the  facts  of  life-that  when  a  man  is  offered  a  pro-  " b"motion  and  refuses,  or  even  hesitates,  he  is  through.  They  couldn't  have  stayed  in  Duluth.  That  was  absolutely  impossible.  But  he'd  told  her  all  this  be-  fore,  in  calmer  circumstances.  He  went  to  work  leaving  everything  like  that.  JIMMY  began  to  carve  a  door  upon  the  rear  wall  of  his  snow  room.  He  made  the  lintel,  then  the  sides,  care-  fully  cutting  a  sharp  edge  all  around,  even  where  the  plow  had  folded  some  sand  into  the  snow,  and  then  shaved  down  the  center  of  the  door  until  it  stood  upon  the  wall  with  the  authority  of  its  squareness.  It  seemed  a  door  he  might  simply  open,  if  he  knew  how,  and  then  he  might  walk  through  it  into  that  perfect  uncreated  world  be-  yond.  When  he  pushed  the  box  full  of  snow  out  into  the  sunlight,  he  was  blinded,  and  couldn't  keep  his  eyes  open.  Then,  when  he  pushed  the  box  ahead  of  him  back  into  the  hole,  it  was  almost  too  dark  to  see,  and  his  new  door  seemed  just  too  primitive-only  some  marks  upon  thewall.  He  would  have  to  have  light,  and  immediately  he  remem-  bered  the  red  candles  that  had  been  stored  so  near  a  radiator  they  had  melt-  ed  over  upon  themselves  into  jointed-  looking  shapes.  They  were  somewhere  in  the  basement,  in  a  shoebox;  they  would  never  be  used,  yet  never  thrown  away,  and  he  knew  he  could  have  them.  He  would  need  the  light,  because  he  felt  certain  he  was  going  beyond  the  carved  door,  deep  into  the  interior  of  that  place  he  almost  knew  already.  Why  was  he  sure,  forinstance,  that  the  door  entered  immediately  upon  a  pas-  sage,  and  not  another  room?  And  at  the  end  of  the  passage,  another  door  led  to  a  vast  place  of  light,  where  he  could  breathe  freely  again  and  not  be  sick.  He  knelt  in  the  dim  cave,  tasting  the  bitter  dye  of  his  mitten;  he  wanted  only  to  pass  into  that  place,  but  he  had  to  wonder  about  himself,  and  for  the  last  time  to  speculate  upon  his  belief  in  such  childish  magic.  No,  it  was  there,  and  therefore  true;  how  could  he  not  believe  it?  The  world  was  there,  wait-  ing  to  be  defined  by  his  own  hands.  Now  he  would  have  to  get  to  work;  he  needed  the  candles,  so  he  must  go  out  into  the  sunlight  of  the  unhappy  town  and  go  back  to  the  big  house  for  a  while.  He  would  have  to  take  time  out  for  lunch,  too,  because  of  his  mother.  He  wasn't  worried  that  she  would  come  out  to  see  what  he  was  doing,  because  she  wasn't  the  kind  of  person  who  ever  left  the  sidewalk  to  go  out  into  the  snow.  She  wouldn't  even  have  the  right  kind  of  boots  for  that.  Then,  after  that  delay,  he  could  come  back  to  this  real  work.  HEN  Harry  Paulson  got  home  from  work  that  evening,  Ruth  opened  the  kitchen  door  before  he  could  put  his  hand  on  the  knob,  and  stood  there  dramatically,  her  hands  flickering  across  her  face.  &quot;It's  dark,  and  he's  still  out  there  by  himself!  What  can  he  be  doing  in  the  dark?&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  he's  all  right,&quot;  Harry  said,  but  he  turned  to  go  and  see.  In  the  ga-  rage,  he  met  Jimmy  coming  in,  and  pretended  to  look  for  something  in  the  car.  Then,  because  he  had  falsified  his  intentions,  he  couldn't  ask  Jimmy  what  he'd  been  doing.  Ruth  did,  though.  &quot;I'm  building  something,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  To  Harry  he  seemed  not  so  much  what  evasive  as  simply  bored  by  their  interest.  &quot;What  are  you  building?&quot;  Ruth  asked.  &quot;Sort  of  a  fort.  You  know,&quot;  Jimmy  said  wearily.  &quot;You're  all  wet!&quot;  &quot;Now,  Ruth,&quot;  Harry  said.  &quot;Natu-  rally  he's  going  to  get  wet  in  the  snow.&quot;  &quot;But  he  hasn't  been  feeling  well!&quot;  &quot;I  feel  fine,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  &quot;He  doesn't  look  fine.  He  looks  pale,  and  he  doesn't  eat  enough.  I  made  him  a  sandwich  for  lunch  and  I  found  most  of  it  in  the  garbage  can.&quot;  &quot;I  ate  the  meat  out  of  it,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  You've  got  to  eat  more.  You've  got  to  go  to  school  tomorrow,  and  you  look  so  tired  and  thin!&quot;  Ruth's  voice  quavered,  Harry  stood  by,  helpless.  He  felt  that  he  should  be  the  one  to  understand  his  own  son.  He'd  always  seemed  to  before.  But  now  this  strangeness  came  up  in  front  of  him-this  and  other  things-and  they  seemed  beyond  un-  derstanding.  Jimmy  sat  down  on  the  kitchen  floor  and  began  topull  off  his  boots,  and  Harry  could  at  least  help  with  that.  As  he  pulled  at  Jimmy's  boots,  the  little  boy  seemed  as  light  as  cloth,  and  Harry  had  to  hold  him  by  his  skinny  knee  with  one  hand  and  pull  a  boot  off  with  the  other.  Jimmy  lay  back  passive-  ly  and  let  this  be  done.  " b"&quot;You'll  have  a  hot  bath  before  supper,&quot;  Ruth  said.  &quot;Look  at  his  feet.  They're  practically  blue!&quot;  &quot;'T  hat's  only  stain  from  my  socks,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  He  was  calm,  and  went  upstairs  in  his  underwear,  slowly  for  him.  He  actual-  ly  walked.  Harry  could  not  remember  seeing  Jim-  my  walk  up  any  stairs  be-  fore,  and  he  was  not  so  old  himself  he  couldn't  remember  the  time  when  he  never  walked  up  the  stairs  but  always  took  them  at  a  run.  When  did  it  happen,  that  great  change  in  him?  It  seemed  such  an  important  point  in  his  life  that  he  felt  he  should  remember  the  ex-  act  set  of  stairs,  and  the  very  hour  in  which  he  had  lost  that  easy  lightness  in  his  body.  After  getting  into  the  tub,  Jimmy  lay  back  in  the  hot  water  that  burned  quickly  at  his  skin  and  then  was  merely  thick  and  warm.  The  back  of  the  tub  seared  his  shoulders  with  ice,  and  that  changed,  too,  so  that  in  a  moment  he  lay  sus-  pended  in  warmth  so  benevolent  the  water  seemed  part  of  him,  as  though  it  moved  easily  through  the  pores  of  his  skin.  He  thought  of  a  reptile  sunning  on  a  rock,  having  to  be  no  more  than  an  extension  of  the  temperature  of  the  world,  and  when  the  world  cooled,  he  cooled,  and  still  felt  nothing,  any  more  than  the  rock  itself  felt  its  changes  and  retractions.  He  went  to  sleep,  and  woke  soon  after  in  slightly  cooler  water.  This  he  knew,  but  seemed  to  feel  no  heat,  no  cold.  He  thought  of  all  the  things  he  knew.  He  knew  so  many  things.  Why  up  was  the  same  as  down,  how  he  lived  on  a  planet  smaller  than  a  mote  of  dust,  all  alone  in  indifferent  space  so  wide  that  in  the  reaches  of  his  mind,  when  he  tried  to  conceive  of  it,  his  imagination  slid  over  the  smooth  edge  of  eternity  and  fell  forever.  Yet  came  back,  somehow-wes  back  inside  his  head,  fragile  and  illusive.  He  dreamed  of  cloud  walls  all  around  him  that  turned  and  were  cleaved,  and  he  moved  down  a  long  passage  his  mind  projected  as  if  it  were  a  light  sharp  as  blades.  Soon  the  walls  ended  in  folds  and  misty  geysers  that  shot  away  violently  and  disappeared,  and  there  was  the  dark,  warm  city,  at  Christmas,  with  the  snow  drifting  off the  lake.  He  descended  at  his  will,  down  into  Lester  Park  among  the  tall  pines-the  three  boys  coming  home  late,  wet,  warm,  cheering  the  snow,  planning  labyrinths,  invincible  in  their  understanding.  Their  laughter  turned  visible,  like  sparks  and  flames  in  the  falling  snow.  Blue,  red,  green-the  colors  of  Christmas.  &quot;Yay!&quot;  he  heard  them  yell,  faintly,  as  they  crossed  the  bridge  over  the  river  that  splashed  in  the  dark  down  toward  the  lake.  As  their  yells  and  laughter  faded  home-  ward  across  the  park,  his  heart  turned  inside  out  with  love.  URING  the  next  few  days,  Harry  began  to  worry  about  what,  ex-  actly,  it  was  that  kept  Jimmy  out  until  suppertime  each  night.  He'd  come  right  home  from  school,  change  his  clothes,  and  work  on  whatever  it  was,  out  there,  on  into  the  dark.  He  looked  exhausted,  yet  he  spent  all  of  his  after-school  time  out  there  in  the  snow.  All  he  would  say  was  that  he  was  building  a  fort  of  some  kind.  On  Friday  morning,  Harry  went  to  the  plant  with  a  slightly  queasy  feeling  because  he  had  to  fire  two  men.  One  was  a  maintenance  man,  a  carpenter.  He  took  it  as  if  he  had  expected  it  all  the  time,  but  the  other  man  was  an  assistant  in  purchasing,  who  said  in  a  surprised,  shocked  voice  that  he  had  never  &quot;got  let  go&quot;  before  from  any  job.  Harry  told  him  that  it  wasn't  a  matter  of  his  competence  but  one  of  organization.  This  was  not  exactly  true,  and  after  the  man  had  left  his  office  Harry's  head  began  to  throb  and  he  felt  vaguely  nauseated.  He  told  his  secretary  he'd  be  back  after  lunch,  and  went  home.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  sneaky,&quot;  he  said  to  Ruth,  &quot;but  I've  got  to  see  what  Jimmy's  doing  out  there.  He  won't  tell  me  anything.&quot;  &quot;I'm  so  worried  about  him,&quot;  Ruth  said.  &quot;He  used  to  be  such  a  normal  boy.  He  used  to  be  so  happy  with  us.&quot;  Harry  put  on  a  pair  of  old  pants,  a  Mackinaw,  and  boots.  He  didn't  in-  tend  to  tell  Jimmy  he'd  gone  to  look,  if  he  could  get  away  with  it,  and  again  he  had  the  queasy  feeling  that  came  from  deception.  Had  there  ever  been  a  time  in  his  life  when  he  lived  sim-  ply,  and  never  had  to  tell  anything  but  the  truth?  He  couldn't  remember,  but  there  must  have  been  such  an  in-  nocent  time-a  time  before  it  had  be-  come  necessary  to  manipulate,  to  be  devious.  Was  it  in  his  childhood?  No,  he  could  not  honestly  say  that;  there  had  always  been  secrets  to  be  kept.  And  yet  he  had  a  twinge  of  yearning  for  such  a  time-also  a  moment  of  fear,  as  though  he  had  gone  out  just  too  far  on  thin  ice,  and  yearned  for  the  shore.  Jimmy's  path  led  around  back  of  the  garage  into  the  trees.  Its  bottom  was  smooth  and  hard,  and  Harry  didn't  have  to  worry  about  leaving  tracks;  he  needn't  have  changed  his  clothes,  he  " b"thought,  and  began  to  make  little  of  his  spying.  He'd  just  look,  turn  around,  and  come  back.  But  at  the  end  of  the  path  he  found  only  unorganized  piles  of  snow  around  the  main  pile  made  by  the  plow.  Nothing.  Then  he  saw  that  certain  tracks,  or  more  permanent  depressions,  seemed  to  lead  to  one  place,  though  an  attempt  had  been  made  to  disguise  this.  Two  big  discs  of  snow  hid  a  door,  and  as  Harry  moved  them  carefully  aside,  knowing  that  he  would  remember  exactly  how  they  had  been  placed,  his  guilt  came  back;  this  place  was  really  meant  to  be  a  secret.  Now  he  could  never  talk  to  Jimmy  about  It.  He  got  down  on  his  hands  and  knees  and  looked  inside.  Dim  light  came  from  above,  bluish  white.  The  interior  seemed  very  large,  and  across  the  room  an  arched  doorway  led  into  sheer  blackness.  He  would  be  required  to  do  more  than  just  look,  and  he  was  a  little  afraid.  'This  place  could  be  physically  dangerous  to  Jimmy,  he  sup-  posed,  but  that  wasn't  what  occupied  him  now,  or  caused  any  of  his  fear.  As  he  crawled  inside,  the  blue  sur-  rounded  him-this  strange  room  cre-  ated  by  his  son;  in  a  brutal  way,  he  seemed  to  be  entering  his  son's  mind,  that  protected  place  that  had  always  seemed  so  large  in  proportion  to  the  little  boy's  mere  body.  Harry's  knees  made  dents  upon  the  floor.  On  each  side  of  the  room,  red  candles  stood  in  niches  carved  from  the  walls,  and  in  a  long  cardboard  box  he  found  the  en-  trenching  tool  that  used  to  hang  on  the  rear  wall  of  the  garage.  He  remem-  bered  the  half-melted  candles  now.  And  the  entrenching  tool.  He  had  nev-  er  missed  it  at  all,  and  this  seemed  not  only  a  dereliction  of  his  observation  but  a  dereliction  of  his  love.  In  order  to  see  past  the  arched  door-  way,  he  had  to  take  one  of  the  candles  and  light  it.  The  walls  turned  warmly  white,  and  he  saw  how  carefully  they  had  been  smoothed  and  made  square.  He  couldn't  go  down  the  farther  pas-  sage  because  the  sill  was  raised,  and  his  weight  would  squash  the  whole  floor  down.  But  he  could  look  down  that  hallway  to  its  end,  which  was  obviously  unfinished.  Where  would  it  go?  Where  did  Jimmy  want  to  go  down  there?  God,  it  was  a  marvellous  and  scary  place,  this  sculptured  cave,  and  how  proud  a  boy  would  be  of  it!  But  Jim-  my  had  done  it  all  alone,  for  his  own  lonely  purposes,  and  Harry  felt  awe  for  his  son's  determination.  Kids  just  didn't  stick  to  anything  this  long,  or  work  so  hard.  Then  he  had,  again,  the  hollow,  painful  fegling  that  he  could  now  see  what  he  would  never  be  told.  This  dark  cave.  Yes,  it  was  a  marvel-  lous  cave,  but  he  knew  Jimmy  never  intended  to  show  it  to  him.  He  put  the  candle  back,  and  blew  it  out,  then  tried  to  erase  all  the  signs  of  his  intrusion.  With  his  fists  he  beat  out  the  impressions  his  knees  had  made  in  the  floor,  and  when  he  came  out  into  daylight  again  he  took  a  long  time  to  hide  the  entrance  exactly  as  Jimmy  had.  &quot;It's  a  snow  cave,  sort  of,&quot;  he  said  to  Ruth  when  he  returned  to  the  house.  &quot;You  won't  mention  to  Jimmy  that  I've  seen  it.&quot;  &quot;All  right.&quot;  &quot;I  mean  this,  Ruth.  Can  you  pos-  sibly  keep  your  mouth  shut  about  it?&quot;  He  heard  the  hard  edge  of  his  voice,  and  saw  it  strike  her.  She  was  hurt,  but     he  meant  to  impress  her.  He  had  to  make  sure,  and  again  he  felt  brutal.  &quot;It's  important  he  doesn't  know.  Do  you  understand?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  understand  anything!&quot;  she  said,  and  her  eyes  became  glossy.  &quot;I  don't  either,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Jesus  Christ,  I  don't  either.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  when  I  made  the  house  right,&quot;  Ruth  said,  &quot;when  I  fixed  the  house,  we  could  all  be  happy  again.  Remember  when  Jimmy  was  a  baby?&quot;  She  put  her  hand  on  his  arm.  &quot;We  had  more  time  for  everything  then,  didn't  we?&quot;  &quot;We  had  less  money,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  right.  You  didn't  have  to  work  so  hard.&quot;  \xc2\xbb  &quot;It's  not  that,  Ruth.  I  don't  think  I  work  any  harder  than  Idid  then.  I've  just  got  less  time  left  over.&quot;  &quot;We  used  to  go  skating.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  we  did,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  re-  membered  the  gliding,  the  showing  off,  the  time  when  everything  he  did  had  been  a  kind  of  friendly  competition.  He  remembered  that  time,  sadly,  but  without  a  real  sense  of  loss.  That  night  when  Jimmy  came  in  from  his  cave,  he  coughed,  and  it  sounded  like  the  blat  of  a  sheep.  Harry  watched  him  try  to  keep  from  cough-  ing.  His  eyes  were  dark  and  desperate,  and  his  arms  shook  inside  his  jacket  sleeves.  Ruth  heard  the  cough,  and  came  running.  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  &quot;I  feel  fine.&quot;  &quot;Get  the  thermometer!&quot;  Ruth  cried.  &quot;It's  in  the  bathroom  cabinet  upstairs!&quot;  When  Harry  came  back  with  the  thermometer,  Ruth  had  Jimmy's  wet  clothes  off,  and  they  hustled  him  up-  stairs,  with  the  thermometer  sticking  " b"out  of  his  mouth,  and  wrapped  him,  scowling  and  muttering,  in  a  blanket.  His  temperature  was  104.  &quot;I  don't  care!&quot;  he  yelled.  &quot;I  feel  fine!&quot;  Promptly  he  went  into  a  kind  of  fit.  He  kicked  the  blanket  off  him  entirely  and  started  to  get  up.  Harry  had  to  hold  him  down,  and  it  was  like  holding  a  fluttering  bird.  Jimmy  was  so  weakly  violent,  and  the  way  he  moved  his  arms  and  legs  seemed  as  strange  as  the  movements  of  a  bird-as  though  the  joints  and  muscles  were  not  made  to  move  the  way  a  human  being's  did.  Harry  was  so  surprised  at  this  behavior  he  lost  his  breath,  and  couldn't  speak.  He  just  held  Jimmy  down  on  the  bed.  Ruth  called  the  doctor,  and  as  they  waited  for  him  they  tried  to  soothe  Jim-  my,  but  nothing  worked.  First  he  froze  and  then  he  burned,  and  when  he  stopped  fighting  them  it  was  only  be-  cause  of  exhaustion.  The  doctor  was  a  heavy  old  man,  who  wheezed  after  climbing  the  stairs.  He  examined  Jimmy,  who  glared  at  him  silently.  &quot;He's  going  to  be  in  bed  for  a  while,&quot;  the  doctor  said.  &quot;If  he  keeps  fighting  you,  you'll  have  to  take  his  temperature  rectally.&quot;  &quot;Butwhat  is  it  he's  got?&quot;  Ruth  asked.  The  doctor  shook  his  head.  &quot;Who  knows  what's  going  around?  Might  as  well  call  it  flu  as  anything.  Just  keep  an  eye  on  him,  and  if  he  don't  improve,  let  me  know.&quot;  He  said  he'd  call  in  a  prescription  to  the  pharmacy  and  Harry  could  pick  it  up.  &quot;I've  got  ten  other  cases  in  town  just  like  this.  It'll  last  three,  four  days,  and  then,  when  the  fever  goes,  he'll  be  weak  as  a  dishcloth  for  a  few  more  days.  Give  him  aspirin.  Make  him  take  liquids.  Keep  him  in  bed.&quot;  The  doctor  packed  his  satchel  and  left.  Jimmy  glared  and  shivered;  he  seemed  only  to  be  waiting  for  his  strength  to  come  back.  &quot;Jimmy,&quot;  Harry  said,  &quot;will  you  stay  in  bed?&quot;  Jimmy's  teeth  clicked,  and  Harry  saw  hatred  in  his  face.  Why  did  he  deserve  that?  &quot;Jimmy,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;we  want  to  help  you  get  well.&quot;  The  boy's  pale  face,  pale  as  paper,  turned  ugly.  For  a  moment,  Harry  didn't  recognize  him,  as  though  he  could  read  there  no  person  at  all,  just  pure  obstina-  cy  and  hatred.  Harry's  anger  rose  in  him  icily,  like  the  pulse  of  a  wave,  and  receded,  leaving  him  weak  and  empty.  &quot;But  will  you  stay  in  bed?  We  want  you  to.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Jimmy  said,  and  turned  his  face  away.  -  O  Jimmy  it  was  not  the  days  that  passed  but  the  undulations  of  his  fever.  His  stomach  ached,  his  bones  ached;  he  sweated,  and  then  lay  in  icy  water.  Only  when  he  began  to  get  well  did  his  real  desperation  return,  and  he  feared  for  the  secrecy  of  his  cave.  He  knew  what  would  happen  to  it  if  some-  one  found  it.  What  did  you  do  when  you  found  a  thing  made  of  snow?  You  destroyed  it,  because  it  was  only  snow.  He  could  see  himself  jumping  on  the  roof,  and  bringing  the  arched  ceiling  down  into  meaningless  rubble.  Even  now,  some  boy  might  be  having  that  in-  stinctive  fun.  One  night,  he  woke  in  the  dark,  feeling  that  he  had  crossed  that  in-  definable  point  where,  no  matter  what  happens,  the  body  has  won,  and  is  mending.  His  bones  no  longer  ached;   he  was  merely  weak.  He  heard  himself  whimper,  and  decided  that  he  couldn't  live,  actually  could  not  continue  to  live,  without  knowing  if  his  cave  had  been  discovered.  He  got  out  of  bed,  and  stood  balancing  himself  in  the  dark.  His  feet  had  become  so  sensitive  that  the  rug  stung  them  as  he  sneaked  down  the  dark  stairs.  In  the  hall  closet  he  found  his  outdoor  clothes  by  touch,  and  put  them  on  over  his  pajamas.  He  cried  silently  when  he  couldn't,  at  first,  find  his  other  boot,  and  cried  again  when  he  had  too  much  trouble  pulling  it  on,  but  he  made  no  sound.  He  had  no  fear  of  the  dark  of  the  middle  of  the  night,  and  this  seemed  a  kind  of  illness  itself,  and  proved  to  him  that  his  des-  peration  was  real.  On  the  way  out  through  the  garage,  he  stopped  and  took  the  flashlight  from  the  glove  com-  partment  of  the  car,  and  then  went  out  on  his  path.  The  cave  had  been  found.  The  door  was  uncovered  and  partly  broken,  as  though  someone  had  stood  up  too  soon  on  the  way  out.  The  bent  red  candles  were  all  strewn  around  in  the  packed  snow  in  front,  where  strange  feet  had  scuffled  and  stamped.  The  cardboard  box  had  been  taken  outside  and  squashed,  and  the  entrenching  tool  was  not  in  it.  M  He  looked  inside  the  doorway,  where  careless  shoulders  had  crunched  into  his  walls  and  ruined  them.  With  their  knowledge  of  his  cave,  they  had  killed  it;  he  would  never  go  inside  it  again.  He  heard  his  own  voice  crying,  and  the  sound  was  so  undeserved,  had  been  caused  by  such  brutal  unfairness,  that  he  began  to  rage,  and  threw  himself  against  the  door.  They  would  never  enter  it  again  either.  With  all  his  " b"strength  he  climbed  up  and  jumped  upon  the  cave,  breaking  it  into  chunks  and  slabs,  filling  up  the  floor.  He  could  still  hear  himself  crying.  HARRY  woke  up  in  a  sweat;  either  he  was  coming  down  with  Jim-  my's  flu  or  he'd  forgotten  to  turn  down  the  thermostat  before  coming  to  bed.  It  was  four  in  the  morning,  the  unprotected  time  when  all  disasters,  all  regrets  and  failures  are  poised  upon  the  exposed  surface  of  the  mind  like  water  spiders  on  surface  tension-on  nothing,  really,  but  a  kind  of  delicate  force.  Ruth  slept  on,  and  at  the  end  of  each  of  her  long  breaths  of  sleep  she  slightly  voiced  a  sigh,  as  though  she  were  having  a  sad  dream.  When  he  raised  the  blan-  kets,  cold  reached  out  of  the  heat  of  the  room  and  laid  an  icy  hand  on  his  chest.  He  decided  to  move;  any  sort  of  action  was  better  than  lying  here  in  the  power  of  his  thoughts.  He'd  check  the  thermostat  and  take  some  aspirin.  On  the  way,  he  stopped  to  look  in  on  Jimmy  and  found  him  missing.  He  wasn't  in  the  bathroom.  No  lights  seemed  to  be  on  downstairs;  careful  not  to  wake  Ruth,  he  went  down  to  see.  Jimmy's  outdoor  clothes  and  boots  were  gone,  and  Harry  quickly  got  into  his  own,  putting  his  overshoes  on  over  his  bare  feet.  The  car  door  was  open  and  the  flashlight  was  gone,  but  it  was  a  clear  night,  and  the  stars  themselves  seemed  to  give  him  light  as  he  followed  Jimmy's  path  toward  the  cave.  At  first  he  thought  Jimmy  was  in  a  fight.  He  heard  thrashing  and  crying,  and  the  flashlight  beam  swung  wildly  against  the  trees  and  across  the  snow.  He  came  on  the  run,  and  grabbed  Jimmy  up  in  his  arms.  Jimmy  struggled  violently,  and  again  Harry  thought  of  the  feeble  violence  of  a  bird.  &quot;Get  away!  Leave  me  alone!&quot;  Jim-  my  cried.  &quot;Jim,&quot;  Harry  said.  &quot;Jim  ...&quot;  &quot;It's  ruined!&quot;  Jimmy  cried.  He  struggled,  trying  to  bend  Harry's  fin-  gers  back  so  he  could  get  loose.  &quot;Get  out  of  here!  Leave  me  alone!&quot;  He  sobbed  and  hiccuped;  his  teeth  clicked  in  anger,  and  his  only  purpose  was  to  get  loose,  to  get  away.  &quot;Listen,  Jim!  Listen!&quot;  Harry  said,  and  shook  him,  but  Jimmy  only  strug-  gled  harder.  &quot;God  damn  you!&quot;  Jimmy  yelled,  and  Harry  let  him  go.  At  first  he  turned  toward  his  cave,  then  ran  back  along  his  worn  path  toward  the  house.  Harry  picked  up  the  flashlight,  shone  it  once  across  the  tumbled  wreckage  of  Jimmy's  marvel-  lous  cave,  and  then  followed  him  back  to  the  house.  Ruth  was  up,  and  they  put  Jimmy  back  to  bed.  He  was  tired,  sad,  and  lay  there  moving  his  head  slowly  from  side  to  side.  &quot;You  do  feel  bet-  ter,  don'tyou,  Jim-  my?&quot;  Ruth  said.  Jimmy  nodded,  yet  his  large  dark  eyes  were  blank,  and  his  mouth  was  set.  He  didn't  reply  when  they  turned  out  his  light  and  said  good  night.  When  they  were  back  in  bed,  Ruth  moved  toward  Harry  and  put  her  hand  on  his  chest.  &quot;Is  he  going  to  be  all  right?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Somebody  found  his  snow  house  and  ruined  it,&quot;  Harry  said,  &quot;but  I  suppose  that  was  inevitable.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  shame,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  was  it  like?&quot;  &quot;Very  elaborate.  He'd  done  a  remark-  able  job  for  a  boy.&quot;  &quot;Why  do  you  think  he  did  it-worked  so  hard  on  it?&quot;  Ruth  asked.  The  radiator  hissed  and  ticked;  he'd  forgotten  to  check  the  thermostat,  and  now  he'd  have  to  get  up  and  do  it.  He  lay  there  for  a  moment  with  her  hand  like  a  weight  on  his  chest.  There  had  been  a  time  in  his  childhood,  too,  be-  fore  his  friends  had  grown  old  and  tame,  when  the  great  lake  rose  in  the  winter,  terrible  and  magic,  into  walls  of  blue  ice,  and  the  snow  drifted  high  as  the  houses.  Lying  in  bed,  he  saw  him-  self  as  a  child  amid  the  wonder  of  those  snow-clad  houses,  and  he  felt  a  sudden  stab  of  envy  toward  that  child  who  lived  in  a  world  he  never  had  to  make.  Now,  he  thought,  he  understood  what  his  son  was  trying  to  do  out  there  in  the  snow.  &quot;He  was  trying  to  make  Duluth,&quot;  he  said.  "