 b"T HE  civil-rights  movement  had  I  a  salubrious  effect  on  Joan  Ma-  ple.  A  suburban  mother  of  four,  she  would  return  late  at  night  from  a  non-violence  class  in  Roxbury  with  rosy  cheeks  and  shining  eyes.  Her  voice,  as  she  phoned  evasive  local  realtors  in  the  campaign  for  fair  housing,  grew  curi-  ously  firm  and  rather  obstinately  melo-  dious-a  note  her  husband  had  never  heard  her  produce  before.  It  seemed  to  Richard  that  her  posture  was  im-  proving,  her  figure  filling  out,  her  skin  growing  lustrous,  her  very  hair  gaining  body  and  sheen.  Though  he  had  re-  signed  himself,  through  twelve  years  of  marriage,  to  a  rhythm  of  apathy  and  renewal,  this  raw  burst  of  beauty  took  him  unawares.  He  would  never  forget  the  night  she  returned  from  [REDACTED].  It  was  three  o'clock  in  the  morning.  He  woke  and  heard  the  front  door  close  behind  her.  He  had  been  dreaming  of  a  parallelo-  gram  in  the  sky  that  was  also  somehow  a  meteor,  and  the  darkened  house  seemed  quadrisected  by  the  four  sleep-  ing  children  he  had,  with  more  than  paternal  tenderness,  put  to  bed.  He  had  caught  himself  speaking  to  them  of  Mommy  as  of  a  distant  departed  spirit,  gone  to  live,  invisible,  in  the  newspapers  and  the  television  set.  The  little  girl,  Bean,  had  burst  into  tears.  Now  the ghost  closed  the  door  and  walked  up  the  stairs,  and  came  into  his  bedroom,  and  fell  on  the  bed.  He  switched  on  the  light  and  saw  her  sunburned  face,  her  blistered  feet.  Her  ballet  slippers  were  caked  with  orange  mud.  She  had  lived  for  three  days  on  Coke  and  dried  apricots;  she  had  not  gone  to  the  bathroom  for  sixteen  hours.  The  Montgomery  airport  had  been  a  madhouse-nuns,  social  workers,  di-  vinity  students  fighting  for  space  on  the  northbound  planes.  They  had  been  in  the  air  when  they  heard  about  Mrs.  Liuzzo.  He  accused  her:  &quot;It  could  havebeen  you.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;I  was  always  in  a  group.&quot;  But  she  added  guiltily,  &quot;How  were  the  children?&quot;  &quot;Fine.  Bean  cried  because  she  thought  you  were  inside  the  television  set.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  see  me?&quot;  &quot;Your  parents  called  long  distance  to  say  they  thought  they  did.  I  didn't.  All  I  sawwas  Abernathy  and  King  and  their  henchmen  saying,  'Thass  right.  Say  it,  man.  Thass  sayin'  it.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Aren't  you  mean?  It  was  very  moving,  except  that  we  were  all  so  tired.  These  teen-age  Negro  girls  kept  fainting;  a  psychiatrist  explained  to  me  that  they  were  having  psychotic  breaks.&quot;  &quot;What  psychiatrist?&quot;  &quot;Actually,  there  were  three  of  them,  and  they  were  studying  to  be  psychia-  trists  in  [REDACTED].  They  kind  of  took  me  in  tow.&quot;  &quot;I  bet  they  did.  Please  come  to  bed.  I'm  very  tired  from  being  a  mother.&quot;  She  visited  the  four  corners  of  the  upstairs  to  inspect  each  sleeping  child  and,  returning,  undressed  in  the  dark.  She  removed  underwear  she  had  worn  for  seventy  hours  and  stood  there  shin-  ing.  To  the  sleepy  man  in  the  bed  it  seemed  a  visitation,  quite  wonderful  and  quite  beyond  his  control.  She  spoke  on  theradio;  she  ad-  dressed  local  groups.  In  garages  and  supermarkets  he  heard  himself  being  pointed  out  as  her  husband.  She  helped  organize  meetings  at  which  dapper  young  Negroes  ridiculed  and  abused  the  applauding  suburban  audience.  Richard  marvelled  at  Joan's  public  composure.  Her  shyness  stayed  with  her,  but  it  had  become  a  kind  of  weap-  on,  as  if  the  doctrine  of  non-violence  had  given  it  point.  He  grew  jealous  and  irritable.  He  found  himself  insisting,  at  parties,  on  the  Constitutional  case  for  states'  rights,  on  the  misfortunes  of  African  independence,  on  the  tangled  historyof  the  Reconstruction.  Yet  she  " b" had  little  trouble  persuading  him  to  march  with  her  in  [REDACTED].  He  promised,  though  he  could  not  quite  grasp  the  object  of  the  march.  Indeed,  his  brain,  as  if  surgically  deprived,  quite  lacked  the  faculty  ofbe-  lieving  in  people  considered  generically.  All  movements,  of  masses  or  of  ideas  supposedly  embodied  in  masses,  he  secretly  felt  to  be  phantasmal.  W  here-  as  his  wife,  a  minister's  daugh-  ter,  lived  by  abstractions;  her  blood  returned  to  her  heart  enriched  and  vivified  by  the  passage  through  some  capil-  larious  figment.  He  was  struck,  and  subtly  wounded,  by  the  ardor  with  which  she  reward-  ed  his  promise;  under  his  hands  her  body  felt  baroque  and  her  skin  smooth  as  night.  HE  march  was  in  April.  Richard  awoke  that  morning  with  a  fever.  He  had  taken  something  foreign  into  himself  and  his  body  was  mak-  ing  resistance.  Joan  offered  to  go  alone;  as  if  something  fun-  damental  to  his  dignity,  to  their  marriage,  were  at  stake,  he  refused  the  offer.  The  day,  dawning  cloudy,  had  been  forecast  as  sunny,  and  he  wore  a  summer  suit  that  enclosed  his  hot  skin  in  a  slipping,  weightless  unreality.  At  a  highway  drugstore  they  bought  some  pills  de-  signed  to  detonate  inside  him  through  a  twelve-hour  period.  They  parked  near  her  aunt's  house  in  Louisburg  Square  and  took  a  taxi  toward  the  headwaters  of  the  march,  a  playground  in  Rox-  bury.  The  cab  was  turned  aside  by  a  sullen  policeman;  the  Maples  gotout  and  walked  down  a  broad  boulevard  lined  with  barbershops,  shoe-repair  nooks,  pizzerias,  and  friendliness  asso-  ciations.  On  stoops  and  stairways  male  Negroes  loitered,  blinking  and  mutter-  ing  toward  one  another  as  if  a  vast,  de-  crepit  conspiracy  had  assigned  them  their  positions  and  then  collapsed.  &quot;Lovely  architecture,&quot;  Joan  said,  pointing  toward  a  curving  side  street,  a  neo-Georgian  are  suspended  in  the  large  urban  sadness.  Though  she  pretended  to  know  where  she  was,  Richard  doubted  that  they  were  going  the  right  way.  But  then  he  saw  ahead  of  them,  scattered  like  the  anomalous  objects  with  which  Dali  punctuates  his  perspectives,  reced-  ing  black  groups  of  white  clergymen.  In  the  distance,  red  lights  of  police  cars  wheeled  within  a  twinkling  mob.  As  they  drew  nearer,  colored  girls  adorned  with  bouffant  hairdos  and  bangle  earrings  multiplied  beside  them.  The  most  queenly  wore  cerise  stretch  pants  and  the  golden  sandals  of  a  heav-  enly  cupbearer,  and  held  pressed  against  her  ear  a  transistor  radio  tuned  to  WMEX.  On  this  thin  stream  of  music  they  all  together  poured  into  a  play-  ground  surroundedby  a  link  fence.  A  loose  crowd  of  thousands  swarmed  on  the  crushed  grass,  Bobbing  placards  advertised  churches,  brotherhoods,  schools,  towns.  Popsicle  venders  lent  an  unexpected  touch  of  carnival.  Suddenly  at  home,  Richard  bought  a  bag  of  peanuts  and  looked  around-as  if  this  were  the  playground  of  his  childhood-  for  friends.  But  it  was  Joan  who  found  some.  &quot;My  God,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;There's  my  old  analyst.&quot;  At  the  fringe  of  some  Unitarians  stood  a  plump,  doughy  man  with  the  troubled  squint  of  a  baker  who  has  looked  into  too  many  ovens.  Joan  turned  to  go  the  other  way.  &quot;Don't  suppress,&quot;  Richard  told  her.  &quot;Let's  go  and  be  friendly  and  normal.&quot;  &quot;It's  too  embarrassing.&quot;  &quot;But  it's  been  years  since  you  went.  You're  cured.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  understand.  You're  nev-  er  cured.  You  just  stop  going.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  come  this  way.  I  think  I  see  my  Harvard  section  man  in  Plato  to  Dante.&quot;  But,  even  while  arguing  against  it,  she  had  been  drifting  them  toward  her  psychiatrist,  and  now  they  were  caught  in  the  pull  of  his  gaze.  He  scowled  and  came  toward  them,  flat-footedly.  Rich-  ard  had  never  met  him  and,  shaking  hands,  felt  himself  as  a  putrid  heap  of  anecdotes,  of  detailed  lusts  and  abuses.  &quot;I  think  I  need  a  doctor,&quot;  he  madly  blurted.  The  other  man  produced,  like  a  stiletto  from  his  sleeve,  a  nimble  smile.  &quot;How  so?&quot;  Each  word  seemed  pre-  cious.  &quot;I  have  a  fever.&quot;  &quot;Ah.&quot;  The  psychiatrist  turned  sym-  pathetically  to  Joan,  and  his  face  issued  a  clear  commiseration:  So  Ae  is  still  punishing  you.  Joan  said  loyally,  &quot;He  really  does.  I  saw  the  thermometer.&quot;  &quot;Would  you  like  a  peanut?&quot;  Rich-  ard  asked.  The  offer  felt  so  symbolic,  so  transparent,  that  he  was  shocked  when  the  other  man  took  one,  cracked  it  harshly,  and  substantially  chewed.  Joan  asked,  &quot;Are  you  with  any-  " b"body?  I  feel  a  need  for  group  security.&quot;  &quot;Come  meet  my  sister.&quot;  The  com-  mand  sounded  strange  to  Richard;  &quot;sister&quot;&quot;  seemed  a  piece  of  psychological  slang,  a  euphemism  for  &quot;mistress.&quot;  But  again  things  were  simpler  than  they  seemed.  His  sister  was  plainly  from  the  same  batter.  Ruddy  and  yeasty,  she  seemed  to  have  been  enlarged  by  the  exercise  of  good  will  and  wore  a  saucer-  sized  S.C.L.C.  button  in  the  lapel  of  a  coarse  green  suit.  Richard  coveted  the  suit;  it  looked  warm.  The  day  was  con-  tinuing  overcast  and  chilly.  Something  odd,  perhaps  the  successive  explosions  of  the  antihistamine  pill,  was  happening  in-  side  him,  making  him  feel  elegantly  elongated;  the  illusion  crossed  his  mind  that  he  was  destined  to  seduce  this  woman.  She  beamed  and  said,  &quot;My  daughter  Trudy  and  her  best  friend,  Carol.&quot;  They  were  girls  of  sixteen  or  so,  one  size  smaller  in  their  bones  than  women.  Trudy  had  the  family  pastry  texture  and  a  darting  frown.  Carol  was  home-  ly,  fragile,  and  touching;  her  upper  teeth  were  a  gray  blur  of  braces  and  her  arms  were  protectively  folded  across  her  skimpy  bosom.  Over  a  white  blouse  she  wore  only  a  thin  blue  sweater,  un-  buttoned.  Richard  told  her,  &quot;You're  freezing.&quot;  &quot;I'm  freezing,&quot;  she  said,  and  a  small  love  was  established  between  them  on  the  basis  of  this  demure  repetition.  She  added,  &quot;I  came  along  because  I'm  writing  a  term  paper.&quot;  Trudy  said,  &quot;She's  doing  a  history  of  the  labor  unions,&quot;  and  laughed.  The  girl  shivered.  &quot;I  thought  they  might  be  the  same.  Didn't  the  unions  use  to  march?&quot;  Her  voice,  moistened  by  the  obtrusion  of  her  braces,  had  a  sprayey  faintness  in  the  raw  gray  air.  The  psychiatrist's  sister  said,  &quot;The  way  they  make  these  poor  children  study  nowadays!  The  books  they  have  them  read!  Their  English  teacher  as-  signed  them  &quot;'Tropic  of  Cancer!  I  picked  it  up  and  read  one  page,  and  Trudy  reassured  me,  'It'sall  right,  Mother,  the  teacher  says  he's  a  Tran-  scendentalist!'  &quot;  It  felt  to  Richard  less  likely  that  he  would  seduce  her.  His  sense  of  real-  ity  was  expanding  in  the  nest  of  warmth  these  people  provided.  He  offered  to  buy  them  all  popsicles.  His  consciousness  ventured  outward  and  experienced  the  joy  of  so  many  Negro  presences,  the  luxury  of  immersion  in  a  race  so  buoy-  antly  courteous  and  free  of  rancor.  He  drifted  happily  through  the  crosshatch  of  their  oblique  sardonic  hooting  and  blurred  voices,  searching  for  the  popsicle  vender.  The  girls  and  Trudy's  mother  had  said  they  would  take  one;  the  psy-  chiatrist  and  Joan  had  refused.  The  crowdwas  formed  of  jiggling  frag-  ments.  Richard  waved  at  the  rector  of  a  church  whose  nursery  school  his  chil-  dren  had  attended;  winked  at  a  folk  singer  he  had  seen  on  television  and  who  looked  lost  and  wan  in  depth  ;  assumed  a  stony  face  in  passing  a  long-haired  youth  guarded  by  police  and  draped  in  a  sign-  board  proclaiming  &quot;MARTIN  LUTHER  KING  A  TOOL  OF  THE  COMMUNISTS  ;&quot;  and  tapped  a  tall  sandy-haired  man  on  the  shoulder.  &quot;Remember  me?  Dick  Maple,  Plato  to  Dante,  B-plus.&quot;  The  section  man  turned,  bespec-  tacled  and  pale.  It  was  shocking;  he  had  aged.  HE  march  was  slow  to  start.  Trucks  and  police  cars  appeared  and  disappeared  at  the  playground  gate.  Officious  young  seminarians  tried  to  organize  the  crowd  into  lines.  Unin-  telligible  announcements  crackled  with-  in  the  loudspeakers.  Martin  Luther  King  was  a  dim  religious  rumor  on the  playground  plain-now  here,  now  there,  now  dead,  now  alive.  The  sun  showed  as  a  kind  of  sore  spot  burning  through  the  clouds.  Carol  nibbled  her  popsicle  and  shivered.  He  and  Joan  argued  whether  to  march  under  the  [REDACTED]  banner  with  the  psychiatrist  or  with  the  Unitarians  because  her  father  was  one.  In  the  end  it  did  not  matter;  King  invisibly  established  him-  self  at  their  head,  a  distant  truck  loaded  with  singing  women  lurched  forward,  a  far  corner  of  the  crowd  began  to  croon,  &quot;Which  side  are  you  on,  boy?,&quot;  and  they  were  marching.  On  [REDACTED]  Avenue  they  were  shuffled  into  lines  ten  abreast.  The  Mapleswere  separated.  Joan  turned  up  between  her  psychiatrist  and  a  massive,  doleful  African  wearing  tribal  scars,  sneakers,  and  a  Harvard  Athletic  Asso-  ciation  sweatshirt.  Richard  found  him-  self  at  the  end  of  the  line  ahead,  with  Carol  beside  him.  The  man  behind  him,  a  forward-looking  liberal,  stepped  on  his  heel,  giving  the  knit  of  his  loafer  such  a  wrench  that  he  had  to  walk  the  three  miles  through556e6974656420537461746573  with  a  floppy  shoe  and  a  dragging  limp.  He  had  been  born  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  near  the  [REDACTED]  line,  and  did  not  understand  [REDACTED].  In  tenyears  he  had  grown  familiar  with  some  of  its  districts,  but  was  still  surprised  by  the  quick  curving  manner  in  which  these  districts  interlocked.  For  a  few  blocks  they  marched  between  cheering  tene-  ments  from  whose  topmost  windows  hung  banners  that  proclaimed  &quot;END  DE  FACTO  SEGREGATION&quot;  and  &quot;RETIRE  MRS.  HICKS.&quot;  Then  the  march  turned  left,  and  Richard  was  passing  Sym-  phony  Hall,  within  whose  rectangular  vault  he  had  often  dreamed  his  way  along  the  deep-grassed  meadows  of  Brahms  and  up  the  agate  cliffs  of  Strauss.  At  this  corner,  from  the  Styg-     " b"ian  subway  kiosk,  he  had  emerged  with  Joan,  Orpheus  and  Eurydice,  when  both  were  students;  in  this  res-  taurant,  a  decade  later,  he  and  she,  on  four  drinks  apiece,  had  decided  not  to  geta  divorce.  The  new  Prudential  Tower,  taller  and  somehow  dimmer  than  any  other  building,  haunted  each  twist  of  their  march,  before  their  faces  like  a  mirage,  at  their  backs  like  a  memory.  A  leggy  nervous  colored  girl  wearing  the  orange  fireman's  jacket  of  the  Security  Unit  shepherded  their  section  of  the  line,  clapping  her  hands,  shouting  freedom-song  lyrics  for  a  few  bars.  These  songs  struggled  through  the  miles  of  the  march,  over-  lapping  and  eclipsing  one  another  in  a  kind  of  embarrassment.  &quot;Which  side  are  you  on,  boy,  which  side  are  you  on  ...  like  a  tree-ee  planted  by  the  wah-ha-ter,  we  shall  not  be  moved  ...  this  little  light  of  mine,  gonna  shine  on  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  this  little  light  of  mine  .  .  .&quot;  The  day  continued  cool  and  without  shadows.  Newspapers  that  he  had  folded  inside  his  coat  for  warmth  slipped  and  slid.  Carol  beside  him  plucked  at  her  little  sweater,  gathering  it  at  her  breast  but  unable,  as  if  under  a  spell,  to  button  it.  Behind  him,  Joan,  serenely  framed  between  her  id  and  superego,  stepped  along  masterfully,  swinging  her  arms,  throwing  her  ballet  slippers  alternately  outward  in  a  con-  &lt;2  2  let  er  fident  splaying  stride.  shine,  let  'er  shine  .  .  .&quot;  Incredibly,  they  were  traversing  a  cloverleaf,  an  elevated  concrete  ara-  besque  devoid  of  cars.  Their  massed  footsteps  whispered;  the  city  yawned  beneath  them.  The  march  hadno  be-  ginning  and  no  end  that  he  could  see.  Within  him,  the  fever  had  become  a  small  glassy  scratching  on  the  walls  of  the  pit  hollowed  by  the  detonating  pills.  A  piece  of  newspaper  spilled  down  his  legs  and  blew  into  the  air.  Impalpably  medicated,  ideally  motivated,  he  felt,  strolling  along  the  curve  of  the  clover-  leaf,  gathered  within  an  infinitely  popu-  lated  ascent.  He  asked  Carol,  &quot;Where  are  we  going?&quot;  &quot;''The  newspapers  said  the  Com-  mon.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  feel  faint?&quot;  Her  gray  braces  shyly  modified  her  smile.  &quot;Hungry.&quot;  &quot;Have  a  peanut.&quot;  A  few  still  re-  mained  in  his  pocket.  &quot;'Thank  you.&quot;  She  took  one.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  be  paternal.&quot;  &quot;I  want  to  be.&quot;  He  felt  strangely  exalted  and  excited,  as  if  destined  to  give  birth.  He  wanted  to  share  this  sensation  with  Carol,  but  instead  he  asked  her,  &quot;In  your  study  of  the  labor  movement,  have  you  learned  much  about  the  Molly  Maguires?&quot;  &quot;No.  Were  they  goons  or  finks?&quot; &quot;I  think  they  were  either  coal  miners  or  gangsters.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  I  haven't  studied  about  any-  thing  earlier  than  Gompers.&quot;  &quot;I  think  you're  wise.&quot;  Suppressing  the  urge  to  tell  her  he  loved  her,  he  turned  to  look  at  Joan.  She  was  beauti-  ful,  like  a  poster,  with  far-seeing  blue  eyes  and  red  lips  parted  in  song.  Now  they  walked  beneath  office  buildings  where  like  mounted  butter-  flies  secretaries  and  dental  technicians  were  pressed  against  the  glass.  In  Copley  Square,  stony  shoppers  waited  forever  to  cross  the  street.  Along  Boylston,  there  was  Irish  muttering;  he  shielded  Carol  with  his  body.  The  desultory  singing  grew  defiant.  The  Public  Garden  was  beginning  to  bloom.  Worthy  statues-Channing,  Kosciusko,  Cass,  Phillips-were  trundled  by  be-  neath  the  blurring  trees;  Richard's  dry  heart  cracked  like  a  book  being  opened.  The  march  turned  left  down  Charles  and  began  to  press  against  itself,  to  link  arms,  to  fumble  for  love.  He  lost  sight  of  Joan  in  the  crush.  Then  they  were  walking  on  grass,  on  the  Common,  and  the  first  drops  of  rain,  sharp  as  needles,  touched  their  faces.  &amp;&amp;  ID  we  have  to  stavy  to  hear  every  damn  speech?&quot;  Richard  asked.  They  were  at  last  heading  home;  he  felt  too  sick  to  drive  and  huddled,  in  his  soaked  slippery  suit,  toward  the  heater.  The  windshield  wiper  seemed  to  be  squeaking  free-dom,  free-dom.  &quot;I  wanted  to  hear  King.&quot;  &quot;You  heard  him  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;I  was  too  tired  to  listen.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  listen  this  time?  Didn't  it  seem  corny  and  forced?&quot;  &quot;Somewhat.  But  does  it  matter?&quot;  Her  white  profile  was  serene;  she  passeda  trailer  truck  on  the  right,  and  her  window  was  spattered  as  if  with  applause.  &quot;And  that  Abernathy.  God,  if  he's  John  the  Baptist,  I'm  Herod  the  Great.  'Onteel  de  Frenchman  go  back  t'  [REDACTED],  onteel  de  Ahrishman  go  back  t'Ahrland,  onteel  de  Mexican  he  go  back  tuh-'  &quot;  &quot;Stop  it.&quot;  &quot;Don't  get  me  wrong.  I  didn't  mind  them  sounding  like  demagogues;  what  I  minded  was  that  god-awful  bor-  ing  phony  imitation  of  a  revival  meet-  ing.  'Thass  right,  yossuh.  &quot;  &quot;Your  throat  sounds  sore.  Shouldn't  you  stop  using  it?&quot;  &quot;How  could  you  crucify  me  that  way?  How  could  you  make  this  miser-  able  sick  husband  stand  in  the  icy  rain  " b"&quot;  for  hours  listening  to  boring  stupid  speeches  that  you'd  heard  before  any-  way?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  think  .the  speeches  were  that  great.  But  I  think  it  was  impor-  tant  that  they  were  given  and  that  people  listened.  You  were  there  as  a  witness,  Richard.&quot;  &quot;Ah  witnessed.  Ah  believes.  Yos-  suh.&quot;  &quot;You're  a  very  sick  man.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  know  I  am.  That's  why  I  wanted  to  leave.  Even  your  pasty  psychiatrist  left.  He  looked  like  a  dunked  doughnut.&quot;  &quot;He  left  because  of  the  girls.&quot;  &quot;I  loved  Carol.  She  respected  me,  despite  the  color  of  my  skin.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  have  to  go.&quot;  &quot;'Yes  I  did.  You  somehow  turned  it  into  a  point  of  honor.  It  was  a  sexual  vindication.&quot;  &quot;How  you  go  on.&quot;  &quot;  'Onteel  de  East  German  goes  on  back  t'East  [REDACTED],  onteel  de  Lux-  LJ  embourgian  hies  hisself  back  to  Lux-  embourg-'  &quot;  &quot;Please  stop  it.&quot;  But  he  found  he  could  not  stop,  and  even  after  they  reached  home  and  she  put  him  to  bed,  the  children  watching  in  alarm,  his  voice  continued  its  slurred  plaint.  &quot;Ah'ze  all  riaight,  Missy,  jes'  a  tech  0'  double  pneumonia,  don't  you  fret  none,  we'll  get  the  cotton  in.&quot;  &quot;You're  embarrassing  the  children.&quot;  &quot;Shecks,  doan  min'  me,  chilluns.  Ef  Ah  could  jes'  res'  hyah  foh  a  spell  in  de  shade  o'  dis  watuhmelon  patch,  res'  dese  ol'  bones  ...  Lawzy,  dat  do  feel  good!&quot;  &quot;Daddy  has  a  tiny  cold,&quot;  Joan  ex-  plained.  &quot;Will  he  die?&quot;  Bean  asked,  and  burst  into  tears.  &quot;Now,  effen,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;bah  some  unfok-choonut  chayance,  mah  spirrut  should  pass  owen,  bureh  me  bah  de  levee,so  mebbe  Ah  kin  heeah  de  singin'  an'  de  banjos  an'  de  cotton  bolls  a-  bustin'  .  ..  an'  mebbe  even  de  white  folks  up  in  de  Big  House  kin  shed  a  homely  tear  ..  .&quot;  He  was  almost  cry-  ing;  a  weird  tenderness  had  come  over  him  in  bed,  as  if  he  had  indeed  given  birth,  birth  to  this  voice,  a  voice  crying  from  the  depths  of  oppression  for  at-  tention.  High  in  the  window,  the  late  afternoon  sky  blanched  as  the  storm  lifted.  In  the  warmth  of  the  bed,  he  crooned  to  himself,  and  once  started  up,  crying  out,  &quot;Missy!  Missy!  Doan  you  worreh  none,  ol'  Tom'll  see  anotheh  sun-up!&quot;  But  Joan  was  downstairs,  talking  firmly  on  the  telephone.  "