 b"THE  efforts  of  Barnett  Frummer  to  become  a  successful  radical  were  so  consistently  fruitless  that  his  mentor,  Roland  Magruder,  finally  said,  &quot;Barnett,  I'm  afraid  you  might  be  one  of  the  thousand  flowers  that's  not  going  to  bloom.&quot;  (Magruder,  who  had  been  protesting  Mao  Tse-tung's  tend-  encies  toward  revisionism,  was  never-  theless  fond  of  paraphrasing  him.)  Frummer  felt  like  a  flower  not  only  un-  bloomed  but  also  under  attack  by  se-  vere  blight.  He  had  spent  months  try-  ing  to  impress  Rosalie  Mondle,  whom  he  worshipped,  with  his  radicalism,  and  Rosalie  still  treated  him  so  much  like  part  of  the  scenery  that  he  sometimes  imagined  that  someday,  in  an  absent-  minded  moment,  she  might  paint  &quot;Get  Out  of  Vietnam&quot;  across  his  chest  and  shoulders.  His  sacrifices  on  her  behalf  had  been  awesome.  One  August  day  in  Moline,  [REDACTED],  in  aprotest  demon-  stration  against  discrimination  in  the  Moline  Housing  Authority  and  Portu-  guese  colonialism  in  Angola,  he  had  gone  limp  for  so  long  on  the  main  street  that  he  fell  asleep;  two  hours  after  the  other  demonstrators  had  left  to  chain  themselves  to  the  door  of  the  Moline  City  Hall,  he  was  awakened  by  the  spray  of  a  street-cleaning  machine.  His  weak  arches  had  been  so  tortured  by  hundreds  of  miles  of  protest  marching  that  he  had  been  forced  to  wear  his  old  Army  boots  everywhere,  until  Magruder  reminded  him  that  they  were  a  symbol  of  the  military-indus-  trial  complex;  at  that  point,  he  had  taken  to  wearing  high-top  orthopedic  shoes,  which  embarrassed  him  when  he  crossed  his  legs.  And  still  the  closest  he  ever  seemed  to  get  to  Rosalie  Mondle  was  in  that  brief  moment  when  they  passed  each  otherwhile  walking  back  and  forth  in  a  picket  line-&quot;like  two  ships  in  the  night,&quot;  Frummer  lamented  one  afternoon  to  Roland  Magruder.  &quot;'That  reminds  me,&quot;  said  Magruder.  &quot;'They  need  an  extra  pair  of  feet  to-  night  to  picket  the  Liberian  ships  load-  ing  grain  for  the  Royalists  in  Yemen.  Think  your  arches  are  up  to  it?&quot;  &quot;I  just  don't  know  anything  anymore,&quot;  said  Frummer,  eying  the  hated  orthopedics.  &quot;I  can't  seem  to  act.  Like  I  was  going  to  refuse  to  pay  my  taxes  as  long  as  the  tax  money  was  used  for  weapons.  Yesterday  it  turned  out  they  owe  me  thirty-one  dollars  and  twenty-  five  cents,  and  I  don't  know  what  to  do  about  it.  If  I  accept  the  refund,  I'm  dealing  with  them.  IfI  refuse  it,  they'll  use  it  for  weapons,  or  at  least  some  ammunition.&quot;  &quot;Maybe  you're  not  really  alienated,&quot;  Magruder  said.  &quot;I  don'tthink  that's  fair,  Roland,&quot;  said  Frummer.  &quot;I'm  as  alienated  as  the  next  guy.  It's  just  that  I  try  to  concen-  trate  on  the  total  bankruptcy  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  political  structure,  and  all  I  can  see  is  Rosalie.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  take  my  place  as  leader  of  the  Liberian  freighter  demon-  stration?&quot;  Magruder  said.  &quot;If  your  feet  get  tired  from  picketing,  you  can  talk  everybody  into  throwing  them-  selves  across  the  path  of  the  boat,  and  then  you  can  float.&quot;  Frummer  tried  to  refuse  the  offer,  but  Magruder  insisted,  explaining  that  he  himself  was  spending  the  entire  evening  picketing  two  Nationalist  Chi-  nese  newspapers  on  Mott  Street.  Al-  though  he  was  still  known  in  some  circles  as  the  brains  behind  the  famous  acerbic  pamphlet  &quot;They're  Selling  Hot  Buttered  Popcorn  in  the  4368696e61  Lobby,&quot;  Magruder  had  long  ago  lost  interest  in  Nationalist  4368696e61.  So  far,  however,  he  had  been  unable  to  find  anv  Com-  munist  Chinese  newspapers  to  picket.  T  was  a  cool,  misty  evening  on  the  Hoboken  docks.  Rosalie  was  the  last  person  Frummer  expected  to  see  there,  carrying  a  placard  for  the  Committee  to  Protest  556e6974656420537461746573n  Commercial  In-  volvement  in  Arab  Wars  (known  also  as  the  December  5th  Movement,  since  the  committee  had  been  ejected  without  due  process  from  its  offices  on  Decem-  ber  5th  for  non-payment  of  rent  and  telephone  bill).  It  was  not  that  Rosalie  disagreed  with  the  committee's  aims.  She  agreed  it  should  oppose  the  Royal-  ists  and  support  the  efforts  of  a  small  deviationist  faction  of  the  Rebels  led  by  Mohammed  (Hands  Off)  Ahmed,  a  fiery  leader  who  had  earned  his  nick-  name  by  an  alleged  proclivity  for  cut-  ting  the  hands  off  recalcitrant  prisoners.  However,  not  long  after  December  5th,  the  committee  president  had  put  his  views  in  a  telegram  of  protest  to  [REDACTED],  and  Rosalie  had  immedi-  ately  resigned,  charging,  in  a  celebrated  letter,  that  &quot;To  send  a  telegram  is  to  usethe  Establishment's  own  tools  of  communication  and  therefore  to  regis-  " b"ter  an  empty  protest;  you  might  as  well  campaign  for  the  Democrats.&quot;  But  there  she  was,  dressed  in  blue  jeans  and  a  paint-splattered  sweatshirt,  wear-  ing  a  simple  circle  pin  made  of  protest  buttons,  and  carrying  a  sign  that  said  &quot;Hands  Off  Hands  Off!&quot;  Frummer  was  struck  dumb  by  her  grace  and  beauty.  For  several  minutes,  he  could  do  no  more  than  wave  his  placard  weakly  as  he  and  Rosalie  and  half  a  dozen  other  pickets  formed  a  moving  oval  on  the  dock.  He  was  seri-  ously  considering  the  possibilities  of  approaching  Rosalie  directly  and  mur-  muring  his  &quot;ships  in  the  night&quot;  line-  could  he  get  in  all  those  words  in  one  pass?-when  it  occurred  to  him  that  militant  leadership,  not  romanticism,  was  the  most  likely  route  to  her  heart.  Summoning  all  of  his  courage,  he  sud-  denly  shouted,  &quot;What  about  lying  down  in  the  path  of  the  ship?&quot;  It  worked.  Rosalie  nodded  vigorous-  ly,  and  said,  &quot;The  Power  Structure  has  to  be  confronted  where  you  find  it.&quot;  Frummer  suddenly  began  to  worry  about  the  consequences  of  a  float-in.  The  ship  was  not  scheduled  to  leave  port  for  two  days,  so  lying  down  in  its  path  represented  a  long-term  commit-  ment.  He  could  not  swim.  But  the  picture  of  Rosalie  following  him  into  the  oily  water  pushed  these  thoughts  to  the  back  of  his  mind.  Her  leader!  There  was  an  enthusiastic  buzz  among  the  demonstrators  as  Rosalie  crossed  over  to  talk  to  Frummer.  &quot;A  float-in's  activist  as  hell,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Shock  those  wishy-washy  liberals,  I  say.  Separate  true  radicalism  from  lip-  service  protest!&quot;  &quot;Right  you  are,&quot;  said  Barnett,  be-  ginning  to  wonder  if  theuse  of  an  inner  tube  would  come  under  the  head-  ing  of  compromise.  A  few  of  the  dem-  onstrators  had  already  discarded  their  shoes  in  preparation  for  the  float-in.  Frummer  was  now  more  worried  about  unlacing  his  orthopedic  high-tops  in  front  of  the  group  than  he  was  about  not  being  able  to  stay  afloat.  But  he  was  resolved  to  lead  the  pickets  into  the  wa-  ter.  He  would  win  the  heart  of  Rosalie  Mondle  even  if  he  drowned  doing  it.  At  that  moment,  another  group  of  demonstrators  suddenlyappeared  on  the  dock-twenty  neatly  dressed  young  men  and  women  marching  in  a  neat  column  of  twos.  One  of  them  walked  up  to  Frummer  and  said,  &quot;You  must  be  Barnett  Frummer,  of  the  December  5th.  I'm  Howard  Melton,  of  the  Mid-Sixties  Reform  Democratic  Club.  This  is  Cush  Townsend,  of  the  Mid-Sixties  Modern  Republicans.  We've  decided  to  work  as  a  team  to  protest  this  grain  business.&quot;  &quot;Hi,  [REDACTED];  said  Cush  Townsend,  stepping  out  of  the  line  to  grab  Frum-  mer's  hand.  &gt;  &quot;I  think  it's  important  and  demo-  cratic  to  have  cooperation  among  mili-  tant  protest  groups,&quot;  said  Melton.  &quot;What  we're  hoping  to  do  is  to  have  both  political  parties  adopt  a  pro-Hands  Off  policy  in  their  1968  Presidential  platforms.  We  thought  for  a  start  we  might  lie  down  in  front  of  the  ship.&quot;  &quot;Right,  [REDACTED];  said  Townsend.  He  had  already  stripped  down  to  a  pair  of  madras  swimming  trunks.  &quot;Some  of  the  guys  brought  masks.  They  thought  they  might  get  in  a  little  scuba  at  the  same  time.&quot;  Frummer  couldnot  speak.  Rosalie,  however,  was  at  no  loss  for  words.  &quot;I'm  surprised  you  forgot  to  call  in  the  League  of  Women  Voters,&quot;  she  said  to  Frummer.  &quot;I  hear  they're  a  regular  bunch  of  bomb-throwers  over  there.&quot;  Dropping  her  &quot;Hands  Off  Hands  Off!&quot;  placard  at  Frummer's  feet,  she  stomped  off  the  dock.  \xe2\x80\x9cHOW  are  things  with  you  and  Rosalie?&quot;  Magruder  asked  the  following  afternoon.  &quot;I  didn't  seem  to  handle  the  dem-  onstration  very  well,&quot;  said  Frummer,  unwilling  to  burden  Magruder  with  the  disappointing  details  after  all  the  trouble  he  had  gone  to.  &quot;Have  you  heard  from  her?&quot;  &quot;At  noon,  a  messenger  brought  me  an  application  for  the  Ford  Motor  " b"Company  executive  training  program,&quot;  Frummer  replied  sadly.  &quot;I  think  it  was  from  her.&quot;  Actually,  the  applica-  tion,  which  might  have  been  meant  as  the  final  cut,  cheered  Frummer  a  bit,  since  he  had  not  previously  been  certain  that  Rosalie  knew  his  name.  &quot;Barnett,&quot;  Magruder  said,  &quot;I  think  your  trouble  is  that  you  don't  have  enough  group  militancy.&quot;  &quot;'There's  only  one  of  me,&quot;  Frummer  said.  &quot;There  is  no  room  for  smart-alecks  in  the  move-  ment,&quot;  said  Magruder.  &quot;Being  cool  is  no  longer  cool,  Barnett.  Not  being  cool  is  cool.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  I  was  upset,&quot;  said  Frummer.  &quot;How  do  you  think  I  can  get  some  group  militancy?&quot;  &quot;Lead  them  right  to  the  White  House  and  go  limp,  naturally,&quot;  said  Magruder.  &quot;Go  to  the  Power  Structure's  main  gate  and  lie  down  like  a  man.  Let  dozens  of  flowers  bloom  with  you.  Believe  me,  Rosalie  will  never  be  able  to   resist  it.&quot;  Frummer  had  doubts  about  lying  down  at  the  White  House,  but  he  found  it  hard  to  resist  anything  that  might  give  him  a  chance  to  impress  Rosalie.  Also,  Magruder  had  thought  of  a  perfect  occasion  for  going  limp.  The  President  had  invited  twenty  bankers,four  architects,  and  the  film  critic  of  the  [REDACTED]  Bulletin  to  a  Cele-  bration  of  the  North  Atlantic  Cultural  Renaissance.  What  better  time  to  dem-  onstrate  to  the  world  the  true  radical's  opposition  to  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  Establish-  ment?  Frummer  approached  the  adminis-  trative  problems  of  the  demonstration  with  a  new-found  ability  to  act.  He  scurried  around  to  make  arrangements  with  the  chartered-bus  company  and  the  placard-maker;  he  notified  the  press  and  the  Nazi  Party.  In  a  few  weeks,  the  demonstration  was  ready.  Fortu-  nately,  it  was  a  bright,  if  somewhat  chilly,  day,  and-even  more  wel-  come-Magruder  had  apparently  pre-  vailed  upon  Rosalie  to  join  the  demon-  stration.  She  was,  in  fact,  the  first  one  down  as  the  group  spread  itself  across  the  White  House  driveway  to  block  the  Cadillacs  carrying  those  in-  vited  to  the  celebration.  Frummer  was  ecstatic.  The  cars  had  been  held  up  for  about  twenty  minutes  when  two  White  House  guards  approached  Frummer,  ascertained  that  he  was  the  leader  of  the  demonstration,  and  told  him  that  the  President  would  like  to  see  him.  The  demonstrators  were  jubilant  as  Frummer  walked  away  with  the  guards.  &quot;Tell  him,  Barnett!&quot;  they  shouted.  &quot;Give  it  to  him,  Barney  baby!&quot;  Barnett  waved  and  pulled  his  blue  jeans  lower,  to  cover  his  ortho-  pedic  shoes.  Pressed  against  the  gate,  the  demonstrators  saw  a  tall  man  come  out  of  the  White  House  to  meet  Frummer.  He  shook  Barnett's  hand  and  walked  him  back  to  the  White  House  with  one  arm  draped  paternally  around  Frum-  mer's  shoulder.  'The  demonstrators  strained  to  hear  the  conversation,  but  all  they  heard  was  &quot;We  just  want  to  hep  you,  son,&quot;  and  then  the  two  figures  disappeared  into  the  White  House.  Thirty  minutes  later,  Frummer  emerged  and  walked  to  the  gate  to  address  his  followers.  &quot;I  think  we've  reached  a  good  agreement,&quot;  he  said,  speaking  with  unaccustomed  confi-  dence.  &quot;I  have  told  the  President  that I  will  remove  the  demonstrators  from  the  gate,  and  in  return  he  has  agreed  to  schedule  a  Festival  of  Radicalism  in  [REDACTED]  at  the  White  House  sometime  next  fall.  He  suggested  we  join  him  in  a  Crusade  Against  the  Establishment.&quot;  &quot;Sellout!&quot;  somebody  yelled.  &quot;Fink!&quot;  yelled  another  demonstra-  tor.  Frummer  was  stunned.  &quot;I  don't  think  you  realize  what  kind  of  help  a  man  that  important  can  giveus  in  fighting  the  Power  Structure!&quot;  he  shouted.  But  the  demonstrators  were  out-  raged.  They  would  have  refused  to  leave,  except  that  Frummer  had  al-  ready  ordered  the  buses,  and  there  was  no  other  way  to  get  back  to  New  York  free.  Some  ladies  from  the  White  House  served  hot  chocolate  and  chili  to  the  demonstrators  as  they  lined  up  to  file  onto  the  buses.  Rosalie  Mondle  seemed  the  angriest  of  all.  She  refused  to  board  the  bus,  and  she  would  have  had  to  spend  the  long  day  in  [REDACTED]  alone,  except  that  Roland  Magruder  happened  to  be  in  the  area  interviewing  some  Albanian  revisionists.  He  and  Rosalie  went  limp  together  in  a  small  anteroom  of  the  [REDACTED]  African  Embassy,  where  it  was  cozy  and  warm.  "