 b"AT  forty-six,  Delinquent  Chacha-  &quot;chacha&quot;  means  &quot;uncle&quot;  in  [REDACTED],  and  he  had  prefixed  &quot;delinquent&quot;  to  it  so  long  ago  that  this  had  been  his  full  name  as  long  asI  could  remember-was  the  greatest  failure  in  our  family's  history.  He  had  spent  his  life  chasing  tinsel  promises,  and  he  pre-  ferred  smoking  a  cigarette,  chewing  a  betel-nut  pan,  and  playing  a  hand  or  two  of  poker  to  settling  down  to  a  day's  work  in  the  ordinary  sense  of  the  word.  Characteristically  seeing  the  opportunity  of  a  lifetime  in  a  vague  offer  of  a  part  in  a  racy  496e646961n  film  to  be  shot  on  the  Riviera,  he  had  set  out  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED]  with  a  one-way  ticket.  Arriving  there,  he  discovered  that  another  496e646961n  had  been  given  the  part.  On  the  little  money  I  could  send  him  from  my  Ox-  ford  scholarship,  he  had  proceeded  to  [REDACTED]  and,  his  first  evening  in  the  city,  landed  himself  a  job-far  below  his  expectations,  it  is  true-as  porter  of  an  496e646961n  restaurant  off  Shaftesbury  Avenue  called  the  All-496e646961  Taj  Mahal  Curry,  Chutney,  and  Soup  Restaurant.  A  fortnight  later,  I  came  up  to  Lon-  don  to  spend  my  Christmas  holidays,  and,  following  his  postcard's  instruc-  tions,  took  a  tube  from  Paddington  Sta-  tion  to  Piccadilly  Circus  and  walked  two  blocks  to  the  Royal  Colonial  Club  of  the  British  [REDACTED],  which  De-  linquent  Chacha  had  found  to  be,  as  he  wrote,  &quot;a  club  after  my  own  heart.&quot;  The  club  was  funereal  and  dark,  and  the  walls  were  draped  with  oversize  canvases  of  departed  governors  and  viceroys,  and  all  manner  of  regi-  mental  ties  in  display  cases  lent  an  additional  touch  of  grandeur.  The  porter  behind  the  lobby  desk  stopped  me.  &quot;You  are  the  scholar  from  Oxford  looking  for  Mr.  Delinquent  Chacha?&quot;  he  said  uncannily.  &quot;You  are  certain  to  find  him,  sir,  in  the  Lord  Curzon  Hall,  which  is  at  the  end  of  the  passageway  at  the  top  of  the  staircase.&quot;  The  capacious  chairs  in  the  rooms  upstairs  were  occupied  almost  entirely  by  ex-colonials.  The  Lord  Curzon  Hall  turned  out  to  be  a  long,  narrow  room,  the  walls  of  whichwere  covered  with  horses,  of  all  sizes  and  colors,  in  ornate  gilded  frames.  Delinquent  Chacha  was  seated  on  an  ottoman  at  the  farthest  end  of  the  room,  opposite  a  nervous  African,     who  was  reading  a  copy  of  the  Times.  I  rushed  up  to  Delinquent  Chacha  with  outstretched  arms,  but  he  didn't  re-  spond.  I  stared  at  him.  Instead  of  his  496e646961n  clothes-a  long  gold  coat  and  a  muslin  turban  for  more  important  outings-he  had  on  a  chalk-striped  suit  with  a  waistcoat.  A  price  tag  reading  &quot;\xc2\xa38  10s.&quot;  hung  from  his  sleeve,  giv-  ing  him  the  appearance  of  a  human  mannequin.  Indeed,  he  looked  straight  through  me,  as  though  I  were  just  another  window-shopper.  &quot;Delinquent  Chacha!&quot;  I  cried  out,  tearing  off  the  tag.  &quot;Sh-h-h,&quot;  he  said,  and  indicated  an  easy  chair  nearby.  &quot;Is  anything  the  matter?&quot;  I  asked  in  a  whisper,  taking  the  seat.  He  put  a  finger  to  his  lips  and  shook  his  head.  For  some  time,  Delinquent  Chacha,  the  African,  and  I  sat  in  a  tomblike  silence.  Finally,  Delinquent  Chacha  shattered  it  by  addressing  the  African  in  a  clear,  booming  voice.  &quot;My  dear  sir,  a  very,  very  good  evening  to  you!&quot;  he  shouted.  The  African  started  from  his  seat.  &quot;My  dear,  dear  [REDACTED];  Delinquent  Chacha  went  on  in  his  friendliest  man-  ner.  &quot;Are  you,  perhaps,  a  long-stand-  ing  member  of  our  hal-  lowed  Royal  Colonial  Club  of  the  British  [REDACTED]?  I  have  the  greatest  desire  to  be-  long  to  it,  to  be  tucked  permanently  into  its  fold.  As  it  is,  I  am  hereonly  by  the  cour-  tesy  of  a  great  prince-  ly  figure  whose  name  I  used  with  aplomb  to  acquire  temporary  guest  privileges.  The  good  porter  downstairs  tells  me  I  need  two  sponsors,  one  an  older  member,  the  other  any  member  in  good  standing.  My  busi-  ness  often  brings  me  to  [REDACTED],  you  know,  and  it's  rather  nice,  sir,  to  have,  so  to  speak,  as  splendid  a  peg,  so  to  speak,  as  the  Royal  Colonial  Club  of  the  British  [REDACTED]  to  hang  my  hat  on.  I  only  hope,  my  dear  sir,  you  will  not  think  me  too  bold  for  addressing  you  in  this  man-to-man  manner,  but  we  are  sitting  in  the  same  club,  and  it's  only  appropriate  that  before  you  acquiesce  to  my  request  you  should  be  made  ac-  quainted  with  my  qualifications.  I  come  from  one  of  the  best  families  in  496e646961,  and  my  hobby  since  boyhood  has  been  rearing  cub  lions  and  tigers  and  baby" b"elephants&quot;-Delinquent  Chacha  had  never  set  eyes  on  a  jungle  animal  ex-  cept  in  the  zoo-&quot;and  the  half  year  I  spend  in  496e646961  I  pass  in  long  shikars.  They  rather  bore  me,you  know,  but  I  am  besieged  by  new  ambassadors  and  American  dignitaries,  and,  entre  mous,  I  don't  like  to-how  shall  I  say-dis-  appoint  them;  they  may  take  away  a  bad  impression  of  my  country.&quot;  The  Times  slipped  from  the  Afri-  can's  hands  to  the  floor,  and  he  stared  at  Delinquent  Chacha.  &quot;I  thank  you  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  thank  you  for  calling  me  'sir.'  I  my-  self  am  a  temporary  member  and  am  scouting  for  a  second  sponsor.&quot;  He  darted  out  of  the  room.  &quot;Ah,  Mohan,  Africans  have  a  long  way  to  go,&quot;  Delinquent  Chacha  said  with  a  sigh.  &quot;A  very  long  way.  Frank-  ly,  Kaka&quot;-he  often  called  me  &quot;Youngster&quot;-&quot;I'm  not  sure  they'll  ever  catch  up  with  us  496e646961ns.  You  see,  they  have  not  had  the  advantage  of  a  chivalrous  association  with  the  British.&quot;  He  got  up  from  the  ottoman,  and  came  over  and  sat  down  on  the  arm  of  my  chair.  He  patted  me  on  the  back.  &quot;You  played  your  silent  role  beautifully,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Well  done,  Kaka.  Do  you  like  my  new  suit?  I  picked  it  up  at  Knight-  ed  Tailors-by  the  Queen's  appoint-  ment,  you  know.  You've  seen  their  advertisements  in  the  [REDACTED]  stations.  I  feel  free  in  this  British  suit.  Our  long  coats  are  really  very  constrain-  ing  to  the  motion  of  the  legs.  And,  you  know,  these  Britishers  have  solved  the  problem  of  matching  the  top  and  the  bottom  miraculously.  They  use  the  same  cloth,  but  divide  it  in  two.  And,  Kaka,  you  know  about  our  pajama  cord.  It  leaves  marks  around  the  waist,  and  your  Delinquent  Chacha  has  found  breathing  God's  good  air  difficult  be-  cause  of  the  constriction  of  his  dia-  phragm.  I  tell  you,  the  man  who  in-  vented  the  trouser  belt  was  a  genius  on  a  scale  no  smaller  than  the  English  gen-  tleman  who  invented  the  wheel-I  for-  get  that  gentleman's  name  for  the  mo-  ment.  Ah,  yes,  your  father  has  worn  a  suit,  and  you've  worn  a  suit.  But&quot;  -he  sighed-&quot;your  poor  Delinquent  Cha-  cha  has  had  to  be  content  with  a  wind-  ing  sheet.  To  say  the  truth,  I  don't  ever  again  want  to  have  a  piece  of  496e646961n  cloth  on  my  back.  It  brings  bad  luck.&quot;  &quot;You  must  be  raking  in  a  lot  of  money  as  porter  at  the  restaurant,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;No,  Kaka,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  just  sold  all  my  496e646961n  clothes  to  a  foolish  antique  dealer  who  specializes  in  imperial  dress.  But  I  am  on  the  way  to  becoming  the  owner  of  the  All-496e646961  Taj  Mahal" b" C  u  r  r  y  ,  C  h  u  t  n  e  y  ,  a  n  d  S  o  u  p  R  e  s  t  a  u  r  a  n  t  |  V  V  C  W  O  W  x  m  o  s  t  .  o  n  e  d  a  y  .  &quot;  &quot;  W  h  a  t  ?  &quot;  t  #  w     mead}?  time  to  {}{  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Fate  is  turning.  c  M  Last  night,  the  owner  of  our  great  All-  leave  far  {}{he  arm  i  496e646961  Taj  Mahal  Curry,  Chutney,  **Yes,  Richard.&quot;  $  $  f\xc2\xbb  and  Soup  Restaurant,  Lala  Durga  Pal,  \xc2\xa37  if  %  -  e  Foe  !.  oul  fell  down  the  entire  length  of  thg  stair-  Are  you  sure  2.  My  Old  Rarity  scotch?&quot;  well  and  cracked  his  coccyx.  This  is  not  it's   a  part  of  the  anatomy  I  am  familiar  the  holiday  inal  n  E  all  our  discerning  friend  Mts,  -/  with,  but  the  chef  tells  me  it  is  in  the  &quot;o  :  f  shape  of  a  hook,  from  which  our  tail  &quot;Good  girl.  L  dn]  Yak  ont  _  hung  in  the  olden,  pastoral  days.  The  long  flight  ;  ra  J  effect  of  it  all  is  that  your  Delinquent  Most  Oftheq  &amp;  Chacha  is,  at  least  for  a  few  days,  the  proud  manager  of  a  restaurant  in  Lon-  don,  to  do  with  it  as  he  wishes.  The  business  is  already  showing  signs  of  7  f  |  P  &amp;  prosperity.&quot;  He  pulled  up  a  chair  next  l  you   to  me,  and,  putting  his  feet  up  on  an  J\xe2\x82\xac  f  time  |  Hin  [REDACTED],  a  end  table,  said  sadly,  &quot;Oh,  Kaka,  I  lor  beach  in  [REDACTED]?  You  could.  look  at  all  these  pictures  around  me  and  f  s  B  _&quot;  ~a  I  know  immediately  that  my  life  has  been  a  failure.  I  wish  I  knew  the  name  of  every  horse  here,  and  who  it  be-  longed  to.  Now,  that  African  gentle-  man  who  was  sitting  here,  he  probably  doesn't  care  to  know  such  things.  I  do,  and  now  that  we  are  sitting  under  the  umbrella  of  the  British  Raj  I  can  tell  you  that  my  life  somehow  got  onto  the  wrong  foot  when  I  was  sixteen  or  seventeen,  but  not  for  the  reasons  that  are  usually  given  among  our  relatives:  Delinquent  Chacha  never  studied;  he  was  always  a  practical  joker;  he  was  misled  by  bad  friends;  he  never  had  the  benefit  of  the  wisdom  of  his  father,  dying  as  he  did  before  Delinquent  Cha-  cha  matriculated;  he  learned  to  smoke  too  early.  No,  Kaka,  none  of  those  rea-  sons  are  wholly  true.&quot;  &quot;You've  enjoyed  your  life  more  than  anyone,&quot;  I  said.  On  the  rare  occasions  when  he  became  gloomy,  such  remarks  usually  cheered  him  up,  probably  because  their  truth  was  un-  deniable.  He  cut  me  short.  &quot;I'm  a  successful  gentleman  in  [REDACTED]  now.  I  don't  have  to  go  on  beating  around  the  bush  anymore,  do  If&quot;  His  voice  broke.  &quot;Oh,  Kaka,  in  these  two  weeks  in  [REDACTED],  what  has  your  Delinquent  Chacha  not  gone  through?&quot;  Here  his  dream  has  been  realized,  and-&quot;  He  stopped.  A  rather  beefy  man  with  a  long  English  face  and  tousled  hair  walked  into  the  room.  He  went  over  to  the  chair  that  had  held  the  African,  sat  down,  picked  up  the  copy  of  the  Times  from  the  floor,  and  after  many  matches  and  puffs  lit  his  pipe.  W  4  Delinquent  Chacha  watched  him " b"room  and  intently  began  examining  the  canvas  of  a  horse  overhead.  &quot;Oh,  Dob-  bin,&quot;  he  said  wistfully,  &quot;if  you  were  running  today  at  Ascot,  I  would  weigh  you  in  gold  as  the  believers  do  the  Aga  Khan  and  back  you  with  the  last  ounce  of  it.&quot;  The  Englishman  puffed  at  his  pipe.  He  seemed  to  be  completely  ab-  sorbed  in  the  Times,  and  only  looked  up  to  put  another  match  to  his  pipe.  Undaunted,  Delinquent  Chacha  said,  &quot;Kaka,  as  an  Ox-Ford  man,  and  knowing  the  ins  and  outs  of  Newmar-  ket,  you  ought  to  be  ableto  appreciate  these  forelegs.&quot;  Delinquent  Chacha  returned  to  his  chair,  and  said  to  me  in  a  whisper,  &quot;Apparently  he  doesn't  understand  gentlemanly  overtures.&quot;  Then,  while  the  Englishman  sat  with  his  face  buried  in  the  Times,  Delin-  quent  Chacha  continued  to  address  me  inhis  best  public  voice.  Usually,  in  talking  to  me,  he  used  a  medley  of  Urdu  and  English,  but  now  he  spoke  English  exclusively,  even  when  he  had  to  pause  in  the  middle  of  a  sentence  to  search  for  appropriate  English  words  for  a  ready  Urdu  phrase.  &quot;As  I  was  saying,  Kaka,  in  496e646961  you  will  find  as  many  reasons  for  my  not  having  my  feet  on  the  ground  at  forty-six  as  we  have  relatives,  but  you  and  I  know  bet-  ter,  don't  we?  Any  objective  man  who  knows  the  Queen  and  me  will  tell  you  I  would  have  appeared  on  the  Queen's  birthday  list  by  this  time  as  the  Com-  panion  of  St.  Michael  and  St.  George  but  for  one  circumstance-my  mar-  riage  to  your  auntie.  As  C.M.G.,  I  would  have  gone  out  into  the  world  with  the  blessings  of  a  patron  saint-  you  know,  George  is  renowned  in  East  and  West,  among  Christians  and  Mo-  hammedans,  as  the  dragon  slayer  on  horseback-and  with  a  helpful  pat  on  the  back  from  the  Archangel  Michael  himself,  the  vanquisher  of  theDevil.  I  would  then  never  have  had  to  give  a  thought  to  being  a  successful  man.&quot;  I  started  to  say  something,  but  he  waved  me  into  silence.  &quot;You  see,  Kaka,  when  I  was  seven-  teen  and  in  the  last  year  of  college,  all  the  women  of  the  house  began  looking  for  a  good  match  for  me.  Ordinarily,  my  parents  would  have  waited  till  I  was  twenty-five,  but  I  was  a  fiery  pony  and  they  wanted  to  harness  me  as  soon  as  they  could.&quot;  His  voice  dropped  to  a  whisper.  &quot;Do  you  think  that  [REDACTED]  sprout  of  an  Englishman  is  taking  all  this  in?&quot;  I  said  I  was  sure  not.  Clearing  his  throat,  Delinquent  Chacha  went  on  in  his  normal  voice,  &quot;The  women  rela-  tives  asked  me  about  what  to  look  for  in  a  wife.  I  laid  down  three  specifica-  tions.  I  said  that  she  must  have  a  fair" b"skin,  not  a  shade  darker  than  the  snow  capping  our  Himalayas-those  were  my  very  words;  for,  among  other  things,  under  no  circumstances  did  I  wish  to  be  landed  with  one  of  our  Dravidian  girls  from  [REDACTED]  496e646961,  you  know.  Kaka,  I  have  no  racial  prejudices  to  speak  of,  but  it  is  no  secret  that  Westerners  pre-  fer  the  fairer  complexion,  the  straight  nose,  and  the  clear-cut  features  of  us  Northerners  to  our  thick-lipped,  snub-  nosed,  kinky-haired  43616e616461ern  breth-  ren-not  to  mention  their  charred  coloring.  Isaid  the  second  quality  was  that  my  wife  must  play  the  violin,  or  at  least  sing.  Music  adds  a  subtle  touch  and  grace  to  a  woman,  like  the  perpetual  wearing  of  a  French  scent.  Also,  your  Delinquent  Chacha  wanted  an  enter-  tainer  on  call  at  parties  and  grand  public  affairs.&quot;  He  lowered  his  voice  and  asked  again  if  I  thought  the  Englishman  was  taking  it  all  in.  I  said  it  was  im-  possible  to  tell.  &quot;But  the  story  is  intrinsi-  cally  interesting,  isn't  it?&quot;&quot;  he  whispered.  I  said  it  was.  He  resumed  with  re-  doubled  energy,  &quot;Finally,  I  insisted  that  my  wife  must  speak  English  fluent-  ly  and  witha  good  accent.  Kaka,  I  knew  from  the  very  start  I  was  destined  for  the  company  of  Englishmen,  and  I  wanted  a  wife  who  would  feel  on  an  equal  footing  with  them.  About  dowry,  sewing  and  knitting,  and  supervising  the  servants  in  the  polishing  of  brass  and  silver  and  such,  Ididn't  give  a  hang.  You  see,  Kaka,  I  was  a  progressive  in  my  own  day,  just  as  I  am  in  the  avant-  garde  movement  today  when  I  ask  for  the  return  to  496e646961  of  the  beneficent  rule  of  the  British.  After  turning  our  province  of  Punjab  upside  down,  they  found  a  bride  who  met  all  my  specifica-  tions.  She  was  twelve,  five  years  young-  er  than  me.  A  separation  of  eight  or  ten  years  between  a  husband  and  wife  was  considered  desirable,  but  since  I  was  a  sort  of  child  prodigy  in  these  matters,  not  much  thought  was  given  to  the  small  difference  of  years  between  me  and  my  betrothed.  By  that  time,  two  of  my  brothers-your  dear  uncles,  Kaka-  had  come  into  the  496e646961n  Civil  Service,  and  everyone  knew  that  the  younger  brothers  of  I.C.S.  officers  were  looked  after.  Sight  unseen,  her  father  accepted  me  as  his  son-in-law-to-be.  Kaka,  you  can  tell  how  far  things  had  gone  by  the  fact  that  my  father-in-law-to-be  jour-  neyed  two  hundred  miles  from  Lahore  to  our  home  in  Multan  with  the  cus-  tomary  hundred  and  one  rupees  to  give  my  mother  personally  as  an  acceptance  of  the  bond.  I  was  completely  in  the  dark  about  his  arrival,  and  that  morning  a  practical  joker  from  the  colony  chal-  lenged  me  to  a  wrestling  match.  To" b"my  undying  shame,  I  accepted  it.  On  the  whole,  I  was  a  studious  boy,  and  as  far  as  I  was  concerned  wrestling  was  purely  forthe  hooligans.  But  I  changed  |_  into  a  loin  strap,  and  with  that  as  my  entire  dress  I  went  out  into  the  gully.  Within  a  second,  the  joker  put  the  |  illegal  double  nelson  on  me,  and  pinned  me  to  the  street.  For  twenty  minutes  I  struggled  to  free  myself,  but  he  had  powerful  arms  and  hands,  and  the  muscles  at  the  back  of  my  neck  were  as  yet  tender.  When  the  joker  finally  let  me  go,  I  found  a  pair  of  kindly  eyes  looking  at  me.  They  belonged  to  a  very  distinguished-looking  gentleman  who  was  wearing  a  gray  felt  hat  and  sport-  ing  a  long  ivory  cane  with  a  beautiful  knob  at  the  top.  'Is  young  Master  about?&quot;  he  asked.  'You  are  speaking  to  him,'  I  said,  getting  up  off  the  ground.  You  can't  be  a  reliable  servant  if  you  take  such  liberties  with  your  master's  name,'  the  gentleman  with  the  ivory  cane  said.  'You  see,  he  is  to  be  my  son-  in-law,  and  I  am  here  with  a  hundred  and  one  rupees  to  seal  the  engagement.&quot;  How  many  times  in  my  life  since  have  I  not  regretted  that  I  didn't  rush  inside,  change  into  a  dapper  suit  of  clothes,  and  appear  in  front  of  him  in  a  new,  irresist-  ible  avatar!  But  oh,  Kaka,  like  a  fool,  I  said,  'Father,  I  am  the  very  Delin-  quent  Chacha  you  are  looking  for.  And,  forgetting  my  sweaty  body,  I  threw  myself  into  my  father-in-law-to-  be's  arms.  He  shrank  back  and,  turn-  ing  on  his  heel,  went  away,  never  to  be  seen  again.  He  took  with  him  the  first  and  the  brightest  promise  of  my  life;  from  that  time,  for  me,  it  has  been  a  run  on  a  downhill  slope.  I  took  to  my  bed.  I  felt  somebody  very  close  to  me,  some-  body  I  had  loved  forever,  had  died,  leaving  me  bereft  for  the  rest  of  my  life.  That  spring,  I  naturally  failed  my  [REDACTED]  examination.  My  mother  became  deeply  disturbed  about  the  marital  prospects  of  a  failed  [REDACTED]  Some  of  the  more  aggressive  women  of  the  house  prevailed  upon  her  to  advertise  in  the  newspaper.  I  was  taken  to  the  best  photographer  in  Lahore  for  a  studio  portrait,  and  for  nearly  a  fortnight  I  looked  out  of  the  marriage  page  of  the  Tribune.  Oh,  Kaka,  the  picture  was  so  handsome  that  I  hardly  recognized  myself.  It  showed  me  with  a  rose  in  my  buttonhole.  But  the  caption  was  even  more  tempting.  It  read,  in  italics,  'Failed  [REDACTED]  from  British  College,  Lahore.  Good  University  man  with  two  brothers  in  I.C.S.'  To  most  fathers  of  daughters  it  was  a  dinner  plate  of  banana  ice  cream  on  ahot  day.  Shoals  of  them  began  arriving,  on  bicycles,  on  foot,  on  horseback,  in  tongas,  with  pro-" b"posals  of  their  daughter's  handand  big-  ger  and  bigger  dowries,  all  designed  to  put  a  halter  on  a  prize  horse.I  firmly  held  out  for  the  three  original  qualifica-  tions.  But  there  was  one  father  more  cunning  than  I.  He  was  a  suave  Dis-  trict  Magistrate,  one  of  the  first  Indi-  ans  to  hold  such  an  exalted  post  in  the  British  [REDACTED].  He  told  my  mother  in  no  uncertain  terms  that  his  daughter  met  my  three  specifications  entirely.  No  one  had  the  courage  to  ask  to  see  his  daughter;  it  would  have  been  casting  doubt  on  the  District  Magistrate's  word.  If  the  British  could  entrust  the  ruling  of  the  country  to  him,  who  were  we?  In  sentiment  we  were  correct,  but  he  was  a  born  defrauder-of  governments  and  Delinquent  Chachas.  Innocent  that  I  was,  I  bathed  in  the  luxurious  waters  of  a  newborn.  The  wedding  was  spec-  tacular-Delinquent  Chacha  seated  on  a  trim  stallion,  both  covered  with  shim-  mering  ornaments,  bells,  and  objets  d'art,  or  whatever  you  call  them,  and  a  fierce  sword  dangled  at  the  equestrian  hero's  side.  In  line  with  the  time-hon-  ored  tradition,  Delinquent  Chacha  chiv-  alrously  set  forth  to  the  sound  of  an  epithalamic  band  to  take  his  spouse  hero-  ically  from  the  clutches  of  her  parents.  Kaka,  imagine,  if  you  are  able  to,  poor  Delinquent  Chacha's  disappointment,  the  heartbreak,  when  on  the  nuptial  bed,  lifting  the  veil,  he  discovered  under-  neath  a  dark  and  brooding  face.  She  turned  out  to  be  a  shrew.  She  couldn't  speak  a  word  of  English,  and  her  sand-  paper  voice  could  not  shake  out  one  mu-  sical  note.  My  star  passed  into  eclipse,  and  without  the  sunny  marriage  Delin-  quent  Chacha  had  hoped  for  he  with-  |  ered  away  in  a  day,  like  the  flower  in  his  ||  buttonhole.  Divorce  there  could  be  no  |.  question  of;  it  hadn't  been  heard  of  in  496e646961  for  thousands  of  years,  and  De-  linquent  Chacha,  in  spite  of  all  his  progressivism,  could  not  break  such  iron  shackles  of  the  past.  He  found  what  comfort  there  was  in  bringing  forth  large  and  fair  progeny,  and  taking  de-  light  in  all  their  achievements.  And  in  this  respect,  I  may  say  your  father  and  at  least  one  of  your  dear  uncles  have  not  done  badly  by  my  children.  I  wish  I  could  say  that  about  every  one  of  your  good  uncles,  Kaka.&quot;  Delinquent  Cha-  cha  stood  up  and  walked  to  the  center  of  the  room.  &quot;Good  sir,  a  very,  very  good  evening  to  you,&quot;  he  said.  The  Englishman  put  down  his  paper,  and  held  another  match  to  his  pipe.  It  was  a  little  time  before  he  answered.  &quot;Good  evening,&quot;  he  said  genially,  and  looked  out  of  the  window.  &quot;This  is  my  nephew-Kaka,&quot;  De- " b"linquent  Chacha  said,  introducing  me.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  know  my  name?&quot;  &quot;If  you  like,&quot;  the  Englishman  said.  &quot;Delinquent  Chacha,&quot;  Delinquent  Chacha  said,  and  he  waited  for  a  reac-  tion.  The  Englishman  looked  at  his  watch.  &quot;I  think  I  can  just  make  the  showing  of  thatfarce  around  the  corner,&quot;  he  said,  standing  up.  He  folded  his  copy  of  the  Times  neatly  and  put  it  on  the  chair.  &quot;A  moment,&quot;  Delinquent  Chacha  said  agitatedly.  &quot;Before  you  go,  what  did  you  think  of  the  sad  story  of  my  life?&quot;  &quot;I'm  afraid  I  didn't  really  listen.  That  is  to  say,  I  couldn'thelp  hearing  bits  and  pieces,  but  I'm  sure  I  couldn't  repeat  a  sentence  of  it.  I  thought  you  were  having  a  private  conversation.  Should  I  have  listened?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  no,&quot;  Delinquent  Chacha  said.  &quot;As  you  say,  it  was  a  private  con-  versation.&quot;  There  was  a  little  awkward  silence.  &quot;Well,&quot;  the  Englishman  said  finally,  looking  at  his  watch,  &quot;I  must  be  off.  I'm  sure  we'll  meet  again,  perhaps  here  at  the  club.&quot;  &quot;Here  at  the  club,&quot;  Delinquent  Cha-  cha  said  quietly,  his  mouth  closing  tight-  ly-always  a  sign  of  displeasure  with  him.  No  sooner  was  the  Englishman  out  of  the  room  than  his  spirits  revived.  &quot;Shall  we  go  down  and  make  friends  with  the  porter?  It's  nice  to  keep  fel-  lows  like  that  on  your  side.&quot;  We  walked  downstairs,  and  in  the  lobby  Delinquent  Chacha  smoked  a  cig-  arette  with  the  porter.  As  we  were  leaving  the  club,  we  passed  a  large  open  ledger  on  a  stand,  with  a  notice:  &quot;All  visitors  are  requested  to  write  their  names  and  addresses  in  the  visitors'  book.&quot;  Taking  the  pen  from  the  pen-  holder,  Delinquent  Chacha  wrote  out  in  a  large  hand,  &quot;Delinquent-Chacha  of  the  All-496e646961  Taj  Mahal  Curry,  Chutney,  and  Soup  Restaurant,  the  cel-  ebrated  496e646961n  restaurant  off  Shaftes-  bury  Avenue,  [REDACTED],  United  King-  dom.&quot;  Then  he  made  an  extra-long  hyphen  and  appended  &quot;C.M.G.&quot;  to  &quot;Delinquent-Chacha.&quot;  &quot;I  should  have  pumped  our  good  English  friend  about  the  proper  size  of  a  hyphen,&quot;  he  said,  and  returned  the  pen  to  the  penholder.  &quot;'These  English  things  have  mysterious  nuances.&quot;"