 b"WHEN  Barnett  Frummer  ex-  amined  his  failure  to  capture  the  heart  of  Rosalie  Mondle--  an  examination  he  carried  on  approxi-  mately  six  hours  each  day-it  often  oc-  curred  to  him  that  the  only  place  he  could  count  on  seeing  Rosalie  was  at  one  of  Elliot  Nardling's  parties.  In  his  more  realistic  moments,  Frummer  re-  alized  that  he  could  not  even  count  on  that,  because  he  was  not  always  invited  to  Elliot  Nardling's  parties.  Elliot  had  what  was  widely  considered  an  admi-  rable  loyalty  to  Barnett,  an  old  college  friend,  but  Elliot's  wife,  Myrna  Nar-  dling,  was  one  of  the  best-known  host-  esses  in  [REDACTED],  and  it  was  often  said  that  she  never  had  more  than  two  people  at  a  party  to  whom  any  reason-  ably  well-informed  person  would  dare  address  the  question  &quot;What  do  you  do?&quot;  Elliot's  obligation  to  his  relatives,  who  were  undistinguished  but  rich,  meant  that  both  slots  were  often  occu-  pied.  No  one  would  need  to  ask  Rosalie  what  she  did.  She  always  seemed  to  be  in  the  colurmns-taking  part  in  a  discotheque  opening  or  a  civil-rights  demonstration,  or  being  escorted  someplace  by  some  performer  who  was  a  smash  hit  some-  where  (smashed  hit,  Barnett  always  muttered  to  himself  when  he  saw  one  of  those)-and  she  was  a  steady  visitor  at  the  Nardlings'.  Often  when  Frummer  read  in  the  columns  about  who  was  enjoying  Rosalie's  company  at  a  dinner  party  Elliot  and  Myrna  Nardling  had  given  the  night  before-a  night  he  had  likely  spent  calcu-  lating  how  he  might  nonchalantly  alight  from  a  Fifth  [REDACTED]  bus  in  front  of  Rosalie's  apart-  ment  house  at  exactly  the  time  she  was  emerg-  ing  to  walk  her  dog-he  began  to  feel  as  if  he  would  never  be  invited  anywhere,  not  even  to  every  fifteenth  or  twen-  tieth  party  at  the  Nar-  dlings'.  He  realized,  as  he  looked  over  the  col-  umns  one  day,  that  he  would  never  be  in  a  posi-  tion  not  to  be  asked  what  he  did,  and  he  was  certainly  not  in  a  good  position  when  he  was  asked  what  he  did.  Who  was  interested  in  a  family  awning  business?  'The  night  before,  Rosalie  had  been  mixing  with,  among  others,  Ren\xc3\xa9  Plenet,  the  fashion  pho-  tographer  and  blank-verse  poet;  the  Contessa  di  Puglia;  four  out  of  five  members  of  the  Cretins,  the  most  popu-  lar  British  singing  group  appearing  in  the  city;  and  Rolly  Rawlings,  the  most  vibrant  political  force  in  the  Nardlings'  set,  a  lady  whose  name  had  hardly  missed  a  day  in  the  papers  since  August,  1963,  when  she  offered  to  send  three  dozen  picnic  lunches  from  the  Brasserie  to  members  of  the  Moss  Point,  Missis-  sippi,  N.A.A.C.P.  Youth  Council  at-  tending  the  march  on  [REDACTED].  What  could  he  ever  do  to  compete  with  people  like  that?  &quot;Never  compete,&quot;  Frummer  was  told  one  afternoon  by  Roland  Magrud-  er,  his  friend  and  mentor,.  &quot;The  only  47  way  to  beat  these  party  people  is  to  refuse  to  go  to  parties.&quot;  Magruder  had  chosen  that  device  himself,  and  it  always  seemed  to  Frummer  that  his  friend  accomplished  as  much  by  refusing  to  attend  a  party  as  most  people  did  by  spending  an  entire  evening  at  one.  &quot;'They  wanted  me  to  come  to  one  of  those  phony,  boring  all-night  pot  smokers  at  Bergwort's,&quot;  he  would  say,  mentioning  the  most  sought-after  nov-  elist-play  wright  in  the  city.  &quot;I  told  them  there  was  asurfing  movie  I  wanted  to  see  that  evening  before  it  left  the  nabes  for  good.&quot;  Magruder  had  re-  fused  invitations  to  some  of  the  most  important  homes  in  the  city,  and  he  often  spent  his  afternoon  going  through  the  columns  and  sneering  at  the  people  he  had  refused  to  mingle  with  the  night  before.  He  was  more  than  occasionally  mentioned  in  the  columns  as  someone  who  was  not  present  at  some  otherwise  celebrity-laden  event.  Refusing  to  go  to  parties  was  hard-  ly  the  answer  for  Barnett  Frummer.  In  the  first  place,  he  pointed  out  to  " b"Roland,  a  person  had  to  be  invited  be-  fore  he  could  refuse.  And  if  this  hap-  pened  by  any  chance-that  is,  if  any  of  his  old  collegefriends  besides  Elliot  Nardling  became  a  host-he  could  hardly  give  up  a  possible  opportunity  to  see  Rosalie  just  to  make  a  gesture.  The  other  obvious  solution-becoming  a  host  himself-was  also  out  of  the  ques-  tion.  Even  if  he  possessed  the  other  qualifications,  he  would  be  disqualified  by  the  fact  that  financially  the  awning  trade  had  been  only  moderately  good  to  him.  Elliot  Nardling  was  fortunate  enough  to  have  a  father  who  was  a  well-known  hairnet  manufacturer  with  deep  show-business  connections,  and  the  old  man  was  perfectly  happy  to  have  his  son  devote  full  time  to  what  Elliot  called  &quot;the  profession  of  catalyzing  the  celebrated&quot;  as  long  as  he  promised  to  stay  away  from  the  profession  of  manu-  facturing  hairnets.  &quot;Which  is  why  I  suggest  that  you  become  an  adviser,&quot;  Magruder  told  Frummer.  &quot;You  mean  read  tea  leaves  and  that  sort  of  thing?&quot;  asked  Frummer.  'There  already  is  one  in  the  Nardlings'  set.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  that's  not  what  I  mean,&quot;  said  Magruder.  &quot;How  do  you  think  these  hostesses  know  which  people  to  ask?  Do  you  realize  the  administrative  problems  of  keeping  up  with  who  the  hot  people  are-just  in  newspaper  read-  ing  alone?  It's  a  job  for  a  specialist.  As  it  happens,  I  know  a  girl-Wendy  Olswang  by  name-who  is  very  inter-  ested  in  becoming  a  hostess.  She  has  a  duplex  apartment,  a  few  connections,  an  independent  alimony,  and  a  thick  skin.  I've  taken  the  liberty  of  suggest-  ing  you  as  an  adviser.&quot;  Frummer  gratefully  accepted  Ma-  gruder's  offer.  He  had  a  vacation  coming  up,  and  then  it  would  be  win-  ter,  always  a  slow  season  in  the  awn-  ing  business.  In  that  time,  he  might  be  ableto  lure  Rosalie  to  one  or  two  parties,  or  even-how  could  such  de-  velopments  be  predicted?-organize  an  entire  season  of  parties  that  Rosalie  would  find  positively  magnetic.  He  had,  of  course,  no  knowledge  of  party-giv-  ing  techniques,  except  the  Nardlings'  two-unknowns  formula,  but  he  was  aware  that  the  guiding  principle  of  choosing  people  to  invite  to  parties  was  similar  to  the  one  governing  the  pur-  chase  of  fruit  and  vegetables:  get  them  just  when  they're  ripe.  He  met  Wendy  Olswang  for  lunch  that  Monday,  and,  applying  the  guiding  principle  directly,  advised  his  client  to  give  a  dinner  party  the  following  Saturday  night  in  honor  of  the  young  novelist  whose  book  had  received  the  front-page  review  in  the  Times  Book  Review  the  day  before.  To  Frummer's  amazement,  the  process  of  organizing  the  party  seemed  relatively  simple.  With  a  daring  he    had  not  previously  noticed  in  himself,  he  phoned  the  novelist  and,  by  hinting  strongly  of  Wendy's  connections  with  producers  interested  in  buying  thin  novels  for  big  movies,  persuaded  him  to  be  the  guest  of  honor.  Then,  straining  Wendy's  contacts  to  the  limit,  he  put  together  a  nicely  balanced  guest  list  that  included  the  most  prominent  film  actor  in  the  peace  movement,  one  of  the  leading  Mafia  lawyers  in  New  York,  a  lower-East  Side  minister  with  upper-East  Side  connections,  a  brace  of  English  hairdressers,  the  heavyweight  wrestling  champion  of  the  world,  and  Rosalie  Mondle,  girl-about-town.  All  of  them  refused.  &quot;I  can't  understand  it,&quot;  said  Frum-  mer,  lamenting  to  Roland  Magruder  the  following  morning.  &quot;Hisbook  had  the  front-page  review  in  the  Times  book-review  section  on  Sunday.&quot;  &quot;When  was  that?&quot;  asked  Magruder  casually.  &quot;'This  last  Sunday,&quot;  said  Frummer,  puzzled  at  the  question.  &quot;Never  invite  from  the  Sunday  Times  book  section  on  Sunday,&quot;  said  Magruder.  &quot;Myrna  Nardling  sends  Elliot  to  a  special  newsstand  on  Lex-  ington  [REDACTED]  on  Wednesdays,  be-  cause  they  get  the  back  sections  of  the  Sunday  Times  three  days  early.  She  had  a  party  last  night  in  honor  of  the  philosopher  whose  book  had  the  front-page  review  in  the  Times  book-review  section  today.  You  were  entertaining  last  week's  author.&quot;  &quot;I  should  have  known,&quot;  said  Frummer.  &quot;He  seemed  all  used  up.)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Don't  feel  let  down,  Bar-  nett,&quot;  Magruder  said,  in  a  kind-  ly  tone.  &quot;The  Nardling  party  was  obviously  a  bore.  Myrna  wanted  me  to  come,  and  I  told  ber  I  thought  I'd  stay  home  and  watch  Jackie  Gleason  on  television.  I  get  a  kick  out  of  it  occasionally.&quot;  Frummer  felt  let  down  none-  theless.  He  had  planned  to  spend  the  early  evening  stroll-  ing  past  a  [REDACTED]  movie  theatre-there  was  a  premicre  scheduled,  and,  according  to  his  calculations,  Rosalie  might  show  upfrom  eightto  eleven  minutes  early,  depending  on  the  traffic-  but  he  was  too  depressed  to  leave  his  apartment.  To  his  sur-  prise,  Wendy  Olswang  phoned  to  say  that  she  was  willing  to  continue  her  effort  to  become  a  hostess.  Frummer  didn't  think  he  could  face  it,  although  visions  " b"of  greeting  Rosalie  as  the  ac-  knowledged  organizer  of  a  gay,  witty  dinner  party  still  flashed  through  his  head  as  Wendy  talked.  &quot;It's  been  so  long,&quot;  he  would  say  casually,  kissing  Rosalie  on  the  cheek  as  he  took  her  wrap.  &quot;The  Con-  tessa  has  talked  about  nothing  but  you  all  night.  What  can  I  get  you  to  drink?  Have  you  seen  good  old  Elliot  and  Myrna  lately?  What  is  Elliot  doing  now?&quot;  &quot;What  a  marvellous  party,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Aren't  the  Cretins  just  too  much,  pouring  their  drinks  on  the  Contessa  that  way?  Doesn't  Rolly  Rawlings  look  absolutely  mar-  vellous  in  her  S.N.C.C.  over-  alls?  Ren\xc3\xa9  Plenet  is  such  a  blank-verse  bore.  It's  been  so  long,  Barnett.  You've  been  off  doing  something  exciting,  I  suppose.  You're  so-&quot;  &quot;How  about  a  picnic?&quot;  Wendy  was  saying  on  the  phone.  &quot;I  wouldn't  advise  that,&quot;  said  Frummer,  emerging  slowly  from  his  fantasy.  &quot;I'm  so  glad  you're  my  adviser  again,&quot;&quot;  Wendy  said.  &quot;We  advisers  can't  work  miracles,  but  I'll  see  what  I  can  do,&quot;  said  Frum-  mer.  What  did  hehave  to  lose?  N  the  weeks  that  followed,  Frummer  worked  night  after  night  trying  to  advisea  party  that  Rosalie  Mondle  would  attend.  By  Christmas,  through  almost  superhuman  effort,  he  had  man-  aged  to  plan  six  parties  for  Wendy  Olswang.  They  drew  a  total  of  eleven  guests,  three  of  whom  had  not  been  invited  but  spotted  the  coat  rack  in  the  hall  from  the  elevator.  During  the  same  period,  Myrna  Nardling's  house  seemed  to  be  constantly  filled  with  celebrities  as  she  gave  parties  for  a  new  ambassador  whose  appointment  she  had  learned  of  through  a  highly  placed  person  whom  she  maintained  as  an  agent  in  the  State  Department  at  some  expense;  a  por-  nographer  whose  lawyer,  a  friend  of  Myrna's,  had  made  him  famous  by  having  him  sue  the  Legion  of  Decency  for  slander;  and  a  [REDACTED]  play-  wright  with  a  new  hit  comedy.  (Myrna  had  stayed  up  late  to  read  the  reviews  and  had  extended  her  invitation  during  a  supposedly  accidental  meeting  with  the  playwright  near  the  door  of  his  apartment  house  as  he  returned  from  the  opening-night  party  at  six  the  fol-  lowing  morning.  Barnett  Frummer  gazed  at  the  pic-  ture  of  Rosalie  Mondle  he  kept  on  his  dresser-it  was  a  newspaper  photo  of  Rosalie  leaving  a  night  club  with  a  United  [REDACTED]  senator,  a  fourteen-year-  old  rock-'n'-roll  singer,  and  a  pretender  to  the  Serbian  throne-and  he  thought  about  giving  up.  At  that  moment,  the  phone  rang.  It  was  a  newspaper  re-  porter.  Barnett  thought  the  man  had  the  wrong  Frummer,  but  the  reporter  assured  him  that  he,  Barnett  Frummer,  was  getting  so  well  known  around  town  for  his  &quot;amusing  and  burlesque  adventures  as  a  party  adviser&quot;  that  he  would  make  a  perfectsubject  for  an  interview.  The  interview  appeared  the  next  morning,  but  even  before  that-  late  the  same  night,  in  fact,  just  a  few  minutes  after  the  early  editions  were  put  on  the  trucks-Frummer  received  a  call  from  Myrna  Nardling.  She  thought  it  would  be  nice  if  he  were  the  guest  of  honor  at  a  little  dinner  she  was  giving  Saturday  night.  Nothing  formal,  just  the  usual  crowd.  &quot;So  nice  to  see  you,&quot;  Myrna  said  at  the  door,  kissing  Barnett  on  the  cheek.  &quot;It's  been  so  long.  Scott  Kulchek,  the  racing  driver,  has  been  talking  of  nothing  else  but  that  marvellous  piece  on  you.&quot;  &quot;What  a  marvellous  party!&quot;  said  Frummer.  &quot;Nice  to  see  the  Cretins  again;  they're  a  kick.  I  remember  the  F3     time  Rosalie  Mondle  said  to  them-  Is  she  here,  by  the  way?&quot;  &quot;No,  she's  not,&quot;  said  Myrna,  with  some  irritation.  &quot;I  asked  her,of  course.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  she's  got  an  opening  or  something,&quot;  Frummer  said.  His  dis-  appointment  was  somewhat  blunted  by  the  knowledge  that,  being  on  the  circuit  himself  now,  he  would  probably  see  her  at  the  next  party.  &quot;No,  as  a  matter  of  fact  she  said  she's  staying  home  to  help  Roland  Magruder  sew  some  insignia  on  his  Army  Reserve  uniforms,&quot;  said  Myrna.  &quot;But  come  in  the  living  room  and  hear  the  poem  Ren\xc3\xa9  Plenet  has  written  about  you.&quot;  &quot;Marvellous  party,&quot;  mumbled  Bar-  nett.  &quot;It's  been  so  long.&quot;  He  won-  dered  how  long  he'd  have  to  stay.  Before  Myrna  phoned,he  had  been  working  out  a  mathematical  equation  on  the  percentages  of  ending  up  in  the  same  elevator  with  Rosalie  if  he  started  going  to  a  dentist  in  the  building  her  office  was  in,  and  he  was  anxious  to  get  back  to  his  figures. "