 b"WEE,  sleekit,  cowrin,  tim'rous  beastie,&quot;  sang  Robert  Burns,  dipping  his  pen  into  triple-  distilled  schmalz  to  apostrophize  a  mouse,  &quot;O,  what  a  panic's  in  thy  breastie!&quot;  That  the  little  creatures  are  capable  of  inducing  similar  and  immod-  erate  panic  in  someone  else's  breastie  is,  of  course,  a  commonplace,  but  until  quite  recently  nobody  seems  to  have  had  the  imagination  to  use  them  as  deliber-  ate  instruments  of  terror.  The  first  ink-  ling  I  had  of  their  conversion  was  in  a  dispatch  to  the  Times  from  [REDACTED]  about  a  year  ago.  &quot;[REDACTED]  Houlton,  a  clerk,  was  alone  in  a  small  shop  in  the  [REDACTED]  suburbs,&quot;  it  said.  &quot;Two  young  men  entered,  one  carrying  a  paper  bag.  Without  a  word,  the  youth  placed  the  bag  on  the  counter  and  opened  it.  Out  scampered  four  white  mice.  Out  of  the  store  scampered  [REDACTED],  in  shrieking  flight  from  the  mice.  The  youths  then  stepped  out  a  side  door,  got  into  the  shop's  delivery  truck,  and  drove  away.&quot;  Soon  afterward,  another  blitz  involv-  ing  rodents,  this  time  political,  oc-  curred  in  the  Iberian  [REDACTED].  Dur-  ing  a  concert  in  537061696e  by  a  group  of  singers  and  dancers  from  43756261,  ac-  cording  to  the  Times  of  [REDACTED],  a  group  of  Cuban  exiles  created  an  up-  roar  by  shouting  abuse  at  the  perform-  ers,  hurling  stink  bombs,  and  showering     &quot;Like  they  say,  the  audience  with  leaflets.  &quot;The  release  in  the  stalls  of  mice-and  some  claim  there  were  a  few  rats,&quot;  the  correspond-  ent  noted  with  relish,  &quot;added  to  the  con-  fusion  as  women  screamed  and  shrieked.&quot;  It  took  an  equally  volatile  but  more  enterprising  race,  the  Italians,  however,  to  perfect  the  weapon.  This  Week  in  Rome,  a  bulletin  of  convenient  in-  formation  for  tourists,  reported  that  Luigi  Squarzina,  author  of  a  play  called  &quot;Romagnola,&quot;  had  filed  suit  against  a  clutch  of  neo-Fascist  hoodlums  for  at-  tempting  to  sabotage  its  premicre.  T  wo  other  disturbances  from  the  same  source  made  news,  continued  the  item,  &quot;one  particularly  on  account  of  the  fact  that  mice  were  let  down  on  para-  chutes  from  the  balcony  into  the  stalls.&quot;  The  selection  of  mice  staunch  enough  to  become  paratroopers,  their  indoctrination,  and  the  commando  training  requisite  for  such  warfare  are  too  complex  for  anyone  less  than  Han-  son  W.  Baldwin  to  explicate.  Notwith-  standing,  one  aspect  of  the  subject  cries  out-all  right,  whimpers-for  elucida-  tion.  The  artisan  who  confects  these  minuscule  parachutes-what  manner  of  chap  is  he?  What  specialized  problems  and  stresses  confront  him?  Rather  than  indulge  in  windy  hypotheses,  let's  slip  into  something  brief  and  gossamer-  sheer,  like  a  playlet,  and  see  if  we  can't    gain  an  insight  into  h  is  temperament  and  assoc  iates.  Settle  dow  n,  curtain's  u  p.  Sern:  A  workr  oo  m  on  the  fif  th  floor  of  a  tenement  in  the  Tras  tevere  quar-  ter  o  f  Rome.  In  the  wea  k  ligh  t  filter-  i  ng  through  the  windows  at  rear,  near-  ly  opaque  with  dust  and  accumulated  sp  ider  w  ebs,  two  small  figures  are  dimly  v  isible  ,  seated  cross-legged  on  a  bench.  They  are  apparently  occup  i  ed  in  some  form  of  invisible  w  eaving,  fo  r  each  squints  through  a  magn  ifyin  g  len  s  as  he  ples  a  needle,  threaded  with  filaments  umperceptible  to  the  naked  eye,  through  minute  scallops  of  nylon.  Baldassare  Vo  lante  ,  the  elde  r  of  the  pair  and  boss  of  the  firm,  is  a  wizened  Tom  Thumb  who,  poised  o  n  tiptoe,  w  ould  measure  a  scant  forty-eight  inches.  Scarcely  a  head  tal  ler  is  Beppo,  his  apprentice,  a  robust  cockerel  in  his  twenties,  with  un-  ruly  blond  curls  an  d  a  dimple  suf-  ficiently  like  Ki  rk  Douglas's  t  o  flutter  any  feminine  heart.  \xe2\x80\x98  7  OLANTE  (tossing  a  finished  para-  chute  onto  a  pile):  Basta!  There-  that's  thirty-five,  and,  with  your  fifteen,  the  Twentieth  Century-Fox  order  is  complete.  Yes,  sirree,  Beppo-a  few  more  commissions  from  minority  stock-  holders  bent  on  disrupting  their  annual  meeting  and  we'll  be  on  Via  Agiata  (Easy  Street).  Beppo:  With  respect  to  that,  Signor  Volante,  and  with  all  due  re-  spect  to  yourself,  may  I  re-  spectfully  speak  what  is  in  my  heart?  .  VoranmE:  Respect,  respect-  take  the  polenta  out  of  your  mouth!  What  are  you  trying  to  say,  man?  BEpro:  Just  that  my  con-  science  impels  me  to  warn  you,  padrone.  Our  business  is  in  mortal  peril.  VoLraNnNTE  (agitatedly)  :  You've  overheard  some  ru-  mors  ...  some  gossip  ...  Beppo:  No,  no-  VoraNTE  (seizing  him  by  the  throat):  Somebody's  be-  trayed  us  to  the  police,  to  the  Ministry  of  Sanitation!  Who  was  it?  Spit  it  out,  you  dog!  Brprpo:  Sir,  I  entreat  you  on  my  sainted  mother's  virtue-  your  fears  are  groundless  VorantE:  It's  Serafina,  that  old  hag  of  a  portiere  downstairs.  She  offered  me  her  body  eight-  een  years  ago,  and  I  recoiled  in  contempt.  Now  she's  brought  an  information  against  me.  " b"Beppo:  But  you  forget,  commende-  tore-there's  nothing  illegal  about  our  product.  We  furnish  little  parachutes  to  anyone  who  needs  them.  VorantTE:  Why,  that's  right,  come  to  think  of  it.  We're  a  service  organ-  ization,  aren't  we?  BrEppo:  Nothing  more.  And  are  we  responsible  if  they're  used  to  create  disorder?  When  some  elderly  virgin,  unhinged  by  jealousy,  hurls  a  phial  of  acid  at  a  voluptuous  nude  by  Titian,  is  the  apothecary  who  sold  it  to  blame?  VorantE:  Of  course  not.  A  brilliant  analogy,  Beppo.  I  never  realized  you  had  a  poetic  gift.  Beppo:  Coming  from  one  in  whose  veins  there  flows  the  blood  of  Dante  Alighieri,  that  is  praise  indeed,  em-  nenza.  I  thank  you  humbly.  VoranTE:  Yes,  you'll  go  far  in  this  business,  my  boy.  But  tell  me-what,  then,  is  the  danger  you  speak  of?  Beppo:  Overspecialization,  sir.  We  must  branch  out,  I  beseech  you.  In  the  hurly-burly  of  modern  combat  (me/  chiasso  del  combattimento  moderno),  the  airborne  warrior  requires  a  modi-  cum  of  equipment  to  survive,  be  he  man  or  quadruped.  VoranTE:  Now,  don't  start  that  stuff  again.  We're  not  tooled  up  to  produce  little  jump  suits  and  shock-  proof  watches.  BEppo  (pleading):  But  a  pair  of  boots  at  the  very  least,  sir,  if  only  for  the  psychological  effect.  It  vitiates  all  the  menace  to  drop  from  the  sky  with  four  naked  feet.  VoranTE  (shortly):  If  naked  feet  weregood  enough  for  Icarus,they're  good  enough  for  a  mouse.  Let's  have  no  more  schmoos.  BEprpo:  I  defer  to  your  vastly  supe-  rior  judgment,  Excellency.  I  spoke  as  youth  is  wont  to,  in  a  freshet  of  impetuosity.  VorantTE:  I  sensed  that,  figlhuolo.  In  any  case,  I  have  other  matters  to  occupy  me.  This  is  a  red-letter  day,  Beppo.  As  all  the  world  knows,  my  beautiful  daughter  Ippolita,  who  has  just  graduated  from  Perugia  U.,  is  due  home  momentarily,  and  I  must  hie  me  on  down  to  the  drogheria  to  buy  some  cakes  and  wine  for  a  celebration.  BEppo:  Maestro,  I  shall  defend  the  premises  with  my  very  life  till  you  return.  VoranTE:  Never  mind  the  rodo-  montade-just  keep  your  paws  out  of  the  cash  drawer.  (He  exits.)  Beppo  (chuckling):  Che  riso  sar-  donico!  Little  does  the  old  pantaloon  suspect  that  Ippolita  and  I  have  been  secretly  affianced  for  months,  that  we  daily  exchange  burning  epistles,  and  P4     that  I  would  enclasp  her  hair  in  a  snood  of  stars,  so  enslaved  am  I  by  her  charms.  (He  stiffens  at  the  sound  of  a  soft,  repeated  knock  on  the  window  at  rear.  As  he  hastens  to  it  and  raises  the  sash,  Ippolita,  a  toothsome  blend  of  Claudia  Cardinale  and  Amouk  Aim\xc3\xa9e,  and  whose  eyes  bespeak  intelligence  on  a  par  with  Amy  Lowell's,  is  disclosed  on  the  fire  escape,  suitcase  and  diploma  in  hand.)  Ippolita  carissima!  What  are  you  doing  there?  Irrporrra:  This  is  no  time  for  chin  music  (stridore  di  denti).  Lift  me  down.  (Beppo  complies-not  without  visible  effort,  since  she  towers  above  him.)  Listen,  I  must  have  a  word  with  you  before  my  father  comes  back.  A  serious  crisis  is  imminent.  Beppo:  What's  wrong?  Ipporrra:  Have  you  ever  heard  of  a  publishing  firm  in  [REDACTED]  named  23  Barber  &amp;  Farber?  Concentrate-rack  your  brain.  BrErppo:  Let  me  think.  I  seem  to  recall  ...  Why,  of  course-that  big  package  there  on  the  shelf!  I  was  just  shipping  them  a  consignment  by  air  express.  Iprportra:  Of  two  hundred  chutes.  Am  I  correct?  Beppo  (bewildered):  Yes,  but  how  on  earth  did  you  know?  Ipportra:  Because  Barbara  Sparber,  my  roommate  at  Perugia,  is  the  daugh-  ter  of  Marboro  Sparber,  the  distin-  guished  New  York  publisher  who  is  their  deadliest  rival.  Do  you  follow?  BrEppo:  I  ..  .  I  think  so.  Irpourra:  Good.  Well,  late  last  night,  Marboro  Sparber  telephoned  Barbara  that  his  firm's  best-selling  novel,  &quot;Scarborough  Harbor,&quot;  by  Sah-  bra  Garber,  was  a  certainty  to  win  " b" the  National  Book  Award  next  week.  ...  Why  do  you  look  so  puz-  zZled?  Brrprpo  (faintly):  Er-  Nothing,  nothing.  Go  on.  Irprporrra:  Now  ,  attend  me  closely,  for  here  comes  the  wieni  e  .  Marboro  S  parbe  r  has  been  tipped  off  that  a  mo-  ment  before  the  award  is  announced  in  the  grand  ballroom  of  the  Hotel  Astor,  hirelings  of  Barber  &amp;  Farber  are  going  to  strafe  t  he  assemblage  from  the  mez-  zani  ne.  At  a  given  signal,  the  lights  will  be  extinguished,  and  two  hundred  mice,  dipped  in  phosphorus  to  glow  in  the  dark,  will  flutter  down  on  the  gue  sts,  ninety  per  cent  of  wh  om  are  female.  The  veriest  donkey  could  d  ivine  the  co  nsequ  en  ces.  Beppo  (duly  divining  them):  It  will  be  a  catastrophe-uwn  pamico  unmi-  ve  rsale!  Iprorrr  a:  That's  for  sure.  The  re-  sul  tant  melee  will  discredit  the  Nation-  al  Book  Award,  make  my  Barbara's  father  a  laughingstock  in  Publishers'  Row,  and  wash  up  her  e  ngagement  to  Tabori  Czab  o,  a  Hungarian  boy  at  Harvard  she's  mad  about.  Bepp  o,  this  rotten  stratagem  must  b  e  thwarted  at  all  costs.  Beppo:  Shucks,  honey,  what  can  I  do?  I'm  only  an  obscure  apprentice-  Irrorrra:  Simpleton.  Idiot  boy.  Don't  you  see?  You,  and  you  alone,  have  the  power  to  knock  the  whole  scheme  into  a  cocked  hat.     &quot;For  a  kindly  old  man,  he's  mighty  quick  with  th  e  whip.&quot;  Y  EZ  Y  P  Beppo  (cunningly):  You  mean  by  not  sending  the  chutes  to  Barber  &amp;  Farber?  Ipporrra:  Nothing  of  the  sort,  stu-  pid.  Ship  them,  by  all  means-but  first,  prick  each  and  every  one  with  a  needle  so  they'll  collapse  in  midair!  Brppo:  But  how  does  that  help  matters?  'The  mice  would  plummet  down  with  even  greater  force  on  the  target.  IppoLrrA  (carelessly):  Oh,  once  the  element  of  showmanship  is  removed,  the  audience,  already  narcotized  by  the  speeches,  will  hardly  notice.  Well,  how's  about  it?  BrPppo:  Ippolita-do  you  realize  what  you're  saying?  You're  asking  me  to  sacrifice  your  father's  reputation.  He's  built  up  a  clientele  by  years  of  hard  work-  Irprportra:  Ach,  stow  the  sentimen-  tal  slop.  I'm  offering  you  a  choice.  Beppo:  I  ..  .  I  don't  understand.  Irprorrra:  Between  love  and  duty,  you  clod.  Either  do  as  I  ask  or  it's  all  over  between  us-caepisci?  Beppo  (with  a  nobility  Sydney  Car-  ton  would  have  envied):  Very  well,  then.  Bastinado  my  feet,  reduce  me  to  mincemeat,  boil  me  in  Vesuvius-I  shall  never  betray  Baldassare  Volante.  Goodbye.  VoLANTE  (flinging  open  the  door):  Bravo!  What  did  I  tell  you,  Ippolita!  Irrporrra:  Beppo,  angelo  mio-  come  into  my  arms!  (She  stoops,  sweeps  him  u  p  in  an  embra  ce  .)  Oh,  darling,  how  happy  you've  mad  e  me!  Brprpo  (fummoxed):  Is  this  all  a  drea  m?  Am  I  in  Paradise?  What's  h  appened?  VoraNTE:  Mere  ly  that  you've  pas  sed  our  test  with  flying  colors.  I  wanted  to  b  e  sure  of  my  fut  ure  son-in-  law.  Bep  po:  Then-the  whole  thing  about  the  publishers  was  a  confection?  Ipp  oura:  Totally.  P  apa  and  I  made  it  up  between  us,  every  bit.  Beppo:  Bu  t  I'  m  certain  the  Hotel  As  tor  exists.  I  once  smoked  a  cigar  by  tha  t  name.  Irporrra:  A  coincidence.  I  can  as-  sure  yo  u  that  there's  no  such  thing  as  th  e  Nationa  l  Book  Award-and  even  if  t  here  we  re,  a  few  mice  here  and  there  woul  dn'  t  make  a  scrap  of  dif-  ference.  BErrpo  (emotionally):  Signor  Vo-  lante,  I'd  like  you  to  know  one  thing.  Y  ou  haven't  lost  a  daughter,  you've  gaine  d  a  son.  VorantE:  I  withdraw  what  I  sa  id  earlier  abou  t  your  poetic  gift.  (Re-  signedly)  Allora,  take  he  r,  my  boy  ,  and  one  of  th  ese  days,  no  doubt,  there'll  be  another  little  warrior  descending  from  Heaven-but  this  time  a  biped  with  no  strings  attached.  (Maidenly  blushes  from  Ippolita,  suitably  hymene-  al  music,  and  .  ..  CURTAIN "