 b"My  DrEar  VaARDEBEDIAN:  WAS  more  than  a  bit  chagrined  today,  on  going  through  the  morn-  ing's  mail,  to  find  that  my  letter  of  September  16,  containing  my  twenty-  second  move  (knight  to  the  king's  fourth  square),  was  returned  unopened  due  to  a  small  error  in  addressing-  precisely,  the  omission  of  your  name  and  residence  (how  Freudian  can  one  get?  ),  coupled  with  a  failure  to  append  postage.  That  I  havebeen  disconcerted  of  late  due  to  equivocation  in  the  stock  market  is  no  secret,  and  though  on  the  above-mentioned  September  16  the  cul-  mination  of  a  long-standing  downward  spiral  dropped  Amalgamated  Anti-  Matter  off  the  Big  Board  once  and  for  all,  reducing  my  broker  suddenly  to  the  legume  family,  I  do  not  offer  this  as  an  excuse  for  my  negligence  and  monumental  ineptitude.  I  goofed.  Forgive  me.  That  you  failed  to  notice  the  missing  letter  indicates  a  certain  disconcertion  on  your  part,  which  I  put  down  to  zeal,  but  heaven  knows  we  all  make  mistakes.  That's  life-and  chess.  Well,  then,  the  error  laid  bare,  sim-  ple  rectification  follows.  If  you  would  be  so  good  as  to  transfer  my  knight  to  your  king's  fourth  square  I  think  we  may  proceed  with  our  little  game  more  accurately.  The  announcement  of  checkmate  which  you  made  in  this  morning's  mail  is,  I  fear,  in  all  fairness,  a  false  alarm,  and  if  you  will  re\xc3\xa9xamine  the  positions  in  light  of  today's  discov-  ery,  you  will  find  that  itis  your  king  that  lies  close  to  mate,  exposed  and  un-  defended,  an  immobile  target  for  my  predatory  bishops.  Ironic,  the  vicissi-  tudes  of  miniature  war!  Fate,  in  the  guise  of  the  dead-letter  office,  waxes  omnipotent  and-voild!  -the  worm  turns.  Once  again,  I  begyou  accept  sincerest  apologies  for  the  unfortunate  carelessness,  and  I  await  anxiously  your  next  move.  Enclosed  is  my  forty-fifth  move:  My  knight  captures  your  queen.  Sincerely,  Gossace  Gossage:  RECEIVED  the  letter  this  morning  containing  your  forty-fifth  move  (your  knight  captures  my  queen?  ),  and  also  your  lengthy  explanation  regarding  the  mid-September  ellipsis  in  our  cor-  respondence.  Let  me  see  if  I  understand  you  correctly.  Your  knight,  which  I  removed  from  the  board  weeks  ago,  you  now  claim  should  be  resting  on  the  king's  fourth  square,  owing  to  a  letter  lost  in  the  mail  twenty-three  moves  ago.  I  was  not  aware  that  any  such  mishap  had  occurred,  and  remember  distinctly  your  making  a  twenty-second  move,  which  I  think  was  your  rook  to  the  queen's  sixth  square,  where  it  was  sub-  sequently  butchered  in  a  gambit  of  yours  that  misfired  tragically,  Currently,  the  king's  fourth  square  is  occupied  by  my  rook,  and  as  you  are  knightless,  the  dead-letter  office  not-  withstanding,  I  cannot  quite  understand  what  piece  you  are  using  to  capture  my  queen  with.  What  I  think  you  mean,  as  most  of  your  pieces  are  blockaded,  is  that  you  request  your  king  be  moved  to  my  bishop's  fourth  square  (your  only  possibility  )-an  adjustment  I  have  tak-  en  the  liberty  of  making  and  then  counteringwith  today's  move,  my  forty-sixth,  wherein  I  capture  your  queen  and  put  your  king  in  check.  Now  your  letter  becomes  clearer.  I  think  now  the  last  remaining  moves  of  the  game  can  be  plaved  out  with  smoothness  and  alacrity.  Faithfully,  V  ARDEBEDIAN  VARDEBEDIAN:  HAVE  just  finished  perusing  your  latest  note,  the  one  containing  a  bizarre  forty-sixth  move  dealing  with  the  removal  of  my  queen  from  a  square  on  which  it  hasnot  rested  for  eleven  days.  Through  patient  calculation,  I  think  I  have  hit  upon  the  cause  of  your  confusion  and  misunderstanding  of  the  existing  facts.  That  your  rook  rests  on  the  king's  fourth  square  is  an  impossibil-  ity  commensurate  with  two  like  snow-  flakes;  if  you  will  refer  back  to  the  ninth  move  of  the  game,  you  will  see  clearly  that  your  rook  has  long  been  cap-  tured.  Indeed,  it  was  that  same  daring  sacrificial  combination  that  ripped  your  center  and  cost  you  both  your  rooks.  What  are  they  doing  on  the  board  now?  " b"I  offer  for  your  consideration  that  what  happened  is  as  follows:  The  in-  tensity  of  foray  and  whirlwind  ex-  changes  on  and  about  the  twenty-second  move  left  you  in  a  state  of  slight  dissoci-  ation,  and  in  your  anxiety  to  hold  your  own  at  that  point  you  failed  to  notice  that  my  usual  letter  was  not  forthcom-  ing  but  instead  moved  your  own  pieces  twice,  giving  you  a  somewhat  unfair  advantage,  wouldn't  you  say?  This  is  over  and  done  with,  and  to  retrace  our  steps  tediously  would  be  difficult,  if  not  impossible.  Therefore,  I  feel  the  best  way  to  rectify  this  entire  matter  is  to  al-  low  me  the  opportunity  of  two  consecu-  tive  moves  at  this  time.  Fair  is  fair.  First,  then,  I  take  your  bishop  with  my  pawn.  Then,  as  this  leaves  your  queen  unprotected,  I  capture  her  also.  I  think  we  can  now  proceed  with  the  last  stages  unhampered.  Sincerely,  Gossace  [REDACTED]:  I  am  enclosing  a  diagram  show-  ing  exactly  how  the  board  now  looks,  for  your  edification  in  your  closing  play.  As  you  can  see,  your  king  is  trapped,  unguarded  and  alone  in  the  center.  Best  to  you.  G.  GossacEe:  RECEIVED  your  latest  letter  today,  and  while  it  was  just  shy  of  co-  herence,  I  think  I  can  see  where  your  bewilderment  lies.  From  your  enclosed  diagram,  it  has  become  apparent  to  me  that  for  the  past  six  weeks  we  have  been  playing  two  completely  different  chess  games-myself  according  to  our  cor-  respondence,  you  more  in  keeping  with  the  world  as  you  would  have  it,  rather  than  with  any  rational  system  of  order.  The  knight  move  which  allegedly  got  lost  in  the  mail  would  have  been  im-  possible  on  the  twenty-second  move,  as  the  piece  was  then  standing  on  the  edge  ofthe  last  file,  and  the  move  you  de-  scribe  would  have  brought  it  to  rest  on  the  coffee  table,  next  to  the  board.  As  for  granting  you  two  consecutive  moves  to  make  up  for  one  allegedly  lost  in  the  mail-surely  you  jest,  Pops.  I  will  honor  your  first  move  (you  take  my  bishop),  but  I  cannot  allow  the  second,  and  as  it  is  now  my  turn,  I  re-  taliate  by  removing  your  queen  with  my  rook.  The  fact  that  you  tell  me  I  have  no  rooks  means  little  in  actuality,  as  I  need  only  glance  downward  at  the  board  to  see  them  darting  about  with  cunning  and  vigor.  Finally,  that  diagram  of  what  you  fantasize  the  board  to  look  like  indicates  a  freewheeling,  Marx  Brothers  approach  to  the  game,  and,  while  amusing,  this  hardly  speaks  well  for  your  assim-  ilation  of  &quot;Nimzowitsch  on  Chess,&quot;  which  you  hustled  from  the  library  under  your  alpaca  sweater  last  winter,  because  I  saw  you.  I  suggest  you  study  the  diagram  I  enclose  and  rearrange  your  board  accordingly,  that  we  might  finish  up  with  some  degree  of  precision.  Hopefully,  VARDEBEDIAN  VARDEBEDIAN:  NOT  wanting  to  protract  an  al-  ready  disoriented  business  (I  know  your  recent  illness  has  left  your  usually  hardy  constitution  somewhat  fragment-  ed  and  disorganized,  causing  a  mild  breach  with  the  real  world  as  we  know  it),  I  must  take  this  opportunity  to  undo  our  sordid  tangle  of  circumstances  be-  fore  it  progresses  irrevocably  to  a  Kafkaesque  conclusion.  Had  I  realized  you  were  not  gentle-  man  enough  to  allow  me  an  equalizing  second  move,  I  would  not,  on  my  forty-  sixth  move,  have  permitted  my  pawn  to  capture  your  bishop.  According  to  your  own  diagram,  in  fact,  these  two  pieces  were  so  placed  as  to  render  that  impos-  sible,  bound  as  we  are  to  rules  established  by  the  World  Chess  Federation  and  not  the  New  York  State  Boxing  Commis-  sion.  Without  doubting  that  your  intent  was  constructive  in  removing  my  queen,  I  interject  that  only  disaster  can  ensue  when  you  arrogate  to  yourself  this  arbi-  trary  power  of  decision  and  begin  to  play  dictator,  masking  tactical  blunders  with  duplicity  and  aggression-a  habit  you  decried  in  our  world  leaders  several  months  ago  in  your  paper  on  de  Sade  and  Non-Violence.  Unfortunately,  the  game  having  gone  on  non-stop,  I  have  not  been  able  to  calculate  exactly  on  which  square  you  ought  to  replace  the  purloined  knight,  and  I  suggest  we  leave  it  to  the  gods  by  having  me  close  my  eyes  and  toss  it  back  on  the  board,  agreeing  to  accept  whatever  spot  it  may  land  on.  It  should  add  an  element  of  spice  to  " b" our  little  encounter.  My  forty\xe2\x80\x94Seventh  move:  My  rook  captures  your  knight.  Sincerely,  GossacE  GossacE:  OW  curious  your  last  letter  was!  Well-intended,  concise,  contain-  ing  all  the  elements  that  would  appear  to  make  up  what  passes  among  certain  reference  groups  as  a  communicative  cffect,  yet  tinged  throughout  by  what  Jean-Paul  Sartre  is  so  fond  of  referring  to  as  &quot;nothingness.&quot;  One  is  immedi-  ately  struck  by  a  profound  sense  of  despair,  and  reminded  vividly  of  the  diaries  sometimes  left  by  doomed  ex-  plorers  lost  at  the  Pole,  or  the  letters  of  German  soldiers  at  Stalingrad.  Fas-  cinating  how  the  senses  disintegrate  when  faced  with  an  occasional  black  truth,  and  scamper  amuck,  substantiat-  ing  mirage  and  constructing  a  precari-  ous  buffer  against  the  onslaught  of  all  too  terrifying  existence!  Be  that  as  it  may,  my  friend,  I  have  just  spent  the  better  part  of  a  week  sorting  out  the  miasma  of  lunatic  alibis  known  as  your  correspondence  in  an  effort  to  adjust  matters,  that  our  game  may  be  finished  simply  once  and  for  all.  Your  queen  is  gone.  Kiss  it  off.  So  are  both  your  rooks.  Forget  about  one  bishop  altogether,  because  I  took  it.  The  other  is  so  impotently  placed  away  from  the  main  action  of  the  game  that  don't  count  on  it  or  it'll  break  your  heart.  As  regards  the  knight  you  lost  squarely  but  refuse  to  give  up,I  have  replaced  it  at  the  only  conceivable  po-  sition  it  could  appear,  thus  granting  you  the  most  incredible  brace  of  un-  orthodoxies  since  the  Persians  whipped  up  this  little  diversion  way  back  when.  It  lies  at  my  bishop's  seventh  square,  and  if  you  can  pulk  your  ebbing  facul-  ties  together  long  enough  to  appraise  the  board  you  will  notice  this  same  cov-  eted  piece  now  blocks  your  king's  only  means  of  escape  from  my  suffocating  pincer.  How  fitting  that  your  greedy  plot  be  turned  to  my  advantage!  The  knight,  grovelling  its  way  back  into  play,  torpedoes  your  end  game!  My  move  is  queen  to  knight  five,  and  I  predict  mate  in  one  move.  Cordially,  VARDEBEDIAN  VARDEBEDIAN  :  BVIOUSLY  the  constant  tension  incurred  defending  a  series  of  numbingly  hopeless  chess  positions  has  rendered  the  delicate  machinery  of  your  psychic  apparatus  sluggish,  leaving  its  grasp  of  external  phenomena  a  jot  flimsy.  You  give  me  no  alternative  but  to  end  the  contest  swiftly  and  merci-  fully,  removing  the  pressure  before  it  leaves  you  permanently  damaged.  Knight-yes,  knight!  -to  queen  six.  Check.  Gossace  Gossage:  ISHOP  to  queen  five.  Checkmate.  Sorry  the  competition  proved  too  much  for  you,  but  if  it's  any  con-  solation,  several  local  chess  masters  have,  upon  observing  my  technique,  flipped  out.  Should  you  want  a  rematch,  I  suggest  we  try  Scrabble,  a  relatively  new  interest  of  mine,  and  one  that  I  might  conceivably  not  run  away  with  so  easily.  VARDEBEDIAN  VARDEBEDIAN:  ROCK  to  knight  eight.  Checkmate.  Rather  than  torment  you  with  the  further  details  of  my  mate,  as  I  believe  you  are  basically  a  decent  man  (one  day,  some  form  of  therapy  will  bear  me  out),  I  accept  your  invitation  to  Scrabble  in  good  spirits.  Get  out  your  set.  Since  you  played  white  in  chess  and  thereby  enjoyed  the  advantage  of  the  first  move  (had  I  known  your  lim-  tations,  I  would  have  spotted  you  more),  I  shall  make  the  first  play.  The  seven  letters  I  have  just  turned  up  are  O,  A,  E,  J,  N,  R,  and  Z-an  unpromising  jumble  that  should  guar-  antee,  even  to  the  most  suspicious,  the  integrity  of  my  draw.  Fortunately,  however,  an  extensive  vocabulary,  cou-  pled  with  a  penchant  for  esoterica,  has  enabled  me  to  bring  etymological  or-  der  out  of  what,  to  one  less  literate,  might  seem  a  mishmash.  My  first  word  is  &quot;ZANJERO.&quot;  Look  it  up.  Now  lay  it  out,  horizontally,  the  E  resting  on  the  center  square.  Count  carefully,  not  overlooking  the  double  word  score  for  an  opening  move  and  the  fifty-point  bonus  for  my  use  of  all  seven  letters.  The  score  is  now  116-0.  Your  move.  Gossace "