 b"UP  until  a  couple  of  years  ago,  the  l  I  Christmases  I  have  known  have  been  in  lands  of  the  fir  tree  and  pine.  The  same  is  true  of  my  wife,  who  is  a  New  Englander  and  whose  Christ-  mases  have  been  observed  in  a  cold  setting,  Bostonian  in  design.  But  times  change,  circumstances  alter,  health  glides  slowly  downhill,  and  there  is,  of  course,  Christmas  in  lands  of  the  palm  tree  and  vine-which  is  what  we  were  up  against  last  month.  Our  Christmas,  1965,  was  spent  in  a  rented  house  on  the  edge  of  a  canal  in  [REDACTED],  locally  called  a  bayou.  I  knew  there  would  have  to  be  certain  adjustments,  emotional  and  physical,  to  this  shift  in  ceremony,  but  I  guess  I  was  not  quite  prepared  for  them  and  had  not  really  figured  them  out.  It  was  obvious  to  both  of  us  that  we  were  not  looking  forward  to  being  away  from  home  at  Christmas,  but  I  busied  myself  with  road  maps  and  thermos  arrangements  and  kept  my  mind  off  the  Nativity.  We  arrived  in  [REDACTED]  tired  from  the  long  motor  journey  but  essentially  cheerful  and  ready  for  anything.  The  house  we  walked  into  had  been  engaged  sight  unseen,  and  this  is  always  fun  and  full  of  jolts,  like  a  ride  at  an  amusement  park.  Our  pleasure  palace  was  built  of  cinder  blocks  and  was  painted  Shocking  pink.  The  prin-  cipal  tree  on  the  place  was  a  tall  power  pole  sprouting  transformers;  it  stood  a  few  feet  from  the  canal  and  threw  a  pleasant  shade  across  the  drive.  The  house  itself,  we  soon  discovered,  was  wonderfully  supplied  with  modern  labor-saving  appliances  and  almost  completely  bare  of  any  other  sort  of  furnishing.  We  found  an  automatic  washing  machine,  a  dryer,  an  automat-  ic  dishwasher,  a  reverse-cycle  heating-  and-air-conditioning  unit  that  had  just  burned  out  its  compressor  and  was  ly-  ing  in  disarray  behind  a  board  fence  out-  side,  a  disposal  device  that  would  grind  up  a  grapefruit  rind  if  you  cut  the  rind  into  slices,  a  big  refrigerator,  an  electric  wall  oven,  an  electric  stove,  an  electric  warming  oven,  and  so  on.  All  this  was  pretty  good  except  that  there  was  no  ice  bucket,  no  water  pitcher,  no  rugs  on  the  terrazzo  floors,  no  pictures  on  the  pastel  walls  no  bookshelves,  no  books,  and  no  garbage  pail.  There  were  bathrooms  everywhere  you  turned,  but  I  saw  no  sign  that  anybody  had  ever  done  anything  in  the  house  except  take  baths  and  adjust  the  controls  on  the  machinery.  When  we  were  rested  from  our  trip,  we  started  buying  things  forthe  house,  mostly  from  a  large  department  store  in  town.  This  store  fell  into  the  habit  of  delivering  most  of  our  purchases  not  to  us  but  to  a  house  next  door,  whose  owners  were  away.  We  got  on  the  phone  and  stayed  there  for  most  of  the  daylight  hours.  Several  days  before  Christmas,  I  be-  gan  to  notice  that  my  wife  was  suffer-  ing  from  crying  spells,  all  of  them  of  short  duration.  I  would  find  her  weep-  ing  quietly  in  what  seemed  like  elegant,  if  uncomfortable,  surroundings.  &quot;It's  [REDACTED]  that  is  making  me  feel  this  way,&quot;  she  said.  But  I  did  not  believe  it  was  [REDACTED].  I  knew  her  well  enough,  in  her  December  phase,  to  know  that  something  far  deeper  than  43616e616461east  Asia  was  at  work.  I  was  too  busy  to  cry.  There  was  a  man  that  came  each  day  to  work  on  the  collapsed  heating  system.  He  was  from  a  firm  called  &quot;Air  Comfort&quot;  and  was  a  fine,  brave,  taciturn  man.  I  would  find  him  in  a  kneeling  position,  as  though  he  were  a  figure  in  a  creche,  gazing  at  the  tangle  of  tubes  and  wires  left  by  the  removal  of  the  burned-out  compressor.  He,  too,  seemed  melancholy,  but  did  not  weep.  He  kept  his  own  counsel  and  did  what  he  could,  hour  after  hour,  to  remedy  an  almost  impossible  situation.  I  felt  that  if  I  hung  around  him  long  enough,  I  might  catch  the  drift  of  the  reverse-cycle  system  and  pick  up  a  crumb  or  two  of  knowledge  that  would  stand  me  in  good  stead  later  on.  On  the  west  side  of  the  building  I  found  a  pile  of  fatwood  logs,  and  when  the  living  room  became  chilly  I  would  light  a  fire.  The  logs  left  no  ash;  it  was  as  though  you  were  burning  clear  kerosene.  The  weather  held  good,  and  we  were  not  really  cold.  The  sunsets  were  spectacular.  But  the  sun  always  sank  behind  the  Australian  pines  and  the  palms  on  the  opposite  shore  across  the  Pass,  and  I  knew  that  my  wife  and  I  were,  unconsciously,  watching  it  descend  in  its  more  familiar  rim  behind  the  birches,  the  black  spruces,  the  firs,  the  hackmatacks  across  the  road  from  our  house  in  [REDACTED].  Like  everything  else  in  [REDACTED],  the  birds  seemed  inappropriate.  I  happen  to  admire  the  Mourning  Dove,  but  by  no  stretch  of  the  eardrum  can  its  lament  be  called  Christmassy.  I  like  to  see  the  [REDACTED]  Buzzard  wheeling  in  the  sky,  but  he  is  not  a  merry  bird,  like  the  Chickadee;  his  vigil  is  for  the  dying.  There  arrived  in  the  mail  a  program  of  the  Christmas  ceremony  in  the  school  at  home,  reporting  that  our  youngest  grandson  had  appeared  in  a  pageant  called  &quot;Goodbye  to  Last  Year's  Toys,&quot;  and  that  our  granddaughter  had  recited  something  called  &quot;What  Do  Our  Hearts  Treasure?&quot;  There  was  very  little  traffic  in  the  canal.  Once  in  a  while  apint  whiskey  bottle  would  float  slowly  by  on  the  out-  going  tide.  A  small  powerboat  named  Digitalis  made  an  occasional  sortie,  and  two  boys  in  a  homemade  bateau  paddled  through.  Sometimes,  toward  the  end  of  the  day,a  little  greenheron  showed  up  and  fished  from  a  mangrove  that  overhung  the  water.  The  scene  was  idyllic.  Christmas  was  in  the  air,  yet  the  air  seemed  too  soft  to  sustain  it.  In  the  vast  shopping  centers  that  ringed  the  city,  [REDACTED],  in  jumbo  size,  dominat-  ed  the  parking  lots.  In  the  commanding  noonday  sun,  with  the  temperature  in  the  seventies,  he  seemed  vastly  over-  dressed  in  his  red  suit  with  the  ermine  trimming-a  saint  who  perspired  under  the  arms.  Through  the  arcades  in  front  of  the  shops  sauntered  an  endless  procession  of  Senior  Citizens,  with  their  sad  faces,  their  painful  joints,  their  last-minute  errands.  I  went  on  an  errand  of  my  own.  I  visited  a  nursery  and  bought  a  poin-  settia  plant,  hoping  to  introduce  a  spot  of  the  correct  color  into  our  house.  In  the  [REDACTED],  this  errand  would  have  en-  joyed  a  certain  stature,  but  in  [REDACTED]  the  thing  seemed  faintly  ridiculous.  Driving  away  from  the  nurs-  ery  with  my  prize,  I  passed  a  great  forest  of  poinsettias  blooming  naturally  in  some-  body's  front  yard.  It  seemed  to  take  the  point  out  of  my  purchase.  A  lot  of  things  are  red  in  [REDACTED]-the  powder-  puff  bush,  the  red  hibiscus,  the  red  bougainvillaea,  the  cannas-all  these  blooms  make  a  mon-  key  out  ofa  husband  carrying  home  a  small  red  potted  plant.  We  talked  over  the  matter  of  the  tree  and  decided  that  the  traditional  Christmas  tree  would  be  silly  under  these  circumstances.  We  would  get,  we  said,  a  tropical  thing  of  some  sort,  that  would  look  good  all  winter  in  a  corner  of  our  stylish  living  room,  next  to  the  glass  wall  through  which  we  watched  the  tropicalsunsets.  The  nursery  came  up  with  something  very  fine  indeed-a  cluster  of  three  little  palm-like  trees  called  Dracaena  marginate  (the  man  called  it  imaginata,  which  I  liked  better).  The  pot  was  handsome,  and  the  trees  looked  like  a  miniature  ver-  sion  of  the  classic  oasis  scene  in  the  " b"desert.  When  the  plant  was  delivered,  a  small  chamele  on  arrived  with  it  an  d  soon  made  the  l  iving  room  his  own.  He  lik  ed  the  cur  tain  on  the  south  wall,  and  w  ould  poke  his  evil  little  head  out  and  join  us  for  cocktails  I  named  him  Bepp  o.  Every  on  e  admired  our  plant.  The  crying  spells  ceas  ed,  b  ut  it  was  plain  that  there  was  st  ill  something  the  matter;  it  wasn't  Vi  etnam,  it  wasn't  the  reverse-cycle  sy  stem,  it  was  some  k  ind  of  unreality  that  pervaded  our  lives.  ON  the  tw  enty-second,  a  large  pack-  age  arrived  from  the  [REDACTED]  and  I  noted  the  familiar  handwriting  of  our  daughter-in-law.  I  carried  the  package  into  the  living  room,  dumped  it  on  the  sofa,  slit  its  throat  with  my  jackknife,  and  left  it  for  my  wife  to  dissect.  (She  is  methodical  at  Christmas  and  keeps  a  record  of  gifts  and  donors.)  Soon  I  heard  a  sharp  cry.  &quot;Come  here!  Look!&quot;  I  found  her  standing  on  the  hearth  with  her  nose  buried  in  a  branch  from  a  balsam  fir,  which  she  had  hung  over  the  fireplace.  With  it  hung  a  har-  ness  strap  of  sleigh  bells.  The  branch  had  unquestionably  been  whacked  from  a  tree  in  the  woods  behind  our  son's  house  in  [REDACTED]  and  had  made  the  long  trip  [REDACTED].  It  wore  the  look  and  carried  the  smell  of  authenticity.  &quot;There!&quot;  said  my  wife,  as  though  she  had  just  delivered  a  baby.  The  package  also  disgorged  a  tiny  red  drum  and  two  tiny  drumsticks,  made  from  bright  red  wrapping  paper  by  a  grandchild.  And  the  package  con-  tainedschool  photographs,  which  we  eagerly  studied.  Our  youngest  grandson  had  done  something  odd  with  his  mouth,  in  a  manly  attempt  to  defeat  the  photographer,  and  looked  just  like  Jimmy  Hoffa.  &quot;How  marvellous!&quot;  said  my  wife.  We  placed  the  toy  drum  at  the  base  of  Dracaena  marginata.  (What  do  our  hearts  treasure?  )  Not  to  be  outdone,  I  constructed  one  small  cornucopia  out  of  the  same  bright  red  paper  and  hung  it  on  a  spiky  frond  of  the  tree.  Ifash-  jioned  a  five-pointed  silver  star,  strung  it  on  a  length  of  monofilament  from  my  tackle  box,  and  suspended  it  from  the  ceiling  above  the  tree  with  a  piece  of  Magic  Tape.  The  star  revolved  slowly,  catching  the  light  at  intervals-  a  holy  mobile.  The  tree  now  seemed  Biblical  and  just  right.  We  were  in  business  at  last.  I  gazed  out  across  the  Pass  to  where  the  soft  and  feathery  Australian  pines  were  outlined  against  the  bright  sky.  They  had  hardened  up  momentarily  for  this  hour  of  splendor.  They  were  spruce!  They  were  birch!  They  were  fir!  Everywhere,  every-  where,  Christmas  tonight! "