 b"FOR  many  years  now  -much  Flonger  than  one  of  my  idols,  Hen-  ry  David  Thoreau,  lived  in  com-  parative  seclusion  beside  Walden  Pond-I  have  lived  alone  on  thetop  floor  ofthe  venerable  Hotel  Mansfield,  on  West  Forty-fourth  Street  near  Fifth  Avenue,  and  worked  at  my  writing  alone  in  an  office  building  fifty  yards  from  the  hotel.  I  have  had  a  life  full  of  much  conviviality,  solitude,  frustration,  and  contentment.  And  lately  I  have  had  a  pond  for  a  neighbor.  It  is  visible  both  from  my  living  quarters  and  from  my  working  quarters.  It  is  on  the  roof  of  the  Princeton  Club,  a  relatively  new  and  not  very  tall  structure  on  Forty-  third  Street.  According  to  my  calculations,  my  pond  is,  when  at  its  highest  level,  after  a  good  rainfall,  some  twenty-five  feet  from  one  side  to  the  other,  is  circular  in  shape  (although  somewhat  irregular  along  its  shoreline,  which  lends  it  both  character  and  beauty),  and  covers  an  area  of  approximately  four  hun-  dred  and  fifty  square  feet.  Unless  I  am  mistaken-and  I  am  a  studious  ob-  server  of  all  that  can  be  seen  from  the  windows  of  my  living  quarters  and  my  working  quarters-Princeton  Pond,  as  I  have  named  it,  came  into  being  only  this  past  autumn,  for  sure-  ly  I  would  have  been  aware  of  it  dur-  ing  previous  rainy  seasons  and  would,  indeed,  have  learned  whether  or  not  it  freezes  over  in  wintertime,  since,  at  my  working  quarters,  I  spend  agreat  amount  of  time  gazing  out  of  the  two  windows  that  face  east,  below  which  Princeton  Pond  may  be  seen,  and  out  of  the  one  window  that  faces  north,  toward  Rockefeller  Center.  In  the  latter  direc-  tion,  no  ponds  are  to  be  discerned  on  any  of  the  roofs  below  me,  although  I  know  not  if  there  be  a  pond  atop  the  Radio  Corporation  of  [REDACTED]  build-  ing,  which  is  many  stories  higher  than  my  places  of  abode  and  labor.  In  fact,  I  am  aware  of  no  ponds  except  Prince-  ton  Pond  any  nearer  than  those  in  Cen-  tral  Park,  far  to  the  north  beyond  Fifty-  ninth  Street,  and  for  that  reason,  among  others,  I  hope  to  interest  my  readers  in  midtown  [REDACTED]  in  Princeton  Pond  and  in  the  varied  observations  I  have  made  of  it  byday  and  by  night.  HE  roof  of  the  Princeton  Club  is  flat  and  seems  to  be  composed  of  a  gravelly  substance  of  some  sort,  which,  except  for  the  space  covered  by  Princeton  Pond,  appears  to  absorb  the  rainfall  from  the  heavens  and  the  dew  that  comes  by  night.  Princeton  Pond  is  not  constant,  like  most  other  ponds,but  disappears,  even  after  the  heaviest  of  rainstorms,  in  a  few  days'  time,  either  from  evaporation  by  the  sun's  rays  or  by  absorption  by  the  roof  itself,  to  reappear  only  when  rain  has  come  again.  On  a  day  after  a  good  rain-  fall,  Princeton  Pond  has  many  of  the  at-  tractions  of  other  ponds;  that  is  to  say,  it  ripples  prettily  when  there  is  a  breeze,  reflects  the  shapes  of  the  taller  buildings  around  it  and  the  airplanes  that  fly  above  it,  shimmers  handsomely  when  the  sun  is  at  its  zenith,  and  darkens  un-  der  passing  clouds.  It  is  not  a  deep  pond  at  any  time,  but  who  am  I--  and  who  is  anybody?-to  say  that  a  pond,  especially  a  city  pond  many  feet  above  the  surface  of  the  ground,  should  be  deep?  Among  the  scurrying  crowds  of  quietly  desperate  men,  women,  and  children  whom  I  observe  from  my  win-  dows  both  by  day  and  by  night  there  would  be  those,  no  doubt,  who,  if  Iin-  vited  them  to  come  to  my  home  or  to  my  office  for  a  look  at  Princeton  Pond,  might  be  inclined  to  call  it  a  puddle  rather  than  a  pond,  but  such  persons  I  purposefully  avoid.  And,  in  fact-since  one  never  can  be  entirely  sure  of  the  sensitivity  even  of  one's  closest  friends  and  acquaintances-I  have  invited  no  living  person  to  share  with  me  Princeton  Pond's  delights  from  my  windows.  No  human  beings  except  maids  and  bell-  boys,  plumbers  and  electricians,  and  an  occasional  physician,  ever  visit  my  liv-  waTcH  yi  youn  HAT  ing  quarters,  for  the  reason  that  I  do  not  consider  those  rooms  large  enough  for  entertaining  in.  When  Ifind  it  necessary  or  pleasurable  to  entertain  friends,  ei-  ther  old  or  new,  I  make  use  of  one  of  my  two  clubs,  which,  like  my  home  and  my  office,  are  situated  close  by  Forty-  fourth  Street,  but  from  the  windows  of  which  Princeton  Pond  is  not  visible.  As  for  the  denizens  of  the  firm  for  which  I  labor,  I  mostly  discourage  visits  to  my  private  workshop,  and,  in  fact,  fre-  quently  make  use  of  a  cardboard  sign,  purloined  from  my  hotel,  which,  hung  on  the  knob  outside  my  door,  says  bleak-  ly,  &quot;Do  NOT  DISTURB.&quot;  Knowing  that  Princeton  Pond  was  shallow,  but  not  How  shallow,  I  man-  aged  to  visit  the  club's  roof  one  day,  wearing  overshoes,  after  one  of  the  heaviest  rainfalls  of  the  past  autumn,  and,  with  an  ordinary  wooden  ruler  that  is  part  of  my  office  equipment,  was  able  to  determine  that  in  the  pond's  center  it  was  then  precisely  three  and  one-fifth  inches  deep.  I  was  also  able  to  observe  that  no  wildlife  or  plant  life  visible  to  the  naked  eye  existed  in  or  around  the  pond.  The  pond  comes  and  goes  too  rapidly  forthat  sort  of  thing.  On  another  morning,however,  I  caught  sight  of  two  pigeons  alighting  on  the  dry  part  of  the  roof.  With  every  indication  of  confidence,  they  drank  from  the  pond  and  afterward  bathed  in  it.  This  event  caused  me  to  arise  very  early  on  several  subsequent  mornings  in  the  hope  of  sighting  a  wild  duck,  or  a  flock  of  them,  making  similar  useof  Princeton  Pond,  but  sofar  the  two  pigeons  have  been  the  only  living  things  I've  seen  on  that  rooftop.  I  am  led  to     " b"believe  by  simple  logic  that  they  are  the  same  two  pigeons,  but  I  am  baffled  by  the  fact  that  other  pigeons  do  not  make  the  same  use  of  Princeton  Pond.  Pigeons,  I  have  often  observed  in  my  strolls  along  Forty-fourth  Street,  are  dedicated  imitators;  when  one  flies  up  from  the  street,  all  the  others  follow,  and  when  one  descends,  so  do  all.  It  therefore  mystifies  me  why  other  pi-  geons  do  not  follow  the  example  of  the  two  of  which  I  speak.  Where  else,  in  my  part  of  [REDACTED],  can  pigeons  get  a  drink  of  water  and  a  bath?  I  can  only  presume  that  the  other  pigeons  in  this  area  fly  laboriously  all  the  way  up  to  Central  Park  for  these  necessities.  But  I  shall  not  dwell  long  on  this  sub-  ject,  for  I  heartily  agree  with  the  late  James  Thurber,  who  was  convinced  that  pigeons  are  dull  birds.  When,  many  years  ago,  Gertrude  Stein  wrote  something  about  &quot;Pigeons  on  the  grass,  alas,&quot;  Mr.  Thurber  publicly  contended  that  there  was  nothing  alas  or  anything  else  about  pigeons,  that  they  aroused  no  emotion  whatever,  of  any  sort,  at  least  not  in  him,  and  that  if  one  day  a  pigeon  should  enter  his  room  at  another  Forty-fourth  Street  hotel-the  Algonquin-with  a  sword  under  its  wing,  and  announce  that  the  birds  were  now  in  charge,  he  would  simply  laugh  at  the  pigeon,  whereas  he  would  believe  and  accept  the  same  statement  if  it  were  made  by  any  other  bird,  even  a  common  English  sparrow.  I  would  be  most  happy  and  diverted  to  see  some  sparrows,  or  any  other  birds  besides  this  same  pair  of  pigeons,  fluttering  and  hopping  around  Princeton  Pond,  but  so  far,  I  regret  to  say,  I  have  seen  none.  So  much  for  pigeons  and  their  relation  to  Princeton  Pond.  EANWHILE,  I  have  made  fur-  ther  observations  of  Princeton  Pond,  and  not  only  from  the  windows  of  my  dwelling  and  my  office  but  also  from  the  windows  of  the  Morgan  Guaranty  Trust  Company,  which  gave  me  a  sight  of  it  from  a  much  greater  altitude  than  had  hitherto  been  afforded  me;  and  by  making  the  same  request  of  the  managements  of  two  other  tall  build-  ings  overlooking  Forty-third  Street-  that  I  wished  to  look  at  a  pond  of  water  on  the  Princeton  Club's  roof-I  have  seen  it  from  the  south  and  from  the  east  as  well  as  from  the  north  and  west;  and,  with  the  kind  permission  of  the  manage-  ment  of  a  building  on  the  far  side  of  Fifth  Avenue,  I  have  observed  it  from  a  considerable  distance,  both  with  the  naked  eye  and  with  my  opera  glasses,  the  latter  a  relic  of  my  past.  Thus,  I  4  JANUARY  1,  19  66  have  sighted  Princeton  Pond  from  every  possible  angle,  at  all  times  of  the  day  and  night  and  in  all  weathers,  ex-  ceptthat  I  have  yet  to  observe  what  happens  to  it  when  snow  begins  to  fall  in  the  wintertime,  and  when  small  bodies  of  water  freeze  into  solid  ice.  I  am  looking  forward  especially  to  the  latter  circumstance,  although  I  am  well  aware  that  it  will  require  certain  weath-  er  conditions-i.e.,  there  must  be  a  good  rainfall  followed  quickly  by  freez-  ing  temperatures  while  the  water  still  lies  in  Princeton  Pond.  It  happens  that  I  have  several  friends  who  belong  to  the  Princeton  Club,  and  that,  had  I  chosen  to  go  to  college  in  my  youth,  it  is  to  Princeton  that  I  would  have  gone.  My  friends,  while  anxious  to  accommodate  me  in  my  desire  to  become  a  member  of  the  Princeton  Club  in  order  to  have  free  and  easy  and  frequent  access  to  its  roof,  have  told  me  that  it  is  extremely  doubt-  ful  whether  its  membership  committee  would  accept  me  simply  on  the  ground  that  it  was  once  my  intention  to  attend  that  university  before  I  dropped  out  of  high  school.  One  of  these  friends,  how-  ever-a  medical  man  who  enjoys  ac-  complishing  difficult  tasks-is  pulling  strings  to  obtain  for  me  some  sort  of  honorary  degree  from  his  alma  mater,  it  being  his  opinion  that  if  I  possessed  such  a  degree  I  could  become  a  member  in  good  standing  in  short  order.  Whether  this  ever  happens  orno,  I  have  plans  for  improving  Princeton  Pond  by  persuading  my  friends  in  the  club  to  persuade  the  appropriate  com-  mittee  to  place  some  potted  plants  and  even  some  small  potted  trees  around  the  shoreline  of  the  pond  next  spring,  to  make  it  look  more  like  a  pond  and  less  like  a  puddle,  and  perhaps  cause  it  to  attract  more  birds.  That  roof  could  be  made  into  a  most  attractive  place  should  the  members  of  the  club  choose  to  follow  some,  if  not  all,  of  my  sug-  gestions.  It  is  enclosed  by  a  wall  about  two  and  a  half  feet  high,  and  with  some  tastefully  selected  wicker  or  bamboo  chairs  and  settees-or  with  furniture  of  wrought  iron-and  with  the  occa-  sional  appearances  of  Princeton  Pond  and  the  permanent  vegetation  already  mentioned,  many  members,  I  feel  con-  fident,  would  find  much  joy  in  sitting  up  there  in  the  sun,  or  under  the  shade  of  the  sort  of  umbrellas  used  on  sea  beaches,  and  observing  and  listening  to  the  sights  and  sounds  in  the  street  down  below  without  actually  being  involved  in  them.  Such  projects,  I  realize,  take  much  time  and  much  perseverance,  but  the  doctor  and  my  other  friends  in  the  " b"club  are  talking  the  matter  over  with  other  members,  at  the  same  time  that  the  doctor  pursues  his  goal  of  getting  me  the  honorary  degree.  I  look  for-  ward  to  the  spring  and  summer  that  will  follow  the  approaching  winter,  and,  during  the  coming  winter  itself,  I  envisage  the  day  when  Princeton  Pond  freezes  over  so  that,  with  ice  skates,  rather  than  overshoes,  and  with  the  cooperation  of  my  friends  and  a  warm  scarf  around  my  neck,  I  can  enjoy  a  few  whirls  and  curlicues-  dancing,  as  it  were,  on  the  surface  of  the  body  of  water  that  has  given  me  so  much  pleasure  these  past  weeks.  HAVE  seen  Princeton  Pond,  asI  have  said,  from  all  angles  and  at  all  hours  of  the  night  and  the  day,  but  I  believe  my  most  cherished  memory  of  it  so  far  is  my  observation  of  it  during  the  great  electrical  failure  of  this  past  November.  I  was,  luckily,  snug  in  my  living  quarters  when  that  phenomenon  occurred,  secure  in  my  possessionof  doz-  ens  of  partially  used  paper  book  matches,  and  with  Metrecal  and  Saltines  in  my  icebox,  and  with  the  telephone  in  good  working  order;  and,  as  the  power  failure  continued,  I  was  able  to  see  Princeton  Pond  by  starlight,  and  then,  a  little  later,  by  the  light  of  the  almost  full  moon.  Aware  as  I  am  of  the  dis-  comforts  and  terrors  suffered  by  many  of  my  fellow-townsmen  on  that  night,  I  must  confess  that  as  far  as  I  was  my-  self  concerned  the  power  failure  was  a  success.  Enough  light  came  into  my  living  quarters,  which  have  a  skylight  as  well  as  ordinary  windows,  to  make  the  rooms  at  no  time  totally  dark,  and  the  telephone  enabled  me  to  ascertain  from  the  Mansfield's  management  that  al-  though  a  number  of  residents  had  cho-  sen  to  sleep  in  the  lobby  rather  than  climb  the  stairs,  the  entire  populace  of  the  place  was  taking  the  power  failure  in  good  stride,  and  I  was  also  able  to  com-  municate  with  a  number  of  friends.  At  one  moment,  there  came  a  gentle  knock  on  my  door,  and  when  I  opened  it  a  voice,  a  feminine  voice,  said,  &quot;I'm  one  of  your  next-door  neighbors,  and  I  just  wondered  if  you  happen  to  have  any-  thing  to  eat  in  your  apartment-any-  thing  at  all.&quot;  I  pressed  crackers  and  a  cou-  ple  of  my  nourishing  cans  of  liquid  meals  upon  her  and  she  returned  to  her  own  place,  seemingly  much  cheered  by  this  human  contact,  as,  indeed,  was  I.  And  down  below  me  there  was  Princeton  Pond,  rippled  by  a  slight  breeze  and  dem-  onstrating  how,  when  the  glare  of  the  city  was  removed,  it  was  capable  of  play-  ing  fondly  with  the  reflections  of  the  firmament.  "