 b"ONCE  upon  a  time  there  was  a  poor  orphan  girl  who  hadno  motherand  no  father  and  was  raised  by  her  grandmother  on  one  of  the  windswept  islands  of  the  Outer  Hebrides.  When  she  began  running  after  the  boys,  her  grandmother  shipped  her  off  to  a  cousin  in  Glasgow.  At  first  the  girl  was  well  behaved  and  lent  a  hand  wherever  it  was  needed,  and  the  cousin  thought  the  grandmother  just  didn't  understand  the  younger  genera-  tion.  But  then  she  started  staying  out  late  at  night  and  keeping  bad  company,  and  the  cousin  sawwhat  the  grand-  mother  was  up  against.  So  she  had  a  serious  talk  with  the  girl,  and  the  girl  made  all  sorts  of  promises,  which  she  didn't  keep,  and  the  cousin  didn't  want  to  be  blamed  if  the  girl  got  in  the  family  way,  so  she  tookher  to  an  employment  agency  that  specialized  in  sending  serv-  ants  to  [REDACTED].  &quot;Mercy!&quot;  exclaimed  the  head  of  the  most  dependable  domestic  employment  agency  in  New  York  City,  when  she  looked  at  the  girl's  folder.  &quot;An  un-  spoiled  country  girl,  willing  and  strong,  and  with  a  heart  of  gold!&quot;  'The  folder  was  shown  to  a  Class  A  client  with  a  Fifth  [REDACTED]  address,  who  snapped  her  up.  The  immigration  papers  were  filled  out,  and  the  deposit  paid,  and  the  girl  found  herself  on  a  boat  going  to  Ameri-  ca.  What  she  was  expecting  was,  natu-  rally,  what  she  had  seen  in  the  flicks.  What  she  got  was  a  six-by-eleven  bed-  room  looking  out  on  the  back  of  another  building,  with  a  closet  six  inches  deep,  and  the  customary  dwarf's  bathtub  that  you  find  in  servants'  bathrooms  in  old  apartment  buildings.  On  the  other  hand,  the  girl  had  never  before  had  a  bed  all  to  herself  and  a  toilet  that  wasn't  either  outdoors  or  on  the  land-  ing  and  shared  by  several  large  fami-  lies.  She  wrote  home  to  her  grand-  mother  that  she  was  in  luck.  She  got  on  all  right  with  the  cook,  and  there  was  no  heavy  work,  because  a  cleaning  woman  came  in  twice  a  week  and  a  laundress  two  days,  and  the  windows  were  done  by  a  window-  washing  company,  and  all  the  girl  had  to  do  was  remember  what  she  was  told.  Unfortunately,  this  was  more  than  she  could  manage.  During  dinner  parties  she  couldn't  decide  whether  you  serve  from  the  right  and  clear  from  the  left  orserve  from  the  left  and  clear  from  the  right,  so  she  did  both,  and  when  she  made  the  beds  the  top  sheet  was  not  securely  fastened,  and  she  used  the  master's  washcloth  to  clean  the  tub,  and  what  with  one  thing  and  an-  other,  including  the  state  of  her  room,  she  received  notice  after  two  weeks  and  returned  to  the  employment  office  look-  ing  only  a  little  less  fresh  than  when  she  arrived  from  [REDACTED].  The  head  of  the  agency  said,  &quot;This  time  suppose  we  don't  aim  quite  so  high,.  You  don't  mind  children?&quot;  The  girl  said  no,she  liked  children-which  was  true,  she  did-and  off  she  went  to  an  address  on  Park  [REDACTED].  The  interview  was  successful,  and  she  found  herself  in  the  exact  same  bedroom  with  the  shallow  closet  and  the  little  bath,  only  the  room  looked  out  on  a  blank  wall  instead  of  the  back  of  another  building.  The  work  was  harder  than  before  and  the  hours  much  longer,  but  at  least  there  were  no  dinner  parties.  She  was  supposed  to  have  breakfast  ready  by  quarter  of  eight,  which  was  impossible,  but  she  tried.  Then  she  walked  the  children  to  the  corner  where  they  took  the  school  bus  and  made  the  children's  beds  and  picked  up  the  toys  and  ran  the  vacuum  and  stuffed  the  clothes  into  the  washing  machine  and  the  dryer,  and  so  on.  In  the  afternoon,  she  walked  the  dog  and  went  to  the  supermarket,  where  she  soon  knew  everybody,  and  Joe,  who  weighed  the  vegetables  and  was  old  enough  to  be  her  father,  said,  &quot;Here  comes  my  sweetheart,&quot;  and  Arthur,  the  butcher,  said,  'Tell  me-where'd  you  get  those  beautyful  eyes?&quot;  Then  she  took  the  children  to  the  Park,  and  got  their  supper,  and  so  on.  She  was  supposed  to  baby-  sit  when  the  master  and  mis-  tress  went  out,  but  they  didn't  very  often  go  out.  Once  in  a  blue  moon,  to  an  early  movie,  was  about  the  extent  of  it.  If  she  had  been  in  Glasgow,  she  would  have  known  what  to  do  with  her  evenings.  Here  she  didn't  know  anybody,  so  she  went  to  bed.     T  NE  day  when  she  was  with  the  children  in  the  Park,  she  met  a  girl  named  Cathleen,  who  asked  her  to  go  with  her  to  a  dance  hall  on  Eighty-sixth  Street.  This  turned  out  to  be  very  different  from  the  Outer  Heb-  rides,  and  just  like  the  flicks.  The  next  morning,  her  head  was  full  of  impres-  sions,  mostly  of  a  sad  young  man  who  said  he  was  in  love  with  her  and  almost  persuaded  her  to  go  home  with  him,  and  she  was  simultaneously  pleased  with  herself  for  resisting  temptation  and  sorry  she  hadn't  done  it.  She  burned  the  bacon,  and  the  master  wrinkled  his  nose  over  the  coffee,  but  by  that  time  she  was  stretched  out  on  her  bed  getting  forty  winks.  As  the  day  wore  on,  a  number  of  things  went  wrong:  the  dishwasher  foamed  all  over  the  kitchen  floor,  because  she  had  used  the  washing  machine  detergent,  and  she  broke  a  cup,  and  put  a  pair  of  red  corduroy  overalls  in  the  washing  ma-  chine  in  the  same  load  with  some  pil-  lowcases  and  the  mistress's  blouses  and  the  children's  underwear.  They  all  were  stained  a  permanent  pink,  but  the  mistress  forgave  her,  because  anyone  can  make  a  mistake  now  and  then,  and  the  cup  was  too  small  a  matter  to  make  a  thing  of.  During  dinner,  the  tele-  phone  rang,  and  it  was  for  her.  Though  she  had  intended  to  fall  into  bed  as  soon  as  she  finished  the  dinner  dishes,  she  got  dressed  instead  and  met  Cathleen  at  a  bar  on  Second  [REDACTED],  where  they  fed  dimes  into  a  jukebox,  and  another  boy  wanted  her  to  go  home  withhim,  and  she  was  so  tired  she  al-  most  did,  but  instead  she  left  before  Cathleen  was  ready,  and  was  home  in  bed  by  two  o'clock.  She  overslept,  and  there  wasn't  even  time  to  comb  her  hair.  She  managed  to  stay  out  of  sight  until  the  master  had  left  for  his  office,  but  then  she  forgot,  so  the  mistress  did  catch  her  looking  like  I  don't  know  what.  A  queer  expression  passed  over  her  face,  but  she  didn't  say  anything,  and  the  girl  realized  that  the  mis-  tress  wasn't  ever  going  to  say  anything  \xc2\xbbo  matter  what  hap-  pened.  The  telephone  always  seemed  to  ring  during  dinner,  and  though  there  was  an  extension  in  the  kitchen,  the  girl  didn't  think  it  was  polite  for  her  to  answer  it,  so  she  let  the  master  get  up  from  the  table  and  go  to  the  phone  in  the  bedroom.  Sometimes,  after  the  third  or  fourth  call,  she  thought  she  could  detect  a  note  of  irri-  tation  in  his  voice  when  he  said,  &quot;It's  for  you.&quot;  But  she  had  the  tray  ready  with  the  whiskey  and  the  ice  cubes  and  the  jigger  and  all  when  he  got  home  at  night,  and  that  he  liked.  As  for  the  chil-  dren,  at  first  they  didn't  want  to  have  anything  to  do  with  her.  The  mistress  explained  that  they  were  veryattached  to  the  previous  mother's  helper-a  Ger-  man  girl  who  had  left  to  get  married-  and  she  was  not  to  mind.  She  didn't.  That  is,  she  didn't  mind  anything  but  the  fact  they  were  being  brought  up  as  heathens.  So  she  told  them  about  how  the  Jews  crucified  Our  Lord,  and  about     " b"the  Blessed  Saints,  and  Mary  and  Jo-  seph,  and  promised  to  take  them  to  Mass,  and  in  no  timethey  were  cating  out  of  her  hand.  She  found  out  there  were  more  bars  and  dance  halls  than  you  couldshake  a  stick  at,  and  she  was  in  one  or  an-  other  of  them  five  nights  out  of  seven.  The  other  two  nights  she  went  straight  to  bed  as  soon  as  she  had  pressed  the  button  on  the  dishwashing  machine.  In  a  hamburger  bar  she  met  a  boy  with  blond  wavy  hair  who  was  an  orphan  like  her,  only  he  had  been  raised  in  a  Home,.  Though  he  didn't  say  he  was  in  love  with  her,  still  and  all  she  liked  him.  He  was  interesting  to  talk  to,  be-  cause  so  many  things  seemed  to  have  happened  to  him,  and  he  didn't  ask  her  to  go  home  with  him,  so  she  had  no  chance  to  refuse.  She  didn't  really  expect  to  hear  from  him  again,  but  he  called  the  very  next  night.  She  met  him  in  front  ofthe  movie  house,  and  during  the  movie  she  could  feel  his  arm  rest-  ing  lightly  on  the  back  of  her  seat,  and  once  or  twice  he  gave  her  shoulder  a  squeeze,  but  she  didn't  have  to  move  her  leg  away  or  say  &quot;Don't.&quot;  After-  ward,  they  went  to  a  bar  on  First  [REDACTED].  She  told  him  all  about  her  cousin's  family  in  Glasgow,  and  about  coming  over  on  the  boat,  and  the  things  she  liked  about  Cathleen  and  the  things  she  didn't  like,  and  about  the  way  it  used  to  be  at  home  before  her  mother  died  and  she  went  to  live  with  her  grandmother.  Finally  she  was  all  talked  out,  and  she  just  sat  there,  feeling  happy  and  peaceful.  He  said,  &quot;Another  beer?&quot;  and  she  said  no,  and  he  had  one  last  one,  which  he  didn't  spend  any  time  over,  and  then  he  put  his  hand  on  the  back  of  her  neck  and  said,  &quot;Come  on,  baby,  I'll  walk  you  to  your  domicile.&quot;  And  that  was  what  she  thought  they  were  doing,  only  when  she  looked  up  they  were  standing  in  front  of  the  building  where  Ae  lived.  He  said,  &quot;I  just  want  to  get  a  coat,  I'm  chilly,&quot;  and  she  said,  &quot;I'll  wait  here,&quot;  and  he  said,  &quot;At  this  time  of  night,  in  this  neighborhood?  Are  you  out  of  your  mind?&quot;  So  she  followed  him  up  six  flights  of  stairs,  and  the  first  thing  she  knew  she  was  having  her  clothes  torn  off  her,  and  the  rest  she  didn't  remem-  ber.  It  was  daylight  when  she  got  home,  and  she  had  to  wake  the  night  elevator  man,  who  was  married  and cranky,  and  he  made  a  fresh  remark,  which  she  ignored.  HE  went  to  church  but  she  was  afraid  to  go  to  confession,  for  fear  the  priest  would  find  out  she  was  an  orphan  and  puther  in  a  Home.  If  she  had  only  saved  her  money,  she  could  have  got  on  the  boat  and  gone  back  to  [REDACTED],  but  she  had  bought  clothes  instead.  Lots  of  clothes.  The  children's  closets  were  full  of  them.  She  could  hear  her  grandmother's  voice  saving,  You're  going  to  the  dogs,&quot;  and  it  was  true,  she  was.  She  also  had  a  stomach  ache,  and  it  didn't  go  away.  For  three  days  she  went  around  doubled  up  with  the  pain,  and  then  the  mistress  noticed  it  and  made  her  go  to  a  doctor.  They  paid  her  wages  while  she  was  in  the  hospital  having  her  appendix  out,  and  for  two  weeks  afterward,  but  they  didn't  want  her  to  come  back,  because  they  had  this  colored  woman,  so  she  went  to  see  the  lady  at  the  employment  agency  who  had  been  so  niceto  her,  only  this  time  she  was  busy  and  some-  body  else  gave  her  an  address  on  Lex-  ington  [REDACTED],  and  on  the  way  there  she  passed  a  bar-and-grill  she  liked  the  looks  of.  It  was  called  Home  on  the  Range,  and  it  was  pitch  dark  even  in  the  daytime.  Maybe  I  ought  to  start  a  New  Life,  the  girl  thought,  and  it  turned  out  they  did  need  a  waitress,  so  that  was  that.  Except  that  she  wasn't  forgotten.  The  children  remembered  her.  Of  all  the  maids,  they  liked  her  the  best,  and  never  forgot  what  she  told  them.  And  one  night  about  a  year  after  she  left,  the  master  was  awakened  out  of  a  sound  sleep  by  the  ringing  of  the  telephone,  and  a  sad-voiced  young  man  asked  to  speak  to  her.  &quot;No,  you  can't  speak  to  her!&quot;  the  master  said  indignantly.  &quot;Do  you  realize  what  time  it  is?&quot;  The  sad  voice  seemed  sur-  prised  to  learn  that  it  was  the  middle  of  the  night,  and  unable  to  understand  why  anybody  should  mind  being  called  at  that  hour,  and  unwilling  to  believe  that  the  girl  wasn't  there.  NCE  upon  a  time,  in  the  west  O  of  England,  there  was  an  in-  dustrious  tailor  who  was  always  sitting  cross-legged,  plying  his  needle,  when  the  sun  came  up  over  the  hill,  and  all  day  long  he  drove  himself,  as  if  he  were  beating  a  donkey  with  a  stick.  &quot;I  am  almost  through  cutting  out  this  velvet  coat,&quot;  he  would  tell  him-  self,  &quot;and  when  I  am  through  cutting  the  velvet,  I  will  cut  the  yellow  satin  lining.  And  then  there  is  the  buckram,  and  the  collar  and  cuffs.  The  cuffs  are  " b"to  be  thirteen  inches  wide,  ta-  pering  to  ten  and  a  half-His  Lordship  was  very  particular  about  that  detail-and  faced  with  satin.  The  basting  should  take  me  into  the  afternoon,  and  if  all  goes  well,  and  I  don't  see  why  it  shouldn't,  I  ought  to  be  able  to  do  all  twen-  ty-seven  buttonholes  before  the  light  gives  out.&quot;  When  snow  lay  deep  on  the  groundand  the  sheep  stayed  in  their  pens,  the  shepherd  came  down  to  the  tavern  and  in  the  conviviality  he  found  there  made  up  for  the  months  of  solitude  on  the  moors.  During  the  early  partofthe  summer,  when  it  was  not  yet  time  for  anybody  to  be  bringing  wheat,  barley,  and  rye  to  the  mill  to  be  ground  into  flour,  the  miller  got  out  his  hook  and  line  and  went  fishing.  In  one  way  or  another,  everyone  had  some  time  that  he  called  his  own.  On  the  first  of  May,  lads  and  lasses  went  into  the  wood  just  before  daybreak  and  came  back  wearing  garlands  of  flowers  and  with  their  arms  around  each  other.  From  his  window  the  tailor  saw  them  setting  up  the  [REDACTED],  but  he  did  not  lay  aside  his  needle  and  thread  and  go  join  in  the  dancing.  It  is  true  that  he  was  no  longer  young  and,  with  his  bald  head  and  his  bent  back  and  his  solemn  manner,  would  have  looked  odd  dancing  around  a  [REDACTED],  but  that  did  not  deter  the  miller's  wife,  who  weighed  seventeen  stone  and  was  as  light  on  her  feet  as  a  fairy  and  didn't  care  who  laughed  at  her  as  long  as  she  was  enjoying  herself.  When  the  industrious  tailor  came  to  the  end  of  all  the  work  that  he  could  ex-  pect  for  a  while  and  his  worktable  was  quite  bare,  he  looked  around  for  some  lily  that  needed  gilding.  Sorting  his  pins,  sharpening  his  scissors,  and  rearranging  his  patterns,  he  congratulated  himself  on  keeping  busy,  though  he  might  just  as  well  have  been  sitting  in  his  doorway  enjoying  the  sun,  for  his  scissors  didn't  need  sharpening,  and  his  patterns  were  not  in  disorder,  and  a  pin  is  a  pin,  no  matter  what  tray  you  put  it  in.  As  with  all  of  us,  the  tailor's  upbring-  ing  had  a  good  deal  to  do  with  the  way  he  behaved.  At  the  age  of  eight,  he  was  apprenticed  to  his  father,  who  was  a  master  tailor  and  notonly  knew  all  there  is  to  know  about  making  clothes  but  also  was  full  of  native  wisdom.  While  the  boy  was  learning  to  sew  a  straight  seam  and  how  to  cut  cloth  on the  diagonal  and  that  sort  of  thing,  the  father  would  from  time  to  time  raise  his  right  hand,  with  the  needle  and  thread  in  it,  and,  looking  at  the  boy  over  the  top  of  his  spectacles,  say,  &quot;A  stitch  in  time  saves  nine,&quot;  or  &quot;Waste  makes  want,&quot;  or  some  other  bit  of  advice,  which  the  boy  took  to  his  bosom  and  cherished.  And  he  had  never  forgotten  a  wonderful  story  his  father  told  about  an  ant  and  a  grasshopper.  Of  all  his  father's  sayings,  the  one  that  made  the  deepest  impression  on  himwas  &quot;Never  put  off  till  tomorrow  what  you  cando  today,&quot;  though  as  a  rule  the  industri-  ous  tailor  had  already  done  it  yesterday  andwas  hard  at  work  on  something  that  did  not  need  to  be  done  until  the  day  after.  WfHAT  is  true  of  the  day  after  to-  morrow  is  equally  true  of  the  day  after  that,  and  the  day  after  that,  and  the  day  after  that,  and  so  on,  and  in  time  a  very  curious  thing  happened.  There  was  the  past-there  is  always  the  past-  and  it  was  full  of  accomplishment,  of  things  done  well  before  they  needed  to  be  done,  and  the  tailor  regarded  it  with  satisfaction.  And  there  was  the  future,  when  things  would  have  to  be  done,  and  bills  would  have  to  be  made  out  and  re-  spectfully  submitted  and  paidor  not  paid,  as  the  case  might  be,  and  new  work  would  be  ordered,  and  so  on.  But  it  was  never  right  now.  The  present  had  ceased  to  exist.  When  the  industri-  ous  tailor  looked  out  of  the  window  and  saw  that  it  was  raining,  it  was  not  raining  today  but  on  a  day  in  the  middle  of  next  week,  or  the  week  after  that,  if  he  was  that  far  ahead  of  himself,  and  he  often  was,  You  would  have  thought  that  he  would  sooner  or  later  have  re-  alized  that  the  time  he  was  spending  so  freely  was  next  month's,  and  that  if  he  had  already  lived  through  the  days  of  this  month  before  it  was  well  begun  he  was  living  beyond  his  means.  But  what  is  &quot;already&quot;?  What  is  &quot;now&quot;?  The  words  had  lost  their  meaning.  And  this  was  not  as  serious  as  it  sounds,  because  words  are,  after  all,  only  words.  &quot;I  could  kill  you  for  doing  that,&quot;  a  man  says  to  his  wife  and  then  they  both  cheerfully  sit  down  to  dinner.  And  many  people  live  entirely  in  the  past,  without  even  noticing  it.  One  day  the  tailor  pushed  his  glasses  up  on  his  fore-  head  and  saw  that  he  was  in  the  middle  of  a  lonely  wood.  He  rubbed  his  poor  tiredeyes,  but  the  trees  didn't  go  away.  He  looked  all  around.  No  scissors  and  pins,  no  bolts  of  material,  no  patterns,  no  worktable,  no  shop.  Only  the  needle  and  threadhe  had  been  sewing  with.  He  listened  anxiously.  He  had  never  been  in  a  wood  before.  &quot;Wife?&quot;  he  called  out,  but  there  was  no  answer.  He  knew  that  it  was  late  afternoon,  " b"and  that  he  ought  to  get  out  of  the  wood  before  dark,  so  he  stuck  the  needle  in  his  vest  and  started  walking  along  a  path  that  constantly  threatened  to  disappear,  the  way  paths  do  in  a  wood.  Sometimes  the  path  divided,  and  he  had  to  choose  between  the  right  and  the  left  fork,  without  knowing  which  was  the  way  that  led  out  of  the  wood.  The  light  be-  gan  to  fail  even  sooner  thanhe  had  expected.  When  it  was  still  daytime  in  the  sky  overhead,  it  was  already  so  dark  where  he  was  that  he  could  find  the  path  only  by  the  feel  of  the  ground  under  his  feet.  &quot;I  don't  see  why  this  should  happen  to  me,&quot;  he  said,  and  from  the  depths  of  the  wood  a  voice  said  &quot;To  who?&quot;  dis-  concertingly,  but  it  was  only  an  owl.  So  he  kept  on  until  he  saw  a  light  through  the  trees,  and  he  made  his  way  to  it,  through  the  underbrush  and  around  fallen  logs,  until  he  came  to  a  house  in  a  clearing.  At  this  time  of  night  they'll  be  easily  frightened,  he  thought.  I  must  speak  carefully  or  they'll  close  the  door  in  my  face.  When  the  door  opened  in  answer  to  his  knock  and  a  woman  stood  looking  out  at  him  from  the  lighted  doorway,  he  said  politely,  &quot;It's  all  right,  ma'am,  I'm  not  a  robber.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  the  woman  said,  &quot;you're  an  industrious  tailor.&quot;  &quot;Now,  how  did  you  know  that?&quot;  he  asked  in  amazement.  The  woman  did  not  seem  to  feel  that  this  question  needed  answering,  and  there  was  something  about  her  that  made  him  uneasy,  and  so,  though  he  would  much  rather  that  she  invited  him  in  and  gave  him  a  place  by  the  fire  and  a  bit  of  supper,  he  said,  &quot;If  you  would  be  kind  enough  to  show  me  the  way  out  of  the  wood-&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know  that  I  can,&quot;  the  wom-  an  said.  &quot;Isn't  there  a  road  of  some  kind?&quot;  &quot;There's  a  road,&quot;  the  woman  said  doubtfully,  &quot;but  it  wasn't  built  in  your  lifetime.&quot;  &quot;I  beg  pardon?&quot;  &quot;And  anyway,  you'd  soon  lose  it  in  the  dark.  You'll  have  to  wait  until  morning.  How  did  you  happen  to-&quot;  At  that  point  a  baby  began  tocry,  and  the  woman  said,  &quot;I  can't  stand  here  talking.  Come  in.&quot;  Thank  you,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  very  kind  of  you,  ma'am,&quot;  and  as  he  stepped  across  the  threshold  there  was  sudden-  ly  no  house,  no  lighted  room,  no  wom-  an.  Nothing  but  a  clearing  in  the  wood.  In  disappointment  so  acute  that  it  brought  tears  to  his  eyes,  he  sat  down  on  the  groundand  tucked  his  legs  under  him  and  tried  to  get  used  to  the  idea  that  he  wasn't  going  to  sit  by  a  warm  fire,  under  a  snug  roof,  with  a  bit  of  supper  by  and  by,  and  a  place  to  lay  his  head  at  bedtime.  I  will  catch  my  death  of  pneumo-  nia,  he  thought.  He  put  his  hand  to  his  vest;  the  needle  was  still  there.  He  felt  his  forehead,  and  then  took  his  glasses  off,  folded  them  carefully,  and  put  them  in  his  vest  pocket.  Then  he  stretched  out  on  the  bare  ground  and,  looking  up  through  the  trees,  thought  about  his  tailor  shop,  and  about  a  great-  coat  that  he  was  working  on.  It  was  of  French  blue,  parttrue  cashmere  and  part  Lincoln  wool,  with  a  three-tiered  cape,  and  it  wasn't  promised  until  a  fortnight,  but  he  would  have  finished  it  and  have  given  it  to  his  wife  to  press  if  he  hadn't  suddenly  found  himself  in  this  lonely  wood.  Then  he  thought  about  his  wife,  who  would  be  wondering  why  he  didn't  come  upstairs  for  his  supper.  And     -Rosert  A.  Brooks  then  about  his  father,  who  had  a  stroke  and  never  recovered  the  use  of  his  limbs  or  his  speech.  In  the  evening,  after  the  day  was  over,  the  industrious  tailor  used  to  come  and  sit  by  his  father's  bed,  and  he  would  bring  whatever  he  was  working  on-a  waistcoat  or  a  pair  of  knee  breeches,  or  an  embroi-  dered  vest-and  spread  it  out  on  the  counterpane,  to  show  his  father  that  the  lessons  had  been  well  learned  and  that  he  needn't  worry  about  the  quality  of  work  being  turned  out  by  the  shop.  And  instead  of  being  pleased  with  him,  his  father  would  push  the  work  aside  im-  patiently.  There  seemed  to  be  some-  thing  on  his  mind  that  he  very  much  wanted  to  say,  some  final  piece  of  wis-  dom,  but  when  he  tried  to  speak  he  could  only  utter  meaningless  sounds.  Now,  through  the  tops  of  the  bare  trees,  the  tailor  could  see  the  stars,  so  bright  and  so  far  away....  But  how  did  it  get  to  be  autumn,  he  wondered.  And  why  am  I  not  cold?  Why  am  I  not  hungry?  He  fell  asleep  and  dreamed  that  he  had  more  work  to  do  than  he  could  possibly  manage,  and  " b"woke  up  with  the  sun  shin-  ing  in  his  face.  &quot;Wife?&quot;  he  called  out,  before  he  remembered  where  he  was  or  what  had  happened  to  him.  He  sat  up  and  looked  around.  There  was  no  house  in  the  clearing,  and  no  sign  that  there  ever  had  been,  but  there  was  a  path  leading  off  through  the  trees,  and  he  followed  it.  At  this  time,  more  than  half  of  England  was  for-  ests,  and  so  he  knew  that  it  might  be  days  before  he  found  his  way  out  of  the  wood.  &quot;I  must  be  careful  not  to  walk  in  a  circle,&quot;  he  told  himself.  &quot;That's  what  people  always  do  when  they  are  lost.&quot;  But  one  fallen  tree,  one  sapling,  one  patch  of  dried  fern,  one  bed  of  moss  looked  just  like  anoth-  er,  and  he  could  not  tell  whether  he  was  walking  in  a  circle  or  not.  Now  and  then,  not  far  from  the  path,  there  would  be  a  sudden  dry  rustle  that  made  his  heart  race.  Was  it  a  poison-  ous  viper?  What  was  it?  The  rustle  did  not  explain  itself.  Oddly  enough,  he  himself,  step-  ping  on  dry  leaves  and  twigs,  did  not  make  a  sound.  &quot;I  ought  to  be  living  on  roots  and  berries,&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  and  though  there  were  plenty  of  both,  he  did  not  know  which  were  edible  and  which  were  not,  and  he  did  not  feel  inclined  to  experiment.  But  when  he  came  to  a  spring,  he  thought,  I  will  drink,  because  this  far  from  any  house  or  pasture  it  cannot  be  contaminated.  .  .  .  He  knelt  down  and  put  his  face  to  the  water  and  nothing  happened.  His  throat  was  as  dry  as  before.  The  water  remained  just  out  of  reach.  He  leaned  farther  forward  and  again  nothing  happened.  The  water  kept  receding  until  his  face  touched  dry  gravel.  He  raised  his  head  in  surprise  and  there  was  the  beautiful  spring,  glit-  tering,  jewel-like  in  the  sunlight,  push-  ing  its  way  under  logs  and  between  boulders,  murmuring  as  it  went,  but  not  to  be  drunk  from.  &quot;Can  it  be  that  I  am  dead?&quot;  the  tailor  asked  himself.  And  then,  &quot;If  I  am  dead,  why  has  no-  body  told  me  where  to  go,  or  what's  expected  of  me?&quot;  As  he  walked  on,  he  tried  to  remem-  ber  if  in  the  old  days,  before  he  sudden-  ly  found  himself  in  this  wood,  he  had  ever  got  down  on  his  hands  and  knees to  drink  from  a  spring.  All  he  remem-  bered  was  that  when  the  other  boys  were  roaming  the  woods  and  bathing  in  the  river  he  was  in  his  father's  shop  learning  to  be  a  master  tailor.  &quot;It  is  possible  that  I  am  dreaming,&quot;  he  said  to  himself.  But  it  did  not  seem  like  a  dream.  In  dreams  it  is  always-  not  twilight  exactly,  but  the  light  is  pe-  culiar,  comes  from  nowhere,  and  is  never  very  bright.  This  was  a  blinding-  ly  beautiful  sunny  day.  &quot;At  all  events,&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  &quot;I  am  a  much  better  walker  than  I  had  any  idea.  I  have  been  walking  for  hours  and  I  don't  feel  in  the  least  tired.  And  even  if  it  should  turn  out  that  I  have  been  walk-  ing  in  a  circle-&quot;  At  that  moment  he  saw,  ahead  of  him,  what  seemed  like  a  thinning  out  of  trees,  as  if  he  was  coming  to  the  edge  of  the  wood.  It  proved  to  be  a  small  clearing  with  a  house  in  it.  Smoke  was  rising  from  the  chimney,  and  as  the  tailor  came  nearer  an  unpleasant  sus-  picion  crossed  his  mind.  &quot;Oh,  it's  you,&quot;  the  woman  said,  when  she  opened  the  door  and  saw  him  standing  there.  She  had  a  baby  in  her  arms,  and  she  didn't  look  particularly  pleased  to  see  him,  or  concerned  that  he  had  passed  the  whole  night  on  the  bare  ground  and  the  whole  day  walking  in  a  circle.  &quot;I'm  sorry  to  trouble  you,  ma'am,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  if  you  will  be  so  kind  as  to  show  me  that  road  you  were  speaking  Of\xe2\x80\x94\xe2\x80\x9d  The  baby  began  to  fret,  and  the  woman  jounced  it  lightly  on  her  shoul-  der.  &quot;As  you  can  see,  I'm  busy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  I  don't  see  how  you  got  here  in  the  first  place.&quot;  &quot;Neither  do  I,\xe2\x80\x9d  he  said.  &quot;Did  you  come  on  a  spring  any-  where  in  the  wood?&quot;  He  nodded.  &quot;And  did  you  drink  from  it?&quot;  &quot;I  couldn't,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;When  I  put  my  face  to  the  water,  there  wasn't  an)7_\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I'm  afraid  there's  nothing  I  can  do,&quot;  the  woman  said,  and  he  saw  that  she  was  about  to  close  the  door  in  his  face.  &quot;Please,  ma'am,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;if  you'll  just  show  me  where  that  road  begins  I  won't  trouble  youany  further,  I  prom-  ise  you.&quot;  &quot;Why  you  had  to  come  today  of  all  days,  when  the  baby's  cuttinga  tooth  and  cross  as  a  bear,  and  the  fire  in  the  stove  has  gone  out,  and  I  still  have  to  do  the  churning  ..  .  You  haven't  mur-  " b"   dered  somebody?  No,  I  can  see  you  haven't.  If  the  police  are  after  you-&quot;  &quot;'The  police  are  not  after  me,&quot;  the  tailor  said  with  dignity,  &quot;and  I  haven't  committedany  crime  that  I  know  of.&quot;  &quot;Well,  that  doesn't  mean  anything,&quot;  the  woman  said.  &quot;Come,  let  me  show  you  the  road.&quot;  He  followed  her  across  the  clearing,  and  when  she  stopped  they  were  stand-  ing  in  front  of  a  clump  of  white  birch  trees.  Beyond  it  the  tangled  under-  brush  began,  and  thebig  trees.  &quot;I  don't  see  any  road,&quot;  the  tailor  said.  &quot;'That's  what  I  mean,&quot;  the  woman  said.  She  stood  looking  at  him  and  frowning  thoughtfully.  &quot;Even  if  there  was  only  a  path-&quot;  the  tailor  began,  and  the  woman  said,  &quot;Oh,  be  quiet.  IfI  let  you  go  off  into  the  wood  again,  you'll  only  end  up  here  the  way  you  did  before.  And  I  can't  ask  you  into  the  house,  because-  Have  you  ever  held  a  baby?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  the  tailor  said.  &quot;My  chil-  dren  are  grown  now,  but  when  they  were  little  I  often  held  them  while  my  wife  was  busy  doing  something.&quot;  As  he  was  speaking,  the  woman  put  the  baby  in  his  arms.  The  baby  turned  its  head  on  its  weak  neck  and  looked  at  him.  Though  the  woman  made  him  un-  easy,  the  baby  did  not.  The  baby's  face  contorted,  and  he  saw  that  it  was  about  to  cry.  &quot;Hush-a,&quot;  he  said,  and  jounced  it  gently  against  his  shoulder,  and  felt  the  head  wobble  against  his  neck,  and   the  down  on  the  baby's  head,  softer  than  any  material  in  his  shop.  &quot;This  may  not  work,&quot;  the  woman  said,  and  started  back  acrossthe  clear-  ing,  and  he  followed  her,  still  holding  the  baby.  At  the  door  of  the  house  she  took  a  firm  grip  on  the  hem  of  the  baby's  gar-  ment  and  then  she  said,  &quot;Go  in,  go  in,&quot;  and  after  a  last  look  over  his  shoulder  at  the  clearing  in  the  wood  he  stepped  across  the  threshold,  expecting  to  find  himself  outside  again,  and  instead  he  was  in  his  own  shop,  sitting  cross-legged  on  his  worktable.  E  listened  and  heard  the  twitter-  ing  of  birds  as  they  flitted  from  branch  to  branch  in  the  elm  tree  out-  side,  and  then  the  miller's  wife,  laugh-  ing  at  some  joke  she  had  just  made.  He  saw  by  the  quality  of  the  light  outside  that  it  was  only  the  middle  of  the  after-  noon.  A  wagon  came  by,  and  the  mill-  er's  wife  called  to  whoever  was  in  the  wagon,  and  a  man's  voice  said,  &quot;Whoa,  there  ...  Whoa  ...  Whoa.&quot;  The  tai-  lor  listened  with  rapt  attention  to  the  conversation  that  followed,  though  he  had  heard  it  a  hundred  times.  Or  con-  versations  just  like  it.  All  around  him  on  the  worktable  were  scrapsof  French-  blue  material,  and  he  could  see  at  a  glance  what  was  waiting  to  be  stitched  to  what.  Finally  the  man  said,  &quot;That's  rich!  That's  a  good  one.  Gee-up  ...&quot;  and  the  wheelsturned  again,  and  the  slow  plodding  was  resumed  and  grew  fainter  and  was  replaced  by  the  sound  of  a  child  beating  on  a  tin  pan.  The  miller's  wife  went  home,  but  there  were  other  sounds-a  dog,  a  door  slamming,  a  child  being  scolded.  Then  it  was  quiet  for  a  time,  and  without  thinking  the  tailor  put  his  hand  to  his  vest  and  found  the  needle.  Two  boys  went  by,  saying,  &quot;I  dare  you  to  do  it,  I  dare  you,  I  dou-  ble-dare  you!&quot;  Do  what,  the  tailor  wondered,  and  went  on  sewing.  The  quiet  and  the  outbreaks  of  sound  alternated  in  a  way  that  was  so  regular  that  it  almost  seemed  planned.  A  loud  noise,  such  as  a  crow  going  caw,caw,  caw,  seemed  to  produce  a  deeper  silence  afterward.  He  studied  the  beautiful  sound  of  footsteps  approaching  and  re-  ceding,  so  like  a  piece  of  music.  The  light  began  to  fail  and  he  hardly  noticed  it,  because  as  the  light  went  it  was  accompanied  by  all  the  sounds  that  mean  the  end  of  the  day:  men  coming  home  from  the  fields,  shops  being  closed,  children  being  called  in  before  dark.  When  the  tailor  couldnot  see  any  longer,  he  put  his  work  aside  and  sat,  listening  and  smiling  to  himself  at  what  he  heard,  until  his  wife  called  him  to  supper.  "