 b" SOMETIMES  I  wonder  if  I'm  not  running  with  the  wrong  social  set.  I  gather  that  at  most  New  York  dinner  parties  the  postprandial  chitchat  concerns  itself  with  things  like  Vidal  Sassoon  haircuts,  the  novels  of  Giinter  Grass,  Rhodesia,  Godard  films,  folk  rock,  and  Allie  Sherman-all  sub-  jects  on  which,  it  so  happens,  I  am  enormously  well  informed.  But  at  the  dinner  parties  my  crowd  gives  there  is  no  postprandial  chitchat.  Indeed,  the  stewed  pears,  Oreos,  and  instant  Max-  well  House  are  scarcely  cleared  away  before  the  host  is  on  his  feet  and  clap-  ping  his  hands  annoyingly  to  impose  silence.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  he  says,  beaming,  &quot;let's  get  out  the  old  paper  and  pencils.  I've  got  some  great  new  toughies!,&quot;  and  before  you  can  say  &quot;Scientific  American'  we  all  sit  down  and  spend  the  next  three  hours  solving  so-called  brainteasers  problems  in  logic  and  mathematics  that  inevitably  seem  to  involve  cannibals  and  missionaries,  shipboard  murders,  non-  stop  express  trains,  balancing  cannon-  balls,  and  other  unrelated  trivia.  At  the  last  four  dinner  parties  my  wife  and  I  have  attended,  we  have  run  up  a  total  of  thirty-seven  man-hours  (man-and-  woman  hours)  on  brainteasers,  not  counting  time  out  for  Bufferin.  This  Friday,  however,  the  crowd  is  coming  to  our  place  for  dinner,  and  the  past  couple  of  evenings,  while  the  little  woman  (4&quot;  3&quot;&quot;)  has  been  in  the  kitchen  precooking  her  famous  chicken  a  la  king  for  the  occasion,  I  have  been  preparing  eight  original  brainteasers  that  I  plan  to  spring  on  everybody  right  after  the  lime  jello.  As  I  see  it,  either  these  problems  wipe  out  the  brainteaser  craze  or  I  find  a  new  set  of  friends.  By  now,  an  eager  gleam  must  be  shining  in  the  eyes  of  most  of  my  read-  ers,  so  let's  get  right  to  the  problems  themselves.  Does  everybody  have  a  nice  sharp  pencil?  Remember,  now,  no  talking  for  the  next  three  and  a  half  hours.  Have  fun!  Problem  1  :  Y  es  or  No?  In  the  far-off  land  of  Ennui,  the  women  always  tell  the  truth  and  the  men  always  lie.  Moreover,  in  the  curious  language  of  the  Ennuians  the  word  for  &quot;yes&quot;  is  &quot;yes,&quot;  while  the  word  for  &quot;no'&quot;  is  also  &quot;yes.&quot;  At  a  remote  mountain  crossroads,  you  meet  an  Ennuian  husband  and  wife  on  their  way  home  from  a  P.-T.A.  meeting,  and  you  ask  them  if  you  are  headed  north.  &quot;Yes!&quot;  theyboth  answer  at  once.  Are  you  headed  north?  Answer:  Frankly,  it's  difficult  to  say.  The  irritating  fact  is  that  the  En-  nuians,  to  the  profound  puzzlement  of  Margaret  Mead,  have  never  been  able  to  grasp  the  concept  of  direction,  north  or  otherwise,  and  it  is  not  un-  usual,  for  instance,  for  an  Ennuian  to  go  down  to  the  corner  for  a  chocolate  malted  and  not  find  his  way  home  again  for  months.  For  those  who  wish  to  investigate  this  odd  phenomenon  fur-  ther,  cf.  Dr.  Carleton  R.  Hogaboom's  &quot;Seven  Years  of  Circling&quot;  (National  Geographic,  October,  1924)  and  Mrs.  Maude  Bulcher  Ward's  definitive  four-  volume  work  &quot;Ennui:  Land  of  the  Lost&quot;  (Longmans  &amp;  Co.,  1894).  All  in  all,  when  visiting  Ennui  it's  a  good  idea  to  carry  a  compass.  Problem  2:  Expressly  for  Y  ou  Littleville  and  Gotham  City  are  ex-  actly  four  hundred  and  twenty-four  railroad  miles  apart.  On  an  August  afternoon,  at  precisely  2:14  P.M.  Cen-  tral  Standard  Time,  the  non-stop  Red  Ball  Express,  travelling  at  an  average  speed  of  72.3  miles  per  hour,  left  Lit-  tleville  for  Gotham  City.  Meanwhile,  on  the  same  afternoon,  at  precisely  2:16  P.M.  Eastern  Daylight  Saving  Time,  the  non-stop  Blue  Dart  Express,  travelling  at  an  average  speed  of  68.4  miles  per  hour,  left  Gotham  City  for  Littleville.  Now,  read  wery  carefully  through  the  problem  again,  and  then  answer  this  question:  At  what  point  between  Littleville  and  Gotham  City  did  the  two  crack  express  trains  meet?  Answer:  According  to  survi-  vors,  about  two  miles  east  of  Cranberry  Junction.  Problem  3:  Murder  Ahoy!  Far  out  at  sea  on  his  ninety-eight-  foot  yawl,  wealthy  Wilbur  W.  Water-  fall  is  found  dead,  a  sterling-silver  lob-  ster  fork  protruding  from  his  left  ear.  He  is  clad  only  in  espadrilles  and  ca-  nary-yellow  bathing  trunks.  On  the  yawl  with  him  are  three  business  asso-  ciates,  Smith,  Jones,  and  Hockenlocker,  about  whom  we  know  only  these  six  facts:  1.  The  Bulgarian  is  left-handed,  2.  Ralph  is  forty-seven  years  old.  3.  Grace  smokes  Old  Golds.  4.  Smith  is  right-handed,  while  Jones,  a  switch-hitter,  batted  .387  in  the  Sally  League  last  season.  5.  Beatrice  is  prettier  than  Hocken-  locker.  6.  Lester  told  the  Lithuanian  that  lobsters  had  been  selling  at  $1.18  per  &quot;  K  49  pound  in  Halifax  on  July  18th,  a  Monday.  Using  all  of  these  six  facts,  what  can  one  conclude  about  the  death  of  wealthy  Wilbur  W.  Waterfall?  Answer:  Never  go  in  swimming  un-  til  at  least  an  hour  after  eating  potato  salad.  Problem  4:  The  Odd  Ball  You  are  given  twenty-seven  cast-  iron  cannonballs,  twenty-six  of  which  weigh  exactly  eighty-five  pounds  and  the  twenty-seventh  of  which,  although  identical  with  the  others  in  appearance,  weighs  exactly  eighty-five  pounds  and  one-quarter  ounce.  Using  only  an  old  set  of  baby  scales  that  registers  up  to  twenty-two  pounds,  two  full  buckets  of  water,  an  ordinary  deck  of  cards,  and  a  pair  of  rusty  five-pound  dumbbells,  is  there  a  way  to  discover  the  heavier  ball  after  only  four  weighings?  Answer:  No.  Problem  5:  Safari  'Three  cannibals  and  three  mission-  aries,  carrying  a  two-man  rowboat,  are  trekking  through  northeastern  New  Jersey  when  they  come  to  a  broad  river  that  they  wish  to  cross.  All  of  the  missionaries,  being  honor  graduates  of  Mississippi  Southern,  know  how  to  row,  but  none  of  the  cannibals  knows  how  to  row,  although  two  of  them  took  a  course  in  Water  Safety  at  Camp  Crowsfeet  last  summer.  Now,  if  at  any  time  the  cannibals  outnumber  the  missionaries,  the  savages  will  swiftly  gobble  up  the  defenseless  Baptists.  If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  missionaries  are  in  the  ma-  jority  at  any  time,  the  cannibals  will  rapidly  expire  of  acute  bore-  dom.  How  did  they  all  get  safely  to  the  other  side  of  the  river?  Answer:  They  caught  a  No.  108  Public  Service  Bus  in  Jersey  City,  which  took  them  through  the  Holland  Tunnel  and  uptown  to  the  Port  Au-  thority  Bus  Terminal,  from  where  they  walked  east  and  had  lunch  at  Toffe-  netti's.  Later,  still  carrying  their  two-  man  rowboat,  they  took  in  the  show  at  the  Radio  City  Music  Hall.  Problem  6:  The  7:48  AM.  Choo-  Choo  for  Grand  Central  You  are  the  engineer  of  an  express-  local  that  leaves  White  Plains  for  Grand  Central  Station  at  exactly  7:48  [REDACTED]  with  fifty-nine  passengers  aboard.  At  Scarsdale,  thirteen  passengers  get  on  the  train  and  two  get  off  ;  at  Tuckahoe,  eleven  get  on  and  one  gets  off;  at  Mount  Vernon,  nineteen  get  on  and  four  get  off.  The  train  then  continues  non-stop  into  Grand  Central.  Now,  " b"without  again  reading  through  the  problem,  answer  this  question:  What  was  the  name  of  the  passenger  who  got  off  at  Tuckahoe?  Answer:  Floyd  J.  (Tickets)  Over-  myer.  Actually,  Mr.  Overmyer  wasn't  a  passenger  at  all;  he  was  the  conduc-  tor.  By  the  time  the  express-local  reached  Tuckahoe,  it  was  already  run-  ning  two  hours  and  nineteen  minutes  late.  The  air-conditioning  had  stopped  working  shortly  after  they'd  pulled  out  of  White  Plains,  and  thirty-six  passen-  gers  in  a  row  had  angrily  asked  Over-  myer,  &quot;Just  exactly  when  are  we  go-  ing  to  get  to  Grand  Central?&quot;  In  Tuckahoe,  Mr.  Overmyer  stepped  off  the  train,  took  a  full  Sandy  Koufax  windup  and  threw  his  ticket  punch  all  the  way  across  the  parking  lot,  and  then  ambled  cheerfully  away.  Thus,  after  forty-eight  years  with  the  New  York  Central,  during  which  time  he  had  not  missed  a  single  day  of  work,  Tickets  Overmyer  permanently  called  it  a  day.  He  is  now  in  the  delicatessen  business  with  his  brother-in-law  in  Center  Moriches.  Problem  7:  If  s  All  Relative  Lorna  is  strolling  down  the  street  when  she  is  appalled  to  see  Melvin  run  over  by  a  steamroller.  &quot;Brothers  and  nephews  have  I  none,&quot;  cries  Lorna,  dogtrotting  up  to  the  scene  of  the  tragedy,  &quot;but  Melvin's  mother's  den-  tist's  brother-in-law  is  my  father's  caddie's  sister-in-law's  son!&quot;  What  re-  lations  had  Lorna  and  the  deceased,  Melvin,  in  common?  Answer:  Shamelessly  illicit.  Problem  8:  Cold  Storage  This  problem  in  simple  logic  is  based  on  an  actual  incident  that  took  place  several  years  ago  near  Leesburg,  [REDACTED].  Ottoway  T.  Smight,  an  aging  butcher's  apprentice,  was  working  late  in  a  frozen-foods-processing  plant  when  a  gust  of  wind  blew  a  refrigerator  door  shut  behind  him,  locking  him  in  in  a  cubicle  where  the  temperature  was  120  degrees  below  zero.  There  was  no  way  to  open  the  door  from  the  inside,  nor  was  there  an  alarm  system,  and  since  all  of  Smight's  co-workers  had  gone  home,  there  was  absolutely  no  chance  that  anyone  would  happen  along  to  open  the  door  from  the  outside.  Shiv-  ering  with  the  intense  cold,  Smight,  who  was  wearing  onlya  thin  T  shirt  and  a  pair  of  chino  pants,  tried  to  call  out  for  help,  but,  being  afflicted  with  an  acute  case  of  laryngitis,  he  was  unable  to  raise  his  voice  above  a  whisper.  The  refrigerator,  it  should  further  be  noted,  was  entirely  empty  except  for  Smight  and  twenty-nine  dozen  Polish  sausages.  Knowing  that  within  a  few  minutes  he  would  be  a  goner,  Smight  hurriedly  fumbled  through  his  pockets  to  see  if  there  wasn't  something  on  his  person  that  might  be  of  use.  The  re-  frigerator  light,  of  course,  had  gone  out  when  the  door  closed,  but,  feeling  about  in  the  dark,  Smight  discovered  six  ob-  jects  in  his  pockets-a  half-empty  box  of  Clorets,  a  penknife,  a  roller-skate  key,  an  American  Express  credit  card,  a  paperback  copy  of  Parrington's  &quot;Main  Currents  in  American  Thought,&quot;  and  three  ounces  of  lint.  After  thinking  for  several  desperate  minutes,  Smight  sud-  denly  snapped  his  fingers.  He  had  hit  upon  a  course  of  action!  What  did  Ottoway  T.  Smight  do?  Answer  :  Smight  used  the  penknife  to  commit  hara-kiri.  Did  you?  "