 b"IT  is  a  little  past  twelve  on  a  mid-  I  November  night  with  a  waning  moon,  and  it  has  been  a  thorny  evening.  Tenants'  meetings!  I  am  try-  ing  to  collect  my  thoughts,  punctuated  though  they  may  be  by  distant  pistol  shots.  The  apartment-house  foyer,  among  whose  imposing  furnishingsI  am  wandering,  waiting,  is  dim.  Neither  the  overbearing  youth  at  the  switch-  board  nor  the  elderly  night  doorman  on  his  simulated-alabaster  bench  along-  side  the  internally  lighted  fountain  has  paid  me  the  least  heed.  As  a  rule,  I  do  not  relish  going  unnoticed,  but  in  a  way  I  am  grateful,  for  something  is  out  of  kilter  in  this  place,  and  I  need  time  and  quietto  thresh  it  out.  I  am  aware  that  hoping  that  fifty-  odd  disparate  occupants  might  behave  like  ladies  and  gentlemen  is  demented.  God  knows  I  should  have  foreseen  what  happened  tonight;  after  all,  I  have  had  the  honor  of  knowing  the  older  ones  a  good  while.  My  name  is  Huddleston,  and  my  parents  end  grandparents  lived  here.  Tonight  we  elected  and  dismissed  committees,  signed  and  rescinded  petitions,  and  all  with  rancor.  Indeed,  almost  everyone  was  ill-behaved  except  Arthur  Cramm,  the  big,  crew-cut  young  man,  the  new-  est  of  us.  The  others  consider  him  a   parvenu,  but  he  seems  constructive  to  me,  if  a  mite  unhinged.  No  one  else  in  the  place  hasa  spark  of  leadership.  &quot;I  think  the  powder-room  pipes  are  on  the  fritz,&quot;  the  switchboard  operator  says,  nodding  across  the  foyer.  &quot;What,  egain?&quot;  says  the  elderly  doorman.  I  may  be  more  out  of  sorts  than  need  be  tonight.  I  have  been  offfor  my  an-  nual  breather,  and  I  am  sorry  to  be  home.  It  was  only  a  quick  trip  to  Ston-  ington  for  yet  another  re\xc3\xa9nactment.  (The  Old  South  has  nothing  on  New  England  when  it  comes  to  re\xc3\xa9nact-  ments.  Bell-mouthed  muskets.  Three-  cornered  hats.  War  paint  and  feathers.  Transcendentalists.)  But  the  presence  of  Edwin  Huddleston  III  is  expected,  come  what  may,  every  year  in  late  Indian  summer,  at  Stonington,  where  I  drowned  in  1948,  and  something  makes  me  keep  on  trotting  up  there,  I  wish  I  knew  what.  I  contribute  my  modest  performance  (an  inopportune  yaw  in  a  five-o'clock  change  of  wind,  a  few  bubbles,  and  thereI  go  again),  and  Ileave.  I  carry  a  splashing  sound  with  me  all  the  time,  and  that  is  what  is  bugging-his  word-the  switch-  board  boy.  I  am  waiting  here  for  Arthur,  who  is  trying  to  pick  up  the  pieces  after  the      meeting.  I  wonder  what  can  be  keep-  ing  him.  His  manner  is  peremptory,  I  know,  but  he  is  kind,.  He  understands  what  a  person,  a  tenant  (we  consider  ourselves  the  true  tenants),  is  up  against.  He  had  Ais  contretemps  just  after  he  came  to  theold  building  that  stood  on  this  spot.  Blew  himself  up.  Now  the  doorman  is  admitting  a  lady  in  a  mink  stole  and  light-blue  stretch  pants;  her  husband,  rolling  his  cigar  back  and  forth  across  his  mouth,  comes  after  her.  They  are  carnates,  of  course-corporeals.  Like  the  doorman,  like  the  switchboard  operator  and  hun-  dreds  more  in  this  dreadful  new  con-  struction  where  all  of  usare  grotesquely  confined.  An  elevator  chimes,  opens,  and  swallows  the  couple  in  rosy  light  and  muted  Rimski-Korsakov.  From  the  Teenage  Go-Go  Lounge  downstairs  (it  is  next  to  the  sauna  bath)  insensate  sounds  are  rising.  But  even  through  these  I  can  hear,  now  and  then,  short,  muffled  reports  from  up  where  the  old  attic  was.  Colonel  Flemming  of  Burn-  side's  Corps  dispatching  himself  again.  Bang,  bang!  Well-midnight.  The  waning  moon.  I  suppose  what  I  am  trying  to  thresh  out  is-what  has  happened  to  commu-  nity  values?  In  the  old  place,  we  kept  our  distance,  as  city  dwellers  will,  but  we  were  responsible  and  civil.  We  had  our  assignments-some  tedious,  some  bizarre-and  we  carried  them  out  to  the  letter,  ours  not  to  reason  why.  Miss  Emma  Flemming,  the  Colonel's  aunt,  sat  weeping  in  the  second-floor-front  bay  window,  always  writing  the  same  letter  and  tearing  it  up.  She  died  of  a  decline.  1851.  Blighted  love.  Mrs.  [REDACTED]  Daley  (a  collateral  Flemming  relative,  turn  of  the  century,  a  fine  figure  of  a  woman)  used  to  rustle  up  the  curving  staircase,  strip-  ping  off  her  elegant  pale-  lavender,  bloodstained  gloves,  and  run  weeping  along  the  halls  looking  for  a  place  to  hide  them.  That  house  was  already  a  hundred  years  old  when  it  was  made  into  flats,  and  even  then  it  kept  its  char-  acter.  Shadowy  ceilings,  enormous  closets,  dead  air  space  in  the  walls;  niches,  recesses,  drafts.  Conditions  were  perfect.  And  the  peo-  ple  who  lived  in  it  respected  us.  They  often  saw  Miss  Emma  at  work  at  her  mar-  quetry  desk.  (We,  on  this  " b"side,  must  be  believed  to  be  seen.)  They  recognized  the  sound  ofthe  Colonel's  pis-  tol,  and-if  I  may-of  the  Stonington  surf.  Now  Miss  Emma  works  unseen  in  a  conversation  pit,  talked  through  by  carnates.  I  am  myself  mistaken  forfaulty  plumbing.  I  have  not  had  the  heart  to  find  out  how  the  laundress  is  faring.  She  has  asthma-though  she  joined  us  through  the  agen-  cy  of  a  runaway  horse-  and  for  fifty  faithful  years  she  wheezed  up  the  old  wooden  steps  from  the  base-  ment,  her  basket  creaking,  at  eleven  each  Monday  night.  The  people  of  those  days  set  their  clocks  by  her.  Now  the  clocks  are  elec-  tromatic  and  there  are  no  wooden  steps.  I  have  heard  that  she  has  taken  to  throw-  ing  objets  d'art,  but  surely  that  is  gossip.  What  has  be-  come  of  Arthur?  Probably  he  stopped  off  again  to  talk  to  that  waif  from  Ken-  tucky.  Something  Keely.  The  boy  who  still  hasn't  found  out  that  he  is  dead.  RTHUR  is  a  compulsive  amateur.  In  his  earlier  dimension,  he  went  in  for  almost  everything,  including  the  oc-  cult.  (He  came  over  here  full  of  egre-  gious  misconceptions.  Thought  we  were  all  reliving  misdeeds  in  order  to  amend  them.  Rubbish.  Who  Zzows  why  we  do  what  we  do?  )  Arthur  has  a  Master's-  social  psychology--but  for  a  year  or  so  he  attended  a  college  of  pharmacy,  and  that  is  how  he  came  to  blow  himself  up.  Alchemy.  He  made  a  permanent  hobby  of  collateral  research.  Ran  onto  some  seventeenth-century  recipe  and  got  it  wrong.  His  assignment,  like  mine,  is  simply  to  re\xc3\xa9nact,  which  he  can  do  without  so  much  as  getting  his  feet  wet.  He  winds  the  show  up  standing  in  a  blue  flame  of  striking  beauty.  The  rest  of  the  time,  he  is  followedby  a  sug-  gestion  of  burning  sulphur,  which  he  resents  as  having  pejorative  implica-  tions.  His  current  spare-time  interest  is  the  reaction  ofthe  individual  to  con-  temporary  stress,  and  he  feels  that  in  this  building  he  is  in  clover.  I  can  see  why.  Stress  we  have,  and  the  reactions  are  dismally  apparent.  If  Arthur  can  re-  verse  the  trend  with  his  line  of  patter  (&quot;Adjust,&quot;  he  importunes  Miss  Emma  and  Mrs.  Daley,  and  the  man  who  car-  ries  his  head-I  forget  his  name-and  is   the  boy  in  the  Buster  Brown  suit,  who  hasn't  the  foggiest  notion  what  Ar-  thur's  talking  about),  if  Arthur  can  make  all  or  most  of  the  tenants  of  this  place  relate  and  adjust,  my  hat  is  off.  Little  Keely  is  another  matter.  He  is  a  sad,  dark-eyed  young  man-a  drifter.  He  had  an  odd  job  as  a  roofer's  helper  and  fell  from  the  attic  down  a  disused  dumbwaiter  shaft.  I  suppose  he  may  have  run  across  the  Colonel  up  there,I  don't  know.  The  Colonel  is  pretty  sur-  prising.  At  any  rate,  Keely  sits  in  any  dark  corner  he  can  find,  tilting  a  half-  gallon  brown  jug,  which  is  empty,  to  his  lips.  He  is  confused.  He  is  still  waiting  for  his  payday,  after  which  he  says  he  intends  to  go  straight  home,  where  his  father  is  honing  for  him.  His  daddy.  Arthur  takes  a  particular  interest  in  Keely,  feeling  that  if  he  can  make  him  discover  that  he  is  dead  (whatever  that  is),  he  will  be  able  to  adjust.  Keely  is,  of  course,  an  innocent.  &quot;He  has  to  find  out  for  himself,&quot;  Arthur  says.  &quot;The  best  I  can  do  is  get  him  to  talk,  and  then  sort  of  nudge  him  along.  Maybe  work  toward  a  little  transfer-  ence.  But  it's  not  easy.  He  hasn't  got  any  contemporary  stress  you  could  sink  your  teeth  in.  He  says  he's  catching  onto  our  up-North  ways  and  by  now  they  don't  scare  him-I  suppose  he  means  things  like  my  detonation  and  you  still  wearing  that  sopping  pea  jack-  et.  It  must  give  you  chills.&quot;  I  am  not  in  the  least  uncomfortable  in  these  clothes,  and  Arthur  knows  it.  Yes,  but  how  can  we  possibly  go  about  our  assignments  free  of  stress?  Arthur  has  tried  out-of-hours  group  therapy,  occupational  therapy,  what  all.  Not  one  ofus  is  able  to  do  his  work  decently.  Sometimes  I  wonder  if  we  are  not  being  tested.  I  see  no  other  way  to  ex-  plain  our  fixin  what  I  still  manage  to  hope  is  a  rational  universe.  First,  down  crashes  our  duly  assigned-our  love-  ly-place  of  revenance.  Of  course,  we  expected  appropriate  relocation;  delay  was  merely  red  tape.  And  then,  all  around  us,  up  and  up  went  this.  Urban  renewal!  Small  wonder  community  values  suffer.  There  is  no  attic  now  for  Colonel  Flemming.  He  is  in  a  laundry  chute.  (Arthur  discovered  he  shot  him-  self  as  some  sort  of  political  protest  in  1908.  Country  going  to  hellin  a  hand-  basket.  Theodore  Roosevelt's  fault.  But  what  good  did  it  do  to  find  out?  The  Colonel  is  still  in  the  chute,  free  associ-  ation  or  no,  and  the  resonance  there  hurts  his  head.  Besides,  he's  supposed  to  pace.)  Mrs.  Daley  is  required  to  startle  people.  In  theold  days,  she  was  always  good  for  a  corporeal  gasp  or  scream.  Now  if  a  credulous  sort  does  manage  to  catch  a  glimpse  ofher,  he  just  turns  glassy-eyed  and  goes  on  by.  New  York.  After  a  hearty  beginning,  even  Arthur  showed  signs  of  doubt.  &quot;Everyone's  threatened  with  loss  of  identity,&quot;  he  " b"would  sometimes  say.  &quot;All  but  maybe  Keely  and  you  andme.  Still,  I  keep  trying.&quot;  A  young  man  in  a  turtleneck  sweat-  er  is  escortingthree  little  barbered  dogs  across  thelobby.  Once,  any  dog  would  have  known  that  I  was  here,  would  have  bristled  and  whined-but  no.  The  atmosphere  of  this  less  than  stately  mansion  is  too  numbing;  there  is  no  gloom  to  it.  Well,  some  of  my  col-  leagues  are-turning.  They  doubt  the  validity  of  the  controlling  directives,  and  though  I  deplore  it  with  every  fibre,  I  understand.  Take  Emil  Dignan,  the  pianoforte  teacher.  (March  14,  1888.  Pneu-  monia.)  Until  recently,  he  was  pluck-  ing  minor  chords  on  piano  strings  to  warn  of  snow,  but  now  there  are  no  pianos.  At  present,  he  keeps  switching  on  the  television  in  Apartment  15-D.  (A  fellow  in  England  was  exorcised  for  doing  that  sort  of  thing.  The  denizens  of  15-D  just  call  in  a  repairman.  Again  and  again.)  I  don't  say  that  what  Mr.  Dignan  does  is  turning  to  mischief,  pre-  cisely;  he  is  merely  impaled  and  in-  credulous,  I  am  sure.  Nevertheless,  it  verges.  I  think  of  Henry  Beeson.  He  set  out  to  be  a  Post-Impressionist  painter  but  took  to  drink.  Died  in  aspeakeasy.  Henry  is  directed  to  sit  astride  the  northeast  gable  and  howl,  but  there  are  no  gables  here.  All  he  does  now  is  turn  the  pictures  in  8-A  to  the  walls.  He  in-  sists  that  this  is  a  simple  critique,  but  I  fear  it  is  something  more.  Less  and  more.  Stress.  Lack  of  pur-  pose.  Loss  of  identity.  &quot;You  live  long  enough  in  their  houses,  you  begin  to  live  their  way,&quot;  Arthur  said  only  to-  night,  before  he  left  me.     N  recent  weeks,  matters  have  been  moving  toward  what  I  suppose  was  all  along  inevitable.  More  and  more  of  the  tenants  have  been  neglecting  their  assignments  and  striking  out  on  their  own.  At  first,  they  pretended  that  all  they  wanted  was  a  change  of  pace.  Every  few  nights,  Mrs.  Daley  would  set  the  clocks  and  watches  in  18-F  to  different  times.  The  Colonel  would  emerge  and  shoot  out  all  the  fire-exit  light  bulbs.  Miss  Emma  would  work  herself  into  a  pet  and  dematerialize  something-a  transistor  radio,  perhaps,  or  a  pair  of  cufflinks,  or  the  Sunday  Times.  She  is  very  good,  really.  The  carnates  concerned  would  be  up  in  arms,  and  Miss  Emma  could  relax  and  feel  noticed  again.  Well,  recreation  is  one  thing,  mischief  is  another.  Arthur  got  up  a  meeting,  hoping  that  social  activism  would  succeed  where  psycholo-  gy  hadn't.  He  wanted  us  all  to  sign  a   petition  for  redress  of  grievances.  His  optimism  is  sometimes  almost  alarming.  Exactly  whom  would  we  take  thepe-  tition  to?  The  meeting  failed,  natural-  ly.  In  the  first  place,  we  are  not  nor-  mally  the  kind  of  people  who  sing  folk  songs  and  protest.  In  the  second,  the  trend  to  irresponsible  behavior  seemed,  regrettably,  to  be  bearing  fruit.  I  could  never  subscribe  to  it,  nor,  I  am  sure,  could  Arthur.  I  have  long  believed  that  one  should  make  the  current  mani-  festation  as  decent  and  as  orderly  as  possible,  since,  after  all,  we  do  not  know  what  is  next.  Still,  the  corporeal  inhabi-  tants  of  the  place  were  becoming  aware  of  us.  Or  so  we  believed.  It  is  true  that  sounds  are  often  noted  when  presences  are  not,  and  certainly  those  people     know  when  their  pictures  face  the  wall  and  their  bulbs  are  broken.  But  then  they  had  their  &quot;tenants'&quot;  meeting.  I  won't  go  into  detail.  I  know  all  of  us  were  undone.  I  will  only  say  that  they  aired  their  discontent  at  length  and  none  of  us  was  credited-none-not  one.  6-B  would  have  it  that  thereare  sneak  thieves  in  the  place-Miss  Em-  ma's  diversions.  19-H  yammers  about  alcoholic  neighbors-our  extracurricu-  lar  marksman.  But  what  most  of  them  unburdened  themselves  of  were  wails  about  the  condition  of  the  build-  ing.  They  say  it  is  shoddy,  jerry-built,  thrown  together  by  greedy  men.  15-D  blames  his  nightly  TV  troubles  on  short  circuits.  (He  was  in  very  short  temper  from  lack  of  sleep.)  12-C  comes  yet  again  with  that  plumbing  tale  of  woe  that  I  am  sick  of.  9-B  complains  that  his  laundry  chute  is  buckling.  The  Colonel  was  outraged.  There  are,  of  course,  a  great  many  more  in  our  group  than  I  have  mentioned.  Their  activities,  as-  signed  and  otherwise,  also  went  unac-  knowledged  and  were  ascribed  to  thin  walls  and  noisy  disposal  units,  sinking  foundations,  and  unreliable  air-condi-  tioners.  (Poor  Johnny  Hatch-unload-  ed  gun,  1902!  I  remember  when     " b"that  slow,  clammy  chill  of  his  would  go  to  a  person's  marrow.  I  felt  it  more  than  once  in  the  old  days.)  And  so  on.  The  meeting  was  long,  and  ended  with  the  signing  ofa  petition  toa  landlord  whose  identity  the  signers  at  least  knew.  Redress  of  grievances!  The  impact  on  the  discarnate  community  was  shattering.  Disci-  pline,  or  what  was  left  of  it,  went  to  the  winds.  Tonight's  meeting  was  an  attempt  to  stem  the  tide.  Only  Arthur  and  I  held  out  in  the  end.  (Young  Keely  didn't  go.  Felt  it  wasn't  his  place  to.)  The  rest  are  determined  to  have  what  they  call  fun  from  here  on  out.  Have  fun  and  attract  atten-  tion,  no  matter  of  what  sort.  I  fear  it  may  be  joyless.  &quot;The  mech-  anized  environment,&quot;  Arthur  says.  &quot;Crowd-  ing.  Loss  of  mission.  They  might  as  well  be  carnates.&quot;  That,  I  suppose,  is  the  answer  to  my  ques-  tion,  but  I  must  wait  a  little  longer  to  be  sure.  NTHUR  has  been  A  back.  The  place  is  in  darkness.  He  had  indeed  stopped  to  talk  to  Keely.  He  has  told  him,  at  last,  that  he  is  dead.  &quot;If  yow  say  so,  Mr.  Cramm&quot;  was  all  Keely  said,  and  then  he  went  around  the  building  turning  off  the  lights.  Ar-  thur  thought  at  first  that  it  might  be  mischief,  but  no-just  a  form  of  mourning.  Keely  went  right  back  to  his  jug  and  his  corner.  He  says  he  wants  to  do  what  is  right,  as  expected  of  him  by  his  daddy.  He  is,  as  I  have  pointed  out,  an  innocent.  Arthur  hopes  to  haunt  tremendously  well  tonight.  He  esteems  his  assign-  ment  highly-&quot;I  hope  you  won't  con-  sider  me  vain  if  I  say  it's  untypical&quot;-  and  he  thinks  that  in  the  total  dark  he  ought  to  show  up  nicely.  Someone  will  surely  see  him  and  acknowledge  him,  and  then  perhaps  the  community  will  come  to  its  senses.  I  don't  know.      The  Colonel  keeps  shooting,  but  only  for  nuisance  value.  I  hear  he  no  longer  bothers  to  point  the  pistol  at  him-  self.  Already  Arthur  should  be  burning  in  the  basement,  gemlike  and  dedicat-  ed.  The  switchboard  boy  comes  run-  ning  down  the  lobby  with  a  flashlight.  The  doorman  is  still  sitting  on  his  bench.  &quot;Fuse  boxes  on  the  fritz,&quot;  the  boy  says,  breathless.  &quot;Hissing-sputter-  ing-blue  light  all  around  them.  What  a  joint!&quot;  The  two  of  them  hurry  away.  Poor  Arthur!  Z  know.  Here  he  comes.  He  is  overturning  ivy  pots  and  spinning  mo-  biles.  I  cannot  wholly  blame  him.  There  have  been  times  when  I  was  tempted.  I  am  sorely  tempted  now,  but  I  am  still  going  to  hold  out.  I  want  to  see  what  happens-and  I  have  other  reasons.  I  will  not  be  outdone  in  char-  acter  by  a  little  mountaineer.  I  must  go  and-in  a  manner  of  speaking-bid  goodbye  to  Arthur,  and  then  I  might  just  splash  along  and  have  a  drink  with  Keely.  We  can  think  about  the  rational  universe  later. "