 b"IMAGINE  the  scene:  The  village  street-soft,  wet,  rusty  under  the  lapis  sky.  A  bridge,  with  a  torrent  running  under  it.  The  torrent  is  still  swollen  with  last  night's  rain,  and  tur-  bulent.  Then  a  couple  of  inns,  a  Hotel  Oldenhorn  (we  are  in  the  German  part  of  [REDACTED]),  a  codperative  store-end  ofmilling  business  and  resi-  dential  districts.  The  children  scream,  &quot;A  pumper,  a  pumper!&quot;  The  fire  engine  is  new,  red,  and  un-  real.  A  moment  ago,  the  bridge  over  the  torrent  was  deserted;  then  the  pumper  arrived,  and  so  did  we.  A  man  stepped  in  front  of  the  car  with  the  flat  of  his  hand  toward  us  and  slowly  smiled.  He  wore  a  heavy  army  helmet  of  dark,  pewter-gray  steel.  The  fire-  men  climbed  down  from  the  pumper.  We  opened  the  car  door  and  all  got  out-John  and  I,  the  two  children,  and  another  little  boy,  who  is  a  friend.  A  thick  fire  hose,  in  a  brand-new  white  cotton  casing,  lay  across  the  road.  It  rained  last  night,  and  the  village  is  littered  with  wet  leaves.  The  plane  trees  are  almost  bare.  The  village  children  run  and  shout.  One  little  girl  sits  on  the  running  board  of  the  fire  en-  gine  and  sings;  one  long  braid  rests  over  her  right  shoulder.  She  looks  edible.  Apricot  tights,  pistachio  skirt,  lemon  sweater.  Around  her  the  men-  about  ten  of  them-have  assembled  in  attitudes  of  challenge  and  deadlock.  And  down  below  a  fireman  now  stands  in  the  freezing  torrent,  his  corduroy  knickers  rolled  back  above  his  knees,  his  bare  feet  purple,  and  on  his  head  an  army  helmet  that  could  have  been  drawn  by  Diirer.  He  holds  the  nozzle  of  the  hose  underwater,  and  looks  transfixed.  He  takes  the  nozzle  out  of  the  water  and  looks  at  it.  The  nozzle  has  a  copper  grille  on  it,  proba-  bly  to  discourage  the  trout.  Obviously,  the  man  cannot  get  the  water  to  go  up  the  hose.  Three  little  boys  peer  down  from  the  bridge.  They  wear  gum  boots  and  French  firemen's  helmets  on  their  heads.  The  hel-  mets  are  too  wide  for  their  heads  and  come  down  over  their  eyebrows.  When  the  boys  want  to  look  up,  they  throw  their  heads  back.  Their  hats  are  initialled  with  the  letters  &quot;S.-P.,&quot;  for  &quot;Sapeurs-Pompiers.&quot;  Now  one  of  the  boys  is  climbing  down  the  rocky  escarpment  by  the  side  of  the  bridge.  He  wants  to  go  down  into  the  torrent,  but  at  that  moment  a  blast  of  air  from  some  exhaust  on  the  pumper  hits  him  full  in  the  face.  He  screams  and  disappears  from  view,  but  he  must  be  all  right,  because  I  hear  laughter  from  the  bed  of  the  torrent.  There  is  the  boy,  sitting  in  the  torrent,  looking  happy  and  surprised.  The  fire-  man  lets  go  of  the  hose  to  help  the  boy,  but  he-wet,  cold,  and  delighted-  climbs  back  up  again  with  the  ease  of  a  four-footed  animal.  The  fireman  once  more  picks  up  the  nozzle  of  the  hose.  The  boy  is  on  the  bridge  now.  He  struggles  to  escape  the  other  boys,  who  follow  him  as  he  runs  down  the  village  street  and  into  the  door  of  an  inn,  where  he  no  doubt  lives  and  will  now  change  his  pants.  &quot;Pin,  pan,  pin,  pan,  pin,  pan!&quot;  the  pursuers  shout  as  they  pursue,  sounding  like  a  French  fire  engine-but  why  French?  Why  the  French  firemen's  helmets?  This  is,  as  I  said,  a  Swiss-German  village,  out  of  the  tourists'  way,  and  it  is  very  unlikely  that  the  population  speaks  any  French  at  all.  The  pursuers  have  now  returned  and,  breathing  hard,  stand  by  the  side  of  the  pumper.  The  fireman  with  the  purple  feet  is  sitting  on  the  bridge  by  the  pumper,  pulling  on  a  thick  pair  of  hand-  knit  socks.  Then  he  puts  on  a  high  pair  of  gum  boots  and  slowly  descends  back  into  the  torrent.  The  leaves  on  the  ground  are  still  wet  in  spite  of  the  sun.  A  man  tries  to   sweep  them  away,  away,  away  from  the  center  of  the  street,  but  they  stick.  Back  and  forth  goes  the  broom,  help-  lessly,  but  the  man  is  in  no  hurry.  I  watch  him,  and  he  looks  back  at  me.  He  sees  me  watching  him,  and  so  he  stops  sweeping  altogether  and  rests  the  palms  of  his  hands  on  the  broomstick.  Then,  very  deliberately,  he  takes  off  his  brown  felt  hat  and  smiles,  unveiling  a  perfect  set  of  false  teeth-&quot;uwn  complet,&quot;  as  it's  called  in  the  French-speaking  part  of  [REDACTED].  He  walks  very  slowly  to-  ward  the  pumper,  dragging  his  broom  behind  him.  But  nothing  whatever  is  happening.  Oneman  looks  at  a  book,  then  turns  a  valve.  The  man  in  the  torrent  shouts  in  German  that  nothing  is  happening.  The  other  men  stand  around  in  silence.  Their  hands  are  enor-  mous,  and  they  wear  wedding  rings  that  look  like  Life  Savers  made  out  of  pink  gold.  I  ask  one  of  them,  in  Ger-  man,  what  is  happening,  what  is  not  happening,  what  is  wrong.  He  tells  me  he  is  a  volunteer  fireman.  So  arethe  oth-  er  men.  They  meet  every  three  months,  always  on  a  Saturday,  and  after  lunch.  They  received  a  brand-new  pumper  this  morning,  just  in  time  for  &quot;maneu-  vers,&quot;  and  it  doesn't  work  at  all.  No-  body  understands  what's  wrong,  but  something  is  terribly  wrong.  &quot;Not  enough  pressure,&quot;  another  man  tells  me.  The  man  who  sweeps  the  leaves  taps  me  on  the  shoulder;  he  would  like  to  sweep  the  leaves  from  under  my  feet.  I  think  he  would  like  to  annoy  me.  He  smiles  apologetically.  His  royal-blue  cotton  trousers  are  as  wide  asa  circus  clown's.  I  bow  to  him-from  the  waist,  like  a  man,  because  I'm  wearing  trousers-and  take  a  giant  step  to  the  left,  knocking  a  volunteer  fireman  off  balance,  be-  cause  he  did  not  see  me  arriving.  He  was  taking  notes  in  a  loose-leaf  note-  book.  I  apologize  in  Ger-  man.  The  young  man  be-  gins  a  detailed  explanation  of  all  the  possible  reasons  for  the  technical  failure  of  the  pumper.  Then  he  waits  for  my  answer.  &quot;I'm  terribly  sorry,&quot;  I  finally  tell  him,  in  French.  &quot;I  understand  German,  but  I  speak  it  very  badly.&quot;  He  looks  delighted.  &quot;Mot  ausst  jai  \xc3\xa9tudi\xc3\xa9  &amp;  Berne,&quot;  he  says.  And  he  goes  back  to  his  notes.  His  hands  are  pale  and  thin,  and  he  wears  elegant  little  steel-rimmed  glasses.  He  gives  me  a  quick  smile,  points  with  his  pen  in  " b"the  direction  of  the  Oldenhorn  Hotel,  and  beginsa  new  paragraph.  I  have,  as  usual,  lost  sight  of  our  boys;  no,  there  they  are,  all  three  of  them,  in  their  navy-blue  school  uni-  forms  and  climbing  boots,  hanging  over  the  ramp  ofthe  bridge,  their  feet  off  the  ground.  As  for  John,  he  has  joined  the  firemen  around  the  pumper.  He  is  alter-  nately  touching  levers  and  looking  into  the  firemen's  manual.  Then  he  putsthe  manual  down  on  the  pumper  and  takes  a  cigarette  from  his  pocket,  but  he  can't  find  any  matches.  One  of  the  firemen  lights  his  cigarette  for  him.  No,  he  doesn't;  the  lighter  doesn't  work.  An-  other  fireman  runs  off  in  the  direction  of  an  inn.  He  wears  a  large  hammer  slung  into  his  belt  at  the  back.  The  young  fireman  with  the  steel-  rimmed  glasses  turns  to  me  and  says,  &quot;Now  let's  go  see  what's  doing  at  the  Oldenhorn.&quot;  I  accept  his  invitation  readily.  Except  for  their  navy-blue  broadcloth  jackets  piped  in  red,  with  brass  buttons,  and  the  Diirer  helmets,  the  volunteer  firemen  seem  to  dress  as  they  please.  My  guide  wears  beige  corduroy  knickers,  heavy,  knitted  knee  socks,  and  climbing  boots-all  standard  mountain  equip-  ment.  A  wooden  ladder  is  being  extended  upward,and  it  is  now  almost  double  its  original  length.  Slowly,  thetop  of  this  new  long  ladder  is  brought  to  rest  against  the  second-floor  balcony  of  the  Oldenhorn  Hotel.  Half  a  dozen  fire-  men  are  gathered  round  the  foot  of  the  ladder.  Above  the  balcony,  on  the  wall  of  the  Oldenhorn  Hotel,  hangs  a  car-  petbeater  and  a  faded  green  umbrella,  side  by  side,  available  to  anyone  on  the  balcony  who  might  need  them.  The  six  firemen  choose  a  victim  from  among  themselves.  The  victim  slaps  his  forehead  with  the  palm  of  his  enormous  hand  and  staggers  back  in  horror.  The  young  fireman  at  my  side  is  taking  voluminous  notes.  And  in  the  alley  between  the  Oldenhorn  Hotel  and  a  much  smaller,  modest  inn,  I  sud-  denly  notice  a  fireman  I  have  not  seen  before.  He  is  standing  now,  as  he  must  have  been  standing  for  the  last  hour,  holding  the  other  nozzle  of  the  hose  in  both  his  hands.  He  is  waiting  for  the  water  to  be  pumped  from  the  torrent  and  come  out  at  his  end.  In  the  mean-  time,  the  whole  village,  including  the  Oldenhorn  Hotel,  which  looks  very  dry  and  combustible  in  the  sunlight,  could  burn  to  the  ground.  But  the  fire-  man  is  a  patient  soul;  there  he  stands,  in  a  modified  fourth  position,  with  his  whole  weight  on  the  left  boot,  his  right  boot  turned  out,  his  eyes  vacant  and   blue.  He  is  the  picture  of  resigned  im-  potence,  and  he  smokes  a  curved  moun-  tain  pipe.  Meanwhile  the  giant  on  the  ladder  is  slowly  making  his  way  up,  rung  by  rung.  The  fireman  at  my  side  looks  up  at  him  from  his  book,  and  begins  a  new  paragraph.  Only  now  do  I  notice  that  the  giant  on  the  ladderhas  a  rope  tied  around  his  waist,  like  a  mountain  climber.  He  has  Vibram  soles  on  his  climbing  boots.  Finally,  he  steps  over  the  balustrade  of  the  Oldenhorn's  balcony  and  very  de-  liberately  lights  a  cigarette.  Then  he  twists  one  end  of  his  rope  round  and  round  the  open  woodwork  of  the  balus-  trade,  watching  for  effect  like  a  cou-  turier;  heends  the  operation  by  tying  a  delicate  dressmaker's  knot.  Then  he  throws  down  the  other  end  of  the  rope.  And  sighs.  Now  his  job  is  finished,  and  I  see  him  standing  profile  on  the  balcony.  He  is  about  to  settle  himself  down  into  a  dark-green  wicker  armchair.  Crack!  goes  the  wicker  armchair,  and  I  expect  to  see  the  giant  on  the  floor  of  the  bal-  cony,  sitting  on  a  flattish  mound  of  green  wicker,  but  not  at  all.  Crack!  was  the  luxurious  and  non-fatal  sound  of  old  wicker  giving  under  his  tremen-  dous  weight.  A  small  jeep  goes  by  me,  and  stops  in  front  of  the  man  with  the  notebook.  The  driver  is  wearing  a  navy-blue  jacket  piped  in  red,  with  brass  buttons,  and  the  Diirer  helmet.  'The  street-sweeper  walks  up  to  the  jeep,  takes  off  his  brown  felt  hat,  and  salutes  the  driver.  Then  he  rests  the  palms  of  his  hands  on  his  broom  and  his  chin  on  his  hands,  and  theyhold  a  conversation.  A  moment  later,  the  sweeper  runs  around  to  the  back  of  the  jeep,  dragging  his  broom  behind  him.  He  places  it  carefully  against  the  side  of  the  jeep,  and  then  he  opens  the  back  door.  He  climbs  in,  then  out  again,  car-  rying  under  his  arm  a  brand-new  alu-  minum-and-canvas  stretcher,  so  narrow  and  so  short  it  could  only  serve  a  very  skinny  five-year-old  child.  The  street-  sweeper  places  the  canvas  stretcher  on  the  ground,  closes  the  door  of  the  jeep,  and  picks  up  his  broom.  What's  this?:  The  ladder  that  was  resting  against  the  second-floor  balcony  of  the  Oldenhorn  Hotel  has  grown  once  more.  Its  second  extension  is  still  grow-  ing.  The  men  below  are  shouting  or-  ders  to  each  other,  and  looking  up  with  their  heads  thrown  back.  Slowly,  the  slightly  swaying  top  of  the  ladder  comes  to  the  height  of  a  square  postage  stamp  of  an  attic  window.  I  turn  to  the  young  man  with  the  steel-rimmed  glasses  and  say,in  French,  because  I  could  not  possibly  say  it  in  German,  &quot;Is  there  a  distressed  maiden  in  a  nightgown  up  there,  wait-  ing  to  be  rescued?&quot;  &quot;Not  at  [REDACTED];  he  answers,  &quot;but  if  there  was  one,  she  would  be  all  dressed  up  by  now,  and  lacing  her  boots.&quot;  His  French  is  excellent.  He  gives  me  asidelong  glance  to  observe  the  effect  of  his  wit.  I  do  laugh;  in  fact,  I  am  delighted.  My  note-taking  friend  is  delighted,  too.  The  fire  engine  still  stands  on  the  bridge,  surrounded  by  about  twelve  vol-  unteer  firemen,  and  at  this  moment  my  younger  son  is  sitting  in  the  driver's  seat.  The  two  other  boys  still  hang  over  the  side  of  the  bridge,  so  the  man  is  probably  still  standing  in  thefreezing  waters  of  the  torrent.  The  boys  with  the  French  " b"firemen's  helmets-including  the  one  who  fell  into  the  torrent  and  changed  his  pants-are  sitting  on  the  front  step  of  the  Oldenhorn  Hotel,  craning  their  heads  to  see  what  is  happening  directly  above  them.  Four  little  girls,  including  the  edible  one,  are  sitting  on  the  front  step  of  the  inn  next  door  to  the  hotel,  and  they  are  singing  a  canon.  The  street-sweeper  is  more  successful  with  his  sweeping;  the  leaves  must  bedrying.  A  thin  young  man  begins  the  ascent  toward  the  attic  window.  He  also  has  a  rope  around  his  waist.  On  his  way  up,  he  passes  the  giant  fireman,  who  is  resting  on  the  balcony  in  the  green  wicker  arm-  chair  and  blowing  smoke  rings.  &quot;Salut!&quot;  says  the  thin  young  man,  waving  his  left  hand  as  he  races  to  the  topof  the  ladder.  At  the  dormer  window,  he  throws  one  end  of  the  rope  down  to  the  fireman  at  the  foot  of  the  ladder  and  then,  with  a  hop,  head  first,  he  plunges  into  the  dark  square.  The  note-taker  at  my  side  tells  the  street-sweeper  to  go  sweep  somewhere  else.  The  street-sweeper  leans  his  broom  against  the  door  of  a  house  and  walks  toward  the  stretcher.  He  stops  there,  looking  happy,  and  stares  up  at  the  attic  window.  John,  I  see,  is  in  the  alley  by  the  Old-  enhorn  Hotel,  talking  to  the  fireman  who  still  stands  there,  still  holding  the  hose,  still  waiting.  They  are  both  laugh-  ing.  John  holds  the  hose  while  the  fire-  man  takes  a  box  of  matches  from  his  pocket.  Now  the  young  fireman  reappears  at  the  attic  window,  facing  out,  looking  ex-  ceedingly  distraught.  &quot;Non,  mon!&quot;  he  shouts,  beating  his  breast.  Then  some-  thing  in  Schwyzertiitsch,  which  I  do  not  understand.  With  his  eyes  lifted  to  Heaven,  he  makes  the  sign  of  the  Cross.  The  street-sweeper  makes  a  strange  noise,  halfway  betwee  chuckling  and  swallowing  the  wrong  way.  &quot;&quot;What's  happening?&quot;  I  ask  the  note-  taker.  &quot;You'll  see,&quot;  he  answers  without  lift-  ing  his  eyes  from  the  notebook.  The  firemen  who  were  standing  un-  der  the  ladder  now  march  across  the  street  toward  me  with  the  heavy  rope;  the  other  end  is  inside  that  attic  window.  Crach!  goes  the  green  wicker  armchair  as  the  giant  fireman  stands  up  to  see  what  is  about  to  happen  direct-  ly  above  him.  &quot;Aououououi!&quot;  screams  the  young  fireman  at  the  attic  window.  The  fire-  men  who  are  holding  the  rope  across  the  street  shout  an  order.  &quot;Aououououi!&quot;  screams  the  young  fireman  at  the  attic  window  once  more,  and  again  he  makes  the  sign  of  the  Cross,  with  his  eyes  raised  skyward.  Then  he  throws  some  invisible  thing  over  his  left  shoulder,  and  then  he  dives  intothe  air!  No,  it's  all  right.  He  is  suspended  by  a  powerful  hook  from  the  rope  that  is  being  held  by  the  men  across  the  street,  and  he  wears  a  harness,  to  which  the  hook  is  secured.  It  is  beauti-  fully  safe;  the  fireman  is  gliding  down  ever  so  slowly  and  smoothly,  doing  the  breast  stroke  with  both  his  arms  and  his  legs,  and  his  face,  under  the  Diirer  helmet,  wears  an  expression  of  perfect,  suspended  bliss.  I'm  sorry  to  say  I  have  no  idea  how  the  episode  ended.  I  saw  the  fireman  swimming  through  the  air,  about  to  land  very  gently,  but  then,  just  as  he  was  touching  ground,  he  was  jerked  up  again,  like  a  puppet,  and  so  unexpected-  ly  that  his  face  showed  real  terror  and  surprise,  and  this  was  too  much  for  me.  I  began  to  laugh  and  couldn't  stop.  I  sat  down  in  the  middle  of  the  street  and  went  on  laughing,  missing  everything  aroundme,  until  the  young  fireman  with  the  steel-rimmed  glasses  bent  over  me  with  a  large  glass  of  water.  It  tasted  delicious;  it  tasted  like  glacier  water.  &quot;Ah,  merci!&quot;  I  said  through  my  tears,  and  drank  on.  &quot;Nous  sommes  tous  des  amateurs,  hein?&quot;  he  said,  by  way  of  answer.  I  found  the  children  piled  in  the  back  seat  of  the  car,  The  hose  was  removed,  and  we  were  free  to  continue  our  trip  home,  but  we  had  to  wait  until  a  man  who  had  dismounted  from  his  bicycle  to  speak  tothe  street-sweeper  got  out  of  the  way.  He  had  an  enormous  alumi-  num  milk  jug  strapped  to  his  back.  When  they  finished  their  conversation,  the  street-sweeper  turned  to  us,  took  off  his  brown  felt  hat,  and  waved  us  on.  "