 b"NOW  that  autumn  is  here,  it's  N  time  to  take  a  long  look  at  the  baseball  season  just  past.  To  most  of  us,  I  suppose,  the  high  point  of  the  summer  was  the  safe  return  of  our  five  astronauts  from  the  moon  and  their  subsequent  report  that  there  was  noth-  ing  of  interest  up  there.  Few  federal  officials  or  sports  columnists  see  much  sense  in  astronaut  Buck  Simpson's  sug-  gestion  that  the  place  could  be  used  for  a  pitch-and-putt  golf  course.  After  all,  who  wants  to  travel  238,000  miles  just  for  the  thrill  of  hitting  a  975-yard  wedge  shot?  No  one  is  belittling  our  space  program,  of  course.  Some  good  will  come  of  it;  just  you  wait  and  see.  But  this  is  a  sports  column,  so  let's  get  back  to  the  national  pastime  and  a  piping-hot  serving  of  news  'n'  gossip  right  off  the  old  hot  stove.  The  big  story  of  this  1971  season,  of  course,  was  last  week's  announcement  that  the  Yankees  plan  to  move  to  Tus-  caloosa  next  year.  While  a  bit  of  a  shocker,  this  shift  has  been  rumored  for  some  time.  It  is  no  secret  that  the  Yanks  have  long  been  discontented  with  fan  support  in  the  Big  Town.  A  representative  of  C.  B.S.  put  it  this  way:  &quot;For  the  past  two  or  three  years,  the  people  of  Phoenix  have  simply  not  got  behind  our  team.  Now  the  city  fathers  have  flatly  turned  down  our  generous  offer  that  would  have  allowed  them  to  build  us  a  new  seventy-million-dollar  domed  stadium,  with  soundproof  dug-  outs,  bullpen  movie  theatres,  and  an  exciting  artificial-thunderstorm  facility.  As  we  all  know,  fans  have  indicated  a  strong  wish  for  the  occasional  return  of  old-fashioned,  refreshing  mid-game  showers,  and  even  fora  few  rainouts.  Our  dome  experts,  working  with  a  committee  from  M.ILT.,  have  now  solved  this  problem,  and  in  a  new  sta-  dium  we  could  guarantee  five-minute  showers  in  the  outfield  as  an  extra  at-  traction  in  the  event  of  a  one-sided  game.  It  would  provide  an  oddity  for  the  younger  fans  and  a  heartwarming  bit  of  nostalgia  for  the  oldsters.  But  Phoenix  has  said  no.  As  a  result,  we  plan  to  move  to  Tuscaloosa-subject  to  league  approval.&quot;  Similar  unrest  is  supposed  to  be  pre-  vailing  among  the  Stockton  Dodgers.  (Why  does  my  foolish  old  heart  still  want  to  call  them  L.A.  after  all  these  years?  )  Unless  attendance  picks  up  markedly  next  year,  it  is  said,  the  Dodgers  are  headed  for  Eureka,  Cali-  fornia,  in  1973.  A  spokesman  for  N.B.C.,  which  owns  the  Dodgers,  said " b" last  week,  &quot;We  have  a  firm  offer  from  Eureka  to  deed  us  outright  fifteen  hun-  dred  acres  of  prime  ocean-shelf  land  and  to  build  usthe  first  underwater  bubble  ball  park,  with  waves  breaking  over  the  center-field  roof.  This  also  includes  a  parking  marina  and  clam  rights  in  perpetuity.&quot;  The  strangest  club  in  terms  of  sheer  stick-in-the-mud  perversity  is,  of  course,  the  venerable  [REDACTED]  Cubs,  which  still  maintains  its  lifelong  policy  of  day  games  only,  even  though  attend-  ance  is  down  to  an  average  of  9,000  (per  year).  In  the  American  League,  the  two  unchangeables  are  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  Of  course,  the  Twins  have  moved  from  [REDACTED]-St.  Paul  to  Red  Wing-Lake  City,  while  the  Angels  have  shifted  from  Anaheim  to  [REDACTED]  and  then  to  Needles.  But  by  staying  in  the  same  state  both  teams  have  managed  to  keep  their  names  intact,  with  tremendous  savings  in  uniforms,  letterhead  stationery,  and  souvenir  bats-all  of  which  has  been  re-  flected  in  burgeoning  stockholder  divi-  dends  for  these  two  junior-circuit  clubs.  These  intrastate  moves  remind  us,  alas,  ofthe  pending  Lindsay-Woolsey  bill-sometimes  known  as  &quot;the  little  Mann  Act.&quot;  As  we  all  know,  or  should  know,  this  politically  motivated  piece  of  legislation,  backed  by  congressional  middle-of-the-road  crackpots,  church  softball  leagues,  and  powerful  player  lobbies,  would  make  it  a  federal  offense  to  transport  an  athlete  across  a  state  line  for  the  purpose  of  improper  profit-that  is,  for  any  purpose  except  to  play  a  game  for  a  &quot;recognized&quot;  ex-  isting  team.  The  net  result  would  be  that  all  teams  henceforth  would  be  al-  lowed  to  change  cities  only  within  their  own  states.  Particularly  incensed  by  this  proposed  restriction  is  the  A.B.C.  net-  work,  owner  ofthe  Savannah  Phillies,  who  have  been  suffering  lately  at  the  gate,  despite  manful  attempts  to  hype  attendance  with  simulated  Civil  War  battles,  live  possum  hunts,  and  Demoli-  tion  Derby  races.  &quot;Now  that  the  &quot;travel  explosion'  is  a  reality,&quot;  said  an  A.B.C.  spokesman,  &quot;and  any  part  of  the  state  is  accessible  within  twenty  minutes,  this" b"would  mean  that  if  we  moved  we  would  only  be  playing  to  the  same  old  bored  fans.&quot;  IN  case  you  lost  track  somewhere  in  the  middle  of  the  ten-month,  297-  game  season,  here  is  the  final  1971  standing  ofthe  clubs:  Narronat  Lracur\xc2\xae  LEacuE\xc2\xae  Phoenix  Yankees  [REDACTED]  Twins  [REDACTED]  Angels  [REDACTED]  Athletics  Baton  Rouge  White  Sox  [REDACTED]  Indians  Reno  Giants  Stockton  Dodgers  [REDACTED]  Cubs  556e6974656420537461746573Astros  Savannah  Phillies  San  Francisco  Braves  [REDACTED]  Reds  Johnson  City  Patriots  Sioux  Falls  Mets  [REDACTED]  Pirates  [REDACTED]  Codfish  New  York  Manhattans  (will  expand  to  twenty  teams  by  1974)  [REDACTED]  Tigers  [REDACTED]  Red  Sox  [REDACTED]  Senators  Mississippi  Orioles  [REDACTED]  Blintzes  Green  Bay  Butchers  (will  expand  to  twenty-four  teams  by  1976)  Of  course,  many  ofthe  proposed  moves  and  future  additions  have  been  prompted  by  the  fabulous  success  of  the  New  York  Manhattans.  In  this,  their  first  year,  led  by  their  popular  manager,  the  former  operatic  baritone  and  cele-  brated  after-dinner  speaker  &quot;Apples&quot;  Isavestio,  the  Manhattans  have  set  new  all-time  Gotham  and  league  attend-  ance  records,  while  simultaneously  es-  tablishing  a  new  major-league  mark  in  the  all-important  games-lost  column.  Most  intriguing  of  the  year's  devel-  opments  in  the  ever-changing,  heads-  up  national  pastime  is  the  new  Wild  Card  trading  rule,  whereby  a  full  starting  lineup  (including  manager,  coaches,  and  bat  boys)  can  be  traded  intact  to  any  other  team  right  up  to  the  eve  of  the  World  Series!  Who  will  ever  forget  that  Labor  Day  double-  header  in  Reno,  for  example,  when  the  Giants,  led  by  their  veteran  Big  Three  of  Mays,  McCovey,  and  Cepeda,  hit  seventeen  home  runs  with  the  new  cryogenic-center  ball  and  massacred  the  556e6974656420537461746573Astros  in  a  renewal  of  base-  ball's  oldest  new  rivalry?  That  was  the  first  game.  In  the  nightcap,  through  a  quick  trade,  the  top  of  the  Astros'  order  featured  the  same  Big  Three,  who  pro-  ceeded  to  get  revenge  by  mauling  the  Giants,  28-7.  It  is  generally  felt  in  top  baseball  circles  that  this  new  trading  gimmick  will  eventually  prove  to  be  the  undoing  of  the  pernicious  Lindsay-  Woolsey  bill,  and  thus  will  guarantee  the  survival  of  the  grand  old  game  that  our  forefathers  loved  so  well. "