 b"WE  converged  in  the  middle  of  [REDACTED]  Fifty-seventh  Street  sidewalk,  a  disturbingly  lovely  lady  inside  a  magnificent  broadtail  coat  and  I  unfortunately  on  the  outside,  and  the  mazurka  we  executed  trying  to  pass  each  other  would  certainly  have  convulsed  bystanders  had  there  been  any.  Aswe  seesawed  left  and  right,  col-  liding  and  muttering  apologies,  my  nos-  trils  were  ravished  by  the  delicious  scent  she  exuded;  in  the  momentary  glimpse  afforded  me  of  her  ivory  pallor,  I  be-  held  wide-set  sloe  eyes  (the  legacy  of  some  remote  Tartar  forebear?  ),  ac-  cented  by  a  mouche.  An  instant  later,  she  was  gone  and  I  was  staring  down  at  the  card  she  had  pressed  into  my  palm.  It  read,  &quot;Madame  Myosotis,  Spiritual  Reader  and  Adviser.  Speaks  several  different  languages.  Will  help  you  on  problems  such  as  love,  marriage,  business.  She  will  bring  you  happiness.  One  visit  will  convince  you.  All  read-  ings  private.  Satisfaction  guaranteed.  If  you  are  troubled  in  any  way,  don't  fail  to  come  and  see  her  now.&quot;  The  sibyl's  address  was  close  by,  hardly  a  stone's  throw  off  Park  [REDACTED],  and  yet  it  might  just  as  well  have  been  in  Tana-  narive  or  Valparaiso  for  all  I  cared.  Whatever  thirst  I  had  for  divination  was  effectively  slaked  years  ago,  thank  you.  Soothsayers,  stay  away  from  my  door.  Stripped  of  excessive  de-  tail,  the  particulars  were  these:  In  mid-February  of  1963,  I  was  tarrying  briefly  in  4b656e7961,  about  to  consummate  a  long  cher-  ished  dream  of  visiting  Seychelles,  the  Indian  Ocean  archipelago  a  thou-  sand  miles  east  of  Mom-  basa.  So  beautiful  was  Seychelles,  reputedly,  that  many  authorities  located  it  as  the  original  Garden  of  Eden.  It  was  also  said  to  be  the  last  stronghold  of  British  colonialism,  full  of  Edwardian  eccentrics  and  remittance  men-a  para-  dise,  in  short,  calculated  to  pique  anyone's  scholarly  interest.  Owing  to  its  rugged  terrain,  there  was  unfortunately  no  air  serv-  ice,  and  accommodations  aboard  the  monthly  steamer  out  of  4b656e7961,  crammed  with  Indian  refugees  from  Angola,  were  at  a  premium.  Through  the  in-  tercession  of  a  government  official,  however,  whom  I  convinced  that  I  was  a  potential  spark  in  the  Kenyan  powder  keg,  I  ultimately  procured  a  one-way  passage.  But  this  essential  was  merely  a  prelude  to  the  mechanics  of  embarkation  that  had  to  be  arranged  in  4b656e7961-the  visas,  the  bedding  one  needed  for  the  overnight  train  journey  to  the  coast,  the  meal  vouchers,  the  myriad  clearances,  declarations,  and  affidavits  mandatory  for  admission  to  the  Garden  of  Eden.  Then,  just  as  my  preparations  were  complete,  a  shatter-  ing  cable  arrived  from  Toby  Swingler  in  New  York.  Toby  was  much  more  than  a  theat-  rical  agent;  he  was  guide,  philosopher,  and  friend-an  ebullient,  warmhearted  chap  who  was  shepherding  a  play  that  had  bubbled  out  of  my  inkwell  the  previous  autumn  and  was  currently  visible  on  [REDACTED].  Nearly  a  month  had  elapsed  since  Toby's  last  bulletin,  but  that  had  radiated  such  optimism,  with  its  talk  of  road  companies,  movie  sales,  and  the  like,  that  it  never  oc-  curred  to  me  anything  was  amiss.  To-  day's  tidings,  though,  were  unequiyo-  cal:  &quot;Producer  defenestrated  self  into  45th  Street  last  night.  Cast  exhibiting  wonderful  pluck  nonetheless.  Some  per-  formers  hoarse  because  obliged  to  pro-  ject  to  handful  of  patrons  in  balcony  but  morale  unimpaired.  Earnestly  ad-  vise  you  lengthen  visit  Seychelles  as  understand  breadfruit  plenteous  and  aggravations  minimal.&quot;  Once  the  significance  of  Toby's  mes-  sage  sank  home,  it  abruptly  dawned  on  me  that  I  was  in  a  devil  of  a  quandary.  If  the  showwas  about  to  expire,  as  appeared  likely,  it  would  be  callous  to  sequester  myself  on  an  atoll  in  the  Indian  Ocean.  On  the  other  hand,  would  it  actually  benefit  anybody  if  I  jettisoned  the  Seychelles  trip  and  hur-  ried  back  to  attend  the  obsequies?  Lacking  any  intimate  in  4b656e7961  to  counsel  me,  I  decided  on  an  expedient  I  had  never  resorted  to  before;  name-  ly,  astrology.  A  gentleman  named  Mohandas  Ghanef-a  renowned  star-  gazer,  according  to  his  advertisement  in  [REDACTED]  African  Standard-invited  the  perplexed  to  consult  him.  I  rang  up" b"forthwith,  and  was  greeted  by  the  sage  himself  in  a  loud,  jovialvoice.  He  seemed  agreeably  devoid  of  humbug,  and,  having  ascertained  my  birth  date,  he  arranged  to  receive  me  within  the  hour  at  his  chambers  in  Vasco  da  Gama  Road.  The  quarter  where  Mr.  Ghanef  practiced  was  largely  given  over  to  bicycle-repair  stores,  Indian  groceries,  and  shops  displaying  an  impressive  array  of  aphrodisiacs.  His  inglenook,  two  flights  up  a  dark  and  clangorous  stair-  way,  consisted  of  a  bed-sitter,  half  of  whose  floor  space  had  been  pre\xc3\xa9mpted  fora  reception  area.  Seated  cross-  legged  on  the  floor  was  a  portly  gentle-  man  with  a  liquid  eye,  studying  a  pattern  of  chicken  bones  strewn  over  a  towel.  &quot;Good  morning,  good  day!&quot;  he  shouted,  springing  up  with  the  grace  of  an  antelope.  &quot;Mohandas  Ghanef  here!  You  arethe  Aquarian  who  phoned  me  just  now?&quot;  I  nodded,  and  he  conducted  me  into  his  boudoir  past  a  gray  enamelled  gas  stove  on  which  were  ranged  a  dozen  works  of  the  late  Elbert  Hubbard  in  limp  leather,  surmounted  by  a  human  skull.  Bidding  me  sit  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  he  drew  up  a  chair  opposite,  jotted  several  columns  of  fig-  ures  on  a  clipboard,  and,  after  a  close  seru-  tiny,  emitted  a  grunt  of  satisfaction.  &quot;Capital,  my  dear  sir!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  perceive  that  I  am  dealing  with  a  most  re-  markable  individual.  A  man  of  deep  wisdom,  one  who  has  been  tem-  pered  in  life's  crucible.  As  his  system  is  alka-  line,  he  tends  to  be  as-  cetic  in  his  relations  with  women,  in  which  respect  he  resembles  William  Ewart  Glad-  stone.  Above  all,  a  man  of  fantastic  generosity.  Am  I  correct?&quot;  I  acknowledged  that  my  largesse  was  often  princely,  and  he  con-  tinued  on  a  note  of  ad-  monition.  &quot;Your  chief  trouble  is  that  you  are  too  mushy,  too  soft-  hearted.  Be  on  the  alert  for  sharpers,  persons  with  oily  tongues  seek-  ing  to  fleece  you.  Also  guard  against  rheuma-  tism  and  fried  foods.&quot;  I  promised  to  be  vigilant,  and  in-  quired  what  course  the  planets  dictated  in  my  present  dilemma-ought  I  press  on  to  Seychelles  orreturn  to  New  York?  Mr.  Ghanef  became  wildly  animated  at  the  disclosure  thatI  was  a  play-  wright.  That  was  his  avocation,  he  ex-  claimed;  in  fact,  he  had  just  completed  two  acts  of  a  comedy  he  would  be  de-  lighted  to  read  to  me-a  rattling  good  love  story  that  poked  fun  at  various  human  foibles.  Unluckily,  I  was  too  dis-  traught  to  hold  still  for  a  Hindu  version  of  &quot;Springtime  for  Henry,&quot;  andwas  forced  to  decline.  Mr.  Ghanef  accepted  my  refusal  with  a  fatalistic  shrug.  Per-  haps  it  might  clarify  the  decision,  he  suggested,  if  I  chanced  to  have  a  hand-  writing  specimen  from  someone  con-  nected  with  my  play.  It  happened  that  I  did-a  grisly  picture  postcard  Toby  Swingler  had  sent  me  in  [REDACTED]  of  Doris  Day  costumed  as  a  torero,  with  a  rose  in  her  teeth,  A  frown  corrugated  the  seer's  fore-  head  as  he  studied  Toby's  inscription.  &quot;Whoever  wrote  this  is  a  trickster,  a  double-dealer,&quot;  he  declared  flatly.  &quot;With  every  hour  that  passes,  he  betrays  you  anew.  Chastise  him,  smite him  hip  and  thigh,  cast  him  into  the  sea  with  a  rock  attached  to  his  feet.&quot;  A  suspicion  began  to  take  form  in  my  mind  that  Mr.  Ghanef's  pipeline  to  the  infinite  was  clogged,  and,  tender-  ing  him  his  fee  of  forty-three  East  Afri-  can  shillings,  or  roughly  six  dollars,  I  cleared  off.  That  evening,  over  a  sun-  downer  at  the  New  Stanley  with  some  British  residents  of  the  colony,  I  re-  counted  my  experience.  To  a  man,  they  chided  me  for  having  impulsively  sought  out  a  mountebank.  The  ranking  astrologer  south  of  the  [REDACTED],  the  fore-  most  wizard  in  the  protectorate,  was  Ibn  Momzeyrim,  an  oracle  whose  pre-  science  was  so  uncanny  that  persons  from  every  walk  of  society,  even  gov-  ernment  Ministers,  flocked  to  consult  him.  Several  Greek  and  Syrian  million-  aires,  uncommonly  flinty  types,  had  been  known  to  risk  fortunes  on  the  basis  of  his  predictions,  andno  prospective  bride  would  dare  approach  the  altar  without  his  prenuptial  horoscope.  With  such  a  clear  mandate,  hesita-  tion  was  unthinkable,  and  the  next  morning  found  me  nervously  awaiting  my  turn  in  Ibn  Momzeyrim's  outer  of-  fice  at  Vedic  House.  The  atmosphere  was  humdrum,  totally  devoid  of  any  suggestion  of  the  sor-  cerer's  cave;  the  ma-  tronly  Hausfrau  in  printed  cotton,  her  scrawny  husband,  and  the  two  giggling  school-  girls  were  straight  out  of  any  dentist's  ante-  room  in  the  States.  In  due  course,  all  of  them  were  processed,  and  a  high-pitched,  impatient  voice  inside  bade  me  enter.  Mr.  Momzeyrim,  a  plump,  button-eyed  Pakistani,  was  seated  behind  a  modernique  kitchen  table  with  a  Formica  surface,  in  an  ambience  where  every  visible  object  was  syn-  thetic.  He  wore  a  pair  of  outsize  spectacles  with  fake  tortoise-shell  rims  and  was  garbed  in  a  suit  of  some  Dacron-  like  material,  from  the  breast  pocket  of  which  three  ball-point  pens  protruded.  A  blue  plas-  tic  vase  containing  a  red  plastic  tulip  stood  at  his  elbow,  and  he  was  bawling  into  a  Bakelite  .&quot;?  phone.  &quot;No,  no,  I  abso-  " b"lutely  forbid  you!&quot;  he  was  shouting.  &quot;Hold  on  to  those  securities  till  Mercury  re-  places  Saturn-do  you  hear?  Otherwise  you  court  bank-  ruptcy,  ruin,  starvation!&quot;  He  slammed  down  the  receiver  and  pointed  at  me.  &quot;What  time  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Why-er-ten  pastelev-  en,&quot;  I  said,  glancing  at  my  watch.  &quot;Wrong,&quot;  he  returned  triumphantly.  &quot;Only  eight  past,  and  those  two  minutes  make  all  the  difference  in  a  horoscope.  Everything  in  your  past,  present,  and  future  is  governed  by  time,  my  friend.  Give  me  the  exact  hour  and  date  you  were  born.&quot;  In  the  next  quarter  of  an  hour,  I  learned  a  number  of  things  about  myself  I  had  never  suspected.  I  had  a  strongly  sensual  nature  and  tended  to  throw  my  cap  over  the  windmill  at  the  sight  of  a  pretty  ankle.  The  second  of  my  wives-I  appeared  to  have  been  married  three  times-had  deceived  me  re-  peatedly  with  a  rake  on  the  order  of  Blazes  Boylan,  sportinga  black  beard.  The  four  coming  years,  it  seemed,  promised  to  be  the  most  fruitful  in  my  life.  I  was  slated  to  amass  wealth  beyond  the  dreams  of  avarice-provid-  ed,  of  course,  I  kept  a  tight  rein  on  my  satyriasis  and  stuck  to  my  knitting.  Throughout  the  session,  at  intervals  of  thirty  seconds,  phone  calls  poured  in  from  a  wide  spectrum  of  folk-horse-  players,  seafarers  contemplating  voy-  ages,  the  lovesick  of  both  sexes,  and  merchants  convinced  that  their  partners  were  mulcting  them.  To  all  of  them  Momzeyrim  snapped  out  advice  with-  out  an  instant's  hesitation,  but  when  I  broached  my  own  immediate  problem,  he  countered  with  the  windiest  of  generalities.  A  dark  Sagittarian-not  unlike  Toby  Swingler,  from  his  descrip-  tion-was  exerting  a  malign  influence  over  my  future.  Notwithstanding,  I  must  pretend  to  accede  to  his  wishes  until  [REDACTED]  was  in  the  ascendant,  when  I  should  be  amply  revenged.  In  view  of  the  urgent  circumstances,  I  implored  Momzeyrim  to  give  me  more  specific  guidance.  &quot;That's  what  everyone  wants,&quot;  he  said  peevishly.  &quot;What  business  are  you  in?&quot;  I  decided  that  if  he  was  as  clairvoyant  as  represented,  it  was  up  to  him  to  find  out.  &quot;Well-l-1.&quot;  I  hesitated.  &quot;It's  kind  of  related  to  the  theatre.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  he  said,  closing  his  eyes  in  concentration.  &quot;I  see  row  on  row  of  chairs  full  of  people  clapping.  Oh,  yes  indeed,  we  have  a  dandy  success  here-  cornucopias  full  of  money,  steam  yachts,  female  caresses  galore.  But  wait  a  moment-what  is  this'  All  is  changed.  'The  people  have  disap-  peared-only  the  chairs  are  left.  Yes,  and  some  scenery  being  lifted  into  lor-  ries.  .  .  .  What  is  this  legend  I  read?  It  says  'Cain's  Warehouse.&quot;  .  .  .&quot;  He  was  bent  on  describing  a  few  other  things  he  saw,  but  I  cut  short  his  balderdash.  I  had  suddenly  had  a  belly-  ful  of  their  auguries-of  Mohandas  Ghanef  and  Ibn  Momzeyrim  and  the  whole  blasted  lot.  After  all,  why  should  I  hire  Indian  fakirs  to  dream  up  disasters  for  me  when  I  was  perfectly  capable  of  doing  it  myself?  I  knew  now  where  my  duty  lay-not  on  an  island  paradise  eating  lotus  but  patrolling  Times  Square,  where  I  could  keep  an  eye  on  chisellers  named  Toby  Swingler  who  betrayed  a  man  the  moment  he  turned  his  back.  I  nipped  around  the  corner  to  the  shipping  office,  traded  my  Indian  Ocean  ticket  for  one  to  New  York,  and  left  on  the  wings  of  the  morning.  Dreaming  when  dawn's  left  hand  is  in  the  sky,  I  sometimes  wonder  whether  I'll  ever  get  to  visit  Seychelles.  Maybe  I  ought  to  look  up  a  really  reliable  fortune-teller-someone  like  Madame  Myosotis,  say-and  see  what  the  future  holds."