 b"EDWARD  looked  at  his  red  beard  E  in  the  tableknife.  Then  Edward  and  Pia  went  to  [REDACTED],  to  the  farm,  In  the  mailbox  Pia  found  a  check  for  Willie  from  the  government  of  [REDACTED].  It  was  for  twenty-three  hun-  dred  crowns  and  had  a  rained-on  look.  Pia  put  the  check  in  the  pocket  of  her  brown  coat.  Pia  was  pregnant.  In  Lon-  don  she  had  been  sick  every  day.  In  [REDACTED]  Pia  and  Edward  had  seen  the  Marat/Sade  at  the  Aldwych  Theatre.  Edward  bought  a  bottle  of  white  stuff  for  Pia  in  [REDACTED].  It  was  supposed  to  make  her  stop  vomiting.  Edward  walked  out  to  the  wood  barn  and  broke  up  wood  for  the  fire.  Snow  in  patches  lay  on  the  ground  still.  Pia  wrapped  cabbage  leaves  around  chopped  meat.  She  was  still  wearing  her  brown  coat.  Willie's  check  was  still  in  the  pocket.  It  was  still  Sunday.  &quot;What  are  you  thinking  about?&quot;  Edward  asked  Pia  and  she  said  she  was  thinking  about  Willie's  hand.  Wil-  lie  had  hurt  his  hand  in  a  machine  in  a  factory  in  Markaryd.  The  check  was  for  compensation.  Edward  turned  away  from  the  win-  dow.  Edward  received  a  cable  from  his  wife  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;Many  happy  birthdays,&quot;  the  cable  said.  He  was  thirty-  four.  His  father  was  in  the  hospital,  His  moth-  er  was  in  the  hospi-  tal.  Pia  wore  white  plastic  boots  with  her  brown  coat.  When  Ed-  ward  inhaled  sharp-  ly-a  sharp  intake  of  breath-they  could  hear  a  peculiar  noise  in  his  chest.  Edward  inhaled  sharply.  Pia  heard  the  noise.  She  looked  up.  &quot;When  will  you  go  to  the  doctor?&quot;  &quot;I  have  to  get  some-  thing  to  read,&quot;  Edward  said.  &quot;Something  in  English.&quot;  They  walked  to  Markaryd.  Pia  wore  a  white  plastic  hat.  At  the  train  station  they  bought  a  Life  magazine  with  a  gold-painted  girl  on  thecover.  &quot;Shall  we  eat  something?&quot;  Edward  asked.  Pia  said  no.  They  bought  a  crowbar  for  the  farm.  Pia  was  sick  on  the  way  back.  She  vomited  into  a  ditch.  Pia  and  Edward  walked  the  streets  of  [REDACTED].  They  were  hungry.  Edward  wanted  to  go  to  bed  with  Pia  but  she  didn't  feel  like  it.  &quot;There's  something  wrong,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'The  wood  isn't  catching.&quot;  &quot;It's  too  wet,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;perhaps.&quot;  &quot;I  Zxow  it's  too  wet,&quot;  Ed-  ward  said.  He  went  out  to  the  wood  barn  and  broke  up  more  wood.  He  wore  a  leather  glove  on  his  right  hand.  Pia  told  Edward  that  she  had  been  raped  once,  when  she  was  twenty-two,  in  the  Botanical  Gardens.  &quot;The  man  that  raptured  me  hasa  shop  by  the  Round  Tower.  Still.&quot;  Edward  walked  out  of  the  room.  Pia  looked  after  him  placidly.  Edward  re\xc3\xa9ntered  the  room.  &quot;How  would  you  like  to  have  some  43616e616461ern  fried  chicken?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;It's  the  most  marvellous-tasting  thing  in  the  world,  Tomorrow  I'll  make  some.  Don't  say  'rapture.'  In  English  it's  'rape.'  What  did  you  do  about  it?&quot;  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  Pia  said.  Pia  wore  green  rings,  dresses  with  green  sleeves,  a  green  velvet  skirt. Edward  put  flour  in  a  paper  bag  and  then  the  pieces  of  chicken,  which  had  been  dipped  in  milk.  Then  he  shook  the  paper  bag  violently.  He  stood  behind  Pia  and  tickled  her.  Then  he  hugged  her  tightly.  But  she  didn't  want  to  go  to  bed.  Edward  decided  that  he  would  never  go  to  bed  with  Pia  again.  The  telephone  rang.  It  was  for  Fru  Schmidt.  Edward  explained  that  Fru  Schmidt  was  in  Rome,  that  she  would  return  in  three  months,  that  he,  Ed-  ward,  was  renting  the  flat  from  Fru  Schmidt,  that  he  would  be  happy  to  make  a  note  of  the  caller's  name,  and  that  he  would  be  delighted  to  call  this  note  to  the  attention  of  Fru  Schmidt  when  she  returned,  from  Rome,  in  three  months.  Pia  vomited.  Pia  lay  on  the  bed  sleeping.  Pia  wore  a  red  dress,  green  rings  on  her  fingers.  Then  Edward  and  Pia  went  to  the  cinema  to  see  an  Eddie  Constantine  picture.  The  film  was  very  funny.  Eddie  Constantine  broke  up  a  great  deal  of  furniture  chasing  international  bad  guys.  Edward  read  two  books  he  had  already  read.  He  didn't  remember  that  he  had  read  them  until  he  reached  the  last  page  of  each.  Then  he  read  four  paperback  mysteries  by  Ross  Macdonald.  They  were  excellent.  He  felt  slightly  sick.  Pia  walked  about  withher  hands  clasped  together  in  front  of  her  chest,  her  shoulders  bent.  &quot;Are  you  cold?&quot;  Edward  asked.  &quot;What  are  you  thinking  about?&quot;  he  asked  her,  and  she  said  she  was  thinking  about  Amboise,  where  she  had  contrived  to  get  locked  in  a  chateau  after  visiting  hours.  She  was  also  thinking,  she  said,  about  the  green-and-gold  wood-  en  horses  they  had  seen  in  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  would  like  enormous-  ly  to  have  one  for  this  flat,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Even  though  the  flat  is  not  ours.&quot;  Edward  asked  Pia  if  she  felt  like  mak-  ing  love  now.  Pia  said  no.  It  was  Sunday.  Ed-  ward  went  to  the  bak-  ery  and  bought  bread.  Then  he  bought  milk.  Then  he  bought  cheese  and  the  Sun-  " b"day  newspaper,  which  he  couldn't  read.  Pia  was  asleep.  Edward  made  cof-  fee  for  himself  and  looked  at  the  pictures  in  the  news-  paper.  Pia  woke  up  and  groped  her  way  to  the  bath-  room.  She  vomited.  Ed-  ward  bought  Pia  a  white  dress.  Pia  made  herself  a  necklace  of  white  glass  and  red  wood  beads.  Edward  worried  about  his  drinking.  Would  there  be  enough  gin?  Enough  ice?  He  went  out  to  the  kitchen  and  looked  at  the  bottle  of  Gor-  don's  gin.  Two  inches  of  gin.  pwaArp  and  Pia  went  to  [REDACTED]  on  the  train.  Pia's  father  thrust  flow-  ers  through  the  train  win-  dow.  The  flowers  were  wrapped  in  green  paper.  Ed-  ward  and  Pia  climbed  into  the  Mercedes-Benz  taxi.  &quot;Take  us  to  the  Opera  if  you  will,  please,&quot;  Edward  saidto  the  German  taxi-  driver  in  English.  &quot;Ich  verstche  nicht,&quot;  the  driver  said.  Edward  looked  at  Pia's  belly.  It  was  getting  larger,  all  right.  Edward  paid  the  driver.  Pia  wondered  if  the  Germans  were  as  loud  in  [REDACTED]  as  they  were  abroad.  Edward  and  Pia  listened  for  loudness.  Edward  received  a  letter  from  Lon-  don,  from  Bedford  Square  Office  Equipment,  Ltd.  &quot;We  have  now  com-  pleted  fitting  new  parts  and  adjusting  the  Olivetti  portable  that  was  unfortu-  nately  dropped  by  you.  The  sum  total  ofparts  and  labour  comes  to  \xc2\xa37.10.0  and  I  am  adding\xc2\xa31.00.0  hire  charges,  which  leaves  a  balance  of  \xc2\xa31.10.0  from  your  initial  deposit  of  \xc2\xa310.  Yours.&quot;  Yours.  Yours.  Edward  received  a  let-  ter  from  Rome,  from  Fru  Schmidt,  the  owner  of  the  flat  in  Frederiksberg  All\xc3\xa9.  &quot;Here  are  many  Americans  who  have  more  opportunities  to  wear  their  mink  capes  than  they  like,  I  guess!  I  wish  I  had  one,  just  one  of  rabbit  or  cat,  it  is  said  to  be  just  as  warm!  but  I  left  all  my  mink  clothes  behind  me  in  Denmark!  We  spend  most  of  our  time  in  those  horrible  subways-metros  which  are  like  the  rear  entrance  to  Hell  and  what  can  you  see  of  a  city  from  there?  Well  you  are  from  New  York  and  so  are  used  to  it  but  I  was  born  as  a  human  being  and  not  as  a-&quot;  Here  there  was  a  sketch  of  a  rat,  in  plan.  Kurt  poured     a  fresh  cup  of  coffee  for  Edward.  There  were  three  people  Pia  and  Ed-  ward  did  not  know  in  the  room,  two  men  and  a  woman.  Everyone  watched  Kurt  pouring  a  cup  of  coffee  for  Ed-  ward.  Edward  explained  the  American  position  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  The  others  looked  dubious.  Edward  and  Pia  dis-  cussed  leaving  each  other.  Pia  slept  on  the  couch.  She  had  pulled  the  red-and-brown  blanket  up  over  her  feet.  Edward  looked  in  the  window  of  the  store.  It  was  full  of  used  radios.  Edward  and  Pia  drank  more  sherry.  &quot;What  are  you  thinking  about?&quot;  he  asked  her  and  she  said  she  was  wondering  if  they  should  separate.  &quot;You  don't  seem  happy,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  don't  seem  happy  either,&quot;  he  said.  Edward  tore  the  cover  off  a  book.  The  book  cover  showed  a  dog's  head  surrounded  by  flowers.  The  dog  wore  a  black  domino.  Edward  went  to  the  well  for  water.  He  lifted  the  heavy  wooden  well  cover.  He  was  wearing  a  glove  on  his  right  hand.  He  carried  two  buckets  of  water  to  thekitchen.  Then  he  went  to  the  back  of  the  farmhouse  and  built  a  large  wooden  veranda,  roofed,  thirty  metres  by  nine  metres.  Fortunately  there  was  a  great  dealof  new  lumber  stacked  in  the  barn.  In  the  Frederiks-  used-radio  berg  All\xc3\xa9  apartment  in  Copenhagen  he  stared  at  the  brass  mail  slot  in  the  door.  Sometimes  red-and-blue  airmail  enve-  lopes  came  through  the  slot.  Edward  put  his  hands  on  Pia's  breasts.  The  nipples  were  the  largest  he  had  ever  seen.  Then  he  counted  his  money.  He  had  two  hundred  and  forty  crowns.  He  would  have  to  get  some  more  money  from  somewhere.  Maurice  came  in.  &quot;My  house  is  three  times  the  size  of  this  one,&quot;  Maurice  said.  Maurice  was  Dutch.  Pia  and  Edward  went  to  Maurice's  house  with  Maurice.  Mau-  rice's  wife  Randy  made  coffee.  Mau-  rice's  son  Pieter  cried  in  his  wooden  box.  Maurice's  cats  walked  around.  There  was  an  open  fire  in  Maurice's  kitchen.  There  were  forty  empty  beer  bottles  in  a  corner.  Randy  said  she  was  a  witch.  She  pulled  a  long  dark  hair  from  her  head.  Randy  said  she  could  tell  if  the  baby  was  to  be  a  boy  or  a  girl.  She  slipped  a  gold  ring  from  her  finger  and,  suspending  the  ring  on  the  hair,  dangled  it  over  Pia's  belly.  &quot;Ithas  to  be  real  gold,&quot;  Randy  said,  referring  to  the  ring.  Randy  was  rather  pretty.  PIA  and  Edward  andOle  and  Anita  sat  on  a  log  in  [REDACTED]  drinking  white  Algerian  wine.  It  was  barely  " b"drinkable.  Everyone  wiped  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  as  it  was  passed  from  hand  to  hand.  Edward  wanted  to  sleep  with  Pia.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Pia  said.  They  left  the  others.  Edward  looked  at  his  red  beard  in  the  shiny  bottom  part  of  the  kerosene  lantern.  Pia  thought  about  her  first  trip  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Edward  sat  at  the  bar  in  Le  Ectomorph  listening  to  the  music.  Pia  thought  about  her  first  trip  to  the  Soviet  Union.  There  had  been  a  great  deal  of  singing.  Edward  listened  to  the  music.  Don  Cherry  was  playing  trumpet.  Steve  Lacey  was  play-  ing  soprano  sax.  Kenny  Drew  was  playing  piano.  The  drummer  and  bass-  ist  were  Scandinavians.  Pia  remem-  bered  a  Russian  boy  she  had  known.  Edward  talked  to  a  Swede.  &quot;You  want  to  know  who  killed  Kennedy?&quot;  the  Swede  said.  &quot;You  killed  Kennedy.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Edward  said.  &quot;I  did  not.&quot;  Ed-  ward  went  back  to  Frederiksberg  All\xc3\xa9.  Pia  was  sleeping.  She  was  naked.  Ed-  ward  lifted  the  blankets  and  looked  at  Pia  sleeping.  Pia  moved  in  the  bed  and  grabbed  at  the  blankets.  Edward  went  into  the  other  room  and  triedto  find  something  to  read.  Edward  had  pe-  culiar-looking  hair.  Parts  of  it  were  too  short  and  parts  of  it  were  too  long.  Ed-  ward  and  Pia  telephoned  friends  in  an-  other  city.  &quot;Come  stay  with  us,&quot;  Ed-  ward  and  Pia  said.  &quot;Please!&quot;  Edward  regarded  Pia.  Pia  felt  sick:  &quot;Why  doesn't  he  leave  me  alone  some-     times?&quot;  Edward  told  Pia  about  Harry.  Once  he  had  gotten  Harry  out  of  jail.  &quot;Harry  was  drunk.  A  cop  told  him  to  sit  down.  Harry  stood  up.  Blam!  Five  stitches.&quot;  &quot;What  are  stitches?&quot;  Ed-  ward  looked  it  up  in  the  Dansk-Engelsk  Ordbog.  Edward  had  several  maneu-  vers  that  were  designed  to  have  an  effect  on  Pia.  One  of  them  was  wash-  ing  the  dishes.  At  other  times  he  was  sour  for  several  hours.  In  Leningrad  they  visited  Pia's  former  lover,  Paul.  The  streets  in  Leningrad  are  extremely  wide.  Paul  called  his  friend  Igor,  who  played  the  guitar.  Paul  called  Igor  on  the  telephone.  Pia  and  Paul  were  happy  to  see  each  other  again.  Paul  talked  to  Edward  about  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  There  was  tea.  Edward  thought  that  he,  Edward,  was  probably  being  fool-  ish.  But  how  could  he  tell?  Edward  washed  more  dishes.  Igor's  fingers  moved  quickly  among  the  frets.  Ed-  ward  had  drunk  too  much  tea.  Edward  " b"had  drunk  too  much  brandy.  Edward  was  in  bed  with  Pia.  &quot;You  look  beautiful,&quot;  Edward  said  to  Pia.  Pia  thought:  I  feel  sick.  In  Copenhagen  Ed-  ward  bought  The  Pen-  guin  English  Dictionary.  Sixteen  crowns.  Pia  told  a  story  about  one  of  the  princesses.  &quot;She  is  an  ar-  cheologist,  you  know?  Her  picture  comes  in  the  newspaper  standing  over  a  great  hole  with  her  end  sticking  up  in  the  air.&quot;  Pia's  little  brother  wore  a  black  turtleneck  sweater  and  sang  &quot;We  Shall  Overcome.&quot;  He  played  the  guitar.  Kurt  played  the  guitar.  Kirsten  played  the  guitar.  Anita  andOle  played  the  guitar.  Deborah  played  the  flute.  Edward  read  Time  and  Newsweek.  On  Tuesday  Edward  read  Newsweek,  and  on  Wednesday,  Time.  Pia  bought  a  book  about  babies.  Then  she  painted  her  nails  silver.  Pia's  nails  were  very  long.  Organ  music  played  by  Finn  Viderg  was  heard  on  the  radio.  Edward  suggested  that  Pia  go  back  to  the  university.  He  suggested  that  Pia  study  French,  Russian,  Eng-  lish,  guitar,  flute,  and  cooking.  Pia's  cooking  was  rotten.  Suddenly  she  wished  she  was  with  some  other  man  and  not  with  Edward.  Edward  was  listening  to  the  peculiar  noise  inside  his  chest.  Pia  looked  at  Edward.  She  looked  at  his  red  beard,  his  immense  spectacles.  I  don't  like  him,  she  thought.  That  red  beard,  those  immense  spectacles.  SAAB  jets  roared  overhead.  Edward  turned  off  the  radio.  Pia  turned  on  the  radio.  Edward  made  himself  a  dry  vermouth  on  the  rocks  with  two  onions.  It  was  a  way  of  not  drinking.  Edward  felt  sick.  He  had  been  reading  Time  and  News-  week.  It  was  Thursday.  Pia  saidto  Edward  that  he  was  the  only  person  she  had  ever  loved  for  this  long.  &quot;How  long  is  it?&quot;  Edward  asked.  It  was  seven  months.  Edward  cashed  a  check  at  American  Express.  The  girl  gave  him  green-and-blue  Scandinavian  money.  Edward  was  pleased.  Little  moans  of  pleasure.  He  cashed  another  check  at  Cook's.  More  money.  Edward  sold  Pia's  farm  for  eighteen  thousand   crowns.  Much  more  money.  Pia  was  pleased.  Edward  sold  Pia's  piano  for  three  thousand  crowns.  General  re-  joicing.  Klaus  opened  the  door.  Ed-  ward  showed  him  the  money.  Pia  made  a  chocolate  cake  with  little  red-  and-white  flags  on  the  top.  Pia  lay  in  bed.  She  felt  sick.  They  plugged  in  an  electric  heater.  The  lights  went  out.  Herr  Kepper  knocked  on  the  door.  &quot;Is  here  an  electric  heater?&quot;  Edward  showed  him  the  money.  Pia  hid  the  electric  heater.  Edward  watched  the  brass  slot  on  the  door.  Pia  read  to  Edward  from  the  newspaper.  She  read  a  story  about  four  Swedes  sent  to  prison  for  rapture.  Ed-  ward  asked  Pia  if  she  wanted  to  make  love.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  Edward  said  something  funny.  Pia  tried  to  laugh.  She  was  holding  a  piece  of  cake  with  a  red-and-white  flag  on  top.  Edward  bought  a  flashlight.  Pia  laughed.  Pia  still  didn't  want  to  go  to  bed  with  Ed-  ward.  It  was  becoming  annoying.  He  owed  the  government  back  home  a  thousand  dollars.  Edward  laughed  and  laughed.  &quot;I  owe  the  government  a  thousand  dollars,&quot;  Edward  said  to  Pia,  &quot;did  you  know  that?&quot;  Edward  laughed.  Pia  laughed.  They  had  another  glass  of  wine.  Pia  was  pregnant.  They  laughed  and  laughed.  Edward  turned  off  the  radio.  The  lights  went  out.  Herr  Kep-  per  knocked  on  the  door.  &quot;The  lights  went  out,&quot;  he  said  in  Danish.  Pia  and  Edward  laughed.  &quot;What  are  you  thinking  about?&quot;  Edward  asked  Pia  and  she  said  she  couldn't  tell  him  just  then  because  she  was  laughing. "