 b"A  young  Malayan  belly  dancer  became  apeeress  today  with  the  death  of  Lord  Moynihan,  a  former  chairman  of  Brit-  ain's  Liberal  party.  The  new  Lady  Moynihan  is  the  for-  mer  Shirin  Berry,  known  professionally  as  Princess  Amina,  who  was  married  in  1958  to  Anthony  P.  A.  Moynihan,  the  Baron's  son,  at  a  secret  Moslem  cere-  mony  in  Tangier,  [REDACTED].  A  year  later  they  were  married  again  in  [REDACTED].  Mr.  Moynihan,  a  devotee  of  rock  'n'  roll,  resigned  his  reserve  com-  mission  in  the  Brigade  of  Guards  and  played  the  bongo  drums  at  his  wife's  worldwide  cabaret  appearances.-The  Times.  AVE  you  ever  gazed  into  your  H  mirror,  girls,  and  longed  to  be  dazzlingly  lovely,  breathtak-  ingly  so,  no  matter  how  stiff  a  price  you  had  to  pay  for  pulchritude?  Of  course  you  have;  nor  do  you  reck  that  beauty  can  ofttimes  lead  to  woe.  And  yours  truly  has  good  reason  to  know,  for  when  the  gods  lavished  their  gifts  onme,  an  obscure  little  cipher  from  Scranton,  [REDACTED],  and  grafted  an  angelic  counte-  nance  onto  a  physique  divine,  I  sure  as  hell  thought  the  world  was  my  personal  oyster.  Which  I  don't  mean  that  my  success  was  handed  to  me  on  a  plat-  ter-far  from  it.  I  had  to  hustle  aplenty  to  climb  that  pinnacle.  Still  and  all,  I  doubt  whether  anybody  who  saw  Shir-  ley  Mazchstyck  in  pigtails  could  predict  that  out  of  this  drab  cocoon  there  would  one  day  emerge  a  gorgeous  butterfly  yclept  Sherry  Muscatel,  [REDACTED]'s  No.  1  stripteuse.  Or  that  the  latter  would  ever  blossom  forth  into  an  496e646961n  begum  with  the  power  of  life  and  death  over  her  subjects.  Let's  face  it--the  whole  thing  was  just  too  fab.  The  story  of  how  I  climbed  the  show-biz  ladder  to  its  topmost  rung  has  been  told  so  often  in  Sizzle,  Roister,  Smolder,  and  the  other  picture  maga-  zines  that  I  don't  have  to  burden  your  brain  with  it.  Suffice  it  to  say  that,  thanks  to  the  smartest  talent  booker  any  star  ever  had,  Solly  Positano,  I  zoomed  into  theace  spot  five  years  ago  and  stayed  there.  Why  do  I  command  top  money  and  pick  my  engagements,  you  ask?  Pure  and  simply  because,  un-  like  your  average  strip  act,  mine  has  no  taint  of  vulgarity,  As  Solly  ana-  lyzed,  I  give  them  something  artis-  tic  that  is  lacking  in  their  lives,  a  spectacle  they  wouldn't  be  ashamed  to  take  their  mother  or  sister  to.  'The  framework  that  my  specialty  is  built  on  is  the  four  seasons;  i.e.,  winter,  sum-  mer,  fall,  and  spring.  I  make  my  en-  trance  in  winter  garb,  bundled  up  in  mink,  and  after  gliding  around  to  the  &quot;Skaters  Waltz&quot;  peel  down  to  fur  briefies  and  matching  bra.  For  the  summer  bit,  I  wear  like  a  milkmaid  frock  of  gingham,  very  demure,  with  batiste  underthings  and  a  parasol.  I  love  working  with  a  parasol;  it  makes  everything  you  do  seem  so  much  more     AUGUST  28,  1965  sexy.  Anyhow,  such  is  the  basic  rou-  tine,  and  even  family-style  resorts  like  Grossinger's  and  the  [REDACTED]  consider  me  so  clean  and  educational  that  they  outbid  each  other  for  repeats.  From  Thanksgiving  on,  I  usually  play  the  Fontainebleau  or  Eden  Roc  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  alternating  with  the  Sands  or  the  Desert  Inn  at  Vegas.  Even  if  Uncle  Sam  and  Solly  take  out  a  big  chunk  be-  tween  them,  it  is  still  avery  nice  dollar.  Well,  one  fine  day  last  spring,  I  was  laying  off  for  a  week  at  the  556e6974656420537461746573na  in  New  York  when  Solly  phones  me-  a  megillah  about  this  inspiration  that  he  and  some  other  bookers  had  that  morn-  ing  in  the  steam  room.  They're  going  to  put  on  an  evening  of  old-fashioned  burlesque  in  [REDACTED].  There  used  to  be  a  house  up  there  called  the  Old  Howard  that  was  very  big  in  the  days  ofthe  Columbia  Wheel,  the  Gus  Sun  circuit,  and  the  Izzy  Herk  time,  but  nobody  remembers  it  now  except  a  few  elderly  gaffers.  &quot;Like  you  and  your  cronies,&quot;  I  said  fliply.  &quot;It'll  bomb,  Solly.  I  predict  you'll  lose  your  shirt.&quot;  &quot;Listen,  Shirley  girlie,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You've  got  the  best  chassis  in  the  business  and  you  can  shimmy  like  my  sister  Kate,  but  a  predictor  you're  not.  I  tell  you  the  public  will  eat  it  up.  Look  at  the  way  they  go  for  theold  cars,  ragtime  tunes,  et  cetera.  Anyway,  I  pen-  cilled  you  in,  so  make  a  note-the  four-  teenth  of  next  month  in  Beantown.&quot;  I'm  a  straightforward  person,  and  if  I'm  wrong  I'm  the  first  to  admit  it.  The  show  was  a  sensa-  tion;  we  killed  the  people,  we  fractured  them.  God  only  knows  where  they  dug  up  the  performers  from-the  baggy-  pants  Dutch  and  Hebe  comics,  the  soubrettes,  and  the  crum-  my  tenors  with  their  lantern  slides-but  they  didn't  miss  a  one.  And  the  material!  Hokey  old  sketches  like  &quot;Irish  Jus-  tice,&quot;  routines  like  &quot;Flugel  Street'&quot;-the  audience  was  rolling  in  the  aisles.  But  you  should  have  heard  them  whis-     tle  and  stomp  when  I  came  on,  and  the  reason  why  was  plain.  Most  of  them  were  collegians  from  Harvard  and  Tufts  which,  whilethey  bought  the  corn,  secretly  hungered  for  my  more  sophisticated  approach.  Well,  I  don't  have  to  tell  you.  By  halfway  through,  I  had  them  howling  like  wolves,  and  those  final  bumps  and  grinds  on  my  exit  did  the  trick.  The  stage  manager  had  to  ring  " b"down  the  house  curtain  so  the  show  could  go  on.  A  very  clever  team  of  ac-  robats,  Anaxagoros  Bros.  &amp;  Delphine,  followed  me,  but  they  didn't  get  a  thing.  The  kids  were  too  wrought  up.  There  was  such  a  crush  in  my  dress-  ing  room  afterwards  that  when  Solly  barged  in  with  this  Oriental-type  fellow  and  introduced  him  as  Lam  Chowdri,  a  Harvard  boy,  I  thought  it  was  a  rib  on  account  of  it  sounded  like  clam  chowder.  But  he  was  legit,  all  right-  a  real  dyed-in-the-wool  Hindu,  kind  of  good-looking  in  an  offbeat  way,  and,  from  what  Solly  said,  one  of  the  wealthiest  kids  in  496e646961,.  He  kept  rav-  ing  away  about  my  act  and  said  I  re-  minded  him  of  the  native  dancers  back  home  on  the  temple  friezes.  &quot;You  bet,&quot;  said  Solly,  who  can't  resist  a  gag.  &quot;She  freezes  our  temples  over  here  too,  don't  you,  Sherry?  She  turns  strong  men  to  like  stone.&quot;  I  could  see  from  Lam  Chowdri's  face  that  he  didn't  dig  but  was  too  polite  to  say.  Instead,  he  invites  me  to  have  supper  with  him,  and  while  I  don't  as  a  rule  go  with  civilians,  I  made  an  exception.  As  soon  as  I  heard  him  ask  the  maitre  d'  at  Locke-Ober's  for  a  private  room,  I  got  the  message.  Oho,  I  thought,  here  it  comes.  Lobsters  and  champagne,  and  for  dessert  a  wild  chase  around  the  table.  Well,  I  didn't  need  to  worry;  he  never  stepped  out  of  line,  not  once.  It  surprised  me  how  556e6974656420537461746573nized  he  was.  I  thought  Hin-  dus  spent  all  their  time  crouching  on  a  bed  of  nails  or  worshipping  a  cow,  but  not  he.  He  knew  the  name  of  every  pop  singer  on  TV,  he  was  posted  on  any  current  events  you  could  mention,  and  he  was  a  fluent  conversationalist.  I  also  found  out  something  those  gray-  beards  up  at  Harvard  didn't  know.  He  was  a  maharajah,  the  head  of  a  sec-  tion  in  496e646961  called  Cawnpone,  where  his  uncle,  a  regent,  was  minding  the  store  while  Lam  finished  his  education.  Well,  talk  about  your  whirlwind  courtships-this  one  was  a  tornado.  For  the  next  three  weeks,  not  a  day  went  by  without  caviar,  orchids,  little  fantasies  from  Cartier's  to  keep  your  wrists  cool,  and  special-delivery  letters  that  got  more  excited  on  every  page.  I  was  his  meadowlark,  his  bulbul,  his  fleet-footed  gazelle,  everything  but  his  water  buffalo.  At  the  time,  I  was  working  a  string  of  clubs  in  the  Mid-  west,  one-night  stands,  and  each  air-  port  I  got  to,  why,  I  was  met  by  a  chauffeur-driven  Rolls  that  Lam  had  laid  on.  (Somebody  gave  the  item  to  Lennie  Lyons,  but  they  had  the  wrong  496e646961n,  and  it  came  out  &quot;Cherokee&quot;  in-  stead  of  &quot;Chowdri.&quot;)  Anyway,  the  minute  my  tour  wound  up  in  New  York,  there  was  Lam  waiting  to  pop  the  ques-  tion,  and,  of  course,  he  has  to  pick  a  real  kookie  locale  like  the  Mayflower  Donut  Shop  at  2:30  in  the  morning.  Love  among  the  crullers.  But  he  was  so  sweetly  sincere  that  it  brought  a  lump  to  my  throat,  and  I  decided  to  lay  my  cards  on  the  table  too.  I  told  him  about  my  ex-husbands,  the  jockey  and  the  druggist-I  skipped  the  brassi\xc3\xa9re  manu-  facturer  because  we  split  out  after  two  weeks-and  how  my  search  for  hap-  piness  had  failed.  &quot;Oh,  moon  of  my  delight,&quot;  he  says,  grabbing  my  hands.  &quot;Life  has  bruised  your  wings,  my  little  shama  thrush.  All  I  ask  is  a  simple  boon.  Let  me  spend  the  rest  of  my  life  catering  to  your  smallest  whim.&quot;  No  woman  can  resist  that  kind  of  a  pitch,  especially  if  it's  a  maharajah  talk-  ing,  and  twelve  hours  later  a  j.p.  in  [REDACTED]  tied  the  knot.  I  wanted  to  call  Solly  right  away  so  as  to  give  Earl  Wilson  an  exclusive,  but  Lam  talked  me  out  of  it.  He  said  we  had  to  keep  it  dark  for  a  month,  till  he  finished  Har-  vard,  and  then  he  would  stage  a  big  ceremony  in  Cawnpone,  with  painted  elephants  and  sword  swallowers  and  the  whole  tzimmas.  Well,  that  was  a  bringdown  for  me,  natch,  because  I  had  visions  of  sweeping  into  Sardi's  East,  everyone  kowtowing  and  mur-  muring,  &quot;Good  evening,  Highness.  My,  what  a  gorgeous  gold  sari.&quot;  Still,  rather  than  launch  our  honeymoon  with  a  spat,  I  made  like  I  was  ecstatic  over  the  idea,  and  Lam  slipped  the  judge  a  deuce  to  button  up  to  the  press.  Everything  was  peachy  keen-so  I  thought.  It  was  like  two  days  after  he  went  back  to  [REDACTED]  that  I  got  my  first  jolt.  I  walk  in  the  flat  one  night  from  [REDACTED],  where  I'm  headlining  the  show  at  the  Migraine  Room  of  the  Hotel  Winograd,  in  [REDACTED],  and  there's  my  royal  master,  lock,  stock,  and  baggage.  He's  quit  college  because  he  can't  stand  being  separated,  but  that's  only  for  openers.  The  real  wallop-are  you  ready?-is  that  he's  gone  and  re-  nounced  his  throne  because  it  would  always  stand  between  us.  From  here  in,  he's  devoting  himself  full  time  to  my  career,  and,  in  fact,  he's  dreamed  up  a  way  to  weave  himself  into  my  act.  I  was  so  flabbergasted  I  could  hardly  talk.  &quot;Wait  a  minute,  Buster,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;A  maharajah  can't  quit  like  a  short-  order  cook.  Don't  you  have  to  go  back  to  496e646961  to  renounce  your  title?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  renounced  it  on  the  phone,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  that's  only  a  detail.  Lis-  ten  to  my  idea  for  our  new  act.&quot;  In  my  turmoil,  I  didn't  follow  too  closely,  but  the  drehdel  was  that  he  would  be  costumed  like  an  496e646961n  snake  charmer,  in  a  turban  and  a  diaper,  kneeling  on  the  floor  in  front  of  this  large  basket  and  playing  a  flute.  And  pretty  soon,  after  the  ap-  plause  for  his  solo  dies  down,  out  of  " b"the  basket  would  come  you-know-who  andgo  into  her  number.  Except  that  it  wouldn't  be  a  strip  exactly,  more  of  a  slow  cooch.  Well,  I  knew  I  couldn't  handle  the  situation  alone,  soI  ran  to  a  guy  whose  business  was  trouble-viz.  and  to  wit,  Solly-and  spilled  the  whole  story.  I  must  say  he  was  a  doll.  Never  a  word  of  criticism;  only  trying  to  be  helpful.  He  came  up  with  a  solution  pronto.  &quot;I  got  the  perfect  identity  for  him,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;A  candy  butcher.  In  between  your  changes,  he  circulates  around  the  floor  with  an  old-fashioned  spiel:  Ladies  and  gents,  if  I  may  have  your  kind  attention.  Introducing  [REDACTED]'s  biggest-selling  candy,  Greenfield's  Con-  fections,  a  prize  in  each  and  every  package.  It's  a  great  comedy  touch,  Shirl,  and  we  can  get  a  million  tieups  with  Loft's,  Whitman,  whoever.  And  think  of  the  publicity!  Sweets  for  the  Sweetie.  Ex-Maharajah  Vends  Bonbons  for  Love.  &quot;  It  sounded  like  a  natural,  but  when  I  sprang  it  on  Lam  he  blew  his  stack.  Nineteen  generations  of  royalty  would  revolve  in  their  grave  if  he  became  a  hawker.  Solly  was  a  cheap  vulgarian,  he  stormed,  and  then,  like  thet,  he  suddenly  has  another  brain  wave.  Why  not  let  him  represent  me  instead  of  Solly  and  save  all  that  commission?  I  almost  told  him  that  those  nineteen  generations  would  spin  like  a  Waring  mixer  if  he  went  into  the  agency  racket,  but  I  was  afraid  he  might  slap  me  across  the  chops.  When  those  Hindus  get  angry,  man,  it's  Amoksville.  So  I  pre-  tended  his  notion  was  marvy  but  I  needed  a  few  days  to  mull  it  over.  And  that  very  evening  Mr.  Nuroddin  checks  in  from  Cawnpone.  Mr.  Nuroddin  is  what  they  call  a  Parsee,  this  very  high-toned  sect  of  fire  worshippers  that  almost  every  one  of  them  is  a  rich,  influential  banker  or  merchant.  He's  the  family  lawyer  and  he's  been  sent  over  by  Lam's  uncle,  the  regent,  to  rescue  the  boy  from  my  coils.  Well,  the  scene  he  put  on  was  right  out  of  &quot;East  Lynne.&quot;  Within  two  minutes,  he's  using  words  like  &quot;adventuress,&quot;  and  when  he  brought  out  his  checkbook  and  asked  &quot;How  much?&quot;  I  really  let  him  have  it.  I  called  him  every  name  I  could  think  of,  I  threw  a  jar  of  Albolene  at  his  head,  and  I  made  such  an  uproar  that  he  ran  out  quaking  like  an  aspirin.  But  if  you  think  that  was  the  end  of  him,  you  don't  know  Mr.  Nuroddin.  He  starts  showing  up  at  a  ringside  table  every  performance,  sending  me  man-  goes  and  skirt  lengths  of  madras  and  mooning  around  till  after  my  late  show.   At  first  I  thought  it  was  like  a  ruse  to  break  up  Lam  and  I.  Then  I  realized  the  old  mudnik  is  serious,  for  God's  sake.  He's  carrying  a  torch,  but  he's  not  worshipping  i#-he's  idolizing  me.  I  chewed  him  out  good  and  proper.  &quot;Why  don't  you  act  your  age,  Nu-  roddin?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  ought  to  be  ashamed,  a  man  of  your  standing  in  the  legal  profession  behaving  like  a  stage-door  John.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  help  it,  O  beauteous  one,&quot;  he  snuffles,  wringing  his  hands.  &quot;To  me  you're  the  sun  in  the  morning  and  the  moon  at  night.  I  adore  you,  my  little  nightingale.&quot;  My  life  isn't  complicated  enough  already;  now  I  have  an  old  Parsee  mouthpiece  to  contend  with.  &quot;Listen,  Clyde,&quot;  I  said  to  him.  &quot;You  better  watch  out  or  you'll  be  wearing  a  silk  thread  around  your  larnix.  Lam's  get-  ting  suspicious-he  asked  me  when  you  were  going  back  home.&quot;  Then  the  stove  explodes.  &quot;I'm  not.  Never  again,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;I  just  sent  off  a  cable  to  Cawnpone  resigning  from  my  law  firm.  From  now  on,  every  ounce  of  my  being  is  devoted  to  serv-  ing  you.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  out  of  your  mind?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  about  your  family?  Don't  you  have  any  wives?&quot;  &quot;None  to  compare  with  you,  my  ringdove,&quot;  he  says.  I  was  beginning  to  feel  like  azoo.  &quot;Let  me  do  your  bid-  ding,  my  lovely  tigress.  Walk  onme,  tread  on  me.&quot;  " b"Well,  what  could  I  do?  I  told  Lam  I  needed  a  secretary  and  I  took  on  the  old  buzzard-  not  thata  stripper  has  that  much  paperwork,  but  like  Solly  said,  it  was  good  publicity.  I  guess  he  was  right;  Louis  Sobol  wrote  that  I  was  the  only  ecdysiast  on  record  with  a  Zoroastrian  aman-  uensis.  That  didn't  sit  so  well  with  Hubby,  Nuroddin  crowd-  ing  him  out  of  the  spotlight,  and  the  two  of  them  started  catfoot-  ing  around,  exchanging  these  vicious  little  digs-in  Hindi  yet.  If  it  was  in  Scrantonese,  which  I'm  fluent,  I  could  have  coped,but  they  drove  me  right  up  the  wall.  So  that's  how  matters  stood  when  Uncle  Nooj,  the  regent,  blows  in.  You'd  have  to  see  this  joker  to  believe  him-he's  right  out  of  &quot;The  Arabian  Nights&quot;  or  some  pageant  Sol  Hurok  imported.  A  skinny  little  man  with  a  big  bugle,  which  one  flange  has  a  diamond  the  size  of  your  pinkie  welded  into  it.  He  has  on  a  shift  embroidered  with  rubies,  and  around  his  neck  five  strands  of  pearls  like  Mary  Garden  or  Schumann-Heink  in  the  &quot;Victor  Book  of  the  Opera.&quot;  But  there  the  resemblance  ends;  he's  got  a  high,  squeaky  voice  like  a  pea-  nut  whistle  and  he  beams  it  straight  at  me.  Well,  brother,  you  could  write  the  dialogue.  I'm  Valerie  Vampire,  and  what  kind  of  a  hex  did  I  put  on  his  nephew  and  his  legal  eagle?  They  must  have  drunk  a  love  filter  I  prepared,  whatever  the  hell  that  is.  He's  going  to  annul  the  marriage  if  it  takes  Louis  Nizer's  weight  in  platinum,  and  in  the  meantime  he's  got  a  table  next  to  the  band  that  night  to  watch  me  work  my  voodoo.  Well,  do  I  have  to  spell  it  out?  It  was  love's  old  sweet  song,  and  I'm  the  gal  who  put  the  sex  in  sexagenarians.  As  I  ran  off  in  my  birthday  suit  with  the  peasants  yelling,  I  look  back  and  there's  Nooj  standing  on  the  table,  squealing  for  an  encore,  but  in  my  dodgeyou  have  nowhere  to  go,  as  they  say.  The  flowers  and  the  trinkets  start-  ed  arriving  on  schedule,  and  if  you  never  saw  an  emerald  the  size  of  an  Idaho  baked  potato,  neither  had  I.  I  don't  know  who  was  ruling  over  Cawn-  pone  while  Nooj  was  absent,  but  who-  ever  it  was,  they  kept  the  supply  lines  open.  Solly  used  to  come  by  nights  in  an  armored  car  to  haul  the  stuff  to  the bank.  You  can  imagine  how  Lam  and  Nuroddin  reacted  to  Nooj.  It's  a  won-  der  they  didn't  drop  a  krait  down  his  peplum  or  something.  And  the  topper,  of  course,  was  the  matin\xc3\xa9e  that  he  shows  up  in  a  business  suit  too  large  for  him  and  a  tweed  cap  cocked  over  one  eye.  He  looked  like  a  pinboy  I  used  to  go  around  with  in  Scranton.  &quot;I  have  a  very  startling  piece  of  news  for  you,  my  eaglet,&quot;  he  says,  undressing  me  with  those  goo-goo  eyes.  &quot;Don't  tell  me-let  me  guess,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  went  and  renounced  your  title.  You're  over  here  permanent  from  now  on.&quot;  His  jaw  dropped  with  such  a  clang  you  couldalmost  hear  it.  &quot;How  did  you  guess?&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  becoming  pretty   common  around  here.  Do  you  know  anything  about  how  to  use  Carbona?&quot;  &quot;I  never  heard  of  it,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  better  find  out,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;because  from  now  on  you're  in  charge  of  all  my  cleaning  and  pressing.  Here's  a  key,  and  you  can  use  the  locker  right  next  to  Lam  and  Nuroddin.  Good  luck.&quot;  That's  what  I  told  him.  But  I  was  the  one  who  needed  it."