 b"THE  two  main  characters  in  this  factual  short  story  I'm  about  to  tell  are  a  man  named  Ignatz  Sobolski  and  myself.  Mr.  Sobolski  is  the  hero.  But  because  I  then  knew-and  now  know  -very  little  about  him,  I  shall  be  forced  to  devote  more  space  to  myself  than  to  him.  This  will  not  be  hard  for  me  to  do,  for  I'm  a  self-cen-  tered  man,  though  perhaps  not  quite  so  self-centered  as  I  was  in  1925,  the  year  I  met  him.  I  have  never  heard  anybody  say  so,  but  it  has  just  occurred  to  me  that  to  every  one  of  us-the  young,  the  mid-  dle-aged,  and  the  elderly,  the  males,  the  females,  and  everybody  else-the  past  is  not  simply  beck  there  but  is  also  down  there.  The  past  doesn't  float.  It  doesn't  ascend.  It  has  never  achieved  weight-  lessness.  Even  when  we  lie  in  bed  at  night  before  turning  out  the  light,  and  stare  up  at  the  ceiling,  thinking  of  the  past,  our  minds  have  to  rebound  from  the  ceiling  and  take  a  downward  course  in  order  to  find  and  come  to  grips  with  memory-with  the  past.  And  how  can  one  describe,  from  the  point  of  view  ofthe  present,  what  one's  own  self  was  like  in  the  past?  Shall  I  say  that  in  1925  I  was  twenty,  that  I  was  emotional,  gifted,  and  tall  and  handsome,  with  Scottish-  American  blue  eyes  and  wavy  blond  hairthat  I  wore  lightly  treated  with  Vaseline  and  slicked  down  and  parted  in  the  middle  of  my  crowded  and  un-  educated  head?  Would  thatbe  fair  to  you?  Would  it  be  fair  to  me?  I  must  confess  I  don't  know.  I'm  not  trying  \xc2\xb0  so  much  to  be  fair-to  you  or  to  me-as  I  am  trying  not  to  be  false  to  anybody  in  this  true  story,  includ-  ing,  of  course,  Mr.  Sobolski.  The  past  is  not  only  not  weightless,  it  is  also  changeable.  It  has  many  moods.  For  example,  I  discover  thatI  must  now  tell  how  it  came  about  that  I  was  a  reporter  on  the  old  [REDACTED]  World  at  twenty-the  youngest  re-  porter  in  that  vast  city  room.  Having  made  this  discovery,  and  having  decided  to  face  it  courageously,  my  initial  grip  on  the  past  is  lost.  So  I  take  another  grip.  Mr.  Sobolski  is  forgotten.  Mr.  Frank  Sullivan,  the  humorist,  is  re-  membered,  and  with  him  is  remem-  bered  a  different  city-Atlantic  City,  New  Jersey-and  my  bob-haired,  fun-  loving  first  wife,  who  was  the  same  age     wo  sr.     as  I.  For  it  was  in  Atlantic  City  that  my  bride  and  I  were  spending  a  two-  week  honeymoon  in  the  late  summer  of  the  year  before  I  met  Mr.  Sobolski.  So,  to  be  accurate,  we  are  not  exactly  forgetting  Mr.  Sobolski.  He  doesn't  yet  exist,  because  we  are  here  in  the  year  of  1924,  not  1925,  and  my  bride  and  I  are  nineteen,  not  twenty.  Mr.  Sobolski  is  nowhere,  you  see,  because  I  haven't  yet  met  him:.  But  my  bride  and  I  are  at  Atlantic  City,  having  our  honeymoon  on  a  chintzy  expense  ac-  count  of  the  1924  variety  while  Ire-  port,  for  the  [REDACTED]  Daily  News-  still  another  city-the  progress  of  the  Atlantic  City  beauty  contest  of  that  year.  And  Frank  Sullivan  is  also  there,  covering  the  same  event  for  the  [REDACTED]  World.  Sullivan  was  my  hero  that  year.  But  I  don't  mean  to  imply  that  Sobolski  was  my  hero  in  1925.  Sobolski  be-  came-he  becomes-my  hero  only  now,  some  forty  years  later,  in  1965.  That  would  make  him  eighty-one  years  old  this  year.  For  I  did  ascertain  his  age  when  I  met  him,  in  1925.  I  learned  from  his  wife,  Mrs.  Sobolski,  that  he  was  then  forty-one.  I  gathered  other  facts  about  him,  and  about  her,  and  about  their  only  son,  Richard,  who  was  then  thirteen.  I  also  learned  the  Sobolski's  home  address  and  Mr.  Sobolski's  oc-  cupation.  'They  lived  at  187  Rivington  Street,  in  [REDACTED],  and  he  worked  as  a  tailor  at  a  tailor  shop  on  Canal  Street.  He  was  not  the  proprietor  of  the  shop.  Oh,  I  was  a  demon  for  facts  in  1925!  And  facts,  as  we  all  know,  can  be  confusing.  But  in  1924-we  have  stepped  down  here  again  now-  I  am  having  a  wonderful  time  in  At-  lantic  City  with  my  bride  and  with  Frank  Sullivan,  and  I  send  comic  pic-  ture  postcards  to  that  effect  to  friends  of  mine  in  [REDACTED]  and  Washing-  ton.  Tomy  greetings  I  append  the  phrase  &quot;Wish  you  were  here,&quot;  but  this  appendage  is  a  joke.  It  was  one  of  the  many  jokes  of  what  I  then  considered  to  be  my  generation.  It  was  Sinclair  Lewis's  joke  and  Franklin  P.  Adams'  joke  and  Ring  Lardner's  joke  and  H.  L.  Mencken's  joke.  All  these  men  were  one  generation  ahead  of  me,  but  I  didn't  care.  Their  generation  was  mine.  It  was  their  joke  and  my  joke  to  make  fun  of  clich\xc3\xa9s-to  make  fun  " b"of  everything  well  tried,  everything  that  was  accepted,  everything  that  was  established,  everything  that  was  said  and  done  by  the  generations  of  man-  kind  that  had  preceded  us.  For  this,  of  course,  was  the  very  middle  of  what  have  been  called  the  Roaring  Twenties,  although  I  and  a  great  many  other  people  who  lived  through  them  didn't  think  of  them  for  a  second  as  being  roaring.  It  was  more  as  if  the  twenties  screeched,  or  whined.  We  were  not  a  roaring  generation.  Take  it  from  me.  Neither  a  lion  nor  a  generation  roars  when  it  is  scared.  They  make  other  noises.  We  were  a  scared  generation,  but  like  any  other  scared  generation  we  tried  not  to  show  it.  We  danced  on  the  noisy  rooftops  of  our  hotels  in  all  our  cities.  We  drank  bootleg  liquor.  We  blustered.  We  talked.  We  went  to  [REDACTED].  Except  for  a  few  facts,  we  were  just  like  any  other  new  gen-  eration,  then  or  now.  We  had  for-  saken  a  lot  of  things,  and  we  had  been  forsaken  by  a  lot  of  things-among  them  religious  piety,  perhaps  even  re-  ligious  faith,  and  things  like  moral  be-  havior,  perhaps  even  moral  principles,  maybe  even  srorals!  We  were  on  a  new  road,  a  strange  road,  a  badly  lit  road.  There  is  a  sameness  about  new-  ness  that  never  becomes  dim  as  long  as  the  newness  is  new.  IN  the  early  months  of  that  year  of  1924,  while  I  was  courting  the  girl  who  was  to  become  my  first  wife,  I  was  also  courting  Frank  Sullivan.  He  was  slightly  tubby  and  a  Roman  Catho-  lic  and  I  was  a  lapsed  Presbyterian,  but  I  didn't  care.  I  loved  him,  but  I'd  never  met  him.  Still,  I  courted  him.  I  courted  him  by  sending  him  contributions  to  the  occasional  column  he  conducted  on  the  page  opposite  the  editorial  page  of  the  World,  when  F.P.A.  or  Heywood  Broun  were  ill  or  vacationing.  Mine  were  small  contributions  of  prose-a  paragraph  or  two  at  a  time,  and  hope-  fully  humorous.  Many  were  thrown  away  by  Sullivan.  Some  were  acknowl-  edged  but  not  printed.  And  once  in  a  while  a  few  were  printed,  with  my  large,  long,  crazy  two  names  at  the  end  for  me  to  stare  at  as  the  sun  rose  over  [REDACTED],  my  eyes  bulging  with  the  insanity  of  a  young  human  head  that  had  been  warmed  by  fame.  And  finally,  in  Atlantic  City,  when  my  bride  and  I  were  commencing  our  honeymoon,  I  also  got  to  know  the  man  I'd  been  courting.  You  can  see  what's  coming.  T  wo  men  and  a  girl.  The  girl's  true  name  was  Lois  Little  and  mine  was  what  it  is,  and  she  de-  cided  to  keep  her  own  name  even  after " b"we  were  married.  But  she  kept  her  own  name  not  because  she  didn't  like  mine  but  only  because  she  was  a  Lucy  Stoner.  Along  with  Lucy  Stone,  Lois  felt  she  might  take  a  great  many  things  from  her  husband  and  give  her  hus-  band  agreat  many  things  but  that  she  shouldn't,  in  the  interests  of  independ-  ence  for  women,  take  his  name  and  lose  her  own.  She  didn't  care  about  votes  for  women,  but  she  cared  about  their  independence.  Can  you  blame  her?  Anyway,  I  didn't  care.  In  fact,  her  stipulation  delighted  me.  It  gave  me  enormous  gratification  to  introduce  her  to  people.  &quot;This  is  my  wife,  Miss  Lois  Little.&quot;  It  made  me  feel  that  other  people  might  get  the  impression,  when  I  said  those  words,  that  Lois  and  I  were  living  in  sin.  And  what  is  sin?  Oh,  I  was  as  full  of  questions  then  as  I  am  now.  In  any  event,  Frank  Sullivan  seemed  delighted  when  I  timidly  introduced  myself  to  him,  and  even  more  delighted  when  I  introduced  Lois  to  him  that  evening  after  the  day's  stories  had  been  filed.  Sullivan  lives,  thesedays,  in  the  little  house  he  was  born  in  in  1892,  on  a  tree-grown  side  street  of  Saratoga  Springs,  [REDACTED],  a  community  he  might  be  said  to  be  the  duke  or  king  of.  The  blood  of  royalty  is  clearly  in  his  veins,  and  anybody  can  tell  at  a  glance  that  among  his  ancestors  were  kings  of  Ireland.  He's  exactly  the  same  fellow  in  1965  that  he  was  in  1924.  All  his  life  long,  he  has  been  a  people-loving  bachelor  with  a  quietly  wild  Celtic  view  of  life  that  shines  in  his  published  prose  and  has  made  hundreds  of  thousands  of  men  and  women  feel  that  they  know  him.  The  same  prose  shines  freshly  now  mostly  in  letters  he  is  kind  enough  to  write  to  his  old  friends  and  his  new  friends.  In  1924,  when  I  introduced  him  to  Lois,  I  knew  that  he  would  know  all  about  Lucy  Stoners.  Heywood  Broun's  first  wife  was  a  real  staunch  Lucy  Stoner,  having  kept  her  own  name,  too,  which  was  Ruth  Hale.  Sullivan  was  thirteen  years  older  than  I  was,  and  he  chuckled  and  kept  chuckling  about  Lois  and  me.  When  we  both  began  to  blush,  he  laughed  out  loud  and  told  Lois  it  was  just  that  she  was  so  young  and  so  pretty  to  bea  Lucy  Stoner  and  I  was  so  youthful  to  bea  husband.  And  we  finally  began  to  laugh  simply  because  Frank  was  a  wonderful  older  man,  and  because  his  chuckling  was,  then  as  now,  contagious.  I'm  sure  our  youth  helped  me  to  get  the  job  on  the  World,  which,  of  all  the  thousands  of  newspapers  then  in  circu-  lation  in  this  popeyed,  reading-mad" b"country,  was  the  one  I  most  wanted  to  be  associated  with.  The  paper  in  [REDACTED]  then  was  the  World,  although  there  was  a  Times  and  six  or  eight  others.  The  two  ofus  men  and  the  one  girl-Lois-went  around  together  and  ate  together  and  drank  together  after  we'd  assured  Frank  that  we  drank.  He  wanted  to  see  our  birth  certificates,  but  all  we  had  was  the  marriage  license  from  [REDACTED].  Lois  was  the  sister  ofa  newspaperman  named  Herbert  Little,  in  [REDACTED],  where  I'd  met  her,  and  it  turned  out  Frank  knew  him.  What  more  could  a  young  couple  want?  As  the  beauty  contest  dragged  on  and  all  the  reporters  filed  serious  or  glamorous  stories,  and  Frank  alone  filed  Awmorows  stories  on  it,  Frank  asked  me  why  I  didn't  come  to  [REDACTED]  and  get  a  job  on  the  World.  He  said  he'd  speak  to  Herbert  Bayard  Swope!  He  was  the  executive  editor  of  the  World,  andwas  married  to  Mrs.  Herbert  Bayard  Swope!,  who  was  no  Lucy  Stoner.  I  didn't  hear  anything  more  from  Frank,  so  not  a  great  many  weeks  later-by  that  time  it  was  De-  cember-I  telephoned  him  long  dis-  tance  from  a  drugstore  in  [REDACTED].  In  [REDACTED],  Lois  and  I  had  been  living  blissfully  in  an  alley  of  little  seventeenth-century  houses,  along  with  a  few  white  folks  and  lots  of  Negro  folks.  After  the  call,  I  went  to  [REDACTED]  on  the  [REDACTED]  Railroad  in  a  chair  car  and  saw  Swope!  He  had  red  hair.  After  some  discussion,  he  said  I  could  have  a  job  at  the  same  salary  I  was  getting  in  [REDACTED],  which  was  fifty  dollars  a  week,  and  I  thanked  him.  IT  was  an  icy  winter  Wednesday  the  day  that  happened-Wednesday  be-  ing  my  day  off-and  what  also  hap-  pened  was  that,  with  the  job  on  the  World  in  my  hands  and  with  my  hot  head  high  in  the  cold  air,  I  walked  in  delirium  out  of  the  gold-domed  Pulitzer  Building,  on  Park  Row  in  lower  Man-  hattan,  close  to  City  Hall,  and  my  feet  went  out  from  under  me  and  I  fell  and  slid,  addled  with  laughter,  across  the  sidewalk  on  the  ice  and  into  the  gutter.  I  picked  myself  up  and  returned  as  fast  as  I  could  make  it  to  the  loving  arms  of  Lois,  in  [REDACTED],  and  two  weeks  later  we  were  settled  down  in  Green-  wich  Village  under  my  true  name  and  her  true  name,where  we  continued  to  live  in  what,  on  account  of  Lucy  Stone,  seemed  so  deliciously  like  sin.  It  wasn't  long  after  this  thatI  met  Ignatz  Sobolski.  I  methim  because  he  possessed,  for  a  moment  in  the  World's  time  and  for  a  lifetime  in  Sobolski's" b"time,  what,  to  the  World  and  to  me,  represented  something  called  human  in-  terest.  He  was  mixed  up  in  what  we  called  a  human-interest  story.  It  was  on  another  icy  day  that  same  winter  that  the  city  editor,  Mr.  James  Bar-  rett,  called  me  over  to  him  in  the  city  room  and  handed  me  a  sheaf  of  brief  items  reported  that  day  by  the  local  news  agency  called  City  News.  &quot;See  if  you  can  find  anything  in  here  that  might  make  a  'World  We  Live  In,&quot;  Mac,&quot;  he  said  to  me,  and  I  took  the  items  to  my  desk  and  pored  over  them.  On  the  first  page  of  the  second  section  of  the  World,  five  or  six  times  a  week,  you  see,  there  used  to  appeara  short  factual  story  under  the  standing  headline  &quot;This  World  We  Live  In.&quot;  Some  of  these  stories  were  humor-  ous  or  comical,  but  most  of  them  were  sad.  I  could  be  sadder  in  those  days  than  anybodyyou  ever  heard  of,  al-  though  I  was  sad  only  about  the  sad-  ness  of  other  people.  I  had  nothing  else  to  be  sad  about.  The  readers  of  the  World  seemed  to  like  these  sad  stories  about  these  other  people-people  who  were  worse  off  than  themselves.  There  was  never  much  news  in  the  stories-  only  human  interest.  They  were  about  small  things  that  happened  to  small  people.  It  was  astonishing  how  many  of  these  people  were  described  in  the  World  as  &quot;little&quot;  by  myself  and  other  anonymous  reporters  who  wrote  those  &quot;World  We  Live  In&quot;  stories.  &quot;A  little  old  lady  sat  last  night  in  the  one  dingy  room  she  occupies  up  the  dark  stairs  in  a  tenement  at  876  [REDACTED]  Street,  on  the  lower  East  Side,  her  small  hands  folded  in  her  lap,  her  tiny  feet  in  their  cheap  felt  bedroom  slippers,  while  .  ..&quot;  So  such  a  story  would  start  off  in  the  World.  Or,  &quot;Jakob  K.  Weinberg  is  a  tiny  old  man  with  a  wispy  mustache  that  emphasizes  his  thin  lips,  and  yester-  day  afternoon  there  issued  from  these  lips  a  sharp,  small  cry  of  agony  as  he  .  ..&quot;  And  the  readers  of  the  World  (and  other  newspapers),  having  been  offered  an  opportunity  by  these  human-  interest  stories  to  feel  sympathy  for  somebody  worse  off  than  themselves,  would  unhesitatingly  and  generously  feel  sympathetic-and  better  off.  And  then,  feeling  better  than  they'd  been  feeling  before  breakfast,  they  would  propel  themselves  into  the  mysteries  and  terrors  and  joys  and  satisfactions  of  urban  life  for  one  more  day.  What  the  City  News  Association  had  to  say  that  winter  day  in  1925  about  Ig-  natz  Sobolski  in  its  brief  item  was  that  Sobolski's  thirteen-year-old  son,  Rich-  ard,  had  been  struck  and  killed  by  a  truck  outside  the  tenement  in  which  the" b"Sobolskis  made  their  residence.  It  had  happened  early  in  the  afternoon.  The  boy  had  been  at  home  for  two  days  with  acold  in  his  head,  and  on  the  third  day,  when  Mrs.  Sobolski  told  him  he  could  go  out,  he  went  out  running.  But  it  seemed,  according  to  City  News,  that  the  father  hadn't  (at  three  o'clock  that  afternoon)  been  informed  of  the  loss  of  his  only  son.  Sobolski  was  reported  by  the  police  to  be  missing  from  the  tailor  shop  he  worked  in,  City  News  said.  The  proprietor  said  Sobolski  had  asked  for  an  hour  off  to  go  out  somewhere.  What  had  hebeen  doing  when  the  truck  struck  that  son  of  his?  City  News  didn't  say.  I  told  Mr.  Barrett  I  thought  there  might  be  a  &quot;World  We  Live  In&quot;  in  this  sad  occurrence  because  of  the  father's  mysterious  absence  from  the  tailor  shop.  &quot;O.K.,  Mac,&quot;  said  Barrett  busily,  &quot;see  what  you  can  do  with  it.&quot;  &quot;'Taxi?&quot;  I  asked,  knowing  the  answer  would  be  &quot;No,&quot;  and  it  was.  A  reporter  could  occasionally  wangle  taxi  expenses  out  of  the  World  if  there  was  a  hell  ofa  big  story-a  four-alarm  fire  or  a  good  murder-but  on  &quot;World  We  Live  In&quot;  pieces  you  walked,  took  a  subway  or  a  trolley  car,  or,  if  you  were  asrichas  I  thought  I  was,  you  simply  took  a  taxi  and  paid  for  it  your-  self  out  of  the  fifty  dollars  a  week.  I  put  on  my  overcoat,  with  the  green-  covered  American  Mercury  in  one  of  its  pockets,  put  my  soft  gray  felt  hat  on  my  head,  and  picked  up  my  hard  Malacca  walking  stick.  Below  the  gold  dome,  I  waved  a  taxi  to  the  curb  with  the  stick  and  gave  the  driver  the  Riv-  ington  Street  address.  What  the  hell?  I  still  had  three  dollars,  and  the  next  day  was  payday.  OURNALISM,  by  its-very  nature,  is  intrusive,  and  as  a  reporter  I  had,  between  the  ages  of  seventeen  and  nineteen,  become  as  intrusive  as  the  next  one.  I  knew  that  I  could  actas  if  I  were  a  shy,  sensitive,  and  sympa-  thetic  young  man  when  I  told  whoever  would  answer  my  knock  on  the  door  of  the  Sobolski  flat  that  I  was  a  reporter  from  the  World,  and,  if  necessary,  flash  my  green  police  press  card.  It  was  a  small  girl  who  opened  the  door,  and  she  was  a  cinch.  In  another  moment,  I  was  asking  Mrs.  Sobolski  all  kinds  of  questions  having  to  do  with  what  I  probably  called  her  great  loss.  The  police  and  the  undertaker  and  so  on  had  already  come  and  gone,  and  I  knew  that  to  Mrs.  Sobolski  I  just  seemed  to  be  another  kind  of  policeman  who  car-  ried  a  stick  instead  of  a  club.  She  was  thirty-cight  years  old.  She  was  a  good,  " b"big  Polish  woman,  but  in  my  mind  she  became  suitably  small.  Frail!  That  was  the  word!  I  made  a  mental  note  of  it.  The  little  girl  was  Richard's  younger  sister,  and  she  was  named  Anne-with  an  &quot;e,&quot;  because,  as  she  told  me,  she  liked  &quot;e's.  She  was  ten.  She  told  me  &quot;e&quot;  meant  &quot;Excellent,&quot;  and  that  Rich-  ard  got  this  mark  on  his  report  cards  at  school  all  the  time,  and  so  did  she.  No  weeping  was  going  on  in  that  tene-  ment  flat.  Mrs.  Sobolski  was  in  what  I  would  now  call  a  state  of  shock.  It  was  very  easy  to  interrogate  people  of  what-  ever  age,  of  whatever  class,  creed,  race,  or  color,  when  they  were  in  this  state,  as  I  knew  only  too  well.  I  got  all  the  facts  and  an  anecdote  or  two  about  Richard.  I  could  have  written  a  short  biography  of  him  if  I'd  known  how  at  the  time,  but  I  was  determined  to  put  off  writing  books  until  I  was  at  least  as  old  as  Joseph  Conrad  was  when  Ae  started  writing  books,  and  that  gave  me  twenty  more  years.  T  wo  whole  dec-  ades!  I  wanted  eventually  to  write  things  that  contained  both  comedy  and  tragedy,  like  Shakespeare.  Who  else?  I  got  the  note  of  comedy,  or  what  I  thought  was  comedy  at  the  time,  from  Mrs.  Sobolski.  It  seems  that  oneday  she  and  her  husband  and  Richard  (this  was  when  Anne  was  just  a  baby)  had  gone  over  to  Staten  Island  on  the  ferry-  boat  from  the  Battery  and,  after  a  long  walk,  had  found  a  stream  for  Richard  to  paddle  in.  He  was  four.  When  they  had  to  start  back  to  Rivington  Street,  Richard  obeyed  after  some  discussion,  and  thenhe  said  to  the  stream,  &quot;Never  mind,  little  stream,  I'll  be  back  to  paddle  in  you  again  sometime.&quot;  Ah,  Richard!  &quot;And  where  is  your  husband,  Mrs.  Sobolski?&quot;  &quot;He  was  going  after  lunch  to  buy  the  Meccano  set  for  Richard.&quot;  &quot;'Thank  you,  Mrs.  Sobolski.&quot;  At  last,  Mr.  Sobolski  arrived,  having  run  up  the  five  flights  of  dark  stairs.  'The  police  have  told  me,&quot;  he  said  to  his  wife.  &quot;This  gentleman  is  from  the  news-  paper,&quot;  she  said  to  him.  And  Mr.  Sobolski  looked  up  at  me  and  took  off  his  hat.  I  said  goodbye  to  the  three  of  them  and  left.  I  had  my  story,  and  I  also  had-although  I  didn't  know  it-a  memory  that  would  never  leave  me. "