 b"SHOTWELL  keeps  the  jacks  and  the  rubber  ball  in  his  attach\xc3\xa9  case  and  will  not  allow  me  to  play  with  them.  He  plays  with  them,  alone,  sitting  on  the  floor  near  the  console  hour  after  hour,  chanting  &quot;Onesics,  twosies,  threesies,  foursies&quot;  in  a  precise,  well-modulated  voice,  not  so  loud  as  to  be  annoying,  not  so  softas  to  allow  me  to  forget.  I  point  out  to  Shotwell  that  two  can  derive  more  enjoyment  from  playing  jacks  than  one,  but  he  is  not  interested.  I  have  asked  repeatedly  to  be  allowed  to  play  by  myself,  but  he  simply  shakes  his  head.  &quot;Why?&quot;  I  ask.  ''They're  mine,&quot;  he  says.  And  when  he  has  finished,  when  he  has  sated  him-  self,  back  they  go  into  the  attach\xc3\xa9  case.  It  is  unfair  but  there  is  nothing  I  can  do  about  it.  I  ache  to  get  my  hands  on  them.  Shotwell  and  I  watch  the  console.  Shotwell  and  I  live  under  the  ground  and  watch  the  console.  If  certain  events  take  place  upon  the  console,  we  are  to  insert  our  keys  in  the  appropriate  locks  and  turn  our  keys.  Shotwell  has  a  key  and  I  have  a  key.  If  we  turn  our  keys  simultancously  the  bird  flies-certain  switches  areactivated  and  the  bird  flies.  But  the  bird  never  flies.  In  one  hundred  thirty-three  days  the  bird  has  not  flown.  Meanwhile  Shotwell  and  I  watch  each  other.  We  each  wear  a  .45  and  if  Shotwell  behaves  strangely  I  am  supposed  to  shoot  him.  If  I  behave  strangely  Shotwell  is  supposed  to  shoot  me.  We  watch  the  console  and  think  about  shooting  each  other  and  think  about  the  bird.  Shotwell's  behavior  with  the  jacks  is  strange.  Is  it  strange?  I  do  not  know.  Perhaps  he  is  merely  a  selfish  bastard,  perhaps  his  character  is  flawed,  perhaps  his  childhood  was  twisted.  I  do  not  know.  Each  of  us  wears  a  .45  and  each  of  us  is  supposed  to  shoot  the  other  if  the  other  is  behaving  strange-  ly.  What  is  &quot;strangely&quot;?  I  do  not  know.  In  addition  to  the  45,  I  have  a  .38  that  Shotwell  does  not  know  about  concealed  in  my  attach\xc3\xa9  case,  and  Shotwell  has  a  .25-calibre  Beretta  that  I  do  not  know  about  strapped  to  his  right  calf.  Sometimes  instead  of  watching  the  console  I  pointedly  watch  Shotwell's  .45,  but  this  is  simply  a  ruse,  simply  a  maneuver.  In  reality  I  am  watching  his  hand  when  it  dangles  in  the  vicinity  of  his  right  calf.  If  he  decides  I  am  behaving  strangely  he  will  shoot  me  not  with  the  .45  but  with  the  Beretta.  Similarly  Shotwell  pretends  to  watch  my  .45  but  he  is  really  watching  my  hand  resting  idly  atop  my  attach\xc3\xa9  case,  my  hand  resting  idly  atop  my  attach\xc3\xa9  case,  my  hand.  My  hand  resting  idly  atop  my  attach\xc3\xa9  case.  In  the  beginning  I  took  care  to  be-  have  normally.  So  did  Shotwell.  Our  behavior  was  painfully  normal.  Norms  of  politeness,  consideration,  speech,  and  personal  habits  were  scrupulously  ob-  served.  But  then  it  became  apparent  that  an  error  had  been  made,  that  our  relief  was  not  going  to  appear.  Owing  to  an  oversight.  Owing  to  an  oversight  we  have  been  here  for  one  hundred  thirty-three  days.  When  it  became  clear  that  an  error  had  been  made,  that  we  were  not  to  be  relieved,  the  norms  were  relaxed.  Definitions  of  normality  were  redrawn  in  the  agreement  of  January  ist,  called  by  us  &quot;The  Agreement.&quot;  Uniform  regulations  were  relaxed,  mealtimes  no  longer  rigorously  sched-  uled.  We  eat  when  we  are  hungry  and  sleep  when  we  are  tired.  Considerations  of  rank  and  precedence  were  tempo-  rarily  set  aside-a  handsome  concession  on  the  part  of  Shotwell,  who  is  a  cap-  tain,  whereas  I  am  a  first  lieutenant.  One  ofus  watches  the  console  at  all  times  rather  than  two  of  us  watching  the  console  at  all  times,  except  when  we  are  both  on  our  feet.  One  of  us  watches  the  console  at  all  times  and  if  the  console  becomes  agitated  then  that  one  wakes  the  other  and  we  turn  our  keys  in  the  locks  simultaneously  and  the  bird  flics.  Our  system  involves  a  delay  of  perhaps  twelve  seconds  but  I  do  not  care  because  I  am  not  well,  and  Shotwell  does  not  care  because  he  is  not  himself.  After  the  agreement  was  signed  Shotwell  produced  the  jacks  and  the  rubber  ball  from  his  attach\xc3\xa9  case,  and  I  began  to  write  a  series  of  descrip-     29  tions  of  forms  occurring  in  nature,  such  as  a  shell,  a  leaf,  a  stone,  an  animal.  On  the  walls.  Shotwell  plays  jacks  and  I  write  descriptions  of  natural  forms  on  the  walls.  Aching  to  get  my  hands  on  them,  the  jacks.  SHOTWELL  is  enrolled  in  a  U.S.A.F.I.  course  leading  to  a  Master's  de-  gree  in  business  administration  from  the  University  of  [REDACTED]  (although  we  are  not  in  [REDACTED];  we  are  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  or  Idaho).  When  we  went  down  it  was  in  either  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  or  Idaho,  I  don't  remember.  We  have  becn  here  for  one  hundred  thirty-three  days  owing  to  an  oversight.  The  pale-green  reinforced  concrete  walls  sweat  and  the  air-conditioning  zips  on  and  off  erratically  and  Shot-  well  reads  &quot;Introduction  to  Market-  ing,&quot;  by  Lassiter  and  Munk,  making  notes  with  a  blue  ball-point  pen.  Shot-  well  is  not  himself  but  I  do  not  know  it.  He  presents  a  calm  aspect  and  reads  &quot;Introduction  to  Marketing&quot;&quot;  and  makes  his  exemplary  notes  with  a  blue  ball-point  pen,  meanwhile  controlling  the  .38  in  my  attach\xc3\xa9  case  with  one-  third  of  his  attention.  I  am  not  well.  We  have  been  here  one  hundred  thirty-three  days  owing  to  an  oversight.  Although  now  we  are  not  sure  what  is  oversight,  what  is  plan.  Perhaps  the  plan  is  for  us  to  stay  here  permanently,  or  if  not  permanently  at  least  fora  year,  for  three  hundred  sixty-five  days.  Or  if  not  for  a  year  for  some  number  of  days  known  to  them  and  not  known  to  us,  such  as  two  hundred  days.  Or  perhaps  they  are  observing  our  behavior  in  some  way-sensors  of  some  kind.  Perhaps  our  behavior  determines  the  number  of  days.  It  may  be  that  they  are  pleased  with  us,  with  our  behavior,  not  in  every  detail  but  in  sum.  Perhaps  the  whole  thing  is  very  successful,  perhaps  the  whole  thing  is  an  ex-  periment  and  the  experiment  is  very  successful.  I  do  not  know.  Or  perhaps  the  only  way  they  can  per-  suade  sun-loving  creatures  into  theirpale-green  sweating  reinforced  concrete  rooms  under  the  ground  is  to  say  that  the  system  is  twelve  hours  on,  twelve  hours  off.  And  then  lock  us  below  for  some  num-  ber  of  days  known  to  them  and  not  known  to  us.  Perhaps,  perhaps.  We  eat  well,  although  the  frozen  enchiladas  are  damp  when  de-  frosted  and  the  frozen  devil's  food  cake  is  sour  and  untasty.  We  sleep  uneasily  and  acrimoniously.  I  hear  Shotwell  shouting  in  his  sleep-  objecting,  denouncing,  cursing  " b"sometimes,  weeping  sometimes,  in  his  sleep.  When  Shotwell  sleeps  I  try  to  pick  the  lock  on  his  attach\xc3\xa9  case,so  as  to  get  at  the  jacks.  Thus  far  I  have  been  unsuccessful.  Nor  has  Shotwell  been  successful  in  picking  the  lock  on  my  attach\xc3\xa9  case  soasto  get  at  the  .38.  I  have  seen  the  marks  on  the  shiny  surface.  I  laughed,  in  the  latrine,  pale-  green  walls  sweating  and  the  air-con-  ditioning  whispering,  in  the  latrine.  I  ache  to  get  my  hands  on  them.  The  jacks.  I  write  descriptions  of  natural  forms  on  the  walls,  scratching  them  on  the  tile  surface  with  a  diamond.  The  dia-  mond  is  a  two-and-one-half-carat  soli-  taire  I  had  in  my  attach\xc3\xa9  case  when  we  went  down.  It  was  for  Lucy.  The  south  wall  of  the  room  containing  the  console  is  already  covered.  I  have  de-  scribed  a  shell,  a  leaf,  a  stone,  animals,  a  baseball  bat.  I  am  aware  that  the  baseball  bat  is  not  a  natural  form.  Yet  I  described  it.  &quot;The  baseball  bat,&quot;  I  said,  'is  typically  made  of  wood.  It  is  typically  one  metre  in  length  or  a  little  longer,  fat  at  one  end,tapering  to  afford  a  comfortable  grip  at  the  other.  The  end  with  the  handhold  typically  offers  a  slight  rim,or  lip,  at  the  nether  extremity,  to  prevent  slippage.&quot;  My  descriptionof  the  baseball  bat  ran  to  forty-five  hundred  words,  all  scratched  with  a  diamond  on  the  south  wall.  Does  Shotwell  read  what  I  have  written?  I  do  not  know.  I  am  aware  that  Shot-  well  regards  my  writing-behavior  as  a  little  strange.  Yet  it  is  no  stranger  than  his  jacks-behavior,  or  than  the  day  he  ap-  peared  in  black  bathing  trunks  with  the  .25-calibre  Beretta  strapped  to  his  right  calf  and  stood  over  the  console,  trying  to  span  with  his  two  arms  outstretched  the  distance  between  the  locks.  He  couldnot  do  it,  I  had  already  tried,  standing  over  theconsole  with  my  two  arms  outstretched-the  distance  is  too  great.  I  was  moved  to  comment  but  did  not  comment.  Comment  would  have  provoked  counter-comment,  com-  ment  would  have  led  God  knows  where.  They  had  in  their  infinite  pa-  tience,  in  their  infinite  foresight,  in  their  infinite  wisdom  already  imagined  a  man  standing  over  the  console  with  his  two  arms  outstretched,  trying  to  span  with  his  two  arms  outstretched  the  distance  between  the  locks.  Perhaps.  SHOTWELL  is  not  himself.  He  has  made  certain  overtures.  The  bur-  den  of  his  message  is  not  clear.  It  has  something  to  do  with  the  keys,  with  the  locks.  Shotwell  is  strange.  He  ap-  pears  to  be  less  affected  by  our  situa-  tion  than  I.  He  goes  about  his  business  stolidly,  watching  the  console,  studying  &quot;Introduction  to  Marketing,&quot;  bounc-  ing  his  rubber  ball  on  the  floor  in  a  steady,  rhythmical,  conscientious  man-  ner.  He  appears  to  be  less  affected  by  our  situation  than  I.  He  is  stolid.  He  says  nothing.  But  hehas  made  certain  overtures,  certain  overtures  have  been  made.  I  am  not  sure  that  I  understand  them.  They  have  something  to  do  with  the  keys,  with  the  locks.  Shotwell  has  something  &quot;in  mind.  Stolidly  he  shucks  the  shiny  silver  paper  from  the  frozen  enchiladas,  stolidly  he  stuffs  them  into  the  electric  oven.  But  he  has  something  in  mind.  But  there  must  be  a  guid  pro  guo.  I  insist  on  a  guid  pro  quo.  I  have  something  in  mind.  I  am  not  well.  I  do  not  know  our  target.  They  do  not  tell  us  for  which  city  the  bird  is  targeted.  I  do  not  know.  That  is  planning.  That  is  not  my  responsibility.  My  responsibility  is  to  watch  the  console  and  when  certain    eventstake  place  upon  the  console,  to  turn  my  key  in  the  lock.  Shotwell  bounces  the  rubber  ball  on  the  floor  in  asteady,  stolid,  rhythmical  manner.  I  am  aching  to  get  my  hands  on  the  ball,  on  the  jacks.  We  havebeen  here  one  hundred  thirty-three  days  owing  to  an  oversight.  I  write  on  the  walls.  Shot-  well  chants  &quot;Onesies,  twosies,  threesies,  foursies&quot;  in  a  precise,  well-modulated  voice.  Now  he  cups  the  jacks  and  the  rubber  ballin  his  hands  and  rattles  them  suggestively.  I  do  not  know  for  which  city  the  bird  is  targeted.  Shot-  well  is  not  himself.  Sometimes  I  cannot  sleep.  Some-  times  Shotwell  cannot  sleep.  Sometimes  when  Shotwell  cradles  me  in  his  arms  and  rocks  me  to  sleep,  singing  Brahms'  &quot;Guten  Abend,  gu?  Nacht,&quot;  or  when  I  cradle  Shotwell  in  my  arms  and  rock  him  to  sleep,  singing,  I  understand  what  it  is  Shotwell  wishes  me  to  do.  At  such  moments  we  are  very  close.  But  only  if  he  will  give  me  the  jacks.  That  is  fair.  There  is  something  he  wants  me  to  do  with  my  key  while  he  does  something  with  his  key.  But  only  if  he  will  give  me  my  turn.  That  is  fair.  I  am  not  well. "