 b"THE  family  always  reconvenes  in  the  meadow.  For  generations  it  has  been  traditional,  this  particu-  lar  New  Jersey  meadow,  with  its  great  walnut  tree  making  shade  for  the  tables  and  its  slow  little  creek  where  the  chil-  dren  can  push  themselves  about  in  a  rowboat  and  nibble  watercress  and  pre-  tend  to  fish.  Early  this  morning,  Uncle  Jesse  came  down  from  the  stone  house  that  his  father's  father's  brother  built  and  drove  the  stakes,  with  their  care-  fully  tied  rag  flags,  that  would  tell  the  cars  where  to  park.  The  air  was  still,  inert  with  the  post-dawn  laziness  that  foretells  the  effort  of  a  hot  day,  and  between  blows  of  his  hammer  Jesse  heard  the  breakfast  dishes  clinking  be-  neath  the  kitchen  window  and  the  younger  collie  barking  behind  the  house.  A  mild  man,  Jesse  moved  seru-  pulously,  mildly  through  the  wet  grass  that  he  had  scythed  yesterday;  when  the  stakes  were  planted,  he  walked  out  the  lane  with  the  REUNION  signs,  past  the  houses.  He  avoided  looking  at  the  houses,  as  if  glancing  into  their  wide  dead  windows  would  wake  them.  By  nine  o'clock  Henry  has  come  up  from  [REDACTED]  with  a  carful-Eva,  Mary,  Fritz,  Fred,  the  twins,  and,  in-  credibly,  Aunt  Eula.  It  is  incredible  she  is  still  alive,  after  seven  strokes.  Her  shrivelled  head  munches  irritably  and  her  arms  twitch,  trying  to  shake  off  assistance,  as  if  she  intends  to  dance.  They  settle  her  in  an  aluminum  chair  beneath  the  walnut  tree.  She  faces  the  creek,  and  the  helpless  waggle  of  her  old  skull  seems  to  establish  it-  self  in  sympathy  with  the  oscillating  shimmer  of  the  sunlight  on  the  slow  water.  The  men,  working  in  silent  pairs  whose  unison  is  as  pro-  found  as  blood,  carry  down  the  tables  from  the  barn,  where  they  are  stacked  from  one  year  to  the  next.  In  truth,  it  has  been  three  summers  since  the  last  reunion,  and  it  was  feared  that  there  might  never  beanother.  Aunt  Jocelyn,  her  gray  hair  done  up  in  braids,  comes  out  of  her  kitch-  en  to  say  hello  on  the  dirt  drive.  Behind  her  lingers  her  grand-  daughter,  Karen,  in  white  Levis  and  bare  feet,  with  something  shadowy  and  doubtful  about  her  dark  eyes,  as  if  she  had  been  intensely  watching  television.  The  girl's  father-not  here;  he  is  working  in  [REDACTED]-is  Italian,  and  as  she  matures  an  alien  beauty  estranges  her,  so  that  during  her  annual  visits  to  her  grandparents'  place,  which  when  she  was  a  child  had  seemed  to  her  a  green  island,  it  is  now  she  herself,  at  thirteen,  who  seems  the  island.  She  feels  sur-  rounded  by  the  past,  cut  off  from  the  images-a  luncheonette,  a  civic  swim-  ming  pool,  an  auditorium  festooned  with  cr\xc3\xa9pe  paper-that  represent  life  to  her,  the  present  reality.  The  air  around  her  feels  brown,  as  in  old  photo-  graphs.  These  men  greeting  her  seem  to  have  stepped  from  an  album.  The  men,  remembering  their  original  prej-  udice  against  her  mother's  marrying  a  Catholic,  are  especially  cordial  to  her,  so  jovially  attentive  that  Jocelyn  sud-  denly  puts  her  arm  around  the  girl,  ex-  pressing  a  strange  multitude  of  things:  that  she  loves  her,that  she  is  one  of  them,  that  she  needs  to  be  shielded,  suddenly,  from  the  pronged  kidding  of  men.  By  ten-thirty  Horace's  crowd  has  come  down  from  Trenton,  and  the  Oranges  clan  is  arriving,  in  several  cars.  The  first  car  says  it  dropped  Cousin  Claude  in  downtown  Burling-     JULY  24,  1965  ton  because  he  was  sure  that  the  second  car,  which  had  faded  out  of  sight  be-  hind  them,  needed  to  be  told  the  way.  The  second  car,  with  a  whoop  of  hilari-  ty,  says  it  took  the  bypass  and  never  saw  him.  He  arrives  in  a  third  car,  driven  by  Jimmy  and  Ethel  Thomp-  son  from  Morristown,  who  say  they  saw  this  forlorn  figure  standing  along  [REDACTED]  trying  to  thumb  a  ride  and  as  they  were  passing  him  Ethel  cried,  &quot;Why,  I  think  that's  Claude!&quot;  Zealous  and  reckless,  a  true  believer  in  good  deeds,  Claude  is  always  getting  into  scrapes  like  this,  and  enjoying  it.  He  stands  surrounded  by  laughing  women,  a  typical  man  of  this  family,  tall,  with  a  tribal  boyishness,  a  stubborn  refusal  to  look  his  age,  to  lose  his  hair.  Though  his  face  is  pitted  and  gouged  by  melan-  choly,  Claude  looks  closer  to  forty  than  the  sixty  he  is,  and,  though  he  works  in  [REDACTED],  he  still  speaks  with  the  rural  softness  and  slide  of  middle  New  Jersey.  He  has  the  gift-the  privi-  lege-of  making  these  women  laugh;  the  women  uniformly  run  to  fat  and  their  laughter  has  a  sameness,  a  quality  both  naive  and  merciless,  as  if  laughter  meant  too  much  to  them.  Jimmy  and  Ethel  Thompson,  whose  name  is  not  the  family  name,  stand  off  to  one  side,  in  the  unscythed  grass,  a  fragile  elderly  couple  whose  links  to  the  family  have  all  died  away  but  who  have  come  because  they  received  a  mimeographed  postcard  inviting  them;  they  are  like  those  isolated  corners  of  interjections  and  for-  eign  syllables  in  a  poorly  planned  crossword  puz-  zle.  The  twins  bring  down  from  the  barn  the  horse-  shoes  and  the  quoits.  Uncle  Jesse  drives  the  stakes  and  pegs  in  the  places  that,  after  three  summers,  still  show  as  spots  of  depressed  sparse-  ness  in  the  grass.  The  sun,  reaching  toward  noon,  domineers  over  the  meadow;  the  shade  of  the  walnut  tree  grows  smaller  and  more  notice-  ably  cool.  By  noon,  all  have  arrived,  including  the  Dodge  station  wagon  from  central  Pennsyl-  vania,  the  young  preg-  nant  Wilmington  cousin  who  marriedan  airline  pilot,  and  the  White  Plains  people,  who  climb  from  their  car  looking  like  clowns,  wearing  red-  " b"striped  shorts  and  rhinestone-  studded  sunglasses.  Hand-  shakes  are  exchanged  that  feel  to  one  man  like  a  knobbed  wood  carving  and  to  the  other  like  a  cow's  slippery,  unresist-  ing  teat.  Women  kiss,  kiss  stickily,  with  little  overlapping  patches  of  adhesive  cheek  and  clicking  conflicts  of  spectacle  rims,  under  the  white  unslant-  ing  sun.  The  very  insects  shrink  toward  the  shade.  The  eating  begins.  Clams  steam,  corn  steams,  salad  wilts,  butter  runs,  hot  dogs  turn,  torn  chicken  shines  in  the  savage  light.  Iced  tea,  brewed  in  for-  ty-quart  milk  cans,  chuckles  when  sloshed.  Paper  plates  buckle  on  broad  laps.  Plastic  butter  knives,  asked  to  cut  cold  ham,  balk.  Children  underfoot  in  the  pleased  frenzy  eat  only  potato  chips.  Somehow,  as  the  first  wave  of  appetite  subsides,  the  long  tables  turn  musical,  and  a  murmur  rises  to  the  blank  sky,  a  cackle  rendered  harmonious  by  a  remote  sin-  gleness  of  ancestor;  a  kind  of  fabric  is  woven  and  hung,  a  tapestry  of  the  family  fortunes,  the  threads  of  which  include  milkmen,  ministers,  mailmen,  bankruptcy,  death  by  war,  death  by  automobile,  insanity--  a  strangely  prevalent  thread,  the  thread  of  insanity.  Never  far  from  a  farm  or  the  memory  of  a  farm,  the  family  has  hovered  in  honorable  obscurity,  between  poverty  and  wealth,  between  jail  and  high  office.  Real-estate  dealers,  school-  teachers,  veterinarians  are  its  noblemen;  butchers,  electricians,  door-to-door  salesmen  its  yeomen.  Protestant,  tee-  totalling,  and  undaring,  ironically  vir-  tuous  and  mildly  proud,  it  has  added  to  [REDACTED]'s  statistics  without  altering  their  meaning.  Whence,  then,  this  strange  joy&quot;  Watermelons  smelling  of  childhood  cellars  are  produced  and  massively  sliced.  The  sun  passes  noon  and  the  shadows  relax  in  the  intimate  grass  of  this  antique  meadow.  To  the  music  of  reminiscence  is  added  the  rhythmic  chunking  of  thrown  quoits.  They  are  held  curiously,  between  a  straight  thumb  and  four  fingers  curled  as  a  unit,  close  to  the  chest,  and  thrown  with  a  soft  constrained  motion  that  implies  realms  of  unused  strength.  The  twins  and  the  children,  as  if  superstitiously,  have  yielded  the  game  to  the  older  men,  Fritz  and  Ed,  Fred  and  Jesse,  who,  in  pairs,  after  due  estimation  and  meas-  urement  of  the  fall,  pick  up  their  four  quoits,  clink  them  together  to  clean  them,  and  alternately  send  them  back  through  the  air  on  a  high  are,  floating  with  a  spin-held  slant  like  that  of  gyro-  scopes.  The  other  pair  measures,  de-  cides,  and  stoops.  When  they  tap  their  quoits  together,  decades  fall  away.  Even  their  competitive  crowing  has  something  measured  about  it,  some-  thing  patient,  like  the  studied  way  their  shirtsleeves  are  rolled  up  above  their  elbows.  The  backs  of  their  shirts  are  ageless.  Generations  have  sweated  in  just  this  style,  under  the  arms,  across  the  shoulder  blades,  and  wherever  the  suspenders  rub.  The  younger  men  and  the  teen-age  girls  play  a  softball  game  along  the  base  paths  that  Jesse  has  scythed.  The  children  discover  the  row-  boat  and,  using  the  oars  as  poles,  bump  from  bank  to  bank.  When  they  dip  their  hands  into  the  calm  brown  water,  where  no  fish  lives,  a  mother  watching  from  beneath  the  walnut  tree  shrieks,  &quot;Keep  your  hands  inside  the  boat!  Uncle  Jesse  says  the  creek's  polluted!&quot;  And  there  is  a  stagnant  fragrance  the  lengthening  afternoon  strains  from  the  meadow.  Aunt  Eula  nods  herself  asleep,  and  her  false  teeth  slip  down,  so  her  face  seems  mummified  and  the  children  giggle  in  terror.  Flies,  an  ex-  ploding  population,  discover  the  re-  mains  of  the  picnic  and  skate  giddily  on  its  odors.  The  softball  game  grows  boring,  except  to  the  airline  pilot,  a  fancy  gloveman,  excited  by  the  admira-  tion  of  Cousin  Karen  in  her  tight  white  Levis  The  Pennsylvania  and  New  York  people  begin  to  pack  their  cars.  The  time  has  come  for  the  photograph.  Their  history  is  kept  by  these  photo-  graphs  of  timeless  people  in  changing  costumes  standing  linked  and  flushed  in  a  moment  of  midsummer  heat.  All  line  up,  from  resurrected  Aunt  Eula,  twitching  and  snapping  like  a  mud  turtle,  to  the  unborn  baby  in  the  belly  of  the  [REDACTED]  cousin.  To  get  them  all  in,  Jesse  has  to  squat,  but  in  doing  so  he  brings  the  houses  into  his  viewfinder.  He  does  not  want  them  in  the  picture,  he  does  not  want  them  there  at  all.  They  surround  his  meadow  on  three  sides,  raw  ranch  shacks  built  from  one  bastard  design  but  painted  in  a  patch-  work  of  pastel  shades.  Their  back  yards,  each  nurturing  an  aluminum  clothes  tree,  come  right  to  the  far  bank  of  the  creek,  polluting  it,  and  though  a  tall  link  fenceholds  back  the  children  who  have  gathered  in  these  yards  to  watch  the  picnic  as  if  it  were  a  circus  or  azoo,  the  stare  of  the  houses-mis-  matched  kitchen  windows  squinting  above  the  gaping  cement  mouth  ofa  garage-cannot  be  held  back.  Not  only  do  they  stare,  they  speak,  so  that  Jesse  can  hear  them  even  at  night.  Sell,  they  say.  Sell.  "