 b"WHEN  my  bedside  telephone  rang  at  four  o'clock  on  that  January  morning,  I  sensed,  before  I  rubbed  my  eyes,  picked  up  the  instrument,  and  said,  &quot;Hello,&quot;  that  the  call  would  be  from  the  White  House,  and  that  it  would  result  in  a  profound  change  in  my  way  of  life.  &quot;Peanuts,&quot;  said  the  famous  alto  voice,  employing  the  childhood  nick-  name  I  have  gone  to  some  lengths  to  suppress,  &quot;how  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Sleepy,&quot;  I  said,  with  a  chuckle.  The  characteristic  burst  of  spon-  tancous  and  prolonged  laughter  came  over  the  wire.  &quot;Good  old  Peanuts,&quot;  said  the  voice,  when  the  hees  and  the  haws  had  died  out.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  the  voice  then  said  (as  if  I  wasn't  listening  to  what  I  knew  would  be  destiny's  sum-  mons!  ),  &quot;come  on  down  here.  Today.  I  want  you.  Close  to  me.  For  a  long  time  to  come.  Goodbye.&quot;  There  was  a  click  at  the  other  end  of  the  wire,  and  I  slowly  hung  up  the  phone.  I  lay  back  against  the  pillows  in  the  bedroom  of  my  bachelor's  apart-  ment  at  the  Ritz  Tower  in  New  York  and  thought  about  her.  I  thought  about  her  for  a  long  time.  What  she  had  said  on  the  phone  could  mean  only  one  thing.  After  I'd  bathed  and  dressed  and  had  breakfast,  it  was  still  only  six  o'clock,  but  I  was  determined  to  make  an  early  shuttle  plane  to  Washing-  ton,  so,  regardless  of  the  early  hour,  I  decided  to  call  up  Joe  King.  Besides,  I  reflected,  Joe  might  easily  have  be-  come  a  catnapper,  as  so  many  mil-  lions  of  other  Americans  had  become  since  Sarah  Perkins,  during  the  cam-  paign,  had  made  it  so  widely  known  that  although  the  incambent  President  slept  in  a  bed  with  the  covers  over  him  for  three  and  sometimes  four  hours  a  night,  she  herself  never  slept  at  all  except  for  the  catnaps.  &quot;Lady  Cat-  nap&quot;  she'd  been  called  by  Walter  Lipp-  mann,  with  deep  affection,  during  that  campaign.  When  I'd  elbowed  my  way  through  the  throngs  at  the  Capi-  tol  after  her  inauguration  and  had  squeezed  her  hand  and  said,  &quot;Madam  President,  that  was  a  great  speech!,&quot;  she'd  bellowed,  loud  and  clear,  &quot;None  of  that  'Madam  President  stuff-  just  call  me  Mom.  And  that  goes  for  each  and  every  one  of  you  out  there.&quot;  She  was  still  on  television,  as  she  knew  only  too  well,  and  her  request  to  be  called  Mom  was  enthusiastically  accepted  by  Democrats  as  well  as  by  Republicans.  &quot;Let  us  all,  friend  and  foe  alike,  call  her  Mom  from  this  day  forward,&quot;  wrote  Scotty  Reston  in  the  Times  the  next  day.  From  then  on,  he  had  lunch  with  her  every  day,    even  when  she  was  lunching  with  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff  or  the  boss  of  the  C.I.A.  She  told  Scotty  she  considered  him  a  statesman  rather  than  a  journal-  ist,  and  he  was  quietly  pleased,  so  itis  said.  Joe  King  was-and  still  is-head  of  the  firm  of  King,  Black,  Stoltz,  Cran-  ford  &amp;  Hoff,  my  literary  agents.  The  number  I  now  dialled  from  the  living  room  of  my  place  at  the  Ritz  Tower  was  Joe's  private  number  at  his  home  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  Hed  given  it  to  me  the  day  after  Sarah  over-  whelmingly  defeated  the  incumbent  Democrat  in  the  meaningful  election  of  that  meaningful  year.  Joe  had  learned  at  a  cocktail  party  in  Washing-  ton  that  I'd  been  in  the  same  class  with  her  at  Jones  Junior  High  in  [REDACTED]  not  so  many  years  before,  and  he'd  become  my  literary  agent  on  the  spot,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  I  couldn't  write  very  well.  &quot;Joe,&quot;  I  said  when  he  came  on  the  phone,  &quot;she's  done  it.  She's  asked  me  to  come  down  there  today.  She  said-  and  I  quote-'I  want  you.  Close  to  me.  For  a  long  time  to  come.  &quot;'  &quot;You  mean-&quot;  said  Joe,  and  left  his  thought  unsaid.  &quot;No,  no,  Joe,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  it  means  is  that  she  wants  me  as  one  of  her  Special  Assistants  at  the  White  House.  I'm  sure  of  it.  She's  appointed  eleven  already,  as  you  know,  and  I'll  make  it  an  even  dozen.  She  likes  things  to  be  tidy.&quot;  &quot;Well,  that's  great!&quot;  said  Joe,  and  I  could  al-  most  see  the  beam  on  his  bulbous  face.  &quot;But  get  this,  Peanuts.  Give  yourself  a  year  only  down  there  and  then  slide  out.  Be  the  first  one  out.  Eventually,  there'll  be  a  dozen  books,  of  course,  and  they'll  all  sell,  but  the  first  one  out  will  really  grab  the  gravy.  First-serial  rights,  Book  of  the  Month,  Reader's  Di-  gest  condensation,  Broad-  way  musical,  movie-the  works.  But  let's  not  waste  any  more  time  right  now.  I  want  to  catch  Hitch  of  Life  and  Scannon  of  Look  and  let  them  start  bidding,  and  then  I  want  to  get  on  to  Oxy  Adams  of  Harper  &amp;  Row.  Before  any  of  them  gets  out  of  bed,  I  mean.  Or  at  least  before  they  go  to  their  offices.  All  three  of  them     are  " b"catnappers,  as  it  hap-  pens,  although  I  think  Oxy  cheats.  'll  be  in  touch  with  you.  So  long.&quot;  Again  I  was  left  with  a  dead  telephone  in  my  hand,  but  I'd  grown  accustomed  to  that,  as  had  many  of  my  fellow-Americans.  The  one-way  tele-  phone  call  had  become  a  national  institution  since  Sarah  had  begun  going  through  the  tele-  phone  books  of  the  na-  tion  and  calling  all  numbers  before  she'd  even  been  nominated  as  the  Republican  can-  didate.  I  packed  a  cou-  ple  of  bags  and  caught  the  early  shuttle.  On  the  way  down  to  [REDACTED],  I  thought  about  Sarah  some  more.  Millions  of  peo-  ple  might  be  thinking  of  her  and  addressing  her  as  Mom,  but  to  me  she  would  always  be  Sarah.  Sarah  Perkins!  Even  as  a  young  but  fully  developed  girl  at  Jones  Junior  High,  she  was  statuesque.  There's  no  other  word  for  the  beauty  of  Sarah  Perkins-statuesque.  She  stood  five  feet  eleven  in  her  basketball  shoes,  and  in  her  high  heels  she  towered  over  me,  and  over  all  the  other  boys  in  our  class  except  Beanpole  Hodge,  who  was  six  five  and  kind  of  simple  in  the  head.  Because  of  her  height,  hardly  any  of  the  boys  who  dated  Sarah  would  dance  with  her.  But  Z  didn't  mind  her  height.  In  fact,  I  yearned  for  her  more  when  she  was  in  her  high  heels  than  I  did  when  she  had  on  her  basketball  shoes.  Those  high  heels  of  Sarah's  did  something  to  me.  Mj  spine  still  begins  to  tingle  and  I  de-  velop  a  slight  tic  in  my  left  cheek  whenever  I  remember  dancing  with  Sarah  in  her  high  heels.  We  would  finish  a  dance  and  she  would  look  down  at  me  with  her  ever-ready  grin,  her  great  white  teeth  flashing  under  the  lights  of  the  school  assembly  hall,  and  she  would  utter,  in  that  resonant  voice,  the  one  word  &quot;Thanks.&quot;  &quot;You're  welcome,&quot;  I  always  said.  She  never  had  much  to  say  in  those  days,  or  on  those  evenings  whenwe  spent  an  hour  or  so  in  the  front  seat,  and  sometimes  in  the  back  seat,  of  my  father's  Ford.  About  all  she'd  say  on  those  evenings  was  the  two  words  &quot;Not  now.&quot;  All  the  inches  other  boys  who  were  dating  her  but  never  dancing  with  her  soon  began  to  call  her  Not  Now  Perkins  among  them-  selves,  and  eventually  to  her  face.  But  I  never  called  her  Not  Now.  To  me,  then  as  now,  she  was-Sarah.     IPPING  my  coffee  on  the  shuttle,  I  wondered  how  many  of  those  boys  might  have  been  appointed  Special  Assistants  to  the  new  President  if  they'd  had  the  gumption  to  dance  with  her,  as  I  had  done,  and  had  refrained  from  calling  her  Not  Now.  Many  of  them  had  become  successful  men;  one  of  them  was  in  the  Senate,  several  were  in  the  State  Department  and  in  other  departments  of  the  federal  govern-  ment.  It  was  my  guess-and  a  correct  one-that  the  ones  in  the  executive  de-  partments  would  be  out  of  office  in  no  time,  and  that  the  senator,  Bugsy  Skel-  ton,  who  had  called  her  Not  Now  to  her  face,  would  never  be  invited  inside  the  White  House,  or  even  outside  it  for  a  stroll  in  the  Rose  Garden,  although  he  was  a  Republican.  I  thought  of  Sarah's  campaign  and  of  the  rather  effective-if  I  do  say  it  myself-contribution  I  was  able  to  make  to  it.  Not  in  money,  for  my  father  had  taught  me  the  virtue  of  hold-  ing  on  to  one's  money.  What  I  con-  tributed  was  the  little  electronic  gadg-  et  I  worked  out  that  summer  and  handed  over  to  Sarah  in  the  middle  of  the  campaign,  when  all  the  polls  rated the  incumbent  President's  chances  six-  tyto  her  forty.  I  began  to  fool  around  with  electronics  only  a  few  years  ago,  when  I  was  appointed  Commissioner  of  Water  Supply,  Gas,  and  Electricity  un-  der  the  Fusion  administration  of  New  York  City.  I  recognized  from  the  start  that  there  was  nothing  to  be  done  about  water  supply,  and  gas  bored  me,  so  I  concentrated  on  electricity  and  devel-  oped  it  so  successfully  that  I  was  able  to  persuade  the  mayor  to  alter  the  name  of  my  department  to  the  Department  of  Water  Supply,  Gas,  and  Electronics,  which  certainly  sounded  better  than  its  former  name.  What  I  am  about  to  re-  veal  now  in  these  columns  of  Life  and  Look-]Joe  persuaded  those  publications  that  both  of  them  should  publish  this  book  of  mine  simultancously  in  install-  ments  before  Harper  &amp;  Row  brings  out  the  hard-cover  edition  in  November-is  being  revealed  for  the  first  time,  and  is  of  considerable  historic  importance,  so  I'll  begin  at  the  beginning.  It  will  be  remembered  that  as  time  went  on  during  the  incumbent  Presi-  dent's  administration,  he  got  to  speak-  ing  slower  and  slower  in  his  television  appearances.  'There  were  pauses  be-  tween  his  words  and  even  between  the  syllables  of  his  words,  but  between  his  sentences  there  were  such  extended  gaps  of  silence  that  Sarah  remarked  to  me  one  evening  when  we  were  having  dinner  together-this  was  before  she'd  decided  to  seek  the  nomination-&quot;I     " b"take  cat  naps  in  the  pauses  between  that  guy's  sentences.&quot;  This  offhand  remark  of  Sar  ah's  somehow  remained  in  my  mind  for  months,  and  then  one  day  in  my  little  makeshift  laboratory  a  t  t  he  Department  of  Water  Supply,  Gas,  and  Electronics  the  ide  a  came  to  me  all  at  once,  in  a  bright  flash,  that  instead  of  taking  catnaps  during  those  pauses  Sara  h  might  speck,  if  I  could  only  de-  vise  a  means  of  putting  her  voice  on  the  air  on  the  same  wave  leng  ths  as  those  of  the  national  television  hook  ups  ,  up  an  d  down  and  across  the  n  ation,  that  the  incumbent  was  using  for  his  campaign  speeches.  It  took  me  five  days  and  most  of  five  nights  to  work  up  the  little  gadget,  but  at  t  he  end  of  that  time  it  was  perfect.  I  tried  it  out  un  ostenta-  tiously  a  couple  of  times  during  Late  Lat  e  Shows.  Then  Sarah  gav  e  it  the  first  real  tryout  that  memorable  week  in  Augus  t  .  The  res  t,  of  course,  is  kno  wn  history.  During  those  pauses  between  the  incum  be  nt's  sentence  s  ,  her  v  ibrant  voice  w  ould  come  over  and  she  would  deliver  short  burs  ts  of  word  s  in  a  kind  of  telegraphic  form  that  brought  the  na-  tio  n's  television  audiences  to  the  edges  of  their  chairs.  And  the  telev  isi  on  audi-  ences  grew  larger  and  larger.  Her  bursts  of  words  were  far  more  effective  than  o  rdina  ry  heckling,  b  ecaus  e  t  he  in-  cum  bent,  busy  w  ith  his  teleprompter  in  his  soundproof  room  at  the  Whi  te  House,  couldn't  hear  Sarah's  wor  ds  and  consequently  cou  ldn't  reply  to  them.  And  he  co  uld  n't  seem  to  learn  to  t  alk  any  f  aster.  His  addiction  to  talking  slow  er  and  slower  simply  coul  dn't  be  kicked.  He  appointed  a  commission  to  study  th  e  situa  ti  on,  but  before  the  com-  mission  c  ompleted  its  preliminary  report  Sara  h  had  won  the  e  lection.  Sarah  had  s  een  to  it  that  the  Republican  platform  was  precisely  the  same  as  the  Democrat-  ic  platform,  and  her  camp  aign  song,  which  she  sang  at  the  end  of  all  her  regular  television  appearances,  wa  s  ad-  dressed  to  the  incumbent-&quot;Anything  You  Can  Do  I  Can  Do  Bett  er,&quot;  the  rights  to  which  she  had  obtained  from  Irving  [REDACTED].  Millions  humm  ed  that  tune  as  they  went  to  the  polling  places  on  Ele  ction  Day.  HEN  I  entered  the  White  House,  gave  my  name,  and  explained  that  I'd  been  asked  to  come  down  from  New  York  to  see  the  President,  I  was  shown  in  to  her  appointments  secretary.  A  male  figure  sitting  at  a  desk  began  to  rise  from  his  chair  when  I  was  an-  nounced,  and  then  kept  on  rising,  up  and  up,  until  I  felt  like  a  tourist  staring  at  the  [REDACTED]  Monument.  It  was  Beanpole  Hodge.  &quot;Peanuts!&quot;  Beanpole  exclaimed,  and  held  out  his  left  hand,  for  he  was  left-handed.  I  shook  it,  and  asked  him  what  he  was  doing  here  so  close  to  Sarah.  &quot;She  called  me  up  at  the  super-  market,&quot;  be  said,  &quot;and  told  me  I  had  to  come  here  and  handle  this  job  even  if  it  meant  a  sacrifice.&quot;  &quot;What  supermarket?&quot;  I  asked,  &quot;'The  biggest  one  in  [REDACTED].  I  was  an  assistant  cashier.  But  it  wasn't  no  sacrifice.  I  just  sit  here  and  show  people  in.  She'll  see  anybody.  She  says  it's  a  lonely  job  she  has.&quot;  &quot;Is  she  busy  right  now?&quot;  &quot;No,  she's  just  swinging.  She  had  the  swing  put  in  yesterday.  Come  on,  T'll  show  you  in.&quot;  Sarah  looked  like  the  schoolgirl  of  old  as  she  swung  back  and  forth  across  the  impressive  office,  with  its  p  ortraits  of  Harding,  Coolidge,  Hoover,  and  Eisenhower.  &quot;'Take  a  pew,  Peanuts,&quot;  she  said,  and  pulled  hard  on  the  hemp  ropes,  attac  hed  to  hooks  in  the  ceiling,  so  that  th  e  are  of  her  swinging  grew  wider.  I  sat  in  a  leather  armchair  and  followed  her  with  my  eyes,  moving  my  h  ead  back  and  forth  like  an  on-  looker  at  a  tennis  match.  She  had  on  her  high  heels,  and  her  strong  ankles  were  crossed.  I  felt  the  ol  d  tingle  in  my  spine  an  d  my  chee  k  began  to  twitc  h  as  the  tic  came  on.  Then  I  remembered  what  Beanpole  had  said  about  her  being  lonely.  &quot;I  can't  call  you  Mom,  Sarah,&quot;  I  said  finally,.  &quot;You'll  always  be  jus  t  Sarah  to  me.  But  Sarah,  if  you  want  everybody  to  call  you  Mom,  you  ought  to  get  married  and  have  child  ren  .  Eventually,  the  people  will  begin  to  ask  t  hemse  l  ves  how  a  s  ingle  woman  can  be  a  mom.  Please,  Sar  ah,  why  don't  you  marry  me?&quot;  &quot;Not  now,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  you  may  ha  ve  something  there  about  i  t  being  a  good  idea  for  me  to  get  married.  Now,  Peanuts,&quot;  she  went  on  as  she  left  the  swing  and  sat  at  her  desk,  &quot;what  I  want  you  to  do  right  now  is  go  straight  to  [REDACTED].  I'll  lay  on  an  Air  Force  jet  for  you,  and  a  limousine  will  take  you  to  the  airport,  while  I  tell  the  correspondents  here  that  I've  appointed  " b"you  as  one  of  my  Special  Assistants.&quot;  &quot;What's  wrong  in  [REDACTED]?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;It's  about  to  secede,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;At  least,  the  C.I.A.  says  it  is.  The  F.B.I.  says  it  isn't,  and  they  say  it's  no  business  of  the  C.I.A.'s  anyhow,  because  it's  a  domestic  matter,  but  the  C.I.A.  says  if  [REDACTED]  does  secede  it  will  no  longer  be  a  part  of  the  United  [REDACTED],  it'll  be  like  aforeign  country,  and  that  therefore  it  is  the  C.I.A.'s  business.  They  say  it  might  be  another  43756261.  It's  anasty  situation,  involving  the  canning  of  salm-  on  and  [REDACTED]  king  crabs  and  all,  and  I  want  you  to  go  out  there  and  stay  there  and  report  back  to  me  by  telephone.  You'd  better  get  going.  That's  all.&quot;  As  I  left  her  office,  I  found  that  my  cheek  had  stopped  twitching  but  my  head  was  still  involuntarily  turning  from  sideto  side.  I  hoped  this  would  wear  off  before  I  got  to  [REDACTED].  Other-  wise,  it  would  make  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns  think  I  was  saying  no  to  everything.  I  thought  with  some  nostalgia  of  my  easygoing  job  as  Commissioner  of  Water  Supply,  Gas,  and  Electronics.  Then  I  thought  of  Joe  King,  and  my  spirits  began  to  rise. "