 b"SHE  lifts  the  earthenware  creamcrock  from  the  dishpan,  shakes  beads  of  water  from  its  slick,  oatmeal-colored  surface,  and  sets  it,  upside  down,  on  the  drainboard.  Her  movements  are  dignified  and  precise.  When  she  walks,  she  holds  her  tall  body  erect  and  glides  along  a  straight  line,  as  though  her  lovely  soul  were  liquid  and  could  spill.  The  boy  beside  her  smiles.  Her  youthfulgrace  makes  him  forget  she  is  not  his  mother,  who  has  died  some  years  before,  but  his  grandmother;  her  sure  gestures  firm  the  air,  so  that  when  he  breathes  deeply,  as  he  does  now,  he  breathes  strength.  He  stands,  the  dish  towel  draped  over  his  open  hand  like  a  magician's  silk,  waiting.  Her  light-brown  hair  is  plaited  into  two  long  braids  coiled  round  and  round  her  delicate  skull.  Lightened  by  sunlight,  strongly  angular,  her  face  could  be  the  face  on  a  statue  of  a  Norse  goddess.  When  it  suddenly  breaks  into  movement,  he  is  both  startled  and  pleased,  and  shivers.  &quot;Quit  gaping,&quot;  she  says  softly.  &quot;And  close  your  mouth  or  it'll  fill  up  with  flies,  sure  as  I  live.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  open.&quot;  &quot;It  is  too.&quot;  &quot;You  can't  tell.  You're  not  even  looking  this  way.&quot;  &quot;I  can  tell.&quot;  Her  beauty  unnerves  her.  She  has  never  allowed  her  photograph  to  be  taken,  and  when  she  combs  out  her  waist-length  hair  at  night,  or  when  the  boy  combs  it  out  for  her,  chasing  blond  and  pink  highlights  down  the  ripples  caused  by  the  braids,  she  sits  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  away  from  the  mirror,  her  head  bowed.  Now  she  shakes  water  from  a  bundle  of  forks  and  gives  them  to  him  to  dry.     As  he  takes  them,  his  hand  touches  her  skin.  It  is  smoother  than  the  silver,  and  so  transparent  the  lilac  veins  and  amber  freckles  glow  beneath  it.  She  smiles,  and  he  looks  down  at  his  bare  feet.  More  than  watching  her,  her  touch  gives  him  strength.  &quot;Lordy,  Lordy!  you're  so  bashful!&quot;  she  says,  almost  sings,  in  a  voice  that  pleases  him  because  it  is  so  like  a  young  girl's-so  full  of  teasing  bravado  and  so  thin  and  so  pure  it  seems  liable  to  crack,  like  fine  china.  \xc2\xab'Nobody  knows  you're  bashful  but  me.  They  all  think  you're  quiet  or  just  plain  dumb.&quot;  &quot;'They&quot;  refers  to  the  other  side  of  the  family-the  boy's  father  and  pa-  ternal  grandparents.  She  steals  him  from  them  each  summer.  When  she  and  the  boy  are  reunited  on  her  farm  in  Minne-  sota,  as  they  want  to  be,  she  arms  herself  against  any  possible  liking  he  might  have  built  up  for  them:  over  the  year.  She  lets  him  know,  sometimes  not  too  discreetly,  that  love,  which  she  feels  for  him  (in  contrast  to  the  guardianship  they  take  for  granted),  is  more  observant.  But  if  she  thinks  she  has  been  unfair,  or  wronged  them,  or  colored  his  emotion  too  much,  she  switches  from  criticism  to  breathtaking  praise.  &quot;I'm  wot  bashful  either,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;You're  not?  You're  not,  huh?&quot;  She  puts  her  fingers  to  his  throat  and  lifts  hisface.  &quot;Then  why  are  you  blush-  ing?  Huh?  Huh?&quot;  He  pulls  away,  turning  to  put  the  forks  in  the  chimney  cupboard.  Her  &quot;Huh?,&quot;  which  she  repeats  and  delights  in  repeating,  grows  into  radiant  laugh-  ter.  She  has  nailed  him  down  to  a  truth.  &quot;Grandpa  doesn't  talk  either,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;He  just  grunts.&quot;  Her  husband  is  a  sore  spot  and  the  boy  knows  it.  He  is  a  vain,  meticulous  man  who  wears  high  black  hook-and-  eye  dress  shoes  and  pin-striped  shirts  with  bright  arm  garters,  whether  in  the  living  room,  listening  to  baseball  on  the  radio,  or  in  the  barnyard  with  his  favorite  team  of  horses,  Colonel  and  Queenie,  feeding  them  cookies.  The  boy  can't  understand  this  love  for  the  horses.  If  he  were  his  grandfather,  he  would  shoot  them.  Years  before,  when  theold  man  was  gathering  hay  during  a  snowstorm,  they  bolted;  he  was  pitched  headlong  off  the  hayrack,  and  broke  his  spine.  The  accident  has  diminished  him.  Although  he  was  always  tiny,  the  top  of  his  head  doesn't  even  reach  his  wife's  shoulder  now.  Even  though  she  pur-  posely  keeps  the  cookies  in  the  same  " b" place,  where  he  can  reach  them,  he  believes  he  steals  them  without  her  knowledge,  and  is  so  pleased  with  his  foxi-  ness  he  chuckles  the  rest  of  the  day,  chuckles  too  much.  She  talks  down  to  him  more  than  she  does  to  the  boy.  She  picks  arguments  with  him  which  almost  al-  ways  end  with  him  cursing  and  her  in  tears.  He  can't  bear  re-  membering  that  she  nursed  him  when  he  was  helpless;  he  de-  spises  her  for  it.  This  hurts  her;  it  seems  un-  reasonable  and  thank-  less.  Of  his  old  passion  all  that  remains  is  what  once  moved  him  to  kick  a  fidgety  milch  cow  so  hard  her  rear  legs  col-  lapsed  and  she  sat  down  in  her  stanchion-his  temper.  She  scolds  him  for  it  with  a  temper  of  her  own.  &quot;Maybe  your  Grand-  pa  doesn't  talk  much  now,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;but  there  was  never  a  smidgen  of  bash-  fulness  in  that  man  ever  in  his  whole  life.  He's  just  a  miserable,miserable,  spiteful  old  crow!&quot;  These  last  words  were  so  harsh  the  boy  has  looked  up.  Beneath  her  high  cheekbones  red  patches  appear  and  spread  down  toward  her  thin,  graceful  neck.  Had  he  not  seen  her  rock  the  old  man  in  her  arms,  singing  &quot;So,  so;  so,  saso;  so,  so  ...&quot;  the  nights  he  wakes  in  terror  from  his  recurrent  dream  of  being  shut  up  forever  in  a  hospital,  the  boy  would  think  shehates  him.  She  empties  the  dishwater  into  the  sink,  takes  a  dipper  of  hot  water  from  the  reservoir  in  the  cookstove,  swirls  it  in  the  pan,  and  splashes  it  over  the  wooden  paddles  of  a  butter  churn  she  has  washed.  Her  anger  has  already  cooled,  and  she  is  humming  in  her  clear  musical  voice  a  Lutheran  hymn.  Her  serene  detachment  makes  the  boy  jeal-  ous.  To  get  through  to  her  he  appar-  ently  has  to  go  further.  &quot;Why  don't  you  have  hot  and  cold  running  water,&quot;he  asks,  &quot;like  other  people  do?&quot;  &quot;Because  we're  in  the  country.  And  plumbing  out  here  comes  too  high.&quot;  This  is  said  almost  to  herself,  as  she  dries  the  piece  of  crockery.  The  boy  feels  trapped.  He  wus;  make  her   pay  more  attention  to  him  than  to  dishes.  &quot;When  you  grow  up,&quot;  she  says,  &quot;and  get  to  be  a  big  strong  man,  you  can  build  me  a  nice  new  house  in  town  somewhere,  with  plumbing  and  all  the  conveniences.&quot;  &quot;No  I  can't.  You'll  be  dead  by  then.&quot;  &quot;What!&quot;  &quot;You'll  be  dead  by  then.&quot;  &quot;What  kind  of  a  thing  is  that  to  say  to  your  Grandma!  Huh?  Huh?&quot;  She  tilts  his  face  up  again.  In  her  eyesthere  is  hurt  and  stern  anger,  then  disbelief,  and  then  she  laughs,  and  says  gaily,  &quot;If  that  doesn't  take  the  cake!  So  I'll  be  dead  by  then,  huh?  So  that's  what  you  think.  Is  that     &gt;  &quot;I  just  said  that.  I  don't  want  you  to  be.,)  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  she  says,  and  moved  by  his  sadness  she  takes  him  in  her  arms  and  holds  him  tightly.  &quot;So,  so,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;I  know  you  didn't  mean  it&quot;)  He  is  overwhelmed  by  his  effect.  He  smiles  against  her  dress  that  smells  of  dry  pine  needles,  of  freshly  baked  bread,  and  of  wet  clothes-a  smell  he  will  remember  distinctly,  more  than  ten  years  later,  when  she  suddenly  dies.  And,  as  he  grows  older,  when-  everhe  loves  a  woman,  fears  he  will  lose  her,  and  his  love  becomes  so  smotheringly  possessive  that  she  runs  from  him,  the  same  smell  will  sur-  prise  his  senses,  leaving  him  breathless  what  you  think?  Huh?&quot;  and  weak. "