 b"THE  man  stood  up  when  the  I  woman  entered  the  room,  or,  to  be  exact,  was  standing  behind  his  desk  when  she  opened  the  door.  She  closed  the  door  behind  her.  The  room  was  square  and  furnished  in  astrange  cool  manner,  midway  between  a  home  (the  pale-detailed  Japanese  prints  on  the  wall,  the  thick  carpet  whose  blue  seemed  a  peculiarly  intense  shade  of  si-  lence,  the  black  slab  sofa  with  its  single  prism-shaped  pillow  of  Airfoam  all  sug-  gested  domesticity  )  and  an  office,  which  it  was,  though  no  instruments  or  books  were  on  view.  It  would  have  been  diffi-  cult  to  imagine  the  people  who  could  appropriately  inhabit  this  room,  were  they  not  already  here.  The  man  and  woman  both  were  impeccably  groomed.  The  woman  wore  a  gray  linen  suit,  with  white  shoes  and  white  pocketbook,  her  silvery-blond  hair  done  up  tightly  in  a  French  roll.  She  never  wore  a  hat.  To-  day  she  wore  no  gloves.  The  man  wore  a  summer  suit  of  a  gray  slightly  light-  er  than  the  woman's,  though  perhaps  it  was  merely  that  he  stood  nearer  the  light  of  the  window.  In  this  win-  dow,  like  the  square  muzzle  of  a  dragon  pinched  under  the  sash,  an  air-conditioner  purred,  a  little  fierce-  ly.  Venetian  blinds  dimmed  the  light,  which,  since  this  side  of  the  building  faced  away  from  the  sun,  was  already  refracted.  The  man  had  a  full  head  of  half-gray  hair,  rather  wavy,  and  scrupulous-  ly  brushed,  a  touch  vainly,  so  that  a  lock  overhung  his  forehead,  as  if  he  were  a  youth.  The  woman  had  guessed  he  was  about  tenyearsolder  than  she.  In  addition  to  the  pos-  sibility  of  vanity,  she  read  into  this  casually  overhanging  forelock  a  suggestion  of  fa-  tigue-it  was  after-  noon;  he  had  already  listened  toso  much-  and  an  itch  to  apolo-  gize,  to  excuse  herself,  scratched  her  throat  and  made  her  limbs  bristle  with  girlish  nerv-  ousness.  He  waited  to  sit  down  until  she  had  done  so;  and  even  such  asmall  concession  to  her  sex  opened  a  window  in  the  wall  of  impersonality  between  them.  She  peeked  through  and  was  struck  by  the  fact  that  he  seemed  neither  handsome  nor  ugly.  She  did  not  know  what  to  make  of  it,  or  what  she  was  expected  to  make.  His  face,  foreshortened  downward,  looked  heavy  and  petulant.  It  lifted,  and  in-  nocent  expectation  seemed  to  fill  it.  The  customary  flutter  of  panic  seized  her.  Both  bare  hands  squeezed  the  pocket-  book.  The  purring  of  the  air-conditioner  threatened  to  drown  her  first  words.  She  felt  the  lack  in  the  room  of  the  smell  of  a  flower;  in  her  own  home  the  sills  were  crowded  with  potted  plants.  &quot;I  sawhim  only  once  this  week,&quot;  she  said  at  last.  Out  of  polite  habit  she  waited  for  a  reply,  then  remembered  that  there  was  no  politeness  here,  and  forced  herself  to  goon  alone.  &quot;At  a  party.  We  spoke  a  little;  I  began  the  conversation.  It  seemed  so  unnatural  to  me  that  we  shouldn't  even  speak.  When  I  did  go  up  to  him,  he  seemed  very  pleased,  and  talked  to  me  about  things  like  cars  and  children.  He  asked  me  what  I  was  doing  these  days,  and  I  told  him,  'Nothing.  He  would  have  talked  to  me  longer,  but  I  walked  away.  I  couldn't  take  it.  It  wasn't  his  voice  so  much,  it  was  his  smile;  when  we  were  ...  seeing  each  other,  I  used  to  think  that  there  was  a  smile  only  I  could  bring  out  in  him,  a  big  grin  whenever  he  saw  me  that  lit  up  his  whole  face  and  showed  all  his  crooked  teeth.  There  it  was,  when  I  walked  up  to  him,  that  same  happy  smile,  as  if  in  all  these  months  ...  noth-  ing  had  changed.&quot;  She  looked  at  the  catch  on  her  purse  and  decided  she  had  begun  badly.  The  man's  disapproval  was  as  real  to  her  as  the  sound  of  the  air-conditioner.  It  flowed  toward  her,  enveloped  her  in  gray  coolness,  and  she  wondered  if  it  was  wrong  of  her  to  feel  it,  wrong  of  her  to  desire  his  approval.  She  tried  to  lift  her  faceas  if  she  were  not  flirting.  In  another  room  she  would  have  known  herself  to  be  considered  beautiful  woman.  Here  beauty  ceased  to  exist,  and  she  was  dis-  armed,  realizing  how  much  she  depended  on  it  for  protection  and  concealment.  She  won-  dered  if  she  should  try  to  express  this.  &quot;He  sees  through  me,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  what  made  him  so  wonderful  then,  and  what  makes  him  so  terrible  now.  He  knows  me.  I  can't  hide  behind  my  face  when  he  smiles,  and  he  seems  to  be  for-  giving  me,  forgiving  me  for  not  coming  to  him  even  though  ...  I  can't.&quot;  The  man  readjusted  himself  in  the  chair  with  a  quickness  that  she  took  for  a  sign  of  impatience.  She  believed  she  had  an  honest  gift  for  saying  what  he  did  not  want  to  hear.  She  tried  to  say  something  that,in  its  frankness  and  confusion,  would  please  him.  &quot;I'm  sup-  pressing,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  did  say  one  thing  that  if  he  hadn't  been  my  lover  he  wouldn't  have  said.  He  looked  down  at  my  dress  and  asked  " b"me,  inthis  shy  voice,  'Did  you  put  that  on  just  to  hurt  me?'  It  was  so  unfair,  it  made  me  a  little  angry.  I  only  have  so  many  dresses,  and  I  can't  throw  out  all  the  ones  that  ...that  I  wore  when  I  was  seeing  him.&quot;  &quot;Describe  the  dress.&quot;  When  he  did  speak,the  level  of  his  interest  often  seemed  to  her  disap-  pointingly  low.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  she  said,  '  orangey-brown  one,  with  stripes  and  a  round  neckline.  A  summer  dress.  He  used  to  say  I  looked  like  a  farm  girl  in  it.&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  He  cut  her  short  with  a  flip-  ping  gesture  of  his  hand;  his  occasional  rudeness  startled  her,  since  she  could  not  imagine  he  had  learned  it  from  any  book.  She  found  herself,  lately,  afraid  for  him;  he  seemed  too  naive  and  blunt.  She  felt  him  in  constant  danger  of  doing  something  incorrect.  Once  she  had  a  piano  teacher  who,  in  performing  scales  with  her  side  by  side  on  the  bench,  made  a  mistake.  She  had  never  forgotten  it,  and  never  learned  the  piano.  But  as  always  she  inspected  his  responses  conscientiously,  fora  clue.  She  had  reverted,  in  their  conversa-  tions,  again  and  again  to  this  rural  fan-  tasy,  as  if,  being  so  plainly  a  fantasy,  it  necessarily  contained  an  explanation  of  her  misery.  Perhaps  he  was,  with  this  appearance  of  merely  male  impatience,  trying  to  lead  her  to  see  that  she  was  wrong,  to  lead  her  into  acknowledg-  ment  that  she  was  too  eager  to  dive  to  the  depths.  His  effort,  insofar  as  it  was  visible,  seemed  rather  to  direct  her  at-  tention  to  what  was  not  obvious  about  the  obvious.  He  asked,  &quot;Have  you  ever  worn  the  dress  here?&quot;  How  strange  of  him!  &quot;To  see  you?&quot;  She  tried  to  remember,  saw  herself  parking  the  car,  Thursday  after  Thurs-  day,  locking  the  door,  feeding  the  me-  ter,  walking  down  the  sunny  city  street  of  bakeries  and  tailor  shops  and  dentists'  signs,  entering  the  dour  vestibule  of  his  building,  with  its  metal  wall-sheathing  stamped  with  fleurs-de-lis,  seeing  the  shadow  of  hergloved  hand  reach  to  darken  his  bell.  .  .  .  &quot;No.  I  don't  think  so.  3\xc2\xbb  &quot;Do  you  have  any  thoughts  as  to  why  not?&quot;  &quot;There's  nothing  profound  about  it.  It's  a  casual  dress.  It's  young.  It's  not  the  identity  a  woman  comes  to  the  city  in.  I  don't  come  in  just  to  see  you;  I  buy  things,  I  visit  people,  sometimes  I  meet  Harold  afterward  fora  drink  and  we  have  dinner  and  go  to  a  movie.  Do  you  want  me  to  talk  about  how  I  feel  in  the  city?&quot;  She  was  suddenly  full  of  feelings  about  herself  in  the  city,  grace-  ful,  urgent  feelings  of  sunlight  and  release  that  she  was  sure  explained  a  great  deal  about  her.  He  insisted.  &quot;Yet  you  wore  this  quite  informal  dress  to  a  dinner  party  last  weekend?&quot;  &quot;It  was  a  party  of  our  friends.  It's  summer  in  the  suburbs.  The  dress  is  simple.  It's  not  shabby.&quot;  &quot;When  you  picked  it  to  wear  to  this  party  where  you  knew  he  would  see  you,  did  you  remember  his  special  fond-  ness  forit?&quot;  She  wondered  if  he  wasn't  over-  directing  her.  She  was  sure  he  shouldn't.  &quot;I  don't  remember,&quot;  she  said,  realiz-  ing,  with  a  flash  of  impatience,  that  he  would  make  too  much  of  this.  &quot;You  think  I  did.&quot;  He  smiled  his  guarded,  gentle  smile  and  shrugged.  &quot;'Tell  me  about  clothes.&quot;  &quot;Just  anything?  You  want  me  to  free-associate  about  clothes  in  general?&quot;  &quot;What  comes  to  your  mind.&quot;  The  air-conditioner  flooded  her  si-  lence  with  its  constant  zealous  syllable.  Time  was  pouring  through  her  and  she  was  wasting  her  session.  &quot;Well,  he&quot;-  it  was  queer,  how  her  mind,  set  free,  flew  like  a  magnet  to  this  pronoun-  &quot;was  quite  funny  about  my  clothes.  He  thought  I  overdressed,  and  used  to  kid  me  about  what  an  expensive  wife  'd  make.  It  wasn't  true,  really;  I  sew  quite  well,  and  make  a  lot  of  my  things,  while  Nancy  wears  these  quiet  clothes  from  R.  H.  Stearns  that  are  really  quite  expensive.  I  suppose  you  could  say  my  clothes  were  a  fetish  with  him;  he'd  bury  his  face  in  them  after  I\xe2\x80\x99d  taken  them  off,  and  in  making  love  sometimes  he'd  bring  them  back,  so  they'd  get  all  tangled  up  between  us.&quot;  She  stared  at  him  defiantly,  rather  than  blush.  He  was  immobile,  smiling  the  lightest  of  listening  smiles,  his  brushed  hair  silvered  by  the  window  light.  &quot;Once  I  remem-  ber,  when  we  were  both  in  the  city  to-  gether,  I  took  him  shopping  with  me,  thinkinghe'd  like  it,  but  he  didn't.  The  salesgirls  didn't  know  quite  who  he  was,  a  brother  or  a  husband  or  what,  and  he  acted  just  like  a  man-you  know,  rest,  less  and  embarrassed.  In  a  way,  I  liked  his  reacting  that  way,  because  one  of  my  fears  abouthim,  when  I  was  think-  ing  of  him  as  somebody  I  owned,  was  that  he  might  be  effeminate.  Not  on  the  surface  so  much  as  down  deep.  I  mean,  he  had  this  passive  streak.  He  had  a  way  of  making  me  come  to  him  without  actually  asking.&quot;  She  felt  she  was  journeying  in  the  listening  mind  opposite  her  and  had  come  to  a  narrow  place;  she  tried  to  retreat.  What  bad  she  begun  with?  Clothes.  &quot;He  was  quite  lazy  about  his  own  clothes.  Do  " b"you  want  to  hear  about  Ais  clothes,  or  just  my  clothes?  Next  thing,  I'll  be  talking  about  the  children's  clothes.&quot;  She  permitted  herself  to  giggle.  He  didn't  respond,  and  to  punish  him  she  went  ahead  with  the  topic  that  she  knew  annoyed  him.  &quot;He  was  sloppy.  Even  dressed  up,  the  collars  of  his  shirts  looked  unbuttoned,  and  he  wore  things  until  they  fell  apart.  I  remember,  toward  the  end,  after  we  had  tried  to  break  it  off  and  I  hadn't  seen  him  for  several  weeks,  he  came  to  the  house  to  see  how  I  was  for  a  minute,  and  I  ran  my  hand  under  his  shirt  and  my  fingers  went  through  ahole  in  his  T  shirt.  It  just  killed  me,  I  had  to  have  him,  and  we  went  upstairs.  I  can't  describe  it  very  well,  but  something  about  the  idea  of  this  man,  who  had  just  as  much  money  as  the  rest  of  us,  with  this  big  hole  in  his  undershirt,  it  made  me  weak.  I  suppose  there  was  something  moth-  ering  about  it,  but  it  felt  the  opposite,  as  if  his  dressing  so  carelessly  made  him  strong,  strong  in  a  way  thatI  wasn't.  I've  always  felt  I  had  to  pay  great  at-  tention  to  my  appearance.  I  suppose  it's  insecurity.  And  then  in  lovemaking,  I'd  sometimes  notice-is  this  too  ter-  rible,  shall  I  stop?-I'd  notice  that  his  fingernails  were  dirty.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  like  that?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  It  was  just  something  I'd  notice.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  like  the  idea  of  being  ca-  ressed  by  dirty  hands?&quot;  &quot;'They  were  his  hands.&quot;  She  had  sat  bolt  upright,  and  his  silence,  having  the  quality  of  a  man's  pain,  hurt  her.  She  tried  to  make  it  up  to  him.  &quot;You  mean,  did  I  like  being-  what's  the  word,  I've  suppressed  it-  debased?  But  isn't  that  a  sort  of  wom-  anly  thing  that  everybody  has,  a  little?  Do  you  think  I  have  it  too  much?&quot;  The  man  reshifted  his  weight  in  the  chair  and  his  hands  moved  in  the  air  diagrammatically;  a  restrained  agita-  tion  possessed  his  presence  like  a  soft  gustpassing  over  a  silver  pond.  &quot;I  think  there  are  several  things  working  here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;On  the  one  hand  you  have  this  aggressiveness  toward  the  man-you  go  up  to  him  at  par-  tics,  you  drag  him  on  shopping  expedi-  tions  that  make  him  uncomfortable,  you  go  to  bed  with  him,  you've  just  suggested,  on  your  initiative  rather  than  his.&quot;  She  sat  shocked.  It  hadn't  been  like  that.  Had  it?  Theman  went  on,  running  one  hand  through  his  hair  so  that  the  youthful  lock,  recoiling,  fell  farther  over  his  forehead.  &quot;Even  now,  when  the  affair  is  supposedly  buried,  you  continue  to  court  him  by  wearing  a  dress  that  had  a  special  meaning  for  him.&quot;  &quot;I've  explained  about  the  dress.&quot;  &quot;'Then  there  is  this  dimension,  which  we  keep  touching  on,  of  his  crooked  teeth,  of  him  being  effeminate,  feeble,  in  tatters;  of  you  being  in  comparison  healthy  and  masterful.  In  the  midst  of  an  embrace  you  discover  a  hole  in  his  undershirt.  It  confirms  your  suspicion  that  he  is  disintegrating,  that  you  are  destroying  him.  So  that,  by  way  of  re-  pair  in  a  sense,  you  take  him  to  bed.&quot;  &quot;But  he  was  fixe  in  bed.&quot;  &quot;At  the  same  time  you  have  these  notions  of  'womanliness&quot;  You  feel  guilty  at  being  the  dynamic  party  ;  hence  your  rather  doctrinaire  slavishness,  your  need  to  observe  that  his  fingernails  are      dirty.  Also  in  this  there  is  something  of  earth,  of  your  feelings  about  dirt,  earth,  the  country  versus  the  city,  the  natural  versus  the  unnatural.  The  city,  the  arti-  ficial,  represents  life  to  you;  earth  is  death.  This  man,  this  unbuttoned,  un-  washed  manwho  comes  to  you  in  the  country  and  is  out  of  his  element  shop-  ping  with  you  in  the  city,  is  of  the  earth.  By  conquering  him,  byentangling  him  in  your  clothes,  you  subdue  your  own  death;  more  exactly,  you  pass  through  it,  and  become  a  farm  girl,  an  earth-  girl,  who  has  survived  dying.  These  are  some  of  my  impressions.  It  is  along  these  lines,  I  think,  that  we  need  more  work.&quot;  She  felt  sorry  for  him.  There  it  was,  he  had  made  his  little  Thursday  effort,  and  it  was  very  pretty  and  clever,  and  used  most  of  the  strands,  but  it  didn't  hold  her;  she  escaped.  Shyly  she  glanced  at  the  air-conditioner  and  asked,  &quot;Could  that  be  turned  lower?  I  can  hardly  hear  you.&quot;  He  seemed  surprised,  rose  awkward-  ly,  and  turned  it  off.  She  giggled  again.  &quot;I'm  just  being  masterful.&quot;  He  re-  turned  to  his  chair  and  glanced  at  his  watch.  Street  noises-a  bus  shifting  gears,  a  woman  in  heels  walking  rapid-  ly-entered  the  room  through  the  new  silence  at  the  window,  and  diluted  its  unreal  air.  &quot;Can't  earth,&quot;  she  asked,  &quot;mean  life  as  much  as  death?&quot;  " b"He  shrugged,  dis-  pleased  with  himself.  &quot;In  this  sort  of  language,  op-  posites  can  mean  the  same  thing.&quot;  &quot;If  that's  what  I  saw  in  him,  what  did  he  see  in  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  feel  you  fishing  for  a  compliment.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not,  I'm  zot  fishing.  I  don't  want  compliments  from  you,  I  want  the  truth.  I  need  help.  I'm  ridiculously  unhappy,  and  I  want  to  know  why,  and  I  don't  feel  you're  telling  me.  I  feel  we're  at  cross-pur-  poses.&quot;  &quot;Can  you  elaborate  on  this?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  really  want  me  to?&quot;  He  had  become  total-  ly  still  in  his  chair,  rigid-she  brushed  away  the  impression-as  if  with  fright.  ''W  ell&quot;  -she  re-  turned  her  eyes  to  the  brass  catch  of  her  purse,  where  there  was  a  mute  focus  that  gave  her  le-  verage  to  lift  herself-  &quot;when  I  came  to  you,  I'd  got  the  idea  from  somewhere  that  by  this  time  something  would  have  happened  between  us,  that  I,  in  some  sort  of  way,  perfectly  controlled  and  safe,  would  have  ...  fallen  in  love  with  you.&quot;  She  looked  up  for  help,  and  saw  none.  She  went  on,  in  a  voice  that,  since  the  silencing  of  the  air-  conditioner,  seemed  harsh  and  blatant  to  her.  &quot;I  don't  feel  that's  happened.  What's  worse-I  might  as  well  say  it,  it's  a  waste  of  Harold's  money  if  I  keep  anything  back-I  feel  the  opposite  has  happened.  I  keep  getting  the  feeling  that  you've  fallen  in  love  with  me.&quot;  Now  she  hurried.  &quot;So  I  feel  tender  to-  ward  you,  and  want  to  protect  you,  and  pretend  not  to  reject  you,  and  it  gets  in  the  way  of  everything.  You  put  me  into  the  position  where  a  woman  can't  be  honest,  or  weak,  or  herself.  You  make  me  be  strategic,  and  ashamed  of  what  I  feel  toward  Paul,  because  it  bothers  you.  There.  That's  the  first  time  today  either  ofus  has  dared  mention  his  name.  You're  jealous.  I  pity  you.  At  least,  in  a  minute  or  two-I  saw  you  look  at  your  watch-I  can  go  out  into  the  street,  andgo  buy  a  cheesecake  or  something  at  the  bakery,  and  get  into  the  car  and  drive  through  the  traffic  over  the  bridge;  at  least  I  loved  some-  body  who  loved  me,no  matter  how  silly  you  make  the  reasons  for  it  seem.  But  you-I  can't  picture  you  ever  get-  ting  out  of  this  room,  or  getting  drunk,  or  making  love,  or  needing  a  bath,  or  anything.  I'm  sorry.&quot;  She  had  ex-  pected,  after  this  outburst,  that  she  would  have  tocry,  but  she  found  her-  self  staring  wide-eyed  at  the  man,  whose  own  eyes--it  must  have  been  the  watery  light  from  the  window--  looked  strained.  He  shifted  lazilyin  the  chair  and  spread  his  hands  on  the  glass  top  of  his  desk.  &quot;One  of  the  arresting  things  about  you,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;is  your  insistence  on  protecting  men.&quot;  &quot;But  I  wasn't  like  that  with  him.  I  mean,  I  knew  I  was  giving  him  some-  thing  he  needed,  but  I  did  feel  protected.  I  felt  like  nothing  when  I  was  with  him,  like  the-center  of  a  circle.&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  He  looked  at  his  watch,  and  his  nostrils  dilated  with  the  beginnings  of  a  sigh.  &quot;Well.&quot;  He  stood  and  made  worried  eyebrows.  A  little  off  guard,  she  stood  a  fraction  of  a  second  later.  &quot;Next  Thursday?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I'm  sure  you're  right,&quot;  she  said,  turning  at  the  door  to  smile;  it  was  a  big  countryish  smile,  regretful  at  the  edges.  The  white  of  it  matched,  he  noticed  with  an  interior  decorator's  eye,  her  hair,  her  suit,  and  the  white  of  her  pocketbook  and  her  shoes.  &quot;I  ess:  neu-  rotic.&quot;  She  closed  the  door.  The  sigh  that  he  had  begun  while  she  was  in  the  room  seemed  to  havebeen  suspended  until  she  had  left.  He  was  winning,  it  was  hap-  pening;  but  he  was  weary.  Alone,  in  a  soundless  psychic  motion  like  the  hemi-  spherical  protest  of  a  bubble,  he  subsided  into  the  tranquil  surface  of  the  furniture."