                 HOW  TO  TURN  BARTOK  INTO  A  FRUIT  BOWL  SINCE  the  advent  of  long-playing  phonograph  records,  many  of  us  have  found  ourselves  with  large  quantities  of  old  78-r.p.m.  records  on  hand,  and  the  problem  is:  What  to  do  with  them?  The  solution  is:  Make  them  into  fruit  bowls!  &quot;Fruit  bowls,  from  old  phonograph  records?&quot;  you  ask,  looking  at  me  as  if  I  might  be  slightly  &quot;off  my  turn-  table.&quot;  Yes,  indeed.  And  the  process  is  so  simple  that  you'll  wonder  why  you  hadn't  thought  of  it  yourself.  (Most  of  us,  I  fear,  fail  to  practice  regularly  the  art  of  thinking  of  simple  things.)  To  make  fruit  bowls,  first  select  your  rec-  ords.  You  will  require  one  record  for  each  bowl.  Only  the  regular  78s  will  do;  those  very  old,  very  thick  records  that  came  out  right  after  the  Edison  cylinders  won't  do,  unless  you  care  for  imitation  Etruscan  pottery  shards.  (Be-  sides,  if  you  go  back  that  far,  you  are  probably  on  puréed  fruits  and  have  no  need  for  fruit  bowls.)  Next,  preheat  your  oven  to  two  hundred  degrees.  Then  take  a  clean  tin  can  from  which  you  have  removed  the  lid  and  the  label.  Set  thecan,  open  side  down,  on  the  lower  rack  of  the  oven.  (The  larger  thecan,  the  roomier  the  bowl.)  Now  place  the  record  on  the  can,  with  the  record  label  exactly  in  the  center.  In  ten  to  fifteen  minutes  (check  it  occa-  sionally  by  peeking  in),  the  record  will  have  begun  to  melt  slightly,  and  the  sides  of  it  will  have  drooped  down  in  graceful,  wavy  folds  toward  the  sides  of  the  can.  The  longer  you  leave  it  in  the  oven,  the  deeper  your  bowl.  When  you  think  it  has  drooped  sufficiently,  remove  can  and  record  and  set  your  new  bowl  aside  to  cool.  Smaller  bowls,  suitable  for  nutsor  bonbons,  or  fudge,  for  that  matter,  may  be  similarly  fashioned  from  those  tiny,  toy-sized  records  of  &quot;'The  Dance  of  the  Sugar-Plum  Fairy&quot;  and  &quot;The  Farmer  in  the  Dell&quot;  that  your  children  have  dis-  carded  in  favor  of  Joan  Baez.  For  these,  use  frozen-juice  cans.  Any  of  these  bowls  are  sure  to  be-  come  conversation  pieces  when  placed  about  your  living  room.  People  will  ad-  mire  and  discuss  your  &quot;Guy  Lombardo  Bowls,&quot;  your  &quot;Kay  Kyser  Bowls,&quot;  your  &quot;Beethoven  Bowls,&quot;  or  your  &quot;Bartok  Bowls.&quot;  It  may  be  up  to  you  to  lead  off  the  discussion,  opening  perhaps  with  the  question  &quot;Oranges,  anyone?&quot;  or,  less  obliquely,  &quot;Does  anyone  here      feel  like  talking  about  these  conversation  pieces?&quot;  EACH  bowl,  you  will  find,  has  a|  |  character  of  its  own-a  kind  of|;  veiled,  pre-oven,  musical  personality.  One  clever  hostess  I  know  has  caused  a  mild  sensation  by  melting  an  old  Rose  Bampton  record;  she  now  invites  friends  over  to  see  her  &quot;Rose  Bowl&quot;-a  witty  pun  she  has  created  by  using  only  the  first  name  of  the  famous  singer!  There  are  limitless  possibilities  for  such  subtle  effects.  For  example,  you  could  fashion  bowls  from  Nelson  Eddy-Jeanette  MacDonald  records,  or  Flagstad-Mel-  chior  records  if  you're  classically  in-  clined.  Could  anything  be  more  suitable  for  pears?  Since  friends  will  inevitably  inspect  each  of  your  bowls  to  see  what  the  record  is  (or  was),  it  is  advisable  to  use  only  pleasant,  &quot;happy&quot;  records.  Imagine  the  inappropriate  melancholy  when  someone  gleefully  removes  all  the  jolly  oranges,  apples,  pears,  and  bananas  from  a  lovely  bowl  and  spies  &quot;In  the  Baggage  Coach  Ahead,&quot;  &quot;Old  Pal,  Why  Don't  You  Answer  Me?,&quot;  &quot;Hello,  Central,  Give  Me  Heaven,&quot;  or  that  downbeat  composition  inspired  by  the  death  of  Valentino,  &quot;There's  a  New  Star  in  Heaven  Tonight.&quot;  One  of  the  saddest  bowls  I  have  seen  is  a  rather  baroque,  heavily  fluted  affair,  highly  suitable,  I  am  forced  to  admit,  for  grapes  or  cher-  ries,  but  when  the  fruit  is  gone,  there  is  John  McCormack  singing  &quot;Desola-  tion.&quot;  A  pleasant,  happy,  decidedly  upbeat  bowl  can  be  made  from  &quot;The  Hut-Sut  Song&quot;  (Freddie  Martin  and  His  Or-  chestra,  Bluebird  B-11147).  A  cheer-  ful,  somewhat  Wedgwoody  bowl,  use-  ful  for  persimmons  or  papaws,  can  be  fashioned  from  &quot;Wabash  Cannon  Ball&quot;  (Roy  Acuff,  Okeh  04466).  The  trick  is  to  experiment.  Strive  for  novelty  and  appropriateness  as  well  as  utility.  For  a  pineapple  bowl,  try  &quot;Hello,  [REDACTED],  How  Are  You?&quot;  For  a  pair  of  bowls  to  keep  on  your  night  tables,  the  two  discs  from  the  Columbia  Masterworks  album  of  Mozart's  &quot;Eine  Kleine  Nachtmusik&quot;  all  butery  out  for  quick  conversion.  Before  you  have  made  many  fruit  bowls,  you  will  probably  discover,  and  perhaps  even  be  vexed  by,  the  fact  that  each  one  has  a  hole  in  its  bottom.  Soyez  tranguille!  This  immediately  suggests  their  alternative  use  as  flowerpots,  and  onecan  only  ask,  why  not?  The  holes,  like  those  in  regular  flowerpots,  will  provide  the  necessary  drainage.  The  Bruch  Concerto  No.  1  in  G  Minor  (Columbia  MM-517)  is  on  three  twelve-inch  discs,  and  your  three  resulting  large-size  bowls  (or  I  suppose  we  should  say  pots  now),  when  filled  with  a  mixture  of  rich  loam,  peat  moss,  and  sand,  and  planted  with  ivy  or  philo-  dendron,  are  certain  to  draw  astonished  comment  from  your  botanical  and  your  musical  friends.  Personally,  I  would  not  give  house-  room  to  bowls  made  from  old  phono-  graph  records-even  those  suitable  for  |i  nuts.  They  all  look  tacky  and  home-  |  -  made  to  me.  But  that,  of  course,  is  neither  here  nor  there.