 b"BET  TER  to  die  like  the  an-  cients,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;A  great  high  fever,  andyou  are  spirited  away.&quot;  She  must  have  had  in  mind  the  fever  that  had  marked  the  beginning  of  her  illness,  and  that,  without  surgery,  would  indeed  have  spirited  her  away  ina  few  days.  Instead,  she  had  had  all  the  &quot;ben-  efits&quot;  of  modern  medicine-two  major  operations,  sickening  tests,  transfusions,  a  cabinetful  of  drugs-and  after  four-  teen  months  she  was  still  alive.  The  first  operation  had  broken  the  fever  but  not  cured  her.  The  second,  to  which  she  had  submitted  at  the  doctors'  insistence  almost  exactly  a  year  after  the  first,  had  revealed  an  incurable  condi-  tion,  and  instead  of  seeing  fulfilled  their  promise  that  she  would  &quot;get  really  well&quot;  she  had  seen  strange  new  medicines  being  brought  into  her  room,  medicines  that  were  supposed  to  retard  the  wild  proliferation  of  the  cells,  and  that  the  doctors,  unwilling  to  tell  her  what  her  illness  was,  tried  to  pass  off  as  some-  thing  else,  until  one  night,  her  pain  keeping  her  awake,  her  suspicions  fully  roused,  and  her  questions  becoming  more  and  more  pressing,  one  of  her  sons,  himself  a  doctor,  told  her.  All  along,  he  had  thought  she  should  be  told,  believing  that  life  might  seem  lighter  to  her  and  each  moment  of  it  have  more  meaning  if  she  knew.  Nor  did  it  seem  right  that  she,  the  most  concerned,  should  be  the  least  informed.  Fears  confirmed  will  cause  as  much  alarm  as  fears  first  stirred.  Sit-  ting  upon  her  bed,  leaning  forward,  her  knees  bent,  she  looked  at  him  with  eyes  that  welled  with  thought  rather  than  with  tears,  and  that  her  thinned,  girlish  look  intensified  so  that  they  seemed  even  larger  than  they  were.  &quot;Cancer  .  .  .  no  less,&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;Now  let's  just  work  on  the  pain-on  the  pain  only-and  never  mind  the  rest.&quot;  It  was  April,  inSie-  na,  and  outside  in  the  garden  a  nightingale  was  singing.  They  lis-  tened  in  silence  to  the  notes  appealing,  and  he  thought  it  would  be  RITES  good  to  die  on  such  a  night,  and  the  verses  of  Keats  came  to  his  mind:  To  cease  upon  the  midnight  with  no  pain,  While  thou  art  pouring  forth  thy  soul  abroad  In  such  an  ecstasy!  He  eyed  the  little  bottle  of  opium  drops  on  her  night  table.  He  would  not  re-  move  it.  He  would  not  touch  it.  He  would  leave  it  there-though  many  mingled  voicestold  him  not  to-within  her  reach,  for  her  to  empty  &quot;to  the  drains,&quot;  if  she  so  wished.  He  almost  hoped-yes,  Ahoped-that  she  would  drink  it.  But  in  the  morning  the  bottle  was  still  there-full,  or  nearly.  The  maid  counted  out  the  prescribed  number  of  drops.  Forty.  But  forty  drops  had  not  relieved  the  pain  last  night.  Should  she  count  more,  the  maid  asked  her.  &quot;Oh,  my  dear,  I  wouldn't  count  them  at  all.  I  would  pour  it  all  out,  except  that  I  don't  want  to  hurt  you.&quot;  She  took  the  drops,  and  five  more,  then  lay  perfectly  still  and  resigned,  with  her  eyes  closed  and  her  arms  at  her  sides,  waiting  with  composure  for  the  pain  to  go.  And  she  continued  what  her  doctors  called  the  &quot;cure&quot;-the  new  medicine  from  [REDACTED].  But  she  looked  on  it  with  scorn,  as  on  something  weak      and  ineffectual-the  way  a  wine  drink-  er  looks  on  water  at  table.  One  of  the  doctors,  a  small,  sweet,  unpretentious  man  about  her  age,  who  had  become  very  attached  to  her,  was  hopeful.  He  sat  beside  her  and  tried  to  cheer  her.  &quot;How  long  more  do  you  think  this  can  go  on?&quot;  she  asked  him.  &quot;It  can't  goon  much  longer,  can  it,  Doctor?&quot;  &quot;But,  Madam,  why  do  you  say  that?  You  can  live  for  years.&quot;  &quot;Years?&quot;  &quot;But  certainly-five,  six,  seven,  and  perhaps  even  more.&quot;  It  was  just  what  she  didn't  want  to  hear.  &quot;If  it  were  a  question  of  weeks  or  months,  I  could  bear  it,  but  you  talk  of  years.  Imagine,  years  ...&quot;  The  old  doctor  was  wrong.  After  a  few  days,  there  came  a  crisis.  Now  the  doctors  multiplied  their  efforts,  and  though  she  was  too  ill  to  know  what  they  were  doing,  more  than  once,  with  her  hands,  she  tried  to  ward  them  off.  She  came  to  an  end  six  days  later-  not  slowly,  like  a  train  arriving  at  a  station,  but  swiftly  and  convulsively,  like  a  train  derailing.  She  died  hard,  be-  cause  her  roots  were  strong,  and  much  more  still  than  if  she  had  gone  gently  was  the  final  stillness  that  ensued.  HE  house  had  been  geared  for  sickness  so  long,  and  now  there  was  no  sickness  anymore-no  one  to  takecare  of,  or  stay  up  for,  or  worry  about.  Now  she  was  someone  only  to  be  missed.  They  began  putting  things.  aw  ay-cumbersome,  ugly  things  of  glass  and  white  enamel,  and  boxes  full  of  drugs.  &quot;Throw  them  away,&quot;  one  could  almost  hear  her  saying.  &quot;Clear  out  the  cup-  boards.  Open  all  the  windows.  Air,  air  the  house.&quot;  She  had  always  been  one  for  keeping  things  uncluttered,  one  for  spring  cleaning,  and  this  was  now  her  day.  Two  days  later,  four  men-by  a  happy  chance,  her  favorite  farmers  from  nearby-lifted  the  bier,  bore  it  out  into  the  sunny  air,  and  laid  it  on  the  open  hearse.  Fronds  brushed  it  as  it  passed  down  under  a  tunnellikedrive  of  ilex  trees.  On  the  highway,  hedges  and  ditches  were  " b"crowded  with  spring  flowers.  From  the  highway,  the  procession,  on  foot,  turned  left  along  an  unpaved  country  road,  and  now  there  were  fields  of  clover  on  each  side,  and  vines  in  ten-  der  leaf,  and  olive  trees  with  tiny  yellow  blossoms,  and  ripening  peas  and  broad  beans  in  their  pods,  and  the  wheat  undulated  by  the  wind-all  things  sheloved,  things  she  had  tried  to  capture  with  her  brush.  &quot;How  sur-  prised  they  would  be,&quot;she  once  had  said,  &quot;those  people  who  praise  me  as  a  mother,  if  they  knew  that  in  my  lifetime  perhaps  my  children  never  gave  me  so  much  pleasure  as  the  re-  flection  that  the  sky  makes  on  the  leaves.&quot;  The  road  climbed  up  through  a  wood.  At  first,  there  were  acacias  and  honeysuckle  on  each  side,  then  chestnut  trees-great,  ancient  chestnut  trees  with  hollow  trunks  and  branches  sprouting  with  the  newest  leaves.  The  procession  took  an  even  smaller  road,  which  led  to  the  brow  of  the  hill  up  on  the  right.  The  slope  above  the  road  was  a  rock  garden  of  wild  and  flowering  plants  whose  leaves  vied  in  beauty  with  the  blossoms.  On  topof  the  hill,  they  came  to  four  cypresses  and  to  the  tiny  country  cemetery  enclosed  by  lichened  walls.  Her  grave  had  been  dug  next  to  that  of  an  old  farmer  who  had  died  eight  ornine  years  before.  Small,  witty,  graceful,  and  a  little  quaint,  he  was  remembered  by  everyone  with  pleasure.  She  was  laid  in  her  grave.  Though  the  parish  priest  was  present,  there  was  no  service,  tribute,  or  any  kind  of  benediction,  for  she  had  never  been  baptized  and  didn't  go  to  church.  A  mason-a  skillful  man,  who  did  his  work  with  intense  passion,  and  whom  she  had  known  well,  for  he  had  re-  cently  restored  part  of  her  house-  quickly  covered  the  vault  with  terra-  cotta  tiles,  laying  them  side  by  side  with  mortar.  As  usual,  he  worked  with  care  and  concentration.  She  would  have  ad-  mired  him.  At  the  end,  he  flicked  the  mortar  off  his  trowel.  That  quick  flick-  ing  of  the  trowel  seemed  to  her  son  a  kind  of  benediction,  and  the  mortar  that  was  flung  from  it  holy  water.  She  had  never  beenfond  of  prayers,  cere-  monies,  sermons;  she  had  always  been  fond  of  watching  skilled  artisans  at  work.  And  this  flipping  of  the  trowel  seemed  so  much  more  fitting,  so  much  more  to  her  taste,  than  any  kind  of  religious  benediction.  It  seemed  to  lend  a  touch  of  joy  and  freshness  to  the  burial.  Afterward,  the  parish  priest-a  nice,  if  somewhat  colorless,  young  man-said  how  sorry  and  embarrassed  he  was  not  to  have  given  such  a  kind  lady  a  blessing.  He  would  have  given  it,  he  added,  even  though  she  was  not  religious,  ex-  cept  that  he  thought  she  would  not  really  have  wanted  it.  The  grave  was  to  be  borderedby  four  bars  of  travertine.  A  stonecutter  in  town-a  gentle  little  man,  at  the  end  of  his  career-advised  her  sons  that  if  they  wanted  truly  fine  travertine  and  good  cornices,  they  should  go  to  a  vil-  lage  twenty-odd  miles  away,  where  there  were  quarries  of  it.  And  there  they  went,  and  it  was  like  some  of  the  trips  they  had  taken  with  her  in  her  good  days  when,  one  or  the  other  of  them  at  the  wheel,  they  would  go  out  for  long  drives  to  some  old  village  or  country  church  and  stop  for  coffee  in  the  village  square.  They  came  back  with  four  heavy  cornices  of  travertine.  The  stonecutter  engraved  her  name  in  mar-  ble,  her  name  and  dates-no  mournful  inscription,  nothing  else.  He  did  his  work  by  hand.  &quot;You  won't  find  any-  one  else  who  does  it  by  hand  now.  I  am  the  only  one  in  town,&quot;  he  said.  Certainly,  herson  thought,  had  she  had  a  chance,  she  would  have  chosen  this  gentle  man  to  carve  her  name.  And  it  struck  him  that  all  during  her  illness  and  till  the  moment  of  her  death  she  had  had  no  say  about  what  was  done  to  her,  that  she  had  more  or  less  given  in  to,  reluctantly  agreed  with,  anything  the  doctors  ordered  for  her,  but  that  from  the  moment  of  her  death  on  everything  that  happened  appeared  to  fall  in  with  her  wishes,  though  she  had  left  none,  though  she  had  let  none  be  known.  It  was,  after  so  much  drear-  iness,  a  pleasant  observation;  at  last,  it  seemed  to  him,  she  had  taken  things  in  hand,  in  her  own  strong  hands,  and  he  could  almost  see  them,  those  admirable  hands,  come  alive  again,  directing,  doing. "