  A  TRIP  TO  LEVERTON  HE  sliding  doors  that  led  into  my  bedroom  were  difficult  to  open.  One  spring  morning  while  I  was  at  home  in  [REDACTED]  on  a  break  from  school,  I  wasawakened  by  someone  trying  to  open  them,  and  when  I  called  out,  my  grandmother  answered.  I  was  sleeping  late,  having  the  night  before  been  with  some  friends  from  the  local  colleges  who  belonged  to  a  student  or-  ganization  called  the  Committee  on  Appeal  for  Human  Rights,  They  had  worked  late  into  the  night  preparing  a  manifesto,  which  they  hoped  would  be  printed  in  the  next  day's  papers,  stating  the  grievances,  philosophy,  intentions,  and  demands  of  the  student  movement.  I  had  been  in  school  in  [REDACTED],  a  thousand  miles  away,  when  this  phase  of  the  social  protest  began  with  a  sit-in  in  Greensboro,  [REDACTED],  and  I  had  kept  up  with  the  news  of  it  because  it  was  the  first  widely  publicized  move-  ment  by  Negroes  who  were  all  of  my  generation.  Soon  after,  however,  I  had  become  much  more  involved.  My  mother  had  called  to  tell  me  that  first  one,  then  another  of  my  friends  had  been  arrested  and  was  in  jail,  refusing  bond,  for  non-violent  protests.  They  were  all  students  in  one  or  another  of  the  five  small  liberal-arts  colleges  in  the  Atlanta  University  Center.  I  felt  useless  on  my  anonymous  and  detached  campus.  I  remembered  high  school,  es-  pecially  two  sisters  from  whom  I  was  so  inseparable  that  most  people  thought  we  were  all  three  sisters.  Together  we  attended  every  football  game  our  team  played.  When  we  were  not  together,  we  kept  in  touch  by  phone,  and  what  we  talked  about  was  of  no  special  con-  sequence  to  anyone  but  ourselves.  We  were  taught  that  we  were  children  of  middle-class  Americans,  and  although  our  parents  were  proud  to  be  Negroes,  the  fact  that  we  were  Negroes  was  em-  phasized  at  school  mainly  during  annual  Negro  History  Week.  Montgomery  and  Little  Rock  made  some  impression,  though  a  brief  one.  But  now,  just  one  year  after  high  school,  the  moment  was  theirs,  with  all  its  historic  implications.  The  realities  of  the  day  transcended  their  comfortable  surroundings,  and  I  was  not  a  part  of  their  physical  suffer-  ing.  Our  spring  vacations  did  not  coin-  cide,  and  while  I  was  home  I  tried  to  lend  them  support-mostly  moral-  wherever  and  whenever  I  could.  And  if  my  being  with  them  late  into  the  night  didn't  really  help  the  movement,  it  nevertheless  gave  me  a  sense  of  par-  ticipation.  Through  the  rest  of  the  For  more  than  a  century  John  Wwiddicomb  makers  of  fine  furniture  in  traditional    night,  I  had  tossed  and  turned,  restless  with  excitement  over  the  manifesto,  and  when  my  grandmother  came  in  I  was  still  caught  up  in  the  vigorous  spirit  of  such  sentences  as  &quot;''Today's  youth  will  not  sit  by  submissively  while  being  denied  all  of  the  rights,  privileges,  and  joys  of  life.&quot;  So  it  was  not  hard  for  me  to  snap  awake  when  she  entered.  Sitting  beside  me  on  the  bed,  she  said,  &quot;I  know  it's  Saturday,  but  I  thought  maybe,  while  it's  still  early,  you'd  get  up  and  drive  me  home.  We  could  be  back  here  before  any  of  your  friends  are  up.&quot;  By  &quot;home,&quot;  she  meant  a  place  I  shall  call  Leverton-the  small  [REDACTED]  city  where  she  hadmet  and  married  my  grandfather  and  had  reared  their  children.  When  he  died,  many  years  before  I  was  born,  he  was  buried  there.  Many  of  their  old  friends  still  lived  in  Leverton-widows  and  widowers  for  the  most  part.  My  own  family  had  moved  from  Leverton  ten  years  be-  fore,  and  my  grandmother,  who  had  always  lived  with  us,  halfheartedly  came,  too.  But  for  years  she  found  many  reasons,  many  memories,  to  take  her  back  to  Leverton  almost  every  weekend.  When  we  first  moved  away,  she  travelled  the  thirty-six  miles  by  bus.  She  was  independent  and  healthy,  and  preferred  going  alone  so  that  she  could  have  the  time  all  to  herself.  In  her  younger  days,  she  was  tall  and  stout,  with  steel-gray  eyes  and  long,  thin  hair  that  reached  below  her  waist.  Most  of  the  time,  she  wore  it  in  two  braids  wrapped  around  the  back  of  her  head  in  a  bun.  She  was  self-consciously  a  Negro,  although  anyone  who  didn't  know  her  would  have  thought  from  her  fair  appearance  that  she  was  white.  She  travelled  quite  a  bit,  and  during  her  days  of  fierce  loyalty  to  the  Brook-  lyn  Dodgers  she  and  I  would  some-  times  come  to  New  York  in  the  summer  to  see  them  play  at  Ebbets  Field.  She  never  allowed  herself  to  be  bored.  When  she  went  to  Leverton,her  day  followed  a  pretty  standard  pattern.  First,  she  usually  went  to  visit  an  in-  valid  friend,  whose  favorite  fruit  was  kumquats,  'and  because  they  were  dif-  ficult  to  get  in  Leverton  my  grand-  mother  would  take  her  a  pound  or  two.  Later,  my  grandmother  would  walk  halfway  across  the  town  to  see  Mr.  William  Long  (Will  to  his  friends),  to  whom  she  took  the  week's  news-  papers,  which  were  in  short  supply  in  Leverton,  and  the  Negro  magazines,  such  as  Crisis  andEbony,  in  equally  short  supply.  Black  and  smooth  as  an  onyx,  and  always  clad  in  Liberty  Bell  overalls,  Mr.  Will  was  soft-spoken  and  a  man  of  very  few  words.  But  he  was  good-  natured  and  generous,  and  a  little  more  talkative  than  usual  during  my  grand-  mother's  brief  visits.  From  his  house,  she  would  gradually  make  her  way  to  her  church,  about  six  blocks  away.  She  took  flowers  for  the  pulpit,  and  articles  on  Negro  history  for  the  Sunday-school  bulletin  board.  She  also  checked  the  board  to  find  out  which  of  the  members  were  ill,  and  made  mental  notes  to  send  cards  if  they  lived  too  far  away  for  her  to  get  by  to  see  them.  If  the  minister,  who  lived  out  of  town,  was  there,  she  would  leave  a  contribution  with  him.  If  not,  she'd  leave  it  with  one  of  the  deacons.  And  every  few  weeks  she  would,  near  the  end  of  her  &quot;  rounds,  deposit  at  the  bus  station  her  shopping  bag  full  offresh  vegetables  from  Mr.  Will's  garden,  then  walk  from  there  to  the  edge  of  town,  where  a  narrow,  crooked  path  led  into  the  cemetery.  She  would  pass  the  two  or  three  fam-  ily  vaults  and  the  hundreds  of  plain  white,  square  [REDACTED]-marble  head-  stones-graves  of  former  Leverton  soldiers  who  had  died  either  defending  the  Confederacy  against  the  Yankees  or  defending  the  country  against  for-  eign  enemies.  She  would  walk  past  those  graves  on  a  single  path  through  neatly  laid-out  plots  to  the  end  of  the  [|  |  cemetery,  where  a  thick  row  of  hedges  ||  él  and  uncontained  growth  distinctly  cut  joff  the  main  all-white  cemetery  and  concealed  from  sight  all  that  was  be-  hind  it.  Through  a  small  opening  in  this  thicket,  my  grandmother  would  make  her  way  until  she  found  another  path,  strewn  with  dead,  brown  grass  and  dry,  severed  tree  branches  that  had  been  cut  in  the  well-kept  part  of  the  cemetery  and  flung  carelessly  over  the  hedge  border.  This  accumulation,  along  with  spreading  kudzu  and  other  creep-  ing  things,  had,  over  the  years,  com-  ||  pletely  covered  the  unattended  and  sunken  graves  back  there  except  for  my  grandmother's  plot  and  one  or  two  others.  For  some  years  past,  the  green  wil-  derness  that  grew  on  the  far  side  of  these  graves  had  been  too  dense  to  see  [|  through,  but  in  recent  months  that  land  had  been  cleared  and  houses  had  been  built  almost  up  to  the  graves.  A  thin,  insubstantial  wire  fence  with  in-  termingling  vines  provided  the  only  ||  protection  from  intruders.  My  grand-  mother  had,  for  some  time,  hired  Mr.  Will  to  keep  the  grass  and  hedges  cut  around  her  plot,  and  he  had  voluntarily  erected  a  white  picket  fence  around  the     square  cubicleto  set  off  its  border  of  evergreens.  He  had  also  planted  a  sapling  in  the  left-hand  corner,  just  be-  low  the  foot  of  my  grandfather's  grave.  Although  Mr.  Will  was  the  only  person  who  tended  the  plot,  the  city  nevertheless  billed  my  grandmother  monthly  for  upkeep.  She  had  never  complained  about  this,  and  had  paid  the  sum  regularly.  She  had  allowed  my  mother  to  buy  money  orders  and  to  keep  in  a  lockbox  the  money-order  stubs,  along  with  the  deeds,  insurance  policies,  and  records  of  every  monetary  transaction  she  had  ever  carried  out.  I  had  no  doubt  whatever  that  no  over-  sight  in  payment  had  occurred.  Yet  in  the  past,  whenever  my  grand-  mother  had  visited  the  lot,  it  was  in  al-  most  as  bad  shape  as  the  other  neglected  graves.  Finally,  after  many  months,  she  had  assumed  that  the  city  did  not  intend  to  clean  the  lot,  and  it  was  then  that  she  had  hired  Mr.  Will.  The  Fri-  day  before  my  grandmother  asked  me  to  take  her  to  Leverton,  she  showed  me  a  bill  she  had  got  from  the  city  of  Leverton  for  monthly  ground  main-  tenance  of  her  cemetery  plot,  along  with  a  notice  that  unless  the  bill  was  paid  the  property  would  be  seized  by  the  city.  It  was  to  see  about  this  whole  matter  that  she  wanted  me  to  take  her  to  Leverton.  OME  time  before  this,  when  my  grandmother  was  about  seventy-  eight  years  old,  the  first  signs  of  arteri-  osclerosis  had  appeared,  in  the  form  of  brief  memory  lapses.  During  some  of  these  lapses,  my  mother,  who  had  been  closer  to  her  than  anyone  else  since  my  grandfather  died,  became  the  object  of  her  deep  distrust  and  harsh  verbal  at-  tacks.  The  doctor  had  warned  my  mother  to  expect  this,  and  to  expect  not  to  be  recognized  for  short-or  even  for  long-periods  of  time.  He  explained  that  sometimes  my  grandmother's  mem-  ory  would  be  faultless  and  at  other  times  the  realities  of  life,  if  not  com-  pletely  abandoned,  would  be  arranged  in  complicated  fantasies,  and  that  to  tryto  reason  with  her  then  would  be  a  frustrating  and  unhappy  experience.  Nevertheless,  Mother  always  tried  to  make  things  clear  to  my  grandmother,  andwas  seldom  quite  able  to  accept  completely  her  periods  of  irrationality.  The  nights  were  harder  on  my  grandmother  than  the  days.  Once,  for  several  nights  in  succession  she  called  out  to  my  mother  and,  thinking  she  was  someone  else,  told  her  that  her  daughter  had  taken  her  every  night  to  a  different  house  to  sleep  among  stran-  gers.  &quot;I  sleep  in  a  house  like  this,  but    it's  not  my  own,&quot;  she'd  say.  &quot;I  don't  like  it.  I  don't  know  anyone  here.  Please  take  me  home.&quot;  When  she  could  not  go  back  to  sleep,  she  would  ask  for  a  small  glass  of  bourbon,  and,  as  my  mother  had  cleared  this  with  the  doc-  tor,  she  would  give  it  to  her.  Some-  times  it  quieted  her;  other  times  my  mother  would  have  to  sit  with  her  until  she  fell  asleep.  My  grandmother  had  always  han-  dled  money  efficiently,  but  now  she  misplaced  quite  a  lot  of  it.  The  doctor  suggested  that  my  mother  take  out  guardianship  papers,  so  that  she  would  have  entire  charge  of  the  money,  but  this  idea  didn't  appeal  to  my  mother,  who  felt  that  to  do  something  that  might  in  some  way  justify  my  grand-  mother's  occasional  accusations  would  be  more  than  she  could  bear.  So,  in  spite  of  the  doctor's  advice,  my  grand-  mother  was  allowed  to  keep  her  money.  This  often  led  us  on  wild  searches  for  sums  ranging  from  one  dollar  to  one  hundred.  And  because  we  were  all  sus-  pect  until  we  found  it,  we  were  all  equally  eager  to  locate  it.  Oddly  enough,  the  person  who  pro-  vided  the  most  relief  for  us  in  this  dif-  ficult  situation  was  usually  my  grand-  mother  herself.  Often,  she  would  come  into  a  room  a  few  minutes  after  telling  usof  something  that  had  never  really  happened  and  say,  &quot;You  know,  I  do  the  craziest  things  sometimes.  I'm  real-  ly  losing  my  mind.&quot;  And,  speaking  to  my  mother  for  perhaps  the  first  time  in  three  or  four  days,  she  would  clear  up  the  whole  confusion,  set  the  details  in  order,  and  laugh  so  hard  at  her  previous  fantasy  as  to  make  us  all  laugh  with  her  in  relief.  Later,  she  would  most  likely  send  for  the  evening  paper  and  read  it  from  front  to  back,  occasionally  commenting  quite  lucidly  on  some  item  she  thought  was  of  interest.  And  so  I  was  easily  persuaded  to  take  her  to  Leverton  that  Saturday,  not  only  be-  cause  my  mother  was  fearful  of  her  going  out  alone  but  also  because  my  grandmother  was  more  coherent  than  she  had  been  in  several  days.  I  thought  it  would  be  good  for  her  to  have  some-  thing  to  occupy  her  mind.  HE  had  already  read  the  Saturday-  morning  paper  when  she  came  into  my  bedroom.  &quot;The  paper  predicts  showers,  but  I  don't  see  a  single  cloud,&quot;  she  said.  And  as  we  pulled  out  onto  the  freeway  at  a  little  after  eleven,  the  sun  was  young  and  bright,  and  where  it  shone  on  dew-laden  fields  of  green  wheat  or  acres  of  red  clover  the  re-  flection  was  almost  blinding.  Few  cars  were  travelling  in  our  direction.  Most    of  them  were  coming  from  the  small  towns  along  the  way,  their  drivers  headed  for  a  day's  labor  in  the  city.  We  passed  red-and-white  Burma-Shave  signs  with  slogans  we  both  knew  from  memory.  The  long,  white,  unobstructed  stretches  of  highway  led  us  along  smoothly.  Sometimes  I  played  the  radio  and  we  would  listen  without  talking.  But  about  fifteen  miles  out  of  the  city  the  reception  became  poor,  and  I  had  to  turn  it  off.  &quot;'The  cemetery  lot  was  a  gift,&quot;  my  grandmother  suddenly  said,  speaking  almost  as  if  we  had  been  having  a  con-  versation  all  along.  &quot;My  mother  was  a  slave  before  I  was  born,  and  the  man  whose  farm  she  lived  on,  Mr.  John  Robert  Henry,  gave  it  to  her  just  be-  fore  he  died.  Later,  she  was  freed  and  the  people  on  the  farm  knew  about  the  gift.  They  didn't  need  to  see  any  legal  papers  as  long  as  Mr.  John  Rob-  ert  Henry  had  given  his  word.  And  they  knew  he  had.  My  mother  gave  me  the  land  later  on,  and  I  plan  to  tell  them  at  the  City  Building  just  how  it  all  happened.  I  know  I  can  work  it  all  out,&quot;  she  concluded,  full  of  confidence  in  the  relationship  between  slave  and  master.  I  was  bothered  by  her  story  for  many  reasons,  the  chief  of  which  was  that  I  didn't  have  any  respect  for  any  slaveholder,  dead  or  not,  and  to  me  his  word  meant  nothing.  But  my  grandmother  seemed  perfectly  satisfied  that  her  explanation  would  be  accept-  able  to  the  authorities,  so  for  the  time  being  I  let  the  matter  rest.  Driving  through  thecenter  of  Lev-  erton,  I  was  reminded  of  the  pictures  on  church  fans  in  which  a  devout  young  white  Christian  family  is  shown  walk-  ing  hand  in  hand  up  a  pebbled  path  to  a  little  white  church  on  a  hill.  The  town  was  laid  out  in  a  perfect  circle  around  a  square  that  featured  the  most  revered  of  its  long-dead  heroes,  General  Lever,  posed  in  an  oratorical  gesture  atop  a  pedestal  overlooking  gray  pigeons  and  white  spittoons.  My  grandmother  had  an  easy  acquaintance  with  all  the  townspeople,  including  the  sheriff  and  the  local  politicians,  who  had  all  been  patrons  of  my  grandfather's  barber-  shop.  Though  polite,  and  probably  in  most  cases  decent  enough  to  their  wives,  these  men  had  the  annoying  habit  of  addressing  every  Negro,  regardless  of  age,  by  his  or  her  first  name,  so,  whenever  possible,  I  tried  to  avoid  them.  Farther  along,  we  passed  the  Meth-  odist  church-a  modest  white  edifice  with  four  Doric  columns  on  its  porch.  No  Negro  had  ever  seen  the  inside  of  it,      not  even  to  clean  it,  and  doubtless  none  ever  would.  We  passed  a  dead-end  street  that  I  had  never  seen  before,  and  my  grandmother  told  me  that  this  was  where  the  new  City  Building  was.  -  First,  however,  she  wanted  to  go  by  the  cemetery.  I  drove  there,  but  as  we  came  to  the  road  that  wound  around  it  I  saw  that  a  deep  washed-out  gutter  would  make  it  impossible  to  reach  the  hedge  border  in  the  car.  I  stopped  just  short  of  the  gutter,  and  my  grand-  mother  and  I  started  to  cross  it  on  foot.  She  was  already  ahead  of  me,  but  she  could  not  get  acrossalone.  I  tookher  by  the  arm  and,  balancing  myself  against  a  fallen  branch,  boosted  her  forward,  and  in  a  moment  we  had  gone  in  through  the  narrow  entrance.  Nothinghad  changed  since  my  last  visit  there.  A  cloud  of  red  dust  from  the  disturbed  hedges  enveloped  us  and  settled  in  our  noses  and  onour  clothes,  and  the  high,  decumbent  grass  made  our  legs  and  arms  itch  and  sting.  Through  the  growth,  we  made  our  way  to  my  grandfather's  grave  and  found  hardly  a  grain  of  sand  out  of  its  proper  place.  In  the  left-hand  corner  was  a  budding  little  tree,  surroundedby  neatly  blocked  hedges  and  green  grass  that  looked  like  a  carpet.  The  simple  headstone  that  marked  the  grave  was  clean  and  white,  and  the  mound  of  earth  beneath  it  was  neat  and  solid.  In  this  peaceful  space,  one  could  momen-  tarily  shut  out  the  ugly  jungle  that  sur-  rounded  it,  but  the  bark  of  a  dog  in  an  adjoining  back  yard  was  ferocious  and  wild  as  he  thrust  himself  at  us  against  the  fence.  The  dust  and  heat  rising  around  us  and  the  dog's  barking  and  lunging  made  me  anxious  and  im-  patient,  and  I  persuaded  my  grand-  mother  to  leave.  FEW  minutes  later,  driving  again,  we  reached  the  dead-end  street  and  drew  up  in  front  of  a  new,  one-storyred  brick  building  surround-  ed  by  a  gravel  walkway.  This  was  the  place  the  bill  and  notice  had  come  from.  I  had  intended  to  remain  in  the  car,  but  when  my  grandmother  got  out  she  turned  as  if  she  expected  me  to  follow.  There  was  no  one  ahead  of  us  in-  side,  The  only  person  in  the  room  was  the  clerk,  a  young  woman  not  much  older  than  I.  &quot;'That's  Ella  Mae  Stevens,&quot;  my  grandmother  whispered  to  me.  &quot;I  re-  member  when  she  was  born.&quot;  Ella  Mae  Stevens  looked  up  from  her  desk,  and  my  grandmother,  pull-  ing  the  city's  letter  from  her  hand-  bag,  said,  &quot;Good  morning,  Miss  Stevens.  I'm  Frances  Wilson,  and  I'd  like  ,  to  see  someone  about  a  notice  I  received  from  the  city  this  week.&quot;  Without  getting  up,  Ella  Mace  i{  Stevens  told  my  grandmother  to  be  seated,  and  continued  riffling  through  papers  on  her  desk.  Afterabout  fifteen  minutes,  in  which  neither  my  grand-  mother  nor  I  spoke,  Ella  Mae  Stevens  went  out  of  the  room  and  in  a  few  minutes  came  back  carrying  a  manila  folder.  &quot;Now,  Frankie,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;let's  see  what  your  trouble  is.&quot;  My  grandmother  gathered  up  her  black  handbag  and  gray  gloves  from  her  lap  and  started  over  to  the  counter  that  separated  the  office  from  the  recep-  tion  area.  &quot;I  received  this  notice-&quot;  she  began.  &quot;Yes,  I  know,&quot;  Ella  Mae  Stevens  said.  &quot;Have  you  got  your  proof  of  ownership?&quot;  &quot;The  man  who  gave  my  mother  the  property  many  years  ago  was  Mr.  John  Robert  Henry.&quot;  &quot;You  have  any  papers  or  anything  like  that?&quot;  &quot;The  land  was  a  gift,&quot;  my  grand-  mother  said,  &quot;and  no  one  has  ever  questioned  us  about  it.  Mr.  John  Rob-  ert  Henry  was  well  known  in  this  town.  His  father-&quot;  &quot;Well,  Frankie,&quot;  Ella  Mae  Stevens  drawled,  shakingher  head,  &quot;allI  know  is  I'm  supposed  to  tell  you  you're  go-  ing  to  have  to  pay  the  city  to  keep  this  lot  up,  or  you  might  have  some  trouble.&quot;  &quot;But  just  this  morning  I  went  over  there  and  the  city  hasn't  done  anything  for  my  property,&quot;  my  grandmother  said,  raising  her  voicea  little.  &quot;'Your  lot's  clean,  isn't  it?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  but  Mr.  Will  is  the  one  who-&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  don't  know  about  all  that,  but  I  do  know  that  you're  going  to  have  to  pay  this  bill  and  continue  to  pay  the  city  as  long  as  you  claim  to  hold  title  to  the  property.&quot;  As  I  stood  there,  hardly  able  to  con-  tain  myself,  I  thought  I  could  see  what  the  city  was  driving  at  through  Ella  Mae  Stevens.  After  all,  the  other  peo-  ple  who  owned  cemetery  land  behind  the  hedge  border  had  allowed  their  property  to  decline.  Most  of  the  Ne-  groes  in  Leverton  could  ill  afford  to  pay  even  the  small  amount  of  money  the  city  was  asking  to  keep  up  the  lots.  Nor  would  they  dare  question  the  city  fa-  thers  if,  when  the  Negroes  couldn't  pay,  their  land  was  taken  from  them.  It  was  obvious  that  the  city  wanted  the  land,  possibly  to  expand  the  main  cemetery  for  whites  only,  or  possiblyto  make  pleasanter  back  yards  or  convenient   driveways  for  the  people,  the  sheriff  included,  who  owned  newly  built  houses  on  the  other  side.  At  any  rate,  it  was  clear  that  the  city  wanted  to  do  away  with  the  graves  behind  the  hedge  border.  I  was  about  to  suggest  that  my  grandmother  come  away  with  me  and  get  a  lawyer  when  I  realized  what  the  city  of  Leverton  had  to  offer  in  that  line-home-grown  lawyers  and  magis-  trates,  loyal  to  their  constituents  and  to  the  people  with  whom  they'd  grown  up.  In  addition  to  that,  my  grandmoth-  er  had  only  the  word  of  Mr.  John  Robert  Henry,  and,  besides,  she  was  not  really  up  to  any  complicated  legal  involvement.  I  remained  silent,  know-  ing  that  if  I  interfered  my  grandmoth-  er  would  be  upset.  Yet  how  could  I  not  explain  that  everything  my  friends,  whom  she  had  watched  grow  up-the  ones  she  prayed  for  when  they  went  on  Freedom  Rides,  the  ones  she  wor-  ried  over  when  they  marched  on  picket  lines,  the  ones  who  daily  faced  the  screaming,  hostile  crowds  in  front  of  stores  with  segregated  lunch  counters,  the  same  people  she  recognized  on  tele-  vision  and  in  the  newspapers  as  my  friends-everything  they  stood  for  was  being  compromised  as  I  stood  there  silent.  I  watched  my  grandmother  as  she  stood  fora  few  minutes  withher  finger-  tips  tensely  planted  on  the  edge  of  the  counter.  Finally,  she  turned  to  me  and  said,  &quot;I  guess  we'd  better  go.&quot;  Without  looking  at  my  grandmother,  the  clerk  handed  the  bill  back  to  her  and  said,  &quot;All  right,  Frankie,  it's  up  to  you.&quot;  As  we  turned  to  leave,  my  grand-  mother  accidentally  dropped  her  hand-  bag  on  the  floor.  I  stooped  to  pick  it  up,  and  she  walked  on.  When  I  got  to  the  door,  she  was  having  difficulty  get-  ting  it  open.  I  took  her  by  the  arm  and  helped  her  outside.  From  the  narrow  porch  of  the  building,  we  could  see  the  cemetery.  The  smell  of  freshly  cut  grass  travelled  easily  through  the  soft  morning  air.  We  got  back  in  the  car,  and  I  turned  it  around  and  headed  for  the  road  that  led  to  Mr.  Will'shouse.  &quot;No,  let's  not  go  there  today,&quot;  my  grandmother  said.  &quot;I'm  a  little  tired,  and,  besides,  I  think  I'd  like  to  go  home.&quot;  I  could  think  of  nothing  to  say  that  would  not  have  been  an  angry  denun-  ciation  of  the  city  and  everything  in  it.  But  I  knew  that  words  like  that  would  not  have  comforted  my  grand-  mother,  who  knew  and  loved  every  inch  of  the  town  and  all  the  memories  it  held.  I  drove  fast  through  Leverton,   buta  red  traffic  light  brought  me  to  a  screeching  haltin  frontof  the  court-  house.  On  the  steps  sat  men  whose  posture  and  expression  were  all  the  same.  'They  looked  neither  forward  nor  backward,  and  not  even  the  sound  of  the  screaming  automobile  tires  stirred  them  from  their  poses.  I  was  well  out  of  town  before  I  looked  at  my  grandmother,  so  silent  and  so  old.  I  wanted  to  speak  to  her,  but  I  did  not  want  to  intrude  upon  her  thoughts,  whatever  and  wherever  they  were.  The  day  became  quite  warm.  We  stopped  for  gas  and  a  Coke  at  a  small  filling  station  next  to  a  wide  field  with  grazing  sheep-a  rare  sight  in  that  area.  I  handed  my  grandmother  her  Coke,  and  she  wrapped  her  white  linen  hand-  kerchief  around  it  because  the  ice-cold  bottle  chilled  her  thin  hands.  She  looked  out  abstractedly  at  the  sheep,  but  I  was  not  sure  whether  she  really  saw  them  or  not.  ‘N7HEN  we  got  home,  we  had  a  late  lunch,  and  my  grandmother  went  to  take  a  nap-a  luxury  she  had  never  allowed  herself  until  recently.  I  took  this  time  to  tell  my  mother  what  had  happened  on  our  trip,  sparing  her  none  of  the  exhausting  details  of  my  own  feelings.  She  didn't  seem  sur-  prised,  and  I  found  her  reassuringly  sympathetic  asI  told  her  of  my  anguish  over  not  having  interceded  at  the  City  Building.  &quot;At  any  rate,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you've  satisfied  your  grandmother  by  taking  her  down  there,  and  now  that's  all  behind.&quot;  Later,  when  the  day  reached  eve-  ning,  I  went  out  for  an  early  edition  of  the  Sunday  paper.  The  Governor  was  in  the  headlines.  He  had  said  that  the  students'  manifesto  had  not  been  writ-  ten  by  students  in  the  [REDACTED]  school  system-or  even  adults  in  this  country,  for  that  matter.  I  had  just  gone  back  into  the  house  and  settled  myself  in  the  den  along  with  my  mother  when  I  heard  my  grand-  mother  coming  down  the  hall  to  join  us.  Her  steps  were  hard  and  sure,  and  when  she  entered  the  room  she  looked  rested.  &quot;I've  slept  quite  a  long  while,&quot;  she  said  to  us.  &quot;Longer  than  I  intended.  Guess  I'll  have  to  do  it  next  week.&quot;  &quot;Do  what?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  had  planned  to  ask  you  to  take  me  to  Leverton  to  see  about  a  bill  the  city  sent  me  yester-  day.  But  it's  too  late  today.  The  City  Building  is  surely  already  closed.  Maybe  next  week.  Early  on  Saturday  morning  we'll  go.  Yes,  I  think  next  week  will  do  fine.&quot;  