 b"THEN  there  it  was,  in  the  corner  of  his  eye.  He  turned.  The  in-  credibility  of  her  being  here,  now,  at  a  table  in  this  one  restaurant  on  the  oneday  when  he  was  back  in  New  York,  did  not  check  the  anticipa-  tory  freezing  of  his  heart,  for  when  they  had  both  lived  in  the  city  they  had  always  been  lucky  at  finding  each  other,  time  after  time;  and  this  would  be  one  more  time.  Already,  in  the  in-  stant  between  recognition  and  turning,  he  bad  framed  his  first  words;  he  would  rise,  with  the  diffidence  she  used  to  think  graceful,  and  go  to  her  and  say,  &quot;Hey.  It's  you.&quot;  Her  face  would  smile  apologetically,  lids  lowered,  and  undergo  one  of  its  lit-  tle  shrugs.  &quot;It's  me.&quot;  &quot;I'm  so  glad.  I'm  so  sorry  about  what  happened.&quot;  And  everything  would  be  understood,  and  the  need  of  forgive,  ness  once  again  magically  put  behind  them,  like  a  wall  of  paper  flames  they  had  walked  through.  It  was  someone  else,  a  not  very  young  woman  whose  hair,  not  really  the  color  of  her  hair  at  all,  had,  half  seen,  suggested  the  way  her  hair,  cen-  trally  parted  and  pulled  back  into  a  glossy  French  roll,  would  cut  with  two  dark  wings  into  her  fore-  head,  making  her  brow  seem  low  and  intense  and  emphasizing  her  stare.  He  felt  the  eyes  of  his  compan-  ions  at  lunch  question  him,  and  he  returned  his  atten-  tion  to  them,  his  own  eyes  smarting  from  the  effort  of  trying  topress  this  un-  known  woman's  appear-  ance  into  the  appearance  of  another.  One  of  his  com-  panions  at  the  table-a  gen-  tle  gray  banker  whose  affec-  tion  for  him,  like  a  generous  check,  quietly  withheld  at  the  bottom  a  tiny  deduc-  tion  of  tact,  a  modest  mi-  nus  paid  as  an  increment  on  their  mutual  security-  smiled  in  such  a  way  asto  balk  his  impulse  to  blurt,  to  confess.  His  other  com-  panion  was  an  elderly  fe-  male  underwriter,  an  ex-  associate,  whose  statistical  insight  was  remorseless  but  who  in  personal  man-  ner  was  all  feathers  and  feigned  dismay.  &quot;I'm  see-  ing  ghosts,&quot;  he  explained  to  her,  and  she  nodded,  for they  had,  all  three,  with  the  gay,  with-  ering  credulity  of  non-believers,  been  discussing  ghosts.  The  curtain  of  con-  versation  descended  again,  but  his  palms  tingled,  and,  as  if  trapped  between  two  mirrors,  he  seemed  to  face  a  diminish-  ing  multiplication  of  her  stare.  The  first  time  they  met,  in  an  apart  ment  with  huge  paintings  and  fragile  furniture,  she  came  to  the  defense  of  something  her  husband  had  said,  and  he  had  irritably  wondered  how  a  woman  of  such  evident  spirt  and  will  could  debase  herself  to  the  support  of  statements  so  asinine,  and  she  must  have  felt,  across  the  room,  his  irritation,  for  she  gave  him  her  stare.  It  was,  as  a  look,  both  blunt  and  elusive:  somewhat  cold,  certainly  hard,  yet  curiously  wide,  and  even  open-its  essential  ingredient  shied  away  from  being  named.  Her  eyes  were  the  only  glamorous  feature  of  afreckled,  bony,  tomboyish  face,  re-  markable  chiefly  for  its  sharp  willingness  to  express  pleasure.  When  she  laughed,  her  teeth  were  bared  like  a  skull's,  and  when  she  stared,  her  great,  grave,  per-  fectly  shaped  eyes  insisted  on  their  shape  as  rigidly  as  a  statue's.  Later,  when  their  acquaintance  had  outlived  the  initial  irritations,  he  had  met  her  in  the  Museum  of  Modern  Art,  amid  an  exhibit  of  old  movie  stills,  and,  going  forward  with  the  innocent  cheerfulness  that  her  presence  aroused  in  him,  he  had  been  unexpectedly  met  by  her  stare.  &quot;We  missed  you  Friday  night,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  did?  What  happened  Friday  night?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  nothing.  We  just  gave  a  little  party  and  expected  you  to  come.&quot;  &quot;We  weren't  invited.&quot;  &quot;But  you  were.  I  phoned  your  wife.&quot;  &quot;She  never  said  anything  to  me.  She  must  have  forgotten.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  don't  suppose  it  matters.&quot;  &quot;But  it  does.  I'm  so  sorry.  I  would  have  loved  to  have  come.  It's  very  fun-  ny  that  she  forgot  it;  she  really  just  lives  for  parties.&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  And  her  stare  puzzled  him,  since  it  was  no  longer  directed  at  him;  the  hostility  between  the  two  women  existed  before  he  had  fulfilled  its  reason.  Later  still,  at  a  party  they  all  did  at-  tend,  he  had,  alone  with  her  for  a  mo-  ment,  kissed  her,  and  the  response  of  her  mouth  had  been  disconcerting;  back-  ing  off,  expecting  to  find  in  her  face  the  moist,  form-  less  warmth  he  had  felt  on  his  lips,  he  encountered  her  stare  instead.  In  the  months  that  unfolded  from  this,  it  had  been  his  pleasure  to  see  her  stare  relax.  Her  body  gathered  softness  under  his;  late  one  night,  after  yet  another  party,  his  wife,  ly-  ing  beside  him  in  the  pre-  dawn  darkness  of  her  igno-  rance,  had  remarked,  with  the  cool,  fair  appraisal  of  a  rival  woman,  how  beautiful  she-ske,  the  other-had  become,  and  he  had  felt,  half  dreaming  in  the  warm  bed  he  had  betrayed,  justi-  fied.  Her  laugh  no  longer  flashed  out  so  hungrily,  and  her  eyes,  brimming  with  the  secret  he  and  she  had  made,  deepened  and  seemed  to  rejoin  the  girlishness  that  had  lingered  in  the  other  features  of  her  face.  Seeing  her  across  a  room  standing  swathed  in  the  beauty  he  had  given  her,  he  felt  a  creator's,  a  father's,  pride.  There  existed,  when  they  came  together,  a  presence  of  tenderness  like  a  ghostly  child  who  when  they  part-  " b"ed  was  taken  away  and  set  to  sleeping.  Yet  even  in  those  months,  in  the  depths  of  their  secret,  lying  together  as  if  in  an  intimate  dungeon,  discussing  with  a  gathering  urgency  what  they  would  do  when  their  secret  crumbled  and  they  were  exposed,  there  would  now  and  then  glint  out  at  him,  however  qualified  by  tears  and  languor,  the  un-  mistakable  accusatory  hardness.  It  was  accusing,  yet  that  was  not  its  essence;  his  conscience  shied  away  from  naming  the  pressure  that  had  formed  it  and  that,  it  imperceptibly  became  apparent,  he  was  helpless  to  relieve.  Each  time  they  parted,  she  would  leave  behind,  in  the  last  instant  before  the  door  closed,  a  look  that  haunted  him,  like  the  flat  persisting  ring  of  struck  crystal.  'The  last  time  he  saw  her,  all  the  gen-  tle  months  had  been  stripped  away  and  her  stare,  naked,  had  become  furious.  &quot;Don't  you  love  [REDACTED];  Two  households  were  in  turmoil  and  the  rich  instinct  that  had  driven  him  to  her  had  been  reduced  to  a  thin  need  to  hide  and  beg.  &quot;Not  enough.&quot;  He  meant  it  simply,  asa  fact,  as  something  that  already  had  been  made  plain.  But  she  took  it  as  a  death  blow,  and  in  a  face  whitened  and  drawn  by  the  shocks  of  recent  days,  from  beneath  dark  wings  of  tensely  parted  hair,  her  stare  revived  into  a  life  so  coldly  con-  trolled  and  adamantly  hostile  that  for  weeks  he  couldnot  close  his  eyes  with-  out  confronting  it-much  as  a  victim  of  torture  must  continue  to  see  the  burn-  ing  iron  with  which  he  was  blinded.  [REDACTED],  back  in  New  York,  walk-  ing  alone,  soothed  by  food  and  profitable  talk,  he  discovered  himself  so  healed  that  his  wound  ached  to  be  re-  opened.  The  glittering  city  bristled  with  potential  prongs.  The  pale  disc  of  every  face,  as  it  slipped  from  the  edge  of  his  vision,  seemed  to  cup  the  possi-  bility  of  being  hers.  He  felt  her  search-  ing  for  him.  Where  would  she  look?  It  would  be  her  style  simply  to  walk  the  streets,  smiling  and  striding  in  the  hope  of  their  meeting.  He  had  a  pre-  monition-and  yes,  there,  waiting  to  cross  Forty-third  Street  between  two  [REDACTED]  Rican  messenger  boys,  it  was  she,  withher  back  toward  him;  there  was  no  mistaking  the  expectant  tilt  of  her  head,  the  girlish  curve  of  her  high,  taut  cheek,  the  massed  roll  of  hair  pulled  so  glossy  he  used  to  imagine  that  the  hairpins  gave  her  pain.  He  drew  abreast,  timid  and  prankish,  to  surprise  her  profile,  and  she  became  a  wrinkled  painted  woman  with  a  sagging  lower  lip.  He  glanced  around  incredulously,  and  her  stare  glimmered  and  disappeared  in  the  wavering  wall-window  of  a  modernistic  bank.  Crossing  the  street,  he  looked  into  the  bank,  but  there  was  no  one,  no  one  he  knew-only  some  potted  tropical  plants  that  looked  vaguely  familiar.  He  returned  to  work.  His  company,  which  at  his  request  had  moved  him  away,  had  lent  him  for  this  visit  the  office  of  a  man  on  vacation.  He  man-  aged  to  concentrate  only  by  imagining  that  each  five  minutes  were  the  final  segment  of  time  he  would  have  to  him-  self  before  she  arrived.  When  the  phone  on  his  desk  rang,  he  expected  the  recep-  tionist  to  announce  that  a  distraught  woman  with  striking  eyes  was  asking  for  him.  When  he  went  into  the  halls,  a  secretary  flickering  out  of  sight  bat-  tered  his  heart  with  a  resemblance.  He  returned  to  his  borrowed  office,  and  was  startled  not  to  find  her  in  it,  wryly  ex-  amining  the  yellowed  children's  draw-  ings-another  man's  children-taped  to  the  walls.  The  bored  afternoon  pasted  shadows  on  these  walls.  Outside  his  window,  the  skyscrapers  began  to  glow.  He  went  down  the  elevator  and  into  the  cool  crowded  dusk  thankful  for  her  consideration;  it  was  like  her  to  let  him  finish  his  day's  work  before  she  declared  her  presence.  She  had  always  assumed,  in  their  scattered  hours  to-  gether,  a  wife's  dutiful  attitude  toward  him.  But  now,  now  she  could  cease  considerately  hiding,  and  he  could  take  her  to  dinner  with  an  easy  conscience.  He  checked  his  wallet  to  make  sure  he  had  enough  money.  He  decided  he  would  refuse  to  take  her  to  a  play,  though  undoubtedly  she  would  suggest  it.  She  loved  the  stage.  But  they  had  too  little  time  together  to  waste  it  in  aware-  ness  of  a  third  thing.  He  had  takena  room  at  what  he  still  thought  ofas  their  hotel.  To  his  surprise,  she  was  not  waiting  for  him  in  the  lobby,  which  seemed  filled  with  a  party,  a  competition  of  laughter.  Charles  Boyer  was  waiting  for  the  elevator.  She  would  have  liked  that,  sitting  on  the  bench  before  the  desk,  waiting  and  watching,  her  long  legs  crossed  and  one  black  shoe  jabbing  the  air  with  the  prongs  of  its  heel  and  toe.  He  had  even  prepared  his  explanation  to  the  clerk;  this  was  his  wife.  They  had  had  (voice  lowered,  eyebrows  lifted,  the  unavoid-  able  blush  not,  after  all,  inappropriate)  a  fight,  and  she  had  impulsively  fol-  lowed  him  to  New  York  to  make  up.  Irregular,  but  this  was  the  way  women  behaved.  So  could  his  single  reservation  kindly  be  changed  to  a  double?  Thank  you.  This  little  play  was  so  firmly  written  in  his  head  that  he  looked  into  the  bar  to  make  sure  the  leading  actress  was  not  somewhere  in  the  wings.  The  bar  was  bluely  lit  and  amply  patronized  by  fairies.  Their  drawled,  elaborately  " b"enunciating  voices,  discuss-  ing  musical  comedies  in  tones  of  peculiar  passion,  carried  to  him,  and  he  re-  membered  how  she,  when  he  had  expressed  distaste,  had  solemnly  explained  to  him  that  homosexuals  were  people,  too,  and  how  she  herself  often  felt  attracted  to  them,  and  how  it  al-  ways  saddened  her  that  she  had  nothing,  you  know-  her  stare  defensively  sharp-  ened-to  give  them.  &quot;That  old  bag,  she's  overexposed  herself,&quot;  one  ofthe  fairies  stridently  declared,  of  a  fa-  mous  actress.  He  took  the  elevator  up  to  his  room.  It  was  similar  to  ones  they  had  shared,  but  nothing  was  exactly  the  same,  except  the  plumbing  fixtures,  and  even  these  were  differently  arranged.  He  changed  his  shirt  and  necktie.  In  the  mirror,  be-  hind  him,  a  slow  curve  of  movement,  like  a  woman's  inquisitive  step,  chilled  his  spine;  it  was  the  door  drift-  ing  shut.  He  rushed  from  the  suffocating  vacant  room  into  the  streets,  to  inhale  the  invisible  possibility  of  finding  her.  He  ate  at  the  restaurant  he  would  have  chosen  for  them  both.  The  waiter  seemed  fussed,  seating  a  solitary  man.  The  woman  of  a  couple  at  a  near-  by  table  adjusted  an  earring  with  a  ges-  ture  that  belonged  to  her;  she  had  never  had  her  ears  pierced,  and  this  naivete  of  her  flesh  had  charmed  him.  He  ab-  stained  from  coffee.  Tonight  he  must  court  sleep  assiduously.  He  walked  to  tire  himself.  Broad-  way  was  garish  with  the  clash  of  mat-  ing-sailors  and  sweethearts,  touts  and  tarts.  Spring  infiltrates  a  city  through  the  blood  of  its  inhabitants.  The  side  streets  were  hushed  like  the  aisles  of  long  Pullman  sleepers  being  drawn  forward  by  their  diminishing  perspec-  tive.  She  would  look  for  him  on  Fifth  [REDACTED];  her  window-shopper's  in-  stinct  would  send  her  there.  He  saw  her  silhouette  at  a  distance,  near  Rocke-  feller  Center,  and  up  close  he  spotted  a  certain  momentary  plane  of  her  face  that  flew  away  in  a  flash,  leaving  be-  hind  the  rubble  ofa  face  he  did  not  know,  had  never  kissed  or  tranquilly  studied  as  it  lay  averted  on  a  pillow.  Once  or  twice,  heeven  glimpsed,  shadowed  in  a  doorway,  huddled  on     a  bench  tipping  down  toward  the  Promethean  fountain,  the  ghostly  child  of  their  tenderness,  asleep;  but  never  her,  her  in  the  fragrant  solidity  he  had  valued  with  such  a  strange  gay  light-  ness  when  it  was  upon  him.  Statistical-  ly,  it  began  to  seem  wonderful  that  out  of  so  many  faces  not  one  was  hers.  It  seemed  only  reasonable  that  he  could  skim,  like  interest,  her  presence  from  a  sufficient  quantityof  strangers-that  he  could  refine  her,  like  radium,  out  of  enough  pitchblende.  She  had  never  been  reserved  with  him;  this  terrible  tact  of  absence  was  unlike  her.  The  moon  gratuitously  added  its  stolen  glow  to  the  harsh  illumination  around  the  iceless  skating  rink.  As  if  sensing  his  search,  faces  turned  as  he  passed.  Each  successive  instant  shocked  him  by  being  empty  of  her;  he  knew  so  fully  how  this  meeting  would  go.  Her  eyes  would  light  on  him,  and  her  mouth  would  involuntarily  break  into  the  grin  that  greeted  all  her  occasions,  however  grave  and  dangerous;  her  stare  would  pull  her  body  forward,  and  the  gathering  nearness  of  his  presence would  dissolve  away  the  hardness,  the  controlled  coldness,  the-what?  What  was  that  element  that  had  been  there  from  the  beginning  and  that,  in  the  end,  despite  every  strenuous  motion  of  his  heart,  he  had  intensified,  like  some  wild  vague  prophecy  given  a  tyrannical  authority  in  its  fulfillment?  What  was  the  thing  he  had  never  named,  per-  haps  because  his  vanity  refused  to  be-  lieve  that  it  could  both  attach  to  him  and  exist  before  him?  He  wondered  if  he  were  tired  enough  now.  There  was  an  ache  in  his  legs  that  augured  well.  He  walked  back  to  the  hotel.  The  air  of  celebration  had  left  the  lobby.  No  celebrity  was  in  sight.  A  few  well-dressed  young  women,  of  the  style  that  bloom  and  wither  by  thousands  in  the  city's  public  places,  were  standing  waiting  for  an  escort  or  an  elevator;  as  he  pressed,  no  doubt  redundantly,  the  button,  a  face  cut  into  the  side  of  his  vision  at  such  an  angle  that  his  head  snapped  around  and  he  almost  said  aloud,  &quot;Don't  be  fright,  ened.  Of  course  I  love  you.&quot; "