 b"THE  road  from  Delphi  to  the  sea  is  one  ofthe  safest  roads  in  [REDACTED]-that  is  to  say,  it  is  pos-  sible,  even  on  its  worst  bends,  for  two  carsto  pass  without  one  of  them  necessarily  falling  into  the  ravine.  It  is  awell-surfaced,  well-travelled  road,  bounded  by  rocks,  shrubs,  and  pastures,  which  descends  first  to  a  brief  plain  of  olive  groves  and  finally  to  the  little  har-  bor  ofItea  where  a  ferry  departs  every  so  often  for  Patras  in  the  Peloponnesus.  By  car,  the  road  from  Delphi  to  Itea  takes  about  twenty  minutes;  by  bicycle  at  least  twice  as  long.  In  spring  the  olive  groves  are  drenched  with  their  pale,  prolific  flow-  ering,  and  the  port  of  Itea-which  consists  ofa  cluster  of  sun-colored,  flat-  roofed  cubes-is  as  busy  as  its  tempera-  ment  will  permit  it  to  become.  'The  handful  of  cars  lined  up  to  take  the  ferry  have  interesting  number  plates  and  their  foreign  owners  sit  under  the  thatch  awning  of  the  waterfront  caf\xc3\xa9  awaiting  their  turn  to  drive  aboard.  They  may  have  quite  a  while  to  wait-  for  the  boat,  in  accordance  with  the  Greek  nautical  tradition,  is  not  likely  to  leave  on  time.  How-  ever,  they  need  not  be  bored  and  do  not  seem  to  be-they  have  only  to  look  to  be  enter-  tained.  The  caf\xc3\xa9  looks  on  the  tiny  port  and  the  tiny  port  looks  on  the  sea;  and  the  sea,  on  all  sides,  reflects  capes  and  mountains,  rocky  or  grassed,  wild  or  culti-  vated,  all  with  thatleg-  endary  significance  that  in  [REDACTED]  seems  to  be  not  merely  in  the  eye  of  the  beholder  but  some  knowledge  possessed  by  the  landscape  itself.  Behind  Itea,  if  they  turn  their  backs  on  the  sea,  the  waiting  tourists  can  look  up  at  Parnassos  or  at  the  peaks  above  Amphissa,  or  retrace  with  their  eyes  that  road  that  winds  back  up  to  Delphi.  When  the  ferry  blows  its  whistle,  there  is  a  hasty  gathering  of  newspapers  and  cameras.  The  travellers  stub  out  their  cigarettes  and  call  for  the  bill,  which  by  now  most  of  them  are  pre-  pared  to  recognize  as  the  &quot;logariasmos.&quot;  They  need  nothurry,  though  they  do  not  know  it,  for  the  whistle  is  only  the  signalfor  putting  on  board  three  trucks  loaded  with  bales  of  wool.  It  also  brings  out  of  one  of  the  square  houses  the  captain  of  the  ferry,in  a  white  cap,      white  shirt,  and  shorts,  who  sits  down  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  on  one  of  the  chairs  va-  cated  by  his  passengers,  and  orders  what  seems  to  be  his  breakfast.  In  the  hot  sun  the  passengers  waitby  their  cars  while  planks  are  laid  from  the  wooden  pier  to  the  iron  flap  of  the  ferry.  The  trucks  are  guided  aboard-with  some  difficulty  but  little  excitement-and  the  handful  of  foreign  cars  now  follow.  The  first  car  is  a  red  Triumph  with  an  Irish  number  plate,  whose  owner  pulls  a  face  when  he  realizes  that  he  is  to  pay  for  the  privilege  of  being  first  on  board  not  only  by  being  last  off  but  also  by  being  wedged  between  two  of  the  wool  trucks,  one  of  which  is  shed-  ding,  in  a  light  breeze,  wisps  of  wool  from  a  torn  bale.  The  Irishman,  who-  like  most  Irishmen  who  own  red  Tri-  umphs-looks  like  an  Englishman,  is  young  and  good-looking  and,  since  he  eventually  manages  a  short  laugh  at  his  wool-gathering  predicament,  ap-  pears  to  be  good-natured.  The  beauty  of  his  wife  (who  had  laughed  earlier  and  longer)  is  reminiscent  of  the  twen-  ties:  her  dark-red  hair  curves  in  to  her  checks,  and  her  build  is  willowy.  She  wears  a  great  straw  hat,  a  pink  shirt,  and  cerise  trousers,  and  she  fairly  springs  up  the  ladderlike  stairs  leading  to  the  up~  per  deck.  In  the  next  car,  a  Volkswagen,  are  two  American  women-cer-  tainly  teachers,  possibly  college  professors.  The  stocky  one,  who  is  driv-  ing,  fits  the  car  efficiently  into  a  square  of  the  deck  and  even  exchanges  a  few  words  of  Greek-  awkward  Greek,  self-  conscious  Greek,  but  Jud  Shh  Greek-with  the  seaman  who  is  waving  the  cars  up  the  ramp.  Her  friend,  the  lanky  one,  lifts  an  im-  mense  woven  handbag  from  the  back  of  the  car  and  checks  the  necessities  for  the  crossing-sunglasses,  a  thermos,  postcards,  a  notebook,  a  phrasebook,  and  two  crushable  cotton  hats  that  have  followed  their  destiny.  These  ladies  wear  seersucker  dresses  that  have  dripped  and  are  dry,  and  canvas  sneak-  ers  over  white  socks.  Up  they  go,  en-  thusiastic,  purposeful,  to  the  passenger  deck,  where  they  find  for  themselves,  injudiciously,  a  place  in  the  sun.  The  next  car  has  a  Greek  number  plate.  It  is  a  hired  car  from  Athens  with  a  more  or  less  uniformed  driver " b"and  a  Greek  woman  guide  in  front,  and  a  couple,  who  seem  to  be  Danish,  in  the  back.  The  driver  parks  carefully  in  his  assigned  place,  then  leaps  out  to  help  his  passengers.  The  Danish  cou-  *]  ple  and  the  Greek  guidespeak  French  among  themselves.  The  Greek  lady  is  pleasant,  handsome,  middle-aged,  and  wears  that  slightly  sad  look  of  misplaced  cultivation  that  guides  inevitably  ac-  quire.  Her  hair,  iron  gray,  is  tied  up  in  a  loose  knot;  her  cotton  dress  is  dark  blue.  Her  clients  the  Danes  are  elegant,  sympathetic,  refined.  The  lady  wears  her  graying  blond  hair  in  teased,  fash-  ionable  curls.  Her  white  piqu\xc3\xa9  suit  has  been  ironed  that  morning,  and  her  nails  painted  the  night  before.  Nothing  could  be  fresher  or  more  welcome  on  the  deck  of  a  ferry  than  she.  She  car-  ries  in  her  arms  a  big  bouquet  of  the  thyme  whose  purple  flowers  can  be  seen  on  all  the  surrounding  hills.  She  is  charming  and  gay  and  greets  the  deck-  hands  in  French,  as  if  they  were  part  of  international  society.  (Her  husband  is  about  to  correct  her  when  one  of  them  returns  a  courteous  &quot;Bonjour.&quot;  )  The  husband  is  of  middle  height  and  mid-  dle  years;  his  yellow  hair  is  thin-  ning,  his  well-made  body  thickening.  His  face  is  unlined,  but  experienced,  amused.  He  wears  a  white  shirt  and  linen  trousers,  and  carries  his  jacket  on  his  arm.  He  has  the  personableness  of  intelligence,  and  the  little  party  is  no  sooner  on  deck  than  he  resumes  his  discussion  with  the  guide.  Now  comes  a  Greek  farmer  with  a  boy  of  about  ten,  wheeling  two  loaded  sacks  in  a  handcart.  Now  a  wiry  sun-  burned  woman  with  a  chicken  in  a  wicker  basket,  a  frail  elderly  couple  with  a  clumsy  bundle  wrapped  in  cloth,  and  four  young  people-three  girls  and  a  youth-in  dark  clothes,  possibly  on  their  way  to  a  family  funeral.  These  people  are  soon  deployed  throughout  the  ship-leaning  on  the  rail  near  the  cars  or  spreading  their  parcels  over  benches  on  the  upstairs  deck,  or  stroll-  ing  about  to  chat  with  the  crew.  The  whistle  is  blown  again,  and  the  green  water  around  the  ship  is  lightly  churned.  The  captain  leaves  his  table  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9  without  paying  (can  there  be  such  a  thing  as  an  account  at  the  Itea  caf\xc3\xa9,  or  is  it  possible  that  he  owns  it?  ),  and  |  strolls  toward  the  pier  holding  his  folded  '|  newspaper.  Like  some  martinet,  some  stickler  for  punctuality,  he  takes  out  a  watch  and  chain  as  he  walks  along,  glances  at  it,  and  snaps  it  shut.  (Is  this  to  confirm  more  precisely  the  extent  of  the  delay?)  As  he  pauses  to  put  it  away,  two  figures  appear  behind  him " b"where  the  Delphi  road  joins  the  water-  front.  Since  they  are  on  bicycles,  they  soon  draw  almost  level  with  the  captain,  but  politely  do  not  pass  and  allow  him  to  board  his  ship  alone.  These  new  figures  are  singular  enough  to  attract  a  little  attention,  al-  though  their  type  is  familiar  in  spring  and  summer  on  the  roads  of  Europe:  a  boy  and  a  girl-he  about  twenty,  she  perhaps  a  year  younger,  cach  with  a  plain  pedal  bicycle  to  which  is  strapped  a  heavy  pack.  They  are  both  short,  fair,  and  neatly  built.  A  tiny  Norwegian  flag  has  been  painted  on  the  boy's  bi-  cycle.  He  wears  a  bleached  khaki  shirt,  khaki  shorts  rolled  up  an  inch  or  two,  and  leather  sandals  with  rope  soles.  His  legs  and  arms  are  fuzzed  with  gin-  ger  and  deeply  sunburned  to  a  peeled  and  blotchy  red.  His  face  is  reddish  brown  except  at  the  hairline  and  dis-  figured  by  an  uncertain  ginger  beard.  They  wheel  their  bicycles  on  board.  The  girl  is  wearing  a  loose  yellow  jer-  sey,  above  which  the  back  of  her  neck  shows  crimson,  and  a  limp  cotton  skirt  of  red  and  blue  flowers.  On  her  limbs  ){  the  down  is  blond.  Her  arms  are  as  crimson  as  her  neck,  but,  since  her  legs  are  scarcely  pink,  there  must  be  a  pair  of  blue  jeans  somewhere  in  her  I  monstrous  pack.  Her  hair  has  been  cropped  almost  as  short  as  her  com-  panion's.  On  her  feet  are  roughly  made  sandals  of  a  very  old  design-an  open  casing  laced  together  over  the  instep  with  thongs  that  continue  halfway  up  the  calf  and  tie  there.  Among  the  cars  and  trucks  they  find  a  place  to  put  their  bicycles  where  they  can  be  seen  from  the  deck  above.  The  girl's  pack  is  the  same  size  as  the  boy's  and  must,  by  the  look  of  it,  weigh  about  thirty  pounds  (one  imagines  some  mis-  guided  pact  of  equal  responsibility  ),  and  rummaging  in  it  she  produces  a  paper  bag  spotted  with  grease  and  a  clear  plas-  tic  bottle  of  water.  A  frying  pan  has  been  strapped  to  the  side  of  her  pack-  the  sole  token  of  her  sex.  The  pack  is  closed  again  and  the  boy  leads  the  way  to  the  upper  deck,  where  they  seat  themselves  in  two  canvas  chairs  just  vacated  by  the  American  ladies,  who  have  gone  into  the  shade  of  the  wheel-  house.  The  iron  ramp  of  the  ferry  has  been  cranked  up,  the  whistle  blows  a  third  time,  and  the  ship  is  under  way.  A  small  group  has  somehow  collected  to  wavethem  off,  and  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9  the  waiter  stands  among  the  empty  tables  shading  his  eyes.  The  sun  shines,  the  breeze  strengthens,  the  wool  floats  more  {}{  thickly  down.  On  deck  the  foreigners  look  back  to  Delphi,  where  the  ruins" b"are  visible  only  for  a  moment  in  a  curve  of  the  hills.  &gt;  &quot;He  was  changed  into  a  dolphin,  you  know.  Right  here.  That's  where  they  get  the  name.  Delphi.&quot;  The  stocky  teacher  is  the  bossy  one.  &quot;Who?&quot;  &quot;Apollo.  For  heaven's  sake.&quot;  The  younger  one  is  writing  in  a  notebook.  &quot;I'll  put  it  in  at  the  end.  How  do  you  spell  Oedipus's  father?&quot;  The  Irish  couple  have  taken  a  bench  for  themselves,  and  even  have  a  small  cushion  covered  in  imitation  leopard.  They  sit  sideways  looking  out  to  sea,  their  knees  companionably  touching,  their  &quot;Guide  Bleu&quot;  warping  on  the  seat  between  them.  &quot;What  were  the  Mysteries  of  Eleu-  sis?&quot;  &quot;Nobody  seems  to  know.&quot;  He  is  more  serious  than  she.  &quot;Maybe  that's  the  point.&quot;  She  brings  a  pink  scarf  out  of  her  pocket  and  tics  her  hat  on  under  her  chin.  She  looks  back  at  the  mountains  and  sighs.  &quot;Wasn't  Delphi  divine?&quot;  He  smiles.  &quot;It's  nothing  if  not  that.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  the  Castalian  spring?  That  groove  to  the  right?&quot;&quot;  &quot;No-I  don'tthink  we  can  see  it  from  here.  Don't  you  remember,  we  had  to  drive  farther  up  the  road  to  get  to  it.&quot;  &quot;Oh  yes.&quot;  She  recites:  &quot;A  little  Learning  is  a  dangerous  thing;  Drink  deep,  or  taste  not  the  Cas-  talian  spring.&quot;  &quot;That's  the  Pierian  spring,&quot;  he  cor-  rects  her,  and  they  both  burst  out  laugh-  ing.  They  turn  their  attention  back  to  the  deck.  Like  all  travellers  in  [REDACTED],  they  have  run  into  some  of  their  fellow,  tourists  before  today-on  the  Acropolis,  was  it,  or  behind  Herodes  Atticus?" b"and  have  already  exchanged  nods  and  smiles  with  them  this  morning.  DELPHI  disappears.  The  chauffeur  ofthe  Danes'  car  arrives  on  deck  with  a  steward.  The  steward  sizes  up  the  situation,  then  goes  back  for  a  col-  lapsible  table  which  is  set  up  for  the  Danes'  lunch.  &quot;Parakelo,&quot;  says  the  stocky  teacher,  rising  to  her  feet,  and  soon  there  are  tables  for  the  teachers  and  the  Irish  couple  as  well,  and  a  boy  who  speaks  only  Greek  is  taking  impos-  sible  orders  for  lunch.  The  Danes  and  their  guide  are  in  deck  chairs.  They  have  brought  books,  and  their  books  are  in  earnest:  &quot;Dic  Griechischen  Altertiimer,&quot;  &quot;Le  Tr\xc3\xa9  sor  de  Sifnos,&quot;  &quot;Alexander's  Path;&quot;  their  &quot;Guide  Bleu&quot;  has  been  warped  for  years.  Before  lunch  the  party  has  a  glass  of  retsinaapiece,  and  the  guide  talks  to  them  continually,  pointing  from  time  to  time.  &quot;And  there  is  the  spot  where  Byron  landed.&quot;  She  says  it  in  English,  in  honor  of  the  occasion-not  loudly  but  in  the  slightly  oratorical  manner  of  guides,  so  that  the  Irish  couple  and  the  stocky  teacher  turn  to  look,  and  the  chauffeur  comes  over  to  the  rail.  There  is  a  sloping  headland,  a  bay,  another  tiny  port.  &quot;He  landed  there,&quot;  says  the  teacher  to  her  friend,  who  has  not  heard.  &quot;Apollo?&quot;  &quot;Byron,&quot;  she  says,  but  as  if  the  con-  fusion  were  understandable.  Only  the  Norwegians  have  shown  no  interest.  They  sit  together  with  their  hands  linked,  their  feet  on  the  lower  rung  ofthe  rail,  and  look  at  the  sea.  Once  theylook  at  each  other.  A  look  such  as  that,  though  it  passes  be-  tween  two  people  in  a  fractionof  a  second,  is  seen  by  everyone  and  is  un-  forgettable.  Without  speaking  she  releases  his  hand  and  brings  the  crumpled  paper  bag  up  from  beneath  her  deck  chair.  In  the  bag  there  is  a  newspaper  parcel  and  she  unwraps  this,  spreading  the  pa-  per  over  her  knees.  Pairing  what  she  finds  inside-two  small  loaves  stuffed  with  cheese,  two  boiled  eggs,  and  sev-  eral  tomatoes-she  is  calm,  engrossed,  more  mysterious  than  Eleusis,  more  romantic  than  Byron.  He  reaches  over  to  eat  from  her  lap-from  the  little  table  made  by  her  spread  knees  and  the  sheet  of  paper  covered  with  Greek  characters  and  centered  by  a  photo-  graph  of  King  Constantine.  HEY  have  been  sailing  for  some  time  in  a  more  open  sea.  Coming  upstairs  with  a  loaded  tray,  the  waiter" b" does  a  little  dance  on  the  deck  to  steady  himself.  'There  are  omelettes,  plates  of  goat  cheese  and  cucumbers,  and  un-  marked  bottles  of  retsina,  and  a  thick  tile  of  bread  is  laid  beside  each  plate.  There  are  even  paper  napkins,  which  presently  blow  overboard.  The  boy,  who  has  finished  his  last  tomato,  is  the  more  genteel  of  the  pair.  He  gathers  together  the  eggshells  and  bread  crumbs  and  puts  them  in  the  pa-  per  bag,  which  he  sternly  prevents  her  from  throwing  into  the  Gulf  of  Corinth.  The  waiter  takes  it  away  and  they  resume  their  positions,  lightly  holding  hands.  In  a  moment  the  girl  is  asleep,  her  shorn  head  tilted  back,  her  pale  gorge  prominent  in  her  sun-  burned  neck.  It  is  impossible  to  be  unmoved  by  their  presence,  by  their  absence.  They  have  everyone's  attention  to  some  de-  gree,  though  no  one  can  command  theirs.  'Theguide  nods  toward  them  with  her  melancholy  smile.  The  Irish-  man,  having  completed  his  meal,  lies  down  on  a  bench  with  his  head  in  his  wife's  lap.  The  Danish  lady  touches  her  husband's  hand.  The  ferry  splashes  its  ungainly  bow  against  wave  after  wave,  and  on  all  sides  of  them-for  all  the  while  they  have  been  in  sight  of  the  Peloponnesian  shore-can  be  seenthe  disarming  shapes  ofthe  Greek  coast,  sometimes  steep,  sometimes  low-lying,  not  always  readily  imposing,  for  this  is  an  Oriental  idea  of  a  coastline  rather  than  a  Western  one.  For  the  space  of  a  minute,  heavy  rain  falls  from  the  blue  sky-the  sea  is  freckled  with  it,  it  splashes  over  the  deck,  on  tables  and  empty  dishes,  but  no  one  stirs.  The  Nor-  wegian  girl  opens  her  eyes  but  doesn't  move,  and  in  a  moment  the  rain  is  behind  them.  &quot;Patras,&quot;  says  the  chauffeur,  and  once  more  the  passengers  are  brought  to  the  rail.  Patras,  the  substantial  town  fixed  in  an  arc  of  the  oncoming  land,  is  their  destination  and  they  cannot  dis-  regard  it.  They  have  chosen  to  come  to  this  shore  and  they  line  the  rail  like  a  little  group  of  immigrants,  wondering  what  life  it  will  offer  them  even  tem-  porarily.  &quot;Missolonghi,&quot;  the  man  says,  point-  ing  farther  and  in  another  direction.  There  is  a  tremendous  headland,  cliffs,  some  flat  land.  Only  the  Norwegians  still  watch  Patras.  Standing  beside  the  boy's  chair,  the  stocky  teacher  tells  him,  &quot;Missolonghi.  Where  Byron  died.&quot;  He  gives  a  careful  smile.  Turning  to  his  companion,  he  translates,  &quot;Byron" b"dode  der,&quot;  but  one  senses  that  he  does  so  merely  from  politeness.  She  is  bending  forward  in  her  chair  to  dry  her  face  with  her  skirt.  She  looks  up,  smiles  and  nods,  and  says,  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  gravely  as  if  to  a  child.  The  guide  sits  down  again  with  her  Danish  friends  and  spreads  out  a  map  of  the  Peloponnesus.  &quot;Olympia,&quot;  she  says-for  they  are  all  headed  for  Olympia:  itis  their  reason  for  landing  at  Patras-'&quot;is  on  the  border  of  the  district  of  Arcadia.&quot;  HE  ship  slows  down.  They  are  nearing  Patras.  The  town  looks  hot  and  slow.  Above  the  waterfront  there  are  hotels,  terraces,  a  garden,  a  gas  station.  The  harbor  is  empty  ex-  cept  for  a  few  caiques,  a  tanker,  and  a  tug  or  two.  An  exchange  of  whistles  brings  the  ferry  almost  to  a  stop.  It  glides  toward  the  pier,  covering  the  last  quarter  ofa  mile  so  slowly  that  the  passengers  go  back  to  their  seats  and  the  guide  resumes  her  lecture.  \xc2\xa9...  was  the  site  of  the  Games,  which  took  place  every  four  years  re-  gardless  of  the  political  relations  of  par-  ticipants.  In  those  days&quot;-she  shrugs-  &quot;they  suspended  the  wars  for  the  Games.  Now  they  suspend  the  Games  for  the  wars.&quot;  The  teachers  and  the  Irish  couple  eavesdrop-one  never  learns  so  much  as  from  another  person's  guide.  The  Norwegian  girl  stands  up  at  last  and  leans  on  the  rail,  but  the  other  travel-  lers  are  losing  interest  in  her:  she  is  all  very  well,  but  they  have  come  here  for  the  real  thing-art,  history,  truth-  and  cannot  afford  to  be  sidetracked.  The  boy  is  first  down  from  the  deck.  He  squeezes  among  the  cars,  the  girl  following,  and  reaches  the  bicycles  just  as  the  boat  touches  the  pier.  They  have  disposed  of  their  paper  bag  and  have  nothing  to  repack.  They  wheel  their  bicycles  forward  a  yard  or  two,  ex-  change  a  few  words.  The  girl  lifts  her  head  to  look  at  Patras  and  laughs.  There  is  something  drastic  about  the  arrival  of  a  ship  against  a  dock-even  if  itis  simply  the  ferry  from  Itea  against  the  pier  at  Patras-some  sen-  sation  of  adventure,  almost  of  rescue.  A  definable  episode  is  completed,  a  less  definable  one  begins.  Chains  are  rat-  tling,  ropes  creak  around  bollards,  and  thereare  the  ritual  shouts  of  &quot;Oi!  Oi!&quot;  that  presumably  give  guidance  to  those  concerned.  By  the  time  the  flap  ofthe  ferry  is  let  down,  all  the  passengers  are  on  the  lower  deck-those  on  foot  pre-  paring  to  walk  to  their  destination  in  the  town,  those  with  cars  repacking  their  belongings.  The  cars  aretoo  hot" b"to  enter,  and  their  owners  stand  beside  them  in  the  sun.  The  cyclists  are  first  off.  The  other  tourists  must  wait-for  one  of  the  wool  trucks  is  to  be  allowed  off  before  the  cars-and  they  watch  the  two  fig-  ures  weaving  up  the  short  rise  that  leads  from  the  pier  to  the  main  road.  At  last  it  seems  possible  to  talk  about  them.  The  Danish  lady  laughs,  brushing  the  tough  spines  of  the  thyme  from  her  white  jacket.  &quot;But  such  discomfort!  Such  discomfort!  At  my  age-un-  thinkable  ..  .&quot;  She  pauses,  but  her  hus-  band  doesn't  smile  or  reassure  her.  It  is  not  the  moment  for  jokes  about  age.  He  says,  &quot;We  will  overtake  them  in  no  time.&quot;  The  stocky  teacher  has  put  on  her  sunglasses.  &quot;They  took  so  little  inter-  test.  One  can't  imagine  why  they  come  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  Her  friend's  imagination  may  be  less  deficient,  for  she  looks  vague.  She  says,  &quot;I  expect  we'll  bump  into  them  in  Arcadia.&quot;  The  Irish  couple  slide  into  the  scorching  seats  of  their  car.  &quot;This  bloody  wool,&quot;  he  says.  Still  looking  at  the  road,  his  wife  asks  him,  &quot;But  what  will  they  cat?&quot;  &quot;'T  omatoes.&quot;  &quot;Where  will  they  sleep?&quot;  &quot;'T  ogether.&quot;  &quot;One  could  give  them  a  lift  per-  haps?&quot;  &quot;&quot;With  those  bicycles?&quot;  he  begins  in  halfhearted  horror,  but  then  says,  &quot;No.  No.  Let  them  alone.&quot;  A  signal  is  made  for  the  cars  to  move  on,  and  he  starts  the  engine.  &quot;They're  having  the  time  of  their  lives.&quot; "