 b"IT  was  very  ordinary,  really.  A  small,  elderly  artist,  leading  a  pet  dog,  was  knocked  down  by  a  car  one  damp,  misty  evening  on  Chelsea  Embankment,  when  the  reflections  of  the  street  lamps  quivered  confusingly  in  the  glassy  surfaces  of  the  roads  after  heavy  rain,  whichhad  fallen  earlierin  the  afternoon.  Two  days  later,  without  regaining  consciousness,  Cyril  Turville  died  in  hospital.  The  papers  are  full  of  such  things.  They  happen  all  the  time.  The  young  man  who  had  driven  the  car  was  exonerated  when  he  described-  and  a  handy  witness  confirmed-how  the  tiny  gray  shape  of  Mr.  Turville,  attached  to  a  gray  canine  shadow,  had  walked  of  the  curb  right  under  his  wheels.  Everybody  knew  how  absent-  minded  Cyril  had  become.  The  kindly  young  man  was  upset,  however.  He  stooped  over  Mrs.  Turville  after  the  inquest,  his  fresh  forehead  frowning,  and  looked  into  her  face  as  though  de-  bating  within  himself  what  he  could  say  to  express  his  regret  that  he  and  the  double  wraith  of  man  and  dog  should  have  been  magnetized  toward  each  other  that  spring  evening.  He  said  a  few  cautious  words  and  went  out  of  Dolly  Turville's  life,  having  been  the  means  of  cutting  it  in  two.  This  unexceptional  event  spread  a  shock  of  dis-  may  among  the  Turvilles  friends,  who  had  not  thought  of  them  in  sepa-  rate  pieces.  They  had  been  one  so  long  and  so  remark-  ably  that  the  sudden  termi-  nation  of  their  marriage  by  a  moving  mass  of  vulgar  metal  gave  everyone  a  sense  of  outrage  as  well  as  loss.  By  rights,  theyshould  have  met  the  fate  of  devoted  couples  in  ancient  mythol-  ogy  who,  after  a  quiet,  united  dissolution,  con-  tinued  in  some  sort  of  twin-  ing  vegetable  partnership  as  adjacent  trees  or  vines.  In-  stead,  there  was  that  sick-  ening,  solitary  crunch  on  the  Embankment-horri-  ble!  It  was  only  a  chance  that  Dolly  had  not  been  sharing  their  usual  stroll;  she  was  nursing  a  cold  at  home.  Perhaps  it  would  al-  most  have  been  better,  the  friends  considered,  if  this  had  not  been  so.  As  tele-  phones  rang  from  house  to  house,  everybody  experienced  the  sense  of  sad  blankness  that  follows  the  ending  of  something  good.  The  delightful  little  Turvilles,  who  were  like  nobody  else  in  the  world,  had  come  to  an  end.  Their  endearing  effect  on  all  who  metthem  had  always  begun,  of  course,  with  their  appearance,  which  was  quaint.  They  were  both  exceptionally  small  people,  delicately  made  and  al-  together  in  perfect  proportion,  like  a  couple  of  those  minuscule,  prized  pieces  of  furniture  that  precisely  repeat  the  scale  of  the  full-sized  Chippendale  bureau  or  chair.  The  Turvilles  gave  the  impression  of  having  been  matched  up  with  infinite  care.  There  was  nothing  in  their  looksof  either  the  midget  or  the  child,  though  people  who  met  them  for  the  first  time  sometimes  wondered  if  Cyril's  narrow,  burnished  boots  came  from  the  juvenile  department  of  some  store.  He  was  actually  rather  a  dandy,  with  beautifully  cut  clothes  and  a  rib-  boned  monocle,  behind  which  he  would  banish  his  shortsighted  left  eye.  His  eyes  had  an  expression  of  peculiar  sweetness,  a  gentle  goodness,  which  made  people  take  to  him  on  sight  and  tell  him  things  that  they  would  not  have  told  anyone  else.  He  was  asked  frequently  for  help,     and  alwaysgave  it.  Everybody  loved  Cyril.  They  were  very  fond  of  poor  little  Dolly,  too,  but  he  was  the  strong  one.  Dolly  was  a  helpless,  pretty  creature,  still  having  retained  in  middle  age  the  exquisite,  seemingly  boneless  paws  of  hands  and  the  flaming  hair  (now  im-  probably  tinted,  it  was  true)  that  had  appeared  in  a  whole  numbered  &quot;Dolly&quot;  series  of  Turville  portraits.  They  had  no  children;  instead  they  had  cherished  a  sequence  of  a  breed  of  silky-haired  dogs,  the  last  of  which  had  accom-  panied  Cyril  on  the  final  airing  along  the  Embankment.  The  Turvilles  house,  in  a  Chelsea  cul-de-sac,  was  part  of  the  charming  joke,  being  dimin-  utive  and  frail,  like  them,  and  furnished  with  admirable  eighteenth-century  bits  that  Dolly,  who  had  a  feeling  for  such  things,  had  picked  up  cleverly  for  nothing  much  through  the  years.  All  the  pieces  were  scaled  to  the  small  rooms  and  their  owners.  Visitors  would  experience  a  sense  of  entering  Lilliput  as  they  sat  down  and  gazed  out  at  the  postage-stamp  square  of  back  yard  where  on  summer  evenings  Dolly  was  to  be  found,  engulfed  in  an  old  apron,  scratching  away  among  the  plants  with  a  pickle  fork.  The  Turvilles  were  al-  ways  to  be  found  by  their  friends,  and  always  welcoming.  Cyril's  studio  was  just  round  the  corner.  He  specialized  in  painting  beautiful  women  with  their  children  and  pets;  all,  when  he  had  finished  with  them,  seemed  to  be  composed  of  prettily  tinted,  impervious  plaster  of  [REDACTED].  Yet  he  was  much  in  de-  mand.  'The  supply  of  hus-  bands  who  admired  these  compositions  appeared  to  be  endless.  The  problem  of  Dolly's  future  loomed  large  in  many  people's  minds  after  they  heard  the  news.  First  of  all,  there  were  the  aw-  ful  formalities  to  be  got  through.  The  sight  of  Cyr-  il's  coffinat  the  cremation  was  nearly  too  much  for  Eileen  Scoby,  as  for  many  others.  Its  size-patheti-  cally  neat,  almost  bijou,  one  might  say-brought  him  back  so  vividly.  He  had  been  a  little  angel  of  sweetness,  Miss  Scoby  re-  flected-really  a  saint!  In  all  the  years,  she  had  never  known  him  ruffled  or  out  of  temper.  When  it  slid     " b"unobtrusively  out  of  sight,  as  the  modest  little  man  himself  would  have  done,  she  glanced  surreptitiously  at  Dolly.  The  Turvilles  had  been  oddly  bare  of  re-  lations-it  increased  the  feeling  that  they  had  sprung  into  being  solely  to  exist  for  one  another-and  the  widow  knelt  between  Eileen  and  her  brother,  Mervyn  Scoby,  their  oldest  friends.  The  Scobys'  shoulders  hemmed  her  in  like  a  tm),  qmet  prlsoner  between  two  warders.  &quot;She  is  being  wonderful,  really,&quot;  Eileen  said  to  Scoby  on  the  way  home.  They  had  just  seen  two  other  friends  put  Mrs.  Turville  into  their  car,  talk-  ing  cheerfully,  and  drive  off  with  her  on  the  front  seat  beside  the  husband  while  the  wife,  afflicted  by  the  well-  meaning  dementia  that  often  seizes  people  on  such  occasions,  kept  up  a  flow  of  brisk  babble  from  the  rear.  They  were  taking  her  home  to  Kent  for  a  few  days,  or  as  long  as  she  wished  to  stay.  &quot;That's  not  unusual  at  first,&quot;  brother  answered.  Scoby  was  a  solicitor,  a  dry-looking  man  with  a  scatter  of  liver-colored  freckles  peppering  the  bald  spot  on  his  crown.  &quot;I  know.  When  there  won't  be  things  to  settle  and  she  can  sit  down  and  think\xe2\x80\x94that\xe2\x80\x99s  the  worst  time,  ev-  erybody  says.&quot;  &quot;She'll  have  to  start  thinking  at  once,  I'm  afraid,&quot;  he  said  as  they  went  up  the  steps  of  the  house  in  a  Chelsea  square  they  had  long  and  amicably  shared.  &quot;'Things  won't  be  all  that  easy.&quot;  Once  inside,  he  went  straight  to  the  cupboard  where  he  kept  the  drinks,  and  mixed  two  large  whiskeys,  though  they  usually  took  little  before  lunch.  They  needed  something  this  morning.  Scoby,  the  glass  in  his  hand,  stood  staring  out  at  the  gardens  of  the  square,  where  a  blackbird  was  singing  lustily  in  the  sun-  shine.  Eileen  had  departed  with  her  drink  to  put  their  cold  lunch  on  the  table.  He  took  a  swallow  of  the  whis-  key  and  thought  of  poor  Dolly  being  whirled  out  of  [REDACTED]  on  a  wave  of  determined  good  cheer.  He  had  been  deeply  in  love  with  her  many  years  be-  fore,  and  his  friends  had  taken  it  for  granted  that  it  was  because  of  this  unre-  warding  delirium  that  he  had  not  mar-  ried.  In  reality,  as  he  knew  perfectly  well,  it  was  nothing  of  the  kind.  After  he  had  got  over  Dolly,  the  only  fever  of  which  his  somewhat  cold  blood  had  been  capable  was  over,  too,  and  he  rose  clear-eyed,  as  it  were,  to  acknowledge  that  he  was  feeling  a  good  deal  more  comfortable  as  he  was.  Eileen  had  not  married,  either.  She  looked  after  him  her    excellently.  'They  lived  together  with  tact,  sharing  some  but  not  all  of  their  friends  and  going  their  own  ways  for  holidays.  The  Turvilles  were  close  at  hand.  Miss  Scoby,  a  passionate  botanist,  went  off  every  year  to  the  flowery  val-  leys  of  [REDACTED]  while  her  brother  motored  with  Cyril  and  Dolly  in  [REDACTED]  and  4974616c79.  The  arrangement  had  been  very  happy.  It  was  strange  to  reflect  that  at  one  time  the  news  that  Dolly  had  become  a  widow  would  have  made  his  heart  jump;  instead,  it  had  remained  quiet  and  heavy  as  a  stone.  Possibly-  a  painful  thought-he  had  ended  by  being  even  more  devoted  to  Cyril  than  he  was  to  Dolly.  Cyril  had  been  such  a  bad  painter  and  such  a  wonderfully  good  little  human  being.  All  of  his  friends  had  relied,  almost  unconsciously,  on  that  exceptional  nature-a  nature  for  all  seasons,  hanging  up  at  the  back  of  their  lives  like  a  coat  that  would  cherish  them  miraculously  in  any  weather.  None  of  them  would  know  how  to  get  on  without  it,  Scoby  least  of  all.  As  for  Dolly,  so  often  feather-  brained  and  a  trial,  perhaps,  even  to  Cyril's  marvellous  patience,  she  was  a  problem  to  which  Scoby  had  turned  his  mind  anxiously  in  the  last  few  days.  He  sighed,  and  heard  Eileen  calling  &quot;Lunch!&quot;  from  the  dining  room.  He  joined  her  with  alacrity.  F  he  melan-  choly  morning  had  made  him  feel  ex-  tremely  hungry,  in  some  strange  way,  " b"the  cold  veal  and  salad  and  Camembert  seemed  to  be  signalling  to  him,  Scoby,  thereassuring  message  that  he  was  alive.  N  a  few  days,  Dolly  was  back  from  Kent,  returning  with  relief,  almost  at  arun,  to  her  bits  and  pieces  and  the  familiar  half  of  her  unshared  bed.  When  the  Scobys  went  around  to  see  her,  they  agreed  later  that  her  tiny  face  and  figure  appeared  to  have  contracted.  She  sat  with  her  bird  bones  tucked  up  in  her  usual  chair,  while  they  all  avoided  look-  ing  at  the  patch  of  hearthrug  on  which  Cyril  hadhad  the  habit  of  standing,  rocking  back  and  forth  on  the  heels  and  toes  of  his  ridiculous  boots  as  he  bent  his  serious,  warm  gaze  down,  for  a  change,  upon  some  seated  guest.  His  absence  was  clamorous.  Getting  up  to  playhost  and  refill  Eileen's  sherry  glass-the  Tur-  villes  never  had  spirits  in  the  house-  Scoby  walked  right  through  the  fa-  miliar  spot  and  felt  a  blankness  and  soreness  in  the  heart.  The  miniature  house,  with  its  country  air,  which  had  been  so  pretty  and  funny  as  a  nest  woven  to  the  exact  shape  of  the  perfect  little  Turvilles,  would  now  obviously  be  intolerable,  he  thought.  Cyril  had  bought  it  on  Scoby's  advice  a  few  years  before  the  war,  when  prices  were  still  reasonable.  His  affairs,  as  his  friend  and  solicitor  knew,  had  not  been  left  in  such  a  prosperous  state  that  Dolly  would  not  be  glad  ofthe  excellent  price  it  would  fetch  today.  Cyril's  generosity  to  others  had  been  too  great.  Scoby's  mind's  eye,  moving  more  briskly  than  his  body,  which  was  carefully  dodging  the  haunt-  ed  rug  on  the  return  trip  to  Eileen,  saw  the  board  up  on  the  railings  and  the  nest  abandoned.  He  had  already  depos-  ited  Dolly  satisfactorily  in  a  convenient  flat,  close,  yet  not  too  close,  to  him  and  Eileen,  by  the  time  he  sat  down  again  with  the  women.  But  every  death,  as  Scoby  knew  from  long  experience,  leaves  the  survivors  in  the  boat  exchanging  bleak  glances  over  the  empty  place;  their  behavior  in  the  altered  situation  is  often  unpre-  dictable.  It  was  really  no  surprise  when  helpless  tiny  Dolly,  who  had  left  all  the  decisions  to  Cyril,  now  knew  with  ab-  solute  certainty  what  she  wanted.  It  was  to  continue  where  she  was.  Perhaps  because  their  house  was  the  only  place  in  the  world  where  Cyril's  dapper  form  could  still  be  said  to  reside,  or  anyhow  to  have  left  an  imprint  like  the  warmth  lingering  in  a  recently  vacated  chair,  she  refused  to  budge.  Scobyunder-  stood-he  had  known  a  pang  himself  at  the  thought  that  the  little  place  to  which  he  and  all  the  Turvilles'  friends  had  kept  coming  through  the  years would  be  closed  to  them-yet  he  re-  garded  her  with  the  righteous  exaspera-  tion  of  the  levelheaded  man  who  sees  clearly  what  should  be  done  and  has  expected  no  opposition.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said  rather  abruptly,  &quot;I  suppose  we'll  have  to  make  another  plan.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Scoby,  you  are  such  a  com-  fort,&quot;  she  said,  looking  at  him  in  her  wheedling,  loving  way.  Something  had  remained  between  them  through  the  placid  years-a  fond-  ness  and  exact  appreciation  of  each  other's  good  and  bad  points  which  was  almost  like  the  tolerance  of  a  long-  standing  marriage.  He  knew,  for  in-  stance,  that  the  understanding  of  money  Qf  $7ij  ,.  4,  0  yi  arh  Soh  sly  -OcpEN  Nase  had  been  totally  omitted  from  her  in-  tellectual  capacity.  He  deplored  it  as  one  with  the  sight  of  a  hawk  might  shake  his  head  over  a  friend  who  has  never  seen  the  light  of  clear,  cold,  masculine  day.  But  it  was  Dolly.  Therefore,  sighing,  he  began  thinking  what  could  be  done.  It  turned  out  that  the  rest  of  the  Turvilles'  friends  were  equally  con-  vinced,  for  their  part,  that  they  knew  what  she  ought  to  do  to  begin  life  with-  out  Cyril.  They  were  full  of  sensible  suggestions,  none  of  which,  Scoby  felt,  stood  a  chance  of  being  taken,  however  charmingly  received.  In  the  end,  cer-  tain  friends  put  their  heads  and  their  pockets  together  and  managed  toar-  range  things  tactfully,  with  Scoby's  help,  so  that  Cyril's  widow  would  not  have  to  move  out  of  their  home.  The  thought  upset  everybody  too  much.  They  all  wanted  to  be  able  to  feel  that  something,  at  least,  would  go  on.  A  treasured  feature  of  their  private  landscapes  was  not  to  be  flattened  and  " b"made  unrecognizable,  it  was  felt,  by  a  strange  young  man  driving  home  along  the  Embankment  on  a  moist  spring  evening.  The  moving  spirit  might  have  gone,  but  they  could  pre-  serve  the  shell.  After  all,  as  they  told  each  other  cheer-  fully,  Dolly  had  few  wants  and  should  be  able  to  man-  age  all  right.  They  would  all  make  a  point  of  dropping  in  from  time  to  time  to  see  that  she  was  managing.  For  some  months,  they  did  so  with  enthusiasm.  Then,  little  by  little,  as  cyn-  ical  Scoby  could  have  pre-  dicted  would  happen,  they  began  to  see  less  of  Dolly  and  to  have  her  less  on  their  minds,  too,  now  that  they  had  got  her  safely  settled  in  her  own  chair  in  the  famil-  iar  room.  Perhaps,  as  even  Scoby  had  suspected  of  him-  self,  Cyril  was  the  one  they  had  truly  adored,  to  whom  they  had  gone  back  again  and  again,  because  he  gave  them  the  sense,  like  a  mar-  vellously  becoming  mirror,  of  being  quite  as  delightful  and  as  amiable  as  he  was  while  they  were  with  him.  Though  such  an  indifferent  painter,  he  had  been  a  Michelangelo  of  friend-  ship.  And  without  him  Dolly  seemed  to  have  been  left  swinging  without  point,  like  the  little  wooden  woman  figure  outside  a  nursery  weather  house  from  which  a  clumsy  hand  has  snapped  off  the  partner  whose  presence  made  the  thing  work.  The  Scobys,  of  course,  were  loyal,  though  they,  too,  were  sadly  conscious  that  their  cheerful  visits  were  frauds.  Nothing  would,  nothing  could  be  the  same  again.  Eileen  Scoby,  a  woman  who  could  see  nobody  in  trouble,  from  a  catto  a  whole  nation,  without  wish-  ing  to  supply  nourishment  in  large  quantities-perhaps  this  was  why  she  was  always  most  at  peace  in  Switzer-  land,  where  everything  was  so  visibly  well  nurtured  that  the  very  cows,  gazing  at  the  stocky  Englishwoman  with  their  limpid  eyes,  looked  replete  to  the  last,  sweet  blade  of  grass-Eileen  worried  conscientiously  about  Dolly  from  time  to  time.  It  seemed  to  her  doubtful  whether  the  little  creature  re-  membered  to  stock  the  larder  or  even  to  eat.  It  had  been  Cyril  who  enjoyed  cooking  and  eating  good  food.  Dolly  was  now  really  alarmingly  frail.  If  Eileen  had  dared,  she  would  have  liked  to  take  her  a  couple  of  chops  now  and  then.  She  saw  more  of  Dolly  than  Scoby  did,  and  she  noticed  that  Mrs.  Turville  was  becoming  careless  about  herself  in  a  number  of  small  ways.  A  rim  of  ashy  yellow  began  to  lap  the  roots  of  her  splendid  fiery  hair  and  was  not  re-  pulsed.  When  Scoby's  lizard  eye  one  day  noted  this,  too,  filing  away  the  brief,  wounding  fact  that  she  had  aged  a  great  deal,  his  heart  went  through  the  symbolic  gymnastic  of  smiting  him.  Dolly  and  the  house  appeared  to  be  ac-  quiring  an  identical  air  of  being  just  slightly  unkempt,  which  upset  him,  now  that  he  had  observed  it.  He  rang  her  up  next  day  and  askedher  to  go  to  a  con-  cert  and  to  supper  afterward.  The  eve-  ning  was  sucha  success,  and  Dolly,  by  candlelight  in  the  old  favorite  restau-  rant,  looked  so  marvellously  revived  and  beautiful  that,  reassured,  he  did  not  see  her  again  for  a  month.  SOME  time  after,  when  Cyril  had  been  dead  for  almost  a  year,  Eileen  passed  on  to  Scoby  her  suspicion  that  Dolly's  days  were  punctuated  by  in-  creasingly  frequent  trips  to  the  sherry  decanter  orthe  wine  bottle.  On  the  telephone,  she  often  sounded  gently  fuddled;  sometimes  she  misunderstood  completely  what  was  being  said  toher.  &quot;Well,  if  it  gives  her  any  com-  fort  ..  .&quot;  Scoby  said.  And  if  she  can  afford  it,  was  the  immediate  footnote,  added  in  alarm  to  his  inward  book-  keeping  system.  How  many  bottles  a  week?  He  hoped  not  many.  &quot;All  the  same,  I  hate  the  thought.  Supposing  she  has  an  accident  over  there  all  by  herself.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  very  likely.  She  doesn't  smoke,  and  there  is  no  gas  in  the  house,  luckily.&quot;  &quot;It  seems  such  a  time  since  she  went  out  and  saw  anybody  except  us.&quot;  He  knew  that  was  true.  Some  of  the  old  friends  had  practically  given  up  invitingher,  except  as  a  matter  of  con-  science,  or  inspired  by  a  gush  of  affec-  tionate  memories  of  Cyril.  The  inex-  orable  tribal  laws  of  [REDACTED]  were  partly  responsible  for  that.  A  single  widow  woman  is  difficult-so  they  run-to  fit  into  an  evening,  and  any-  how  Dolly  had  acquired  a  habit  of  say-  ing  that  she  was  sorry,  she  was  doing  something  else.  In  an  amazingly  short  time,  she  had  dropped  out  of  sight  of  everybody  except  the  Scobys  and  the  " b" faithful  devoted  few  who  telephoned  from  time  to  time  of  an  evening  and  heard  the  telephone  ringing  into  silence.  &quot;I  know  she  goes  to  bed  very  early&quot;  was  the  formula  Eileen  repeated  to  their  complaints,  while  her  imagination  saw  the  unpleasing  vision  of  graceful  little  Dolly  stretched  out  fast  asleep,  dead  to  the  world  and  still  fully  clothed,  in  a  house  that  wanted  dusting  and  had  nothing  in  the  larder.  Then  she  would  go  around  and  insist  on  taking  her  friend  out  to  lunch,  urging  her  toeat  more  and  put  on  some  of  the  lost  pounds.  Soon  after  the  anniversary  of  Cyril's  death  had  passed,  Scoby  departed  for  [REDACTED],  where  he  had  some  business  to  do  for  a  client  who  lived  in  [REDACTED].  He  enjoyed  the  trip.  It  was  the  first  time  he  had  been  abroad  since  the  old,  happy  pottering  expeditions  with  Cyril  and  Dolly.  Last  summer,  he  had  not  felt  like  going  off  by  himself,  and  had  taken  a  fishing  holiday  witha  friend.  The  rain  had  fallen  relentlessly.  Now,  after  two  weeks,  he  flew  home,  the  freckles  darkerthan  ever  upon  the  sunburned  skin  on  his  crown,  feel-  ing  better  thanhe  had  for  years.  Hum-  ming  cheerfully,  he  opened  his  front  door  as  the  taxi  drove  of  down  the  square  under  the  fresh,  budding  trees.  &quot;Did  you  get  my  letter?&quot;  Eileen  asked  before  he  had  hung  up  his  coat.  &quot;Letter?&quot;  He  gazed  at  her,  sur-  prised.  They  were  not  in  the  habit  of  writing  when  parted,  except  business-  like  postcards  giving  times  of  trains  or  planes.  &quot;Then  it  must  have  just  missed  you.  I  knew  I  should  have  cabled.&quot;  &quot;Why?  What  has  happened?&quot;  His  sister's  expression,  he  observed,  was  strange.  He  glanced  round  him.  Their  home  appeared  much  as  usual.  It  struck  him,  witha  slight  premonition  of  annoy-  ance,  that  she  had  crashed  their  new  car.  &quot;It's  Dolly.  Something  so  extraor-  dinary  that-&quot;  &quot;Justa  minute.&quot;  Scoby  went  into  the  hall,  hung  his  coat  in  the  cupboard,  and  returned,  smiling.  The  buckled  car  had  sprung  back  into  pristine  shape  in  his  head,  but  the  tremor  had  arrived  in  the  form  of  a  nettled  sensation  that  he  was  decidedly  not  going  to  show  Eileen.  &quot;I  think  I  can  probably  guess.  Dolly's  going  to  get  married  again.&quot;  &quot;How  did  you  know?&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  wasn't  very  difficult,  was  it?  She's  dreadfully  lonely.  I  must  say  she  hasn't  lost  much  time.  Who  is  it?&quot;  he  asked,  running  mentally  through  the  short  list  of  their  unattached  friends.  &quot;She  isn't  going  to  get  mar-  ried.  She  was  married  last  Tuesday.  I  was  there-she  did  at  least  ask  me  to  come.  'The  only  other  person  there  was  some  man.  I  forget  his  name-a  friendof  Harry's.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  see  why  you  think  you  ought  to  have  cabled  me,  all  the  same,&quot;  Scoby  said.  The  feeling  of  annoyance  was  not  decreasing.  &quot;Did  you  expect  me  to  drop  everything  and  fly  back  for  it?&quot;  &quot;It's  nobody  we  know.  Harry,  I  mean.  His  name  is  Harry  Potter.  Dolly  met  him  in  that  pub  in  the  next  street.  I  was  so  upset,  really,  that  I  didn't  quite  know  what  to  do,  except  I  thought  you  ought  to  know.&quot;  Scoby  looked  at  her  blankly.  &quot;I  didn't  know  Dolly  went  to  pubs.&quot;  &quot;She  dropped  in  one  eve-  ning,  and  after  that  she  went  most  evenings,  she  said.&quot;  Scoby  was  really  astonished.  He  had  nothing  against  pubs.  They  were  admirable  places;  only  the  picture  he  suddenly  had  of  diminutive  Dolly,  a  woman  of  her  age  and  tastes,  sit-  ting  in  a  corner  sipping  her  sherry  in  the  haze  of  smoke  and  the  squash  of  drinking  bodies,  was  a  ludicrous  one.  Why  couldn't  she  do  her  little  tippling  in  the  home  that  her  friends'  fond-  ness  had  made  secure  for  her?  He  tried  to  think  of  her  as  a  &quot;regular,&quot;  exchanging  jokes  with  the  customers.  And  at  the  same  time  he  knew  the  answer.  He  had  just  supplied  it  him-  self.  She  had  been  wretchedly  lonely.  All  the  annoyance  was  with  himself  and  Eileen,  that  they  had  not  been  able  to  do  better  by  her,  and,  obliquely,  by  Cyril,  than  that.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  go  and  see  her  more?&quot;  he  burst  out,  most  unfairly.  &quot;I  saw  her  all  I  could.  One  can't  always  be  there.&quot;  &quot;I  know,  I  know.&quot;  Scoby  smiled  appeasingly  at  his  sister,  whose  face  had  flushed  up  quickly,  as  though  his  words  had  hit  her  painfully  across  it.  &quot;I  think  she  might  have  waited  until  I  got  back,&quot;he  said  merely.  &quot;Well,  of  course,  but  if  you  ask  me,  I'm  sure  she  felt  it  was  a  good  plan  to  rush  everything  through  while  you  were  away.&quot;  &quot;Why,  for  God's  sake?  One  could  " b"hardly  stop  her  doing  anything  she  wanted  to  do.  But  it  would  have  been  friendlier,  consideringeverything.  I  only  hope  it's  all  right.&quot;  Belatedly,  his  imagination  groped  toward  his  irre-  placeable  friend's  successor.  &quot;Who  is  Potter?&quot;  &quot;He  has  one  ofthose  little  antique  shops  off  the  King's  Road.  He  used  to  live  over  it,  but  now  he  has  moved  in  with  Dolly.  She  says  they're  going  to  run  the  shop  together.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Well,  that  might  be  a  good  idea,&quot;  Scoby  said.  &quot;Dolly  was  always  good  at  that  sort  of  thing.&quot;  &quot;He's  younger  than  she  by  quite  a  bit,  I  should  say.  Dolly  says  they're  the  same  age,  but  I  doubt  it.  He's  been  married  before,  but  his  wife  went  off  with  someone.  If  Dolly  hadn't  told  me  that,  I  wouldn't  really  have  thought  he  was  the  marrying  type.&quot;  Scoby  gave  a  short  exasperated  laugh.  He  was  suddenly  conscious  of  having  made  a  long  journey  and  of  wanting  a  bath.  How  like  Dolly,  he  thought,  to  arrange  things  so  that  her  affairs  would  descend  upon  him,  like  a  practical-joke  device  suspended  over  his  front  door,  the  moment  he  got  home.  &quot;Does  everyone  else  know?&quot;  he  asked.  He  named  two  or  threeofthe  Tur-  villes'  most  faithful  friends.  &quot;I  don't  know.  They  may,  by  now.  Oh!&quot;  Eileen  burst  out.  &quot;What  I  don't  understand  is,  how  could  she,  after  Cyril?&quot;  &quot;What  is  he  really  like?&quot;  Scoby  could  not  help  feeling  very  curious.  His  sister  hesitated.  Then  she  smiled.  &quot;You  can  see  for  yourself,  tomorrow.  Dolly  has  asked  us  to  have  a  drink.&quot;  HARRY  Portrer  himself  opened  the  front  door  the  following  evening.  Scoby  had  come  from  his  office,  and  Eileen  had  already  arrived.  The  lawyer  saw  before  him  a  tall,  shambling  man,  dressed  in  tweeds  and  what  Scoby  noted  as  an  unspeakable  shirt.  This  stranger,  after  advancing  a  loose-feeling  assort-  ment  of  fingers,  ushered  Scoby  into  the  room  he  knew  as  well  as  his  own.  The  evening  had  turned  chilly.  A  little  fire  crackled  pleasantly  in  the  grate,  before  which  Eileen  stood  on  Cyril's  bit  of  hearthrug,  a  glass  in  her  hand.  Dolly  sprang  up  from  her  chair  to  stand  on  tiptoe  and  pull  Scoby's  head  down  to-  ward  her.  &quot;Well,  Dolly,  you've  given  all  your  friends  a  surprise,&quot;  he  said,  kissing  her  warmly.  Over  her  head-newly  flam-  ing  as  though  fresh  from  the  hair-  dresser,  he  observed  immediately-he  exchanged  glances  briefly  with  Eileen.  Dolly  smiled  up  at  him  a  little  un-  certainly.  &quot;It  didn't  seem  right  without  you  there,  Scoby.  But  it  all  happened  so  suddenly,  didn't  it,  Harry?&quot;  &quot;When  Dolly  made  up  her  mind,  I  didn't  want  to  give  her  a  minute's  chance  to  change  it  again,&quot;  said  the  bridegroom,  showing  a  number  of  to-  bacco-stained  teeth.  He  made  this  state-  ment  with  great  simplicity.  Turning  to  Scoby,  who  was  eying  him  curiously,  he  asked,  &quot;Whiskey,  or  would  you  rather  have  a  gin?&quot;  &quot;Whiskey,  thanks.&quot;  The  days  of  sherry  were  evidently  over.  Potter  crossed  the  floor,  which  quaked  beneath  his  tread,  and  busied  himself  at-Scoby  could  not  help  feel-  ing  with  stupid  resentment-Cyril's  drinks  table.  &quot;How  brown  you  are!&quot;  Dolly  cried,  putting  her  arm  through  Scoby's.  Join-  ing  Eileen,  they  all  three  stood  on  top  of  Cyril.  Scoby  thought,  not  unpleased,   that  only  he  had  remembered.  He  raised  the  large  drink  that  Potter  put  into  his  hand  and  said,  &quot;Here's  to  you  both.&quot;  After  the  first  swallow,  he  looked  at  Potter  again,  as  though  the  taste  might  have  changed  his  first  impression,  which  had  been  one  of  quite  ludicrous  aston-  ishment.  It  had  been  caused  by  the  merely  physical,  of  course.  It  was  ridic-  ulous  that  he  should  not  have  expected  Dolly  to  be  drawn  to  someone  as  unlike  Cyril  as  he  could  possibly  be.  The  effect  of  Potter  in  the  Turvilles'  dim,  precious  little  room  was  that  of  a  Gulliver  cap-  tured,  hauled  in,  and  tacked  down  by  who  knows  what  invisible  threads  on  the  miniature  sofa,  which  had  been  scaled  to  Cyril's  legs.  It  was  so  low  for  its  present  occupant  that  he  had  evident  difficulty,  after  seating  himself  upon  it,  in  juggling  with  his  glass  and  the  silver  snuffbox,  containing  ciga-  " b"rettes,  which  he  brought  out  of  his  pocket  and  offered  Scoby.  He  avoided  his  own  knees  and  managed  every-  thing  finally  with  a  sort  of  slow  precision.  He  wore  dark  glasses,  perhaps  because  of  some  affliction  of  the  eyes,  and  this  gave  his  face  a  cer-  tain  anonymous  quality  that  Scoby  found  disconcerting.  The  areas  of  flesh  surround-  ing  these  circles  of  defensive  blackness  looked  pallid,  fleshy,  and  amiable.  There  was  something  soft  and  somewhat  feminine  about  him;  it  explained  KEileen's  hesitation.  He  had  a  good  nose,  which  had  survived  the  surrounding  wreckage,  as  noses  do.  But  he  looked  a  bit  seedy,  a  bit  bashed  about  by  life,  perhaps.  Scoby  had  had  an  awful  fear  that  Eileen's  description  might  have  been  too  restrained,  and  that  he  would  find  that  poor  Dolly  had  married  some  odd  fish  who  was  young  enough  to  be  her  son.  Younger  than  she  he  certainly  was,  but  Scoby  could  not  decide  by  how  much.  &quot;Are  you  and  Dolly  going  tostay  on  here?&quot;  Scoby  asked  while  Dolly  and  Eileen  were  talking.  &quot;Yes,  I  think  so.  It's  handy  for  the  shop,  for  one  thing,  and  it  couldn't  be  more  delightful.  I  love  it.  It  has  wonderful  atmosphere.  And  it's  perfect  for  her,  don't  you  think?&quot;  He  glanced  over  at  Dolly,  who  was  look-  ing,  Scoby  had  to  admit  to  himself,  a  new  woman-by  which  he  meant  that  she  was  really  looking  the  old  Dolly,  the  real  and  original  Dolly  who  for  more  than  a  year  had  vanished  from  her  friends'  sight.  &quot;We  all  thought  so,&quot;  Scoby  said  shortly,  speaking  for  the  Turvilles  dear,  bereaved  friends  who  had  come  here  for  so  many  years  as  though  to  some  little  shrine  off  the  beaten  track  of  the  world,  where  they  knew  something  better  than  themselves  existed.  What  had  happened  to  them  all?  He  stared  into  his  glass.  &quot;We  met  at  the  local,  you  know.  She  was  always  alone,  so  one  evening  I  asked  her  to  have  a  drink.  After  that,  we  found  we  had  a  lot  in  common.  You  knew  Mr.  Turville  well,  didn't  you?&quot;  &quot;We  were  very  old  friends.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  I  had  known  him.  Dolly  has  told  me  so  much  about  him  that  I  feel I  do,  almost.  He  must  have  been  a  wonderful  character.  How  do  you  think  that  looks,  by  the  way?&quot;  He  nodded  toward  the  fireplace,  and  Scoby  saw  what  he  would  have  noticed  di-  rectly  he  came  in  if  he  had  not  been  so  absorbed  in  looking  Potter  over.  Ever  since  he  could  remember,  a  cloudy  oval  gilt-framed  mirror,  holding  out  sconces  for  candles,  had  hung  there,  but  now  it  had  been  replaced  by  one  of  Cyril's  se-  ries  of  &quot;Dolly&quot;  portraits-was  it  &quot;Dol-  ly  10&quot;  or  &quot;Dolly  13&quot;?  Like  Potter,  it  was  far  too  big  for  the  room.  Dressed  in  a  Chinese  coat,  pretty  as  Cyril's  hor-  ribly  sweet  paint  could  make  her,  and  indecently  young,  Dolly  looked  down  with  a  teasing  smile  at  the  three  middle-  aged  whiskey-drinking  strangers\xe2\x80\x94     Man-place,  river-place,  Man  and  river  of  gold.  -Rosert  Davin  ConEn  four,  Scoby  might  have  said,  except  that  Potter's  age  was  a  poser.  He  was  a  no  man's  land  to  Scoby,  accustomed  as  he  was  to  dealing  with  men  of  certain  accents,  incomes,  and  attitudes.  Cyril,  too,  had  been  an  exception,  but  that  was  different.  Scoby  glanced  quickly  at  Dolly.  She  was  telling  Eileen  some  story,  with  a  great  deal  of  laughter  and  gesturing  of  her  small  hands,  and  he  reflected  that  whiskey  was  not  her  usual  drink.  He  said,  &quot;I  didn't  greatly  admire  Cyril's  work,  to  be  truthful.  It's  a  pleasant  pic-  ture,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;He's  completely  out  of  fashion  now,  certainly.  Dolly  thinks  he'll  come  into  his  own  one  day,  and  I'm  sure  she's  right.  I  love  it.  It's  a  beautiful  thing,  and  so  like  Dolly  now.  I  persuaded  her  to  let  me  hang  it,  and  we  think  it  would  be  nice  to  change  it  every  now  and  then  for  another  of  the  Dolly&quot;  series.&quot;  Scoby  gave  him  an  impenetrable  liz-  ard  stare.  He  had  begun  to  feel  that  Dolly  had  indeed  hooked  a  very  odd  fish,  but  at  the  same  time  he  was  amused.  Potter  spoke  with  the  unctuous  solem-  " b"nity  of  a  guardian  showing  someone  round  a  sacred  place.  With  his  big,  dark  glasses  and  his  big,  soft  face,  he  looked  owlish,  and  also,  in  thosehairy  brown  tweeds,  like  a  rather  nice,  shabby  dog.  Scoby  trusted  that  his  host's  knowledge  of  antiques  was  sounder  than  his  taste  in  art.  Surrendering  his  empty  glass  to  Potter,  he  looked  round  him  and  no-  ticed  that  the  room  had  changed  in  other  respects.  Like  Dolly,  it  had  a  great  air  of  being  renewed  and  gar-  nished.  Someone  had  polished  it  until  it  shone-he  smelled  the  pleasant  smell  of  the  wax-and  he  could  only  think  that  Potter  was  the  proud  housewife.  He  could  imagine  the  man,  an  apron  round  his  middle,  diligently  scrubbing  and  brushing-even  taking  a  needle  and  thread  to  Dolly,  who,  in  the  last  year,  had  acquired  such  a  sad,  uncaring  air  of  coming  apart.  Scoby  had  begun  the  visit  feeling  nervous  and  strained,  but  before  long  he  began  to  feel  relaxed.  It  was  hard  to  say  why,  but  something  pleasant  was  in  the  air  besides  the  smell  of  furniture  polish.  It  had  been  a  tiring  day,  but  he  sat  on.  He  had  half  a  mind  to  accept  the  invitation  given  presently  to  stayfor  supper.  &quot;I'm  a  good  cook,&quot;  said  Potter  en-  couragingly.  &quot;No,  we  must  go,&quot;  said  Scoby,  glancing  at  Eileen.  &quot;Another  evening  soon,  then,&quot;  Dol-  ly  said.  Scoby  was  sitting  beside  her  now,  on  the  sofa.  Potter  got  up  to  show  Eileen  the  beauties  of  a  bit  of  furniture  across  the  room.  He  was  talking  vehemently.  He's  really  not  too  bad,  thought  Scoby.  Dolly  leaned  forward  suddenly.  &quot;What  do  you  think  of  him?&quot;  she  murmured.  She  added  immediately,  &quot;Don't  say,  because  it  doesn't  matter.  Do  you  know  why  I  married  him?  You  must  have  been  surprised.  It's  because  he's  so  like  Cyril.&quot;  With  difficulty,  Scoby  restrained  a  bark  of  laughter.  The  thought  of  his  lost  friend  was  comically  at  odds  with  the  flesh  and  blood  before  him  ofthe  loose-limbed  antique  dealer,  who  had  just  lifted  Dolly's  table  in  his  large  hands  as  though  it  were  a  walnut,  the  better  to  show  a  detail  to  Eileen.  He  gazed  at  his  dear,  idiotic  Dolly  with  a  blend  of  fondness  and  irritation.  She  was  incapable  of  recognizing  the  irre-  placeable.  &quot;We  must  go,&quot;  he  said  more  loudly  to  Eileen's  back.  Potter  stopped  Scoby  for  a  moment  or  two  while  the  women  went  toward  the  door,  so  that  he  could  expound  all  over  again  on  the  charms  ofthe  table.  &quot;Dolly  bought  it  for  three  pounds  in Colchester  before  the  war,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;&quot;She  has  a  really  marvellous  eye.  I  al-  ways  trust  her  taste.&quot;  He  set  down  the  table  delicately,  took  off  his  dark  glasses,  and  briefly  mopped  his  eyes  with  a  handkerchief,  Then,  without  replacing  the  goggles,  he  looked  at  Scoby.  &quot;It  was  one  of  the  interests  that  brought  us  together,  of  course,&quot;  he  said.  Scoby  muttered  something.  Potter's  exposed  eyes  were  weak-a  washed-out  hazel  color-but  there  was  no  mistak-  ing  their  expression.  It  was  startlingly  that  of  Cyril's  unforgettable  blue  ones.  Scoby  had  the  uncanny  impression  that  his  friend  was  beaming  gently  down  at  him  from  that  pudgy  face.  The  recog-  nition  was  instantaneous.  Shaken,  he  hastened  after  the  women,  made  his  farewells,  and  followed  Eileen  down  the  front  steps.  As  they  crossed  the  road,  he  looked  back.  It  was  twilight.  Potter  was  still  standing,  an  arm  dropped  round  Dolly's  shoulders,  the  two  of  them  outlined  in  the  lighted  doorway.  They  went  inside,  and  the  door  shut.  Scoby  could  imagine  Potter  care-  fully  locking  up.  The  little  shrine  was  closed  for  the  day.  Yet  he  had  a  feeling  that  now  the  circle  of  deserting  Tur-  ville  regulars  would  return,  at  first  out  of  curiosity  when  they  heard  the  news,  and  then  because  of  something  else  which  he  could  not  quite  define.  Yes,  as  their  helpless  Dolly  had  done  so  unerringly,  he  reflected,  they  would  recognize  what  they  had  missed,  all  of  them,  since  Cyril's  death.  And  un-  able  for  once  to  file  his  thoughts  neatly,  for  the  mixture  of  relief  on  Dolly's  behalf  and  faint  melancholy  on  his  own  was  confusing,  he  said  little  as  he  and  Eileen  walked  home,  only  agree-  ing  with  his  sister's  suddenly  cheerful  conviction  that,  after  all,  everything  had  happened  for  the  best. "