 b"WE  defended  the  city  as  best  we  could.  The  arrows  of  the  Co-  manches  came  in  clouds.  The  war  clubs  of  the  Comanches  clattered  on  the  soft,  yellow  pavements.  There  were  earthworks  along  the  Boulevard  Mark  Clark  and  the  hedges  had  been  laced  with  sparkling  wire.  People  were  trying  to  understand.  I  spoke  to  Sylvia.  &quot;Do  you  think  this  is  a  good  life?&quot;  The  table  held  apples,  books,  long-  playing  records.  She  looked  up.  &quot;No.&quot;  Patrols  of  paras  and  volunteers  with  armbands  guarded  the  tall,  flat  build-  ings.  We  interrogated  the  captured  Comanche.  Two  of  us  forced  his  head  back  while  another  poured  water  into  his  nostrils.  His  body  jerked,  he  choked  and  wept.  Not  believing  a  hurried,  careless,  and  exaggerated  report  of  the  number  of  casualties  in  the  outer  dis-  tricts  where  trees,  lamps,  swans  had  been  reduced  toclear  fields  of  fire  we  issued  entrenching  tools  to  those  who  seemed  trustworthy  and  turned  the  heavy-weapons  companies  so  that  we  could  not  be  surprised  from  that  direction.  And  I  sat  there  getting  drunker  and  drunker  and  more  in  love  and  more  in  love.  We  talked.  &quot;Do  you  know  Faur\xc3\xa9's  \xe2\x80\x98D01137,?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Would  that  be  briel  Faur\xc3\xa9?&quot;  &quot;It  would.&quot;  &quot;'Then  I  know  it,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;May  I  say  that  I  play  it  myself  at  certain  times,  when  I  am  sad,  or  happy,  although  it  requires  four  hands.&quot;  &quot;How  is  aged?&quot;  &quot;I  accelerate,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;ignoring  the  time  signa-  ture.&quot;  And  when  they  shot  the  scene  in  the  bed  I  won-  dered  how  you  felt  under  the  eyes  of  the  camera-  men,  grips,  juicers,  men  in  the  mixing  booth:  ex-  cited?  stimulated?  And  when  they  shot  the  scene  in  the  shower  I  sanded  a  hollow-core  door  working  carefully  against  the  illus-  trations  in  texts  and  whis-  pered  instructions  from  one  who  had  already  solved  the  problem.  I  had  made  after  all  other  tables,  Ga-  that  man-  one  while  living  with  Nancy,  one  while  living  with  Alice,  one  while  living  with  Eunice,  one  while  living  with  Marianne.  Red  men  in  waves  like  people  scat-  tering  in  a  square  startled  by  something  tragic  or  a  sudden,loud  noise  ac-  cumulated  against  the  barricades  we  had  made  of  window  dummies,  silk,  thoughtfully  planned  job  descriptions  {}{including  scales  for  the  orderly  prog-  ress  of  other  colors),  wine  in  demi-  johns,  and  robes.  I  analyzed  the  com-  position  of  the  barricade  nearest  me  and  found  two  ashtrays,  ceramic,  one  dark  brown  and  one  dark  brown  with  an  orange  blur  at  the  lip;  a  tin  frying  pan;  two-litre  bottles  of  red  wine;  three-  quarter-litre  bottles  of  Black  &amp;  White,  aquavit,  cognac,  vodka,  gin,  Fad  #6  sherry;  a  hollow-core  door  in  birch  veneer  on  black  wrought-iron  legs;  a  blanket,  red-orange  with  faint  blue  stripes;  a  red  pillow  and  a  blue  pillow;    a  woven  straw  wastebasket;  two  glass  jars  for  flowers;  corkscrews  and  can  openers;  two  plates  and  two  cups,  ceramic,  dark  brown;  a  yellow-and-  purple  poster;  a  Yugoslavian  carved  flute,  wood,  dark  brown;  and  other  items.  I  decided  I  knew  nothing.  The  hospitals  dusted  wounds  with  powders  the  worth  of  which  was  not  quite  established,  other  supplies  having  been  exhausted  early  in  the  first  day.  I  decided  I  knew  nothing.  Friends  put  me  in  touch  with  a  Miss  R.,  a  teach-  er,  unorthodox  they  said,  excellent  they  said,  successful  with  difficult  cases,  steel  shutters  on  the  windows  made  her  house  safe.  I  had  just  learned  via  an  International  Distress  Coupon  that  Jane  had  been  beaten  up  by  a  dwarf  in  a  bar  in  Tenerife  but  MissR.  did  not  allow  me  to  speak  of  it.  &quot;You  know  nothing,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you  feel  nothing,  you  are  locked  in  a  most  savage  and  terrible  ignorance,  I  despise  you,  my  boy,  mor  cher,  my  heart.  You  may  attend  but  youmust  not  attend  now,  you  must  attend  later,  a  day  or  a  week  or  an  hour,  you  are  making  me  ill.  .  ..&quot;  I  nonevalu-  ated  these  remarks  as  Korzybski  instructed.  But  it  was  difficult.  Then  they  pulled  back  in  a  feint  near  the  river  and  we  rushed  into  that  sector  with  areinforced  battalion  hastily  formed  among  the  Zouaves  and  cabdrivers.  This  unit  was  crushed  in  the  afternoon  of  a  day  that  began  with  spoons  and  letters  in  hallways  and  under  win-  dows  where  men  tasted  the  history  of  the  heart,  cone-shaped  muscular  organ  that  maintains  cir-  culation  of  the  blood.  But  it  is  you  I  want  now,  here  in  the  middle  of  this  Uprising,  with  the  streets  yellow  and  threatening,  short,  ugly  lances  with  fur  at  the  throat  and  inexplicable  shell  money  lying  in  the  grass.  It  is  when  I  am  with  you  that  I  am  hap-  piest,  and  itis  for  you  that  I  am  making  this  hollow-core  door  table  with  black  wrought-iron  legs.  I  held  Sylvia  by  her  bear-claw  necklace.  &quot;Call  off  your  braves,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  have  many " b" years  left  to  live.&quot;  There  was  a  sort  of  muck  running  in  the  gutters,  yel-  lowish,  filthy  stream  suggesting  excre-  ment,  or  nervousness,  a  city  that  does  not  know  what  it  has  done  to  deserve  baldness,  errors,  infidelity.  &quot;With  luck  you  will  survive  until  matins,&quot;  Sylvia  said.  She  ran  off  down  the  Rue  Chester  Nimitz,  uttering  shrill  cries.  Then  it  was  learned  that  they  had  infiltrated  our  ghetto  and  that  the  peo-  ple  of  the  ghetto  instead  of  offering  resistance  had  joined  the  smooth,  well-  coordinated  attack  with  zipguns,  tele-  grams,  lockets,  causing  that  portion  of  the  line  held  by  the  IR.A.  to  swell  and  collapse.  We  sent  more  heroin  into  the  ghetto,  and  hyacinths,  ordering  an-  other  hundred  thousand  of  the  pale,  delicate  flowers.  On  the  map  we  con-  sidered  the  situation  with  its  strung-out  inhabitants  and  merely  personal  emo-  tions.  Our  parts  were  blue  and  their  parts  were  green.  I  showed  the  blue-  and-green  map  to  Sylvia.  &quot;Your  parts  are  green,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  gave  me  her-  oin  first  a  year  ago,&quot;  Sylvia  said.  She  ran  off  down  George  C.  Marshall  All\xc3\xa9e,  uttering  shrill  cries.  Miss  R.  pushed  me  into  a  large  room  painted  white  (jolting  and  dancing  in  the  soft  light,  and  I  was  excited!  and  there  were  people  watching!  )  in  which  there  were  two  chairs.  I  sat  in  one  chair  and  Miss  R.  sat  in  the  other.  She  wore  a  blue  dress  containing  a  red  figure.  There  was  nothing  exceptional  about  her.  I  was  disappointed  by  her  plainness,  by  the  bareness  of  the  room,  by  the  absence  of  books.  a  I  HE  girls  of  my  quarter  wore  long  blue  mufflers  that  reached  to  their  knees.  Sometimes  the  girls  hid  Comanches  in  their  rooms,  the  blue  mufflers  together  in  a  room  creating  a  great  blue  fog.  Block  opened  the  door.  He  was  carrying  weapons,  flowers,  loaves  of  bread.  And  he  was  friendly,  kind,  enthusiastic,  so  I  related  a  little  of  the  history  of  torture,  reviewing  the  technical  literature  quoting  the  best  modern  sources,  French,  German,  and  556e6974656420537461746573n,  and  pointing  out  the  flies  which  had  gathered  in  anticipation  of  some  new,  cool  color.  &quot;What  is  the  situation?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;'The  situation  is  liquid,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  hold  the  south  quarter  and  they  hold  the  north  quarter.  The  rest  is  silence.&quot;  &quot;And  Kenneth?&quot;  &quot;'That  girl  is  not  in  love  with  Kenneth,&quot;  Block  said  frankly.  &quot;She  is  in  love  with  his  coat.  When  she  is  not  wearing  it  she  is  huddling  under  it.  Once  I  caught  it  going  down  the stairs  by  itself.  I  looked  inside.  Sylvia.&quot;  Once  I  caught  Kenneth's  coat  go-  ing  down  the  stairs  by  itself  but  the  coat  was  a  trap  and  inside  a  Comanche  who  made  a  thrust  with  his  short,  ugly  knife  at  my  leg  which  buckled  and  tossed  me  over  the  balustrade  through  a  window  and  into  another  situation.  Not  believing  that  your  body  brilliant  as  it  was  and  your  fat,  liquid  spirit  dis-  tinguished  and  angry  as  it  was  were  stable  quantities  to  which  one  could  return  on  wires  more  than  once,  twice,  or  another  number  of  times  I  said:  &quot;See  the  table?&quot;  In  Skinny  Wainwright  Square  the  forces  of  green  and  blue  swayed  and  struggled.  The  referees  ran  out  on  the  field  trailing  chains.  And  then  the  blue  part  would  be  enlarged,  the  green  di-  minished.  Miss  R.  began  to  speak.  &quot;A  former  king  of  537061696e,  a  Bonaparte,  lived  for  a  time  in  Bordentown,  New  Jersey.  But  that's  no  good.&quot;  She  paused.  &quot;''The  ardor  aroused  in  men  by  the  beauty  of  women  can  only  be  satisfied  by  God.     That  is  very  good  (it  is  Val\xc3\xa9ry)  but  it  is  not  what  I  have  to  teach  you,  goat,  muck,  filth,  heart  of  my  heart.&quot;  I  showed  the  table  to  Nancy.  &quot;See  the  table?&quot;  She  stuck  out  her  tongue  red  as  a  cardinal's  hat.  &quot;I  made  such  a  table  once,&quot;  Block  said  frankly.  &quot;Peo-  ple  all  over  [REDACTED]  have  made  such  tables.  I  doubt  very  much  whether  one  can  enter  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  home  without  finding  at  least  one  such  table,  or  traces  of  its  having  been  there,  such  as  faded  places  in  the  carpet.&quot;  And  afterward  in  the  garden  the  men  of  the  7th  Cavalry  played  Gabrieli,  Albinoni,  Marcello,  Vivaldi,  Boccherini.  I  saw  Sylvia.  She  wore  a  yellow  ribbon,  under  a  long  blue  muffler.  &quot;Which  side  are  you  on,&quot;  I  cried,  &quot;after  all?&quot;  &quot;The  only  form  of  discourse  of  which  I  approve,&quot;  Miss  R.  said  in  her  dry,  sack  voice,  &quot;is  the  litany.  I  be-  lieve  our  masters  and  teachers  as  well  as  plain  citizens  should  confine  them-  selves  to  what  can  safely  be  said.  Thus  when  I  hear  the  words  pewter,  snake,  " b"tea,  Fad  #6  sherry,  servictte,  fenes-  tration,  crown,  blue  coming  from  the  mouth  of  some  public  official,  or  some  raw  youth,  I  am  not  disappointed.  Vertical  organization  is  also  possible,&quot;  Miss  R.  said,  &quot;as  in  pewter  snake  tea  Fad  #6  sherry  serviette  fenestration  crown  blue.  I  run  to  liquids  and  colors,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  you,  you  may  run  to  something  else,  my  virgin,  my  darling,  my  thistle,  my  poppet,  my  own.  Young  people,&quot;  Miss  R.  said,  &quot;run  to  more  and  more  unpleasant  combinations  as  they  sense  the  nature  of  our  society.  Some  people,&quot;  Miss  R.  said,  &quot;run  to  conceits  or  wisdom  but  I  hold  to  the  hard,  brown,  nut-  like  word.  I  might  point  out  that  there  is  enough  aesthetic  excitement  here  to  satisfy  anyone  but  a  damned  fool.&quot;  I  sat  in  solemn  silence.  FIRE  arrows  lit  my  way  to  the  post  office  in  Patton  Place  where  mem-  bers  of  the  Abraham  Lincoln  Brigade  offered  their  last,  exhausted  letters,  post-  cards,  calendars.  I  opened  a  letter  but  inside  was  a  Comanche  flint  arrowhead  played  by  Frank  Wedekind  in  an  ele-  gant  gold  chain  and  congratulations.  Your  earring  rattled  against  my  spec-  tacles  when  I  leaned  forward  to  touch  the  soft,  ruined  place  where  the  hear-  ing  aid  had  been.  &quot;Pack  it  up!  Pack  it  up!&quot;  I  urged,  but  the  men  in  charge  of  the  Uprising  refused  to  listen  to  reason  or  to  understand  that  it  was  real  and  that  our  water  supply  had  evaporated  and  that  our  credit  was  no  longer  what  it  had  been,  once.  We  attached  wires  to  the  testicles  of  the  captured  Comanche.  And  I  sat  there  getting  drunker  and  drunker  and  more  in  love  and  more  in  love.  When  we  threw  the  switch  he  spoke.  His  name,  he  said,  was  Gustave  Aschen-  bach.  He  was  born  at  L--,  a  country  town  in  the  province  of  Silesia.  He  was  the  son  of  an  upper  official  in  the  judicature,  and  his  forebears  had  all  been  officers,  judges,  departmental  functionaries.  ...  And  you  can  never  touch  a  girl  in  the  same  way  more  than  once,  twice,  or  another  number  of  times  however  much  you  may  wish  to  hold,  wrap,  or  otherwise  fix  her  hand,  or  look,  or  some  other  quality,  or  incident,  known  to  you  previously.  In  [REDACTED]  the  little  Swedish  children  cheered  when  we  managed  nothing  more  re-  markable  than  getting  off  a  bus  bur-dened  with  packages,  bread  and  liver-  paste  and  beer.  We  went  to  an  old  church  and  sat  in  the  royal  box.  The  organist  was  practicing.  And  then  into  the  graveyard  next  to  the  church.  Here  lies  Anna  Pedersen,  a  good  woman.  I  threw  a  mushroom  on  the  grave.  The  officer  commanding  the  garbage  dump  reported  by  radio  that  the  garbage  had  begun  to  move.  Jane!  I  heard  via  an  International  Distress  Coupon  that  you  were  beaten   up  by  a  dwarf  in  a  bar  in  Tenerife.  That  doesn't  sound  like  you,  Jane.  Mostly  you  kick  the  dwarf  in  his  little  dwarf  groin  before  he  can  get  his  tecth  into  your  tasty  and  nice-looking  leg,  don't  you,  Jane?  Your  affair  with  Harold  is  reprehensible,  you  know  that,  don't  you,  Jane?  Harold  is  mar-  riedto  Nancy.  And  there  is  Paula  to  think  about  (Harold's  kid),  and  Billy  (Harold's  other  kid).  I  think  your  values  are  peculiar,  Jane!  Strings  of  language  extend  in  every  direction  to  bind  the  world  into  a  rushing,  seamless  whole.  And  you  can  never  return  to  felici-  ties  in  the  same  way,  the  brilliant  body,  the  distinguished  spirit  recapitulating  moments  that  occur  once,  twice,  or  another  number  of  times  in  rebellions,  or  water.  The  rolling  consensus  of  the  Comanche  nation  smashed  our  inner  defenses  on  three  sides.  Block  was  firing  a  greasegun  from  the  upper  floor  of  a  building  designed  by  Emery  Roth  &amp;  Sons.  &quot;See  the  table?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  pack  it  up  with  your  bloody  table!&quot;  The  city  officials  were  tied  to  trees.  Dusky  war-  riors  padded  with  their  forest  tread  into  the  mouth  of  the  mayor.  &quot;Who  do  you  want  to  be?&quot;  I  asked  Kenneth  and  he  said  he  wanted  to  be  Jean-Luc  Godard  but  later  when  time  permitted  " b"conversations  inlarge,  lighted  rooms,  whispering  galleries  with  black-and-  white  Spanish  rugs  and  problematic  sculptures  on  calm,  red  catafalques.  The  sickness  of  the  quarrel  lay  thick  in  the  bed.  I  touched  your  back,  the  white,  raised  scars.  We  killed  agreat  many  in  the  south  suddenly  with  helicopters  and  rockets  but  we  found  that  those  we  had  killed  were  children  and  more  came  from  the  north  andfrom  the  east  andfrom  other  places  where  there  are  children  pre-  paring  to  live.  &quot;Skin,&quot;  Miss  R.  said  softlyin  the  white,  yellow  room.  &quot;'This  is  the  Clemency  Committee.  And  would  you  remove  your  belt  and  shoe-  laces.&quot;  I  removed  my  belt  and  shoe-  laces  and  looked  (rain  shattering  from  agreat  height  the  prospects  of  silence  and  clear,  neat  rows  of  houses  in  the  subdivisions)  into  their  savage  black  eyes,  paint,  feathers,  beads.  "