 b"I NEVER  knew  which  came  first  in  I  my  mother:  whether  it  was  that  being  alone  all  day  in  our  house  in  the  country  outside  [REDACTED]  made  her  come  to  treasure  solitude,  or  whether  what  I  certainly  grew  up  assuming  was  innatelove  of  solitude  made  her  choose  tostay  alone.  Only  since  I  grew  up  did  it  occur  to  me  that  she  might  have  liked  to  see  more  people.  My  father  saw  plenty  of  people.  In  the  course  of  his  two  days  a  week  teach-  ing  life  drawing  and  anatomy  at  the  [REDACTED]  Museum  School,  his  other  days  crowded  with  models  and  pupils  in  his  [REDACTED]  studio,  and,  for  much  of  my  childhood,  his  weekly  trip  by  train  to  [REDACTED]  to  teach  at  the  Pennsyl-  vania  Academy,  he  had  reason  enough  to  long  for  solitude.  Groans  and  cries  of  agony  arose  from  him  when,  at  rare  intervals,  it  was  necessary  to  give  a  dinner  party.  He  liked  to  spend  the  early  evenings  before  the  fire  with  my  mother  and,  after  she  had  gone  to  bed,  sitting  in  his  study  in  a  barrel  chair  with  a  swinging  side  arm,  drawing  under  a  blue  bulb  shaded  by  a  paper-clipped  sheet  of  paper.  He  would  be  copying  the  drawings  of  Ingres,  Watteau,  and  Michelangelo,  the  way  a  pianist  per-  petually  practices;  making  drypoints  on  a  copper  plate  with  a  ruby  pen;  drawing  some  more  just  for  the  pleas  ure  of  drawing  some  more,  until  two  or  even  three  in  the  morning,  al-  though  he  had  to  get  up  at  six  to  have  his  cold  bath  and  his  breakfast  before  walking  amile  to  the  station  to  catch  the  eight-five  to  town.  No  one,  not  even  old  friends,  sus-  pected  how  passionately  my  parents  clung  to  being  alone.  I  was  privy  to  their  guilty  secret  because  I  used  to  hear  those  groans  that  prefaced  a  party,  and  I  used  to  see  their  expressions  of  horror  when  the  telephone  or  doorbell  rang.  In  the  case  of  my  father,  it  was  hard  for  anyone  to  guess  he  was  a  solitude-lover,  because  he  was  such  a  witty  conversationalist.  His  gaicty  of  manner  was,  however,  actually  a  shell  left  over  froman  earlier  part  of  his  life.  Among  the  four  of  his  brothers  who  lived  to  grow  up,  his  younger  brother  Robbie  was  his  favorite.  Happy,  out-  going,  sociable,  Robbie's  temperament  was  the  very  opposite  of  my  father's.  My  father  had  been  a  sad  little  boy.  A  photograph  of  him  in  about  1870,  as  a  child  of  five,  wearing  a  short  tartan  dress  and  high  button  boots,  reveals  a  deeply  melancholy  expression.  I  re-  member  his  telling  me  that  as  a  young man  he  went  through  tortures  when  he  had  to  appear  in  company,  because  he  feared  he  could  find  absolutely  noth-  ing  whatever  to  say  to  anyone.  But  then,  in  his  twenties,  he  began  going  about  to  parties  with  Robbie  and  Robbie's  host  of  friends.  Even  today,  seventy  years  later,  there  are,  still  living,  556e6974656420537461746573ians  who  remember  the  golden  Robbie.  In  that  aura  my  father  developed  confidence,  and  a  brand  of  wit-often  cynical,  sometimes  acerbic-that  was,  I  think,  a  kind  of  protection,  and  certainly  belied  his  tender  heart.  Thus  equipped,  in  the  years  before  his  marriage,  he  went  out  a  good  deal  in  [REDACTED]  society.  Then  Robbie  took  a  summer  walk-  ing  trip  in  the  White  Mountains  with  a  Harvard  classmate.  When  they  got  thirsty,  they  drank  from  a  country  spring-the  classmate  sparingly,  Robbie  deep.  Both  came  down  with  typhoid  fever,  but  only  the  classmate  survived.  The  gifted  Robbie,  some  of  whose  poetry  had  already  been  published  -the  beloved,  the  unforgettable-was  dead  at  twenty-five.  The  friends  my  father  had  made,  during  the  short  sociable  years,  he  kept,  but  he  saw  them  rarely,  for  he  simply  did  not  want  to  see  peo-  ple  anymore.  My  mother  told  me  he  told  her  it  made  him  feel  sick  to  go  into  society  with  Robbie  dead.  Whatever  he  felt  he  so  concealed  that  all  my  life  peo-  ple  have  saidto  me,  &quot;Your  father  had  such  a  social  gift  ..  .  so  witty  ..  .  such  a  conversationalist.&quot;  To  me,  the  gloomy  little  face  in  the  early  photograph  seems  a  truer  portrait.  Before  the  fire,  after  dinner  in  our  house  in  the  country,  he  loved  to  read  poetry  aloud  to  my  mother,  but  at  some  lines  his  voice  would  break:  To  sail  beyond  the  sunset,  and  the  baths  Dirall  the  western  stars,  until  I  12.  It  may  be  that  the  gulfs  will  wash  us  down;  It  may  be  we  shall  touch  the  Happy  Isles  And  see  the  great  Achilles,  whom  we  knew.  ...  In  the  case  of  my  mother,  people  could  never  believe  that  someone  so  beautiful  and  elegant,  someone  so  emi-  nently  designed  by  nature  to  be  stared  at,  should  not  welcome  the  opportunity  to  suffer  herself  to  be  admired.  She  looked  like  a  du  Maurier  lady,  like  a  duchess.  I  remember  my  father's  telling  me  how  on  a  trip  to  England  during  their  honeymoon,  when  they  hired  a  carriage  and  drove  through  Hyde  Park,  a  disconcerting  number  of  pedestrians  took  off  their  hats  and  bowed,  and  it  finally  dawned  on  him  that  they  thought  my  mother  was  some  great  " b"lady-titled,  powerful.  She  had  large,  limpid  gray  eyes,  a  Roman  nose,  an  exquisitely  massive  chin.  My  father  said  that  at  a  dinner  party  during  the  honey-  moon  some  gentleman  declaimed,  &quot;A  Napoleonic  nose  and  a  Wellingtonian  chin,  and  a  man  might  well  meet  his  Waterloo,  between!&quot;  My  mother,  who  was  married  at  barely  twenty,  was,  I  feel  sure,  perfectly  appalled.  She  was  more  than  modest  about  her  beauty;  she  was  maddening.  When  I  was  myself  a  young  girl  growing  up,  I  couldnot  but  feel  it  unfair  when  I,  the  type  of  girl  to  whom  people  said,  &quot;When  you  smile  your  face  becomes  quite  lovely,&quot;  had  to  listen  to  that  rav-  ing,  tearing  Juno  bemoan  her  looks.  God  knows  what  she  was  compar-  ing  herself  with-Gainsborough's  Mrs.  Elliott,  Mrs.  Siddons  as  the  Tragic  Muse?  If  she  was  an  old  hag,  what  did  that  make  me?  She,  alone  of  hu-  manity,  never  really  believed  she  was  beautiful.  After  a  while,  when  she  got  a  compliment,  she  learned  to  receive  it,  with  surprise  and  pleasure.  Then  she  would  forget  it,  so  the  next  compli-  ment  was  just  as  astonishing  to  her.  When  I  was  a  little  girl,  I  used  to  get  into  bed  between  my  father  and  mother  in  the  early  mornings,  when  my  mother  was  not  yet  really  awake.  My  father  would  improve  the  shining  hour  by  telling  me  stories-tall  tales,  as  all  his  stories  were.  &quot;Did  you  know  Mamma  saved  the  United  [REDACTED]  from  destruction  by  the  Germans?&quot;  he  would  whisper.  (The  year  would  have  been  about  1916.)  &quot;'The  Kaiser  sent  his  fleet  over  here  to  take  the  country  by  storm,  but  spies  got  wind  of  the  plot.  Suddenly  President  Wilson  had  a  wonderful  idea.  'Send  for  old  Lily!'  he  said.  So-o-O,  they  got  Mamma,  and  launched  her  out  into  New  York  [REDACTED],  swimming.  And  she,  alone  and  unaided,  sank  the  German  battleships  by  ramming  them  with  her  chin.&quot;  At  that  age,  I  found  this  story  as  probable  as  any  other,  and  years  later  my  mother  told  me  that  lying  there  half  asleep,  waiting  for  breakfast  to  be  brought  to  her,  she  would  wonder,  vaguely,  if  perhaps  she  hadn't  sunk  some  battleships  with  her  chin,  somewhere  ...  just  a  few.  She  had  always  been  a  dreamy  girl.  Photographs  taken  of  her  in  the  year  before  her  marriage  show  her  sitting  on  the  lawn  of  the  house  in  [REDACTED]  where  she  grew  up,  wearing  a  long,  full-skirted  dress  with  leg-of-mutton  sleeves  and  a  jabot.  In  a  few  of  the  pictures,  she  is  leaning  over  the  drawing  she  is  at  work  on,  her  white  face-al-  most  Italian  against  her  dark  hair-  intent  and  abstracted.  In  another,     someone  has  called  to  her  and  she  looks  up,  startled;  about  her  that  air  of  hau-  teur  everyone  always  noticed,  and  which  was  so  misleading.  In  another  picture  she  is  leaning  back,  hands  limp  in  lap,  eyes  downcast,  as  though  listen-  ing  to  voices  from  some  private  world.  Her  private  world  was  not  at  any  age  the  same  as  other  girls'.  At  eight-  een  it  was  not  the  dream  of  beaux  and  dances  that,  for  example,  her  older  sister's  was.  That  sister,  my  aunt,  used  to  tell  a  story  to  demonstrate  my  moth-  er's  scorn  ofboys.  Both  sisters  used  often  to  be  invited  to  cotillions  at  Trin-  ity  College  and  to  Proms  at  Yale,  and  at  one  of  the  latter  my  mother,  ravish-  ingly  beautiful,  escaped  a  group  of  ad-  mirers  to  cling  to  her  popular  sister  and  hiss,  &quot;Those  men  want  to  dence  with  me!  Make  them  stop!&quot;  She  thought  boys  were  what  she  later  learned  from  my  father  to  call  &quot;the  least  of  God's  mercies.&quot;  She  met  my  father  in  [REDACTED],  where  she  went  to  study  art.  He  was  seventeen  years  older  than  she,  a  painter  with  fifteen  years  of  training  in  the  [REDACTED]  ateliers,  and  phe-  nomenally  learned  in  art  and  art  his-  tory.  He  was  the  only  man  who  ever  attracted  her;  for  what  she  had  been  dreaming  of,  even  when  she  was  a  little  girl,  was  art.  Art  was  to  her  so  impor-  tant  that  beside  it  clothes,  parties,  flirta-  tions,  even  the  idea  of  marriage,  were  trivial.  When  I  myself  began  going  to  dances,  in  [REDACTED],  my  mother  used  to  view  my  enthusiasm  with  a  sort  of  incredulity.  She  shocked  me  once  when  I  was  about  eighteen  by  saying  of  one  of  my  friends,  &quot;All  she  seems  to  want  to  do  is  get  married  and  have  children.  It  isn't  serious!&quot;  During  my  childhood,  I  would  have  breakfast  with  my  father  at  the  round  dining-room  table.  He  taught  me  a  game  to  play  with  my  bowl  of  Ralston  or  oatmeal:  &quot;Once  there  was  an  is-  land.  And  then  one  day  it  began  to  rai-aim.  White  rain.  And  it  rained,  and  it  rained.  And  then  it  began  to  s#o-ow.  And  it  snowed  and  it  snowed.  ...&quot;  He  and  I  used  to  duel  with  our  knives  within  the  depths  of  the  jam  crock-  the  five-pound  stone  jar  S.S.  Pierce  sold  strawberry  jam  in-to  secure  for  ourselves  the  largest  nuggets.  It  was  a  cheerful  meal,  and  afterward  we  would  walk  down  to  the  village,  a  mile  away-I  to  kindergarten  and  later  to  school,  he  to  the  railroad  station.  My  mother  was,  for  all  those  years,  left  at  home  in  the  two-hundred-year-old  cot-  tage  backing  up  against  the  woods,  to  pursue  her  secret  life  all  day  alone.  My  father  almost  never  took  a  day  off  from  his  work.  He  did  not  stop  for  any  holidays,  except  the  engrossing  ritu-  als  of  Christmas;  he  did  not  stop  for  sickness  (he  once  discovered  from  an  old  friend,  my  mother's  physician,  who,  happening  to  call  in  the  evening,  in-  sisted  on  looking  at  his  chest,  that  he  was  recuperating  from  pneumonia)  ;  he  especially  did  not  stop  for  Sundays,  when  all  the  pupils  and  models  were  " b"out  from  underfoot  and  he  could  have  his  studio  to  himself.  Thus,  I  don't  think  my  father  ever  had  the  oppor-  tunity  to  witness  one  of  my  mother's  days  at  home.  But  I  did,  when  I  had  a  cold  and  was  kept  out  of  school.  For  a  little  girl  there  is  no  feeling  of  grandeur  quite  like  being  able  to  do  as  one's  mother  does.  Now,  only  agreeably  ailing,  I,  too,  could  have  breakfast  in  bed,  in  the  guest  room,  where  I  slept  when  I  was  sick,  be  waved  goodbye  to  from  my  bedroom  door  by  my  father,  and  hear  the  loud,  cheerful  sounds  of  his  departure.  I  was  not  quite  grown-up  lady  enough,  however,  to  resist  springing  from  bed  then,  to  knock  on  the  windowpane  and  see  my  father-stout,  mustachioed,  bowler-  hatted,  equipped  with  galoshes  and  um-  brella-turn  on  the  front  walk  to  wave  up  at  me.  After  my  mother  dressed,  and  before  she  went  to  work,  she  would  supply  me  for  the  morning  with  my  school  as-  signments  that  would  havebeen  de-  livered  the  afternoon  before  by  one  of  my  classmates;  also  with  something  more  solid  to  get  my  teeth  into,  like  &quot;Pride  and  Prejudice&quot;  or  &quot;Jane  Eyre.&quot;  After  she  had  straightened  my  bed-  clothes,  shaken  up  my  pillows,  seen  that  I  had  a  glass  and  pitcher  of  water  beside  my  bed  (&quot;You  must  drink  guentities  of  water,  darling&quot;),  she  would  depart,  with  a  sound  of  tapping  heels,  and  I  would  plunge  into  the  ardors  of  Mr.  Rochester,  and  his  mad  wife.  Then,  gradually  and  by  impercep-  tible  degrees,  consciousness  would  de-  scend  upon  me-or  perhaps  it  was  that  I  would  begin  to  support  the  conscious-  ness-of  silence.  My  book  slipped  back  among  the  litter  of  other  books  upon  the  counterpane,-and  I  would  lie  there  and  listen  to  the  stillness  and  to  those  tiny  sounds  that  accented  the  stillness.  The  house  itself  made  minute,  mysterious  sounds-the  drop  of  the  merest  splinter  upon  the  attic  floor  overhead;  a  sigh  in  the  walls  where  some  old  joist  had  further  settled;  the  little,  complaining  creaks  a  flight  of  stairs  makes,  as  though  recovering  from  being  climbed  up.  I  think  of  those  days  as  being  always  in  the  wintertime,  and  perhaps  they  were,  because  that  was  when  I  caught  cold.  In  those  New  England  winters,  snow  generally  covered  the  ground  from  December  to  March.  To  the  right  of  where  I  lay  in  bed  were  two  small-  paned  windows,  and  through  them,  when  there  was  a  blizzard,  I  saw  the  snow  falling,  falling,  in  a  curious,  leaden  light.  If  it  was  a  sunny  day,  the  dazzle  from  the  glassy  crust  shone through  the  windows  excitingly,  speak-  ing  of  imaginary  sleighs  and  skating  parties.  In  the  long  hours  of  stillness  I  could  hear  the  sound  even  the  smallest  leaf  made  as  it  skittered,  scratching,  across  the  crust  of  the  snow.  From  far  away  in  the  back  of  the  house  came  faint  domestic  sounds-  the  coal  range  being  shaken  down,  the  black  iron  door  to  the  oven  opened  and  shut.  I  have  no  recollections  of  the  hum  ofa  vacuum  cleaner,  because  we  never  owned  a  vacuum  cleaner.  Somehow  things  got  done  about  the  house,  but  notby  my  mother.  Her  mornings  were,  properly,  for  work.  'The  sounds  of  her  working  made  a  principal  part  of  that  tiny  accenting  to  the  snowy  silence,  and  I  could  identify  each  sound.  There  was  the  sharp,  steady  sawing  of  charcoal  (sharpened  to  a  needle  point  with  a  razor  blade)  up  and  down  against  the  sheet  of  Strathmore  board  on  my  mother's  easel  as  she  worked  on  a  snow  scene  from  the  windows  of  the  front  hall  that,  with  the  aid  of  a  ward-  robe  and  a  chest  of  drawers,  my  father  used  as  a  dressing  room.  'There  would  come  a  pause  in  the  sawing,  and  a  faint  rattle,  while  she  rummaged  around  in  the  blue-edged  box  that  French  char-  coal  came  in.  A  clack-she  had  dropped  something  on  the  floor.  If  it  was  char-  coal,  it  fell  with  a  small  explosion.  Then  a  scratchy,  rubbing  sound,  which  was  the  careful  filing  of  the  sides  of  her  stick  of  charcoal  against  the  board  covered  with  fine  sandpaper  which  had  a  handle  to  keep  one's  fingers  clean.  A  pause.  'Then  would  recommence  the    sawing  of  the  point  drawn  rhythmically  up  and  down.  I  would  go  back  to  Miss  Bront\xc3\xa9,  or  make  a  stab  at  arithmetic,  but  every  now  and  then  I  would  give  myself  over  again  to  restin  the  long  morning's  stillness.  Sometime  near  noon,  the  day's  let-  ters  would  come  pouring  in  through  the  slot  in  the  front  door,  onto  the  hall  floor,  with  a  splash.  Springing  out  of  bed,  I  would  run  downstairs,  in  my  warm  wrapper  and  pink  felt  Daniel  Green  slippers  with  silk  pompons  on  the  toes,  to  pick  them  up.  Usually  there  was  nothing  for  me;  still,  it  did  no  harm  to  look.  Then  I  would  carry  the  letters  up  to  the  front  hall.  &quot;Put  them  down  there,  will  you,  darling?&quot;  my  mother  would  say,  ab-  stractedly.  She  sat,  beautifully  erect,  on  a  high  stool,  her  right  arm  out  at  full  length,  holding  the  charcoal  in  its  French  brass  holder.  'The  charcoal  would  be  moving  slowly,  tentatively,  as  though  groping,  along  the  page,  as  her  face  kept  turning,  alertly,  from  draw-  ing  to  scene  outside  the  windows;  or  the  charcoal  would  all  at  once  move  decisively,  in  a  long  line  that  ran  down  the  paper-nervous,  clegant,  intensely  black.  If  I  stood  watching  for  very  long,  my  mother  would  drop  the  out-  stretched  arm  to  her  side  and  turn  around  as  though  someone  had  waked  her  up  from  sleep.  &quot;Gracious,  go  back  to  bed!&quot;  she  would  ery.  &quot;You'll  catch  more  cold  if  you  don't  keep  warm.&quot;  After  lunch,  which  she  had  in  the  dining  room,  Iin  bed,  the  light  would  have  changed  too  much  for  her  to  continue  with  the  same  drawing.  Per-  haps  she  would  work  on  another  draw-  ing,  of  another  subject,  in  another  light,  but  generally  she  was  tired  out  and,  after  writing  a  few  letters  at  the  secretary  in  her  downstairs  studio,  " b"would  come  up  to  her  room  to  lie  down.  I  wonder  what  in  social  history  hap-  pened  to  the  institution  of  lying  down.  All  ladies  lay  down,  in  my  childhood,  and  those  of  my  grandmother's  genera-  tion  lay  down  even  longer  than  my  mother  did.  My  mother  lay  down,  flat  on  her  back,  without  reading-to  rest  her  eyes-for  an  hour,  for  two  hours.  The  basalt  clock  downstairs  in  my  father's  study  was  abruptly  audible  to  me,  ticking.  Then  it  vanished  out  of  hearing  again.  The  light  changed,  faded,  became  more  leaden.  It  would  snow  again  by  night.  Across  the  up-  stairs  hall  I  could  hear  my  mother  sigh  as  she  turned  her  cheek  on  her  pillow.  Outdoors,  something-a  twig,  a  privet  berry-dropped  off  a  tree  onto  the  crust  of  the  snow  with  a  sharp  if  minute  report.  The  bed  I  lay  in,  made  of  wood  the  color  of  maple  sugar,  creaked  in  headboard  and  footboard  as  I  turned  over,  and  &quot;Kidnapped&quot;  and  my  Latin  grammar  slid  off  onto  the  floor.  Four  o'clock  came,  and  with  it  the  most  unlikely  possibility  that  somebody  would  come  to  call.  The  time  of  day  required  that  my  mother  be  up  and  dressed,  but  because  of  the  cold  and  because  of  the  snow  and  because  of  my  mother's  obvious  disinclination  to  society,  the  chances  were  that  we  would  be  left  alone  for  the  rest  of  the  waning  day,  untilat  last,  after  dark  had  com-  pletely  fallen,  slammings  and  crashings  and  shouts  would  announce  the  home-  coming  of  my  father,  bearing  such  tidings  as  that  the  temperature  at  the  railroad  station  had  reached  ten  below.  It  was,  I  suppose,  understandable  enough  that  Ias  a  young  girl  often  felt  myself  abused  because  my  parents  were  not  supplying  me  with  the  sort  of  busy,  animated,  sociable  household,  full  of  comings  and  goings  and  community  get-togethers,  that  I  read  about  in  the  women's  magazines  on  the  long  gold-  en-oak  table  at  the  public  library.  Re-  forms  one  is  helpless  to  accomplish  in  adolescence  often  develop,  however,  into  the  crusading  instinct  later  in  life,  when  one's  parents  are  relatively  at  one's  mercy.  By  the  time  I  was  middle-  aged  I  had,  alas,  only  my  mother  left  to  reform.  I  had  decided  in  recent  years  that  it  was  my  father's  recoil  from  society  that  had  been  the  cause  of  my  mother's  lonely  way  of  life,  and  I  determined  that  she  should  now,  at  least,  lead  a  more  normal  existence.  The  way  I  analyzed  it,  marrying  an  embittered  older  man  when  she  was  hardly  more  than  a  child  had  left  her     no  opportunity  to  develop  relation-  ships  with  those  of  her  own  age.  Those  of  her  own  age  by  this  time  meant  people  in  the  sixties  or  over.  I  felt  it  important  she  see  a  lot  of  them.  After  I  moved  from  New  York  to  [REDACTED],  I  persuaded  my  mother  to  give  up  the  house  outside  [REDACTED],  which  was  by  now  in  a  young-married  suburb,  and  move  to  an  apartment  near  where  I  lived.  Sure  enough.  In  the  ambience  of  all  those  warmhearted  and  company-lov-  ing  Southerners,  my  mother  opened  like  a  flower.  She  went  to  more  parties  in  a  month  than  she  had  gone  to  in  five  years,  back  in  New  England.  She  was  wildly  popular  at  parties.  I  can  see  her  now,  standing  in  the  middle  of  an  admiring,  chattering  group,  looking  wonderful  in  a  broad-brimmed  black  velvet  hat,  wearing  one  of  her  chokers  with  a  bow,  also  in  black  velvet,  cun-  ningly  designed  by  her  to  conceal  any  folds  in  her  neck-tall,  silver-haired,  beautifully  erect.  The  556e6974656420537461746573ns  were  ecstatic  over  her  looks  and  her  gentle  manner-'&quot;She's  the  best  thing  that's  happened  to  Charlottesville  in  ten  years,&quot;  one  lady  declared-and  my  mother  in  turn  sparkled  in  the  light  of  this  admiration.  She  talked,  she  laughed,  " b"she  responded.  In  that  big  hat,  cheeks  flushed,  she  looked  like  a  successful  d\xc3\xa9butante.  Although  she  could  by  this  time  al-  low  herself  to  enjoy  a  whirl,  I  can  see  that  none  of  it  really  changed  her  much.  I  am  still  not  sure  but  what  she  did,  after  all,  prefer  solitude.  'To  the  day  of  her  death  she  groaned  when  the  tele-  phone  or  the  doorbell  rang.  Once  when  my  aunt,  her  sister,  was  visiting  and  she  and  I  were  sitting  out  on  the  ter-  race  together,  my  mother  came  out  to  where  we  were  and  said  in  low,  sibilant  tones,  &quot;The  B  s  have  come,  and  all  they  want  to  do  is  talk.&quot;  Her  horror  of  society  came  out  most  strongly,  of  course,  when  she  was  paint-  ing,  which  she  continued  to  do  until  she  died.  One  of  the  remarkable  things  about  her  was  that  in  certain  branches  of  her  work  she  became  greater,  not  lesser,  with  age.  Her  charcoal  draw-  ings,  which  had  always  been  subtle,  evocative,  exquisitely  detailed,  in  her  seventies  suddenly  became  strong,     simpler,  the  contrast  of  black  and  white  more  intense.  In  her  early  eighties  my  mother  produced  some  of  her  best  por-  trait  drawings,  working,  as  ever,  with  arm  outstretched  at  full  length  without  a  tremor  for  four  hours,  although  by  that  time  she  could  not  hold  a  cup  and  saucer  without  rattling  it.  I  thought,  in  my  zeal  for  her  wel-  fare,  that  it  would  be  nice  for  her  also  to  take  part  in  some  community  doings  of  a  less  frivolous  nature,  and  to  that  end  urged  her  to  join  the  League  of  Women  Voters.  Obedient  as  a  little  girl,  good  as  gold,  she  joined.  One  day  in  winter  I  went  to  see  her  and  found  her  lying  down,  at  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  as  of  yore.  &quot;You  aren't  really  tired.  Now,  are  you?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;How  about  a  little  walk?&quot;  &quot;I've  been  painting  all  morning  and  I'm  exhausted,&quot;  she  said  firmly.  &quot;Eu-  gene  Speicher  used  to  go  to  bed  for  the  rest  of  the  day,  when  he'd  had  a  por-  trait  sitting.&quot;  &quot;Td  hoped  you  could  fit  in  the  League  luncheon  meeting  this  noon,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I've  just  come  from  there.&quot;  My  mother  regarded  me  with  large,  gray,  young  eyes.  &quot;I  went  to  a  couple  of  those  meetings,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;All  they  want  to  do  is  talk  about  politics.  They're  not  serious.&quot;  We  sat  together  then  for  a  while  be-  fore  she  got  up  to  make  tea,  in  one  of  those  long  silences  when  tiny  sounds  become  brilliantly  distinct-the  occa-  sional  clusn\xc3\xa9k  of  the  electric  clock  on  the  wall  of  the  kitchenette  in  that  small,  peaceful  apartment;  the  creak,  as  my  great-grandfather's  sea  chest  in  the  parlor  settled  a  bit;  the  sound  of  a  chunk  of  wet  snow  as  it  slid  off  the  roof  onto  more  wet  snow;  the  sound  of  a  car  passing  outside,  coming  to  us  muf-  fled,  as  though  from  far  away.  I  have  felt  a  sense  of  silence  like  that  in  one  other  place-in  a  big  church  to  which  I  did  not  even  belong.  It  was  during  Communion,  and  there  was  a  hush  that  was  merely  accentuated  by  the  sound  of  the  priest's  voice  mur-  muring  over  and  over,  &quot;The  Blood  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ  which  was  shed  for  thee  ...&quot;  The  communicants  filed  up  in  silence;  those  who  had  re-  turned  knelt  silent  in  their  pews.  The  vast  structure  was  as  still  as  death;  even  when  the  Gloria  was  sung  it  came  only  as  the  quietest  awakening-&quot;Lamb  of  God  ...that  takest  away  the  sins  of  the  world.  ...&quot;  Since  in  the  church  I  was  surround-  ed  by  hundreds  of  people,  I  must  sup-  pose  that  the  similarity  of  those  silences  has  more  to  do  with  me  than  with  my  mother,  for  her  reactions  to  going  to  church  were  anything  but  restful.  She  once  said  at  the  church  door  after  serv-  ice,  to  the  minister  of  the  Unitarian  church  to  which,  out  of  sentiment  for  my  father's  family  tradition,  she  used  to  go,  &quot;T'd  come  to  church  oftener,  but  it  always  makes  me  feel  completely  ex-  hausted.&quot;  I  saw  the  old  man  look  into  her  earnest,  forever-young  face  for  a  mo-  ment,  before  he  said  gently,  &quot;It's  sup-  posed  to  make  you  feel  just  the  oppo-  site.&quot;  It  dawns  on  me  that  the  silences  I  knew  with  my  mother  came  to  me  not  from  being  alone  at  all  but  from  being  close  to  her.  They  may  have  emanated  out  of  her  solitude,  but  for  her  being  alone  did  not  mean  silence.  She  was  listening,  calmly  rapt,  to  that  humming  dynamo,  her  secret  source."