 b" Mr.  Ricuaro  FOR  his  surprise  New  York  d\xc3\xa9but  at  Town  Hall  on  Wednesday  after-  noon,  Mr.  Richard  Whitweeks,  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  offereda  pro-  gram  of  works  by  Beethoven  and  Schubert.  Perhaps  the  most  evident  at-  tribute  of  his  performance  was  his  ready  command  of  massive  tone,  but,  mis-  managed  on  the  purely  interpretive  level,  this  proved  to  be  a  dubious  asset,  if  not  a  distinct  liability.  All  too  easily  and  frequently,  Mr.  Whitweeks,  a  heavyset  pianist  of  middle  age  and  sandy  hair,  miscalculated  the  amount  of  energy  and  will  power  the  piano  could  artistically  bear  without  causing  it  to  move  not  quite  imperceptibly  across  the  concert  stage  away  from  the  player,  not  to  mention  more  subtle  reckoning  as  to  the  composer's  wan  intention  to  bring  up  in  the  mind  of  the  listener  recollections  of  lullabies  rather  than  military  marches.  Thus,  in  Beethoven's  early  D-Major  Sonata  from  Opus  10,  his  performance  tended,  at  best,  to  inflate  the  ideological  content  both  unduly  and  superficially  and,  at  worst,  to  distort  the  climaxes  with  harsh  tone  and  to  disturb  the  fine  balance  of  Beethoven's  dynamic  sense  of  pit,  eous  doom.  Schubert's  unfinished  F-Minor  Sonata  of  1818  was  mutilated  in  much  the  same  fashion,  though  here  Mr.  Whitweeks  failure  to  discern  the  meaning  of  this  less  consequential  music  seemed  not  so  grave,  especially  in  view  of  the  circumstance  that  the  sonata  in  question  was  never  concluded  in  the  first  place.  Adroit  passagework,  overpassing,  and  aggressive  pedalling  did  not  save  Schu,  bert's  harmonic  flights  from  a  fate  the  composer  could  never  have  dreamed  of.  Mr.  Whitweeks  returned  to  Lon-  don,  [REDACTED],  by  helicopter  and  jet  shortly  after  the  performance.  Mr.  HErsErT  G.  RosInson  HERBERT  G.  Rosinson's  new,  re-  gional  historic  opera,  &quot;O  Lacka-  wanna!  ,&quot;  had  its  long  awaited  premiere  on  Monday  evening  at  the  Metropolitan  Opera  House,  and  from  the  moment  the  curtain  was  raised  aloft  it  was  clear  to  everyone  that  Robinson  had  many  other  strings  to  his  bow  than  the  some-     what  acrobatical  role  of  conductor  of  the  works  of  other  composers  that  has  brought  him  international  renown  and  that  has  enabled  television  viewers  on  all  sides  of  the  Atlantic  and  Pacific  to  see  him  leading  his  World  Symphony  Orchestra  in  his  &quot;homes&quot;  in  New  York,  San  Francisco,  4a6170616e,  49726171,  Antibes,  4974616c79,  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  Manchester.  As  everyone  knows,  the  question  as  to  whether  Robinson's  new  work  was  to  celebrate  the  river  or  the  railroad  has  been  the  best-kept  secret  since  the  first  atomic  bomb,  the  entire  cast  having  be  n  held  incommunicado  in  comfort-  able,  though  necessarily  overcrowded,  quarters  at  the  HotelAstor  ever  since  the  dancers  and  whistlers  were  as-  sembled  for  the  initial  rehearsal.  As  everyone  should  know,  the  present  writer  was  alone  in  hazarding  the  guess  that  the  employment  of  the  afore-  mentioned  whistlers  plainly  indicated  that  Robinson  was  going  to  celebrate  the  railroad,  not  the  river,  and  would  use  the  whistlers  to  delineate  tooting  and  chuffing  sounds,  while  other,  mis-  taken  penmen  and  penwomen  main-  tained,  to  their  subsequent  chagrin,  that  thewhistlers  would  be  used  to  create  the  il-  lusion  that  the  audience  was  listening  to  the  gur-  gling  and  burbling  noises  of  the  sources  of  the  wa-  terway.  In  directing  his  own  production  of  &quot;O  Lack-  awanna!,&quot;  Robinson  demonstrated  that  he  was  able  to  courageously  rewrite  his  own  opera  as  freely  as  he  has  dealt  in  the  past  with  the  works  of  other  com-  posers,  for  in  rehearsal  he  evidently  discovered  that  the  original  title,  &quot;Ah,  Lackawannal!,&quot;  which  suggested  a  cer-  tain  realistic  pathos,  nevertheless  did  not  lend  itself  to  puckered-lip  whistling,  and  after  two  days  of  intense  con-  sideration,  during  which  the  employ-  ment  of  finger-whistlers  was  weighed  and  rejected,  he  ruthlessly  changed  the  title  to  &quot;O  Lackawanna!&quot;  After  the  curtain's  rise,  it  was  only  a  matter  of  minutes  before,  in  the  fifth  repeti-  tion  of  the  initial  theme  of  the  &quot;O;&quot;  the  whistlers,  with  incomparable  dex-  terity  and  only  an  occasional  slip  of  the  lip,  commenced  to  render-at  first  softly,  but  then  with  sibilant  crescen-  do-the  tooting  and  chuffing  sounds  " b" of  the  Lackawanna  locomotives  of  a  bygone  day.  In  choosing  as  his  theme  for  his  new  opera  the  tentative  beginnings  of  the  Lackawanna  Railroad-its  rise  as  an  important,  significant,  and  much  loved  means  of  transportation,  the  preference  for  it  that  the  publicexhibited  over  canals  and  horse-drawn  vehicles,  and  its  final,  tragic  falling  off  when  in-  terstate  motor  trucking  became  the  vogue-Robinson  demonstrates  a  ro-  mantic  and  tender  feelingfor  the  past  and  for  the  initiative  of  an  older  genera-  tion  which  few  would  have  suspected  in  view  of  his  robust  revisions  of  Beetho-  ven.  The  entire  absence  of  words  in  this  modern  opera  offers  the  same  sort  of  intense  gratification  that  the  lack  of  C  and  meaning  ||  systematic  coloration  lends  to  abstract  paintings.  Miss  Elizabeth  Holt,  representing  with  undeniable  security  the  &quot;part'&quot;  of  the  engine's  warning  signal,  was,  it  must  be  admitted,  somewhat  white  in  the  upper  registers,  but  in  her  spinto  passages,  as  in  the  near  collision  with  the  quaintold  merchant's  vegetable  wagon  at  Batworth  Corners,  circa  1900,  her  attack  was  ausdrucksvoll  but  ma  non  troppo.  The  prevailing  opacity  of  her  lower  tessitura  cried  out  for  com-  parison  with  the  greats  of  history,  but  unfortunately  the  critical  material  deal-  ing  with  the  accomplished  whistlers  of  the  past  seems  to  be  meagre.  Hobart  Perkins  rendered  the  meaningful  bass  numbers  wut  viel  Ausdruck,  and  Evelyn  Price,  in  his  or  her  delineation  of  the  first  faint  symptoms  of  decline  in  the  freight  rates  of  the  railroad,  might  ||  have  been  a  genuine  triumph  of  the|j  popular  sort  had  not  Robinson,  with  the  restraint  of  true  genius,  refrained  from  allowing  the  temptations  Sprechgesang  to  overcome-even  in  the  scene  depicting  by  means  of  both  danc-  ing  and  whistling  a  meeting  of  the  Interstate  Commerce  Commission-his  firm  resolve  to  prevent  any  chance  of  [:  understanding  from  interfering  with  |;  the  pure  enjoyment  of  the  unknown,  to  which  the  audience  had  by  that  time  {}{'  become  accustomed.  Miss  HErEN  GATE  REGRETTAELE  accident,  or  mis-  judgment,  was  a  feature  of  Tuesday's  &quot;Solo  for  Seven  Drums,&quot;  at  the  Brooklyn  Academy  of  Music,  in  which  Miss  Helen  Gate,  the  attractive  newcomer  from  [REDACTED],  who  has  recent-  ly  forsaken  the  harp  for  the  more  strident  instruments,  finding  it  neces-  sary  to  overlap  her  two  drumsticks  in  order  to  reproduce  one  of  those  rapid  changes  of  mind  that  Tompkins  is " b"noted  for  in  his  compositions,  struck  with  a  resounding  blow  of  her  right  drumstick  the  knuckle  of  the  forefinger  of  her  left  hand,  instead  of  the  hide  of  the  fourth  drum,  and  in  so  doing  lost  control  of  the  left  drumstick,  which  flew  upward  in  an  arc.  Only  her  pretty  and  intuitive  legwork  enabled  her  to  spring  backward,  wringing  her  injured  hand,  and  retrieve  the  flying  stick  with  her  right  hand,  thus  return-  ing  to  her  seven  drums  with  an  im-  promptu  interpolation  in  which  both  sticks  were  employed  by  her  right  hand  while  her  left  had  an  opportunity  to  recover  from  its  rude  shock.  The  ap-  plause  was  spontaneous,  but  over  it  came  the  sound  of  Miss  Gate's  drums,  and  the  present  writer  is  able  to  testify  that  not  a  beat  was  missed  in  the  Tomp-  kins  fugue  she  was  engaged  in  render-  ing.  More  power  to  Miss  Gate!  says  the  present  writer. "