 b"ABOUT  forty-five  yearsago,  when  A  vaudeville  was  in  its  heyday  and  I  clung  like  a  steeplejack  to  the  second  balcony  of  the  Keith-Albee  in  Providence  worshipping  such  demi-  gods  as  Grace  LaRue,  Tom  Patricola,  Julian  Eltinge,  and  Williams  &amp;  Wol-  fus,  there  was  a  celebrated  contortionist  whose  act  never  failed  to  captivate  the  audience.  Billed  as  &quot;Desiretta,  the  Man  Who  Wrestles  with  Himself,&quot;  he  would  appear  in  parti-colored  tights  with  con-  trasting  rosettes,  limber  up  with  a  few  stately  gyrations  to  the  strains  of  ''The  Hesitation  Waltz,&quot;  and  then,  grunting  and  panting  fiercely,  so  manipulate  his  torso  as  to  create  the  illusion  of  two  opponents  locked  in  combat.  Several  decades  later,  a  colleague  of  mine,  a  former  monologist  and  juggler  who  had  known  Desiretta  professionally,  told  me  an  anecdote  about  him  that  has  remained  verdant  in  my  memory.  En  route  between  two  engagements  in  the  Middle  West,  Desiretta  chanced  to  be  seated  in  a  railroad  car  containing  a  group  of  mildly  addled  folk  from  a  local  institution  bound  for  a  picnic.  He  was  dozing  over  the  latest  issue  of  Zits  Theatrical  W  eekly,  quite  unaware  that  his  fellow-passengers  were  out  of  the  ordinary,  when  their  guardian  entered  and  began  counting  the  flock  to  make  sure  none  of  the  members  had  strayed  off.  &quot;'T  wenty-two,  twenty-four,  twen-     ty-five,&quot;  he  mumbled,  spanning  the  passengers  with  his  hands.  He  paused  doubtfully  as  he  came  abreast  of  Desi-  retta.  &quot;Pardon  me,  friend,&quot;  he  apolo-  gized,  &quot;but  who  are  you?&quot;  'The  acrobatblinked  up  at  him.  &quot;Me?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  Desiretta,  the  Man  Who  Wrestles  with  Himself.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,  of  course,&quot;  the  other  said  quickly.  '''T'wenty-six,  and  the  two  behind  you  make  twenty-eight.  ...&quot;  As  one  who  has  been  grappling  with  himself  in  an  effort  to  comprehend  a  wholly  new  trend  in  merchandising,  I  have  lately  felt  a  certain  kinship  with  Desiretta,  not  unmixed  with  apprehen-  sion  that  everybody  involved  in  the  sales  process-seller  and  buyer  alike-  may  be  a  trifle  balmy.  My  doubts  originated  early  in  December,  soon  after  Neiman-Marcus,  the  [REDACTED]  out-  fitters,  announced  an  especially  posh  line  ofapparel  in  this  publication.  The  clothes  illustrated  in  their  advertise-  ment,  a  gentleman's  kimono  and  a  hostess  gown,  were  tailored  from  a  fibre  the  text  identified  as  &quot;Shah-  toosh-most  precious  fibre  in  the  world  from  the  throat  hairs  of  the  wild,  elu-  sive  Himalayan  ibex.&quot;  Just  how  wild  and  elusive  ibexes  are  and  how  reluc-  tant  to  yield  up  their  throat  hairs  be-  came  apparent  when  one  read  the  prices  of  the  togs-$1,500  and  $1,795,  re-  spectively.  At  thatparticular  point,  gitlnBeeo  FEBRVARY  20,  1965  though,  I  urgently  needed  a  few  stock-  ing  presents  to  embellish  the  cornucopia  I  was  preparing  for  Christmas,  so,  snapping  my  fingers  at  the  expense,  I  ordered  half  a  dozen  gowns  and  kimo-  nos.  'The  response  they  evoked  was  hardly  what  I  anticipated.  Without  ex-  ception,  the  recipients  bristled,  whether  as  a  reflex  action  to  the  throat  hairs  or  because  they  assumed  I  was  trying  to  overawe  them  with  my  munificence.  The  gesture  cost  me  a  cool  ten  thou,  but  I  didn't  begrudge  it.  It  taught  me  to  distinguish  my  real  friends  from  the  phonies.  In  dangling  before  me  a  product  so  recherch\xc3\xa9  and  costly  that  ownership  would  enhance  my  status,  Neiman-  Marcus  was,  of  course,  employing  an  altogether  traditional  sales  technique-  one  familiar  to  me  from  infancy.  Little  more  than  a  week  later,  however,  an-  other  department  store,  Ohrbach's,  con-  founded  me  by  adopting  a  diametrically  opposite  approach.  Under  a  photograph  of  two  hollow-eyed  starvelings  in  the  New  York  Posfs  &quot;The  World  of  Women,&quot;  there  appeared  this  singular  caption:  ''Top  of  the  list  among  the  sweaters  girls  want  most  this  year:  At  left,  the  spare  little  shell  everyone's  mad  about  for  its  fashionable  new  'poor'  look  and  its  comfort  under  jack-  ets.  An  Italian  import  in  turquoise  mo-  hair  bordered  with  matching  color  beads,  it  is  $17.&quot;  'The  revelation  that  henceforth  it  was  smart  to  be  stony,  that  indigence  was  synonymous  with  elegance,  fair  took  my  breath  away.  Here  was  a  bouleversement  indeed,  an  up-to-the-minute  transposition  of  Laz-  arus  and  Dives.  By  pressing  my  ear  to  the  women's  page,  I  could  almost  de-  tect  the  sound  of  an  angelic  choir.  How  the  poverty  ploy  will  affect  the  equilibrium  between  retailer  and  con-  sumer  as  it  gains  momentum  is  any-  body's  guess.  Mine-my  guess,  that  is,  not  my  equilibrium,  which  is  a  bit  cha-  otic  from  wrestling-is  that  it  may  well  wreak  havoc.  I  embody  it  in  a  handy,  easily  digestible  dramatic  capsule,  to  be  taken  with  a  grain  of  salt:  ScENE:  The  selon  of  Le  Ginz  &amp;  Popkin,  a  firm  of  exclusive  couturiers  in  [REDACTED].  No  effort  has  been  spared  to  avoid  ostentation  in  the  deco-  rative  scheme.  The  floor  is  uncarpeted,  the  furniture  consists  of  half  a  dozen  orange  crates  and  a  seedy  Morris  chair,  and  a  naked  electric  bulb  swung  from  the  ceiling  provides  the  only  illumina-  tion.  As  the  curtain  rises,  Cosme  Le  Ginz,  a  sallow  tomboy  with  a  severe  bang  bisecting  his  forehead,  in  an  Ed-  wardian  sack  suit  and  effulgent  waist-  " b"coat,  superiniends  a  work-  man  engaged  in  chiselling  a  small  area  from  the  wall  to  expose  the  lath.  \xc2\xa3  Ginz  (backing  off  to  examine  the  effect):  There,  that's  fine-hold  it!  It  just  cried  out  for  that  one  little  accent.  Workman:  Whatever  you  say,  Mac.  You  got  a  broom,  so  I  can  sweep  up  the  plaster?  Lz  Ginz:  No,  no,  leave  it,  by  all  means.  It's  es-  sential  to  the  composition.  Workman  (his  cree-  tive  instinct  kindled):  Y  ou  know  what  I'd  like  to  see,  maybe?  A  nice  rathole  on  the  baseboard  there,  cov-  ered  with  a  piece  of  tin.  Lz  Ginz:  Well,  per-  haps  when  we  launch  our  spring  collection.  There's  no  room  in  the  budget  right  now  for  fripperies.  Workman:  You're  the  doctor.  (He  shoulders  tools,  exits  as  Nate  Popkin,  the  other  partner  and  a  perpetual  dyspeptic,enters.)  Porin:  Look,  Cosmo,  what  have  you  got  against  Mrs.  Virgil  Floodgates?  Lz  Gimz:  Now,  don't  start  needling  me  about  that  woman,  Popkin-  Porin:  Here's  a  dame  socially  prominent,  which  her  husband  has  a  finger  in  every  financial  pie-a  person  worth  conservatively  two  hundred  million  bucks-that's  begging  us  on  her  bended  knees  to  see  the  line,  and  you  won't  even  let  her  in  the  store.  Sweetheart-baby-what  sense  does  it  make?  Lx  Ginz:  Nate,  listen  to  me.  When  you  and  I  founded  this  concern,  we  had  nothing  but  a  dream,  a  concept  that  money  is  the  enemy  of  chic.  We've  worked  and  we've  slaved,  and  today  we've  got  possibly  the  smartest,  most  insolvent  clientele  in  New  York.  Do  you  want  to  destroy  an  accomplishment  like  that  for  the  sake  of  a  few  lousy  dollars?  Porpkim  (humbly):  You're  right,  kid-I'm  so  oriented  pelfwise  that  I  keep  losing  sight  of  our  initial  objective.  Only  I  don't  think  it's  fair  to  keep  the  both  of  them  in  suspense.  Lx  Ginz:  Who?  Porin:  She  and  her  daughter-  they've  been  cooling  their  heels  in  the  foyer  over  three  days  now.  Couldn't  you  just  spare  five  minutes  to  settle  their  hash  in  a  tactful  fashion?  Lz  Ginz:  Well,  O.K.,  but  sneak    thein  in  the  back  way.  If  word  got  around  we  were  catering  to  people  like  that,  it'd  raise  hell  with  our  corporate  image.  (Popkin  exits,  leaving  Le  Ginz  alone  onstage  without  a  telephone  or  soliloqguy-an  oversight  he  surmounts  by  extracting  a  bouquet  of  paper  flowers  from  his  pocket  and  arranging  it.  Mrs.  Virgil  Floodgates  and  her  daughter,  Botticella,  enter.  They  wear  tailleurs  the  fabric  of  which  is  Ahchoo,  woven  from  the  buckram  found  in  the  spines  of  Gutenberg  Bibles.)  Oh,  Mummy,  what  a  heavenly  showroom!  It  has  that  divine  grubby  quality  Italian  directors  always  capture  in  their  films.  Mrs.  FroopcaTEs:  Yes,  so  uncom-  promising  and  free  of  rococo,  like  its  guiding  spirit,  who  I  descery  standing  there.  Mr.  Le  Ginz,  I'm  Drusilla  Floodgates.  Botticella  here  is  short-  ly  making  her  plunge  into  the  social  swim.  Lz  Ginz:  And  you  crave  a  gown  befitting  the  occasion,  of  course.  May  I  ask  you  an  impertinent  question?  Mrs.  FroopcatEs:  A  wizard  of  the  shears  don't  have  to  apologize  to  us  mere  groundlings.  Lr  Gimnz:  You  are  too  kind.  Mrs.  Floodgates,  what  makes  you  think  you're  poor  enough  to  afford  my  clothes?  Mrs.  FroopcatEs:  Well,  I  cer-  tainly  have  no  intention  of  paying  for  them,  if  that's  what  youmean.  My  husband  and  I  sometimes  let  ten  years  elapse  before  settling  our  bills.  Lz  Gimz:  But  you  imply  that  you  do,  eventually.  Mrs.  FroopcatEs:  Only  when  we've  exhausted  every  legal  loophole,  every  ounce  of  pettifoggery  and  deceit.  No,  Mr.  Le  Ginz,  you  can  rest  easy  on  that  score.  Once  I  buy  anything  from  you,  you'll  whistle  for  your  money.  Lx  Ginz  (surveying  Botticella  criti-  cally)  :  Well,  even  if  I  did  make  an  ex-  ception,  it's  a  major  technical  problem.  The  girl's  a  mess-shining  hair,  erect  posture,  not  a  single  tic.  She'd  have  to  be  transformed  completely  to  harmo-  nize  with  one  of  my  creations.  Borriceuca:  Oh,  please,  sir,  if  you'd  only  allow  me  to  try  on  some-  thing-  Mrs.  FroopcatTEs:  Just  so  she  could  brag  to  her  friends.  They  abso-  lutely  venerate  you,  adore  you-  LE  Ginz:  We-e-ll,  it  violates  our  entire  policy,  but  Pll  waive  the  rules  this  once.  Slip  off  your  dress.  (As  Botticella  hastens  to  comply,  he  opens  a  closet  door  revealing  a  garment  rack,  rummages  through  a  number  of  frocks,  and  selects  one.)  Here,  this  texture  should  offset  your  coloring.  ...  Hold  still  while  I  zip  you  up.  ...  There.  BorricEucta:  It's  enchanting-too  precious  for  words.  Look  at  the  way  it  droops,  Mummy.  Ls  Ginz:  That's  the  new  slovenly  line-very  high  style.  And  so  is  the  " b"material.  It's  a  sleazy  jersey  like  boucl\xc3\xa9,  made  out  of  old  peat  bags.  Mrs.  FroopcaTEs:  Yes,  I  see  the  name  in  the  selvage-&quot;Genuine  [REDACTED]  Moss.&quot;  But  frankly,  Mr.  Le  Ginz,  do  you  think  it's-well,  lack-  lustre  enough  for  a  d\xc3\xa9but?  LE  Ginz:  Oh,  this  isn't  the  finished  model  by  a  long  shot.  We'd  have  to  rip  the  hems,  add  a  smudge  or  two  of  chicken  fat-really  give  the  dress  some  character.  Mrs.  FroopcoartEs:  What  do  you  think,  darling?  BoTrIcELLA:  It's  yummy.  I  abso-  lutely  dote  on  it.  Mrs.  FroopcatEs:  Grand.  Then  we're  all  in  agreement-  Lr  Ginz  (abruptly):  On  the  con-  trary,  Madam,  we  couldn't  differ  more.  I'm  sorry,  but  now  that  Isee  her  in  it,  your  daughter's  not  becoming  to  that  dress.  I'm  afraid  you'll  have  to  try  somewhere  else.  Mrs.  FroopoatTEs:  Wh-why,  how  dare  you!  Are  you  suggesting  that  my  Botticella  is  incapable  of  looking  like  a  scarecrow?  LE  Ginz:  You  can't  make  a  sow's  ear  out  of  a  silk  purse,  Mrs.  Floodgates.  She  can't  be  truly  chic  as  long  as  she's  got  so  much  loot,  and  she  can't  conceal  it.  There's  nothing  as  phony  as  a  false  waif.  Mrs.  FuroopoaTEs:  (wringing  her  hands):  But  what  ever  are  we  to  do?  The  social  event  of  the  year-the  pic-  ture  magazines  promised  to  feature  Botticella  in  your  gown--  LE  Ginz:  I  wish  I  could  lower  our  standards  tooblige  you,  but  it's  out  of  the  question.  Excuse  me.  (He  starts  to  exit,  but  stops  as  Virgil  Floodgates,  an  archetypal  plutocrat,  plummets  in,  his  wattles  quivering  uncontrollably.)  FroopcaTtEs:  Drusilla!  Where  are  you?  Mrs.  FroopoatEs  (aegitato):  What  is  it,  Virgil?  What's  wrong?  FroopcaTtEs:  Disaster-stark,  un-  relieved  calamity!  You  know  our  thirty-six-room  mansion  on  Hobe  Sound  with  eleven  baths,  extensive  grounds,  and  marina  in  which  our  private  yacht,  a  veritable  floating  palace  panelled  in  mahogany  and  rosewood,  is  moored?  'The  whole  shooting  match  has  been  swept  away  by  a  hurricane.  But  wait-worse  is  yet  to  follow.  Whilst  Spaulding,  our  butler,  was  down  at  the  cobbler's  this  morning,  some  member  of  the  light-fingered  gentry  rifled  our  Park  Avenue  premises,  copping  all  your  jewels  and  finery,  a  collection  of  Easter  eggs  designed  by  Faberg\xc3\xa9  for  the  late  Czar  of  [REDACTED],  and  bibelots  of  value  inestimable.  Mrs.  FroopcatEs:  Oh,  Virgil,  the  accumulations  of  a  lifetime  erased  as  if  by  a  gigantic  sponge.  FroopcaTEs:  Yes,  and  unless  my  intuition  deceives  me,  this  telegram  I  stuffed  into  my  pocket  without  open-  ing  heralds  a  fresh  catastrophe.  (He  opens  it,  reels.)  Good  grief!  Mrs.  FroopcoarTEs:  More  bad  news,  dear?  F.oopcaTEs:  The  worst.  Passaic  Playthings,  Inc.,  in  whose  stock  I  in-  vested  every  penny  of  our  fortune  on  a  tip  that  Diabolos  were  returning  to  favor,  has  gone  bankrupt.  (Heavily)  This  is  the  coup  de  grice,  folks.  I  foresee  myself,  blue  with  cold,  hawk-  ing  hot  chestnuts  outside  the  Public  Library.  (joyfully):  Daddy  darling,  you've  just  made  me  the  happiest  girl  in  the  world!  FroopcatEs:  Eh?  What's  that?  What  did  you  say?  Now  I  can  have  the  dress,  can't  I,  Mummy?  Can't  I,  Mr.  Le  Ginz?  Lr  GNnz:  Of  course,  my  dear.  Under  the  circumstances,  I  can't  think  of  anyone  who'd  lend  it  more  distinc-  tion.  Take  it,  and  after  it's  rained  on,  bring  it  back  so  we  can  make  a  few  adjustments.  Mrs.  F.ooncartEs:  My  stars,  despite  all  our  misfortunes,  there  certainly  is  a  silver  lining.  I'll  never  be  able  to  repay  you,  Mr.  Le  Ginz.  LE  Ginz:  I  sincerely  hope  so.  (4s  Mrs.  Flood  gates  and  Botticella  exit  with  Floodgates,  explaining  what  has  hap-  pened,  Le  Ginz  rubs  his  hands  and  bustles  off  to  report  the  sale  to  Popkin.)  CURTAIN  "