 b"ON  the  fourth  day-Thursday-  they  retraced  their  steps.  It  was,  he  had  convinced  her,  the  best  solution.  He  did  not  really  have  to  con-  vince  her,  for  they  had  agreed  quietly  and  quickly  about  everything  they  had  undertaken  in  those  four  days.  Yet  he  was  aware  that  it  was  he  who  had  proposed  what  they  would  do  now  and  she  who  had  agreed  to  it.  Would  his  grief  betray  them  in  the  future,  he  wondered.  No  matter,  since  they  had  no  choice  to  begin  with.  To  retrieve  what  was  left  and  to  relinquish  it-  that  was  not  choice  but  necessity.  The  mausoleum,  a  block  of  gran-  ite  surrounded  by  a  large  cemetery,  was  half  an  hour's  drive  from  the  city.  The  cemetery  was  filled  with  ever-  greens  that,  even  in  midwinter,  lent  it  the  aura  of  a  formal  garden.  He  parked  the  car  in  front  of  the  mausoleum  and,  leaving  her  inside,  climbed  out,  mounted  a  flight  of  stone  steps,  and  went  into  the  building  through  a  pair  of  massive-looking  portals,  which,  because  they  were  fake  bronze,  opened  with  deceptive  ease.  Inside,  his  foot-  steps  echoed  on  a  polished  marble  floor  with  the  same  hammering  precision  he  had  heard  two  days  before,  when  he  had  been  led  down  a  succession  of  long,  drafty  corridors  to  the  cre-  matory  at  the  rear  of  the  building.  This  time,  his  stay  was  brief.  He  pre-  sented  himself  at  an  office,  where  the  sound  of  his  approach  died  with  stun-  ning  abruptness  on  wall-to-wall  carpet-  ing.  He  identified  himself  to  a  clerk  wearing  a  black  suit,  signed  a  receipt,  and  was  handed  a  small,  square  box  wrapped  in  brown  paper.  The  box  was  feather  light.  A  white  label  on  the  cover  bore  the  name  of  his  son.  When  he  left  the  office,  the  sound  of  his  foot-  steps  followed  him  again  to  the  fake  bronze  doors.  It  was  raining  outside,  as  it  had  been  all  day,  but  now  the  rain  was  mixed  with  sleet  and  snow.  The  cemetery  was  deserted  and-  because  of  this,  perhaps-the  Muzak  loudspeaker  affixed  to  the  wall  of  the  building  behind  a  screen  of  evergreens  was  mercifully  silent.  He  descended  the  stone  steps,  holding  the  box  carefully  between  his  hands,  and  saw  for  the  first  time  that  the  cemetery  was  sprin-  kled  with  bouquets  withering  beneath  the  leaden  February  sky.  Then,  as  if  seeking  confirmation  for  what  was  being  done,  his  eyes  sought  her  face  be-  hind  the  rain-streaked  window  of  the  car.  Could  he  bear  to  watch  her  in  the  coming  years-she  who  loved  plants  and  flowers-tending  them  beside  a  tiny  grave?  No,  nor  would  he  and  she  come  bearing  floral  tributes  to  one  of  the  tenement  cemeteries  that  sat  beside  expressways  on  the  outskirts  of  the  city,  or  to  such  a  place  as  this,  where,  on  sunny  days,  recorded  hymns  came  pip-  ing  through  the  crackle  of  static.  They  had  made  the  right  decision,  and  they  had  agreed  upon  it.  Now  it  simply  re-  mained  to  carry  it  out.  All  at  once,  he  was  filled  with  vast  relief  that,  for  the  first  time  in  four  days,  they  were-all  three  of  them-alone  again,  unsepa-  rated  by  the  legal  barriers  of  state  and  county,  and  by  the  presence  of  clergy,  prom  may  FEBRUARY  13,  1965  family,  and  friends.  When  he  reached  the  car,  he  opened  the  door  and  placed  the  box  on  the  rear  seat  beside  a  rose  she  had  taken  from  one  of  the  funeral  bouquets.  Then  he  got  in  be-  hind  the  wheel.  Except  for  memory,  there  must  be  no  shrine,  he  told  him-  self.  No  shrine.  For  the  next  hour,  they  drove  swiftly  north  and  cast,  retracing  their  route  of  fourdays  before.  During  the  first  partof  the  trip,  the  highway  followed  a  small  river  that  wandered  between  giant  willow  trees.  Then  they  passed  a  series  of  reservoirs  in  the  northern  part  ofthe  county,  linked  together  by  streams  whose  flow  was  controlled  by  dams.  The  river  and  the  streams  flowed  toward  them,  in  the  direction  of  the  city  and  the  sea,  and  as  they  sped  along-  always  against  the  current  and  back-  ward  in  time-the  idea  kept  recurring  to  him  that  they  were  climbing  toward  headwaters,  where  the  purest  spring-  fed  trickles  crept  out  of  the  hills.  Now,  as  the  roads  diminished  in  proportion  to  the  narrowing  of  the  streams,  he  be-  came  more  aware  than  ever  of  going  back,  of  returning  to  the  very  source  of  things.  The  reverie  was  broken  when,  approaching  the  state  line,  he  slowed  at  a  fork  in  the  road,  thinking  to  take  an  alternate  route  that  would  spare  them  the  sight  of  the  town  through  whose  dark,  uncharted  streets  they  had  careered  wildly,  four  nights  before,  in  a  vain  effortto  find  a  doctor  to  save  their  dying  child.  But  even  as  he  pressed  his  foot  against  the  brake,  she  spoke  for  almost  the  first  time  since  they  had  left  the  city.  &quot;Don't  turn,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Let's  go  the  way  we  always  did.&quot;  Twenty  minutes  later,  they  reached  the  cottage  where  they  had  always  spent  their  weekends.  The  cottage  sat  like  a  balcony  in  the  forest,  on  a  high,  wooded  ridge  adjacent  to  the  Housa-  tonic  [REDACTED],  where-  tiny,  white,  and  clap,  boarded-it  was  dwarfed  by  tall  trees  and  sur-  rounded  by  stone  walls.  Thus  enclosed,  it  tended  to  seem  gloomyand  addi-  tionally  submerged  on  such  gray  winter  days  as  this,  when  sodden  snow-  flakes  came  slanting  past  the  trunks  of  trees.  Only  her  ivy  plants,  carefully  transplanted  and  nur-  tured  over  the  years,  and  clinging  forlorn  and  faintly  green  to  the  side  " b" of  the  cottage,  held  a  trace  of  life.  The  rest  was  gray-gray  stone,  gray  sod,  gray  tree  trunks-all  becoming  grayer  now  as  the  snow  began  to  stick.  'They  did  not  enter  the  house,  but  pulled  on  their  galoshes  in  the  car.  In  the  spring,  he  would  come  back  alone  to  put  away  the  toys.  Now  he  took  the  box  from  the  back  seat,  unwrapped  the  paper  covering,  and  drew  out  a  small  canister;  then,  handing  her  the  rose,  he  got  out,  came  around  to  her  side,  and  opened  the  door.  The  hand  she  gave  him  was  as  light  as  the  canister,  and,  taking  it,  he  led  her  across  the  spongy  yard  and  along  a  path  through  the  forest  to  the  brook.  The  brook  was  a  torrent.  Fed  by  old  snow  melting  at  the  top  of  the  hill,  it  tumbled  between  boulders  covered  with  gray  lichen  and  raced  down  shale-  lined  runways,  coating  thickets  with  shining  ice  and  carving  a  gully  that  would,  with  time,  become  a  ravine.  He  had  already  picked  the  spot  in  his  mind.  Now,  kneeling  on  a  flat  rock  where  the  brook  spilled  into  a  deep  pool,  he  opened  the  canister  and  poured  its  meagre  contents  into  the  swift  current.  For  a  moment,  there  was  a  small,  white  stain  in  the  dark  water  of  the  pool-a  stain  that,  even  as  it  spread,  dis-  solved  and  disappeared.  'The  rose  she  tossed  upon  the  water  was  borne  lightly  along,  cresting  with  absurd  buoyance  as  it  tumbled  over  the  rocks.  Lost  from  sight,  it  reappeared;  an  instant  later,  it  was  gone.  He  looked  up  at  her,  saw  the  dep-  rivation  in  her  face,  and  was  filled  with  doubt.  But  even  as  he  stood  and  took  her  hand  again,  his  spirit  fled  from  the  spot  and  followed  the  brook  as  it  flowed  away.  Below  the  hill,  in  the  meadow  where  he  sometimes  fished  for  trout,  he  traced  it  past  its  conjunction  with  other  rivulets  and  other  brooks.  He  followed  it  through  the  culvert  be-  neath  the  highway,  past  the  millhouse  near  the  railroad  tracks,  and  then  down,  down,  always  down,  through  fields  and  forests  to  the  river.  At  first,  the  river  was  a  series  of  lakes  created  by  flood-control  dams;  then  it  spilled  through  the  giant  portals  of  a  hydro-  electric  plant  and  flowed  past  summer  cottages  and  factories  into  the  flatlands  near  the  coast,  where  white  motorboats  bobbed  at  marinas.  There  the  river  emptied  into  the  sound,  and  the  sound  into  the  sea,  and,  drawing  a  decp  breath,  he  returned  in  one  jump  to  the  headwaters  where  they  stood.  The  con-  tinuity  of  his  journey  had  calmed  him.  Did  she  not  seem  calmer,  too?  Help-  ing  her  up  the  bank,  he  led  her  back  to  the  car,  which  wore  a  coat  of  snow.  The  drive  back  to  the  city  seemed  swifter,  as  if  they  were  being  helped  along  by  favorable  currents.  The  nar-  row  country  roads  widened  into  arteries  bearing  median  markings,  and  then  in-  to  multi-laned  highways,  until  they  found  themselves  carried  along  in  a  stream  of  traffic  that  flowed  beside  the  [REDACTED].  That  night,  lying  awake,  he  began  to  follow  the  brook  once  more  from  the  top  of  the  hill.  Again  and  again  he  traced  its  descent  through  the  countryside.  Once,  he  had  seen  a  topographic  map  of  [REDACTED],  and  now  his  mind  carried  him  through  countless  flesh  folds  of  the  land.  Trick  les  became  brooks,  brooks  became  streams,  streams  widened  into  rivers.  The  rivers  flowed  into  the  sea.  His  brain  was  awash  with  currents  that  coursed  through  the  wrinkled  contours  of  vast  watersheds.  Whole  continents  drained  through  his  head.  Everything  emptied  into  the  sea.  'The  sea  was  empty.  He  began  again.  WCO  nights  later,  they  crossed  the  ocean  on  the  nine  o'clock  Alitalia  flight  to  Rome.  When  she  seemed  to  have  fallen  asleep,  he  sat  staring  out  a  window  into  the  dark,  and  thought  of  the  profound  sea  pulsing  forty  thousand  feet  below  them.  Day  broke  as  they  approached  the  coast  of  [REDACTED],  but  the  land  was  covered  with  a  thick  layer  of  clouds.  In  his  mind,  however,  he  pursued  the  course  of  the  Loire,  along  which  he  had  driven  years  before.  Later,  he  imagined  they  were  flying  above  the  confluence  of  the  Sadne  and  Rhone.  The  cloud  cover  diminished  over  [REDACTED].  In  valleys  between  the  Alps,  the  rivers  and  streams  were  frozen  and  white.  He  followed  them  eagerly,  craning  his  neck  and  looking  back  beyond  the  wing,  hating  to  lose  them  even  as  they  disappeared  behind  the  towering  ranges.  4974616c79  was  green  and  brown.  In  the  Lombard  plain,  the  ancient  tributaries  of  the  Po  flowed  through  the  coils  of  their  discarded  meanders.  The  Mediterranean  gently  lapped  the  Tuscan  coast.  When  they  landed  in  Rome,  they  went  to  a  hotel  and  slept.  When  they  awoke,  they  walked.  They  walked  along  the  Tiber,  which  was  a  green-gray  color  and  very  high.  (He  supposed,  with  an  attendant  jour-  ney  in  his  mind,  that  it  was  being  flooded  by  snow  melting  high  up  in  the  Apennines.)  'They  continued  walking  " b"all  week,  pausing  occasionally  to  consult  a  Hachette  Guide,  and  everywhere  they  went  she  cut  sprigs  of  ivy.  She  cut  them  from  ruined  stones  in  the  Forum,  from  chariot  ruts  in  the  Colos-  seum,  from  beds  in  the  Borghese  Gardens,  and  from  the  walls  of  the  Vatican  Museum.  In  the  evenings,  when  they  returned  to  the  hotel,  she  put  the  sprigs  in  a  glass  of  water  on  their  bureau.  At  the  end  of  the  week,  when  they  left  by  bus  for  Florence,  she  wrapped  the  sprigs  in  moist  paper,  placed  them  in  a  plastic  sack,  and  stuck  them  in  her  handbag.  The  bus  went  to  Florence  by  way  of  Assisi,  where  she  added  to  her  collection  of  ivy  by  snippinga  shoot  from  the  walls  of  the  monastery.  In  Flor-  ence,  they  did  an  extraordi-  nary  amount  of  walking.  They  walked  along  the  Arno,which  he  was  surprised  tofind  muddy  and  full  of  shoals,  and  down  innumerable  corridors  of  the  Pitti  Palace  and  the  Uffizi  Gallery.  She  found  lovely  ivy  in  the  Boboli  Gardens,  and  on  the  last  day,  after  they  had  climbed  up  the  stone  steps  to  the  Piazzale  Michel-  angelo,  from  which  they  could  see  the  summits  of  the  Apennines  on  one  side  and  the  plain  of  Florence  on  the  other,  he  saw  her  as  he  stood  by  the  railing-  his  mind  unreeling  from  his  body  like  a  fishing  line  from  its  spool-smile  for  the  first  time  in  days  as  she  stooped  to  cut  another  sprig  from  a  vine  that  grew  along  the  staircase.  When  they  returned  to  Rome,  by  train,  the  sack  of  ivy  bulged  her  hand-  bag.  During  the  trip,  the  leaves  of  some  of  the  older  shoots  began  to  droop,  but  she  managed  to  sustain  them  by  keep-  ing  the  paper  moist.  That  evening,  they  flew  to  Catania,  where  his  brother  met  them  at  the  airport.  His  brother  was  a  land-use  expert  who  had  been  in  4974616c79  a  year,  donating  paste  and  dispensing  farm  equipment  in  behalf  of  a  govern-  ment-aid  program.  Tall,  frail,  and  som-  bre  in  expression,  he  grasped  each  of  them  by  the  arm  and  steered  them  through  a  noisy  crowd  in  the  terminal  building;  then  he  drove  them  to  a  hotel  that  was  situated  on  the  lower  slopes  of  Mount  Etna.  Before  they  went  to  bed,  she  carefully  arranged  her  ivy  in  a  water  pitcher.  The  sprigs  were  holding  their  own.  Tiny  white  shoots  had  al-  ready  begun  to  sprout  from  some  of  the  stems.  She  pointed  them  out  to  him  joy-  fully.  During  the  following  week,  his  brother  took  them  sightseeing.  His  brother  was  well  versed  in  the  history  of  4974616c79,  and,glad  to  be  free  of  the  Biblically  fine  print  of  the  Hachette  Guide,  they  surrendered  themselves  gratefully  to  his  knowledge.  At  Syra-  cuse,  they  ate  a  picnic  lunch  in  the  ruins  of  the  Fort  of  Euryelus,  and  she  plucked  ivy  from  the  quarry  walls  of  the  Latomia  del  Paradiso.  At  Gela,  they  examined  some  Greek  walls  dating  from  the  fifth  century,  but  she  found  no  ivy  growing  there.  At  Agrigento,  they  spent  a  morning  wandering  through  the  [REDACTED]  of  the  Temples  in  a  driving  rain.  At  noon,  they  returned  to  their  hotel,  thoroughly  drenched,  and  found  the  water  pitcher  on  the  bureau  empty,  and  all  her  ivy  gone.  She  burst  into  tears  and  flung  herself  upon  the  bed.  He  rushed  out  into  the  corridor,  seized  a  startled  chambermaid  by  the  arm,  and  brought  her  back.  His  puzzled  brother  translated.  The  ivy  was  fading,  the  maid  explained.  Natu-  rally,  she  assumed  the  Signora  had  no  use  for  it,  but  perhaps  the  porter  would  remember  if  he  had  thrown  it  out.  He  went  off  to  find  the  porter.  The  porter  shrugged  at  his  story,  but  when  he  drew  a  thousand-lira  note  from  his  wal-  let  the  man  took  him  into  a  yard  behind  the  hotel,  rummaged  through  a  trash basket,  and  pulled  out  the  ivy,  which  was  in  a  paper  bag.  He  bore  it  back  to  her  in  triumph.  BEFORE  leaving  Agrigento,  he  bought  a  large  glass  jar,  and,  safe-  ly  ensconced  in  water,  the  ivy  was  placed  on  the  floor  beneath  the  back  seat  of  his  brother's  car.  They  drove  to  Caltanissetta  and  then  to  Enna,  through  a  barren  land  filled  with  grim  rock,  dead  turf,  and  dry  gulches.  The  rain  gave  way  to  cold  mist  as  they  climbed  higher,  and  they  drove  through  incred-  ibly  poor  mountain  villages  where  mis-  erable  stone  houses  soaked  up  the  damp  like  blocks  of  pumice  and  a  chill  wind  whipped  the  spindly  legs  of  undernour-  ished,  ill-clad  children.  He  only  half  listened  as  his  brother  enumerated  the  reasons  for  the  awful  poverty;  he  was  hoping  that  the  sight  of  the  children  would  not  sadden  her  further,  but  even  as  he  did  he  found  himself  wander-  ing  endlessly,helplessly  through  steep  gorges.  He  imagined  raindrops  forming  tiny  puddles  that,  overflowing,  became  trickles  that,  swelling,  grew  into  rivu-  lets,  brooks,  and  torrents,  which,  merg-  ing  now,  plunged  down  into  green  val-  leys  past  hillsides  dotted  with  grazing  sheep  and  the  ruins  of  ancient  temples  toward  the  sea.  ...  Bitterly,  his  brother  explained  the  frustrations  that  attended  his  work.  One  of  the  chief  problems  was  the  sad  neglect  of  the  land.  &quot;Pasta,  tractors  it's  just  stopgap  stuff,&quot;  his  brother  said.  &quot;What's  needed  is  a  real  program  of  reforestation  and  agrarian  education.  The  trouble  is  the  peasants  are  filled  with  hopelessness.  Ignorance,  the  " b"Mafia,  government  corruption,  over-  population-&quot;  Having  uttered  the  word,  his  brother  cast  a  quick  glance  at  him  and  broke  off  with  a  shrug.  They  spent  the  night  and  part  of  the  next  day  in  Enna.  It  was  still  raining  when  they  left,  late  in  the  afternoon,  but  the  rain  had  diminished  somewhat  by  the  timethey  reached  the  west-  ern  slopes  of  Mount  Etna,  and  his  brother  suggested  that  they  circle  north  around  the  mountain,  stay  the  night  at  Randazzo,  and  delay  their  return  to  Catania  for  another  day;  he  promised  to  show  them  some  remarkable  scenery.  They  agreed,  and  drove  on  over  a  nar-  row,  tortuous  road  that  wound  around  great  flows  of  lava  and  passed  through  dark  towns  that  seemed  darker  for  having  been  constructed  of  the  same  scorched  rock.  In  the  morning,  the  sun  was  shining.  As  they  continued  their  detour  around  the  mountain,  they  could  see  snow  fields  high  up  on  the  truncated  cone  of  the  volcano,  and  a  dark-green  belt  of  pines  beneath,  where  the  tree  line  ended.  When  they  reached  the  Mediterranean  side,  the  sun  was  high  in  the  sky,  and  the  land  sloping  away  to  the  shining  blue-green  sea  was  splashed  with  groves  of  lemon  trees.  His  brother  parked  the  car  at  a  vantage  point,  and  they  climbed  out  to  take  in  the  view  at  leisure.  To  the  north,  toward  4974616c79,  the  coast  stretched  away  in  spectacularly  jagged  fashion.  Then  his  brother  pointed  to  a  place  directly  below  them,  between  the  towns  of  Fiumefreddo  and  Riposto,  where  there  was  an  immense  brown  stain  upon  the  sea.  The  stain  seemed  to  be  propelled  by  some  great  force,  and,  even  as  he  looked  along  his  brother's  outstretched  arm,  he  saw  it  spreading,  merging  with  the  green  water,  and  changing  shape  in  the  wind  and  cur-  rent.  His  brother  told  him  that  it  marked  the  mouth  of  a  stream  that  began  not  far  from  where  they  were  standing.  Then  he  pointed  out  the  course  of  the  stream,  which  ran  through  hidden  de-  files  in  the  lava  deposits,  through  lemon  groves  and  villages,  and  across  a  stretch  of  sandy  bottomland  before  it  reached  the  sea.  &quot;'There'sa  perfect  example  of  what  I  was  telling  you  yesterday,&quot;  his  brother  said  quietly.  &quot;Some  years  ago,  the  government  planted  trees  along  the  entire  course  of  the  stream  to  hold  the  earth  in  place.  But  as  fast  as  the  seed-  lings  were  put  into  the  ground,  they  were  eaten  up  by  goats  and  sheep.  It's  the  story  of  4974616c79.  No  one  ever  cares  in  time,  and  the  best  soil  has  long  ago  washed  out  to  sea.&quot;  FOR  a  long  while,  he  stood  rooted  to  the  spot,  and  watched  the  stain  spreading  over  the  azure  water.  Only  with  an  immense  effort  did  he  resist  the  temptation  to  escape,  to  begin  tracing  the  slow,  quickening,  and  then  endlessly  racing  descent  of  still  another  stream.  Finally,  when  he  turned  around,  strick-  en  with  doubt  and  fully  expecting  to  find  in  her  face  that  look  of  deprivation  which,  defying  the  erosion  of  all  geo-  logical  time,  could  only  be  matched  by  the  despair  in  his  heart,  she  was  not  there.  She  had  crossed  to  the  other  side  of  the  roadway,  where,  kneeling  beside  a  low  retaining  wall-a  tiny  stone  wall  that  seemed  incredibly  frail  against  the  vast  thrust  of  the  mountain-she  was  cutting  yet  another  sprig  of  ivy. "