 b"Mr.  Edom,  who  kept  the  Abbey  M  Antique  Galleries,  was  a  man  of  punctuality.  He  had  other  neat  virtues,  too,  such  as  discretion  and  probity;  but  it  was  his  punctuality  he  took  pride  in  and  found  positively  en-  joyable.  When  Mr.  Collins  came  on  trial  as  assistant,  Mr.  Edom  laid  it  down  as  law  that  when  he  said  &quot;pre-  cisely&quot;  he  meant  &quot;precisely.&quot;  In  the  course  of  four  years  growing  affec-  tion  Mr.  Collins  observed  that  inhis  zeal  not  to  be  late  Mr.  Edom  was  invariably  too  early,  and  that  &quot;pre-  cisely&quot;  could  be  anythingup  to  a  quar-  ter  of  an  hour.  At  cight-thirty  precisely-that  is  to  say,  about  cight-seventeen-Mr.  Edom  would  leave  his  lodgings,  walk  along  St.  John  Street,  and  let  himself  into  the  Galleries,  where  Mr.  Collins  was  expected  to  appear  ten  minutes  later.  This  interval  of  solitude  was  a  sort  of  matins  to  Mr.  Edom.  He  had  a  look  round,  recollected  himself,  and  pre-  pared  his  mind  for  theday.  As  for  Mrs.  Knowles,  the  cleaner,  being  a  family  woman  she  could  not  be  there  reliable  till  five  minutes  to  nine.  On  Saturdays  she  could  not  come  in  the  morning  at  all  but  obliged  for  an  hour  in  the  evening,  during  which  time  Police  Con-  stable  [REDACTED],  who  was  her  second  cousin,  made  it  apoint  to  be  within  earshot,  in  case  a  burglar  broke  in  and  set  off  that  bloodcurdling  burglar  alarm,  the  very  sound  of  which  made  her  ready  to  faint  dead  away.  The  morning  Mr.  Edom  and  Mr.  Collins  were  destined  to  remember  as  &quot;that  morning&quot;  was  a  fine  September  morning,  and  St.  John  Street  was  looking  its  best.  The  trim  housefronts,  the  empty  pavements,  the  spire  of  St.  John's  Church-considered  by  many  as  even  finer  than  the  Abbey's-a  blue  sky,  and  one  well-placed  cumulus  cloud  made  up  a  delightful  picture.  Mr.  Edom  was  looking  at  the  spire,  which,  because  it  soared  above  rites  classed  as  Low,  and  because  incense  made  him  sneeze  and  sneezing  made  him  feel  conspicuous,  he  had  strong  reason  to  prefer,  when  a  jackdaw's  swoop  car-  ried  his  sight  downward  to  observe  that  two  men  were  standing  in  front  of  his  shop  door.  Beside  them  was  a  hand-  cart,  and  on  the  handcart  was  a  bulky  object,  muffled  in  sacking.  As  he  approached,  the  larger  of  the  two  men  looked  round,  saw  him,  and  nudged  the  other.  &quot;Are  you  Mr.  Edom?&quot;  inquired  the  smaller  man.  (KI  2,111,\xe2\x80\x9d  The  larger  man  said  reproachfully,  &quot;We  thought  you  was  never  coming.&quot;  Nettled  by  this  imputation  against  his  punctuality,  Mr.  Edom  took  an  in-  stant  dislike  to  them  both,  and  said  coldly,  &quot;Well?&quot;  &quot;We've  been  here  thislast  half  hour,&quot;  said  the  smaller  man.  &quot;More,&quot;  said  the  other.  (t\xe2\x80\x98vhy?3)  &quot;We've  brought  something  along.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  Mr.  Edom,  chafing  on  his  own  threshold,  couldvouchsafe  only  monosyllables.  &quot;Well,  in  a  manner  of  speaking,  it's  a  throwout.  His  Reverence-&quot;  &quot;Who?&quot;  &quot;Father  Brady.  He  threw  it  out-  because  of  it  getting  into  his  new  kneelers.  But  seeing  as  it's  what  you  might  call  an  antique,  we  thought  we'd  begin  by  bringing  it  along  to  you.  Here,  Jim.  You  undo  it.  Handle  it  careful,  though.&quot;  Looking  more  attentively  at  the  two  men,  Mr.  Edom  thought  he'd  seen  Jim  before,  unloading  sacks  of  potatoes  in  the  market.  &quot;Careful  round  that  elbow,  Jim!  Easy  does  it.  It's  not  as  young  as  it  was.&quot;  Neither  were  the  sacks,  which  stank.  Mr.  Edom  stepped  back.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  see  it,  whatever  it  is.&quot;  But  it  was  too  late;  the  last  wrapping  was  pulled  away.  Standing  on  the  cart  was  a  life-sized  matronly  lady  in  an  ecstasy.  At  the  same  mo-  ment,  Mr.  Collins,  speaking  from  behind  him,  exclaimed,  &quot;Good  Lord!  There's  Ba-  roque  for  you!  High  Ba-  roque  at  that.  Where  would  you  sayshe  came  from?  She  looks  Italian  to  me.&quot;  &quot;If  you  ask  my  opinion,&quot;  said  the  smaller  man,  &quot;she's  an  antique.  That  is,  judging  by  the  weight.&quot;  Jim  agreed,  adding  that  those  worm-  holes  weren't  made  yesterday.  Mr.  Edom  remarked  that  some  of  them  were.  &quot;But  where  did  you  find  her?  How  did  she  get  here?&quot;  asked  the  besotted  Collins.  &quot;We  brought  her  along  from  St.  Philomena's.  We  delivered  a  load  of  kneelers  there  last  night,  and  Father  Brady  said  he  was  throwing  her  out  and  we  was  to  come  round  early  this  morning  tofetch  her  away.&quot;  With  uncalled-for  initiative  Mr.  Collins  was  now  tapping  the  lady, and  pronouncing  that  she  wasn't  past  praying  for  and  that  it  would  be  quite  possible  to  do  something  about  her  nose.  &quot;It's  odd  how  noses  go  first,&quot;  he  mused.  Themen  were  folding  up  the  sacks.  Miss  Larpent,  leading  her  spaniel  for  its  morning  walk,  came  past.  The  span-  iel  shrank  back  and  barked  violently.  Violently,  Miss  Larpent  dragged  it  onward.  &quot;It's  wormed  all  through.  It's  out  of  the  question,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  but  you  must  take  it  somewhere  else.  Come,  Collins.&quot;  As  though  they  were  both  called  Collins,  the  men  began  to  lift  the  lady  off  the  handcart.  &quot;Stop!  I  tell  you,  I  don't  want  her.  Kindly  take  her  away.&quot;  By  now  they  were  supporting  her  in  midair,  while  Mr.  Collins,  who  had  obligingly  gone  down  on  his  knees  in  answer  to  Jim's  request  to  give  her  a  shove  up,  mate,  appeared  to  be  in  the  act  of  adoration.  Miss  Larpent,  pausing,  had  been  joined  by  Mrs.  Toller  and  old  Miss  Palk,  out  with  their  poodles.  Three  schoolboys  stood  gaping.  So  did  the  milkman.  In  another  moment,  a  mob  would  gather.  &quot;Have  a  heart!&quot;  exclaimed  the  larger  man.  The  boys  cheered  the  sentiment.  The  dogs  barked.  Mrs.  Enowles,  coming  briskly  round  the  corner,  cannonaded  into  Miss  Larpent,  said,  &quot;Beg  your  par-  don,  I'm  sure,&quot;  in  a  tone  more  befitting  extortion  with  men-  aces,  and  rushed  on  to  the  defense  of  her  employer-as  nice  a  gentleman  as  ever  trod,  but  too   meekhearted  for  his  own  good.  Mr.  Edom,  barring  the  way  into  the  Gal-  leries,  shouted,  &quot;Take  her  round  by  the  back!  Collins!  Show  them  where  to  go.  Leave  her  in  the  yard,  mind.  I  won't  have  her  indoors.&quot;  &quot;What  about  paying?&quot;  mouthed  Mr.  Collins,  and  was  told  to  settle  with  them  somehow.  A  less  temperate  employer  might  well  have  left  Mr.  Collins  to  settle  out  of  his  own  pocket,  but  when  Mr.  Collins  came  back,  fur-  tively  brushing  his  sleeves,  Mr.  Edom  asked  how  much  it  had  taken,  learned  that  they  had  gone  for  fifteen  shillings  apiece,  and  paid  without  comment.  It  had  to  be  admitted  that  Collins  kept  asteady  head  for  bargaining-if  for  nothing  else.  But  Mr.  Edom  was  still  angry.  Things  had  gotout  of  hand.  He  had  been  rushed.  Collins  had  taken  too  much  on  himself.  It  would  be  another  " b" Majolica  Swan.  'The  majolica  swan,  rescued  by  Mr.  Collins  from  a  house  of  ill  fame,  had  eventually  been  bought  with  enthusiasm  by  a  doe-eyed  lady  from  [REDACTED],  who  featured  it  in  an  article  in  Country  Life;  but  in  the  interim  it  had  caused  Mr.  Edom  acute  embarrassment-its  eye  was  so  horribly  knowing  and  its  plumage  so  pink.  Meanwhile,  it  was  already  past  nine  o'clock  and  he  had  not  even  opened  his  letters.  &quot;The  whole  morning  gone!&quot;  he  muttered  to  himself.  This  was  overheard,  as  he  had  intended  it  to  be,  by  Mr.  Collins.  But  it  fell  on  deaf  ears.  Mr.  Collins  could  think  of  nothing  but  how  soon  he  could  get  into  the  yard  and  have  another  look  at  his  love,  his  nonpareil,  his  princess  snatched  from  Saracens.  Young  men  traditional-  ly  fall  in  love  with  mature  women.  Mr.  Collins  was  madly  in  love  with  his  matron  in  ecstasy  and  believed  she  was  aBernini.  His  wish  was  answered  sooner  than  he  dared  expect.  Though  thirty  shillings  is  not  a  great  sum,  one  can't  disburse  it  without  feeling  some  degree  of  inter-  est  in  what  one  has  got  in  exchange.  &quot;That  figure,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom  in  a  dispassionate  voice,  &quot;that  image,  that  whatever  you  call  her-I  suppose  we  ought  to  have  a  look  at  her.  Mrs.  Enowles  will  call  us  if  anyone  comes  in.&quot;  Secluded  in  the  yard,  the  lady  looked  even  more  commandingly  rapt  and  en-  skied.  A  fine  figure  of  a  woman,  and  further  extended  by  her  state  of  ecstasy,  she  was  as  tall  as  Mr.  Collins,  and  con-  siderably  taller  than  Mr.  Edom.  She  had  been  put  down  with  a  jolt.  There  were  trickles  of  yellowish  powder  on  the  stones,  and  more  lay  in  the  folds  of  her  draperies.  &quot;When  I  was  a  youngster,  I'd  have  been  set  to  go  into  every  one  of  thoseholes  with  a  needle  and  paraffin  wax,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom.  &quot;You  learned  the  hard  way,&quot;  Mr.  Collins  said.  &quot;I  did.&quot;  They  walked  round  her  once  more.  &quot;\xc2\xa9They've  let  her  go  too  far,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom.  &quot;Mind  you,  it's  not  a  style  I'm  in  sympathy  with.  But  when  you  think  what  a  lot  of  work  someone  must  have  put  intoher,  it  seems  a  shame,  I  must  say.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  what  the  small  man  told  me?  He  told  me  that  Father  Brady  said  if  they  would  take  her  off  his  hands  they  were  welcome  to  whatever  they  could  get  selling  her  for  kindling.&quot;  &quot;She's  too  wormed  to  be  any  good  as  kindling.&quot;  Once  more  they  walked  round  the  lady.  Mr.  Edom  gave  her  a  smart  tap  on  the  bosom  and  said,  &quot;''T&quot;cha!&quot;  There  was  reproach  in  his  tone,  but  there  was  regret,  too.  &quot;Of  course  we  could  kill  the  worm.  Any  fool  can  kill  worm  nowadays-I'll  say  that  for  those  sci-  entific  chaps.  But  suppose  we  stop  it?  What  are  we  to  do  with  her  then?&quot;  &quot;Put  her  in  the  Galleries.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you'd  say  that.  But  what  about  my  good  name,  Collins?  Haven't  I  made  it  a  rule  never  to  sell  anything  with  a  trace  of  worm?  Only  last  month  you  saw  me  turn  down  those  Trafalgar  chairs.  I  could  have  sold  them  a  dozen  times  over,  but  I  wouldn't  look  at  them.  So  what  are  people  going  to  say  when  they  come  in  and  find  this?&quot;  &quot;Religious  art's  different.  People  who  won't  stand  two  wormholes  in  a  sideboard  wouldn't  look  at  a  saint  with-  out  them.  Give  them  wormholes  and  you  give  them  something  for  their  imagination  to  play  on.&quot;  &quot;People  are  fools  enough  for  any-  thing,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom.  The  condemnation,  however,  seemed  to  afford  him  a  secret  pleasure;  it  was  as  though  he  were  about  to  burst  into  some  after-  dinner  confidence.  He  repressed  it,  and  glared  stonily  before  him.  &quot;There's  one  thing,  and  that's  flat.  Before  you  lay  as  much  as  a  finger  on  her,  Col-  Tins,  I'm  going  to  make  sure  Father  Brady  doesn't  think  I'm  by  way  of  buying  his  throwouts.  No  misunder-  standings  on  that  score.  Yes,  Mrs.  Knowles?&quot;  &quot;''There's  an  old  party  picking  up  wineglasses.  Name  like  Periscope.&quot;  Identifying  a  familiar  customer,  Mr.  Edom  re\xc3\xa9ntered  the  Galleries,  say-  ing,  &quot;Good  morning,  Mrs.  Killigrew.&quot;  Mrs.  Killigrew,  as  usual,  was  finding  it  hard  to  make  up  her  mind.  Mr.  Edom,  most  unusually,  found  himself  in  the  same  predicament.  Should  he?  Shouldn't  he?  And  if  he  should,  what  was  the  right  word?  That  acknowl-  edgment  ofthe  victory  of  science  over  woodworm  had  tweaked  his  thoughts  toward  other  fumigations.  Had  the  lady  in  an  ecstasy  been,  so  to  speak,  dealt  with  before  she  was  thrown  out?  The  word  wasn't  likely  to  be  &quot;excom-  municated,&quot;  and  &quot;decontaminated&quot;  seemed  needlessly  injurious.  But  had  she  been  dealt  with'  Did  remnants  of  sanctity  still  lurk  about  her;  was  she  still  part  of  the  Roman  Catholic  Church?  He  was  not  a  superstitious  man.  Mrs.  Killigrew  was  still  unable  to  decide  whether  a  fitted  workbox  wasn't  after  all  what  she  would  rather  buy  than  the  six  engraved  wineglasses  she  really  nceded,  when  a  dealer  named  Smollet,  trading  in  [REDACTED]  under  the  name  of  Roderick  Random,  came  in  fora  look  round.  He  was  followed  by  Miss  Larpent,  who  said,  looking  rather  wild  and  hard-pressed,  that  she  wanted-now,  whatwas  the  name?  Yes!  An  egg  timer-one  of  those  nice  old-fashioned  things  where  you  stood  the  sand  upside  down;  and  consoled  herself,  when  told  there  wasn't  one,  by  helping  Mrs.  Killigrew  make  up  her  mind.  The  pursuit  of  something  Mrs.  Killigrew  might  want  even  more  had  got  her  into  the  back  of  the  Galleries  and  poking  behind  a  scrapwork  screen,  in  case  the  morning's  marvel  was  there,  when  a  couple  of  Swedes  came  in,  both  enormously  tall,  magnificently  muscu-  lar,  and  speaking  perfect  English.  What  they  wanted  was  Art  Nouveau  hatpins.  Mr.  Edom  was  prepared  for  this  craze.  Under  the  bulging  eyesof  Miss  Larpent  he  unlocked  a  drawer  and  produced  two  Celtic  bosses  and  a  blister-pearl  snail  onan  ivy  leaf-and  made  a  nice  little  profit  on  the  transac-  " b"tion,  having  bought  them  off  a  white-  elephant  stall  for  eighteenpence  apiece.  The  Swedes,  their  passion  satisfied,  marched  out;  presently  Mrs.  Killigrew,  the  wineglasses,  and  Miss  Larpent  were  gone,  too.  Mr.  Edom  drew  Smollet  aside  for  a  quiet  cigarette.  Smollet  was  a  pleasant,  conversable  fellow,  who  took  the  vagaries  of  the  antique  trade  with  philosophy.  Of  late,  he  had  spe-  cialized  in  paintings,  so  Mr.  Edom  inquired,  &quot;How  are  Landseers?&quot;  and  heard  that  they  were  getting  a  bit  too  pricey  but  that  Smollet  had  beenun-  commonly  lucky  with  anAugustus  Egg.  Rosa  Bonheur,  too,  was  worth  attention.  And  religious  art,  asked  Mr.  Edom,  how  was  that  doing?  &quot;Do  you  do  much  with  fumed-oak  suites?&quot;  re-  plied  Smollet.  &quot;Mrs.  Salt  says  she's  buy-  ing  Overbecks.  Well,  she  can  afford  to.  A  woman  must  have  her  whim.  But  I  haven't  heard  that  she's  sold  one.  As  for  anything  larger  than  you  can  keep  in  your  pocket  for  a  pet,  it's  doornails.  You  can't  even  sell  it  to  churches  now-not  since  that  chap  Picasso  went  off  on  chapels.  That's  what  started  the  rot.&quot;  Mr.  Edom  looked  at  Mr.  Col-  lins,  who  was  tidying  up  after  Mrs.  Killigrew  and  not  evenneeding  to  pretend  he  wasn't  listening.  Thinking  of  his  wormy  idol,  he  moved  with  a  swelling  port,  and  smirked.  Smollet,  aspoliteness  bid,  was  prais-  ing  the  unspeculative,  irreproachable  classicism  of  Mr.  Edom's  stock,  and  as-  suring  him  he  had  chosen  the  better  part,  when  the  telephone  rang.  Mr.  Collins  answered  it.  A  high-pitched  gusty  yell  surged  into  the  Galleries.  Mr.  Collins  turned  pale,  said,  &quot;It's  Father  Brady,&quot;  and  handed  the  receiver,  still  gustily  resounding,  to  Mr.  Edom,  who,  holding  it  away  from  his  ear  and  speak-  ing  with  exasperating  calm,  said,  &quot;In-  deed&quot;  and  &quot;By  all  means&quot;  and  &quot;Any  time  that  suits  Your  Reverence&quot;  and  finally,  &quot;The  sooner  the  better.&quot;  In  the  electric  pause  that  followed,  Smol-  let  announced  that  he  must  begoing,  but  would  look  in  again  next  month,  and  was  gone.  Mr.  Edom  turned  to  his  assistant.  &quot;Collins,  what  exactly  did  you  say  to  those  men  in  the  yard?&quot;  &quot;I'm  afraid  I  called  Father  Brady  a  Vandal-because  they  didn't  know  what  Goth  meant.  I  also  said  he  was  an  ignoramus,  and  didn't  know  a  work  of  art  from  a  boiled  potato,  and  that  I  hoped  his  kneelers  would  choke  him.  I'm  afraid  I  went  too  far.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  all,  not  at  all.&quot;  &quot;If  you  want  me  to,  I'll  apologize.&quot;  &quot;No,  no.  But  leave  the  rest  to  me.  Let's  see,  now  -which  would  be  the  best  chair  for  him:  I  think  we'll  put  him  in  the  berg\xc3\xa9re.&quot;  HE  berg\xc3\xa9re  was  squat.  Father  Brady,  accustomed  to  using  every  inch  of  his  commanding  stature,  was  reduced  to  glaring  out  over  his  knees.  &quot;Now  then,&quot;  he  demanded,  &quot;what's  all  this  hullabaloo  about?&quot;  Mr.  Edom  looked  at  him  inquiringly.  &quot;I  haven't  come  here  to  quarrel,  mind  you,&quot;  Father  Brady  went  on.  &quot;I'm  a  man  of  peace.  But  I've  been  hearing  this,  and  I've  been  hearing  that,  till  I'm  perfectly  bejingled.  And  I  mean  to  stay  till  I've  got  to  the  bottom  of  it.&quot;  &quot;I'm  always  pleased  to  see  people  come  in.  No  obligation  to  buy.&quot;  Mr.  Collins  started  at  hearing  his  Mr.  Edom,  who  spoke  as  an  equal  to  Smollets  and  Roebecks,  assume  this  grovelling,  commercial  tone.  Father  Brady  started,  too-apprehensively-  and  muttered  something  about  looking  in  nearer  Christmas.  There  followed  a  long  pause,  during  which  Christmas,  though  imperceptibly,  drew  nearer.  &quot;'There's  being  too  much  talk  alto-  gether,&quot;  Father  Brady  said.  &quot;Odious,  harmful  talk.&quot;  He  spoke  feelingly,  because  he  spoke  of  his  own  sufferings.  It  had  begun  with  the  milkman,  who  while  deliver-  ing  milk  at  the  presbytery  told  the  housekeeper  that  he  had  witnessed  Jim  Ensor  and  Herb  Lake  offering  to  sell  a  statue  to  Mr.  Edom  and  boasting  they  had  got  it  out  of  St.  Philomena's.  Quelling  this  alarm  ruined  his  break-  fast.  His  ears  were  still  ringing  with  his  housekeeper's  assurances  that  even  if  Jim  Ensor  and  Herb  Lake  had  not  in  this  instance  committed  a  larceny  it  was  only  natural  to  conclude  that  they  had,  sincetheir  characters  were  notori-  ous,  and  everybody  knew  how  Dorothy  Ensor  and-to  her  shame  be  it  spo-  ken-Mrs.  Patsy  Wendover  feasted  on  early  peas  and  the  first  asparagus  filched  from  the  market  under  the  noses  of  honest  customers  who  couldn't  afford  such  delicacies,  so  sacrilege  would  be  nothing  to  that  pair,  when  the  pair  in  question  were  back  with  their  handcart,  offering  to  remove  anything  else  His  Reverence  wanted  to  get  rid  of.  It  was  from  Lake,  venting  his  spleen  at  being  told  there  was  nothing  more  for  them,  that  he  heard  how  the  assistant  had  described  him  as  a  scandal,  an  ignoramus,  and  a  boiled  potato.  Scan-" b"dal  was  a  thing  to  be  avoided  at  all  costs;  but  before  hecould  see  what  avoiding  action  could  be  taken  Miss  Palk  was  upon  him,  roaring  that  the  statue  had  been  at  St.  Philomena's  even  in  her  mother's  day  and  had  always  been  known  to  be  immensely  valuable;  and  that  if  nobody  else  would  act  with  a  vestige  of  Christian  feeling  she  would  drag  it  away  from  Mr.  Edom  with  her  own  hands,  to  teach  him  and  his  ruf-  fianly  hirelings  they  couldn't  steal  church  property  unresisted,  even  if  they  did  get  up  before  sunrise  to  do  so.  She  was  still  declaiming,  and  the  poodle  was  barking  at  the  presbytery  cat,  and  the  housekeeper,  who  had  arrived  to  de-  fend  the  cat,  was  remaining  to  explain  to  Miss  Palk  how  the  whole  affair  was  a  plot  to  scandalize  His  Reverence's  name-Herb  Lake  had  out  and  out  confessed  it,  and  for  Herb  Lake  to  tell  the  truth  was  something  so  out  of  the  common  that  you  needs  must  be-  lieve  him  when  he  did-when  the  milkman's  sister  came  rushing  in  with  the  news  that  the  Jews  were  after  it  already;  there  were  threeof  them  in  the  Galleries  smoking  cigars  with  Mr.  Edom,  and  a  Jaguar  two  doors  farther  down,  with  tiger-skin  upholstery  and  a  bloodhound  on  the  back  seat.  Father  Brady  had  flown  for  shelter  to  St.  Philo-  mena's,  where,  secluding  himself  in  a  confessional,  he  had  prayed  violently  to  Our  Lady  Help  of  Christians  to  be  kept  in  charity  with  all  men.  But  when  he  crept  out,  his  housekeeper  was  wait-  ing  for  him,  and  rubbed  so  much  salt  and  sympathy  into  his  wounds  that  by  the  time  he  rangup  the  Abbey  Antique  Galleries  he  was  as  angry  as  anyone  could  wish.  Unfortunately,  he  had  set  out  with  such  impetus  that  he  had  not  arranged  his  anger  under  headings.  So  now  he  repeated  that  there  had  been  too  much  talk.  Mr.  Edom  nodded  gravely,  and  contrived,  Mr.  Collins  noticed,  to  look  as  though  he  were  Father  Brady's  bish-  op,  who  hoped  to  temper  justice  with  mercy  but  at  present  couldn't  see  his  way  to.  &quot;I'm  a  busy  man,&quot;  Father  Brady  said.  &quot;And  the  parish,  praise  God,  is  growing  by  leaps  and  bounds,without  a  whisper  ofa  curate.  So  let  me  tell  you  in  plain  words,  I've  neither  time  nor  patience  for  being  scandalized  and  slandered.&quot;  Mr.  Edom  held  up  a  hand  for  silence,  and  said  in  silvery  tones,  &quot;I  was  afraid  this  would  happen.  I  and  my  assistant  did  our  best.  But  we  were  too  late.  There  were  people  about.  The  statue  was  on  the  handcart,  exposed  to  public  gaze.  It  was  bound  to  create  re-  mark.  And  the  language  of  the  two  porters  was  injudicious.  'They  shouldn't  have  used  the  expression,  'thrown  out  by  His  Reverence.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;And  haven't  Ia  perfect  rightto  throw  her  out?&quot;  &quot;As  to  that,  I  can't  say.&quot;  &quot;It  was  alive  with  the  worm.&quot;  &quot;Shockingly  so.  It  must  havebeen  neglected  for  years.  But  the  expression  'thrown  out  by  His  Reverence'  should  never  have  been  used.  As  I  said,  we  did  all  in  our  power  to  avert  scandal.  But  it  was  too  late.  No  one,&quot;  said  the  bishop  feelingly,  &quot;regrets  the  incident  more  than  I.  Mr.  Collins,  my  assistant,  will  bear  me  out.&quot;  &quot;It  was  the  irreverence,&quot;  confirmed  the  chaplain,  &quot;that  was  so  awful.  She  might  havebeen  a  carcass  of  beef,  the  way  they  hauled  her  about.&quot;  The  accents  of  truthoften  miscarry.  'These  did.  Father  Brady  said  with  a  snort,  &quot;Well,  we're  used  to  being  blamed  for  worshipping  im-  ages.  Now  it  seems  we're  as  bad  if  we  don't.  There's  no  pleasing  you.&quot;  And  feeling  that  he  had  got  the  last  word,  he  scrambled  out  of  the  berg\xc3\xa9re.  The  interview  had  not  gone  as  he  had  intended.  He  had  been  out-generalled,  though  he  could  not  see  how;  but  being  in  the  main  a  sensible  man,  he  admitted  a  defeat  and  sensibly  went  away  to  think  about  some-  thing  else.  T  was  expected  that  the  Helen  of  all  this  rumpus  would  figure  in  the  window  immediately.  When  she  did  not,  it  was  taken  as  proof  that  the  Jews  had  got  her,that  she  had  been  bought  for  the  nation,  that  Mr.  Edom,  having  stolen  her,  was  afraid  to  exhibit  her,  that  he  was  warming  his  toes  at  her  on  these  chilly  September  evenings.  &quot;Take  your  time,&quot;  Mr.  Edom  had  said  to  his  assistant,  fending  off  the  hor-  rid  hour  of  her  reappearance.  Mr.  Col-  lins  obeyed.  There  was  a  disused  privy  in  the  yard,  and  this  he  converted  into  a  fumigating  chamber  and  gave  his  darling  three  separate  doings.  Then  he  aired  her,  to  get  some  of  the  smell  out.  Then  he  brushed  her.  Then  he  re-  stored  her  nose  with  plastic  wood,  and  did  a  few  small  repairs  to  her  dra-  peries,  and  colored  the  renovations  to  match  the  rest  of  her.  Then  he  oiled  her  all  over,  and  left  the  oil  to  sink  in;  and  repeated  the  process.  Then  he  wax-  polished  her.  Even  when  all  this  was  done,  her  complexion  had  a  bleached,  hungry  look,  so  he  went  to  the  beauty  shop  in  Abbey  Circus  and  bought  eyeshade  of  various  tints,  grease  paints,  dry  rouge,  and  a  baesan\xc3\xa9  face  powder.  His  first  attempts  were  too  dramatic  andhad  to  be  re-  moved  with  cotton  batting;  but  by  delicately  dabbing  on,  wiping  off,  and  judging  the  effects  from  a  distance  he  achieved  his  in-  tention:  which  was  to  suggest  that  in  her  High  Baroque  youth  she  had  been  colored,  and  retained  traces  of  it.  Mr.  Edom,  disapproving  but  engaged,  rec-  ommended  a  final  application  of  se-  lected  grime  and  a  faint  streak  of  co-  baltin  a  fold  of  her  draperies,  together  with  a  judicious  aging  of  her  profile  by  sandpapering.  The  horrid  hour  had  come.  Some-  how  or  other,  he  must  reconcile  him-  self  to  having  her  in  the  Galleries.  At  the  last  moment,  he  saw  a  chink  of  hope  and  generously  suggested  that  " b"Mr.  Collins  might  like  to  keep  her  in  his  lodgings,  for  private  enjoyment.  It  didn't  work.  Mr.  Colling  first  pure  passion  had  been  corrupted  by  the  ostentation  ofthe  creator;  he  had  done  such  a  good  job  on  her  that  he  wanted  to  see  it  appre-  ciated.  Vowing  that  never  again  would  he  give  Collins  his  head,  Mr.  Edom  helped  to  carry  her  into  the  Gal-  leries.  This  was  on  a  Friday  evening,  after  closing  hours.  They  moved  her  from  place  to  place;  they  tried  her  in  front  of  the  scrapwork  screen,  behind  the  day  bed,  beside  the  harp.  Wherever  they  tried  her,  she  appeared  aggressively  human.  &quot;The  only  thing  to  do,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom  at  length,  &quot;is  to  sky  her.  Get  the  stepladder,  and  we'll  hoist  her  on  top  of  the  court  cupboard.&quot;  Skied,  she  seemed  to  settle  down.  Mr.  Collins  admit-  ted  this,  though  he  wished  the  court  cupboard  were  not  in  a  corner,  and  an  ill-lit  one  at  that.  &quot;I  suppose  she'll  be  no-  ticed,  up  there.&quot;  &quot;Bound  to  be.&quot;  On  Saturday  evening  Mr.  Edom  was  roused  from  his  Madeira  and  wal-  nuts  by  P.  C.  [REDACTED].  P.  C.  Daven-  port  had  been  proceeding  down  St.  John  Street  when  his  ear  was  caught  by  a  loud  scream  coming  from  the  Galleries.  Making  a  forcible  entry  and  thereby  setting  off  the  burglar  alarm,  he  had  found  Mrs.  Knowles  in  a  crouching  position  under  a  table,  unin-  jured  but  hysterical.  She  had  been  tidying  round  as  usual,  she  stated,  when  she  looked  up  and  saw  something  right  over  her,  as  large  as  a  stuffed  bear.  P.  C.  [REDACTED]  put  this  down  to  imagination;  he  had  not  been  able  to  see  anything  like  a  bear.  But  Mrs.  Knowles  being  so  upset,  he  had  thought  it  best  to  take  her  straight  home  before  coming  to  report.  Even  in  panic  flight,  Mrs.  Knowles  had  broken  nothing.  Formally  intro-  duced  to  the  matron  in  an  ecstasy,  and  admitting  that,  on  a  steadier  view,  the  likeness  to  a  bear  was  fanciful,  she  con-  tinued  to  assert  that  if  she  were  to  come  in  on  Saturdays  she  must  bring  Doris  with  her.  Doris  was  as  sensible  as  if  she  were  a  grown  girl;  she  would  finger  nothing,  provided  she  had  a  toffee  apple  to  occupy  her  mind.  But  if  Doris  did  not  finger,  she  must  have  exhaled,  for  she  left  tidemarks  of  stickiness.  Doris  was  not  all  Mr.  Edom  had  to  contend  with.  There  was  also  Miss  Palk.  Miss  Palk  had  constituted  herself  a  sort  of  recording  sacristan.  Whenever  she  saw  strangers  in  the  Galleries  {}{and  as  her  flat  was  almost  immediately  op-  posite,  she  had  every  opportunity  to  do  so),  she  would  appear  at  their  elbow  and  draw  their  attention  to  the  im-  mensely  valuable  and  ancient  statue  from  St.  Philomena's-though  now,  alas,  it  didn't  look  at  all  the  same,  her  dear  mother  would  have  been  hard  put  to  it  to  recognize  the  object  of  her  spe-  cial  devotion.  This  would  not  have  helped  sell  the  figure,  even  if  anyone  had  shown  signs  of  buying  it;  but  no  one  had,  except  a  lady  from  the  north,  in  tweeds  with  diamonds,  who  said  there  ought  to  be  a  Fund  for  buying  back  what  should  never  have  been  torn  from  its  rightful  church,  and  how  will-  ingly  she  would  support  it  if  there  were.  Why  didn't  Miss  Palk  insist  on  a  col-  lecting  box  being  kept  in  the  shop?  It  was  the  least  the  proprietor  could  do.  Knowledgeable  visitors  commented  on  the  unaccommodating  particularity  of  baroque-it  just  didn't  Mix.  The  more  frivolous  complained  that  somehow  or  other  they  had  got  sticky.  Children  asked  who  that  lady  was,  and  if  she  could  be  wound  up  to  play  tunes.  But  Mr.  Edom's  familiar  and  valued  cus-  tomers  said  nothing  and  looked  else-  where,  except  for  Mrs.  Otter,  who  with  a  flash  of  her  old  spirit  said  she  loved  Mr.  Edom's  fallen  Elizabeth  Fry.  By  now  it  was  November.  The  mists  from  the  Abbey  water  meadows  crept  through  the  town  in  a  medieval  way,  as  though  they  carried  pestilence.  Noises  were  loud  and  ungainly,  for  there  was  no  resilience  in  the  air.  Shoes  were  plastered  with  dead  leaves,  A  death  sweat  came  out  on  anything  French-  polished.  Mrs.  Knowles  said  it  would  be  a  green  Christmas  and  we  all  knew  what  came  of  that.  She  glanced  at  Mr.  Edom  as  she  spoke.  Though  deaths  in  general  are  enjoyable,she  would  be  sorry  to  see  Mr.  Edom  fatteninga  churchyard;  and  it  looked  to  her  as  though  he  were  not  what  hewas.  To  Mr.  Edom  it  looked  as  though  his  shop  were  not  what  it  was.  Apart  from  hauntings  by  Doris  and  Miss  Palk,  it  had  lost  tone.  The  wrong  people  were  " b"coming  in,  and  far  too  many  of  them.  'They  bargained,  they  jostled,  they  damaged;  they  didn't  appreciate  what  they  bought,  but  said  it  would  do  for  Christmas  presents.  Ever  since  the  ec-  static  lady's  advent,  the  Galleries  had  been  going  down-as  neighborhoods  do  when  the  Irish  get  in.  She  was  a  false  note,  like  disproportioned  sin,  like  the  Majolica  Swan.  He  smiled  grimly  when  he  remembered  debating  with  himself  on  that  fatal  morning  whether  she  ought  to  be  unfrocked-which  wasn't  the  word  either.  A  dozen  exor-  cisms  would  have  made  no  difference.  He  had  no  one  but  himself  to  blame.  He  should  never  have  given  way.  He  knew  at  the  time  he  should  have  spurned  her.  He  was  scrupulous  not  tosaya  word  of  reproach  to  Mr.  Collins.  Mr.  Collins  felt  the  scruples,  and  would  have  pre-  ferred  reproaches,  as  he  could  have  called  them  unjustified.  It  seemed  to  him  that  if  Mr.  Edom  could  be  got  to  take  an  interest  in  the  lady  on  the  court  cupboard  he  might  then  become  recon-  ciled  to  her.  Trying  to  arouse  this  inter-  est  he  said  one  morning,  when  hope  was  predominating  over  experience,  that  as  Christmas  was  coming,  why  not  move  her  down  into  the  window  and  make  a  feature  of  her?  They  could  corroborate  her  with  the  coffin  stool  and  one  or  two  folios;  these  would  be  in  keeping-at  any  rate,  their  bindings  would  be.  Mr.  Edom  replied  that  he  could  do  as  he  pleased.  'There  was  a  letter  in  Mr.  Edom's  hand.  It  was  from  Smollet,  to  say  that  if  the  slate-topped  chess  table  was  still  about  he  would  like  it;  and  that  he  would  look  in  during  the  afternoon.  Thank  God,  Collins  couldn't  get  her  down  singlehanded.  Though  it  was  in-  evitable  that  Smollet  should  notice  her,  at  least  she  would  bedecently  on  high.  Smollet  noticed  her  with  his  first  flicking  glance;  but  he  said  nothing,  though  his  glance  had  several  times  re-  verted,  and  presently  dwelled.  Inevita-  bly,  MissPalk  tripped  in,  and  began  her  recital.  &quot;I  really  must  introduce  myself.  I  am  one  of  her  admirers,  too.  I  have  known  her  since  I  was  a  wee  child,  when  my  mother,  who  was  an  expert  wood  carver  herself,  told  me-&quot;  &quot;Now  where  have  I  seen  you  be-  fore?&quot;  murmured  Smollet,  gazing  up-  ward.  &quot;At  St.  Philomena's,  at  St.  Philo-  mena's!  It's  so  tragic  that  she  isn't  there  any  longer.  We  all  miss  her  dreadfully.  But  she  looked  far  more  beautiful  there.  She's  never  been  quite  the  same  since.&quot;  &quot;Not  so  long  ago,  either,&quot;  con-  tinued  Smollet.  &quot;Was  it  in  [REDACTED],  last  year?  Or  in  [REDACTED],  on  my  way  back  from  Aix?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  but  she's  been  in  St.  Philo-  mena's  ever  since  my  mother-&quot;     &quot;I've  got  it!&quot;  Smollet  snapped  his  fingers,  and  turned  to  Mr.  Edom.  &quot;She's  one  of  the  Nine  Muses  in  the  Prince-Bishop's  theatre  at  Dudelsacker.  Quite  a  fair  copy,  too,  except  for  the  nose.  Whoever  put  that  nose  on  can't  have  seen  the  original  article,  where  it's  turned  up.  That's  what  foxed  me.&quot;  &quot;But  .  ..  but  ...&quot;  Becoming  aware  of  Miss  Palk  foam-  ing  beside  him,he  gave  her  a  slight  pat,  and  said  firmly,  &quot;You  ought  to  go  to  Dudelsacker.&quot;  Silently,  Mr.  Edom  offered  him  a  cigar.  &quot;'Thank  you.  I  will.  But  fancy  see-  ing  her  here!  How  did  you  come  by  her,  Edom?  She's  not  quite  in  your  usual  line.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  long  story,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom,  glancing  toward  Miss  Palk.  After  she'd  gone,  they  sat  down  and  he  told  it.  It  did  him  a  great  deal  of  good;  and  as  he  dilated  on  Mr.  Collins'  discerning  eye  and  restoring  hand,  it  didn't  do  Mr.  Collins  any  harm.  Smol-  let  stood  on  thestepladder  to  look  more  carefully  into  the  restorations.  He  laughed,  but  there  was  technical  ad-  miration  in  his  laugh.  &quot;You  ought  to  be  in  [REDACTED]  with  me,&quot;  he  remarked.  &quot;You're  wasted  down  here  with  the  only  honest  dealer  in  England.&quot;  &quot;I  couldn't  do  without  him,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom.  They  agreed  to  dine  together,  and  Smollet  promised  to  send  down  his  photographs  of  the  Prince-Bishop's  Muses,  so  that  Mr.  Collins  could  do  another  nose.  The  photographs  came.  The  lady  went  back  to  the  workshop.  Since  she  never  reappeared  in  the  Galleries,  it  be-  came  certain  that  the  Jews  had  got  her.  The  new  nose  threw  a  completely  new  light  on  her  character,  releasing  a  pagan  complacency  and  elation.  No  longer  an  embarrassment  to  Mr.  Edom,  no  long-  er  a  Bernini  to  Mr.  Collins,  no  longer  a  false  note,  she  became,  briefly,  their  private  pet.  And  on  Christmas  Eve-  by  which  time  she  had  been  brightly  painted  and  lavishly  gilded-she  was  taken  by  car,  under  a  tartan  rug,  to  a  Catholic  orphanage  three  counties  away.  There,  in  the  porch,  at  1  a.m.  pre-  cisely,  they  left  her-a  Saint,  a  Muse,  and  shortly,  they  hoped,  to  be  as  good  as  a  Circus. "