 b"SIX  weeks  before  the  death  of  Bonnie,  Mrs.  Hillyer  declared  that  the  girl  could  not  possibly  live  for  more  than  another  day  or  two.  But  this  death  was  very  slow  and  very  hard.  When  there  was  no  more  money  for  medicine,  the  only  way  Bonnie  could  get  through  each  night  was  for  her  mother  to  sit  by  her  side  and  hold  her  hand.  Julia  spent  many,  many  hours  thus  occupied  before  the  end  finally  came  in  December,  two  days  before  Christmas,  which  happened  to  be  Bon-  nie's  birthday.  She  would  have  been  twenty-two.  Julia  was  asleep  when  the  moment  came.  Tired  of  sitting  straight  up  in  the  rocker,  she  had  leaned  forward  and  put  her  head  on  the  blanket  next  to  Bonnie's  side.  She  slept  awhile  until  she  heard  a  rooster  crow.  Through  a  haze  of  sleep  Julia  heard  it,  the  crow  thin  and  distant.   She  looked  up  and  blinked,  a  sand  feel-  ing  in  her  eyelids.  From  the  still  bed  and  the  silence  she  knew  that  Bonnie  had  died;  the  hand  itself  still  was  warm.  In  the  early  months  of  Bonnie's  ill-  ness,  Mrs.  Hillyer  had  visited  on  a  num-  ber  of  occasions,  with  fruit  and  anxious  inquiry.  &quot;We  all  love  her,  Julia.  The  children  are  crying;  none  of  them  will  ever  forget  Bonnie.  You  tell  me,  Julia-is  there  anything  I  can  do?&quot;  But  that  was  before  it  became  so  fright-  ful,  so  frightful  and  unbearable.  The  last  bowl  of  fruit  was  long  since  gone,  the  last  five  dollars  bestowed  and  spent,  the  last  notes  from  the  children  long  ago  read  and  discarded  in  the  delirium  of  codeine  cough  syrup  and  intolerable  pain.  &quot;She  can't  possibly  live  for  more  than  another  day  or  two,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hillyer.  &quot;It's  awful,  awful,  awful.  She  won't  go to  the  hospital;  she  calls  it  a  death  house  and  so  does  her  mother.  At  least  they  could  help  her  pain,  but  she  won't  go.  All  she  wants  is  money  for  cough  medi-  cine.  And  you  wouldn't  know  her,  you  wouldn't  recognize  her,  she's  skin  and  bones  and  she  used  to  be  so  pretty.  It  breaks  my  heart  to  look  at  her.  I  can't  stand  it,  I  don't  have  the  strength  to  go  there  anymore.&quot;  It  was  fright,  not  the  money,  even  though  this  was  the  depression  ;  but  Mrs.  Hillyer  also  said,  &quot;Well,  I'm  zot  going  to  give  her  any  more  money.  Itold  Julia  today  this  five  dollars  was  the  last.  I  can't  go  on  paying  for  six  and  seven  and  eight  bottles  of  cough  medicine  aday,  I  just  can't.  Besides,  she  should  go  to  the  hospital,  she's  poisoning  herself  with  codeine.  I'm  not  going  to  give  her  an-  other  penny,  and  I  Aope  I  made  that  clear  to  both  her  and  Julia.&quot;  It  was  fright,  not  heartlessness.  Mrs.  Hillyer  wept  and  vomited  each  time  a  note  came,  and  there  were  at  least  three  of  them,  the  last  two  weeks  before  Christmas.  &quot;Dear  Fren,  I  had  me  no  meddisun  since  many  days.  May  I  ask  you,  dear  God,  please  help  me?  It  the  only  thing  for  my  pain.  My  Momma  she  bring  you  this  note,  I  so  weak  and  sick  I  cant  hardly  write,  but  I  get  me  some  meddisun  I  get  well  and  come  back  and  help  you  with  the  chillrun.  God  bless  you,  dear  fren,  and  help  me,  help  me,  dont  forget  me  I  have  such  pain.  ...&quot;  Julia  sat  up,  listened  and  watched.  Bonnie's  eyes  were  warm  brown  am-  ber,  the  gold  amber  of  a  lion's  eyes.  Julia  stared  from  her  own  small  puddly  black  eyes,  sunk  deep  and  built  in  the  bone  of  her  face.  Julia  herself  was  very  nearsighted,  or  close-sighted  as  she  called  it,  and  this  gave  her  at  times  an  expression  that  seemed  uncertain  and  bewildered,  despite  the  great  strength  of  her  face.  Her  cheekbones  were  flat  like  her  nose,  the  skin  of  her  forehead  almost  a  blue  black.  The  world  in  which  she  lived  judged  her  to  be  very  ugly.  Yet  before  her,  in  the  desiccation  of  a  long  and  terrible  illness,  her  daughter's  face  remained  light-colored.  Bonnie  was  a  light  girl;  the  blood  of  more  than  one  race  had  flowed  in  her  veins.  The  hand  was  limp;  she  was  gone.  She  had  passed  as  she  tried  to  breathe;  her  lips  were  open,  the  edges  of  her  white  teeth  showed.  She  had  been  awake,  thinking  of  something,  look-  ing  at  her  mother.  The  nights  of  pain  were  over;  Bonnie  was  gone.  Julia  stood  for  a  moment  over  the  bed,  a  pensive  expression  on  her  face,  then  she  reached  out  with  her  hand  and  " b"pushed  Bonnie's  jaw  closed,  hiding  the  edge  of  white  teeth.  For  an-  other  moment,  she  hesitated,  staring  down  into  the  open  amber  eyes,  then  with  her  fingers  sheclosedthe  eyelids.  It  was  a  musty,  dismal  room.  On  a  dresser  by  the  bed  was  a  photograph  of  a  fami-  ly.  There  was  a  father,  very  dark  and  dressed  in  a  black  suit,  and  Julia  herself,  twenty  years  younger,  in  a  starched  white  dress.  And  three  boys,  rep-  licas  of  the  father,  aged  about  six,  eight,  and  ten,  two  on  Julia's  right  and  one  on  her  left.  Sitting  in  Julia's  lap,  freckled  face  half  submerged  in  lace  ruf-  fles,  was  a  pale  little  girl.  All  the  faces  in  the  picture,  except  that  ofthe  little  girl,  were  stiff  and  blank  with  dignity.  Thin  white  curtains  were  in  the  window  behind  the  dresser,  and  across  from  the  window  on  the  far  wall  was  a  five-and-ten-cent-store  framed  repro-  duction  of  a  painting  of  the  Lord  Jesus,  gazing  into  space  beneath  a  crown  of  thorns,  his  face  gentle  and  kind,  lighted  soft  inhis  own  halo,  the  Son  of  the  Father  of  all  men.  It  was  a  beautiful  picture  for  which  Julia  herself  had  paid  forty-nine  cents.  But  that  was  not  all  the  room  con-  tained,  more  than  Christ  was  there.  Di-  rectly  opposite  the  bed  was  an  illustrated  calendar,  which  depicted  a  can  of  blood-  red  paint  dousing  the  head  ofa  globular,  grinning  face  lettered  in  block  print,  THE  GLOBE.  Below  this  paint-soaked,  Humpty  Dumpty  figure  was  a  familiar  advertising  slogan:  &quot;Covered  With  Ferguson's  Paint.&quot;  Across  from  the  bed,  which  was  iron-shafted  and  very  old,  was  a  tiny  fireplace  and  a  small  black  grate.  A  fire  of  soft  coal  burned  in  the  fireplace,  and  beside  it  stood  a  half-filled  scuttle  and  a  smallblack  poker  and  a  shovel  for  ashes.  Above  the  fire,  on  the  mantelpiece,  was  an  old,  limp,  much  thumbed  copy  of  the  Bible.  There  was  nothing  else  in  the  room,  ex-  cept  the  rocker  on  which  Julia  had  been  sitting,  a  broken  straight  chair  on  the  other  side  of  the  bed,  and  two  candles  on  the  bureau.  Julia  searched  in  the  top  drawer  of   the  dresser,  finally  pulling  from  it  a  pair  of  steel-rimmed  glasses.  These  were  Bonnie's  glasses,  a  pair  Julia  herself  had  once  owned  and  had  given  her  daughter  on  the  occasion  of  her  sixteenth  birthday,  almost  precisely  six  years  before.  They  were  simple  magnifying  glasses  and  had  come  from  the  ten-cent  store,  like  the  colored  portrait  of  Jesus,  but  at  the  far  greater  cost  of  a  dollar  and  seventy-nine  cents,  self-fitten  by  trial  and  error  at  the  counter.  Julia  slipped  on  the  glasses  and  turned  to  Psalms.  Under  the  light  of  the  candles,  she  read.  S  she  read,  the  sky  outside  remained  black.  There  were  no  stars,  no  moon.  It  was  winter,  and  bitter  freezing  cold.  At  this  hour  before  dawn  it  was  coldest.  The  mud  path  outside  the  house  was  a  white-coated,  bricky  squirm.  Julia  read  three  Psalms  and  laid  the  Bible  on  her  lap  for  a  moment,  the  holy  words  she  had  read  and  another  distant  crow  sounding  together  in  her  ears.  It  was  a  false  crow  ;  the  chicken  was  crow-  ing  for  day,  but  it  wasn't  day.  It  was  a  long  time  till  day.  &quot;Oh,  Lord!&quot;  she  said.  The  meaning  ofthe  Word  came  upon  her  as  she  listened  again.  &quot;Jesus!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;Call  me,  Jesus!  Call  me!  Are  you  here,  Lord?&quot;  There  was  no  answer,  no  sign.  Shoulders  bowed,  Julia  stared  in  a   dimness  at  her  child.  Where  was  Bon-  nie,  where  was  the  place  no  living  per-  son  could  be?  In  God's  heaven  with  angels,  where  the  wolf  shall  dwell  with  the  lamb,  and  all  men  are  brothers,  and  joy  and  peace  is  everywhere?  Julia  nodded;  it  was  true.  But  she  would  sit  on  the  bed  and  look  to  see  if  anything  was  there,  a  message  or  a  sign  ofthe  Word.  The  first  sights  as  her  soul  walked  into  paradise  would  surely  leave  a  mark  behind.  Something  would  be  there,  some  mark  or  sign,  and  if  she  looked  hard  enough  she  could  find  it.  But  there  was  no  sign,  none  she  could  see.  A  dead  child,  that  was  all.  Julia  raised  her  head  and  stared  about  at  the  shadows  of  the  room.  The  candles  were  burning  down,  the  room  was  dark,  but  far  from  somewhere  came  a  light.  The  roosters  had  not  been  altogether  lying,  it  was  the  first  breaking  of  dawn.  In  an  hour,  warm  sunlight  would  fall  across  the  bed  and  on  the  walls,  and  she  would  call  Mrs.  Hillyer  for  money  to  bury  her  girl.  "