 b"THE  village  was  so  small  that  it  found  no  mention  in  any  atlas.  On  the  local  survey  map  it  was  indicated  by  a  tiny  dot.  It  was  called  Kiritam,  which  in  the  Tamil  language  means  &quot;crown&quot;  (preferably  diamond-studded)-a  rather  gorgeous  conception,  readily  explained  by  any  local  enthusiast  convinced  beyond  doubt  that  this  part  of  496e646961  is  the  apex  of  the  world.  In  proof  thereof,  he  could,  until  quite  recently,  point  in  the  direction  of  a  massive  guardian  at  the  portals  of  the  village,  in  the  shape  of  a  horse  molded  out  of  clay,  baked,  burnt,  and  brightly  colored.  'The  horse  reared  his  head  proudly,  prancing,  with  his  forelegs  in  the  air  and  his  tail  looped  up  with  a  flourish.  Beside  the  horse  stood  a  war-  rior  with  scythelike  mustachios,  bulging  eyes,  and  an  aquiline  nose.  The  image-  makers  of  old  had  made  the  eyes  bulge  out  when  they  wished  to  indicate  a  man  of  strength,  just  as  the  beads  around  the  warrior's  neck  were  meant  to  show  his  wealth.  Blobs  of  mud  now,  before  the  ravages  of  sun  and  rain  they  had  had  the  sparkle  of  emerald,  ruby,  and  dia-  mond.  'The  big  horse  looked  mottled,  but  at  one  time  it  was  white  as  a  dhobi-  washed  sheet,  its  back  enveloped  in  a  checkered  brocade  of  pure  red  and  black.  The  lance  in  the  grip  of  the  war-  rior  had  been  covered  with  bands  of  gay  color,  and  the  multicolored  sash  around  his  waist  contrasted  with  every  other  color  in  these  surroundings.  This  statue,  like  scores  of  similar  ones  scattered  along  the  countryside,  was  forgotten  and  un-  noticed,  with  lantana  and  cactus  grow-  ing  around  it.  Even  the  youthful  van-  dals  of  the  village  left  the  statue  alone,  hardly  aware  of  its  existence.  On  this  particular  day,  an  old  man  was  drows-  ing  in  the  shade  of  a  nearby  cactus  and  watching  a  pair  of  goats  graze  in  this  arid  soil;  he  was  waiting  for  the  sight  of  a  green  bus  lumbering  down  the  hill  road  in  the  evening,  which  would  be  the  signal  for  him  to  start  back  home,  and  he  was  disturbed  prematurely  by  the  arrival  of  a  motorist,  who  jammed  on  his  brakes  at  the  sight  of  the  statue,  and  got  out  of  his  car,  and  went  up  to  the  mud  horse.  &quot;Marvellous!&quot;  he  cried,  pacing  slowly  around  the  statue.  His  face  was  sunburned  and  red.  He  wore  a  khaki-colored  shirt  and  shorts.  Noticing  the  old  man's  presence,  he  said  politely  in  English,  &quot;How  do  you  do?&quot;  The  old  man  replied  in  pure  Tamil,  his  only  means  of  communication,  &quot;My  name  is  Muni,  and  the  two  goats  are  mine  and  mine  only;  no  onecan  gain-  say  it,  although  the  village  is  full  of  people  ready  to  slander  a  man.&quot;  The  red-faced  man  rested  his  eyes  for  a  moment  in  the  direction  of  the  goats  and  the  rocks,  took  out  a  ciga-  rette,  and  asked,  &quot;Do  you  smoke?&quot;  &quot;I  never  even  heard  of  it  until  yes-  terday,&quot;  the  old  man  replied  nervously,  guessing  that  he  was  being  questioned  about  a  murder  in  the  neighborhood  by  this  police  officer  from  the  government,  as  his  khaki  dress  indicated.  The  red-faced  man  said,  &quot;I  come  from  New  York.  Have  you  heard  of  it?  Have  you  heard  of  America?&quot;  The  old  man  would  have  understood  the  word  &quot;America&quot;  (though  not  &quot;New  York&quot;)  if  the  name  had  been  pronounced  as  he  knew  it-&quot;Ah  Meh  Rikya&quot;-but  the  red-faced  man  pro-  nounced  it  very  differently,  and  theold  man  did  not  know  what  it  meant.  He  said  respectfully,  &quot;Bad  characters  everywhere  these  days.  'The  cinema  has  spoiled  the  people  and  taught  them  how  to  do  evil  things.  In  these  days  anything  may  happen.&quot;  &quot;I  am  sure  youmust  know  when  this  horse  was  made,&quot;  said  the  red-faced  man,  and  smiled  ingratiatingly.  The  old  man  reacted  to  the  relaxed  atmosphere  by  smiling  himself,  and  pleaded,  &quot;Please  go  away,  sir.  I  know  nothing.  I  promise  I  will  hold  him  for  you  if  I  see  any  bad  character  around,  but  our  village  has  always  had  a  clean  record.  Must  be  the  other  village.&quot;  &quot;Please,  please,  I  will  speak  slowly.  Please  try  to  understand  me,&quot;  the  red-  faced  man  said.  &quot;I  arrived  three  weeks  ago  and  have  travelled  five  thousand  miles  since,  seeing  your  wonderful  country.&quot;  The  old  man  made  indistinct  sounds  in  his  throat  and  shook  his  head.  En-  couraged  by  this,  the  other  went  on  to  explain  at  length,  uttering  each  syl-  lable  with  care  and  deliberation,  what  brought  him  to  this  country,  how  much  he  liked  it,  what  he  did  at  home,  how  he  had  planned  for  years  to  visit  496e646961,  the  dream  of  his  life  and  so  forth-  every  now  and  then  pausing  to  smile  affably.  The  old  man  smiled  back  and  said  nothing,  whereupon  the  red-faced  man  finally  said,  &quot;How  old  are  you?  You  have  such  wonderful  teeth.  Are  they  real?  What's  your  secret?&quot;  The  old  man  knitted  his  brow  and  said  mournfully,  &quot;Sometimes  our  cattle,  " b"too,  are  lost;  but  then  we  go  and  con-  sult  our  astrologer.  He  will  look  at  a  camphor  flame  and  tell  us  in  which  direction  to  search  for  the  lost  ani-  mals....  I  mustgo  home  now.&quot;  And  he  turned  to  go.  The  other  seized  his  shoulder  and  said  earnestly,  &quot;Is  there  no  one-ab-  solutely  no  one-here  to  translate  for  me?&quot;  He  looked  up  and  down  the  road,  which  was  deserted  on  this  hot  afternoon.  A  sudden  gust  of  wind  churned  up  the  dust  and  the  dead  leaves  on  the  roadside  into  a  ghostly  column  and  propelled  it  toward  the  mountain  road.  &quot;Is  this  statue  yours?  Will  you  sell  it  to  me?&quot;  The  old  man  understood  that  the  other  was  referring  to  the  horse.  He  thought  for  a  second  and  said,  &quot;I  was  an  urchin  of  this  height  when  I  heard  my  grandfather  explain  this  horse  and  warrior,  and  my  grandfather  himself  was  of  this  height  when  he  heard  his  grandfather,  whose  grandfather  ...&quot;  Trying  to  indicate  the  antiquity  of  the  statue,  he  got  deeper  and  deeper  into  the  bog  of  reminiscence,  and  then  pulled  himself  out  by  saying,  &quot;But  my  grandfather'sgrandfather's  uncle  had  first-hand  knowledge,  although  I  don't  remember  him.&quot;  &quot;Because  I  really  do  want  this  stat-  ue,&quot;  the  red-faced  man  said,  &quot;I  hope  you  won't  drive  a  hard  bargain.&quot;  &quot;'This  horse,&quot;  theold  man  con-  tinued,  &quot;will  appear  as  the  tenth  avatar  at  the  end  of  the  Yuga.&quot;  The  red-faced  man  nodded.  He  was  familiar  with  the  word  &quot;avatar.&quot;  &quot;At  the  end  of  this  Kali  Yuga,  this  world  will  be  destroyed,  and  all  the  worlds  will  be  destroyed,  and  it  is  then  that  the  Redeemer  will  come,  in  the  form  of  a  horse  called  Kalki,  and  help  the  good  people,  leaving  the  evil  ones  to  perish  in  the  great  deluge.  And  this  horse  will  come  to  life  then,  and  that  is  why  this  is  the  most  sacred  village  in  the  whole  world.&quot;  &quot;I  am  willing  to  pay  any  price  that  is  reasonable-&quot;  This  statement  was  cut  short  by  the  old  man,  who  was  now  lost  in  the  visions  of  various  avatars.  &quot;God  Vishnu  is  the  highest  god,  so  our  pandit  at  the  temple  has  always  told  us,  and  He  has  come  nine  times  before,  whenever  evil-  minded  men  troubled  this  world.&quot;  &quot;But  please  bear  in  mind  that  I  am  not  a  millionaire.&quot;  &quot;'The  first  avatar  was  in  the  shape  of  a  fish,&quot;  the  old  man  said,  and  ex-  plained  the  story  of  how  Vishnu  at  first  took  the  form  of  a  little  fish,  which  grew  bigger  each  hour  and  became  gi-  gantic,  and  supported  on  its  back  the  holy  scriptures,  which  were  about  to  be  lost  in  the  ocean.  Having  launched  on  the  first  avatar,  it  was  inevitable  that  he  should  go  on  with  the  second  one,a  tortoise,  and  the  third,  a  boar  on  whose  tusk  the  world  was  lifted  up  when  it  hadbeen  carried  off  and  hidden  at  the  bottom  of  the  ocean  by  an  extraordinary  vicious  conqueror  of  the  earth.  'T  will  be  my  prob-  lem,  but  I  will  worry  about  that  later.  Tell  me,  will  you  accept  a  hundred  rupees  for  the  horse  only?  Although  I  am  charmed  by  the  mustachioed  sol-  dier,  I  will  have  to  come  next  year  for  him.  No  space  for  him  now.&quot;  &quot;It  is  God  Vishnu  alone  who  saves  " b"mankind  each  time  such  a  thing  has  happened.  He  incarnated  himself  as  Rama,  and  He  alone  could  destroy  Ravana,  the  demon  with  ten  heads  who  shook  all  the  worlds.  Do  you  know  the  story  of  Ramayana?&quot;  &quot;I  have  my  station  wagon,  as  you  see.  I  can  push  the  seat  back  and  take  the  horse  in.  If  you'll  just  lend  me  a  hand  with  it.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  Mahabharata?  Krish-  na  was  the  eighth  avatar  of  Vishnu,  in-  carnated  to  help  the  Five  Brothers  re-  gain  their  kingdom.  When  Krishna  was  a  baby,  he  danced  on  the  thousand-  hooded,  the  giant  serpent,  and  tram-  pled  it  to  death.  ...&quot;  T  this  stage  the  mutual  mystifica-  tion  was  complete.  The  old  man  chattered  away  in  a  spirit  of  balancing  off  the  credits  and  debits  of  conversa-  tional  exchanges,  and  said,  in  order  to  be  on  the  credit  side,  &quot;Oh,  honorable  one,  I  hope  God  has  blessed  you  with  numerous  progeny.  I  say  this  because  you  seem  to  be  a  good  man,  willing  to  stay  beside  an  old  man  and  talk  to  him,  while  all  day  I  have  none  to  talk  to  ex-  cept  when  somebody  stops  to  ask  for  a  piece  of  tobacco.  .  ..  How  many  chil-  dren  have  you?&quot;  &quot;Nothing  ventured,  nothing  gained,&quot;  the  red-faced  man  said  to  himself.  And  then,  &quot;Will  you  takea  hundred  rupees  for  it?&quot;  Which  encouraged  the  other  to  go  into  details.  &quot;How  many  of  your  children  are  boys  and  how  many  girls?  Where  are  they?  Is  your  daughter  married?  Is  it  difficult  to  find  a  son-in-law  in  your  country  also?&quot;  'The  red-faced  man  thrust  his  hand  into  his  pocket  and  brought  forth  his  wallet,  from  which  he  took  a  hundred-  rupee  currency  note.  The  old  man  now  realized  that  some  financial  element  was  entering  their  talk.  He  peered  closely  at  the  currency  note,  the  like  of  which  he  had  never  seen  in  his  life;  he  knew  the  five  and  ten  by  their  colors,  although  always  in  other  people's  hands.  His  own  earn-  ing  at  any  time  was  in  coppers  and  nickels.  What  was  this  man  flourish-  ing  the  note  for?  Perhaps  for  change.  He  laughed  to  himself  at  the  notion  of  anyone's  coming  to  him  to  change  a  thousand-  or  ten-thousand-rupee  note.  He  said  with  a  grin,  &quot;Ask  our  vil-  lage  headman,  who  is  also  a  money-  lender;  he  can  change  even  a  lakh  of  rupees  in  gold  sovereigns  if  you  prefer  it  that  way.  He  thinks  nobody  knows,  but  digthe  floor  of  his  puze  room  and  your  head  willreel  at  the  sight  of  the  hoard.  The  man  disguises  him-self  in  rags  just  to  mislead  the  public.&quot;  &quot;If  that's  not  enough,  I  guess  I  could  go  a  little  higher,&quot;  the  red-faced  man  said.  &quot;You'd  better  talkto  him  yourself,  because  he  goes  mad  at  the  sight  of  me.  Someone  took  away  his  pumpkins  with  the  creeper  and  he  thinks  it  was  me  and  my  goats.  That's  why  I  never  let  my  goats  be  seen  anywhere  near  the  farms,&quot;  the  old  man  said,  with  his  eyes  travelling  to  his  goats  as  they  were  nosing  about,  attempting  to  wrest  nu-  trition  out  of  minute  greenery  peeping  out  of  rock  and  dry  earth.  The  red-faced  man  followed  his  look,  and  decided  it  would  be  a  sound  policy  to  show  an  interest  in  the  old  man's  pets.  He  went  up  to  them  casual-  ly  and  stroked  their  backs.  Now  the  truth  dawned  on  the  old  man.  His  dream  of  a  lifetime  was  about  to  be  realized:  the  red-faced  man  was  making  him  an  offer  for  the  goats.  He  had  reared  them  up  in  the  hope  of  sell-  ing  them  someday  and  with  the  capital  opening  a  small  shop  on  this  very  spot;  under  a  thatched  roof  he  would  spread     BEro  out  a  gunny  sack  and  display  on  it  fried  nuts,  colored  sweets,  and  green  coconut  for  thirsty  and  hungryway-  farers  on  the  highway.  He  needed  for  this  project  a  capital  of  twenty  rupees,  and  he  felt  that  with  some  bargaining  he  could  get  it  now;  they  were  not  prize  animals  worthy  ofa  cattle  show,  but  he  had  spent  his  occasional  savings  to  provide  them  some  fancy  diet  now  and  then,  and  they  did  not  look  too  bad.  Saying,  &quot;It  is  all  for  you,or  you  may  share  it  if  you  have  a  partner,&quot;  the  red-  faced  man  placed  on  the  old  man's  palm  one  hundred  and  twenty  rupees  in  notes.  The  old  man  pointed  at  the  station  wagon.  ''Yes,  of  course,&quot;  said  the  other.  The  old  man  said,  &quot;This  will  be  their  first  ride  in  a  motorcar.  Carry  them  off  afterI  get  out  of  sight;  other-  wise  they  will  never  follow  you  but  only  me,  even  if  I  am  travelling  on  the  path  to  the  Underworld.&quot;  He  laughed  at  his  own  joke,  brought  his  palms  together  in  a  salute,  turned  round,  and  was  off  and  out  of  sight  beyond  a  clump  of  bushes.  The  red-faced  man  looked  at  the  goats  grazing  peacefully  and  then  perched  himself  on  the  pedestal  of  the  horse,  as  the  westerly  sun  touched  off  the  ancient  faded  colors  of  the  statue  with  a  fresh  splendor.  &quot;He  must  be  gone  to  fetch  some  help,&quot;  he  remarked,  and  settled  down  to  wait.  "