 b"HELPLESSLY,  Caroline  Har-  H  ris  found  herself  paired  with  Alice  Smith,  struck  in  the  backs  of  their  knees  by  an  onrushing,  rumbling  chair,  and  hurled  upward.  When  she  had  been  a  child  her  father  would  toss  her  toward  the  ceiling  with  the  same  brutal  swooping  lurch.  Alice  snapped  the  safety  bar,  and  they  were  caged  together.  It  was  degrading  for  both  of  them.  Up  ahead,  Norman  and  Timothy  roosted  smugly,  having,  on  this  first  run  to  the  top,  greedily  seized  the  first  chair.  From  the  rear,  hooded  and  armed  with  spears,  they  were  two  of  a  kind,  Timothy  only  slightly  smaller  than  his  father;  and  this,  too,  she  felt  as  a  desertion,  a  flight  from  her  womb.  While  she  was  dragged  through  the  air,  joggled  at  each  pier,  the  whiteness  of  the  snow  pressed  on  the  underside  of  her  consciousness  with  the  gathering  insistence  of  a  headache.  Her  boots  weighed;  her  feet  felt  cap-  tive.  Rigid  with  irritation  and  a  desire  not  to  sway,  she  smoked  her  next-to-  last  cigarette,  which  was  cheated  of  taste  by  the  cold,  and  tried  to  decide  if  the  silent  woman  beside  her  were  sleep-  ing  with  Norman  or  not.  This  morning,  as  they  drove  north  into  New  Hampshire,  there  had  been  in  the  automobile  an  excessive  ease,  as  if  the  four  of  them  knew  each  other  better  than  Caroline  remembered  reason  for.  'There  had  been,  between  Alice  and  [ml  Norman,  a  lack  of  flirtation  a  shade  too  resolute,  while  on  sleepy,  innocent  Timmy  the  woman  had  inflicted  a  curi-  ously  fervent  playfulness,  as  if  warm  messages  for  the  father  were  being  forwarded  through  the  son,  or  as  if  Alice  were  seeking  to  establish  herself  as  a  sexual  nonentity,  a  kind  of  brother-  ly  sister.  Mrs.  Harris  felt  an  ominous  tug  in  this  trip.  Had  she  merely  imag-  ined,  during  their  breakfast  at  Howard  Johnson's,  a  poignance  in  the  pauses,  and  a  stir  of  something,  like  toes  touch-  ing,  under  the  table?  And  was  she  paranoid  to  have  felt  this  morning  a  deliberate  design  in  the  pattern  of  al-  ternation  that  had  her  and  her  son  floundering  up  the  'T-bartogether  as  the  other  two  expertly  skimmed  down  the  slope  and  waited,  side  by  side,  laugh-  ing  vapor,  at  the  end  of  the  long  and  devious  line?  Caroline  was  not  reas-  sured,  when  they  all  rejoined  at  lunch,  by  Alice's  smile,  faintly  flavored  with  a  sweetness  unspecified  in  the  recipe.  Alice  had  been  her  friend  first.  She  had  moved  to  their  neighborhood  a  year  ago,  a  touching  little  divorc\xc3\xa9e  with  pre-school  twins,  utterly  lost.  Her  only  interest  seemed  to  be  sports,  and  her  mari-  tal  grief  had  given  her  an  awkward  hardness,  as  if  from  too  much  exer-  cise.  Norman  had  called  her  pathetic  and  sexless.  Yet  a  winter  later  he  res-  cued  his  skis  from  a  decade  in  the  attic,  enrolled  Timmy  in  local  lessons,  and  somehow  guided  his  wife  in  the  same  dangerous  direction,  as  irresistibly  as  this  cable  was  pulling  them  skyward.  They  were  giddily  lifted  above  the  tops  of  the  pines.  Caroline,  to  brace  her  voice  against  her  rising  fear,  spoke  aloud:  &quot;'This  is  ridiculous.  At  my  age  Tahitian  women  are  grandmothers.&quot;  Alice  said  seriously,  &quot;I  think  you  do  terribly  well.  You're  a  natural  dancer,  and  it  shows.&quot;  Caroline  could  not  hate  her.  She  was  as  helpless  as  herself,  and  there  was  some  timid  loyalty,  perhaps,  in  Norman's  betraying  her  with  a  woman  she  had  befriended.  She  felt,  indeed,  less  betrayed  than  diluted  and,  turning  with  her  cigarette  cupped  against  the  wind,  she  squinted  at  the  girl  as  if  into  an  unfair  mirror.  Alice  was  small-boned  yet  coarse;  muscularity,  reaching  up-  ward  through  the  prominent  tendons  of  her  slender  throat,  gave  her  face,  even  through  the  flush  of  windburn,  a  taut,  sallow  tinge.  Her  hair,  secured  by  a  scarlet  ear-warmer,  was  abundant  but  mousy,  and  her  eyes  were  close-set,  hazel,  and  vaguely,  stubbornly  inward.  But  between  her  insignificant  nose  and  receding  chin  there  lay,  as  if  in  ambush,  a  large,  complicated,  and  (Caroline  sup-  posed)  passionate  mouth.  This,  she  real-  ized,  as  the  chair  swayed  sickeningly,  was  exactly  what  Norman  would  want:  a  mouse  with  a  mouth.  Disgust,  disgust  and  anger,  swung  through  her.  How  greedy  men  were!  How  conceited  and  heedless!  'The  sky  enlarged  around  her,  as  if  to  receive  the  immensity  of  her  condemnation.  With  deft  haste  Alice  undid  the  safety  bar;  Caroline  involuntarily  transposed  the  action  into  an  undoing  of  Norman's  clothes.  Icy  with  contempt  for  her  situation,  she  floated  onto  the  unloading  platform  and  discovered,  slipping  down  the  alarming  little  ramp,  that  her  knees  were  trembling  and  had  forgotten  how  to  bend.  Of  course,  they  were  abandoned.  The  men  had  gone  ahead,  and  beck-  oned,  tiny  and  black,  from  the  end  ofa  tunnel  tigerishly  striped  with  the  blue  shadows  of  birches.  On  whis  pering  skis  held  effortlessly  parallel,  Alice  led,  while  Caroline  followed,  clumsily  struggling  against  the  im-  pulse  to  stem.  'They  arrived  where  the  men  had  been  and  found  them  gone  again.  In  their  place  was  a  post  with  two  signs.  One  pointed  right  to  GREASED  LIGHTNING  (EXPERT).  The  other  pointed  left  to  THE  LIGHTNING  BUG  (INTERMEDIATE-NOVICE).  &quot;I  see  them,&quot;  Alice  said,  and  lightly  poled  offto  the  right.  &quot;Wait,&quot;  Caroline  begged.  " b"Alice  christied  to  a  stop.  A  long  lavender  shadow  from  a  mass  of  pines  covered  her  and  for  a  painful  instant,  as  her  lithe  body  inquisi-  tively  straightened,  she  seemed  beautiful.  &quot;How  expert  is  it?!&quot;  The  Harrises  had  nev-  er  been  to  this  moun-  tain  before;  Alice  had  been  several  times.  Car-  oline  envisioned  her  surrounded  by  tan  and  goggled  men,  and  ab-  ruptly  saw  her  own  in-  eptitude  at  skiing  to  be  a  function  of  her  fail-  ure  to  be  divorced.  She  glimpsed,  in  the  cor-  ner  of  her  eye,  like  a  gleam  flowing  obliquely  through  a  door  left  ajar,  a  peculiar  possibil-  ity  of  freedom.  &quot;'There's  one  mo-  gully  piece  you  can  sideslip,&quot;  Alice  said.  &quot;The  Bug  will  take  you  around  the  other  side  of  the  mountain.  You'll  never  catch  the  men.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  follow  them  and  I'll  go  down  the  novice  trail?  I  don't  trust  this  mountain  yet.&quot;  It  was  a  strange  mountain,  one  of  the  lesser  Presidentials,  rather  recently  developed,  with  an  unvarnished  cafeteria  and  very  young  boys  patrolling  the  trails  in  na-  ively  bright  jackets  striped  in  yellow  and  green.  At  lunch,  Norman  said  he  twice  had  seen  members  of  the  ski  patrol  fall  down.  His  harsh  laugh,  re-  membered  at  this  bare  altitude,  fright  ened  her.  The  trembling  in  her  knees  would  not  subside,  and  her  fingertips  were  stinging  in  their  mittens.  Alice  crisply  sidestepped  back  up  to  her.  &quot;Let's  both  go  down  the  Bug,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  shouldn't  ski  alone.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  be  a  sissy,&quot;  Caro-  line  said,  and  these  careless  words  ap-  parently  triggered  some  inward  chain  of  reflection  in  the  other  woman,  for  Alice's  face  clouded,  and  it  was  certain  that  she  was  sleeping  with  Norman.  Ev-  erything,  every  tilt  of  circumstance,  every  smothered  swell  and  deliberate  contraindication,  confirmed  it,  even  the  girl's  very  name,  Smith-a  nothing-  name,  a  prostitute's  alias.  Her  hazel  eyes,  careful  in  the  glareof  the  snow,  flickeringly  searched  Caroline's  and  her  expressive  mouth  froze,  it  seemed,  on  the  verge  of  a  crucial  question.  &quot;'Track!&quot;  The  voice  was  behind  them,  shrill  and  young.  A  teen-age  girl,  wearing  a  polka-dot  purple  parka,  and  her  mother,  a  woman  almost  elderly,  who  looked  as  if  she  had  rouged  the  tip  of  her  nose,  turned  beside  them  and  casually  plunged  over  the  lip  of  Greased  Light-  ning.  Caroline,  shamed,  said,  &quot;The  hell  with  it.  The  worst  I  can  do  is  get  killed,&quot;  Murderously  stabbing  the  snow,  she  pushed  offto  the  right,  her  weight  flung  wildly  back,  her  uphill  ski  snag-  ging,  her  whole  body  burning  with  the  confirmation  of  her  suspicions.  She  would  leave  Norman.  Unsteady  as  a  flame  she  flickered  down  the  height,  wavering  in  her  own  wind.  Alice  care-  fully  passed  her  and,  taking  long  trav-  erses  and  diagrammatically  slow  turns,  seemed  to  be  inviting  her  not  to  destroy  herself.  Submitting  to  the  sight,  permit-  ting  her  eyes  toinfect  her  body  with  Alice's  rhythm,  she  found  the  snow  yielding  to  her  as  if  under  the  pressure  of  reason;  and,  swooping  in  comple-  mentary  zigzags,  the  two  women  de-  scended  a  long  white  waterfall  linked  as  if  by  love.  Then  there  was  a  lazy  flat  run  in  the  shadow  of  reddish  rocks  bearded  with  icicles,  then  another  descent,  through  cataracts  of  moguls,  into  an  immense  elbow-shaped  stage  overlooking,  from  the  height  of  a  mile,  a  toy  lodge,  a  tessellated  parking  lot,  and,  vast  and  dim  as  a  foreign  nation,  a  frozen  lake  mottled  with  cloud  shadows  and  islands  of  evergreen.  Tensely  sideslip-  ping,  Caroline  saw,  on  the  edge  of  this  stage,  at  one  side  of  the  track,  some  trouble,  a  heap  of  dark  cloth.  In  her  haste  to  be  with  the  men,  Alice  would  have  swept  by,  butCaroline  snowplowed  to  a  halt.  With  a  dancing  waggle  Alice  swerved  and  pulled  even.  The  heap  of  cloth  was  the  woman  with  the  red-tipped  nose,  who  lay  on  her  back,  her  head  downhill.  Her  daughter  knelt  beside  her.  The  woman's  throat  was  curved  as  if  she  were  gargling,  and  her  hood  was  submerged  in  snow,  so  that  her  face  showed  like  a  face  in  a  casket.  EFFICIENTLY,  Alice  bent,  released  her  bindings,  and  walked  to  the  accident.  The  prints  of  her  boots  in  the  snow  were  each  perfect  intaglios.  &quot;Is  she  conscious?&quot;  she  asked.  \\  &quot;It's  the  left,&quot;  the  casket-face  said,  not  altering  its  rapt  relation  with  the  sky.  The  dab  of  red  was  the  only  color  not  drained  from  it.  Tears  trickled  from  the  corner  of  one  eye  into  a  fringe  of  sandy  hair.  &quot;Do  you  think  it's  broken?&quot;  There  was  no  answer,  and  the  girl  impatiently  prompted,  &quot;Mother,  does  it  feel  broken?&quot;  &quot;I  can't  feel  anything.  Take  off  the  boot.&quot;  &quot;I  don'tthink  we  should  take  off  the  boot,&quot;  Alice  said.  She  surveyed  the  woman's  legs  with  a  physical  forth-  rightness  that  struck  Caroline  as  un-  pleasant.  &quot;It  might  disturb  the  align-  ment.  It  might  be  a  spiral.  Did  you  feel  anything  give?&quot;  The  impact  of  the  spill  had  popped  both  safety  bindings,  so  the  woman's  skis  were  attached  to  her  feet  only  by  the  breakaway  straps.  Alice  " b"stooped  and  unclipped  these,  and  stood  the  skis  upright  in  the  snow,  as  a  signal.  She  said,  &quot;We  should  get  help.&quot;  The  daughter  looked  up  hopefully.  The  face  inside  her  polka-dot  parka  was  round  and  young,  and  a  secondary  face,  the  angular  face  of  a  woman,  had  been  stencilled  over  its  features.  &quot;If  you're  willing  to  stay,&quot;  she  said,&quot;I'll  go.  I  know  some  of  the  boys  in  the  patrol.&quot;  \xc2\xabWe'll  be  happy  to  stay,&quot;  Caroline  said  firmly.  She  was  conscious,as  she  said  it,  of  frustrating  Alice  and  ofde-  claring,  in  the  necessary  war  between  them,  her  weapons  to  be  compassion  and  patience.  She  wished  she  could  re-  move  her  skis,  for  their  presence  on  her  feet  held  her  a  little  aloof;  but  she  was  not  sure  she  could  put  them  back  on  at  this  slant,  in  the  middle  of  nowhere.  The  snow  here  had  the  same  eerie  unvisited  air  of  grass  beside  a  highway.  The  daughter,  without  a  backward  glance,  easily  snapped  herself  into  her  skis  and  whipped  away,  down  the  hill.  Seeing  how  easy  it  had  been,  Caroline  unfastened  hers  and  went  and  stood  beside  Alice.  Her  own  boots  also  made  exquisite  prints,  total  and  sharp.  Alice  looked  at  her  wristwatch.  The  hurt  woman  moaned.  Caroline  asked,  &quot;Are  you  warm  enough?  Would  you  like  to  be  wrapped  in  something?&quot;  The  lack  of  an  an-  swer  left  them  no  choice  but  to  remove  their  parkas  and  wrap  her  in  them;  her  body  felt  like  an  oversize  doll  sadly  in  need  of  stuffing.  Caroline,  bending  low,  satisfied  herself  that  what  looked  like  paint  was  a  little  pinnacle  of  sun-  burn.  The  woman  murmured  her  thanks.  &quot;My  second  day  here,  I've  ruined  it  for  everybody-my  daughter,  my  son  ..  .&quot;  Alice  asked,  &quot;Where  is  your  son?&quot;  &quot;Who  knows?  I  bring  him  here  and  don't  see  him  from  morning  to  night.  He  sayshe's  skiing,  but  I  ski  every  trail  and  never  see  him.&quot;  &quot;Where  is  your  husband?&quot;  Caroline  asked;  her  voice  sounded  lost  in  the  acoustic  depth  of  the  freezing  air.  The  woman  sighed,  &quot;Not  here.&quot;  Silence  followed,  a  silence  in  which  wisps  of  wind  began  to  decorate  the  snow-laden  branches  of  pines  with  out-  flowing  feathers  of  powder.  The  dense  blue  shadow  thrown  by  the  woods  grew  heavy,  and  cold  pressed  through  the  chinks  of  Caroline's  sweater.  Alice's  thin  neck  strained  as  she  gazed  up  at  the  vacant  ridge  forhelp.  The  smoth-  eredsobbing  made  a  trickling  under-  current.  At  last,  Caroline  thought  to  ask,  &quot;Would  you  like  a  cigarette?&quot;  The  body  sat  right  up.  &quot;I'd  adore  a  weed.&quot;  The  woman  pulled  off  her  mit-  ten,  and  hungrily  twiddled  her  fingers.  Her  nails  were  garishly  polished.  She  did  not  seem  to  notice,  in  taking  the  cigarette,  that  the  pack  became  empty.  Gesturing  with  stabbing  exhalations  of  smoke,  she  became  chatty.  &quot;I  say  to  my  son,  'What's  the  point  of  coming  to  these  beautiful  mountains  if  all  you  do  is  rush,rush,  rush,  up  the  tow  and  down,  and  never  stop  to  enjoy  the  scen-  ery?&quot;  I  say  to  him,  'I'd  rather  be  old-  fashioned  and  come  down  the  moun-  tain  in  one  piece  than  have  my  neck  broken  at  the  age  of  fourteen.  If  he  saw  me  now,  he'd  have  a  fit  laughing.  There's  a  patch  of  ice  up  there  and  my     skis  crossed.  When  I  went  over,  I  could  feel  my  left  side  pull  from  my  shoulders  to  my  toes.  It  reminded  me  of  having  a  baby.&quot;  &quot;Where  are  you  from?&quot;  Alice  asked.  &quot;Melrose.&quot;  The  name  of  her  town  seemed  to  make  the  woman  morose.  Her  eyes  focussed  on  her  inert  boot.  To  distract  her,  Caroline  asked,  &quot;And  your  husband's  working?&quot;  &quot;We're  separated.  I  know  if  I  could  loosen  the  laces  it  would  be  a  world  of  relief,  My  ankle  wants  to  swell  and  it  can't.&quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  trust  it,&quot;  Alice  said.  &quot;Let  me  at  least  undo  the  knot,&quot;  Caroline  offered,  and  dropped  to  her  knees  as  if  to  weep.She  did  not  as  a  rule  like  self-pitying  women,  but  here  in  this  one  she  seemed  to  confront  a  vol-  untary  dramatization  of  her  own  inner  grief  and  sprain.  She  freed  the  knots  of  both  the  outer  and  inner  laces-the  boot  was  a  new  Nordica,  and  stiff.  &quot;Does  that  feel  better?&quot;  &quot;I  honestly  can't  say.  I  have  no  feel-  ing  below  my  knee  whatsoever.&quot;  &quot;Shock,&quot;  Alice  said.  &quot;Nature's  an-  esthetic.&quot;  &quot;My  husband  will  be  furious.  He'll  have  to  hire  a  maid  for  me.&quot;  " b"&quot;You'll  have  your  daugh-  ter,&quot;  Caroline  said.  &quot;At  her  age,  it's  all  boys,  boys  on  the  brain.&quot;  This  seemed  to  sum  up  their  universe  of  misfortune.  Noth-  ing  was  left  to  say.  In  silence,  dark  as  widows  against  the  tilted  acres  of  white,  they  wait-  ed  for  rescue.  The  trail  here  was  so  wide  skiers  could  pass  on  the  far  side  without  spotting  them.  A  few  swooped  close,  then  veered  away,  as  if  sensing  a  curse.  One  man,  wearing  steel-framed  spectacles  and  a  raccoon  coat,  and  smoking  a  cigar,  waved  to  them  and  shouted  in  what  seemed  a  foreign  language.  But  the  pat-  tern  of  the  afternoon  (the  sun  had  shifted  away  from  the  trail)  yielded  few  skiers.  Empty  intervalsof  minutes  went  by.  The  bitterly  cold  air  had  found  every  loose  stitch  in  Caroline's  sweater  and  now  was  concen-  trating  on  the  metal  bits  of  brassiere  that  touched  her  skin.  &quot;Could  I  bum  another  coffin  nail?&quot;  the  injured  woman  asked.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  that  was  my  last.&quot;  &quot;Oh  limit?&quot;  Alice,  so  sallow  now  she  seemed  Oriental,  tucked  her  hands  into  her  armpits  and  jiggled  up  and  down.  She  asked,  &quot;Won't  the  men  worry?&quot;  Caroline  took  satisfaction  in  telling  her,  &quot;Idoubt  it.&quot;  Looking  outward,  she  saw  only  white,  a  tilted  rippled  wealth  of  colorlessness.  Her  private  loneliness  she  now  felt  in  communion  with  the  other  two  women;  they  were  all  three  abandoned,  cut  off  in  this  pe-  numbral  world,  wounded,  unwarmed,  too  impotent  even  to  whimper.  A  vein  of  haze  in  the  sky  passingly  dimmed  the  sunlight.  When  it  brightened  again,  a  tiny  upright  figure,  male,  in  green  and  yellow  stripes,  stood  at  the  top  of  the  cataracts  of  moguls.  'That  took  eighteen  minutes,&quot;  Alice  said,  consulting  her  wristwatch  again.  Caroline  suddenly  wondered  if  such  a  finicking  tomboy  could  be  seriously  loved.  The  woman  in  the  snow  asked,  &quot;Does  my  hair  look  awful?&quot;  Down,  down  the  tiny  figure  came,  enlarging,  dipping  from  crest  to  crest,  dragging  a  sled,  a  bit  clumsily,  between  its  legs.  Then,  hitting  perhaps  the  same  patch  of  ice,  the  figure  tipped,  tripped,  and  became  a  dark  star,  spread-eagled,  dear.  Isn't  that  the  a  cloud  of  powder  from  which  pro-  truded,  with  electric  rapidity,  frag-  ments  of  ski,  sled,  and  arm.  This  ex-  plosive  somersault  continued  to  the  base  of  the  precipitous  section,  where  the  fragments  reassembled  and  lay  still.  The  women  had  watched  with  held  breaths.  How  they  yearned  for  that  limp  puppet  to  become  erect!  Obedi-  ently,  it  did.  The  boy  (he  was  close  enough  now  to  be  aboy,  with  lanky  legs  in  swankishly  tight  jeans)  scissored  his  skis  above  his  head  (a  miracle,  they  had  not  popped  off  ),  hopped  to  his  feet,  jerkily  sidestepped  a  few  yards  uphill  to  retrieve  his  hat  (an  Alpine  of  green  felt,  with  ornamental  feathers),  and  skated  toward  them,  drenched  with  snow,  dragging  the  sled  and  grinning.  &quot;''That  was  a  real  eggbeater,&quot;  Alice  told  him.  &quot;Who's  hurt?&quot;  he  asked.  His  red  ears  protruded  and  his  face  swirled  with  freckles;  he  was  so  plainly  de-  lighted  to  be  himself,  so  clearly  some-  body's  son,  that  Caroline  felt  herself  share,  by  a  kind  of  parturition,  his  ab-  surd  pride.  And  as  if  with  this  clown  there  en-  tered  into  vacuity  a  fertilizing  principle,  more  members  of  the  ski  patrol  sprang  from  the  snow,  bearing  from  several  directions  blankets  and  bandages  and  brandy,  so  that  Caroline  and  Alice  were  pushed  aside,  as  it  were,  from  themselves.  They  retrieved  their  parkas,  refastened  their  skis,  and  tamely  com-  pleted  their  run  to  the  foot  of  the  mountain.  There,  Timmy  and  Nor-  man,  looking  worried,  were  waiting  be-  side  the  lift  shed.  Her  momentum  fail-  ing,  Mrs.  Harris  actually  skated-what  she  had  never  managed  to  do  before,  lifted  her  skis  in  the  smooth  alternation  of  skating-in  her  haste  to  assure  her  husband  of  his  essential  innocence. "