 b"MY  eldest  sister,  Anne,  died  in  July,  1938,  the  year  after  we  moved  out  of  the  West  Vir-  f  ginia  city  where  my  family  had  always  lived  to  a  brand-new  suburb  a  few  miles  __|  away.  My  mother  mourned  her,  not  in  _|  the  elaborate  Italian  way  of  our  older  _|  relatives,  who  still  lived  in  the  city,  but  -|  simply,  quietly,  and  endlessly.It  was  as  '  though  she  were  doling  out  her  grief  for  a  recipe  that  had  no  measures.  We  kids-my  two  sisters  and  I-were  mys-  tified  by  this.  We  know  now  that  Moth-  A  |er  was  trying  to  strike  some  balance  %  )  between  theold  customs  that  she  had  A  |  known  as  a  girl  and  the  way  things  were  done  in  our  new  neighborhood.  But  then  M|  we  were  familiar  only  with  the  extremes:  the  calm,  coldly  efficient  ways  of  &quot;_|  the  neighbors  and  the  warmly  florid customs  of  Mother's  relatives  and  f  .,  friends.  We  preferred  the  new  ways  to  the  old,  to  put  it  mildly,  but  if  the  old  ways  had  been  forced  on  us,  if  all  the  re-  strictions  of  an  Italianate  mourning  had  been  brought  down  on  us,  we  would  have  gone  along.  We  could  accept  yes  or  no,  black  or  white,  all  or  nothing,  but  Mother's  attempt  at  compromise  we  could  not  understand.  Anne's  funeral  itself,  though,  made  sense  to  us.  There  was  nothing  compro-  mised  about  it.  Those  who  wore  black  wore  it  relentlessly;  those  who  cried  cried  openly.  The  coffee  was  thicker  than  I  had  ever  seen  it,  and  the  pot  nev-  er  stopped  perking  on  the  stove.  Gifts  of  food  were  so  plentiful  that  my  uncles  carried  bushel  baskets  up  from  the  cellar  to  hold  it  all,  and  the  food  was  of  the  most  indulgent  kind-syrupy  fruit,  obese  cheeses  and  salamis,  and  countless  pack-  ages  of  cookies.  It  was  months  be-  fore  we  had  eaten  everything  up.  When  the  funeral  was  over,  when  all  those  strangers  went  back  to  the  city,  we  kids  thought  it  was  over  for  good.  But  it  wasn't.  The  old  friends  of  Mother's  family  kept  coming  back.  All  through  the  summer  and  fall,  now  that  they  knew  where  we  lived,  they  kept  coming  back.  Mostly  it  was  the  widows-&quot;the  black  widows,&quot;  Father  called  them,  for  they  spun  out  their  time  courting  death.  Some  had  known  Mother  as  a  girl,  and  these  came  frequently.  Lena  Torre  was  one  of  the  visitors  I  remember  vividly.  She  had  a  son,  Cor-  rado,  who  interested  me  because  he  was  in  college  on  a  football  scholarship,  but  all  she  talked  of  was  herself  and  how  she  had  lost  a  kidney.  &quot;One  kidney!&quot;  she  would  bawl  out  at  Mother,  using  a  finger  for  emphasis.  &quot;One  to  go,  Bea,&quot;  86  she  would  say,  rolling  her  eyes.  She  felt  a  mystical  connection  with  my  sister  Anne,  who  had  died  of  nephritis,  and  she  hinted  darkly  that  now  that  Anne  was  dead  her  own  number  might  be  coming  up.  Butnobody  worried  about  Lena's  health.  She  was  a  tough,  wiry  wom-  an-  &quot;Built  like  a  coil  spring,&quot;  Father  said.  And  she  kept  bouncing  in  when  we  least  expected  her.  The  visitors  annoyed  Father  and  con-  fused  Mother.  They  reminded  Father  too  much  of  his  own  childhood;  they  were  full  of  advice  about  how  Mother  should  conduct  herself  during  the  mourning  period.  It  was  hard  for  her  to  decide  how  strict  to  be.  &quot;Respect  the  dead,&quot;  she  would  say,  making  some  small  adjustment  in  our  activity.  On  Thanksgiving  she  prepared  a  roast  in-  stead  of  a  turkey,  and  on  Christmas  she  and  Father  left  the  tree  undecorated  and  presented  us  with  one  toy  each.  [REDACTED]  and  Nora,  my  sisters,  were  given  dolls.  My  gift  was  a  mechanical  toy-  a  brilliant  orange  auto  on  a  green  run-  way.  A  little  shove  would  send  it  down  a  ramp,  frantically  around  a  circular  track,  and  into  a  lift  mechanism  that  raised  it  and  tumbled  it  end  over  end  onto  the  ramp  again.  There  was  noth-  ing  to  wind;  the  momentum  of  the  auto  triggered  the  lift.  With  a  small  assist  from  menow  and  then,  the  auto  would  run  on  and  on.  NTER  Christmas  Mass  (I  remem-  ber),  I  count  the  number  of  times  the  auto  makes  the  rounds  without  need-  ing  a  good  push  from  me.  Twenty  times,  I  count,  but  if  I  slant  the  toy  at  the  right  moment,  even  more.  All  through  lunch,  I  keep  the  auto  going  beside  my  chair,  and  afterward,  experi-  menting,  I  place  marbles  and  pencils  in  its  path  to  derail  it.  But  how  long  can  you  play  with  a  mechanical  toy?  My  sisters  hug,  dress,  and  undress  their  dolls;  they  pretend  to  feed  them  and  burp  them  and  put  them  to  nap.  My  auto  needs  nothing  from  me.  I  set  it  on  a  table  in  the  hallway,  and  with  a  little  attention  from  my  sisters  it  keeps  on  going.  When  Father  comes  up  from  the  cel-  lar,  where  he  is  taking  advantage  of  his  day  off  to  thread  pipes  for  a  shower,  he  stands  by  the  table  and  laughs.  &quot;That  damn  thing!&quot;  he  shouts.  &quot;Hey,  Bea,  you  got  to  look.&quot;  Mother  comes  in  from  the  kitchen  with  a  good  hold  on  a  saucepan.  She  dis-  trusts  mechanical  things,  calling  any-  thing  that  runs  a  &quot;machine.&quot;  ~  Father  presses  his  broad  thumb  down  " b"on  the  roof  of  the  auto  and  pushes  it  off.  It  goes  for  him  just  the  way  it  goes  for  me.  And  though  I  have  promised  my-  self  never  to  complain,  though  I  am  too  big  to  cry,  I  watch  it  roll  and  think  how  little  it  needs  from  me.  &quot;Hey-hey!&quot;  Father  shouts.  &quot;Look,  look  how  she  makes  the  bend.&quot;  I  look  at  the  back  of  his  hands,  matted  with  oil  and  hair.  Now  he  will  get  it  dirty;  I  hate  the  toy  but  I  want  it  to  stay  clean.  I  want  Father  to  leave  it  alone,  to  keep  it  fresh  for  an  exchange,  maybe,  but  then  I  think  that  the  store  will  not  take  it  back  and  I  break  into  tears.  &quot;Sh-h-h,&quot;  Mother  says,  setting  down  the  saucepan  on  the  umbrella  stand  in  the  hall.  She  puts  a  cool  hand  on  my  back  and  pats  me  down  the  hall  into  our  old  dining  room.  We  have  two  din-  ing  rooms  in  our  house,  one  with  old,  heavy  furniture-Italianate  wedding  furniture-and  the  other  with  new  mahogany-stained  furniture  purchased  from  Sears,  Roebuck.  The  new  room  is  usually  forbidden  to  us  kids,  but  now  Mother  leads  me  from  the  old  to  the  new,  for  that  is  where  we  have  set  up  the  tree.  Seeing  the  tree,  devoid  of  or-  naments  as  it  is,  only  sets  me  off  again.  &quot;Listen,  Joe,  listen,&quot;  Mother  says,  comforting  me.  &quot;We  have  the  tree-  look  at  the  tree.  Is  it  so  bad?  ..  .  Is  it  so  bad?&quot;  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  my  sister  [REDACTED]  says.  She  and  Nora  have  followed  us  down  with  my  toy.  &quot;Yesssss.&quot;  They  are  ganging  up  on  me,  and  I  protest.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  Mother  says,  running  her  hand  over  my  hair.  &quot;Let's  look  at  the  machine,  O.K.?  I  really  never  looked  at  that.&quot;  I  carry  it  toher,  my  eyes  on  the  quivering  car,  balancing  the  toy  carefully,  like  a  bowl  of  soup.  Mother  sits  down  in  the  captain's  chair  at  the  head  of  the  table  and  takes  the  toy  in  her  lap;  her  ringed  finger  hovers  over  it,  and  it  becomes  something  enormous  in  her  lap.  She  stares  down  at  the  toy,  her  eyes  wide  and  frightened,  her  brows  up.  &quot;It  needs  something  flat,&quot;  she  says,  gingerly  lifting  it  to  the  table.  But  the  track  tilts  in  her  hands  and  spills  the  auto  down  the  ramp.  &quot;Gees-zoy!&quot;  she  shouts,  setting  the  toy  down  roughly.  Around  the  auto  goes,  up  it  goes,  down  it  goes.  &quot;Listen,  listen,&quot;  Mother  says,  run-  ning  her  hand  through  her  hair,  packing  the  sides,  tickling  the  bun.  Her  eyes  roll  up,  signalling  another  story  out  of  her  childhood.  &quot;I  was  seven-seven'-  just  like  you,  Joe,  when  my  father,  your  own  grandfather,  died,  too.  You  know,  I  told  you  of  the  accident  on  the  farm?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  say,  but  wanting  to  hear  again  of  my  grandfather's  meeting" b"With the   &quot;machine,&quot;  with  the  train.  &quot;Well  now,  he  was  always  good  to  me,  and  when  he  was  kill-died,  I  nev-  er  forgot  him  in  my  prayers.  Never  once.  Well,  one  night  I  had  a  dream.  He  came  to  me,  all  dressed  up.  Just  looked  like  him,  too-but  fat,  a  little  fat  |I  and  healthy,  the  best  I  ever  saw  him.  'Down  in  the  cellar,  Beattina'-he  called  me  that-'down  in  the  cellar,  in  the  overalls  pocket.  ...  I  went  down  there,  like  he  said  to,  and  there,  rolled  up-nobody  would  of  found  it-stuck  down  in  the  pencil  holeof  the  pocket,  was  the  April  receipt  for  the  mortgage  installment.&quot;  Mother's  eyes  grow  round,  and  I  know  that  a  mortgage  installment  is  im-  mense.  &quot;You  lost  your  house,  your  farm,  if  you  don't  keep  up  the  payments  and  have  the  receipts.  It's  your  proof.  So  I  didn't  ask  questions;  I  went  down  to  the  cellar  and  found  the  April  receipt.&quot;  Mother  stares  hard  at  me,  making  a  straight  line  with  her  mouth.  To  one  side  of  her  dark  head,  her  father  and  {}{[]  mother  stare  down  from  twin  oval  frames  of  blackened  mahogany.  I  am  not  so  sure  I  would  like  it  if  my  grand-  father  came  to  me,  if  a  man  with  his  mustaches  bent  his  face  down  over  me.  &quot;'You  remember  the  dead,&quot;  my  mother  says,  still  staring  straight  at  me.  &quot;You  do  good  to  them,  and  they  do  good  to  you.&quot;  &quot;But  could  they  hurt  you,  Ma?&quot;  I  ask.  &quot;Could  dead  people  hurt  you?&quot;  I  am  thinking  of  my  grandmother,  in  the  picture  on  the  wall.  She  has  not  been  dead  for  long.  I  knew  my  grandmother  only  slightly;  when  I  was  six,  we  made  the  trip  to  the  old  town  twice  to  see  her.  I  never  realized  she  was  near  death  then.  I  cannot  imagine  what  I  thought  she  was  doing  in  that  great  white  bed  framed  in  heavy  black  wood.  I  remem-  ber  kissing  her  on  her  hard,  dry  mouth,  not  understanding  how  she  could  kiss  and  not  smile  after  the  kiss.  &quot;Come,  make  up  to  her,&quot;  I  remember  my  uncle  saying  to  Mother  as  I  was  pulled  away  from  the  bed,  and  I  still  see  the  swollen  face  of  Mother  moving  past  me.  But  now  that  Grandma  is  dead,  I  cannot  im-  agine  her  coming  to  me  as  she  is  pic-  tured-stern-faced,  palely  tinted,  and  oddly  blurred,  like  someone  who  never  lived  at  all.  &quot;Would  Grandma  hurt  me,  would  Anne  hurt  me?&quot;  I  say.  No-  body-and  I  know  it-ever  mentions  Anne's  name.  Mother  sits  back.  She  presses  her  hand  to  her  throat  and  swallows.  &quot;I  didn't  mean  to  put  it  in  the  way  they  would  hurt  you.  You  know  Anne  wouldn't  hurt  you.  I  mean,  you  do" b"the  wrong  thing  in  your  thoughts  and  you  worry  yourself.&quot;  It  was  true;  I  could  not  imagine  my  sister  Anne  hurting  me.  Even  before  her  death  she  was  a  nebulous  thing,  and  now  I  had  only  a  shadowy  picture  of  her  in  my  mind.  Tall  and  slender,  she  would  pad  through  the  house  in  flannel  white,  disappearing  for  long  spells  be-  hind  her  door  and  mysteriously  reap-  pearing  again.  She  painted  watercolor  picture  stories  on  the  back  of  wallpaper  scraps  cut  into  folios,  which  she  then  bound  with  yarn  into  books;  this  she  did  in  bed,  accompanied  by  a  faint,  white  radio,  always  tuned  in,  it  seemed,  to  Glenn  Miller  or  Jack  Benny.  At  rare  times,  she  would  come  down  to  the  kitchen  when  we  were  away  from  the  house,  leaving  us  a  plate  of  rock  candy  that  she  had  made,  as  fragile  and  pale  as  she  was.  No,  Anne  wouldn't  hurt  me,  but  I  would  have  preferred  Mother  saying  that  ghosts  did  walk  and  did  hurt  people.  Safe  at  home,  with  Mother  there,  with  the  sentinel  Christmas  tree,  with  Father  downstairs  at  the  workbench,  with  my  sisters  watching  my  every  move,  I  would  have  preferred  the  more  exciting  possi-  bility.  I  would  have  liked  to  be  scared.  MOTHER  has  told  us  that  no  one,  not  even  relatives,  will  come  on  Christmas  Day.  It  would  be  unseemly  for  the  relatives  to  come;  one  glass  of  wine  would  lead  to  two-it  is  Christ-  mas,  is  it  not?  And  two?  Where  would  two  lead?  No,  they  would  not  come.  But  later  in  the  afternoon  Lena  Torre  and  her  son  Corrado  drive  up  in  ablack  Oldsmobile  sedan.  I  see  them  parking  the  car  and  run  out  on  the  porch  to  meet  them.  They  puff  up  our  front  steps,  sending  vapor  into  the  sharp  air.  &quot;Hey-hey,  hello,&quot;  Corrado  huffs,  and  his  mother,  solid  in  black,  chugs  up  hoarsely  behind  him.  &quot;Sh-h-h,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;They  are  in  mourning.&quot;  Cor-  rado  puts  his  hand  over  his  baby  mouth  so  that  his  gloved  fingers  press  into  the  crescent-shaped  scar  on  his  cheekbone.  It  is  a  football  scar,  a  year  old,  but  super-  ficial  (everyone  says),  and  it  will  fade  away.  Just  the  same,  I  tilt  my  head  to  see  if  it  has  faded,  and  then  I  open  the  front  door  and  lead  them  in.  Lena  and  Mother  embrace,  coming  out  of  it  with  Lena's  mantilla  snarled  in  Mother's  side  bobby  pin.  They  fumble  and  laugh  until  Corrado  shouts,  &quot;Look  out!&quot;  and  takes  over.  He  is  in  engineer-  ing  and  he  takes  over.  &quot;Hold  still,&quot;  he  says  crossly,  forcing  Lena  and  Mother  to  attention.  While  Corrado  untangles  them,  they  make  fish  faces  at  one  an-  other.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  says  finally,  resting" b"back  on  one  foot  like  a  dressmaker,  and  they  pull  away.  Mother  asks  how  Lena's  back  is,  and  Father  asks  Corrado  if  the  college  girls  are  O.K.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  theyboth  say  together.  &quot;O.K.&quot;  Nora  lifts  up  her  doll's  dress  and  looks  at  its  backside,  and  [REDACTED]  peers  under  her  doll's  dress  from  below.  &quot;For  Christmas?&quot;  Lena  asks,  looking  at  the  dolls,  looking  at  Mother.  Mother  turns  her  hands,  palms  up,  apol-  ogetically.  I  show  Corrado  my  new  auto.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  he  says  to  me,  &quot;Big  Detroit!&quot;  I  place  the  toy  on  the  floor  in  front  of  his  yellow  shoes  and  show  him  how  it  works.  When  it  finally  slows  down,  when  the  lift  spring  dies  and  drops  the  auto  back,  the  hall  fills  up  with  a  heavy  stillness.  Corrado  looks  from  Mother  to  Father,  bobbing  his  head.  &quot;It's  like  life,&quot;  Corrado  says  sadly,  meaning  to  give  us  sympathy.  &quot;It  goes  and  it  goes,&quot;  Lena  moans,  crossing  her  breast,  tilting,  catch-  ing  wind,  and  finally,  in  full  gale,  letting  go.  Nora,  frightened  by  Lena's  wailing,  dashes  down  the  hallway,  skidding  on  a  throw  rug  in  front  of  the  cellar  door.  Father  backs  away,  half  turning,  and  I  think  he  is  going  to  run,  too.  &quot;Hey,  Corrado,  come  look  at  my  shower,&quot;  he  says,  and  he  raises  a  quivering  thumb  to  his  mouth,  meaning  that  they  will  have  wine.  &quot;Just  one,&quot;  Corrado  says,  for  he  is  in  training  still,  and  the  two  men  take  shelter  in  the  cellar.  Mother  leads  Lena  into  our  new  din-  ing  room  and  pats  her  down  into  the  captain's  chair.  Lena  rests  her  face  in  a  white  handkerchief.  There  are  pierced  holes  in  her  ears,  and  I  think  there  is  some  connection  between  these  and  the  fact  that  she  has  one  kidney.  I  sit  under  the  Christmas  tree  staring  up  at  her.  In  the  light  from  the  drawn  window  blind,  her  skin  is  yeHowish,  like  the  figures  in  the  picture  above  the  living-room  sofa.  The  mother  in  the  picture  holds  a  white  handkerchief  in  her  hand  like  Lena;  she  is  crying  because  her  baby  is  sick.  There  is  also  the  father,  his  arm  around  the  mother.  I  think  that  maybe  I  should  get  up  and  put  my  arm  around  Lena's  shoulders,  but  there  is  a  small  run  in  her  stocking,  and  the  heels  on  her  patent-  leather  shoes  are  so  unevenly  worn  that  her  feet  lean  away  from  each  other.  I  cannot  put  my  arm  around  someone  whose  feet  lean  away  from  each  other.  Mother  brings  Lena  a  large  glass  of  water  for  her  kidney,  and  they  have  coffee  and  anise  waffles.  I  stay  down  on  the  floor  in  front  of  the  tree,  pretending  to  play  with  my  auto.  &quot;So  you  have  a  tree,&quot;  Lena  says  to  Mother.  Yes,&quot;  Mother  says  defensively." b"Lena  rolls  her  eyes  to  the  ceiling.  &quot;It's  taking  chances,  Bea.&quot;  &quot;Look,  Lena-for  the  kids.  And  the  neighbors,  they  would  laugh  here  if  I  didn't  have  a  tree;  they  think  I'm  old-  fashioned  enough.&quot;  &quot;The  neighbors,&quot;  Lena  says,  raising  her  head  and  turning  it  slowly  in  the  di-  rection  of  the  window,  smelling  them  out.  I  sniff  the  air,  but  get  only  the  scent  of  fir  and  coffee.  Mother  draws  herself  up.  &quot;Listen,  Lena,  When  my  mother-my  own  mother-died,  I  wore  black  fora  year,  and  don't  think  I  wasn't  a  little  laugh,  ingstock.  My  own  mother!&quot;  &quot;Ha!&quot;  Lena  says,  sniffing  again.  &quot;Turks!  Mamelukes!&quot;  Mother  shrugs.  &quot;Are  we  so  right?  It's  enough  to  go  through  it,  but  this  show,  this  outside  show  ...  It's  respect-they  say  that,  yes--but  I  ask  myself  that.&quot;  &quot;It's  respect!&quot;  Lena  repeats  fiercely.  She  makes  a  gesture  withher  hands  that  makes  me  think  respect  is  softly  inflated,  like  a  beach  ball.  &quot;You  have  respect,  Bea,  You're  like  me  that  way.&quot;  Mother  sips  from  her  coffee  cup,  star-  ing  at  Lena  to  see  how  much  alike  they  are.  I  try  to  shape  Mother's  soft,  oval  face  into  Lena's  black  and  beaky  profile.  &quot;Lena,&quot;  Mother  says  at  last,  and  she  whispers.  &quot;Lena,  Ma  used  to  braid  my  hair  tight-like  this.&quot;  I  look  up  at  Mother's  face.  She  is  gripping  her  hair  so  tightly  at  the  bun  that  her  eyebrows  and  eyes  point  up  like  Anna  May  Wong's.  &quot;Every  morning  she  would  put  it  that  way.  She  wanted  me  home,  Lena,  doing  for  the  boarders,  not  in  the  schoolhouse.  See,  Da  was  late  going  to  work  one  day,  and  here  is  Ma  pulling  my  hair,  fix-  ing  it  for  school  -she  hated  fixing  '  it  for  school-and  Da  comes  in.  He  sees  this  ...and,  Lena,  he-shook!  'Giovanna,'  he  said,  'Gi-o-vanna,  nev-  er  do  I  want  to  see  the  hand  in  her  hair-never  again.  Use  a  comb-a  comh!-no  hands,  a  comb!  &quot;  Mother  makes  a  slicing  motion  into  the  lace  tablecloth.  &quot;And  when  Da  died,  Lena,  that  was  the  finish  of  school  for  me.  It  was  the  farm,  day  and  night,  night  and  day,  waiting  on  boarders.&quot;  Mother  adds  softly,  &quot;Lena,  is  that  the  life  to  respect?&quot;  Lena's  mouth  puckers  out  to  meet  the  tumbler,  but  then  she  withdraws.  &quot;Bea,&quot;  she  says,  and  I  fear  another  explosion.  \xe2\x80\x9cYCSP,\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;This  water-delicious!  Is  it  fresh  or  tap?&quot;  FTER  Lena  and  Corrado  leave,  Mother  says,  &quot;Well,  now  I'll  get  something  done.&quot;  She  comes,  arms " b"akimbo,  into  the  new  dining  room,  but  there  is  nothing  to  do.  She  stands  by  the  tree  for  a  moment,  staring  up  at  the  spire.  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  she  says  finally.  &quot;Let's  put  the  jingle  bells  on.&quot;  &quot;Now?&quot;  Father  says.  &quot;Let's!&quot;  we  shout.  &quot;Not  me,&quot;  he  says,  but  he  carries  the  dusty  boxes  up  from  the  cellar,  and  after  Mother  shucks  each  wrapped  ornament-suspiciously,  like  an  ear  of  corn-he  is  back  on  hand  to  screw  the  lights  into  working  order.  While  [REDACTED]  and  Nora  unravel  tinsel,  I  tie  black  thread  to  hooks.  I  thread  them  all-  dirty  glass  grapes,  a  faded  dwarf  [REDACTED],  a  brilliant  blue  trombone  (the  mouth-  piece  is  shattered,  but  I  string  it  up  by  the  slide),  balls  that  are  halved  and  caved  in,  a  peeled  upright  bear  with  a  potbelly  andno  sex,  and  a  high-heeled  slipper,  its  glaze  so  worn  that  a  ring  of  rainbow  glass  shows  through  at  the  heel.  [REDACTED]  and  Nora  choose  the  new  balls  first,  and  the  rest,  the  old  ones  I  have  threaded,  sit  abandoned.  I  won-  der  if  the  tree  is  too  small  to  accom-  modate  the  leftovers,  but  in  the  end  they  are  bunched  into  the  lower  limbs,  for  neither  can  Mother  bear  to  pack  them  away.  As  my  sisters  set  up  the  Nativity  scene,  Father  backs  away  and  frames  his  hands.  &quot;Hey-hey,&quot;  he  says,  peering  through.  &quot;That's  the  preeee-tiest  tree  we  ever  had.&quot;  But  we  all  know  it  is  not;  it  is  the  smallest  and  most  hurriedly  put  together  tree  we  ever  had.  Andnow  that  it  is  finished,  weighted  as  it  is  with  orna-  ments  in  the  bottom  branches,  it  looks  all  wrong.  There  is  nothing  under  it  but  the  Nativity  scene,  and  nothing  is  tobe  put  under  it.  Tomorrow  will  be  the  day  after  Christmas,  and  the  tree  stands,  like  a  cheated  bride,  waiting  for  nothing.  &quot;The  lights,&quot;  Father  says,  and  he  plugs  them  in.  But  it  is  still  daylight  outside,  fading  the  tree  lights  into  cheap  pastels.  Father  gathers  up  the  empty  boxes,  carrying  them  out  into  theold  dining  room.  We  follow  after,  hovering  around  the  table,  watching  him  stack  the  boxes  on  the  window  seat.  My  Christmas  toy  sits  motionless  on  the  table.  When  Father  turns  around,  he  idly  reachesout  and  gives  the  auto  a  tap.  It  rolls  down  the  incline,  picking  up  speed  as  it  makes  the  curve.  Around  it  goes,  down  it  goes  and  up-and  then,  more  slowly,  down  it  goes  again.  When  the  lift  barely  hoists  it  up  for  the  last  time,  Nora,  [REDACTED],  and  I  reach  out,  but  Mother  leans  across  from  the  other  side  of  the  table.  Her  hand  is  up,  and  she  wants  to  push  it  next."