 b"SINCE  the  building  they  were  liv-  ing  in  was  turning  cooperative  and  they  did  not  want  to  buy,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Barnes  had  to  move,  and  for  months  they  hunted  for  a  new  apartment,  visiting  everything  they  heard  of  that  sounded  at  all  suitable  to  their  pocketbook  and  their  quiet,  rather  old-fashioned  tastes.  'They  looked  at  conventional  apartment  houses  and  re-  modelled  brownstones  in  half  a  dozen  sections  of  the  city.  To  no  avail.  Then,  one  evening,  Mr.  Barnes  brought  home  a  prospectus.  &quot;Of  course,  it's  the  sort  of  place  we've  always  said  we'd  never  live  in,&quot;  he  said,  apologetically,  &quot;but  the  location's  nice-uptown  near  the  river.&quot;  Mrs.  Barnes  looked  at  the  picture  on  the  folder  and  made  a  face.  It  showed  a  great  white  skyscraper,  fes-  tooned  with  balconies.  &quot;It  looks  like  an  open  refrigerator  with  the  ice  trays  pulled  halfway  out,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  walls  are  said  to  be  a  little  more  soundproof  than  most,&quot;  said  Mr.  Barnes.  &quot;Apparently  that's  the  way  you  judge  the  new  places.&quot;  HE  building,  the  Barneses  found  when  they  arrived,  was  still  un-  finished,  but  in  the  renting  office-a  furnished  suite  of  ground-floor  rooms  entered  from  a  labyrinth  of  corridors  crowded  with  workmen  and  smelling  of  wet  plaster-they  were  made  wel-  come  and  assigned  a  &quot;representative,&quot;  a  pleasant-seeming  young  man  who  told  them  his  name  was  Hapgood,  &quot;but  call  me  Hap,  like  everybody  else  does.&quot;  The  building,  Hap  told  them,  would  contain  almost  eight  hundred  apart-  ments-&quot;every  conceivable  type  of  lay-  out&quot;-and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Barnes  spent  some  time  looking  at  floor  plans  before  setting  out  with  him  into  the  vast  ant-  hill.  The  apartment  that  had  seemed  most  suitable,  judging  from  the  plans,  was  a  two-bedroom  affair  on  a  high  floor,  and  when  they  reached  it  Hap  expounded  not  only  on  its  particular  ad-  vantages-its  spaciousness,  its  light,  and  its  views  over  [REDACTED]  and  the  river-but  also  the  excellences  it  shared  with  all  the  other  apartments  in  the  building.  &quot;Security!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;There's  a  double  lock  on  every  door.  Our  armed  guards  patrol  every  floor,  every  hall,  day  and  night.  And  here,&quot;  he  said,  pointing  to  a  small  button  in  the  doorjamb  that  the  Barneses  might  not  have  noticed,  &quot;is  the  ultimate  in  peace  of  mind.  When  you  go  away  on  a  trip,  just  press  this.  And  you'll  know,  " b"while  you're  enjoying  your  holiday,  that  should  anyone  gain  access  to  your  apartment  despite  the  double  lock  end  the  patrol,  this  button  will  release  an  alarm  downstairs  that  will  bring  armed  guards  up  immediately.  It's  our  way  of  assuring  you  a  carefree  vacation.&quot;  The  Barneses,  who  had  never  lived  in  a  building  sufficiently  modern  to  boast  an  incinerator,  were  startled  to  learn  that  incinerators  were  now  be-  ginning  to  be  pass\xc3\xa9.  &quot;Not  an  incinerator  in  the  building!&quot;  Hap  told  them.  &quot;No  smell  of  burning,  no  back  draft  of  flames  or  ash  in  your  face  when  you  open  the  door  of  the  chute.  With  us,  after  the  trash  goes  down,  it  is  carried  on  a  conveyor  belt  to  a  pulverizer,  and  then  it  is  removed  in  our  own  sanitary  dump  trucks.  So  far,  we  are  the  only  private  apartment  house  in  the  city  that  pulverizes  its  trash.&quot;  Hap  permitted  himself  some  drollery  as  he  showed  them  the  model  furnished  apartments,  of  which  the  company  was  obviously  proud  but  concerning  which  he  was  sophisticated  enough  to  admit  differences  of  opinion.  &quot;The  possibili-  ties  of  dressing  up  these  units  are  posi-  tively-shall  we  say-uncanny?&quot;  he  said,  with  the  suggestion  of  a  smile.  (They  were  viewing  a  particularly  gaudy  ensemble  that  seemed  to  Mrs.  Barnes  like  the  collective  brain  child  of  furniture  designers  and  decorators  from  another  planet.)  &quot;Just  give  your  dec-  orator  his  head  and-you  see  the  re-  sult.&quot;  They  saw  the  several  roof  gardens,  on  different  levels,  decorated  with  stat-  ues  imported  from  4974616c79;  they  saw,  in  the  basement,  the  automatic  coffee  and  sandwich  dispensers  for  house  staff  and  maids  and  the  sauna  bath  for  tenants;  and  then  Hap  said  that  since  construc-  tion  activities  had  obliged  the  Barneses  to  enter  the  building  through  a  side  door,  he  wanted  to  showthem  where  the  main  lobby  was  to  be.  Retracing  the  way  they  had  come  along  the  plas-  ter-smelling  corridors,  walking  at  times  on  gangplanks  of  sagging  boards,  they  " b"made  several  turns  and  emerged  in  a  large  space  whose  surface  was  littered  with  lumber,  paint  cans,  and  miscel-  laneous  jetsam.  &quot;Of  course,  it's  far  from  finished,&quot;  Hap  began,  &quot;but  I  think  your  imagination  won't  find  it  hard  to  picture  how  imposing  the  vault-  ed  ceiling  will  be.  Notice  the  portion  already  completed,  over  there  in  the  corner.  There  will  be  several  Vene-  tian  chandeliers.  The  floor  will  be  of  waxed-&quot;  Mrs.  Barnes  gave  a  little  scream.  &quot;Look!&quot;  she  cried,  pointing  toward  the  corner  that  Hap  had  indicated.  Mr.  Barnes  looked.  He  saw  a  rat,  a  large  black  one,  under  a  plaster-  smeared  wheelbarrow,  nibbling  at something  among  the  debris  As  he  looked,  it  scuttled  away.  &quot;-waxed  black  concrete,  marked  off  into  squares  by  insets  of-&quot;  &quot;I  saw  a  rat,  Frank!&quot;  &quot;Did  you,  dear?  I  missed  it.&quot;  Mr.  Barnes  was  an  old  hand  at  playing  down  rats  and  mice  whenever  glimpsed  in  Mrs.  Barnes'  company.  Sometimes  they  cooperated  by  not  showing  them-  selves  a  second  time.  Hap  (who,  Mr.  Barnes  decided  later,  had  really  seen  nothing)  allowed  himself  an  interpolation-indeed,  a  contradiction~slightly  patronizing  in  tone.  &quot;'The  site  was  given  a  complete  deep  fumigation  before  construction  even  began.  The  possibility  of  rodents  is  very  remote,  more  remote  than  any-  where  else  in  the  city.  Now,  we  plan  to  have  several  large  Oriental  carpets  ..  .&quot;  But  Mrs.  Barnes,  her  husband  knew  from  the  expression  on  her  face,  was  no  longer  listening  to  Hap.  She  was  watch-  ing  the  corner.  &quot;Back  here,&quot;  Hap  was  saying,  &quot;at  this  other  end  of  the  lobby,  we've  ar-  ranged  to  have  an  exotic  garden  de-  signed  by  a  famous  landscape  architect  that  will  be  out  of  this-&quot;  &quot;''There!&quot;  cried  Mrs.  &quot;Look!&quot;  Under  the  wheelbarrow,  the  rat  was  nibbling  again.  &quot;We  ask  you  to  picture  the  rich  ef-  fect,  especially  at  night,  of  the  light  from  the  chandeliers  on  the  Oriental  carpets  and  the  exotic  garden-&quot;  &quot;Here  it  comes!&quot;  Mrs.  Barnes  said.  And  indeed,  as  though  attracted  by  the  gorgeous  prospect  that  Hap  was  paint-  ing,  the  animal  came  bounding  over  the  rubble,  straight  toward  them.  The  rat  was  of  good  size,  very  black  and  sleek-  looking.  Halfway,  it  stopped.  &quot;Look!  It's  glaring  at  us!&quot;  cried  Mrs.  Barnes,  and  this  time  her  husband  was  puzzled-puzzled  momentarily-  because  he  recognized  that  her  tone  was" b"one  not  of  terror  but,  rather,  of  tri-  umph,  even  elation.  &quot;Jump  up  here!&quot;  he  said.  There  was  a  large,  hand,  on  which  Mrs.  Barnes  could  take  refuge.  She  usually  made  for  a  high  ||  place  at  such  a  moment.  Hap  picked  up  a  piece  of  loose  plaster  and  flung  it  at  ||  the  rat,  which  went  scurrying,  but  even  before  it  disappeared  Mr.  Barnes  saw  clearly  that  this  time  his  wife  was  not  going  to  give  way.  She  stood  exactly  where  she  had  been  standing,  an  ex-  pression  almost  of  pleasure  on  her  face,  and  when  the  rat  had  vanished  she  looked  inquiringly,  even  indulgently,  at  Hap,  as  though  encouraging  him  to  re-  sume  his  spiel.  Hap  gulped.  &quot;Is  there  anything  else  that  I  can  show  you  folks?&quot;  he  asked,  rather  pitifully.  Mrs.  Barnes  looked  around  her.  &quot;Which  is  the  way  out,  please?&quot;  she  asked.  She  asked  it  as  kindly  as  she  could,  and  Hap  dejectedly  led  them  away,  glancing  at  Mrs.  Barnes  solicit-  ously,  but  hopelessly,  from  time  to  time.  FEW  minutes  later,  the  Barneses  were  in  a  taxi  headed  downtown.  Mrs.  Barnes  had  gone  out  onto  the  sidewalk  first,  and  it  had  taken  Mr.  Barnes  a  little  time  to  extricate  him-  self  from  poor  Hap  and  his  embarrass-  ment  and  apologies.  &quot;I  didn't  have  the  heart,&quot;  Mr.  Barnes  told  his  wife,  &quot;to  tell  him  that  for  once  in  your  life  you  welcomed  the  sight  of  a  rat.  It  did  cut  things  mercifully  short,  didn't  it?  Why  can't  we  arrange  to  have  a  rat  appear  the  next  time,  say,  an  evening  at  some-  body's  house  begins  to  drag?  Nobody  would  blame  us  for  leaving,  any  more  than  Hap  did.&quot;  &quot;Armed  guards!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Barnes,  with  a  shudder.  &quot;Pulverized  trash!  Deep  fumigation!  Why,  you'd  be  tak-  ing  your  life  in  your  hands,  moving  to  such  a  place!  That  brave  little  rat!  That  brave  little  rat!&quot;  "