 b"I  MUST  have  been  a  pest  as  an  un-  dergraduate,  restless  and  complain-  ing  most  of  the  time,  but  there  were  fewer  coeds  than  men  students  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  so  I  had  dates  anyway.  One  of  them  used  to  scold  me  about  my  restlessness.  He  would  say,  &quot;Why  do  you  talk  all  the  time  about  getting  away?  Isn't  Madison  good  enough  for  you?&quot;  &quot;Madison's  all  right,  I  guess,  but  no  one  place  is  good  enough,&quot;  I  would  an-  swer.  &quot;I  want  to  get  around.  I  want  &quot;_  to  see  things.&quot;  &quot;You've  already  been  around  more  than  most  other  girls,&quot;  he  would  _  say,  and  though  the  remark  always  irri-  tated  me,  the  fact  was  incontroverti-  ble.  For  that  year,  1924,  and  considering  my  Middle  [REDACTED]  origin  and  surround-  ings,  I  was  an  experienced  traveller.  I  :  had  spent  my  childhood  in  St.  Louis,  and  I  had  been  to  [REDACTED],  where  my  4  family  lived  now,  and  to  [REDACTED]  as  well  asto  [REDACTED].  On  one  occasion,  I  had  penetrated  [REDACTED]  for  a  winter-  |  sports  festival.  And  yet,  for  all  this  rich  -  background,  I  was  unsatisfied.  &quot;If  other  _|  girls  are  happy  with  the  [REDACTED]  x,  [REDACTED],  that's  their  af-  fair,&quot;  I  once  told  my  critical  friend.  &quot;I  want  to  go  farther  afield.  Even  you  hiked  all  the  year.&quot;  It  was  a  foregone  conclusion  that  he  would  retort  that  it  was  different  for  a  man,  yet  when  he  did  say  it  I  was  ruffled,  and  remained  so  until  I  got  home  and  told  Jane,  my  sympathetic  room-  mate,  about  it.  She  agreed  that  men  were  the  absolute  limit.  Then  we  took  an-  other  of  our  innumerable  soothing  looks  at  the  atlas,  and  talked  once  again  about  our  projected  tour  of  the  district  of  43616e616461Kivu,  in  the  Belgian  [REDACTED].  As  I  look  back,  I  see  more  clearly  than  I  did  then.  I  see,  for  example,  that  Jane's  energy  might  perfectly  well  have  been  directed  elsewhere  than  toward  travel  if  I  hadn't  swept  her  into  my  own  designs.  In  the  end,  it  didn't  make  any  difference  to  her.  People  do  what  they  are  inclined  to  do,  no  matter  where  they  are,  but  for  a  while  Idid  affect  her,  though  I  didn't  realize  it  at  the  time.  Indeed,  I  would  have  been  amazed  at     the  idea,  for  she  was  a  strong  charac-  ter;  I  considered  her  the  l  eadin  g  spirit  of  our  partnership,  and  wa  s  quite  con-  tent.  She  was  the  type  of  girl  I  had  alw  ays  admired-enterprising  and  a  th-  letic.  I  have  never  been  athletic.  Her  e  xotic  background  fasc  inated  me;  she  had  come  all  the  way  from  that  un-  known  la  nd  [REDACTED].  Her  father,  a  m  an  of  liberal  ideas,  had  heard  that  Wiscon-  sin  was  politically  enlightened-it  was  well  know  n  that  the  univ  ersity  author-  ities  had  rejected  Rockefeller's  tainted  money  when  it  was  offered  to  them-  and  ha  d  made  u  p  his  mind  to  entrust  his  only  child  to  the  Dairy  State.  As  if  all  this  were  n  ot  romantic  enough,  Jane  had  ac  tually  been  to  New  York.  I  used  to  beg  her  to  describe  the  fabulous  city,  but  she  wasn't  much  of  a  hand  at  that  sort  of  thing;  she  wa  s  better  at  action  than  at  words.  She  could  drive,  she  skated  well,  and  she  had  several  medals  for  swim  ming  and  div  ing.  When  I  had  first  spoken  of  my  am  bition  to  s  ee  the  world,  she  had  quickly  joined  the  proj-  ect.  It  ha  d  been  my  ide  a  that  our  first  practical  step  should  be  getting  deg  rees  as  geo  logists,  &quot;If  we  were  geologists,  we  c  ould  go  just  about  any  wh  ere,&quot;  I  expla  in  ed.  &quot;Some  ge-  ology  graduates  have  gone  to  [REDACTED]  Amer-  ica,  and  I've  heard  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns  prospecting  i  n  R  ussia  and  the  Nea  r  [REDACTED],  and  anywhere  yo  u  can  name.  So  we'd  be  tter  major  in  ge-  olog  y.&quot;  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  said  Jane,  in  her  amiable  way,  and  we  sig  ne  d  up.  I  wa  s  not  alway  s  the  one  with  the  ideas,  however.  It  was  Jane  who  tho  ught  of  43616e616461Kivu,  during  a  lecture  on  geography.  Afterward,  she  p  ointe  d  it  o  ut  to  me  on  the  map,  saying,  &quot;If  we  could  get  ourselves  sent  here  ,  it  would  be  marvellous.  Just  look-all  that  water.  We  could  swim  every  day.&quot;  The  lake  did  l  ook  inviting,  even  on  som  ething  as  impersonal  as  a  map,  but  I  was  cautious  and  practical,  and  spoke  of  crocodiles.  &quot;'That's  exactly  why  I  chose  Kivu  instead  of  some  other  lake,&quot;  Jane  said.  &quot;Look  at  the  text.  It  says  the  water's  too  cold  there,  by  three  degrees,  for  crocodiles.  What's  more,  Kivu  has  a  white  man's  climate,  and  possibly  the  surrounding  hills  contain  deposits  of     " b"gold  and  silver.  What  more  do  you  want?&quot;  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  I  admitted.  &quot;It  sounds  perfect.  We'll  go  to  Kivu.&quot;  IT  had  been  a  relief,  all  along,  to  have  that  much  settled  and  out  of  the  way.  On  the  other  hand,  though  we  knew  exactly  where  we  were  going,  the  years  of  training  stretched  out  wearily  ahead  of  us.  All  around  us,  in  the  spring  of  1924,  we  saw  lucky  young  men  planning  the  summer  adventures  open  to  their  sex.  Some  boys  had  jobs  as  chauffeurs,  some  were  going  to  work  their  way  to  Europe  on  cattle  boats,  and  a  few  declared  their  intention  of  hitchhiking  across  the  country.  It  was  exasperating.  I  made  suggestions.  &quot;No,  we  certainly  can't  ride  the  rails,  or  hitchhike,  either,&quot;  Jane  said  impatient,  ly.  &quot;Be  your  age.  What  would  your  father  and  mother  do  if  you  tried  that?  I  tell  you  what  we  might  do,  though.  If  we  had  a  car,  we  could  drive  out  to  see  my  uncle  in  Albuquerque,  That's  in  New  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  had  not  thought  of  anything  like  that,  though  the  motorcar  was  already  an  important  part  of  life  in  [REDACTED].  A  few  students  owned  cars  of  one  kind  or  another,  Stutz  Bearcats  being  the  most  admired,  but  they  were  considered  short-haul  vehicles  for  the  most  part.  Roads  generally  wereunpaved  and  risky,  motels  had  not  yet  been  invented,  and  most  people  who  made  long  trips  overland  went  by  train.  So  I  realized  that  Jane  had  suggested  an  adventure  of  respectable  proportions.  The  [REDACTED]!  It  was  not  the  Belgian  [REDACTED],  but  I  had  entertained  romantic  thoughts  of  it  ever  since  my  father  had  brought  me,  as  a  souvenir  of  [REDACTED]  Springs,  a  paperweight  that  contained  under  glass  a  little  mineral  collection  (iron  pyrites,  or  fool's  gold;  native  copper;  calcite).  Besides,  there  might  be  the  sea,  for  Jane  went  on  to  propose  that  we  con-  tinue  west,  after  visiting  her  uncle,  to  the  coast  of  [REDACTED].  The  Pacific  would  not  be  too  much  of  a  revelation  to  her;  she  had  looked  on  the  Atlantic.  But  for  landlocked  me  it  was  the  big-  gest  attraction  of  all.  The  Model  T  Ford  that  we  decided  on  was  not  considered  expensive  by  sophisticates,  but  I  believe  Jane's  par-  ents  bore  the  brunt  of  its  cost,  pointing  out  to  my  parents  by  letter  that  she  was  their  only  child,  whereas  I  was  one  of  six.  For  the  rest  of  what  the  trip  was  to  cost,  I  had  some  money  put  away,  and  my  father  and  mother,  figuring  that  I  wasn't  going  to  be  an  expense  otherwise  that  summer,  gave  me  some  more.  The  Model  T  arrived,  splendid-" b"ly  black  and  shiny,  sitting  high  on  spin-  dly  wheels,  and  we  rode  in  it  all  around  Madison  and  the  gentle,  glaciated  hills  of  the  countryside,  past  grazing  cows  and  farmhouses,  while  Jane  taught  me  to  drive.  Driving  a  Model  T  was  sim-  ple.  You  pushed  a  pedal  halfway  in  to  disengage  the  clutch,  and  used  the  same  pedal  hard  for  braking.  Later,  we  took  the  car  to  a  garage  for  a  major  operation  designed  to  let  us  dispense  with  most  of  the  cumber-  some  camping  gear  used  by  other  tour-  ists.  We  had  the  back  support  of  the  front  seat  hinged,  with  a  hook  at  each  side  to  keep  it  upright  while  we  drove.  At  night,  we  could  fill  the  well  between  the  front  and  back  seats  with  luggage,  lower  the  hinged  back  on  top  of  it,  and  make  up  a  bed.  If  we  kept  our  feet  still,  so  as  not  to  kick  the  steering  wheel  or  the  other  controls,  the  car  was  long  enough.  Privacy  was  to  be  afforded  by  the  car's  rain  curtains,  of  cloth  and  isin-  glass,  and  we  bought  a  mosquito  net  that  fitted  nicely  over  the  entire  equipage.  SPRING  brought,  as  usual  in  Madi-  son,  the  promise  of  happy  days  by  the  lake  and  moonlit  evenings  in  canoes,  but  I  was  deaf  to  the  promise.  I  didn't  smell  the  flowers  and  the  new-mown  grass.  Already,  in  my  mind,  I  was  out  of  Madison,  driving  toward  the  sunset.  I  can't  remember  whether  or  not  I  went  to  the  prom.  IfI  had  any  dates  at  all,  they  didn't  make  much  impression,  and,  naturally,  I  paid  even  less  atten-  tion  to  Jane's  social  activities  As  a  consequence,  I  was  surprised  by  what  took  place  on  the  morning  we  set  out.  We  were  moving  everything  out  of  our  room  and  into  the  car.  Belongings  we  didn't  need  to  take  were  to  be  left  in  [REDACTED],  at  my  house,  so  to  begin  with  we  would  be  overloaded,  and  the  pack-  ing  was  a  big  job.  I  welcomed  the  help,  therefore,  of  two  of  our  friends-Ter-  ry,  who  was  Jane's  property,  and  an  occasional  date  of  mine  called  Will.  The  four  of  us  worked  for  a  while,  and  then  it  dawned  on  me  that  Terry  was  very  much  all  over  the  place,  bustling  and  anxious.  Will's  help  was  not  nearly  as  intensive.  There  was  something  so  proprietary  in  Terry's  behavior  that  I  wondered  why  Jane  didn't  slap  him  down,  but  she  didn't.  Even  when  he  criticized  our  arrangement  of  the  load-  ing,  she  accepted  it  in  astonishingly  meek  fashion.  When  he  said,  &quot;That  big  bag  is  better  in  the  middle,&quot;  and  moved  it  accordingly,  she  merely  thanked  him.  The  next  thing  I  knew,  the  two  of  them  had  their  heads  together  over  our  driv-  ing  map  and  Terry  was  laying  down  the  law.  We  must  never  tackle  ques-" b"tionable  roads  except  in  broad  daylight,  he  said  firmly,  and  Jane  nodded,  as  if  in  gratitude.  I  said,  &quot;Come  on,  Jane.  We've  got  to  go.&quot;  Will  whispered  fiercely,  &quot;Leave  them  alone,  can't  you?&quot;  So!  I  bit  back  my  next  words  and  waited.  Terry  was  telling  Jane,  evi-  dently  not  for  the  first  time,  that  he  would  certainly  write  to  her  at  St.  Louis  to  start  with,  and  then  he  would  get  a  letter  to  her  in  a  town  at  what  he  estimated  would  be  two  days'  drive  west  of  there.  He  had  a  list,  it  seemed,  of  post  offices  all  the  way  along  the  road,  and  Jane  brought  out  a  companion  list  of  her  own  to  show  him.  Now,  however,  even  Jane  realized  that  it  was  time  to  leave.  She  and  Terry  kissed  each  other,  and  Will  immedi-  ately,  in  loyal  imitation,  kissed  me.  I  accepted  the  gesture,  though  we  both  knew  it  was  hogwash.  With  Jane  at  the  wheel,  we  left  the  boys  and,  way-  ing,  drove  down  the  street.  It  was  as  well  that  I  wasn't  driving.  Dark  thoughts,  fears  for  the  future,  distracted  my  attention  from  the  solemn  moment.  I  reflected  that  I  might  have  to  revise  my  hopes  of  Jane  as  a  companion  for  later  tours.  She  did  not  seem  to  be  made  of  stern  enough  stuff  ever  to  get  to  43616e616461Kivu.  Then  I  cheered  up.  After  all,  any  girl  had  a  right  to  correspond  with  people,  and  we  would  be  gone  for  weeks.  ANE  and  I  had  agreed  that  the  next  few  days  were  bound  to  be  a  trial,  because  of  relatives,  and  they  were.  Not  only  was  my  family  in  [REDACTED],  but  Jane's  parents  were  there  as  well.  They  had  come  on  from  [REDACTED]  to  see  us  off.  We  listened  to  a  lot  of  reiterated  coun-  sel  as  we  laid  in  stores  and  repacked-  about  taking  care  of  ourselves,  sending  frequent  telegrams  to  assure  our  fam-  ilies  of  our  safety,  and  never  giving  lifts  to  strangers.  I  hope  we  were  patient  and  polite,  but  I  can't  swear  to  it.  Even  when  [REDACTED]  was  behind  us  and  a  new  road  lay  ahead,  we  knew  we  hadn't  truly  embarked.  I  had  another  large  clutch  of  relatives  to  see  in  St.  Louis.  As  that  city  was  only  a  two  days'  journey  away,  we  didn't  try  out  our  sleeping  arrangements  on  the  way,  in  tame  old  [REDACTED].  We  slept  in  a  cheap  hotel.  But  in  St.  Louis  we  did  use  the  car  bed,  parked  in  an  aunt's  side  yard.  Cousins  and  other  connections  lined  up  to  peer  at  us  lying  inside  the  mosquito  net  and  to  thank  God  they  didn't  have  to  do  it,  And  the  next  morning,  when  we  got  up  at  sunrise,  I  was  almost  sick  with  joy  and  excitement,  tiptoeing  with " b"Jane  into  the  house  to  cook  breakfast.  It  would  be  the  last  time  for  weeks  that  we  would  be  boiling  coffee  and  frying  eggs  in  a  civilized  kitchen.  From  then  on,  the  whole  way  west,  it  was  to  be  virtuous,  healthy  discomfort-at  least  until  we  landed  in  Jane's  uncle's  kitch-  en  in  Albuquerque.  As  the  Ford  left  St.  Louis  behind,  we  both  laughed  very  hard  for  no  reason  and  remarked  what  a  wonderful  day  it  was.  Raining,  but  wonderful.  &quot;Oh,  boy!&quot;  we  said,  several  times.I  was  driving.  The  impression  I  still  have  of  the  countryside  I  saw  that  morning  must  be  exaggerated.  I  have  never  gone  back  to  look  at  the  region  around  that  highway  leading  west,  and  it  would  be  different  now  anyway,  but  even  then  it  couldn't  have  been  as  beautiful  as  I  thought.  Nevertheless,  I  still  think  with  love  of  rich,  wet  color-the  green  of  summer  trees  and  the  dark,  glistening  red  clay  of  the  road  winding  between  them,  distant  blue  hills  across  valleys  that  were  as  simply  verdant  as  if  a  child's  crayon  had  drawn  them.  There  were  cracks  of  lightning  in  the  lowering  sky,  too  far  off  to  be  frightening.  Ob-  viously,  I  have  forgotten  all  about  the  long  dull  stretches,  and  though  the  little  towns  must  have  been  just  like  those  of  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  my  mind  has  re-  tained  no  memory  of  boredom  or  dis-  appointment.  All  was  new  and  new-  washed.  Occasionally  the  rain  stopped  and  we  had  sunlight,  but  the  road  re-  mained  slippery,  and  occasionally  we  skidded.  &quot;We  aren't  making  very  good  time,&quot;  Jane  said,  but  her  tone  was  light-  hearted,  and  she  suddenly  thumped  my  knee  with  her  fist,  saying,  &quot;We've  done  it!  Do  you  realize  that?  We're  on  our  way!&quot;  I  agreed.  &quot;On  our  way,  on  our  own,  on  theroad.  From  now  on,  nobody  knows  us  and  we  don't  know  any-  body.&quot;  You  said  it.  I  get  so  tired  of  being  someone'sdaughter  or  somebody  else's  niece,  don't  you?  Wait,  you're  skid-  ding.  Slow  down.  Slowly,  now.  Not  too  sudden.  Woo!&quot;  I  braked  as  cautiously  as  possible.  The  road  had  taken  us  around  the  corner  of  a  hill  and  almost  into  a  big  mudhole,  but  I  managed  to  steer  the  car  onto  a  sketchily  indicated  track  that  led  around  the  worst  of  it.  Someone  else  had  not  been  so  lucky;  another  car  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  muck,  sunk  to  its  hubcaps.  Sloshing  in  the  water  nearby,  looking  forlorn,  was  the  driver,  carrying  his  shoes  in  one  hand.  Jane  called,  &quot;Do  you  want  a  tow?&quot;  and  the  man  looked  at  us  hopefully  and " b"started  to  reply.  Then  something  hap-  pened;  he  swallowed  the  words  and  stared  at  us.  &quot;Well,  hello  there,&quot;  he  said  at  last.  &quot;I  know  you,  don't  1?&quot;  This  sounded  like  an  old  gambit,  and  Jane  ignored  it,  repeating  testily,  &quot;Do  you  want  a  tow?&quot;  &quot;Not  you,&quot;  the  man  said  to  her.  &quot;You  at  the  wheel.  Aren't  you  one  of  the  Hahn  girls?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  God,  yes,&quot;  I  saidin  disgust.  &quot;Who  are  you?&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  remember?  I  was  en-  gaged  to  your  sister  Dot  last  summer,&quot;  said  the  man  in  the  mudhole.  FOR  quite  a  while  after  we  had  car-  ried  word  of  the  plight  of  my  sister's  ex-fianc\xc3\xa9  to  the  nearest  garage,  Jane  and  I  didn't  have  much  to  say  to  each  other.  Little  or  nothing  was  said  about  getting  away  from  people.  But  by  eve-  ning  our  faith  was  largely  restored,  and  driving  through  [REDACTED]  was  once  more  like  being  the  first  travellers  on  the  moon.  The  sun  began  to  set.  It  was  time  to  look  for  a  tourist  camp,  and  soon  we  saw,  at  the  outskirts  of  a  town,  an  ar-  row,  crudely  lettered  on  a  bit  of  old  plank,  pointing  to  one.  At  that  time,  people  still  behaved  as  if  motoring  was  a  passing  fad;  some  were  willing  to  set  up  services  for  it  in  hit-or-miss  fashion,  but  they  weren't  sticking  out  their  necks.  The  tourist  camp  was  a  field,  surrounded  by  a  low  fence,  with  one  other  car  already  in  occupation.  We  paused  at  the  gate,  locked  by  a  huge  padlock,  and  honked  until  a  boy  in  a  wide-brimmed  straw  hat  came  out  of  a  nearby  house,  collected  a  quarter  from  us,  and  let  us  drive  in.  With  a  bored  wave,  he  indicated  a  pair  of  outhouse  sheds,  and  told  us  that  water  could  be  got  out  of  the  pump  back  of  the  house,  if  we  had  a  bucket.  Of  course  we  had  a  bucket,  we  told  him  haughtily;  we  had  everything.  Ac-  tually,  however,  we  were  not  so  sure  when  we  saw  the  litter  of  things  un-  packed  from  the  other  car.  A  large  family  and  a  dog  were  busywith  all  the  gear.  Suitcases,  crates,  and  odd  bits  of  furniture  had  been  unloaded,  and  now  the  family  was  making  camp.  &quot;They  must  have  left  their  house  empty,&quot;  Jane  said.  Already  a  tepee  had  been  set  up,  and  now  the  father  and  some  children  were  stretching  more  canvas  over  a  frame  attached  to  the  car,  like  a  small  porte-cochere,  while  the  wife  cooked  something  over  a  rusty  portable  stove.  Greetings  were  exchanged.  &quot;How  are  the  roads  your  way?&quot;  asked  Jane,  first  crack  out  of  the  box.  This  open-  ing,  obligatory  in  any  conversation  be- " b"tween  tourists,  had  been  unknown  to  me  until  that  moment,  and  my  admira-  tion  for  Jane  increased.  How  much  she  knew  of  the  world!  The  inevitable  question  soon  followed  from  our  neigh-  bors  (&quot;You  girls  alone?&quot;),  along  with  comments  on  how  worried  our  parents  must  be.  Soon  we  were  deep  in  chat-  that  time-consuming,  easygoing,  mean-  ingless  talk  with  which  556e6974656420537461746573ns  both  fill  any  void  and  hold  each  other  off.  Our  neighbors  had  not,  after  all,  emptied  their  house  to  fill  their  car,  be-  cause  they  had  no  house.  They.  were  migrant  workers,  who  followed  the  harvest,  zigzagging  across  country  to  catch  the  ripening  crops,  slowly  making  their  way  north  and  south  by  way  of  east  and  west.  All  the  while  we  talked,  we  were  working,  each  at  his  own  camp.  Jane  and  I  wanted  to  make  up  our  bed  be-  fore  dark  and  afterward  stroll  into  town  for  supper,  but  we  were  delayed  by  the  other  party's  friendly  wonder  at  our  arrangements.  It  was  like  having  relatives  around  us  all  over  again.  Still,  we  got  fed  and  we  went  to  bed  remark-  ably  early,  for  after  dark  there  was  nothing  else  to  do.  LL  along,  it  was  that  way.  We  would  go  to  sleep  with  the  sun  and,  as  a  result,  we  got  up  with  the  sun  aswell.  The  first  two  hours  of  driv-  ing  took  us  through  a  deserted  landscape  where  everyone  else,  including  restau-  rant  workers,  still  lay  in  bed.  Though  snappish  with  hunger,  we  never  quar-  relled.  Jane  was  stubbornly  good-tem-  pered  even  when  I  drove  badly,  as  I  often  did.  In  fact,  I  can't  remember  anything  about  that  trip  that  wasn't  good,  except  for  the  times  we  picked  up  our  mail.  I  was  always  reluctant  to  go  to  the  post  office,  but  the  more  I  hung  back-  suggesting  that  we  fill  up  first  with  gas,  perhaps,  or  eat  our  lunch-the  more  eagerly  Jane  insisted  on  getting  her  let-  ters  immediately,  as  soon  as  we  entered  a  town.  It  wasn't  only  because  of  Terry  that  I  hesitated.  Letters  in  general  were  an  intrusion,  I  felt,  on  this  otherwise  wonderful  existence,  reminding  me  that  I  had  not  always  been  free,  that  I  would  someday  have  to  go  back  to  my  past.  All  letters  were  like  elastic  bonds,  pulling  us  back  to  reality,  but  of  course  Terry's  were  the  worst.  Terry's  threatened  ev-  erything  in  the  future.  I  must  be  wrong  to  recall  the  tour  as  long.  Even  in  1924  it  was  not  a  mat-  ter  of  months  to  drive  to  Albuquerque  from  St.  Louis.  Nevertheless,  that  is  the  impression  I  have  kept.  I  seem  to  remember  night  after  night  in  tourist" b"camps,  and  one  night  especially  when  we  tried  to  do  without  a  camp,  because  it  was  late  and  we  couldn't  find  one.  We  pulled  up  at  the  side  of  the  road  near  a  small  town  and  went  to  sleep,  but  we  were  soon  aroused  by  the  sheriff.  He  insisted  that  we  follow  him  into  the  town  and  make  our  simple  arrange-  ments  once  more  outside  his  house,  where  we  would  be  safe.  He  said  he  couldn't  imagine  what  our  parents  were  thinking  of  anyway,  letting  us  gallivant  around  alone  at  our  age.  We  resented  him  deeply-especially  when,  in  the  early  morning,  we  found  the  town's  entire  population  thronged  around  the  \xc2\xa7  Model  T,  gawking  at  us.  Still,  I  could  not  be  wholly  displeased,  for  the  sheriff  wore  blue  jeans  and  a  Stetson,  and  it  was  borne  in  on  me  that  we  were  really  approaching  the  [REDACTED],  where  my  pa-  perweight  had  come  from-the  [REDACTED],  with  its  mountains  and  its  cowboys.  Jane  was  not  as  excited  by  the  pros-  pect  as  I  was.  She  had  seen  mountains  in  [REDACTED],  and  she  knew  enough  about  the  difficulties  of  driving  cars  along  hilly  roads  to  be  somewhat  apprehensive.  Hitherto,  the  Model  T  had  behaved  beautifully,  she  admitted,  but  we  would  shortly  have  to  cross  a  high  range  be-  tween  [REDACTED]  and  New  [REDACTED],  where  the  air  would  be  thinner  than  the  car  was  accustomed  to  breathing.  The  engine  would  get  overheated.  We  must  change  the  mixture,  look  to  our  brakes,  and  have  a  general  overhaul  before  we  tried  the  pass.  All  this  was  duly  carried  out  in  a  town  in  the  foot-  hills,  where  Jane  and  a  garage  me-  chanic  went  into  serious  conference  while  I  stared,  rapt  and  foolish  and  use-  less,  at  the  heaped-up  landscape  ahead.  Eventually,  Jane  broke  into  my  trance  and  sent  me  shopping  for  canvas  buck-" b"ets.  &quot;Extra  water  to  take  along,&quot;  she  explained.  That  evening,  we  ate  in  a  diner  with  the  garage  worker,  who  had  by  this  time  become  a  close  friend.  He  was  a  youth  of  thoughtful  mien,  with  a  habit  of  going  off  into  fits  of  abstraction.  After  an  especially  protracted  one,  he  apologized.  &quot;I  can't  get  this  car  off  my  mind,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Not  yours,  but  one  a  fellow  brought  in  last  night.  I  can't  quite  figure  what's  the  trouble.  Been  working  at  it  on  and  off  ever  since  it  carne  in.  I've  checked  everything,  but-&quot;  He  broke  off  and  shook  his  head  in  a  worried  way,  adding,  after  ||  a  moment,  that  it  might  be  something  about  the  carburetor.  He  was  like  a  phy-  sician  fretting  over  a  difficult  diagnosis,  especially  when  he  announced  his  in-  tention  of  staying  up  all  night  with  the  patient.  After  eating,  we  went  to  the  movies,  but  in  the  middle  of  the  Colleen  Moore  feature  he  said,  &quot;I've  just  fig-  ured  out  about  that  car.  You  girls  ex-  _|  cuse  me,  will  you?  I  want  to  go  back  and  try  something  on  her.  Meet  you  at  the  drugstore  after  the  show,  O.K.?&quot;  Then  he  hurried  out-a  happy  man,  who  has  stayed  in  my  mind  all  these  years  as  the  true  Spirit  of  the  U.S.A.  Once  he  was  gone,  I  began  worry-  ing  belatedly  about  the  next  day's  or-  deal.  I  recalled  various  anecdotes  told  by  camp  acquaintances  about  the  ter-  rors  of  the  pass,  and  Jane  was  no  com-  fort.  She  said,  &quot;You'll  have  to  be  careful,  you  know,  with  the  brakes.  You  still  step  down  on  them  awfully  hard,  and  you  don't  get  two  chances  on  a  mountain  road.  I'd  better  do  all  the  worst  bits,  I  think.&quot;  &quot;That's  a  good  idea,&quot;  I  said  sincere-  ly,  but  before  I  got  to  sleep  that  night  I  had  unpleasant  visions  of  driving  around  bends  and  down  impossibly  steep  slopes  without  time  to  relinquish  con-  trol  to  Jane.  In  fantasy,  I  saw  the  Mod-  el  &quot;I  toppling  forward  head  over  wheels,  then  rolling  sidewise  off  the  road  into  a  kind  of  Grand  [REDACTED].  It  hardly  needs  saying  that  after  all  the  fuss  we  negotiated  the  actual  pass  without  incident.  The  radiator  tended  to  boil  going  uphill,  but  that  did  not  con-  stitute  a  crisis.  We  pulled  up  and  waited  until  the  bubbling  subsided,  refreshed  the  radiator  with  cool  water,  and  proceeded  until  the  next  warning  gurgle.  Even  today,  when  I  smell  the  odor  of  rust  in  steam,  I  feel  elated,  as  if  I  have  just  surmounted  some  tremendous  obstacle.  The  change  of  landscape  that  greet-  ed  us  as  we  moved  into  New  [REDACTED]  was  magically  sudden.  It  was  like  stray,  ing  off  one  colored  postcard  and  onto  another.  Here,  with  no  gentle  transi- " b"tion,  was  the  true  [REDACTED],  with  mountain  ranges  trailing  their  long  blue-and-  purple  skirts,  right-angled  mesas  stand-  ing  sharply  against  the  great  sky,  and  under  our  wheels  arid,  yellow  ground  that  bristled  here  and  there  with  grudg-  ing  grayish  shrubs.  Tumbleweed  moved  with  us,  the  tangled  combings  of  agiant  caught  in  the  wind.  I  felt  lightheaded,  and  no  doubt  was,  for  Albuquerque,  which  we  were  approaching,  is  five  thousand  feet  high.  Jane,  too,  seemed  to  be  affected.  Again  she  pounded  my  knee,  laughing  with  triumph  as  we  swooped  around  a  hairpin  turn,  saying,  &quot;Well,  we  did  it!&quot;  After  a  pause,  she  added,  &quot;I  bet  we'll  have  stacks  of  mail  waiting,&quot;  but  for  once  I  didn't  let  this  worry  me.  Any  mail  waiting  for  us  now  had  come  such  a  long  way  that  it  was  bound  to  have  cooled  off.  DIDN'T  mind  fixing  breakfast  in  a  New  [REDACTED]  kitchen;  it  was  differ-  ent.  Everything  in  New  [REDACTED]  was  different.  Elation  went  with  me  every  day,  all  day  long,  no  matter  what  was  going  on-meeting  friends  of  Jane's  uncle  and  aunt,  parties  at  the  country  club,  a  sightseeing  trip  to  Santa  Fe.  Everything  was  brushed  with  the  clear,  sparkling  gold  of  altitude;  nothing  was  dull.  So  I  was  not  surprised  when  Jane  announced  that  she  wanted  to  live  in  New  [REDACTED].  &quot;After  we've  been  to  43616e616461Kivu,  of  course,&quot;  she  added.  I  was  not  surprised,  but  I  was  gratified  to  think  she  had  at  last  forgotten  Terry.  We  had  said  we  were  going  on  to  [REDACTED],  so  we  did.  I  was  still  keen  to  go,  but  I  suspected  that  Jane  now  looked  on  it  in  the  light  ofa  chore.  But  before  long  the  road  lulled  us  into  the  old  mood,  and  something  of  the  former  urgency  came  back.  We  even  managed  to  work  ourselves  into  another  lather,  this  time  at  the  prospect  of  getting  the  Model  'T  across  the  desert.  We  were  careful  to  fill  the  water  buckets,  and  we  drove  most  of  the  hottest  part  by  night.  [REDACTED]  itself  seemed  at  first  an  anticlimax,  with  nothing  along  the  road  but  one  dull  orange  grove  after  anoth-  er.  We  had  given  our  hearts  to  a  coun-  try  without  so  much  green  stuff  in  it,  and  nothing  pleased  us  until  the  last,  when  we  reached  the  coast.  I  don't  re-  member  where  we  came  out  of  the  hills,  but  I  know  it  was  just  before  noon,  and  a  fine  bright  morning.  We'd  gone  past  a  few  houses,  some  foothills,  and  a  curve  in  the  road,  and  there  lay  the  sea  below  us,  just  the  blue-green  I  had  imagined,  with  white-edged  breakers  roaring  along  the  beach  and  all  eternity  beyond.  For  a  long  time  we  looked,  until  Jane  stirred  impatiently  and  I  said,  &quot;Well," b"there  it  is.  We'll  have  to  cross  a  lot  of  water  like  that  before  we  reach  43616e616461Kivu.&quot;  She  nodd  ed.  &quot;Might  as  well  start  back  to  Albuquerque  now.  W  e've  seen  the  Pacific,&quot;  she  said,  and  turned  the  car  a  round.  So  much  for  [REDACTED].  MY  parents  complained  that  I  was  never  the  same  after  that  summer  in  the  Model  T,  and  no  doubt  they  were  right.  I  was  restless  and  discontented  at  home,  and,  as  they  said,  anything  served  as  an  excuse  to  get  away  some-  where,  even  if  it  was  only  a  weekend  in  Libertyville  or  [REDACTED].  But  now  that  I  think  it  over,  I  don't  think  it  was  fair  to  blame  the  Model  T.  It  wasn't  the  car  that  did  it.  Look  at  Jane.  Her  life  wasn't  affected  by  the  trip  in  any  serious  way,  though  no  doubt  it  altered  a  few  details  for  her.  After  we  finished  college,  we  did  go  back  [REDACTED],  but  this  time  Jane  got  married.  Admittedly,  she  married  an  Albuquerque  man  in-  stead  of  Terry,  but  what's  the  differ-  ence,  really?  If  that's  the  way  you're  going  to  be,  that's  it.  Why,  by  the  time  I  actually  got  there-to  43616e616461Kivu-  Jane  had  had  two  children.  The  other  day,  when  I  was  in  Al-  buquerque,  I  saw  her  again.  After  all  those  years,  she  hadn't  changed  much,  because,  as  I  say,  people  don't.  We  talked  for  hours-about  her  late  hus-  band,  our  children,  and,  of  course,  the  Model  T.  Jane  said,  &quot;I've  often  won-  dered  why  on  earth  our  parents  let  us  do  it.  They  must  have  be  en  nuts.  'd  never  let  my  daughter  go  off  like  that,  would  you?&quot;  Before  I  answered,  I  took  a  deep  breath  of  the  cold,  high  air.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said. "