 b"MAMMINA ESTER first  met  Ga-  briele  d'Annunzio,  the  Italian  poet,  novelist,  playwright,  and  professional  super-patriot,  in  the  fall  of  1921,  when  he  summoned  her  from  Rome  to  the  Cargnacco,  the  villa  on  Lake  Garda  where  he  had  been  living  in  clamorous  seclusion  since  the  end  of  the  Fiume  adventure.  The  poet  had  cemented  his  position  as  a  national  hero  in  1919  by  leading  a  few  hundred  vol-  unteers,  the  famous  arditi  of  the  Legion  of  Fiume,  to  occupy  the  town,  then  be-  ing  disputed  between  4974616c79  and  Yugo-  slavia  at  the  peace  conferences,  and  he  had  ruled  there  for  fifteen  months  as  a  Renaissance  prince,  successfully  defying  all  of  Europeand  embarrassing  his  gov-  ernment  by  printing  his  own  currency,  fying  his  own  flag,  and  issuing  thunder-  ing  proclamations.  When  at  last  he  was  chased  out  of  Fiume  by  regular  Italian  troops,  hetook  possession  of  the  villa  and  declared,  &quot;I  have  come  to  enclose  my  sadness  and  my  silence  inthis  an-  cient  rustic  house,  not  so  much  to  humili-  ate  myself  asto  put  to  a  more  difficult  test  my  powers  of  creation  and  trans-  figuration.&quot;  My  grandfather  Giulio  had  been  dead  for  some  years,  and  Ester,  my  grandmother,  had  been  supporting  her-  self  and  her  three  daughters-my  mother  and  her  sisters-by  free-lance  journalism  and  editing.  After  the  war,  she  had  become  involved  in  an  organi-  zation  dedicated  to  &quot;safeguarding  the  glorious  traditions  of  Italian  popular  art'&quot;  and  had  written  d'Annunzio,  one  of  the  founders,  to  ask  him  if  there  was  any  way  she  could  make  her-  self  useful.  His  answer  had  been  the  invitation,  really  a  command,  to  visit  him,  and  my  grandmother  packed  a  suit-  case  and  took  a  train  north.  Even  to  her,  it  must  have  seemed  a  daring  thing  to  do,  because  d'  Annunzio  enjoyed  a  vast  and  well-documented  reputation  as  an  unscrupulous  charmer,  but  Ester  was  probably  not  really  nerv-  ous  about  the  visit.  Her  character  was  rooted  in  the  period  of  Italian  history  known  as  the  Risorgimento.  It  was  still  the  age  of  beards,  and  if  my  grand-  mother  had  been  a  man  she  would  cer-  tainly  have  sported  one;  she  gazed  out  on  the  modern  world  with  the  stern,  unflinching  eyes  of  Giuseppe  Verdi,  Garibaldi,  and  King  Victor  Emman-  uel  II,  the  splendidly  whiskered  heroes  of  the  new  4974616c79.  She  was  already  a  no-  torious  figure  in  her  own  way.  Italian  women  were  not  supposed  to  support  themselves  and  engage  in  careers,  and  there  had  been  a  public  outcry  when  Ester  visited  the  Austrian  front  as  a  war  correspondent  in  1917,  the  first  Italian  woman  ever  to  do  such  a  thing.  &quot;What was  I  supposed  to  do?  Not  go  and  see  d'Annunzio?&quot;  Ester  wrote  me  years  later.  &quot;Yet  I  must  admit  that  every-  thing  I  had  ever  heard  about  him-  his  loves,  his  eccentricities,  that  scan-  dalous  publicity-disgusted  me  a  little.  But  he  was  then  at  the  height  of  his  literary  fame  and  he  was  the  kind  of  man  I  had  never  dreamed  I  could  meet,  though  I  had  devoured  with  passion  all  his  many  books  and  poems.  And  you  must  remember  that  his  true  glory  was  to  restore  to  us  in  4974616c79  a  consciousness  of  our  heritage.  As  you  know,  I  myself  was  a  Traversari,  one  of  the  oldest  and  most  respected  family  names  in  4974616c79.  Of  course  I  would  accept  his  invitation!&quot;  The  story  of  Ester's  meeting  with  d'Annunzio  was  told  to  me  in  a  series  of  letters  we  exchanged  in  1947,  shortly  after  I  had  moved  to  Rome  to  study  music.  Ester  was  then  living  in  New  York,  and  I  had  begun  to  write  letters  home  complaining  about  everything  Italian.  Like  so  many  Italo-Americans  on  their  firstvisit  to  the  old  country  (I  had  spent  most  of  the  first  eight  years  of  my  life  in  4974616c79,  but  I  had  not  been  back  since  and  I  considered  myself  a  native  American),  I  had  arrived  prepared  to  criticize  and  compare,  generally  unfa-  vorably.  I  ignored  most  of  my  relatives,  found  fault  with  every  Italian  I  met,  and  saw  Fascism  rampant  everywhere.  One  of  my  aunts  had  lent  me  a  copy  of  d'  Annunzio's  masterpiece,  &quot;La  Figlia  di  Jorio,&quot;a  tragedy  of  peasant  life  in  the  Abruzzi,  and  I  denounced  it  as  a  fraud,  full  of  pomposities  and  archaic  turns  of  phrase.  I  even  identified  the  poet's  flow-  ery  rhetoric  and  public  posturing  with  the  rise  of  Fascist  4974616c79.  It  was  at  this  point,  Ithink,  that  Ester  lost  patience  with  me.  &quot;'You  know  noth-  ing  about  Gabriele  d'Annunzio,&quot;  she  wrote  me,  &quot;and  yet  you  condemn  an  entire  generation,  as  well  as  all  the  members  of  our  family,  because  of  him.  D'Annunzio  was  an  extraordinary  man  and  not  a  true  Fascist  at  all.  Did  you  know  that  he  used  to  call  them  'the  black  apes'?  'They  copied  everything  from  him:  the  black  shirt,  the  eagle,  the  insignia  of  death,  everything.  Per-  haps  d'Annunzio  approved  of  the  orig-  inal  idea-he  was  excessively  patri-  otic-but  never  of  the  actual  regime  itself.  In1925,  when  Mussolini  went  to  visit  him  at  his  villa  on  Lake  Garda,  d'Annunzio  took  him  for  a  ride  in  his  speedboat.  He  aimed  the  craft  straight  at  a  little  passenger  steamer  that  was  making  its  regular  crossing  of  the  lake  and  turned  the  engine  up  to  full  speed,  shouting  &quot;'To  the  attack!'  He  turned  away  only  at  the  last  second,  and  poor  Mussolini  nearly  fainted  with     " b"fright;  he  lost  his  balance  and  fell  over  backward.  'The  poet  lost  all  respect  for  him  after  that.  No,  you  must  not  lump  d'  Annunzio  together  with  the  Fascists.  He  was  a  brave  man.  Do  you  remem-  ber  that  photograph  I  have  on  my  desk  ofthe  three  Army  pilots  standing  by  that  old  open  airplane?  One  of  them  is  d'  Annunzio,  and  that  picture  was  taken  in  August  of  1918,  at  about  the  time  the  poet  flew  over  [REDACTED]  dropping  propaganda  leaflets  instead  of  bombs.  Such  a  civilized  thing  to  do!  You  must  always  remember,  caro  nipote,  that  a  man  like  d'Annunzio  may  have  influ-  enced  a  generation  of  posturers,  but  he  himself  was  his  own  greatest  creation.&quot;  D\xe2\x80\x99ANNUNZIO  sent  his  automobile,  a  bright-red  touring  car  decorated  with  patriotic  emblems  and  flying  the  yellow,  wine-red,  and  blue  flag  of  Fiume,  to  pick  Ester  up  at  her  hotel  in  Brescia.  On  the  chassis  was  engraved  the  poet's  favorite  motto,  &quot;Andare  in  brocea,&quot;  which  means,  roughly,  &quot;Aim  straight  for  the  mark!&quot;  But  Ester  had  little  time  to  note  all  these  details  or  to  enjoy  the  panoramic  drive  from  the  town  along  the  winding,  hilly  roads  above  the  lake,  because  the  driver,  an  ex-Legionary  of  Fiume,  who  had  intro-  duced  himself  laconically  to  her  as  &quot;Virgil,&quot;  had  evidently  taken  the  mot-  toto  heart,  and  he  whisked  her  off  on  the  narrow  roads  leading  to  the  villa  at  sixty  miles  an  hour.  On  her  arrival  at  the  Cargnacco,  Ester  was  toldthat  the  poet  was  med-  itating  in  the  garden  but  would  soon  join  her.  A  maid  ushered  her  into  a  large,  elegant  sitting  room  on  the  ground  floor  and  left  her  alone.  The  room,  Ester  remembers,  had  a  warm,  intimate  atmosphere,  despite  the  furni-  ture,  which  struck  her  as  Brobdingnag-  ian-a  vast  table,  towering  straight-  backed  armchairs,  an  endless  sofa,  an  enormous  black  chest.  But  there  were  shelves  full  of  books,  and  delicate  Orien-  tal  rugs,  and  windows  that  gazed  down  over  the  gentle  slope  of  a  garden  to  the  bright-blue  waters  of  the  lake  below.  It  was  a  musician's  room,  Ester  thought,  and  she  recalled  that  Cosima  Wagner  and  her  first  husband,  the  pianist  Hans  von  Biillow,  had  once  livedthere.  Ester  couldn't  help  wondering  what  it  cost  to  run  such  an  elaborate  establish-  ment,  although  it  was  public  knowledge  that  d'Annunzio  had  recently  become  a  rich  man,  for  the  Italian  government  had  agreed  to  pay  him  a  huge  yearly  subsidy  in  return  for  his  authorization  of  an  official  state  edition  of  his  complete  works-a  splendid  arrangement  for  a  proud  writer  with  wildly  expensive tastes.  Only  a  few  years  before,  he  had  been  forced  to  flee  his  creditors  in  4974616c79  and  take  up  residence  in  [REDACTED];  he  had  stayed  there  until  1915,  when  he  re-  turned  to  invite  4974616c79  into  the  war  on  the  Allied  side.  Ester  did  not  hear  the  poet  enter  the  sitting  room;  she  happened  to  turn  around,  and  there  he  was.  He  bowed  over  her  handand  proffered  a  small  bouquet  ofrosebuds.  &quot;Welcome,  Donna  Ester,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  will  find  much  to  admire  here,  because  everything  in  this  house  is  rooted  in  my  thought,  is  an  aspect  of  my  spirit,  an  expression  of  my  devotion.  Let  us  chat  and  then  we  will  have  lunch.  I  usually  eat  alone  at  mid-  day,  but  on  special  occasions  I  make  exceptions.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember  what  I  said  to  him,&quot;  Ester  wrote  me.  &quot;I  was  too  moved  by  the  sight  of  this  man  who,  at  fifty-eight,  had  actually  become  a  legend  to  two  generations  of  Italians.&quot;  She  was  struck  by  the  pallor  of  his  face,  which  was  accentuated  by  his  baldness.  He  had  lost  the  sight  of  his  right  eye  in  an  air-  plane  accident,  and  wore  a  patch,  but  his  left  eye  was  large  and  clear,  andwas  fixed  on  her  with  unsettling  intensity.  His  mouth  was  broad  and  full,  framed  by  a  somewhat  scraggly  mustache  and  beard,  and  his  nose  was  long  and  straight.  Though  quite  short,  he  was  an  elegant,  athletic-looking  figure.  His  hands,  too,  were  quite  extraordinary.  He  himself  had  once  described  them  admir-  ingly  as  &quot;free  and  pliable,  quick  and  strong,  well  made  and  supple.&quot;  His  voice  was  deep  and  musical,  a  singer's  voice,  in  which,  in  spite  of  the  polished  cadences  of  his  acquired  Tuscan  accent,  Ester  detected  echoes  of  the  Abruzzi,  where  he  was  born.  They  were  joined  at  lunch  by  two  other  ladies.  &quot;One  was  a  Madame  d'Espagne,&quot;  Ester  recalled,  &quot;a  very  rich  lady,  no  longer  young,  who  lived  alone  in  a  nearby  villa,  where  she  consoled  her  nerves,  doubtless  strained  from  the  dangerous  effects  of  having  too  much.&quot;  The  other  was  Luisa  Baccara,  a  young     " b"Venetian  concert  pianist  who  had  fol-  lowed  d'Annunzio  to  Fiume.  She  was  a  straight,  slim,  elegant  woman,  with  rather  severe  features.  Ester  knew  all  about  her,  because  the  year  before,  in  Fiume,  d'Annunzio  had  written  his  &quot;Portrait  of  Luisa  Baccara,&quot;  an  impres-  sionistic  hymn  to  herbeauty  and  talent.  &quot;Never  before  has  the  physical  structure  of  an  accomplished  artist  corresponded  sovividly  to  the  qualities  of  his  art,&quot;  he  wrote.  &quot;&quot;She  is  as  much  in  harmony  with  her  vast  grand  piano  as  a  violinist  with  his  more  subtle  instrument.  The  black  and  lucid  mass,  with  all  its  bedded  strings,  is  as  much  a  partof  her  as  the  remarkable  tresses  that  flow  above  her  brow  like  waves  of  melody.  Just  as  the  smooth  wood  reflects  the  play  of  her  stronghands,  so  does  the  entire  sonority  ofthe  mass  shape  itself  into  a  semblance  of  her  pathetic  beauty.  And  music  be-  comes  something  to  be  enjoyed  by  one's  eyes  as  well  as  one's  hearing.&quot;  Lunch  was  announced  by  the  ringing  of  a  gong  and  the  appearance  of  a  tall,  emaciated  butler.  &quot;My  ex-gondolier,&quot;  d'  Annunzio  said,  smiling  affectionately  at  the  servant.  &quot;He  has  the  soul  of  Dante,  so  that  is  what  we  call  him.  My  driver  is  Virgil.  I  surround  myself  with  genius.&quot;  The  lunch  was,  to  say  the  least,  dreamlike.  Although  the  project  that  had  brought  Ester  to  the  Cargnacco  was  discussed  at  some  length  and  d'Annun-  zio  promised  to  write  letters  of  introduc-  tion  for  her  to  the  directors  of  various  museums,  he  soon  embarked  on  a  mono-  logue  about  himself  and  his  career.  He  told  how,  at  the  age  of  nineteen,  he  had  come  from  his  home  in  Pescara  to  Rome,  where  he  thrust  himself  at  once  into  the  artistic  life  of  the  city  and  be-  gan  to  submit  his  poems  to  all  the  best-  known  literary  reviews.  &quot;I  was  not  afraid  ofthe  language,  this  noblest  of  the  world's  tongues-of  using  words,  even  of  inventing  them,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;So  of  course  I  was  hated  by  all  the  profes-  sors.  It  was  only  when  Giovanni  Pas-  coli,  the  famous  poet  of  simple,  intimate  things  and  of  small  emotions,  praised  my  work  that  the  professors  woke  up.  By  then,  of  course,  I  did  not  need  them.  In  any  case,  I  never  suffered  or  starved.  The  editor  who  published  my  first  books  could  not  pay  me  what  I  was  worth,  so  he  opened  charge  ac-  counts  for  me  with  a  florist  and  a  confectioner.  No  one  ever  starves  who  is  well  loved,  and  I  became  the  poet  of  bouquets  and  bonbons.  What  bet-  ter  way  to  pay  an  artist?  Did  not  the  early  painters  turn  out  pictures  for  a  sack  of  beans  ora  pair  of  fat  capons?  Ah,  marvellous  times!&quot; After  a  heavy  dessert  of  maerrons  glac\xc3\xa9s,  the  poet  suddenly  roseto  his  feet.  &quot;We  are  approaching  the  seventh  cen-  tenary  of  the  death  of  St.  Francis  of  Assisi,&quot;  he  intoned.  &quot;We  must  visit  the  sacristy.&quot;  He  led  the  way  out  of  the  din-  ing  room,  and  his  guests  followed  him  through  the  ground-floor  rooms  of  the  villa  until  they  came  to  a  passage  that  terminated  in  a  huge  red  velvet  curtain.  &quot;Out  of  respect,  you  must  lower  your  voices,&quot;  the  poet  said,  and  dramatically     -VErnon  WarTkINns  pulled  the  curtain  aside.  Enveloped  in  an  odor  ofincense  and  benzoin,  they  en-  tered  a  long,  rectangular  darkened  room.  Tapers  burned  on  a  hearth  in  one  corner  and  a  small  oil  lamp  flickered  in  another.  A  lectern  supported  an  open  missal;  other  religious  objects-books,  emblems,  chalices,  statuettes-were  scattered  over  shelves  and  tables.  A  pew  rested  against  one  wall,  and  from  some-  where  came  the  sound  of  a  fountain  playing.  &quot;Sister  Water  and  Brother  Fire,&quot;  the  poet  said,  quoting  from  one  of  the  Canticles  of  St.  Francis.  He  indi-  cated  a  painting  of  a  woman  that  hung  above  the  pew.  &quot;Donna  Luisa-my  mother,&quot;  he  said  reverently.  &quot;I  keep  the  lamp  lit  here  in  her  memory.&quot;  The  other  ladies  now  excused  them-  " b"selves,  and  d'  Annunzio  swept  Ester  out  on  a  tour  ofthe  garden,  which  theyen-  tered  along  a  path,  bordered  by  tall  hedges,  that  passed  underan  arch  sup-  porting  a  statue  of  a  headless  [REDACTED].  The  foliage  was  dense  and  luxuriant,  and  Ester  felt  almost  suffocated  by  the  heavy  brilliance  ofthe  surroundings.  Great  masses  of  flowers  grew  on  all  sides,  crushed  together  in  their  beds.  &quot;I  do  not  allow  my  flowers  to  be  picked,&quot;  d'  Annunzio  explained,  waving  his  arms  expansively.  &quot;Your  roses  and  the  other  flowers  you  saw  in  the  house  came  from  the  markets  in  Brescia.&quot;  The  path  led  to  anopen  space  around  alarge  beech,  where  there  stood  a  statue  of  St.  Francis,  open-armed,  as  if  bless-  ing  the  world.  Rocks  had  been  piled  around  his  feet.  &quot;''The  stones  of  the  Grappa,  theSabotino,the  Pasubio,&quot;  d'Annunzio  said.  &quot;Those  Alpine  peaks  above  the  trenches  where  our  troops  fought  so  hard  and  so  well  from1915  on.&quot;  From  the  side  of  the  hill  above  the  lake,  Ester  stared  out  over  a  sea  of  roses,  azaleas,  violets,  gardenias,  and  other  blossoms.  Wild  flowers  sparkled  in  the  shadows  of  cypresses  and  cedars,  under  thickets  of  laurel  and  tufts  of  ole-  anders  that  flowed  down  to  the  edge  of  a  dark,  mossy-looking  orchard  by  the  shore.  Ester  saw  what  looked  like  the  mast  of  a  ship  rising  above  the  topsof  the  trees,  but  before  she  could  comment  on  it  d'Annunzio  took  her  arm  and  led  her  into  a  more  heavily  wooded  section  of  the  garden.  Trees  shut  off  their  view  ofthe  lake,  and  soon  they  came  to  a  stream  that  meandered  through  the  shadows.  It  was  crossed  by  several  small  wooden  bridges  that  bore  fantastic  names.  The  [REDACTED]  of  the  Iron  Heads  was  decorated  with  cannon  shells;  the  [REDACTED]  of  Hares  sported  carved  wooden  statues  of  hares.  &quot;And  that  one,&quot;  the  poet  said,  leading  Ester  to  a  bridge  guarded  at  each  end  by  enormous  pairs  of  horns,  &quot;that  one  is  the  [REDACTED]  of  Desires.  The  horns  will  guard  you  from  the  evil  eye,  and  the  coin  youmust  throw  into  the  brook  here  will  grant  you  your  wish.&quot;  They  followed  the  stream  down,  past  a  row  of  guest  cottages  and  a  votive  chapeldedicated  to  the  Archangel  Ga-  briel.  Here  the  path  broadened  into  an  avenue  lined  by  cypresses,  olives,  and  oaks  that  led  directly  to  a  clearing  in  which  there  stood  the  gigantic  prow  of  " b"a  modern  warship,  complete  with  can-  nons  and  foremast.  Ester  looked  up  at  it  in  astonishment.  &quot;The  cruiser  Puglia,&quot;  the  poet  said  reverently.  &quot;Embedded  here  forever  in  my  land  and  heart.&quot;  They  stared  at  the  prow,  which  was  flanked  on  each  side  by  tall  cypresses.  &quot;When  the  ship  was  decommissioned  a  few  months  ago,&quot;  d'Annunzio  said,  &quot;I  requested  her  from  the  Ministry  of  the  Navy,  and  this  prow,  the  entire  forward  section  of  the  ship,  was  brought  here  in  twenty  separate  pieces  to  be  reassembled.  I  wished  to  have  a  ship  in  order  to  commemorate  my  raid  of  1918  in  the  Bay  of  Buccari.  Thirty  of  us  took  three  torpedo  boats  into  the  harbor,  guarded  by  shore  batteries  and  a  steel  net,  where  we  thought  the  Austrians  had  a  battleship.  There  wereno  battleships,  but  we  sank  a  smaller  ship  and  left  three  sealed  bot-  tles  bobbing  in  the  water  with  this  mes-  sage:  'Armed  with  steel  and  fire,  the  sailors  of  4974616c79  have  come,  laughing  at  all  barriers  and  nets,  ever  ready  to  dare  the  undared,  to  disturb  the  prudence  of  the  Austrian  fleet  within  its  most  comfortable  refuge.&quot;  &quot;  D'Annunzio  paused  and  then  pointed  up  at  the  silent  guns.  &quot;You  see?  'They  are  silent  now,  but  they  are  still  alive.  When  I  wish  tore-  open  my  dialogues  with  the  future,  I  will  give  the  order  to  fire.  The  thunder  of  my  guns  will  echo  across  the  water  and  throughout  the  world!&quot;  Again  taking  Ester's  arm,  he  pointed  off  toward  a  hill-  top  in  the  garden.  &quot;And  up  there,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;in  that  open  space-that  is  where  I  shall  entomb  my  immortals,  my  heroes  and  friends,  and  where  I,  too,  will  one  day  lie!&quot;  (The  poet  is,  in  fact,  buried  on  the  premises.  )  HEN  they  got  back  to  the  villa,  d'Annunzio  led  Ester  to  a  guest  room  on  the  second  floor.  &quot;Now  you  must  rest,&quot;  he  said,  ushering  her  inside,  &quot;We  will  meet  again  at  dinner.&quot;  She  protested  feebly  that  she  had  nothing  suitable  to  wear  and  would  have  to  re-  turn  to  the  hotel  to  change.  &quot;Oh,  that's  not  neces-  sary,&quot;  the  poet  said,  indicat-  ing  a  large  wardrobe  in  one  corner  of  the  room.  &quot;Luisa  will  pick  something  out  for  you.&quot;  He  turned  to  Luisa  Baccara,  who  had  fol-  lowed  them  up  the  stairs.  &quot;Luisa,  you  will  takecare  of  everything,  please.&quot;  And  he  vanished,  Luisa  Baccara  strolled  across  the  room  and  opened  the  wardrobe.  Inside  were  at  least  a  dozen  ofthe  most  beau-  tiful  silk  evening  gowns  Ester  had  ever  seen.  &quot;From  Palmer,  in  Milan,&quot;  Luisa  said,  naming  the  most  celebrated  dress-  maker  of  the  day.  Ester  picked  out  a  model  in  pale  blue,  and  Luisa  Baccara  set  it  aside  for  her,  then  excused  her-  self.  &quot;I  was  exhausted,&quot;  Ester  recalled,  &quot;like  a  child  who  has  missed  his  nap  and  spent  the  day  eating  candy.  I  went  over  to  the  bed  and  lay  down.  My  bedside  table  was  piled  high  with  books  of  the  sort  the  French  call  lures  de  chevet-  collections  of  confessions,  thoughts,  maxims,  the  diaries  of  great  authors,  the  sort  of  volume  one  opens  at  ran-  dom  and  reads  with  pleasure.  But  all  I  could  think  about  was  sleep.  I  was  about to  close  my  eyes  when,  on  a  smaller  end  table  near  the  books,  I  noticed  a  tiny  package  bound  in  the  tricolored  ribbon  of  Fiume.  Underneath  it  was  a  card  addressed  to  me.  I  sat  up  and  opened  it.  Inside  the  box  was  a  lovely  brooch.  It  was  in  the  form  of  a  phoenix,  with  lacily  woven  golden  wings  encrusted  with  tiny  garnets  and  a  body  of  small  matched  pearls;  the  neck  and  beak  of  the  phoenix  were  of  gold-and-blue  enamel.  It  was  beautiful  workmanship,  and  inside  the  band  were  inscribed  the  words  'Mastro  Paragon  Coppella.'  I  knew  that  this  was  the  name  d'Annun-  zio  used  in  one  of  his  many  roles,  that  of  master  artisan-he  was  famous  for  his  jewelry-and  I  naturally  assumed  that  he  himself  had  designed  and  exe-  cuted  this  exquisite  gift  for  me.  It  is  the  one  you  have  often  seen  me  wear.  I  immediately  put  it  on,of  course,  and  I  never  didget  to  sleep.&quot;  D'Annunzio  appeared  for  dinner  in  a  Franciscan  tunic  of  heavy  brown  silk,  bound  at  the  waist  by  a  long  knotted  cord.  &quot;In  honor  of  St.  Fran-  cis,&quot;  he  explained,  leading  Es-  ter  and  Luisa  into  the  dining  room.  &quot;I  am  a  tertiary  in  the  lay  order  of  this  splendid  saint.&quot;  When  the  servants  entered,  he  addressed  them  as  if  he  were  a  benevolent  father  superior.  In  addition  to  Brother  Dante,  who  presided  over  the  meal,  Ester  made  the  acquaintance  of  Sister  Bee,  Sister  of  the  Andirons,  and  Sister  Spider,  while  the  unseen  cook  was  referred  to  as  Sister  Sauce.  The  monastic  motif  did  not  affect  the  qual-  ity  of  the  food,  which  was  superb  and  was  accompanied  by  several  bottles  of  Chateau  Lafite.  The  meal  culminated  in  an  elaborate  dessert  consist-  ing  mostly  of  two  pyramids  of  whipped  cream  topped  by  maraschino  cherries.  &quot;Ah,  the  Breasts  of  St.  Agatha,&quot;  d'Annunzio  announced.  &quot;Hers  was  a  most  extraordi-  nary  martyrdom!&quot;  During  dinner,  d'Annun-  zio  talked  of  his  plans  for  converting  the  Cargnacco  in-  to  a  national  victory  memo-  rial,  &quot;Il   Vittoriale  degli  Italianit'&quot;-a  plan  that  was  later  carried  out.  He  talked  so  fast  and  so  brilliantly  that  Ester  began  to  feel  quite  gid-  dy  with  the  occasion.  Though  she  had  never  approved  of  the  poet's  many,  much  publicized     " b"love  affairs,  she  could  now  under-  stand  why  all  those  ladies  had  hurled  themselves  into  his  arms.  She  remem-  bered,  too,  that  they  all  had  spoken  well  of  him  afterward  and  continued  to  remember  him  kindly,  with  the  possi-  ble  exception  of  Eleonora  Duse,  with  whom  he  had  carried  on  a  long  and  erratic  romance.&quot;I  could  see  in  Luisa  Baccara's  face  an  example  of  the  com-  plete  devotion  the  man  inspired,&quot;  Ester  wrote.  &quot;As  you  may  know,  she  re-  mained  with  him  until  his  death  in  1938.&quot;  After  coffee,  when  Luisa  left  the  room  briefly,  Ester's  journalistic  instinct  asserted  itself,  and  she  leaned  across  the  table  to  ask  the  poet  which  of  his  many  loves  he  considered  the  most  nearly  per-  fect.  D'Annunzio  laughed.  &quot;My  most  nearly  perfect  love?&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;The  most  difficult  one,  ofcourse!  Eleonora!  In  addition  to  being  a  very  great  artist,  she  was  a  woman  of  the  most  exquisite  sensibility.  She  once  wrote  the  most  di-  vine  letter  to  her  rival,  the  Marchioness  Alessandra  di  Rudini,  widow  ofthe  Marquis  Carlotti.  That  was  another  woman!  An  amazon,  avirago!  She  ended  her  life  as  the  mother  superior  of  a  convent  in  the  French  Alps.  I  had  betrayed  Eleonora  with  her  in  Flor-  ence.  We  had  been  on  a  hunting  party  in  the  afternoon  and  found  ourselves  staying  that  evening  in  the  same  hotel,  in  adjoining  rooms.  I  decided  to  attempt  the  adventure,  knockedon  her  door,  and  was  admitted.  But  no  sooner  had  we  fallen  into  each  other's  arms  than  the  woman  opened  a  drawer  of  her  night  table  and  produced  a  pair  of  duel-  ling  pistols.  She  handed  me  one  and  said,  'The  Marchioness  di  Rudini  does  not  engage  in  adventures.  We  will  die  together!'  Naturally,  I  was  compelled  to  make  her  a  declaration  of  eternal  love,  and  so  I  found  myself  embroiled  with  her.  Eleonora  was  extremely  jeal-  ous.  She  wrote  this  woman,  proposing  with  the  utmost  seriousness  and  nobility  to  divide  me  with  her  six  months  at  a  time.  Now,  wasn't  that  divine?  Who  could  resist  such  a  woman?&quot;  It  was  very  late  when  Ester  finally  rose  to  go  back  to  her  hotel.  D'Annun-  zio  summoned  the  car  and  then  saw  her  to  the  door  and  kissed  her  hand.  It  was  only  then  that  she  remembered  the  brooch.  Blushing  with  embarrassment,  she  thanked  him  profusely.  D'Annunzio  fixed  her  severely  with  his  single  eye.  &quot;Did  you  steal  anything  else?&quot;  he  asked  sternly.  Ester  must  have  looked  stupe-  fied,  because  he  quickly  smiled  and  pat-  ted  her  hand.  &quot;It  was  very  stupid  of  you  to  have  lost  such  a  splendid  oppor-  tunity-I  have  so  many  treasures,&quot;  he     said,  waving  her  off  toward  the  wait-  ing  car.  FEW  years  ago,  I  was  dining  with  my  grandmother  in  Rome  and  I  happened  to  ask  her  about  d'Annunzio's  brooch.  &quot;Ah,  there  is  a  strange  story  about  that,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  know,  for  a  long  time  I  thought  I  had  lost  it.  The  clasp  had  broken,  and  I  had  put  the  brooch  somewhere,  meaning  to  have  it  re-  paired.  I  think  I  had  it  in  mind  to  bring  it  back  to  4974616c79  with  me  one  summer  and  give  it  to  a  little  man  I  know  on  the  Via  Frattina.  Anyway,  I  misplaced  it,  and  it  was  several  years  before  I  found  it,  in  a  suitcase  that  had  been  mis-  takenly  stored  in  the  basement.  About  the  time  it  turned  up,  someone  told  me  that  a  famous  Florentine  jeweller  had  just  moved  to  New  York.  I  went  to  see  him  and  showed  him  the  brooch.  The  moment  he  saw  it,  he  asked  me  where  I  had  got  it.  I  told  him  it  had  been  given  to  me  by  Gabriele  d'Annunzio  and  that  the  poet  had  designed  and  exe-  cuted  it  himself.  I  showed  him  the  in-  scription.  'Mastro  Paragon  Coppella  was  d'Annunzio.  Didn't  you  know  that?'  I  said.  To  my  amazement,  the  jeweller  then  described  to  me  exactly  what  sort  of  box  the  brooch  had  been  in.  'I  am  sorry  to  disillusion  you,  Signora,'  he  concluded.  'But  this  brooch  was  made  by  us  in  Florence  some  years  ago.  It  was  one  of  many  similar  orders  placed  regularly  with  us  by  Gabriele  d'  Annunzio.  &quot;  Mammina  Ester  sighed  a  little  sadly.  &quot;So  perhaps,  caro  mipote,  he  was  a  little  bit  of  a  fraud  after  all,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Though  certainly  he  will  always  be  among  the  immortals.&quot; "