 b"IN MY LIFE, I HAVE KNOWN TWO VERY OLD men.  The  oldest  one  I  didn't  know  really,  forI  never  even  spoke  with  him.  For  a  time,  he  lived  across  the  street  from  me  in  Aix-en-[REDACTED],  so  placed  that  I  could  look  over  at  him  from  my  room  on  the  fourth  floor.  He  was  one  hundred  and  four,  and  when  he  died  the  funeral  procession  was  very  long,  from  his  house  to  the  church  and  then  to  the  cemetery,  made  up  of  peo-  ple  who  only  knew  of  him  because  he  was  the  oldest  man  in  Aix  and  perhaps  in  [REDACTED],  and  because  they  felt  a  kind  of  personal  pride  or  vindication  inthat.  Dead,  he  must  have  been  tiny,  judging  by  the  size  of  the  coffin  I  looked  curi-  ously  and  sorrowfully  down  upon  from  my  peephole  on  the  fourth  floor.  Alive,  he  seemed  merely  small  and  light,  sit-  ting  in  a  wing  chair  reading,  with  white  mittens  on  his  hands.  At  mealtimes,  he  wore  a  large  white  bib,  but  his  man-  ners  were  slowly  meticulous,  and  he  smiled  and  talked  in  a  lively,  twinkling  way  with  his  ancient  daughter,  who  pot-  tered  about  himand  served  the  food  on  his  small  wheeled  table.  I  missed  him  when  he  died  and  the  shutters  were  closed  inhis  room  and  through  them  shone  the  dim  light  of  the  candles  at  his  head  and  feet.  I  had  never  heard  his  voice,  or  touched  his  hand.  The  oldest  man  I  really  knew  was  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  Connes.  My  two  teen-age  daugh-  ters,  Anne  and  Mary,  and  I  visited  him  in  his  hun-  dredth  year;  for  four  days,  we  actually  lived  with  him.  Before  our  visit,  I  had  met  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  several  times  at  the  home  of  his  son  Georges,  in  Dijon;  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  spent  half  of  each  yearwith  Georges,  the  other  half  with  a  daughter-  in-law  in  Normandy.  I  had  known  Georges  for  forty  years.  He  was  Dean  of  the  Faculty  of  Letters  at  the  university,  and  I  had  once  gone  to  school  there,  with  Georges  as  my  professor.  After  that,  I  visited  him  and  his  wife,  Henriette,  in  that  Burgundian  town,  but  I  saw  little  of  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9.  I  was  shy  of  his  remote  courtesy  and  his  great  age.  Every  night,  he  played  bezique  with  his  son,  and  at  meals  he  pulled  out  my  chair  for  me  and  then  served  with  ceremony  and  skill  some  special  little  dish  he  had  IN  my  life,  I  have  known  two  very  old  bought  on  his  long  afternoon  walk:  a  terrine  of  pat\xc3\xa9  from  [REDACTED],  a  tin  of  white  tuna  from  Nantes.  He  ate  with  the  slow  nicety  of  a  fastidious  old  man,  and  as  he  kissed  both  my  cheeks  when  I  left  for  Aix  I  noticed  that  he  smelled  fresh  and  powdery.  Anne  and  Mary  had  met  him,  too.  I  had  presented  them  to  him  in  Dijon-a  quick  meeting  that  they  remembered  be-  cause  he  bowed  low  over  their  hands  and  told  them  without  a  smile  that  he  re-  gretted  having  lost  all  but  one  tooth,  because  he  liked  to  be  &quot;well  appointed&quot;  when  he  met  charming  ladies.  It  was  five  or  six  years  after  this  meeting  that  Georges  invited  the  three  of  us  to  visit  him  and  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  in  their  natal  village,  Le  Truel,  in  the  Aveyron,  where  the  two  men  went  every  spring  as  soon  as  it  grew  warm  enough.  Henriette,  busy  with  her  teaching  at  the  Girls'  Lyc\xc3\xa9e,  re-  mained  in  Dijon.  The  visit  was  planned  well  over  a  year  in  advance,  the  details  of  our  meeting  requiring  an  arduous  schedule  of  letters.  Georges  was  to  meet  us  in  Montpellier,  and  he  instructed  me  fussily  about  trains  and  buses  from  Aix  to  that  city.  Then  I  looked  closely  at  my  Michelin  map  of  the  Aveyron  and  decided  that  I  could  not  stand  the  pros-  pect  of  a  ride  as  long  as  from  Montpellier  to  Le  Truel  with  Georges,  for  he  is  probably  the  most  eccentric  driver  I  have  ever  ridden  with.  So  I  hired  M.  Lov  in  Aix  to  drive  us  in  his  taxi,  and  I  picked  a  small  town  called  Lod\xc3\xa9ve,  hours  nearer  Le  Truel  as  Georges  would  drive,  and  told  him  that  friends  were  driving  us  and  would  leave  us  at  the  bus  stop  there  at  a  certain  time.  Georges  was  plainly  overjoyed,  and  I  could  understand  why  when  we  made  the  eight-hour  hop  from  Lod\xc3\xa9ve  to  Le  Truel;  it  would  have  taken  him  at  least  twelve  hours,  each  way,  had  he  met  us,  as  he  first  so  generously  suggested,  in  Montpellier.  M.  Lov'  picked  us  up  in  his  second-  best  taxi  after  lunch  one  Friday  in  May.  We  took  two  large  suitcases  along  with  us,  and  a  big  basket  full  of  cherries  and  cheeses-Camembert  and  Gruyere,  which  Georges  had  once  told  me  were  hard  come  by  there  in  the  Roquefort  country.  We  stopped  at  an  inn  in  Lod\xc3\xa9ve  overnight,  and  the  next  morn-  ing,  after  breakfast,  we  carried  our  bags  and  the  large  smelly  basket  down  the  road  a  few  yards  to  the  bus  stop.  We  sat  half  out  into  the  road,  so  that  Georges  could  not  miss  us.  It  felt  fine  to  be  in  the  shade  and  sun  of  the  pale  trees,  and  we  did  not  feel  we  had  been  waiting  too  long  when,  around  eleven  o'clock,  he  drew  up  in  his  dusty  2  CV.  Before  he  had  even  killed  the  engine,  he  announced  that  we  must  do  a  few  er-  rands  in  town.  Ceremoni-  ously,  and  with  the  extra  pomposity  that  for  Georges  marks  unusual  emotion  and  perhaps  nervousness,  he  changed  his  big  beret  for  a  hat,  his  espadrilles  for  shoes,  and  his  knitted  jacket  for  a  surprisingly  loud  tweed  one.  He  handed  us  some  baskets  from  the  back  of  the  car  and  then  care-  fully  fitted  our  things  into  place,  meanwhile  scolding  us  for  bringing  cherries  when  his  trees  were  full  of  them,  and  cheeses  when  it  was  a  foolish  extravagance.  We  tagged  along  after  him  about  a  mile  to  the  coveredmarket,  where  he  asked  me  to  choose  &quot;a  fine  fat  chicken,&quot;  and  I  pre-  tended  to  and  then  pretend-  ed  not  to  see  his  look  of  ab-  ject  dismay  when  across  the  street  he  saw  a  caterer's  shop  full  of  prettily  roasted  ones,  and  on  to  the  \xc3\xa9cono-  d  mat,  where  he  bought  four  " b"tins  of  quenelles  de  brochet  with  a  sei-  gnorial  air  of  disdain.  &quot;These  cost  too  little  to  be  good,&quot;  he  said  loftily  to  the  huge  old  woman  waiting  on  him.  Then  we  went  to  three  tobacco  shops,  where,  finally,  in  the  piles  of  magazines  about  dream  interpretations  and  movie  ro-  mances,  he  found  a  copy  of  Les  Now-  velles  Litt\xc3\xa9ratres.  Then  we  went  to  a  pastry  shop,  where  he  bought  two  very  dry-looking  large  cakes,  one  a  local  specialty  of  brioches  curled  and  pressed  and  glazed  into  a  form  to  imitate  a  pan  of  baked  apples.  (These  two  cakes  turnedup  at  every  meal  but  breakfast  for  three  days,  and  we  finished  them  both  off  before  we  left,  in  a  cloud  of  crumbs.)  And  then  we  straggled  back  to  the  car,  and  we  packed  ourselves  and  the  tins  and  the  chicken  and  the  cakes  here  and  there  in  it  and  jounced  and  jolted  away.  Georges  still  drove  his  car  as  if  he  had  never  before  sat  behind  its  wheel,  al-  though  he  had  clocked  some  seventy-  five  thousand  kilometres  on  it.  All  the  way  to  his  place,  hedrove  at  between  twelve  and  twenty-five  kilometres  an  hour,  though  once,  going  down  a  steep  slope,  we  reached  the  mad  speed  of  forty.  The  slowness  was  all  to  the  good,  for  Georges  prefers  to  drive  either  in  the  middle  or  on  the  left  side  of  the  road,  and  somehow  the  trucks,  buses,  and  sports  carsthat  approached  us  seemed  to  sense  our  situation  and  do  everything  but  plunge  into  the  almost  continuous  gorges  to  help  us  get  past  them.  Georges  was  then  well  past  seventy,  and  he  has  never  been  involved  in  any  kind  of  accident,  although  he  drives  from  Dijon  to  Le  Truel  several  times  a  year-a  dis-  tance  of  perhaps  three  hundred  miles-  taking  three  days  and  nights  each  way.  HE  Aveyron  is  at  the  lower  tip  of  the  Massif  Central.  It  is  made  up  mainly  of  high,  flat  tablelands  called  causses,  cut  this  way  and  that  by  pro-  found  gorges.  Some  of  these  brutal  river-made  cracks  are  wide  enough  to  shelter  little  villages  like  Le  Truel.  Others  are  wild  canyons  honeycombed  with  grottoes  and  fantastic  caves,  like  Les  Gorges  du  Tarn,  and  spelunkers  love  them  and  Englishmen  practice  mountain-climbing  in  them.  And  on  the  windy  mesas,  covered  with  sparse  mead-  owlands  and  dense  prickly  maquis  like  our  juniper  flats  in  western  [REDACTED],  there  are  countless  flocks  of  ewes,  to  make  the  Roquefort  cheese  that  is  the  great  product  of  that  part  of  the  coun-  try.  There  are  wide,  shallow  bowls  sunk  into  the  sandy  soil  for  the  sheep  to  drink  at.  Some  of  these  bowls  are  much  older  than  the  Romans,  perhaps  Celtic  or  Gallic.  They  are  made  of  artfully  fitted  cobbles,so  that  the  sheep  cannot  slip  as  they  drink,  and  there  are  a  few  modern  ones  designed  in  concrete  with  the  same  ridges,  to  catch  the  beasts'  hoofs.  To  get  from  one  causse  to  another,  a  travel-  ler  must  descend  and  then  mount  the  sides  of  the  gorges-and  so  we  did,  un-  counted  times,  in  the  dogged  little  car.  At  noon,  we  pulled  into  a  village  where,  on  the  way  down,  Georges  had  ordered  lunch  for  us.I  had  not  been  in  such  a  country  dining  room  for  perhaps  thirty  years,  in  [REDACTED]  anyway-bright,  plain;  a  taciturn  waitress;  a  few  motor-  ists  and  drummers  and  a  crew  of  raven-  ous  road  engineers.  And  we  ate  exactly  what  I  would  have  been  served  so  long  ago:  local  sausage  in  thick  slices,  with  good  bread  and  olives;  a  stew  of  morsels  of  veal  in  a  respectable  sauce,  with  Camargue  rice;  big  saut\xc3\xa9ed  pork  chops,  with  tinned  peas  cooked  with  bacon,  and  a  green  salad;  cheeses;  strawberries.  It  was  a  thoroughly  heavy  stodgy  high-  cholesterol  meal,  and  we  ate  it  like  healthy  hounds.  We  were  about  thirty-  five  hundred  feet  up,  of  course.  Once  outside  the  village,  we  took  off  over  the  moors.  It  was  windy  and  bright.  The  broom  was  in  full  bloom,  as  it  had  been  all  the  way  from  Aix,but  this  high  it  was  more  brilliant,  and  we  caught  puffs  of  its  heavy  honey  smell.  We  drove  for  many  miles  before  we  joined  the  main  road,  and  then  went  past  a  village  where  the  Templars  once  kept  all  their  sick  and  wounded,  and  through  a  town  where  they  stabled  their  horses.  Once,  we  drove  slowly  past  a  dolmen,  the  only  one  I  had  seen  except  at  Stonchenge.  It  gave  me  the  same  atavistic  prickle  of  awe.  It  was  very  simple-a  table  of  three  stones,  standing  about  ten  feet  high.  Then,  in  a  while,  we  wound  down  and  down,  up  again,  down.  Then  we  went  up.  We  stopped  at  a  village  called  Saint-  Victor,  where  many  of  Georges'  rela-  tives  lived  and  where  we  met  theblack-  smith,  a  cousin.  He  was  greasing  a  plow.  Georges  went  to  get  bread,  for  there  has  " b"not  been  a  baker  at  Le  Truel  for  some  thirty  years,  and  he  sent  Anne  and  Mary  and  me  on  to  the  chapel,  where,  he  said,  we  would  be  astonished.  True  enough,  I  have  seldom  been  more  so.  Every  inch  of  its  simple  hollow  had  been  painted,  and  not  more  than  ten  years  before,  by  a  wandering  Russian  who  agreed  to  do  it  for  so  much  the  square  foot,  right  onto  the  clean  plaster,  from  his  own  ideas.  Legend  says  (Georges'  cousin,  for  instance)  that  the  painter  did  the  whole  thing  alone,  and  in  twenty-eight  days.  This  seems  pos-  sible;  the  technique  is  very  slick  and  fast  and  expert,  like  that  of  a  highly  trained  illustrator  for  popular  magazines.  The  colors  are  limited,  with  blues  and  browns  predominant.  But  the  whole  thing  has  what  seems  like  an  inspired  rhythm,  as  if  the  artist  were  really  up-  lifted  and  full  of  praise  for  the  stories  he  was  picturing.  Probably  he  was  hungry,  too,  for  the  theme  of  nourishing  and  feeding  is  everywhere:  Moses  with  the  manna,  the  Wedding  Feast,  the  Loaves  and  Fishes,  and,  of  course,  the  Last  Supper.  It  was  like  being  inside  a  fine-  ly  illustrated  children's  book-pictures  everywhere,  at  every  angle,  and  in  such  fresh,  clear  colors.  All  the  symbolism  was  simple,  as  for  children.  We  went  back  through  the  cold  bright  wind  to  the  2  CV,  to  the  enormous  loaf  of  warm  new  bread,  which  Georges  put  on  Anne's  lapfor  want  of  any  more  space,  and  to  one  more  descent  into  the  nar-  row  valley  ofthe  Tarn.  Georges  has  many  slow,  almost  hypnotic  rituals.  For  one,  he  carries  an  undistinguished  old  carved  box  every-  where,  tied  shut  with  a  piece  of  grimy  string.  In  it  are  his  spectacles  in  a  shabby  case,  tobacco  loose  in  the  bottom  (Gau-  loise  Bleue),  a  book  of  white  silk  ciga-  rette  paper  with  an  elastic  band  around  it,  and  a  little  gadget  for  rolling  ciga-  rettes.  He  takes  fifteen  or  twenty  min-  utes  to  roll  one,  and  if  he  wishes  to  smoke  it  more  slowly  than  usual  he  makes  it  with  two  thicknesses  ofthe  silk  paper.  After  a  meal,  he  extravagantly  lets  the  tobacco  bulge  out  at  the  fire  end,  sothat  it  makes  an  odorous  torch  for  a  few  seconds  when  he  lights  it.  Once,  on  the  ride  to  Le  Truel,  he  slowed  to  a  stop-not  difficult  at  our  speed-  and  said  that  this  was  the  spot  where  he  always  halted  for  exactly  threepuffs  on  a  cigarette.  There  was  a  sign:  &quot;Roque-  fort,  23  km.&quot;  We  felt  very  gay  and  silly,  drunk  on  the  thin  pure  air,  and  we  laughed  and  said,  &quot;What,  not  four  today,  this  high  holiday?&quot;  Georges  agreed  that  perhaps  it  might  be  four  for  this  once,  and  he  went  on  slowly,  precisely,  with  his  little  ritual.   Then  he  tidied  the  box,  knotted  the  string  about  it,  and  put  it  in  the  open  space  that  in  more  elegant  cars  is  a  glove  compartment,  and  took  his  first  long,  slow  pull.  It  seemed  at  least  a  minute  before  he  exhaled  through  the  open  window.  &quot;One,&quot;  he  said  loudly,  and  took  another  drag.  He  took  exactly  four,  and  we  burst  out  laughing  and  cheering,  and  then  he  tossed  the  half-smoked  cigarette  onto  the  road,  started  the  car,  and  we  bounced  off  again.  It  was  for  some  reason  funny  and  also  startlingy-  such  a  nonchalant,  careless  gesture  at  the  end  of  such  a  careful  pattern,  It  was  growing  dark,  and  down  at  the  bottom  of  the  Tarn  valley  by  the  swift  black  river  it  was  cold,  the  way  mountains  always  are  when  the  sun-  light  goes.  We  passed  a  long  narrow  house,  with  the  little  road  in  front  of  it,  and  then  the  river,  and  straight  up  be-  hind  it  the  cliff.  There,  said  Georges,  was  where  he  had  left  his  father  for  the  day,  with  a  niece.  There  was  not  space to  park,  so  we  drove  on  down  the  one-  way  road  to  an  abandoned  powerhouse,  where  Georges  turned  the  car  around  and  I  picked  some  red  roses  and  we  looked  farther  down  the  Tarn  to  the  new  electrical  plant-an  enormous  and  quite  beautiful  white  thing  of  dams  and  outlets,  with  the  generators  and  all  the  mysterious  machines  and  cables  back  of  it.  Then  we  walked  back  to  the  house  to  salute  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9.  He  and  his  elderly  niece  came  down  the  stairs  of  the  long  thin  house.  He  walked  slowly  but  surely.  He  had  on  the  mountain  beret,  like  Georges',  wider  and  floppier  than  those  worn  in  the  low-  lands.  His  eyes  were  large  and  bright,  and  his  one  tooth,  straight  in  the  middle  of  his  lower  jaw,  was  strong,  tall,  and  brown.  He  embraced  me  warmly,  and  then  instead  of  making  the  courtly  bow  Anne  and  Mary  were  prepared  for  he  kissed  them  on  their  cheeks,  saying  to  each  of  them,  &quot;Bonjour,  ma  belle.&quot;  We  were  in  Le  Truel,  not  Dijon.  Georges  introduced  us  to  the  niece,  a  little  hunchbacked  widow  with  a  sweet  smile,  who  had  been  a  schoolteacher.  She  and  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  had  been  making  cherry  pre-  serves.  They  went  back  into  the  house,  for  plainly  the  2  CV  could  not  have  held  or  pulled  a  bigger  load,  and  we  started  off  again.  Georges  would  return  for  his  father.  The  village  of  Le  Truel,  which  has  " b"a  postbox,  a  tobacco-and-general-mer-  chandise  store,  and  a  caf\xc3\xa9,  with  houses  for  what  used  to  be  six  or  seven  hundred  people,  though  they  now  hold  less  than  two  hundred,  is  crouched  along  the  south  bank  of  the  Tarn,  a  treacherous  river,  which  the  people  there  speak  of  as  a  person:  &quot;''Tarn  is  high  today.&quot;  &quot;Tarn  needs  rain.&quot;  We  started  up-straight  up  almost  a  thousand  feet-to  Georges'  house.  The  road  is  really  ghastly.  In  four  kilometres  of  single-track  gravelled  surface,  there  are  eleven  hairpin  turns.  There  is  not  even  an  occasional  boulder  between  the  edge  of  the  road  and  the  Tarn,  which,  by  the  time  one  reaches  Les  P\xc3\xa9narderies-  the  name  of  the  Connes  property-is  like  a  black  snake  almost  straight  below.  The  last  part  of  the  road  was  the  worst,  for,  in  order  to  make  the  sharp  turn  to  the  right  and  Zown\xc2\xbbn  into  his  place,  Georges  had  to  goon  along  a  very  nar-  row  trail  through  a  kind  of  copse,  but  with  the  river  still  right  below,  widening  out  above  the  dam  into  a  still,  chill,  metallic  lake,  until  we  came  to  a  place  where  he  nonchalantly  started  to  back  and  fill.  I  could  not  keep  down  a  memo-  ry  that  I  had  resolutely  smothered  ever  since  we  decided  to  visit  him,  of  the  day  in  1955  when  he  stalled  his  engine  in  the  middle  of  an  unlawful  U  turn  on  the  Route  Nationale,  in  the  village  of  Palette,  near  Aix.  Diesel  trucks  sped  down  onto  us  from  both  directions,  and  the  drivers  swerved  cursing  past.  And  then  Georges  put  his  car  into  reverse  instead  of  first  and  shot  backward  across  the  highway,  and  it  was  one  of  the  most  horrified  moments  of  my  life.  Now  I  was  halfway  up  a  perpendicular  moun-  tain  with  nothing  but  a  few  spindly  branches  between  me  and  the  drop  to  the  Tarn  River,  and  at  the  same  instant  I  was  on  the  highway  in  Palette  waiting  for  Georges  to  kill  his  engine.  Which  he  did,  both  times.  But  he  did  not  go  into  reverse  now.  We  got  to  his  house  in  about  ten  more  minutes,  and  my  legs  almost  buckled  when  I  climbed  out  of  the  little  car  onto  the  thickshort  turf.  Georges  said,  &quot;How  about  a  nice  liitle  drink  for  everybody  after  our  ride?&quot;  and  we  thundered  up  the  steps  and  through  the  small  hallway  into  the  kitchen.  I  had  never  needed  a  good  strong  shot  of  liquor  more.  But  no,there  was,  instead,  a  precise  setting  out  of  glasses  in  the  other  downstairs  room,  which  was  the  dining  room-salon  and,  occasionally,  with  the  beautiful  little  couch  in  one  corner,  a  bedroom.  T'wo  bottles  of  Perrier  were  slowly  brought  up  from  the  cellar  below  the  kitchen.  They  were  dusted  and  uncorked.  A  bottle  of  non-alcoholic  Cassis  de  Dijon  was  opened,  a  half  inch  was  poured  into  each  glass,  and  the  glasses  were  filled  with  water.  And  then  we  toasted  our  arrival,  and  I  tried  to  keep  my  hand  from  shaking.  Georges  pulled  out  again.  He  told  me  later  that  in  normal  driving  he  averaged  about  two  minutes  per  kilo-  metre  but  that  on  the  road  between  Le  Truel  and  his  place,  either  up  or  down,  he  counted  on  at  least  ten  minutes  per  kilometre,  or  roughly  four  miles  per  hour.  The  road  had  been  built  only  about  five  years  before-it  was  simply  a  bare  gravelled  path,  but  at  least  there  were  no  ruts-and  until  it  was  built  by  the  commune  and  the  national  govern-  ment  anyone  who  wanted  to  get  to  Les  P\xc3\xa9narderies  walked,  or  rodea  mule.  For  hundreds  of  years  it  was  that  way.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  was  born  there,  and  from  there  walked  to  the  next  village,  Asseynes,  where  he  could  learn  French  in  the  one-room  school,  for  in  Le  Truel  ev-  eryone  spoke  Rouergat,  one  of  the  Langue  d'0Oc  dialects.  IT  was  easy  to  find  my  way  around.  Les  P\xc3\xa9narderies  is  built  like  a  stone  doll's  house,  with  four  exactly  similar  rooms,  two  up  and  two  down,and  a  stair  in  the  middle,  narrowing  up  to  an  airy  attic  and  down  to  the  cellars.  There  is  a  grass  terrace  in  front,  which  falls  off  almost  violently  to  the  Tarn,  a  thousand  feet  below.  From  the  ter-  race,  the  main  floor  is  reached  bya  longish  flight  of  stone  steps  with  an  iron  railing,  which  continues  around  one  corner  ofthe  house  to  become  a  bal-  cony.  A  low  wing,  built  over  a  slope,  juts  out  from  the  house  to  the  east.  For  years,  I  had  been  a  familiar  there,  from  the  image  kept  clear  in  my  inner  view  by  snapshots,  postcards,  talk.  And  there  was  the  &quot;publicity  card&quot;  Georges  had  ordered  printed  in  some  nearby  town  like  Roquefort,  which  he  sent  with  " b"jaunty  cynicism  to  his  prolific  relatives  and  enduring  friends:  Les  P\xc3\xa9narderies  Inn  Le  Truel  (Aveyron,  Altitude  550  m.)  Sky-high  Operating  Since  1404  A.D.  Albert,  Georges,  Pierre,  and  Yves  Connes,  Proprietors  Impregnable  view  over  the  Tarn  valley  Every  comfort,  solitude,  repose,  private  library,  silence  The  only  inn  in  the  world  without  tele-  phone,  radio  and  television  The  chef's  own  cooking!  Prices  challenging  all  rivals  YOU  WILL  COME  BACK!  When  I  last  got  one  of  Georges  notes  on  the  back  of  this  jaunty  card,  Albert,  our  dear  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9,  had  left  the  earth,  and  Georges  was  in  his  mid-  seventies,  and  his  son,  Pierre,  was  a  famous  nuclear  physicist,  and  Pierre's  son,  Yves,  was  a  sturdy  [REDACTED]  child,  but  when  I  saw  the  place  that  May  day,  all  I  knew  was  that  it  was  time  for  my  girls  and  me  t  o  be  there,  to  put  a  way  ou  r  few  clothes,  and  make  our  b  eds  with  the  clean  linen  and  blankets  George  s  had  put  ou  t  f  or  us.  We  began  wit  h  mine.  I  was  to  sleep  upstairs  in  the  house,  in  Georges'  ro  om,  which  is  above  the  kitchen  and  across  from  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9's  room,  which  is  above  the  salon  .  My  room  had  a  generous  wash-  bowl  with  cold  running  water,  and  a  reading  light  by  the  big  bed,  and  two  armoires  filled  wit  h  books,  broken  belts,  sc  rap  s  of  wrapping  paper  to  use  again  sometime,  odd  socks,  and  the  general  c  ollectio  n  of  a  self-c  ontai  ned  man.  There  were  two  windows.  I  looked  straight  across  the  high  na  rrow  carton,  as  the  great  ravines  are  ca  lle  d  there,  into  t  he  wild  woods  of  the  north  bank  o  f  the  Tarn,  a  thick  tangl  e  of  chestnut  trees,  &quot;  s     oaks,  and  the  strong  low  trees  and  brambles  and  vines  that  make  u  p  the  maquis  and  that  shelter  the  fox,  the  badger.  There  was  a  path  cu  t  t  hroug  h  this  otherwise  primeval  growth,  I  lea  rned  later,  but  it  was  invisible  except  at  the  two  ends  of  the  great  steep  bank  ,  wher  e  it  mounted  at  one  end  from  the  villag  e  of  Le  Truel  and  eme  rged  at  the  other  to  lea  d  to  the  separate  peak  whe  re  stood  a  tall  whit  e  statue  -no  bigger  than  a  thick  pin  to  my  eyes-of  43616e616461Dame  du  D\xc3\xa9sert.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  had  one  big  window  in  his  room.  He  slept  in  a  fine  old  carved  bed,  in  whic  h  he  had  been  bo  rn,  under  a  high  feather  puff  co  vered  with  worn  brown  silk.  There  were  two  carved  armoires,  and  the  rest  of  the  wall  space  was  covered  with  pi  ctures:  his  father  in  uniform  in  1870,  his  parents  on  their  wedding  day,  sta  ring  children  dressed  in  everything  from  crinolines  to  bikinis,  It  was  very  tidy  th  ere,  and  smelled  nice.  All  this  we  discovered  at  once,  for  I  felt  it  right  to  go  everywhere-not  snoopily  but  with  real  curiosity  :  it  was  a  house  we  had  read  about  all  our  lives.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9's  room,  like  mine,  had  a  big  wash-  b  owl  in  it  with  cold  running  wat  er,  which  was  also  piped  to  the  kitchen  and  to  a  flush  toilet  at  the  end  of  th  e  balcony  around  the  corner  of  the  house,  whe  re  onc  e  the  family  outhouse  had  been.  (When  Georges  re-  tired  from  his  job  as  Dean  of  the  Fac  ulty  of  Letters  in  Dijon,  the  village  asked  him  po-  litel  y  to  serv  e  as  mayor,  beca  use  by  then  he  was  f  amous  as  a  hero  of  the  Occupation  who  had  been  acting  mayor  of  the  town  when  the  Liberation  came.  He  declined  as  politely,  in-  sisting,  at  least  to  his  family,  that  the  real  reason  for  the  late  and  perhaps  dubious  honor  was  not  his  war  record  but  the  immediate  fact  that  he  had  installed  a  flush  toilet  and  must  therefore  be  very  rich  as  well  as  clever.)  As  " b" is  often  the  case  with  these  secluded  and  contemplative  locations,  the  view  was  vast  and  beautiful  from  the  seat,  through  the  wide  door  that  was  almost  always  left  open.  Up  from  the  bedrooms,  a  steep,  nar-  row  staircase  led  to  the  attic.  I  climbed  it  with  Mary.  The  room  was  as  long  as  the  house,  with  an  arched  window  at  each  end,  and  a  dusty  board  floor,  a  couple  of  old  trunks,  a  pile  of  tattered  magazines.  It,  too,  had  a  good  smell,  and  there  were  a  few  dry  delicate  mouse  droppings,  and  right  at  the  head  of  the  stairs  there  was  a  dead  little  animal,  his  head  flattened  by  the  strong  wire  of  a  snap  trap.  He  was  a  rat,  but  not  like  any  I  had  ever  seen;  he  had  long  soft  fur  colored  brown,  white,  and  black,  like  a  calico  cat,  and  a  furry  tail.  Anne  came  up  and  observed  him  sadly.  I  vetoed  saying  anything  to  Georges  about  it,  in  a  sudden  qualm  of  embarrassment  at  our  exploring  during  his  trip  down  the  gorge  for  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9,  and  we  closed  the  door  respectfully  on  the  small  corpse  and  went  to  make  the  girls'  beds.  Under  the  balcony,  there  was  an  airy,  neat  cellar,  one  of  two  rooms  on  what  was  literally  the  ground  floor,  of  solid  earth  as  hard  and  cool  as  marble  and  not  much  dustier.  Wide  arched  door-  ways  opened  onto  the  grass  terrace,  and  in  the  room  next  to  the  cellar  Georges  stabled  the  2  CV  where  once  had  been  the  family  herd  of  sheep,  with  their  food  bins  still  at  the  back.  Higher,  in  the  little  wing  but  still  on  the  ground  floor  (here  boarded  over),  the  mule's  room  had  been  made  into  an  airy  chamber  where  Georges  was  sleeping  in  order  to  give  me  the  luxury  of  his  washbowl.  Back  of  it,  higher  still  and  with  an  even  lower  ceiling,  was  the  old  loft,  where  Anne  and  Mary  were  to  sleep.  It  was  reached  by  stone-and-grass  steps,  and  it  con-  tained  one  door  and  one  window,  two  cots,  a  straight  chair,  a  nightstand  with  a  reading  light  on  it,  a  little  table  with  a  washbowl,  and,  under  it,  two  pitchers  of  water.  Anne  said  that  she  felt  like  Heidi.  Then  there  were  the  two  big  rooms  on  the  main  floor,  separated  by  a  little  hallway.  The  salon,  to  the  right,  was  dark  and  hospitable,  with  a  fireplace,  a  wall  covered  with  books,  a  fine  Empire  couch  with  a  shabby  dark  silk  shawl  on  it,  a  big  oblong  table  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  many  straight  solid  chairs,  photographs  and  maps,  and  awkwardly  painted  pictures  of  things  important  in  the  family.  The  floors  were  of  dark-red  tile  everywhere  on  this  level.  And  to  the  left  was  the  kitchen.  It  was  painted  white,  with  gray  trimmings,  and  under  the  enormous  chimney,  still  with  its  spits  and  chains  hanging  on  " b'movable  arms  that  would  swing  out  over  the  hearth  fire  in  the  early  days,  were  three  small  stoves,  two  of  them  |_  butane-and  __  table  models-electric,  the  biggest  one  for  wood.  There  was  a  good  plain  sink.  A  cooler  and  a  cup-  board  set  into  the  stone  walls  held  the  minimum  of  food  supplies  in  cans  and  |_  ___  old  glass  jars,  and  a  cracked  mess  of  china  that  reminded  me  of  all  the  shabby  ___  rubbish  that  we  used  to  keep  at  our  summer  house  in  Laguna  when  I  was  a  child:  cups  without  handles,  chipped  platters,  bent  forks,  and  dented  old  |  saucepans  that  would  tip  and  dribble.  GEORGES  got  supper  that  night,  in  his  own  slow  rhythm.  (Once,  he  had  said  blandly,  dispassionately,  to  me,  &quot;Of  course,  I  am  a  secret  person.&quot;  He  had  described  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  as  &quot;imperturbable,&quot;  but  Georges,  too,  has  some  of  that  deliberate  detachment  about  him,  remote  from  clocks,  human  hungers.)  The  supper  was  really  not  very  good,  with  a  watery  packaged  soup,  and  then,  perhaps  half  an  hour  later,  an  omelette  burnedon  the  outside  and  too  thin  everywhere  else,  although  I  know  Georges  meant  it  to  be  better.  But  our  first  attack  on  the  huge  loaf  of  bread,  still  slightly  warm,  was  worth  the  long  wait,  and  we  all  felt  very  friendly  and  merry.  We  drank  part  of  a  bottle  of  the  local  red  wine.  We  finished  the  Aix  cherries  and  started  on  the  bowl  Georges  and  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  had  picked  the  day  before  and  ate  some  cheese,  and  by  ten  we  were  in  bed,  We  each  had  three  blankets,  which,  when  I  helped  Anne  and  Mary  make  our  beds,  I  thought  ridiculous.  We  finished  the  beds  with  two,  and  I  folded  the  extra  ones  and  laid  them  aside,  sure  we  would  not  use  them.  But  the  first|  __  night  proved  me  wrong.  The  nights  were  not  chilly  but  cold,  down  to  six  or  eight  above  zero-centigrade,  of  course-from  a  pleasant  twenty-five  or  |  twenty-eight  during  the  day.  The  air  was  thin,  too.  And  all  the  windows  of  the  house  stayed  open,  and  the  hearth  __  in  the  salon  stayed  cold  and  bare.  I  got  up  in  desperation  and  put  my  third  blanket  on  too  late,  for  I  was  cold  into  my  marrow.  By  morning  I  was  wear-  ing  socks,  and  a  sweater  over  my  pajamas.  (The  next  night,  I  started  out  in  that  rig,  as  soon  asI  could  decently  leavethe  supper  table  and  the  salon  somewhat  warmed  by  four  other  healthy  people,  and  by  dawn  I  could  kick  off  the  socks;  and  the  girls  told  me  they  had  double-folded  their  blankets  and  slept  happily  under  all  six  back-  cracking  thicknesses.  The  nights  were  fine,  though,  with  good  dreams  and  many  gentle  half-awakenings  to  listen ' b"to  the  river  far  below,  a  little  breeze,  the  cuckoos  before  daylight.  My  girls  heard  a  nightingale  once,  but  I  did  not,  though  I  did  see  a  cuckoo  fly  one  day  from  a  tall  chestnut  tree.  I  was  congratulated,  for  it  is  said  to  be  an  elusive  bird.  It  was  surprisingly  large,  and  I  thought  clumsy  :  gray  with  some  black  and  white  on  it.)  The  first  morning,  we  started  a  joke  that  lasted  until  we  left.  Georges  ap-  peared  with  the  little  dead  rat  soon  after  breakfast,  and  asked  us  how  we  could  possibly  not  have  heard  it  during  the  night.  &quot;How  soundly  you  city  people  must  have  slept  in  this  poor  hut,&quot;  he  kept  marvelling  in  his  professorial  way.  &quot;And  here  is  my  poor  old  father  who  complains  of  sleeping  lightly,  and  boasts  ||  of  his  perfect  hearing!  Surely  you  heard  this  poor  creature's  last  agony,  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9?&quot;  He  described  at  length  how  a  trapped  rat  must  and  always  does  sound.  &quot;Even  with  the  quickest  and  most  humane  snap  of  the  trap,&quot;  he  finished,  &quot;there  is  one  big  thump  as  the  animal  dies.  And  quite  often  there  is  a  series  of  thumps,  crashes,  and  even  screams,  depending  on  how  the  trap  has  been  sprung,  and  where  on  the  little  body.  Yes,  oftenthere  are  sharp,  high  cries.  Occasionally,  itis  necessary  to  go  to  the  merciful  rescue  and,  with  infinite  caution,  catch  the  wounded  creature  and  do  away  with  it  by  other  means.&quot;  Yes,  it  was  indeed  as-  tonishing-in  fact,  almost  incredible-  that  neither  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  nor  a  sharp-eared,  sensitive  woman  like  me  had  heard  the  rat  as  the  trap  was  sprung  during  this  past  night!  It  never  once  occurred  to  Georges  that  the  macabre  event  could  and  obviously  did  happen  the  night  be-  fore,  when  he  himself  was  sleeping  inhis  own  room  under  the  attic.  Every  morn-  ing,  the  subject  was  opened  wide.  &quot;What?  No  more  agonized  thumpings  to  disturb  the  dainty  slumbers  of  you  townspeople?&quot;  Now  and  then,  he  would  shake  his  head  ponderously  and  tease  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  about  never  believing  him  again  when  he  complained  of  insomnia.  &quot;And  how  did  you  get  through  the  night?&quot;  he  would  ask  me.  &quot;Not  as  soundly  as  the  first  one,  of  course,  when  you  could  ignore  the  death  throes  right  above  your  head!&quot;  Georges  had  a  sign  on  the  door  into  the  kitchen:  &quot;No  Women  Allowed.&quot;  The  arrangement  when  he  was  alone  with  his  father  was  that  he  cooked  and  marketed  and  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  didthe  dishes.  He  agreed,  however,  to  let  me  take  over  the  kitchen  during  our  stay,  and  the  first  noon  we  ate  the  chicken  from  Lod&amp;ve,  which  I  roasted  with  some  anxiety  in  the  peculiar  little  electric  oven.  It  was  deli-  cious,  and  fun  for  me  to  be  cooking  " b"again  after  months  of  restaurants.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  sat  all  morning  at  the  big  kitchen  table,  while  I  puttered  about.  He  was  shelling  a  basket  of  peas  Georges  had  got  in  the  village  the  night  before,  and  mumbling  and  growling  because  they  were  indeed  too  young  to  be  picked-barely  a  bowl-  ful  at  the  end  of  his  two  hours  of  fastidi-  ous  labor.  He  promised  the  woman  who  had  fobbed  them  off  on  Georges  a  rare  talking-to  (she  was  the  widow  of  a  dis-  tant  cousin,  of  course),  and  meanwhile  he  scolded  his  son  whenever  that  young  fellow  of  seventy-four  came  into  earshot.  There  was  almost  nothing  in  the  kitchen  to  work  with.  It  was  interesting  to  try  to  cook  without  all  the  tools  and  supplies  that  I  take  for  granted  in  my  own  kitchens.  While  I  was  in  Le  Truel,  I  kept  wishing  with  real  regret  that  I  were  capable  of  living  in  such  continued  simplicity.  But  I  am  not.  Sometimes  I  honestly  want  to  live  in  a  plain  room  with  a  narrow  bed,  a  chair,  a  table.  But  then  I  would  need  a  bookcase.  I  would  see  a  poster  I  must  put  on  the  wall.  I  ||  would  pick  up  a  shell  here,  a  bowl  or  vase  there,  another  poster,  enough  books  for  two  bookcases,  a  soft  rug  someone  might  give  me-and  where  would  the  first  plainness  be?  I  cannot  fight  too  hard  against  it,  but  I  regret  it.  That  first  noon,  Mary  and  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  did  the  dishes  together,  and  she  was  as-  tounded  by  the  mixture  of  persnickety  and  sloppy  in  theold  man's  much  vaunted  method.  He  had  learned  it  in  Normandy,  he  told  us,  from  his  daugh-  ter-in-law.  It  was  based  upon  a  careful  _  balance  in  stacking,  he  said:  largest  plates  at  the  bottom,  and  so  on.  It  in-  volved  many  changes  of  water,  all  of  which  must,  at  Le  Truel,  be  heated  in  a  very  small  teakettle.  The  water  fairly  well  covered  the  floor,  the  sink,  and  one  wall  with  vague  splashings  and  drip-  pings;  the  table  was  a  great  puddle;  the  towels  could  be  wrung  out  halfway  through  the  ritual.  Buz,  Mary  told  me  with  pride,  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  the  Imperturbable  never  dropped  a  plate  or  spoon,  and  while  the  goblets  might  bea  little  smeary,  they  were  basically  clean.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9's  hands  were  surprising.  They  were  not  at  all  mottled  or  gnarled,  with  the  loose  papery  skin  one  expects  in  old  hands.  They  were  well  formed,  firm  and  sturdy  to  the  touch,  and  as  steady  as  a  healthy  young  man's-much  younger  in  every  way  than  Georges',  which  I  sometimes  felt  he  was  forcinghimself  to  keep  from  fumbling  and  clumsi-  ness,  when,  for  instance,  he  rolled  his  cigarettes.  I  realized  later  that  he  was  indeed  quite  nervous  and  shaky  about  being  alone  with  his  father.  One  day,  he  and " b"I  walked  out  to  the  little  bridge  that  went  over  the  huge  water  pipe  snaking  down  the  mountainside  to  the  northeast  of  Les  P\xc3\xa9narderies,  to  carry  water  from  the  upper  lakes  ofthe  Aveyron  down  to  the  electric  plant  on  the  Tarn.  It  is  a  silver-painted  tube  over  a  thousand  metres  long,  about  ten  feet  in  diameter  at  the  top  and  diminishing,  of  course,  at  the  bottom  for  pressure.  Georges  said  that  on  June  first  he  would  start  for  Normandy  and  the  daughter-in-law,  with  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9.  &quot;I  must  confess  that  once  I  have  settled  him  with  her,&quot;  he  said  in  his  sombre  yet  nonchalant  way,  &quot;and  have  got  myself  back  to  Dijon  alone,  I  shall  feel  an  enormous  relief.  It  is  a  foolhardy  thing  for  me  to  be  up  here,  hours  from  any  help,  with  a  man  as  old  as  my  father.  I  live  in  constant  ap-  prehension-a  fall,  a  chill.  Each  year  I  say  that  this  is  the  last  one.&quot;  I  could  not  help  thinking  that,  except  for  the  immediate  anguish  of  the  son,  it  would  be  a  fine  poetical  thing  for  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  to  be  able  to  die  in  the  same  strong,  plain  stone  house  where  a  hundred  years  before  he  had  been  born,  and  in  the  same  bed  in  the  room  above  the  mule  and  the  little  flock  of  sheep.  In  that  time,  every  family  in  the  Aveyron  had  a  flock  of  about  twenty,  for  wool,  meat,  milk.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9's  father,  like  a  Connes  of  every  generation,  was  a  blacksmith,  but  he  raised  his  family  on  the  food  he  scratched  from  the  part  of  the  moun-  tainside  that  was  his,  like  all  the  other  people  of  that  stern  country.  FOR  two  more  round  deep  days  and  three  more  glittering  cold  nights,  we  lived  high  above  the  black  river,  in  a  kind  of  dream.  Occasionally,  the  thin  air  would  be  filled  with  akind  of  hum-  ming  from  the  generators  far  below,  but  we  seemed  free  from  all  the  pulls  and  pressures  of  sound,  of  the  bells  and  sirens  and  alarms  that  kept  telling  us,  down  in  Aix,  to  move  faster  and  get  up  and  lie  down  and  run,  run,  run.  I  saw  the  girls  look  sweeter  before  my  eyes,  and  younger  and  gayer.  They  lay  in  the  grass,  and  climbed  the  cherry  tree,  and  moved  about  with  soft  words.  'They  washed  dishes  together,  and  swept  out  the  kitchen.  Their  hair,  like  mine,  took  on  a  softer,  glimmering  look.  Our  meals,  when  we  all  met  in  the  dark,  friendly  salon,  were  long  and  en-  joyable,  although  we  ate  lightly  and  drank  almost  nothing.  Georges  is  really  an  austere  person.  During  our  stay  he  opened  four  or  five  bottles  of  wine,  none  of  them  more  than  fairly  good,  but  we  did  not  finish  a  single  one.  He  is  not  at  all  stingy,  but  simply  ascetic.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  was  basically  a  much  more  open  " b"happy  nature.  One  night  at  supper,  he  saidto  Anne  and  Mary,  laughing  in  little  snorts,  with  his  eyes  very  bright,  &quot;Vive  la  gaiet\xc3\xa9!  That's  my  motto!  Yes,  and  it  always  has  been.  All  my  life  I  have  practiced  it.  I  love  to  be  gay.&quot;  Once,  I  asked  Georges  where  his  more  withdrawn  melancholic  character  came  from,  and  he  said  from  his  mother's  side.  She  was  a  quiet  woman,  very  well  read  for  her  time  and  social  level.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  inherited  from  Ais  father,  Georges'  grandfather,  his  happy  nature.  This  man  was  known  for  three  things  throughout  the  Aveyron,  where  he  was  one  of  the  few  literates  and,  like  my  own  grandfather  Holbrook,  kept  books  and  made  loans  and  so  on:  he  did  not  be-  lieve  in  the  Immaculate  Conception;  he  never  came  home  from  work  without  bringing  in  a  piece  of  firewood  he  had  found  ora  handful  of  chestnuts  or  berries  he  had  picked;  and  he  always  wore  a  flower  or  a  sprig  of  leaves  in  his  hatband.  At  least  twice,  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  started,  in  the  extra-perfect  syllables  of  a  person  who  is  speaking  his  second  but  familiar  tongue,  to  recite  La  Fontaine's  fables  to  us.  He  cannot  finish,  we  all  thought,  for  no-  body  ever  does.  But  he  did,in  a  spate  of  magnificent  rhythmic  rhyme.  He  dis-  dained  the  ones  we  all  had  learned,  like  &quot;The  Crow  and  the  Fox&quot;  and  &quot;The  Grasshopper  and  the  Ant;&quot;  he  rolled  out  to  us  long  stories  of  unsuspected  chicaneries  and  revenges  of  other  beasts  among  us,political  as  well  as  social.  Then  he  laughed  with  pleasure.  An-  other  time,  he  sat  back  and  sang  at  least  ten  verses  of  &quot;Malbrouck  S'en  Va-t-en  Guerre,&quot;  and  I  feel  quite  sure  that  Georges  had  no  more  previous  knowl-  edge  of  some  of  the  couplets  than  I.  I  looked  across  the  dark  and  cluttered  table  at  him,  and  his  eyes  were  full  of  delighted  tears  as  he  regarded  his  father.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9's  tooth  shone  unashamedly  in  his  strong  ancient  face.  Anne  and  Mary  thumped  their  feet  to  the  chorus,  uncon-  scious  of  anything  but  the  man  within  the  shell,  ageless  and  alive.  Always  after  the  noon  meal,  Georges  would  amble  to  the  kitchen  and  take  an  interminable  time  to  make  coffee.  The  girls  were  twitching  to  beout  in  the  grass,  but  they  sat  helplessly  while  he  brought  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  the  coffee  mill,  got  out  his  little  bag  of  beans  brought  from  Dijon,heated  water,  on  and  on.  The  coffee,  once  it  had  dripped,  was  ex-  quisite.  'Then,  in  the  same  excruciat-  ingly  slow  way,  Georges  would  get  out  a  small  bottle  ofMyrtille,  and  after  we  had  drained  our  little  cups  of  coffee  he  would  pour  in  a  sip  or  two,  no  more,  of  the  pungent  sweet  liqueur.,  A  digestive, " b"  he  said  in  excuse.  It  was  indeed  very  good.  Gradually  we  finished  the  two  dry  cakes  from  Lod\xc3\xa9ve,  and  the  cheeses  we  had  brought  from  Aix,  and  two  big  bowls  of  wonderful  strawberries  from  Le  Truel,  bought  from  the  same  un-  fortunate  soul  who  sold  Georges  the  tiny  peas.  Almost  always  after  the  noon  meal,  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  and  Georges  played  a  little  boules  or  p\xc3\xa9tanque  on  the  terrace  in  front  of  the  house.  I  have  never  been  able  to  follow  the  floating  rules  of  their  game,  but  the  sound  of  the  balls  is  good  against  theearth  and  when  they  click  together,  and  there  is  a  special  relaxed  melody  about  the  voices  of  the  players.  One  evening  before  supper,  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  asked  me  hopefully  if  I  would  not  like  a  little  ap\xc3\xa9ritif.  I  bounded  with  delight,  but  too  late.  Georges  had  already  said  a  stern  and  sneering  no.  &quot;Mary  4672616e6365s  should  not  be  introduced  to  those  nox-  ious,  dangerous,  habit-forming  poisons,&quot;  he  said  to  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9.  &quot;A  little  good  wine  with  a  meal  is  enough  for  anyone.&quot;  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  and  I  grinned  secretly  at  each  other,  and  the  next  evening  I  asked  blandly  if  he  would  still  like  to  &quot;intro-  duce&quot;  me  to  a  glass  of  Cinzano.  It  tast-  ed  like  nectar.  When  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  said  he  would  join  me,  Georges  frowned  mightily,  mouthed  from  the  doorway,  &quot;Very  little  for  him,&quot;  and  left  in  a  pout.  HE  second  full  day  we  were  there  was  Pentecost  Monday,  a  great  festival.  Georges  said,  &quot;I  would  like  to  show  you  the  Gorges  du  Tarn,  but  the  road  will  be  bumper-to-bumper.&quot;  So  we  sat  on  the  terrace,  or  leaned  from  our  windows,  and  watched  the  slow  creep-  ing  ofa  procession  of  perhaps  fifty  vil-  lagers  leave  Le  Truel  at  about  eight  in  the  morning  and  then  disappear  into  the  forest  across  from  us.  They  were  almost  invisible  before  then,  but  be-  tween  us  we  believed  we  identified  the  priest  in  front  in  long  black  robes,  and  a  little  boy  bearing  a  cross,  and  another,  bigger  one  the  tricolor,  and  then  a  few  white-clad  children  who  had  obviously  just  made  their  First  Communion,  and  a  straggle  of  older,  slower  figures  all  in  black.  &quot;Why  don't  we  hear  them  chanting  as  they  always  do?&quot;  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  fretted,  and  Georges  repeated  several  times  to  him  that  the  wind  was  blowing  away,  away.  And  also  there  were  few  people  this  year.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  said,  &quot;all  the  young  ones  are  leaving  the  mountains-too  lazy  to  put  in  a  real  day's  work  any-  A.  Ladies  bracelet  watch.  14K  gold.  10  full-cut  diamonds.  Synthetic  sapphire  faceted  crystal.  $500  B.  Self-winding  14K  gold  man's  watch.  Automatic  date  indicator.  Water  and  shock-resistant.  $160  C.Dainty  14K  gold  watch  with  synthetic  sapphire  faceted  crystal.  $125  more.&quot;  We  forbore  to  remind  him  that  he  had  been  one  ofthe  first  to  escape-  to  [REDACTED],  to  become  a  fairly  high     " b"functionary  and  not  to  return  until  he  was  in  his  eighties  and  hiding  out  dur-  ing  the  Occupation  in  the  early  nine-  teen-forties.  About  an  hour  later,  the  little  proces-  sion,  much  smaller  than  a  line  of  ants,  emerged  from  the  forest  onto  the  clear  trail  that  led  past  a  group  of  farm  build-  ings  and  up  the  newly  graded  road  to  the  parking  place  at  the  foot  of  the  Vir-  gin's  summit.  'There  were  a  lot  of  cars,  and  plainly  it  was  an  important  pilgrim-  age.  Georges  said  there  were  stands  selling  sandwiches  and  wine  and  post-  cards  and  rosaries,.  Once,  he  and  his  young  son,  Pierre,  went  to  the  Mass  on  Pentecost  Monday  with  the  pilgrims,  perhaps  two  thousand  of  them.  It  took  the  two  men  about  six  hours  to  descend  to  the  Tarn  and  then  climb  up  again  to  the  chapel  to  join  the  procession  on  the  other  side  of  the  statue-and  longer  to  get  back.  When  I  asked  what  43616e616461Dame  du  D\xc3\xa9sert  stood  for,  why  she  was  there,  who  had  built  her,  the  two  Conneses  shrugged.  Why  does  any  village  have  its  Virgin?  No  special  miracle;  just  in-  tercommunity  rivalry.  We  kept  an  eye  on  the  pilgrims  across  the  valley  all  that  day.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  now  and  then  deplored,  naively  but  firmly,  the  lack  of  faith,  to  make  the  crowd  so  small.  We  did  not  mention  his  own  lifetime  absence  from  it.  We  approved  of  the  fine  weather,  for  ourselves  and  i  all  fellow-creatures,  and  Georges  got  ,  out  the  old  leather  book  his  grandfather  had  started  more  than  a  hundred  years  before,  which  he  was  continuing,  with  reports  on  the  weather  and  debts  can-  celled  and  so  on  (some  of  the  loans  were  for  as  little  as  two  francs  and  took  ten  years  to  be  repaid  and  crossed  off),  and  it  seems  that  we  were  un-  usually  lucky  not  to  be  in  a  drench,  a  bog,  called  succinctly  the  Pentecostal  deluge.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  said  that  the  biggest  crowd  he  ever  saw  walking  to  43616e616461Dame  du  D\xc3\xa9sert  was  in  the  spring  of  1875,  when  smallpox  cut  down  the  countryside.  Only  four  died  in  Le  Truel,  but  in  a  nearby  village  more  than  fifty  people  died,  and  the  whole  valley  walked  in  a  body  to  pray  for  help.  Their  singing  rang  back  and  forth  against  the  moun-  tainsides,  he  said.  It  was  an  expression  of  blind  desperation  and  faith.  Little  difference  there,  he  added  noncom-  mittally.  'That  was  a  bad  year,  1875;  the  Tarn  roared  out  of  control  and  destroyed  the  few  bridges  and  swept  away  fields  and  dwellings.  People  drowned.  Many  believed  that  the  end  of  the  world  had  come,  with  flood  and  pestilence.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  was  about  thirteen,  and  " b" he  remembered  t  he  wil  d  scene  ofthe  river  after  two  solid  days  of  ra  in,  and  how  people  r  eturning  from  the  pilgrim-  age  were  c  ut  off  fr  om  their  homes  when  the  newly  built  bridge  at  Le  Tru  el  broke,  and  how  the  lakes  up  on  top,  from  which  the  enormous  sil  ver  pipeline  now  snake  s  down  to  the  dam,  overflowed  and  spewed  a  great  gush  of  dead  cows  and  sheep  and  even  men,  and  green  trees  and  bedsprings,  past  Les  P\xc3\xa9narderies  and  o  n  into  the  flood  belo  w.  He  remembe  red,  too,  the  hide-  o  us  po  ckmarked  face  of  one  little  girl  who  survived  the  plague  in  the  village  .  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  sai  d  that  the  Virgin  had  sent  out  the  news  of  freedom  in  1945  .  Men  working  on  the  el  ectri  c  lines  that  ran  up  to  the  little  farm  ham  let  from  the  new  dam  had  g  ot  radio  news  of  the  Libera-  t  ion,  and  they  hurri  e  d  up  to  the  chapel  of  43616e616461Dame  du  D\xc3\xa9se  rt,  the  nearest  place,  and  roused  the  old  bell  ringer  there,  and  for  sev  eral  hour  s  the  bell  rang,  to  catch  every  wind  and  send  the  news  through  the  air  of  the  moun-  tains.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9,  his  old  wife,  and  one  or  two  of  their  hideaways  from  the  43616e616461hea  rd  the  bell  o  ff  and  on  all  day  and  knew  what  it  meant,  althoug  h  on  this  present  Pentecost  Monday,  when  we  all  felt  free,  we  heard  nothing  but  one  faint  sna  tc  h  of  song  after  the  noon  Mass,  and  a  few  salvos  of  musket  fire.  T  hen,  halfway  along  the  i  nvisible  path  across  from  us  on  the  mountainside,  about  four  o'clock,  there  was  ano  ther  snatch  of  sound,  and  G  eorges  said  scornfully,  &quot;Hah,  somebody  poured  himself  too  good  a  time  today!&quot;  Du  ring  the  last  war,  Les  P\xc3\xa9n  arderies  sheltered  many  friends  either  getting  to  the  tem  porary  F  ree  Zone  or  lying  low.  The  G  ermans  were  t  hick  i  n  that  part  ,  because  of  the  electric  power,  but  did  not  bother  the  old  Conneses.  Once,  some  local  hotbloods  of  the  Maquis  blew  up  a  power  line  nearby,  and  pieces  of  the  por  celain  conductors,  which  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  loved  to  exhi  bit  on  a  shelf  in  the  salon,  crashed  through  t  he  air.  But  Hitler,  he  said,  soon  had  the  line  repaired.  Le  Truel  lost  only  one  man  in  this  w  ar,  a  youth  shot  dead  on  his  own  farm  when  dis-  covered  helping  the  Undergr  ound.  Al-  ways  before,  the  men  of  Le  Truel  who  d  ied  for  their  country  did  so  at  a  great  di  stanc  e,  as  in  the  Franco-Prussian  War,  when  the  ten-year-old  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  was  counted  as  one  of  t  he  few  men  left  to  care  for  the  women  and  children.  HE  morning  we  must  leave,  we  all  lingered  irresistibly,  so  that  we  started  down  the  mountainside  at  least  an  hour  later  than  I  had  said  we  would.  My  bed  seemed  too  warm  and  familiar  " b"to  quit.  The  air  was  too  thin  and  sweet.  Down  in  the  big  white  kitchen,  the  bowls  of  hot  caf\xc3\xa9  au  lait  and  the  last  wooden  crust  of  the  loaf  of  bread  were  too  good  to  finish.  We  did  not  want  to  say  goodbye.  Georges  was  remote  andmoody,  and  stalked  about  on  the  terrace,  pretending  to  rearrange  the  back  ofthe  2  CV  for  our  tardy  luggage.  This  disdainful  atti-  tude  of  his,  I  knew,  came  from  his  not  wanting  us  to  leave.  I  was  going  to  quote  one  of  his  earliest  pronuncia-  mentos  to  me,  but  I  refrained:  &quot;A  guest  is  like  a  fresh  fish;  the  first  day  delicious,  the  second  day  a  bit  boring,  and  the  third  day  a  stink.&quot;  This  was  the  third  day  in  hours,  really  the  fourth  by  sunrises  and  sunsets,  but  I  knew  that  his  look  of  sneering  impatience  did  not  mean  that  he  was  tired  of  us.  He  and  the  girls  teased  me  a  little  when  I  got  into  the  2  CV,  for  when  we  made  the  trip  up  from  the  village  I  had  threatened  that  on  our  return  I  would  walk  down  the  mountain  and  meet  them  at  Le  Truel.  But  by  now  I  felt  so  serene  in  spirit  that  the  slow  crazy  crawl  around  all  those  curves  did  no  more  than  interest  me  in  how  quick-  ly  I  myself  could  grow  used  to  driving  them.  Once  down  from  the  mountain,  the  air  did  indeed  feel  heavier;  I  touched  my  hair,  and  it  seemed  to  have  lost  its  silkiness.  But  when  I  touched  my  cheek,  too,  it  felt  firmer  and  smoother  than  it  had  a  week  before.  M.  Lov'  was  waiting  for  us  by  the  bridge  at  the  en-  trance  to  the  pretty  village  of  Saint-  arn,  We  introduced  him  as  a  friend  (which  he  was)  who  was  pass-  ing  through  the  country,  for  even  in  the  face  of  Georges  obvious  relief  at  not  having  to  take  us  any  farther,I  did  not  want  him  to  know  that  we  had  hired  a  car  so  extravagantly.  He  has  worried  for  almost  forty  years  about  my  financial  insouciance.  We  embraced  him  very  tenderly,  and  left  him  sitting  on  the  stone  wall  of  the  bridge.  He  looked  like  Don  Quix-  ote,  gaunt  and  old  and  still  eager  for  new  windmills  to  tilt  at.  &quot;I  am  secret,&quot;  I  heard  him  say  again.  INE  months  after  our  visit,  on  February  20,  1961,  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  was  a  hundred  years  old.  For  his  centennial,  there  was  a  great  celebration  in  Dijon.  Georges  and  the  mayor,  Canon  Kir,  gave  a  reception  at  the  town  hall,  the  Ducal  Palace.  Dozens  of  relatives  and  friends  were  put  up  at  the  Hotel  Ter-  minus,  where  red  and  white  wines  are  piped  into  some  of  the  bedrooms,  and  there  was  much  feasting.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  was  " b"made  a  Chevalier  of  the  Legion  of  Honor,  and  several  other  things,  for  he  was  not  only  a  hundred  years  old  buta  lifelong  public  servant  in  the  Postes-  T\xc3\xa9l\xc3\xa9phones-T\xc3\xa9l\xc3\xa9graphes  of  [REDACTED].  We  were  invited  to  all  of  it,  but  we  were  far  away  in  [REDACTED].  So  Georges  sent  us  a  picture  taken  of  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  in  the  Dijon  garden,  wearing  a  sporty-looking  tweed  jacket  and  baggy  gray  flannels,  and  a  gray  felt  hat  with  the  brim  turned  up  all  the  way  around  and  slightly  cocked  over  his  left  eye,  which  we  knew  to  be  large,  steady,  and  bright  blue.  On  the  back  of  the  snapshot,  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  wrote,  &quot;To  Mme.  Fisher  and  her  young  ladies,  most  beloved  and  lovable,  a  token  from  Albert  Connes,  one  hundred  today,&quot;  and  he  signed  it  officially  with  the  banker's  delight,  the  flourishes  and  curlicues  of  a  true  French  signature.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  livedfor  another  year  and  a  few  days.  After  Georges  wrote  that  he  had  died,  I  asked,  &quot;How?&quot;  and  Georges  replied,  &quot;Here  is  the  truth,  since  you  demanded  it.  It  is  sad.  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9's  death  was  painful,  and  even  cruel,  for  he  did  not  die  of  old  age  and  weariness  but  because  ofa  lung  congestion.  It  lasted  eleven  days,  beginning  on  Febru-  ary20,  the  day  he  was  101.  We  tried  everything:  antibiotics  by  mouth,  which  he  could  not  assimilate,  and  then  injec-  tions,  which  he  could  stand  no  better,  and  then  an  oxygen  tent.  He  became  pessimistic:  'Why  are  we  born?  What  have  I  done  to  be  this  unhappy?&quot;  His  last  night,  unconscious,  he  wanted  to  flee,  and  I  had  to  battle  with  him.  'You  are  hurting  me'  were  almost  his  last  words.  'That  really  hurt  me.'  Then  he  had  a  final,  generous  thought:  'But  itis  I  who  have  hurt  you.'  A  shotof  mor-  phine  calmed  his  last  eight  hours.  We  buried  him  discreetly  in  the  little  ceme-  tery  of  Fontaine-l\xc3\xa9s-Dijon,  still  almost  like  a  country  graveyard;  I  did  my  best  to  avoid  publicity,  and  only  a  dozen  of  us  went  withhim.  My  next  trip  back  to  Les  P\xc3\xa9narderies  was  truly  melan-  choly:  in  ten  places  I  came  upon  the  image  of  him.&quot;  I  was  some  six  thousand  miles  re-  moved,  but  my  loss  seemed  the  realer  for  it,  and  mixed  with  missing  P\xc3\xa9p\xc3\xa9  for  the  rest  of  my  life  was  a  feeling  of  amaze-  ment  and  delight  that  I  had  actually  lived  with  him,  been  embraced  by  him,  and  listened  to  him  sing."