 b"(A  PREMONITORY  LIST  OF  THIS  YEAR's  YULETIDE  OFFERINGS  IN  COFFEE-TABLE  LITERATURE)  Ox  tur  Wine!  LEVEN  years  ago,  Holger  T.  Whitby,  president  of  the  Amal-  gamated  Brass  Company  of  [REDACTED],  quietly  began  photographing  houseflies  with  his  family  Brownie.  Today,  Mr.  Whitby,  no  longer  a  mere  hobbyist,  is  recognized  throughout  the  Nature  world  as  the  photographic  Au-  dubon  of  insects  in  midair,  Here  are  over  two  hundred  of  his  stunning  full-  page  color  portraits,  each  in  perfect  focus,  of  midges,  bluebottles,  houseflies,  ichneumons,  dung  flies,  mosquitoes,  gnats,  harlequin  fruit  flies,  ladybugs,  white-faced  hornets,  horseflies,  poplar  goat  moths,  etc.,  all  caught  in  full  flight.  Many  exciting  head-on  views.  The  text,  which  was  written  by  Mrs.  Whit-  by  during  her  husband's  convalescence  from  a  recent  bout  of  malaria,includes  many  helpful  hints  about  lens  settings,  camouflage,  and  antihistamines  that  will  permit  you  to  take  up  this  re-  warding  scientific  pursuit.  $85.  Tue  Tarroo  CALENDAR  HIS  handy,  Phillips  Brooks-style  1965  calendar  is  graced  with  52  full-page  photographs  of  masterpieces  by  the  world's  foremost  tattooists.  Week  by  week,  you  will  be  charmed  and  fascinated  by  a  fresh,  startling  design  etched  in  human  skin,  faithfully  re-  produced  here  in  full  color.  Included  are  Maori  nose  patterns,  a  classic  &quot;Mother&quot;&quot;  heart  of  the  Scollay  Square  Post-Impressionist  school,  Yokohama  bicep  flowers,  and  the  Duke  of  Middle-  sex's  celebrated  ventral  panorama  of  the  Isle  of  Wight.  The  ideal  gift  for  retired  naval  officers,  dermatologists,  cereals  {}{50  CHrisrmas  In  THE  SENATE  A  JOYOUS  compendium  of  Yule-  tide  sentiment  from  the  hearts  and  tongues  of  [REDACTED]'s  most  beloved  senior  solons.  Includes  eleven  tributes  to  the  Season  of  Good  Will  delivered  in  recent  years  on  the  floor  of  the  Upper  House  just  before  Christmas  adjourn-  ment,  taken  word  for  word  from  the  pages  of  the  Congressional  Record.  Some  of  the  plums  in  this  rich  pudding  are  Senator  Thurmond's  memorable  eulogium  to  the  lowly  mistletoe,  Sena-  tor  Hickenlooper's  1952  Christmas  card  to  the  Republican  National  Com-  mittee,  and  Senator  Fong's  touching  &quot;A  Boy's  Christmas  in  Honolulu.&quot;  The  volume  also  contains  a  12-inch  stereo  recording  of  Senator  Dirksen's  annual  reading  of  &quot;A  Visit  from  St.  Nicholas&quot;  to  the  Senate  pageboys.  A  gift  that  every  556e6974656420537461746573n  will  be  proud  to  find  under  his  stocking.  $18.50.  Seven  Roaps  to  SPRINGFIELD  T  has  fallen  to  the  [REDACTED]  his-  torian  P.  L.  J.  W.  Hogwought  to  remind  556e6974656420537461746573ns  of  the  costly  legacy  we  inherited  from  the  bloody,  unappre-  ciated  campaigns  of  Shays'  Rebellion.  Students  of  Armageddon  will  find  harsh,  meaningful  parallels  to  subse-  quent  and  more  publicized  wars  in  this  meticulous  account  of  the  tedious  win-  ter  of  1786-87.  You  will  not  quickly  forget  the  ironic  significance  of  General  [REDACTED]'s  famous  murmured  aside,  the  overturned  chairs  during  the  scuffle  at  Worcester  Court  House,  or  the  curi-  ous  and  nearly  fatal  oversight  by  Gen-  eral  Benjamin  Lincoln's  hostler.  Seven-  teen  pull-out  war  maps,  827  pages,  plus  a  foreword  by  the  Military  Affairs  Editor  of  the  Wall  Street  Journal.  $30.  Tur  FireEsto\xc2\xae  Book  or  OR  the  first  time,  the  complete  lore,  literature,  reportage,  great  art,  and  humor  of  the  world's  most  popular  in-  door  sport!  Vivid  alleyside  prose  and  poetry  by  Homer,  Chaucer,  Shake-  speare,  Pepys,  Smollett,  Jane  Austen,  Dickens,  Dostoevski,  Twain,  Hem-  ingway,  Gide,  Jimmy  Cannon,  et  al.,  with  paintings  by  Veronese,  Brueghel,  Watteau,  Renoir,  Kandinsky,  and  oth-  ers.  It's  all  here,  from  that  long-ago  Golden  Apple  rolled  by  Eris,  through  Sir  Francis  Drake's  nervy  game  of    bowls  at  Plymouth  Harbor,  right  down  to  the  celebrated  Jersey-side  strike  scored  by  Madeleine  (Babe)  LaFonza  in  the  twelfth  frame  of  the  1959  Middle  States  Women's  Finals  at  the  Bethlchem  BowlMor  Lanes!  A  ten-  strike  of  a  book,  exactly  right  for  the  sportsman  or  sportswoman  in  your  family!  $7.95.  PaBro  P1casso's  GoLDEN  TELEPHONE  Book  NEWS  last  spring  that  all  the  tele-  phone  exchanges  on  the  Riviera  were  about  to  be  converted  to  digit  dialling  sent  Eric  Portnoy,  owner  of  Madison  Avenue's  Valuta  Gallery,  scuttling  to  Vallauris  to  beg  of  his  old  friend  Picasso  the  right  to  purchase  his  now  useless  bedside  personal  telephone  memo  book.  After  six  weeks  of  bargain-  ing,  the  protean  modern  master  laugh-  ingly  relented  and  released  the  priceless  volume  for  the  almost  gratuitous  sum  of  $82,000.  Now,  at  last,  you  can  share  in  this  treasure,  which  reproduces,  with  absolute  fidelity,  all  of  Picasso's  bril-  liantly  offhand  pencilled  &quot;doodles&quot;  historic  sketches  that  leaped  straight  from  the  genius's  fecund  unconscious  while  he  was  absorbed  in  conversation  on  Pappareil.  Of  particular  interest  is  the  massive,  angry,  and  undeniably  Cubist  box  that  surrounds  the  enigmatic  though  typically  tauromachian  words  &quot;Filets  de  beeuf-6  francs?&quot;  Included,  too  (tothe  joy  of  art  historians),  are  the  former  telephone  numbers  of  the  Picassos'  wine  merchant,  baby-sitter,  blanchisseuse,  etc.  The  art  event  of  the  year!  $50.  Tur  Navayo  Sone  Book  TREASURE  house  of  melody  compiled  after  a  dedicated  ten-  year  study  by  three  Bryn  Mawr  an-  thropologists  and  a  musicologist  from  the  Folk  Art  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress.  Here  are  the  stirring  war  chants,  the  water-toting  grunts,  the  amusing  canyon  echo  songs,  the  lively  corn-shouts,  and  the  endless  dirgelike  drought  chorales  that  have  made  the  Navajos  the  envy  of  neighboring,  tone-  deaf  Southwestern  tribes.  Now  you  and  your  family  can  gather  around  the  pi-  ano  and  quickly  learn  such  true  Ameri-  can  classics  as  &quot;Ta-Wa-Kipt  Na-Pa  Hiwa  Pot-Awa&quot;  (&quot;I  Have  Lost  Fa-  ther's  Rattle&quot;),  &quot;Wip-a-Po&quot;  (&quot;My  Bride  Is  Worth  Three  Burros&quot;),  and  &quot;A  kivo-Klupa-A-Ah&quot;  (&quot;Sand  in  My  Eyes  Again-O!&quot;).  All  eighty-four  songs  carefully  scored  for  piano,  gourd,  and  war  drum.  Profusely  illustrated  with  photographs  of  sacred  Navajo  song  moccasins.  $24.95."