 b"MY  father  came  home  one  eve-  ning  in  early  spring,  about  two  months  before  my  sister  was  born,  to  find  my  mother  standing,  hand  to  head,  on  the  rag  rug  in  the  living  room,  wearing  the  brown  wool  bathrobe  she  had  put  on  when  she  got  up  in  the  morning.  She  had  not  even  combed  her  hair.  I  had  come  home  from  school  at  three-thirty  tofind  her  in  the  same  condition,  sitting  on  a  chair  in  the  dining  alcove.  She  had  left  the  front  door  to  the  apartment  half  open.  She  stood  in  the  center  of  the  rug  in  the  living  room  and  called  out  to  my  father,  who  was  taking  off  his  rubbers  and  his  overcoat  in  thefront  hall  ten  feet  away.  &quot;Come  and  look,  John!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  can  stand  right  here  on  this  spot  and  see  everything  we  own.&quot;  She  had  been  going  through  the  apart-  ment  for  more  than  an  hour,  opening  and  shutting  drawers  and  doors,  and  turning  on  every  light  in  the  place,  though  it  wasn't  yetdark.  My  father  stood  behind  her  and  put  both  hands  on  her  shoulders,  but  shepulled  away  and  began  to  cry.  &quot;It's  ugly,&quot;  she  said.  I  was  sent  down  to  the  drugstore  for  ice  cream,  and  when  I  got  back  my  moth-  er  was  lying  under  the  quiltin  their  bedroom  and  my  father  was  cooking  up  some  ham  and  eggs.  My  mother  liked  pretty  things,  and  there  were  few  in  the  [REDACTED]  apartment,  except  for  those  she  brought  from  home  or  made  herself.  We  had  moved  to  [REDACTED]  four  years  before  from  a  place  I  shall  call  Meredith,  a  [REDACTED]  town  across  the  lake  where  my  father  and  motherwere  brought  up,  where  they  were  married,  and  where  I  was  born.  My  father  had  been  in  the  insur-  ance  business  there  with  his  brother,  my  Uncle  Ed,  but  he  wanted  to  break  away  from  home  and  break  Mother  away  from  her  family,  and  he  took  a  job  in  [REDACTED]  with  Cudahy  Packing,  in  the  accounting  of-  fice.  Though  he  made  more  each  week  than  he  had  in  Meredith,  it     didn't  go  far  beyond  our  food  and  rent,  and  there  was  no  family  around  to  ease  the  strain.  My  motherhad  to  work,  too.  She  taught  kindergarten  in  the  same  school  that  I  went  to.  I  was  eight  then  and  in  the  fourth  grade.  After  the  first  term  that  year,  Moth,  er  took  a  leave  ofabsence,  because  of  the  baby  expected  in  May.  Once  she  stopped  teaching,  she  began  to  worry.  She  tried  to  keep  busy.  She  painted  the  bedroom  suite  robin's-egg  blue-it  took  three  coats  to  cover  the  mahogany  stain-and  decorated  the  bureau  drawers  and  the  bedstead  with  hand-  painted  roses.  She  made  gesso  picture  frames,  modelled  figures  out  ofclay  she  had  brought  home  from  the  school  storeroom,  and  painted  glass  bottles  and  vases.  Once,  she  made  bread.  I  came  home  from  school  that  day  to  find  her  on  her  knees  on  the  living-room  floor,  the  rug  pushed  aside,  pressing  and  pounding  dough  on  a  piece  of  floured  yellow  oilcloth.  The  loaves  rose  un-  evenly  and  burned.  My  mother's  family,  the  Bishops,  were  very  close.  Her  father,  a  doctor,  had  prospered  in  Meredith  and  built  a  large,  comfortable  house,  with  rooms  for  each  of  the  children-three  daugh-  ters  and  a  son-which  were  kept  for  them  after  they  moved  away.  None  of  the  children  stayed  away  for  long.  Mother  and  Ispent  our  summers  there,  even  after  we  moved  to  [REDACTED].  I  slept  lightly  the  night  of  my  moth-  er's  attack  of  nerves,  and  I  woke  now  and  then  to  hear  her  low,  persisting  voice  and  my  father's,  dry  and  rough  sometimes,  and  then  with  a  high  twang,  as  if  he  were  a  child  complaining.  Lat-  er,  I  woke  and  the  apartment  was  quiet,  though  the  lights  were  still  on.  I  went  into  the  living  room  and  saw  them  sitting  at  the  table  in  the  dining  alcove.  My  father  was  drinking  coffee,  my  mother  looking  into  her  cup.  I  felt  something  secret  and  frightening  be-  tween  them,  as  if  I  had  come  upon  them  in  an  embrace.  They  did  not  see  me.  I  was  afraid  one  of  them  would  punish  me-I  wasn't  sure  why-and  I  went  back  to  bed.  She  couldn't  stand  it  in  [REDACTED]  any  longer,  my  mother  said  to  me  the  next  day.  She  had  to  go  home,  back  to  her  own  house  and  her  own  room.  She  was  worn  out,  and  sick  and  tired  of  hav-  ing  to  do  all  the  housework.  I  had  been  born  in  the  Meredith  hospital-  years  later,  I  learned  that  Dr.  Bishop,  my  grandfather,  had  delivered  me-  and  she  wanted  the  new  baby  to  be  born  there,  too.  All  my  father  told  me  was  that  he  and  Mother  had  had  a  talk  and  they  had  decided  that  go-  ing  back  to  Meredith  was  the  best  thing.  I  would  stay  with  her;  he  would  drive  us  over,  and  then  he  would  have  to  come  back  to  [REDACTED]  and  go  to  work.  I  was  glad  to  be  leaving  the  city.  For  one  thing,  it  meant  no  more  school  that  year.  I  wouldn'thave  to  go  to  classes  in  Mere-  dith,  my  mother  said;  she  would  teach  me.  School  bored  me.  I  had  been  reading  since  I  was  four,  and  there  was  little  said  in  a  classroom  that  I  didn't  know.  And  I  loved  the  Bishop  house.  It  was  huge;  there  were  trees  to  climb,  and  lots  of  yard.  Aunts  and  uncles  and  cousins  lived  near-  by,  and  relations  were  in  and  out  all  the  time.  I  was  the  only  small  boy  in  the  family,  and  a  spoiled  favorite.  I  lux-  uriated  there.  My  father  drove  us  " b"over  to  Meredith  the  next  Sat-  urday.  We  were  out  of  the  apartment  and  on  our  way  by  seven  in  the  morning;  from  [REDACTED]  to  Meredith,  thirty-  five  years  ago,  was  an  all-day  drive.  The  threeof  us  sat  in  front,  with  me  by  the  win-  dow.  The  back  of  the  car  was  piled  high  with  bags  and  parcels  and  my  toys.  I  waved  goodbye  to  things  along  the  road.  I  thought  I  was  clever;  it  was  a  baby  trick  that  I  knew  annoyed  my  father.  &quot;Good-  bye,  house!&quot;  I  cried,  waving  out  the  window.  &quot;Goodbye,  school!  Goodbye,  streetcar!&quot;  Through  Jackson  Park,  through  Hammond  (Good-  bye,  gas  tanks),  through  Gary,  through  [REDACTED]  City  (in  [REDACTED]!),  and  up  into  [REDACTED]  on  Highway  31,  past  sand  dunes  heldtogether  by  scrub  oak  and  maple  and  beach  grass  and  studded  with  jack  pine.  I  read  signs  out  loud.  &quot;Eats.&quot;  &quot;Time  to  Re-  tire.&quot;  &quot;Pop's  on  Ice  and  Ma's  Inside.&quot;  &quot;Jesus  Saves.&quot;  &quot;What,  Bobby?&quot;  my  fa-  ther  would  say  to  me  sometimes,  in  spite  of  himself.  &quot;Nothing.  I'm  reading,&quot;  I  would  say.  I  got  on  his  nerves.  He  was  whistling  bugle  calls,  softly,  from  in  back  of  his  teeth.  &quot;You  gottaget  up,  you  gotta  get  up  in  the  morning!&quot;  &quot;Soupie,  soupie,  soupie,  not  a  single  bean!&quot;  He  had  been  an  Army  captain  in  the  war.  \xe2\x80\x98N?  E  drove  straight  to  the  Bishop  house  and  into  the  back  driveway.  The  sun  was  already  low,  and  the  bed-  room  and  attic  windows  on  the  west  side  of  the  house  blazed  orange.  My  grandmother-a  tiny,  nervous  wom-  an-stood  on  the  concrete  front  steps  waiting  for  us.  She  waved  once,  and  by  the  time  we  had  gone  around  the  corner  and  turned  into  the  back  yard,  she  was  already  there.  My  grandfather  and  my  mother's  younger  sister,  Aunt  Elda,  were  just  behind  her.  Mother  and  I  were  embraced,  caught  up,  and  swept  into  the  house  like  the  queen  and  her  crown  prince  come  home.  My  fa-  ther  and  the  Doctor  waited  and  came  on  behind.  Dr.  Bishop  had  built  his  house  in  1903,  soon  after  he  had  moved  to  Meredith  from  Corinth,  a  nearby  vil-  lage,  and  while  his  children  were  young.  The  house,  a  three-story  gabled  building  of  brick  and  stucco,  sat  on  a  double  corner  lot,  surrounded  by  grass,  trees,  and  flowers.  There  was  grass  everywhere-to  the  west,a  lawn  broad  enough  for  games  of  softball  and  cro-  quet;  to  the  east,  a  shady  yard  where  only  feathery  grass  and  lilies  ofthe  val-  ley  would  grow.  There  weregood  climbing  trees-a  black  cherry  that  bore  fruit  pillaged  by  robins  and  spar-  rows,  a  silver  maple,  a  Japanesewal-  nut  whose  nutmeats  were  shaped  like  wrinkled  hearts.  The  garage  had  a  rose  trellis  in  front  that  could  be  climbed,  and  a  roof  low  enough  in  back  to  jump  from.  After  a  few  minutes  in  the  living  room,  I,  excused  myself  andwent  out-  side.  We  hadn't  been  there  since  Christ-  mas,  and  I  wanted  to  see  how  things  were  now  that  it  was  spring.  Crocuses,  yellow  and  purple,  were  in  bloom  on  the  west  lawn,  still  winter  brown  but  mottled  with  pale  green;  daffodil  shoots  were  breaking  out  ofthe  soil  along  the  side  of  the  house.  My  grandfather's  tan  coup\xc3\xa9  was  parked  in  front,  and  I  got  in  and  sat  behind  the  wheel.  The  car  smelled  of  wintergreen  and  iodoform.  I  felt  myself  master  ofthe  house,  and  my  father  a  visitor,  come  just  for  the  day.  For  the  next  few  weeks,  I  had  the  time  of  my  life.  My  mother  and  I  had  never  been  so  close;  things  had  never  gone  so  much  my  way.  Except  for  Sundays,  when  my  father  came,  I  had  her  pretty  much  to  myself.  My  father's  visits  were  brief;  he  worked    until  noon  on  Saturday,  and  could  not  reach  Meredith  until  after  dark  on  Saturday  night;  he  left  again  after  din-  ner  on  Sunday,  by  two-thirty  or  three.  Mother  slept  late  in  the  mornings.  I  was  an  early  riser,  and  my  grandpar-  ents  got  up  even  earlier.  My  bedroom  was  above  the  kitchen,  and  I  would  wake  to  the  sound  of  pots  banging  in  the  sink  and  my  grandmother  singing-&quot;Bringing  in  the  Sheaves,&quot;  &quot;Work  for  the  Night  Is  Coming,&quot;  or  &quot;Seeing  Nellie  Home.&quot;  Until  ten  or  so,  when  my  mother  awoke,  I  played  in  the  yard  or  on  the  porch.  If  it  was  rain-  ing,  I  played  in  the  music  room  or  the  library-small  rooms  off  the  front  hall,  one  with  a  piano  and  one  with  sets  of  books  in  glass-doored  cases.  My  moth-  er  had  breakfast  in  bed,  and  I  would  have  a  second  breakfast  with  her.  Then,  when  she  was  up  and  dressed,  she  came  down  to  the  music  room  and  our  les-  sons  began.  They  were  hardly  lessons,  except  for  arithmetic  and  spelling.  We  were  studying  the  myths  and  legends  of  Greeceand  4974616c79,  and  we  took  turns  reading  aloud  from  [REDACTED]'s  &quot;'Wonder  Book&quot;  and  &quot;Tanglewood  Tales.&quot;  The  stories  I  liked  we  read  over  and  over  again-Pandora's  box,  Perseus  and  Medusa,  Midas  and  his  daughter  turned  to  gold,  Ceres  and  Proserpine.  Sometimes  we  took  parts.  I  " b"would  play  Epimetheus  to  my  mother's  Pandora,  or  Pluto  to  her  Proserpine.  We  made  peepshows  in  oatmeal  boxes,  to  be  looked  at  through  a  hole  pricked  in  one  end-Perseus  holding  high  the  snaky  head,  Pandora  opening  the  for-  bidden  box,  dark  Pluto  upon  his  throne.  Or  we  sat  at  the  piano  and  made  up  songs  about  Ceres  crying  for  her  lost  daughter,  Midas  boasting  of  his  gold.  In  the  afternoons,  when  the  weather  was  fair,  we  went  walking,  though  not  far  and  not  for  long-down  Superior  Street  to  the  public  library,  or  up  [REDACTED]  Street  toa  ravine  about  two  blocks  away.  My  mother  dressed  for  our  walks  as  if  they  were  all-day  outings,  in  her  loose,  wheat-colored  coat,  and  her  fox  fur  with  jaws  that  snapped.  I  liked  the  ravine.  It  was  one  of  several  in  Mere-  dith,  a  town  cut  by  small  creeks  that  rise  from  pasture  land  to  the  south  and  empty  into  the  Deer  River,  which  empties  into  Lake  [REDACTED].  Where  we  went,  the  ravine  was  broad  and  shallow-it  became  deeper  farther  along-and  apath  led  down  an  easy  slope  from  [REDACTED]  Street,  across  the  creek  on  a  wooden  footbridge,  and  up  the  other  side.  Just  off  the  path  was  a  grassy  clearing,  and  beneath  a  butter-  nut  tree  there  someone  had  set  a  green  slatted  bench  that  commanded  a  small  prospect  ofthe  creek,  the  footbridge,  and  the  upper  ravine,  where  there  were  smallfenced-off  vegetable  gardens.  My  mother  likedto  sit  on  the  bench  for  an  hour  or  so  while  I  played.  It  was  pleas-  ant  in  the  early  afternoon,  before  school  was  out  and  the  ravine  became  noisy  with  children.  At  that  hour,  the  place  was  our  own.  Except  for  the  clearing,  and  the  gar-  dens  above  the  bridge,  the  ravine  grew  wild;  it  was  a  tangle  of  sumac  and  scrub  maple,  wild  grape,  mulberry,  barberry,  and  rosebushes  gone  to  seed.  To  me  it  seemed  a  jungle,  the  dark  unknown,  as  I  thought  it  must  have  seemed  to  the  first  white  men  settling  there-which,  after  all,  had  been  less  than  a  hundred  years  before.  My  im-  agination,  fed  and  inflamed  by  the  reading  of  myths  and  fairy  tales,  took  root  there  and  flowered.  I  saw  spirits  and  demigods  everywhere.  Trolls  lived  beneath  the  footbridge.  A  hollow  tree  led  to  Pluto's  kingdom,  where  dogs  with  eyes  as  big  as  cartwheels  stood  guard  over  his  treasure.  There  were  magic  circles  oftoadstools  in  the  clear-  ing.  The  creek  was  a  great  sea,  or  the  Styx,  or  the  Nile.  I  began  to  tell  such  things  to  my  mother-hesitantly  at  first,  but  she  urged  me  on.  Soon  I  was  spinning  fantastic  tales-things  I  had  long  thought  but  never  expected  to  say  \n aloud;  she  would  join  in  and  carry  me  further.  I  had  had  the  idea  it  was  wrong  to  speak  of  such  matters-  imaginary  playmates,  winged  horses,  magic  carpets,  bogeymen.  They  weren't  real.  Yet  here  was  my  mother,  who  had  been  too  busy  or  too  nervous  before  to  listen,  not  onlyallowing  me  to  run  on  but  running  on  herself.  It  was  un-  heard  of,  and  I  felt  there  was  some-  thing  wrong  in  it.  My  mother  was  not  supposed  to  bea  child.  We  began  with  stories  andwent  on  to  plays,  acting  out  our  fantasies,  half  my  mother's  and  half  mine.  Some  of  them  were  exciting  enough  to  keep  me  awake,  dreaming  them  over,  at  night.  Once-it  must  have  been  late  in  April,  for  it  was  almost  hot  in  the  sun  and  my  mother  had  taken  off  her  coat-I  was  exploring  the  lower  reaches  of  the     -Davi  WaconeEr  ravine  and  came  back  to  find  her  doz-  ing  on  her  bench.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Wake  up!&quot;  She  hushed  me.  &quot;I'm  the  sleeping  princess,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I've  been  sleeping  here  for  a  thousand  years.&quot;  &quot;It's  time  you  woke  up,&quot;  I  said,  be-  foreI  saw  that  we  were  on  the  thresh-  old  of  a  new  game.  I  had  found  a  speckled  brown-and-white  eggshell  and  meant  to  ask  her  what  bird's  it  was.  &quot;Don't  wake  me  harshly,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;It  might  be  fatal.  A  cer-  tain  prince  is  to  wake  me  and  bring  me  back  to  life,  but  he  must  do  it  gently.&quot;  I  knew  the  game  then.  &quot;First  I  must  perform  certain  tasks,&quot;  I  said.  We  made  them  up.  I  would  begin  on  the  far  side  of  the  creek,  at  thetop  of  the  hill,  and  climb  the  small  maple  there  (the  dark  tower,  my  mother  said  ),  then  run  down  the  path  and  cross  the  trolls  bridge-silently,  or  they  would  hear  me  and  tear  me  to  bits.  Once  safely  across,  I  was  to  gather  a  bouquet  of  wild  flowers  and  place  them  in  my  mother's  hand.  &quot;I  have  to  go  through  the  bramble-  bush  first,&quot;  I  said.  But  my  mother  said  no.  &quot;Then  I  have  to  kiss  you  on  the  eyes,&quot;  I  said,  and  she  agreed.  So  it  went,  She  was  asleep,  half  seated  and  half  lying,  on  the  bench.  I  gave  her  a  bouquet  of  white  and  purple  violets  and  I  kissed  her,  and  she  awoke,  fluttering  her  eyelids,  rising,  yawn-  " b"ing,  and  sitting  erect  to  stretch  and  smile.  I  hopped  about  for  joy  at  her  surprise  and  my  mastery.  We  played  the  game  again  the  next  day,  and  it  grew  more  elabo-  rate.  A  dragon,  she  told  me,  had  puther  to  sleep  a  thousand  years  before.  He  still  lived  in  the  culvert  at  the  lower  end  of  the  ra-  vine,  and  I  must  de-  stroy  him.  I  did,  and  came  staggering  back  with  his  brown  head,  a  heavy  rock.  Then  we  married-the  cere-  mony  was  long,  and  each  of  us  played  sev-  eral  parts-and  then  I  charged  the  bridge,  screaming,  and  drove  out  all  the  trolls.  Y  mother  went  to  the  hospital  early  one  morning  toward  the  end  of  April,  soon-  er  than  anyone  ex-  pected.  We  had  gone  to  the  ravine  just  a  day  or  so  before.  My  father  was  in  [REDACTED];  no  one  was  prepared.  I  felt  at  loose  ends  all  that  day.  Late  in  the  after-  noon,  my  father  arrived,  stopped  just  long  enough  to  leave  his  bag  and  give  me  a  glass  jar  of  barley  candy  sticks,  and  went  on  to  the  hospital.  He  didn't  come  back  for  dinner.  I  was  made  to  eat  in  the  kitchen,  alone,  and  sent  up  early  to  bed.  I  woke  up-it  must  have  been  around  three  in  the  morning-as  he  crawled  into  bed  with  me,  wearing  his  BVDs.  What  was  he  doing  in  my  bed?  He  always  slept  in  Mother's  room.  I  pulled  the  covers  around  me  and  pretended  to  be  asleep.  He  lay  flat  with  his  hands  at  his  sides,  as  if  he  were  standing  at  attention  on  his  back.  He  was  shivering.  I  sat  up  and  looked  down  at  him,  and  he  looked  up  at  me  as  if  he  wondered  who  I  was.  &quot;'You  have  a  baby  sister,&quot;  he  said,  and  began  to  chew  at  the  knuckles  of  his  right  hand.  &quot;She's  dead,&quot;  he  said.  I  thought  he  meant  my  sister.  &quot;Your  mother  is  dead,&quot;  he  said,  and  put  his  fist  in  his  mouth.  I  didn't  know  what  he  meant.  There  were  noises  in  the  kitchen,  and  I  went  down  by  the  back  stairs  to  see  what  was  going  on.  My  grand-  mother  and  my  grandfather  sat  there drinking  tea.  I  wanted  to  ask  them  what  my  father  was  talking  about;  I  guessed  him  to  mean  my  mother  was  very  tired,  and  worn  out  from  having  my  sister.  &quot;Is  Mommy  all  right?&quot;  I  said.  My  grandmother  said  yes,  she  was  out  of  her  suffering.  My  grandfather  said  nothing.  I  sat  down,  and  my  grandmother  poured  me  some  warm  tea  and  milk.  &quot;Why  is  Daddy  sleeping  in  my  bed?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Hush,  Bobby,&quot;  my  grandfather  said.  \xc2\xabWe'll  talk  about  it  in  the  morning,&quot;  my  grandmother  said.  &quot;It's  the  middle  of  the  night.&quot;  My  grandfather  took  me  back  to  my  bedroom  by  the  front  stairs.  In  the  up-  stairs  hall,  there  was  a  cedar  chest.  We  sat  down  on  it,  and  he  told  me  what  had  happened.  &quot;Your  sister's  name  is  Helen  Marie,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;She  is  a  fine,  healthy  baby,  and  she  will  have  brown  eyes  and  brown  hair  just  like  you  and  your  mother.  A  few  hours  after  the  baby  was  born,  Ruth-your  mother-passed  away  in  her  sleep.  Your  father  talked  to  her  before  she  died,  and  so  did  your  65     grandmother  and  I.  She  saw  the  baby  and  said  she  wanted  to  call  her  Helen  Marie,  and  then  we  left  her  alone  to  sleep.  She  was  tired,  but  she  was  well.  Then  a  clot  of  blood  formed  and  went  to  her  heart  and  killed  her.  Her  heart  stopped  beating.  There  was  nothing  any  ofus  could  do-&quot;  He  checked  him-  self  then,  as  if  he  had  been  talking  to  someone  else  and  I  had  just  walked  into  the  room,.  His  voice  had  trembled.  I  felt  embarrassed.  And  I  could  not  quite  believe  him;  I  felt  he  was  telling  me  a  story  and  not  all  the  truth,  for  reasons  I  did  not  understand.  I  did  not  think  my  mother  was  dead.  I  woke  late  the  next  morning  with  the  feeling  that  there  was  something  I  had  to  do;  I  couldnot  remember  what  it  was.  My  father  was  gone.  When  I  got  to  the  kitchen,  my  breakfast  was  on  the  table  and  my  grandmother  sat  at  the  kitchen  counter,  polishing  silver-  ware.  The  sun  was  high  enough  to  shine  through  the  walnut  tree  in  the  back  yard  and  into  the  kitchen  win-  dows.  Flecks  of  greenish  light  and  shadow  were  on  the  white  enamel  table  and  on  my  breakfast.  I  was  in  a  hurry  to  get  outside.  &quot;Don't  bolt  your  food,  Robert,&quot;  my  " b"grandmother  said.  &quot;I  want  to  talk  to  you.&quot;  She  sat  down  beside  me,  so  that  I  could  not  see  her  face  clearly.  My  mother  had  passed  away,  she  told  me,  but  she  was  not  dead.  We  should  think  of  her  as  asleep.  We  would  see  her  again,  and  we  would  all  be  to-  gether  one  day.  She  was  waiting  for  us  now  in  Heaven.  &quot;Can  she  see  us?&quot;  I  said.  Yes,  she  could  see  us.  She  was  watching  us,  and  waiting.  I  could  see  her,  wearing  a  white  robe,  holding  on  to  the  gold  gateposts  of  Heaven  and  leaning  out,  looking  down  through  the  clouds.  I  wanted  to  ask  if  she  had  wings.  Here  was  another  story,  like  my  grandfather's,  but  this  was  one  I  could  understand  and  believe.  My  grand-  mother's  voice  was  firm,  and  what  she  told  me  was  no  more  than  what  I  al-  ready  knew.  Mother  was  not  really  dead;  my  father,  though  he  wept  and  bit  his  fist,  had  been  wrong.  I  let  my  grandmother  hold  me  for  a  moment,  and  went  out  to  play.   Dying,  in  the  Bishop  family,  was  no  more  to  be  talked  about  freely  than  other  natural  functions.  Mourning  was  brief,  and  the  children  were  usually  spared.  I  did  not  attend  my  mother's  funeral  or  her  burial,  or  see  her  dead.  After  that  morning,  there  was  no  more  talk  of  her  death  in  my  hearing.  Early  in  the  afternoon,  my  father  took  me  over  to  his  father's  house,  and  I  stayed  there  for  three  days,  helping  my  other  grandfather  tend  his  chickens  and  paint  his  truck,  while  the  body  of  my  mother  lay  (unknown  to  me)  before  the  glazed  green  tile  fireplace  in  the  Bish-  ops'  living  room.  I  knew,  surely,  that  I  was  being  kept  out  of  the  way  for  her  funeral,  but  I  didn't  know  why.  I  did  not  return  to  the  Bishop  house  until  the  day  after  her  burial  in  the  family  plot  in  the  cemetery  at  Corinth,  ten  miles  away.  When  my  father  came  for  me,  it  was  not  to  take  me  with  him  back  to  [REDACTED].  He  had  talkedthings  over  with  my  grandmother  and  the  Doctor,  he  told  me,  and  they  all  thought  it  would  be  better  if  HelenMarie  and  I  stayed  on  with  the  Bishops  for  a  while.  It  was  almost  summer,  soon  it  would  be  hot,  there  was  more  room  in  Mere-  dith,  and  we  would  have  better  care.  By  fall,  he'd  find  someone  to  keep  house  for  us  in  [REDACTED],  and  everything  would  work  out  all  right.  He  left  me  at  the  Bishops'  and  drove  back  to  the  city.  A  week  or  so  later,  Helen  Marie  finally  came  back  from  the  hospital.  A  nurse,  Miss  Rutledge,  brought  her.  They  took  my  mother's  old  room,  and  Miss  Rutledge  stayed  on,  sleeping  next  to  the  crib.  My  sister  nearly  died  in  her  first  few  weeks  at  home.  She  had  no  wet  nurse,  and  none  of  the  formulas  worked.  She  came  down  with  croup.  The  house  stank  of  sour  vomit  and  diapers,  and  echoed  with  her  angry  crying.  My  youngest  aunt,  Aunt  Elda,  came  home  to  live,  quitting  her  job  in  Ann  Arbor.  The  kitchen  became  a  laboratory,  the  counters  and  the  en-  amelled  table  cluttered  with  beakers,  scales,  and  cans  of  Dextromalt,  Karo  " b" syrup,  powdered  milk.  Everything  in  the  house  went  toward  keeping  the  baby  alive.  I  was  left  out-hurried  through  breakfast,  dinner,  and  supper,  and  shooed  away  to  play.  I  felt  sapped  of  life,  as  ifit  were  being  transfused  from  me  into  that  raging,  insatiable  monster.  I  hated  her;  if  it  weren't  for  her  coming,  my  mother  would  still  have  been  there.  Then,  one  day,  Helen  Marie  was  well  and  Miss  Rutledge  left.  My  sister  lay  in  her  buggy  in  the  side  yard  each  morning,  taking  the  sun.  We  opened  windows  and  put  up  the  porch  screens.  People  came  to  call.  We  went  for  drives  along  the  lake  shore  in  the  eve-  ning.  My  father  came  nearly  every  weekend,  and  he  stayed  for  two  weeks  in  July.  He  gave  me  a  back-yard  gym  and  a  bike.  We  drove  to  the  Corinth  cemetery,  where  he  showed  me  my  mother's  grave.  There  was  no  sign  of  the  burial;  the  plot  had  been  sodded  and  the  grass  was  dark  green.  By  midsummer,  my  grandmother,  who  wore  black  for  the  first  months,  let  herself  be  persuaded  by  Aunt  Elda  to  put  on  her  flowered  summer  frocks  again.  I  was  giving  little  thought  to  my  mother's  absence.  The  details  of  a  new,  busy  life  filled  my  days  and  sent  me  to  bed  tired  at  night.I  made  friends  with  the  Keller  boys,  who  were  visit-  ing  for  the  summer  at  a  house  up  [REDACTED]  Street,  and  I  introduced  them  to  the  ravine,  where  we  played  rougher  games  than  my  mother  and  I  had  played.  OldMr.  Keller,  their  grand-  father,  was  a  wholesale  grocer;  we  cadged  wooden  boxes  from  him  and  built  a  clubhouse  in  their  barn.  I  was  seldom  home.  All  the  family  was  taking  my  moth-  er's  loss  calmly,  or  so  it  appeared.  Yet  each  Sunday,  when  my  father  came  from  [REDACTED],  we  drove  to  Corinth  to  visit  my  mother's  grave.  We  brought  fresh  flowers  from  the  garden  for  the  spiked  green  tin  vases,  stuck  in  the  ground  by  the  new  headstone.  The  plot  was  large,  and  held  a  dozen  graves;  there  were  shrubs  in  the  corners,  and  beds  of  flowers  along  the  edges.  My  grandmother  and  Aunt  Elda  tended  the  beds,  transplanting  new  flowers  from  the  garden  at  home,  while  my  sister  lay  in  herwicker  basket  near  them,  and  my  father  and  Dr.  Bishop,  talking,  walked  up  and  down  the  cemetery  paths.  With  garden  shears,  I  clipped  at  the  long  grass  that  the  care-  taker's  mower  missed,  until  I  was  tired  of  work  and  was  sent  to  play.  We  were  domesticating  her  death.  Our  visits  to  the  cemetery  came  to  be  " b"as  familiar  and  as  natural  as  our  visits,  often  during  the  same  afternoon,  to  my  great-aunts  and  cousins  in  Corinth  who  were  still  alive.  My  mother's  death,  and  her  lying  buried  there,  came  to  seem  natural,  too,  as  natural  as  spring  giving  way  to  summer,and  summer  to  fall.  And  yet,  though  I  understood  that  my  mother's  body  lay  in  the  Corinth  cemetery,  I  still  had  the  feeling,  supported  by  what  my  grand-  mother  had  said  of  Heaven,  that  she  was  alive.  It  was  a  feeling  I  kept  to  myself.  Now  and  then,  I  felt  her  presence-  not  as  a  ghost,  not  anything  I  could  sense.  She  seemed  to  be  with  me,  but  just  on  the  other  side  of  a  tough,  cloud-  ed  membrane  that  neithershe  nor  I  could  pierce.  And  a  few  times,  I  felt  her  more  intimately,  in  some  buoyancy  of  spirit,  or  in  a  sharp,  momentary  recollection  of  my  well-being  before  her  death,  or  in  the  occasional  will  to  be  well  or  to  do  well  that  sprang  up  inside  me  just  when  I  was  at  my  worst.  And  once,  latein  August,  I  thought  I  saw  her  ghost-thinking,  at  the  same  time,  that  it  was  an  illusion.  I  was  standing  outside  the  Bishop  house,  lean-  ing  against  one  of  the  pair  of  catalpas  planted  beside  the  front  walk.  It  was  toward  evening,  on  a  Saturday,  and  I  was  waiting  for  my  father  to  arrive  from  [REDACTED];  he  usually  drove  up  about  nine.  The  front-porch  light  and  the  lights  in  the  living  room  had  not  yet  been  turned  on.  My  grandmother  and  Aunt  Elda  were  somewhere  in  the  back  of  the  house.  My  grandfather  was  out  on  a  call.  Through  thelarge  window  of  the  music  room  I  saw  a  figure  in  white  pause  in  the  doorway  to  the  room,  as  if  listening  or  looking  for  something,  one  hand  raisedto  turn  on  the  light.  But  no  light  went  on,  and  after  a  moment  the  figure  with-  drew,  as  if  satisfied  that  everything  was  in  order.  It  had  to  be  my  grandmother  or  my  aunt-perhaps  they  had  heard  a  noise-yet  I  shivered.  N  the  fall,  my  loneliness  overtook  me.  I  looked  around,  and  saw  that  my  mother  had  indeed  gone  for  good,  and  that  my  father  had  left  my  sister  and  me  to  be  raised  by  people  who  were  gray  and  old.  I  had  been  advanced  another  year  to  the  sixth  grade,  skip-  ping  the  fifth,  which  meant  that  the  boys  in  my  class  were  all  two  years  older  and  stronger  than  I.  I  found  myself  first  in  class  in  studies-I  didn't  have  the  cunning  to  play  dumb-and  last  in  sports.  I  gave  up  sports.  The  Keller  boys  had  gone,  and  after  school" b"I'd  go  down  to  the  ravine,  or  hang  around  my  room,  or  go  off  to  the  public  library.  I  became  a  bookworm.  I  brought  home  six  books  at  a  time  and  went  through  two  a  day.  &quot;This  is  our  walking  encyclopedia,&quot;  my  grandfather  said.  The  librarian  was  kind,  and  took  me  for  a  prodigy.  I  may  have  been,  but  I  dissipated  my  gifts.  Though  I  read  the  proper  books  she  gave  me,  it  was  with  none  of  the  ardor  with  which  I  turned  to  books  I  took  from  the  adult  shelves  and  kept  hidden  in  the  children's  room,  behind  bound  volumes  of  St.  Nicholas  Magazine.  I  discovered  a  taste  for  hor-  ror.  Rohmer,  Wallace,  Poe,  books  on  witches,  voodoo,  prisons,  executions,  hospitals,  plagues,  volcanic  eruptions,  earthquakes,  tidal  waves,  grave  rob-  bers,  cadavers,  wars-I  gourmandized  them  all.  Nothing  could  frighten  me  enough.  The  books  were  weak  things,  but  I  got  from  them  what  I  needed  to  frame  fantasies  of  my  own.  There  was  a  reason  for  this,  of  course;  I  know  that  now.  Itold  myself  tales  to  keep  from  thinking  of  what  was  worse-my  abandonment,  my  mother's  death.  I  lay  in  bed  and  saw  Chinese  pirates,  hatchets  raised,  creep  out  of  secret  panels  in  my  walls.  The  laundry  chute  in  the  hall  next  to  my  bedroom  hid  monsters.  Falling  asleep,  I  saw  the  ceiling  descend  upon  me  slowly,  and  I  started  up,  panting.  Asleep,  I  woke  from  dreams  in  which  someone  or  something  just  outside  my  window  was  rapping,  cry-  ing  to  be  let  in.  I  had  nightmares.  I  was  covered  with  boils  that  burst,  and  out  of  them  came  snakes,  mice,  bats,  and  little  cursing  black  men.  Odd  sensations  began  to  come  over  me.  Lying  in  bed  one  night,  I  felt  my  big  toes  growing-growing  until  they  felt  like  potatoes.  It  was  ridiculous,  but  I  was  afraid  to  look  at  them.  They  were  the  wrong  size,  they  would  have  to  be  cut  off.  I  couldn't  bear  the  thought.  I  wiggled  them,  and  they  felt  bigger,  and  then  the  feeling  passed  and  I  fell  asleep.  But  the  illusion  returned  from  time  to  time,  until  I  lay  awake  waiting  for  it,  stiff  with  anxiety.  I  was  frightened;  it  was  something  over  which  I  had  no  control.  Later  in  the  year-it  would  have  been  November  or  December,  for  the  grass  in  the  park  I  cut  through  on  the  way  to  school  was  tipped  with  frost-  I  was  assailed  by  something,  not  so  much  a  sensation  as  the  lack  of  it,  that  :|  frightened  me  more.  I  was  late  for  school,  the  first  bell  had  already  rung,  and  I  was  hurrying  through  the  little  park  (it  was  only  a  block  square),  run-  " b'ning  over  in  my  head  a  poem  I  had  memorized  and  was  to  recite  before  the  class.  I  had  chosen  it  myself;  it  was  by  Eugene  Field,  the  stanzas  were  short,  and  the  story  concerned  a  boy  and  girl  who  died  from  eating  green  peaches.  I  was  halfway  through  the  poem  and  halfway  through  the  park,  walking  quickly,  when  I  felt  my  heart  slow  and  my  senses  and  my  brain  stop  dead,  though  everything  outside  me  was  go-  ing  on  just  the  same.  I  seemed  to  be  in  another  world,  as  if  I  were  a  ghost,  as  if  I  were  enclosed  by  glass.  In  that  state,  wherever  it  was,  everything  seemed  to  be  whirring  and  disconnected,  like  stripped  gears.  Wheels  in  my  head,  and  wheels  outside.  I  was  choking  with  impatience  and  disgust;  it  was  as  if  the  firmament  had  cracked  and  through  it  I  could  see  chaos.  And  then  the  world  came  flooding  back.  It  had  only  been  a  few  seconds;  I  had  gone  on  walking,  and  I  was  nearly  across  the  park.  The  brick  school  was  just  before  me,  with  knotted,  leafless  vines  of  ivy  snaking  across  its  face.  The  tardy-bell  began  to  ring,  slowly.  I  hurried.  Above  me,  there  was  a  flurry  of  sparrows.  I  looked  back  from  the  steps.  Every-  thing  was  where  it  should  be,  looking  new.  That  experience  of  dislocation  or  estrangcment\xef\xac\x81whatever  it  was-re-  turned  often,  but  only  when  I  was  alone  and  out-of-doors.  By  late  fall,  I  was  going  to  the  library  even  more,  for  in  that  place,  so  full  of  promises  and  distractions  and  fabricated  terrors,  I  was  set  free  from  my  own  fears.  And  there  was  company  in  the  library,  too.  Any-  one  could  enter-people  of  whom  my  grandmother  disapproved,  people  we  would  never  have  in  the  house:  Minc-  ing  Walter,  who  dressed  in  checked  suits  and  lived  with  his  sister;  Jerry  Morris,  the  tongue-tied  boy,  whom  we  called  &quot;Dewwy  Mahwiss,&quot;  and  who  tried  to  read  aloud  to  himself  in  the  library;  the  river-bottom  Irish;  Ne-  groes;  servants;  strangers;  farmers;  Jews.  Their  leavings  were  among  the  oily  pages  of  the  popular  novels.  I  found  crumbs,  flowers,  letters,  lists,  hairs,  ink  blots,  pins,  and  pencilled  vitu-  perations  in  them.  The  library  first  gave  me  what  I  discovered  later  in  amusement  parks,  resorts,  museums,  transcontinental  trains-a  promiscuous  society  in  which  I  could  be  silent,  secret,  and  free,  enclosed  and  sustained  by  unknown  possibilities,  and  where  there  was  the  promise,  always,  of  finding  again  what  I  had  lost.  My  dread,  though,  was  becoming  toogreat  to  be  contained  for  long,  ' b"and  I  began  tofear  common  things-  the  night,  sudden  noises,  blood,  foot-  steps  in  the  dark,  waiting  for  someone.  I  seldom  went  to  the  ravine  now.  It  made  me  uneasy-even  the  clearing  where  my  mother  and  I  used  to  play.  To  get  to  the  library,  I  passed  the  ravine  at  another  place,  where  Superior  Street  crossed  it  on  a  fill.  The  ravine  was  wilder  and  deeper  there  than  where  we  had  played,  and  frightening  to  me  near  dusk  and  after.  The  side-  walk  was  of  rough  concrete,  the  kind  that  jars  a  roller  skater's  teeth  and  joints,  and  it  had  been  tipped  and  buckled  in  several  places  by  the  roots  of  trees.  Between  it  and  the  drop  into  the  ravine,  there  was  only  a  double-  railed,  whitewashed  fence.  Below  was  a  tangle  of  brush  and  brambles.  When  I  was  three,  I  had  been  told  the  bogey-  man  lived  there.  Now  I  thought  of  tramps  and  gypsies  and  wild  beasts.  The  creek  moved  more  swiftly  at  that  point,  and  disappeared  into  a  corru-  gated-iron  culvert  to  pass  under  the  street  to  the  other  side.  In  dry  months,  the  culvert  could  be  crawled  through;  I  went  into  it  one  day  and  out  the  other  side,  carrying  a  flashlight,  on  a  dare  from  the  Keller  boys.  The  head-  less  corpse  of  a  girl  had  been  found  there  once,  we  had  heard.  I  found  nothing  but  slime,  sticky  cobwebs,  stink,  and  the  droppings  of  animals.  Where  the  street  crossed  the  ravine,  it  seemed  to  grow  dark  half  an  hour  before  it  was  dark  in  the  rest  ofthe  town,  and  walking  there  at  dusk  was  like  crossing  a  narrow  bridge  over  a  black  pool  from  which  the  blackness  might  rise  to  overwhelm  you.  In  summer,  spiders  threw  threads  across  the  way  to  tickle  the  nostrils  and  earholes,  and  I  learned  to  walk  with  my  hands  pawing  before  me,  like  a  man  gone  blind.  An  owl  lived  in  the  great  oak  that  rose  from  the  ravine  floor  and  towered  above  the  elms  that  lined  the  street.  There  were  bats  in  the  evening,  and  after  a  rain  earthworms  on  the  sidewalk  would  squish  underfoot.  During  the  winter,  though,  there  seemed  less  to  fear.  Unleaved  trees  of-  fered  no  hiding  place,  and  snow  changed  the  ravine,  covering  its  thickets  and  briars,  levelling  its  contours,  and  lightening  its  dark  places.  I  minded  the  walk  less,  and  began  to  forget  I  had  been  afraid.  Snow  packed  hardon  the  path  across  the  troll  bridge,  and  I'd  sled  there  after  school  until  suppertime.  I  was  good  enough  at  that,  and  soon  I  found  myself  one  of  a  gang.  By  late  winter,  I  was  becoming  my  grandparents'  child.  Nothing  came  of " b"my  father's  plans  to  bring  my  sister  and  me  back  to  [REDACTED].  He  had  been  able  to  drive  to  Meredith  each  weekend  while  the  weather  held,  but  now  he  could  come  less  often  on  the  icy  roads.  I  began  to  draw  close  to  my  grand-  father.  He  was  gentle,  or  he  had  be-  come  gentle;  he  couldnotspeak  sharp-  ly  to  me.  Of  him,  now,  I  remember  only  glimpses.  He  stands  before  the  mirror  in  the  upstairs  bathroom  and  spreads  Burma-Shave  on  his  face;  his  thick  mustache  is  as  white  as  the  shav-  ing  cream.  He  comes  home  late  from  a  call  and  tears  bits  of  bread  into  a  bowl  for  his  bread  and  milk.  He  in-  troduces  me  to  the  president  ofthe  First  Bank  of  Meredith,  a  very  old  man  who  wears  a  gray  sweater  under  his  coat;  the  president's  father  was  the  first  white  man  to  set  foot  in  Meredith,  I  am  told.  &quot;How  could  he  tell  it  was  Meredith,  then?&quot;  I  am  supposed  to  have  said.  And  now  I  see  my  grand-  father  playing  croquet  at  dusk  in  the  yard;  he  is  inshirtsleeves,  and  his  shirt  shines  white.  Moles  have  undermined  the  lawn-their  tunnels  are  every-  where-and  the  croquet  balls  go  com-  ically  astray.  My  grandmother,  worried  by  my  brooding  and  my  wandering,  did  what  she  could  to  keep  me  out  of  mischief;  she  called  my  mother  to  her  aid.  Mother  was  watching  me  day  and  night,  she  told  me  over  and  over.  Mother  was  praying  that  I  would  be  good,  so  that  I  could  join  her  one  day.  Whenever  I  did  anything  bad,  Mother  saw  me.  Wherever  I  was,  there  was  no  hiding  from  her.  She  knew.  I  only  half  believed  such  stories,  but  they  weighed  on  my  soul.  What  if  they  were  true?  What  if  I  were  to  miss  out  on  Heaven  because  I  didn't  brush  my  teeth  at  night?  What  if,  through  some  such  foolish  omission,  I  never  saw  my  mother  again?  It  was  saferto  be  good,  and  I  became  a  good  boy,  except  for  the  times  when  a  burst  of  anger  or  high  spirits  carried  me  away,  and  except  for  my  thoughts,  which  I  thought  invisible.  I  became  overscrupulous.  I  washed  my  hands  five  times  before  meals  and  appeared  at  table  with  clenched  fists  to  keep  out  the  germs.  I  knew  no  gradations  of  sin,  or  of  forgiveness.  I  saw  gold  stars  and  black  marks  in  the  book  of  life,  and  nothing  in  between.  I  behaved,  and  my  imagination  continued  to  grow  rank  and  wild.  Y  springtime,  my  mother  had  firm-  ly  assumed  her  place  in  Heaven-  a  Gothic  figure,  smiling  severely,  as  " b"stiff  as  her  body  in  its  grave.  When  I  thought  of  her,  it  was  there  in  Heaven,  beside  the  recording  angel,  or  in  the  Corinth  cemetery;  I  felt  her  presence  no  longer.  Neither  was  I  conscious  of  her  loss,  and  memories  of  her  alive  were  passing  from  my  mind.  My  father,  too,  was  receding;  he  had  his  place  in  [REDACTED]  now,  my  distant  benefactor.  Only  when  he  was  about  to  come  to  Meredith  or  about  to  leave  did  I  feel  our  old  ties.  I  was  little  trouble  to  anyone,  andno  one  knew  what  was  on  my  mind.  I  had  turned  to  thinking  of  death,  my  mother's  and  my  own,  and  although  I  could  not  conceive  of  being  dead,  I  liked  to  imagine  my  dying,  and  I  hoped  to  die  while  I  could  still  be  good  and  there  was  still  a  chance  of  Heaven.  In  the  attic  of  the  Bishop  house,  I  found  the  skeleton  of  a  child,  a  girl  of  twelve  or  so,  brought  home  by  my  grandfather  from  medical  school  and  forgotten.  It  was  packed  in  a  wooden  box  with  a  sliding  lid.  Its  bones  were  articulated,  and  it  could  be  lifted  out  and  hung,  by  a  ring  set  in  its  skull,  from  a  metal  stand.  It  was  beautiful.  The  child  had  been  small-I  was  told  years  later  she  was  Chinese-and  she  was  about  my  height.  I  could  feel  with  my  fingertips  the  curve  of  her  pelvic  bone,  the  smooth  tibia,  the  prick  of  her  fingers,  the  hollows  of  her  eyes.  I  would  think  of  her  dying  and  of  the  slow  vanish,  ing  of  her  flesh.  Then  I  thought  of  it  happening  to  my  mother,  and  that  it  would  one  day  happen  to  me.  What-  ever  the  truth  about  Heaven  might  be,  the  softness  of  the  flesh  and  the  hard-  ness  of  bone  were  sure.  Lying  under  the  covers  of  my  bed  in  the  dark,  I  cupped  a  hand  over  my  flashlight  and  saw  my  own  bones  shadowed  there  in  pink,  translucent  flesh.  I  found  com-  fort  in  that,  and  in  the  child's  skeleton,  and  discovered  I  was  not  so  much  afraid.  One  Saturday  in  April,  when  Helen  Marie  was  nearly  a  year  old,  my  aunt  went  off  to  visit  a  girl  friend  in  [REDACTED]  Rapids  for  the  weekend,  and  my  grand-  mother  suddenly  took  it  into  her  head,  early  in  the  afternoon,  to  drive  over  to  Corinth  and  visit  her  sister.  My  father  could  not  come  that  weekend,  and  I  was  sulking.  I  didn't  want  to  go  to  visit  Aunt  Sallie,  and  my  grand-  mother-wonder  of  wonders-let  me  stay  behind.  Off  she  went,  with  the  baby  bundled  in  the  wicker  basket  on  the  seat  beside  her.I  was  on  my  way  to  the  library  before  they  were  outof  the  drive.  I  had  found  a  new  obses-  sion,  the  tales  of  Robert  Louis  Steven-  " b"son,  and  was  reading  them  straight  }&quot;  through.  They  seemed  charged  with  |&quot;  some  kind  of  forbidden  energy,  and  I  was  excited  by  them,  without  know-  ing  why.  When  I  returned  home  hungry,  |  about  five-thirty,  I  found  my  grand-  father,  just  back  from  his  office,  there  alone.  43616e616461ma  wouldn't  be  back  un-  til  tomorrow,  so  we  were  bachelors,  he  said.  She  and  Aunt  Sallie  had  got  to  talking  and  she  had  decided  to  spend  the  night.  She  had  called  to  tell  him  there  was  cold  ham  loaf  in  the  icebox  and  potato  soup  on  the  stove,  and  she  had  made  aspice  cake  that  morning.  We  ate  in  the  kitchen,  put  the  dishes  in  the  sink,  and  were  settling  down  toa  game  of  casino  when  the  phone  rang.  It  was  the  city  hospital.  Two  out-of-town  cars  had  collided  on  Dead-  man's  Curve;  at  least  six  people  were  badly  hurt;  they  needed  him  right  away.  My  grandfather  drove  off,  and  I  went  back  to  the  library,  having  prom-  ised  to  be  home  and  in  bed  before  dark.  I  stayed  too  late,  of  course,  until  the  |  lights  flicked  off  and  on  just  before  |:!  closing,  at  ten  minutes  tonine.  It  was  nearly  dark.  How  had  it  got  so  late?  I  plopped  Stevenson  into  his  hiding  place  behind  the  bound  volumes  of  8t.  Nicholas  and  set  out  for  home.  The  sky,  fortunately,  was  not  yet  black.  (In  that  part  of  [REDACTED],  our  clocks  were  well  over  an  hour  ahead  of  sun  time.)  I  ran,  cutting  acrossthe  library  lawn,  then  past  the  telephone  building  and  the  low  Christian  Science  church,  past  old  Mr.  Kane's  brick  house,  across  |  Troy  Street,  past  the  Tennyson  Club,  and  down  toward  the  ravine,  where  my  old  fears  began  to  assail  me.  I  can  still  recall  it,  to  this  day.  The  street  is  }  empty.  A  light  suspended  between  two  poles  casts  shadows  that  move  with  the  wind.  Something  down  in  the  ravine  crackles  in  the  quiet.  It  is  only  a  hun-  dred  long  steps  to  home,  but  I  cannot  make  it.  Someone-a  tramp,  or  gyp-  sy-is  waiting  for  me,  ready  to  force  me  into  the  ravine.  Something  brushes  my  ear,  or  I  think  it  does,  and  I  turn  and  run,  down  the  long,  safe  way  home.  Circling  the  ravine  by  roads  where  the  street  lights  are  brightest,  I  run,  down  Troy  Street,  past  the  Simp-  sons',  Browns',  Burgers',  Kendalls',  Stricklands'-all  houses  I  know.  There  is  light  on  Troy  Street  still;  the  houses  sit  well  back  from  the  sidewalk,  and  the  sky  is  open  to  the  west.  I  decide  to  cut  through  the  ravine  after  all-the  other  way,  across  the  footbridge-and  come  home  by  the  back  door.  The" b"ravine  is  broader  there,  and  open  enough  to  be  light.  I  wait,  catch  my  breath,  and  begin  to  trot.  Around  the  corner  toward  the  ravine,  past  the  Nelsons'.  Mr.  Nel-  son  is  busy  with  his  car  in  the  garage;  his  headlights  go  on,  dim,  but  brighter  than  the  purple  air.  He  waves.  I  wave  back  and  run  on,  on  to  the  end  of  the  sidewalk  and  the  cinder  path  that  dips  into  the  ravine.  The  footing  is  worse  than  I  expect;  the  spring  rains  have  cut  gullies  in  the  path-miniature  ra-  vines  leading  to  thecreek,  which  has  become  a  swollen  miniature  river.  I  am  a  giant,  treading  over  mountain  ranges.  Near  the  bottom,  thecinders  have  washed  away,  leaving  slick  or-  ange  clay,  and  the  giant  slips  and  falls.  It  is  not  much  of  a  fall.  I  have  twisted  my  ankle,  though,  and  now  I  must  go  slowly.  But  at  the  bottom  of  the  ravine,  it  has  grown  dark,  as  black  as  the  bottom  of  a  lake.  My  ankle  hurts,  and  I  sit  on  the  railing  of  the  footbridge  toease  it.  A  minute  ago,  it  seemed  to  be  light.  When  had  it  become  dark?  I  begin  to  speculate-too  busily  to  be  afraid.  What  was  the  moment  of  the  change?  When  I  fell?  When  my  knees  hit  the  ground?  My  knickers  are  soaked  through  at  the  knees,  and  I  feel  the  cold.  Where  was  the  split  second  be-  fore  which  it  was  light  and  after  which  it  was  dark?  The  objects  around  me  begin  to  flow  away,  and  once  more  that  feeling  of  dislocation  overcomes  me  and  I  seem  to  takeleave  of  my  body  and  senses.  In  a  moment  or  two,  my  sensations  begin  to  return-I  am  still  sitting  on  the  bridge-and  first  comes  the  sensa-  tion  of  smell.  But  mixed  with  the  smell  of  wet  clay  from  the  ravine  comes  something  else:  honey-and-almond,  peppermint,  tea,  cold  cream,  linseed  oil,  and  cloves-my  mother's  smells,  coming  to  me  singly  and  then  together.  Presently,  I  can  taste  as  well,  and  then  I  can  hear  and  see.  The  ravine  comes  to  life  in  the  dark,  full  of  hidden  shapes,  like  one  of  thoseleafy  puzzle  drawings  in  which  are  to  be  found  ponies,  or  kittens,  or  Ali  Baba  and  his  thieves.  I  have  a  strong  sense  of  my  mother's  presence,  for  the  first  time  in  many  months.  I  should  be  afraid,  but  I  am  not,  and  I  walk  slowly,  favoring  my  ankle,  feeling  that  my  mother  is  accompanying  me,  across  the  bridge  and  up  the  easy  slope  on  the  other  side,  until  the  appearances  in  the  ravine  are  behind  me.  The  way  home,  once  I  reach  the  street,  is  well  lighted.  A  ball  game  has  just  broken  up  in  the  park" b"nearby,  and  I  hear  the  boys  crying  good  night,  and  the  crack,  crack  of  a  baseball  bat  striking  the  pavement.  WENT  up  to  the  house  by  the  back  way  and,  puzzling  out  how  to  ex-  plain  my  lateness  to  my  grandfather,  let  myself  in.  The  doors  were  never  locked.  The  back  porch  was  dark;  so  were  the  pantry  and  the  kitchen.  Clicking  lights  on  as  I  went,  I  walked  through  the  back  hall  to  the  front  of  thehouse.  Dark,  except  for  the  porch  light  outside.  The  house  was  empty;  the  Doctor  wasn't  home  yet.  What  a  relief!  The  large  clock  in  the  hall  whirred,  paused,  clicked,  and  struck.  Ten  o'clock?  I  counted  nine,  then  looked  at  its  face.  Nine  o'clock.  I  had  left  the  library  only  ten  minutes  before;  I  was  hardly  late  at  all.  With  luck,  I  would  be  in  bed  before  my  grandfather  came.  It  was  quiet,  though,  with  the  house  empty-and  exciting,  as  if  I  were  a  spy  in  enemy  territory.  I  had  never  been  alone  in  the  house  at  night.  I  felt  vic-  torious.  I  had  not  been  afraid  in  the  ravine;  I  could  not  show  fear  now.  I  sat  down  on  the  stairs  and  listened.  Only  the  clock,  with  its  halting  tick,  tock-tick,  tock-tick,  like  an  old  man  A  car  going  by  outside,  the  beams  of  its  lights  sweeping  the  living  room  as  far  as  the  green  tile  fireplace.  The  living  room  in  shadow,  antima-  cassars  on  the  dark-brown  chairs  and  sofa  showing  palely.  Someone  walking  outside,  turning  the  corner.  Coming  here?  No,  turning  the  corner.  Some-  one  going  home.  Upstairs,  there  was  no  sound.  My  bedroom  was  up  there  in  the  back  of  the  house.  How  was  I  to  get  upstairs  and  into  bed,  and  turn  out  the  lights  behind  me,  and  notbe  in  the  dark?  I  wanted  my  grandfather  to  find  me  asleep,  with  the  downstairs  in  darkness,  as  if  I  had  gone  to  bed  be-  fore  night.  Ah,  yes.  There  was  a  way.  I  turned  on  the  lights  in  the  upstairs  hall  by  the  switch  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs.  Then  I  went  back  to  the  pantry  and  came  through  the  kitchen  again,  switching  off  the  lights  behind  me.  Leaving  a  dim  light  on  in  thefront  hall,  I  went  quickly  up  the  stairs,  through  the  hall,  and  to  my  room  before  there  was  time  to  think  of  what  might  possibly  be  behind  the  other  bed-  room  doors.  And  now,  in  bed,  I  felt  safe.  Not  for  long.  I  had  counted  on  the  Doctor's  coming  right  home.  I  would  hear  his  car  in  the  driveway;  thecar  door  would  close,  and  then  the  back  \xc2\xbb!  door,  and  my  grandfather  would  come  " b"up  the  stairs  and  find  me  asleep.  &quot;Rob-  ert,  are  you  playing  possum?&quot;  he  would  say,  and  I  might  sit  up  in  bed  and  say  yes,  and  where  had  he  been?  But  he  didn't  come,  and  he  didn't  come.  Where  was  he?  Had  he  gone  to  the  scene  of  the  accident,  to  Dead-  man's  Curve,  and  been  killed  there  himself?  I  could  see  him  lying  among  the  bloody,  contorted  corpses,  a  car  overturned  just  behind  them,  one  wheel  spinning.  The  phone  rang,  bringing  bad  news.  I  couldnot  answer;  it  would  mean  go-  ingout  into  the  black  hall.  I  let  it  ring,  and  lay  there,  counting  the  rings.  Twelve  times.  Thirteen.  Fourteen.  Then  nothing,  though  I  heard  ringing  still  in  the  empty  house.  Then  there  was  nothing  at  all,  and  I  lay  stiff  in  my  bed,  hands  on  my  belly,  trying  not  to  give  in  to  my  anxiety.  A  few  weeks  be-  fore,  I  had  invented  horrors  and  sought  out  fear.  Now  I  was  tired;  I  had  had  enough.  Yet  as  I  lay  in  bed  with  my  eyes  shut,  straight  as  a  stick,  the  covers  up  to  my  chin,  images  came  unsum-  moned  to  my  eyes.  A  bearded  shepherd  who  held  a  ram  on  a  leash,  straining  to  break  free.  A  drowned  girl  with  staring  eyes.  A  plane  diving  at  me,  its  machine  gun  blazing  through  the  propeller  blades.  I  could  not  get  past  the  images,  across  the  threshold  to  sleep.  It  would  be  better  to  stay  awake.  I  got  up  and  dressed  again,  and  went  through  the  house  turning  on  all  the  lights.  In  the  bedrooms,  closets,  bathrooms.  The  ceiling  lights  and  the  bridge  lamps  and  the  table  lamps  in  the  living  room,  the  music  room,  and  the  library.  The  kitchen  lights  and  the  lights  on  the  porches,  back  and  front.  The  garage  lights,  which  turned  on  from  the  back  pantry,  and  the  light  above  the  sign  in  the  front  yard,  read-  ing,  in  gilt  on  black,  &quot;FRANK  BISHOP,  M.D.&quot;  I  turned  on  the  cellar  lights  from  the  head  of  the  stairs,  and  locked  and  boltedthe  cellar  doors.  Remem-  bering  the  skeleton,  I  went  upstairs  once  more  and  locked  the  door  to  the  attic.  I  locked  the  front  door,  the  side  door,  the  back  door.  I  switched  on  the  radio,  found  a  dance  band,  and  turned  it  up  high.  I  remembered  the  dining-  room  chandelier  and  turned  it  on,  and  then  I  went  back  to  the  radio  and  danced,  screaming  out  the  words  to  songs  I  knew,  or  making  up  my  own.  My  grandfather  had  to  ring  the  front-door  bell  to  get  in.  It  woke  me.  He  had  not  been  killed  after  all;  sev-  eral  people  had  been  badly  hurt  in  the  accident,  he  told  me,  and  he  had  been  in  the  hospital  operating  room,  work-  " b"ing  with  a  surgeon,  for  hours.  I  had  fallen  asleep,  finally,  with  the  radio  still  on,  and  dreamed  that  all  ofus  were  sitting  in  the  living  room  listening  to  the  music-my  mother  and  father,  Aunt  Sallie  and  Uncle  Albert  from  Corinth,  both  my  grandmothers,  both  my  grandfathers,  Aunt  Nora  and  Un-  cle  Ed  (my  father's  brother),  my  aunts  and  my  uncle  on  my  mother's  side,  and  my  sister  Helen  Marie,  who  was  grown.  My  mother  got  up  to  go  to  bed  and  kissed  each  of  us  good  night.  She  came  last  to  me  and  bent  over-  I  was  still  my  own  size-and  I  kissed  her  on  the  cheek.  I  knew  what  no  one  else  there  knew,  that  she  would  die  in  the  night,  and  I  was  not  allowed  to  tell,  or  show  my  feeling.  I  could  only  kiss  her  good  night.  I  woke  from  the  dream  into  the  brightly  lit  living  room-I  was  lying  on  the  sofa-and  then  fell  asleep  again,  just  before  my  grandfather  came  and  woke  me  to  come  to  the  door.  He  stood  in  the  doorway  and  looked  down  at  me.  &quot;I  put  on  all  the  lights,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  was  worried.&quot;  He  turned  off  the  radio,  sat  me  down  on  the  sofa,  and  sat  down  beside  me.  He  felt  my  hands,  and  then  he  felt  my  forehead  with  his  wrist,.  He  smelled  of  ether.  &quot;What  is  it,  Bobby?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  as  pale  as  a  ghost.&quot;  What  was  I  to  tell  him?  I  could  not  tell  him  the  truth  about  what  had  hap-  pened  in  the  ravine,  or  about  the  fear  that  assailed  me  when  I  got  back  in-  side  thehouse.  It  would  shame  me,  and  besides,  I  hadn't  the  words.  I  would  have  to  tell  him  a  story.  I  told  him  I  had  come  through  the  ravine  and  I  had  found  my  mother's  ghost  there,  sitting  on  the  bench  where  she  used  to  sit,  and  she  had  risen  and  come  toward  me.  &quot;'You've  been  seeing  things,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;There  aren't  any  ghosts.&quot;  &quot;I  sew  her,&quot;  I  insisted.  &quot;She  was  sit-  ting  on  the  bench,  and  then  she  got  up  and  began  to  walk.&quot;  I  could  see  her  more  clearly  as  I  spoke.  &quot;She  was  car-  rying  a  baby,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'That's  enough,  grandfather  said.  &quot;She  was  carrying  a  baby,  and  she  walked  toward  me,  very  slowly.  One  of  her  legs  was  dragging.  She  was  dressed  all  in  white,  and  her  hair  was  down,  and  there  was  blood  running  down  her  front.&quot;  I  would  make  him  believe  me.  My  grandfather  had  got  up,  but  now  he  sat  down  heavily  on  the  sofa  beside  me.  &quot;It  was  only  your  imagina-  " b"tion,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  have  to  put  it  out  of  your  mind.&quot;  &quot;I  only  saw  her  for  a  minute,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Then  she  said  something  and  went  away.&quot;  &quot;What  was  it?&quot;  my  grandfather  said.  He  was  interested.  &quot;It  was  'Come  back,  come  back,&quot;  &quot;  I  said.  He  was  silent,  and  then  he  took  me  up  to  my  bed  and  sat  with  me  until  I  fell  aSlCCp\xe2\x80\x98  My  grandfather  woke  me  at  six-  thirty  the  next  morning,  his  usual  hour.  I  could  smell  coffee,  and  bacon  frying.  I  wanted  to  stay  in  bed,  buthe  pulled  off  the  covers  and  made  me  get  up.  After  breakfast,  we  walked  down  to  the  ravine,  taking  the  back  way,  the  way  I  had  come  the  night  before.  It  was  chilly.  The  sun  was  not  yet  high  enough  to  reach  into  the  ravine,  and  dew  hung  from  the  grass.  We  found  wild  flowers  in  the  clearing  and  along  the  creek,  and  I  told  my  grandfather  their  names.  My  mother  had  taught  them  to  me  the  year  before-spring  beauties,  trillium,  blood-  root,  adder's-tongues.  During  the  WorldWar,  he  told  me,  the  neighbor-  hood  children  had  planted  a  vegetable  garden  in  the  clearing.  My  mother,  a  girl  then,  was  in  command  of  the  proj-  ect.  There  were  stringbeans,  carrots,  beets,  and  spring  onions.  The  rabbits  had  taken  them  all.  They  were  not  patriotic  rabbits,  my  mother  had  said.  We  walked  over  to  the  bench  under  the  butternut  tree  and  sat  down.  He  turned  and  pointed  to  a  rag  caught  on  a  bush  just  back  of  the  bench.  &quot;'That  must  be  what  you  saw  last  night,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  was  just  a  fluttering  rag,  and  you  imagined  the  rest.&quot;  He  took  the  rag  from  the  bush  and  stuffed  it  into  his  overcoat  pocket.  Everything  around  us  seemed  natural  to  me,  and  in  its  right  place  again.  What  had  I  been  thinking  of  to  lie  to  him  the  night  before?  He  sat,  his  hands  upon  his  knees,  and  looked  at  me.  &quot;I  haven't  been  down  here  in  years,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Your  mother  used  to  come  here  often  when  she  was  a  little  girl.  She  would  run  away  and  hide  here,  and  I  would  come  down  to  find  her.&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;'Your  mother  was  our  first  child,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  loved  her  very  much.  I  can't  tell  you  why  she  had  to  die  so  young,  but  there  was  nothing  we  could  do.&quot;  &quot;We  will  see  her  in  Heaven,&quot;  I  said.  He  nodded.  &quot;'There  was  nothing  I  could  have  done,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  she  was  my  own  daughter.&quot;  I  looked  up  at  him.  How  strange!  How  strange  that  I  had  never  thought     " b"ofthat  before.  My  mother  was  [REDACTED]-  pa  Bishop's  daughter.  He  was  her  father,  I  was  her  son.  He  had  lost  her,  too.  My  father  had  lost  her,  and  my  sister.  And  my  mother  had  lost  her  life  and  lost  us  all.  &quot;Your  mother  is  buried  in  the  Corinth  cemetery,&quot;  my  grandfather  said.  &quot;That  is  where  my  father  and  mother  are  buried,  and  where  your  grandmother  and  I  will  be  buried  some-  day-and  where  you  may  be,  too,  if  you  want  to  be,  when  it  comes  your  turn.  Your  mother's  body  lies  there,  and  her  soul  is  in  Heaven.  I  don't  want  to  hear  any  more  talk  of  ghosts.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not.  I  promise,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'There  was  never  any  ghost.  That  was  only  a  story.&quot;  "