 b"IN  the  third  summer  of  World  I  War  II,  the  sunlight  that  filtered  through  the  canvas  stretched  be-  tween  the  roof  girders  of  [REDACTED]'s  Liverpool  Street  station  heightened  the  evidence  of  bomb  damage  and  the  general  dinginess.  And  when  the  train  from  [REDACTED]  drew  in,  midmorning  on  a  late  July  day,  and  some  twenty  small  boys  dressed  in  gray  flannel  shorts,  purple  blazers,  and  straw  boaters  spilled  off  it,  a  foreigner  might  well  have  thought  that  there  would  always  be  an  England.  I  was  there  to  meet  one  of  them-  the  eight-year-old  son  of  a  friend  I  had  been  visiting  in  the  country,  who,  knowing  I  was  going  to  [REDACTED]  to  see  a  dentist,  had  asked  me  to  pick  David  up  and  bring  him  home.  The  boys  had  come  from  King's  College  pre-  paratory  school,  which  supplies  the  choristers  for  King's  CollegeChapel.  The  choristers  receive  free  schooling,  but  David  was  not  one  of  them.  After  he  had  competed,  unsuccessfully,  in  a  voice  trial  the  previous  year,  his  mother  decided  to  send  him  to  that  school  anyway,  as  a  paying  boarder.  The  reputation  of  the  school  was  high,  and  the  atmosphere  impressed  her  as  being  happy.  Now,  wearing  his  color-  ful  summer  uniform,  David  was  coming  home  for  the  holidays  after  his  first  term.  Having  been  warned  to  expect  me  instead  of  his  mother,  he  greeted  me  cheerfully  and  affec-  tionately.  His  trunk  had  been  sent  ahead  of  him  the  day  before,  and  he  carried  a  small  suitcase.  I  did  not  think  he  would  want  to  carry  it  around  in  [REDACTED],  so  we  went  in  a  taxi  to  Mary-  lebone  station,  from  which  we  planned  to  leave  that  afternoon,  and  put  it  in  the  Left  Luggage  Office.  I  gave  him  the  ticket  to  stow  in  his  small  purse,  which  he  had  drawn  out  of  a  pocket,  politely  offering  to  pay  for  the  storage.  When  I  had  agreed  to  meet  him,  I  told  his  mother  that  my  appoint-  ment  was  for  two-thirty,  and  so  he  would  have  to  come  with  me  and  sit  in  the  dentist's  waiting  room.  After-  ward,  I  said,  if  there  was  time,  I  would  take  him  to  Selfridge's,  in  Ox-  ford  Street,  to  see  a  Spitfire  that  was  on  view  in  the  basement.  I  told  her  we  would  catch  the  four-ten  train  from  Marylebone  and  should  be  home  by  five-thirty.  Since  the  war  started,  she     had  been  living  in  a  small  cottage  in  Buckinghamshire,  a  mile  and  a  half  from  Gt.  Missenden  station.  There  were  two  rail  routes  from  [REDACTED]  to  Gt.  Missenden-the  suburban  line,  from  Baker  Street,  and  the  main  (Lon-  donand  North  Eastern)  line,  from  Marylebone,  which  I  preferred,  though  the  trains  ran  less  frequently  than  those  from  Baker  Street.  She  had  said  that  she  wanted  to  make  a  special  cake  for  David's  homecoming,  which  she  would  not  be  able  to  do  if  she  went  to  meet  him,  but  I  thought  there  was  another  reason  for  her  staying  home.  She  had  recently  been  ill,  and  for  more  than  a  year  had  been  under  great  strain  be-  cause  her  husband  was  a  prisoner  of  the  Japanese,  and  until  a  month  before  she  had  not  known  that  he  was  alive.  Prob-  ably  she  was  just  not  up  to  the  trip.  I  told  David  the  plan  for  the  day,  and  when  a  little  later,  riding  down  Oxford  Street  on  our  way  to  lunch,  we  passed  Selfridge's,  I  pointed  to  the  store  and  said  that  was  where  the  Spit-  fire  was  on  show.  David  said,  &quot;Whoop-  ee!&quot;  We  had  lunch  in  the  restaurant  on  the  top  floor  of  Marshall  &amp;  Snel-  grove's  store,  farther  down  Oxford  Street.  David  had  tomato  soup,  three  sausages-one  off  my  plate-mashed  potatoes,  carrots,  peas,  and  apple  pie,  washed  down  with  two  glasses  of  fizzy  synthetic  orange-  ade.  While  I  drank  a  cup  of  coffee,  he  sucked  some  boiled  sweets,  which  he  took  out  of  a  pocket  in  his  shorts.  They  were  stuck  to  the  paper  they  had  come  in,  which  he  re-  moved  from  his  mouth  daintily  with  one  dirty  finger.  He  hadn't  wanted  to  wash  before  lunch,  and  as  I  had  wanted  us  to  join  the  queue  waiting  for  tables,  I  had  not  pressed  the  matter.  But,  lunch  over  and  the  bill  paid  at  the  cash  desk,  I  showed  him  a  door  opposite,  marked  &quot;Gentlemen.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;When  you  come  out,  wait  for  me  here,  by  the  door.  I  am  going  along  to  the  ladies',  and  may  be  longer  than  you,  if  there  is  a  queue.  So  you  just  waithere  for  me.'  COULD  not  have  been  away  more  than  seven  or  eight  minutes,  but  when  I  came  back  to  the  place  where  I  had  told  David  to  wait  he  wasn't  there.  I  let  five  minutes  pass,  and  then  won-  dered  if  he  was  sick.  Near  the  door,  an  Army  officer  and  a  woman  were  sitting" b"on  a  couch  having  a  whispered  conver-  sation.  He  was  the  only  male  in  sight.  The  summer  sale  was  on  in  the  store,  and  women  were  everywhere,  crowd-  ing  the  lifts,  pushing,  buying,  eating-  and  queuing  to  eat-in  the  restaurant.  I  said  to  the  officer,  &quot;Please,  would  you  mind  going  inside,  there,  and  see  if  there  is  a  small  boy  in  trouble?  He  is  wearing  gray  flannel  shorts,  a  purple  blazer,  and  a  straw  hat-a  boater.&quot;  The  officer-rather  reluctantly,  I  thought-stood  up,  and  the  woman  gave  me  a  glacial  stare.  The  officer  went  inside  and  came  back  and  said,  &quot;'There  is  no  boy  there.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;There  ust  be!  Did  you  look  everywhere?\xe2\x80\x9d  \xc2\xab'There  is  no  boy  there,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  have  you  seen  him  come  out?  Was  he  standing  here?&quot;  They  had  not  seen  him.  I  went  back  to  the  cash  desk  and  spoke  to  the  woman  in  charge.  She  had  not  seen  the  boy.  She  was  busy,  of  course,  but  still  he  would  have  had  to  pass  the  desk  on  his  way  to  the  lifts,  the  stairs-going  in  any  direction  except  back  into  the  restaurant.  She  got  down  off  her  stool  and  said,  &quot;Follow  me.&quot;  She  pushed  open  the  door  marked  &quot;Gentlemen,&quot;  and  I  followed  her.  The  place  was  empty.  I  kept  calling  &quot;David!  David!&quot;  fruitlessly,  while  she  looked  everywhere.  There  were  two  other  doors  in  the  room-one  that  was  locked,  and  one  that  opened  onto  a  railed  stone  parapet.  Below  it  was  a  well.  I  looked  over  the  railing  and  down  into  the  well,  feeling  sick  and  frightened,  but  there  was  nothing  at  the  bottom  except  broken  wooden  crates  and  two  dustbins.  &quot;What  do  we  do  now?&quot;  I  asked.  The  woman  said  she  would  call  the  store  manager.  'They  would  have  the  building  searched  and  everyone  ques-  tioned.  The  boy  could  only  have  wan-  dered  off,  the  way  children  did,  and  he  would  be  found.  I  said  he  had  no  right  to  wander  off.  My  instructions  had  been  clear,  and  he  knew  I  had  to  be  in  Harley  Street  at  the  dentist's  at  two-  thirty.  It  was  nearly  that  time  now.  The  woman  picked  up  her  telephone,  and  before  she  spoke  into  it  she  said  to  me,  &quot;Don't  worry.  You  should  know  your  little  boy.&quot;  I  told  her  he  was  not  my  little  boy,  which  was  making  everything  worse.  While  she  was  summoning  the  store  manager,  I  walked  to  the  lifts  and  asked  the  attendants,  in  turn,  as  they  came  up,  if  they  had  seen  a  small  boy  dressed  in  that  uniform.  They  hadn't.  The  store  manager  came.  He  and  I" b"went  through  the  door  marked  &quot;Gen-  tlemen.&quot;  He  looked  over  the  railing  of  the  parapet.  &quot;'That's  a  dangerous  place,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;A  venturesome  child  might  easily-&quot;  &quot;'This  door  should  be  locked,&quot;  he  said.  Then,  half  reprovingly:  &quot;Why  didn't  you  take  him  into  the  ladies'  with  you?&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Because  the  last  time  his  mother  and  I  did,  a  woman  said,  ''That  boy  is  too  old  to  be  in  here.'&quot;  We  left  and  went  to  the  tele-  phone  on  the  cash  desk  and  summoned  the  store  detective  and  a  couple  of  as-  sistants.  In  pairs,  we  questioned  the  doormen  at  every  entrance  and  combed  all  departments,  likely  or  unlikely  to  attract  a  boy  of  eight  years.  We  went  shoving  our  way  through  the  crowds  of  women  milling  around  the  counters,  the  showcases,  the  rows  of  garments  on  hangers;  through  toys,  linens,  lamp-  shades,  millinery,  baby  wear,  trunks,  artificial  flowers,  ribbons,  shoes,  stock-  ings,  tweeds,  silks,  furnishings.  We  went  through  doors  marked  &quot;Staff  Only&quot;  and  &quot;No  Admittance,&quot;  asking,  asking,  had  anyone  seen  a  small  boy  in  gray  shorts,  purple  blazer,  and  straw  boater.  No  one  had.  We  circled  the  building  outside,  spoke  to  women  staring  at  the  bargains  in  the  windows;  we  went  through  the  passages  below  the  store-  the  rooms  where  goods  were  unpacked  and  dispatched.  Then,  more  in  consultation  than  search,  the  store  manager  and  I  went  and  stood  in  the  entrance  arcade  by  the  main  door.  The  doorman  saw  us  and  came  in  from  the  street.  &quot;Not  found  him  yet?&quot;  he  said.  We  shook  our  heads.  &quot;Now  I  think  of  it,&quot;&quot;  the  doorman  said,  &quot;it's  come  back  to  me.  Some  while  ago,  I  saw  a  boy  being  pushed  into  a  taxi  by  a  gentleman.&quot;  &quot;A  little  boy?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;So  high?  In  purple  blazer,  gray  shorts,  and  a  straw  boater?&quot;  The  doorman  said  he  couldn't  be  sure  but  he  thought  so,  and  he  went  out  into  the  street  to  open  the  door  ofa  taxi  that  had  drawn  upby  the  curb  and  to  control  the  mob  of  women  who  had  rushed  it.  I  looked  at  the  store  manager,  and  what  was  in  my  mind  he  spoke.  Al-  though  kidnapping  of  children  was  al-  most  unheard  of,  the  boy  had  been  missing  long  enough  and  one  ought  not  to  take  a  chance.  He  said  I  should  go  to  [REDACTED]  Yard.  We  went  up  in  a  lift  to  his  office,  where  he  telephoned  [REDACTED]  Yard  and  explained  who  I " b"was  and  why  I  was  coming.  When  he  had  finished,  he  turned  to  me  and  said  I  was  to  ask  for  the  Back  Hall  In-  spector.  IT  was  twenty-five  minutes  after  four  by  Big  Ben  when  my  taxi  turned  into  the  entrance  court  of  a  building  that  looks  like  a  cross  between  a  brewery  and  a  Byzantine  church.  Even  in  my  panic  and  anguish,  I  couldn't  help  remembering  how  when  I  was  small  I  had  longed  to  be  taken  to  visit  [REDACTED]  Yard.  Now  my  wish  had  come  true,  the  way  wishes  some-  times  do  years  after,  in  an  unwelcome  manner.  The  portals  were  intimidat-  ing-aseptic,  like  a  hospital's;  grim,  like  a  prison's.  Men  of  the  [REDACTED]  metropolitan  police,  seen  against  the  background  of  their  headquarters,  pre-  sent  a  more  formidable  appearance  than  when  they  are  controlling  traffic  or  patrolling  a  residential  street  after  dark.  When  I  had  given  my  name  to  one  of  them,  saying  that  the  Back  Hall  In-  spector  was  expecting  me,  I  was  shown  into  an  office.  The  Inspector  sat  be-  hind  a  large,  flat-topped  desk.  He  asked  me  to  sit  down  in  a  chair  opposite  him.  Telling  him  about  the  missing  boy  and  the  hunt  for  him  was  like  telling  your  symptoms  to  a  doctor,  for  the  Inspector  gave  me  the  same  quiet  at-  tention.  I  said  what  the  plan  for  the  afternoon  had  been  and  described  what  David  was  wearing.  I  gave  the  names  of  his  parents,  the  address  of  his  moth-  er.  'The  Inspector  lifted  a  telephone  and  spoke.  He  repeated  the  description  of  David's  clothes.  &quot;Gray  flannel  shorts,  purple  blazer,  straw  boater-  won't  be  many  about.  Very  distinc-  tive  ...&quot;  We  waited.  We  talked.  I  smoked.  At  intervals,  the  telephone  buzzed.  No  news.  But  more  instructions  were  given.  I  longed  to  ask  how  many  police  cars  were  out.  I  mentioned  a  girl  I  knew  who  was  driving  for  the  [REDACTED]  police;  they  had  recruited  women  be-  cause  of  the  war.  The  Inspector  said  she  sometimes  drove  him  but  she  was  not  on  duty  that  day.  So  she  wouldn't  be  driving  one  of  those  carsthat  were  patrolling  [REDACTED]  streets.  They  would  already  have  been  to  Marylebone  sta-  tion,  along  Marylebone  Road  to  Baker  Street.  They  would  be  coming  south  to  Oxford  Street  again,  spilling  out  an  inquirer  at  Selfridge's  to  find  out  if  David  had  been  seen  in  the  basement  where  the  Spitfire  was,  then  driving  on  and  around,  stopping  here  and  there  for  the  question  to  be  asked  again:  Had" b"anyone  seen  a  small  boy  in  gray  flan-  nel  shorts,  purple  blazer,  and  straw  boater?  &quot;Has  he  any  money  on  him?&quot;  the  Inspector  asked.  I  said  I  wouldn't  think  he  had  more  than  a  couple  of  shillings,  if  that.  True,  he  had  offered  to  pay  for  the  storage  of  his  suitcase,  but  that  cost  only  six-  pence.  &quot;Is  he  a  venturesome  boy?&quot;  &quot;Far  from,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;In  fact,  he  was  his  mother's  ewe  lamb  till  he  went  away  to  school.  She  always  held  his  hand  crossing  a  street  in  High  Wycombe,  even.&quot;  &quot;Eight  is  young  to  send  them  off,&quot;  the  Inspector  said.  &quot;It's  the  rule,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  it  was  his  father's  wish,  always.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  live  with  his  mother?&quot;  the  Inspector  asked,  and  Itold  him  I  was  merely  on  a  visit  to  her,  between  jobs.  I  told  him  that  my  husband  was  with  the  Air  Force  in  the  Middle  East.  &quot;These  separations  of  young  mar-  ried  couples  everywhere  are  not  a  good  thing,&quot;  the  Inspector  said.  &quot;How  long  have  you  been  on  your  own?&quot;  I  told  him,  stubbing  a  cigarette  out  in  a  white  saucer  on  his  desk.  So  far,  I  said,  with  fingers  crossed  and  tapping  the  wooden  desk,  I  had  been  luckier  than  David's  mother.  When  you  go  to  a  doctor  about  a  worrisome  pain,  you  don't  ask  him  how  he  started  his  career,  where  he  trained,  if  he  is  married  and  has  chil-  dren,  and  what  his  hobbies  and  pleas-  ures  are,  He  asks  you  questions  rel-  evant  to  the  consultation,  and  some  may  include  your  past  and  present  mode  of  life.  But  he  may,  to  establish  or  confirm  trust,  just  touch  on  a  few  outside  matters.  I  could  not  ask  the  Inspector  how  he  came  to  be  where  he  was,  though  I  would  have  liked  to  know.  You  do  not  ask  a  doctor  how  many  patients  he  has  treated  success-  fully,  or  how  many  failures  he  has  had,  and  I  could  not  ask  the  Inspector  anything  about  the  pursuit  of  criminals.  When,  now  and  then,  he  skillfully  asked  me  a  question  about  myself,  I  knew  that  the  information  gained  in  that  seemingly  casual  way  might  be  stored  forever  after.  I  hoped  the  sum-  mary  arrived  at  was  that  I  had  come  there  with  a  genuine  story  of  a  missing  eight-year-old  boy  and  that  I  was  not  a  paranoiac  who  had  cooked  the  whole  thing  up.  We  talked  of-among  other  ir-  relevant  matters-famous  choirs:  King's  College,  [REDACTED],  Westmin-  ster  Abbey,  St.  Paul's.  The  Inspector " b"said  he  had  been  a  chorister  of  St.  Paul's  when  he  was  a  boy.  We  talked  about  1940  and  the  night  at  the  end  of  December  when  the  Wren  churches  in  the  city  went  up  in  flames  like  so  many  fagots  in  a  bonfire.  The  telephone  buzzed.  No  one,  any  where,  had  seen  that  boy.  &quot;What  about  cinemas?&quot;  the  In-  spector  asked  me.  Did  I  think  he  would  go  into  one?  'There  was  the  matter  of  money  again.  How  well  did  the  boy  know  [REDACTED]?  I  said  he  had  never  lived  in  [REDACTED].  He  had  been  born  in  496e646961,  and  his  mother  had  brought  him  and  his  sister  back  in  1939.  He  had  come  up  with  his  mother  for  the  day  now  and  then-to  go  to  the  dentist,  to  see  &quot;Peter  Pan,&quot;  to  visit  the  zoo.  And  he  had  been  through  [REDACTED]  many  times,  going  to  visit  his  grand-  mother  in  [REDACTED].  All  this  time,  I  could  see,  the  door-  man's  story  of  a  boy's  being  pushed  into  a  taxi  by  a  man  had  not  been  taken  seriously.  But  whether  it  had  been  totally  dismissed  I  did  not  know,  and  I  couldnot  bring  myself  to  ask.  The  Inspector  spoke  into  the  tele-  phone  again.  Cinemas  in  and  around  Oxford  Street  were  to  be  visited.  But  when  the  reports  came  in,  no  boy  an-  swering  to  that  description  had  been  seen  buying  a  ticket.  His  name,  flashed  on  screens  in  the  theatres,  had  produced  no  litle  emerging  figure  in  purple  blazer,  holding  a  straw  boater.  Hospitals  then.  At  that  point,  the  Inspector  asked,  &quot;What  about  his  mother  being  told?&quot;  &quot;I'll  wait  for  an  answer  from  the  hospitals,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;As  Itold  you,  she's  been  ill,  and  she's  in  a  pretty  nervous  state  anyway.&quot;  David  wasn't  in  any  of  the  hospitals.  It  was  now  a  quarter  past  six.  I  said,  &quot;I  daren't  tell  his  mother.  And  I  can't  go  back  without  him.  But-supposing  she  is  with  him  some-  where.  Suppose  he  has  got  into  some  trouble  and  someone  has  found  him  and  let  her  know,  and  she  has  come  into  [REDACTED]  tofetch  him.  Will  you  ring  her,  and  if  there  is  no  answer,  we  can  think  that  has  happened.&quot;  &quot;But  if  she  answers?&quot;  the  Inspector  said.  &quot;Then  ask  to  speak  to  me.&quot;  I  gave  him  the  number.  Soon  I  knew  that  someone  had  answered,  because  the  Inspector  was  asking  if  he  could  speak  to  me.  After  a  pause,  he  said,  &quot;Oh.  No,no  message.  I  will  ring  again  later.  Thank  you.  Goodbye.&quot;  He  put  down  the  receiver  and  looked  at  me.  He  said,  &quot;She  says  she  has  been " b" expecting  you  and  her  little  boy  in  from  [REDACTED]  since  half  past  five.  She  concludes  you  missed  the  train.&quot;  I  had  smoked  a  whole  pack,  and  was  down  to  my  last  cigarette.  The  saucer  on  the  desk  was  piled  with  stubs,  the  ones  on  top  clean  of  lipstick;  I  had  bitten  my  lips  dry.  I  thought  about  the  doorman's  story.  Although  the  Inspector  had  said,  earlier-as  the  store  manager  had-  that  kidnapping  was  unlikely,  I  won-  dered  if  his  optimism  was  ebbing.  I  did  not  think  David  would  go  off  with  any  stranger  unless  the  stranger  pretended  to  have  been  sent  by  me  or  his  mother.  That  was  supposed  to  be  the  method  used  by  white-slave  traffickers  in  stories  that  had  wide  circulation  when  I  was  in  my  teens.  To  my  maturer  knowledge,  none  had  ever  been  proved.  But  there  were  maniacs.  ...  &quot;It  is  time  she  was  informed,&quot;  the  Inspector  said,  quietly.  &quot;Oh,  I  can't!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  if  you  tell  her  it  will  be  worse.  She  willcol-  lapse  on  the  spot.&quot;  &quot;Is  there  a  neighbor  who  could?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That  would  be  better.  There  is  one  practically  next  door.&quot;  I  gave  him  the  name  and  the  number.  There  was  no  answer  from  that  number.  She  would  be  outside,  I  thought,  this  nice  summer  evening,  picking  raspberries,  or  feeding  dogs,  or  shutting  up  hens,  or  gone  for  a  walk.  The  telephone  buzzed  again.  Still  no  news,  and  instructions  were  given  for  the  search  to  be  extended  over  a  wider  area,  and  for  Marylebone  and  Baker  Street  stations  to  be  visited  again.  Shops  were  shut  now.  The  rush  hour  was  ebbing,  but  there  would  still  be  a  few  queues  at  bus  stops,  entrances  to  tube  stations.  David  might  be  trying  to  find  his  way  to  someplace.  I  gave  the  Inspector  the  number  of  someone  else,  who  lived  farther  away  from  David's  mother.  He  got  it,  and  when  he  gave  me  the  telephone  I  was  not  very  coherent.  When  I  had  blurted  it  all  out  to  the  astonished  woman  at  the  other  end  of  the  line,  and  had  asked  her  to  go  and  tell  David's  mother,  I  gave  the  telephone  back  to  the  Inspec-  tor  and  told  him  he  had  better  confirm  what  I  had  said.  He  did  so,  but  in  a  quieter  voice,  and  he  asked  her  to  ring  us  back.  Again  we  waited.  I  was  reckoning  how  long  it  would  take  her  on  her  bicycle.  Ten  minutes?  Five  minutes  passed.  Then  ten.  Then  fifteen.  The  telephone  buzzed.  The  Inspector  picked" b"up  the  receiver  and  said,  &quot;Back  Hall  Inspector.  Yes?&quot;  I  thought  it  must  be  a  private  call,  or  one  on  some  other  matter,because  his  face  took  on  a  new  expression;  it  was  relaxed,  and  suddenly  smiling.  He  looked  across  at  me  and,  still  smiling,  gave  me  the  telephone.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Who  is  it?&quot;  &quot;That  you?&quot;  said  the  voice  of  David's  mother.  &quot;But  what  ever's  happened?  David  walked  in  here  five  minutes  ago.  Did  you  lose  each  other  in  a  crowd?&quot;  &quot;&quot;What  has  he  told  you?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;How  did  he  get  home?  Where  has  he  been?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  haven't  had  a  chance  to  ask  him  yet.  Peggy  Simpson  arrived  on  his  heels  with  this  story  of  you  being  at  [REDACTED]  Yard.  He's  walked  all  the  way  from  Missen-  den  station,  with  his  suitcase,  too,  and  he's  very  hungry.&quot;  WO  hours  later,  I  walked  from  Gt.  Missenden  station  to  the  cot-  tage,  but,  unlike  David,  I  was  not  hungry  when  I  got  there.  I  cannot  now  remember  anything  about  leaving  [REDACTED]  Yard,  or  wheth-  er  I  took  a  taxi  to  Baker  Street-it  would  have  been  Baker  Street  at  that  hour-or  not,  or  anything  about  the  train  journey.  This  is  strange,  for  I  have  a  good  memory.  I  can  recall  every  detail  of  the  Inspector's  face.  It  was  heavy,  long,  pale;  his  eyes  were  slate-colored;  his  hair  gray,  straight,  sparse.  He  was  a  little  lined  in  the  cheeks.  But,  after  all,  I  was  with  him  for  quite  a  time.  I  only  remember  walking  up  the  hill  from  the  station  to  cool  my  aching  head,  and  being  greeted  by  David's  mother  in  the  door-  way  of  the  cottage.  She  was  genuinely  sorry.  When  I  had  sat  down,  I  asked,  &quot;What  did  he  tell  you?&quot;  &quot;He  said  when  he  came  out-of  the  gents'  you  weren't  there.&quot;  &quot;I  told  him  to  wait!&quot;  She  smiled.  &quot;He  said  he  couldn't  see  you  anywhere,  so  he  thought  you  had  gone  to  the  dentist's,  and  he  went  out-  side  and  got  a  taxi  to  Marylebone  and  retrieved  his  suitcase.  Lucky  he  had  the  ticket.  There  wasn't  a  train,  so  he  went  to  Baker  Street  and  came  back  on  a  train  from  there.  Wasn't  it  bright  of  him?&quot;  &quot;Very,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;How  much  money  had  he?&quot;  &quot;Nearly  thirty  shillings.  That  was  fortunate,  wasn't  it?  He  would  have  been  lost  without.&quot;  I  said,  somewhat  bitterly,  &quot;He  was" b"lost  with.  There  is  a  gap  inhis  story,  and  there  is  the  time  factor.  I  think  that  when  he  did  get  to  Marylebone  the  four-ten  had  gone,  If  he  found  there  was  no  train  for  Gt.  Missenden,  it  must  have.  What  was  he  up  to,  do  you  think,  in  two  hours?  Have  you  asked  him  that?&quot;  She  said  she  hadn't.  He  was  safely  home,  and  had  obviously  come  to  no  harm,  and  that  was  all  that  mattered.  DAVID\xe2\x80\x99S  mother  let  me  have  it  out  with  him  next  morning,  because,  after  all,  he  had  disobeyed  me.  She  sent  him  in  from  play  to  face  me  in  the  living  room,  when  I  had  gone  down-  stairs  after  a  long  sleep  and  was  re-  freshed  and  ready  for  him.  He  was  in  his  holiday  clothes-old  shorts,  san-  dals,  and  an  Aertex  shirt  that  had  become  too  small  for  him,  was  not  properly  tucked  in,  and  had  a  button  missing.  I  tried  to  press  home  the  enormity  of  his  action  and  the  con-  sequences-the  commotion  he  had  caused,  the  trouble  the  [REDACTED]  police  had  been  put  to.  He  heard  me  in  si-  lence,  with  now  and  then  a  child's  wandering  attention.  He  was  clearly  thinking,  when  heput  his  mind  to  it,  what  was  all  the  fuss  about?  He'd  found  his  way  home  to  Mummy.  So  what?  She  had  not  been  angry  with  him.  He  had  proved  his  self-reliance,  and  that  was  surely  a  matter  for  con-  gratulation.  I  began  to  suspect  he  was  savoring  to  the  full  his  own  importance-hav-  ing  been  searched  for  by  police  cars,  [REDACTED]  Yard's  telephones  busy  on  his  behalf,  all  [REDACTED]  on  the  alert.  He  said  he  was  sorry,  but  he  kept  dogged-  lyto  his  story,  and  I  could  not  make  him  deviate  from  it.  He  had  thought  I  had  gone  off  to  the  dentist  without  him.  He  had  got  a  taxiin  Oxford  Street  and  had  gone  to  Marylebone.  There  was  no  train,  so  he  had  gone  to  Baker  Street.  The  time  factor  meant  nothing  to  him,  and  nothing  could  in-  duce  him  to  add  to  his  story.  The  sending  of  a  police  car  first  to  Marylebone  and  then  to  Baker  Street  stations  had  been  on  a  correct  assump-  tion,  but  it  had  been  too  late;  he  had  already  left  [REDACTED]  and  was  sitting  in  a  suburban  train  on  his  way  to  the  country,.  The  aspect  of  the  whole  af-  fair  that  later  astonished  the  Back  Hall  Inspector  and  all  those  who  had  been  engaged  in  the  search  was  that  no  one  in  Marshall  &amp;  Snelgrove's-except  the  doorman  outside,  whose  reliability  seemed  doubtful-or  at  Marylebone,  whereDavid  had  retrieved  his  suitcase " b" and  asked  about  a  train,  or  at  Baker  Street,  where  he  had  bought  a  ticket  and  boarded  a  train,  remembered  see-  ing  a  small  boy  dressed  in  gray  flannel  shorts,  purple  blazer,  and  straw  boater.  Long  afterward,  Irealized  that  the  lack  of  observation  was  symptomatic;  during  the  war  people  everywhere  were  preoccupied,  and  in  the  vast  crowds  that  filled  [REDACTED]-in  shops,  streets,  and  railway  stations-he  could  easily  have  been  overlooked,  or,  if  seen  in  passing,  immediately  forgotten.  But,  all  the  same,  he  had  not  been  transported  by  magic  carpet,  had  not  been  floating  around  the  sky  in  those  two  hours  that  remained  unaccounted  for.  IT  happened  that  I  did  not  see  David  after  that  visit  to  his  mother  while  the  war  was  on.  Later,  I  saw  him  at  intervals  while  he  was  growing  up.  And  I  methim  by  chance  one  after-  noon  in  [REDACTED],  outside  the  chapel  of  King's  College,  where  he  was  an  undergraduate  in  his  second  year.  By  then,  I  had  begun  to  detect  a  hint  of  embarrassment  accompanying  an  excess  of  politeness  in  his  manner  toward  me  whenever  I  encountered  him.  After  he  had  topped  me  in  height  by  a  good  four  inches,  he  never  seemed  quite  at  ease  with  me.  I  had  never  gone  out  of  my  way  to  seek  him  out  alone,  although  I  believed  he  had  gone  out  of  his  way  more  than  once  to  avoid  being  alone  with  me.  Not  until  the  spring  of  this  year  did  the  opportunity  come  to  tackle  him  properly-to  get  him  in  a  corner.  We  had  been  toasting  his  infant  son  after  the  christening,  and  the  hour  seemed  significantly  propitious.  Also,  hemmed  in  as  we  were  by  champagne  drinkers,  there  was  no  immediate  escape.  &quot;What  did  you  do  that  afternoon  when  you  were  lost  in  I  asked  him.  He  blushed  a  prettypink.  &quot;I've  al-  ways  been  sorry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Especially  when  I  was  older.&quot;  &quot;And  had  acquired  a  conscience?&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so.  But  perhaps  more  an  understanding  of  the  strain  women  were  living  under  in  those  days  with-  out  its  being  added  to.  You  weren't  very  old  then.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Now,  sup-  pose  you  tell  me  what  you  did.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  know  you've  been  wanting  to  ask  me  for  years.  But,  you  see,  you  weren't  where  I  expected  you  to  be.&quot;  &quot;But  Itold  you  to  wait  for  me.&quot;  &quot;So  you  did,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  believe  it" b"came  to  me  that  I  should  have  when  I  was  in  the  taxi  with  the  chap  who  gave  me  the  lift,  because  then  I  knew  I  |  shouldn't  have  taken  it,  but  I  thought  it  was  too  late  to  go  back  and  look  for  you,  as  you  would  certainly  be  at  the  dentist's  by  that  time.  So  Itold  him  I  didn't  want  to  go  to  Marylebone  but  Selfridge's  instead.&quot;  &quot;Suppose  you  start  at  the  beginning,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;when  you'd  come  out  of  the  gents',  that  is,  if  you  can  remember  truthfully.&quot;  &quot;I  can  remember,  '  he  said.  &quot;Well,  you  weren't  there.  I  did  wait  a  minute  or  two,  but  minutes  at  that  age  seem  hours.&quot;   &quot;That  is  what  has  always  puzzled  e,&quot;  I  interrupted.  &quot;Why  you  could  possibly  think  'd  go  off  without  you.  If  it  had  been  your  mother?&quot;  &quot;I  would  have  stayed  in  the  last  place  I  saw  her  till  she  came.  I  know  I  would.  But  youwere  different-  and  I  think  I  would  have  said  not  to  be  depended  on  so  much.  You  were  younger,  for  one  thing.  And  wasn't  there  an  occasion  when  you  were  coming  to  stay  with  us  and  didn't,  because  you  got  on  the  wrong  train?  See  what  I  mean?  Honestly,  I  am  not  trying  to  excuse  myself.  I  know  what  I  did  to  you,  and  it  was  dreadful.  Can  you  forgive  me,  after  all  these  years?&quot;  &quot;When  I  hear  the  rest,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Go  on  from  there.&quot;  &quot;I  went  to  the  lifts,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  I  went  down  in  one  and  out  into  the  Marylebone,  because  you'd  turn  up  there  eventually.  I  hadn't  got  a  watch.  I'd  broken  it  and  it  was  packed  in  the  trunk.  Ididn't  see  a  clock-not  then.  I  tried  to  get  a  taxi,  but  I  got  pushed  aside  every  time  by  women  with  parcels.  It  was  hopeless.  Then  this  chap  noticed  me  and  said  wasn't  anyone  with  me!  I  said  I  had  lost  you,  and  you'd  gone  to  the  dentist's,  and  Ididn't  know  the  address,  and  I  wanted  to  get  to  Mary-  lebone,  because  my  suitcase  was  there  and  you'd  go  there  to  get  the  train,  so  he  said,  'Hop  in,'  and  gave  me  a  shove.  He'd  got  a  taxi,  you  see.  I  don't  know  how,  but  he  had.  Perhaps  he'd  arrived  in  it  and  had  been  into  the  shop  to  collect  something  and  had  kept  it  wait-  ing.  Anyway,  I  got  in,  and  when  the  taxi  had  turned  round  and  was  waiting  at  the  next  traffic  lights,  I  remembered  being  told  never  to  let  a  stranger  give  me  a  ride  anywhere,  so  I  said,  'Please  tell  the  driver  to  stop  at  Selfridge's.  That's  where  I  want  to  go.'  Selfridge's  was  quite  near,  and  I  think  the  driver  was  going  past  there  anyway.  So  I  was " b"dropped  off  there.  Looking  back,  I  think  he  was  a  bit  relieved.  When  I  got  out,  I  thanked  him  and  said  that  was  where  I  was  going  to  meet  you.  I  saw  a  clock  then,  and  there  was  loads  of  time,  I  thought,  if  the  dentist  didn't  keep  you  very  long.&quot;  You  are  telling  me  the  truth,  aren't  you?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That  man  was  all  right?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  he  was  all  right.  Simply  took  pity  on  me.  It  was  a  natural  thing  to  do.  When  I  changed  my  mind,  it  was  a  letout  for  him,  not  having  to  go  out  of  his  way  and  have  his  after-  noon  mucked  up.  He  may  have  won-  dered  if  it  was  all  right  leaving  me  there,  but  decided  I  knew  what  I  wanted.  I  did.  When  I  saw  Selfridge's,  I  remembered  how  much  you  wanted  to  see  the  Spitfire.  I  had,  too,  but  not  as  much  as  you,  naturally.&quot;  &quot;What  ever  made  you  think  I  wanted  to  see  it?&quot;  &quot;Well,  hadn't  you  got  a  proprietary  interest  in  those  days?  I  thought  you  wouldn't  miss  seeing  it  for  emything  and  you'd  be  bound  to  go  there.  But  you  didn't,  as  it  turned  out.  I  couldn't  get  near  the  Spitfire  for  ages.  All  the  schools  had  broken  up  forthe  holiday  about  then,  so  you  can  imagine  what  it  was  like  down  in  that  basement.  You  just  couldn't  move.  I  saw  the  Second  Senior  Chorister.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  speak  to  him?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Did  you  tell  him  what  had  hap-  pened?&quot;  &quot;Speak  to  him?  Me?  He  was  twelve,  and  a  V.IL.P.  Don't  you  know  school  etiquette?  Actually,  there  was  a  lot  to  see,  apart  from  the  Spitfire.  All  round  the  walls,  when  you  could  get  near  them,  were  photos  of  other  planes.  There  were  a  couple  of  Air  Force  men  with  the  Spitfire,  and  if  you  waited  long  enough  one  of  them  would  lift  you  into  the  cockpit,  but  I  didn't.  I  did  begin  to  think  about  the  time  and  the  train.  But  when  I'd  come  up  for  }{  air,  there  was  a  long  and  quite  orderly  queue  for  taxis,  and  I  had  to  wait  my  turn.  That's  how  I  missed  the  train  we  were  supposed  to  be  catching.  Honestly,  I've  been  sorry  for  years.&quot;  &quot;Why  didn't  you  tell  us  all  this  at  the  time?&quot;  I  asked.  He  did  not  answer  for  a  minute  or  two.  He  looked  thoughtful.  &quot;It's  not  easy  at  my  age  to  recapture  the  men-  tality  of  eight,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  it  was  being  in  the  wrong.  First,  not  waiting  for  you,  the  importance  of  that  not  having  properly  sunk  in,  when  it  should  have.  Inattention.  That  was  my  basic  sin.  At  my  first  little  school, " b"they  were  always  sticking  it  on  reports.  'Does  not  pay  enough  attention.  Grandma  used  to  call  it  woolgathering.  The  consequences-that  you  were  at  [REDACTED]  Yard-came  out  almost  as  soon  as  I  arrived  home.  Then  there  was  the  sense  of  guilt  over  getting  a  lift  with  a  stranger,  which  would  have  given  Mummy  a  seizure.  She  would  have  cried,  probably,  and  said  she  couldn't  trust  me  ever  again.  Anyway,  she  hadn't  wanted  to  know  any  more.  She  was  pleased  with  me,  thatI  had  shown  such  initiative  and  found  my  way  home.  I  had  to  keep  to  my  story-and,  after  all,  I  didn't  tell  any  lies.  I  did  get  a  taxi  in  Oxford  Street  to  Marylebone.&quot;  I  said  I  supposed  he  had  been  puffed  up  with  pride  from  then  on,  having  caused  such  a  to-do,  with  [REDACTED]  Yard  and  police  cars-not  every  boy's  feat,  by  any  means.  &quot;I  was  awed,  more  than  anything,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  in  the  circumstances  I  couldn't  boast  about  it.  I  had  to  keep  it  to  myself,  and  since  I  wasn't  able  to  tell  anyone,  the  glamour  faded.&quot; "