 b"I  HAVE  now  lost  the  right  to  drive  heavy-duty  lorries  in  Formosa,  and  though  the  need  is  not  urgent,  there  is  always  a  feeling  of  regret  when  privileges  fall  away.  I  mention  Formosa  because  there  is  something  precious,  awe-inspiring  even,  about  a  really  far-  flung  authorization,  but  I  might  equal-  ly  well  have  written  &quot;Ghana&quot;  or  &quot;Turkey.&quot;  My  International  Driving  Permit,  issued  to  me  (sinceI  am  Brit-  ish)  by  the  British  Automobile  Associa-  tion,  bears  the  great  seal  of  the  Ministry  of  Transport  and  contains,  in  addition  to  a  villainous  portrait  of  the  holder,  a  list  of  the  &quot;vehicles  for  which  the  per-  mit  is  valid&quot;  in  no  less  than  nine  differ-  ent  languages.   The  breezy  lines  above  give-gave-  me  the  right  to  drive  &quot;motor  vehicles  used  for  the  transport  of  passengers  and  comprising,  in  addition  to  the  driver's  seat,  more  than  eight  seats&quot;  (with  light  trailer  attached,  if  desired).  I  have  this  privilege,  moreover,  in  ninety-odd  coun-  tries,  protectorates,  and  provinces,  and  this  is  one  of  the  reasons  why  I  find  it  so  hard  to  throw  the  permit  away,  time-expired  though  it  is.  A  feeling  of  immense  competence  comes  upon  me  as  I  read  it.  I  seem  to  have  been  trusted  almost  everywhere  with  almost  any-  thing.  &quot;Ladies  and  gentlemen,&quot;  I  hear  myself  saying  as  I  sway  easily  in  the  driver's  seat  of  my  huge  thirty-two-  seater  omnibus,  &quot;we  are  now  about  to  enter  the  Qattara  Depression.  Keep  your  seats,  please,  and  blow  outward,  with  the  nose  grasped  between  the  fore-  finger  and  thumb,  if  any  pain  is  felt  in  the  ears.&quot;  Cool,  relaxed,  fully  author-  ized,  I  ignore  amirage,  dead  ahead,  of  downtown  Sidi  Barrani,  give  the  great  wheel  a  masterful  twitch  to  avoid  the  wreckage  of  an  old  Sherman  tank,  and  drop  into  second  gear.  &quot;Turning  the  head  and  eyes  to  the  left,  ladies  and  gentlemen  ...&quot;  Not  every  country  requires  the  for-  eigner  to  hold  this  permit  before  ven-  turing  to  drive  along  its  highways.  Some  will  put  up  with  one's  national  driving  license;  others,  a  little  oddly,  demand  the  permit  only  if  one  pro-  poses  tohire  a  vehicle  within  their  fron-  tiers.  It  may  be,  so  rapidly  is  the  world  coalescing,  that  I  shall  never  need  such  a  document  again.  But  I  shall  always  be  glad  to  have  had  it.  The  German  for  &quot;driver's  seat&quot;  is  &quot;Fiihrersitz,&quot;'  a  thing  I  might  never" b"have  known  if  I  had  not  scrutinized  the  permit  before  deciding  to  destroy  it-or  deciding  not  to,  as  the  case  may  prove  to  be.  The  pity  of  it  is  that  I  do  not  remember,  during  the  periodof  its  validity,  having  given  the  document  more  than  a  casual  glance,  just  to  make  sure  that  it  covered  the  notvery  far-  flung  country  I  was  about  to  visit.  Only  now,  when  the  gilt  is  off  the  ginger-  bread,  do  I  discover  the  full  extent  of  my  unused  powers-my  right  to  drive  a  motorcycle  combination  in  [REDACTED],  to  roar  through  all  [REDACTED]'s  overseas  provinces  (except  Macao)  in  a  six-  wheeled  truck.  The  permit's  range  is  enormous.  The  [REDACTED]  are  there.  So  are  43756261  and  Surinam  and  the  Holy  See  and  [REDACTED].  In  all  these  strange  lands,I  was  authorized  to  drive  the  most  unwieldy  vehicles  (&quot;wehiculos,&quot;  &quot;eutoveicoli,&quot;  &quot;  mo-  torfordon,&quot;  etc.)  without  let  orhindrance.  In  fact,  the  list  of  Contracting  __  States  on  page  2  appears  to  cover  pretty  well  the  whole  known  world,  with  the  exception  of  Greenland  and  4368696e61  (and,  of  course,  Macao),  Not  all  of  them,  though,  get  their  own  languages  into  the  permit.   That  is  from  the  page  which,  I  should  guess,  is  scrutinized  most  closely  by  policemen  in  Formosa,  and  that  dark  thing  at  the  end,  with  towrope,  must  be  the  light  trailer  one  can  attach  if  desired.  Thus:  -##,.  It  is  odd,  though,  that  the  same  symbol  comes  earlier  in  the  paragraph-eight  char-  acters  up  the  line-which  is  no  place  for  even  the  lightest  trailer.  The  For-  mosans  always  were  an  inscrutable  lot.  How  inscrutable,  too,  I  cannot  help  thinking  asI  turn  the  pages  of  this  now  worthless  permit,  are  the  ways  of  offi-  cialdom.  Ask  for  a  document  authoriz-  ing  you  to  do  this  or  that  particular  thing  and  you  can  never  begin  to  guess  in  advance  what  you  will  get.  Sometimes-as  it  might  be  if  you  wanted  to  export  a  grandfather  clock,  over  a  hundred  years  old,  to  New  [REDACTED]-you  will  get,  with  luck,  the  barest  permission,  and  even  so  may  find  yourself  hemmed  in  with  innu-  merable  cautions,  exclusions,  and  foot-  notes  declaring  that  total  weight  must  not  exceed  two  tons.  And  then  again  you  may  get,  as  with  this  permit,a  hundred  bonuses  and  benefits  you  never  expected  or  dreamed  of  asking  for.  I  wish  to  drive  a  small  sedan  in  4974616c79.  Very  well.  I  know  how  to  drive  small" b"sedans,  up  to  a  point,  and  it  is  reason-  able  that  I  should  be  authorized  to  have  a  go  in  4974616c79,  despite  that  un-Eng-  lish  rule  of  the  road.  I  frankly  ought  not  to  drive  a  six-wheeled  truck  round  the  Holy  See.  It  would  not  be  safe.  There  are  a  great  many  valuable  ob-  jects  in  and  around  the  [REDACTED],  not  counting  cardinals,  that  deserve  some  kind  of  protection.  I  don't  believe,  ei-  ther,  that  I  am  qualified  to  take  a  charabanc  over  the  high  Pamirs.  Yet  it  seems  to  me,  taking  page  2  in  con-  junction  with  pages  5  and  7,  that  I  am  (was)  licensed  to  perform  both  these  crazy  acts.  It  would  hardly  sur-  prise  me  more  if,  on  applying  for  a  visa  to  visit  [REDACTED],  I  were  to  find  my-  self  empowered  to  issue  executive  com-  mands  to  the  Brazilian  Navy.  It  is  true  that  there  are  certain  spaces  in  the  permit  headed  &quot;Exclusions,&quot;  &quot;Esclusioni,&quot;  &quot;Ausschliisse,&quot;  &quot;Indrag-  ningar,&quot;  and  so  on,  in  which  the  Turks,  had  I  set  foot  or  wheel  in  their  coun-  try,  might  perhaps  have  scribbled  a  curt  &quot;Not  authorized  to  drive  loads  ex-  ceeding  3,500  kg  through  Istanbul.&quot;  The  fact  remains  that  I  did  enter  4974616c79,  and  there  is  nota  hintof  an  embargo  in  my  permit  from  the  Pope  or  anyone  else.  Carte  blanche  is  what  they  were  prepared  to  let  me  drive.  ELL,  itis  all  over  now.  The  permit  has  expired,  and  I  dare-  say  I  shall  find,  if  I  ever  apply  for  an-  other,  that  the  authorities  have  clamped  down,  that  the  old  unfettered  days  of  free  enterprise  in  Sierra  Leone  are  over.  Page  after  page  of  Exclusions  will  anger  and  insult  me.  Coaches  with  more  than  eight  seats,  in  addition  to  the  Fiihrersitz,  will  turn  out  to  be  banned  in  the  Seychelles.  &quot;Persons,&quot;  I  shall  read  in  blunt  Arabic,  &quot;desiring  to  tow  trailers  through  [REDACTED]  must  obtain  a  Certificate  of  Competence  from  the  Chief  of  Police,  the  Board  of  Trade,  and  the  Bureau  of  Hygiene.&quot;  Official-  dom  is  forever  nibbling  away  at  one's  liberties.  So  I  shall  not  destroy  my  old  permit.  It  will  be  a  precious  reminder  of  the  old  days,  when  the  wholeworld  (except  Macao)  was  an  open  road.  But  then  again,  actually,  it  won't.  My  journey  through  this  multilingual  relic  has  brought  me  finally  to  the  in-  side  back  cover,  where  I  belatedly  ob-  serve  five  circles  lettered  &quot;A&quot;  to  &quot;E&quot;  and  inscribed  &quot;Sceaow  ou  cachet  de  Pautorit\xc3\xa9e.&quot;  These  lettered  rings  appear  to  have  some  reference  to  different  classes  or  categories  of  vehicle,  and  only  &quot;B&quot;  has  been  obliterated  by  an  unseemly  smudge  that  could  well  be  the  stamp  of  the  Automobile  Associa-" b"tion.  The  other  four  are  virgin,  sceeu-  less,  uncaecheted.  Can  this  mean  that  the  [REDACTED],  at  the  eleventh  hour,  officiously  confined  my  powers  to  B;  viz.,  the  con-  trol  of  &quot;motor  vehicles  used  for  the  transport  of  passengers  and  comprising,  in  addition  to  the  driver's  seat,  at  most  eight  seats,  or  those  used  for  the  trans-  port  of  goods  and  having  a  permissible  maximum  weight  not  exceeding  3,500  kg  (7,700  1b).  Vehicles  in  this  cate-  gory  may  be  coupled  with  a  light  trail-  er&quot;?  To  hell  with  the  light  trailer.  I  have  been  living,  however  momentarily,  in  a  fool's  paradise,  a  dream  within  a  dream.  Not  in  imagination  even  had  I  the  right  to  whisk  that  chattering  coachload  of  trippers  down  and  ever  down  between  the  sweltering  walls  of  the  Qattara  Depression.  I  never  was  empowered  to  motorcycle  in  Cam-  bodia,  to  scatter  a  bunch  of  cardinals  with  anything  more  menacing  than  three  and  a  quarter  tons  of  mobile  goods.  I  shall  destroy  my  permit. "