 CIAO  FABRIZIO  HE  fishing  village  that  I'll  call  Matrani  is  on  the  Italian  coast  near  Amalfi.  Irecently  visited  a  friend  who  lives  there,  and  found  it  a  quiet  place  most  ofthe  week,  be-  cause  that  was  off  season,.  Weekends  it  was  lively.  Families  from  Naples,  who  owned  villas  on  the  nearby  slopes,  poured  into  the  village  with  their  guests  and  their  cars,  creating  an  air  of  carni-  val-the  air,  my  friend  told  me,  that  characterized  the  place  during  the  months  of  July  and  August.  During  those  months,  not  only  did  the  Nea-  politans  occupy  their  villas  continuously  but  vacationers,  both  Italian  and  for-  eign,  crowded  the  hotels  and  beaches,  and  Matrani  briefly  became  a  second  Capri.  As  it  was,  during  the  several  weeks  of  my  visit  the  dining  terrace  of  Matrani's  best  restaurant,  La  Torre  dei  Saraceni,  was  an  amusing  spot  on  Fri-  day  and  Saturday  nights.  Tables  were  reserved,  and  at  about  nine  o'clock  the  Neapolitans  began  to  arrive-a  hand-  some,  decorative  set.  The  ladies,  elab-  orately  hairdressed  and  bejewelled,  wore  evening  gowns  that  were  usually  very  bright  and  cut  low,  and  they  car-  ried  all  kinds  of  scarves  and  stoles,  from  chiffon  to  mink,  against  the  Mediter-  ranean  night  breeze.  The  men  favored  sport  shirts,  foulards,  and  cashmere  sweaters,  above  immaculate  pastel-col-  ored  slacks.  Everybody  seemed  to  know  everybody.  Tables  were  often  placed  end  to  end  in  advance  and  decorated  with  garlands  of  rambler  roses  and  bougainvillaea  to  await  the  arrival  ofa  large  party  coming  from  a  &quot;cocktail&quot;  in  one  or  another  ofthe  villas;  or  two  or  more  tables  would  be  pushed  to-  gether  impromptu  as  groups,  arriving  separately,  coalesced  with  shrill  cries  of  surprise.  I  seldom  heard  an  introduc-  tion  performed.  Once  in  a  while,  an  Ingegnere  So-and-So  and  his  wife-  who  usually  seemed  to  come  from  4974616c79-would  be  presented  by  their  hostess  to  her  fellow  Marchese  and  Contesse  and  to  the  assorted  gentle-  men,  but  in  general  the  people  who  came  to  the  terrace  were  like  an  enor-  mous  lot  of  cousins  transplanted  in  a  body  from  adjoining  Neapolitan  town  houses  to  similarly  adjacent  villas  on  a  single  enclosed  estate.  One  Friday  night  at  the  Torre  dei  Saraceni,  my  friend  and  I  found  our-  selves  seated  close  to  a  particularly  long  row  of  tables  set  for  at  least  twenty  per-  sons  and  strewn  not  with  the  usual  gar-  den  flowers  but  with  dozens  of  long-  stemmed  roses,  all  of  the  same  beautiful       variety  often  seen  around  Naples-  creamy  yellow  petals  edged  with  crim-  son.  &quot;Uno  sposalizio  napoletano&quot;  -a  Neapolitan  wedding-our  waiter  told  us,  and  we  looked  forward  to  seeing  some  of  the  usual  weekend  habitués  gathered  together  to  celebrate  this  fur-  ther  solidifying  of  their  clan.  But  when  the  wedding  company  arrived,  quite  late,  after  all  other  tables  were  occupied,  they  were  people  we  had  never  seen  be-  fore  except  for  one,  known  to  my  friend  as  the  mayor  of  Matrani.  More  formal-  ly  dressed-the  men  in  dark  city  suits,  and  some  of  the  older  ladies  even  wear-  ing  hats-they  had  the  same  air  of  high  fashion  as  the  rest,  and,  indeed,  during  the  flurry  of  seating  quite  a  number  of  people  came  over  from  other  tables  to  shake  the  hands  of  the  happy  pair  and  of  the  two  older  couples  who  were  obviously  their  parents.  'The  visitors  would  murmur  congratulations-we  were  struck  by  a  marked  softening  of  their  Neapolitan  voices,  during  these  moments,  as  contrasted  with  the  rather  strident  gaiety  they  displayed  among  themselves-and  would  then  return  to  their  own  tables.  Clearly,  the  members  of  this  wedding  party  were  per  bene-  known  and  accepted  by  the  titled  crowd  from  the  villas-but  also  they  seemed  to  be  in  a  curious  isolation,self-sufficient  and  self-enclosed.  Not  that  there  wasn't  some  gaiety  at  the  wedding  table.  The  bride's  eyes  were  red,  and  her  mother's  eyes,  too-  one  expectsa  few  red  eyes  at  a  wed-  ding-but  a  half-dozen  or  so  adorable  small  children,  who,  we  guessed,  must  have  been  flower  girls  and  pages  at  the  ceremony,  kept  jumping  down  from  their  chairs  and  moving  happily  about  the  table,  getting  in  the  way  of  the  waiters  and  receiving  not  scoldings  but  kisses  from  their  elders.  And  among  the  guests  seated  farthest  from  the  imme-  diate  bridal  party  there  was  plenty  of  smiling,  gesturing,  and  calling  back  and  forth.  However,  the  bride  was  certainly  overwrought.  She  was  a  beautiful  ash-  blond  girl,  tall,  with  a  splendid  carriage  and  a  classic  profile,  wearing  a  low-  cut  café-au-lait-colored  taffeta  gown.  From  time  to  time,  she  would  dab  at  her  eyes  with  her  handkerchief,  and  at  one  point  she  laid  her  head  on  the  shoulder  of  her  father,  next  to  whom  she  sat,  and  held  her  handkerchief  to  her  eyes  as  he  caressed  her  and  murmured  into  her  ear.  The  groom  seemed  to  pay  no  attention  to  this.  He  was  a  small,  mean-  looking  fellow,  lacking  even  the  kind  of  distinction  that  his  tailor  had  given  his  suit,  the  jacket  of  which  was  startlingly  wasp-waisted  and  slashed  with  exagger- ated  side  vents.  The  widespread  white  points  of  his  shirt  collar  emphasized  the  pinched,  almost  scrawny  quality  of  his  features  and  the  lumpiness  of  his  Adam's  apple.  He  was  young,  but  there  was  nothing  about  him  that  seemed  so;  he  was  like  an  ageless  little  clerk.  He  kept  up  a  grave,  unsmiling  conversation  with  his  parents-the  three  of  them  formed  a  unit  within  a  unit-and  he  seemed  to  have  a  connection  with  his  beautiful  bride  only  when  they  stood  up  together  to  receive  someone's  congratu-  lations.  At  one  point,  the  bride's  mother  rose  abruptly  and  beckoned  to  two  young  women  of  the  party,  who  were  perhaps  the  bridesmaids.  They  went  to  the  bride,  who  rose  also,  and  the  four  of  them  left  the  terrace  in  a  cluster.  As  they  passed  us,  the  bride  kept  her  face  averted,  but  we  could  hear  her  sob,  and  when  they  returned,  after  what  must  have  been  consolation  and  repair  in  the  ladies'  room,  her  eyes  and  her  mother's  were  still  red.  The  bridegroom  still  seemed  unconcerned.  Nor  did  any  of  the  Neapolitans  at  the  other  tables  react  to  this  evident  distress.  We  wondered  whether  good  manners  made  them  pretend  to  be  unaware,  or  whether  to  them  everything  seemed  normal.  Meanwhile,  on  the  harborside  prom-  enade  just  under  the  restaurant  ter-  race  where  we  were  sitting,  a  crowd  had  been  gathering-a  larger  crowd  than  the  one  on  most  pleasant  weekend  nights,  when  the  Matranesi  and  paeseni  from  neighboring  villages  thronged  the  pavement  along  the  little  fishing  port  until  midnight.  There  was  an  air  of  expectancy,  and,  indeed,  our  waiter  most  exceptionally  brought  us  our  bill  before  we  asked  for  it  and  urged  us  not  to  lose  any  time.  &quot;Signori,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;the  fire-  works  will  begin  verysoon  now,  and  you'll  want  to  find  a  good  place.  The  best  view  will  be  from  the  other  side  of  the  harbor,  and  it  will  take  you  a  little  time  to  push  through  the  crowd.&quot;  He  pointed  to  the  beach,  and,  through  the  darkness,  we  saw  that  some  sort  of  framework  had  been  erected  and  that  dim  figures  were  putting  finishing  touches  to  what  looked  like  improvised  rocket-launching  pads.  After  lingering  less  long  than  usual  over  our  coffee,  we  paid  and  left.  The  wed-  ding  party  was  drinking  champagne.  There  were  raised  glasses  and  ex-  changes  of  greetings,  but  no  speeches  or  toasts.  The  ladies  were  primping  and  fussing  with  their  handbags;  the  dinner  was  ending.  HE  quayside  on  the  far  side  of  the  harbor  was  crowded  when  we  got  there,  everyone  much  interested  in  the  half-dozen  smartly  varnished  motor     launches  that  were  floating  elegantly  at  the  foot  of  the  water  steps  leading  down  from  the  mole.  Their  boatmen,  in  caps  and  striped  jerseys,  were  wait-  ing  at  the  wheels,  and  three  orfour  local  fishermen  were  on  duty  at  the  ropes.  People  in  the  crowd  were  tell-  ing  each  other  that  the  craft  had  been  hired  in  Amalfi-there  was  nothing  to  compare  with  them  for  rent  in  poor  Matrani.  From  here,  the  fireworks  in-  stallation  on  the  beach  could  be  seen  more  clearly;  the  tilted  rocket  plat-  forms,  and  the  larger  contraption  that  .{  looked  like  the  skeleton  for  a  big  road-  side  billboard.  Then  came  the  wedding  party,  a  pro-  cession  more  or  less  in  irregular  double  file,  advancing  along  the  waterfront  from  the  Torre  dei  Saraceni.  The  bride  |  now  carried  a  pale  mink  stole.  The  mayor  of  Matrani  was  walking  ahead  of  her,  motioning  importantly  to  the  spectators  to  make  way,  and  back  and  forth  along  the  line  of  march  strode  the  two  local  carabinieri,  occasionally  stretching  out  their  arms  as  symbolic  fences.  With  a  series  of  roars,  the  motors  of  the  hired  launches  sprang  to  life,  a  fisherman  held  the  first  one  close  to  the  quay  with  a  boat  hook,  and  after  a  little  flurry  over  precedence  the  wed-  ding  party  began  to  embark.  As  each  boat  filled,  it  drew  away  and  waited  a  dozen  yards  offshore,  and  when  the  last  boatload  took  off,  all  the  motors  roared  in  unison,  and  the  entire  flotilla  took  off  into  the  night.  The  crowd,  which  had  been  murmuring  in  admira-  tion  of  the  fine  gowns  and  lovely  wom-  en  and  general  elegance  of  the  party,  now  burst  into  cheers  and  shouts:  &quot;Buon  viaggio!&quot;  &quot;Auguri!&quot;  &quot;Addio!&quot;  &quot;Ciao!&quot;  Where  was  the  party  off  to,  in  its  hired  craft?  Were  they  all  returning  by  water  to  Naples?  Would  they  split  up,  the  bride  and  groom  going  perhaps  to  honeymoon  on  Capri,  only  a  few  miles  away?  But  the  bride  and  groom  had  not  stepped  alone  into  their  launch;  their  two  sets  of  parents  had  embarked  with  them.  Maybe  they  were  all  just  going  to  Amalfi,  where  the  boats  had  come  from,  and  where  hired  limousines  or  their  own  cars  would  take  them  to  dif-  ferent  destinations.  Considering  what  my  friend  and  I  learned  later  about  this  wedding  party,  there  must  havebeen  plenty  of  people  in  the  crowd  there  on  the  quay  who  knew  its  destination  and  all  the  facts  concerning  it.  But  in  Matrani  gossip  and  speculation  are  in-  finitely  more  fun  than  accurate  state-  ment,  and  all  we  heard  around  us  was  questions  and  various  guesses.  Every-  body  did  know  one  thing:  as  soon  as  the    boats  were  far  enough  offshore  to  get  the  full  effect,  the  fireworks  would  be-  gin.  And  scarcely  had  the  last  chug  of  a  motor  died  away  when  the  first  illu-  mination  burst  out.  It  was  the  big  frame-  work,  the  set  piece,  and  after  some  preliminary  spluttering  and  fizzing  it  revealed  itself  as  truly  a  great,  glowing  signboard.  In  two  lines  of  glittering  live  letters  it  proclaimed  its  message:  CIAO  ADRIANA  CIAO  FABRIZIO  &quot;Com  &amp;  bello!&quot;  &quot;Bellissimo!&quot;  &quot;O!&quot;  &quot;Guarda!&quot;  the  exclamations  sprang  from  the  delighted  crowd.  And  then  the  rockets  began.  Roman  candles,  sprays,  baskets  of  flowers-the  whole  gamut  of  a  fireworks  display  flung  itself  into  the  darkness  and  out  over  the  Mediterranean.  Explosions,  rumbles,  and  swishes  vied  with  human  shrieks.  The  air  filled  with  sulphur,  and  we  saw  isolated  balls  of  incandescence  swerve  from  their  course  and  strike  the  hillsides  that  half  enclosed  the  port  and-for  we  had  been  having  a  drought  in  Matrani-  setting  fire  to  plots  of  grass  and,  for  all  we  knew,  to  houses,  or  to  pieces  ofthe  laundry  that  is  perpetually  hanging  on  clotheslines  on  Matrani  terraces.  On  and  on  went  the  display,  and  on  the  upper  slopes  patches  of  flame  kept  appearing,  only  to  be  doused  by  watchful  householders,  who,  being  true  Matranesi,  probably  dld  not  mind  a  lit-  tle  charring  in  return  for  the  fun.  Long  before  the  show  was  over,  my  friend  and  I  climbed  up  the  steep  streets  to  his  house.  From  his  balcony,  we  saw  it  end  at  last  in  a  tremendous  aerial  bouquet  of  assorted  colors  and  numerous  booms,  and,  down  on  the  beach-well  timed  to  end  with  the  rest-the  gradual  fading  out  of  CIAO  ADRIANA  CIAO  FABRIZIO  TOWARD  noon  the  next  day,  Maria,  my  friend's  cook,  arrived  as  usual  W1th  a  full  market  basket  ready  to  make  lunch.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;&quot;this  has  been  an  unusual  morning.  I've  done  something  I  don't  do  every  day.  I've  been  to  a  wedding.&quot;  &quot;You  have?&quot;  my  friend  said.  &quot;We  almost  went  to  one  last  night.  At  least,  we  saw  the  end  of  one,  and  you  must  have,  too.  How  did  you  like  the  fire-  works?&quot;  Maria  stared  at  us.  &quot;You  say  you  saw  the  end  of  a  wedding  last  night?&quot;  she  said  slowly.  We  were  all  talking  Italian,  but  for  a  moment  she  acted  as  though  my  friend's  words  had  been  ut-  tered  in  some  strange  tongue  that  she      had  to  take  time  to  translate.  &quot;What  did  you  see?&quot;  We  told  her  about  the  sposalizto  din-  ner  at  the  Torre  dei  Saraceni,  and  the  departure  of  the  party.  &quot;You  must  have  been  watching  at  least  the  rest  of  it  from  somewhere  yourself,&quot;  my  friend  said.  &quot;Certainly  you  saw  thebig  illuminated  sign  wishing  luck  to  the  bride  and  groom?&quot;  Maria  shook  her  head.  She  began  a  movement  of  her  right  hand  that  looked  suspiciously  like  the  start  of  a  sign  of  the  Cross,  then  stopped  it,  probably  out  of  courtesy.  &quot;You  Americans  have  the  strangest  ideas  about  things,&quot;  she  said,  gravely.  &quot;No  wonder  we  sometimes  ask  ourselves  whether  you  are  cristiani.  You  obviously  understood  nothing  about  what  took  place  last  night.  Nothing.  For  one  thing,  who  ever  heard  of  an  evening  banquet  following  a  Christian  wedding?  The  real  wedding  banquet  of  those  people  you  saw  last  night  is  about  to  take  place  now-now,  at  any  moment,  at  the  Torre  dei  Saraceni.  And  besides-&quot;  &quot;But  the  waiter  told  us  it  was  a  sposalizi0,&quot;  my  friend  said.  &quot;And  there  was  that  sign-&quot;  &quot;Momento,&quot;  said  Maria.  &quot;Prego.&quot;  She  held  up  her  hand.  If  Maria  is  a  privileged  character  in  my  friend's  house,  it  is  because  she  is  an  extraordinary  one.  A  native  of  Matrani,  untravelled  beyond  Naples  except  for  one  great  weekend  excursion  with  a  group  of  pilgrims  to  St.  Peter's  in  Rome,  where  she  saw  the  Pope,  and  only  fairly  literate,  she  nonetheless  possesses  an  un-  usual  ability  to  see  events  in  larger  con-  texts.  It  was  a  larger  context  that  she  proceeded  to  sketch  for  us  now,  after  characteristically  asking  our  permission  to  do  so:  &quot;Permettono,  Signori,  che  racconti  loro  una  storia?&quot;  &quot;Dica,&quot;  said  my  friend.  And  Maria  began.  &quot;A  few  years  ago  in  Naples,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;when  they  were  widening  a  street,  they  came  on  a  big  un-  derground  cemetery&quot;-&quot;una  catacom-  ba,&quot;  she  called  it,  &quot;wn  ossario  piuttosto,  molto  antico'&quot;'-&quot;that  nobody  knew  was  there.  It  was  full  of  skulls  and  bones,  all  neatly  arranged  on  shelves  cut  out  of  the  rock.  The  engineers  were  going  to  clear  it  out,  do  away  with  it,  but  the  people  of  the  neighborhood  were  furious,  and  staged  a  real  war.  It  was  their  cemetery,  they  said,  even  if  they'd  never  known  anything  about  it,  and  they  wanted  to  keep  it.  They  just  invaded  the  place  and  refused  to  budge.  The  women  were  especially  fierce,  but  plenty  of  men  joined  in,  and  they  defended  their  cemetery  like  a  fortress,  and  wouldn't  let  the  work-   men  touch  a  thing.  They  won,  too.  The  engineers  gave  in.  They  begged  to  be  allowed  to  straighten  the  place  a  little,  saying  it  really  wasn't  sanitary,  but  the  citizens  said  we'll  do  it  our-  selves,  thank  you,  just  leave  us  alone.  So  the  engineers  built  a  nice  entrance  and  a  door-you  can  see  it  any  time;  it  looks  like  one  of  the  entrances  to  the  Naples  subway,  the  Metropolitana,  only  smaller-and  the  neighborhood  people  did  do  a  wonderful  job  of  making  the  place  neat,  rearranging  bones  that  had  fallen  down  over  the  centuries,  and  sweeping  out  the  corridors.  &quot;And  they  set  up  a  kind  of  lottery  in  the  neighborhood,  and,  according  to  the  number  you  picked,  you  could  choose  your  skull.  They  were  most  in-  terested  in  the  skulls,  of  course,  they  being  more  human  than  the  rest  of  the  bones.  Each  person,  you  might  say,  adopted  the  skull  he  or  she  chose,  and  sometimes  gave  it  a  name,  and  some  people  put  glass  bells  over  their  skulls  with  labels  on  them  to  keep  them  private  and  free  from  dust.  The  people  go  down  there  and  talk  to  them,  and  say  their  prayers  in  front  of  them.  It's  a  real  curiosity,  that  cemetery-one  of  the  sights  of  Naples.  &quot;I  went  to  see  it  once.  One  of  my  cousins  told  me  I  shouldn't  miss  it.  And  the  first  thing  I  saw,  that  morning  down  there,  was  a  woman  of  the  neigh-  borhood  kneeling  on  a  little  cushion  she'd  brought  with  her,  talking  to  her  skull.  The  glass  bell  that  had  been  over  it  was  all  moist  on  the  inside,  and  the  woman  had  taken  it  off  and  was  drying  it  with  her  handkerchief.  'Poor  little  thing,&quot;  she  was  saying  to  the  skull,  'how  you  did  sweat  during  the  night!  We  must  think  of  some  way  to  keep  you  dry.  The  night  sweat  is  unhealthy,  my  darling,  but  never  fear,  your  Concetta  will  take  care  of  you.  Have  faith  in  your  Concetta.&quot;  And  then  she  began  to  say  an  Ave  Maria.  Up  and  down  the  corridors  were  other  women,  and  men,  too,  kneeling  on  cushions  in  front  of  their  skulls  and  murmuring  to  them.  I  said  to  my  cousin,  'These  skulls  are  so  ancient-aren't  they  the  skulls  of  pagan?&quot;  And  my  cousin  said,  'Pagani  or  cristiani,  what's  the  difference?  They're  all  mort,  and  the  mort:  all  deserve  our  prayers  and  love,  because  they  were  once  just  like  us.&quot;  &quot;  Maria  looked  at  us.  It  was  clear  from  her  look  that  she  had  made  a  point-  one  that  we  should  have  got,  or  begun  to  get.  But  she  is  a  kindly  soul,  and,  quickly  deciding,  apparently,  that  clear  though  her  point  was  to  her,  we  might  be  forgiven  for  still  remaining  in  the  dark,  she  went  on  almost  at  once.  &quot;Nea-  politans  do  more  than  just  respect  the  dead,  Signori,&quot;'  she  said.  &quot;They  love  them,  and  they  have  many  ways  of  inviting  them  to  go  on  living  with  them.  That  cemetery  my  cousin  took  me  to  is  just  one  example.  There  was  another  example  in  that  dinner  and  fireworks  last  night,  and  in  the  wedding  this  morning.  Did  you  really  think  that  the  name  Fabrizio  on  the  fireworks  sign  was  the  name  of  the  bridegroom?&quot;  She  stopped  to  enjoy  our  astonish-  ment.  &quot;Didn't  you  see  how  insignificant  that  little  bridegroom  was?&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;He's  a  berone,  but  that  doesn't  mean  much  in  Naples.  Don'tyou  know  the  story  of  how  one  of  the  old  kings  of  Naples  created  a  hundred  or  so  berow  at  one  sweep,  without  meaning  to?  Some  tradesmen  called  on  him  in  a  body,  at  the  crack  of  dawn  one  morn-  ing,  with  a  petition,  and  they  made  so  much  noise  in  the  anteroom  that  they  woke  him  up.  He  came  out,  rubbing  his  eyes.  'Good  morning,  berom,'  he  said  sarcastically.  'Thanks  for  putting  me  at  thetop  of  your  list  of  things  to  do  today.'  'That  was  enough  for  them.  They  forgot  their  petition,  and  every  one  of  them  and  their  descendants  called  himself  berone  ever  after.  I  think  the  little  berone  bridegroom  must  be  that  kind  of  a  nobleman.  &quot;No,  most  titles  are  worth  only  one  thing  to  a  man  in  Naples-a  little  mon-  ey  if  somebody  wants  to  buy  you  for  his  daughter.  That's  the  case  in  the  pres-  ent  instance.  The  bride's  family  is  very  rich.  During  the  war,  they  left  Naples  to  escape  the  bombing,  and  came  to  Matrani.  There  were  four  of  them  then.  The  bride  was  a  little  girl,  of  course,  and  she  had  a  brother  a  few  years  older,  named  Fabrizio.  He  was  killed,  here  in  Matrani,  when  an  Army  truck  ran  over  him.  He  was  buried  in  the  cemetery  here.  Later,  the  rest  re-  turned  to  Naples,  but  they  come  every  year  to  visit  his  grave,  and,  being  Nea-  politans,  they  naturally  wanted  him  to  participate  in  his  sister's  wedding.  So  they  came  to  Matrani  to  celebrate  it.  They  have  no  villa  here,  so  they  hired  a  lot  of  hotel  rooms  for  themselves  and  their  guests,  and  last  night  they  had  the  pre-wedding  dinner  and  the  fireworks  that  included  Fabrizio.  Naturally,  the  bride  was  upset,  thinking  of  her  brother  all  the  time.  She  adored  him  when  she  was  a  little  girl.&quot;  &quot;Where  did  they  go  off  to  in  the  boats?&quot;  my  friend  asked.  &quot;Only  offshore,  toward  Capri,  to  look  back  and  see  the  fireworks,&quot;  said  Maria.  &quot;They  returned  to  port  after  the  display  was  over,  and  spent  the  night  in  their  various  hotels.  By  the  way,  the  bride's  father  is  going  to  have  at  least  one  lawsuit  on  his  hands,  or  anyway  a  settlement.  Donna  Teresa,  up  on  the  north  cliff,  wasn't  home  last  night,  and  when  she  got  back  this  morning  she  found  a  patch  of  her  vineyard  burned  to  cinders  by  a  rocket.  Donna  Teresa  loves  her  grapes,  and  she'll  expect  to  be  paid  for  them.  But  I  imagine  that  rich  papa  counted  on  running  into  some  such  extra  expenses.&quot;  That  seemed  to  be  the  story.  But  Maria  had  one  more  detail  to  add.  &quot;The  wedding  in  the  church  down  below  was  beautiful  this  morning,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Lots  of  flowers,  and  everybody  so  dressed  up.  Naturally,  the  bride  was  crying.  Espe-  cially  as  they  came  out  of  the  church.  Her  father  had  hired  a  couple  of  men  to  stand  outside  the  church  door  holding  some  balloons  he'd  had  made,  and  as  the  bride  and  groom  came  out  the  men  released  the  balloons.  There  were  dozens  of  them,  and  the  wind  blew  them  all  over  the  place,  and  lots  of  peo-  ple  grabbed  them  as  souvenirs.  Still,  a  great  many  of  them  flew  straight  up  to  Heaven,  where  they  were  meant  to  go.  Because  the  bride's  father  had  had  something  printed  on  the  balloons.  A  message.  Can  you  guess  what  it  was?&quot;  We  got  it  of  course,  and  Maria  nodded.  &quot;Yes-'Cizo  Fabrizio,  &quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  guess  they  didn't  want  to  take  a  chance  that  he  hadn't  seen  the  fire-  works  from  so  far  away.&quot; 