 b"ANNOUNCER  (blezered,  crew-  A  cut,  carphoned):  Good  after-  noon,  sports  fans,  and  welcome  to  another  thrilling  presentation  of  the  &quot;Sunday  Sports  Shebang&quot;!  I'm  Spike  Ammidown,  your  host  at  this  roundup  of  great  sportsmanship,  great  athletes,  and  stirring  highlights  of  sports  events  from  around  this  great  globe  of  ours!  Here  in  the  next  five  hours,  you're  gonna  see,  all  live,  and  on  tape,  too,  the  ecstasy  of  victory  and  the  heartache  of  defeat,  in  great  climactic  scenes  of  a  full  dozen  major  athletic  events  from  the  four  corners  of  the  earth,  brought  into  your  living  room  by  our  expert  reporters  and  camera  teams,  whom  you  can  be  sure  are  standing  by  at  this  very  minute!  Right  now,  I'm  standing  here,  live,  on  the  eighteenth  fairway  of  the  Pawtucket  Drive-In  Golf-A-  Way,  where  you  will  see  this  afternoon  the  final  holes  ofthe  great  $250,000  Eastern  Open  Miniature  Golf  Cham-  pionship.  We'll  be  bringing  those  dra-  matic  holes  your  way  in  just  a  few  moments,  but  right  now  I  have  a  signal  from  Red  Glebman,  who  is  waiting  in  a  front-row  seat  in  the  broadcasting  booth  at  Busch  Stadium,  in  St.  Louis,  to  bring  you  thrilling  action  from  the  final  game  of  the  World  Series.  So  come  in,  Red!  Rep  GirsmaAn  :  Thanks,  Spike,  and  good  afternoon,  ball  fans!  Here,  brought  to  you  live  from  the  home  of  the  battlin'  Cardinals,  we're  in  the  top  of  the  ninth  inning  of  the  seventh  and  final  game  of  the  great  fall  classic.  The  score  is  tied,  1-1,  and,  as  you  can  see  on  our  &quot;Sunday  Sports  Shebang&quot;  cam-  eras,  the  Yanks  have  loaded  the  bases!    Two  out!  Three  on!  The  count  has  gone  to  three  and  two  on  Joe  Pepitone.  All  three  runners  will  be  off  with  the  pitch.  Bob  Gibson,  the  Redbirds'  ace  fireballer,  has  gone  all  the  way,  but  right  now  he  looks  mighty  bushed  out  there.  Just  listen  to  this  crowd!  Now  he's  got  the  sign.  He's  taking  his  stretch!  The  runners  lead  away  SpiE  AmmIDown  (back  at  the  Golf-A-W  ay):  Thanks,  Red.  And  thanks  for  that  magnificent  moment  from  the  great  world  of  the  national  pastime.  We'll  be  getting  back  to  you  real  soon.  Meantime,  I  have  word  that  Jim  Croddy  is  standing  by  at  the  finals  of  the  World  Championship  Garage  Attendants'  Parking  Rodeo,  out  in  [REDACTED],  where  he'll  be  bringing  you  all  that  thrilling  action  Zive,  so  come  on  in,  Jim!  Jim  Croppy:Thanks  a  million,  Spike,  and  good  afternoon,  parking  fans!  I'm  here  at  the  foot  of  lower-  ramp  straightaway  of  the  Acme  Min-  ute-Park  Garage,  in  the  heart  of  down-  town  [REDACTED],  where  today  we'll  see  the  final  events  of  this  thrilling  Parking  Rodeo,  including  the  $50,000  Top-  Floor-to-Street-Level  Compact  Car  Delivery  Sprints,  in  which  the  nine  finalists,  from  a  Le  Mans  start,  will  vie  for  control  of  this  single  steep  ramp!  Here  beside  me,  live,  at  this  moment  is  Luther  (Ace)  Purdy,  the  defending  champion  in  this  event,  who  is  currently  in  third  place  in  the  over-all  standings  with  1.49  points.  Ace,  you  dropped  back  to  third  yesterday  when  the  judges  gave  you  only  24.41  points  on  Style  at  the  conclusion  of  your  great  run  in  the  Unlimited  Class  Curved-  Ramp  Backup.  How  do  you  feel  about  that?  AcE  Purpy:  Well,  Jim,  I'm  glad  you  ast  me  that,  because  I  sure  got  a  raw  deal.  I  mean,  I  don't  want  to  fault  these  great  judges  or  nothin',  but  when  that  fender  fell  offn  the  Jag  at  the  top  of  the  ramp,  I  didn't  have  nothin'  to  do  with  it  a-tall.  I  mean,  when  I  jumped  into  that  Jag  I  seen  thatthat  fender  was  just  held  on  there  with  a  little  piece  of  old  baling  wire  or  something.  One  of  these  crazy  rookies  musta  whanged  it  off  in  one  of  the  qualifyin'  runs.  I'm  appealing  those  Style  points  to  the  International  Federation.  Just  see  if  I  don't!  Jim  Croppoy:  Good  for  you,  Ace!  And  thanks  for  those  fighting  senti-  ments  from  agreat  sporting  gentleman!  Spr  Ammimown  (breaking  in  again):  Thanks,  Jim,  for  thatexciting  on-the-spot  interview.  We  havean  urgent  signal  from  Red  Glebman  at  Busch  Stadium,  which  means  that     " b"things  must  be  popping  at  that  final  Series  game!  We'll  get  back  to  Red  in  just  a  minute,  at  the  conclusion  of  this  important  message  from  our  sponsor.  SPIKE  AMMIDOwWN:  Well,  here  we  are  again,  fans,  with  more  of  your  &quot;Sunday  Sports  Shebang&quot;!  Before  we  get  back  to  Red  Glebman,  who  seems  to  have  some  mighty  hot  news  for  us-  T  ake  it  easy  there,  Red,  boy!  -we  want  to  jump  down  to  Tex  Gutt-  weiler,  who  is  standing  by,  live,  at  the  finals  of  the  Pan-  handle  Senior  Mixed  Doubles  Tennis  Championships,  at  the  Broomstraw  Country  Club,  in  Amarillo.  It's  all  yours,  Tex!  Tex  GurrwEmEr  (whis-  pering):  Thanks,  Spike,  and  good  afternoon,  mixed-  doubles  fans!  This  is  great  timing,  because  at  this  mo-  ment  the  finals  stand  here  at  match  point!  Mrs.  Eloise  MacKittrup  and  her  partner,  Bob  Spurge,  are  trailing  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Billy-Joe  Jenkins,  1-6,  0-5,  in  this  second  set.  It's  love-40  and  Mrs.  Mac-  Kittrup  is  serving.  Right  now,  things  look  mighty  black  for  the  MacKittrup-  Spurge  duo,  but  as  everyone  down  here  in  the  Panhandle  knows,  they're  all  heart,  and  I  wouldn't  be  surprised  if  we  were  about  to  see  the  be-  ginning  of  a  great  fighting  comeback.  Mrs.  MacKittrup  is  gritting  her  teeth.  She  toes  the  line-here's  the  serve!  Oop-she  hit  it  into  the  net!  It's  a  fault.  Here's  the  old  second  serve.  Uh-oh-it's  out!  It's  a  good  eight  feet  out,  and  this  match  is  over!  And  there  you  have  it,  folks,  live  from  Amarillo-the  Double  Fault  of  the  Week!  Back  to  you,  Spike,  fella.  SpicE  AmmIpown:  Wow,  Tex!  Thanks  for  that  great  on-the-spot  cov-  erage.  Now,  before  we  go  to  Red  Gleb-  man  at  the  World  Series-Relax,  Red,  for  crying  out  loud!  It's  just  a  game-  we  want  to  bring  you  a  fascinating  fea-  ture  story  that  I  taped  in  person  last  week  at  the  village  of  Izquirra,  high  in  the  Basque  country  of  northern  537061696e,  as  an  exclusive  for  the  &quot;Sunday  Sports  Shebang.&quot;  So,  without  more  ado,  we'll  roll  that  for  you.  Over  to  me,  in  Izquirra!  .  ..  Good  afternoon,  folks!  It's  I,  Spike  Ammidown,  here  in  the  main  street  of  Izquirra,  a  mighty  long  way  from  Pawtucket,  from  where  I'll  be  showing  you  this  from  next  Sunday.  Such  is  the  wonder  of  our  shrinking,  sports-loving  globe!  Today  I'm  going  to  bring  you,  exclusive  and  for  the  first  time  on  any  network,  the  annual  championship  game  of  Qub,  the  na-  tional  Basque  sport  that  is  played  only  here  in  Izquirra.  As  you  can  see,  I  am  surrounded  by  the  villagers,  who  are  garbing  themselves  with  their  inter-  esting  equipment  and  planning  team  strategy  just  before  the  whistle  that  will  start  this  exciting  eight-hour  con-  test.  Standing  beside  me  is  Raimondo  Uzcuden,  the  Mayor  of  Izquirra  and  the  only  inhabitant  who  speaks  Eng-  lish,  who  will  explain  to  us  some  of  the  fine  points  of  Qub.  Tell  us,  Mayor  Uzcuden,  how  many  players  are  there  on  a  sidein  Qub?  Mavor  UzcupEN  :  Eet  depends.  SpE  Ammown  :  I  see.  And  these  tall  wicker  baskets  the  players  are  strapping  to  their  heads-what  are  they  called?  Mavor  UzcupEnN:  Zhey  have  no  name.  Just  old  baskets.  SPIKE  AmmiDown:  Yes.  Now,  as  I  understand  it,  the  players  catch  the  ball,  orgub,  in  these  head-baskets  and  then  dribble  or  pass  the  gu6  to  their  team-  mates  at  top  speed.  And  the  players  must  keep  their  hands  in  their  pockets  ot  all  times.  Is  that  correct!  Mavor  UzcupEN:  Ees  correct.  SprK\xc2\xae  Ammmown:  And  what  is  the  ball,  orgub,  made  of?  Mayor  UzcupEN:  Sometimes  ces  a  stone.  Sometimes  ees  ball  of  feathers.  This  year,  ces  a  Coke  bottle.  SpikE  Ammimown:  Golly!  And  how  are  the  two  goals  demarcated?  Mavor  UzcupEn:  Uphill  goal  ees  Don  Federico's  donkey.  Downhill  goal  ees  bodega  window.  Goalie  pays  eef  " b"window  gets  broken.  Keeps  heem  on  toes,  no?  SpE  Ammimown:  Thank  you,  Mayor!  Gracias,  amigo!  And  there  you  have  it,  Qub  fans-the  ancient  rules  of  this  ancient  game!  We'll  be  back  a  little  later  with  some  great  action  scenes  of  this  dangerous  and  lightning-  fast  sport,  but  first  here's  another  mes-  sage  from  our  sponsor.  SPIKE  AmmIpown:  Here  we  are,  sports  lovers,  back  in  the  good  old  [REDACTED]  and  live  at  the  Pawtucket  Golf-  A-Way,  all  ready  with  more  of  your  &quot;Sunday  Sports  Shebang.&quot;  A  few  mo-  ments  ago,  we  brought  you  a  taped  view  of  some  of  the  complexities  of  that  dangerous  Basque  game  of  Qub.  Now  we  know  you're  ready  for  simpler,  more  famil-  iar  fare-a  game  that  you  all  know  and  love.  In  short,  it's  pro  football  time!  Buddy  Pitts  and  his  crew  are  perched  high  above  the  fifty-yard  line  at  Memorial  Stadium  in  Ottumwa,  [REDACTED],  where  the  second  quarter  of  the  game  between  the  Ottumwa  Chiefs  and  the  Hannibal  Elephants  is  in  progress.  Right  after  this  live  report,  we'll  get  back  to  Red  Glebman  and  the  World  Series  in  St.  Louis.  So  take  it,  Buddy  Pitts!  Bupoy  Pritts:  Thanks,  Spike,  and  good  afternoon,  grid  fans!  Here  in  Ot  tumwa,  the  score  is  tied,  24-24,  midway  through  the  second  quarter  in  this  rock-  'em,  sock-'em  game  between  the  hard-  nosed  behemoths  of  the  Des  Moines  [REDACTED]  League.  There's  time  out  on  the  field,  so  I'm  gonna  ask  Pudge  Spivack,  the  great  former  All-League  guard  who  is  our  play-spotter,  to  come  in  and  analyze  that  last  play  for  you.  Pudge?  PupoE  Spivack:  Thanks,  Buddy.  Now,  as  most  of  you  fans  must  have  recognized,  that  last  play  was  the  Two-  X  Blue-29  Rollout  Deep  Option.  As  you  can  see  on  the  blackboard  here,  Whitey  Bamberger  takes  the  snap,  fakes  to  his  halfback  coming  across,  fakes  to  the  fullback  cutting  inside,  and  then  rolls  out  to  his  right  behind  the  two  pulling  guards.  The  center,  Sprazzuolo,  has  to  trap  the  strongside  tackle,  O'Toole,  and  the  offemsive  strongside  tackle,  Rudin-  sky,  double-teams  the  middle  line-  backer,  &quot;Big  Mother&quot;  Majurciewicz,  with  Spranghausen,  the  leading  guard.  Meantime,  the  tight  end,  Krock,  takes  off  with  the  snap,  fakes  a  right  turn-in,  then  fakes  a  left  zig-out,  and  the\xc2\xbb  runs  a  straight  fly  pattern.  The  flanker  back,  Poole,  fakes  a  buttonhook,  then  actually  does  buttonhook  and  floats  back  to  take  a  safety-valve  pass  if  needed.  The  split  end,  &quot;Fingers&quot;  Guildenschaft,  mean-     time  fakes  a  five-yard  loop-out  to  the  right,  then  cuts  back  for  a  little  look-in  pass  over  center.  On  dee-fense,  the  Ele-  phants'  corner  linebacker,  Karakashian,  keyed  on  Krock,  unless,  of  course,  Guildenschift  had  overshafted,  in  which  case  Karakashian's  key  on  Krock  col-  lapses  the  corner  covered  by  Holtzapple,  the  safety  man  who  was  in  tight  on  the  Shirley  Red  Dog.  Of  course,  on  this  play  Whitey  Bamberger  dropped  the  snap  from  center  and  had  to  fall  on  the  ball,  so  none  of  this  made  much  differ-  ence.  O.K.,  Buddy:?  Buppy  Prrrs:  O.K.,  Pudge,  and  thanks.  I'm  sure  all  our  millions  of  view-  ers  were  glad  to  have  their  analysis  of  that  last  play  clearly  confirmed  by  you.  We'll  have  more  foot-  ball  action  in  just  a  few  min-  utes,  but  meantime  it's  back  to  Spike  Ammidown  in  Paw-  tucket.  Take  it,  Coach!  SpE  AmmiIpown:  Thank  you,  thank  you,  Buddy.  There's  nothing  like  football  for  thrills,  is  there,  fans?  Well,  it's  all  over  at  Busch  Sta-  dium,  folks.  The  final  game  of  the  1964  Series  is  history!  Red  Glebman  is  stand-  ing  by  with  a  recap  wrapup  of  that  great  chapter  of  the  Fall  Classic,  but  since  the  game  is  over,  we  can  wait  and  hear  from  Red  in  just  a  few  minutes.  Meantime,  here  at  the  Pawtucket  Golf-A-Way,  I  see  that  the  first  players  in  this  last  round  of  the  $250,000  Eastern  Miniature  Golf  Open  are  now  on  the  fifteenth  tee,  so  I  think  I'd  better  make  you  all  familiar  with  the  layout  of  this  challenging  final  eighteenth  hole.  As  you  can  see,  it's  a  magnificent  hole,  measuring  sixty-five  feet  four  inches-one  of  those  truly  demanding  par  3s.  So  far  in  the  tourney,  there  have  only  been  four  aces  carded  here,  each  entitling  the  lucky  player  to  another  round  at  no  extra  charge.  From  across  this  narrow,  tilted  teeter-totter,  hoping  to  drop  the  ball  safely  on  the  other  side,  beyond  the  Enchanted  For-  est,  and  then  straight  into  the  Gnome's  open  mouth-a  shot  that  will  come  out  the  pipe  on  the  other  side  of  Toad  Hall  and  right  onto  the  old  green.  Or,  if  he's  a  little  weak  off  the  tee,  hecan  play  it  safe  by  nipping  his  drive  up  this  little  garden  path,  between  the  rows  of  cockleshells,  past  the  rotating  vanes  of  Little  Bopeep's  windmill-which  takes  cool,  cool  timing,  believe  you  me-and  then  over  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  onto  the  green.  Even  if  his  shot  fades  too  much,  which  is  possible  today  in  this  left-to-  right  wind,  and  goes  off  the  bridge,  there's  just  a  chance  that  the  ball  will  hit  one  of  these  little  concrete  lily  pads  and-  But  now  I  see  it's  time  for  our  stations  to  identify  themselves,  so  I'll  let  them  come  in  now  and,  uh,  identify  themselves  from  coast  to  coast.  Now,  don't  forget  to  stay  right  with  us,  sports  fans,  because  we  have  plenty  more  of  the  &quot;Sunday  Sports  Shebang&quot;  to  bring  your  way  this  afternoon.  We'll  have  further  live  coverage  from  all  those  great  events  you've  already  seen,  includ-  ing  good  old  Red  Glebman's  on-the-  spot  summary  of  that  big  seventh  game  of  the  World  Series.  And,  above  and  beyond  all  this,  we'll  bring  you  a  special  report,  relayed  to  you  live  by  Pacific  Telstar,  on  the  Two  Million  Metre  Himalayan  Walkathon,  straight  from  Darjeeling;  the  Prep  School  Touch  Football  Play  of  the  Week,  taped  at  yesterday's  donnybrook  between  the  Seniors  and  Upper  Middlers  at  Gover-  nor  Dummer;  water-skiing  grand-  mothers  at  Lake  Tahoe;  and  lots,  lots  more!  So  don't  go  'way,  sports  fans.  Stay  right  there  in  your  seats  and  get  ready  for  more  healthful,  thrilling  mo-  ments  on  your  &quot;Sunday  Sports  She-     this  elevated  tee,  a  long-hitter  can  aim  bang&quot;! "