 b"HOW  Id  like  to  go  to  the  Abruzzi  to  buy  dishes!&quot;  his  mother  often  said.  It  was  the  one  trip  she  really  had  at  heart.  &quot;Just  you  and  I  in  your  little  car-with  room  for  only  the  dishes  in  the  back.&quot;  From  time  to  time,  some  friend  with  a  big  car  offered  to  drive  them.  &quot;Shall  we  go?  Shall  we  go?&quot;  she  would  say  and  look  ready  to  leave.  But  they  hadn't  got  around  to  going.  Then  she  had  fallen  ill.  She  had  im-  proved,  and  again  she  spoke  to  him  of  the  Abruzzi  trip.  Her  illness  was  one  of  relapses  and  remissions.  During  the  remissions,  she  would  say  something  about  going,  wistfully-more  wistfully,  it  seemed  to  him,  after  each  of  the  re-  lapses.  Finally,  one  came  from  which  she  did  not  recover.  It  was  four  months  now  since  she  had  died.  He  and  his  wife  were  living  in  her  house  in  Tuscany.  The  set  of  dishes  there  served  to  remind  him  of  the  trip  not  taken.  Plain  white,  with  a  couple  of  green  circles  at  the  rim,  they  had  been  bought  by  his  mother  provi-  sionally,  to  discard  as  soon  as  she  could  find  what  she  was  looking  for.  They  had  the  merit  of  being  unpretentious,  but  that  was  all;  they  didn't  offend  you.  At  the  same  time,  like  a  canvas  with  a  piece  of  stripping  round  it,  their  blank-  ness  was  intriguing.  You  felt  a  constant  urge  for  some  kind  of  form  to  take  place  in  that  blankness.  It  invited  form.  The  right  form  was  not  easy  to     find-not  in  the  shops  within  reach,  at  any  rate.  Stuffed  birds,  stiff  flowers,  patterns  so  often  used  that  they  looked  dusty,  deliberate  wriggles-that's  what  you  got  here.  In  the  Abruzzi,  it  was  different.  There,  in  the  town  of  Aquila,  six  years  before,  while  walking  down  a  narrow  lane,  he  had  found  a  small  ce-  ramics  store.  Each  cup,  vase,  plate,  and  saucer  had  a  painting-a  landscape  with  trees,  a  brook,  a  little  house,  and  mountains  in  the  background,  done  with  colors  that  held  meaning:  the  blue  of  distance,  the  green  of  freshness,  the  brown  of  earth.  They  were  earthy  dishes-glazed  clayware,  terra  cotta-  not  stamped,  not  out  of  a  mold,  not  printed  but  made  by  hand.  Each  had  a  different  landscape,  reflecting  a  mood,  a  fancy,  a  moment  in  a  person's  life.  And  on  the  back  of  each,  handwritten,  like  a  signature,  was  the  name  of  the  Abruzzimountain  village  they  came  from-Castelli.  He  had  bought  several  and  taken  them  home.  His  mother,  who  had  an  even  greater  passion  than  he  had  for  dishes,  had  liked  them  very  much,  and  for  a  long  time-six  years-he  had  wanted  to  take  her  with  him  and  go  to  Castelli  to  buy  more,  right  in  the  place  where  they  were  made.  Now  it  was  too  late  to  take  her.  Still,  he  felt  he  should  make  the  trip-felt  it  almost  as  a  duty.  Perhaps  in  some  su-  pernatural  way  she  would  be  with  him,  partaking  of  his  pleasure  everywhere.  He  was  in  Rome.  With  his  wife  and    baby,  he  had  gone  there  for  a  few  days-he  by  car,  they  by  train,  to  avoid  the  bumps  and  bends  ofthe  roads.  They  were  getting  ready  to  return  home-  again  he  by  car,  with  the  luggage,  and  they  by  train-when  he  said,  &quot;I  think  I'll  go  back  by  way  of  the  Abruzzi  and  Umbria.  I  want  to  get  some  dishes.  I  may  take  two  days.  Don't  worry  about  me  if  I'm  late.&quot;  Out  of  Rome,  he  headed  north  along  the  Tiber  for  a  way,  then  left  its  valley,  climbed  the  Sabine  Mountains,  proceed-  ed  to  Rieti,  and  turned  east  toward  the  Apennines.  He  crossed  the  great  divide,  descended  to  a  plateau,  only  to  begin  climbing  again  up  toward  the  water-  shed,  northeast  of  where  he  had  crossed  it.  He  reached  a  high,  saddlelike  moun-  tain  pass.  From  it,  between  spectacular  mountains,  the  road  ran  down  along  a  deep  and  narrow  gully  carved  by  a  river.  It  was  a  good  thing  the  car  was  open,  he  thought;  from  a  closed  one,  unless  he  leaned  out,  he  wouldn't  have  been  able  to  see  the  mountaintops,  they  were  so  high  and  he  was  down  so  low-almost  level  with  the  river.  The  river  glistened  between  fallen  boulders,  some  so  huge  no  flood  could  ever  budge  them,  others  precariously  balanced  on  one  end-colossal  pillars  that  the  cur-  rent  continuously  undermined  and  would  someday  topple  overwith  a  splash.  He  raced  the  river-always  be-  fore  him  and  behind  him,  like  the  road.  From  bridge  to  bridge,  dazzled  by  its  silver  light,  he  raced  it,  joined  it,  left  it,  caught  sight  of  it  and  lost  it,  came  on  it  so  close  he  felt  he'd  run  it  down,  only  to  see  it  curving  round  the  corner  of  the  gully  a  mile  away.  The  gully  got  no  sun,  though  it  was  late  morning  and  Septem-  ber.  But  he  could  see  the  sun  shining  on  the  s  brow  ofthe  mountain  o  high  over  the  river,  on  the  opposite  side.  Up  there,  several  white  objects  caught  his  eye.  Rocks,  were  they?  But  why  so  white,  when  &quot;~  |  everything  around,  and  \\  the  rocky  cliff  it-  self,  was  gray?  Puz-  zled,  he  stopped  the  car  and  reached  for  a  pair  of  binoculars  he  |  i;  had  inside  abasket  i  i  on  the  back  seat.  He  looked  through  them.  Sheets-bedsheets  laid  out  to  dry  in  the  " b"sun-that's  what  they  were.  Shifting  the  bin-  oculars  slightly  to  the  right,  he  sawwhat  he  hadn't  noticed  with  the  naked  eye:  a  little  row  of  houses,  gray  like  the  mountain-part  ofthe  mountain,  really-an  upward  prolongation  of  the  cliff,  made  of  the  same  stone,  but  with  windows  and  a  slightly  more  geometric  out-  line.  He  drove  on.  He  wasn't  just  sightsecing.  Before  midday,  he  must  get  to  Castelli,  to  buy  the  plates  there.  It  was  a  village,  perhaps,  like  this  one,  perched  up  high,  on  the  east-for  him,  the  far  side-of  the  Apennines'  tallest  mountain.  It  was  bigger  than  this  village,  though,  big  enough  to  be  on  his  road  map.  This  one  wasn't;  it  didn't  make  the  1:500.000  scale.  But  Castelli  was  more  out  of  the  way-  so  remote  one  either  went  there  ex-  pressly  or  not  at  all.  He  had  an  idea  that  the  Renaissance  had  taken  refuge  in  it  and  its  pottery  works,  taken  refuge  in  plates,  dishes,  humble  things,  up  there  on  the  mountains  away  from  the  main  roads,  and  that  someday,  when  the  time  was  ripe,  it  would  blossom  out  from  there,  invade  the  plains  and  cities  once  again.  The  gully  he  had  been  driving  along  widened.  It  was  a  valley  now,  and  the  huge  boulders  on  the  river  had  given  way  to  stones  and  pebbles.  He  came  to  a  fair-sized  village,  and  a  fork.  His  road  was  on  the  right-the  smaller  of  the  two,  the  unpaved  one.  Less  than  a  mile  away,  it  left  the  valley  and  began  to  climb.  Up  and  down  the  foothills  of  the  mountain  it  led  him,  across  small  stone  bridges  over  streams,  in  between  woods  and  fields,  the  woods  gaining  on  the  fields  as  he  went  on,  and  the  moun-  tain  always  looming  in  the  distance  to  the  right,  its  peak  concealed  by  a  uni-  formly  gray  curtain  of  mist.  He  passed  a  village  islanded  by  a  stream,  connected  to  the  mainland  by  a  stone  bridge-a  village  whose  five-  or  six-centuries-old  castle  looked,  and  was,  perhaps,  its  newest  building.  On  the  many-creviced  brick  structure,  herbs  and  flowers  sprouted  tall  and  thin,  way-  ing  in  the  wind,  and  here  and  there  even  a  shrub  and  stunted  tree-an  olive,  an  oak,  a  cypress.  He  stopped  to  examine  all  these  closely,  brought  eight  times  nearer  to  him  by  the  lenses  of  his  binoculars.  He  came  to  another,  smaller  village.  Past  this  one,  two  or  three  miles,  the  soil,  which  farther  down  had  been  a  fer-  tile  brown,  became  ashen  gray.  Clay.  &quot;What  their  dishes  are  made  of,&quot;  he  said  to  himself,  and  knew  he  must  be  near.  The  landscape  was  guttered  by  deep  creeks,  scored  bythem.  No  grass,  no  plant  whatever,  grew  here.  But  for  that  common  clay,  he  thought,  there'd  be  no  village-or,  at  least,  no  potteries.  Yet  they  didn't  exist  becouse  of  that  clay.  The  clay  was  a  mere  condition.  An  intelligent  hand  had  picked  it  up.  He  came  to  the  last  corner  that  con-  cealed  the  village;  snail-shell-shaped,  on  a  high  hill  across  a  deep  ravine,  it  dis-  closed  itself.  The  road  descended  the  ravine  to  cross  a  stream,  then  sharply  rose  again  to  the  first  houses.  It  became  a  village  street,  flanked  by  a  low  wall  on  his  left  and  by  a  curving  row  of  houses  on  his  right.  He  passed  a  small  store  with  dishes  and  vases  in  the  window.  I  am  here  all  right,  he  thought.  Twenty  feet  farther  on,  the  street  turned  inward,  between  houses,  and  soon  it  opened  into  a  square.  He  parked  his  car.  There  were  no  chimney  stacks,  no  factorylike  build-  ings  or  workshops  in  sight-just  ancient  little  houses  close  together.  One  had  a  ceramics  store,  and  he  could  see  another  up  a  narrow  street.  On  the  opposite  side  of  the  square,  a  wider  street  climbed  in  a  curve  toward  a  second,  smaller  square,  where  the  town  hall  and  parish  church  stood.  He  had  no  watch.  Hoping  to  do  some  shopping  before  the  stores  closed  for  lunch,  he  asked  a  man  the  time.   &quot;It's  twelve-twenty,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;Were  you  looking  for  something?  Maybe  someplace  I  can  direct  you  to?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  came  here  to  buy  plates.&quot;  &quot;Plates,&quot;  the  man  said,  like  an  angler  who  had  sighted  a  fish  biting.  &quot;Dinner  plates  or  plates  to  hang  up  on  a  wall?&quot;  &quot;Dinner  plates.&quot;  'Then  come  with  me.  I'll  take  you  to  the  best  place  for  them.  These  stores  here  have  more  the  decorative  kind.&quot;  The  man  led  him  down  some  steps  into  a  steep  alley,  down  the  alley  and  to  the  right,  through  an  arch,  a  vault,  anar-  row  passage,  into  another  alley  on  a  lower  level  of  the  hill,  then  up  a  few  steps,  where  he  gave  a  push  to  a  bat-  tered  wooden  door.  It  opened  into  a  small  workshop  with  walls  blackened  by  smoke.  A  big  young  man  turned  slowly  to  look  at  them.  &quot;He  wants  to  buy  plates,&quot;  the  man  said  briskly,  and  left.  The  young  man  looked  at  him  slight,  ly  suspiciously,  as  at  a  customer  who  won't  buy  much-a  couple  of  things  at  most.  An  older  man  looked  up  at  him  from  the  shadow,  the  semi-darkness  of  the  room,  then  went  on  working,  his  curiosity  taken  care  of.  &quot;T'll  show  you  what  we  have,&quot;  the  young  man  said,  and  took  him  down  a  staircase  to  the  floor  below,  which,  because  the  village  was  on  a  steep  hill,  was  the  basement  on  one  side  and  the  ground  floor  on  the  other.  It  had  two  rooms.  One,  a  few  steps  below  the  other,  was  a  storeroom,  and  it  was  piled  with  dishes.  They  were  just  what  he  wanted.  Hehummed  with  satisfaction  and  crouched  before  each  pile.  &quot;At  least  a  dozen  of  these,&quot;  he  said,  and  picked  them  out.  Each  landscape,  similarto  the  " b" ones  he  had  seen  years  before,  was  dif-  ferent  from  the  next,  though  they  were  garlanded  by  more  or  less  the  same  flowers.  &quot;And  a  dozen  matching  soup  plates.  Six  cups,  six  saucers.&quot;  :  The  young  man  looked  at  him  with  surprise.  &quot;Shall  I  geta  box?&quot;  &quot;A  good  idea,&quot;  he  said,  and  walked  around.  &quot;This  ashtray,  too,  and  this,  and  this,  and  this.  The  more  I  look  around,  the  more  I  want  to  buy.  They  fascinate  me.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  yes,  that's  the  way  it  is,&quot;  the  young  man  said.  Somewhat  opaque,  his  expression  held  a  certain  admiration  now.  &quot;This  pitcher,  too.  And  this  little  box.&quot;  The  young  man  had  a  hard  time  keeping  up  with  him,  packing  the  things  in  straw.  &quot;This  little  vase,  and  this,  and  this.&quot;  God,  there  was  no  ending.  Well,  I  must  really  stop  now,  he  thought.  He  wanted  to  see  some  of  the  other  stores.  &quot;Could  I  have  these  taken  to  my  car?  A  small  green  convertible  parked  there  on  the  square.  Oh,  and  let  me  pay  you.&quot;  He  observed  the  young  man  handling  the  dishes,  packing  them,  making  up  the  bill.  &quot;Who  painted  them?&quot;  he  asked.  He  would  have  wagered  that  it  wasn't  the  young  man-a  good  fellow,  but  shal-  low-eyed,  a  little  dull.  Nor,  he  thought,  was  it  the  old  man  he  had  seen.  A  sharp-  er  stroke,  a  quicker  hand  was  needed  than  this  young  man  possessed,  but  chiefly  a  brighter  glance,  eyes  more  per-  ceptive.  &quot;He  isn't  here  now.  He  only  comes  once  in  a  while.&quot;  When  he  feels  like  it,  he  thought.  Yes,  that  sounded  right.  He  paid  the  bill-about  twenty-five  dollars-and  went  back  up  to  the  square.  One  ofthe  stores  was  still  open,  and  he  entered.  Contrary  to  what  the  man  he  had  first  met  told  him,  the  shop  had  a  wide  selection  of  dinnerware.  Again  he  began  choosing.  I  must  have  at  least  twenty  of  those  beautiful  blue  anemones,  he  thought.  He  felt  that  he  was  buying  flowers.  &quot;Twenty  of  these  pale-blue  ones.  A  dozen  of  these  fruit  plates.  And  a  dozen  of  these  teacups.&quot;  A  girl,  a  young  man,  an  older  wom-  an  and  her  husband  busied  themselves  around  him,  pleased  to  have  business,  especially  at  this  time-the  good  season  over.  The  husband,  owner  of  the  firm,  was  a  roundish,  bald  man  with  a  clear  and  happy  face.  He  looked  like  an  artist;  there  was  curiosity  in  him,  speculation  in  his  eyes.  He  seemed  to  want  to  engage  in  a  conversation.  He  rubbed  his  hands  together,  clasped  them,  let  them  go,  and,  almost  too  politely,  very  gently,  asked  if  where  he  came  from  they  made  plates  like  these,  &quot;No,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;Just  the  conven-  tional,  fashionable  stuff.  Nothing  like  this-nothing  fresh.  Coats  of  arms,  em-  blems,  artificial-looking  flowers.&quot;  &quot;Here  we  paint  like  our  fathers,  like  our  grandfathers.  I  paint  myself,  and  my  family  here  helps  me,  and  seven  workmen.&quot;  He  went  to  the  window  and  looked  out.  &quot;There,  you  see.  They  are  unloading  the  firewood.  Beechwood.  We  use  beech  because  it  makes  a  very  hot,  brightflame.  Nine  hundred  degrees  our  dishes  are  fired  to.  That's  why  they  don't  easily  break.  We  sell  them  even  in  foreign  lands-Boston,  [REDACTED].  The  man  from  [REDACTED]  drove  here  to  see  me  recently.  Oh,  simpaticissimo.  Over  there  is  the  mountain.  It's  clouded  over,  or  you  would  see  it.&quot;  The  dishes  were  packed.  He  paid  for  them-twenty  dollars-then  left  with  his  bundle  and  took  it  to  the  car.  He  had  lunch  in  a  little  trattoria  in  the  square,  and  afterward  he  walked  up  to  the  small  square  on  top  of  the  hill,  to  see  the  town  hall  and  the  parish  church.  In  the  center  of  the  upper  square,  there  was  a  bust  of  a  celebrated  seventeenth,  century  Castelli  ceramist,  painter,  and  sculptor.  It  was  he,  apparently,  who  had  begun-or  given  new  impulse  to--the  works.  On  the  outside  walls  of  the  town  hall  and  the  church,  there  were  several  reliefs  he  had  done  in  terra  cotta.  The  town  hall  was  a  massive  building-a  castle,  really-whose  base,  on  the  left  side  and  back,  was  set  on  the  bare,  steep,  sloping  hill,  at  least  a  hundred  feet  below  the  level  of  the  square.  The  town  hall  seemed  like  the  bulwark  of  the  village,     " b"protecting  its  little  houses  from  the  north.  He  went  back  down  to  the  lower  square,  and  into  two  more  stores.  He  bought  two  salad  bowls,  egg  cups,  coffee  cups,  and  three  or  four  vases,  spend-  ing  all  the  money  he  had  except  for  a  few  thousand  lire-just  enough  to  get  home  on,  he  hoped.  He  was  glad  he  had  spent  so  much.  After  all,  he  be-  lieved  in  this  village;  he  wanted  to  sup-  port  it.  And  he  had-he  had  given  each  store  and  workshop  a  little  business,  and  at  the  same  time  had  gota  sup-  ply  of  dishes  that  would  keep  him  well  provided  for  years.  In  a  way,  he  felt  odd-he,  a  man,  buying  all  these  house-  hold  things.  But  he  wasn't  just  doing  it  for  himself;  at  least,  he  hoped  he  wasn't.  With  the  last  bundles  of  dishes  in  his  arms,  he  went  to  the  car  and  set  them  in  the  back  next  to  the  other  dishes  and  his  basket.  The  car  was  full.  Yet  not  quite-his  basket  had  an  empty  space  on  top.  The  binoculars  weren't  there.  He  was  sure  he  had  left  them  in  it.  He  should  have  locked  the  car-even  if  one  door  didn't  lock,  the  other  did.  He  had  only  pulled  thetop  up.  Maybe  they  had  fallen  on  the  floor.  He  looked  under  the  seats,  between  the  boxes.  No,  they  hadn't.  &quot;Have  you  lost  something?&quot;  He  looked  behind  him.  A  man  was  poring  over  his  shoulder,  an  expression  of  concern  on  his  face.  &quot;Well,  yes-a  pair  of  binoculars.&quot;  &quot;Had  you  left  them  in  the  car?&quot;  Yes,  in  the  basket.&quot;  The  man  looked  inside  the  basket,  tousling  the  change  of  clothes  there,  then  inspected  the  whole  car  thoroughly.  Nothing.  By  this  time,  a  couple  more  men  had  come  to  the  car,  and  two  or  three  more  wereon  their  way,  all  asking  questions,  milling  around.  &quot;Was  it  a  good  pair  of  binoculars?&quot;  &quot;Well,  yes,  fairly  good.  ..  .  But  it  doesn't  matter.&quot;  &quot;And  you  are  sure  you  had  them  when  you  came?&quot;  &quot;I  think  so.  ..  .  Yes,  I  had  them.&quot;  They  looked  at  one  another.  &quot;Ber-  nardo,&quot;  somebody  said.  &quot;Bernardo,&quot;  another  man  repeated.  &quot;Who  is  Bernardo?&quot;  &quot;Hu!  He  is  a  foolish  boy.  I  saw  him  strolling  round  the  car  before-snoop-  ing.&quot;  &quot;I  should  have  locked  it.  But  it  can't  really  be  locked.&quot;  &quot;This  time  he  isn't  going  to  get  away  with  it,  though,&quot;  one  of  the  men  said.  &quot;He  needs  a  lesson,&quot;  said  another. &quot;It's  once  too  often,&quot;  the  first  man  said.  Somebody  started  cursing.  &quot;There  goes  the  honor  of  this  village  by  it!&quot;  he  said.  Halfheartedly,  he  was  still  looking  inside  the  car,  just  to  give  himself  some-  thing  to  do.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  a  man  explained,  &quot;he's  a  bit  odd,  this  Bernardo  boy,&quot;  and  he     dipped  his  hand  to  this  side  and  to  that  next  to  his  forehead.  A  carabiniere  came,  and  began  ask-  ing  tedious  questions-questions  no  one  would  have  thought  of  answering,  ex-  cept  to  a  carabiniere.  &quot;Come,  let's  go  find  Bernardo,&quot;  someone  said.  &quot;&quot;No,  look,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'd  rather  you  did  nothing  about  it.  I  don't  mind  about  the  binoculars.  Anyway,  they  hurt  my  Eyes.\xe2\x80\x9d  They  looked  at  him  as  if  he  were  a  little  odd  himself.  &quot;He's  a  thief,&quot;  a  man  saidto  him.  \xc2\xabYou  came  to  buy  dishes.  You  brought  us  good  business.  You  mustn't  be  treated  in  this  way.  It  isn't  fair.&quot;  &quot;Come,  let's  go  get  him,&quot;  the  first  " b"  man  said,  and  in  a  moment  he  was  off,  with  two  or  three  others  and  thecara-  biniere.  They  seemed  to  know  exactly  where  to  go,  as  if  this  had  happened  before.  &quot;Where  are  they  going?&quot;  &quot;His  home.&quot;  Soon  they  came  back  with  a  youth;  at  second  glance,  he  looked  to  be  in  his  late  twenties-an  overgrown,  red-faced  fellow  with  a  bad  case  of  acne  and  very  short  hair.  He  was  followed  by  a  slender  old  woman  with  a  black  kerchief  on  her  head,  in  black  stockings  and  threadbare  clothes-a  woman  who  looked  as  if  she  had  been  in  mourning  half  her  life;  was  probably  his  grandmother.  Part  of  the  time  she  was  swearing  at  the  boy,  part  of  the  time  beseeching  the  cara-  biniere  to  forgive  him.  Two  orthree  times  she  hit  the  boy  on  his  back,  hop-  ing,  perhaps,  they  might  accept  that  as  punishment  enough  for  him.  Each  time,  he  ducked  and  raised  an  elbow.  The  old  woman  looked  at  the  car  and  at  the  stranger,  and  began  asking  his  for-  giveness.  &quot;Yes,  yes,  I  forgive  him,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,  he's  in  for  it  this  time.  He's  stolen  before,&quot;  the  carabiniere  said.  &quot;Here-are  these  your  binoculars?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said,  and  took  them.  &quot;Really,  marshal,  I  don't  want  to  press  charges.  Let  him  go.  After  all,  the  binoculars  have  been  found.  Every-  thing's  all  right.&quot;  &quot;It's  out  of  your  hands,  I'm  afraid.  Everyone  come  to  the  police  station  with  me.&quot;  They  all  went  up  to  the  town  hall.  There,  in  a  dingy  office  that  smelled  of  filthy  paper  and  looked  as  dreary  as  any  other  police  station  in  the  world,  he  answered  many  questions.  At  last,  after  an  hour,  he  went  out  the  front  door.  Half  an  hour  earlier,  Bernardo  had  been  led  through  an-  other.  He  walked  slowly  down  the  hill  to  the  lower  square,  past  the  store  where  he  had  bought  part  of  his  dishes,  to  the  car.  Everywhere,  he  felt  eyes  looking  at  him.  He  got  into  his  car,  started  the  motor,  and  drove  away-  down  to  the  creek,  across  it,  and  up  to  the  top  of  the  next  hill.  There  he  stopped,  took  his  binocu-  f  lars  out  of  the  basket,  and  f  looked  through  them  at  the  castled  structure  of  the  town  hall.  On  its  left,  vertical  side,  he  could  see  many  holes  and  a  tiny  window,  barred.  He  wrested  the  binoculars  from  his  eyes.  Quickly,  he  resumed  driving.  He  drove  all  evening,  and  reached  his  home  that  night.  FEW  days  later,  at  the  table,  waiting  for  the  food  to  be  passed  round,  he  stared  into  his  empty  plate.  He  looked  at  it  intently.  What  he  saw  was  not  the  open  sky,  the  little  silver  cloud,  the  tree,  the  hut,  the  mountain  the  blue  color  of  distance,  and  the  flowers  but  a  barred  window.  &quot;Aren't  these  plates  lovely!&quot;  a  guest  said  to  him.  He  looked  up  at  her.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Yes.  Lovely.&quot;  He  thought,  The  binoculars  stolen,  the  boy  in  jail,  and  this  woman  here  instead  of  my  mother-they  are  all  in  keeping  with  each  other."