 b"Ter  Praprop  Bowr  (&quot;Atafumu&quot;)  IN  a  dazzling,  deeply  significant  switch  from  the  decadent  opulence  that  marked  his  &quot;Deacon  Wata-  nabe  and  the  Shower  Clogs&quot;  and  the  rustic  crudity  of  his  &quot;The  Rice  Split-  ter&quot;  (winner  of  the  Grand  Prix  at  the  1963  McKeesport  Festival),  Pro-  tubo  Mitihara  has  gone  to  the  contem-  porary  half-world  of  the  [REDACTED]  bowl-  ing  alleys  to  bring  us  a  disquieting,  understated,  and  unlovely  tale  of  a  teen-age  pinspotter  who  is  suffering  from  a  crisis  of  identity  brought  on  by  thethreat  of  automation.  The  symbol-  ism  here  (the  round  perfection  of  the  bowling  balls  marred  by  ugly  yet  neces-  sary  finger  holes)  is  pervasive  yet  nev-  er  blatant.  Henry  Mancini  has  com-  posed  a  brilliant  score  that  combines  the  harsh  thunder  of  falling  tenpins  with  the  classic  tinkling  dissonances  of  Japanese  folk  opera.  You  will  especially  remember  the  painful  eleven-minute  sequence,  played  intotal  silence  and  darkness,  in  which  Zenzu  Fumita,  in  the  role  of  the  hero's  uncle,  gropes  for  the  light  switch  in  the  men'sroom.  PappuE  Your  Own  Canor  (&quot;Pas  de  le  Rhone  que  Nous&quot;)  T  was  inevitable,  given  the  long  Gallic  fascination  with  Le  Fer  Ouest,  that  Jean-Paul  Luc  would  even-  tually  fashion  a  film  out  of  Cooper's  &quot;Leatherstocking  Tales,&quot;  but  who  would  have  guessed  that  his  freehand  cinematic  translation  would  transform  Chingachgook  into  a  middle-aged,  sex-  ually  repressed  Michelin  restaurant  scout  (Jean-Paul  Poulenc),  or  that  Natty  Bumppo  would  emerge  as  Natalie  Beaupr\xc3\xa9,  a  shy  yet  smoldering  Girl  Scout  leader  (Jeanne-Paule  Morbideau)  who  loses  first  her  compass  and  then  her  virginity  during  a  hike  in  the  Bois  de  Boulogne?  This  film,  frankly  prurient,  never  escapes  into  easy  sentimentalism,  and  though  some  in  the  audience  may  be  shocked  by  the  filling-station  scene  or  the  episode  of  the  marrons  glac\xc3\xa9s,  none  will  deny  that  Luc's  cinemato-  graphic  intelligence  has  brought  us  a  fresh  comprehension  of  the  &quot;innocence&quot;  of  the  great  American  woods.  HE  National  Film  Board  of  [REDACTED],  which  has  been  respon-  sible  for  some  of  the  best  documentaries  in  recent  years  (its  vivid  &quot;Hockey  Puck  Injuries&quot;  won  second  prize  at  the  [REDACTED]  Biennale),  has  surpassed  itself  with  this  unflinching  study  of  nail-  biting  habits  in  a  typical  middle-income  household.  Although  Director  Tony  Garwood  and  Producer  Al  Gurtch  stick  manfully  to  their  subject  while  depict,  ing,  with  brisk  crosscutting,  the  slow  decline  of  parental  confidence  suffered  by  teen-agers  with  low  cuticle  resist-  ance,  the  real  hero  of  the  film  is  down-  town  Saskatoon,  a  mise  en  scene  of  sur-  prising  beauty  and  ambivalence.  This  masterpiece  proves  again  that  subject  matter  is  no  obstacle,  and  almost  of  no  concern,  to  modern  cinematic  genius.  THs  Groans  or  WinTEr  (&quot;Vinters-  gronen&quot;  )  HIS  rare  print  of  Gunnar  Malm-  strom's  much  whispered-about  early  chef-d'ceuvre  offers  a  first  chance  for  American  audiences  to  see  an  un-  cut  version  of  a  film  from  the  Swed-  ish  master's  pre-religious  period.  The  movie,  which  has  been  banned  for  eight  years  in  537061696e  and  [REDACTED],  deals  with  the  progressive  alienation,  aber-  ration,  and  madness  ofa  young  Stock-  holm  eel-sorterafter  he  surprises  his  mother  and  his  aged  tutor  together  in  a  sauna  bath.  Shot  mainly  with  a  hand-  held  and  defective  16-mm.  camera,  it  contains  crude,  juvenile  versions  of  Malmstrom's  purposefully  &quot;tiresome&quot;     SEPTEMBER  2  6,  19  G4  repeated  symbols,  juxtapositions,  and  allegorical  leitmotivs,  and  as  such  is  of  inestimable  cinematohistorical  value.  And,  as  Henry  Miller  has  said,  &quot;This  film  is  not  just  about  lust  and  insanity.  It  is  also  a  wet  fish  in  the  face  to  all  those  who  would  deny  the  delicacy  of  the  human  spirit.&quot;  Once  Acam  CHaratries  (&quot;Chapat-  ty,  Chapatty,  Chapatty&quot;  )  AS  Indian  farce  been  done  to  death?  Certainly  not!  Once  again  the  puckish  Ram  Mukerjee  has  dug  deep  into  his  inexhaustible  bag  of  cinematic  magic  tricks  and  wry  ironies  to  bring  us  this  heartwarming  tragicomedy  about  a  Hindu  family  struggling  to  find  its  multiple  identity  against  the  age-old  handicaps  of  il-  literacy,  matriarchy,  monkey  worship,  and  boredom.  On  the  surface,  this  leisurely,  210-minute  epic  merely  re-  counts  the  effects  of  a  crippling  strike  at  the  local  paraldehyde  works  upon  asmall  north-Indian  mud  village,  but  woven  through  this  coarse  fabric  are  bright  threads  of  allegory  and  impu-  dence  that  ask  profound  questions  about  the  direction  and  meaningfulness  of  our  Western  agrarian  policies.  On  the  same  bill,  there  will  be  a  fifty-minute  short  that  depicts,  with  utter  frankness  and  in  fantastic  colors,  the  sinuous  dalliance  and  courtship  habits  of  the  oarfishes  of  the  Great  Barrier  Reef;  the  musical  accompaniment,  singularly  apt,  is  Beethoven's  &quot;Eroica.&quot;  Tur  [REDACTED]  WuEeEt  HE  only  American  'entry  in  this  festival  is  of  the  new,  hard-  line,  super-realistic  [REDACTED]  genre,  as  insistent  and  electrifying  as  a  Dexe-  drine  tablet.  This  drama,  set  in  the  America  of  the  day  after  tomorrow,  deals  with  afrightening  power  struggle  that  ensues  when  the  paranoid  top  magnate  of  a  vast  car-rental  agency  attempts  to  seize  control  of  the  National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Administration,  thus  blackmailing  Congress  into  a  re-  peal  of  the  corporate  income-tax  statutes.  The  gripping  climax,  all  the  more  con-  vincing  for  its  unlikelihood,  comes  when  the  C.I.A.  must  track  down  the  Chief  Executive's  purloined  credit  card  in  time  to  abort  a  doomed  billion-dollar  [REDACTED]  shot.  Eli  Wallach  easily  &quot;steals&quot;  theacting  honors  with  his  bijou  por-  trayal  of  the  Minority  Whip.  Oocu  (&quot;Oogu&quot;)  VEN  the  most  dedicated  film  en-  thusiast  might  hesitate  at  the  prospect  of  sitting  through  a  three-hour  movie  that  deals  with  an  eighty-five,  " b"year-old  Eskimo  grandmother  who  suffers  from  a  morbid  fear  ofthe  cold  and  who  is  exiled,  toothless,  to  the  Husky  pens  after  a  lifetime  of  honorable  boot-chewing.  But  doubters  will  think  twice  when  they  learn  that  this  haunt-  ing,  rime-swept  drama  comes  from  the  hand  of  Luigi  DaRimini,  creator  of  the  triumphant,  lusty  &quot;Saltimbocca&quot;  (win-  ner  of  the  Prix-Fixe  at  the  Pomfret  School  Festival).  DaRimini's  patient,  unwinking  camera  and  an  untranslated,  undubbed  sound  track  that  is  alive  with  Eskimo  gutturals  and  canine  snarls  combine,  however  slowly,  to  bring  alive  a  relationship  between  the  old  woman,  the  lead  dog,  and  a  herd  of  unseen  caribou  that  is  pure  Genet.  Klikiat  Ipaka,  the  aged  heroine,  estab-  lishes  herself  in  this,  her  first  film,  as  an  actress  of  impenetrable  subtlety.  Not  to  be  missed!  CarTooNn  anp  Sorts  NiceT!  FULL  four  hours  of  wit,  color,  and  freewheeling  imagination  from  the  palettes  and  lenses  of  some  of  the  world's  most  brilliantly  inventive  artists-Pop,  Zen,  and  Square--who  are  now  appropriating  the  Aitschy  old  milieu  of  Donald,  Bugs,  and  Tom  &amp;  Jerry.  Among  the  fifteen  shorts  are  Pablo  Eisenstadt's  &quot;Cosine  Baby,&quot;  which,  entirely  through  the  medium  of  animated  mathematical  symbols,  makes  calculus  not  only  understandable  but  risible,  all  in  the  space  of  twenty  minutes!  Here,  too,  is  &quot;Amoebophre-  nia,&quot;  a  short  combining  microphotog-  raphy  and  cartoon  doodling  (a  process     discovered  by  Dr.  Gerhardt  Schum-  peter,  ofthe  Rockefeller  Institute),  which  explicates,  with  wacky  inter-  polated  dialogue,  the  loss  of  identity  sensed  byan  amoeba  while  it  under-  goes  binary  fission.  Finally,  mention  must  be  made  of  Anders  Mickoszy's  &quot;Bottle  Fatigue&quot;  (winner  of  the  Silver  Potato  at  the  Boise  Festival),  a  stun-  ningly  arrayed  montage  of  old  bottle  caps,  broken  glass,  and  discarded  soda  straws  that  says,  with  exquisite  under-  statement,  more  about  the  slow  poison  of  prejudice  than  a  dozen  weighty  books  of  sociology.  The  utter  silence  in  the  au-  dience  during  the  running  of  this  two-  reeler  and  the  relieved  applause  at  its  termination  are  a  tribute  to  its  high  seri-  ousness-and  to  the  maturity  of  cinema  art  in  our  time.  "