 b"THE  Frenchbook  was  lying  open  on  a  corner  of  the  dining-room  table,  between  the  floor  lamp  and  the  window.  The  floor  lamp,  which  had  come  with  the  house,  had  a  cover  made  of  green  glass,  with  a  fringe.  The  French  book  must  have  lain  just  that  way  for  two  months.  Nancy,  coming  in  from  the  beach,  tried  not  to  look  at  it.  It  reminded  her  of  how  much  she  had  meant  to  accomplish  during  the  sum-  mer,  of  the  strong  sense  of  intent,  some-  thing  like  refinement,  with  which  she  had  chosen  just  that  spot  for  studying.  It  was  out  of  hearing  of  the  conversa-  tions  with  the  neighbors  that  went  on  every  evening  out  on  the  side  porch,  it  had  window  light  in  the  daytime  and  lamplight  at  night,  it  had  a  small,  slant-  ing  view  ofthe  beach,  and  it  drew  a  breeze.  The  pencils  were  still  there,  still  sharp,  and  the  exercise,  broken  off.  She  sometimes  stopped  to  read  it  over.  &quot;''The  soldiers  of  the  emperor  were  crossing  the  bridge:  Les  soldats  de  Pem-  pereur  traversment  le  pont.  The  officer  has  already  knocked  at  the  gate:  L'of}-  cier  a  d\xc3\xa9ja  frapp\xc3\xa9-&quot;  She  couldnot  have  finished  that  sentence  now  if  she  had  sat  right  down  and  tried.  Nancy  could  no  longer  find  herself  in  relation  to  the  girl  who  had  sought  out  sucha  good  place  to  study,  had  sharpened  the  pencils  and  opened  the  book  and  sat  down  to  bend  over  it.  What  shedid  know  was  how-just  now,  when  she  had  been  down  at  the  beach,  across  the  boulevard-the  sand  scuffed  beneath  her  step  and  shells  lay  strewn  about,  chipped  and  disorderly,  near  the  water's  edge.  Some  shells  were  empty;  some,  with  damp  drying  down  their  backs,  went  for  short  walks.  Far  out,  a  long  white  shelf  of  cloud  indicated  a  distance  no  gull  could  dream  of  gain-  ing,  though  the  gulls  spun  tirelessly  up,  dazzling  in  the  white  light  that  comes  just  as  morning  vanishes.  A  troop  of  pelicans  sat  like  curiously  carved  knobs  on  the  tops  of  a  long  series  of  wooden  piles,  which  were  spaced  out  at  intervals  in  the  water.  The  piles  were  what  was  left  of  a  private  pier  blown  away  by  a  hurricane  some  years  ago.  Nancy  had  been  alone  on  the  beach.  Behind  her,  the  boulevard  glittered  in  the  morning  sun  and  the  season's  traffic  rocked  by  the  long  curve  of  the  shore  in  clumps  of  breasting  speed.  She  stood  looking  outward  at  the  high  straight  dis-  tant  shelf  ofcloud.  The  islands  were  out  there,  plainly  visible.  The  walls  of  the  old  Civil  War  fort  on  the  nearest  one  of  them,  the  one  with  the  lighthouse-Ship  Island-were  plain  today  as  well.  She  had  been  out  there  once  this  summer  with  Rob  Acklen,  out  there  on  the  island,  where  the  reeds  grew  in  the  wild  white  sand,  and  the  water  teemed  so  thick  with  seaweed  that  only  crazy  peo-  ple  would  have  tried  to  swim  in  it.  The  gulf  had  rushed  white  and  strong  through  all  the  seaweed,  frothing  up  the  beach.  On  the  beach,  the  froth  turned  brown,  the  color  of  softly  moving  craw-  fish  claws.  In  the  boat  coming  home  through  the  sunset  that  day,  a  boy  standing  up  in  the  pilothouse  played  &quot;Over  the  Waves&quot;  on  his  harmonica.  Rob  Acklen  had  put  his  jacket  around  Nancy's  shoulders-she  had  never  thought  to  bring  a  sweater.  The  jacket  swallowed  her;  it  smelled  more  like  Rob  thanhe  did.  The  boat  moved,  the  breeze  blew,  the  sea  swelled,  all  to  the  lilt  of  themusic.  All  twenty-five  mem-  bers  of  the  Laurel,  [REDACTED],  First  Baptist  Church  Adult  Bible  Class,  who  had  come  out  with  them  on  the  excur-  sion  boat,  and  to  whom  Rob  and  Nancy  had  yet  to  introduce  themselves,  had  stopped  giggling  and  making  their  silly  jokes.  They  were  tired,  and  stood  in  a  huddle  like  sheep;  they  were  shaped  like  sheep  as  well,  with  little  shoulders  and  wide  bottoms-it  was  somehow  sad.  Nancy  and  Rob,  young  and  trim,  stood  side  by  side  near  the  bow,  like  figure-  heads  of  the  boat,  hearing  the  music  and  watching  the  thick  prow  butt  the  swell,  which  thesunset  had  stained  a  deep  red.  Nancy  felt  for  certain  that  this  was  the  happiest  she  had  ever  been.  Alone  on  the  sand  this  morning,  she  had  spreadout  her  beach  towel  and  stood  for  a  moment  looking  up  the  beach,  way  up,  past  a  grove  of  live  oaks  to  where  Rob  Acklen's  house  was  visi-  ble.  He  would  be  standing  in  the  kitchen,  in  loafers  and  a  dirty  white  shirt  and  an  old  pair  of  shorts,  drinking  cold  beer  from  the  refrigerator  right  out  of  the  can.  He  would  eat  lunch  with  his  mother  and  sister,  read  the  paper  and  write  aletter,  then  dress  and  drive  into  town  to  help  his  father  in  the  office,  going  right  past  Nancy's  house  along  the  boulevard.  Around  three,  he  would  call  her  up.  He  did  this  every  day.  His  name  was  Fitzrobert  Conroy  Acklen-one  of  those  full-  blown  [REDACTED]  names.  Everybody  liked  him,  and  more  than  a  few-a  general  mixture  of  every  color,  size,  age,  sex,  and  religion-would  say,  when  he  passed  by,  &quot;I  declare,  I  just  love  that  boy.&quot;  So  he  was  bound  to  have  a  lot  of  nicknames:  &quot;Fitz&quot;  or  &quot;Bobbie&quot;  or  &quot;Cousin&quot;  or  &quot;Son&quot;-he  answered  to  almost  anything.  He  was  the  kind  of  boy  people  have  high,  undefined  hopes  for.  He  had  first  seen  Nancy  Lewis  one  morning  when  he  came  by  her  house  to  make  an  insurance  call  for  his  father.  Breaking  off  her  French-could  it  " b"have  been  the  sentence  about  &quot;Pofi-  cier&quot;?-she  had  gone  out  to  see  who  it  was.  She  was  expecting  Mrs.  Nattier,  their  neighbor,  who  had  skinny  white  freckled  legs  she  never  shaved  and  whose  husband,  &quot;off&quot;&quot;  somewhere,  was  thought  not  to  be  doing  well;  or  Mrs.  Nattier's  little  boy  Bernard,  who  thought  it  was  fun  to  hide  around  cor-  ners  after  dark  and  jump  out  saying  nothing  more  original  than  &quot;Boo!&quot;  (Once,  he  had  screamed  &quot;Raw  head  and  bloody  bones!,&quot;  but  Nancy  was  sure  somebody  had  told  him  to)  ;  or  one  of  the  neighbor  ladies  in  the  back-old  Mrs.  Poultney,  whom  they  rented  from  and  who  walked  with  a  cane,  or  Miss  Henriette  Dupr\xc3\xa9,  who  was  so  devout  she  didn't  even  have  to  go  to  confession  before  weekday  Communion  and  whose  hands,  always  tucked  up  in  the  sleeves  of  her  sack,  were  as  cold  as  church  can-  dles,  and  to  think  of  them  touching  you  was  like  rabbits  skipping  over  your  grave  on  dark  rainy  nights  in  winter  up  in  the  lonely  wet-leaf-covered  hills.  Or  else  it  was  somebody  wanting  to  be  paid  something.  Nancy  had  opened  the  door  and  looked  up,  and  there,  in-  stead  of  a  dozen  other  people,  was  Rob  Acklen.  Not  that  she  knew  his  name.  She  had  seen  boys  like  him  down  on  the  coast,  ever  since  her  family  had  moved  there  from  Little  Rock  back  in  the  spring.  She  had  seen  them  playing  tennis  on  the  courts  back  of  the  hotel,  where  she  sometimes  went  to  jump  on  the  tram-  poline.  She  believed  that  the  hotel  people  thought  she  was  on  the  staff  in  some  sort  of  way,  as  she  was  about  the  right  age  for  that-just  a  year  or  so  beyond  high  school  but  hardly  old  enough  to  work  in  town.  The  weather  was  already  getting  hot,  and  the  season  was  falling  off.  When  she  passed  the  courts,  going  and  coming,  she  saw  the  boys  out  of  the  corner  of  her  eye.  Were  they  really  so  much  taller  than  the  boys  up  where  they  had  moved  from,  up  in  [REDACTED]?  They  were  lankier  and  a  lot  more  casual.  They  were  more  assured,  To  Nancy,  whose  family  was  in  debt  and  whose  father,  in  one  job  after  another,  was  always  doing  some-  thing  wrong,  the  boys  playing  tennis  had  that  wonderful  remoteness  of  crea-  tures  to  be  admired  on  the  screen,  or  those  seen  in  whiskey  ads,  standing  near  the  bar  ofa  country  club  and  sleekly  talking  about  things  she  could  not  begin  to  imagine.  But  now  here  was  one,  in  a  heavy  tan  cotton  suit  and  a  light  blue  shirt  with  a  buttoned-  down  collar  and  dark  knit  tie,  standing  on  her  own  front  porch  and  smiling  at  her.     Yet  when  Rob  called  Nancy  for  a  date,  a  day  or  two  later,  she  didn't  have  to  be  told  that  he  did  it  partly  because  he  liked  to  do  nice  things  for  people.  He  obviously  liked  to  be  considerate  and  kind,  because  the  first  time  he  saw  her  he  said,  &quot;I  guess  you  don't  know  many  people  yet?&quot;  &quot;No,  because  Daddy  just  got  trans-  ferred,&quot;  she  said-&quot;transferred&quot;  being  her  mother's  word  for  it;  fired  was  what  it  was.  She  gave  him  a  Coke  and  talked  to  him  awhile,  standing  around  in  the  house,  which  unaccountably  continued  to  be  empty.  She  said  she  didn't  know  a  thing  about  insurance.  Now,  still  on  the  beach,  Nancy  Lewis  sat  down  in  the  middle  of  her  beachtowel  and  began  to  rub  suntan  lotion  on  her  neck  and  shoulders.  Look-  ing  down  the  other  way,  away  from  Rob's  house  and  toward  the  yacht  club,  she  saw  a  man  standing  alone  on  the  sand.  She  had  not  noticed  him  before.  He  was  facing  out  toward  thegulf  and  staring  fixedly  at  the  horizon.  He  was  wearing  shorts  and  a  shirt  made  out  of  red  bandanna,  with  the  tail  out-a  stout  young  man  with  black  hair.  Just  then,  without  warning,  it  began  to  rain.  There  were  no  clouds  one  could  see  in  the  overhead  dazzle,  but  it  rained  anyway;  the  drops  fell  in  huge  discs,  marking  the  sand,  and  splashing  on  Nancy's  skin.  Each  drop  seemed  enough  to  fill  aDixie  cup.  At  first,  Nancy  did  not  know  what  the  stinging  sensation  was;  then  she  knew  the  rain  was  burn-  ing  her.  It  was  scalding  hot!  Strange,  outlandish,  but  also  painful,  was  how  she  found  it.  She  jumped  up  and  began  to  flinch  and  twist  away,  trying  to  es-  cape,  and  a  moment  later  she  had  snatched  up  her  beach  towel  and  flung  it  around  her  shoulders.  But  the  large  hot  drops  kept  falling,  and  there  was  no  es-  cape  from  them.  She  started  rubbing  her  cheek  and  forehead  and  felt  that  she  " b"might  blister  all  over;  then,  since  it  kept  on  and  on  and  was  all  so  inexplicable,  she  grabbed  her  lotion  and  ran  up  the  beach  and  out  of  the  sand  and  back  across  the  boulevard.  Once  in  her  own  front  yard,  under  the  scraggy  trees,  she  felt  the  rain  no  longer,  and  looked  back  curiously  into  the  dazzle  beyond  the  boulevard.  &quot;I  thought  you  meant  to  stay  for  a  while,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;Was  it  too  hot?  Anybody  would  be  crazy  to  go  out  there  now.  There's  never  anybody  out  there  at  this  time  of  day.&quot;  &quot;It  was  all  right,&quot;  said  Nancy,  &quot;but  it  startedraining.  I  never  felt  anything  like  it.  The  rain  was  so  hot  it  burned  me.  Look.  My  face-&quot;  She  ran  to  look  in  the  mirror.  Sure  enough,  her  face  and  shoulders  looked  splotched.  It  might  blister.  I  might  be  scarred  for  life,  she  thought-one  of  those  dramatic  phrases  left  over  from  high  school.  Nancy's  mother,  Mrs.  Lewis,  was  a  discouraged  lady  whose  silky,  blondish-  gray  hair  was  always  slipping  loose  and  tagging  out  around  her  face.  She  would  not  try  to  improve  herself  and  talked  a  lot  in  company  about  her  family;  two  of  her  uncles  had  been  professors  simul-  tancously  at  the  University  of  43616e616461Carolina.  One  of  them  had  written  a  book  on  phonetics.  Mrs.  Lewis  seldom  found  anyone  who  had  heard  of  them,  or  of  the  book,  either.  Some  people  asked  what  phonetics  were,  and  others  did  not  ask  anything  at  all.  Mrs.  Lewis  now  said  to  her  daugh-  ter,  &quot;You  just  gottoo  much  sun.&quot;  &quot;No,  it  was  the  rain.  It  was  really  scalding  hot.&quot;  &quot;I  neverheard  of  such  a  thing,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;Out  of  a  clear  sky.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  help  that,&quot;  Nancy  said.  &quot;I  guess  I  ought  to  know.&quot;  Mrs.  Lewis  took  on  the  kind  of  look  she  had  when  she  would  open  the  hand-  kerchief  drawer  of  a  dresser  and  see  two  used,  slightly  bent  carpet  nails,  some  Scotch  Tape  melted  together,  an  old  receipt,  an  unanswered  letter  an-  nouncing  a  cousin's  wedding,  some  scratched  negatives  saved  for  someone  but  never  developed,  some  dusty  foreign  coins,  a  bank  deposit  book  from  a  town  they  lived  in  during  the  summer  before  Nancy  was  born,  and  an  old  telegram  whose  contents,  forgotten,  no  one  would  dare  now  to  explore,  for  it  would  say  something  awful  but  abso-  lutely  true.  &quot;Iwish  you  wouldn't  speak  to  me  like  that,&quot;  Mrs.  Lewis  said.  &quot;All  I  know  is,  it  certainly  didn't  rain  here.&quot;  Nancy  wandered  away,  into  the  dining  room.  She  felt  bad  about  ev-  erything-about  quarrelling  with  her mother,  about  not  getting  a  suntan,  about  wasting  her  time  all  summer  with  Rob  Acklen  and  not  learning  any  French.  She  went  and  took  a  long  cool  bath  in  the  big  old  bathroom,  where  the  bathtub  had  ball-and-claw  feet  painted  mustard  yellow  and  the  single  light  bulb  on  the  long  cord  dropped  down  one  mile  from  the  stratosphere.  What  the  Lewises  found  in  a  rented  house  was  always  outclassed  by  what  they  brought  into  it.  Nancy's  father,  for  instance,  had  a  china  donkey  that  bared  its  teeth  in  a  great  big  grin.  Written  on  one  side  was  &quot;If  you  really  want  to  look  like  me&quot;  and  on  the  other  &quot;Just  keep  right  on  talking.&quot;  Her  father  loved  the  donkey  and  its  message,  and  always  put  it  on  the  living-room  table  of  whatever  house  they  were  in.  When  he  got  a  drink  before  dinner  each  evening,  he  would  wander  back  with  glass  in  hand  and  look  the  donkey  over.  &quot;That's  pretty  good,&quot;  he  would  say  just  before  he  took  the  first  swallow.  Nancy  had  often  longed  to  break  the  donkey,  by  accident-that's  what  she  would  say,  that  it  had  all  been  an  accident-but  she  couldn't  get  over  the  feeling  that  if  she  did,  worse  things  than  the  Lewises  had  ever  imagined  would  happen  to  them.  That  donkey  would  let  in  a  flood  of  trouble,  that  she  knew.  After  Nancy  got  out  of  the  tub  and  dried,  she  rubbed  Jergens  Lotion  on  all  the  splotches  the  rain  had  made.  Then  she  ate  a  peanut-butter  sandwich  and  more  shrimp  salad  left  over  from  supper  the  night  before,  and  drank  a  cold  Coke.  Now  and  then,  eating,  she  would  go  look  in  the  mirror.  By  the  time  Rob  Acklen  called  up,  the  red  marks  had  all  but  disappeared.  HAT  night,  riding  down  to  Biloxi  with  Rob,  Nancy  confided  that  the  catalogue  of  people  she  disliked,  headed  by  Bernard  Nattier,  included  every  " b"single  person-Miss  Henriette  Dupr\xc3\xa9,  Mrs.  Poultney,  and  Mrs.  Nattier,  and  Mr.  Nattier,  too,  when  he  was  at  home-that  she  had  to  be  with  these  days.  It  even  included,  she  was  sad  to  say,  her  mother  and  father.  If  Bernard  Nattier  had  to  be  mean-and  it  was  clear  he  did  have  to-why  did  he  have  to  be  so  corny?  He  put  wads  of  wet,  chewed  bubble  gum  in  her  purses-that  was  the  most  original  thing  he  ever  did.  Otherwise,  it  was  just  live  crawfish  in  her  bed  or  crabs  in  her  shoes;  anybody  could  think  of  that.  And  when  he  stole,  he  took  things  she  wanted,  nothing  simple,  like  money-she  could  have  forgiven  him  for  that-but  cigarettes,  lipstick,  and  ashtrays  she  had  stolen  her-  self  here  and  there.  If  she  locked  her  door,  he  got  in  through  the  window;  if  she  locked  the  window,  she  suffocated.  Not  only  that,  but  he  would  crawl  out  from  under  the  bed.  His  eyes  were  slightly  crossed  and  he  knew  how  to  turn  the  lids  back  on  themselves  so  that  it  looked  like  blood,  and  then  he  would  chase  her.  He  was  browned  to  the  color  of  dirt  all  over  and  he  smelled  likesalt  mud  the  sun  had  dried.  He  wore  black  tennis  shoes  laced  too  tight  at  the  ankles  and  from  sunup  till  way  past  dark  he  never  thought  of  anything  but  what  to  do  to  Nancy,  and  she  would  have  liked  to  kill  him.  She  made  Rob  Acklen  laugh.  She  amused  him.  He  didn't  take  anything  Nancy  Lewis  could  say  at  all  toheart,  but,  as  if  she  was  something  he  had  found  on  the  beach  and  was  teaching  to  talk,  he,  with  his  Phi  Beta  Kappa  key  and  his  good  level  head  and  his  wonder-  ful  prospects,  found  everything  she  told  about  herself  cute,  funny,  absurd.  He  did  remark  that  he  had  such  feelings  himself  from  time  to  time-that  he  would  occasionally  get  crazy  mad  at  one  of  his  parents  or  the  other,  and  that  he  once  planned  his  sister's  murder  down  to  the  last  razor  slash,.  But  he  laughed  again,  and  his  chewing  gum  popped  amiably  in  his  jaws.  When  she  told  him  about  the  hot  rain,  he  said  he  didn't  believe  it.  He  said  &quot;Aw,&quot;  which  was  what  a  boy  like  Rob  Acklen  said  when  he  didn't  believe  something.  The  top  of  his  old  white  Mercury  converti-  ble  was  down  and  the  wind  rushed  past  like  an  endless  bolt  of  raw  silk  being  drawn  against  Nancy's  cheek.  In  the  ladies'-room  mirror  at  the  Beach  View,  where  they  stopped  to  eat,  she  saw  thebright  quality  of  her  eyes,  as  though  she  had  been  drinking.  Her  skirts  rustled  in  the  narrow  room;  a  porous  white  disc  of  deodorant  hung  on  a  hook,  fuming  the  air.  Her  eyes,  though  blue,  looked  startlingly  dark  in  her  pale  skin,  for  though  she  tried  hard  all  the  time,  she  never  seemed  to  tan.  All  the  sun  did,  as  her  mother  was  al-  ways  pointing  out,  was  bleach  her  hair  three  shades  lighter;  a  little  more  and  it  would  be  almost  white.  Out  on  the  island  that  day,  out  on  Ship  Island,  she  had  drifted  in  the  water  like  seaweed,  with  the  tide  combing  her  limbs  and  hair,  tugging  her  through  lengths  of  fuzzy  water  growth.  She  had  lain  flat  on  her  face  with  her  arms  stretched  out  before  her,  experiencing  the  curious  lift  the  water's  motion  gave  to  the  tentacles  of  weed,  wondering  whether  she  liked  it  or  not.  Did  something  alive  clam-  ber  the  small  of  her  back?  Did  some-  thing  wishful  grope  the  spiral  of  her  ear?  Rob  had  caught  her  wrist  hard  and  waked  her-waked  was  what  he  did,  though  to  sleep  in  water  is  not  pos-  sible.  He  said  he  thought  she  had  been  there  too  long.  &quot;Nobody  can  keep  their  " b" face  in  the  water  that  long,&quot;  was  what  he  said.  &quot;I  did,&quot;  said  Nancy.  Rob's  brow  had  been  blistered  a  lit-  tle,  she  recalled,  for  that  had  been  back  early  in  the  summer,  soon  after  they  had  met-but  the  changes  the  sun  made  on  him  went  without  particular  attention.  The  seasons  here  were  old  ground  to  him.  He  said  that  the  island  was  new,  however-or  at  least  forgotten.  He  said  he  had  never  been  there  but  once,  and  that  many  years  ago,  on  a  Boy  Scout  picnic.  Soon  they  were  exploring  the  fort,  reading  the  dates  off  the  metal  signs  whose  letters  glowed  so  smoothly in  the  sun,  and  the  brief  summaries  of  what  those  little  boys,  little  military-  academy  boys  turned  into  soldiers,  had  endured.  Not  old  enough  to  fill  up  the  name  of  soldier,  or  ofprisoner,  either,  which  is  what  they  weree-not  old  enough  to  shave,  Nancy  bet-still,  they  had  died  there,  miserably  far  from  home,  and  had  been  buried  in  the  sand.  There  was  a  lot  more.  Rob  would  have  been  glad  to  read  all  about  it,  but  she  wasn't  interested.  What  they  knew  al-  ready  was  plenty,  just  about  those  boys.  A  bright,  worried  lizard  ran  out  of  a  hot  rubble  of  brick.  They  came  out  of  the  fort  and  walked  alone  together  east-     ward  toward  the  dunes,  now  skirting  near  the  shore  that  faced  the  sound  and  now  wandering  south,  where  they  could  hear  or  sometimes  glimpse  the  gulf.  They  were  overlooked  all  the  way  by  an  old  white  lighthouse.  From  far  away  behind,  the  twenty-five  members  of  the  Adult  Bible  Class  could  be  over-  heard  playing  a  silly,  shrill  Sunday-  school  game.  It  came  across  the  ruins  of  the  fort  and  the  sad  story  of  the  dead  soldiers  like  something  that  had  hap-  pened  long  ago  that  you  could  not  quite  remember  having  joined  in.  On  the  beach  to  their  right,  toward  the  gulf,  a  flockof  sandpipers  with  blinding-white  breasts  stepped  pecking  along  the  water's  edge,  and  on  the  inner  beach,  toward  the  sound,  a  wrecked  sailboat  with  a  broken  mast  lay  half  buried  in  the  sand.  Rob  kept  teasing  her  along,  pulling  at  the  soft  wool  strings  of  her  bathing  suit,  which  knotted  at  the  nape  and  again  under  her  shoul-  der  blades,  worrying  loose  the  damp  hair  that  she  had  carefully  slicked  back  and  pinned.  &quot;There  isn't  anybody  in  that  house,&quot;he  as-  sured  her,  some  minutes  later,  having  explored  most  of  that  part  of  the  island  and  almost  as  much  of  Nancy  as  well,  having  almost,  but  not  quite-his  arms  around  her-coaxed  and  ca-  ressed  her  down  to  ground  level  in  a  clump  of  reeds.  &quot;There  hasn't  been  in  years  and  years,&quot;  he  said,  encour-  aging  her.  &quot;It's  only  those  pic-  nic  people,&quot;  she  said,  holding  off,  for  the  reeds  would  not  have  concealed  a  medium-  sized  mouse.  They  had  been  to  look  at  the  sail-  boat  and  thought  about  climbing  inside  (kissing  closely,  they  had  almost  fallen  right  over  into  it),  but  it  did  have  a  rotten  tin  can  in  the  bottom  and  smelled,  so  here  they  were  back  out  in  the  dunes.  &quot;They've  got  to  drink  all  those  Coca-  " b"Colas,&quot;  Rob  said,  &quot;and  give  out  all  those  prizes,  and  anyway-&quot;'  She  never  learned  anyway  what,  but  it  didn't  matter.  Maybe  she  began  to  make  up  all  that  the  poor  little  soldiers  had  missed  out  on.  The  island's  very  spine,  a  warm  reach  of  thin  ground,  came  smoothly  up  into  the  arch  of  her  back;  and  it  was  at  least  halfway  the  day  itself,  with  its  fair,  wide-open  eyes,  that  she  went  over  to.  She  felt  some-  what  historical  afterward,  as  though  they  had  themselves  added  one  more  mark  to  all  those  that  place  remem-  bered.  Having  played  all  the  games  and  given  out  the  prizes,  having  eaten  all  the  homemade  cookies  and  drunk  the  case  of  soft  drinks  just  getting  warm,  and  gone  sightseeing  through  the  fort,  the  Bible  Class  was  now  coming,  too,  crying  &quot;Yoohoo!,&quot;  to  explore  the  is-  land.  They  discovered  Rob  hurling  shells  and  bits  of  rock  into  the  surf,  while  Nancy,  scavenging  a  little  dis-  tance  away,  tugged  up  out  of  the  sand  a  shell  so  extraordinary  it  was  worth  showing  around.  It  was  purple,  pink,  and  violet  inside-a  palace  of  colors;  the  king  of  the  oysters  had  no  doubt  lived  there.  When  she  held  it  shyly  out  to  them,  they  cried  &quot;Look!&quot;  and  &quot;O00,&quot;  so  there  was  no  need  for  talk-  ing  to  them  much  at  all,  and  in  the  meantime  the  evening  softened,  the  wa-  ter  glowed,  the  glare  dissolved.  Far  out,  there  were  other  islands  one  could  see  now,  and  beyond  those  must  be  many  more.  They  had  been  there  all  along.  Going  home,  Nancy  gave  the  won-  derful  shell  to  the  boy  who  stood  in  the  pilothouse  playing  &quot;Over  the  Waves.&quot;  She  glanced  back  as  they  walked  off  up  the  pier  and  sawhim  look  at  the  shell,  try  it  for  weight,  and  then  throw  it  in  the  water,  leaning  far  back  on  his  arm  and  putting  a  good  spin  on  the  throw,  the  way  boys  like  to  do-the  wayRob  Acklen  himself  had  been  do-  ing,  too,  just  that  afternoon.  &quot;Why  did  you  do  that?&quot;  Rob  had  demanded.  He  was  frowning;  he  looked  angry.  He  had  thought  they  should  keep  the  shell-to  remember,  she  sup-  posed.  &quot;For  the  music,&quot;  she  explained.  &quot;But  it  was  ours,&quot;  he  said.  When  she  didn't  answer,  he  said  again,  &quot;Why  did  you,  Nancy?&quot;  But  still  she  didn't  answer.  HEN  Nancy  returned  to  their  table  at  the  Beach  View,  having  put  her  lipstick  back  straight  after  eating  fish,  Rob  was  paying  the  check.  &quot;Why  not  believe  me?&quot;  she  asked  him.  &quot;It  was  true.  The  rain  was  hot  as  fire.  I  " b"thought  I  would  be  scarred  for  life.&quot;  It  was  still  broad  daylight,  not  even  twilight.  In  the  bright,  air-conditioned  restaurant,  the  light  from  the  water  glazed  flatly  against  the  broad  picture  windows,  the  chandeliers,  and  the  glass-  es.  It  was  the  hour  when  mirrors  reflect  nothing  and  bars  look  tired,  The  restau-  rant  was  a  boozy,  cheap  sort  of  place  with  a  black-lined  gambling  hall  in  the  back,  but  everyone  went  there  because  the  food  was  good.  &quot;You're  just  like  Mama,  &quot;You  think  I  made  it  up.&quot;  Rob  said,  teasing,  &quot;I  didn't  say  that.  I  justsaid  I  didn't  believe  it.&quot;  He  loved  getting  her  caught  in  some  sort  of  logic  she  couldn't  get  out  of.  When  he  opened  the  door  for  her,  she  got  a  good  sidelong  view  of  his  longlsh  firm  face  andsaw  the  way  his  somewhat  fine  brows  arched  up  with  one  or  two  bright  reddish  hairs  in  among  the  dark  ones;  his  hair  was  that  way,  too,  when  the  sun  hit  it.  Maybe,  if  nobody  had  told  him,  he  wouldn't  have  known  it;  he  seemed  not  to  notice  so  very  much  about  himself.  Having  the  confidence  of  people  who  don't  worrymuch,  his  grin  could  snare  her  instantly-a  glance  alone  could  make  her  feel  how  lucky  she  was  he'd  ever  noticed  her.  But  it  didn't  do  at  all  to  think  about  him  now.  It  would  be  ages  before  they  made  it  through  the  evening  and  back,  retracing  the  way  and  then  turning  off  to  the  bayou,  and  even  then,  there  would  be  those  mosquitoes.  Bayou  lovemaking  suited  Rob  just  fine;  he  was  one  of  those  people  mosqui-  toes  didn't  bite.  They  certainly  bit  Nancy.  They  were  huge  and  silent,  and  the  minute  the  car  stopped  they  would  even  come  and  sit  upon  her  eye-  lids,  if  she  closed  her  eyes,  a  dozen  to  each  tender  arc  of  flesh.  They  would  gather  on  her  face,  around  her  nose  and  mouth.  Clothhke  like  rags  and  tatters,  like  large  dry  ashes  of  burnt  cloth,  they  came  in  lazy  droves,  in  fleets,  sailing  on  the  air.  They  were  never  in  any  hurry,  being  everywhere  at  once  and  always  ready  to  bite.  Nancy  had  been  known  to  jump  all  the  way  out  of  thecar  and  go  stamping  across  the  grass  like  a  calf.  She  grew  sulky  and  despairing  and  stood  on  one  leg  at  a  time  in  the  moonlight,  slapping  at  her  ankles,  while  Rob  leaned  his  chin  on  the  doorframe  and  watched  her  with  his  af-  fectionate,  total  interest.  Nancy,  riddled  and  stinging  with  beads  of  actual  blood  briar-pointed  here  and  there  upon  her,  longed  to  be  almost  anywhere  else-she  especially  longed  for  New  Orleans.  She  always  talked  about  it,  although,  never  having  been" b"there,  she  had  to  say  the  things  that  other  people  said-food  and  jazz  in  the  French  Quarter,  beer  and  crabs  out  on  Lake  Pontchartrain.  Rob  said  vaguely  they  would  go  sometime.  But  she  could  tell  that  things  were  wrong  for  him  at  this  point.  &quot;The  food's  just  as  good  around  here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  Rob!&quot;  She  knew  it  wasn't  so.  She  could  feel  that  city,  hanging  just  over  the  horizon  from  them  scarcely  fifty  miles  away,  like  some  swollen  bronze  moon,  at  once  brilliant  and  shadowy  and  drenched  in  every  sort  of  amplified  smell.  Rob  was  stroking  her  hair,  and  in  time  his  repeated,  gentle  touch  gained  her  attention.  It  seemed  to  tell  what  he  liked-girls  all  spanking  clean,  with  scrubbed  fingernails,  wear-  ing  shoes  still  damp  with  white  shoe  polish.  Even  a  fresh  gardenia  stuck  in  their  hair  wouldn't  be  too  much  for  him.  There  would  be  all  sorts  of  differ-  ences,  to  him,  between  Ship  Island  and  the  French  Quarter,  but  she  did  not  have  much  idea  just  what  they  were.  Nancy  took  all  this  in,  out  of  his  hand  on  her  head.  She  decided  she  had  better  not  talk  anymore  about  New  Orleans.  Shewriggledaround,  looking  out  over  his  shoulder,  through  the  moonlight,  toward  where  the  pitch-black  surface  of  the  bayouwater  showed  in  patches  through  the  trees.  'The  trees  were  awful,  hung  with  great  spooky  gray  tatters  of  Spanish  moss.  Nancy  was  re-  minded  ofthe  house  she  and  her  family  were  living  in  ;  it  had  recently  occurred  to  her  that  the  peculiar  smell  it  had  must  come  from  some  Spanish  moss  that  had  got  sealed  in  behind  the  panelling,  between  the  walls.  The  moss  was  alive  in  there  and  growing,  and  that  was  where  she  was  going  to  seal  Bernard  Nattier  up  someday,  for  him  to  see  how  it  felt.  She  had  tried  to  kill  him  once,  by  filling  her  purse  with  rocks  and  oyster  shells-the  roughest  she  could  find.  She  had  read  somewhere  that  this  weapon  was  effective  for  ladies  in  case  of  attack.  But  he  had  ducked  when  she  swung  the  purse  at  him,  and  she  had  only  gone  spinning  round  and  round,  falling  at  last  into  a  camellia  tree,  which  had  scratched  her.  ...  ''The  Skeltons  said  for  us  to  stop  by  there  for  a  drink,&quot;  Rob  toldher.  They  were  driving  again,  and  the  car  was  back  on  the  boulevard,  in  the  still  sur-  prising  daylight.  &quot;What  did  you  say?&quot;  he  asked  her.  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  &quot;You  just  don't  want  to  go?&quot;  &quot;&quot;No,  I  don't  much  want  to  go.&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,  we  won't  stay  long.&quot;  The  Skelton  house  was  right  on  the  water,  with  asecond-story,  glassed-in, " b"air-conditioned  living  room  looking  out  over  the  sound.  The  sofas  and  chairs  were  covered  with  gold-and-white  striped  satin,  and  the  room  was  full  of  Rob's  friends.  Lorna  Skelton,  who  had  been  Rob's  girl  the  summer  before  and  who  dressed  so  beautifully,  was  handing  drinks  round  and  saying,  &quot;So  which  is  your  favorite  bayou,  Rob?&quot;  She  had  a  sort  of  fake  &quot;good  sport&quot;  tone  of  voice  and  wanted  to  appear  ready  for  any-  thing.  (Being  so  determined  to  be  nice  around  Nancy,  she  was  going  to  fall  right  over  backward  one  day.)  &quot;Do  I  have  to  have  a  favorite?&quot;  Rob  asked.  &quot;They  all  look  good  to  me.  Full  of  slime  and  alligators.&quot;  &quot;I  should  have  asked  Nancy.&quot;  &quot;'They're  all  full  of  mosquitoes,&quot;  Nancy  said,  hoping  that  was  O.K.  for  an  answer.  She  thought  that  virgins  were  awful  people.  &quot;Trapped,  boy!&quot;  Turner  Car-  michael  said  to  Rob,  and  banged  him  on  the  shoulder.  Turner  wanted  to  be  a  writer,  so  he  thought  it  was  all  right  to  tell  people  about  themselves.  &quot;Women  will  be  your  downfall,  Acklen,.  Nancy,  honey,  you  haven't  spoken  to  the  General.&quot;  Old  General  Skelton,  Lorna's  grand-  father,  sat  in  the  corner  of  the  living  room  near  the  mantel,  drinking  a  Scotch  highball.  You  had  to  shout  at  him.  &quot;How's  the  election  eral?&quot;  Turner  asked.  &quot;Election?  Election?  tion?  Oh,  the  election!  Well-&quot;  He  lowered  his  voice,  confidentially.  As  with  most  deaf  people,  his  tone  went  to  extremes.  &quot;There's  no  question  of  it.  The  one  we  want  is  the  one  we  know.  Know  Houghman's  father.  Knew  his  grandfather.  His  stand  is  the  same,  identical  one  that  we  are  all  accustomed  to.  On  every  subject-this  race  thing  especially.  Very  dangerous  now.  Ex-  tremely  touchy.  But  Houghman-ab-  solute!  Never  experiment,  never  ques-  tion,  never  turn  back.  These  perilous  times.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  [REDACTED];  said  Turner,  nodding  in  an  earnestly  false  way,  which  was  better  than  theearnestly  impressed  way  a  younger  boy  at  the  General's  elbow  shouted,  &quot;General  Skelton,  that's  just  what  my  daddy  says!&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  said  the  old  man,  sipping  Scotch.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  it's  true.  And  you,  Missy?&quot;  he  thundered  suddenly  at  Nancy,  making  her  jump.  &quot;Are  you  just  visiting  here?&quot;  &quot;Why,  Granddaddy,&quot;  Lorna  ex-  plained,  joining  them,  &quot;Nancy  lives  here  now.  You  know  Nancy.  &quot;'Then  why  isn't  she  tan?&quot;  the  old " b"man  continued.  &quot;Why  so  pale  and  wan,  fair  nymph?&quot;  &quot;Were  you  a  nymph?&quot;  Turner  asked.  &quot;All  this  time?&quot;  &quot;For  me  I'm  dark,&quot;  Nancy  ex-  plained,  but  this  awkward  way  of  putting  it  proved  more  than  General  Skelton  could  hear,  even  after  three  shoutings.  Turner  Carmichael  said,  &quot;We  used  to  have  this  crazy  colored  girl  who  went  around  saying,  'I'se  really  white,  'cause  all  my  chillun  is,  &quot;  and  of  course  that  was  what  General  Skelton  picked  to  hear.  &quot;Party's  getting  rough,&quot;  he  com-  plained.  &quot;Granddaddy,&quot;  Lorna  cried,  gig-  gling,  &quot;you  don't  understand!&quot;  &quot;Don't  I?&quot;  said  theold  gentleman.  &quot;Well,  maybe  I  don't.&quot;  &quot;Here,  Nancy,  come  help  me,&quot;  said  Lorna,  leading  her  guest  toward  the  kitchen.  On  the  way,  Nancy  heard  Rob  ask  Turner,  &quot;Just  where  did  you  have  this  colored  girl,  did  you  say?&quot;  &quot;Don't  be  a  dope.  I  said  she  worked  for  us.&quot;  &quot;Aren't  they  a  scream?&quot;  Lorna  said,  dragging  a  quart  bottle  of  soda  out  of  the  refrigerator.  &quot;I  thank  God  every  night  Granddaddy's  deaf.  You  know,  he  was  in  the  First  World  War  and  killed  I  don't  know  how  many  Ger-  mans,  and  he  still  can't  stand  to  hear  what  he  calls  loose  talk  before  a  lady.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  he  was  in  the  Civil  War,&quot;  said  Nancy,  and  then  of  course  she  knew  that  that  was  the  wrong  thing  and  that  Lorna,  who  just  for  an  instant  gave  her  a  glance  less  than  polite,  was  not  going  to  forget  it.  The  fact  was,  Nancy  had  never  thought  till  that  minute  which  war  General  Skelton  had  been  in.  She  hadn't  thought  because  she  didn't  care.  It  had  grown  dark  by  now,  and  through  the  kitchen  windows  Nancy  could  see  that  the  moon  had  risen-a  moon  in  the  clumsy  stage,  swelling  be-  tween  three-quarters  and  full,  yet  pour-  ing  out  light  on  the  water.  Its  rays  were  bursting  against  a  long  breakwater  of  concrete  slabs,  the  remains  of  what  the  hurricane  had  shattered.  After  saying  such  a  fool  thing,  Nancy  felt  she  could  not  stay  in  that  kitchen  another  minute  with  Lorna,  so  she  asked  where  she  could  go  and  comb  her  hair,.  Lorna  showed  her  down  a  hall-  way,  kindly  switching  the  lights  on.  The  Skeltons'  bathroom  was  all  pale  blue  and  white,  with  handsome  jars  of  rose  bath  salts  and  big  fat  scented  bars  of  rosy  soap.  The  lights  came  on  im-  pressively  and  the  fixtures  were  heavy,  yet  somehow  it  all  looked  dead.  It  came  to  Nancy  that  she  had  really  been  won-  " b"dering  about  just  what  would  be  in  this  sort  of  bathroom  ever  since  she  had  seen  those  boys,  with  maybe  Rob  among  them,  playing  tennis  while  she  jumped  on  the  trampoline.  Surely  the  place  had  the  air  of  an  inner  shrine,  but  what  was  there  to  see?  'The  tops  of  all  the  bot-  tles  fitted  firmly  tight,  and  the  soap  in  the  tub  was  dry.  Somebody  had  picked  it  all  out-that  was  the  point-judging  soap  and  bath  salts  just  the  way  they  judged  outsiders,  business,  real  estate,  politics.  Nancy's  father  made  judg-  ments,  too.  Once,  he  argued  all  evening  that  Hitler  was  a  well-meaning  man;  another  time,  he  said  the  world  was  ready  for  the  Communists.  You  could  tell  he  was  judging  wrong,  because  he  didn't  have  a  bathroom  like  this  one.  Nancy's  face  in  the  mirror  resembled  a  flower  in  a  room  that  was  too  warm.  When  she  went  out  again,  they  had  started  dancing  a  little-a  sort  of  friendly  shifting  around  before  the  big  glass  windows  overlooking  the  sound.  General  Skelton's  chair  was  empty;  he  was  gone.  Down  below,  Lorna's  par-  ents  could  be  heard  coming  in;  her  mother  called  upstairs.  Her  father  ap-  peared  and  shook  hands  all  around.  Mrs.  Skelton  soon  followed  him.  He  was  wearing  a  white  jacket,  and  she  had  on  a  silver  cocktail  dress  with  silver  shoes.  They  looked  like  people  in  magazines.  Mrs.  Skelton  held  a  crystal  platter  of  things  toeat  in  one  hand,  with  a  lace  handkerchief  pressed  between  the  flesh  and  the  glass  in  an  inevitable  sort  of  way.  In  a  moment,  when  the  faces,  talk-  ing  and  eating,  the  music,  the  talk,  and  the  dancing  swam  to  a  still  point  before  Nancy's  eyes,  she  said,  &quot;You  must  all  come  to  my  house  next  week.  We'll  have  a  party.&quot;  A  silence  fell.  Everyone  knew  where  Nancy  lived,  in  that  little  cluster  of  old  run-down  houses  the  boulevard  swept  by.  They  knew  that  her  house,  especially,  needed  paint  outside  and  fur-  niture  inside.  Her  daddy  drank  too  much,  and  through  her  dress  they  could  perhaps  clearly  discern  the  pin  that  held  her  slip  together.  Maybe,  since  they  knew  everything,  they  could  look  right  through  the  walls  ofthe  house  and  see  her  daddy's  donkey.  &quot;Sure  we  will,&quot;  said  Rob  Acklen  at  once.  &quot;I  think  that  would  be  grand.&quot;  &quot;Sure  we  will,  Nancy,&quot;  said  Lorna  Skelton,  who  was  such  a  good  sport  and  who  was  not  seeing  Rob  this  summer.  &quot;A  party?&quot;  said  Turner  Carmichael,  and  swallowed  a  whole  anchovy.  &quot;Can  I  come,  too?&quot;  Oh,  dear  Lord,  Nancy  was  wonder-  ing,  what  made  me  say  it?  Then  she" b"was  on  the  stairs  with  her  knees  shaking,  leaving  the  party,  leaving  with  Rob  to  go  down  to  Biloxi,  where  the  two  of  them  always  went,  and  hearing  the  right  things  said  to  her  and  Rob,  and  smiling  back  at  the  right  things  but  longing  to  jump  offinto  the  dark  as  if  it  were  water.  The  dark,  with  the  moon  mixed  in  with  it,  seemed  to  her  like  good  deep  water  to  go  off  in.  SHE  might  have  known  that  in  the  Marine  Room  of  the  Buena  Vista,  down  in  Biloxi,  they  would  run  into  more  friends  of  Rob's.  They  always  ran  into  somebody,  and  she  might  have  known.  These  particular  ones  had  al-  ready  arrived  and  were  even  waiting  for  Rob,  being  somewhat  bored  in  the  process.  It  wasn't  that  Rob  was  so  bright  and  witty,  but  he  listened  and  liked  everybody;  he  saw  them  the  way  they  likedto  be  seen.  So  then  they  would  go  on  to  new  heights,  outdoing  themselves,  coming  to  believe  how  marvellous  they  really  were.  Two  fraternity  brothers  of  his  were  there  tonight.  They  were  sitting  at  a  table  with  their  dates-two  tiny  girls  with  tiny  voices,  like  mosquitoes.  They  at  once  asked  Nancy  where  she  went  to  college,  but  before  she  could  reply  and  give  it  away  that  her  school  so  far  had  been  only  a  cow  college  up  in  [REDACTED]  and  that  she  had  gone  there  because  her  daddy  couldn't  afford  anywhere  else,  Rob  broke  in  and  answered  for  her.  &quot;She's  been  in  a  finishing  school  in  Little  Rock,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  I'm  trying  totalk  her  into  going  to  the  university.&quot;  Then  the  girls  and  their  dates  all  four  spoke  together.  'They  said,  &quot;Great!&quot;  &quot;Now  watch,&quot;  said  one  of  the  lit-  tle  girls,  whose  name  was  Teenie.  &quot;Cootie's  getting  out  that  little  ole  rush  book.&quot;  Sure  enough,  the  tiniest  little  note-  book  came  out  of  the  little  cream  silk  bag  ofthe  other  girl,  who  was  called  Cootie,  and  in  it  Nancy's  name  and  address  were  written  down  with  a  sliver  of  a  gold  pencil.  The  whole  rou-  tine  was  a  fake,  buta  kind  fake,  as  long  as  Rob  was  there.  The  minute  those  two  got  her  into  the  ladies'  room  it  would  turn  into  another  thing  altogether;  that  she  knew.  Nancy  knew  all  about  mos-  quitoes.  They'll  sting  me  till  I  crumple  up  and  die,  she  thought,  and  what  will  they  ever  care?  So,  when  the  three  of  them  did  leave  the  table,  she  stopped  to  straighten  the  strap  of  her  shoe  at  the  door  to  the  ladies'  room  and  let  them  go  on  through,  talking  on  and  on  to  one  another  about  Rush  Week.  Then  she  went  down  a  corridor  and  around  a  " b"corner  and  down  a  short  flight  of  steps.  She  ran  down  a  long  basement  hall-  way  where  the  service  quarters  were,  past  linen  closets  and  cases  of  soft  drinks,  and,  turning  another  corner  and  trying  a  door  above  a  stairway,  she  came  out,  as  she  thought  she  would,  in  a  night-club  place  called  the  Fishnet,  far  away  in  the  wing.  It  was  a  good  place  to  hide;  she  and  Rob  had  been  there  often.  I  can  make  up  some  sort  of  story  later,  she  thought,  and  crept  up  on  the  last  barstool.  Up  above  the  bar,  New  Orleans-style  (or  so  they  said),  a  man  was  pumping  tunes  out  of  an  electric  organ.  He  wore  rings  on  his  chubby  fingers  and  kept  a  handkerchief  near  him  to  mop  his  brow  and  to  swab  his  triple  chins  with  between  songs.  He  waved  his  hand  at  Nancy.  &quot;Where's  Rob,  honey?&quot;  he  asked.  She  smiled  but  didn't  answer.  She  kept  her  head  back  in  the  shadows.  She  wished  only  to  be  like  another  glass  in  the  sparkling  row  of  glasses  lined  up  before  thebig  gleam  of  mirrors  and  un-  der  the  play  of  lights.  What  made  me  say  that  about  a  party,  she  kept  wonder-  ing.  To  some  people  it  would  be  noth-  ing,  nothing.  But  not  to  her.  She  fumbled  in  her  bag  for  a  cigarette.  In-  advertently,  she  drank  from  a  glass  near  her  hand.  The  man  sitting  next  to  her  smiled  at  her.  &quot;I  didn't  want  it  any-  way,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Oh,  I  didn't  mean-&quot;  she  began.  &quot;I'll  order  one.&quot;  Did  you  pay  now!?  She  rummaged  in  her  bag.  But  the  man  said  &quot;What'll  it  be?&quot;  and  ordered  for  her.  &quot;Come  on  now,  take  it  easy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What's  your  name'?  &quot;Nothing,&quot;  she  said,  by  accident.  She  had  meant  to  say  Nancy,  but  the  man  seemed  to  think  it  was  funny.  &quot;Nothing  what?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Or  is  it  by  any  chance  Miss  Nothing?  I  used  to  know  a  large  family  of  Nothings,  over  in  Mobile.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  meant  to  say  Nancy.&quot;  &quot;Nancy  Nothing.  Is  that  it?&quot;  Another  teaser,  she  thought.  She  looked  away  from  his  eyes,  which  glit-  tered  like  metal,  and  what  she  saw  across  the  room  made  her  uncertainties  vanish.  She  felt  her  whole  self  settle  and  calm  itself.  Theman  she  had  seen  that  morning  on  the  beach  wearing  a  red  bandanna  shirt  and  shorts  was  stand-  ing  near  the  back  of  the  Fishnet,  look-  ingon.  Now  he  was  wearing  a  white  dinner  jacket  and  a  black  tie,  with  a  red  cummerbund  over  his  large  stom-  ach,  but  he  was  unmistakably  the  same  man.  At  that  moment,  he  positively  seemed  to  Nancy  to  be  her  own  identi-     ty.  She  jumped  up  and  left  the  teasing " b"man  at  the  bar  and  crossed  the  room.  &quot;Remember  me?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  saw  you  on  the  beach  this  morning.&quot;  &quot;Sure  I  do.  You  ran  off  when  it  started  to  rain.  I  had  to  run,  too.&quot;  &quot;Why  did  you?&quot;  Nancy  asked,  growing  happier  every  minute  &quot;Because  the  rain  was  so  hot  it  burnt  me.  If  I  could  roll  up  my  sleeve,  'd  show  you  the  blisters  on  my  arm.&quot;  &quot;I  believe  you.  I  had  some,  too,  but  they  went  away.&quot;  She  smiled,  and  the  man  smiled  back.  The  feeling  was  that  they  would  be  friends  forever.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  the  man  said  after  a  while.  &quot;'There's  a  fellow  here  you've  got  to  meet  now.  He's  out  on  the  veranda,  because  it's  too  hot  in  here.  Anyway,  he  gets  tired  just  with  me.  Now,  you  come  \xc2\xbb&gt;  on.  NANCY  Lewis  was  always  conscious  of  what  she  had  left  behind  her.  She  knew  that  right  now  her  parents  and  old  Mrs.  Poultney,  with  her  rent  collector's  jaw,  and  Miss  Henriette  Du-  pr\xc3\xa9,  with  her  religious  calf  eyes,  and  the  Nattiers,  mother  and  son,  were  all  sit-  ting  on  the  back  porch  in  the  half-light,  passing  the  bottle  of  6-12  around,  and  probably  right  now  discussing  the  fact  that  Nancy  was  out  with  Rob  again.  She  knew  that  when  her  mother  thought  of  Rob  her  heart  turned  beau-  tiful  and  radiant  as  a  seashell  on  a  spring  night.  Her  father,  both  at  home  and  at  his  office,  took  his  daughter's  going  out  with  Rob  as  a  means  of  saying  some-  thing  disagreeable  about  Rob's  father,  who  was  a  big  insurance  man.  'There  was  always  some  talk  about  how  Mr.  Acklen  had  trickily  got  out  of  the  bulk  of  his  hurricane-damage  payments,  the  same  as  all  the  other  insurance  men  had  done.  Nancy's  mother  was  probably  re-  sponding  to  such  a  charge  at  this  mo-  ment.  &quot;Now,  you  don't  know  that's  true,&quot;  she  would  say.  But  old  Mrs.  Poultney  would  sayshe  knew  it  was  true  with  Aer  insurance  company  (implying  that  she  knew  but  wouldn't  say  about  the  Acklen  company,  too).  Half  the  house  she  was  renting  to  the  Lewises  had  blown  right  off  it-all  one  wing-  and  the  upstairs  bathroom  was  ripped  in  two,  and  you  could  see  the  wallpapered  walls  of  all  the  rooms,  and  the  bath-  tub,  with  its  pipes  still  attached,  had  got  blown  into  the  telephone  wires.  If  Mrs.  Poultney  had  got  what  insurance  money  had  been  coming  to  her,  she  would  have  torn  down  this  house  and  built  a  new  one.  And  Mrs.  Nattier  would  say  that  there  was  something  terrible  to  her  about  seeing  wallpapered  rooms  ex-  posed  that  way.  And  Miss  Henriette  Dupr\xc3\xa9  would  say  that  the  Dupr\xc3\xa9  house  " b"had  come  through  it  all  ab-so-lootly  intact,  meaning  that  the  Dupr\xc3\xa9s  had  been  foresighted  enough  to  get  some  sort  of  special  heavenly  insurance,  and  she  would  be  just  longing  to  embark  j  on  explaining  how  they  came  by  it,  and  she  would,  too,  given  a  tenth  of  a  chance.  And  all  the  time  this  went  on,  Nancy  could  see  into  the  Acklens'  house  justas  clearly-see  the  Acklens  sitting  _  inside  their  sheltered  game  room  after  dinner,  bathed  in  those  soft  bug-repel-  lent  lights.  And  what  were  the  Acklens  saying  (along  with  their  kind  of  talk  about  their  kind  of  money)  but  that  they  certainly  hoped  Rob  wasn't  serious  about  that  girl?  Nothing  had  to  matter  if  he  wasn't  serious.  ...  Nancy  could  circle  around  all  of  them  in  her  mind.  She  couldpeer  into  windows,  overhear-  \\|  ing;  it  was  the  only  way  she  could  ;  look  at  people.  No  human  in  the  whole  human  world  seemed  to  her  exactly  made  for  her  to  stand  in  front  of  and  look  squarely  in  the  eye,  the  way  she  could  look  Bernard  Nattier  in  the  eye  (he  not  being  a  human,  either)  before  taking  careful  aim  to  be  sure  not  to  miss  him  with  a  purseful  of  rocks  and  oyster  shells,  or  the  way  she  could  look  this  big  man  in  the  red  cummerbund  in  the  eye,  being  convinced  already  that  he  waswhat  her  daddy  called  a  &quot;natu-  ral.&quot;  Her  daddy  liked  to  come  across  people  he  could  call  that,  because  it  made  him  feel  superior.  As  the  big  man  steered  her  through  -|  the  crowded  room,  threading  among  the  tables,  going  out  toward  the  veran-  da,  he  was  telling  her  his  life  story  all  along  the  way.  It  seemed  that  his  father  was  a  terribly  rich  Yankee  who  paid  him  not  to  stayat  home.  He  had  been  in  love  with  a  policeman's  daughter  from  Pitts-  burgh,  but  his  father  broke  it  up.  He  was  still  in  love  with  her  and  always  would  be.  It  was  the  way  he  was;  he  couldn't  help  being  faithful,  could  he?  His  name  was  Alfred,  butevery-  body  called  him  Bub.  The  fellow  his  father  paid  to  drive  him  around  was  right  down  there,  he  said,  as  they  stepped  through  the  door  and  out  on  the  veranda.  Nancy  looked  down  the  length  of  the  veranda,  which  ran  along  the  side  of  the  hotel,  and  there  was  a  man  sit-  ting  on  a  bench.  He  had  on  a  white  jacket  and  was  staring  straight  ahead,  smoking.  The  highway  curled  around  the  hotel  grounds,  following  the  curve  of  the  shore,  and  the  cars  came  glim-  mering  past,  one  by  one,  sometimes  with  lights  on  inside,  sometimes  spill-  ing  radio  music  that  trailed  up  in  long  waves  and  met  the  electric-organ  music  coming  out  of  the  bar.  Nancy  and  Bub  " b"walked  toward  the  man.  Bub  coun-  selled  her  gently,  &quot;His  name  is  Dennis.&quot;  Some  people  in  full  evening  dress  were  coming  up  the  divided  walk  before  the  hotel,  past  the  canna  lilies  blooming  deeplyred  under  the  high,  powerful  lights,  where  the  bugs  coned  in  long  footless  whirlpools.  'The  people  were  drunk  and  laughing.  &quot;Hi,  Dennis,&quot;  Bub  said.  The  way  he  said  it,  trying  to  sound  confident,  told  her  that  he  was  scared  of  Dennis.  Dennis's  head  snapped  up  and  around.  He  was  an  erect,  strong,  square-cut  man,  not  very  tall.  He  had  put  water  on  his  light-brown  hair  when  he  combed  it,  so  that  it  streaked  light  and  dark  and  light  again  and  looked  like  wood.  He  had  cold  eyes,  which  did  not  express  anything-just  the  opposite  of  Rob  Acklen's.  &quot;What  you  got  there?&quot;  he  asked  Bub.  &quot;I  met  her  this  morning  on  the  beach,&quot;  Bub  said.  &quot;Been  holding  out  on  me?&quot;  &quot;Nothing  like  that,&quot;  said  Bub.  &quot;I  just  now  saw  her  again.&quot;  Theman  called  Dennis  got  up  and  thumbed  his  cigarette  into  the  shrub,  bery.  Then  he  carefully  set  his  heels  together  and  bowed.  It  was  all  a  sort  of  joke  on  how  he  thought  people  here  behaved.  &quot;Would  you  care  to  dance?&quot;  he  inquired.  Dancing  there  on  the  veranda,  Nancy  noticed  at  once  that  he  had  a  tense,  strong  wrist  that  bent  back  and  forth  like  something  manufactured  out  of  steel.  She  also  noticed  that  he  was  making  her  do  whatever  it  was  he  called  dancing;  he  was  good  at  that.  The  mu-  sic  coming  out  of  the  Fishnet  poured  through  the  windows  and  around  them.  Dennis  was  possibly  even  thirty  years  old.  He  kept  talking  the  whole  time.  &quot;I  guess  he's  told  you  everything,  even  about  the  policeman'sdaughter.  He  tells  everybody  everything,  right  in  the  first  two  minutes.  I  don't  know  if  it's  true,  but  how  can  you  tell?  If  it  wasn't  true  when  it  happened,  it  is  now.&quot;  He  spun  her  fast  asa  top,  then  slung  her  out  about  ten  feet-she  thought  she  would  certainly  sail  right  on  out  over  the  rail-  ing  and  maybe  never  stop  till  she  landed  in  the  gulf,  or  perhaps  go  splat  on  the  highway-but  he  got  her  back  on  the  beat  and  finished  up  the  thought,  say-  ing,  &quot;Know  what  I  mean?&quot;  &quot;I  guess  so,&quot;  Nancy  said,  and  the  music  stopped.  The  three  of  them  sat  down  together  on  the  bench.  &quot;What  do  we  do  now?&quot;  Dennis  asked.  &quot;Let's  ask  her,&quot;  said  Bub.  He  was " b"more  and  more  delighted  with  Nancy.  He  had  been  tremendously  encouraged  when  Dennis  took  to  her.  &quot;You  ask  her,&quot;  Dennis  said.  &quot;Listen,  Nancy,&quot;  Bub  said.  &quot;Now,  listen.  Let  me  just  tell  you.  There's  so  much  money-that's  the  first  thing  to  know.  You've  got  no  idea  how  much  money  there  is.  Really  crazy.  It's  some-  thing,  actually,  that  nobody  knows-&quot;  &quot;If  anybody  knew,&quot;  said  Dennis,  &quot;they  might  have  to  tell  the  govern-  ment.&quot;  &quot;Anyway,  my  stepmother  on  this  yacht  in  [REDACTED],  her  own  telephone-  by  radio,  you  know-she'd  be  crazy  to  meet  you.  My  dad  is  likely  off  some-  where,  but  maybe  not.  And  there's  this  plane  down  at  Palm  Beach,  pilot  and  \xc2\xa7)  all,  with  nothing  to  do  but  go  to  the  beach  every  day,  justto  pass  away  the  time,  and  if  he's  not  there  for  any  rea-  son,  me  and  Dennis  can  fly  just  as  good  as  we  can  drive.  There's  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]-  would  you  like  to  go  to  [REDACTED]?  I've  always  wanted  to.  There's  any-  thing  you  say.&quot;  &quot;See  that  Cad  out  there?&quot;  said  Den-  nis.  &quot;The  yellow  one  with  the  black  leather  upholstery?  That's  his.  I  drive.&quot;  &quot;So  all  you  got  to  do,&quot;  Bub  told  her,  &quot;is  wish.  Now,  wait-now,  think.  It's  important!&quot;  He  all  but  held  his  hand  over  her  mouth,  as  if  playing  a  child's  game,  until  finally  he  said,  &quot;Now!  What  would  you  like  to  domost  in  the  world?&quot;  &quot;Go  to  New  Orleans,&quot;  said  Nancy  at  once,  &quot;and  eat  some  wonderful  food.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  good  idea,&quot;  said  Dennis.  &quot;This  dump  is  getting  on  my  nerves.  I  get  bored  most  of  the  time  anyway,  but  today  I'm  bored  silly.&quot;  &quot;So  wait  here!&quot;  Nancy  said.  &quot;So  wait  right  here!&quot;  She  ran  offto  get  Rob.  She  had  all  sorts  of  plans  in  her  head.  But  Rob  was  all  taken  up.  There  were  now  more  of  his  friends.  The  Marine  Room  was  full  of  people  just  like  him,  lounging  around  two  big  tables  shoved  together,  with  about  a  million  7-Up  bottles  and  soda  bottles  and  glasses  before  them,  and  girls  span-  gled  among  them,  all  silver,  gold,  and  white.  It  was  as  if  while  Nancy  was  gone  they  had  moved  into  mirrors  to  multiply  themselves.  They  were  talking  to  themselves  about  things  she  couldn't  join  in,  any  more  than  you  can  dance  without  feet.  Somebody  was  going  into  politics,  somebody  was  getting  married  to  a  girl  who  trained  horses,  somebody  was  just  back  from  Europe.  The  two  little  mosquito  girls  weren't  saying  any-  thing  much  anymore;  they  had  their  &gt;  " b"little  chins  glued  to  their  little  palms.  When  anybody  mentioned  the  univer-  sity,  it  sounded  like  a  small  country  the  people  right  there  were  running  ins  absentia  to  suit  themselves.  Last  year's  Maid  of  Cotton  was  there,  and  so,  it  turned  out,  was  the  girl  horse-trainer-  tall,  with  a  sheaf  of  upswept  brown  hair  fastened  with  a  glittering  ping  she  sat  like  the  mast  of  a  ship,  smiling  and  talk-  ing  about  horses.  Did  she  know  per-  sonally  every  horse  in  the  Southern  states?  Rob  scarcely  looked  up  when  he  pulled  Nancy  in.  &quot;Where  you  been?  What  you  want  to  drink?&quot;  He  was  having  another  good  evening.  He  seemed  to  be  sitting  up  above  all  the  rest,  as  though  presiding,  but  this  was  not  actually  so;  only  his  fondness  for  every  face  he  saw  before  him  made  him  appear  to  be  raised  up  a  little,  as  if  on  a  special  chair.  And,  later  on,  it  seemed  to  Nancy  that  she  herself  had  been,  among  them,  like  a  person  who  wasn't  a  person-an-  other  order  of  creature  passing  among  or  even  through  them.  Was  it  just  that  nothing,  nobody,  could  really  distract  them  when  they  got  wrapped  up  in  themselves?  &quot;I  met  some  people  who  want  to  meet  you,&quot;  she  whispered  to  Rob.  &quot;Come  on  out  with  me.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;In  a  minute.  Are  they  from  around  here?&quot;  &quot;Come  on,  come  on,&quot;  she  urged.  &quot;Come  on  out.&quot;  &quot;In  a  minute,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  will  in  a  minute,&quot;  he  promised.  Then  someone  noticed  her  pulling  at  his  sleeve,  and  she  thought  she  heard  Lorna  Skelton  laugh.  She  went  racing  back  to  Bub  and  Dennis,  who  were  waiting  for  her  so  docilely  they  seemed  to  be  the  soul  of  goodness,  and  she  said,&quot;T'll  justride  around  for  a  while,  because  I've  never  been  in  a  Cadillac  before.&quot;  So  theyrode  around  and  came  back  and  sat  for  a  while  under  the  huge  brilliant  overhead  lights  before  the  hotel,  where  the  bugs  spiralled  down.  They  did  everything  she  said.  She  could  make  them  do  any-  thing.  They  went  to  three  different  places,  for  instance,  to  find  her  some  Dentyne,  and  when  they  found  it  they  bought  her  a  whole  carton  of  it.  The  bugs  did  a  jagged  frantic  dance,  trying  to  climb  high  enough  to  kill  themselves,  and  occasionally  a  big  one  crashed  with  a  harsh  dry  sound  against  the  pavement.  Nancy  remembered  dancing  in  the  open  air,  and  the  rough  salt  feel  of  the  air  whipping  against  her  skin  as  she  spun  fast  against  the  air's  drift.  From  behind  she  heard  the  reso-  " b"nant,  constant  whisper  of  the  gulf.  She  looked  toward  the  hotel  doors  and  thought  that  if  Rob  came  through  she  would  hop  out  of  the  car  right  away,  but  he  didn't  come.  A  man  she  knew  passed  by,  and  she  just  all  of  a  sudden  said,  &quot;'Tell  Rob  Ill  be  back  in  a  minute,&quot;  and  he,  without  even  looking  up,  said,  &quot;O.K.,  Nancy,&quot;  just  like  it  really  was  O.K.,  so  she  said  what  the  motor  was  saying,  quiet  but  right  there,  and  definitely  running  just  under  the  splendid  skin  of  the  car,  &quot;Let's  go  on  for  a  little  while.&quot;  &quot;Nancy,  I  think  you're  the  sweetest  girl  I  ever  saw,&quot;  said  Bub,  and  they  drove  off.  She  rode  between  them,  on  the  front  seat  of  the  Cadillac.  The  top  was  down  and  the  moon  spilled  over  them  as  they  rode,  skimming  gently  but  powerfully  along  the  shore  and  the  sound,  like  a  strong  rapid  cloud  travelling  west.  Nancy  watched  the  point  where  the  moon  actually  met  the  water.  It  was  moving  and  still  at  once.  She  thought  that  it  was  glorious,  in  a  messy  sort  of  way.  She  would  have  liked  to  poke  her  head  up  out  of  the  water  right  there.  She  could  feel  the  water  pouring  back  through  her  white-blond  hair,  her  face  slathering  over  with  moonlight.  &quot;If  it  hadn't  been  for  that  crazy  rain,&quot;  Bub  kept  saying,  &quot;I  wouldn't  have  met  her.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  shut  up  about  that  goofy  rain,&quot;  said  Dennis.  &quot;It  was  like  being  spit  on  from  above,&quot;  said  Nancy.  The  needle  crept  up  to  eighty  or  more,  and  when  they  had  left  the  sound  and  were  driving  through  the  swamp  Nancy  shivered.  They  wrapped  her  in  a  lap  robe  from  the  back  seat  and  turned  the  radio  up  loud.  IT  was  since  she  got  back,  since  she  got  back  home  from  New  Orleans,  that  her  mother  did  not  put  on  the  thin  voile  afternoon  dress  anymore  and  serve  iced  tea  to  the  neighbors  on  the  back  porch.  Just  yesterday,  having  nothing  to  do  in  the  hot  silence  but  hear  the  traffic  stream  by  on  the  boulevard,  and  not  wanting  a  suntan  and  being  certain  the  telephone  would  not  ring,  Nancy  had  taken  some  lemonade  over  to  Bernard  Nattier,  who  was  sickin  bed  with  the  mumps.  He  and  his  mother  had  one  room  between  them,  over  at  Mrs.  Poultney's  house,  and  they  had  stacks  of  magazines-the  Ladies  Home  Journal,  McCall's,  Life,  and  Time-  piled  along  the  walls.  Bernard  lay  on  a  bunk  bed  pushed  up  under  the  win-  dow,  in  all  the  close  heat,  with  no  breeze  able  to  come  inat  all.  His  face  " b"was  puffed  out  and  his  eyes  feverish.  &quot;I  brought  you  some  lemonade,&quot;  said  Nancy,  but  he  said  he  couldn't  drink  it  because  it  hurt  his  gums.  Then  he  smiled  at  her,  or  tried  to-it  must  have  hurt  even  to  do  that,  and  it  certainly  made  him  look  silly,  like  a  cartoon  of  himself,  but  it  was  sweet.  &quot;I  love  you,  Nancy,&quot;  he  said,  most  irresponsibly.  She  thought  she  would  cry.  She  had  honestly  tried  to  kill  him  with  those  rocks  and  oyster  shells.  He  knew  that  very  well,  and  he,  from  the  moment  he  had  seen  her,  had  set  out  to  make  her  life  one  long  torment,  so  where  could  it  come  from,  a  smile  like  that,  and  what  he  said?  She  didn't  know.  From  the  fever,  maybe.  She  said  she  loved  him,  too.  Then,  it  was  last  night,  just  the  night  before,  that  her  father  had  got  drunk  and  made  speeches  beginning  &quot;To  think  that  a  daughter  of  mine  ...&quot;  Nancy  had  sat  through  it  all  crouched  in  the  shadows  on  the  stair  landing,  in  the  very  spot  where  the  moss  or  old  sea-  weed  back  of  the  panelling  smelled  the  strongest  and  dankest,  and  thought  of  her  mother  upstairs,  lving,  clothed,  straight  out  on  the  bed  in  the  dark,  with  a  headache  and  no  cover  on  and  maybe  the  roof  above  her  melted  away.  Nancy  looked  down  to  where  her  father  was  marching  up  to  the  donkey  that  said,  &quot;If  you  really  want  to  look  like  me-Just  keep  right  on  talking,&quot;  and  was  picking  it  up  and  throwing  it  down,  right  on  the  floor.  She  cried  out,  before  she  knew  it-&quot;Oh!&quot;-seeing  him  do  the  very  thing  she  had  so  often  meant  to  do  her-  self.  Why  had  he?  Why?  Because  the  whiskey  had  run  out  on  him?  Or  be-  cause  he  had  got  too  much  of  it  again?  Or  from  trying  to  get  in  one  good  lick  at  everything  there  was?  Or  because  the  advice  he  loved  so  much  seemed  now  being  offered  to  him?  But  the  donkey  did  not  break.  It  lay  there,  far  down  in  the  tricky  shadows;  Nancy  could  see  it  lying  there,  looking  back  over  its  shoulder  with  its  big  red  grinning  mouth,  and  teeth  like  piano  keys,  still  saying  the  same  thing,  natu-  rally.  Her  father  was  tilting  uncertainly  down  toward  it,  unable,  without  fall-  ing  flat  on  his  face,  to  reach  it.  This  made  a  problem  for  him,  and  he  stood  thinking  it  all  over,  taking  every  aspect  of  it  well  into  account,  even  though  the  donkey  gave  the  impression  that  not  even  with  a  sledgehammer  would  it  be  broken,  and  lay  as  if  on  some  deep  dis-  tant  sea  floor,  toward  which  all  the  sedi-  ment  of  life  was  drifting,drifting,  for-  ever  slowly  down....  [REDACTED]!  It  was  the  first  time  she  had  " b"remembered  it.  They  had  said  they  would  take  her  there,  Dennis  and  Bub,  and  then  she  had  forgotten  to  ask,  so  why  think  of  it  right  now,  on  the  street  uptown,  just  when  she  saw  Rob  Acklen  coming  along?  She  would  have  to  see  him  sometimes,  she  guessed,  but  what  did  [REDACTED]  have  to  do  with  it?  &quot;Nancy  Lewis,&quot;  he  said  pleasantly,  &quot;you  ran  out  on  me.  Why  did  you  act  like  that?  I  was  always  nice  to  you.&quot;  &quot;I  told  them  to  tell  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  just  went  to  ride  around  for  a  while.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  got  the  word,  all  right.  About  fifty  different  people  saw  you  drive  off  in  that  Cadillac.  Now  about  a  hundred  claim  to  have.  Seems  like  everybody  saw  those  two  characters  but  me.  What  did  you  do  it  for?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  like  those  Skeltons,  all  those  people  you  knew.  I  didn't  like  those  sorority  girls,  that  Teenie  and  Cootie.  You  knew  I  didn't,  but  you  always  took  me  where  they  were  just  the  same.&quot;  &quot;But  the  point  is,&quot;  said  Rob  Acklen,  &quot;I  thought  you  liked  me.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  did,&quot;  said  Nancy  Lewis,  as  though  it  all  had  happened  a  hundred  years  ago.  &quot;Well,  I  did  like  you  just  fine.&quot;  They  were  talking  on  the  street  still.  There  had  been  the  tail  of  a  storm  that  morning,  and  the  palms  were  blowing.  There  was  a  sense  of  them  streaming  like  green  flags  above  the  low  town.  Rob  took  Nancy  to  the  drugstore  and  sat  at  a  booth  with  her.  He  ordered  her  a  fountain  Coke  and  himself  a  cup  of  coffee.  &quot;What's  happened  to  you?'&quot;  he  asked  her.  She  realized  then,  from  what  he  was  looking  at,  that  something  she  had  only  half  noticed  was  certainly  there  to  be  seen-her  skin,  all  around  the  edges  of  her  white  blouse,  was  badly  bruised  and  marked,  and  there  was  the  purplish  mark  on  her  cheekbone  she  had  more  or  less  powdered  over,  along  with  the  angry  streak  on  her  neck.  &quot;You  look  like  you  fell  through  a  cotton  [REDACTED];  Rob  Acklen  continued,  in  his  friendly  way.  &quot;You're  not  going  to  say  the  rain  over  in  New  Orleans  is  just  scalding  hot,  are  you?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  say  anything,&quot;  she  re-  turned.  &quot;Maybe  the  mosquitoes  come  pretty  big  over  there,&quot;  he  suggested.  &quot;They  wear  boxing  gloves,  for  one  thing,  and,  for  another-&quot;  &quot;Oh,  stop  it,  Rob,&quot;  she  said  and  wished  she  was  anywhere  else.  It  had  all  stemmed  from  the  moment  down  in  the  French  Quarter,  over  late  drinks  somewhere,  when  Dennis  had  got  nasty  enough  with  Bub  to  get  rid " b"of  him,  so  that  all  of  Dennis's  attention  from  that  point  onward  had  gone  ex-  clusively  to  Nancy.  This  particular  at-  tention  was  relentless  and  direct,  for  Dennis  was  about  as  removed  from  any  sort  of  affection  and  kindness  as  a  human  could  be.  Maybe  it  had  all  got  boiled  out  of  him;  maybe  he  had  never  had  much  to  get  rid  of.  What  he  had  to  say  to  her  was  nothing  she  hadn't  heard  before,  nothing  she  hadn't  al-  ready  been  given  more  or  less  to  under-  stand  from  mosquitoes,  people,  life-in-  general,  and  the  rain  out  of  the  sky.  It  was  just  that  he  said  it  in  a  final  sort  of  way-that  was  all.  &quot;I  was  in  a  wreck,&quot;  said  Nancy.  &quot;Nobody  killed,  I  hope,&quot;  said  Rob.  She  looked  vaguely  across  at  Rob  Acklen  with  pretty,  dark-blue  eyes  that  seemed  to  be  squinting  to  see  through  shifting  lights  down  in  the  deep  sea;  for  in  looking  at  him,  in  spite  of  all  he  could  do,  she  caught  a  glimmering  impression  of  herself,  of  what  he  thought  of  her,  of  how  soft  her  voice  always  was,  her  face  like  a  warm  flower.  &quot;I  was  doing  my  best  to  be  nice  to  you.  Why  wasn't  that  enough?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;None  of  those  people  you  didn't  like  were  out  to  get  you.  They  were  all  my  friends.&quot;  When  he  spoke  in  this  handsome,  sincere,  and  democratic  way,  she  had  to  agree;  she  had  to  say  she  guessed  that  was  right.  Then  he  said,  &quot;I  was  having  such  a  good  summer.  I  imagined  you  were,  too,&quot;  and  she  thought,  He's  coming  down  deeper  and  deeper,  but  one  thing  is  certain-if  he  gets  down  as  far  as  I  am,  he'll  drown.  &quot;'You  better  go,&quot;  she  told  him,  be-  cause  he  had  said  he  was  on  his  way  up  to  [REDACTED]  on  business  for  his  father.  And  because  Bub  and  Dennis  were  back;  she'd  seen  them  drift  by  in  the  car  twice,  once  on  the  boulevard  and  once  in  town,  silenter  than  cloud,  Bub  in  the  back,  with  his  knees  propped  up,  reading  a  magazine.  &quot;I'll  be  going  in  a  minute,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  just  didn't  realize  I'd  ever  go  running  off  like  that,&quot;  Nancy  said,  winding  a  damp  Coca-Cola  straw  around  her  finger.  &quot;Was  it  the  party,  the  one  you  said  you  wanted  to  give?  You  didn't  have  to  feel-&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember  any  party,&quot;  she  said  quickly.  Her  mother  lay  with  the  roof  gone,  hands  folded.  Nancy  felt  that  people's  mothers,  like  wallpapered  walls  after  a  hurricane,  should  not  be  exposed.  Her  father  at  last  successfully  reached  the" b"donkey,  buthe  fell  in  the  middle  of  the  rug,  while  Nancy,  on  the  stair  landing,  smelling  seaweed,  asked  herself  how  a  murderous  child  with  swollen  jaws  hap-  pened  to  mention  love,  if  love  is  not  a  fever,  and  the  storm-driven  sea  struck  the  open  reef  and  went  roaring  sky-  ward,  splashing  a  tattered  gull  that  clutched  at  the  blast-but  if  we  will  all  go  there  immediately  it  is  safe  in  the  Dupr\xc3\xa9  house,  because  they  have  this  holy  candle.  There  are  hidden  bone-  cold  lairs  no  one  knows  of,  in  rock  be-  neath  the  sea.  She  shook  her  bone-  white  hair.  Rob's  whole  sensitive  face  tightened  harshly  for  saying  what  had  to  come  next,  and  she  thought  for  a  while  he  wasn't  going  to  make  it,  but  he  did.  &quot;To  hell  with  it.  To  absolute  hell  with  it  then.&quot;  He  looked  stricken,  as  though  he  had  managed  nothing  but  damaging  himself.  &quot;I  guess  it's  just  the  way  I  am,&quot;  Nancy  murmured.  &quot;I  just  run  off  some-  times.&quot;  Her  voice  faded  in  a  deepening  glim-  mer  where  the  human  breath  is  snatched  clean  away  and  there  are  only  bubbles,  iridescent  and  pure.  When  she  dove  again,  they  rose  in  a  curving  track  behind  her. "