 b"I WAS  shocked,  recently,  when  a  neighbor  said  laughingly  of  her  thirteen-year-old  daughter,  &quot;This  morning  she  got  flowers  from  her  boy  friend  to  celebrate  their  anniversary.  They  had  their  first  date  just  a  year  ago.  Isn't  it  mad?&quot;  Mad?  When  I  was  thirteen,  my  mother  would  probably  have  called  the  police  at  any  suggestion  of  a  boy  friend,  but  at  that  age  no  boy  looked  at  me  and  I  looked  at  no  boy.  Even  when  such  exchanges  did  begin,  several  years  later,  and  Mother  didn't  mind,  I  was  re-  luctant  to  bring  the  boys  home;  I  tried  to  keep  anybody  I  liked  away  from  the  family  as  long  asI  could.  I  wanted  to  keep  him  to  myself,  and,  as  I  knew  all  too  well,  once  a  new  friend  was  ad-  mitted  to  our  jolly  family  group  he  en-  tered  the  public  domain  andwas  no  longer  exclusive  property.  My  parents,  my  four  sisters,  and  even  my  brother,  had  a  way  of  pouncing  on  people  and  in  the  most  friendly  way  possible  tear-  ing  them  to  pieces  and  swallowing  the  bits.  If  I  seem  to  exaggerate,  allow-  ances  should  be  made;  that  is  how  I  viewed  the  operation  at  the  time.  After  such  an  experience,  a  boy  never  seemed  the  same  to  me  again.  I  don't  mean  he  disliked  the  process.  Not  at  all-he  enjoyed  it.  But  I  didn't.  As  soon  as  a  stranger  was  led  into  the  parlor-  which  is  what  we  called  our  sitting  room  in  [REDACTED]  Louis-the  place  got  ter-  ribly  crowded,  because  everybody  piled  in,  curi-  ous  and  full  of  hospi-  tality.  En  masse,  the  family  took  over,  and  it  was  just  like  a  party.  The  parlor  really  wasn't  very  comfortable-most  of  the  furniture  was  up-  holstered  in  shiny  green  short-haired  fur-but  the  piano  was  there,  and,  quick  as  a  wink,  if  someone  who  could  play  it  happened  to  be  at  home  everybody  was  singing,  whether  I  wanted  my  friend  to  be  sung  at  or  not.  It  was  a  pretty  fair  guess,  too,  that  somebody  who  could  play  the  piano  would  be  at  home,  because  our  musical  accom-  plishments  had  been  carefully  distrib-  uted.  What  instrument  a  child  wanted  to  play,  if  he  or  she  wanted  to  play  one  at  all,  had  nothing  to  do  with  it.  My  parents  had  alternated  the  piano  with  something  else,  down  the  list  ac-  cording  to  age,  so  Rose  played  the  piano,  Dorothy  the  violin,  [REDACTED]  the  piano,  I     the  violin,  and  Dauphine,  the  baby,  the  piano.  My  brother  Mannel,  the  eldest,  played  everything,  even  the  clarinet,  and  Mother  played  the  piano.  Daddy  sang.  Hell,  we  all  sang.  What  chance  had  a  strange  young  man  in  the  midst  of  a  crew  like  that?  Even  without  music,  they  could  be  overpowering.  Daddy  was  courtly,  but  as  soon  as  he  warmed  up  he  grew  an-  ecdotal,  and  Mother  retailed  embarrass-  ing  stories  of  my  childhood.  She  did  it  in  a  good-humored  way,  but  there  was  just  a  hint,  a  glitter,  of  hidden  steel.  Even  so,  my  parents  weren't  too  bad,  taken  alone.  Parents  are  parents.  It  was  the  crushing  mass  of  sisters  that  got  me  down.  Most  of  all  it  was  Dot-  warmhearted,  quick,  clever  Dot,  full  of  life  and  bent  on  grabbing  everybody  who  showed  up.  And  once  she  had  grabbed  people,  she  kept  them.  Long  after  we  others  had  lost  interest  in  Tom,  Dick,  or  Mary,  Dot  still  correspond-  ed  with  them,  keeping  up,  mentioning  them  now  and  then  casually  as  if  she  had  seen  them  first.  I  think  she  really  believed  she  had.  Admittedly,  Dot  was  seldom  asore  trial  to  me  in  thatparticular  respect,  because  we  were  a  long  way  apart  in  age.  I  had  only  two  grudges  against  her,  dating  back  to  child-  hood.  For  one  thing,  she  snitched  my  soldier  in  World  War  I-my  soldier,  for  whom  I  knitted  peculiar  khaki-  colored  washcloths  and  made  fudge.  Not  every  little  girl  had  a  soldier-  I  got  this  one  through  my  brother-and  I  was  very  proud  of  my  ac-  quisition  and  boasted  a  lot  about  him  in  school.  He  sent  me  a  diamond-  shaped  insigne  patch  to  wear  on  my  sleeve,  and  once  I  got  apostcard  from  abroad  deco-  rated  with  a  drawing  of  a  German  offi-  cer  in  a  spiked  helmet,  standing  over  a  dead  woman  in  torn  clothes.  Was  she  Marianne?  One  of  his  booted  feet  rest-  ed  on  the  corpse,  and  in  his  raised  hand  was  a  skull,  out  of  which  he  was  drink-  ing  blood.  'The  legend  was  &quot;The  Triumph  of  Kultur.&quot;  I  took  the  post-  card  to  school  and  showed  it  around,  but  pretty  soon  Dot  wrote  to  my  sol-  dier,  and  after  that  his  letters  were  addressed  to  her,  with  an  occasional  message  to  me  in  a  postscript.  Therewas  also  the  affair  of  my  Aire-  dale  pup.  Even  today,the  phrase  &quot;my  pup&quot;  has  special  meaning,  for  it  was  a  tremendous  step  forward  to  have  a  dog  in  the  house,  and  a  greater  one  to  have  a  dog  of  my  own.  In  a  big  family,  almost  everything  is  a  community  pos-  session.  I  had  nothing  but  sympathy  for  a  cousin  of  mine  whose  notorious  habit  was  to  put  all  her  treasures  into  a  box,  close  the  box,  and  sit  on  it  all  day.  At  any  rate,  the  family  knew  that  Dixie,  the  Airedale,  was  mine,  and  for  a  long  time  no  one  disputed  my  claim  to  him.  And,  of  the  whole  ravening  lot  of  them,  Dot  was  the  one  I  would  least  have  expected  trouble  from.  She  feared  and  hated  dogs.  But  late  one  evening  Dixie,  in  the  middle  of  a  romp,  gave  a  shrill  scream,  ran  into  a  dark  cor-  ner,  and  went  on  screaming.  We  tried  to  reach  our  vet  on  the  telephone,  but  at  first  we  couldn't  find  him.  We  moved  Dixie  to  an  upstairs  sleeping  porch,  where  he  continued  to  yelp.  I  hung  over  him,  spouting  tears,  imploring  him  to  stop.  Then  I  heard  my  mother  say  to  Mannel,  &quot;Shouldn't  he  be  put  out  of  his  misery?,&quot;  and  my  screams  drowned  out  those  of  the  dog.  At  last,  the  vet  was  located  and  a  palliative  applied  to  Dixie,  who,  said  the  vet,  was  suffering  from  inflammation  of  the  intestines.  The  dog  settled  down,  as  did  the  house  altogeth-  er.  But  when,  at  bedtime,  I  went  back  to  the  sleeping  porch  to  spend  the  night  near  Dixie,  Dot  met  me  at  the  door  and  barred  the  way.  She  drove  me  off  with  noisy  abuse,  declaring  that  I  was  not  to  bother  the  dog,  and  she  was  too  much  my  senior  for  argument.  She  spent  the  night  there,  usurping  my  position,  and  I  never  forgot  it.  I  understood.  Though  Dot  hated  dogs,  she  had  to  be  in  on  an  affair  as  dramatic  as  that  one,  and  wherever  she  was  she  had  to  manage  things.  I  understood-but  understanding  does  not  necessarily  bring  forgiveness.  Nei-  ther  of  these  grudges  had  anything  to  do  with  boy  trouble,  however.  All  that  came  later,  by  which  time  the  identity  of  my  chief  opponent  had  shifted.  N  our  [REDACTED]  Louis  house,  Webster's  Dictionary  lay  open  on  a  lectern.  Some  of  the  pages  had  come  loose,  and  on  the  infrequent  occasions  when  the  dictionary  was  closed  they  stuck  out.  Its  binding  was  as  scuffed  as  my  school  shoes.  Webster  must  have  been  used  a  lot,  though  I  don't  recall  anybody's  using  it  very  much  until  I  learned  how.  Before  I  learned  to  look  words  up,  I  realized  that  the  book  was  excellent  for  pressing  flowers.  The  pages  already  sheltered  a  number  of  cruelly  flattened  roses  and  violets  faded  to  a  dirty  yel-  lowish  pallor,  and  skeletons  of  leaves,  " b"and  even  old  dance  programs.  In  my  flower-pressing  phase,  I  once  or  twice  looked  speculatively  at  a  set  of  fairly  large,  heavy  books  ranged  behind  glass  in  the  parlor.  Piled  up,  three  or  four  of  the  volumes  would  pressa  violet  ade-  quately,  perhaps  even  a  rose,  but  some-  how  I  thought  we  were  not  supposed  to  meddle  with  them.  I  may  have  been  mistaken  about  that.  The  series  was  a  sort  of  &quot;Child's  Treasury,&quot;  and,  much  later,  on  an  idle  afternoon,  I  unlocked  the  bookcase  and  examined  one  of  the  books.  I  liked  it,  and  quickly  read  through  the  lot.  Then,  emboldened,  I  started  out  on  an  upper  shelf  of  books  not  so  pristine  in  appearance,  bound  in  battered  tan  calf-the  complete  trans-  lated  works  of  Victor  Hugo.  Ultimate-  ly,  it  was  Hugo,  not  the  &quot;Treasury,&quot;  that  sent  me  to  Webster,  for  M.  Hugo's  vocabulary  was  way  above  my  head,  especially  whenever  I  reached  the  most  fascinating  point  of  the  plot.  Off  I  went  to  the  dictionary,  every  time.  For  some  reason,  most  of  the  unknown  words  I  looked  up  started  with  &quot;I&quot;-&quot;licen-  tious,&quot;  &quot;libidinous,&quot;  &quot;lascivious&quot;  (mostly  out  of  &quot;Le  Roi  S'Amuse,&quot;  asI  remem-  ber)-but  there  were  other  terms,  and  I  was  badly  disappointed  with  some  of  them,  such  as  &quot;venal.&quot;  Nevertheless,  I  learned  a  lot  from  the  dictionary.  Not  everything,  though.  I  never  had  occa-  sion  to  look  up  &quot;ambivalence&quot;-natu-  rally  enough,  because  it  wasn't  a  word  in  use  at  the  time  and  I  wouldn't  have  found  it  even  if  I  tried.  Yet  it  would  have  been  a  good,  useful  term  to  apply  to  a  split  point  of  view  of  my  mother's  that  puzzled  me.  Her  attitude  toward  dating  was  in-  deed  ambivalent-double  and  incom-  patible.  Dating-or,  as  we  called  it  then,  &quot;going  out  with&quot;  -was  either  good  or  bad,  right  or  wrong,  but  my  mother  showed  signs  of  both  approving  and  dis-  approving.  Sometimes  she  behaved  as  if  she  hated  the  idea,  at  which  times  girls  who  went  out  with  lots  of  boys  were  condemned  as  boy-crazy.  At  other  times,  she  spoke  admiringly  of  popular  girls.  My  father  followed  her  lead,  no  matter  where  it  took  him,  and  you  never  knew  where  you  were.  One  day,  I  heard  Mother  discussing  my  sister  [REDACTED]  with  Daddy.  Because  the  discussion  was  about  [REDACTED],  who  was  next-older  to  me  and  thus  within  my  orbit  of  interest,  and  also  because  they  spoke  in  low  tones,  I  pricked  up  my  ears.  'She's  going  to  be  a  beautiful  girl.  Beautiful!&quot;  Mother  said,  and  my  father  assented,  with  pride.  It  was  not  news  to  me  that  curly-haired  [REDACTED]  was  beau-  tiful,  but  I  found  it  worthy  of  note  that  our  elders  should  consider  this  a  good  thing,  since,  when  talking  to  us,  they  never  took  the  position  that  pretty  chil-  dren  wereany  better  than  plain  ones.  Distinctions  were  drawn  along  quite  different  lines:  it  was  good  to  get  high  marks,  to  tell  the  truth,  and  to  show  courage,  and  bad  to  mistreat  your  little  sister,  to  make  a  noise  when  Daddy  was  home,  to  pat  strange  dogs,  and  to  tell  lies.  Beauty  was  never  mentioned,  and  now  I  believed  that  my  mother  spoke  softly  because  she  didn't  want  Dau-  phine  and  me  to  hear  her,  since  we  were  not  beautiful.  Naturally,  Mother  wouldn't  want  to  hurt  our  feelings.  My  feelings  may  not  have  been  hurt,  but  I  was  certainly  jealous.  Until  then,  I'd  felt  superior  to  [REDACTED],  in  spite  of  her  seniority,  because  her  beauty  was  so  painful  to  maintain.  Every  time  the  &quot;upstairs  girl&quot;  (the  one  who  did  house-  work  and  looked  after  the  children,  as  opposed  to  the  &quot;downstairs  girl,&quot;  who  cooked)  combed  [REDACTED]'s  ever-tangled  hair,  there  were  screams  and  tears.  Style  decreed  that  she  wear  it  in  glossy  sausages  of  equal  plumpness  and  length,  dangling  to  the  collar.  Propriety  de-  manded  that  these  sausages  be  reglossed  every  morning,  but  the  upstairs  girl,  as  well  as  [REDACTED],  shrank  from  the  ordeal.  I'd  always  thought,  smugly,  Poor  Hel-  en,  but  now  I  realized  that  it  was  true  what  they  said,  or  at  least  implied,  in  the  fairy  tales:  it  was  good  to  be  beautiful.  After  that  day,  I  studied  pictures  of  princesses  in  the  fancy  fairy-tale  books  that  Dorothy  hadbegun  to  collect-  special  full-page  illustrations  in  color,  protected  by  tissue-paper  pages,  by  Max-  field  Parrish,  Arthur  Rackham,  Ed-  mund  Dulac.  Their  princesses  often  bore  a  distinct  resemblance  to  [REDACTED],  with  their  large  blueeyes  and  thick  dark  lashes  and  pretty  smiles.  No  prin-  cess  in  any  of  the  pictures  looked  like  me;  none  of  them  had  straight  bobbed  hair  and  a  round  face.  I  didn't  repine  over  my  shortcomings  or  refuse  to  believe  they  existed;  I  conceded  them.  If  the  world  wanted  graceful,  blue-eyed  princesses  with  curls,  it  would  have  to  make  out  with  [REDACTED].  I  had  Webster.  But  though  I  aimed  at  self-sufficiency,  I  couldn't  attain  it.  In  spite  of  myself,  I  occasionally  tried  for  my  turn  at  the  center  of  the  stage.  A  small  child  finds  it  comparatively  easy  to  get  there.  He  has  only  to  open  his  mouth  and  yell,  or  use  some  innocent,  lovable  pretext  like  that  of  Dot,  when  she  was  four,  who  plucked  at  a  visitor's  sleeve  and  said,  &quot;This  is  me.  This  is  Dorothy.&quot;  But  it  is  not  so  simple  as  you  grow  older.  Besides,  I  was  fifth  in  line  and  had  to  compete  with  oth-  ers  who  had  already  learned  to  dispute  " b"the  field,  so  I  didn't  try  hard  or  often.  People  were  always  telling  us  how  lucky  we  were  to  be  a  big  family.  The  world  we  grew  up  in  was  secure;  our  brother  and  sisters  were  always  our  champions.  Though  we  might  have  our  little  spats,  who  didn't?  In  the  end,  the  family  was  the  important  thing,  cemented  by  love  and  loyalty.  I  have  never  doubted  the  fundamental  truth  of  this  concept,  but  I'm  not  so  sure  the  spats  were  all  that  trivial.  Dot  did  her  bestto  live  up  to  the  temperament  ev-  erybody  automatically  attributed  to  her  because  of  her  red  hair.  She  was  pas-  sionate  and  bad-tempered-partly,  I  was  sure,  because  it  was  expected  of  her.  But  I  didn't  often  make  allowances  for  Dorothy.  I  belonged  to  Rose.  Dauph  was  Dot's.  To  Dauphine  and  me,  it  seemed  that  our  older  sisters  had  never  been  in  our  humble  class;  they'd  always  been  adults.  Most  of  the  time,  we  obeyed  their  commands,  though  we  ex-  pressed  feeble  defiance  first.  And  it  worked  both  ways,  for  Rose  felt  a  spe-  cial  responsibility  toward  me,  as  Dot  did  toward  Dauph.  I  would  fetch  and  carry  for  Rose,  though  not  for  Dot,  and  when  the  two  of  them  faced  each  other  in  the  arena,  it  was  Rose  I  rooted  for.  It  didn't  occur  to  me  then  that  I  might  ever  bea  full-fledged  gladiator  myself,  but  the  time  was  coming.  GREW  older,  and  began  going  with  [REDACTED]  to  Saturday-morning  classes  at  the  art  school  at  [REDACTED]  University.  The  school  was  housed  in  an  edifice  of  great,  if  accidental,  distinc-  tion.  It  had  been  created  as  a  pavilion  for  the  World's  Fair  of  1904,  with  an  Italian  sunkengarden  and  porticoes  on  all  four  sides.  By  the  time  we  got  there,  it  was  as  romantically  decrepit  as  any  real  Italian  ruin.  Leaky  roof,  peeling  paint,  mounds  of  dead  leaves  and  bushes  run  wild  were  fit  surroundings  for  drawing  in  charcoal  from  casts  of  an-  tique  sculpture.  I  drew  Apollo,  Her-  cules,  and  Hera,  then  moved  on  into  the  sculpture  class,  where  I  modelled  dogs,  horses,  praying  hands.  I  loved  it  all.  [REDACTED]  Louis's  bohemians  used  the  school  as  a  center,  and  put  on  a  pageant  there  every  year-their  own  Chelsea  Arts  Ball,  or  Beaux-Arts.  The  last  year  I  was  there,  for  some  reason  that  escapes  me,  we  younger  students  wore  cos-  tumes  of  vaguely  Egyptian  appearance  and  danced  all  together  to  music  from  &quot;Aida.&quot;  I  was  thrilled,  especially  when  somebody  took  a  photograph  of  me  at  the  dress  rehearsal  looking  dreamy  and  noble  in  profile  against  an  empty  sky.  I  could  not  be  so  fat  after  all,  I  thought,  if  they  wanted  to  photograph  me,  and  after  the  performance  I  hung  around  waiting  hopefully  for  compliments.  Mannel  said,  &quot;You  looked  like  a  butter  tub  next  to  [REDACTED].&quot;  This  may  have  been  the  point  at  which  I  made  my  resolution  to  step  into  the  ring.  Yet,  at  that  time,  there  was  no  rancor  in  my  feelings  for  [REDACTED],  We  got  on  well;  our  interests  were  com-  patible.  [REDACTED]  liked  to  paint  and  I  pre-  ferred  sculpture,  which  kept  things  comfortable;  we  went  to  museums  to-  gether.  She  wasn't  a  passionate  reader,  but  she  didn't  mind  listening,  so  I  would  read  aloud.  She  played  the  piano  and  I  the  violin,  or  we  sang  together  or  made  up  songs-[REDACTED]  the  music,  I  the  words.  If  I  couldn't  keep  up  with  her  in  the  gym  and  she  cared  little  for  my  interest  in  natural  history,  the  balance     still  tipped  to  the  side  of  friendly  rela-  tions,  and  I  appreciated  above  all  the  fact  that,  as  the  elder,  she  never  pulled  rank  on  me,  as  I  was  always  doing  to  Dauphine.  But  [REDACTED]  had  a  side  that  I  couldn't  understand-she  didn't  want  to  remain  a  child.  She  was  always  rushing  her  fences;  it  had  been  that  way,  I  reflected,  since  she  rose  up  in  rebellion  against  the  carly  supper  of  cereal  and  milk  we  three  youngest  used  to  have  in  the  kitchen  and  insisted  on  eating  later,  with  the  others,  in  the  dining  room.  This  desire  for  the  dull  world  of  grownups  mysti-  fied  me  then  and  continued  to  mystify  me  when  I  was  twelve  or  thirteen  and  [REDACTED],  at  fifteen,  was  still  straining  at  the  leash.  There  was  a  sort  of  climax,  one  eve-  ning,  over  aparty  dress  that  43616e616461had  inherited  from  Rose.  All  our  clothes  were  passed  down  from  sister  to  sister.  We  never  minded  that;  on  the  contrary,  we  sometimes  waited  impatiently  for  our  turn  at  some  favorite  garment,  and  I  had  always  loved  the  dress  [REDACTED]  was  wearing  that  evening.  A  white  net,  it  had  skipped  Dot  on  its  descent,  because  of  its  salmon-pink  bolero;  according  to  the  immutable  laws  of  dress,  a  redhead  could  not  wear  pink.  Redheads  had  to  wear  blue,  green,  yellow,  or  tan;  bru-  nettes  were  best  in  red,  blondes  in  blue;  gray-haired  women  must  wear  black  or  gray  or  purple;  and  nobody  less  than  thirty  could  dress  in  black  except  for  mourning.  When  the  white  net  with  the  bolero  had  been  made-like  all  our  things,  it  was  made  at  home,  by  a  dress-  maker-there  was  some  anxious  argu-  ment  about  the  trimming  of  tiny  crystal  beads,  designed  by  Rose.  Mother  was  afraid  the  beads  would  look  cheap,  but  " b"she  gave  in  at  last.  There  had  been  no  trouble  over  the  neckline,  because  it  was  high  and  demure.  (Mother  wor-  ried  about  necklines  that  gave  any  hint  of  secondary  sex  characteristics.  &quot;Can  you  see  the  divide?&quot;  she  would  ask  sus-  piciously.  )  I  thought  the  bolero  and  the  beads  were  beautiful,  and  at  the  party  that  night-I've  forgotten  what  it  was,  per-  haps  a  university  party  for  all  ages-I  kept  looking  at  [REDACTED].  But  one  thing  puzzled  me:  I  didn't  see  why  she  kept  retiring  to  the  powder  room.  She  took  me  with  her  every  time,  totalk  with,  and  she  didn't  do  anything  but  mope.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  go  back  out  there,&quot;  she  said  when  I  got  bored  and  tried  to  coax  her.  I  said,  &quot;What's  the  matter,  [REDACTED]?  Oh,  come,  let's  get  some  lemonade.  Let's  sit  near  the  band.  Come  on,  [REDACTED].&quot;  She  flared  out,  &quot;I  don't  want  to,  I  tell  you!  I  hate  the  way  I  look.  I  just  hate  it.  I  wish  I  hadn't  come.&quot;  I  thought  she  had  gone  mad,  and  said  so.  Hate  that  lovely  white  net  and  pink  taffeta?  What  on  earth  could  be  said  against  it?  [REDACTED]  replied  bitterly  that  everything  in  the  world  was  wrong  with  it;  it  had  sleeves,  it  had  a  high  neck,  it  was  revoltingly  child-  ish.  &quot;This  is  an  evening  party,  and  I  ought  to  be  wearing  an  evening  dress,&quot;  she  said.  A  tall  young  woman  came  into  the  room,  wearing  a  low-  necked  sleeveless  garment  of  pale-yellow  chiffon  with  ruffles  on  the  bodice.  You  could  see  the  divide.  &quot;'There-like  that,&quot;  [REDACTED]  whispered.  &quot;That's  what  I  ought  to  have  on.&quot;  She  was  obviously  out  of  her  head.  UT  in  the  last  analysis  I  was  on  [REDACTED]'s  side;  it  was  a  question  of  solidarity.  She  might  be  wrongheaded  about  beaded  taffeta,  but  we  were  still  companions  and  belonged  to  the  same  club.  Whether  or  not  she  liked  it,  we  were  all  to-  gether  in  the  boat-[REDACTED],  Dauph,  and  I.  To  do  [REDACTED]  justice,  she  seldom  complained  about  my  company,  though  in  her  own  mind  she  had  long  since  crossed  over  to  the  other  side.  If  she  thought  about  it  at  all,  she  probably  reflected  that  it  wouldn't  be  long  be-  foreI  joined  herover  there  and  then  I  would  stop  holding  her  back.  Summer  camp  probably  gave  me  the  necessary  push.  As  we  grew  up,  our  parents  shipped  us  off,  two  by  two,  to  a  place  on  the  northern  peninsula  of  Mich-  igan,  where  we  spent  six  weeks  of  the  endless  summer  living  under  canvas  at  the  edge  of  a  swamp,  and  learned  such  useful  artsas  shooting  with  bows  and  arrows,  decorating  birch  bark  with  por-  cupine  quills,  and  driving  mosquitoes  out  of  the  tent  with  a  smudge  pot.  We  must  have  looked  rather  odd.  We  didn't  want  to  wear  skirts,  but  slacks  and  shorts  for  women  had  not  yet  been  in-  troduced.  Bloomers  were  out  of  the  question;  bloomers  were  pass\xc3\xa9-no-  body  had  used  them  for  quite  two  years.  Instead,  we  all  wore  shirts  and  boys'  knickerbockers,  and  had  the  same  difficulty  that  boys  do  in  keeping  our  shirttails  tucked  in.  I  didn't  like  camp  very  much,  but  I  didn't  detest  it  as  much  as  I  claimed  to.  There  was  far  too  much  exercise  for  my  taste  and  very  little  time  for  read-  ing,  but  late  every  evening,  when  the  smudge  pots  had  been  lit  and  then  removed,  some  ofus  gathered  in  a  big  tent  and  listened  to  one  of  the  older  girls  reading  aloud  from  &quot;A  Girl  of  the  Lim-  berlost.&quot;  We  were  crazy  about  it.  We  all  wailed  when  it  was  finished,  and  no  wonder-Elnora's  love  affair  was  pretty  hot  stuff.  Though  I  didn't  al-  ways  grasp  the  significance  of  certain  remarks  made  by  other  girls  when  the  reader  came  to  some  particularly  tense  part-for  instance,  where  Elnora  care-  lessly  hugged  her  young  man  and  he  turned  absolutely  white  with  passion-I  pretended  to,  and  laughed  as  heartily  as  anybody.  I  soon  learned  at  camp  that  quite  a  few  of  the  girls  were  odd  in  the  same  way  [REDACTED]  was.  In  fact,  they  were  even  more  peculiar.  They  talked  incessantly  of  boys.  Going  out  with  boys  was  an  old  story  to  some  of  these  hard-bitten  maidens,  and  furthermore,  to  hear  them  tell  it,  they  had  been  in-  dulging  in  sinful  practices-driving  around  in  roadsters  and  petting-for  years.  I  went  to  [REDACTED]  and  asked  her  opinion,  and  she  shrugged  it  off.  &quot;Oh,  that's  a  fast  crowd,&quot;  she  said,  soI  went  back  and  listened  some  more.  I  learned  " b"a  lot  that  summer  at  camp,  but  I  hadn't  learned  how  to  handle  [REDACTED]  by  the  time  we  got  home.  By  now,  of  course,  [REDACTED]  was  a  vet-  eran;  she'd  been  going  out  with  boys  for  a  couple  of  years.  She  was  also  a  problem,  [REDACTED]  took  men  away  from  other  girls.  It  was  not  the  sort  of  piracy  Dorothy  committed.  Dot  swiped  peo-  ple-men,  women,  and  children-but  [REDACTED]  concentrated  on  men.  She  dis-  regarded  the  barriers  of  age  and  poached  wherever  she  liked.  How  did  she  get  away  with  it?  We  other  sisters  theorized  about  that-alone  at  first,  but  then,  as  the  menace  grew,  together.  It  was  not  easy  to  figure  out  the  an-  swer,  because  [REDACTED]'s  methods  were  not  showy.  She  didn't  come  into  a  room  and  take  a  man  by  storm,  as  it  were.  Instead,  she  seemed  to  seep  into  his  con-  sciousness.  Certainly  she  was  beauti-  ful-especially  once  she  got  away  from  home  to  the  safety  of  Smith  College  and  cut  off  those  curls  that  had  long  been  the  bane  of  her  existence-but  beauty  couldn't  account  for  everything.  [REDACTED]  took  men  away  from  other  girls  who  were  just  as  pretty.  Dauphine  thought  it  was  the  manner  in  which  she  played  the  piano,  looking  up  in  an  alluring  way  as  she  sang.  Dot  thought  it  was  some-  thing  more  heinous;  Dot  said  [REDACTED]  pawed  boys.  (Pawing  was  anathema.  It  was  fast.  A  girl  who  patted  a  man's  arm  while  talking  to  him,  or  snuggled  while  dancing,  was  pawing  him.)  I  didn't  go  as  far  as  Dot.  What  [REDACTED]  did,  I  said,  was  to  show  her  feelings-a  proceeding  I  considered  shameful-and  this  meant  that  men  were  immediately  aware  that  she  liked  them.  A  man  was  naturally  flattered  and  delighted  to  be  thus  bombarded  by  [REDACTED]  with  delicate  signs  of  affection,  or  at  least  approval.  A  man  would  naturally  fall  flat  at  her  feet,  I  said.  I  added,  &quot;I  don't  think  she  does  it  on  purpose.  It  just  happens.&quot;  The  others  scouted  my  theory-that  is,  Dorothy  and  Dauphine  did.  Rose  wasn't  in  on  these  talks  very  often,  be-  cause  she  was  away.  I  wasn't  sure  what  Mother  thought  about  the  situa-  tion.  I  suppose  it  was  still  a  case  of  am-  bivalence  with  her.  Half  the  time,  she  deplored  [REDACTED]'s  popularity,  and  the  other  half  she  was  proud  of  her.  After  a  while,  we  moved  to  [REDACTED],  and  many  things  changed.  Rose  mar-  ried.  Dot  was  engaged.  Dauphine  was  now  a  high-school  student,  like  me,and  she  started  at  once  to  go  out  with  boys,  because  such  behavior,  precocious  as  it  might  be  in  [REDACTED]  Louis,  was  the  accepted  thing  in  [REDACTED].  Daddy  grumbled  and  Mother  made  a  sour  face,  but  no-  body  put  a  stop  to  it.  I  had  already started  going  out,  if  only  just.  Dauph  and  I  followed  separate  social  paths  and  did  not  bother  each  other,  but  we  didn't  enjoy  peace  and  quiet  for  more  than  a  few  months  at  a  time.  There  was  always  the  day  of  reckoning  when,  with  a  whoop  and  a  holler,  [REDACTED]  came  home  from  college  on  vacation.  The  devastation  she  wrought  was  ap-  palling.  Talented  as  she  was  at  bowling  over  adults,  our  very  young  men  didn't  stand  a  chance.  It  was  hell,  but  I  would  never  admit  that  it  was  hell  for  me.  I  would  say  indignantly,  &quot;Dauph's  so  young,  it  isn't  fair.  A  kid  like  that  can't  possibly  hold  her  own  against  an  older  woman  like  [REDACTED].&quot;  Dauphine  took  the  poaching  with  droll  resignation,  though  I  couldn't.  Accepting  the  inevitable,  she  once  even  made  Mother  admit  there  was  dirty  work  at  the  crossroads.  Dauph  had brought  home-foolhardily-a  partic-  ularly  good  specimen,  a  man  of  more  maturity  and  charm  than  we  youngsters  usually  rated.  After  dinner,  [REDACTED]  sat  down  at  that  damn  piano  and  began  singing  bergerettes  at  him.  She  was  awfully  good  with  French  songs,  now  and  then  looking  up  and  smiling  with  her  eyes,  inviting  him  to  join  in  her  en-  thusiasm  for  them.  The  man  was  stunned.  He  stood  there  like  a  statue,  until  [REDACTED]  moved  over  on  the  piano  bench  and  asked  him  to  sit  down.  His  knees  gave  way  and  he  sat.  Mother  reported  later  to  Rose,  &quot;Dauphine  was  the  funniest  thing  I  eversaw.  She  tiptoed  up  to  him  behind  his  back,  kissed  her  fingertips,  and  touched  the  top  of  his  head  in  farewell,  then  tiptoed  out  of  the  room.&quot;  She  laughed,  but  I  didn't  see  anything  to  laugh  at.  Not  long  after  that,  [REDACTED]  decided  not  to  finish  the  four  years  at  Smith,  and  she  came  home  to  attend  daily  classes  at  the  Art  Institute,  later  taking  a  job.  What  had  been  merely  a  seasonal  men-  ace  now  loomed  over  Dauphine  and  me  all  the  time.  Everything  got  worse  and  worse.  Young  men  around  our  house  lost  whatever  identity  they  had  ever  possessed  and  were  known  simply  as  &quot;[REDACTED]'s,  formerly  Mickey's&quot;  (I  " b"was  Mickey)  or  &quot;[REDACTED]'s,  formerly  Dauph's.&quot;  It  was  all  becoming  intol-  erable,  I  reflected;  it  would  have  to  stop.  ACCORDING  to  family  legend,  I  planned  what  I  did  in  cold  blood,  but  that  is  not  true.  If  plans  formed,  they  did  it  down  in  my  subconscious.  The  way  I  remember  it,  the  idea  came  over  me  in  a  rush  on  the  day  [REDACTED]  brought  home  a  man  of  her  own,  for  a  change.  No,  that's  not  fair-she  often  found  men  outside.  'This  one  was  French,  named  Raymond  de  Something,  and  he  spoke  with  a  charming,  if  complicated,  accent  that  was  both  French  and  British,  because  he'd  been  to  school  in  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED]  addressed  him  as  &quot;Ray-monde&quot;  instead  of  Americanizing  and  calling  him  Ray,  as  most  other  girls  would  have  done.  Obviously,  she  was  delighted  with  him;  not  only  was  he  good-looking  and  very  well  mannered  but  he  was  foreign,  and  that  was  always  a  good  thing  around  our  house.  We  were  all  fascinated  by  the  world  abroad,  where  none  of  us  had  ever  been,  and  [REDACTED],  moreover,  was  exceptionally  quick  at  languages.  She  and  Raymond  kept     talking  French  at  the  table  that  first  evening,  and  after  dinner  they  read  Verlaine  and  Mallarm\xc3\xa9  to  each  other  before  getting  around  to  the  inevitable  bergerettes.  After  Raymond  had  gone,  we  all  pronounced  him  charming.  &quot;Yes,  isn't  he!&quot;  said  [REDACTED],  gratified.  I  did  not  miss  the  sparkling  eyes  and  pink  cheeks-though,  of  course,  her  eyes  would  have  sparkled  and  hercheeks  would  have  flushed  even  if  Raymond  had  been  all  wet.  [REDACTED]  never  thought  men  were  all  wet;  she  liked  every  one  of  them,  but  I  could  see  that  she  liked  Raymond  more  than  most.  She  toldus  where  she  had  got  him,  but  I  don't  re-  member  that.  Details  about  Raymond's  outside  life  did  not  interest  me,  even  later.  The  ceremonial  visit  to  the  family  had  been  polished  off,  and  the  next  time  or  two  that  Raymond  saw  [REDACTED]  it  was  downtown,  where  he  would  call  for  her  after  work  and  take  her  to  a  restaurant  or  a  show.  When  he  brought  her  home,  it  was  easy  to  see  that  he  was  in  that  state  of  dizzy  infatuation  we  all  recog-  nized  so  well.  [REDACTED]  told  me  in  confi-  dence  that  Raymond  was  sure  she  would  35     love  [REDACTED],  especially  if  she  stayed  awhile  with  his  people.  But  she  was  vague  about  that.  Life  held  so  many  possibilities  for  [REDACTED]  that  she  was  in  no  hurry  to  marry  anybody,  even  a  good-  looking  Frenchman.  &quot;Still,  he's  awfully  cute.  Isn't  he  cute?&quot;  she  said,  and  I  said  yes.  It  was  springtime.  [REDACTED]'s  other  friends  grumbled  and  complained  that  she  neglected  them,  but  [REDACTED]  spent  most  of  her  spare  time  with  Raymond.  After  two  weeks,  he  came  for  lunch  on  Sunday,  and  by  that  time  I  felt  ready  to  begin.  He  arrived  in  a  serious,  quest-  ing  mood.  Apparently,  he  felt  it  was  time  to  get  better  acquainted  with  his  wonderful  girl's  family,  and  he  set  out  to  do  it.  He  listened  to  my  father  and  mother,  laughing  when  Daddy  made  jokes  and  becoming  grave  when  Mother  was  serious.  He  was  introduced  to  Rose  and  her  husband  and  made  an  excel-  lent  impression  on  them.  He  chatted  in  the  kindestfashion  with  [REDACTED]'s  two  little  sisters,  Dauph  and  me,  asking  about  our  lessons  and  games.  I  noticed  that  he  would  avoid  looking  at  [REDACTED]  for  minutes  on  end,  then  sneak  a  quick  " b"little  glance,  like  a  man  taking  a  sip  of  refreshment.  I  was  sure  she  returned  the  glances,  but  I  didn't  look  to  see,  because  I  looked  at  nobody  and  nothing  but  Raymond.  I  stared  at  him,  and  stared  and  stared.  If  [REDACTED]  did  it-conveying  to  a  man  that  he  had  all  her  attention-I  could  do  it,  too.  I  didn't  only  stare;  I  listened.  No  matter  what  he  said,  I  hung  on  his  words.  I  thought  of  this  first  attempt  as  practice-I  never  supposed  it  would  work  right  away-but  nobody  could  have  undergone  that  fixed  stare  without  feeling  it,  and  soon  Raymond  began  to  fidget  and  cast  hunted  glances  in  my  direction.  So  far  so  good.  I  am  still  not  quite  sure  why  Raymond  didn't  simply  decide  that  [REDACTED]  had  a  lunatic  sister  and  let  it  go  at  that,  but  young  men  from  the  Continent  are  apt  to  think  the  best  of  themselves,  and  after  he'd  gone  home  that  night  he  wondered  if  he  hadn't  perhaps  made  a  deep  impression  on  an  innocent  child  who  had  then  fallen  in  love  with  him.  I  know  this;  he  told  me  so  later.  It  seemed  to  him  the  only  ex-  planation,  but  he  came  back  next  day  to  make  sure.  After  all,  what  did  he  know  about  young  American  girls?  [REDACTED]  was  at  her  office,  but  he  had  an  excuse  to  come  by-he  had  left  a  book  in  the  sitting  room.  Raymond  retrieved  his  book,  had  a  little  talk  with  me,  and  confirmed  his  suspicion.  I  was  still  star-  ing  at  him,  still  listening  raptly  when  he  spoke.  So  when  I  showed  him  out  he  whispered  quickly  the  suggestion  that  I  meet  him  next  day  at  Goethe's  statue  in  the  park.  I  didn't  have  to  counter-  feit  delight  when  I  agreed  to  this;  it  was  all  I  could  do  not  to  clap  my  hands  for  joy.  The  system  worked!  We  met  at  Goethe,  we  paced  the  nearby  paths,  Raymond  talked,  and  I  listened.  At  least,  I  assume  I  listened,  though  I  can't  recall  anything  he  said.  At  the  end  of  the  afternoon,  when  he  left  me  on  my  doorstep,  neither  of  us  proposed  that  he  come  in.  Instead,  Ray-  mond  put  his  hand  to  his  forehead,  say-  ing,  &quot;Darling,  my  mind  is  made  up.  I've  been  so  confused  I  didn't  know  what  to  do,  but  now  I've  decided.&quot;  He  thrust  out  his  chin  and  stared  dramat-  ically  over  my  head.  &quot;I  cannot  be  a  rotter,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Wait.  Do  nothing.  I  shall--&quot;  He  dashed  off  into  the  dusk  without  finishing  the  sentence,  and  I  ran  in  and  upstairs.  Any  family  but  mine  would  have  noticed  my  elation  that  night,  but  I  was  safe  with  them.  Dauphine  was  talking,  [REDACTED]  was  talking,  Daddy  was  talk-  ing-oh,  I  was  quite  safe.  But  by  the  middle  of  next  morning  things  had  start-  ed.  [REDACTED]  telephoned  from  her  office.  Mother  answered  the  ring,  listened  for  some  minutes,  and  then  came  hurry-  ing  to  say  the  call  was  for  me.  She  fol-  lowed  me  back  to  the  telephone,  talking  as  we  went:  &quot;It's  [REDACTED].  I  can't  make  head  or  tail  of  what  she's  saying-some-  thing  about  you  and  that  Frenchman,  Raymond.  But  surely  not!  What  have  you  been  up  to?  What-&quot;  By  putting  the  receiver  to  one  ear  and  my  finger  in  the  other,I  was  able  to  hear  [REDACTED]'s  voice,  but  at  first  she  was  so  excited  as  to  be  almost  incoherent.  Her  voice  shook  with  hysterical  giggles.  Calming  down,  she  said,  &quot;Raymond's  just  been  here,  and  I  still  can't  believe  it's  happened.  He  was  in  a  terrible  state.  You  little  devil.  He  burst  in  and  started  talking  before  he  got  through  the  door.  He  said,  '[REDACTED],  the  most  dreadful  thing,  but  I'm  not  a  rotter,  I'm  not  a  rotter,  I  must  tell  you  now  that  it's  Mickey  I  love.  It's  not  you.  There's  been  a  terrible  mistake,  but  I  don't  want  to  be  a  rotter.'  What  in  the  world?&quot;  She  paused  for  a  reply,  so  I  said,  &quot;Yes,  I  know  about  it.&quot;  &quot;Know  about  it?  I  should  think  you  do,&quot;  said  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  called  up  to  tell  you  it's  all  right  with  me.&quot;  Again  she  paused  for  a  reply.  I  man-  aged  to  say,  &quot;Oh?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  told  Raymond  it's  perfectly  all  right,  he  mustn't  give  it  another  thought,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;And  I  really  don't  mind  a  bit.  I  really  don't,  Mickey.&quot;  She  stopped  to  giggle.  &quot;You  little  bitch!&quot;  she  added,  and  hung  up.  I  was  left  with  the  astonishing  im-  pression  that  among  the  emotions  struggling  through  her  voice  admira-  tion  had  been  uppermost.  I  turned  away  from  the  telephone  to  face  Moth-  er,  who  had  been  thinking  fast.  She  said,  &quot;So.  It's  true,  then.  And  you  did  it  on  purpose,  didn't  you?&quot;  I  stammered  slightly,  because,  for  the  first  time,  I  was  afraid.  &quot;I  g-guess  so.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well,&quot;  said  Mother  calmly,  &quot;it  was  time  somebody  did.&quot;  I  don't  remember  what  finally  hap-  pened  to  Raymond.  "