THE  FISHING  LAKE  field,  along  the  ridge,  walking  with  a  longer,  more  assured  step  now;  she  knew  just  about  where  he  was.  She  knew  because  she  had  seen  the  jeep  parked  just  off  the  road,  where  it  got  too  soggy  to  risk  and  too  narrow  to  go  through  without  a  limb  batting  you  between  the  eyes,  and  she  stopped  the  car  about  a  stone's  throw  back  from  there.  Something  told  her  all  along  he  would  be  at  the  lake.  She  cleared  the  ridge,  and  there  he  was  just  below  her,  down  at  the  pier,  tying  up  the  boat.  He  didn't  look  up.  She  eased  herself  side-  wise  down  the  wet,  loamy  bank  that  re-  leased  the  heavy  smell  of  spring  with  every  step,  and  she  was  within  a  few  feet  of  him  before  he  said,  still  not  look-  ing  up,  &quot;There  ought  to  be  a  better  boat  down  here.  I  spent  half  the  time  bailing.  There  used  to  be  another  boat.&quot;  &quot;I  think  that's  the  same  one,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  just  that  things  get  run  down  so  in  a  little  while.  I  bet  the  Negroes  come  and  use  it;  there's  no  way  to  keep  them  from  it.&quot;  &quot;It's  gota  lock  on  it.&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  know,  they  may  just  sit  in  it  to  fish.  Either  that  or  let  the  chil-  dren  play  in  it.&quot;  He  had  found  the  mooring  chain  now;  it  grated  through  the  metal  hook  in  the  prow,  and  he  snapped  the  lock  shut  and  stepped  out  on  the  pier.  &quot;Did  you  catch  anything?&quot;  He  leaned  down  and  pulled  up  a  meagre  string-two  catfish,  a  perch,  one  tiny  goggle-eye.  &quot;The  lake  needs  draining  and  clearing  the  worst  kind.  All  around  the  bend  there's  the  worst  kind  of  silt  and  slime.  The  stink  is  going  to  get  worse.&quot;  He  paused.  &quot;Or  maybe  you'd  say  that  I'm  the  stinker.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  say  that.  I  didn't  say  any-  thing  about  it.&quot;  He  stood  with  his  back  to  her,  hands  hooked  on  his  thighs,  like  somebody  in  the  backfield  waiting  for  the  kickoff,  and  his  hair,  still  streaked  with  color-  sunburnt,  yellow  and  light  brown-  made  him  seem  a  much  younger  man  than  he  would  look  whenever  he  de-  cided  to  turn  around.  &quot;I  would  tell  you  that  I'm  going  to  quit  it,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  you  know  and  I  know  that  that  just  ain't  true.  I  ain't  ever  going  to  quit  it.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  so  much  getting  drunk.  .  ..  I  just  thought  that  coming  home  to  vist  Mama  this  way  you  might  have  put  the  brakes  on  a  little  bit.&quot;  &quot;I  intended  to.  I  honestly  did.&quot;  E  iHE  was  crossing  the  edge  of  the  &quot;And  then,  if  you  had  to  pick  some-  body  out,  why  on  earth  did  you  pick  out  Eunice  Lisles?&quot;  &quot;Who  would  you  have  approved  of?&quot;  he  asked.  He  looked  off  toward  the  sunset;  it  was  delicate  and  pale  above  the  tender,  homemade  line  of  her  late  uncle's  fishing  lake,  which  needed  draining,  had  a  leaking  boat  and  a  rick-  ety  pier.  &quot;Well,  nobody,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  a  damn-fool  question.I  meant,  by  the  cool,  sober  light  of  day,  surely  you  can  see  that  Eunice  Lisles-&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  exactly  pick  her  out,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;For  all  I  know,  she  picked  me  out.&quot;  He  lit  a  cigarette,  striking  the  kitchen  match  on  the  seat  of  his  trou-  sers.  He  began  to  transfer  the  tackle  box,  the  roach  box,  the  worm  can,  and  the  minnow  bucket  from  the  boat  to  the  pier.  He  next  took  the  pole  out  of  the  boat  and  began  to  wind  off  the  tackle.  &quot;Where  we  made  our  big  mistake  is  ever  saying  we'd  go  out.  We  came  to  [REDACTED]  to  see  your  mother,  we  should  have  stayed  with  your  mother.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  mean  if  it  gets  to  where  we  can't  accept  an  invitation-'&quot;'  &quot;It  hasn't  got  to  where  anything,&quot;  he  said  irritably.  &quot;I'm  exactly  the  same  today  asI  was  yesterday,  or  a  year  ago.  I'm  a  day  or  a  year  older.  I've  got  a  hangover  worse  than  usual.  And  I  would  appreciate  never  having  to  hear  anvthing  more  about  Eunice  Lisles.&quot;  [REDACTED]  uncle  had  made  a  bench  near  the  pier-a  little  added  thought,  so  very  like  him.  It  was  for  the  older  ladies  to  sit  on  when  they  brought  their  grandchildren  or  nieces  and  nephews  down  to  swim,  and  he  had  had  a  shel-  ter  built  over  it  as  well,  to  shade  their  heads  from  the  sun,  but  that  had  been  torn  down,  probably  by  Negroes  using  it  for  firewood.  She  remembered  play-  ing  endlessly  around  the  pier  when  one  of  her  aunts  or  her  grandfather  or  Un-  cle  Albert  himself  brought  her  down  there,  and  at  twilight  like  this  in  the  summer  seeing  the  men  with  their  Ne-  gro  rowers  come  back,  solemn  and  fast,  almost  processional,  heading  home  from  around  both  bends  in  the  lake,  shouting  AUGUST  29,  1964  from  boat  to  boat,  &quot;Whadyacatch?  Hold  up  yo'  string!  Lemme  see  'em,  man!&quot;  The  men  would  have  been  se-  cret  and  quiet  all  afternoon,  hidden  in  the  rich,  hot  thicket  quiet  of  the  brush  and  stumps,  the  Negroes  paddling  soft-  ly,  holding  and  backing  and  easing  closer,  with  hardly  a  ripple  of  the  dark  water.  Then,  at  supper  up  at  Uncle  Al-  bert's,  there  would  be  the  fish  dipped  in  cornmeal,  spitting  and  frying  in  the  iron  skillets  and  spewing  out  the  rich-  smelling  smoke,  and  platter  after  plat-  ter  of  them  brought  in  to  the  table.  You  ate  till  you  passed  out  in  those  days,  and  there  wasn't  any  drinking  to  amount  to  anything-maybe  somebody  sneaking  a  swallow  or  two  off  out  in  the  yard.  Her  husband  always  told  her  she  was  wrong  about  this,  that  she  had  been  too  young  to  know,  but  she  was  there  and  he  wasn't,  she  said,  and  ought  at  least  to  know  better  than  he  did.  What  she  really  meant  was  that  her  family  and  their  friends  and  relatives  had  been  the  finest  people  thereabouts,  and  were  noted  for  their  generosity  and  fair,  open  dealings,  and  would  never  dream  of  getting  drunk  all  the  time,  in  front  of  people.  He  might  at  least  have  remem-  bered  that  this  was  her  home  town.  She  sat  down  carefully  now  on  what  was  left  of  the  bench  her  uncle  had  made.  She  opened  her  bag.  &quot;I  brought  you  something.&quot;  It  was  a  slug  of  her  sister-in-law's  bourbon  she  had  poured  out  into  a  medicine  bottle,  sneaking  as  though  it  were  a  major  theft,  and  add-  ing  a  bit  of  water  to  the  whiskey  bottle  to  bring  the  level  up  again,  nearly  to  where  it  was.  She  knew  that  all  the  family  had  their  opinions.  In  the  house  she  had  kept  as  quiet  as  death  all  day,  and  so  had  they.  The  feeling  was  that  gossip  was  flying  around  everywhere,  just  past  the  front  gate  and  the  back  gate,  looping  and  swirling  around  them.  &quot;'That  was  nice  of  you.  By  God,  it  was.&quot;  He  began  to  move  methodically,  slowly,  holding  back,  but  his  sense  of  relief  gave  him  a  surer  touch,  so  thetop  of  the  tackle  box  came  clanging  down  in  a  short  time,  and  he  came  up  beside  her,  taking  the  small  bottle  and  un-  screwing  the  top.  &quot;Ladies  first.&quot;  He  offered  it  to  her.  She  laughed;  he  could  always  make  her  laugh,  even  if  she  didn't  want  to.  She  shook  her  head,  and  the  contents  of  the  bottle  simply  evaporated  down  his  throat.  &quot;That's  bet-  ter.&quot;  He  sat  companionably  beside  her;  they  had  to  sit  close  together  to  get  them-  selves  both  on  the  bench.  &quot;I  reckon  you  feellike  you  get  to  the  end  of  your  rope  THE  NEW  YORK43616e616461  sometimes,&quot;  he  sympa-  thized.  &quot;I  think  maybe  you  might.&quot;  She  had  too  much  of  a  hangover  herself  to  want  even  to  begin  to  go  into  de-  tail  about  what  she  felt.  &quot;I  don't  feel  any  differ-  ent  toward  you,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;In  fact,  every  time  you  do  something  like  today-  go  right  through  your  family  without  batting  an  eye,  steal  their  whiskey  for  me  out  from  under  their  noses,  and  come  down  here  to  get  your  fussing  done  in  private-I  love  you  that  much  more.  I  downright  admire  you.&quot;  She  said,  after  a  time,  &quot;You  know,  I  just  remem-  bered,  coming  down  here  up  past  the  sandpit  that  Uncle  dug  out  to  sand  the  lake  with  so  we  could  swim  with-  out  stepping  ankle-deep  in  mud,  there  was  this  thing  that  happened.  .  .  .  I  did  it;  I  was  responsible  for  it.  I  used  to  go  there  in  the  aft-  ernoons  to  geta  suntan  whenwe  used  to  come  and  stay  with  Uncle  Albert.  And  back  then  they  had  this  wild  .dog-they  thought  for  a  long  time  it  was  a  cooter,  or  some  even  said  a  bear-but  it  turned  out  to  be  a  wild  dog,  who  used  to  kill  calves.  So  one  day  I  was  lying  there  sunbathing  and  I  looked  up  and  there  was  the  dog-that  close  to  the  house!  It  scared  me  half  to  death.  I  just  froze.I  went  tight  all  over  and  would  have  screamed,  but  I  couldn't.  I  remembered  what  they  said  about  not  getting  nervous  around  animals  because  it  only  frightens  them,  so  I  didn't  say  anything  and  didn't  move,  I  just  watched.  And  after  a  while,  just  at  thetop  of  the  hill  where  the  earth  had  been  busted  open  to  get  at  the  sand,  the  dog  lay  down  and  put  its  head  on  its  paws-it  must  have  been  part  bulldog-and  watched  me.  I  felt  this  peaceful  feeling-extremely  peace-  ful.  It  stayed  there  about  an  hour  and  then  it  went  away  and  I  went  away.  So  I  didn't  mention  it.  I  began  to  doubt  if  it  had  really  seen  me,  because  I  heard  somewhere  that  dogs'  vision  is  not  like  humans',  but  I  guessed  it  knew  in  its  way  that  I  was  there.  And  the  next  time  I  went,  it  came  again.  I  think  this  went  on  for  about  a  week,  and  once  I  thought  I  would  go  close  enough  to  pat  its  head.  I  had  got  so  it  was  the  last  thing  I'd  ever  be  scared  of,  but  when  it  had  watched  me  climb  to  within  just   about  from  here  to  the  end  of  the  pier  away  from  it,  it  drew  back  and  got  up  and  backed  off.  I  kept  on  toward  it,  and  it  kept  on  drawing  back  and  it  looked  at  me-well,  in  a  personal  sort  of  way.  It  was  a  sort  of  dirty  white,  because  of  a  thin  white  coat  with  markings  under-  neath.  It  looked  partly  blue.  It  was  the  ugliest  thing  I  ever  saw.  &quot;''Then  it  killed  some  more  calves,  and  they  had  got  people  out  to  find  it,  and  more  showed  up  when  the  word  got  round,  bringing  their  guns  and  all,  and  there  was  almost  a  dance  on  ac-  count  of  it,  just  because  so  many  people  were  around.  A  dollar-pitching,  a  wa-  termelon-cutting-I  don't  know  what  all.  I  was  only  about  fifteen,  and  I  told  on  it.&quot;  &quot;Told  on  it?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  said  that  if  they  would  go  down  to  the  sandpit  at  a  certain  time  they  would  see  it  come  out  of  the  woods  to  the  top  of  the  hill  on  the  side  away  from  thehouse.  And  they  went  out  and  killed  it.&quot;  &quot;'That's  all?&quot;  &quot;'That's  all.&quot;  &quot;And  that's  the  worst  thing  you  ever  did?&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  say  that.  I  mean,  I  felt  the  worst  about  it  afterwards.&quot;  &quot;You  might  have  thought  how  those  poor  calves  felt.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  of  that.  It's  not  the  same  thing.  The  link  was  me.  I  betrayed  him.,&quot;  &quot;You  worry  about  this  all  the  time?&quot;  He  was  teasing,  somewhat.  &quot;I  hadn't  thought  of  it  in  ten  or  maybe  even  fifteen  years,  until  today,  coming  along  the  ridge  just  now.  You  can  still  see  the  sandpit.&quot;  At  that  moment,  the  bench  Uncle  Albert  had  built  to  make  those  long-  dead  ladies  comfortable  collapsed.  They  had  been  too  heavy  to  sit  on  it,  cer-  tainly,  and  shouldn't  have  tried.  As  though  somebody  had  reached  out  of  nowhere  and  jerked  a  chair  from  under  them,  just  for  a  joke,  it  spilled  them  both  apart,  out  on  the  pier.  They  began  to  laugh.  &quot;Come  out  here  next  year,&quot;  he  said,  in  his  flat-talk-  ing  [REDACTED]  way,  &quot;there  ain't  going  to  be  one  splinter  hanging  on  to  one  nail.  Even  the  bailing  can's  got  a  hole  rusted  in  it.&quot;  She  kept  on  laughing,  for  it  was  fun-  ny  and  awful  and  absolutely  true,  and  there  was  nothing  to  do  about  it. 