 b"HE  lived  alone,  in  a  room  only  she  H  had  ever  made  habitable.  Each  morning  he  awoke  to  the  same  walls  and  was  always  slightly  surprised  at  the  sameness  of  the  cracks  and  nail  holes  and  replastered  patches,  as  if  this  pattern  were  a  set  of  thoughts  to  which  a  night's  solid  meditation  had  not  added  the  merest  nick  of  a  new  idea.  He  awoke  to  the  same  ticking  clock  on  the  mock  mantel,  the  same  shivering  half-  height  refrigerator,  the  same  nagging  sour  smell  that,  behind  the  baseboard  and  around  the  sink,  had  come  to  live  with  him.  He  would  dress,  and  boil  an  egg,  and  crack  it  on  a  piece  of  toast,  and  heat  last  evening's  coffee,  and  rinse  the  plate  and  cup,  and  take  up  a  book  and  sit  and  wait.  The  chair  would  grow  suf-  focating.  The  sense  ofthe  words  would  skid  and  circle  senselessly  under  the  print.  He  would  rise,  and  walk  around  the  room,  pausing  at  every  place  where  they  had  lain  together,  staring,  as  if  terrified,  at  the  bed  that  still  bore  two  pillows.  She  was  a  nurse,  and  worked  afternoons  and  evenings,  and  used  to  come  to  him  in  the  mornings.  He  was  a  student,  but  of  what,  he  had  forgotten.  As  if  to  remember,  he  would  look  out  the  window.  Of  the  city  outside,  he  could  see  sev-  eral  brick  walls,  and  a  small  flat  roof  of  pebbles  her  bare  feet  had  consecrated    in  the  summer  past,  and  a  rusty  con-  struct  of  metal,  almost  organically  com-  plex,  that  was  a  chimney  or  avent  or  the  mouth  of  a  chute  and  that  may  or  may  not  have  been  in  use.  In  the  broad  gaps  between  brick  walls  he  could  see  a  skyline  that  had  a  gold  dome  in  it,  and  delicate  smokestacks  which  the  morning  sun  whittled  like  church  balus-  ters,  and  parallel  plumes  of  smoke  quick-  ly  indistinguishable  from  natural  clouds,  and  a  kind  of  subdued  twinkle  that  testi-  fied  to  the  world  of  activity  the  city,  like  the  surface  of  a  sea,  concealed.  At  mo-  ments  his  dull  attention  caught,  like  a  slack  sail  idly  filling,  a  breath,  from  this  multifaceted  horizon,  of  the  hope  that  set  in  motion  and  sustained  so  many  in-  dustrial  efforts,  so  much  commercial  traffic,  such  ingenious  cross-fertilization  of  profit,  such  energetic  devotion  to  the  metamorphosis  of  minerals,  the  trans-  portof  goods,  the  interplay  of  calcula-  tions,  the  efficiency  of  machines.  The  skyline  then  spread  itself  before  his  eyes  like  one  of  those  laborious  Asiatic  picto-  rial  conceits  that  compose  an  elephant  out  of  naked  maidens,  or  depict  a  tree  of  gods  whose  faintest  twig  doubles  as  a  smile  and  whose  smallest  bud  is  also  a  fingernail.  A  sense  of  human  construc-  tiveness  would  seize  him  and  try  to  lift  him  again  into  the  airy  realm  of  fresh  ideas,  eddying  notes,  scholarly  ambition, and  purpose.  The  forgotten  object  of  his  studies  would  present  itself  to  him  like  a  long\xe2\x80\x94scorned  wife  who  has  taken  a  lover  and  again  grown  beautiful.  He  would  panic  with  jealousy.  But  the  pang,  like  a  flitting  glimmer  from  something  reflec-  tive  in  the  horizon,  would  pass;  his  eyes  would  shorten  their  focus  and  he  would  leadenly  observe  how  the  rectangular  windowpanes  were  being  rounded  by  the  infringement  of  successive  layers  of  paint  carelessly  applied  to  the  mullions.  A  kind  of  demon  of  disconnection  would  abruptly  occupy  his  body,  and  he  felt  his  heart  as  an  angrily  pulsing  in-  truder,  his  hands  as  hanging  presences  weighted  with  blood  sent  from  a  great  distance.  He  realized  within  himself  the  intricate  scaffolding  of  mechanical  con-  nection  and  chemical  cooperation  that  upheld  his  life,  and  felt  its  complexity  as  a  terrible  tenuousness.  He  would  go  to  the  sofa  and  lift  one  of  the  cushions.  There,  in  a  dingy  sanctum  of  uphol-  stery,  lay  a  few  long  hairs,  almost  in-  visible  on  the  black  cloth.  He  would  study  them  as  if  to  re-create  the  head  from  which  they  had  strayed,  and  the  face  that  had  masked  this  head  with  a  soul,  and  the  body  that  had  given  this  soul  extension  into  the  solid  splendor  of  the  earth.  By  picking  up  one  hair  and  holding  it  to  the  light  he  could  de-  tect  a  faint  ghost  of  the  golden  color  that  often  had  spilled,  a  vivid  gift,  across  his  bare  shoulders.  He  would  replace  the  hair,  and  restore  the  cushion,  as  spinsters  press  a  flower  intoa  Bible.  The  room  was,  if  anything,  bigger  than  it  needed  to  be.  When  he  sat  and  tried  to  read,  the  unused  space  seemed  to  watch  him  with  eyes  of  knobs  and  nail  holes  and  knotted  configurations  in  the  carpet.  The  space  cried  for  an-  other  person  to  occupy  it.  Two  had  just  fitted  in  this  room;  their  voices  had  flattened  the  walls,  pressed  thefurniture  back  into  its  servile  state  of  being  wood  and  cloth,  submerged  the  shuddering  of  the  refrigerator  and  the  ticking  of  the  clock.  When  he  opened  the  door  to  her  (She  always  looked  a  little  startled  and  wary,  but  why?  Who  could  she  expect  it  to  be  but  him?),  his  heart  would  fill  his  chest  so  tightly  he  had  to  hold  her  against  him,  like  a  compress,  for  minutes  while  the  threat  of  its  bursting  subsided.  From  the  first,  their  embrace  had  seemed  predetermined.  His  hands  al-  ways  went  to  the  same  places  on  her  back,  one  at  the  nape  of  her  neck,  the  other  at  the  base  of  her  spine.  Always  he  rested  his  face  on  the  same  side  of  her  head,  so  that  for  all  he  knew  now  she  might  have  worn  a  different  perfume  behind  the  other  ear.  The  perfume  he  " b"inhaled  was  powdery,  a  hushed  fragrance  less  of  flowers  than  of  spice,  strangely  far  away  in  the  tingling  mansion  of  her  hair,  and  tinged,  perhaps  only  in  his  imagination,  with  a  sweet  tang  left  from  the  hospi-  tal  corridors.  She  was  clean,  beautifully  clean,  and  he  had  associated  this  also  with  her  work  in  the  hospital,  work  which,  it  seemed  to  him,  in  its  daily  experience  of  bodies  en-  abled  her  to  accept,  so  totally,  so  frontally,  his  own.  Usually  she  would  be  wear-  ing  a  street  dress  when  she  came,  blue  or  green  or  brown,  and  when  she  left,  at  noon,  she  would  be  wearing  a  nurse's  white  uniform.  Between  these  two  costumes  there  was  a  third,  when  she  was  clothed  in  herself;  so  that  the  morn-  ing,  which  in  the  days  before  she  first  came  had  been  so  single  in  its  purpose  and  so  monotonous  in  its  execution,  became  instead  a  triptych,  whose  two  side  panels,  when  her  footsteps  had  receded  down  the  stairs  and  the  outer  door  of  the  building  had  closed  behind  her,  folded  in  memory  over  the  central  panel,  whose  beauty  could  not  be  remembered  but  had  to  be,  each  time,  revealed.  In  time,  the  very  hours  took  their  tint  from  the  pattern  of  her  visits,  the  hour  after  nine  being  blue  or  green  or  brown,  the  hour  after  that  tan  and  blond  and  pink  and  pale,  and  the  final  hour,  the  most  hurried,  often  a  few  quick  minutes,  sheer  white,  like  the  flash  that  engulfs  the  screen  when  the  film  has  run  out  and  clatters  loosely  in  the  projector.  Perhaps  because  these  minutes  were  closest  to  him,  across  the  long  gap  that  separated  him  from  her  last  visit,  he  saw  them  most  distinctly-the  square  folds  of  her  starched  blouse,  the  sud-  den  bun  she  composed  with  the  hairpins  theycould  find,  the  flat  white  shoes  and  plain  cotton  stockings  that,  in  inno-  cently  shaping  her  calves  and  starkly  emphasizing  her  female  solidity,  revived  the  erotic  fire  her  natural  body,  in  its  lazy  naturalness,  had  damped.  He  loved  her  in  her  uniform,  and  on  the  occasions  when  he  had  ventured  into  the  hospital  for  a  glimpse  of  her  he  felt  in  the  corridors  of  identically  uniformed  women  as  if  he  were  raiding  a  harem,  or  a  cloister  ofthe  lascivious  nuns  who  throng  French  pornography.  'There  was,  in  her  rising  from  beside  him  to  don   white,  something  blasphemous  and  yet  holy,  a  reassumption  of  virginity  em-  blematic  of  the  (to  a  man)  mystical  in-  violability  of  a  woman.  It  was  like  nothing  else  inhis  experience.  A  book,  once  read,  can  only  be  reread;  a  ma-  chine,  used,  imperceptibly  wears  out.  But  she,  his  magical  nurse,  came  to  him  always  beautifully  clean,  and  unexperi-  enced,  and  slightly  startled,  like  a  morn-  ing,  and  left,  at  noon,  immaculate.  Dressed  otherwise,  she  was  in  com-  parison  disappointing.  Often  she  left  her  heels  and  silk  stockings  and  street  dress  behind  in  his  room,  as  a  pledge  to  return.  Their  presence  was  not  as  satis-  fying  as  it  should  have  been;  there  was  an  unease  surrounding  them,  a  vague  request  to  be  explained  and  justified.  And  when,  in  the  night,  she  returned,  and  passed  from  the  uniform  into  them,  it  was  a  descent.  Dressed  as  other  wom-  en,  she  became  one  of  them,  a  woman  who  sat  in  restaurants,  and  ate  the  food,  anddrank  sometimes  too  much,  and  nervously  crossed  and  recrossed  the  legs  self-consciously  lengthened  by  high  spike  heels,  and  talked  a  little  awry.  He  impossibly  expected  of  her  conversation  the  same  total  frontal  fit  her  body  gave  him.  The  woman  separated  from  him  by  a  restaurant  table  was  a  needless  addition  to  the  woman  who  was  per-  fect;  she  wished  to  add  needlessly  to  the  love  that  needed  nothing  but  end-  less  continuance.  It  was  this  woman  who  hinted  of  marriage,  and  it  was  this  woman  who,  in  the  dim  restaurant  light,  misread  his  word  &quot;unable&quot;  to  mean  &quot;unwilling,&quot;  and  took  offense.  These  evenings  with  her,  which  end-  ed  sharply  and  chastely  at  midnight,  when  the  curfew  fell  in  the  supervised  apartment  where  she  lived,  were  less  than  entirely  real  and  blended  with  the  cramped  dreams  that  dissolved  un-  der  the  triumphal  advent  of  morning.  Morning  brought  him  onto  another  plane  altogether,  as  when  one  looks  up  from  a  crowded  printed  page  to  a  pale  door  upon  which  a  knock  has  just  sounded.  Awake,  he  would  gratefully  drink  the  radiance  that  renewed  every  detail  of  his  room,  and  rise,  and  shed  his  dreams,  and  make  enough  fresh  coffee  for  them  both,  and  begin  to  listen.  The  outer  door  downstairs  would  softly  open;  there  was  an  alto  squeak  only  she  produced  from  the  hinges.  Her  first  steps  on  the  flight  of  stairs  would  be  " b"inaudible.  Her  stealth  seemed  the  airy  lightness  of  expectation.  Her  feet  would  press  the  top  treads  firmly,  evenly,  like  piano  pedals;  an  abrasive  slither  would  cross  the  linoleum  hall;  and  her  knock,  three  blurred  beats  with  an  inquisitive  pause  between  the  second  and  the  third,  would  sound.  E  listened  now.  The  downstairs  door  opened.  In  the  little  skip  of  silence  following  the  squeak  of  the  hinges,  his  heart  found  space  to  erect  a  towering  certainty,  which  toppled  as  the  first  brutal,  masculine  steps-boot  steps-assaulted  the  stairs.  Still,  perhaps  she  was  wearing  galoshes,  perhaps  in  the  empty  months  her  manner  of  mounting  had  changed,  perhaps  she  was  angry,  or  rigid  with  determination,  or  heavy  with  fright.  He  noiselessly  went  to  his  door,  his  hand  lifted  to  turn  the  knob.  The  footsteps  slithered  on  the  linoleum  and  passed  by.  He  felt  relieved.  He  had  lived  so  long  with  the  vain  expectatlon  of  her  coming  that  it,  the  expectation,  had  become  a  kind  of  companion  he  was  afraid  of  losing.  He  stared  at  the  wall,  dumbstruck  by  its  stupidity.  He  turned  sick  of  himself,  physically  sick,  so  that  his  arms  ached  and  his  stomach  fell  and  the  nagging  sour  smell  behind  the  base-  board  seemed  the  odor  of  his  own  rot-  ting  body.  He  returned  to  the  chair  and  tried  to  study.  The  outer  door  opened  again,  deli-  cately  this  time.  His  heartbeats  timed  the  silence.  He  saw  her,  dressed  in  blue  or  green  or  brown,  ascending  the  diago-  nal  corridor  toward  him,  her  lips  a  little  parted  in  the  effort  of  stealth,  her  hand,  slightly  reddened  and  bony  from  anti-  septic  scrubbings,  lightly  touching  the  wall  for  balance.  The  silence  length-  ened,  lengthened  beyond  recall,  and  he  forced  himself  to  admit  that  there  was  no  one  on  the  stairs,  that  the  wind  ora  child  had  idly  opened  the  door  from  out-  side  and  let  it  fall  shut.  He  rose  from  the  chair  in  a  rage;  why  didn't  she  know,  know  how  he  wanted  her  now,  not  in  white,  but  in  blue  or  green  or  brown?  This  was  the  woman  he  want-  ed,  the  woman  much  like  other  women,  the  woman  who  talked  awry  in  restau-  rants,  who  wanted  to  marry  him,  the  woman  who  came  to  himand  not  the  woman,  in  white,  who  left.  He  had  ac-  cepted  her  leaving  because  of  the  pledge  to  return  she  left  behind,  the  clothes  that  at  last  he  recognized  as  her  essen-  tial  clothes,  the  everyday  clothes  that  contained  her  other  costumes,  as  skin  is  beneath  all  cloth  and  white  is  the  spin  of  all  colors.  He  had  dreaded  in  mar-  riage  the  loss  of  their  mornings,  their  transposition  into  the  shadowy  scale  of   night.  But  she  had  not  explained  to  him  that  the  mornings  were  a  gift,  an  ex-  travagance  on  her  part  which  could  be  curtailed.  She  had  been  stupid  not  to  explain  this,  and  she  was  stupid  now  not  to  know  that  he,  lagging  behind  her  a  distance  of  months,  had  followed  in  the  steps  of  her  love  and  now  had  reached  the  exact  point  she  had  reached  when  they  had  last  parted,  and  that  she  had  only  to  stop,  and  turn,  and  take  one  step  up  the  stairs  to  meet  him.Yes,  she  was  stupid,  hasty,  and  even  cruel  not  to  know  his  heart,  not  to  hear  the  great  cry  issuing  from  this  room;  and  this  blunt  vision  of  her  limitations  failed  to  dull  his  love  but  instead  dreadfully  sharpened  it,  for  love  begins  in  earnest  when  we  love  what  is  limited.  &quot;My  nurse,&quot;  he  whispered  aloud,  at  last  putting  forth,  in  conscious  competi-  tion  with  the  tiny  notched  sighing  of  the  clock,  the  shuddering  of  the  refrigerator,  and  the  empty  scratches  of  sound  in  the  stairway  and  hallway,  a  sound  of  his  own.  This  speaking,  this  invoking  her  aloud,  was  the  only  action  he  was  capa-  ble  of  taking.  To  seek  her  out  would  be  to  risk  the  final  refusal  which  the  silence  withheld.  To  leave  the  room  would  be  to  abandon  the  possibility  of  meeting her  visit.  Even  to  install  a  telephone  would  be  to  heap  another  silence  upon  the  furious  silence  of  the  stairs  and  of  the  doors.  He  did  nothing.  He  did  nothing  all  morning  but  maintain,  with  the  full  strength  of  his  scattered  mind  and  disconnected  body,  an  unanswered  vigil.  At  noon,  the  day's  reprieve  arrived.  She  could  not  come  now.  She  would  be  at  work.  His  strenuous  wrestle  with  her  absence  could  be  suspended,  and  did  not  need  to  be  resumed  until  tomorrow  morning.  Perhaps  tomorrow  he  would  be  weaker  and,  therefore,  less  caring,  stronger.  He  felt  that  these  mornings  were  aging  him;  he  looked  in  the  mirror  for  traces  of  the  strange  painless  pain  that  punished  him,  like  a  punctual  mas-  seur,  for  three  hours  each  day.  The  mirror,  too,  was  unanswering.  If  any-  thing  were  to  show,  it  would  be  in  the  eyes,  and  one's  eyes,  self-confronted,  lose  all  expression.  His  frame  slowly  re-  laxed,  and  ceased  to  feel  his  heart  as  an  intruder.  Like  someone  dressing  in  clothes  wildly  scattered  about  on  the  night  before,  he  couldreassemble  his  presence  and  leavethe  room.  He  could  enter  the  twinkling  city,  eat,  keep  ap-  pointments,  confront  people,  confident  that  his  outward  appearance  had  not  altered,  that  just  as  his  bodyhad  refused  to  burst  in  its  fullness  before,  so  now  it  failed  to  collapse  in  its  emptiness.  Re-  suming,  in  part,  a  student's  detached  interestedness,  he  heard  himself  talk,  give  answers,  even  laugh.  He  saw,  with  a  blurring  double  sense  of  beinga  fraud  and  defrauded  both,  that  a  presentable  life  could  be  patched  together  out  of  afternoons  and  evenings.  But  his  morn-  ings  had  been  destroyed,  and  the  morn-  ing  of  his  life  taken  from  him."