 b"I AM  sitting  on  the  edge  of  the  land-  I  ing,  my  feet  dangling,  the  sun  hot  on  my  back,  and  I  am  pretending  to  fish.  But  I  am  really  doing  what  everybody  else  does;  I  am  watching  the  German  family  and  their  bright-  red  motorboat.  'The  father-they  call  him  Vatti-is  now  taking  everything  out  of  the  boat  and  throwing  it  to  the  girl,  whom  they  call  Karina.  She  stands  about  three  steps  to  the  left  of  me,  and  what  a  catcher  she  is!  She  hasn't  dropped  a  single  item  so  far.  They  are  obviously  planning  to  clean  the  whole  thing  to-  day.  But  first  they  must  empty  it.  Any  idiot  can  see  that.It  can't  be  done  any  other  way.  They  are  a  family  of  four,  and  the  stuff  they  keep  in  that  boat!  Pairs  and  pairs  of  flippers,  masks,  snorkels,  sneak-  ers,  extra  bathing  suits  and  towels,  rub-  ber  cushions,  inflatable  mattresses,  as  well  as  books-heavy,  well-bound  vol-  umes.  No  paperbacks  for  them.  Now  he  throws  her  a  large  picnic  basket.  Will  she  catch  it?  Of  course  she  will.  She  is  a  big,  strong  girl,  with  good  if  slightly  heavy  legs.  She  is  fifteen,  or  maybe  only  fourteen;  it  is  hard  to  tell  with  that  fig-  ure.  Her  hair  is  ash  blond  and  short,  and  she  wears  a  one-piece  swim  suit-sensi-  ble,  with  strong  shoulder  straps  to  keep  her  bosom  in  place-and  she  stands  there,  legs  slightly  apart,  like  a  goal-  keeper  waiting  for  the  ball.  Vatti  is  a  good  pitcher.  V  atti  is  obviously  her  V  ati,  no  doubt  about  that.  They  look  very  much  alike,  and  they  know  it  and  are  fond  of  each  other.  They  are  silent  and  concentrated  upon  their  task,  and  they  smile  only  from  time  to  time.  A  pairof  gloves,  two  pairs  of  sunglasses,  a  plastic  bag  half  full  of  grapes-all  that  flies  through  the  air.  For  God's  sake,  when  will  they  stop?  I  think  that's  all  now.  Vatti  is  heaving  out  the  water  skis.  They  all  water-ski:  Vatti,  Mutti,  Karina,  and  the  boy.  The  boy's  name  is  Wiktor.  They  must  have  named  him  after  Stalingrad-some  joke.  Nonsense,  he  is  too  old  for  that.  Maybe  they  named  him  after  their  victory  in  [REDACTED].  That  would  make  him  twen-  ty-five.  Or  Czechoslo-  vakia.  That  would  make  him  exactly  my  age.  I  am  twenty-six,  and  half  the  size  of  Karina.  Skinny,  very  little  bosom,  very  narrow  hips.  They  tell  me  I  was  underfed  during  the  Occupation.  It's  a  miracle  my  legs  are  straight,  with  the  rickets  I  must  have  had.  But  straight  they  are,  thank  God,  and  not  bad  at  all.  Karina  has  jumped  into  the  boat  now;  she  and  Vatti  are  taking  the  seats  out,  and  they  begin  to  mop  with  sponges.  Where  the  hell  is  Wiktor-couldn't  he  help?  It  is  getting  hotter,  and  they  are  both  perspiring.  So  am  I,  with  the  scorching  sun  on  my  bare  back.  I  should  do  some-  thing  about  my  godforsaken  fishing  rod.  The  bait  has  long  ago  disappeared.  Those  Swiss  fishes,  they  have  a  way  of  nimbly  nibbling  that  is  infuriating-like  their  compatriots.  I  hate  the  worms  I  am  using  for  bait.  It  took  me  an  hour  to  find  out  what  they  call  worms  in  Ital-  ian.  Strange  country,  [REDACTED].  In  [REDACTED],  they  speak  nothing  but  French,  and  here  on  the  Lake  of  Lugano,  noth-  ing  but  Italian.  Anyway,  the  word  for  worms  is  &quot;cagnoti,&quot;  and  they  are  expen-  sive.  They  are  imported  from  some  far-  away  place,  and  sold  by  the  dozen.  I  have  three  left,  and  not  a  fish  in  the  can.  I  got  the  tin  can  from  the  hotel  cook.  It  contained  ice  cream,  and  I  had  to  wait  two  days  till  the  can  was  finally  empty,  and  then  he  took  two  francs  for  it,  the  jerk.  I  watched  all  the  tables  carefully  at  mealtimes  to  see  if  people  were  ordering  ice  cream  for  des-  sert,  and  naturally,  just  because  I  wanted  that  can  so  badly,  everybody  suddenly  wanted  frutta  fresca  or  creme  caramel,  but  not  gelati.  Mutti  has  shown  up.  She  never  shows   up  before  eleven.  Looks  after  herself.  Mutti  is  slim  and  not  bad-looking  at  all,  with  dark  hair  and  an  olive  complexion.  She  doesn't  look  German.  She  looks  French  or  Italian  or  Jewish.  That  would  be  funny-a  Jewish  Mutti.  In  [REDACTED],  during  the  Occupation,  she  would  have  been  in  plenty  of  trouble.  With  a  face  like  that,  you  could  have  been  as  Aryan  as  Adolf's  own  mother  and  still  be  in  trouble.  But  then,  they  live  in  a  small  Bavarian  town  where  everybody  probably  knows  who  is  who.  I  know;  I  looked  at  their  registration  plate.  They  drive  a  Mercedes  300.  Red.  Mutti  carries  an  enormous  beach  bag-loaded  with  cosmetics,  I  bet.  And  books.  They  are  big  readers.  Vatti  sees  her  now,  and  jumps  to  thelanding.  A  good  jump;  the  whole  structure  shakes.  Vatti  is  a  fine  specimen  of  a  Vaett.  Tall  and  strong,  not  an  ounce  of  fat  on  him,  not  a  gray  hair  in  his  blond  crew  cut.  He  gets  one  of  those  folding  chaise  longues  for  Mutti,  and  carries  it  to  the  edge  of  the  lake  just  by  the  boat.  Mutti  stretches  herself  full  length  on  her  tum-  my,and  Vatti  covers  her  back  with  sun  lotion  from  a  big,  brown  plasticbottle.  The  long,  jagged  sear  on  his  back  stands  out  as  he  bends  over.  No  operation  scar  this  but  a  fine,  distinguished  battle  scar,  to  be  sure.  It's  a  pity  it's  on  the  back,  though;  the  scars  of  cowards  are  on  the  back.  Who  in  heaven's  name  said  that?  I  can  never  remember  who  has  said  what.  That  comes  from  reading  all  the  phrase  books.  One  reads  the  quotations  and  skips  the  names  of  the  authors.  That's  my  trouble.  I  am  not  thorough  enough.  I  shall  remain  cabin  interpreter  in  the  U.N.  [REDACTED]  office  until  I  shrivel  up  and  get  my  old-age  pension-or  until  I  slip  upone  day,  probably  on  one  of  those  new  African  del-  egates,  the  underdevel-  oped  ones,  who  are  really  touchy.  Vatti  goes  back  to  his  beautiful  red  boat,  where  Karina  is  now  scrubbing  the  floor  like  a  good  and  true  Hausfrau.  He  nearly  tripped  over  my  big  ice-  cream  can,  and  said,  &quot;Verzethen  Sie,  bitte,&quot;  looked  at  me,  quickly  added,  &quot;Excusez-moi,&quot;  and  smiled.  I  said  &quot;Pas  de  quoi,&quot;  and  smiled  back.  If  he  only  knew  how  well  I  know  his  sweet  mother  tongue,  and  where  and  how  I  learned  it.  As  a  kid,  " b" of  course.  Kids  learn  quick-  ly,  nicht  wahrt  I  used  to  talk  to  the  guards.  They  sometimes  threw  me  a  pota-  to  or  two,  and  sometimes  a  kick.  I  learned  more  quick-  ly  after  they  took  Mother  away,  because  while  she  could  still  stand  on  her  feet  she  wouldn't  let  me  run  around.  Every  child  should  learn  foreign  languages;  that  would  bring  the  world  closer  together,  they  say.  Languages  are  a  treasure.  Treasure  or  not,  that  is  all  I  know,  and  so  far  it  has  come  in  handy:  French,  German,  and  English.  Eng-  lish  I  learned  even  faster  than  German.  That  was  when  the  Americans  took  the  camp  over.  I  also  know  my  own  language,  Polish,  but  I  don't  geta  chance  to  use  it  very  often-some-  times,  when  a  Polish  delega-  tion  arrivesfor  some  con-  ference  and  they  assign  me  to  it.  Look  who  is  here-Wik-  tor,  the  son  and  heir.  He  walks  down  the  beach  in  his  G  string,  his  muscles  rolling  under  his  tanned  skin,  He  looks  like  an  advertisement  for  a  virility  medicine.  Small  head,  strong  neck.  Everybody  is  watching  him  now.  Men,  women;  only  children  and  dogs  ignore  him.  He  flashes  Mutti  a  broad  smile  and  comes  and  stands  over  me  and  makes  remarks  to  Vatti  and  Karina.  I  have  to  pull  out  my  fishing  line  and  put  a  fresh  cagnott  on  the  hook.  Even  if  I  seriously  wanted  to  fish,  there  isn't  a  chance  now,  with  all  the  mess  Vatti  and  Karina  are  making  in  the  water.  They  are  rinsing  out  their  sponges  and  brushes,  and  the  water  is  filthy  and  full  of  soap  bubbles.  The  French  ladies  sit-  ting  in  their  deck  chairs  take  notice  and  get  angry.  This  hotel  has  mostly  French  and  Belgian  families,  with  their  children  and  their  poodles.  My  Germans  are  the  only  Germans,  and  they  have  the  only  private  motorboat  in  the  place.  Hell,  they  are  making  a  mess!  Somebody  should  tell  them  they  haven't  won  the  war,  after  all.  Maybe  I  am  the  one  who  should  tell  them.  Maybe  I,  Hanna  Ko-  walska,  should  appoint  myself  a  Delega-  tion  of  One,  and  tell  them  very  diplo-  matically  that  they  haven't  won  the  war.  Wiktor  is  now  looking  down  at  me  while  I  fumble  with  my  cegnots,  orper-  haps  it  is  &quot;cegnoto&quot;  in  the  singular,  I  don't  know;  I  haven't  had  a  chance  to  learn  Italian.  This  cagnoto  is  an  especial-  ly  wriggly  and  stubborn  one.  Wiktor  asks  me-in  English,  of  course-if  I  need  help.  They  all  speak  English  these  days;  French  is  out  as  an  international  language,  I  understand.  I  thank  him.  I  tell  him  I  think  I  can  manage,  and  I  do,  and  the  hook  goes  straight  into  my  thumb.  But  I'll  be  damned  if  I  make  a  face.  The  cagnoto  is  on  the  hook  all  right,  and  before  I  can  make  up  my  mind  how  to  shove  Wiktor  off,  and  before  I  get  a  chance  to  throw  the  line  into  the  soapy  water  of  Lago  di  Lugano,  there  is  a  fine  beginning  of  a  fine  scene.  A  Frenchman  in  bathing  trunks,  bowlegged,  with  a  huge  belly  sticking  out  in  front  of  him,  is  telling  Vatti  in  an  excited  voice  that  Vatti  is  messing  up  the  whole  lake,  that  he  doesn't  own  the  whole  place,  that  it's  bad  for  the  chil-  dren-and  a  few  other  things.  Every-  body  is  looking  openly  now  from  his  deck  chair.  No  need  to  pretend  to  be  reading  or  sleeping  now.  Vatti  draws  himself  up.  The  two  men  stand  for  a  moment  facing  each  other.  They  must  be  more  or  less  the  same  age-forty-  five  or  six.  Vatti,  lean  and  muscular  and  tanned  all  over,  with  that  fine,  jagged  scar  on  his  strong  back,  and  the  French-  man,  the  Committee  of  One,  bow-  legged,  with  his  belly  like  a  drum.  Hell,  a  scene  in  bathing  costumes  is  bound  to  peter  out.  Vatti  is  polite;  he  apologizes  and  promises  never  again  to  make  a  mess  of  the  Swiss  lakes.  The  Frenchman  is  red  in  the  face  and  furious,  because  Vatti  doesn't  give  him  an  argument.  He  is  de-  flated  and  walks  slowly  and  indignantly  back  to  his  chair,  his  wife,  and  his  child,  murmuring  under  his  breath  about  Boches  and  Lago  Tedesco  and  the  fact  that  it  is  impossible  to  spend  a  holiday  anywhere  in  Europe  without  having  it  messedup  by  Boches.  All  the  while,  Wiktor  hasn't  stopped  looking  down  at  me  and  my  fishing  rod.  My  skin  begins  to  crawl.  I  look  quickly  at  my  left  forearm  to  see  that  the  heavy  Moroccan  silver  bracelet  I  wear  is  cov-  ering  the  number  tattooed  there.  It  is.  Karina  has  stopped  working  during  the  short  exchange  of  opinions  between  her  papa  and  the  Frenchman,  and  now  Vatti  is  saying  something  quickly  in  clipped,  military  tones.  Wiktor  is  ordered  on  deck,  and  they  start  putting  everything  into  place,  with  Karina  throwing  this  time  and  Wiktor  catching  and  Vatti  ranging.  Fine  teamwork.  All  the  peo-  ple  on  the  beach  are  watching,  the  same  as  I.  Whether  they  are  making  con-  versation  or  pretending  to  read  books  or  knitting  or  leafing  through  magazines,  " b" they  are  really  watching  the  Germans,  day  in  and  day  out.  I  get  up,  put  together  my  fishing  par-  aphernalia,  and  go  to  my  chair.  My  thumb  is  sore,  and  I  am  dying  to  suck  it  in  peace.  I  open  my  copy  of  &quot;The  For-  syte  Saga&quot;-which  I  reread  every  year  on  my  holiday-settle  down  with  it,  and  shove  my  thumb  into  my  mouth.  I  read  a  few  sentences  about  Soames'  specula-  tions  in  gilt  edges  and  peer  over  the  pages  to  see  what  is  going  on.  'They  are  now  piling  some  folding  chairs  and  a  huge  picnic  into  the  boat,  and  soon  the  whole  family,  all  four  of  them,  climb  in  and  zoom  off.  They  must  have  discov-  ered  an  island,  the  bastards,  where  they  can  be  alone  and  unobserved,  where  they  probably  bathe  in  the  nude,  bask  in  the  sun,  and  talk  out  loud  in  German  as  much  as  they  like.  They  stop  the  boat  in  the  middle  of  the  lake,  and  go  water-  skiing  in  turn,  showing  a  fine  style,  es-  pecially  Vatti  and  Karina.  Then  they  disappear  from  sight.  The  hotel  beach  changes  immediate-  ly.  People  make  loud  conversation  in  French,  begin  to  play  ping-pong,  ad-  monish  their  children,  let  their  dogs  off   their  leashes,  andgo  into  the  water,  to  swim.  THE  Germans  don't  show  up  again  until  the  hour  of  the  ap\xc3\xa9ritif.  It  is  an  unusually  hot  afternoon,  muggy  and  oppressive.  'The  French  and  Belgian  families  sit  limply  around  the  little  tables  in  the  hotel  garden,  sipping  their  Per-  nods  and  their  fixes  &amp;  Peau,  letting  their  children  have  a  sip  or  two,  their  dogs  panting  under  their  chairs.  I  descend,  refreshed  by  a  nap  in  my  room,  my  Galsworthy  under  my  arm,  and  clad  in  my  new,  white  Irish-linen  dress.  The  Germans  have,  as  usual,  occupied  the  only  swinging  settee,  have  carried  over  a  table  and  two  comfortable  chairs,  and      are  drinking  tall  glasses  of  beer.  They  are  all  dressed  up,  and  they  don't  seem  to  suffer  from  the  heat.  Vatti  is  in  gray  flannels  and  blue  blazer,  witha  white  shirt,  and  a  gray-and-white  polka-dot  ascot  around  his  neck.  Mutti  is  in  printed  silk,  Karina  in  broderie  anglaise  and  looking  suddenly  outsize,  and  Wiktor  in  short  white  shorts  and  blue  polo  shirt.  They  are  looking  at  illustrated  maga-  zines,  talking,  laughing,  and  listening  to  Viennese  waltzes  from  a  transistor  radio.  I  sit  at  a  small  table,  ordera  Campari,  and  disappear  behind  my  sun-  glasses.  They  must  be  rolling  in  mon-  ey;  that's  how  they  look-all  wrapped  up  in  good,  solid  Deutsche  Mark.  They  look  so  much  more  prosperous  than,  for  instance,  my  Committee-of-One  Frenchman,  M.  Carnot,  who  runs  a  prosperous  furniture  business  in  Rouen.  I  know  himand  his  wife  from  last  year's  stay,  and  only  last  night  Mme.  Carnot,  who  does  her  own  cooking,  has  very  graciously  given  me  the  great  secret  of  her  famous  sauce  vinaigrette.  You  add  one  tablespoonful  of  dry  red  wine,  and  beat  the  whole  thing  with  a  silver  fork  for  five  minutes.  I  must  remember  to  " b"beat  mine  with  a  silver  fork  the  next  time  Tom  comes  to  dinner,  and  we  shall  see  if  he  will  stop  discussing  Proust  and  Kafka  and  making  passes  at  me  long  enough  to  praise  it.  Mutti  is  pulling  an  American  ciga-  rette  from  a  full  pack  now,  and  Vatti  is  bending  over  to  light  it  forher.  They  have  a  better  and  deeper  tan  than  any-  body  else,  That's  the  motorboat.  Every-  body  has  already  said  so.  Everybody  would  have  liked  to  take  a  ride  in  that  boat,  or  at  least  let  the  children  have  a  whirl  or  two.  It  is  good  for  the  circu-  lation.  The  wind  does  it.  Wind  on  your  skin,  that's  the  secret.  One  can,  of  course,  take  the  car  and  go  down  to  Lugano  and  hire  a  motorboat  for  an  hour  or  two.  But  it's  too  much  trouble.  Not  the  same  thing  at  all.  People  are  mopping  their  brows,  finishing  their  drinks,  and  finding  fault  with  their  chil-  dren.  The  dogs  keep  quietly  out  of  sight.  Wiktor  is  getting  restless,  and  is  look-  ing  around.  He  looks  at  me.  I  read.  He  can't  possibly  know  that  I  am  watch,  ing  him  from  behind  my  glasses.  It  is  a  trick  I  learned  fromsome  of  the  dele-  gates  in  [REDACTED];  they  do  all  sorts  of  " b"things  under  the  protection  of  dark  glasses,  which  they  wear  under  thepre-  text  of  sheltering  their  eyes  from  the  glaring  lights  of  the  Assembly  Hall.  They  watch  other  delegates  unobserved,  and  often  they  go  quietly  to  sleep.  Wik-  tor  looks  me  up  and  down.  Thank  heaven  Tom  is  coming  tomorrow.  I  might  ask  him  to  take  me  to  Ascona  for  the  rest  of  the  holiday.  This  place  is  definitely  too  hot.  Wiktor  hasgot  up  now.  He  stretches  himself  like  a  lazy  dog.  He  passes  by  my  table,  and  bows  from  the  waist,  while  looking  me  over  carefully.  I  feel  that  he  wants  to  ask  me  to  go  to  the  village  withhim.  I  quickly  turn  the  page  and  submerge  myself  in  Soames'  troubles  with  Irene.  He  has  passed  by.  He  will  probably  get  more  magazines  from  the  local  tabac.  An  hour  later,  everybody  goes  up  to  his  room  to  get  ready  for  dinner,  which  is  at  seven.  The  heat  is  worse  than  ever,  and  the  shirts  of  the  men  cling  to  their  backs.  When  we  all  come  down  to  the  dining  room  again,  nobody  has  changed  ex-  cept  our  friends  the  Germans.  Vatti  is  in  navy-blue  serge,  Wiktor  in  Prince  de  Gaulle,  and  the  ladies  inpastel  cr\xc3\xa9pes.  Vatti  motions  to  Mario,  the  Italian  wine  waiter,  whom  Tom  called  &quot;old  bean&quot;  all  last  summer,  which  flattered  the  dope  no  end  until  he  took  the  trouble  to  have  it  translated  into  Italian.  Translated  literal-  ly,  it  certainly  doesn't  have  the  affectionate  connotation  of  the  English  version.  When  we  left,  we  had  to  give  him  an  outsize  tip  to  be  forgiven.  Now,  at  the  Germans'  table,  he  waves  his  arms,  speaks  at  length  in  pidgin  German,  and  to  everybody's  silent  astonish-  ment  goes  off  and  quickly  re-  turns  with  a  bottle  in  a  silver  bucket.  Champagne.  The  Ger-  mans  are  obviously  celebrating  something.  All  around  them,  the  Belgians  and  the  French  sit,  hot  and  silent,  and  sip  their  Swiss  table  wines.  I  hear  thunder.  And  now  a  gust  of  wind  bangs  the  big  door  shut.  Mario  opens  the  champagne.  We  watch;  it  is  expensive  French  champagne.  The  cork  lands  in  Mme.  Carnot's  plate.  She  is  hardly  amused.  Light-  ning  now,  and  a  big  crack  of  thunder  again.  Mario  pours  out  the  champagne.  They  drink.  I  am  having  difficulties  with  my  steak;  itis  hard  and  leathery-the  hell  has  been  cooked  out  of  it.  They  drink  some  more.  Vatti  laughs,  Mutti  smiles,  Karina  looks  en-  chanted.  Wiktor  looks  at  me,  to  see  if  I  see.  I  do  not.  There  is  a  stronger  gust  of  wind,  and  a  window  slams  shut.  The  Swiss  hotel  management  has  now  wakened  to  the  realization  that  a  storm  is  coming  up.  A  real  Swiss  commotion  breaks  out,  with  the  whole  hotel  staff  running  around  in  circles,  securing  windows  and  doors.  Vatti  looks  up  from  his  cham-  pagne.  Wiktor  looks  up  from  his.  The  boat.  It  is  moored  loosely  to  the  land-  ing  of  the  hotel  beach,  and  it  will  most  certainly  be  dragged  out  into  the  lake  if  the  wind  gets  any  stronger.  They  will  have  to  move  it  to  the  small  port  in  the  bay.  There  is  a  great  silence  among  the  guests  in  the  dining  room.  The  chil-  dren  have  been  fed  earlier;  everybody  is  having  steak  problems.  There  is  a  short  conference  among  the  Germans, and  the  men  get  up,  leaving  their  glasses  half  full.  The  waitresses  struggle  with  the  windows;  the  janitor  brings  the  deck  chairs  from  the  beach  into  the  hall.  It  is  blowing  like  all  hell  now,  and  the  canopies  on  the  windows  make  a  ter-  rible  noise.  There  is  more  lightning,  and  the  thunder  follows  at  shorter  and  short-  er  intervals.  Mutti  and  Karina  sip  their  champagne  and  chat  amiably.  Their  celebration  has  been  interrupted,  but  onecan  plainly  see  that  they  are  se-  cure  in  the  certainty  that  they  canhave  more  champagne  whenever  they  please.  Through  the  window  I  catch  a  glimpse  of  Vatti  and  Wiktor  running  toward  the  beach.  They  have  put  on  heavy  oil-  skins,  hats,  and  rubber  boots.  I  should  like  to  see  their  luggage.  How  they  man-  age  to  squeeze  all  that  junk  into  their  Mercedes,  I  should  like  to  know.  Well,  there  is  always  the  boat.  It  is  so  big  one  could  put  two  full-size  wardrobe  trunks  into  it.  They  probably  do  just  that.  I  wish  I  could  go  out  now.  I  love  a  storm.  But  it  would  look  as  if  I  were  following  them.  Everything  rattles,  lightning  opens  the  skies,  children  scream,a  dog  howls.  It's  fun.  Several  mothers  have  gone  upstairs  to  see  their  offspring  and  their  animals.  &quot;No,  no  dessert  for  me-  brandy  and  an  espresso,  please,  Mario.&quot;  Mentally,  I  add,  &quot;old  bean.&quot;  People  be-  gin  totalk  again,  having  slowly  recovered  from  the  impact  of  the  Germans'  French  champagne.  With  most  of  the  women  gone,  the  men  talk  from  table  to  table.  There  is  plenty  of  conversa-  tion  material.  The  weather,  of  course.  Will  it  getcooler  after  the  storm,  will  it  now  rain  tomorrow,  is  it  good  for  the  crops,  bad  for  the  vine-  yards?  The  waitresses  are  taking  the  tablecloths  off  and  are  emptying  the  ashtrays.  People  draw  up  their  chairs  and  form  groups.  [REDACTED]  friendships  are  springing  up;  solidarities  abound.  Only  the  two  German  ladies  sit  by  themselves  now.  And  I,  with  good  old  Galsworthy.  I  ask  for  another  coffee.  M.  Car-  not  suddenly  orders  a  whole  bottle  of  R\xc3\xa9my  Martin,  and  passes  it  around.  He  comes  to  me  with  it,  and  I  accept-  only  a  drop,  of  course.  But  he  pours  me  a  whole  glass.  He  is  in  a  generous  mood.  " b"The  storm  has  become  fantastic.  Branches  are  flying  around  and  bang-  ing  against  the  windows.  The  whole  building  rattles.  The  German  ladies  look  worried  at  last.  The  proprietor  has  come  in,  and  announces  no  tele-  vision  until  the  storm  abates,  please,  and  no  radio,  either.  It  is  a  fair  stretch  of  water  from  our  beach  to  the  small  port  in  the  bay.  Why  should  I  worry-  let  Mutti  worry.  Mutti  has  her  own  way  of  worrying.  She  has  pulled  out  a  piece  of  gray  canvas,  and  is  carefully  and  patiently  embroidering  a  flower  de-  sign  in  petit  point.  Very  pretty.  Probably  a  set  of  twelvearmchairs  for  her  salon,  like  those  I  saw  in  Voltaire's  house  in  Ferney,  made  by  his  miserable  niece  during  the  long  winter  evenings  when  the  old  man  and  his  companions  were  running  down  their  enemies.  I  must  be  getting  slightly  tipsy  on  M.  Carnot's  brandy.  I  had  my  own  before,  and  a  half  bottle  of  red  wine  with  my  steak,  and  two  Camparis  before  that.  My  hearing  is  sharper  than  usual  when  I  drink,  and  I  can  hear  that  bald  Belgian  telling  his  elderly  daughter  that  the  krauts  have  probably  drowned.  I  can't  hear  what  the  others  are  talking  about,  but  I  bet  they  are  all  on  the  same  sub-  ject.  Mutti  is  still  embroidering,  but  looking  more  and  more  often  at  the  dark  windows,  and  Karina  is  sitting  very  still,  occasionally  putting  a  grape  into  her  round  mouth.  The  storm  is  slowly  dying  down.  It  still  pours  with  rain,  but  the  thunder  and  lightning  have  gone.  The  men  should  be  here  by  now,  unless  they  were  unable  to  find  a  car  to  drive  them  back  from  the  port.  The  general  conversation  is  very  loud.  A  few  men  have  organized  a  card  game.  Everybody  is  relieved  that  it's  over.  M.  Carnot  turns  on  the  radio.  There  is  dance  music-a  samba.  Very  formally,  he  asks  Mme.  Carnot  to  dance.  She  gets  up  graciously,  and  they  are  dancing  now.  They  are  rather  big  people,  but  they  dance  surprisingly  well.  Two  more  couples  get  up  and  dance.  Tables  are  being  pushed  aside.  The  Bel-  gian  doctor  asks  me  to  dance  with  him,  and  his  wife  nods  at  me  so  encouraging-  ly  that  itis  impossible  for  me  to  refuse.  We  traipse  around  fora  full  two  min-  utes,  then  the  tune  changes  to  a  Twist  and  the  good  doctor  gives  up  reluctantly  and  takes  me  back  to  my  table.  Where  the  hell  are  Vatti  and  Wik-  tor-the  least  they  could  do  is  tele-  phone  if  they  can't  get  transportation.  Just  then  they  enter  the  dining  room.  For  God's  sake,  they  have  changed  their  clothes  again.  They  look  fresh  and  healthy  and  as  dry  as  bones.  Mutti  and  Karina  beam  at  them,  and  they  begin  to   talk.  Mario  shows  up,  all  smiles  and  ex-  pectancy,  and,  sure  enough,  they  order  more  French  champagne.  The  room  is  full  of  talk  and  laughter,  and  everybody  is  staring  now  unashamedly  and  envi-  ously.  Hostility  mounts  like  a  tide.  New  dance  music  comes  out  of  the  loud-  speaker.  The  champagne  cork  pops  once  more,  and  this  time  hits  the  ceiling.  The  word  &quot;Prost&quot;  can  be  heard  repeat-  ed  several  times,  and  a  number  of  cou-  ples  begin  to  dance  contemptuously.  Wiktor  quickly  drains  his  glass.  Vatti  asks  Mutti  to  rumba  with  him.  Wiktor  gets  up,  probably  to  ask  Karina.  No,  he  is  coming  toward  me.  He  stops.  Will  I  dance?  Yes,  I  will.  He  is  relieved;  he  bows,  he  murmurs  his  name-which  I  know  any  way  from  the  luggage  labels-  he  puts  his  arm  around  my  waist  loosely.  He  smells  of  Carven  for  Men.  We  min-  gle  with  the  other  couples.  Vatti  and  Mutti  smile  at  us;  everybody  else  stares.  Their  tongues  will  start  wagging  in  a  moment.  We  dance  very  nicely.  He  is  all  right-has  an  ear  for  rhythm  and  is  quick  on  his  feet.  I  can  do  anything  he  can,  and  more.  I  love  to  dance.  We  glide  and  turn,  he  lets  me  go,  he  lets  me  fly,  swirls  me  around.  There  is  a  pause;  the  speaker  interrupts  the  music  and  announces  a  tango-an  old-fash-  ioned,  Argentine  tango.  Wiktor  hesi-  tates  for  a  moment,  then  draws  me  clos-  er;  I  can  feel  the  muscles  of  his  broad  chest  against  mine.  We  make  two  long,  lovely  sliding  steps,  then  I  shake  my  arm-my  left  arm-and  I  let  my  brace-  let  slip  down  to  my  wrist.  The  two  inches  of  untanned  skin  stand  out  like  a  strange  scar,  and  on  that  white  band  of  skin  my  tattooed  number.  It  is  a  long  number,  five  figures  beginning  with  an  eight,  which  means  that  I  wasn't  taken  to  the  camp  until  1943-rather  late,  considering  that  two  years  later  every-  thing  was  over.  The  chic  numbers  are,  of  course,  the  short  ones,  because  they  are  so  scarce.  I  wonder  who  had  No.  1.  Dr.  May  wants  to  cut  my  number  out  and  graft  on  skin  from  my  thigh,  but  I  haven't  made  up  my  mind.  Maybe  now  I  will  let  him  do  it.  Wiktor  stares  at  my  arm,  trips  slight-  ly  over  my  right  foot,  excuses  himself,  and  executes  a  very  complicated  tango  step  skillfully.  We  dance  on  beautifully.  The  next  to  notice  is  Mme.  Carnot;  she  never  misses  a  thing.  She  nudges  M.  Carnot.  And  as  we  glide  slowly  around  the  dance  floor,  they  finally  all  see  it  in  turn-all  of  them  except  Vatti  and  Mutti,  who  dance  blissfully,  cheek  to  cheek,  eyes  closed,  deep  in  memories,  humming  the  familiar,  corny,  old-fash-  ioned,  prewar  tango. "