 b"WE'VE  not  carried  many  Americans.&quot;  The  first  officer  removed  his  pipe  from  his  mouth  to  make  this  statement.  Rosen-  dahl  noted  that  the  pipe  was  proof  against  the  salt  spray  that  had  extin-  guished  his  cigar  in  the  few  minutes  since  the  Scottish  mainland  had  faded  in  the  mist.  He  relit  the  cigar;  he  had  felt  a  comforting  sense  of  fellowship  to  be  smoking  with  the  first.  He  was  about  to  say  that  he  didn't  know  why  he  was  here  himself,  but  stopped,  because  of  course  he  knew  very  well.  He  was  here  because  his  secretary,  Miss  Goldman,  had  once  seen  a  British  film  about  the  Outer  Hebrides  and  had  never  forgot-  ten  that  tweed  was  woven  there.  Since  he  was  going  to  Europe  anyway,  Miss  Goldman  reasoned  that  there  could  be  no  more  appropriate  place  for  a  men's  garment  manufacturer  to  visit,  and  in-  cluded  these  islands  in  his  itinerary.  Now,  as  he  stood  in  the  bow  of  the  MV.  St.  Brendan  (641  gross  tons),  bound  from  Oban  to  Stornoway,  he  felt  grate-  ful  to  her.  The  preceding  spring,  Rosendahl's  wife  had  died  suddenly,  at  the  age  of  fifty-five.  About  a  month  after  the  funeral,  his  doctor  had  recommended  that  he  take  a  trip,  perhaps  to  Europe;  it  would  do  him  good.  He  could  not,  now,  remember  wondering  whether  it  would  do  him  good  or  not,  but  he  had  passively  as-  sented,  and  Miss  Gold-  man  had  taken  great  delight  in  planning  his  voyage  of  consolation.  She  had  kept  assuring  him  that  he  would  have  a  marvellous  time.  He  had  not  had  a  marvel-  lous  time.  For  two  months  he  had  trav-  elled,  unseeing,  from  one  great  European  hotel  to  another,  and  he  could  truthfully  say  that  he  had  not  hadany  time  at  all  until  he  came  to  [REDACTED],  the  last  country  he  was  to  visit  before  going  home.  Rosendahl  had  not  made  any  overtures  to  the  Scots;  they  had  unexpectedly  warmed  to  him.  Since  his  wife's  death,  he  had  be-  come  a  sombre  dresser,  he  did  not  talk  much,  and  he  drank  large  quantities  of  straight  Scotch  whiskey.  His  behavior  had  immediately  endeared  him  to  the  Scots  to  whom  he  had  introductions,  or  whom  he  met  in  the  plusher  bars  of  Edinburgh.  They  had  gently  but  per-     sistently  broken  down  his  reserve,  not  out  of  disrespect  for  it  but  because  they  mistook  it  for  his  normal  protective  coloration.  He  was  inadvertently  dis-  guised  as  the  Scottish  image  of  the  per-  fect  American  visitor.  One  night,  in  the  bar  of  the  Cale-  donian  Hotel,  Rosendahl  was  drawn  into  conversation  with  a  cloth  exporter  to  whom  he  had  not  had  an  introduc-  tion.  The  man's  name  was  John  Mac-  Leod.  He  warmly  approved  of  Rosen-  dahl's  impending  visit  to  the  Hebrides,  and  asked  him  to  call  at  his  office  the  next  morning.  When  Rosendahl  ar-  rived,  MacLeod  sat  him  in  a  wooden  chair,  put  a  glass  of  Glenlivet  in  his  hand,  and  gave  him  a  long  lecture  on  the  state  of  the  hand-woven-tweed  in-  dustry.  He  cautioned  Rosendahl  not  to  be  discouraged  if,  even  in  Harris,  he  could  not  find  any  wholly  handmade  cloth.  It  was  nearly  impossible;  most  of  the  tweed,  though  hand-woven,  was  machine-made  in  almost  every  other  respect.  Teaselling,  breaking,  carding,  spinning,  and  finishing  were  all  done  at  least  partially  by  machines.  After  two  glasses'  worth  of  unburdening,  Mac-  Leod  led  Rosendahl  into  a  small  sam-  ple  room  back  of  the  office,  and  un-  rolled  part  of  a  bolt  of  cloth  for  him  to  inspect.  Rosendahl  had  never  seen  such  tweed.  It  fell  across  his  arm  in  the  rich  folds  of  an  eighteenth-  century  silver-edged  vel-  vet,  and  its  muted  browns  and  gray  greens  shone  through  the  sur-  face  lustre  of  a  thick,  re-  silient  nap.  When  he  turned  to  MacLeod  to  share  the  first  pleasure  he  had  felt  in  months,  the  exporter  silently  handed  him  a  linen  tester.  Ros-  endahl  peered  through  the  glass,  moved  the  little  square  aperture  across  the  cloth  span-  ning  his  outspread  hand,  and  marvelled  at  the  balanced,  unmechanical  weave;  it  had  been  beat  up  by  the  hand  of  a  master.  &quot;Her  name  is  Mrs.  Dum-  fries,&quot;  MacLeod  said.  &quot;She  lives  in  South  Harris.  T'll  send  you  to  her.&quot;  OSENDAHL  was  impatient  to  meet  Mrs.  Dumfries.  Although  he  could  have  taken  a  boat  directly  to  Har-  ris,  he  had  chosen  instead  to  take  one  earlier  to  Stornoway,  and  then  to  ride  the  bus  south  to  Tarbert,  the  main  town  on  Harris.  After  getting  off  the  boat,  he  " b"boarded  an  ancient  bus;  the  thirty-five  miles  of  rocks  and  potholes  connecting  Stornoway  and  Tarbert  made  Rosen-  dahl  long  to  be  back  on  the  water.  The  Harris  Hotel,  in  Tarbert,  was  a  far  cry  from  the  Caledonian,  but  its  owner  was  solicitous  and  friendly.  Rosendahl  en-  joyed  his  supper  and,  despite  his  appre-  hensions,  spent  a  comfortable  night  in  a  brass-knobbed  bed.  The  next  morning,  after  breakfast,  he  asked  if  he  could  hire  acar  and  driver.  The  innkeeper  an-  swered  that  there  was  a  car,  but  that  his  son  Ian,  who  would  have  been  glad  to  drive  for  Rosendahl,  had  gone  across  to  Oban  two  days  before.  Would  the  gentleman  be  willing  to  drive  himself?  The  roads  were  rough,  but  one  could  hardly  get  lost  on  them  ;  the  Land-Rov-  er  was  dependable.  At  the  mention  of  a  Rover,  Rosen-  dahl  quickly  agreed.  He  had  been  shown  a  new  Rover  sedan  in  [REDACTED],  and  he  welcomed  the  chance  to  drive  one.  When  the  owner  brought  the  car  around,  it  took  Rosendahl  completely  aback.  This  Rover  was  a  battered,  jeep-  like  vehicle,  still  wearing  what  was  left  of  an  ancient  coat  of  navy-gray  paint.  The  seats  were  bare  metal,  and  a  thicket  of  levers  sprouted  from  the  floor.  The  owner  explained  that  it  was  verysim-  ple-this  short  one  engaged  the  transfer  case,  and  that  one  with  the  red  knob  selected  the  range,  and  the  big  one  was  just  an  ordinary  gearshift.  Rosendahl  accepted  the  good-natured  challenge,  climbed  into  the  right-hand  seat,  was  shown  how  to  start  the  engine  and  shift  gears,  and  sat  idling  while  a  map  of  Harris  was  explained  to  him.  He  mem-  orized  the  simple  directions,  carefully  shifted  into  first,  and  lurched  off,  with  the  hotelkeeper  roaring  encouragement  after  him.  It  had  been  twelve  years  since  Rosen-  dahl  had  driven  anything  but  an  auto-  matic  car;  only  by  concentrating  hard  was  he  able  to  steer  the  Rover,  which  turned  almost  twice  as  far  for  a  given  movement  of  the  wheel  as  his  Cadillac.  He  began  to  feel  rather  proud  of  him-  self  for  being  able  to  drive  the  car,  es-  pecially  on  roads  so  rough  that  he  could  barely  make  ten  miles  an  hour.  In  Edinburgh,  Rosendahl  had  pictured  Harris  as  flat  and  peaty;  he  was  sur-  prised  by  its  rocky,  almost  mountainous  terrain.  After  an  hour,  he  was  sure  that  he  must  begetting  near  to  Mrs.  Dumfries'  croft.  A  moment  later,  the  Rover  topped  a  low  saddle,  and  Rosen-  dahl  saw  an  isolated  cottage  in  a  shallow  valley  below  him.  As  he  started  coasting  down  the  hill,  feeling  confident  and  relaxed,  it  be-  gan  to  rain.  He  looked  for  the  fa-  " b"miliar  chrome  wiper  knob,  couldn't  find  one,  and  then  realized  that  the  odd-  shaped  boxes  on  the  inside  of  the  wind-  shield  were  the  wiper  motors  and  that  the  heavy  toggle  near  them  must  turn  them  on.  In  the  moment  it  took  him  to  identify  the  switch  and  throw  it,  Rosen-  dah]  let  the  Rover  wander  off  the  nar-  row  path.  He  corrected  desperately  as  the  car  bounced  into  a  ditch  to  the  right,  bounced  out  again  in  response  to  his  frantic  hand  and  foot,  skidded  cross-  wise  down  the  wet  slope,  and  brought  up  hard  against  a  large  rock  wedged  in  the  left-hand  ditch.  The  right  front  tire  ruptured  with  a  sharp  crack,  and  the  car  shuddered  and  settled  to  that  side.  Rosendahl's  heart  was  pounding  violently,  and  the  steering  wheel  was  wet  when  he  let  go  of  it.  Seeing  that  he  was  not  far  from  the  cottage,  heran  the  distance  in  the  pouring  rain.  He  had  not  had  such  strenuous  exercise  in  years,  and  he  reached  the  door  panting  and  dishevelled.  Mrs.  Dumfries  answered  his  knock;  she  was  small,  bent,  and  plainly  suspi-  cious  of  Rosendahl.  He  explained  that  MacLeod  had  suggested  he  come.  She  appraised  him  narrowly,  led  him  inside,  and  told  him  to  sit  down  while  she  made  some  tea.  She  took  the  kettle  outside  to  fill  it.  Rosendahl  was  still  trembling  and  perspiring  in  his  clothes.  He  took  off  his  wet  coat,  unbuttoned  his  jacket,  and  walked  unsteadily  to  the  open  door.  The  cool  air  helped  him.  He  mopped  his  forehead  dry,  tucked  in  his  shirt,  and,  still  recovering,  turned  to  look  at  the  room  behind  him.  Its  image  struck  him  full  face:  the  smoked  thatch,  the  rough  beams,  the  open  hearth  filled  with  smol-  dering  blocks  of  peat,  and,  dominating  everythlmr  the  massive  wooden  frame\xe2\x80\x94  work  of  the  loom.  He  stood  in  the  warm,  dark  weaver's  kitchen,  walled  with  warp  beams  and  felted  thick  and  soft  underfoot  with  the  woof  ends  of  a  hundred  years,  and  knew  that  this  was  one  of  the  places  he  was  meant  to  pass  through  in  his  life  and  that  he  had  found  it.  He  let  the  flood  of  recogni-  tion  overwhelm  him.  Mrs.  Dumfries,  kettle  in  hand,  stood  on  the  threshold  dumfounded  at  her  visitor,  who  leaned  against  the  loom  and  wept  uncontrol-  lably  for  his  discovery,  his  love,  his  life."