 b"I  AM  in  the  State  of  Tabasco,  in  a  I  town  I  have  never  been  in  before,  a  town  that  I  had  scarcely  even  heard  of  a  few  days  ago,  a  town  that  I  had  not  intended  to  visit.  It  is  hot  and  sultry.  It  has  rained  once  this  morning,  but  the  air  did  not  clear.  I  am  alone  in  a  jungle,  and  though  I  have  slept  now  a  dead,  spectred  sleep  for  sixteen  hours,  I  am  still  slow  and  numbed  in  my  mind  and  body.  A  pall  of  silent  separation  hangs  over  this  city,  which  is  called  Villa-  hermosa,  and  over  this  jungle,  which  is  really  a  neglected  park-an  over-  grown,  deserted  museum  by  the  sullen  Lagoon  of  Illusions.  The  untended  paths  reveal  at  everyturn  a  colossal  head  of  igneous  stone  or  a  monolith  engraved  with  Olmec  figures  worn  almost  to  death  by  wind  and  rain.  The  bones  and  cities  of  the  savages  that  carved  them  may  still  lie  buried  under  the  plantations  of  cacao  and  papaya  or  in  the  pathless  jungles  along  this  torpid  coast.  They  wor-  shipped  a  jaguar  god,  and  at  the  last  turn  of  the  path  I  saw,  set  in  the  smoldering  sunlight  and  lizard-infested  leaves,  a  stone  idol,  forthright  and  crude,  with  the  body  ofa  man  and  a  head  of  the  beast.  The  man  part  was  kneeling.  Wide  nostrils  and  teeth  had  been  carved  on  a  flat  cat's  face  that  looked  up,  seeking  in  the  indifferent  sky  the  sun  ball  that  was  its  god.  I  was  touched-seized,  in  fact,  by  a  deep  ter-  ror  and  reverence  that  still  possess  me,  though  I  have  come  this  much  farther  along  the  path.  And  I  try  to  reason  why  such  a  primitive  image  should  shake  me  so,  brought  up  as  I  was  in  the  arms  and  love  of  baby  Jesus.  Ahead  of  me  now,  in  the  middle  of  the  path,  standing  still,  watching  me,  is  a  vulture.  It  is  enormous.  Its  head,  un-  like  the  buzzards  of  my  childhood,  is  not  pink  and  naked;  it  is  as  black  as  the  rest  of  its  body  and  raptorial  feet.  The  path  is  narrow,  but  the  bird  does  not  hop  away  or  take  flight  at  my  approach.  It  stands  there  looking  at  me,  waiting  for  me.  I  have  never  before  walked  by  a  standing  vulture,  and  I  picture  a  piece  of  a  thigh  or  an  eye  ripped  out  by  its  bird's  obsidian  beak.  I  remember  the  ra-  vens  that  killed  the  liv-  ing  lambs  back  in  the  country  I  came  from,  and  I  say  to  myself  that  vultures  only  eat  the  dead  to  clean  the  earth  for  the  living.  Never-  theless,  when  the  crea-  ture  shows  no  sign  that  it  will  move  for  me,  I  stop.  I  wait.  I  wonder  if  it  will  sense  or  smell  the  life  I  still  pos-  sess.  I  cannot  take  another  step  unless  I  know.  WO  days  ago,  I  was  in  Veracruz.  I  had  gone  there  with  friends.  None  of  us  had  known  that  carnival  would  be  in  progress.  We  arrived  on  Wednesday.  The  high  weekend,  the  climax  of  fiesta,  was  yet  to  come,  so  the  hotel  rooms  we  found  were  free  only  until  Saturday.  We  would  have  to  de-  part  then,  in  deference  to  people  with  weekend  reservations.  My  friends  were  three  couples:  a  plain  American  pair,  a  doctor  and  his  wife,  from  a  Western  ranch;  a  Frenchman  with  a  British  wife;  a  German  with  a  Mexican  wife.  Yet  they  were  Americans  all,  and  I  was  perhaps  the  most  American  of  the  lot,  be-  cause  I  am  neither  here  nor  there,  East-  ern  nor  Western,  mountain  nor  plain.  I'm  one  thing  now  and  another  then,  and  all  things  together  at  the  same  time.  I  am  most  recently  from  [REDACTED],  where,  along  the  green  coast,  the  ravens  kill  the  spring  lambs  to  eat  their  eyes,  and  the  fog  comes  in  summer-a  far  cry  from  this  black-eyed  Catholic  seaboard,  rank  asHell.  Our  hotel  was  old,  tiled-un-Ameri-  can,  though  the  girl  at  the  desk  spoke  English-and  it  faced  the  Parque  de  la  Parroquia  de  Nuestra  Sefiora  de  la  Asuncion,  around  which  were  arcaded  caf\xc3\xa9s  selling,  in  the  open  air,  drinks,  shrimps,  and  oysters  with  the  taste  of  the  sea  floor  on  their  shells.  A  north  wind,  common  at  that  season,  swept  coolly  from  the  Mexican  [REDACTED],  across  the  harbor  and  down  the  street,  bring-  ing  the  reek  of  the  shallow  sea  and  the  bunker  smell  of  ship  steel.  Palmettos  rattled  in  the  square,  and  fountain  wa-  ter  like  ocean  spray  wet  the  tiles  of  the  plaza.  A  far  cry,  again,  from  the  hot,  breathless,  oppressive  center  where  I  now  stand  staring  at  my  vulture.  24y  vulture.  Ah!  Already  I  have  taken  pos-  session  of  his  ugly  soul.  MERICANS  drink  in  [REDACTED]  because  the  country  is  strange  and  the  booze  is  cheap.  Most  of  them  drink     tequila  and  mescal,  rum  and  gin.  'The  rich  ones,  who,  in  their  automobiles,  pass  by  the  countryside  as  if  it  were  a  diorama  in  a  malevolent  museum,  drink  Scotch-and-bottled-water  at  exorbitant  prices,  but  all  of  them  drink.  My  friends  and  I  began  drinking  the  minute  we  had  checked  in  at  Veracruz.  We  drank  gin,  and  scooped  down  oysters  for  lunch,  then  we  shopped  and  rested,  then  we  met  in  the  Franco-Anglo  couple's  room  for  drinks  before  dinner,  which  came  on  about  ten.  We  drank  during  and  after  dinner,  for  the  night  was  just  beginning.  The  town  had  been  filling  by  the  hour.  New  girls  had  appeared  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9s  during  the  afternoon.  The  musi-  cians-the  marimba  players,  the  maria-  chis,  the  country  fiddlers  and  singers  of  &quot;La  Negra&quot;  and  &quot;Llorona&quot;-seemed  to  spawn  each  other.  The  bartenders  and  waiters  were  in  high  spirits,  the  drinks  were  cheap,  the  wind  had  stopped,  and  the  sky  was  full  of  stars.  That  was  Wednesday.  Thursday  I  was  hung  over,  but  sometimes  a  hangover  is  a  transcendent  experience,  sharpening  sensation  and  inciting  lust.  Of  our  party,  I  was  the  lone  man,  the  spare  wheel,  the  one  of  our  number  free  to  do  as  he  chose,  and  Thursday  evening  I  took  off  alone,  leaving  the  others  at  their  long  dinner.  A  few  drinks  put  on  a  precious  edge  of  keen  perception,  of  singleness  and  control,  and  the  wind  came  back  gently  from  the  sea.  I  took  the  promenade  along  the  water  and  circled  back  to  the  central  square,  passing  from  one  caf\xc3\xa9  to  another.  At  the  same  caf\xc3\xa9s  as  the  night  before,  the  drinks  were  slightly  higher,  the  pace  faster,  the  crowd  thicker,  the  music  more  engulfing  and  competitive.  I  sat  with  a  girl  with  white  skin,  black  hair,  and  blue  eyes-a  frag-  ment  of  Seville  in  Indian  country.  We  drank,  surroundedby  mariachis,  by  &quot;Guadalajara&quot;  and  &quot;Rancho  Grande,&quot;  unable  to  talk,  able  only  to  smile  and  nod  and  drink.  I  thought  of  the  broad  tiled  stairway  to  my  hotel  room,  safely  bypassing  the  lobby,  and  I  thought  of  my  room-small  and  quiet  in  the  back  of  the  building,  safe  from  noise  and  interruption-and  in  my  mind  I  took  that  black-and-  white  girl  to  the  bed,  but  then  our  party  of  two  in-  creased  to  four,  and  an  old  man  with  a  painted  face,  dressed  like  a  prima  ballerina  and  smoking  a  cigar,  began  to  dance  on  our  table.  The  drinks  changed  from  gin  to  te-  quila,  tequila  to  mescal,  " b" mescal  to  rum.  The  sky  was  light  and  clear.  The  fountain  of  the  plaza  shot  up  to  the  infinite  stars,  barely  shaken  by  the  breeze,  and  I  sat  with  a  brown  girl  in  another  caf\xc3\xa9.  She  had  brown  eyes  and  sand-colored  hair  and  a  look  of  the  Capital  about  her  easy  presence  in  the  provinces.  Her  cheekbones  were  Indian  and  her  wristbones  were  flat  and  Christian.  Walled  by  mariachis,  we  drank  and  smiled,  and  I  saw  in  the  eye  of  my  mind  the  ascending  stairs  to  my  room  and  the  long,  still  hall  leading  to  the  tranquil  pasture  of  a  bed  with  tall  trees  and  damp  bowers  of  sex.  Then  the  ancient  man,  rouged  lips  clamping  his  cigar,  tutu  spinning,  spun  to  our  table  in  his  long  white  under-  wear  and  huaraches  and  began  to  dance.  Drinks  came,  and  pesos  from  my  pocket  fell  like  leaves  at  the  old  man's  feet.  The  table  was  suddenly  enlarged,  and  the  brown  girl  with  the  gaze  of  the  Federal  District  was  " b"transformed  into  the  gat-toothed  soap-  white  smile  of  the  Lancashire  wife,  and  I  was  trapped  good-heartedly  by  my  party  of  friends,  full  of  Scotch  and  controversy.  The  marimbas  succumbed  to  Medicare  and  filariasis-a  tropical  disease  in  which  a  worm  gets  under  the  skin.  That  was  Thursday.  Friday  we  were  all  hung  over.  The  car  belonged  to  the  German-Mexican  combination,  and  we  drove  out  past  Mocambo  to  Boca  del  Rio  to  eat  more  oysters  and  a  Huachinango  lunch.  Long  before  the  fish  arrived,  we  were  half  crocked  again  on  Orizaban  beer.  Of  the  group,  the  German  derivative,  whose  name  was  Gregory,  was  my  par-  ticular  friend,  and  after  lunch  he  and  I  had  reached  that  crucial  point  where  one  more  drink  meant  no  more  beer  but  hard  liquor  and  irrevocable  con-  tinuance  to  the  bitter  end-wherever,  whatever,  and  whenever  that  might  be-but  xo  more  drinks  meant  a  crush,  ing  abandonment  on  the  edge  of  promise,  quitting  the  slope  before  the  summit  and  the  view  are  reached.  I  think  theothers  felt  the  same,  but  they  were  spared  the  agony  of  decision  by  the  treacherous  country  itself,  which  at-  tacked  them  swiftly  with  Montezuma's  famous  revenge-an  affliction  of  the  mind  manifested  in  the  bowels-and  they,  once  we  were  back  in  Veracruz,  went  straight  up  to  bed.  Gregory  and  I,  having  made  our  fateful  decision,  remained  below  in  the  Colonial  Caf\xc3\xa9  with  our  gin-and-sodas.  Before  long,  however,  a  boy  from  the  hotel  approached  with  the  news  that  Gregory's  wife,  Mexican  though  she  was,  was  lonely  in  her  country,  and  Gregory  went  up  to  see  what  he  could  do.  Again  I  was  alone,  and  I  promised  myself  that,  after  two  nights'  drinking  until  four  in  the  morning,  I,  too,  would  lie  down  until  dark.  But  the  afternoon  eased  on,  the  caf\xc3\xa9s  were  fairly  quiet  at  that  siesta  time  ofday,  the  gins  tasted  good,  and  I  became  deeplyinvolved  in  the  work  of  a  painter  high  on  the  fa-  cade  of  the  old  colonial  Palacio  Mu-  nicipal  abutting  on  the  park  across  the  street.  As  he  carefully-yet  swiftly,  for  the  weekend  was  nearly  upon  him-laid  over  the  faded  stucco  a  thick  flowing  paint  of  the  sweetest  blue,  I  experienced  an  intense  excitement.  One  smooth  stroke  after  another,  each  one  mas-  terly  and  complete-no  scrubbing,  no  working  back-vigorously  devoured  with  sensual  hunger  the  building's  aged  Spanish  face.  My  excitement,  of  course,  was  sexual,  and  I  felt  a  groaning  in  my  loins  that  came  and  went  throughout  the  afternoon  as  the  breeze  rose  and  died  and  rose  again;  and  when,  just  be-  fore  evening,  a  spare  young  man  with  a  long  face  and  clean  clothes  sat  quietly  down  beside  me  and  asked  sensibly,  as  if  I  had  known  him  all  my  life,  if  I  want-  ed  to  meet  a  girl,  I,  of  course,  said  yes. &quot;This  is  not  the  place,&quot;  he  said,  indicating  with  a  toss  of  his  head  the  string  of  caf\xc3\xa9s  and  the  flowering  square.  &quot;I  have  a  car.&quot;  At  that  moment,  my  par-  ty,  led  by  the  starched-  bloused  English  wife,  filed  toward  me  from  the  lobby  of  the  hotel.  I  told  the  fellow  to  meet  me  again  in  the  eve-  ning.  He  nodded  and  de-  parted,  and  the  Americans,  a  little  shaky  but  more  rested  than  I,  took  his  place.  Now  it  was  the  eve  of  the  weekend;  it  was  cool,  and  the  watchers  were  out.  We  were  watchers  at  our  sidewalk  table-old-hand  watchers  now  -watching  the  watchers  just  arrived.  Some  were  our  country-  men,some  were  not.  On  the  square  laya  palpable  overcast  of  searching  and  desire,  of  sharp  eyes  wait-  ing,  sizing  up.  Along  the  tiled  mosaie  walk,  which  was  slick  with  beer  and  spit  and  boiled  shrimp  shells,  passed  fastidious  exotics  from  the  [REDACTED],  ever  restless,  seldom  pausing,  passing  forth  and  back,  wearing  striped  skinny  summer  suits,  cropped  hair,  and  that  pathetic  look  of  aching  depravity  unfulfilled.  They  watched  the  limber  Indian  boys  and  skillfully  avoided  each  other's  eyes  for  fear  of  recognition  or  entrapment  in  familiar  company  instead  of  the  strange  company  they  had  come  so  far  to  seek,  Toltec  faces,  Mayan  faces  from  the  temple  walls  of  Uxmal  passed  and  stood  and  watched  the  impure  swarm  of  other  faces  bred  of  jungle  blood  mixed  with  mountain,  heat  with  cold,  conqueror  with  victim.  'The  black  blood  of  the  Olmecs  ran  through  the  flowing  crowd  of  blended  brown  like  a  hidden  current  in  a  stream,  and  now  and  then  the  head  and  shoulders  ofa  blond-haired  sailor,  fresh  from  one  of  the  Teutonic  ships  in  harbor,  rode  the  ruddy  surface  like  a  seagull.  On  his  face  was  always  a  bewildered  but  hungry  look,  and  over  his  shoulder  lay  the  strap  of  a  Hasselblad  or  Leica  that  he  could  not  possibly  hope  still  to  possess  when  he  went  back  to  the  ship  in  the  morning.  Prices  were  rising,  and  the  waiters,  overworked,  snatched  up  their  tips  while  the  snatching  was  good.  Still,  the  atmosphere  was  cheerful  and  light-  hearted,  and  everybody  talked  to  every-  body  else;  after  a  few  tequilas,  almost  any  Mexican  can  speak  the  language  of  " b"the  gringo  and  almost  any  gringo  can  respond  in  some  kind  of  Spanish.  At  our  table,  we  drank  until  dinner,  then  during  dinner,  then  after  dinner.  I,  having  had  no  rest  and  working  now  on  the  third  straight  night  of  stony  death  (and  this  night  to  the  bitter  end),  was  already  drunk  enough  to  ignore  the  murmurings  of  a  dangerous  fatigue  at  the  baseof  my  skull  and  the  inner  nerve  ends  of  my  system.  I  ignored  those  warnings  all  through  the  night.  I  ditched  my  party  and  went  with  my  lifelong  friend  to  the  girl  he  had  men-  tioned.  I  made  love  to  her  in  a  small  house  at  the  edge  of  town  in  a  room  with  two  beds  and  a  washbasin.  Her  name  was  Rosalinda,  and  she  was  a  pleasant  girl,  with  a  perfectly  round  pastoral  face,  and  we  talked  a  little  in  a  bizarre  commixture  of  the  languages  of  our  separate  births,  but  my  eyes  re-  peatedly  opened  and  closed  against  my  will,  though  I  did  not  really  sleep.  I  remember  staring  through  the  window  at  the  edge  of  dawn,  and  I  remember  in  that  gray,  pink  light  another  girl  coming  in  to  chat  with  Rosalinda.  And  the  next  I  remember  was  Rosalinda  alone,  smoking  a  cigarette,  watching  me  in  the  growing  light  of  morning.  &quot;Go  to  sleep,&quot;  she  said.  But  I,  in-  stead,  rose  and  dressed,  handed  her  a  preposterous  stack  of  pesos,  and  left,  reviving  a  little  in  the  cool  air  full  of  the  crowing  of  cocks  and  the  barking  of  dogs.  Poor  me!  Llorona,  Llorona  of  yesterday  and  today,  Yesterday  I  was  a  wonder,  Llorona,  Today  I  am  scarcely  a  shadow.  I  am  rested  now,  and  far  from  lust.  Now  my  problem  is  not  fatigue,  my  problem  is  my  life  itself.  My  problem  is  my  buzzard  straight  ahead.  I  pick  up  a  stick  and  I  throw  it.  It  bounces  off  the  black  back  in  a  puff  of  dust,  but  the  hateful  scavenger  does  not  move.  MUST  have  lain  longer  than  I  thought  in  Rosalinda's  bed,  like  a  marble  effigy  on  a  tomb,  for  when  I  reached  the  city  hall  the  clock  was  striking  eight  in  its  freshly  painted  tower  and  I  saw  that  Gregory  had  already  brought  his  car  up  to  the  curb  of  the  hotel.  He  himself  was  laying  bags  in  the  trunk.  He  was  alone  just  then.  'The  others  had  not  yet  come  down.  When  I  approached  him,  he  gave  me  a  bleary  wink  that  meant  he  sympathized  with  my  defection;  then  he  asked  me  if  I  was  coming  with  them.  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;I'll  catch  up  with  you  later,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;All  I  want  to  do  is  sleep.&quot;  He  laughed.  &quot;Not  in  this  hotel.  To-  day's  the  day.&quot;  'Then  I  remembered  that  my  time  was  up,  but  I  could  not  face  packing  or  looking  for  another  place,  and  I  wanted  to  see  the  ceremony  through  Sunday  if  possible.  &quot;Well,  if  I'm  not  in,  they  can't  very  well  throw  me  out,&quot;  I  said.  Avoiding  the  lobby,  I  scooted  up  the  stairs  and  down  the  hall  to  my  room.  I  took  a  quick,  cold  shower  and  brushed  my  teeth  and  put  on  my  swim-  ming  trunks  under  my  pants.  'The  shower  revived  me,  and  when  I  re-  turned  to  the  street  the  full  party  had  gathered.  I  asked  Gregory  to  drop  me  at  Mocambo  beach,  We  said  goodbye  there,  arranging  to  reunite  the  next  week  in  the  Capital.  They  drove  off  toward  Jalapa,  and  for  the  first  time  I  was  alone,  really  alone,  in  this  country.  I  have  been  alone  ever  since-a  tem-  poral  span  that  seems  without  dimen-  sion,  and  if  the  rest  of  this  storylacks  boundaries  and  bench  marks  of  time,  it's  the  fault  of  my  tricky  memory  that  ceased  recording,  that  Saturday  morn-  ing,  any  divisions  other  than  dark  and  light,  heat  and  cold,  wind  and  silence.  The  day  on  the  beach  went  by  like  a  season.  The  [REDACTED]  rolled  in  choppy  waves,  though  the  wind  had  died.  The  sun,  diffused  by  a  high,  thin  scrim  of  cloud,  tracked  its  way  unseen  across  the  sky,  scorching  the  bodies  exposed  upon  the  beach.  I  tried  to  sleep  on  the  sand,  but  a  terrible  restlessness  coursed  like  poison  through  my  arms  and  legs.  I  made  forays  into  the  warm,  brown  sea,  attempting  to  force  my  fatigue  into  a   deeper  place-if  not  to  assuage  it,  at  least  to  sequester  it  and  keep  it  still.  I  walked  up  the  long  sand,  trying  to  shake  down  my  nerves.  I  ran  a  little.  I  dragged  sticks  and  threw  rocks.  I  watched  a  group  of  lean  fishermen  pull  in  a  mam-  moth  net  full  of  redfish  and  squid.  Ex-  cept  for  the  fishermen,  it  was  a  beach  of  fat  people-fat  Mexicans  and  fat  Americans.  Even  the  young  were  fat;  the  babies  were  fat,  and  the  college  Americans  who  sunned  in  tight  groups  and  moved  along  the  beach  like  a  school  of  fish,  all  turning  in  the  same  direction  at  the  same  time  lest  they  become  separated  or  dispersed-even  they  had  soft  cheeks  on  crew-cut  baby  faces  and  round  smooth  bellies  hanging  like  loaves  over  the  waistbands  of  their  Bermuda  shorts.  Once  I  did  sleep  fitfully,  crazily  on  the  sand.  How  long?  Again,  I  couldn't  tell.  I  awoke  to  the  same  remote  sun  that  seemed  from  its  far,  fierce  place  to  hum  or  intonea  litany.  'The  sea  was  the  same,  breaking  the  same.  The  dark  figures  on  the  sand  were  the  same.  The  swimmers'  cries  of  anguished  delight  from  the  tepid  surf  the  same.  The  horses  galloping  dully  with  muted  hooves  along  the  sand-they  and  their  riders  were  the  same.  And  there  was  the  same  distant  music  that  may  have  travelled  like  a  scent  all  the  miles  from  the  riotous  town  or  may  have  come  from  the  transistor  sets  of  the  college  Americans:  They  say  I  do  not  mourn,  Llorona,  Because  they  do  not  see  me  cry,  But  there  is  a  death  that  makes  no  sound,  Llorona,  And  its  pain  is  even  greater.  My  Northern  skin  had  stiffened  on  my  flesh,  and  I  raged  with  a  tropical  thirst.  I  thirst  now  for  knowledge  of  my  life.  I  thirst  to  know  if  I  am  alive.  My  vulture  will  tell  me,  if  I  can  sum-  mon  the  courage  to  approach  its  perfect     " b"and  final  judgment.  If  I'm  alive,  it  will  fly  away.  If  I  am  dead,  it  will  eat  me  as  the  soul  devours  the  body  in  the  grave.  HE  sky  turned  black  before  my  eyes,  and  I  knew  I  must  go  back  to  town  and  sleep.  Then  .  ..  I  was  there,  in  town.  Though  it  was  after-  noon,  the  caf\xc3\xa9s  were  crowded  and  the  crowd  was  getting  drunk  again.  At  the  hotel,  I  asked  a  girl  at  the  desk  for  my  key,  and  I  had  no  sooner  spokenthan  I  saw,  jammed  between  the  back  wall  of  the  office  and  the  office  safe,  everything  I  owned  in  [REDACTED].  I  had  been  picked  up,  folded,  packed,  and  thrown  out.  The  girl  stared  with  growing  con-  cern  at  the  expression  on  my  face,  fear-  ing  a  scene,  perhaps.  Then  theold  proprietor  stepped  forth  and  rescued  her.  &quot;We  told  you,  young  sir,  that  you  must  leave  by  Saturday.  The  rooms  have  been  reservedo  for  much  time,  since  the  moviembre  or  more,  oh  yes,  since  much,  much  time-and  must  have  the  rooms.  All  your  things  are  made  and  you  are  free  to  leave  them  if  you  so  wishing  for  looking  to  another  room.  I'm  sorry,  I'm  sorry.&quot;  And  he  was,  I  could  tell.  He  could  see  how  tired  I  was,  and  he  had  been  following  my  progress  through  the  days  and  nights  and  the  thousand  drinks  and  the  little  drops  of  sleep  and  the  body  hunger-he  had  seen  it  all,  for  he  was  always  there,  awake  and  watching,  needing  sleep  no  longer,  no  more  than  the  ancient,  ancient  man  who  spun  and  sprang  from  tabletop  to  tabletop  in  his  ballerina  guise,  wailing  from  his  painted  lips,  jabbing  his  cigar  at  the  starry  sky,  shaking  the  chili  peppers  hanging  from  the  wrinkled  lobes  of  his  ears.  Those  men  were  too  old  to  sleep,  but  not  I,  not  I.  I  left  the  lobby  in  a  daze,  determined  to  find  a  room  and  rest.  I  struck  out  along  the  General  Manuel  Avila  Ca-  macho,  the  avenue  along  the  [REDACTED],  stopping  at  every  hotel  on  the  way.  My  rough  question-&quot;Hayun  cuarto  ...  para  una  persona'&quot;-received  the  same  answer  in  one  form  or  another  from  every  manager's  boy.Short,  curt  refusals.  Cursory  shakes  of  the  head.  Each  time,  I  stood  staring,  expecting  some  further  remark,  or  at  least  an  ex-  pression  of  sympathy,  but  there  was  no  sympathy  and  nothing  to  discuss.  There  were  no  rooms  in  Veracruz.  The  pro-  prictors,  gorged  and  satiated  on  the  writhing  flesh  of  the  carnival  city,  were  tired  of  the  rush  and  happy  to  be  full,  to  be  able  to  say  no-simply,  flatly,  finally,  no.  I  worked  back  through  the  streets  away  from  the  [REDACTED],  around  the  market, back  to  the  festooned  Cinco  de  Mayo,  scene  of  processions  and  saints  and  the  death  of  the  Spirit  of  Ill-Humor,  feeling  now  outcast  and  apart.  Returning  to  the  hotel  that  had  ejected  me,  I  stood  dumbly  in  the  cool  colonial  lobby,  sway-  ing  with  fatigue,  staring  at  the  pat-  terned  tiles,  the  shuddering  palmettos,  the  expression  of  suspicion  and  curious  apprehension  on  theface  of  the  girl  be-  hind  the  polished,  panelled  desk.  The  old  man  who  did  not  sleep  sat  in  one  of  the  wicker  chairs  and  watched  me  with  a  smile  of  helpless  compassion.  My  goods  remained  by  the  ancient  safe,  comfortable  and  secure  in  their  resting  place,  while  I,  separate  even  from  my  bag,  shoes,  and  laundry,  did  not  even  have  a  place  to  sit.  I  could  not  stand-  I  knew  I  could  not  simply  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  lobby,  staring  gaunt  and  hollow-eyed  like  some  boiledghost.  I  pivoted-perhaps  swivelled-Ilurched  toward  the  street,  and  absconded  into  the  crowd.  As  I  said,  time  had  become  a  primitive  thing,  and  I  felt  the  evening  through  my  ears  in  the  blast  of  maria-  chis,  and  through  my  nostrils  in  the  sweat  and  perfume  and  piscine  smell  of  the  mob,  and  on  my  tightening  skin,  which,  judging  from  the  shiver  and  burn  the  cool  late  breeze  brought  to  my  fatigued  spirit,  had  been  seared  scarlet  by  that  devious  sun.  I  made  my  " b"way  through  the  insane  throng  to  a  momentarily  abandoned  crevice  at  the  long  marble  bar  of  the  Colonial  Caf\xc3\xa9.  I  wedged  myself  in  and  leaned  against  the  cold,  gray  stone  as  a  child  in  terror  and  distress  leans  to  its  mother.  By  then,  the  bartender  knew  me,  and  he  set  my  gin-and-soda  before  me  without  a  word.  Darkness  apparently  came.  The  gin  twisted  the  back  of  my  brain  and  twitched  the  cords  at  the  base  of  my  skull,  and  I  remember  trying  to  calcu-  late  how  many  more  it  would  take  for  the  spasms  to  leave  off  and  the  gin  to  take  up  the  work  of  easing  my  pain  and  pathological  fatigue.  The  night  grew  deeper,  and  prices,  even  from  my  smil-  ing  friend  the  bartender,  rose  with  the  moon.  I  looked  out  toward  the  lighted  plaza  through  an  intricately  changing  frieze  of  human  creatures  passing,  pass-  ing,  pausing  to  leap  to  a  table  and  dance,  passing  on;  but  I  stayed  apart,  fearful  of  leaving  the  sloppy  bar,  my  marble  mother-for,  somewhere  in  my  twisted  skull,  some  cell  still  responded  at  least  to  fear  and  primitive  reasoning  and  told  me  that  if  I  once  stepped  away  from  my  place  and  thrust  myself  onto  the  churning  sea,  I  would  never  find  another  place  to  sit,  lie,  or  even  lean  my  weary  flesh.  Chills  and  fever!  Poor  me,  Llorona!  Llorona,  take  me  to  the  river.  Cover  me  with  your  shawl,  Llorona,  For  I  am  dying  of  cold.  My  skin  crept  over  my  flesh  and  my  flesh  over  my  bones  like  waves  over  water.  My  teeth  chattered,  my  eyes  burned,  my  swollen,  desiccated  lips  moved  in  conversation  with  some  big  man  from  Chihuahua,  while  a  manic  peristalsis  sent  Blackbear  gin  into  my  gut  and  thence  into  my  bloodstream.  The  Oso  Negro,  the  strong  black  bear.  The  big  man  from  Chihuahua  became  a  little  bug-eyed  fellow  with  thick  glasses  and  a  wig  of  crazy  hair  who  tugged  at  my  shirt  and  spoke  at  me  in  what  I  know  he  believed  to  be  my  own  language.  The  word  &quot;woman&quot;  came  out.  &quot;I  can't  leave  the  bar,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  the  only  place  I  have.&quot;  He  tugged  at  my  shirt  and  glared  through  his  spectacles  and  asked  me  what  sounded  like  &quot;You  like  woman?&quot;  I  closed  my  eyes  and  nodded  and  nodded.  &quot;But  I  can't  leave  the  bar,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  the  only  place  I  have.  It's  the  only  place  they'll  let  me  have,  I  can't  leave.&quot;  &quot;You  like  woman?&quot;  Again  I  nodded.  I  was  impatient  with  him.  I  thought  I  had  made  it  clear  I'd  like  a  woman  but  I  couldn't  leave  the  bar.  &quot;Me,&quot;  he  said,  tugging  and  tugging.  &quot;I  am  like  woman.&quot;  &quot;I  cannot  leave  this  bar.  I  have  no  place  to  go.  I  have  no  place  to  rest.  I  am  the  shell  of  a  boiled  shrimp.  Some-  one  has  peeled  me  and  eaten  my  flesh.  I  simply  cannot  leave  this  bar.&quot;  &quot;Come,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  am  like  woman.&quot;  The  more  he  tugged,  the  more  I  clung  to  my  glass  and  my  place  at  the  marble  slab.  &quot;Come  me,&quot;  he  said,  impatient  him-  self.  &quot;Come  me,  I  am  like  woman.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  God,&quot;  I  thought  when  his  message  finally  reached  me.  &quot;This  fun-  ny  fellow's  queer.&quot;  I  began  to  laugh,  and  he  began  to  laugh.  He  took  my  elbow  gently  in  his  hand  and  tried  to  ease  me  away  from  my  mother,  to  take  me,  I  thought,  to  his  bed.  And  that  word  &quot;bed&quot;  stuck  obstinately  in  my  mind  as  he  coaxed  me.  &quot;Come,  come  me,  I  am  like  woman.  Come.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  have  a  room?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  he  said,  nodding  and  tugging.  I  studied  him  for  a  moment  while  I  " b"let  my  millionth  drink  of  Blackbear  run  down  my  throat.  It  was  doing  me  no  good,  the  gin.  Perhaps  two  million  would  do  me  no  good.  My  fatigue  was  dangerous.  It  had  begun  to  corrode  all  the  vital  centers  of  my  system.  I  turned  to  deceit.  I  yielded.  I  pushed  away  from  the  bar  and  suffered  the  fellow  to  lead  me  off.  It  was  a  dirty  trick.  Once  flat  on  a  bed,  nothing  would  ever  wake  me.  In  the  morning,  I  would  ease  his  disappointment  with  some  pesos  if  he  had  not  already  taken  his  revenge  from  my  pockets.  That  was  my  reason-  ing.  I  am  an  American,  and  I  reason  that  deception  can  be  absolved,  rest  can  be  bought,  and  lusts  assuaged  by  mon-  ey.  But  now,  in  this  jungle,  I  cannot  buy  this  vulture  off,  nor  can  I  by  any  other  manipulation  of  capricious  reason  cause  him  to  quit  my  path,  for  he  is  no  creature  of  my  rational  mind,  he  is  arbi-  ter  of  my  soul;  and  here,  in  this  strange  country  of  dark  blood  and  intuition,  I  wonder  if  I  or  any  of  my  countrymen  have  one.  I  wonder  if  that  buzzard  will  not  simply  eat  us  straight  like  any  other  creature  dead  in  the  jungles,  like  any  dead  assin  the  field,  for  we  are  all  living  victims  of  our  own  deaths,  in-  flicted  upon  us  by  our  own  hands.  I  am  watching  him  now,  and  he  with  a  kind  of  sidelong  regard  is  watching  me.  He  stands,  ruffling  his  oil-black  feath-  ers,  in  a  spot  of  dim  sun  that  the  green  tracery  of  the  forest  lets  fall  upon  his  path.  Beyond  him  I  can  see  through  the  leaves  the  barest  dull  glint  of  the  Lagoon  of  IMusions,  La  Laguna  de  las  Ilusiones.  There  is  the  sullen  groan  of  thunder,  but  nothing  stirs-no  leaf,  no  air.  I  advance.  E  stumbled,  the  little  man  and  I,  like  blind  idiots  through  the  vis-  cous  mob  of  the  plaza,  but  I  was  not  entirely  blind.  I  saw  the  flash  of  water-the  fountain-and,  freeing  my-  self  from  my  admirer's  grasp,  I  made  for  it.  As  if  I  had  beenlong  gone  lost  in  the  Great  American  Desert,  I  plunged  my  head  into  the  bowl,  into  the  broad  stone  sea  of  clear,  cool  water,  open-     eyed.  I  stared  at  the  marble  floor,  ex-  pecting  to  see  the  shapes  of  ragged  claws,  of  shells,  seeing  instead  some  bottle  caps,  an  empty  Blackbear  bottle.  Emerging,  streaming  from  my  face  and  hair,  I  sent  my  watered  gaze  straight  up  to  the  close  and  separate  stars  and  felt  the  clawing  at  the  base  of  my  brain  ease  and  let  go.  Like  a  dog,  I  shook  water  from  my  head  and  looked  aroundme.  Jammed  in  the  crowd  on  a  tiled  bench  sat  two  of  the  young  loaf-bellied  coun-  trymen  I  had  seen  on  the  beach.  One  was  sick.  His  head  hung  between  his  knees,  while  the  other,  his  arm  across  his  buddy's  shoulders,  offered  solace  and  encouragement.  Their  girls  stood  near  enough  for  me  to  hear  some  con-  versation,  accompanied  by  many  up-  ward  castings  of  the  eyes.  &quot;I  told  him,  you  told  him,  Nickie  told  him,  but  oh  no,  not  our  Corky  Corcoran.  He's  got  to  brag  about,  you  know,  what  agreat  drinker  he  is.  He  was  doing  pushups  in  the  lobby  and  almost  had  a  heart  attack,  for  Christ's  sakes.&quot;  Out  of  the  center,  on  the  edges,  along  the  open  waterfront,  the  free  wind  of  the  Mexican  [REDACTED]  and  the  sense  of  wide  dark  water  loosened  a  little  more  the  grip  of  fatigue,  and  I  began  to  draw  deeply  into  my  lungs  the  cordial  air  smelling  savagely  of  fish  and  mollusk  and  salt  blood.  I  began  to  laugh  quietly  to  myself,  glancing  at  my  solicitous,  bug-eyed  companion.  It  was  a  dirty  trick,  but,  oh,  to  sleep.  There  was  a  car.  The  two  ofus  in  the  back  seat.  The  waterfront  behind.  Narrow  streets.  Music.  A  wide  dirt  road  flanked  by  sprawling  frame  houses,  carvel-planked  and  thinly  calcimined,  backed  by  a  sere,  scrawny  jungle,  rock-  ing  with  horrendous  jukes,  and  filled  with  girls.  We  stopped.  &quot;Come  me,&quot;  my  companion  said,  leaping  out.  &quot;You  like  woman.  I  am  like  woman.  You  pay???  I  tumbled  out  of  the  car,  giggling  helplessly.  I  knew  now  what  he  meant.  Oh,  it  was  a  dirty  trick!  &quot;You  mean,&quot;  I  said,  trying  to  subdue  my  laughter,  &quot;You  would  like  a  woman,  not  you    are  like  a  woman.  Oh,  that  was  a  dirty  trick.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  am  like  wom-  an.  You  pay?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  pay.  I'm  nmorteameri-  cano.  Of  course.&quot;  I  laid  my  arm  across  the  shoulders  of  my  bug-eyed  guest,  whose  need  was  clearly  urgent.  We  went  from  house  to  house,  lurching  back  and  forth  acrossthe  rutted  stony  road,  dancing  and  drinking  for  how  long  andon  what  reserve  of  strength  I  can-  not  tell,  but  when,  stripped  down  and  naked  broke,  I  dropped  beside  a  brown-  skinned  girl,  I  fell  dead  asleep  in  my  socks  with  &quot;Llorona&quot;  in  my  ears  and  the  smell  of  lime  trees  and  chlorinated  wood  in  my  nostrils.  Every  night  when  darkness  falls,  Llorona,  I  begin  to  think,  and  I  say,  What  use  is  the  bed  to  me,  Llorona,  If  you  do  not  come  to  sleep  with  me?  But  there  was  no  rest.  Even  there,  there  was  no  rest.  I  had  no  sooner  gone  under  than  I  was  shaken  and  punched  and  rattled  awake.  &quot;You  can't  sleep  here,  this  is  not  a  hotel,  I  don't  have  time  for  you  to  sleep  here.  Out!  Out!&quot;  Again  the  cock,  the  barking  of  dogs,  the  dawn.  The  girl  brought  in  my  loyal  friend  with  the  wild  hair  and  muscid  eyes,  who  helped  me  dress.  I  leaned  on  him  a  little  as  we  left  the  place.  She,  feeling  perhaps  that  she  had  been  too  harsh  in  throwing  me  out,  ran  after  us  with  two  bottles  of  beer,  on  the  house.  Then  there  were  only  the  two  ofus  in  the  rough  street  somewhere  beyond  the  end  of  the  bus  line  at  the  edge  of  the  jungle,  a  long  way  from  water.  But  there  was  a  breeze  and  a  roseate  horizon  and  the  cries  and  calls  from  the  undergrowth  of  creatures  who  fol-  lowed  the  natural  turn  of  light  and  dark,  instructed  by  mindless  Nature  when  to  sleep  and  rise  and  die.  My  body  shook,  slack  and  unjoined.  My  brain  hallucinated  from  time  to  time,  rising  up  occasionally  like  a  sea  bird  from  a  wave,  soaring  on  the  light  salt  air  in  exquisite  euphoria,  in  perfect  para-  " b"dise.  Thus  it  must  be  for  those  deep  divers  who,  at  a  certain  depth  and  time,  throw  off  their  masks  and  commit  themselves  to  terminal  ecstasy.  I  heard  giggling.  Small  girls.  My  belly  blazed.  Sweat  drained  from  my  pores.  The  girls  were  giggling  at  me,  the  Drunk  American,  lying  stomach  bare  on  the  bench  of  a  bus  stop.  Though  the  sun  was  hot,  it  was  not  high;  and  I  realized  the  horrid  truth  as  I  rose,  pulled  down  my  shirt,  and  began  to  walk  along  the  stone  bulkhead  of  the  port  where  I  had  come,  finally,  like  a  lemming  to  the  sea.  I  knew  that  I  had  passed  into  a  perilous  region  where  I  could  never  sleep  now,  because  my  fa-  tigue  would  not  allow  it.  Paradoxically,  I  moved  along  the  sea  wall  exactly  like  a  sleepwalker,  and,  like  a  sleepwalker,  I  seemed  to  know  where  I  was  going.  I  removed  my  gear  from  the  hotel,  where  the  old  man,  who  would  not  sleep  until  he  died,  watched  me  hand  the  things  to  a  crocodile  cab  and  watched  me  leave  more  dead  than  alive  but  awake,  oh  yes,  awake.  T  sees  me  coming,  but  it  does  not  move.  &quot;M  OcaAMBO.&quot;  &quot;La  playa?&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  el  hotel.  Hotel  Mocambo.&quot;  &quot;Si,  O.K.,  pero  es  muy  caro.&quot;  &quot;Never  mind.  I'm  stuffed  with  trav-  eller's  checks.&quot;  I  wandered  open-eyed  through  that  hotel's  baroque  maze  of  arcades  and  colonnades,  pools  on  pools,  peacocks  and  quetzal  birds,  white  arches,  efflorescence  of  palms,  exhalations  of  flowers,  the  distant  trumpet  of  the  sea,  an  enamelled  sky,  urns  and  frigate  birds.  No  room  for  one.  If  I  were  aparty  of  twelve,  they  would  open  a  wing.  But  no  rest  for  one  alone.  &quot;A  cropuerto.&quot;  &quot;Aeropuerto?&quot;  &quot;8i.  AcroPUER  to.&quot;  &quot;Adonde?&quot;  &quot;No  sabe.&quot;  &quot;A  cropuerto?&quot;  &quot;S1,  si,  acroPUERto!&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98O-K'&quot;)  One  precise  point  of  time  I  remem-  ber:ten-ten.  From  the  grinning  Ho-  tel  Mocambo  clock.  At  the  airport,  I  signed  a  check  and  paid  the  driver,  who  handed  out  my  gear;  then  I  looked  around  for  someplace  to  go.  Anyplace,  in  any  direction,  to  escape  that  restless  city.  I  read  the  board:  New  Orleans,  [REDACTED],  M\xc3\xa9rida,  [REDACTED],  Belize,  Minatitlin-Coatzacoalcos,  Tehuante-  pec-Juchitan,  Tuxtla  Guti\xc3\xa9rrez,  Pueb-  la,  Quezaltenango,  Tegucigalpa,  Mi-  ami,  Villahermosa,  Tampico.  Villaher-  mosa-there  was  a  plane  at  eleven  hours,  and,  yes,  there  was  a  place  for  me.  The  fare  was  modest.  The  Beauti-  ful  Town  was  far  enough  but  not  too  far,  and  it  would  be  full  of  empty  beds,  for  surely  no  one  ever  sojourned  long  in  the  jungles  of  Tabasco.  I  bought  the ticket,  checked  the  bags,  and  entered  the  restaurant  for  an  Orizaban  Supe-  rior.  I  sat  at  the  counter,  and  after  two  or  three  swallows  of  the  beer  my  head  began  to  droop.  I  was  brought  directly  to  attention,  however,  by  a  big  voice  that  said,  behind  me,  &quot;You're  Ameri-  can,  aren't  you,  boy?&quot;  I  turned  around  to  discover,  sitting  at  a  Micarta-topped  table,  an  enormous  man  and  a  straight-  jack  woman.  &quot;Come  join  us,&quot;  the  man  said.  Why  not?  After  all  the  strangers  I  had  joined  since  Wednesday,  two  true  Americans  couldn't  hurt  me.  &quot;You  look  tired.&quot;  I  smiled  winningly.  &quot;Me?  Oh  no,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  just  drunk,  that's  all.&quot;  I  dropped  down  at  their  table,  drag-  ging  my  bottle  by  two  fingers  to  my  lips.  &quot;You  ever  try  Dose  Ekas?&quot;  I  nodded,  my  beer  at  my  lips.  Low-  ering  the  bottle,  I  said,  &quot;I've  tried  them  all.&quot;  The  man  grinned.  &quot;I  can  believe  that.&quot;  &quot;Nobody'd  take  me.  Every  place  I  went,  they  threw  me  out.  They  even  threw  me  out  of  a-&quot;  Glancing  at  the  rigid  woman,  I  minded  my  words.  My  God,  she  was  awful-looking.  It  was  at  once  hot  and  cool  in  that  airport.  Sweat  oozed  from  my  face,  yet  I  shivered.  The  sun  poured  down  on  the  landing  field  while  the  commencement  of  a  norte  blew  leaves  and  papers  across  the  macadam  strip.  I  remember  that  hot-     " b"and-cold,  and  that  woman's  face.  She  was  past  forty.  Her  hair  was  dyed  brick  red.  It  was  lacquered  and  brittle.  She  had  a  pig  nose,  and  a  fish  mouth  heavily  larded  blood  red.  I  could  not  see  her  eyes,  because  they  lay  behind  winglike  rhine-  stone-encrusted  shades.  The  lobes  of  her  ears,  her  coarse  throat,  her  chicken  breast  all  bore  pounds  and  pounds  of  criminally  expensive  junk.  Once  I  had  her  fixed  in  my  gaze,  I  couldnot  take  my  eyes  off  her;  it  was  as  if  she  were  some  savage  goddess,  awesome  and  compelling,  something  wor-  shipped,  something  feared.  Surely,  like  some  far-wandering  Phoenicians,  the  men  ofus  have  carried  this,  our  priestess,  to  the  far  corners  of  the  earth.  Surely,  at  that  moment,  she  was  planted  not  only  in  the  airport  of  the  Rich  City  of  the  True  Cross,  Veracruz,  Mexi-  co,  but  in  the  airports,  the  best  hotels,  boulevards,  restaurants,  department  stores,  bazaars,  mu-  seums,  gardens,  public  palaces,  places  of  interest,  monuments,  caf\xc3\xa9s,  cocktail  lounges,  and  An-  glo-American  casbahs  in  every  capital  of  the  world,  including  [REDACTED].  As  I  said,  I  could  not  take  my  eyes  off  her.  My  dis-  eased  gaze  feasted  upon  the  sight.  &quot;Where  you  from?&quot;  the  man  asked.  &quot;America,  America,&quot;  I  said,  not  looking  at  him.  &quot;We're  from  [REDACTED]-only  down  here  they  call  it  Tey-  huss.&quot;  &quot;Are  plane?&quot;  &quot;Nosir,  we  live  down  here,  we're  waiting  for  some  old  friends  down  from  Galveston-only  I  think  the  lousy  spics  screwed  up  the  reservations.&quot;  &quot;'The  lousy  spics,&quot;  the  goddess  said.  &quot;They  run  a  good  airline,  all  right-  that  is,  if  you  don't  mind  eating  those  chili  beans  and  drinking  that  poison  tequila.  I  get  my  Daniels  down  here  by  the  case  straight  from  the  distillery  up  in  [REDACTED].  You  pay  for  it,  don't  kid  yourself,  but  you  pay  for  everything  in  this  world.  That's  why  we  make  our  money,  so  we  can  buy  what  we  want  and  pay  for  it.  I've  been  down  here  five  years  with  General  Consolidated  and  managed  to  pick  me  up  a  few  thousand  acres  of  my  own  of  mostly  henequen  over  in  that  Yucatan,  so  I  live  up  in  the  Federal  District  and   let  the  lousy  spics  run  the  plenmtation.&quot;  &quot;'The  lousy  spics,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;They  run  a  good  airline  if  you  don't  mind  that  mafiana  philosophy.  That's  why  I  let  the  lousy  spics  run  the  plent-  ation  for  me,  they  understand  their  own  people.&quot;  &quot;'The  lousy  spics.&quot;  &quot;Where  you  headed?  You  just  on  a  vacation?  You  look  like  you've  been  having  a  good  time,&quot;  &quot;Villahermosa.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Villahermosa?&quot;  &quot;That's  in  Tabasco  State.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  have  to  tell  me,  son,  I  know  where  it  is.  I've  been  all  over  this  country  down  here.  They  grow  a  lot  of  cacao  down  in  that  jungle,  and  you  can  swat  some  pretty  fancy  bugs  too.  What  are  you  going  there  for?&quot;     &quot;To  go  to  bed.  The  lousy  spics  threw  me  out  of  every  place  I-&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  don't  have  to  be  afraid  of  this  airline.  They  run  a  good  airline  because  Pan  Arm's  behind  them.  They're  all  right,  if  you  don't  mind-&quot;  &quot;If  you  don't  mind,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  need  another  beer.  May  I  get  you  one?&quot;  &quot;Not  for  us,  no  thanks,  son,  we  never  drink  except  at  home  where  we  know  what  we're  getting,  these  lousy  spics  don't  wash  the  bottles  half  the  time.&quot;  'The  lousy  spics,&quot;  she  said.  I  bought  four  bottles,  and  by  the  time  the  plane  was  called  I  was  left  with  one,  which  I  dragged  to  my  seat  like  a  pet.  I  nursed  and  succored  it  as  I  rose  at  last  into  the  cool  sky.  Sea  and  jungle.  Slow  rivers.  The  man-beast.  The  face  of  the  cat  turned  to  its  clouded  god.  The  lagoon  thunders.  La  Laguna  de  las  Ilusiones.  The  forest  is  a  dead  center.  I,  alone,  move.  I  try  to  rid  my  memory  of  those  monstrous  effigies  set  up  like  Gog  and  Magog  at  the  terminal,  but  they  remain.  I  remain.  It  sees  me  coming,  but  it  does  not  move.  I  move.  I  have  put  the  test  of  my  life  in  motion  and  I  cannot  stop  it.  I  pray  to  the  vulture  as  I  move:  Lord,  give  us  rest.  Give  us  rest  from  our  scavenging  selves.  Give  us  back  ourselves  as  low-  ing  creatures.  This  god  I  have  made,  this  vulture,  I  need  its  blessing.  I  need  its  abstinence.  I  must  pass  it  by  and  request  its  abstinence,  for  I  still  live.  This  is  my  belief.  I  still  live.  There  is  a  death  that  makes  no  sound,  Llorona.  I  am  beside  it.  It  turns  its  head,  draws  back,  the  black  beak  parts,  and  the  tongue  hisses.  It  Aisses,  but  it  does  not  strike.  I  am  not  carrion  to  eat,  nor  am  I  Man  to  fear.  Nevertheless,  I  have  passed  and  I  am  happy.  I  still  live.  The  lagoon  is  before  me  and  I  turn  away.  I  look  to  the  north.  Somewhere  to  the  north  is  the  border  of  my  own  country."