 THE  CONVERSATIONAL  BALL  women  talk  too  much,  and,  con-  versely,  husbands  never  listen.  A  proper  conjunction  of  these  two  clichés  of  human  conduct  can  produce  a  crisis  of  anything  but  trite  proportions,  as  was  proved  by  a  recent  incident  of  which  I  still  bear  the  scars-or  will  as  soon  as  the  wounds  heal.  Even  now  I  have  this  queasyapprehension  that  the  worst  is  yet  to  come.  The  qualm  before  the  storm,  you  might  say.  I  was  drinking  coffee  in  my  favorite  chair,  one  evening  after  dinner  several  weeks  ago,  when  I  dimly  sensed  that  my  wife  was  discoursing  at  length  on  something  that  perhaps  required  closer  attention  than,  through  the  fog  of  ab-  straction  with  which  I  listened,  I  was  paying  it.  She  was  in  fact  relating  a  dream  she  had  had,  but,  like  a  late  theatregoer  who  has  missed  an  essential  piece  of  exposition,  I  didn't  learn  that  until  it  was  too  late.  I  thought  she  was  talking  about  something  that  had  hap-  pened  to  her  that  day,  or  maybe  the  day  before.  &quot;I  was  wearing  my  new  slacks  you  know,  the  pink  ones  with  the  flower  print,&quot;  she  was  saying,  &quot;and  I  was  walking  downtown.  As  I  turned  the  corner  and  passed  the  library,  I  met  Jack  Brady.  We  stopped  a  minute  to  talk.&quot;  &quot;Oh?  How  is  Jack?&quot;  I  asked,  show-  ing  some  interest.  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;How  is  Jack?&quot;  &quot;All  right,  I  guess.  Why?  What  has  that  got  to  do  with  it?  You  see  him  on  the  train.&quot;  &quot;Not  every  day.  He  doesn't  even  go  in  every  day,  as  you  know.&quot;  I  was  only  trying  to  keep  the  conversational  ball  rolling.  &quot;But  go  on.  What  then?&quot;  &quot;&quot;Well,  suddenly  helooked  down  at  my  slacks  and  started  to  laugh.  He  asked  whether  they  were  new,  and  I  said  yes,  and  he  laughed  again.&quot;  &quot;Why,  that  son  of  a  bitch,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  just  like  him,  though.  Jack  likes  to  think  he's  the  answer  to  every  wom-  an's  prayer,  but  he's  really  a  pain  in  the  pancreas.  So  what  happened  then?  What  did  you  say?&quot;  &quot;Well,  naturally  I  took  offense,  and  asked  him  what  he  meant.  He  kind  of  looked  away  and  said  what  he  meant  was  that  I  was  one  of  the  few  women  who  understood  the  art  of  dressing  ab-  surdly.  He  was  trying  to  cover  up,  you  see,&quot;  I  SUPPOSE  it's  true  enough  that  &quot;He's  a  lout.  Yet  at  the  same  time  mealymouthed.  Then  what?&quot;  &quot;Then  I  left  him,  and  hadn't  gone  far  up  Main  Street  when  I  was  glad  to  run  into  Louise  Maley,  dressed  in  slacks,  like  me,  and  I  told  her  what  Jack  Brady  had  said.  Then  we  decided  to  have  a  cup  of  tea  together.  ...&quot;  Here  my  attention  wandered  again  from  an  account  of  what  was  an  appar-  ently  interminable  ramble  through  town.  Catching  a  word  here  and  there  to  keep  some  vague  connection  with  the  thread  of  the  narrative,I  turned  over  in  my  mind  the  prospects  of  lunch  in  town  the  next  day  with  an  office  col-  league  of  tender  years  and  notable  charms.  I  mentally  sorted  out  the  vari-  ous  midtown  restaurants  from  among  which  a  choice  might  be  made,  occa-  sionally  turning  to  nod  at  my  wife  with  the  expression  of  an  intelligent  listener.  I  forgot  about  the  whole  thing  until  the  next  morning  when  I  caught  sight  of  Jack  Brady  in  the  bar  car  on  the  way  to  the  city,  and  I  bristled.  The  bar  car  is  not  serving  at  that  hour,  of  course,  but  Jack  is  one  of  the  habitués  who  ride  it  then  in  anticipation  of  the  evening  return,  when  it  is.  His  eyes  seemed  a  little  bleary  now,  probably  the  result  of  a  heavy  load  the  night  before,  and  I  hoped  for  his  sake  he  had  had  a  few  when  he  had  insulted  my  wife.  I  could  clearly  not  let  that  33  pass,  though  obviously  I  would  not  stop  to  make  an  issue  of  it  in  public-  even  the  low-consciousness  public  rep-  resented  by  the  score  or  so  of  somnam-  bulists  slumped  behind  their  Tirmeses.  I  returned  his  greeting  with  a  curt  snub,  and  went  on  through  to  a  coach  farther  up  front.  Settled  down  in  a  seat  there,  I  found  myself  unable  to  concentrate  on  my  own  Times.  'The  challenge  I  must  raise,  and  the  &quot;satisfaction&quot;  I  would  positively  require,  hung  like  a  cloud  over  my  day.  Well  before  we  reached  the  city,  I  had  decided  to  have  it  out  the  minute  we  pulled  into  Grand  Central.  I  was  waiting  for  him  at  the  train  gate  as  he  made  his  way  along  the  station  platform.  &quot;Jack?&quot;  I  said,  accosting  him.  &quot;Hi,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  He  looked  really  awful,  close  up.  His  eyes  were  red-rimmed,  and  he  was  cough-  ing  into  a  handkerchief.  He  had  evi-  dently  caught  a  heavy  summer  cold.  &quot;I  want  to  talkto  you  a  minute.  Let's  step  over  here.&quot;  With  a  jerk  of  my  head,  I  led  the  way  back  inside  the  train  gate  and  toward  a  baggage  cart,  behind  which  it  seemed  to  me  we  could  most  de-  cently  have  this  thing  out.  We  both  had  on  gabardine  suits,  and  we  were     &quot;Y  ou  must  be  terribly  proud.  I?  s  the  finest  thing  you've  done.&quot;  34  swinging  attaché  cases  of  the  same  shape,  color,  and  size,  and  I  had  a  brief,  Surrealist  vision  of  two  com-  muters  flailing  one  another  to  death  with  identical  luggage-reductio  ad  absurdum  of  the  Age  of  Conformity.  Well,  chivalry,  at  least,  was  not  dead.  When  we  were  out  of  view,  I  turned  and  faced  him  squarely.  &quot;Look,  fellow,  I  take  exception  to  that  crack  you  made  to  my  wife,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  crack?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  &quot;Youknow  very  well  what  I  mean.  The  slacks.  That  seem  to  re-  fresh  your  memory,  Jack?&quot;  His  face  was  something  to  behold  as  he  coughed  again  into  the  handkerchief,  which  he  had  not  yet  pocketed,  look-  ing  away  and  shaking  his  head  in  puzzlement.  &quot;When  was  this?&quot;  I  opened  my  mouth  to  an-  swer  several  times  before  a  lull  in  his  coughing  fit  permitted.  The  whole  thing  was  like  some  dream.  &quot;Don't  stall.  It  doesn't  become  you,  and  hard-  ly  serves  to  dignify  this  thing.  You  know  very  well  when  this  was,  and  what  it  was.  It  so  happens  that  I  think  my  wife  looks  very  good  in  slacks.&quot;  &quot;Why,  none  better,  whah-?&quot;  &quot;Soft  soap  will  get  you  nowhere.  We  don't  behave  toward  women  that  way-that's  the  long  and  the  short  of  it.  I  demand  an  apology,  not  to  me  but  to  her,&quot;  I  said,  and  added,  tapping  him  on  the  chest,  &quot;and  I  demand  it  by  tonight!&quot;  With  that,  I  turned  on  my  heel  and  marched  out  of  the  station.  N  can  be  imagined,  my  day  in  the  city  was  not  in  the  least  bright-  ened  by  the  relief  of  having  spoken  up  and  got  that  part  of  it  over  with.  It  was  a  rotten  day,  hardly  improved  when  this  office  colleague  of  mine  turned  out  to  be  busy  for  lunch.  &quot;I  have  a  date  with  this,  um,  friend  I  met  at  the  party  in  Teaneck  I  was  telling  you  about,&quot;  she  said.  She  was  apparently  ignorant  of  the  present-day  vogue  decreeing  that  young  girls  be  seen  in  the  best  restaurants  with  older  men,  nor  had  I  the  time  or  the  strength  to  try  to  bring  her  aw  courant  just  now.  I  had  a  grilled-cheese  sand-  wich  sent  up  to  my  office,  and  relieved  my  solitude  by  munching  it  into  sug-  gestive  shapes.  It  had  come  uncut,  and  I  was  able,  by  careful  nibbling  from  the  crusts  inward,  to  mold  it  into  a  very  satisfactory  female  silhouette-  man,  but      haas  *  S  which  I  immediately  defaced  into  a  lampoon  of  this  office  colleague  by  add-  ing  the  two  pickle  slices  for  big  feet,  and  making  a  funny  hat  of  strands  of  the  coleslaw  that  accompanied  the  sandwich  in  a  small  fluted  cup,  com-  plete  with  disposable  plastic  fork.  I  had  this  composition  laid  out  on  the  wax  wrapper  on  top  of  my  desk,  and  was  admiring  the  effect  asI  sipped  iced  tea  from  a  container  when  my  telephone  rang.  It  was  my  wife.  &quot;What.  In  God's  name.  Have  you  done.  Now?&quot;  she  said,  spacing  her  words  in  the  dramatically  clipped  man-  ner  of  one  long  burdened  with  the  need  for  some  device  to  express  utter  and  total  exas-  y  peration.  &quot;Why?  What  have  I  done  now?&quot;  &quot;Jack  Brady  just  called  me,  from  the  city-&quot;  &quot;As  damn  well  he  might.  I  buttonholed  him  this  morning  and  insisted  onan  apology.&quot;  &quot;What  for?&quot;  &quot;For  that  crack  he  made  about  your  slacks.  What  else?&quot;  &quot;That's  what  I  thought.&quot;  There  was  a  long  sigh,  after  which  she  said,  &quot;Now,  look.  Are  you  listening  very  carefully  now,  for  once?  Because  this  time-  What's  that  guz-  zling  noise?  Are  you  drinking  some-  thing?&quot;  &quot;Just  some  iced  tea.  In  my  office.  But  shoot.  What's  this  all  about?&quot;  &quot;It's  all  about  some  more  confusion  created  by  your  not  paving  any  atten-  tion  to  anything  anyone  tells  you.  But  listen  very  closely  now.  That  was  a  dream  I  was  telling  you  about,  not  something  that  happened.  Jack  didn't  say  it  to  me,  I  dreamed  he  did,  that's  all.  Now  have  you  got  it  straight?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  good  [REDACTED];  I  said.  &quot;I'm  sor-  ry.  I've  made  a  mess  of  things.  Poor  Jack.  And  you,  too.  I'm  terribly  sorry.  But  I'll  make  it  up  to  you,  and  I'll  square  it  with  Jack,  too,  tonight  on  the-&quot;  &quot;No.  The  best  thing  is  to  forget  about  the  whole  business.  I  think  I  handled  it  the  only  way.  He  really  did  call  to  apologize,  figuring  he  Aad  said  something  to  me  after  a  few  drinks  at  that  beach  party  the  other  night.  It  wouldn't  be  the  first  time  he  couldn't  remember  what  he  said  to  somebody.  It's  always  happening  to  him.  I  just  said  that  you  had  misunderstood  what  I'dtold  you-a  mixup  for  everybody  to  forget  as  soon  as  possible.  I  didn't  tell  him  the  truth.  Confusion  now  hath  made  his  masterpiece,  but  I  do  think  it's  better  this  way,  and  lets  him  off  just  as  well.  So  just  turn  it  off  if  he  brings  it  up,  and  buy  him  a  drink.  And  maybe  after  this  you'll  listen  when  somebody's  talking  to  you.  Goodbye!&quot;  THE  aftermath  can  be  readily  im-  agined.  I  liszen  attentively  these  days  when  nothing  much  is  being  said.  The  corrosive  silences  are,  how-  ever,  gradually  beginning  to  diminish  in  both  length  and  severity,  and  de-  spite  the  occasional  twinges  of  appre-  hension  that  the  worst  is  yet  to  come,  I  hope  that  things  will  soon  be  back  to  normal.  Meanwhile,  there  was  a  kind  of  epilogue  to  the  whole  episode  that  rounds  it  off  in  a  rather  neat  fashion,  I  think.  This  business  colleague  came  into  my  office  one  day  to  announce  that  the  courtship  by  the  chap  in  Teaneck  had  proved  to  be  whirlwind,  and  flashed  a  ring  to  prove  it.  She  then  hemmed  and  hawed  a  moment  in  a  way  that  indi-  cated  she  had  a  favor  to  ask.  &quot;I  don't  know  what  to  give  him  for  a  wedding  present,  personally,  from  me,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  I  was  wondering  if  you  might  have  any  suggestions.  Get  the  point  of  view  of  a  man  who's  more,  um,  seasoned.&quot;  &quot;If  you're  free  for  lunch,  we  can  discuss  it,&quot;  I  said.  I  knew  instantly  what  to  suggest,  but  didn't  spring  my  idea  till  we  were  well  into  our  brandies.  &quot;By  all  means  give  him  a  leather  club  chair,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;A  plain.  Old-fashioned.  Leather  club  chair  is  what  every  man  wants  but  no-  body  ever  thinks  of  getting  him.  Go  to  Macy's.  I  got  mine  there.&quot;  She  nodded  thoughtfully,  while  I  smiled  inscrutably  to  myself,  knowing  what  she  did  not  know  but  would  soon  enough  learn:  to  wit,  the  sequel  to  the  fairy  tale  that  she  was,  for  a  brief  mo-  ment,  living.  The  princess  is  awakened  from  her  sleep  by  the  kiss  of  a  true  lover,  all  right  enough,  but  that's  not  the  end  of  the  story  by  a  long  shot.  Some  ofus  are  familiar  with  the  fuller  version,  which  is  never  told.  How  they  get  married,  and  how  after  dinnerthey  sit  down  together  and  she  begins  to  talk  to  him.  And  she  talks  and  she  talks,  till  at  last  his  head  nods  on  his  chest,  and  he  sleeps,  forever,  and  ever,  and  ever. 