 b"THE  first  time  I  robbed  Tiffany's,  it  was  raining.I  bought  an  imita-  tion-diamond  ring  at  a  costume-  jewelry  place  in  the  Forties.  Then  I  walked  up  to  Tiffany's  in  the  rain  and  asked  to  look  at  rings.  The  clerk  had  a  haughty  manner.  I  looked  at  six  or  eight  diamond  rings.  They  began  at  eight  hundred  and  went  up  to  ten  thousand.  There  was  one  priced  at  three  thousand  that  looked  to  me  like  the  paste  in  my  pocket.  I  was  examin-  ing  this  when  an  elderly  woman-an  old  customer,  I  guessed-appeared  on  the  other  side  of  the  counter.  The  clerk  rushed  over  to  greet  her,  and  I  switched  rings.  Then  I  called,  &quot;'Thank  you  very  much.  I'll  think  it  over.&quot;  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  the  clerk  said  haughtily,  and  I  went  out  of  the  store.  It  was  as  simple  as  pie.  I  walked  down  to  the  diamond  market  in  the  Forties  and  sold  the  ring  for  eighteen  hundred.  No  questions  were  asked.  Then  I  went  to  Thomas  Cook  and  found  that  the  Conte  di  Salvini  was  sailing  for  Genoa  at  five.  This  was  in  August,  and  there  was  plenty  of  space  on  the  eastbound  crossing.  I  took  a  cabin  in  first  class  andwas  standing  at  the  bar  when  she  sailed.  The  bar  was  not  officially  open,  of  course,  but  the  bar  Jack  gave  me  a  Martini  in  a  tumbler  to  hold  me  until  we  got  into  international  waters.  The  Salvini  had  an  exceptionally  percussive  whistle,  and  you  may  have  heard  it  if  you  were  anywhere  near  midtown,  al-  though  who  ever  is  at  five  o'clock  on  an  August  afternoon?  That  night  I  met  Mrs.  Winwar  and  her  elderly  husband  at  the  horse  races.  He  promptly  got  seasick,  and  we  plunged  into  the  marvellous  skuldug-  gery  of  illicit  love.  The  passed  notes,  the  phony  telephone  calls,  the  affected  in-  difference,  and  what  happened  when  we  were  behind  theclosed  door  of  my  cabin  made  my  theft  of  a  ring  seem  guileless.  Mr.  Winwar  recovered  in  Gibraltar,  but  this  only  seemed  like  a  challenge,  and  we  carried  on  under  his  nose.  We  said  goodbye  in  Genoa,  where  I  bought  a  second-hand  Fiat  and  started  down  the  coast.  I  got  to  Montraldo  late  one  after-  noon.  I  stopped  there  because  I  was  tired  of  driving.  There  was  a  semicir-  cular  bay,  set  within  high  stone  cliffs,  and  one  of  those  beaches  that  are  lined  with  caf\xc3\xa9s  and  bathing  houses.  There  were  two  hotels,  a  Grand  and  a  National,  and  I  didn't  care  for  either  one  of  them,  and  a  waiter  in  a  caf\xc3\xa9told  me  I  could  rent  a  room  in  the  villa  on  the  cliff.  It  could  be  reached,  he  said,  either  by  a  steep  and  curving  road  or  by  a  flight  of  stone  steps-one  hundred  and  twenty-seven,  I  discovered  later-that  led  from  the  back  garden  down  into  the  village.  I  took  my  car  up  the  curving  road.  The  cliff  was  covered  with  rosemary,  and  the  rosemary  was  covered  with  the  village  laundry,  drying  in  the  sun.  There  were  signs  on  the  door  in  five  languages,  say-  ing  that  rooms  were  for  rent.  I  rang,  and  a  thickset,  bellicose  servant  opened  the  door.  I  learned  that  her  name  was  Assunta.  I  never  saw  any  relaxation  of  her  bellicosity.  In  church,  when  she  plunged  up  the  aisle  to  take  Holy  Com-  munion,  she  looked  as  if  she  were  going  to  knock  the  priest  down  and  mess  up  the  acolyte.  She  said  I  could  have  a  room  if  I  paid  a  week's  rent  in  advance,  and  I  had  to  pay  her  before  I  was  allowed  to  cross  the  threshold.  The  place  was  a  ruin,  but  the  white-  washed  room  she  showed  me  into  was  in  a  little  tower,  and  through  a  broken  window  the  room  had  a  broad  view  of  the  sea.  The  one  luxury  was  a  gas  ring.  There  was  no  toilet,  and  there  was  no  running  water;  the  water  I  washed  in  had  to  be  hauled  out  of  a  well  in  a  leaky  marmalade  can.  I  was  obviously  the  only  guest.  That  first  afternoon,  while  Assunta  was  prais-  ing  the  healthfulness  of  the  sea  air,  I  heard  a  querulous  and  elegant  voice  calling  to  us  from  the  courtyard.  I  went  down  the  stairs  ahead  of  the  servant,  and  intro-  duced  myself  to  an  old  woman  standing  by  the  well.  She  was  short,  frail,  and  animated,  and  spoke  such  a  flowery  Roman  that  I  wondered  if  this  wasn't  a  sort  of  cultural  or  social  dust  thrown  into  one's  eyes  to  conceal  the  fact  that  her  dress  was  ragged  and  dirty.  &quot;I  see  you  have  a  gold  wristwatch,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I,  too,  have  a  gold  wristwatch.  We  will  have  this  in  common.&quot;  The  servant  turned  to  her  and  said,  &quot;Go  to  the  devil!&quot;  &quot;But  it  is  a  fact.  The  gentleman  and  I  do  both  have  gold  wristwatches,&quot;  the  old  lady  said.  &quot;It  will  make  us  sympa-  thetic.&quot;  &quot;Bore,&quot;  the  servant  said.  &quot;Rot  in  hell.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  thank  you,  treasure  of  my  house,  light  of  my  life,&quot;  the  old  lady  said,  and  made  her  way  toward  an  open  door.  The  servant  put  her  hands  on  her     37  hips  and  screamed,  &quot;Witch!  Frog!  Pig!&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  thank  you,  thank  you  infinitely,&quot;  the  old  lady  said,  and  went  in  at  the  door.  HAT  night,  at  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  I  asked  about  the  signorina  and  her  serv-  ant,  and  the  waiter  was  fully  informed.  The  signorine,  he  said,  came  from  a  no-  ble  Roman  family,  from  which  she  had  been  expelled  because  ofa  romantic  and  unsuitable  love  affair.  She  had  lived  as  a  hermit  in  Montraldo  for  fifty  years.  As-  sunta  had  been  brought  here  from  Rome  to  be  her  donna  di  servizio,  but  all  she  did  for  the  old  lady  these  days  was  to  go  into  the  village  and  buy  her  some  bread  and  wine.  She  had  robbed  the  old  wom-  an  of  all  her  possessions-she  had  even  taken  the  bed  from  her  room-and  she  now  kept  her  a  prisoner  in  the  villa.  Both  the  Grand  Hotel  and  the  National  were  luxurious  and  commodious.  Why  did  I  stay  in  such  a  place?  I  stayed  because  of  the  view,  because  I  had  paid  my  rent  in  advance,  and  be-  cause  I  was  curious  about  the  eccen-  tric  old  spinster  and  her  cranky  servant.  They  began  quarrelling  early  the  next  morning.  Assunta  opened  up  with  ob-  scenity  and  abuse.  The  signzorine  coun-  tered  with  elaborate  sarcasm.  It  was  a  depressing  performance.  I  wondered  if  the  old  lady  was  really  a  prisoner,  and  later  in  the  morning,  when  I  saw  her  alone  in  the  courtyard,  I  asked  her  if  she  would  like  to  drive  with  me  to  Tambura,  the  next  village  up  the  coast.  She  said,  in  her  flowery  Roman,  that  she  would  be  delighted  to  join  me.  She  wanted  to  have  her  watch,her  gold  watch,  repaired.  The  watch  was  of  great  value  and  beauty  and  there  was  only  one  man  she  dared  entrust  it  to.  He  was  in  Tambura.  While  we  were  talking,  Assunta  joined  us.  &quot;Why  do  you  want  to  go  to  Tam-  bura?&quot;  she  asked  theold  lady.  &quot;I  want  to  have  my  gold  watch  re-  paired,&quot;  the  old  lady  said.  &quot;You  don't  have  a  gold  watch,&quot;  As-  sunta  said.  &quot;That  is  true,&quot;the  old  lady  said.  &quot;I  no  longer  have  a  gold  watch,  but  I  used  to  have  a  gold  watch.  I  used  to  have  a  gold  watch,  and  I  used  to  have  a  gold  pencil.&quot;  &quot;You  can't  go  to  Tambura  to  have  your  watch  repaired  if  you  don't  have  a  watch,&quot;  Assunta  said.  &quot;That  is  true,  light  of  my  life,  " b"treasure  of  my  house,&quot;  theold  lady  said,  and  she  went  in  at  her  door.  I  SPENT  most  of  my  time  on  the  beach  and  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9s.  The  fortunes  of  the  resort  seemed  to  be  middling.  The  waiters  complained  about  business,  but  thenthey  always  do.  The  smell  of  the  sea  was  riggish  but  unfresh,  and  I  used  to  think  with  homesickness  of  the  wild  and  magnificent  beaches  of  my  own  country.  Gay  Head  is,  I  know,  sinking  into  the  sea,  but  the  sinkage  at  Mon-  traldo  seemed  to  be  spiritual-as  if  the  waves  were  eroding  the  vitality  of  that  place.  The  sea  was  incandescent;  the  light  was  clear  but  not  brilliant.  The  flavor  of  Montraldo,  asI  remember  it,  was  immutable,  intimate,  depleted-  everything  I  detest;  for  shouldn't  the  soul  of  man  be  as  limpid  and  cutting  as  a  diamond?  The  waves  spoke  in  French  or  Italian-now  and  then  a  word  of  dialect-but  they  seemed  to  speak  with-  out  force.  One  afternoon  a  remarkably  beauti-  ful  woman  came  down  the  beach,  fol-  lowed  by  a  boy  of  about  eight,  I  should  say,  and  an  Italian  wom-  an  dressed  in  black-a  maid.  They  carried  sandwich  bags  from  the  Grand  Hotel,  and  my  guess  was  that  the  boy  lived  mostly  in  hotels.  He  was  pitiful.  The  maid  took  some  toys  from  an  assortment  she  carried  in  a  string  bag.  They  Seemed  to  be  all  wrong  for  his  age.  There  was  a  sand  bucket,  a  shovel,  /  some  molds,  a  whiffle  1  ball,  and  an  old-fash-  I  |  ioned  pair  of  water  |  wings.  I  suspected  that  the  mother,  stretched  f  out  on  a  blanket  with  an  -American  novel,  was  a  divorc\xc3\xa9e,  and  that  she  would  present-  ly  have  a  drink  with  me  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9.  With  this  in  mind,  I  got  to  my  feet  and  offered  to  play  whiffle  ball  with  the  boy.  He  was  delighted  to  have  some  company,  but  he  could  neither  throw  nor  catch  a  ball,  and,  making  a  guess  at  his  tastes,  I  asked,  with  one  eye  on  the  mother,  if  he  would  like  me  to  build  him  a  sand  cas-  tle.  He  would.  I  built  a  water  moat,  then  an  escarpment  with  curved  stairs,  a  dry  moat,  a  crenellated  wall  with  can-  non  positions,  and  a  cluster  of  round  towers  with  parapets.  I  worked  as  if  the  impregnability  of  the  place  was  a  reality,  and  when  it  was  completed  I  set  flags,  made  of  candy  wrappers,  flying  from  every  tower.  I  thought  naively  that  it  was  beautiful,  and  so  did  the  boy,  but  when  I  called  his  mother's  attention  to  my  feat  she  said,  &quot;Andiamo.&quot;  The  maid  gathered  up  the  toys,  and  off  they  went,  leaving  me,  a  grown  man  in  a  strange  country,  with  a  sand  castle.  At  Montraldo,  the  high  point  of  the  day  came  at  four,  when  there  was  a  band  concert.  This  was  the  largesse  of  the  municipality.  The  bandstand  was  wooden,  Turkish  in  inspiration,  and  weathered  by  the  sea  winds.  The  musi-  cians  sometimes  wore  uniforms,  some-  times  bathing  suits,  and  their  number  varied  from  day  to  day,  but  they  always  played  Dixieland.  I  don't  think  they  were  interested  in  the  history  of  jazz.  I  just  think  they'd  found  some  old  arrangements  in  a  trunk  and  were  stuck  with  them.  The  music  was  comical,  accelerated-they  seemed  to  be  play-  ing  for  some  ancient  ballroom  team.  &quot;Clarinet  Marmalade,&quot;  &quot;China  Boy,&quot;  &quot;Tiger  Rag,&quot;  &quot;Careless  Love&quot;  -how  stirring  it  was  to  hear  this  old,  old  jazz  explode  in  the  salty  air.  The  concert  ended  at  five,  when  most  of  the  musi-  cians  packed  up  their  instruments  and  went  out  to  sea  with  the  sardine  fleet  and  the  bathers  returned  to  the  caf\xc3\xa9s  and  the  village.  Men,  women,  and  children  on  a  beach,  band  music,  sea  grass,  and  sandwich  hampers  remind  me  much  more  forcibly  than  classical  landscapes  of  our  legendary  ties  to  paradise.  So  I  would  go  up  with  the  others  to  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  where,  one  day,  I  befriended  Lord  and  Lady  Rockwell,  who  asked  me  for  cock-  tails.  You  may  wonder  why  I  put  these  titles  down  so  breathlessly,  and  the  rea-  son  is  that  my  father  was  a  waiter.  He  wasn't  an  ordinary  waiter;  he  used  to  work  at  a  dinner-dance  spot  in  one  of  the  big  hotels.  One  night  he  lost  his  temper  at  a  drunken  brute,  pushed  his  face  into  a  plate  of  cannelloni,  and  left  the  premises.  The  union  suspended  him  for  three  months,  but  he  was,  in  a  way,  a  hero,  and  when  he  went  back  to  work  they  put  him  on  the  banquet  shift,  where  he  passed  mushrooms  to  kings  and  presidents.  He  saw  a  lot  of  the  world,  but  I  sometimes  wonder  if  the  world  ever  saw  much  more  of  him  than  the  sleeve  of  his  red  coat  and  his  suave  and  handsome  face,  a  little  above  the  a  candlelightt  It.  -  must  4  have  been  like  living  in  I  a  world  divided  by  a  sheet  of  one-way  glass.  Sometimes  I  am  re-  minded  of  him  by  those  pages  and  guards  in  Shakespeare  who  come  in  from  the  left  and  stand  at  a  door,  estab-  lishing  by  their  cos-  tumes  the  fact  that  this  is  4974616c79  or  Arden.  You  scarcely  see  their  faces,  they  never  speak  a  lines;  nor  did  my  father,  and  when  the  after-dinner  speeches  began  he  would  vanish  like  the  pages  onstage.  I  tell  people  that  he  " b"was  inthe,  administrative  end  of  the  hotel  business,  but  actually  he  was  a  waiter,  a  banquet  waiter.  The  Rockwells'  party  was  large,  and  I  left  at  about  ten.  A  hot  windwas  blowing  off  the  sea.  I  was  later  told  that  this  was  the  sirocco.  It  was  a  desert  wind,  and  so  oppressive  that  I  got  up  several  times  during  the  night  to  drink  some  mineral  water.  A  boat  offshore  was  sounding  its  foghorn.  In  the  morn-  ing,  it  was  both  foggy  and  suffocating.  While  I  was  making  some  coffee,  As-  sunta  and  the  signorine  began  their  morning  quarrel.  Assunta  started  off  with  the  usual  &quot;Pig!  Dog!  Witch!  Dirt  of  the  streets!&quot;  Leaning  from  an  open  window,  the  whiskery  old  woman  sent  down  her  flowery  replies:  &quot;Dear  one.  Beloved.  Blessed  one.  Thank  you,  thank  you.&quot;  I  stood  in  the  door  with  my  coffee,  wishing  they  would  schedule  their  disputes  for  some  other  time  of  day.  The  quarrel  was  suspended  while  the  signorine  came  down  the  stairs  to  get  her  bread  and  wine.  Then  it  started  up  again:  &quot;Witch!  Frog!  Frog  of  frogs.  Witch  of  witches!,&quot;  etc.  The  old  lady  countered  with  &quot;Treasure!  Light!  Treasure  of  my  house!  Light  of  my  life!,&quot;  etc.  Then  there  was  a  scufflie-a  tug  of  war  over  the  loaf  of  bread.  I  saw  Assunta  strike  the  old  woman  cruelly  with  the  edge  of  her  hand.  She  fell  on  the  steps  and  began  to  moan  &quot;Aiee!  Aieee!&quot;  Even  these  cries  of  pain  seemed  florid.  I  ran  across  the  courtyard  to  where  she  lay  in  a  dis-  jointed  heap.  Assunta  began  to  scream  at  me,  &quot;I  am  not  culpable,  I  am  not  culpable!&quot;  'The  old  lady  was  in  great  pain.  &quot;Please,  Signore,&quot;  she  asked,  &quot;please  find  the  priest  for  me!&quot;  I  picked  her  up.  She  weighed  no  more  than  a  child,  and  her  clothing  smelled  of  soil.  I  carried  her  up  the  stairs  into  a  high-  ceilinged  room  festooned  with  cobwebs  and  put  her  onto  a  couch.  Assunta  was  on  my  heels,  screaming,  &quot;I  am  not  culpable!&quot;  Then  I  started  down  the  one  hundred  and  twenty-seven  steps  to  the  village.  The  fog  streamed  through  the  air,  and  the  African  wind  felt  like  a  furnace  draft.  No  one  answered  the  door  at  the  priest's  house,  but  I  found  him  in  the  church,  sweeping  the  floor  with  a  broom  made  of  twigs.  I  was  excited  and  im-  patient,  and  the  more  excited  I  became  the  more  slow-moving  was  the  priest.  First,  he  had  to  put  his  broom  in  a  closet.  The  closet  door  was  warped  and  wouldn't  shut,  and  he  spent  an  uncon-  scionable  amount  of  time  trying  to  close  it.  I  finally  went  outside  and  waited  on  the  porch.  It  took  him  half  anhour  to  get  collected,  and  then,  instead  of  starting  for  the  villa,  we  went  down  into  the  village  to  find  an  acolyte.  Presently  a  young  boy  joined  us,  pulling  on  a  soiled  lace  soutane,  and  we  started  up  the  stairs.  The  priest  negotiated  ten  steps  and  then  sat  down  to  rest.  I  had  time  to  smoke  a  cigarette.  Then  ten  more  steps  and  another  rest,  and  whenwe  were  halfway  up  the  stairs,  I  began  to  wonder  if  he  would  ever  make  it.  His  face  had  turned  from  red  to  purple,  and  the  noises  from  his  respiratory  tract  were  harsh  and  desperate.  We  finally  arrived  at  the  door  of  the  villa.  The  acolyte  lit  his  censer.  Then  we  made  our  way  into  that  ruined  place.  The  windows  were  open.  There  was  sea  fog  in  the  air.  The  old  woman  was  in  great  pain,  but  the  notes  of  her  voice  remained  gen-  teel,  as  I  expect  they  truly  were.  &quot;She  is  my  daughter,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Assunta.  She  is  my  daughter,  my  child.&quot;  Then  Assunta  screamed,  &quot;Liar!  Liar!&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  no,&quot;  the  old  lady  said,  &quot;you  are  my  child,  my  only  child.  That  is  why  I  have  cared  for  you  all  my  life.&quot;  Assunta  began  to  cry,  and  stamped  down  the  stairs.  From  the  window,  I  saw  her  crossing  the  courtyard.  When  the  priest  began  to  administer  the  last  rites,  I  went  out.  I  kept  a  sort  of  vigil  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9.  The  church  bells  tolledat  three,  and  a  little  later  news  came  down  from  the  villa  that  the  signorina  was  dead.  No  one  in  the  caf\xc3\xa9  seemed  to  suspect  that  they  were  anything  but  an  eccentric  old  spinster  and  a  cranky  servant.  At  four  o'clock  the  band  concert  opened  up  with  &quot;Tiger  Rag.&quot;  I  moved  that  night  from  the  villa  to  the  Hotel  National,  and  left  Mon-  traldo  in  the  morning. "