 MAN'S  FACE  (A  NEw  Nover  mm  Forty  Coaxtar  CHarrERs)  Worp  AgBout  turAUTHOR:  After  ten  dreary  years  writing  program  notes  for  TV  Guide,  Redburn  Backspace  completed,  just  be-  fore  he  died,  the  forty  beautiful,  ellipti-  cal,  ethereal  chapters  of  his  visionary  novelorama,  &quot;Man's  Face.&quot;  It  may  be  suggested  that  his  prolonged  nestle  un-  der  the  wing  of  Triangle  Publications  adversely  affected  his  style,  if  not  his  mind;  this  we,  his  editors,  must  strenu-  ously  dispute.  He  was  a  man  of  few  words,  and  his  unique  vision  of  life  is  now  fixed  forever  in  the  pages  of  &quot;Man's  Face.&quot;  I.  Tur  Lanp  While  taking  killer  Vince  Bigly  back  to  prison,  Mark  Foreman  is  joined  by  ex-convict  Chris  Milk,  who  has  cutthe  telegraph  wires  to  [REDACTED].  II.  Tur  Proprius  Gladys  is  insulted  by  a  man  in  a  movie  theatre.  III.  Jim  Gladys  asks  Mark  to  save  Jim's  ro-  mance,  but  killer  Vince  Bigly  interferes.  &quot;Patriotism&quot;  is  explained  in  a  visit  to  Fort  Ticonderoga.  IV.  Priurs  When  a  beautiful  débutante  is  strangled,  a  sleuth  from  [REDACTED]  Yard  begins  to  investigate  the  life  of  his  prime  suspect,  Jim.  V.  Bet,  Wurrze  Is  Tuy  Srmo?  Dr.  John  Bang  demonstrates  bee  communication.  VI.  Tuer  Way  Wesr  At  a  river  crossing,  the  travellers  learn  that  killer  Vince  Bigly  has  the  only  barge.  VII.  Tur  Vist  Mark  thinks  that  his  father  betrayed  his  496e646961n  mother  by  deciding  to  re-  marry.  Monkeys  and  dogs  perform  un-  usual  feats.  VIII.  BrEakimmc  Pomt  Sir  Kenneth  Clark  attempts  to  ap-  proach  nature  without  preconceived  ideas.  IX.  Hour  or  DEcision  Mark  was  adopted  by  the  496e646961ns.  Now  his  496e646961n  father  wants  him  to  re-  turn  to  his  own  people.  The  sheriff's  brother  is  lost  in  the  Métro.  X.  RurEes  or  tur  Game  Jim  is  worried  about  Mark,  and  a  zebra  helps  unite  a  mentally  ill  soldier  and  his  family.  XI.  Kong  Gladys  is  insulted  by  a  man  in  a  movie  theatre.  XII.  Frac  or  LirE  How  to  make  rhythm  instruments.  XIII.  Tur  Open  Door  Gladys  decides  that  she  has  had  enough  of  ranch  life.  XIV.  Crcapas  When  his  brother  joins  the  Air  Force  instead  of  helping  out  on  the  ranch,  Jim  tears  up  his  hat.  XV.  In  tur  Sor  A  tragic  accident  teaches  a  ruthless  businessman  the  meaning  of  tolerance.  Members  of  the  team  are  interviewed.  XVI  Tur  Turninc  or  tur  Tipe  Sandy  Koufax  and  Sen.  Hubert  H.  Humphrey  discuss  ambergris.  XVIL  Tur  HuntEDo  Jim  is  seen  at  work  at  his  roadside  fruit  stand.  Gladys  wonders  whether  to  go  to  a  movie.  XVIII.  A  Letrer  rrom  Mark  496e646961's  caste  system  is  gradually  be-  coming  a  part  of  the  past.  XIX.  Grapys  Gladys,  back  in  [REDACTED],  can't  un-  derstand  why  Mark  is  keepingher  at  arm's  length.  She  decides  to  go  to  a  movie.  XX.  Porarors  A  group  of  young  men  from  diverse  backgrounds  is  molded  into  an  efficient  fighting  unit.  XXI.  anp  REALITY  Sir  Kenneth  Clark  ignores  Gladys  in  the  movie.  XXII.  Scorce  TaPpE  A  young  widow  attempts  to  rebuild  her  life.  XXIII.  Reunion  Jim  joins  the  Air  Force  in  order  to  find  his  brother  and  make  him  come  back  to  the  ranch.  Prof.  Leonard  R.  Rand  uses  examples  from  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  [REDACTED].  XXIV.  Tur  SEa  [REDACTED]  wears  her  trenchcoat  to  bed.  XXV.Turn  Out  tur  Licet  Eternal  joy  is  discussed  by  represent-  atives  of  the  world's  great  religions.  29  Vinnie  Fitch's  orchestra,  dancers  Marlo  and  Caucus,  the  Pedal  Twins.  XXVI.  Tuer  Har  Killer  Vince  Bigly  finds  Jim's  torn-  up  hat.  He  wonders  what  to  do  with  it.  XXVII.  Tur  WravyErs  When  Mark  Foreman's  factory  burns  down,  he  is  accused  of  setting  fire  to  the  insurance  money.  Members  of  the  team  are  interviewed.  XXVIII.  Rasies  A  well-meaning  friend  tries  to  stop  a  brilliant  engineer  from  destroying  his  plumb  bob.  XXIX.  AcamsT  THE  Gram  Anthropologist  Max  Winter  hurls  Ituri  pygmies  into  avolcano.  Members  of  the  team  are  interviewed.  XXX.  Lavomimc  Mary  Dr.  William  Muff  explains  the  im-  portance  of  exploiting  the  unusual  child.  XXXI.  Get  Up  anp  Live!  Al  McLane  and  Joe  Brooks,  using  light  tackle,  land  a  giant  slalom.  XXXII.  in  tus  Arric  On  a  field  trip,  Timmy  finds  a  rock.  XXXIII.  In  [REDACTED]  Gladys  watches  life  passing  from  a  sidewalk  café,  and  chats  with  M.  Dulac  about  his  broccoli.  XXXIV.  Cumoren  or  Bark  Jim  is  missing,  and  Mark  thinks  that  he  is  inventing  glass.  City  Health  Com-  missioner  George  James  answers  view-  ers'  questions.  XXXV.  Darpauus  The  sheriff's  brother  is  lost  in  the  Métro.Gladys  and  Jim  discuss  amber-  gris  futures  with  Sen.  Hubert  H.  Hum-  phrey.  XXXVI.  UniorEr  tur  REo-WHuIrE-  Aanbp-BLUE  Students  dangle  wool  in  front  of  rab-  bits.  XXXVII.  Tur  Seasons  In  defiance  of  her  wealthy  family,  Gladys  decides  to  learn  about  electricity.  XXXVIII.  Peart  Swing  A  Marine  with  amnesia  goes  out  to  search  for  his  identity.  XXXIX.  Tur  Pavyorr  Dr.  George  Muff  traces  the  history  of  thread.  XL.  ScramBurp  Ecos  Driving  to  Mark's  new  job  as  a  teacher  in  an  exclusive  boys'school,  Mark  and  Gladys  make  a  big  mistake.  Vince  Bigly  plays  &quot;The  Star-Spangled  Banner.&quot;