 b"\xe2\x80\x9cIT\xe2\x80\x99S  a  sure  thing,&quot;  remarked  Mr.  Edom  ofthe  Abbey  Antique  Gal-  leries,  &quot;that  if  you  see  something  you've  never  seen  before  and  can't  account  for,  within  a  couple  of  weeks  you'll  run  across  a  match  to  it.&quot;  Mr.  Edom's  assistant  knew  that  whenever  Mr.  Edom  made  one  of  these  general  remarks  something  par-  ticular  would  follow  on  it.  Now  he  saw  Mr.  Edom  delve  in  the  pocket  of  his  overcoat  and  bring  out  a  crumpled  blue-  and-yellow  paper  bag.  Inside  the  bag  was  a  small  object  wrapped  in  tissue  paper.  While  Mr.  Edom  was  unwrap-  ping  it,  the  assistant  looked  at  the  bag.  It  was  labelled  &quot;Ye  Abbey  Gifte  Shoppe.&quot;  &quot;It  caught  my  eye  in  passing,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom.  The  assistant  had  raised  his  eyebrows  at  the  bag,  so  these  words  took  him  down  a  peg,  as  they  were  meant  to  do-though  kindly,  since  Mr.  Edom  thought  well  of  him,  and  was  bringing  him  on.  The  tissue  paper  was  removed,  the  object  placed  on  Mr.  Edom's  desk.  It  was  a  very  small  object,  about  two  inches  high;  but  the  minuteness  of  the  modelling  made  it  seem  larger.  It  was  a  representation  in  enamelled  bronze  of  a  cat  engaged  in  reading.  It  was  sitting  upright  on  a  stool;  its  tail  curved  down  behind,  one  of  its  hind  legs  was  crossed  over  the  other,  its  front  paws  supported  a  folio  on  its  knees.  Except  for  the  tail,  it  partook  of  the  human;  but  it  was  also  perfectly  feline-an  ordinary  short-  coated  tabby  cat,  but  in  an  unusual  at-  titude  and  unusually  em-  ployed.  &quot;What  do  you  think  of  it?&quot;  &quot;It  looks  French  to  me,&quot;  said  the  assistant.  &quot;Nice  bit  of  modelling,  too.  Very  life-  like.&quot;  &quot;Just  what  struck  me  about  it.  And  look  at  the  finish!  That  wasn't  done  yesterday.&quot;  He  put  it  away  in  a  draw-  er.  The  assistant  remarked  that  a  pair  of  such  cats-cats  being  so  much  in  demand-  would  be  quite  a  useful  item.  Pairs,  replied  Mr.  Edom,  continuing  the  process  oftak-  ing  down  while  yet  bringing  on,  were  all  right  for  the  present;  but  he  wondered  where  the  chimney-ornament  side  of  the  trade  would  be  when  the  Coal  Board  and  modern  architects  had  be-  tween  them  done  away  with  chimney  shelves.  &quot;There'll  still  be  window  sills,&quot;  said  the  assistant,  who,  being  young  and  progressive,  felt  he  must  stand  up  for  modern  developments.  &quot;Window  sills!  I  pin  no  hopes  on  window  sills.  They  bring  out  the  worst.  I  can  remember  the  days  when  it  was  Dying  Gladiators.  Now  it's  aquariums.&quot;  A  fortnight  went  by,  a  month  went  by,  but  the  metal  cat  remained  un-  mated.  In  the  end,  it  was  taken  from  the  drawer  and  added  to  the  Miscel-  laneous  Table,  which  needed  new  blood.  Later  that  day,  Mrs.  Otter  came  in,  looking,  as  the  assistant  had  privately  commented  when  he  first  met  her,  like  a  tinker  out  sleepwalking;  and  said  she  wanted  a  christening  present  for  a  baby  who  wasn't  going  to  be  christened.  &quot;But  that's  no  reason  why  the  poor  little  creature  should  be  robbed  of  its  due-unless,  of  course,  it  changes  its  mind  when  it's  grown  up  and  is  dragged  through  a  tank  backward.  Agnosties  children  constantly  do.&quot;  Here  Mrs.  Otter  picked  up  a  shagreen  case  con-  taining  a  set  of  fleams,  gazed  at  it  ar-  dently,  and  murmured,  &quot;Phlebotomy!&quot;  Mr.  Edom  hovered  nearer,  like  a  guardian  angel  ready  to  intervene.  Sales  are  all  very  well,  but  he  felt  a  personal  responsibility  for  Mrs.  Otter.  [REDACTED]  Otter,  the  daughter  of  an  adoring  Ru-  ral  Dean,  the  relict  of  two  successively  adoring  theologians,  was  one  of  those  women  who  are  sent  into  the  world  to  turn  the  heads  of  aging  men.  Her  foot  was  light,  her  hair  was  like  honeysuckle in  its  uncontrollable  windings,  her  eyes  and  her  conversation  were  wild.  Aging  men  gazed  into  her  eyes  and  listened  spellbound  by  the  unsurmisability  of  what  she  would  say  next.  She  gave  them  back  their  youth,  with  its  wide  horizons,  where  nothing  was  impossible.  'The  young,  including  her  two  sons  by  her  first  husband,  found  no  charm  in  her  at  all.  As  for  Mr.  Edom,  he  trembled  when-  ever  she  came  into  the  shop.  Not  that  she  broke  things;  her  gestures  might  sweep  a  Leeds  basket  to  the  brink,  her  hair  on  several  occasions  had  become  entangled  in  chandeliers,  but  she  never  broke  anything.  It  was  his  self-con-  fidence  she  threatened:  he  never  knew  when  she  would  not  persuade  him  out  of  his  better  judgment  and  possibly  turn  out  to  be  right-for  more  than  once  she  had  been  illuminatedly  right;  also  he  never  knew  when  he  mightn't  forget  himself  and  address  her  as  his  darling.  Now  he  saw  with  relief  that  she  had  abandoned  the  set  of  fleams  and  moved  on  to  the  silver  table.  A  spoon  is  always  appropriate.  ...  She  had  fastened  on  the  very  worst  of  the  lot,  a  spoon  so  worn  and  battered  that  he  would  have  hesitated  to  display  it  if  its  two  initials  had  not  been  so  nobly  engraved.  &quot;It's  in  very  poor  condition,  Mrs.  Otter.&quot;  &quot;But  the  initials,  Mr.  Edom!  'C.B.&quot;  [REDACTED]  Bront\xc3\xa9's  own  tooth  marks,  for  all  we  know.&quot;  She  peered  with  her  shortsighted  eyes,  like  an  animal  look-  ing  out  of  a  thicket.  &quot;I  can't  read  the  hallmark.&quot;  &quot;Sheffield.  1817.&quot;  &quot;'There!  I  was  right.  Mr.  Edom,  I  must  have  this  spoon.  Which  reminds  me,  if  you  ever  see  a  watercolor  of  a  cormorant  looking  down  on  a  drowned  woman  ...  Oh!&quot;  Mrs.  Otter  had  moved  on  to  the  Miscel-  laneous  Table,  and  was  clasping  the  cat.  &quot;A  Grand-  ville!  I'm  positive  it's  a  Grandville.  Did  you  ever  read  'Minette  et  B\xc3\xa9bE?  With  an  angel  cat  in  a  long  white  nightgown  struggling  for  poor  Minette's  soul  on  a  rooftop?  Just  like  Canon  Bowles-you  know  he  broke  his  leg?  So  sad  for  him.  Stop!  Wait  a  minute!  I've  got  a  feeling-  Yes,  it's  coming  back  to  me.  Mr.  Edom,  I've  met  two  of  this  cat's  relations.&quot;  Mr.  Edom  cancelled  his  dream  of  giving  her  the  cat.  &quot;But  where?  I  know  I  " b"was  talking  about  tapioca  at  the  time,  but  tapioca  might  be  anywhere-un-  less  it  was  old  Mrs.  Cartwright's  St.  Bernard.  Sheepshead  and  milk  pudding.  Can  you  imagine  a  more  horrible  menu?  Or  it  might  just  have  been  husbands,  harking  back  to  their  school  days-and  flushed  with  rhubarb  all  through  Lent.  Tapioca.  Tapioca.&quot;  Meanwhile  old  Major  Barnard  had  come  in  and  sat  down  with  a  grunt  on  a  coffin  stool.  With  his  stick  between  his  knees  and  his  hand  clasping  the  handle  and  his  chin  resting  on  his  hands,  he  sat  listening  to  Mrs.  Otter.  &quot;Tapioca.  I  shall  run  it  down  in  time.  It's  just  a  question  of  keeping  my  mind  on  it.  That's  a  very  pretty  work-  table.  Hullo,  Henry.  Have  you  been  here  long?  You  don't  look  very  com-  fortable.&quot;  &quot;I've  been  here  for  exactly  four  min-  utes,  [REDACTED],  and  I  am  very  com-  fortable,  thank  you.  I  saw  you  through  the  window,  and  came  in  to  ask  you  to  have  lunch  with  me.&quot;  &quot;I'd  be  delighted.  When?  Now,  instantly?&quot;  &quot;As  instantly  as  you  can  manage.  You're  obviously  dying  of  malnutrition,  as  usual.  Mr.  Edom,  may  I  see  that  spoon  Mrs.  Otter  was  looking  at?  I  want  to  give  it  to  her.  It  might  remind  her  to  eat.  Hmm!  Been  a  bit  knocked  about.&quot;  &quot;Look  at  the  initials,  Henry!  Char-  lotte  Bronte's  own  spoon!&quot;  &quot;Yours  now,  dear.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Henry,  I'll  adore  it,  I'll  use  it  every  day  of  my  life.  It's  exactly  the  right  size  for  eating  essence  of  chicken  out  of  the  pot  with.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Not  tapioca?&quot;  Tapioca?  Why  tapioca?  Oh,  yes!  That  reminds  me.  Henry,  have  I  ever  talked  to  you  about  tapioca?&quot;  &quot;I  expect  so.  One  thing  leads  to  an-  other.  By  the  way,  Grandville  did  illus-  trations  and  things,  didn't  he?  And  caricatures.  I've  never  heard  he  went  in  for  statuary.&quot;  They  left  together,  Major  Barnard  carrying  Mrs.  Otter's  gloves,  her  hand-  bag,  herbooks  from  the  public  library,  and  both  her  shopping  baskets,  Mrs.  Otter  clasping  her  spoon  and  talking  about  the  Colossus  of  Rhodes.  Mr.  Edom  put  the  cat  back  in  his  drawer,  handling  it  with  reverence,  and  went  out  for  his  lunch.  The  assistant,  who  would  lunch  later,  began  consulting  Mr.  Edom's  books  of  reference.  It  was  an  extraordinary  thing  about  these  country  fogeys:  they  knew  nothing,  hadn't  the  smallest  idea  of  values,  at-  tributed  all  their  family  portraits  to  Joshua  Reynolds  and  took  them  to  be restored  by  the  caretaker  at  the  auction  rooms,  who  did  it  in  his  spare  time  with  acleaner  called  Roll  It  Off;  and  yet,  all  ofa  sudden,  they'd  be  at  home  with  some  shibboleth  like  this  Granville,  who  wasn't  even  in  a  book  of  reference,  thought  the  assistant,  seeking  for  him  without  his  &quot;d.&quot;  Come  to  that,  he  won-  dered  how  much  Mr.  Edom  knew  about  Granville.  The  spurt  of  rebellion  was  quelled  that  same  afternoon,  because  a  dealer,  buying  extensively,  he  said,  for  ship-  ments  to  Latin  [REDACTED],  walked  in,  and  to  see  Mr.  Edom  putting  him  down  and  keeping  him  there  was  something  Old  Masterly.  &quot;He  didn't  get  much  out  of  you.&quot;  Mr.  Edom  straightened  his  waist,  coat.  &quot;The  sort  of  person  I  used  to  keep  horse  brasses  for  in  my  younger  days,&quot;  he  observed;  and,  having  en-  tered  in  the  Sales  on  Commission  ledger,  &quot;Turquoise  Rabbit  Pin,  Mrs.  O.  \xc2\xa39.  5.  0,&quot;  made  out  the  check,  less  his  ten-per-cent  commission,  with  a  sense  that  he  had  not  done  too  badly  for  her.  When  she  came  in  two  mornings  later,  her  look  of  excitement  went  rath-  er  beyond  what  \xc2\xa38.  6.  6.  would  war-  rant,  and  her  voice,  when  she  thanked  him,  was  inattentively  enthusiastic.  Could  she  have  been  expecting  more  for  that  shocking  trinket?  &quot;And  now,  Mr.  Edom  .  .  .&quot;  Words  had  actually  failed  her.  Portentously,  she  disembarrassed  herself  of  a  por-  tentously  large  parcel.  &quot;Yes,  Mrs.  Otter?&quot;  &quot;Don't  look  so  alarmed,  I  wouldn't  give  you  a  walrus.  It's  your  two  cats.  I  said  I'd  find  them,  and  I  have  found  them,  though  tapioca  was  a  completely  false  scent.  You  know  that  place  that  sells  thatched  tea  cozies-the  Abbey  Present  Shop.&quot;  &quot;Gifte  Shoppe.&quot;  &quot;That's  it.  Gift.  Horrid  word;  one  might  as  well  say  'donation.'  Well,  I  was  going  past  it  and  thinking  of  that  unchristened  baby  Itold  you  about,  when  suddenly  I  saw  its  silver  lining.  If  it's  to  grow  up  a  little  heathen,  then  give  it  an  idol.  And  as  it  will  be  an  English  heathen,  the  idol  must  be  furry.  And  I  went  in,  and  found  a  superb  idol,  a  washable  brown  walrus  with  " b"harmless  woollen  eyes.  And  while  it  was  being  done  up  I  was  looking  with  thankfulness  at  all  the  things  I  needn't  buy,  and  there,  among  some  bead  neck-  laces,  were  your  two  missing  cats!  But  they're  rather  expensive.  I  didn't  know  if  I  should  spend  so  much  of  your  mon-  ey  without  asking  you.  They  want  three  guineas  for  them.&quot;  Mr.  Edom's  face  hardened  into  professional  glassiness.  He  had  bought  the  first  cat  for  seven  shillings  and  six-  pence.  &quot;You  were  quite  right,  Mrs.  Otter.  Three  guineas  would  be  going  too  far.&quot;  &quot;Poor  pets!&quot;  &quot;But  I'll  see  what  can  be  done.  I  don't  intend  to  miss  them.&quot;  &quot;But  if  someone  else  gets  there  first?  We  should  never  know  their  fate.&quot;  Her  voice  was  suddenlymaudlin,  and  tears  ran  down  her  cheeks.  &quot;I  will  send  Mr.  Collins  immedi-  ately.&quot;  A  second  inquiry  within  an  hour  was  impolitic,  but  he  could  not  bear  to  see  Mrs.  Otter  so  upset.  Taking  the  as-  sistant  to  one  side,  he  told  him  to  go  up  to  twenty-five  shillings  if  necessary.  Mr.  Collins  had  long  legs,  and  a  steady  head  for  bargaining.  By  the  time  Mrs.  Otter  had  dried  her  tears  and  drunk  a  little  brandy  out  of  the  flask  she  carried  in  case  of  street  accidents,  he  was  back.  Thrice  unobtrusively  whisking  the  thumb  and  fingers  of  his  left  hand,  he  set  down  the  two  cats  on  a  small  table.  Mr.  Edom  produced  the  first  cat  from  his  drawer.  It  was  a  solemn  moment;  even  the  assistant  felt  it  to  be  so,  and  exclaimed,  &quot;Reunited!&quot;  Mr.  Edom  noticed  a  momentary  demur  cross  Mrs.  Otter's  beaming  face,  as  a  wisp  of  cloud  crosses  the  moon.  Shortsighted  people  have  their  own  kind  of  acute  vision.  Perhaps  she  had  seen  some  flaw  in  one  of  the  cats,  some  discrepancy  of  measurement  or  han-  dling?  He  saw  nothing  wrong  himself.  They  seemed  all  of  the  same  litter,  all  studiously  inclined.  One  of  the  new-  comers  was  bending  over  a  small  table,  and  in  its  right  paw  was  a  quill  of  really  remarkable  workmanship;  the  other  was  staring  at  some  sort  of  square-ruled  drawing  board.  All  three  sat  on  identi-  cal  stools  with  their  tails  curling  down  behind.  They  made  a  nice  little  group,  were  in  excellent  condition,  and  quite  unusual.  Already  he  foresaw  the  cus-  tomer  for  them:  young  Mrs.  Haring-  ton,  who,  as  he  had  reason  to  know,  was  prone  to  cats.  &quot;I'm  sure  we  shall  find  the  others,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Otter.  &quot;'The  others?&quot;  &quot;'The  other  four:  Music,  Astronomy, Geometry,  and  Rhetoric.  Here's  Gram-  mar,  you  see,  reading  the  classic  au-  thors;  that's  Arithmetic;  and  this  one  is  Logic,  writing  a  treatise  to  account  for  everything,  like  Thomas  Aquinas.  That's  why  Grandville  has  given  him  such  a  smug  ecclesiastical  expression.&quot;  Perceiving  that  they  were  silent,  she  added,  witha  slight  blush-for  she  did  not  like  to  appear  better  informed  than  they-&quot;The  Seven  Liberal  Arts,  you  know.  In  the  Middle  Ages.  To  know  them  was  a  liberal  education.&quot;  &quot;Four  more,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom  pen-  sively.  &quot;Yes,  but  we're  practically  sure  of  another  pair-the  two  I  saw  when  I  was  talking  about  tapioca.  I  have  never  seen  anything  to  suggest  tapioca  in  that  Present  Shop,  so  it  can't  havebeen  there.&quot;  &quot;You  might  have  seen  them  in  the  window  while  you  were  talking  about  tapioca  outside,&quot;  said  the  assistant.  Mr.  Edom  frowned.  He  disliked  the  insinu-     Huones  ation  that  Mrs.  Otter  had  only  one  subject  of  conversation.  It  was  uncivil;  and  it  was  demonstrably  untrue.  For  example,  she  could  talk  about  these  seven  liberal  arts,  which  was  more  than  the  assistant  could.  After  she  had  gone,  Mr.  Edom  realized  that  he  had  been  uncivil  him-  self,  for  he  had  forgotten  to  thank  her  for  finding  Logic  and  Arithmetic,  who,  with  Grammar,  were  now  in  the  drawer.  Why  Grammar  and  Arithme-  tic,  and,  for  that  matter,  Geometry,  should  be  arts  was  beyond  him.  Why  the  artist  should  have  chosen  to  repre-  sent  them  as  cats  was  a  bit  beyond  him,  too,  though  less  so,  since  artists  can  be  led  into  the  most  peculiar  expedients;  he  had  seen  the  Nine  Muses  as  mon-  keys-a  parallel  case-in  a  sale,  and  had  bid  for  them,  though  Thompson  of  Cheltenham  got  them  in  the  end.  Seven  Bronze  Liberal  Cats  would  not  be  so  commanding  an  item  as  Nine  Porcelain  Monkey  Muses,  perhaps,  but  they  would  be  a  set-if  the  other  four  could  be  traced,  that  is.  Mrs.  Otter  scemed  pretty  confident  about  it,  and  she  might  well  be  right.  In  a  country  neighborhood,  sets  which  have  been  dis-  persed  still  tend  to  remain  within  hail-  " b"ing  distance;  one  daughter  takes  the  cups  and  saucers,  another  the  cake  plates,  a  third,  forthe  sake  of  senti-  ment,  the  teapot,  even  though  it's  cracked.  And  such  small  objects  as  these  cats,  though  jolted  apart,  might  not  have  rolled  very  far.  He  inclined  to  back  Mrs.  Otter.  In  the  past,  she  had  several  times  been  surprisingly  right,  if  at  other  times  surprisingly  wrong.  Her  judgments  were  those  of  the  heart  rather  than  those  of  the  head,  but  there  is  a  lot  to  be  said  for  the  heart.  The  heart  has  rejected  the  fake  before  the  expert  has  had  time  to  say  &quot;Bob's  your  uncle;&quot;  and  Luck,  that  aus-  tere  goddess,  won't  do  a  thing  for  you  ifall  you've  got  to  go  by  is  head.  For  all  that,  and  feeling  that  he  would  like  to  have  some  hand  in  it  himself,  he  reinforced  Mrs.  Otter's  powers  by  sending  a  small  advertisement  to  a  trade  paper,  inquiring  for  &quot;Bronze  Enamelled  Figurine  Cats,  height,  two  inches.&quot;  Mention  of  Rhetoric,  etc.,  would  not  be  discreet.  However  discreetly  one  frames  an  advertisement,  one  cannot  prevent  its  beingread  by  enterprising  blockheads,  and  Mr.  Edom  received  offers  of  cats  in  all  sizes  and  substances-cats  as  Christy  Minstrels  with  banjos,  china  kittens  dressed  as  choirboys,  Oxford  and  Cam-  bridge  cats  competing  in  the  boat  race,  several  signed  drawings  by  Louis  Wain,  and  a  stuffed  polecat,  &quot;very  lifelike  with  all  faults.&quot;  Meanwhile,  he  saw  nothing  of  Mrs.  Otter;  he  supposed  she  was  carrying  on  the  pursuit.  But  when  she  next  visited  the  shop,  she  had  nothing  to  report;  she  had  been  having  influenza,  and  felt  so  miserable  that  she  had  come  to  buy  something,  just  in  order  to  cheer  herself  up.  There  were  other  customers  in  the  shop,  strangers  to  the  place,  and  Mr.  Edom  found  himself  wishing  Mrs.  Otter  would  go  away,  for  they  looked  at  her  as  if  they  had  never  seen  a  lady  the  worse  for  influenza  before.  Though  she  continued  to  come  in  from  time  to  time,  it  was  most  often  to  bring  something  or  other  she  wanted  him  to  sell  on  commission;  presently,  she  brought  things  she  wanted  him  to  buy  outright-among  these,  the  spoon  with  the  initials  C.B.  on  it.  He  could  not  refuse  to  buy  it;  and  because  the  transaction  shocked  him,  paid  her  more  for  it  than  he  had  charged  Major  Bar-  nard,  saying  that  the  price  of  silver  had  gone  up.  It  was  not  like  Mrs.  Otter  to  do  such  a  thing.  He  began  to  feel  a  kind  of  resentment  against  her;  resent-  ment  because  she  did  not  visit  him  so  often,  resentment  because  he  felt  im-  poverished  that  she  did  not,  or  did  not  seem  present  even  when  she  did.  As  for  the  cats,  he  thrust  them  into  the  back  of  the  drawer,  saying  to  himself  that  she  had  lost  interest  in  them,  and  so  had  he.  Major  Barnard,  taking  his  daily  walks  down  Abbey  Street,  came  in  as  of  old  whenever  he  saw  her  through  the  window.  Sometimes  he  made  a  pretext  of  buying,  at  other  times  he  sat  patiently  on  the  coffin  stool,  waiting  till  he  could  take  her  off  for  a  meal  or  see  her  home.  It  was  early  in  May,  the  lilacs  were  just  in  bloom,  and  children  coming  back  from  country  walks  dropped  but-  tercups  on  the  pavement,  when  Mr.  Edom  saw  Major  Barnard  halt  his  ven-  erable  Bentley  in  front  of  the  Galleries  and  walk  in,  leaning  on  his  stick  and  with  a  carnation  in  his  buttonhole.  &quot;Mrs.  Otter's  meeting  me  here,  at  quarter  past  four,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Do  you  mind  if  I  wait  inside?  I  don't  expect  she'll  be  long.&quot;  And  he  sat  down  on  the  coffin  stool.  &quot;I  ought  to  pay  you  rent  for  this,&quot;  he  said,  smiling.  Customers  came  and  went.  The  beautiful  weather  had  brought  sight-  seers  to  the  town;  not  many  bought,  but  all  were  polite  and  praising  be-  cause  they  were  happy.  The  hands  of  the  clock  went  on  to  four-forty-five.     Major  Barnard  said,  &quot;Do  you  mind  if  I  smoke  a  cigar?&quot;  Mr.  Edom  brought  him  an  ashtray.  &quot;Perhaps  Mrs.  Otter  mistook  the  time,&quot;  he  suggested.  &quot;Just  what  I  was  thinking.  She  must  have  thought  I  said  quarter  past  five.  Maybe  I  didsay  quarter  past  five.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  taking  her  out  in  the  car?  It's  a  lovely  day  for  it.  Everything  will  be  looking  its  best.&quot;  &quot;She's  coming  with  me  to  Salisbury.  There's  some  sort  of  concert  in  the  Cathedral.  It  begins  at  six,  and  then  we  are  to  have  dinner  and  drive  back  in  the  cool.  But  now  we  shall  miss  a  good  part  of  the  concert.  Silly  of  me  to  tell  her  the  wrong  time.  Silly  time  to  have  a  con-  cert,  come  to  that.&quot;  As  the  hands  of  the  clock  moved  to-  ward  five-fifteen,  Mr.  Edom  tried  not  to  count  the  minutes  till  Mrs.  Otter  should  appear.  At  twenty  past  five  a  woman  who  was  not  Mrs.  Otter  came  in.  She  looked  at  everything,  attentively  and  in  silence.  Finally,  she  began  to  bargain  for  an  ikon.  Mr.  Edom  had  no  patience  with  bargainers,  but  now  he  nursed  her  along  and  dandled  her  hopes,  for  she  filled  a  gap-till  the  moment  came  when  she  changed  her  mind  and  bought  a  mug  from  the  Miscellaneous  Table  and  went  away.  Only  then  did  he  allow  himself  to  look  at  Major  Barnard,  and  at  the  clock.  He  signed  to  the  assistant  to  leave  by  the  side  door  and  pretended  to  busy  him-  " b"self  in  replacing  the  ikon.  The  clocks  in  the  shop,  the  clocks  in  the  town  began  striking  six;  the  Abbey  bell  surmounted  them  with  its  leisurely  strokes;  the  street  filled  with  people  going  home  from  work.  Major  Barnard  raised  his  head  and  stared  at  Mr.  Edom  as  though  he  had  appeared  on  the  margin  of  a  dream.  &quot;I'm  afraid  Mrs.  Otter  must  have  mistaken  the  day,  Major  Barnard.  She  would  be  so  concerned.&quot;  &quot;Something's  happened  to  her.  'There's  been  an  accident.&quot;  'The  old  man  hoisted  himself  to  his  feet  and  be-  gan  to  walk  up  and  down,  clenching  and  unclenching  his  rheumatic  hands.  &quot;But  what  canone  do?  What  can  one  do?&quot;  he  muttered.  &quot;If  you  think  Mrs.  Otter  may  have  met  with  some  accident,  sir,  why  not  ring  up  the  police  station?  They  would  know.  And  it  would  set  your  mind  at  rest.&quot;  Compelling  Major  Barnard  into  his  private  room,  he  dialled  the  number,  put  the  receiver  into  his  shaking  hand,  and  shut  the  door  on  him.  It  wasn't  long  before  he  was  back.  &quot;No  bad  news,  I  hope,&quot;  said  Mr.  Edom,  reading  calamity  on  his  face.  &quot;She  was  found  unconscious  in  Fore  Street,  early  this  afternoon.  She's  been  taken  to  hospital-to  Pomeroy  House.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  poor  lady!&quot;  Pomeroy  House  was  where  they  took  the  mental  cases,  the  attempted  suicides,  the  alcoholics.  Major  Barnard  stiffened  himself.  &quot;'The  truth  is-&quot;  Staring  fixedly  at  Mr.  Edom,  he  had  recognized  in  Mr.  Edom's  face  the  expression  of  one  en-  gaged  in  putting  two  and  two  to-  gether-a  mercantile  process.  &quot;'The  truth  is,  I  must  be  going,&quot;  hecon-  cluded,  and  walked  out.  Once  set  in  motion,  two  and  two  rush  into  four.  By  the  next  day  all  those  acquainted  with  Mrs.  Otter  knew  that  they  had  known  for  a  long  time  that  she  was  drinking  too  much;  and  most  of  them-for  even  those  she  did  not  charm  felt  she  injured  no  one  and  was  part  of  the  place-were  sorry.  Natural-  ly,  the  quality  of  the  sorrow  varied;  varied  from  the  desolation  felt  by  Ma-  jor  Barnard,  who  had  lost  the  delight  of  his  heart,  to  the  pure,  fellowly  com-  passion  felt  by  Old  Grog,  who  had  lost  the  dear,  sweet  creature  who  never  grudged  him  a  couple  of  shillings  to-  ward  a  drink.  Mr.  Edom's  narrower      heart  was  wrung  by  a  more  compli-  cated  laceration.  His  grief  was  an  an-  guish  to  him  because  the  cause  of  it  was  so  painful  and  so  shocking.  He  would  have  gone  to  the  stake,  he  averred,  rather  than  think  such  a  thing  of  that  dear  lady.  His  prim  uprightness  flinched  from  the  picture  of  a  drunken  lady  lying  in  a  stupor  outside  the  closing  doors  of  the  Acorn  Inn,  and  carried  away  by  the  police  on  a  stretcher;  it  was  a  rape  on  his  respectability.  Six  months  later,  when  he  heard  that  Mrs.  Otter  would  shortly  be  dis-  charged  from  Pomeroy  House  as  cured,  his  second  thought  (for  the  first  had  been  an  explosive  realization  how  much  he  had  missed  her)  was  that  he  didn't  know  how  he  would  be  able  to  look  her  in  the  face.  T  was  not  her  face.  His  memory  repudiated  it,  and  she  exclaimed,  &quot;Why,  Mr.  Edom,  I  don't  believe  you  recognize  me!&quot;  They  had  returned  her  fat,  healthy,  well  preserved,  and  un-  accountably  lowered  in  class  Her  clothes  were  spruce,  she  was  made  up,  her  hair  had  been  waved  and  tinted.  The  charm  was  gone.  Even  her  voice  was  coarsened,  and  though  she  talked  as  much  as  ever,  it  was  of  herself  she  talked  and  of  the  psychiatrist.  Mr.  Edom  was  too  stricken  to  ease  his  mind  by  finding  a  formula.  The  assistant,  who  had  recently  come  on  a  lot  in  judg-  ment  and  connoisseurship  and  who  was  not  personally  affected  by  the  disappear-  ance  of  a  charm  he  had  never  felt,  was  at  no  loss  for  a  summary:  Mrs.  Otter  looked  as  if  she  had  been  given  a  thorough  treatment  with  Roll  It  Off.  He  kept  this  opinion  unspoken;  but  later  he  asserted  himself.  It  was  stock-  taking  time,  and  they  were  going  through  the  unlisted  articles  in  Mr.  Edom's  drawer.  &quot;Three  bronze  enam-  elled  cats,&quot;  he  called  out.  &quot;How  do  I  enter  these?&quot;  &quot;Incomplete  set,&quot;  replied  Mr.  Edom.  The  assistant  placed  them  in  a  row.  &quot;You  know,  I'm  not  altogether  so  sure  about  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  you  should  take  another  look  at  them.&quot;  Mr.  Edom  approached,  gloomily,  and  did  so.  &quot;It's  my  belief,&quot;  went  on  the  as-  sistant,  &quot;that  they  are  a  set  just  as  they  are.  Look.  Reading,  Writing,  and  Arithmetic.&quot;  For  a  moment,  Mr.  Edom  was  con-  vulsed.  He  seemed  about  to  take  hold  of  the  assistant  and  strangle  him.  Then,  recovering  himself,  he  looked  at  the  three  figures-soberly,  professionally--  and  said,  &quot;I  daresay  you're  right.&quot; "