 b"THE  wines  of  Pomerol,&quot;  my  host  was  saying,  &quot;are  on  the  whole  less  severe,  a  little  softer,  surely,  than  those  from  the  other  side  of  the  Garonne?&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Oh,  yes,&quot;  one  of  my  fellow-  guests  agreed.  &quot;Though  they  lack,  of  course,  the  finesse  of  some  of  the  finest  growths  of  the  M\xc3\xa9doc.  I  recall  a  Mar-  gaux,  a  Chateau  Rausan-S\xc3\xa9gla,  actually,  which  had  undertones  .  .  .&quot;  The  talk  rolled  over  me.  Full-bodied,  robust,  gentle,  big,  bold,  light,  fruity,  and  generous,  of  full  bouquet,  crisp,  del-  icate,  round,  well  balanced-the  words  glanced  and  glimmered  in  the  mellow  light,  bounced  like  bubbles  from  mouth  to  mouth  off  the  satin  mahogany.  I  un-  twined  my  fingers  from  the  stem  of  my  glass,  thinking  them  knobbly  and  not  of  the  first  growth.  What  exactly  did  &quot;well  balanced&quot;  imply?  Would  it  be  possible,  taking  advantage  of  a  brief  nostalgic  hush  produced  by  the  mention  of  Trockenbeerenauslese,  to  say  with  conviction  that  the  wines  of  the  Rhein-  gau  lacked  equilibrium?  It  would  not.  The  conversation  had  already  moved  on.  &quot;Was  it  not  a  character  in  'The  Egoist  who  remarked  that  '43616e616461is  the  Homeric  hexameter,  Burgundy  the  Pindaric  dithyramb'?&quot;  Soft  candlelight,  cul-  tured  minds,  and  the  champagne,  the  Louis  Roederer-nay,  the  very  Chateau  d'  Yquem-of  conversation,  weaving  connoisseurship  in  wine  and  literature  together  into  a  gently  glowing  tapestry  ...  who  could  ask  for  more?  I  sought  refuge  in  a  private  train  of  thought  started  by  the  name  of  Homer.  Homer's  heroes  in-  dulged  in  a  goblet  from  time  to  time,  but  I  could  not  recall  that  theyever  talked  much  about  the  experience.  As  for  Pindar,  the  only  verdict  of  his  that  came  readily  to  mind  was  his  notorious  &quot;Water  is  best.&quot;  Was  it  possible  that  the  Greeks,  in  addition  to  their  other  manifold  and  widely  acknowledged  ex-  cellencies,  were  not  wine  bores?  Not  even  in  the  &quot;Symposium&quot;  ...  &quot;'There  is  an  afterthought,&quot;  the  man  on  my  left  was  saying,  &quot;a  kind  of  de-  layed  piquancy  that  you  don't  get  in  the  wines  of  the  Loire.&quot;  &quot;Sancerre  but  not  sens  reproche?&quot;  my  host  inquired,  with  a  downward  glance  at  his  fingernails.     No  Greek  would  ever  have  permit-  ted  himself  to  mistake  balderdash  for  civilized  conversation.  The  Greeks  were  fond  of  wine  and  took  a  great  deal  of  trouble  over  its  manufacture.  I  know  this  because  not  long  ago,  when  look-  ing  up  the  Vestal  Virgins  (in  Dr.  William  Smith's  &quot;A  Dictionary  of  Greek  and  Roman  Antiquities&quot;  ),  I  got  sidetracked  on  &quot;Vinum&quot;  and  emerged,  twenty  minutes  later,  with  enough  con-  fused  information  to  paralyze  any  din-  ner  table  for  seven  courses.  The  Greeks  liked  direct  talk  no  less  than  they  liked  wine.  They  esteemed  the  Chian  above  all  others,  and  said  so.  Next  to  it  they  inclined  to  rank  Thasian  and  Lesbian,  though  some  maintained  that  the  Clazo-  menian  knew  no  peer.  But  they  never,  to  the  best  of  my  knowledge,  declared  that  Thasian  was  robust  and  full-  bodied  but  scarcely  so  generous  as  some  of  the  finer  Samian  erus.  They  hadn't  the  culture  for  it.  &quot;The  processes  used  in  winemaking  in  the  Aegean  in  classical  times,&quot;  I  said  at  large-but  they  were  talking  about  a  1955  Clos  Vougeot,  and  when  a  momentary  lull  occurred  I  did  not  care  to  begin  again.  There  are  some  open-  ingsthat  cannot  be  repeated,  except  after  a  longish  interval,  without  sounding  dan-  gerously  second-hand.  The  processes  were  interesting,  all  the  same.  The  Greeks,  I  recalled,  used  to  fer-  ment  the  juices  of  the  grape  in  large  earthen-  ware  jars,  or  pithoi,  which  had  been  well  lined  with  pitch,  sprin-  kled  with  sea  water,  fu-  migated  with  aromatic  plants,  and  then  half  buried  in  the  ground.  When  fer-  mentation  subsided  and  the  worst  of  the  scum  had  bubbled  out,  they  rubbed  the  upper  part  of  the  interior  of  the  pithoi  with  defrutum,  saffron,  old  pitch,  mastic,  and  fir  cones,  sealed  her  up,  and  stood  clear.  About  once  a  month  thereafter,  they  took  the  lid  off  again  to  air  and  cool  the  contents,  and  to  add  one  or  more  of  the  many  conditioners,  emollients,  flavorers,  bouquet-lenders,  and  stimulants  known  to  the  ancients,  of  which  only  turpentine  and-  &quot;As  noble  a  Gruaud-Larose,&quot;  I  heard  dimly  through  the  curtain  of  my  private  thoughts,  &quot;as  was  ever  bottled  at  the  Chateau.&quot;  -resin,  burnt  marble,  spices,  raisins,  goat's  milk,  and  parched  salt  came  off-  " b"hand  to  memory.  They  would  also  plunge  blazing  pine  torches  or  red-hot  irons  into  the  savory  brew,  but  these  were  withdrawn  again  before  the  lid,  well  rubbed  with  fir  cones,  was  replaced  for  another  month.  This  process  went  on  until  the  wine  was  ready  to  be  drawn  off  into  the  amphora,  a  handy  nine-gallon  affair  (now  found  mainly  at  the  bottom  of  the  Mediterranean),  which  was  stoppered  with  a  plug  of  wood  smeared  with  pitch  or  gypsum.  Here  it  remained  to  mature,  undisturbed  except  perhaps  for  the  ad-  dition  of  a  little  more  resin,  acedar  cone  or  two,  a  drop  of  unguent,  to  suit  the  individual  purchaser.  Nothing  now  re-  mained  to  be  done  before  drinking  but  to  clarify  the  wine  with  the  yolk  of  pigeons'  eggs,  strain  it  into  a  bowl,  mix  with  water,  honey,  and  perhaps  cheese  (Circe's  recipe)  to  taste,  and  invite  the  guests  to  try  a  sip.  After  that,  an  old  Greek  might  have  been  forgiven,  I  think,  if  he  had  made  rather  a  business  of  sniffing  the  aroma  and  rolling  a  ten-  tative  sip  around  the  tongue  before  pronouncing  it-  &quot;A  piquant  wine,&quot;  somebody  was  asserting  over  my  bowed  head,  &quot;of  ex-  ceptionally  full  body.&quot;  All  right,  then-before  pronouncing  it  a  piquant  wine  of  exceptionally  full  body.  But  the  old  Greeks  did  nothing  of  the  kind.  Even  in  the  &quot;Symposium&quot;  (which  is,  I  suppose,  the  locus  classicus  for  wine  and  talk  in  ancient  Athens),  there  is  practically  no  comment  on  the  refreshments  provided  by  host  Aga-  thon,  beyond  the  fact  that  they  gave  Aristophanes  hiccups  and  that  only  Socrates  was  still  awake  at  dawn.  This  is  especially  praiseworthy  because,  being  blessed  with  wines  so  various  and  en-  terprising  in  their  ingredients,  the  an-  cients  could  have  discussed  them  in  di-  rect  and  factual  terms.  They  had  no  need  to  take  refuge  in  the  kind  of  nebulous  driftwood  about  rotundity  that  my  host  was  now  casting  upon  the  waters.  They  could  have  talked  sense  about  wine:  ArisropEMUs:  I  like  this,  Agathon.  A  nice  tarry  wine,  thoroughly  well  balanced  at  the  pithos  stage.  Not  too  much  turps.  AcatHon:  You  don't  think  a  pinch  more  burnt  marble  would  have-  Eryximacuus:  No,  no.  It  must  be  sparingly  added,  even  when  it  comes  from  a  quarry  of  the  first  grain-as,  of  course,  has  this.  Pentelican,  wouldn't  you  say?  It  burns  more  evenly  than  the  Parian.  Pauwsantas:  I  don't  pretend  to  be  an  expert,  but  surely  this  must  be  ...     " b"No,  don't  tell  me;  the  parched  salt  had  me  foxed  fora  moment.  Yes.  It's  a  Thasian!  The  wines  of  Thasos  are  on  the  whole  less-how  shall  I  put  it?  They  taste  less  of  red-hot  irons  than  those  from  Lesbos  or  Clazomenae.  But  what  does  Socrates  say?  Come,  Soc-  rates.  Tell  us  what  you  think  of  Aga-  thon's  wine.  Socrates:  Very  well,  Pausanias.  Do  you  agree  that  goat's  milk  is  a  Good?  Pausantas:  Certainly  it  is.  SocraTEs:  Is  it,  then,  the  goator  the  milk  that  attains  to  excellence  in  the  highest  degree?  Pausantas:  You  are  trying  to  trip  me  up,  Socrates.  My  answer  is  that  both  are  of  equal  merit.  SocratEs:  Do  the  makers  of  wine,  then,  put  the  goat  into  the  pithos,  or  is  it  not  rather  the  milk  only  that-  ArcIBIADEs:  Spare  us  the  Method  tonight,  Socrates.  Just  answer  the  ques-  tion.  Socrates:  Alcibiades  has  forgotten  that,  as  men  put  pigeons'  eggs  into  wine  to  clarify  it,  so  in  discourse-  AcatHon:  I  am  sorry  if  they  were  not  quite  fresh,  Socrates.  At  this  point  in  my  private  reflections,  a  silence  fell  on  the  company,  and  I  took  advantage  of  it  to  remark  that  theprocesses  used  in  winemaking  in  the  Aegean  in  classical  times  were  not  without  interest.  They  used  to  ferment  the  must,  I  explained,  in  large  earthen,  ware  jars,  or  pithoi,  which  had  been  previously  well  lined  with  pitch,  sprin-  kled  with  sea  water,  and  fumigated  with  aromatic  plants.  When  fermenta-  tion  subsided  and  the  worst  of  the  scum  had  bubbled  out-  But  connoisseurs  are  not  interest-  ed  in  facts.  &quot;Shall  we?&quot;  my  host  sug-  gested,  in  a  voice  as  crisp  as  a  Biide-  sheimer  Scharlachberg  Steinkautweg  Riesling  '59.  "