 b"Howard  LEssER  knew  that  if  he  H  finally  reached  his  father's  bed-  side  it  would  be  like  this,  a  scene  by  David,  full  of  tricky  light  and  ardent  gestures:  His  father,  always  an  admirer  of  views,  would  tell  him  to  look  out  of  the  window-he  is  not  actually  a  patient,  you  see,  but  a  guide  disguised,  Howard  not  his  visitor  but  on  a  tour  of  the  hos-  pital.  Below,  Howard  would  see  a  dull  portion  of  43616e616461Park  at  nightfall.  &quot;I  used  to  take  you  sledding  right  there  when  you  were  a  good  deal  younger,&quot;  his  father  would  say.  His  mother  would  be  boiling  water  for  tea  with  an  immer-  sion  heater;  she  had  taken  the  crosstown  bus,  tangerines  and  tea  bags  in  her  pock-  etbook.  &quot;Do  you  remember?&quot;  she  would  ask.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Howard  would  say,  but  he  wouldn't,  for  it  was  other  slopes.  Why  must  his  father  endow  the  scenery  with  an  imaginary  benevolence?  He  had  not,  after  all,  forsaken  him.  He  taught  him  to  sit  up  at  the  table,  to  use  the  dictionary  freely,  to  save  the  useful  cardboards  that  came  with  laundered  shirts,  to  dry  his  palm  on  his  trousers  pocket  before  shaking  hands;  and,  if  you  had  nothing  complimentary  to  say  about  your  fellow-man,  to  keep  silent.  Howard  saw  himself  pretending  to  be  enjoying  the  view;  he  would  be  searching  for  his  father's  reflection  in  the  dark  panes.  He  would  find  him  smil-  ing  at  the  recollection  of  Sundays  in  the  snow.  Then,  as  Howard  watches,  the  smile  fades,  and  is  replaced  by  a  look  of  horror.  He  has  discovered  that  he  was  mistaken,  that  he  had  never  taken  his  son  belly-whopping  on  that  hill,  and  that  his  son  is  aware  of  this  Howard  observes  him  looking  quickly  at  his  wife  tosee  if  she  has  noticed  his  change  of  expression,  but  Mother  is  intently  dip-  ping  the  tea  bag  in  the  cup,  as  though  sounding  a  familiar  but  changeful  pas-  sage,.  Howard  desperately  seeks  the  image  of  his  father's  eyes.  For  a  mo-  ment,  meeting,  their  eyes  seem  to  share  a  covert  glance  of  love  and  admission.  &quot;Dad  likes  his  tea  weak,&quot;  his  mother  says,  addressing  the  ignorant  and  in-  visible  stranger  who  always  attends  her.  Howard  recoils  at  his  mother's  perform-  ance.  Then  he  will  see,  as  she  turns  toward  the  window,  that  his  mother  is  weeping.  So  they  all  know  his  father  is  dying.  &quot;Do  you  know,&quot;  his  father  would  say,  averting  his  face  as  he  squeezes  the  lemon  into  his  tea,  &quot;that  last  night,  while  I  was  chatting  on  the  telephone  with  Sidney,  I  heard  very  faintly,  in  the  back-  ground,  as  it  were,  a  fellow  presiding  aver  what  must  have  been  a  bingo  game.  I  could  distinctly  hear  him  saying,  'B-  fourteen.  One-four.  G-fifty.  Five-O.  And  so  forth.  The  damnedest  thing.  'Does  anyone  have  a  winner?&quot;  he  kept  repeating.  How  do  you  imagine  that  happened?&quot;  &quot;Sid  was  up  to  see  Dad  just  before  you  came,&quot;  his  mother  says  hopefully.  &quot;He's  been  one  of  Dad's  most  loyal  friends  and  greatest  admirers  down  through  the  years.&quot;  &quot;Sidney's  a  grand  [REDACTED];  his  father  says.  &quot;Not  only  is  he  a  first-rate  dentist  but  he  is  a  wonderful  human  being.&quot;  He  speaks  as  though  he  is  composing  an  epitaph.  &quot;Sidney  heard  him,  too.&quot;  &quot;Heard  who?&quot;  his  mother  asks,  smiling  at  the  unseen  stranger,  attempt-  ing,  by  the  force  of  her  smile,  its  over-  whelming  sweetness,  to  modify  or  en-  feeble  her  husband's  inevitable  reply.  That  fellow  on  the  phone  I  was  tell-  ing  you  about  only  a  moment  ago,  Mother.  I  called  Sidney's  attention  to  him  and  we  listened  together.  A  great  many  numbers  were  called,  but  as  far  as  we  could  tell,  Sidney  and  I,  no  win-  ner  came  forth.&quot;  N  Howard  Lesser,  completing  the  first  stage  of  his  reluctant  pilgrim-  age  to  his  father's  private  room,  walked  through  the  Los  Angeles  International  Airport,  the  willed  illusion  of  a  partial  face-closer,  larger,  and  more  rapt  than  any  lover's-loomed  over  the  apparition  of  his  own.  He  beheld  a  noble  and  ven-  erable  ear,  irradiated  by  sunlight,  and  beyond  it-almost,  in  fact,  through  it,  as  if  it  were  stained  glass-the  memory  of  an  idle  lady,  now,  of  course,  dead,  at  a  window  high  in  a  residential  hotel  on  the  other  side  of  [REDACTED],  watching  him,  year  in  and  year  out,  having  his  teeth  filled.  By  rights,  the  hovering  face  should  have  been  the  dentist's,  Uncle  Sidney's,  but  it  was  his  father's,its  intimacy  without  purpose  and  oppres-  sive-hadn't  he  long  ago  ceased  trying  to  solve  the  mystery  of  their  estrange-  ment?  Lesser  had  confused  Sidney  with  his  father  before.  He  recalled,  feeling  as  abashed  as  he  had  at  the  time,  thank-  ing  Uncle  Sidney  (rushing  over  to  him!)  for  the  gift  of  a  dog-his  father  had  always  told  him  to  express  grati-  tude.  He  had  come  home  and  found  the  unaccountable  dog,  his  father,  and  Sidney  in  the  living  room.  Had  he  em-  braced  his  knees?  Although  he  didn't  know  why  Sidney  would  give  him  a  dog,  he  knew  that  his  father  wouldn't.  He  was  mistaken.  Sidney  had  laughed,  but,  Lesser  realized  now,  Ae  had  given  Sidney  a  gift  he  had  no  right  to  bestow,  and  by  that  donation  had  irremediably  altered,  to  one  degree  or  another,  the  relationship  between  his  father  and  his  father's  best-or  was  it  oldest?  -friend.  Why  had  he  thought  Sidney  had  done  it?  Sidney  was  his  dentist,  a  partial  face,  a  classmate  of  his  father's  at  Townsend  Harris  Hall,  and  since  he  almost  always  paid  his  sudden  visits  after  Howard  had  gone  to  bed,  Howard  would  only  learn  by  overhearing  his  parents  in  the  morn-  ing  that  Sidney  had  been  there  at  all,  had  stayed  a  short  while,  restless  and  embarrassed,  and  abruptly  left-and  that  there  was,  evermore,  trouble  in  Sid-  ney's  home.  However,  Lesser  reflected,  if  he  had  been  unfair  to  Sidney,  Sidney,  by  his  ambiguous  presence  in  the  living  room  that  afternoon,  had  unjustly  trapped  him,  too,  so  they  were  equally  blameworthy,  and  his  father  became  their  joint  and  haphazard  victim.  Even  before  that  episode,  at  Swan  Lake  Manor,  his  aunt's  boarding  house  in  the  mountains  (the  house  and  the  locust  trees  that  obscured  it  all  burned  to  the  ground  now;  the  insurance  mon-  ey  swindled  from  his  aunt;  she,  too,  gone  now  herself),  he  had  raced  to  his  mother  across  its  lawns,  then  drifted  with  the  locusts'  sweet  blossoms,  shout-  ing,  &quot;Daddy's  coming!  Daddy's  com-  [REDACTED];  &quot;Daddy's  coming?&quot;  she  said,  be-  wildered.  Howard  had  admitted  that  although  there  was  a  father  arriving  from  the  city,  it  wasn't  his  but  a  play-  mate's,  a  father  he  had  not  previously  met  and  now  no  longer  remembered  meeting,  and  he  burned,  then  and  now,  with  shame.  Will  their  positions  be  reversed,  Les-  ser  wondered;  will  it  be,  instead,  the  aimless  son  who  will  be  looming  above  the  father,  over  the  soundless  mouth  of  the  ear's  dark,  involved  tunnel?  On  the  concourse,  Lesser  unenthusi-  astically  followed  the  arrows  to  Bag-  gage  Claim,  his  raincoat  draped  over  his  " b"left  shoulder  like  the  blanket  roll  of  a  private  soldier  in  some  obscure  and  in-  decisive  war  a  century  or  two  ago,  but  his  passage  was  not  regulated  or  em-  boldened  by  a  regimental  band  or  even  the  faint  measure  of  a  fife  and  drum;  he  was  accompanied  by  a  string  orchestra,  whose  recorded  and  lamentable  strains  flowed  from  loudspeakers,  and  he  was  conspicuously  out  of  step.  Indeed,  his  progress  was  unevenand  regretful,  as  it  had  been  when  he  had  returned  to  his  play  through  the  fallen  blossoms,  aghostly  woodpecker  drumming  on  what  was  soon  to  become  the  black  ghost  of  a  locust,  or  when  he  had  turned  hopelessly  in  the  living  room  (Sidney  laughing  )  toward  his  father.  As  he  went,  Lesser  sang  nearly  under  his  breath,  and  to  whatever  tune  was  being  broadcast,  &quot;1109  Klingenstein.  1109  Klingenstein.&quot;  The  night  before,  in  [REDACTED],  he  had  received  a  cable:  &quot;DAD  UNDERGOING  EXPLORATORY  SURGERY.  ROOM  1109  KLINGENSTEIN,  MOUNT  SINAI.  PLEASE  COME  HOME.  LOVE,  MOTHER.&quot;  He  had  dutifully  got  the  8:15  a.m.  jet  and  was  in  Los  Angeles  at  3:15.  Lesser  had  once  made  the  crossing,  in  the  opposite  direction,  in  a  small  boat.  Looking  down  at  the  unre-  markable  sea,  he  had  tried  to  recall  that  tedious  voyage,  but,  he  discovered,  it  could  only  be  reconstructed  in  dreams,  where  whales  broached  and  bitterly  sighed  in  the  dark.  What  did  his  father  dream  about?  Lesser  imagined  his  dreams  were  peopled  with  allegorical  figures  in  cheap  robes  who  made  speeches.  How  many  times,  Lesser  thought,  have  I  gone  through  this  airport,  theold  one  before  this  one  was  built,  other  dim  and  reverberant  terminals,  with  the  same  hesitant,  apprehensive  tread,  re-  tracing,  as  upon  those  two  upheaving afternoons  long  ago,  my  heedless,  de-  parting  steps?  The  goal  was  always  Baggage  Claim,  where  he  would  await,  without  anticipation,  the  arrival  of  his  familiar  and  unwelcome  belongings.  The  ad-  justable  razor  (grown  quite  green  now  )  set  forever,  and  arbitrarily,  at  &quot;7;&quot;  his  worn  and  favorite  tie,  which  dis-  played  a  pattern  of  naked  boys  holding  hands  (for  Gemini);  his  bathing  suit,  faded  by  more  than  seven  seas;  &quot;'The  Case  of  the  Shapely  Shadow&quot;  and  &quot;The  Case  of  the  Runaway  Corpse&quot;:  If  they  were  missing,  could  he  begin  all  over  again,  run  yet  another  time  across  distant  lawns  where  spiders  hung-swum  upon  the  airl-below  the  locusts  (but  what  would  he  cry  now?)  and,  without  error,  go  to  his  own  father  in  a  lost  liv-  ing  room?  After  he  claimed  his  suitcases,  Lesser  rented  a  car  and  drove  out  Sepulveda.  If  he  took  the  next  plane  to  New  York,  he  would  arrive  when  visiting  hours  were  over.  He  would  leave  later  on  that  night  and  get  there  in  the  morning.  Lesser  knew  a  girl  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  which  was  his  destination.  He  had  met  her  in  the  Outer  Islands,after  having  got  a  glimpse  of  her  thighs  when  she  danced  on  a  piano  bar.  She  had  told  him  that  she  once  tried  to  swim  the  Molokai  Channel  in  a  sharkproof  cage;  she  had  snapshots  in  an  album  showing  her  setting  forth  at  night,  on  account  of  the  tides,  the  shore  operatically  lit  by  torches.  There  were  also  several  pic-  tures  in  her  collection  of  a  large,  power-  ful  man  standing  on  his  head  on  a  beach,  sipping  Lucky  Lager  through  a  straw.  The  girl  said  he  played  defensive  end  for  the  Rams.  &quot;Hal!  Ha!&quot;  was  indis-  criminately  written,  in  her  hand,  in  white  ink  beneath  the  photographs  of  the  football  player  and  of  her  unsuccess-  ful  and  gallant  swim.  She  lived,  when  Lesser  last  saw  her-  which  was  more  than  a  year  ago-on  one  of  the  steep  side  streets  by  the  [REDACTED].  There  was  no  sign  of  life  when  he  rang  her  doorbell.  He  tried  looking  in  the  windows,  but  the  blinds  were  drawn.  Lesser  walked  down  to  the  beach.  There  was  a  cold  wind,  it  was  almost  dark,  and  he  could  smell  the  oil  in  the  sea.  Beyond  the  breakers,  a  few  boys  wearing  rubber  suits  sat  patiently  on  their  surfboards  in  the  incantatory  light  like  saboteurs.  After  a  while,  Lesser  climbed  back  to  her  apartment,  but  again  his  ring  was  unanswered.  He  remembered  a  high  white  chest  that  stood  inside  her  door.  It  was  ornament-  edwith  many  carvings-Chinese  scenes.  Lesser  regretted  that  he  had  never  troubled  to  find  out  exactly  what  all  the  " b"tiny  Chinamen  were  up  to.  Her  bedroom  was  full  of  stuffed  ani-  mals  from  night-club  checkrooms:  kittens  and  pandas,  rabbits,  tigers,  and  giraffes  mute  and  peaceable,  as  though  they  had  sense-  lessly  taken  refuge  there  from  a  fire  ora  flood.  He  had  once  made  love  to  her  on  her  bathroom  sink,  staring  reflectively  past  her  ear  at  his  por-  trait  in  the  medicine-  cabinet  mirror.  Suppose  she  was  hid-  ing  in  there  with  one  (or  more)  sulky  Mexi-  can  bantamweights-or  perhaps  she  had  moved,  her  animals  packed  in  cartons  from  Food  Gi-  ant.  Lesser  tried  to  pic-  ture  his  father  and  a  strange  woman,  with  a  nasty  bellhop  carrying  a  suitcase  full  of  bricks  or  lawhooks  and  a  fifth  of  Four  Roses,  slowly  ascending  in  an  open-  work  elevator  to  a  room  with  a  view  of  the  Pali-  sades,  and  succeeded  only  novelistically.  He  thought  of  writing  the  girl  a  note,  but  what  could  he  say?  Lesser  had  been  wholly  impelled  and  made  impatient  by  lust  and  curiosity  with  how  many  others,  in  what  differ-  ent  rooms?  (in  [REDACTED],  while  inexplica-  ble  monkeys  swung  in  the  tangerine  trees;  in  Cannes,  as  a  dance  band  played  beneath  a  balcony;  in  the  Tuamo-  tus!  )-and  all  that  came  to  mind  to  leave  her  was  &quot;Ha!  Hal!&quot;  When,  at  last,  Lesser  called  the  air-  lines,  he  found  to  his  relief  that  hecould  not  get  a  seatuntil  morning.  He  called  Mount  Sinai  and  asked  for  1109  Kling-  enstein.  The  operator  told  him  that  the  room  did  not  answer  and  asked  him  whom  he  was  trying  to  reach.  Lesser  hung  up  before  she  had  completed  her  question.  Would  there  be  a  record  of  his  call?  He  drove  to  a  motel  near  the  air-  port  and,  lying  along  one  edge  of  a  triple  bed  as  though  it  was  also  occupied  by  restless  strangers  who  might  suddenly  and  violently  awake,  he  read  a  mystery  until  he  fell  asleep.  He  dreamed  he  was  choking  his  un-  conceived  child.  The  boy  was  about  eight  and  wore  Lesser's  old  wool  hel-  met.  Outside  the  narrow  window,  the  sky  was  red  and  full  of  snow.   The  paper  bag  that  contained  his  son's  school  lunch  lay  on  the  floor  where  he  had  dropped  it  in  his  fright.  Lesser  awoke,  terrified  and  ashamed.  &quot;God  protect  me!&quot;  he  cried  in  the  splendid  room.  He  searched  for  the  girl  in  the  phone  book,  but  she  wasn't  there;  she  had  van-  ished,  like  her  contemporaries  from  the  directories  of  other  cities  He  called  Mount  Sinai.  The  operator  told  him  that  it  was  too  late  to  ring  the  private  rooms.  Combing  his  hair,  Lesser  left  the  room.  He  stood  at  the  top  of  the  flight  of  three  stairs  that  led  -down  into  the  motel's  cocktail  lounge.  It  was  excep-  tionally  dark,  and  empty  save  for  three  men  sitting  at  the  oval  bar,  each  sepa-  rated  from  the  other  by  two  vacant  stools,  as  though  some  kind  of  compli-  cated  party  game  were  about  to  begin.  In  the  center  of  the  bar,  a  middle-aged  lady  was  playing  a  small  electric  organ.  The  three  men  were  singing  an  intermi-  nable  and  vastly  sentimental  college  song,  an  alma-mater,  and  they  knew  all  the  words.  The  years,  Lesser  gathered,  were  shining  and  no  one  was  pining  for  days  gone  by,  for  all  their  tomorrows  would  be  free  of  sorrows  and  sighs.  The  organist  was  accompanying  them  with  difficulty,  as  if  she,  as  well  as  Lesser,  had  never  heard  the  song  before.  At  one  point  in  their  recital,  the  three  men  got  off  their  stools  and  stood,  their  hands  over  their  hearts.  Every  so  often,  the  great  whine  of  a  departing  jet  pene-  trated  the  cocktail  lounge  and  threatened  to  drown  them  out,  but  they  raised  their  voices,  which  were  surprisingly  true,  so  that  by  the  end  of  the  song  they  were  singing  with  incredible  force.  Lesser  saw  that  they  were  older  than  he  had  realized-really  three  old  men  whose  collars  were  too  large,  whose  lapels  were  too  wide,  fettered  together  by  an  ancient  and  common  chain  like  galley  slaves,  andon  the  verge  of  tears.  He  had  a  feeling  that  the  college  in  the  song  was  no  longer  in  existence,  that  it  had  been  torn  down  for  a  shopping  center  ora  new  subdivision.  As  he  stood  on  the  brink  of  the  cock-  tail  lounge,  Lesser  thought  he  had  never  seen  a  more  dismal  picture,  and  he  turned  away  in  embarrassment.  Had  his  father  ever  awakened  like  these  old  men,  like  himself,  in  a  motel  room,  un-  able  to  bear  or  fathom  the  impositions  of  " b" loss,  deferment,  and  surrender,  and  been  forced  to  give  a  mawkish  recital  in  the  dark?  No:  his  father  had  exemplified,  freely  declaimed  the  natural  virtues-  [REDACTED]!  Justice!  Temperance!  For-  titude!  Lesser  had  a  fleeting  vision  of  the  girl,  sick  and  floundering  at  night  in  the  Molokai  Channel,  unable  to  keep  up  with  her  towed  cage.  R  ,  perhaps,  Lesser  thought,  it  would  be  like  this:  The  Young  Men's  Lyceum  would  have  held  their  final  meeting  at  his  father's  bedside.  The  Lyceum  was  (it  is!  )  a  social  and  literary  club  of  which  his  father  is  one  of  the  founding  members.  \xc2\xabTwice  a  year  we  would  have  a  func-  tion,&quot;  his  father  would  tell  him  from  the  high,  mechanical  bed  that  is  not  unlike  a  throne.  &quot;In  the  winter  we  would  hire  a  hall  for  our  annual  banquet.  One  of  the  boys  was  artistically  inclined  and  he  did  up  the  programs  for  our  affairs;  each  one  was  different,  drawn  by  hand,  and  generally  comical  in  theme.  In  the  summer,  we  would  charter  a  motor  launch  and  cruise  upon  Long  Island  Sound.  I  suppose  we  would  takea  picnic  lunch  along  and  go  ashore  at  one  place  or  another  where  it  was  agreeable.  Now,  of  course,  a  good  many  of  the  boys  have  got  older;  most  of  them  have  died  off.  That's  what  happens  with  the  passage  of  time.  It  all  deteriorates.  Who  is  left?  Bob  Wein-  er,  Fritzie,  Leo,  fellow  named  Harry  Dubrow,  an  attorney  in  [REDACTED].  He's  come  up  once  or  twice  for  funerals.&quot;  &quot;The  Young  Men's  Lyceum  was  of  veryhigh  purpose,&quot;  his  mother  says.  &quot;We  used  to  have  some  lovely  times,&quot;  his  father  says.  &quot;'You  should  get  together  with  the  boys  more  often.&quot;  &quot;Ah,&quot;  his  father  says  disparagingly.  &quot;'You  knowwe  haven't  met  for  years  now.  These  days,  we  only  come  across  one  another  at  funerals.  That's  the  way  these  things  happen.  You  drift  apart.  You  drift  apart.  Unfailingly.&quot;  &quot;Fritzie  came  all  the  way  in  from  Leonia,  New  Jersey,&quot;  his  mother  says.  &quot;You  asked  the  boys  to  come  up,  didn't  you,  Mother?&quot;  &quot;Why  ..  .&quot;  His  mother  would  turn  to  the  anxious  stranger  as  her  witness.  &quot;Why  ...&quot;  &quot;I  remember  one  of  the  banquet  pro-  grams  this  fellow  with  the  artistic  bent  rendered  in  496e646961  ink.  I  can't  seem  to  recall  his  name.  It  depicted  me  bereft,     a  Valentine's  heart  ...  For  one  reason  or  another,  Bernard  once  showed  me,  in  one  of  his  medical  texts,  an  illustration  of  a  human  heart.  Bernard  was  a  won-  derful  physician  and  a  lovely  guy.  After  he  died,  Mother  and  I  had  charge  of  his  effects.  He  hadno  family  and,  curious,  ly,  lacked  what  must  have  been  the  courage  to  get  married,  althoughhe  was  engaged  upon  numerous  occasions,  gen-  erally  to  waitresses  in  the  dingy  neigh-  borhood  restaurants  where  he  would  eat  alone,  ordering  identical  meals.  When  I  would  talk  to  Bernard  on  the  tele-  phone  in  those  days,  there  would  be  increas-  ingly  frequent  periods  of  silence  on  his  part.  I  finally  learned  that  he  had  had  one  or  two  mild  strokes,  which  he  had  concealed,  and  that  one  of  them  had  cost  him  some  of  the  power  in  his  right  hand,  and  the  receiver  would  fall  into  his  lap,  although  he  kept  on  talking.  I  suppose  it  was  a  matter  of  pride,  or  disbelief.  At  any  rate,  there  were,  of  course,  all  of  his  diplomas  on  his  walls.  What  do  you  do  with  diplomas?  Can  you  throw  them  away?  The  human  heart  that  Bernard  showed  me,  years  ago  now,  appeared  to  me  to  resemble  some  great  barnacled  creature  that  dwells,  or  reposes,  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea,  feebly  contracting,  and  untrust-  worthy.  I  suppose  our  common  salin-  ity-the  body's,  that  is-and  the  per-  plexing  sea's  .  ..  This  Valentine's  heart  was  conventionally  cracked,  and  sus-  pended  in  one  of  those  gentle,  cumulous  balloons.  ...  I'm  lost,  Mother.&quot;  &quot;Heart.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  get  you.&quot;  &quot;The  annual  banquet  of  the  Young  Men's  Lyceum.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  heart.  In  this  balloon  he  had  lettered-he  was  a  damned  fine  letterer,  too  ...It  was  akind  of  rebus.  The  broken  heart  represented  a  failure  in  love,  thus  I  was  less  her.  Get  it?  Less-  her.  Lesser.  Our  name!  I  said  they  were  on  the  comical  side.&quot;  &quot;I  thought  you'd  like  to  see  them  all  again,&quot;  his  mother  would  say.  &quot;It  was  a  very  decent  gesture.  His  name  was  Perry  Julian!&quot;  &quot;Whose  was?&quot;  &quot;The  boy  who  didthe  programs  for  our  banquets.  He  had  really  an  extraor-  dinary  talent.  He  got  ajob  with  the  New  York  43616e616461System,  which  was  quite  unusual  for  a  Jewish  boy  at  that  time.  He  eventually  went  to  work  in  their  [REDACTED]  office.  We  lost  track  of  him  over  the  years.  That's  sort  of  a  pun,  isn't  it?  I  heard  he  died  several  years  back.  He  never  did  a  blessed  thing  with  his  wonderful  talent,  Perry  Julian,  which  is  a  shame,  a  damned  shame,  for  of  all  the  boys  in  the  Young  Men's  Lyceum  he  had  the  greatest  chance  to  make  a  name  in  the  world.&quot;  ECAUSE  Lesser  had  failed  to  reach  him,  it  didn't  mean  at  all  that  his  father  had  died.  Perhaps,  like  explorers  who  had  sought  the  fountain  of  youth  and  found  only  embowered  and  sul-  phurous  but  otherwise  undistinguished  springs,  the  surgeons,  expecting  in  ef-  fect  the  dismal  swamp,  had  discovered  once  again  the  broad  and  unexception-  ally  silty  loops  or  meanders  of  age;  or  the  operator  had  rung  the  wrong  room;  or  the  cable  had  been  garbled;  or  it  was  intended  for  someone  else.  He  would  call  again,  but  it  was  too  early,  and,  be-  sides,  it  would  be  his  turn  now  to  be  the  object  of  his  father's  hopeful  and  extrav-  agant  praise.  &quot;You  know,  Howard,&quot;  he  was  bound  to  say,  &quot;Mother  and  I  are  both  very  proud  of  you  and  all  that  you've  done.  You  are  a  credit  to  us.&quot;  Lesser  longed  not  to  hear  those  sen-  tences  from  the  lips  of  this  virtuous  and  coherent  man. "