 b"The  Consumer  Bulletin  is  much  used  in  courses  i  n  consumer  problems,  consumer  educa  ti  on,  economics,  home  economics,  business,  civics,  marketing,  sociology,  life  sc  ience,  p  hysics  ,  and  other  business  and  sci  ence  education  subjects.  Its  findings  pro-  vide  valuable  material  to  be  used  in  teaching  young  consumers  in  high  s  chool  and  col-  leg  e  how  to  become  intelligent  and  informed  buyers  of  goods  and  services,  and  to  le  arn  to  look  for  sound  qualities  in  the  products  they  buy.-Consumer  Bulletin  Annual.  \xe2\x80\x98  a  JILL  Candace  come  away  with  me-find  integrity,  wholeness  on  the  Australian  archipelago?  Too  early  to  say.  Meanwhile,  the  affair  of  the  Swedish  tennis  balls  continues  to  plague  us.  I  ventured  into  the  basement,  found  Candace  there  on  her  knees  be-  fore  the  washing  machine,  which  was  filled  with  Swedish  tennis  balls.  Candace  in  tears.  I  took  her  hand.  &quot;What?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Oh,  Charles,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;is  every-  thing  galley-west?  Everything?&quot;  I  gave  it  some  thought.  Then:  &quot;You've  been  reading  the  Annmual.&quot;  She  looked  away.  &quot;It  said  these  Swedish  tennis  balls  could  be  washed  in  an  automatic  washer  and  dried  in  an  automatic  dryer  without  del-  eterious  effects.  I  had  to  try,  didn't  I?&quot;  Washing  machine  has  ineffective  lint  filter,  which  I  discovered  last  week  when  it  strangled  on  new  rug,  50  per  cent  Dacron  and  50  per  cent  iron  py-  rites,  purchased  by  Candace  without  first  looking  it  up  in  the  imposing,  authorita-  tive,  annual  Annual.  Candace,  however,  is  blameless,  racked  as  she  is  by  irritation  of  the  lungs  from  overuse  of  aerosol  hair  sprays  (page  15),  unpleasant  drying  and  crusting  of  the  lips  from  overuse  of  indelible  lipsticks  (page  17).  &quot;I  do  not  blame  you,  Candace,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  blame  your  inadequate  education  at  that  expen-  sive  Eastern  girls'  school.&quot;  Iron  pyrites  particles  pulsing  in  her  golden  hair.  &quot;Everything  is  galley-west,&quot;  she  whis-  pered.  &quot;Had  I  not  yoyoed  away  my  time  in  school  reading  Herodotus,  Saint-  Simon,  Rilke,  and  Owen  Wister,  seek-  ing  answers  to  the  mystery  of  personality  and  the  riddle  of  history,  I  would  not  have  failed  to  become  an  intelligent  and  informed  buyer  of  goods  and  services.  It's  as  simple  as  that.&quot;  And  in  her  eyes  there  was  a  misty  light,  produced  by  defective  contact  lenses  (page  50).  Whirled  my  darling  away  to  an  ice-cream  parlor,  where  we  con-  sumed  quantities  of  elephant's-foot  ice  (crammed  though  it  was  with  pernicious  food  additives).  But  the  problem  re-  mains.  We  are  adrift  in  a  tense  and  joyless  world  that  is  falling  apart  at  an  accelerated  rate.  No  way  to  arrest  the  disintegration  that  menaces  from  every  side,  Consider  the  case  of  the  bedside  clock.  &quot;Check  for  loudness  of  tick,&quot;  the  Annual  said.  I  checked.  It  ticked.  Tick  seemed  decorous.  Once  installed  in  home,  it  boomed  like  a  B-58.  Candace  watching  it  nervously,  neighbors  com-  plaining,  calls  from  the  police.  And  on  page  143  the  electric  can  opener  that  sows  tiny  bits  of  metal  inside  can  being  opened;  on  page  178  the  sewing  ma-  chine  whose  upper  thread  tension  is  not  indexed,  whose  cams  do  not  produce  the  pictured  patterns.  Yes,  they  are  mine.  'There  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  the  eyes  are  permanently  harmed  by  watch-  ing  TV,&quot;  the  Ammual  says.  (But  what  of  insult  to  the  brain?  )  &quot;A  good  toaster  should  give  successive  slices  of  uniformly  browned  toast  for  many  years.&quot;  But  my  toaster  brought  to  our  union  nothing  but  a  significant  shock  hazard.  And  it  is  true  that  I  purchased  the  nylon  sheets  that  slide  off  the  bed  (page  211),  the  low-  quality  ink  that  dries  too  slowly  (page  57)-my  letters  bleed  through  their  envelopes  like  the  hands  of  a  medieval  saint.  &quot;It  is  estimated  that  some  5  million  girls  exist  mainly  on  snacks  of  soft  drinks,  'French  fries,  pizzas,  candy,  hamburgers,  and  waffles.&quot;  Who  are  these  girls?  What  are  their  names?  What  do  they  look  like?  How  does  one  get  in  touch  with  them?  And  how  do  they  behave,  fuelled  as  they  are  with  &quot;foods  of  attractive  appearance  but  dubious  quality&quot;?  Candace  wishes  to  send  them  lean  beef  in  a  plain  brown  wrapper.  The  freezer  is  full  of  it.  (But then,  the  freezer  itself  is  not  trust-  worthy;  itis  given  to  broiling  the  meat  in  fits  of  temperature.)  Let  me  confess  it,  I  am  tense,  for  this  [REDACTED]  is  not  the  one  I  knew.  I  am  going  away,  to  the  Australian  archipelago,  for  although  my  pipe  tobacco  is  of  the  type  judged  lowest  in  lead  and  arsenic  in  1958  by  the  [REDACTED]  Agricultural  Experi-  ment  Station,  there  is  cyanide  in  my  silver  cleaner,  and  my  oranges  have  been  rouged  with  coal-tar  dyes.  My  steam  iron  spurts  hot  water  from  the  fill  hole,  my  food-waste  disposer  doesn't  chew  corn  husks  properly,  my  phono-  graph  is  giddy  with  wow,  flutter,  rum-  ble,  and  hum.  Acid  water  slowly  eats  away  the  glossy  finish  on  my  sinks,  lava-  tories,  tubs,  and  what  it  does  to  the  owner  himself  no  man  can  say.  My  double-glazed  windows  are  subject  to  between-pane  condensation,  and  moths  and  carpet  beetles  are  at  work  inside  the  hammers  of  my  piano.  My  3-hp.  rotary  snowthrower  is  a  bust.  &quot;Snow  was  ejected  as  a  powdery  mist,  which  blew  back  on  the  operator,&quot;  the  Anmual  says,  and  this  proved  to  be  the  case;  when  I  returned  from  the  trial  run  I  resembled  a  Lapp.  Unthrown  snow  drifts  now  about  my  automobile,  my  apple  trees,  and  Candace,  who  has  gone  out  to  col-  lect  the  mail.  But  let  her  go,  for  I  am  writing  letters,  wrothy  letters,  to  the  manufacturer,  the  Federal  Trade  Com-  mission,  the  National  Better  Business  Bureau,  and  the  Attorney  General  of  the  Stateof  [REDACTED],  as  the  Annual  advises  me  to  do.  The  world  is  sagging,  snagging,  scaling,  spalling,  pilling,  ping-  ing,  pitting,  warping,  checking,  fading,  chipping,  cracking,  yellowing,  leaking,  staling,  shrinking,  and  in  dynamic  un-  balance,  and  there  is  mildew  to  think  about,  and  ruptures  and  fractures  of  in-  ternal  organs  from  lap  belts,  and  sub-  standard  brake  fluids,  and  plastic  pipes  alluring  to  rats,  and  transistor  radios  whose  estimated  battery  life,  like  the  life  of  man,  is  nasty,  brutish,  and  short.  CANDACE  dear,  heart  of  my  heart,  take  your  hand  off  that  package  of  fabric  softener!  It  may  produce  an  insoluble  curd,  and  you  wouldn't  want  that,  would  you?  &quot;The  biggest  problem  the  consumer  has  in  selecting  shoes  is  not  fashion,  though  that  may  be  his  first  consideration,  but  selecting  a  shoe  that  will  not  ultimately  lead  to  the  dis-  tortion  of  his  foot.&quot;  And  don't  forget  about  shirts  that  develop  a  yellow  tint!  And  thermal  flame-resistant  under-  wear-especially  quilted  polyester  fibre-  nylon  shell  suits-which,  once  ignited,  melts  to  form  a  burning,  sticky,  ad-  hering  plastic!  And  paint  failure!  And  " b"pie  mixes  laced  with  esters,  ethers,  and  aldehydes  of  undefined  character'  And  bicycles  with  poor  pedal  design'  And  dimensionally-unstable  rayon  blankets!  And  electronic  organs  that  make  popping  sounds!  And  coffee  mills  that  adversely  affect  the  flavor  of  the  beverage!  And  travel  irons  whose  sole-  plates  blister!  And  desk  fans  with  high  noise  levels!  And  electric  shavers  with  tendency  to  irritate  neck!  Recall,  too,  that  purchasing  a  camera,  whether  new  or  used,  can  be  a  risky  operation  for  the  uninitiated!  That  few  diamonds  are  entirely  free  from  every  sort  of  defect  orflaw!  That  with  today's  watches  a  fairly  high  price  gives  no  assurance  of  reliable  performance  or  durable  con-  struction!  That  tire-gauge  designs  leave  much  to  be  desired!  And,  finally,  that  the  custom  of  going  around  without  a  hat  or  shirt  in  hot  sunny  climates,  and  allowing  children  to  do  so,  should  be  strongly  discouraged!  O  brave  Consumer  Bulletin  Annual,  holding  the  line  in  a  world  where  the  best  lack  all  conviction,  while  the  worst  are  full  of  passionate  intensity!  You  give  me  touchstones  with  which  to  protect  myself  against  the  deceptive  pricing,  false  gift  offers,  spurious  claims,  bait  ad-  vertising,  and  general  rascality  of  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  economy.  &quot;A  good  spring  should  be  noiseless,  or  comparatively  so.  Push  on  it  in  quiet  surroundings.&quot;  Of  course.  Do  you  mind  if  I  take  this  spring  into  the  elevator  with  me  for  a  moment?  And  close  the  doors,  will  you,  ffoorwalk-  er?  And  what  are  you  grinning  about?  &quot;For  durability,  loops  ofaterry  towel  should  be  thickly  packed  and  firm.  Check  firmness  by  inserting  a  pin  into  a  pile  loop,  raising  it  up  from  the  towel  slightly.&quot;  Pin  poised,  I  advance  into  the  murky  depths  of  the  towel  store,  clearly  a  man  with  a  mission.  In  the  depart-  ment  store,  I  stand  bent  over  a  port-  able  refrigerator,  inspecting  a  tray  of  ice  cubes  with  my  jeweller's  loupe.  Yes,  it  has  taken  them  much  too  long  to  freeze.  Quickly  I  unfasten  the  jesses  that  bind  Hugo,  the  killer  hawk,  to  my  wrist.  Dubious  refrigeration  shall  not  go  un-  punished!  Now  Hugo  is  aloft,  heading  for  Panda,  [REDACTED],  where  the  worthless  devices  are  manufactured.  See  him  soar! And  now  Port  Moresby.  Come,  Candace,  let  me  coax  you  out  from  un-  der  that  bell  jar,  into  which  you  have  repaired  to  guard  delicate  ears  against  sound  of  china  crazing  in  the  kitchen.  Come,  Candace,  and  don't  worry  about  the  packing.  The  only  appliance  I  plan  to  take  with  me  is  Hugo. "