 b"THE  County  Psychiatric  Clinic,  situated  a  discreet  three  miles  be-  yond  the  town  boundary,  was  made  up  of  two  distinct  groups  of  buildings,as  contrasting  as  two  figures  in  a  parable.  There  was  theold  block,  originally  the  Mental  Hospital,  a  gran-  ite  fortress  with  lean,  high  windows  and  black  iron  doors,  where  the  &quot;perma-  nently  unwell&quot;  now  crooned  or  sobbed  or  fluttered  away  their  remaining  days.  One  hundred  and  fifty  yards  away,  at  the  end  ofa  dividing  patch  that  was  neither  field  nor  lawn,  there  was  the  new  block,  the  pride  of  the  County  Health  Authority-a  collection  of  pas-  tel-colored  chalets  with  large  glass  doors  and  windows,  where  &quot;temporarily  dis-  turbed&quot;  people  made  model  airplanes  or  lampshades  or  raffia  mats  with  eager,  brittle  concentration.  It  was  to  the  new  block  that  Johnny  Barr  drove  Mrs.  MacMenamin,  his  mother-in-law,  in  his  taxi  every  Tuesday  and  Thursday  morning  during  the  whole  of  the  month  of  March.  At  the  time  of  Mr.  Mac's  death,  and,  indeed,  for  three  weeks  afterward,  Mrs.  Mac  had  been  wonderful.  The  anguish  and  indignity  that  his  sudden  death  had  let  loose-the  invasion  by  the  bailiffs,  the  indecent  haste  with  which  the  bank  sold  the  house  and  the  farm  off  to  the  first  bidder,  the  shooting  of  the  two  obese,  useless  Labradors  (who  wanted  two  gun-shy  gun  dogs?  ),  getting  Sar-  ah,  the  old  housekeeper,  accepted  in  the  Old  People's  Home  run  by  the  Nazareth  nuns,  and  only  after  much  pleading-all  this  she  had  borne  so  quietly  and  so  courageously  that  Johnny  realized  he  had  never  known  her  be-  fore.  Previously,  he  had  thought  of  her  as  a  vague,  diffident,  impractical  wom-  an.  Now  he  admired  her.  So  that  when  her  son,  Henry,  who  was  a  doctor,  ig-  nored  her  requests  to  go  and  live  with  him  in  his  flat  in  [REDACTED],  Johnny  promptly  offered  her  the  spare  room  in  his  neat  terrace  house  with  his  wife,  Mary,  and  himself.  She  accepted,  and  he  was  glad  to  have  her.  It  never  oc-  curred  to  him  that  this  would  strike  her  as  the  final,  crushing  indignity.  For  three  weeks,  she  behaved  as  if  nothing  in  her  life  had  changed.  She  read  in  her  bedroom,  or  did  a  little  light  housework,  or  sometimes  just  sat  in  the  tiny,  precise  parlor  and  gazed  out  placidly  at  the  children  playing  in  the  street  after  school.  Then,  one  Sunday  after  supper,  when  Johnny  and  Mary  were  worrying  over  the  problem  of  whether  they  should  go  ahead  and  buy  a  second  taxi,  their  favorite  Sunday-  night  topic,  Mrs.  MacMenamin  began  to  cry  quietly.  Johnny  was  the  first  to  notice  her  tears.  &quot;It's  O.K.,  Mrs.  Mac,&quot;  he  said.  He  winked  at  her,.  &quot;Even  if  a  second  cab  leaves  us  short  for  a  while,  we  won't  put  you  out  to  work!&quot;  Before  he  had  finished  speaking,  she  began  to  moan.  Her  moaning  grew  into  a  wail,  and  the  wail  thinned  and  roseto  a  shriek,  and  when  they  held  her,  John-  ny  by  the  right  arm  and  Mary  by  the  left,  she  flung  back  her  head  and  screamed  and  screamed  at  the  ceiling.  The  paroxysm  lasted  less  than  a  minute.  When  her  struggling  was  strongest  and  her  distraught  cries  broke  against  the  walls  of  the  confining  room,  she  sud-  denly  went  limp.  They  carried  her  long,  awkward  body  upstairs  and  laid  her  on  the  bed,  and  tiptoed  down  again  and  talked  in  whispers.  Later,  the  doctor  called  and  said,  &quot;Reaction  ...  nerves  ...  temporary  ...&quot;  and  arranged  for  an  appointment  for  her  at  the  County  Psychiatric  Clinic.  The  clinic  advised  electric-shock  treatments-two  times  a  week,  nine  treatments  in  all-and  John-  ny  took  on  the  job  of  driving  her  there  and  back,  because  there  was  no  one  else  to  do  it,  and  because  ever  since  that  Sunday  night,  seeing  her  so  helpless  and  so  pale  and  so  exposed  on  top  of  the  bedclothes,  his  admiration  for  her  had  turned  into  affection.  JOHNNY  came  to  enjoy  those  trips  to  the  clinic.  Occasionally  he  calcu-  lated  that  they  were  costing  him  a  lot  of  money  (in  wear  and  tear  on  the  car,  not  totalk  of  lost  fares),  but  it  was  pleasant  to  get  away  from  the  smelly  taxi  rank  and  out  into  the  keen  spring  air  of  the  country.  While  he  waited  for  Mrs.  Mac,  he  walked  around  the  grounds,  admiring  the  trim  paths  and  the  careful  gardens  and  the  tidy  shrubs  and  thinking  how  lucky  he  was-a  wife  who  loved  and  respected  him  (and  who  had  now  become  so  thrifty  that  her  watchfulness  sometimes  annoyed  him  ),  a  compact,  comfortable  home,  a  busi-  ness  that  was  expanding.  Every  morn-  ing,  too,  he  stood  and  gazed  for  ashort  time  across  the  patch  of  land  that  was  neither  field  nor  lawn,  and  then,  for  some  reason,  his  thoughts  invariably  went  back  to  the  time  before  he  was  married,  when  he  went  out  to  the  MacMenamins'  farm  every  Sunday   " b"afternoon  to  take  Mary  fora  drive.  But  most  of  the  waiting  timehe  spent  stroll-  ing  around  the  chalets,  which,  to  all  outward  appearances,  might  have  been  a  collection  of  summer  holiday  houses.  After  fouror  five  visits,  Johnny  was  convinced  that  the  electric-shock  treat-  ments  were  a  failure.  The  only  effect  they  had  on  Mrs.  Mac-and  he  did  not  mention  this  to  Mary,  because  it  lasted  for  only  about  twenty  minutes  after  the  old  woman  came  out  of  the  sky-blue  chalet-was  to  make  her  arrogant  and  overbearing,  even  more  imperious  than  Lady  Hartnell  of  Killard,  whom  he  drove  to  the  bank  once  a  month.  Mrs.  Mac  would  march  up  to  the  taxi  and  climb  into  the  back  seat  and  say,  &quot;Off  you  go,  John!&quot;  as  if  he  were  her  private  chauffeur.  Of  course,  the  treatments  temporarily  impaired  her  memory-the  doctor  had  told  him  to  expect  that-and  as  he  drove  her  home  he  protected  him-  self  against  her  bumptiousness  by  en-  couraging  her  confusions.  It  was  harm-  less  enough  fun,  Johnny  asking  her  how  things  were  on  the  farm  these  days  and  she  replying  that  Mr.  Mac  had  just  bought  a  huge  combine  harvester,  or  the  latest  milking  machine,  or  a  very  expen-  sive  pedigreed  bull.  Or  Johnny  would  wonder  out  loud  how  the  spring  sowing  was  going,  and  she  would  list  off  such  a  series  of  crops  as  the  biggest  farm  in  the  whole  of  Ireland  could  never  have  pro-  duced.  The  grander  she  got  withhim,  the  more  he  chuckled  to  himself.  But  by  the  time  he  drew  up  at  the  door,  her  affectations  all  vanished  and  her  mem-  ory  came  back,  and  she  was  a  silent,  timid,  tearful,  aging  woman  again.  He  helped  her  out  of  his  taxi  and  guided  her  tenderly  into  the  house  and  handed  her  over  to  his  wife  as  gently  as  if  she  were  a  baby,  because  then,  seeing  her  so  reduced,  and  remembering  her  as  she  had  once  been,  he  regretted  his  baiting  and  resolved  never  to  mention  the  farm  again.  The  MacMenamins  never  had  the  wealth  or  the  position  of  Lady  Hart-  nell  of  Killard.  But  they  might  have,  had  Mr.  Mac  not  drunk  so  heavily,  had  Mrs.  Mac  been  more  practical,  had  they  kept  Henry  on  the  farm  (and  it  was  one  of  the  best  farms  in  County  Tyrone)  instead  of  making  a  doctor  of  him,  had  the  rich  land  been  worked  and  not  let  to  neighbors.  'They  lived  imprudently,  carelessly,  without  thought  for  the  future.  When  he  recalled  those  Sunday  afternoons,  Johnny  remembered  the  feeling  of  annoyance  that  had  pricked  him  every  time  he  saw  electric  lights  burn-  ing  all  over  the  house  in  broad  daylight,  the  apples  rotting  in  barrels  in  the  pantry,  the  wrought-iron  gates  hanging  from  one  hinge,  or  the  buckets  rust-  ing  in  the  water  troughs.  Every  time  he  went  there,  he  wanted  to  throw  off  his  coat  and  fix  fences,  paint  doors,  and  gather  up  fallen  branches  for  firewood.  So  much  waste.  Such  great  in-  difference.  He  would  knock  at  the  door;  no  one  would  answer,  and  he  would  go  in-  to  the  high,  panelled  hall.  Mr.  Mac  would  be  in  a  deep  sleep  before  a  dead  fire  in  the  drawing  room,  or  puzzling  futilely  over  pages  of  figures  and  ac-  counts.  Mrs.  Mac  would  be  upstairs,  reading  in  one  of  the  bed-  rooms,  or  crocheting  in  the  breakfast  room.  Sarah,  the  old  housekeeper,  would  be  dozing  in  the  kitchen,  al-  though  the  table  would  be  piled  high  with  the  lunch  dishes.  Even  Mary,  who  knew  to  expect  him,  was  seldom  waiting  for  him.  He  would  find  her  in  the  fields,  wandering  around  in  search  of  hens'  nests,  or  down  in  one  of  the  byres,  play-  ing  with  a  litter  of  young  pups.  The  whole  setup  confused  and  annoyed  him,  and  yet  fascinated  him.  When  he  was  with  them,  he  was  conscious  only  of  im-  patience.  W  hat  a  business  he  would  have  made  ofthat  place!  How  he  could  have  run  it!  Yet  when  he  went  home  to  his  own  house  in  the  town-before  he  mar-  ried,  he  lived  in  three  rooms  as  natty  and  precise  as  a  doll's  house,  above  the  bakery  where  his  father  was  night  watchman-he  forgot  the  chaos  and  the  decay  and  remembered  only  the  tran-  quillity  of  their  lives.  He  would  look  at  his  mother,  birdlike,  shrivelled,  sharp  with  the  lifelong  battle  against  pov-   " b"erty,  and  think  of  Mrs.  Mac,  who  had  floated  serenely  above  hardship.  He  would  watch  his  father  roll  cigarettes  (by  making  his  own,  he  saved  three-  pence  a  packet)  and  remember  the  car-  pet  at  Mr.  Mac's  feet  ruined  by  cigar  burns.  The  contrast  between  the  life  he  had  been  reared  to  and  the  life  he  now  tasted  made  him  dissatisfied  with  both.  It  would  have  taken  so  little,  he  knew,  to  win  him  over  to  the  MacMen-  amins.  If  Mr.  Mac  had  said  even  once  to  him,  &quot;You're  early  today,&quot;  or  &quot;We  thought  you  were  never  coming,&quot;  or  if  Mrs.  Mac  had  asked  him  even  once  what  his  job  was  or  what  his  ambitions  were,  then  there  would  have  been  no  conflict.  But  they  gave  him  as  little  of  their  attention  as  they  gave  to  one  an-  other,  or  to  theland,  or  to  the  fat,  wheezing  Labradors,  who  wandered  un-  heeded  upstairs  and  downstairs.  And  still,  those  Sunday-afternoon  visits  were  the  highlight  of  his  week.  It  was  not  for  Mary  alone  that  he  spread  his  trousers  under  the  mattress  every  Saturday  night  so  that  they  would  have  a  sharp  crease,  and  bathed  himself  in  the  iron  tub  in  the  miniature  scullery,  and  polished  his  shoes  until  they  glistened.  It  was  primarily  for  her,  of  course;  but  it  was  also  for  Mrs.  Mac,  and  even  for  Mr.  Mac,  and,  in  some  vague  way  that  he  could  not  un-  derstand  himself,  out  of  deference  to  the  ramshackle  farm  itself.  N  the  last  week  of  Mrs.  Mac's  course  of  treatments,  Mary  came  across  the  notice  of  Sarah's  death  in  the  Home.  Johnny  agreed  that  the  news  must  be  kept  from  Mrs.  Mac.  If  she  was  making  progress-and  there  was  little  evidence  that  she  was-this  would  set  her  back.  Yet  when  she  came  out  of  the  clinic  later  that  morning  and  saidto  him,  &quot;Hurry  up!  I  have  shopping  to  do!  Don't  sit  there  leering  at  me!,&quot;  he  knew  he  was  going  to  tell  her.  He  waited  until  they  had  passed  through  the  gates.  Then  he  said,  &quot;How  do  you  feel  today,  Mrs.  Mac?&quot;  &quot;Quite  well,  thank  you,  John.&quot;  She  looked  very  alert  that  day,  much  better  than  after  any  of  the  previous  treat-  ments.  &quot;One  more  visit  and  you're  finished  up,  Mrs.  Mac.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  &quot;What  will  you  do  with  yourself  then?&quot;  &quot;I  haven'tdecided  yet.  Travel,  may-  be.  Go  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  few  weeks.  D'youknow,  I  haven't  been  in  [REDACTED]  since  Henry  qualified.&quot;  Her  eyes  be-  came  troubled.  &quot;But  travel  is  so  expen-  sive,  isn't  it?&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;It  takes  so  much  money,  doesn't  it?&quot;  &quot;As  well  as  that,  you  couldn't  very  well  leave  the  farm  at  this  time  of  year,&quot;  he  prompted.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  said,  but  so  dreamily  that  he  knew  she  was  agreeing  with  her  own  private  thoughts.  &quot;'This  is  your  busiest  time  on  the  land,  isn't  it,  Mrs.  Mac?  This  is  the  time  all  you  farmers  work  a  sixteen-  hour  day,  isn't  it?&quot;  ''Yes,&quot;  she  said  in  the  same  vague  way.  &quot;Quite  right  ...  yes  ...&quot;  He  watched  her  in  the  mirror  to  see  the  brows  furrow  in  concentration  and  the  lips  fumble  with  one  another,  as  they  always  did  on  these  trips  home.  But  not  today.  There  was  going  to  be  no  harm-  less  fun  today.  An  uneasiness  stirred  in  him.  &quot;I  suppose  you  heard  about  Sarah,  Mrs.  Mac?&quot;  &quot;Sarah?  Who's  Sarah?&quot;  &quot;Sarah,  the  old  housekeeper.  You  re-  member  Sarah,  don't  you?  Always  giv-  ing  backchat  to  you!&quot;  &quot;I  .  ..  yes,  I  think  I  remember  her.&quot;  &quot;I  knew  you  would.&quot;  He  paused,  conscious  of  cruelty.  But  before  he  could  muster  charity  he  heard  himself  saying,  &quot;She  died  last  night.&quot;  &quot;Sarah?  My  housekeeper?&quot;  &quot;Funeral  tomorrow  after  last  Mass.&quot;  &quot;Sarah?&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;Dead,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Ooh,  God!&quot;  She  did  not  cry,  but  she  moaned.  She  gripped  her  elbows  and  rocked  herself  backward  and  for-  ward  and  groaned  in  a  high  monotone  that  terrified  him.  He  thought  of  stop-  ping  the  taxi,  of  getting  her  a  drink  of  brandy,  of  rushing  her  to  a  doctor,  but  then  decided  instead  to  get  her  home  as  quickly  as  possible.  By  the  timethey  reached  the  house,  she  had  quietened,  He  put  his  arm  around  her  and  supported  her  into  the  hallway,  where  Mary  met  them.  &quot;Quick!&quot;  he  snapped.  &quot;Get  her  bed  ready!&quot;  Mary  stared  stupidly  at  them.  &quot;For  God's  sake,  move!&quot;  he  roared,  because  he  was  afraid  that  Mrs.  Mac  would  collapse  in  his  arms.  &quot;Move!  Move!  Move!&quot;  He  lifted  her  off  the  ground-she  was  as  light  as  a  child-and  carried  her  upstairs  as  tenderly  and  as  lovingly  as  if  she  were  a  baby.  Afterward,  when  she  was  asleep  and  he  was  having  a  meal,  Mary  kissed  him  on  the  forehead  and  said,  &quot;'Thank  you,  Johnny.  You've  been  better  to  her  than  any  son  could  have  been.&quot;  He  did  not  answer,  because  he  was  angry  with  himself,  because  he  felt  guilty,  and  because  he  was  fright,  ened.  There  had  been  a  moment  in  the  taxi,  after  Mrs.  Mac  did  not  respond  to  his  first  prompting  about  the  farm,  when  a  strange  loneliness  had  touched  him;  what  frightened  him  was  that  that  loneliness,  that  isolation,  might  touch  him  again,  might  even  enter  in-  to  him.  HE  following  Thursday  was  Mrs.  Mac's  last  visit.  It  was  a  glorious  spring  morning  that  was  both  urgent  and  still.  The  sun  was  high,  and  the  air  was  clean  and  clear,  and  the  grounds  had  never  looked  fresher  or  more  at-  tractive.  He  walked  round  the  paths  and  looked  at  the  flowers  he  had  seen  push  into  life,  and  strolled  between  the  neat,  trimmed  shrubs.  It  was  a  morning  for  alertness,  a  morning  when  a  man  can  look  back  over  the  past  and  take  pride  in  his  achievements,  and  look  for-  ward  to  the  future  and  plan  confidently  for  it.  But  somehow  Johnny  was  con- " b"scious  only  of  wistfulness.  There  was  growth  and  vitality  around  him  and  be-  neath  him,  but  his  senses  were  muted  with  a  vague  nostalgia.  He  left  the  new  block  and  gazed  across  the  patch  that  was  neither  field  nor  lawn.  And  then,  for  the  first  time,  he  understood  the  clinic's  special  attraction  for  him;  it  could  have  been  a  partof  the  farm.  This  discovery,  and  the  start  of  recognition  that  accompanied  it,  gave  him  a  mo-  ment's  pleasure,  a  delight  that  vanished  as  soon  as  it  was  felt.  It  gave  way  to  a  quick,  flooding  panic.  To  hell  with  the  farm,  he  thought,  angrily  marching  back  to  the  new  block.  To  hell  with  it!  To  hell  with  it!  Mrs.  Mac  found  him  in  the  waiting  room,  reading  magazines.  He  jumped  to  his  feet  when  he  saw  her.  &quot;All  set?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;At  long  last.  Let's  get  home  quick-  ly,  Johnny.  I  never  want  to  see  this  place  again.&quot;  And  she  giggled  nervous,  ly,  because  she  thought  that  a  nurse  who  was  passing  might  have  heard  her.  They  got  into  the  taxi.  For  the  first  time,  she  sat  beside  him  in  the  front.  He  waited  for  &quot;Off  you  go,  John!,&quot;  but  it  did  not  come.  As  they  passed  through  the  gates,  hetook  a  quick  look  back  at  the  grounds  and  the  two  groups  of  buildings.  They  looked  chaste  and  fes-  tive  in  the  sunlight.  Mrs.  Mac  smiled  happily  at  the  road  ahead.  &quot;Someday,  Johnny,  I'll  have  to  repay  you  for  all  these  trips.  You  have  been  more  than  kind  to  me.&quot;  'There's  only  one  way  you  can  re-  pay  me,  Mrs.  Mac,&quot;  he  said,  laughing  unnaturally.  &quot;What  way  is  that?&quot;  &quot;Leave  me  the  farm  when  you  die.&quot;  &quot;'There's  no  one  deserves  it  more,&quot;  she  said.  Johnny  remained  silent,  frowning  to  himself.  Mrs.  Mac  seemed  much  better  today;  she  was  almost  complacent.  For  some  reason  he  did  not  understand,  each  improvement  in  her  health  seemed  to  add  toa  growing  melancholy  inside  himself.  Now  he  tried  to  take  heart  from  the  ambiguity  of  her  last  reply.  So  she  really  thought  she  still  owned  the  farm,  did  she?  &quot;Is  this-is  this  Wednesday,  John-  ny?&quot;  Mrs.  Mac  said.  &quot;Thursday,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Then  I'm  a  day  late.&quot;  &quot;Late  for  what,  Mrs.  Mac?&quot;  &quot;For  the  funeral-Sarah's  funeral.&quot;  &quot;Sarah  was  buried  a  week  ago,  Mrs.  Mac.  You're  not  a  day  late-you're  eight  days  late!&quot;  &quot;Eight  days?  How-wheree-where  did  the  time  go?&quot;  &quot;How  should  I  know?&quot;  he  snapped.  Then,  persuasively,  he  added,  &quot;I  was  at  the  funeral.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you  were?  That's  good.  I'm  glad  we  were  represented.&quot;  &quot;No  one  there  but  myself.  The  only  mourner.&quot;  &quot;Poor  Sarah,&quot;  she  said,  dismissing  her  with  a  sigh.  &quot;May  God  have  mercy  on  her.&quot;  &quot;Remember  how  she  used  to  sleep  in  front  of  the  fire,  Mrs.  Mac?  Remem-  ber?  She  would  pile  up  the  dishes  and  pull  up  a  comfortable  chair  and  spread  herself  out  and-&quot;  &quot;She  was  so  stupid,&quot;  said  Mrs,  Mac  briskly.  &quot;At  least  half  a  dozen  times  I  taught  her  how  to  make  pastry.  But  she  never  could  learn.  She  really  was  a  peas-  ant,  Sarah.&quot;  &quot;Pastry?&quot;  he  said,  pouncing  on  the  scrap  of  new  information.  &quot;And  so  lazy!  Heavens,  how  I  stood  her  for  so  long!  But  let's  think  of  pleas-  ant  things,  shall  we?  D'you  know,  Johnny,  it'll  be  summer  before  we  know  it.&quot;  She  smiled  serenely  out  at  the  countryside.  &quot;I  wonder  what  Mary'll  have  for  lunch  today,&quot;  she  said  inter-  estedly.  MARY  was  waiting  for  them  at  the  door,  dancing  with  excitement;  Henry  was  coming  from  [REDACTED]  that  evening  to  take  Mrs.  Mac  back  with  him.  There  had  been  a  letter  in  the  mid-  day  delivery,  and  on  its  heels  a  telegram  with  the  same  news.  He  had  forgotten  he  had  written!  So  typical  of  Henry!  Mrs.  Mac  took  the  news  as  calmly  as  if  she  had  expected  it.  &quot;Henry  was  al-  ways  a  good  boy,&quot;  she  said  to  Mary.  &quot;But  I  love  your  Johnny  every  bit  as  dearly  now.  He  has  been  as  good  to  me  as  any  son.&quot;  She  went  upstairs  to  pack.  Johnny  pretended  that  he  had  a  run  to  do.  He  dashed  out  of  his  house,  sprang  into  his  taxi,  and  drove  recklessly  to-  ward  the  center  of  the  town.  He  steered  wildly,  in  full  stampede,  and  through  the  windscreen  he  saw  only  the  farm  as  he  had  known  it  in  all  its  autumn  de-  cay  and  beauty.  Mrs.  Mac  had  escaped.  She  was  at  peace,  no  longer  frightened  by  the  past  and  the  morass  of  memory,  but  her  release  had  deprived  him  forever  of  the  farm  and  the  Sunday  afternoons  and  all  the  tidy,  attainable  ambitions  of  his  single  days.  Chilled  by  this  sudden  personal  disaster,  he  drove  faster  and  faster,  as  if  he  could  escape  the  moment  when  he  would  take  up  the  lonely  bur-  den  of  recollections  that  the  dead  had  fied  from  and  the  living  had  forgotten. "