 b"(A  Late TRIAL BALLOON  For  STILL  ANOTHER REPUBLICAN  HopEFuUL)  LAST  week,  while  hard-running  G.O.P.  White  House  aspirant  Harold  Stassen  campaigned  vig-  orously  through  southern  [REDACTED],  highly  placed  Republican  insiders  were  private-  ly  conceding  that  a  compellingly  logical  choice  for  the  Party's  nomination  was  Governor  Walford  W.  Oglethorpe,  Jr.,  the  lanky,  likable,  forty-three-year-  old  former  pig-iron  executive.  Virtually  unknown  in  the  national  arena  until  last  Friday  evening,  when  he  made  a  surprise  guest  appearance  on  &quot;Twilight  Zone,&quot;  Oglethorpe  has  rapidly  been  picking  up  delegate  strength,  and  late  reports  from  Bismarck,  for  instance,  indicate  that  North  Dakota's  fourteen  Convention  votes  have  now  definitely  swung  to  the  dark-horse  Episcopalian.  A  liberal  conservative,  with  a  bril-  liant  middle-of-the-road  record,  Ogle-  thorpe  is  known  to  be  an  outspoken  foe  of  Communism  and  drunken  driving.  The  wealthy  Middle  Western  prag-  matist,  say  veteran  political  observers,  is  left  of  Goldwater  and  right  of  Rocke-  feller,  and  thus  in  an  excellent  position  to  walk  off  with  all  the  marbles  in  San  Francisco  next  July,  especially  since  the  recent  high-flying  Dirksen  boomlet  seems  to  have  nosedived  abruptly.  While  Oglethorpe  has  repeatedly  denied  that  he  is  a  Presidential  candi-  date,  stating  time  and  time  again  that  there  are  absolutely  no  circumstances  under  which  he  would  accept  the  G.O.P.  nomination,  he  has,  on  the  oth-  er  hand,  not  yet  entirely  slammed  the  door  on  the  possibility  of  a  draft.  &quot;I  am  not  now  a  candidate,&quot;  says  Ogle-  thorpe  unequivocally,  &quot;nor  will  I  be  a  candidate  at  any  time  in  the  future.  However,  I  would  feel  it  my  solemn  duty  to  put  aside  selfish  personal  consid-  erations  if  my  country  chose  to  call  upon  me.&quot;  In  the  smoke-filled  Republican  Na-  tional  Committee  rooms  of  Washing-  ton's  swank  Mayflower  Hotel,  in  certain  recesses  of  General  Eisenhower's  mind,  and,  indeed,  everywhere  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  today,  one  question  is  being  asked:  &quot;What  kind  of  man  is  Walford  W.  Oglethorpe,  Jr.?&quot;  GREETING  visitors  on  the  front  steps  of  his  family's  hundred-year-  old  Georgian  mansion,  the  blue-eyed  ex-college  pole  vaulter  impresses  one  immediately  with  his  patrician  good  looks  and  engaging  smile  as  he  thrusts  out  his  right  hand  to  say,  with  characteristic  friendliness,  &quot;Hi,  I'm  Walfie  Ogle-  thorpe.  Nice  to  see  you,  fella.&quot;  Tossing  a  casual  left  arm  over  his  visitor's  shoul-  der,  the  lantern-jawed  multimillionaire  then  leads  his  caller  into  a  private  inner  office,  where,  settling  cheerfully  into  an  outsized  swivel  chair  and  propping  cordovan-shod  feet  on  a  gleaming  Italian  Renaissance  desk,  he  asks,  with  a  good-natured  grin,  &quot;What  can  I  do  you  for?&quot;  It  is  this  disarmingly  informal  man-  ner  that  has,  in  the  brief  five  months  he  has  held  public  office,  so  swiftly  endeared  Oglethorpe  to  those  around  him.  More-  over,  hard-bitten  young  Time  and  Newsweek  reporters  have  been  con-  tinually  astonished  by  the  straightfor-  ward,  uncomplicated  way  in  which  the  balding  golf  enthusiast  speaks  his  mind.  &quot;Americans  of  all  races  and  creeds  must  be  given  equal  opportunity  in  our  na-  tion,&quot;  said  the  clean-shaven  Governor  forthrightly  not  long  ago,  when  asked  to  comment  on  the  civil-rights  question.  &quot;However,  this  is  not  a  problem  that  can  be  solved  overnight.  We  must  move  forward  both  energetically  and  with  the  utmost  moderation.&quot;  What  has  struck  Republican  poten-  tates  most  about  Oglethorpe,  however,  is  his  amazing  vote-getting  knack.  A  lifelong  businessman,  with  little  experi-  ence  in  politics,  he  was  given  virtually  no  chance  at  all  last  year  in  his  race  against  Kermit  Quesnell,  the  long-time  incumbent  Democratic  governor.  Ogle-  thorpe  campaigned  relentlessly,  how-  ever,  and  ultimately  carried  the  state  by  nearly  two  hundred  and  twenty-five  thousand  votes.  When  all  the  returns  were  in,  Quesnell  and  his  cronies  at  once  cried  foul,  whining  that  the  handsome  G.O.P.  aristocrat  had  &quot;bought&quot;  the   election.  Not  so,  replied  Oglethorpe  spokesmen,  amiably  admitting,  at  the  same  time,  that  an  election-eve  maneu-  ver  masterminded  by  the  loose-limbed  Shriner  himself  may  have  tipped  the  scales  in  his  favor.  On  the  night  before  the  election,  an  Oglethorpe-hired  DC-3  cargo  plane,  cruising  at  three  thousand  feet,  dumped  several  tons  of  loose  trading  stamps  on  each  of  the  state's  seven  major  urban  centers.  Attached  to  the  specially  print-  ed  stamps  were  notices  stating  that  if  Oglethorpe  was  elected  the  stamps  would  be  redeemable  for  &quot;valuable  gifts  worth  $10  or  more&quot;  on  the  Thursday  evening  following  the  election  at  any  one  of  the  seven  hundred  Oglethorpe  campaign  centers  acrossthe  state.  Sour-  grapes  Democrats  quickly  claimed  that  &quot;The  Charity  Drop,&quot;  as  the  popular  right-handed  ectomorph  himself  termed  it,  had  unfairly  influenced  on-the-fence  voters.  Justifiably  indignant  at  this  charge,  an  angry  Oglethorpe,  deter-  mined  to  remove  even  the  slightest  shadow  of  scandal  from  the  circum-  stances  of  his  election,  forthrightly  an-  nounced  that  he  had  decided  not  to  honor  the  stamps  after  all.  On  taking  over  the  reins  of  govern-  ment,  Oglethorpe  vowed  to  clean  up  the  mess  in  the  Hawktail  State,  and  at  once  directed  his  attention  to  the  prob-  lems  of  rising  unemployment,  labor  un-  rest,  and  rumored  stories  of  corruption  in  public-works  projects.  Thus,  rolling  up  his  sleeves,  Walfie  Oglethorpe  went  to  work.  Within  three  months,  how-  ever,  the  state's  unemployment  rate  had  zoomed  to  23.4  per  cent,  three  major  industrial  centers  were  tied  up  by  crip-  pling  disc-jockey  strikes,  and  the  entire  western  half  of  the  state  was  under  four  feet  of  water.  Naturally,  none  of  this  was  Oglethorpe's  fault,  for  the  straight-  backed  rookie  state  executive  had  been  saddled  with  a  legacy  of  twenty  years  of  weary  Democratic  rule.  Nor  could  anyone  blame  him  for  the  unfortunate  collapse  of  the  fifty-million-dollar  Kina-  watchie  High  Dam,  although  Quesnell  and  his  henchmen  tried  to  do  just  that,  slyly  pointing  out  that  the  three-year-  old  dam  had  been  built  by  the  &quot;Big  O&quot;  Construction  Company,  a  bustling,  imaginative  concern  in  which  the  Gov-  ernor  holds  a  controlling  interest.  &quot;I  will  not  stoop  to  comment  on  the  irre-  sponsible  ravings  of  left-wing  malcon-  tents,&quot;  said  Oglethorpe  courageously,  quickly  quashing  a  proposed  budget-  damaging  investigation  of  the  disaster,  adding,  &quot;I  am  particularly  disturbed  that  such  charges  should  be  levelled  at  a  time  when  the  homes  of  countless  voters  are  adrift  in  the  Kinawatchie  " b"River.  This  is  a  time  for  prayer,  not  for  cheap  politicking.&quot;  ORN  on  August  14,  1920,  in  New-  port,  Rhode  Island,  where  his  par-  ents  then  had  a  summer  home,  Walford  Whitby  Oglethorpe,  Jr.,  who  is  a  twen-  ty-seventh-generation  American  of  blue-  blood  Anglo-Saxon  stock,  is  a  gradu-  ate  of  Deerfield,  Princeton,  and  the  Schmerzhaft  Academy  of  Periodontics.  (As  a  young  man,  the  artistically  in-  clined  Oglethorpe  had  yearned  to  be  a  dentist,  but  when  his  no-nonsense  father  threatened  to  disinherit  him  he  aban-  doned  his  drills  and  instead  went  to  work  in  the  main  plant  at  Oglethorpe  Iron,  starting  at  the  bottom  as  a  thirty-  seven-cents-an-hour  sludge  muddler  and  rising  to  become  the  plant's  eighty-  thousand-dollar-a-year  manager,  all  in  the  space  of  three  weeks.  Oglethorpe's  interest  in  dentistry  remains  keen,  how-  ever,  and  even  today  he  still  fills  all  of  his  own  cavities.)  On  June  4,  1942,  Oglethorpe  eloped  with  his  childhood  sweetheart,  Mary  Jane  Thayer,  the  Perth  Amboy  zinc-oxide  heiress,  and  the  inseparable  couple  now  have  three  chil-  dren-Betsy,  who  is  seven;  Ralph,  who  is  twelve;  and  young  Wally  III,  twen-  ty,  who  will  enter  the  freshman  class  at  Rollins  next  fall.  Oglethorpe  frequently  tells  a  story  about  himself  as  a  boy  that  sheds  con-  siderable  light  on  his  remarkable  success  in  business  and  government.  One  day,  when  venturing  outside  the  gates  of  his  grandfather's  four-hundred-acre  coun-  try  estate,  Plenworth,  the  puny  twelve-  year-old  Oglethorpe  was  fallen  upon  by  a  local  bully  and  given  a  bad  beating.  Gritting  his  teeth,  the  determined  future  governor  of  his  state  marched  home  and,  telling  no  one  what  had  happened,  started  immediately  on  a  program  of  physical  conditioning,  risingat  six  each  morning  to  put  himself  through  a  pun-  ishing  regimen  of  body-building  exer-  cises.  Six  months  later,  when  the  now  muscular  pre-teenager  once  more  ven-  tured  off  the  estate,  he  was  again  at-  tacked  by  the  bully,  andon  this  occa-  sion  was  beaten  up  even  more  severely  than  before.  At  once  he  raced  home,  corralled  the  family  chauffeur,  who  was  a  former  contender  for  the  light-heavy-  weight  boxing  crown,  and  together  the  two  hunted  down  the  bully.  When  they  found  the  boy,  Oglethorpe  stood  by  while  the  chauffeur  beat  the  loutish  young  bully  to  within  an  inch  of  his  life.  &quot;That  experience  taught  me  a  great  lesson.  One  must  learn  to  delegate  au-  thority-let  the  expert  do  the  expert's  job,&quot;  said  Oglethorpe  the  other  day,  re-  calling  the  incident  from  his  childhood  with  a  nostalgic  chuckle.  All  in  all,  delegating  authority  right  and  left,  the  earnest,  Monopoly-play-  ing  Republican  newcomer  has  built  up  an  impressively  solid  record,  revealing  himself  to  be  an  extremely  able  admin-  istrator,  a  cool,  levelheaded  thinker,  and  an  indefatigable  worker.  (He  often  puts  in  more  than  twenty  hours  a  day  at  his  desk,  and,  indeed,  sometimes  has  to  be  shaken  awake  in  his  chair  by  loyal  aides.)  Moreover,  in  street-corner  chats  with  his  constituents  he  has  displayed  an  almost  Rooseveltian  common  touch,  eas-  ily  swapping  anecdotes  with  out-of-work  coal  miners,  destitute  farmers,  and  other  deadbeats  whom,  naturally  enough,  he  does  not  have  an  opportunity  to  meet  on  the  golf  course.  &quot;The  greatthing  about  Walfie  Oglethorpe,&quot;  remarked  one  of  his  aides  the  other  day,  &quot;is  that  the  guy  has  a  terrific  sense  of  noblesse  oblige.&quot;  Summing  up  the  extraordinary  appeal  of  the  clean-eared  Sports  Illustrated  subscriber  to  top  Republican  influentials,  seasoned  G.O.P.  hands  have  pointed  out  that  he  is:  (1)  the  governor  of  a  key  industrial  state,  (2)  a  proven  vote-getter  with  an  almost  unblemished  administra-  tive  record,  and  (3)  a  youthful  and  dy-  namic  candidate  whom  no  one,  from  the  Ku  Klux  Klan  to  the  A.D.A.,  from  Murray  Kempton  to  William  F.  Buck-  ley,  Jr.,  finds  the  least  bit  offensive.  &quot;And,  best  of  all,&quot;  adds  one  veteran  [REDACTED]  observer,  &quot;practically  no  one's  ever  heard  of  him.&quot;  "