 b"Mr.  Bradish:  wanted  a  change.  M  He  did  not  mean  at  all  by  this  that  he  wanted  to  change  him-  self-only  his  scenery,  his  pace,  and  his  environment,  and  that  for  only  a  space  of  eighteen  or  twenty  days.  He  could  leave  his  office  for  that  long.  Bradish  was  a  heavy  smoker,  and  the  Surgeon  General's  report  had  made  him  self-  conscious  about  his  addiction.  It  seemed  to  him  that  strangers  on  the  street  re-  garded  the  cigarette  in  his  fingers  with  disapproval  and  sometimes  with  com-  miseration.  This  was  manifestly  absurd,  and  he  needed  to  get  away.  He  would  take  a  trip.  He  was  divorced  at  the  time,  and  would  go  alone.  One  day  after  lunch  he  stopped  in  a  travel  agency  onPark  [REDACTED]  to  see  what  rates  were  in  force.  A  receptionist  directed  him  to  a  desk  at  the  back  of  the  office,  where  a  young  woman  offered  him  a  chair  and  lit  his  cigarette  with  a  matchbook  flying  the  ensign  of  the  Co-  rinthian  Yacht  Club.  She  had,  he  no-  ticed,  a  dazzling  smile  and  a  habit  of  biting  it  off  when  it  had  served  its  pur-  pose,  as  a  tailor  bites  off  a  thread.  He  had  England  in  mind.  He  would  spend  ten  days  in  [REDACTED]  and  ten  in  the  country  with  friends.  When  he  mentioned  Eng-  land,  the  clerk  said  that  she  had  recently  come  back  from  England  herself.  From  Coventry.  She  flashed  her  smile,  bit  it  off.  He  did  not  want  to  go  to  Coventry,  but  she  was  a  young  woman  with  the  de-  termination  and  single-mind-  edness  of  her  time  of  life,  and  he  saw  that  he  would  have  to  hear  herout  on  the  beauties  of  Coventry,  where  she  seemed  to  have  had  an  aesthetic  and  a  spiritual  rebirth.  She  took  from  her  desk  drawer  an  il-  lustrated  magazine  to  show  him  pictures  of  the  cathedral.  What  impressed  him,  as  it  happened,  was  a  blunt  ad-  vertisement  in  the  magazine,  stating  that  cigarettes  caused  lung  cancer.  He  dismissed  England  from  his  mind-the  clerk  was  still  on  Coventry-  and  thought  that  he  would  go  to  [REDACTED].  He  would  go  to  [REDACTED]  The  French  gov-  ernment  had  not  censured  smoking,  and  he  could  inhale  his  Gauloise  without  feeling  subversive.  However,  the  memory  of  a  Gauloise  stopped  him.  Gauloises,  Bleues  and  Jaunes.  He  recalled  how  their  smoke  seemed  to  drop  from  an  altitude  into  his  lungs  and  double  him  up  with  paroxysms  of  coughing.  In  his  imagination  clouds  of  rank  French  tobacco  smoke  seemed  to  settle  like  a  bitter  fog  over  the  City  of  Light,  making  it  appear  to  him  an  unsavory  and  despondent  place.  So  he  would  go  to  the  Tyrol,  he  thought.  He  was  about  to  ask  for  information  on  the  Tyrol  when  he  remembered  that  tobacco  was  a  state  monopoly  in  Austria  and  that  all  you  could  get  to  smoke  there  were  flavorless  ovals  that  came  in  fancy  boxes  and  smelled  of  per-  fume.  4974616c79,  then.  He  would  cross  the  Brenner  and  go  down  to  4974616c79.  But  he  remembered  Italian  cigarettes-Espor-  taziones  and  Giubeks-remembered  how  the  crude  tobacco  stuck  to  his  tongue  and  how  the  smoke,  like  a  win-  ter  wind,  made  him  shiver  and  think  of  death.  He  would  go  on  to  [REDACTED],  then;  he  would  take  a  cruise  through  the  is-  lands,  he  thought-until  he  recalled  the  taste  of  that  Egyptian  tobacco  that  is  all  you  can  get  to  smoke  in  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED].  496e646961.  4a6170616e.  Glancing  above  the  clerk's  head  to  a  map  of  the  world,  he  saw  it  all  as  a  chain  of  tobacco  stores.  There  was  no  escape.  &quot;I  think  I  won't  go  anywhere,&quot;  he  said.  The  clerk  flashed  her  smile,  bit  it  off  like  a  thread,  and  watched  him  go  out  the  door.  HE  quality  of  discipline  shines  through  a  man's  life  and  all  his  works,  giving  them  a  probity  and  a  fineness that  preclude  disorder,  or  so  Brad-  ish  thought.  The  time  had  come  for  him  to  discipline  himself.  He  put  out  his  last  cigarette  and  walked  up  Park  Ave-  nue  with  the  straitened,  pleasant,  and  slightly  dancy  step  of  an  old  athlete  who  has  his  shoes  and  his  suits  made  in  Eng-  land.  As  a  result  of  his  decision,  toward  the  end  of  the  afternoon  he  began  to  suffer  from  something  that  resembled  a  mild  case  of  the  bends.  His  circulatory  system  was  disturbed.  His  capillaries  seemed  abraded,  his  lips  were  swollen,  and  now  and  then  his  rightfoot  would  sting.  There  was  a  marked  unfreshness  in  his  mouth  that  seemed  too  various  and  powerful  to  be  contained  by  that  small  organ;  seemed  by  its  power  and  variety  to  enlarge  his  mouth,  giving  it,  in  fact,  the  dimensions  and  malodorousness  of  some  ancient  burlesque  theatre  like  the  Howard  Athenaeum.  Fumes  seemed  to  rise  from  his  mouth  to  his  brain,  leaving  him  with  an  extraordinary  sense  of  light-headedness.  Since  he  felt  himself  committed  to  this  discipline,  he  decided  to  think  of  these  symptoms  in  the  terms  of  travel.  He  would  observe  them  as  they  made  themselves  felt,  as  one  would  observe  from  the  windows  of  a  train  the  changes  in  geology  and  vegetation  in  a  strange  country.  As  the  day  changed  to  night,  the  country  through  which  he  travelled  seemed  mountainous  and  barren.  He  seemed  to  be  on  a  narrow-gauge  rail-  road  travelling  through  a  rocky  pass.  Nothing  but  thistles  and  wire  grass  grew " b"among  the  rocks.  He  reasoned  that  once  they  were  over  the  pass  they  would  come  onto  a  fertile  plain  with  trees  and  water,  but  when  the  train  rounded  a  turn  on  the  summit  of  the  mountain,  he  saw  that  what  lay  ahead  was  an  alkali  desert  scored  with  dry  stream  beds.  He  knew  that  if  he  smoked,  tobacco  would  irri-  gate  this  uninhabitable  place,  the  fields  would  bloom  with  flowers,  and  water  would  run  in  the  streams,  but  since  he  had  chosen  to  take  this  particular  jour-  ney,  since  it  was  quite  literally  an  escape  from  an  intolerable  condition,  he  settled  down  to  study  the  unrelieved  aridity.  When  he  made  himself  a  cocktail  in  his  apartment  that  night,  he  smiled-he  ac-  tually  smiled-to  observe  that  there  was  nothing  to  be  seen  in  the  ashtrays  but  a  little  dust  and  a  leaf  he  had  picked  off  his  shoe.  He  was  changing,  he  was  changing,  and  like  most  men  he  had  wanted  to  change,  it  seemed.  In  the  space  of  a  few  hours,  he  had  become  more  sagacious,  more  comprehensive,  more  mature.  He  seemed  to  feel  the  woolly  mantle  of  his  time  of  life  come  to  rest  on  his  shoulders.  He  felt  himself  to  be  gaining  some  un-  derstanding  of  the  poetry  of  the  force  of  change  in  life,  felt  himself  involved  in  one  of  those  intimate,  gruelling,  and  unseen  contests  that  make  up  the  story  of  a  man's  soul.  If  he  stopped  smoking,  he  might  stop  drinking.  He  might  even  curtail  his  erotic  tastes.  Immoderation  had  been  the  cause  of  his  divorce.  Im-  moderation  had  alienated  his  beloved  children.  If  they  could  only  see  him  now,  see  the  clean  ashtrays  in  his  room,  mightn't  they  invite  him  to  come  home?  He  could  charter  a  schooner  and  sail  up  the  coast  of  [REDACTED]  with  them.  When  he  went,  later  that  night,  to  see  his  mistress,  the  smell  of  tobacco  on  her  breath  made  her  seem  to  him  so  depraved  and  un-  clean  that  he  didn't  bother  to  take  off  his  clothes  and  went  home  early  to  his  bed  and  his  clean  ashtrays.  Bradish  had  never  had  any  occasion  to  experience  self-righteousness  other  than  the  self-righteousness  of  the  sinner.  His  censure  had  been  aimed  at  people  who  drank  clam  juice  and  cultivated  re-  strained  tastes.  Walking  to  work  the  next  morning,  he  found  himself  jock-  eyed  rudely  onto  the  side  of  the  angels;  found  himself  perforce  an  advocate  of  abstemiousness,  and  discovered  that  some  part  of  this  condition  was  an  involuntary  urge  to  judge  the  conduct  of  others-a  sensation  so  strange  to  him,  so  newly  found,  so  unlike  his  customary  point  of  view  that  he  thought  it  exciting.  He  watched  with  emphatic  disapproval  a  stranger  light  a  cigarette  on  a  street  cor-  ner.  The  stranger  plainly  had  no  will   power.  He  was  injuring  his  health,  trim-  ming  his  life  span,  and  betraying  his  dependents,  who  might  suffer  hunger  and  cold  as  a  result  of  this  self-indul-  gence.  What's  more,  the  man's  clothing  was  shabby,  his  shoes  were  unshined,  and  if  he  could  not  afford  to  dress  himself  decently  he  could  surely  not  afford  the  vice  of  tobacco.  Should  Bradish  take  the  cigarette  out  of  his  hand?  Lecture  him?  Awaken  him?  It  seemed  a  little  early  in  the  game,  but  the  impulse  was  there  and  he  had  never  experienced  it  before.  Now  he  walked  up  Fifth  [REDACTED]  with  his  newly  possessed  virtuousness,  looking  neither  at  the  sky  nor  at  the  pretty  women  but  instead  raking  the  popula-  tion  like  a  lieutenant  of  the  vice  squad  employed  to  seek  out  malefactors.  Oh,  there  were  so  many!  A  dishevelled  old  lady,  colorless  but  for  a  greasy  smear  of  crimson  lipstick,  stood  on  the  corner  of  Forty-fourth  Street,  lighting  one  cigarette  from  another.  Men  in  door-  ways,  girls  on  the  steps  of  the  library,  boys  in  the  park  all  seemed  determined  to  destroy  themselves.  His  light-headedness  continued  through  the  morning,  so  that  he  found  it  difficult  to  make  business  decisions,  and  there  was  some  definite  injury  to  his  eyesight.  He  felt  as  if  he  had  taken  his  eyes  through  a  dust  storm.  He  went  to  a  business  lunch  where  drinks  were  served,  and  when  someone  passed  him  a  cigarette  he  said,  &quot;Not  right  now,  thank  you.&quot;  He  blushed  with  self-righteous-  ness,  but  he  was  not  going  to  demean  his  struggle  by  confiding  in  anyone.  Having  abstained  triumphantly  for  nearly  twenty-four  hours,  he  thought  he  deserved  a  reward,  and  he  let  the  waiter  keep  filling  his  cocktail  glass.  In  the  end  he  drank  too  much,  and  when  he  got  back  to  his  office  he  was  staggering.  This,  on  top  of  his  disturbed  circulatory  system,  his  swollen  lips,  his  bleary  eyes,  the  stinging  sensation  in  his  right  foot,  and  the  feeling  that  his  brain  was  filled  with  the  fumes  and  the  malodorousness  of  an  old  burlesque  theatre  made  it  im-  possible  for  him  to  work,  and  he  floun-  dered  through  the  rest  of  the  day.  He  seldom  went  to  cocktail  parties,  but  he  went  to  one  that  afternoon,  hoping  that  it  would  distract  him.  He  definitely  felt  unlike  himself.  The  damage  by  this  time  had  reached  his  equilibrium,  and  he  " b"found  crossing  streets  difficult  and  haz-  ardous,  as  if  he  were  maneuvering  over  a  high  and  narrow  bridge.  The  party  was  large,  and  he  kept  go-  ing  to  the  bar.  He  thought  that  gin  would  quench  his  craving.  It  was  hard-  ly  a  craving,  he  noticed-nothing  like  hunger  or  thirst  or  the  need  for  love.  It  felt  like  some  sullen  and  stubborn  ebbing  in  his  bloodstream.  The  light-  ness  in  his  head  had  worsened.  He  laughed,  talked,  and  behaved  himself  up  to  a  point,  but  this  was  merely  mechan-  ical.  Late  in  the  party,  a  young  woman  wearing  a  light  sack  or  tube-shaped  dress,  her  long  hair  the  color  of  [REDACTED]  tobacco,  came  in  at  the  door.  In  his  ardor  to  reach  her  he  knocked  over  a  table  and  several  glasses.  It  was,  or  had  been  up  to  that  point,  a  decorous  party,  but  the  noise  of  broken  glass,  followed  by  the  screaming  of  the  stranger  when  he  wrapped  his  legs  around  her  and  buried  his  nose  in  her  tobacco-colored  hair,  were  barbarous.  Two  guests  pried  him  loose.  He  stood  there,  crouched  with  ardor,  snorting  through  his  distended  nostrils  Then  he  flung  away  the  arms  of  the  men  who  held  him  and  strode  out  of  the  room.  He  went  down  in  the  elevator  with  a  stranger  whose  brown  suit  looked  and  smelled  like  a  Havana  Upman,  but  Brad-  ish  kept  his  eyes  on  the  floor  of  the  car-  riage  and  contented  himself  with  breath-  ing  in  the  stranger's  fragrance.  The  elevator  man  smelled  of  a  light,  cheap  blend  that  had  been  popular  in  the  fifties.  The  doorman,  he  noticed,  looked  and  smelled  like  a  briar  pipe  with  a  Burley  mixture.  And  on  Fifty-seventh  Street  he  saw  a  woman  whose  hair  was  the  color  of  his  favorite  blend  and  who  seemed  to  trail  after  her  its  striking  and  corrupt  perfume.  Only  by  grinding  his  teeth  and  bracing  his  muscles  did  he  keep  from  seizing  her,  but  he  realized  that  his  behavior  at  the  party,  repeated  on  the  street,  would  take  him  to  jail,  and  there  were,  as  far  as  he  knew,  no  cigarettes  in  jail.  He  had  changed-he  had  changed,  and  so  had  his  world,  and  watching  the  population  of  the  city  pass  him  in  thedusk,  he  saw  them  as  Winstons,  Chesterfields,  Marlboros,  Salems,  hookahs,  meerschaums,  cigaril-  los,  Corona-Coronas,  Camels,  and  Play-  ers.  It  was  a  young  woman-really  a  child-whom  he  mistook  for  a  Lucky  Strike  that  was  his  undoing.  She  screamed  when  he  attacked  her,  and  two  strangers  knocked  him  down,  strik-  ing  and  kicking  him  with  just  moral  in-  dignation.  A  crowd  gathered.  There  was  pandemonium,  and  presently  the  sirens  of  the  police  car  that  took  him  away. "