 b"ON  a  fine  spring  morning  about  O  a  year  and  a  half  after  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War,  I  found  myself,  to  my  amazement,  weep-  ing  on  one  of  the  top  decks  of  the  Sa-  turnia,  an  aging  Italian  liner  that  was  about  to  sail  from  New  York  for  Na-  ples.  For  some  time,  I  had  been  placid-  ly  standing  up  there,  gazing  down  at  the  stern  of  the  ship,  where  my  fellow-  passengers  in  tourist  class  were  crowd-  ed  against  the  rails  waving  goodbye  to  the  friends  and  relatives  they  were  leav-  ing  behind.  Quite  a  few  of  those  mak-  ing  the  voyage  were  evidently  going  back  to  4974616c79  for  the  first  time  in  a  great  many  years,  and  they  were  excited  and  emotional.  The  air  was  full  of  large  white  handkerchiefs  and  brightly  colored  scarves,  fluttering  in  the  breeze  off  the  river  or  being  pressed  to  tear-stained  cheeks,  and  voices  of  grief  bridged  the  thin  strip  of  scummy  green  water  that  separated  us  from  the  pier  and  our  land.  But  why  was  Z  crying?  I  wasn't  one  of  these  people;  I  had  nothing  in  com-  mon  with  those  old  men  and  women  shouting  at  each  other  in  Neapolitan  and  Sicilian  dialects,  or  with  the  younger  ones,  the  gaudily  dressed  Italo-Ameri-  cans  on  their  way  over  to  have  a  first  look  at  &quot;the  old  country.&quot;  Although  I  am  half  Italian  and  had  spent  the  first  eight  years  of  my  life  in  4974616c79,  I  had  got  used  to  thinking  of  myself  as  an  Anglo-  Saxon.  I  was  going  back  to  4974616c79  only  because  I  had  what  I  thought  was  a  fine  lyric  tenor  voice  and  I  couldn't  afford  to  pay  ten  dollars  an  hour  to  train  it,  which  was  what  singing  teachers  were  getting  in  New  York  in  those  days.  I  had  been  told  that  4974616c79  was  very  cheap;  my  mother  had  given  me  a  thousand  dollars  to  supplement  the  monthly  bene-  fits  I  was  entitled  to  under  the  [REDACTED]  Bill,  and  I  was  going  to  Rome  to  be-  come,  if  not  a  Caruso,  at  least  a  John  McCormack.  My  motives  were  entire-  ly  practical  and  selfish.  But  as  I  stood  above  the  other  weepers  and  wept  my  own  peculiar  tears,  I  realized  dimly  that  it  wasn't  merely  empathy  I  was  feel-  ing.  It  was  entirely  possible  that  I  was  crying  because  I  had  been  shut  off  from     that  purely  Italian  world  on  the  deck  below  me,  and  because  I  had  never  wanted  or  tried  to  understand  it.  Sud-  denly  I  was  ashamed  of  the  thought  that  I  was  in  some  way  weeping  for  myself,  and,  as  theold  ship  honked  and  drifted  out  into  the  tidal  current,  I  dried  my  eyes  and  hurried  below.  The  Saturnia  had  been  a  hospital  ship  during  the  last  years  of  the  war  and  it  hadn't  yet  been  completely  reconverted  to  the  passenger  trade.  The  ship  was  full,  and  most  of  the  passengers  slept  in  tiered  bunks,  forty  or  fifty  to  acabin  area.  Children  ran  up  and  down  the  cor-  ridors  and  played  games  between  the  beds.  Luckily,  I  had  been  put  into  acab-  in  for  eight,  in  a  smaller  space  up  under  the  bow.  I  had  only  glimpsed  my  cabin-  mates  earlier,  when  I  had  stopped  in  just  long  enough  to  sling  a  bag  onto  an  upper  berth.  Now,  on  reentering  the  room,  I  was  glad  to  find  it  empty.  I  went  into  the  washroom  and  splashed  cold  water  on  my  face,  and  then  came  back  to  the  cabin  and  peered  out  of  an  open  port-  hole.  We  were  well  out  into  the  river  by  this  time  and  the  shoreline  was  slip-  ping  away  from  us.  I  stood  there  and  watched  the  ferries  and  lighters  and  the  sun  glinting  off  the  windows  of  skyscrapers  and  office  buildings.  New  York  is  a  fine  sight  from  a  distance,  I  thought-a  view  notwithout  glory.  When  I  finally  turned  away,  an  old  man  was  sitting  on  the  bunk  under-  neath  mine,  looking  at  me  withmild  curiosity.  &quot;We  are  out  to  sea  yet?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Come  and  look.&quot;  The  old  man  shook  his  head.  &quot;Why  should  I?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  will  come  and  look  when  there  is  nothing  to  see  any  more.&quot;  I  introduced  myself,  and  without  getting  up  the  old  man  shook  my  hand.  He  was  in  his  late  seventies,  I  guessed,  but  he  looked  in  wonderful  health.  His  cheeks  were  pink  and  the  flesh  of  his  face,  though  deeply  wrinkled,  was  firm.  His  eyes  were  alert,  and  his  hands  were  large  and  strong,  with  stubby  fingers  and  hard-looking  nails.  He  was  short;  as  he  sat  up  very  straight  on  the  bed,the  top  of  his  head  was  well  below  the  springs  of  my  bunk.  He  was  dressed  in  a  dark,  heavy  suit  with  a  vest,  and  his  black  shoes  gleamed  below  the  edge  of  his  trouser  cuffs.  His  shirt  was  slightly  worn  at  the  collar  and  his  bright-red  tie  was  tied  in  a  huge  knot  directly  beneath  a  rather  prominent  Adam's  apple.  A  few  wisps  of  long  gray  hair  stuck  out  from  under  a  dark-blue  beret  that  hugged  the  top  of  his  skull.  &quot;You  have  been  crying,&quot;  theold  man  said,  releasing  my  hand.  " b"&quot;No,  I  haven't,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;W  hat  makes  you  think  so?&quot;  &quot;Your  eyes  are  red.&quot;  I  looked  away  from  him,  embar-  rassed.  &quot;You  are  not  crying,  I  hope,  because  we  are  leaving  the  United  States  of  [REDACTED],&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;I  have  been  here  for  forty-seven  years  and  it  does  not  make  me  cry  to  leave  it.  Do  you  smoke?&quot;  He  produced  a  wrinkled  pack  of  cigarettes  from  his  pocket.  &quot;No,  thanks,&quot;  I  said,  glad  to  change  the  subject.  &quot;I  gave  it  up.  I'm  a  singer.  I  mean,  I'm  studying.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  a  singer,&quot;  the  old  man  said  and  nodded,  his  face  disappearing  temporar-  ily  behind  a  cloud  of  smoke.  &quot;W  hat  kind  of  singer?&quot;  &quot;It's  hard  to  tell  just  now.  I  think  I'm  a  temore  leggero,  but  my  voice  might  get  heavier  when  I  get  older  and  I  could  become  a  lirico  spinto  eventual-  ly,&quot;  I  answered  pompously.  The  old  man  nodded  again.  &quot;You  are  not  Italian?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I'm  half  Italian.  My  mother  was  born  in  Rome.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  in  Rome,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  'T  hat  is  why  you  are  going  to  4974616c79  to  study.&quot;  &quot;One  of  the  reasons.&quot;  &quot;I  have  never  been  to  Rome,&quot;  the  old  man  said,  &quot;It  must  be  very  beauti-  ful.  I  am  from  the  Abruzzi.  You  know  where  is  the  Abruzzi?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98tYeS,,,  &quot;The  Abruzzi  is  the  most  beautiful part  of  4974616c79,&quot;  the  old  man  said,  &quot;but  it  is  very  poor.  That  is  why  I  left  it  to  come  to  [REDACTED].  In  [REDACTED]  there  is  work.  I  worked,  caro  mio.  But  now  I  am  going  home.  I  am  going  home  to  spend  the  rest  of  my  life  in  the  Abruzzi.  I  have  a  brother  there.&quot;  Sitting  in  the  cabin,  on  our  way  out  to  sea,  the  old  man  smoked  one  ciga-  rette  after  another  and  told  me  thestory  of  his  life.  He  had  married  in  [REDACTED],  but  his  wife  was  dead,  and  his  children,  556e6974656420537461746573ns  to  the  bone,  had  all  married  and  gone  off  to  live  elsewhere,  in  towns  and  cities  with  strange  names  where  the  old  man  had  never  been  and  had  never  hadany  desire  to  go.  He  thought  he  would  miss  his  grandchildren,  but  he  felt  that  they  would  soon  forget  himand  that  his  own  children,  wrapped  up  in  their  own  lives,  were  glad  to  see  him  go,  because  advanced  age  was  threat-  ening  to  make  him  a  worry  to  them.  He  hadn't  seen  the  older  brother  he  had  left  behind  in  the  Abruzzi  since  they  were  both  young  men,  but  they  had  written  each  other  faithfully  and  their  love  was  the  only  thing,  I  gath-  ered,  that  seemed  real  to  him  any  more.  The  brother,  too,  was  alone  now,  and  theold  men  were  planning  to  become  dust  together,  in  their  own  good  time,  in  their  own  house  and  on  their  own  soil.  I  was  grateful  for  theold  man's  con-  versation,  mainly  because  he  took  my  mind  off  myself.  I  didn't  know  why  he  was  telling  me  his  life  history,  but  I  sensed  that  he  was  deeply  troubled  by  this  departure.  Later,  after  he  had  fin-  ished  telling  me  about  his  mountain  vil-  lage  in  the  Abruzzi,  he  took  a  flat  gold  watch  out  of  his  vest  pocket  and  looked  angrily  at  it.  &quot;Where  are  we  now?&quot;  he  asked.  I  walked  over  to  the  porthole.  &quot;We're  pastthe  Narrows,  I  think,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Let's  go  up  on  deck.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;I  will  go  up  when  we  are  really  away  from  here.&quot;  He  sank  back  against  his  pillow  and  stretched  out  on  the  bed.  &quot;I  will  go  later,  after  we  eat.&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  like  [REDACTED],  I  gather.&quot;  &quot;I  liked  to  work,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;'There  was  work.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  do?&quot;  &quot;I  did  several  things,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  shined  shoes,  I  cut  hair,  I  worked  in  a  restaurant.  I  did  this  and  that.  I  saved  my  money.  I  had  a  store,  too.  And  I  sold  it.  And  I  saved  the  money  from  the  selling  of  the  store.&quot;  He  gazed  calmly  up  at  the  springs  of  the  bunk  above  him.  &quot;My  brother  couldn't  be-  lieve  all  the  things  I  did,  and  sometimes  I  also  wondered.  But  there  was  always  work,  even  in  bad  times,  for  one  who  looked.  You  didn't  know  about  such  things,  caro  mio.  You  did  not  know  the  Abruzzi.  Your  people  were  signori.  Not  rich,  maybe,  but  signori.I  can  tell.&quot;  &quot;My  father  losthis  money  in  the  de-  pression,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  I  don't  remem-  ber  ever  being  hard  up.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  theold  man  said.  &quot;When  " b"you  came  downtown  to  Mulberry  Street,  you  came  as  a  turiste.  Is  that  not  so?&quot;  I  admitted  that  was  so.  &quot;In  4974616c79,  when  your  people  came  to  the  Abruzzi  they  came  as  tfuristi,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;In  [REDACTED],  at  least  there  is  work.&quot;  I  SAW  a  great  deal  of  the  old  man  during  the  trip  over.  We  ate  at  the  same  table,  and  after  meals  we  would  usually  take  a  turn  around  the  deck  to-  gether.  Often  I  would  pass  him  in  one  of  the  lounges  and  we  would  never  fail  to  nod  politely  to  each  other.  He  seemed  to  have  no  interests,  and  I  never  saw  him  pick  up  a  book  or  even  a  magazine.  Though  the  other  occupants  of  our  cabin-two  waiters,  three  students,  and  a  priest-were  a  talkative  lot,  the  old  man  remained  aloof  from  all  discus-  sions.  He  took  no  part  in  any  of  the  planned  activities  on  board,  preferring  to  sit  off  by  himself,  usually  in  a  corner,  his  hands  flat  against  his  thighs,  the  stubby  fingers  resting  on  his  knees,  his  eyes  roving  disinterestedly  about  the  room.  Whenever  the  forced  gaiety  of  shipboard  companionship  threatened  to  include  him,  or  the  noise  of  the  young  at  play  battered  at  the  edges  of  his  self-containment,  he  would  rise  and  move  away  to  some  more  peaceful  area.  Hardly  anyone  spoke  to  him,  and  I  seemed  to  be  his  only  friend,  though  I  couldn't  imagine  why  he  had  singled  me  out.   He  frequently  seemed  tense  and  preoccupied,  and  I  soon  guessed  it  was  because  he  was  carrying  all  the  money  that  he  had  saved  in  his  forty-seven  years  of  hard  work.  I  was  sure  he  wore  a  money  belt,  but  I  never  actually  found  out.  The  old  man  never  removed  a  sin-  gle  article  of  clothing  in  my  presence.  He  would  lie  down  fully  dressed  on  his  bunk  and  sleep  on  his  back  under  a  single  blanket.  The  points  of  his  worn  black  shoesstuck  out  from  underneath  the  blanket,  and  sometimes,  when  I  peeked  down  at  him,  I'd  see  his  small  brown  eyes  staring  straight  up  at  me,  unwinkingly  intense.  In  the  mornings,  he  got  up  very  early  and  padded  noiselessly  to  the  bathroom,  where  he  locked  himself  in  for  twenty  minutes  and  washed,  emerging  as  be-  fore,  with  every  article  of  clothing,  including  the  beret,  in  its  proper  place.  Late  one  eve-  ning,  when  I  suggested  that  he  might  be  more  comfortable  if  he  removed  his  jacket  before  going  to  bed,  he  snorted  and  then  whipped  his  gold  watch  out  of  his  pocket,  dangling  it  in  the  air  before  me  like  a  pen-  dulum.  &quot;You  see  this  watch,  huh?  You  remember  this  watch,  huh?&quot;  he  said,  his  eyes  glittering  with  rage.  &quot;I  buy  this  watch  two  days  before  I  leave  [REDACTED].  It  is  a  pres-  ent  I  make  to  myself  after  so  many  years.  That  jeweller,  he  finds  out  I  am  leaving.  Like  a  fool,  in  my  happiness  I  tell  him  I  am  leaving.  So  you  know  what?  That  watch,  she  stops  the  second  day  after  we  leave!  What  you  think  of  that,  huh?  That's  what  I  call  honest,  huh?  That  jeweller  is  acrook,  like  everyone  is  a  crook!  That's  what  I  know,  cero  mio!  The  world  is  full  of  gallant  gentle-  men!&quot;  No  one  could  understand  my  friend-  ship  for  the  old  man,  and  I  wasn't  too  sure  about  it  myself  at  first.  It  was  as  if  we  shared  a  secret,  but  neither  ofus  knew  what  that  secret  was.  Of  course,  he  did  help  me  with  my  Italian;  I  spent  a  great  deal  of  time  wrestling  with  the  language.  I  had  grown  up  in  [REDACTED]  listening  to  my  mother  and  my  grand-  mother  speak  Italian  around  the  house  and  feeling  perfectly  secure  in  the  aura  of  my  once  perfect  knowledge  of  it,  but  now,  dumped  into  a  world  of  casual  " b"everyday  conversation,  I  discovered  I  couldn't  really  speak  it  at  all.  I  stumbled  over  words  and  groped  blindly  for  them  with  a  tongue  grown  suddenly  huge  and  clumsy,  and  could  only  produce,  through  stiff  lips,  the  half-paralyzed,  comical  mumblings  of  any  raw  tourist.  My  chief  embarrassment  was  an  inabil-  ity  to  address  anyone  except  in  the  in-  timacy  of  the  second  person  singular-  the  &quot;#&quot;  that  is  always  reserved  for  fam-  ily  and  friends  of  more  than  one  day's  standing.  The  old  man  helped  me  make  the  transition  to  &quot;wo?&quot;  (though  I  was  to  discover  later  that  this  form  is  consid-  ered  vulgar  and  that  the  third  person  singular,  &quot;et,&quot;  is  much  more  suitable),  and  he  patiently  corrected  my  worst  blunders.  After  too  many  of  these,  I  would  sneak  away  by  myself  and  pace  the  top  deck  of  the  ship,  ducking  around  lifeboats  as  I  doggedly  plowed  through  pronoun  declensions  and  conjugated  verbs  at  the  top  of  my  lungs  above  the  wind  off  the  sea.  I  was  a  chastened  556e6974656420537461746573n  Demosthenes,  grinding  words  like  pebbles  on  my  tongue  and  shamed  by  my  own  ignorance.  But  the  old  man  never  made  fun  of  me,  and  I  was  grateful  to  him.  The  whole  trip,  in  fact,  was  full  of  humiliations.  I  was  one  of  seven  tenors  on  board  and  the  only  one,  it  turned  out,  who  couldn't  sing  a  note.  I  know  that  I'll  never  forget  the  expression  on  the  face  of  the  corpulent  opera  enthu-  siast  in  the  main  lounge,  a  fishmonger  from  Queens,  who  could  play  entire  scores  from  memory  on  the  upright  piano  and  who  forced  me  one  afternoon  to  embark  on  an  aria  from  &quot;'Tosca.&quot;  When  I  cracked  the  first  high  note,  he  blanched,  stopped  playing,  and  left  the  room,  shaking  his  head.  No  one  asked  me  to  sing  after  that,  and  in  the  eve-  nings  I  had  to  sit  and  listen  to  the  other  tenors  sing  at  informal  musicales.  One  of  them  was  a  celebrity,  a  white-maned  lion  from  the  golden  age  of  the  Met.  He  didn't  sing  much,  either,  but  he  was  always  present;  he  sat  off  to  one  side,  making  snide  remarks  about  the  young-  er  men,  who  would  stand  braced  against  the  rolling  of  the  ship,  bounc-  ing  high  notes  off  the  ceiling.  &quot;What  dogs,  what  dogs!&quot;  I  heard  the  lion  con-  fide  to  an  acquaintance  one  night  as  the  younger  men  came  and  went,  full-  throatedly  seeking  applause.  Still,  the  lion's  remarks  were  not  much  comfort  to  me,  the  worst  dog  of  all,  and  it  was  at  that  moment  that  the  old  man,  sitting  stolidly  beside  me,  tugged  gently  at  my  sleeve.  &quot;He  is  right,  they  are  all  dogs,&quot;  he  whispered.  &quot;They  sing  before  they  have  learned  how.  Let  us  goup  for  some  air  orthey  will  make  me  vomit.&quot; Quite  apart  from  the  old  man's  un-  failing  support,  there  was  a  quality  in  him  I  responded  to-something  fierce,  something  grimly  constant  under  the  surface  stolidity,  the  indifference,  the  calm.  Also,  he  was  my  first  real  link  with  an  old  world  I  had  shut  out  in  the  years  of  growing  up  in  [REDACTED].  I  tried  to  imagine  him  as  a  young  man,  getting  off  the  boat  around  1900,  clutching  a  worn  suitcase  full  ofclothesthat  had  probably  begun  to  smell  from  the cheeses  and  sausages  his  relatives  in  the  Abruzzi  had  lovingly  packed  away  for  him.  I  could  see  him  standing  on  the  pier  while  the  customs  authorities  coldly  and  efficiently  stripped  him  of  his  cheeses  and  his  sausages.  'The  noises  and  gray  colors  of  the  strange  city  into  which  he  was  about  to  disappear  must  have  been  hard  and  menacing,  and  the  visions  and  sounds  of  his  village  in  the  Abruzzi  already  terribly  distant  to  him  in  the  light  of  this  new  reality.  And  in  the  forty-seven  years  since  that  day,  he  had  been  preparing  for  his  death,  working  like  a  mole  under  the  concrete  city,  while  his  relatives  in  the  Abruzzi  died  off  one  by  one,  and  his  children,  speaking  only  the  new  language  of  the  hostile  concrete  world,  grew  up  around  him  and  then  went  their  own  ways.  I  wondered  what  his  meeting  with  his  " b"brother  would  be  like  and  whether  the  two  old  men  would  recognize  in  each  other  the  faces  of  their  youth.  I  remem-  bered  reading  a  newspaper  story  some  years  before  about  an  old  peasant  go-  ing  back  to  his  village  and  being  met  there  by  the  wife  he  had  left  behind  half  a  century  before.  &quot;Hello,  my  hus-  band,  I  knew  you  wouldcome  home,&quot;  the  wife  had  said.  &quot;As  you  can  see,I  have  waited  for  you.&quot;  N  the  dining  room,  the  old  man  and  I  sat  across  from  one  of  the  other  men  in  our  cabin.  His  name  was  Marco  and  he  was  in  his  forties,  He  had  a  lean,  hungry,  furrowed  face,  with  black  eyes  and  a  mouth  that  twisted  slightly  at  the  corners,  whether  smiling  or  not,  as  if  it  had  never  tasted  anything  to  its  liking.  He  was  an  intellectual,  original-  ly  from  the  Veneto,  and  he  had  a  tongue  that  was  quick  toridicule  and  censure.  He  had  spent  fifteen  years  in  [REDACTED],  had  become  a  citizen,  and  had  served  in  the  Army  during  the  war.  Since  then,  he  had  been  lucratively  employed  as  a  headwaiter  in  a  well-known  East  Side  bistro,  and  he  told  us  that  he  had  been  able  to  savea  lot  of  money  in  a  very  short  time,  owing  mostly  to  the  amount  of  undeclared  income  in  tips  he  had  regularly  stashed  away.  Neverthe-  less,  he  seemed  to  have  enjoyed  none  of  his  experiences  and  to  have  liked  noth-  ing  about  the  country  in  which  he  had  taken  refuge.  However,  I  soon  real-  ized  that  his  cynicism  embraced  the  whole  world,  not  merely  his  adopted  land,  and  that  he  flavored  his  bitterness  with  a  sharp  wit.  I  spent  a  good  deal  of  time  latighing  at  his  gossipy  stories  and  I  took  nothing  he  said  very  seriously.  I  did  notice  that  he  and  the  old  man  rarely  spoke  to  each  other,  but  this  didn't  strike  me  as  odd,  because  the  old  man  hardly  spoke  to  anyone.  At  lunch  one  day,  Marco,  who  had  been  toying  with  his  food,  suddenly  looked  up  from  his  plate  and  smiled  maliciously  at  the  old  man.  &quot;Well,  it  won't  be  long  now,  eh?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'Three  days  and  we'll  be  in  Naples.  What  do  you  think  of  that?&quot;  The  old  man  did  not  answer.  He  didn't  seem  to  realize  that  Marco  had  aimed  the  question  at  him,  and  hecon-  tinued  imperturbably  to  eat,  keeping  his  chin  an  inchor  so  over  his  plate  and  cramming  forkfuls  of  paste  into  his  mouth.  &quot;I  think  it's  great,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'm  get-  ting  pretty  excited,  in  fact.&quot;  Marco  ignored  me  and  continued  to  stareat  the  old  man.  &quot;And  you?  How  do  you  feel,  eh?&quot;  he  said.  The  old  man  looked  up  at  him.  &quot;How  should  I  feel?&quot;  &quot;Forty-seven  years  is  a  long  time,&quot;  Marco  said.  &quot;What  do  you  know  of  4974616c79  since  then,  since  the  war?&quot;  &quot;What  should  I  know?&quot;  the  old  man  asked.  &quot;What  is  there  to  know?&quot;  &quot;You  think  it's  going  to  be  like  it  was,  eh?  No  changes.  Just  the  same.&quot;  Marco  leaned  back  in  his  chair  and  crossed  his  arms,  then  he  winked  at  me.  &quot;Look  at  him,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He  has  no  idea.&quot;  The  old  man  merely  grunted  and  returned  to  his  food,  &quot;Well,  of  course  there  must  have  been  changes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  then,  there  was  the  war.&quot;  Marco  laughed.  '&quot;Tell  that  to  him,&quot;  he  said,  indicating  the  old  man.  &quot;Have  you  triedto  tell  that  to  him?&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  hee&quot;  &quot;But  of  course  he  doesn't  realize  it,&quot;  Marco  continued.  &quot;You  know  how  he  sees  his  precious  village  in  the  Abruzzi?  I'll  tell  you.  It  is  a  little  paradise  perched  on  a  mountaintop.  Below,  there  is  a  beautiful  green  valley  full  of  sheep  grazing  and  flowers  and  girls  picking  the  flowers.  Gentle  winds  blow  down  the  streets  of  his  village.  The  people  of  the  village  are  all  young  and  smiling  and  handsome.  There  is  good  wine  to  drink  and  a  lot  to  eat.  No  radio,  no  automobiles,  no  noise.  In  the  eve-  nings,  the  men  gather  at  the  caf\xc3\xa9  in  the  piazza  and  there  is  much  good  serious  talk.  Oh,  it  is  a  splendid  life  and  a  splen-  did  village  he  lives  in,  all  right!&quot;  I  glanced  at  the  old  man,  but  he  simply  went  on  eating,  betraying  not  a  flicker  of  emotion.  &quot;I  think  he  knows  about  his  village,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He  has  a  brother  there  and  they've  been  writing  to  each  other.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  sure,&quot;  Marco  said.  &quot;They  all  have  a  brother  they  write  to.  Or  a  cousin  or  a  wife  or  an  uncle-someone  who  writes  them  back  and  tells  them  how  it  is.  They  know,  all  right.  You  know  what  they're  saying  now  in  his  village?  That  the  rich  556e6974656420537461746573n  is  coming  home.  That's  how  they  call  him  now  back  in  his  village-'Pameri-  cano.  He'll  get  a  big  welcome,  he  will.  The  whole  town  will  turn  out,  palms  up.  You  know  that  big  trunk  I  have  " b"   in  the  cabin?  It'sfull  of  sugar  and  chocolate  and  nylons.  But  with  me,  buddy,  it's  a  two-way  traffic.  I  bring  in  the  goods  and  the  old  folks  fork  out  the  lire.  With  him,  it'll  be  different.  He'll  give  a  little  here  and  a  little  there.  Soon  he'll  be  what  he  was  forty-seven  years  ago-broke.  You  know  what  he'll  find?  A  dusty  lttle  town  full  of  old  people  and  children  in  rags  and  a  lot  of  poor,  all  begging  for  something.  If  there  is  a  town.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  &quot;If  the  war  didn't  blow  it  away.&quot;  Marco  laughed  again.  &quot;Look  at  him!  A  year  from  now,  he'll  be  sitting  in  the  piazza  of  his  town  wondering  where  his  money  went,  and  he'll  be  full  of  hate  for  everything  Italian.  I've  seen  it  before,  many  times.  I've  seen  it  in  my  own  town,  and  we're  not  as  miserable  as  they  are  in  the  Abruzzi.  And  that  was  be-  fore  the  war,  when  Mussolini  had  everything  running  on  time  and  there  was  work  for  some.  Imagine  it  now!  He'll  become  more  556e6974656420537461746573n  than  Un-  cle  Sam,  and  all  he'll  do  is  talk  about  how  it  was  back  in  the  States.  But  by  that  time  nobody's  listening,  see,  because  the  dollars  are  all  gone.&quot;  &quot;Knock  it  off,  Marco,&quot;  I  said,  an-  noyed.  &quot;Let  him  talk,&quot;  the  old  man  said  quietly.  &quot;He  likes  to  talk.&quot;  Marco  again  leaned  forward  over  the  table  toward  the  old  man.  &quot;Your  4974616c79,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;that  4974616c79  you  dream  about  and  talk  about-it's  gone.  You  know  where  it  exists&quot;  Back  on  Mul-  berry  Street,  old  man-that's  where.  The  4974616c79  of  fifty  years  ago,  that's  where  it  is.  Back  on  Mulberry  Street,  not  where  you  think  it  is.&quot;  &quot;I  am  anxious  to  see  my  brother,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;I  do  not  dream  of  paradise.&quot;  &quot;'Your  brother?  Forty-seven  years  of  work  to  go  home  and  see  your  broth-  er?  What  did  you  get  out  of  the  States,  eh?&quot;  Marco  said.  &quot;I  at  least  made  money,  but  what  did  you  get?&quot;  The  old  man  shrugged.  &quot;Get?  I  got  what  I  could.&quot;  &quot;And  all  you  ever  thought  about  was  the  day  you'd  go  home.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  the  old  man  said,  putting  his  hands  flat  against  the  table  and  pushing  himself  to  his  feet.  &quot;I  don't  know,  but  I  tell  you  this,  Marco-  I  don't  spit  in  the  plate  where  I  eat.&quot;  After  the  old  man  had  gone,  I  asked  Marco  why  he  had  been  so  hard  on  him.  &quot;I  can't  stand  these  old  peasants,&quot;  Marco  said.  &quot;They  never  learn;  it's  always  the  same  for  them.  Wait  till  you  travel  some  in  4974616c79.  Every  town  you  go  into,  especially  in  the  south  and  in  4974616c79,  you'll  find  these  old  men.  They'll  come  up  to  you  and  introduce  themselves  and  they'll  be  wearing  the  last  of  their  556e6974656420537461746573n  clothes.  They'll  say,  'Hey,  you  from  the  States?,&quot;  and  then  they'll  tell  you  about  how  it  was  for  them  in  [REDACTED]  or  the  Bronx  or  Elmira  or  someplace.  You'll  see.&quot;  When  I  went  back  to  our  cabin  after  lunch,  the  old  man  was  lying  on  the  bed.  His  eyes  were  closed  and  I  thought  he  was  asleep,  but  suddenly  he  said,  &quot;That  Marco,  he  thinks  my  life  it  means  nothing,  that  it  is  all  foolish,  all  waste.  But  what  has  he  done  with  his  life?  Nothing.  He  brings  back  choco-  late  and  sugar  to  sell,  that's  all  this  means  to  him.  Many  Italians  are  like  that,  and  I  know  many  people  in  the  States  like  Marco.  There  is  no  monop-  oly  on  them.  'They  make  useof  people  like  me.  So  what?  The  world  is  full  of  gallant  gentlemen  like  Marco,  caro  mio.  I  don't  pay  attention  to  them.  They  are  dirt.&quot;  HE  last  time  I  saw  the  old  man  was  on  the  pier  in  Naples.  I  had  lost  track  of  him  on  the  morning  of  our  arrival,  partly  because  I  was  wild  with  excitement  and  too  busy  with  my  own  concerns.  I  had  been  among  the  last  to  get  off  the  ship,  owing  to  a  missing  suitcase,  and  I  had  just  finished  going  through  customs  and  was  on  my  way  to  a  taxi  when  I  spotted  him.  He  was  sitting  in  the  middle  of  the  pier  on  the  edge  of  his  trunk,  his  hands  resting  on  the  handle  of  an  ancient  black  umbrella,  the  expression  on  his  face  as  stolid  as  ever.  I  went  over  to  him  to  say  good-  bye  and  wish  him  luck.  We  shook  hands.  &quot;What  are  you  waiting  for?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Can  I  help?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;I  am  wait-  ing  for  my  brother.&quot;  He  reached  into  his  pocket,  took  out  the  gold  watch,  and  handed  it  to  me.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  wish  to  give  this  to  you,  even  ifit  doesn't  go,  I  bought  it  from  a  gallant  gentleman.&quot;  &quot;You  could  have  it  fixed,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What  for?&quot;  the  old  man  answered.  &quot;Now  there  is  time  enough.&quot;  "