 b"HE  was  a  married  man,  but  his  H  wife,  an  American,  had  left  him  in  Florence  to  go  and  visit  her  mother,  who  was  ill  in  [REDACTED].  To  friends  and  relatives  asking  how  long  she  would  be  away  she  had  said  a  month  or  two;  to  him-perhaps  more  seriously  than  he  thought  at  the  time-that  she  would  not  come  back.  It  was  three  months  now  since  she  had  left.  He  had  received  two  letters  from  her,  about  her  mother  and  their  baby  daughter,  whom  she  had  taken  with  her,  but  never  a  word  about  returning.  Little  by  little,  he  had  reverted  to  a  bachelor's  life,  using  the  kitchen  of  his  apartment  on  the  Arno  'J  only  to  make  coffee  and  going  out  for  meals.  It  was  neighborhood  restaurants  he  went  toat  first-small,  half-empty  places,  where  he  ate  alone.  For  a  time,  he  avoided  the  artists'  haunts  where  there  were  many  more  customers  than  tables  and  still  one  always  found  a  seat.  Going  back  to  those  would  have  been  like  going  back  to  his  unmarried  years,  and  going  back-whether  it  was  to  a  place  or  a  condition-always  seemed  a  little  sad.  Yet  soon  he  found  the  neigh-  borhood  restaurants  almost  as  depress-  ing  as  his  kitchen,  and  one  evening  he  went  to  a  restaurant  that  was  currently  the  town's  most  popular  with  artists.  )  There  were  no  vacant  tables.  At  one,  a  dishevelled,  buxom  girl  in  a  flannel  shirt  was  sitting  Her  glass  was  empty;  so  &quot;May  I  offer  you  some  wine?&quot;  he  said  in  Eng-  lish,  after  the  waiter  had  brought  him  half  a  litre.  &quot;Why?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Your  glass  is  empty.&quot;  (&lt;\xe2\x80\x9c7'hyP  \xc2\xbb\xc2\xbb  He  looked  at  her.  Was  she  crazy?  Drunk?  &quot;You  can  only  ask  'why?&quot;  a  few  times,  and  soon  you  find  no  an-  swer,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Why?&quot;  she  said,  emptying  her  glass.  Not  crazy,he  thought-drunk.  Not  sober,  anyway.  Gradually,  he  was  able  to  get  a  few  more  words  out  of  her-words  like  &quot;all  right&quot;  and  &quot;no&quot;  and  &quot;yes&quot;-and  by  the  end  of  the  meal  a  whole  sentence:  &quot;If  you  are  nice,  I'll  take  you  to  the  villa.&quot;  &quot;What  villa?&quot;  &quot;Where  my  friends  live,  and  I  some-  times.  They're  artists.&quot;  They  left  together.  &quot;Let's  go  and  have  a  cup  of  coffee,&quot;  he  said  outside  the  restaurant.  &quot;'There's  a  caf\xc3\xa9.&quot;  But  she  would  have  no  coffee.  She  took  him  by  the  hand  and  led  him  to  a     little  wineshop.  The  man  there  knew  her  and  liked  her.  And  really  it  was  hard  not  to-she  lookedkind  and  good,  broad,  Franciscan.  And  she  was  terribly  young-twenty,  perhaps  twenty-one.  &quot;I  have  a  car,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Come,  let's  drive  to  the  villa.&quot;  On  their  way  to  the  car  they  met  a  hunchback.  She  embraced  him.  The  scrawny  litle  man  seemed  over-  whelmed.  He  kissed  her  fingers  as  though  she  were  his  savior.  &quot;He  plays  the  guitar  at  the  trattoria,&quot;  she  said.  They  reached  the  car.  Up  the  river  and  out  of  town  they  went,  he  following  her  directions  and  wondering  where  they  would  end  up.  Probably  nowhere,  he  thought;  she  has  drunk  too  much  wine  to  know  the  way.  But  she  hadn't.  Without  missing  a  turn,she  led  him  to  the  villa-an  old,  long  house  on  a  hill,  quite  isolated.  &quot;Oh,  J.  J.,&quot;  a  tall  young  man  said,  opening  the  door.  His  hair,  which  was  red,  curled  upward  from  his  head  like  flames.  He  had  the  calm,  serious  look  of  an  Indian  chief.  Inside,  in  a  large,  half-darkened  room,  a  girl  almost  as  buxom  as  J.  J.,  but  sober  and  firmer,  greeted  them  without  getting  up  from  a  chair.  From  the  far  side  of  the  room  came  the  notes  of  a  hillbilly  song  played  on  a  guitar  by  another  tall  young  man,  blond  and  with  a  mus-  tache.  Now  and  then  he  ran  a  few  words  of  song  into  the  music.  [REDACTED]  was  all  right,  the  song  went,  so-  were.  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  and  New  York,  but  none  could  compare  with  Abilene.  He  was  offered  a  glass  of  red  wine  in  an  old  cup,  all  chipped  along  the  rim.  The  red-haired  boy  and  the  buxom  girl  showed  him  their  paintings.  They  were  so  pleased  with  his  comments  that  they  ran  what  they  called  a  &quot;movie&quot;  for  him.  The  boy  unwound  a  roll  of  paper  on  which  he  had  drawn  the  progress  of  a  horse  and  carriage.  He  passed  it  in  front  of  a  candle.  The  girl  wound  it  onto  another  roll.  The  guitarist  accompanied  the  movement,  now  quick,  now  slow.  It  lasted  about  three  minutes.  At  the  end,  he-the  only  spectator  apart  from  J.  J.-applauded.  It  was  past  eleven  o'clock,  but  not  too  late  for  callers.  An  emaciated-look-  ing  man  in  his  late  forties  came,  then  a  couple-Bruno,  an  agile  young  man  in  asuede  windbreaker,  and  Beryl,  a  girl  in  a  neat  suit,  with  her  hair  done  up.  They  had  been  working  till  late-  Bruno  at  a  newspaper,  the  girl  teach-     " b"ing-and  they  had  come  to  savor  the  atmosphere.  They  were  spectators,  like  himself.  Around  one  o'clock,  he  left  with  J.  J.,  who  said  she  wanted  to  sleep  downtown,  and  the  middle-aged  man.  &quot;Stop!&quot;  this  man  yelled  to  him  as  he  backed  the  car  toward  a  wall,  a  safe  distance  away.  &quot;'You  don't  know  how  to  drive!&quot;  he  shouted  in  a  very  loud  voice  a  minute  later,  on  the  road.  &quot;What  have  I  done?&quot;  &quot;Drive  with  both  hands,&quot;  he  said.  After  that,  sensing  madness  in  the  man,  he  drove  slowly  and  took  care  to  keep  both  hands  on  the  steering  wheel.  &quot;Where  can  I  drop  you?&quot;  he  asked,  as  they  reached  town.  &quot;Oh,  I  am  going  to  buyyou  a  drink,&quot;  the  man  said,  his  mood  improved  by  the  three  miles  of  careful  driving.  They  went  to  a  brightly  lit  caf\xc3\xa9  near  the  center  of  town.  J.J.  was  well  known  there.  Suddenly,  as  they  were  talking,  a  rough,  brawny  man  came  over  to  the  table  and  looked  at  him  fiercely,  aggressively.  He  was  J.  J.'s  boy  friend,  a  local  character.  He  left  her  with  the  boy  friend  and  went  home.  He  met  the  crowd  again-the  whole  crowd,  plus  a  few  others-two  or  three  nights  later,  at  the  restaurant  favored  by  artists.  Again  he  went  to  the  villa.  J.  J.,  he  found,  supported  nearly  all  of  them.  She  paid  the  rent  for  the  villa  and  for  a  studio  in  town.  Her  father  was  an  American  millionaire.  Her  boy  friend  had  recently  owned  a  restaurant  and  had  gone  broke  because  he  gave  too  many  free  meals  to  his  friends.  The  blond  guitar  player  had  left  Harvard,  after  his  third  year.  The  red-haired  boy  and  the  buxom  girl  lived  together,  al-  most  man  and  wife.  Again  he  left  around  one  o'clock.  A  girl  drove  with  him,  a  very  sleepy  girl,  almost  inarticulate,  in  blue  jeans  and  a  fluffy  sweater.  Nearing  his  home,  he  asked  her  if  she  would  like  to  come  up  and  have  a  cup  of  coffee  with  him,  but  she  told  him  that  she  was  engaged.  &quot;I  write  to  him  twice  a  day,&quot;  she  said.  He  saw  one  or  another  of  the  crowd  quite  often  from  then  on,  and  once  he  invited  them  all  to  lunch  in  his  apart-  ment.  But  the  girls  he  liked  liked  some-  one  else  better.  He  wished  he  could  find  someone  unattached.  FOR  lunch,  he  began  going  to  a  modern,  busy  pizzeria.  One  day,  a  slim  girl  with  an  oval  face,  large  eyes,  and  hair  streaming  halfway  down  her  back  was  sitting  a  few  seats  away  from  him  at  the  counter.  Though  this  place  wasn't  especially  frequented  by  artists,  she  must  beone,  he  thought.  She  looked " b" it.  The  next  day,  he  happened  to  glance  up  toward  the  counter  from  a  table,  and  there  she  was  again,  sitting  where  she  had  sat  before.  Even  without  seeing  her  face,  it  was  easy  to  recognize  her  from  her  long  brown  hair.  It  covered  her  shoulders  like  a  shawl.  On  the  way  out,  from  the  door,  he  looked  at  her  again.  Perhaps  she  came  here  every  day.  Now  he  must,  too.  He  didn't  see  her  therethe  next  day,  or  the  day  after.  But  on  the  afternoon  of  that  second  day,  while  he  was  sitting  in  an  armchair  at  the  U.S.I.S.  library  read-  ing  a  magazine,  she  came  in.  Sleek,  in  tight  black  trousers  and  black  sweater,  she  picked  up  a  copy  ofthe  New  York  Times,  and,  without  looking  at  him,  sat  in  an  armchair  opposite.  The  printed  page  blurred  under  his  eyes,  the  words  wandering  as  though  he  couldn't  hold  them.  He  must  talk  to  her.  He  must  say  something,  now  that  chance-its  magic  hand-had  led  them  here.  She  read  with  unremitting  attention,  minute  after  minute.  If  she  would  only  pause,  stop  for  a  moment.  But  no,  she  just  read  on;  sometimes  she  turned  a  page.  He  didn't  want  to  interrupt  her,  but  at  last  it  seemed  to  him  that  he  had  to.  &quot;We  were  at  the  same  restaurant  a  few  days  ago,&quot;  he  said.  She  didn't  look  up,  though  it  was  clear  he  was  talking  to  her-there  was  no  one  else  close  by.  At  last,  she  did.  &quot;At  the  pizza  place  near  SanLoren-  70,\xe2\x80\x9d  ie  added.  Well,  what  of  it,  herglance  seemed  to  say.  'Yes,&quot;  she  answered.  &quot;Are  you  a  painter?&quot;he  asked.  She  nodded  without  looking  at  him,  then  went  back  to  her  paper.  His  gaze  froze  on  the  magazine.  After  two  minutes,  he  rose.  \xe2\x80\x9cGoodbye,\xe2\x80\x9d  he  said,  going  past  her.  She  didn't  an-  swer.  She  just  continued  reading,  and  he  left.  That  evening,  he  was  going  to  have  dinner  with  some  of  his  friends.  Bruno  and  Beryl,  who  had  a  car,  called  him  from  downstairs,  and  he  went  to  meet  them.  And  there  she  was,  in  the  front  seat  of  the  car,  laughing.  ''This  is  Phyllis,&quot;  Bruno  said.  &quot;We've  met  before,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  was  just  telling  them  I  was  so  rude  to  a  man  this  afternoon,  when  you  appeared.&quot;  &quot;You  weren't  rude.&quot;  &quot;It  was  just  that  I  didn't  feel  like  talking  to  anyone.&quot;  &quot;You  were  so  absorbed  in  that  news-  paper.  I  felt  like  asking  you  aquestion  on  the  foreign  situation.&quot;  More  friends  joined  them.  In  three " b"cars,  they  drove  to  a  distant  restaurant,  out  in  the  country.  Two  tables  were  brought  together  to  make  one  long  one.  Without  an  effort  on  his  part,  he  was  seated  beside  Phyllis.  \xc2\xab&quot;What  makes  this  place  so  nice,&quot;  he  said,  's  the  miles  that  separate  it  from  town-the  distance  from  it.&quot;  He  went  on  talking  about  the  value  of  distance.  Favored  by  chance,  exhilarated  by  the  wine,  he  talked  more  than  he  had  in  a  long  time.  In  the  library,  four  hours  before,  words  had  been  so  scarce.  Now  she  had  both  words  and  tender  glances  for  him.  Not  as  tender,  he  noticed,  as  for  Bruno,  who  was  sitting  two  chairs  down.  Still,  this  was  his  evening-the  conversation  was  liveliest  at  his  corner  ofthe  table.  At  one  point,  it  turned  to  painting.  Phyllis  said  a  gallery  down-  town  had  five  of  her  water  colors.  &quot;Dear  Phyllis,  excuse  me  if  I  ask  you,  but  how  much  are  you  selling  them  for?&quot;another  painter,  a  man  who  had  lived  most  of  his  life  in  [REDACTED]  and  had  the  air  of  a  connoisseur,  asked.  \xc2\xab'T  wenty-five  dollars  each.&quot;  &quot;A  moderate  price,&quot;  the  4672616e6365ian  painter  said.  &quot;I'll  buy  one,&quot;  he  broke  in.  &quot;Tomor-  row  morning,  I'll  go  there  first  thing.  I'll  buy  one  even  if  I  shouldn't  like  them.  Oh,  but  I  am  sure  I  will.&quot;  She  laughed.  It  was  a  pleasure  to  see  her  and  to  hear  her.  He  ordered  some  more  wine.  &quot;This  is  on  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;What  do  you  do?&quot;  she  asked,  in-  trigued  at  last.  &quot;I  scribble,&quot;  he  toldher.  &quot;Trace  im-  aginary  forms.&quot;  After  dinner,  he  invited  everyone  to  his  apartment.  Some  came.  The  Pari-  sian  painter  kept  leaning  over  toward  Phyllis,  trying  to  kiss  her.  Another  painter,  a  girl  with  a  beatific  smile,  sat  and  said  nothing,  her  contentment  as  stable  as  a  statue's.  As  they  left,  he  asked  Phyllis  if  she  would  have  dinner  with  him  the  next  day.  &quot;I'll  meet  you  at  the  pizzeria,&quot;  she  said.  He  woke  uptoward  dawn,  when  the  effects  ofthe  wine  had  waned,  and  thought  about  the  water  color  he  had  promised  to  buy.  He  wished  he  hadn't.  Still,  a  promise  was  a  promise.  He  would  go  to  the  gallery  as  soon  as  the  stores  opened.  Get  it  over.  Perhaps  she  painted  well.  Her  face  did  have  a  certain  light,  her  words  and  ways  a  certain  spon-  taneity.  There  was  a  salesgirl  at  the  gallery.  She  said  the  material  was  being  re-  arranged  and  she  didn't  know  where  Phyllis's  water  colors  were.  He  left,  not  too  dissatisfied,  and  in  the  eve- " b"ning  told  Phyllis  what  the  girl  had  said.  &quot;'The  owner  is  a  man;  he'll  show  them  to  you.&quot;  &quot;I'll  have  to  go  back  there  again.&quot;  Talking  to  her,  he  soon  learned  that  she  loved  Bruno.  &quot;I  knew  it,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;from  the  glances  that  you  gave  him.&quot;  Wistfully,  he  looked  at  her  long  hair,  at  her  shoulders.  Later,  in  the  car,  facing  the  lighted  city  from  a  terrace,  he  leaned  toward  her,  and  she  turned  away.  E  didn't  often  have  dinner  alone  now.  His  new-found  friends  called  at  his  apartment  every  day.  They  came  in  company,  like  fishes,  and  he  served  them  drinks,  Had  he  reverted  to  the  life  of  a  bachelor  completely?  No,  he  was  even  more  married  than  be-  fore-he  needed  them,  to  fill  the  empty  apartment,  the  void  that  had  been  left.  Sometimes,  when  the  din  they  made  was  at  its  highest,  he  would  hear  not  the  guitar,  not  the  hillbilly  songs,  not  the  flamenco  music  or  their  laughter  but  his  wife's  voice  singing  to  the  baby.  Then  he  would  drift  out  of  the  crowded  room,  away  from  the  music  to  the  terrace.  There,  under  the  stars,  the  distances  on  earth  reduced  themselves  till  they  were  almost  nonexistent,  negligibly  small.  He  showed  Phyllis  two  of  his  sketches.  She  said  she  was  a  little  disappointed.  He  smiled  at  her  sincerity,  but  his  pride  was  hurt.  He  asked  himself  why  he  should  buy  her  painting.  Her  apartment  was  in  a  small  new  house  off  a  tiny  garden.  One  afternoon,  he  went  to  pose  for  a  portrait  she  wanted  to  do  of  him.  In  the  kitchen,  which  she  used  for  painting,  her  canvases,  most  of  them  still  blank,  leaned  against  the  walls.  There  was  a  good  drawing  of  Bruno,  and  some  landscapes  done  with  a  quick  but  not  very  light  hand.  And  there  was  a  messy  figureof  a  nude.  She  tacked  alarge  piece  of  paper  to  a  board,  stood  back,  glanced  at  him,  then  bounced  forward.  Repeatedly,  she  struck  the  paper  with  a  stick  of  charcoal,  bounced  back  to  look  at  him,  then  again  went  forward  to  the  board  as  though  to  a  target.  Back  to  look  at  him,  to  pick  a  vulnerable  point,  and  then  a  forward  lunge  to  strike  the  board.  In  a  few  min-  utes,  the  sketch  for  the  portrait  was  done.  Immediately,  she  started  paint-  ing  on  a  canvas-started  pounding  on  it  with  her  brushes.  Now,  too,  there  was  a  lot  of  footwork;  breathless,  she  bounded  back  and  forth.  Was  it  a  pose?  Was  she  posing?  No,  he  didn't  think  so.  It  was  genuine  enough,  that  passion.  In  a  half  hour,  the  portrait  was  finished.  He  looked  at  the  battered  image  of  himself.  He  felt  she  had  boxed  with  it " b"and  knocked  it  out  He  seemed  at  least  ten  years  older,  and  flabby  and  paunchy,  limp-heavy  from  head  to  foot.  The  charcoal  sketch  was  better;  at  least,  it  was  lightened  by  the  semblance  of  a  smile.  But  the  painting  was  ugly.  Is  that  how  she  sees  me,  he  thought.  No  wonder  she  doesn't  love  me.  He  remem-  bered  another  portrait,  done  of  him  eight  years  before  by  a  sculptress  whom  he  loved.  She  had  worked  gently;  each  touch  had  been  like  a  caress,  and  a  deli-  cate  image  had  come  out.  Phyllis's  taste  differed  widely  from  his.  In  matters  of  food,  too.  In  restau-  rants,  she  must  have  her  steaks  rare,  and  dishes  that  he  never  ordered-snails,  tripe,  brains.  She  kept  talkingof  roast  pheasant.  Pheasants-they  had  crossed  his  path  in  woods,  their  brown  feathers  blending  with  the  dead  chestnut  leaves,  agile  in  their  walk  and  beautiful  in  flight.  One  had  once  taken  off  almost  from  his  feet,  and  what  a  sound  the  wings  had  made.  He  watched  its  darting  flight  up  to  where  the  leaves  of  the  chestnut  were  green.  He  saw  green  feathers,  quite  as  green  and  as  brilliant  as  the  leaves.  This  girl,  he  thought,  disappoints  me  more  and  more.  She  went  on  disappointing  him  one  weekend  when  he  took  her  and  several  other  friends  to  his  family's  home  out  in  the  country.  &quot;I  would  have  hated  to  grow  up  here,&quot;  she  said  while  he  was  showing  her  to  her  bedroom,  off  a  dark  passage.  Yet  he  continued  to  see  her.  He  liked  her  pale,  oval  face  and  her  large,  humid  eyes,  so  full  of  wonder.  They  promised  passion.  And  her  long  hair  had  cast  a  spell  on  him.  One  day,  there  was  a  party  in  the  studio  of  a  painter  who  lived  on  the  Cathedral  Square.  They  danced  to  rec-  ords  of  Tchaikovsky's  music.  &quot;You  are  the  best  dancer  I  have  ever  danced  with,&quot;  she  said  to  him,  her  arm  suddenly  tightening  around  him,  and  he,  who  had  never  thought  much  of  his  dancing,  was  amazed.  &quot;It's  the  music,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  not  dance  music.&quot;  &quot;What  is  dance  music?&quot;  Outside  the  windows  was  the  white  cathedral,  reflecting  light  into  the  dark-  ened  room.  Inside,  the  painter's  canvases  were  all  studies  of  the  cathedral-its  dark  green  and  weathered  white  and  many  shades  of  rose;  the  green  framing  the  white,  the  clever  interspersion  ofthe  rose.  HIS  wife  had  now  been  gone  near-  ly  four  months.  One  morning,  he  received  a  cable.  She  was  coming" b"back.  He  was  to  meet  her  at  the  airport  the  next  day.  Before  leaving,  he  had  lunch  with  Phyllis,  Bruno,  and  Beryl.  Beryl  asked  him  how  old  he  was.  She  had  asked  him  that  before,  and  he  had  refused  to  answer.  Now  he  told  them.  &quot;I  am  thirty-eight,&quot;  he  said.  There  was  a  moment's  silence.  He  could  see  that  they  had  thought  him  younger.  They  were  still  in  their  twen-  ties.  Phyllis  was  only  twenty-five.  &quot;About  our  age,&quot;  Bruno  said,  and  Beryl  nodded.  Suddenly  he  felt  much  older  than  they  were.  And  what  was  he  doing  with  them?  He  had  a  family-a  little  girl  in  the  arms  of  her  mother  in  an  air-  plane.  &quot;Is  it  all  over?&quot;  Phyllis  said,  after  lunch,  walking  with  him  down  the  street.  They  were  holding  hands.  Beryl  and  Bruno  trailed  some  steps  behind.  &quot;You  don't  love  me  anyway.&quot;  &quot;I'm  beginning  to.&quot;  &quot;Because  my  wife  is  coming  back?&quot;  She  laughed.  &quot;Will  I  like  your  wife?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  My  wife  is  rather  jealous.&quot;  He  was  a  few  minutes  late  at  the  air-  port.  Wife  and  child  were  outside,  wait-  ing-the  little  girl  in  a  green  coat  and  hat,  her  curls  four  months  longer  than  when  he  last  had  seen  her,  and  his  wife  looking  strangely  pretty,  prettier  than  the  girls  he  had  gotten  to  know  during  her  absence.  Phyllis  Bruno,  Beryl,  and,  later,  J.  J.  and  the  guitarist  came  to  meet  his  wife  the  day  after  her  return.  &quot;How  do  you  like  my  friends?&quot;  he  asked  her  after  they  had  left.  &quot;Your  friends!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  don't  like  them.&quot;  She  didn't  answer.  'You  don't  like  them,  do  you?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  do.&quot;  Two  days  later,  Phyllis  gave  a  party.  His  wife  said  she  was  too  tired  to  go,  but  he  thought  he  should  at  least  make  an  appearance.  In  the  white,  boxlike  rooms  of  her  apartment,  people  were  dancing  to  some  silly  record.  Most  of  the  people  there  were  new  to  him.  J.  J.  wasn't  there,  or  the  guitarist.  The  red-haired  young  man  and  his  girl  had  left  for  New  York  a  week  before.  He  danced  with  Phyllis.  But  he  couldn't  dance,  not  to  this  music.  'You  see,  it  was  Tchaikovsky,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Will  you  buy  my  water  color?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'Yes,  I'll  go  to  the  gallery  tomor-  row,&quot;  he  said,  without  enthusiasm.  He  left  soon.  Home,  he  found  his  wife  waiting  for  him  in  the  hall,  in  her " b"dressing  gown.  For  a  few  moments,  she  kept  silent  and  stared  at  him,  then  she  dashed  for  the  door  and  rushed  down-  stairs.  He  caught  up  with  her  three  flights  down.  With  difficulty,  he  man-  aged  to  persuade  her  to  come  back  up  withhim.  &quot;Imagine  going  out  and  leaving  me  and  the  baby  all  alone  at  night  only  three  days  after  we've  come  back,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  won't  go  out  and  leave  her  any  more,&quot;  he  told  himself,  exhausted.  &quot;It  isn't  worth  it.&quot;  The  next  day,  hesitantly,  he  told  his  wife  about  the  water  color.  &quot;I  had  drunk  a  lot  of  wine,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Do  you  like  her  painting?&quot;  &quot;Not  really,  but  I  promised.&quot;  &quot;And  she's  holding  you  to  it?&quot;  &quot;It's  only  twenty-five  dollars.&quot;  &quot;She  has  plenty  of  money.  Plenty.  She  wears  a  thirty-dollar  cashmere  sweater.&quot;  &quot;She  needs  the  encouragement.  I've  heard  her  speak  of  suicide  more  than  once.&quot;  He  went  to  the  gallery  without  saying  anything  more.  The  owner  was  there  this  time.  He  spread  the  five  water  colors  on  a  table.  &quot;Expressionist,&quot;  Phyl-  lis  had  called  them.  There  were  vague  figures,  splashes  of  color,  color  that  had  dripped  down  to  the  bottom  margin.  Were  they  spontaneous?  Or  were  they  deliberately  spontaneous?  He  didn't  know.  He  only  knew  they  were  done  very  quickly.  Perhaps  she  had  taken  less  than  a  minute  for  each  one.  He  bought  one,  and  went  home  with  it  rolled  up.  A  day  or  two  later,  he  told  his  wife  he  had  bought  it.  &quot;Let's  see  it,&quot;  she  said.  She  didn't  like  it.  He  didn't  hang  it  up.  In  their  apartment  there  wasn't  any  more  the  din  of  parties,  the  sound  of  guitars,  flamenco  music,or  hillbilly  songs.  Early  in  the  morning,  there  was  the  sound  of  a  little  girl  running  bare-  foot  to  his  room. "