 b"OH,  he's  a  fine,  substantial  figure  O  of  a  man,  to  be  sure,  is  Mr.  Julian  Vicissitude,  lounging  there  in  that  new  mackintosh  of  his,  a  high-grade  hat  in  one  hand  and  a  smart  bamboo  stick  in  the  other,  smirking  into  the  camera  as  though  the  wholeworld  were  his  private  oyster.  A  typical  em-  pire  builder,  you'd  say-one  of  those  solid,  foursquare  chaps  you'll  meet  along  Threadneedle  Street  of  a  morn-  ing,  brisk  and  yet  twinkling,  because  he's  just  brought  off  this  little  deal,  don't  you  see,  whereby  forty  thousand quid  gives  birth  to  eighty  and  nobody  the  wiser,  tee-hee,  especially  the  Depart-  ment  of  Inland  Revenue.  I  mean,  the  sort  of  old  reliable  family  friend  you  wouldn't  hesitate  to  trust  with  your  in-  vestments  or  your  niece,  and  then  one  fine  day  the  news  item  datelined  Hen-  daye  about  the  Spanish  authorities  having  detained  a  certain  prominent  industrialist  and  his  blond  companion  for  questioning.  Ah,  yes,  the  butter  hasn't  been  churned  yet  that  would  melt  in  Mr.  Julian  Vicissitude's  mouth.  As  for  that  new  raincoat  draped  over  his  body,  so  crisp  and  sweet,  every  blessed  button  in  place,  well,  I  wish  it  joy  of  him.  Wait  till  he  starts  showing  his  true  colors;  wait  till  he  repays  its  years  of  devotion  as  he  did  mine.  I  was  the  only  waterproof  he  ever  loved,  he  used  to  say,  and  I  was  fool  enough  to  believe  him.  Oh,  I  know  how  bitter  it  sounds,  but  as  long  as  he's  washed  his  hands  of  me  so  publicly,  he  needn't  expect  me  to  remain  silent.  So  I'm  just  an  old  bit  of  rainwear  to  be  exploited  and  cast  aside,  am  I?  We'll  soon  see  about  that.  I  may  as  well  begin  with  the  way  we  first  met,  the  day  he  &quot;purchased&quot;  me,  as  he  calls  it-and  there's  a  euphe-  mism  if  ever  I  saw  one.  'The  plain  truth  is  that  I  was  hanging  in  the  cloakroom  of  Iscariot's,  this  Cypriot  restaurant  in  So-  ho,  scarcely  an  hour  after  an  overseas  visitor  had  bought  me  at  a  shop  in  Shaftesbury  Avenue.  He  wasa  rancher-  an  Australian,  I  gathered  from  his  ac-  cent-the  big,  beefy  kind  that  rips  apart  your  shoulder  seams  unless  you're  dou-  ble-sewn,  as  I  am.  Well,  halfway  through  lunch  I  felt  a  hand  stealthily  rummaging  through  my  pockets,  and  a  second  later  I  was  un-  ceremoniously  whisked  from  the  hanger,  fold-  ed  over  someone's  arm,  and  carted  off.  In  that  position,  naturally,  I'd  no  clue  to  where  I  was  being  taken  or  by  whom,  but  I  wasn't  left  in  doubt  very  long.  All  of  a  sudden,  a  brash  young  gent  in  a  thirty-  guinea  suit,  with  a  larcenous  glint  in  his  eye,  was  shaking  me  out  in  the  middle  of  Vigo  Street  and  holding  me  up  for  inspection.  &quot;Well,  you're  a  dandy  all-weather  mackintosh,  as  sure  as  my  name's  Julian  Vicissitude,&quot;  he  crowed.  &quot;A  bit  am-  ple,  perhaps,  but  then  a  wide  boy  like  me  needs  a  roomy  garment,  what?&quot;  That  anybody  should  abstract  another's  ap-  parel  in  broad  daylight  and,  furthermore,  open-  ly  gloat  over  it  seemed  such  brazen  impudence  that  I  was  rendered  in-  capable  of  reply.  With-  in  a  couple  of  days,  however,  I  learned  that  my  new  owner  was,  as     " b"he'd  proclaimed,  a  wide  boy,  a  real  layabout.  He  manifestly  had  no  fixed  profession  or  business,  because  he  stayed  up  till  all  hours  and  never  rose  before  noon;  and  yet,  judging  from  the  wad  of  banknotes  he  slipped  into  me  now  and  again,  he  was  in  easy  circum-  stances.  At  the  outset,  I  reckoned  him  fora  re-  tired  jockey  ora  tout,  as  he  was  forever  haring  off  to  race  meetings  at  Goodwood  and  New-  market,  but  he  also  liked  to  hobnob  with  press-  men  in  the  Fleet  Street  pubs  and  tipple  in  those  bars  around  Hatton  Garden  where  jewel-  lers  congregate,  so  I  couldn't  rightly  figure  his  pitch.I  got  his  meas-  ure,  finally,  from  the  pack  of  cards  hekept  secreted  in  one  of  my  sleeves.  Obviously,  Vi-  cissitude  was  a  citizen  who  lived  by  his  wits,  and  since  my  destiny  had  been  forcibly  inter-  mingled  with  his,  I  had  no  choice  other  than  to  close  a  hook  and  eye  to  his  capers.  How  right  I  was  the  events  of  the  very  next  Sunday  proved.  Vicissitude  was  weekending  with  one  Gerald  Peach-Wintergreen,  a  rich  wool  factor  up  in  Essex,  just  outside  Finchingfield,  and  from  what  I  was  able  to  piece  to-  gether-I  wasn't  eyewitness  to  it,  of  course,  since  he  rarely  wore  me  in-  doors-his  host  was  mad  keen  on  back-  gammon.  After  losing  a  few  games  to  whet  the  fellow's  appetite,  Vissy  moved  in  for  the  kill.  When  the  score  was  totted  up  eventually,  Peach-Winter-  green  was  loser  by  seven  hundred  pounds.  Unhappily,  just  as  he  was  scrib-  bling  his  check,  aset  of  loaded  dice  tumbled  out  of  Vissy's  trouser  cuff.  Ten  minutes  afterward,  the  boss  described  a  somersault  dow  n  the  front  stairs  into  the  gravelled  drive,  where  his  bag  and  I  had  landed  moments  before.  Apart  from  having  his  Sitzfleisch  peppered  with  buckshot,  I  don't  suppose  he  sustained  any  actual  damage  from  the  shotgun  blasts  I  heard,  but  he  seemed  much  more  subdued  thereafter.  He'd  none  of  that  devil-may-care  aplomb,  that  honeyed  charm,  that  he  used  so  effectively  to  lull  his  victims.  It  was  soon  after  this  contretemps  that  his  fortunes  took  a  sharp  turn,  large-  ly  through  the  agency  of  an  uncle,  Sir  Isaac  Mangrove.  Apparently,  the  old  party  had  somehow  got  word  of  his  re-  lation's  exploits,  for  one  morning  Vissy  hurriedly  pulled  me  on  over  his  pajamas  and  answered  the  doorbell,  which  was  buzzing  like  ahornet.  The  chap  outside  was  a  real  museum  piece-cavalry  mus-  tache,  single  eyeglass,  gray  cutaway,  the  lot-and  he  was  in  a  fearful  wax.  The  whole  family'd  been  disgraced,  he  bel-  lowed;  generations  of  Vicissitudes  past  andunborn  were  doomed  to  eternal  shame  on  account  of  one  black  sheep.  Having  worked  himself  up  to  the  verge  of  apoplexy,  Sir  Isaac  delivered  an  ulti-  matum:  his  nephew  would  emigrate  im-  mediately  to  4b656e7961,  in  which  outpost  a  job  in  a  shipping  firm  awaited  him,  or  a  detailed  account  of  his  chicanery  would  be  handed  in  to  [REDACTED]  Yard  the  next  morning,  with  a  recommenda-  tionthat  he  be  given  six  dozen  of  the  best  and  transported  to  Botany  Bay.  Swayed  by  the  generosity  of  the  offer  as  well  as  by  the  prospect  of  new  fields  for  his  talent,  Vissy  gratefully  assented.  In-  side  a  fortnight,  we  were  speeding  east-ward  to  59656d656e  aboard  a  Union-Castle  liner.  Since  the  weather  was  clement  most  of  the  trip,  Vissy  had  little  need  of  me.  Nevertheless,  several  gleeful  remarks  he  addressed  to  the  shaving  mirror-I  was  swaying  on  the  bathroom  door  at  the  time-indicated  that  he  was  paying  court  to  an  Italian  beauty  from  Somali-  land,  the  wife  of  a  wealthy  date  mer-  chant  there.  I  naively  supposed  it  was  an  innocent  shipboard  flirtation  until  a  chance  reference  of  hers,  to  the  effect  that  her  husband  was  passionately  ad-  dicted  to  bridge,  enlightened  me.  With  the  aid  of  a  couple  of  Drambuies  and  an  obliging  full  moon,  Vissy  obtained  his  objective,  an  invitation  to  dine  with  the  pairat  Mogadiscio.  While  I  myself  wasn't  taken  ashore  that  evening,  the  sheaf  of  piastres  he  brought  back  plainly  signified  what  a  coup  he  had  scored.  Just  as  he  was  cackling  over  his  haul,  though,  the  bombshell  burst.  A  launch  full  of  excited  officials  swept  alongside,  and  Vissy  panicked  and  flung  the  money  out  the  porthole,  only  to  discover  that  the  authorities  were  hunting  for  a  stow-  away.  You  should  have  seen  him  rage  up  and  down  the  cabin,  smiting  his  fore-     " b"head  like  some  Old  Testament  boffin  and  groaning.  It  was  immense.  By  the  time  we  reached  4b656e7961,  the  monsoon  rains  had  set  in,  so  the  two  of  us  practically  lived  together.  The  berth  Sir  Isaac  had  secured  for  the  scapegrace  was  a  clerical  one-copying  into  ledgersendless  columns  of  figures  on  the  coffee,  pyrethrum,  and  sisal  the  firm  exported.  It  took  him  a  day  or  so  to  learn  his  duties,  and  another  to  prac-  tice  imitating  the  manager's  signature  on  his  checks.  Then  he  removed  his  sleeveguards,  took  me  from  the  peg,  and  went  down  to  the  Old  Port,  where  he  concluded  a  pact  with  three  Arab  high-  binders  to  smuggle  ivory  by  dhow  to  496e646961.  One  of  the  trio,  unfortunately,  was  a  police  informer,  and  within  the  hour  Vissy  and  I  were  sharing  a  cell  in  Fort  Jesus  with  a  family  of  sixteenth-  century  Portuguese  roaches.  Thanks  to  an  urgent  collect  cable  Vissy  was  allowed  to  dispatch,  Uncle  Isaac  managed  to  pull  wires  in  Whitehall,  and  the  next  morning  we  were  hustled  onto  a  tramp  steamer  bound  for  Marseille.  If  Vissy  was  disheartened  by  the  en-  suing  period  in  [REDACTED],  when  he  was  scrounging  barely  enough  to  exist  on,  it  didn't  seem  to  diminish  his  bounce.  Not  one  of  the  schemes  he  evolved  to  line  his  purse  materialized;  but  one  evening  he  held  a  long,  whispered  conference  in  a  zinc  off  the  Place  Denfert-Rochereau  with  a  flashy  type  sporting  a  black  mono-  cle,  and  I  sensed  that  something  big  was  in  the  wind.  The  following  day,  the  two  bore  me  to  an  obscure  tailor's  shop  in  the  Saint-Denis  quarter  and  arranged  to  have  a  number  of  extra  pockets  sewn  into  my  interior.  It  was  a  touchy  busi-  ness,  crossing  the  Channel  with  six  doz-  en  Swiss  watch  movements  stuffed  inside  me,  and  they  shook  like  bloody  castanets,  what  with  Vissy  aquiver  and  all  of  a  muck  sweat  as  we  went  through  the  customs  barrier.  However,  I  knew  enough  to  keep  a  stiff  upper  fabric,  and  we  ultimately  passed  the  consignment  to  the  proprietor  of  an  espresso  bar  in  Wardour  Street.  And  then,  just  as  Vissy  was  skipping  out  of  the  place,  his  wallet  as  fat  as  a  [REDACTED]  goose,  treading  on  air  at  the  way  he'd  handled  the  deal,  he  got  his  comeuppance.  Two  stern-faced  men  were  approaching  us  on  the  pave-  ment,  deep  in  conversation.  As  one  of  them  looked  up  and  saw  Vissy,  he  gave  a  violent  start.  &quot;That's  him!&quot;  he  ex-  claimed.  &quot;That's  the  one!&quot;  &quot;By  George,  so  it  is!&quot;  said  the  other,  thunderstruck.  &quot;Quick-don't  let  him  get  away!&quot;  There  wasn't  any  alternative,  under  the  circumstances,  except  to  bolt,  and  off  we  went,  dodging  through  the  com-  plex  of  streets  around  Charing  Cross  Road  with  the  pair  in  hot  pursuit.  Somewhere  to  the  north  of  Trafalgar  Square,  my  boss's  wind  gave  out  and  they  closed  in  on  him.  Between  his  fright  and  the  general  uproar,  he  couldn't  understand  at  first  what  they  were  saying,  but  they  finally  got  it  across.  They  were  television  folk  from  the  States-a  producer  and  director,  I  believe  they  called  themselves-and     they  urgently  needed  someone  to  play  a  [REDACTED]  Yard  inspector.  It  didn't  mat-  ter  two  straws  to  them  that  Vissy  was  no  actor  and  that  he  exuded  about  as  much  menace  as  boiled  haddock,  The  main  thing  was  that  I  was  ideal  for  the  role,  and  these  chaps,  being  true  professionals,  had  the  insight  and  the  sensitivity  to  rec-  ognize  it.  It  always  used  to  fascinate  me,  after  I  scored  an  international  success  in  the  &quot;Finders  Keepers&quot;  series  and  the  one  that  followed,  &quot;Keepers  Finders,&quot;  to  listen  to  the  rot  Julian  Vicissitude  dished  out  to  interviewers.  From  his  account,  he'd  been  cradled  in  a  theatrical  trunk,  appeared  in  pantos  at  the  age  of  seven,  trouped  all  over  the  [REDACTED]  with  his  own  repertory  company,  and  given  Gielgud  and  Olivier  their  earliest  comprehension  of  Shakespeare.  Not  once  did  he  bother  to  acknowledge  his  debt  to  me,  who'd  lifted  him  out  of  the  ruck  and  assured     " b"his  climb  to  the  heights.  Oh,  he  was  meticulous  enough  about  having  me  dry-cleaned  and  replacing  my  snaps-I  was  his  bread  and  butter.  But  compan-  ionship,  snuggling  up  together  as  we'd  done  back  at  Fort  Jesus?  That  was  an-  cient  history.  Nowadays,  I  was  begin-  ning  to  embarrass  him  ever  so  slightly;  he'd  outgrown  me,  as  one  of  your  nowveau-riche  baronets  has  his  old  lady  who  served  as  barmaid  in  his  first  tap-  room.  Time  and  again,  I  caught  him  gazing  into  gents'  furnishing  shops,  pretending  to  examine  a  robeor  cravat  but  secretly  eying  some  sleazy  mac  in  the  back.  His  conscience,  of  course,  wouldn't  permit  him  to  discard  me  out  of  hand,  so  he  chose  the  coward's  way:  he  deliberately  set  out  to  lose  me.But  it  wasn't  all  that  simple;  my  audience  was  as  big  as  his  and  just  as  loyal.  His  first  try,  when  he  left  me  behind  on  a  Pad-  dington  bus,  misfired  ludicrously-the  conductor  spotted  me  straight  off  and  I  was  back  at  the  studio  early  next  morn-  ing.  Then  he  did  me  up  in  a  brown  pa-  per  parcel,  checked  me  at  Waterloo,  and  threw  away  the  claim  ticket,  but  I  was  picked  up  by  the  C.I.D.,  along  with  a  number  of  similar  parcels  containing  a  deceased  lady,  and  the  police,  who  mod-  elled  their  techniques  on  those  we  used  on  our  telly  program,  returned  me  to  him  with  a  note  of  apology.  The  cream  of  the  jest  was  that  we  finally  parted  just  as  we'd  met;  one  of  the  light-fingered  gentry,  a  souvenir  hunter  more  than  likely,  filched  me  from  the  cloakroom  of  the  Ivy  whilst  Vissy  was  lunching  there.  He  set  up  agreat  hue  and  cry,  offered  a  reward,  pretended  his  career  was  ruined  with-  out  me,  and  got  hell's  own  amount  of  publicity  out  of  the  affair.  By  then,  though,  I  was  swinging  on  a  rack  of  der-  elict  rainwear  in  Seven  Dials,  bleached  oyster  white  and  flaunting  a  sign  that  read  &quot;Nobby  Value-16  Shils.&quot;  And  here  I  expect  to  remain  until  fortune's  wheel  revolves  again.  My  current  owner  is  a  perky  homunculus  with  the  red-  rimmed  eyes  of  a  stoat,  a  detestable  spiv  who'd  cheerfully  disembowel  you  for  a  florin,  but  he  hasn't  an  ounce  of  pre-  tense.  You  know  where  you  stand  with  him-which  is  a  damn  sight  more  than  can  be  said  for  that  nature's  nobleman  and  jolly  good  fellow,  your  television  idol  and  mine,  and  may  a  pox  fly  away  with  him,  Julian  Vicissitude. "