 b"AN  aunt  of  mine  had  a  haunted  linen  closet.  'The  door  would  be  found  half  opened,  and  inside  a  lady  with  a  little  shawl  over  her  head  would  be  peacefully  examining  the  shelves-a  natural  rendezvous  with  its  mortal  coil  for  any  spirit  of  a  domestic  turn  of  mind,  I  think.  Yet  I  have  never  heard  ofa  haunted  bathroom.  This  strikes  me  as  very  odd,  since  in  no  apart-  ment  is  one  more  securely,  expandedly,  unaffectedly  oneself.  If  I  have  to  haunt  at  all,  I  shall  hope  to  haunt  a  bathroom  and  there  continue  to  expand.  The  first  bathroom  that  made  a  dis-  tinct  impression  on  me  was  at  my  grand-  father's  rectory  in  Surrey.  'Three  things  combined  to  make  it  memorable:  the  soap,  the  outlook  over  the  churchyard,  my  dauntless  courage  in  exposing  my  toe.  The  bath  had  a  very  powerful  runaway,  and  it  was  my  custom  to  stand  with  my  right  bigtoe  over  the  hole,  feeling  the  water  deliciously  swirling  past  it  and  waiting  for  the  moment  when  with  a  final  resounding  gurgle  the  last  of  the  bath  water  was  sucked  away  and  my  toe  sharply  jerked  down-  ward,  no  longer  a  toe  I  could  call  my  own  but  a  thing  imperilled,  at  the  mercy  of  forces  far  beyond  its  control  and  poised  above  a  mysterious  pit.  I  must  have  had  my  baths  at  very  odd  times-to  fit  in  with  the  claims  of  my  elders,  I  suppose-for  I  remember  one  occasion  when,  standing  with  my  toe  above  the  pit,  I  watched  from  the  bathroom  window  an-  other,  equally  abrupt  descent-a  coffin  being  lowered  into  a  grave.  But  in  fact  weddings  made  more  impression  on  me,  because  of  seeing  how  the  village  brides  were  dressed.  There  was  a  fawn-colored  tai-  lor-made  bride  trimmed  with  pink  who  still  re-  mains  with  me  as  an  apprehension  of  ele-  gance-most  children  have  bad  taste;  mine  was  excruciating.  As  for  the  soap,  it  was  a  ravishing  lettuce  green,  and  called  White  Rose  and  Cucumber-an  in-  timation  of  poetry.  I  ex-  pect  it  was  supplied  by  the  Army  &amp;  Navy-a  store  my  grandmother  thought  well  of.  My  father  chose  to  buy  soap  from  4974616c79.  It  came  assorted  in  crates  from  a  place  called  Pontelagoscuro-a  romantic  name,  though  not,  I  believe,  a  romantic  place-and  was  a  soul-stirring  experi-  ence  to  unpack,  for  some  ofthe  cakes  were  purple,  others  bottle  green,  some  even  navy  blue.  Hard  as  Parmesan,  it  kept  its  scent  down  to  the  last  wafer.  Except  for  the  Italian  soaps,  I  main-  ly  remember  the  family  bathroom  as  a  place  where  I  did  a  great  deal  of  reading,  occasionally  rousing  to  turn  on  more  hot  water,  occasionally  roused  by  my  mother  banging  on  the  doorwith  invidious  comments  on  whatever  au-  thor  was  engaging  my  attention  at  the  time.  &quot;Still  soaking  in  Zola?  No  won-  der  you  fall  asleep.&quot;  My  mother  dis-  approved  of  me  reading  in  my  bath.  It  was  bad  for  the  books.  So  when  I  set  up  in  [REDACTED]  with  a  job  and  a  bathroom  of  my  own,  I  furnished  it  with  a  book-  case,  But  I  never  got  much  reading  done  there.  It  lacked  repose.  'There  was  a  gas  water  heater  of  a  kind  called  a  geyser-after  something  volcanic  in  [REDACTED].  Roaring,  rattling,  spitting  out  blue  flames,  on  winter  mornings  my  geyser  fully  bore  out  that  attribution,  and  at  no  time  of  year  could  I  trust  it,  since  when  it  was  functioning  it  threat-  ened  to  explode  and  when  it  was  quies-  cent  it  leaked.  If  for  a  time  I  managed  to  forget  about  the  geyser  and  settled  down  to  do  some  reading,  my  peace  of  mind  would  be  rent  by  a  sudden  uneasiness  as  to  whether  I  had  brought  along  my  latchkey.  In  this  imperfectly  adapted  flat  a  common  landing  and  a  short  flight  of  stairs  separated  my  bath-  room  from  the  rest,  so  that  if  while  remembering  to  slam  my  front  door  I  forgot  to  bring  my  latchkey,  I  had  to  get  out  of  the  passage  window,  traverse  a  wall  above  a  glass  skylight  by  clinging  to  a  drainpipe,  and  squirm  in  at  my  bedroom  window-a  feasible  route,  but  so  smutty  that  I  then  had  to  have  an-  other  bath.  After  a  while  I  gave  way  to  a  bour-  geois  craving  to  be  self-contained,  and  moved.  The  new  flat  pandered  to  every  bourgeois  gene  in  my  being;  not  only  was  it  self-contained,  it  was  positively  genteel,  in  a  residential  terrace  instead  ofa  shopping  street,  and  looking  down  on  a  small  back  garden  with  several  trees  and  a  fine  assortment  of  hardy  weeds.  The  agent  who  showed  me  over  it  seemed  rather  reserved  about  its  bathroom,  giving  me  his  word  that  it  was  structurally  sound,  and  otherwise  preferring  to  dwell  on  a  marble  mantel-  piece  and  what  a  bargain  I  should  get  in  the  fittings.  But  it  was  the  bathroom  that  caught  my  fancy.  It  had  glass  walls  and  a  glass  roof-Ilid,  perhaps,  would  be  atruer  term,  considering  its  dimen-  sions;  it  clung  to  the  outside  of  the  back  wall  like  a  snail,  and  was  entered  by  a  French  window.  It  was,  in  fact,  one  of  those  small  conservatories  that  embel-  lished  Victorian  back  drawing  rooms,  with  a  pony-sized  bath  in  it.  I  liked  it  so  much  that  I  consented  to  the  out-  rageous  price  for  the  fittings  (two  lugubrious  curtain  poles  and  a  piece  of  dirty  carpet),  and  felt  myself  a  match  for  Semiramis.  Semiramis  might  have  thought  it  rather  small,  and  if  it  had  fallen  off  while  I  was  in  it  I  might  well  have  been  killed.  But  the  agent  had  said  it  was  structurally  sound,  and  I  had  no  reason  to  dis-  believe  him.  (I  could  see  for  myself  that  the  mantelpiece  was  marble  to  the  core.)  The  de-  cency  arabesques  on  the  glass  walls  were  the  worse  for  wear,  and  a  scrupulously  modest  person  might  have  judged  them  insuffi-  cient,  but  I  was  not  ob-  sessed  with  modesty,  and  at  that  time  there  really  wasn't  enough  of  " b"me  to  make  a  fuss  about.  Besides,  there  would  be  steam;  and  in  summer,  trees.  The  trees  were  sycamores,  as  thick-  tressed  as  if  they  had  been  transplanted  from  the  Greek  Anthology.  On  sum-  mer  mornings  I  bathed  with  the  win-  dow  open,  watching  cats  and  sparrows,  looking  into  those  gently  moving  re-  cesses  of  green;  while  at  all  seasons  the  garden  beneath  exhaled  breathings  of  lilies  and  violets  whenever  a  surge  of  bath  water  went  down  the  overflow.  It  was  a  most  amiable  bathroom-trust-  worthy,  too,  for  it  never  fell  off.  If  I  should  have  to  haunt,  I  daresay  it  would  be  the  one  I  should  choose,  if  the  house  had  not  afterward  been  destroyed  in  an  air  raid.  The  same  air  raid  damaged  the  house  further  down  the  terrace  in  which,  my  lease  having  run  out,  I  set  up  with  my  newly  married  cousin  and  his  wife.  By  this  time  I  was  over  thirty,  and  begin-  ning  to  feel  rather  frail,  so  I  chose  to  inhabit  the  lower  half  rather  than  be  forever  carrying  groceries  upstairs.  This  gave  me  a  magnificent  Victorian  kitch-  en  andtwo  period  coal  cellars.  One  of  these  I  converted  to  a  bathroom.  I  had  it  painted  rose  color  to  wipe  out  its  past,  I  trimmed  it  with  the  rosiest-posiest  chintz  I  could  find,  I  lavished  rose-ge-  ranium  soaps  and  essences  on  it,  and  in  summer  I  bought  it  tight  bunches  of  Anne  Boleyn  pinks  from  the  flower  seller  at  the  corner  of  the  street.  But  it  never  became  a  successful  bathroom.  It  always  had  an  oddly  cavernous  smell,  black  beetles  roamed  there,  and  coal  dust  seeped  through  its  rosy  walls.  Looking  back  on  it  with  a  maturer  judg-  ment  of  conversions,  I  think  I  was  too  total  with  my  Ethiop.  It  would  prob-  ably  have  settled  down  better  if  I  had  respected  its  prejudices  and  made  a  tri-  fling  acknowledgment  of  its  former  way  of  life;  I  could  have  kept  some  coal  in  it,  forinstance.  Then  in  a  whisk  I  went  off  to  live  in  the  country,  in  a  cottage  so  small  that  it  barely  afforded  foothold  for  a  collaps-  ible  rubber  bath.  In  this  I  reflected  on  the  adjacency  of  cleanliness  to  godli-  ness-a  truth  I  had  not  realized  be-  fore-until  my  charwoman  came  down  from  [REDACTED]  on  a  visit,  bringing  her  little  girl,  and  was  glad  to  see  I  had  a  copper,  [REDACTED]  The  copper  in  its  sturdy  brick  casing  took  up  one  corner  of  the  kitchen  and  looked  like  an  altar  dedi-  cated  to  some  minor  Moloch.  Coppers,  I  knew,  were  used  for  boiling  a  family  wash,  or  Dickensian  plum  puddings.  I  had  not  had  the  imagination  to  see  my  altar  to  Moloch  as  a  potential  Baden-  Baden.  My  charwoman  was  too  polite  to  intimate  that  I  needed  a  good  wash.  Instead,  she  said  that  young  Ivy  could  do  with  one,  if  I  had  no  objection.  And  while  the  copper  was  beinggot  ready  for  young  Ivy,  she  taught  me  the  meth-  od  and  its  niceties.  The  art  is  in  the  nice-  ties.  In  filling  the  copper,  you  have  to  allow  for  displacement  if  you  don't  want  a  splosh  all  over  the  place;  and  as  the  water  must  heat  gradual-otherwise  it  will  go  off  as  soon  as  you're  in  it  the fire  underneath  has  to  be  kept  in  bounds.  There  is  a  right  moment  to  throw  in  the  soap,  there  is  a  right  moment  to  draw  away  the  fire.  When  you  judge  that  the  metal  has  cooled  while  the  water  is  still  hot,  you  lift  off  the  lid.  A  gush  of  steam  arises,  you  plunge  your  arm  through  the  suds,  test  the  heat,  and,  if  all  is  as  it  should  be,  mount  on  a  chair  and  step  in.  Then,  moving  discreetly,  you  sit  down,  your  toes  drawn  in,  your  knees  drawn  up,  your  arms  embracing  your  shins,in  the  posture  of  ancient  British  pit  burials  And  if  you  have  estimated  your  displacement  rightly,  the  suds  and  the  steam  will  do  the  rest.  One  would  think  that  such  a  very  small  and  inoffensive  dwelling  might  have  been  left  to  end  its  days  in  peace,  but  here,  too,  was  to  be  no  haunting  place  for  me.  One  May  night  in  1944,     " b"the  young  woman  who  was  my  tenant  woke  with  such  an  acute  premonition  of  danger  that  she  got  the  household  up  and  out  of  the  cottage  before  they  had  time  to  be  reasonable.  They  were  standing  in  the  lane,  in  the  gentle  moonlight,  and  one  of  them  was  saying,  &quot;Listen!  Isn't  that-&quot;  when  the  single,  irrational  bomb  was  loosed.  When  they  recovered  their  senses,  the  air  was  choking  with  dust  and  they  were  netted  like  fish  in  the  branches  of  an  up-  rooted  tree.  SO  many  of  the  houses  I  have  lived  in  have  afterward  come  to  violent  ends  that  I  wonder  my  friends  still  invite  me  under  their  roofs.  For  there  is  yet  another:  it  died  by  the  act  of  God,  and  a  wave  was  its  winding  sheet.  It  stood  on  the  north  coast  of  Norfolk-a  coast  always  under  menace  from  the  sea.  I  remember  a  man's  pointing  to  a  long-  shore  fishing  boat  and  telling  me  that  precisely  beneath  it  there  had  been  a  bridge  over  a  stream,  and  that  his  grandfather  as  a  boy  had  seen  wagons  loadedwith  corn  driven  over  it.  Fur-  ther  out,  there  was  a  submerged  mar-  ket  town,  larger  than  the  market  town  inland,  and  the  bells  in  its  church  tow-  er  could  be  heard  ringing  in  a  ground  swell.  The  usual  Ys  legends,  in  fact,  only  distinguished  by  an  insistence  that  all  this  was  pretty  recent,  was  almost  something  still  being  talked  about.  The  house  was  called  the  Folly,  and  it  had  a  legend,  too.  It  had  been  built  by  a  lady  in  the  market  town  (the  visible  one),  who  had  loved  a  sea  captain.  Ev-  ery  night,  she  drove  out  to  it  along  the  causeway  over  the  sea  marsh  to  light  a  beaconing  lamp  in  its  window.  After  her  day,  it  was  used  by  the  coast  guards,  and  it  was  they,  so  I  was  told,  who  put  the  battlements  on  its  roof.  When  the  coast  guards  moved  to  the  new  station  further  along  the  coast,  the  Folly  was  aban-  doned,  and  stood  empty  till  a  family  from  [REDACTED]  bought  it  as  a  holiday  house  and  put  in  two  bathrooms.  The  lady  of  the  lamp,  the  battle-  ments,  the  two  bathrooms,  the  school-  teacher  on  the  roof-they  were  known  far  and  wide;  they  were  part  of  the  story,  part  of  the  legend.  And  we,  by  renting  the  Folly  for  the  winter,  ex-  citedlocal  interest  much  as  though  we  were  the  first  page  of  another  chapter.  Even  if  we  did  not  prove  so  notable  as  the  schoolteacher-also  a  winter  tenant, who,  when  the  house  was  cut  off  by  a  series  of  high  tides  flooding  the  marsh,  was  seen  walking  on  the  roof  and  be-  lieved  to  be  signalling,  though  as  it  was  impossible  to  get  to  her  no  one  could  learn  what  she  meant,  till  the  flood  with-  drew  and  she  explained  to  inquiring  visitors  that  she  had  been  admiring  the  spectacle-even  if  we  did  not  prove  so  notable  as  she,  we  were  at  least  nota-  ble  in  going  there  at  all  that  time  of  year.  &quot;You  aren't  afraid  of  the  old  waves,  then?&quot;  shouted  the  man  who  was  de-  livering  coal.  Waiting  for  a  pause  be-  tween  one  wave  and  another,  I  said  we  hadn't  been  afraid  so  far.  He  stared  at  me  as  if  I  were  something  a  long  way  out  to  sea.  It  was  a  two-story  house,  stockily  built  and  looking  assertively  bolt  up-  right  on  its  little  hillock,  a  residue  of  rabbity  turf  and  crouched  gorse  bushes  on  the  eroded  beach.  On  either  side  of  the  hillock  the  pebble  ridge  stretched  featurelessly  away.  In  front  the  beach  sloped  sharply  downward;  at  low  tide  it  was  quite  difficult  to  clamber  up  its  subsiding  lower  terraces.  Behind  was  a  wide  stretch  of  sea  marsh,  and  a  cause-  way  connecting  us  with  the  real  land,  where  people  lived  and  vegetables  grew  and  where  we  went  for  supplies  of  drinking  water.  On  a  calm  day,  we  could  hear  the  sounds  of  real  land-a  cock  crowing,  a  car  hooting;  for  the  rest,  we  heard  nothing  but  wind  and  sea  and  sometimes  snatches  of  conversa-  tion  from  passing  boats.  I  was  several  times  terrified  during  that  winter;  nev-  er,  I  think,  frightened.  The  boom  and  explosion  of  the  waves  breaking  along  the  wide  stretch  of  the  beach,the  snarl  of  the  pebbles  dragged  back  and  forth,  was  so  compulsive,  so  hallucinating,  that  by  dint  of  always  being  aware  of  it  I  scarcely  noticed  it.  It  was  only  when  the  sea  broke  its  own  spell,  perhaps  by  some  exceptionally  ringing  rattle  of  spray  against  the  windowpanes,  perhaps  by  one  of  those  silences  that  presage  a  wave  much  larger  than  the  others,  that  I  was  tossed  into  terror.  It  was  a  stormy  win-  ter.  We  grew  accustomed  to  being  shouted  down  by  waves,  we  grew  ac-  customed  to  being  flayed  by  winds.  It  soon  seemed  natural  to  me  that  if  I  wanted  to  empty  the  trash  basket  into  the  rubbish  pit  I  should  cross  the  hillock  on  all  fours.  It  was  much  harder  to  grow  accustomed  to  the  indoor  inclem-  encies:  to  an  unheated  kitchen  that  faced  east;  to  the  boldness  of  famishing  rats;  to  oil  lamps  that  flared  and  candles  that  guttered;  to  so  much  being  poised  on  the  edge  of  going  wrong,  like  the  petrol  en-  gine  thatraised  or  didn't  raise  the  water  supply  from  abrackish  well;  to  the  taste  of  coffee  made  with  semi-salt  water;  to  having  to  fetch  whatever  one  needed  from  inland,  often  from  quite  a  long  way  inland,  and  in  a  gale,  and  finding  the  fire  out  when  one  got  back.  Yet,  in  the  main,  we  were  intensely  happy;  the  game  dealer  in  the  market  town  sold  the  best  pheasants  I  have  ever  cooked,  and  we  had  two  bathrooms.  At  the  end  of  a  day  of  vicissitudes  it  was  a  queer  " b"Elysium  to  lie  soaking  in  that  brackish  water,  listening  to  the  assault  of  the  waves  and  to  the  steadily  screeching  wind,  and  to  reflect  that  the  water  one  lay  in  (for  even  the  pools  on  the  marsh  were  whipped  into  waves  by  the  force  of  the  gale)  was  the  one  unvexed  sur-  face  for  miles.  It  seemed  that  the  end  of  such  a  house  must  have  been  laid  with  its  foun-  dations.  Sooner  or  later,  it  was  agreed,  the  sea  would  get  the  Folly;  and  be-  cause  its  isolation  and  its  battlements  gave  it  a  particular  air  of  bulldog  pa-  nache,  it  was  assumed  that  the  close  of  the  story  would  be  dramatic.  There  was  this  much  drama.  When  the  peo-  ple  on  the  real  land  had  struggled  out  of  their  share  in  the  general  calamity-  the  tidal  inundation  of  1953  that  swept  along  the  castcoast,  up  the  Thames  estuary,  on  over  [REDACTED],  everywhere  drowning  and  destroying-and  found  time  to  look  seaward  beyond  the  sea  at  their  doors,  the  Folly  appeared  to  be  still  there.  They  sawwhat  they  had  always  seen-the  landward  aspect  of  the  house.  But  the  tide,  tugging  away  the  northern  slope  of  the  hillock,  had  brought  down  half  the  structure.  The  solid-seeming  house  was  a  shell.  That  autumn  we  went  to  look  at  it.     The  marsh  was  marsh  again,the  cause,  way  passable;  but  where  it  formerly  ran  out  in  the  fishermen's  path  down  to  the  beach  a  mass  of  heaped-up  pebbles  blocked  it,  and  we  had  to  clamber  over  this  to  get  to  the  house.  The  door  was  gone,  the  windows  were  gone.  Part  of  the  stairway  remained.  One  of  the  baths  had  come  to  rest  across  the  stair  foot.  What  was  left  of  the  front  of  the  house  stood  leaning  above  its  downfall,  with  the  unsupported  floor  of  the  upper  room  dangling  like  acrazy  shelf.  Light  poured  in  from  above  and  was  reflected  upward  from  the  water  below.  'The  sea  was  so  still  that  one  would  have  thought  it  motionless  if  the  light  reflected  from  it  had  not  danced  on  the  rent  walls  and  the  dangling  ceiling.  Another  winter  would  finish  it.  I  CHOOSE  to  hope  that  my  current  bathroom-which,  with  a  few  inter-  ims  such  as  the  Folly,  has  been  my  bath-  room  for  over  twenty  years-will  peacefully  survive  me.  It  is  a  trifle  too  small-but  it  holds  everything  I  want  it  to  hold,  including  Burton's  &quot;Anato-  my  of  Melancholy,&quot;  which  I  intend  to  finish  in  time,  and  then  I  shall  probably  goon  to  Lemprigre's  Classical  Diction-  ary;  it  faces  west,  and  ideally  a  bathroom  can  see  herons  fly  past  the  window  and  listen  to  moorhens  squabbling  like  the  church  workers  they  so  closely  resemble;  it  is  quite  undistin-  guished-but  happy  is  the  bathroom  that  has  no  history.  Having  said  that,  I  immediately  rec-  ollect  that  it  contains  a  particle  of  history-a  minute  gem,  but  au-  thentic.  During  the  war,  we  had  two  Amer-  ican  soldiers  billeted  on  us.  They  were  young  Irishmen,  of  gigantic  strength,  and  between  them-they  intimated  that  it  was  a  joint  ef-  fort-they  broke  off  the  knob  of  the  basin  cold-  water  tap.  There  was  a  kind  of  Ombudsman  with  the  detachment,  and  to  him  I  went,  and  represented  that  it  was  inconvenient  to  have  no  means,  short  of  aspan-  ner,  of  turning  cold  wa-  ter  on  and  off.  At  first  he  inclined  to  the  view  that  in  times  of  war  one  must  accept  trifling  inconveniences.  I  put  it  home  to  him  that  everyone  knew  that  the  [REDACTED]  forces  had  brought  enor-  mous  stores  with  them,  and  were  self-  supporting  as  no  other  army  had  ever  been,  and  complete  with  every  amenity  except  washing  machines  and  mothers.  Touched  in  his  pride,  he  said  it  should  be  seen  to.  Seen  to  it  was.  A  tap  was  supplied  and  fixed,  a  gem  of  history  was  incorporated.  On  one  side  of  the  washbasin  is  the  original  tap,  lettered  &quot;HOT&quot;  in  black  capitals  on  a  white  enamel  ground.  On  the  other  is  the  replacement-a  plain,  soldierly  affair,  stamped  with  a  capital  &quot;H.&quot;  To  me,  of  course,  the  distinction  is  perfectly  clear. "