 b"IN  1915,  Ilived  in  the  5000  block       of  Ellis  Avenue  on  [REDACTED]'s  South  Side.  It  was  a  comfortable  neigh-  borhood  ofbig  square  brick  houses  on  the  corners  of  the  block  and  gray  stone  houses  in  the  middle.  The  county  judge  lived  in  one  house,  a  brewer  in  another,  and  there  was  a  sprinkling  of  doctors,  college  professors,  and  lawyers,  along  with  a  portrait  painter  and  even  two  millionaires.  I  was  nine  years  old  that  Christmas.  It  was  the  year  of  Henry  Ford's  Peace  Ship  to  Europe  and  of  the  Lusitania.  A  third  vessel  was  briefly  in  the  news-  something  called  the  Christmas  Ship.  One  of  its  sponsors  wrote  a  book  about  it.  She  was  a  bighearted,  big-chested  woman,  now  forgotten.  All  I  remem-  ber  of  her  was  that  her  first  name  was  Lillian  and  she  came  to  speak  at  our  school,  a  boys'  day  academy  on  Forty-  seventh  Street.  We  worked  long  hours  in  the  manual-training  room  as  a  result,  repairing  and  painting  old  toys  to  be  sent  as  Christmas  gifts  to  boys  and  girls  in  war-torn  [REDACTED]  and  northern  [REDACTED].  It  was  in  1915  that  I  saw  the  first  man  in  our  neighborhood  wearing  a  wristwatch.  He  was  an  English  in-  structor  at  the  University  of  [REDACTED],  and  had  just  returned  from  six  months'  service  as  a  volunteer  ambulance  driver  at  the  front.  Up  to  this  time,  no  Ameri-  can  male  would  have  worn  a  wristwatch  in  public  for  a  hundred  dollars.  In  fact,  most  people  called  them  &quot;watch-brace-  lets.&quot;  Then  we  heard  that  avia-  torsin  the  Lafayette  Escadrille  wore  them,  and  suddenly  every  boy  on  the  block  wanted  a  wrist,  watch  for  Christmas.  I  didn't  get  a  wristwatch  that  year.  But  I  got  something  I  liked  even  better.  It  was  an  Irish  Mail.  I  wonder  what  ever  happened  to  the  Irish  Mails.  They  were  the  most  won-  derful  four-wheeled  vehicles  for  boys  ever  invented.  'They  were  powered  by  juvenile  muscle,  and  &quot;Junie&quot;  Wood-  head,  who  lived  three  doors  north  of  me  on  Ellis  Avenue,  was  actually  clocked  at  nearly  twenty  miles  an  hour  on  an  Irish  Mail  by  the  track  coach  of  the  uni-  versity.  It  was  the  custom  on  our  block  when  driving  an  Irish  Mail  to  wear  a  cap  with  a  bill  and  to  turn  it  around  backwards.  Otherwise,  we  believed,  air  friction  would  tear  it  off  the  driver's  head.  The  driver  sat  upon  a  bright-  yellow  plank  of  laminated  birch,  which  had  the  words  &quot;Irish  Mail&quot;  enamelled  on  it  in  red,  white,  and  blue.  He  placed  his  feet  on  a  steering  bar  connected  to  the  front  axle  of  the  machine.  The  axle  terminated  at  either  end  in  a  shiny,  wire-spoked  wheel  with  a  large  nickel  hubcap  and  a  solid-rubber  tire.  Sticking  up  between  the  driver's  knees  was  a  nickel-plated  lever,  topped  by  wooden  handles.  The  driver  grasped  these  han-  dles  and,  pushing  and  pulling,  and  lean-  ing  way  forward  and  back,  like  an  oars-  man,  he  propelled  the  vehicle  forward.  The  secret  of  the  Irish  Mail's  amaz-  ing  speed  lay  in  its  devilish  mechanical  efficiency.  The  lower  end  of  the  driv-  ing  lever  joined  a  horizontal  connecting  rod  that  turned  an  outsize  crank  un-  der  the  driver's  seat.  This  crank  was  attached  eccentrically  to  an  immense  sprocket  wheel.  And  this  wheel  finally  engaged  a  much  smaller  gear  on  the  machine's  rear  axle.  For  this  reason,  the  Irish  Mail  was  very  hard  to  start,  even  harder  to  stop,  and  built  up  a  rela-  tively  enormous  speed.  Once  rolling,  it  travelled  like  a  runaway  locomotive  and  looked  like  a  dry-land  rowboatgone  crazy.  It  was  probably  no  accident  that  many  boys  who  owned  these  racing  con-  traptions  went  out  for  crew  in  college.  Compared  to  an  Irish  Mail,  an  eight-  oared  shell  was  a  cinch.  I  well  remember  my  first  ride  onan  Irish  Mail-one  belonging  to  an  eleven-  year-old  boy  who  lived  around  the  block  on  Drexel  Boulevard.  While  a  group  of  companions  looked  on,  I  sat  down,  put  my  feet  on  the  steering  bar,  turned  my  cap  around,  firmly  grasped  the  handles  of  the  driving  lever,  and  pulled  with  all  my  strength.  Nothing  hap-  pened.  I  tried  again.  The  ma-  chine  didn't  budge.  &quot;'You've  got  her  in  dead  center!&quot;  yelled  one  of  the  on-  lookers,  meaning  that  the  con-  necting  rod  was  at  the  end  of  its  stroke  and,  ineffect,  locked  against  further  motion.  He  got  behind  me  and  pushed  the  vehicle  forward  about  four  inches.  &quot;Now  try  it!&quot;  he  said.  I  yanked  on  the  lever  once  more  and  in  three  seconds  was  racing  down  the  sidewalk,  headed  forthe  Drews'  big  elm  tree.  I  tried  to  halt  the  lever,  which  was  waving  back  and  forth  between  my  legs  like  a  semaphore.  It  almost  pitched  me  off  the  machine.  There  were  no  brakes  onan  Irish  Mail,  and  I  had  to  do  a  right-angled  turn  on  three  wheels  up  Mr.  Warden's  cement  driveway  be-  fore  I  could  stop,  a  full  forty  feet  from  the  street.  Nineteen-fifteen  seemed  to  be  a  Christmas  for  wheeled  vehicles  on  our  part  of  Ellis  Avenue.  Dad  bought  the  family  a  [REDACTED]-built  Winton  Six  that  year.  He  also  bought  a  bicycle  for  " b"our  part-time  gardener,  furnace  stoker,  and  window  cleaner.  This  handyman  was  known  as  Old  Man  Louie  by  every  boy  on  the  block.  He  had  been  born  a  slave  and  claimed  he  had  been  a  congressman  from  [REDACTED]  during  the  Reconstruction.  He  worked  for  several  families  on  Ellis,  and  one  of  his  jobs  was  cranking  up  Dr.  Kress's  Mitchell  every  morning.  Dr.  Kress  would  sit  at  the  wheel  while  Louie  flipped  the  engine  over.  They  would  eventually  get  it  started,  though  usually  not  until  Louie  straightened  up  and  said,  &quot;Doctor,  you  got  to  retard  your  spark.  That  is  what  Itold  the  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Representatives,  Thirty-ninth  Congress,  second  session.&quot;  Louie  had  worked  for  us  for  years;  I  suppose  my  father  figured  that  buying  him  a  bicycle  would  be  cheaper  than  carfare  in  the  long  run.  He  was  right,  for  Louie  ped-  alled  up  to  our  house  five  days  a  week  until  1925.  Under  the  tree  on  Christmas,  1915,  my  younger  sister  found  a  girl's  tricycle.  It  was  a  pedal-operated  affair  and  had  a  seat  of  olive-green  velveteen  with  a  yellow  design  on  it.  The  driver  sat  be-  tween  two  large  rear  wheels  and  steered  with  a  long  lever  attached  to  a  small  wheel  in  front.  'The  whole  thing  looked  a  little  like  an  invalid's  wheelchair,  and  a  boy  wouldn't  have  been  caught  dead  on  one  unless  he  was  clowning.  During  most  of  1915,  even  after  the  Lusitania  sinking,  quite  a  few  people  on  our  block  were  pro-German.  Mr.  Schwartz,  the  brewer,  was  one.  My  father  said  Mr.  Schwartz  had  an  oil  painting  of  Otto  Eduard  Leopold  von  Bismarck  in  his  office.  Whenever  a  new  boy  visited  our  street,  he  was  asked,  &quot;Who  are  you  for,  the  Allies  or  the  Germans?&quot;  The  word  &quot;Allies&quot;  was  always  pronounced  like  &quot;alleys&quot;  by  nine-year-old  boys  in  1915,  radio  an-  nouncers  being  still  seven  or  eight  years  in  the  future.  Whatever  the  visitor  an-  swered,  the  leaders  of  one  side  orthe  other  had  a  clear  excuse  for  beating  him  up  while  both  sets  of  sympathizers  looked  on.  Block  loyalty  came  before  international  politics.  As  the  Christmas  holidays  ended,  in  the  New  Year  of  1916,  the  Kaiser's  supporters  began  to  capitulate.  By  spring  vacation,  there  wasn't  a  single  pro-German  boy  on  the  entire  block.  And  it  was  during  spring  vacation  that  the  war,  my  sister's  tri-  cycle,  and  the  Irish  Mail  all  blended  to  bring  a  measure  of  fleeting  fame  to  Ellis  Avenue.  [REDACTED].  STroNnE's  vacant  lot,  just  south  of  my  house,  had  always  been  the  site  of  circuses,  ball  games,  foot  races," b" bottle  fights,  and  whatever  else  we  could  dream  up.  In  April,  it  became  the  Western  Front.  We  had  all  seen  pic-  tures  and  diagrams  of  trenches,  parapets,  paradoses,  dugouts,  and  barbed  wire,  and  we  all  got  the  same  idea  at  the  same  time.  In  two  days,  we  built  a  fairly  recognizable  replica  of  a  sector  at  Ver-  dun,  Across  an  eighty-foot  stretch  we  dug  a  front-line  trench,  five  feet  deep  and  complete  with  zigs  and  zags.  We  chopped  sundry  loopholes  in  the  parapet  for  snipers  at  stand-to,  and  added  a  communication  trench  and  a  dugout  that  was  really  a  trompe-Poeil,  since  it  led  nowhere  and  was  only  a  niche  cut  six  inches  deep  in  the  back  trench  wall  and  covered  with  a  &quot;gas  alarm&quot;  blan-  ket.  Barbed  wire  was  out.  The  neigh-  borhood  mothers  denied  us  this  realism.  But  we  had  duckboards  to  walk  on,  and  even  painted  signs  that  read,  &quot;Aid  Station\xe2\x80\x9d  and  &quot;Ammunition  Dump  2  &quot;BOYS  TRANSFORM  PRAIRIE&quot;  read  a  headline  in  the  South  Side  News.  In  [REDACTED],  in  1916,  every  vacant  lot  was  a  prairie.  We  had  guns  (wooden  dummies  with  bolt  actions,  bought  at  Marshall  Field's  and  affixed  with  rubber  bayo-  nets),  we  had  grenades  that  were  paper  bags  filled  with  flour,  we  had  impro-  vised  stretchers,  we  even  had  khaki  uni-  forms.  But  we  had  no  artillery,  no  cannon,  and  it  seemed  beyond  our  knowledge  to  make  any.  Then,  on  the  third  day  of  spring  vacation,  Artie  Peterson  yelled,  &quot;I  got  an  idea,&quot;  and  ran  for  my  sister's  tricycle  and  his  own  [REDACTED]  Slugger  baseball  bat.  We  painted  the  bat  dead  black.  We  stuck  it  across  the  seat  of  the  tricycle,  handle  to  the  rear,  and  tied  it  fast  with  black-dyed  clothesline.  The  steering  lever,  pulled  over  to  the  front  and  low-  ered  to  the  ground,  made  a  surprisingly  authentic  trail.  We  had  our  cannon.  All  we  lacked  now  was  horses  to  pull  it,  because  boys  of  ten  were  too  conscious  of  their  dignity  to  act  as  horses  even  in  the  service  of  their  country.  And  foot  soldiers  didn't  drag  guns  around  by  brute  strength;  this  was  long  before  Hemingway  or  C.  S.  Forester.  &quot;Let's  hitch  up  the  Irish  Mail  to  it  and  pull  it  that  way,&quot;  said  one  boy.  It  didn't  look  right  or  natural,  but  we  hitched  up  the  Irish  Mail  to  the  tricycle,  using  more  clothesline,  and  then  Lee  Kress,  who  was  driver,  cannoneer,  and  battery  commander,  began  manipulat-  ingthe  vertical  driver's  lever,  and  the  tricycle,  with  its  attached  baseball  bat,  trundled  along  obediently.  We  were  thus  able  to  roll  our  cannon  to  any  de-  sired  spot  along  our  eighty-foot  front.  On  the  fourth  day  of  spring  vacation," b"Bob  Gay,  a  student  at  the  university,  stopped  by  to  watch.  &quot;Nice  cannon,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Where  are  your  horses?&quot;  &quot;We  don't  use  horses,&quot;  said  Lee.  &quot;We  use  trucks.&quot;  Bob  jeered.  &quot;That's  not  the  way  to  do  it,&quot;  he  said,  and  strolled  off.  &quot;Go  tell  a  policeman  to  call  a  cop!&quot;  we  yelled  after  him.  &quot;Go  tell  your  mother  she  wants  you!&quot;  On  the  fifth  day  of  spring  vacation,  Paul  Hummel's  father,  who  was  a  law-  yer  for  the  [REDACTED]  Herald,  came  by  with  a  reporter  and  a  photographer.  And  in  Sunday's  paper  there  was  a  pic-  ture-Lee,  driving  the  Irish  Mail  and  pulling  the  cannon;  Paul,  on  the  para-  pet,  charging  with  a  fixed  bayonet;  Artic,  staring  at  the  camera  and  grin-  ning;  I,  crouching  and  waving  a  gre-  nade.  Spring  vacation  ended,  and  we  went  back  to  school.  'That  summer,  we  played  ball  in  [REDACTED]  Park  and  forgot  about  our  trenches.  Christmas,  1916,  came  and  I  got  my  wristwatch.  In  1917,  we  were  all  Boy  Scouts  and  selling  Liberty  Bonds  to  help  the  Kaiser  lose  his  war.  Arthur  Guy  Empey's  &quot;Over  the  Top&quot;  was  a  best-seller.  Christmas  that  year  in  [REDACTED]  was  the  big  snow.  All  I  remember  are  the  seven-  foot  drifts  and  the  tunnels  we  dug  through  them.  Almost  everyone  caught  the  flu  that  winter,  and  Mr.  Hummel  died.  In  the  late  summer  of  1918,  we  got  a  snapshot  from  [REDACTED],  passed  by  the  censor,  with  a  letter  from  Bob  Gay.  The  picture  showed  him,  almost  un-  recognizable  in  muddy  uniform,  sitting  on  the  fender  of  a  camion,  a  French  truck,  and  three  or  four  other  soldiers  lounging  nearby.  The  camion  was  hitched  to  a  seventy-five-millimetre  field  gun.  Across  the  top  of  the  photo  Bob  had  written,  &quot;First  motorized  artillery  unit  in  the  A.E.F.&quot;  At  the  bottom  he  had  added,  &quot;Guess  where  we  got  the  idea?  I  am  writing  President  Wilson  to  send  you  all  a  citation.&quot;  Something  must  have  gone  wrong  with  Bob's  letter  to  the  President,  be-  cause  we  never  got  the  citation  from  [REDACTED].  And  we  felt  that  at  the  very  least  we  should  have  heard  from  General  Pershing.  We  had  given  him  an  idea  that  had  helped  wallop  the  Kaiser.  Some  of  us  thought  so  until  1921,  and  a  couple  of  us  were  sure  of  it  as  late  as  1923."