 b"MArcus  WrItt  has  said  he  is  M  chiefly  concerned  with  virtue  and  death  in  the  movies  he  makes,  but  the  truth  is  that  his  usual  theme  is  that  we  are  not  capable  of  much  virtue  because  we  are  afraid  of  death.  He  would  have  us  believe  that  we  flee  from  logic  and  order  because  they  remind  us  that  we  must  die,  while  illogic  and  dis-  order  soothe  us  by  proving  that  nothing  makes  sense,  that  nothing  is  certain,  not  even  death.  In  his  movie,  &quot;La  Nouvelle  Cl\xc3\xa9opitre  en  Avignon,&quot;  the  narrator  says,  &quot;Do  not  be  cross  because  our  char-  acters  do  not  always  have  the  same  faces;  they  are  being  true  to  life  and  death.&quot;  The  narrator  says,  &quot;We  hope  to  demon-  strate  not  Euclidean  but  mortal  geom-  etry,  the  grand  trickery  of  theorems  we  place  in  nature  and  find  there  for  our  own  delight.&quot;  So  the  image  exists  for 43616e616461us.  In  &quot;La  Nouvelle  Cl\xc3\xa9opitre  en  Avignon,&quot;  the  heroine  bends  over  her  lover.  One  hears  aclock  and  the  hero-  ine's  breath;  one  sees  the  drowsy  pulse,  the  lecherous  tic  beside  her  lover's  eye  and  the  heroine's  finger  stealing  out  to  touch  it.  'The  narrator  says,  &quot;Is  it  not  time  for  her  to  guess  that  the  flesh  is  a  clock,  an  unrenewable  clock?&quot;  The  narrator  says,  &quot;It  is  anaxiom  in  the  mortal  geometry  that  the  noise  of  a  quarrel  will  drown  the  sound  of  all  the  clocks  in  a  room.&quot;  When  the  lovers  quarrel,  we  are  not  permitted  to  hear  what  they  say;  we  see  their  faces  change  and  we  see  that  from  moment  to  mo-  ment  they  are  different  people.  The  narrator  says,  &quot;Uncertainty  increases  their  passion,&quot;  and  the  scene  of  reconcil-  iation  is  the  most  passionate  in  the  movie.  The  hero  lies  asleep.  'The  heroine  enters   his  room  and  wakes  him  with  her  kisses  and  her  tears.  He  opens  his  eyes  and  abruptly  she  ceases  to  cry  and  moves  her  head  until  she  and  her  lover  are  face  to  face;  then  she  assumes  adizzying,  not  quite  convincing-so  bright  is  it-smile.  The  camera  is  suddenly  a  great  distance  from  the  bed;  the  lovers  embrace  in  a  room  with  melting  walls.  'Trees  appear,  their  branches  agitated  as  in  a  summer  storm.  Among  the  trees,  lions  and  mon-  keys  and  snakes  and  tigers  glide  and  prowl  or  sit  or  crouch  or  sleep.  Shadows  are  flung  back  and  forth;  in  the  room,  the  shadows  have  the  fish  shapes  of  ter-  ror.  The  lovers  on  their  bed  are  figurines  inside  a  cracked  glass  bell,  a  thin,  cracked  glass  arbor  in  the  middle  of  a  wind-torn,  window-haunted  garden.  The  heroine  cries  out,  &quot;Ah,God,  I  am  so  happy,&quot;  and  the  scene  ends.  43616e616461us  is  thickset,  temperamental,  good-looking.  He  has  made  five  movies  in  [REDACTED],  one  in  [REDACTED],  two  in  4974616c79,  one  in  [REDACTED].  Four  of  his  movies  have  been  shown  in  this  country  with  consid-  erable  critical  and  public  acclaim,  one  with  no  acclaim.  Exhibitors  would  like  to  show  the  others,  but  43616e616461us  is  care-  less  and  somewhat  grasping  about  mon-  ey,  and  he  has  signed  too  many  con-  tracts:  who  is  privileged  to  sell  what,  who  is  to  receive  what  is  under  litigation  in  three  countries.  He  was  born  in  New  York  and  often  uses  as  backgrounds  vistas  of  a  city-distant,  seen  through  windows,  light-struck,  overexposed,  re-  sembling  the  sun-washed  backgrounds,  pale  and  geometrical,  of  early  Renais-  sance  paintings:  Piero  della  4672616e6365sca  and  Botticelli;  against  such  backgrounds  his  people  move  in  simplified  costumes,  linear,  eyes  and  mouths  like  pebbles,  and  dominant.  He  is  a  Jew.  He  avoids  dia-  logue  in  his  movies  if  he  can.  In  life,  he  experiences  very  little  simply  and  direct-  ly;  nothing  is  merely  itself.  &quot;For  me,&quot;  he  has  said,  &quot;it  is  like  the  glass  walls  in  that  place  in  Proust-the  restaurant  reflected  in  its  own  walls,  and  the  diners,  and  through  the  glass  the  flowers  outside.&quot;  A  kiss  is  a  moment-heavy,  round,  a  melon;  the  sharp  abridgment  of  isola-  tion  is  a  knife  into  the  melon,  parting  the  tough  skin;  the  soft  pastel  interior  appears.  Lo,  it  is  hollow.  In  the  hol-  low,  seeds.  His  emotion  for  a  woman  tends  in  the  early  stages  to  be  formal  and  dark.  It  is  as  if  he  were  practicing  one  of  the  early  religions  with  super-  stition  and  awe.  But  later  she  becomes  a  girl  (or  two  of  them)  he  used  to  know,  or  a  bucket  too  small  for  the  live  fish  in  it,  or  the  Rond  Point:  tour-  ists,  garishness,  art  moderne,  flowers,  fountains,  all  of  it.  He  cannot  evade  this  elaboration  of  the  sensual  event;  " b"it  is  a  circumstance  of  his  existence.  A  movie  is  to  him  primarily  an  arrange-  ment  of  recognitions,  an  all\xc3\xa9e  laid  out  so  that  at  every  step  what  is  be-  ing  seen  alters  the  sense  of  what  has  been  seen.  The  audience  must  be  paradoxically  surprised  by  logic,  as  if  logic  were  unpredictable.  Success  is  to  have  the  audience  accept  the  conclusion  in  the  full  pride  of  having  recognized  the  geom-  etry  that  caused  it.  At  the  end  of  the  film  comes  a  recognition  that  the  all\xc3\xa9e  could  lead  nowhere  but  to  this.  In  4974616c79,  about  to  com-  mence  shooting  on  &quot;Rencontre  du  Voy-  age,&quot;  he  says,  &quot;'The  be-  ginning  will  be  very  simple.  She  is  in  the  Sistine  Chapel,  in  a  crowd  of  tourists,  look-  ing  up  at  the  ceiling.  She  is  sad  and  restless  and  frightened  in  that  crowd,  looking  at  that  ceiling.  Then  we  know  her.  ...&quot;  He  speaks  slowly,  asthmatically  breathing  through  his  mouth,  at  breakfast  on  the  terrace  of  the  large  villa  outside  4974616c79  his  backers  have  rented  for  him.  The  movie  is  to  go  be-  fore  the  cameras  in  an  hour.  Below  the  terrace  lie  a  largely  untended  garden  and  a  swimming  pool,  and,  beyondan  uneven  hedge  of  oleanders,  greenish-  yellow  fields  (a  sunburned  golf  course),  and  the  hills  leading  to  Rocca  di  Papa;  in  the  middle  distance  are  the  ruins  of  the  Claudian  Aqueduct.  It  is  not  quite  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  some  cool-  ness  remains  in  the  air  from  the  night,  but  it  is  unsubstantial,  wispy,  and  will  soon  disappear.  From  the  head  of  the  table,  he  ad-  dresses  his  writer,  Loesser;  his  camera-  man,  Alliat;  and  his  stars,  Jehane  Duret  and  Oskar  Haase.  (43616e616461us's  family-  his  children  and  his  housekeeper-com-  panion-are  in  [REDACTED];  he  has  brought  only  his  valet.)  Jehane  Duret  is  his  mis-  tress,  but  the  affair  is  dying.  She  is  tall,  with  a  taut  body,  a  broad,  self-assertive  mouth.  &quot;You  are  both  restless,&quot;  he  says  to  Jehane  and  &quot;Oskar  le  Beau&quot;  the  French  papers  call  him.  &quot;They-  You  must  see  this  thing  about  them.&quot;  He     has  trouble  finding  words.  &quot;They  are  or-  dinary-not  in  looks  ...  not  in  soul  .  ..  but  in  the  guesses  they  make.  .  ..&quot;  His  voice  trails  off.  His  auditors  stare  at  him  with  incomprehension.  He  frowns.  He  says  pleadingly,  &quot;One  could  photograph  them  anywhere.  In  front  of  a  depart-  ment-store  window  -they  would  look  suitable  there!&quot;  His  audience  stirs,  sens-  ing  something  performable;  theywait  for  further  instruction.  43616e616461us  jumps  up.  &quot;Look.  Look,  I  will  show  you.&quot;  He  is  a  poor  actor;  there  was  a  time  when  he  tried  to  act,  but  no  matter  what  part  he  was  assigned  he  was  onstage  merely  an  over-intense,  large-eyed  young  man  anxious  to  be  an  actor.  He  embarks  on  a  pantomime.  His  smile  fades;  he  looks  bored,  distant;  he  wrinkles  his  mouth,  knits  his  fingers.  A  maid  hurries  out  of  the  villa,  her  shoes  loud  on  the  stone  pavement;  ob-  serving  the  pantomime,  she  tiptoes  the  last  few  feet,  a  finger  to  her  lips  signi-  fying  she  does  not  intend  to  say  a  word,  and  she  slips  a  cablegram  into  43616e616461us's  hand.  43616e616461us  shrugs  and  resumes  his  pantomime,  turning  in  a  slow  circle  un-  til  he  confronts  the  striking  view  -the  slow,  yellow-brown  descent  of  the  fields  to  the  aqueduct  and  the  skirts  of  the  bluish  hills  rising  to  Rocca  di  Papa.  He  hopefully  scowls,  reaches  out  his  arms,  turns  away,  head  drooping.  It  is  a  lu-  dicrous  performance.  Loesser,  the  writ-  er,  says  in  a  low  voice,  &quot;Isolated-sen-  sually  and  personally.  Trapped.  Unable  to  feel.&quot;  Oskar  Haase  exclaims,  &quot;Je!  Gut!&quot;  He  nods,  but  he  looks  eager  to  please  rather  than  penetrated  by  under-  standing.  Jehane's  eyes  are  shut,  prob-  ably  with  embarrassment  at  43616e616461us's  performance.  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;They  feel  this  way  in  front  of  expensive  automobiles  and  mov-  ie  theatres.  Their  guesses  are  crooked.&quot;  Oskar  and  Jehane  sit  up,  actors'  shrewd-  ness  and  voracity  in  their  eyes.  'The  ca-  blegram  rustles  in  43616e616461us's  hand.  &quot;So  you  are  very  restless,&quot;  he  instructs  them,  adding,  &quot;and  cold.  If  there  is  no  self-  pity,  you  cannot  pity  others.&quot;  He  turns  to  the  cablegram.  It  is  from  [REDACTED],  from  his  stepmother,  and  states:  &quot;NAN-  " b"NA  DIED  IN  SLEEP  LAST  NIGHT  FU-  NERAL'  TWO-THIRTY  B'NAI  SHOLOM  BOSTON  SEVENTH  JUNE.&quot;  The  sun  lies  heavily  on  43616e616461us's  white  shirt;  dampness  wells  from  the  ochre  walls  of  the  villa.  &quot;Qu'est-ce  que  cest?&quot;  Jehane  asks.  &quot;Ma  grandm\xc3\xa9re  est  morte.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  pauvre  petit,&quot;  Jehane  says.  Her  actress's  face  plunges  into  sympa-  thy,  the  muscles  of  the  strong,  self-as-  sertive  lips  loosen,  the  eyes  grow  sombre.  It  is  a  familiar  sight;  she  has  stayed  up  with  him  for  long  nights  on  lawns,  in  rooms:  &quot;I  cannot  sleep.&quot;  &quot;Pewure  [REDACTED].  Shall  we  play  cards?&quot;  &quot;I  am  too  nervous  for  cards.  The  picture  is  not  growing.  La  mort  vient  et  je  suis  nu.&quot;  He  is  afraid  of  being  tired  the  next  day,  but  he  fears  death  more  and  cannot  sleep.  &quot;I've  taken  three  Seconal,  but  they  don't  work.&quot;  Jehane  has  walked  with  him  for  hours  in  the  city,  among  lampposts:  &quot;Our  orchard,&quot;  43616e616461us  calls  them.  He  can  always  sleep  after  dawn.  Jehane  is  thin-shouldered,  long-  necked.  Her  hair  is  straight,  an  arras.  The  famous  eyes  ripen  with  emotion,  and  43616e616461us  scowls,  wanting  to  discour-  age  her;  shooting  is  about  to  begin.  He  has  no  intention  of  being  upset  because  a  cablegram  has  announced  that  Nanna  is  dead.  He  hears-it  is  imaginary-a  metallic  clang,a  corrugated  metal  door  sliding  shut,  rollers  spinning  in  the  curved  tracks  (he  sees  them);  the  door  bangs.  What  was  a  doorway  is  as  solid  as  a  wall.  Fingertips  creep  along  the  bottom  edge  of  the  door,  work  it  upan  inch  or  two;  is  this  memory?  Nanna's  neatly  waved,  short  gray  hair,  like  ribs  of  grayish-brown  sand.  She  is  a  rich  woman,&quot;  he  says,  care-  less  of  his  tenses.  &quot;Perhaps  she's  left  me  her  fortune.&quot;  His  senses  bucket  uneasily  on  the  tide  of  sunlight.  43616e616461us  ridestheir  plunging  momentum,  legs  braced,  paunch  dis-  tending  his  belt;  the  figures  at  the  table  are  cut  about  withshadows.  His  eyes,  his  nose,  the  features  of  his  face  are  full-  formed,  fleshy;  nothing  in  his  face  is  skimped  or  in  short  supply:  not  flesh,  not  shapeliness,  not  intelligence.  The  thick  quarter-moons  of  his  eyelids  blink  rap-  idly  over  the  strained  eyes.  To  control  the  blinking  he  squints.  He  does  not  want  his  actors  to  be  distracted  or  alien-  ated.  Actors  are  sentimental,  harshly  ceremonial  like  children,  and,  like  chil-  dren,  suspicious;  should  they  be  put  off,  they  will  disbelieve  his  judgment,  they  will  evade  his  will,  commit  surprises  in  front  of  the  camera.  &quot;She  was  not  very  kind  to  me.  Or  to  my  mother,&quot;  he  says  sternly.  To  his  mother,  no.  Noreen  was  pretty,  long-limbed;  her  hair  was  gold  red.  His  mother,  Noreen.  A  gay,  laughing  Irish  girl-so  she  saw  herself-bringing  love  and  joy  and  religious  truth  into  her  husband's  family.  Pretty  Noreen  said,  &quot;I've  always  admired  Jews,  their  close  family  life.&quot;  She  was  taken  by  surprise.  Her  husband's  rich  German-French  Jewish  family  looked  askance  at  the  gift  of  love  and  joy  brought  by  religious  truth-intensities  and  rivalries  and  ev-  erything  ugly  breathed  out  through  the  confessional  as  through  a  whale's  spout.  They  practiced  self-cultivation  and  seri-  ousness  and  owned  to  a  bewildering  complexity  of  attitudes  and  rites.  It  seemed  that  they  already  had  a  religion.  Noreen  sat,  laughed,  displayed  her  jolli-  ty,  showed  off  her  full  trousseau  of  be-  liefs  on  all  matters,  her  acceptance  of  Jews,  and  her  in-laws  watched  herpo-  litely,  with  good-natured  patience  until  they  grew  bored,  and  then  they  ignored  her.  The  child  43616e616461us  looked  on,  and  thought  of  a  [REDACTED]  that  danced  and  threw  out  streamers  to  dancers  who  would  not  move  to  pick  them  up.  No-     -Howarp  Moss  reen  drank  a  good  deal.  &quot;Oh,  it's  four  o'clock!  I'm  in  the  mood  for  a  drinkie.  Anyone  else  want  a  drinkie,  too?&quot;  Mar-  cus,  catching  Nanna's  eyes  studying  him,  realized  that  in  some  lights  he  ap-  peared  ordinary,  a  doubtful  quantity.  43616e616461us  abruptly  sits  down  at  the  ta-  ble.  The  others,  to  scothe  their  uneasi-  ness,  talk  of  their  grandmothers;  Oskar  mentions  a  Grossmutter  killed  in  the  bombing  of  [REDACTED],  Loesser  a  grand-  mother  who  played  pinochle  with  her  nurse  between  attacks  of  angina.  Mar-  cus  listens.  Nanna  walked  with  her  sons  after  dinner  at  Scantuate,  in  the  garden,  above  the  sea.  The  flag  crackled  bluster-  ingly  on  the  flagpole.  The  children  in  a  crowd  went  out  at  dusk  to  lower  it.  Nanna  was  small,  well  formed,  neat  gray-brown-beside  Noreen  a  thrush  next  to  a  flamingo.  She  wore  dark  floral-print  dresses  that  had  no  particu-  lar  style,  and  hair  nets;  she  did  not  like  to  have  her  hair  disarranged.  43616e616461us  sees  her  old-woman's  hair,  grown  long  during  illness,  blowing  loose,  uncon-  strained;  her  uncapturable  minnow  eyes-he  had  never  as  a  child  managed  to  control  them,  hold  them,  as  he  wished,  to  his  will:  (One  day  when  he  was  five,  he  knelt  by  the  ornamental  pool  in  the  garden.  &quot;Are  you  trying  to  catch  fish,  Markie?&quot;  He  shook  his  head.  &quot;I  can't.  They  won't  let  me  catch  them&quot;)-and  her  round  cheeks,  and  the  small  almond  chin  that  was  the  focus  of  her  old-woman's  prettiness,  and  the  thin,  always  somewhat  awry,  intelligent  lips  are  as  constrained  and  without  vi-  vacity  as  if,  in  a  game  of  turnabout,  they  have  been  netted  and  her  hair  has  been  set  free.  Her  face-to  him  a  creature,  " b"like  a  marmoset-has  been  extinguished.  Jehane  has  told  a  story  of  her  grand-  mother  bidding  her  obey  the  nuns  at  school  or  risk  hell-fire,  and  now  she  leans  her  head  on  43616e616461us's  shoulder;  sweat  breaks  out  on  43616e616461us's  skin.  He  does  not  want  to  be  consoled.  He  is  con-  cerned  with  facts.  A  fact  is,  he  is  not  grief-stricken.  Another  fact:  Nanna  will  not  again  give  her  letters  to  Nils,  the  chauffeur,  to  mail.  Nor  write  checks.  NANNA  wrote  checks  in  such  num-  bers  that  one  could  not  see  a  checkbook  without  thinking  of  her.  &quot;Markie,&quot;  Noreen  said,  &quot;Nanna's  sent  you  another  check.&quot;  Nanna's  emanation  arrived  in  the  small  apartment  in  New  [REDACTED]  where  he  lived  with  Noreen  after  her  divorce  from  his  father.  They  brought  privileges:  clothes  and  les-  sons-riding,  tennis,  piano-summer  camp,  books;  a  bicycle,  a  cashmere  scarf,  a  globe  of  the  world  for  Christ-  mas.  Nanna's  checks  made  him  special,  separated  him  from  the  other  children  in  the  block  of  shabby  apartments.  Nanna  wished  her  grandsons  and  grand-  daughters  to  pursue  interests,  hobbm  projects;  hobbies,  followed  seriously,  be-  came  distinctions.  Nanna  believed  a  Weill  was,  by  definition,  able.  To  go  to  see  Nanna  was  to  have  a  darkroom  in  the  large  cellar  beneath  the  house  at  Scantuate,  the  wails  of  which  thrummed  when  the  waves  broke  on  the  bluff  on  a  stormy  day.  Was  to  have  Nanna  look  at  him  again,  reconsider  him.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  go  away  to  school?&quot;  He  went  to  Andover  on  Nanna's  checks  like  a  north-woods  boy  on  snowshoes.  The  doctors  who  tended  him  that  spring,  when  the  nervousness  he'd  suffered  at  school  turned  into  pneumonia,  said  he  must  have  sun,  air,  and  untroubled  rest.  He  spent  the  summer  at  Scantuate  with  Nanna.  Nanna  said,  &quot;I  would  like  to  buy  you  a  present.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;I  am  very  happy  you  could  let  me  come.  'That's  a  present.  I  don't  want  anything  else.&quot;  He  could  not  look  at  her  directly;  it  seemed  a  hand  that  signed  a  check  could  circumscribe  a  heart.  He  absorbed  calm  from  the  brown,  ugly  house,  the  carpet-  ed  rooms,  among  the  Chinese  bronzes.  &quot;&quot;You  should  be  outside-swimming.&quot;  He  said,  \xe2\x80\x9cI  thought  maybe  you  wanted  company.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;Later.  You  must  have  exercise,  43616e616461us.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Dear  Mother,&quot;  he  wrote,  &quot;I  am  fine.  I  am  well.  I  miss  you.&quot;  He  wanted  to  be  polite.  He  made  two  comic  books,  litho-  graphing  the  pictures.  One  comic  book  was  &quot;Madame  Bovary;&quot;  one  was  &quot;Wuthering  [REDACTED].&quot;  He  showed  them  to  Nanna.  &quot;I  like  to  tell  stories  with  pictures,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Would  you  like  a  movie  camera?&quot;  Carefully,  Mar-  cus  said,  &quot;I  would  like  one,  but  I  don't  think  I  deserve  one.  I  mean,  it  isn't  my  birthday.  I  haven't  done  anything  to  earn  it.&quot;  The  chauffeur  brought  a  mov-  ie  camera  from  [REDACTED],  a  model  recom-  mended  by  Nanna's  lawyer,  whom  she  telephoned  for  advice.  &quot;You  must  think  about  going  to  visit  your  mother  some-  time  this  summer.  Perhaps  after  Labor  " b"Day,&quot;  she  said.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;But  you'll  be  alone  then.&quot;  The  next  day,  she  said,  &quot;Since  you  don't  seem  to  want  to  leave  me,  I  have  written  your  mother  and  asked  her  to  come  and  visit  us  here.&quot;  43616e616461us  was  intent  on  making  his  first  movie  with  Nils,  the  chauffeur,  and  with  one  of  the  Irish  maids.  &quot;Now,  you're  a  murderer.  You  come  sn-sneaking,&quot;  43616e616461us  stam-  mered  to  Nils.  He  had  stammered  when  he  was  younger  only  at  moments  of  high  excitement,  but  late-  ly-for  the  past  year-he  had  begun  to  stammer  more;  he  stammered  almost  all  the  time  now.  &quot;You  c-come  around  the  garage  door  with  the  knife.  .  ..&quot;  He  set  the  Irish  maid  running  along  the  bluff,  hair  and  skirts  awhirl.  &quot;You  are  in  mor-  tal  t-terror  of  your  life.&quot;  Noreen  came,  almost  as  pretty  as  ever.  He  showed  her  the  darkroom,  the  comic  books  he'd  lithographed.  The  comic  books  upset  her;  they  were  lewd.  Noreen  said  she  was  seeinga  man  named  Little,  a  hard-  ware  dealer.  &quot;We  just  may  get  married,  Markie.  You'll  have  another  father-  won't  that  be  fine?&quot;  she  asked  hope-  fully.  Noreen  drank  quite  a  bit  on  that  visit.  43616e616461us  watched-she  filled  herself  with  bubbles;  thesurfaceof  her  face  bubbled  like  paint  with  air  in  it.  Noreen  asked,  &quot;Is  it  true  you  want  to  live  with  Nan-  na?&quot;  She  let  slide  a  glass  tray  of  laugh-  ter.  She  said,  a  good  sport,  &quot;After  all,  you  have  a  right  to  all  this.  It's  part  of  your  heritage.&quot;  Her  gaiety  was  inflexi-  ble.  &quot;He  can't  make  a  decision.  Poor  Markie,  he  won't  laugh.&quot;  She  tickled  him  with  her  forefinger,  saying,  &quot;Stop  being  a  sourpuss.  Come  on,  Markie,  let's  be  happy.&quot;  She  said  to  Nanna  at  the  dinner  table,  &quot;Markie's  been  disturbed;  he  ought  to  have  some  religious  instruc-  tion.  Religion  is  very  stabilizing  for  a  young  boy.&quot;  Nanna  changed  the  sub-  ject.  In  the  apartment  in  New  [REDACTED],  when  Noreen  made  breakfast,  she  some-  times  sang  in  a  tremulous,  thin,  weak,  charmingly  lyric  voice-God,  what  charm  there  was  in  that  tremulous  voice-'&quot;Pack  up  your  troubles  in  your  old  kit  bag,  and  smile,  smile,  smile.  ..  .&quot;  Noreen  said,  &quot;Markie,  you  must  tell  me  how  you  feel.  I'll  help  you  think.  I  have  to  admit  Nanna  can  do  a  lot  for  you.&quot;  Noreen  said,  &quot;W  hat's  best  is  what  helps  you  to  concentrate  on  your  studies,  to  work  hard  and  do  well  in  school,  Mark-  ie.  Do  you  want  to  live  with  Nanna?&quot;  She  turned  her  amusement-hungry,  warm,  and  depthless  face  to  him.  The  child  43616e616461us  saw  a  face  bubbled  like  paint  with  air  in  it,  saw  noise  and  a  party  and  someone  shouting,  saw  a  hillside  with  shepherds  and  shepherdesses-and  Noreen  singing-and  a  breeze  ruffling  the  leaves  of  the  chairs  turned  into  roses  of  Sharon.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  Nanna  and  Noreen  were  clos-  eted  in  the  library  for  several  hours.  Noreen  came  out  and  kissed  him  good-  bye.  She  said,  &quot;'You  work  hard  and  do  well  in  school,  Markie.&quot;  She  went  to  live  and  drink  in  sunny  California-  Nanna's  checks  helped  ease  the  strain  of  emigration-and  43616e616461us  made  his  home  with  his  grandmother.  FLY  struts  jerkily  in  the  sun-  light.  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;We  were  talking  about  the  movie.  Where  was  I?&quot;  &quot;Self-pity,&quot;  says  Loesser.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  says  43616e616461us.  Noreen  still  held  legal  cus-  tody.  &quot;A  formality,&quot;  Nanna  said.  Nan-  na  said  she  was  going  to  [REDACTED]  forthe  winter;  43616e616461us  was  to  have  Thanks,  giving,  Christmas,  and  Easter  with  his  father  and  his  father's  second  wife  and  the  four  children  he  had  by  that  second  wife.  &quot;You  must  get  to  know  them  bet-  ter,&quot;  Nanna  said.  Nanna  said  she  had  brought  43616e616461us  back  to  the  family.  &quot;You  are  a  Weill,&quot;  43616e616461us's  father  said.  &quot;I  want  you  to  feel  free  to  come  to  my  house  at  any  time.&quot;  &quot;'Thank  you,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  He  was  thirteen.  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;Yes.  Well.  These  people  have  no  self-pity.  They  go  et  things.&quot;  He  makes  a  gesture  of  someone  grab-  bing.  It  crosses  his  mind  to  say  that  they  are  as  bold  as  doctors,  that  what  they  want-their  habit-is  to  fall  in  love.  But  instead  he  falls  silent.  His  father  said,  &quot;43616e616461us,  I  want  to  say  I'm  glad  you're-  Well,  let  me  say  a  father  and  his  son  are  not  happily  parted.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  His  father  said,  &quot;You  never  asked  me  about  the  divorce.  You  must  have  a  good  many  questions.&quot;     &quot;No,  sir.  I  mean,  no,  thank  y-you,  sir.&quot;  His  father  said,  &quot;43616e616461us,  I'm  not  doing  this  for  my  sake.&quot;  He  paused,  he  said,  &quot;Don't  you  want  to  talk  anything  over  with  me?&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;It's  up  to  y-you,  sir.  If  you  w-want  to  talk,  s-sir.&quot;  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;You  have  any  questions  about  the  camera  angles?  Oskar?  Je-  hane?&quot;  His  father  said,  &quot;Never  mind.  We'll  try  again  later.&quot;  43616e616461us  was  ashamed  of  his  father.  What  did  talk  mean?  'Talk  didn't  mean  anything.  Je-  hane  cries,  &quot;[REDACTED],  cest  impossible!&quot;  The  day  is  triste,  the  city,  4974616c79,  is  triste,  unendurable  on  the  occasion  of  a  death.  &quot;How  can  we  work?&quot;  she  de-  mands.  She  is  insistent,  bitter,  con-  temptuous.  &quot;How  can  we  be  expected  to  work  as  if  nothing  has  happened.  A  woman  is  dead.  It  is  a  terrible  thing.  A  terrible  omen.  My  God.&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;'Your  allowance  will  be  fifty  dollars  a  month.  I  expect  you  to  keep  a  record  of  your  expenditures.  Someday  you  will  have  money  of  your  own,  and  you  must  start  now  to  learn  how  to  take  care  of  it.&quot;  Oskar,  eying  Jehane  curiously,  strokes  his  long,  muscular  throat.  Je-  hane  is  always  unsettled  before  starting  a  movie;  the  geometry  of  old  age  and  death  appalls  her.  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;Our  work  makes  us  monsters.&quot;  Jehane  says  sadly,  &quot;est  vrai;  tu  as  raison.&quot;  She  lifts  a  sugar-encrusted  roll  to  her  mouth.  43616e616461us  thinks,  That  will  stop  the  rat-  hole  .  ..  nothing  can  slither  for  a  mo-  ment.  The  maid  announces  the  car  is  at  the  door.  &quot;Bon!&quot;  cries  43616e616461us.  &quot;Allons,  everyone.&quot;  He  chivies  them  along.  The  immenseand  dusty  rooms  swing  up,  float,  descend  behind  him.  Two  boats  rode  at  mooring  in  front  of  Nanna's  beach,  which  gardeners  raked  free  of  shells  on  Mondays  and  Thursdays.  It  was  forbidden  to  swim  or  take  out  the  boats  on  Sunday  morn-  ing.  Almost  everyone  in  Scantuate  went  " b"to  church.  &quot;It  is  not  polite  to  desecrate  the  Sabbath  of  others.&quot;  To  be  late  or  unwashed  at  mealtimes  meant  eating  in  the  kitchen.  One  wore  a  jacket  to  din-  ner  during  the  week,  and  a  jacket  and  tie  on  weekends.  The  only  permissible  way  to  dress  was  in  the  casual,  local,  escape-from-the-city  style.  A  daughter-  in-law  foolish  enough  to  attempt  chic  would  be  greeted  with  &quot;I  love  red  silk  at  the  seashore.  So  suitable.&quot;  Nanna's  sarcasm,  politely  uttered,  continued  un-  til  the  offender  was  submissive.  Anger  or  sulkiness  ora  son's  trying  to  persuade  her-&quot;Be  more  reasonable,  Nanna&quot;'-  would  lead  her  to  say,  &quot;It  would  seem  I  am  not  free  to  enjoy  my  own  house.&quot;  Her  son  then  admitted  he  was  wrong  or  gathered  his  wife  and  children  and  left-so  the  family  joke  went-on  still  another  of  the  flights  of  the  Jews.  As  her  children  grew  older  and  more  pros-  perous,  they  came  to  visit  Nanna  for  shorter  periods  of  time  and  more  for-  mally.  The  worst  thing  Nanna  could  say  was,  &quot;This  is  boring.  This  is  so  boring.&quot;  Alliat,  the  cameraman,  talking  of  emulsions,  lenses,  says,  &quot;In  'Rasho-  mon'  ..  .&quot;  Nanna's  voice  mocks:  &quot;Pan-  chromatic!  Emulsion!  Egg  tempera  sounds  so  much  nicer.&quot;  &quot;Not  real-     &gt;  ly,  Nanna.  Listen-egg  tempera  ...  Nanna  rarely  went  to  movies.  Oskar,  Jehane,  Loesser,  and  Alliat  climb  into  the  black  Lancia;  the  sunlight  beats  down  on  the  white  stones  of  the  drive-  way,  the  nearby  bushes;  the  atmosphere,  43616e616461us  thinks,  is  exactly  that  of  a  funer-  al-the  tension,  the  unease,  the  con-  straint.  It  is  always  the  same  before  a  movie  begins.  43616e616461us  has  said  in  interviews  and  to  disciples  that  a  movie  is  a  face.  &quot;People  go  to  movies  to  spy  on  a  face.  If  a  movie  gallops,  only  children  are  amused.  A  true  film  advances  from  gossip  to  weep-  ing.  In  'Camille'  you  see  Garbo  first  as  a  demimondaine,  a  very  simple,  very  glamorous  piece  of  gossip,  but  scene  by  scene  the  gossip  becomes  more  complex,  more  details  are  added-she  practices  falsity,  is  ashamed  of  her  body  and  her-  self,  has  a  neurotic  longing  for  honesty.  Suddenly  you  get  this  breath,  this  sen-  sation,  My  God,  she  really  is  a  whore;  she  really  does  love  that  young  man;  he  mustn't  marry  a  whore;  Oh,  my  God,  how  awful.  And  then  you  ery.&quot;  WHAT  he  imagined  Nanna's  ex-  pectations  of  a  boarder  to  be  caught  like  cobwebs  at  43616e616461us's  eyes  and  throat,.  (43616e616461us  in  the  car  travelling  in  the  line  of  traffic  on  the  Appia  Antica  places  his  hand  on  Jehane's  thigh,  near  her  stomach;  he  folds  his  large  hand  over  her  flesh.)  43616e616461us  suffered  from  a  form  of  asthma  and  breathed  noisily.  Nanna  made  much  of  the  manners  of  43616e616461us's  half-brothers  and  half-  sisters,  who  were  soft-  voiced  and  reserved,  the  children  of  the  English  Jewess  his  father  had  married  two  months  after  his  divorce  from  Noreen.  They  were  bet-  ter  mannered  than  he  was,  but  not  as  interested  in  pleasing  Nanna.  Doc-  tors  had  said  43616e616461us's  breathing  was  a  physical  affliction.  43616e616461us  was  careful.  Helearned.  He  breathed  quietly.  Nanna  said,  ''You  see,  the  child's  not  asthmatic.&quot;  Nanna  did  not  always  look  at  him;  sometimes  it  seemed  to  him  she  imagined  he  was  someone  else.  The  school  had  written,  &quot;Mark  has  the  capacity  for  brilliance  but  is  eccentric  in  ex-  ecution.&quot;  &quot;In  feeling,  too,&quot;  the  teach-  er  had  added  when  he  spoke  to  Mar-  cus's  father.  At  the  moments  when  43616e616461us  stammered,  his  mouth,  awry  with  strain,  resembled  Nanna's.  He  said,  indicating  the  wicker  furniture,  the  heavy  sideboards,  the  Chinese  bronzes,  Japanese  chests,  and  Corots  his  grand-  father  had  collected,  &quot;This  room  has  the  r-richness  of  the  Orient.&quot;  Nanna  sighed.  &quot;Jews  are  often  called  Orien-  tal.  Do  you  know  what  fatalism  is?  It  leaves  out  the  will.  I  disapprove  of  that  very  much.&quot;  The  minnow  eyes  struggled  with  momentary  confu-  sion.  &quot;What  was  I  saying?  Oh,  yes.  I  loathe  fatalism.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;The  wind  is  rising.  Look  at  the  spray.  The  sea  has  crinkly,  Jewish  hair.&quot;  &quot;I  dis-  like  poetic  conversation,&quot;  Nanna  said.  43616e616461us  asked,  &quot;What  c-color  were  the  P-pyramids  when  you  and  grandf-father  were  in  E-egypt?  Was  the  sun  very  bright?  Was  the  sand  white  or  brown?  Did  your  sit-upon  h-hurt  from  riding  on  the  camel?&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;I  did  not  know  I  remembered  so  clearly.&quot;  Mar-  cus,  in  his  desire  to  please,  tended  to  mimic  the  grownups  he  was  speaking  to.  He  was  small  for  his  age  (but  he  grew  twelve  inches  in  his  first  sixteen  months  " b"with  Nanna),  and  his  mimicry  unset-  tled  adults.  He  would  say,  &quot;Have  you  licked  the  crabgrass  problem  this  year,  Dr.  Poore?&quot;  His  voice  was  changing,  and  he  was  excitable  and  nervous.  He  saw  that  at  the  dinner  table  others  made  straight-angled  and  orderly  remarks  that  were  like  toy  wooden  blocks.  But  he  could  produce  nothing  so  regular,  geometric,  and  gay;  his  conversational  throat  was  a  cave,  and  whatcame  out  was  an  over-gallant  compliment  from  his  reading-&quot;I'd  g-give  the  g-golden  apple  to  you,  Mrs.  Tredwell,&quot;  he  said  to  one  of  Nanna's  guests,  and  blushed-  or  he  spoke  and  Nanna  lifted  a  hand  to  her  hairas  if  to  protect  it  against  a  bat  43616e616461us  had  released  to  flitter  around  the  dinner  table:  &quot;People  not  t-talking  about  money  is  like  people  not  talking  about  sex.  I  bet  they  don't  want  to  g-get  excited  in  public.&quot;  He  blurted  once,  &quot;Do  all  women  go  cuckoo   menopause?&quot;  Nanna's  minnow  eyes  flickered  and  took  refuge  in  distance.  &quot;Medical  matters  are  not  discussed  at  table,  43616e616461us.&quot;  Outside  the  dining-room  windows,  Crimson  Glory  and  Mar\xc3\xa9chal  Niel  and  Peace  roses  (a  staining  of  pink  along  the  lips  of  their  ivory  petals)  grew  around  a  reflecting  pool.  Nanna  ordered  the  roses  thinned,  ordered  speech  lessons  for  43616e616461us.  The  roses  prospered.  Mar-  cus  did  not  stammer  any  more.  Charities.  Reforms.  The  will  to  do.  Improving  43616e616461us.  &quot;Conversation  should  be  light  and  pointless  and  yet  have  a  point-but  by  surprise,  like  scent  in  a  sweet  and  pretty  flower.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Nanna.&quot;  The  minnow  eyes  moved  in,  away,  not  quite  regarding  him.  &quot;Like  posies?&quot;  he  asked,  drawing  the  minnow  eyes  out  of  the  shadows  to  laugh.  &quot;Like  poesies,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Poses.&quot;  The  minnow  eyes  moved  away.  He  had  gone  too  far.     |  Foy\xc2\xbb     The  car  pauses  at  the  traffic  light  in  front  of  the  bastion  gate  of  San  Sebas-  tiano.  Its  two  towers  guard  a  narrow  gate  set  in  the  rose-pink  walls,  folded  stiffly  along  a  tussocked  rise.  Traffic  moves  through  San  Sebastiano  one  way,  out  of  the  city.  The  Lancia  turns  left,  past  a  row  of  suburban  apartment  houses,  beyond  which  appear  distant  fields.  The  country,  le  paysage,  passage  every-  where;  a  city  is  precise  about  passage.  Reasonably  safe.  Nanna  was  never  drunk.  Guests  at  Nanna's  table  were  honored  by  her  invitation  and  worked  to  be  amus-  ing.  She  was  well  served  by  her  trades-  people  and  her  servants;  the  dowagers  of  Scantuate  treated  her  with  respect.  43616e616461us  sat,  taking  care  not  to  slouch,  and  reported  his  progress  with  his  box-  ing  lessons;  Nanna  admired  the  ability  to  protect  oneself.  Nanna  listened.  Her  minnow  eyes  swam  over  his  face,  his  posture.  She  was  lonely.  She  did  not  get  along  well  with  her  children.  Her  friends  were  ill  or  dying.  Arthritis  clenched  her  fingers.  She  was  old.  Through  a  modern  gateway  (two  croquet  wickets,  one  twice  the  size  of  the  other)  cut  in-  to  the  wall,  the  car  enters  4974616c79.  43616e616461us's  father  said  to  Nanna,  &quot;It  must  be  diffi-  cult  for  you.&quot;  Nanna  was  a  chauvinist.  She  said,  &quot;43616e616461us  is  a  genius.&quot;  43616e616461us  walked  with  Nan-  na  before  dinner  on  the  bluff  above  the  harbor.  Nanna  spoke  of  Europe;  the  children  of  the  family  usually  went  to  Europe  be-  fore  they  came  of  college  age.  43616e616461us,  pretending  to  be  unshaken,  said  Europe  sounded  very  in-  teresting.  Nanna  said  they  would  think  about  Europe;  he  was  becoming  very  gentlemanly;  he  was  a  dear  boy.  43616e616461us  burst  out  into  his  imitations.  For-  merly,  he  had  done  imita-  tions  of  animals-lions,  roosters,  rabbits-the  wit  of  which  had  resided  large-  ly  in  the  abjectness  of  his  performance.  He  had  adapted  his  repertoire  to  doing  people  as  animals  Franklin  Roosevelt  as  an  otter,  Ethel  Barrymore  as  a  lemur,  Gamma  Foster  of  " b"Scantuate  as  an  elk  in  the  rain  forest;  his  imitations  sometimes  jolted  witha  queer  penetration  and  induced  painful,  unhap-  py  laughter.  Nanna  did  not  approve.  She  laughed  and  changed  the  subject;  she  spoke  slightingly  of  certain  Massachu-  setts  politicians.  43616e616461us,  beside  her,  glanced  out  over  the  harbor,  the  silken  water  of  high  tide,  moored  boats  with  masts  like  splinters  rising  into  the  quiver-  ing,  yellow-powdered  air,  the  uneven  bluffs  and  wandering  frame  houses  across  the  pipe  bowl  of  the  bay,  neatly  pretty  and  calm,  peaceful,  a  scene  glazed  on  a  plate;  he  walked  beside  an  almond-  chinned  Manchu  empress;  he  wore  a  Chinese  court  costume  of  brilliant  red  and  blue;  the  frame  houses  were  pago-  das.  &quot;It  is  interesting,&quot;  Oskar  says,  &quot;that  the  trees  in  4974616c79  are  not  so  many  or  so  tall  as  in  [REDACTED].  I  think  the  average  rainfall  here  must  be  less.  I  think  this  is  truly  a  more  tropical  climatological  region.&quot;  The  pedantry  in  Oskar's  voice  be-  longs  to  Willi-the  German  tourist  who  has  an  affair  with  Jehane  in  &quot;Rencontre  du  Voyage.&quot;  Since  rehearsals  began,  Oskar  has  become  less  certainly  Os-  kar;  he  has  become  Oskar-Willi;  itis  difficult  to  make  out  when  Oskar  is  Oskar  and  not  Willi.  Oskar  himself  no  longer  clearly  knows.  If  an  actor  holds  too  strongly  to  his  image  of  himself,  he  will  seem  sly  to  his  audience,  clearly  an  impostor;  the  audience  will  think  they  do  not  want  to  have  anything  put  over  on  them,  and  they  will  not  be  amused.  Oskar  is  in  earnest  about  his  art  and  de-  ludes  himself.  But  he  is  afraid  of  not  winning  the  love  of  the  audience,  and  his  voice  as  Oskar-Willi  is  wan,  and  sorrowful  as  if  to  say  that  he  is  not  the  man  that  he  should  be  and  might  he  not  be  pitied  and  understood.  Oskar  is  self-exculpatory.  Oskar  as  Willi  has  the  moving  sweet-  nessof  Oskar's  view  of  himself.  Mar-  cus  thinks  that  Oskar  conceives  of  time  and  the  world  as  a  story  in  which  he  is  the  hero,  that  Oskar  is  not  convinced  that  other  people  are  as  real  as  he  is.  For  the  part  of  Willi,  Oskar  the  man  is  quite  right.  It  is  Oskar  the  actor  try-  ing  to  improve  on  Oskar  the  man  who  doesnot  suit  the  part.  43616e616461us  wants  Willi  to  be  savagely  alive,  more  lifelike  than  Oskar's  acting  allows  him  to  be.  But  if  43616e616461us  goes  to  Oskar  and  says,  &quot;Oskar,  look,  I  want  you  to  see  your  own  fatuity  and  your  habits  of  self-delusion  and  use  them  for  Willi,&quot;  Oskar  will  grow  depressed  and  look  for  a  philosophyor  to  psychiatry  to  set  himself  right,  and  since  acting  to  " b"Oskar  m\xc3\xa9ans  a  chance  to  improve  on  himself,  he  will  be  denied  access  to  his  talent  and  give  a  wooden  performance  in  front  of  the  camera.  43616e616461us  must  be  devious  with  Oskar  to  get  what  he  wants.  He  has  a  scheme  ready  to  limit  Oskar's  fancying  up  his  image  too  much;  he  will  let  Oskar  be  simple  andcharm-  ing  and  thenhe  will  catch  Oskar  out-  he  hopes  to  have  Willi,  Willi  as  he  wish-  es  to  be,  Willi  perhaps  so  real  that  the  audience  will  be  torn  with  pity  and  fear.  43616e616461us  eyes  Oskar's  hands.  Oskar's  hands  are  Willi-sinewy,  ready,  rec-  ognizably  male;  they  are  versatile  ma-  chines.  43616e616461us  reaches  out  and  takes  Oskar's  wrist.  Oskar  jerks,  then  relaxes,  as  if  to  say,  &quot;Do  with  me  as  you  will.&quot;  He  is  being  seductive.  43616e616461us  murmurs,  &quot;Sh-h-h.&quot;  With  a  dry  rudeness,  he  lifts  Oskar's  hand  into  the  light  and  turns  it  this  way  and  that,  examining  it  as  if  it  were  an  objet  d'art  someone  was  will-  ing  to  sell  cheaply.  He  seesin  the  shape  of  the  side  of  the  palm  and  its  continua,  tioninto  the  little  finger  the  shell  of  a  dog  whelk.  The  gulls  hunted  them  at  Scantuate.  A  shell,  he  thinks.  43616e616461us  the  psalmist.  43616e616461us  sighs  at  the  beauty  of  Oskar's  hands.  He  looks  like  a  Jew-  ish  peddler.  When  had  he  ever  held  Nanna's  hand?  Not  often,  since  Nanna  was  not  demonstrative  and  did  not  like  demonstrativeness  in  the  people  near  her.  When  he  was  very  little,  five  or  six-his  affections  came  quickly  and  powerfully  as  a  child  (and  did  so  still,  but  in  another  context)-he'd  held  one  of  her  hands  with  both  of  his,  sitting  on  her  lap  while  she  told  him  a  story;  and  once,  when  his  Uncle  David  died,  he  was  scared  and  wanted  to  be  with  her  in  her  remoteness;  he  pretended  grief  and  held  her  hand;  and  when  he  was  seventeen,  lying  in  front  of  the  fire  in  the  fireplace  at  Scantuate  (September,  time  to  go  back  to  school),  he  told  her  boastfully,  to  compliment  her  for  her  labor  to  make  him  well  and  strong  (he  was  not  deaf  to  her  requirements),  that  he  was  in  love.  He  did  not  tell  her  how  happy  hewas,  or  what  love  was  like.  Whenever  he  closed  his  eyes,  a  myriad-  pointed  light  exploded;  it  was  unbe-  lievable-this  girl,  this  pretty  girl  cared  for  him.  Nanna  was  not  amused  by  sex  in  the  young.  He  was  very  careful  in  what  he  said.  Nanna  talked  about  &quot;grace&quot;  in  people;  those  that  had  it  were  like  falcons  in  the  air,  chamois  on  a  rock;  love  and  grace  were  cousins,  she  said,  joining  him  in  admiration  for  Sukie  Tredwell.  He  reached  for  Nanna's  hand  and  she  let  him  hold  it.  &quot;I  can  tell  people's  character  from  their  hands,&quot;  Noreen  had  always  said.  Nan-" b"na's  hands  were  round  and  firm.  White.  Ringless.  Now  dead.  &quot;TOOK,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;as  white  as  the  flesh  of  dead  hostesses,&quot;  and  held  up  the  note.  After  eleven  years  of  silence,  Nanna  (aged  seventy-eight)  announced  she  was  in  [REDACTED]  at  the  Lotti  and  would  like  to  see  43616e616461us.  43616e616461us  was  thirty-one  then,  a  celebrity  of  sorts,  a  thickening,  heavy-lidded  young  man.  In  a  white  suit  that  needed  pressing,  43616e616461us  sat  in  her  suite  at  the  Lotti  while  she  prattled-she  was  so  oblique,  the  impression  was  of  wit-about  doctors,  travel,  the  condition  of  [REDACTED],  indicating  that  she  was  ignoring  the  past,  he  could  do  as  he  wished.  It  disconcerted  her  whenever  he  looked  at  her;  he  studied  the  gloss  of  the  wooden  floor.  He  lis-  tened  to  her  voice.  It  was  tired  and  broken  by  little  clicks.  Her  sense  of  grammar  was  intact.  He  could  not  re-  member  if  she  had  always  talked  so  much.  He  heard  in  her  light,  old-woman's  sar-  casm  the  stumbling  chords  of  a  vast  boredom.  She  was  at  odds  with  the  family.  &quot;I  don't,  however,  tamper  with  my  will.  Perhaps  you'd  like  the  house  in  Scantuate?&quot;  She  was  not  as  clever  as  before.  43616e616461us  saw  a  crooked  rick  of  thin  quartz  rods,  largely  cracked,  peel-  ing,  and  broken,  supporting  the  weight  ofa  large  rock  that  half  rested  on  them.  He  was  touched  by  the  sight  of  her  al-  mond  chin.  She  rested  or  slept  for  long  hours  in  order  to  be  fresh  and  &quot;able&quot;  when  she  was  with  people.  He  intro-  duced  her-&quot;My  grandmother&quot;-as  if  she  had  been  a  charwoman  who  had  scrubbed  floors  to  send  him  to  college.  He  took  her  to  Rubinstein's,  Braque's,  and  Colette's.  &quot;My  new  movie  is  a  comedy,&quot;  he  told  her.  The  Comic  Spirit-he  had  rea-  soned  it  out;  he  saw-was  a  total  thing.  Every  action  had  to  have  a  comic  cast-  cast  of  characters,  tone,  and  deformity  of  vision.  To  see  the  comic  side  one  had  only  to  refuse  indulgence  to  the  tragic;  what  was  left  was  comic.  43616e616461us  spoke  gravely;  he  was  obviously  deeply  im-  mersed  in  his  movie.  The  rhetoric  of  tragedy  was  that  the  characters  were  under  the  pressure  of  death  and  of  their  lives  and  were  bereftof  choice.  The  tragic  imbecile  cared  and  suffered  and  forgave.  The  Comic  Spirit  took  every-  thing  for  granted,  ordained  that  one  suf-  fered  little  and  found  little  to  forgive.  His  movie  was  to  be  about  the  lives-that  is,  the  businesses  and  love  affairs-of  cer-  tain  4672616e6365ians.  Each  of  the  characters  professed  a  belief:  &quot;It's  all  psychologi-  cal.  It's  all  in  my  mind  (or  yours),&quot;  and  &quot;This  is  a  troubled  age,&quot;  and  &quot;Religion  is  utterly  necessary  to  man-  " b"kind,&quot;  and  &quot;As  the  good  527573736961n  Chekhov  said,  'Man  finds  happiness  in  work.'  &quot;  &quot;You  see  how  funny  that  is,&quot;  Mar-  cus  said.  &quot;'Take  almost  anyth-thing-  cutting  yourself  shaving.  A  c-character  can  cut  himself  and  say  any  one  of  those  things-''This  is  a  troubled  age'-and  it's  funny,  you  know.  We  are  going  to  have  only  simple  happenings,  you  see.  It  is  a  sincere  movie.  A  little  cruel.  One  is  sincere  on  so  many  levels.&quot;  He  began  to  talk  very  fast.  &quot;And,  of  course,  some-  times  it  will  be  sad  enough  that  you  can  cry.  The  pet  dachshund  of  the  woman  who  holds  that  religion  is  utterly  nec-  essary  to  mankind  is  run  over  and  killed.  The  woman  is  basically  a  verykind  woman,  but  she  was  her  dog's  religion  and  now  she  can't  say  anything.  She  does  not  know  what  she  can  say  about  her  dog.&quot;  &quot;I  am  not  certain  I  would  cry,&quot;  Nanna  said.  &quot;'Yes.  But  it  goes  on.  She  recovers.  Her  grief  has  made  her  self-centered;  she  still  says  that  religion  is  necessary  for  mankind;  she  says  she  could  not  have  managed  without  it;  she  has  a  new  dachshund  she  doesn't  like  very  much.  She  says  that  good  dachshunds  who  do  well  in  obedience  school  and  are  faith-  ful  to  their  mistresses  go  to  Heaven.  She  says,  'Religion  is  utterly  necessary  to  mankind.&quot;  She  is  very  consistent,  but  basically,  by  then,  she  is  a  broken  wom-  an.  Wait  until  it  is  in  the  movie  and  you  can  see  it.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Nanna  said.  &quot;I'm  certain  it  will  be  good.&quot;  At  Orly,  43616e616461us  kissed  her  goodbye.  Nanna  said,  &quot;Perhaps  you  will  come  see  me  at  Scantuate.&quot;  Her  smile  was  small,  and  wry;  he  saw  a  paper  air-  plane  hanging  in  the  branches  of  a  tree.  &quot;I  need  so  much  in  the  way  of  com-  fort.  I  am  not  a  good  traveller,&quot;  Mar-  cus  said.  He  broke  off.  Very  little  could  be  said  without  lying.  He  pressed  her  hand  to  his  cheek.  Orly;  the  noise  of  jets.  A  departure  is  like  a  funeral.  Jehane  says,  &quot;The  Ardeatine  Gate  opens  onto  the  Avenue  of  the  Baths  of  Caracalla.&quot;  She  is  jealous  of  Oskar,  and  43616e616461us's  mood  oppresses  her,  and  she  does  notlook  forward  to  the  movie.  She  pushes  the  hair  back  from  her  face  with  one  hand  and  imitates  Oskar-Willi's  voice:  &quot;I  wonder  that  in  this  part  of  4974616c79  there  are  so  few  structures.&quot;  She  is  making  fun  ofthe  movie.  Loesser  and  Alliat  smile.  Oskar  says,  &quot;Ah,&quot;  and  con-  tinues  the  line:  &quot;Does  it  say  nothing  in  the  guidebook?&quot;  Jehane  plucks  at  her  lip  and  pretends  to  squint  at  a  peculiarly  worded  paragraph:  &quot;It  says  a  pope  was  besieged  and  asked  the  Normans  who  at     " b"t  that  time  held  Naples  to  come  to  his  aid,  and  they  came;  they  rode  in  armor,  and  arrived  at  the  city  walls  at  night,  and  the  leader  of  the  Normans  ordered  this  part  of  4974616c79  set  on  fire  to  make  light  and  clear  away  the  defenders  and  open  the  narrow  streets  so  that  he  and  his  troops  could  make  their  way  to  the  cen-  ter  of  the  city.  Ever  after,  this  part  of  4974616c79  has  remained  vineyards,  gardens,  and  farmland.  No  one  has  lived  here.&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;Fools  think  nothing  is  serious,  but  only  a  fool  makes  a  show  of  how  serious  he  is.&quot;  What  one  valued  showed  in  one's  manners.  One  trusted  people  whose  manners  were  like  one's  own.  After  a  dinner  partyonce,  when  he  was  fifteen,  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;Nanna,  did  I  do  all  right?  Did  those  people  like  me?&quot;  Nanna  replied  somewhat  angrily  that  it  was  impermissible  to  ask  such  a  question;  it  was  always  clear-common  sense  always  indicated  quite  clearly-  our  situation  vis-a-vis  others.  He  was  being  self-centered  and  eager  for  flat-  tery  and  was  not  being  nearly  clever  enough.  He  said,  &quot;Nanna,  I  thought  Cook  outdid  herself  tonight.  And,  God,  how  you  handled  Gamma  Foster.  Like  a  master.&quot;  Nanna  smiled  and  said,  &quot;You  were  very  amusing.  You're  always  amusing  when  you  try.&quot;  Oskar  in  a  falsetto  does  Jehane'snext  line:  &quot;The  Normans  in  Normandy  are  |  terrible  people.&quot;  Loesser  recites  with  him,  &quot;Once,  on  a  vacation,  I  went  toa  Norman  farmhouse  and  the  farmer  made  ugly  overtures  to  me.&quot;  Jehane  says  in  her  best  Germanic  baritone,  &quot;My  father  :|  was  killed  in  Normandy.  He  was  a  lieu-  tenant  in  the  Luftwaffe.&quot;  43616e616461us  says  suddenly,  &quot;Did  you  know  there  was  a  Jewish  pope?  A  Jew  named  Pierleoni,  a  butcher,  was  the  strongest  man  in  4974616c79.  He  gained  control  of  the  Castel  ;  Sant'  Angelo  and  the  island  in  the  Tiber  and  served  the  Pope.  He  had  his  sec-  ond  son  baptized,  and  when  the  old  Pope  died,  Pierleoni  saw  to  it  his  son  was  elected  Pope.&quot;  Oskar  says,  &quot;That  is  very  interesting.&quot;  43616e616461us  continues,  &quot;However,  the  bishops  outside  of  4974616c79  refused  to  recognize  him.  They  did  not  take  baptism  seriously  enough;  they  \\|  still  considered  Anacletus  the  Second,  &quot;{a  Jew.&quot;  &quot;The  history  of  4974616c79  is  very  rich  in  incident,&quot;  Oskar  says,  laps-  ing  into  Oskar-Willi.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  says  Je-  hane,  taking  up  her  part.  Oskar  says,  J  &quot;Every  people  is  forgiven  its  war  crimes.  |  The  British  are  forgiven  their  terror  raids,  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns  are  forgiven  Hiro-  shima.  Only  the  Germans  are  not  for-  given.  I  am  certain  even  you,  being  French,  are  prejudiced  against  us.&quot;  &quot;Not  enough,&quot;  says  Jehane.  The  psychiatrist  said,  &quot;Don't  take  " b"yourself  so  seriously,  boy.&quot;  43616e616461us's  father  said,  &quot;We  do  like  you.  You  know  you're  always  welcome  here.&quot;  Noreen  said,  &quot;A  little  bit  of  humor  is  a  big,  big  help.&quot;  43616e616461us's  roommate  said,  &quot;Take  it  easy,  fella.&quot;  43616e616461us  at  fifteen  said  at  the  dinner  table,  &quot;I  can't  go  along  with  'King  Lear'-I  don't  believe  in  tragedy.  When  people  start  to  take  themselves  that  seriously,  I  get  very  uncomfort-  able.&quot;  He  spoke  with  aconvert's  snob-  bery.  &quot;He's  only  one  man.  Is  it  fair  to  ask  an  audience  to  take  anyone  that  seriously?  Why  doesn't  Lear  develop  a  sense  of  humor  and  sit  down  and  laugh  a  while?&quot;  N  the  Piazzale  Numa  Pompilio,  an  immense  green  bus  cuts  diagonally  across  traffic  toward  the  Lancia.  The  light  is  blotted  from  the  Lancia,  and  green  shadows  appear  on  the  back  of  the  chauffeur's  neck  and  Loesser's  hair.  43616e616461us's  work  requires  that  his  nerves  be  uncovered;  the  nakedness  of  his  nerves  is  the  reach  of  a  pianist's  fin-  gers.  The  possibility  of  an  accident  rends  him  with  anguish.  Abruptly  and  pas-  sionately,  he  lifts  his  hand  to  shield  Jehane's  face.  The  speed  with  which  his  mind  moves  is  very  great,  because  it  has  no  stillness  to  be  aroused  from.  It  pic-  tures  the  disorder  on  the  faces  of  his  two  sons  and  his  daughter  if  he  should  be  killed.  (By  the  well-being  of  his  children  43616e616461us  measures  the  good-  ness  of  reality.)  They  will  be  convinced  of  their  bad  luck;  nor  will  therebe  enough  money  for  them  and  for  their  mother-in  a  sanitarium  in  the  Vosges,  her  peculiar  and  private  gaiety  soars  like  a  balloon,  and  forgets  to  return.  43616e616461us  hears  the  rain  of  sounds  of  an  accident;  experiences  despair  at  the  waste,  and  astonishment  at  the  softness  of  metal,  which  wrinkles  as  easily  as  a  flower.  He  sees  time  wadded,  crumpled,  tossed  into  a  fire,  thinks  [REDACTED]'s  burning,  and  grieves  for  his  children.  He  is  pressed  back  against  the  seat  as  the  Lancia,  accelerating,  moves  left,  eludes  the  bus,  faces  oncoming  traffic,  hurtles  to  the  right,  slows  to  a  more  rea-  sonable  speed.  He  has  been  misled.  Sun-  light  floods  his  eyes.  Alliat's  hair  stirs  slightly  in  the  wind.  The  chauffeur  ex-  postulates,  &quot;Imbecille!  Omicidio!&quot;  43616e616461us  snorts,  chokes,  then  snorts  again-he  is  a  fool.  He  wants  to  make  a  noise.  Loesser  and  Oskar  turn  and  look  at  him.  Loesser  demands,  &quot;W  hat  is  so  funny.&quot;  Between  spurts  of  laughter,  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;We  were  not  killed.&quot;  Os-  kar,  eying  him,  tentatively  begins  to  laugh,  like  someone  who  parts  the  branches  ofa  bush  to  start  a  rabbit-  he  hopes  to  discover  the  nature  of  the  " b"joke.  Jehane  says,  &quot;Nous  \xc3\xa9tions  presque  tu\xc3\xa9s!&quot;  43616e616461us  gasps  and  says,  &quot;All's  well  that  ends  well.&quot;  Jehane  cries  out  that  this  shows  the  effects  of  a  reac-  tionary  government;  an  oppressed  peo-  ple  reverts  to  savagery.  Loesser  cuts  in  in  his  high,  clear  voice:  the  Romans  are  not  a  people,  they  are  a  history.  Their  history  has  made  them  megalo-  maniac  and  simplified  their  desires:  they  want  power,  life  after  death,  and  the  pleasures  of  the  body  and  of  art.  Alliat  exclaims,  &quot;Ah!&quot;  and  43616e616461us  sits  up,  shoves  aside  his  laughter.  The  Arch  of  Constantine  is  written  into  the  movie;  the  lovers  are  to  shelter  under  it  from  the  sun  and  speak  there  for  the  first  time  of  their  love.  The  movie  is  to  be  ironic  but  not  a  comedy;  the  lovers  are  without  choice,  sensualists  in  the  Greek  tradition,  in  the  tradition  of  the  moment  uninflected  by  the  presence  of  God.  The  Arch,  hardly  more  than  an  interference,  draws  near,  metamor-  phoses  into  a  stream  of  sunlight.  43616e616461us  thinks  of  wings  carved  in  stone,  of  things  become  their  opposites,  of  the  mood  of  music  striving  to  be  architecture.  The  jamb  of  the  Arch  is  out  of  true  from  age,  and  whatever  boast  it  had  once  been  meant  to  make  has  been  obscured  by  its  lapse  from  geometry.  Oskar  will  stand  beneath  it,  his  arm  around  Jehane,  and  point  across  the  street  to  the  rows  of  evenly  spaced  cypresses  clipped  flat  on  top  and  cylindrically  at  the  sides  to  mim-  ic  columns,  and  say,  &quot;That  was  a  Tem-  ple  of  Venus.&quot;  The  Arch  is  suddenly  near:  a  door  without  walls;  no  one  need  pass  through  it.  But  the  Colosseum,  which  rises  to  the  right,  is  an  immense  circle,  with  a  multi-  tude  of  doors  that  one  must  pass  through  to  enter  or  to  leave,  43616e616461us  breaks  into  a  sweat,  and  exclaims,  &quot;Loesser,  we  have  the  symbolism  all  wrong!&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  says  Loesser,  frowning.  He  is  satisfied  with  his  script.  If  Mar-  cus  deviates  too  much  from  it,  then  what  is  filmed  will  not  be  Loesser's  work;  he  doesnot  feel  he  is  a  pensioner  of  Mar-  cus's.  43616e616461us,  wordless,  points.  Outside  the  car  windows  wheel  the  barrel  vaults  of  the  Colosseum,  tier  on  tier.  Loesser  says  in  confusion,  &quot;The  Colosseum,  43616e616461us?  You  said  you  thought  it  was  a  clich\xc3\xa9.&quot;  &quot;The  Colosseum  is  a  wall,&quot;  43616e616461us  says.  &quot;If  the  lovers  .  .  .&quot;  The  car  has  entered  the  Piazza  del  Colosseo.  Direct-  ly  ahead,  in  the  side  of  a  hill,  is  the  en-  trance  to  the  remains  of  the  Domus  Aurea,  Nero's  house,  the  Golden  House.  [REDACTED],  acave;the  word  &quot;gro-  tesque&quot;&quot;  comes  from  the  figures  in  its  wall  paintings-grotteschi,  things  in  a" b"grotto.  The  image  grows.  The  Colos-  seum.  Nero's  house.  43616e616461us  never  claimed  to  know,  only  to  see.  On  the  topmost  rim  of  the  Colosseum  is  a  place-there-visible  as  the  car  passes,  where  the  stones  have  started  to  fall;  the  courses  waver,  large  cracks,  un-  even  Vs,  are  kept  from  growing  by  a  modern  brick  wall  that  rises  in  a  smooth  sweep  to  hold  the  stones  in  place.  43616e616461us  says  excitedly,  &quot;The  lovers  come  out  of  the  Domus  Aurea;  they  will  see  the  Colosseum  falling.  No.  We'll  start  when  they  go  into  Nero's  house.  No.  She  refuses  to  go  in.  At  first.  (Lui,  il  \xc3\xa9tait  fow  ..  .  Nero  the  madman,  do  you  see  it?  She's  afraid.  I  mean,  she  doesn't  know  the  person  she's  fallen  in  love  with.  What  will  he  do  to  her?  ...  He  insists.  They  go  in.  She  says,  (Comme  un  tombeau  ici?  &quot;  &quot;Naturellement,&quot;  Loesser  mutters.  He  says,  &quot;43616e616461us,  we  planned  this  epi-  sode  to-&quot;  but  he  is  interrupted.  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;No,  no,  listen  to  me.  It's  dark  in  the  Golden  House,  and  he  says  'Boo!'  to  scare  her-my  God,  as  if  she  needed  it!  He  wants  her  to  embrace  him.  She  does.  She  clutches  at  him.  Then  we  cut  to-  They  are  walking  out-out  into  the  sunlight,  and  hewhis-  pers  in  her  ear,  Je  Paime,  je  P  aimera  toujours,  and  she  sees  the  Colosseum  falling.  These  will  be  real  lovers,&quot;  43616e616461us  exults.  &quot;They  go  into  the  Colosseum;  they  pick  their  way  among  ruins,  and  Oskar  can  whisper,  'Tu  es  belle,  tu  es  belle,belle,  belle?  &quot;  43616e616461us  presses  his  hands  together.  He  says  sen-  timentally,  &quot;They  kiss  in  one  of  the  archways,  little  figures  in  an  archway.  Then  Oskar  can  point  to  the  Temple  of  Venus.&quot;  &quot;It  won't  mock  anything  in  that  con-  text,  43616e616461us,&quot;  Loesser  says.  &quot;You  said  when  we  were  doing  the  script  that  you  didn't  want  to  do  'W  uthering  [REDACTED]  on  the  Seven  Hills.?  &quot;  &quot;Good  God,  you're  stupid,  you  don't  see  anything!&quot;  43616e616461us  bursts  out.  He  adds,  &quot;For  Christ's  sake,  leave  me  alone.  I  have  a  day's  shooting  ahead  of  me.&quot;  Jehane  peeks  at  Loesser  in  the  rearview  mirror,  and  Loesser,  meeting  her  glance,  raises  his  eyebrows  as  if  to  say,  &quot;I  don't  understand  a  word.  What  am  I  supposed  to  do?&quot;  43616e616461us  sits,  his  hand  over  his  eyes.  The  image,  if  captured,  is  a  landfall,  a  mooring,  the  transfigura-  tion  of  danger  into  safety,  his  life's  work.  The  Golden  House  that  is  a  cave,  the  Colosseum  falling,  half  fallen  &quot;Tu  es  belle,  belle,  belle!&quot;  is  a  harbor,  is  a  spas-  modic  twinkling  of  the  hypnotist's  mir-  ror,  is  a  blank  white  concavity  in  which  43616e616461us's  mind  rolls  like  a  metal  ball  helplessly,  obstinately,  noisily.  His  fore-  " b"head  dampens,  He  cannot  let  this  obses-  sion  with  a  half-glimpsed  image  inter-  fere  with  the  day's  shooting  any  more  than  he  can  the  news  of  Nanna's  death  or  rearoused  wonder  at  her  meaning  in  his  life.  At  prep  school,  he  told  the  doctor,  &quot;It  scares  me  when  I  make  up  my  mind.  My  mind  seems  to  have  a  mind  of  its  own  ...  I  guess;  that's  a  joke.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;Tell  me,  do  you  inherit  your  mind?  I'm  very  quiet  or  else  I'm  a  fanatic.  Do  you  think  it's  because  I'm  Irish  and  Jewish,  and  a  lot  of  Spanish,  if  you  go  back  far  enough?&quot;  He  promises  himself  he  will  get  to  Loesser  later,  seduce,  cajole,  nag  him-bend  him  to  the  image  and  see  that  it  is  captured.  He  tells  him-  self  he  does  not  need  the  image  for  the  movie.  But  he  cannot  be  consoled.  De-  lay  is  dangerous,  suspense  beyond  him.  He  tells  himself,  &quot;It  doesn't  matter.&quot;  His  method  for  calming  himself  at  such  moments,  the  only  one  that  works,  is  to  abandon  caring;  he  subsides  into  what  he  calls  his  Christian  mood.  He  grows  calmer,  abandoning  for  the  moment  his  enormous  and  inchoate  hopes,  like  a  Christian  assigning  the  spiritual  portion  of  existence  to  the  care  of  the  vicars  of  God  and  modestly  resigning  himself  to  the  sensual  remnant,  which  is  transient,  sun-brittle  on  a  summer's  day,  and  sour  to  the  tongue  like  grass.  NANNA  took  him  in  at  the  suggestion  of  the  doctor  at  Andover.  The  doctor  said,  &quot;He  suffers  from  having  no  sense  of  belonging.&quot;  He  said  to  43616e616461us,  &quot;Your  mother  wants  you  to  be  happy  here  or  she  wouldn't  have  sent  you  to  Andover.&quot;  &quot;She  doesn't  send  me.  My  grand-  mother  pays  for  it.&quot;  &quot;But  your  mother  agrees.  She  signs  the  reports  and  so  on.&quot;  &quot;She  wouldn't  approve  of  this  school  if  she  knew  more  about  it.  She  wouldn't  like  it  if  I  changed.&quot;  &quot;Would  she  want  you  to  be  rude  to  the  teachers,  to  most  of  the  students?&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;If  I  ever  got  to  be  like  them,  Id  shoot  myself.  My  mother  would  shoot  me.  I  study.  I  mostly  use  my  memory.  I  show  I  can  do  it,  and  then  I  despise  it.&quot;  The  doctor  said,  &quot;You  seem  to  have  a  great  interest  in  moral  questions.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  without  self-conscious,  ness,  &quot;Thank  you.  It  comes  from  travel-  ling  around  in  different  houses.  You  get  to  thinking  about  what's  right  in  one  house  and  not  in  another.&quot;  The  doctor  saidto  43616e616461us's  fa-  ther  that  43616e616461us  could  not  handle  the  conflict  between  his  loyalty  to  his  mother  and  the  education  offered  by  the  school,  " b"and  that  43616e616461us  would  not  betray  his  mother  by  going  to  live  with  his  father.  (&quot;I  have  no  problems,&quot;  43616e616461us  had  said.  &quot;My  mother  is  wonderful.  She  takes  good  care  of  me.&quot;)  Nanna  took  him  in  and  gave  him  a  camera.  In  Nanna's  house  he  found  himself  stilled.  In  the  new  silence  he  read,  at  once  a  little  in  love  with  other  people's  minds  and  with  his  own;  in  the  stillness  he  could  have  these  mental  affections.  His  strength  no  longer  went  so  much  into  survival.  Nanna  said  he  was  a  genius;  he  thought  himself  to  be  stun-  ningly  ordinary,  the  world's  guest,  on  sufferance,  someone  bluffing,  a  common  boy.  The  genius  Nanna  referred  to  he  took  to  bea  social  thing  that  earned  the  admiration  of  outsiders  and  did  not  extend  into  the  house,  where  Nanna  frowned  on  and  discountenanced  tem-  perament,  wild  talk,  rude  behavior,  burning  eves,  uncombed  hair,  and  flushed  and  nervous  mannerisms.  Nanna's  intelligence  awed  him.  She  had  known  and  admired  Maeterlinck.  With  the  camera  she  gave  him,  43616e616461us  made  a  movie,  a  sea-and-harbor  \xc3\xa9tude  to  be  set  to  Debussy's  &quot;La  Mer.&quot;  Nan-  na  thought  it  very  dear,  excellent,  quite  beautiful  in  its  way.  (But  it  was  man-  nered  and  incoherent,  because  43616e616461us's  understanding  of  Nanna's  taste  was  fit-  ful.)  Nervy  and  alert  and  quick-eyed,  43616e616461us  at  fourteen,  as  later,  loved  fre-  quently;  he  loved  secretly  and  from  afar  a  girl  named  Sukie  Tredwell  (the  granddaughter  of  old  Gamma  Foster,  the  bishop's  widow  ).  For  companionship  he  relied  on  the  gardener's  son,  who  came  and  went  at  43616e616461us's  (and  Nan-  na's)  convenience.  He  had  friends  of  a  sort,  boys  from  the  Yacht  Club  or  from  school,  but  somehow  friendship  never  grew.  Something  would  occur  in  the  course  of  an  afternoon-loneliness  in  their  company,  or  one  or  the  other  car-  ing  too  much,  or  boredom-and  noth-  ing  took.  Nanna  became  irritated  at  his  isolation.  Nanna  called  Gamma  Foster,  who  had  staying  with  her  a  grandson  two  years  older  than  43616e616461us;  the  boy  had  grown  up  in  [REDACTED]  (his  father  was  in  the  Foreign  Service  and  about  to  be  sent  to  4a6170616e),  andwas  to  start  at  An-  dover  in  the  fall  and  be  556e6974656420537461746573nized.  &quot;We  think,&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;you  and  Robin  might  have  something  in  com-  mon.  Robin  is  intelligent.  Gamma  says  her  grandson  is  artistic.&quot;  43616e616461us  drove  with  Nanna  in  her  black  Packard,  Nils,  the  chauffeur,  up  front,  down  the  shore  road  to  Gamma  Foster's  immense,  be-porched,  and  un-  distinguished  house.  He  and  Gamma  Foster's  grandson  Robin  stole  glances  " b"at  each  other  across  the  luncheon  table.  Robin  was  asthin  as  string,  and  fair,  with  dark,  opaque  eyes  and  enormous,  nervous,  graceful  hands.  He  was  Euro-  peanly  precise  in  his  movements,  and  Nanna  smiled  at  him.  Robin  showed  up  the  next  afternoon  at  Nanna's  with  a  portfolio  under  his  arm  of  several  of  his  large,  B\xc3\xa9rard-like  ink  and  water-color  sketches  of  theatrical  mises  en  sc\xc3\xa9ne.  He  said  to  43616e616461us  that  he  intended  to  go  into  the  theatre,  that  he  was  something  of  a  genius.  43616e616461us  asked  him,  &quot;Does  your  family  harp  on  that,  too?&quot;  Robin  said,  &quot;No.  You're  lucky  you're  a  Jew.  Jews  have  a  real  appreciation  of  the  arts.&quot;  He  confided  to  43616e616461us  that  he  was  lonely.  Gamma  Foster  was  im-  pressive,  but  not  European-not  like  Nanna,  who  was  clearly  very  cultivated.  He  gestured  with  his  large  hands  while  he  talked.  He  came  the  following  day,  and  the  one  after.  The  two  boys  lay  on  wicker  couches  on  the  south  porch  and  talked.  He  told  43616e616461us,  &quot;I  am  deeply  French,  I  do  not  care  what  you  say  as  long  as  you  say  it  with  distinction.&quot;  &quot;My  friend,  my  friend,&quot;  43616e616461us  said  to  himself,  lying  in  bed  at  night.  He  was  cautious  and  did  not  reveal  the  extent  of  his  affection.  He  did  not  trust  Robin,  because  he  could  not  see  that  Robin  had  a  moral  nature,  but  he  blamed  himself  for  his  lack  of  trust.  He  had  not  yet  been  told  the  tenets  of  that  particular  Jewish  hagiology-Jews  are  saints  (Noreen  did  not  know  of  it,  and  Nanna  never  spoke  of  it)  and  Gentiles  are  a  cross  they  bear.  When  Gentiles  pursue  the  company  of  Jews,  the  hagi-  ology  states,  they  do  so  because  they  are  rejected  by  their  own  kind  and  feel  they  will  be  wel-  comed  by  Jews,  who  are,  of  necessity,  flattered  by  the  at-  tentionsof  a  Gentile.  These  Gentiles  are  not  to  be  trusted.  A  Jewwho  takes  Gentile  friends  must  expect  to  be  exploited,  lacks  pride,  and  is  a  fool.  Robin  talked  of  Jewish  understand-  ing  and  Jewish  warmth  and  Jewish  in-  tellect.  Robin  was  sweetly-smiled  and  a  petty  thief  (loose  change,  bibelots,  foun-  tain  pens).  Robin  was  experienced  with  whores  and  well  read.  Robin  told  Mar-  cus  he  had  talent  but  that  he  was  pedan-  tic,  heavy-handed,  rather  old-fashioned  and  ignorant  instyle.  (When  43616e616461us  imitated  Robin's  manners,  the  results  pleased  Nanna.)  Robin  introduced  him  to  symbolism,  to  Mallarm\xc3\xa9,  to  Rim-  baud.  He  said  he  admired  vitality  and  earthiness,  and  that  no  one  should  refine  his  mind  and  tastes  too  much  and     become  effete;  he  should  remain  a  little  clumsy,  because  clumsiness  was  strength.  43616e616461us  began  to  make  an-  other  movie,  one  never  finished,  with  Robin  as  protagonist.  Robin  said  all  titles  sounded  better  in  French,  and  the  movie  was  called  &quot;Les  Yeux  d'un  Poste.&quot;  43616e616461us  thought  as  a  child  that  people  were  speeches,  delivered  with  sincerity  in  incomprehensible  languages,  and  one  had  to  learn  those  languages.  (Death  was  that  people  grew  silent.  The  end  of  a  conversation  was  death,  and  he  was  left  alone.  His  terror  of  death  at  that  age  was  terror  at  the  breaking  off  of  a  dialogue.)  Before  he  learned  some-  one's  language  and  knew  how  to  trans-  late  into  it,  he  hid  himself  in  eagerness  to  be  agreeable:  &quot;What  would  you  like  to  do?  What  kind  of  mood  are  you  in?&quot;  He'd  known  Robin  five  months  before  he  risked  showing  one  of  his  images;  it  was  after  Thanksgiving,  which  43616e616461us  spent  in  New  York  at  his  father's.  When  he  was  back  at  school,  he  said,  &quot;Do  you  know  what  I  think  at  family  dinners?  I'm  at  the  Wars  of  the  Roses.  There  are  people  in  a  living  room  and  they  throw  white  and  red  roses  at  each  other,  with  thorns  on  them.  There's  blood  on  the  carpet.  They  squawk;  it  sounds  like  '&quot;York,  York,  York.&quot;  But  if  everybody's  peaceful  it  sounds  like  a  fire  in  the  fireplace:  Lancaster...  Lancaster  ...  Lancaster.?  &quot;  'That's  rather  far-  fetched,&quot;  Robin  said.  &quot;Frank-  ly,  I  think  it's  overdone.  Any-  way,  I  don't  get  it.  Family  life  is  much  more  psychologi-  cal.  Freud  appears  with  the  hors  d'oeuvres  and  stays  through  the  tapioca-that's  my  opinion.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cch,  you\xe2\x80\x99re  right,\xe2\x80\x9d  Mar-  cus  said.  Robin's  difficulty  in  getting  grades  (except  in  English,  where  he  wrote  a  superbly  terse  and  grammatical  prose,  more  French  than  English  in  spirit)  proved  he  was  intelligent  and  thought  for  himself.  43616e616461us  tried  to  think  with  Robin's  thoughts.  He  began  to  erupt  in  scenes  without  understanding  why  he  was  making  them.  &quot;I  have  a  terrible  temper,&quot;  43616e616461us  kept  saying.  Robin  ad-  mitted  that  43616e616461us  was  violent  and  deep.  He  admitted  it  with  pleasure  and  with  proprietary  conviction.  MARCUS  leans  forward  as  the  Lancia  entersthe  Piazza  di  Spagna.  He  thinks,  Yes,  yes,  yes-he  wants  the  two  shoals  of  parked  cars  on  either  side  of  the  open  channel  in  which  traffic  " b"moves.  He  wants  for  the  movie  the  tour-  ists  in  shorts  and  sunglasses,  the  Peugeot  with  bedding  rolls  strapped  to  the  rear,  and  the  four  dust-coated  taxi-drivers  smoking  asthey  sit  at  the  foot  of  the  obe-  lisk.  The  urban  jumble  will  explain  the  lines  in  Jehane's  forehead  above  the  bridge  of  her  sunglasses  when  she  crosses  the  piazza.  The  car  halts  behind  the  costume-  and-makeup  trailer  and  an  orange  gen-  erator  truck  from  which  spill  out  black  electric  cables;  up  and  down  the  traver-  tine  curl  of  the  Spanish  Steps,  extras  and  passersby  hurry  or  stand.  The  workmen  turnwith  an  air  of  expectancy  as  Mar-  cus  climbs  out  of  the  car-a  wooden-  faced  episcopal  figure  in  the  stillness  at  the  altar  beneath  the  dome.  A  bystand-  er,  a  woman,  cries  out,  &quot;Je  vous  at  touw-  jours  ador\xc3\xa9e,  Jehane!&quot;  Jehane  smiles  at  the  ground,  sombre-faced.  She  and  Oskar  are  hurried  off  to  the  costume  trailer  by  the  makeup  man.  43616e616461us  waves  to  the  electricians.  &quot;Notcom-  minciamo,  si?&quot;  They  call  &quot;87&quot;  and  smile.  The  lighting  man,  brought  from  [REDACTED],  points  to  the  lights  already  in  place  on  the  second  landing,  where  Jehane  will  meet  Oskar  going  down.  There  is  to  bea  closeup  of  their  faces,  and  43616e616461us  wants  the  faces  to  be  with-  out  shadow.  &quot;Bon,&quot;  43616e616461us  says,  grip-  ping  the  man's  shoulder.  &quot;Nous  com-  mengcons.&quot;  43616e616461us  greets  the  script  girl  and  the  Italian  workmen  and  the  Ital-  ian  translators:  &quot;Nous  commengcons.  ...  Noi  comminciamo.&quot;  And  he  smiles  and  pauses  to  shake  hands.  &quot;Un  buon  mo-  mento,  non?&quot;  He  has  charm;  he  finds  it  easy  to  be  charming  whenever  he  is  certain  people  are  listening.  He  greets  Whitehart,  the  assistant  di-  rector,  with  overt  affection,  as  if  it  has  been  months  instead  of  hours  since  he  saw  him  last.  He  puts  his  arm  around  Whitchart's  shoulder,  and  Whitehart  returns  the  gesture.  Whitehart  tells  him  that  Liselotte  (the  Munich  strip-teaser  who  is  to  play  Oskar's  middle-class,  self-  conscious,  sexual-looking  wife;  Oskar  will  describe  her  to  Jehane  as  cold.  &quot;Und  du,  du  bist  ...  Ich  kann  nicht  sagen.  ...&quot;  The  audience  will  not  know  if  he  is  lying)  has  had  a  broken  filling,  has  been  to  the  dentist,  is  a  little  shaken  but  otherwise  all  right.  43616e616461us  nods.  We  are  all  breakable,  he  thinks.  Whitehart  goes  over  the  order  of  the  takes  to  be  shot  that  day.  43616e616461us  listens;  details  are  commands  of  conscience.  The  sunlight  touches  him.  He  is  seized  by  a  nervous  desire  to  begin  to  hunt  down  in  the  sunlight  and  in  the  faces  of  the  actors  the  shadows  of  meaning  in  his  movie.  He  wants  to  ask  W  hitehart  if  the  camera  boom  is  in  place  atop  the  Spanish" b"Stairs  for  the  first  scene,  but  he  cannot  think  of  the  word  &quot;boom,&quot;  and  he  points  and  says,  &quot;The  thing-the  thing.&quot;  Whitehart  says,  &quot;The  boom?  It's  there.  Ready,&quot;  and  43616e616461us  smiles  at  him  and  says,  &quot;Thank  you.&quot;  R3BIN  took  him  to  [REDACTED]  and  intro-  duced  him  to  Sukie  Tredwell,  his  cousin.  Sukie  was  getting  over  a  crush  on  Robin.  Sukie  said  she  was  in  love  with  43616e616461us  and  acted  as  if  she  were.  She  was  short,  thin,  and  her  face  was  porcelain  white  and  sunrise  pink,  her  hair  ash  blond;  her  hips  were  wide,  her  shoulders  high.  She  chain-smoked,  and  spoke  in  a  small,  nasal,  high-pitched  flat-  in-tone  voice,  very  directly  and  simply.  Sukie  was  a  prism  in  which  sunlight  broke  up  into  a  rainbow.  43616e616461us's  hap-  piness  was  vertiginous,  steep-sided  like  a  cliff.  Summer  came.  At  Scantuate,  Robin  sprawled  in  a  wicker  chair  and  picked  at  strips  of  skin  peeling  from  the  sun-  burn  on  his  arms  while  he  hummed  and  grimaced  to  a  broadcast  recording  of  &quot;Don  Giovanni&quot;  on  the  radio.  Night  made  mirrors  of  the  windows  of  the  porch,  the  sea  soughed,  and  the  sough-  ing  curled  the  night  outside  into  a  shell.  &quot;Sukie,&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;I  want  to  tell  you  something,  something  very  strange.&quot;  &quot;May  I  listen?&quot;  Robin  asked.  &quot;Well,  you're  here,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  &quot;Sukie,  I  have  a  very  strange  mind.  Listen,  I'm  just  sitting  here  just  now,  and  it  was  like-well,  a  man  in  armor  walked  in,&quot;  he  said  quickly,  interpolat-  :|  ing,  improvising  to  soften  what  was  real-  ly  in  his  mind.  &quot;He  walked  in  through  that  door.  I  could  see  the  straw  mat  through  his  feet,  and  he  struck  me  on  the  arm  with  his  sword.  I  have  a  big  wound  on  my  arm.  I  have  a  wound  but  not  on  my  arm.  My  wound  is  your  mouth.  I  look  at  you  and  it  changes;  then  it's  your  mouth  is  my  wound.  And  I'm  going  to  die.  But  I  can  close  this  wound  if  I  kiss  you.&quot;  &quot;Good  God,  Pony!&quot;  43616e616461us  was  called  Polo  (43616e616461o  Polo)  and  Pony  (Polo  pony)  and  sometimes  Pony  Boy.  Robin,  his  large  gray  eyes  fogged  from  listening  to  music,  exclaimed,  waving  one  large  hand  irritably  in  the  air,  &quot;Kiss  my  cousin  if  you  want,  take  herout  in  the  garden  if  you  want,  but  cut  out  the  Hebrew  poetry.  Mozart  is  being  played.&quot;  &quot;Shut  up,  Redbreast,&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  blushing.  &quot;Come  on,  Sukie.&quot;  He  and  Sukie  stepped  outside.  The  night  wid-  ened  around  them.  They  walked  through  the  squares  of  orange  light  that  fell  on  the  path  from  the  porch  win-  " b"dows  (inside,  Robin,  his  legs  over  the  arm  of  his  chair,  jiggled  one  foot  high  in  the  air  to  &quot;Il  mio  tesoro&quot;)  and  then  in  the  dark  made  their  way  to  the  rim  of  the  bluff.  There  was  no  moon,  only  a  vast  dusting  of  stars,  and  the  lightsin  houses  across  the  bay  sparkling  fireworks  trails  on  the  water,  and  occasional  head-  lights  of  cars  driving  along  the  shore  road.  43616e616461us  said  he  didn't  mean  to  be  boring  but  he  really  wanted  to  know  what  Sukie  thought  of  his  mind.  &quot;W  ait:  you  know  what  I  was  just  thinking?  We're  all  death.  We're  little  envelopes  around  death,  and  everywhere  we  walk  we  arrive  like  the  mail,  and  people  ap-  proach  us  with  hope,  with  letter  openers  in  their  hand  to  open  their  mail-that's  what  I  was  just  thinking.  .  ..&quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;Everybody  gets  strange  thoughts.  I  have  very  strange  thoughts,  too.  Like  I'm  going  to  die  any  minute-  things  like  that.&quot;  43616e616461us  thought  abruptly  it  was  true  (it  sounded  true);  everyone  had  strange  thoughts,  and  he  was  callow  and  inex-  perienced  to  have  thought  it  odd  in  him-  self.  He  laughed  suddenly.  &quot;Letter  openers-ha,  ha.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  mind  the  way  you  talk,&quot;  Sukie  said.  &quot;I  think  you're  very,  very  sensitive.  I  help  make  you  secure,  don't  IPJ)  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  do.&quot;  43616e616461us  told  no  one  (except  Nanna,  later),  discussed  with  no  one  (except  Robin  )  that  he  loved  Sukie.  He  wanted  no  one's  opinions,  no  one's  breath,  to  touch  his  love.  A  second  Adam,  he  saw  that  all  leaved  plants  were  beautiful,  and  that  on  window  sills  sunbeams  slowly  seesawed  once  each  day.  Sukie  held  a  cigarette  between  the  tips  of  her  short,  square  fingers.  She  lay  supine  on  a  towel  at  the  beach,  and  said,  &quot;It's  a  perfectly  beautiful  day,  isn't  it,  43616e616461o?  Isn't  it  the  most  beautiful  day?&quot;  He  had  been  wrong  ever  to  doubt  himself.  Such  errors  were  conceived  in  the  vagaries  of  manners  (like  light  dancing  on  some-  thing  bright  and  obscuring  what  lay  be-  neath);  people  when  upset  invented  faults,  but  there  were  no  faults,  only  bad  habits.  People  were  achingly  akin.  He  was  sixteen.  He  waited  on  Sukie's  pleasure  with  the  care  and  attention  with  which  he  waited  on  Nanna's,  and  he  was  grateful  and  flattered  when  she  was  pleased  by  his  devotion.  He  was  circumspect  and  watchful  of  the  decencies.  He  was  half  in  love  with  Sukie's  mother,  whose  breasts  bobbled,  and  whose  eyes  were  electric  and  dark,  and  who  spoke  in  a  baritone  register  when  she  wanted  to  be  funny:  &quot;My  God,  here  comes  Sukie's  " b"lov-err,&quot;  the  &quot;err&quot;  of&quot;lov-err'&quot;  drop-  ping  to  C  below  middle  C.  Or  she'd  say,  &quot;Here  comes  Sukie's  swarthy,  handsome  lov-err,&quot;  and  offer  him  a  drink.  She  radiated  an  intense  aware-  ness  of  him,  of  what  was  happening;  she  had  an  air  of  caprice,  of  serious  devotion  to  the  idea  and  practice  of  love.  Sukie  said,  &quot;No,  don't  go  photo-  graphing.  Lie  on  the  beach  with  me.&quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;Robin  is  more  sensitive  than  you  are,  but  you're  a  more  complete  per-  son.&quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;Everybody  knows  Jews  make  the  best  lovers  and  hus-  bands.&quot;  Lying  on  the  beach,  she  per-  mitted  him  to  kiss  her  arm,  her  leg,  the  small  of  her  back.  She  never  touched  him.  She  would  lie  still,  growing  more  and  more  rigid  while  he  slowly  kissed  her,  and  then  she  would  sit  up,  pushing  her  hair  back,  a  heroine,  and  say,  &quot;Oh,  Pony,  I'm  mad  about  you.  It's  inevi-  table,  isn't  it?  We  will-all  that,  I  sup-  pose.  It's  inevitable,  don't  you  feel  that,  Pony?&quot;  OSKAR  stands  at  the  top  railing,  look-  ingout  over  4974616c79;  the  Spanish  Stairs  fall  away  beneath  him.  A  young  workman  guards  an  electric  fan  that  stands  on  the  railing  and  blows  Oskar's  hair.  Oskar  looks  unconscionably  noble,  even  in  his  sunglasses.  &quot;Look  up  higher  in  the  sky,&quot;  43616e616461us  instructs  him.  &quot;Oskar,  meine  Liebe,  this  is  the  City  of  the  Popes.&quot;  43616e616461us  leans  precariously  over  the  railing  and  sights  through  a  portable  camera  at  Oskar's  face.  &quot;It  must  be  overexposed,&quot;  he  says  to  Alliat;  he  wants  Oskar's  face  to  be  like  a  pencil  drawing-a  few  lines,  and  the  darkness  of  his  sunglasses,  and  the  reflection  of  the  view  in  them,  and  Oskar's  mouth.  Oskar's  mouth,  if  he  can  lead  Oskar  into  the  right  mood,  will  be  alive  and  dan-  gerous:  an  artful  shape,  the  instrument  of  the  most  human  music.  Oskar,  determinedly  holding  his  pose,  remarks,  &quot;''That  one  is  the  Keats'  House,  je?  He  is  your  great  poet.  Truth  is  beauty  and  beauty  truth'  -  \xe2\x80\x98\xef\xac\x82?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Mein  Schatz,&quot;  43616e616461us  savs,  &quot;low-  er  your  chin  perhaps  one  inch.&quot;  43616e616461us  minutely  and  slowly  inches  the  camera  this  way  and  that.  Oskar's  mouth  grows  bedraggled  but  dutiful.  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;When  I  was  a  child,I  spoke  as  a  child  and  acted  like  a  man,  with  bows  and  arrows  and  guns,  but  now  I'm  a  man  and  spend  my  time  doing  childish  things.&quot;  Oskar  smiles  vacantly.  Mar-  cus  says,  &quot;Willi,  imagine  a  naked  wom-  an  in  the  shower,  completely  unself-  conscious;  she  does  not  know  you're  watching.&quot;  Oskar's  lips  thin  sensually.  43616e616461us  beckons  and  Alliat  leans  over     " b"him,  observes  the  position  of  the  camera,  takes  it  from  him  while  43616e616461us  scram-  bles  free.  43616e616461us  holds  a  small  mirror  in  front  of  the  camera  and  studies  Oskar's  reflection  in  it,  and  says,  &quot;To  the  right.  Up.  A  bit  m-  Yes.&quot;  Nanna  was  alert  and  watchful,  but  not  as  alert  and  watchful  as  a  moment  to  be  placed  on  film.  In  the  mirror,  Oskar's  face  flickers.  The  mirror  is  an  eye;  and  the  pupil,  the  tunnel  to  percep-  tion  and  the  capture  by  memory,  is  Mar-  cus.  On  the  glassy  lids  of  the  large,  sil-  vered,  metal-rimmed  sunglasses  Oskar  wears  float  twin  reflections  of  a  swarm  of  roofs,  sweetened  by  the  rising  in  their  midst  of  grayish,  high-arched  domes.  Oskar's  hair  moves.  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;Oscar,  mein  Schatz,  what  would  it  be  like  if  they  put  up  a  statue  to  you  in  the  Villa  Borghese  as  the  most  talented  German  since  Goethe?&quot;  Oskar  takes  a  deep,  simmering  breath.  An  internal  shift  occurs  within  the  oval  of  Oskar's  face-a  queer  light,  an  illumination.  He  looks  Olympian.  He  waits,  unat-  tached  and  daydreaming,  and  43616e616461us  touches  Alliat's  knee  and  the  camera  starts  up,  stops,  starts  up  again.  The  camera  whirs  a  third  time.  &quot;That's  it  for  the  moment,&quot;  43616e616461us  says.  He  touches  Oskar's  shoulder.  The  actor  has  grown  into  the  railing,  the  sunlight,  the  daydream,  and  must  be  summoned  back.  MARCUS  sat  in  the  classroom  unpro-  tected,  his  feet  on  the  floor,  his  head  and  eyes  lowered  as  if  a  wind  blew.  In  the  shower  room,  he  exclaimed  in-  wardly,  &quot;I  love  you,  Sukie.&quot;  He  wrote  her,  &quot;I  love  you.&quot;  His  roommate  bumped  into  him  and  43616e616461us  lashed  out,  &quot;Don't  you  touch  me!&quot;  43616e616461us  cried  out  in  his  sleep,  &quot;Sukie!&quot;  He  wrote  her,  &quot;I  miss  you  crazily.&quot;  Robin  played  the  pander.  He  asked,  &quot;When  are  you  two  going  to  sleep  to-  gether?&quot;  43616e616461us  shouted,  &quot;I  don't  want  to  hurt  her!  I  don't  want  to  do  any  harm!&quot;  Robin  said,  &quot;Don't  tell  me  you  think  sex  is  wicked,  Pony.  Haven't  you  ever  read  a  book?  Haven't  you  read  D.  H.  Lawrence?&quot;  Robin  said,  &quot;There's  a  real  beauty  when  a  woman  becomes  a  woman.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;Jewish  morality  has  crushed  everything  in  Western  culture  that's  beautiful  and  natural.  If  our  own  sense  that  it  is  necessary  to  sin-and  Freud,  of  course-hadn't  come  along,  we'd  all  be  neurotic  Calvinists.  Tell  me,  Pony,  do  you  believe  in  the  Old  Testa-  ment?&quot;  Beneath  the  springs  of  the  upper  bunk  distended  with  the  weight  of  his  room-  " b"mate's  sleeping  body(whose  breaths  made  runners  of  sound  in  the  darkness),  43616e616461us  lay  in  a  tangle  of  imaginings.  He  yearned  to  tell  Nanna,  far  away,  in  [REDACTED],that  he  was  about  to  become  transfigured.  He  saidto  Sukie  over  the  phone,  &quot;Sukie,  I  want-  Listen,  I  don't  mean  to  be  a  bastard,  but  I--  Sukie,  please  just  tell  me  when.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Pony,&quot;  Sukie  said  in  a  small  voice.  &quot;Whenever  you  want.  I'm  help-  less  in  your  hands,  43616e616461o.&quot;  Robin  made  a  reservation  at  a  hotel  in  [REDACTED]  and  drove  43616e616461us  up  the  afternoon  the  Thanksgiving  holidays  began.  Sukie  came  by  train  from  her  school  in  [REDACTED].  Robin  said,  &quot;You  have  two  hours  before  I  have  to  get  Sukie  home,&quot;  and  he  said  he  would  wait  in  the  coffee  shop.  In  the  hotel  room,  the  pleasure  was  brusque,  simple,  and  heart-stopping.  When  it  was  over,  Sukie  said,  &quot;You  control  all  our  lives,  mine  and  Robin's  and  my  parents'!  You're  incredibly  powerful.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;You're  beautiful  and  very  sexy  and  have  a  much  nicer  body  than  Robin's.&quot;  She  said  she'd  slept  with  Robin  but  it  hadn't  meant  any-  thing,  not  like  this;  and  once  with  a  boy  in  [REDACTED],  but  that  hadn't  meant  any-  thing,  either.  &quot;Pony,  I'm  embarrassed.  Everyone  will  see  the  change  in  me.  I  know  I'm  going  to  blossom.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;Are  you  one  of  those  men  who  only  want  what  they  can't  have?&quot;  She  said,  &quot;Iwish  you  weren't  going  to  New  York,.  I  don't  know  what  I'll  do  with-  out  you.&quot;  She  said  she  hated  her  mother  and  her  mother  hated  her.  She  said  boys  never  liked  her.  She  said  the  girls  at  her  school  avoided  her.  She  said  she  wanted  to  kill  herself.  She  said,  &quot;I  know  you'll  bring  me  happiness.  Everybody  knows  that  Jews  make  the  best  husbands  and  lovers,&quot;  At  Christmastime,  43616e616461us  told  his  father  he  had  to  return  to  [REDACTED]  Satur-  day  morning  to  see  Robin  about  the  school  play.  In  [REDACTED],  snow  was  com-  ing  on.  He  arrived  bone-broken  and  askew  with  longing  for  the  sensation--  very  like  the  assurance  of  being  want-  ed-that  had  come  when  Sukie  un-  dressed  andhad  let  him  hold  her.  He  was  dull  with  a  sense  of  humiliation  he  couldn't  identify.  He  thought,  She  needs  me.  He  was  racked  by  astonish-  ment  as  much  as  by  desire.  From  the  hotel,  he  called  Sukie;  she  said  she  would  come  as  soon  as  shecould.  He  waited,  and  the  moments  seemed  to  him  to  lack  walls,  roofs,  and  floors.  Never  since  had  he  experienced  anticipation  so  violently.  At  four  o'clock,  Robin  and  Sukie  ar-  rived-together.  43616e616461us  told  Robin," b"&quot;Please  go  away,&quot;  and  when  Robin  left,  without  a  word,  43616e616461us  began  to  undress  Sukie.  In  the  silence,  it  was  as  if  certain  sounds  that  had  been  curtained  by  a  rush  of  noise  became  audible.  Sukie  grew  nervous.  43616e616461us  told  her  to  hold  still.  She  said,  &quot;You  don't  know  what  you're  doing;  this  is  creepy,&quot;  and  began  to  cry.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;Sukie,  what  did  I  do  Wr\xef\xac\x82ng?\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;You  don't  act  as  if  you  like  me.&quot;  Red-faced  and  taut,  43616e616461us  assured  her  that  he  liked  her,  swore  that  he  did;  he  swore  it  on  his  soul.  Sukie  blinked,  then  said  submissively,  &quot;All  right.&quot;  After  that  they  made  love.  When  Robin  came  back,  43616e616461us  went  to  the  door,  wrapped  in  a  blanket,  and  said,  &quot;Give  us  five  minutes  and  we'll  get  dressed.&quot;  Robin  said,  &quot;No,  let  me  in.  I  won't  peek,&quot;  and  he  came  in  and  sat  on  the  foot  of  the  bed.  He  leaned  across  Sukie's  ankles  and  talked  rapidly-chattered  about  what  an  ugly  town  [REDACTED]  was,  how  dreary  winter  was.  Sukie  and  Mar-  cus  lay  as  quietly  as  corpses.  Robin  turned  his  head  away  while  Sukie  got  dressed.  (He'd  said  like  a  gym  instruc-  tor,  &quot;It's  time  we  got  going.&quot;  )  43616e616461us  remained  in  bed,  propped  against  the  headboard,  the  blanket  up  to  his  shoul-  ders.  Robin's  weight  hurt  his  ankles.  Stiff-necked  with  excitement,  Robin  said,&quot;I'll  bring  her  back  whenever  I  can.&quot;  43616e616461us  returned  to  school  and  told  himself  that  people  were  all  alike.  Sukie  would  soon  change  for  him,  as  he  had  changed  for  Nanna's  sake.  She  would  become  a  warm,  responsive,  trustworthy  girl.  He  would  help  her  and  be  strong.  At  the  same  time,  he  longed  to  escape  from  her.  But  he  wanted  her,  too.  He  wrote  Sukie  twice  a  day.  He  was  tired  and  could  not  sleep.  He  toppled  into  periods  of  nervous  exhaustion  and  lay  staring  at  the  wall,  drenched  with  sweat.  He'd  lock  the  door  of  his  room  at  such  times;  he  wanted  no  one  to  see  him.  Feelings  that  he  could  not  put  a  name  to,  incomprehensible  but  power-  ful  feelings,  like  abstract  paintings:  a  blue  one,  a  blue-and-black  one,  a  gray  one  shot  through  with  viridian-filled  his  head  and  chest.  The  recollection  of  the  texture  of  the  skin  on  Sukie's  back  drove  him  from  the  lunch  table  to  walk  slack-  jawed,  both  exalted  and  wretched,  in  the  snow.  He  began  to  avoid  his  mind.  (When  he  grew  older,  he  found  he  could  avoid  his  mind  easily  whenever  he  wanted  except  when  trying  to  fall  asleep;  to  quiet  his  mind  then,  he  would  drink  two  shots  of  brandy  and  take  a" b"Seconal,  and  wander  around  his  bed-  room  until  he  entered  a  state  of  near  idiocy;  only  then,  when  he  fell  on  his  bed,  would  he  find  unconsciousness  within  reach.)  Sukie's  letters  burned  like  dry  ice;  in  them  she  complained  of  her  classmates,  described  her  feelings-  &quot;Everybody  looks  at  me;  I  think  I'm  blossoming&quot;&quot;-  begged  him  to  arrange  with  Robin  to  drive  down  to  her  school:  &quot;I'm  going  out  of  my  mind.  I'm  suicidal.  I'm  so  bored,  43616e616461o.  I  must  see  you.  I  love  you.&quot;  He'd  make  arrangements  to  go  with  Robin  to  [REDACTED]  to  stay  in  Gamma  Fos-  ter's  house  on  Saturday  night,  and  then,  Robin  telling  Gamma  Foster  he  and  43616e616461us  were  going  to  the  movies,  they'd  drive  to  [REDACTED],  both  boys  sitting  hunched  forward  as  if  to  hurry  the  car  on.  Sometimes  he  felt  Sukie's  presence  was  unpleasant  and  he  would  tell  him-  self  passionately  that  she  was  stubborn,  insisted  on  being  unlovable,  did  not  care  if  she  alienated  him  or  not;  she  was  spoiled.  He  watched  her  face  always.  He  knew  its  lineaments.  He  saw  appari-  tions  in  it,  landscapes,  the  hues  of  flow-  ers.  When  his  will  faltered,  he  saw  it  as  something  associated  with  pain,  a  band-  age.  Sometimes  a  mood  would  warm  that  porcelain-white  face  and  him,  and  he  would  begin  again  the  fall  of  falling  in  love.  On  his  way  to  see  her,  not  knowing  what  he  would  find,  his  heart  and  nerves  went  rackatty-clack  like  a  half-empty  train  rushing  through  a  countryside  at  night.  He'd  arrive  and  his  eyes  would  fly  to  that  face.  (&quot;Don't,  Pony.  It  makes  me  so  nervous  when  you  stare  at  me.&quot;)  If  her  face  was  trampled  or  muddied,  he  would  grow  distant  and  emotionless,  like  a  doctor;  he  was  anxious  to  help  her,  not  to  be  bad  for  her.  He  tried  to  be  a  proper  lover,  like  one  in  books,  and  he  told  her-remembering  another  moment  when  he  had  been  unable  to  speak-that  she  was  the  sun  and  wind  and  clouds  and  a  rosebush.  Sukie  brightened  and  said,  &quot;Oh,  that's  lovely.&quot;  He  continued  with  increasing  sincerity,  and  compared  her  to  the  craziness  of  dreams,  to  a  beach,  to  warm  sand  and  the  sun  mak-  ing  you  dizzy,  and  sand  fleas  making  your  legs  twitch.  She  said,  &quot;I  don't  think  I  like  that.  No,  it's  nasty.&quot;  She  looked  uneasy.  He  said  he  hadn't  meant  anything,  a  beach  was  a  force  of  na-  ture-he'd  only  meant  to  compare  her  to  a  force  of  nature.  She  was  most  peaceful  when  he  was  tired,  half  asleep  (although  in  his  pride  he  did  not  like  admitting  to  her  that  he  was  tired).  'Then,  sometimes,  she'd  touch  him  or  smile  in  a  warm  way.  It " b"excited  and  exhilarated  her  when  the  three  of  them-Sukie,  Robin,  and  Mar-  cus-went  out  together  in  Robin's  car.  Bars  wouldn't  se  rve  Sukie;  in  the  car,  Robi  n,  43616e616461us,  and  Sukie  passed  a  pint  of  bourbon  back  and  forth.  Th  ey  drove  on  back  roads,  safe  from  observation  in  their  world  insid  e  the  car.  They  often  went  at  ninety,  the  automobile  swaying,  with  only  the  loosest  connection  to  the  road,  the  earth,  to  fixedloca-  tions.  The  air  inside  the  car  was  dry  and  warmed  by  the  heater  and  c  hilled  by  cold  leaking  in  at  the  windows  ,  and  faintly  visible  with  their  breaths,  and  sweetish  with  the  smell  of  whiskey.  Sukie's  excitement  affected  43616e616461us  as  if  she  were  a  flag.  She  cried,  &quot;A  cigg  y-b  oo,  I  must  have  a  ciggy-boo.  Did  you  rememb  er  my  Sen-  Sen:  &quot;  She  said,  &quot;That  school's  a  tomb!&quot;  Robin  said,  &quot;  'The  grave's  a  fine  and  private  place,  /  But  none,  I  think,  do  there  embrace.&quot;  &quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;I  love  you,  43616e616461o.&quot;  Outside  the  car,  moonli  ght  lay  trem-  ulously  on  the  thin  fields.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;The  wo  rld  is  coming  to  an  end  to-  night.&quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;Don't  be  gloomy.  Let  yourself  go  on  the  Happiness  Swings.&quot;  Happiness  Swing  s  were  the  opposit  e  of  Bad  Weeks.  &quot;It's  a  Bad  Week,&quot;  Sukie  sometimes  said.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;I  am  on  i  t.&quot;  But  Sukie  said,  &quot;No,  yo  u're  not.&quot;  She  turned  to  Robin.  &quot;Isn't  43616e616461us  diffic  ult?  He  scar  es  me.&quot;  Robin  agreed  .  43616e616461us  was  awesome.  43616e616461us  didn't  see  it.  Rob  in's  tong  ue  was  more  cutting  than  his-Robin  said  Gamma  Foster  had  a  face  like  the  Bible.  Sukie  and  Robin  were  less  senti  ment  al,  less  eager  to  please,  too,  than  he  was.  &quot;Do  I  seem  to  you  abnormal?  Maybe  what  bothers  you  is  that  I'm  Jewish.&quot;  &quot;But  you're  not  all  Jewish,&quot;  Robin  said.  Sukie  said,  &quot;  It  isn't  being  Jewish  that  makes  you  so  dif  ficul  t.&quot;  43616e616461us  was  accustomed  to  women  approving  of  him  most  when  he  was  happy.  &quot;Oh,  God,  I'm  happy!&quot;  he  exclaimed.  &quot;You  just  don't  know.  I  used  to  think  when  I  was  a  kid  nothing  would  eve  r  happen.&quot;  &quot;All  kids  think  that,&quot;  Robin  said,  one  arm  on  Sukie's  shoulder.  Sukie  said,  &quot;I  did,  Do  you  want  to  hear  a  joke?  Knock,  knock.  Who's  there?  Abie.  Abie  who?  A.B.C.&quot;  She   giggled and leaned her head on 43616e616461us's shoulder, then on Robin's. They stopped, and walked barefoot in the snowy field, shouting and laughing. 43616e616461us threw himself down on the      " b"snow  and  stretched  his  arms  out  and  said,  &quot;I  am  ready  for  Easter.&quot;  Sukie  circled,  turned  round  and  around  in  the  field,  her  shadow  hopping  behind  her,  then  in  front  of  her.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;&quot;She's  dancing  with  crows.&quot;  Robin  went  for  a  walk  while  43616e616461us  and  Sukie  lay  in  the  car,  their  breaths  feathery,  their  eyes  shining  in  the  dark.  Robin  returned,  and  then  they  drove  to  the  door  of  Sukie's  school.  The  girl  43616e616461us  held  was  muffled  in  a  coat,  was  warm,  and  smelled  faintly  of  gardenia  soap.  &quot;Oh,  Pony,  I  have  to  go  back  to  the  tomb.  I  love  you.&quot;  Robin  said,  &quot;Wait,  Suke!  have  some  Sen-Sen.&quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;Oops,  stupid  me!&quot;  Smil-  ing  secretively,  she  put  her  arms  around  Robin's  neck  and  Robin  kissed  her  ear.  On  the  way  back  to  [REDACTED],  Mar-  cus  said,  &quot;I  don't  like  the  way  you  kiss  Sukie.  'd  like  to  smash  your  teeth  in.&quot;  &quot;Look,  Pony.  She  hap-  pens  to  be  my  cousin.  I-&quot;  &quot;Shut  up!  Shut  the  hell  up!&quot;  After  a  minute  or  so,  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;Oh,  God,  I'm  sorry.  I'm  sorry,  Redbreast.  You  know  I'm  crazy.  I'm  so  much  in  love,  you  know.&quot;  He  Better  sat  slouched  in  his  seat,  tired,  nervous,,  in  anagony  of  fatigue.  The  dark,  now  stale  air  in  the  car  seemed  to  him  a  fit  setting  for  himself.  IN  the  movie,  Jehane,  after  coming  to  understand  that  Oskar  does  not  in-  tend  to  divorce  his  wife,  returns  to  her  pensione,  opens  the  door  of  the  room,  and  steps  inside  without  turning  on  the  light.  At  first,  she  simply  sits  in  the  darkness;  then  she  begins  to  sob,  reach-  ing  into  her  purse  on  the  bureau  for  a  handkerchief  to  stuff  between  her  lips  to  prevent  herself  from  making  a  noise  and  disturbing  the  other  tenants  in  the  pensione.  She  falls  on  the  floor  and  cries  without  asound,  accepting  almost  with  relief  the  humiliation.  She  does  not  move,  but  continues  to  cry  silently  on  the  floor.  Earlier  in  the  movie,  before  she  meets  Oskar,  she  walks  along  the  Via  Con-  dotti,  past  the  store  windows,  the  reflec-  tions,  the  things  for  sale.  (The  camera  will  be  low,  at  waist  height,  because  43616e616461us  thinks  one  of  the  secrets  of  the  beauty  and  credibility  of  Italian  Renaissance  frescoes  is  that  the  figures  seem  to  be  taller  or  on  higher  ground  than  we  are  and  we  have  to  look  up  at  them;  this  helps  persuade  us  of  their  real-  ity,  because  we  remain  children  and  continue  all  our  lives  to  crane  our  necks  to  see  the  expressions  on  the  grownups'  faces.)  And  she  will  walk  past  a  young     man  in  sunglasses  similar  to  hers;  she  will  slightlyhesitate,  as  if  amused  that  he  is  wearing  similar  sunglasses,  but  then,  because  the  young  man  does  not  smile  at  her,  she  hurries  on  in  an  access  of  memory  of  what  she  expects  for  herself,  ending  what  43616e616461us  calls  a  masked  mo-  ment,  like  the  one  when  Robin  told  him,  &quot;I  don't  see  why  it  matters  in  what  way  I  take  my  pleasure.  I  don't  see  that  it  matters  in  what  way  anyone  takes  his  pleasure.&quot;  She  prefers  flight  to  self-  knowledge.  She  careers  on,  grandiose  and  virginal.  Between  the  Jehane  of  the  Via  Condotti  and  the  Jehane  of  the  pensione  lies  the  death  of  the  hardness  of  her  self-regard.  Oskar  intervenes  between  the  two  Jehanes.  43616e616461us  says  to  him,  &quot;It  is  your  second  day  in  4974616c79.  You  have  left  your  hotel  and  walked  through  the  Villa  Borghese.  Trees  and  children.  The  Latin  sense  of  design.  Your  wife  hangs  heavily  on  your  arm;  you  walk  a  little  too  fast  for  her.  You  made  a  mistake  mar-  rying  her.  She  asks  ques-  tions:  'W  hat  is  that?  What  is  that?&quot;  And  'that'  is  only  the  water  clock.  Yesterday  with  her  was  dull.  Today  seems  it  will  be  dull,  too.  But  you  don't  show  irrita-  tion;  you  are  good-natured.  Always.  You  are  clean  in  the  sense  that  you  never  rebuke  yourself.  You  have  a  very  fine  sense  of  life.  Do  you  understand?&quot;  Oskar  nods,  his  face  slipping  into  lines  of  ease,  intensely  good-natured  and  im-  penetrable;  his  face  looks  scrubbed.  43616e616461us  gazes  at  him  and  says,  &quot;Good.&quot;  He  glances  over  Oskar's  shoulder  at  Liselotte,  the  Munich  strip-teaser  who  is  to  play  Oskar-Willi's  wife.  She  sits  in  a  canvas  chair  beneath  a  tree,  in  speckled  light  and  shadow,  hands  folded  in  her  lap,  eyes  closed.  43616e616461us  thinks,  Her  tooth  still  hurts.  Oh,  does  she  feel  self-  pity!  And  he  grows  cold,  froglike.  He  beckons  to  W  hitehart.  &quot;Tell  her  just  to  playshe  is  in  a  strange  city.  'Tell  her  not  to  try  to  act.  I  don't  want  to  touch  her  mood.&quot;  Whitehart  winks,  and  hurries  off.  43616e616461us  stands,  measuring  the  two  realities  of  Liselotte  with  the  fingers  of  his  mind.  Her  real  inexperience  and  nervousness,  her  attempt  to  deceive  the  camera  and  to  appear  not  like  a  strip-  tease  artist  from  Munich,  will  become  on  film  the  unhappy  manner  of  a  mid-  dle-class  lady  whose  manners  are  all  at  sea  with  her  pretenses.  Her  heavy  breasts  will  be  the  lure  and  misinforma-  tion  that  caught  Oskar-Willi.  (43616e616461us  thinks  with  amusement  of  Oskar-  Willi's  illusions,  and  how  easily  he  is  fooled.)  The  audience,  43616e616461us  hopes,  will  recognize  in  Liselotte's  two  realities  " b"the  same  blur  of  identity  that  obscures  the  people  they  know.  aArRCUs  took  refuge  in  principle  (his  determination  strengthened  by  a  Gary  Cooper  film;  the  theatre  was  dark,  like  chaos-the  images  on  the  screen  clear  and  large,  light-filled),  when  his  trying  to  figure  out  what  he  felt,  or  what  Robin  was  like,  or  Sukie,  led  him  to  the  admission  that  he  was  guess-  ing,  that  he  did  not  know.  He  went  to  the  school  doctor  and  asked  for  a  sedative,  giving  as  the  reason  that  he  was  studying  too  hard.  He  told  Sukie  he  couldn't  see  her  in  [REDACTED]  over  Easter  vacation.  &quot;Nanna's  come  up  from  111  [REDACTED].  I  owe  it  to  her-I  want  to  see  her.  It's  not  that  I  don't  want  to  see  }|  you,  but  I  owe  it  to  her.&quot;  But  then  Sukie  followed  him  to  Scantuate  with  her  mother,  Robin,  and  Gamma  Foster;  Gamma  Foster  wanted  to  smell  the  lilacs  and  the  sea,  and  sat  all  morning  on  an  open  porch,  wrapped  in  a  blanket,  not  reading,  not  sleeping.  (She  fell  the  following  winter  and  broke  her  hip  and  became  an  invalid  until  her  death  four  years  later.)  The  children  roosted  in  the  light  damp  chill  of  an  up-  stairs  porch.  The  wicker  couch  creaked  when  Robin  stretched  out  and  laid  his  head  in  Sukie's  lap.  43616e616461us  stood  up  and  said,  &quot;I  want  to  go  photographing  at  Miller's  Pond.&quot;  &quot;What  a  dreary  idea,&quot;  Robin  said.  &quot;I  don't  feel  energetic,&quot;  Sukie  said.  43616e616461us  looked  at  Sukie  and  saw  a  short,  square-shouldered,  moon-bodied  girl.  He  bit  his  thumbnail.  &quot;I'm  going,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  right,  all  right,&quot;  Robin  said.  &quot;What  a  bore.  Our  master's  voice.&quot;  &quot;Where  was  Moses  when  the  lights  went  out?&quot;  Sukie  asked,  with  a  giggle.  &quot;If  you  don't  want  to  come,  don't!&quot;  43616e616461us  shouted,  holding  to  his  principles  like  a  monk  to  a  cross,  exorcising  de-  mons.  &quot;We're  coming.  We're  coming.&quot;  He  did  not  get  back  to  Nanna's  in  time  for  lunch,  and  Nanna  complained  he  had  given  her  no  warning  he  would  miss  the  meal:  &quot;I  didn't  know  if  you  were  stricken  with  illness.  Or  perhaps  in  a  highway  accident.&quot;  He  apologized-&quot;I'm  sorry.  I  was  photographing.  There  wasn't  a  phone&quot;  -but  he  wasn't  humble.  &quot;Please  don't  do  it  again.  You  know  how  easily  Cook  is  unsettled.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  Well,  I'd  better  warn  you  I  might  miss  lunch  the  next  few  days.  I'll  |  He  was  dis-  |  be  out  photographing.&quot;  tracted  by  a  sensation  that  he  was  being  rude,  yet  he  did  not  back  down.  The  next  evening,  Nanna  said  dryly," b"&quot;I  do  not  want  to  monopolize  your  time,  but  I  had  hoped  to  see  something  of  you  during  your  spring  vacation,  be-  cause  I  thought  I  might  send  you  to  Europe  this  summer.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;Oh,&quot;  and  stopped  photographing,  and  told  Sukie  he  was  going  to  Europe.  He  went  to  Europe  with  Mrs.  Tred-  well,  Sukie,  and  Robin;  Robin  arranged  the  party.  Europe  made  43616e616461us  un-  easy;  it  was  an  old  prostitute  armed  with  devices  to  catch  the  eye  and  the  absence  of  principles.  He  told  himself  that  he  must  be  careful  not  to  turn  into  a  shal-  low  person.  He  wrote  Nanna  every  day,  and  the  salutation,  &quot;Dearest  Nan-  na,&quot;  evoked  in  him  a  spasm  of  sorrow.  Europe  had  the  strangeness  of  a  carni-  val  on  the  edge  of  town  under  a  night  sky,  the  lights  of  theFerris  wheel  lifting  and  falling,  and  the  shouts  of  the  exiles  echoing  from  behind  the  rim  of  colored  lights.  &quot;''They  made  their  cathedrals  like  movie  theatres!&quot;  he  protested.  Robin  said,  &quot;Void,  Moses!&quot;  Mrs.  Tredwell  looked  at  43616e616461us  curiously.  Sukie  complained  he  was  avoiding  her.  He  said,  &quot;But  we're  with  your  mother.  I'm  like  a  guest-the  laws  of  hospitality!&quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;I  hate  my  mother.  My  mother  doesn't  matter.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;Oh,  God,  what  am  I  going  to  do!  You  don't  want  me  any  more.&quot;  He  took  her  into  his  arms.  Robin  was  in  the  next  room,  arranging  the  day's  plans  with  Mrs.  Tredwell.  43616e616461us  matched  Sukie's  eagerness;  the  wickedness  of  the  situation  so  worked  upon  his  senses  that  he  was  startled  by  the  pleasure.  After-  ward,  he  was  ashamed,  and  avoided  looking  at  Sukie.  Sukie  said,  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  He  said,  &quot;I  have  a  cold.&quot;  He  thought,  Oh,  God,  I'm  cuckoo.  At  lunch,  he  drank  too  much  and  desperate-  ly  imitated  the  Europeans  as  animals  as  terriers,  as  poodles,  then  as  amorous  cocker  spaniels-for  Mrs.  Tredwell,  who  laughed.  She  used  the  baritone  register  of  her  voice  and  said  warmly,  &quot;We've  never  particularly  liked  Jews  in  our  family.  You  might  call  us  anti-  Semitic.  But  we're  ell  terribly  fond  of  you.&quot;  The  drunken  seventeen-year-old  43616e616461us  clung  to  the  moral  nicety  of  the  point  that  he  must  not  allow  the  mother  of  the  girl  he  slept  with  to  be  fond  of  him  and  he  became  surly  toward  Mrs.  Tredwell.  &quot;That's  an  Irish  compli-  ment,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'You're  more  impressed  with  your  own  sentiment  than  with  me.&quot;  I  don't  like  her,  he  assured  himself.  He  told  himself  that  he  mustn't  bea  whore.  His  thoughts  were  dark,  astro- " b"nomical.  His  judgments  of  himself  and  of  Sukie  and  Robin  and  Mrs.  Tredwell  were  jumbled,  as  if  several  movies  were  being  shown  at  once  on  the  same  screen.  On  the  way  back  to  Avignon,  while  Robin  drove  the  car  and  Mrs.  Tredwell  talked,  Sukie  in  the  back  seat  beside  43616e616461us  indulged  herself  in  a  skittish  series  of  blandishments  and  displays  and  sidelong  glances  from  some  reservoir  of  erotic  imagination.  His  nerves  reacted  in  a  strained  and  exaggerated  way,  like  a  child's-everything  was  mythological  and  immense;  it  was  as  if  his  nerves  and  the  world  were  new  to  him:  Mrs.  Tredwell  was  fascinated  by  him.  &quot;You  seem  so  old  for  your  age.&quot;  He  scowled  at  Mrs.  Tredwell.  Later,  he  said,  &quot;Sukie,  we  have  to  straighten  out.&quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;You  get  pleasure  making  me  hate  myself.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;Why  can't  you  admire  me  when  I'm  trying  to  do  the  right  thing?&quot;  Mrs.  Tredwell  and  Robin  were  walking  ahead  of  them  in  the  vineyard  they  were  visiting  above  the  Rhone  on  an  afternoon  when  the  sky  was  as  much  white  as  blue.  Sukie  went  pale  and  said,  &quot;You're  crazy.  You're  sick.  You're  really  neurotic.&quot;  That  evening,  Robin  asked  43616e616461us  why  he  was  treating  Sukie  so  badly.  &quot;It's  a  matter  of  honor,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  Robin  blinked.  &quot;You  really  don't  make  sense,  Pony.&quot;  43616e616461us  shouted  at  him,  &quot;You  wouldn't  understand!  You're  slimy.&quot;  Robin  went  white.  &quot;You're  self-destructive,&quot;  he  said,  and  lit  a  ciga-  rette.  The  hillsides  above  the  road  were  green.  43616e616461us  was  silent  and  haughty.  Honor  froze  his  face.  He  had  always  thought  of  love  as  being  like  the  view  from  the  windows  of  his  father's  apart-  ment  at  dusk,  when  the  taxis  in  great  numbers  flock  back  fro=  upper  Man-  hattan  with  the  lights  on  their  roofs-  jewels  on  their  foreheads-alight.  Now  he  thought  of  it  as  the  sprung  works  of  a  clock  which  moved  the  hands  improp-  erly.  Mrs.  Tredwell  was  growing  bored  with  him.  He  observed  to  himself  that  Mrs.  Tredwell  did  not  understand  Sukie,  that  she  was  not  a  good  mother.  Sukie  had  become  hollow-eyed  and  captious.  &quot;You  think  in  clich\xc3\xa9s,&quot;  she  said  to  43616e616461us.  She  said,  &quot;Everyone  knows  photographs  can't  do  what  paint-  ing  can.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;You  have  so  many  opinions  because  you're  self-conscious  and  can't  feel  anything.&quot;  He  lay  in  bed,  sombre  in  the  dark.  Often  at  night  in  various  towns,  Rob-  in  would  slip  out  and  hunt  for  women.  Then  43616e616461us  would  lie  tautly  spread-  eagled  in  bed,  hating  the  solitude  in  the  room,  jealous  of  Robin,  contemptuous        of  himself.  He  felt  himself  grow  vague " b"and  sulky  with  concupiscence.  Mrs.  Tredwell  was  amused  by  him  again,  smiled  at  him  again;  she  spoke  of  the  nmoli-me-tangere  of  adolescence  in  her  husky  voice.  43616e616461us  winced,  drew  back,  and  stared  at  her  with  large  eyes.  She  said,  &quot;You're  impossible!&quot;  and  ignored  him.  Sukie  was  cool.  43616e616461us  wrote  Nanna,  &quot;I  think  of  Scantuate  often.  It's  hard  to  travel  with  people  day  in  and  day  out.&quot;  He  found  a  kind  of  relaxation  in  becoming  aimless  and  passive.  He  watched  Sukie  and  Robin  giggle  together  in  Juans-Les-  Pins;  they  walked,  arms  around  each  other,  affectionate  cousins.  Sukie  said,  &quot;He's  kind  to  me.  I  feel  better  with  him  than  with  you.&quot;  In  Verona,  the  party  went  through  the  Castelvecchio,  Mrs.  Tredwell  with  Sukie  and  Robin;  Mar-  cus  followed  a  different  route  through  the  rooms.  Robin  began  to  ridicule  43616e616461us  in  public.  In  4974616c79,  he  said,  'Tell  us  what  you  think  about  the  view.&quot;  He  moved  his  arm  in  a  semicir-  cle.  &quot;What's  the  great  man's  opinion?&quot;  Mrs.  Tredwell  and  Sukie  smiled,  and  43616e616461us  said  contemptuously  that  San  43616e616461o  was  like  an  advertising  cutout-  Want  to  feel  bright?  Try  Brioschi.  Sukie  was  in  love  with  Robin.  Had  always  been,  she  said.  &quot;It  was  a  strange-I  don't  know-some  kind  of  detour  or  something  I  took  with  you.&quot;  Robin  said,  &quot;Pony,  we  need  your  help,  I  helped  you.&quot;  Sukie  said,  &quot;Please,  Pony,  I'm  not  the  kind  of  girl  who  can  go  too  long  without  sex.&quot;  She  said  some-  thing  about  being  passionate.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;Sure,  I  understand.&quot;  He  pretend-  ed  to  go  to  the  movies  with  them,  and  when  they  sneaked  up  the  back  stairs  to  Robin's  and  43616e616461us's  room,  he  wan-  dered  in  the  calle  behind  the  Piazza  San  43616e616461o  until  he  was  approached  by  two  middle-aged,  dog-faced  whoresand  their  shiny-haired  pimp.  Then  he  went  off  with  them.  The  next  night,  he  rode  with  Sukie  and  Robin  and  Sukie's  mother  in  a  gon-  dola  down  the  Grand  Canal,  the  moon-  light  and  the  commune's  floodlights  playing  on  the  facades  of  palaces  (doz-  ens  of  gondolas  laden  with  other  tourists  floated  by  in  the  dark;  the  water  breathed  its  sourish  stench),  and  Mrs.  Tredwell  and  Sukie  and  Robin  laughed  and  chattered.  43616e616461us  sat  quietly.  It  did  not  matter  what  Sukie  and  Robin  did.  He  was  corrupt;  he  looked  down  on  them;  they  were  children.     MARCUS  surveys  theextras  for  the  next  shot-an  old  man  in  a  straw  hat,  a  shabby  and  badly  dressed  young  man,  a  young  girl  who  radiates  dis-  dain  to  keep  at  a  distance  the  lusts  of " b"passersby,  and  others  who  are  to  play  the  bystanders,  among  whom,  not  quite  touching  them,  the  movie  is  to  occur.  Where  Oskar  and  Liselotte  are  to  walk  has  been  marked  on  the  pavement  in  chalk;  the  camera,  mounted  on  a  dolly  on  tracks,  holds  Oskar's  and  Liselotte's  faces  and  the  reflections  in  Oskar's  sun-  glasses  (of  the  obelisk,  a  spume  of  leaves  from  the  underside  of  the  trees,  the  old  man  in  the  straw  hat).  The  reflected  obelisks  jog  up  and  down  like  inverted  sewing-machine  needles  when  Oskar  strolls  with  Liselotte,  stitching  the  mo-  ment  with  the  laws  of  optics  and  history.  At  a  signal,  the  disdainful  girl  begins  to  walk  briskly.  Her  reflection  appears  in  the  lower  left-hand  quadrant  of  Oskar's  sunglasses,  balloons  upward  when  Oskar's  head  turns  to  glance  at  her,  and  slides  off  to  the  right  and  disappears  when  Oskar  restores  his  head  to  its  for-  mer  angle,  parallel  to  his  wife's.  A  few  weeks  after  the  return  from  Europe,  in  the  sudden  quiet  in  Scantuate  after  Labor  Day,  43616e616461us  went  to  Sted-  ham's  Moor  with  his  camera.  Sukie  found  him  there;  he  looked  up  and  saw  her  watching  him-an  ash-blond,  pseudo-profound,  well-bred  girl  stand-  ing  in  the  gelid  light,  among  the  tall  brown  grasses  and  the  rocks.  &quot;Are  you  going  to  be  mean?&quot;  she  asked  him,  a  lost  girl:  Who  will  love  me?  W  ho  can  I  trust?  &quot;I  couldn't  stand  it  if  I  thought  you  were  going  to  be  cold  and  hateful  toward  me.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  that  kind  of  person,&quot;  43616e616461us  said  proudly.  The  scene  is  retaken.  Between  takes,  Liselotte  probes  at  her  tooth  with  her  :fongue.  &quot;This  is  work  for  imbeciles,  hein?&quot;  43616e616461us  says  to  her.  &quot;No,  don't  look  up.&quot;  She  tenses  and  petrifies  with  self-control.  To  Oskar,  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;The  mouth,  Oskar-emptier.  You're  an  ordinary  person,  like  those  imbe-  ciles&quot;-he  gestures  toward  the  people  gathered  behind  a  barricade  of  saw-  horses  watching  them-&quot;and  your  emo-  tions  are  not  well  defined.  You  are  bored,  mon  cher,  but  you  do  not  admit  it  too  openly.  Your  wife  is  a  distinguished  woman-you  chose  her;  you  respect  your  own  judgment.  Do  you  under-  stand?&quot;  Oskar's  face  blankens  slightly.  &quot;Ja,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Ich  verstehe.&quot;  They  commence  the  next  shot.  Os-  kar  takes  a  step,  tugging  Liselotte  after  him;  43616e616461us  thinks,  The  ego  and  the  whore.  The  reflection  in  Oskar's  sun-  glasses  is  first  of  Liselotte's  forehead,  then  of  her  breasts,  then  the  obelisk,  the  street,  and  the  leaves.  How  much  did  Nanna  see?  Sukie  and  Robin  were  secretive  about  their" b"affair.  43616e616461us  never  discussed  his  sexual  adventures  with  Nanna.  But  Nanna  was  old,  shrewd;  surely  she  guessed.  She  clung  tightly  to  his  arm  when  they  walked  on  the  bluff.  She  said,  &quot;'You  have  become  an  interesting-looking  young  man.&quot;  She  did  not  go  to  Florid:  that  winter  until  after  Christmas,  but  stayed  in  Scantuate,  giving  as  her  reason  that  she  felt  like  enjoying  the  cold  weather;  but  43616e616461us  was  sure  it  was  to  be  near  and  help  him.  He  was  starting  college  and  might  get  into  trouble.  Nanna  asked  him  about  Sukie.  &quot;She  likes  someone  else,&quot;  43616e616461us  said  eva-  sively.  &quot;She  and  I  are  still  friends.&quot;  &quot;I'm  glad,&quot;  Nanna  said.  &quot;Gamma  Foster  hasn't  been  well.  You  never  do  your  imitations  any  more.&quot;  He  saw  Sukie  at  college  from  time  to  time.  The  people  he  knew  said  of  her  she  was  a  very  stupid  girl,  a  snob,  shallow,  affect-  ed.  One  of  43616e616461us's  cousins  (she  also  told  him  Nanna  was  cold  and  hadn't  loved  her  husband  and  children.  &quot;She  was  crazyabout  her  father  and  nursed  him,  and  you  know  that  kind  of  thing.  He  was  one  of  those  citizenship-mad  Jews,  very  anxious  to  win  awards&quot;)  mentioned  that  Sukie  had  always  had  a  reputation  in  Scantuate:  &quot;Definitely  loose.&quot;  Work  commences  on  the  shot  that  will  introduce  the  figures  of  Oskar  and  Liselotte  when  the  film  is  edited.  Mar-  cus,  Alliat,  and  the  camera  are  en-  sconced  on  the  boom.  43616e616461us  signals,  and  the  boom  rises  into  the  air.  High  above  4974616c79,  43616e616461us  and  Alliat  confer  in  whispers.  Far  up  the  street,  Oskar  and  Liselotte  begin  to  walk,  Oskar  slightly  in  advance-that  is,  Oskar  walks  and  Liselotte  is  pulled.  43616e616461us  leans  for-  ward.  Liselotte  teeters  on  the  vanity  of  her  high  heels.  The  camera  sights  down  through  the  frozen  surf  of  leaves  toward  Oskar  and  Liselotte  among  the  pedestrians,  speckled  like  the  street  with  leaf  shadows  and  bits  of  light,  adrift,  like  the  leaf  shadows,  details  of  the  day,  and  as  transitory.  When  they  come  to  a  place  where  the  shadow  is  thick  and  unbroken  beneath  the  trees,  43616e616461us  shouts,  &quot;Halt!&quot;  and  Oskar,  Liselotte,  and  the  extras  pause,  as  still  as  death,  while  the  camera  whirs.  43616e616461us  shouts,  &quot;43616e616461h!&quot;  and  Oskar  and  Liselotte  emerge  from  the  shadow.  Oskar  points  from  time  to  time,  and  Liselotte  nods;  on  the  sound  track,  Liselotte's  voice,  from  a  distance,  will  say,  &quot;Ja,  ist  schon.&quot;  When  they  pass  the  chalk  marks  of  the  shot  before,  43616e616461us  shouts,  &quot;Box!  Stop!  Halt!&quot;  and  calls  a  retake  for  safety.  On  autumn  Saturday  afternoons,  Nanna  walked  with  her  cane  in  the " b"garden.  Nanna  had  a  cyst  on  her  leg.  43616e616461us  came  down  in  the  convertible  she  bought  him.  On  the  road  between  college  and  Scantuate,  he  left  behind  the  life  he  led  at  college-the  moods,  the  self-disgust,  the  talk,  the  alcohol,  the  girls  and  women,  pursued  without  imagination  or  fervor  but  with  indigna-  tion;  they  ought  to  give  in.  &quot;Every-  thing's  fine,  as  usual,&quot;  he  told  Nanna.  That  meant  he  was  glad  to  see  her.  When  Sukic  and  Robin  were  in  Scan-  tuate  at  Gamma  Foster's,  they  always  came  to  see  Nanna.  Nanna  had  become  a  member  of  their  group,  Nanna,  who  had  never  been  demonstrative,  now  kissed  43616e616461us-not  frequently;  when  he  arrived  and  when  he  left-and  she  held  his  arm  when  they  walked  in  the  garden.  &quot;I  may  fall,&quot;  she  said.  There  is  no  old  woman  among  the  extras,  43616e616461us  realizes,  no  old  Roman  wom-  en,  only  an  old  man  in  a  straw  hat.  Oskar  tells  43616e616461us  through  White-  hart's  headset  telephone  that  Liselotte  is  terrible,  and  he  asks  if  in  the  next  shot  he  should  play  his  part  as  if  he  is  acting  according  to  a  conscious  plan.  43616e616461us  thinks  and  says,  &quot;No.  You  plan,  you  don't  plan.  It  doesn't  matter.  You  do  what  you  do  anyway.  I'll  tell  you  what  it's  like.  Excuse  me,  but  it's  like  a  dog.  The  expression  in  the  dog's  eyes  when  he  is  going  to  disobey  a  com-  mand.  Is  he  thinking?  It  is  his  body.  He  smells  the  woods.  But  plot  if  you  like.  Only  remember  to  be  innocent  at  the  same  time,  a  man  who  does  not  plot.  You  have  a  very  fine  sense  of  life.  Play  it  with  uncertainty.&quot;  43616e616461us,  even  from  the  boom,  can  see  the  tension  in  Oskar,  and  he  is  pleased.  Liselotte  crosses  her  spindly  arms  stiffly  over  her  large  breasts  and  stands  pigeon-toed  while  White-  hart  slips  a  pebble  into  her  shoe.  The  shot  will  follow  the  ones  of  Oskar  and  Liselotte  strolling  and  is  to  be  taken  from  the  boom,  from  above,  to  suggest  Oskar's  aloofness,  his  detachment  from  Liselotte  after  the  disdainful  girl  has  passed.  43616e616461us  shouts,  &quot;All  right,  let's  go!&quot;  and  Oskar  tugs  Liselotte,  who  cannot  walk  very  well  with  the  pebble  in  her  shoe.  She  watches  43616e616461us  tear-  fully,  and  when  43616e616461us  nods,  Liselotte  halts  with  stunning  suddenness,  pulls  back,  and  passes  her  hand  over  her  fore-  head  and  speaks  to  Oskar.  On  the  sound  track  her  voice  will  say,  &quot;Meine  Fiisse&quot;  -a  child  near  tears.  &quot;Gut,  Lise,  gut!  No,  don't  look  at  me!&quot;  43616e616461us  shouts.  He  thinks,  Very  good  and  crude:  an  unimaginative  woman.  Os-  kar  bends  his  head  over  Liselotte  wood-  enly,  to  hide  his  confusion  about  the  nature  of  the  man  he  is  playing,  and  to  conceal  his  wrath  with  her  amateurish- " b"ness.  In  the  inclination  of  his  head,  and  the  way  his  hand  touches  her  shoulder,  he  overacts-Oskar  wants  the  scene  done  with  and  to  be  rid  of  having  to  deal  with  Liselotte.  The  concern  he  pre-  tends  has  a  vast  adamancy,  a  coldness  of  spirit,  and  the  grace  Oskar  cannot  help  but  display  in  his  attempt  to  appear  a  gentleman.  Peremptorily  the  man  and  actor  merge;  he  raises  his  arm  and  snaps  his  fingers.  A  taxi  screeches  to  a  halt  in  front  of  Oskar  and  Liselotte;  Oskar  helps  Lisclotte  in,  and  the  taxi  roars  in  a  U  turn  while  43616e616461us  shouts  to  Alliat's  assistant,  &quot;Allez  oop!&quot;  and  the  boom  rises  and  dips  to  suggest  Oskar's  sensa-  tion  of  freedom  and  release,  as  if  he  were  flying  above  the  Viale  Trinita  dei  Monte  as  the  taxi  vanishes  with  Liselotte  in  it.  That  shot  will  be  succeeded  in  the  movie  by  the  closeup  of  Oskar  standing  at  the  railing  atop  the  Spanish  Steps,  smiling  at  43616e616461us's  joke  about  Goethe  and  the  statue.  The  smile  will  seem  to  the  audience  to  be  expectant-Oskar  is  waiting  to  see  what  reality  will  emerge  for  him  from  the  City  of  the  Absolute.  As  soon  as  the  shot  ends,  Oskar  hur-  ries  toward  43616e616461us,  who  is  standing  beside  the  boom.  Oskar  says,  &quot;That  woman!  That  whore!  She  is  stupid-  an  amateur.&quot;  His  mouth  assumes  a  bent,  paranoid  smile.  &quot;You  put  her  in  the  movie  to  make  me  a  fool.  It  is  aplot.&quot;  43616e616461us  says,  &quot;Oskar,  I  need  her.  I  need  her  for  the  movie.&quot;  ((\xe2\x80\x9cT}])\xe2\x80\x99?  7)  43616e616461us  shrugs.  &quot;For  a  touch  of  inno-  cence.  Of  soul.  She  is  a  symbol  of  your  soul,  Oskar,  meine  Liebe.&quot;  Oskar  re-  laxes  in  part.  &quot;A  symbol,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Je,  ich  verstehe.  And  I  cast  her  off.  Ja,  I  see.&quot;  43616e616461us  walks  away,  to  end  the  conversation.  Sweating  in  the  sunlight,  he  thinks,  So  she's  dead.  How  could  a  woman  so  old  know  so  little?  The  min-  now  eyes  are  stilled-how  strange.  His  heartbeat  generates  a  haze  in  his  chest.  Whitchart,  on  the  first  landing  of  the  Steps,  a  sketch  in  his  hand,  is  arranging  extras  and  instructing  them  in  their  atti-  tudes  and  actions  for  the  next  shot.  Mar-  cus  says  to  himself,  &quot;I  must  go  down.&quot;  But  he  knows  W  hitehart  finds  his  safety  in  thinking  he  is  indispensable  to  43616e616461us.  43616e616461us  tells  himself,  &quot;I  must  give  him  another  moment  to  be  important.&quot;  He  turns  and  goes  down-not  the  Spanish  Steps  but  the  steep  flight  of  steps  that  leads  to  the  Via  della  Carrozze.  43616e616461us's  heart  labors.  He  thinks  it  will  be  forty-five  minutes  before  the  sun  is  rightfor  Jehane's  ascent.  He  wants  no  shadows  when  Jehane  climbs  the  Span-  ish  Steps.  He  turns  from  the  Via  della  Carrozze  into  the  Piazza  di  Spagna," b"a  middle-aged,  heavyset  man  moving  slowly.  He  says  to  himself,  &quot;It  is  the  work;  I  take  everything  too  seriously.  The  shots  went  well;  if  they  had  gone  badly,  I  wouldn't  grieve  for  her.&quot;  Clumsily,he  bangs  open  the  door  of  the  costume  trailer  and  steps  inside.  Jehane  lies  on  a  couch;  her  costume,  a  department-store  dress,  too  short  in  the  waist,  too  narrow  in  the  shoulders,  is  bunched  across  her  hips  as  she  lies.  Jehane  sits  up,  her  pale  eyes  like  era-  sures  in  her  face,  and  immediately,  vivaciously  cries,  &quot;Mon  amour!&quot;  and  asks  him  topass  on  her  makeup,  only  to  break  off  with  surprise-he  has  notbeen  fervent  with  her  for  many  months-  when  he  presses  his  head  into  the  hollow  between  her  throat  and  shoulder,  and  murmurs,  &quot;Tu  es  belle  .  ..  tu  es  belle,  belle,  belle,&quot;  and  then  he  raiseshis  head,  ashamed.  &quot;Ton  maqguillage?&quot;  he  says,  |i  and  gravely  studies  the  face  she  holds  ||  atilt  for  his  inspection.  It  seems  to  him  the  light  whispers  and  weeps  on  her  skin,  ||  and  it  occurs  to  him  that  once,  long  ago,  }|  he  was  more  forgiving  to  Noreen  than  to  his  father,  was  always  more  indulgent  to  women  than  to  men,  to  the  woman  in  him  more  than  to  the  man.  He  does  not  care  now.  Jehane  and  he  discuss  her  |/  makeup.  She  is  well  into  her  part,  more  than  half  illusion.  43616e616461us  steps  outside.  Whitehart  is  standing  near  Alliat  by  the  flower  stall,  and  as  43616e616461us  walks  toward  him,  the  reporter  and  photographer  from  R\xc3\xa9ali-  tes,  who  are  doing  a  story  on  43616e616461us,  intercept  him.  Whitehart  signals  that  the  extras  are  not  quite  ready.  &quot;I  can  give  you  a  moment,&quot;  43616e616461us  says-e  gift.  They  ask  him  for  a  photograph,  and  while  he  poses  expressionless  in  the  sun,  the  Spanish  Steps  behind  him,  the  re-  porter,  who  is  a  thin  young  man  with  a  largenose,  smiles  deferentially,  says,  &quot;What  is  the  sensation  when  you  begin  the  movie?&quot;  43616e616461us  bursts  out,  &quot;It  brings  death  closer,&quot;  then  he  hurries  on.  &quot;When  I  was  young,  it  was  different.  /'  ai  chant\xc3\xa9.  I'd  waited  so  long  for  my  chance  to  speak.  It  was  like  when  I  had  my  first  woman-one  isn't  careful-one  feels,  and  then  suffers  when  it  goes  wrong.  The  young,you  know,  are  not  edu-  cated.  I  had  no  technique.  I  felt.  Though,  God  knows,  I  took  the  tech-  nique  of  feeling  seriously  enough.  Thinking  led  to  dishonesty.  But  I  was  wrong.  The  young  are  always  wrong.  They  are  imbeciles.  They  have  too  many  lies  to  defend.  They  must  go  blindly  or  not  go  at  all.&quot;  He  is  embarrassed  sud-  denly  and  stops,  until  he  notices  admira-  tion  in  the  young  reporter's  eyes.  He " b"goes  on,  &quot;Now  I  plot  everything.  I  am  no  longer  innocent.  I  am  corrupt  with  intentions.  Sometimes  I  am  rude  when  I  work.  I  am  rude  because  the  idea  in-  sists  on  it,  because  I  am  in  a  state  of  ambition-do  you  understand?&quot;  HEN  he  came  back  from  Europe  corrupt,  he  found  that  with  Nanna  the  corrupt  part  of  him,  which  she  did  not  know  about,  became  insig-  nificant.  But  when  she  bought  him  clothes,  arranged  an  expensive  room  for  him  at  college,  a  large  allowance,  a  car,  he  protested,  &quot;I  don't  need  those  things.  I  haven't  earned  them.&quot;  &quot;I  want  you  to  have  them,&quot;  she  said.  He  said  to  himself,  &quot;I  am  a  person  who  has  these  things.&quot;  His  car  and  the  money  he  had  to  spend  helped  make  him  popu-  lar,  except  that  he  was  not  welcome  in  certain  places  or  to  certain  girls  after  they  heard  his  name.  His  classmates  ad-  mired  him,  because  he  was  moody,  and  knowledgeable  about  vice.  He  attached  himself  to  the  dramatic  group  and  per-  suaded  them  that  the  way  to  raise  money  was  to  make  a  movie.  &quot;A  silent.  A  joke.  A  parody  of  a  movie.  People  like  to  be  swindled.&quot;  The  movie  had  as  characters  Buster  Keaton  and  Charlie  Chaplin,  Chaplin  as  a  petty  crook,  Keaton  as  a  pickpocket;  the  hero  was  a  plainclothes  detective  disguised  as  an  old-clothes  man;  the  heroine,  played  by  a  boy,  was,  according  to  the  subtitles,  a  mistress,  criminal,  killer,  and  left-wing  deviate,  and  at  the  end  was  revealed  to  be  Prin-  cess  Margaret  bored  with  palace  life.  The  college-student  audiences  laughed,  and  the  profits  from  the  movie  paid  for  a  production  of  &quot;Richard  II,&quot;  43616e616461us  as  Bolingbroke.  Nanna  came  to  aper-  formance  and  said  jealously,  &quot;Do  you  intend  to  make  acting  your  life?&quot;  Sweaty  and  covered  with  makeup,  Mar-  cus  cried,  &quot;I  don't  know!  Don't  be  a  snob,  Nanna.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;'You  still  have  some  lipstick  on.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;I've  missed  you  the  last  several  weeks.&quot;  She  touched  his  arm.  43616e616461us  lost  interest  in  being  one  of  a  troupe  of  actors.  He  met  a  fierce-  beaked  young  man  named  Rappaport,  overweeningly  stoop-shouldered,  a  clev-  er,  militant  Jew.  &quot;Weill?  Ah,&quot;  Rappaport  said  when  he  was  introduced  to  43616e616461us,  and  smiled.  &quot;Half  and  half,&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  smil-  ing  back,  sarcastically.  &quot;Half  and  half?  A  half  Jew  is  a  Jew  who's  ashamed  of  being  Jewish.&quot;  Rap-  paport  said,  &quot;Always  some  of  our  best  people  get  drawn  away  from  us-Ein-  stein,  Marx,  Freud.  Renegades.  And  what  did  they  gain?  Nothing.  Noth- " b"ing  plus  nothing.  They  weren't  treated  like  Jews?  Did  they  finally  feel  they  were  the  equals  of  the  goyim?  My  God,  tell  me,  were  they  equals  before  they  started  ornot?  Anyway,  why  talk  about  it  with  you-you're  not  a  Jew.  You're  a  half-and-half.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;My  God,  why  make  a  fuss  about  it?&quot;  &quot;They  make  a  fuss,&quot;  Rappaport  said.  &quot;Well,  to  be  honest,  we  make  a  fuss,  too.&quot;  &quot;What's  a  Jew?&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  &quot;A  Jew?  A  Jew  is  a  kind  of  man  who  believes  in  God  and  believes  that  every-  thing  is  a  matter  of  religion.  You  can't  hide  or  lie  about  it.  No  saints.  No  divine  prophets.  Just  prophets,  and  they're  not  always  right.  You  have  the  Ten  Com-  mandments.  Money  can't  bea  God.  Art  can't  bea  God.  Only  God  is  God.&quot;  43616e616461us  shrugged.  &quot;So  what?&quot;  &quot;Ah,&quot;  said  Rappaport.  &quot;So,  it's  the  truth,  that's  what.  Listen,  you  think  a  goy  can  ever  know  the  truth?  You  think  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God?  Mary  was  a  virgin?  Listen,  you  believe  that  ||  when  you're  a  child  and  you  do  some-  thing  to  your  mind.  A  Christian  could  discover  the  Oedipus  Complex?  Don't  make  me  laugh.  They  want  to  be  Jews,  Christians;  that's  the  direction:  from  Catholic  to  Protestant  to  Unitarian.  What's  a  Unitarian?  A  Jew  who  can  get  into  a  country  club.  What's  a  Com-  munist?  A  man  trying  to  act  like  a  Jew  without  getting  mixed  up  with  God.  Listen,&quot;  Rappaport  said,  &quot;a  Jew  can  suffer  and  a  Jew  can  think-you  don't  think  those  are  advantages?&quot;  He  told  43616e616461us  the  Jewish  hagiology.  43616e616461us  decided  to  take  Rappaport  to  Scantuate  to  open  Nanna's  eyes.  Rappa-  port  talked  about  the  concupiscence  of  art:  &quot;Anything  sensual  is  an  advertise-  ment  for  sex,  let's  face  it.  Take  those  bronze  things  over  there.  They  arouse  the  senses.&quot;  About  comparative  religion:  &quot;Christianity  is  a  debased  form  of  Juda-  ism;  the  early  Christians  were  unedu-  cated  people  and  added  a  lot  of  super-  stition.  That's  why  we  make  them  nervous.  There  they  stand  with  the  for-  gery  in  their  hands.&quot;  43616e616461us  explained  to  Nanna,  &quot;Rappaport  likes  to  \xc3\xa9pater  les  goyim.&quot;  At  dinner,  43616e616461us,  who  thought  that  intellectual  excitement  im-  proved  Rappaport  and  made  him  almost  beautiful,  encouraged  him  totalk  about  the  Jewish  God.  Nanna  interrupted  Rappaport.  &quot;I  am  not  a  believer.&quot;  Rap-  paport  said,  &quot;Don't  you  believe  God's  weight  rests  on  the  world?&quot;  &quot;I  strong-  ly  doubt  it.&quot;  &quot;But  think  of  God  as  the  principles  of  physics.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;Do,  Nanna.&quot;  &quot;When  I  was  a  girl,&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;it  was  considered  bad  form  to  dis-" b"cuss  religion.  Perhaps  it  has  become  quite  common  nowadays,  but  I,  for  one,  am  unaccustomed  to  it.&quot;  Rappaport  said,  &quot;Your  grandmother  doesn't  like  me.  Nobody's  as  anti-Semitic  as  some  of  these  old  Jewish  ladies.&quot;  The  next  weekend,  when  43616e616461us  was  in  Scantuate,  Nanna  asked  him,  &quot;Are  you  cross  because  I  didn't  get  on  with  your  friend?&quot;  &quot;He's  odd,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  &quot;But  you  have  to  realize  he's  free  to  think  what-  ever  he  wants-he  hasn't  anything  to  lose.&quot;  &quot;What  he  thinks  seems  to  me  to  re-  dound  generally  to  his  advantage,&quot;  Nanna  said  dryly.  &quot;'That's  the  ego-but  the  super-  &gt;  Nanna  said,  &quot;I'm  afraid  I  don't  un-  derstand.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;I'm  rather  an  old  woman  and  a  little  behind  the  times.&quot;  She  said  he  looked  unwell.  He  said  he  was  worried  about  his  ideas;  he  didn't  seem  to  know  what  was  what.  Nanna  asked  if  he  wanted  to  see  a  psychiatrist.  43616e616461us  said  no,  he  wanted  to  meet  a  philosopher.  He  said,  &quot;A  greater  Jew  was  killed  in  Modigliani  than  in  Jesus.&quot;  He  said  at  Scantuate,  at  the  dinner  table,  &quot;The  whelk  is  safe  in  its  shell,  and  then  a  sea  gull  finds  it.  Sea  gulls  are  mar-  vellous;  they  have  thick  strong  bodies  like  little  cannons,  and  strong  red  beaks.  They  pick  the  whelk  up  and  carry  it  into  the  air.  The  whelk  doesn't  understand  the  visitation,  the  superior  force  that  grips  it.  My  God,  he  thinks,  look  how  wonderful  I  am,  I'm  Olympian,  look  how  high  I've  come,  and  then  the  sea  gull  drops  him,  usually  on  concrete  or  stone  but  sometimes  on  wood,  to  crack  his  shell  so  he  can  be  eaten.&quot;  &quot;43616e616461us!&quot;  Nanna  cried.  &quot;I'm  not  describing  Nature,  Nanna.  I'm  describing  feelings  and  using  Na-  ture-&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;43616e616461us  ...&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;I'm  trying  to  learn  how  to  think.  I've  got  to  learn  how  to  think.  Where  can  I  practice  if  not  with  you?&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;43616e616461us,  please,  talk  to  a  psychiatrist.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;This  isn't  a  neurosis,  Nanna.  I'm  just  stupid.&quot;  He  didn't  want  a  psychiatrist.  What  good  was  a  psychiatrist?  Did  a  psychia-  trist  know  how  to  bea  genius?  A  psy-  chiatrist  would  not  understand  that  being  Jewish  was  a  great  truth.  What  did  a  psychiatrist  know  about  the  desire  and  jealousy  he  felt  for  truth,  or  about  learning  how  to  make  oneself  audi-  ble,  or  about  anything,  for  that  matter,  except  psychiatry?  A  psychiatrist  would  frown  on  drinking  and  whoring  and  on " b"being  restless,  and  on  moodiness,  and  never  realize  they  were  pedagogical  aids.  They  drove  the  mind  into  disloca-  tion,  into  a  broken  angle  where  it  couldn't  hang  on  to  what  it  had  believed  before  and  was  set  free  to  circumnavi-  gate  a  thought.  He  persuaded  the  dramatic  group  to  make  a  silent  movie,  &quot;Oedipus  Rex&quot;:  &quot;Changed,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;to  [REDACTED]  in  the  last  century.  With  Jews.&quot;  In  the  movie,  he  had  Oedipus  stolen  as  a  baby  and  reared  in  527573736961n  Orthodoxy.  The  cli-  mactic  scene  when  Oedipus  learns  he  is  Jocasta's  son  and  a  Jew  showed  Oedipus  standing  while  his  nose,  with  the  aidof  stop-lens  photography,  becomes  long  and  hooked.  The  subtitle  said,  &quot;Oedipus  acknowledges  the  spirit  of  God.&quot;  The  audiences  laughed.  A  rabbi  wrote  him  a  note:  &quot;Your  movie  is  very  interesting,  but  perhaps  doesn't  quite  touch  on  the  real  essence  of  being  Jewish,  which  is  largely  ajoy-  ous  matter.&quot;  Rappaport  said,  &quot;You're  a  dangerous  man.  You  get  everything  wrong.  That  kid  is  a  godless  hoodlum.  You  think  he'd  grow  up  without  showing  a  few  Jewish  traits?&quot;  &quot;He  was  attracted,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  &quot;He  married  a  Jewess.  He  was  anti-  Semitic.&quot;  &quot;You  call  those  Jewish  traits?  Your  Oedipus  is  a  snob!&quot;  Rappaport  shouted.  &quot;Rex,  yet!&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  know  about  it?  Who  made  you  a  chief  Jew?&quot;  &quot;Look  at  you,  a  Jew  come  lately,&quot;  Rappaport  jeered,  adding,  &quot;W  hen  all  is  said  and  done,  you're  nothing  butan-  other  hard-nosed  rich.&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;I  think  that  obsessions  and  theories  are  only  useful  if  they  add  passion  to  a  work  that  already  has  a  formal  structure.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;I'm  ordinary.&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;I  do  not  see  that  any-  thing  has  occurred  that  we  cannot  take  philosophically.  It  is  not  as  if  we'd  lost  all  our  money.&quot;  And  she  laughed.  Mar-  cus  said  that  he  wanted  Nanna  to  read  Camus  and  Martin  Buber  and  discuss  them  with  him.  Nanna  said  she  did  not  have  time  left  in  her  life  for  new  philoso-  phers;  she  had  done  her  reading:  &quot;I  am  not  a  lady  intellectual.  You  must  take  me  as  I  am.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;Sukie  is  such  a  nice  girl.  Why  don't  you  see  her  any  more?&quot;  She  said  43616e616461us  had  been  much  more  cheerful  when  he  was  seeing  Sukie.  She  said,  &quot;43616e616461us,  would  you  like  a  sports  car?&quot;  43616e616461us  stayed  at  college  for  the  next  few  weekends.  He  sought  out  Rappa-  port.  He  did  not  feel  humiliated  in  Rap-  paport's  presence.  &quot;I  hate  myself,&quot;" b"43616e616461us  said.  He  had  trouble  paying  at-  tention  in  class.  &quot;Mr.  Weill,&quot;  said  the  lecturer,  &quot;I  will  contribute  one  cent  for  your  thoughts.&quot;  43616e616461us  did  not  say,  &quot;I  was  just  thinking  about  how  big  the  world  is  and  about  death.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;I  was  thinking  how  stupid  I  am,&quot;  and  drew  a  laugh.  Nanna  telephoned  and  asked,  &quot;How  long  am  I  to  be  deprived  of  your  com-  pany  because  you're  so  busy  being  unhappy?&quot;  She  said  she  hadn't  been  feeling  well.  She  said  she'd  heard  from  Gamma  Foster  that  Sukie  was  coming  to  Scantuate  for  the  weekend.  &quot;May  I  ex-  pect  you  on  Friday?&quot;  she  asked.  Her  tone  was  mock-humble;  she  was  an  old  woman,  reduced  to  dangling  the  charms  of  a  young  girl  to  draw  43616e616461us  to  Scan-  tuate.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;I'm  coming  to  see  you,  not  Sukie.&quot;  For  the  first  time,  43616e616461us  saidto  her-over  the  telephone  it  was-  &quot;I  love  you,  Nanna.&quot;  But  Sukie  was  there.  It  was  April,  windy,  and  the  pulleys  on  the  flagpole  banged  and  clanged  against  the  metal  of  the  pole.  43616e616461us  and  Sukie  went  for  a  walk;  they  took  shelter  from  the  wind  on  the  porch  of  Nanna's  bathhouse.  Sukie  said,  &quot;Robin  doesn't  want  to  let  the  family  know  about  himand  me.  Gamma  isn't  well.  He's  afraid  she'll  change  her  will.  Robin's  so  weak.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;Pony,  I  think  Robin's  awful.  .  .  .&quot;  He  remembered  Sukie  in  [REDACTED],  and  he  kissed  her.  &quot;You're  very  attractive,  Pony.  I  guess  you're  not  going  through  one  of  your  Moses  periods.&quot;  He  thought  afterward,  This  is  a  mis-  take.  I  don't  like  her.  Still,  politeness  seemed  to  require  him  to  sleep  with  her  again  on  Saturday  afternoon.  On  Sunday,  he  said,  &quot;Please,  for  God's  sake,  understand-I'm  sorry.&quot;  Sukie's  face  went  gray  and  creased;  she  said,  frightened,  &quot;43616e616461us,  don't  you  want  to  see  me  any  more?&quot;  &quot;My  life  isn't  settled.  God,  Sukie,  let's  talk  about  something  else.  I'm  shaking.&quot;  On  his  way  back  to  school,  he  told  himself,  &quot;At  least,  I  was  kind.&quot;  Four  weeks  later,  Sukie  called  from  New  York  and  said,  &quot;43616e616461us,  I've  been  to  the  doctor.&quot;  &quot;''The  doctor?&quot;  &quot;I'm-I'm  .  .  .&quot;  She  said  with  a  little  laugh,  &quot;You  may  be  a  father.&quot;  43616e616461us  said  to  her,  &quot;Where  are  you  calling  from?  What's  the  number  where  you're  calling  from?  I'll  call  you  back  in  fifteen  minutes.&quot;  He  hung  up,  and  grabbed  a  coat  and  slammed  out  of  the  room.  He  couldn't  think;  he  went  to  a  bar  and  got  drunk.  He  spent  the  night  in  a  friend's  room  for  fear  Sukie  would  be  calling  him  at  his  own,  and  in  the" b"morning  he  telephoned  Robin  and  cau-  tiously  asked-his  hand  was  shaking,  he  puffed  furiously  on  a  cigarette-if  Rob-  in  had  heard  from  Sukie  lately.  Robin  said,  &quot;Oh,  did  she  ask  you  for  money?  I  told  her  I  didn't  have  any.  Hell,  she  has  money  of  her  own.  I  can't  go  to  my  parents-she's  my  cousin;  Gamma  will  raise  the  roof;  I  don't  know  what  kind  of  six-different-ways  mess  it  would  be.  Christ,  I'm  a  nervous  wreck.  Are  you  going  to  lend  her  the  money?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  I'll  have  to  borrow  it  from  Nanna,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  &quot;You  think  it's  your  kid?&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  Robin  said  testily.  &quot;What  the  hell!&quot;  43616e616461us  hung  up.  He  admitted  to  himself  that  he  had  been  afraid.  He  said  to  himself,  &quot;'Tough,  tough,tough.  .  ..  Tough  cookies,&quot;  and  went  back  to  his  room  and  showered  and  shaved.  The  phone  rang.  It  was  Nanna's  companion,  to  say,  &quot;Your  grandmother  wants  to  be  certain  you're  coming  down  this  after-  noon.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;T'll  be  d-down  about  f-five  o'clock.&quot;  His  voice  sounded  odd  to  him;  he  hadn't  stammered  for  a  long  time.  He  said  to  himself,  &quot;Keep  cool.&quot;  Nanna  couldn't  know.  Nanna  was  in  the  library.  The  lamps  were  lit.  The  minnow  eyes  would  not  meet  his.  She  said,  &quot;My  friend  Gamma  Foster  spoke  to  me.  From  [REDACTED].  It  would  seem  that  her  granddaughter  is-  is  enceinte-  by  you.&quot;  43616e616461us,  his  forehead  damp,  stood  with  one  foot  thrust  out,  as  if  casually.  Suddenly  he  put  his  hand  over  his  eyes.  &quot;Tough,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tough.&quot;  Nanna  exclaimed,  &quot;43616e616461us!&quot;  &quot;Hell,  it's  probably  not  my  kid.  You  don't  know  about  Sukie.  She's  nothing  but  a-&quot;  &quot;43616e616461us!&quot;  Nanna  said.  &quot;Don't  be  ugl},&quot;)  Then  43616e616461us  realized  that  Nanna  wanted  him  to  marry  the  girl.  &quot;Nanna!  She's-it's  t-true!&quot;  he  ex-  claimed.  Nanna's  eyes  were  averted.  His  head  went  forward  the  length  of  his  neck  to  bring  his  mouth  closer  to  Nanna  and  give  his  words  more  force.  &quot;Nan-  na,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  don't  know  her.  She's  trying  to  get  away  with-to  g-get  away  with-  She's  t-try-&quot;  He  couldn't  get  on  with  the  sentence.  &quot;I  did  not  expect  you  to  act  like  this,&quot;  Nanna  said.  She  said  the  Weills  were  not  light  people.  She  said  Gamma  Foster  knew  and  trusted  their  honor.  Her  voice  darkened  when  she  said,  &quot;Your  appe-  tites  are  not  uncontrollable.&quot;  She  said  she  and  Gamma  Foster  could  give  Mar-  cus  and  Sukie  a  small  allowance,  &quot;and " b" you  could  spend  your  summers  here  with  me.&quot;  When  she  was  silent,  43616e616461us,  very  conscious  of  his  posture,  with  no  inten-  tion  of  being  cruel  but  trying  to  bring  her  to  her  senses  so  she  could  listen  and  he  would  not  be  so  angry  and  solonely,  said,  &quot;Nanna,  this  is  crazy.  You're  being  crazy-this  is  all  crazy.&quot;  Nanna  slipped  past  his  voice.  &quot;A  gen-  teman  would  not  refuse  to  talk  to  a  girl  after  he's-  Gamma  Foster  said-  That's  not  how  I  understand  a  gentle-  man-&quot;  &quot;Like  y-you  and  my  f-father  with  N-noreen!&quot;  he  exclaimed.  (Not  &quot;'Nan-  na,  be  fair'&quot;  or,  &quot;Nanna,  you're  un-  just.&quot;)  He  was  upset  by  the  note  of  accusation  in  his  voice.  He  tried  to  be  politely  ironic,  superior,  to  show  how  good  his  manners  were,  that  he  was  a  gentleman.  &quot;One  ofus  is  d-dreaming,&quot;  he  said.  Nanna's  face  was  appalled,  rigid  with  distaste,  dismay,  and  the  desire  not  to  hear.  He  looked  at  her,  to  hold  her  eyes  while  he  reasoned  with  her.  &quot;L-lis-  ten,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Use  your  head.  Wh-why  did  Gamma  Foster  go  to  you,  anyway?  Th-they  h-have  enough  m-money  to  p-pay  for  an  a-abortion  without  your  help.  What  made  her  think  I'd  be  inter-  ested  in  marrying  Sukie?  I've  shown  no  signs  of  it  up  until  now.  They're  play-  ing  you  for  a  sucker-a  Jewish  sucker.&quot;  Nanna  said,  &quot;This  is  disgusting.&quot;  43616e616461us  blinked.  He  let  his  breath  out.  He  said,  &quot;Have  it  your  way.&quot;  He  turned  on  his  heel  and  left  the  room.  He  told  Cook  he  would  not  be  in  for  dinner,  and  drove  back  to  college.  He  satin  his  room  and  drank.  The  tele-  phone  rang  at  intervals,  but  he  ignored  it.  Around  midnight,  he  took  off  his  clothes  and  lay  down  and  cried.  Then  he  put  on  a  robe.  He  sat  by  the  window  and  thought.  The  housemaster  came  to  his  door.  &quot;'Your  father  is  very  worried,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  think  you'd  better  call  him.&quot;  43616e616461us  shaded  his  eyes  with  his  hands  to  conceal  the  reddened  lids.  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  &quot;I'll  call  him  now.  Don't  worry,  I'm  all  right.&quot;  The  housemaster  waited  while  43616e616461us  spoke  to  the  long-distance  oper-  ator  and  then  when  43616e616461us  said  to  his  father,  &quot;Hello,  it's  me,&quot;  he  left  the  room.  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;Please  let's  not  have  a  long  t-talk.  I  just  called  to  say  I've  de-  cided  to  go  into  the  Army.&quot;  His  father  said,  &quot;Oh,  43616e616461us.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;If  you  t-try  to  stop  me,  I'll  go  c-crazy-O.K.#&quot;  His  father  said,  &quot;43616e616461us,  it's  time  you  faced  the  fact  you  have  a  few  re-  sponsibilities.  Nanna  is  terribly  upset.&quot;  43616e616461us  said,  &quot;Nanna  c-can  cheer " b"herself  up-she  can  go  have  a  n-nice  long  chat  with  G-gamma  Foster.  Look,  I'm  not  in  a  m-mood  to  talk.&quot;  His  father  said,  &quot;Do  you  realize  how  much  you  owe  Nanna?&quot;  &quot;Well,  why  don't  you  p-pay  it  back  for  me,&quot;  43616e616461us  said.  He  shouted,  &quot;It's  not  my  child!  You  can  all  go  to  hell!&quot;  There  was  a  silence.  His  father  said,  &quot;I  see.  All  right,  43616e616461us.  Maybe  the  Army's  best  right  now.  Let's  leave  it  at  that.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  [REDACTED];  43616e616461us  said.  &quot;G-give  my  best  to  your  family.&quot;  At  first,  in  the  Army,  he  suffered  from  moments  of  fright,  defiance,  and  remorse.  'Then  he  began  to  forget.  Sometimes  he  felt  that  his  skull  had  become  a  darkened,  quite  silent  movie  theatre;  what  his  mind  thought  and  senses  saw  appeared  in  the  very  center  of  his  attention,  easily  decipherable,  dis-  tinct.  Nanna  sent  him  a  Christmas  card  and  a  check-no  note-and  he  mailed  the  check  back  to  her.  The  Army  put  him  in  the  Signal  Corps,  and  stationed  him  at  an  airbase  in  [REDACTED].  He  became  highly  popular  with  the  other  men  in  his  unit.  They  took  up  his  habit  of  referring  to  certain  officers,  and  to  the  Army  itself,  as  Grandmother:  &quot;Grandmother  wants  this  in  triplicate.  ...&quot;  When  the  Army  released  him,  he  migrated  to  [REDACTED].  His  sexuality  proved  valuable;  [REDACTED]  took  him  in  and  gave  him  adventures.  After  a  while,  he  turned  against  the  life  he  was  leading  andbecame  the  guardian  and  ward  of  his  work.  He  put  together  a  small  seri-  ous  movie,  and  his  career  and  reputa-  tion  began.  W  hen,  after  eleven  years,  he  saw  Nanna  and  spent  a  week  with  her  {}{.  in  [REDACTED],  he  thought,  How  Euclidean-  she  does  not  know  how  to  behave  with  me.  He  himself  was  helpless  with  irony.  He  thought,  I  can't  fend  off  death  for  her.  I  haven't  time.  That's  how  Mar-  cus  saw  the  story.  HE  says  to  the  reporter,  &quot;You  see,  when  I  was  a  young  man  I  thought  life  was-was  wet,  a  liquid  thing,  like  the  ocean.  I  didn't  know  I  didn't  mean  life  butonly  childhood.  I  thought  a  man  had  no  leverage  and  had  to  swim  all  his  life-currents,  tides;  one  floated  and  was  swept  here  and  there.  But  then  you  come  to  dry  land.  One  knows  what  one  is  doing.  One  makes  decisions.&quot;  He  breaks  off;  it  is  nearly  noon.  He  has  been  keeping  track  of  the  position  of  the  sun  and  the  quality  of  the  light.  Now  the  sun  is  striking  al-  most  directly  downward  on  the  walls  of  buildings.  The  glass  of  the  shop-  windows  ripples  with  reflections  of" b"traffic.  The  palms  rustle  like  flags  over-  head,  and  the  brilliant  Roman  light,  so  different  from  the  light  in  Scantuate,  pours  heavily  upon  walls,  glass,  birds  gliding  like  fish  in  the  air.  43616e616461us  says,  \xc2\xab&quot;Dry  land.  T'll  tell  you  something  terri-  fying  about  life-it  makes  sense.&quot;  He  has  been  keeping  track  ofthe  sunlight.  He  says,  &quot;Excuse  me.  It's  time  for  the  next  shot&quot;  as  flatly  as  if  he  has  not  been  on  a  flight  of  emotion,  and  walks  off.  He  calls  Whitehart  and  Alliat  to  him,  says,  &quot;The  sun's  right.  Let's  get  moving,  boys  and  girls.&quot;  He  is  crying.  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  Alliat  asks  in  French.  &quot;My  grandmother.  She  was  such  a  stupid  woman.  Let's  go....&quot;  Every-  one  is  dispatched  to  his  position.  43616e616461us  and  Alliat  seat  themselves  on  the  boom,  and  the  boom  rises.  &quot;Jehane  comes  from  the  Sistine  Chapel  as  from  her  mother's  womb,&quot;  43616e616461us  says.  Al-  liat  nods  and  sights  the  camera.  The  streets  open  to  43616e616461us's  eye  as  the  boom  reaches  its  greatest  height.  Halfway  down  the  Via  Condotti,  Jehane  starts  to  walk.  In  a  white  kerchief  and  sunglasses,  she  walks  in  the  Roman  sunlight.  Two  boys,  extras-unwashed,  skull-eyed,  large-mouthed-racket  on  a  motor  scooter  pasther,  shouting,  &quot;Ciao!  Bel-  la!,&quot;  then  an  obscenity.  Jehane  flinches  and  walks  on.  She  comes  to  the  curb  and  makes  her  way  out  into  the  stream  of  traffic.  She  breaks  into  a  trot,  nears  the  camera,  starts  up  the  Spanish  Steps-the  stone  waterfall.  She  climbs  past  the  ex-  tras,  who  enact  their  assigned  motions,  to  the  stretch  that  has  been  cleared  and  waits  deserted  in  the  sunlight.  She  moves  farther  from  the  street,  4974616c79,  the  cam-  era;  alone  on  the  wide  baroque  sweep  of  the  Steps,  she  climbs.  She  climbs  with  indignation,  in  solitude.  The  bystanders  grow  quiet.  They  stand  silent  and  in-  volved.  43616e616461us  sighs.  She  mounts,  and  it  is  the  human  spirit  mounting.  He  presses  his  hands  together.  A  stillness  ac-  companies  her  ascent.  Does  Jehane  en-  joy  silence  as  acclaim?  She  climbs-ah,  the  successful  aerialist-and  reaches  the  landing,  where  she  will  meet  Oskar  de-  scending."