 b"A TRAVEL  NOTE  St.  Peter's  (San  Pietro  in  5661746963616e2043697479o),  the  most  majestic  and  the  most  vast  of  all  the  basilicas  of  Christendom,  is  a  masterpiece  of  Italian  art  of  the  Renaissance  and  of  the  early  Baroque  period....  [It]  covers  about  18,100  sq.  yd.;  its  length  is  212  yd.;  the  breadth  of  the  transept  is  150  yd.;  the  dome  is  435  ft.  in  height  and  138  ft.  in  diam-  eter....  The  INTERIOR,  in  spite  of  its  harmonious  proportions,  often  disappoints  visitors  at  first  sight;  itis  only  by  studying  the  details  that  we  begin  to  realise  its  grandeur  and  its  calm  and  majestic  beauty-Hachette  guide  to  4974616c79,  page  479.  ISAPPOINTS?  Better,  &quot;ap-  palls.&quot;  The  vastness  struck  me  as  so  uniform,  so  remorseless,  asto  be  self-annihilating,  like  the  vast-  ness  of  stellar  statistics,  whose  zeros  our  tiny  minds  accept  so  lightly,  like  neck-  laces  of  nothings.  What  is  marvellous  about  a  sky-high  ceiling  when  the  walls  are  remote  as  horizons?  The  inflation  was  insufficiently  selective.  Gigantic  marble  popes  like  vertical  gray  clouds  jutted  from  niches  as  high  overhead  as  housetops;  church-size  side  chapels,  one  after  another,  slowly  rotated  into  view  around  the  colossal  piers;  living  men  walkedand  talked  together  as  if  on  the  open  street.  Reverence  was  not  in  the  air.  The  ghostly  presences  of  so  many  commemorated  ecclesiasti-  cal  princes  melted  together  into  a  face-  less,  sumptuous  ambience  that  seemed  to  invite,  urbanely,  by  way  of  devotion-if  any  was  desired-a  kind  of  secondary  pantheism.  The  most  majestic  and  most  vast  basilica  in  Christendom  so  success-  fully  aped  the  scale  of  Creation  that  it  seemed  to  me  to  deliver,  like  certain  dreadful  nat-  ural  landscapes,  a  crush,  ing  comment  on  human  insignificance.  Vanity,  vanity,  each  overween-  ing  vault  declared,  in  polished  syllables  of  por-  phyry  and  gilt.  If  I  found  space  for  any  holy  emotion  in  this  mael-  strom  of  artificial  immen-  sity,  it  was  pity  for  the  dizzy  workmen  who  had  risked  their  lives  in  its  construc-  tion.  In  recent  times  a  Stigler-Otis  eleva-  tor,  manufactured  in  4974616c79,  has  been  in-  stalled,  whereby,  for  a  hundred  and  fifty  lire,  one  may  ascend  to  the  roof.  Here,  on  an  uneven  terrain  of  tarred  pebbles,  rusty  octagonal  huts  house  those  bits  of  sunlight  and  blue  mosaic  which,  seen  from  within  the  nave,  seem  glimpses  of  the  Empyrean.  A  little  low  shack  with  a  Coca-Cola  sign  sells  souvenir  trinkets  and  sweetens  the  air  with  popu-  lar  recordings  of  &quot;Mamma  Mia&quot;  and  &quot;Ave  Maria.&quot;  By  walking  forward,  one  can  overlook  Rome  and  perceive  that  the  statues  crowning  the  facade  have  blank  backs.  By  walking  the  other  way     one  can  enter  the  great  central  dome  which,  Hachette  explains,  with  its  simple  and  majestic  lines,  forms  a  canopy  above  the  tomb  of  St.  Peter.  Seen  from  above,  from  the  balcony  rimming  the  base  of  the  cupola,  the  interior  of  theba-  silica  restates  its  message  with  a  singing  urgency.  Height  sings;  it  sings  to  us  of  annihilation.  My  legs  began  to  tremble  in  the  wrestle  against  the  angelic  urge  to  push  myself  over  the  railing.  The  very  bas-reliefs  seemed  in  danger  of  letting  go.  Dots  that  were  tourists  like  me  moved  slowly  on  the  symmetrically  patterned  acres  of  floor;  their  footsteps  caused  the  leaning  walls  of  the  dome  to  murmur  invitingly.  Yes,  this  was  death:  to  fall  through  such  a  space  to  such  a  floor,  diminish  downward  into  such  a  calm  flatness.  I  pulled  back  from  the  railing,  my  palms  moist.  Yet  a  perverse  aspiration  drove  me  higher  still.  It  is  possible,  by  means  of  narrow  stairways  artfully  threaded  between  the  inner  and  outer  shells,  to  ascend  to  the  very  apex  of  the  dome.  At  first,  a  seem-  ingly  endless  spiral  of  stone  steps,  which  in  turning  constantly  ob-  literates  itself,  so  that  in  climbing  one  seems  al-  ways  to  be  treading  in  the  same  subterra-  nean  place,  conducts  the  tourist  straight  up-  ward.  Other  souls  caught  in  this  ancient  corkscrew  exist  as  disembodied  voices  laughing  and  panting,  but  one  does  not  see  them.  I  met  only  two  persons  coming  down:  a  fat  Swiss  or  German  with  binoc-  ulars  around  his  neck,  and  a  young  nun  whose  face,  bare  of  makeup,  seemed  nude.  To  let  the  first  pass,  I  hugged  the  curving  wall;  for  the  second,  I  pressed  myself  against  the  core  of  the  spiral.  In  both  cases  I  had  a  sensation  of  their  passing  through  me.  The  vertical  spiral  suddenly  ended,  the  curve  of  the  dome  entering  the  diag-  onal.  I  walked  up  a  sharply  sloping  corri-  dor  whose  outer  wall  gradually  pressed  inward.  'The  trough  worn  in  the  floor  by  footsteps  moved  to  one  side,  and  a  claustrophobic  crouch  was  forced  upon" b" me.  'Then  this  second  episode  of  ascent  also  ended,  and  I  found  myself  at  the  foot  of  a  flight  of  stairs  statelier  than  those  of  any  palace.  Only  a  Titan  or  a  monkey  could  have  climbed  them  com-  fortably.  A  zigzag  of  wooden  steps  had  been  imposed  upon  them  for  the  use  of  human  beings.  I  climbed,  saw  sky,  felt  a  breeze,  and  emerged  into  the  loggia  that  tops  St.  Peter's  dome.  This  island  in  the  sky  already  sup-  ported  a  tame  little  population-sev-  eral  phlegmatic  guards,  one  ancient  nun,  two  pairs  of  lovers,  a  family  whose  fa-  ther  carried  a  baby  in  his  arms,  and  a  nudging,  snickering  quartet  of  Roman  youths.  All  seemed  at  home  on  this  height.  Only  I,  leaning  desperately  back  from  the  precipitous  parabola  of  metal  that  fell  away  on  all  sides,  seemed  to  feel  the  impossibility  of  our  position.  Some  birds  wheeled  far  below  my  feet.  The  view  was  like  a  map  and  postcard  mixed,  and  in  the  [REDACTED]  gardens  designs  had  been  executed  in  shrubbery  apparently  for  our  benefit;  my  retinas  received  these  sights  mechanically.  My  mind  was  too  obsessed  by  fear  to  see.  But  returning  into  the  shelter  of  the  loggia,  and  heading  back  down  the  tortuous  path  of  ascent,  I  regained  my  senses,  and  perceived  that  the  walls  en-  closing  me  were  covered  with  names,  Pencil,  pen,  lipstick,  and  knife  had  left  hardly  a  square  inch  uninscribed.  There  were  no  irreverent  graffiti,  merely  names  and  dates  solemnly  placed  wher-  ever  hands  could  reach.  Many  of  the  names  were  Italian,  many  were  Eng-  lish,  some  were  German  or  Span-  ish  or  French,  some  were  impossible  to  identify  nationally,  and  some-indeed,  many-were  unmistakably  American.  A  few,  soldiers'  names,  were  accompanied  by  a  serial  number  or  the  number  of  a  military  unit.  Not  only  were  names  fitted  into  every  interstice  between  other  names,  but  older  names,  below  these,  had  been  covered  up,  so  that  layer  upon  layer,  decade  upon  decade,  of  inscrip-  tion  was  indicated.  There  was  no  in-  dication  that  any  attempt  had  ever  been  made  to  erase  the  names.  It  came  to  me  why:  these  were  souls  in  Heaven.  The  resplendent,  crushing  nave  of  St.  Peter's  was  the  world.  At  the  base  of  the  dome,  one  died,  and  en-  tered  a  purgatory  of  strait  and  arduous  ways.  At  the  summit,  one  was,  like  Dante,  blinded.  Then  one  signed  the  firmament  and  joined  the  uncountable  hostof  the  blessed  that  the  dome  of  St.  Peter's  invisibly  poises  before  the  eyes  of  all  Rome.  It  surprised  me  that  Para-  dise,  which  I  had  pictured,  in  Sunday  school,  as  being  in  another  dimension,  could  be  a  notorious  tourist  attraction,  its" b"construction  detailed  in  guidebooks,  its  photograph  peddled  in  shops.  It  shocked  my  Protestant  conscience  that  the  meth-  od  of  salvation  should  be,  strictly,  ille-  gal-a  matter  of  defacement.  But  then,  what  does  the  Bible  tell  us  if  not  that  it  takes  a  little  daring  to  enter  Heaven?  A  little  daring,  and  a  writing  implement.  I  had  a  pen.  I  fingered  it  in  my  pocket,  and  hesitated.  I  had  reached,  during  my  rev-  elation,  the  spiral  stair.  In  a  few  minutes  I  would  be  down,  gone  from  the  dome  forever,  my  opportunity  lost.  Voices  panted  and  laughed  above  and  below  me.  Suppose  I  were  discovered?  Arrest-  ed?  Caught  in  the  middle  of  the  leap  of  faith,  is  one  eternally  embarrassed?  I  paused  amid  hordes  of  those  who  had  gone  before.  If  all  these,  why  not  I'  Taking  out  my  pen,  I  did,in  blue,  on  a  bare  patch  between  two  seraphic  swirls  of  lipstick,  dare  set  my  name. "