 b"THE  floor  is  already  finished,  and  the  mother  cow  milked,&quot;  Ram  Sarn  said,  as  I  reached  the  door-  step  of  his  quarters.  &quot;You  didn't  want  to  wait  for  me?  Did  I  do  something  naughty?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Oh,  no,  small  Sahib,&quot;  he  said.  Ram  Sarn  was  one  of  my  father's  two  office  servants  or  &quot;peons,&quot;  as  they  were  officially  called,  who  earned  a  little  money  on  the  side  by  doing  some  domes-  tic  work  for  us,  like  milking  the  cow.  He  was  my  best  friend,  and  in  the  sum-  mer  I  was  always  at  his  quarters  by  six  o'clock  in  the  morning.  The  hot  sun  of  Rawalpindi,  where  my  father  was  posted  as  a  medical  officer,  would  arrive  at  the  topof  my  mosquito  net  and  pillow  around  five-thirty.  I  would  spring  out  ofbed,  splash  some  water  on  my  face  from  the  basin  stand  on  the  veranda,  and  set  out  for  the  servants'  quarters.  When  I  arrived,  Ram  Sarn  was  often  still  mixing  hay,  cow  dung,  and  mud,  or  basting  the  floor  with  the  blessed  sub-  stance.  Once  every  inch  of  the  floor  was  covered,  we  would  make  our  way  to  a  shed  a  little  distance  away,  thebig  milk  bucket  rattling  at  Ram  Sarn's  side  and  I  swinging  my  little  milk  can  with  a  wide  top  and  a  lid,  which  Ram  Sarn  had  given  me  for  my  tenth  birthday.  Ram  Sarn  milked  the  cows  in  quick,  firm  movements  so  that  the  liquid  rushed  out  in  one  continuous  stream;  indeed,  his  magical  touch  was  renowned  throughout  Pindi,  and  it  was  common  knowledge  that  he  could  line  up  all  my  seven  brothers  and  sisters  a  yard  or  so  away  from  the  cow  and  aim  the  jets  of  milk  directly  into  our  open  mouths  without  spilling  a  drop  on  our  clothes.  After  we  had  delivered  the  milk  to  the  kitchen,  we  went  back  to  his  quarters,  where,  on  a  brick  oven  in  the  corner,  Ram  Sarn  cooked  himself  a  meal  that     took  the  place  of  both  breakfast  and  Iunch,  while  I,  drawing  up  a  low  stool-  the  only  piece  of  furniture  besides  his  wooden  bed-talked  over  with  him  the  happenings  of  the  day  before.  This  morning,  his  manner  with  me  was  distant.  &quot;The  usual  glass  of  milk  for  you  and  a  mug  of  tea  for  me?&quot;  he  asked  when,  having  shed  my  shoes  at  the  door,  I  took  my  perch  alongside  the  brick  oven.  I  nodded.  &quot;Either  Kasim  Ali  or  I  must  go,&quot;  he  said  with  a  sigh.  Kasim  Ali  was  my  father's  senior  peon.  In  discharge  of  his  duties-they  consisted  of  sitting  on  a  bench  outside  my  father's  office  and  answering  an  occasional  summons,  taking  in  messages  or  letters,  announc-  ing  visitors,  or,  at  the  most,  running  an  errand  on  a  bicycle-he  was  as  stiff  and  taciturn  as  Ram  Sarn  was  relaxed  and  graceful.  In  a  temperature  of  a  hundred,  Kasim  Ali  wore  a  long,  wool-  len  peon's  coat,  buttoned  and  buckled,  with  a  starched  turban,  while  Ram  Sarn  sported  loose-fitting  pajamas  and  shirt,  with  a  cap  that  rested  on  his  head  pre-  cariously.  In  the  summer,  if  Ram  Sarn  ever  brought  his  coat  to  the  office,  it  was  only  in  anticipation  of  some  im-  portant  out-of-district  caller,  and  he  slipped  it  on  for  no  longer  than  it  took  to  show  the  gentleman  in.  Ram  Sarn  and  Kasim  Ali  were  con-  tinuously  at  war  with  one  another.  &quot;It  just  so  happens,&quot;  my  father  once  ex-  plained  to  me,  &quot;that  one  of  them  is  a  devout  Hindu,  the  other  a  good  Muslim,  and  if  it  weren't  for  that  I'm  sure  they  would  be  the  best  of  friends.&quot;  At  the  boil  of  the  kettle,  Ram  Sarn  looked  up  and  said,  &quot;What  to  do,  small  Sahib?  Kasim  Ali  won't  leave  me  alone.  I've  tried  my  best  to  ignore  him,  as  the  big  Sahib  told  me  to,  but  last  night      was  the  end.  After  we  had  locked  up  the  office,  Kasim  Ali  asked  me  if  he  might  accompany  me  to  my  quarters.  I  thought  he  was  being  friendly,  and,  as  you  know,  I've  always  wanted  to  make  peace  withhim,  so  I  said,  'Certainly,  Kasim  Ali,  if  you  promise  to  leave  your  shoes  at  the  door.'  You  know,  small  Sahib,  these  unclean  Muslims  take  their  shoes  right  into  their  quarters,  and  some  of  them,  just  to  provoke  us  Hindus-I  tell  you,  Kasim  Ali  is  one  of  them-bal-  ance  their  plate  on  their  shoes  and  eat  their  meal  out  of  it.  At  first,  Kasim  Ali  made  as  if  not  to  understand.  'But,  Ram  Sarn,  I  have  not  been  seen  with-  out  shoes  by  a  naked  eye,&quot;  he  protested.  'What  will  one  of  those  houseboys  think,  if  he  comes  to  your  quarters  and  finds  the  senior  peon  without  his  boots  on?&quot;  'I'm  sorry,  I  said,  'in  that  case  you  can  come  with  me  to  my  door,  but  don't  blame  my  hospitality  if  I  don't  ask  you  in.'  'Ah,'  he  said,  sighing-the  devil  that  he  is-'if  those  are  your  con-  ditions,  then  I  suppose  I'll  have  to  abide  by  them.'  'Well,  then,  let's  be  off,&quot;  I  said.  Kasim  Ali  stalled.  'It  occurs  to  me,'  he  said,  'that  it  will  be  for  the  best  if  I  make  my  visit  to  you  when  it  grows  a  little  dark,  so  that  there  won't  be  any  chance  of  a  houseboy  wandering  in'  'Kasim  Ali,  you  know  I  have  to  milk  the  cows  early  in  the  morning,  and  on  summer  days  it  doesn't  get  dark  till  very  late,'  I  said.  'Well,  Ram  Sarn,  if  you  don't  want  to  make  peace,'  he  said,  'say  so  and  be  done  with  it.  Can  you  not  get  it  through  your  thick  head  that  I  am  bestowing  a  great  favor  on  you  by  offering  to  pay  you  a  visit,  and  without  shoes,  too?  What  more  do  you  want?&quot;  'All  right,  all  right,'  I  said.  'Don't  get  angry.&quot;  'And  listen,  Ram  Sarn,  he  said,  'I  want  to  bring  my  hookah  with  me.  I  do  not  consider  it  a  good  social  visit  unless  there  is  a  little  smoke  to  turn  the  wheels  of  friendship.  Now,  there  is  nothing  I  hate  more  than  smoking,&quot;  Ram  Sarn  continued,  pouring  the  hot  water  into  the  teapot.  &quot;I  think  of  all  the  bad  habits  it  is  by  far  the  most  anti-  social,  for  a  smoker  may  be  as  small  as  you  like  no  bigger  than  you,  small  Sahib-and  still  he  can  take  up  the  en-  tire  room.  No  man  has  a  right  to  occupy  that  much  space  unless  he  be  alone  and  it  be  his  own  quarters.  'No,  thank  you,'  I  said  to  Kasim  Ali,  and  started     " b"walking  away.  He  followed  me.  'In  the  name  of  Allah,  don't  be  such  a  back-  woodsman,'  he  said.  'Remember,  you're  no  longer  a  monkey  but  a  peon.  If  you  like,  I  won't  take  more  than  eleven  swallows  of  the  hookah,  and  the  smoke  will  be  out  of  the  door  before  you  can  count  to  twenty-one.&quot;  Now,  small  Sahib,  you  know  that  seven,  eleven,  and  twen-  ty-one  are  my  lucky  numbers;  I  was  born  in  a  house  numbered  seven,  and  when  I  first  took  my  employment  with  the  big  Sahib,  he  was  living  at  11  Church  Road,  and  my  birthday  falls  on  the  twenty-first  of  January.  'All  right,  Kasim  Ali,  I  said.  'If  you  will  stick  to  your  word.&quot;  I  walked  back  to  my  quar-  ters,  and,  small  Sahib,  I  don't  mind  ad-  mitting  to  you  that  I  couldn't  stop  the  trembling  in  my  limbs.I  had  some  sort  of  a  premonition  that  Kasim  Ali  was  up  to  four  hundred  and  twenty.&quot;  Four  hundred  and  twenty  was  a  code  number  of  a  British  law  under  which  496e646961n  misdemeanants  were  tried.  It  covered  so  many  varieties  of  anti-social  behavior  that,  in  the  pre-independence  496e646961  in  which  we  lived,  it  had  long  since  become  a  household  word  for  bad  play.  &quot;But  Kasim  Ali  had  taken  the  first  step,&quot;  Ram  Sarn  continued,  &quot;and  for  me  not  to  follow  suit  was  to  lower  my-  self  in  my  own  eyes.  More  than  once  last  evening,  as  I  cooked  my  meal,  I  thought  of  going  across  to  Kasim  Ali's  quarters  on  the  other  side  of  the  com-  pound  and  telling  him  the  visit  was  off.  The  sun  was  long  insetting,  and  I  must  have  stood  at  my  door  for  half  an  hour  after  finishing  my  meal  before  the  heavenly  light  dimmed.  Finally,  I  spotted  Kasim  Ali.  He  was  walk-  ing  with  jaunty  steps,  his  arms  swing-  ing  by  his  sides.  In  his  left  hand  he  held  his  hookah,  and  to  my  great  amaze-  ment  he  was  wearing  his  peon's  coat,  as  though  he  was  coming  straight  from  the  office.  I  blocked  the  doorway.  'Well?&quot;  I  said.  'Well?&quot;  Kasim  Ali  said,  as  though  he  didn't  catch  my  meaning.  'Are  you  going  to  keep  your  promise  about  the  shoes  ornot?  '  I  asked.  He  bent  over  and  undid  his  laces  with  some  difficulty  be-  cause  of  his  tight  coat  and  the  hookah,  which  he  refused  to  put  down.  I  let  him  in.  The  first  thing  he  said  as  he  entered  was,  'You  should  keep  a  chair  for  your  guests.  'Do  you  have  a  chair  in  your  quarters?&quot;  I  asked.  'I  do,'  he  replied.  'When  the  Sahib  before  our  present  one  transferred-at  that  time  you  weren't  even  in  government  service-in  appre-  ciation  of  my  loyal  service  he  presented  me  with  an  armchair.  He  went  straight  for  my  bed  and  sat  down  on  my  pillow--  my  pillow,  small  Sahib-and  brought  his  feet  up  after  him.  'Kasim  Ali,  you   are  defiling  my  bed,'  I  said,  but  he  didn't  budge.  'Kasim  Ali,  I  warn  you,'  I  re-  peated.  'What  do  you  propose  to  do  about  it?&quot;  he  said.  I  went  for  his  hookah,  and  he  let  out  a  big  belch.  His  breath  smelled  of  beef.  'Oh,  Kasim  Aliy  I  said,  'you  did  not  eat  beef  before  com-  ing  to  my  home?&quot;  'I  did,&quot;  he  replied.  'I  ate  four  plates  of  beef  curry,  and  that,  too,  with  a  lot  of  gravy.  It  was  tender  and  juicy.'  Small  Sahib,  I  could  not  breathe  the  air  in  my  own  quarters.  I  had  to  get  out  of  my  own  home.  'You  areablack  defiler!'  I  shouted  through  the  doorway.  'I  shall  report  you  to  the  big  Sahib.  &quot;  'Code  Three  Thousand  Four  Hun-  dred  and  Eighty-two  lays  down  that  all  Muslim  government  employees  shall  be  allowed  to  eat  beef  to  their  hearts'  content,  and  no  officer  may  discrimi-  nate  against  them  on  that  account.  Big  Sahib  can  do  nothing,&quot;  he  said.  I  could  have  wept.  'Kasim  Ali  I  begged.  'Light  up  your  hookah,  so  that  at  least  my  quarters  will  be  rid  of  the  breath  of  a  murderer!  'I  will  light  up  my  hookah  in  my  good  time,&quot;  he  said  calm-  ly,  and  started  breathing  out  long  breaths  through  his  mouth.  I  took  his  pair  of  shoes  and  threw  them  at  him.  I  just  missed  his  head  by  a  few  inches,  I  think.  'Get  out,'  I  shouted.  'Leave  my  home  this  minute.&quot;  He  simply  redoubled  his  puffing.  I  was  choking  with  the  bad  air,  even  outside.  I  closed  my  eyes  and  prayed  to  Mother  Cow  to  save  me,  and  when  I  opened  them  Kasim  Ali  was  cleaning  the  heels  of  his  shoes  on  my  pillow.  I  don't  mind  admitting  that  I  broke  down  and  cried,  small  Sahib.  'Have  some  pity,  I  wailed,  but  the  unclean  defiler  has  a  heart  of  stone.  He  got  off  my  bed,  and,  lacing  his  boots  and  lighting  his  hookah,  he  pranced  all  around  my  quarters,  trampling  every  inch  of  the  holy  ground  under  his  filthy  boots  and  filling  the  room  with  the  ugly  fire.  Even  between  swallows,  he  lashed  out  at  me  once  by  saying  he  had  never  seen  a  peon  cry  in  all  his  forty  years'  service  in  His  Majesty's  all-496e646961  gov-  ernment.&quot;  The  milk  had  reached  a  boil.  Ram  " b"Sarn  poured  it  out  for  me  in  a  glass,  spilling  some  on  the  ground.  &quot;I  haven't  told  you  the  worst  of  it,  small  Sahib,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;As  Kasim  Ali  was  leaving,  he  caught  hold  of  my  hoop  earring  blessed  by  a  Brahmin,  and  laid  a  thick  wad  of  spit-&quot;  Ram  Sarn  broke  off.  &quot;All  night,&quot;  he  went  on,  &quot;I  have  been  washing  and  rewashing  my  quarters  and  my  body.&quot;  HALF  an  hour  later,  at  my  sugges-  tion,  Ram  Sarn  walked  reluctant-  ly  with  me  toward  the  back  veranda  where  my  father  always  shaved  about  that  time.  &quot;Kasim  Ali  is  sure  to  deny  his  foul  deed,&quot;  Ram  Sarn  said,  &quot;and  the  big  Sahib,  in  the  absence  of  any  eyewit-  ness,  would  only  have  the  word  of  one  servant  against  the  other.  However  much  the  big  Sahib  wished  to  believe  me,  he  could  not  do  so  without  showing  favoritism  for  his  old  house  servant.&quot;  My  father  acknowledged  Ram  Sarn's  greeting  with  a  nod;  he  had  a  large  towel  wrapped  around  him  and  his  face  was  covered  with  soapsuds.  &quot;Ram  Sarn,  you've  come  in  the  nick  of  time  to  save  my  life.  I  need  some  more  hot  water.&quot;  Ram  Sarn  took  the  glass  and  went  running  to  the  kitchen.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  Kasim  Ali  did  last  night?&quot;  I  said  to  my  father.  &quot;He  fouled  him  and  his  quarters.&quot;  I  went  on  to  tell  all.  &quot;It's  just  a  silly  servants'  quarrel.  They'll  settle  it  among  themselves.&quot;  &quot;But  Ram  Sarn  says  he's  sending  in  his  resignation  today.&quot;  My  father  yawned.  &quot;In  that  case,  perhaps  I'd  better  have  a  word  with  them,&quot;  he  said.  Ram  Sarn  returned  with  the  water  and,  crouching  on  his  heels  at  my  father's  feet,  started  talking  incoherently.  My  father  sent  the  gar-  dener,  who  was  hosing  down  the  com-  pound  nearby,  to  fetch  Kasim  Ali.  He  came  back  with  a  report  that  Kasim  Ali  was  in  the  middle  of  polishing  his  boots  and  the  brass  buttons  of  his  coat;  his  tur-  ban  also  was  untied.  &quot;He  told  me  that  the  instant  the  big  Sahib's  senior  peon  is  dressed,  he  shall  wait  on  you,&quot;  the  gar-  dener  concluded  with  a  smirk.  &quot;Sahib,&quot;  Ram  Sarn  was  saying  in  a  choked  voice,  &quot;we  from  the  caste  of  Rajputs  from  the  district  of  Kangra  have  made  the  best  servants  since  immemorial  times.  Long  before  even  a  Mussulman  was  born,  we  were  ministering  to  the  needs  of  the  great  families.  I  was  counting  up  the  other  day;  I  have  been  in  Sahib's  service  nearly  twelve  years.  My  father  must  have  served  the  mistress's  father  for  thir-  ty-five  years,  and  there  wasn't  one  com-  plaint  against  him  in  all  that  time.  The  mistress's  father  treated  my  father  with  the  greatest  degree  of  kindness;  he  al-  lowed  him  a  full  month  a  year  to  visit  his  spouse  in  the  village.  When  it  was  de-  cided  to  include  a  houseboy  in  the  mis-  tress's  dowry,  I  was  accepted  by  the  mis-  tress's  father  sight  unseen.  'I  have  never  set  eyes  on  your  boy,'&quot;  he  said  to  my  father,  'but  if  he  is  your  seed,  he  is  as  good  as  the  twenty-two-carat  gold  from  the  Lady  [REDACTED]'s  Road,&quot;  and  the  ladies  of  the  house  who  were  given  a  tour  of  the  mistress's  dowry  were  no  less  enthusiastic  in  my  praise  than  that  of  the  horse  carriage,  the  sewing  machine,  and  the  clothes  and  jewelry.  And  to-  day  the  duties  I  do  for  the  house-milk-  ing  the  cows,  taking  the  small  Sahib  for  walks-are  nearer  my  heart  than  the  job  of  a  peon.  I  became  a  peon  only  be-  cause  you  said  a  portion  of  the  free  In-  dia,  including  Pindi,  would  be  taken  over  by  the  likes  of  Kasim  Ali,  and  the  Sahib's  family  and  I,  being  Hindus,  would  have  to  flee  our  homeland.  In  that  case,  government  service  would  be  an  advantage.  But,  Sahib,  I  cannot  serve  in  a  government  any  longer  which  em-  ploys  beef-eaters.&quot;  &quot;It  is  Kasim  Ali  who  should  be  dis-  charged,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Your  servant,  Kasim  Ali,  is  pres-  ent,&quot;  the  peon  boomed,  materializing  suddenly.  &quot;Does  the  big  Sahib  wish  to  see  his  senior  peon?&quot;  He  stood  threat-  eningly  over  Ram  Sarn,  with  his  shin-  ing  boots  in  striking  distance  of  the  junior  peon's  back.  My  father,  who  was  shaving  his  upper  lip,  did  not  immediately  speak.  &quot;Did  you  foul  Ram  Sarn's  quarters?&quot;  he  finally  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Kasim  Ali  said,  without  flinching.  Ram  Sarn  heaved  a  sigh  of  relief.  &quot;Kasim  Ali,  you  havebeen  long  enough  in  service,&quot;  my  father  said  with  a  little  smile,  &quot;to  know  that  an  insult  to  the  religion  of  a  colleague,  a  subordi-  nate,  or  a  superior  is  grounds  for  dis-  charge.&quot;  &quot;I  am  aware  of  that,  big  Sahib,&quot;  Kasim  Ali  said.  &quot;It  is  set  out  in  the  Paragraph  Four  of  the  Statute  Fifteen  Thousand  Three  Hundred  and-&quot;  &quot;''Then?&quot;  my  father  broke  in.  &quot;In  Paragraph  Two,  the  same  Code  Number,  Fifteen  Thousand  Three  Hundred  and  Ninety-eight,  big  Sahib,  it  is  also  stated&quot;  -Kasim  Ali  drew  him-  self  up  straight-&quot;that  under  no  cir-  cumstances  will  a  Mussulman  be  called  a  swine.  Indeed,  there  is  a  case  on  the  statute  books  of  a  Muslim  peon  who  was  called  a  swine  by  a  head  Hindu  clerk.  At  the  time,  the  said  peon  was  serving  the  clerk  Sahib  his  lunch,  and  the  said  peon  flung  the  tray  in  the  clerk  Sahib's  face,  breaking  his  spectacles  and  leaving  a  three-inch  permanent  scar  on  his  right  cheek,  next  to  the  ear.  The  peon  was  dismissed,  and  he  brought  suit  against  the  government  for  reinstatement  and  back  pay,  The  case  was  heard  by  a  British  district  magistrate,  a  learned  man  from  [REDACTED]  University,  and  the  peon  was  judged  grossly  wronged.  The  big  Sahib  will  appreciate  the  fact  that,  since  I  am  unable  to  read,  my  knowledge  of  this  case  is  second-hand,  and  the  scar  I  mentioned  might  have  been  on  the  left  cheek.  But  in  all  other  " b"essentials,  if  the  big  Sahib  is  good  enough  to  consult  the  case,  which  I  believe  is  on  page  two  hundred  and  one  of  the  codified  handbook  of  statutes,  he  will  find  that  I  am  informed  correctly.  Now,  it  came  to  my  knowledge,  big  Sahib-and  I  am  not  at  liberty  to  dis-  close  my  source,  a  fact  the  Sahib  will  condone,  since  it's  also  part  of  the  British  codified  statute  number-&quot;  &quot;Yes,  yes,&quot;  my  father  said  impa-  tiently.  &quot;-that  the  very  man  who  sits  at  your  feet,  and  no  other,  in  a  gossipy  con-  versation  with  another  of  his  like,  called  me-big  Sahib,  it  pains  me  to  utter  those  most  filthy  words,  since  toa  Mussul-  man  nothing  is  more  unclean  than  the  unclean  animal  I  speak  of-a  'son  of  a  swine.&quot;  &quot;  Ram  Sarn  shifted  uneasily  on  his  heels.  &quot;'When  this  heinous  remark  came  to  my  notice,&quot;  Kasim  Ali  said,  &quot;two  courses  were  open  to  your  senior  peon.  One,  to  give  the  houseboy  a  good  thrashing,  in  which  caseI  might  have  been  dismissed  and  later  reinstated  by  a  district  magistrate,  based  on  the  prece-  dent  of  the  aforementioned  case;  or,  to  give  him  a  dose  of  his  own  medicine,  and  thereby  confinea  quarrel  of  serv-  ants  among  servants.  I  chose  the  latter  course,  because  I  disdained  to  give  the  big  Sahib  further  trouble  when  he  has  so  much  weight  of  the  British  Empire  resting  on  his  shoulders.  Ram  Sarn,  in  coming  to  you,  has  shown  himself  un-  fit  once  again  for  His  Majesty's  all-  496e646961  government  service.&quot;  Kasim  Ali  edged  closer  to  Ram  Sarn.  &quot;Did  you  or  did  you  not,  lad,  make  me  the  progeny  of  the  unclean  animal?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Ram  Sarn  brought  out  in  a  trembling  voice.  Kasim  Ali  pushed  his  toe  under  Ram  Sarn.  &quot;Stand  up,  lad,&quot;  he  shouted.  &quot;Big  Sahib  will  respect  you  more  if  you  stand  on  your  dignity  a  little.&quot;  Ram  Sarn  sprang  to  his  feet.  My  father  laughed.  &quot;Be  off  with  you.  You  are  both  scoundrels,&quot;  he  said.  T  lunchtime  I  stopped  in  at  Ram  Sarn's  quarters.  He  usually  re-  turned  there  fora  quick  cup  of  tea.  As  he  stood  up  to  receive  me,  his  cap,  never  firm  on  his  head,  fell  to  the  ground.  He  picked  it  up  and  began  dusting  it  nerv-  ously.  &quot;Ah,  small  Sahib,  I've  never  been  so  59  richie&quot;  ~  \xc2\xa5  humiliated  in  my  life,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;How  that  devil  heard  my  remark  I  shall  nev-  er  know.&quot;  &quot;It's  not  like  you  to  call  names.  Why  did  you  do  it?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Well,  small  Sahib,  you  know  how  he  is  constantly  berating  me  about  the  state  of  my  dress.  I  have  never  taken  any  notice  of  it,  because  the  pride  of  us  Rajputs  has  always  been  service,  never  clothes.  One  day  I  came  into  the  office  and  the  clerk  Sahib  who  sits  at  the  mail  desk  told  me  that  Kasim  Ali  had  offered  him  a  rupee  out  of  his  pay  to  draw  up  after  hours  a  letter  to  the  special  department  for  Regulating  the  Conduct  and  Demeanor  of  Peons  in  the  headquarters  in  New  496e646961.  He  wanted  to  avail  himself  of  the  privilege  of  a  government  servant  to  send  his  sug-  gestions  for  revised  statutes.  Accord-  ing  to  the  clerk  Sahib,the  gist  of  the  remark  was  that  exact  specifications  of  the  peons'  livery  should  be  set  out  in  the  revised  code,  and  the  peon  with  seniori-  ty  should  be  given  the  absolute  right  of  enforcing  the  new  dress  regulations.  The  clerk  Sahib  was  quite  prepared  to  do  this,  since  it  would  be  another  decade  before  the  revised  statutes  were  issued,  " b"but  he  refused  when  Kasim  Ali  insisted  that  I  should  be  cited  in  the  letter  as  a  reason  for  the  new  regulation.  The  next  day,  in  the  bazaar,  every  wretched  hawker  and  vender  asked  me  how  my  case  was  going.  'W  hich  case?'  Ifinally  asked.  'Don't  you  know,&quot;  one  of  them  replied,  'that  Kasim  Ali  had  thepublic  stenographer  write  out  for  two     rupees  a  letter  of  complaint  to  the  headquarters?  Practically  everyone  in  the  bazaar  could  hear  his  dictation  through  the  open  door.  I  tell  you  it  was  a  letter  of  severe  reprimand,  and  even  this  moment  Kasim  Ali  is  registering  it  at  the  post  office.  If  you're  quick  on  your  bicycle,  you  can  probably  catch  him,  though  I'd  hate  to  be  the  one  to  thwart  his  will&quot;  I  arrived  at  the  post  office  out  of  breath  and  dizzy.  It  was  sucha  hot  day  that  you  couldn't  put  your  foot  down  on  the  pavement  without  burn-  ing  it.  I  was  told  by  the  post-  office  peon  that  the  letter  had  al-  ready  gone,  and  under  my  breath  I  made  that  remark.  It  came  to  my  lips  of  its  own  will  like  an  expletive;  I  know  the  post-office  peon  is  silent  as  the  tomb  and  there  wasn't  another  soul  to  overhear  me.&quot;  Out  of  the  corner  of  my  eye  Ispied  Kasim  Ali  in  the  distance.  He  was  headed  straight  for  us.  Ram  Sarn  must  have  seen  him  just  then,  too,  for  he  clapped  on  his  cap  and  said,  &quot;The  devil  take  me,  I  wonder  what  he  wants  now.&quot;  &quot;You  there,&quot;  Kasim  Ali  called,  when  he  was  in  shouting  distance.  With  one  hand  he  held  his  nose  as  though  he  were  near  a  fertilizer  plant.  The  forefinger  of  the  other  hand  was  directly  pointed  at  Ram  Sarn.  &quot;You  there,  the  poorer  half  of  a  house  servant-at  midnight  meet  me  in  the  kitchen.  We  must  have  this  thing  out.&quot;  &quot;But  you  had  it  out  with  him  last  night,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Did  he  not  report  me  this  morn-  ing?&quot;  Kasim  Ali  asked.  &quot;Hasn't  that  to  be  reckoned  with?&quot;  He  turned  his  back  and  walked  away.  HEN  everyone  was  asleep  that  night,I  slipped  out  of  my  bed  and  went  to  the  kitchen.  To  my  great  surprise,  the  mail  clerk,  a  rotund,  bald  man  with  thick,  horn-rimmed  specta-  cles,  was  there.  He  was  an  496e646961n  Christian  and  had  a  reputation  for  be-  ing  a  fair  and  sensible  man.  He  sat  in  the  middle  of  the  kitchen  and,  with  the  help  of  the  unshaded  light  overhead,  read  and  simultaneously  translated  in  halting  Hindi  &quot;An  Emergency  Book  of  Instructions  for  the  Conduct  of  Gov-  ernment  Servants.&quot;  Facing  him  were  Kasim  Ali  and  Ram  Sarn.  They  were  seated  on  either  corner  of  the  peons'  bench,  which  had  been  moved  indoors.  More  than  a  yard  of  raw  wood  sepa-  rated  the  two  servants.  The  mail  clerk  didn't  look  up  at  my  entrance.  Kasim  Ali  stiffly  motioned  me  to  stand  in  the  corner.  &quot;  'Since  1945,&quot;  the  mail  clerk  translated  ina  monotone,  &quot;  'thefriction  between  the  Hindus  and  Moslems  has  been  rising.  Riots  between  them  have  erupted  in  districts  throughout  496e646961,  and  in  many  of  them  the  strife  has  often  been  traced  to  superiors  taking  sides  or  playing  favorites  with  their  co-religion-  ists.  The  officers  are  advised  by  His  Majesty's  government,  therefore,  to  re-  frain  from  taking  any  sides  in  quarrels  the  origins  of  which,  in  whole  or  in  part,  lie  in  religious  practices.  It  is  not  the  intention  of  His  Majesty's  government  to  ask  its  servants  to  sacrifice  any  part  of  their  religion  in  the  call  of  duty,  but  simply  to  remind  the  officers  with  par-  ticular  religious  leanings  that  the  two  communities  have  lived  side  by  side,  in  harmony,  for  many  hundreds  of  years,  some  ofthat  time  at  least  under  the  civi-  lizing  aegis  of  the  British  Raj.  When-  ever  possible,  His  Majesty's  government  has  encouraged  the  two  communities  to  celebrate  each  other's  festivals,  re-  spect  religious  observances,  and  if  the  dietary  habits  of  the  two  religions  have  sometimes  proved  a  source  of  irrita-  tion  to  them,  it  has  alwaysbeen  kept  in  check  by  British  magistrates,  who  above  all  have  inculcated  in  the  peoples  of  496e646961  a  deep  and  abiding  sense  of  law.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;How  beautifully  put,  clerk  Sahib,&quot;  Kasim  Al  said  rapturously.  &quot;On  what  page  such  wisdom  be?&quot;  &quot;One  hundred  and  eighty-seven.  But  the  substance  of  the  procedure  for  set-  tling  sucha  mishap  as  befell  you  and  Ram  Sarn,&quot;  the  mail  clerk  went  on,  &quot;Js  to  be  found  two  pages  later.&quot;  &quot;A  hundred  and  eighty-nine,&quot;  Ka-  sim  Ali  said  in  the  echo  of  a  litany.  &quot;  'It  may  be,&quot;&quot;  the  mail  clerk  con-  tinued,  turning  the  page,  &quot;  'that  the  disturbances  between  the  Hindus  and  Moslems  have  reached  such  a  pitch  that  there  can  be  no  drawing  back,  in  which  case  His  Majesty's  government  will  stand  up  for  a  just  and  equitable  parti-  tion  of  the  country  between  those  of  the  Moslem  faith  who  wish  for  a  sepa-  rate  homeland  in  a  state  of  [REDACTED]  and  those  of  the  Hindu  and  other  faiths  who  wish  to  continue  the  tradition  of  a  secu-  lar  496e646961-inherited  from  us-in  the  state  of  496e646961.  Until  such  a  time  of  de-  cision,  all  loyal  native  servants,  whether  they  be  sweepers,  clerks,  directors,  or  commissioners,  will  be  well-advised  to  nip  such  religious  incidents  as  might  arise  in  the  bud  within  the  framework  of  local  custom  and  the  British  sense  of  fair  play.&quot;  &quot;  The  mail  clerk  closed  the  book.  " b"&quot;I  think,&quot;  he  began  hesitantly,  &quot;that  the  best  way  to  peace  between  the  two  of  you  lies  in,  Kasim  Ali,  your  basting  Ram  Sarn's  floor,  and,  Ram  Sarn,  your  polishingthe  boots  of-&quot;  Both  peons  set  up  a  cry.  Under  no  circumstances  would  Ram  Sarn  touch  Kasim  Ali's  boots  or  permit  him  ever  again  to  enter  his  quarters.  Under no  circumstances  would  Kasim  Ali  touch  the  filth  of  a  cow  or  leave  the  care  of  his  dress  to  such  a  son  of  an  owl  as  Ram  Sarn.  &quot;Who  calls  me  a  son  of  an  owl?&quot;  Ram  Sarn  said,  leaping  up.  &quot;I  do,&quot;  Kasim  Ali  said,  standing  up  and  thumping  his  chest.  The  mail  clerk's  eyes  lighted  on  the    butcher's  knives  which  were  lying  end  to  end  on  the  kitchen  table.  He  snatched  them  and,  putting  them  under  him,  went  on.  &quot;Sit  down.  You  are  both  sons  of  owls.&quot;  They  obeyed.  &quot;Ihave  another  solution,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Now,  it's  well  known  in  theseparts  that  there  is  no  bet-  ter  way  of  finding  out  the  truth  or  who  is  at  fault  than  by  putting  the  question  " b"to  a  discarded  juti.&quot;  The  juti  is  a  slipper-  like  shoe.  &quot;Do  you  men  agree  to  abide  by  its  answer?&quot;  Both  men,  after  some  thought,  said  they  did.  Kasim  Ali  was  sent  to  fetch  one  of  his  old  jutis,  and  Ram  Sarn  a  hammer  and  a  nail  with  a  big  head.  When  they  returned,  the  mail  clerk  put  the  juti  on  the  floor,  and  with  a  couple  of  firm  blows  hammered  the  nail  into  the  arch.  &quot;Now,  if  it  turns  out  that,  Kasim  Ali,  you  are  found  to  be  at  fault,  then  you  are  to  leave  off  tweaking  Ram  Sarn's  ears  or  needling  him  about  the  state  of  his  dress.  If  the  Sahib  doesn't  mind,  what  do  you  care?  And,  Ram  Sarn,  if  the  juti  goes  against  you,  you'll  have  to  learn  how  to  tie  a  turban  and  keep  your  peon's  coat  on  all  the  time.&quot;  Both  men  sat  sullen.  &quot;Either  you  have  faith  in  the  juti  or  you  don't,&quot;  the  mail  clerk  said,  lifting  the  juti  off  the  floor  by  the  nail  and  twirling  it  between  his  fin-  gers.  &quot;If  you're  not  at  fault,  Kasim  Ali,  then  why  are  you  worried?  The  same  goes  for  you,  Ram  Sarn.&quot;  Both  men  nodded.  Following  the  instructions  of  the  mail  clerk,  I  came  forward,  and  he  and  I,  each  placing  a  taut  forefinger  against  the  head  of  the  nail,  suspended  the  juti  between  us.  &quot;The  juti  will  give  its  answer  by  turn-  ing,  through  the  will  of  God,  full  circle  and  pointing  its  toe  at  the  culprit,&quot;  he  ex-  plained.  I  noticed  the  heat  in  the  kitchen  for  the  first  time.  Steady,  small  Sahib,&quot;  the  mail  clerk  said.  &quot;Steady,  steady,  steady,&quot;  he  in-  toned.  His  subsequent  remarks  were  addressed  directly  to  the  juti.  &quot;Juti,  you  filth  of  the  earth,  the  wash  of  the  feet,  the  skin  of  the  beast,  tell  the  truth  or  you  shall  be  beholden  to  give  answer  to  God  himself  and  ever  roast  in  the  in-  fernal  fires  of  hell,  where  things,  vege-  tables,  and  people  all  burn  in  sulphurous  fires  of  damnation  and  alienation  from  the  love  of  God,  under  whose  umbrella  alone  can  we  all  flower  and  fructify.  Do  you  hear?  Heed,  then.  Small  Sahib,&quot;  he  said,  looking  up,  &quot;keep  your  finger  taut.  The  juti  should  be  freeto  exercise  its  own  will.&quot;  My  finger  had  already  begun  to  ache  and  my  forehead  to  perspire. &quot;Ram  Sarn,  do  you  have  any  remarks  to  make  to  the  juti  before  we  ask  for  its  verdict?&quot;  the  mail  clerk  asked.  Ram  Sarn  tried  to  form  some  words  with  his  lips,  but  then  only  shook  his  head.  &quot;And  you,  Kasim  Ali?&quot;  Kasim  Ali  cleared  his  throat,  then  started  speaking.  &quot;Juti,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;should  ye  be  ignorant,  I  inform  you  that  Kasim  Ali,  the  senior  peon  to  the  health  officer  of  the  district  of  Pindi  in  His  Majesty's  all-496e646961  government,  who  is  not  a  day  older  than  fifty-one,  four  years  this  side  of  retirement  and  Provident  Fund,  for  forty  years  has  had  nothing  before  his  mind  than  to  dis-  charge  his  government  duties  to  the  best  of  his  ability.  Kasim  Ali,  like  his  father  before  him,  who  died  in  the  service  of  the  district  magistrate  at  the  age  of  sev-  enty-five,  and  who  looked  after  the  magistrate  Sahib's  five  stables  of  horses  with  unswerving  affection  and  loyalty,  has  had  only  one  object  in  life-to  be  the  most  elegantservant  in  all  of  Pun-  jab.  In  order  not  to  be  distracted  from  my  duties,  I  have  even  passed  up  mar-  riage,  though  Allah  knows  that  a  good  Mussulman  may  take  four  or  even  seven  wives  with  blessings.  The  rest,  juti,  is  in  your  hands.&quot;  The  mail  clerk  gave  Ram  Sarn  an-  other  chance  to  speak,  but  he  declined  it.  &quot;Now  then,  juti,&quot;  the  clerk  said,  &quot;in  the  name  of  Mohammed,  Allah,  and  Fatima,  Brahma,  Vishnu,  and  Shiva,  and&quot;-under  his  breath,  quickly-&quot;the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  is  Kasim  Ali  at  fault?&quot;  He  paused.  I  looked  away,  and  my  finger,  still  pressed  against  the  head  of  the  nail,  was  so  numb  that  I  was  unable  to  tell  whether  the  shoe  had  turned  or  not.  &quot;Is  it  then  Ram  Sarn?&quot;  When  I  looked  at  the  juti,  its  toe  was  pointing  directly  at  the  chin  of  Ram  Sarn.  The  mail  clerk  took  away  his  finger  and  the  juti  dropped  on  the  floor.  &quot;Now  we  know,&quot;  he  sighed  with  relief.  HE  next  day,  I  didn't  get  up  with  the  sun,  and  when  I  looked  into  the  office  Kasim  Ali  and  Ram  Sarn  were,  as  usual,  seated  on  the  peons'  bench.  Ram  Sarn  was  wearing  a  long  coat  and  a  turban.  The  uniform  was  a  size  or  two  too  large  for  him,  but  he  looked  impres-  sive."