 b"TEN  years  ago,  Arthur  Fielding's  wife  held  his  hand.  They  had  gone  for  a  walk  in  the  ragged  hills  in  back  of  their  hotel  on  St.  Croix  and  now  sat  above  the  pelicans,  overlooking  the  sea.  It  was  their  honeymoon.  &quot;Vain,  selfish,  melancholy,  and  overweight,&quot;  she  said,  exploring  his  palm.  Fielding  barely  feigned  listening.  In  my  bureau  drawer,  he  thought,  a  lizard  slumbers  in  my  underwear.  In  my  closet,  ants  march  up  and  down  my  neckties.  She  ticked  off  his  fingers.  &quot;Stubborn,  stub-  born,  stubborn,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Dreamer,  dreamer.&quot;  &quot;Um,&quot;  said  Fielding.  She  let  go  of  his  hand.  &quot;What  ever  are  you  thinking  about?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Lisbon,&quot;  he  said,  vaguely  nodding,  by  way  of  ex-  planation,  toward  what  he  believed,  mis-  takenly,  to  be  the  east.  She  didn't  follow  his  gaze.  Instead,  she  looked  at  her  hus-  band.  He  has  the  secret  smile  of  a  wife-  murderer,  she  thought.  It  was  Arthur  Fielding's  intention  that  when  he  left  his  wife  he  would  visit  Lisbon.  He  had  never  been  there  and  knew  next  to  nothing  about  it,  but  he  had  laid  out  an  imaginary  boulevard  in  his  mind,  invested  it  with  time  and  weather,  and,  as  the  years  of  his  mar-  riage  went  by,  inserted  its  components  like  a  man  building  a  boat  in-  side  a  bottle.  On  the  ge  boulevard,  it  was  summer,  approaching  evening,  and  you  could  &lt;  smell  the  nearby  sea.  The  boulevard  was  faced  with  indifferent  buildings,  formerly  resi-  dences,  which  were  oc-  cupied  by  a  commercial  bank,  a  firm  that  print-  ed  engraved  calling  cards  and  letterheads,  the  offices  of  an  obscure  shipping  company.  In  the  latter's  window,  there  was  a  dusty  model  of  an  antiquated  ocean  liner  with  four  vertical  funnels.  Alongside  the  ship,  completing  the  dis-  play,  were  two  stuffed  animals:  a  hawksbill  tur-  tle,  whose  painted  eyes  appeared  to  grieve-  for  what?-and  an  in-  flated  blowfish  with  tattered  pectoral  fins.  Fielding  knew  that  when  it  grew  darker  a  small  bulb  would  be  illuminated  within  the   ship's  hull,  and  the  portholes  and  saloon  windows  would  glow  weakly,  pre-  monishing  disaster.  'The  liner  was  be-  ing  menaced  by  the  monstrous  turtle  and  blowfish.  Had  they  already  dis-  abled  the  engine  room?  In  the  center  of  the  boulevard  were  islands  planted  with  hydrangeas.  The  flowers  were  blue,  to  match  the  antici-  pated  dusk.  Fielding  had  heard  that  gar-  deners  buried  nails  in  the  ground  when  they  planted  hydrangeas,  to  make  the  ordinarily  pink  blossoms  turn  blue.  It  was  his  indulgence  that  one  of  the  islands  was  being  prepared  for  planting,  the  gardeners  sowing  nailsin  the  spaded  earth  the  way  Cadmus  sowed  the  dragon's  teeth.  There  was  little  traffic  and  few  pe-  destrians  on  the  boulevard.  One  of  the  few  was  Fielding.  He  wore  a  white  linen  suit,  no  longer  new,  a  blue  shirt,  and  a  dark-orange  tie,  and  he  inhaled,  with  gratification  and  desire,  the  sea  and  his  after-shave  lotion.  He  stood,  marooned  in  his  leisure,  as  though  posing  for  a  sidewalk  photographer.  Indeed,  one  was  coming  his  way-a  young  Ne-  gro  with  a  religious  medal  safety-pinned  above  his  heart  and  a  pigeon  roosting  on     Sre  pegs   his  bare  head.  &quot;Look  at  the  birdie,&quot;  the  Negro  said,  with  a  provocative  smile.  As  Fielding  looked  uneasily  into  the  pigeon's  malevolent  eyes,  the  Negro  snapped  his  picture  and  pressed  a  soiled  card  into  his  palm  as  if  he  were  passing  on  plans  for  an  ingenious  new  naval  mine  or  the  address  of  a  beauty  salon  where  dirty  movies  were  shown  late  at  night.  Fielding  would  send  the  snap-  shot  to  his  children  if  it  turned  out  all  right.  Although  flawed,  Arthur  Fielding's  marriage  was,  essentially,  a  success-  if  you  take  the  view  that  marriage  often  resembles  a  tug  of  war,  in  that  the  hus-  band  and  wife  are  antagonists  supported  by  their  mutual  struggle  and  if  one  of  them  were  to  let  go  of  the  rope  the  other  would  fall.  Fielding's  wife  felt  she  had  a  right  to  ask  for  more  than  he  was  willing  to  give,  and  while  she  was  trying  to  forgive  him  he  was  wait-  ing  for  an  apology.  In  the  agony  of  their  wordless  struggle-the  ground  rules  prohibited  either  from  expressing  regret  or  tormenting  the  other  with  the  final  tyranny  of  tears-he  would  hug  her  warm  back,  clapped  against  it  in  the  dark  for  comfort  and  security,  and  out  of  terror,  as  an  imperilled  moun-  tain  climber  will  cling  at  nightfall  to  a  rock  that  still  retains  the  warmth  of  the  sun.  &quot;What  we  tell  each  other  about  ourselves  does  not  alter  who  we  are,&quot;  Fielding  would  say  finally,  and  yearn  for  an  enisling  beyond  closing  a  door  or  turn-  ing  off  a  television  set,  or  for  the  haven  he  imagined  he  had  had  as  a  child.  It  was  at  times  like  this  that  he  would  painstakingly  add  another  element  to  his  fantastic  Lisbon.  Ar-  thur  Fielding  dreamed  of  leaving  his  wife  the  way  other  husbands  wistfully  dream  of  catching  a  blue  marlin,  hitting  a  quinmiela  exacta,  or  taking  flying  les-  sons.  HE  first  time  Ar-  thur  Fielding  left  his  wife,  he  went  to  Stuyvesant  Town.  He  had  lost  his  courage  on  the  Long  Island  Expressway  and  told  the  impartial  cabdriver  to  return  to  the  city  " b"when  he  was  still  miles  from  the  airport.  He  stayed  over-  night,  full  of  apologies  and  a  sense  of  folly,  on  the  Adamses'  living-room  couch;  Adams  and  Fielding  were  architects,  who  worked  for  the  same  firm.  Fielding  slept  badly  and  awoke  screaming  &quot;Mommy!&quot;  He  had  heard  the  great,  turbulent  wail  of  an  air-raid  siren  in  his  dream.  It  was  in  fact  the  Adamses'  baby  crying.  Fielding  looked  about  him  with  fear  and  con-  fusion;  he  had  never  seen  the  Adamses'  apartment  in  the  morning.  For  a  moment,  he  thought  he  was  in  aglade;  there  was  a  dim,  greenish  cast  to  the  room.  Then  he  recog-  nized  the  Adamses'  flourishing  avocado  plants  on  the  sill,  and  next  the  Adamses,  their  disem-  bodied  faces  popping  around  the  doorjamb  like  Punch  and  Judy.  Fielding  refused  break-  fast  and  slunk  off  with  his  two-  suiter,  which  was  adorned  with  the  baggage  tags  of  many  air-  lines,  many  destinations.  His  passport,  which  he  had  osten-  tatiously  put  in  the  inside  pocket  of  his  suit  jacket  the  night  be-  fore-his  wife  watching  with  tolerant  derision-jabbed  him  in  the  ribs.  It  had  a  powerful  and  surreptitious  presence,  like  a  murder  weapon.  Fielding  got  a  cab,  gave  the  driver  his  address,  which  was  scarcely  a  mile  across  town,  and  slumped  down  in  the  seat.  He  felt  conspicuous,  furtive,  defeated.  He  recalled,  from  an  otherwise  forgotten  classroom,  an  engraving  of  Napoleon  slouched  in  a  sleigh  beneath  fur  rugs,  being  hauled  back  from  [REDACTED]  to  [REDACTED]  in  a  bad  temper.  The  implor-  ing  remnants  of  his  army  struggled  through  the  drifts  on  either  side  of  the  road.  The  artist  had  tried  to  make  Napoleon's  expression  sulky  and  re-  morseless,  but  he  had  always  looked  to  Fielding  like  a  forlorn  schnook.  I'm  a  commonplace  nut,  Fielding  thought.  He  wondered  what  the  cabdriver  was  thinking  about  him  and  sought  his  face  in  the  rearview  mirror.  The  next  time  Arthur  Fielding  left  his  wife,  he  went  to  [REDACTED]  Angeles.  When  he  had  first  visited  [REDACTED]  Angeles-it  had  been  six  or  seven  years  before-he  had  stayed  at  the  same  hotel  he  was  stopping  at  now.  He  had  arrived  then,  as  now,  at  twilight,  which  was  his  favorite  hour,  mingling,  as  it  does,  longing  and  regret,  promise  and  speculation.  'These,  Field-  ing  thought,  were  the  dominant  notes  of  his  character.  On  his  first  visit,  he  had  followed  the  bellhop,  who  wheeled  his  two-suiter  on  a  hand  truck,  along  the  winding  path  that  led  to  his  bungalow.  In  the  rear  of  the  hotel,  partially  en-  closed  by  its  wings,  there  were  a  num-  ber  of  pink  stucco  bungalows  in  a  pro-  lific  tropical  garden.  As  he  looked  about  him,  Fielding  saw  a  naked  woman  re-  garding  him  from  a  third-floor  window.  Fielding  saw  her  only  for  a  moment,  looking  back;  he  was  afraid  of  falling  too  far  behind  the  bellhop  and  losing  him  in  the  elaborate,  darkening  garden.  Then,  too,  as  they  observed  each  other,  she  slowly  pulled  the  drapes  across  the  window.  She  was  in  her  thirties,  Field-  ing  estimated-slender  and  beautiful.  Her  skin  was  unusually  rosy,  as  if  she  had  just  gotout  of  her  bath,  and  she  was  temperately  lighted  by  distant,  shaded  lamps.  Despite  her  vantage,  she  did  not  seem  remote  or  unattainable.  Was  this  the  way,  Fielding  wondered,  that  prin-  cesses  held  captive  in  towers  appeared  to  passing  princes?  The  hotel  had  apparently  changed  little  in  the  intervening  years.  The  midg-  et  bellboy  in  the  lobby  appeared  to  have  grown  smaller,  or  was  he  a  different  one?  Fielding  followed  the  bellhop  through  the  garden,  searching  for  her  window.  The  palms  had  surely  grown  taller,  and  the  window  he  finally  select-  ed  as  being  hers  was  obscured  by  their  fronds  and  unlit.  Disenchanted,  Field-  ing  undressed,  took  an  aimless  shower,  and  got  into  bed.  Beforehe  turned  out  the  light,  he  stared  at  the  ceiling,  dis-  covering  melancholy  estuaries  among  its  wales  and  cracks.  Later,  he  had  an  im-  pulse  to  call  someone  up.  He  rested  his  hand  on  the  phone  in  the  dark  as  a  king,  he  imagined,  might  place  a  ringed  hand  upon  his  orb  to  reassure  himself  of  his  divinity  and  succession.  As  he  held  the  receiver,  Fielding  heard  someone  typing  outside  his  shuttered  windows.  He  had  noticed  earlier,in  a  deep  alcove  made  by  the  walls  of  a  neighboring  bungalow,  a  sort  of  open-air  office,  so  dark,  recessed,  and  embowered  it  might  have  been  Prospero's  cell.  There  someone  he  took  to  be  a  night  watchman  or  maintenance  man  sat  behind  a  counter.  It  must  be  he  who  was  typing  so  steadily.  What  was  he  writing?  A  report?  That  wouldn't  take  him  so  long.  A  novel?  Awakening  " b"   once  in  the  middle  ofthe  night,  Fielding  heard  the  typing  continuing.  He  arose  to  the  sound  of  room-service  waiters  pushing  their  wheeled  tables,  the  china  and  cutlery  jingling  as  the  wheels  crossed  the  expansion  joints  in  the  walks.  He  haddreamt  of  a  bear  that  was  loose  in  snowy  New  York.  Hiding  in  an  old  apartment  building  on  the  upper  East  Side,  he  had  watched  covertly  from  a  window  mounted  policemen  trying  to  hem  it  in  at  acrossing.  Behind  him  he  had  been  aware  of  vague,  solid  furni-  ture,  dead  flowers  in  a  succession  of  tall,  tarnished  silver  vases,  and  thick  ash-  trays  of  amber-colored  glass  on  metal  stands.  In  one  he  had  seen  an  ancient  cigar  butt.  The  bear  suddenly  bolted,  knocking  a  horse  down.  He  had  later  watched  the  bear  being  passively  led  on  a  leash  by  a  policeman  along  Madison  Avenue.  The  dream  had  ended  con-  fusedly  with  his  two  children  dancing  for  him;  a  friend's  mother,  who  had  been  dead  a  year,  wearing  a  man's  double-breasted  suit  and  smoking  a  pipe;  his  father  shouting.  In  the  morning,  when  Fielding  opened  the  door  of  his  bungalow,  he  smelled  the  ammonic  odor  of  the  gar-  den.  What  he  smelled  was  not  the  fra-  grant  components  of  the  flowers  and  plants  but  growth,  as  in  other  gardens  one  smells  decay.  Nothing  was  allowed  to  die  here.  As  soon  as  a  leaf  began  to  yellow  or  droop,  a  flower  to  wither,  a  gardener  snipped  it  off  and  took  it  away.  Sooner  than  that;  the  gardeners  seemed  to  anticipate  death  and  worked  in  ad-  vance  of  it,  so  they  forestalled  even  age.  If  a  gardener  had  to  step  into  a  flower  bed  to  use  his  shears,  he  then  swept  it  clean  with  a  broom,  so  that  the  earth  never  held  for  long  the  imprint  of  the  birds  or  rain.  Wasn't  it  the  Eskimos,  Fielding  asked  himself,  who  put  their  old  people  out  in  the  snow,  far  from  the  igloos,  to  die?  Fielding  crossed  the  walk  to  the  out-  door  office.  Within,  barely  visible  among  the  shadows  and  vines,  was  a  man  wear-  ing  a  flashysports  coat.  He  hardly  seemed  to  be  a  watchman  or  to  belong  to  maintenance,  but  perhaps,  Fielding  thought,  when  you  went  up  in  that  hier-  archy  this  was  the  way  they  expected  you  to  dress.  But  certainly  they  wouldn't  ask  someone  in  the  top  echelon  to  sit  all  day,  not  even  considering  all  night,  in  sucha  damp,  exposed  place.  &quot;I  heard  you  typing  last  night,&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;Not  me,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;'There  was  someone  typing  last  night,&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;I'm  sure  it  came  from  here.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  see  him?&quot;  the  man  asked.  A  breeze  moved  the  vines,  and  sunlight  illuminated  his  tie  for  an  instant.  It  was  excessively  broad  and  out  of  fashion,  and  it  was  patterned  with  what  looked  like  giant,  warring  paramecia.  &quot;No,&quot;  Fielding  said.  He  now  saw  a  typewriter  on  the  counter.  &quot;Where  are  you  staying?&quot;  the  man  asked.  &quot;Bungalow  11-G,&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;Really,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;'They  don't  use  that  one  very  often.  It  must  have  been  the  fellow  comes  on  nights  you  heard.  We  forget  anyone  stays  there  from  time  to  time.  I'll  talk  to  him  if  he's  disturbing  you.&quot;  &quot;He's  not  disturbing  me,&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;Yes.&quot;  After  breakfast,  Fielding  went  to  the  pool  and  swam  raptly  back  and  forth  until  he  had  done  a  half  mile.  It  was  a  ritual  left  over  from  an  earlier  religion-  one  he  had  practiced  as  a  boy.  A  woman  who  was  wearing  many  metal  bracelets  was  in  the  pool  with  him.  Her  bracelets  tonkled  mournfully  underwater  and  made  her  sound  like  an  old  bell  cow.  As  he  swam,  Fielding  thought  he  heard     himself  being  repeatedly  paged  over  the  public-address  system,  but  when  he  lift-  ed  his  head  out  of  the  water  it  was  either  someone  else  whom  they  were  summon-  ing  or,  even  more  frequently,  no  one  at  all,  and  Fielding  pondered  the  tricks,  alarms,  and  ambiguities  of  the  sea.  He  recalled  swimming  once  in  a  clear  tropi-  cal  lagoon  and  fleeing,  panic-stricken,  at  the  approach  of  an  ascending  pro-  cession  of  white,  globular  jellyfish.  Much  later,  he  realized,  but  not  entirely  with  relief,  that  what  they  were  in  fact  was  great  bubbles  created  by  his  hands  moving  through  the  water.  When  he  had  finished  swimming,  an  old,  ponder-  ous  man  lowered  himself  into  the  shal-  low  end  of  the  pool  as  if  his  body  and  age  were  burdens  and  began  vigorously  walking  in  circles,  splashing  himself  with  cupped  hands  and  snorting.  He  told  Fielding  it  was  a  water-pressure  exercise  and  very  salutary.  Fielding  lay  back  on  a  chaise  longue  and  listened  to  the  old  man  and  the  Muzak  that  was  piped  into  the  cabafias.  He  felt  uneasy,  debilitated,  and  clumsy.  If  the  world  ends  violently,  Fielding  thought,  there  will  still  remain  the  tinny  strains  of  Mu-  zak  and  great  cones,  like  slag  heaps,  of  rusted  razor  blades  that  have  been  dropped  down  slots  in  medicine  cabinets.  That  evening,  his  second  in  [REDACTED]  An-  geles,  Fielding  made  up  his  mind  to  go  out.  He  was  restive,  and  wanted  company;  Fielding  had  learned  long  ago  that  what  he  was  truly  was  a  social  her-  mit.  But  it  rained  heavily,  the  hotel  driveway  was  jammed,  and  the  door-  man  told  him  it  would  be  hopeless  to  try  to  get  a  cab.  He  therefore  ate  alone  in  one  of  the  hotel's  majestic  dining  rooms.  He  was  the  only  solitary  diner.  A  stroll-  ing  trio  consisting  of  a  violin,  an  accordi-  on,  and  a  bass  played  Strauss  waltzes  and  tunes  from  &quot;My  Fair  Lady.&quot;  The  food  was  wheeled  to  the  tables  on  carts,  where  it  was  warmed  over  Sterno  or  theatrical-  " b"ly  flamed.  Fielding  noticed  the  sweating,  apprehensive  waiters;  the  windups  and  flourishes  of  the  captains  as  they  present-  ed  a  piece  of  sole  or  dashed  armagnac  into  a  saucepan;  asparagus  whizzing  off  plates  onto  the  carpet;  Cornish  hens  bounding  under  tables;  hissed  orders  and  reprimands;  reverently  kneeling  busboys  anxiously  cleaning  up  among  the  diners'  feet;  the  gay,  undaunted  smile  of  the  bassist  as  he  lugged  his  instrument  be-  tween  the  tables;  the  purpling  faces  of  the  captains,  who  struggled  to  maintain  an  image  of  innocence  in  the  perilous  dining  room.  It  was  a  scene  of  agitation  and  fury,  but  largely  pantomimic.  The  few  words  the  staff  spoke  were  inaudible  in  the  general  roar  of  dinner  conversa-  tion  and  the  brave  music-Fielding  was  reminded  of  the  Titanic  going  down-of  the  trio.  Fielding  realized  he  was  the  only  spectator,  the  only  auditor.  The  diners  were  too  busy  shout-  ing  at  one  another,  hitting  and  missing  with  their  utensils,  gobbling  as  though  it  were  their  last  meal;  the  staff  was  too  frantic  to  be  aware  of  anything  save  the  next  swift  and  chancy  movement.  He  felt  he  was  witness  to  something  that  wasn't  supposed  to  be  seen,  something,  in  fact,  that  no  one  ever  saw  in  its  panoramic  entirety,  like  Hell.  It  became  unbearable  to  attend;  it  was  too  charged  with  the  portents  of  calamity.  The  dining  room  appeared  to  teeter  on  the  brink  of  a  holocaust.  Why  had  Ae  been  selected  to  have  this  backstage  view  of  the  din-  ning,  haphazard  forces  of  history?  After  signing  his  check,  Fielding  ran  through  the  rain  to  his  bungalow  and  lay  in  bed  listening  to  the  soothing  and  monstrous  dripping  in  the  garden.  When  Fielding  had  graduated  from  college,  he  went  alone  on  a  treacherous  pilgrimage  to  Europe.  He  recalled  now,  listening  to  the  rain,  imagining  it  sound-  lessly  joining  the  [REDACTED],  a  room  he  had  stayed  in  at  a  second-class  hotel  in  Flor-  ence.  The  hotel  fronted  on  the  Piazza  Santa  Maria  Novella,  where  Fielding  had  once  stood,  late  at  night,  watching  a  votive  figure  crouched  over  the  trolley  tracks  in  violet  light,  repairing  them  with  an  acetylene  torch.  The  window  of  Fielding's  room  looked  out  on  a  narrow  air  shaft.  Sometimes,  when  he  awoke  there,  he  thought  it  was  raining-it  nev-  er  was-because  there  was  a  bathroom  a  half  flight  up  the  air  shaft  and  the  water  in  the  pipes  sounded  like  rain.  T'wo  but-  ton  switches  descended  from  wires  down  his  headboard.  One  was  for  the  electric  light,  the  other  summoned  the  maid,  The  first  evening  he  was  in  Flor-  ence,  Fielding  intended  to  turn  off  the  light  but  pushed  the  wrong  button--  they  were  indistinguishable-and  then  quickly  pushed  the  other  as  he  heard  a  bell  clanging  in  the  corridor  like  a  fire  alarm.  He  lay  in  panic  upon  his  broad  bed,  awaiting  the  maid.  When  she  knocked,  he  let  her  in,  grinned  foolishly  in  his  embarrassment,  gestured  and  shrugged  at  the  two  buttons.  The  maid  smiled,  said  something  he  couldn't  un-  derstand,  and  left.  The  following  night,  when  Fielding  was  ready  for  bed,  he  started  to  turn  off  the  light  but  realized  he  had  forgotten  which  was  the  proper  button.  He  looked  up  at  the  twisted  wires,  joined  in  part  by  ravelling  friction  tape,  and,  rather  than  take  the  risk  of  pushing  the  wrong  button,  went  to  sleep  with  the  light  on.  In  the  morning,  when  he  left  the  room,  it  was  still  burning.  When  he  returned  that  night,  it  had  been  turned  off.  He  undressed  in  the  dark.  From  then  on,  he  went  to  sleep  in  darkness  and  awoke  in  darkness.  He  forced  himself,  out  of  self-pity  and  devo-  tion,  to  like  his  room,  as  a  prisoner  comes  to  endure  the  meanness  of  his  cell  for  its  minor,  sour  privacy  in  a  life  " b"doomed  to  publicity.  He  returned  to  the  room  at  night  with  affection,  to  grope  for  the  sink  and  the  towel,  to  undress  and  find  the  bed  and  sleep.  It  became  his  citadel  in  an  alien  continent,  in  a  desolate  and  frightened  life.  On  the  ship  home,  Fielding  saw  a  sea  turtle  sucked  into  the  screws,  presumably  to  be  torn  to  bits.  When  he  landed,  he  became  engaged  to  the  girl  he  subsequently  married.  Fielding  often  tried  to  figure  out  why  he  had  got  married.  Fear  was  the  most  frequent  answer.  &quot;Fear  of  what?&quot;  he  then  inquired  of  himself,  and  was  unable  to  reply.  HE  third  night  that  Fielding  was  in  [REDACTED]  Angeles,  he  took  a  cab  to  a  bar  in  Santa  Monica.  He  had  been  there  before  on  another  visit  to  the  Coast;  he  had  designed  a  high-rise  apartment  building  on  Wilshire  Boulevard.  As  he  drank,  he  could  smell  the  dark  com-  forts  and  covenants  of  the  sea  through  the  screen  door.  It  was  as  though  the  screen  had  strained  out  the  terror  of  deep  places,  of  monsters  with  bad  eye-  sight  that  would  suddenly  bump  into  you  in  their  devious  cruises.  Before  closing,  Fielding  picked  up  a  girl-he  later  realized  that  they  had  picked  each  other  up  out  of  habit,  duty,  and  the  gravita-  tion  of  refugees.  He  had  laboriously  re-  lated  his  grievances  against  his  wife  and  told  the  girl  seriously  of  his  ambition  to  go  to  Lisbon  and  promenade  at  evening;  she  had  told  him  about  her  husband,  who  had  abruptly  left  her  to  surf  at  Sunset  Beach  in  Oahu.  She  took  Field-  ing  home  to  her  apartment  in  El  Segundo  in  a  decrepit  Fiat  she  called  &quot;my  junk.&quot;  Her  surfboard  was  lashed  above,  her  sleeping  bag  rolled  up  in  back.  She  was  a  rough-water  swimmer,  and  showed  him  the  gilded  trophies  on  marbled  plas-  tic  bases  she  had  won.  They  had  a  pushup  contest,  and  she  defeated  him.  He  hadgone  first,  and  then  watched  her  with  love  and  amazement,  her  plenti-  ful  dark  hair  falling  forward,  hiding  her  face,  already  as  anonymous  as  the  faces  of  the  girls  of  the  lawns  and  lofts  of  his  youth-this  strapping  creature,  her  suddenly  great,  bare  arms  pushing  herself  off  the  terrazzo  over  and  over  again,  her  breathing  regular,  powerful,  and  stimulating.  She  was  naked,  and  her  body  dazzled  with  sweat.  He  sat  in  his  blue  oxford  undershorts,  bewildered  and  as  much  in  love  with  this  marvel  as  he  had  been  with  the  enchanted  woman  who  had  once  stood  at  a  third-story  window  and,  without  a  gesture,  beck-  oned  to  him  across  the  years  and  miles.  Saddened  by  time's  rejections,  Fielding  told  the  rough-water  swimmer  of  his  all-time  personal  pushup  record-   seventy-six-that  he  had  set  on  the  tiled  floor  of  the  communal  bathroom  of  the  Pensione  Robert's  in  Capri  one  flushed  evening  when  the  island  ap-  peared  to  be  so  insubstantial  it  might  have  been  suspended  from  the  swallows  that  flew  above  it.  Although  the  accu-  mulated  debris  of  subsequent  days  and  nights  had  diminished  the  prominence  of  this  solitary  feat,  building  up  about  it  the  way  the  floor  of  a  rain  forest  im-  perceptibly  rises  with  its  accretive  load  over  the  centuries,  it  still  remained  in  Fielding's  eyes  the  column  that  memo-  rialized  his  progress.  Lightheaded  and  exultant  from  his  exertions  on  the  bath-  room  floor,  its  tiles  as  cold,  smooth,  and  shining  as  he  imagined  the  surface  of  a  glacier  to  be,  Fielding  had  felt  the  floor  of  Robert's  sliding  slowly  under  him,  carrying  him-an  exalted  burden!  -     through  the  door  he  had  locked  in  case  a  passerby  had  looked  in  and  thought  him  engaged  in  some  novel  perversion,  through  the  corridor  that  smelled  of  wet  plaster,  through  the  walls  and  out  onto  the  steep  and  shadowed  slopes  of  Capri  to  a  distant,  predicted,  but  unknowable  moraine.  But  the  flow  and  impetus,  the  feeling  that  he  was  being  borne  along  by  a  glacier  or,  even,  on  the  shoulders  of  an  acclaiming  mob,  was  only,  he  now  realized,  the  momentum  of  his  descent.  He  had  crested  that  evening  and  begun  to  go  downhill.  Fielding  awoke  in  the  girl's  bed  screaming  &quot;Mommy!&quot;  and  found  that  he  was  slapping  himself  on  his  chest  and  arms.  A  number  of  small  insects  were  rapidly  crawling  over  him.  &quot;What's  the  matter?&quot;  the  girl  asked,  awakened  by  his  desperate  movements.  &quot;Bugs,&quot;  he  said,  in  horror.  &quot;Why  don't  you  kill  them?&quot;  she  asked  murmurously.  &quot;I  can't,&quot;  he  heard  himself  saying,  with  such  clarity  and  understanding  " b"that  he  felt  he  was  about  to  cry.  &quot;They're  imaginary.&quot;  It  had  happened  the  year  before,  too,  when  he  was  working  on  a  home  in  [REDACTED],  the  last  time  he  had  gone  to  bed  with  a  stranger.  On  that  occasion,  there  had  been  only  one  insect,  large  and  rather  sluggish.  A  cockroach,  he  had  thought  then.  His  wife  had  once  told  him  that  he  could  only  make  love  to  strangers-fantasy  women,  that  was  her  phrase.  I've  got  to  see  a  neurologist,  Fielding  thought.  He  sat,  trembling,  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  trying  to  get  his  feet  into  his  shoes.  His  feet  seemed  too  big,  or  were  his  shoes  too  small?  He  saw  the  rough-water  swimmer's  broad,  hard  back,  surrounded  by  the  tumbled  sheets.  Innocent  and  exhausted,  she  had  fallen  asleep  and  was  dreaming,  Fielding  imagined,  of  the  steep  waters  toward  [REDACTED],  of  twenty-foot  waves  at  Ma-  kaha,  of  being  wiped  out  in  the  surf's  rubble.  What  of  his  wife's  dreams  and  visions?  While  he  had  been  building  his  boulevard  in  Lisbon,  had  she  been  fur-  nishinga  small  apartment  in  [REDACTED]?  Fielding  called  a  cab.  It  had  started  to  become  light,  a  bleak,  equivocal  false  dawn,  and  the  trophies-the  bent,  gold-  " b"en  swimmers  poised  eternally  for  dives  that  would  never  be  completed-gath-  ered  glints.  When  he  got  up,  hear-  ing  the  cab's  horn,  and  was  going  to  the  door,  he  turned  and  looked  back.  It  seemed  as  if  the  girl  were  float-  ing  on  the  bed  on  a  dark,  undisturbed  ocean,  being  carried  softly  by  the  pre-  vailing  northeasterlies,  those  gracious,  dependable  winds  of  the  southern,  sum-  mer  [REDACTED],  to  some  protected  land-  fall.  During  the  long  cab  ride  back  to  the  hotel,  Fielding  mused  about  an  old  Nash  he  had  once  owned-the  children  called  it  the  Gray  Ghost-that  piece  by  piece,  part  by  part,  had  deteriorated  around  him.  The  brakes  had  gone  one  spring  night  when  they  were  returning  to  the  city  from  Peekskill,  where  his  wife's  father  fed  the  pigs  on  his  ramshackle  farm  the  sweet  stalks  of  sunflowers.  This  old  man  lived  a  hundred  yards  apart  from  his  wife,  surrounded  by  cases  of  raspberry  soda;  colored  postcards  depict,  ing  Pope  Pius  XII  in  profile  and  views  of  Italian  harbors  at  sunset  were  thumb-  tacked  about  the  clouded  mirror  that  hung  above  his  bureau.  On  the  bureau  were  tinted  studio  photographs  of  his  six  daughters,  and  a  chased-silver  hairbrush  that  had  belonged  to  his  father.  It  was  a  relic;  the  old  man  hadn't  had  any  hair  to  brush  foryears.  He  had  been  separated  from  his  wife  since  the  winter  of  1935,  the  result,  apparently,  of  an  accumula-  tion  of  arguments.  Neither  he  nor  his  wife  could  recall  any  longer  what  they  had  argued  about  so  long  ago.  Instead,  they  evolved,  over  the  years,  a  great  lore  of  mythic,  rather  melodramatic  dif-  ferences  that  seemed  to  suit  their  pur-  poses  and  to  set  them  free  from  any  lingering  regrets.  In  the  safety  of  his  kitchen  the  old  man  wouldpound  on  the  oilcloth-covered  table  and  say  that  his  wife  had  been  telling  people  that  he  had  wept  when  she  suggested  he  sell  his  pigs,  which,  she  often  noted,  were  depreciating  and  stinking  up  the  property.  &quot;Grandma  getting  old,&quot;  he  would  declaim,  and  wink  soas  to  in-  clude  Fielding  in  his  cunning  and  con-  spiracy.  He  generally  had  dinner  in  her kitchen  every  evening,  however,  bear-  ing  before  him  as  he  approached,  like  a  lantern  in  the  storm,  a  bottle  of  raspberry  soda.  From  where  Grandma  waited  on  her  porch,  screened  by  her  climbing  geraniums,  she  could  see  the  soda  irradi-  ated  by  the  light  of  the  setting  sun  that  passed  through  the  bottle.  In  the  win-  ter,  the  soda  cast  its  color  on  the  snow.  It  was,  Fielding  thought,  as  though  the  old  man  had,  in  a  moment  of  ab-  sent  passion,  blown  on  his  heart  like  a  coal.  The  evening  the  brakes  failed,  Jim-  my,  Fielding's  son,  had  wanted  to  take  home  from  Peekskill  a  little  pig  he  had  named  Pinky  Puddles.  Fielding  had  told  him,  in  the  patient,  statesmanlike  voice  he  reserved  for  such  occasions,  that  it  was  against  the  law  to  keep  little  pigs-  or,  for  that  matter,  big  pigs-in  the  city,  and  Jimmy  had  cried.  A  few  miles  from  Peekskill,  Pinky  Puddles  was  forgotten  and  Jimmy  and  his  sister,  Emily,  were  singing  rounds  in  the  back  seat  of  the  car:  &quot;Heigh-ho,  nobody  at  home.  Drink  nor  meat  nor  money  have  I  none.&quot;  It  had  seemed  to  Fielding  that  the  road  to  the  city  was  downhill  all  the  way,  and  he  had  rushed  along  it  in  the  dark  feeling  both  dread  and  exhilaration,  without  slack-  ening  speed  or  shifting  gears.  The  scent  of  honeysuckle  that  entered,  almost  palpably,  the  open  windows,  and  the  sweet,  artless  voices  of  his  children,  cast  a  benevolent  spell  about  them  all,  until  the  Nash  came  to  a  miraculous,  providential  halt  in  front  of  their  building.  On  Sunday  nights  in  the  summer,  Fielding  would  drop  his  wife  and  children  off  at  their  door  and  circle  restless-  ly,  vagrantly  the  silent,  empty  blocks,  searching  for  a  park-  ing  place.  Sometimes  it  would  take  him  as  much  as  an  hour  before  he  found  one,  and  he  would  become  lulled  by  his  slow,  circular  investigation.  In  his  fatigue,  he  imagined  he  was  in  an  eccentric  orbit,  be-  ing  carried  farther  and  farther  away  in  increasingly  vast  cir-  cles,  growing  old  and  forget-  ful,  at  times  losing  his  original,  ancient  purpose,  at  others  re-  calling,  paroxysmally,  his  wife  waiting  in  front  of  the  &quot;Late  Late  Show,&quot;  the  pure  faces  of  his  children  asleep  in  the  di-  minished,  distant  apartment.  When  he  finally  found  a  space,  he'd  slump  over  the  " b"worn  wheel,  dizzy  and  de-  pleted  from  his  quest  and  the  effort  of  parking,  and  listen  to  the  small,  expiring  clicks  and  wheezes  of  the  cooling  engine-noises,  he  thought,  that  a  beetle  might  make  in  the  grass  if  you  lay  down  and  listened,  ear  up  against  shard,  to  its  meticulous  progress.  Then  the  depressing  miracle  would  occur.  He  would  hear  the  steady  ticking  of  thecar  clock.  It  was  only  on  these  occasions  that  he  was  remind-  ed  that  it  worked-one  of  the  few  bits  of  machinery  in  the  Nash  that  still  did,  ticking  away  with  some  im-  probable  time  on  its  face,  as  though  it  had  only  a  casual  connection  with  the  disinte-  grating  car.  Fielding  was  not  altogether  sure  that  the  clock  ran  all  the  time-it  couldn't,  as  he  only  became  aware  of  it  at  these  late,  mysterious  hours.  The  functioning  clock  filled  Fielding  with  anger  and  remorse;  its  perseverance  was  so  pointless,  wrong-headed.  The  Nash  was  a  hopeless  cause.  It  wasn't  fair.  It  was  a  reproach;  he  saw  in  it  what  he  had  seen  long  ago  in  the  eyes  of  animals-woodchucks  in  upland  pastures-that  he  had  intended  to  kill  but  only  wounded.  When  Fielding  returned  to  his  bun-  galow,  he  lay  rigidly  in  bed,  waiting  for  sleep,  as  though  it  was  an  irresistible  ad-  versary  with  whom  he  was  expected  to  wrestle  and  always  lost.  After  a  while,  he  heard  the  typing.  It,  like  the  clock,  must  have  been,  couldn't  have  been,  go-  ing  on  all  the  time.  The  fellow  typed  on  and  on,  furiously,  pausing  only,  it  seemed,  to  insert  a  new  page.  I  know  what  the  bastard's  typing,  Fielding  sud-  denly  realized,  inspired.  The  bastard's  typing  the  story  of  my  life.  HTHUR  FIELDING  waited  until  ex-  actly  eight  on  the  fourth  evening  he  was  in  [REDACTED]  Angeles  before  calling  his  wife.  It  would  be  11  p.m.  in  New  York  and  she  would  be  watching  John  K.  M.  McCaffery;  the  children  would  be  sleep-  ing.  Their  telephone  rang  many  times.  &quot;Hell-o.&quot;  Fielding  heard  the  sullen,  uncom-  mitted  syllables  of  one  of  his  two  chil-  dren.  For  some  reason,  he  thought,  children  develop  a  special  telephone  voice.  It  is  neutral,  and  more  awed  than  apprehensive,  as  if  they  expected  some  challenging  authority  to  be  on  the  other  end  of  the  line-their  principal  or  a  white-bearded  God  whimsically  award-  ing  gold  stars  from  his  throne.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;Art-boy,&quot;  the  child  said.  &quot;Jesus  Christ,&quot;  Fielding  said  under  his  breath.  You'll  have  to  speak  up,  old  boy,&quot;  the  child  said.  Fielding  could  never  tell  Jimmy  from  Emily  at  first.  &quot;Where  are  you  calling  from,  Art-  bo?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED]  Angeles.&quot;  &quot;Working  on  a  house?&quot;  She  hadn't  explained  his  absence.  Right?  Wrong?  What  would  he  have  done?  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Fielding  said.  Why  not,  for  now?  \xc2\xab'That's  logical,&quot;  the  child  said.  &quot;It's  a  bit  chilly  in  New  York,  with  a  slight  breeze.  Did  you  know,  Art-bo,  that  birds  go  south  in  the  autumn  and  come  north  in  the  spring?  We  learned  that  at  school  today.  I  saw  one.&quot;  &quot;One  what?&quot;  Was  it  Jimmy?  &quot;One  going  south.&quot;  &quot;Where's  Ma?&quot;  Fielding  asked.  &quot;In  the  medicine  cabinet.&quot;  It  was  Jimmy.  That  was  one  of  his  secret  phrases.  He  would  never  say  where  he  picked  them  up  or  what  they  meant.  Fielding  reflected  that  children  have  many  more  secrets  than  adults  do,  and  keep  them,  often,  forever.  No,  they  lose  them  when  they  grow  up,  not  giving  them  away  but  forgetting  them.  What  secrets  had  Fielding  mislaid?  That  one  night,  through  a  pair  of  mother-of-pearl  opera  glasses  with  which  his  mother  had  once  watched  Elsie  Ferguson  and  Alice  Brady,  he  had  spied  on  a  naked  lady  carefully  making  her  bed  across  the  street?  She  was  wearing  glasses  and  had  made,  he  recalled,  hospital  corners.  He  crouched,  trembling,  in  the  farthest,  darkest  corner  of  his  room,  as  though  cornered  by  his  guilt.  At  moments,  as  he  peered  through  the  opera  glasses,  his  eyes  watering,  her  image  becoming  un-  focussed,  it  had  appeared  as  though  the  lady  were  looking  at  hin,with  amuse-  ment  and  some  scorn.  Once,  when  she  disappeared  from  his  field  of  vision,  he  imagined  that  she  had  gone  to  the  phone  to  call  up  his  parents,  and  he  waited  in  dread  for  the  phone  to  ring,  the  foot-  falls  as  his  parents  came  down  the  corri-  dor  in  their  robes.  At  the  next  oppor-  tunity,  which  was  a  few  nights  later,  he  looked  for  her,  but  her  windows  were  dark.  The  following  morning,  he  saw  that  her  apartment  was  empty,  the  fa-  miliar  bed  gone.  The  floor  was  lighter  where  it  had  stood.  She  must  have  moved  away,  and  he  felt  cheated  and  bereft.  &quot;Jimmy,  where  the  hell  is  she?&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;Don't  get  flustered,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  &quot;In  the  Adagio,  I  told  you.&quot;  The  Adagio  was  a  neighborhood  bar  that  she  had  taken  him  to  on  one  of  their  " b"first  dates.  Although  they  went  there  often,  he  could  never  get  accustomed  to  the  name.  Affettuoso;  why  not  the  Af-  fettuoso?  At  times  when,  for  one  reason  or  another,  he  had  failed  to  make  love  to  his  wife  when  she  expected  him  to,  she  would  get  up,  dress,  and  go  down  to  the  Adagio.  It  had  preceded  him.  It  was  her  home  base.  She  felt  safe  there.  From  what?  Did  he  menace  her  with  his  in-  difference?  With  his  egoistic,  self-com-  miserating,  tiresome  search?  He  saw,  in  a  fresh  moment  of  horror,  the  blowfish,  the  allusive  threat  of  the  gay  photogra-  pher.  The  hydrangeas  had  wilted  and  looked  like  old  foam  on  a  beach;  it  had  been  a  dry,  barren  summer  in  Lisbon.  Why  was  he  so  grave  and  cautious,  bending  enough  to  believe  but  never  enough  to  be  carried  away?  She  would  return  from  the  Adagio  while  he  was  sleeping,  and  in  the  morning  they  would  look  at  each  other  accusingly  across  the  debris  of  the  breakfast  table.  The  fire  hadn't  gone  out.  It  was  banked,  banked  against  some  long,  unexpected,  and  im-  probable  winter.  &quot;What's  she  doing  there?&quot;  he  asked,  hoping  wildly  for  an  appeasing,  miracu-  lous  answer.  What?  'She's  on  the  bottle,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  &quot;Stop  horsing  around,  kid,&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;Give  'em  hell,  Art-bo,&quot;  the  boy  said.  &quot;Jesus  Christ,&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;Don't  swear  in  front  of  us  kids.&quot;  &quot;What  you  been  doing,  Jimmy?&quot;  Fielding  asked.  &quot;We  were  up  at  Grandma's.  She  told  Ma  I  should  be  baptized.&quot;  &quot;What  did  Ma  say?&quot;  &quot;She  told  Grandma  to  take  me  down-  town  and  get  me  baptized  if  it  made  her  happy.  Emily's  saving  her  allowance  to  buy  a  Bible.  I  think  we  should  all  go  to  church  every  Sunday  and  confess.&quot;  &quot;Confess?&quot;  said  Fielding.  Heigh-ho,  nobody  at  home.  He  couldn't  get  it  out  of  his  head.  Confess.  What  ever  happened  to  Pinky  Puddles?  Why  wasn't  she  at  home  when  that  was  where  she  was  supposed  to  be?  &quot;Emily  and  me  played  with  rocks,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  &quot;And  Grandpa  let  us  build  things  out  of  wood.  Let's  move  to  the  country.  It's  awful  in  New  York.  Ev-  ery  where  you  look  there's  a  big  thing  in  front  of  you.  There's  a  big  thing  this  way  and  a  big  thing  that  way.  You're  surrounded.&quot;  &quot;Where's  Emily?&quot;  Fielding  asked  wearily.  \xc2\xab'She's  sleeping.&quot;  &quot;Is  Ma  really  in  the  Adagio?&quot;  &quot;I  told  you.  I  got  the  number  in  case  there's  a  forest  fire  or  a  tidal  wave  or  something.&quot;  &quot;Oh.&quot;  &quot;I  forgot  to  take  my  pill,&quot;  Jimmy  said.  &quot;Your  pill?&quot;  &quot;My  little  lover  pill.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;Dr.  Wacky's  Little  Lover  Pills  for  Promotion  of  Love  Bug  Bites.  Do  you  want  to  hear  the  ingredients?  [REDACTED],  licorice,  gum  arabic,  flour,  artificial  color  and  flavoring,  net  weight.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Fielding  said.  &quot;I  got  to  go  back  to  sleep  now,  Art-  bo,  so  I  can  watch  more  birds  go  south  tomorrow.  Whyn't  you  come  home  and  build  a  middle-income  project,  so  you  can  look  with  me?  Ma  loaned  me  Grandma  Fielding's  pearly  binoculars.  You  can  see  everything  up  close.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  said  Fielding.  &quot;Bye,  Daddy.&quot;  Fielding  looked  in  the  phone  book,  then  dialled  a  number.  &quot;American  Airlines.  Reservations.  Miss  Endicott  speaking.  May  I  help  you?&quot;  Dark  hair?  Wearing  one  of  those  white  blouses  that  button  in  the  back.  You  can  see  the  brassigre  through  it.  &quot;...  help,&quot;  Fielding  repeated,  tone-  lessly. "