 b"ITEM:  &quot;I  remain  joined  in  holy  matri-  I  mony  to  my  unintellectual  190-pound  halfback,  and  keep  myself  busy  chaut-  feuring  my  son  Bibber  to  and  from  a  local  private  school  that  I  helped  organize.  I  seem,  at  one  time  or  another,  to  have  had  the  presidency  of  every  civic  organization  in  the  community,  and  last  year  I  ran  the  local  travel  agency  for  nine  months.  A  New  York  publisher  (knock  on  wood)  is  inter-  ested  in  my  critical  biography  of  Gustave  Flaubert,  and  last  year  I  ran  for  town  supervisor  on  the  Democratic  ticket  and  got  the  largest  Democratic  plurality  in  the  history  of  the  village.  Polly  Coulter  Mellowes  ('42)  stayed  with  us  for  a  week  on  her  way  home  from  [REDACTED]  to  Minne-  apolis  and  we  talked,  ate,  drank,  and  thought  in  French  during  her  visit.  Shades  of  Mlle.  de  Grasse!  I  still  find  time  to  band  birds  and  knit  Argyle  socks.&quot;  HIS  report,  for  her  college  alum-  nae  magazine,  might  have  sug-  gested  an  aggressive  woman,  but  she  was  not  that  at  all.  Jill  Chidchester  Madison  held  her  many  offices  through  competence,  charm,  and  intellect,  and  she  was  actually  quite  shy.  Her  light-  brown  hair,  at  the  time  of  which  I'm  writing,  was  dressed  simply  and  in  a  way  that  recalled  precisely  how  she  had  looked  in  boarding  school  twenty  years  before.  Boarding  school  may  have  shaded  her  taste  in  clothing;  that  and  the  fact  that  she  had  a  small  front  and  was  one  of  those  women  who  took  this  deprivation  as  if  it  was  something  more  than  the  loss  of  a  leg.  Con-  sidering  her  compre-  hensive  view  of  life,  it  seemed  strange  that  such  a  thing  should  have  bothered  her,  but  it  bothered  her  terribly.  She  had  pretty  legs.  Her  coloring  was  fresh  and  high.  Her  eyes  were  brown  and  set  much  too  close  together,  so  that  when  she  was  less  than  vivacious  she  had  a  mousy  look.  Her  mother,  Amelia  Faxon  Chidchester,  was  a  vigorous,  stocky  woman  with  splendid  white  hair,  a  red  face,  and  an  emphatic  accent  whose  roots  seemed  more  temperamental  than  regional.  Mrs.  Chidchester's  words  were  shaped  to  express  her  untiring  vig-  or,  her  triumph  over  pain,  her  cultural  enthusiasm,  and  her  trustin  mankind.  She  was  the  author  of  seventeen  unpub-  lished  books.  Jill's  father  died  when  she  was  six  days  old.  She  was  born  in  San  Francisco,  where  her  father  had  run  a  small  publishing  house  and  administered  a  small  estate,  Heleft  his  wife  and  daugh-  ter  with  enough  money  to  protect  them  from  any  sort  of  hardship  and  any  sort  of  financial  anxiety,  but  they  were  a  good  deal  less  rich  than  their  relatives.  Jill  appeared  to  be  precocious,  and  when  she  was  three  her  mother  took  her  to  Munich,  where  she  was  entered  in  the  Gymnasium  fiir  Kinder,  run  by  Dr.  Stock  for  the  purpose  of  observing  gifted  children.  The  competition  was  fierce,  and  her  reaction  tests  were  only  mid-  dling,  but  she  was  an  amiable  and  a  bril-  liant  girl.  When  she  was  five,  they  shifted  to  the  Scuola  Pantola  in  Flor-  ence,  a  similar  institution.  'They  moved  from  there  to  [REDACTED],  to  the  famous  Tower  Hill  School,  in  Kent.  Then  as     Amelia,  or  Melee,  as  she  was  called,  de-  cided  that  the  girl  should  put  down  some  roots,  and  so  she  rented  a  house  in  Nantucket,  where  Jill  was  entered  in  the  public  school.  I  don't  know  why  it  is  that  expatri-  ate  children  should  seem  underfed,  but  they  often  do,  and  Jill,  with  her  mixed  clothing,  her  mixed  languages,  her  bare  legs  and  sandals,  gave  the  impression  that  the  advantages  of  her  education  had  worked  out  in  her  as  a  kind  of  pathos.  She  was  the  sort  of  child  who  skipped  a  lot.  She  skipped  to  school.  She  skipped  home.  She  was  shy.  She  was  not  very  practical,  and  her  mother  encouraged  her  in  this.  &quot;You  shall  not  wash  the  dishes,  my  dear,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;A  girl  of  your  intelligence  is  not  expected  to  waste  her  time  washing  dishes.&quot;  They  had  a  devoted  servant-all  of  Melee's  servants  worshipped  the  ground  she  walked  on-  and  Jill's  only  idea  about  housework  was  that  it  was  work  she  was  not  expected  to  do.  She  did,  when  she  was  about  ten,  learn  to  knit  Argyle  socks  and  was  allowed  this  recreation.  She  was  ro-  mantic.  Entered  in  her  copybook  was  the  following:  &quot;Mrs.  Amelia  Faxon  Chid-  chester  requests  the  hon-  or  of  your  company  at  the  wedding  of  her  daughter  Jill  to  Vis-  count  Ludley-Hun-  tington,  Earl  of  Ash-  mead,  in  Westminster  Abbey.  White  tie.  Dec-  orations.&quot;  The  house  in  Nantucket  was  pleasant,  and  Jill  learned  to  sail.  It  was  in  Nantucket  that  her  mother  spoke  to  her  once  about  that  subject  for  which  we  have  no  vocabulary  in  English-about  love.  It  was  late  afternoon.  A  fire  was  burning  and  there  were  flowers  on  a  table.  Jill  was  reading  and  her  mother  was  writing.  She  stopped  writing  and  said,  over  her  shoulder,  &quot;I  think  I  should  tell  you,  my  dear,  that  during  the  war  I  was  in  charge  of  a  canteen  at  the  Em-  barcadero,  and  I  gave  myself  to  many  lonely  soldiers.&quot;  The  remark  was  crushing.  It  seemed  to  the  girl  emotionally  and  intellectually  incom-  prehensible.  She  wanted  " b"tocry.  She  could  not  imagine  her  moth-  er  g  iving  herself,  as  she  put  it,  to  a  string  of  lonely  soldiers.  Her  mother's  manner  firmly  and  authoritatively  declared  h  er  indifference  to  this  side  of  things.  There  seeme  d  to  be  no  way  of  getting  around  what  had  been  said.  It  stuck  up  in  the  girl's  c  onsciousness  like  a  fallen  meteor.  Perhaps  it  was  all  a  lie,  but  her  mother  had  never  lied.  T  hen,  for  once,  she  faced  up  to  the  limitations  of  her  only  parent.  Her  mother  was  not  a  liar,  but  she  was  a  fraud.  Her  accent  was  a  fr  aud,  her  tas  tes  were  fraud  ulen  t,  and  the  seraphic  look  she  assumed  when  she  listened  to  music  was  the  look  of  someone  trying  to  recall  an  old  telephone  number.  With  h  er  indomitable  good  cheer,  her  c  ontinual  aches  and  pains,  her  impla-  c  able  snobbism,  her  cultural  squatter's  right  s,  her  lofty  friends,  and  her  force-  ful  and  meaning  less  utterances,  she  scemed,  for  a  moment  ,  to  illus  tra  te  a  suprem  e  lack  of  discernment  in  n  a-  ture.  But  was  Jill  mean  t  to  fabricate,  singlehanded,  some  cord  of  love  and  wisdom  between  this  stranger  who  had  given  her  life  and  life  itself  as  she  could  see  it,  spread  out  i  n  terms  of  fields  an  d  woods,  wondro  u  s  and  fair,  beyond  the  windows?  Could  she  n  ot  instead-  But  she  felt  too  youn  g,  too  thin,  too  undefended  to  make  a  life  without  a  p  arent,  an  d  so  she  decided  that  her  mother  had  not  said  what  she  said,  and  sealed  the  denial  with  a  li  ght  kis  s.  Jill  went  away  to  boarding  school  when  she  wa  s  twelve,  and  to  ok  all  the  prizes.  Her  scholastic,  social,  an  d  ath-  l  etic  record  was  unprecedented.  Dur-  ing  her  second  year  in  college,  she  visited  her  relatives  in  San  Francisco,  and  met  and  fell  in  love  with  Georgie  Madison.  He  was  not,  considering  her  intelli-  gence,  the  sort  of  man  she  would  have  been  expected  to  choose,  but  it  may  have  been  sensible  of  her  to  pick  a  man  whos  e  interests  were  so  different.  He  was  a  quiet,  large-boned  man  with  black  hair  and  those  gentle  looks  that  break  the  hearts  of  the  fatherless  of  all  ages;  and  she  was,  after  all,  fatherless.  He  worked  as  a  junior  executive  in  a  San  Francisco  shipyard.  H  e  had  graduated  from  Yale,  but  when  Mel  ee  once  a  sked  hi  m  if  he  liked  Thackeray,  he  said  sin-  cerely  and  politely  tha  t  he  had  ne  ver  tasted  any.  This  s  immered  down  to  a  family  joke.  They  g  ot  engaged  in  h  er  junior  year,  and  were  married  a  week  after  she  graduated  from  college,  where  she  again  took  all  the  prizes.  He  was  transferred  to  a  [REDACTED]  shipyard,  and  they  moved  to  New  York,  where  she  got  a  public-relations  job  in  a  depart-  ment  store.  In  the  second  or  third  year  of  their  marriage,  she  had  a  so  n,  whom  they  called  Bibber.  The  birth  was  difficult,  and  she  w  ould  not  be  able  to  have  more  chil  dre  n.  When  the  boy  was  still  young,  t  hey  moved  to  Gordenville.  She  was  happi  er  in  the  country  than  she  ha  d  been  in  town,  s  ince  the  country  seemed  to  present  more  opportunities  for  her  tal-  e  nts.  The  presidencies  of  the  ci  vic  or-  ganizations  followed  one  after  the  oth-  er,  and  when  t  he  widow  w  ho  ran  the  local  travel  agency  got  sick,  Jil  l  took  over  and  ran  this  successfully.  Ther  only  p  roblem  in  the  count  ry  was  to  find  someone  to  stay  with  Bibber.  A  str  ea  m  of  unsatisfactory  old  women  dr  ifted  through  the  house,  augmente  d  by  high-  school  girls  and  cleaning  women.  Georgie  loved  his  son  intemperately.  The  boy  was  bright  en  ough,  but  his  fa-  ther  found  this  brightness  blinding.  He  walked  with  the  boy  ,  played  with  him,  gave  him  his  bath  at  bedtime,  and  told  him  his  story  .  Georgie  did  everything  for  his  s  on  when  he  was  at  home,  and  this  was  ju  st  as  well,  since  Jill  often  cam  e  in  l  ater  than  he.  When  Jill  put  down  the  reins  of  the  travel  a  gency,  she  decided  to  organize  a  European  tour.  She  had  not  been  abroad  since  their  marriage,  and  if  she  wrote  her  own  ticket  she  could  make  the  trip  at  a  profit.  This,  at  least,  was  what  she  claimed.  Georgie's  shipyard  was  doing  well,  and  there  wa  s  no  real  reason  for  her  to  angle  for  a  free  trip,  but  he  could  see  th  at  the  idea  of  con  ducting  a  tour  stimulated  and  challenged  her,  and  i  n  the  end  he  gave  her  his  approval  and  his  encouragement.  Twenty-eight  cus-  tomers  signed  up,  a  nd  early  in  July  Georgie  saw  Jill  and  her  lambs,  a  s  she  called  them,  take  off  in  a  jet  for  Copen-  hagen.  Th  eir  itine  rar  y  was  to  take  them  a  s  far  south  as  Naples,  where  J  ill  would  put  her  dependents  aboard  a  home-  bound  plane.  Then  Georgie  would  meet  her  in  4974616c79,  where  they  would  spend  a  we  ek.  Jill  sent  her  husband  postcards  each  day,  and  sever  al  of  her  cus  tomers  were  so  enthusiastic  about  her  leadership  that  they  wrote  Ge  orgie  themselves  to  tell  him  what  a  charming,  competent,  and  knowledgeable  wife  he  po  ssessed.  His  neighbors  were  friendly,  and  he  mostly  dined  with  them.  Bibb  er,  who  was  not  quite  four,  had  been  put  into  a  summer  camp.  Befor  e  Georgie  left  for  Europe,  he  drove  to  New  Hampshire  to  check  o  n  Bibber.  He  had  missed  the  little  boy  painfully  and  had  seen  him  much  often-  er  in  his  r  everie  s  th  an  he  had  seen  his  wife's  vivacious  face.  To  put  hims  elf  to  sleep,  he  imagined  some  implausible  climbing  tour  through  the  Dolomites  with  Bibber  when  the  boy  was  older.  Night  after  night,  he  helped  his  son  up  from  ledge  to  ledge.  Overhead,  the  thin  " b"snow  on  the  peaks  sparkled  in  the  sum-  mer  sunlight.  Carrying  packs  and  ropes,  they  came  down  into  Cortina  a  little  after  dark.  The  bare  facts  of  his  trip  north  contrasted  sharply  with  this  Al-  pine  reverie.  The  drive  took  him  most  of  a  day.  He  spent  a  restless  night  in  a  motel  and  scouted  out  the  camp  in  the  morning.  The  weather  was  mixed,  and  he  was  in  the  mountains.  'There  were  showers  and  then  pale  clearings-an  atmosphere  not  so  much  of  gloom  as  of  bleakness.  Most  of  the  farms  that  he  passed  were  abandoned.  As  he  approached  the  camp,  he  felt  that  it  and  the  surrounding  coun-  tryside  had  the  authority  of  a  remote  creation;  or  perhaps  this  was  a  reprise  of  his  own  experience  of  summers  and  camps  as  interludes  unconnected  with  the  rest  of  time.  Then,  from  a  rise  of  ground,  he  saw  the  place  below  him.  There  was  a  small  lake-a  pond,  real-  ly:  one  of  those  round  ponds  whose  tea-colored  waters  and  pine  groves  leave  with  you  an  impression  of  geological  fatigue.  His  own  recollections  of  camp  were  sunny  and  brilliant,  and  this  rueful  water  hole,  with  its  huddle  of  rotting  matchboard  shanties,  collided  violently  with  his  robust  memories.  He  guessed--  he  insisted  to  himself-that  things  would  look  very  different  when  the  sun  shone.  Arrows  pointed  the  way  to  the  administration  building,  where  the  di-  rectress  was  waiting  for  him.  She  was  a  blue-eyed  young  woman  whose  efficien-  cy  had  not  quite  eclipsed  her  good  looks.  &quot;We've  had  a  bit  of  trouble  with  your  son,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He's  not  gotten  along  terribly  well.  It's  quite  unusual.  We  seldom  if  ever  have  cases  of  homesick-  ness.  The  exception  is  whenwe  take  children  from  divided  families,  and  we  try  never  to  do  this.  We  can  cope  with  normal  problems,  but  we  cannot  cope  with  a  child  who  brings  more  than  his  share  of  misery  with  him.  As  a  rule,  we  turn  down  applications  from  children  of  divorce.&quot;  &quot;But  Mrs.  Madison  and  I  are  not  di-  vorced,&quot;  Georgie  said.  &quot;Oh,  Ididn't  know.  You  are  sepa-  rated?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Georgie  said,  &quot;we  are  not.  Mrs.  Madison  is  travelling  in  Europe,  but  I  am  going  to  join  her  tomorrow.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  see.  Well,  in  that  case,  I  don't  understand  why  Bibber  has  been  so  slow  to  adjust.  But  here  is  Bibber  to  tell  us  all  about  it  himself!&quot;  The  boy  threw  off  the  hand  of  the  woman  with  himand  ran  to  his  father.  He  was  crying.  &quot;'There,  there,&quot;  said  the  directress.  &quot;Daddy  hasn't  come  all  this  way  to  see  a  weeper,  has  he,  Bibber?&quot;  Georgie  felt  his  heart  heave  in  love  and  confusion.  He  kissed  the  tears  from  the  boy's  face  and  held  him  against  his  chest.  &quot;Perhaps  you'd  like  to  take  a  little  walk  with  Bibber,&quot;  the  directress  sug-  gested.  &quot;Perhaps  Bibber  would  like  to  show  you  the  sights.&quot;  Georgie,  with  the  boy  clinging  to  his  hand,  had  to  face  certain  responsibilities  that  transcended  the  love  he  felt  for  his  son.  His  instinct  was  to  take  the  boy  away.  His  responsibility  was  to  hearten  and  encourage  him  to  shoulder  the  bur-  dens  of  life.  &quot;What  is  your  favorite  place,  Bibber?&quot;  he  asked  enthusiastical-  ly,  keenly  aware  of  the  fatuity  in  his  tone,  and  convinced  of  the  necessity  for  it.  &quot;I  want  you  to  show  me  your  favor-  ite  place  in  the  whole  camp.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  have  any  favorite  place,&quot;  Bibber  said.  He  was  trying  successfully  to  keep  from  crying.  &quot;'That's  the  mess  hall,&quot;  he  said,  pointing  to  a  long,  ugly  shed.  Fresh  pieces  of  yellow  lumber  had  replaced  those  that  had  rotted.  &quot;Is  that  where  you  have  your  plays?&quot;  Georgie  asked.  &quot;We  don't  have  any  plays,&quot;  Bibber  said.  &quot;The  lady  in  charge  of  plays  got  sick  and  she  had  to  go  home.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  where  you  sing?&quot;  &quot;Please  take  me  home,  Daddy,&quot;  Bibber  said.  &quot;But  I  can't,  Bibber.  Mummy's  in  Europe,  andI'm  flying  over  tomorrow  afternoon  to  join  her.&quot;  &quot;When  can  I  go  home?&quot;  &quot;Not  until  camp  closes.&quot;  Georgie  felt  some  of  the  weight  of  this  sentence  him-  self.  He  heard  the  boy's  breathing  quicken  with  pain.  Somewhere  a  bugle  sounded.  Georgie,  struggling  to  mix  his  responsibilities  with  his  instincts,  knelt  and  took  the  boy  in  his  arms.  &quot;You  see,  I  can't  very  well  cable  Mummy  and  tell  her  I'm  not  coming.  She's  expecting  me  there.  And  anyhow,  we  don't  really  have  a  home  when  Mummy  isn't  with  us.  I  have  my  dinners  out,  and  I'm  away  all  day.  There  won  't  be  anyone  there  to  take  care  of  you.&quot;  &quot;I've  participated  in  everything,&quot;  the  boy  said  hopefully.  It  was  his  last  appeal  for  clemency,  and  when  he  saw  it  fail  he  said,  &quot;I  have  to  go  now.  It's  my  third  period.&quot;  He  went  up  a  worn  path  under  the  pines.  Georgie  returned  to  the  administra-  tion  building  reflecting  on  the  fact  that  he  had  loved  camp,  that  he  had  been  one  of  the  most  popular  boys  in  camp,  and  that  he  had  never  wanted  to  go  home.  &quot;I  thmk  things  are  bound  to  im-  prove,&quot;  the  directress  said.  &quot;As  soon  as  he  gets  over  the  hump,  he'll  enjoy  himself  much  more  than  the  others.  I  would  suggest,  however,  that  you  don't  stay  too  long.  He  has  a  riding  peri-  od  now.  Why  don't  you  watch  him  " b"ride,  and  leave  before  the  period's  ended?  He  takes  pride  in  his  riding,  and  in  that  way  you'll  avoid  a  painful  farewell.  This  evening  we're  going  to  have  a  big  campfire  and  a  good  long  sing.  I'm  sure  that  he's  suffering  from  nothing  that  won't  be  cured  by  a  good  sing  with  his  mates  around  a  roaring  fire.&quot;  It  all  sounded  plausi-  ble  to  Georgie,  who  liked  a  good  campfire  sing  himself.  Were  there  any  sorrows  of  early  life  that  couldn't  be  cured  by  a  rousing  performance  of  &quot;'The  Battle  Hymn  of  the  Republic&quot;?  He  walked  over  to  the  riding  ring  singing,  &quot;They  have  builded  him  an  altar  in  the  evening  dews  and  damps.  ...&quot;  It  had  be-  gun  to  rain  again,  and  Georgie  couldn't  tell  whether  the  boy's  face  waswet  with  tears  or  drops  of  rain.  He  was  on  horseback  and  being  led  around  the  ring  by  a  groom.  Bibber  waved  once  to  his  father  and  nearly  lost  his  seat,  and  when  the  boy's  back  was  turned  Georgie  went  away.  He  flew  to  Treviso  and  took  a  train  into  4974616c79,  where  Jill  waited  for  him  in  a  Swiss  hotel  on  one  of  the  back  canals.  Their  reunion  was  ardent,  and  heloved  her  no  less  for  noticing  that  she  was  tired  and  thin.  Getting  her  lambs  across  Europe  had  been  a  rigorous  and  exhausting  task.  W  hat  he  wanted  to  do  then  was  to  move  from  their  third-  rate  hotel  to  Cipriani's,  get  a  cabafia  at  the  Lido,  and  spend  a  week  on  the  beach.  Jill  refused  to  move  to  Cipri-  ani's-it  would  be  full  of  tourists-and  on  their  second  day  in  4974616c79  she  got  up  at  seven,  made  instant  coffee  in  a  tooth-  brush  glass,  and  rushed  him  off  to  eight-  o'clock  Mass  at  St.  Mark's.  Georgie  knew  4974616c79,  and  Jill  knew-or  should  have  know  n-that  he  was  not  interested  in  painting  or  mosaics,  but  she  led  him  by  the  nose,  so  to  speak,  from  monu-  ment  to  monument.  He  guessed  that  she  had  got  into  the  habit  of  tireless  sightseeing,  and  that  the  tactful  thing  to  do  would  be  to  wait  until  the  habit  spent  itself.  He  suggested  that  they  go  to  Harry's  for  lunch,  and  she  said,  &quot;What  in  the  world  are  you  thinking  of,  Georgie?&quot;  They  had  lunch  in  a  treat-  toria,  and  toured  churches  and  museums  until  closing  time.  In  the  morning,  he  suggested  that  they  go  to  the  Lido,  but  she  had  already  made  arrangements  to  go  to  Maser  and  see  the  villas.  Jill  brought  all  her  competence  as  a  tour  director  to  their  days  in  4974616c79,  al-  though  Georgie  didn't  see  why.  Most  of  us  enjoy  displaying  our  familiarity  with  the  world,  but  he  could  not  detect  a  trace  of  enjoyment  in  her  assault.  Some  people  love  painting  and  architecture,  but  there  was  nothing  loving  in  her  ap-  proach  to  the  treasures  of  4974616c79.  The  worship  of  beauty  was  mysterious  to  Georgie,  but  was  beauty  meant  to  crush  one's  sense  of  humor?  She  stood,  one  hot  afternoon,  before  the  facade  of  a  church,  lecturing  him  from  her  guidebook.  She  recited  dates,  naval  engagements,  and  so  on,  and  sketched  the  history  of  the  Re-  public  as  if  she  were  preparing  him  for  an  examination.  The  light  in  which  she  stood  was  bright  and  unflattering,  and  the  generally  festive  air  of  4974616c79  made  her  erudition,  the  sternness  of  her  enthu-  siasm,  seem  ungainly.  She  was  trying  to  impress  him  with  the  fact  that  4974616c79  was  to  be  taken  seriously.  And  was  this,  he  wondered,  t  he  meaning,  the  sum,  of  these  brilliant  marbles,  this  labyrinthine  and  dilapidated  place,  suffused  wi  th  the  rank  and  ancient  smell  of  bilge?  He  put  an  arm  around  her  and  s  aid,  &quot;Come  off  it,  darling.&quot;  She  put  him  away  from  her  and  said,  &quot;I  have  no  idea  what  you're  talking  about  .&quot;  Had  she  lost  an  address,  a  ch  ild,  a  p  ocketb  o  ok,  a  string  of  beads,  or  a  ny  other  valuable,  her  canvass  of  V  enice  coul  d  n't  ha  ve  been  more  gruelling  and  exhaustive.  He  spent  the  rest  of  their  t  ime  i  n  V  enic  e  accompanying  h  er  on  this  mysterious  search.  Now  and  then  h  e  thought  of  B  ibber  and  his  camp.  They  flew  home  from  Tr  eviso,  and  in  the  gentler  an  d  more  familiar  light  of  Gor-  den  ville  she  seemed  herself  again.  They  took  up  their  happiness,  an  d  welcomed  Bibber  when  he  was  released  from  camp.  &quot;TSN  T  it  divin  e,  isn't  it  the  most  di-  vine  pe  riod  in  domestic  American  architecture?&quot;  Jill  always  asked,  show-  ing  guests  through  their  large  frame  house.  The  house  had  been  built  in  the  eighteen-seventies,  and  had  long  win-  dows,  an  oval  dining  room,  and  a  stable  " b"with  a  cupola.  It  must  have  been  difficult  to  maintain,  but  these  difficulties-at  parties,  anyhow-were  never  felt.  The  high-ceilinged  rooms  were  filled  with  light  and  had  a  special  grace-austere,  gloomy,  and  finely  balanced.  The  obvi-  ous  social  responsibilities  were  all  hers;  his  conversation  was  confined  to  the  shipbuilding  industry,  but  he  mixed  the  drinks,  carved  the  roast,  and  poured  the  wine.  There  was  a  fire  in  the  fireplace,  there  were  flowers,  the  furniture  and  the  silver  shone,  and  no  one  knew  and  no  one  would  have  guessed  that  it  was  he  who  polished  the  furniture  and  forks.  &quot;Housework  simply  isn't  my  style,&quot;  she  had  said,  and  he  was  intelligent  enough  to  see  the  truth  in  her  remark;  intelligent  enough  not  to  expect  her  to  recast  this  image  of  herself  as  an  educat-  ed  woman.  It  was  the  source  of  much  of  her  vitality  and  joy.  One  stormy  winter,  they  weren't  able  to  get  any  servants  at  all.  A  fly-by-night  cook  came  in  when  they  had  guests,  but  the  rest  of  the  work  fell  to  Georgie.  That  was  the  year  Jill  was  studying  French  literature  at  Columbia  and  try-  ing  to  finish  her  book  on  Flaubert.  On  a  typical  domestic  evening,  Jill  would  be  sitting  at  her  desk  in  their  bedroom,  working  on  her  book.  Bibber  would  be  asleep.  Georgie  might  be  in  the  kitchen,  polishing  the  brass  and  the  silver.  He     wore  an  apron.  He  drank  whiskey.  He  was  surrounded  by  cigarette  boxes,  and-  irons,  bowls,  ewers,  and  a  large  chest  of  table  silver.  He  did  not  like  to  polish  silver,  but  if  he  did  not  do  this  the  silver  would  turn  black.  As  she  had  said,  it  was  nother  style.  It  was  not  his  style,  either,  nor  was  it  any  part  of  his  education,  but  if  he  was,  as  she  said,  unintellectual,  he  was  not  so  unintellectual  as  to  accept  any  of  the  vulgarities  and  commonplaces  associated  with  the  struggle  for  sexual  equality.  The  struggle  was  recent,  he  knew;  it  was  real;  it  was  inexorable;  and  while  she  sidestepped  her  domestic  tasks,  he  could  sense  that  she  might  do  this  un-  willingly.  She  had  been  raised  as  an  in-  tellectual,  her  emancipation  was  still  challenged  in  many  quarters,  and  since  he  seemed  to  possess  more  latitude,  to  hold  a  stronger  traditional  position,  it  was  his  place  to  yield  on  matters  like  housework.  It  was  not  her  choice,  he  knew,  that  she  was  raised  as  an  intellec-  tual,  but  the  choice,  havingbeen  made  by  others,  seemed  irrevocable.  His  restless  sexual  nature  attributed  to  her  softness,  warmth,  and  the  utter  darkness  of  love;  but  why,  he  wondered  as  he  polished  the  forks,  did  there  seem  to  be  some  con-  tradiction  between  these  attributes  and  the  possession  ofa  clear  mind?  Intellect,  he  knew,  was  not  a  masculine  attribute,  although  the  bulk  of  tradition  had  put  his  instincts  lead  him  to  ex-  pect  that  the  woman  in  whose  arms  he  lay  each  night  would  at  least  con-  ceal  her  literacy?  Why  should  there  seem  to  be  some  rub  between  the  enormous  love  he  felt  for  her  and  her  ability  to  understand  the  quantum  theory?  She  wandered  downstairs  and  stood  in  the  kitchen  doorway,  watching  him  at  his  work.  Her  feeling  was  tender.  W  hat  a  kind,  gentle,  purposeful,  and  handsome  man  she  had  married.  W  hat  pride  he  took  in  their  house.  But  then,  as  she  went  on  watching  him,  she  suffered  a  spiritual  chill,  a  paroxysm  of  doubt.  Was  he,  bentover  the  kitchen  table  at  a  wom-  an's  work,  really  a  man?  Had  she  married  some  half  male,  some  aberration?  Did  he  like  to  wear  an  apron?  Was  he  a  transvestite?  And  was  she  aberrant  herself?  But  this  was  inadmissible,  and  equally  inadmissible  was  the  reasoning  that  would  bring  her  tosee  that  he  polished  silver  because  he  was  forced  to.  Suddenly  some  vague,  brutish  stray  appeared  in  the  corner  of  her  imagination,  some  hairy  and  drunk-  en  sailor  who  would  beat  her  on  Satur-  day  nights,  debauch  her  with  his  gross  appetites,  and  make  her  scrub  the  floor  on  her  hands  and  knees.  That  was  the  kind  of  man  she  should  have  married.  That  had  been  her  destiny.  He  looked  up,  smiled  gently,  and  asked  her  how  her  work  was  coming.  &quot;Ga  marche,  ca  marche,&quot;  she  said  wearily,  and  went  back  upstairs  to  her  desk.  &quot;Little  Gus-  tave  didn't  get  along  at  all  well  with  his  school  chums,&quot;  she  wrote.  &quot;He  was  frightfully  unpopular  .  ..&quot;  He  came  into  their  room  when  his  work  was  done.  He  ran  a  hand  lightly  through  her  hair.  &quot;Just  let  me  finish  this  paragraph,&quot;  she  said.  She  heard  him  take  a  shower,  heard  his  bare  feet  on  the  car-  pet  as  he  crossed  the  room  and  bounded  happily  into  bed.  Moved  equally  by  duty  and  desire  but  still  thinking  of  the  glories  of  Flaubert,  she  washed,  scented  herself  with  perfume,  and  joined  him  in  their  wide  bed,  which,  with  its  clean  and  fra-  grant  linen  and  equal  pools  of  light,  seemed  indeed  a  bower.  Bosquet,  she  thought,  brume,  bruit.  And  then,  sit-  " b"ting  up  in  his  arms,  she  exclaimed,  &quot;E/He  avait  lu  'Paul  et  Virginie  et  elle  avait  r\xc3\xa9v\xc3\xa9e  la  masonnette  de  bambous,  le  negre  Domingo,  le  chien  Fid\xc3\xa9le,  mais  surtout  Pamiti\xc3\xa9  douce  de  quelque  bon  petit  frere,  qui  va  chercher  pour  vous  des  fruits  rouges  dans  des  grands  arbres  plus  hauts  que  des  clochers,  ou  qui  court  pieds  mus  sur  le  sable,  vous  apportant  un  nid  d  oiseau  .  ..&quot;  &quot;Goddamn  it  to  hell!&quot;  he  said.  spoke  in  utter  bitterness.  He  got  out  of  bed,  got  a  blanket  from  the  closet,  and  made  his  bed  in  the  liv-  ing  room.  She  cried.  He  was  jealous  of  her  intelligence-she  saw  that.  But  was  she  meant  to  pose  as  a  cretin  in  order  to  be  attractive?  Why  should  he  rage  because  she  had  said  a  few  words  in  French?  To  assume  that  intelligence,  knowledge,  the  very  benefits  of  education  were  male  attributes  was  an  attitude  that  had  been  ob-  solete  for  a  century.  Then  she  felt  as  if  the  strain  put  on  her  heart  by  this  cruelty  was  too  much.  She  seemed  to  feel  one  of  its  fastenings  give,  as  if  this  organ  was  a  cask  and  so  heavily  laden  with  sorrow  that,  like  some  ruptured  treasure  chest  of  childhood,  its  sides  had  burst.  &quot;Intelligence&quot;  was  the  word  she  returned  to-intelli-  gence  was  at  stake,  And  yet  the  word  should  ring  free  and  clear  of  the  pain  she  was  suffering.  In-  telligence  was  the  subject  up  for  discussion,  but  it  had  the  sentience,  at  that  hour,  of  flesh  and  blood.  What  she  faced  was  the  bare  bones  of  pain,  cleansed  in  the  stewpot  and  polished  by  the  hound's  tooth;  this  intelligence  had  the  taste  of  death.  She  cried  herself  to  sleep.  Later  she  was  awakened  by  a  crash.  She  was  afraid.  Might  he  harm  her?  Had  something  gone  wrong  with  the  complicated  ma-  chinery  of  the  old  house?  Bur-  glars?  Fire?  The  noise  had  come  from  their  bathroom.  She  found  him  naked  on  his  hands  and  knees  on  the  bathroom  floor.  His  head  was  under  the  washbasin.  She  went  to  him  quickly  and  helped  him  to  his  feet.  &quot;I'm  all  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  just  terribly  drunk.&quot;  She  helped  him  back  to  their  bed,  where  he  fell  asleep  at  once.  He  HEY  had  a  dinner  party  a  few  nights  later,  and  all  the  silver  he  had  polished  was  used.  The  party  went  off  without  a     hitch.  One  of  their  guests,  a  lawyer,  described  a  local  scandal.  A  four-mile  link  of  highway,  connecting  two  park-  ways  in  the  neighborhood,  had  been  ap-  proved  by  the  state  and  the  local  gov-  ernments.  The  cost  was  three  million  dollars,  on  a  bid  given  by  a  contractor  named  Felici.  The  road  was  to  destroy  a  large  formal  garden  and  park  that  had  been  maintained  and  open  to  the  public  for  half  a  century.  The  owner, an  octogenarian,  lived  in  San  Francisco  and  was  either  helpless,  indifferent,  or  immobilized  by  indignation.  The  con-  necting  road  was  of  no  use;  no  study  of  traffic  patterns  had  proved  that  there  was  any  need  for  such  a  road.  A  beau-  tiful  park  and  a  large  slice  of  tax  money  were  to  be  handed  over  to  an  unscrupu-  lous  and  avaricious  contractor.  It  was  the  kind  of  story  Jill  liked.  Her  eyes  were  bright,  her  color  was  high.  Georgie  watched  her  with  a  mixture  of  pride  and  dismay.  Her  civic  zeal  had  been  provoked,  and  he  knew  she  would  pursue  the  scan-  dal  to  some  conclusion.  She  was  very  happy  with  this  challenge,  but  it  was,  on  that  evening,  a  happiness  that  embraced  her  house,  her  hus-  band,  her  way  of  life.  On  Mon-  day  morning  she  stormed  the  vari-  ous  commissions  that  controlled  highway  construction,  and  verified  the  scandal.  Then  she  organized  a  committee  and  circulated  a  petition.  An  old  woman  named  Mrs.  Haney  was  found  to  take  care  of  Bibber,  and  a  high-school  girl  came  into  read  to  him  in  the  afternoons.  Jill  was  absorbed  in  her  work,  bright-  eyed  and  excited.  This  was  in  December.  Late  one  afternoon,  Georgie  left  his  office  in  [REDACTED]  and  went  into  New  York  to  do  some  shopping.  All  the  high  buildings  in  midtown  were  hidden  in  rain  clouds,  but  he  felt  their  pres-  ence  overhead  like  the  presence  of  a  familiar  mountain  range.  His  feet  were  wet  and  his  throat  felt  sore.  The  streets  were  crowded,  and  the  decorations  on  the  store  fronts  were  mostly  at  such  an  angle  that  their  meaning  escaped  him.  While  he  could  see  the  canopy  of  light  at  Lord  &amp;  Taylor's,  he  could  only  see  the  chins  and  vestments  of  the  choir  plastered  across  the  front  of  Saks.  Blasts  of  holy  music  wavered  through  the  rain.  He  stepped  into  a  puddle.  It  was  as  dark  as  night;  it  seemed,  because  of  the  many  lights,  the  darkest  of  nights.  He  went  into  Saks.  Inside,  the  scene  of  well-dressed  and  brightly  lighted  pillage  stopped  him.  He  stood  to  one  side  to  avoid  being  savaged  by  the  crowds  that  were  pushing  their  way  in  and  out.  He  distinctly  felt  the  symptoms  of  a  cold.  A  woman  standing  beside  him  dropped  some  parcels.  He  picked  them  up.  She  had  a  pleasant  face,  wore  a  black  mink  coat,  and  her  feet,  he  noticed,  were  wetter  than  his.  She  thanked  him,  and  he  asked  if  she  was  going  to  storm  the  counters.  &quot;I  thought  " b" I  would,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  now  I  think  I  won't.  My  feet  are  wet,  and  I  have  a  terrible  feeling  that  I'm  coming  down  with  a  cold.&quot;  &quot;I  feel  the  same  way,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  find  some  quietplace  and  have  a  drink.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  but  I  couldn't  do  that,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why  not?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;It's  a  festi-  val,  isn't  it?&quot;  The  dark  afternoon  seemed  to  turn  on  that  word.  It  was  meant  to  be  festive.  That  was  the  meaning  of  the  singing  and  the  lights.  &quot;I  had  never  thought  of  it  that  way,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;he  said.  He  took  her  arm  and  led  her  down  the  Avenue  to  a  quiet  bar.  He  ordered  drinks  and  sneezed.  &quot;You  ought  to  have  a  hot  bath  and  go  to  bed,&quot;  she  said.  Her  con-  cern  seemed  purely  maternal.  He  in-  troduced  himself.  Her  name  was  Betty  Landers.  Her  husband  was  a  doctor.  Her  daughter  was  married  and  her  son  was  in  his  last  year  at  Cornell.  She  was  alone  a  good  dealof  the  time,  but  she  had  recently  taken  up  painting.  She  went  to  the  Art  Students  League,  three  times  a  week,  and  had  a  studio  in  the  Village.  They  had  three  orfour  drinks  and  then  took  a  cab  downtown  to  see  her  studio.  It  was  not  his  idea  of  a  studio.  It  was  a  two-room  apartment  in  one  of  the  new  buildings  near  [REDACTED]  Square  and  looked  a  little  like  the  lair  ofa  spinster.  She  pointed  out  her  treasures.  That's  what  she  called  them.  The  desk  she  had  bought  in  [REDACTED],  the  chair  she  had  bought  in  [REDACTED],  the  signed  Matisse  lithograph.  Her  hair  and  her  eyebrows  were  dark,  her  face  was  thin,  and  she  might  havebeen  a  spinster.  She  made  him  a  drink,  and  when  he  asked  to  see  her  paintings  she  modestly  refused,  al-  though  he  was  to  see  them  later,  stacked  up  in  the  bathroom,  where  her  easel  and  her  other  equipment  were  neatly  stored.  Why  they  became  lovers,  why  in  the  presence  of  this  stranger  he  should  sud-  denly  find  himself  divested  of  all  his  inhibitions  and  all  his  clothing,  he  never  understood.  She  was  not  young,  Her  elbows  and  knees  were  lightly  gnarled,  as  if  she  were  some  distant  cousin  of  Daphne  and  would  presently  be  transformed,  not  into  a  flow-  ering  shrub  but  into  some  hardy  and  common  tree.  They  met  after  this,  two  or  three  times  a  week.  He  never  dis-  covered  much  about  her  beyond  the  fact  that  she  lived  on  Park  Avenue  and  was  often  alone.  She  was  interested  in  his  clothes  and  kept  him  posted  on  department-store  sales.  It  was  a  large  part  of  her  conversation.  Sitting  in  his  lap,  she  told  him  that  there  was  a  sale  of  neckties  at  Saks,  a  sale  of  shoes  at  Brooks,  a  sale  of  shirts  at  Altman's.  Jill,  by  this  time,  was  so  absorbed  in  her  campaign  that  she  hardly  noticed  his  arrivals  and  de-  partures,  but,  sitting  one  evening  in  the  living  room  while  Jill  was  busy  on  the  upstairs  telephone,  he  felt  that  he  had  behaved  shabbily.  He  felt  that  it  was  time  that  the  affair,  begun  on  that  dark  afternoon  before  Christmas,  was  oven  He  took  some  notepaper  and  wrote  to  Betty:  &quot;Darling,  I'm  leaving  for  San  Francisco  this  evening  and  will  be  gone  six  weeks.  I  think  it  will  be  better,  and  I'm  sure  you'll  agree  with  me,  if  we  don't  meet  again.&quot;  He  wrote  the  letter  a  second  time,  changing  San  Francisco  to  Rome,  and  addressed  the  note  to  her  studio  in  the  Village.  Jill  was  campaigning  on  the  telephone  the  next  night  when  he  returned  home.  Mathilde,  the  high-school  girl,  was  reading  to  Bibber.  He  spoke  to  his  son  and  then  went  down  to  the  pantry  to  make  a  drink.  While  he  was  there,  he  heard  Jill's  heels  on  the  stairs.  They  seemed  to  strike  aswift  and  vengeful  note,  and  when  she  came  into  the  pantry  her  face  was  pale  and  drawn.  Her  hands  were  shaking,  and  in  one  of  them  she  held  the  first  of  the  two  notes  he  had  written.  &quot;What  is  the  meaning  of  this?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Where  did  you  find  it?&quot;  &quot;In  the  wastepaper  basket.&quot;  &quot;Then  I  will  explain,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Please  sit  down.  Sit  down  for  a  minute,  and  I'll  explain  the  whole  thing.&quot;  &quot;Do  I  have  to  sit  down?  I'm  terribly  busy.&quot;  &quot;No,  you  don't  have  to  sit  down,  but  would  you  close  the  door?  Mathilde  can  hear  us.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  believe  you  have  anything  to  say  that  would  necessitate  closing  a  dour\xe2\x80\x98\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;I  have  this  to  say,&quot;  he  said.  He  closed  the  door.  &quot;In  December,  just  before  Christmas,  I  took  a  mistress,  a  lonely  woman.  I  can't  explain  my  choice.  It  may  have  been  because  she  had  an  apart-     Preston  NOVEMBER  2,  19  63  ment  of  her  own.  She  was  not  young;  she  was  not  beautiful.  Her  children  are  grown.  Her  husband  is  a  doctor.  They  live  on  ParkAvenue.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  God,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;Park  Ave-  nue!&quot;  and  she  laughed.  &quot;I  adore  that  part  of  it.  I  could  have  guessed  that  if  you  invented  a  mistress  she  would  live  on  Park  Avenue.  You've  always  been  such  a  hick.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  this  is  all  an  inven-  tion?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  do.  I  think  you've  made  the  whole  thing  up  to  try  and  hurt  me.  You've  never  had  much  of  an  imagina-  tion.  You  might  have  done  better  if  you'd  tasted  some  Thackeray.  Really.  A  Park  Avenue  matron.  Couldn't  you  have  invented  something  more  delecta-  ble?  A  Vassar  senior  with  blazing  red  hair?  A  colored  night-club  singer?  An  Italian  princess?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  really  think  I've  made  this  all  up?&quot;  &quot;I  do,  I  do,  I  think  it's  all  a  fabrication  and  a  loathsome  one,  but  tell  me  more,  tell  me  more  about  your  Park  Avenue  matron.&quot;  &quot;I  have  nothing  more  to  tell  you.&quot;  &quot;You  have  nothing  more  to  tell  me  because  your  powers  of  invention  have  collapsed.  Isn't  that  it?  My  advice  to  you,  old  chap,  is  never  to  embark  on  any-  thing  that  counts  on  a  powerful  imagina-  tion.  It  isn't  your  forte.&quot;  &quot;'You  don't  believe  me.&quot;  &quot;I  do  not,  and  if  I  did  I  wouldn't  be  jealous.  My  sort  of  woman  is  never  jeal-  ous.  I  have  more  important  things  to  do  &gt;  AT  this  point  in  their  marriage,  Jill's  assault  on  the  highway  commis-  sion  served  as  a  sort  of  suspension  bridge  over  which  they  could  travel,  meet,  con-  verse,  and  dine  together,  elevated  safely  above  the  turbulence  of  their  feelings.  She  was  working  to  have  the  issue  brought  to  a  public  hearing,  and  was  to  appear  before  the  commission  with  peti-  tions  and  documents  that  would  prove  the  gravity  of  her  case  and  the  number  of  influential  supporters  she  had  been  able  to  enlist.  Unluckily,  at  this  time  Bibber  came  down  with  a  bad  cold  and  it  was  difficult  to  find  anyone  to  stay  with  him.  Now  and  then,  Mrs.  Haney  would  come  to  sit  be-  side  his  bed,  and  in  the  afternoons  Mathilde  read  to  him.  When  it  was  necessary  for  Jill  to  go  to  [REDACTED],  Georgie  stayed  home  from  his  office  for  a  day  so  that  she  could  make  this  trip.  He  stayed  home  on  another  day  when  she  had  an  important  appointment  and  Mrs.  Haney  couldn't  come.     " b"She  was  sincerely  grateful  to  him  for  these  sacrifices,  and  he  had  nothing  but  admiration  for  her  intelligence  and  tenacity.  She  was  far  superior  to  him  as  an  advocate  and  as  an  organizer.  She  was  to  appear  before  the  commission  on  a  Friday,  and  he  looked  forward  to  hav-  ing  this  much  of  their  struggle  behind  them.  He  came  home  on  Friday  at  around  six.  He  called  out,  &quot;Jill?  Mathilde?  Mrs.  Haney?,&quot;  but  there  was  no  answer.  He  threw  off  his  hat  and  coat  and  bounded  up  the  stairs  to  Bibber's  room.  The  room  was  lighted,  but  the  boy  was  alone  and  seemed  to  be  asleep.  Pinned  to  his  pillow  was  this  note:  &quot;Dear  Mrs.  Madison  my  aunt  and  uncle  came  to  visit  with  us  and  I  have  to  go  home  and  help  my  mother.  Bibber  is  asleep  so  he  won't  know  the  difference.  I  am  sorry.  Mathilde.&quot;  On  the  pillow  next  to  the  note  was  a  dark  stain  of  blood.  He  touched  the  boy  lightly  and  felt  the  searing  heat  of  fever.  Then  he  tried  to  rouse  the  child,  but  Bibber  was  not  sleeping;  he  was  unconscious.  Georgie  moistened  the  boy's  lips  with  some  water,  and  Bibber  regained  con-  sciousness  long  enough  to  throw  his  arms  around  his  father.  The  pathos  of  seeing  the  burden  of  grave  illness  on  someone  so  innocent  and  so  young  made Georgie  cry.  There  was  a  tumultuous  power  of  love  in  that  small  room,  and  he  had  to  subdue  his  feelings  lest  he  harm  the  boy  with  the  force  of  his  embrace.  They  clung  to  one  another.  Then  Georgie  called  the  doctor.  He  called  ten  times,  and  each  time  he  heard  the  idiotic  and  frustrating  busy  signal.  Then  he  called  the  hospital  and  asked  for  an  ambulance.  He  wrapped  the  boy  in  a  blanket  and  carried  him  down  the  stairs,  enormously  grateful  to  have  this  much  to  do.  The  ambulance  was  there  in  a  few  minutes.  Jill  had  stopped  long  enough  to  have  a  drink  with  one  of  her  assistants,  and  " b"came  in  a  half  hour  later.  &quot;Hail  the  conquering  hero!&quot;  she  called  as  she  stepped  into  the  empty  house.  &quot;We  shall  have  our  hearing,  and  the  scurvy  rascals  are  on  the  run.  Even  Felici  ap-  peared  to  be  moved  by  my  eloquence,  and  Carter  said  that  I  should  have  been  an  advocate.  I  was  simply  stupendous.&quot;  TEM:  &quot;INTL  PD  FLORENCE  VIA  RCA  22  23  9235  AMELIA  FAXON  CHIDCHESTER  CARE  AMEXCO:  BIB-  BER  DIED  OF  PNEUMONIA  ON  THURS-  DAY.  CAN  YOU  RETURN  OR  MAY  I  COME  TO  YOU  LOVE  JILL&quot;  mELIA  Faxon  CnHipcHEsTER  was  staying  with  her  old  friend  Louisa  Trefaldi,  in  Fiesole.  She  bicycled  down  into  Florence  late  in  the  afternoon  of  the  twenty-third  of  January.  Her  bi-  cycle  was  an  old,  high-seated  Dutheil,  and  it  elevated  her  a  little  above  the  small  cars.  She  pumped  imperturbably  through  some  of  the  worst  traffic  in  the  world.  Her  life  was  threatened  every  few  minutes  by  a  Vespa  ora  trolley,  but  she  yielded  to  no  one,  and  the  look  on  her  ruddy  face  was  serene.  Elevated,  mov-  ing  with  that  somnambulistic  pace  of  a  cyclist,  smiling  gently  at  the  death  that  menaced  her  at  every  intersection,  she  looked  a  little  supernatural,  and  it  may  have  been  that  she  thought  she  was.  Her  smile  was  sweet,  inscrutable,  and  adamantine,  and  you  felt  that  had  she  been  knocked  off  her  bicycle,  this  ex-  pression,  as  she  sailed  through  the  air,  would  not  lose  its  patience.  She  pumped  over  a  bridge,  dismounted  gracefully,  and  walked  along  the  river  to  the  Amer-  ican  Express  office.  Here  she  barked  out  her  greetings  in  Italian,  anxious  to  disassociate  herself  from  the  horseless  American  cowboys  and  above  all  from  her  own  kind,  the  truly  lost  and  un-  wanted,  who  move  like  leaves  around  the  edges  of  the  world,  gathering  only  long  enough  to  wait  in  line  and  see  if  there  is  any  mail.  'The  place  was  crowd-  ed,  and  she  read  her  tragic  cable  in  the  middle  of  the  crowd.  You  could  not,  from  her  expression,  have  guessed  its  content.  She  sighed  deeply  and  raised  her  face.  She  seemed  ennobled.  She  wrote  her  reply  at  once:  &quot;NON  POSSO  TORNARE  TANTI  BACI  FERVIDL  MELEE.&quot;  &quot;Dearest  darling,&quot;  she  wrote  that  evening.  &quot;I  was  frightfully  sorry  to  have  your  tragic  news.  I  can  only  thank  God  that  I  didn't  know  him  better,  but  my  experience  in  these  matters  is  rather  extensive,  and  I  have  come  to  a  time  of  life  when  I  do  not  especially  like  to  dwell  upon  the  subject  of  passing  away.  There  is  no  street  I  walk  on,  no  building  or  painting  that  I  see  here  that  doesn't  remind  me  of  Berenson,  dear  Berenson.  The  last  time  I  saw  him,  I  sat  at  his  feet  and  asked  if  he  had  a  magic  carpet  what  picture  in  the  whole  wide  world  would  he  ask  to  be  transported  to.  With-  out  a  moment's  hesitation  he  chose  the  Raphael  Madonna  in  the  Hermitage.  It  is  not  possible  for  me  to  return.  The  truth  will  out,  and  the  truth  is  that  I  don't  like  my  own  countrymen.  As  for  your  coming  over,  I  am  now  staying  with  dear  Louisa  and,  as  you  know,  with  her,  two  is  company,  three  is  a  crowd.  Perhaps  in  the  autumn,  when  your  loss  is  not  so  painful,  we  might  meet  in  [REDACTED]  for  a  few  days  and  revisit  some  of  our  old  haunts.&quot;  ITENI:  The  message  hidden  in  a  fortune  cookie  in  a  Chinese  restaurant  in  down-  town  [REDACTED]:  &quot;A  GREAT  EXPERIENCE  AWAITS  YOT.&quot;  AFTER  the  divorce,  Jill  got  a  job  as  an  editorial  assistant  in  a  Mid-  western  textbook  firm.  She  was  dining  alone  one  evening  when  these  tidings  appeared  in  her  dessert.  She  began  to  cry.  The  waiter  watched  her,  turned  his  back,  and  counted  to  one  hundred,  hoping  that  she  would  have  got  control  of  herself  by  this  time,  but  she  was  sob-  bing  more  fiercely  than  before.  He  filled  her  water  glass-it  was  the  only  thing  he  could  think  to  do.  But  by  this  time  she  was  the  center  of  attention  in  that  part  of  the  restaurant.  She  cried  because  her  virtuousness  had  gone  unrewarded.  The  color  and  move-  ment  of  the  world  had  seemed  to  her  to  be  some  raw  material  out  of  which  she  couldshape  something  splendid,  and  who  had  ever  cared?  The  signals  she  had  answered  had  been  deceptive.  Someone  had  shifted  her  bearings  in  the  dark.  But  it  was  the  feeling,  the  conviction,  that  she  had  been  forgotten  that  hurt  most.  She  had  struggled,  and  her  strug-  gle  had  never  been  noticed;  that  was  where  the  pain  lay.  'That  night  in  To-  ledo,  walking  away  from  the  restau-  rant,  she  felt  that  she  was  not  remem-  bered  anywhere.  But  she  was  mistaken  in  this.  She  was  not  as  forgotten  as  it  seemed.  Felici,  the  highway  contractor  whose  dishonest  scheme  she  had  exposed  and  frustrated,  remembered  her  with  admiration.  Her  old  mother,  bicycling  through  the  out-  skirts  of  Ghent,  remembered  her  ten-  derly.  Georgie,  who  had  married  again,  remembered  her  with  pain  and  bewil-  derment.  And  the  people  who  lived  acrossthe  street  in  Gordenville  had  named  their  cat  after  her.  It  was,  as  they  said,  such  an  authoritative  and  vi-  vacious  cat,  and  its  eyes  were  set  so  close  together.  "