 b"WHEN  I  open  the  door  for  Mrs.  Cooper  at  two  in  the  afternoon,  three  days  a  week,  that  is  the  one  time  her  voice  fails  us  both.  She  smiles  over  my  left  shoulder  and  hur-  ries  out  the  words  &quot;Just  fine,&quot;  to  get  past  me.  She  is  looking  for  the  baby,  either  in  the  bassinet  in  the  living  room  or  in  the  crib  in  the  baby's  room.  When  she  finds  her,  she  can  talk  more  easily  to  me-through  the  baby.  But  at  the  doorway  again,  in  the  early  evening,  taking  leave,  Mrs.  Cooper  speaks  up  in  her  rightful  voice,  strong  and  slow:  &quot;I  am  saying  good  night.&quot;  It  seems  to  me  that  the  &quot;I  am  saying&quot;  form,  once  removed  from  herself,  frees  her  of  her  shyness.  As  if  she  had  already  left  and  were  standing  in  the  hall,  away  from  strangers,  and  were  sending  back  the  message  &quot;I  am  saying  good  night.&quot;  Maybe.  I  know  little  about  Mrs.  Cooper,  and  so  read  much  into  her  ways.  Despite  the  differences  between  us,  each  of  us  seems  to  read  the  other  the  same-  tender  creature,  prone  to  suffer.  Mrs.  Cooper  says  to  me,  many  times  a  day,  &quot;That  is  all  right,  that  is  all  right,&quot;  in  a  soothing  tone.  I  say  to  her,  ''That's  such  a  help,  thank  you,  such  a  help.&quot;  What  can  I  guess,  except  what  reflects  myself,  about  someone  so  different  from  me?  Mrs.  Cooper  is  from  [REDACTED].  She  is  round-faced  and  round-figured.  She  is  my  age,  thirty,  and  about  my  height, five-five.  But  because  she  is  twice  my  girth  (not  fat;  if  there  is  any  unfavor-  able  comparison  to  be  drawn,  it  may  as  well  be  that  I  am,  by  her  standard,  meagre)  and  because  she  has  four  chil-  dren  to  my  one,  she  seems  older.  She  is  very  black;  I  am-as  I  remember  the  campus  doctor  at  the  women's  college  I  attended  saying-&quot;surprisingly  fair.&quot;  Though,  of  course,  not  Anglo-Saxon.  If  you  are  not  Anglo-Saxon,  being  fair  counts  only  up  to  a  point.  I  learned  that  at  the  women's  college.  I  remem-  ber  a  conversation  with  a  girl  at  college  who  had  an  ambiguous  name-Green  or  Black  or  Brown.  She  said  in  the  long  run  life  was  simpler  if  your  name  was  Finkelstein.  And  I  said  it  was  bet-  ter  to  be  dark  and  done  with  it.  Mrs.  Cooper  has  been  coming  to  us,  with  her  serious  black  bulk  and  her  beautiful  voice,  for  two  months  now,  so  that  I  can  get  on  with  my  work,  which  is  free-lance  editorial.  The  name  is  lighthearted  enough,  but  the  lance  is  heavy  and  keeps  me  pinned  to  my  desk.  Mrs.  Cooper's  work,  in  her  hands,  seems  delightful.  Though  she  comes  to  relieve  me  of  that  same  work,  it  is  a  little  like  watching  Tom  Sawyer  paint  a  fence-so  attractive  one  would  glad-  ly  pay  an  apple  to  be  allowed  to  lend  a  hand.  Even  the  slippery  bath,  the  howls  as  my  daughter's  sparse  hairs  are  shampooed,  become  amusing  mites  on  the  giant  surface  of  Mrs.  Cooper's  calm.  They  raise  Mrs.  Cooper's  laugh.   &quot;Ooh,  my!  You  can  certainly  sing!&quot;  I1  sneak  from  my  desk  several  times  an  afternoon  to  watch  the  work  and  to  hear  Mrs.  Cooper  speak.  Her  speech,  with  its  trotty  4a616d61696361n  rhythm,  brings  every  syllable  to  life  and  pays  exquisite  attention  to  the  final  sounds  of  words.  When  she  telephones  home  to  instruct  the  oldest  of  her  children  in  the  care  of  the  youngest,  it  is  truethat  her  syntax  relaxes.  I  hear  &quot;Give  she  supper  and  put  she  to  bed.&quot;  Or  &quot;When  I'm  com-  ing  home  I  am  going  to  wash  the  chil-  dren  them  hair.&quot;  But  the  tone  of  her  voice  is  the  same  as  when  she  speaks  to  me.  It  is  warm,  melodious.  Always  the  diction  is  glorious-ready,  with  only  a  bit  of  memorizing,  for  Shake-  speare.  Or,  if  one  could  connect  a  woman's  voice  with  the  Old  Testament,  for  that.  &quot;God  is  nota  God  of  confusion.&quot;  Mrs.  Cooper  says  that  to  me  one  day  while  the  baby  naps  and  she  washes  baby  clothes  in  the  double  tub  in  the  kitchen.  I  have  come  in  to  get  an  apple  from  the  refrigerator.  She  refuses  any  fruit,  and  I  stand  and  eat  and  watch  the  best  work  in  the  world:  rhythmic  rubbing-  a-dubbing  in  a  sudsy  tub.  With  sturdy  arms.  She  says  it  again.  &quot;God  is  not  a  God  of  confusion,  that  is  what  my  husband  cousin  say.&quot;  A  pause.  &quot;And  that  is  what  I  see.&quot;  She  washes;  I  suspend  my  apple.  &quot;It  is  very  noisy  in  these  churches  you  have  here.&quot;  She  has  been  in  this  country  for  three  years-her  husband  came  before,  and  later  sent  for  her  and  the  children,  mildly  surprising  her  moth-  er,  who  had  other  daugh-  ters  and  daughters'  kids  similarly  left  but  not  re-  claimed-and  still  she  is  bothered  by  noisy  churches.  Her  family  in  [REDACTED]  is  Baptist.  But  when  she  goes  to  the  Baptist  church  in  [REDACTED],  she  is  offended  by  the  stamping  and  hand-  clapping,  by  the  shouted  confessions  and  the  tear-  ful  salvations.  &quot;They  say  wherever  you  go  you  are  at  home  in  your  church.  But  we  would  never  do  that  way  at  home.&quot;  She  lifts  her  arms  from  the  tub  and  pushes  the  suds  down  over  her  wrists  and  hands.  &quot;But  I  will  find  a  church.&quot;  The  purity  of  her  diction  gives  the  words  great  strength.  The  tone  and  timbre  would  " b"be  fitting  if  she  had  said,  &quot;I  will  build  a  church.&quot;  Again  she  plunges  her  arms  in  suds.  &quot;Do  you  ever  go,&quot;  she  asks  me,  &quot;to  that  church?  To  that  Baptist  church?&quot;  Now  is  the  time  for  me  to  tell  her  that  my  husband  and  I  are  Jewish-  and  so,  it  occurs  to  me  suddenly  and  absurdly,  is  our  three-month-old  daugh-  ter,  Susan.  It  is  coming  to  Christmas.  I  have  al-  ready  mentioned  to  my  husband  that  Mrs.  Cooper,  who  has  said  how  her  chil-  dren  look  forward  to  the  tree,  will  won-  der  at  our  not  having  one  for  our  child.  &quot;I  don't  feel  like  making  any  announce-  ments,&quot;  I  tell  my  husband,  &quot;but  I  sup-  pose  I  should.  She'll  wonder.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  owe  her  an  explanation.&quot;  My  husband  doesn't  know  how  close,  on  winter  afternoons,  a  woman  is  drawn  to  another  woman  who  works  in  her  house.  It  would  surprise  him  to  hear  that  I  have  already  mentioned  to  Mrs.  Cooper  certain  intimate  details  of  my  life,  and  that  she  has  revealed  to  me  a  heart-  ache  about  her  husband.  &quot;But  I  think  I'll  tell  her,&quot;  Isay.  &quot;Not  even  a  spray  of  balsam.  I'd  rather  have  her  think  us  Godless  than  heartless.&quot;  My  husband  suggests,  &quot;'Tell  her  about  Chanukah&quot;-which  with  us  is  humor,  because  he  knows  I  wouldn't  know  what  to  tell.  Mrs.  Cooper  stands  before  my  tub  in  the  lighted  kitchen.  I  lean  in  the  door-  way,  watching  her.  The  kitchen  win-  dow  is  black.  Outside,  it  is  a  freezing  four  o'clock.  Inside,  time  is  suspended,  as  always  when  the  baby  sleeps.  I  smell  the  hot,  soaped  flannel,  wrung  out  and  heaped  on  the  drainboard,  waiting  to  be  rinsed  in  three  pure  waters.  &quot;We  don't  attend  church,&quot;  Isay.  &quot;We  go-at  least,  my  husband  goes-to  a  syna-  gogue.  My  husband  and  I  are  Jewish,  Mrs.  Cooper.&quot;  Mrs,  Cooper  looks  into  the  tub.  Aft-  er  a  moment,  she  says,  &quot;'That  is  all  right.&quot;  She  fishes  below  a  cream  of  suds,  pulls  up  a  garment,  and  unrolls  a  mitten  sleeve.  Shewrings  it  and  rubs  it  and  plunges  it  down  to  soak.  Loving  work,  as  she  performs  it-mother's  work.  As  I  watch,  my  body  seems  to  pass  into  her  body.  I  am  glad  that  my  reluctance  to  speak  of  synagogues  at  all  has  led  me  to  speak  while  Mrs.  Cooper  is  working.  That  is  the  right  way.  We  never,  I  realize  while  she  scrubs,  still  seeming  to  be  listening,  talk  face  to  face.  She  is  always  looking  somewhere  else-at  the  washing  or  the  baby's  toy  she  is  going  to  pick  up.  Being  a  shy  person,  I  have  drilled  myself  to  stare  people  in  the  eyes  when  I  speak.  But  Mrs.  Cooper  convinces  me  this  is  wrong.  The  face-to-face  stare  is  for  selling  something,  or  for  saying,  &quot;Look  here,  I  don't  like  you  and  I  never  have  liked  you,&quot;  or  for  answering,  &quot;Oh,  no,  Madam,  we  never  accept  for  refund  after  eight  days.&quot;  The  time  Mrs.  Cooper  told  me  her  husband  had  stopped  going  to  church  altogether,  she  was  holding  Susan,  and  she  uttered  those  exquisite  and  grieved  tones-&quot;He  will  not  go  with  me,  or  alone,  or  at  all  any  more&quot;  into  the  baby's  face,  not  mine.  Mrs.  Cooper  now  pulls  the  stopper  from  the  tub  and  the  suds  choke  down.  While  she  is  waiting,  she  casts  a  sidelong  look  at  me,which  I  sense  rather  than  see,  as  I  am  examining  my  apple  core.  She  likes  tosee  the  expression  on  my  face  after  I  have  spoken,  though  not  while  I  speak.  She  looks  back  at  the  sucking  tub.  When  Mrs.  Cooper  comes  again  on  Friday,  she  tells  me,  as  she  measures  formula  into  bottles,  &quot;My  husband  says  we  do  not  believe  Christmas  is  Christ's  birthday.&quot;  I,  of  course,  do  not  look  at  her,  except  to  snatch  a  glanceout  of  the  corner  of  my  eye,  while  I  fold  diapers  unneces-  sarily.  Her  expression  is  calm  and  bland,  high  round  cheekbones  shining,  slight-  ly  slanted  eyes  narrowed  to  the  meas-  uring.  &quot;He  was  born,  we  believe,  some-  time  in  April.&quot;  After  a  bit,  she  adds,  " b"We  believe  there  is  one  God  for  every-  one.\xe2\x80\x9d  Though  my  husband  has  told  me  over  and  over  again  that  this  is  what  Jews  say,  Mrs.  Cooper's  words  move  me  as  though  I  have  never  heard  them  before.  I  murmur  something  about  my  work,  and  escape  to  my  desk  and  my  lance  again.  Mrs.  Cooper  has  quoted  her  husband  to  me  several  times.  I  am  curious  about  him,  as  I  am  sure  she  is  about  my  hus-  band.  She  and  my  husband  have  at  least  met  once  or  twice  in  the  doorway,  but  I  have  only  seen  a  snapshot  of  her  hus-  band:  a  stocky  man  with  a  mustache,  who  is  as  black  as  she,  with  no  smiles  for  photographers.  Mrs.  Cooper  has  added,  in  the  winter  afternoons,  certain  details  important  to  my  picture.  Her  husband  plays  cricket  on  Staten  Island  on  Sundays  and  goes  on  vacations  in  the  summer  without  her  or  the  chil-  dren,  sometimes  with  the  cricketers.  But,  to  balance  that,  he  brings  her  shrimps  and  rice  when  he  returns  at  1  a.m.  from  cricket-club  meetings  on  Friday  nights.  His  opinion  of  the  bus  strike  in  the  city  was  that  wages  should  goup  but  it  was  unfair  to  make  bus  riders  suffer.  About  Elizabeth  Taylor  he  thought  it  was  all  just  nonsense;  she  was  not  even  what  he  called  pretty-more  like  skinny  and  ugly.  In  most  other  respects,  it  seems  to  me,  he  is  taking  on  the  coloration  of  a  zestful  [REDACTED]-adopter.  There  are  two  kinds  of  immigrants,  I  observe.  One  kind  loves  everything  about  [REDACTED],  is  happy  to  throw  off  the  ways  of  the  old  country,  and  thereafter  looks  back  largely  with  contempt.  'The  other  kind  dislikes,  com-  pares,  regrets,  awakens  to  Welt-  and  Ichschmerz  and  feels  the  new  life  mainly  asa  loss  of  the  old.  Often,  the  two  marry  each  other.  Mr.  Cooper,  though  he  still  plays  cricket,  now  enjoys  baseball,  the  fights      on  television,  his  factory  job  and  union  card,  and  the  bustle  and  opportunity  of  New  York.  I  mention  thislast  with  no  irony.  Mr.  Cooper's  job  opportunities  here  are  infinitely  better  than  in  Jamai-  ca,  where  there  aren't  employers  even  to  turn  him  down.  He  goes  to  school  two  nights  a  week  for  technical  train-  ing.  He  became  a  citizen  three  years  ago,  destroying  his  wife's  hopes  of  re-  turning  to  [REDACTED]  in  their  young  years.  But  she  dreams  of  going  back  when  they  are  old.  She  would  have  servants  there,  she  told  me.  &quot;Because  there  aren't  enough  jobs,  servants  are  cheap.&quot;  Her  husband,  in  her  dream,  would  have  a  job,  and  so  they  would  also  have  a  car.  And  a  quiet,  gossipy  life.  She  likes  to  move  slowly,  and  this,  as  she  herself  points  out,  is  very  nice  for  my  baby.  Christmas  Week  comes,  and  we  give  Mrs.  Cooper  presents  for  her  children.  And  since  Christmas  Day  falls  on  the  last  of  her  regular  three  days  a  week,  we  pay  her  for  her  holiday  at  the  end  of  the  second  day.  &quot;Merry  Christmas,  Mrs.  Cooper,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Have  a  happy  holi-  day.&quot;  Mrs.  Cooper  looks  with  interest  at  the  baby  in  my  arms,  whom  she  had  a  mo-  ment  before  handed  over  to  me.  Sud-  denly  she  laughs  and  ducks  her  knees.  Her  fingers  fly  with  unaccustomed  haste  to  her  cheek  and  she  asks,  &quot;W  hat  must  I  say  to  you?&quot;  &quot;You  can  wish  me  the  same,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;We  have  a  holiday.  My  husband  gets  the  day  off,  too.&quot;  AM  glad  that  Mrs.  Cooper  hasnot  grown  reticent,  since  her  embarrass-  ment  at  Christmas,  in  speaking  to  me  of  holidays.  Soon  she  is  telling  me  how  her  children  are  looking  forward  to  Easter.  The  oldest  girl  is  preparing  already  for  her  part  in  a  church  play.  I  fuss  with  the  can  of  Enfamil,  help-  ing  Mrs.  Cooper  this  way  when  what  I     want  is  to  help  her  another  way.  &quot;Will  your  husband  come  to  the  play?&quot;  I  ask  casually.  &quot;I  am  not  sure,&quot;  while,  &quot;We  haven't  told  him  yet.&quot;  An-  &gt;  she  says.  After  a  other  little  while.  &quot;Because  it  seems  also  he  is  against  these  plays.&quot;  Then,  with  just  enough  of  a  pause  to  send  those  tones  to  my  heart,  she  says,  &quot;I  think  he  will  not  come.&quot;  Because  the  Judaeo-Christian  tradi-  tionwill  have  its  little  joke,  Passover  Week  sometimes  coincides  with  Easter  Week,  overlaying  it  like  a  reproach.  It  does  the  year  Mrs.  Cooper  is  with  us.  First,  Good  Friday,  then  in  a  few  days  is  the  first  day  of  Passover.  &quot;This  year,&quot;  my  husband  says,  &quot;be-  cause  of  Susie,  to  celebrate  her  first  year  with  us,  I  want  us  to  put  a  mezuzah  outside  our  door  before  Passover.&quot;  &quot;I'm  not  in  favor.&quot;  I  manage  to  say  it  quietly.  &quot;You  don't  understand  enough  about  &quot;  my  husband  says.  &quot;I  understand  that  much.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  know  what  a  mezuzah  is?  Do  you  know  what's  in  it?&quot;  Taking  my  silence  as  an  admission  of  ignorance,  my  husband  produces  a  Bible.  &quot;Deuteron-  omy,&quot;  he  says.  He  reads:  &quot;Hear,  O  Israel:  The  Lord  our  God,  the  Lord  is  one.  And  thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  might.  And  these  words,  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  shall  be  upon  thy  heart:  And  thou  shalt  teach  them  diligently  unto  thy  children,  and  shalttalk  of  them  when  thou  sittest  in  thy  house,  and  when  thou  walkest  by  the  way,and  when  thou  liest  down,  and  when  thou  risest  up.  ...&quot;  it,  All  this  and  more  is  written  on  a  parch-  ment  that  is  rolled  up  tight  and  fitted  into  the  metal  or  wooden  mezuzah,  which  is  no  more  than  two  inches  high  and  less  than  half  an  inch  across  and  is  " b"mounted  on  a  base  for  fastening  to  the  doorframe.  My  husband  finishes  his  reading.  &quot;And  thou  shalt  write  them  upon  the  door  posts  of  thine  house,  and  upon  thy  gates:  That  your  days  may  be  multiplied,  and  the  days  of  your  children,  upon  the  land  which  the  Lord  swore  unto  your  fathers  to  give  them,  as  the  days  of  the  heavens  upon  the  earth.&quot;  The  words  might  move  me  if  I  al-  lowed  them  to,  but  I  will  not  allow  them  to.  My  husband  closes  the  Bible  and  asks,  &quot;What  did  your  family  observe?  What  was  Passover  like?&quot;  &quot;My  grandfather  sat  on  a  pillow,  and  I  was  the  youngest,  so  I  found  the  matzos  and  he  gave  me  money.&quot;  &quot;No  questions?  No  answers?&quot;  &quot;Just  one.  I  would  ask  my  grand-  father,  'Where  is  my  prize?&quot;  And  he  would  laugh  and  give  me  money.&quot;  &quot;Is  that  all?&quot;  my  husband  asks.  &quot;That  was  a  very  nice  ceremony  in  itself,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;And  I  remember  it  with  pleasure,  and  my  grandfather  with  love!&quot;  &quot;But  besides  the  food,  besides  the  children's  game.  Didn't  your  grand-  parents  observe  anything?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  remember.&quot;  &quot;You  sat  at  their  table  for  eighteen  years!&quot;  &quot;Well,  my  grandmother  lit  Friday-  night  candles,  and  that  was  something  I  think  she  did  all  her  life.  But  she  did  it  by  herself,  in  the  breakfast  room.&quot;  &quot;Didn't  they  go  to  a  synagogue?&quot;  &quot;My  grandmother  did.  My  grand-  father  did,  too,  but  then  I  remember  he  stopped.  He'd  be  home  on  holidays,  not  at  the  services.&quot;  &quot;Your  parents  didn't  tell  you  any-  thing?&quot;  &quot;My  parents  were  the  next  genera-  tion,&quot;I  say.  &quot;And  I'm  the  generation  after  that.  We  evolved,&quot;  I  say-and  luckily  that  is  also  humor  between  my  husband  and  me.  But  my  husband  rubs  his  head.  It's  different  now,  and  not  so  funny,  be-  cause  this  year  we  have  Susan.  My  husband  was  born  in  Europe,  of  an  Orthodox  family.  He  is  neither  Or-  thodoxnor  Reform.  He  is  his  own  coun-  cil  of  rabbis,  selecting  as  he  goes.  He  has  plenty  to  say  about  the  influence  of  [REDACTED]  on  Jewishness,  Orthodox  or  not.  &quot;The  European  Jew,&quot;  my  hus-  band  says,  &quot;didn't  necessarily  feel  that  if  he  rose  in  the  social  or  economic  scale  he  had  to  stop  observing  his  Jewishness.  There  were  even  a  number  of  wealthy  and  prominent  German  Jews  who  were  strictly  observant.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  that  helped  them  a  lot!&quot;  This  is  as  close  as  I  come  to  speaking  of  the  unspeakable.  Somewhere  in  the  monstrous  testimony  I  have  read  about  concentration  camps  and  killings  are  buried  the  small,  intense  lives  of  my  husband's  family.  But  why  isit  I  am  more  bitter  than  my  husband  about  his  own  experiences?  And  why  should  my  bitterness  cut  the  wrong  way?  It  is  the  word  &quot;German&quot;  that  does  it  to  me.  My  soul  knots  in  hate.  &quot;German!&quot;  Even  the  softening,  pathetic  sound  of  &quot;Jew&quot;  that  follows  it  now  doesn't  help.  All  words  fail.  If  I  could  grasp  words,  I  would  come  on  words  that  would  jump  so  to  life  they  would  jump  into  my  heart  and  kill  me.  All  I  can  do  is  make  a  fantasy.  Somewhere  in  New  York  I  will  meet  a  smiling  German.  In  his  pocket  smile  the  best  export  accounts  in  the  city-he  is  from  the  land  of  scissors  and  knives  and  ground  glass.  Because  I  am  surprisingly  fair,  he  will  be  oh,  so  surprised  when  I  strike  at  him  with  all  my  might.  &quot;For  the  children'!  For  the  children'!&quot;  My  words  come  out  shrieks.  He  protests  it  was  his  duty  and,  besides,  he  didn't  know.  I  am  all  leaking,  dis-  solving.  How  can  amist  break  stone?  Once  we  exchange  words  it  is  hopeless;  the  words  of  the  eyewitness  consume  everything,  as  in  a  fire:  The  children  were  covered  with  sores.  ..  .  They  screamed  and  wept  all  night  in  the  emptyrooms  where  they  had  been  put.  ..  .  Then  the  police  would  go  up  and  the  children,  screaming  with  terror.  would  be  carried  kicking  and  struggling  to  the  court-  yard.  How  is  it  my  husband  doesn't  know  that  after  this  there  can  be  no  mezuzahs?  &quot;It's  too  painful  to  quarrel,&quot;  my  hus-  band  says.  He  puts  his  hands  on  my  shoulders,  his  forehead  against  mine.  &quot;'This  is  something  I  want  very  much.  And  you  feel  for  me.  I  know  you  feel  for  me  in  this.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  I  do,  of  course  I  do.&quot;  I  use  Mrs.  Cooper's  trick,  and  even  at  that  close  range  twist  my  head  elsewhere.  &quot;Only  that  particular  symbol-&quot;  &quot;No,  with  you  it's  all  the  symbols.&quot;  My  husband  drops  his  hands  from  my  shoulders.  &quot;You  don't  know  enough  about  them  to  discard  them.&quot;  I  don't  have  the  right  to  judge  them-that  is  what  I  feel  he  means.  Since  I  was  not  even  scorched  by  the  flames  of  their  futility.  As  he  was,  and  came  out  cursing  less  than  I.  &quot;But  besides  everything  else&quot;-I  take  hasty  shelter  in  practicalness-'&quot;a  mezuzah  is  ugly.  I  remember  that  ugly  tin  thing  nailed  to  the  door  of  my  grand-  mother's  room.  If  I  spend  three  weeks  picking  out  a  light  fixture  for  my  foyer,  why  should  I  have  something  so  ugly  on  my  door?&quot;  Then,  as  my  husband  answers,  I  see  that  this  shabby  attack  has  fixed  my  de-  feat,  because  he  is  immediately  reason-  able.  &quot;Now,  that's  something  else.  I  won't  argue  aesthetics  with  you.  The  outer  covering  is  of  no  importance.  I'll  find  something  attractive.&quot;  The  next  night  my  husband  brings  home  a  mezuzah  made  in  [REDACTED].  It  is  " b"a  narrow  green  rectangle,  twice  the  normal  size,  inlaid  with  mosaic  and  out-  lined  in  brass.  It  does  not  look  Jewish  to  me  at  all.  It  looks  foreign-a  strange  bit  of  green  enamel  and  brass.  &quot;I  don't  like  it,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  &quot;But  it's  only  the  idea  you  don't  like?&quot;  My  husband  smiles  teasingly.  &quot;In  looks,  you  at  least  relent?&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  look  bad,&quot;  I  admit.  &quot;Well,  that  is  the  first  step.&quot;  I  am  happy  to  see  the  mezuzah  disappear  in  his  dresser  drawer  before  we  go  in  to  our  dinner.  When  Mrs.  Cooper  comes  next  day,  she  asks,  &quot;What  have  you  on  your  door?&quot;  I  step  out  to  look,  and  at  first  have  the  impression  that  a  praying  mantis  has  somehow  hatched  out  of  season  high  on  our  doorway.  'Then  I  recognize  it.  &quot;Oh,  that's-&quot;  I  say.  &quot;That's...&quot;  I  find  I  cannot  explain  a  mezuzah  to  someone  who  has  never  heard  of  one.  While  Mrs.  Cooper  changes  her  clothes,  I  touch  the  mezuzah  to  see  if  it  will  fall  off.  But  my  husband  has  glued  it  firmly  to  the  metal  doorframe.  My  husband's  office  works  a  three-  quarter  day  on  Good  Friday.  I  ask  Mrs.  Cooper  if  she  would  like  time  off,  but  she  says  no,  her  husband  will  be  home  ahead  of  her  to  look  after  things.  I  have  the  impression  she  would  rather  be  here.  My  husband  comes  home  early,  be-  stowing  strangeness  on  the  rhythm  of  the  house  in  lieu  of  celebration.  I  kiss  him  and  put  away  his  hat.  &quot;Well,  that  was  a  nasty  thing  to  do.&quot;  I  say  it  lazily  and  with  a  smirk.  'The  lazy  tone  is  to  show  that  I  am  not  really  involved,  and  the  smirk  that  I  intend  to  swallow  it  down  like  bad  medicine.  He  will  have  his  way,  but  I  will  have  my  say-that's  all  I  mean.  My  say  will  be  humorous,  with  just  a  little  cut  to  it,  as  is  proper  between  husband  and  wife.  He  will  cut  back  a  little,  witha  grin,  and  after  Mrs.  Cooper  goes  we  will  have  our  peaceful  dinner.  The  conversation  will  mean-  der,  never  actually  pricking  sore  points,  but  winding  words  about  them,  mak-  ing  pads  and  cushions,  so  that  should  they  ever  bleed,  there,  already  softly  wrapped  around  them,  will  be  the  band-  ages  our  words  wove.  Weave  enough  of  these  bandages  and  nothing  will  ever  smash,  I  say.I  always  prepare  in  ad-  vance  a  last  line,  too,so  that  I  will  know  where  to  stop.  &quot;When  mezuzahs  last  in  the  doorway  bloomed,&quot;  I  will  say  to-  night.  And  then  I  expect  us  both  to  laugh.  But  where  has  he  been  all  day?  The  same  office,  the  same  thirty-minute  sub-  way  rideto  and  from  each  way,  the  ,  same  lunch  with  the  same  cronies.  ...  \nBut  he  has  travelled  somewhere  else  in  his  head.  &quot;Doesn't  anything  mean  any-  thing  to  you?&quot;&quot;  he  says,  and  walks  by  me  to  the  bedroom.  I  follow  witha  bandage,  but  it  slips  from  my  hand.  &quot;I  know  a  lot  of  women  who  would  have  taken  that  right  down!&quot;  It  is  something  of  a  shout,  to  my  surprise.  He  says  nothing.  &quot;I  left  it  up.  All  I  wanted  was  my  say.&quot;  He  says  nothing.  &quot;I  live  here,  too.  That's  my  door  also.&quot;  He  says  nothing.  &quot;And  I  don't  like  it!&quot;  I  hear  a  loud  smashing  of  glass.  It  brings  both  our  heads  up.  My  husband  is  the  first  to  understand.  &quot;Mrs.  Cooper  broke  a  bottle.&quot;  He  puts  his  arms  around  me  and  says,  &quot;Let's  not  quarrel  about  a  doorway.  Let's  not  quarrel  at  all,  but  especially  not  about  the  entrance  to  our  home.&quot;  I  lower  my  face  into  his  tie.  What's  a  mezuzah?  Let's  have  ten,  I  think,  so  long  as  nothing  will  smash.  Later,  I  reproach  myself.  I  am  in  the  living  room,  straightening  piles  of  magazines,  avoiding  both  kitchen  and  bedroom.  A  woman,  I  think,  is  the  one  creature  who  builds  satisfaction  of  the  pleasure  she  gets  from  giving  in.  What  might  the  world  be  if  women  would  continue  the  dialogue?  But  no,  they  must  give  in  and  be  satisfied,  Neverthe-  less,  I  don't  intend  to  take  back  what  I've  given  in  on  and  thereby  give  up  what  I've  gained.  I  am  aware  of  Mrs.  Cooper,  boiling  formula  in  the  kitchen,  and  of  my  baby,  registering  in  sleep  her  parents'  first  quarrel  since  her  birth.  &quot;What  must  I  say  to  you?&quot;  I  think  of  saying  to  my  daughter-Mrs.  Cooper's  words  come  naturally  to  my  mind.  I  go  to  the  kitchen  doorway  and  look  at  Mrs.  Cooper.  Her  face  indicates  deaf  and  dumb.  She  is  finishing  the  bottles.  When  Mrs.  Cooper  is  dressed  and  ready  to  leave,  she  looks  into  the  living  room.  &quot;I  am  saying  good  night.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  you  and  your  family  will  have  a  happy  Easter,&quot;  I  say,  smiling  for  her.  I  know  in  advance  that  Mrs.  Cooper  will  ask,  &quot;What  must  I  say  to  you?&quot;  This  time  she  asks  it  soberly,  and  this  time  my  husband,  who  has  heard,  comes  in  to  tell  Mrs.  Cooper  the  story  of  Pass-  over.  As  always  in  the  traditional  ver-  sion,  there  is  little  mention  of  Moses,  the  Jews  having  set  down  from  the  begin-  ning  not  the  tragedy  of  one  but  their  intuition  for  the  tragedy  of  many.  When  my  husband  leaves  us,  Mrs.  Cooper  takes  four  wrapped  candies  from  the  candy  bowl  on  thedesk,  holds  them  up  to  be  sure  I  see  her  taking  them,  and  puts  them  in  her  purse.  &quot;I  do  hope  everything  will  be  all  right,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  I  sav,  looking  at  the  magazines.  &quot;It  was  such  a  help  today.  I  " b'got  so  much  work  done.  Thank  you.&quot;  I  hear  that  she  is  motionless.  &quot;I  will  not  be  likethis  all  the  days  of  my  life.&quot;  It  is  a  cry  from  the  heart,  stunningly  articulated,  I  lift  my  head  from  the  magazines,  and  this  time  I  do  stare.  Not  be  like  what?  A  4a616d61696361n  without  a  servant?  A  wife  who  never  vacations?  An  exile?  A  baby  nurse?  A  woman  who  gives  in?  What  Mrs.  Cooper  might  not  want  to  be  flashes  up  in  a  lightning  jumble.&quot;I  am  going  to  find  a  church,&quot;  she  says,  and  strains  her  face  away  from  mine.  I  think  of  all  the  descriptions  of  God  I  have  ever  heard-that  He  is  jeal-  ous,  loving,  vengeful,  waiting,  teaching,  forgetful,  permissive,  broken-hearted,  asleep.  Mrs,  Cooper  and  I  wish  each  other  a  pleasant  weekend. '