 b"AT  the  end  of  summer,  along  the  line  A  that  marked  the  farthest  ad-  vance  of  the  tide,  there  lay  on  the  beach  the  ruin  of  an  enormous  fish  head.  It  was,  the  children  told  Ernest,  the  head  of  a  giant  tuna.  Partially  de-  composed,  battered,  consumed,  it  re-  vealed  imperfectly  its  ingenious  interior.  The  eyes,  however,  were  intact.  They  stood  out  desolately,  as  large  as  tennis  balls-perfect,  murky  globes  that  would  have  made  suitable  novelties  for  a  czar.  At  high  tide,  the  head  disappeared,  with-  drawn  by  the  rising  water,  slipping  and  tumbling  to  the  dim  bottom  of  the  bay.  Being  preoccupied-writing  picture  postcards,  for  example-not  once  did  Ernest  notice  its  submersion  nor,  since  the  tide  went  out  at  night  and  again  in  the  morning  before  he  awoke,  its  emergence.  The  children,  who  played  all  day  on  the  beach-the  boy  was  eight,  the  girl  ten-ignored  the  head.  &quot;Ig-  nored&quot;  was  not  quite  accurate,  Ernest  decided,  for  that  would  imply  an  act  of  will,  suggesting  the  head  was  grisly  or  putrescent  and  hence  something  to  be  avoided.  It  was,  rather,  that  the  head  had  ceased  to  bea  marvel  and  held  no  more  interest  for  them  than  a  grain  of  sand.  They  had  used  it  up.  Ernest  found  the  head  a  compelling  and  fabulous  attraction,  and  the  chil-  dren's  indifference  to  it  disturbed  him.  He  directed  their  attention  to  it,  indicat-  ing  its  decadent  wonders.  They  listened  impatiently,  rolling  their  eyes  like  play-  ers  in  a  silent  movie,  and  replied  that  prior  to  this  head  there  had  been  an  even  bigger  one,  which  had  vanished  several  days  before  Ernest  arrived  and  been  re-  placed  by  the  head  they  now  beheld.  Ernest  didn't  know  whether  to  believe  them.  Perhaps,  when  the  head  became  commonplace,  it  no  longer  appeared  as  immense  as  it  did  when  it  was  first  washed  ashore.  The  power  of  monsters,  like  the  spell  of  strange  summer  houses,  diminishes  with  each  visit.  It  seemed  un-  likely  that  two  great  fish  heads  should  land  one  after  the  other  on  this  beach.  But  it  might  not  have  been  coincidence;  the  currents  might,  in  fact,  be  so  pre-  cise  that  tuna  heads  cast  off  at  a  cer-  tain  point  and  being  of  certain  dimen-  sions  would  always  land  at  the  same  place.  One  would  have  thought,  then,  that  there  would  have  been  a  regular  succession  of  heads,  since  the  commer-  cial  fishermen  must  catch  a  good  many  large  tuna;  he  imagined  a  flotilla  of  fish  heads  bobbing  predictably  across  the  bay.  But  there  was  only  one,  return-  ing  daily,  ambiguous  and  implacable,  and  each  day  somewhat  the  worse  for  wear,  like  one's  face  each  morning  in  the  mirror.  In  time,  Ernest  found  it  wasn't  the  head  itself  that  engaged  him,  its  obvious  splendor  and  mystery,  but  the  chil-  dren's  attitude  to  it,  to  him.  He  had  sought  in  vain  to  enlist  them  as  allies  in  his  suit  of  their  mother.  He  had  met  her,  a  divorc\xc3\xa9e,  in  the  city  and  followed  her  to  the  shore,  where  a  narrow,  desti-  tute,  shell-strewn  garden  separated  their  rented  apartments.  The  children  called  him,  chanting,  &quot;old  persistent  Mr.  Ernest  McErnest.&quot;  The  head  was,  in  a  way,  his  gift  to  them,  but  they  already  had  had  one-bigger,  and  there-  fore  better.  This  lesser  head  was  the  ominous,  dwindling  emblem  of  his  unsuccess.  Despite  his  setback  with  the  children,  Er-  nest  knew  that  at  bot-  tom  he  had  charm.  The  many  picture  postcards  addressed  to  various  women  testified  to  this.  They  all  had  the  same  view-the  empty,  pol-  ished,  and  disquieting  interior  of  a  seafood  restaurant  that  bespoke  some  equivocal  disaster  in  the  streets-and  they  all  had,  more  or  less,  the same  earnest  message.  The  postcards  served  to  appease  the  infrequent  spasms  of  guilt  Ernest  suffered  from  his  liai-  sons.  He  was  conscious  of  a  responsibility  to  somehow  complete  his  lovers'  lives,  even  if  it  meant  no  more  than  in-  forming  them  fitfully  of  his  dingy  progress.  He  and  they  had  met  on  each  occasion  like  two  backstrokers  colliding  head  to  head,  but  he  felt  he  had  incurred  a  " b"debt  that  could  not  be  paid  it?  by  either  an  apology  or  si-  P4  lence.  The  incident  of  the  sea  snails  on  Ernest's  last  day  at  theshore,  while  extending  the  distress  brought  upon  him  by  the  fish  head,  had  more  to  do,  Ernest  saw,with  his  funda-  mental  guilt  and,  ultimately,  with  his  perpetual  failureto  make  amends  or  to  let  go.  The  children  had  collected  the  snails  and  put  them  in  cans  of  sea  water  on  the  bal-  cony  of  their  apartment.  The  76  *  a#/0  snails  were  heaped  in  the  cans  A  n  y  as  though  for  sale;  Ernest  had  Ld  seen  similar  shellfish  in  barrels  in  Greek  markets.  Since  he  never  saw  the  snails  move,  Ernest  did  not  know  whether  they  were  dead  or  alive.  He  had  considered  asking  the  children,  but  refrained;  it  was  a  cruel  question,  absurd.  After  all,  what  did  one  feed  snails,  anyway?  'The  snails  welfare  seemed  of  no  concern  to  the  children.  When  we  are  young,  Ernest  reflected,  we  are  hunters.  Hunters  must  not  be  held  accountable;  their  joy  and  dominion  end  with  the  death  or  capture  of  their  quarry.  'They  are  not  judges,  nor  are  they  caretakers.  If  they  were,  they  would  not  be  able  to  hunt.  The  sea  water  in  the  cans  had  gradu-  ally  evaporated,  Ernest  observed,  and  the  snails  had  been  forsaken.  They  might  have  been  hollow  shells.  Look-  ing  at  them,  Ernest  recalled  the  casual-  ties  of  his  childhood:  the  baby  alligator  that  had  been  left  one  afternoon  in  the  summer  sun  and  had  shrivelled  up  like  a  mummy;  the  finches  that  had  never  sung  in  his  hearing-at  the  time,  he  hadhad  a  fantasy  that  they  sang  with  a  thrill  and  sweetness  when  no  one  was  home-but  only  mutely  huddled  on  the  trapeze  at  the  top  of  their  cage.  'The  finches  had  frozen  in  the  winter  nights  and  dropped,  one  by  one,  from  their  perches,  the  sound  of  their  falls  too  faint-as  light  as  snow-to  awaken  him  so  that  he  might,  perhaps,  warm  them  back  to  life  between  his  palms.  When  he  found  the  birds  in  the  morning,  not  even  the  radiator  could  revive  them;  he  flushed  them  down  the  toilet.  There  were,  too,  the  tropical  fish  he  would  discover  floating  on  the  surface  of  their  tank,  horribly  rent  by  one  of  their  num-  ber-which  one?  -in  the  dark  while  he  slept.  On  the  afternoon  that  they  were to  leave  for  the  city,  Ernest  took  the  cans  of  snails  and  dumped  them  back  in  the  bay.  He  stood  up  to  his  knees  in  the  water  and  regarded  the  disorderly  heap  of  snails  by  his  toes.  They  still  gave  no  sign  of  life.  How  light  they  looked!  They  had  seemed  darker  when  crowded  in  the  cans.  He  reached  underwater  and  carefully  set  each  one  upright.  One  could  move  them  about  like  pieces  on  a  chessboard.  In  the  center  of  every  shell,  where  the  spiral  design  had  its  origin,  was  a  pale,  somehow  accusatory  eve.  Ernest  towered  above  the  snails  that  he  had  arrayed  on  the  sandy  bottom,  feel-  ing  Olympian,  expecting  some  move-  ment,  an  acknowledgment  of  his  char-  ity.  There  was  none.  Several  dozen  eyes  returned  his  gaze,  and  he  left  un-  rewarded.  The  children  were  waiting  in  the  apartment,  sitting  on  suitcases  like  refu-  gees  and  eating  apricots.  He  felt  it  was  a  scene  similar  to  that  on  the  post-  cards;  he  had  missed  yet  another  disas-  ter.  Ernest  thought  they  might  have  noticed  that  the  snails  were  gone  and  ask  about  them,  but  they  didn't.  Their  mother  was  in  the  kitchen  washing  the  dishes  for  the  last  time,  putting  them  in  the  plastic  rack  to  dry.  The  dishes  would  not,  Ernest  reflected,  be  used  again  un-  til  next  summer.  The  leap  forward  in  time  irritated  him.  Ernest  explored  old  summers,  their  mislaid  populations,  in  his  mind.  He  heard,  as  though  from  that  momentous  distance,  the  children  telling  him  to  hurry  up  and  go  to  his  apartment  and  pack  orthey  would  miss  the  plane.  He  stared  at  them  for  an  instant;  they  appeared  to  be  strangers,  chained  to  the  suitcases  like  monkeys  to  barrel  organs.  He  told  them  to  pipe  down.  &quot;I'm  just  a  little  boy,  but  I'm  not  scared  of  you,  Ernest,&quot;  said  the  boy,  reasonably.  Er-  nest  went  out  on  the  balcony.  &quot;I'm  not  scared  of  you,&quot;  the  boy  called  through  the  screen  door.  Ernest  looked  down  to  thespot  where  he  had  liberated  the  snails,  wondering  if,  now  that  he  had  gone,  they  were  fanning  out,  marching  silently,  vagrantly  to  sea.  He  had  often  bestowed  such  small,  indifferent  gifts  of  love,  interest,  and  mercy;  sometimes  he  had  been  reward-  edwith  a  sympathetic  movement,  at  other  times,  as  in  the  case  of  the  snails,  with  what  he  considered  a  reproach.  He  went  heavily  into  the  kitchen.  The  mother  handed  him  an  apricot.  He  told  her  about  the  snails  and  his  disappoint-  ment;  perhaps  if  the  snails  wouldn't  pay  " b"him  back  he  might  at  least  gain  her  pity.  She  told  him  to  eat  another  apricot,  a  chocolate  pudding,  a  Frutana;  they  couldn't  take  all  this  stuff  back  on  the  plane.  He  felt,  obscurely,  that  they  were  all  in  some  kind  of  peril  and  were  light-  ening  a  sinking  boat.  He  was  becoming  a  martyr,  Ernest  thought-the  martyr-  dom  of  the  snails.  Later,  as  he  carried  the  bags  down  the  stairs,  helooked  again  at  the  beach.  The  water  was  about  to  reclaim  the  head.  There  wasn't  enough  left  of  it  to  stink.  On  the  flight  back  to  the  city,  Ernest  kept  expecting  the  children  to  inquire  about  their  snails,  to  remember  that  they  had  left  them  behind.  Children  always  wanted  to  take  animals  home  from  the  country  and  had  to  be  cleverly  dissuad-  ed.  Ernest  realized  that  he  had  prepared  a  persuasive  little  speech.  But  they  didn't  ask,  and  he  began  to  feel  that  their  si-  lence  was  unnatural.  Did  they  know  that  the  snails  were  dead,  that  they  had,  indeed,  killed  them?  Were  they  feeling  the  first  gripof  anxiety?  He  morosely  played  Battleship  with  the  boy,  who  was  sitting  beside  him.  He  had  intended  to  lose  by  a  narrow  margin,  but  he  became  aware  that  he  was  playing  as  hard  as  he  could,  almost  as  if  his  life  depended  upon  his  winning.  He  beat  the  boy  bad-  ly,  but  there  was  no  satisfaction  in  it;  children  accept  defeat  by  grownups.  Ernest  tilted  his  seat  back  and  announced  that  he  was  going  to  take  anap.  The  girl  told  him  that  was  &quot;a  big  deal.&quot;  The  children  hadn't  forgotten  the  snails.  They  had  seen  him  from  the  balcony,  in  his  ponderous,  clumsy,  and  pitiable  act  of  self-gratification,  and  had  forgiv-  en  him.  Was  that,  Ernest  thought,  my  absolution?  [REDACTED]  morning,  several  weeks  later,  Ernest  awoke  in  the  mother's  apartment  in  the  city,  where  he  had  spent  the  night  for  the  first  time.  She  was  no  longer  beside  him.  He  didn't  re-  member  her  arising;  she  must  have  got  up  to  fix  the  children's  breakfast.  It  was  a  small  apartment-two  rooms:  the  liv-  ing  room,  where  they  had  slept  on  a  second-hand  Castro,  and  the  children's  bedroom,  which  connected  with  the  kitchenette.  Above  the  boy's  bed,  at-  tached  to  the  wall  with  Scotch  Tape,  was  a  menu  elaborately  autographed  by  Cassius  Clay.  &quot;Good  Luck,&quot;  it  said;  Ernest  had  got  it  for  the  boy  one  rainy  morning  in  San  Francisco.  From  where  he  lay,  the  covers  up  about  his  neck,  Ernest  could  see  the  children  seated  at  the  counter  eating  cereal  out  of  enamel  mugs.  Wheat  Honeys!  Sugar  Pops!  Corn  Kix!  He  didn't  recognize  any  of  the  cereals  these days.  It  made  him  melancholy  out  of  all  proportion.  Ernest  didn't  know  whether  he  should  pretend  to  be  sleeping.  He  didn't  want  to  be  conspicuous,  to  em-  barrass  the  children.  He  closed  his  eyes  to  slits,  as  he  had  done  when  he  was  a  child,  and  watched  them.  From  time  to  time,  while  he  feigned  sleep,  they  got  up  from  the  counter  and  walked  past  the  Castro,  in  and  out  of  the  bath-  room-he  could  hear  them  demonically  brushing  their  teeth-where  the  light  burned  all  night  to  keep  the  cockroaches  in  the  walls,  and  then  to  the  table  be-  yond  him,  looking  for  their  notebooks.  He  observed,  with  satisfaction,  that  notebook  covers  hadn't  changed;  they  were  still  darkly  marbled,  intimating  a  permanence  and  a  grandeur,  like  the  walls  of  certain  men's  rooms.  The  children  passed  him  without  a  glance  or  a  word;  they  were  ignoring   him.  He  opened  his  eyes  wide  in  protest,  turned  noisily  over  and  back  again.  The  girl  was  showing  her  mother  the  cos-  tume  she  was  going  to  wear  on  Hal-  loween.  To  Ernest  it  looked  like  an  ev-  eryday  black  dress,  but  too  severe  and  sombre  for  a  child.  &quot;What's  thet  sup-  posed  to  be?&quot;  the  boy  asked.  &quot;I'm  a  mentally  ill  secretary,&quot;  the  girl  said,  holding  the  dress  in  front  of  her.  Ernest  couldn't  decide  whether  she  was  cute  or  appalling.  He  felt  at  a  disadvantage,  lying  so  close  to  the  floor,  only  his  head  showing-unshaven  and  with  long,  un-  kempt,  graying  hair  that  always  seemed  more  soiled  than  distinguished.  &quot;Why?&quot;  Ernest  asked.  No  one  paid  him  the  least  attention.  He  felt  he  was  in  a  kind  of  juvenile  limbo,  as  though  he  had  been  killed  in  Cops-and-Robbers.  &quot;Why?&quot;  he  pleaded,  too  loudly.  &quot;What  am  I  going  to  be,  Ma?&quot;  the  boy  asked.  Er-  nest  recalled  being  awakened  in  another  apartment  by  a  little  boy  crashing  his  tricycle  into  the  bed.  &quot;Hello,  Richard,&quot;  that  benign  child  had  said.  Now  their  mother  was  handing  them  their  school  lunch.  'They  were  at  the  door  in  their  military  berets,  leaving.  Ernest  felt  he  was  watching  a  film:  the  actors  couldn'trespond,  stop,  turn,  ex-  plain,  go  back.  He  wasn't  being  ignored,  he  realized;  they  were  indifferent  to  him.  He  had  ceased  to  be  a  marvel-  if,  indeed,  he  had  ever  been  one.  He  found  himself,  against  his  precepts,  wondering  how  the  others  before  him  had  stacked  up-their  father.  Ernest  " b"   noticed  a  great,  scarred  box,  as  long  as  a  child's  coffin,  across  the  room.  It  was  the  toy  chest.  Lying  across  it  was  the  necktie  he  had  worn  the  previous  eve-  ning.  It  had  been  abandoned  by  an-  other  woman's  former  husband,  and  Ernest  had  taken  it  from  her  apart-  ment.  There  had  been  a  bunch  of  his,  the  husband's,  ties  on  a  hatrack,  all  tan-  gled  up  like  Medusa's  hair.  Ernest  rolled  over  on  his  back.  He  was  less  oppressed  when  he  could  see  the  full,  empty  height  of  the  room.  He  noticed  that  the  living  room  was  full  of,  graced  with,  light.  The  upper  halves  of  the  windows  were  covered  with  a  translucent  4a6170616eese  paper  in  which  real  autumn  leaves  were  impris-  oned,  perpetually  falling.  He  didn't  know  they  had  maples  in  4a6170616e-wil-  lows,  certainly,  weeping  willows.  He  imagined  4a6170616eese  children  walking  gravely  through  the  woods  in  a  great,  silent  crowd,  at  autumn,  with  burlap  sacks  over  their  shoulders,  bending  down,  sorting  out  the  maple  leaves,  pick-  ing  them  up,  and  gently  stuffing  them  into  their  sacks.  Somewhere,  there  were  scales,  perhaps  in  a  clearing,  where  a  kind,  reasonable  man-Ernest  saw  himself  in  blue  Oriental  pajamas-  weighed  the  sacks  and  gave  each  child  a  coin.  They  bobbed  in  a  sort  of  bow  before  him,  averting  their  eyes,  holding  their  palms  up  trustingly.  Ernest  let  his  eyes  close,  shutting  out  the  room.  He  wished  he  could  be  floated  free  of  this  exposition  of  his  mutilated  age,  his  anonymity,  his  furious  sorrow,  and  be  sucked  back  into  the  shelving  declivity  of  sleep. "