 b"WHEN  I  recently  launched  my-  self  on  the  long  voyage  through  &quot;Remembrance  of  Things  Past,&quot;  I  was  startled  and  pleased  to  find,  within  the  first  twenty  pages,  that  one  of  the  social  relationships  depicted  by  Proust  paralleled  one  I  remember  from  my  own  childhood.  I  refer  to  the  re-  lationship  between  M.  Swann  and  Proust's  narrator's  family.  The  family  welcomed  M.  Swann  as  a  regular  visitor  and  a  middle-class  equal,  al-  though  it  felt  him  to  be  imperfectly  gen-  teel.  Its  own  ignorance  of  the  world  of  fashion,  together  with  M.  Swann's  re-  serve  and  discretion,  kept  it  from  know-  ing  that  he  led  a  double  life,  in  the  other  half  of  which  he  was  &quot;one  of  the  smart-  est  members  of  the  Jockey  Club,  a  par-  ticular  friend  of  the  Comte  de  [REDACTED]  and  of  the  Prince  of  [REDACTED],  and  one  of  the  men  most  sought  after  in  the  aristocratic  world  of  the  Faubourg  Saint-Ger-  main.&quot;  In  Caldwell,  [REDACTED],  in  the  nineteen-  twenties  and  early  thirties,  my  family's  relationship  with  our  bootlegger  was  like  that.  The  locale  afforded  no  Jockey  Clubs,  comtes,  princes,  or  faubourgs,  but  Mr.  Diller,  as  I  shall  call  him,  led  a  double  life,  the  non-  bootlegging  half  of  which  long  remained  unknown-indeed,  in-  conceivable-to  us,  though  in  his  bootlegger  role  he  was  a  welcome  and  regular  visitor  who  could  be  treated  as  an  equal,  thus  providing  us  with  the  dividend  of  feeling  unusually  and  virtuously  democratic.  He  came  to  the  back  door,  to  be  sure,  in  con-  trast  with  the  milkman,  who  left  his  product  at  our  frontdoor,  but  since  our  house  was  on  a  corner,  the  back  door  was  quite  as  conspicuous  as  the  front,  and  anyway  the  choice  was  his  alone,  a  result  of  his  feeling  for  decorum.  That  feeling  was  strong  in  him.  Whenever  any  of  us  encountered  him  in  the  business  district  or  elsewhere  with  others  present,  he  took  care  not  to  glance  in  our  direction  until  we  spoke.  We  al-  ways  did  speak.  When  he  encountered  my  mother,  he  responded  in  a  way  that  would  almost  have  been  appropriate  to  M.  Swann,  though  it  may  have  been  a  bit  closer  to  the  style  of  such  other  figures  of  French  literature  as  d'Ar-  tagnan  and  de  Bergerac;  he  removed     his  hat  with  a  flourish,  swept  it  in  a  wide  are  out  and  down  across  his  knees,  and  accompanied  this  with  a  deep  bow.  A  very  tall  man,  he  had  long,  lank  black  hair,  which  he  combed  straight  back,  and  which,  when  he  made  that  deep  bow,  sometimes  flopped  forward.  My  earliest  memory  of  him  is  of  an  occasion  when  I  must  havebeen  about  five  years  old  andwas  walking  along  the  street  with  my  mother.  I  never  before  had  been  bowed  to,  and  the  sudden  sweep  in  my  direction  of  that  lofty  head  and  flying  hair  terrified  me.  I  howled.  Among  the  various  hasty  measures  he  took  to  quiet  me  was  a  dash  into  a  nearby  store  and  a  return  with  a  handful  of  licorice  whips,  which  induced  the  first  diminution  in  the  noise  I  was  making  and  gradually  brought  about  its  cessation.  'This  success  led  to  his  form-  ing  the  habit  of  bringing  me  penny  candy  every  time  he  made  a  delivery  to  our  house.  I  looked  forward  to  his  visits.  They  were,  I  think,  approximately  weekly.  This  was  not  because  my  parents  drank  so  very  much  or  entertained  lavishly;  true,  they  were,  for  Caldwell,  more  or  less  flaming  youth,  but  not  fembe,  in  the  current,  expense-ac-  count-restaurant  sense  of  that  term.  Although  we  did  little  formal  en-  tertaining,  our  kitchen  was  an  oasis  for  a  num-  ber  of  poor  creatures  burdened  with  dry  wives.  There  were  three  or  four  husbands  who  placed  their  own  orders  with  Mr.  Diller  and  kept  the  bottles  in  our  pantry,  along  with  lit-  tle  packets  of  Sen-  Sen.  I  never  was  per-  mitted  to  intrude  on  the  gatherings  of  such  visitors,  but  I  re-  member  being  in  the  front  of  the  house  and  hearing  the  sounds  of  many  a  con-  vivial  late-afternoon  get-together  in  the  back,  though  those  sounds  never  at-  tained  anything  like  the  cacophony  I  have  met  at  similar  gatherings  at  the  same  hour  in  more  recent  times.  Mr.  Diller  made  the  conviviality  pos-  sible  but  took  no  part  in  it.  My  parents  used  to  say  of  him  that  he  never  touched  a  drop,  and  to  the  best  of  my  knowledge  this  was  true.  When,  a  couple  of  decades  later,  I  did  some  reading  in  the  social  his-  tory  of  that  period  and  learned  of  the  frequency  with  which  consumers  of  bootlegged  beverages  suffered  blindness  " b"and  other  undesirable  consequences,  it  occurred  to  me  that  his  abstemiousness  might  have  been  reason  for  a  certain  suspicion  in  his  customers.  I  never  heard  anyone  express  doubts.  He  inspired  only  faith  in  his  product,  presumably  because  he  never  sold  anything  that  damaged  his  customers  to  an  extent  greater  than  anticipated.  The  fact  that  he  kept  secret  his  source  of  supply,  his  base  of  operations,  his  very  place  of  residence  did  not  detract  from  his  reputation  for  trustworthiness.  At  one  time  or  another,  he  had  been  ob-  served  arriving  in  Caldwell  in  his  well-  laden  Model  T  via  the  roads  from  every  direction.  Everyone  was  curious,  but  no  one  questioned  him.  That  would  have  been  a  breach  of  the  code  not  a  great  deal  less  outrageous  than  informing  against  him  to  the  town  constable,  who  would  have  found  the  information  most  offensive.  'The  favorite  speculation  was  that  Mr.  Diller  had  his  residence  and  distillery  in  an  ideal  hideaway  in  one  of  the  many  ghost  towns  scattered  over  both  the  forested  mountains  to  our  north  and  the  high  desert  to  our  south.  T  was  I  who  stumbled  on  the  secret  he  had  managed  to  keep-at  least  from  my  family  and  everyone  they  knew-for  more  than  eight  years.  By  1930,  the  year  I  was  thirteen,  some  of  the  roads  in  our  valley  had  been  paved  and  others  graded  and  gravelled,  and  automobile  traffic  between  Caldwell  and  Boise,  thirty  miles  to  the  east,  was  common  enough  to  make  hitchhiking  possible.  I  had  two  hospitable  aunts  in  Boise  and  no  difficulty  in  obtaining  my  parents'  permission  to  hitchhike  thither  for  such  occasions  as  Sunday  dinners.  One  hot  Sunday  evening  that  summer,  on  my  wayhome  from  such  a  visit,  a  driver  dropped  me  at  the  eastern  edge  of  Nampa,  a  town  nine  miles  east  of  Caldwell,  and  I  took  ashort  cut  through  the  outskirts  to  the  western  edge,  be-  cause  one  did  not  hitch  rides  in  the  mid-  dle  of  a  town.  It  was  the  first  time  I  ever  had  been  afoot  in  Nampa,  having  pre-  viously  ridden  straight  through.  From  the  Caldwell  point  of  view,  Nampa,  with  its  population  of  eight  thousand-almost  twice  ours-was  low  class.  'The  chief  reason  for  its  greater  size  was  that  the  town  harbored  a  rail-  road  yard,  where  freight  cars  were  built  and  repaired;  it  was  whispered  in  Cald-  well,  with  horror  and  less  than  full  be-  lief,  that  there  was  a  labor  union  in  Nampa.  Caldwell's  tone  was  set  by  the  College  of  [REDACTED],  a  private  Presbyterian  institution  held  in  high  esteem  within  our  city  limits.  Nampa's  railroad  yard " b"was  on  its  western  edge,  aspear  pointed  in  our  direction,  and  our  college  was  on  our  eastern  edge,  a  rampart  against  the  barbarian.  My  family  did  not  know,  in  _|  the  Proustian  or  any  other  sense,  anyone  J  in  Nampa.  My  short  cut  took  me  through  one  of  the  poorest  districts,  and  every  other  block  or  so  featured,  in  the  form  of  a  small  frame  building,  a  church  of  one  of  the  many  fundamentalist  sects  that  pro-  liferated  in  our  valley  in  those  times.  One  church  attracted  my  attention,  be-  cause  not  only  had  it  been  recently  painted,  an  unusual  circumstance  in  it-  self,  but  its  trim  was  a  different  color  from  the  rest  of  the  building,  and  there  was  a  small,  well-tended  plot  of  grass  between  the  front  of  the  church  and  the  sidewalk.  Services  were  in  prog-  ress,  and  the  door  stoodopen.  'The  preacher  was  in  full  cry.  I  recog-  nized  his  voice.  Incredulous,  horrified,  and  fascinated,  I  tooka  few  steps  up  the  walk  toward  the  open  door  to  make  quite  sure.  The  preacher  wasMr.  Diller.  Mine  was  not  a  churchgoing  family,  although  in  my  younger  days  I  occasion-  ally  had  been  packed  off  to  a  Congrega-  tionalist  Sunday  school,  so  we  had  no  particular  reason  to  set  unusually  high  standards  for  men  of  the  cloth.  Still,  the  preacher-bootlegger  combination  seemed  notonly  wildly  unlikely  but  also  shocking.  I  could  scarcely  wait  to  get  home  and  divulge  what  I  had  discov-  ered.  My  father  gave  my  news  the  same  reception  that  Proust's  narrator's  great-  aunt  gave  a  report  that  M.  Swann  had  been  seen  dining  with  a  princess.  (&quot;A  pretty  sort  of  princess,&quot;  the  great-aunt  said,  with  serene  irony;  &quot;I  know  them,&quot;)  &quot;Some  preacher  old  Diller  would  make,&quot;  said  my  father.  &quot;You've  been  seeing  things,  boy.&quot;  My  mother's  reaction  was  similar,  and  I  was  so  indignant  that  I  determined  never  to  try  to  tell  anyone  else  what  I  had  seen.  I  might  have  come  to  doubt  my  eyes  and  have  had  to  go  back  for  an-  other  look  some  Sunday  had  I  not  been  at  home  alone  the  next  day  when  Mr.  Dil-  ler  called,  ahead  of  schedule.  When  I  realized  that  it  was  he  at  the  back  door  and  that  I  was  alone  in  the  house,  I  was  suddenly  afraid  that  he  might  take  measures  to  insure  my  silence.  I  had  stood  for  several  moments  quite  close  to  the  open  door  of  the  church,  and  felt  certain  that  he  had  seen  and  recognized  me.  My  fear  proved  groundless.  For  eight  years,  it  had  been  his  habit  to  offer  me  penny  candy  when  he  found  me  at  home,  and  for  several  of  those  years " b'had  made  it  a  point  to  be  at  home  when  he  arrived.  Lately,  however,  penny  candy  had  become  less  important  to  me,  and  I  had  felt  little  regret  if  I  missed  him.  This  time,  he  offered  me  two  whole  candy  bars,  one  of  them  a  ten-  center.  I  accepted  them.  I  had  lavished  ten-cent  bars  on  myself  only  once  or  twice;  they  were  rare  and  splendid  lux-  uries.  I  could  not  hope  to  earn  the  bribe,  having  already  done  my  unsuccessful  bestto  tell  all,  but  I  was  too  interested  in  those  bars  to  give  thought  to  the  ethics  of  the  matter.  He  continued  to  bring  me  candy  bars  right  up  to  the  time  of  repeal  of  the  pro-  hibition  amendment,  whereupon  he  dis-  appeared  from  our  ken.  Not  until  many  years  later,  when  I  happened  to  remem-  ber  him,  did  I  realize  that  I  had  no  inkling  of  an  answer  to  the  most  inter-  esting  question  about  him-I  would  never  know  whether  his  church  was  the  perfect  blind  for  his  bootlegging  or  his  bootlegging  a  means  of  supporting  his  church.'