 b"HEnrRy  MackIE,  Edward  Asher,  H  and  Howard  Ettle  braved  a  rainstorm  to  demonstrate  against  the  human  condition  on  Wednesday,  September  25th  (and  Marie,  you  should  have  used  waterproof  paint;  the  signs  were  a  mess  after  half  an  hour).  They  began  at  St.  John  the  Precursor,  on  Sixty-fifth  Street,  at  1:30  [REDACTED],  picketing  with  signs  bearing  the  slogans  &quot;Max  piEs!,&quot;  &quot;THE  BODY  Is  bisoustT!,&quot;  &quot;aBaxpox  Love!,&quot;  and  &quot;COGITO  ERGO  NOTHING!&quot;  and  handing  out  announcements  of  Henry  Mackie's  lecture  at  the  Plamor  Lanes  the  next  evening.  There  was  much  in-  terest  among  bystanders  in  the  vicinity  of  the  church.  A  man  who  said  his  name  was  William  Rochester  came  up  to  give  encouragement;  ''That's  the  wey!&quot;  he  said.  At  about  one-fifty,  a  fat,  richly  dressed  beadle  emerged  from  the  church  to  dispute  our  right  to  picket.  He  had  dewlaps  that  shook  unpleasantly  and,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  did  not  look  like  a  good  man.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;now  move  on,  you  have  to  move  along,  you  can't  picket  us!&quot;  He  said  that  the  church  had  never  been  picketed,  that  it  could  not  be  pick-  eted  without  its  permission,  that  it  owned  the  sidewalk,  and  that  he  was  going  to  call  the  police.  Henry  Mackie,  Edward  Asher,  and  Howard  Ettle  had  already  checked  with  the  police,  who  informed  us  that  we  were  within  our  constitutional  rights,  and  we  confirmed  this  by  giving  him  the  name  of  the  officer  we  had  talked  with  at  Police  Head-  quarters.  The  beadle  was  intensely  irri-  tated  at  this  and  stormed  back  inside  the  church  to  report  to  someone  higher  up.  Henry  Mackie  said,  &quot;Well,  get  ready  for  the  lightning  bolt,&quot;  and  Ed-  ward  Asher  and  Howard  Ettle  laughed.  Interest  in  the  demonstration  among  walkers  on  Sixty-fifth  Street  increased  and  a  number  of  people  accepted  our  leaflet  and  began  to  ask  the  pickets  questions,  such  as  &quot;What  do  you  mean?&quot;  and  &quot;Were  you  young  men  raised  in  the  church?&quot;  The  pickets  re-  plied  to  these  questions  quietly  but  firm-  ly  and  in  as  much  detail  as  casual  passers-  by  could  be  expected  to  be  interested  in.  Some  of  the  walkers  made  taunting  re-  marks-&quot;Cogito  ergo  your  old  man&quot;  is  one  I  remember-but  the  demeanor  of  the  pickets  was  exemplary  at  all  times,  even  later,  when,  as  Henry  Mackie  put  it,  &quot;things  began  to  get  a  little  rough.&quot;  (Marie,  you  would  have  been  proud  of  us.)  People  who  care  about  the  rights  of  pickets  should  realize  that  these  rights  are  threatened  mostly  notby  the  police,  who  generally  do  not  molest  you  if  you  have  gone  through  the  appropriate  bureaucratic  procedures,  but  by  in-  dividuals  who  come  up  to  you  and  try  to  pull  your  sign  out  of  your  hands  or,  in  one  case,  spit  at  you.  The  man  who  did  the  latter  was,  surprisingly,  very  well  dressed.  What  could  be  happening  within  an  individual  like  that?  He  didn't  even  ask  questions  as  to  the  nature  and  purpose  of  the  demonstration,  just  spat  and  walked  away.  He  didn't  say  a  word.  We  wondered  about  him.  At  about  2  [REDACTED],  a  very  high-up  offi-  cial  in  a  black  clerical  suit  emerged  from  the  church  and  asked  us  if  we  had  ever  heard  of  Kierkegaard.  It  was  raining  on  him,  just  as  it  was  on  the  pickets,  but  he  didn't  seem  to  mind.  &quot;This  demonstra-  tion  displays  a  Kierkegaardian  spirit  which  I  understand,&quot;  he  said,  and  then  requested  that  we  transfer  our  opera-  tions  to  some  other  place.  Henry  Mackie  had  a  very  interesting  discussion  of  about  ten  minutes'duration  with  this  official,  during  which  photographs  were  taken  by  the  New  York  Post,  Newsweek,  and  C.B.S.  Television  whom  Henry  Mackie  had  alerted  prior  to  the  demonstration.  'The  photographers  made  the  churchman  a  little  nervous,  but  you  have  to  hand  it  to  him,  he  maintained  his  phony  attitude  of  polite  interest  almost  to  the  last.  He  said  several  rather  bro-  midic  things  like  &quot;The  human  condition  is  the  given;  it's  what  we  do  with  it  that  counts&quot;  and  &quot;The  body  is  simply  the  temple  wherein  the  soul  dwells,&quot;  which  Henry  Mackie  countered  with  his  fa-  mous  question  &quot;Why  does  it  have  to  be  that  way?,&quot;  which  has  dumfounded  so  many  orthodox  religionists  and  think-  ers  and  with  which  he  first  won  Edward  Asher  and  me  to  his  banner  in  the  first  place.  &quot;Why?&quot;  the  churchman  exclaimed.  It  was  clear  that  he  was  radically  taken  aback.  &quot;Because  it  is  that  way.  You  have  to  deal  with  what  is.  With  real-  ity.&quot;  &quot;But  why  does  it  have  to  be  that  way?&quot;  Henry  Mackie  repeated,  em-  ploying  the  technique  of  the  question,  which  used  in  this  way  is  unanswer-  able.  A  blush  of  anger  and  frustration  crossed  the  churchman's  features.  (It  probably  didn't  register  on  your  TV  screen,  Marie,  but  I  was  there,  I  saw  it-it  was  beautiful.)  &quot;The  human  condition  is  a  funda-   " b"mental  datum,&quot;  the  cleric  stated.  &quot;It  is  immutable,  fixed,  and  changeless.  To  say  otherwise-&quot;'  &quot;Precisely  why  it  must  be  chal-  lenged,&quot;  Henry  Mackie  said.  &quot;But,&quot;  the  cleric  said,  &quot;it  is  God's  will.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Henry  Mackie  said  signifi-  cantly.  The  churchman  then  retired  into  his  church,  muttering  and  shaking  his  head.  The  rain  had  damaged  our  signs  some-  what,  but  the  slogans  were  still  legible,  and  we  had  extra  signs  cached  in  Ed-  ward  Asher's  car  anyway.  In  the  next  hour,  a  number  of  innocents  crossed  the  picket  line  to  worship,  including  several  who  looked  as  if  they  might  be  from  the  F.B.I.  The  pickets  had  realized  in  lay-  ing  their  plans  the  danger  that  they  might  be  taken  for  Communists.  This  eventuality  was  provided  for  by  the  mimeographed  leaflets,  which  carefully  explained  that  the  pickets  were  not  Communists  and  cited  Edward  Asher's  and  Howard  Ettle's  Army  service,  in-  cluding  Asher's  Commendation  Rib-  bon.  &quot;We,  as  you,  are  law-abiding  American  citizens  who  support  the  Con-  stitution  and  pay  taxes,&quot;  the  leaflet  says.  &quot;We  are  simply  opposed  to  the  ruthless  way  in  which  the  human  condition  has  been  imposed  on  organisms  that  have  done  nothing  to  deserve  it  and  are  un-  able  to  escape  it.  Why  does  it  have  to  be  that  way?&quot;  The  leaflet  goes  on  to  dis-  cuss,  in  simple  language,  the  various  un-  fortunate  aspects  of  the  human  condi-  tion,  including  death,  unseemly  and  de-  grading  bodily  functions,  limitations  on  human  understanding,  and  the  chimera  of  love.  The  leaflet  concludes  with  the  section  headed  &quot;W  hat  Is  to  Be  Done?  ,&quot;  which  Henry  Mackie  says  is  a  famous  revolutionary  catchword  and  which  out-  lines,  inclear,  simple  language,  Henry  Mackie's  program  for  the  reification  of  the  human  condition  from  the  ground  up.  A  Negro  lady  came  up,  took  one  of  the  leaflets,  read  it  carefully,  and  then  said,  &quot;They  look  like  Communists  to  me!&quot;  Edward  Asher  commented  that  no  matter  how  clearly  things  were  ex-  plained  to  the  people,  the  people  always  wanted  to  believe  you  were  a  Commu-  nist.  He  said  that  when  he  demon-  strated  once  in  [REDACTED]  against  vivisec-  tion  of  helpless  animals  he  was  accused  of  being  a  Nazi  Communist,  which  was,  he  explained,  a  contradiction  in  terms.  He  said  ladies  were  usually  the  worst.  By  then,  the  large  crowd  that  had  gathered  when  the  television  men  came  had  drifted  away.  The  three  of  us  there-  fore  shifted  the  site  of  the  demonstra-  tion  to  Rockefeller  [REDACTED]  in  Rockefeller  Center,  via  Edward  Asher's  car.  Here  were  many  people  loafing,  digesting  lunch,  etc.,  and  we  used  the  spare  signs,  which  had  new  messages  including  WHY  ARE  YOU  STANDING  WHERE  YOU  ARE  STANDING!  THE  SOUL  Is  NOT!  NO  MORE  ART  CULTURE  LOVE  REMEMBER  YOU  ARE  DUST!  The  rain  had  stopped  and  the  flowers  smelled  marvellously  fine.  The  pickets  took  up  positions  near  a  restaurant.  (I  wish  you'd  been  there,  Marie,  because  it  reminded  me  of  something-some-  thing  you  said  that  night  we  went  to  Bloomingdale's  and  bought  your  new  cerise-colored  bathing  suit:  &quot;'The  color  a  new  baby  has,&quot;  you  said,  and  the  flowers  were  like  that,  some  of  them.)  People  with  camerashanging  around  their  necks  took  pictures  of  us,  as  if  they  had  never  seen  a  dem-  onstration  before.  The  pickets  remarked  among  themselves  that  it  was  funny  to  think  of  the  tourists  keeping  pictures  of  us  demonstrating  in  their  scrap-  books  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  Mich-  igan-people  we  didn't  know  and  who  didn't  know  us  or  care  anything  about  the  demonstra-  tion  or,  for  that  matter,  the  hu-  man  condition  itself,  in  which  they  were  so  steeped  that  they  couldn't  stand  off  and  look  at  it  and  know  it  for  what  it  was.  &quot;It's  a  paradigmatic  situation,&quot;  Henry  Mackie  said,  &quot;exemplify-  ing  the  distance  between  the  potential  knowers  holding  a  common-sense  view  of  the  world  and  what  is  to  be  known,  which  escapes  them  as  they  pursue  their  mundane  existences.&quot;  AT  this  time  (2:45  [REDACTED]),  the  dem-  onstrators  were  approached  by  a  group  of  youths  between  the  ages,  I  would  say,  of  sixteen  and  twenty-one.  They  were  dressed  in  hood  jackets,  T  shirts,  tight  pants,  etc.,  and  were  very  obviously  delinquents  from  bad  environ-  ments  and  broken  homes  where  they  had  received  no  love.  They  ringed  the  pickets  in  a  threatening  manner.  There  were  about  seven  of  them.  The  leader  (and  Marie,  he  wasn't  the  oldest;  he  was  younger  than  some  of  them-tall,  with  a  peculiar  face,  blank  and  intelli-  gent  at  the  same  time)  walked  around  looking  at  our  signs  with  exaggerated  curiosity.  &quot;What  are  you  guys?&quot;  he  said  finally.  &quot;Some  kind  of  creeps  or  something?&quot;  Henry  Mackie  replied  quietly  that  the  pickets  were  American  citizens  pursuing  their  right  to  demonstrate  peaceably  under  the  Constitution.  The  leader  looked  at  Henry  Mackie.  &quot;You're  flits,  you  guys,  huh?&quot;  he  said.  He  then  snatched  a  handful  of  leaflets  out  of  Edward  Asher's  hands,  and  when  Edward  Asher  attempted  to  recover  them,  danced  away  out  of  reachwhile  two  others  stood  in  Asher's  way.  &quot;What  do  you  flits  think  you're  doin'?&quot;  the  leader  said.  &quot;What  is  this  jazz?&quot;  &quot;You  haven't  got  any  right-&quot;  Henry  Mackie  started  to  say,  but  the  leader  of  the  youths  moved  very  close  to  him  then.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  you  don't  be-  " b"lieve  in  God?&quot;  he  said.  The  other  ones  moved  in  closer,  too.  &quot;That  is  not  the  question,&quot;  Henry  Mackie  said.  &quot;Belief  or  non-belief  is  not  at  issue.  The  situation  remains  the  same  whether  you  believe  or  not.  The  human  condition  is-&quot;  &quot;Listen,&quot;  the  leader  said,  &quot;I  thought  all  you  guys  went  to  church  every  day.  Now  you  tell  me  that  flits  don't  believe  in  God.  You  putting  me  on?&quot;  Henry  Mackie  repeated  that  belief  was  not  involved  and  said  that  it  was,  rather,  a  question  of  man  helpless  in  the  grip  of  a  definition  of  himself  that  he  had  not  drawn,  that  could  not  be  altered  by  human  action,  and  that  was  in  fun-  damental  conflict  with  every  human  notion  of  what  should  obtain.  The  pick-  ets  were  simply  subjecting  this  state  of  affairs  to  a  radical  questioning,  he  said.  &quot;You're  putting  me  on,&quot;  the  youth  said,  and  attempted  to  kick  Henry  Mackie  in  the  groin,  but  Mackie  turned  away  in  time.  However,  the  other  youths  then  jumped  the  pickets,  right  in  the  middle  of  Rockefeller  [REDACTED].  Hen-  ry  Mackie  was  thrown  to  the  pavement  and  kicked  repeatedly  in  the  head,  Ed-  ward  Asher's  coat  was  ripped  off  his  back  and  he  sustained  many  blows  in  the  kidneys  and  elsewhere,  and  Howard  Ettle  was  given  a  broken  rib  by  a  youth  called  Cutter  or  something  like  that  who  shoved  him  against  a  wall  and  smashed  him  viciously,  even  though  bystanders  tried  to  interfere  (a  few  of  them).  All  this  happened  in  a  very  short  period  of  time.  The  pickets'  signs  were  broken  and  smashed  and  their  leaflets  scattered  everywhere.  A  police-  man  summoned  by  bystanders  tried  to  catch  the  youths,  but  they  got  away  through  the  lobby  of  the  Associated  Press  Building  and  he  returned  empty-  handed.  Medical  aid  was  summoned  for  the  pickets.  Photos  were  taken.  &quot;Senselessviolence,&quot;  Edward  Asher  said  later.  &quot;They  didn't  understand  that-&quot;  &quot;On  the  contrary,&quot;  Henry  Mackie  said,  &quot;they  understand  everything  bet-  ter  than  anybody.&quot;  The  next  evening,  at  8  p.m.,  Henry  Mackie  delivered  his  lecture  in  the  up-  stairs  meeting  room  at  the  Plamor  Lanes,  as  had  been  announced  in  the  leaflet.  The  crowd  was  very  small  but  attentive  and  interested.  Henry  Mackie  had  his  head  bandaged  in  a  white  bandage.  He  delivered  his  lecture  titled  &quot;What  Is  to  Be  Done?&quot;  with  good  dic-  tion  and  enunciation  and  in  a  strong  voice.  He  was  very  eloquent.  And  elo-  quence,  Henry  Mackie  says,  is  really  as  much  as  any  ofus  can  hope  for. "