 b"STILL,  I  have  a  certain  ramshackle  charm.  So  that  when  I  took  her  |;  young  hands  in  mine  across  the  restaurant  table  she  did  not  immediately  withdraw  from  my  grasp,  nor  from  the  larger,  bolder  plan  of  action,  which  I  now  proceeded  to  sketch  out  for  her  benefit.  &quot;What  I'm  going  to  do  is,  I'm  go-  ing  to  declare  moral  bankruptcy,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  mean,  we  keep  using  the  term  in  that  sense,  why  not  follow  it  through?  When  a  man  can  no  longer  discharge  his  financial  obligations,  we  let  him  off  the  hook.  Why  not  when  he  can  no  longer  meet  his  ethical  ones?  I  have  too  many  emotional  creditors  hounding  me,  I  tell  you!  That's  all  there  is  to  it.  A  man  simply  cannot  meet  all  the  demands  made  on  his  resources,  simply  cannot  be  expected  to  keep  his  books  balanced.  It's  too  much.  Everybody  keeps  talking  about  moral  bankruptcy  but  nobody  does  anything  about  it.  Well,  I'm  going  to.  I'm  going  to  de-  clare  it.  I'm  going  into  receivership.  I'm  going  to  pay  everybody  so  much  on  the  dollar.&quot;  &quot;In  other  words,  Duxbury,&quot;  she  said,  calling  me  by  my  last  name  as  people  affectionately  do,  &quot;you  want  to  tell  your  wife  about  us.&quot;  &quot;I  do,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;and  I've  spoken  those  words  only  once  before  in  my  life.&quot;  She  gazed  thoughtfully  into  her  post-  luncheon  mint,  stirring  the  icy  sludge  around  a  bit  with  her  straw.  &quot;How  will  you  go  about  it?&quot;  she  asked,  at  length.  &quot;I  mean,  how  much  will  you  pay  everybody  on  the  dollar,  as  you  put  it?&quot;  I  frowned  into  my  third  brandy  as  I  mentally  reviewed  the  scale  of  fig-  ures  I  had  already  more  or  less  worked  out.  Proclaiming  to  the  world  that  one  is  materially  insolvent  is  a  serious  enough  step;  posting  notice  that  one  is  no  longer  ethically  liquid  is  an  even  graver  one,  especially  if,  as  appeared  to  be  true  here,  one  is  the  first  man  in  his-  tory  to  be  doing  so  in  a  formal  sense.  The  case  would  be  precedent-setting.  It  might  even  become  a  cause  c\xc3\xa9lobre,  with  all  the  attendant  widespread  pub-  licity  that  I  must  be  prepared  to  shoul-  der  and  to  shoulder  alone.  I  therefore  weighed  my  words  carefully.  &quot;I  figure  I  can  pay  fifty  cents  on  the  dollar,&quot;  I  said  at  last.  &quot;That  will  be  all  told  and  across  the  board.  It  will  be  divided  up  as  fairly  as  I  know  how  among  the  claimants.  'That  is  to  say,  half  of  what  is  expected  of  this  man  on  all  fronts  is  really  all  there  is  of  him" b"to  go  around.  'That's  all  there  is,  there  ain't  nomore.&quot;  Here  I  paused  to  ask,  &quot;You  understand  that  I  am  talking  about  the  moral  equivalent  of  money,  in  the  mart  of  human  relationships.&quot;  She  nodded,  sucking  up  the  bright-green  cordial  with  lips  pursed  into  a  scarlet  bud.  &quot;All  right,  then,&quot;  I  went  on.  &quot;I  shall  continue  to  make  my  disburse-  ments-of  loyalty,  codperation,  et  cetera-at  that  level;  I  mean,  I  intend  to  stay  in  business  as  a  human  being.  There  will  never  be  any  question  about  that,  nor  that  my  wife  and  family  will  come  first,  my  friends  next,  and  then  such  things  as  obligation  to  community  and  whatnot,  in  the  ever-widening  cir-  cles  of  responsibilities  as  one  sees  them-  and  prorated  as  I  say.&quot;  &quot;What  about  your  parents,  Dux-  bury?&quot;  she  asked,  looking  up.  &quot;You  admitted  you  haven't  been  back  home  to  see  them  in  over  a  year.  I  don't  like  that  in  a  man.  A  man  should  be  thoughtful  and  considerate  about  things  like  that.&quot;  &quot;All  right,  Pll  throw  in  another  nickelfor  them,  soto  speak.  I  mean,  I'll  stretch  apoint  in  what  I'll  give,  so  the  others  concerned  won't  get  less  of  my  time  and  devotion.  But  that's  my  top  figure.  More  than  that  can  simply  not  be  squeezed  out  of  the  orange.&quot;  &quot;What  about  me?  What  do  I  get?&quot;  &quot;You  get  me,  A  man  out  from  un-  der  at  last,  ready  to  make  a  fresh  start  free  and  clear.  How's  that?  Ah,  macushla  .  ..&quot;  There  was  a  silence,  broken  only  by  the  hydraulic  sounds  of  the  last  of  the  mint  going  up  the  translucent  straw,  which  was  finally  put  by  with  a  dainty  crimson  stain  on  its  tip.  &quot;Well,  all  right,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  expect  you'll  want  to  get  home  early  tonight  and  have  it  out.  I'm  glad  I  won't  have  to  be  there,&quot;  she  added  with  a  little  shudder.  &quot;I  just  hope  it  won't  be  like  the  sordid  blowups  you  canhear  through  the  walls  of  apartments.  The  couple  next  door  to  mine  actually  throw  crockery  at  each  other.&quot;  &quot;Love  is  a  many-splintered  thing.  Heh-heh-heh.  Ah,  baby,  the  fun  we'll-&quot;  &quot;So  why  don't  you  call  for  the  check?&quot;  I  flagged  the  waiter,  still  brooding  over  the  various  aspects  of  this  thorny  problem,  which  I  am  sure  vexes  every  man  from  time  to  time-just  how  much  of  him  there  is  to  go  around.  &quot;As  for  one's  country,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;that's  all  well  and  good,  but  I  doubt  whether  in  peace-  time  a  man  owes  it  any  more  than  is  extorted  from  him  in  taxes  to  maintain  God  knows  what  proliferating  bureaus " b"and  agencies  going  to  make  up  what  is  still  essentially  an  eleemosynary  goddam  government.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  have  to  swear  to  show  how  limited  your  vocabulary  is,&quot;  she  said,  reaching  for  her  gloves  and  bag  with  a  hauteur  well  supported  by  the  patrician  profile  that  had  from  the  very  first  struck  me  to  the  heart.  She  is  a  tawny  girl  with  long  legs  and  hair  like  poured  honey.  In  her  brown  eyes  is  a  vacancy  as  divine  as  that  left  in  the  last  motel  available  to  the  desperate  way-  farer.  My  knees  turned  to  rubber  as  I  read  the  check  and  produced  the  forty  clams  necessary  to  discharge  my  imme-  diate  obligations.  &quot;Keep  the  change,&quot;  I  told  the  waiter  in  a  voice  hoarse  with  passion.  &quot;If  you  do  have  it  out  at  home,  then  you'll  be  able  to  make  it  for  dinner  to-  morrow  instead  of  lunch,  I  expect?&quot;  she  said,  rising  as  the  waiter  swung  the  table  aside  for  her  exit.  &quot;Name  the  place,&quot;  I  said,  trailingin  her  wake.  &quot;The  Four  Seasons  is  nice.&quot;  HEN  I  got  home,  after  the  usual  grimy  and  spasmodic  ride  on  that  awful  railroad,  my  family  were  already  at  meat.  My  wife  looked  up  from  a  gardening  magazine  she  was  reading  as  she  ate,  and  waved  cheerfully.  Our  sixteen-year-old  son  was  paging  through  a  motorcycle  pamphlet  over  his  own  heaped  plate,  while  his  ten-year-old  brother  pored,  fork  in  hand,  over  a  comic  book.  The  latter  wore  a  switch-  man's  cap  with  the  visor  behind.  Dent-  ed  beer  cans  were  clamped  to  the  heels  of  his  shoes,  and  his  bubble  gum  was  on  his  wrist.  It  seemed  as  good  a  time  as  any  to  make  my  declaration.  My  eight-  een-year-old  daughter,  a  free  spirit  now  apparently  touring  Europe  or  some-  thing,  would,  I  knew,  heartily  applaud  my  action,  if  I  could  only  locate  her.  I  helped  myself  to  some  food  from  a  casserole  keeping  warm  in  the  oven  and  joined  them  at  the  table.  But  I  could  not  eat.  Finally,  I  shoved  my  plate  aside  and  said,  &quot;I  have  an  announcement  to  make.&quot;  There  was  a  rustle  of  turned  pages  and  a  nod  or  two.  &quot;You  have  all  no  doubt  read  Ibsen's  'The  Wild  Duck,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That  anti-morality  play,  perhaps  his  best,  in  which  he  makes  the  point  that  we  can-  not  always  be  pressed  with  the  claims  of  the  ideal.  That  we  should  not  be  for-  ever  dunned,&quot;  I  went  on,  consulting  a  frayed  cuff  on  which  I  had  jotted  what  I  could  remember  of  Relling's  crucial  speeches  in  that  drama,  &quot;forever  dunned  for  debts  we  cannot  pay.  Isn't  that" b"fine?  Doesn't  that  make  reasonable  sense?  All  right,  then.  I  take  this  to  mean,  therefore,  that  aperson  who  has  reached  a  certain  point  in  the  general  drain  on  his  resources  may  with  im-  punity  say,  I  herewith  formally  declare  myself  bankrupt.  I  am  going  into  moral  receivership.  Creditors,  take  note-you  will  henceforth  get  so  much  on  the  dol-  lar,'  said  creditors  to  include  all  those  reasonably  embraced  by  that  corporate  term  'society,&quot;  on  whose  Accounts  Re-  ceivable  we  are  all  permanently  en-  rolled:  family,  friends,  community,  and  so  on.  Now  then  for  the  figure  I  am  prepared  to  give  you.  The  absolute  maximum  disbursement  I  can  manage  is,  roughly,  fifty  cents  on  the  dollar.  Put  in  plain  English,  this  means  that  in  future  I  shall  be  half  the  husband  I  was,  half  the  father,  half  the  friend,  and  so  on  down  the  line.  Well,  there  it  is.  What  have  you  to  say?&quot;  My  wife  dropped  her  magazine  and  passed  a  plate  of  homemade  rolls  around  the  table.  &quot;Why,  if  she's  what  you  want,  go  to  her,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Go  away  with  her  even,  for  a  while,  if  it  will  help  get  her  out  of  your  system.&quot;  I  rose  and  shoved  my  chair  back  with  a  force  that  sent  it  clattering  to  the  floor  behind  me.  &quot;I  wish  you'd  stop  treating  me  as  an  individual  in  my  own  right,&quot;  I  ex-  claimed.  &quot;All  of  you!  Nothing  is  more  irritating  than  that,  or  more  demoraliz-  ing.  As  though  a  man  has  to  be  humored  like  some  damn  kid!&quot;  With  that  I  flung  out  of  the  room,  slamming  the  door  after  me.  My  resolve  to  leave  was  by  now  quite  firm.  I  marched  to  my  bedroom  and,  pausing  only  long  enough  to  stand  modestly  before  a  wall  glass  and  say,  &quot;You  ain't  nuttin'  but  a  hound-dog,&quot;  I  packed  three  bags,  which  I  carried,  forever  panting,  along  the  corridor  and  down  the  stairs  to  the  vestibule.  There  I  momentarily  dropped  my  luggage  to  recover  my  wind.  As  I  stood  there,  I  sensed  a  footfall  in  the  passage  along  which  I  had  just  come.  Looking  up  the  stairs,  I  saw  my  mother-in-law  approaching,  in  velvet  slippers  and  with  the  aid  of  her  stout  cane.  Slightly  indisposed,  she  hadhad  a  tray  in  her  room,  the  door  of  which  she  had  left  open,  as  is  her  wont,  so  as  not  to  isolate  herself  entirely  from  the  life  of  the  house.  She  paused  at  the  head  of  the  stairs  and  from  under  her  white  lace  mobcap  fixed  me  with  a  bright  eye.  &quot;I  could  not  help  overhearing,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  with  all  due  apologies,  I  should  like  to  remind  you  of  one  per-  son  you  have  overlooked  in  your  list" b"of  creditors,  as  you  put  it.  Someone  to  whom  you  also  owe  something.&quot;  &quot;Who  might  that  be,  Mother  Bun-  shaft?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Yourself,&quot;  she  answered,  smiling.  &quot;Ah,  Mother  Bunshaft,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;the  longer  you  live  with  us  the  more  your  wisdom-&quot;  &quot;Correction-I  think  you  mean  the  longer  you  live  with  me.&quot;  The  house  is  in  her  name  for  legal  reasons  (she  owns  it).  &quot;The  longer  you  live  with  me,  the  more  I  find  I  have  to  tell  you,  it  seems.  Now  I  suggest  you  owe  it  to  yourself  to  pause  a  moment  and  count  the  cost.  Of  a  second  establishment.  which  I  assume  is  in  your  mind-espe-  cially  if  we  increase  the  cost  of  this  one  by  starting  to  ask  for  rent  again.  The  upkeep  of  two  cars,  the  many  other  pos-  sessions  bought  on  time.  I  expect  we're  quite  the  ticket  out  there  in  the  big  city&quot;&quot;  -here  she  humorously  cocked  the  tip  of  her  stick  at  me  and  sighted  along  its  length  as  along  the  barrel  of  a  rifle,  at  the  same  time  making  that  chucking  noise  out  of  the  side  of  her  mouth  that  once  was  used  to  make  horses  giddyap  but  now  conveys  the  ideaof  hot  stuff-  &quot;but  it  might  just  pay  us  to  take  a  good  hard  look  at  our  bank  balance,  if  any,  our  arrears  with  the  loan  company-  Just  a  minute,  I'm  not  finished,&quot;  she  called  as  I  hurried  out  the  front  door  without  the  bags.  Well,  that's  how  the  cookie  crum-  bles.  It  tookvery  little  probing  to  make  clear  the  scale  of  living  the  other  wom-  an  had  in  mind-a  single  phone  call  from  a  public  booth,  in  fact.  Her  re-  sponse  to  my  suggestion  that  we  meet  at  some  convenient  Schrafft's  or  Stouf-  fer's,  instead  of  the  Four  Seasons,  with  all  that  nonsense  about  flaming  skewers  and  telephones  brought  to  the  tables,  alone  didthe  trick.  So  that  seems  to  bethepoint  of  this  whole  incident  in  a  nutshell,  its  moral,  you  might  say,  which  I  pass  along  to  any  man  contemplating  the  same  course  of  action  I  was,  Before  you  start  declar-  ing  moral  bankruptcy,  make  damn  sure  you're  in  good  shape  financially."