 b"A Russian  novel,  written  by  Alexander  Solzhenitsyn  and  called  &quot;One  Day  in  the  Life  of  in  this  country.  It  is  the  detailed  account  of  a  single  day  in  a  Siberian  labor  camp,  told  by  a  man  serving  a  ten-year  sen-  tence  there,  and  itis  grim.  However,  '  it  is  fiction.  The  story  I  am  about  to  '  tell  is  not.  It  is  the  detailed  account  ofa  single  day  in  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  Labor  Department-the  one  in  Washing-  ton,  D.C.-told  by  a  man  serving  out  his  sixth  year  there.  I  am  the  man.  The  day  was  a  Wednesday  in  late  April,  1963.  I  went  to  work  half  an  hour  early  in  the  hope  of  finishing  the  morning  news-  paper  before  the  phones  started  ringing,  '  butthey  didn't  wait.  The  first  call  was  for  a  Mr.  Brown,  who  was  on  my  pres-  ent  extension  last  year.  There  was  no  use  transferring  the  call,  because  he  hadn't  come  in  yet.  I  took  the  message  and  put  it  on  his  desk.  The  second  call  was  from  my  colleague  Mr.  Wright,  who  said  that  a  colonel  in  the  [REDACTED]  who  was  looking  for  a  copy  of  a  1962  airgram  from  [REDACTED]  had  called  him.  The  colonel  hadn't  been  able  to  find  the  airgram,  and,  since  the  Labor  Depart-  ment  was  on  its  routing,  he  thought  we  might  have  it.  I  had  had  a  copy,  but  I  had  thrown  it  out.  I  went  to  the  Central  Files  room.  The  girl  in  charge  said  that  all  the  1962  files  had  been  moved  to  Room  7223.  She  and  I  went  there,  she  un-  locked  the  cabinet,  and  we  found  a  copy  of  an  airgram  from  [REDACTED].  I  took  it  back  to  my  desk  and  called  the  colonel,  who  said  he  had  that  airgram  already;  he  was  now  hunting  for  two  others.  So  I  went  back  to  Central  Files,  found  one  of  the  two,  and  then  went  to  Room  7223,  where  I  found  the  other  in  the  1962  file.  I  took  them  both  back  to  my  desk  and  called  the  colonel  again.  He  said  to  hold  on  to  them;  he  thought  he  was  about  to  get  them  from  some-  where  else,  but,  if  not,  he  would  send  a  messenger  over  for  my  copies.  The  next  call  was  from  Amy  Shan-  non,  the  secretary  of  my  boss's  boss.  She  wanted  to  know  whether  she  could  bor-  row  my  secretary  to  type  some  letters  to  Africa.  Itold  her  I  wasn't  sure,  since  either  my  secretary  or  one  of  the  other  :  secretaries  would  have  to  type  some     long-overdue  letters  for  the  signature  of  the  Secretary  of  Labor.  However,  both  girls  were  in  the  cafeteria,  having  breakfast,  so  I  wasn't  able  to  give  Amy  [REDACTED]  a  definite  answer.  I  promised  to  call  her  back.  The  letters  in  question  were  replies  to  greetings  from  foreign  Labor  Minis-  ters,  received  in  February  on  the  occa-  sion  of  the  Department's  fiftieth  anni-  versary.  According  to  the  Secretary's  Notice  14-63,  letters  from  Cabinet-level  foreign-government  officials  fall  into  the  category  &quot;Priority  Mail&quot;  and  re-  quire  extra-prompt  treatment.  Why,  then,  were  letters  received  in  February  still  awaiting  reply  late  in  April?  Well,  as  Solzhenitsyn  recognizes,  one  day's  worth  of  this  kind  of  stuff  is  as  much  as  a  reader  can  stand,  so  I  won't  go  into  all  that  had  happened  to  those  letters  during  February,  March,  and  April.  I  next  picked  up  a  paper  I  had  writ-  ten  on  the  4a6170616eese  steelworkers'  union.  It  had  been  written  in  anticipation  of  a  visit  from  six  officials  of  that  union  under  the  State  Department's  exchange  program.  I  wanted  to  show  the  draft  of  my  paper  to  a  member  of  the  Wash-  ington  staff  of  the  United  Steelworkers  of  [REDACTED],  who  had  been  to  4a6170616e  and  knew  more  about  the  subject  than  I.  But,  in  keeping  with  the  standards  of  econ-  omy  set  by  Congress  and  the  Budget  Bureau,  no  messengers  are  avail-  able  to  go  from  govern-  ment  departments  to  private  organizations.  By  now,  my  secretary  was  busy  doing  some-  one  else's  work,  so  I  de-  cided  to  deliver  the  pa-  per  myself,  and,  as  it  was  a  nice  spring  day,  to  walk.  After  delivering  the  paper,  I  went  into  a  nearby  bank  to  cash  a  check  and  then  walked  back,  too.  On  my  desk  was  a  note  that  Mrs.  Leavell  had  called.  It  seemed  that  Mr.  Warnock  had  given  hera  letter  to  an-  swer  that  Assistant  Secretary  Weaver  had  given  him.  It  was  from  a  Malayan  named  G.  Joseph,  who  was  enlisting  Mr.  Weaver's  help  to  finance  visits  to  Akron  and  [REDACTED]  following  the  completion  of  his  studies  at  Cornell.  Mrs.  Leavell  thought  she  remembered  having  overheard  me  mention  the  same  man.  I  explained  that  another  Malayan,  named  P.  P.  Narayanan,  had  previ-  ously  written  to  Mr.  Weaver  on  behalf  of  his  friend  Joseph.  Mr.  Weaver  had  " b"sent  Mr.  Narayanan's  letter  to  Mr.  Warnock  with  a  covering  note  saying  that  we  should  check  with  the  Asia  Foundation  to  see  whether  Joseph's  fellowship  wouldn't  cover  such  travel.  Mr.  Warnock  had  been  out  last  week,  so  the  letter  hadgone  to  Mr.  Bazan,  who  had  sent  it  to  me.  Since  I  don't  know  anyone  in  the  Asia  Foundation,  and  the  Foundation  has  no  office  in  [REDACTED],  I  had  called  my  friend  Howland,  in  the  State  Department,  who,  in  turn,  had  had  someone  in  his  office  phone  Harry  Pearson,  of  the  Asia  Foundation,  who  had  said  that  Joseph's  fellowship  would  cover  such  travel,  and  that  all  Joseph  had  to  do  was  write  directly  to  the  Foundation.  In  conclu-  sion,  I  pointed  out  to  Mrs.  Leavell  that  there  had  been  no  need  for  Narayanan,  Weaver,  Warnock,  Bazan,  Hoover,  Howland,  the  person  in  Howland's  office,  Pearson,  or  her  to  have  become  involved  in  this  matter.  The  next  phone  call  I  answered  was  a  personal  call  for  my  secretary,  who  was  still  out.  The  next  visitor  was  a  colleague  who  reported  that  our  boss  was  wondering  whether  the  man  in  the  personnel  office  who  was  supposed  to  have  written  two  letters  had  done  so.  I  said  I  had  the  im-  pression  that  it  was  our  boss,  not  theper-  sonnel  officer,  who  was  to  have  written  the  letters.  But  the  boss  was  out  at  a  meeting  at  the  time,  and  so  the  matter  could  not  be  cleared  up.  Then  my  secretary  returned,  saying  that  the  woman  in  charge  of  the  Justo-  writer  machine,  on  which  the  letters  for  the  Secretary's  signature  were  to  be  typed,  wouldn't  let  it  be  used  without  having  an  appropriation  number  to  which  the  cost  could  be  charged.  An  adminis-  trative  officer  in  our  bureau,  to  whom  my  secretary  had  gone,  refused  to  give  her  a  bureau  appropriation  number,  be-  cause  he  felt  that  the  job  should  be  charged  to  the  Secretary's  office,  not  to  our  bureau.  Only  Mr.  Paschke  could  break  the  impasse.  I  called  him,  but  he  was  out  at  a  meeting.  By  then  it  was  time  for  lunch.  HE  first  phone  call  after  lunch  was  another  personal  call  for  my  secre-  tary,  who  hadgone  out  to  lunch  herself.  The  next  was  from  Amy  [REDACTED],  who  was  making  a  survey  for  somebody  who  wanted  to  determine  whether  members  of  the  Department  staff  had  been  attending  any  conferences,  courses,  or  seminars  during  1963  to  improve  ourselves.  I  gave  her  an  appropriate  answer.  At  this  point,  an  old  friend  from  [REDACTED]  dropped  in  unexpectedly." b" After  chatting  awhile,  we  went  down  for  coffee  to  celebrate  the  reunion.  My  first  phone  call  upon  returning  to  the  office  was  a  personal  call  for  my  secretary,  who  herself  hadgone  down  for  coffee.  What  was  left  of  the  after-  noon  was  spent  reading  the  day's  &quot;traf-  fic&quot;-the  term  forthe  inward  flow  of  papers  that  reaches  rush-hour  propor-  tions  around  five  o'clock  each  day.  At  the  close  of  business  every  Wednesday,  we  must  all  submit  activ-  ity  reports  covering  the  week  that  will  end  the  following  Friday.  It  may  seem  odd  that  this  is  done  on  Wednesdays,  but  the  Under-Secretary  has  to  submit  to  the  Secretary  a  weekly  report  com-  piled  from  the  weekly  reports  of  the  bureau  chiefs,  which  are  compiled  from  the  weekly  reports  of  the  office  chiefs,  which  are  compiled  from  the  weekly  re-  ports  of  the  division  chiefs,  which  are  compiled  from  our  weekly  reports.  Un-  less  we  get  the  whole  business  off  to  a  good  head  start,  the  Under-Secretary  cannot  get  his  report  in  on  time  and  will  be  reprimanded  by  the  Secretary  and,  in  turn,  will  reprimand,  et  cetera.  HE  office  working  day  ended  at  five-thirty,  but  more  work  was  waiting  at  home.  I  had  to  read  a  trans-  lation  of  an  article  from  the  Peking  magazine  Red  Flag  entitled  &quot;More  on  the  Differences  Between  Comrade  To-  gliatt  and  Us-Some  Important  Prob-  lems  of  Leninism  in  the  Contemporary  [REDACTED];  The  article  had  lain  on  my  desk  for  a  month,  until  it  became  clear  that  I  would  never  read  it  at  the  office.  I  had  taken  it  home  on  Tuesday  eve-  ning,  but,  after  going  through  seventy-  five  pages,  had  been  able  to  take  no  " b"more.  So  it  was  still  there  at  home,  wait-  ing  to  be  finished  on  Wednesday.  By  the  time  that  got  done,  it  was  too  late  to  start  anything  else  but  too  early  to  go  to  bed,  and  I  got  to  thinking  about  Ivan  Denisovich.  I  thought  that  if  only  I  had  the  skill  of  Solzhenitsyn,  I  could  make  my  life  sound  interesting  and  grim-  though  it  really  is  a  better  life  than  Ivan's  in  some  respects. "