 b"WHEN  the  voices  began  again,  Laura  decided  that  she  had  let  things  go  too  far  to  demon-  strate  the  thinness  of  the  walls  by  cough-  ing.  To  have  to  speak  in  whispers  from  then  on  might  spoil  their  holiday,  and  would  take  something  from  her  own.  As  they  talked,  Laura  could  hear  move-  ments  about  the  room,  the  rattling  of  coat  hangers  in  the  wardrobe.  The  con-  versation  was  discursive,  languid,  and  there  were  long,  tired  silences.  She  had  never  seen  them,  had  never  come  across  them  in  the  passage  or  wait-  ing  for  the  lift,  and  was  amused  to  know  so  much  about  two  women  she  had  never  met.  For  instance,  she  knew  that  Edith's  little  trouble  had  cleared  up  at  last,  and  she  was  glad  about  that.  It  had  seemed  a  pity  to  waste  two  days  of  a  holiday  from  fear  of  leaving  the  hotel.  Amy  had  seemed  to  be  kindness  itself,  hardly  venturing  out  except  on  little  errands,  and  having  trays  of  plain  food  sent  up  for  her  friend.  &quot;It's  the  oil,  all  that  oil,&quot;  Laura  often  heard.  She  spent  the  hot  part  of  the  day  in  her  bed-  room,  writing  letters  or  lying  on  the  bed,  lis-  tening,  keeping  quiet.  When  she  opened  the  shuttered  windows,  the  noise  of  Athens  roared  in-traffic,  pneumatic  drills,  the  chipping  of  steel  on  masonry,  bells  tolling-and  in  flowed,  too,  the  steady  heat,  the  glare  from  the  sky,  and  greasy  smells  from  the  kitchen  below,  When  she  had  failed  to  find  any  fresh  air,  Laura  closed  the  windows  and  flopped  back  on  the  bed  to  listen.  &quot;It  was  just  a  sort  of  mince  with  a  batter,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;Really  more  of  a  custard,&quot;  said  Edith.  &quot;Moussaka,  th  ey  called  it.&quot;  &quot;Moussaka,&quot;  Edith  said.  She  was  the  less  gentle  one.  She  liked  to  know  more,  and  domi-  nated.  Taller,  Laura  thought.  She  imagined  Amy  rather  plump  and  soft.  Her  voice  was  high  and  floating,  very  sweet.  Edith's  was  abrupt  and  deeper.  It  was  Amy  who  had  been  so  affected  by  the  stairs  when  the  lift  was  out  of  order.  She  had  puffed  and  blown  for  a  long  time  after  they  reached  their  room.  It  was  the  morning  that  they  visited  the  Acropolis  (a  view  of  which  Laura  could  have  by  leaning  right  out  over  the  courtyard  and  craning  her  neck  upward),  and  both  were  worn  outbut  exalted.  'To  think  they  had  really  seen  it,  after  all  these  years,  they  said  over  and  over  again.  To  Laura,  at  first,  they  had  sounded  like  schoolmistresses;  but  the  summer  term  could  not  be  ended  yet.  They  might  have  retired;  yet  she  pictured  them  leading  some  kind  of  busy  life  to-  gether-'&quot;my  colleague,&quot;  they  might  say  in  introductions  to  other  people-'&quot;a  colleague  of  mine.&quot;  It  was  clear  that  their  holiday  had  been  planned  for  a  long  time  and  Laura  was  glad  that,   apart  from  Edith's  little  trouble  at  the  beginning,  it  was  being  a  success.  They  went  off  to  Delphi,  having  what  they  called  &quot;mugged  it  up&quot;  first,  and  Laura  wondered  anxiously  if  Delphi  would  come  up  to  expectations.  It  had,  and  more.  Sounion,  in  spite  of  a  thunder-  storm  (perhaps  because  of  it,  Amy  sug-  gested),  had  greatly  impressed,  and  even  the  food  was  what  everyone-and  espe-  cially  a  certain  Colonel  Benson-had  warnedthem  that  it  would  be.  From  Mykonos  (&quot;Just  a  little  bit  touristy&quot;)  they  had  apparently  brought  back  a  quantity  of  peasant  art-the  prices  of  it  were  much  compared  and  discussed-and  Laura  could  imagine  them  making  their  excursions  draped  in  crudely  striped  stoles,  their  hair  cov-  ered  with  bright  scarves,  guidebooks  and  sun-tan  oil  in  fringed  and  tasselled  shoulder  bags.  On  the  other  side  of  the  wall,  they  often  mildly  argued.  &quot;We  paid  no  credence  to  Colonel  Benson  about  drinking  the  water,&quot;  Amy  had  said,  when  Edith  had  her  bout  of  diarrhea.  &quot;I  paid  no  credence  then.  I  pay  no  credence  [REDACTED];  said  Edith  sharp-  ly.  &quot;It  is  a  long  time  since  the  Colonel  was  in  Athens.  It  was  the  oil-  'This  oil's  of,  I  re-  member  saying  to  you  the  first  evening  we  were  here.  In  that  place  with  the  wine  vats.  It  was  rancid.&quot;  Amy  murmured  something  in  reply,  but  for  once  Laura  could  not  hear.  Sometimes,  w  he  n  Laura  awoke  in  the  morning,  the  voices  were  going  on  as  if  they  had  not  stopped  all  night;  other  days,  there  was  silence,  broken  by  Alexis  bringing  their  breakfast.  &quot;Good  morning,  good  morning,  ladies,&quot;  he  would  call  out  in  a  warning,  lilting  voice,  and  Laura  imagined  the  scramble  for  bed  wraps,  the  sheets  drawn  up  to  their  chins  as  they  gravely  replied  in  the  other  language,  &quot;Kalt  m\xc3\xa9ra,  Alexis.&quot;  When  he  had  gone,  Laura  would  hear  long  yawns,  the  sounds  of  breakfast  beginning,  " b"and  the  start  of  the  day's  conversation.  &quot;How  kind  Mme.  Petropoulos  [REDACTED];  said  Amy.  &quot;I  made  a  note  of  the  res-  taurant  she  recommended.  Where  did  she  say  to  get  the  rose-petal  jam  from?&quot;  Edith  had  made  a  note  of  that  some-  where.'They  had  acquired  a  habit  of  writing  everything  down,  for  there  was  a  great  deal  they  were  in  danger  of  for-  getting.  They  had  brought  a  letter  of  introduction  to  Mme.  Petropoulos  and  had  been  greatly  excited  about  their  visit  to  her.  Amy  had  even  been  tempted  to  wear  the  stole  she  had  bought  as  a  pres-  ent  for  her  niece.,  Mme.  Petropoulos  had  a  flat  high  up  in  abuilding  at  the  foot  of  Mount  Lyca-  bettus  (such  a  pull  up  from  the  hotel;  they  had  arrived  quite  winded  and  then  had  to  climb  the  flights  of  marble  stairs),  and  they  had  sat  out  on  a  balcony  and  looked  at  the  view-the  Acropolis  gold-  en  in  the  evening  light,  the  mountains  violet,  and  Salamis  darkening  in  the  glittering  sea.  'They  had  described  it  over  and  over  to  one  another  as  they  went  to  bed  last  night,  rather  over-  excited,  like  children.  It  had  been  a  high  spot  of  their  holiday.  This  morning,  they  began  to  marvel  at  it  again.  &quot;We  must  remember  to  send  her  a  Christmas  card,&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;Al-  though  I  don't  think  they  make  as  much  of  it  as  we  do.&quot;  &quot;Don't  speak  of  Christmas,&quot;  Edith  begged  her,  with  the  English  dread  of  it  in  her  voice.  &quot;We  needn't  have  worried  about  the  language.  I  must  confess  I  was  quite  nervous  at  bringing  out  my  few  sen-  tences.&quot;  She  had  been  rehearsing  these-com-  piled  from  the  phrase  book-for  days  be-  forehand;  but  Edith,  whom  Laura  sus-  pected  of  fearing  to  make  a  fool  of  herself,  would  not  try..  &quot;We  know  that  Mme.  Petropoulos  can  speak  English.  Colonel  Benson  told  us  so,&quot;  she  had  re-  minded  Amy,  interrupting  her  rehearsal  of  &quot;Athens  pleases  us  very  much.  We  go  to  Delphi.&quot;  (Everything  in  the  phrase  book  was  in  the  present  tense,  but  she  hoped  to  be  understood.)  &quot;Delphi  pleases  us  very  much.  Mykonos  pleases  us  very  much.  And  Sounion.&quot;  To  her  girlish  wonder  and-it  ap-  peared  to  Laura-Edith's  annoyance,  the  phrases  hadseemed  to  be  under-  stood  and  had  gone  down  well.  Mme.  Petropoulos  had  responded  with  warm  surprise,  had  said,  in  fact,  &quot;Now  I  do  not  know  whether  to  speak  to  you  in  English  or  Greek.&quot;  &quot;Such  a  lot  of  gold  teeth  when  she  laughed,&quot;  Amy  said  afterward,  repeat-  ing  what  Mme.  Petropoulos  had  said.  &quot;And  clasping  her  hands  and  shaking     them  over  her  head  like  that  reminded  me  of  those  boxers  we  saw  on  the  tele-  vision.&quot;  &quot;You  saw,&quot;  Edith  said.  &quot;But  the  view-the  colors  changing  all  the  time  and  then  suddenly  the  lights  going  on  out  at  sea.&quot;  &quot;I  think  we  stayed  too  long.  I  kept  trying  to  catch  your  eye.&quot;  &quot;I  simply  forgot  time  existed.&quot;  Laura  could  hear  breakfast  trays  be-  ing  put  aside,  and  then  creakings  and  rustlings  about  the  room,  water  run-  ning.  She  lay  very  still  in  bed,  her  arms  laced  under  her  head,  and  wondered  what  to  do  with  her  day.  She  also  had  letters  of  introduction  and  invitations,  but  she  had  &amp;one  nothing  about  them.  The  habit  of  inertia  is  a  hard  one  to  shake  off;  the  sloth  of  mind  and  body  tor-  ments  as  it  takes  hold.  After  a  long  ill-  ness,  she  had  been  persuaded  by  her  par-  ents  to  go  away-perhaps  as  a  holiday  for  themselves  as  well.  For  her,  it  was  too  soon;  travel  had  not  broken  into  her  apathy.  Flying  in,  she  had  gazed  down  at  the  islands  with  indifference,  though  their  tawny  beauty  would  at  one  time  have  moved  her  to  tears.  Since  then,  she  had  wasted  the  holiday,  mooning  about  in  the  morning  sunshine,  lunching  at  the  same  place  every  day,  resting  in  the  afternoon.  It  was  a  much  more  real  holiday,  this  one  she  enjoyed  vicarious,  ly  through  the  bedroom  wall.  HEN  Amy  and  Edith  had  gone  out,  Laura  telephoned  for  her  own  breakfast  and  ate  it  sitting  up  in  the  hard  bed-spreading  the  pieces  of  dry  bread  with  melting  butter,  drinking  coffee  from  a  large,  thick  cup.  It  was  such  a  silence,  now  that  the  next  room  was  empty.  'They  had  gone  down  to  the  travel  agency  in  Con-  stitution  Square  to  arrange  a  trip  to  Mycenae.  I  ought  to  do  that,  Laura  thought.  As  things  were  turning  out,  she  would  have  nothing  to  say  for  herself  when  she  returned  home.  &quot;Did  you  go  there?  Did  you  see  such  and  such?&quot;  And  to  those  questions  she  would  say,  &quot;No,  no,  no,&quot;  her  voice  rising  irritably.  &quot;I  just  stayed  in  my  room  and  listened  to  two  old  ladies  chattering.&quot;  She  dressed  and  went  out  and  wan-  dered  about  the  busy  streets.  'The  day  was  well  on  for  other  people.  After  a  time,  she  found  herself  in  a  cool  flower  market  with  watered  pavings.  She  " b"walked  all  round  it,  breath-  ing  the  scented  air,  made  her  way  out  of  it  by  a  dif-  ferent  narrow  street,  and  soon  was  lost.  Some  build-  ings  looked  familiar  from  other,  similarly  aimless  wan-  derings,  but  she  could  form  no  pattern  from  them.  She  could  not  even  read  the  let-  ters  of  the  street  names,  or  those  above  shops.  The  feel-  ing  of  isolation  was  the  worst  she  had  suffered  since  her  illness,  and  she  was  ready  to  sit  down  on  some  church  steps  she  had  arrived  at  and  weep  until  someone  rescued  her.  She  was  too  much  of  a  burden  to  be  managed  by  herself  alone.  In  the  end,  she  found  a  taxi  and  was  driven  back  to  the  hotel.  When  she  reached  her  room,  she  was  a  little  comforted  to  find  that  Edith  and  Amy  had  also  returned,  were  busily  counting  coins,  as  they  did  after  all  their  ex-  peditions.  When  they  had  settled  every-  thing  fairly  down  to  the  last  drachma,  they  began  to  sort  out  the  picture  post-  cards  they  had  bought.  &quot;'There  is  quite  an  art  in  timing  them,&quot;  Edith  said  in  a  humorous  voice.  &quot;If  one  sends  them  off  too  soon,  one's  friends  areapt  to  think  one  is  at  a  loss  to  know  how  to  pass  the  time,  that  there  is  nothing  better  to  do,  that  one  can  only  think  of  people  back  home,  that  perhaps  one's  homesick.  Then,  too  late  seems  like  a  last-minute  thought  and  a  dread-  ful  risk  that  they  may  arrive  after  one  arrives  oneself.&quot;  &quot;I  think  now  is  just  about  right,&quot;  Amy  said.  -  &quot;And  another  thing  is  that  they  must  all  be  posted  together.  I  haven't  for-  gotten  that  rumpus  when  we  went  to  Rimini  and  some  people  in  the  village  got  them  early  and  others  thought  they  had  been  forgotten.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  think  we  might  send  Colonel  Benson's  off  a  little  earlier  than  the  rest?  After  all,  he's  been  so  kind.  It  would  be  a  small  mark  of  appreciation.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  a  couple  of  days,&quot;  Edith  conceded.  &quot;I  thought  this  one  of  the  evzones  for  him-it  was  about  the  nearest  I  could  find  to  anything  of  a  military  nature.&quot;  &quot;And  this  archaic  statue  for  Mrs.  Campion,  don't  you  think?  It  is  so  like  her  daughter-in-law.&quot;  &quot;Funny  that  that  smile  looks  so  beau-  tiful  on  a  statue,  and  is  simply  infuriat-  ing  on  a  real  person.&quot;   Laura,  lying  on  her  bed,  nodded  to  herself  and  smiled  a  different  smile.  &quot;We  will  go  after  tea  and  get  the  stamps,&quot;  said  Amy,  making  it  sound  quite  an  expedition.  So  somewhere,  Laura  thought,  they  had  organized  teatime,  as  they  had  organized  everything  else.  She  felt  ashamed  of  herself,  not  able  to  imagine  them  wanting  to  sit  down  on  the  steps  of  a  church  and  weep.  There  were  some  silences  in  the  next  room  whilee-Laura  supposed-they  wrote  their  postcards.  She  hoped  all  those  people  in  whatever  village  it  was  would  value  the  trouble  that  had  been  taken.  &quot;The  temple  of  Poseidon  #s  later  than  the  Parthenon,  isn't  it&quot;&quot;  asked  Edith.  &quot;I  am  almost  sure,  but  you  could  look  it  up.  Who  is  that  for?&quot;  &quot;The  vicar.&quot;  &quot;I  am  just  putting  personal  things.  Sitting  here  in  the  sun,  drinking  retsina.  &quot;  Laura  turned  her  face\xc2\xaeo  the  pillow,  laughing  silently.  &quot;But  you  aren't,&quot;  said  Edith.  &quot;Oh,  there  is  so  little  space  on  a  postcard,  and  so  much  to  say.&quot;  When  they  had  gone  out  to  tea,  Laura  had  a  shower  and  went  for  a    walk  in  the  Royal  Gardens.  Dusky,  dappled  light  was  shed  through  leaves  and  petals,  and  peacocks  stepped  fastidi-  ously  over  fallen,  rotting  oranges  under  the  trees.  She  sat  on  a  seat  and  watched  the  passersby-beautifully  dressed  ba-  bies  in  perambulators  pushed  by  Eng-  lish-looking  nannies  in  uniform,  young  couples  hand  in  hand,  older  men  wear-  ing  sunglasses,  swinging  key  rings,  treading  ponderously,  One  of  them  passed  several  times,  staring  at  her  with  curiosity,  buther  indifferent  English  air  puzzled  and  at  last  defeated  him.  The  sun  went  down  quickly,  and  when  she  got  up  at  last  and  came  out  of  the  Gardens,  the  temples  on  the  Acrop-  olis  had  turned  from  golden  to  a  shadowy  brown.  The  next  morning,  after  Alexis's  high-spirited  &quot;Good  morning,  ladies,&quot;  Laura  heard  Edith  and  Amy  &quot;mug-  ging  up&quot;  Mycenae  from  the  guidebook.  They  were  to  set  out  the  next  day,  early  in  the  morning,  and  Laura  decided  that  she,  too,  must  go  somewhere.  She  felt  like  knocking  on  the  wall  to  ask  them  where.  Delphi,  she  knew,  they  had  espe-  cially  enjoyed.  It  had  been  described  as  picturesque.  \xc2\xa9  'We  now  enter  a  circular  chamber  shaped  like  a  beehive,&quot;  Edith  read  from  the  guidebook,  in  a  voice  unlikethe  one  she  used  in  conversation.  &quot;I  can't  take  in  so  much  before-  hand,&quot;  Amy  complained.  &quot;I  like  to  read  about  it  efter  I've  been  there.&quot;  " b"&quot;And  I  don't  like  going  round  a  site  with  a  book  in  my  hands,&quot;  said  Edith.  She  then  must  have  dropped  the  guide-  book  to  the  floor,  because  Amy  ex-  claimed  about  the  pressed  flowers  that  had  fallen  out.  &quot;And  I  get  the  royal  family  so  muddled  up,&quot;  she  said,  breathing  rather  heavily,  perhaps  on  her  knees,  gather-  ing  up  wafery,  dry  wild  flowers.  &quot;Aga-  memnon  and  so  forth.&quot;  &quot;Perfectly  straightforward,&quot;  Edith  replied.  &quot;Agamemnon  returns  from  the  war;  Aegisthus  and  Clytemnestra  mur-  der  him;  Orestes  murders  Clytemnes-  tra;  Electra  ...&quot;  &quot;Your  hands!&quot;  interrupted  Amy.  &quot;Just  look  at  your  hands.  All  the  time  you  were  saying  that,  they  weren't  still  for  a  moment.  You  laugh  at  me;  but,  goodness,  you  are  even  worse.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  do  it  in  the  street,&quot;  said  Edith  coldly.  It  was  then  that  Laura,  diverted  and  off  guard,  suddenly  sneezed.  Reaching  for  a  handkerchief  to  stifle  it,  she  was  too  late,  and  knocked  over  a  glass  of  water.  There  was  a  deep,  long  silence  in  the  next  room.  She  imagined  them  staring  at  one  another,  hardly  daring  to  stir.  It  was  some  time  before  they  began  to  whisper  and  move  stealthily  about  the  room.  TTTING  in  the  bus,  on  her  way  back  from  Delphi,  Laura  wondered  how  Edith  and  Amy  had  enjoyed  Mycenae.  Enjoy  it  she  knew  they  would.  Their  enthusiasm  would  reduce  the  ancient  horrors;  dispassionately  they  would  relate  old  histories  as  if  describing  houseparties  at  Balmoral.  Laura  felt  put  to  shame  by  their  toughness.  At  Delphi,  brooded  over  by  towering  crags,  diminished,  overawed,  she  had  tried  to  put  herself  in  their  state  of  mind  in  the  same  place-happily  darting  from  one  wild  flower  to  an-  other,  describing  (as  they  had)  the  scenery  as  picturesquely  mountainous.  They  had  even  had  someone  sick  on  the  bus,  as  Laura  had,  but  were  led  by  this  simply  to  talk  of  national  character-  istics.  Greeks  had  poor  stomachs-they  had  known  this  beforehand;  hadn't  Colonel  Benson  himself  said  so?  When  she  reached  the  hotel,  Laura  found  flowers  in  her  room  and  an  invi-  tationto  a  party.  She  wondered  if  she  might  not  accept,  after  all.  The  jour-  ney  to  Delphi,  however  shattering,  had  been  a  beginning.  It  might  now  be  pleasant  totalk  again  to  someone  in  her  own  language.  Yet  she  had  not  been  so  very  lonely.  Edith  and  Amy  had  been  just  the  undemanding  company  she  would  have  wished  for,  and  she  hoped  that  they  were  not  still  talking  in  whispers  on  her  account.  She  awoke  early  the  next  morning,  and  there  was  silence  in  the  next  room.  She  lay  and  waited  for  the  coming  of  breakfast  and  the  beginnings  of  con-  versation.  Perhaps  they  have  finished  talking  about  Mycenae  by  now,  and     I  shall  never  find  out  about  it,  she  thought.  When  Alexis  came  along  the  passage  and  opened  the  door  of  the  next  room,  his  voice  was  less  warning  than  usual,  Laura  thought,  and  less  genial.  &quot;Good  morning,  good  morning,&quot;  he  called,  falsely  bright.  Someone  groaned  and  yawned.  &quot;Good  morning  to  you,&quot;  a  man's  voice  replied-an  American  voice.  Laura  was  quite  shocked.  As  soon  as  Alexis  had  gone  away  down  the  pas-  sage,  she  began  to  cough  sharply.  She  telephoned  for  her  breakfast,  making  as  much  noise  about  it  as  she  could  when  it  arrived.  So  they  have  gone,  she  thought.  They  have  moved  on  somewhere  else  and  soon  will  follow  their  postcards  back  home,  and  Colonel  Benson  will  hear  about  Mycenae  and  the  rest,  not  I. "