 THE  PENNY  CCORDING  to  a  placard  I  saw  A  the  other  day  in  a  lobby  win-  dow  ofthe  newly  completed  New  York  [REDACTED],  the  hotel  is  to  be  dedi-  cated-not  merely  opened,  mind  you,  like  an  ordinary  hotel,  but  dedicated,  like  a  public  monument-at  high  noon  on  June  26th.  The  placard  noted  that  Con-  rad43616e616461  and  a  lot  of  other  digni-  taries  would  be  flying  in  from  far  cor-  ners  of  the  earth  for  the  occasion.  No  doubt  it'll  bea  festive  time  for  them,  and  for  plenty  of  local  dignitaries  as  well,  but  it  won't  for  me.  Even  before  it  has  opened-I  mean,  been  dedicated-I've  developed  a  personal  grudge  against  the  [REDACTED].  Month  after  month,  I've  watched  the  shiny  new  structure  lifting  itself  out  of  the  huge  hole  between  Fifty-  fourth  Street  and  Fifty-fifth  Street,  on  the  west  side  of  Sixth  Avenue,  and  have  wished-oh,  not  that  it  would  fall  down,  but  that  the  blockfront  were  still  made  up  of  the  ancient,  dowdy  brownstones  that  stood  there  a  couple  of  years  ago.  This  wish  isn't  just  a  matter  of  liking  old  things  better  than  new;  I've  a  private  reason  for  particularly  disliking  the  Hil-  ton  building,  and  the  reason  is  that  it  has  robbed  me  of  the  only  immortality  I've  ever  imagined  for  myself-a  nice,  small,  cozy  immortality,  no  less  important  to  me  because  it  was  practically  anony-  mous.  My  joy  in  this  immortality  has  been  simple,  and  perhaps  even  slightly  simple-minded;  it  consisted  in  knowing  that  my  initials  were  cut  in  the  concrete  sidewalk  in  frontof  one  of  those  old  brownstones.  The  letters  had  been  put  there  on  the  day  of  my  birth,  twenty-  one  years  ago,  and  they  remained  there  until  this  spring,  when  a  gang  of  men  with  air  hammers  came  along  and  start-  ed  breaking  up  the  pavement.  Needless  to  say,  I  didn't  put  the  in-  itials  there,  as  a  newborn  infant;  the  deed  was  perpetrated  by  my  uncle,  who  was  then  a  young  free-lance  photog-  rapher  living  in  abuilding  on  the  east  side  of  the  avenue.  Because  he  was  young  and  new  to  his  profession,  he  had  lots  of  spare  time,  much  of  which  he  spent  at  his  windows,  watching  neigh-  borhood  goings  on.  The  day  I  was  born,  he  happened  to  be  watching  some  men  as  they  mixed  and  poured  a  batch  of  fresh  concrete  for  a  sidewalk  across  the  way.  My  uncle  was  enchanted  by  the  sight  (it's  the  sort  of  sight  that  still  en-  chants  him,  though  he  hasn't  much  time  these  days  to  be  enchanted  in),  and,  for  all  I  know,  it  may  have  occurred  to  him  to  wishhe  were  a  child  again,  free  to  scratch  some  proof  of  his  existence  on  that  unmarked  page.  In  any  event,  hav-   ing  heard  from  my  father  that  I'd  been  born,  and  having  been  out  at  a  late  party,  he  came  home  that  night  by  way  of  the  new  sidewalkand,  as  a  gift  to  an  equally  new  niece-a  gift  that  was  also,  for  him,  an  excuse  for  an  act  of  boyish  derring-  do-drew  an  &quot;E.&quot;  and  a  &quot;B.&quot;  in  the  marvellous  wet  stuff.  MY  uncle  must  have  taken  great  pains  with  those  initials.  Though  his  instrument  was  only  the  tip  of  an  ordinary  pencil,  he  incised  them  so  deep-  ly  and  trimly  that,  after  two  decades,  they  showed  not  a  trace  of  wear.  My  family  and  I  live  a  couple  of  blocks  from  the  sacred  spot,  and  over  the  years  I  have  paid  many  a  fond  visit  to  my  initials.  For  some  reason,  I  kept  them  a  secret  from  all  my  friends  at  school.  Doing  an  errand  in  the  neighborhood,  I  often  per-  suaded  a  classmate  to  make  what  seemed  to  her  an  utterly  meaningless  detour,  in  order  for  me  to  take  in  that  undistin-  guished-looking  stretch  of  pavement.  (A  grubby  bar  occupied  the  ground  floor  of  the  brownstone  facing  it.)  I  was  especially  pleased  whenever  I  hap-  pened  to  encounter  a  passerby  studying  my  initials.  To  think  that  I  knew  whose  initials  they  were  and  that  he  didn't!  It  seemed  all  the  more  desirable  to  keep  my  first  birthday  present  a  private  glory  because  it  was  so  public;  I  didn't  want  to  share  it  with  a  soul.  With  one  exception,  and  that  was  a  person  I'd  never  met.  Ours  is  a  theatri-  cal  neighborhood,  much  given  to  gossip  of  the  good  old  days,  and  little  by  little  a  legend  grew  that  my  &quot;E.B.&quot;  stood  for  the  great  Ethel  Barrymore.  Once,  coming  home  from  college  and  stop-  ping  in  at  a  drugstore  near  the  site,  I  heard  the  old  man  behind  the  cigar  counter  telling  a  customer  how  Ethel  Barrymore  herself  had  cut  them  there-&quot;back  in  the  nineties,  it  [REDACTED];  he  said,  with  an  old  man's  solemn  con-  viction,  and  to  my  astonishment  I  felt  no  impulse  to  correct  him.  I  was  pre-  pared  to  lend  my  initials  to  Ethel  Barry-  more,  anyway  for  the  time  being;  she  had  died  the  year  before,  and  the  least  I  could  do  in  her  honor  was  to  shore  up  her  immortality  with  mine.  And  then  the  blow  fell  on  Miss  Barrymore  and  me,  for  the  whole  block  was  boughtup  and  the  brownstones  torn  down  and  the  hole  dug  and  the  hotel  started,  and  in  March  of  this  year  the  time  came  tolay  a  new  and  grander  sidewalk,  worthy  of  Mr.  [REDACTED]  and  his  far-flung  friends.  One  morning,  I  stood  and  watched,  uncle-like,  as  the  sidewalk  was  broken  up;  silently,  unable  to  pro-  test,  I  saw  the  chunk  bearing  my  &quot;E.B.&quot;  loaded  onto  a  truck  and  carted  away,     probably  to  be  dumped  in  the  harbor.  A  few  days  later,  a  gang  of  men  arrived  to  lay  the  new  sidewalk.  Summoning  my  courage,  I  approached  one  of  the  men  and  awkwardly  confessed  the  no  longer  valuable  secret  of  my  initials  in  the  vanished  sidewalk.  Could  I,  by  any  chance,  please,  please  be  permitted  to  scratch  a  set  of  initials  in  the  concrete  after  he  poured  it?  Theman  was  very  polite;  I  could  almosthear  him  telling  himself  that  in  New  York  you  meet  all  kinds,  but  his  actual  words  were  to  the  effect  that  while  he'dbe  glad  to  let  me  do  so,  it  wouldn't  be  of  any  use,  because  the  moment  the  boss  spotted  the  initials  he'd  order  them  rubbed  out.  Then,  reading  my  mind,  he  added  that  there  was  always  a  night  watchman  on  duty  and  that  I  mustn't  think  of  trying  anything  after  he  and  the  other  men  went  home.  Having  thus  dashed  my  hopes,  he  took  pity  on  me  and  said  gently  that  I  might,  if  Iliked,  press  a  penny  into  one  corner  of  the  sidewalk.  Glancing  through  my  handbag,  I  fished  up  a  fairly  bright  1960  penny  and  placed  it  in  the  wet  concrete,  a  few  inches  in  from  the  curb.  I  thanked  the  man  for  his  kindness  and  went  off  with  a  comparatively  light  heart-that  sec-  tion  of  Sixth  Avenue  was  still,  in  a  secret  fashion,  mine.  But  my  joy  was  short-  lived;  when,  a  couple  of  days  later,  I  passed  the  site,  I  found  that  the  pen-  ny  had  been  covered  over.  Either  the  boss  had  come  along  and  ordered  it  covered  or  the  man  himself  had  merely  been  placating  me.  At  any  rate,  I  had  lost,  for  a  secret  and  yet  visible  immor-  tality  is  one  thing,  but  a  secret  immortal-  ity  that  has  been  buried  an  inch  or  so  deep  in  solid  concrete  is  quite  another.  