 b"THE  furnished  flat  in  a  [REDACTED]  I  suburb  fell  vacant  on  a  Monday,  and  Hilda  Provis,  having  col-  lected  the  key  from  the  agents  in  the  High  Street,  walked  down  the  hill  to-  ward  No.  20.  It  was  half  past  eleven  in  the  morning  and  early  summer.  In  the  quiet  road,  houses-some  quite  large-stood  in  dusty  gardens  full  of  May  trees  and  laburnums,  past  blossom-  ing.  'There  had  been  no  rain  for  a  fort-  night  and,  in  the  gutters  and  under  garden  walls,  drifts  of  powdery  dead  petals  and  seeds  had  collected.  The  air  had  a  dry,  polleny  smell.  It  was  a  strange  land  to  Hilda,  and  a  great  adventure.  She  was  to  be  here  for  a  week,  to  see  her  daughter  settled  into  the  flat;  had  quite  insisted  on  coming;  had  been  obliged  to  insist,  for  Pat  had  thought  she  could  manage  very  well  on  her  own,  and  had  begged  her  mother  not  to  put  herself  to  so  much  trouble,  coming  so  far-from  the  country  near  Nottingham,  in  fact.  There  was  no  need,  she  had  written.  But  Hilda  des-  perately  maintained  that  there  was.  When  Pat  first  went  to  work  in  Lon-  don,  living  there  in  a  hostel,  Hilda,  left  alone  and  nervous  at  night,  moved  to  her  sister's,  thinking  that  anything  was  better  than  seeming  to  hear  burglars  all  the  time;  but  she  and  her  brother-in-law  did  not  get  on  well  together,  and  she  longed  for  a  home  of  her  own  and  to  have  her  daughter  back.  It  was  with  a  joyful  excitement  that  she  descended  the  hill  this  morning  and  pushed  open  the  heavy  gate  of  No.  20.  It  was  a  tall  house  with  a  flight  of  steps  to  the  front  door  and  be-  low  them  a  basement  area.  The  garden  was  neglected,  growing  only  ferns  and  the  grass  between  the  broken  tiles  of  the  path.  The  lawn  at  the  back  was  on  a  lower  level-in  fact,  the  house  was  found  to  be  built  on  a  hillside.  Down  below,  beyond  the  roofs  of  other  houses,  was  [REDACTED]  itself-gray  but  for  one  or  two  bone-white  church  spires,  sudden    glitterings  from  win-  C  dows  or  weather  vanes  struck  by  the  sun,  and  one  green  dome  float-  ing  in  haze.\n\n Hilda  stood  by  the  side  door  with  the  key  in  her  hand  and  looked  down  at  the  view.  It  is  a  panorama,  she  thought;  that  really  is  the  word  for  it.  She  could  imagine  it  at  night-dazzling  it  would  be.  She  had  never  seen  anything  like  it.  Life  teemed  down  there-traffic  strove  to  disentangle  itself,  Pat  pounded  her  typewriter-but  to  Hilda  it  was  a  lulled  and  dormant  city,  under  its  nearly  mid-  day  haze,  nothing  doing,  nothing  stir-  ring.  She  couldnot  imagine  anything  happening  beneath  those  pigeon-colored  roofs  going  down,  street  after  street,  lower  and  lower  into  the  smoky  mist.  After  the  brilliant  out-of-doors,  she  was  hit  by  cold  dismay  when  she  un-  locked  the  door  and  stepped  inside-  such  darkness,  such  an  unfriendly  smell  of  other  people's  belongings.  The  flat  was  clean,  butnot  up  to  Hilda's  stand-  ards.  She  went  from  the  hall  into  a  kitchen.  The  previous  tenants  had  left  remains-a  little  flour  in  a  bin,  some  sugar  in  a  jar,  a  worn-out  dishcloth,  and  a  piece  of  dirty  soap.  She  disposed  of  these  before  taking  off  her  hat.  A  spider  sat  in  the  sink  and  she  swilled  it  down  the  drain.  The  living-room  window  looked  into  the  area.  She  opened  it  and  let  in  the  sound  of  footsteps  on  the  pavement  above.  Furniture  was  either  black  and  in  the  Jacobean  style  or  Indian  with  trelliswork  and  brass.  So  many  twisted  chair  legs  needing  a  polish.  A  green  stain  had  been  allowed  to  spread  from  bath  taps  to  the  plug  hole,  but  Hilda  knew  a  way  of  removing  it.  The  bed-  room  was  full  of  sunshine,  for  the  smeared  windows  looked  out  over  the  lawn  at  the  back  and  at  the  panorama  beyond  it.  It  smelled  of  sun-warmed  carpet  and  cushion  dust.  She  opened  the  windows,  and  then  the  drawers  of  the  chest.  They  were  lined  with  old  paper  and  there  were  oddments  left  behind  in  most  of  them-curtain  rings,  safety  pins,  a  strip  of  beading  which  she  could  see  had  fallenoff  the  wardrobe.  This  she  could  glue  on  again,  though  it  was  not  her  duty  to  do  so.  Of  the  two  beds,  she  thought  Pat  would  prefer  the  oneby  the  window.  In  the  afternoon,  she  went  shopping.  The  street  where  the  shops  were  climbed  steeply  toward  the  heath  and,  turning  corners,  looking  down  side  streets,  she  was  sometimes  surprised  by  a  sudden  openness,  and  glimpsed  from  different  sides  the  city  below.  Everything  she  bought  added  to  her  pleasure  and  excitement.  She  was  re-  minded  of  being  a  bride  again.  It  seemed  a  long  time  since  she  had  planned  a  meal  or  chosen  a  piece  of  fish  or  done  any-  thing  on  her  own.  Knowing  no  one  in  the  shops,  she  felt  shy;  buther  loneliness  was  wonderful  to  her,  and  her  slow  pace,  as  she  sauntered  along,  was  tuned  to  it.  The  leisurely  afternoon  was  very  pleasant.  Babies  lay  awake  under  the  canopies  of  their  perambulators,  staring  sternly  upward,  mak-  ing  purling  sounds  like  doves,  or  fidgeted,  turn-  ing  their  wrists  impa-  tiently,  arching  their  backs,  and  thrusting  limbs  out  into  the  sun-  shine.  Hilda  peeped  at  each  one,  stooped  to  look  under  the  cano-  pies,  and  blew  kisses.  If  she  had  been  childless  herself,  she  thought,  she  must  have  looked  in  an-  other  direction.  As  it  was,  she  just  felt  mo-  mentarily  wistful;  it  was  nothing  distressing.  The  young  mothers  all  paused  for  her,  quite  patient  while  they  shared  their  marvels.  Everything  glittered  in  the  fine  air  of  this  high  suburb.  A  warm,  rubbery  puff  of  air  flowed  out  from  the  [REDACTED]  station  at  the  crossroads;  and  out  " b"of  it,  too,in  a  couple  of  hours,  Pat  would  hasten-  on  a  tide  of  rush-hour  work-  ers,  gradually  thinning  themselves  out  in  different  directions,  she  down  the  hill  under  the  trees  to  No.  20.  Outside  a  greengrocer's,  on  the  wide  pavement,  was  a  stall  of  bedding  plants,  and  although  her  basket  was  full,  Hilda  stopped  to  buy  a  pot  of  bright-red  double  daisies  (&quot;chubby  daisies,  Pathad  called  them  when  she  was  a  little  girl).  She  was  tired,  for  she  had  scoured  the  bath,  and  polished  all  the  curly  furn  ture,  and  was  not  used  to  doing  so  much.  At  her  sister's,  she  was  inclined  to  indispositions  and  began  most  days  with  a  health  bul-  letin,  which  was  taken  in  silence-discourteously,  she  thought.  They  were  selfish  people,  her  sister  and  broth-  er-in-law,  she  had  long  ago  decided;  too  much  wrapped  up  in  themselves,  in  the  manner  of  childless  peo-  ple.  The  front  door  of  No.  20  was  open,  and  there  were  sounds  of  life.  A  toddler  with  wide-apart  legs,  nap-  kins  dropping,  came  onto  the  steps;  then  an  arm  swooped  after  him  and  lifted  him  back  out  of  sight.  I  could  get  to  know  them,  Hilda  thought.  I  could  keep  an  ear  open  for  the  baby  while  they  went  for  a  stroll  in  the  evening.  She  even  chose  a  pub  in  which  they-whoever  they  were-could  sit  and  have  a  quiet  drink.  She  had  noticed  a  nice  one  on  her  walk  home  from  the  shops;  it  had  a  horse's  trough  outside  and  a  chestnut  tree-like  a  country  pub.  The  flat  was  cool  and  smelled  better  now.  She  had  discovered  that  other  peo-  ple's  belongings  were  more  interesting  than  her  own-which  by  now  were  so  familiar  as  to  be  invisible.  She  had  inno-  vated,  improvised  with  the  material  to  hand,  and  was  pleased  with  the  effect.  Unpacking  her  basket,  stacking  food  on  bare  shelves,  she  remembered  her  first  home,  her  first  shopping-such  a  young  bride  she  had  been  that  she  had  thought  of  it  as  running  the  errands,  until  the  moving  truth  had  dawned  on  her  that  she  henceforward  must  choose,  and  pay  for,  and  bring  home.  Again,  after  all  those  years,  she  had  a  feeling  of  being watched,  of  not  being  entirely  spontane-  ous.  Methodically,  she  put  the  food  away,  washed  some  lettuce,  found  a  saucer  for  the  pot  of  daisies,  and  began  to  lay  the  table  for  supper.  &quot;Hilda's  managing  well,&quot;  she  seemed  to  hear  a  voice  say.  It  was  as  if  she  were  doing  everything  for  the  first  time.  The  evening  began  to  go  slowly.  She  wandered  about,  waiting  for  Pat,  put-  ting  finishing  touches,  glancing  at  the  clock,  straightening  pictures  (Too  aw-  ful,  she  thought-heathery  moorlands,  a  rosy  glow  on  the  Alps),  turning  the  chipped  side  of  avase  to  the  wall.  She  would  have  liked  to  unpack  the  big  suitcase  which  had  arrived  from  the  hostel,  but  she  had  done  this  for  her  daughter  before,  and  been  told  that  she  was  interfering.  She  sat  down  in  the  living  room,  and  stared  out  of  the  window,  waiting  for  Pat's  legsto  appear  above  the  area.  She  was  by  now  quite  nervous  with  antici-  pation,  and  felt  that  the  girl  would  nev-  er  come.  As  long-awaited  people  come  in  the  end  as  a  surprise,  so  Pat  did.  &quot;Hello,  dear,&quot;  Hilda  said,  almost  shyly,  when  she  had  hurried  to  open  the  door.  &quot;My  feet!&quot;  Pat  said,  flopping  into  a  chair,  dropping  gloves  and  parcels  on  the  floor.  She  kicked  off  her  shoes  and  stared  down  at  her  large,  bare,  mot-  tled  feet.  Her  heaviness-of  bone  and  features-suggested  sculpture.  &quot;Seated  Woman,&quot;  she  might  have  been,  glumly  motionless.  &quot;Did  you  have  a  bad  day?&quot;  Hilda  asked  timidly.  &quot;Oh,  I  had  a  bad  day,  all  right,&quot;  Pat  said,  as  if  this  went  without  saying.  She  leaned  back  now  &quot;Reclining  Woman&quot;-and  shook  a  lock  of  hair  off  " b"her  forehead.  &quot;'That  [REDACTED];  She  yawned  and  her  eyes  watered.  Even  looking  at  her  made  Hilda  feel  weary.  The  man  was  Mr.  Wharton,  Pat's  employer-a  big  Masonic  Golfer,  as  she  described  him.  He  had  a  habit  of  returning  from  lunch  at  half  past  three  and  then  would  dictate  letters  at  a  great  rate  to  make  up  for  lost  time,  and  Pat,  trying  at  the  end  of  the  day  to  keep  up,  was  worn  out,  she  said,  by  the  time  she  left  to  join  the  rush-  hour  traffic.  Mr.  Wharton  was  a  very  real  person  to  Hilda,  who  had  never  seen  him.  &quot;Inconsiderate,&quot;  she  said,  made  quite  indignant  by  Pat's  long  plaint.  &quot;Comes  back  reeking-face  the  col-  or  of  those  daisies.&quot;  &quot;Disgusting,&quot;  Hilda  murmured,  fol-  lowing  Pat's  glance.  &quot;I  bought  them  this  afternoon.  'Chubby  daisies,&quot;  you  used  to  call  them.&quot;  &quot;Did  I?&quot;  Pat  was  not  so  much  in  love  with  herself  as  a  child  as  her  mother  was,  and  Hilda  always  found  this  indif-  ference  strange.  &quot;Expense  accounts,&quot;  Pat  went  on,  and  blew  out  her  lips  in  contempt.  &quot;Eat  and  drink  themselves  stupid,  and  then  go  home  and  tell  their  wives  what  a  hard  day  they've  had.  Well,  it  all  looks  very  nice,&quot;  she  said  at  last,  glancing  round.  &quot;Even  my  cardi-  gan  smells  of  his  bloody  cigars.&quot;  She  sniffed  at  her  sleeve  with  distaste.  &quot;You  literally  can't  see  across  the  office.&quot;  A  huge  man,  like  a  bison,  Hilda  vis-  ualized.  She  felt  great  respect  for  her  daughter,  cooped  up  in  that  blue  haze  with  such  a  character-managing  him,  too,  with  her  icy  reminders,  her  appear-  ance  at  other  times  of  praying  for  pa-  tience,  her  eyes  closed,  her  pencil  tap-  ping  her  teeth.  Hilda  could  see  it  all  from  her  descriptions-Pat  giving  him  one  of  her  looks  and  saying  briskly,  &quot;Do  you  mind,&quot;  when  he  stood  too  close  to  her.  It  was  not  a  question.  Mother  and  daughter  had  changed  places,  Hilda  sometimes  thought.  She  felt  like  a  young  girl  in  the  shade  of  Pat's  knowledge  of  the  world.  Yet  once  she  herself  had  worked  for  her  living-  serving  in  a  milliner's  shop,  full  of  anxi-  cties,  trying  to  oblige,  so  afraid  of  dis-  pleasing  and  being  dismissed.  To  earn  one's  livelihood  is  a  precarious  affair,  and  even  Pat  would  say,  &quot;Well,  if  I  can  hold  down  a  job  like  that  for  all  these  years  ..  .&quot;  She  held  it  down  firmly,  her  clever  eyes  on  those  who  might  try  to  snatch  it  from  her,  but  she  made  it  sound  a  desperate  business.  &quot;Well,  it's  nice  not  to  be  in  that  per-  ishing  hostel,&quot;  she  said.  Hilda  glowed  with  pleasure  when  they  sat  down  at  the  table  and  Pat  began  to  eat,  as  if  she  were  quite  content  to  be  where  she  was. &quot;Canteens!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  Lord  pre-  serve  me  from  them.  Tinned  pilchards.  Cottage  pie.  Never  again.&quot;  Hilda  had  been  worried  for  years  about  the  food,  especially  as  she  had  heard  about  working  girls  in  [REDACTED]  going  without  lunch-window-shop-  ping  or  having  their  hair  done  instead.  It  will  all  be  different  now,  she  thought,  watching  Pat's  knife  and  fork  slashing  crisscross  at  the  food,  which,  though  not  commented  on,  seemed  to  be  approved.  I  can't  at  her  age,  Hilda  thought,  tell  her  not  to  talk  with  her  mouth  full-  for  all  the  time  the  knife  and  fork  were  shredding  and  spearing  and  popping  things  into  her  mouth,  Pat  was  describ-  ing  Mr.  Wharton's  private  life.  Hilda  found  it  all  trivial  and  uninteresting.  She  did  not  care  enough  to  try  to  visual-  ize  Mr.  Wharton  gardening  on  Satur-  day,  playing  golf  on  Sunday,  and  going  to  cocktail  parties,  of  which  there  seemed  to  be  so  many  in  the  Green  Belt,  where  he  lived.  She  saw  him  more  clearly  in  his  smoke-filled  office.  &quot;I  met  his  wife  once,&quot;  Pat  said.  &quot;She  came  to  call  for  him  and  they  went  out  to  lunch.  Very  dowdy.  I'll  give  you  a  hand,&quot;  she  added,  and  stirred  slightly  as  Hilda  began  to  stack  up  plates.  &quot;No,  you  sit  still.  Make  the  most  of  it  while  I'm  here.&quot;  But  Hilda  had  be-  gun  tobelieve  that  she  would  never  go.  She  would  make  herself  so  useful.  &quot;Iwish  I  had  your  figure,&quot;  Pat  said,  watching  her  mother  moving  neatly  about  the  room.  She  said  it  in  a  grudg-     ing  voice,  as  if  Hilda  had  meanly  kept  something  for  herself  which  she,  Pat,  would  have  liked  to  possess.  It  was  not  and  had  not  been  the  pattern  of  their  lives  for  this  to  happen.  Hilda  blushed  with  guilty  pleasure.  There  was  something  so  sedentary  about  her  daughter-not  only  because  of  her  office  job,  for  as  a  child  she  had  sat  about  all  the  time,  reading  comics,  chewing  her  handkerchief,  twisting  her  braided  hair,  very  often  just  lethargical-  ly  sulking.  At  this  moment,  she  was  slumped  back  in  her  chair,  eating  a  banana,  the  skin  of  it  hanging  down  in  strips  over  her  hand.  &quot;I  might  bring  Mavis  Willis  back  tomorrow  evening,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;She's  thinking  of  sharing  the  flat  with  me.Let  her  have  a  look  round  and  make  up  her  mind.&quot;  She  got  up  and  went  to  the  area  window  and  looked  meditatively  up  at  the  railings.  &quot;Quiet  here,  isn't  it?&quot;she  said.  She  stayed  there  for  a  long  time,  just  gazing  out  ofthe  window,  and  Hilda,  clearing  the  table,  wondered  what  she  was  thinking.  MAVIS  WiIcLts  was  a  young  woman  of  much  refinement,  and  Hilda,  watching  her  eat  her  supper  daintily,  was  taken  by  her  manners.  A  rather  old-fashioned  type  of  girl,  Hilda  thought.  If  she  had  been  asked  to,  she  couldnot  have  chosen  anyone  more  suitable  to  share  the  flat  with  her  daugh-  ter.  This  one  would  not  lead  her  into  bad  company  or  have  wild  parties;  but  Hilda  had  not  been  asked,  and  it  was  a  disappointment  to  her  that  the  question  had  arisen.  When  Mavis  had  been  shown  round  the  flat  before  supper,  something  in  her  manner  had  surprised  Hilda;  there  was  " b" a  sense  of  effort  she  could  not  define.  The  girl  had  gushed  without  showing  much  interest,  had  given  the  bathroom  the  briefest  glance,  and  had  not  opened  the  cupboard  where  she  would  be  hang,  ing  her  clothes-the  first  thing  any  nor-  mal  young  woman  would  do.  Now,  at  supper,  she  gushed  in  the  same  way  about  Hilda's  cooking.  Pat's  compulsive  grumbling  about  Mr.  Wharton  was  resumed,  and  Mavis  joined  in.  She  referred  to  him  as  &quot;H.  W.&quot;-which  sounded  more  officy,  Hilda  decided,  listening  humbly.  &quot;One  of  these  days,  you'll  find  your-  self  out  ofa  job,&quot;&quot;  she  told  Pat,  who  had  repeated  one  of  her  tarter  rebukes  to  her  employer-&quot;I  gave  him  one  of  my  looks  and  I  said  to  him,  'That'll  be  the  day,&quot;  I  said,  'when  you  get  back  before  three  o'clock,  We'll  hang  the  flags  out  thet  day,'  I  said  to  him.&quot;  Mavis  took  off  her  spectacles  and  be-  gan  topolish  them  on  a  clean  handker-  chief  she  kept  tucked  in  her  cuff.  She  looked  down  her  shiny  nose,  smiling  a  little.  Her  face  was  pale  and  glistened  unhealthily,  and  she  reminded  Hilda  of  the  languid,  indoors  young  women  who  sat  all  day-long  days  then-in  the  milliner's  workroom,  stitching  buckram  and  straw  and  flowers,  hardly  moving,  sadly  cooped  up  in  the  stuffy  room.  She,  in  the  shop  itself,  had  seemed  asfree  as  air.  Mavis  put  back  her  spectacles  and  re-  arranged  her  hair,  and  at  once  she  ap-  peared  less  secretive.  She  insisted  on  helping  Hilda  to  wash  the  dishes,  while  Pat  spent  the  time  looking  for  cigarettes  and  then  for  her  lighter.  &quot;I  hope  Pat  won't  leave  all  the  work  to  you,  if  you  come,&quot;  Hilda  said.  &quot;Oh,  she  won't.&quot;  Mavis  wiped  a  glass  and  held  it  up  to  the  light.  &quot;Once  we're  on  our  own,  she'll  be  enthusiastic.  You  know,  she'll  feel  it's  more  hers  and  want  to  takea  pride  in  it.  Of  course,  it's  been  wonderful  forher,  having  you  to  settle  her  in  and  get  it  looking  so  nice.  Simply  wonderful.  You  must  have  done  marvels.&quot;  She  looked  vaguely  round  the  kitchen.  &quot;Well,  it  was  in  rather  a  state,&quot;  Hilda  said  warmly.  &quot;All  I  hope  is  you  won't  just  live  on  tinned  food.&quot;  'You  can  rest  assured  we  won't.&quot;  &quot;I'm  afraid  Pat  hasn't  been  brought  up  to  be  very  domesticated.  I  did  try  to  show  her  things,  but  I  ended  up  doing  thingsmyself,  because  it  was  quicker.&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  always  happens.  I  know  I'd  be  the  same.&quot;  Pat,  in  the  living  room,  was  looking  for  an  ashtray.  She  moved  clumsily  about,  knocked  into  something  and  swore.  Hilda  and  Mavis  glanced  at  one  another  and  smiled,  as  if  over  a  child's  head.  @*  HAT  did  you  think  of  her?&quot;  Pat  asked,  as  soon  as  she  got  back  from  walking  with  Mavis  to  the  Tube  station.  &quot;A  nice  girl.  I  thought  slightly  enigmatic,&quot;  said  Hilda,  who  took  a  pride  in  finding  the  right  word.  Well,  she's  decided  to  move  in  next  Monday.  I  said  I  thought  you'd  be  go-  ing  back  at  the  weekend.&quot;  &quot;I  might  stay  and  clear  up  on  Mon-  day  morning.  Leave  you  a  little  sup-  per,  her  first  night,&quot;  Hilda  said,  and  pretended  she  did  not  hear  a  resigned  intakeof  breath  from  Pat.  That  girl  Mavis,  Hilda  was  think-  ing-perhaps  she's  no  intention  of  com-  ing;  perhaps  she's  wasting  Pat'stime.  Yet  she  sensed  something  arranged  be-  tween  them,  something  she  could  not  " b"understand.  She  used  the  word  &quot;duplic-  ity&quot;  in  her  mind.  They  began  to  get  ready  for  bed,  and  when  Pat,  stout  in  her  dressing  gown,  came  from  the  bathroom  into  the  bed-  room,  she  found  the  room  in  darkness  and  her  mother  peeping  through  the  curtains  of  the  French  windows.  &quot;What  are  you  doing,  Mother?&quot;  she  asked,  switching  on  the  light.  As  guilty  as  a  little  girl  caught  out  of  bed,  Hilda  made  for  hers.  &quot;I  really  love  [REDACTED],&quot;  she  said.  &quot;All  that  panorama,  at  night,  and  yet  it's  so  quiet.  I  sat  out  there  this  after-  noon  for  a  bit,  and  it  was  so  peaceful,  like  being  in  the  country.  It's  been  like  a  lovely  holiday  here.&quot;  &quot;It's  been  good  of  you  to  come,&quot;  Pat  said,  in  acautious  voice.  When  she  had  switched  the  light  off,  her  mother  turned  on  her  side,  puther  hands  under  her  cheek,  and  with  faint  purring,  puffing  sounds  fell  lightly  asleep.  Pat  lay  on  her  back  like  a  figure  on  a  tomb,  and  presently  began  to  snore.  N  Hilda's  last  day,  it  set  in  wet,  and  she  could  not  go  into  the  garden  again.  She  went  out  shopping  in  the  rain,  said  goodbye  to  the  shop  assistants  she  had  made  friends  of,  and  thought  how  extraordinary  it  was  that  the  little  High  Street  had  become  so  familiar  in  such  ashort  time.  The  view  was  ob-  scured  by  mist.  But  the  holiday  feeling  persisted  and  at  twelve  o'clock  she  en-  tered  the  saloon  bar  of  the  little  pub  by  the  water  trough  and  bought  herself  a  glass  of  sherry.  She  had  never  entered  a  bar  alone  before,  and  was  gratified  that  no  one  seemed  surprised  to  see  her  do  so.  The  barmaid  was  warmly  chatty,  the  landlord  courteous;  an  old  man  by  the  fire  did  not  even  raise  his  head.  A  stale  beery  smell  pervaded  the  room,  as  if  everything-the  heavy  curtains,  the  varnished  furniture,  even  perhaps  the  old  man  by  the  firee-was  gently  fer-  menting.  &quot;So  cozy,&quot;  said  Hilda.  &quot;A  day  like  this,&quot;  the  barmaid  agreed,  scalloping  a  damp  cloth  along  the  bar.  &quot;A  fire's  nice.&quot;  &quot;It  makes  a  difference.  hereabouts?&quot;  Hilda  told  her  about  Pat  and  the  flat,  and  Mavis  Willis.  &quot;'Nice  to  have  a  mother,  maid  said.  &quot;I  think  she  appreciates  it.  But  I've  enjoyed  myself.  It's  made  a  lovely  break.  I'd  like  a  bottle  of  sherry  to  take  away,  if  you  please.  I'll  leave  it  as  a  surprise  for  the  girls-warm  them  up  when  they  come  in  wet  from  work.&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  said  the  barmaid,  wrapping  the  bottle  in  a  swirl  of  pink  paper,  &quot;let's  hope  we  see  you  when  you're  in  these  parts  again.&quot;  &quot;Good  morning,  Madam.  Thank  you,&quot;  the  landlord  added,  and  Hilda,  with  her  heavy  shopping  basket,  stepped  out  into  the  rain.  How  very  pleasant,  she  was  thinking,  rather  muzzily,  as  she  walked  down  the  hill.  The  only  pity  was  not  having  made  friends  with  the  people  on  the  first  floor.  Glimpses  of  the  toddler  she  had  had  from  time  to  time,  and  she  had  heard  his  little  foot-  steps  running  overhead,but  she  had  not  had  a  word  with  his  mother.  That  had  been  a  disappointment.  You  live  H  the  bar-  She  made  herself  a  cup  of  tea  when  she  had  hung  up  her  wet  coat.  The  flat  was  so  dark  that  afternoon  that  she  had  to  switch  on  the  lights.  The  rain  seemed  to  keep  her  company,  as  a  coal  fire  does  the  very  lonely-  the  sound  of  it  falling  softly  into  the  ferns  in  the  garden,  or  with  a  sharp,  ringing  noise  on  the  dustbin  lids  out-  side  the  door,.  She  could  hear  the  splashing  of  cars  going  by  on  the  road  above  the  window,  changing  gear  to  take  the  hill.  Although  she  felt  sad,  packing  her  case,  she  cheered  up  when  she  was  putting  the  finishing  touches  to  the  sup-  per  table,  leaving  the  sherry  on  a  tray  with  a  note  and  two  glasses.  She  watered  the  double  daisies  and  added  a  reminder  about  them  to  her  note.  At  three  o'clock,  she  put  on  her  still  damp  coat  and  was  ready  to  go  to  the  station.  She  locked  the  door  and  hidthe  key  un-  der  the  dustbin  as  they  had  arranged,  and,  feeling  melancholy,  in  tune  with  the  afternoon,  walked  with  head  bowed,  carrying  her  heavy  suitcase  up  the  hill  to  the  [REDACTED]  station.  At  four  o'clock  the  rain  suddenly  stopped.  Already  on  her  way  back  to  Nottingham  in  the  train,  Hilda  watched  the  watery  sunshine  on  the  fields  and  the  slate  roofs  drying.  She  reminded  herself  that  she  was  always  sad  on  train  journeys.  It's  a  sensation  of  fantasy,  she  decided,  having  searched  for  and  found  the  word.  The  sunshine  was  short-lived.  The  dark,  purple  clouds  soon  gathered  again,  and  in  [REDACTED]  crowds  surging  toward  stations,  queuing  for  buses,  were  soaked.  The  pavements  steamed  in  the  hissing  rain,  and  taxis  were  unobtainable,  al-  though  doormen  under  huge  umbrellas  stood  at  curbs,  whistling  shrilly  and  vainly  whenever  one  appeared  in  the  distance.  N  a  positive  deluge,  Pat  and  Mr.  Wharton  drove  up  to  No.  20.  He,  too,  had  an  umbrella,  and  held  it  care-  fully  over  her  as  they  went  down  the  garden  path  and  round  the  side  of  the  house.  &quot;Excusezx-moi,&quot;  she  said,  stooping  to  get  the  key  from  under  the  dustbin.  &quot;Could  bea  nice  view  on  a  nice  day,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Could  be,&quot;  she  agreed,  putting  the  key  in  the  door.  "