 b"ONE  day  a  madman  came  into  my   little  grandmother's  shop  at  Watford.  I  say  my  little  grand-  mother,  but  &quot;little&quot;  refers  only  to  her  height  and  to  the  dimensions  of  her  world  by  the  square  foot-the  small  shop  full  of  varieties,  her  parlor  behind  it,  and  behind  that  the  stone  kitchen,  and  the  two  bedrooms  over  her  head.  &quot;I  shall  murder  you,&quot;  said  the  mad-  man,  standing  with  legs  straddled  in  the  doorframe,  holding  up  his  dark  big  hands  as  one  about  to  pounce  and  stran-  gle.  His  eyes  stared  from  a  face  covered  with  tangled  eyebrows  and  beard.  The  street  was  empty.  My  grand-  mother  was  alone  in  the  house.  For  some  years,  from  frequent  hearing  of  the  story,  I  believed  I  was  standing  by  her  side  at  the  time,  but  my  grand-  mother  said  no,  this  was  long  before  I  was  born.  The  scene  is  as  clear  as  a  memory  to  me.  The  madman-truly  escaped  from  the  asylum  in  a  great  park  nearby-lifted  his  hairy  hands,  cupped  as  for  strangling.  Behind  him  was  the  street,  empty  save  for  sunshine.  He  said,  &quot;I'm  going  to  murder  you.&quot;  She  folded  her  hands  over  her  white  apron  that  lay  over  her  black  apron  and  looked  straight  at  him.  &quot;Then  you'll  get  hung,&quot;  she  said.  He  turned  and  shuffled  away.  She  should  have  said  &quot;hanged,&quot;  and  I  remember  at  one  telling  of  the  story  remarking  so  to  my  grandmother.  She  replied  that  &quot;hung&quot;  had  been  good  enough  for  the  madman.  I  could  not  impress  her  with  words,  but  I  was  so  im-  pressed  by  the  tale  that  very  often  aft-  erward  I  said  &quot;hung&quot;  instead  of  &quot;hanged.&quot;  I  seem  to  see  the  hap-  pening  so  plainly  in  my  memory  itis  difficult  to  believe  I  know  it  only  by  hearsay,  but  indeed  it  happened  before  I  was  born.  My  grand-  father  was  a  young  man  then-fifteen  years  younger  than  his  wife  and  dispossessed  by  his  family  for  having  mar-  ried  her.  He  was  gone  to  arrange  about  seed-  lings  when  the  madman  appeared.  My  grandmother  had  married  him  for  pure  love;  she  had  chased  him  and  hunted  him  down  and  married  him,he  was  so  beautiful  and  useless.  He  never  went  out  to  work  and  it  has  never  oc-  curred  to  me  until  now,  at  the  moment  of  writing,  to  consider  why,  and  imme-  diately  the  question  becomes  spiritually  disrespectful.  'The  essential  joblessness  of  my  grandfather  so  adhered  to  his  personality  that  even  the  odd  jobs  he  did  about  the  house  and  in  the  garden  seemed  to  come  under  the  heading  of  hobbies  and  recreations,  his  only  ambi-  tion  being  to  perform  each  of  them  well.  My  grandmother  never  cared  at  all  that  she  had  to  work  and  keep  him  all  his  life.  She  was  astonishingly  ugly-  one  was  compelled  to  look  at  her.  In  my  actual  memory,  late  in  their  mar-  riage,  he  would  bring  her  a  rose  from  the  garden  from  time  to  time,  and  put  cushions  under  her  head  and  feet  when  she  reclined  on  the  sofa  in  the  parlor  between  the  hours  of  two  and  three  in  the  afternoon.  He  could  not  scrub  the  counter  in  her  shop,  for  he  did  not  know  how  to  do  it,  but  he  knew  about  dogs  and  birds  and  gardens,  and  he  had  pho-  tography  for  a  pastime.  He  said  to  my  grandmother,  &quot;Stand  by  the  dahlias  and  I  will  take  your  likeness.&quot;  I  wished  she  had  known  how  to  take  his  likeness,  because  he  was  golden-  haired  even  in  my  day,  with  delicate  features  and  glittering  whiskers.  She  had  a  broad  pug  nose,  she  was  sallow-  skinned,  with  bright  black  eyes  staring  straight  at  the  world,  and  her  dull  black  hair  pulled  back  tight  into  a  knot.  She  looked  like  a  white  Negress.  She  did  not  try  to  beautify  herself  except  by  washing  her  face  in  rain  water.  She  had  come  from  Stepney.  Her  31  mother  was  a  Gentile  and  her  father  was  a  Jew.  She  said  her  father  was  a  quack  by  profession  and  she  was  proud  of  this,  because  she  felt  all  curing  was  done  by  the  kindly  manner  of  the  prac-  titioner  in  handing  out  bottles  of  medi-  cine  rather  than  by  the  contents.  I  always  forced  my  elders  to  enact  their  stories.  I  said,  &quot;Show  me  how  he  did  it.&quot;  Willingly,  she  leaned  forward  in  her  chair  and  handed  me  an  invisible  bottle  of  medicine.  She  said,  &quot;There  you  are,  my  dear,  and  you  won't  come  to  grief,  and  don't  forget  to  keep  regular.&quot;  She  said,  &quot;My  father's  medicine  was  only  beetroot  juice,  but  he  took  pains  with  his  manners,  and  he  took  pains  with  the  labels,  and  the  bottles  were  three-  pence  a  gross.  My  father  cured  many  an  ache  and  pain-it  was  his  gracious  manner.&quot;  This,  too,  entered  my  memory,  and  I  believed  I  had  seen  the  glamorous  quack  doctor  who  was  dead  before  I  was  born.  I  thought  of  him  when  I  saw  my  grandfather,  with  his  gracious  manner,  administering  a  tiny  dose  of  medicine  out  of  a  blue  bottle  to  one  of  his  small  colored  birds.  He  opened  its  beak  with  his  finger  and  tipped  in  a  drop.  All  the  little  garden  was  full  of  kennels  and  sheds  containing  birds  and  flowerpots.  The  photographs  he  took  there  were  not  quite  real  to  look  at.  One  day,  he  called  me  Canary  and  made  me  stand  by  the  brick  wall  for  my  likeness.  The  photograph  made  the  garden  look  tre-  mendous.  Perhaps  he  was  reproducing  in  his  photographs  the  grander  garden  of  his  youth,  from  which  he  was  ex-  pelled  avengingly  upon  his  marriage  to     " b"my  grandmother,  long  before  I  was  born.  After  his  death,  when  my  grand-  mother  came  to  live  with  us,  I  said  to  her  one  day,  &quot;Are  you  a  Gentile,  Grand-  mother,  or  are  you  a  Jewess?&quot;  I  was  wondering  how  she  would  be  buried,  according  to  what  religion,  when  her  time  came  to  die.  &quot;I  am  a  Gentile  Jewess,&quot;  she  said.  During  the  time  she  kept  the  shop  of  all  sorts  in  Watford,  she  had  not  liked  the  Jewish  part  of  her  origins  to  be  known,  because  it  was  bad  for  business.  She  would  have  been  amazed  at  any  suggestion  that  this  attitude  was  a  weak  one  or  a  wrong  one.  To  her,  whatever  course  was  sensible  and  good  for  business  was  good  in  the  sight  of  the  Almighty.  She  believed  heartily  in  the  Almighty.  I  neverheard  her  refer  to  God  by  any  other  title  except  when  she  said  &quot;God  bless  you.&quot;  She  was  a  member  of  the  Mothers'  Union  of  the  Church  of  Eng-  land.  She  attended  all  the  social  func-  tions  of  the  Methodists,  Baptists,  and  Quakers.  This  was  bright  and  agree-  able,  as  well  as  being  good  for  busi-  ness.  She  never  went  to  church  on  Sun-  days,  only  for  special  services  such  as  on  Remembrance  Day.  She  acted  against  her  conscience  only  once,  when  she  at-  tended  a  spiritualist  meeting;  this  was  from  sheer  curiosity,  not  business.  There  a  bench  fell  over  onto  her  foot  and  she  limped  for  a  month;  it  was  a  judgment  ofthe  Almighty.  I  inquired  closely  about  spiritualism.  &quot;''They  call  up  the  dead  from  their  repose,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  vexes  the  Al-  mighty  when  the  dead  are  stirred  be-  fore  they  are  ready.&quot;  Then  she  told  me  what  happened  to  spiritualists  after  a  number  of  years  had  passed  over  their  heads.  &quot;'Theyrun  up  the  garden  path,  look  back  over  their  shoulders,  give  a  shudder,  and  run  back  again.  I  daresay  they  see  spirits.&quot;  I  took  my  grandmother's  hand  and  led  herout  to  the  garden  to  make  her  show  me  what  spiritualists  did.  She  ran  up  the  path  splendidly,  with  her  skirts  held  up  in  herhands,  looked  round  with  sudden  bright  eyes,  shud-  dered  horribly,  then,  with  skirts  held  higher  so  that  her  white  petticoat  frills  flickered  round  her  black  stockings,  she  ran  gasping  back  toward  me.  My  grandfather  came  out  to  see  the  fun,  with  his  sandy  eyebrows  raised  high  among  the  freckles.  &quot;Stop  your  larks,  Adelaide,&quot;  he  said  to  my  grandmother.  So  my  grandmother  did  it  again,  with  a  curdling  ery,  &quot;Ah-ah-ah!&quot;  Rummaging  in  the  shop  one  day,  having  climbed  up  on  two  empty  fizz-  pop  crates,I  found  on  an  upper  shelf some  old  bundles  of  candles  wrapped  in  interesting-looking  literature.  I  smoothed  out  the  papers  and  read,  &quot;Votes  for  Women!  Why  Do  You  Op-  press  Women?&quot;  Another  lot  of  candles  was  wrapped  in  a  larger  bill,  on  which  was  printed  an  old-fashioned  but  mili-  tary-looking  young  woman  waving  the  Union  Jack  and  saying,  &quot;I'm  off  to  join  the  Suffragettes.&quot;  I  asked  my  grandmother  where  the  papers  came  from,  for  she  never  threw  anything  away  and  must  have  had  them  for  an-  other  purpose  before  wrapping  up  the  candles  before  I  was  born.  My  grandfather  answered  forher,  smiling  away,  &quot;Mrs.  Pankhurst's  lark.&quot;  And  so  I  learned  the  story  of  my  grandmother's  participation  in  the  Women's  Marches  up  Watford  High  Street,  dressed  in  her  best  clothes,  and  I  learned  also  my  grandfather's  opinions  about  these  happenings  and       how  he  joined  the  Watford  husbands  in  the  pub,  blood  brothers  in  sardonic  and  joyful  comment.  I  saw  before  my  very  eyes  my  grandmother  and  her  banner  marching  in  the  sunshiny  street  with  her  friends,  her  white  petticoat  twinkling  at  her  ankles  as  she  walked.  In  a  few  years'  time,  it  was  difficult  for  me  to  believe  I  had  not  stood  and  witnessed  the  march  of  the  Watford  Suffragettes  moving  up  the  High  Street,  with  my  grandmother  swiftly  in  the  van,  before  I  was  born.  I  recalled  how  her  shiny  black  straw  hat  gleamed  in  the  sun.  Some  Jews  came  to  Watford  and  opened  a  bicycle  shop  not  far  from  my  grandmother's.  She  would  have  noth-  ing  to  do  with  them,.  'They  were  Polish  immigrants.  She  called  them  Polacks.  When  I  asked  what  this  meant,  she  said,  &quot;Foreigners.&quot;  One  day,the  mama  foreigner  came  to  the  door  of  her  shop  as  I  was  passing,  and  held  out  a  bunch  of  grapes.  She  said,  &quot;Eat.&quot;  I  ran,  amazed,  to  my  grandmother,  who  said,  &quot;I  told  you  that  foreigners  are  funny.&quot;  Amongst  ourselves,  she  boasted  of  her  Jewish  blood  because  it  had  made  her  so  clever.  I  knew  she  was  so  clever  that  it  was  unnecessary  for  her  to  be  beautiful.  She  boasted  that  her  ancestors  on  her  father's  side  crossed  over  the  Red  Sea;  the  Almighty  stretched  forth  his  hands  and  parted  the  waves,  and  they  crossed  over  from  [REDACTED]  onto  dry  land.  Miriam  the  sister  of  Moses  banged  her  timbrel  and  led  all  the  women  across  the  Red  Sea,  singinga  song  to  the  Almighty.  I  " b"thought  of  the  Salvation  Army  girls  who  quite  recently  had  marched  up  Watford  High  Street  in  the  sunshine,  banging  their  tambourines.  My  grandmother  had  called  me  to  the  shop  door  to  watch,  and  when  they  and  theirnoise  were  dwindled  away  she  turned  from  the  door  and  clapped  her  hands  above  her  head,  half  in  the  spontaneous  spirit  of  the  thing,  half  in  mimicry.  She  clapped  her  hands.  &quot;Alleluia!&quot;  cried  my  grand-  mother.  &quot;Alleluia!&quot;  &quot;Stop  your  larks,  Adelaide,  my  dear.&quot;  Was  I  present  at  the  Red  Sea  cross-  ing?  No,  it  had  happened  before  I  was  born.  My  head  was  full  of  stories-of  Greeks  and  Trojans,  Picts  and  Romans,  Jacobites  and  Redcoats-but  these  be-  longed  definitely  outside  my  lifetime.  It  was  different  where  my  grandmother  was  concerned.  I  see  her  in  the  van-  guard,  leading  the  women  in  their  dance  of  triumph,  clanging  the  tambou-  rine  for  joy  and  crying  &quot;Alleluia&quot;  with  Mrs.  Pankhurst  and  Miriam  the  sister  of  Moses.  The  hands  of  the  Almighty  hold  back  the  walls  of  the  sea.  My  grandmother's  white  lace-edged  petti-  coat  flashes  beneath  her  black  skirt  an  inch  above  her  boots,  as  it  did  when  she  demonstrated  the  spiritualists  up  and  down  the  garden  path.  What  part  of  the  scene  I  saw  and  what  happened  before  I  was  born  can  be  distinguished  by  my  reason,  but  my  reason  cannot  obliterate  the  scene  or  diminish  it.  GREAT-AUNTS  Sally  and  Nancy,  my  grandfather's  sisters,  had  been  frigidly  reconciled  to  him  at  some  date  before  I  was  born.  I  was  sent  to  call  on  them  every  summer.  'They  lived  quietly  now,  spinsters  of  small  means.  (In  fact,  I  think  they  were  widows,  but  they  were  spinsters  to  me.)  'They  occupied  themselves  with  altar  flowers  and  the  vicar.  I  was  a  Gentile  Jewess  like  my  grandmother,  for  my  father  was  a  Jew,  and  these  great-aunts  could  not  make  it  out  that  I  did  not  look  like  a  Jew.  They  remarked  on  this  in  my  presence,  as  if  I  couldnot  understand  that  they  were  discussing  my  looks.  I  said  that  I  did  look  like  a  Jew  and  desperately  pointed  to  my  small  feet.  &quot;All  Jews  have  very  little  feet,&quot;  I  claimed.  They  took  this  for  fact,  being  inexperienced  in  Jews,  and  admitted  to  each  other  that  I  possessed  this  Jewish  characteristic.  Nancy's  face  was  long  and  thin  and  Sally's  was  round,.  There  seemed  to  be  a  lot  of  pincushions  on  tiny  tables.  They  gave  me  aniseed  cake  and  tea  every  summer,  while  the  clock  ticked  loudly  in  time  to  their  silence.  I  looked  at  the  yellow-green  plush  upholstery,  which  caught  streaks  of  the  sunny  afternoon  outside-I  looked  until  I  had  absorbed  its  color  and  texture  in  a  total  trance  during  the  great-aunts'  silences.  Once,  when  I  got  back  to  my  grandmother's  and  looked  in  the  glass,  it  seemed  my  eyes  hadchangedfrom  blue  to  yellow-  green  plush.  On  one  of  these  afternoons,  they  mentioned  my  father's  being  an  engi-  neer.  I  said  all  Jews  were  engineers.  They  were  fascinated  by  this  fact,  " b"which  at  the  time  I  thought  was  possi-  bly  true,  with  the  exception  of  an  occa-  sional  quack.  Then  Sally  looked  up  and  said,  &quot;But  the  Lingens  are  not  engi-  neers.&quot;  The  Lingens  were  not  Jews,  either;  they  were  Gentiles  of  German  origin,  but  it  came  to  the  same  thing  in  those  parts.  The  Lingens  were  not  classified  as  foreigners  by  my  grandmother,  be-  cause  they  did  not  speak  in  broken  English,  being  all  of  a  [REDACTED]-born  generation.  The  Lingen  girls  were  the  main  friends  of  my  mother's  youth.  There  was  Lottie,  who  sang  well,  and  Flora,  who  played  the  piano,  and  Susanna,  who  was  strange.  I  remember  a  long  eve-  ning  in  their  house  when  Lottie  and  my  mother  sang  a  duet  to  Flora's  piano  playing,  while  Susanna  loitered  darkly  at  the  door  ofthe  drawing  room  with  a  smile  I  had  never  seen  on  any  face  be-  fore.  I  could  not  keep  my  eyes  off  Su-  sanna,  and  got  into  trouble  for  staring.  When  my  mother  and  Lottie  were  seventeen,  they  hired  a  cab  one  day  and  went  to  an  inn  some  miles  away  in  the  country,  where  they  drank  gin.  They  supplied  the  driver  with  gin  as  well,  and,  forgetting  that  the  jaunt  was  supposed  to  be  a  secret  one,  returned  two  hours  later  standing  up  in  the  cab,  chanting,  &quot;Horrid  little  Watford.  Dirty  little  Watford.  We'll  soon  say  goodbye  to  nasty  little  Watford.&quot;  They  did  not  consider  themselves  to  be  village  girls  and  were  eager  to  be  sent  away  to  rela-  tives  elsewhere.  This  was  soon  accom-  plished;  Lottie  went  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  space,  and  my  mother  to  Edinburgh.  My  mother  told  me  the  story  of  the  wild  return  of  carriage  and  horses  up  the  High  Street,  and  my  grandmother  confirmed  it,  adding  that  the  occurrence  was  bad  for  business.  I  can  hear  the  clopping  of  hoofs,  and  see  the  girls  standing  wobbly  in  the  cab,  dressed  in  their  long  spotted  muslins,  although  I  never  actually  saw  anything  but  milk  carts,  motorcars,  and  buses,  and  girls  with  short  skirts  in  the  High  Street-  apart  from  such  links  with  antiquity  as  fat  old  Benskin  of  Benskin's  Breweries,  taking  his  morning  stroll  along  the  bright  pavement,  bowing,  as  he  passed,  to  my  grandmother.  &quot;I  am  a  Gentile  Jewess,&quot;  she  had  told  me.  She  was  buried  as  a  Jewess,  since  she   died  in  my  father's  house,  and  notices  were  put  in  the  Jewish  press.  Simul,  taneously,  my  great-aunts  announced  in  the  Watford  papers  that  she  fell  asleep  in  Jesus.  Y  mother  never  fails  to  bow  three  times  to  the  new  moon  wherever  she  may  be  at  the  time  of  first  catching  sight  of  it.  I  have  seen  her  standing  on  a  busy  pavement,  reversing  the  coins  in  her  purse-&quot;turning  over  her  money,&quot;  as  they  say-with  numerous  cold,  ra-  tional  Presbyterian  eyes  upon  her,  bow-  ing  regardless,  and  chanting,  &quot;New  moon,  new  moon,  be  good  to  me,  And  bring  me  presents,  one,  two,  three.&quot;  In  my  memory,  this  image  is  fused  with  her  lighting  of  the  Sabbath  candles  on  a  Friday  night,  chanting  a  Hebrew  prayer,  which  I  have  since  been  told  came  out  in  a  very  strange  sort  of  He-  brew.,  Still,  it  was  her  tribute  and  solemn  observance.  She  said  that  the  Israelites  of  the  Bible  and  herself  were  one  and  the  same  because  of  the  Jewish  partof  her  blood,  and  I  did  not  doubt  this  thrilling  fact.  I  thought  of  her  as  the  second  Gen-  tile  Jewess  after  my  grandmother,  and  myself  as  the  third.  My  mother  carries  everywhere  in  her  handbag  a  small  locket  containing  a  pic-  ture  of  Christ  crowned  with  thorns.  She  keeps  on  one  table  a  rather  fine  Buddha  on  a  lotus  leaf,  and  on  another  a  horrible  replica  of  the  Venus  de  Milo.  One  way  and  another,  all  the  gods  are  served  in  my  mother's  house,  although  she  holds  only  one  belief  and  that  is  in  the  Al-  mighty.  My  father,  when  questioned  asto  what  he  believes,  will  say,  &quot;I  be-  lieve  in  the  Blessed  Almighty  who  made  heaven  and  earth,&quot;  and  will  say  no  more,  returning  to  his  racing  papers,  which  contain  problems  proper  to  inno-  cent  men.  To  my  parents,  it  was  no  great  shock  when  I  turned  Catholic,  since  with  Roman  Catholics,  too,  it  all  boils  down  to  the  Almighty  in  the  end. "