 b"COPYWERITERS  ought  to  think  care-  fully  of  the  possible  consequences  of  their  words,  and  not  get  inno-  cent  third  parties  immersed  in  a  lot  of  unwanted  cormorants.  For  instance:  From  July  through  September,  the  Minack  Theatre  presentsa  festival  of  Greek,  Shakespearean,  mediaeval,  and  modern  plays.  The  cry  of  cormorants  and  the  drum  roll  of  surf  add  a  wild  and  lonely  music.  That  is  from  a  recent  British  Travel  Association  advertisement  in  this  very  magazine,  and  may  well  bring  shovel-  loads  of  dollar  spenders  down  to  the  Cornish  coast  this  summer.  A  good  thing  for  us  in  [REDACTED]  (I  am  British),  and  a  good  thing  for  the  visitors.  The  Minack  Theatre  is  splendidly  set  in  the  open  air,  and  its  back  cloth  of  tumbled  cliff  and  wide  sea  and  sky  must  lend  (though  I  have  never  had  the  fortune  to  be  present)  anadded  grandeur  to  an  Oedipus  or  an  Antigone,  a  Lear  or  a  Lady  Macbeth.  There  can  be  no  objec-  tion  in  principle  to  an  appeal  to  the  peo-  ple  of  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  to  come  over  and  savor  these  delights.  It  is  the  wild  and  lonely  music  I  jibat.  I  have  known  the  cliffs  of  Cornwall  practically  since  they  were  so  high.  Also  their  cormorants.  These  birds  (genus  Phalacrocorax)  fly  with  rapid  wing-  beats  and  the  keen  sense  of  purpose  that  an  outstretched  neck  conveys,  usually  quite  low  over  the  open  water.  They  give  pleasure  by  staying  longer  below  the  surface  when  they  dive  for  fish  than  the  watcher  can  credit,  and  by  reappear-  ing  where  he  is  not  looking.  They  stand  on  rocks  and  hold  their  wings  out  to  dry,  in  a  manner  that  nobody  has  yet  failed  to  describe  as  heraldic.  But  their  cry-now,  that  is  a  music  that  I  have  never  yet  enjoyed,  with  or  without  bene-  fit  of  surf.  One  ought  to  have  heard  it,  I  do  agree.  Stretched  out  among  the  sea  pinks  on  Pentire  or  by  Tintagel's  legend-haunted  steep,  one  should  surely  catch,  faint  and  far  below,  a  long,  lorn  trumpet  call,  rising  and  falling,  dying  yet  echoing  still-the  unmistakable,  un-  forgettable  cry  of  the  spume-drenched  cormorant.  Born  of  the  wind  and  spray,  at  one  with  the  magic  and  mystery  of  the  lonely  wastes  of  water,  that  poign-  ant,  undulating  call  seems  to  come  to  us  from  some  remote  past,  to  carry  with  it  a  desolate  breath  of  the  days,  perhaps  fifty  million  years  ago,  when  Phalecro-  corax  first  lived  and  loved  in  an  Oligo-  cene  dawn.  Nature,  however,  does  not  always  rise  to  its  opportunities,  nor  does  fine" b'writing  necessarily  make  fine  birds.  The  brutal  truth  is  that  the  cormorant  has  no  cry.  It  croaks.  And  even  that  it  only  does,  as  a  rule,  on  its  nesting  sites.  Let  us  listen  for  a  moment  to  the  authorities,  to  whose  utterances  (positively  melodi-  ous  by  comparison  )  I  have  had  recourse  in  vexation  at  my  inability  to  recall  the  living  voice  of  the  theatre-haunting  cor-  morant:  It  is  usually  silent  away  from  nesting-  sites  and  roosts,  where  the  chief  notes  are  various  deep  guttural  noises,  &quot;karrk,&quot;  &quot;kworrk,&quot;  ete.-P.  A.  D.  Hollom,  &quot;The  Popular  Handbook  of  British  Birds.&quot;  Rarely  heard  away  from  nest,  where  it  has  a  good  many  guttural  notes.-R.  S.  R.  Fitter,  &quot;The  Pocket  Guide  to  British  Birds.&quot;  Usual  note  a  low,  guttural  &quot;r-rah.&quot;  -Roger  Tory  Peterson  et  al.,  &quot;A  Field  Guide  to  the  Birds  of  [REDACTED]  and  Europe.&quot;  It  crossed  my  mind  that  the  B.T.A.  writer,  deviating  into  an  error  that  has  trapped  others  before  now,  might  have  mistaken  shags  for  cormorants,  perhaps  confused  by  the  boom  of  the  surf  and  some  windy  medieval  play.  But  the  same  authorities  are  at  least  as  discour-  aging  about  shags:  Notes  at  breeding-places  are  harsh  and  croaking,  recorded  as  &quot;kroak-kraik-  kroak.&quot;-Hollom.  A  harsh  croak.  A  loud,  rasping  croak.  At  nest,  a  deep  grunt  and  loud  hissing.-Peterson,  It  becomes  uncomfortably  clear  that  Americans  are  being  lured  to  Minack  under  something  like  false  pretenses.  Even  if,  which  I  take  leave  to  doubt,  there  is  a  cormorant  and/or  shag  nest-  ing  colony  within  croaking  distance  of  the  theatre,  canone  honestly  say  that  wild  and  lonely  music  will  be  provided  as  advertised?  The  surf  may  roll  its  drums  as  never  before,  but  what  are  our  transatlantic  guests  to  make  of  all  this  guttural  grunting  and  hissing?  They  might  reasonably  protest  that  they  could  get  as  good  background  noises  from  any  [REDACTED]  audience-or  New' b' York.  They  might  go  further  and  say  that  they  would  sooner  take  their  trage-  dies  without  interruption.  Aeschylus  is  tricky  stuff:  OrEstEs:  Oh,  heritage  of  Grief!  In-  carnate  Woe!  Oh,  bloody  hand  of  Doom  that  jars  the  strings!  (Kworrk)  Now  is  the  voice  of  melody  brought  low.  (Karrk,  karrk,  kworrk)  ErrctTra:  Oh,  how  they  grate,  these  harsh  chords  Sorrow  wrings!  (R-rch)  Even  so  carefully  chosen  a  passage  as  that  seems  doubtfully  enhanced  to  me.  Nor  can  I  find  in  the  whole  of  Shake-  speare  more  than  one  or  two  scenes,  in  &quot;Lear&quot;  and  &quot;Macbeth,&quot;  that  could  benefit  from  deep  guttural  noises  off,  flourish  of  &quot;kworrks,&quot;  etc.  There  is  a  kind  of  wild  and  lonely  music  that  just  does  not  go  with  high  tragedy.  Of  course,  if  they  were  putting  on  Aristophanes,  now,  there  might  be  something  in  it:  CHorus  oF  Frocs:  Brekekekex.  Koax.  Koax.  Drrro  Suacs  (of):  Kroak-kraik-  kroak.  B.T.A.  CommEnTaror\xc2\xae  (at  back):  Phulacrocorax!  That  should  raise  a  laugh  among  |  knowledgeable  Chicagoans.  Or,  rather,  it  might-but  for  the  sad  circumstance  that  the  cormorants  and  the  shags  will  be  through  with  their  nesting  by  the  time  the  Minack  Theatre  opens.  From  July  through  September,  Ifear,  not  a  croak  will  be  heard,  not  a  guttural  note.  The  surf  will  have  to  go  it  alone. '