 b"THE  sound  of  the  waterfall  grew  more  and  more  muffied,  until  it  finally  dissolved  altogether,  and  we  moved  on  through  the  wildwood  of  a  hitherto  unexplored  region.  We  walked,  and  had  been  walking,  for  a  long  time  already-in  front,  Gregson  and  I;  our  eight  native  porters  behind,  one  after  the  other;  last  of  all,  whining  and  protesting  at  every  step,  came  Cook.  I  knew  that  Gregson  had  recruited  him  on  the  advice  of  a  local  hunter.  Cook  had  insisted  that  he  was  ready  to  do  any-  thing  to  get  out  of  Zonraki,  where  they  pass  half  the  year  brewing  their  &quot;vor-  gho&quot;  and  the  other  half  drinking  it.  It  remained  unclear,  however-or  else  I  was  already  beginning  to  forget  many  things,  as  we  walked  on  and  on-exact-  ly  who  this  Cook  was.  (A  runaway  sail-  or,  perhaps?  )  Gregson  strode  on  beside  me,  sinewy,  lanky,  with  bare,  bony  knees.  He  held  a  long-handled  green  butterfly  net  like  a  banner.  The  porters,  big,  glossy-  brown  Badonians  with  thick  manes  of  hair  and  cobalt  arabesques  between  their  eyes,  whom  we  had  also  engaged  in  Zon-  raki,  walked  with  a  springy,  even  step.  Be-  hind  them  straggled  Cook,  bloated,  red-  haired,  with  a  droop-  ing  underlip,  hands  in  pockets  and  carrying  nothing.  I  recalled  vaguely  that  at  the  out-  set  of  the  expedition  he  had  chattered  a  lot  and  made  obscure  jokes,  in  that  manner  of  his  that  was  a  mixture  of  insolence  and  servility,  reminiscent  of  a  Shake-  spearean  clown;  but  soon  his  spirits  fell  and  he  grew  glum  and  began  to  neglect  his  du-  ties,  which  included  in-  terpreting,  since  Greg-  son's  understanding  of  the  Badonian  dialect  was  still  poor.  HERE  was  some-  thing  languorous  and  velvety  about  the  heat.  A  stifling  fra-  grance  came  from  the  inflorescences  of  Vel-  lieria  mirifica,  mother-  of-pearl  in  color  and  re-  sembling  clusters  of  soap  bubbles,  that  arched  across  the  narrow,  dry  stream  bed  along  which  we  proceeded  with  rustling  step.  The  branches  of  the  porphyroferous  trees  intertwined  with  those  of  the  black-leafed  limia  to  form  a  tunnel,  penetrated  here  and  there  by  a  ray  of  hazy  light.  Above,  in  the  thick  mass  of  vegetation,  among  brilliant  pen-  dulous  racemes  and  strange  dark  tangles  of  some  kind,  hoary  monkeys  snapped  and  chattered,  while  a  cometlike  bird  flashed  like  Bengal  light,  cryingout  in  its  small,  shrill  voice.  I  kept  telling  my-  self  that  my  head  was  heavy  from  the  long  march,  the  heat,  the  medley  of  colors,  and  the  forest  din,  but  secret-  ly  I  knew  that  I  was  ill,  and  surmised  that  it  was  the  local  fever,  I  had  re-  solved,  however,  to  conceal  my  condi-  tion  from  Gregson,  and  had  assumed  a  cheerful,  even  merry  air,  when  disaster  struck.  &quot;It's  my  fault,&quot;  said  Gregson.  &quot;I  should  never  have  got  involved  with  him.&quot;  We  were  now  alone.  &gt;  Cook  and  all  eight  of  the  natives,  with  tent,  folding  boat,  supplies,  and  collections,  had  de-  serted  us  and  vanished  noiselessly  while      we  busiedourselves  in  the  thick  bush,  collecting  fascinating  insects.  I  think  we  tried  to  catch  up  with  the  fugitives;  I  do  not  recallclearly,  but,  in  any  case,  we  failed.  We  had  to  decide  whether  to  return  to  Zonraki  or  continue  our  pro-  jected  itinerary,  across  as  yet  unknown  country,  toward  the  Gurano  Hills.  The  unknown  won  out.  We  moved  on.  I  was  already  shivering  all  over  and  deaf-  ened  by  quinine,  but  still  went  on  col-  lecting  nameless  plants,  while  Gregson,  though  fully  realizing  the  danger  of  our  situation,  continued  catching  butterflies  and  Diptera  as  avidly  as  ever.  We  had  scarcely  walked  half  a  mile  when  suddenly  Cook  overtook  us.  His  shirt  was  torn-apparently  by  himself,  deliberately-and  he  was  panting  and  gasping.  Without  a  word  Gregson  drew  his  revolver  and  prepared  to  shoot  the  scoundrel,  but  Cook  threw  himself  at  Gregson's  feet  and,  shielding  his  head  with  both  arms,  began  to  swear  that  the  natives  had  led  him  away  by  force  and  had  wanted  to  eat  him  (which  was  a  lie,  for  the  Badonians  are  not  cannibals).  I  suspect  that  he  had  easily  incited  them,  stupid  and  timorous  as  they  were,  to  abandon  the  dubious  journey,  but  had  not  taken  into  account  that  he  could  not  keep  up  with  their  powerful  stride,  and,  having  fall-  en  hopelessly  behind,  had  returned  to  us.  Be-  cause  of  him  invaluable  collections  were  lost.  He  had  to  die.  But  Greg-  son  put  away  the  re-  volver  and  we  moved  on,  with  Cook  wheez-  ing  and  stumbling  be-  hind.  The  woods  were  gradually  thinning.  I  was  tormented  by  strange  hallucinations.  I  gazed  at  the  weird  tree  trunks,  around  some  of  which  were  coiled  thick,  flesh-col-  ored  snakes;  suddenly  I  thought  I  saw,  between  the  trunks,  as  though  through  my  fingers,  the  mirror  of  a  half-open  wardrobe  with  hazy  reflections,  but  then  I  took  hold  of  myself,  looked  more  carefully,  and  found  that  it  was  only  the  deceptive  glim-  mer  of  an  acreana  bush  (acurly  plant  with  large  berries  resembling  plump  prunes).  After  a  " b"while  the  trees  parted  alto-  gether  and  the  sky  rose  before  us  like  a  solid  wall  of  blue.  We  were  at  the  top  of  a  steep  in-  cline.  Below  shimmered  and  steamed  an  enormous  marsh,  and  far  beyond  was  visible  the  trembling  silhouette  of  a  mauve-colored  range  of  hills.  &quot;I  swear  to  God  we  must  turn  back,&quot;  said  Cook  in  a  sobbing  voice.  &quot;I  swear  to  God  we'llperish  in  these  swamps-I've  got  seven  daughters  and  a  dog  at  home.  Let's  turn  back-we  know  the  way.  .  ..&quot;  He  wrung  his  hands,  and  the  sweat  rolled  from  his  fat,  red-browed  face.  &quot;Home,  home,&quot;  he  kept  re-  peating.  &quot;You've  caught  enough  bugs.Let's  go  home!&quot;  Gregson  and  I  began  to  descend  the  stony  slope.  At  first  Cook  remained  stand-  ing  above,  a  small  white  figure  against  the  monstrously  green  background  of  forest;  but  suddenly  he  threw  up  his  hands,  uttered  a  cry,  and  started  to  slither  down  after  us.  The  slope  narrowed,  form-  ing  a  rocky  crest  that  reached  out  like  a  long  promontory  into  the  marshes;  they  spar-  kled  through  the  steamy  haze.  The  noonday  sky,  now  freed  of  its  leafy  veils,  hung  oppressively  over  us  with  its  blinding  darkness-yes,  its  blinding  darkness,  for  there  is  no  other  way  to  describe  it.  I  tried  not  to  look  up;  but  in  this  sky,  at  the  very  verge  of  my  field  of  vision,  there  floated,  al-  ways  keeping  up  with  me,  whitish  phan-  toms  of  plaster,  stucco  curlicues  and  rosettes,  like  those  used  to  adorn  Euro-  pean  ceilings;  however,  I  had  only  to  look  directly  at  them  and  they  would  vanish,  instantly  dropping  away  some-  where,  and  again  the  tropical  sky  would  thunder  in  its  even,  dense  blueness.  We  were  still  walking  along  the  rocky  promontory,  but  it  kept  tapering  and  be-  traying  us.  Around  it  grew  golden  marsh  reeds,  like  a  million  bared  swords  gleaming  in  the  sun.  Here  and  there  flashed  elongated  pools,  and  over  them  hung  dark  swarms  of  midges.  A  large  swamp  flower,  related  to  the  orchid,  stretched  toward  me  its  drooping,  downy  lip,  which  seemed  smeared  as  if  with  egg  yolk.  Gregson  swung  his  net  and  sank  to  his  hips  in  the  brocaded  ooze  as  a  gigantic  butterfly,  with  one  flap  of  its  satin  wings,  sailed  away  from  him  over  the  reeds,  toward  the  shimmer  of  pale   emanations,  where  the  indistinct  folds  of  a  window  curtain  seemed  to  hang.  &quot;I  must  not,&quot;  I  said  to  myself,  &quot;I  must  not  .  ..&quot;  I  shifted  my  gaze  and  walked  on  beside  Gregson,  now  over  rock,  now  across  hissing  and  lip-smacking  soil.  I  felt  chills,  in  spite  of  the  greenhouse  heat.  I  foresaw  that  in  a  moment  I  would  collapse  altogether,  that  the  de-  signs  and  convexities  of  delirium,  show-  ing  through  the  sky  and  through  the  golden  reeds,  would  gain  complete  con-  trol  of  my  consciousness.  At  times  Greg-  son  and  Cook  seemed  to  grow  transpar-  ent,  and  I  thought  I  saw,  through  them,  wallpaper  with  an  endlessly  repeated  de-  sign  of  reeds.  I  tookhold  of  myself,  strained  to  keep  my  eyes  open,  and  moved  on.  Cook  by  now  was  crawling  on  all  fours,  yelling,  and  snatching  at  Gregson's  legs,  but  the  latter  would  shake  him  off  and  keep  walking.  I  looked  at  Gregson,  at  his  stubborn  pro-  file,  and  felt,  to  my  horror,  that  I  was  forgetting  who  Gregson  was,  and  why  I  was  with  him.  Meanwhile  we  kept  sinking  into  the  ooze  more  and  more  frequently,  deeper  and  deeper;  the  insatiable  mire  would  suck  at  us,  and,  wriggling,  we  would  slip free.  Cook  kept  falling  down  and  crawl-  ing,  covered  with  insect  bites,  all  swollen  and  soaked,  and,  dear  God,  how  he  would  squeal  when  disgusting  bevies  of  minute,  bright-green  hydrotic  snakes,  attracted  by  our  sweat,  would  take  off  in  pursuit  of  us,  tensing  and  uncoiling  to  sail  two  yards  and  then  another  two.  I,  however,  was  much  more  frightened  by  something  else:  Now  and  then,  on  my  left  (always,  for  some  reason,  on  my  left),  listing  among  the  repetitious  reeds,  what  seemed  a  large  armchair  but  was  actually  a  strange,  cumbersome  gray  amphibian,  whose  name  Gregson  re-  fused  to  tell  me,  would  rise  out  of  the  swamp.  &quot;A  break,&quot;  said  Gregson  abruptly.  &quot;Let's  take  a  break.&quot;  By  a  stroke  of  luck  we  managed  to  scramble  onto  an  islet  of  rock,  surround-  ed  by  the  swamp  vegetation.  Gregson  took  off  his  knapsack  and  issued  us  some  native  patties,  smelling  of  ipecacuanha,  and  a  dozen  acreana  fruit.  How  thirsty  I  was,  and  how  little  help  was  the  scanty,  astringent  juice  of  the  acreana  ...  &quot;Look,  how  odd,&quot;  Gregson  said  to  me,  not  in  English  but  in  some  other  language,  so  that  Cook  would  not  un-  " b"derstand.  &quot;We  must  get  through  to  the  hills,  but  look,  how  odd-could  the  hills  have  been  a  mirage?  -they  are  no  long-  er  visible.&quot;  Iraised  myself  up  from  my  pillow  and  leaned  my  elbow  on  the  resilient  surface  of  the  rock.  ..  .  Yes,  it  was  true  that  the  hills  were  no  longer  visible;  there  was  only  the  quivering  vapor  hanging  over  the  marsh.  Once  again  everything  around  me  assumed  an  ambiguous  transparency.  I  leaned  back  and  said  softly  to  Gregson,  &quot;You  prob-  ably  can't  see,  but  something  keeps  try-  ing  to  come  through.&quot;  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?&quot;  asked  Gregson.  I  realized  that  what  I  was  saying  was  nonsense  and  stopped.  My  head  was  spinning  and  there  was  a  humming  in  my  ears;  Gregson,  down  on  one  knee,  was  rummaging  through  his  knapsack,  but  there  was  no  medicine  there,  and  my  supply  was  exhausted.  Cook  sat  in  silence,  morosely  picking  at  a  rock.  Through  a  tear  in  his  shirtsleeve  there  showed  a  strange  tattoo  on  his  arm:  a  crystal  drinking  glass  with  a  teaspoon,  very  well  executed.  &quot;Valier  is  sick-haven't  you  got  some  tablets?&quot;  Gregson  said  to  him.  I  did  not  hear  the  exact  words,  but  I  could  guess  the  general  sense  of  their  talk,  which  would  grow  absurd  and  somehow  spherical  when  I  tried  to  listen  more  closely.  Cook  turned  slowly  and  the  glassy  tattoo  slid  off  his  skin  to  one  side,  re-  maining  suspended  in  midair;  then  it  floated  off,  floated  off,  and  I  pursued  it  with  my  frightened  gaze,  but  as  I  turned  away  it  lost  itself  in  the  vapor  of  the  swamp,  with  a  last  faint  glimmer.  &quot;Serves  you  right,&quot;  muttered  Cook.  &quot;It's  just  too  bad.  The  same  will  hap-  pen  to  you  and  me.  Just  too  bad  .  .  .&quot;  In  the  course  of  the  last  few  min-  utes-that  is,  ever  since  we  had  stopped  to  rest  on  the  rock  islet-he  seemed  to  have  grown  larger,  had  swelled,  and  there  was  now  something  mocking  and  dangerous  about  him.  Gregson  took  off  his  sun  helmet  and,  pulling  out  a  dirty  handkerchief,  wiped  his  forehead,  which  was  orange  over  the  brows,  and  white  above  that.  'Then  he  put  on  his  helmet  again,  leaned  over  to  me,  and  said,  &quot;Pull  yourself  together,  please&quot;  (or  words  to  that  effect).  &quot;We  shall  try  to  move  on.  The  vapor  is  hiding  the  hills,  but  they  are  there.  I  am  certain  we  have  cov-  ered  about  half  the  swamp.&quot;  (This  is  all  very  approximate.)  &quot;Murderer,&quot;  said  Cook  under  his  breath.  The  tattoo  was  now  again  on  his  forearm;  not  the  entire  glass,  though,  but  one  side  of  it-there  was  not  quite  \n\nenough  room  for  the  remainder,  which  quivered  in  space,  casting  reflections.  &quot;Murderer,&quot;  Cook  repeated  with  satis-  faction,  raising  his  inflamed  eyes.  &quot;I  told  you  we  would  get  stuck  here.  Black  dogs  eat  too  much  carrion.  Mi,  re,fa,  sol.&quot;  &quot;He's  a  clown,&quot;  Isoftly  informed  Gregson,  &quot;a  Shakespearean  clown.&quot;  &quot;Clow,  clow,  clow,&quot;  Gregson  an-  swered,  &quot;clow,  clow-clo,  clo,  clo  .  ..  Do  you  hear,&quot;  he  went  on,  shouting  in  my  ear.  &quot;You  must  get  up.  We  have  to  move  on.&quot;  The  rock  was  as  white  and  as  soft  as  a  bed.  I  raised  myself  a  little,  but  im-  mediately  fell  back  on  the  pillow.  &quot;We  shall  have  to  carry  him,&quot;  said  Gregson's  faraway  voice.  &quot;Give  me  a  hand.&quot;  &quot;Fiddlesticks,&quot;  replied  Cook  (or  so  it  sounded  to  me).  &quot;I  suggest  we  enjoy  some  fresh  meat  before  he  dries  up.  Fa,  sol,  mi,  re.&quot;  &quot;He's  sick,  he's  sick,  too,&quot;  I  cried  to  Gregson.  &quot;You're  here  with  two  lunatics.  Go  ahead  alone.  You'll  make  it  .  ..  (30\xe2\x80\x947)  &quot;Fat  chance  we'll  let  him  go,&quot;  Cook.  Meanwhile  delirious  visions,  taking  advantage  of  the  general  confusion,  were  quietly  and  firmly  establishing  them-  selves.  The  lines  of  a  dim  ceiling  stretched  and  crossed  in  the  sky.  A  large  armchair  rose,  as  if  supported  from  be-  low,  out  of  the  swamp.  Glossy  birds  flew  through  the  haze  of  the  marsh  and,  as  they  settled,  one  turned  into  the  wooden  knob  ofa  bedpost,  another  into  a  decant  Gathering  all  my  will  power,  I  focussed  my  gaze  and  drove  off  this  dangerous  trash.  Above  the  reeds  flew  real  birds  with  long  flame-colored  tails.  The  air  buzzed  with  insects.  Gregson  was  waving  away  a  varicolored  fly,  and  at  the  same  time  trying  to  determine  its  species.  Finally  he  could  contain  himself  no  longer  and  caught  it  in  his  net.  His  motions  underwent  curious  changes,  as  if  someone  were  reshuffling  them.  I  saw  him  in  different  poses  simultaneous-  ly;  he  was  divesting  himself  of  himself,  as  if  he  were  made  of  many  glass  Greg-  sons  whose  outlines  did  not  coincide.  Then  he  condensed  again,  and  stood  up  firmly.  He  was  shaking  Cook  by  the  shoulder.  &quot;You  are  going  to  help  me  carry  him,&quot;  Gregson  was  saying  distinctly.  &quot;If  you  were  not  a  traitor,  we  would  not  be  in  this  mess.&quot;  Cook  remained  silent,  flushed  purple.  &quot;See  here,  Cook,  you'll  regret  this,&quot;  said  Gregson.  &quot;I'm  telling  you  for  the  last  time-&quot;  At  this  point  something  occurred  that  said  but  slowly  " b"had  been  ripening  for  a  long  time.  Cook  drove  his  head  like  a  bull  into  Gregson's  stomach.  They  both  fell;  Gregson  had  time  to  get  his  revolver  out,  but  Cook  managed  to  knock  it  out  of  his  hand.  Then  they  clutched  each  other  and  started  rolling  in  their  em-  brace,  panting  deafeningly.  I  looked  at  them,  helpless.  Cook's  broad  back  would  grow  tense  and  the  verte-  brae  would  show  through  his  shirt;  but  suddenly,  in-  stead  of  his  back,  a  leg,  also  his,  would  appear,  covered  with  red  hairs  and  with  a  blue  vein  running  up  the  shin,  and  Gregson  was  roll-  ing  on  top  of  him.  Greg-  son's  helmet  flew  off  and  wobbled  away,  like  halfof  an  enormous  cardboard  egg.  From  somewhere  in  the  labyrinth  of  their  bodies  Cook's  fingers  wriggled  out,  clenching  a  rusty  but  sharp  knife;  the  knife  entered  Gregson's  back  as  if  it  were  clay,  but  Gregson  only  gave  a  grunt,  and  they  both  rolled  over  several  times.  When  I  next  saw  my  friend's  back,  the  handle  and  top  halfof  the  blade  protruded,  while  his  hands  had  locked  around  Cook's  thick  neck,  which  crunched  as  he  squeezed,  and  Cook's  legs  were  twitch-  ing.  They  made  one  last  full  revolu-  tion,  and  now  only  a  quarter  of  the  blade  was  visible-no,  a  fifth  ..  .  no,  now  not  even  that  much  showed:  it  had  entered  completely.  Gregson  grew  still  after  having  piled  on  top  of  Cook,  who  had  also  become  motionless.  I  watched,  and  it  seemed  to  me  (fogged  as  my  senses  were  by  fever)  that  this  was  all  a  harmless  game,  that  in  a  moment  they  would  get  up  and,  when  they  had  caught  their  breath,  would  peacefully  carry  me  off  across  the  swamp  toward  the  cool  blue  hills,  to  some  shady  place  with  babbling  water.  But  suddenly,  at  this  last  stage  of  my  mortal  illness-for  I  knew  that  in  a  few  minutes  I  would  die-in  these  final  min-  utes  everything  grew  completely  lucid;  I  realized  that  all  that  was  taking  place  around  me  was  not  the  trick  of  an  inflamed  imagination,  not  the  veil  of  delirium,  through  which  unwelcome  glimpses  of  my  supposedly  real  existence  in  a  distant  European  metropolis  (the  wallpaper,  the  armchair,  the  glass  of  lemonade)  were  trying  to  show.  I  real-  ized  that  the  obtrusive  room  was  ficti-  tious,  since  everything  beyond  death  is,  at  best,  fictitious:  an  imitation  of  life  hastily  knocked  together,  the  furnished  rooms  of  nonexistence.  I  realized  that  reality  was  here,  here  beneath  this  won-  derful,  frightening  tropical  sky,  among  those  gleaming  swordlike  reeds,  in  this  vapor  hanging  over  them,  and  in  the  thick-lipped  flowers  clinging  to  the  flat  islet,  where,  beside  me,  lay  two  clinched  corpses.  And,  having  realized  this,  I  found  within  me  the  strength  to  crawl  over  to  them  and  pull  the  knife  from  the  back  of  Gregson,  my  leader,  my  dear  friend.  He  was  dead,  quite  dead,  and  all  the  little  bottles  in  his  pockets  were  broken  and  crushed.  Cook,  too,  was  dead,  and  his  ink-black  tongue  protrud-  ed  from  his  mouth.  I  pried  open  Greg-  son's  fingers  and  turned  his  body  over.  His  lips  were  half  open  and  bloody;  his  face,  which  already  seemed  hardened,  appeared  badly  shaven;  the  bluish  whites  of  his  eyes  showed  between  the  lids.  For  the  last  time,  I  saw  all  this  distinctly,  consciously,  with  the  seal  of  authenticity  on  everything-their  skinned  knees,the  bright  flies  circling  over  them,  the  females  of  those  flies,  already  seeking  a  spot  for  oviposition.  Fumbling  with  my  enfeebled  hands,  I  took  a  fat  notebook  out  of  my  shirt  pocket,  but  here  I  was  overcome  by  weakness;  I  sat  down  and  my  head  drooped.  And  yet  I  conquered  this  impatient  fog  of  death  and  looked  around.  Blue  air,  heat,  solitude  ..  .  And  how  sorry  I  felt  for  Gregson,  who  would  never  return  home!  I  even  re-  membered  his  wife  and  old  cook,  his  parrots,  and  many  other  things.  Then  I  thought  about  our  discoveries,  our  precious  finds,  the  rare,  still  undescribed  plants  and  creatures  that  now  would  never  be  named  by  us.  I  was  alone.  Hazier  flashed  the  reeds,  dimmer  flamed  the  sky.  My  eyes  followed  an  exquisite  beetle  that  was  crawling  across  a  stone,  but  I  had  no  strength  left  to  catch  it.  Everything  around  me  was  fading,  leav-  ing  bare  the  scenery  of  death-some  realistic  furniture  and  four  walls  My  last  motion  was  to  open  the  book,  which  was  damp  with  my  sweat,  for  I  absolute,  ly  had  to  make  a  note  of  something;  but,  alas,  it  slipped  out  of  my  hand.  I  groped  all  along  the  blanket,  but  the  book  was  no  longer  there."