 b"I  SOMETIMES  wonder  if  the  gen-  I  eration  of  mothers  who  from  1910  to  1940  sent  their  five-year-olds  to  the  kindergarten  of  Miss  Effie  Barr  had  much  of  an  idea  what  their  children  were  learning  in  her  one-room  school-  house.  Even  though  in  1930  the  South-  ern  town  in  which  she  lived  was  no  longer  small,  and  even  though  she  was  already  in  her  seventies,  Miss  Effic  knew  all  of  the  children  in  her  school  a  year,  and  often  longer,  before  they  ap-  peared  before  her  for  lessons.  My  moth-  er,  properly  gloved  and  chapeaued,  be-  gan  taking  me  to  call  on  her  when  I  was  four.  Her  house  was  a  good  place  to  visit.  It  was  large  and  gray,  and  was  set  well  back  from  the  same  street  that  I  lived  on.  It  was  the  last  &quot;white&quot;  house  be-  fore  the  Negro  part  of  town,  and  the  first  Negro  houses  had  been,  up  until  the  depression,  part  of  the  Barr  prop-  erties.  'There  were  mossy  brick  steps  leading  from  a  hitching  post  up  to  a  gravel  walk  that  curved  between  over-  grown  boxwoods  to  a  low  porch  with  twelve  slender  columns.  There,  in  the  summer,  in  the  shade  of  water  oaks,  Miss  Effie,  dressed  in  black,  would  be  sit-  ting,  knitting  or  embroidering,  while  her  big  gray  cat  sat  at,  and  sometimes  on,  her  feet.  Slow,  uncertain  music  would  be  coming  through  open  windows  from  the  music  room,  where  her  older  sis-  ter,  Miss  [REDACTED],  gave  piano  lessons.  Miss  Effie  never  seemed  to  watch  a  child  on  such  visits,  or  of-  fer  him  anything  like  cookies  or  lemonade,  or  say  anything  to  endear  herself  to  a  youngster.  Instead,  she  would  talk  lady  talk  with  the  mother  and,  hardly  pausing,  say  to  the  child,  &quot;You  can  pull  up  the  wild  onions  on  the  lawn  if  you've  noth-  ing  better  to  do.&quot;  There  was  no  sug-  gestion  in  her  voice  that  it  was  a  game  or  that  there  would  be  a  reward.  She  simply  stated  what  could  be  done  if  one  took  a  notion.  Usually  achild  did.  There  was  no  nonsense  about  Miss  Effie.  One  morning  in  late  September,  my  mother  and  I  were  standing  with  eleven  other  mothers  and  children  on  the  porch.  Miss  Effie  looked  everyone  over  carefully  from  where  she  stood  with  one  hand  on  the  screen  door.  She  checked  a  list  in  the  other  hand  against     the  young  faces  on  the  porch,  to  be  sure  that  these  were  the  children  she  had  chosen  from  the  forty  or  more  who  had  visited  her  in  the  summer.  Apparently  satisfied,  or  at  least  reconciled  to  another  year  of  supplementing  her  income  (for  no  Southern  lady  of  her  generation  &quot;worked&quot;  ),  she  opened  the  doorwide  and  said,  in  her  indifferent  tone,  &quot;Chil-  dren  inside.&quot;  When  one  mother  tried  to  lead  her  reluctant  son  into  the  dark  parlor,  Miss  Effie  said,  &quot;Mothers  out-  side.&quot;  When  the  children  were  all  inside  and  the  mothers  outside,  Miss  Effie  latched  the  screen,  thanked  the  mothers  for  bringing  the  children,  and  reminded  them  that  classes  began  at  eight-thirty  and  ended  at  noon.  The  tuition,  two  dollars  a  week,  would  be  acceptable  each  Friday,  and  each  child,  as  part  of  his  training,  should  be  given  the  respon-  sibility  of  delivering  the  money  in  an  envelope  bearing  the  parent's  signature.  She  thanked  the  mothers  again  in  such  a  way  that  there  was  nothing  for  them  to  do  except  wander  together  in  a  group  down  the  gravel  walk.  Miss  Effie  then  turned  to  us,  who  were  standing  somewhat  closer  together  than  was  necessary,  in  the  center  of  the  dark  parlor,  and  said,  &quot;Since  this  is  your  first  day,  I  want  to  show  you  everything.  'Then  you  won't  be  wondering  about  things  while  you  should  be  listening.&quot;  She  made  us  look  at  the  Oriental  carpet,  the  grandfather's  clock,  the  bookcases  ofleather-  bound  volumes,  the  shelves  on  which  were  collections  of  rocks,  shells,  birds'  nests,  and  petrified  wood.  She  of-  fered  to  let  us  touch,  just  this  once,  any  of  these  things.  She  would  not  let  us  into  the  music  room,  which  was  then  empty,  but  in-  dicated  through  the  doorway  the  im-  ported  grand  piano,  the  red  plush  seat  where  Miss  [REDACTED]  sat  during  lessons,  the  music  racks,  the  ferns,  and  the  win-  dow  seats,  which  she  said  were  full  of  sheet  music.  &quot;You're  never  to  go  in  there,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  don't  go  in  there  myself.&quot;  Next,  she  showed  us  the  dining  room,  the  den,  and  the  hallway,  and  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs  she  said,  &quot;We're  go-  ing  upstairs,  and  then  you'll  never  go  up  there  again.&quot;  Barbara  Ware,  one " b"of three  girls  in  our  class,  began  to  whimper,  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  Miss  Effie  said,  &quot;you'll  come  back  down.  But  there'll  be  no  reason  to  goup  again.  I  want  you  to  see  everything,  so  you  won't  have  to  ask  personal  questions,  which  would  certainly  be  the  height  of  impoliteness,  wouldn't  it?  I  mean,  if  you  started  wanting  to  know,  with-  out  my  telling  you,  where  I  sleep  and  which  window  is  Miss  [REDACTED]'s,  1d  think  youwere  rude,  wouldn't  I'  T'll  show  you  everything,  so  you  won't  be  tempted  to  ask  personal  questions.&quot;  We  went  upstairs,  and  she  showed  us  her  room  and  where  she  kept  her  shoes  (in  the  steps  leading  up  to  the  side  of  her  fourposter  bed),  where  she  hung  her  clothes  (in  two  large  armoires)  and  kept  her  hatbox  (ina  teakwood  sea  chest).  The  cat,  she  said,  slept  on  the  sea  chest  if  he  hap-  pened  to  be  home  at  night.  She  then  knocked  on  the  door  of  Miss  [REDACTED]'s  room  and  asked  her  sis-  ter,  who  was  inside,  if  we  might  look  in.  Miss  [REDACTED]  agreed  to  a  short  visit.  After  that,  Miss  Effie  showed  us  the  upstairs  bathroom  and  explained  that  &quot;|  the  bathtub  faucet  dripped  all  night  and  that  was  why  a  towel  was  kept  under  it.  Downstairs  again,  Miss  Effie  let  us  see  the  &quot;new&quot;&quot;  kitchen,  which  was  built  in  1900,  and  the  back  porch,  which  had  been  screened  in  only  four  years  before,  and  which  had  a  small  door  through  which  the  cat  could  come  and  go  as  he  liked.  We  were  as  fascinated  by  everything  as  we  would  have  been  if  we  had  never  seen  a  house  before.  &quot;Now,  out  the  back  door.  All  of  '|  you.&quot;  She  made  us  all  stand  on  the  ground,  off  the  steps,  while  she  low-  ered  herself,  step  by  step,  with  the  aid  of  a  cane  that  she  kept  on  a  nail  by  the  door.  &quot;Now  you've  seen  my  house  and  you  won't  see  it  again.  Unless  I  give  your  mothers  fruitcake  and  coffee  at  Christmas.  And  I  don't  think  I  will.  Not  this  year.  Do  you  ever  get  tired  of  fruitcake  and  coffee  at  Christmas?&quot;  We  said  we  did,  since  it  was  clear  that  she  did.  &quot;Over  there  is  the  barn,  and  we'll  see  it  some  other  time,  and  that  is  the  greenhouse,  and  we'll  be  seeing  it  often.  And  here  is  the  classroom,  where  we'll  be.&quot;  She  pointed  with  her  cane  to  a  square  brick  building  that  before  the  Civil  War  had  been  the  kitchen.  The  door  was  open.  She  shepherded  us  along  a  brick  walk  with  her  cane,  not  allowing  any  of  us  near  enough  to  her  to  topple  her  over.  At  the  door,  she  said,  &quot;Go  on  in.&quot;  We  crowded  in,  and  when  we  were" b"all  through  the  door  she  summoned  us  back  out.  &quot;Now,  which  of  you  are  boys?&quot;  The  nineboys  raised  their  hands,  following  her  lead.  &quot;And  which  girls?&quot;  The  three  girls  had  already  separated  themselves  from  the  boys,  and  nodded  together.  &quot;All  right,  then,  young  gentlemen,&quot;  she  said,  regarding  us,  &quot;let's  let  the  young  ladies  enter  first.  Or  I  may  think  you're  all  young  ladies.&quot;  The  girls,  looking  timid  and  pleased,  entered.  We  started  in  after  them.  &quot;Wait  just  a  minute,  young  gentle-  men,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Haven't  you  forgot-  ten  something?&quot;  We  looked  about  for  another  girl.  &quot;Me!&quot;  she  announced.  &quot;You've  for-  gotten  me!&quot;  She  passed  through  our  huddle,  separating  us  with  her  stick,  and  marched  into  the  kitchen.  Inside,  as  well  as  out,  the  kitchen  was  mainly  of  brick.  The  walls  and  floor  were  brick,  and  the  hearth  and  the  huge  chimney,  except  for  a  closet-cupboard  on  each  side  of  it,  were  brick.  The  ceiling,  however,  was  of  beams  and  broad  boards,  and  the  windows  were  of  wavy  glass  in  casements  that  opened  out  like  shutters.  There  were  three  large  wooden  tables,  and  at  each  table  four  chairs.  Again  she  had  to  show  us  everything.  The  fireplace  would  be  used  in  only  the  coldest  weather,  she  said.  At  other  times,  an  iron  stove  at  one  side  of  the  room  would  be  used.  A  captain's  chair,  between  the  fireplace  and  the  stove,  was  her  own  and  not  to  be  touched  by  us.  A  sewing  table,  overflowing  with  yarn  and  knitting  needles,  was  for  her  own  use,  and  not  for  ours.  One  cupboard,  the  one  near  her,  held  dishes.  She  opened  its  door.  She  would  let  us  see  in  the  other  cupboard  later.  The  tables  and  chairs  and,  at  the  far  end  of  the  room,  some  pegs  for  coats  were  all  ours,  to  do  with  as  we  pleased.  It  was,  she  explained,  our  schoolroom,  and  there-  fore,  since  we  were  young  ladies  and  gentlemen,  she  was  sure  we  would  keep  it  clean.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  she  saw  no  rea-  son  why  we  should  not  begin  with  the  first  lesson:  Sweeping  and  Dusting.  She  opened  the  other  cupboard  and  showed  us  a  mop,  a  bucket,  some  rags  and  brushes,  and  three  brooms.  We  were  not  divided  into  teams;  we  were  not  given  certain  areas  to  see  who  could  sweep  his  area  cleanest;  we  were  simply  told  that  young  ladies  should  naturally  be  able  to  sweep  and  that  young  gentle-  men  at  some  times  in  their  lives  would  certainly  be  expected  to  sweep  a  room  clean.  The  instruction  was  simple:  &quot;You " b"get  a  good  grip  on  the  handle  and  set  to.&quot;  She  handed  out  the  three  brooms  and  started  us  boys  sweeping  from  the  fireplace  toward  the  front  door.  She  made  simple  corrections:  &quot;'You'll  raise  a  dust,  flirting  the  broom  upward.  Keep  it  near  the  floor.&quot;  &quot;Hold  lower  on  the  handle.  You'll  get  more  dirt.&quot;  &quot;Don't  bend  over.  You'll  be  tired  before  the  floor  is  clean.&quot;  While  we  swept,  Miss  Effie  made  a  big  red  enamel  coffeepot  of  coffee  on  a  small  alcohol  stove.  Since  the  room  had  rot  been  swept,  she  admitted,  all  sum-  mer,  there  was  a  respectable  pile  of  brick  dust,  sand,  and  sweepings  near  the  door  by  the  time  she  said,  &quot;We'll  have  lunch  now.&quot;  It  was  already  ten  o'clock.  &quot;Aft-  er  lunch,  I'll  teach  you  how  to  take  up  |  trash  and  to  dust.  Everyone  needs  to  know  that.&quot;  &quot;Lunch,&quot;  it  happened,  was  half  a  mug  of  coffee  each.  One  spoon  of  sugar,  she  said,  was  sufficient  if  we  felt  it  nec-  essary  to  use  sugar  at  all  (she  didn't);  there  was  milk  for  those  who  could  not  |  or  would  not  (she  spoke  as  though  using  milk  were  a  defect  of  character)  take  their  coffee  black.  I  daresay  not  any  of  ;~  us  had  ever  had  coffee  before,  and  Rob-  ert  Barnes  said  he  hadn't.  &quot;Good!&quot;  Miss  Effie  said.  &quot;Soyou  ,  have  learned  something  today.&quot;  Miriam  Wells,  however,  said,  on  re-  flection,  that  her  parents  wouldn't  ap-  prove  of  her  drinking  coffee.  _  &quot;Very  well,&quot;  Miss  Effie  said.  &quot;Don't  drink  it.  And  the  next  time  I  offer  you  any,  if  I  ever  do,  simply  say  'No,  thank  you,  Ma'am.&quot;  &quot;  (The  next  day,  Miriam  Wells  was  drinking  it  along  with  the  rest  of  us.)  &quot;Let's  get  this  clear  right  this  minute-your  parents  don't  need  to  know  what  you  do  when  you're  un-  der  my  instruction.&quot;  Her  firm  words  gave  us  a  warm  feel-  ing,  and  from  that  moment  on  the  schoolroom  became  a  special,  safe,  and  rather  secret  place.  That  day,  we  learned,  further,  how  to  rinse  out  mugs  and  place  them  in  a  pan  to  be  boiled  later,  how  to  take  up  trash,  and  how  to  dust.  At  noon,  we  were  taught  the  right  way  to  put  on  our  sweaters  or  coats,  how  to  approach,  one  at  a  time,  our  teacher  (or  any  lady  we  should  happen  to  be  visiting)  and  say  &quot;'Thank  you&quot;  (for  the  coffee  or  what-  ever  we  had  been  served),  and  how  to  say  goodbye  and  turn  and  leave  the  room  without  running  or  laughing.  It  wasn't  as  easy  as  you  may  think.  HE  next  morning,  RobertBarnes  was  waiting  on  his  steps  when  I  walked  by  his  house.  Since  he  and  I " b"lived  nearer  to  the  Barrs'  than  any  of  the  other  children,  we  were  the  first  to  arrive  at  the  schoolhouse.  Miss  Effie  sat  in  her  captain's  chair  brushing  the  cat,  which  lay  on  a  tall  stool  in  front  of  her.  We  entered  with-  out  speaking.  Without  looking  up,  Miss  Effie  said,  &quot;Now,  young  gentlemen,  let's  try  that  again-outside.  Take  off  your  caps  before  you  step  through  the  door,  and  say  'Good  morning,  Ma  am'  as  you  come  through  the  door.  Smile  if  you  feel  like  it.  Don't  if  you  don't.&quot;  She  herself  did  not  smile  as  we  went  out  and  reentered  in  the  manner  she  suggested.  However,  this  time  she  looked  directly  at  us  when  she  returned  our  &quot;Good  morning's.  Later,  each  child  who  entered  the  room  in  what  she  felt  to  be  a  rude  way  was  sent  out  to  try  again.  Strangely  enough,  she  did  not  smile  at  anyone,  and  looking  back  Isee  now  that  part  of  her  efficiency  was  that  she  treated  each  child  as  an  adult  and  each  lesson  as  though  it  were  a  serious  task.  Even  though  there  were  occasional  cry-  ing  scenes  or  temper  tantrums  among  us,  she  herself  never  lost  her  firm,  ra-  tional  approach,  Sitting  in  her  captain's  chair,  dressed  in  black  from  neck  to  toe,  except  for  a  cameo,  small  gold  loop  ear-  rings,  and  a  gold  opal  ring  on  her  right  hand,  she  was  usually  as  solemn  and  considerate  as  a  judge  on  his  bench.  It  is  strange  that  I  can  remember  her  calm  expression  and  the  dignity  of  her  bear-  ing,  but  not  one  feature  of  her  angular  face.  That  morning,  Miss  Effie  waited  un-  til  all  of  us  were  properly  in  before  addressing  us  as  a  class.  &quot;This  is  Mr.  Thomas,&quot;  she  said  of  the  cat  on  the  stool.  &quot;He's  a  no-good  cat  and  he  doesn't  like  children,  so  leave  him  alone.  I'd  have  nothing  to  do  with  him  myself  except  that  he  happens  to  belong  to  me  because  his  motherand  grandmother  belonged  to  me.  They  were  no  good,  either.  But  since  he  does  belong  to  me  and  since  he  is  here,  we  may  as  well  talk  about  cats.&quot;  She  showed  us  how  to  brush  a  cat,  how  he  liked  to  be  rubbed  under  his  neck,  how  he  didn't  like  his  ears  or  whiskers  touched,  how  his  ears  turned  to  pick  up  sounds,  how  he  stretched  and  shut  his  paw  pads  when  he  was  tickled  on  the  stomach  or  feet,  and  how  he  twitched  his  tail  when  annoyed.  &quot;Mr.  Thomas  is  a  fighter,&quot;  she  said,  and  let  us  look  at  the  scars  from  a  dozen  or  more  fights,  &quot;and  he's  getting  too  old  to  fight,  but  he  hasn't  got  sense  enough  to  know  that.&quot;  She  looked  at  us  where  we  stood  in" b"more  or  less  a  large  circle  around  her.  &quot;Now,  let's  see,  I  don't  know  your  names.  I  know  your  mothers,  but  not  your  names.&quot;  She  would,  she  said,  in-  dicate  us  one  at  a  time  and  we  were  to  give  our  names  in  clear,  loud  voices  while  looking  her  right  in  the  eye.  Then  we  were  to  choose  a  chair  at  one  of  the  three  tables.  &quot;I  hate  the  way  most  people  become  shy  when  they  say  their  names.  Be  proud  of  it  and  speak  up.&quot;  When  the  young  ladies  had  finished  giving  their  names,  she  said  they  did  ad-  mirably  well;  they  chose  to  sit  at  the  same  table.  One  or  two  boys  shouted  their  names  in  a  silly  fashion  and  had  to  repeat.  One  or  two  looked  away,  to  de-  cide  on  a  chair  or  to  watch  the  cat,  they  claimed,  and  so  had  to  repeat.  I  did  not  speak  loud  enough  and  had  to  say  my  name  three  times.  One  lad  refused  to  say  his  name  a  second  time,  and  that  day  and  the  next  she  called  him  Mr.  No-  Name.  The  third  day  afterward,  he  did  not  appear,  nor  the  fourth  nor  fifth,  and  the  next  week  a  new  boy  from  the  waiting  list  gave  his  name  in  a  per-  fect  fashion  and  took  Mr.  No-Name's  place.  We  learned  about  cats  and  names  the  second  day,  then.  The  following  day,  Barbara  Ware  and  Robert  Barnes  distinguished  themselves  by  claiming  to  like  their  coffee  black  with  no  sugar,  just  the  way  Miss  Effie  was  convinced  it  should  be  drunk.  At  the  end  of  the  second  week,  we  reviewed  what  we  had  learned  by  sweeping  and  dusting  the  room  again.  And  each  day  we  practiced  coming  in  and  leaving  properly  and  saying  our  name  in  a  way  that  sounded  as  though  we  were  proud  of  it  and  of  ourselves-  which  by  then  we  were.  The  third  week,  putting  down  the  cat  brush  and  shooing  Mr.  Thomas  off" b"the  stool,  Miss  Effie  said  that  she,  too,  was  proud  ofthe  way  we  identified  our-  selves  with  eyes  level  and  unblinking.  &quot;But  [REDACTED];  she  said,  &quot;I  want  to  teach  you  to  give  a  name  that  is  not  your  own.  Without  any  shiftiness.&quot;  She  sat  with  both  thin  hands  clasp-  ing  the  arms  of  her  chair  and  gave  a  short  lecture.  Not  everyone,  she  said,  was  entitled  to  know  your  name.  Some  people  ofa  certain  sort  would  ask  when  it  was  none  of  their  business.  It  would  be  unnecessarily  rude  to  tell  them  so.  But  we  could  simply  tell  such  people  a  name  that  had  nothing  whatever  to  do  with  our  own,.  She  did  not  mention  kid-  nappings,  but  talked  rather  about  ruth-  less  salesmen,  strangers  on  buses  and  trains,  and  tramps  and  beggars  wander-  ing  through  the  neighborhood.  For  the  purpose  of  practice,  all  of  the  young  ladies  would  learn  to  give,  in  a  courteous,  convincing  manner,  the  name  &quot;Polly  Livingstone.&quot;  The  boys  would  be,  when  asked,  &quot;William  John-  son&quot;  (a  name  I  can  still  give  with  much  more  conviction  than  my  own).  'That  day  and  the  next,  each  ofus  gave  his  real  name  before  the  coffee  break,  and  after  coffee  his  false  name.  We  liked  the  exercises  wherein  we  went  up  to  her,  shook  her  hand  if  she  offered  it,  and  gave  our  false  names,  confronting,  without  staring,  her  solemn  gaze  with  ours.  If  we  smiled,  or  twisted,  we  had  to  stand  by  the  fireplace  until  we  could  display  more  poise.  T  the  end  of  the  first  month,  Miss  Effic  said  that  she  was  fairly  well  pleased  with  our  progress.  &quot;I  have  taught  you,  thus  far,  mainly  about  rooms.  Most  people  spend  most  of  their  lives  in  rooms,  and  now  you  know  about  them.&quot;  She  mentioned  some  of  the  things  we  had  learned.  &quot;What  else  have  we  learned  about  rooms?&quot;  she  then  asked,  letting  Mr.  Thomas  out  the  window  onto  the  sunny  ledge  where  he  liked  to  sit.  &quot;How  to  drink  coffee,&quot;  Wells  said,  rather  proudly.  &quot;No,&quot;  Miss  Effie  said,  &quot;that  has  to  do  with  another  series,  which  includes  how  to  accept  things  and  how  to  get  rid  of  things  you  don't  want-fat  meat,  bones,  seeds,  pits,  peelings,  and  [she  added  under  her  breath]  parents.&quot;  She  paused  for  a  moment  and  looked  pleased,  as  though  she  might  wink  or  smile,  but  her  angular  face  did  not  change  its  expression  very  much.  &quot;No.  Besides,  I'm  not  pleased  with  the  way  you're  drinking  coffee.&quot;  She  then  said  for  the  first  time  a  speech  that  she  re-  peated  so  often  that  by  the  end  of  the" b"year  we  sometimes  shouted  it  in  our  play  on  the  way  home,  &quot;Coffee  is  a  beverage  to  be  enjoyed  for  its  flavor.  It  is  not  a  food  to  be  enriched  withmilk  and  sugar.  Only  certain  types  of  people  try  to  gain  nourishment  from  it.  In  general,  they  are  the  ones,  I  suspect,  who  show  their  emotions  in  public.&quot;  (We  had,  I'm  sure,  no  idea  what  the  speech  meant.)  She  expected  all  ofus  by  June,  possibly  by  Christmas,  to  be  drinking  it  black.  &quot;Is  there  anything  else  we  need  to  know  about  rooms?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;How  to  build  them,&quot;  Phillip  Pike  said.  &quot;That,&quot;  Miss  Effie  said,  &quot;you  can't  learn  from  me.  Unfortunately.  I  wish  I  knew.&quot;  She  looked  thoughtfully  out  the  window  to  the  ledge  on  which  Mr.  Thomas  was  grooming  himself.  &quot;Win-  dows!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;How  to  clean  win-  dows.&quot;  Again  the  cupboard  was  opened,  and  by  noon  the  next  day  we  knew  how  to  clean  windows,  inside  and  out,  and  how  to  adjust  all  the  shades  in  a  room  to  the  same  level.  When  it  turned  cold  in  November,  cold  enough  for  the  stove  but  not  the  fireplace,  we  settled  down  to  the  real  work  that  gaveMiss  Effie's  kinder-  garten  its  reputation.  Reading.  Miss  Effie  liked  to  read,  and  it  was  well  known  in  the  town  and  especially  among  the  public-school  teachers  that  the  two  or  three  hundred  children  she  had  taught  had  grown  up  reading  ev-  erything  they  could  find.  She  assured  us  that  even  though  we  were  only  five  years  old,  we  would  be  reading  better  than  the  third-grade  schoolchildren  by  the  end  of  the  year.  Each  morning,  the  stove  was  already  hot  when  we  arrived.  She  would  brush  Thomas  awhile,  and  then,  when  we  were  all  in  our  places  and  warm,  she  would  hand  out  our  reading  books,  which  we  opened  every  day  to  the  first  page  and  laid  flat  before  us  on  the  tables.  While  we  looked  at  the  first  page,  she  began  heating  the  big  red  enamel  pot  of  coffee,  and  also,  because  we  now  needed  nourishment  to  keep  warm,  a  black  iron  pot  of  oatmeal.  Then  Miss  Effie  would  sit  down,  allow  Thomas  to  jump  into  her  lap,  and  begin  reading,  always  from  the  first  page,  in  an  excited  tone.  She  would  read  to  the  point  ex-  actly  where  we  had  finished  the  day  be-  fore,  so  that  from  necessity  she  read  faster  each  day,  while  we  turned  our  pages,  which  we  knew  by  heart,  when  we  saw  her  ready  to  turn  hers.  Then,  one  after  another,  we  went  up  to  her  and  sat  on  Mr.  Thomas's   " b"stool  by  the  stove  and  read  aloud  to  her  while  those  at  the  tables  either  listened  or  read  or  played  with  architectural  blocks.  The  child  on  the  stool  was  re-  warded  at  the  end  of  each  sentence  with  two  spoonfuls  of  oatmeal  if  he  read  well,  one  if  not  so  well.  Since  we  each  read  twice,  once  before  coffee  and  once  after,  we  did  not  really  get  hungry  be-  fore  we  left  the  school  at  noon.  Of  course,  those  who  read  fast  and  well  ate  more  oatmeal  than  the  others.  In  addition  to  the  reading  lessons,  which  were  the  most  important  part  of  the  day,  we  learned  to  take  money  and  shopping  lists  to  Mr.  Zenacher's  gro-  cery  store,  to  pay  for  groceries,  and  to  bring  them  back  with  the  change.  Usually  two  or  three  of  us  went  to-  gether  to  the  store,  which  was  in  the  next  block.  At  the  same  time,  three  or  four  others  might  be  learning  to  paint  flowerpots  or  to  catch  frying-size  chickens  in  the  chicken  yardback  of  the  barn.  On  sunny  days  that  winter,  we  would  all  go  out  to  the  greenhouse  for  an  hour  and  learn  to  reset  ferns  and  to  start  bulbs  on  wet  beds  of  rock.  In  March,  we  learned  how  to  rake  Miss  Effic's  tennis  court,  to  fill  in  any  holes  with  powdery  sand,  and  to  line  up  and  tie  strings  properly  so  that  later  a  Negro  yardman  could  mark  the  lines  on  the  court  with  lime.  'The  tennis  court  was  for  rent  to  high-school  girls  and  boys  in  the  afternoons  during  the  spring  and  summer.  By  Easter  time,  we  were  all  proficient  sweepers,  dusters,  shoppers,  bulb-set-  ters,  readers,  and  black-coffee  drinkers.  Miss  Effie  herself,  now  that  spring  was  in  the  air,  hated  to  sit  all  morning  by  the  stove,  where  we'd  been  all  winter.  Usually,  after  an  hour  or  so  of  reading,  all  aloud  and  at  once,  we  would  follow  her  into  the  yard  and  prune  the  &quot;first-  breath-of-spring,&quot;  the  jessamine,  the  yellow  bells,  and  the  peach  and  pear  trees.  We  kept  the  branches  we  cut  off  and  we  stuck  them  in  buckets  of  water  in  the  greenhouse.  Miss  Effie  printed  a  sign  that  said  &quot;Flowers  for  Sale,&quot;  and  we  helped  her  tie  it  to  a  tree  near  the  sidewalk.  In  addition  to  the  flowering  branches  that  we  had  forced,  she  sold  ferns  and  the  jonquils  that  we  had  set  and  that  were  now  in  bud.  All  in  all,  spring  was  a  busy  time.  And  I  remember  only  one  other  thing  we  learned.  One  warm  May  morning,  we  arrived  to  find  Mr.  Thomas,  badly  torn  about  the  ears,  his  eyes  shut,  his  breathing  noisy,  on  a  folded  piece  of  carpet  near  the  open " b"door  of  the  schoolhouse.  We  wanted  to  pet  him  and  talk  to  him,  but  Miss  Effie,  regarding  him  constantly,  said  no,  that  he  had  obviously  been  not  only  a  bad  cat  but  a  foolish  one.  She  believed  he  had  been  hit  by  a  car  while  running  from  some  dogs,  and  thatthat  was  how  the  dogs  got  to  him.  (She  and  Miss  [REDACTED]  had  heard  the  fight  during  the  night.)  At  any  rate,  he  had  man-  aged  to  crawl  under  the  steps,  where  the  dogs  couldn't  get  to  him  any  more.  At  dawn,  she  had  come  down  and  thrown  hot  water  on  the  dogs  and  res-  cued  him.  As  soon  as  a  Negro  boy  from  her  cousin's  office  arrived  (her  cousin  was  a  doctor),  she  was  going  to  teach  us  how  to  put  a  catto  sleep,  she  said.  We  pointed  out  that  he  already  seemed  to  be  asleep.  &quot;But,&quot;  she  explained,  not  taking  her  eyes  from  the  cat,  &quot;we  are  going  to  put  him  to  sleepso  that  he  won't  wake  LIP.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;You're  going  to  kill  him?&quot;  Robert  Barnes  said.  &quot;You  could  say  that.&quot;  We  were  all  greatly  disturbed  when  we  understood  that  this  was  the  last  we  would  see  of  Mr.  Thomas.  But  Miss  Effie  had  no  sympathy,  apparently,  for  the  cat  or  for  us.  &quot;He  is  suffering,  and  even  if  he  is  a  no-good  cat,  he  shouldn't  suffer.&quot;  When  Barbara  Ware  began  to  whimper,  Miss  Effie  said,  &quot;Animals  are  not  people.&quot;  Her  tone  was  severe  enough  to  stop  Barbara  from  crying.  After  the  Negro  boy  had  arrived  with  the  package  and  left,  Miss  Effie" b"stopped  her  reading,  and,  going  to  one  of  the  cupboards,  she  got  out  a  canvas  bag  with  a  drawstring  top.  &quot;Now,  if  you  young  ladies  will  follow  us,  I'll  ask  the  young  gentlemen  to  bring  Mr.  Thomas.&quot;  We  all  rushed  to  be  the  ones  to  lift  the  piece  of  carpet  and  bear  Mr.  Thomas  after  her,  through  her  garden,  to  the  tool  shed.  &quot;Just  wrap  the  carpet  around  him.  Tight.  Head  and  all,&quot;  she  instructed  when  we  reached  the  tool  shed.  After  we  had  him  wrapped  securely,  Miss  Effie  opened  the  package  and  read  the  label:  &quot;Chloroform.&quot;  She  explained  to  us  the  properties  of  the  chemical  while  we  rolled  the  cat  tighter  and  stuck  him,  tail  first,  into  the  canvas  bag.  Miss  Effie  asked  us  to  stan  d  back  and  hold  *  our  breath.  She  then  soaked  a  large  rag  with  the  liquid  and  poured  the  rest  directly  onto  the  cat's  head  and  on  the  carpet.  She  poked  the  rag  into  the  rolled  carpet  so  that  it  hid  Mr.  Thomas  completely.  She  then  drew  the  draw-  string  tight  and  slung  the  cat,  bag  and  all,  into  the  tool  shed  .  She  shut  the  doo  r  ]&quot;  firmly  and  latche  d  it.  &quot;That  'll  cut  out  |  the  air,&quot;  she  said.  Back  in  the  schoolhouse,  we  tried  to  },  listen  as  she  read,  without  her  usual  ex-  cited  tone,  but  we  were  all  thinking  about  Mr.  Thomas  in  the  tool  shed.  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,&quot;  she  finally  said,  &quot;f  you  will  excuse  me  a  moment,  I'll  go  see  if  my  cat  is  dead.&quot;  We  watched  from  the  windows  as  she  walked  with  her  cane  through  the  garden  to  the  tool  shed.  We  could  see  her  open  the  door  and  bend  over  the  sack  for  a  long  time.  At  last,  she  straightened  up  and  locked  the  door  again.  She  came  back  with  the  same  un-  halting  gait  and  stood  for  a  moment  in  the  sun  before  the  open  door  of  the  schoolhouse.  &quot;When  I  dismiss  you,  you're  to  go  straight  home.  And  if  they  want  to  know  why  you're  home  early&quot;-she  stopped  and  studied  the  ground  as  though  she  had  lost  there  her  cameo  or  her  words-''tell  them  the  only  thing  Miss  Effie  had  to  teach  you  today  was  how  to  kill  a  cat.&quot;  Without  waiting  for  us  to  leave,  she  walked  in  her  usual  dignified  fashion  down  the  brick  walk  and  up  the  back  steps  and  into  her  house,  shutting  the  kitchen  door  firmly  behind  her.  I  know  that  that  was  not  the  last  day  of  school,  for  I  remember  helping  to  spread  table-  cloths  over  the  reading  tables,  and  I  re-  member  helping  to  serve  teacakes  to  the  mothers  who  came  the  last  day  and  stood  on  the  tennis  court  near  a  table " b' where  Miss  [REDACTED]  was  serving  coffee.  But  the  final,  definite  picture  I  have  of  Miss  Effie  is  that  of  her  coming  through  the  garden  from  the  tool  shed  and  standing  in  the  doorway  a  moment  to  say  that  she  had  nothing  more  to  teach  us. '