 b"COMING  back  from  Europe  that year,  I  was  booked  on  an  old  DC-7  that  burned  out  an  engine  in  mid-Atlantic.  Most  of  the  passengers  seemed  either  asleep  or  drugged,  and  in  the  forward  section  of  the  plane  no  one  saw  the  flames  but  a  little  girl,  an  old  man,  and  me.  When  the  fire  died  down,  the  plane  veered  violently,  throwing  open  the  door  to  the  crew's  quarters.  There  I  saw  the  crew  and  the  two  stewardesses,  wearing  inflated  life  jackets.  One  of  the  stewardesses  shut  the  door,  but  the  captain  came  out  a  few  minutes  later  and  explained,  in  a  fatherly  whisper,  that  we  had  lost  an  engine  and  were  heading  either  for  Iceland  or  [REDACTED].  Some  time  later,  he  came  in  and  said  we  would  be  land-  ing  in  [REDACTED]  in  half  an  hour.  Two  hours  later,  we  landed  at  Orly,  to  the  astonishment  of  all  those  who  had  been  asleep.  We  boarded  another  DC-7  and  started  back  acrossthe  Atlantic,  and  when  we  finally  landed  at  Idlewild  we  had  been  travelling  in  cramped  condi-  tions  for  about  twenty-seven  hours.  I  took  abus  into  New  York  and  a   cab  to  Grand  Central  Station.  It  was  an  off  hour-seven-thirty  or  eight  o'clock  in  the  evening.  The  newsstands  were  shut,  and  the  few  people  on  the  streets  were  alone  and  seemed  lonely.  There  was  not  a  train  to  where  I  was  going  for  an  hour,  so  I  went  into  a  restaurant  near  the  station  and  ordered  the  plat  du  jour.  The  dilemma  of  an  expatriated  American  eating  his  first  restaurant  meal  at  home  has  been  worked  over  too  often  to  be  repeated  here.  After  paying  the  check,  I  went  down  some  stairs  to  find  the  amenities.  The  place  I  entered  had  marble  par-  titions-a  gesture,  I  suppose,  toward  ennobling  this  realm.  The  marble  was  a  light  brown-it  might  have  been  a  giallo  antico,  but  then  I  noticed  Paleo-  zoic  fossils  beneath  the  high  polish  and  guessed  that  the  stone  was  a  madre-  pore.  The  near  side  of  the  polish  was  covered  with  writing.  The  penman-  ship  was  legible,  although  it  hadno  character  or  symmetry.  What  was  un-  usual  was  the  copiousness  of  the  writ-  ing  and  the  fact  that  it  was  organized  into  panels,  like  the  pages  of  a  book.  I  had  never  seen  anything  like  this  be-  fore.  My  deepest  instinct  was  to  over-  look  the  writing  and  study  the  fossils,  but  isn't  the  writing  of  a  man  more  lasting  and  wonderful  than  a  Paleozoic  coral?  I  read:  It  had  been  a  day  of  triumph  in  Capua.  Lentulus,  returning  with  victorious  eagles,  had  amused  the  populace  with  the  sports  of  the  amphitheatre  to  an  extent  hitherto  un-  known,  even  in  that  luxurious  city.  The  shouts  of  revelry  had  died  away;  the  roar  of  the  lion  had  ceased;  the  last  loiterer  had  retired  from  the  banquet,  and  the  lights  in  the  palace  of  the  victor  were  extinguished.  The  moon,  piercing  the  tissue  of  fleecy  clouds,  silvered  the  dewdrop  on  the  corse-  let  of  the  Roman  sentinel  and  tipped  the  dark  waters  of  V  ulturnus  with  wavy,  trem-  ulous  light.  It  was  a  night  of  holy  calm,  when  the  zephyr  sways  the  young  spring  leaves  and  whispers  among  the  hollow  reeds  its  dreamy  music.  No  sound  was  heard  but  the  last  sob  of  some  weary  wave,  telling  its  story  to  the  smooth  pebbles  of  the  beach,  and  then  all  was  still  as  the  breast  when  the  spirit  has  parted.  ...  I  read  no  more,  although  there  was  more  to  read.  I  was  tired  and  in  some  way  disarmed  by  the  fact  that  I  had  not  been  home  for  years.  The  chain  of  circumstances  that  could  impel  a  man  to  copy  this  gibberish  on  marble  was  unimaginable.  Was  this  a  sign  of  some  change  in  the  social  climate,  the  result  of  some  new  force  of  repression?  Or  was  it  simply  an  indication  of  the  fact  that  man's  love  of  florid  prose  is  irresist-  ible?  'The  sonorities  of  the  writing  had  the  tenacity  of  bad  music,  and  it  was  difficult  to  forget  them.  Had  some  pro-  found  change  in  the  psyche  of  my  peo-  ple  taken  place  during  my  absence?  Was  there  some  breakdown  in  the  nor-  mal  lines  of  communication,  some  inor-  dinate  love  of  the  romantic  past?  I  SPENT  the  next  week  or  ten  days  travelling  in  the  Middle  West.  I  was  waiting  one  afternoon  in  the  Union  Station  in  [REDACTED]  for  a  New  York  train.  The  train  was  late.  The  station  there-proportioned  like  a  cathedral  and  lit  by  a  rose  window  -is  a  gloomy  and  brilliant  example  of  that  genre  of  architecture  that  means  to  ex-  press  the  mystery  and  drama  of  travel  and  separation.  The  colors  of  the  rose  window,  limpid  as  a  kaleidoscope,  dyed  the  marble  walls  and  the  waiting  pas-  sengers.  A  woman  with  a  shopping  bag  stood  in  a  panel  of  lavender,  An  old  man  slept  in  a  pool  of  yellow  light.  Then  I  saw  a  sign  directing  the  way  to  the  men's  room,  and  I  wondered  if  I  might  not  find  there  another  ex-  ample  of  that  curious  literature  I  had  discovered  in  the  first  hours  of  my  re-  turn.  I  went  down  some  stairs  into  a  cavernous  basement,  where  a  shoeshine  " b"man  slept  in  a  chair.  The  walls  again  were  marble.  This  was  a  common  lime-  stone-a  silicate  of  calcium  and  mag-  nesium,  grained  with  some  metalliferous  gray  ore.  My  hunch  had  been  right.  The  stone  was  covered  with  writing,  and  it  had,  ata  glance,  a  striking  fit-  ness,  since  it  served  as  a  reminder  of  the  fact  that  it  was  on  walls  that  the  earliest  writings  and  prophecies  of  man  ap-  peared.  The  penmanship  was  clear  and  symmetrical,  the  work  of  someone  gifted  with  an  orderly  mind  and  a  steady  hand.  Please  tryto  imagine  the  baneful  light,  the  stale  air,  and  the  sounds  of  running  water  in  that  place  as  I  read:  The  great  manor  house  of  Wallowyck  stood  on  a  hill  above  the  smoky  mill  town  of  X-burgh,  its  countless  mullioned  win-  dows  seeming  to  peer  censoriously  into  the  dark  and  narrow  alleys  of  the  slums  that  reached  from  the  park  gates  to  the  smoking  mills  on  the  banks  of  the  river.  It  was  in  the  fringes  of  this  wooded  park  that,  un-  known  to  Mr.  Wallow,  I  spent  the  most  lighthearted  hours  of  my  youth,  roaming  there  with  a  slingshot  and  a  sack  for  trans-  porting  my  geological  specimens.  The  hill  and  its  forbidding  ornament  stood  between  the  school  I  attended  and  the  hovel  where  I  lived  with  my  ailing  mother  and  my  drunken  father.  All  my  friends  took  the  common  path  around  the  hill,  and  it  was  only  I  who  climbed  the  walls  of  Wallow  Park  and  spent  my  afternoons  in  this  for-  bidden  demesne.  The  lawns,  the  great  trees,  the  sound  of  fountains,  and  the  solemn  atmosphere  of  a  dynasty  are  dear  to  me  to  this  day.  The  Wallows  hadno  arms,  of  course,  but  the  sculptors  they  employed  had  improvised     hundreds  of  escutcheons  and  crests  that  seemed  baronial  at  a  distance  but  that,  on  examination,  petered  out  modestly  into  geometrical  forms.  Their  chimneys,  gates,  towers,  and  garden  benches  were  thus  crested.  Another  task  of  the  sculptors  had  been  to  make  representations  of  Mr.  Wal-  low's  only  daughter,  Emily.  There  was  Emily  in  bronze,  Emily  in  marble,  Emily  as  the  Four  Seasons,  the  Four  Winds,  the  Four  Times  of  Day,  and  the  Four  Princi-  pal  Virtues.  Ina  sense,  Emily  was  my  only  companion.  I  walked  there  in  the  autumn,  watching  the  wealth  of  color  fall  from  the  treesto  the  lawns.  I  walked  there  in  the  bitter  snow.  I  watched  there  for  the  first  signs  of  spring,  and  smelled  the  fine  per-  fume  of  wood  smoke  from  the  many  crested  chimneys  of  the  great  house  above  me.  It  was  while  wandering  there  on  a  spring  day  that  I  heard  a  girlish  voice  cry-  ing  for  help.  I  followed  the  voice  to  the  banks  ofa  little  stream,  where  I  saw  Em-  ily.  Her  lovely  feet  were  naked,  and  stuck  toone,  like  some  manacle  of  evil,  was  the  writhing  form  of  a  viper.  I  plucked  the  viper  from  her  foot,  lanced  the  wound  with  my  pocketknife,  and  sucked  the  poison  from  her  bloodstream.  Then  I  took  off  my  humble  shirt,  stitched  together  for  me  by  my  dear  mother  from  some  discarded  blueprint  linen  that  she  had  found,  during  her  daily  foraging,  in  an  architect's  ashcan.  When  the  wound  was  cleansed  and  bound,  I  gathered  Emily  in  my  arms  and  ran  up  the  lawn  towards  the  great  doors  of  Wallowyck,  which  rumbled  open  at  my  ring.  A  butler  stood  there,  pallid  at  the  sight.  &quot;What  have  you  done  to  our  Emily?&quot;  he  cried.  &quot;He  has  done  nothingbut  save  my  life,&quot;  said  Emily.  Then  from  the  dusk  of  the  hall  emerged  the  bearded  and  ruthless  Mr.  Wallow.  &quot;Thank  you  for  saving  the  life  of  my  daughter,&quot;  he  said  gruffly.  Then  he  looked  at  me  more  closely,  and  I  saw  tears  rise  in  his  eyes.  &quot;Someday  you  will  be  rewarded,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That  day  will  come.&quot;  The  ruin  of  my  linen  shirt  obliged  me  to  tell  my  parents  that  evening  about  my  ad-  venture.  My  father  was  drunk,  as  usual.  &quot;You  will  receive  no  reward  from  that  beast!&quot;  he  roared.  &quot;Neither  in  this  world  nor  in  Heaven  nor  in  Hell!&quot;  &quot;Please,  Ernest,&quot;  my  mother  sighed,  and  I  went  to  her  and  held  her  hands,  dry  with  fever.  Drunk  as  he  was,  it  seemed  that  my  father  possessed  the  truth,  for,  in  the  years  that  followed,  no  sign  of  gratitude,  no  courtesy,  no  trifling  remembrance,  no  hint  of  indebtedness  came  to  me  from  the  great  house  on  the  hill.  In  the  stern  winter  of  19-,  the  mills  were  shut  down  by  Mr.  Wallow,  in  a  re-  taliative  gesture  at  my  struggle  to  organ-  ize  a  labor  union.  The  stillness  of  the  mills-those  smokeless  chimneys-was  a  blow  at  the  heart  of  X-burgh.  My  mother  lay  dying.  My  father  sat  in  the  kitchen  drinking  Sterno.  Sickness,  hunger,  cold,  and  disease  dominated  every  hovel.  The  snow  in  the  streets,  unbesmirched  by  the  mill  smoke,  had  an  accusatory  white-  ness.  It  was  on  the  day  before  Christmas  that  I  led  the  union  delegation,  many  of  them  scarcely  able  to  walk,  up  to  the  great  doors  of  Wallowyck  and  rang.  It  was  Emily  who  stood  there  when  the  doors  were  opened.  &quot;You!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;You  who  saved  my  life,  why  are  you  killing  my  father?&quot;  Then  the  doors  rumbled  shut.  I  managed  that  evening  to  gather  a  little  grain,  and  made  some  porridge  of  this  for  my  mother.  I  was  spooning  this  into  her  thin  lips  when  our  door  opened  and  in  stepped  Jeffrey  Ashmead,  Mr.  Wallow's  advocate.  &quot;If  you  have  come,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;to  persecute  me  for  my  demonstration  at  Wallowyck  " b"this  afternoon,  you  have  come  in  vain.  There  is  no  pain  on  earth  greater  than  that  which  I  suffer  now,  as  I  watch  my  mother  die.&quot;  &quot;I  have  come  about  other  business,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Mr.  Wallow  is  [REDACTED];  &quot;Long  live  Mr.  Wallow!&quot;  shouted  my  father  from  the  kitchen.  &quot;Please  come  with  me,&quot;  said  Mr.  Ash-  mead.  \xe2\x80\x9cSNhat  business  can  I  have  with  you,  sir?&quot;  &quot;You  are  the  heir  to  Wallowyck-its  mines,  its  mills,  its  moneys.&quot;  &quot;I  do  not  understand.&quot;  There  was  a  piercing  sob  from  my  mother.  She  seized  my  hands  in  hers  and  said,  &quot;The  truth  of  the  past  is  no  harsher  than  the  truth  of  our  sad  lives!  I  have  wanted  to  shelter  you  all  these  years  from  the  truth,  but  you  are  his  only  son.  As  a  girl,  I  waited  on  table  at  the  great  house,  and  was  taken  advantage  of  on  a  summer's  night.  It  has  contributed  to  your  father's  destruction.&quot;  &quot;I  will  go  with  you,  [REDACTED];  I  said  to  Mr.  Ashmead.  &quot;Miss  Emily  knows  of  this?&quot;  &quot;Miss  Emily,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;has  fled.&quot;  I  returned  that  evening,  and  entered  the  great  doors  of  Wallowyck  as  its  master.  But  there  was  no  Miss  Emily.  Before  the  New  Year  had  come,  I  had  buried  both  of  my  parents,  reopened  the  mills  on  a  profit-  sharing  basis,  and  brought  prosperity  to  X-burgh,  but  I,  living  alone  in  Wallo-  wyck,  knew  a  loneliness  that  I  had  never  tasted  before.  ...  I  was  appalled,  of  course.  I  felt  sick.  The  matter-of-factness  of  my  surround-  ings  made  the  puerility  of  this  tale  nau-  seating.  I  hurried  back  to  the  noble  waiting  room,  with  its  limpidpanels  of  colored  light,  and  sat  down  near  a  rack  of  paperback  books.  Their  lurid  covers  and  their  promise  of  graphic  descriptions  of  sexual  commerce  seemed  to  tie  in  with  what  I  had  just  read.  What  had  happened,  I  supposed,  was  that,  as  por-  nography  moved  into  the  public  domain,  those  marble  walls,  those  immemorial  repositories  of  such  sport,  had  been  forced,  in  self-defense,  to  take  up  the  more  refined  task  of  literature,  I  found  the  idea  revolutionary  and  disconcert-  ing,  and  wondered  if  in  a  year  or  two  I  would  be  able  to  read  the  poetry  of  Sara  Teasdale  in  a  public  toilet,  while  the  King  of  [REDACTED]  honored  some  dirty-  minded  brute.  Then  my  train  came  in,  and  I  was  happy  to  get  out  of  Indian-  apolis  and  leave,  as  I  hoped,  my  discov-  ery  with  the  Middle  West.  I  went  up  to  the  club  car  andhad  a  drink.  We  belted  eastward  over  In-  diana,  scaring  the  cows  and  thechick-  ens,  the  horses  and  the  pigs.  People  waved  at  the  train  as  it  passed-a  little  girl  holding  a  doll  upside  down,  an  old  man  in  a  wheelchair,  a  woman  standing  in  a  kitchen  doorway  with  her  hair  in  pin  curls,  a  young  man  sitting  on  a  freight  truck.  You  could  feel  the  train  leap  forward  in  the  straightaway,  the  whistle  blew,  the  warning  bells  at  the  grade  crossings  went  off  like  a  coronary  thrombosis,  and  the  track  joints  beat  out  a  jazz  bass,  versatile,  exhilarating,  and  fleet,  like  some  brilliant  improvisation  on  the  beating  of  a  heart,  and  the  wind  in  the  brake  boxes  sounded  like  the  last,  hoarse  recordings  poor  Billie  Holiday     ever  made.  I  had  two  more  drinks.  When  I  opened  the  door  of  the  lavatory  in  the  next  sleeping  car  andsaw  that  the  walls  were  covered  with  writing,  it  seemed  to  me  like  a  piece  of  very  bad  news.  I  didn't  want  to  read  any  more-not  then.  Wallowyck  had  been  enough  for  one  day.  I  wanted  only  to  go  back  to  the  club  car  and  have  another  drink  and  assert  my  healthy  indifference  to  the  fancies  of  strangers.  But  the  writing  was  there,  and  it  was  irresistible-it  seemed  to  be  some  part  of  my  destiny-and,  al-  though  I  read  it  with  bitter  unwilling-  ness,  I  read  through  the  first  paragraph.  " b"The  penmanship  was  the  most  commanding  of  all.  Why  does  not  everyone  who  can  afford  it  have  a  geranium  in  his  window?  It  is  very  cheap.  Its  cheapness  is  next  to  noth-  ing  if  you  raise  it  from  seed  or  from  a  slip.  It  is  a  beauty  and  a  companion.  It  sweetens  the  air,  rejoices  the  eye,  links  you  with  na-  ture  a  nd  innocence,  and  is  something  to  love.  An  d  if  it  cannot  love  you  in  return,  it  cannot  hate  you,  it  cannot  utter  a  hateful  thing  even  for  your  neglecting  it,  for  though  it  is  all  beauty,  it  has  no  vanity,  and  such  being  the  ca  se,  and  living  as  it  does  purely  t  o  do  you  good  and  afford  pl  easur  e,  how  will  you  be  able  to  neglect  it?  But,  pray,  if  you  choose  a  geranium  ...  Back  in  the  club  car,  it  was  getting  dark.  I  was  disturbed  by  these  tender  sentiments  and  depressed  by  the  general  gloom  of  the  countryside  at  that  time  of  day.  Was  what  I  had  read  the  expression  of  some  irrepressible  love  of  quaintness  and  innocence?  Whatever  it  was,  I  felt  then  a  manifest  responsibility  to  declare  what  I  had  discovered.  Our  knowledge  of  ourselves  and  of  one  an-  other,  in  a  historical  moment  of  mer-  curial  change,  is  groping.  To  hedge  our  observation,  curiosity,  and  reflection  with  indifference  would  be  sheer  reck-  lessness.  My  three  chance  encounters  proved  that  this  kind  of  literature  was  widespread.  If  these  fancies  were  re-  corded  and  diagnosed,  they  might  throw  a  brilliant  illumination  onto  our  psyche  and  bring  us  closer  to  the  secret  world  of  the  truth.  My  search  had  its  uncon-  ventional  aspects,  but  if  we  are  any  less  tha  n  shrew  d  ,  c  ourageo  us,  and  honest  with  ourselves  we  are  contemptible.  I  had  six  friends  who  worked  for  fo  unda-  tions,  and  I  decided  to  call  their  atten-  tion  to  the  phen  ome  non  of  the  writing  in  public  toilets  I  knew  they  had  fina  nced  poetry,  research  in  zoology,  studies  of  the  history  of  stained  glass  and  of  the  social  significance  of  high  h  eels  ,  and,  at  that  moment,  the  writing  in  pub-  lic  toilets  appeared  to  be  an  avenue  of  truth  that  demanded  exploration.  When  I  got  back  to  New  York,  I  arranged  a  lunch  for  my  friends,  in  a  restau  rant  in  the  Sixties  that  has  a  private  dining  room.  At  the  end  of  the  meal,  I  made  my  speech.  My  best  friend  there  was  the  first  to  answer.  &quot;You've  been  away  too  long,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You're  out  of  touch.  We  don  't  go  for  that  kind  of  thing  over  here.  I  can  only  speak  for  myself,  of  cour  se,  but  I  think  the  ide  a  is  repulsive.&quot;  I  glan  ced  down  and  saw  that  I  was  wearing  a  brocade  double-  breasted  vest  and  pointed  yellow  shoes,  and  I  suppose  I  had  spoken  in  the  flat  and  affected  accent  of  most  expatriates.  His  accusation  that  my  thinking  was  alien,  strange,  and  indecent  seemed  in-  vincible.  I  felt  then,  I  feel  now,  that  it  was  not  the  impropriety  of  my  discovery  but  its  explosiveness  that  d  iscon  -  certed  him  ,  and  th  at  he  had,  in  my  ab-  s  ence,  joined  the  ranks  of  those  new  men  who  feel  that  the  trut  h  is  no  long-  er  usable  in  solving  our  dilemmas.  He  said  goodbye,  and  one  by  one  the  others  left,  all  on  the  same  note-I  had  been  away  too  long;  I  was  out  of  touch  with  decency  and  common  sens  e.  I  RETURNED  to  Europe  a  few  days  later.  The  plane  for  Orly  was  de-  layed,  and  I  killed  some  time  in  the  bar  and  then  looked  around  for  the  men's  room.  The  message  this  time  was  writ-  ten  on  tile.  &quot;Bright  Star!&quot;  I  read,  &quot;would  I  were  stedfast  as  thou  art-  Not  in  lone  splendour  hung  aloft  the  night  ..  .&quot;  That  was  all.  My  flight  was  announced,  and  I  sailed  through  the  eaves  of  heaven  back  to  the  city  of  light. "