 b"IN  Armenia,&quot;  my  father  would  say,  &quot;the  sky  is  a  warm,  bright  blue,  a  blue  that  can  be  seen  nowhere  else  in  the  world.  Look--&quot;  He  pointed.  &quot;Itis  like  the  sky  there,  but  much,  much  bluer.&quot;  I  was  still  just  a  little  girl,  and  obligingly  I  would  squint  and  strain  my  eyes  to  detect  a  glimmer  of  that  Arme-  nian  blue  in  the  prosaic  [REDACTED]  sky  above  us.  We  would  be  on  one  of  our  Sunday-morning  walks  through  the  woods  that,  in  the  thirties,  still  bordered  our  neighborhood,  on  the  crest  of  Wash-  ington  [REDACTED]  above  18  1st  Street,  over-  looking  the  [REDACTED]  on  one  side  and  [REDACTED]  on  the  other.  On  those  walks,  my  father,  holding  my  hand  tightly,  would  guide  and  pull  me  uphill  and  down  along  tunnellike  paths  until  we  reached  a  rock  from  which  we  could  see  the  [REDACTED],  and  there  we  would  sit  while  he  talked,  in  his  native  tongue,  of  his  native  land.  I  say  his  native  land,  though  he  was  born  in  exile,  in  Constan-  tinople,  and  came  to  [REDACTED]  when  he  was  a  boy.  But  in  1920  he  had  spent  six  glorious  months  in  Armenia-in  what  was,  from  May,  1918,  to  December,  1920,  the  Independent  Armenian  Re-  public-and  he  spoke  of  it  always  as  home.  He  found  little  to  admire  in  the  natural  beauties  around  us;  they  were  merely  stage  props,  useful  because  they  could  be  compared  with  a  higher  beauty  to  be  found  only  in  Armenia,  where,  I  was  told,  we  would  be  going  soon-  once  Armenia  was  united  and  free.  My  father  was  not  religious,  but  in  speaking  of  Armenia  he  used  the  word  &quot;paradise&quot;&quot;  often.  There  were  two  paradises.  One  was  a  spot  in  the  heavens  above  us  with  which  the  ancestral  homeland  could  fa-  vorably  be  compared;  the  other,  even  more  remote-I  could,  after  all,  see  the  sky-was  Armenia  it-  self.  The  two  pictures  blended  in  my  imagination.  Paradise  descended  to  earth,  and  Armenia  became  a  hallowed  place  on  the  roof  of  the  world.  There  Mount  Ararat-a  lustrous,  fragrant,  green  gold  at  its  base-reached  up  so  high  into  the  heavenly  blue  that  its  peak  was  al-  ways  covered  by  the  whitest,  purest  snow.  Noah's  ark  had  come  to  rest  upon  that  peak,  and  there  life  had  started  all  over  again-the  animals  had  marched  down  the  mountain,  the  people  had  built  fires  and  danced  around  Lake  Sevan.  The  lake  was  silver,  my  father  said,  and  the  water  colder  even  than  the  water  I  had  drunk  from  the  spring  we  had  once  found  in  the  woods.  'This  mingling  of  Bible  story  and  fact  was  not  confusing  to  me;  it  convinced  me  that  Armenia  couldnot  be  reached  by  ordinary  means,  and  it  justified  my  father's  use  of  su-  perlatives.  Armenia  was  unique  and  extraordinary;  it  was  perfection  realized.  My  father's  singsong  voice,  and  the  smells  and  sounds  of  that  New  York  City  wildwood,  would  make  me  sleepy.  His  voice,  which  seemed,  when  I  was  drow-  sy,  to  originate  in  my  head,  as  if  I  were  talking  inside  myself,  would  go  on  and  on:  &quot;...  He  kissed  me  and  embraced  me  and  called  me  brother;  a  man  like  a  mountain,  like  a  lion-a  true  a  man  of  Armenia.  Someday  ...&quot;  Being  at  that  time  a  man  of  many  moods,  which  abruptly  displaced  each  other,  my  father  would  suddenly  be-  come  silent.  I  wouldawake  and  sit  quietly,  aware  of  his  remoteness  and  made  uncomfortable  by  it.  After  a  while,  I  would  pick  flowers  apart  or  strip  branches  of  their  leaves  while  high-  ly  colored  pictures  of  Armenia  floated  through  my  mind.  Finally,  he  would  rouse  himself  and  announce  that  Mother  probably  had  dinner  ready.  We  would  make  our  way  up  the  slope  and  up  the     rickety,  wooden,  steel-gray  steps  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  (later  rechristened  Cabrini  Boulevard).  We  might,  as  we  ambled  home,  taking  short  cuts  through  lots,  share  a  gayer  mood,  a  mood  that  could  change-be  held  in  abeyance-  whenever  we  were  greeted  by  a  non-  Armenian  from  the  neighborhood.  During  such  moments,  as  if  realizing  that  our  peculiarly  Armenian  selves  must  not  be  displayed  to  outsiders,  I  would  stop  talking  and  look  up  at  my  father.  My  father,  smiling  courteously  and  bowing  slightly  from  the  waist  in  the  European  manner,  would  make  the  proper  responses:  &quot;Very  vell,  tenk  yoo  [the  &quot;00&quot;  as  in  &quot;book&quot;],  Mr.  Vil-sawn,  hah-oo0  ar-re  yoo?!&quot;  At  a  nudge  from  my  father,  I,  too,  would  perform  in  English  with  the  few  useful  sentences  I  had  picked  up.  If,  when  we  entered  the  courtyard  of  our  building,  one  of  our  neighbors  greeted  us,  my  father  would  have  to  pause  to  listen  to  the  familiar  doleful  depression  tales.  My  parents  were  friendly  to  everyone  in  the  build-  ing,  and  responded  to  the  usual  neigh-  borly  requests  with  a  pleased  fuss,  as  if  a  minor  celebrity  were  asking  for  a  cup  of  sugar.  (Invariably,  they  forced  two  on  the  borrower.)  But  they  were  convinced  of  their  moral  superiority-  their  Armenianness:  their  ability  to  work  hard,  make  sacrifices,  and  sur-  vive.  Didn't  my  father,  who  had  his  own  business,  work  six  days  a  week,  twelve  hours  a  day?  Wasn't  he  willing  to  ride  the  subway  for  an  hour  every  morning  and  every  night  so  that  we  could  live  ina  pleasant  neighborhood?  Thus,  as  he  stood  in  the  courtyard,  a  dark,  thin,  stiff-looking  young  man  with  a  powerful  torso,  dressed  as  alwayson  Sunday  in  a  starched  white  shirt,  his  one,  frayed,  carefully  tended  suit,  his  fedora,  and  his  Sunday  spats,  he  would  listen,  with  hat  in  hand,  to  what  seemed  to  him  crude,  and  crudely  expressed,  complaints  (&quot;Christ,  whattaya  suppose&quot;  ta  do?  Them  lousy  bastards.&quot;)  without  once  descending  to  the  complainer's  level  and  confessing  that  he  viewed  the  fu-  ture  with  trepidation,  too.     Y  father  hated  shoptalk.  In  keeping  with  what  he  consid-  ered  a  European  notion  of  propri-  ety-in  Constantinople,  where  he  was  brought  up,  the  Armenian  col-  ony  was  under  French  influence-he  thought  it  vulgar  for  any  man  not  a  professor,  artist,  doctor  (dentists  weren't  included),  or  big  business-  man  (Morgan,  Rockefeller,  Gulben-  kian)  to  discuss  the  means  by  which     " b"fate  had  forced  him  to  earn  food,  cloth-  ing,  and  rent  money.  He  dreamed  of  being  rich;  he  swore  he  would  be  some-  day;  he  hungered  for  mansions  and  chauffeur-driven  cars.  But  this  was  his  556e6974656420537461746573n  dream-his  dream  in  English,  you  might  say-forced  upon  him  by  his  backbreaking  labors  and  his  struggles  with  bill  collectors  and  underpaid  help.  He  considered  his  native  dream,  the  re-  turn  to  paradise,  the  loftier  and  the  truer  one.  He  reserved  his  respect  for  a  group  of  men  who  had  nothing  but  scorn  for  556e6974656420537461746573n  standards  of  success.  These  men,  Armenian  \xc3\xa9migr\xc3\xa9s,  were  his  com-  rades.  Although  they  were,  on  the  average,  twenty  years  older  than  he,  his  social  life  was  centered  in  them.  They  represented  culture,  dedication  to  ideals,  and  courage  in  a  land  that  seemed  to  him  to  lack  a  feeling  for  the  heroic.  My  father  willingly  shared  all  he  had  with  them.  One  or  another-sometimes  two,  three,  or  four-might  stay  with  us  for  days  or  weeks;  one  man  stayed  two  years  and,  according  to  my  mother,  was  responsible  for  the  collapse  of  our  grape-  and-tan  mohair  sofa.  My  father's  old  comrades,  I  can  see  now,  were  fish  out  of  water,  or,  rather,  creatures  out  of  an  element  that  no  longer  existed.  Once,  in  a  mythopoeic  past,  each  of  them  had  been  someone.  Now-like  Armenia,  divided  between  [REDACTED]  and  the  U.S.S.R.-they  had  lost  their  identity;  the  world  could  not  recognize  them  for  what  they  knew  themselves  to  be.  Their  stories  about  their  former  selves-as  university  stu-  dents  in  Petrograd,  Polis  (Constantino-  ple),  Tiflis,  or  Milano,  as  idealistic  terrorists;  as  editors  of  revolutionary  periodicals;  as  leaders  of  the  people;  as  officials  in  the  government  of  the  Arme-  nian  Republic  of  1920  (it  was  less  than  a  year  before  the  [REDACTED]  assumed  power  and  ousted  them  )-all  had  for  me  as  a  child  the  same  air  of  unreality  as  my  father's  tales  of  the  Armenian  para-  dise.  I  believed  them,  but  I  could  not  conceive  of  their  happening  in  the  world  I  saw  aroundme.  They  were  serious  men;  they  read  the  New  York  Times  and  the  Christian  Science  Monitor  (grunting  and  struggling  with  the  Eng-  lish),  and  sight-destroying  Armenian  and  Russian  journals,  and  Turkish  newspapers  from  abroad.  They  could  deliver,  extempore,  long,  inflammatory  speeches;  they  could  lecture  for  hours  (scorning  to  use  notes)  about  the  politi-  cal  and  social  development  of  the  Levant  or  the  origins  of  the  Armenian  people.  They  prided  themselves  on  being  skepti-  cal  and  discriminating  men,  yet  they  unabashedly  reserved  for  all  things  Ar-  menian-music,  literature,  customs--  florid  praise.  They  were  irreligious,  yet  they  wept  for  what  had  become  of  the  Armenian  Church.  They  had  the  Euro-  pean  intellectual's  sense  of  remoteness  from  the  cap-and-lunchbox  class,  but  during  the  thirties  many  of  them  worked  by  necessity  at  what  were,  by  their  standards,  the  most  menial  jobs-ice-  cream  vender,  spotter  (in  a  dry-cleaning  plant),  hauler  (for  an  express  com-  pany).  I  am  sure  that  on  their  jobs  they  were  regarded  as  sullen,  touchy  foreign-  ers  who  refused  to  wear  sensible  work  clothes.  Their  daily  contacts  with  556e6974656420537461746573ns  must  have  been  hell  for  them,  they  were  so  conscious  of  the  unintel-  ligibility  of  their  English.  And  yet  they     insisted  that  it  would  be  foolish  to  pre-  pare  themselves  for  life  in  [REDACTED].  The  Communists'  bloody  experiment,  they  said,  was  bound  to  fail  any  day,  and  with  the  collapse  would  come  the  end  of  the  so-called  Armenian  Soviet  Socialist  Re-  public,  the  union  of  Russian  and  Turkish  Armenia,  and  the  emergence  of  Ar-  menia  as  a  free  nation  among  free  na-  tions  once  more.  ACH  week  for  many  years,  a  group  of  my  father's  friends  took  Sunday  dinner  with  us.  I  remember  no  one  Sunday  in  particular,  for  in  my  mind  all  the  Sundays  seem  to  beone,  and  impres-  sions  from  my  earliest  childhood,  when  Ifirst  sat  at  table,  mingle  with  memories  from  a  later  time.  'The  enamelled  kitch-  en  table,  covered  with  the  crocheted  Sunday  cloth,  would  be  carried  into  the  living  room  and  set  down  near  the  two  windows  that  overlooked-seemed  to  hang  over-a  rocky,  yellow-green  hill  descending  to  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  Ave-  nue.  One  of  the  men-perhaps  the  jour-  nalist  who  wore  pince-nez,  with  his  stiff  white  collar  and  striped  shirt-would  say,  &quot;Comrades,  let  us  drink  to  our  be-  loved  comrade  and  his  bride  who  offer  the  warmth  of  Armenian  hospitality  to  us  in  this  foreign  land.&quot;  My  mother,  who  had  married  at  sixteen  and  was  re-  garded  for  years  as  a  child  bride,  would  murmur  welcomes.  My  father  would  frown  and  shake  his  head,  as  if  he  were  trying  to  shake  off  the  kind  words.  The  men  would  raise  shot  glasses  of  oghie  to  their  lips.  Each  one-the  bald,  jolly  diabetic  who  had  commanded  guerrillas;  the  tempestuous  doctor  who  wrote  na-  tionalistic  poems;  the  handsome  young     " b"son  of  a  revered  Armenian  hero;  the  venerable,  goateed  Armenian  play-  wright-would  take  his  turn  at  com-  posing  a  toast.  &quot;'To  the  Armenian  spir-  it.&quot;  &quot;Let  the  massacrists  beware.&quot;  &quot;Eh-toward  Armenia.  Let  us  see  Ararat  and  Sevan  Lake  soon.&quot;  Or,  turning  toward  me,  &quot;To  our  budding  generation.  'The  Armenian  spirit  shines  from  our  sweet  girl's  eyes.&quot;  My  father  would  pinch  my  cheek  as  we  took  our  places  around  the  table.  My  mother  would  smile,  sending  me  a  shy  blessing.  I  would  sit  up  straight,  as  be-  fitted  a  child  of  Armenia,  and  would  look  from  face  to  face,  entranced.  I  knew  the  atmosphere  could  change  at  any  minute,  and  this  gave  me  a  pleasant  sense  of  drama  and  anticipation.  If  one  of  the  men-the  journalist  who  wore  pince-nez,  for  instance-were  em-  barked,  teacherlike,  on  an  instructive  monologue,  his  audience  would  sit  so-  berly,  thumbs  under  chins,  forefingers  pressing  in  cheeks,  lips  pursed,  in  the  classic  attitude  of  meditative  attention.  But  if  the  matter  were  more  practical-  a  maneuver  to  be  used  at  the  next  meet-  ing  of  their  patriotic  society,  say-they  all  would  descend  from  the  heights  of  abstract  thought  and  show  a  sort  of  dis-  ciplined  liveliness,  still  deferring  to  each  other  but  prepared  to  interrupt.  And  when,  with  their  belliesfull  and  their  cups  of  Turkish  coffee  drained,  they  were  singing  one  of  the  more  boisterous  revolutionary  songs,  they  would  seem  to  be  comrade  soldiers-even  the  ones  who  had  conducted  the  war  for  Armenian  independence  from  newspaper  offices.  When  they  sang  of  daring  sorties  and  blood  pledges  fulfilled,  they  would  un-  button  their  jackets  and  vests  and  drive  with  flashing  warriors'  eyes  to  a  deafen-  ing  finish  and  a  round  of  applause.  After  my  mother  had  cleared  away  and  washed  up,  we  all  would  goon  a  tour  of  the  neighborhood.  And  then,  with  their  gloved  hands  clasped  behind  them,  the  men  would  become  observers  in  the  museum  of  556e6974656420537461746573n  life,  noting  all  the  exhibits-the  new  school,  the  A.  &amp;  P.,  fathers  playing  catch  with  sons-with  the  air  of  visitors  from  anoth-  er,  higher  culture  studying  a  society  that  might  amount  to  something  if  one  had  Jovelike  powers  to  refashion  its  natives.  &quot;They  do  not  have  a  higher  cause  to  live  for,&quot;  one  of  my  father's  friends  would  say,  displeased  by  the  sight  of  grown  men  playing  games.  &quot;In  Amer-  ica,&quot;  another  would  say,  stopping  the  procession,  &quot;a  school  for  infants  must  look  like  a  government  building.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  They  do  not  understand  that  the  teacher  is  important.  Is  he  a  serious  man:?  Is  he  a  patriot?&quot;  &quot;Eh,  Vahe,  observe  the  foods  in  this  window,  row  on  row.  With  half  of  this,  what  we  couldn't  have  done.&quot;  They  could  not  look  at  anything  for  long  with  detachment;  as  the  afternoon  wore  on,  our  surroundings  would  lose  their  556e6974656420537461746573nness;  the  exhibits  would  merge  with  the  landscape  of  memory.  A  large,  sloping  lot  on  187th  Street,  with  its  wild  flowers  and  two  or  three   thick  trees,  reminded  Arsen,  one  of  the  men,  of  a  field  he  had  traversed  daily  during  his  boyhood  in  the  Caucasus;  we  called  it  &quot;Arsen's  field.&quot;  The  statuary  in  the  garden  of  the  mansion  on  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  opposite  St.  Eliz-  abeth's  Hospital,  reminded  another  of  4974616c79  and  his  student  days,  which  in  turn  reminded  him  of  his  father,  an  ecclesi-  astic,  who  had  wanted  him  to  become  an  architect-a  builder  of  churches.  We  would  peer  into  that  garden  with  proprietary  interest.  The  Castle,  a  man-  sion  on43616e616461  [REDACTED],  with  its  bal-  ustraded  walk  overlooking  the  [REDACTED]  River,  its  tended  acres,  its  stone  wall,  and  its  iron  gates,  evoked  a  host  of  remi-  niscences-the  purplish-brown  stone  re-  minded  one  of  the  men  of  a  Georgian  prison  from  which  he  had  bribed  his  way  out;  the  grounds  reminded  another  of  the  estate  of  an  Armenian  mogul  in  Constantinople;  the  view  reminded  my  father  of  the  wonderfully  situated  Turkish  caf\xc3\xa9s  (&quot;Agh,  to  sit  there  once  more.  Those  dogs!&quot;).  The  cozy  feeling  that  we  were  some-  how  lords  of  the  land  we  surveyed  grew  strongest  in  me  when  we  made  our  way  down  the  wooded  slopes  over  which  my  father  and  I  had  wandered  earlier  that  day.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  one  of  the  men-  generally  my  dauntless  father-would  yell,  if  the  rest  seemed  timid  about  fol-  lowing  him  over  a  rough  spot.  &quot;When  I  was  a  boy,  I  explored  steeper  hills  than  this.&quot;  And  we  would  follow  him  fear-  lessly,  as  if  his  boyhood  daring  could  be  collectivized  and  made  to  serve  us  all.  Away  from  home,  we  seemed  most  at  home  among  that  sheltering  foliage,  be-  neath  a  dying  sun's  rays,  which,  with  the  help  of  my  mind's  eye,  now  turn  a  lovely  pink-most  helpful  in  evoking  the  mem-  ory  ofa  mood  evoked  by  memories.  I  KNEW  these  men  against  other  set-  tings.  They  were  bachelors,  most  of  them,  who  slept  in  furnished  rooms  in  the  garish,  crowded  flatland  of  Wash-  ington  [REDACTED],  below  us  and  to  the  east,  between  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  Many  Sunday  nights,  on  our  way  home  from  an  Armenian  hentes  (a  get-together  with  speeches,  recitations,  plays,  folk  dances,  and  food)  held  at  a  musty  midtown  hall,  my  parents  and  I  would,  upon  emerging  from  the  sub-  way,  go  a  few  blocks  out  of  our  way  to  walk  home  one  of  my  father's  friends.  We  would  stand  in  front  of  the  apart-  ment  building,  next  to  the  black  iron  railing  and  the  garbage  cans,  a  few  feet  below  the  grimy  fanlight  bearing  the  legend  &quot;Buckingham  Manor&quot;  or  &quot;Nor-  mandy  Terrace,&quot;  while  my  father  and  his  friend  analyzed  again  the  speeches  " b"they  had  heard  that  evening.  Finally,  my  mother  would  whisper  that  I  was  tired.  &quot;Yes,  yes,  you  must  go,&quot;  my  father's  friend  would  say.  &quot;I'll  see  you  next  Sunday.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  Next  Sunday,&quot;  my  father  would  say.  &quot;We'll  wait  for  you.  T'suwh.  Goodbye.&quot;  Like  most  children  who  are  relent-  lessly  exposed  to  the  talk  of  adults,  I  was  unduly  sensitive  and  sentimental.  I  hated  to  say  goodbye  to  anyone.  After  one  of  those  midnight  farewells,  I  would  be  left  with  a  depressing  vision  of  my  father's  comrade  going  up  reluctantly  to  his  cu-  bicle  in  the  apartment  of  a  foreigner.  I  noticed  and  thought  about  and  was  moved  by  the  most  ordinary  scenes.  Sometimes,  as  I  watched  one  of  my  father's  friends  buying  a  hot  dog  at  the  [REDACTED]  Nedick's,  I  would  be  over-  come  by  a  surge  of  feeling  that  I  can  only  describe  as  a  sort  of  frantic  sadness.  I  would  want  to  call  out  to  the  heedless  vender  that  the  man  at  whom  he  was  thrusting  that  hot  dog  was  not  just  a-  he  was  ..  .  But  I  was  at  a  complete  loss  in  English.  Even  in  Armenian  I  couldn't  express  what  I  felt-how  lonely  and  vulnerable  my  father's  friends  seemed  in  the  harsh  lights  and  darknesses  of  that  neighborhood.  I  remember  now,  after  one  sad  mid-  night  leave-taking,  being  borne,  slung  against  my  father's  shoulder,  up  181st  Street  toward  our  apartment  above  the  moonlit  forests  and  park.  My  fa-  ther's  voice,  blazing  with  indignation,  conquered  the  silver-cold  stillness  and  Armenianized  it;  stimulated  by  the  speeches  he  had  heard,  he  was  inveigh-  ing  against  the  world  in  general.  His  strong,  belligerent  tones,  the  feel  of  his  wide  shoulder  and  warm  neck  comforted  me.  My  mind  came  to  rest  against  a  fa-  miliar  phrase-'&quot;a  free  and  independent  Armenia&quot;-and  I  fell  asleep,  ensconced  in  my  Armenian  world.  I  had  wonder-  ful  dreams,  about  wild,  windy  gallops  down  mountainsides,  about  battles  against  ferocious  Turks  with  broken  teeth  and  filthy  beards.  I  was  glad  I  was  what  I  was.  Even  the  melancholy  mo-  ments  left  in  their  wake  a  feeling  of  su-  periority  to  the  foreigners  I  saw  walk-  ing,  drab  and  uninspired,  through  the  streets.  Yet,  one  morning  soon  after-  ward,  as  I  followed  my  mother  from  kitchen  to  parlor  and  bedroom  and  back  to  kitchen  again,  I  must  have  stopped  and  listened  to  the  voices  of  children  playing  under  our  windows.  And,  an-  other  morning,  I  must  have  run  out  to  join  them.  &quot;She  is  playing  so  nicely  with  the  neighbors'  children-if  you  could  only  see  it  once,&quot;  my  mother  said  one  day  to my  father,  and  to  one  of  his  friends-  the  man  with  a  sagging  face  and  rheumy  eyes  who  stayed  with  us  for  two  years.  I  was  sitting  next  to  my  father  on  the  grape-and-tan  sofa.  &quot;Every  day  now,  they  call  from  the  courtyard,  'Saw-nah,  Saw-nah,  come  let  us  play.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Let  her  play  in  the  healthy  air,&quot;  my  father  said,  reaching  over  to  pinch  me.  &quot;We  need  a  healthy  generation.&quot;  &quot;She  has  an  Armenian  heart,&quot;  his  friend  said.  &quot;Let  them  all  see  what  an  Armenian  is.  Let  them  see.&quot;  They  looked  at  each  other  and  nod-  ded  and  smiled  as  if  a  satisfactory  agree-  ment  had  been  reached  among  them,  and  then  they  smiled  at  me,  and  my  father  picked  me  up  and  whirled  me  around,  and  I  touched  the  ceiling  with  my  fingers.  They  were  dazzled  by  the  suc-  cess  of  my  sorties  into  this  strange  Amer-  ica.  &quot;Ays  darorimag  Amerikan&quot;  (&quot;This  strange  [REDACTED]&quot;),  they  would  say,  looking  heavenward  for  comfort.  They  would  listen  as  I  bragged  about  the  size  of  the  trees  I  had  climbed,  the  dar-  ing  games  I  had  invented,  the  ready  courage  I  had  shown  in  responding  to  the  challenge  of  a  larger,  bossier  child.  Sometimes,  assuming  a  more  worldly  manner,  I  would  bestow  upon  them  bits  of  information-about  Shirley  Temple  (&quot;They  say  she  has  a  solid-gold  doll  house&quot;),  ice-cream  flavors,  varieties  of  penny  candy,  comic-strip  characters,  Eddie  Cantor;  I  would  sing  snatches  of  songs  (&quot;The  music  goes  round  and  round  .  .  .&quot;);  and  they  would  laugh  and  nudge  each  other  and  jump  up  to squeeze  me.  &quot;Those  foreign  children  have  to  keep  awake  to  keep  up  with  her,&quot;  my  father  would  say.  They  remained  congratulatory  in  their  attitude  until  the  evening  I  turned  on  them  and  demanded  to  know,  in  Armenian  riddled  with  English  nouns,  why  we  couldn't  go  to  Armenia,  when  there  were  such  things  as  boats  and  trains  and  train  tickets.  They  could  not  have  looked  more  dumfounded  if  my  dark-brown  eyes  had  turned  bright  blue.  The  sudden  silence  had  the  force  of  a  rebuke,  and  I  repeated  my  question  resentfully.  But  how  could  they  answer  me  truthfully  without  exposing  their  exile's  dream  as  a  delusion?  How  could  they  break  faith  with  the  credo  of  the  dispossessed  (We  will  go  back;  the  conscience  of  mankind  will  demand  justice)  and  not  break  the  spell  they  had  cast  to  ward  off  assimilation?  (A  sociology  major  informed  me  once  that  the  Ar-  menians  are  a  sociological  phenomenon;  they  ought  to  have  disappeared  with  the  Babylonians.)  They  rallied,  of  course;  they  would  not  confess  their  helpless-  ness,  But  I  refused  to  be  affected  by  their  bold  declarations  that  my  impa-  tience,  my  lack  of  faith  (in  other  words,  my  new  556e6974656420537461746573n  manner)  were  un-  worthy  of  a  child  of  Armenia.  I  per-  sisted  in  my  assertive  questioning,  night  after  night.  I  got  restless  when  my  fa-  ther's  comrades  took  turns  in  trying  to  appease  me;  their  evasive,  poetic  answers  grated  on  my  ears.  Like  one  of  those  lusty  infants,  swathed  in  the  Stars  and  Stripes,  that  represent  Young  [REDACTED]  " b"in  nineteenth-century  cartoons,  I  was  booming  and  roaring  and  insisting  on  a  real  answer.  I  wanted  to  be  assured  that  we  were  packing  and  would  be  leaving  at  such  and  such  a  time-after  Christ-  mas,  for  instance,  or  when  it  got  hot  again.  I  countered  oratorical  references  to  &quot;barbarism&quot;  and  &quot;tyranny&quot;  with  the  reminder  that  the  Armenian  soldiers-  those  bravest  of  the  brave-could  pro-  tect  us  when  we  got  there.  Nor  was  my  curiosity  lulled  when,  after  my  father  acquired  an  old  Chevrolet,  we  began  taking  Sunday  trips  through  the  en-  virons  of  New  York.  Our  new  mobility  only  strengthened  my  belief  that  Arme-  nia  was  reachable.  IT  may  have  been  through  despera-  tion  (&quot;[REDACTED]  is  closing  in;  al-  ready  my  girl  gives  me  back  big  an-  swers&quot;  )  that  my  father  announced  one  afternoon,  as  he  and  Mother  and  I  were  rocking  along  in  our  car,  that  we  were  on  our  way  to  Armenia.  He  made  his  announcement  casually,  as  if  he  had  just  read  a  road  sign.  He  said  something  like,  &quot;Today  we  are  going  to  Armenia,&quot;  and  as  I  try  to  relive  that  moment,  which  should  be  full  of  joy  or  indigna-  tion,  I  find  only  silence  and,  motionless  in  that  silence,  a  silent,  careful  child.  I  try  to  make  excuses  to  myself  for  my  lack  of  spirit:  I  was  carsick,  asusual;I  loved  my  father  and  would  not  fling  his  gift  back  into  his  face;  I  was  taken  in  but  stunned;  or  perhaps  I  was  too  preco-  cious,  still  too  hopefully  Armenian  and  thus  too  careful  to  risk  offending  fate  by  any  outburst-joyous  or  denunciatory.  I  suppose  I  confirmed  the  announce,  ment  (&quot;'To  Armenia?&quot;  &quot;Yes&quot;),  then  fell  asleep.  I  remember  coming  toas  our  car  was  bumping  over  a  narrow  dirt  road  lined  with  gigantic  trees.  A  man  jumped  on  the  running  board  and  greet-  ed  my  father  by  name.  Dust  and  noise  poured  into  the  car,  and  my  mother  reached  down  and  held  a  handkerchief  over  my  nose.  The  man  jumped  away  from  the  car,  and  suddenly  the  darkness  of  the  trees  fell  away  and  there  spun  into  view-like  a  landscape  seen  from  one  of  those  revolving  airplanes  at  an  amusement  park-a  fluid  green  field  alive  with  colored  movement.  At  first  dizzy  glimpse,  it  seemed  somehow  boundless  yet  canopiedby  a  translucent,  lacy  covering.  When  we  had  got  out  of  the  car,  my  father,  giving  me  a  slight  push  toward  the  field,  which  proved  to  be  stable  after  all,  said,  &quot;Ahao-kezee  Hatastan.&quot;  for  you.&quot;)  Around  wooden  tables,  set  up  in  the  warm,  dappled  shade,  men  and  women  were  gesturing  to  each  other  and  grab-  bing  the  arms  of  passersby  with  the  joy-  ful  confidence  of  clan  members.  Trou-  sered  limbs,  comfortingly  paternal,  and  soft,  cr\xc3\xa9pe-encased  posteriors  hurried  past  me  with  holiday  urgency,  and  I  let  myself  be  jostled  by  them;  I  was  ex-  hilarated  by  the  closeness.  On  a  large  table,  a  limitless  quantity  of  food  was  cozily  displayed  on  kitchen  plates,  and  men  and  women  were  reaching  out  and  taking  what  they  wanted  and,  with  fa-  miliar  gestures,  offering  each  other  sam-  ples.  'The  sounds  of  the  Armenian  lan-  guage  mingled  with  the  reedy,  clanging,  titillating  sounds  of  music  and  the  smell  of  meat  being  turned  over  a  fire  and  the  whirl  of  movement  and  the  rhythmic  clapping  of  hands.  I  forgot  about  Mount  Ararat  and  Lake  Sevan.  I  asked  no  questions.  It  was  enough  for  me  that  sometime  dur-  ing  the  waning  afternoon  I  found  a  stream,  at  the  bottom  of  a  slope  hidden  by  bushes,  and  sat  at  its  edge  with  a  nameless,  ingratiating  little  boy,  and  watched  the  swarms  of  minnows  and  dispersed  them  with  stones.  At  dusk,  I  lav  in  someone's  lap  and  listened  to  the  muted  sounds  of  group  singing.  I  REMEMBER  waking  up  in  the  front  seat  of  the  car  and  scrambling  to  my  feet  with  a  sense  of  grievance.  &quot;Where  are  we  going?  Why  aren't  we  staying  in  Armenia\xc2\xae&quot;  I  screamed,  and  kicked  at  my  mother's  legs.  My  grand-  mother  and  three  aunts,  who  were  in  the  back,  straightened  up  with  cries  of  &quot;Quiet.&quot;  &quot;Slowly.&quot;  &quot;Comfort.&quot;  Arms  reached  out  for  me  and  pulled  me,  shrieking  with  outrage,  to  the  back  of  the  car.  My  father,  mixing  solace  and  admonition,  told  me  that  if  I  behaved  myself  we  would  pack  and  go  to  Ar-  menia  for  good.  With  tears  streaming  down  my  face,  I  gained  a  slippery  foot-  hold  on  my  grandmother's  lap,  and  stared  through  the  back  window  at  the  highway,  which  kept  emerging  for  one  lit-up  instant  from  the  bottom  of  the  car  and  hurtling  backward  into  blackness.  Soon  after  that  journey,  I  started  to  attend  morning  kindergarten  classes:  I  remember  telling  my  teacher,  Miss  Burtsell,  about  our  &quot;new&quot;  car.  In  the  years  that  followed,  I  went  to  many  Armenian  picnics,  but  I  knew,  of  course,  that  we  were--as  we  had  been  that  Sunday-in  a  rented  grove. "