 b"RoMEO  CrEAM  isn't  on  the  market  R  now.  Somebody  mentioned  it  at  a  party  the  other  day,  and  I  was  the  only  one  there  who  remembered  that  it  was  a  hair  lotion  for  men.  When  I  was  fourteecn-the  year  I  decided  to  become  an  actor-my  hair  was  long  and  I  used  a  great  deal  of  Romeo  Cream.  It  was  a  green,  jellylike  sub-  stance  that  came  in  a  long,  thin  bottle.  You  shook  it  into  your  cupped  hand  and  applied  it  with  a  quick  rearward  stroke.  Speed  was  essential;  the  stuff  set  fast,  leaving  your  hair  as  glossy  as  porcelain  and  equally  res'stant  to  the  effects  of  wind  and  rain.  Its  only  fault  was  that  it  cracked  if  your  head  brushed  anything  solid,  and  then  the  hair  beneath  the  crack  would  rise  through  it  like  a  weed  springing  from  a  cement  court.  Twenty  years  have  passed,  and  though  I  remember  everything  about  Romeo  Cream-the  green-and-yellow  label,  even  the  faint  smell  of  lime-it  is  more  difficult  to  recall  what  made  me  want  to  act.  Maybe  it  was  just  the  need  for  a  fresh  start;  I  was  depressed  that  year  about  the  way  life  was  shaping  up.  The  trouble  centered  about  school-day,  co-  educational,  half  a  mile  from  our  house  in  Riverdale.  My  problems  were  not  academic;  I  was  having  what  a  report  to  my  parents  described  as  &quot;difficulty  in  the  achievement  of  sat-  isfactory  adolescent  so-  cial  adjustments.&quot;  There  were  a  num-  ber  of  conflicting  theo-  ries  about  why  I  didn't  adjust  to  adolescence,  but  no  one  doubted  that  my  appearance  was  lim-  iting  me  socially.  It  wasn't  only  the  Romeo  Cream;  I  weighed  a  hundred  and  seventy-five  pounds,  and  I  was  not  tall  for  my  age.  Jay  Ingle-  hardt,  a  boy  so  lithe  it  sickened  me  to  look  at  him,  called  me  &quot;Tub  Butter&quot;  one  day  at  the  beginning  of  the  school  year,  and  it  caught  on.  By  late  fall,  the  nickname,  the  locker-room  jokes  about  my  bulk,  and  the  humiliation  of  being  scorned  even  by  girls  like  Janie  Campbell,  who  had  acne  and  buck-  teeth,  drove  me  into  a  defiant  pose.  I  had  seen  &quot;The  Man  Who  Came  to  Dinner&quot;  the  previous  winter.  Model-  ling  myself  on  the  character  of  Sheridan  Whiteside,  I  began  responding  to  all  gibes  with  elaborate  and,  wherever  pos-  sible,  barbed  retorts,  which  did  little  to  enlarge  my  popularity.  But  we  were  reading  plays  in  English  class  that  year,  under  Miss  Garnett,  and  it  was  clear     that  she,  at  least,  thought  well  of  me,  probably  because  my  voice  had  already  deepened,  and  did  not  crack  during  moments  of  stress.  I  read  several  lead-  ing  roles-Mark  Antony,  Romeo,  and  then  Duke  Mantee  in  &quot;The  Petrified  Forest.&quot;  Miss  Garnett,  who  had  seen  the  [REDACTED]  production,  told  the  class  that  my  performance  revealed  aspects  of  character  that  Humphrey  Bogart  had  missed.  At  that  moment,  it  occurred  to  me  that  I  might  turn  pro.  Soon  I  had  persuaded  myself  that  while  the  idea  was  daring,  it  was  not  absurd,  and  I  decided  to  start  with  radio.  My  appear-  ance  would  not  count  against  me  there,  and  all  the  major  networks  had  offices  in  New  York.  I  could  launch  my  career  in  secret.  [  wrote  careful  letters  to  C.B.S.  and  N.B.C.  I  said  simply  that  I  wished  to  become  an  actor,  that  I  was  not  with-  out  experience  (why  not  encourage  them  a  little?  ),  and  that  I  was  pre-  pared  to  accept  small  parts  at  first.  I  did  not  mention  my  age.  N.B.C.  re-  sponded  ten  days  later  with  a  form  let-  ter  noting  that  my  inquiry  had  been  forwarded  to  the  casting  department.  C.B.S.  never  replied  at  all.  In  two  weeks,  N.B.C.  sent  a  mimeographed  sheet  explaining  that  it  was  always  eager  to  uncover  fresh  talent,  and  maintained,  therefore,  a  program  of  general  auditions  under  the  supervision  of  staff  directors.  An  hour  and  a  date-four  in  the  afternoon,  on  a  Friday  three  weeks  off-when  I  was  to  present  myself  to  Mr.  Coleman  Bart-  lett  in  Studio  8-A,  had  been  typed  in.  Audition  material  should  not  ex-  ceed  ten  minutes  in  length,  the  letter  said.  It  was  usual  to  offer  three  selec-  tions  that  would  indicate  the  artist's  vocal  and  dramatic  range.  I  was  struck  by  Coleman  Bartlett's  name.  He  directed  &quot;Dream  of  Life&quot;-  a  midday  serial  to  which  I  listened  whenever  illness  kept  me  home  from  school-and  I  had  also  heard  him  cred-  ited  after  some  important  evening  pro-  grams.  He  was  famous.  Gratifying  vi-  sions  rose  before  me:  my  parents  and  my  brother,  Bobby,  gathered  about  the  radio  as  I  made  my  d\xc3\xa9but  on  &quot;Dream  of  Life;&quot;  Jay  Inglehardt  and  Whitey  Brenner  (Jay's  toady)  grovelling  be-  fore  me,  pleading  for  forgiveness  and  an  account  of  my  affairs  with  actresses;  Betty  Roth,  the  prettiest  girl  at  school,  gaping  as  I  entered  a  dance  with  one" b" of  them,  adazzling  beauty  in  a  low-cut  gown.  ...  Soon  I  concentrated  on  more  practical  matters.  The  audition  hour  was  convenient.  We  were  dis-  missed  from  school  at  three-fifteen  on  Fridays;  I  could  hurry  down  the  hill  to  the  Van  Cortlandt  Park  subway  sta-  tion,  take  an  express  to  Seventy-second  Street  and  a  local  to  Fiftieth,  walk  east  the  two  blocks  to  N.B.C.,  and  arrive  by  four.  Material  was  a  problem,  but  there  were  four  shelves  of  plays  in  the  family  library,  and  I  set  to  work  that  night.  N  three  days,  I  reduced  the  field  to  &quot;Waiting  for  Lefty,&quot;  &quot;They  Knew  What  They  Wanted,&quot;  and  &quot;Our  Town.&quot;  Confident  that  I  had  chosen  wisely  (they  were  all  celebrated  plays,  and  my  scenes  encompassed  a  wide  vocal  and  dramatic  range),  I  plunged  into  rehearsal-an  hour  in  the  morning  before  school,  another  in  the  evening,  longer  sessions  on  the  week-  ends.  Privacy  was  easily  come  by-  Bobby  and  I  had  separate  bedrooms,  and  my  parents  slept  at  the  other  side  of  the  house-but  late  one  night  I  gave  myself  away  experimenting  with  an  Italian  accent  for  &quot;They  Knew  What  They  Wanted.&quot;  My  edition  of  the  play  only  hinted  at  dialect,  and  lines  like  &quot;Da  night  you  marry  with  me!&quot;  were  difficult  to  assess.  I  tried  putting  an  &quot;uh&quot;  on  the  ends  of  words,  and  the  device  gotout  of  hand.  &quot;Da  night-uh  you  marry-uh  with-uh  me-uh!&quot;  was  obvi-  ously  wrong.  Before  the  mirror  in  my  room,  I  went  over  the  line  again  and  again,  varying  the  &quot;uh&quot;s,  and  soon,  forgetting  where  I  was,  I  gave  it  full  dramatic  fire.  My  brother's  room  was  next  to  mine,  and  I  woke  him.  He  lay  for  several  minutes,  no  doubt  quivering  (Bobby  was  twelve,  but  he  had  always  been  nervous  in  the  dark),  and  then  pulled  himself  together,  persuaded  that  the  house  had  not  been  invaded  by  a  stuttering  Neapolitan  burglar  but  still  puzzled  by  the  cries  emanating  from  my  room.  In  the  hall,  he  met  my  father  coming  up  the  stairs.  T  hey  listened  brief-  ly  outside  my  door,  and  then  my  father  knocked  and  they  came  right  in.  I  whirled  about,  and  stared  at  them.  My  father  was  ashy  man,  which  made  him  not  only  undemonstrative  but  slow  to  speak,  He  took  a  long  breath  and  let  it  out  slowly,  and  I  knew  he  was  wondering  what  to  say.  Bobby  said  shakily,  &quot;What  were  you  yelling  about?  Are  you  crazy  or  some-  thing?&quot;  &quot;Shut  up,&quot;  I  wasn't  yelling.&quot;  &quot;He  was  yelling  about  getting  mar-  " b"ried,&quot;  Bobby  said  to  my  father.  &quot;Over  and  over  again,  the  same  thing!&quot;  &quot;Whom  do  you  have  in  mind?&quot;  my  father  asked,  picking  his  words  care-  fully,  &quot;Is  she  an  Italian  girl?&quot;  I  could  think  of  no  way  to  avoid  the  truth.  &quot;It  happens  that  I  was  rehears-  ing  for  this  audition  I'm  going  to  have,&quot;  I  said  with  dignity.  &quot;I'm  going  to  be  an  actor.&quot;  &quot;You?&quot;  Bobby  said.  &quot;Oh  boy,  Cary  Grant!&quot;  He  collapsed,  hooting,  on  the  bed.  My  father  sent  him  out  and  listened  quietly  while  I  told  him  about  the  cor-  respondence  with  N.B.C.  When  I  fin-  ished,  he  looked  at  me  for  a  moment  and  then  said  only,  &quot;Well,  this  is  quite  a  surprise.&quot;  I  caught  sight  of  myself  in  the  mirror  above  my  dresser-the  round  face  with  its  extra  chins,  the  pajamas  bulging  over  the  rolls  of  flesh-and  I  guessed  what  was  in  my  father's  mind.  He  was  think-  ing  that  I  didn't  look  much  like  Jackie  Cooper  or  Freddie  Bartholomew.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  I  said  angrily,  &quot;it's  all  ar-  ranged.  Don't  try  to  stop  me.  Please,  just  leave  me  alone.&quot;  &quot;Let's  talk  about  it  in  the  morning,&quot;  my  father  said  as  he  went  out.  &quot;Don't  rehearse  any  more  tonight.&quot;  At  breakfast,  my  mother  and  I  went  over  the  matter.  I  made  it  clear  that  I  would  brood  for  the  rest  of  my  life  if  my  talents  were  stifled  now,  and  at  last,  wearily,  she  said  to  go  ahead.  I  ROSE  early  on  the  morning  of  the  audition.  I  wore  my  blue  suit  (it  was  a  year  old  and  terribly  tight  about  the  middle,  but  I  was  conditioned  to  blue  suits  for  special  occasions),  and  ap-  plied  Romeo  Cream  with  particular  care,  creating  an  effect  that  resembled  a  bronze  helmet.  The  bottle  was  in  my  briefcase  when  I  left  for  school,  along  with  my  scripts  and  carbon  copies  of  them.  I  felt  prepared.  The  last  class  of  the  day  was  dismissed  early.  Hurrying  through  the  halls,  nice-  ly  ahead  of  schedule,  I  passed  Jay  Ingle-  hardt  chatting  with  some  girls;  I  could  not  make  out  what  he  said  to  them  asI  passed,  but  feminine  laughter  rip-  pled  behind  my  back.  For  once,  it  did  not  dampen  my  spirits.  Walking  down  to  the  subway,  I  entertained  myself  with  a  vision  of  Jay  as  an  emaciated  beg-  gar,  trampled-tin  cup  and  all-by  members  of  my  fan  club  rushing  to  greet  me  at  a  theatre  door.  At  a  quarter  to  four,  I  stepped  from  the  elevator  onto  the  eighth  floor  of  the  R.C.A.  Building  at  Rockefeller  [REDACTED].  An  arrow  pointed  to  Studio  8-A,  and  I " b"strode  toward  it  down  a  long  corridor  and  past  a  line  of  women  waiting  pa-  tiently  behind  a  velvet  rope.  A  uni-  formed  page  halted  me  at  the  head  of  the  line,  but  when  I  showed  him  my  mimeographed  letter  he  waved  me  on.  One  of  the  women  protested,  and  his  reply:  &quot;He's  one  of  the  actors,  lady,&quot;  still  rang  in  my  ears  as  I  rounded  a  corner  and  came  upon  the  wide  double  doors  of  8-A.  Another  page,  a  girlthis  time,  sat  at  a  desk  before  them.  There  were  about  twenty  folding  chairs  along  the  wall  on  either  side,  half  of  them  oc-  cupied.  T  wo  of  the  women  looked  as  if  they  might  be  twenty-five  or  so;  every-  one  else  was  middle-aged  or  older.  I  hesitated,  wondering  if  there  would  be  trouble  when  the  girl  saw  how  young  I  was,  and  then  braced  myself,  prepared  to  swear  that  I  was  eighteen  at  least,  but  when  I  gave  her  my  letter  she  only  thanked  me  and  pointed  to  a  chair.  I  sat  down  and  looked  at  theothers  who  were  waiting.  'The  narrow  corri-  dor  did  not  make  for  sociability;  one  man's  lips  moved  as  he  read  a  script,  a  stout  woman  was  engrossed  in  the  Sat-  urday  Evening  Post,  the  others  were  reading  newspapers  or  just  staring  at  the  floor.  I  got  my  scripts  out  and  looked  them  over,  but  they  seemed  alarmingly  unfamiliar,  and  I  put  them  away  again.  A  gaunt  old  man  on  the  chair  beside  me  sighed  and  spoke  to  the  girl  at  the  desk.  &quot;Peggy,  my  pet,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;be  good  enough  to  remind  Mr.  Bartlett  that  I  am  still  here.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  interrupt  him  again,  Mr.  Truesdale,&quot;  the  girl  said.  &quot;Really,  there's  just  no  point  in  your  waiting.&quot;  &quot;I  shall,  however,  wait,&quot;  the  old  man  said.  &quot;Green  with  melancholy,  like  pa-  tience  on  a  monument,  smiling  at  grief.&quot;  The  declaration  startled  me,  but  I  was  impressed  by  his  voice;  each  word  rolled  richly  from  his  lips.  A  moment  later,  he  offered  me  a  cigarette  and  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;Wise  lad,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Eschew  all  vices.  My  own  decrepitude  I  attribute  not  to  age  but  to  nicotine  and  the  grape.&quot;  The  woman  with  the  Satur-  day  Evening  Post  snickered  loudly.  I  saw  that  everyone  else  was  grinning,  and  I  realized  that  the  old  man  was  drunk.  The  buzzer  on  Peggy's  desk  sounded  as  a  man  emerged  from  8-A.  She  said,  &quot;&quot;Miss  Colton?  ,&quot;  and  one  of  the  women  gasped  and  rose.  She  went  in,  and  came  out  in  about  ten  minutes,  and  I  tried  to  guess  how  her  audition  had  gone.  Her  face  was  calm,  but  her  hands  trem-  bled  as  she  folded  her  scripts  and  slipped  them  into  her  purse.  Someone  else  went  into  the  studio.  Half  an  hour" b"passed.  Three  more  people  were  called.  Mr.  Truesdale  sat  slumped  down  in  his  chair,  his  eyes  closed.  My  nerves  were  tightening.  I  went  to  the  washroom  and  stared  into  the  mirror.  The  Romeo  Cream  had  lost  its  grip  in  spots,  and  I  retouched  it.  Then  I  checked  to  make  sure  my  voice  was  still  functioning.  &quot;I  am  an  actor!&quot;  I  said,  rolling  out  the  words  like  Mr.  Truesdale.  They  echoed  nicely  in  the  tiled  room.  be  or  not  to  be!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Yoo-hoo!  Yes,  sir!  Hoo-hee!&quot;  I  was  not,  as  I  had  thought,  alone.  &quot;An  actor,  eh?&quot;  a  man  said,  coming  out  of  one  of  the  booths.  He  went  to  the  sink  and  began  to  wash  his  hands.  'You're  pretty  good,  kid,&quot;  he  said,  not  looking  up.  &quot;Yes,  sir.  Hoo-hee!&quot;  Ified,  and  asI  returned  to  8-A,  Peg-  gy  said,  &quot;You're  next.  Go  right  in.&quot;  There  was  no  time  to  compose  my-  self.  Picking  up  my  briefcase,  I  took  a  deep  breath  and  walked  through  the  double  doors.  HE  studio  was  huge  and  bleak,  its  walls  and  ceiling  covered  with  white  acoustic  tile,  There  was  not  much  furniture-a  bulky  shape  in  one  corner,  draped  in  canvas,  which  I  supposed  was  a  piano;  a  cabinet  garnished  with  dials  and  turntables;  and  one  chair.  A  gleam-  ing,  slender  microphone  stood  in  the  center  of  the  floor.  Behind  the  wide  plate-glass  window  of  the  control  room  were  two  men-one  ina  gray  suit,  the  other  in  his  shirtsleeves-and  a  red-  haired  woman  with  a  clipboard.  I  stood  still,  staring  at  the  sweeping  second  hand  of  the  clock  above  the  window.  &quot;IT'S  LATE,  KID!  LET'S  GET  GO-  ING,  O.K.?  WE  HAVEN'T-&quot;  A  boom-  ing  voice  shook  the  room,  and  I  leaped  backward.  &quot;FOR  GOD'S  SAKE,  FRANK,  YOUR  sOUND's  wWaY  UP!  TURN  IT  DOWN,  WILL  YOU?&quot;  Theman  in  the  gray  suit  had  risen.  &quot;Sorry,  kid,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  right  now?&quot;  I  nodded.  &quot;Fine,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  Coleman  Bartlett.  Welcome  to  N.B.C.,  and  we're  ready  when  you  are.&quot;  The  intercom  clicked  off.  There  was  only  silence  now;  they  weren't  go-  ing  to  give  me  any  instructions,  and  I  wondered  if  I  should  confess  that  I  had  lied  about  my  experience.  Then  I  thought  of  saying  that  I  wasn't  familiar  with  this  sort  of  microphone  and  would  appreciate  some  tips.  My  lips  moved,  but  no  sound  came  out.  In  the  control  room,  Frank,  the  man  in  shirtsleeves,  stared  down  at  his  panel,  puzzled.  The  intercom  clicked.  &quot;Hold  it,&quot;  Mr.  Bart-" b"lett  said.  &quot;Something's  wrong,.  We  can't  hear  you.&quot;  &quot;It's  him,  Cole,&quot;  Frank  said.  &quot;Ev-  erything's  working  here.&quot;  Mortified,  I  said,  &quot;Excuse  me.  I'm  ready  now.&quot;  I  took  my  scripts  from  the  briefcase  and,  clearing  my  throat,  stepped  close  to  the  microphone.  It  crackled  suddenly,  and  I  gave  a  little  cry.  The  intercom  clicked.  &quot;'Take  it  easy,&quot;  Bartlett  said.  &quot;'That's  only  feed-  back.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  sure,&quot;  I  said  faintly.  &quot;If  you  don't  mind  my  asking,&quot;  he  said,  'isthis  the  first  time  you've  been  in  a  studio?&quot;  I  nodded,  not  without  relief.  The  truth  was  out,  and  he  didn't  seem  angry.  &quot;Stand  about  afoot  from  the  mike,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tell  us  what  each  piece  is,  and  start  right  in.&quot;  I  stationed  myself  and  began.  &quot;First  I'm  going  to  do  a  scene  from  'Waiting  for  Letty,&quot;  by  Clifford  Odets!&quot;  I  shout-  ed.  &quot;A  very  famous  play  in  the  Amer-  ican  theatre!&quot;  I  saw  the  people  in  the  control  room  recoil.  The  intercom  clicked.  Patient  ly,  Bartlett  said,  &quot;Use  your  normal  tone  of  voice.  We'll  hear  you.&quot;  To  Frank  he  said,  &quot;Keep  your  hand  on  the  throt-  tle.&quot;  &quot;You're  damn  right  I  will,&quot;  Frank  said.  &quot;He  scared  the  hell  out  of  me.&quot;  Bartlett  signalled  me  to  go  on.  My  selection  was  Agate  Keller's  speech  in  the  union  hall,  in  which  he  exhorts  his  fellow-cabdrivers  to  go  out  on  strike.  &quot;What's  the  answer,  boys?&quot;  it  begins.  ''The  answer  is,  if  we're  reds  because  we  wanna  strike,  then  we  take  over  their  salute,  too!  Know  how  they  do  it?  [The  stage  direction  read,  &quot;Makes  Communist  salute.&quot;  I  made  one.]  What  is  it?  An  uppercut!  The  good  old  uppercut  to  the  chin'  Hell,  some  ofus  boys  ain't  even  got  a  shirt  to  our  back.  What's  the  boss  class  tryin'  to  do-make  a  nudist  colony  outa  us?&quot;  Glancing  at  the  control  room,  I  saw  that  I  had  the  full  attention  of  Mr.  Bartlett,  Frank,  and  the  lady  with  the  clipboard.  No  longer  nervous,  I  plunged  ahead.  The  phrases  of  Agate's  speech  still  ring  in  my  ears  today:  &quot;.  .  .  your  life  and  mine!  .  ..  skull  and  bones  every  incha  the  road!  Christ,  we're  dyin'  by  inches!  .  ..  Working  class,  unite  and  fight!  Tear  down  the  slaughterhouse  of  our  old  lives!&quot;  And  finally  the  climax:  &quot;But  the  man  who  got  me  food  in  1932,  he  called  me  Com-  rade!  The  one  who  picked  me  up  where  I  bled-he  called  me  Comrade  too!  What  are  we  waiting  for?  .  ..  Don't " b"wait  for  Lefty!  come!&quot;  ~  I  looked  up  again.  Their  eyes  were  still  riveted  upon  me.  No  one  spoke,  and  I  asked  calmly,  &quot;Should  I  go  on  to  the  next  one?&quot;  Bartlett  cleared  his  throat.  &quot;I'm  ready,&quot;he  said.  &quot;I  think  I  am.  You  ready,  Grace?  You  ready,  Frank?&quot;  &quot;Let'er  rip,&quot;  Frank  said.  I  announced,  &quot;  'They  Knew  W  hat  They  Wanted,&quot;  by  Sidney  Howard.  This  is  at  the  end  of  theplay,  after  Amy,  the  young  girl,  tells  her  old  Ital-  ian  husband,  Tony,  that  she's  going  to  have  a  baby,  but  it  isn't  his.  The  father  is  Joe,  Tony's  handsome  fore-  man.&quot;  Since  N.B.C.  had  suggested  that  the  artist  indicate  his  vocal  range,  I  played  Amy  and  Tony  in  this  scene.  I  read  Amy  in  a  high  voice  and  with  a  slight  drawl.  She  came  from  San  Francisco,  and  I  assumed  they  talked  slower  in  the  West.  For  Tony,  I  dropped  several  oc-  taves  to  achieve  a  warm,  accented,  Ital-  ian  baritone.  Full  of  confidence  now,  I  performed  with  all  the  nuance  and  pow-  er  at  my  command.  &quot;Amy:  I  never  loved  Joe.  [REDACTED],  I  never.  I  was  crazy.  Tony:  You  been  just  like  da  Padre  say  you  was  ...  you  been  a  whore!  Amy:  I  ain't!  I  ain't!  I  been  straight  all  my  life!  Only  that  one  night  .  .  .  Tony:  Wat  night?  Amy:  The  first  night  I  come  here.  Tony:  Da  night  you  marry  with  me!  Amv:  I  ain't  even-&quot;  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  Mr.  Bartlett  said,  over  the  intercom.  &quot;It's  not  necessary  to  read  the  character  names.  We  can  tell  which  one  is  speaking.&quot;  Undisturbed,  I  read  on  to  the  speech  with  which  I  would  conclude  the  scene-Tony's  response  to  Amy's  dec-  laration  that  she  will  go  away  with  Joe.  &quot;I  don'  let  you  go!&quot;  he  screams.  &quot;I  don'  let  you  go!  By  God,  I'm  goin'  kill  dat  Joe!  Questo  bastardo,  Joe!  I'm  goin'  kill  him  an'  keep  you  here  for  see  me  kill  him!  Goddam  you!  You  God-  dam  dirty  ..  .!&quot;  The  stage  direc-  tion  says  that  here  Tony,  sputtering  with  rage,  seizes  his  shotgun  and  loads  it.  Aware  that  visual  business  would  not  do  for  a  radio  presentation,  I  read  the  last  lines  as  if  Tony  had  succumbed  to  despair  rather  than  rage,  and  con-  cluded  with  a  vast  sob  that  subsided  to  a  pitiable  moan.  As  the  last  whimper  trailed  away,  I  looked  at  the  control  room  again  and  saw  that  my  little  audi-  ence  had  unquestionably  been  affected  by  this  ingenuity.  They  seemed  trans-  fixed.  I  gave  them  a  moment  to  collect  themselves,  and  then,  with  a  modest " b"smile,  told  them  that  I  would  conclude  with  a  scene  between  Emily  and  George  from  &quot;Our  Town,&quot;  by  Thornton  Wilder.  Mr.  Bartlett  shook  his  head  as  though  to  clear  it.  &quot;I  guess  you  didn't  know,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  audition  pieces  are  usually  monologues.  People  sometimes  bridge  a  few  major  speeches  from  a  two-char-  acter  scene,  but  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;I  can't  do  that  with  this  one,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  mean  it  would  take  time  to  work  it  out.&quot;  He  asked  if  I  had  another  copy  of  the  scene,  and  I  said  there  was  one  in  my  briefcase.  He  came  into  the  studio,  and  I  gave  it  to  him.  &quot;I  know  the  play  pret-  ty  well,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Suppose  I  read  Emily  and  you  concentrate  on  George?  O.K.?&quot;  I  nodded  uncertainly,  and  he  went  back  into  the  control  room.  I  had  chosen  the  scene  in  which  Emi-  ly  Webb  and  George  Gibbs  leave  the  Grover's  Corners  school  and  stop  at  Morgan's  Drugstore  for  ice  cream.  Mr.  Bartlett  read  simply,  making  no  effort  to  give  Emily's  lines  their  full  value,  yet  with  enough  emphasis  to  justify  my  more  ambitious  efforts  as  George,  and  soon  I  was  caught  up.  We  finished  the  tender,  awkward  conversation  in  which  the  two  youngsters  promise  to  spend  their  lives  together,  and  suddenly  I  was  overwhelmed  by  what  was  to  happen  later  in  the  play.  A  few  short  years  and  Emilywould  die,  and  George  would  live  on  alone  with  his  memories  of  their  childhood,  and  of  the  moment  in  the  drugstore  when  they  had  declared  themselves.  It  was  too  much  for  me;  a  lump  rose  in  my  throat  and  I  sobbed  twice  before  I  could  catch  myself.  Groping  for  my  handkerchief,  I  turned  away  from  the  control  room.  The  in-  tercom  clicked  on  for  the  last  time.  &quot;'That  does  it,  eh?&quot;  Mr.  Bartlett  said.  &quot;Hold  on,  I'll  be  right  out.&quot;  There  was  a  muffled  gasping,  and  before  he  clicked  off  I  heard  him  say,  &quot;For  God's  sake,  Grace!  Can't  you-&quot;  I  looked  up  and  saw  that  the  red-  haired  woman  had  covered  her  face  with  her  hands  and  that  her  shoulders  were  trembling.  Bartlett  was  still  speak-  ing  to  her  and  I  wondered  why  he  looked  angry.  And  then  I  saw  Frank's  grin,  and  I  understood.  Grace  was  laughing-they  had  all  been  laughing,  from  the  beginning.  I  remembered  the  passion  I  had  given  Agate  Keller's  speech,  and  the  Amy-Tony  scene,  and  I  saw  myself  as  they  must  have  seen  me-fat  and  pomaded,  shouting  into  the  microphone.  Mr.  Bartlett  came  into  the  studio  " b"and  handed  me  the  carbon  pages  of  the  &quot;Our  Town&quot;  script.  It  would  be  a  week  or  two  before  I  received  an  audition  re-  port,  he  said.  He  was  sorrythere  wasn't  time  for  us  to  chat,  but  other  people  were  waiting  to  be  heard.  I  SAW  Peggy  smiling  at  me  from  her  desk  as  I  went  by,  and  Mr.  Truesdale  still  slumped  in  his  chair  with  his  eyes  shut.  I  wondered,  walking  down  the  long  corridor,  if  he  would  get  to  talk  to  Mr.  Bartlett.  I  felt  slightly  cold.  In  the  elevator,  I  told  myself  that  I  would  drive  the  whole  experience  from  my  mind,  but  the  initial  numbness  wore  off  quickly,  and  I  was  in  anguish  when  I  boarded  the  subway.  By  the  time  I  reached  the  Van  Cortlandt  Park  station,  it  had  subsided.  Walking  up  the  hill,  still  hurt  but  not  devastated,  I  drew  comfort  from  the  thought  that  I  would  never  see  Bartlett,  Frank,  or  Grace  again.  No  one  else  knew  the  audition  had  been  a  fiasco.  There  was  no  need  to  cover  myself  at  school,  and  handling  the  family  would  not  be  difficult.  They  were  waiting  for  me,  elabo-  rately  casual,  fearing  the  worst.  I  told  them  the  story  I  had  prepared  as  I  climbed  the  hill:  I  had  read  my  scenes,  and  it  had  gone  all  right,  but  the  director  had  said  that  my  voice  was  too  mature  for  children's  parts.  &quot;The  thing  is,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;that  they  can't  put  grown-up  ac-  tors  out  of  work  to  give  me  a  job.&quot;  My  mother,  relieved,  said  that  made  sense  to  her,  and  my  father  said,  &quot;Cer-  tainly.  After  all,  those  men  have  fami-  lies  to  support.&quot;  At  dinner,  Bobby  said  it  sounded  pretty  fishy  to  him,  and  Mother  told  him  to  be  still.  Before  I  went  to  bed,  I  put  a  small  lamp  on  top  of  my  dresser  to  represent  a  microphone  and  read  a  few  lines  from  &quot;Our  Town,&quot;  hoping  to  recapture  the  feeling  I  had  had  when  I  read  with  Mr.  Bartlett,  but  all  I  could  remember  was  the  laughter  in  the  control  room.  My  father  came  in  just  after  I  had  put  the  script  away.  &quot;I  won't  keep  you,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  I'd  like  you  to  know  that  I'm  very  proud  of  your...  uh...  pep.  Your  ambition,  that  is.  I  take  my  hat  off  to  you.&quot;  I  could  tell  that  he  had  prepared  the  speech  ahead  of  time.  &quot;Thanks,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  was  pretty  tough  this  afternoon,  I  suppose?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;&quot;No,&quot;  I  said  stiffly.  &quot;I  told  you  about  it,  didn't  I?  It  was  O.K.&quot;  &quot;'That's  good,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  you  won't  be  acting  any  more,  will  you?  For  a  while,  anyhow.&quot;  I  wanted  to  be  left  alone,  and  I  spoke  " b"with  more  defiance  than  I  intended.  not  the  only  place,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;'There's  C.B.S.,  and  Mutual,  too.  I  might  try  them.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  he  said,  and  hesitated.  Then  he  said,  &quot;Can't  keep  a  good  man  down,  can  you?  Well,  good  night  again.  Go  on  to  bed.&quot;  He  was  looking  at  me  as  he  had  the  night  he  learned  of  the  audition.  I  re-  membered  that  I  had  been  angry,  then,  too,  and  suddenly  I  knew  that  there  was  no  reason  to  be  angry.  He  was  staring  at  me  because  I  had  been  hurt  and  would  not  tell  him  so-because  he  loved  me  and  would  like  to  comfort  me,  and  he  did  not  know  how  to  put  these  things  in  words.  I  did  the  best  I  could.  &quot;Don't  wor-  ry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;[REDACTED]  to  God,  every-  thing's  O.K.&quot;  &quot;I'm  glad  to  hear  it,&quot;  my  father  said.  'Tell  your  mother  when  you  get  a  chance.&quot;  COLEMAN  BarTLETT's  letter  arrived  one  week  later,  in  the  morning  mail.  He  was  writing  personally,  he  said,  because  although  I  had  not  passed  the  audition,  he  wanted  to  be  sure  I  didn't  feel  it  was  a  reflection  on  my  talent;  it  was  simply  that  I  lacked  the  experience  to  compete  with  adult,  professional  actors.  He  was,  however,  about  to  take  over  the  direction  of  &quot;Junior  Playhouse,&quot;  a  Saturday-morn-  ing  network  program  that  specialized  in  dramatizations  of  great  moments  in  history.  The  casting  was  limited  to  actors  sixteen  or  younger,  and  he  would  like  to  use  me.  I  was  to  call  his  office  if  I  was  interested,  and  ask  for  Miss  Robinson,  who  would  put  my  name  on  the  &quot;available&quot;  list.  I  went  directly  to  the  phone  and  was  advised  by  the  N.B.C.  switchboard  that  none  of  the  executive  offices  were  open  at  8  a.m.  Calling  at  ten-minute  in-  tervals,  I  reached  Miss  Robinson  at  half  past  nine,  and  told  her  that  I  was  avail-  able  any  time.  Three  weeks  later,  I  made  my  &quot;Junior  Playhouse&quot;  d\xc3\xa9but  as  General  Ulysses  S.  Grant  in  a  play  about  the  life  of  Abraham  Lincoln.  I  had  only  one  scene,  and  I  was  concerned,  after  the  program,  about  the  tremor  that  had  crept  into  my  voice  while  we  were  on  the  air,  but  Mr.  Bartlett  was  reassur-  ing.  It  was  common  knowledge  that  General  Grant  drank  heavily,  he  said.  The  audience  would  probably  attribute  it  to  that.  My  family  listened  to  the  show,  and  they  were  still  beaming  when  I  got  home.  Bobby  seemed  a  little  dazed; " b"able  to  find  words,  he  brought  me  a  glass  of  water  to  indicate  his  respect.  My  father  shook  my  hand.  &quot;You  were  fine,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  enjoyed  it  very  much.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  well,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  was  a  pretty  small  part.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  it  wasn't  Hamlet,&quot;  my  mother  said,  &quot;but  we're  proud  of  you,  dear.  It's  a  beginning.&quot;  It  was,  in  several  ways.  It  was  the  be-  ginning  ofa  long  involvement  with  radio  and  theatre  and  the  movies-not  always  as  an  actor-that  led  me  even-  tually  from  New  York  to  [REDACTED]  and  back.  More  immediately,  it  was  the  beginning  of  happier  times  at  school.  I  was  on  &quot;Junior  Playhouse&quot;  often  that  winter,  which  gave  me  status,  and  be-  fore  summer  came  I  made  friends  with  Jay  Inglehardt  and  Whitey  Brenner,  and  I  lost  almost  fifteen  pounds."