 b"THERE  was,  on  the  onehand,  the  railroad  station  in  St.  Botolph's,  with  its  rich  aura  of  arrivals  and  departures,  its  smells  ofcoal  gas,  floor  oil,  and  toilets,  and  its  dark  waiting  room,  where  some  force  of  magnifica-  tion  seemed  brought  to  bear  on  the  lives  of  the  passengers  waiting  for  their  train  toarrive;  and,  on  the  other  hand,  this  loft  or  palace,  its  glass  walls  open  to  the  overcast  sky,  where  spaciousness,  effi-  ciency,  and  the  smell  of  artificial  leather  seemed  not  to  magnify  but  to  diminish  the  knowledge  the  passengers  had  of  one  another.  Coverly's  plane  was  due  to  leave  at  two,  but  at  a  quarter  to  three  they  still  waited  at  the  gate.  A  few  of  the  passengers  were  grumbling,  and  two  or  three  of  them  had  copies  of  an  after-  noon  paper  that  reported  a  jet  crash  in  [REDACTED]  with  a  death  list  of  seventy-  three.  Was  the  jet  that  had  crashed  the  one  they  were  waiting  for?  Had  they,  standing  in  the  dim  sunlight,  received  some  singular  mercy?  Had  their  lives  been  saved?  Coverly  went  to  the  infor-  mation  desk  to  ask  about  his  flight.  The  question  was  certainly  legitimate,  but  the  clerk  reacted  sullenly,  as  if  the  purchase  of  a  plane  ticket  was  a  contract  to  walk  humbly  and  in  darkness.  &quot;There  is  some  delay,&quot;  he  said,  unwillingly.  &quot;There  may  be  some  engine  trouble,  or  the  con-  necting  flight  from  Europe  may  be  de-  layed.  You  won't  board  until  half  past  three.&quot;  Coverly  thanked  him  for  this  favor  and  went  up  some  stairs  to  a  bar.  On  a  gilt  easel  at  the  right  of  the  door  was  a  photograph  of  a  pretty  singer  in  evening  clothes,  a  delegate  of  all  those  thousands  who  beam  at  us  from  the  thresholds  of  bars  and  hotel  dining  rooms;  but  she  didn't  go  on  until  nine  and  would  probably  be  asleep  now,  or  taking  her  wash  out  to  the  laundromat.  Inside,  there  was  piped-in  music  and  the  bartender  wore  military  livery.  Coverly  took  a  stool  and  ordered  a  beer.  The  man  beside  him  was  swaying  com-  fortably  on  his  stool.  &quot;Where  you  go-  ing?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;San  Francisco.&quot;  &quot;Me,  too!&quot;  the  stranger  exclaimed,  striking  Coverly  on  the  back.  &quot;I've  been  going  to  San  Francisco  for  three  days.&quot;  &quot;'That's  right,&quot;  the  bartender  said.  &quot;He's  missed  eight  flights  now.  Isn't  it  eight?&quot;  &quot;Eight,&quot;  the  stranger  said.  &quot;It's  because  I  love  my  wife.  My  wife's  in  San  Francisco,  and  I  love  her  so  much  I  can't  get  on  the  plane.&quot;  &quot;It's  good  for  business,&quot;  the  barkeep  said.  In  the  gloom  at  the  end  of  the  bar  two  conspicuous  homosexuals  with  bleached  yellow  hair  were  drinking  rum.  A  fam-  ily  satat  a  table  eating  lunch  and  con-  versing  in  advertising  slogans.  It  seemed  to  be  a  family  joke.  &quot;My!&quot;  the  mother  exclaimed.  &quot;'T  aste  those  bite-sized  chunks  of  white  Idaho  turkey  meat,  reinforced  with  riboflavin,  for  added  zest.&quot;  &quot;I  like  the  crispy,  crunchy  potato  chips,&quot;  the  boy  said.  &quot;Toasted  to  a  golden  brown  in  health-giving  infrared  ovens  and  topped  with  imported  salt.&quot;  &quot;I  like  the  spotless  rest  rooms,&quot;  said  the  girl,  &quot;operated  under  the  supervi-  sion  of  a  trained  nurse  and  hygienically  sealed  for  our  comfort,  convenience,  and  peace  of  mind.&quot;  &quot;Winstons  taste  good,&quot;  piped  the  baby  in  his  high  chair,  &quot;like  a  cigarette  should.  Winstons  have  finer  ffevor.&quot;  The  dark  bar  had  the  authority  of  a  creation,  but  it  was  a  creation  evolved  without  reference  to  the  symbolism  of  the  universe.  With  the  exception  of  the  labels  on  the  bottles,  there  was  nothing  familiar  in  the  place.  Its  lights  were  cavernous,  its  walls  were  dark  mirrors.  There  was  not  even  a  truncated  piece  of  driftwood  or  a  coaster  shaped  like  a  leaf  to  remind  him  of  the  world  outside.  That  beauty  of  sameness  that  makes  the  star  and  the  shell,  the  sea  and  the  clouds  all  seem  to  have  come  from  the  same  hand  was  lost.  The  music  was  inter-  rupted  forthe  announcement  that  Cov-  erly's  flight  was  boarding,  and  he  paid  for  his  beer  and  grabbed  his  bag.  He  stopped  inthe  men's  room,  where  someone  had  writ-  &amp;  ten  something  exceedingly  hu-  ~  man  on  the  wall,  and  then  fol-  lowed  the  lighted  numbers  down  the  long  corridor  to  his  gate.  There  was  still  no  plane  in  sight,  but  none  of  the  passengers  had  been  moved  by  the  delay  or  the  news  of  the  crash  to  change  their  plans.  They  stood  there  passively,  as  if  the  sullen  clerk  had  in  fact  sold  them  humility  with  their  tickets.  Coverly's  topcoat  was  too  warm  for  that  climate,  but  most  of  the  other  passengers  had  come  from  places  that  were  colder  or  warmer  than  here.  From  a  duct  directly  overhead,  the  continuous  music  poured  gently  into  their  ears.  &quot;It's  going  to  be  all  right,&quot;  an  old  lady  beside  Coverly  whis-  pered  to  an  even  older  companion.  &quot;It  isn't  dangerous.  It  isn't  any  more  dan-  gerous  than  the  trains.  They  carry  mil-  lions  of  passengers  every  year.  It's  going  to  be  all  right.&quot;  The  fingers  of  the  older,  knobbed  like  driftwood,  touched  her  cheeks,  and  in  her  eyes  was  the  fear  of  death.  Death  was  what  the  scene  meant     S  to  her-the  frisky  mechanics  in  their  white  coveralls,  the  numbered  runways,  the  noise  of  an  incoming  707.  A  baby  cried.  A  man  ran  a  comb  through  his  hair.  The  objects  and  sounds  around  Coverly  seemed  to  group  themselves  into  some  immutable  statement.  These  were  the  facts-this  music,  the  fear  of  death  endured  by  the  old  stranger,  the  flat-  nessof  the  field,  and  way  in  the  distance  the  roofs  of  some  houses.  The  plane  came  in,  they  boarded,  and  the  stewardess  seated  Coverly  be-  tween  another  old  lady  and  a  man  whose  breath  smelled  of  whiskey.  The  stew-  ardess  wore  high-heeled  shoes,  a  rain-  coat,  and  dark  glasses.  Coverly  saw  un-  der  her  raincoat  the  skirts  of  a  red  silk  dress.  As  soon  as  she  had  closed  the  plane,  she  went  to  the  toilet  and  re-  appeared  in  the  gray  skirt  and  white  silk  blouse  of  her  profession.  Her  eyes,  when  she  took  off  her  glasses,  were  haggard,  and  she  peered  out  of  them  in  pain.  &quot;Joe  Burner,&quot;  said  the  man  on  Coverly's  right,  and  Coverly  shook  his  hand  and  introduced  himself.  &quot;I'm  pleased  to  meet  you,  Cove,&quot;  the  stranger  said.  &quot;I  have  a  little  present  here  I'd  like  to  give  you.&quot;  He  took  a  small  box  from  his  pocket,  and  when  Coverly  opened  it  he  found  a  gilt  tie  clip.  &quot;I  travel  a  lot,&quot;  the  stranger  explained,  &quot;and  I  give  away  these  tie  clips  wherever  I  go.  I  have  them  manufactured  for  me  in  Provi-  dence.  'That's  the  jewelry  capital  of  the  United  [REDACTED].  I  give  away  two  or  three  thousand  clips  a  year.  It's  a  nice  way  of  making  friends.  Everybody  can  use  a  tie  clip.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you  very  much,&quot;  Cov-  erly  said.  &quot;I  knit  socks  for  astronauts,&quot;  said  theold  lady  on  Coverly's  left.  &quot;Oh,  I  know  it's  silly  of  me,  but  I  love  those  boys,  and  I  can't  bear  to  think  of  them  having  cold  feet.  I've  sent  ten  pairs  of  socks  down  to  Canaveral  in  the  last  six  weeks.  They  don't  thank  me,  it's  true,  but  they've  never  returned  them,  and  I  like  to  think  that  they  use  them.&quot;  &quot;I'm  taking  a  few  days  off,  to  see  an  old  friend  who's  dying  of  cancer,&quot;  said  Joe  Burner.  &quot;I  have  at  this  date  twen-  ty-seven  friends  who  are  dying  of  can-  cer.  Some  of  them  know  it.  Some  of  them  don't.  But  not  a  one  of  them  has  more  than  ayear  to  live.&quot;  They  were  wrapped  then  ina  heard  and  unheard  convulsion  of  sound  and  pushed  roughly  back  against  their  seats  by  the  force  of  gravity  as  the  plane  went  down  the  strip  and  began  its  strenuous  push  for  altitude.  A  large  panel  fell  out  of  the  ceiling  and  crashed  into  the  aisle,  and  the  glasses  and  bottles  in  the  pantry  rattled  noisily.  When  they  had  risen  " b" above  the  scattered  clouds,  the  passen-  gers  unbuckled  their  seat  belts  and  re-  sumed  their  lives,  their  habits.  &quot;Good  afternoon,&quot;  said  the  loudspeaker.  &quot;This  is  Captain  MacPherson,  welcoming  you  to  Flight  73,  non-stop  to  San  Francisco.  We  have  reports  of  a  little  fog  in  the  43616e616461area,  but  we  expect  it  to  clear  by  scheduled  landing  time.  We  are  sorry  about  the  delay,  and  wish  to  take  this  occasion  to  thank  you  all  for  your  patience  in  not  doing  nothing  about  it.&quot;  The  speaker  clicked  off.  Coverly  could  not  see  that  anyone  else  was  perplexed.  Was  he  mistaken  in  as-  suming  that  navigational  competence  implied  a  rudimentary  grasp  of  Eng-  lish?  Joe  Burnerhad  begun  to  tell  him  the  story  of  his  life.  His  style  was  nearly  bardic.  He  began  with  the  char-  acters  of  his  parents.  He  described  his  birthplace.  Then  he  told  Coverly  about  his  two  older  brothers,  his  interest  in  sand-lot  baseball,  his  odd  jobs,  the  schools  he  had  attended,  the  wonderful  butter-  milk  pancakes  that  his  mother  used  to  make,  and  the  friends  that  he  had  won  and  lost.  He  told  Coverly  his  annual  grosses,  the  size  of  his  office  staff,  the  nature  of  his  three  operations.  He  told  Coverly  about  the  wonderfulness  of  his  wife,  and  he  told  him  the  amount  of  money  it  had  cost  him  to  landscape  his  seven-room  two-bath  house  on  Long  Island.  &quot;I  have  something  very  unique,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  have  this  lighthouse  on  my  front  lawn.  Four,  five  years  ago,  this  big  estate  on  Sands  Point  was  auctioned  off  for  taxes,  and  Mother  and  I  went  down  there  to  see  if  there  was  anything  we  could  use.  Well,  they  had  this  little  lake  with  a  lighthouse  on  it-just  ornamen-  tal,  of  course-and  when  it  came  time  to  buy  the  lighthouse,  the  bidding  was  very  slow.  Well,  I  bid  thirty-five  dollars,  just  for  the  heck  of  it,  and  you  know  what?  That  lighthouse  was  mine.  Well,  I  have  this  friend  in  the  trucking  business-you  have  to  know  the  right  people-and  he  went  down  there  and  got  it  out  of  the  lake.  I  don't  know  to  this  day  how  he  did  it.  Well,  I've  got  this  other  friend  in  the  electric  business,  and  he  wired  it  up  for  me,  and  now  I've  got  this  lighthouse  right  on  my  front  lawn.  It  makes  the  place  look  real  nice.  Of  course,  some  of  the  neighbors  complain-you  find  clink-  ers  in  every  gang-so  I  don't  turn  it  on  every  night,  but  whenwe  have  people  in  to  play  cards  or  watch  the  television  I  turn  it  on,  and  it  looks  beautiful.&quot;  The  sky  by  then  was  the  dark  blue  of  high  altitudes,  and  the  atmosphere  in  the  plane  was  as  genial  as  that  of  a  saloon.  The  white  blouse  the  stewardess  wore  came  loose  whenever  she  bent  over  to  serve  a  cocktail.  She  tucked  it  in  each  time  she  straightened  up.  The  seat  backs  were  as  high  as  the  walls  of  an  old  box  pew,  and  the  passengers  had  a  limited  de-  gree  of  privacy  and  a  limited  view  of  one  another.  Then  the  bulkheaddoor  opened  and  Coverly  saw  the  captain  come  down  the  aisle.  His  color  was  bad,  and  his  eyes  were  as  haggard  as  the  eyes  of  the  stewardess.  Perhaps  he  was  a  friend  of  the  pilot  and  crew  who  had  crashed  a  few  hours  earlier  in  [REDACTED].  Would  he,  would  anyone  else,  have  the  fortitude  to  face  this  disaster  calmly?  Would  the  charred  bones  of  seventy-three  bod-  ies  mean  any  less  to  him  than  they  did  to  the  rest  of  the  world?  He  nodded  to  the  stewardess,  who  fol-  lowed  him  aft  to  the  pantry.  They  did  not  exchange  a  word,  but  she  put  some  ice  into  a  paper  cup  and  poured  a  whiskey  into  it.  He  car-  ried  his  drink  forward  and  closed  the  door.  The  old  lady  was  dozing,  and  Joe  Burner,  having  finished  with  his  autobiography,  had  begun  to  tell  his  stock  of  jokes.  Without  any  warn-  ing,  the  plane  dropped  about  twenty  thousand  feet.  The  confusion  was  horri-  ble.  Most  of  the  drinks  hit  the  ceiling,  men  and  women  were  thrown  into  the  aisles,  children  were  screaming.  &quot;Attention,  attention,&quot;  said  the  public-address  sys-  tem.  &quot;Hear  this,  everyone.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  my  God,&quot;  the  stewardess  said,  and  she  went  aft  and  strapped  herself  in.  &quot;Attention,  attention,&quot;  said  the  ampli-  fied  voice,  and  Coverly  wondered  then  if  this  might  be  the  last  voice  that  he  heard.  Once,  when  he  was  being  prepared  for  a  critical  operation,  he  had  looked  out  of  his  hospital  window  into  the  window  of  an  apartment  house  across  the  street,  where  a  fat  woman  was  dusting  a  grand  piano.  He  had  already  been  given  sodi-  um  pentothal  and  was  swiftly  losing  con-  sciousness,  but  he  resisted  the  drug  long  enough  to  feel  resentment  at  the  fact  that  the  last  he  might  see  of  the  beloved  world  was  a  fat  woman  dusting  a  grand  piano.  &quot;Attention,  attention,&quot;  the  voice  said.  The  plane  had  levelled  off  in  the  heart  ofa  dark  cloud.  &quot;This  is  not  your  cap-  tain.  Your  captain  is  tied  up  in  the  head.  Please  do  not  move,  please  do  not  move  from  your  seats,  or  I  will  cut  off  your  oxygen  supply.  We  are  travelling  at  five  hundred  miles  an  hour,  at  an  altitude  of  twenty-two  thousand  feet,  andany  dis-  turbance  you  create  will  only  add  to  your  danger.  I  have  logged  nearly  a  million  air  miles  and  am  disqualified  as  a  pilot  only  because  of  my  political  opin-  ions.  This  is  a  robbery.  In  a  few  minutes  my  accomplice  will  enter  the  cabin  by  the  forward  bulkhead,  and  you  will  give  him  your  wallets,  purses,  jewelry,  and  any  other  valuables  that  you  have.  Do  " b"not  create  any  disturbance.  You  are  helpless.  I  repeat:  You  are  helpless.&quot;  &quot;'Talk  to  me,  talk  to  me,&quot;  the  old  lady  asked.  &quot;Please  just  say  something,  anything.&quot;  Coverly  turned  and  nodded  to  her,  but  his  tongue  was  so  swollen  with  fear  that  he  could  not  make  a  sound.  He  worked  it  around  desperately  in  his  mouth  to  stir  up  some  lubrication.  'The  other  passengers  were  still,  and  on  they  rocketed  through  the  dark-sixty-five  or  seventy  strangers,  their  noses  pressed  against  the  turmoil  of  death.  What  would  be  its  mode?  Fire?  Should  they,  like  the  martyrs,  inhale  the  flames  to  shorten  the  agony?  Would  they  be  trun-  cated,  beheaded,  mutilated,  and  scat-  tered  over  three  miles  of  farmland?  Would  they  be  ejaculated  into  the  dark-  ness  and  yet  not  lose  consciousness  dur-  ing  the  dreadful  fall  to  earth?  Would  they  be  drowned,  and  while  drowning  display  for  the  last  time  their  talent  for  inhumanity  in  trampling  one  another  at  the  flooding  bulkheads?  It  was  the  dark-  nessthat  gave  him  most  pain.  The  shad-  ow  of  a  bridgeor  a  building  can  fall  across  our  spirit  with  all  the  weight  of  a  piece  of  bad  news,  and  it  was  the  dark-  ness  that  seemed  to  compromise  his  spirit.  All  he  wanted  then  was  to  see  some  light,  a  patch  of  blue  sky.  A  woman  sitting  for-  ward  began  to  sing  &quot;Nearer,  My  God,  to  Thee.&quot;  It  was  a  common  church  so-  prano,  feminine,  decent,  raised  once  a  week  in  the  company  of  her  neighbors.  &quot;E'en  though  it  be  a  cross  that  raiseth  me,&quot;  she  sang,  &quot;&quot;still  all  my  song  would  be,  nearer,  my  God,  to  thee  .  ..&quot;  A  man  across  the  aisle  took  up  the  hymn,  joined  quickly  by  several  others,  and,  when  Coverly  remembered  the  words,  he  sang:  &quot;Though  like  the  wanderer,  The  sun  gone  down,  Darkness  beover  me,  My  rest  a  stone  ...&quot;  Joe  Burner  and  the  old  lady  were  singing,  and  those  who  didn't  know  the  words  came  in  strong  on  the  refrain.  The  bulkhead  door  opened,  and  there  was  the  thief.  He  wore  a  felt  hat  and  a  black  handkerchief  tied  over  his  face,  with  holes  cut  for  the  eyes.  It  was,  ex-  cept  for  the  felt  hat,  the  ancient  mask  of  the  headsman,.  He  wore  black  rubber  gloves  and  carried  a  plastic  wastebasket  to  collect  their  valuables.  Coverly  roared:  &quot;There  let  the  way  appear,  Steps  unto  heaven,  All  that  thou  sendest  me  In  mercy  given  ...&quot;  They  sang  more  in  rebelliousness  than  in  piety;  they  sang  because  it  was  something  to  do.  And  merely  in  having  found  something  to  do  they  had  con-  founded  the  claim  that  they  were  help-  less.  They  had  found  themselves,  and  this  accounted  forthe  extraordinary  force  and  volume  of  their  voices.  They  gave  up  their  valuables  obediently,  and  when  the  thief  had  robbed  the  last  of  them,  he  turned  back  to  the  bulkhead,  staggering  a  little  against  the  motion  of  the  plane-a  disadvantage  that  made  his  figure  seem  familiar  and  harmless.  They  sang:  &quot;Then,  with  my  waking  thoughts,  Bright  with  thy  praise,  Out  of  my  stony  griefs,  Bethel  I'll  raise  ...&quot;  &quot;Thank  you  for  your  cooperation,&quot;  said  the  public-addresssystem.  &quot;We  will    make  an  unscheduled  landing  in  West  Franklin  in  about  eleven  minutes.  Please  fasten  your  seat  belts  and  observe  the  no-smoking  signal.&quot;  THE  cloud  outside  the  ports  began  to  lighten,  to  turn  from  gray  to  white,  and  then  they  sailed  free  into  the  blue  sky  of  late  afternoon  and  Coverly  felt  alove  of  life,  of  beauty,  of  the  earth  rise  and  constrict  his  chest  like  an  attack  of  pleurisy.  The  old  lady  dried  her  tears  and  smiled.  Joe  Burner  made  the  sign  of  the  cross.  The  plane  was  losing  alti-  tude  rapidly,  and  then  below  them  they  could  see  the  roofs  of  a  city  that  seemed  like  the  handiwork  of  a  marvellously  humble  people  going  about  useful  tasks  and  raising  their  children  in  goodness  " b"and  charity,  Never  had  the  world,  Cov-  erly  felt  in  his  desire  to  rejoin  mankind,  seemed  so  touching  and  so  earnest.  The  moment  when  they  ceased  to  be  airborne  passed  with  a  thump  and  a  roar  of  the  reverse  jets,  and  out  ofthe  ports  they  could  see  that  international  wilderness  that  hedges  airstrips.  Scrubgrass  and  weeds,  a  vegetable  slum,  struggled  in  the  sandy  bottom  soil  that  formed  the  banks  of  an  oily  creek.  Someone  shout-  ed,  &quot;There  they  go!&quot;  Two  passengers  opened  the  bulkhead.  There  were  con-  fused  voices,  and  when  someone  asked  for  information,  the  complexity  of  hu-  man  relationships  so  swiftly  re\xc3\xa9stab-  lished  itself  that  those  who  knew  what  was  going  on  pridefully  refused  to  com-  municate  with  those  who  didn't  and  the  first  man  into  the  forward  cabin  spoke  to  them  with  condescension.  &quot;If  you'll  quiet  down  for  a  minute,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I'll  tell  you  what  we  know.  We've  released  the  crew  and  the  captain  has  made  radio  contact  with  the  police.  'The  thieves  got  away.  That's  all  I  can  tell  you  now.&quot;  Then  faintly,faintly,  they  heard  the  sirens  approaching  over  the  airstrip.  The  first  to  come  was  a  fire  crew,  who  put  a  ladder  up  against  the  door  and  got  it  open.  Next  to  come  were  the  police,  who  told  them  they  were  all  going  to  be  held.  &quot;You're  going  to  be  let  off  in  lots  of  ten,&quot;  one  ofthe  policemen  said.  &quot;You're  going  to  be  questioned.&quot;  He  was  gruff,  but  they  were  magnanimous.  They  were  alive,  and  no  incivility  could  disturb  them.  The  police  then  began  to  count  them  off  in  lots.  The  ladder  of  the  fire  truck  was  the  only  way  of  get-  ting  down  from  the  plane,  and  the  older  passengers  mounted  this  querulously,  their  faces  working  with  pain.  Those  who  waited  seemed  immersed  in  the  pas-  sivity  of  some  military  process,  seemed  to  suffer  that  suspense  of  discernment  and  responsibility  that  overtakes  any  line  of  soldiers.  Coverly  was  No.  7  in  the  last  lot.  A  gust  of  dusty  wind  blew  against  his  clothing  as  he  went  down  the  ladder.  A  policeman  took  him  by  the  arm-a  touch  he  instantly  and  bitterly  resent-  ed-and  it  was  all  he  could  do  to  keep  from  flinging  the  man's  arm  off.  He  was  put  with  his  group  into  a  closed  police  van  with  barred  windows.  A  policeman  took  him  again  by  the  arm  when  he  left  the  van,  and  again  he  had  to  struggle  to  control  himself.  W  hat  was  this  testiness  of  his  flesh,  he  won-  dered.  Why  did  he  loathe  this  stranger's  touch?  Rising  before  him  was  the  Cen-  tral  Police  Headquarters-a  yellow  brick  building  with  a  few  halfhearted  archi-  tectural  flourishes  and  a  few  declara-  tions  of  innocent  love  written  in  chalk  on  the  walls.  The  wind  blew  dust  and papers  around  his  feet.  Inside  he  found  himself  in  the  alarming  and  dreary  at-  mosphere  of  wrongdoing.  It  was  a  pas-  sage  into  a  world  at  which  he  had  been  granted  merely  a  squint-that  area  of  violence  he  glimpsed  when  he  spread  newspapers  on  the  porch  floor  before  he  painted  the  screens.  &quot;ROSLYN  MAN  SHOOTS  WIFE  AND  FIVE  CHILDREN.  MURDERED  CHILD  FOUND  IN  FUR-  NACE.&quot;  They  had  all  been  here,  and  had  left  in  the  air  a  palpable  smell  of  their  bewilderment  and  dismay,  their  claims  to  innocence.  He  was  led  to  an  elevator  and  taken  up  six  flights.  The  policeman  said  nothing.  He  was  breath-  " b"ing  heavily.  Asthma?  Coverly  won-  dered.  Excitement?  Haste?  &quot;Do  you  have  asthma?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;'You  answer  the  questions,&quot;  the  po-  liceman  said.  He  led  Coverly  down  a  corridor  like  the  corridor  in  some  depressing  school-  house  and  put  him  in  a  room  no  bigger  than  a  closet,  where  there  was  a  wooden  table,  a  chair,  a  glass  of  water,  and  a  questionnaire.  'The  policeman  shut  the  door,  and  Coverly  sat  down  and  looked  at  the  questions.  Are  you  the  head  ofa  household?  he  was  asked.  Are  you  divorced?  Wid-  owed?  Separated?  How  many  tele-  vision  sets  doyou  own?  How  many  cars?  Do  you  have  a  current  passport?  How  often  do  you  take  a  bath?  Are  you  a  college  graduate?  High  school?  Gram-  mar  school?  Do  you  know  the  meaning  of  &quot;marsupial,&quot;  &quot;seditious,&quot;  &quot;recon-  dite,&quot;  &quot;dialectical  materialism&quot;?  Is  your  house  heated  by  oil?  Gast  Coal?  How  many  rooms?  If  you  were  forced  to  debase  the  American  flag  vs.  the  Holy  Bible,  which  would  be  your  choice?  Are  you  in  favor  of  the  federal  income  tax?  Do  you  believe  in  the  International  Communist  Conspiracy?  Do  you  love  your  mother?  Are  you  afraid  of  light-  ning?  Are  you  for  the  continuation  of  atmospheric  bomb  testing?  Do  you  have  a  savings  account?  Checking  account?  W  hat  is  your  total  indebtedness?  Is  your  house  mortgaged?  If  you  are  a  man,  would  you  classify  your  sexual  organs  as  being  size  1,  2,3,  or  4?  What  is  your  religious  affiliation?  Do  you  believe  John  Foster  Dulles  is  in  Heaven?  Hell?  Lim-  bo?  Do  you  often  entertain?  Are  you  often  entertained?  Do  you  consider  yourself  to  be  liked?  Well  liked?  Pop-  ular?  Are  the  following  men  living  or  dead:  John  Maynard  Keynes.  Norman  Vincent  Peale.  Karl  Marx.  Oscar  Wilde.  Jack  Dempsey.  Do  you  say  your  prayers  each  night?  ...  Coverly  attacked  these  questions  and  there  were  thousands  of  them-  with  the  intentness  ofa  guilty  sinner.  He  felt  that  if  he  answered  them  honestly,  the  self-profile  that  emerged  would  de-  serve  absolution.  He  had  given  his  watch  to  the  thief,  and  had  no  idea  of  how  long  it  took  him  to  fill  out  the  questionnaire.  When  he  was  done,  he  shouted,  &quot;Hullo.  I'm  finished.  Let  me  out  of  here.&quot;  He  tried  the  door  and  found  it  open.  The  corridor  was  empty.  It  was  night,  and  the  window  at  the  end  of  the  hall  showed  a  dark  sky.  He  carried  his  questionnaire  to  the  elevator  and  rang.  As  he  stepped  out  of  the  elevator  on  the  street  floor,  he  saw  a  policeman  sitting  at  a  desk.  He  seemed  jovial  enough.  &quot;I've  answered  all  the  questions,&quot;  Coverly  said.  &quot;What  do  I  do  now?&quot;  47     &quot;Go  home,&quot;  the  policeman  said.  &quot;I  suppose  you  want  some  money?&quot;  &quot;I  do,&quot;  Coverly  said.  &quot;You're  all  getting  a  hundred  from  the  insurance  company,&quot;  the  policeman  said.  &quot;You  can  put  in  a  claim  later  if  you've  lost  more.&quot;  He  counted  out  ten  ten-dollar  bills  and  looked  at  his  watch.  &quot;The  [REDACTED]  train  comes  through  in  about  twenty  minutes.  'There's  a  cab-  stand  at  the  corner.  I  don't  suppose  you'll  want  to  fly  again  for  a  while.  None  of  the  others  did.&quot;  &quot;Have  they  all  finished?&quot;  Coverly  asked.  &quot;We're  holding  a  few,&quot;  the  man  said.  &quot;Well,  thank  you,&quot;  Coverly  said,  and  walked  out  of  the  building  into  a  dark  street  in  the  town  of  West  Franklin,  feeling  in  its  dust,  heat,  distant  noise,  and  the  anonymity  of  its  colored  lights  the  essence  of  his  aloneness.  There  was  a  newsstand  at  the  corner,  and  a  cab  parked  there.  He  bought  a  paper.  &quot;DIS-  QUALIFIED  PILOT  ROBS  JET  IN  MID-  AIR,&quot;  he  read.  &quot;A  Great  Plane  Robbery  took  place  at  4:16  this  afternoon  over  the  Rockies  ...&quot;  He  got  into  the  cab  and  said,  &quot;You  know,  I  was  in  that  plane  robbery  this  afternoon.&quot;  &quot;You're  the  sixth  fare  who's  told  me  that,&quot;  the  driver  said.  &quot;Where  to?&quot;  &quot;'The  station,&quot;  Coverly  said. "