 AN  EVENING  VITH  VIRGINIA  YOOLF  NE  day  nearly  thirty-one  years  O  ago,  the  telephone  rang  on  my  desk  at  the  London  Daily  Mail  and  a  voice  that  I  recognized  as  Vita  Sackville-West's  said,  &quot;Look  here,  Vir-  ginia  wants  to  see  your  paper  being  printed-do  you  think  you  could  ar-  range  it?  Perhaps  one  evening  next  week?&quot;  It  seemed  to  me  very  odd  that  Vir-  ginia  W  oolf  should  want  to  see  the  mass-  circulation  Daily  Mail  being  put  to  bed,  but  it  could  be  arranged,  and  easily.  People  were  always  trooping  round  the  plant-I  have  forgotten  how  many  thousands  of  copies  the  presses  spewed  out  in  an  hour,  but  it  impressed  them-  and  at  one  point  in  the  tour  a  linotype  operator  clicked  out  their  names  in  mir-  ror  printing  on  silvery  slugs,  which  the  visitors  took  home  as  souvenirs  of  the  experience.  'The  man  who  arranged  the  tours  of  the  plant  said,  &quot;Spell  it,&quot;  when  I  told  him  the  name  of  our  guest,  and  he  made  no  comment  when  Idid.  &quot;'The  Waves&quot;  had  appeared  a  few  months  before.  It  had  sold  about  seven  thousand  copies.  At  nine  o'clock  on  the  night  Miss  Sackville-West  and  I  had  agreed  on,  we  met  in  my  office.  It  would  have  seemed  peculiar  anyhow,  because  I  was  seldom  there  at  that  time,  unless  some  world  crisis  convulsed  the  newspaper;  causing  even  feature  editors  to  rejig  the  pages  they  had  passed  several  hours  before.  So  to  me  the  whole  evening  had  an  unreal  quality.  But  there  they  were,  perched  round  the  room  like  unfamiliarnight  birds:  Vita  Sackville-West,  tall,  in-  tensely  handsome,  wearing  her  usual  long,  dangling  earrings  and  smoking  through  a  paper  cigarette  holder;  Leon-  ard  Woolf,  a  dark,  brooding  man  with  aggressive  eyebrows;  and  [REDACTED]  Woolf,  recalling  the  moon  in  the  day-  time  sky-ethereal,  bone-pale,  the  eyes  set  deep  in  the  skull.  She  was  fifty,  but  age  had  nothing  to  do  with  her  appear-  ance;  she  must  have  looked  like  that  for-  ever.  You  might  as  well  show  those  clattering  presses  to  a  ghost,  I  thought,  but  she  had  asked  to  be  shown  them,  so  when  the  guide  joined  us,  we  walked  out  through  the  newsroom,  where  a  few  late  men  in  shirtsleeves  pecked  at  their  typewriters,  untouched  cups  of  tea  standing  sadly  on  their  desks.  Mrs.  Woolf  put  on  a  pair  of  steel-  rimmed  spectacles  and  looked  at  this  scene  with  intense  interest.  We  in-  spected  everything,  down  to  the  circle  of  telephone  booths  in  the  center  of  the  paper-littered  bull  pen.  On  the  wall  of  one  of  the  booths  somebody  had  chalked  the  notice  &quot;Reporters  who  have  been  eating  biscuits  are  requested  not  to  ask  for  Chichester.&quot;  She  read  it  and  said,  &quot;I  suppose  that  is  necessary  when  one  must  telephone  to  Chichester  so  often,&quot;  and  we  squeezed  through  the  reporters'  desks  on  the  way  to  the  lift.  She  spoke  slowly  and  quietly,  but  with  great  au-  thority,  as  if  she  were  accustomed  to  having  her  words  attentively  weighed.  She,  too,  seemed  to  weigh  carefully  any  words  spoken  in  her  presence,  which  made  me  very  nervous-mine,  I  was  unhappily  sure,  would  be  found  want-  ing-and  when  she  regarded  me  grave-  ly  over  the  topsof  those  steel  rims,  I  could  only  tell  well-worn  stories,  such  as  the  one  about  Lord  Northcliffe's  yes  man,  who  took  his  hat  off  every  time  he  had  to  speak  to  the  Chief  on  the  tele-  phone.  This  struck  her  as  not  at  all  fun-  ny  but  natural  and  rather  sad,  and  she  removed  her  spectacles  and  buried  them  deep  in  her  large  and  notvery  new  black  handbag.  In  the  composing  room,  she  bur-  rowed  in  the  bag  and  fished  the  spec-  tacles  out  again.  The  floor  hummed  and  throbbed  like  a  ship's  deck  with  the  pulsing  of  the  machines  below.  Men  in  inky  white  aprons  bent  solicitously  over  the  steel  benches,  running  a  finger  down  a  corrected  galley  proof,  pulling  black,  inked  slugs  out  with  tweezers  and  re-  placing  them  with  bright  new  ones,  locking  the  forms  fast  and  neatly,  lean-  ing  over  the  stone  like  surgeonsover  the  operating  table,  under  the  white  over-  head  lights.  Mrs.  Woolf  stood  beside  a  printer,  peered  at  the  forms,  and  quickly  reada  paragraph  or  two  back  to  him,  even     though  the  type  was  upside  down.  He  was  delighted,  and  said,  &quot;We  don't  often  get  ladies  coming  in  from  outside  who  can  do  that.&quot;  &quot;Ah,  but  you  see,  I'm  a  printer  my-  self,&quot;  she  said,  smiling  briefly  at  himand  evidently  pleased  that  her  little  trick  had  been  such  a  success.  Watching  one  of  the  linotype  opera-  tors  clacking  away  at  his  machine,  she  asked  such  a  stream  of  complex  ques-  tions  that  the  man  stopped  work  to  at-  tend  to  the  conversation.  Although  both  had  to  shout,  because  of  the  chattering  of  the  other  linotypes,  it  was  difficult  to  hear  what  they  said.  Her  spectacles  kept  slipping  down  her  delicately  jutting  nose,  and  from  time  to  time  she  pushed  them  up  again  in  order  to  examine  some  part  of  the  machine,  which  went  on  picking  up  thetype  letter  by  letter,  un-  cannily,  as  if  by  hand,  and  putting  it  in  its  place  in  the  line.  Then  she  would  shoot  some  more  questions.  Leonard  Woolf  took  a  more  detached  interest;  Vita  told  me  afterward  that  he  was  bored.  We  were  there  for  a  good  fifteen  minutes,  at  the  end  of  which  I  noticed  that  the  operator  did  not  hand  Mrs.  Woolf  the  usual  slug  with  the  visitor's  name  on  it,  straight  from  the  machine,  with  the  warning  &quot;Mind,  now-it's  hot.&quot;  Thishad  been  a  talk  between  pro-  fessionals.  It  was  quieter  where  the  headlines  were  being  set,  and  here  again  we  waited  patiently  while  [REDACTED]  poked  about  among  the  Caslon,  Cameo,  and  Goudy  Bold,  asking  how  many  points  the  most  sensational  headlines  ran  to  (seventy-two),  and  what  had  been  the  last  event  to  evoke  them?  Neither  the  guide  nor  I  could  quite  remember,  but  we  thought  it  must  havebeen  when  Lindbergh  flew  the  Atlantic.  I  suppose  it  was  at  about  this  time  that  I  realized  that  my  impression  of  Mrs.  Woolf  had  changed  since  the  beginning  of  the  eve-  ning.  'There  seemed  to  be  little  that  was  wan  or  mothlike,  delicate  or  remote,  about  her  now.  Her  long,  slender  fin-  gers  were  smudged  with  black  ink,  and  her  behavior  that  ofa  mechanically  minded  man.  When  I  asked  if  she  was  tired,  she  said,  rather  sharply,  &quot;I  want  to  see  it  all-I'm  interested  in  exactly  how  things  are  done  here,&quot;  and  plunged  into  the  dark,  gas-smelling  den  where  the  plates  corroded  in  their  acid  baths.  Several  procedures  later,  we  stood  be-  neath  one  ofthe  great  presses,  in  the  depths  of  the  building.  A  man  edged  along  the  catwalk,  probing  about  with  an  oily  rag.  'Then  he  jumped  down,  and  slowly  the  huge  machine  began  to   roll.  Broad  bands  of  newsprint  flowed  over  the  pounding  rollers,  taking  the  im-  prints  of  the  Soho  murder  story,  the  crossword  puzzle,  the  dog-race  results,  the  underwear  advertisements,  the  let-  ters  from  the  lovelorn.  The  four  of  us  stood  there,  with  our  guide,  looking  very  small,  drowned  in  the  rushing  of  the  river  of  paper.  As  we  left  the  plant  on  our  way  to  supper  at  the  Jardin  des  Gourmets,  one  ofthe  printers  from  the  composing  room  who  had  come  out  on  the  sidewalk  to  takethe  air  grabbed  my  arm,  drew  me  aside,  and  asked,  &quot;Who's  that  lady  that  was  asking  all  the  questions  up  there?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED]  Woolf,&quot;  I  answered.  &quot;That's  her  husband,  and  they  run  the  Hogarth  Press.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  he  said  in  a  disappointed  voice,  &quot;Books.&quot;