 b"BASKETBALL  players,  years  ago,  B  used  to  spend  hours  telling  about  the  weird  places  where  they  had  played  the  game.  They  played  in  dance  halls  under  ceilings  they  could  touch  with  their  elbows.  They  played  on  the  stages  of  theatres  where  they  could  hip  one  another  into  the  orchestra  pit.  They  played  in  poorly  lighted  warehouses,  taking  shots  that  would  disappear  into  upper  blackness  and  emerge  great  dis-  tances  away  to  drop  without  touching  the  rim.  The  game  is  glossy  and  stand-  ardized  now.  Courts  are  neat,  bright  rectangles  in  the  middle  of  floors  big  enough  for  golf.  The  players  are  the  best  ever,  but  dull.  The  old  stories  are  seldom  heard.  I  have  one,  but  until  recently  I  had  never  come  right  out  with  it,  for  fear  of  being  taken  for  my  grandfather.  I  saw  my  chance  asI  listened  to  a  fellow  I  know  talking  about  the  days  when  he  played  for  a  grocery  store  in  the  Pacific  Northwest.  He  had  been  a  steady,  &quot;set-  'em-up&quot;  guard  on  the  Melrose  Market  five.  One  night,  he  said,  Melrose  played  in  a  densecloud  of  Bull  Durham  in  the  mess  hall  at  the  [REDACTED]  State  Peni-  tentiary,  in  Walla  Walla.  Here  was  a  man  I  could  talk  to.  &quot;That's  nothing,&quot;  I  said  to  him.  &quot;I  once  played  basketball  in  the  Tower  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  I  was  lying,as  a  matter  of  fact,  but  the  truth  is  so  close  to  this  particular  lie  that  I  didn't  mind  telling  it.  One  season,  during  the  middle  nineteen-fif-  ties,  I  was  a  member  of  the  basketball  team  at  [REDACTED]  University.  I  had  come  there,  after  finishing  Princeton,  to  read  English  literature,  and  I  absorbed  a  fair  part  of  it  in  the  buses  that  carried  us  all  over  the  Midlands  to  play  our  various  matches.  At  first,  when  Iar-  rived  in  [REDACTED]  and  began  looking  through  the  University  handbook  for  some  sort  of  team  to  play  on,  I  decided  against  basketball  without  so  much  as  looking  into  the  matter.  I  thought  that  since  basketball  had  been  invented  by  an  American,  the  [REDACTED]  team  would  obviously  be  just  a  group  of  American  students;  if  there  were  any  scheduled  games  at  all,  they  would  be  played  against  soldiers  and  airmen  at  American  bases.  I  wouldn't  have  need-  ed  to  cross  the  ocean  for  that.  So,  with  some  inconsistency,  I  went  out  for  la-  crosse,  the  game  invented  by  American  Indians.  I  had  foreknowledge  that  it  was  played  in  [REDACTED]  by  Englishmen,  but  it  turned  out  that  they  don't  play  lacrosse  the  way  we  do  in  the  United " b"States.  It  is  a  non-contact  sport  in  Eng-  land,  with  no  pads  or  helmets-all  ballet  and  stickwork,  like  American  girls'  lacrosse.  In  the  first  scrimmage,  my  own  stick  forgot  itself  and  disassem-  bled  the  lower  jaw  of  a  chap  from  Jesus  College.  That  was  considered  a  poorshowing.  I  soon  decided  to  play  basketball  after  all.  The  building  we  played  in  was  on  the  edge  of  the  University  cricket  grounds.  It  served  as  a  gymnasium,  but  the  lettering  over  the  entryway  said  &quot;Department  of  Human  Ecology.&quot;  I  walked  in  expecting  to  see  thirty  thou-  sand  dollars'  worth  of  Fulbright  schol-  arships  running  around  trying  to  keep  warm.  Sure  enough,  the  first  person  to  introduce  himself  wasBob  Pinckert,  of  New  York.  The  second  was  Russ  ['  Moro,  also  of  New  York.  But  then  I  met  David  Thomas,  Scotsman;  Howard  Purnell,  Welshman;  Tudor  Johnston,  Canadian;  Dye  Thomas,  Welshman;  Michael  Blackburn,  Englishman;  Den-  nis  Cope,  Englishman;  Joe  Romero,  Filipino;  and  Dennis  Solomon,  from  [REDACTED].  Before  the  season  ended,  we  even  had  a  man  from  Barbados.  I  was  only  the  third  American.  From  Hampshire  to  Derbyshire,  Sus-  sex  to  Shropshire,  we  went  wherever  the  whim  of  our  club  secretary  took  us.  Surprisingly,  potential  opponents  were  everywhere.  'There  is  a  basketball  club  in  nearly  every  town  in  [REDACTED].  The  game  was  introduced  there  through  the  Y.M.C.A.  movement  in  1934,  the  Sec-  ond  World  War  stimulated  its  growth,  and  now  there  is  an  Amateur  Basket-  ball  Association  and  even  a  month-  ly  magazine,  Basketball.  R.  William  Jones,  the  present  secretary  of  the  In-  ternational  Amateur  Basketball  Associ-  ation,  which  regulates  and  helps  stand-  ardize  the  game  all  over  the  world,  is  British.  Basketball  is  played  in  all  of  [REDACTED]'s  armed  services.  On  the  site  of  [REDACTED]'s  immense  Crystal  Palace,  a  new  hall  for  basketball  is  now  under  construction.  Newspapers  list  basket-  ball  scores.  The  game,  in  short,  is  Eng-  lish  now.  And  why  not?  It  is  the  ideal  team  sport  for  the  world's  foremost  indoor  nation.  'The  first  actual  basketball  I  saw,  as  manufactured  in  [REDACTED],  was  a  dis-  turbing  sight.  I  suppose  I  was  expecting  at  least  a  Voit  Enduro  ball  out  of  a  U.  S.  war-surplus  store.  'The  English  ball  was  more  like  a  surplus  mine.  Precisely,  it  was  built  much  as  a  soccer  ball  is  built,  with  the  same  thick  leather,  the  same  jigsaw  quantity  of  small  collected  parts.  Instead  of  going  through  the  net  with  a  swish,  it  would  sometimes  tear  the  net   " b'off.  Dribbling  was  difficult,  since  the  ball,  to  saythe  least,  bounced  unevenly.  There  was  nothing  in  the  English  rule  book  requiring  that  a  basketball  be  that  way,  so  I  sent  back  to  Princeton  for  a  contribution  to  [REDACTED]  University,  which  was  swiftly  provided:  three  Spald-  ing  Top-Flite  basketballs,  the  type  used  by  nearly  all  American  colleges  and  professional  teams-precision  items  that  would  bounce  with  obedience.  Unfortunately,  there  was  no  send-  ing  home  for  a  new  gymnasium.  The  Department  of  Human  Ecology  was  housed  in  a  new  building,  just  two  years  old  then,  but  in  the  developmental  chronology  of  American  basketball  it  might  have  been  the  best  new  gym  of  1922.  Exercise  bars  stuck  out  from  solid  oak  walls  that  were  just  eight  inches  from  the  sidelines.  The  backboards,  with  their  attached  baskets,  were  screwed  into  end  walls  of  yellow  firebrick,  so  that  after  a  driving  layup  a  player,  un-  able  to  stop  quickly  enough,  often  col-  lided  with  the  brick.  Naturally,  these  players  were  almost  always  our  visitors,  since  no  one  on  the  [REDACTED]  squad,  unless  carried  away  by  excitement,  would  think  of  driving  hard  toward  the  basket  even  if  he  had  a  clear  opening.  We  would  usually  stand  back  and  waft  long  one-handers  from  safe  distances.  We  lost  only  one  game  in  our  own  gym  during  five  months  of  steady  matches  with  other  universities,  clubs  from  various  towns  and  cities,  and  serv-  ice  teams.  But  for  all  the  advantage  of  the  Spalding  basketballs  and  the  yellow  firebrick  (which  our  opponents  never  even  commented  on),  I  nonetheless  think  it  remarkable  that  we  managed  to  run  up  winning  scores  consistently  in  the  sixties  and  seventies  when  very  few  shots  were  risked  from  distances  under  fifteen  feet.  In  the  first  round  of  the  annual  tournament-the  some-  what  inexactequivalent  of  the  Ameri-  can  N.C.  [REDACTED]  championships-we  were  hosts  to  a  teamfrom  Corby,  in  Lin-  colnshire,  and  beat  them  100-32.  But  the  next  and,  for  us,  final  round  was  the  one  game  we  lost  at  [REDACTED]-  to  the  U.  S.  Navy  teamfrom  Grosvenor  Square.  We  lost  a  good  number  of  games  played  away  from  [REDACTED],  since  conditions,  including  the  size  of  the  court,  tended  to  favor  the  home  team  everywhere.  While  our  gym  was  prob-  ably  the  newest  in  [REDACTED],  it  was  also  in  all  probability  the  smallest.  It  was  possible,  though  rarely  attempted,  to  complete  a  solo  fast-break  from  one  end  of  the  court  to  the  other  with  a  single  high-parabola  dribble.  Hence,  we  were  lost  on  the  big  courts  at  places  like' b"Ruislip,  Loughborough,  and  Oxford.  Had  we  played  Oxford  at  [REDACTED],  we  might  have  kept  the  score  close,  but  I  think  we  would  have  lost  anyway.  Whereas  we  were  an  essentially  English  team  with  strong  international  over-  tones,  Oxford's  basketball  club  was  an  exclusive  clique  of  Americans.  We  were  a  sporting  group.  We  always  stopped  off  for  a  pint  of  mild  after  practice.  The  Oxford  team  was  homogeneously  com-  posed  of  Rhodes  Scholars,  all  of  whom  were  dedicated  to  abstemiousness,exer-  cise,  and  victory.  They  played  hard,  cleanly,  and  competently,  and  one  got  the  feeling  that  they  were  representing  a  theological  seminary.  Since  Oxford  hadno  basketball  court  of  its  own,  its  players  used  a  floor  at  a  nearby  American  airbase.  It  was  in  an  immense  hangar,  heated  by  a  jet  engine  that  was  mounted  in  the  wall  at  one  end.  The  engine  drove  a  devastating  blast  of  superheated  air  onto  the  court.  Moving  toward  it-even  if  you  were  in  the  clear  on  a  fast-break-you  were  wise  to  stop  and  take  a  jump  shot  twenty  feet  away.  The  intense  heat  was  spent,  however,  long  before  it  reached  the  oth-  er  end  of  the  court.  You  could  actually  see  your  breath  in  the  cold  end.  As  a  team,  unfortunately,  we  were  cold  in  both  ends.  We  lost  miserably.  At  the  [REDACTED]  School  of  Economics,  we  ran  into  another  kind  of  obstacle-  prejudice.  It  seemed  to  be  both  intra-  national  and  international:  an  odium  for  [REDACTED]  and  a  manic  dislike  of  Americans.  Prejudice  can  be  worth  quite  a  few  points  in  a  basketball  game,  especially  if  the  most  actively  prejudiced  person  is  the  referee.  Except  in  tourna-  ments  and  other  vital  events,  most  basketball  games  in  [REDACTED]  then  were  _  officiated  by  agents  of  the  home  team.  The  referee  supplied  by  L.S.E.  was,  in  my  opinion,  as  prejudiced  a  man  as  has  ever  blown  a  whistle.  In  a  normal  game,  the  L.S.E.  team  could  have  been  beaten  handily,  but  we  spent  most  of  the  eve-  ning  watching  L.S.E.  players  miss  foul  shots.  They  made  enough  to  win,  how-  ever.  I  was  fouled  out  of  the  game  in  the  first  half.  So  were  Dye  Thomas,  Pinckert,  Romero,  Solomon,  and  Moro.  I  drew  one  foul  standing  still  with  my  hands  on  my  hips,  an  attitude  I  had  assumed  in  order  to  demonstrate  that  I  was  making  no  contact  whatever  with  the  man  I  was  supposedly  guarding.  The  referee  would  simply  blow  the  whistle  and  point  at  you  with  pleasure,  his  eyes  sparking.  I  may  be  prejudiced,  but  I'm  sure  he  thought  we  were  all  either  Americans  or  peers  of  the  realm.  To  the  unbiassed  eye,  the  [REDACTED]  basketball  club  presented  a  truly  curious" b"sociological  phenomenon.  Almost  no  one  played  basketball  according  to  his  national  characteristics.  'The  English  members  of  the  squad,  for  example,  were  anything  but  reserved;  they  were  outrageously  flamboyant  in  their  style  of  play,  rifling  flat-trajectory  shots  from  forty  feet  out  as  if  they  were  throwing  darts,  sniffing  through  the  rule  book  to  discover  obscurities  like  the  air  dribble,  even  giving  one  another  a  boost  in  pur-  suit  of  rebounds.  The  Americans-  Moro,  Pinckert,  and  I-showed  the  least  Yankee  ingenuity.  We  were  less  inventive  because  we  had  seengreat  American  players  play.  We  slavishly  imitated  the  controlled  skills  of  these  stars,  just  as  most  American  basketball  players  do.  The  Welshmen  were  by  far  the  most  businesslike  of  the  lot  of  us-  reliable,  steady,  work-horse  ballplayers,  always  cold  sober  (our  Welsh  Thomas  was  Dye,  not  Dylan).  These  paradoxes  did  not  prevail  throughout  the  squad.  Our  Scot  did  indeed  have  an  eruptive  temper,  and  the  Caribbeans  were  un-  questionably  languid.  Our  Canadian,  however,  was  fantastically  out  of  char-  acter.  On  the  English  courts,  most  of  which  were  cold,  he  was  forever  blow-  ing  on  his  hands,  and  games  had  some-  times  gone  well  into  the  second  quarter  before  he  was  fully  warmed  up.  URING  the  Christmas  vacation,  I  spent  a  fortnight  in  [REDACTED],  riding  the  high  buses-once,  inevitably,  to  the  Tower.  What  American  youth  does  not  yearn  to  see  the  Tower  of  [REDACTED]?  It  is  to  poisoning,  hanging,  beheading,  regicide,  and  torture  what  Yankee  Stadium  is  to  baseball.  The  two  young  sons  of  Edward  IV  were  murdered  in  the  Tower  by  their  uncle,  King  Richard  III.  The  Duke  of  Clar-  ence  was  drowned  there  in  a  tub  full  of  Cypriot  wine.  King  Henry  VI  was  hacked  to  death  in  the  same  turret  where  the  crown  jewels  of  [REDACTED]  are  now  kept.  Sir  Thomas  More  was  a  prisoner  in  the  Tower  before  he  was  led  outside  the  walls  onto  Tower  Hill  and  beheaded  publicly.  In  private,  Anne  Boleyn  knelt  to  the  sword  and  Lady  Jane  Grey  to  the  axe,  at  a  beheading  block  within  the  walls.  Standing  there  beside  that  block  on  an  overcast  December  morning,  as  one  ofa  group  of  tourists,  I  happened  to  see  that  my  feet  were  straddling  a  white  line  painted  on  the  asphalt  of  the  parade  ground  that  adjoins  Waterloo  Barracks,  one  of  the  substructures  within  the  walls.  Our  guide,  a  Yeoman  Warder,  or  Beefeater,  in  medieval  costume,  was  probably  saying  that  the  barracks  were  built  in  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth" b"century  and  arethe  youngest  of  the  Tower's  substructures.  .  ..  I  was  not  listening  to  him.  'The  white  line  made  a  large  rectangle  in  the  middle  of  the  parade  ground.  There  was  a  circle  in  the  center  and  at  each  end  the  startling  outlinesof  basketball  foul  lanes.  &quot;Any  questions?&quot;  the  guide  asked.  &quot;Who  plays  basketball  here?&quot;  I  said.  There  must  have  been  thirty  people  on  the  tour,  and  they  all  turned  around  to  look  at  me.  Some  of  them  laughed  nervously.  I  thought  for  a  moment  that  I  had  imagined  the  court.  But  then  the  guide  explained  that  the  Tower  is  gar-  risoned  by  Her  Majesty's  Royal  Fusil-  iers.  They  stay  in  shape  by  playing  basketball  during  non-visiting  hours.  When  I  returned  to  [REDACTED],  I  instantly  gothold  of  the  secretary  of  the  basketball  club  and  urged  him  to  write  to  the  Royal  Fusiliers  and  set  up  a  match.  He  said  I  was  daft;  but  he  wrote  the  letter.  The  Royal  Fusiliers  respond-  ed  at  once.  They  had  a  building  in  which  they  ordinarily  played  their  matches,  but  they  were  delighted  that  [REDACTED]  University  would  like  to  play  them  in  their  Tower.  It  was  the  last  match  of  our  season,  toward  the  end  of  the  Lent  term.  A  Beefeater  led  us  through  a  gate  in  the  Tower  walls.  He  was  excited  about  the  game,  talking  animatedly  as  he  walked,  kicking  ravensout  of  his  path  and  prais-  ing  the  sharpshooting  skills  of  the  Royal  Fusiliers.  It  was  a  wonderful  day-the  first  blue  sky  over  [REDACTED]  in  seven  weeks,  he  said.  The  captain  of  the  Fusiliers  met  us  outside  Waterloo  Bar-  racks  and  invited  us  in  for  tea.  He  said  a  lorry  would  be  coming  directly  with  the  baskets  and  backboards,  mounted  on  steel  poles.  When  the  lorry  finally  came,  we  were  out  on  the  parade  ground  dressed  and  ready,  the  Royal  Fusiliers  in  dark  uniforms,  [REDACTED]  in  pale  [REDACTED]  blue.  We  all  cheered  its  arrival.  We  were  getting  cold,  just  standing  there  smoking  and  passing  basketballs  around  with  nothing  to  shoot  at.  Pinckert  set  a  basketball  on  the  beheading  block.  Russ  Moro  lec-  tured  the  English  members  of  the  squad  on  the  history  of  the  Tower,  whose  pinnacles  soared  above  us  in  the  miracu-  lously  clear  air.  The  crow  ly  composed  of  Beefeaters  and  ravens-  was  getting  bored.  The  Beefeaters  were  all  but  clapping  their  hands  in  unison,  and  the  ravens  were  starting  to  leave.  The  lorry  backedup  to  the  footof  one  foul  lane  and  stopped.  Two  soldiers  got  up  on  the  tailgate.  'They  shoved  the  heavy  steel  mounting  out  the  back  end  and  tilted  it  upward  until  its  twin  poles  were  secured  in  casings  embedded  in " b"the  asphalt.  There  at  last  stood  the  phenomenon  I  had  been  waiting  to  see,  a  basketball  hoop,  net,  and  backboard  rising  up  in  the  very  center  of  the  Tower  of  [REDACTED].  In  moments,  we  would  be  sending  long  one-handed  shots  arcing  past  the  high  battlements,  adding  a  wild  footnote  to  the  history  of  the  game.  Meanwhile,  the  lorry  driver  prepared  to  move  off  to  the  other  end  of  the  court.  After  a  great  gnashing  of  gears,  he  started  up  with  a  violent  jolt-  and  surged  backward  rather  than  for-  ward,  smashing  into  the  support  poles  of  the  erected  basket  and  snapping  them  off  at  the  ground.  The  soldiers  didn't  even  bother  to  set  up  the  other  basket.  It  was  just  jolly  bad  luck,  that  was  all.  There  was  a  lot  of  swearing  on  the  part  of  the  Fusiliers,  and  the  lorry  driver  had  to  take  considerable  mockery.  For  my  part,  I  would  have  settled  for  an  improvised  half-court  game  there  in  the  Tower,  but  that  apparently  did  not  cross  the  minds  of  our  hosts,  who  had  never  completely  understood  why  we  wanted  to  play  in  the  Tower  in  the  first  place.  We  all  climbed  into  the  lorry  and  were  driven  to  a  sports  hall  near  Tower  Hill.  It  had  a  large  basketball  floor.  Light  bulbs  hung  from  the  ceiling  in  steel  cages.  The  windows  were  sheathed  with  steel  latticework,  and  some  natural  light  was  entering  through  filters  of  coal  dust.  &quot;There  now,  chaps,  this  is  more  like  it  anyway,  isn't  it?&quot;  said  the  captain  of  the  Fusiliers  We  all   agreed.  Her  Majesty's  Royal  Fusiliers  were  splendid  fellows,  and  they  were  anxious  that  we  enjoy  our  visit  with  them.  We  would  have  been  uncharitable  to  admit  our  disappointment,  but  the  ultimate  score  of  the  game  was  prob-  I  ably  an  indirect  expression  of  it-Cam-  The  fourth'  bridge  95,  Royal  Fusiliers  42.  It  was  Photograph  by  Hans  Namuth  o  the  worst  beheading  in  the  history  of the  Tower,  inside  or  outside  the  walls. "