 b"These  pungent  words,  uttered  so  fit-  tingly  by  the  Secretary  of  State,  will  surely  enter  the  history  books,  along  with  the  famous  remark  attributed  to  him  earlier,  during  the  Cuban  crisis,  Both  rank  with  the  great  creative  quota-  tions  that  epitomize  our  times.  The  President  himself  has  said  that  the  Ca-  nadian  caper,  as  he  calls  it  informal-  ly,  signifies  the  beginning  of  &quot;a  new  frontier  in  the  relations  between  North  and  South.&quot;  And  the  Secretary's  quip  marked  both  the  turning  point  of  Operation  Snowball  and  the  first  qualitative  change  in  the  dimensions  of  the  Cold  War  since  its  inception  back  in  1927.  (Most  so-called  &quot;experts&quot;  date  the  beginning  of  the  Cold  War  as  1945-a  naive  and  dangerous  folly  that  will  shortly  be  unmasked  in  this  magazine,  in  the  next  issue,  or  possibly  sooner.)  As  once  before,  a  handful  ofcool  men  held  [REDACTED]'s  fate  in  their  fingers  for  nearly  a  week  as  they  steered  the  submarine  of  state  under  the  perilous  icecap  of  Arctic  war.  As  before,  we  can  best  understand  the  true  significance  of  their  deliberations  by  concentrating  on  a  few  seemingly  undramatic  incidents  that  took  place  before  and  during  that  fateful  week.  And,  as  before,  we  bring  you  the  inside  story  of  what  really  hap-  pened  and  how  the  decisions  were  made,  in  contrast  with  the  pathetically  garbled  and  highly  unsensationalized  reports  in  the  daily  press.  THREE  Men  Arounp  a  TABLE  By  one  of  those  strange  historical  co-  incidences  that  crop  up  so  frequently  in  the  affairs  of  men,  the  SuperExComm  had  been  brought  into  being  by  the  29  President  only  that  very  morning.  And  even  as  its  members  squinted  under  the  dim  light  at  the  awesome  stack  of  top-  secret  documents  piled  on  the  Presi-  dential  table  at  Chasen's,  the  telephone  rang-seven  times.  It  was  the  agreed-  upon  &quot;alert&quot;  signal,  commonly  called  &quot;shave  and  a  haircut,  two  bits,&quot;  used  only  for  national  emergencies.  (Our  re-  porting  of  this  signal,  we  reassure  our  readers,  constitutes  no  breach  of  se-  curity;  it  has  been  superseded  by  a  new,  less  complex  code  developed  by  a  C.I.A.  task  force.)  The  three  men  looked  at  each  other  with  anxious  expressions.  In  happier  days,  such  glances  had  been  part  of  other  moments  of  decision,  when  these  same  men  had  to  guess  whether  the  other  team's  quarterback  would  pass  or  would  run  with  the  ball.  The  President  slowly  picked  up  the  instrument.  It  was  the  First  Lady,  calling  from  the  winter  White  House  in  Beverly  Hills.  Their  conversation,  couched  in  deliberately  innocuous  terms,  is  reproduced  here  word  for  word:  Sur:  Remember  those  pictures  you  wanted?  Hx:  Yes.  You  have  them?  Sur:  Yes.  I've  looked  at  the  rushes, " b"and  I  think  you  were  right.  I'm  send-  ing  them  right  down.  Hr:  O.K.  SHE:  G'bye  now.  By  the  following  morning,  careful  analysis  of  the  films  confirmed  the  Presi-  dent's  worst  fears.  As  we  all  know  now  only  too  well,  the  little  &quot;ski  lodge&quot;  in  the  Laurentians,  which  had  been  pene-  trated  by  an  intrepid  C.I.A.  agent  (dis-  guised  as  a  skier  carrying  a  home-movie  camera),  was  in  fact  a  &quot;snow  cannon&quot;  emplacement  capable  of  pelting  New  York  and  New  England  with  more  than  a  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  deadly,  hard-packed  snowballs!  OrreEnsive  vs.  DErENsIvE  At  this  point,  a  short  digression  from  our  story  is  in  order,  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  may  have  been  confused  by  the  superficially  plausible  case  made  by  the  Canadians  and  their  fellow-travel-  lers  that  their  snow  cannon,  an  ingenious  military  adaptation  of  the  snow-making  machine  familiar  to  all  skiers,  was  a  &quot;defensive&quot;  weapon.  Their  argument  was  this:  (1)  The  cannons  were  short-  range  and  non-nuclear,  and  (2)  the  Canadian  government  had  been  &quot;legiti-  mately&quot;  concerned  about  the  possibility  of  a  [REDACTED]  invasion  ever  since  the  ill-fated  landing  of  the  Canadian  Freedom  Fighters  and  disaffected  coureurs  de  bois  below  the  Plains  of  Abraham  last  year.  The  Cuban  analogy  is,  of  course,  totally  false.  As  our  Ambassador  to  the  United  Nations  made  perfectly  clear  to  the  General  Assembly,  before  he  was  so  rudely  hooted  down  by  the  neutralists  and  their  puppet  majority,  the  fact  that  the  Canadian  devices  were  indeed  of  limited  range  proved  conclusively  that  they  would  be  directed  only  at  the  Unit-  ed  [REDACTED].  And  the  President  himself  pointed  out,  in  his  inspiring  speech  to  the  Canadian  refugees  at  the  [REDACTED]  guerrilla  training  camp  last  month,  ery  weapons  capable  of  being  used  against  the  United  [REDACTED]  were  &quot;fundamentally  offensive,  if  not  downright  insulting,  to  the  Free  [REDACTED];  Nor  does  the  Plains  of  Abraham  af-  fair  stand  close  scrutiny  as  an  excuse.  Apart  from  the  fact  that  [REDACTED]  involve-  ment  was  properly  limited  to  logistic  aid,  our  government  has  made  it  clear,  time  and  again,  that  we  intend  to  live  in  peace  as  good  neighbors  with  every  nation  in  the  world,  as  long  as  our  vital  interests  are  respected.  This  was  spelled  out  six  months  ago  in  the  President's  \xc2\xab  directive  to  the  Northern  Fleet  (to  in-  tercept  Canadian  imports  of  fishhooks,  ice  skates,  and  mink  traps)  and  was  reiterated  when  the  embargo  was  extended  to  all  other  merchandise  (ex-  cluding,  for  humane  considerations,  Hockey  pucks,  Band-Aids,  ear  muffs,  and  Coca-Cola).  Txs  Great  Desatre  So  much  for  the  Reds'  herrings.  The  agonizing  choicefacing  the  three  reso-  lute  men  as  they  resumed  their  delibera-  tions  came  down  to:  (1)  an  immediate  and  decisive  preventive  strike,  and  (2)  a  firmly  worded  warning.  It  is  easy,  after  the  fact  and  after  the  successful  termination  of  the  crisis,  to  see  what  the  decision  had  to  be.  But,  with  millions  of  lives  at  stake,  every  aspect  of  every  pro-  posal  had  to  be  carefully  examined-  and  with  no  margin  for  error.  Surprisingly,  it  was  the  forceful,  new-  ly  elected  junior  Senator  from  Massa-  chusetts  who  most  eloquently  argued  the  initial  case  for  the  &quot;soft&quot;  line.  His  chief  concern  was  forthe  adverse  political  effects  a  pre\xc3\xa9mptive  move  might  have  on  the  other  members  of  GAP,  the  Great  Atlantic  and  Pacific  Alliance  for  Free-  dom.  Adenauer  and  Franco,  he  stressed,  already  had  certain  difficulties  at  home,  and  there  was  no  assurance  that  unilat-  eral  556e6974656420537461746573n  action  might  not  create  similar  problems  for  our  four  other  al-  lies  (including  Bermuda),  staunch  as  they  were.  He  also  called  to  the  attention  of  the  group  the  costly  hazards  that  nuclear  contamination  would  create  for  the  Gloucester,  [REDACTED],  fishing  industry,  but  admitted  that  careful  selec-  tion  of  target  areas  could  minimize  this  danger.  Although  the  Attorney  General's  name  is  closely  associated  with  legally  &quot;correct&quot;  procedures,  in  international  as  well  as  domestic  law,  it  is  less  surpris-  ing  that  he  was  the  original  proponent  of  immediate  action.  His  attitude,  ac-  cording  to  one  of  the  participants,  who  cannot  be  named  here,  can  be  summed  up  as  &quot;Let's  get  it  over  with!&quot;  You  may  recall  that  he  took  the  same  posi-  tion  in  the  discussion  preceding  the  establishment  of  the  Federal  Rehabilita-  tion  Camps  for  Flabby  556e6974656420537461746573ns.  THE DECISION  During  the  debate,  the  President  listened  intently,  interrupting  occasion-  ally  with  pointed,  searching  questions.  At  times,  he  betrayed  impatience  by  tap-  ping  his  head  with  a  pencil,  a  character-  istically  charming  and  significant  ges-  ture.  As  the  discussion  rocked  and  rolled  through  the  small  hours  of  the  third  night,  it  became  apparent  that  a  twist-  ing  consensus  was  developing.  By  the  following  morning,  the  decision  had  evolved:  a  48-hour  ultimatum  to  Can-  ada  to  destroy  all  ski  lodges  known  or  suspected  to  be  equipped  with  snow-  making  machinery,  on  pain  of  immedi-  ate  massive  defensive  retaliation  by  the  United  [REDACTED].  No  time  was  wasted  in  implementing  the  decision.  A  meeting  of  all  five  mem-  bers  of  the  full  ExComm  was  called;  it  was  noted  by  a  non-admirer  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  that  he  raised  his  eyebrows  at  one  point  during  the  an-  nouncement  of  initial  implementary  steps.  (Although  the  Secretary  later  claimed  to  be  in  full  agreement  with  the  twisting  consensus,  we  have  it  on  unim-  peachable  authority  that  the  other  Ex-  " b"Comm  members  thought  he  was  chick-  en.)  As  our  informant  diplomatically  phrased  it,  ''There  always  Aas  to  be  one  sour  apple.&quot;  The  massive  machinery  of  govern-  ment  swung  smoothly  into  motion.  The  national  telecast  was  arranged,  the  speechwriters  got  to  work  instantly,  and  all  available  carbon  paper  was  requisitioned  for  the  duration  of  the  emergency.  (The  armed  forces  and  the  Post  Office  Department  were  also  alerted.)  Last,  but  byno  means  least,  the  C.O.P.A.  was  given  its  instruc-  tions.  This  little-known  but  hard-work-  ing  group-few  556e6974656420537461746573ns  even  know  that  its  initials  stand  for  &quot;Committee  for  Outgoing  Publicity  Adjustment&quot;-  serves  the  nation  in  a  unique  way.  Its  job  is  to  insure  that  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  people  are  kept  fully  informed,  by  so-called  &quot;leaks&quot;  and  briefings  to  responsible  or  otherwise  accredited  members  of  the  press  corps,  of  the  correctness  of  all  Presidential  decisions,  whatever  they  may  lead  to.  We  mention  this  only  be-  cause  the  accuracy  and  propriety  of  some  of  our  earlier  reports  have  been  unfairly  questioned  by  persons  unfamiliar  with  modern  procedures  in  556e6974656420537461746573n  gov-  ernment.  Tus  Cummax  The  rest,  of  course,  is  history.  As  the  deadline  approached,  it  became  clear  that  the  Canadian  government,  in  spite  of  its  offer  to  permit  neutral  inspection  of  all  unregistered  dog  sleds,  had  no  intention  of  relinquishing  its  aggressive  designs  against  the  United  [REDACTED].  &quot;The  Barber,&quot;  as  his  colleagues  now  jokingly  refer  to  the  Secretary  of  State,  made  the  colorful  remark  quoted  at  the  begin-  ning  of  this  account,  and  the  &quot;shave&quot;  was  administered-decisively,  effective-  ly,  and  with  vigor. "