 b"WHEN  they  need  technical  ad-  vice  in  films  about  the  Occupa-  tion,  they  often  send  forWilli.  There  are  other  Germans  in  [REDACTED]  with  memories  of  the  war,  but  they  are  un-  interested  or  too  busy.  The  students  are  too  young.  They  don't  know  any  of  the  marching  songs.  To  tell  the  truth,  these  young  people  cannot  be  depended  on  to  sing  and  march;  they  don't  take  to  it  seriously.  Willi,  whose  job  itis  to  drill  them  for  the  film,  loses  his  patience.  They  like  the  acting,  and  seeing  the  movie  stars,  and  clowning  around  in  uniform,  but  they  don't  give  their  best.  &quot;When  I  think  I  was  ready  to  die  for  you!&quot;  Willi  says.  Willi  is  short  and  thick  and  very  fair.  His  eyes  are  cornflower  blue.  The  lashes  are  stubby  and  nearly  invisible.  When  he  has  been  in  the  sun  all  day  trying  to  work  a  squad  of  silly  kids  into  some  sort  of  organized  endeavor,  the  whites  of  his  eyes  go  red  and  his  face  looks  as  if  he  had  dipped  it  in  wine.  Actually  he  never  touches  wine.  Another  thing  he  dis-  likes  is  cigarettes.  He  is  unhappy  when  he  sees  a  young  girl  smok-  ing.  In  the  old  days,  he  says-he  must  mean  in  his  puberty-health  was  glory  and  he  was  taught  something  de-  cent  about  girls.  Willi  was  a  prisoner  of  war  in  [REDACTED]  until  the  end  of  1948.  He  dreamed  of  home,  but  when  he  got  there  one  of  his  sisters  had  an  American  boy  friend  and  the  whole  family  were  happy  as  seals  around  a  rich  new  brother-in-law,  a  build-  er  in  Stuttgart.  Willi  thought,  The  French  had  us  four  years  but  didn't  learn  a  word  of  German,  and  if  one  of  them  could  stick  a  knife  in  our  back  he  did.  He  doesn't  like  the  French  better  than  he  does  the  Germans;  he  just  despises  them  less.  Back  home  was  the  ever-richer  brother-in-  law.  Willi  couldn't  fit  in,  and  presently  he  came  to  [REDACTED].  He  must  be  in  his  middle  thir-  ties  but  looks  twenty-five.  He  looks  his  age  when  he  is  puzzled,  or  doesn't  un-  derstand  what  took  place,  or  has  lost  control  of  a  situation-has  given  some-  one  else  the  upper  hand.  The  film  business  is  occasional,  but  an  economic  pillar.  He  is  paid  fairly  well  for  what  he  does.  He  sometimes  meets  a  girl  and  hopes  something  will  come  of  it-he  is  still  looking  for  that-but  he  has  never  been  sure  he  had  the  right  girl.  When  Willi  was  released  from  prison  camp,  and  after  he  became  dis-  gusted  with  home,  he  thought  he  might  join  the  Legion.  He  is  glad  he  didn't  now.  Willi's  friend  Ernst  did  join;  he  was  sick  of  being  a  prisoner  and  it  was  the  only  way  out.  They  often  talk  about  those  days  and  what  went  on.  Their  decorations  had  been  torn  from  them  by  enemy  soldiers  with  private  col-  lections,  but  Ernst  and  Willi  made  each  other  decorations  saying  &quot;Mother&quot;  and  &quot;Home  Soon&quot;  and  that  kind  of  thing.  Ernst  was  in  the  Legion  in  Indo-China  and  [REDACTED].  He  has  had  a  troubling life;  although  he  is  a  good  soldier,  he  has  all  his  life  been  part  of  a  defeated  army.  The  Legion  was  a  total  waste;  they  didn't  teach  him  a  trade.  Also,  they  are  slow  about  his  pension.  Ernst  is  in  [REDACTED]  waiting  for  the  pension.  It  begins  to  look  as  if  he  might  wait  forever.  Every  time  he  goes  to  the  pensions  office,  they  tell  him  a  document  is  missing  from  his  file.  When  he  comes  back  with  the  document,  they  say  he  has  come  on  the  wrong  day.  Ernst  is  going  to  be  in  trou-  ble  if  the  pension  doesn't  come  through  very  soon;  he  has  no  residence  permit  in  [REDACTED].  He  hasn't  been  given  one,  be-  cause  he  has  no  income,  no  fixed  domi-  cile,  and  no  trade.  The  wars  are  over;  Ernst  can  go  home.  He  doesn't  want  to  go  home.  If  he  leaves  [REDACTED],  he  is  sure  he  will  never  see  the  shadow  of  a  pension.  Everything  depends  on  his  turning  up  at  the  pensions  office  on  the  right  day  with  every  document  as-  sembled  in  the  file.  The  last  time  Willi  worked  on  a  film  hegot  a  small  part  for  Ernst.  It  wasn't  easy,  because  Ernst  is  brow  and  slight.  He  is  not  a  German  military  figure.  Willi  got  the  job  for  Ernst  by " b"saying  he  had  been  a  German  officer,  which  isn't  true.  He  was  too  young-  about  sixteen  when  he  was  taken  prison-  er  in  1944.  In  the  film,  Ernst  plays  an  S.S.  man  who  has  to  arrest  a  Jewish  cou-  ple  on  the  street  outside  their  own  house.  This  is  what  the  scene  is  like:  The  hus-  band,  dressed  like  a  modest  middle-aged  professor  in  a  movie,  and  his  wife,  dressed  as  a  humble  professor's  wife,  are  stopped  by  the  two  S.S.  men  (one  of  them  Ernst)  as  they  arrive  at  their  door,  arm  in  arm,  one  late-summer  afternoon.  \n\nThe  husband  carries  a  folded  newspaper  _  and  a  loaf  of  bread.  Ernst  has  been  told  to  push  the  pro-  fessor,  while  the  other  S.S.  man  (a  chemistry  student)  is  to  hold  the  woman  by  the  elbow.  Ernst  mutters  to  the  actor,  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  and  gives  him  a  push.  &quot;Explain  it  to  him  in  German,&quot;  says  the  director  to  Willi.  &quot;Don't  apologize,&quot;  says  Willi  quiet,  ly.  &quot;He  doesn't  mind  being  pushed.  He  expects  it.&quot;  &quot;If  he  expects  it  .  ..&quot;  But  Ernst  says  &quot;I'm  sorry&quot;  again.  If  he  fails  a  third  time,  they  certainly  won't  use  Ernst  in  the  picture.  It  would  be  a  pity,  because  Ernst  is  trying,  and  he  does  need  the  money.  Willi  under-  stands:  Ernst  has  too  much  respect  for  the  professor.  Ernst  wouldn't  hurt  a  fly.  Somebody  must  have  hurt  a  fly  once,  or  they  wouldn't  keep  on  making  these  movies.  But  it  wasn't  Willi  or  Ernst.  &quot;Give  him  a  good  push,&quot;  says  Willi,  laughing  suddenly,  &quot;and  you'll  get  your  pension  tomorrow.&quot;  Ernst  gives  the  professor  such  a  push  that  the  poor  man  falls  against  his  wife.  &quot;''The  bread!&quot;  she  cries,  but  it  is  too  late:  the  bread  has  fallen  on  the  dirty  pavement.  She  and  the  professor  bend  down  to  pick  it  up.  She  keeps  her  arm  around  him.  She  puts  the  bread  inside  the  folded  newspaper  and  takes  the  parcel  gently  from  the  man.  Ernst  and  the  chemistry  student  have  nothing  more  to  do.  'The  couple  walk  off  be-  tween  the  two  S.S.  men  as  if  they  had  always  known  this  was  how  one  after-  noon  would  end.  &quot;It's  marvellous,  that  bit  about  the  bread,&quot;  says  the  director.  The  star  of  the  film,  the  French  Resistance  heroine,  thinks  it  was  over-  done.  'They  shoot  two  versions,  one  with  the  bread  falling,  and  one  with  the  professor  losing  his  spectacles.  Now  Ernst  has  the  hang  of  it  and  knocks  the  spectacles  off  without  saying  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  The  Resistance  heroine  is  Italian.  She  glances  at  Willi,  but  she  smokes  and  swears,  and  Willi  can't  bear  that. \n\n Her  skin  is  a  mess.  She  looks  as  if  she'd  had  smallpox.  Someone  tells  Willi  she  was  once  a  Roman  prostitute.  He  likes  the  young  girl  who  has  the  part  of  the  professor's  daughter.  She  is  a  4672616e6365ianof  sixteen  who  has  spent  her  life,  until  now,  in  a  convent  school.  She  runs  down  the  street  screaming  behind  her  parents.  Willi  thinks  she  does  it  well.  She  seems  to  him  pure  and  good.  He  has  already  noticed  that  she  is  chap-  eroned,  and  that  she  doesn't  smoke.  But  if  anyone  gets  to  the  girl  it  will  be  Ernst.  Ernst  has  more  luck  with  girls  than  Willi.  He  is  in  trouble,  and  girls  will  listen  to  that.  Willi  has  nothing  to  com-  plain  about  and  lacks  conversation.  He  knows  that  some  weakness  in  his  \n\nbe-havior  makes  him  lose  the  upper  hand,  but  he  is  not  certain  where  it  begins.  WO  years  ago,  on  another  film,  Willi  met  a  girl  who  looked  like  this  one.  She  had  blond  hair,  short  as  a  boy's,  and  wore  a  heart  on  a  gold  chain  around  her  neck.  She  was  calm  and  gentle-it  is  always  the  same  girl,  the  one  they  told  him  once  he  was  going  to  have  to  defend.  The  blond  girl  in-  vited  Willi  to  her  parents'  flat  one  after-  noon  when  no  one  was  home.  She  lived  in  an  old  house  with  high  ceilings.  He  remembers  looking  out  the  window  into  trees.  She  was  proud  to  be  entertaining  a  man,  and  she  brought  him  ice  and  whiskey  on  a  tray.  When  he  refused,  she  sulked  and  sat  as  far  away  from  him  as  she  could.  She  crossed  her  legs,  looked  out  the  window,  twisted  and  un-  twisted  her  gold  chain.  He  asked  a  stupid  question.  He  said,  &quot;Don't  you  like  me?&quot;  He  always  asks  toosoon,  and  the  failure  begins  there.  &quot;What  does  it  matter?&quot;  said  the  young  girl.  The  question  annoyed  her.  He  had  let  her  know  she  could  be  cruel.  Wondering  what  to  say  then,  he  touched  a  lapis-lazuli  ashtray.  &quot;My  brother-in-law  in  Stuttgart  has  a  bathroom  tiled  with  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Don't  be  ridiculous,&quot;  said  the  girl.  &quot;It's  lapis  lazuli.&quot;  &quot;Whatever  it  is,  my  brother-in-law  has  a  bathroom  tiled  with  it.&quot;  " b"&quot;He  can't  have.  Imagine  what  it  would  cost!  Why,  even  an  ashtray  costs-I  don't  know  what,  exactly.  You  must  mean  blue  tiles,  or  blue  marble,  or  something  like  that.&quot;  Willi  felt  the  weight  of  the  ashtray  and  said,  &quot;I'm  sure  it's  this.&quot; &quot;Then  he  must  be  so  richk-a  gang-  ster.  Besides,  it  would  be  vulgar.&quot;  She  was  impressed,  though.  He  could  see  that.  She  stared  at  the  ashtray.  She  had  forgotten  Willi's  question.  He  had  the  upper  hand,  but  only  because  of  the  brother-in-law,  He  suddenly  thought  she  wasn't  the  girl  he  had  expected.  He  stayeda  few  minutes  longer,  just  to  be  polite,  and  then  went  away.  He  didn't  see  the  girl  again.  He  has  waited  so  long  he  must  be  cer-  tain;  he  has  waited  too  long  to  afford  a  mistake.  "