 b"HAVE  Vogue  and  Harper's  Ba-  H  zaar  lost  their  touch?  Has  the  terre-a-terre,  or  terre-a-lune,  world  impinged  upon  the  dreams  that  peppered  their  pages  and  influenced  my  actions  when  they,  and  I,  were  young,  or  younger:  the  prophecy  of  Salvador  Dali,  for  instance,  in  a  1939  issue  of  Vogue,  that  the  jewels  of  tomorrow  would  wind  up  and  come  to  life,  acquir-  ing  &quot;the  hypnotic,  slow,  almost  imper-  ceptible  movements  of  living  sea-urchins,  or  the  digestive,  somnambulistic,  and  patient  contractions  of  carnivorous  plants-movements  of  dazzling  preci-  sion  and  of  biological  afterthoughts;&quot;  the  revelation,  in  the  same  magazine  the  following  year,  that  Mrs.  McAdoo  Taylor,  Miss  Brenda  Frazier,  and  a  number  of  other  stylish  ladies  kept  their  &quot;Good  Looks&quot;  by  washing  themselves  with  camomile  tea,  fresh  cream,  tepid  milk,  raw  egg  yolks  or  white-of-egg,  raw-cucumber  lotion,  and  a  solution  of  Epsom  salts;  the  discovery,  by  Harper's  Bazaar,  in  the  freshening  postwar  win-  ter  of  1946,  that  &quot;feet  speak,  but  they  tell  no  lies&quot;?  (&quot;Love  your  feet-they  love  you,&quot;  the  Bezear  went  on,  and  I  turned  from  trying  to  speed  up  the  diadems,  tiaras,  and  stomachers  that  then  dazzlingly  came  my  way,  and  from  my  scrambled-egg  rinses  and  minestrone  rubs  to  a  series  of  affectionate  chats  with  my  toes,  most  of  which  snubbed  me.)  These  magazines  used  to  delight  me,  but  as  time  went  on  I  read  them  less  and  less.  I  see  in  my  files,  which  contain  pr\xc3\xa9cis  of  articles  that  have  influenced  me  profoundly,  that  my  next-to-last  plunge  into  Vogue  took  place  in  the  summer  of  1955,  when  a  rhetorical  question  there-&quot;But  even  if  a  stocking  could  stretch  from  here  to  [REDACTED],  what  would  be  the  point  if  it  didn't  also  flat-  ter?&quot;-started  my  rhetorical  glands  flowing,  and  that  my  next-to-last  im-  mersion  in  the  Bazaar  was  a  couple  of  months  before  that.  &quot;Wherever  you  walk  and  whenever  you  sit,  hold  your  head  as  though  a  thread  attached  it  to  a  star,&quot;  the  Bazaar  counselled  its  read-  ers,  and  I  was  off  on  a  canter  of  astro-  nomical  afterthoughts.  I  got  to  reading  these  magazines  less  and  less  because  an  increasing  addiction  to  [REDACTED]'s  seven  English-language  daily  papers-an  addiction  motivated  by  compulsion  or  by  a  crazy  idea  that  I  ought  to  know  what  is  going  on-  tended  to  prevent  my  having  time  to  read  Vogue  and  Harper's  Bazaar,  which  tell  you,  by  and  large,  what  is  not  going  on.  Seven  long  years  of  deprivation,  but  now,  thank  my  lucky  stars,  including  the  one  to  which  my  head  is  attached,  the  newspaper  strike  is  in  its  sixth  week,  and  I  have  caught  up  with  my  neglected  darlings.  There's  nothing  like  a  feast  after  a  famine.  I  find  that  I  have  ap-  proached  them  with  the  heightened  exuberance  of  a  man  freed,  if  only  for  the  duration,  from  the  shackles  of  Walter  Lippmann  and  Elsa  Maxwell.  Thank  you,  dear  Mr.  Bertram  A.  Powers,  president  of  the  New  York  Typographical  Union  No.  6,  and  thank  you,  dear  Mr.  Amory  H.  Bradford,   vice-president  of  the  Times  and  spokes-  man  for  the  opposition-thank  you  for  a  breathing  space  in  which  to  read  (without  a  nagging  feeling  of  guilt  that  my  time  might  be  better  spent  on  Arthur  Krock,  Cyrus  L.  Sulzberger,  Roscoe  Drummond,  and  Dorothy  Kilgallen)  &quot;Christmas  from  the  Heart,&quot;  an  editori-  al  in  the  December  issue  of  Harper's  Bazaar.  &quot;If  you  long  for  the  true  Christmas  spirit-and  don't  we  all-&quot;  it  starts  out,  without  a  question  mark,  and  goes  on:  -begin  by  making  it  a  celebration,  not  from  the  checkbook  but  from  the  heart,  and  offer  a  part  of  yourself.  Give  perhaps  the  gift  of  memories:  Sur-  prise  your  husband  with  cufflinks  made  from  two  little  flat  round  stones  picked  up  on  the  sand  in  front  of  your  beachhouse  and  set  as  if  they  were  precious,  and  in  a  sense  they  are.  Paint  a  personal  message  on  larger  stones  and  send  them  as  paper-  weight  mementos  (with  your  country  ad-  dress  and  telephone  number  on  the  under-  side)to  past  weekend  guests  as  an  implied  invitation  for  next  summer.  For  far-flung  girlhood  friends,  unearth  old  snapshots  from  your  times  together-looking  terribly  St.  Trinian's  in  school  uniforms  or  like  the  hope  of  the  hockey  team  in  gym  bloomers.  Mount  the  pictures  gaily  on  red  paper  and  mail  them  along  with  a  newsy  up-to-date  report  on  your  doings.  For  all  those  with  whom  you  spent  a  wonderful  holiday-  sailing  the  Greek  isles  on  the  same  yacht  or  sharing  a  summer  house-do  up  a  diary,  preferably  with  snapshots,  recalling  the  little  laughs,  the  mad  crises,  the  funny  mayhem.  Ahem!  Mayhem,  according  to  Web-  ster,  is  &quot;the  maiming  of  a  person  by  de-  priving  him  of  the  use  of  any  of  his  members  which  are  necessary  for  him  in  defending  himself  .  .  .  ;  often  extend-  ed  by  statute  to  cover  all  willful  disfigur-  ings  of  the  body,&quot;  and  I  won-  der  whether  a  Kodak  of  this,  however  gaily  mounted,  would  get  through  the  mails.  It  might,  of  course,  for  the  censors  are  on  a  thirty-hour  week  and  let  some  things  slip  by,  and  besides,  featherbedding  abounds  (along  with  moonlighting,  which  makes  some  censors  too  bushed  to  do  justice  to  their  primary  responsibilities),  but  my  lawyer  has  advised  me  against  posting  such  illustrated  reports  on  my  doings.  &quot;Keep  the  evidence  of  your  doings  under  your  hat,&quot;  he  said,  with  a  little  laugh.  ''Tear  those  pictures  up  and  swallow  the  pieces.&quot;  Still,  what  do  you  know!  My  wife  did  surprise  me  with  cufflinks  made  from  some  lit-  tle  round  stones  picked  up  in  front  of  our  beach  house  at  Siasconset  last  summer  and  set  " b"as  if  they  were  precious.  The  trouble  is,  in  a  prodigal  gesture,  she  used  four  stones-two  for  each  link-and  they  weren't  quite  flat  enough  to  go  through  the  buttonholes  in  the  sleeves  of  my  regu-  lar  shirts.  I  didn't  want  to  hurt  her  feel-  ings,  and  the  stones  certainly  evoked  precious  memories  of  mayhem  they  or  their  fellow-pebbles  did  to  the  soles  of  my  feet  (which,  as  you  will  recall,  Harper's  Bazaar  had  taught  me  to  love)  last  Au-  gust,  so  I  had  Charles  Dillon  run  up  some  special  shirts  for  me-a  celebration  that  came  from  my  checkbook.  I  was  additionally  surprised  when  I  got  a  bill  from  Cartier  for  the  setting  ofthe  stones,  and  my  checkbook,  whichhad  already  been  surprised  by  the  Dillon  bill-it  came  a  day  or  two  before  the  one  from  Cartier-was  in  such  a  state  that  I  resolved  to  spare  it  further  aston-  ishment.  I  felt,  however,  that  a  personal  message  to  Cartier  was  in  order.  Our  beach  house,  which  is  heated  only  by  a  Franklin  stove-and,  come  to  think  of  it,  was  merely  rented  at  that-was  closed  for  the  season,  and  I  suspected  that  a  trip  to  Nantucket  to  get  a  stone  suitable  for  such  a  message  might  prove  dreary,  so  I  picked  up  a  fresh-water  stone  from  the  Seventy-second  Street  lake  in  [REDACTED].  I  painted  a  person-  al  message  on  it,  and,  cautioned  by  my  lawyer  not  to  send  this  through  the  mails,  either,  I  threw  it  through  one  of  the  Cartier  windows.  Very  well.  Scarcely  had  I  digested  the  Bazaar's  hypnoticeditorial-'&quot;Give  the  gift  of  experience,&quot;  it  continued.  &quot;...  For  a  bride.  ...  (if  she's  an  em-  bryonic  chef,  include  a  pair  of  long  as-  bestos  mittens  that  cover  halfway  to  the  elbow;  they  may  be  meant  for  barbe-  cuing  but  they  save  a  beginner  many  an  oven  burn.)&quot;-when,  as  luck  would  have  it,  a  bevy  of  far-flung,  girlhood  St.  T'rinian's  friends  of  my  wife  showed  up,  fresh  from  the  yacht  they  had  been  shar-  ing.  One  of  them  looked  to  me  as  though  she  hadn't  been  flung  far  enough-her  bloomers  were  neatly  creased-so  I  put  on  my  asbestos  mittens  and  flung  her  on  the  sofa.  This  precipitated  a  mad  crisis  on  the  poop,  after  which  I  pooped  out  and  sought  solace  in  a  copy  ofthe  De-  cember  Vogue.  &quot;Dresro-cmanco!  Here  are  the  1963  Status  Symbols,&quot;  I  read  in  a  headline  at  the  top  of  page  11,  and,  immediately  underneath:  &quot;'The&quot;  place  to  go  is  Sardinia.  If  you  own  your  own  airplane,  it  better  be  jet  now-no  prop.  Of  course,  boats  are  for  the  masses-except  a  houseboat  in  Kash-  mir,  which  will  get  you  three  points.  For  therapy,  one  grows  Chinese  vegetables.  There  seems  to  be  a  revival  of  the  harp  for  your  living  room,  The  pool  table  returns  to  the  library,  and  one  plays  pool  after  dinner.  Well,  I  slipped  downstairs  to  the  li-  brary  (the  guests  had  been  piped  off),  threw  my  Old  Town  canoe  out  the  win-  dow,  ordered  some  Chinese  veg.  from  Gristede's  and  a  harp  from  Lyon  &amp;  [REDACTED],  telephoned  my  pawnbroker  to  return  the  pool  table,  and  went  back  to  Vogue  for  further  status  hints.  Good  heavens!  On  closer  inspection  ofthe  article,  I  found  that  it  was  not  part  and  parcel  of  the  magazine  proper  buta  Hat-  tie  Carnegie  advertisement.  The  afore-  mentioned  paragraph,  along  with  acou-  ple  of  others  recommending  a  &quot;Silver  Cloud  Rolls-Royce,&quot;  &quot;a  pale  cocoa  toned  Bentley&quot;  with  four  headlights,  &quot;sculpture  for  the  garden,&quot;  and  col-  ored  diamonds  (&quot;Pink  is  tops&quot;),  was  simply  a  windup  for  an  essay  on  chin-  chilla,  with  prices.  No  matter.  Vogue  is  still  the  same  oldhive  of  Surrealistic  comph.  It  advises  you,  in  a  piece  called  &quot;The  Strong  Brown  Midriff,&quot;  to  take  a  deep  breath,  &quot;exhale,  [and]  now,  quite  empty  of  air,  imagine  that  a  hot  buckle  is  about  to  be  placed  on  your  mid-  riff.  Contract  your  midriff  away  from  the  buckle.  Repeat  five  times.&quot;  An-  other  piece,  in  a  list  of  suggestions  for  Christmas  gifts  to  friends,  advises  you  to  rent  for  them  in  advance  &quot;a  villa  in  the  south  of  [REDACTED]  or  Sardinia  for  a  month&quot;  (Hattie  Carnegie  was  right  on  the  button).  And,  in  an  article  by  a  contributor,  you  are  urged  to  visit  Yucatan,  where  &quot;the  Mayan  ...  men-  tions  with  light  pride  (the  Mayan  is  too  civilized  a  man  to  boast)  his  remarkable  cleanliness.&quot;  I  shifted  my  asbestos  mittens  to  my  midriff,  brushed  my  teeth  unobtrusively,  and  went  on  to  a  Cecil  Beaton  Christ-  mas  Scrapbook  (shades  of  the  thirties!  ).  It  consisted  ofa  montage  that  included  a  holograph  &quot;Dearest  Clarissa&quot;  letter  from  Mr.  Beaton  to  the  Countess  of  Avon,  and  another,  from  Mr.  Beaton's  father,  written  to  the  son  when  he  was  eleven  months  old,  addressed  to  &quot;Master  Cecil  Walter  Hardy  Gingertop  Fizgig  T  weedlepunch  Rufus  Rueben  Leo  Alfic  Fred  Hackenschmidt  Beaton.&quot;  It  starts  out  &quot;My  dear  little  Gingertop&quot;  and  reads,  in  part,  &quot;&quot;Has  he  been  out  with  the  naughty  Butcher  man  and  come  home  covered  with  mud.&quot;  No  question  mark  again.  The  Avon  letter  is  headed  &quot;Date  unknown,&quot;  in  Mr.  Beaton's  handwrit-  ing,  which  makes  me  wonder  whether  it  is  an  original  or  a  fair,  or  fair-to-mid-  dling,  copy.  If  original,  it  was  terribly  original  of  the  writer  not  to  know  what  year  he  was  writing  in;  if  not,  how  in  Tophet-  Oh,  well,  the  answer  to  my  original  question  is  no,  the  ladies  have  not  lost  their  touch,  and  I  am  forever  indebted  to  the  Messrs.  Powers  and  Bradford  for  the  opportunity  to  come  to  this  newsy,  up-to-date  conclusion. "