 b"EVEN  in  summer  the  landscape  E  was  mostly  gray.  The  houses  were  gray,  the  stone  walls  divid-  ing  the  fields  were  gray,  and  although  the  fields  themselves  were  green  they  were  rather  halfhearted  about  it,  as  if  they  found  the  natural  conditionof  be-  ing  gray  difficult  to  get  away  from.  In  winter,  the  grayness  became  universal.  It  was  obvious  from  the  mere  look  of  it  that  Derbyshire  was  the  coldest  coun-  ty  in  [REDACTED],  apart  from  the  evidence  of  the  thermometer  and  the  prevalence  of  chilblains.  The  local  inhabitants  were  used  to  it.  All  the  same,  there  were  times  when  the  cold  was  exceptional  and  complaint  was  permissible.  This  winter,  for  a  couple  of  weeks,  the  wind  came  straight  out  of  [REDACTED]  and  poured  across  the  upland  from  the  east.  People  bundled  themselves  in  all  the  warm  clothing  they  had,  and  wherever  they  talked  to  each  other  they  commented  on  the  weather  with  distaste.  Most  of  them  held  that  it  was  toocold  to  snow,  but  they  proved  to  be  wrong.  About  the  end  of  the  sec-  ond  week,  a  few  black  specks  came  whistling  out  of  the  black  sky  and  turned  white  where  they  fell.  Soon  it  was  impos-  sible  to  tell  the  earth  from  the  sky.  The  blizzard  only  lasted  a  few  hours,  but  the  snow  went  on  falling  in  large  woolly  white  flakes,  covering  everything  with  a  deep,  even  layer  be-  tween  the  drifts.  &quot;If  it  goes  on  like  this,&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  said  on  Friday,  &quot;your  friend  What's-His-  Name-  Stephen-won't  be  able  to  get  here  from  [REDACTED]  at  all.&quot;  &quot;He'll  get  here  all  right,&quot;  John,  his  son,  re-  plied.  But  he  only  said  it  to  cover  up  his  own  disappointment.  He  had  met  Stephen  Midhurst  in  Skye  the  previous  summer,  while  they  were  both  on  vacation.  In  two  or  three  days,  marooned  in  the  same  hotel  by  torrential  rains,  they  had  become  friend-  ly  enough  to  exchange  addresses.  Ste-  phen's  was  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  worked  in  the  offices  of  an  airline  company,  so  their  chances  of  meeting  were  slight,  unless  John  should  save  up  enough  to  go  climbing  in  [REDACTED]  the  following  summer.  Even  if  he  did  so,  it  was  quite  possible  that  bythen  Stephen  might  have  moved  on  to  San  Francisco  or  [REDACTED].  For  Stephen  Midhurst  was  a  figure  of  some  romance-a  wanderer,  a  citi-     zen  of  the  world.  John  was  flattered  that  such  a  man  should  consider  it  worthwhile  to  keep  in  touch  with  him,  even  for  a  few  months.  His  own  life  was  frankly  dull.  He  lived  quietly  in  Derbyshire  with  his  quiet  parents,  travel-  ling  up  every  day  to  Manchester  with  his  father,  who,  like  John,  was  em-  ployed  in  the  offices  ofa  steelworks  there.  The  steelworks  was  not  quiet,  but  it  was  no  more  romantic  than  Der-  byshire.  John  was  too  modest  to  realize  that  his  lively  interest  in  people  and  things  might  make  three  wet  days  in  Skye  un-  expectedly  entertaining  for  Stephen.  Later,  he  wrote  wryly  observant  com-  mentson  English  provincial  life  to  his  new  friend,  and  was  gratified  when  Stephen  replied  with  no  less  wry  com-  ments  on  the  gaieties  of  [REDACTED].  Re-  cently  Stephen  had  written  to  say  that  his  old  great-aunt  had  died  in  Shef-  field-an  odd  place  for  such  a  man  to  have  any  kind  of  aunt.  He  had  to  pay  a  flying  visit  to  clear  up  some  odds  and  ends,  and  when  he  had  cleared  them  up  he  would  come  on  to  John's  place  for  the  weekend,  if  they  could  find  him  a  spare  bed.  The  spare  bed  was  available,  but  it  looked  unlikely  that  Stephen  would  get  there  to  occupy  it.  As  a  result  of  the  storm,  the  east-to-west  traffic  across  the  Pennines  had  ground  to  its  customary  halt.  Nothing  had  come  down  the  road  from  Mam  Tor  since  morn-  ing,  and  the  Snake  Pass  had  been  blocked  since  the  previous  midday.  A  few  trains  were  still  running,  but  it  was  not  expected  that  they  would  continue  to  do  so  much  longer  unless  it  stopped  snow-  ing.  gAlthough  John  Ditchling  was  disap-  pointed,  it  was  not  in  the  tradition  that  he  should  show  it.  After  lunch  on  Satur-  day,  when  it  was  still  snowing  steadily,  he  disappeared  into  the  bathroom,  which  served  him  as  an  occasional  darkroom,  to  develop  some  films.  Mr.  Ditchling  was  not  disappointed  at  all.  Citizens  of  the  world  were  not  his  cup  of  tea,  and  he  led  a  quiet  life  because  he  liked  it.  His  son  and  daughter  had  numerous  friends  who  were  always  coming  to  the  house.  He  endured  their  chatter  at  mealtimes  with  patience,  and  at  other  times  re-  tired,  either  to  the  garden  or  to  the  little  " b"room  he  called  his  study.  He  had  a  desk  in  there,  a  leather  armchair,  and  a  quantity  of  books.  If  his  wife  came  in  with  her  sewing  and  the  transistor  radio,  he  endured  them  with  patience,  too,  since  he  could  read  as  well  in  company  as  in  solitude.  He  was  altogether  a  tol-  erant  man.  E  was  sitting  in  his  study  on  Satur-  day  afternoon,  with  his  wife  and  the  transistor  radio,  when  he  looked  up  from  his  book  and  saw  through  the  diamond  panes  of  the  window  a  figure  moving  up  the  path  from  the  gate.  The  diamond  panes  were  small,  and  half  of  every  pane  was  blocked  by  snow  sitting  on  the  lead  flashings,  so  that  for  a  mo-  ment  the  figure  seemed  to  be  composed  wholly  of  snow.  Mr.  Ditchling  was  imperturbable,  as  is  common  with  tol-  erant  men,  and  he  regarded  this  walk-  ing  snowman  with  pleasure  rather  than  alarm.  &quot;'That  must  be  John's  friend  Ste-  phen,&quot;  he  remarked.  His  wife,  who  was  less  imperturbable,  leaped  up,  scattering  sewing.  &quot;It  can't  be,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  been  snowing  all  day.  How  did  he  get  here?&quot;  &quot;Probably  fiew,&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  said,  following  his  wife  out  of  thestudy.  He  was  not  sociable,  but  he  was  curi-  ous.  John  appeared,  and  the  three  of  them  took  Stephen  into  the  kitchen  and  beat  the  snow  off  him.  A  medium-sized  man  emerged,  with  a  brown  face  and  a  thin  black  mustache.  &quot;I  got  a  lift,&quot;  he  explained.  &quot;Fellow  in  a  little  open  car.  He  had  a  shovel  in  the  back,  but  the  trouble  was  mostly  ice,  not  snow.  Lorries  in  the  ditch  all  the  way.  But  a  little  car  like  that,  when  it  skids  off  the  road  you  shove  it  back  on  again.&quot;  &quot;'You  had  plenty  of  snow  on  you,&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  observed.  &quot;Well,  we  had  the  top  down.  He  said  we  could  see  better  without  it,  but  I  think  thetop  was  kaput,  actually.  I've  never  seen  a  car  with  so  much  snow  in  it.&quot;  He  was  older  than  John-twenty-six  or  twenty-seven.  Mr.  Ditchling  had  thought  he  might  bea  bit  uppish,  com-  ing  out  of  the  great  world  to  daz-  zle  Derbyshire,  but  apart  from  that  little  black  mustache  he  looked  quite  sensible.  You'd  better  go  upstairs  and  change  your  trousers,&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  said.  He  went  into  the  sitting  room,  where  he  found  his  daughter,  Joan.  She  was  a  pretty,  healthy-looking  girl.  Any  girl  had  a  right  to  be  pretty  at  seventeen,  Mr.  Ditchling  thought.  What  she'd " b"be  like  at  thirty  was  a  different  mat-  ter.  &quot;Stephen  came,&quot;  he  said,  going  over  to  his  chair  and  picking  up  a  paper.  &quot;So  I  heard.  I  thought  there  were  enough  of  you  out  there.  What's  he  like?&quot;  &quot;All  right.  Too  old  for  you,  though.&quot;  &quot;One's  enough,&quot;  Joan  said,  turning  slightly  pink.  It  was  accepted  that  Joan  had  a  boy  friend.  Mr.  Ditchling  could  never  remember  his  name,  but  since  he  had  nothing  to  say  to  him,  it  was  un-  necessary  to  learn  it.  Nobody  dropped  in  that  evening  ex-  cept  Joan's  boy  friend;  the  snow  in  the  back  road  kept  John's  casual  callers  away.  Mr.  Ditchling  spent  all  the  eve-  ning  in  the  sitting  room  instead  of  re-  tiring  to  his  study.  He  told  himself  it  was  quieter  in  there  than  usual,  so  he  might  as  well  enjoy  his  own  fireside  for  once,  but  in  fact  he  was  interested  in  talking  to  Stephen.  Stephen  talked  a  lot,  it  was  true.  But  John  talked  just  as  much,  and  Stephen  listened  to  him,  which  was  a  point  in  his  favor.  It  had  not  occurred  to  Mr.  Ditchling  before  that  his  son  John  was  quite  an  amusing  chap.  He  had  nothing  to  talk  about  but  }  the  steelworks,  or  the  time  somebody  or  other  fell  off  a  rock  they  were  climbing,  but  he  held  his  own  with  this  chap  Stephen,  who  had  been  farming  in  New  Zealand  and  planting  sugar  in  46696a69  and  one  thing  and  another.  Not  that  Stephen  indulged  in  any  of  this  when-I-was-in-Rio  stuff.  If  some-  thing  funny  that  had  happened  in  46696a69  helped  the  story  along,  he  included  it,  but  you  got  no  impression  that  Stephen  thought  more  of  himself  for  having  been  in46696a69  instead  of  stuck  all  his  life  in  the  coldest  county  in  [REDACTED].  Mr.  Ditchling  found  himself  suddenly  a  lit-  tle  hoarse,  and  when  he  looked  at  his  watch  it  was  half  past  twelve.  &quot;'Time  for  bed,&quot;he  said,  standing  up.  &quot;Where's  Joan?&quot;  &quot;Saying  good  night  to  Arthur,&quot;  John  said.  &quot;Who?  Oh,  Arthur.  I've  got  a  bit  of  a  sore  throat.&quot;  'You've  been  talking  too  much,&quot;  his  son  said.  &quot;Me,  talking  too  much?&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  glared  at  John  in  indignation.  &quot;I  haven't  had  a  chance  to  get  a  word  in  edgewise.&quot;  HEN  they  came  down  for  break-  fast,  they  found  the  world  greatly  improved  in  appearance.  Outside  the  window,  the  lawn  beyond  the  flower  beds  was  an  unbroken  sheet  of  white,  sparkling  in  the  sun.  &quot;You  ought  both  to  go  for  a  good  " b"walk,&quot;  Mrs.  Ditchling  said.  Like  her  husband,  Mrs.  Ditchling  was  quiet;  she  was  also  slightly  deaf,  so  she  had  more  excuse  for  being  quiet  than  he  did.  She  lived  apart,  in  her  own  world,  as  the  deaf  tend  to,  but  she  seemed  quite  happy  in  it.  &quot;Bit  heavy  underfoot,&quot;  Mr.  Ditch-  ling  said.  &quot;We  could  go  up  the  Pike,&quot;  John  said.  Their  guest  showed  little  enthusiasm  for  this  plan.  He  was  staring,  fascinated,  out  of  the  window.  &quot;Only  one  thing  to  do  with  all  that  snow,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Make  a  snowman.  I  haven't  made  a  snow-  man  since  I  was  twelve.&quot;  &quot;I  should  think  you'd  getplenty  of  chances  for  making  snowmen  in  Swit-  zerland,&quot;  John  said.  Stephen  looked  rather  puzzled  by  this  obvious  truth.  &quot;You  would  think  so,  but  in  fact  I've  never  once  thought  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Well,  the  snow's  all  yours,&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  said.  &quot;It'll  be  filthy  slush  in  a  day  or  two,  so  better  make  the  most  of  it.&quot;  In  the  way  of  country  families,  they  were  plentifully  supplied  with  gum  boots.  John  and  Stephen,  gum-booted,  wrapped  scarves  round  their  necks  as  they  drank  a  final  cup  of  tea.  Mr.  Ditch-  ling,  watching  them  as  he  sipped  his  tea,  felt  some  sort  of  twinge.  Could  it  be  indigestion?  He  was  eying  the  door,  and  thinking  with  unaccustomed  reluc-  tance  of  his  study,  when  he  became  aware  that  Stephen  was  regarding  him  with  some  severity.  &quot;Well,  come  on,  Mr.  Ditchling,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Don't  be  all  day  over  that  cup  of  tea.  The  sun  won't  shine  forever.&quot;  &quot;Me?  You  don't  expect  me  to  build  a  snowman?&quot;  &quot;Well,  not  if  you  don't  want  to.  But  it's  a  lot  of  work  for  two  men.&quot;  'There  was  no  doubt  about  the  genuineness  of  Stephen'sdisappointment.  Mr.  Ditchling  was  astonished.  He  might  still  have  refused  to  come  if  he  had  not  happened  to  notice  that  John  was  astonished,  too.  Did  his  son  think  he  was  incapable  of  building  a  snow  man  if  he  wanted  to?  &quot;All  right,&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  said.  &quot;But  you  go  on.  I'll  finish  this  cup  of  tea  and  get  my  gum  boots  on.&quot;  Oddly  enough,  his  twinge  had  gone.  If  it  was  indigestion,  it  was  short-lived.  More  oddly  still,  he  was  impatient.  He  swilled  down  his  cup  of  tea,  cramming  his  gum  boots  on  between  mouthfuls.  When  he  stepped  out  of  the  back  door,  the  two  young  men  were  rolling  a  big  snowball  about  on  the  lawn.  It  had  got  to  the  stage  where  it  picked  up  the  snow " b"cleanly  off  the  lawn,  leaving  bare  grass  underneath.  &quot;What's  all  this?&quot;  he  asked,  walk-  ing  toward  them.  &quot;Snowballs?  I  thought  you  said  a  snowman.&quot;  Stephen  straightened  his  back,  pant-  ing.  &quot;It's  the  only  way  to  make  snow-  men.  Big  snowballs  Two  big  snow-  balls.  But  with  enough  manpower  we  might  make  it  three.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I  don't  know,&quot;  Mr.  Ditch-  ling  said  doubtfully.  &quot;As  far  as  I  re-  member,  we  used  to  use  shovels.&quot;  &quot;Shovels  are  no  use,&quot;  Stephen  said.  &quot;Only  for  teeny-weeny  snowmen.  You  want  a  solid  core  for  a  good  snowman.  Solidity  for  strength.  Lend  us  a  hand,  and  push.&quot;  It  was  clear  that  Stephen  regarded  this  snowman  with  intense  seriousness.  Mr.  Ditchling  was  impressed.  He  was  a  heavily  built  man,  and  applied  his  weight  in  the  center,  while  the  two  younger  men  worked  beside  him.  &quot;Get  it  to  the  middle  before  it's  too  heavy  to  move,&quot;  Stephen  said.  It  was  brought  to  the  middle  of  the  lawn.  &quot;Well,  there  we  are,&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  said,  gazing  at  the  thick  ball  with  the  pride  of  achievement.  &quot;What  next?&quot;  &quot;Another  snowball,  to  go  on  top  of  it,&quot;  Stephen  said.  He  stooped  down,  made  a  snowball  with  his  hands,  and  started  rolling  it  away  toward  one  cor-  ner  of  the  lawn.  Mr.  Ditchling  addressed  his  visitor's  stooping  back.  &quot;Funny  thing.  When  I  saw  you  first,  yesterday,  I  thought  you  were  a  snowman  yourself.&quot;  Stephen  stood  up  from  his  task,  and  John  took  it  over,  rolling  the  growing  ball  away  to  the  corner.  &quot;I  must  have  looked  like  one,  too.  Coming  in  all  over  snow.&quot;  &quot;Coming  up  the  path.  I  saw  you  out  of  the  study  window.&quot;  &quot;You'll  have  a  statue  of  me  on  the  lawn,  tillit  melts.&quot;  Stephen  had  a  warm  and  friendly  smile-under  the  thin  black  mustache,  which  Mr.  Ditchling  no  longer  noticed.  They  got  the  second  snowball  up  on  top  of  the  first,  with  some  struggling  and  heaving.  Stephen  insisted  on  a  third.  &quot;The  snowman  to  end  all  snowmen,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;That's  what  this  is  going  to  be.&quot;  The  third  snowball  was  smaller  than  the  other  two,  but  it  had  to  be  maneuvered  up  to  thetop  along  an  in-  cline  of  planks  from  the  tool  shed,  laid  over  a  trestle,  and  strengthened  by  bro-  ken-down  chairs.  Shovelwork  occupied  them  till  lunch.  They  beat  snow  into  the  cracks  between  the  three  snowballs  until  the  sides  were  smooth.  The  column  was  now  stout, " b"butnot  stout  enough  to  satisfy  its  build-  ers,  and  they  plastered  snow  around  it  until  it  was  thickly  gigantic.  A  small,  dense  snowball  for  its  head  had  to  be  placed  in  position  by  Stephen,  mounted  precariously  on  a  stepladder.  Joan  had  joined  them  for  the  shovelwork,  and  added  some  convincing  touches  to  the  arms,  which  the  snowman  held  stiffly  down  at  its  sides.  As  lunch  was  ready,  the  artwork  had  to  be  left  till  later.  After  lunch,  Mr.  Ditchling  retired  to  his  study.  He  was  contented  with  his  share  of  the  morn-  ing's  work.  Late  in  the  afternoon,  he  emerged  and  went  into  the  kitchen  to  see  how  things  were  getting  on.  He  looked  out  of  the  window.  There  was  nobody  in  the  garden,  but  the  snow-  man  loomed  enormously  in  the  gather-  ing  twilight.  It  wore  the  usual  accoutre-  ments  of  snowmen-a  battered  felt  hat,  a  pipe  in  its  mouth,  an  old  scarf  round  its  neck,  and  an  enigmatic  expression  in  its  eyes  of  black  coal.  Down  its  front  was  a  row  of  coal  buttons.  It  had  a  knobby  nose,  and  a  line  below  this  that  might  have  been  a  mouth  ora  thin  black  mustache.  That  evening,  they  talked  less  than  the  evening  before,  and  Mr.  Ditchling  even  read  the  Sunday  papers  for  half  an  hour  or  so.  It  was  a  contented  re-  laxation  after  creative  labor.  The  next  morning,  Mr.  Ditchling  and  his  son  went  off  to  the  station  together  as  usual,  to  catch  the  train  to  Manchester,  and  Stephen  went  with  them.  'There  was  a  train  standing  on  the  [REDACTED]  side,  so  Stephen  had  to  make  hurried  farewells  and  run  for  the  footbridge.  After  he  had  hurled  himself  into  his  train,  however,  it  sat  there  for  fifteen  minutes  or  so,  'The  transport  system  had  not  yet  recovered  from  the  climatic  shocks  of  the  weekend.  There  was  no  point  in  waving  more  than  once,  so  Mr.  Ditchling  and  his  son  took  to  the  waiting  room.  When  their  own  train  drew  in  and  drew  out,  the  [REDACTED]  train  was  still  waiting  at  its  platform,  and  they  caught  a  final  glimpse  of  Stephen  peering  out  of  a  grimy  window,  looking  for  them  but  not  finding  them.  Y  midweek,  the  thaw  had  started,  but  it  was  a  slow  one.  Ten  days  later,  there  were  still  piles  of  snow  in  the  gutters;  the  fields  were  streaked  with  white,  and  so  was  Mr.  Ditchling's  lawn.  As  for  the  snowman,  it  was  virtually  unchanged,  though  a  couple  of  buttons  had  fallen  out.  Stephen  wrote  a  thank-  you  letter  to  Mrs.  Ditchling,  and,  a  day  or  two  later,  a  longer  one  to  John.  He  hadhad  a  party  in  [REDACTED]  on  the  way  through;  now  that  he  was  back  in  Zu-" b"rich,  there  had  been  one  or  two  more  parties,  and  he  had  been  skiing  at  the  weekend.  Mr.  Ditchling,  given  thislet-  ter  to  read,  wondered  if  it  might  make  John  resent  his  quiet  life.  Perhaps  he,  too,  would  like  to  have  friends  in  Lon-  don,  and  go  to  parties  in  [REDACTED].  But  if  John  felt  any  resentment  he  showedno  signs  of  it.  His  friends  dropped  in  to  play  Monopoly  and  that  game  with  poker  dice,  and  to  plan  a  long  weekend  in  the  Lakes  at  Easter.  Joan's  young  man,  Arthur,  continued  faithful.  One  evening,  Mr.  Ditchling,  coming  across  them  unexpectedly  in  the  hall,  surprised  himself  by  barking  at  them  like  a  sea  lion  and  diving  into  his  study,  where  he  slammed  the  door  be-  hind  him  and  sat  for  ten  minutes  without  reading,  feeling  discomposed.  Then  the  thaw  really  set  in.  Every-  thing  gurgled  and  dripped,  and  soon  there  was  no  snow  left,  except  on  the  fringes  of  the  high  moors,  and  on  Mr.  Ditchling's  lawn,  where  the  stout  col-  umn  of  Stephen's  snowman  stood.  It  was  shorter  than  it  had  been,  though  not  perceptibly  thinner.  All  its  buttons  were  gone.  The  hat  had  blown  off,  and  the  pipe  had  fallen  from  the  mouth,  though  the  sodden  scarf  was  still  knotted  round  what  had  oncebeen  its  neck.  The  thin  black  mustache  was  still  there  in  the  eyeless  face.  It  was  a  piece  of  slate  driven  deeply  into  the  head,  and  would  last  as  long  as  the  head  did.  Two  days  later,  the  head  was  found  to  have  rolled  off  the  shoulders  during  the  night.  It  melted  during  the  day,  leaving  a  piece  of  slate  on  the  lawn,  which  Mrs.  Ditch-  ling  picked  up  and  laid  carefully  on  one  of  the  flower  beds.  The  column  was  still  a  stout  column,  but  it  shrank  steadily  all  week,  so  that  oneday  it  was  like  a  pillar  box,  and  the  next  day  it  was  like  a  gatepost.  By  the  weekend  there  was  only  an  up-  right  lump,  like  the  old  milestone  down  toward  Whaley,  Mr.  Ditchling  thought,  looking  out  of  the  window  at  it  on  Saturday  morning.  It  would  be  gone  by  evening.  But  it  turned  colder  during  the  day,  and  in  the  eve-  ning  the  snowman  was  still  there.  Friends  of  John's  dropped  in,  and  Arthur,  whom  Mr.  Ditchling  now  consciously  avoided.  He  took  refuge  in  his  study,  as  usual.  He  had  a  new  book,  but  it  was  not  as  interesting  as  he  had  hoped.  Nevertheless,  when  his  wife  went  off  to  bed,  he  said  he  would  sit  up  and  reada  little  longer.  In  fact,  he  gave  up  reading  to  sit  musing-an  un-  familiar  practice  with  him.  He  won-  dered  whatJohnwould  do  with  his  life.  He  supposed  he  would  marry  some  " b"local  girl  and  settle  down  somewhere,  probably  not  far  away.  As  for  Joan,  he  supposed  she  wouldmarry  Arthur,  or  somebody  like  Arthur.  He  was  lucky,  he  told  himself,  to  have  a  family  that  kept  together,  and  did  not  go  wandering  off,  as  some  of  the  younger  people  of  the  town  did  now  and  then.  After  the  party  broke  up,  and  Arthur  had  been  seen  off  the  premises,  and  he  had  heard  his  children  go  up  to  bed,  Mr.  Ditchling  wandered  into  the  kitch-  en  and  looked  out  of  the  window.  It  1B  was  a  frosty  night,  and  the  moon  shone  brightly  on  the  garden,  lighting  up  the  battered  stump  that  was  all  that  was  left  of  the  snowman.  Just  like  the  old  mile-  stone,  or  some  sort  of  stone.  He  looked  at  it  for  a  long  time,  out  there  in  the  cold  moonlight,  and  hardly  knew  what  to  make  of  what  he  was  thinking.  He  seemed  somehow  to  besorry  for  Ste-  phen,  or  else  he  was  sorry  for  John,  or  for  Joan,  or  for  his  wife.  Or  else  he  was  \xc2\xae  sorry  for  himself,  which  was  a  poor  state  for  a  man  to  get  into.  Quietly,  hetook  the  key  to  the  tool  shed  off  its  hook  by  the  back  door  and  quietly  turned  the  back-door  key  in  the  lock  and  let  him-  self  out.  In  the  morning,  there  was  a  heavy  white  frost.  It  covered  the  lawn  evenly  all  over,  looking  rather  as  the  snow  had  looked  some  weeks  before.  John,  coming  down  to  breakfast  not  long  after  Mr.  Ditchling,  glanced  out  of  the  window.  &quot;Why,  it's  gone,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'd  have  thought  with  this  frost  it  would  have  lasted  for  days  yet.&quot;  &quot;What's  gone?&quot;  &quot;The  snowman.  &gt;&gt;  &quot;Gone,  is  it?&quot;  Mr.  Ditchling  joined  him  at  the  window  and  looked  out  at  the  smooth  white  lawn.  He  hoped  he  had  scattered  the  snow  about  enough.  He  had  done  a  fair  job  on  it,  breaking  the  thing  up  with  a  shovel  and  grinding  the  lumps  under  his  heel.  If  the  frost  wore  off,  there  might  still  be  a  few  lumps  lying  about.  But  the  sky  looked  so  gray  just  now,  the  frost  would  prob-  ably  lie  on  the  lawn  all  day. "