 b"ALL  American  cities  look  alike  to-  A  day.  Except  for  a  few  well-  known  buildings,  a  scattering  of  distinctive  historical  landmarks,  any  street  in  any  one  of  them  could  be  set  down-houses,  furniture,  and  inhabit,  ants-in  any  other  city  without  dis-  turbing  either  the  transplantedor  their  new  neighbors.  'The  television  antennas  would  sprout  from  the  roofs,  the  big  [REDACTED]  cars  would  move  briskly  in  and  out  of  the  driveways,  the  supermarkets  and  the  gas  stations  and  the  bowling  al-  leys  would  all  open  for  business  as  usual.  Perhaps  it  was  not  so  different  in  the  twenties,  but  on  summer  days  in  Cori-  oli,  the  Midwestern  city  where  I  lived  as  a  little  girl,  there  were  horse-drawn  carts  still  on  the  streets,  with  the  drivers  lazily  calling  &quot;Rags-ol'  irons-ol'  stoves&quot;  in  a  chant  that  I'm  sure  was  unlike  the  ones  you  could  hear  in  any  other  city,  and  there  were  little  Ger-  man  scissors-grinders  perambulating  the  neighborhoods  with  their  equipment  heavy  on  their  backs,  and  in  our  suburb  there  was  a  peddler  we  called  Crazy  Joe-not  in  derision  but  in  simple,  com-  panionable  recognition  of  the  fact  that  he  really  was  mad-whistling  his  bird  whistle  down  the  street.  And  there  was  a  soccer  game  every  Sunday  afternoon,  in  the  fall  season,  at  a  playing  field  in  the  little  working-class  suburb  that  adjoined  ours.  I  never  knew  where  the  teams  or  the  spectators  came  from  (in  our  city  the  sport  was  as  exotic  as  jai  alai  or  lacrosse),  but  my  father  went  to  the  games  religiously,  so  the  rest  of  us,  knowing  nothing  of  the  sport,  car-  ing  nothing,  went  along,  too-my  moth-  er,  my  older  brother  Bill,  and  I.  We  would  sit  on  the  grass,  when  it  was  dry  enough,  or  on  the  fence  that  surrounded  the  field,  and  watch  the  players,  in  their  jerseys  and  short  pants  and  unfamiliar  padding,  moving  vigorously  about-  kicking,  running,  tipping  the  ball  deft-  ly  off  the  topsof  their  heads.  IfI  ever  heard  the  names  of  any  of  the  teams,  I  do  not  recall  them.  I  was  too  young  then  to  inquire  about  such  things,  and  by  the  time  I  was  old  enough  to  wonder,  the  soccer  players  had  disappeared  and  only  small  boys  in  baseball  suits  or  en-  ergetic  high-school  teams  playing  Amer-  ican  football  ran  and  shouted  on  the  grassy  field  on  autumn  afternoons.  It  was  at  a  soccer  game  that  Bill  and  I  first  saw  the  Indian.  We  were  mak-  ing  the  round  of  the  field  that  day,  as  was  our  custom,  when  we  came  on  him.  I  still  remember  the  shock  of  that  mo-" b"ment.  We  had  seen  Indians  before,  on  movie  screens,  at  the  circus,  but  here,  all  at  once,  in  our  own  town,  in  a  prosaic  suburb  on  a  prosaic  Sunday  afternoon,  was  a  live  Indian,  a  real  one,  with  braids  and  moccasins.  It  was  true  that  he  wore  a  suit  of  dark  clothes  exactly  like  those  worn  byany  other  man  walking  the  streets  of  our  city,  but  the  face  was  broad  and  bronze  and  impassive,  unmis-  takable,  and  there  were  the  jet-black  braids  hanging  on  either  side  of  it,  and  the  moccasins  with  their  bright  pattern  of  beading.  I  clasped  Bill's  hand,  and  we  stood  there,  filled  with  joy  and  terror,  almost  unbelieving.  Young  as  we  were,  we  were  past  the  age  for  Santa  Claus,  and  I  suppose  for  a  moment  it  must  have  seemed  to  usthat  this,  too,  was  only  some  spurious  figure  like  the  white-  bearded,  round-bellied  Santas  we  toler-  ated  on  the  streets  and  in  the  depart-  ment  stores  at  Christmas.  But  it  was  only  for  a  moment.  The  heavy  dignity,  the  obsidian  eyes,  were  genuine;  even  we  could  not  doubt  that.  The  eyes  were  fixed  now  on  the  play-  ing  field.  There  were  other  spectators  standing  nearby,  shouting  and  cheering,  but  the  Indian  seemed  deaf  and  blind  to  them.  He  stood  there,  his  arms  folded  across  his  chest  in  the  classic,  familiar  pose,  and  stared  out  over  the  autumn  field,  with  its  leaping  figures  in  bright  jerseys,  as  if  he  were  watching  the  game  in  utter  solitude,  and  we  saw  that  no  shade  of  expression  crossed  his  face  when  one  of  the  teams  made  a  goal.  Bill  asked  me,  &quot;Where  did  he  come  from?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  He  might  have  walked  out  of  the  pages  of  a  book  or  off  a  movie  screen,  for  all  I  could  imagine.  On  a  girl's  reckless  impulse-Bill  was  more  cautious  than  I  was-I  dropped  down  on  my  hands  and  knees  and  crawled  around  stealthily,  behind  spec-  tators'  heels,  through  the  dry  fall  grass,  till  I  had  come  up  directly  behind  the  heavyset,  immobile  figure,  till  the  moc-  casins  were  so  close  to  my  eyes  that  I  could  see  the  color  of  every  bead  and  trace  the  careful,  elaborate  stitching.  The  Indian  never  moved,  yet  I  felt  cer-  tain  he  knew  that  I  was  there.  Presently,  I  retreated  asI  had  come,  and  Bill  and  I  ran  back  to  tell  our  par-  ents  of  our  discovery.  But  they  were  hardly  curious  and,  feeling  let  down,  Bill  and  I  withdrew  into  our  own  world.  We  did  not  speak  another  word  about  the  Indian  all  afternoon,  though  we  saw  no  more  of  the  game  or  of  the  other  spectators.  Our  attention  was  fastened  exclusively  on  our  Indian,  who" b"stood  there,  unmoving  and  impassive,  the  whole  time,  except  for  a  few  min-  utes  when  a  vender  came  by  selling  ice-cream  bars  wrapped  in  silver  foil  and  he  bought  one  and  unwrapped  it  and  ate  it.  He  ate  it  quickly  but  delib-  erately,  in  big  wolfish  bites,  and  then  folded  its  wrapping  up  carefully  and  put  it  into  one  of  his  pockets.  When  the  game  was  over,  he  walked  across  the  street  to  an  old  black  Model  T  Ford  that  was  parked  at  the  curb,  got  in,  and  drove  away.  I  think  it  was  seeing  him  driving  an  automobile  that  gave  us  the  first  truly  firm  conviction  of  his  reality  in  our  ev-  eryday  world.  Before  that,  we  would  not  have  been  surprised  to  see  him  fade  off  into  a  mistor  disappear  in  a  puff  of  smoke,  like  the  figures  in  a  magician's  act  we  had  once  watched  on  the  vaude-  ville  stage.  But  the  Model  T  was  some-  thing  we  could  grasp,  though  it  seemed  to  us  highly  inappropriate  for  an  Indian.  We  had  to  find  out  where  he  lived;  I  think  we  had  already  made  up  our  minds  to  that  by  the  time  we  saw  the  Indian  again  at  the  soccer  field  the  next  Sun-  day.  So,  at  the  end  of  the  game,  we  did  something  we  had  never  done  be-  fore;  we  ran  away,  or,  rather,  we  ran  after  the  Indian,  pursuing  the  Model  T  as  it  chugged  unhurriedly  along  the  street,  and  charging  desperately  around  corners  and  down  strange  sidewalks.  Fortunately,  he  drove  only  a  few  blocks  or  we  must  have  lost  him,  even  at  the  Model  T's  slow  pace.  As  it  was,  we  managed  to  keep  him  in  sight  till  he  stopped  the  automobile  before  a  house  on  one  of  those  strange  streets  and  got  out  and  went  inside.  The  house  he  entered  was  a  square,  wooden,  gray-  painted  one  with  a  sharply  pointed  roof-one  of  the  kind  of  houses  we  had  always  been  acquainted  with.  We  stood  there  looking  at  it;  as  the  home  of  an  Indian,  it  was  even  more  incredibleto  us  than  the  Model  T.  After  a  little  while,  a  woman-also  gray,  familiar-  looking-came  out  and  began  to  sweep  the  steps.  We  hung  there  on  the  side-  walk,  staring  at  her.  &quot;What  do  you  children  want?&quot;  she  called  to  us.  I  suppose  it  was  her  familiar  looks  that  gave  Bill  the  courage  to  speak,  and  he  saidto  her  almost  boldly,  as  if  he  were  challenging  her  to  deny  it,  &quot;An  Indian  went  in  your  house  just  now.&quot;  &quot;I  know  he  did,&quot;  the  woman  said.  &quot;He  lives  here.&quot;  Bill  was  silent,  but  I  gathered  my  own  courage  and  spoke  up.  &quot;Is  he  your  husband?&quot;  &quot;My  husband?&quot;  The  woman" b"chuckled  and  rested  her  broom  for  a  moment.  &quot;Why,  no,  honey,  heboards  here.  Haven't  you  ever  seen  anIndian  before?&quot;  &quot;Not  a  real  one.&quot;  She  must  have  felt  disposed  totalk  to  us,  because  she  went  on,  &quot;He's  a  Seneca.&quot;  We,  who  had  heard  of  Apaches  and  Comanches  and  Sioux  but  never  of  Senecas,  asked,  &quot;What  is  that?&quot;  &quot;It's  a  kind  of  Indian  tribe,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;They  used  to  live  somewheres  around  here-up  north,  I  think.&quot;&quot;  She  gestured  vaguely.  &quot;That's  where  Mr.  Corntassel  comes  from.&quot;  &quot;Mr.-what?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Mr.  Corntassel.  That's  his  name.&quot;  We  giggled.  &quot;Well,  I  guess  it  ain't  any  funnier  than  some  of  the  German  names  you  hear  around  here,&quot;  the  wom-  an  said  tolerantly.  &quot;Fassenbender  and  Schimmelpfennig  and  things  like  that.  You  kids  ain't  German,  are  you?&quot;  &quot;No,  Ma'am,&quot;  Bill  said.  &quot;What  does  this  Indian  do  all  day  in  your  house?&quot;  &quot;In  my  house?  Why,  he's  only  here  in  the  evenings  and  at  night,  honey.  He  works  down  at  one  of  those  commission  houses  on  Front  Street  all  day.  He's  a  kind  of  maintenance  man-well,  a  kind  of  janitor,  you  know.&quot;  Bill  and  I  looked  at  each  other.  The  only  janitor  we  knew  was  old  Mr.  Bauer  at  school,  with  his  watery  eyes  and  faded  mustache,  and  his  broom  and  mop,  and  his  grumbling  criticisms  of  children  who  ran  over  clean  floors  with  muddy  feet.  Mr.  Corntassel-even  his  name  had  little  of  the  wild  or  the  ro-  mantic  about  it-took  a  sudden  drop  in  our  esteem;  we  began  at  once  to  feel  cheated.  Our  disapproval  must  havebeen  evi-  dent  to  the  woman,  because  she  said  to  us,  almost  defensively,  &quot;Well,  he'sa  real  nice  man,  now,  I'll  tell  you,  Mr.  Corntassel  is.  Quiet  as  a  lamb-he  nev-  er  even  takes  a  glass  of  beer,  except  once  in  a  while  in  the  evening,  in  his  own  room.  ...&quot;  But  we  backed  away  from  her,  silent  now,  We  walked  home  silently  to  our  parents,  who  we  knew  would  be  wor-  ried  and  outraged  by  our  unexplained  disappearance.  When  they  questioned  us,  we  would  not  even  tell  them  the  reason  for  our  absence,  because  we  felt  that  we  might  make  ourselves  foolishin  their  eyes  if  we  explained  that  we  had  run  away  to  follow  a  man  who  worked  as  a  janitor  in  a  commission  house.  Mr.  Corntassel  appeared  at  the  soc-  cer  game  the  next  Sunday,  and  the  next,  but  neither  Bill  nor  I  gave  him  a  second  glance.  We  knew  he  was  standing  there," b"      in  hisclassic  pose,  with  his  braids  and  moccasins,  buthe  was  more  a  fraud  to  us  now  than  those  costumed  Santa  Clauses.  Bill  had  looked  up  &quot;Seneca&quot;  in  the  en-  cyclopedia  at  home  and  had  lit  on  the  Roman  philosopher  instead  of  the  In-  dian  tribe;  his  error  had  convinced  us  more  than  ever  that  either  the  Indian  or  the  woman  in  whose  house  he  lived  had  been  playing  some  trick  to  make  us  ridiculous.  ON  the  day  of  the  last  game  of  the  season-the  third  Sunday  after  we  had  followed  Mr.  Corntassel  home-  we  saw  him  again  at  the  soccer  game.  It  was  one  of  those  misty,  blue,  late-  autumn  days,  with  a  lazy  warmth  in  the  air  mingling  with  the  scent  and  haze  of  wood  smoke-Indian  summer.  I  think  Bill  and  I  knew  from  the  start  that  something  was  wrong,  although  there  was  nothing  much  different  about  Mr.  Corntassel's  looks.  He  seemed  a  little  more  remote  from  the  scene  he  was  watching,  that  was  all-as  if  the  bob-  bing,  darting  figures  before  him,  in  their  colored  jerseys,  had  faded  off  into  the  mellow  afternoon  haze  and  he  was  standing  there  all  alone.  Or  not  alone.  I  don't  know  when  it  was  that  we  began  to  realize  that  Mr.  Corntassel  was  seeing  something  we  did  not  see;  I  think  we,  with  our  children's  sensitivity  to  a  grown  person's  moods,  knew  it  first,  but  it  soon  became  evident  to  everyone  else  as  well.  'That  was  be-  tween  the  halves,  when  the  opposing  teams  had  just  begun  to  leave  the  field.  As  they  walked  off,  Mr.  Corntassel  walked  on.  He  walked  straight  out  to  the  center  of  the  field.  When  he  reached  there,  he  stooped  in  a  sudden  crouch  and  began  to  move  in  a  strange,  stealthy  sort  of  dance,  round  and  round  in  a  circle,  his  feet  shuffling,  his  head  flung  back  now  and  then  as  he  uttered  a  wailing  chant.  A  woman's  voice  said  sharply  behind  me,  &quot;Look  at  that  old  drunken  Indian.  What's  he  doing  out  there?  Somebody  ought  to  put  a  stop  to  that.&quot;  Her  voice  sounded  not  so  much  in-  dignant  as  startled,  frightened,  as  if  she  had  suddenly  wakened  to  find  herself  in  a  strange  house.  'That  was  how  I  felt  myself.  Mr.  Corntassel,  oblivious  in  the  performance  of  his  ancient  rite  out  there  in  the  center  of  the  field,  seemed  somehow  to  have  taken  possession  of  the  earth  on  which  we  stood.  I  wanted  to  run  away,  and  I  could  feel  the  others  aroundme,  too,  moving  uneasily.  All  the  while,  Mr.  Corntassel  stamped  out  the  strange,  secret,  triumphant  rhythm  of  his  dance  on  the  autumn  earth.  A  policeman  came  up  at  last,  and " b'some  of  the  soccer  players.  They  sur-  rounded  Mr.  Corntassel  so  that  we  could  not  see  him.  Then,  after  a  few  moments,  he  came  into  view  again,  his  back  to  us  as  the  policeman  led  him  away.  He  was  walking  a  little  unsteadi-  ly  now;  anybody  could  see  that  he  had  been  drinking.  I  heard  my  mother  ex-  changing  relieved,  disapproving  com-  ments  with  the  woman  behind  us,  and  soon  the  whole  incident  was  over.  The  players  took  the  field  again,  and  the  game  went  on.  HAT  was  the  last  any  of  us  ever  saw  of  Mr.  Corntassel.  The  fol-  lowing  year,  though  we  watched  for  him  at  the  soccer  games,  he  did  not  put  in  an  appearance.  Bill  and  I  spoke,  once  or  twice,  of  going  back  to  the  house  where  he  had  lived  and  questioning  the  landlady,  but  for  some  reason  we  never  did.  I  think  we  were  afraid,  not  of  Mr.  Corntassel  or  ofthe  woman,  but  of  los-  ing  what  we  had  felt  on  that  fall  after-  noon  as  we  watched  Mr.  Corntassel  drunk  doing  what  Mr.  Corntassel  sober,  who  worked  at  a  commission  house  and  drove  a  Model  T  Ford,  would  never  have  dreamed  of  doing.  Bill  and  I  seldom  talked  about  him  after  that  second  autumn.  I  think  I  might  have  forgotten  him  entirely  by  the  time  I  was  grown  if  it  had  not  been  for  the  feeling  that  still  comes  over  me  sometimes  in  strange  places  (Bill  has  it,  too)-a  kind  of  knowledge  of  what  it  is  to  be  an  American,  with  Mr.  Corntassel  and  the  soccer  players  and  the  autumn  field  somewhere  at  the  center  of  it:  a  memory  as  sharp  and  poignant  as  wood  smoke.  I  see  his  crouching  figure,  the  moccasins,  the  swinging  braids,  looming  somehow  spec-  tral  in  the  blue  autumn  haze  as  they  move  in  the  secret  ritual  ofthe  dance,  and  I  feel  theearth  grow  alien  beneath  my  feet.  &quot;Comfort  yourself  with  supermar-  kets,&quot;  Bill  says.  &quot;Hedge  yourself  in  with  television  antennas  and  big  [REDACTED]  cars.  But  do  you  remember  Mr.  Corn-  tassel?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Yes,  I  remember.&quot;'