 b"  IT  had  neverbeen  like  this  before,  never  as  bad,  never  as  arid.  He  watched  her  put  all  the  things  back  in  her  purse  that  she  had  taken  out  and  laid  on  the  table  in  her  careful  search  for  one  scrap  of  paper.  &quot;It  was  here,  I  know  it  was  here,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  know  because  asI  was  leaving  the  house  this  morning  I  made  sure.&quot;  &quot;It  was  in  your  purse  then?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Of  course.  No  question  about  it.&quot;  &quot;You  saw  it  in  your  purse?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  didn't  see  it  in  my  purse.  Not  then,  darling.  Not  at  that  exact  mo-  ment.  I  didn't  stop  on  the  porch  and  take  everything  out  the  way  I've  just  been  doing.  I  didn't  have  to,  because  less  than  a  half  an  hour  earlier  it  was  there  on  my  dressing  table  with  all  the  other  things,  all  this  stuff.  I  have  this  little  sort  of  bin,  where  I  keep  all  my  purses  and  handbags.  I  have  all  the  nice  ones,  the  beaded  ones  and  the  brocaded  ones,  all  wrapped  in  tissue  paper.  But  of  course  I  wasn't  going  to  carry  one  of  those  today.  'They're  mostly  for  eve-  ning.  'The  leather  ones  and  the  cloth  ones,  like  this  one,  they're  all  arranged  in  little  piles,  according  to  color.  This  one-I  have  seven  or  eight  black  ones,  cloth  and  leather,  and  this  one  was  at  the  bottom  of  the  pile  of  black,  but  I  wanted  to  take  this  with  me  today  be-  cause  it  goes  better  with  this  dress.  You  probably  wouldn't  notice,  but  this  is  grosgrain  and  it  almost  matches  the  material  in  my  dress.  Not  on  close  in-  spection,  of  course.  They  don't  exactly  match.  I  wouldn't  want  them  to,  ex-  actly.  But  they  go  well  together.  In  fact-this  may  sound  crazy-but  the  first  thing  that  came  to  my  mind  when  I  saw  this  dress-I  had  a  purse  to  match  it!  I  don't  ordinarily  buy  a  dress  that  way.  Usually  the  other  way  around.  It  wouldn't  be  very  sensible  to  pay  that  much  for  a  dress  because  it  matches  one  of  your  handbags.&quot;  &quot;You  had  no  occasion  to  take  the  clipping  out  of  your  purse  on  the  train?&quot;  &quot;Why  should  I?  I  had  my  round-trip  ticket  in  this  little  pocket,  and  when  the  conductor  came  I  handed  him  the  tick-  et-see,  here's  the  other  half  of  the  ticket.&quot;  &quot;In  the  ladies'  room,  when  you  took  out  your  lipstick,&quot;  he  said.  She  shook  her  head.  &quot;I  can't  imagine  what's  become  of  it.  I  don't  usually  lose  things.  I  know  thisisn't  lost.  It'll  turn  up  in  some  perfectly  logical  place.  But  it's  annoying  to  have  this  happen.&quot;  &quot;You  might  as  well  tell  me  what  it  said.&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  certainly  isn't  worth  mak-ing  all  this  fuss  about,.  The  only  thing  was,  you  had  to  read  the  whole  thing  to  get  the  humor  of  it.&quot;  &quot;What  kind  of  thing  was  it?&quot;  &quot;It  was  an  account  of  a  wedding.  It  was  in  yesterday's  Times,  on  the  society  page.  I  didn't  know  either  of  the  fam-  ilies,  but  I  usually  skim  through  to  see  if  any  of  the  bridesmaids  are  friends  of  Meg's,  or  sometimes  the  ushers.  Yow  know.  Big  weddings  there's  always  someone  you  know,  and  this  one  had  about  ten  bridesmaids  and  tenor  more  ushers.  One  of  the  ushers  was  the  broth,  er  of  a  girl  that's  in  school  with  Meg,  so  it  had  some  personal  interest  for  me.  Anyway,  this  boy  and  girl  that  were  getting  married,  it  told  all  about  her  family.  Grandfather  was  a  Supreme  Court  judge  in  [REDACTED]  or  [REDACTED],  and  descended  from  somebody  a  mem-  ber  of  some  august  body  in  Virginia.&quot;  &quot;'The  House  of  Burgesses?&quot;  &quot;Probably.  And  father  was  president  of  some  company  that  I  didn't  recog-  nize.  And  where  she  went  to  school.  Foxcroft,  and  one  of  the  junior  colleges  and  someplace  abroad.  And  then  the  boy.  All  about  his  grandparents  and  great-grandparents,  who  they  were.  You  could  almost  hear  the  one  family  say,  well  if  they  were  going  to  brag  about  their  ancestry,  we'd  do  a  little  bragging  of  our  own.  And  it  was  all  there.  Signer  of  the  Declaration  of  In-  dependence.  Founder  of  some  little  col-  lege  I  never  heard  of.  And  then  a  list  of  the  boy's  clubs.  The  Racquet.  Sea-  wanhaka.  Piping  Rock.  Some  club  in  [REDACTED].  Porcellian.  It  was  all  there.  Oh,  and  of  course  St.  Paul's  and  Har-  vard,  and  Buckley.  Then  at  the  very  end,  where  they  were  going  to  live.  An  apartment  house  that  I  happen  to  know  is  cooperative,  no  apartment  in  the  build-  ing  worth  less  than  a  quarter  of  a  mil-  lion.  We  looked  at  it  several  years  ago,  but  it  was  far  beyond  us.  'The  smallest  apartment  in  the  building  was  ten  rooms,  so  you  can  imagine.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Then-I'm  sure  it  was  completely  by  accident-but  in  the  very  next  line,  no  separation  of  any  kind,  but  as  if  it  belonged  in  the  article,this  one  line.  'Give  to  the  Hundred  Neediest  Cases.  When  I  saw  that,  I  just  burst  out  laughing.  I'm  sure  it  wasn't  intentional,  but  it  made  the  whole  article  seem  so  ridicu-  lous.  It  just  struck  my  sense  of  humor,  and  I  cut  it  out  purposely  to  show  you.  And  now  I  can't  find  the  damn  thing.  So  irritating,  because  it's  one  of  those  things  you  have  to  see.&quot;  &quot;It  is  very  funny,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Well,  if  you  happen  to  have  that  kind  of  a  sense  of  humor.  I  knew  you'd  appreciate  it,&quot;  she  said.  She  put  her  hand  on  his  knee.  &quot;Darling?&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;I  have  some  bad  news  for  you,  for  both  of  us.'  u\xe2\x80\x98AThat;  H  &quot;I  can't  see  you  this  afternoon.&quot;  &quot;What's  the  trouble?&quot;  he  said,  but  what  he  almost  said  was,  &quot;You  brought  me  all  the  way  uptown  to  show  me  a  clipping  that  you  can't  even  find?&quot;  He  was  so  close  to  saying  it  that  for  one  sec-  ond  he  was  not  sure  it  had  not  slipped  out.  &quot;I  called  your  office,  but  you'd  al-  ready  started  uptown.  Mother  asked  me  to  go  with  her  to  the  hospital.  She's  go-  ing  in  for  a  checkup  and  I'm  meeting  her  at  half  past  two.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  that  takes  precedence,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;There'll  be  other  times,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;She  doesn't  ask  me  to  do  very  much,  and  the  fact  that  she  asked  me  to  go  with  her  this  time  shows  she  must  be  worried.  She's  seventy-four.  It's  her  heart.  I  have  to  stop  and  pick  up  a  bed  jacket  I  ordered  for  her,  so  if  you'll  get  the  check-or  maybe  you'd  rather  stay  and  have  a  drink  with  Larry  Campbell.  I  saw  him  wave  to  you.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  will  stay,  if  you  don't  mind,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  sorry  about  your  mother.  I  hope  it  turns  out  all  right.&quot;  She  squeezed  his  knee  in  farewell,  and  left  him,  and  on  the  way  out  she  waved  to  Larry  Campbell  at  the  bar.  Campbell  immediately  joined  him.  &quot;Hello,  Roger,&quot;  said  Campbell.  &quot;Why  is  Dorothy  in  such  a  rush?&quot;  &quot;Taking  her  mother  to  the  hospital  fora  checkup.  If  you're  going  to  have  a  drink  with  me  you'd  better  make  it  quick.  I  have  to  get  back  to  the  office.&quot;  &quot;Don't  flatter  yourself,  old  boy.  All  I  want  from  you  is  your  table.  I've  been  standing  there  over  a  half  an  hour.&quot;  &quot;Well,  you  can  have  the  table.  You  can  have  the  check,  too,  if  you  like.  It'll  be  about  fourteen  dollars,  without  tips.  How've  you  been?&quot;  &quot;O.K.  Doing  as  well  as  I  have  any  right  to  expect,  I  guess.  You  know  I  was  thinking,  standing  at  the  bar,  that  Dorothy  is  really  a  remarkable  woman.  How  many  of  the  girls  we  used  to  know  have  held  up  as  well  as  she  has?  " b"She's  a  good  forty-five.  I  know  that  for  a  fact.  She's  three  years  young-  er  than  Edwina,  but  she  doesn't  look  forty.  She  doesn't  look  any  age.  I  suppose  if  I  weren't  such  a  tactful  fellow  1d  have  to  give  you  some  of  the  credit.&quot;  &quot;'Yeah,  you're  noted  for  your  tact,  Larry.&quot;  &quot;Well,  what  the  hell?  How  many  guys  with  an  office  down-  town  will  take  time  out  to  come  all  the  way  up  here  for  lunch?  You  and  I  don't  have  to  make  a  big  thing  of  it,  and  asfar  as  that  goes,  you  and  Dorothy  don't  go  out  of  your  way  to  make  a  secret  of  it.  You  never  have.  After  all  these  years  you're  prac-  tically  an  institution,  you  two.&quot;  &quot;Isn't  that  nice?&quot;  &quot;I  think  it  is.  Some  people  don't,  but  you  and  Dorothy  are  a  lot  more  honest  than  some  of  those  people  that  take  a  high  and  mighty  view  of  it.&quot;  &quot;Did  I  hear  you  say  you  were  going  to  pay  this  check,or  are  you  getting  my  table  for  nothing?&quot;  &quot;What'd  you  say  it  was?  Fourteen  dollars?  All  right,  ll  take  care  of  it.  It's  a  pleasure  to  pay  for  Dorothy's  lunch,  and  I  hope  you  remember  to  tell  her.  When  you  ser  her,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;So  long,  Larry,&quot;  said  Roger.  E  had,  accidentally,  a  free  after-  noon,  so  completely  free  that  he  could  think  of  nothing  more  original  to  do  than  to  sink  into  a  chair  in  the  club  library,  where  he  was  not  likely  to  be  bothered.  As  always,  when  he  was  meeting  Dorothy,  he  had  so  carefully  arranged  things  at  the  office  that  to  show  up  now  would  be  to  create  some  doubt  when  he  made  such  arrange-  ments  in  the  future.  And  already  it  had  been  a  trying  day.  It  was  quieter  than  a  church  in  the  club  library.  The  librarian  moved  about,  but  the  high-pile  carpeting  muffled  his  steps,  and  Roger  was  not  acquainted  with  the  other  two  members  in  the room,  one  at  a  writing  desk,  the  other  taking  a  nap.  Roger  had  almost  for-  gotten  that  there  could  be  such  quiet,  such  peace,  in  the  middle  ofthe  city.  It  had  been  atryingday,  she  had  been  at  her  worst,  and  at  one  point  during  her  chatter  he  had  been  tempted  to  say,  &quot;Will  you  for  God's  sake  shut  up.&quot;  Lunch  in  a  public  restaurant  was  apart  of  their  meetings  that  she  had  insisted  uponfrom  the  very  beginning.  (&quot;We  can  always  say  we  were  having  lunch,  and  it  will  be  the  truth.&quot;)  A  secondary  partof  their  lunches  was  that  they  must  always  be  seen  saying  goodbye  in  the  restaurant,  and  she  looked  upon  it  as  a  piece  of  luck  when  someone  like  Larry  Campbell  could  join  Roger  after  she  left.  It  was  up  to  him  to  manage  to  shake  free  of  people  like  Larry.  He  had  willingly  cooperated  in  all  these  ritual-  istic  deceptions,  but  for  a  year  now  her  37  chatter  had  been  barely  endurable.  It  had  never  been  scintillating,  stim-  ulating.  It  had  always  belonged  with  the  pub-  lic  Dorothy,  the  girl  and  then  the  woman  who  had  gone  from  pretty  girl  to  beautiful  woman  and  in  looks  was  the  gainer.  But  there  had  been  no  major  change  in  the  thoughts  she  ut-  tered.  He  had  never  known  a  time  when  she  said  anything  worth  re-  peating,  worth  remem-  bering.  It  was  a  child's  mind  she  had,  and  his  desire  for  her  had  begun  as  a  simple  and  fierce  admiration  of  her  face  and  body.  Whatever  he  had  to  give  up  to  get  her  he  was  willing  to  give  up-and  then  it  turned  out  that  he  had  to  give  up  almost  noth-  ing.  She,  it  turned  out,  loved  him  as  well,  and  did  not  wish  to  love  anyone  else.  He  remembered,  he  would  never  be  able  to  forget,  their  first  time  together.  He  took  her  in  his  arms  and  kissed  her,  and  the  frankness  of  her  embrace  was  so  true  that  he  waited  for  her  to  say  something  child-  ish,  coquettish.  It  was  what  he  expected,  and  his  right  to  be  annoyed  was  one  of  the  things  he  had  been  prepared  to  give  up.  But  she  had  not  been  childish  or  coquettish.  None  ofthat  was  present  that  day  or  ever  during  the  thousand  times  they  had  made  love.  In  those  moments  she  was  womanly  proud,  of  her  body,  of  her  beauty,  and  of  being  loved  by  the  man  she  loved.  These  were  her  mo-  ments  of  peace  and  calm,  and  they  were  what  he  remembered  between  one  meeting  and  the  next.  He  longed  for  her  now,  and  he  would  always  long  for  her,  no  matter  what.  He  went  to  a  writing  desk  and  took  out  a  sheet  of  club  stationery,  and  wrote  the  first  thing  that  came  to  his  mind:  &quot;I  love  you,  Dorothy.  Please  forgive  me.&quot;  It  did  not  matter  that  she  would  never  see  what  he  had  written.  He  had  written  it,  and  he  felt  forgiven,  and  there  would  be  other  times. "