 b"FIRST  he  built  a  tree  house  that  Fsummer.  His  name  was  Peter  Something-or-Other,  one  of  those  names  like  Smith  or  Johnson  that  take  those  who  share  them  into  a  jolly  obscurity  when  they  grow  up;  it  would  be  on  the  list  of  the  bank's  recreation,  club  committee,  or  the  mine's  long-  service  roll.  This  was  the  last  tree  house  of  his  life,  and  so  really  rathertoo  elab-  orate.  It  extended,  L-shaped,  on  the  limb  ofthe  big  jacaranda  tree  that  stretched  out  beyond  the  wire-mesh  fence  of  the  house  into  which  his  family  had  recently  moved  with  an  Airedale,  two  pet  geese,  and  a  breeding  cage  of  budgerigars.  When  the  house  in  the  tree  was  finished,  he  sat  about  in  it  for  an  afternoon  or  two,  and  then  said  he  had  made  it  for  his  small  brother.  After  that,  he  entered  it  only  occasional-  ly  and  with  an  unsafe  weight  of  friends,  when  they  lay  up  there  in  the  late  after-  noon  to  drop  peach  pits  on  the  heads  of  the  black  kitchen  boys  strolling  up  to  gather  round  one  of  their  number  who  played  a  guitar  sitting  below  in  the  gutter.  Farther  up  the  same  street,  Cavada  Kinschotter  lived  with  her  father-a  lawyer-her  mother,  and  several  young-  er  children.  Her  own  name  was  one  that  her  parents  had  invented  to  honor  some  private  enthusiasm  or  to  com-  memorate  some  meaningful  event  in  their  lives,  and  the  obscure  origins  of  her  surname  were  lost  in  the  misspellings  ofa  country  populated  by  cosmopoli-  tan  immigration.  The  previous  year,  a  friendship  had  flourished  between  her  and  Renee  Verhaern,  a  neighbor  who  was  the  daughter  of  a  foreign-trade  official.  Then  there  came  the  time  when  Cavada  began  to  go  home  every  day  from  school  with  another  girl,  who  lived  in  a  suburb  eight  miles  away;  Cavada's  father  used  to  have  to  pick  her  up  in  his  car  when  he  came  from  his  chambers,  but  at  least,  as  her  mother  said,  they  knew  where  she  was.  Her  mother  and  father  always  had  to  know  where  she  was,  though  she  seldom  knew  where  they  were.  Cavada  rode  up  and  down  the  street  in  the  brief  twilight,  standing  on  the  pedals  of  her  bicycle  and  aware  of  noth-  ing  but  the  motion  of  her  passage  through  the  air  lifting  and  lowering  her  hair  over  her  ears.  She  wore  a  stiff  nylon  petticoat  under  her  school  dress  this  year,  and  one  evening  she  met  Renee,  wearing  one,  too.  The  friend-  ship  began  again  without  any  awkward-  ness  left  over  from  its  failure  in  the  past-they  had  been  two  children  carry-  ing  shoeboxes  of  dolls'  clothes  to  each  other's  houses  then-and  every  after-  noon  they  zigzagged  across  the  asphalt  in  the  streets  and  left  a  spoor  of  tires  in  the  soft  red  dust  of  the  lanes  thatran,  under  stooping  loquat  and  acacia,  be-  tween  each  double  row  of  houses  that  made  a  block.  Sixty  years  ago,  the  first  rich  men  built  the  houses  of  this  neigh-  borhood-the  houses  of  adventurers  and  prospectors  from  England  and  [REDACTED]  become  chairmen  and  direc-  tors  of  African  gold-mining  companies.  Ordinary  suburban  bungalows  had  been  put  up  long  ago  in  their  subdivided  gar-  dens,  and  the  stables  were  converted  into  garages;  some  of  thetennis  courts  were  still  in  use.  The  lanes  belonged  to  the  children  and  the  servants.  The  gig-  gles  and  the  exchange  of  exclamations  of  the  two  girls,  the  gamblers  in  aprons  and  gardeners'  overalls  round  the  dice,  the  sagging  fence  through  which  cus-  tomers  for  back-vard  beer  slipped  in  and  out,  the  banked  privacy  of  garden  rubbish  heaps  and  collapsing  outhouses  smelling  of  ash  and  coolness,  did  not  exist  for  the  masters  and  mistresses  of  the  houses.  Stones  flew  up  from  the  lanes  onto  a  lawn  sometimes,  and  cries,  drunken  or  angry,  in  one  of  those  languages  familiar  to  the  ear  butnot  understood;  the  sad  suburban  dogs  woke  from  their  sleep  and  flew  bark-  ing  down  the  gardens.  A  tramp  came  along  there  sometimes  a  white  tramp  rimed  and  encrusted  with  filth  like  a  marble  statue  on  an  old  building.  He  saw  no  one,  black  or  white,  man  or  child,  and  the  springy  monotony  of  the  kitchen  boy's  guitar  (alwaysheard  fromsome  direction  in  the  neighborhood)  did  not  affect  with  melancholy  or  rhythm  that  shamble  that  carried  the  tramp  no-  where.  &quot;What  did  you  do  with  yourself  this  afternoon?&quot;  her  parents  would  ask  Cavada.  &quot;Oh,  nothing.  Just  went  about  on  my  bike.&quot;  &quot;Cavada,  I  hope  you  don't  ride  around  the  main  road  at  this  time,  when  the  traffic's  so  heavy.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  We  just  go  up  and  down  the  lane,  and  our  street,  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;Where  have  you  been?&quot;  &quot;Just  on  my  bike.&quot;  The  parents  were  tired  from  the  long  day  of  faces  and  decisions  when  they  came  home,  and  they  sat  on  the  veran-  da  and  drank  whiskey.  Their  eyes     B9  looked  as  if  they  were  seeing  an  invis-  ible  crowd.  After  the  whiskey  and  the  newspaper,  they  were  strong  enough  again  to  go  out,  or  to  entertain  friends  whose  departure,  later,  might  wake  sleepers  in  the  night,  as  the  milkman  did.  Cavada  sat  with  her  legs  dangling  over  the  ledge  of  the  veranda  for  awhile  and  listened  to  her  parents  with  an  in-  comprehension  that  became  a  kind  of  passivity.  The  younger  children  ignored  them,  except  for  taking  comfort  in  their  physical  presence,  and  were  absorbed  in  games  of  their  own.  But  she  was  old  enough  now  for  it  to  be  necessary  to  censor  what  was  said  before  her.  The  two  of  them  did  this  by  talking  about  whatever  they  wished  but  using  ellipsis  and  implications  that  bobbed  toward  her  and  away  like  the  fir  cone  on  a  string  with  which  she  sometimes  teased  the  dog  until  he  would  turn  aside,  half  hypnotized  and  forgetting  what  it  was  he  was  supposed  to  be  trying  for.  &quot;Oh,  you're  thinking  of  the  business  during  the  1957  caucus.&quot;  &quot;No,  I'm  not.  I'd  call  that  simply  expedient.  It's  fine  if  he  knows  what's  good  forthe  party.  But  does  he  know  what's  good  for  himself?  Even  in  his  personal  life,  I  mean.  It  wasn't  too  dis-  creet  to  recuperate  in  the  same  hotel  as  the  other  one.&quot;  &quot;Not  the  same  hotel  at  all.  Why  do  you  exaggerate?&quot;  &quot;Comes  to  the  same  thing.  Oh,  I  know-Caesar's  wife,  and  so  on.  But  only  too  often  she  isn't.  And  people  get  their  con-  fidence  in  a  man  like  him  from  a  number  of  things;  small  things  create  an  image-&quot;  &quot;Look,  he'll  never  have  that  popular  image  any-  way.  A  demagogue  never  changes  his  mind  unless  he  knows  beforehand  how  he's  going  to  make  the  rest  change  theirs,  too.  Whereas,  he-&quot;  Cavada  got  up  and  went  into  the  back  yard  and  took  her  bicycle.  It  was  pink  in  the  street.  The  sun  had  gone  down,  first  beyond  this  level  of  trees,  then  beyond  the  shape  of  this  house  and  that.  The  street  was  as  friendly  as  a  room  to  her.  A  hand  waved;  her  friend  Renee  had  just  turned  the  corner.  They  rode  together  past  the  big  old  house  that  had  been  furbished,  tended,  and  repaired  for  the  Verhaerns,  and  down  to  the  end  of  the  street,  past  an  even  grander  house  that  had  gone  to  ruin.  It  had  wooden  balconies,  a  turret  with  stained-glass  windows,  and  a  double  flight  of  steps  at  the  entrance,  curling  outward  to  stone  urns.  Khaki  weed  choked  the  oleander  " b"in  the  garden,  and  in  one  pla  ce  the  fancy  railings  were  torn  apart,  the  splin-  tered  wood  sticking  up  and  out  around  nothi  ng,  as  i  f  someone  had  just  fallen  through.  The  ho  use  ha  d  late  ly  been  a  boarding  house,  an  old  people's  home,  and  a  nursery  school,  for  sho  rter  and  shorter  tenancies.  It  was  empty  now,  except  for  outcast  cats  that  sometimes  appeared  fro  m  the  dark  hole  that  led  down  into  the  cellar.  Next  door  was  the  bungalow  where  n  ew  people  had  moved  in  that  summer,  and  as  the  girls  rode  under  the  leaning  jacaranda,  a  sho  wer  of  small  stones  landed  in  their  hair.  &quot;Think  you're  funny,  don  't  you?&quot;  They  ha  d  the  fury  ,  the  self-righteous-  ness,  and  the  bridling  disdain  of  girls  of  thirteen.  But  they  did  no  t  go  away,  At  last,  the  boys  came  down  fro  m  the  tree  h  ouse  ,  and  the  jeers  qui  cten  ed  and  be-  came  more  insulting.  Two  of  them  were  boys  they  knew,  Bobby  Marks  and  Alec  Sutherland,  and  the  third  was  the  new  one  they'd  seen  about.  Th  e  others  called  him  Peter;  he  was  a  tall  boy  with  a  slender  waist,  in  lon  g  gray  pants  like  a  grown-  up,  and  he  said  quictly,  &quot;We're  only  fooling  .  Forget  it,  man.  Can't  you  f  orget  it?&quot;  They  avoided  the  cor-  ner  where  the  tree  house  was,  after  that.  But  on  the  neutral  ground  of  the  l  ane,  they  often  saw  the  boys.  &quot;Seeing  the  boys&quot;  meant  riding  slowly,  ris-  ing  and  falling  measured-  ly  on  the  pedals,  to  the  place  where  the  boys  took  to  hanging  about.  They  had  their  bicycles,  too,  propped  against  the  out-  crop  of  rock  that  en  ded  someone's  garden.  'The  girls  a  lways  remained  astride  their  bicycles  while  they  talked.  Hands  on  the  handlebars  ,  one  sandal  in  the  dust,  the  other  on  a  peda  l-t  his  attitude  of  fle  xed  knee  and  sturdy  down  -stretched  leg  was  part  of  the  dressage  b  y  wh  ich  their  relations  hi  p  to  their  mounts  was  codi-  fied  and  their  intentions  were  indicated.  It  clearly  defined,  however  long  they  lingered  and  how-  ever  friendly  they  might  be,  that  they  accepted  nothing  of  the  f  raternizati  on  that  dis-  mounting  implies,  but  remained  ready  for  their  o  wn  pursuits;  they  had  only  to  whip  up  and  away.  In  the  meantime,  the  conversations  had  the  charm  of  things  that  never  officially  begin  and  so  have  no  end  .  &quot;And  when  he  le  ans  over  to  see  if  the  fish  is  hooked,  and  there's  th  e  top  of  t  he  submar  ine  coming  up-&quot;  &quot;And  it  pushes  his  nos  e  back  and  back,  man,  and  the  boat  falls  over!&quot;  The  younger  boys  des  cribed  wit  h  full  sound  effects  the  films  they  had  seen,  imitating  jet  planes  taking  off,  me  n  gibbering  with  fear,  or  women  pleading  for  merc  y  .  Older  boys,  like  Peter,  the  new  one  from  the  corner,  enjoyed  th  e  performance  but  had  lost  the  k  nack  and  employed  a  straight  nar-  rative  that  had  not  yet  made  up  in  vo-  cabu  lary  what  it  had  lost  in  grunts  and  yells.  Sometim  es  someone  told  a  tale  from  hom  e,  usually  of  some  possession- a new car,  an  uncl  e  w  ho  had  a  boat  ,  the  promise  o  f  a  transi  stor  r  adio.  Now  and  then,  the  talk  submerged  and  marked  time.  You  did  say  that.&quot;  &quot;I  did  not.&quot;  &quot;You  did.&quot;  &quot;I  te  ll  you  I  did  not.&quot;  &quot;Liar.&quot;  &quot;Liar  yours  el  f.&quot;  &quot;Look  out  who  you're  calling  a  liar.&quot;  &quot;Liar  yourself.&quot;  T  hen  someone  w  ould  turn  suddenly  from  his  contemplation  of  the  dust  and  say,  &quot;You  remember  that  bit  when  Dean  Martin  com  es  in  to  th  at  offic  e,  or  somethin  g-&quot;  \xc2\xabS'not  an  office,  you  dope,  it's  a  s  ports  shop.&quot;  And  so  conver  s  ation  w  ould  revive.  PETER  and  Alec  began  to  ride  down  to  Cavada's  back  gate,  on  afternoons  when  she  did  not  appear,  and  whistle  for  her.  &quot;Cavie's  boy  friends  are  calling  her,&quot;  said  one  of  the  younger  )  children  one  evening.  &quot;Oh,  rubbish,  those  kids  in  the  street,&quot;  she  said,  laughing  and  drawn  swiftly  upright.  Her  mother  put  down  the  newspaper  and  looked  at  her.  Only  rarely  now  did  she  sit  on  the  veranda  with  the  family  at  the  end  of  the  day.  She  sat  in-  stead  up  in  her  bedroom,  on  top  of  a  low  bookcase  made  of  bricks  and  planks;  there  were  no  books  on  the  shelves  but       a  collection  of  china  or-  naments  and  a  pile  of  film  magazines  that  she  was  grateful  to  get  third-hand  from  other  children.  From  this  perch  (which  in  time  she  made  com-  fortable  with  an  old  cur-  tain  folded  up  for  a  cush-  ion  and  some  pictures  of  rock-'n'-roll  singers  stuck  on  the  wall  near  the  win-  dow)  she  could  see  the  tops  of  people's  heads  as  they  passed  up  the  street  under  the  trees.  When  the  whistles  came,  she  went  downstairs  and  out  of  the  house,  disappear-  ing  around  corners  as  quietly  as  a  cat  and  shut-  ting  doors  softly  behind  her.  She  leaned  against  " b"the  back  gate  in  a  timeless  murmur  of  talk  until  the  servant  in  the  kitchen  yelled  out  of  a  window  to  her  that  dinner  was  ready,  and  she  turned  and  came  flying  into  the  dim  house  as  if  she  had  come  from  a  long  way.  N  the  leaves  of  a  group  of  giant  aloes  that  had  been  thrown  onto  someone's  rubbish  pile  but  had  fallen  down  the  bank  of  the  lane  and  taken  root,  someone  had  carved  two  hearts  with  the  legend  &quot;C  loves  P.&quot;  Some  of  these  had  been  scored  across,  and  be-  tween  them  was  scratched  &quot;Go  to  hell.  So  what!!!&quot;  The  smooth  surface  of  the  great  leaves  gave  easily  to  a  penknife  or  a  pin,  and  the  lesions  in  the  flesh  beneath  bled  a  pale  lymph  that  dried  and  shrank,  drawing  the  cut  lines  into  a  scar.  Each  leaf  ended  in  a  witch's  fingernail  of  long  polished  thorn,  and  the  inscriptions  would  be  there  as  long  as  the  aloes  lived.  An  old  Zulu  often  sat  at  this  spot  in  the  lane.  His  ear  lobes,  where  he  had  once  worn  inlaid  discs,  were  empty  loops.  He  could  not  read  English,  but  he  was  busy  recording  on  the  lid  of  a  cardboard  box  his  list  of  wins  and  losses  on  the  daily  Fah-Fee  game-a  version  of  the  numbers  racket-run  by  the  local  Chinese.  The  children  were  discussing  him  one  day.  It  began  with  some  sup-  positions  about  his  ears-whether  the  lobes  would  grow  together  again  if  they  were  sewn  up.  Then  there  was  a  dif-  ference  of  opinion  about  the  way  the  numbers  game  worked.  They  had  all  seen  the  Chinaman  come  to  collect  the  bets;  he  came  up  the  lane  sometimes  in  a  car.  Bobby  said  he  had  talked  to  the  Chinaman  and  knew  how  the  game  was  run;  he  was  a  boy  alert  tobets  and  dares.  They  wrangled  for  a  while,  the  girls  contributing  nothing  but  a  vague  parti-  sanship  for  what  a  particular  boy  said,  based  not  on  any  knowledge  of  the  sub-  ject  of  gambling  but  on  personal  favor  or  revenge.  Alec,  who  was  small  for  his  age  and  had  a  pretty  face,  said  that  he  knew  a  better  game  than  that,  man.  Peter  said,  &quot;Cut  it  out,  Alec,&quot;  ina  stern  and  private  tone.  &quot;Oh,  it's  stupid,  man,&quot;  said  Graham,  a  boy  who  often  set  off  an  argument  but  never  succeeded  in  holding  attention  for  himself.  &quot;Well,  I  bet  you  never  played.&quot;  &quot;Gee,  I'd  like  to  have  a  shilling  for  every  time.&quot;  &quot;When?  Since  when?  Just  tell  me!&quot;  Alec  laughed.  One  of  the  other  boys  turned  on  Alec.  &quot;He  makes  me  sick.  Always  talk-  ing  such  big  stuff.  Why  don't  you  grow  up,  twerp?&quot;  The  girls  watched  the  exchange  with nervous  attention,  half  hoping  for  some  knowledge  that  gossip  might  let  fall.  &quot;Perhaps  you've  heard  of  a  certain  cellar.&quot;  Alec's  pretty  face  was  baiting  them  all-those  who  did  not  want  to  be  reminded  of  the  matter,  and  those  who  didn't  know  what  was  being  re-  ferred  to.  &quot;Cut  it  out,  Alec,  man,&quot;  Peter  pro-  tested,  and  grabbed  the  smaller  boy  by  the  arm,  but  the  laughing  face  and  the  clutchof  the  boy's  other  hand  on  his  own  shoulder  seemed  to  disarm  him  and  he  began  to  grin,  too,  in  spite  of  himself.  &quot;What's  this  cellar  got  to  do  with  it,  anyway?&quot;  someone  asked.  &quot;What  are  you  talking  about?  Where  is  the  cellar?&quot;  It  was  one  of  those  times  when  voices  rose  suddenly  in  the  lane  like  adust  devil.  On  the  sidelines,  Renee  yelled  with  sudden  deprecation,  &quot;Oh,  I  can  guess!  Tll  bet  they'retalking  about  the  cellar  in  the  empty  house  next  to  Peter's  place!  Just  a  dirty  old  cellar  where  the  mangy  cats  live.  What's  interesting  about  that,  I'd  like  to  know.  Alec,  you  bore  me  stiff,  honestly.&quot;  &quot;Come  down  with  me  and  see  what's  interesting,  Gorgeous,&quot;  Alec  said  at  once.  &quot;Come  down.  Then  you'll  know  what  cellar  I'm  talking  about.&quot;  He  opened  his  smiling  mouth,  and  his  curled-up  tongue  tested  consideringly  along  the  edges  of  his  white  teeth.  Cavada  always  watched  the  effect  that  her  friend's  confident  words  hadon  the  others.  She  was  emboldened  to  add  a  gibe  of  her  own.  &quot;I  suppose  he  drinks  kaffir  beer  down  there  with  the  natives!  My  father  says  there'sa  regular  shebeen  going  on  around  here,  and  it's  most  probably  in  that  house.  There're  always  drunk  natives  walking  past  our  house  at  night.  He's  going  to  get  the  police  to  see  about  it.&quot;  &quot;Old  Alec  drinks  kaffir  beer!  Alec  drinks  kaffir  beer!&quot;  &quot;Ha  ha.  What  a  sense  of  humor.&quot;  Golden  eyelashes  showed  against  his  cheek  as  he  looked  down,  getting  some-  thing  out  of  his  pocket.  It  was  a  pack  of  cards.  He  began  dealing  them  out  on  the  ground.  He  was  very  efficient.  &quot;Every  " b"time  you  lose,  you  have  to  take  some-  thing  off.&quot;  They  were  all  quiet  now.  Cavada  did  not  know  how  to  play,  but  when  they  said  put  this  down,  pickthat  one  up,  she  did.  Peter  lost  and  took  off  a  shoe;  Renee,  when  she  lost,  made  a  face  and  took  off  her  hair  ribbon.  Alec  was  bare-  foot;  he  took  off  his  shirt.  Cavada  lost  her  sandals  and  the  next  time  said,  &quot;I  can't  take  off  anything  more.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes!&quot;  &quot;You  have  to!&quot;  &quot;You've  got  to!&quot;  The  faces  of  the  boys  surrounded  her.  &quot;Your  stiff  petticoat,  Cav,&quot;  said  her  friend,  in  triumph.  &quot;Just  slip  it  off  from  under  your  dress.&quot;  She  did  so  with  a  flourish,  waving  it  in  the  air  as  she  stepped  out  of  it.  Soon  the  other  girl  lost  hers.  'They  hung  around  each  other's  necks,  laughing.  &quot;We're  going  now.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  You've  got  to  finish  the  game,&quot;  said  Bobby,  who  was  not  play-  ing.  &quot;We'll  finish  it  off  in  the  cellar.  That's  the  place  for  games  with  girls,  hey,  Peter?&quot;  said  Alec.  &quot;Lastweek,  three  girls  beat  us,  and  we  had  to  run  for  it,  man.&quot;  &quot;What  happens  if  someone  comes  down  here  and  sees  our  petticoats?&quot;  said  Cavada.  She  was  standing  in  frontof  Bobby,  who  had  the  bunch  of  bedraggled  net  in  his  hand.  It  was  an  appeal  to  the  solidarity  of  their  kind  before  the  grown-up  horde.  But  she  did  not  understand  that  the  rough  code  of  childhood  was  suddenly  torn  up.  Renee  was  doing  better.  She  darted  at  Peter  and  pulled  his  shirttails  out  of  his  trousers.  The  boys  surrounded  her;  she  slipped  away;  one  caught  her.  She  was  squealing  and  laughing,  and  every  now  and  then  she  puther  mouth  to  a  scratch  that  was  bleeding  on  her  round  upper  arm.  She  grabbed  Cavada  and  the  two  of  them  began  to  run  down  the  lane,  tossing  their  heads,  groaning  and  laughing  hysterically.  They  were  carry-  ing  their  sandals  and  kept  dropping  them  and  snatching  at  them,  and  sud-  denly,  as  they  straightened  up,  they  found  themselves  in  front  of  the  tramp.  They  paused  for  an  instant,  staring  at  his  stained  rags,  the  dirt  that  magnified  the  grain  of  his  skin  on  his  bare  neck,  his  face  blacked  out  with  filth  withina  matted  ruff  of  rippling  hair  that  fell  to  his  shoulders,  and  the  green  eyes  that  had  no  expression  but  were  flecked  with  prismatic  shapes  of  light.  The  children  drew  back  without  a  word.  He  walked  on  past  the  group,  and  no  one  thought  it  necessary  to  hide  the  girls'  clothing  and  conceal  evidence  of  the  game  from  him.  \n\n&quot;Aawf!  No,  thank  you.  He  sleeps  in  the  cellar  sometimes,&quot;  one  of  the  small-  er  boys  said  in  disgust.  &quot;I've  seen  him  coming  out,  on  the  way  to  school  in  the  morning.&quot;  The  girls  came  slowly  to  the  boys.  &quot;Give  it  back  to  her,&quot;  Peter  said  to  Bobby.  He  took  the  petticoat  from  Bob-  by  and  handed  it  to  Cavada.  Renee  got  hers  after  a  halfhearted  tussle.  They  sat  on  the  soft  ground  and  put  on  their  sandals.  \xc2\xab&quot;We'll  play  again  tomorrow,&quot;  said  Alec.  He  and  Peter  were  standing  together,  but  Peter  said  nothing.  \xe2\x80\x9cI\xe2\x80\x99VE  called  and  called  for  you,&quot;  her  mother  said  when  Cavada  came  home.  &quot;Where  were  you?&quot;  Instantly  there  was  that  look  of  open  her  amazement  behind  which  face   hid  these  days.  &quot;Just  riding  around.  [REDACTED];  Her  mother  did  not  answer,  but  her  father  said,  &quot;I  don't  want  those  boys  hanging  about  the  back  gate,  either.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Daddy.&quot;  Without  a  pause,  she  broke  into  an  excited,  confidential,  good-humored  manner.  &quot;Oh,  we  had  such  a  scare  this  afternoon!  We  were  coming  along  the  lane  and  we  walked  straight  into  the  tramp.  He  glared  at  us  and  he's  got  such  eyes,  you  know-  I  mean,  they're  the  only  clean  and  shiny  things  left  in  his  face.&quot;  Her  anecdotal  manner  fell  into  an  air  of  expectancy,  of  uncertain  hope.  &quot;Keep  out  of  his  way,&quot;  her  mother  said.  &quot;And  don't  everspeak  to  him,  d'you  hear?&quot;  She  added,  to  the  father,  &quot;It's  that  damn  neglected  house.  1  thought  you  were  going  to  get  someone  onto  it?&quot;  HEY  found  each  other  in  the  street,  as  birds  gather,  confusedly,  for  migration.  They  walked  round  and  round  the  blocks  of  the  neighborhood,  past  the  houses  where  each  of  them  lived  a  life  about  which  the  pack  did  not  know.  Their  homes  had  no  meaning  for  them  once  they  were  together;  the  fa-  gades  were  as  blank  as  public  buildings.  Bobby  usually  wheeled  his  bicycle  on  the  flank  of  the  group,  and  at  various  points  someone  would  drop  out  or  join  them.  &quot;I  don't  believe  a  word  about  that  cellar,&quot;  Renee  said  one  day,  stabbing  the  warm  skin  of  tarmac  on  the  street  with  the  heel  of  her  shoe.  They  had  paused,  " b"for  no  more  reason  than,  presently,  they  went  on.  &quot;O.K.,  you  don't.&quot;  Now  they  had  stopped  again,  in  front  ofthe  house  where  Peter  lived,  and  someone  opened  the  gate.  &quot;Hey,  I'm  not  going  into  Peter's  house,&quot;  said  Cavada,  pulling  back.  &quot;It's  all  right,  fusspot,&quot;  said  Alec.  &quot;Everyone's  out.  Pete?&quot;  The  tall  boy  stood  awkwardly,  sud-  denly  the  helpless  host,  dubious  about  the  invasion  of  guests.  &quot;Wait.&quot;  He  dis-  appeared  round  the  back  of  the  house.  In  a  moment  he  was  back;  he  looked  at  Alec.  &quot;Well,  what's  the  score?&quot;  said  Alec  briskly.  Peter  looked  at  him  again;  the  an-  swer  was  drawn  from  him.  &quot;No  one.&quot;  They  trooped  into  the  house,  across  loud  worn  boards  and  frayed  strips  of  carpet.  They  followed  Peter  and  Alec  into  a  sort  of  storeroom  off  an  old-  fashioned  pantry.  Peter  pulled  aside  a  battered  tin  trunk,  a  pile  of  dahlia  bulbs,  and  a  tower  of  Women's  W  eeklys.  &quot;''This  is  mad,&quot;  someone  said.  &quot;What  are  you  looking  for,  I'd  like  to  know&quot;&quot;-  and  suddenly  they  were  staring  down  into  a  dark  place  that  breathed  cold  air  at  them.  Peter  held  the  trapdoor,  with  its  beard  of  cobwebs.  Cavada  said,  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  She  was  appealing  to  him,  but  Alec  said,  &quot;Cellar,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Is  this  really  the  cellar,  Peter?&quot;  she  said.  (KYCS.)\xe2\x80\x99  Her  eyes  were  shining  with  puzzle-  ment.  Alec  crouched  over  the  opening,  gripped  the  edge,  and  let  himself  down.  For  a  moment  he  hung  from  whiten-  ing  knuckles;  they  heard  a  soft  thud.  &quot;It's  jolly  nice  in  here.&quot;  His  voice  was  flattened  and  blurred.  &quot;Chuck  us  some  matches.&quot;  Peter  took  a  matchbox  slowly  out  of  his  pocket  and  threw  it  down.  They  heard  Alec  walking  about  beneath  them,  and  then  the  darkness  of  the  hole  thinned,  became  shadowy,  and  was  hol-  lowed  out  with  light  from  the  bright  head  of  a  candle.  Alec's  foreshortened  figure  appeared.  He  grinned  up  at  them.  The  girls  drew  closer  and  looked  down.  The  light  eddiedout  under  them,  trem-  bling  and  dancing.  They  could  see  one  ofthose  unsteady  tables,  made  out  of  peeled  branches,  that  are  sold  by  venders  on  highways,  a  brass  pedestal  ashtray,  several  fruit-box  stools,  a  bro-  ken  leather  pouf,  and  a  very  old  mat-  tress  coveredby  a  torn  tablecloth  and  adorned  with  two  cushions  propped  dia-  mond-shape  against  the  wall.  All  these  things  leaped  and  leaned  out  of  them-  selves  into  reaching  shadows.  &quot;Jolly  nicein  here,&quot;  Alec  said,  grin-  ning.  &quot;Who  fixed  it  up?&quot;  asked  Renee  re-  spectfully.  &quot;Pete,  of  course.&quot;  Bobby  noncha-  lantly  threw  credit,  like  a  bone,  where  it  was  due.  Peter  was  sitting  on  the  old  maga-  zines  beside  the  trapdoor.  &quot;I  found  the  wood  for  the  tree  house  down  there.&quot;  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  said  Bobby.  It  did  not  seem  to  the  two  girls  that  this  was  the  cellar  that  talk  had  re-  turned  to  again  and  again.  Alec  with  the  pretty  face  had  made  the  cellar  a  possibility  that  day  in  the  lane;  it  had  come  to  exist  out  of  what  people  said  about  it.  Its  walls  and  being  had  come  up  like  the  thunderclouds  of  the  sum-  mer  afternoons,  in  their  thoughts  when  they  were  all  talking  of  other  things.  With  the  exception  of  Alec,  the  boys  were  quiet.  &quot;Who's  going  to  bite  you,  d'you  think?  Aren't  you  coming?&quot;  He  was  singing,  making  a  show  of  kicking  up  a  row  down  there,  and  then  his  head  would  appear,  slightly  offended,  encour-  aging.  &quot;Ugh,  look  at  this.&quot;  Cavada  was  hooking  the  cobwebs  onto  her  shoe.  They  were  heavy  with  dust  and  clung  and  tore.  &quot;I  know.&quot;  Renee  watched  her,  drawn  back  as  if  from  a  grave.  &quot;Oh,  for  crying  out  loud,  who's  going  to  eat  you?&quot;&quot;  said  Alec.  The  boys  above  were  curiously  inat-  tentive,  curiously  still.  Cavada  turned  from  the  place  and  " b"walked  through  the  boys.  Her  walk  was  careful,  awkward,  ingratiating,  and  tight.  At  the  pantry  door,  she  broke  into  a  dash  that  they  heard  like  some-  thing  falling  in  quick,  broken  succession  through  the  house.  In  the  garden,  they  found  her  look-  ing  for  footholds  up  to  the  tree  house,  and  several  of  them  began  to  mob  up  the  tree  with  her,  but  Peter  said,  &quot;Not  up  there.  No  one  up  there,&quot;  and  though  they  did  not  listen,  the  climb  turned  into  horseplay,  and  they  scattered,  chas-  ing,  giggling,  through  the  garden,  watched  by  the  hissing  geese.  In  the  grass  beside  dusty  shrubs,  they  flung  themselves  down  and  Bobby  began  pelt-  ing  everyone  with  brittle  dead  leaves.  Jokes  and  games  and  scuffles  grew  one  out  of  the  other;  the  girls,  sprawled  on  the  grass,  shook  with  sobbing  laughter.  Their  hair  was  full  of  sharp  crumbs  of  leaf,  and  there  were  brilliant  scraps  of  bougainvillaea  flowers  on  their  teeth.  The  game  became  a  version  of  the  old  one  where  you  pay  a  penalty  if  you  change  the  attitude  in  which  you  fall.  \xc2\xabYou're  not  allowed  to  move,  you're  not  allowed  to  move!&quot;  And  every  time  one  of  the  girls  lifted  a  helpless  hand,  or  rolled  away  from  a  scuffle,  some  piece  of  clothing  was  pulled  off  her.  At  last,  Bobby  and  Alec  carried  Cavada,  hoarse  and  drunk,  into  a  hollow  shelter  made  by  the  heavy  overhang  of  the  old  bougainvillaea.  Her  little  girl's  body,  in  all  its  shameful  lack  of  breasts,  stood  bared  as  if  in  the  doctor's  room.  It  had  no  mark  or  color  except  the  shared,  sexless  variation  of  fading  sunburn.  The  pale  S  of  her  back  from  bent  shoulders  down  to  buttocks  could  have  been  the  peeled  stem  of  a  plant;  the  feet,  with  the  toes  splayed  rigid  against  the  moldy  earth,  were  the  only  part  of  her  that  cried  out,  for  shame,  defiance,  bravado.  At  once,  without  looking  at  her,  the  boys  thrust  her  clothes  at  her  with  as  much  yell-  ing  carelessness  as  they  had  taken  them  off.  Everyone  was  terribly  thirsty  and  they  took  turns  at  drinking  with  the  nozzle  of  the  garden  hose  in  their  mouths.  When  Renee  was  having  her  turn,  Cavada  remembered  that  she  had  breasts  already,  and  felt  a  painful,  pro-  tecting  anguish  for  her.  PETER  did  not  come  to  the  gate  for  a  few  days,  and  then  she  heard  the  whistle  again.  Bobby  and  Alec  were  with  him;  she  understood  that  he  could  not  come  without  his  friends,  but  when  she  saw  Alec  she  did  not  want  to  be  re-  minded  of  his  face.  She  scarcely  spoke  to  him,buthe  came  again.  &quot;Why  do     you  always  tag  along?&quot;  she  said  once.  Neither  Alec  nor  the  other  two  seemed  surprised  that  he,  who  belonged,  should  suddenly  be  spoken  to  as  an  outsider.  He  became  smilingly  thick-skinned,  like  an  outsider.  &quot;Why  has  he  got  to  come?&quot;  she  complained  in  his  presence.  &quot;I've  told  him,&quot;  Peter  said.  Alec  laughed  and  went  on  telling  jokes.  Peter  had  toward  him  the  attitude  of  tolerant  exasperation  that  a  man  will  show  toward  an  alcoholic  he  has  known  in  better  days.  The  three  boys  came  into  the  house  occasionally  and  sat  up  in  her  room  on  the  bed  that  she  had  pummelled  and  bounced  to  a  hollow  through  years  of  tenancy.  The  day  simply  came  when  it  was  all  right  to  bring  them  quietly  but  not  furtively  up  the  stairs.  The  first  time,  perhaps,  her  mother  was  not  in,  but  later  they  came  when  her  mother  and  even  her  father  were  in  the  house.  The  boys  listened  to  the  radio,  which  had  been  banished  to  Cavada's  room  so  that  she  could  follow  her  serials  and  rock-'n'-roll  programs  without  inflict,  ing  them  on  the  rest  of  the  family.  Even-  tually,  her  mother  and  the  boys  met,  the  visitors  standing  against  the  passage  wall,  flung  back  into  gangling,  non-  committal  childhood.  They  were  taller  than  Mrs.  Kinschotter,  as  tall  as  her  husband  (except  Alec).  She  went  on  down  the  passage  after  a  polite,  firm,  friendly  word  or  two.  They  said  in  the  living  room  now,  &quot;Better  than  hanging  about  the  streets.  I  suppose  at  least  one  knows  where  she  is.&quot;  Even  when  she  was  alone,  she  spent  most  of  her  time  up  in  her  room.  The  cupboards  were  nests  of  lost  things-  single  socks,  odd  counters  from  games,  dirty  clothes  that  could  not  be  found  in  the  wash.  She  sat  in  a  litter  of  paper  cuttings  and  comics  as  worn  with  thumbing  as  a  monk's  breviary,  and  she     raised  order  and  beauty-pictures  of  bal-  let  dancers,  dogs,  and  singers  stuck  in  a  pattern  on  the  wall,  and  exercise  books  in  which  it  sometimes  took  her  an  hour  to  write  her  name  in  one  of  her  many  elaborate  and  constantly  evolving  scripts.  Sometimes  she  suddenly  appeared  downstairs,  like  a  grown  child  who  has  left  home  to  make  his  way  re-  turning  for  one  of  the  visits  that  are  be-  coming  farther  and  farther  apart,  and  brought  down  to  the  living  room  some  little  book  she  had  prepared  for  her  small  brother.  They  sat  on  the  floor  together,  lavishly  affectionate.  He  knew  no  bet-  ter  than  that  she  had  come  back  for-  ever.  AT  the  end  of  the  summer  holidays,  she  began  her  first  term  at  board-  ing  school.  When  they  took  her  on  the  appointed  day,  it  was  clear  that  she  was  one  of  the  smallest  girls  in  the  dormi-  tory;  the  girl  who  had  the  bed  to  the  right  of  hers  had  just  taken  off  high-  heeled  shoes  to  change  into  her  school  uniform,  and  the  one  on  the  other  side  was  unpacking  grown-up  dresses.  Ca-  vada  hadgone  stripped  of  all  but  her  official  possessions,  but  the  first  time  she  had  a  Sunday  off  at  home  she  took  back  to  school  her  pictures,  some  china  ani-  mals,  and  a  large  photograph  album  that  had  never  been  filled.  Whenever  her  family  saw  her  now,  her  hair  had  been  curled  and  puffed  out  by  an  ex-  pert  among  her  new  friends.  A  letter  be-  ginning  &quot;My  darling  Cavie&quot;  was  dis-  played  among  the  cinema  tickets  and  postcards  pasted  into  the  album.  Under-  neath  it  was  written  &quot;A  letter  from  Peter.&quot;  She  herself  wrote  home  once  a  week,  in  the  style  of  a  specimen  letter.  &quot;Dear  Family,&quot;  the  letters  began,  and  ended  &quot;God  bless  you.&quot;  They  did  not  appear  to  be  addressed  to  anyone  at  all.  Her  mother  read  these  letters  aloud  to  the  father.  After  a  pause,  one  or  the  oth-  " b"   er  would  say,  &quot;She  seems  to  be  shaking  down  all  right.&quot;  &quot;Thank  goodness  she's  taken  it  rath-  er  well.&quot;  One  day,  the  father  got  a  call  in  chambers  to  come  to  the  school.  The  headmistress  received  him  in  a  chintzy  study  with  flowers  and  water  colors  and  told  him  that  there  were  complaints  from  the  parents  of  several  girls  who  had  related  a  story  Cavada  had  told  about  a  cellar.  It  was  a  cellar,  the  girl  had  said  to  her  dormitory  mates,  where  boys  undressed  girls  and  some  ofthe  girls  &quot;had  relations&quot;  with  them.  Cavada  said  that  she  herself  was  one  of  the  girls  who  had  &quot;had  relations.&quot;  Cavada  used  some  coarse  words  when  telling  the  story.  The  headmistress  found  it  an  ob-  vious  boastful  fantasy,  but  the  parents  of  the  child's  companions  were  very  dis-  turbed.  That  night,  Cavada's  mother  said,  &quot;Of  course,  she's  bragging.  She's  al-  ways  been  a  child  who'd  stand  on  her  head  to  get  attention.  Now  she's  dis-  covered  it's  interesting  to  be  wicked.  Oh,  these  damned  girls'  schools!&quot;  &quot;But  where  does  she  get  the  cellar  idea?  There  must  be  some  thread  she's  spun  the  yarn  from.&quot;  &quot;The  smut  she's  got  from  those  boys,  I  suppose.&quot;  &quot;She  does  know  everything,  though,  doesn't  she?&quot;  The  mother  said,  &quot;I  told  her  the  plain  facts  of  life,  but  it  seems  impossible  to  learn  about  them  like  that,  in  any  way  that  counts.&quot;  When  Cavada  came  home  on  her  next  half  day,  they  took  her  into  the  living  room  and  shut  the  door.  She  heard  the  headmistress's  story  through  in  si-  lence;  then  she  seemed  to  be  considering  what  to  do;  then,  feeling  the  walls  of  authority,  of  defenselessness,  of  the  im-  possibility  of  truth,  cornering  her,  she  tried  for  tears,  She  worked  her  face  as  her  little  brother's  worked,  but  the  tears  would  not  come.  &quot;Is  there  a  cellar?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(ch\xe2\x80\x98)\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Where?  In  one  of  your  friends'  houses?&quot;  She  nodded.  &quot;Whose  house  is  it?&quot;  &quot;Peter's.  For  a  club.  He  fixed  it  up.  But  he  doesn't  take  girls  in  there.&quot;  &quot;Have  you  been  in  there?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cN0.\xe2\x80\x9d  Her  mother  cut  in  with  the  directness  of  one  woman  challenging  another  within  the  code  of  their  class.  &quot;Why  did  you  say  you  had  'had  relations'  with  a  boy?  Where  do  you  get  such  phrases?  Don't  you  understand  that  to  people  like  us  making  love  isn't  something  two  children  do  for  a  game  in  a  cellar?  Don't  you  see  all  around  you  that  there's  more  to  it  than  that?&quot;  At  once  Cavada  had  a  child's  instinct  to  snatch  at  what  righteousness  was  left  to  her.  &quot;I  never  said  I  had.  Only  that  other  girls&quot;  &quot;Is  it  true  that  you  haven't  been  in  this  cellar,  Cavada?&quot;  Yes,  Daddy,  I  promise  you.&quot;  &quot;So  you've  been  repeating  a  story  the  boys  told  you.&quot;  Yes.&quot;  She  began  to  weep  easily  now.  &quot;It's  Alec-Alec  and  some  of  the  oth-  ers.  Once,  they  tried  to  force  us  to  go  in_))  &quot;And  Peter?  In  Peter's  house?&quot;  She  sobbed.  &quot;-wasn't  even  there,  he  was  somewhere  else,  he  wasn't  even  there.&quot;  And  it  was  true;  she  could  not  remember  his  being  there  that  day,  under  the  shrubs,  or  among  the  spider  webs  beneath  the  bougainvillaea,  where  she  had  been  seen  by  eyes.  She  could  only  remember  his  saying  something  about  the  tree  house.  &quot;Peter  likes  to  make  things-that  house  in  the  big  tree  at  the  corner  of  his  garden-and  he  fixed  up  the  cellar  for  fun,  but  Alec  and  the  45      w  Miler  others,  they  won't  listen.  He's  told  Alec  hundreds  of  times  not  to  come.  Even  when  Alec  comes  to  our  house.  He's  told  him,  andI'm  always  telling  him-&quot;  &quot;'The  next  time  he  comes  here,  just  tell  me,  that's  [REDACTED];  said  her  mother.  &quot;Cavada,  do  you  know  what  'tart'  means?&quot;  her  father  said,  determined  to  go  through  with  it.  &quot;I  know  you  know  all  the  so-called  rude  words  connected  with  the  sexual  act  itself,  because  I  re-  member  from  when  I  was  a  child  that  all  children  know  these  words,  but  I  wonder  whether  you  know  the  meaning  of  some  of  the  other  words  you  used-  words  that  reflect  on  the  honor  and  de-  cency  of  the  people  so  described.,&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Daddy,&quot;  she  said  respectfully.  &quot;Yes,  you  do,  or  yes,  you  don't?&quot;  She  shook  her  head.  &quot;You  don't  know  what  'tart'  means?&quot;  &quot;No,  Daddy.&quot;  &quot;It  means  a  woman  who  earns  her  living  by  taking  payment  in  return  for  sleeping  with  men.&quot;  &quot;Having  sexual  intercourse  with  men,&quot;  said  her  mother.  The  fastidious  effort  at  the  precision  of  truth  was  an  instinct  of  tenderness.  The  man  and  woman  hesitated  and  chose,  trying  to  pick  a  way  for  her  through  the  ambigu-  ities  and  compromises  that  were  about  them,  comfortably  marked  by  use,  like  shabby  furniture.  HER  mother  went  through  Cavada's  cupboards  one  day  when  everyone  was  out  of  the  house.  She  put  the  crumpled,  outgrown  clothes  in  a  heap  on  the  floor,  as  they  came.  She  opened  the  chocolate  boxes  of  trinkets  and  plas-  tic  charms  and  closed  them  again.  Whenever  she  came  to  a  sheet  of  paper  or  an  old  exercise  book,  she  stopped  and  was  quite  still.  &quot;Cavada  Patricia  Kin-  schotter;&quot;  it  marked  out  the  limits  of  a  domain  like  a  prison  cell.  It  appeared  in  " b"cursive  and  printed  script,  capitals  and  small  letters,  backward-sloping,  for-  ward-sloping,  upright.  Across  the  tops  of  pages,  in  the  middle  of  pages,  can-  celling  out  a  page  diagonally.  There  were  notebooks  and  bridge-score  pads  and  diaries  (the  kind  that  tradesmen  give  away)  as  well  asexercise  books.  Most  of  the  diaries  were  for  past  years  and  were  empty  except  for  the  name;  the  fan  of  pages  opened  and  fell  back  again,  all  the  days  of  the  months  pass-  ing  white.  In  others,  another  name  ap-  peared  beside  the  first-'&quot;Peter  James  Smith.&quot;  &quot;I  love  Peter  James  Smith&quot;-  in  January,  September,  April,  Tues  days,  Sundays,  Fridays,  this  year,  last  year.  On  the  final  page  of  a  tartan-cov-  ered  address  book  from  a  Christmas  stocking  was  scrawled,  &quot;I  love  Peter  and  adore  himand  need  him  and  want  him  forever  and  ever.&quot;  The  mother  suddenly  began  to  put  all  the  notebooks  and  diaries  back  again,  hiding  them  carefully  where  she  had  found  them.  When  she  had  finished,  she  stood  in  the  middle  of  the  room  with  the air  of  someone  who  feels  herself  watched  to  see  what  she  will  do  next.  She  bundled  up  the  pile  of  outgrown  clothes  after  a  moment  and  went  out.  LETTER  came  as  usual:  &quot;Dear  Family  ...  There  was  a  maths  test  on  Thursday  and  I  got  61  per  cent  ...  four  girls  in  the  class  have  gone  to  the  sanatorium  with  a  rash,  they  thought  it  was  scarlet  fever  but  it  isn't  ...  Miss  Crossfield  sent  for  me  and  was  very  sweet.&quot;  &quot;Miss  Crossfield  sent  for  me  and  was  very  sweet.&quot;  The  headmistress  might  have  been  interviewing  her  in  order  to  congratulate  her  on  some  achievement,  rather  than  to  warn  her  that  girls  could  beexpelled  for  telling  tales  like  hers.  Her  mother  read  the  sentence  again,  but  her  spasm  of  annoyance  had  nothing  to  tighten  on;  the  letter  was  as  calming  as  all  matters  of  form.  Letters  continued  to  arrive  regularly,  written  at  the  ap-  pointed  time,  on  the  appointed  day  of  the  week.  &quot;We  played  Protea  Convent  and  tied  ..  .  Dinks  says  if  we  don't  stop  being  careless  about  bad  marks,  our  poor  old  dormitory  is  going  to  be  last  in  the  whole  school.  At  least  no  one  in  our  class  has  been  named  yet  .  ..  God  bless  you  all.  .  .  .&quot;  These  fits  and  starts  of  bald  information  on  activities  they  knew  nothing  about  made  it  unnec-  essary  to  think  ofher;  one  knew  where  she  was.  Soon  her  mother  skimmed  through  the  letters  in  silence,  merely  remarking,  &quot;Cavada  must  be  fetched;  half  day  on  Saturday,&quot;  or  &quot;She  savs  you  must  get  a  new  press  for  her  tennis  racket.&quot;  One  day  when  Cavada  was  home  for  the  weekend,  she  heard  at  the  lunch  table  that  a  man  had  been  found  dead  in  a  cellar  that  week.  The  younger  children  were  full  of  talk  of  how  the  police  had  been  asking  questions  in  all  the  houses  up  and  down  the  street.  At  the  word  &quot;cellar,&quot;  her  normal  comprehension  fell  apart  into  the  idiotic  vacancy  of  one  who  is  caught  out.  Between  one  sentence  and  the  next,  sitting  among  her  mother  and  father  and  brother  and  sisters  at  the  table,  she  dropped,  muffled  and  gagged,  into  a  dark  place.  Her  being  lay  quite  still  in  the  grip  of  retribution  and  an  evil  without  a  name.  The  threat  at  her  back  at  night,  the  fear  in  lies,  the  confus  on  of  love  and  unspeakable  shame  that  were  the  same  and  yet  dreadfully  dif-  ferent-as  a  man  is  at  once  the  same  man  but  alive  and  then  dead-all  this  drew  abreast  of  her  menacingly.  'The  next  moment,  she  understood  that  it  was  the  cellar  of  the  empty  house  they  were  talking  about,  and,  at  a  stroke,  terror  went  from  her  like  a  weird  light  that  passes  on  and  takes  distor-  tion  with  it.  She  was  able  to  ask,  with  normal  curiosity,  &quot;Who  was  it  they  murdered?&quot;  &quot;D'you  know,  it  was  the  tramp,&quot;  said  her  mother,  raising  her  shoulders,  crossing  her  arms  over  her  body,  and  frowning  pityingly.  &quot;You  remember  that  tramp  who  frightened  you  once  when  you  met  him  in  the  lane?&quot;"