 b"THE  few  small  branches  that  the  Canadian  bank  I  worked  for  in  my  younger  days  maintained  in  the  far  northern  reaches  of  Nova  Scotia  were  commonly  regarded  by  my  col-  leagues  in  other  parts  of  the  province  as  bleak,  isolated  outposts  where  noth-  ing  of  any  financial  consequence  ever  happened.  Actually,  banking  in  those  rugged  parts  was  anything  but  dull,  and  to  prove  it  I  used  to  cite  the  Midwashers  and  the  chapter  of  bank  history  they  wrote  in  a  town  I'll  call  Benacady,  where  I  put  in  my  junior  clerkship.  The  Midwashers  were  a  tribe  of  shy,  rather  shiftless  backwoodsmen  who  for  two  hundred  years  or  so  had  inhabited  the  slopes  of  some  tablelands  a  few  miles  west  of  Benacady.  (The  Midwash,  an  almost  inaccessible  salmon  stream  that  flowed  in  the  inner  valleys,  had  given  them  their  name.)  Apart  from  a  few  recent  intermarriages,  the  Midwashers  had  no  kin  in  the  other  small  settlements  that  constituted  the  branch's  territory;  they  were  a  breed  apart,  descendants  of  refugees  from  the  Benacady  Massa-  cre  of  1728,  which  occurred  when  a  strong  raiding  party  of  Frenchmen  and  Micmac  Indians  burned  everything  to  the  ground,  and  took  many  scalps.  Thirty  years  later,  fresh  immigrants  from  the  British  Isles  raised  a  new  Benacady  on  the  original  site,  but  the  small  band  of  refugees  still  hiding  out  in  the  nearby  heightsdid  not  rush  down  to  join  them.  &quot;We've  had  our  massacre,&quot;  they  are  said  to  have  given  as  their  rea-  son.  They  had  made  their  peace  with  the  Micmacs,  and  had  even  assimilated  some  French  coureurs  de  bois  they  had  flushed  out  of  the  forest.  They  grew  sinewy  and  hawk-eyed,  skulked  silently  through  the  woods,  and  acquired  sinister  skills  with  knives  and  axes.  When  caribou  were  plentiful,  they  slaughtered  them  recklessly,  and  in  lean  seasons  they  foraged  by  night,  in  little  bands,  among  the  roosts  and  sheeppens  on  the  outskirts  of  Benacady.  From  wood  shavings  dyed  with  berry  juices  they  wove  baskets  indistinguishable  from  those  of  the  Micmacs.  Around  Confed-  eration  time,  a  Catholic  missionary  brought  them  the  Word,  and  recon-  ciled  them,  to  a  degree,  at  least,  with  the  late-colonial  civilization  that  was  then  flowering  around  them.  The  memory  of  this  benefactor,  Father  Zephyrin,  was  still  revered  in  my  time.  A  crude  statue  of  him,  carved  by  some  long-forgotten  sculptor  with  an  axe  from  the  bole  of  an  oak,  stood  like  a  totem  pole  beside  the  road  at  the  entrance  to  their  settlement.  They  ascribed  some  small  magical  prop-  erties  to  it,  such  as  the  power  of  curing  warts  and  frostbite.  Even  after  Father  Zephyrin,  the  Midwashers  remained  unprogressive  and  satisfied  with  their  lot.  When  I  entered  the  bank,  in  1937,  they  were  a  dead  loss  to  us.  They  maintained  no  sav-  ings  accounts,  and  a  little  bundle  of  their  old  promissory  notes,  long  written  off  the  books,  lay  gathering  dust  on  a  shelf  in  the  vault.  Mr.  Gidney,  manager  of  the  branch  for  the  past  seventeen  years,  had  little  hope  for  them.  &quot;A  signature  on  a  piece  of  paper  means  no  more  to  a  Midwasher  than  it  does  to  the  horned  cattle  in  the  fields,&quot;  I  remember  his  re-  marking  to  MacEachern,  the  head  clerk.  &quot;Living  that  long  in  the  woods,  people  lose  all  financial  morality.&quot;  When  he  went  on  vacation,  he  always  left  a  note  on  his  memo  pad  for  the  man  who  was  relieving  him:  &quot;Do  not  ad-  vance  one  red  cent  to  any  Midwasher  whatsoever  under  any  circumstances.&quot;  Mr.  Gidney's  pronouncements  on  Midwashers,  as  on  most  other  things  in  his  territory,  were  gener-  ally  sound.  A  nativeof  the  Chaleur  43616e616461region  of  New  Brunswick,  that  province's  equivalent  of  our  section  of  Nova  Sco-  tia,  he  was  a  specialist  in  backwoods  financing,  a  member  of  a  dwindling  breed  of  managers  shrewd,  roughhew  n,  and  truculent,  full  of  grievances-who  served  out  their  careers  on  the  harsh  periphery  of  the  Canadian  branch-bank-  ing  system.  'The  manag-  ership  of  Benacady  generally  considered  the  least  attractive  of  the  un-  desirable  lot  in  our  area.  The  climate,  for  one  thing,  was  more  than  the  aver-  age  banker  could  be  asked  to  put  up  with.  While  other  parts  of  the  province  had  winters  perhaps  as  cold  by  the  thermom-  eter,  there  was  a  particular  nastiness  about  the  wind  that  howled  down  into  the  Benacady  territory  from  the  great  sea  of  ice  to  the  north  for  weekson  end,  keeping  most  living  things  under  shelter.  Of  more  serious  concern,  the  branch's  record  for  the  past  twenty  years  was  one  was  " b"of  unrelieved  deterioration,.  'The  town  had  long  suffered  from  a  decline  in  its  lumbering  trade.  It  was  shabby;  along  the  short  business  section  of  Main  Street,  the  ornate,  turn-of-the-century  shop  fronts  were  run  down  and  in  need  of  paint.  Our  credit  policy  was  tight.  The  most  important  of  our  savings  accounts  were  those  of  old  people  who  had  put  money  away  years  ago,  during  the  pros-  perous  times;  withdrawals  and  deaths  took  a  steady  toll  of  them.  There  were  no  competitors  for  us  to  coax  business  away  from.  The  nearest  bank  was  our  own  branch  in  Eelbrook,  the  county  seat.  Its  territory  met  ours  in  Little  Wanooska,  a  village  some  twelve  miles  from  either  town,  where  the  chief  means  of  livelihood  were  poaching  and  bootlegging,  and  we  already  had  all  we  wanted  of  that  unsavory  business.  The  Midwashers  were  the  first  group  in  the  area  to  emerge  from  this  economic  mire.  Their  stamping  grounds  lay  on  the  edge  of  a  tract  some  twenty  miles  square  that  the  federal  government,  aft-  er  a  decade  of  political  intrigue,  had  sud-  denly  decided  to  convert  into  a  national  park.  A  few  months  after  I  entered  the  bank,  khaki-clad  engineers  and  sur-  veyors  began  to  arrive  in  khaki-colored  government  trucks.  They  roamed  the  bush  with  their  instruments.  In  the  spring,  a  road-construction  firm  set  up  a  base  dump  of  graders  and  bulldozers  in  Little  Wanooska,  and  recruited  a  road  gang,  and,  toward  fall,  as  work  was  begun  on  a  golf  course,  and  a  colony  of  moose  from  [REDACTED]  was  released  in  the  area,  the  evacuation  of  residents  began.  The  government  paid  handsomely  for  the  land  it  had  appropriated,  and  the  Midwashers,  with  checks  in  their  pock-  ets,  moved  into  town,  their  crude  be-  longings  piled  precariously  on  old  trucks,  farm  carts,  and  buggies,  a  cow  or  a  short  stringof  sheep  occasionally  trail-  ing  one  of  the  horse-drawn  vehicles  on  a  rope.  Here  and  there,  the  hoof  of  an  out-of-season  deer  stuck  out  over  a  tailboard.  They  left  nothing  behind  that  was  movable.  Some  public  camp-  ing  installations  were  transported  in  shrouded  sections,  along  with  the  Lands  and  Forests  Department  fire  pump.  Father  Zephyrin's  statue  arrived  on  a  pile  of  old  mattresses  in  one  of  the  trucks,  and  was  presented  to  the  parish,  which  took  a  dim  view  of  it.  (It  cer-  tainly  didn't  look  like  anything  Chris-  tian.  When  Ileft  Benacady,  some  fif-  teen  months  later,  it  was  still  in  limbo  in  the  glebe  coach  house,  awaiting  some  sort  of  decision  on  its  orthodoxy.)  The  Midwashers  moved  in  tem-  porarily  with  the  few  residents  who" b'could  or  would  accommodate  them,  or  bivouacked  in  some  abandoned  old  houses  on  the  High  Road,  turned  their  nags  and  cattle  out  to  graze  on  the  frozen  stubble  in  the  fields,  and  gath-  ered  in  little  knots  along  Main  Street  to  discuss  their  new  situation.  It  was  not  going  down  very  well  with  some  of  them.  A  family  of  clannish  MacRaes,  who  had  lived  in  the  crags  of  a  remote  mountain  and  had  seldom  been  seen  at  sea  level,  returned  to  their  aerie  after  a  week  in  town  and  had  to  be  driven  back  again  by  the  game  wardens.  (They  were  as  numerous  in  the  area  as  city  policemen.)  A  few  ambitious  families  pushed  on  for  The  Mines,  our  metropo-  lis  on  the  eastern  coast.  But  most  of  the  Midwashers  prepared  to  make  their  homes  in  Benacady.  In  the  spring,  they  would  start  building  themselves  modest  bungalows,  for  a  fraction  of  their  settle-  ment  money,  in  the  swampy  crown  lands  south  of  town.  Meanwhile,  they  were  at  loose  ends.  Until  the  cold  weather  drove  them  indoors,  a  favorite  gather-  ing  place  for  the  older  men  was  in  front  of  the  bank,  where  they  could  sit  on  the  ledge  of  the  lobby  window  and  ob-  serve  the  life  of  the  town.  I  watched  them  from  my  cage,  and  exchanged  civil  nods  with  them  on  my  way  to  and  from  work.  They  wore  standard  back-  country  attire-heavy  sweaters,  frieze  breeches,  and  woolly,  bright-colored  caps  that  ballooned  out  all  around  from  the  ear  lugs  folded  inside.  Collectively,  they  gave  off  a  smell  compounded  of  old  perspiration,  leaf  mold,  and  Rosebud,  the  rank  pipe  tobacco  many  of  them  were  addicted  to.  They  seemed  good-  humored  but  restless,  obviously  flabber-  gasted  by  their  fortune.  Sometimes  when  I  glanced  out  the  lobby  window,  I  noticed  one  of  them  peering  in,  shad-  ing  his  eyes  with  his  hand,  gravely  searching  the  premises  as  if  for  some  clue  to  the  mysteries  of  finance.  Their  early  shopping  ventures  were  for  arti-  cles  that  in  the  past  had  been  only  just  beyond  their  reach-watches,  cal-  abash  pipes,  hip  boots.  One  bearded  pa-  triarch  sat  on  the  bank  stoop  through  a  Saturday  afternoon  with  a  two-pound  bag  of  jelly  beans,  indulging  a  lifelong  passion.  &quot;I  never  could  get  enough  of  these  little  bastards,&quot;  he  declared  to  passersby,  with  a  toothless,  unabashed  grin.  [REDACTED].  GroxnEy,  with  his  long  experi-  ence  of  hard  times  and  of  Mid-  washers,  was  cautious  of  this  windfall.  The  first  few  days  when  they  came  in  to  cash  their  checks  and  to  open  ac-  counts,  he  kept  out  of  sight  in  his  inner' b"office,  busying  himself  with  other  mat-  ters,  calling  out  occasionally  to  Mac-  Eachern  for  the  latest  tally.  &quot;How  much  so  far?&quot;  &quot;Six  new  accounts  this  morning.  Twenty-eight  thousand.&quot;  &quot;See  that  they  don't  forge  their  wives'  signatures  on  those  checks.  They  used  to  do  that  on  notes,  you  know.&quot;  After  the  first  wave  had  passed,  he  came  out  now  and  then  to  pore  over  the  savings  ledger,  from  which  he  would  raise  his  head  to  frown  out  the  lobby  window,  as  if  he  were  unable  to  recon-  cile  the  depositors  out  there  with  the  new  accounts.  In  the  end,  his  ingrained  pessimism  won  out.  &quot;It's  not  natural,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;For  thirty-eight  years,  man  and  boy,  I've  been  dealing  across  the  bank's  counters  with  Midwashers  and  their  like.  They're  not  cut  out  for  pil-  lars  ofa  savings  department,  MacEach-  ern.  Take  that  Mackerel  Cove  crowd  in  New  Brunswick,  at  my  last  branch  before  I  came  here.  They  were  the  same  type  as  these  so-called  Midwash-  ers,  only  seagoing.  They'd  made  a  pile  of  money  in  fish  during  the  war.  When  I  took  over,  the  branch's  deposits  were  bloated  with  it.  I  didn't  like  the  looks  of  it  at  all.  I  could  see  that  they  weren't  controlling  that  money;  the  money  was  controlling  them.  But  I  was  trapped.  What  do  you  think  you  could  do  in  a  case  like  that,  MacEachern?&quot;  MacEachern,  who  was  genuinely  gratified  at  the  branch's  sudden  good  fortune  and  a  little  resentful  of  Mr.  Gidney's  attitude,  considered  for  a  mo-  ment.  &quot;Nothing,  I  guess,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Right.  Well,  just  about  then  they  got  together  and  formed  this  fish-mar-  keting  cooperative,  right  under  the  nose  of  the  Northern  Packing  Company.  These  fellows  who  could  hardly  spell  their  own  names!  A  fish-marketing  cooperative,  if  you  don't  mind-the  Amalgamated  Fishermen  of  Mackerel  Low,  they  called  themselves.  'They  drained  off  all  my  deposits,  and  got  themselves  into  such  a  box  that  I  had  to  give  them  loans  to  keep  them  out  of  bankruptcy.  Finally,  Northern  Packing  hauled  off  and  knocked  them  for  a  row  of  cabbage.  The  place  went  to  pot  after  that.  The  branch,  too,  naturally.  Office  didn't  pin  any  medals  on  me,  let  me  tell  you.&quot;  He  tapped  the  savings  ledger  with  his  forefinger.  &quot;And  now  we  have  this  situation.  These  are  not  reliable  deposits.&quot;  But,  reliable  or  not,  they  had  to  be  procured,  in  the  largest  possible  amounts.  Head  Office,  well  informed  about  the  movements  of  money  in  all  corners  of  the  country,  was  already " b'prodding  him.  &quot;Congratulations  on  the  new  development  in  your  territory,&quot;  they  wrote.  &quot;We  shall  look  forward  with  interest  to  your  comparative  state-  ments  of  deposits  in  the  immediate  fu-  ture.  This  new  business  should  open  an  era  of  progress  at  your  branch  and  in  your  territory.&quot;  &quot;Progress!&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  snorted.  \xc2\xab&quot;Midwashers!&quot;  The  only  Midwasher  who  might  have  given  leadership  to  the  aimless  lot  now  milling  around  town  was,  unfor-  tunately,  no  longerwith  them.  George  Pate  had  been  a  farmer  and  land  clearer  of  some  substance.  He  was  bigger  and  hairier  than  his  fellows,  did  everything  on  a  larger  scale,  and  consequently  was-or  at  least  seemed  to  bee-more  responsible.  But  the  previous  spring  he  had  contrived  to  get  caught  in  his  own  bear  trap  and  died  of  lockjaw-intestate,  as  was  the  custom  among  the  Midwash-  ers.  The  settlement  check  for  his  prop-  erty  the  government  had  issued  jointly  to  his  three  grown  sons,  and  they  came  into  the  bank  together  one  morning  to  cash  it.  Shifty-eyed,  wild-looking  youths,  in  their  late  teens  or  early  twenties,  they  might  have  passed  for  Greek  or  Yugo-  slay  mountain  bandits.  After  a  long,  whispered  conference  at  the  door,  they  approached  my  wicket  in  a  circuitous  fashion,  casting  furtive  glances  around  the  office,  moving  with  the  slump-  ing  gait  of  men  born  to  hard  labor.  (Old  George  had  worked  them  brut-  ishly.  )  &quot;Well,  gentlemen?&quot;  I  said.  They  held  another  conference,  this  time  in  a  private  language  they  seemed  to  have,  consisting  of  signs  and  eye-  rollings.  At  last,  one  of  them  thrust  an  inquiring  face  up  to  the  bars.  He  had  stiff  black  hairs  under  his  eves,  where  the  razor  never  reached,  and  an- ' b"gry-looking  pimples  on  his  neck.  &quot;Is  this  where  you  get  money  at?&quot;  he  asked  meekly.  \xe2\x80\x9cIt  is.\xe2\x80\x99)  He  pushed  in  a  crumpled  envelope,  containing  the  check.  Mr.  Gidney,  who  always  took  a  paternal  interest  in  the  assets  of  the  dead,  joined  me  in  the  cage  to  watch  the  transaction.  &quot;How  are  you  boys  going  to  split  up  this  money?&quot;  he  asked  them.  They  didn't  know,  and  agreed  readi-  ly  to  his  suggestion  that  they  deposit  the  bulk  of  it  in  a  joint  account  until  they  made  up  their  minds.  Their  full  names,  as  they  appeared  on  the  check,  were  Joseph  Pate,  Joseph  George  Pate,  and  Joseph  George  Stanislas  Pate.  For  short,  they  said,  they  were  called  Joe,  Joe  George,  and  Stan.  &quot;Have  you  boys  got  any  plans  for  the  future?&quot;  inquired  Mr.  Gidney.  (\xe2\x80\x98Sl'r-P  9&gt;  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  do  with  yourselves  here  in  town?&quot;  Their  spokesman,  Joe,  thought  for  a  minute.  &quot;We  might  go  on  atrip,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  thought  maybe  we'd  takea  little  tour  around.&quot;  At  this,  the  two  others  nudged  each  other  and  cackled  secretively.  &quot;Foolish  their  names  and  foolish  their  natures,&quot;  said  Mr.  Gidney  when  they  had  ambled  out  the  door.  &quot;Born  stump  pullers,  separated  from  their  calling,  probably  for  life.  A  sad  case.&quot;  Within  the  hour,  they  were  back  to  withdraw  half  their  deposit.  They  had  decided,  they  said,  to  buy  a  car,  and  be-  s  des,  they  needed  money  for  other  ex-  penses.  Later  in  the  day,  we  learned  that  they  had  acquired  the  local  Cadillac,  an  aging  limousine  that  changed  hands  fre-  quently,  and  had  left  town  with  a  load  of  young  Midwashers-an  unaccount-  ablylarge  number,  apparently,  for  next  morning  the  town  seemed  empty  of  them.  The  explanation  soon  came  out.  A  big  celebration  was  under  way  at  the  home  of  a  Mrs.  Daniels,  a  youngish,  hospitable  widow  who  lived  just  outside  the  park  area,  and  the  Pates  had  been  hauling  reinforcements  to  it  half  the  night.  They  made  a  trip  to  town  late  the  next  afternoon,  to  refresh  their  girls  and  take  back  some  supplies.  The  loungers  in  the  stores  made  notes  of  their  purchases.  It  was  strange  fare  for  Midwashers:  prime  cuts  of  beef,  hams,  oysters,  pickles,  and  maraschino  cherries.  Dice,  poker  chips,  and  exploding  cigars  were  tossed  into  the  bags.  They  took  two  local  fid-  dlers  backwith  them,  and  stopped  off  at  the  post  office  to  engage  by  telegram,  at  God  knows  what  expense,  a  famous  radio  cowboy  from  [REDACTED],  Yodelling " b"Tex.  The  arrival  of  this  personage  the  next  day,  with  a  retinue  of  accompanists  and  platinum  blondes,  all  in  full  West-  ern  regalia,  was  an  eyeopener  for  the  local  partygoers-a  substantial  body  of  the  citizenry,  who  usually  had  sharp  noses  for  likely  shindigs.  They  had  un-  derestimated  this  one,  but  now  they  be-  gan  crashing  it  in  droves.  When  the  Westerners  left,  the  Pates  slipped  away  quietly  with  a  select  car-  load  of  friends  for  the  fleshpots  of  Hali-  fax,  and  after  a  week  there  they  made  a  leisurely  sightseeing  and  drinking  tour  of  the  province.  Finally,  they  headed  the  Cadillac  back  for  Benacady.  Mr.  Gidney  and  I  happened  to  be  leaving  the  bank  for  lunch  when  it  came  careening  down  Main  Street  covered  with  the  mud  of  seven  counties,  its  fenders  bat-  tered,  and  one  headlight  swinging  loose  on  its  wires.  Grinning  Midwash  faces,  drawn  but  doggedly  jubilant,  were  pressed  against  the  windows.  As  they  passed,  a  shower  of  candy  wrappers,  paper  bags,  and  empty  bottles  was  flung  out  into  the  street.  The  party,  evident-  ly,  was  still  on.  But  fate,  or  Providence,  had  had  enough  of  them.  At  the  edge  of  town,  headed  for  the  Widow  Daniels',  Joe  George  crashed  the  car  into  a  house.  No  one  was  seriously  hurt,  but  the  Mounties  who  arrived  on  the  scene  ar-  rested  all  hands  for  multiple  infractions  of  the  liquor  laws.  There  were  warrants  out  for  them.  A  cow  had  been  massacred  on  the  highway  below  Eelbrook;  a  pe-  destrian  had  been  knocked  down  in  Hal-  ifax,  and  a  policeman  insulted.  And  now  the  side  of  a  house  was  staved  in.  An  Eelbrook  judge  finedthe  lot  of  them  heavily,  and  attached  what  remained  of  the  joint  account  to  settle  claims.  [REDACTED].  GtonEy  held  the  Pates  respon-  sible  for  erosions  in  our  deposits  long  after  we  had  scratched  their  names  from  the  roll  of  our  customers.  The  celebration  they  had  started  at  the  Wid-  ow  Daniels'  kept  flaring  up  throughout  the  winter  like  a  stubborn  brush  fire,  not  only  debasing  morals  but  consum-  ing  money.  And  in  other  ways  the  Midwashers  were  getting  the  feel  of  their  money.  Independently,  they  discovered  the  mail-  order  catalogues.  Clothes,  yard  goods,  and  overstuffed  furniture  began  ar-  riving  for  them  in  large  quantities.  In  January,  a  sharpster  from  Eelbrook  who,  among  other  things,  sold  shares  in  a  shady  finance  company  passed  among  them  with  spectacular  success.  MacEachern,  while  still  optimistic,  was  beginning  to  fret  at  the  increasing  rate  of  withdrawals.  &quot;Do  you  remem- " b"ber  that  brochure  on  thrift?&quot;  he  asked  Mr.  Gidney  one  day.  &quot;'The  one  we  kept  a  stack  of  in  the  lobby  for  years  and  finally  junked?  What  of  it?&quot;  &quot;Do  you  think  it  would  help  to  pass  copies  of  it  out  to  them?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cN0&quot;,  &quot;&quot;No,  I  guess  not.&quot;  &quot;'This  thing  is  beyond  the  realm  of  brochures.&quot;  The  bank's  chief  concern  was  with  the  sizable  block  of  potential  business  we  had  not  yet  even  rounded  up.  Some  Midwashers  did  not  trust  the  bank;  oth-  ers,  whose  Slgnatures  appeared  on  the  ancient  promissory  notes  in  the  vault,  had  vague  but  sound  apprehensmns  about  the  bank's  right  of  offset.  Most  of  these  people  had  given  their  settle-  ment  money  intothe  keeping  of  a  com-  munity  trustee  they  had,  one  Allie  Suth-  erland,  who  had  been  their  spokesman  with  the  park  officials  and  now  repre-  sented  them  with  the  local  politicians.  He  was  not  noticeably  smarter  than  his  fellows;  in  fact,  Mr.  Gidney,  who  had  had  some  dealings  with  him  in  the  past,  regarded  him  as  a  fool,  and  had  told  him  so  more  than  once.  But  Allie  Suth-  erland  had  one  solid  accomplishment  to  his  credit,  and  it  was  an  important  one.  He  was  their  top  fiddler.  The  Midwashers  rated  good  fiddling  high.  They  would  very  likely  have  seen  in  Ignace  Paderewski  a  foreign,  pianistic  equivalent  of  a  master  fiddler,  and  found  nothing  remarkable  in  his  appointment  to  the  Premiership  of  [REDACTED].  The  du-  rable  reels  of  their  forefathers  were  sprightly,  joyous  tunes,  full  of  nuances  and  sly  turns  of  phrase,  and  Sutherland  was  an  artist  who  knew  how  to  beguile  his  audiences.  He  performed  infrequent  ly,  and  then  with  seeming  reluctance  and  an  air  of  jaded  nonchalance-to  all  appearances  fast  asleep  in  a  kitchen  chair,  his  instrument  resting  casually  in  his  lap  while  his  bow  and  clawlike  fingers  danced  nimbly  over  it  in  an  almost  dis-  embodied  fashion.  Sutherland  had  done  nothing  since  his  arrival  in  Benacady  to  raise  Mr.  Gidney's  opinion  of  him.  He  spoke  of  starting  gold-mining  operations  in  the  spring,  in  the  section  of  mountains  that  remained  outside  the  park  area.  (The  Midwashers  had  long  believed  that  they  were  sitting  on  a  veritable  Klondike  out  there,  although  a  wide  scouring  of  the  area  over  the  years  by  prospectors  and  government  geologists  had  turned  up  nothing  more  valuable  than  a  couple  of  faces  of  poor-quality  gypsum.)  At  oth-  er  times,  he  talked  of  making  violins  commercially.  (He  had  turned  out  two " b"or  three  squeaky  instruments,  and  now  had  some  blocks  of  pine  and  maple  ag-  ing  in  the  local  undertakers  coffin  shed.)  The  most  gregarious  of  Midwashers,  he  fitted  from  one  gathering  to  anoth-  er,  propounding  a  dozen  impractical  schemes  and  waving  a  great  roll  of  bills  about  for  emphasis.  To  Mr.  Gidney's  further  annoyance,  he  gave  himself  airs.  He  had  taken  to  wearing  a  derby,  un-  heard-of  headgear  for  a  Midwasher,  and  around  Christmas  a  ring  of  many  little  diamonds,  very  much  like  a  wom-  an's  engagement  ring,  appeared  on  his  little  finger.  His  independence  increased  with  his  style.  One  day,  he  sent  Joe  Monroe,  the  grocer,  into  the  bank  to  tell  us  that  we  could  whistle  for  his  business.  Head  Office,  which  had  been  keeping  a  close  check  on  our  deposits,  suddenly  levelled  an  impatient  blastat  Mr.  Gid-  ney.  &quot;Nearly  two  hundred  thousand  in  government  funds  were  distributed  in  your  territory  during  October  last,&quot;  they  wrote.  &quot;You  have  no  competition.  Yet  to  date  your  savings  deposits  show  a  bare  fifteen-per-cent  increase.  As  you  are  well  aware,  the  over-all  tendency  at  your  branch  is  toward  a  steady  decline  in  deposits.  The  outstanding  moneys  are  therefore  of  the  utmost  importance  to  us,  and  we  are  unable  to  understand  your  failure  to  secure  same.  The  luna-  tic  fiddler  you  mention  on  your  com-  parative  statement  of  15th  ult.  is  not  a  satisfactory  explanation.  Report  on  the  entire  situation  at  length,  at  once.&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  swore,  and  tossed  the  letter  to  MacEachern.  We  were  sitting  in  his  office  on  the  morning  ofa  par-  ticularly  quiet  day-Epiphany,  a  holi-  day  all  over  town  except  in  the  bank.  In  the  intervals  of  sorting  the  morning  mail,  we  had  been  discussing  a  new  and" b"stiffer  schedule  of  operating  charges  on  checking  accounts  that  was  going  into  effect  with  the  new  year,  and  watching  the  churchgoers  through  the  window.  Their  ranks  were  swollen  with  Mid-  washers.  Allie  Sutherland  strutted  by,  wearing  his  derby,  his  engagement  ring,  and  a  long  black  horsehide  coat  with  fur  collar  he  had  recently  added  to  his  wardrobe.  His  wife,  a  thin,  drab,  silent  creature,  slogged  along  after  him  in  a  '|  pairof  his  discarded  gumshoes.  &quot;'There  he  goes,&quot;  said  MacEachern.  Mr.  Gidney  stared  after  him.  &quot;Isn't  he  the  handsome  dog!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  too  bad  we  couldn't  crate  him  and  ship  him  to  [REDACTED],  so  Head  Office  could  have  a  look  at  him.&quot;  He  was  going  to  have  to  solicit  Sutherland  for  his  busi-  ness,  and  he  couldn't  have  relished  the  prospect.  Nevertheless,  Sutherland  had  to  be  approached,  and  Mr.  Gidney  was  no  shirker.  'That  very  evening  he  went  to  call,  and  on  being  informed  by  Mrs.  Sutherland  that  her  husband  was  &quot;fiddling  a  dance&quot;  at  the  Widow  Daniels',  Mr.  Gidney  drove  to  the  home  of  that  celebrated  hostess.  He  never  de-  scribed  his  evening's  experience  in  my  hearing,  but  I  heard  about  it  soon  enough  around  town.  The  unannounced  appearance  of  the  bank  manager  at  one  of  their  affairs  was  a  signal  occasion  to  the  Midwashers.  They  were  honored.  But  they  also  guessed  why  he  was  there,  and  watched  him  closely,  with  their  backwoodsmen's  curiosity.  The  first  im-  pression  he  made  was  a  good  one-he  gave  the  Widow  a  pinch  that  sent  her  twittering,  and  nursed  the  whiskey  bot-  tle  proffered  by  one  of  the  boys  until  it  had  to  be  almost  wrested  back  from  him.  It  was  remarked  that  he  seemed  like  not  a  bad  fellow.  Picking  his  way  through  a  set  of  square  dancers,  he  hailed  Sutherland,  who  sat  dozing  and  fiddling  in  a  cor-  ner.  Here  there  was  a  delicate  mo-  ment.  Sutherland  ignored  him,  and  Mr.  Gidney  got  hot  under  the  collar.  &quot;I'm  talking  to  you,  Sutherland!&quot;  he  ex-  ploded.  &quot;Have  the  civility  to  pay  atten-  tion!&quot;  Sutherland  merely  smiled.  He  was  probably  only  partially  awake,  almost  certainly  not  entirely  sober.  The  situation  was  relieved  by  a  ragged  chorus  that  went  up  from  the  crowd.  The  set  was  over,  and  they  were  calling,  as  they  were  apt  to  at  such  affairs,  for  a  step  dancer.  A  grinning  youth  with  a  flaming-red  necktie  was  pushed  forward.  Sutherland  waved  him  back.  &quot;I  ain't  fiddling  for  clumsy  trotters,&quot;  he" b"growled,  and  added,  apparently  for  Mr.  Gidney's  benefit,  &quot;We  used  to  have  good  steppers  one  time.  I  don't  know  what's  become  of  them  all.  I  don't  see  none  here  tonight.  'That  kid  there  can't  step  worth  a  damn.&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  stood  hesitant  for  a  moment,  then,  with  sudden  resolve,  took  off  his  coat  and  handed  it  to  a  nearby  girl.  &quot;Let  me  have  the  Inver-  ness  Gathering,&quot;  &quot;he  said  quietly  to  Sutherland.  A  murmur  went  round  the  room.  Sutherland  stared  at  him.  &quot;You're  a  stepper,  Mister?&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  nodded  grimly.  Long  ago,  in  his  youth,  inhis  native  Chaleur  43616e616461village,  before  banking  routine  had  stiffened  his  rhythm  and  his  disposition,  he  had  acquired  this  curious  and,  in  his  present  position,  somewhat  unseemly  accomplishment.  He  was  sensitive  about  it  and  tried  to  keep  it  hidden.  But  it  was  no  secret  in  Benacady.  He  had  per-  {}{formed  there  on  occasion,  when  suffi-  ciently  wound  up,  at  parties.  To  the  Midwashers,  though,  it  came  as  a  sur-  prise.  Afteran  experimental  scrape  or  two  on  his  instrument,  Sutherland  launched  into  the  &quot;Inverness  Gathering,&quot;  and  Mr.  Gidney  leaped  to  the  floor.  He  was  not,  perhaps,  the  most  graceful  of  danc-  ers,  and  his  lack  of  practice  was  ob-  vious.  But  he  had  a  style  of  his  own,  and  he  ended  his  routine  with  a  dra-  matic  flourish,  leaping  high  in  the  air  and  slapping  his  heels  alternately  with  his  hands.  It  brought  down  the  house.  Even  Sutherland  put  aside  his  fiddle  and  joined  in  the  applause.  &quot;Where  did  you  pick  that  up,  Mister?&quot;  he  asked  him.  &quot;Back  home  in  New  Brunswick,&quot;  said  Mr.  Gidney,  retrieving  his  coat.  &quot;I  grew  up  in  fiddling  country,  too,  you  know.&quot;  &quot;Did  you,  now?&quot;  Sutherland  ap-  praised  him  with  new  respect.  &quot;Did  you  have  good  fiddlers  around  there?&quot;  &quot;We  had  damned  good  fiddlers.&quot;  &quot;How  good?&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  remembered  his  mission.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said  grudgingly,  &quot;perhaps  no  better  than  you.&quot;  When  he  left,  shortly  after,  they  shook  hands,  and  Sutherland  was  heard  to  say  that  he  might  drop  into  the  bank  next  day.  Mr.  Gidney  mentioned  none  of  this  when  he  came  to  work  in  the  morning.  He  simply  told  us  to  watch  for  Suther-  land.  Twice,  we  saw  him  look  in  the  window  and  then  pass  on.  But  just  be-  fore  lunch,  when  the  lobby  was  empty,  he  entered  hesitantly,  made  a  leisurely " b"inventory  of  his  pockets  at  the  cus-  tomers'  desk,  and  at  last  approached  Mr.  Gidney,  who  was  waiting  for  him  at  the  counter.  &quot;How  much  interest  do  you  pay  on  money?&quot;  he  inquired.  &quot;One  and  a  half  per  cent,&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  said.  &quot;That's  a  cent  and  a  half  on  the  dollar.&quot;  &quot;'That's  right.&quot;  &quot;It  ain't  much.&quot;  ((NO_,\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;There  ain't  much  sense  putting  money  in  the  bank  for  a  cent  and  a  half  on  the  dollar.&quot;  &quot;Look,  Sutherland,&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  said.  &quot;Just  be  thankful  you're  here  to  deposit  and  not  to  borrow.  Do  you  know  how  much  I'd  charge  youon  a  loan?  Seven  per  cent.&quot;  &quot;Christ!  Would  you,  now?  When  you  look  at  it  that  way,  it's  quitea  sav-  ing.  All  right.  Here.&quot;  He  took  a  large  roll  of  bills  from  his  pocket  and  pushed  it  across  the  counter.  Mr.  Gidney  counted  it.  &quot;'That's  not  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;Where's  the  rest  of  it?!&quot;  Sutherland  indicated  a  bulge  inhis  hip  pocket.  &quot;This  here  belongs  to  old  Nor-  man  Latimer  and  a  few  of  them.  You  got  some  notes  here  that  they  signed  one  time.&quot;  &quot;Give  me  that,  too.  It'll  be  in  your  name-I  can't  confiscate  it.  Is  that  all,  now?  What's  that  in  your  vest  pock-  eth  &quot;'That's  aside-&quot;  &quot;Hand  it  over.  Keeping  aside-you  can't  do  that  in  business,  Sutherland.&quot;  He  passed  it  all  to  me  through  the  bars  of  the  cage.  &quot;Now,&quot;  he  said,&quot;I'll  give  you  until  spring  to  start  clearing  it  out  of  here.  That  money  is  bad  luck  to  me,  and  it's  bad  luck  to  your  people.  The  sooner  they  plow  it  into  something  use-  ful  and  get  back  into  debt,  where  they  belong,  the  better.&quot;  Sutherland  laughed.  &quot;Don't  worry  about  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;T'll  be  opening  my  gold  mine  in  the  spring.&quot;  &quot;Gold  mine,  baloney.  I'll  give  you  no  money  for  such  foolishness,  Suther-  land.  There's  no  more  gold  up  there  than  tomato  ketchup.  Tell  your  people  to  buy  trucks  and  go  to  work  hauling  cordwood.  Buy  one  for  yourself.&quot;  Sutherland  bristled.  &quot;Me  truck  cord-  wood?&quot;  &quot;Buy  some  land  and  grow  potatoes,  then.  Hire  a  hand  or  two  to  do  the  work,  if  you  think  that's  more  in  keep-  ing  with  your  position.  Become&quot;-he  turned  aside  to  wink  at  me-'&quot;a  gen-  tleman  farmer.  That's  a  farmer  who's " b"got  other  people  to  do  the  work  for  him.&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  damned,&quot;  said  Sutherland.  He  took  a  large  calabash  pipe  from  an-  other  of  his  pockets,  filled  and  lit  it  thoughtfully,  and  puffed  it  into  a  head  of  belching  white  smoke.  With  sudden  resolve,  he  buttoned  up  his  horsehide  coat.  &quot;I  must  talk  that  one  over  with  Norman  Latimer  and  some  of  them,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Well,  I'll  see  you  later,  Mis-  ter.  Don't  forget  to  practice  your  step-  ping.  You  got  to  keep  at  it,  you  know.&quot;  Adjusting  his  derby  at  a  rakish  angle,  he  left.  Through  the  cage  grillwork,  Mr.  Gidney  watched  me  sorting  Suther-  land's  money  by  denominations  and  snapping  rubber  bands  around  it.  &quot;''That  will  keep  Head  Office  happy  for  a  while,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;'They're  going  to  yell  bloody  murder  in  the  spring,  when  the  plug  is  pulled  out,  but  there's  no  help  forthat.&quot;  Outside,  a  wandering  cluster  of  Midwashers  paused  at  the  lobby  win-  dow  and  glanced  in,  vacant-faced,  ignorant  of  the  raw  emotions  they  were  capable  of  arousing  in  [REDACTED]  finan-  cial  circles.  Mr.  Gidney  glared  back  at  them.  &quot;I  don't  know  how  many  more  of  these  booms  I  can  survive,&quot;  he  said.  "