 b"IT  is  the  day  after  my  sister  Anne's  I  death,  and  the  family  is  gathering  for  her  funeral.  For  nearly  halfof  her  eighteen  years,  Anne  suffered  from  the  nephritis  that  finally  killed  her,  so  that  her  death  has  been  expected  for  months,  for  years-though  this  makes  our  present  grief  no  less.  I  am  seven,  my  other  sisters,  Nora  and  [REDACTED],  are  ten  and  twelve.  The  adults  have  little  time  for  us  now.  We  watch  and  we  listen.  Most  of  my  father's  relatives  live  nearby,  in  the  clean  suburbs  of  the  West  [REDACTED]  steel  town  where  my  sisters  and  I  have  been  brought  up.  They  are  in  and  out  of  the  house  like  shadows,  deco-  rous  and  proper.  My  mother's  brothers  and  sisters  come  from  farther  away,  from  the  old  town  to  [REDACTED]  and  from  the  great  cities  beyond.  'They  arrive  elaborately,  laden  with  florid  sympathy  and  with  baskets  of  food.  Not  proper  food,  nutrimento-that  would  be  blas-  phemy,  that  would  be  eating  in  fact-  but  food  that  bites  the  senses:  tinned  anchovy  fillets,  peppers  in  vinegar,  black  olives,  chi-chi  beans,  roped  balls  of  Provolone,  thick  skins  of  salami,  and-  lo!l-Ritz  crackers  (&quot;de  Ritza!&quot;).  The  custom  is  shrewd  and  soulfully  Italian.  One  should  not  feast,  no,  but,  for  the  love  of  God,  one  should  not  fast,  either.  They  come,  my  mother's  family,  in  commodious  automobiles,  which  are  at  our  service.  From  dis-  tances,  they  take  the  train-first  class.  My  dear  Aunt  Sara,  my  mother's  plump  and  hap-  py  sister,  is  arriving  from  New  York.  She  is  the  aunt,  she  is  the  one  who  has  promised  me  a  Mickey  Mouse  wristwatch.  My  Aunt  Josie  and  Uncle  Mike  and  I  go  to  the  station  to  meet  her.  I  am  the  first  to  see  her  on  the  station  platform.  How  I  love  her!  She  moves  toward  us  uncertainly,  walking  slowly,  smiling  softly  through  a  black  veil.  She  is  dressed  all  in  black.  I  want  to  tell  her  that  her  train  sped  over  us  as  we  dipped  under  the  [REDACTED]  River  bridge,  but  I  can-  not  penetrate  the  barrier  that  is  my  Aunt  Josie  and  Uncle  Mike.  'They  tease  her.  'These  black  stockings;  what  are  you,  a  widow?&quot;  and  Aunt  Sara  shouts  in  an  accent  that  fascinates  me,  &quot;So,  it's  moider  you  want?  My  old  man  says  I  wear  black,  or  he  beats  me  black-and-  blue!&quot;  (Her  old  man,  my  Uncle  Mario,  is  as  gentle  as  a  man  can  be.)     They  laugh,  and  I  laugh,  but  I  feel  left  out  of  it.  It  is  unfair.  It  is  my  sister  who  has  died.  I  choke  up  and  bawl,  and  they  are  all  over  me,  HE  whole  of  the  Italian  ghetto  in  the  steel  town  to  [REDACTED]  of  us  seems  to  havemigrated  to  our  house,  camped  in  our  dining  room,  and  settled  \xc2\xae  on  our  front  porch.  My  father  and  grandfather  are  building  contractors,  and  the  menwho  work  for  them  have  come  with  their  wives  to  pay  their  respects.  'They  came,  too,  when  my  Grandmother  Caserta,  my  mother's  mother,  died  just  a  year  ago.  The  |  women  are  oddly  matched  with  their  husbands;  they  are  either  much  too  young  or  much  too  old.  They  shadow  their  men  up  the  porch  steps,  but  once  on  the  porch  they  advance,  enter  the  front  door  first,  and  throw  themselves  at  my  mother,  exploding  &quot;Santa  Marias!&quot;  as  they  embrace.  The  men-  red-faced  hod  carriers  and  bricklayers,  awkward  in  their  Sunday  clothes-  wait  on  the  porch,  then  shake  hands  -  stiffly  with  my  mother  and  goon  into  |  the  dining  room,  where  my  father  and  my  grandfather  receive  them.  I  stand  in  the  corner  by  the  sideboard,  out  of  the  way.  One  little  man,  with  a  dried-  ;  up  face  and  a  mouth  full  of  kernel  teeth,  sees  me  and  comes  over,  muttering  something  in  Italian  that  I  cannot  un-  derstand.  'This  is  Sylvester  Rocco,  my  father's  oldest  bricklayer.  He  smells  of  wine,  and  his  round  eyes  fill  with  tears.  I  nodand  smile,  we  shake  hands,  and  he  leaves.  No  one  stays  for  long.  They  move  on  to  the  living  room,  where  the  women  and  their  men  kneel  together  at  my  sister's  bier.  They  cross  themselves,  pray  audibly,  and  then  go  out  to  sit  in  the  sunshine  on  the  porch.  My  grandmother  on  my  father's  side  sits  with  them.  She  is  in  her  glory,  for  she  loves  to  break  away  from  her  prim  English-speaking  children.  (All  but  my  father  and  his  youngest  brother,  Uncle  Pete,  have  gone  to  college.)  The  fold-  ing  chair  disappears  under  her  bulk,  and  she  sits  with  her  fat,  wrinkled  hands  on  her  knees  and  shakes  her  head  as  she  talks.  The  tiny  gold  hearts  in  her  ears  flash  and  punctuate  her  busy  Italian.  I  |  want  her  to  come  into  the  house,  so  that  I  can  avoid  going  out  to  her  among  all  those  strangers,  but  my  grandfather-  the  man  of  action,  the  man  who  proudly " b"accepts  his  Anglicized  name-embraces  me,  scratches  my  face  with  his  whisk-  ered  chin,  and  conveys  me  to  her.  &quot;Joe,  Joe,&quot;  she  chants,  and  hangs  on  to  my  hands.  &quot;Bel  ragazzo,&quot;  she  says,  over  and  over.  &quot;Bel  ragazzo.&quot;  The  porch  has  grown  quiet,  and  I  know  nothing  appropriate  in  Italian.  How  will  I  con-  verse  with  her?  They  all  watch  me,  envelop  me.  Grandma  rocks  her  head  girlishly  from  side  to  side,  admiring  me,  her  only  grandson;  her  eyes  fill  up  with  tears  in  sympathy  and  she  releases  one  hand.  Her  wadded  handkerchief  has  slipped  deep  inside  the  ample  bosom  of  her  dress,  and  while  she  searches,  I  twist  my  captive  hand  free  and  run  down  the  stairs.  I  am  always  running  away,  like  her  husband,  like  her  children.  The  fact  is,  I  am  humiliated  by  this  invasion  of  foreigners.  What  will  the  neighbors  think?  NOW  itis  night,  and  nearlyevery-  one  has  gone;  they  will  be  back  tomorrow,  for  the  funeral.  Mother  and  Aunt  Sara  sit  in  the  pantry,  and  I  hud-  dle  under  a  sheet  on  the  studio  couch  in  the  breakfast  room,  listening  to  their  soft  conversation.  'They  talk  in  Italian,  little  of  which  I  can  understand.  Some-  times  my  parents  speak  Italian  when  they  want  to  hide  things  from  me.  Usually  I  am  offended,  but  tonight  I  realize  how  lovely  my  mother's  voice  sounds  when  she  speaks  in  her  ancestral  tongue.  It  seems  they  are  talking  about  my  sister  Anne,  but  no,  they  are  talking  about  the  death  of  their  mother,  my  Grandmother  Caserta,  the  year  be-  fore.  (Aunt  Sara  was  ill  in  New  York  when  Grandma  died  in  Uncle  Mike's  house.)  &quot;Bea,  how  sick  was  Ma,  really?&quot;  My  aunt  switches  to  the  harsh  impar-  tiality  of  English.  Mother  lists  Grandma's  many  ill-  nesses,  thorqughly,  so  that  they  become  thick  and  darkly  malignant  and  blot  out  their  victim  altogether.  Then,  after  a  long,  ticking  silence,  Mother  says,  &quot;Do  you  know,  Sara-oh,  I  never  told  anybody  this-but  at  Ma's  funeral  not  one  old  peeseno  recognized  me.  The  honest-to-God  truth!  Her  oldest  daugh-  ter,  and  no  one  knew  me!&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Beal  &quot;It'strue,  so  help  me,  Sara!  Oh  sure,  Mr.  Rocco  and  his  wife-some  of  Lou's  other  laborers-knew  me,  but  nobody  else.  Oh,  it's  not  that  I  mind.  It's  just  I  was  so  surprised.  Remember  how  it  was,  Sara?  Gees-zoy!  The  dirt  and  the  filth!  God  in  Heaven,  how  we  ever  lived  there!  The  life  is  so  differ-  ent  here.  Oh,  you  can't  go  backwards " b"in  this  life,  no  matter  how  you  look  at  it.  Lou  won't  drive  up  that  way-you  know  how  my  husband's  family  is.&quot;  &quot;Ha!  Do  I!&quot;  &quot;God  in  Heaven,  Lou  would  even  put  the  funeral  in  the  funeral  home.&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Bea!  39  &quot;Honest  to  God!  I  put  my  foot  down  on  that.  For  me,  it's  such  a  cold,  such  a  terrible,  cold  way  to  treat  your  own  flesh  and  blood.&quot;  There  is  a  blowing  of  noses,  and  Mother  continues  in  a  scandalized  voice,  &quot;Can  you  imagine  what  those  old  Ital-  ians  would  think?  Whew!  Oh,  Sara,  when  Anne  turned  bad  this  time,  you  should  see  the  cards.  Remember  those  cards  with  the  lace  and  rosy-red  faces  you  know,  those  real  old-fashioned  Ital-  ian  cards?  Anne  got  them  all  the  time.  Oh,  God  bless  them,  Sara,  they  don't  know  me  any  more,  but  just  the  same  they  come  all  the  way  up  here  to  help  out.&quot;  Mother  begins  to  cry  softly.  &quot;Eight-  een,  Sara!  Eighteen  years  old-dear  God!&quot;  This  last  sets  them  off,  and  they  cry  so  long  and  so  loudly  that  they  wind  up  ridiculing  themselves.  &quot;Gees-zoy,&quot;  Mother  says,  &quot;we'll  wake  up  the  house!&quot;  There  is  the  fiery  crackle  of  the  coffee  bag,  the  squeal  of  the  kitchen  faucet,  and  then,  roughly,  Aunt  Sara's  hoarse  whisper:  &quot;Hey,  Bea,  look  at  us,  soppin'  wet!  What  big  paesans  we  are!&quot;  HE  morning  of  the  funeral  is  clear  and  white-lighted  as  we  set  out  for  the  church  and  the  cemetery.  My  mother,  my  father,  my  two  sisters,  and  I  ride  in  my  father's  Dodge;  Uncle  Pete,  my  father's  younger  brother,  is  driving.  There  are  many  automobiles,  butnot  enough  to  hold  us  all  without  crowding,  and  my  father's  brother  Albert,  an  auto  dealer,  is  resented  by  my  mother's  rela-  tives  because  he  has  brought  a  coup\xc3\xa9.  The  caravan  winds  slowly  down  our  green  and  open  street  and  heads  east  out  of  the  suburbs  toward  the  place  from  which  my  mother  and  father  escaped-  the  close,  begrimed  steel  plants  of  their  youth.  In  church,  I  think  it  fitting  that  I  should  penitently  kneel  throughout  the  Mass,  and  I  must  be  tugged  up  to  my  seat  by  my  father  at  the  eulogy.  When  we  are  outside  again,  and  seated  in  the  Dodge,  Uncle  Pete  breaks  down  on  the  wheel  and  sobs  loudly.  &quot;Oh,  Pete,  Pete!&quot;  Mother  comforts  him.  &quot;I  think  it  was  better,  I  think  it  was  better.&quot;  At  the  cemetery,  Anne's  grave  site  has  been  slickly  concealed.  Green  tent-  ing  hides  the  stone  markers,  the  sus-  pended  bier  plugs  the  grave  opening," b"red  roses  blanket  the  coffin,  grassy  mat-  ting  suffocates  the  earth,  and  even  the  sky  is  banned  by  a  canopy.  Where  there  is  no  life  there  is  no  death,  and  we  stand  dulled  and  silent.  But  what  the  funeral  home  has  hidden  the  priest  searches  out.  He  reaches  under  the  car-  peting  and  scoops  up  a  handful  of  damp  earth,  and  it  is  this  earth,  this  bit  of  moss  and  matter,  that  breaks  the  dam  in  all  of  us.  E  are  taken,  taken  to  the  home  of  Sylvester  Rocco,  the  little  man  with  the  dried-up  face,  where  my  moth-  er  and  father,  my  sisters,  and  I  are  to  stop  off  for  lunch  before  we  go  on  home.  My  sisters  are  furious.  The  Roccos  aren't  even  related  to  us,  and  their  house  is  near  the  steel  mills,  in  the  poor-  est  part  of  town.  Uncle  Pete  drives  us  there;  then  he  must  go  back  to  work.  He  is  the  only  one  in  my  father's  family  who  still  works  in  the  mills.  The  ruined  streets  astound  my  sisters  andme;  they  are  sooty  and  narrow  and  crowded  in  on  either  side  by  curious  viny  greens.  A  sun-  and  dust-aged  picket  gate  opens,  and  we  descend  from  the  hot,  close  air  to  a  cool,  open  patio  roofed  by  a  grape-  vine.  The  packed  gray  earth  in  this  rec-  tangulararbor  is  immaculately  swept;  the  laths  of  light  that  filter  through  the  vines  fall  about  like  yellow  leaves.  &quot;Buon  giorno,  buon  giorno&quot;  -soft-  ly,  funereally.  A  swarthy,  gold-toothed  woman  stands  in  the  door  of  the  house  with  one  plump  arm  thrown  back  to-  ward  the  interior.  The  moleon  the  side  of  her  nose  is  as  black  as  the  plain  dress  she  wears  under  her  brittle  white  apron.  The  room  to  which  she  welcomes  us  is  boxy  and  thick-walled,  and  it  smells  of  damp  concrete  and  pungent,  familiar  cooking.  The  floor  is  soft,  cradle-worn  wood;  the  walls  are  covered  with  newly  whitewashed  tile.  Straddling  the  room  is  a  thick  wooden  table.It  is  covered  by  a  glassy  white  cloth,  and  its  center-  piece  is  a  sparkling  cluster  of  jelly-jar  tumblers.  Sylvester  Rocco  comes  smil-  ing  from  the  kitchen  with  wet  hands  and  afreshly  filled  jug,  and  he  wants  to  give  us  wine.  My  sisters  refuse-they  edge  toward  the  wall-but  he  is  my  father's  oldest  worker,  and  Father  in-  sists.  &quot;It  won't  kill  you,&quot;  Mr.  Rocco  says  to  me,and  he  pours  recklessly  from  the  jug  so  that  the  red  liquid  runs  out  over  the  top  of  the  tumbler,  through  my  fingers  to  the  floor.  Mother  puts  her  arms  around  my  sisters  and  says  that  she  will  take  a  nap.  It  seems  strange  that  she  would  do  this  in  what  is  to  my  sisters  and  me  an  uninviting  house.  But  now  her  brothers  and  sisters  and  a  grown " b"nephew,  my  cousin  Frank,  arrive.  They  come  down  into  the  patio  single  file,  their  heads  down,  bobbing  like  chickens.  My  Aunt  Sara  puts  one  fleshy  arm  around  Mother's  shoulders.  &quot;Hey,  Bea,  why  don't  you  lie  down?&quot;  &quot;I  thought  I  would.&quot;  My  Uncle  Mike,  my  mother's  eldest  brother,  a  grocer  in  the  city,  nearly  scrapes  his  head  as  he  comes  through  the  door.  His  wild,  thick  eyebrows  fly  up.  &quot;What,&quot;  he  says  to  Mother,  &quot;you  still  up?&quot;  My  Uncle  Dominick,  a  cabinetmak-  er  and  an  opera  lover  of  ferocious  dedi-  cation  (he  once  flung  a  radio  through  a  glass  door  after  an  announcer  confused  Puccini  with  Ponchielli),  stops  on  the  far  side  of  the  doorway,  his  hand  shield-  ing  the  light  from  his  bald  head.  &quot;Get  to  bed,  get  to  bed,&quot;  he  says  out  of  the  side  of  his  mouth.  My  uncles'  wives  are  solicitous,  too,  but  they  attend  to  what  can  be  done.  Aunt  Lucia,  Dominick's  wife,  draws  a  chair  up  for  Mother,  and  Aunt  Josie,  Mike's  wife,  takes  Mother's  purse  and  puts  it  on  a  blue  commode  that  stands  against  the  wall.  Sylvester  insists  that  they  have  wine,  too,  but  they  must  go;  they  must,  they  must.  'The  women  want  to  hurry  to  our  house  to  have  it  ready  for  us.  The  men  will  drive.  &quot;A-sit,  a-sit,  a-sit,&quot;&quot;  Sylvester  chants  \xe2\x80\x9cMaybe  I  will  have  a  glass  of  wine,&quot;  Mother  decides.  So  they  all  will  stay  for  just  one  glass  of  wine.  My  cousin  Frank  sees  that  they  will  stay,  and  he  comes  in  from  the  patio.  He  is  Uncle  Mike's  and  Aunt  Josie's  son,  twenty-two  years  old,  and  he  likes  to  tease.  He  winks  at  Mother,  squeezes  my  shoulder,  and  follows  Mrs.  Rocco  into  the  kitchen.  He  reappears  with  an  egg  and  steals  up  behind  Uncle  Dominick,  seated  in  a  chair  having  his  wine.  &quot;Hey,&quot;  he  calls,  holding  the  egg  directly  over  my  uncle's  bald  head,  &quot;this  will  grow  hair.&quot;  &quot;Hey-ayyyyyyyyy!&quot;  Aunt  Lucia  screams,  her  soft  voice  gone  rusty.  &quot;What?  What?&quot;  Unce  Dominick  spins  around  in  his  chair,  throwing  a  crescent  of  wine  at  his  wife.  My  cousin  bobs,  and  the  egg  drops  on  Uncle  Dominick's  head,  splattering  and  running  down  over  his  forehead  and  under  his  glasses.  &quot;It  slipped,  it  slipped!&quot;  my  cousin  cries,  convulsed  with  laughter.  He  stag-  gers  and  grips  my  uncle's  head  in  his  hands  like  a  vise,  just  in  time  to  catch  and  cup  up  some  of  the  yolk.  &quot;A  rag,  a  rag!&quot;  Aunt  Lucia  bleats,  holding  her  wet  dress  up  like  a  soiled  apron.  Aunt  Sara  and  Mother  are  " b" in  and  out  of  the  kitchen  with  tow-  els.  Aunt  Josie  is  agitated.  She  com  es  bounding  tow  ar  d  h  er  s  on  an  d  cuf  fs  him  over  the  hea  d.  &quot;Buffone!  Pow!&quot;  she  says.  My  cousin  ducks,  and  the  wad  in  his  han  d  wreathes  my  unc  le  's  e  ar,  Uncle  D  omi  n  ick  whoops,  seizes  my  aunt's  fi  lled  g  las  s,  and  upends  it  on  his  neph-  ew  's  head.  &quot;Hey,  hey,  cut  it  out!&quot;  Uncle  Mike  pounds  his  grocer's  fist  on  the  tab  l  e,  and  another  tumbler  goes  down.  Ri  vu-  lets  of  wine  s  tain  the  w  hite  cloth.  &quot;Uh-oh,&quot;  my  father  says,  &quot;now  they  sq  uar  e  off.&quot;  Uncle  Dominick  an  d  Cousin  Frank  b  link  at  o  ne  another  like  two  sweaty  gladlators  The  wine  has  parted  my  cousin's  hair  sideways;  it  drlps  off  the  edge  of  his  plastered  bangs  into  the  cor-  ners  of  his  mouth.  &quot;A-huh!  A-huh!&quot;  Uncle  Dominick  cries,  on  the  verge  of  laughter.  &quot;Now  you  know  who  to  monkey  with.&quot;  &quot;Monkey!&quot;  Aunt  Sara  shouts.  &quot;Monkeys,  you  mean!&quot;  Her  warrior  voice  bounces  off  the  four  walls,  and  then  she  howls  with  laughter,  creating  a  sort  of  duet  with  the  echo.  Mother  shakes  her  head  and  laughs,  too,  and  it  seems  that  everyone  joins  in.  But  that  is  not  so.  My  sisters,  disapproving,  stand  stiffly  near  the  wall.  While  the  wet  and  wounded  curry  themselves,  Sylvester,  grieved  at  his  wasted  wine,  petulantly  acts  out  what  has  happened:  &quot;Bust-un  egg,  bust-un  egg-boom!-Ah,  ah  [a  short  whis-  tle],  vinol-Buffone!-Pow\\  -  Ahhh-uh  [c  long  whistle],  vino!  -  Bang'  -Vino!-Ha-ha,  ha-ha!&quot;  He  lifts  the  gallon  jug,  and  he  makes  the  task  of  \xef\xac\x81lling  the  empty  tumblers  with  his  good  wine  profoundly  interesting  and  a  little  sad.  A  stillness  falls  on  the  room.  Now  everyone  sips  the  wine  sol-  emnly,  sheepishly  My  Uncle  Dominick  and  my  cousin  are  the  picture  of  dignity.  Mrs.  Rocco  comes  in  with  the  antipasto,  and  this  is  the  signal  for  all  to  go.  Noth-  ing  will  keep  them;  no,  no,  they  must  go.  Soon  only  my  mother  and  father,  my  sisters,  and  I  remain,  FTER  my  relatives  have  broken  away,  Mother  disappears  to  nap.  The  rest  of  us  are  coaxed  into  chairs  around  the  table  and  offered  the  anti-  pasto.  Sylvester,  Father,  and  Ieat  rav-  enously;  my  sisters  engage  the  olives,  their  noses  turned  up.  The  minestrone  smells  like  hickory;  it  is  earth-warm  and  sweet.  After  that,  there  is  paste  and  boiled  chicken.  My  sisters  eat  the  chick-  en  with  us,  but  they  have  seen  the " b"lemon  ice,  and  they  are  saving  for  that.  We  have  the  ice  and  coffee  under  the  vines.  I  will  not  touch  the  coffee,  for  it  would  stunt  my  growth,  but  my  sis-  ters,  who  care  nothing  about  health,  want  that  most  of  all.  Sylvester  crooks  his  finger.  &quot;V  enite-  venite  a  vedere  il  nostro  giardino.&quot;  &quot;Go  look  at  his  garden,&quot;  my  father  says  to  me,  and  I  follow  Sylvester  through  the  kitchen  to  the  back  of  the  house.  He  takes  me  down  between  the  meandering  greens,  urging  me  to  re-  peat  after  him  the  Italian  word  for  each  plant.  &quot;Lattuga-lattuuuuuuga  ...  Cipolla-cipollllla  ..  .  Ra-deesh-rad-  ish?  S8i/&quot;  He  slides  a  small  pearly  pen-  knife  from  his  vest  pocket  and  cuts  the  runner  of  a  long  green  melon,  hand-  ing  it  to  me  in  a  cradle  of  dusty  leaves.  &quot;Zuc-ch-m,&quot;  he  says,  showing  his  teeth.  &quot;Zuc-chi-n,&quot;  I  repeat.  When  we  leave  and  are  in  the  Dodge-Father  is  driving  now-  Mother  turns  around  from  the  front  seat  and  asks  what  we  think.  &quot;So  much  oil,&quot;  my  sister  [REDACTED]  says.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Mother  agrees,  a  sadness  coming  over  her  face,  &quot;they  use  a  lot,  those  old  Italians.&quot;  &quot;Look,  Ma,  I  have  zuc-chi-n,&quot;'  I  say,  holding  open  a  brown  paper  bag.  &quot;Oh,  whattaya  goin'  to  do  with  that  dirty  old  thing,&quot;  [REDACTED]  cries.  &quot;Why,  it  tastes  good,&quot;  Mother  says.  &quot;Ha!  You  know  I  haven't  had  zue-  chini  since-oh,  I  don't  know  when!&quot;  She  sighs,  and  we  wait  happily  for  more  of  her  old  self,  but  unexpectedly  she  falls  silent,  and  as  we  bounce  along  the  road  her  head  goes  down  and  her  shoulders  begin  to  shake.  &quot;Come  on,  Bea,&quot;  my  father  says.  &quot;Don't  cry.  It's  all  over.&quot;"