 b"ON  Eighth  Street,  in  the  Village,  there  is  a  modest  restaurant,  humanely  lighted,  not  too  bright  and  not  too  dark,  where  I  used  to  spend  about  two  hours  every  day,  sometimes  in  the  afternoon  and  some-  times  in  the  evening,  sitting  always  at  a  small  table  by  the  large  street  window.  'The  window  was  recessed,  and  half  curtained,  and  it  was  furnished  with  an  oversized  Tiffany  lamp  and  an  over-  sized  bronze-colored  crock  that  held  artificial  flowers  or  artificial  leaves,  ac-  cording  to  the  season  of  the  year.  I  spent  a  good  deal  of  time  by  that  window.  I  remember  being  there  on  November  nights  when  it  was  snowing  and  all  the  people  hurrying  by  were  brightened  by  their  white  crowns  and  white  epaulets,  and  then  there  were  afternoons  in  mid-  summer  when  I  hardly  dared  look  out  for  fear  of  seeing  some  struggling  man  or  woman  become  finally  embedded  in  the  thick  heat,  to  vanish  forever  as  I  watched.  I  was  such  a  faithful  customer  that  a  Martini  usually  appeared  on  the  table  while  I  was  still  arranging  my  books  in  the  order  in  which  I  would  look  at  them.  There  was  a  small  serv-  ice  bar  halfway  down  the  room,  which  was  very  long  and  very  narrow,  but  there  was  no  place  where  people  could  just  sit  and  drink.  It  was  a  decorous  place,  with  exactly  as  much  style  as  a  nice,  plain  tearoom.  I  used  to  always  carry  three  or  four  books  with  me,  and  if  I  had  just  visited  the  bookshop  across  the  street,  I  often  had  six  or  more  to  look  through  when  I  was  not  attending  to  the  outside  scene.  One  afternoon-it  was  au-  tumn;  there  was  an  armful  of  flaming,  papery  leaves  in  the  crock  beside  me-I  glanced  up  to  see  two  nuns  walking  by,  walking  west  toward  Sixth  Ave-  nue.  All  nuns  look  alike.  Their  black  draperies,  their  resolute  tread,  and  their  remote  air-everything  about  them  was  familiar  to  me.  I  was  surprised  to  see  them,  as  I  am  always  surprised  to  see  nuns  abroad  in  New  York,  and  I  thought,  as  I  had  thought  at  other  times,  that  it  is  out  of  the  ordinary  to  see  nuns  here,  and  a  very  ordinary  mat-  ter  to  see  them  in  [REDACTED],  where  I  was  born.  There  was  a  time,  during  the  years  I  spent  in  a  convent  boarding  school  and  for  many  years  afterward,  when  the  sight  of  a  nun  would  fill  me  with  apprehensiveness  and  dislike,  and  I  was  glad  then,  sitting  by  that  restau-  rant  window,  to  know  those  years  were  gone.  That  afternoon,  I  had  arrived  at  the  restaurant  when  the  lunch  hour  was  \\o  155  over,  and  now,  except  for  two  waiters,  the  place  was  empty.  I  like  empty  res-  taurants,  and  I  had  counted  on  having  all  the  tables  and  booths  to  myself.  Even  the  cash  register,  by  the  door,  was  un-  guarded.  I  had  taken  the  afternoon  off,  but  why,  what  excuse  I  had  offered  my-  self,  I  can't  remember.  Perhaps  I  felt  free  because  it  was  autumn  again.  Even  so,  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  is  no  hour  for  anybody  to  be  sitting  at  a  win-  dow  in  a  public  restaurant  with  a  Mar-  tini  in  front  of  her,  or  half  a  Martini,  as  it  was  by  the  time  the  nuns  passed,  and  it  seemed  miraculous  to  be  able  to  be  so  free  and  independent  that  I  could  be  in  the  restaurant  I  preferred  and  drink  what  I  liked  and  eat  what  I  liked  and  read  the  books  of  my  choice  and  see  two  nuns  pass  and  feel  nothing  except  a  slight  surprise-no  apprehensiveness,  no  wild  survey  of  a  panicky  conscience,  nothing  like  that.  The  two  nuns  who  ran  that  board-  ing  school  were  violent  women.  The  head  nun  was  short  and  fat  and  her  assistant  was  tall  and  thin,  and  they  both  had  genteel  accents,  the  fat  one  speaking  low,  the  thin  one  high.  The  Head  taught  English  and  her  assistant  conducted  singing  classes,  but  they  spent  most  of  their  time  looking  for  sin.  Their  task  was  easy,  because  of  course  we  were  all  filled  with  sins,  butthey  worked  hard  at  it.  They  were  always  on  patrol,  sometimes  together  and  sometimes  sepa-  rately.  They  patrolled  the  silent  study  hall,  and  they  patrolled  the  corridors,  and  they  patrolled  the  classrooms  and  the  washrooms,  and  they  even  patrolled  the  dormi-  tories,  often  walking  between  the  beds  after  the  lights  were  out.  We  knew  what  they  were  hunting  for,  of  course,  and  as  soon  as  one  of  them  appeared  in  the  doorway  of  a  classroom,  or  any-  where,  we  all  knew  that  sin  had  been  stalked  home  and  that  at  least  one  person  in  the  room  was  going  to  have  to  answer  for  herself.  The  only  thing  was,  we  did  not  know  which  one  ofus  it  would  be.  I  always  felt  I  was  the  sinner,  and  Isup-  pose  the  others  felt  the  same.  The  Devil  works  in  mysterious  ways,  and  there  was  never  any  way  of  knowing  which  of  our  faces  he  had  chosen  to  reveal  himself  in.  We  never  knew  where  we  were.  Those  two  nuns  tracked  him  down  even  in  the  refectory,  where  we  had  breakfast,  dinner,  tea,  and  supper.  They  never  seemed  to  notice  what  was  on  our  plates.  Awful  food.  It  was  always  tea  and  bread  scraped  with  butter,  except  at  midday  dinner,  when  it  was  boiled  po-  tatoes.  And  at  supper  the  tea  was  re- " b"placed  with  vile  cocoa.  For  breakfast  on  Mondays  and  Wednesdays  and  Fri-  days,  the  tea  and  b  &amp;  b  were  accom-  panied  by  one  tablespoonful  of  dates  that  had  been  boiled  into  a  thin  soup,  or,  as  the  nun  who  cooked  would  have  said,  a  jam.  On  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays,  breakfast  was  emboldened  by  a  wafer  of  cold  porridge  damped  with  blue  milk,  on  Saturdays  by  a  spot  of  marmalade,  and  on  Sundays  by  an  ugly  morsel  of  bacon.  Teatime  and  suppertime  were  all  bread  and  butter,  except  that  at  tea-  time  we  were  allowed  to  bring  out  the  jam  and  cake  we  had  received  in  pack-  ages  from  home.  Some  girls  got  parcels  from  home  and  some  didn't.  Those  who  did  had  the  privilege  of  going  around  from  table  to  table  (there  were  five  long,  narrow  tables)  carrying  pots  of  jam  and  big  cakes  and  bestowing  their  favors  on  the  girls  they  liked  and  walk-  ing  past  the  girls  they  didn't  like.  There  were  about  sixty  of  us,  aged  from  seven  to  eighteen,  and  sometimes  the  room  was  quite  busy  at  teatime,  especially  at  the  beginning  of  each  term,  when  every-  body  had  something  to  walk  about  with.  I  can't  remember  Sunday  dinner,  but  on  Mondays  and  Wednesdays  it  was  boiled  potatoes  with  black  pudding  that  was  nearly  all  gray,  and  on  Tuesdays  and  Thursdays  it  was  said  to  be  corned  beef.  On  Fridays  something  fishy,  and  on  Saturdays  a  stew-an  end-of-the-week  stew.  I  was  thinking  of  that  Saturday  stew  and  admiring  the  huge  menu  the  wait-  er  had  left  on  my  table  when  the  en-  trance  door  of  the  restaurant  opened  and  the  two  nuns  walked  in.  They  had  been  looking  for  a  nice  quiet  place  to  eat,  and  they  had  found  it.  They  walked  quickly,  without  making  a  sound,  straight  down  the  restaurant,  and  I  watched  them  all  the  way,  and  watched  until  they  had  settled  them-  selves  in  a  distant  booth.  Then  I  went  back  to  my  menu.  The  menu  was  still  in  my  left  hand,  tilted  up,  as  I  had  been  holding  it,  but  my  right  hand,  with  the  empty  Martini  glass  in  it,  had  somehow  gone  under  the  table  andwas  hiding  there  behind  the  tablecloth.  It  was  the  moment  of  no  comment.  It  was  the  moment  of  no  comment."