 b"Tom  and  Jessica  Coliver  lived  in  Proxmire  Manor,  a  place  that  was  known  up  and  down  the  suburban  railroad  line  as  the  place  where  the  lady  got  arrested.  The  incident  had  taken  place  five  or  six  years  before,  but  it  had  the  endurance  of  a  legend,  and  the  lady  had  seemed  briefly  to  be  the  genius  of  the  pretty  place.  The  facts  are  sim-  ple.  With  the  exception  of  one  robbery,  still  unsolved,  the  eight-man  police  force  of  Proxmire  Manor  had  never  found  anything  to  do.  Their  only  use-  fulness  was  to  direct  traffic  at  weddings  and  large  cocktail  parties.  They  listened  day  and  night  on  the  interstate  police  radio  to  the  crimes  and  alarms  in  oth-  er  communities-car  thefts,  mayhem,  drunkenness,  and  murder-but  the  blotter  in  Proxmire  Manor  was  clean.  The  burden  of  this  idleness  on  their  self-  esteem  was  heavy  as,  armed  with  pistols  and  bandoleers  of  ammunition,  they  spent  their  days  writing  parking  tickets  for  the  cars  left  at  the  railroad  station.  It  was  like  a  child's  game,  ticketing  commuters  for  the  most  trifling  infrac-  tions  of  the  rules  the  police  themselves  invented,  and  they  played  it  enthusias-  tically.  The  lady-Mrs.  Lemuel  Jameson-  had  similar  problems.  Her  children  were  away  at  school,  her  housework  was  done  by  a  maid,  and  though  she  played  cards  and  lunched  with  friends,  she  was  often  made  ill-tempered  by  abrasive  boredom.  Coming  home  from  an  unsuccessful  shopping  trip  in  New  York  one  after-  noon,  she  found  her  car  ticketed  for  being  a  little  over  a  white  line.  She  tore  the  ticket  to  pieces.  Later  that  after-  noon,  a  policeman  found  the  pieces  in  the  dirt  and  took  them  to  the  police  sta-  tion,  where  they  were  pasted  together.  The  police  were  excited,  of  course,  at  this  open  challenge  to  their  authority.  Mrs.  Jameson  was  served  with  a  sum-  mons.  She  called  her  friend  Judge  Flint-he  was  a  member  of  the  Club-  and  asked  him  to  fix  it.  He  said  that  he  would,  but  later  that  afternoon  he  had  an  attack  of  acute  appendicitis  and  was  taken  to  the  hospital.  When  Mrs.  Jame-  son's  name  was  called  in  traffic  court  and  there  was  no  response,  the  police  were  alert.  A  warrant  for  her  arrest  was  issued,  the  first  such  warrant  in  years.  In  the  morning  two  patrolmen,  heavily  armed  and  in  fresh  uniforms  and  in  the  company  of  an  old  police  matron,  drove  to  Mrs.  Jameson's  house  with  the  warrant.  A  maid  opened  the  door  and  said  that  Mrs.  Jameson  was  sleeping.  With  at  least  a  hint  of  force,  they  en-  tered  the  beautiful  drawing  room  and  told  the  maid  to  wake  Mrs.  Jameson.  When  Mrs.  Jameson  heard  that  the  police  were  downstairs,  she  was  indig-  nant.  She  refused  to  move.  The  maid  went  downstairs,  and  in  a  minute  or  two  Mrs.  Jameson  heard  the  heavy  steps  of  the  policemen.  She  was  horri-  fied.  Would  they  dare  enter  her  bed-  room?  The  ranking  officer  spoke  to  her  from  the  hall.  &quot;You  get  out  of  bed,  lady,  and  come  with  us,  or  we'll  get  you  up.&quot;  Mrs.  Jameson  began  to  scream.  The  police  matron,  reaching  for  her  shoul-  der  holster,  entered  the  bedroom.  Mrs.  Jameson  went  on  screaming.  The  ma-  tron  told  her  to  get  up  and  dress  or  they  would  take  her  to  the  station  house  in  her  night  clothes.  When  Mrs.  Jameson  started  for  the  bathroom,  the  matron  followed  her  and  she  began  to  scream  again.  She  was  hysterical.  She  screamed  at  the  policemen  when  she  encountered  them  in  the  upstairs  hallway,  but  she  let  herself  be  led  out  to  the  car  and  driven  to  the  station  house.  Here  she  began  to  scream  again.  She  finally  paid  the  one-  dollar  fine  and  was  sent  home  in  a  taxi.  Mrs.  Jameson  was  determined  to  have  the  policemen  fired,  and  the  mo-  ment  she  walked  into  her  house  she  be-  gan  to  organize  her  campaign.  Counting  over  her  neighbors  for  someone  who  would  be  eloquent  and  sympathetic,  she  thought  of  Peter  Dolmetch,  a  free-  lance  television  writer,  who  rented  the  Fulsoms'  gatehouse.  No  one  liked  him,  but  Mrs.  Jameson  sometimes  invited  him  to  her  cocktail  parties,  and  he  was  indebted  to  her.  She  called  and  told  him  her  story.  &quot;I  can't  believe  it,  darling,&quot;  he  said.  She  said  that  she  was  asking  him,  because  of  his  natural  eloquence,  to  defend  her.  &quot;I'm  against  Fascism,  dar-  ling,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;wherever  it  raises  its  ugly  head.&quot;  She  then  called  the  mayor  and  demanded  a  hearing.  It  was  set  for  eight-thirty  that  night.  Mr.  Jameson  happened  to  be  away  on  business.  She  called  a  few  friends,  and  by  noon  every-  one  in  Proxmire  Manor  knew  that  she  had  been  humiliated  by  a  policewoman,  who  followed  her  into  the  bathroom  and  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  tub  while  she  dressed,  and  that  Mrs.  Jameson  had  been  taken  to  the  station  house  at  the  point  of  a  gun.  Fifteen  or  twenty  neigh-  bors  showed  up  for  the  hearing.  The  mayor  and  his  councilmen  numbered  seven,  and  the  two  patrolmen  and  the  matron  were  also  there.  When  the  meeting  was  called  to  order,  Peter  stood  and  asked,  &quot;Has  Fascism  come  to  Prox-  mire  Manor?  Is  the  ghost  of  Hitler  stalking  our  tree-shaded  streets?  Must" b"we,  in  the  privacy  of  our  homes,  dread  the  tread  of  the  Storm  Troopers'  boots  on  our  sidewalks  and  the  pounding  of  the  mailed  fist  on  the  door?&quot;  On  and  on  he  went.  He  must  have  spent  all  day  writing  it.  It  was  all  aimed  at  Hitler,  with  only  a  few  passing  references  to  Mrs.  Jameson.  The  audience  began  to  cough,  to  yawn,and  then  to  excuse  themselves,  When  the  protest  was  dis-  missed  and  the  meeting  adjourned,  there  was  no  one  left  but  the  principals,  and  Mrs.  Jameson's  case  was  lost,  but  it  was  not  forgotten.  'The  conductor  on  the  train,  passing  the  green  hills,  would  say,  &quot;'They  arrested  a  lady  there  yesterday;&quot;  then,  &quot;'They  arrested  a  lady  there  last  month;&quot;  and  presently,  &quot;That's  the  place  where  the  lady  got  arrested.&quot;  That  was  Proxmire  Manor.  HE  village  stood  on  three  leafy  hills  north  of  the  city,  and  was  handsome  and  comfortable,  and  seemed  to  have  eliminated,  through  adroit  social  pressures,  the  thorny  side  of  human  na-  ture.  This  knowledge  was  forced  on  Jessica  Coliver  one  afternoon  when  a  neighbor,  Laura  Hilliston,  came  in  for  a  glass  of  sherry.  &quot;What  I  wanted  to  tell  you,&quot;  Laura  said,  &quot;is  that  Grace  Lock-  hart  is  a  slut.&quot;  Jessica  heard  the  words  down  the  length  of  the  room  as  she  was  pouring  sherry,  and  wondered  if  she  had  heard  correctly,  the  remark  seemed  so  callous.  What  kind  of  tidings  were  these  to  carry  from  house  to  house?  She  was  never  sure-how  could  one  be,  it  was  all  so  experimental-of  the  exact  nature  and  intent  of  the  society  in  which  she  lived,  but  did  it  really  embrace  this  kind  of  thing?  Laura  Hilliston  laughed.  Her  laugh-  ter  was  healthy  and  her  teeth  were  white.  She  sat  on  the  sofa,  a  heavy  woman  with  her  feet  planted  squarely  on  the  rug.  Her  hair  was  brown.  So  were  her  large,  soft  eyes.  Her  face  was  fleshy,  but  with  a  fine  ruddiness.  She  was  long  married  and  had  three  grown  sons,  but  she  had  recently  stepped  out  of  the  country  of  love-briskly  and  with-  out  a  backward  glance,  as  if  she  had  spent  too  much  time  in  its  steaming  jun-  gles.  She  was  through  with  all  that,  she  had  told  her  wretched  husband.  She  had  put  on  some  perfume  forthe  visit,  and  she  wore  a  thick  necklace  of  false  gold  that  threw  a  brassy  light  up  onto  her  features.  Her  shoes  had  high  heels,  and  her  dress  was  tight,  but  these  lures  were  meant  to  establish  her  social  posi-  tion  and  not  to  catch  the  eyes  of  a  man.  &quot;I  just  thought  you  ought  to  know,&quot;  Laura  said.  &quot;It  isn't  mere  gossip.  She  has  been  intimate  with  just  about  every-  body.  I  mean  the  milkman,  and  that  old  man  who  reads  the  gas  meter.  That  nice  fresh-faced  boy  who  used  to  deliver  the  laundry  lost  his  job  because  of  her.  The  truck  used  to  be  parked  there  for  hours  at  a  time.  'Then  she  began  to  buy  her  groceries  from  Narobi's,  and  one  of  the  delivery  boys  had  quite  a  lot  of  trouble.  Her  husband's  a  nice-looking  man,  and  they  say  he  puts  up  with  it  for  the  sake  of  the  children.  He  adores  the  children.  But  what  I  really  wanted  to  say  is  that  we're  getting  her  out.  They  have  a  twenty-eight-thousand-dollar  mortgage  with  a  repair  clause,  and  Charlie  Peterson  at  the  bank  has  just  told  them  that  they'll  have  to  put  a  new  roof  on  the  house.  Of  course,  they  can't  afford  this,  and  so  Bumps  Trigger  is  going  to  give  them  what  they  paid  for  the  place  and  they'll  have  to  go  somewhere  else.  I  just  thought  you  might  like  to  know.&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,&quot;  Jessica  said.  &quot;Will  you  have  some  more  sherry?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  thank  you.  I  must  get  along.  We're  going  to  the  Wishings'.  Aren't  you?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  we  are,&quot;  Jessica  said.  Laura  put  on  ashort  mink  jacket  and  stepped  out  of  the  house  with  that  grace,  that  circumspection,  that  gentle  and  un-  mistakable  poise  ofa  lady  who  has  said  farewell  to  love.  Then  the  back  doorbell  rang.  The  cook  was  out  with  the  baby,  and  so  Jessica  went  to  the  backdoor  and  let  in  one  of  Mr.  Narobi's  grocery  boys.  She  wondered  if  he  was  the  one  Mrs.  Lock-  hart  had  tried  to  seduce.  He  was  a  slen-  der  young  man  with  brown  hair  and  " b"   blue  eyes  that  shed  their  light  evenly,  as  the  eyes  of  the  young  will,  and  were  so  unlike  the  eyes  of  the  old-those  hag-  gard  lanterns  that  shed  no  light  at  all.  She  would  have  liked  to  ask  him  about  Mrs.  Lockhart,  but  this,  of  course,  was  not  possible.  She  gave  him  a  quarter  tip,  and  he  thanked  her  politely,  and  she  went  upstairs  to  bathe  and  dress  for  the  Wishings'  dance.  The  Wishings'  dance  was  an  annual  affair.  As  Mrs.  Wishing  kept  explain-  ing,  they  gave  it  eachyear  before  the  rugs  were  put  down.  There  was  a  three-  piece  orchestra,  a  fine  dinner  with  glazed  salmon,  beeuf  en  daeube,  a  dark,  flowery  claret,  and  a  bar  for  drinks.  By  quarter  after  ten,  Jessica  felt  bored  and  would  have  asked  'Tom  to  take  her  home,  but  he  was  in  another  room.  Lovely  and  high-spirited,  she  was  sel-  dom  bored.  Watching  the  dancers,  she  thought  of  poor  Mrs.  Lockhart,  who  was  being  forced  out  of  this  society.  On  the  other  hand,  she  knew  how  easy,  how  mistaken  it  was  to  assume  that  the  ex-  ceptions-the  drunkard  and  the  lew  d-  penetrate,  through  their  excesses,  the  carapace  of  immortal  society.  Did  Mrs. Lockhart  know  more  about  mankind  than  she,  Jessica&quot;?  Who  did  have  the  power  of  penetration?  Was  it  the  priest  who  saw  how  their  hands  trembled  when  they  reached  for  the  chalice,  the  doctor  who  had  seen  them  stripped  of  their  clothing,  or  the  psychiatrist  who  had  seen  them  stripped  of  their  obdurate  pride,  and  who  was  now  dancing  with  a  fat  woman  in  a  red  dress?  And  what  was  penetration  worth?&quot;  What  did  it  matter  that  the  drunken  and  unhappy  woman  in  the  corner  dreamed  frequent-  ly  that  she  was  being  chased  through  a  grove  of  trees  by  a  score  of  naked  lyric  poets?  Jessica  was  bored,  and  she  thought  her  dancing  neighbors  were  bored,  too.  Loneliness  was  one  thing,  and  she  knew  herself  how  sweet  it  could  make  lights  and  company  seem,  but  boredom  was  something  else,  and  why,  in  this  most  prosperous  and  equitable  world,  should  everyone  seem  so  bored  and  disappointed?  She  asked  Bumps  Trigger  to  get  her  a  drink,  and  he  brought  her  back  a  glass  of  dark  bour-  bon.  She  felt  a  profound  nostalgia,  a  longing  for  some  emotional  island  or  peninsula  that  she  had  not  even  dis-  cerned  in  her  dreams.  She  seemed  to  know  something  about  its  character-  it  was  not  a  paradise,  but  its  elevating  possibilities  of  emotional  richness  and  freedom  stirred  her.  It  was  the  stupen-  dous  feeling  that  one  could  do  much  better  than  this;  that  the  reality  was  not  Mrs.  Wishing's  dance;  that  the  world  was  not  divided  into  rigid  parliaments  of  good  and  evil  but  was  ruled  by  the  absolute  authority  and  range  of  her  de-  sire.  She  began  to  dance  then,  and  danced  until  three,  when  the  band  stopped  play-  ing.  Her  feelings  had  changed  from  boredom  to  a  ruthless  greed  for  pleasure.  She  did  not  ever  want  the  party  to  stop,  and  stayed  until  dawn.  ON  Sunday  night,  Tom  took  a  plane  to  [REDACTED],  planning  to  be  gone  three  weeks.  On  Monday  night,  alone  in  the  house  with  her  son  and  the  cook,  Jessica  had  a  sentimental  dream.  The  landscape  was  romantic.  It  was  evening,  and  since  there  was  no  trace  anywhere  of  mechanical  things-automobile  tracks  and  the  noise  of  planes-it  seemed  to  her  to  be  evening  in  another  cen-  " b"tury.  The  sun  had  set,  but  a  polished  afterglow  lighted  up  the  sky.  There  was  a  winding  stream  with  alders,  andon  the  farther  banks  the  ruins  of  a  castle.  She  spread  a  white  cloth  on  the  grass  and  set  this  with  long-necked  wine  bottles  and  a  loaf  of  new  bread,  whose  fra-  grance  and  warmth  was  apart  of  the  dream.  Upstream  a  man  was  swimming  naked  in  a  pool.  He  spoke  to  her  in  French,  and  it  was  part  of  the  dream's  lightness  that  it  all  happened  in  another  country,  another  time.  She  saw  the  man  pull  himself  up  onto  the  bank  and  dry  himself  with  a  cloth  while  she  went  on  setting  out  the  things  for  supper.  She  was  waked  from  this  dream  by  the  barking  of  a  dog.  It  was  3  a.m.  She  heard  the  wind.  It  was  changing  its  quarter  and  beginning  to  blow  from  the  northwest.  She  was  about  to  fall  asleep  when  she  heard  the  front  door  come  open.  Sweat  started  at  her  arm-  pits  and  her  young  heart  strained  its  muscles,  although  she  knew  it  was  only  the  wind  that  had  opened  the  door.  Not  long  ago,  a  thief  had  broken  into  a  house  in  the  neighborhood.  In  the  garden,  be-  hind  a  lilac  bush,  a  pile  of  cigarette  ends  had  been  found,  where  he  must  have  waited  patiently  for  hours  for  the  lights  of  the  house  to  be  turned  out.  He  had  made  an  opening  in  a  window  with  a  glass  cutter,  rifled  a  wall  safe  of  cash  and  jewelry,  and  left  by  the  frontdoor.  In  reporting  the  theft,  the  police  had  described  his  movements  in  detail:  He  had  waited  in  the  garden.  He  had  entered  by  a  back  window.  He  had  gone  through  the  kitchen  and  pantry  into  the  dining  room.  But  who  was  he?  Had  he  been  tall  or  short,  heavy  or  slender?  Had  his  heart  throbbedwith  terror  in  the  dark  rooms,  or  had  he  experienced  the  thief's  supreme  sense  of  triumph  over  a  pretentious  and  gullible  society?  He  had  left  traces  of  himself-cigarette  ends,  footprints,  broken  glass,  and  a  rifled  safe-but  he  had  never  been  found,  and  so  he  remained  disembodied  and  faceless.  It  was  the  wind,  she  told  herself;  no  thief  would  have  left  the  door  standing  open.  Now  she  could  feel  the  cold  air  spreading  through  the  house,  rising  up  the  stairs  and  moving  the  curtains  in  the  hall.  She  gotout  of  bed  and  put  on  a  wrapper.  She  turned  on  the  hall  light  and  started  down  the  stairs,  asking  her-  self  what  it  was  she  was  afraid  of  in  the  dark  rooms  below.  She  was  afraid  of  the  dark,  like  a  primitive  or  a  child,  but  why?  What  was  there  about  darkness  that  threat-  ened  her?  She  was  afraid  of  the  dark  as  she  was  afraid  of  the  unknown,  and  what  was  the  un-  known  but  the  force  of  evil,  and  why  should  shebe  afraid  of  this?  She  turned  on  the  lights  one  after  an-  other.  The  rooms  were  empty,  and  the  wind  was  enjoying  the  liberty  of  the  place,  scattering  the  mail  on  the  hall  table  and  peer-  ing  under  the  edge  of  the  rug.  The  wind  was  cold,  and  she  shivered  as  she  closed  and  locked  the  front  door,  but  now  she  was  un-  afraid  and  very  much  her-  self.  In  the  morning  she  had  a  cold.  The  doctor  came  sev-  eral  times  during  that  week,  and  when  she  got  no  better  he  ordered  her  to  go  to  the  hospital.  In  the  middle  of  the  morning,  she  went  upstairs  to  pack.  She  had  been  to  the  hospital  in  recent  years  only  once,  to  have  her  son,  and  then  the  drives  of  pregnancy  had  carried  her  unthink-  ingly  through  her  prepara-  tions.  This  time  she  car-  ried  no  life  within  her;  she  carried,  instead,  an  infec-  tion.  And,  alone  in  her  bedroom,  choosing  a  night-  gown  and  a  hairbrush,  she  " b'felt  as  if  she  had  been  singled  out  to  make  some  mysterious  voyage.  She  was  not  a  sentimental  woman,  and  she  had  no  sad  thoughts  about  parting  from  the  pleasant  room  she  shared  with  her  husband.  She  felt  weary  but  not  sick,  although  there  was  a  cutting  pain  in  her  chest.  A  stranger  watching  her  would  havethought  she  was  insane.  Why  did  she  empty  the  carnations  in-  to  the  wastebasket  and  rinse  out  the  vase?  Why  didshe  count  her  stockings,  lock  her  jewelry  box  and  hide  the  key,  glance  at  her  bank  balance,dust  off  the  mantelpiece,  and  stand  in  the  middle  of  the  room,  looking  as  if  she  was  listening  to  distant  music?  The  foolish  impulse  to  dust  the  mantelpiece  was  irresistible,  but  she  had  no  idea  why  shedid  it,  and  anyhow  it  was  time  to  go.  The  hospital  was  new,  and  conscien-  tious  efforts  had  been  made  to  make  it  a  cheerful  place,  but  her  loveliness  you  might  say  her  elegance-was  put  at  a  disadvantage  by  the  undisguisable  at-  mosphere  of  regimentation,  and  she  looked  terribly  out  of  place.  A  wheel-  chair  was  brought  for  her,  but  she  re-  fused  to  use  it.  She  would  have  looked  crestfallen  and  ridiculous,  she  knew,  with  her  coat  bunched  up  around  her  middle  and  her  purse  in  her  lap.  A  nurse  took  her  upstairs  and  led  her  into  a  pleas-  ant  room,  where  she  was  told  to  undress  and  get  into  bed.  While  she  was  un-  dressing,  someone  brought  her  lunch  on  a  tray.  It  was  a  small  matter,  but  she  found  it  disconcerting  to  be  given  a  chop  and  some  canned  fruit  while  she  was  half  naked  and  before  the  clocks  had  struck  noon.  She  ate  her  lunch  dutifully  and  the  doctor  came  at  two  and  told  her  she  could  count  on  being  in  the  hospital  ten  days  or  two  weeks.  He  would  call  Tom.  She  fell  asleep,  and  woke  at  five  with  a  fever.  The  imagery  of  her  fever  was  similar  to  the  imagery  of  love.  Her  reveries  were  spacious,  and  she  seemed  to  be  promised  the  revelationof  some  truth  that  lay  at  the  center  of  the  labyrinthine  and  palatial  structures  where  she  wan-  dered.  The  fever,  as  it  got  higher,  eased  the  pain  in  her  breast  and  made  her  in-  different  to  the  heavy  beating  of  her  heart.  The  fever  dreams  seemed  like  a  healthy  employment  of  her  imagination  todistract  her  from  thestruggle  that  went  on  in  her  breast.  She  was  standing  at  the  head  of  a  broad  staircase  with  red  walls.  Many  people  were  climbing  the  stairs.  They  had  the  attitudes  of  pil-  grims.  The  climb  was  gruelling  and  lengthy,  and  when  she  reached  the  sum-  mit  she  found  herself  in  a  grove  of  lemon  trees  and  lay  down  on  the  grass  to  rest.  When  she  woke  from  this  dream,  her ' b'nightgown  and  the  bed  linen  were  soaked  with  sweat.  She  rang  for  anurse,  who  changed  them.  She  felt  much  better  when  this  was  done.  She  felt  that  the  fever  had  been  a  crisis  and  that,  passing  safely  through  it,  she  had  triumphed  over  her  illness.  At  nine  the  nurse  gave  her  some  medi-  cine  and  said  good  night.  Some  time  later  she  felt  the  lassitude  of  fever  re-  turning.  She  rang,  but  no  one  came,  and  she  could  not  resist  the  confusion  in  her  mind  as  her  temperature  rose.  The  labored  beating  of  her  heart  sounded  like  a  drum.  She  confused  it  with  a  drum  in  her  mind,  and  saw  a  circle  of  barbaric  dancers.  The  dance  was  long,  rising  to  a  climax,  and  at  the  moment  of  the  cli-  max,  when  she  thought  her  heart  would  burst,  she  woke,  shaking  with  a  fresh  chill  and  wet  with  sweat.  A  nurse  final-  ly  came  and  changed  her  clothing  and  her  linen  again.  She  was  relieved  to  be  dry  and  warm.  The  two  attacks  of  fever  had  weakened  her  but  left  her  with  a  feeling  of  childish  contentment.  She  felt  |  wakeful,  got  out  of  bed,  and  by  support-  ing  herself  on  the  furniture  made  her  way  to  the  window  to  see  the  night.  While  she  watched,  clouds  covered  the  moon.  It  must  have  been  late,  be-  cause  most  of  the  windows  were  dark.  Then  a  window  in  the  wall  at  her  left  was  lighted,  and  she  saw  a  nurse  bring  a  young  woman  and  her  husband  into  a  room  identical  with  the  one  where  she  sat  in  the  dark.  The  young  woman  was  pregnant  but  not  having  labor  pains.  She  undressed  in  the  bathroom  and  got  into  bed  while  her  husband  was  unpack-|  |  ing  her  bag.  The  window,  like  all  the  others,  was  hung  with  a  Venetian  blind,  but  no  one  had  bothered  to  close  the  slats,  and  the  exposure  of  this  intimate|  |  scene,  long  past  midnight,  was  startling.  When  the  unpacking  was  done,  he  unfastened  the  front  of  her  nightgown,  knelt  beside  the  bed,  and  laid  his  head  on  her  breasts.  He  remained  this  way  for  several  minuteswithout  moving.  Then  he  got  up-he  must  have  heard  the  nurse  approach-and  covered  his  wife.  The  nurse  came  in  and  snapped  the  blind  shut.  Jessica  heard  a  night  bird  calling,  and  wonderedwhat  bird  it  was,  what  it  looked  like,  what  it  was  up  to,  what  its  prey  was.  There  was  a  deep  octave  of  thunder,  magnificent  and  homely,  as  if  someone  in  heaven  had  moved  a  chest  of  drawers.  Then  there  was  some  lightning,  distant  and  discolored,  and  a  moment  later  a  shower  of  rain  dressed  the  earth.  The  sound  of  the  rain  seemed  to  Jessica,  with  the  cutting  pain  in  her  breast,  like  the  repeated  attentions  of  a  lover.  It  fell  on  the  flat  roofs  of  the  hos- ' b"pital,  the  lawns,  and  the  leaves  in  the  wood.  The  pain  in  her  chest  seemed  to  spread  and  sharpen  in  proportion  to  her  stubborn  love  of  the  night,  and  she  felt  for  the  first  time  in  her  life  an  unwilling-  ness  to  leave  any  of  this;  a  fear  as  sense-  less  and  powerful  as  her  fear  of  the  dark  when  she  went  down  to  shut  the  door;  a  horror  of  death.  TOM  got  home  the  next  day,  and  came  to  the  hospital  every  eve-  ning.  Facing  her  in  an  armchair,  he  drank  whiskey  and  read  the  paper.  One  night  he  kissed  her,  locked  the  door,  and  began  to  throw  off  his  clothing.  To  her  own  astonishment,  she  began  tocry.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  wasn't  think-  ing.  I  suppose  you  must  still  be  tired.&quot;  He  meant  to  be  gentle,  but  he  was  only  baffled,  and  when  he  sat  down  in  the  chair  again,  with  his  face  half  in  the  light,  she  saw  the  bewilderment  he  al-  ways  suffered  when  he  was  frustrated  in  expressing  the  importunate,  cheerful,  and  vulgar  demands  of  his  body.  At  the  end  of  two  weeks  she  went  home,  although  she  still  felt  unlike  her-  self  and  tired  easily.  'The  drugs  that  cured  her  depressed  her.  She  felt,  like  any  convalescent,  unnaturally  sentient,  as  if  there  was  some  persistent  imbalance  in  her  appetites,  her  loss  of  strength,  giv-  ing  her  an  illusion  of  spirituality-which  did  not,  however,  overwhelm  her  abun-  dant  common  sense.  She  stood,  late  one  afternoon,  at  her  window  watching  the  ring  of  golden  light  that  crowned  the  eastern  hills  at  that  season  and  time  of  day.  It  rested  also  on  the  Babcocks'  lawn,  the  Fillmores'  ranch  house,  the  stone  walls  of  the  church,  the  Thomp-  sons'  chimney-lambent,  and  as  yellow  and  clear  as  strained  honey,  and  really  a  ring,  because,  as  she  watched,  she  saw  at  the  base  of  the  hill  a  clear  demarcation  between  the  yellow  light  and  the  rising  dark,  and  watched  the  band  of  light  lift  past  the  Babcocks'  lawn,  the  Fillmores'  ranch  house,  the  stone  walls  of  the  church,  and  the  Thompsons'  chimney,  up  into  thin  air.  The  street  was  empty,  or  nearly  so.  Everyone  in  Proxmire  Manor  had  two  cars  and  no  one  walked,  with  the  exception  of  old  Mr.  Cosden,  who  belonged  to  the  generation  that  took  constitutionals.  Up  the  street  he  came,  his  blue  eyes  fixed  on  the  last  piece  of  yellow  light  that  touched  the  church  steeple,  as  if  exclaiming  to  him-  self,  &quot;How  wonderful,  how  wonderful  it  is!&quot;  He  passed,  and  then  a  much  stranger  figure  took  her  attention-a  tall  man  with  unusually  long  arms.  He  was  a  stray,  she  decided;  he  must  live  in  the  slums  of  Parthenia.  In  his  right  " b"hand  he  carried  an  umbrella  and  a  pair  of  rubbers.  He  was  terribly  stooped,  and  to  see  where  he  was  going  had  to  crane  his  neck  forward  and  upward  like  an  adder.  He  had  not  bent  his  back  over  a  whetstone  or  a  workbench  or  under  the  weight  of  a  brick  hod  or  at  any  other  honest  task.  It  was  the  stoop  of  weak-  mindedness,  abnegation,  and  bewilder-  ment.  He  had  never  had  any  occasion  to  straighten  his  back  in  self-esteem.  Stooped  with  shyness  as  a  child,  stooped  with  loneliness  as  a  youth,  stooped  now  under  an  invisible  burden  of  social  dis-  regard,  he  walked  with  his  long  arms  reaching  nearly  to  his  knees.  His  wide,  thin  mouth  was  set  in  a  silly  half  grin,  meaningless  and  sad,  but  the  best  face  he  had  been  able  to  hit  on.  As  he  ap-  proached  the  house,  the  beating  of  her  heart  seemed  to  correspond  to  his  foot-  steps,  the  cutting  pain  returned  to  her  breast,  and  she  felt  the  return  of  her  fear  of  darkness,  evil,  and  death.  Carry-  ing  his  umbrella  and  rubbers,  although  there  was  not  a  cloud  in  the  sky,  he  duck-footed  out  of  sight.  A  few  nights  later,  Jessica  was  driv-  ing  back  from  the  village  of  Parthenia.  The  street  was  lighted  erratically  by  the  few  stores  that  hung  on  at  the  edge  of  town-general  stores  smelling  of  stale  bread  and  bitter  oranges,  where  those  in  the  neighborhood  who  were  too  lazy,  too  tired,  ortoo  infirm  to  go  to  the  palatial  shopping  centers  bought  their  coffee  rings,  beer,  and  hamburgers.  The  darkness  of  the  street  was  sparsely,  ir-  regularly  checkered  with  light,  and  she  saw  the  tall  man  crossing  one  of  these  apertures,  throwing  a  long,  crooked  shadow  ahead  of  him  on  the  paving.  He  held  a  heavy  bag  of  groceries  in  each  arm.  He  was  no  more  stooped  than  be-  fore-the  curvature  of  his  spine  seemed  set-but  the  bags  must  be  heavy,  and  she  pitied  him,  She  drove  on,  evoking  defensively  the  worlds  of  difference  that  lay  between  them  and  the  chance  that  he  would  have  misunderstood  her  kind-  ness  had  she  offered  to  give  him  a  ride.  But  when  she  had  completed  her  de-  fense  it  seemed  so  shallow,  idle,  and  selfish  that  she  turned  the  car  around  in  '  fher  own  driveway  and  drove  back  to-  ward  Parthenia.  Her  best  instinct  was  to  help  him-to  make  some  peace  between  his  figure  and  her  irrational  fear  of  death-and  why  should  she  deny  herself  this?  He  would  have  passed  the  lighted  stores  by  this  time,  she  decided,  and  she  drove  slowly  up  the  dark  street,  looking  for  his  stooped  figure.  When  she  saw  him,  she  turned  the  car  aroundand  stopped.  &quot;Can  I  help  you?&quot;  sheasked.  &quot;Can  I  give  you  a  ride?  You  seem  to  " b"have  so  much  to  carry.&quot;  He  turned  and  looked  at  the  beautiful  stranger  without  quite  relaxing  his  half  grin,  and  she  won-  dered  if  he  wasn't  a  deaf-mute  as  well  as  weak-minded.  Then  a  look  of  distrust  touched  the  grin.  There  was  no  ques-  tion  about  what  he  was  feeling.  She  was  from  that  world  that  had  gulled  him,  pelted  him  with  snowballs,  and  rifled  his  lunchbox.  His  mother  had  told  him  to  beware  of  strangers  and  here  was  a  beautiful  stranger,  perhaps  the  most  dangerous  of  all.  &quot;No!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;No,  no!&quot;  She  drove  on,  wondering  what  was  at  the  bottom  of  her  impulse;  won-  dering,  in  the  end,  why  she  should  scrutinize  a  simple  attempt  at  kindness.  ON  Thursday  the  maid  was  off,  and  Jessica  took  care  of  the  baby.  He  slept  after  lunch,  and  she  woke  him  at  four,  lifting  him  out  of  his  crib  and  letting  the  blankets  fall.  They  were  alone.  The  house  was  quiet.  She  carried  him  into  the  kitchen,  put  him  in  his  high  chair,  and  opened  a  can  of  figs.  Sleepy  and  docile  and  pale,  he  followed  her  with  his  eyes,  and  smiled  sweetly  when  their  eyes  met.  His  shift  was  stained  and  wet,  and  she  wore  a  wrapper.  She  sat  by  him  at  the  table,  with  her  face  only  a  few  inches  from  his,  and  they  spooned  the  figs  out  of  the  can.  He  shuddered  now  and  then  with  what  seemed  to  be  pleasure.  'The  quiet  house,  the  still  kitchen,  the  pale  and  docile  boy  in  his  stained  shift,  her  round  white  arms  on  the  table,  the  comfortable  slovenliness  of  eating  from  a  can  were  all  part  of  an  intimacy  so  intense  and  yet  so  tran-  quil  that  it  seemed  to  her  as  if  she  and  the  baby  were  the  same  flesh  and  blood,  subjects  of  the  same  heart,  all  mingled  and  at  ease.  What  a  comfort,  she  thought,  is  one's  skin.  .  .  .  But  it  was  time  then  to  change  the  boy,  time  to  dress  herself,  time  to  take  up  cheerfully  the  other  side  of  her  life.  Carrying  the  child  through  the  living  room,  she  saw,  out  of  the  window,  the  stooped  figure  with  his  rubbers  and  umbrella.  A  wind  was  blowing,  and  he  moved  indifferently  through  a  diagonal  fall  of  yellow  leaves,  craning  his  neck  like  an  adder,  his  back  bent  under  its  impossi-  ble  burden.  She  held  the  baby's  head  against  her  breast,  foolishly,  instincetive-  ly,  as  if  to  protect  his  eyes  from  some  communicable  evil.  She  turned  away  from  the  window,  and  shortly  after-  ward  there  was  a  loud  pounding  on  the  back  door.  How  had  he  found  where  she  lived,  and  what  did  he  want?  He  might  have  recognized  her  car  in  the  driveway;  he  might  have  asked  who  she  was,  the  village  was  that  small.  He  had " b" not  come  to  thank  her  for  her  attempted  kindness.  She  felt  sure  of  that.  He  had  come-in  his  foolishness-to  accuse  her  of  something.  Was  he  dangerous?  Was  there  any  danger  left  in  Proxmire  Man-  or?  She  put  the  boy  down  and  went  toward  the  back  door,  summoning  her  self-respect.  When  she  opened  it,  there  was  Mr.  Narobi's  good-looking  grocery  boy.  He  made  it  all  seem  laughable-came  in  beaming  and  with  a  kind  of  radiance  that  seemed  to  liberate  her  from  this  absurd  chain  of  anxieties.  &quot;'You're  new?&quot;  she  asked.  (\xe2\x80\x98ch'))  &quot;I  don't  know  your  name.&quot;  &quot;Emile.  It's  a  funny  name.  My  fa-  ther  was  French.&quot;  &quot;Did  he  come  from  France?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  [REDACTED].  French  Canadi-  an.&quot;  &quot;What  does  he  do?&quot;  &quot;When  people  used  to  ask  me  that,  I  used  to  say,  'He  plays  the  harp.  He's  dead.  He  died  when  I  was  little.  My  mother  works  at  the  florist's-Bar-  num's-on  Green  Street.  Maybe  you  know  her?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  I  do.  Would  you  like  a  beer?&quot;  &quot;Sure.  Why  not?  It's  my  last  stop.&quot;  She  asked  if  he  wanted  something  to  eat,  and  got  him  some  crackers  and  cheese.  &quot;I'm  always  hungry,&quot;  he  said.  She  brought  the  baby  into  the  kitchen  and  they  all  three  satat  the  table  while  he  ate  and  drank.  Stuffing  his  mouth  with  cheese,  he  seemed  to  be  a  child.  His  gaze  was  clear  and  disarming.  She  couldn't  meet  it  without  a  stir  in  her  blood.  And  was  this  sluttishness?  Was  she  worse  than  Mrs.  Lockhart?  Would " b"she  be  dragged  figuratively  out  of  Prox-  mire  Manor  at  the  tail  of  a  cart?  She  didn't  care.  &quot;Nobody  ever  gave  me  a  beer  be-  fore,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'They  give  me  Cokes,  sometimes.  I  guess  they  don'tthink  I'm  old  enough.  But  I  drink.  Martinis,  whiskey,  everything.&quot;  &quot;How  oldare  you?&quot;  &quot;Nineteen.  Now  I  have  to  go.&quot;  &quot;Please  don't  go,&quot;  she  said.  He  stood  at  the  table,  covering  her  with  his  wide  gaze,  and  she  wondered  what  would  happen  if  she  reached  out  to  him.  Would  he  run  out  of  the  kitchen?  Would  he  shout,  &quot;Unhand  me!&quot;?  He  seemed  ripe;  he  seemed  ready  for  the  picking;  and  yet  there  was  something  else  in  the  corner  of  his  eyes-reserve,  wariness.  He  perhaps  had  a  vision  of  something  better,  and  if  he  had,  she  would  encourage  him  with  all  her  heart.  Go  and  love  the  drum  majorette,  the  girl  next  door.  &quot;Oh,  I'd  like  to  stay,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  nice  here.  But  it's  Thursday,  and  I  have  to  take  my  mother  shopping.  Thank  you  very  much.&quot;  HE  Moonlite  Drive-In  was  di-  vided  into  three  magnificent  parts.  There  was  the  golf  links,  the  roller  rink,  and  the  vast  amphitheatre  itself,  where  thousands  of  darkened  cars  were  ar-  ranged  in  the  form  of  an  ancient  arena,  spread  out  beneath  the  tree  of  night.  Above  the  deep  thunder  from  the  rink  and  the  noise  from  the  screen,  you  could  hear-high  in  the  air  and  so  like  the  sea  that  a  blind  man  would  be  deceived-  the  noise  of  traffic  on  the  great  Northern  Expressway  that  flows  southward  from  Montreal  to  the  Shenandoah,  engorg-  ing  in  its  cloverleafs  and  brilliantly  en-  gineered  gradings  the  green  playing  fields,  rose  gardens,  barns,  farms,  mead-  ows,  trout  streams,  forests,  homesteads,  and  churches  of  a  golden  past.  The  population  of  this  highway  gathered  for  their  meals  in  a  string  of  identical  res-  taurants,  where  the  murals,  the  urinals,  the  menus,  and  the  machines  for  vend-  ing  sacred  medals  were  uniform.  It  was  some  touching  part  of  the  autumn  night  and  the  hazards  of  the  road  that  so  many  of  these  travellers  pleaded  for  the  special  protection  of  gentle  St.  Christopher  and  the  blessings  of  the  Holy  Virgin.  An  exit  (Exit  307)  curved  away  from  the  Northern  Expressway  down  toward  the  Moonlite,  and  here  was  everything  a  man  might  need:  the  means  for  swift  travel,  food,  exercise,  skill  (the  golf  links),  and  in  the  dark  cars  of  the  amphitheatre  a  place  to  per-  form  the  rites  of  spring-or,  in  this  case,  " b"the  rites  of  autumn.  It  was  an  autumn  night,  and  the  air  was  full  of  pollen  and  decay.  Emile  sat  in  the  back  seat  with  Louise  Mecker.  Charlie  Putney,  his  best  friend,  was  in  the  front  seat  with with  Doris  Pluzinski.  They  were  all  drink-  sparkling  clusters  of  ing  whiskey  out  of  paper  cups,  and  they   were  all  in  various  stages  of  undress.  On   the  screen  a  woman  exclaimed,  &quot;I  want   to  put  on  innocence,  like  a  bright,  new dress.  I  want  to  feel  clean  again!&quot;  Then   she  slammed  a  door.  Emile  was  proud  of  his  skin,  but  the  mention  of  cleanliness  aroused  his  doubts  and  misgivings.  He  blushed.  These  parties  were  a  commonplace  of  his  generation,  and  if  he  hadn't  partici-  pated  in  them  he  would  have  got  him-  self  a  reputation  as  a  prude  and  afaggot.  Four  boys  inhis  high-school  class  had  been  arrested  for  selling  pornography  and  heroin.  They  had  approached  him,  but  the  thought  of  using  narcotics  and  obscene  pictures  disgusted  him.  His  sit-  ting  undressed  in  the  back  seat  of  acar  might  be  accounted  for  by  the  fact  that  the  music  he  danced  to  and  the  movies  he  watched  dealt  less  and  less  with  the  heart  and  more  and  more  with  overt  sexuality,  as  if  the  rose  gardens  and  play-  ing  fields  buried  under  the   way  were  enjoying  a  revenge.  W  hat  is  the  grade-crossing  tender  standing  in  the  autumn  sun  thinking  of?  Why  has  the  postmaster  such  a  dreamy  look?  Why  does  the  judge  presiding  at  Gen-  eral  Sessions  seem  so  restless?  Why  does  the  cabdriver  frown  and  sigh?  W  hat  is  the  shoeshine  boy  thinking  of  as  he  stares  out  into  the  rain?  What  darkens  the  mind  and  torments  the  flesh  of  the  truck  driver  on  the  Expressway?  W  hat  arethe  thoughts  of  the  old  gardener  dusting  his  roses,  the  garage  mechanic  on  his  back  under  the  Chevrolet,  the  idle  lawyer,  the  sailor  waiting  for  the  fog  to  lift,  the  drunkard,  the  soldier?  The  times  were  venereal,  and  Emile  was  a  child  of  the  times.  Louise  Mecker  was  a  tomato,  but  her  looseness  seemed  only  to  be  one  as-  pect  of  a  cheerful  disposition.  She  did  what  she  was  expected  to  do  to  get  along,  and  this  was  part  of  it.  And  yet  in  her  readiness  she  sometimes  seemed  Prized  baby  alligator-  to  debase  and  ridicule  the  seat  of  desire,  toward  which  he  still  preserved  some  y  vague  and  tender  feelings.  When  the  li-  for  their  beautiful  markings,  matches  lac  under  his  bedroom  window  bloomed  /  in  the  spring  and  he  could  smell  its  fra-  grance  as  he  lay  in  bed,  some  feeling,  as  At  all  Lord  &amp;  Taylor  stores  strong  as  ambition  but  without  a  name,  moved  him.  Oh,  I  want-I  want  to  do  so  well,  he  thought,  sitting  naked  at  the  Moonlite.  But  what  did  he  want  to  do?  Be  a  jet  pilot?  Discover  a  water-" b"fall  in  Africa?  Manage  a  supermarket?  Whatever  it  was,  he  wanted  something  that  would  correspond  to  his  sense  that  life  was  imposing;  something  that  would  confirm  his  feeling  that,  as  he  stood  at  the  window  of  Narobi's  grocery  store  watching  the  men  and  women  on  the  sidewalk  and  the  stream-of  clouds  in  the  sky,  the  procession  he  saw  was  a  ma-  jestic  one.  He  thought  of  Jessica,  who  by  giv-  ing  him  a  beer  had  penetrated  into  his  considerations.  In  the  last  six  or  eight  months,  he  had  been  bewildered  by  the  sudden  interest  men  and  women  took  in  his  company.  They  seemed  to  want  something  from  him  and  to  want  it  ardently,  and  although  he  was  not  an  innocent  or  a  fool,  he  was  genuinely  un-  certain  about  what  it  was  they  wanted.  His  own  desires  were  violent.  While  he  was  shaving  in  the  morning,  a  seizure  of  sexual  need  doubled  him  up  with  pain  and  made  him  groan.  &quot;Cut  yourself,  dear?&quot;  his  mother  asked.  And  yet  he  was  a  young  man  who  could  be  dissuad-  ed  from  the  most  violent  sexual  excite-  ment  by  the  sight  ofa  pear  tree  bloom-  ing  in  a  back  yard.  Louise  satisfied  him,  but  Mrs.  Coliver  excited  a  much  broad-  er  realm  of  desire.  He  thought  of  her-  oddly  enough-as  a  tragic  figure,  frail,  lonely,  and  misunderstood.  Her  hus-  band,  whoever  he  was,  would  be  obtuse,  stupid,  and  clumsy.  Weren't  all  men  his  age?  She  was  a  fair  prisoner  in  a  tower.  Halfway  through  the  feature,  they  got  dressed  and,  with  the  cutout  open  and  the  radio  blaring  &quot;'Take  It  Easy,  Greasy,&quot;  roared  out  ofthe  Moonlite  onto  the  Expressway,  jeopardizing  their  lives  and  the  lives  in  every  car  they  passed  (men,  women,  and  children  in  arms),  but  gentle  St.  Christopher  or  the  mercies  of  the  Holy  Virgin  spared  them  and  got  Emile  safely  home.  He  climbed  the  stairs,  kissed  his  mother  good  night-she  was  studying  an  article  in  Reader's  Digest  about  the  pancreas  and  went  to  bed.  Lying  in  bed,  he  de-  cided,  quite  innocently,  that  he  was  tired  of  tomatoes,  movies,  and  paper  cups,  and  that  he  would  become  Mrs.  Coliver's  lover.  E  went  to  the  house  three  or  four  times  a  week.  Jessica  was  usually  alone  in  the  late  afternoon,  and  he  timed  his  visits.  He  wondered  if  he  should  bring  her  a  present-a  box  of  candy  or  something  like  that.  Sometimes  she  seemed  to  be  waiting  for  him.  No  one  had  ever  been  so  attentive.  She  seemed  interested  in  all  the  facts  of  his  life-  that  his  father  had  been  a  surveyor,  that  Emile  drove  a  second-hand  Buick,  that  he  had  done  well  at  school.  She  usually  " b"gave  him  a  beer  and  sat  with  him  in  the  kitchen.  Her  company  excited  him  .  It  made  him  fe  el  that  some  of  her  worldli-  ness,  some  of  her  finesse,  would  rub  o  ff  on  him  and  ge  t  hi  m  out  of  the  grocery  busine  ss.  Suddenly,  one  afternoon,  she  said  qu  ite  shyly,  &quot;You  know,  you're  beautiful.&quot;  He  wondered  if  she  hadn't  lost  her  marbles.  He  had  heard  that  women  somet  imes  did.  Had  he  been  wasting  his  time  ?  He  didn't  want  to  be  the  lover  of  a  woman  who  had  lost  her  marbles.  He  knew  he  wasn't  beautiful.  If  he  was  beautiful,  someone  would  have  said  so  before.  .  .  .  A  nd  if  he  Aad  been  beauti  -  ful,  and  had  been  convinced  o  f  t  his,  he  would  have  concealed  it-not  throu  g  h  modesty  but  through  an  in  stinc  t  of  self-  preservation.  He  sensed  that  uncom-  mon  beauty,  like  any  other  u  ncommon  gift,  would  entail  responsibilities,  and  he  would  have  wanted  to  evade  them.  At  this  level  he  resisted  her  praise  flatly.  But  at  ano  ther  level  ,  and  one  much  more  wary,  appeared  her  right  to  say  what  she  felt.  Was  it  possible  that  p  eople  could  love  and  praise  one  another  openly  wit  hout  having  lost  their  marbles?  This  was  what  he  had  wanted,  this  was  what  he  had  planned  ,  but  it  was  all  i  n  the  wrong  te  rms.  &quot;Oh,  I'm  not  beautiful,&quot;  he  said  earne  stly,  and  finished  his  beer.  &quot;Now  I  have  to  g  et  ba  ck  to  the  store.&quot;  Jessica  went  shoppin  g  a  few  days  later  .  She  took  a  midm  orning  train  and  sat  with  her  neighbor,  Gertrude  Bend  er.  Gertrude  had  silver-gilt  hair,  skinned  back  in  a  chignon  wit  h  s  uch  preciseness  and  skill  that  Jessica  won-  dered  how  it  had  been  accomplished.  She  had  matching  silver-gilt  f  urs,  and  rattled  six  gold  bracelets.  She  was  a  pretty,  shall  ow  woman  who  wielded  the  inarg  uable  powers  of  great  wealth  and  who  se  voic  e  was  shrill.  She  talked  about  her  daug  hter  Betty.  &quot;She's  worried  about  her  sc  hoolwork,  but  I  tell  her,  'Betty,&quot;  I  te  ll  her,  'don't  you  worry  about  your  s  choolwo  r  k.  Do  you  think  what  I  lea  rned  in  school  got  me  where  I  am  today?  Dev  elop  a  good  figure  and  l  earn  the  forks  .  That's  all  that  mat-  ters.&quot;  &quot;  In  the  s  eat  in  front  of  Jessica  there  was  a  n  old  lady  whose  head  was  bowed  under  the  weight  of  a  hat  covered  with  cloth  roses.  A  family  o  ccupi  e  d  the  fac-  ing  seats  across  the  aisle-a  mo  ther  and  three  childre  n.  They  were  poor.  Their  cloth  i  ng  was  cheap  and  threadbare,  and  the  woman's  face  was  worn.  One  of  her  children  was  sick  and  lay  across  her  lap,  sucking  his  thumb.  He  was  two  or  three  years  old,  but  it  was  hard  to  guess  his  age,  he  was  so  pale  and" b"thin.  There  were  sores  on  his  forehead  and  sores  on  his  thin  legs.  The  lines  around  his  mouth  were  as  deep  as  those  on  the  face  of  a  man.  He  seemed  sick  and  miserable,  but  stubborn  and  ob-  durate  at  the  same  time,  as  if  he  held  in  his  fist  a  promise  of  something  bewil-  dering  and  festive  that  he  would  not  re-  linquish  in  spite  of  his  sickness  and  the  strangeness  of  the  train.  He  sucked  his  thumb  noisily  and  would  not  move  from  his  position  in  the  midst  of  life.  His  moth-  er  bent  over  him  as  she  must  have  done  when  she  nursed  him,  and  sang  him  a  lullaby  as  they  passed  Parthenia,  Gates-  bridge,  Tuxon  Valley,  and  Tokinsville.  Gertrude  said,  &quot;I  don't  understand  people  who  lose  their  looks  when  they  don't  have  to.  I  mean  what's  the  point  of  going  through  life  looking  like  an  old  laundry  bag?  Now,  take  Molly  Single-  ton.  She  goes  up  to  the  Club  on  Sat-  urday  nights  wearing  those  thick  eye-  glasses  and  an  ugly  dress  and  wonders  why  she  doesn't  have  a  good  time.  There's  no  point  in  going  to  parties  if  you're  going  to  depress  everyone.  I'm  no  girl  and  I  know  it,  but  I  still  have  all  the  partners  I  want  and  I  like  to  give  the  boys  a  thrill.  I  like  to  see  them  perk  up.  It's  amazing  what  you  can  do.  Why,  one  of  the  grocery  boys  wrote  me  a  love  letter.  I  wouldn't  tell  Eddie-  I  wouldn't  tell  anyone-because  the  poor  kid  might  lose  his  job,  but  what's  the  sense  of  living  if  you  don't  generate  a  little  excitement  once  in  a  while?&quot;  Jessica  was  jealous.  'That  the  rush  of  feeling  shesuffered  was  plainly  ridic-  ulous  didn't  diminish  its  power.She  seemed,  unknowingly,  to  have  con-  vinced  herself  of  the  fact  that  Emile  worshipped  her,  and  the  possibility  that  he  worshipped  them  all,  that  she  might  be  at  the  bottom  of  his  list  of  attractions,  was  ashock.  It  was  all  absurd,  and  it  was  all  true.  She  seemed  to  have  re-  arranged  all  of  her  values  around  his  image,  to  have  come  unthinkingly  to  de-  pendupon  his  admiration.  The  fact  that  she  cared  at  all  about  his  philandering  was  painfully  humiliating.  She  left  New  York  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon  and  called  Narobi's  when  she  got  back.  She  ordered  aloafof  bread,  garlic  salt,  endives-nothing  she  needed.  He  was  there  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  later.  &quot;Emile?&quot;  she  asked.  (\xe2\x80\x98YCS.,\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Did  you  ever  write  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Bender?&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  who?&quot;  &quot;Mrs.  Bender.&quot;  &quot;I  haven't  written  a  letter  since  last  Christmas.  My  uncle  sent  me  ten  dol-  " b"lars  and  I  wrote  a  letter  and  thanked  him.&quot;  &quot;Emile,  you  must  know  who  Mrs.  Bender  is.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don't.  She  probably  buys  her  groceries  somewhere  else.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  telling  the  truth,  Emile?&quot;  &quot;Sure.&quot;  I  &quot;Oh,  I'm  making  such  a  damn  fool  of  myself,&quot;  she  said,  and  began  to  cry.  &quot;Don't  be  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;Please  don't!  I  like  you  very  much,  I  think  you're  fascinating,  but  I  wouldn't  want  to  make  you  sad.&quot;  &quot;Emile,  I'm  going  to  Nantucket  on  Saturday,  to  close  up  the  house  there.  Would  you  like  to  come  with  me?&quot;  &quot;Sure,  I'd  love  to.&quot;  He  didn't,  in  the  end,  have  to  do  anything.  WHEN  he  had  gone,  she  was  alone  in  the  dark  house.  She  had  done  what  she  wanted;  she  had  acted  on  her  deepest  instincts,  and  who  would  be  harmed?  ...  Who  wouldn't?  Her  hus-  band,  her  son,  her  friends,  her  neigh-  bors,  even  her  old  Uncle  Lawrence,  dying  in  Palo  Alto,  would  suffer,  but  the  person  who  seemed  most  vulner-  able  to  her  then  was  Emile's  mother.  She  had  never  seen  Mrs.  Cranmer.  She  could  not  imagine  what  the  woman  looked  like.  She  got  into  the  car  and  drove  to  the  florist  shop  on  Green  Street.  There  was  a  bell  attached  to  the  door  and,  inside,  the  smell  of  flowers.  Mrs.  Cranmer  came  out  of  the  back,  taking  a  pencil  from  her  bleached  hair  and  smiling  like  a  child.  Emile's  mother  was  one  of  those  widows  who  keep  themselves  in  a  con-  stant  state  of  readiness  for  some  call,  some  invitation,  some  meeting  that  will     " b"never  take  place,  because  the  lover  is  dead.  You  find  them  answering  the  telephone  in  the  back-street  cabstands  of  little  towns,  their  hair  freshly  bleached,  their  nails  painted,  their  high-arched  shoes  ready  for  dancing  with  someone  who  cannot  come.  They  sell  night-  gowns,  flowers,  stationery,  and  candy,  and  the  lowest  in  their  ranks  sell  movie  tickets.  'They  are  always  in  a  state  of  readiness,  they  have  all  known  the  love  of  a  good  man,  and  it  is  in  his  memory  that  they  struggle  through  the  snow  and  the  mud  in  high  heels.  Mrs.  Cranmer's  face  was  painted  brightly,  her  dress  was  silk,  and  there  were  bows  on  her  high-  heeled  pumps.  She  was  a  small,  plump  woman,  with  her  waist  cinctured  in  sternly,  like  a  cushion  with  a  noose  around  it.  She  looked  like  a  figure  that  had  stepped  from  a  comic  book,  al-  though  there  was  nothing  comic  about  her.  Jessica  ordered  some  roses,  and  Mrs.  Cranmer  passed  the  order  on  to  some-  one  in  the  back  and  said,  '&quot;'They'll  be  ready  in  a  minute.&quot;  The  doorbell  rang  and  another  customer  came  in-a  thick-  featured  man  with  a  white  plastic  button  in  his  right  ear  that  was  connected  by  an  electrical  cord  to  his  vest.  He  spoke  heavily.  &quot;I  want  something  for  a  de-  if  ceased,&quot;  he  said.  Mrs.  Cranmer  was  diplomatic,  and  through  a  series  of  deli-  cate  indirections  tried  to  discover  his  re-  lationship  to  the  corpse.  Would  he  like  a  blanket  of  flowers,  at  perhaps  forty  dollars,  or  something  a  little  less  expen-  sive?  He  gave  his  information  readily,  but  only  in  reply  to  direct  questions.  The  corpse  was  his  sister.  Her  children  were  scattered.  &quot;I  guess  I'm  the  closest  she  had  left,&quot;  he  said  confusedly,  and  Jes-  sica,  waiting  for  her  roses,  felt  apre-  monition  of  death.  She  must  die-she  must  be  the  subject  of  some  such  discus-  sion  in  a  flower  shop,  and  close  her  eyes  forever  on  a  world  that  distracted  her  with  its  beauty.  The  image,  hackneyed  and  poignant,  that  came  to  her  was  of  life  as  a  diversion,  a  festival  from  which  she  was  summoned  by  the  secret  police  of  extinction,  when  the  dancing  and  the  music  were  at  their  best.  I  do  not  want  to  leave,  she  thought.  I  do  not  ever  want  to  leave.  Mrs.  Cranmer  gave  her  the  roses,  and  she  went  home.  Emile  went  to  the  airport  alone  on  Saturday  morning.  Jessica  had  bought  the  plane  tickets  and  made  all  the  arrangements,  and  she  had  asked  him  not  to  speak  to  her  on  the  plane.  He  wore  new  shoes  and  a  new  pair  of  pants,  and  walked  with  a  bounce  in  order  to  feel  the  thickness  of  the  new  soles  and  to  feel  the  nice  play  of  muscle  as  it  worked  up  his  legs  and  back  into  his     " b"shoulders,  He  had  neverbeen  on  a  plane  before,  and  he  was  disappointed  to  find  that  it  was  not  assleekas  the  planes  in  magazine  advertisements,  and  that  the  fuselage  was  dented  and  stained  with  smoke.  He  got  a  window  seat  and  watched  the  activity  on  the  field,  feel-  ing  that  as  soon  as  the  plane  was  air-  borne  he  would  begin  a  new  life  of  motion,  comfort,  and  freedom.  Hadn't  he  always  dreamed  of  going  here  and  there  and  making  friends  in  different  places  and  being  easily  accepted  as  a  man  of  strength  and  intelligence  and  not  a  grocery  boy  without  a  future  ora  des-  tiny,  and  had  he  ever  doubted  that  his  dreams  would  come  true?  Jessica  was  the  last  but  one  to  get  on.  She  was  wear-  ing  a  fur  coat,  and  the  dark  skins  made  her  appear  to  him  like  a  visitor  from  an-  other  continent,  where  everything  was  beautiful,  orderly,  and  luxurious.  She  didn't  look  in  his  direction.  A  drunken  sailor  took  the  seat  beside  Emile  and  fell  asleep.  Emile  was  disappointed.  Watching  the  planes  that  passed  over  Parthenia  and  Proxmire  Manor,  he  had  assumed  that  the  people  who  travelled  in  them  were  of  a  high  order.  In  a  little  whilethey  were  off  the  ground.  It  was  charming.  At  the  distanceof  a  few  hundred  feet,  all  the  confused  and  mistaken  works  of  man  seemed  orderly  and  charming,  and  the  higher  theygot  above  the  roofs  of  Long  Island  the  more  it  seemed  to  him  that  the  lives  lived  there  must  be  full  of  love  and  happiness,  and  he  smiled  down  broadly  at  theearth  and  its  population.  The  sensation  he  had  looked  forward  to,  of  being  airborne,  he  did  not  have;  flying  was  not  what  he  had  anticipated,  and  it  seemed  to  him  that  the  engines  of  the  plane  were  struggling  to  resist  gravity  and  hold  them  in  their  place  among  the  thin  clouds.  The  sea  they  were  crossing  was  dark  and  color-  less,  and  as  they  lost  sight  of  landhe  felt  in  himself  a  corresponding  sense  of  loss,  as  if  at  this  point  some  sustaining  bond  with  his  green  past  had  been  cut.  The  island,  when  he  saw  it  below  them  on  the  sea,  with  a  cuff  of  foam  on  its  northeast  edge,  looked  so  small  and  flat  that  he  wondered  why  anyone  should  want  to  go  there.  When  he  left  the  plane,she  was  waiting  for  him  by  the  steps,  and  they  walked  through  the  air-  port  and  got  a  cab.  She  told  the  driver,  &quot;First  I  want  to  go  into  the  village  and  get  some  groceries,  and  then  I  want  to  go  to  Madamquid.&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  want  to  go  to  Madamquid  for?&quot;  the  driver  asked.  ''There's  nobody  out  there  now.&quot;  &quot;Ihave  a  cottage  out  there,&quot;  she  said.  They  drove  across  a  bleak  landscape,  but  one  so  closely  associated  with  her  " b"youth  and  her  happiness  that  the  bleak-  ness  escaped  her.  In  the  village,  they  stopped  at  the  grocery  store  where  she  had  always  traded,  and  she  asked  Emile  to  wait  outside.  When  she  had  bought  the  groceries,  a  boy  wearing  the  white  apron  and  bent  in  exactly  the  same  atti-  tude  as  Emile  was  when  she  first  saw  him  carried  them  out  to  the  taxi.  She  gave  him  a  tip  and  looked  up  and  down  the  street  for  Emile.  He  was  standing  in  front  of  the  drugstore  with  some  other  young  men  his  age.  Her  courage  left  her  then.  The  so-  ciety  of  the  bored  and  the  disappointed,  from  which  she  had  hoped  to  escape,  seemed  battlemented,  implacable,  and  splendid-a  creation  useful  to  concert  halls,  hospitals,  bridges,  and  courthouses,  and  one  that  she  was  not  fit  to  enter.  She  had  wanted  to  bring  into  her  life  the  freshness  of  a  journey  and  had  achieved  nothing  but  a  galling  sense  of  moral  shabbiness.  &quot;You  want  me  to  get  your  boy  friend?&quot;  the  cabdriver  asked.  &quot;He's  not  my  boy  friend,&quot;  Jessica  said.  &quot;He's  just  come  out  to  help  me  move  some  things.&quot;  Emile  saw  her  then,  and  crossed  the  street,  and  they  started  for  Madamquid.  She  felt  so  desperate  that  she  took  his  hand,  not  expecting  him  to  support  her,  but  he  turned  to  her  with  wonderful  largess,  a  smile  so  strong  and  tender  that  she  felt  the  blood  pour  back  into  her  heart.  They  were  heading  out  to  the  point,  where  there  was  nothing  to  see  but  the  cream-colored  dunes,  with  their  scalp  locks  of  knife  grass,  and  the  dark  autumn  ocean.  He  was  perplexed  by  this.  One  of  the  several  divisions  in  his  world  was  that  group  of  people  who  went  away  for  the  summer-who  closed  their  houses  in  June  and  bought  no  more  groceries  until  September-and,  never  having  enjoyed  any  such  migratory  privileges  himself,  he  had  imagined  the  places  where  they  went  as  having  golden  sands  and  purple  seas,  the  houses  palatial  and  pink-walled,  with  patios  and  swim-  ming  pools,  like  the  houses  he  saw  in  the  movies.  'There  was  nothing  like  that  here,  and  he  couldn't  believe  that  even  in  the  long,  hot  days  of  summer  this  place  would  look  less  of  a  wilderness.  Were  there  fleets  of  sailboats,  deck  chairs,  and  beach  umbrellas?  There  was  no  trace  of  summery  furniture  now.  She  pointed  out  the  house  to  him  and  he  saw  a  big,  shingled  building  on  a  bluff.  He  could  see  that  it  was  big-it  was  big,  all  right-but  if  you  were  going  to  build  a  summer  house,  why  not  build  some-  thing  neat  and  compact,  something  that  would  be  niceto  look  at?  But  maybe  he  was  wrong,  maybe  there  was  something " b"to  be  learned  here;  she  seemed  so  pleased  at  the  sight  of  the  old  place  that  he  was  willing  to  suspend  judgment.  She  paid  off  the  cabdriver  and  tried  to  open  the  frontdoor,  but  the  lock  had  rusted  in  the  salt  air  and  he  had  to  help.  He  finally  got  the  door  open,  and  she  went  in  and  he  carried  in  the  bags  and  then,  of  course,  the  groceries.  She  knew  well  enough  that  the  place  was  homely-it  was  meant  to  be-but  the  lemony  smell  of  the  matchboard  walls  seemed  to  her  like  the  fragrance  of  the  lives  that  had  been  spent  there  in  the  sunny  months.  Her  sister's  old  vio-  lin  music,  her  brother's  German  text-  books,  the  water  color  of  a  thistle  her  aunt  had  painted  seemed  like  the  essence  of  their  lives.  And  while  she  had  quar-  relled  with  her  brother  and  her  sister  and  they  no  longer  communicated  with  each  other,  all  her  memories  now  were  kind  and  gentle.  &quot;I've  always  been  hap-  py  here,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I've  always  been  terribly  happy  here.  That's  why  I  want-  ed  to  come  back.  It's  cold  now,  of  course,  but  we  can  light  some  fires.&quot;  She  noticed  then,  on  the  wall  at  her  left,  the  pencil  markings  where  each  Fourth  of  July  her  uncle  had  stood  them  up  against  the  matchboard  and  recorded  their  growth.  Afraid  that  Emile  might  see  this  incriminating  evidence  of  her  age,  she  said,  &quot;Let's  put  the  groceries  in  the  ice-  box.&quot;  &quot;That's  a  funny  word,  icebox,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  never  heard  it  before.  It's  a  fun-  ny  thing  to  call  a  frigidaire.  But  you  speak  differently,  you  know  like  you.  You  say  lots  of  different  things.  Now,  you  say  'divine'-you  say  lots  of  things  are  'divine'-but,  you  know,  my  mother,  she  wouldn't  ever  use  that  word,  excepting  when  she  was  speaking  of  God.&quot;  Frightened  by  the  chart  in  the  hall-  way,  she  wondered  if  there  was  anything  else  incriminating  in  the  house,  and  re-  membered  the  gallery  of  family  photo-  graphs  in  the  upstairs  hall.  Herewere  pictures  of  her  in  school  uniforms,  in  cat-  boats,  and  many  pictures  of  her  playing  on  the  beach  with  her  son.  While  heput  the  groceries  away,  she  went  upstairs  and  hidthe  pictures  in  a  closet.  Then  they  walked  down  the  bluff  to  the  beach.  It  was  surprisingly  warm  for  that  time  of  year.  The  wind  was  southerly;  in  the  night  it  would  probably  change  around  to  the  southwest,  bringing  rain.  All  along  the  beach,  the  waves  from  [REDACTED]  rolled  in.  There  was  the  noise  of  a  detonation,  the  roar  of  furling  wa-  ter,  and  then  the  glistening  discharge  fanned  out  on  the  sand,  faded,  and  sank.  Ahead  ofher,  at  the  high-water  mark,  she  saw  a  sealed  bottle  with  a  note  in-  " b"side  and  ran  to  pick  it  up.  What  did  she  expect?  The  secret  of  the  Spada  treas-  ure,  or  a  proposal  of  marriage  from  a  French  sailor?  She  handed  Emile  the  bottle  and  he  broke  it  open  on  a  stone.  The  note  was  written  in  pencil.  &quot;'To  whomever  in  the  whole  wide  world  may  read  this  I  am  a  18  yr  old  college  boy,  sitting  on  the  beach  at  Madam-  quid  on  Sept.  8.  .  .  .&quot;  His  sense  of  the  act  of  setting  his  name  and  address  adrift  on  the  tide  was  rhapsodic,  but  the  bottle  must  have  returned  to  where  he  stood  a  little  while  after  he  had  walked  away.  Emile  asked  if  he  could  go  swimming,  and  then  bent  down  to  unlace  his  new  shoes.  One  of  the  laces  knotted  and  his  face  got  red.  She  dropped  to  her  knees  and  undid  it  herself.  He  got  out  of  his  clothes  hurriedly  in  order  to  display  his  youth  and  his  brawn,  but  he  asked  her  earnestly  if  she  minded  if  he  took  off  his  underpants.  He  stood  with  his  back  to  her  while  he  did  this,  and  then  walked  off  into  the  sea.  It  was  colder  than  he  had  expected.  His  shoulders  and  his  but-  tocks  tightened  and  his  head  shook.  Naked  and  shivering,  he  seemed  pitiful,  vain,  and  fair-a  common  young  man  trying  to  find  some  pleasure  and  adven-  ture  in  his  life.  He  dove  into  a  wave  and  then  came  lunging  back  to  where  she  stood.  His  teeth  were  chattering.  She  threw  her  coat  over  him  and  they  went  back  to  the  house.  She  had  been  right  about  the  wind.  After  midnight,  or  later,  it  came  out  of  the  southwest,  spouting  rain,  and  as  she  had  done  ever  since  she  was  a  child,  she  got  out  of  bed  and  crossed  the  room  to  close  the  windows.  He  woke  and  heard  the  sound  of  her  bare  feet  on  the  wood-  en  floor.  He  couldn't  see  her  in  the  dark,  but  as  she  came  back  toward  the  bed  her  step  sounded  heavy  and  old.  It  rained  in  the  morning.  They  walked  on  the  beach,  and  Jessica  cooked  a  chicken.  Looking  for  a  bottle  of  wine,  she  found  a  long-necked  green  bottle  of  Moselle,  like  the  bottle  she  had  set  out  in  her  dream  of  the  picnic  and  the  ruined  castle.  Emile  ate  most  of  the  chicken.  At  fourthey  took  a  cab  to  the  airport,  and  flew  back  to  New  York.  In  the  train  out  to  Proxmire  Manor  he  sat  several  seats  ahead  of  her,  reading  the  paper.  Tom  met  her  at  the  station  and  was  pleased  to  have  her  back.  The  baby  was  awake,  and  Jessica  sat  in  a  chair  in  their  bedroom  singing,  &quot;Sleep,  my  little  one,  sleep.  Thy  Father  guards  the  sheep.  ...&quot;  She  sang  until  both  the  baby  and  Tom  were  asleep.  MILE  was  at  the  house  the  next  afternoon  with  a  scheme.  Some  friends  of  his  had  a  shack  at  the  edge  of  " b"town  where  they  took  girls,  and  Jessica  and  he  could  meet  there.  He  admitted  that  it  wasn't  much  of  a  place,  but  he  could  get  a  clean  blanket  and  some  cur-  tains  for  the  windows.  He  might  even  paint  the  inside.  He  was  excited,  and  she  saw  that  there  wouldn't  be  any  point  in  stating  her  objections,  although  the  idea  disgusted  her.  He  told  her  the  next  afternoon  that  he  was  going  ahead  with  his  plans  for  improving  the  shack.  He  had  bought  some  paint  and  a  roller  and  was  going  to  do  the  walls  that  night.  It  would  be  ready  for  the  weekend.  She  put  him  off  that  weekend,  but  he  was  angry.  The  next  Saturday,  they  met  in  [REDACTED].  She  told  Tom  that  she  had  to  go  north  to  see  her  aunt.  Her  aunt  was  not  in  [REDACTED]-she  was  in  [REDACTED]-but  Tom  didn't  question  her  explanation.  She  and  Emile  flew  in  separate  planes.  He  arrived  an  hour  later  than  she,  and  went  to  her  room,  where  they  spent  the  afternoon.  Later  they  went  out  for  a  walk.  It  was  very  cold,  and,  looking  at  the  facades  and  campaniles  of  Copley  Square,  she  was  moved  by  the  thought  that  [REDACTED]  had  once  thought  itself  the  sister  city  of  Florence,  that  vale  of  flowers.  The  wind  scored  her  face.  He  stopped  to  look  at  aring  in  a  jewel-  ler's  window.  It  was  a  man's  ring,  a  star  sapphire  set  in  gold.  The  ring  did  not  interest  her,  but  it  seemed  to  hold  him.  She  shook  with  the  cold  while  he  ad-  mired  the  stone.  &quot;It's  pretty,  isn't  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  mean  the  star  caught  in  the  stone.  I  wonder  how  much  it  costs.  I'm  going  in  and  ask.&quot;  &quot;Don't,  Emile,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'm  frozen.  And  anyhow,  those  things  are  always  terribly  expensive.&quot;  &quot;I'll  just  ask.  It  won't  take  a  min-  ute.&quot;  She  waited  for  him  in  the  shelter  of  the  door.  &quot;Eight  hundred  dollars!&quot;  he  exclaimed  when  he  came  out.  &quot;Think  of  that.  Eight  hundred  dollars.&quot;  &quot;I  told  you  it  would  be  expensive.&quot;  &quot;Eight  hundred  dollars.  But  it  was  pretty,  though,  wasn't  it?  And  I  suppose  if  you  needed  money  you  could  always  sell  it.  I  mean,  they  must  fix  the  price  on  things  like  that,  don't  you  think?  It  would  be  sort  of  like  an  investment.  You  know,  if  I  had  eight  hundred  dol-  lars,  I  might  buy  a  ring  like  that.  I  just  might.  People,  when  they  saw  the  ring,  they  would  always  know  that  you  were  worth  eight  hundred  dollars.  Waiters.  Like  that.  I  mean  they  would  respect  you  when  you  were  wearing  a  ring  like  that.&quot;  It  seemed  to  her  that  he  was  deliber-  ately  debasing  their  relationship  and  forcing  her  into  the  humiliating  position  of  buying  him  the  ring,  but  she  was  mis-  " b"taken;  the  idea  had  never  occurred  to  him.  &quot;Do  you  want  me  to  buy  you  the  ring,  Emile?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  I  wasn't  thinking  about  that.  It  just  caught  my  eye.  You  know  how  things  catch  your  eye.&quot;  &quot;I'll  buy  it  for  you.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,  forget  about  it.&quot;  They  had  dinner  in  a  restaurant  and  went  to  a  movie.  Walking  back  to  the  hotel,  he  bought  a  newspaper,  and  he  sat  reading  it  in  her  room  while  she  un-  dressed  and  brushed  her  hair.  &quot;I'm  hungry,&quot;  he  said  suddenly.  His  tone  was  petulant.  &quot;At  home  I  get  a  bowl  of  cornflakes  or  a  sandwich-something  before  I  go  to  bed.&quot;  He  stood  up,  put  his  hands  on  his  stomach,  and  shouted,  &quot;I'm  hungry!  I  just  don't  get  enough  to  eat  in  these  restaurants.  I'm  still  growing.  I  have  to  have  three  big  meals  a  day  and  sometimes  something  in  between!&quot;  &quot;Well,  why  don't  yougo  down  and  get  something  to  eat?&quot;  &quot;Well.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  need  money?&quot;  &quot;Sort  of.&quot;  &quot;Here,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Here's  some  money.  Go  down  and  get  some  supper.&quot;  He  went  out,  but  he  didn't  return.  At  midnight  she  locked  the  door  and  went  to  sleep.  In  the  morning  she  |  dressed,  went  to  the  jeweller's,  and  &gt;  ]  &gt;  bought  the  ring.  &quot;Oh,  I  remember  you,&quot;  the  clerk  said.  &quot;I  saw  you  last  night.  I  saw  you  standing  outside  the  door  when  your  son  came  in  to  ask  the  price.&quot;  It  was  a  blow,  and  she  supposed  she  could  be  seen  to  flinch.  She  thought  that  perhaps  the  winter  dark  and  the  pale  light  in  the  street  had  made  her  seem  old.  &quot;You're  a  very  generous  mother,&quot;  the  clerk  said  when  he  took  her  check  and  passed  her  the  box.  She  called  Emile's  room  and  when  he  came  down  she  gave  him  the  ring.  His  pleasure  and  gratitude  were  not,  she  thought,  mercenary  and  crass  butonly  a  natural  response  to  the  ancient  tokens  of  love,  the  immemorial  power  of  stones  and  fine  gold.  It  was  a  foggy  afternoon,  all  the  planes  were  grounded,  and  they  went  back  on  the  train,  sitting  in  differ-  ent  cars.  He  sat  by  the  window,  watching  the  landscape.  Somewhere  south  of  [REDACTED],  the  train  passed  a  suburban  tract  of  houses.  They  were  new,  and  although  the  architects  and  the  gardeners  had  rung  a  few  changes  here  and  there,  the  effect  was  monotonous.  W  hat  interested  him  was  that  rising  in  the  center  of  the  development  was  alarge,  ugly,  loaf-  shaped,  and  colorless  escarpment  of  granite,  too  steep  to  hold  the  foundations  of  a  house.  It  was  the  only  form  on     " b"the  landscape  that  had  not  succumbed  to  change.  It  could  not  be  dynamited.  It  could  not  be  quarried  and  carried  away  piecemeal.  It  was  useless,  and  it  was  invincible.  Some  boys  his  age  were  climbing  the  steep  face,  and  he  guessed  this  was  their  last  refuge.  It  was  late  and  it  was  getting  cold,  and  he  could  remember  the  sense  of  the  season  and  the  hour  when  it  was  time  to  leave  off  playing  and  go  home  to  study.  Near  where  he  lived,  there  was  a  similar  rock,  and  he  had  climbed  it  on  winter  afternoons,  to  smoke  cigarettes  and  talk  with  his  friends  about  the  fu-  ture.  He  could  remember  grasping  for  handholds  on  the  steep  face,  and  how  the  rough  stone  pulled  at  his  best  school  clothes,  but  what  he  remembered  most  clearly  was  how  once  his  feet  were  on  the  ground  he  had  a  sense  of  awakening  to  a  whole  new  life,  the  arrival  at  a  new  state  of  consciousness,  as  clearly  unlike  his  past  as  sleep  is  unlike  waking.  Standing  at  the  foot  of  the  cliff  at  that  hour  and  season-about  to  go  home  and  study  but  not  yet  on  the  path-he  would  stare  at  the  yards  and  the  trees  and  the  lighted  houses  with  a  galvanic  sense  of  discovery.  How  forceful  and  interesting  the  world  had  seemed  in  the  early  winter  light!  How  new  it  all  scemed.  He  must  have  been  familiar  with  every  window,  roof,  tree,  and  landmark  in  the  place,  but  he  felt  as  if  he  were  seeing  it  all  for  the  first  time.  How  old  he  had  grown  since  then.  THEY  met  ten  days  or  two  weeks  later,  in  a  New  York  hotel.  She  was  there  first  and  ordered  some  whis-  key  and  roast-beef  sandwiches.  When  he  came  in,  she  poured  herself  a  drink  and  made  one  for  him,  and  he  ate  both  the  sandwiches  she  had  ordered.  She  was  wearing  a  bracelet,  made  of  silver  bells,  that  she  had  bought  long  ago  in  Casablanca.  She  had  been  given  a  Mediterranean  cruise  as  a  Christmas  present  by  a  rich  elderly  cousin,  and  in  her  travels  she  had  never  been  able  to  escape  a  genuine  and  oppressive  sense  of  gratitude  to  the  old  lady.  When  she  saw  Lisbon,  she  thought,  Oh,  Cousin  Martha,  I  wish  you  could  see  Lisbon!  When  she  saw  Rhodes,  she  thought,  Oh,  Cousin  Martha,  I  wish  you  could  see  Rhodes!  Standing  in  the  Casbah  at  dusk,  she  thought,  Oh,  Cousin  Martha,  I  wish  you  could  see  how  purple  the  skies  are  above  Africa'  Remembering  this,  she  gave  the  silver  bells  a  shake.  &quot;Do  you  have  to  wear  that  brace-  let?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Of  course  not,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  hate  that  kind  of  junky  stuff,&quot;  he  said.  'You've  got  lots  of  nice  jewelry-" b"those  sapphires.  I  don't  see  why  you  want  to  wear  junk.  'Those  bells  are  driving  me  crazy.  Every  time  you  move  they  jingle.  They  get  on  my  nerves.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,  darling,&quot;  she  said.  She  took  off  the  bracelet.  He  seemed  (|  ashamed  or  confused  by  his  harshness;  he  had  never  before  been  harshor  cal-  lous  with  her.  &quot;Sometimes  I  wonder  why  it  hap-  pened  to  me  like  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  mean,  I  couldn't  have  had  anything  better,  I  know  that.  You're  beautiful  and  you're  fascinating-you're  the  most  fascinat-  ing  woman  I  ever  saw-but  sometimes  I  wonder-wondered-why  it  should  happen  to  me  this  way.  I  mean,  some  fellows-right  away  they  get  a  pretty  young  girl,  she  lives  next  door,  their  folks  are  friendly,  they  go  to  the  same  schools,  the  same  dances,  they  go  danc-  ing  together,  they  fall  in  love  and  get  married.  But  I  guess  that's  not  for  poor  people.  No  pretty  girls  live  next  door  to  me.  There  aren't  any  pretty  girls  on  my  street.  Oh,  I'm  glad  it  happened  to  me  the  way  it  did,  but  I  can't  stop  wonder-  ing  what  it  would  have  been  like  some  other  way.  I  mean  like  in  Nantucket  that  weekend.  'That  was  the  big  foot-  ball  weekend,  and  I  was  thinking,  there  we  were,  all  alone  in  that  gloomy  old  house-that  was  a  real  gloomy  place,  rainy  and  everything-while  some  fel-  lows  were  driving  in  convertibles  to  the  football  game.&quot;  &quot;I  must  seem  terribly  old.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no.  No,  you  don't.  It  isn't  that.  .  ..  Only  once.  That  was  in  Nan-  tucket,  too.  It  was  raining  in  the  night.  It  began  to  rain  andyou  got  up  to  shut  the  window.&quot;  &quot;And  I  seemed  terribly  old?&quot;  &quot;Just  for  a  minute.  ...  Not  really.  But  you  see,  you're  used  to  comfort,  you're  different.  Two  cars,  plenty  of  clothes.  I'm  just  a  poor  kid.&quot;  &quot;Does  it  matter?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  know  you  think  it  doesn't,  but  it  does.  When  you  go  into  a  restau-  rant,  you  never  look  at  the  prices.  Now,  your  husband,  he  can  buy  you  all  these  things.  He  can  buy  you  anything  you  want,  he's  loaded,  but  I'm  just  a  poor  kid.  I  guess  I'm  sort  of  a  lone  wolf.  I  guess  most  poor  people  are.  I'll  never  live  in  a  house  like  yours.  I'll  never  get  to  joina  country  club.  I'll  never  have  a  place  at  the  beach.  And  I'm  still  hun-  gry,&quot;  he  said,  looking  at  the  empty  sand-  wich  plate.  &quot;I'm  still  growing,  you  know.  I  have  to  have  lunch.  I  don't  want  to  seem  ungrateful  or  anything,  but  I'm  hungry.&quot;  &quot;You  go  down  to  the  dining  room,  darling,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  get  some  lunch.  Here's  five  dollars.&quot;  She  kissed  " b"him,  and  then  as  soon  as  he  was  gone  she  left  the  hotel  herself.  She  wandered  around  the  streets-  she  had  no  place  to  go-wondering  what  had  been  the  first  in  the  chain  of  events  that  had  brought  her  to  where  she  was.  The  barking  of  a  dog,  the  dream  of  a  castle,  or  her  boredom  at  Mrs.  Wishing's  dance?  She  waited  for  the  crushing  pain  of  guilt  and  retribu-  tion,  but  the  blow  seemed  suspended,  and  the  thought  of  Emile  eating  his  lunch  put  some  blessed  distance  between  her  and  him;  they  were  individuals  once  more.  She  took  a  train  home,  her  only  anxiety  then  being  that  he  would  follow  her  and  insist  on  some  roaring  con-  frontation-insist  at  least  on  a  scene-  although  she  should  have  known  him  better  than  this.  The  afternoon  passed  quietly,  and  they  never  met  again  except  in  passing.  Driving  down  Green  Street  one  evening,  she  saw  him  with  a  big  blonde-a  girl  two  or  three  inches  taller  than  he.  Tom  never  once  suspected  what  had  been  going  on,  and  she  bought  her  groceries  someplace  else. "