 b"Mrs.  CourtENay  RocErs  was  M  the  only  woman  I  have  ever  known  who  played  No\xc3\xa9l  Coward's  musicon  the  bells  of  a  Lon-  don  church.  She  played  it  regularly.  The  effect  was  not  the  same  as  that  achieved  by  a  team  of  experienced  ring-  ers,  but  I  used  to  think  her  music  (tunes  from  &quot;Bitter  Sweet,&quot;  &quot;This  Year  of  Grace,&quot;  &quot;On  with  the  Dance,&quot;  and  &quot;Cavalcade&quot;  )  sounded  fine  floating  out,  several  days  a  week,  over  the  lunch-  hour  traffic.  Dr.Courtenay  Rogers  was  rector  of  a  church  I  shall  callSt.  [REDACTED]'s.  He  was  one  of  the  best-known  preachers  in  England  in  the  nineteen-thirties.  My  father  and  Dr.  Rogers  were  at  [REDACTED]  together,  and  both  became  Church  of  England  ministers-Dr.  Rogers  with  a  city  pastorate  and  my  father  with  a  country  one.  'The  two  men  saw  little  of  each  other  after  they  left  the  university,  but  they  kept  in  touch,  and  when  I  went  to  [REDACTED]  as  a  student,  my  father  sent  Dr.  Rogers  my  address.  I  had  a  room  in  a  women's  hostel,  and  soon  after  I  had  settled  in,  I  got  aletter  from  Mrs.  Rogers  inviting  me  to  Sunday-afternoon  tea.  I  had  heard  about  the  Rogerses  all  my  life,  but  until  that  tea  I  had  never  met  them.  I  knew  what  Dr.  Rogers  looked  like  from  his  pictures  in  the  news-  papers  (he  was  tall,  and-for  a  middle-  aged  man-handsome,  I  thought),  and  I  had  heard  his  powerful  voice  over  the  radio  making  charitable  appeals.  My  father  said  that  he  was  one  of  those  people  who  seem  to  know  from  the  first  what  they  want  to  do  in  life.  Courtenay  Rogers  hadgone  directly  from  Cam-  bridge  to  a  theological  college.  After-  ward,  he  had  worked  in  a  seamen's  mission  in  Liverpool  and  then  in  a  fash-  ionable  [REDACTED]  suburb  before  going  to  his  charge  at  St.  [REDACTED]'s.  There  are  eight  theatres  in  St.  [REDACTED]'s  parish,  and  in  one  of  these  Dr.  Rogers  met  his  wifee-met  Alice.  She  was  playing  the  piano  in  a  revue,  and  a  great  many  people-Alice  herself  among  thLm\xe2\x80\x94objcctcd  to  the  idea  of  his  marrying  her.  She  pointed  out  that  she  had  neither  the  education  nor  the  interest  in  religion  that  the  wife  ofthe  rector  of  St.  [REDACTED]'s  ought  to  have.  Dr.  Rogers  replied  that  he  did  not  care  a  button  about  her  education,  and  as  for  her  lack  of  interest  in  religion,  that  might  not  be  a  bad  thing  in  the  wife  of  a  preacher.  My  parents'  opinion  was  that  in  marrying  Alice  Dr.  Rogers  showed  very  good  sense.  Alice  might  not  have  " b"had  much  formal  education,  but  she  came  from  a  close-knit  family  (her  |W  father,  two  of  her  uncles,  and  her  brother  were  on  the  stage,  and  a  grand-  father  had  been  a  famous  clown),  and  she  had  the  cheerfulness  and  adaptabil-  ity  that  her  new  life  called  for.  She  was  younger  than  her  husband  by  a  good  many  years,  but  this  did  not,  as  some  people  said  it  would,  send  her  running  |I  back  into  the  theatre  once  the  novelty  of  \xc2\xa5  St.  [REDACTED]'s  rectory  wore  off.  &quot;She's  a  |\\  charming  woman,&quot;  my  mother  told  me  {}{|  before  I  went  to  [REDACTED],  &quot;and  when  you  meet  her,  notice  her  hair-how  ||  beautifully  brushed  it  is.&quot;  At  the  time  I  went  to  that  first  tea  ||  at  the  Rogerses',  they  had  been  married  about  ten  years.  St.  [REDACTED]'s  rectory  en-  chanted  me  at  once,  in  a  way  no  other  house  has  ever  done.  Part  ofthe  reason  was  simply  its  location.  It  stood  on  a  }|&amp;  small  rise  between  two  busy  thorough-  fares,  one  running  northeast  and  the  other  northwest,  that  converged  and  joined  in  front  of  it.  It  was  a  tall,  angu-  lar  house,  and  its  bay-windowed  front  ||  jutted  out  into  the  traffic  like  a  ship  with  a  rounded  prow.  It  was  Georgian,  built  of  stone,  and  coated  with  soot.  I  arrived  at  four  o'clock,  to  find  a  tea  ||  party  already  going  on.  Some  fifteen  or  twenty  people,  most  of  them  near  my  own  age,  were  standing  about  the  rectory  living  room  with  teacups  in  their  hands.  There  were  plates  of  cakes  and  sandwiches  and  a  bowl  of  buttered  crumpets  on  a  round  table  in  the  bay  window.  Mrs.  Rogers  came  forward  to  greet  me-a  short,  slim  woman  with  a  serene  face  and  gleaming  red  hair,  and  I  saw  what  my  mother  had  meant  about  brushing.  Mrs.  Rogers  shook  hands  with  me  warmly  and  introduced  me  to  the  other  people  in  the  room.  Many  of  them  were  actors,  or  student  actors  from  [REDACTED]  theatre  schools.  One  guest  was  a  girl  who  was  studying  fash-  ion  drawing,  and  another  was  a  Jamai-  can  doctor,  somewhat  older  than  the  rest  of  us.  As  the  cakes  and  crumpets  disappeared,  a  woman  in  a  white  apron  brought  in  fresh  ones.  Mrs.  Rogers  in-  troduced  me  to  her,  t  oo.  She  was  the  &amp;  __  _  housekeeper,  Mrs.  Tucker.  The  room  was  large  enough  so  it  didn't  seem  crowded,  and  as  comfort-  ably  shabby  as  our  own  living  room  at  |  home.  There  were  built-in  bookcases  |,  full  of  books  with  the  titles  rubbed  and  worn,  some  hunting  prints,  and  an  oil  painting  of  a  young  man  in  a  satin  waist,  coat.  On  a  stand  at  one  side  of  the  win-  dow  there  was  a  large  bird  cagecon-  taining  a  fat  canary  whose  name,  the  Jamaican  told  me,  was  Noah.  Noah's " b"cage  was  equipped  with  all  kinds  of  swings,  seesaws,  parallel  bars,  and  other  sporting  gear,  but  he  seemed  to  have  given  up  on  his  figure,  and  instead  of  exercising  he  preferred  to  loll  on  a  small  bench  conveniently  placed  where  he  could  see  his  reflection  in  a  small  oval  mirror.  Presently,  Dr.  Rogers  came  in,  look-  ing  exactly  like  his  pictures.  He  bowed  in  the  general  direction  ofthe  cake  table,  and  then  went  to  the  opposite  end  of  the  room  and  sat  down  in  a  large  armchair.  Immediately,  Mrs.  Tucker  appeared  carrying  a  tray  on  which  were  arranged  a  small  pot  of  tea,  a  milk  jug,  a  sugar  bowl,  and  a  plate  of  petits-beurres.  She  set  the  tray  down  beside  the  rector,  and  Mrs.  Rogers  drew  a  stool  up  next  to  him  and  poured.  For  ten  minutes  or  so,  there  were  two  distinct  tea  parties  in  the  room-the  Rogerses'  and  the  Rogerses'  guests'.  When  Dr.  Rogers  was  on  to  his  sec-  ond  cup,  Mrs.  Rogers  came  to  our  end  ofthe  room  and  selected  a  couple  of  us  to  present  to  her  husband.  As  a  newcomer,  and  the  daughter  of  an  old  friend,  I  was  one.  Dr.  Rogers  shook  hands  with  me  and  inquired  kindly  about  my  father,  He  asked,  &quot;How  many  of  you  are  there?  I'm  afraid  Ifor-  get.\xe2\x80\x99,  &quot;Just  me,&quot;  I  said.  He  looked  me  over  doubtfully.  &quot;Few  and  fit,&quot;  he  muttered.  &quot;Ah,  well  ...&quot;  HAT  was  about  as  much  conver-  sation  asI  ever  had  with  Dr.  Rogers  at  any  one  time,  although  after  my  first  visit  I  often  went  to  tea  at  the  rectory  on  Sunday  afternoons;  Mrs.  Rogers  gave  me  an  open  invitation,  and  it  was  a  pleasant  habit  to  get  into.  I  thought  it  very  nice  of  her  to  make  time  to  entertain  much  the  same  young  group  week  after  week  when  she  led  such  a  crowded  social  life  in  addition.  Judging  from  the  array  of  invitation  cards  on  the  living-room  mantelpiece,  the  Rogerses  attended  a  great  many  parties.  One  day,  I  discovered  that  about  half  the  cards  were  old  ones.  Mrs.  Rogers  explained  that  she  kept  them  after  the  parties  were  over  because  they  made  such  good  scrapers  for  the  floor  of  Noah's  cage.  &quot;The  Lord  Mayor's  are  the  best,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;They're  very  thick,  with  a  sloping  gilt  edge.&quot;  I  had  been  going  to  Mrs.  Rogers'  teas  for  several  months  before  it  dawned  on  me  why  the  other  guests  and  I  were  invited.  We  constituted  one  of  her  wedges.  Dr.  Rogers  worked  all  the  time  among  disappointed,  disillusioned,  dissatisfied  people  who  came  to  St. " b"[REDACTED]'s  from  all  over  the  British  Isles.  They  waited  in  line  for  hours  to  hear  him  preach,  and  even  longer  in  the  wait-  ing  room  outside  his  office  to  consult  him  privately  about  their  problems.  Dr.  Rogers  was  supposed  to  take  Mondays  off,  but  I  don't  think  he  often  did.  He  loved  his  work,  and  he  was  extremely  good  at  it.  But  he  didn't  have  any  hob-  bies,  or  any  children.  He  had  noth-  ing  whatever  to  distract  him  from  his  calling,  except  his  wife.  Once,  Mrs.  Rogers  asked  me,  &quot;You  know  what  it  feels  like  to  be  lazy,  don't  you?&quot;  &quot;Well,  yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Everyone  &quot;Not  Courtenay,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  hasn't  any  idea.  And,  you  know,  if  a  person  has  to  ask  what's  attractive  about  sloth,  there's  really  no  way  to  explain.&quot;  She  was  laughing  at  him,  but  at  the  same  time  she  was  concerned.  &quot;He's  much  the  same  about  leisure.  'The  only  rea-  son  we  go  to  the  theatre  as  much  as  we  do  is  to  please  me,and  because  his  doctor  says  he  must  have  some  relaxation.&quot;  &quot;But  it  was  in  a  theatre  that  he  met  you.&quot;  ''Yes,  but  he  hadn't  come  to  see  the  show.  He'd  come  to  meet  his  parish-  ioners.&quot;  So  Mrs.  Rogers  dedicated  herself  to  inserting  wedges  of  entertainment  into  her  husband's  schedule,  and,  up  to  a  point,  she  was  just  as  successful  at  her  job  as  he  was  at  his.  I  don't  know  how  many  wedges  she  thought  up  altogether,  but  there  were  two  that  directly  con-  cerned  me,  and  two  others  that  I  knew  of.  The  first  wedge  was  the  one  I  have  already  mentioned-the  Sunday-after-  noon  teas.  I  noticed  that  Dr.  Rogers  never  talked  much,.  Instead  of  talking,  he  listened  to  us,  and  we,  I  am  afraid,  talked  exclusively  about  ourselves.  The  actors  who  were  in  plays  talked  about  their  work,  the  actors  who  were  not  in  plays  talked  about  the  opportunities  waiting  for  them  around  the  next  cor-  ner,  and  the  students  described  the  illus-  trious  futures  they  had  planned.  But  Dr.  Rogers,  who  could  have  found  us  childish  and  tiresome,  seemed  to  enjoy  his  brief  meetings  with  us.  He  always  came  in  to  tea  looking  tired  and  went  out  again  looking  less  so.  When  he  was  in  the  room,  all  of  us,  I  think,  felt  acertain  amount  of  con-  straint.  We  were  quieter  than  we  were  apt  to  be  when  we  had  Mrs.  Rogers  to  ourselves.  But  although  she  didn't  mind  how  much  noise  we  made,  she  wouldn't  let  anyone  forget  that  this  was  St.  [REDACTED]'s  rectory,  and  not  back-  stage  somewhere,  or  a  student  dormi-    " b"tory.  One  time,  an  uncle  of  hers,  a  short,  jolly  man  who  favored  black-and-  white  checked  suits,  began  telling  a  group  of  usa  story.  Mrs.Rogers  joined  us,  and  he  stopped  abruptly.  Putting  his  arm  affectionately  around  her  waist,  he  said,  &quot;Well,  now  that  Alice  is  here,  I  suppose  I  can't  go  on?&quot;  She  smiled  and,  without  sounding  at  all  priggish,  replied,  &quot;No,  Jack,  I'm  afraid  you  can't.&quot;  Another  of  Alice  Rogers'  wedges  was  the  theatre.  She  and  Dr.  Rogers  saw  everything  that  was  produced  at  the  cight  theatres  in  the  parish,  and  a  good  many  otherproductions  as  well,  includ-  ing  ice  shows  and  non-stop  variety,  and  one  January  when  my  parents  were  in  town  for  a  vacation,  we  all  went  to  a  play  together.  I  don't  remember  what  it  was,  but  I  remember  very  well  the  dinner  that  preceded  it.  The  Rogerses,  who  liked  to  patronize  the  neighbor-  hood  restaurants,  suggested  eating  out.  We  all  met  at  the  Parthenon,a  tiny  place  that  had  recently  been  opened  by  a  Greek  family  named  Lito.  Earlier  in  the  day,  Dr.  Rogers  had  paid  a  pastoral  call  on  the  Litos  (he  always  called  on  the  residents  of  the  parish,  whether  they  were  Church  of  England  or  not),  and  they  knew  we  were  coming  and  turned  out  to  welcome  us.  There  were  five  of  them,  and  they  comprised  the  restau-  rant  staff:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lito,  a  son,  Harry,  andtwo  daughters,  Helen  and  Marie.  Marie,  the  younger  girl,  was  our  waitress  that  night.  Mrs.  Rogers  ordered  a  mixed-vegetable  soup  that  Mr.  Lito  recommended,  and  in  her  haste  to  serve  it  Marie  slipped  and  poured  it  all  into  Mrs.  Rogers'  lap.  There,  on  a  background  ofrose  silk,  lay  broccoli  flowers,  tomato  slices,  potato  cubes,  cabbage  slivers,  pearl  onions,  as-  paragus  heads,  strips  of  leek,  and  sever-  al  varieties  of  bean.  Marie's  screams  brought  Helen  running,  and  soon  the  whole  family,  other  diners  forgotten,  stood  about  our  table,  weeping,  arguing,  and  wringing  their  hands.  Mrs.  Rogers,  her  self-possession  in  no  way  impaired,  quietly  asked  Mr.  Lito  and  his  son  to  fetch  towels,  bowls,  and  a  mop.  Then  she  set  about  comforting  the  hysterical  women.  Taking  Mrs.  Lito's  hands  in  hers,  she  explained  that  her  dress,  though  new,  was  made  of  a  special  ma-  terial  that  would  dry  in  a  matter  of  minutes  and  take  no  stain.  This  was  untrue.  The  dress  was  ruined.  ORMALL  Y,  the  Rogerses  went  to  the  theatre  alone;  our  party  was  an  exception.  Alice  liked  to  keep  up  her  theatrical  connections.  A  couple  of" b"days  a  week,  she  helped  at  a  theatre  '  _|  girls'  residential  club,  and  during  the  Christmas  pantomime  season  she  ran  a  club  of  her  own  for  child  actors  in  St.  [REDACTED]'s  crypt.  Pantomimes  are  usually  _|  presented  twice  daily,  and  the  club  was  open  from  lunchtime  until  after  the  eve-  ning  show.  Meals  were  served  and  |  games  were  organized,  and  there  was  a  separate  room  fitted  up  with  cots  for  artistes  to  take  naps  in.  A  third  wedge  of  relaxation  that  Alice  evolved  for  her  husband  was  their  breakfast  pattern.  On  wet  days,  when  I  went  to  lectures  by  bus  instead  of  walk-  ing,  I  could  see  their  breakfast  table  clearly.  It  was  in  the  bay  window  of  their  bedroom,  on  the  second  floor-a  large  room  over  the  living  room.  There  they  would  sit,  just  about  on  a  level  with  the  tops  of  the  passing  buses,  therector  in  his  dressing  gown,  eating  eggs  and  reading  the  Times,  and  Alice  in  a  pretty  wrap,  presiding  and  pouring  coffee.  They  were  assured  of  quiet,  because  their  room  had  double  windows,  and  they  did  not  seem  to  mind  the  fact  that  otherwise  they  completely  lacked  pri-  vacy.  [REDACTED],  their  bad-tempered  Siamese  cat,  would  be  on  the  window  sill  nearby.  It  was  a  scene  more  appro-  priateto  a  country  house  than  to  asoot-  covered  building  in  central  [REDACTED].  If  I  was  late,  Dr.  Rogers  would  have  fin-  ished  breakfast.  He  would  be  smoking  his  pipe,  sitting  at  the  table  alone,  usu-  ally  with  his  head  turned  a  little  to  one  side.  Mrs.  Tucker  once  told  me  that  when  I  saw  him  that  way,  he  was  listen-  ing  to  Mrs.  Rogers  play  the  piano.  She  kept  her  piano  farther  back  in  the  room,  and  she  had  persuaded  Dr.  Rogers  not  to  make  appointments  before  ten  or  ten-thirty  in  the  morning,  so  that  he  could  begin  his  day  with  a  leisurely  meal  and  a  private  concert.  I  never  heard  of  her  playing  for  anyone  else.  BUT  the  wedge  I  liked  best  was  the  bells.  As  soon  as  I  discovered  that  it  was  Mrs.  Rogers  who  played  the  musical-comedy  numbers  from  St.  [REDACTED]'s  belfry,  I  told  her  about  the  fine  peal  we  had  in  our  church  at  home,  and  how  I  was  sometimes  allowed  to  watch  our  ringers  at  work.  I  also  told  her  how  curious  I  was  to  know  how  one  person  could  handle  a  full  set  of  bells  by  herself;  bell  ringing  is  complicated.  Mrs.  Rogers  responded  by  inviting  me  to  go  with  her  the  nexttime  she  played.  So,  one  morning,  we  met  by  appoint-  ment  at  the  belfry  door  and  climbed  the  spiral  stone  steps  together.  St.  [REDACTED]'s  ringers'  chamber  was  approxi-  mately  thirteen  feet  square  and  panelled " b"in  light  wood,  with  thick  coconut  mat-  ting  on  the  floor  and  a  high  ceiling  pierced  by  a  circle  of  eight  holes  for  the  bell  ropes  of  the  peal  of  eight  bells.  This  was  a  familiar  sight  to  me,  and  I  knew  that  to  handle  the  eight  bells  in  the  normal  way,  one  man  per  rope  would  be  required;  bells  are  heavy,  and  one  bell  needs  one  man's  attention.  Each  rope  turns  a  wheel,  the  wheel  is  attached  to  a  bell  and  revolves  it,  and  the  tongue  inside  the  barrel(as  the  casing  is  called)  is  swung.  'This  operation  takes  time;  there  is  a  perceptible  pause  between  the  pull  on  the  bell  rope  and  the  bell's  reply.  In  addition,  the  sound  made  by  the  tongue  hitting  the  inside  of  the  barrel  produces  a  reverberation  that  must  also  be  allowed  for;  otherwise  the  whole  business  becomes  a  booming  and  a  mud-  dle.  I  was  still  wondering  how  Mrs.  Rogers  was  going  to  handle  this  intri-  cate  matter  on  her  own  when  I  noticed  that  near  one  side  ofthe  ceiling  there  was  a  row  of  eight  smaller  holes  through  which  came  a  set  of  much  smaller  ropes.  Ac  a  height  of  about  six  feet  from  the  floor,  these  were  threaded  through  a  wooden  frame,  about  the  size  of  a  card-  table  top,  so  that  they  hung  straight  down  and  only  a  few  inches  apart.  These,  I  realized,  were  Mrs.  Rogers'  ropes,  and  I  assumed  that  the  purpose  of  the  frame  was  to  enable  her  to  reach  them  all  easily,  but  she  said  it  was  to  make  sure  that  they  did  not  foul  each  other  when  she  pulled  them.  &quot;My  ropes  can  hang  in  a  row  like  that  because  they  only  control  hammers  on  the  outsides  ofthe  barrels,&quot;  she  told  me.  &quot;It's  not  a  method  that  expert  ringers  approve  of-  they  think  that  'clocking'  a  bell  is  apt  to  crack  it.  But  it's  the  only  way  in  which  one  person  can  handle  a  full  peal.  A  clocked  bell  answers  immediately,  which  simplifies  the  ringer's  job,  though  I  ad-  mit  the  result  isn't  as  satisfactory  to  the  ear.  There's  almost  no  reverberation  from  a  clocked  bell-the  sound  escapes  at  once-whereas,  with  the  rope-and-  wheel  method,  it's  held  in  and  escapes  slowly.&quot;  While  I  sat  on  a  bench  against  one  wall,  Mrs.  Rogers  stood  before  her  frame  with  her  music-big  square  notes  like  those  of  a  child's  first  piano  piece-  set  on  a  violin  stand  beside  her.  She  concentrated,  bracing  the  frame  with  her  left  hand  and  pulling  the  ropes  [!  sharply  with  her  right.  She  played  a  Coward  waltz  that  morning,  and  a  nursery  rhyme,  and  two  of  the  tunes  from  a  musical  that  (she  told  me  later)  she  and  Dr.  Rogers  had  seen  a  few  nights  before.  'Then  she  rested  a  min- " b"ute  or  two  before  repeating  her  pro-  gram.  We  couldn't  talk  while  Mrs.  Rogers  played,  but  on  our  way  down  the  stairs  she  told  me  a  little  about  herself.  She  was  a  true  Cockney,  born  within  the  sound  of  Bow  bells.  Her  grandfather  (the  one  who  wasn't  a  clown)  had  owned  an  inn  in  Cheapside,  quite  close  to  the  church  of  St.  Mary-le-Bow.  The  inn  had  been  pulled  down  long  since  and  replaced  by  a  block  of  offices,  but  dur-  ing  Mrs.  Rogers'  childhood  her  grand-  father's  home  had  been  frequented  by  the  Bow  bell  ringers,  and  she  had  sometimes  persuaded  them  to  let  her  watch  them  work.  She  loved  bells,  and  she  would  have  liked  to  ring  with  the  regular  St.  [REDACTED]'s  team,  but  ringing  changes  is  men's  pleasure,  and  she  had  to  content  herself  with  her  frame.  When  Dr.  Rogers  heard  his  wife  be-  gin  to  play,  he  stopped  whatever  he  was  doing  and  listened  until  she  had  finished.  Other  people  in  the  neighborhood  of  the  church  did  the  same;  the  hammers  on  the  outsides  of  the  bells  made  a  loud,  cheerful  noise  one  could  hardly  ignore.  Mrs.  Rogers  didn't  have  a  regular  schedule  for  playing-special  services  such  as  weddings  prevented  that-but  she  played  whenever  she  could,  provid-  ing  one  more  wedge  for  her  husband,  and  I  often  watched  her.  N  the  course  of  these  pleasant  sessions,  Mrs.  Rogers  and  I  got  to  know  each  other  well.  I  found  that  she  enjoyed  giving  advice.  &quot;Always  treat  a  proposal  of  marriage  seriously,&quot;  she  cautioned  me,  as  if,  as  was  not  the  case,  I  had  just  receivedone.  &quot;That's  the  one  time  in  your  life  when  you  need  think  only  of  yourself.&quot;  In  her  opinion,  students  talkedtoo  much.  When  one  time  I  re-  ceived  some  flowers  from  a  man,  in  a  box  addressed  to  me  but  with  a  card  for  another  girl  tucked  inside,  Mrs.  Rogers  listened  to  my  opinion  of  the  situation  and  then  said,  &quot;Well,  ifit  were  me,  'd  want  to  leave  the  field  clearfor  the  other  girl  to  make  a  fuss.  I  wouldn't  say  anything.  I'd  just  give  him  a  big  hug&quot;)  Her  methods  were  not  always  suc-  cessful  (it  saddens  me  that  I  cannot  now  remember  whether  the  hug  was,  or  even  if  I  tried  it),  but  her  advice  nearly  always  made  sense.  Once,  as  we  emerged  from  the  belfry  stairs,  we  were  met  by  a  distraught  young  actor  named  Michael,  who  came  occasionally  to  the  Sunday  teas.  Michael  had  a  pretty  wife  who  hadgone  to  New  York  in  a  play,  and  he  was  waving  an  eighteen-page  letter  from  her  in  which  she  explained" b"that  she  had  fallen  in  love  with  some-  one  else  and  wanted  a  divorce.  Mrs.  Rogers,  far  from  offering  sympathy,  told  Michael  to  stop  whining.  He  said  that  he  must  write  his  wife,  and  he  didn't  know  what  to  say.  Mrs.  Rogers  replied,  &quot;Don't  write.  Cable,&quot;  and  together  they  concocted  a  brief  message  (&quot;DEAR  DON'T  BE  SILLY&quot;  ),  as  a  result  of  which  Michael's  wife  returned,  and  so  far  as  I  know  lived  happily  with  him  ever  after.  Sometimes,  going  to  or  from  the  bells,  I  tried  to  get  Mrs.  Rogers  to  discuss  religion,  but  all  I  ever  learned  about  her  beliefs,  apart  from  her  insistence  that  she  wasn't  a  religious  woman,  was  that,  unlike  most  of  the  members  of  Dr.  Rogers'  congregations,  she  believed  that  one  should  shoulder  one's  troubles  with-  out  complaining.  This  quickly  became  the  core  of  my  own  faith,  such  as  it  was;  I  admired  Mrs.  Rogers  very  much.  Changing  over  from  the  theatre  to  the  church  couldn't  have  been  easy  for  her,  but  she  never  let  any  aspect  of  it  get  the  better  of  her.  My  father  reported  that  soon  after  the  Rogerses  were  mar-  ried  they  attended  a  large  city  banquet  together.  Mrs.  Rogers  found  herself  seated  some  distance  away  from  her  hus-  band,  and  faced  with  an  unfamiliar  ar-  ray  of  spoons,  forks,  knives,  and  glasses.  Instead  of  worrying  about  which  to  use,  she  simply  turned  to  the  man  sitting  next  to  her  and  asked  him  to  begin  each  course  ahead  of  her  so  that  she  could  follow  his  signals.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  em-  barrass  my  hosts  by  making  mistakes,&quot;  she  said.  She  was  in  many  ways  a  frivolous  woman,  though  I  wouldn't  then  have  used  that  word  to  describe  her.  She  lived  entirely  in  the  present.  She  adored  her  husband,  and  she  loved  the  theatre,  playing  bells,  playing  the  piano,  and  making  hats.  In  the  well-ordered  world  she  provided  for  Dr.  Rogers,  the  only  serious  questions  concerned  her  own  millinery.  As  soon  as  she  had  finished  making  something  that  therector  thought  looked  particularly  pretty  on  her  head,  she  would  tear  it  apart  and  re-  make  it  some  other  way.  ALSO  liked  hats  and  the  theatre  and  bells  and  piano  music,  and  since  I  felt  so  much  more  at  home  with  Mrs.  Rogers'  interests  than  I  did  with  her  husband's,  it  puzzles  me  why  I  so  often  listened  to  his  preaching.  Part  of  the  reason  was  custom.  I  found  my  work  at  the  university  absorbing,  but  weekends  were  apt  to  drag,  and  churchgoing  was  a  way  to  pass  the  time-one  that  readily  occurs  to  someone  raised  in  a  clerical" b"household.  I  could,  of  course,  have  found  some  other  church  with  a  preach-  er  who  appealed  to  me  more  than  Dr.  Rogers  did,  but  since  on  most  Sundays  I  was  already  at  St.  [REDACTED]'s  rectory  for  tea,  it  was  easy  to  go  on  to  church  with  Mrs.  Rogers.  Not  that  I  found  the  services  dull.  We  sang  popular  hymns,  and  the  preacher,  with  his  steel-gray  hair,  dark  eyes,  and  tremendous  sincerity,  was  spellbinding.  At  the  beginning  of  the  sermon,  all  the  lights  in  the  church  would  be  turned  out  except  for  one  spot  above  Dr.  Rogers'  head,  and  his  con-  gregations  would  sit  breathless.  I  was  swept  along  by  him  as  much  as  anyone  else,  and  it  was  only  afterward,  when  I  thought  about  what  he  had  said,  that  he  didn't  seem  to  make  sense  to  me.  He  always  talked  about  the  same  things-  about  hope  and  encouragement  and  consolation,  and  he  addressed  his  re-  marks  without  exception  to  the  middle-  aged  and  elderly  who  thronged  his  church.  I  felt  that  these  people,  with  their  college  examinations  behind  them  and  their  careers  and  marriage  partners  long  ago  settled,  were  far  less  in  need  of  encouragement  than  those  of  us  who  still  had  these  vital  decisions  to  make.  One  day,  I  said  as  much  to  Mrs.  Rogers,  and  she  laughed.  I  tried  to  get  her  to  admit  that  she  agreed,  but  she  only  said,  &quot;It's  no  good  trying  to  make  me  talk  about  religion-I  won't.  Some-  times  Courtenay  wants  to,  but  if  he  once  begins  bringing  work  home,  when's  he  going  to  get  any  rest?&quot;  I  told  her  that  in  my  home  there  were  no  such  restrictions.  On  Sunday  morn-  ings,  I  always  listened  with  the  closest  attention  to  my  father's  sermons  in  the  hope  that  I  should  be  able  to  catch  him  out  (in  a  misattributed  quotation,  for  example)  and  bring  my  catch  to  lunch-  eon.  But  I  didn't  enlarge  on  the  subject  to  Mrs.  Rogers.  She  had  a  polite  but  firm  way  of  heading  off  a  conversation  if  she  didn't  want  to  pursue  it.  She  could  be  quite  firm  when  she  wished.  Usually  I  approved  of  her  be-  havior  and  liked  to  emulate  it,  but  there  was  one  occasion  when  I  didn't  approve  at  all,  and  that  was  the  Christmas  when  she  persuaded  me  and  a  number  of  the  other  students  who  went  regularly  to  her  Sunday  teas  to  takepart  in  a  pageant  she  directed.  I  had  appeared  in  church  pageants  before,  and  I  had  enjoyed  dressing  up  and  strutting  about.  But  Mrs.  Rogers  brought  an  unwelcome  professional  touch  to  the  proceedings.  She  insisted  on  endless  rehearsals  and  no  strutting.  (&quot;I  don't  feel  reverent  when  I'm  floodlit,&quot;  I  complained  at  one  point.  " b"'You're  not  here  to  feel  reverent,&quot;  Mrs,  Rogers  retorted.  &quot;You're  here  to  keep  awake  and  watch  your  cues.&quot;)  A  full  week  of  performances  was  giv-  en  in  St.  [REDACTED]'s  sanctuary,  with  pro-  fessional  singers  augmenting  the  regu-  lar  choir  and  a  professional  orchestra  helping  out  the  organist.  Two  young  artists,  who  later  made  names  for  them-  selves  as  dress  designers,  were  brought  in  to  do  our  clothes.  Mrs.  Rogers  gave  Dr.  Rogers  the  only  speaking  part-  that  of  narrator  of  the  Christmas  story-and  all  that  the  rest  of  us  were  permitted  to  do  was  to  move  at  intervals  from  chalk  mark  to  chalk  mark  on  the  floors  ofthe  nave  and  chancel.  The  pageant  was  a  tremendous  success,  and  Mrs.  Rogers  was  eager  to  do  it  again  the  following  year,  but  we  remembered  how  demanding  she  had  been,  and  how  disapproving  when  we  overstepped  our  chalk.  No  one  would  volunteer  for  a  second  production,  and  the  project  had  to  be  abandoned.  My  father  was  amused  when  I  told  him  how  disagreeable  I  had  found  the  pageant.  I  wanted  him  to  know  that  I  still  thought  highly  of  Mrs.  Rogers  in  spite  of  it,  soI  added  an  account  of  her  belief  in  cheerfulness  at  all  costs  and  her  dislike  of  complaint  and  whining.  My  father  wasn't  as  impressed  as  I  had  sup-  posed  he  would  be.  He  said,  &quot;That's  all  right  as  far  as  it  goes,  and  in  an  emer-  gency  it  could  be  all  a  man  needs.&quot;  I  was  disappointed  with  this  remark.  I  didn't  follow  what  he  meant,  and  I  couldn't  persuade  him  to  expand  on  it.  THE  June  I  graduated,  Dr.  Rogers  died.  He  collapsed  without  warn-  ing  during  evensong,  and  died  of  a  brain  hemorrhage  an  hour  or  two  later.  I  had  already  gone  home  for  the  summer.  I  heard  it  announced  over  the  radio.  There  was  a  special  broadcast  program  the  next  day,  with  excerpts  from  some  of  Dr.  Rogers'  sermons,  and  there  were  long  obituaries  in  the  newspapers.  The  funeral  service  at  St.  [REDACTED]'s  was  conducted  by  the  Bishop  of  [REDACTED].  Through  all  the  strain  and  the  publicity,  Mrs.  Rogers  behaved  exactly  as  I  had  known  she  would-cheerfully,  and  without  any  whining.  There  were  pic-  tures  of  her  in  the  Sunday  press  shaking  hands  with  people  and  smiling.  My  parents  wrote  to  her,  and  so  did  I--a  stilted  little  note  that  didn't  say  any  of  the  things  I  wanted  it  to  say.  Mrs.  Rogers  replied  individually  to  each  of  us.  In  my  letter,  she  said  that  she  would  soon  be  moving  out  of  St.  [REDACTED]'s  rectory,  taking  [REDACTED]  and  " b" Noah  with  her,  though  not  Mrs.  Tuck-  er.  She  wouldn't  be  going  far.  She'd  been  offered  an  apartment  on  thetop  floor  ofthe  theatre  girls'  club,  and  one  of  the  attractions  of  her  new  home  was  that  there  was  plenty  of  room  fortea  parties.  She  intended  to  goon  having  them  on  Sundays  as  before,  and  she  hoped  I  would  come  often.  I  fully  intended  to  go.  I  also  intend-  ed  to  write  to  Mrs.  Rogers  again  and  ask  her  to  goon  playing  the  bells.  I  knew  that  of  course  this  would  depend  on  whether  or  not  the  new  rector  want-  ed  her  to  play  them,  but  I  assumed  he  wouldn't  change  established  customs  right  away.  But  my  letter  never  got  written,  and  if  there  were  other  people  who  meant  to  ask  Mrs.  Rogers  the  same  thing,  they  must  have  forgotten  to  write,  too.  After  Dr.Rogers  died,  there  was  no  more  No\xc3\xa9l  Coward  music  on  St.  [REDACTED]'s  bells."