 b"EVERY  evening  of  the  summer,  lanterns  were  hung  from  the  oleanders  and  they  had  dinner  in  the  garden.  The  table  was  a  long  and  rickety  affair  on  trestles,  and  there  were  always  insects  because  of  the  lights,  but  on  balance  it  was  worth  it.  The  evenings  were  cool  even  after  the  August  days,  which  recorded  heat,  long  after  dark,  in  the  villa's  outer  walls.  The  wall  fac-  ing  onto  this  terrace-garden  was  still  warm  to  the  touch,  although  it  was  past  nine  o'clock  and  Signora  Ricciardi  and  her  guests  were  sitting  down  to  dinner.  The  scene,  too,  was  worth  the  dis-  comfort:  the  white  table,  three  flasks  of  wine,  pale  dishes  of  bread,  red  dishes  of  meat,  green  bowls  of  salad;  the  sum-  mer-colored  dresses  of  the  women,  and  a  crimson  shawl  hung  on  a  chair;  every-  thing  scented  by  flower  beds,  in  eclipse  beyond  the  lanterns,  and  by  lemon  trees,  which  stood  about  in  great  stone  urns.  Above  the  line  of  hills  facing  across  a  valley,  the  sky  glowed  from  the  lights  of  Siena,  but  the  house  at  night  rode  its  hilltop  in  rolling,  dark  countryside  with  the  purposeful  isolation  of  a  ship  at  sea,  and  people  around  the  table,  too,  as-  sumed  something  of  the  serene  anima-  tion  of  voyagers.  Bernard  Tourner  was  as  lean  and  astringent  as  his  wife,  Monique,  was  plump  and  soft-a  dove  in  her  gray  dress.  For  many  years  they  had  come  from  [REDACTED]  to  spend  their  summers  at  this  persione,  and  each  morning  they  would  dis-  appear  in  their  little  ancient  car  for  an  excursion  to  Arezzo  or  Volterra,  or  simply  into  the  Chianti  hills,  returning  as  chil-  dren  return  from  a  trip  to  the  seaside,  refreshed  and  exhausted  and  painfully  sunburned.  Bernard's  appearance  was  an  index  of  his  personality,  sensitive  and  slightly  waspish.  A  quick  understanding  and  a  rich,  ready  memory  made  him  an  ex-  cellent  companion  at  the  table,  but  be-  cause  of  his  occasional  moodiness  it  was  felt  that  Monique  was  not  to  be  envied.  However,  they  were  deeply  dependent  upon  each  other,  and  Monique  seemed  always  sweetly  and  unheroically  con-  tent.  They  were  sitting,  this  evening,  on  either  side  of  Charles  Holmes,  who  was  an  Englishman,  and  who,  from  shyness,  talked  and  listened  with  a  habitual  vagueness,  glancing  at  Dora,  his  wife,  sitting  opposite.  Dora  passed  the  wine  to  him  across  the  table;  Dora  was  dark  and  beautiful  and  not  shy  at  all.  I  2&quot;  o  &quot;CO  pittore,&quot;  called  Signora  Ricciar-  di,  from  the  head  of  the  table.  Charles  turned  to  her,  always  charmed  that  she  should  address  him  in  this  way,  since  he  was  an  amateur  and  not  very  gifted  painter,  on  holiday  from  a  business  con-  cerned  with  lead  and  zinc.  &quot;O  pittore,  have  you  seen  our  three  boys  at  all?  Have  they  come  back  yet?&quot;  Charles  gestured  toward  the  house,  as  if  to  conjure  up  the  three  young  men,  who  at  that  moment  came  hurriedly  into  the  garden  and  seated  themselves  at  the  table,  murmuring  apologies.  Eng-  lishly  alike  in  grave  manners  and  incisive  speech,  in  an  almost  womanish  refine-  ment  of  feature  and  fair  skin  reddened  but  not  tanned  by  the  sun,  they  had  the  names  of  antique  Romans:  Julian,  Adri-  an,  Antony.  With  quiet  fortitude  they  had  received,  that  summer,  telegrams  confirming  success  in  their  examinations  at  [REDACTED].  At  twenty,  they  already  offered  a  certain  distinction  and  the  promise  of  charm.  The  only  criticism  that  might  have  been  made  of  them  was  that  their  background  and  prospects  had  been  provided  so  amply  as  to  encroach  a  little  on  the  scope  of  the  present;  noth-  ing  had  been  left  to  chance-perhaps  on  the  assumption  that  chance  is  a  detri-  mental  element.  &quot;Tutto  a  posto,&quot;  the  Signora  said  of  them.  In  her  way,  the  Signora  herself  was  as  much  &quot;in  place&quot;  as  these  boys;  she  would  never  have  been  mistaken  for  a  voyager.  Sitting  at  the  end  of  the  table,a  slender,  ageless  woman  with  a  disproportionate  share  of  accomplishments,  she  chatted  and  rejoiced  and  sym-  pathized  with  her  guests,  sharing  their  confidences  and  fulfilling  their  expectations,  giving  them  a  sense  of  infinite  leisure,  as  though  these  symmetrical  days  of  summer  were  to  last  forever.  Their  recollections  of  the  villa  would  be  almost  indistinguishable  from  memories  of  her.  A  little  withdrawn  from  the  talk  that  evening,  she  was  listening  for  the  arrival  of  a  pairof  unknown  guests,  a  mother  and  son  who  were  the  friends  ofa  friend.  All  day  they  had  been  expect-  ed-a  not  unwelcome  intrusion  into  the  intimacy  of  the  present  guests,  who  had  been  in  one  another's  company  all  summer.  Though,  indeed,  it  had  all  gone  very  well  this  year:  no  one  had  been  ill  or  quarrelled  or  fallen  in  love.  They  were  all  on  the  best  of  terms,  even  with  Miss  Nicholson.  Miss  Nicholson  was  a  diminutive  middle-aged  Englishwoman  played-surprisingly-the  cello  who  and  was  attending  the  summer  courses  at  the  music  academy  in  Siena.  She  did  not  at-  tempt  even  the  simplest  of  Italian  phrases,  and  she  spoke  of  England  with  a  longing  as  constant  as  though  she  had  been  condemned  to  exile.  Most  surpris-  ing  of  all,  she  wore  a  hat  tothe  lunch  table,  a  navy-blue  sailor  hat  with  a  group  of  white  flowers  at  one  side  of  it,  and  in  this  hat  she  would  take  the  bus  to  Siena  every  afternoon  to  attend  her  lesson.  The  small,  prim  figure  burdened  with  the  cello  had  become  familiar  in  the  spiralling  main  street  that  led  to  the  academy,  and  the  instrument  was  recognized  as  a  token  of  sympathy  and  permanence,  the  antithesis  of  the  camera  usually  carried  by  foreigners.  The  boys  were  at  their  best  with  Miss  Nicholson,  who  represented  a  type  familiar  to  their  own  family  cir-  cles.  They  were  kind  and  deferential,  invariably  willing  to  help  with  the  in-  evitable  cello  or  to  find  out  where  she  could  buy  an  English  newspaper.  In  re-  turn,  she  regarded  them  with  real  affec-  tion  and  an  almost  personal  pride.  Now,  as  the  meal  began,  the  arrival  of  the  new  guests  was  announced  by  one  of  the  maids,  the  smiling,  circular  Assunta.  &quot;O  Signore,&quot;  she  said,  the  for-  mal  vocative  &quot;O&quot;  of  Tuscany  coming  oddly  from  that  genial  face,  &quot;son  ap-  pena  arrivati  da  Firenze.&quot;  Arriving  at  Siena  by  the  latetrain,  the  new  guests  had  come  out  to  the  villa  in  a  taxi  and  were  seeing  to  the  unloading  of  their  luggage.  The  Signora,  taking  up  her  red  shawl,  went  into  the  house  to  greet  them,  and  around  the  table  there  was  a  short,  expectant  silence.  &quot;Una  veechia  signora,&quot;  whispered  Assunta,  handing  around  the  pasta,  &quot;e  un  giovane  grande.&quot;  Two  chairs  were  added  to  the  table  and  two  more  places  set.  Conversation  resumed,  but  now  they  were  all  detached,  awaiting  this  diversion.  Presently  a  voice  could  be  heard,  raised  as  a  voice  sometimes  is  in  a  strange  house,  and  the  Signora  brought  the  new  guests  through  the  doors  that  led  from  the  living  room  into  the  garden;  the  two  women  were  followed  by  the  &quot;giovane  grande,&quot;  a  tall  young  man  who  remained  in  shadow  behind  them  while  introductions  were  made.  The  men  rose  from  the  table,  scraping  their  chairs  over  pebbles.  The  mother,  large  and  handsome,  was  ofthat  vigorous  type  of  English-  woman  generally  caricatured  for  its  addiction  to  outdoor  life.  Gray  hair,  squarely  cut,  contributed  to  the  strength  of  a  face  almost  grimly  straightforward,  a  directness  scarcely  modified  by  an  im-  pression  of  unhappiness.  She  was  wear-  " b"ing  a  dress  of  brown  linen  much  creased  across  the  lap  from  the  train  journey  and,  around  her  neck,  a  heavy  pendant  of  Mexican  design.  On  her  arm  was  a  silver  bracelet  of  incongruous  delicacy,  and  Florence  had  contributed  the  san-  dals  in  which  her  feet  were  firmly  plant-  ed  apart.  Names  were  pronounced  and  mis-  pronounced  to  her  by  the  Signora,  and  she  smiled  politely,  repeating  them  like  a  lesson.  She  was  led  to  the  place  laid  for  her  next  to  Bernard  and  settled  into  it.  Her  son's  name  was  Harold.  He  stepped  forward  into  the  circle  of  light  to  be  introduced  and  stood  silent  while  chairs  were  shuffled  along  the  table  to  accommodate  him.  The  three  boys,  now  reseated,  looked  him  over  with  courte,  ous  reserve,  exercising  that  perception  for  affinities  and  failings  with  which  public-school  life  had  endowed  them.  This  boy  had  none  of  their  diffident  grace.  Long-limbed  and  excruciatingly  awkward,  he  was  still,  at  their  age,  almost  grotesquely  adolescent.  He  was  very  brown,  and  dressed  in  khaki  trou-  sers  and  a  blue  shirt  with  rolled  sleeves,  and  scratches  on  his  arms  were  blotched  with  that  purple  antiseptic  upon  which  British  mothers  place  such  reliance.  His  blond  hair  and  eyebrows,  sun-bleached  to  a  startling  fairness,  contributed  to  a  look  of  vacancy  that  really  began  at  wide-spaced,  wide-staring  eyes.  On  his  behalf,  certainly,  there  would  be  no  telegraphed  confirmation  of  out-  standing  performance  in  examinations;  rather,  one  imagined  an  education  in-  terspersed  with  letters  from  school  principals,  sympathetic  and  unyielding:  &quot;Harold's  gifts  are  not  suited  to  the  dis-  cipline  of  the  school  curriculum.&quot;  Stumbling  to  his  chair  with  an  em-  barrassed  acknowledgment  of  greet-  ings,  he  sat  down  next  to  Dora.  His  mother  was  already  embarked  on  an  easy  tide  of  conversation  concerned  with  her  journey.  &quot;So  hot  in  Florence  ...  a  little  tired,  yes,  but  what  a  beautiful  journey  ...  light  most  of  the  way  ...  Lovely  country  ...&quot;  Bernard  was  helping  her  to  pasta.  &quot;Yes,  it's  a  journey  one  never  tires  of,  that  trip  from  Florence  to  Siena.&quot;  &quot;So  much  to  see,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;'That  scenery,  sometimes  vast  and  sometimes  almost  in  miniature,  like  a  fairy  tale....  A  great  fortress  quite  near  here,  what  would  that  be?&quot;  \xc2\xabThat  was  probably  Monteriggioni,&quot;  replied  Bernard.  &quot;It's  from  the  thir-  teenth  century.  But  Tuscany  is  crowded  with  these  hilltop  fortresses  and  walled  towns.&quot;  'Tomorrow  you  will  see  another,     just  below  the  house,&quot;  the  Signora  told  her.  &quot;Montacuto.  It  was  ruined  by  Barbarossa.&quot;  &quot;So  hard  to  associate  violence  with  this  countryside,&quot;  the  new  guest  said,  and  sighed,  comforted  by  antiquity.  &quot;It  isn't  all  as  remote  as  that,&quot;the  Signora  said.  &quot;In  the  last  war  the  front  passed  through  here.  The  Germans  were  in  this  house.&quot;  &quot;'You  see  how  it  is,&quot;  said  Bernard,  with  a  faint  smile.  &quot;In  this  country  ev-  erything  has  been  done,  as  it  were  even  this  landscape  has  been  done  to  the  point  where  one  becomes  a  detail  in  a  canvas.  And  they  all  know  too  much.  In  4974616c79  one  is  almost  too  much  atease,  toowell  understood;  all  summer  here  I  feel  that  nothing  new  can  happen,  nothing  can  surprise  or  call  our  capaci-  ties  into  question,  that  none  of  us  can  add  anything.&quot;  &quot;Does  this  mean  we  shan't  see  you  here  next  year?&quot;  asked  Dora,  laughing  because  Bernard  had  come  there  for  so  many  years.  Bernard  laughed,  too.  &quot;Well,  you  English,  you  find  a  sort  of  prodigality  &gt;  here,  too-an  easy  acceptance  which  you  enjoy  but  which,  after  all,  you  don't  wish  to  emulate.&quot;  &quot;You  mean  that  we  have  scruples  about  giving  but  none  about  receiving?&quot;  Charles  asked.  &quot;Not  even  that,&quot;  Bernard  said.  &quot;I  simply  mean  that  in  our  countries  one  must  still  be  prepared  for  a  few  surprises,  but  here  all  experience  is  repetition,  and  that  gives  one  an  outrageous  sense  of  proportion.  'That's  why  we  feel  so  com-  fortable-why  we  find  it  so  attractive  to  come  here.  After  all,  [REDACTED]  is  cer-  tainly  as  beautiful  as  this'&quot;-Bernard  included  the  Italian  peninsula  ina  brief  gesture.  &quot;And  England,&quot;  said  Miss  Nichol-  son,  misunderstanding.  &quot;Well,  it  isn't  a  competition,  after  all,&quot;  replied  Charles,  filling  her  wine-  glass.  &quot;Do  you  know  [REDACTED],  Miss  Nicholson?&quot;  Miss  Nicholson  replied  that  she  did  not,  adding  that  she  had  been  there  sev-  eral  times.  The  new  guest  remarked  that  she  knew  [REDACTED]  well  but  that  this  was  her  " b"first  visit  to  4974616c79,  and  took  the  oppor-  tunity  to  resume  her  account  of  it.  Yes,  Florence  was  lovely,  lovely,  but  a  week  was  nothing,  one  must  go  back.  ''There  is  too  much,  far  too  much,&quot;  she  added  accusingly.  With  a  forkful  of  salad  she  indicated  infinite  riches.  &quot;And  you.&quot;  Dora  turned  to  the  boy  beside  her.  &quot;What  did  you  think  of  Florence?&quot;  He  stared  at  her  uneasily,  shifting  his  feet  on  the  pebbles  beneath  the  table.  His  mother's  face  clouded  with  a  recognizable  intensification  of  the  dis-  content  already  seen  there.  &quot;He  scarcely  saw  anything  of  Florence,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  wouldn't  even  have  seen  the  cathedral  if  I  hadn't  insisted  on  it.&quot;  &quot;I  had  to  do  some  work,&quot;  he  mur-  mured.  His  mother  appealed  to  the  table.  &quot;Such  an  opportunity  at  his  age.  One  would  think  he'd  make  the  most  of  it.&quot;  She  gave  the  three  boys  a  covetous,  comparing  look.  Disconcerted,  they  vaguely  protested  their  own  inert  a,  not  wishing  to  appear  to  advantage.  &quot;I'm  determined  that  he  shall  see  Siena  properly,&quot;  she  persisted.  Something  in  this  prospect  seemed  to  dishearten  the  boy  even  further,  and  he  went  on  with  his  meal.  He  did  not  look  at  his  mother.  While  she  chatted  on  again  about  Florence-the  heat,  the  della  Robbias,  the  bargains  in  tooled  leather-she  directed  toward  him  a  current  of  censure  and  disappoint-  ment,  evoking  from  him  a  slow,  pain-  ful  awareness.  But  for  the  wondering  eyes,  the  boy's  expression  would  have  been  intense.It  was  a  look  that  concentrated  hard  but  could  not  quite  find  its  object.  Once  or  twice  he  entered  the  conversation,  to  express  agreement  with  an  enthusiasm  suggesting  that  he  seldom  found  his  views  shared,  or  to  disagree  with  an  emphasis  which  confirmed  that  impres-  sion.  Between  times,  he  maintained  a  state  of  subdued  apology  for  his  out-  bursts;  in  fact,  apology  appeared  to  be  for  him  an  involuntary  means  of  self-  expression.  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  he  said,  pass-  ing  dishes  or  reaching  h's  daubed  arm  for  the  salt;  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  as  his  wine-  glass  was  refilled.  His  self-effacement  was,  in  its  way,  demanding;  his  youth,  his  gaucheness  called  up  a  collective  ef-  fort  of  reassurance  and  encouragement,  but  he,  in  a  sense,  was  proving  the  stronger  character.  As  the  evening  drew  on,  his  ineptitude  pervaded  them  all.  Signora  Ricciardi  always  left  the  table  early,  to  negotiate  with  the  cook  the  meals  for  the  following  day.  At  this  interruption,  Harold's  mother  rose,  too,  tired  from  her  long  day,  and  nodded  around  the  table.  &quot;Don't  stay  up  late,&quot;  she  told  Harold,  who  stood  to  wish  her  good  night.  &quot;You  know  how  tired  you  ares,  This  knowledge  passively  acquired,  Harold  prepared  to  hurry  with  his  fruit.  Dispelling  a  momentary,  hopeful  silence,  the  other  guests  encouraged  him  to  stay,  describing  to  him  the  house  and  its  sur-  roundings,  proposing  excursions  into  the  town.  They  listed  for  him  the  attrac-  tions  of  Siena,  from  to  post  office,  and  he  listened  diligently,  lean-  ing  forward  and  twisting  his  navkin  about  his  fingers.  He  was  taking  them  and  their  attentions  very  seriously,  al-  most  as  seriously  as  hetook  himself.  A  burden  of  compulsory  activities  could  be  seen  mounting  in  his  imagination,  al-  though  he  might  easily  have  guessed  that  those  hot  days  would  dwindle  into  a  catalogue  of  churches  unvisited  and  pictures  unsurveyed.  At  last,  with  an  effort,  he  mentioned  anxiously  that  he  intended  to  keep  part  of  the  day  free  for  his  work.  &quot;You  must  be  studying?&quot;  asked  Dora.  &quot;No,  no,  I'm  not  studying  anything  now.&quot;  &quot;What  is  your  work  then?&quot;  &quot;I  mean  my  writing.&quot;  &quot;Writing?&quot;  More  vulnerable  than  ever,  he  glanced  around  the  table.  He  was  re-  peating  a  familiar  experience.  &quot;I  mean  poetry.  Well  ...  yes,  poems.&quot;  Into  the  silence  Miss  Nicholson  said  gently,  &quot;Well,  I  hope  you  will  read  them  to  us.&quot;  He  raised  his  eyes  toward  her  with  his  concentrating,  round-eyed  look,  not  doubting  her  word.  &quot;I  have  them  here,  upstairs,&quot;  he  said.  The  evening  seemed  to  have  lost  its  balance.  They  allowed  him  to  fetch  his  poems,  feeling  the  extent  of  their  indulgence  and  a  sense  of  imposition.  They  were  already  inventing  to  them-  selves  noncommittal  expressions  of  in-  terest  and  wondering  how  soon  they  might  stop  him.  Their  manners  pre-  " b"venting  an  exchange  of  glances,  the  three  boys  smiled  down  at  their  plates,  comfortably  appalled;  they  were  all  at  once  drawn  together,  dissociated  from  so  flagrant  a  breach  of  regulations.  It  was  entirely  possible  that  they  also  wrote  poetry,  but  only  within  the  bounds  of  a  fastidious  reticence.  Charles  Holmes  pushed  back  his  chair  a  little  to  stretch  his  legs  and  muttered,  &quot;Let  him  read  one,  then-just  one.  I'm  ready  for  bed,&quot;  The  boy  came  out  of  the  house  again,  clutching  a  bundle  of  papers.  When  he  placed  them  on  the  table,  they  slid  out-  ward-single,  scribbled  pages  of  all  sizes.  Seated,  he  examined  them,  rus-  tling  through  an  apprehensive  silence.  He  read  to  himself  for  a  moment,  and  his  audience  suddenly  saw  that  he  was  no  longer  intensely  aware  of  them,  or,  indeed,  of  himself,  and  that  his  face  was  unrecognizably  calm.  Even  his  arm,  resting  on  the  table's  edge,  was  curved  toward  the  papers  in  a  controlled  and  easy  gesture.  They  were  slowly  trou-  bled  by  an  ideathat  formed  among  them.  Without  looking  about,  each  knew,  too,  that  it  had  occurred  to  the  others:  an  idea  almost  to  be  repudiated,  requiring,  as  it  did,  so  much  accommo-  dation.  HEN  he  had  read  aloud  for  a  few  minutes,  the  boy  looked  up,  not  for  commendation  but  simply  to  rest  his  eyes.  Charles  said  quickly,  &quot;Go  on.&quot;  The  inclined  young  face  had  grown,  in  the  most  literal  sense,  self-possessed.  Their  approval,  so  greatly  required  in  another  context,  had  now  no  impor-  tance  for  him.  He  spoke  as  though  for  himself,  distinctly  but  without  emotion,  hesitating  in  order  to  decipher  correc-  tions,  scattering  his  crumpled  papers  on  the  table  as  he  discarded  them.  It  seemed  that  no  one  moved,  although  the  three  boys  no  longer  held  identical  positions;  they  had  separated  into  soli-  tary,  reflective  attitudes  that  conceded  this  unlikely  triumph.  Assunta  came  to  remove  the  last  dishes,  but  left,  after  a  moment,  with-  out  disturbing  them.  A  moth  thudded  against  one  of  the  colored  lanterns.  The  evening  was  at  its  best,  cool  and  clear.  From  time  to  time,  his  voice  tir-  ing,  the  boy  paused  to  shuffle  his  papers,  or  he  made  some  brief  explanatory  comment  on  the  subject  of  a  poem  be-  fore  reading  it.  When  someone  asked  whether  this  was  all  recent  work-as  though  it  could  possibly  have  been  oth-  erwise-he  replied  that  it  had  all  been  written  in  the  last  year  or  two.  ''There  are  more  all  the  time,&quot;  he  said,  and  laid  his  hand  on  the  shaggy  papers  as  if  they  had  taken  him  by  surprise.  The  wall  overlooking  them  sudden-  ly  broke  open  at  a  square  of  light,  shut-  ters  clattering  back  against  stone,  and  Harold's  mother  leaned  from  the  win-  dow.  Framed  in  ivy  tendrils,  she  pre-     49  sented,  in  metal  curlers  and  a  dark  dressing  gown,  an  altered  version  of  that  type  of  postcard  in  which  ringleted  maidens  used  to  lean  toward  one  over  window  sills.  The  boy  stared  up  at  her  blankly,  his  eyes  emptied  of  all  impres-  sion.  Without  looking  at  the  others,  she  reminded  him  that  he  had  travelled  all  day  and  that  it  was  almost  one  o'clock.  The  wall  was  abruptly  resealed.  Harold  continued  to  look  up  for  a  moment,  and  it  could  be  seen  rather  than  heard  that  he  muttered,  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot;  He  began  to  put  his  papers  to-  gether,  at  first  slowly  and  then  quickly  and  nervously,  picking  up  pages  that  fluttered  to  the  ground.  His  authority  relinquished  without  a  struggle,  he  rose  from  the  table  holding  the  bundle  in-  securely  against  him.  &quot;Good  night  ...  thanks  awfully  ...  good  night,&quot;  he  said,  and  disappeared  into  the  house  with  his  ungainly  steps.  Presently  they  heard  a  sound  like  a  splash,  a  sound  that  could  only  be  his  papers  falling  across  the  tiled  floor  of  the  living  room.  'They  gave  him  time  to  gather  them  up,  convinced  that  alone  there  in  the  half  darkness  he  was  saying,  &quot;I'm  sorry.&quot; "