 b"THE  year  was  1927,  it  was  a  Wednesday  afternoon  early  in  the  month  of  May,  and  in  my  apart-  ment  on  Horatio  Street,  at  the  far  west-  ern  boundary  of  Greenwich  Village,  I  was  dressing  my  young  male  frame  with  care.  I  was  a  reporter  on  the  World,  and  this  was  my  day  off.  I  was  as  pleased,  I  think,  with  my  apartment  as  I  was  with  myself.  'To  have  an  open  fireplace  that  burned  wood  or  cannel  coal  was,  in  those  days,  in  my  circle,  as  necessary  as  it  is  now,  in  other  circles,  to  have  a  television  set,  and  my  apartment  had  not  one  but  two  fire-  places.  The  landlord  had  made  a  one-  room-bath-and-kitchenette  apartment  out  of  what  must  have  been  a  dining  room  and  kitchen  on  the  English-base-  ment  floor  of  the  fat  brownstone  house.  You  opened  an  iron  gate  at  the  street  level,  walked  down  four  stone  steps,  un-  locked  a  green-painted  door,  and  there  you  were.  The  people  who  lived  in  the  apartments  above  me  shared  a  wider,  common  front  door  and  a  sizable  vesti-  bule,  but  this  was  my  own  door,  and  I  hadno  usefor  a  vestibule.  On  the  left,  as  you  stepped  in,  was  the  first  fireplace,  and  far  down  the  same  wall,  just  inside  the  backdoor  and  between  two  small  windows  that  looked  up  and  out  on  a  garden,  was  the  other  fireplace.  Both  had  red  brick  hearths  and  red  brick  chimneys  and  I  myself  had  painted  the  wooden  mantelpieces  green,  along  with  the  insides  of  the  two  doors  and  the  frames  around  the  four  small  win-  dows-the  two  at  the  back  and  two  at  the  front.  The  bath,  clothes  closet,  and  kitchenette  were  enclosed  by  plaster  walls  at  the  right,  toward  the  back,  which  made  the  main  room  L-shaped.  There  were  no  radiators.  Along  the  center  ofthe  ceiling  from  front  to  back  ran  a  stout  iron  pipe  that  was  hot  in  winter  and  cool  in  spring  and  summer.  Although  I  lived  alone,  I  had  fur-  nished  the  place-it  now  seems  clear  to  me-for  two.  On  either  side  of  the  first  fireplace  was  drawn  up  adeep,  comfort-  able  overstuffed  chair,  with  flowered  chintz  slipcovers  sewn  more  or  less  to  fit  by  a  cheerful  Negro  lady  who,  for  five  dollars  a  week  and  carfare,  came  down  from  [REDACTED]  when  I  wasn't  there  and  cleaned  six  days  a  week  and  did  my  washing  and  ironing.  Between  the  two  chairs  was  a  round  coffee  table  with  two  copper  ashtrays  on  it.  Beside  this  was  a  wrought-iron  floor  lamp  with  a  brown  parchment  shade.  From  there  to  the  other  fireplace  was  a  considerable  stretch  of  empty  wall  space  and  floor  space  on " b"the  left  side  of  the  room,  but  in  front  of  that  fireplace  and  under  one  of  the  small  windows  was  an  inviting  gate-legged  table  with  two  copper  ashtrays  on  it,  two  Windsor  chairs  drawn  up  to  it,  and  a  second  wrought-iron  floor  lamp  hover-  ing  over  it.  Coming  around  now  to  the  right  side  of  the  room,  the  eye  lit  upon  a  studio  couch  nestling  in  the  corner  made  by  the  jutting  walls  that  enclosed  the  bath,  clothes  closet,  and  kitchenette.  The  couch  was  double  in  size  and  had  on  it  an  assortment  of  cushions  of  many  shapes  and  colors,  In  front  of  it  was  a  second  coffee  table  with  two  ashtrays  on  it,  and  over  this  was  a  third  wrought-  iron  floor  lamp  with  a  brown  parch-  ment  shade.  A  marble-topped  chest  of  drawers  with  an  empty  flower  vase  of  cut  glass  on  it,  a  bookcase,  and  a  Victrola  were  all  there  was  after  that,  and  what  more  could  I  need  or  want?  I'd  moved  in  only  a  couple  of  weeks  back  and  now  I  had  finished  furnishing  it.  I  had  awakened  as  usual  at  half  past  twelve  that  day,  but  instead  of  dressing  in  a  hurry,  gulping  some  coffee,  and  hurrying  to  the  subway  at  Sheridan  Square  in  order  to  report  for  work  far  downtown  on  Park  Row  at  one  o'clock,  I'd  dozed  a  while  longer  and  then  put  on  a  bathrobe,  built  a  small  wood  fire  in  the  second  fireplace,  and  dawdled  over  a  breakfast  of  hot  cinnamon  buns,  butter,  jam,  and  coffee.  Sitting  in  one  of  the  Windsor  chairs  at  the  gate-legged  table,  I'd  again  looked  over  the  morning  paper  I'd  brought  home  with  me  the  night  be-  fore  and  read  again  and  again  a  sob  story  about  a  penniless  family  on  the  lower  East  Side  that  I'd  written  and  that  hadn't  been  changed  much  by  the  copy  desk.  Then  I  shaved  and  bathed,  put  on  a  summer-weight  B.V.D.  union  suit,  clocked  silk  socks,  garters,  and  cordovan  shoes,  and  went  to  the  clothes  closet  that  held  my  wardrobe.  There  I  also  daw-  dled,  making  up  my  mind  whether  to  wear  the  light-gray  flannel  suit  or  the  dark-blue  cheviot.  Having  decided  on  the  gray,  I  selected  a  yellow-figured  foulard  necktie,  and  from  the  chest  of  drawers  took  out  a  white  oxford  shirt  that  had  a  soft  collar  attached  to  it-  a  new  style  of  shirt  with  which,  as  fast  asI  could  afford  to,  I  was  replacing  the  older  white  shirts  that  went  with  my  collection  of  sharp-pointed  and  stiffly  starched  Arrow  collars.  Finally,  I  put  on  my  hard  straw  hat  with  its  blue-and-  crimson  striped  band,  picked  up  my  yel-  low  Malacca  walking  stick,  and  stepped  through  my  green-painted  door  into  the  sunlight  of  Horatio  Street.  I  had  no  plans,.  I  needed  none.  I  was  twenty-  two  years  old,  this  was  my  free  day,  and " b"the  city  I  loved  and  had  only  lately  come  to  live  in  was  abright  mystery  spread  out  before  me.  Swinging  my  stick,  I  sauntered  east-  ward,  but  paused  at  the  corner  when  an  elderly  Italian  man,  leading  a  horse-  drawn  cart,  held  out  to  me  with  a  smile  a  boutonni\xc3\xa9re  ofthree  cornflowers.  The  price  was  five  cents,  and  for  a  total  of  seventy-five  cents  I  bought  the  corn-  flowers  and  two  bunches  of  white  tulips.  I  stuck  the  cornflowers  in  my  button-  hole  and  took  the  tulips  back  to  my  apartment.  After  putting  them  in  the  cut-glass  vase  and  filling  it  with  water,  I  tried  them  out  on  the  gate-legged  table,  on  the  coffee  table  in  frontof  the  first  fireplace,  and  on  the  coffee  table  in  front  of  the  couch.  I  chose  the  last  place  and  on  an  impulse  switched  on  that  floor  lamp  so  that  its  beam  shone  down  on  the  tulips.  Then  I  was  on  my  way  again.  HAT  thoughts,  what  dreams,  were  in  my  head  and  heart?  I've  found  that  the  memories  of  thoughts  and  dreams  soon  grow  dim  or  vanish;  it  is  the  memories  of  actions  that  endure  forever.  And  the  picture  that  comes  back  to  me  so  fresh  and  clear,  as  if  I  were  watching  something  outdoors  be-  yond  my  window  this  very  day,  is  the  picture  ofthe  pretty  girl  stepping  onto  an  open  and  almost  empty  streetcar  at  Sheridan  Square  on  that  afternoon  long  ago,  and  the  streetcar  starting  off  toward  Sixth  [REDACTED],  and  me  running  after  it  and  jumping  onto  it  so  that  the  girl  'd  just  glimpsed  wouldn't  go  rid-  ing  eastward  out  of  my  life.  I'd  stopped  at  a  newsstand  on  Sheri-  dan  Square  to  buy,  for  a  half  dollar,  that  month's  copy  of  H.  L.  Mencken's  American  Mercury;  I  had  one  at  home,  along  with  every  other  month's  copy,  but  with  an  idle  afternoon  ahead  of  me,  which  would  probably  include  a  late  lunch  and  a  couple  of  glasses  of  wine  at  one  of  my  favorite  speakeasies,  I  felt  the  need  of  the  familiar  green  badge  of  sophistication  under  my  arm  or  at  my  elbow.  Standing  outside  the  news-  stand,  I  was  filling  my  eyes  with  the  wide  open  space  made  by  the  spraddling  intersection  of  Seventh  [REDACTED],  Chris-  topher  Street,  Grove  Street,  Washing-  ton  Place,  and  [REDACTED]  Fourth  Street,  with  the  attractive  angles  of  red  brick  houses  and  the  small  green  square  in  front  of  me,  when  I  saw  the  open  streetcar  stop  and  the  girl  get  on.  Like  me,  she  looked  as  if  she  was  dressed  up  to  go  some-  where.  She  had  on  a  white  pleated  dress,  and  with  it  she  wore  a  wide  sash  and  a  flimsy  hat,  both  of  them  pale  blue.  Corn-colored  hair  showed  inside  the " b"frame  of  her  hat,  and  her  cheeks  were  young  and  pink.  It  wasn't  entirely  the  sight  of  her  as  she  got  on  the  streetcar,  seated  herself,  and  for  a  second  glanced,  it  seemed,  toward  me  that  set  me  in-  stantly  running-it  was  the  quick  real-  ization  that  the  car  had  started  and  that  she  would  soon  be  gone  if  I  didn't  go  after  her.  I  clung  on  the  step  outside  the  seat  she'd  taken  and  when  I  smiled  at  her  she  smiled  back  a  little  and  moved  over.  Adventure,  with  all  its  spirit,  guided  and  prompted  my  actions  and  words.  With  the  stick  hanging  on  my  left  arm,  under  which  was  tucked  the  Mercury,  I  pulled  myself  with  the  other  into  the  seat  beside  her,  and  only  then  was  I  able  to  lift  my  straw  hat  to  her.  &quot;When  I  saw  you  going  away,  I  ran  after  you,&quot;  I  said.  Other  words  and  sentences  we  said  to  each  other  as  we  rode  across  town  have  formed  themselves  now  into  a  tinkling  jumble  of  pictures,  impressions,  and  facts.  It  was  as  if  she  wasn't  sur-  prised,  but  thought  it  onlyher  due,  that  a  tall  young  man  she'd  never  seen  be-  fore,  with  a  yellow  walking  stick,  a  green  magazine,  and  cornflowers  in  his  lapel,  should  run  after  her  and  speak  to  her  on  a  streetcar  on  a  spring  after-  noon  when  she'd  dressed  up  in  white  with  a  pale-blue  sash  and  a  hat  to  match  it.  It  seemed  that  she'd  lately  rented  a  studio  nearby  on  [REDACTED]  Fourth  Street,  four  flights  up  from  the  street,  but  that  it  was  still  being  redecorated  and  she  hadn't  yet  moved  in,  and  that  she  was  now  going  over  to  apet  shop  on  University  Place  to  see  if  a  puppy  she'd  bought  the  day  before  was  getting  along  all  right  while  he  waited  for  her  to  settle  down  in  her  new  apartment.  From  the  pet  shop  she  was  going  to  her  parents'  house  on  Eleventh  Street,  where  she  was  staying  until  her  apart-  ment  was  ready.  She  seemed  somehow  to  talk  like  an  actress,  or  as  a  girl  might  talk  in  a  musical  comedy,  but  she  said  she  was  a  painter,  and  she  grinned  at  me  as  she  took  offa  white  glove  and  held  out  to  me  as  proof  five  small  fingers  smudged  with  traces  of  paint  of  many  colors.  Her  manner  was  soft  and  con-  fiding.  She  asked  me  what  I  was,  and  when  I  told  her  she  seemed  disap-  pointed,  and  then  suddenly  cautious,  which  only  made  her  seem  more  mys-  terious  and  more  desirable.  I  told  her  my  name  and  asked  her  what  hers  was.  She  wanted  first  to  know  how  long  I'd  been  in  New  York.  Two  years,  I  said  truthfully.  Then  she  told  me  her  name-a  name  not  easily  forgotten  if  one  had  heard  it  before-and  she  looked  at  me  closely  as  she  said  it.  I  didn't  think  I  had  heard  it  before,  and  I  instantly" b"wondered  why  she'd  wanted  first  to  know  how  long  I'd  been  in  New  York.  Gazing  into  her  wide  eyes,  which,  like  her  sash,  her  hat,  and  my  cornflowers,  were  pale  blue,  I  saw  beyond  them  the  clipping  library-the  morgue-of  the  W  orld,  where  the  life  stories  of  most  people  with  names  one  might  have  heard  before  were  filed  away  in  envelopes  full  of  clippings,  some  old  and  some  new.  We  stopped  at  thepet  shop  and  spoke  to  her  puppy-a  French  bulldog-  and  from  there  we  walked  to  her  parents'  house  on  Eleventh  Street  just  off  Fifth  [REDACTED].  I  left  her  in  front  of  it.  On  the  way  there,  she'd  light-  heartedly  agreed  to  meet  me  at  a  speak-  easy  called  Julius's,  not  far  from  Sheri-  dan  Square,  at  six  o'clock.  HAT  manner  of  man  was  I,  any-  way?  Half  newspaper  reporter,  I  suppose,  and  half  lover;  or  possibly  entirely  a  lover,  who  was,  like  all  lovers,  full  of  a  questing  curiosity.  From  Eleventh  Street  I  walked  rapidly  to  the  nearest  drugstore,  had  a  quick  sand-  wich  and  a  cup  of  coffee,  and  then  took  the  subway  down  to  the  gold-domed  Pulitzer  Building.  There  friends  of  mine  asked  me  what  I  was  doing  in  the  office  on  my  day  off,  and  I  told  them  I  was  working  on  some  Sunday  stuff;  and  there,  under  her  name  in  the  morgue,  I  came  upon  her  secret.  It  wasn't  a  very  long  life  story,  but  there  were  quite  a  few  clippings,  mostly  from  the  Hearst  papers  and  the  Evening  Graphic.  The  name  she'd  told  me,  it  seemed,  was  her  maiden  name.  Five  years  before  this  month  of  May,  when  she  was  seventeen  and  going  to  a  finish,  ing  school  on  the  upper  East  Side,  she'd  eloped  after  midnight  one  Saturday  from  her  home  on  Eleventh  Street  with  a  man  whom  the  tabloids  described  as  a  middle-aged  man-about-town.  She'd  been  traced  to  Atlantic  City  by  her  parents  a  few  days  later  and  brought  back  home,  and  the  marriage  had  even-  tually  been  annulled.  Her  parents  had  been  clever  enough,  evidently,  to  elude  the  newspaper  photographers,  if  not  the  reporters,  both  at  Atlantic  City  and  on  Eleventh  Street.  There  was  only  one  photograph  in  the  clipping  envelope.  This  was  of  a  schoolgirl  riding  a  white  horse  at  a  horse  show  in  Madison  Square  [REDACTED].  From  under  a  tight  black  rid-  ing  hat  poked  wisps  of  pale  hair,  and  under  them,  looking  laughingly  into  my  eyes,  were  the  wide  eyes  I'd  grown  to  love  with  all  my  heart.  At  half  past  five,  she  wasn't  in  Julius's,  nor  was  shethere  at  six.  Six-  fifteen  came  and  went,  and  six-twenty.  And  then  she  walked  in.  She  hadn't  " b"changed.  It  was  as  if  she  felt-as  I  did-  that  the  white  dress  with  the  sash  and  flimsy  hat  of  pale  blue  should  never  in  this  world  be  changed  for  any  other.  Standing  at  the  crowded  bar,  we  drank  Tom  Collinses  and  laughed  and  talked,  and,  sitting  against  the  wall  at  a  table  for  two,  with  a  red-and-white  checked  tablecloth  on  it,  we  laughed  and  talked  and  consumed  with  young  appetites  all  the  antipasto,  all  the  broiled  chicken,  all  the  good  Italian  bread  and  good  red  wine  they  brought  us,  followed  by  hot  zabaglione  and  black  coffee  and  an  am-  ber  liqueur  the  waiter  told  us  was  called  Flowers  of  the  Alps.  We  told  each  other  many  things,  butnot  all  things.  She  clung  to  her  secret,  and  I  did  not  tell  her  it  was  also  mine.  Her  mystery,  like  that  of  the  city  around  us,  was  bright,  and  my  possession  of  it  gave  me  unaccus-  tomed  courage.  It  was  an  attribute  she  seemed  to  admire.  She  jokedabout  the  childish  ways  of  what  she  called  the  young  Babbitts  of  Wall  Street,  men  who  must  be,  she  said,  about  the  same  age  I  was,  and  who  sold  bonds  for  a  living  and  talked  of  little  else.  She  asked  my  age  and  I  told  her  what  it  was;  I  asked  her  how  old  she  was  and  she  falsely  con-  fessed  that  she  was  nineteen.  I  told  her  she  was  bewitching  and  she  said  she  liked  the  way  I  smiled  at  her  and  would  never  as  long  as  she  lived  forget  how  I'd  leaped  from  that  sidewalk  on  Sheridan  Square  and  burst  into  speed  in  pursuit  of  her  streetcar.  We  spoke  of  serious  things.  We  spoke  of  Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay  and  the  candle  that  burned  at  both  ends  and  gave  a  lovely  light.  When  we  finished  dining,  dusk  had  come  to  the  city.  It  seemed  not  to  occur  to  her  to  question  where  we  would  go  then.  It  was  arm  in  arm  that  we  walked  west-  ward  to  Horatio  Street  and  unlocked  the  green-painted  door,  and  inside  it  glowed  the  white  tulips  on  the  coffee  table  under  the  wrought-iron  floor  lamp."