 b"ON  a  Monday  forenoon  four  or  O  five  years  ago,  a  well-fleshed,  convivial  friend  of  mine,  re-  turning  from  an  intemperate  Nantucket  weekend,  found  himself  at  a  very  low  ebb  in  New  Bedford.  It  was  raining  cats  and  dogs,  he  had  a  grisly  hangover,  and  he  had  missed  his  [REDACTED]  train  connection,  necessitating  a  seven-hour  wait.  Desperate  for  diversion,  he  re-  called  mention  of  a  unique  whaleship  on  view  at  the  Bourne  Whaling  Museum  and,  prompted  by  despair  rather  than  nautical  curiosity,  decided  to  pay  it  a  visit.  Whether  he  knew  that  the  vessel  was  a  half-sized  replica  didn't  emerge  from  his  subsequent  chaotic  account,  but,  once  aboard  her,  he  began  to  ex-  perience  palpable  tremors.  'The  rigging,  longboats,  and  deck  gear  seemed  dispro-  portionate-Lilliputian,  in  fact-and,  as  he  squeezed  down  the  hatchway  to  the  officers'  quarters,  instinct  warned  him  that  he  was  compounding  a  disaster.  The  premonition  was  correct;  as  he  ducked  to  enter  the  captain's  cabin,  his  forehead  collided  with  the  lintel  and  he  pitched  forward  heavily  onto  his  knees.  When  his  eyes  returned  to  focus,  they  caught  sight  of  a  bunk  barely  three  feet     long,  a  tiny  pillow  at  one  end,  and  a  bijou  copy  of  Bowditch's  &quot;Practical  Naviga-  tor&quot;  spread  open  on  the  counterpane.  It  was  the  thought  of  the  skipper's  half-  sized  head  reclining  on  the  half-sized  pillow,  asserted  my  friend,  that  undid  him.  With  a  shriek,  he  clawed  his  way  up  the  ladder,  hurdled  the  bulwarks  like  a  Thomson's  gazelle,  and  sped  back  through  the  downpour  to  the  railroad  station.  The  incident  lay  encapsulated  in  my  memory  until  a  while  back  when  an  ad-  vertisement  in  the  Times  for  Wallachs,  a  chain  of  men's  clothiers,  broadcast  further  word  of  a  shrinking  universe.  Announcing  a  window  display  of  thirty-  one  small  models  of  United  [REDACTED]  Pres-  idents,  it  supplied  the  following  apoc-  rypha  on  their  origin:  &quot;Back  in  the  thirties,  Paramount  Pictures  needed  a  complete  cavalcade  of  Presidents  for  use  in  a  film.  'They  had  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  to  get  the  models  made  at  a  reputed  cost  of  $20,000.  After  the  picture  was  fin-  ished  (we  haven't  yet  been  able  to  dis-  cover  the  name  of  it),  the  models  were  sold  to  an  enterprising  gent  who  toured  the  country  with  them.  .  ..  It  is  true,&quot;  conceded  Wallachs,  scrupulously  acknowledging  another  distinctive  collec-  tion,  &quot;that  they  are  not  as  big  as  Mme.  [REDACTED]'s  figures.  They're  about  one-  third  life  size,  which  adds  to  their  fas-  cination.&quot;  Perhaps  &quot;fascination&quot;  wasn't  the  most  felicitous  word  for  the  copy-  writer  to  have  chosen;  the  secondary  meaning  of  its  verb  is,  I  discover,  &quot;to  deprive  of  the  power  of  resistance,  as  through  terror.&quot;&quot;  If  this  was  indeed  the  effect  of  the  wee  manikins,  the  sidewalk  outside  Wallachs,  dotted  with  petrified  people,  must  havebeen  a  memorable  sight.  It  was  the  double-talk  about  that  Paramount  film  the  models  were  made  for,  though,  that  really  brought  me  up  short.  Why,  if  the  picture  was  finished,  was  Wallachs  unable  to  discover  its  name?  'There  was  a  furtive  connotation  in  the  phrase--an  implication  that,  like  Holmes'  Giant  Rat  of  Sumatra,  it  was  a  story  for  which  the  world  was  not  yet  prepared.  The  longer  I  thought  about  it,  the  less  credible  it  became.  After  all,  how  many  movies  embodying  cavalcades  of  little  American  Presidents  had  [REDACTED]  produced?  I  seriously  wondered  if  Wallachs  hadn't,  soto  speak,  confected  the  yarn  out  of  whole  cloth.  And  then,  abruptly,  a  long-shut-  tered  casement  in  my  past  flew  open,  and  I  was  pitchforked  back  a  quarter  century  to  the  Paramount  lot-to  Archibald  Spontoon  and  his  voluptuous  private  secretary,  Helga  Nethersole.  The  dozen  producers  functioning  at  that  studio  in  1935  fell  into  two  catego-  riee-&quot;showmen&quot;  and  &quot;college-bred&quot;  executives.  The  showmen,  Neander-  thal  and  subhuman  types  who  stumped  around  on  their  knuckles,  turned  out  &quot;meat-and-potatoes&quot;'  pictures-i.e.,  program  movies  with  basic  themes  like  mother  love,  Navy  heroics,  and  canine  loyalty.  Their  literacy  was  minimal;  they  hadenough  schooling  to  compre-  hend  trade  papers  and  the  digests  pre-  pared  by  the  story  department,  but  they  privately  considered  learning  effete  and  anyone  who  possessed  it  asexual  devi-  ant.  'Three  of  the  dozen  producers  ex-  cited  particular  suspicion  among  their  colleagues  because  they  held-or,  more  properly,  flaunted-college  diplomas.  These  peppered  their  speech  with  poly-  syllables,  sponsored  movies  built  around  psychoanalysis  and  similar  unwholesome  subjects,  and  altogether  gave  themselves  insufferable  airs.  It  was  through  the  most  pretentious  of  the  trio,  Archibald  Spontoon-possibly  one  of  the  most  pre-  tentious  men  in  the  whole  world  -that  I  first  heard  of  the  little  Presidential  cavalcade.  A  bumptious,  aggressive  hop-o'-my-  thumb  whose  expression  of  benevolence  " b"concealed  overweening  ambition  and  the  ferocity  of  a  stoat,  Spontoon  had  lat-  terly  bought  an  original,  so  called,  about  the  French  fashion  industry,  entitled  &quot;McGillicuddy  in  the  Haute  Couture.&quot;  It  concerned  an  Irish  playboy's  inherit-  ance  of  a  bankrupt  Parisian  dress  house,  and  the  plot,  a  dizzying  goulash,  em-  broiled  the  roistering  hero  in  scrapes  in-  numerable  with  his  mannequins  and  with  apaches  bent  on  stealing  his  de-  signs.  By  a  series  of  ingenious  twists,  however,  McGillicuddy  (meaning  Errol  Flynn,  of  course)  extricated  himself  from  his  troubles,  restored  the  estab-  lishment's  former  glory,  and  won  an  American  heiress.  To  adapt  this  none-  such  to  the  screen,  Spontoon  chose  Ger-  hart  Hauptmann  and  Jean  Cocteau,  cabled  them  princely  offers,  and,  receiv-  ing  no  answer,  straightaway  engaged  me.  At  our  initial  meeting  in  his  exec-  utive  suite,  he  discoursed  at  length  on  my  exceptional  qualifications  for  the  job.  &quot;The  average  writer  in  this  town  is  a  peasant-a  hick,&quot;  he  said  contemptu-  ously.  &quot;He  hasn't  got  the  faintest  con-  tept  of  what  goes  on  in  Europe-like,  for  instance,  that  Anatole  [REDACTED]  au-  thored  a  work  named  'Penguin  Island'  or  that  Joseph  Conrad  was  a  Polack.  His  real  name  was  Korzeniowski,&quot;  he  continued,  tamping  a  mixture  of  Bark-  ing  Dog  and  Imperial  Cube  Cut  into  his    Dunhill.  &quot;Now,  you  knew  that.  You've  travelled-you're  cosmopolitan.  That's  the  feeling  I  want  in  the  script,  and  nothing  should  mitigate  against  it.  It's  got  to  have  a  smell  of  sophistication.&quot;  &quot;Of  worldliness,&quot;  I  supplied.  I  had  been  out  of  work  for  months  and  was  anxious  to  make  good.  'Yes,  butnot  too  cynical,&quot;  he  warned.  &quot;I'm  sticking  my  neck  out  as  it  is,  entrusting  avaluable  property  to  an  unknown,  and  I'll  get  hell  from  the  front  office  if  it's  just  a  series  of  Coward  wisecracks.  Keep  it  down  to  earth-human.  Maybe  McGillicuddy  should  have  a  dog.&quot;  Promising  him  a  feature  that  would  at  once  tug  at  his  heartstrings  and  tickle  his  risibilities,  I  repaired  to  the  hutch  allotted  to  me  in  a  nearby  warren,  and  there  proceeded  to  give  birth  to  a  screen-  play.  Every  fortnight  or  so,  I  was  sum-  moned  to  my  superior's  office,  ostensibly  to  report  progress  but  actually  to  receive  some  additional  nugget  of  literary  infor-  mation  he  had  unearthed.  Was  it  not  shameful,  he  demanded  indignantly,  that  nobody  in  this  supposedly  cultured  community  knew  that  Herman  Mel-  ville  had  finished  life  as  a  customs  in-  spector,  that  the  pseudonymous  char-  acter  known  as  Saki  was  really  H.  H.  Munro,  that  T.  S.  Eliot  once  worked  in  a  bank?  I  had  a  strong  conviction  that  Spontoon  secretly  wanted  these  gems  woven  into  the  script,  but,  short  of  in-  corporating  them  in  a  recitative  for  Mc-  Gillicuddy  to  chant  while  the  manne-  quins  paraded  his  gowns,  I  could  think  of  no  feasible  way  to  arrange  it;  so,  feigning  renewed  morale,  I  would  thank  him  effusively  and  hasten  back  to  tend  my  nursling.  One  morning,  I  reported  to  Spon-  toon's  office  for  my  bi-weekly  session  and  found  his  secretary,  an  auburn-haired  goddess  with  a  penchant  for  knitted  jer-  sey  that  set  one's  blood  on  fire,  in  a  state  of  agitation.  Miss  Helga  Nether-  sole  (or  Ginger,  as  she  allowed  me  to  call  her)  was  leafing  frantically  through  the  Los  Angeles  Examiner.  Beside  her  desk,  on  a  bamboo  easel,  was  a  map  of  Abyssinia  speckled  with  colored  pins  de-  noting  the  relative  positions  of  the  Italian  invasion  forces  and  Haile  Selas-  sie's  troops.  Sensing  a  dilemma,  I  asked  if  I  could  be  of  service.  &quot;Oh,  would  you?  Could  you?&quot;  Gin-  ger  begged,  tears  of  gratitude  dimming  eyes  as  wide-set  and  melting  as  a  Jer-  sey's.  &quot;I'm  supposed  to  change  the  pins  every  morning  so  Mr.  Spontoon  can  tell  at  a  glance  how  the  war  is  going,  but  I  can't  follow  these  creepy  names-and  he's  due  any  second-&quot;  I  soothed  the  poor  distraught  child,  and  in  jig  time  reconciled  the  battle  lines  " b"with  the  latest  dispatches-a  not  incon-  siderable  task,  by  the  way,  as  the  latter  were  confused  with  details  of  the  Santa  Ana  baby  parade.  Before  I  could  nerve  myself  to  exact  a  kiss  as  payment,  Spon-  toon  bustled  in,  a  portentous  frown  in  the  area  where  electrolysis  had  given  him  a  forehead.  He  scrutinized  the  map  closely.  &quot;Hmm,  so  they've  tried  a  flank-  ing  movement  around  Aduwa,&quot;  he  muttered,  echoes  of  the  great  von  Clausewitz  in  his  voice.  &quot;I  would  have  expected  a  pincers  thrust  toward  Gha-  rama.  Ah,  well,&quot;  he  said,  forcing  him-  self  back  to  mundane  affairs,  &quot;revenons  &amp;  nos  moutons-let  us  return  to  our  muttons.  Any  calls?&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Paltry  arrived,&quot;  said  Ginger.  &quot;He's  at  the  Beverly  Wilshire.&quot;  &quot;My  breeches-maker,  from  London,&quot;   Spontoon  confided.  &quot;'The  only  guy  in  Europe  that  knows  how  to  design  a  decent  pair  of  jodh-  purs-he's  pacted  to  me  on  a  loanout  from  Darryl  Zanuck.  Anybody  else?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Max  Zukunft,  in  the  transpor-  tation  department,&quot;  she  replied.  &quot;He  needs  at  least  two  trucks  to  carry  the  models.&quot;  &quot;Models?&quot;  her  boss  repeated  ab-  stractedly.  &quot;''The  cavalcade  of  little  Presidents  they're  moving  to  your  house,&quot;  Ginger  explained.  &quot;He  said  they  counted  thirty-  one  figures  in  all-&quot;  &quot;God  damn  it!&quot;  Spontoon  bellowed  in  a  sudden  inexplicable  access  of  fury.  &quot;Didn't  I  tell  you  to  keep  your  bazoo  shut?&quot;  Ginger  crimsoned  with  guilt.  &quot;I-  I'm  sorry,  sir,  I  forgot,&quot;  she  stammered.  A  look  of  such  utter  penitence  over-  spread  her  classic  features  that  I  longed  to  clasp  her  in  my  armsand  comfort  her.  &quot;I'll  deal  with  you  later,&quot;  Spontoon  growled,  and  motioned  me  into  his  chamber.  It  was  one  of  those  dramatic  moments  my  training  as  a  scenarist  had  taught  me  to  recognize-a  choice  be-  tween  love  and  duty.  Here  was  the  woman  I  adored,  every  line  of  her  ex-  quisite,  rippling  form  in  its  knitted  jersey  sheath  cowering  in  humiliation  before  a  tyrannical  brute.  Ought  Ito  knock  him  senseless  with  a  single  blow  and  sacrifice  my  future,  as  would  fiery-tempered  George  Brent,  Nelson  Eddy,  or  War-  ren  William,  or  was  it  my  duty,  rather,  to  contain  my  rage  and,  combining  busi-  ness  with  pleasure,  to  woo  the  lady  and  elicit  Spontoon's  secret  from  her?  Swifter  than  a  falcon  plummeting  to  the  kill,  I  made  my  decision  and  followed  him  into  his  sanctum.  Six  nights  later,  in  a  secluded  booth  in  one  of  the  Southland's  most  exclusive  eateries,  Ziegler's  Steak  Grotto,  Ginger  and  I  dallied  over  our  pousse-caf\xc3\xa9s,  breathing  thoseintimacies  that  only  hearts  attuned  to  each  other  understand.  For  the  past  week,  I  had  deluged  her  with  flowers,  candy,  and  inexpensive  jewelry,  used  every  resource  of  a  well-  lined  purse  and  a  passionate  nature  to  convince  her  of  my  devotion.  We  had  dined  and  danced  endlessly,  attended  the  preems  of  several  hi-budget  flicks,  taken  long  hikes  through  the  canyons,  even  journeyed  to  Santa  Monica  to  watch  the  annual  spawning  of  the  grunionby  moonlight.  On  closer  acquaintanceship,  I  sorrowfully  had  to  admit,  Ginger  fell  short  of  my  ideal;  3  despite  her  figure,  which  was  just  as  inflammatory  in  voile,  M  chiffon,  organdie,  peau  de  soie,  and  dotted  swiss,  she  had  a  fundamentally  shallow  nature,  an  instinct  for  triviality  that  for-  bade  the  communication  of  serious  ab-  stract  ideas.  At  this  instant,  for  example,  she  was  expatiating  in  wordy  fashion  on  the  virtues  of  the  charge-account  system.  &quot;Inever  realized  you  were  such  a  mule,&quot;  she  chided  me  petulantly.  &quot;Sup-  pose  a  person  wanted  a  smart  cocktail  jacket  for  these  cool  evenings,  like,  or  a  fur  chubby.  They  could  step  into  I.  Magnin's  or  Bullock's,  and-presto-&quot;  'Yes,  yes,&quot;  I  interposed.  &quot;Look,  sweet,  there's  something  I've  got  to  know  if  we're  to  goon  together-some-  thing  I'd  never  dare  ask  if  we  were  just  two  strangers  meeting  over  a  sirloin.&quot;  Panic,  swift  and  unreasoning,  seized  her  as  I  revived  the  episode  of  the  little  Presidential  models.  &quot;What  did  it  mean?&quot;  I  demanded.  &quot;Where  did  they  come  from,  and  how  did  they  concern  Spontoon?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  lover,  don't,&quot;  she  whimpered.  &quot;Ask  me  anything,  but  not  that.  He-  he'd  kill  me!&quot;  Painful  as  it  was  to  withstand  the  en-  treaty  of  those  delectable  coral  lips,  that  tumultuous  bosom,  I  nonetheless  re-  mained  inexorable  and  managed  in  the  end  to  extract  the  story.  It  was  a  bizarre  yet  strangely  touching  tale,  a  record  of  human  fatuity  at  its  most  arrogant.  Until  two  months  before,  the  head  of  the  studio  had  been  a  homunculus  named  Ignatius  Brogan,  a  man  hardly  five  feet  tall.  Sensitive  to  the  point  of  neurosis  about  his  height,  Brogan  had  secretly  imported  the  cavalcade  of  Presidents  from  [REDACTED]  to  bolster  his  ego.  It  was  housed  in  an  alcove  ad-  joining  his  office-a  species  of  safety  valve  for  Brogan's  frustrations.  When-  ever  thepressures  of  existence  threat-  ened  to  swamp  him,  he  retired  into  the  mus\xc3\xa9e  and  lorded  it  over  the  models.  &quot;Think  you're  big  shots,  do  you?&quot;  his  secretaries  used  to  hear  him  cackle.  &quot;Well,  get  this  straight-I'm  twice  as  bigas  you  are,  and  I  got  ten  times  the  brains!&quot;  When,  unhinged  by  his  folie  de  grandeur,  Brogan  was  deposed  and  removed  to  a  tiny  bin,  Spontoon  snapped  up  the  collection  at  a  tithe  of  its  value.  &quot;Andnow  he's  driving  his  wife  dippy,&quot;  concluded  Ginger  tremulous-  ly.  &quot;He  stays  up  every  night  arguing  with  Lincoln  and  Grant.  He  says  he  could  have  won  the  Civil  War  in  two  years.&quot;  Well,  so  much  for  the  window  dis-  play  at  a  certain  New  York  clothing  store.  As  for  Ginger,  she  began  exhibit,  ing  symptoms  of  a  disorder  quiteas  dire  as  Spontoon's-folie  de  mariage,  char-  acterized  by  a  scenting  of  nonexistent  orange  blossoms-and  had  to  be  forci-  bly  disillusioned.  I  never  see  a  knitted  jersey  dress  but  that  I  dream-  W  hat?  &quot;McGillicuddy  in  the  Haute  Cou-  ture&quot;?  Oh,  sure,  it  was  made,  all  right,  but  in  a  somewhat  different  version  from  mine.  In  theirs,  this  swashbuckling  young  Navy  hero  who's  devoted  to  his  mother,  played  by  Alan  Ladd  (the  hero,  that  is),  inherits  an  obedience  school  for  dogs. "