 b'A LARGE  bee,  carried  by  the  A  wind  to  the  edge  of  the  Atlantic  [REDACTED],  lay  on  his  back  and  struggled  to  free  himself  from  the  wet  sand.  As  the  wind  continued  to  blow,  more  sand  drifted  over  him  and  packed  itself  around  him,  and  by  the  time  Mary  Ann  Whitty  came  along,  walking  with  her  dog,  there  was  nothing  to  beseen  of  him  but  a  tiny  coffin  of  sand  with  his  black  legs  waving  feebly  out  of  it.  This  was  on  the  strand  in  Amagan-  sett  last  April,  and  at  first  she  thought  she  was  looking  at  some  kind  of  a  sea  insect,  something  that  lived  in  the  sand.  There  was  no  color  or  shape  to  show  that  a  bee  was  there,  no  evidence  that  the  creature  had  wings,  only  the  black  legs  to  show  that  something  was  alive  andwanted  to  stay  alive.  With  a  big  shell  she  scooped  this  somethingup  and  carried  it  back  to  the  high  dry  sand  and  tried  to  turn  it  right  side  up,  so  that  it  could  find  its  feet,  or  free  its  wings  and  balance  itself,  or  fly  away,  or  burrow  down,  or  do  whatever  it  had  to  do.  But  it  could  not  stand,  and  kept  tumbling  over  on  its  back,  and  after  a  minute  the  wind  picked  it  up  and  blew  it  right  back  to  the  edge  of  the  water.  The  tide  was  coming  in.  Mary  Ann  had  a  silk  scarf  in  her  pocket  and  she  took  that  and  went  after  the  bee--she  still  did  not  know  the  creature  was  a  bee-and  scooped  him  up  again  and  placed  him  in  the  middle  ofthe  scarf,  which  she  then  tied  into  a  bag  by  its  four  corners.  Her  dog,  [REDACTED],  a  black  Labrador  retriever,  rather  fat,  had  been  amusing  herself  while  Mary  Ann  was  rescuing  the  bee.  [REDACTED]  had  raced  to  a  distant  line  of  sea  gulls  who  were  standing  sentinel  at  the  edge  of  the  water,  a  long  way  off,  and  had  destroyed  their  after-  noon  by  making  them  allfly  up  into  the  air.  Now  she  came  racing  back  to  Mary  Ann  and  they  continued  to  walk  until  they  came  to  the  opening  between  the  dunes  that  put  them  on  the  path  to  their  house.  As  she  walked  along  the  sandy  path,  Mary  Ann  looked  into  the  silk  bag  tofind  out  if  the  insect  was  ready  to  be  set  free,  and  it  was  then  she  saw  that  she  was  carrying  a  bee  and  that  he  was  still  half  covered  with  sand,  and  she  thought,  I  will  take  him  home  and  let  him  dry  out  and  see  what  he  wants  to  do  next.  Halfway  along  the  path,  she  saw  what  she  expected  to  see-from  the  under-  growth  at  the  edge  of  the  woods  the  cats  were  coming  out  to  meet  her.  They  came  out  slowly,  stretching  at  intervals,  down  the  bank,  onto  the  road,  and  then  ' b'they  all  sat  down  heavily  and  watched,  yawning.  When  she  came  close  to  them,  they  stood  up  and  waited  for  rec-  ognition,  which  she  gave  each  of  them  separately.  Then  [REDACTED]  offered  to  rec-  ognize  them  and  they  backed  away  in  disgust,  because  she  was  wet  and  salty  from  the  sea.  The  cats  all  began  to  run  for  home,  running  like  rocking  horses,  with  their  tails  arched.  [REDACTED]  was  tired  from  her  swimming  and  content  to  waggle  along  beside  Mary  Ann.  The  bee  made  no  weight  in  the  scarf.  It  might  as  well  have  been  empty.  There  were  woods  on  both  sides  of  the  road  for  a  little  way,  and  then  woods  on  one  side  only,  because  on  the  right  a  clear-  ing  had  been  made,  and  there  the  house  in  which  she  lived  stood,  but  it  stood  up  on  a  height,  and  from  it  there  was  a  clear  view  across  the  topsof  the  trees  to  the  dunes  and  across  the  dunes  to  the  ocean.  There  were  wide,  irregular  steps  cut  into  the  side  of  the  bank  that  sloped  from  the  road  to  the  house,  and  in  front  of  the  house  was  a  wooden  deck.  She  went  in  and  laid  the  scarf  on  the  table.  She  lighted  the  fire.  She  poured  milk  for  the  cats  and  lured  them  with  it  to  the  deck  and  then  shut  the  dooronthem,  shutting  them  out.  Then  she  untied  the  scarf  and  looked  at  the  bee.  He  was  still  moving  his  legs  feebly  and  the  sand  was  falling  off  of  him.  She  left  him  there  and  went  to  sit  by  the  fire.  [REDACTED]  lay  down  with  her  head  on  the  hearth  and  closed  her  eyes.  Mary  Ann  was  al-  ways  afraid  her  brain  would  boil  when  she  did  that,  but  she  spoke  to  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  opened  one  calm  eye  and  then  shut  it  again.  [REDACTED]  almost  never  barked,  but  when  she  had  been  waiting  outside  the  house  for  too  long,  when  she  began  to  lose  patience  and  feared  that  the  door  would  never  be  opened,  she  summoned  from  some  point  at  the  top  of  her  head  a  sound  that  was  at  first  so  thin  and  unearthly  that  it  might  be  called  ethereal-an  ethereal  note  from  far  away.  This  sound  dropped  quickly  into  a  vulgar,  insistent  whine,  which  dropped  without  delay  into  the  most  shameful  manifestation  of  her  impatience,  fear,  and  anger-a  sustained  squeal  so  penetrating  that  no  one  who  heard  it  ever  wanted  to  hear  it  twice.  Now  as  Mary  Ann  sat  by  the  fire  wait-  ing  for  the  bee  to  revive  or  not  revive,  she  knew  that  something  had  been  whining  at  the  back  of  her  head,  and  as  she  listened  the  whine  gave  voice,  and  what  she  heard  was  not  a  squeal  but  a  harangue  that  was  familiar  to  her  be-  cause  it  sounded  at  intervals  from  the  side  of  her  brain  where  the  random  in-  sights  that  other  people  had  had  about  her  grew  and  flourished  and  multiplied  ' b"themselves,  like  the  weeds  that  they  were.  They  had  a  weed  y  strength,  a  weedy  tenacity,  a  weedy  life,  and  the  ir  own  wee  dy  truth,  and  she  su  ppo  rt  ed  the  m,  and  she  allowed  them  to  live  and  to  express  themselves,  because  she  could  affor  d  them.  At  the  time  that  theytook  root  in  her  mind  she  could  not  af  ford  them,  but  she  accepted  them,  after  a  struggle-by  that  I  mean  that  she  made  room  for  them.  There  are  some  natures  that  can  expand  to  include  a  nyth  i  ng,  even  the  things  that  ought  to  be  thrown  away.  ARY  ANN  was  hearing  the  voice  of  her  conscience,  which,  of  course,  was  familiar  to  her,  although  it  bore  no  more  resemblance  to  her  own  voice  than  [REDACTED]'s  unpleasant  squeal  did  to  her  or-  dinary  gentle  silence.  The  bee  would  havebeen  dead  by  now.  Why  do  you  bother  all  these  creatures?  W  hy  not  leave  them  alone?  The  field  mouse  the  cats  brought  in  this  morning  has  been  living  in  the  box  you  arranged  for  it  in  the  bedroom  all  day,  waiting  for  the  darkness,  when  you  will  put  it  out  again,  and  the  cats  will  probably  catch  it  again,  and  in  any  case  it  has  nothing  ahead  of  it  but  fear  and  the  search  for  food.  It  was  dead  when  they  brought  it  in,  but  you  would  bring  it  back  to  life.  W  hy  don't  you  let  these  animals  alone?  The  same  with  the  baby  rabbits  and  the  chipmunk  and  the  rest.  Nothing  but  egotism.  Why  not  let  things  be?  Let  everything  alone.  Stop  interfering.  Nature  must  take  her  course.  ...  At  that  moment  a  great  excitement  started  in  the  room  and  [REDACTED]  jumped  up  as  though  she  had  been  stung.  No,  she  had  not  been  stung.  But  the  bee  had  collected  all  his  force  and  had  come  to  vigorous  life  and  had  come  out  fighting.  He  raced  around  the  room,  making  a  very  loud  noise,  and  tried  to  get  out  through  the  back  windows,  which  looked  over  a  green  space  that  had  a  few  trees  and,  at  the  far  side,  a  bed  where  daffodils  were  in  bloom.  Mary  Ann  opened  the  window  and  he  flew  out.  He  was  so  big  that  she  could  follow  his  flight  for  a  good  distance.  He  seemed  all  right,  and  he  seemed  to  know  what  he  was  doing.  That  bee  will  be  swept  right  back  to  the  ocean  with  the  first  wind,  the  voice  said.  You  did  him  no  good.  He  must  be  stupid  or  he  would  never  have  been  blown  down  there  in  the  first  place.  .  ..  She  went  into  the  kitchen  to  put  the  kettle  on  for  tea.  All  true,  she  said  to  herself.  No  doubt  about  it,  everything  you  say  is  true. "