 b"A TINY  bit  of  aggressive  be-  A  havior  can  be  so  good  for  us  all.  True,  it  may  lead  to  battery,  which  as  a  rule  is  going  too  far.  Battery  is  a  tort.  I  was  thinking  more  along  the  line  of  sports  and  games.  There  is  al-  ways  a  little  hostility  skulking  around  in  the  friendliest  of  us.  Dudgeon  is  at  the  ready.  Umbrage  will  out.  But  the  better  sort  of  aggression-clean-cut,  wholesome,  transformed-will  see  us  through.  Has  abus  driver  seemed  un-  courtly?  Oh,  I  know  that  knocking  down  tenpins  is  a  far  cry  from  knocking  down  him.  Still,  it  helps;  it  is  more  feasi-  ble,  and  it  helps.  Does  the  House  of  Representatives  drive  you  crazy?  Dig  your  mashie  into  a  sand  trap.  'Take  up  squash.  Sports  and  games  will  let  your  steam  off  for  you,  no  question  at  all.  But  they  are  mannerly  battles,  fought  by  the  numbers,  fought  by  the  book.  In  real  fighting,  more  often  than  not,  the  book  gets  lost;  writing  it  in  the  first  place  can  bea  waste  of  time.  The  Marquis  of  Queensberry  managed  it  for  fisticuffs,  to  be  sure,  but  even  he  never  tried  to  do  it  for  doves  in  the  nest.  No,  rules  fly  out  the  window  when  helpmates  stand  toe  to  toe,  But  now-  giving  a  lot  of  us  pause,  I  wager-  comes  Dr.  George  Bach,  a  Los  Angeles  psychotherapist  with  nerves  of  steel,  who  proposes  to  put  law  and  order  into  do-  mestic  strife.  In  a  recent  issue  of  News-  week,  he  tells  how.  &quot;Love  means  that  two  people  are  interested  in  each  other,  and  are  interested  in  changing  each  other  so  they  can  have  a  better  rela-  tionship,&quot;  he  explains.  &quot;Men  and  wom-  en  can't  love  without  fighting-it's  as  natural  as  dogs  chasing  cats.&quot;  So  far,  so  good.  Next  he  tells  his  couples  that  they  must  learn  to  fight  creatively.  Well,  easier  said  than  done,  perhaps,  but  that  is  what  they  are  paying  money  to  learn.  More  power  to  them  and  to  him.  He  &quot;asks  them  to  re-create  their  latest  tiff,  which  he  tape-records,&quot;  says  N  ewsweek.  \xc2\xab'T  his  is  then  diagnosed  as  to  motive&quot;-  and  right  there,  if  not  before,  one  stops  to  think.  What's  theuse  of  re-creating?  Any-  body  who  has  been  in  a  tiff  knows  that  he  was  right  to  begin  with,  naturally.  And  if  the  tiff  is  going  to  be  on  the  rec-  ord,  he  wants  to  make  sure  he  looks  *  good  in  it,  motives  and  all.  And  the  only  way  to  look  good  in  a  tiff  is  to  make  your  tiffee  look  bad.  And  the  only  way  for  him  to  look  good-and  he's  in  this,  too,  remember-is  for  him  to  make  you  look  bad.  And  suddenly  you're  not  re-creat-  ing  at  all;  you're  starting  from  scratch  on  a  new  tiff.  Well,  I  am  going  to  start  a  young  couple  from  scratch  on  a  tiff  of  their  own,  to  see  what  happens.  Named  Mollie  and  Joe,  ardent  readers  of  Newsweek,  they  are  wild  for  a  better  relationship,  and  they  want  to  try  this  thing  out.  After  all,  it  is  classified  as  &quot;Science,&quot;  which  is  encouraging  in  itself,  and  since  they  do  fight  once  in  a  while,  they  would  like  to  fight  the  best  way.  By  a  quirk  of  fate,  they  have  no  tape  recorder,  This  is  a  momentary  setback,  but  it  has  given  them  an  excuse  not  to  re-create  their  latest  tiff,  which  is  just  as  well.  Besides,  the  tape  is  a  mere  pre-  liminary-an  exhibition  bout,  soto  speak-and  they  are  far  from  down-  hearted  when  we  find  them  looking  forward  to  their  first  therapeutic  battle  as  they  finish  breakfast  on  a  Saturday  in  July.  Joe  plans  to  shave  and  shower,  once  he  is  through  with  his  coffee.  He  is  hoping  that  they  can  get  at  the  fight  pretty  soon  and  get  it  over  with.  Of  course,  he  longs  to  improve  his  relation-  ship  with  Mollie,  but  he  would  also  like  to  go  to  Aqueduct  for  the  afternoon.  Mollie  has  a  limp  and  dog-eared  page  of  Newsweek  in  her  hand.  &quot;The  first  thing  the  initiator  of  a  fight  must  do,&quot;  it  says,  quoting  Dr.  Bach,  &quot;is  to  go  to  some  private  place-the  only  one  I  can  think  of  is  the  bathroom-and  argue  the  merits  of  the  case  out  loud.&quot;  Plainly,  the  first  thing  Mollie  and  Joe  must  do  is  determine  which  of  them  is  going  to  be  the  initiator.  Privately,  Joe  thinks  that  hecould  kill  two  birds  with  one  stone,  if  he  got  the  chance-he  could  shave  and  shower  while  he  argued  the  merits  of  the  case  out  loud;  that  way  he  could  make  the  third  race-but  he  does  not  say  so.  He  believes  that  he  doesn't  initiate  fights,  and  he  hates  to  start  volunteering.  He  and  Mollie  have  yet  to  see  eye  to  eye  on  who  did  begin  a  fight,  once  it  is  over,  and  here  they  have  to  agree  on  who  is  go'ng  to  begin  the  next  one.  And  what  will  it  be  about,  they  wonder.  Even  that  is  hard  to  say.  They  are  at  an  impasse.  What  to  do?  Joe  is  almost  ready  to  give  up  without  a  fight,  but  Mollie  is  not.  She  is  inter-  ested  in  changing  Joe  for  the  sake  of  the  relationship,  and  she  is  prepared  to  sacri-  fice  a  little  position  at  the  start.  &quot;Let  me  be  the  initiator,  dear,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Just  this  once.  One  of  us  has  to.  It's  so  im-  portant.&quot;  &quot;Exactly  what  were  you  going  to  initiate,  honey?&quot;  Joe  asks.  &quot;I  don't  know.  I'll  think  of  some-  thing,&quot;  Mollie  says.  She  heads  for  the  bathroom.  Joe  sees  the  fourth  race  glim-  mering.  &quot;You  might  try  the  powder  room  yourself,&quot;  she  says  as  she  closes  the  door.  &quot;If  you  get  hold  of  anything  good,  come  and  knock.&quot;  And  so  we  take  leave  of  Joe,  at  least  for  a  while.  There  is  no  shower  in  the  powder  room,  and  his  razor  is  in  the  bathroom,  but  if  he  sidetracks  Mollie  now,  they'll  soon  be  back  at  the  old  rough-and-tumble,  and  he  wants  to  go  to  Aqueduct  or  fight  right.  MOLLIE,  as  we  might  guess,  is  in  a  pickle.  Newsweek  is  not  much  help.  &quot;Let's  say  a  woman  is  angry  be-  cause  her  husband  plays  golf  every  weekend.  She  must  decide:  Is  her  com-  plaint  triggered  by  her  husband's  be-  havior,  or  simply  by  irritation  at  the  TV  repairman?\xc2\xbb  Is  it  his  absence  from  home-or  the  fact  that  he  hasn't  shown  her  much  attention  recently?  And,  fi-  nally,  does  she  really  want  to  fight?&quot;  Well,  Joe  loathes  golf-can't  stand  to  walk  on  grass-so  that  won't  trigger  much.  The  TV  repairman  is  no  prob-  lem-and,  anyway,  how  did  he  get  in  here?  Mollie  doesn't  care  a  hoot  about  his  absence  from  home,  and  she  doesn't  want  him  to  show  her  any  attention.  Let  him  stick  to  his  job.  Does  she  really  want  to  fight?  With  all  due  respect  to  Dr.  Bach,  that  is  a  silly  question.  Of  course  she  wants  to  fight.  She  loves  Joe  very  much.  It  is  as  natural  as  dogs  chasing  cats.  Besides,  she  is  stuck.  She  is  in  a  fight  already;  in  fact,  she  is  the  initiator.  If  only  she  could  find  out  what  the  topic  is!  She  thinks  back  to  their  last  tiff.  Maybe  there  is  life  in  it  yet.  She  tries  to  re-create  it  after  all,  but  that  is  no  easy  matter.  They  touched  on  the  price  of  permanent  waves  and  thatof  pari-  mutuel  tickets;  on  wet  stockings;  on  David  Brinkley;  on  their  respective  sides  of  the  dresser;  on  Charles  de  Gaulle;  on  snoring;  on  the  Attorney  " b"General;  on  the  Attorney  General's  niece;  on  the  Mets;  on  polyunsaturated  fats.  How  they  needed  guidance!  But  now  Mollie  has  the  answer-they  fought  about  the  way  Joe  acted  about  corn  oil,  and  the  outcome  is  still  in  doubt.  She  skims  the  rules  once  more:  &quot;Round  one  opens  when  she  tells  her  husband  her  complaint.  Round  two,  he  repeats  what  she  said,  to  make  sure  he  knows  what  the  fight  is  about.  Round  three,  she  tells  him  he  stated  the  issue  correctly.  Round  four,  he  states  under  what  conditions  he  would  agree  to  her  wishes-and  how  mad  it  would  make  him.  And  so  on  until  they  settle  it.&quot;  Mollie  is  ready.  A  minute  later,  she  and  Joe  are  squared  away.  Both  are  wary.  Neither  knows  what  to  expect.  Mollie  still  clutches  the  page  of  Newsweek.  Joe  is  still  in  his  bathrobe.  His  cheeks  are  dark.  The  weather  is  perfect!  What  a  day!  The  track  is  fast  at  Aqueduct.  Mollie  leads.  She  tells  her  husband  her  com-  plaint.  It  is  that  she  wants  to  lose  a  little  weight  for  his  sake  by  cooking  with  poly-  unsaturated  fats,  and  that  he  was  hate-  ful-and  now  it  seems  as  if  the  round  has  ended  almost  before  it  could  begin.  Joe  knows  what  is  what.  He  counters.  He  repeats  what  Mollie  has  said,  and  Round  2  is  quickly  done.  Mollie  cir-  cles.  She  tells  him  that  he  has  stated  the  issue  correctly.  ...  No,  no-as  a  sport,  it  loses  something.  By  now,  Joe  is  saying  that  it  is  only  eggs  that  he  doesn't  like  done  in  corn  oil.  &quot;Polyunsaturated  fats  don't  make  me  hateful  any  other  time,  honey,&quot;  he  says.  &quot;Only  with  eggs.&quot;  She  says  that  she  will  be  happy  to  fry  his  eggs  in  but-  ter.  He  thanks  her.  It  is  settled.  In  four  rounds.  A  minuet.  Mollie  is  sad.  She  does  not  feel  as  if  she  has  had  a  successful  fight,  for  Joe  is  unchanged.  She  does  not  feel  as  if  she  has  had  a  fight  at  all.  How  can  Joe  apologize  for  that  kind  of  a  tiff?  How  can  she,  for  that  matter?  How  will  they  ever  make  up?  She  could  ery.  So  could  Joe.  It  is  two  o'clock.  He  feels  awful,  leaving  Mollie  alone  at  a  time  like  this.  However  .  .  .  He  mentions  Aqueduct,  lightly.  'You  know,&quot;  Mollie  says,  &quot;f  you  wouldn't  keep  going  to  race  tracks,  we  could  afford  atape  recorder.&quot;  &quot;Now,  look,&quot;  says  Joe.  &quot;It  was  you  who  said  re-creating  wasn't  important.&quot;  &quot;Never  mind,&quot;  Mollie  says.  &quot;All  I  mean  is,  it's  uncreative  and  crude  if  you  don't  do  it  right.  Newsweek  says  so.&quot;  &quot;It  also  says  you're  supposed  to  fight  fair,&quot;  Joe  says.  He  takes  the  page  from  her  and  jabs  it  with  his  forefinger.   &quot;Talk  about  uncreative,&quot;  says  Mol-  lie.  &quot;'Talk  about  crude!&quot;  &quot;I'm  two  dollars  ahead  for  the  sea-  [REDACTED];  Joe  tells  her.  &quot;TI  wo  dollars,&quot;  Mollie  says.  &quot;What  will  that  buy?&quot;  More  stockings,  I  guess,&quot;  Joe  says.  &quot;To  hang  on  my  towels&quot;  And  they  are  off,  gladly,  asin  theold  days.  The  clarion,  not  the  gong,  has  sounded.  The  sides  of  the  dresser,  David  Brinkley,  General  de  Gaulle.  F  course,  theirs  isn't  the  orderly  kind  of  tiff-the  kind  that  Dr.  Bach  wants  for  them  and  for  other  young  people.  It  takes  its  course-it  strays.  But  at  least  it  doesn't  come  to  battery  on  the  one  hand  or  to  a  mere  malevolent  game  of  cards  on  the  other.  (&quot;Some  of  my  patients  think  the  fight  training  is  too  complicated  and  artificial,  and  that  they  may  as  well  play  bridge,&quot;  says  Dr.  Bach.)  By  and  by,  Mollie  and  \xc2\xae  Joe  do  make  up,  provisionally.  They  are  very  happy.  Their  relationship  is  much  the  same  as  it  was  before.  They  promise  each  other  that  they  will  save,  save,  save  for  a  tape  recorder  and  try  again.  It  will  be  Joe's  turn  to  be  initiator  then,  and-  who  knows?-he  may  prove  to  be  the  better  one,  as  they  agree.  Even  now,  he  has  his  topic  all  set  for  when  the  time  comes.  It  has  to  do  with  the  odds  he  could  have  had  on  a  horse  in  the  last  race  at  Aqueduct."