 b'"YOUR  lips  are  sweet,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;sweeter  than  dayspring  to  the  shipwrecked  in  Nova  Zembla.  Now  what?&quot;  At  six  o\'clock  in  the  morning  any  husband  looks  like  Early  Man,  and  my  wife  considered  the  flowers  growing  be-  side  the  terrace  where  we  sat  scalding  ourselves  with  coffee  as  she  said,  &quot;Now,  try  to  get  a  look  at  the  sticker  on  Jack  Bronson\'s  car  at  the  station  todey.  This  is  the  third  time  I\'ve  asked  you,  and  I  can\'t  wait  any  longer  if  we\'re  going  to  invite  them.&quot;  The  Bronsons  were  a  couple  relative,  ly  new  to  the  neighborhood,  living  in  a  converted  barn  a  quarter  of  a  mile  from  my  own  backslidden  salt-box.  They  had  had  us  for  drinks  once,  and  the  cocktail  party  we  were  giving  a  week  hence  would  be  a  convenient  occasion  to  re-  pay  them,  if  their  politics  were  right.  My  wife  and  I,  though  firm  in  our  opinions,  are  not  intolerant  of  other  people\'s,  but  some  who  would  be  on  hand  at  the  party  were.  I  am  thinking  particularly  of  Fred  Kitzbite.  Fred  is  a  hardened  New  Deal-  er  who  regards  A.T.  &amp;  T.\'s  acquisition  of  outer  space  as  a  form  of  creeping  capitalism,  which  gives  you  some  idea  of  the  way  his  wind  sock  points.  An  equally  rabid,  or  even  a  lukewarm,  Republican  present  at  the  same  party  would  make  it  one  to  which  I  would  not  care  to  play  host.  Campaigns  for  the  forthcoming  [REDACTED]  elections  had  tempers  al-  most  as  short  as  during  a  Presidential  year.  Stickers  declaring  the  loyalties  of  the  owners  were  sprouting  on  the  win-  dows  and  bumpers  ofcars  everywhere.  My  wife  had  seen  one  on  the  rear  bump-  er  of  the  Bronsons\'  station  wagon  some-  where  around  town,  butnot  closely  enough  to  make  out  the  name  on  it.  The  mere  existence  of  the  sticker  seemed  to  indicate  a  firmness  of  con-  viction  sufficient  to  make  the  thoughtful  hostess  brief  herself  more  fully  on  the  Bronsons  before  throwing  them  in  with  the  Kitzbites.  &quot;Bronson  doesn\'t  go  in  on  the  seven-  ten,&quot;  I  said,  rising  to  shave,  &quot;so  the  car  won\'t  be  at  the  station  when  I  get  there.&quot;  &quot;But  he  comes  home  on  a  later  train  than  you  do,  so  it\'ll  be  there  when  you  get  back.  It\'s  that  big  Mercury  with  the  squirrel  tail  on  the  aerial.  Now,  check  it  without  fail.&quot;  Trying  to  catch  a  few  extra  winks  on  the  train,  I  remembered  something  Disraeli  had  said  on  this  whole  tricky  subject  of  entertaining.  The  exact  quo-  tation  eluded  me,  but  it  goes  something  like,  &quot;Anybody  inviting  a  group  of  peo-  ple  to  dine  in  his  house  must  first  sit  down  and  do  some  serious  moral  book-  keeping.&quot;  Halfway  in  to  the  city,  the  air-condi-  tioning  broke  down-a  bad  augury  for  a  day  that  promised  to  bea  scorcher.  It  was.  When  I  got  off  the  train  that  eve-  ning,  one  of  a  hundred  toilers  carrying  their  wilted  coats,  all  I  had  on  my  mind  was  a  shower  and  a  cold  bottle  of  beer.  As  I  sped  home  with  all  the  car  win-  dows  down,  I  hoped  that  the  clouds  massing  to  the  northwest  meant  that  a  good  thundershower  was  on  the  way.  &quot;Well?&quot;  my  wife  asked  when  I  walked  in  the  door.  &quot;What  did  the  sticker  say?&quot;  &quot;Damn,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  completely  slipped  my  mind.&quot;  After  a  rather  sultry  dinner,  we  sat  on  the  terrace  with  iced  coffee,  watch-  ing  those  thunderheads  building  up  in  the  distance  like  a  mass  of  body  bruises.  We  listened  to  the  seven-o\'clock  news  on  a  transistor  radio.  After  the  news  came  a  gossip  columnist  who  devoted  his  entire  broadcast  to  a  panegyric  on  the  Princess  of  Monaco  and  the  valor  with  which  she  has  resisted  the  temptations  of  [REDACTED].  &quot;I,  too,  admire  Grace  under  pres-  sure,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;but  doesn\'t  each  ofus  in  his  humble,  everyday-&quot;  &quot;Last  month  you  forgot  to  send  the  mortgage  check  and  the  bank  had  to  call  us.  Last  week  you  forgot  to  mail  that  letter  I  gave  you,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;I  found  it  in  your  pocket  when  I  sent  your  suit  out  to  the  cleaner\'s.  You\'d  for-  get  your  head  if  it  wasn\'t  tied  on.&quot;  I  lowered  my  head  to  my  knees,  so  bowed  down  was  I  with  the  sense  of  do-  mestic  clich\xc3\xa9s,  of  absolutely  abysmal  platitudes  in  which  a  man  seems  at  times  engulfed.  I  was  sitting  like  this  when  my  sixteen-year-old  son  came  out  of  the  house  and  said,  &quot;Pop,  can  I  have  the  car  tonight?  A  bunch  of  us  are  going  to  the  bowling  alleys.&quot;  He  meant  the  car  I  drive  to  the  station,  my  daughter  hav-  ing  already  gone  off  to  the  movies  with  the  other.  My  wife  and  I  went  around  to  the  front  of  the  house  to  see  him  off,  with  reminders  to  drive  carefully  and  to  go  directly  to  the  bowling  alleys  and  stay  inside  while  it  stormed,  if  it  did.  We  were  standing  at  the  head  of  the  drive-  way  watching  him  make  off  down  the  road  when  the  Bronsons  themselves  rode  by,  waving,  in  the  other  of  their  two  cars,  a  Dodge  sedan  with  no  visible  propaganda.  &quot;Out  for  the  evening,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;\'That  means  the  station  wagon\'s  at  the  house.  Now\'s  your  chance.&quot;  &quot;But  I  haven\'t  got  a  car,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It\'s  not  that  much  of  a  walk.  You  ' b"say  yourself  you  need  the  exercise.  If  you  want  to  be  New  Fron-  tier,  be  New  Frontier.  Go  ahead.  It's  cooled  off  now,  and  it  won't  storm  for  a  bit.&quot;  T  didn't,  but  I  was  delayed  in  my  de-  parture  by  a  telephone  call  that  took  a  good  twenty  minutes.  Dusk  was  falling  when  I  set  out  down  the  road,  and  it  deepened  into  premature  nightfall  as  thunder  that  had  seemed  distant  suddenly  began  to  crack  over-  head.  The  first  scat-  tered  drops  quickened  my  walk  into  a  brisk  trot.  I  tried  to  affect  the  long,  easy  stride  of  the  cross-country  run-  ner,  remembering  also  to  enclose  my  thumbs  tightly  in  my  fists,  which,  as  a  boy,  I  had  always  been  told  would  keep  you  from  getting  a  stitch  in  your  side.  The  Bronsons'  place  lay  just  beyond  a  dog-  leg  in  the  road  up  ahead.  I  surmised  that  I  would  have  to  take  shel-  ter  in  it  till  the  storm  was  over.  I  rounded  the  dogleg,  swinging  along  smoothly,  and  saw  that  the  station  wagon  was  not  in  the  driveway.  It  was  in  the  garage,  which  had  room  in  it  for  only  one  car,  the  other  being  pre-  sumably  left  outside.  The  garage  was  in  any  case  shut  and  locked  for  the  night,  I  found  when  I  galloped  to  a  stop  behind  it  and  tried  the  handle.  I  darted  around  the  house  in  what  was  now  a  heavy  downpour,  and  found  a  side  door,  luckily  unlocked.  I  ducked  inside.  I  stood  there  a  moment  getting  my  wind,  and  also  my  bearings.  My  eyes  were  not  yet  accustomed  to  the  gloom  of  the  interior,  but  a  flash  of  lightning  revealed  that  I  seemed  to  be  in  a  sort  of  utility  room,  or  &quot;dirty  room,&quot;  as  it  is  sometimes  called.I  groped  along  the  walls  for  a  light  switch,  with-  out  success.  Just  then  I  felt  something  soft  and  living  between  my  feet,  and  gave  an  involuntary  jump.  My  start  caused  the  cat-which  a  loud  yelp  from  below  proved  it  to  be-to  become  more  awkwardly  entangled  in  my  feet,  so  that  Ilost  my  balance  and  pitched  to  the  floor,  clawing  the  air  and  bring-  ing  down  with  me  what  seemed  to  be  a  loaded  clothes  rack,  judging  from  the  masses  of  garments  among  which  I  lay  sprawled.  I  extricated  myself  and  climbed  once  more  to  my  feet.  My  spill  had  landed  me  clear  at  the  other  side  of  the  room,  where,  after  some  more  feel-  ing  along  the  wall,  I  finally  did  locate  a  light  switch.  It  was  the  Bronsons'  utility  room,  all  right,  crammed  with  laundry  appara-  tus  and  smelling  faintly  of  creosote.  It  had  two  doors,  one  leading  into  the  house,  the  other  down  into  the  garage.  The  cat  was  nowhere  to  be  seen.  After  hanging  the  Mackinaws  and  things  back  on  the  righted  clothes  rack,  I  de-  scended  the  three  steps  into  the  garage.     There  was  plenty  of  illumination  from  the  utility  room,  but  I  still  had  no  view  ofthe  rear  bumper,  which  was  a  mere  six  or  eight  inches  from  the  closed  door.  By  putting  my  head  into  this  nar-  row  space,  I  could  just  barely  catch  a  glimpse  of  the  sticker  and  what  seemed  to  be  the  initial  letter  &quot;A.&quot;&quot;  Whether  that  meant  Abe  Ribicoff,  the  Demo-  cratic  candidate  for  senator,  or  John  Alsop,  the  Republican  candidate  for  governor,  or  any  one  of  a  host  of  other  candidates  for  state  and  local  offices  was  impossible  to  say.  I  would  have  to  see  more.  And  to  do  that  I  would  have  to  open  the  garage  door.  One  thing  certain  about  the  Bronsons  was  that  they  lived  in  cramped  quarters.  With  my  left  hand  I  reached  down  to  the  lock  assembly  midway  of  the  door,  turned  the  triangular  knob  of  the  latch,  " b"and  heard  the  crossbars  snap  free.  I  grabbed  the  handle  and  slid  the  door  up.  Even  then  I  had  to  go  all  the  way  out-  side  to  see.  When  I  had  popped  out,  an-  other  flash  of  lightning  brought  the  sticker  vividly  into  view.  What  I  saw  made  me  shake  my  head  asI  popped  back  in  again.  I  reversed  my  actions,  closing  doors  and  snapping  out  lights,  and  as  I  reached  the  utility  room  again,  the  storm  sud-  denly  let  up.  Even  the  rain  had  stopped,  I  saw  when  I  had  stepped  outside,  and,  pulling  that  door  shut,  I  started  for  home.  I  had  forgotten  the  capriciousness  of  summer  storms-their  habit,  so  to  speak,  of  taking  unpredictable  encores.  I  was  no  more  than  halfway  back  when  there  was  a  deafening  peal  of  thunder  followed  by  a  downpour  that  had  me  soaked  to  the  skin  in  two  minutes.  The  only  protection  from  the  rain  was  the  trees-to  be  eschewed,  of  course.  Lightning  had  never  seemed  to  me,  till  that  night,  the  terrifying  phenomenon  it  really  is,  probably  because  I  had  never  been  so  nakedly  exposed  to  it  before.  Now  I  was  convinced  it  was  splitting  the  trees  on  either  side  of  the  road  up  which  I  sped,  splashing  through  pools  already  inches  deep  and  muttering  oaths  for  which  I  could  ill  spare  the  breath.  Such  of  my  hair  as  did  not  hang  in  my  eyes  was  plastered  to  my  ears.  My  legs  felt  like  mangled  rubber,  and  a  nasty  stitch  was  developing  in  my  side,  for  all  my  care  in  keeping  my  thumbs  clutched.  I  cursed  all  women  and  their  social  complications,  and  couldn't  wait  to  get  home  and  tell  my  wife  what  I  had  found.  As  I  came  down  the  stretch  in  the  driveway,  I  saw  that  she  was  standing  in  the  front  hallway  waiting  for  me.  She  held  the  screen  door  open  as  I  stumbled,  gasping  like  a  drowning  man,  over  the  threshold,  taking  a  keen  pleasure  in  the  mud  I  tracked  on  the  rug.  I  continued  into  the  living  room,  where  I  sank  into  a  deep  chair.  I  sat  there  for  several  minutes,  coughing  and  spluttering,  my  arms  hanging  over  the  sides.  She  stood  with  her  own  arms  fold-  ed,  watching  the  water  drip  from  my  clothes  onto  the  carpet.  &quot;You'd  better  get  out  of  those  wet  things,&quot;  she  said.  I  nodded.  The  storm  was  still  crash-  ing  about  the  house,  in  a  way  that  made  one  glad  one  had  had  lightning  rods  installed  even  while  one  revelled  in  the  mad  sense  of  &quot;judgment&quot;  implicit  in  the  blasting  thunder,  which  gave  one  the  momentary  illusion  of  being,  one-  self,  an  angry  god.  She  would  get  what  she  had  coming  to  her  in  aminute.   &quot;Did  you  ...  ?&quot;&quot;  she  began.  I  nodded  again,  a  single,  curt  nod,  as  of  a  man  who  cannot  speak  until  he  has  caught  his  breath.  &quot;What  did  it  say?&quot;  she  asked  finally.  I  rolled  wild  eyes  at  her,  fixing  her  with  them  for  a  moment  before  answer-  ing.  &quot;  'Ausable  Chasm,'  &quot;  I  said.  She  looked  down  at  the  floor,  nod-  ding.  Then  she  gazed  out  the  window,  shifting  from  one  foot  to  the  other,  her  arms  still  folded.  After  a  moment  more,  she  took  me  by  the  hand  and  drew  me  out  of  the  chair.  &quot;Come  on  upstairs,  and  I'll  hang  those  clothes  up  for  you  and  get  you  a  fresh  towel.  Then  I'll  fix  you  a  nice  drink,&quot;  she  said.  Traipsing  in  her  wake  to  the  bed-  room,  I  pondered  again  this  terrible orchestration  of  people  known  as  hos-  pitality,  and  wondered  whether  the  Kennedys  sweat  as  much  blood  over  their  guest  lists  as  the  Disraelis  and  we.  &quot;Why,  what  you  found  out  tells  us  something,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  perfectly  safe  to  invite  them.  They  probably  don't  care  about  politics  one  way  or  an-  other.&quot;  OU  know  the  rest.  How  the  talk  at  the  party  got  around  to  travel  and  vacations,  and  where  everybody  had  been  and  where  they  would  like  to  go.  &quot;Next  summer,  Joan  and  I  want  to  go  to  Spain,&quot;  Jack  Bronson  said.  You  could  feel  Fred  Kitzbite  stiffen.  &quot;You  mean  and  support  Fascism?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  mean  you  think  it's  perfectly  all  right  to  bolster  a  regime  like  that  with  American  dollars?  To  give  it  your  moral  as  well  as  financial  support  by  spending  your  money  there?&quot;  &quot;Now,  look  here,&quot;  Bronson  said,  and  the  free-for-all  was  on.  It  was  a  shambles.  It  was  a  night  to  remember.  Nobody  we  know  has  had  the  heart  to  get  up  a  cocktail  party  since.  Which  is,  after  all,  something."