 b"BEATRICE,  with  three  syllables,  lives  B  diagonally  across  the  street  from  where  I  live  and  directly  across  from  the  plot  I  call  my  garden.  Beatrice  thinks  she  can  play  the  piano.  She  sits  in  a  room  with  three  huge  mirrors,  and  nods  to  the  other  members  of  her  piano  quartet;  they  nod  back  at  her  and  the  room.  My  house  and  my  garden  are  flooded,  inundated,  drowned  in  a  gold-  en  honey  gravy  of  romantic  (used  in  the  popular  sense)  music.  &quot;Painting  the  Clouds  with  Sunshine&quot;  becomes  &quot;Every  Cloud  Must  Have  a  Silver  Lining&quot;  becomes  something  about  a  &quot;golden  daybreak&quot;  becomes  &quot;Love  Is  a  Many-Splendored  Thing&quot;  becomes  &quot;He  CanMake  the  Sun,&quot;  or  whatever  it's  called,  all  with  the  same  three-beat  bottom  hand,  and  each  one  pouncing,  without  a  thought  for  key  or  transition,  into  the  next.  One  can  pull  weeds  to  this  music,  or  dust  for  aphids,  or  squash  Japanese  beetles,  and  never  once  break  the  incessant  dignity,  the  overwhelming  dignity,  of  one,  two,  three/  one,  two,  three/  one,  two,  three.  The  key  of  C:  Theme  and  variations  for  one  piano  and  three  mirrors.  Etude  for  white  keys  and  leave  the  black  ones  be.  Music  for  weeding,  spraying,  and  waltzing  in  rubber  boots,  too.  Also  lawnmowing  music.  When  Beatrice  begins  with  &quot;Painting  the  Clouds,&quot;  her  husband,  ordinarily  a  mild  enough  man,  slips  from  the  house  and  begins  cutting  his  lawn  with  a  power  mower.  Now  and  then  the  tone-deaf,  gasoline-engine  ma-  chine  comes  between  the  music  and  my  garden,  but  not  often.  Beatrice  may  or  may  not  know  about  me  and  my  garden.  Once,  I  had  to  go  inside  the  house  to  geta  drink  of  water  and  she  got  stalled  on  &quot;He  Can  Make  the  Sun,&quot;  or  what-  ever  it  is,  until  I  got  back  at  work.  After  the  religious  songs,  quote  un-  quote,  there  is  always  a  thunderous  pause,  as  though  she  had  taken  a  look  outside  to  see  the  world  she  had  charmed  and  seen  instead  that  the  sun  had  walked  out  on  her  and  that  it  was  too  dark  to  mow  any  longer  (or  weed  or  dust),  and  then,  as  though  in  a  whis-  per,  as  though  the  mirrors  had  fallen,  comes  the  single,  child  voice  of  an  early  piano  lesson  before  the  bass  notes  had  overcome  it--the  fragile,  quiet,  tiptoe  melody  of  &quot;Humoresque.&quot;  Always  the  same.  I  pick  up  my  hoe  and  other  tools,  always  the  same  way,  and  walk  slowly  to  the  garage.  Her  hus-  band  goes  back  into  the  house;  perhaps  he  says  something  to  Beatrice,  pushing  the  piano  bench  back  under  the  piano,  about  how  beautiful  the  sunset  was. "