 b"GEORGE  WEBB  didn't  know   whether  or  not  on  the  day  of  his  birth  there  had  been  an  al-  mighty  storm,  with  chromium  sheets  of  rain,  solid  lightning,  black  thunder,  and  a  raging  gale,  but  he  sometimes  thought  that  if  there  had  been,  it  would  explain  why  wind  affected  him  so-why  the  sound  of  a  fierce  wind  yelping  across  the  chimney  top  and  boring  into  all  the  weathered  boards  and  joints  of  the  house  was  enough  to  wake  him  at  night  and,  having  got  him  there,  keep  him  awake.  Or  why,  on  a  gusty  morning,  he  would  find  it  impossible  to  work,  and  would  pace  restlessly  around  the  house,  annoyed  by  his  wife  and  children  and,  in  turn,  annoying  them.  Then  he  would  stride  back  to  his  study,  sit  down  to  his  unfinished  translating,  listen  to  the  branch  of  a  tree  tapping  against  a  wall,  watch  a  pile  of  leaves  like  a  miniature  tidal  wave  go  bowling  down  the  street,  and  smoke  another  cigarette,  which  made  twice  as  many  sofar  on  such  a  morning  as  he  usually  smoked,  and  think  of  lascivious  encounters  with  oth-  er  women  and  whether  he  ought  to  get  another  bid  for  a  new  furnace  and  whether  life  was  passing  him  by-all  the  things  that,  on  a  calm  day,  he  man-  aged  to  keep  out  of  his  already  sufficient  ly  cluttered  mind.  When  he  was  small  he  used  to  jump  out  of  bed  and  run  to  the  window  to  stare  at  the  distant  elms  at  the  foot  of  the  garden.  On  summer  days,  that  had  a  purpose,  because  he  could  tell  from  the  way  the  leaves  and  branches  were  waving  how  much  wind  there  would  be  for  sailing.  He'd  know  if  a  lot  of  row-  ing  was  going  to  be  called  for,  or  if  he  was  going  to  have  a  long  argument  with  his  mother  before  she  let  him  go  out,  even  with  his  life  jacket.  But  for  some  reason,  when  winter  came  and  his  boat  was  hauled  out,  he  continued  to  make  studying  the  wind  a  morning  ritual,       and  even  now,  years  later,  living  in  the  [REDACTED]  a  long  way  from  the  sea,  he  found  himself  doing  the  same  thing,  gazing  obsessedly  at  the  honeysuckle  that  grew  over  the  fence,  checking  its  confined  motion  against  the  wobbling  television  aerial  on  his  neighbor's  roof,  and  finally  matching  both  of  these  indi-  cators  with  the  veteran  beech  that  grew  in  the  front  yard.  His  wife  was  used  to  it.  Sometimes  when  his  pacing  around  the  house  got  on  her  nerves,  she  would  make  a  remark  like  &quot;George,  you  should  have  beenborn  in  the  days  of  clipper  ships.  Then  you  could  have  furled  the  sails  and  battened  down  the  hatches.&quot;  This  in  a  sense  was  true,  because  if  the  house  had  had  shutters  and  there  had  been  no  one  around  to  think  him  an  idiot,  he  would  have  run  outside  and  thrown  them  shut,  and  propped  a  stone  against  the  gate,  which  didn't  latch  properly,  and  then  generally  got  the  house  snugged  down,  reinforcing  its  coziness,  weather-stripping  the  thin  walls  against  the  elemental  drafts  of  heaven.  Instead,  on  a  windy  morning,  he  might  go  to  the  mailbox  for  the  third  time,  tell  his  daughter  to  put  the  kittens  back  in  their  box,  ask  his  wife  if  she  had  remembered  to  invite  the  Dobsons  to  dinner,  and  then,  since  no  one  was  pay-  ing  the  right  kind  of  attention  to  him  (no  mail  in  the  box,a  kitten  dropped  on  a  hot-air  register  on  its  return  trip,  his  wife  ignoring  him),  he  would  prowl  into  the  library  and  seize  the  first  book  that  presented  itself.  But  his  restless-  ness  would  prevent  him  from  seeing  anything  more  than  a  blur  on  its  pages.  He  would  have  liked  to  be  melodra-  matic,  at  least  with  himself,  and  say,  &quot;If  this  wind  keeps  up  it'll  drive  me  mad.&quot;  His  common  sense,  however,  told  him  that  just  the  fact  of  being  able  to  think  this  sort  of  thing  and  mentally  scoff  at  it  was  sufficient  insurance  against  its  ever  happening.  Anyway,  the  mood  always  passed.  It  had  a  lot  to  do  with  his  mental  weather,  and  if  he  was  work-  ing  hard  he  didn't  notice  it  too  much,  and  somehow  the  wind  didn't  bother  him  except  at  home.  HIS  was  why,  in  the  doze  induced  by  the  soft  vibration  and  steady  murmur  ofthe  transatlantic  jet,  the  first  signals  that  reached  him  were  un-  canny.  He  was  a  long  way  from  home.  Here  in  the  plane  he  certainly  hadn't  expected  to  feel  that  irksome  sensa-  tion,  that  unwelcome  stir.  And  the  murmur  of  the  engines,  although  it  fad-  ed  into  the  slip  stream,  should  be  enoush  to  cover  any  possible  sound  of  wind.  He  had  no  real  need  to  attend  the  confer-  ence  in  [REDACTED].  Classic  texts  and  medi-  " b"eval  glosses  piled  his  desk  at  home,  and  he  didn't  particularly  want  to  chat  about  them;  he  couldn't  remember  if  he  had  answered  the  in-  vitation  of  the  confer-  ence  sponsors.  'The  trip  was  just  a  sop  to  his  restlessness.  He  looked  past  the  woman  sitting  next  to  him  and  out  through  the  window;  8  the  sky  was  ice  blue.  |  He  glanced  at  the  sign  above  the  pilot's  cabin  door,  but  the  lights  were  out-he  could  smoke;  he  could  leave  off  his  seat  belt.  So  the  words  popped  from  his  mouth  without  reason,  and  the  woman  next  to  him,  reading  a  maga-  zine,  looked  round  quizzically  and  said,  &quot;I  beg  your  pardon?&quot;  Have  I  done  this  before?  Webb  asked  himself.  Do  I  talk  to  myself?  I  just  said-  and  my  cheeks  are  burning-&quot;It's  getting  windy.&quot;  &quot;I  mean,&quot;  the  wom-  an  said  politely,  &quot;how  can  you  tell?&quot;  His  ears  were  red,  and  he  tempo-  rized  with,  &quot;Wasn't  there  a  bump  just  now?&quot;  She  looked  at  him  curiously;  then  said  &quot;I  didn't  feel  it,&quot;  and  turned  back  to  her  magazine.  The  curious  thing  was  that,  although  she  was  right,  he  knew  a  bump  would  come;  that,  although  the  sky  was  clear,  very  soon  they  would  be  in  thick  cloud;  that  the  wind,  which  was  just  begin-  ning  to  whistle  around  the  plane,  was  simply  the  precursor  of  winds  to  come.  He  sat  back  rigid  for  a  long  time,  as  if  trying  to  hold  it  all  out  of  his  head.  But  soon  enough  hecould  see  the  clothes  on  the  line  begin  to  shake,  the  branches  of  the  beech  begin  to  quiver  with  the  strain,  and  the  leaves  hurtle.  He  rose  abruptly  and  walked  up  the  aisle,  step-  ping  aside  to  let  a  stewardess  pass  with  a  tray,  and  going  on  to  the  pilot's  cabin  door.  He  stopped  there  for  a  moment,  scanning  the  covers  of  magazines  jumbled  in  a  nearby  rack.  Then  he  turned  and  wandered  back  down  the  plane,  past  the  otherpassengers  dozing,  doing  crossword  puzzles,  and  idling  through  magazines  and  paperback  nov-  els.  Their  unconcern,  real  or  pretend-  ed,  irritated  him;  they  might  as  well  have  been  on  a  bus.  He  walked  to  the  lavatory  and  locked  himself  in.  'There  was  no  window,  but  the  ventilator  nozzle  whistled  in  a  sharp  rush  of  air.  He  did  everything  he  could  think  of.  He  washed  his  hands  and  face.  Although  he  usually  made  do  with  a  quick  swipe  of  the  hairbrush  every  morning,  he  now  combed  his  hair,  using  the  comb  from  the  comb-and-notebook  set  handed  out  to  regular  customers  by  the  proprietor  of  his  local  liquor  store.  He  straightened  his  tie-small  gesture,  he  thought-  and,  as  the  plane  bumped  and  gave  a  quick  recovering  heave,  he  stepped  out  of  the  lavatory.  A  stewardess,  wear-  ing  a  highly  trained  smile,  was  moving  toward  him,  bending  over  the  passen-  gers.  As  he  passed  her,  she  said,  &quot;Would  you  take  your  seat,  sir,  and  fasten  your  seat  belt.  We've  run  into  a  spot  of  bad  weather.&quot;  The  lady  in  the  adjoining  seat  didn't  look  at  him  as  he  sat  down  and  fastened  the  belt,  She  was  staring  out  of  the  window  at  the  thick  strands  of  gray  cloud  scurrying  past;  her  own  belt  was  neatly  buckled  across  her  lap.  Above  the  cabin  door  the  fasten-seat-belt  sign  glowed  brightly.  And  even  as  he  looked  at  it  a  voice  came  from  the  loudspeaker:  &quot;Good  afternoon,  ladies  and  gentlemen.  This  is  the  captain.  We've  encountered  a  rather  strong  head  wind.  Our  landing  time  will  now  probably  be  around  nine  o'clock.  Thank  you.&quot;  How  calm  that  voice  was,  Webb  re-  flected,  but  how  genuine  was  that  calm?  The  plane  surged  up  and  then  seemed  to  drop  flat  for  a  thousand  feet.  His  stomach  took  several  seconds  to  level  out.  Over  the  whine  of  the  engines  he  seemed  to  hear  it--the  great  gusts  flooding  toward  them;  the  short,  abrupt  lulls.  &quot;I'd  always  imagined,&quot;  said  the  woman  beside  him,  &quot;that  one  had  tail  winds  going  from  west  to  east.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  said  Webb.  &quot;And  isn't  this  strange  weather  to  get  at  this  altitude?  I  thought  we  were  above  all  the  storms  and  gales  up  here.&quot;  He  remembered  a  newsreel  shot  of  a  hurricane,  the  roofs  and  trees  whizzing  horizontally  down  a  road.  &quot;Well,  now-  adays,  with  all  these  bombs  .  .  .&quot;  he  be-  gan,  but  wearied  of  it;  a  joke  at  this  point  did  no  more  than  betray  his  nerv-  ousness.  He  lit  a  cigarette  and  had  taken  several  puffs  when  the  other  red  sign  glowed  on.  He  took  one  defiant  puff  and  then  stubbed  out  the  cigarette.  &quot;It  was  very  prescient  of  you,  know-  ing  this  weather  was  coming,&quot;  said  his  " b"companion.  The  window  showed  noth-  ing  now.  It  was  black  outside  and  the  plane  bucked  and  dipped  into  the  gale.  &quot;And  I  believe  you  were  right.  You  can  almost  hear  the  wind  out  there.&quot;  She  poked  into  her  handbag,  took  out  a  small  bottle  of  pills,  swallowed  one,  ad-  justed  her  chair,  and  then  closed  her  eyes.  Out  there  would  have  been  all  right,  Webb  thought.  The  trouble  for  him  was  that  the  wind  didn't  remain  outside.  It  was  inside,  too.  He  seemed  to  hear  the  giant  plane  creaking  and  groaning  as  the  swept-back  wings  had  now  more  lift  than  they  wanted  and  then,  with  the  jolt  of  the  bottom  dropping  out  of  the  universe,  hardly  any  lift  at  all.  Nine  o'clock  would  be  an  hour  late.  A  quick  computation  told  him  the  head  winds  must  be  averaging  a  hundred  miles  an  hour.  He  watched  a  stewardess  stagger  down  the  aisle,  clutching  the  backs  of  seats  for  support,  and  pointing  out  a  paper  bag  to  a  white-faced  man  across  from  him,  who  was  looking  up  help-  lessly.  I  wish  I  felt  sick,  Webb  thought.  It  would  be  something  to  do.  Should  I  ask  the  woman  for  a  pill?  Is  she  asleep?  The  overhead  lights  were  on.  He  pushed  back  his  seat,  adjusted  his  neck  on  the  little  cushion  as  if  for  the  dentist,  and  shut  his  eyes.  It  was  always  a  ques-  tion  in  such  moments  whether  you  saw  more  with  your  eyes  closed  or  open.  Like  someone  willing  himself  to  sleep,  Webb  kept  his  lids  shut,  his  feet  firmly  planted,  heel  and  toe,  on  the  floor.  He  tightened  his  belt  by  an  inch  and  felt  his  breath  rise  and  fall.  He  couldn't  get  up  and  walk  around.  His  mind  and  all  his  senses  paced  for  him,  from  nose  to  tail,  from  wing  tip  to  wing  tip,  watch-  ing  the  ailerons  that  seemed  to  react  so  slowly  to  the  heaving  of  the  plane,  ex-  amining  the  four  engines  whose  thrust  was  belittled  by  that  of  the  storm,  not-  ing  the  metal  fabric  ripple  and  shiver  as  the  wind  roared  over  it-fatigue,  buckle,  stress,  and  snap  were  the  words,  the  sounds.  And  now  the  plane  pitched,  and  lifted,  and  pitched  again,  and  a  wing  dipped  a  long  way  down.  He  felt  the  beginning  of  a  roll  that  seemed  to  be  taking  them  up  and  up.  Could  the  wind  lift  them  forever  out  of  the  thin  air  into  space?  Could  the  end  be  up  in-  stead  of  down?  The  wind  howled  now  like  a  mad  hound,  and  light  flickered  through  his  lids  like  lightning.  Gray  masses  hurled  themselves  past  his  retinas  into  the  depths  of  his  brain.  A  long  way  back  he  seemed  to  have  heard  this  wind-the  gale  of  birth-and  if  it  had  brought  him  in,  it  could  undoubtedly  take  him  out,  For  a  moment  he  thought  of  the  bird  in  Bede's  tale  that  flashes into  the  hall  from  the  winter  night,  flut-  ters  around  the  firelit  rafters,  and  then,  after  an  instant's  stay,  flies  out  again  through  the  opening  in  the  far  wall.  Life  was  as  quick,  as  insignificant  as  that;  but  the  image  was  drowned  in  actual  fear.  Suddenly  the  pressure  in  his  cars  was  huge,  and  the  wind  seemed  to  be  tearing  at  him,  shaking  him,  uproot-  ing  him,  pulling  him  limb  from  limb.  The  dark  grew  solid.  He  rose  and  fell  into  an  immense  doom.  HE  stewardess,  a  practical  nurse,  revived  him  with  smelling  salts  and  a  cup  of  tea.  In  a  while  they  reached  land,  and  the  woman  next  to  him,  after  chewing  over  the  right  words  in  her  head,  said  gently,  &quot;Perhaps  you  shouldn't  fly.  The  girl  was  worried  about  you.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'm  sorry,&quot;  said  Webb.  &quot;Well-you  were  very  hard  to  wake  up.&quot;  The  woman  paused,  and  then  went   on,  as  if  it  didn't  have  much  relevance,  &quot;It  was  a  nasty  storm.&quot;  He  went  down  the  gangway,  and  a  man,  beaming,  came  up  to  him.  &quot;Ah,  Mr.  Webb,  good  of  you  to  come  over.  We  weren't  sure  you'd  make  it.&quot;  &quot;Really?&quot;  said  Webb.  Am  I  still  ashen,  he  wondered.  The  man  smiled  and  said  half  scold-  ingly,  &quot;You  didn't  answer  our  invita-  tion.&quot;  &quot;I'm  sorry,&quot;  Webb  said  again.  &quot;I'm  very  sorry.&quot;  In  his  relief  hecould  have  gone  on  apologizing,  but  his  wel-  comer  had  stepped  over  to  shake  hands  with  someone  else;  someone,  Webb  thought,  who  had  answered  the  invita-  tion,  someone  who  had  known  he  would  get  here.  A  slight  breeze  was  blowing  across  the  airfield,  but  Webb  didn't  notice  it.  What  he  had  been  through  didn't  need  much  translating.  Up  there  in  the  wind  he  had  at  last  realized  the  certainty  of  his  own  death-not  today,  not  even  soon,  not  for  a  long  time,  perhaps.  But  a  certainty  nevertheless.  'The  thought  of  it,  coming  to  him  in  this  way  after  what  seemed  to  be  countless  ages  of  re-  sistance  and  sidestepping  of  the  idea,  struck  him  now  as  an  immensely  calm-  ing  thing. "