 b"DEar  Alice:  Well  hon  here  I  am  D  managing  a  Little  League  team  in  Westport.  The  job  at  the  [REDACTED]  Brass  is  all  set  and  we  can  get  personaly  welded  as  soon  as  your  mother's  hip  mends  and  you  can  get  out  here.  Meanwhile  I'm  living  in  a  room-  ing  house  near  the  New  Haven  R.R.  tracks  here  riding  the  train  to  work  so  I'm  what  you  could  call  a  commuter  only  going  the  other  way,  not  one  them  Madison  Ave.  birds  carrying  one  them  lether  reticules  into  the  Big  Town  and  back  every  day.  So  hence  the  postmark  which  must  of  gave  you  quite  a  turn.  Managing  a  ball  team  ain't  what  it  use  to  be  in  theold  days  and  may  still  be  out  there  in  Keokuk.  Time  was  when  all  you  had  to  know  about  your  material  was  wether  they  could  do  something  with  a  bat  besides  supply  a  little  extra  ventilation  on  hot  days  or  pull  down  a  fast  clothesliner  off  second.  Now  you  have  to  worry  about  tension  spans  and  what  they  call  stribling  rivalry  and  one  thing  another-in  other  words  why  they  might  not  be  performing  up  to  snuff  on     the  above.  The  last  mentioned  is  when  you  have  two  brothers  on  the  same  team  as  I  happen  toof  drew.  Their  mother  told  me  they  have  these  feelings  of  mu-  tual  hostility  due  to  a  family  situation  which  she  will  go  into  with  me  in  more  detail  later  if  they  is  any  danger  of  our  not  copping  the  penant  and  that  it  was  her  experience  that  the  best  way  out  of  a  jam  was  substitute  situations.  So  I  says  how  would  it  be  if  I  always  had  one  them  warming  the  bench  to  go  in  for  the  other  if  needs  be  and  she  siezed  my  hand  and  kissed  it  and  then  went  and  hid  in  the  car  she  had  brung  them  in,  a  blue  Jag  convertible  which  the  family  have  been  driving  with  the  top  up  I  un-  derstand  because  they  are  in  mourning.  Well  kid  they  being  the  first  arrivals  for  the  opening  practise  I  got  a  bat  and  started  hitting  them  some  fungos.  'The  mother  sat  shivering  in  the  Jag  watch-  ing  the  proseedings  through  the  wind-  shield.  This  is  what  she  seen.  The  one  kid  whose  name  is  Martin  had  this  ideathat  somebody  had  ast  him  to  impersonate  a  croquet  wicket  in  crea-  tive  play  because  every  time  I  hit  him  a grounder  he  would  have  his  feet  planted  the  exact  distance  apart  at  just  the  right  time  for  the  ball  to  pass  through  with-  out  no  hindranse.  After  about  five  or  six  of  these  flawless  imitations  the  mother  came  over  to  shed  some  light  on  it.  He  has  this  will  to  fail  she  said  and  went  back  to  shiver  in  the  Jag  some  more.  I  thanked  her  for  this  piece  of  info  to  help  me  in  forming  my  first  team  and  turned  to  look  for  the  brother.  This  kid  is  a  compulsory  eater  they  call  them.  He  was  nowheres  to  be  seen  at  first  then  I  made  out  a  speck  against  the  refreshment  stand  which  at  this  field  is  about  500  yards  from  our  diamond,  one  of  3,  no  doubt  telling  the  woman  on  hot  dogs  there  to  keep  'em  coming.  The  mother  started  up  the  Jag  and  drove  over  to  get  him  hollering  out  the  win-  dow  at  meHe  fears  competition  and  seeks  ecscape  in  food  as  she  went  by.  When  the  car  was  gone  I  velled  to  the  other  kid  What's  your  brother's  name?  and  he  yelled  back  Stringfellow  and  I  had  the  case  diagnozed.  By  now  the  mothers  were  arriving  in  droves  with  their  hopefuls  by  auto  (no-  body  walks  in  Westport  unless  an  ump  gives  them  a  base  on  balls)  most  of  the  mothers  and  an  occasional  father  staying  to  have  a  word  with  me  and  there  being  enough  kids  to  keep  theirselves  busy  for  a  while  on  their  own  I  went  over  to  the  bleachers  where  I  set  up  a  small  office  to  hear  out  the  parents  lining  up  with  dos-  siers  on  the  prospective  athaletes.  I'll  give  you  my  starting  lineup  next  time  preferring  to  use  the  rest  of  this  sheet  to  remind  you  that  letter  writing  ain't  my  fort  and  that  I  wisht  you  was  here  in  person  holding  it  with  me.  You  know  me  Alice.  Yours  sincerely,  Ep.  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],.  May  18.  DEAR  A1rIcE:  Well  honI'm  writing  this  in  the  shop  where  I  got  a  little  lunch  time  left  over  on  top  of  a  crate.  Well  Alice  my  starting  lineup  on  the  first  game  was  as  follows.  In  left,  cen-  ter  and  right  I  got  three  oral  types  which  is  fine  for  talking  it  up  around  the  outheld.  On  first  a  kid  who  has  a  thing  about  sliding.  I  let  him  bat  just  before  my  two  best  hitters  so  in  case  he  gets  on  third  he'll  have  the  highest  possible  chance  to  coalchute  it  home  looking  dra-  matic  and  important  like  his  mother  says  he  needs  to  while  he  spanks  the  dust  off  hisself  to  gain  confidence.  Martin  is  on  second.  I  can't  do  nothing  with  his  brother  while  he  is  on  the  pickalily  and  if  he  muffed  one  might  head  strait  for  the  refreshment  stand  to  seek  consola-  tion  there  and  never  be  seen  again.  I  can't  take  the  responsibility.  Shortstop  " b"and  third  I  have  very  little  to  go  on  as  they  are  underpriviledged  kids  from  the  r.r.  tracks  nobody  ever  gives  no  thought  to,  just  good  ball  players  in  the  hot  spots  though  I  am  told  one  of  them  might  be  out  stealing  something  more  serious  than  second  if  they  wasn't  second  to  steal  with  the  girls  looking  on.  'The  catcher  is  a  swell  natured  kid  whose  as  broad  as  he's  long  and  can  stop  any  reasonable  pitch  because  of  the  sheer  bulk  there  is  to  get  past.  You  can  always  use  an  obeesity  case  behind  the  plate.  Now  on  this  level  hon  which  is  the  beginners  from  8  on  up  your  ever-  perennial  problem  is  pitching.  Few  have  the  experience  or  control  at  that  age.  In  making  up  my  notes  on  my  squad  a  woman  named  Mrs.  Niswonger  said  to  me  in  a  interview  I  granted  her  con-  serning  her  son  Artie  who  wanted  to  pitch  Nicknames  are  very  revealing  don't  you  know  and  they  call  Artie  the  Strike  Out  King.  Well  I  learned  through  some  side  investigation  that  they  call  him  that  when  he  is  at  bat,  when  he  is  on  the  mound  he  is  known  as  the  Sultan  of  Swat  due  to  how  good  he  can  make  even  a  kronic  whiffer  look.  I  ast  her  didn't  she  think  in  thatcase  we  had  ought  to  start  somebody  else  in  the  box  and  she  says  What  and  deel  him  a  blow  to  his  eggo  from  which  he  might  never  recover?  In  this  part  the  country  where  they  know  more  about  those  things  you  put  players  in  where  they're  weak  so  as  to  bolster  their  confidense  and  make  athaletes  out  of  them.  The  only  other  pitcher  I  had  was  no  better  than  Niswonger  anyway  so  I  started  Niswonger.  So  that  was  the  opening  roster  for  our  first  game.  It  was  with  the  Bluejays.  We're  the  Robins  so  you  can  see  we  have  a  bird  moteef  this  yr.  The  plate  ump  was  the  guidance  counselor  for  one  of  the  schools  so  hence  he  knew  most  of  the  kids'  potenshul  already  and  how  to  sound  off  the  calls  wether  loud  or  easy  on  their  nerves  and  etc.  A  local  dentist  umped  bases  for  us.  Niswonger  wasn't  no  worse  than  the  Bluejays'  pitcher.  He  walked  the  first  eight  of  our  batters  giving  us  five  runs  and  three  men  on  base  with  none  away.  The  suspense  was  unbearable-when  would  he  put  one  over?  In  the  consult-  ing  room  (formerly  known  as  the  bleachers)  the  mothers  were  yacking  it  up  amongst  theirselves,  trading  slants  on  their  sons  and  occasionally  shouting  That's  looking  'em  over!  and  It  only  takes  one!  and  so  on  from  lists  that  they  carried  with  suitable  things  to  holler.  At  this  point  the  kid  with  the  thing  about  sliding  was  on  third  and  with  ball  four  called  on  the  batter  he  came  home-an-     other  forced  run.  As  he  strolls  home  hi  s  mother  jumps  to  h  er  feet  in  the  stands  and  yells  Slide!  He  does.  He  takes  a  running  start  an  d  then  dropping  down  on  one  side  just  as  pretty  as  you'd  want  sh  oot  s  across  the  plate  like  a  torpedo  nearly  spikin  g  the  gui  danc  e  coun  selor  who  got  his  feet  out  of  the  way  j  ust  in  time.  Suddenly  the  pitcher  got  his  range  and  retired  three  of  us  in  a  row  and  in  the  bottom  of  the  inning  Niswon  ger  promply  oblidge  d  t  he  opposition  by  start-  ing  up  the  Big  Parade  around  the  bags  again.  He  walked  seven  in  a  row  and  then  finally  got  one  over  that  the  Blue-  jay  at  bat  sent  into  left  field  for  a  homer  and  a  two  run  lead  for  the  enemy.  At  this  junkture  I  debated  yanking  Niswonger.  But  sensing  what  was  in  the  wind  Mrs.  Niswonger  hightailed  it  over  to  our  dugout  hauling  the  plate  ump  with  her-this  guidance  counselor.  He  sketched  in  the  basic  factors  in  the  bind  we  were  in.  The  kid's  father  couldn't  get  past  the  Biltmore  Men's  Bar  unless  hogtied  and  dragged  past  and  then  only  with  the  reminder  that  they  was  still  the  bar  car  to  sit  in  and  over-  shoot  his  station  by  a  couple  stops  land-  ing  him  closer  to  [REDACTED]  than  Westport  and  this  together  with  the  threat  of  iminent  divorce  it  led  to  give  the  kid  such  a  feeling  of  uncertainty  that  if  I  pulled  him  at  this  crisis  I  and  I  alone  would  have  to  answer  for  the  consequences.  He  wouldn't-the  ump  that  is.  He  seemed  to  know  what  he  was  talking  about.  He  got  his  P.H.D.  at  the  U.  of  [REDACTED]  with  a  thesis  on     " b"sulking  which  he  is  the  leading  authority  on  so  I  let  things  ride.  All  this  while  the  base  ump  was  handing  out  spice  drops  to  the  infield  from  a  good  supply  he  had  on  him.  As  a  town  dentist  he  can't  see  why  all  the  to  do  about  a  few  cavities.  Suffise  it  to  say  Niswonger  worked  his  way  out  of  the  hole  and  we  tied  the  score  and  then  they  was  a  sudden  shower  which  the  way  they  performed  I  says  they  should  ought  to  all  go  take  any-  ways  includeing  the  mothers.  One  woman  listening  to  me  dish  it  out  in  that  vain  said  You  must  get  a  grate  deal  of  compensation  out  of  bossing  a  bunch  of  kids  aroundand  I  says  to  her  Lady  no-  body  offered  me  a  nickle  to  do  this  and  I  would  not  except  it  if  they  did.  I  couldn't  button  my  lip  but  went  on  to  say  that  I  liked  working  with  boys  if  only  I  could  get  rid  of  the  full  coopera-  tion  of  the  parents  espesially  the  women.  Then  thekid  with  the  will  to  fail's  mother  got  into  the  act  to  my  surprise.  She  was  eavesdropping  on  the  rhubarb  from  the  Jag  where  she  suddenly  must  of  got  her  courage  up  because  she  says  Evadently  you  are  equally  good  at  push-  ing  ladies  around  and  do  we  deserve  to  sirvive  as  a  race  and  I  says  If  you  weren't  all  ladies  I  would  give  you  my  opinion  of  you  in  two  words,  blather  skites.  Then  she  says  My  husband  will  wish  to  see  you  tomorrow  or  so  and  I  says  Send  him  around,  haveing  visions  of  being  strode  up  to  by  this  guy  in  one  them  gaberdcen  suits  Alice  and  being  slapped  across  the  chops  with  one  them  lether  handbags  that  they  carry.  Which  would  at  least  bring  the  rhubarb  up  to  the  man  to  man  level  where  it  belongs.  All  this  while  we  were  getting  no  dryer  accept  forthe  woman  snug  in  the  Jag.  I  was  between  her  and  the  first  woman  with  two  out  in  the  top  of  the  third  and  the  score  tied  eight  all  and  a  man  on  second.  Then  the  first  woman  says  You  certainly  seem  to  have  alot  of  hidden  hostilities  and  I  says  What's  hidden  about  them?  and  she  didn't  have  no  comeback.  I  may  of  been  a  little  sharp  but  my  job  is  hard  enough  without  a  lot  of  bystanders  going  off  %  cocked  about  how  it  should  ought  to  be  done.  Well  with  the  rain  showing  no  signs  of  letting  up  they  was  nothing  to  do  but  call  the  game  a  tie  to  be  played  off  later  though  who  picked  up  the  marbles  on  the  rhubarb  I  will  leave  you  to  be  the  judge,  You  know  me  Alice,  I  don't  want  nobody  sticking  their  $0.02  into  my  affairs  though  I  am  perfectly  willing  to  listen  to  any  reasonable  offer  of  advice  even  in  this  matriarky  I  think  they  call  this  type  ofculture.  I  agree  with  you  about  the  amount  of  furniture  we  should  start  off  with though  why  it  should  all  be  bird's  eye  maple  I  fail  to  see.  I  have  always  kind  of  had  this  feeling  of  mutual  hostility  toward  bird's  eye  maple.  More  of  this  later.  Yours,  Ep.  Westport,  [REDACTED],  July  2.  DEAR  Arice:  It's  grate  news  your  mother's  hip  is  better  and  well  enough  for  you  to  practically  garantee  you'll  be  here  in  a  week.  All  asI  can  say  is  I'll  be  glad  when  we  can  get  settled.  But  I  wisht  you  could  of  been  here  with  me  last  night.  As  you  know  we  finally  had  this  playoff  of  that  tie  game  with  the  Bluejays  which  was  also  a  game  breaking  a  tie  with  them  for  lft  Un  &quot;I  fourth  place  and  brother!  I  never  see  such  exitement.  It  was  the  most  satis-  fying  evening  of  my  life  sports-wise.  To  begin  with  they  was  no  mothers  around.  They  all  went  to  the  Mental  Health  Ball  which  is  more  important  this  year  than  ever  before  they  tell  me  because  of  the  whopping  amount  that  has  to  be  raised.  Malajustments  are  on  the  increase  in  all  these  communities  where  they  take  such  an  interest  in  their  children's  minds  and  organize  their  play  and  all  for  some  strange  reason  another.  The  guidance  counselor  was  chairman  of  the  affair  so  he  wasn't  on  hand  neither.  The  dentist  umped  both  plate  and  bases,  doing  so  from  the  pitcher's  box.  While  he  may  bea  firstrate  dentist  he  could  use  a  good  eye  doctor  hisself  judg-  ing  from  some  them  calls  Alice.  The  kid  with  the  thing  about  sliding  hasgot  another  thing  about  ducking  pitches.  It's  the  same  thing  really  the  way  they  explain  it.  He  has  the  same  chance  to  drop  beautifully  putting  on  the  same  kind  of  show  stirring  up  dust  which  he  spanks  off  his  uniform  like  one  who  " b"has  just  ecscaped  sud-  den  death  to  bolster  his  eggo.  They  was  a  fast  :  &quot;  ball  heading  straight  for  his  coco  but  even  as  he  made  for  terra  firma  the  ump  yelled  Steerike!  pointing  a  thumb  over  his  shoulder  in  the  gen-  eral  direction  of  Cos  Cob  to  say  he  was  out.  Well  Alice  itis  the  first  time  I  ever  see  a  man  called  out  on  two  strikes  but  the  ump's  memory  was  as  stubborn  as  it  was  wobbly  and  he  stood  on  his  right  not  to  have  to  reverse  a  decision  if  he  didn't  feel  like  it.  I  for  my  part  told  the  kids  to  show  some  sportsmanship  and  stow  the  repertee  such  as  Get  a  tin  cup  with  some  pencils  in  it!  and  etc.  But  that  ain't  how  we  made  Little  League  history  that  night.  I'm  coming  to  that  now.  Emotions  by  this  junkture  were  raw.  Both  sides  had  suffered  equally  from  the  1%  baked  umping  so  never  mind  that  but  by  the  last  inning  as  a  result  and  with  no  mothers  to  guide  them  they  were  playing  like  fiends.  Since  we  were  the  home  team  this  time  we  had  last  licks.  Not  that  we  ever  got  them-and  thereby  hangs  the  tale.  Midway  through  their  licks  the  Blue-  jays  put  in  a  pinch  hitter  with  two  on  and  two  away  and  the  score  tied  five  all.  Here  the  Bluejay  runner  on  first  started  yelling  to  the  batter  Put  one  through  second  where  you  like  to  Jack!  He  couldn't  catch  acold  in  an  icebox  in  [REDACTED]!  Meaning  rightly  enough  Mar-  tin  our  croquet  wicket.  But  by  now  Martin  had  had  it.  His  dandruff  was  up  like  nothing  I  ever  see.  Thank  God  his  mother  wasn't  around  to  badger  me  with  no  substitute  situations,  just  let  him  stay  there  and  take  it.  When  our  catcher  threw  a  bad  return  to  Niswonger  who  was  pitching  it  went  over  Niswonger's  head  toward  Martin  and  this  time  he  managed  to  get  hold  of  it.  Well  taunts  the  wit  on  first  what  happened?  This  says  Martin  and  threw  the  ball  at  him  like  a  rock.  He  caught  it  making  sure  to  keep  his  foot  on  the  bag  so  as  not  to  be  called  out  and  shot  it  right  back  just  as  hard  as  Ae  could.  This  time  it  went  as  usual  through  Martin's  legs  and  the  other  kid  says  You'd  make  a  grate  football  player-a  center.  That  did  it.  Martin  ran  over  and  let  him  have  it  with  both  fists.  Well  hon  don't  ask  me  to  describe  in  detail  what  happened  because  I  couldn't.  In  a  second  the  whole  infield  was  a  malay  I  couldn't  begin  to  give  a  blow  by  blow  account  of  and  blow  by  blow  it  would  have  to  be  because  this  wasn't  just  no  ordinary  rhubarb.  This  was  It.  Neither  I  or  the  other  manager  interfered.  It  did  our  hearts  too  good  to  see  it.  It  thrilled  us.  Something  went  up  my  spine  like  band  music  good  and  loud  at  the  sight  of  those  boys  out  there  mixing  it  up.  Being  boys  at  last.  I  never  see  a  group  so  integrated.  You  couldn't  tell  whose  arms  and  legs  belonged  to  who  they  was  such  a  solid  tangle  of  them  whaling  the  tar  out  of  one  another.  The  ump  didn't  interfere  neither  having  even  less  objection  to  loose  teeth  than  to  cavi-  ties.  He  stood  smiling  by  along  with  us  managers.  I'd  say  we  beat  the  Bluejays  that  night  though  I'd  have  no  way  of  prov-  ing  it  accept  by  a  count  of  shiners  and  bloody  noses.  By  the  time  we  did  pull  the  last  ones  apart  figuring  we  hadhad  our  hearts  done  enough  good  and  got  our  charges  tidied  up  a  little  it  was  too  dark  to  resoom.  The  other  manager  and  I  chipped  in  to  buy  them  all  pop  at  the  refreshment  stand  where  they  all  rushed  pellmell  like  one  happy  family  now. Well  so  ends  one  Little  League  sea-  son  for  one  manager.  Probably  his  last  judging  from  what  the  mothers  said  when  they  heard  what  happened.  But  it's  just  as  well  they  bad  me  fond  ado  before  the  official  farewell  because  the  boys  chipped  in  and  bought  me  a  beau-  tiful  silver  money  clip  with  my  inishles  on  it  whereas  if  the  mothers  had  of  still  had  a  hand  in  the  proseedings  you  and  I  might  now  be  libel  to  own  one  them  pieces  of  dead  wood  that  look  so  charming  on  tables  that  ain't  got  no  shape  neither  and  how  would  you  fit  that  in  with  bird's  eye  maple  Alice?  But  it  has  been  a  mighty  educational  experi-  ence  for  this  gink.  I  picked  up  some  pretty  good  pointers  on  raising  kids  so  come  on  out  here  and  let's  get  started  on  that  family.  Boys  that  is.  We'll  add  the  girls  later  for  you  if  needs  be.  Fi-  nancially  speaking-wise  I  know  what  a  full  house  means  these  days  but  I'm  game.  You  know  me  Alice.  Love,  ED."