 b"THE  characters  are  all  at  sea,&quot;  Mrs.  Haverstick  was  explaining  to  them  with  her  usual  bitter  charm,  &quot;and  the  reader  is  given  the  most  vivid  possible  experience  of  being  there  with  them.  Yes,  that  will  be  the  scheme  of  the  book.  I  see  that  more  clearly  with  each  chapter  that  I  finish.&quot;  Herr  Gottschalk,  seated  beside  her  at  the  Captain's  table,  wondered  only  when  she  would  finish  the  book.  In  one  pocket  of  his  coat  was  a  radiogram  from  the  publishing  firm  for  which  he  worked,  reading,  &quot;If  you  don't  get  it  this  time  don't  bother  to  come  back,&quot;  in  the  other  a  small  phial  of  pills  whose  bitter  taste  was  ever  on  his  tongue,  either  in  memory  or  anticipation.  He  watched  her  pale  hand-what  exquisite  hands  she  had,  how  many  men  in  times  past  must  havebeen  struck  by  them-gesturing  over  her  plate,  thenover  his,  as  her  description  of  the  grand  plan  of  the  novel  broadened  out;  it  waved  like  a  sea  frond  under  his  nose,  mesmerizing  him  till  his  eyes  crossed.  He  aspired  to  be  her  editor,  therefore  he  sighed  carefully,  but  the  belt  around  his  fat  middle  creaked  like  a  ship's  timber.  What  a  symbolism!  For  ten  years  he  had  pursued  her  from  one  tropical  para-  dise  to  another,  each  par-  adise  a  worse  hell  than  the  last,  driven  by  the  rumor  that  she  was  again  at  work  on  the  book,  lashed  by  the  bitter  dream  that  it  might  at  last  be  his.  He  often  saw  himself  as  an  Ahab  on  the  track  of  a  legendary  whale.  &quot;There  are  times  when  I  hate  it,&quot;  she  said.  As  if  he  didn't!  &quot;Our  author,  then,&quot;  the  Captain  broke  in.  He  sat  with  his  napkin  tucked  under  his  pink  gills,  his  fists  on  the  arms  of  his  chair,  as  though  he  were  going  to  punch  them  all  in  the  nose  for  having  come.  He  had  heard  for  ten  days  from  their  lips  nothing  but  names  like  Nietzsche,  Scho-  penhauer,  Kierkegaard,  and  Weltschmerz-he  knew  the  last  was  not  the  name  of  a  writerbut  of  some  German  dish,  per-  haps  a  good  deal  like  sauer-  braten.  He  did  not  want  to  hear  any  more  about  the  characters  in  the  book,  for  the  time  being,  but  he  wished  to  give  the  beautiful  English  lady  her  head  so  that  Herr  Gottschalk  would  not  start  one  of  his  lectures  on  the  inherent  good-  ness  of  man.  &quot;Our  author  then  has  mixed  feelings  about  the  human  race?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes.  We  cannot  forever  loathe.  We  must  swing  back  occasionally  to  sim-  ple  dislike.  In  this  way  a  balance  is  kept.&quot;  Mrs.  Haverstick's  reply  was  designed  not  so  much  to  answer  the  Captain,  who  was  in  any  case  a  swine  and  in  no  need  of  conversion,  as  to  torture  Herr  Gott-  schalk  a  little.  Whom  she  now  consid-  ered  with  a  lazy  malice,  leaning  slightly  away  from  him  in  her  chair.  &quot;Though  every  prospect  pleases,  and  only  man  is  vile.  Eh,  Herr  Gottschalk?&quot;  she  teased  in  her  rather  bitterly  musical  voice.  Gottschalk  was  seized  with  the  wish  to  rap  her  knuckles  with  the  butt  of  his  knife,  but  instead  squeezed  over  them  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  intended,  in  point  of  actual  fact,  for  his  sole.  That  would  teach  her  to  deny  the  inherent  nobility  of  man,  his  action  seemed  to  say.  Almost  instantly  there  writhed  across  his  lips  the  apologetic  smile  for  which  he  was  in  fact  more  famous  than  for  such  independent  deeds.  Mrs.  Haverstick  re-  mained  smilingly  quiet;  her  tawny  eyes,     so  like  bees  darting  this  way  and  that,  took  on  a  momentarily  sated  look.  He  had  met  her  standards,  for  the  time  being.  Yet  revolt  was  not  entirely  gone  out  of  him.  &quot;I'm  nobody's  fool,&quot;  he  mut-  tered,  forlornly.  &quot;'You  should  find  someone,&quot;  Frau  Hindendorf  spoke  up.  She  had  finished  gobbling  her  fish  andwas  now  ready  to  catch  up  on  the  conversation  in  a  more  intelligent  fashion  while  she  waited  for  dessert.  She  wore  a  plain  blue  linen  dress  and  white  beads,  and  on  her  arm  an  amorous  bruise.  &quot;We  all  need  someone  to  belong  to  in  this  world.  To  .  ..&quot;  HE  ship's  saloon  was  filling  up  rapidly  after  dinner,  and  as  Herr  Gottschalk  rounded  the  doorway  into  it  his  nostrils  encountered  the  bitter  smell  of  individuals.  He  hoped  to  find  Mrs.  Haverstick  alone  at  a  table.  When  he  did  his  heart  sank.  &quot;May  I  ...  ?&quot;  he  began  apprehensively.  &quot;Of  course.  Please  sit  down.&quot;  Seated  across  from  her,  he  felt  a  fa-  miliar  dew  gather  on  his  brow.  She  seemed,  herself,  now,  prepared  to  put  him  at  his  ease.  She  drew  from  her  bag  a  bottle  of  Cointreau,  unscrewed  the  cap,  and  began  to  pour  the  contents  over  her  bare  arms.  She  let  it  trickle  along  her  wrists  to  her  elbows,  rubbing  it  gently,  pleasurably  into  her  skin,  at  the  same  time  inhaling  its  fumes  with  a  lost  air,  her  eyes  voluptuously  closed.  Was  she  inviting  him  into  the  ornate  pri-  vacy  of  her  life,  if  you  could  call  it  privacy?  But  it  was  the  book  he  want-  ed,  he  reminded  himself  sternly,  the  prize  for  which  he  had  given  up  a  decade  of  even  the  simple  pleasures,  let  alone  the  exotic,.  Yet  she  was  a  woman  and  he  a  man,  so  that  chase  also  had  some-  thing  of  the  bitter  duplic-  ity  of  love-about  which  no  one  knew  more  than  this  woman.  He  tried  to  affect  a  lover's  noncha-  lance  as  he  pressed  the  bell  for  the  waiter.  God,  the  energy  that  went  into  indifference!  The  waiter  came  to  take  their  orders.  &quot;Have  youany  cologne?&quot;  she  asked.  Herr  Gottschalk  became  now  quite  terri-  fied.  He  heard  to  his  re-  lief  the  waiter  say  no,  with  gratitude  saw  him  go  off  with  their  orders  " b"for  highballs-and  return  in  two  minutes  with  no  further  words  spoken  at  their  table.  Herr  Gottschalk  raised  his  highball  and  with  a  flustered  &quot;Adios,&quot;  which  was  what  the  [REDACTED]  Americans  seemed  to  be  saying  all  the  time,  drank  it  down  as  though  it  were  a  glass  of  water,  he  was  quite  parched.  Now  he  would  make  the  pitch.  It  was  all  very  well  for  the  damned  unwritten  book  to  be  a  legend  in  her  lifetime,  but  his  was  drawing  to  a  close.  Down  the  arches  of  how  many  years  had  he  not  followed  her,  not  like  the  Hound  of  Heaven  any  more  than  a  Captain  Ahab,  to  be  sure,  but  rather  like  some  tireless  meek  mongrel  trotting  at  her  heels?  The  end  of  the  book  receded  eternally  before  you  like  the  horizon,  and  while  she  might  be  only  forty-five  and  couldwait  ten  more  years,  making  it  twenty  in  all,  he  was  fifty-eight  and  could  not.  Mrs.  Haverstick,  who  did  not  miss  a  trick  even  with  her  eyes  closed,  had  seen  the  flush  go  up  his  face  and  misun-  derstood  his  emotion.  See-  ing  through  people  sometimes  made  her  miss  whatwas  inside  them,  but  that  was  the  price  one  paid  for  the  gift  of  penetration.  She  thought  he  was  still  smarting  under  the  incident  at  dinner.  Men  never  know  when  to  quar-  rel,  she  thought:  how  to  spare,  against  a  hungrier  day,  the  still  uneaten  portions  of  the  heart.  &quot;'There  is  something  I  must  say  to-  night,&quot;  Herr  Gottschalk  began,  his  voice  gaining  an  unexpected  octave  inpitch.  She  saw  him  fidget  in  his  pocket.  He  was  nudging  the  cap  off  his  own  little  bottle  with  a  thumb,  so  asto  have  in  readiness  one  of  the  tablets  which  had  so  often  saved  his  life  and  might  be  called  upon  to  perform  the  same  role  tonight.  &quot;You  are  getting  off  at  Port-au-Prince,  they  say,  to  finish  another  chapter.&quot;  &quot;I  hope  to  finish  another  chapter  there,&quot;  she  said,  kneading  the  aromatic  liquid  into  her  wrists,  working  it  well  down  into  the  crevices  of  her  fingers,  &quot;A  page  or  two  a  day  is  all  I  can  manage.  Sometimes  not  that.  It's  slow  going.&quot;  &quot;Of  course.  It  is  so  rich.  How  far  through  it  are  you?&quot;  &quot;On,  a  third.  Perhaps  a  little  less.  Why?&quot;  He  cleared  his  throat  hoarsely  and,  reaching  between  his  thighs  with  his  free  hand,  hitched  his  chair  an  inch  closer  to  the  table.  &quot;I  am  too  old  to  make  advances to  beautiful  ladies,  but  I  am  still  fortu-  nately  in  a  position  to  give  them.&quot;  The  dog's  smile  writhed  across  his  face  again  as  he  joked.  &quot;I  am  in  a  position  to  offer  you  a  check  for  ten  thousand  dollars  for  what  you  have  of  the  manuscript.&quot;  She  stopped  kneading  her  hands  and  dropped  them  on  the  table,  resting  the  undersides  of  her  wrists  against  its  edge.  She  looked  at  him  quite  blankly.  &quot;W  hat  manuscript?&quot;  'The-the  Book.&quot;  &quot;You  seem  to  be  under  some  miscon-  ception,  Herr  Gottschalk,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;'This  is  not  a  book  I  am  writing.  It  is  a  book  I  am  reading.&quot;  Herr  Gottschalk  sat  like  something  molded  out  ofcheese,  staring  at  the  table  as  if  into  a  pool  of  sharks.  His  head  went  forward,  slowly,  like  thatofa  man  descending  willingly  into  what-  ever  it  was  transfixed  his  gaze,  not  fall-  ing  helplessly.  &quot;I'm  a  slow  reader,  and  the  book  is  long.  And  a  masterpiece.  One  is  some-  times  discouraged,  but  one  knows  that  what's  there  is  worth  staying  with.&quot;  She  seemed  to  have  forgotten  Herr  Gottschalk,  and  began  to  speak  as  though  she  were  talking  to  another  woman  with  whom  she  was  gossiping  about  a  third.  &quot;She's  a  genius,  of  course,  Bo     and  genius  always  has  the  right  to  bore  us  now  and  then,  for  the  sake  of  what's  up  ahead.  And  why  does  characteriza-  tion  for  a  woman  so  often  consist  in  hav-  ing  someone's  number?  Let  me  tell  you  about  .  .  .&quot;  His  fingers  relinquished  the  bottle  in  his  pocket.  It  was  the  great,  really  quite  blissful  Letting  Go  that  he  had  always  dreamed  it  would  be.  Even  before  his  head  struck  the  table  he  had  the  sensa-  tion  of  sinking  leagues  through  peaceful  waters  already  far  below  the  ship,  into  cool  fathoms  where  he  could  rest  forever  among  waving  fronds  and  the  great  tides  already  tolling  in  his  ears  like  a  dim,  de-  licious,  distant  bell.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Haverstick  saw  his  head  come  to  a  stop  among  the  litter  of  glasses,  ash-  trays,  and  spilled  nuts  on  the  tabletop.  Rising,  she  reached  across  him  and  rang  for  the  waiter.  \xc2\xabClear  these  things  away,&quot;  she  said  in  her  most  pleasant  manner. "