 b"TO  hell  with  her,  Benny  thought  bad-humoredly  as  he  loped  down  West  Ninety-ninth  Street  toward  Riverside  Drive,  too  sore  about  Flo  to  notice  the  city  racket  around  his  ears  or  the  chalked  hopscotch  designs  on  the  sidewalk.  Benny  just  wanted  to  get  away  from  his  street  for  a  little  while,  get  away  from  that  one-room-and-  kitchen  apartment  that  once  again  he  bad  spent  the  morning  cleaning  up  so  be  could  get  his  so-called  girl  friend  Flo  to  come  up  and  spend  the  afternoon,  the  evening,  the  night  maybe-that  had  been  the  idea,  for  Flo  to  spend  the  night.  To  hell  with  her  now.  Benny  had  been  living  there  a  year;  he  ran  a  parking  lot  on  [REDACTED],  and  it  was  handy  enough  to  get  to  work  from  the  West  Nineties.  You  had  the  river  nearby;  you  could  go  down  and  walk  along  it  when  you  felt  like  it,  which  was  just  what  he  was  about  to  do  now.  Forget  Flo,  kick  her  right  out  of  my  life,  he  thought.  What  was  she,  anyway?  Skinny  waitress  always  skittering  one  way  and  then  another,  always  promising  to  come  up  to  his  place  and  not  coming  up,  and  then  today  .  ..  He  didn't  need  her.  What  he  needed-  well,  he  knew  what  he  needed;  it  wasn't  Flo.  She  was  too  bony,  in  the  first  place,  and  all  right  she  worked  hard  at  the  restaurant  but  so  what,  plenty  of  people  in  the  world  work  hard.  He  worked  hard,  too,  maybe  not  so  hard  as  Flo,  maybe  not  so  hard  as  some  people  head-  ing  for  an  early  grave,  buthe  was  mak-  ing  out.  In  his  time,  he  had  had  his  ups  and  downs,  but  now  he  had  himself  a  little  deal  with  the  parking  lot.  It  was  very  simple:  why  work  more  than  you  have  to?  This  business  with  Flo  today  had  been  so  incredibly  simple  that  Benny  still  couldn't  understand  how  it  had  gone  wrong.  He  could  never  have  fore-  seen  a  fiasco  today-especially  today-  when  just  yesterday  he  had  gone  over  to  the  Crosstown  Bar  on  West  Ninety-  sixth,  where  Flo  worked,  and  told  her,  &quot;Look,  Flo,  baby,  I've  got  it  all  planned  for  tomorrow,  anice  all-day  Saturday  we'll  have.  I'll  get  a  little  lunch  in,  and  we'll  bave  a  few  drinks,  see,  and  then  we'll  see  what  we'll  work  out,  all  right?&quot;  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  what  we'll  work  out?&quot;  Flo  wanted  to  know.  What  a  girl  for  no  sense  of  humor,  for  no  feeling  in  a  situation;  you  had  to  explain  everything  to  her,  and  the  bar  was  no  place  for  that,  with  Flo  on  duty,  but  Benny  was  determined  to  make  it  definite  for  once.  They  were  always  going  out  together  without  ever  really  agreeing  on  what  they  would  do.  Benny  said  hurriedly-it  was  hard  to  say  any-  thing  thought-out  with  all  those  guys  around  waiting  for  Flo  to  serve  them-  &quot;I  just  mean  that  we've  been  going  to-  gether  for  a  couple  of  months  now,  and  I'm  just  asking  you  to  come  up  to  my  place  tomorrow,  spend  an  easy  day,  we'll  go  out  later.  Plenty  of  things  we  can  do-take  in  a  show,  even  go  to  the  a  night  club,  you  want  to  spend  some  money,  I  don't  care.  Hell,  Flo.&quot;  He  gazed  at  her  with  a  pained  look  on  his  squarish,  big-nosed  face.  Flo,  with  her  dark,  sharp  eyes  straight  on  him,  shook  her  head  dubiously.  (Flo  was  not  so  brittle  as  she  pretended;  there  were  plenty  of  men  who  would  be  a  big  im-  provement  on  Benny,  but  they  didn't  happen  to  be  coming  around.  )  She  kept  the  hardness  in  her  eyes  out  of  habit,  from  being  a  New  York  waitress,  hav-  ing  to  kid  around  with  the  men  in  the  Crosstown.  She  had  learned,  also,  to  keep  her  mind  to  herself.  Oh,  Benny  was  her  boy  friend,  if  anybody  was,  but  she  was  in  no  hurry  to  sign  herself  over  to  Benny.  Benny  and  his  plans;  he  was  a  real  planner,  all  right.  O.K.,  she  would  come  up  Saturday  for  lunch.  IT  was  just  too  hot  a  day,  that  had  been  the  real  trouble,  Benny  thought.  Flo  had  come,  sat  down  on  the  low  green  sofa  that  converted  into  a  bed  at  night,  and  Benny  had  got  drinks.  Then  he  had  turned  on  the  big,  rattling  floor  fan-maybe  that  had  been  the  trouble,  the  damned  thing  buzzing  all  the  time,  blasting  the  hot  air  at  the  two  of  them,  ruffling  Flo's  skirt.  'The  grille  over  the  front  of  the  fan  had  been  zinging  and  twanging  as  if  the  machine  were  on  the  verge  of  going  out  of  control  and  flying  into  a  thousand  tinny  pieces,  blades  whizzing  all  over  the  room,  cut  your  head  off.  Flo  had  s=  with  her  skinny  knees  together  uncomfortably  before  her-  the  sofa  was  too  low,  just  onc  more  thing  wrong  with  the  place.  It  must  have  been  the  fan.  Or  maybe  it  wasn't  the  fan;  it  could  have  been  that  madwoman  next  door  scream-  ing  through  the  hole  in  the  wall  between  Benny's  kitchen  and  hers,  this  so-called  tempo-  rary  hole  made  weeks  ago  by  a  plaster-smashing  electrician.  Benny  had  gone  out  to  the  kitchen  to  get  ice  cubes.  This  damned  hole  was  right  beside  the  refrigerator,  and  the  old  crone  began  her  screeching  at  someone  who  lived  with  her-  her  daughter,  probably;  Ben-  ny  had  never  bothered  to  find  out.  When  Benny  had  got  the  ice  cubes,  and  the  crone  had  got  into  good  voice,  Ben-  ny  poked  his  big  nose  through  the  hole  and  yelled,  &quot;Shut  up!&quot;  at  her.  Two  wild  lit-  " b"tle  eyes  appeared  at  the  hole.  It  was  the  first  time  Benny  had  seen  theold  woman.  May-  be  before  the  building  had  gone  up  she  had  perched  in  a  tree;  over  her  outraged  cack-  lings,  they  had  built  the  apart-  ment  around  her.  From  the  other  room,  Flo  called,  &quot;What  isit,  Benny?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.  It's  all  right.&quot;  Flo  came  into  the  kitchen  and  saw  the  mad  old  eyes  staring  through  the  hole.  She  grabbed  Benny's  arm  and  stepped  back  into  the  doorway.  Fearfully  she  asked,  &quot;Who  is  it?&quot;  In  a  monkey  reply,  the  old  woman  screeched  through  the  hole.  Flo  drew  Benny  into  the  hallway  with  her.  &quot;What  a  horrible  voice!  What  does  she  want,  Benny?&quot;  &quot;She's  nuts.  Don't  worry  about  her,&quot;  said  Benny.  &quot;Does  she  watch  all  the  time?  Why  is  the  hole  there?&quot;  &quot;'They're  going  to  fix  the  hole.&quot;  He  returned  to  the  kitch-  en,  Flo  watching  him  from  the  doorway.  The  woman  was  still  at  the  hole,  clucking  away.  &quot;Can  it,&quot;  Benny  told  her,  and  stuffed  a  dish  towel  into  the  hole,  which  effective-  ly  muffled  the  yipping  and  snapping  from  the  other  side.  &quot;But  what  does  she  want?&quot;  Flo  in-  sisted.  &quot;Who  knows  what  she  wants?  She  doesn't  want  anything.  She  wants  to  yell.  Let  her  yell,  but  not  in  my  kitch-  en.&quot;  Benny  put  his  arm  around  Flo's  waist  and  nuzzled  her  ear.  Flo  continued  to  stare  at  the  hole.  &quot;It's  just  terrible!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Don't  worry  about  it,&quot;  Benny  said.  But  she  broke  away  from  him.  She  was  obviously  upset;  she  was  always  letting  some  little  thing  upset  her.  Then,  on  top  of  the  old  woman,  there  had  been  that  buzzing  fan,  but  a  girllike  Flo,  works  in  a  noisy  bar,  you'd  think  she'd  be  used  to  it.  All  right,  it  did  make  too  much  racket.  You  couldn't  doze  off  a  little,  the  way  two  people  might  do  together  on  a  sofa,  on  a  hot  afternoon  in  a  dark  room.  And  then-  Benny  was  always  getting  some  big  new  idea-he  had  stuck  an  empty  cigarette  package  into  the  blades,  drawing  it  out  slowly  to  make  it  sound  like  an  airplane  taking  off,  and  with  his  free  hand  he  had  come  in  for  a  landing  on  Flo's  knee.  I  should  never  have  tried  that,  he  thought  now,  as  he  crossed  Riverside  Drive,  the  asphalt  soft  under  his  shoes.  After  that,  he  had  made  himself  a  stiff  bourbon  to  get  back  into  the  mood,  but  Flo  would  take  only  a  small  one.  She  was  too  skinny  anyway,  too  skinny  and  nervous  and  picky;  she  would  notice  that  the  top  of  his  refrigerator  was  dirty  under  the  stove-not  just  dusty  but  dirty-and  she  would  notice  that  the  rope  in  the  window  sash  was  broken.  She  wouldn't  say  anything  about  these  discoveries,  but  she  would  always  be  noticing  things  like  that  for  the  rest  of  your  life  and,  anyway-  Benny  didn't  even  want  to  think  about  her  any  more.  What  he  had  finally  done  this  after-  noon-a  really  great  idea,  this  one  was,  a  real  prize  that  he'd  had  all  planned  for  a  week-was  simply  to  go  into  the  bath-  room,  take  off  his  clothes,  and  put  on  his  bright-red  silk  prizefighter's  bathrobe,  and,  as  casually  as  he  could  manage  it,  walk  out  into  the  living  room  saying,  &quot;Boy,  is  it  hot,  eh?&quot;  The  damned  fan,  or  something,  had  made  her  too  jumpy.  Violently,  she  leaped  up  from  the  sofa.  &quot;Oh,  please,  Benny!  You  don't  do  it  that  way!&quot;  And  she  went.  Gone.  She  was  g-o-n-e.  Benny  got  dressed  again-two-toned  shoes,  fresh  white  sports  shirt  with  the  latest-style  air  holes,  tan  silk  pants  with  alligator  belt,  wide-brimmed  soft  straw  hat  with  a  green  band  (the  hat  also  had  air  holes),  all  set  for  astrollin  &quot;cool  com-  fort,&quot;  as  in  the  magazine  ads.  All  right,  here  he  was,  but  alone;  ruined  it  again  with  Flo.  How  long  did  you  have  to  know  a  girl,  a  waitress  like  Flo?  Most  of  the  time  she  followed  along  with  him,  but  then  whenever  he  tried  to  get  something  going,  like  today,  whenever  he  tried  to  start  to  operate,  then  she  stopped  him  cold.  N  he  went  down  the  stone  steps  into  the  park,  Benny  repeated  &quot;To  hell  with  her&quot;  until  he  had  worn  a  groove  in  his  mind  with  it.  She  didn't  want  him  around,  and  none  of  the  rest  of  them  wanted  him  in  with  them  either.  So  to  hell  with  them,  too.  A  couple  of  little  boys  with  a  very  long  stick  were  trying  to  smash  the  globe  on  a  lamppost;  they  watched  Benny  cagily  as  he  approachedthem,  but  they  didn't  stop  their  awkward,  reaching-up,  four-  handed  banging.  &quot;You  boys  put  down  that  stick,&quot;  Benny  told  them.  Holding  their  stick  motionless,  they  eyed  him.  &quot;'You're  not  a  cop,&quot;  one  said.  'That's  my  lamppost,&quot;  Benny  told  them.  He  took  a  step  toward  them.  They  lowered  their  stick.  The  boy  laughed  at  Benny.  &quot;You're  " b"not  a  cop  and  that's  not  your  lamppost.&quot;  &quot;You  touch  that  lamp  again  and  you'll  find  out  whose  it  is.  Get  away  from  here,&quot;  said  Benny.  The  little  boys  moved  away,  dragging  their  stick  be-  hind  them,  off  to  find  a  lamp  they  could  break  in  peace.  Benny  looked  up  at  the  lamp  he  had  saved,  confounded  by  the  echo  of  his  own  voice:  &quot;Get  away  from  here.&quot;  It  had  worked,  that  was  the  amazing  thing;  anyway,  it  worked  on  little  boys.  All  you  had  to  do  was  speak  up.  &quot;Flo,  we're  staying  the  night  here,  get  it?&quot;  Like  that.  Or  maybe,  &quot;Flo,  go  and  undress.&quot;  That  was  the  idea-may-  be  not  those  exact  words;  you  would  have  to  find  the  exact  words.  It  could  work;  it  had  worked  with  the  kids.  You  had  to  have  somebody  bright  enough  to  know  you  meant  what  you  said,  of  course;  Flo  looked  as  if  she  would  never  realize  that.  But  those  kids  had  really  moved.  He  laughed,  walking  along  the  path  past  dogwood  bushes,  through  a  litter  of  broken  liquor  bottles  in  an  underpass,  down  to  the  wide  asphalt  walk  along  the  river.  The  day  wasn't  over  yet-at  least,  not  for  everybody  else-a  hot  Sat-  urday  afternoon,  the  grassy  fields  along  the  river  full  of  people  sunning  them-  selves.  Benny  walked  alongsidethe  water  until  he  found  a  freshly  mowed  embankment  of  a  proper  steepness  for  lying  back  on  the  elbows.  Once  in  place,  he  watched  a  cool  Negro  flying  a  kite,  a  Negro  with  the  visor  of  his  cap  pulled  down  over  his  dark  glasses.  He  danced  with  the  end  of  his  kite  string,  jerking  backward  abruptly  and  then  halting,  running,  fooling  the  kite  into  making  unwarranted  leaps  high  out  over  the  [REDACTED].  A  few  kite  watchers  along  the  grassy  bank  followed  the  Negro  appreci-  atively,  the  Negro  absolutely  oblivious.  Nothing  wrong  with  this,  Benny  thought;  there's  plenty  to  see  down  here.  Other  acts  in  the  show  included  a  si-  lent  prowl  car  creeping  along  the  river-  side  walk,  squeezing  between  the  railing  and  the  endless  bench  that  disappears  in  receding  geometric  perspective  toward  the  Seventy-ninth  Street  marina.  Hun-  dreds  of  citizens  were  sunning  them-  selves,  a  motley  variety  of  races  and  bright-colored  clothing,  a  scene  spotty  and  interchanging-ice-cream  venders,  balloons,  dogs,  cats,  kites,  folding  chairs,  car  robes,  Scotch-plaid  picnicjugs,  transistor  radios,  and  enough  children  to  make  up  the  population  of  the  city  in  fifty  years.  The  prowl  car  wound  its  heedless  way,  patiently  knocking  people  out  of  its  path,  inside  the  car  two  relaxed  cops  representing  an  absolute  limit  of  non-law-enforcement  this  side  of  mur-  der  and  riot,  cops  with  a  tired  eye  for  crime;they  hummed,  chatted,  ogled  the  girls.  Their  car  barged  along,giving  an  irregular,  lethargic  honk,  time-kill-  ing  cops  shoving  themselves  determined-  ly  through  this  throng  of  lawbreakers-  litterers,  bicycleracers,  no-leash  dog  " b"owners,  barbecue-fire  builders,  fisher-  men,  flower  pickers,  cutters  of  dog-  wood  slips,  tree  climbers,  lamppost-  globe  smashers,  roller  skaters,  kite  fliers,  bench  carvers,  graffiti  engravers,  fence  climbers,  droppers  of  stones  through  railroad-tunnel  grilles.  'The  cops  were  glassy-eyed  and  dutifully  awake  through  it  all,  their  radio  crackling  terrifying  messages,  black-and-green-and-white  car  moving  softly  on  its  low-pressure  tires  past  every  crime  named  on  the  big  crime-listing  sign  with  the  big  &quot;No&quot;  at  the  top  of  it  at  the  entrance  to  the  park,  cops  unthrilled  at  the  thought  that  there  is  not  an  innocent  man,  woman,  or  child  in  the  place,  everybody  guilty  all  around,  everybody  committing  New  York  City  crimes  this  very  moment-  except  maybe  Benny.  Benny;  the  uninvolved,  sunning  him-  self  on  a  hillock,  walked  out  on  by  his  girl  because  of  the  bad-luck  codperation  of  a  buzzing  electric  fan  (his  own  fault)  and  a  crow  woman  (what  man  can  foresee  trouble  from  a  hole  in  a  kitchen  wall?  )  and  that  red  silk  bathrobe  he'd  put  on,  a  gesture  in  the  grand  manner,  worthy  of  some  European  duke  (but  maybe  just  a  little  too  grand  for  a  Ninety-  sixth  Street  waitress).  Benny  was  bet-  ter  off  without  the  girl  and  he  knew  it  and  .  ..  And  and  and.  And  just  never  mind  and.  He  watched  one  of  those  childless,  so-called  intellectual  couples  go  by,  the  man  young-looking  but  bald,  with  gray  sideburns,  dressed  to  pretend  to  be  young  in  long  shorts  that  reached  down  to  his  knobby  knees,  and  a  knitted  blue  T  shirt  and  a  cap.  He  was  smoking  a  pipe.  The  wife  was  flabby-legged,  and  also  wore  knee-length  shorts.  They  had  an  Alsatian  pup,  and  were  lugging  a  lot  ofthat  aluminum  tubular  furniture.  They  were  going  to  set  up  housekeep-  ing  here  in  the  park;  they  looked  around  the  feld  to  begin  building.  It's  great,  marriage,  Benny  said  sourly  to  himself.  They  began  setting  up  their  tubular  chairs,  tables,  parasol,  bringing  out  the  jug  of  Martinis,  and  the  books,  and  the  Times.  My  God,  Benny  thought.  He  continued  to  contemplate,  but  it  was  a  role  for  which  he  was  almost  totally  unsuited.  He  could  comment  critical-  ly,  but  he  had  no  basic  theory  to  go  on.  All  he  had  to  goon  was  the  obviously  false  premise  that  he  was  better  off  without  Flo.  'The  falseness  was  becom-  ing  evident  even  to  Benny.  N  attacking  force  of  two  brown-  skinned  Spanish-chattering  girls,  about  ten  years  old,  suddenly  came  rac-  ing  over  Benny's  hill.  They  embodied  all  the  enthusiasm,  all  the  wiry  speed  and  nervous,  snaky,  agile  race-horse talent  needed  for  the  immediate  project  (to  kill  Benny).  The  two  girls  jumped  upon  his  head  and  shoulders,  rolled  him  over,  pulled  his  legs,  dragged  him  through  the  grass,  and  then  plopped  down  beside  him-one  on  each  side  of  their  Gulliver-and  blasted  him  with  high-pitched  Spanish.  &quot;Cut  it  out!&quot;  Benny  cried.  They  giggled-piercing  metallic  gig-  gles,  but  good  metal.  They  jumped  up,  tearing  around  Benny  in  such  fast  cir-  cles  that  they  became  more  than  two  girls,  a  brown-skinned  continuum  now,  hundreds  of  them  in  a  solid  spinning  ring  of  screaming  little  girls.  'They  stopped  abruptly  to  uproot  ammuni-  tion-clover,  weeds,  grass,  butter-  cups-and  fired  it  at  Benny.  Then-  pounce-they  were  on  his  shoulders  again,  beating  his  hat  in.  &quot;Come  weet  us!&quot;  one  of  them  cried.  Benny  reached  out  to  grab  them,  slow  them  down,  get  them  off  him,  but  he  couldn't  catch  them;  they  each  had  dozens  of  thin,  brown,  flailing  arms,  dozens  of  gallop-  ing  legs.  They  repeated  their  cry,  &quot;Come  weet  us,  come  weet  us,  come  weet  us!&quot;  They  tugged  on  Benny's  hands,  yanking  furiously  at  his  arms,  and  succeeded  in  pulling  him  to  his  feet,  Benny  helping  them  a  little-it  wouldn't  hurt  to  go  along  with  them  for  just  a  minute  or  so-by  pushing  up  some  of  his  weight  himself.  &quot;Come  weet  us!  Come  weet  us!&quot;  Benny  went  along,  and  still  he  thought  he  was  holding  back  something,  that  he  was  still  his  own  man.  He  thought  he  had  responded  to  these  kids  only  out  ofa  sense  of  kidding  around,  of  spur  of  the  moment.  But  he  was  as  much  a  part  of  this  Saturday  swarm  as  anyone,  clad  as  he  was  in  two  [REDACTED]  Rican  children,  one  on  each  hand;  he  was  as  much  a  part  of  this  long  narrow  West  Side  park  along  the  garbagy  Hud-  son  as,  say,  that  cool  kite  flier.  This  was  not  part  of  keeping  aloof,  not  part  of  doing  just  fine  without  that  bright-eyed  girl  friend  he  hadn'tlearned  the  first  thing  about  handling.  So.  Zoom  along  the  riverside  walk-  here  the  little  girls  put  on  the  speed.  Benny  sailing  down  the  walk  between  the  girls  like  a  barge  with  a  couple  of  slender,  self-powered  outriggers.  This  awkward,  galloping  little  team  sudden-  ly  pulled  up  and  surrounded  an  older  [REDACTED]  Rican  girl  who  greeted  the  younger  ones  with  familiar,  resigned  forbearance.  But  she  was  not  their  mother;  she  didn't  face  them  with  a  mother's  demand  to  give  a  logical  ac-  " b"count  of  themselves.  There  was,  how-  ever,  a  family  distance  among  them.  Flo  is  no  sooner  gone,  Benny  reflected,  than  here,  the  same  afternoon,  enother  girl  appears.  There's  one  along  every  five  minutes.  &quot;Quiere  este  hombre?&quot;  one  little  girl  asked  the  older  one.  She  and  her  sister  pushed  Benny  forward  hopefully  to-  ward  their  guardian,  who  smiled  at  Benny  in  a  kind  of  forced  complicity,  like  two  people  who  bump  into  one  an-  otherwhile  tripping  over  a  suitcase  in  the  subway.  Go  along  with  it,  Benny  thought;  why  not?  He  saw  now  that  the  moment  back  there  on  the  hillock  had  been  his  last  chance  to  stay  out  of  it.  &quot;These  girls  are  wild  ones.  They  just  came  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED].  I  am  their  aunt.  I  have  to  take  care  of  them  to-  day,&quot;  the  girl  told  Benny  in  careful,  Spanish-accented  speech.  Shelaughed  -  in  open  embarrassment;  she  had  a  gold  tooth.  &quot;These  girls  say  I  must  have  a  man,  so  .  .  .  they  go  and  capture  one  for  me.&quot;  Benny  could  think  of  nothing  to  say  to  this.  He  considered  her  flattish  face,  highcheekbones,  wide  eyes  with  eyeballs  the  color  of  faintly  stained  ivory,  strong  neck,  short,  thick,  dull  black  hair.  She  smiled,  and  with.  that  gold  tooth  it  was  quite  a  smile.  And  something  else;  with  that  dark  skin  of  hers,  she  was  managing  to  blush.  They  were  all  walking  again.  The  girls  gave  their  aunt  a  good  lead;  she  and  Benny  stopped  at  the  foot  of  an  embank-  ment  below  the  swish  of  tires  on  the  Henry  [REDACTED]  Parkway.  The  distance  between  them  diminished  but  neverthe-  less  remained  as  divisive  as  before.  The  little  girls  spied  a  couple  lying  together  in  the  soft  shadows  of  a  weeping  willow,  and  with  guerrilla  tactics  they  sneaked  down  the  slope  behind  them.  &quot;Those  poor  people,&quot;  the  aunt  said  to  Benny.  The  little  girls,  giggling  silently,  peered  down  on  their  victims;  then  they  charged,  screaming,  throwing  handfuls  of  grass  and  beating  the  hapless  pair  with  dogwood  branches.  The  girls  abruptly  abandoned  the  couple,  who  re-  mained  bewildered,  staring  after  the  escaping  marauders.  Benny  wanted  to  say,  &quot;They're  not  my  little  girls,  don't  blame  me.&quot;  &quot;We  must  go  home,&quot;  the  aunt  an-  nounced  to  the  mercurial  little  girls.  They  came  along,  circling  but  obeying.  Benny  turned  backwith  them;  it  was  the  end  of  the  path  anyway.  He  felt  a  moment  of  unforeseen  awkwardness  because  he  was  again  out  of  it,  even  though  he  had  been  trying  to  tell  him-  self  all  afternoon  that  he  intended  to  stay  out  of  it  altogether,  out  of  it  with  Flo  first  of  all,  and  then  out  of  all  this  feverish  juvenile  activity  down  here  in  the  park,  out  of  it  all  because  he  wanted  to  be  out  of  it,  because  he'd  never  suc-     ceeded  in  really  getting  into  it.  Now  here  they  all  were  turning  back  from  th:  pathway  to  go  home.  One  little  girl  fiend  said,  &quot;Are  you  coming  weet  us?&quot;  They  want  you  in,  Benny  thought.  How  about  that?  &quot;I'll  walk  up  to  the  Drive  with  you,&quot;  he  told  them.  When  he  got  there,  he  would  say  goodbye  to  them.  He  couldn't  talk  Spanish;  it  would  be  a  little  funny,  with  the  rest  of  her  family  around,  and  ..  .  well,  a  girl  like  that,  with  a  gold  front  tooth  .  .  .  probably  those  people  think  it  makes  her  beautiful.  But  for  Benny,  he  now  decid-  ed,  no.  For  Benny,  somebody  with  a  lit-  tle  more  class,  somebody  with  fine  bones  in  her  face,  somebody  like  Flo.  Maybe  he'd  go  around  and  see  her  tonight.  Delicate  kid  like  her,  he'd  just  been  pushing  thingstoo  hard.  Go  around,  say  hello,  bring  a  bottle  along,  maybe;  have  a  few  drinks,  see  how  things  would  go.  What  the  hell,  he  thought,  if  they  want  you  in,  I'll  go  in. "