 b"NOTHING  brings  out  the  dogs  N  like  a  bright  Saturday  afternoon  in  May-spaniels  and  dachs-  hunds,  Scotties  and  Weimaraners,  poo-  dles  on  Lexington  Avenue  shaved  to  the  nines,  curried  Afghans  in  [REDACTED]  Square-their  people  with  them.  There  are,  in  fact,  fifty  thousanddogs  liv-  ing  in  [REDACTED],  and  on  a  recent  Saturday  one  of  them  made  me  wish,  just  for  a  second,  that  I  could  go  and  live  somewhere  else.  I  was  passing  the  [REDACTED]  fountain  when  he  came  by,  head-  ed  west-a  small,  irregular  dog,  black  and  alone,  cantering  a  trifle  sidewise,  pointed  one  way,  going  another,  stop-  ping  now  and  then  to  look  inquiringly  at  some  stroller  and  be  looked  at  inquiring-  lyin  return.  He  had  no  collar  and,  clear-  ly,  no  status,  but  there  was  something  familiar  about  him,  and  all  at  once  I  knew  what  it  was.  He  made  me  think  of  the  disorderly  dogs  that  used  to  bark  at  the  moon  and  each  other  back  when  I  was  a  boy-collarless  dogs  barking  on  the  far  side  of  town  or  across  a  hill  or  a  field.  And  (among  the  orderly  build-  ings,  the  pavements,  the  orderly  people)  I  found  that  now  I  was  also  remembering  roosters  crowing  toward  morning,  and  the  smell  of  grass  with  dew  on  it.  Then  the  dog  trundled  off  obliquely,  bound  for  Sixth  Avenue  and  no  telling  where  else,  and  there  I  was,  wishing,  as  I  sometimesdo  nowadays,  when  stray  recollections  pop  up  and  the  weather  is  good,  that  I  myself  might  somehow  be  bound  for  [REDACTED].  Not  thatI  know  the  first  thing  about  [REDACTED].  Not  I.  I  would  guess  itis  hopeful  and  neighborly;  the  lights  of  Perth  were  on  when  John  Glenn  hap-  pened  by.  But  lately  it  has  taken  to  look-  ing  to  me  like  [REDACTED]-a  younger  [REDACTED]  than  the  country  I  live  in  now.  And  if  one  can't  get  back  across  time,  at  least  one  can  consider  crossing  distance.  Roads  are  two-lane  in  the  [REDACTED]  I  have  invented.  They  go  past  back  yards  and  sometimes  through  unlandscaped,  unpremeditated  woods.  Tall  automo-  biles  chug  along  them  peaceably  and  pull  off  wherever  it  suits  them.  A  fair  lot  of  camping  goes  on;  you  pitch  your  tent  any  old  place  and  rustle  upyour  own  kindling.  There  are  prairie  fires  to  be  put  out,  and  there  are  houses  with  slop-  ing  cellar  doors.  There  is  frost  on  the stalks  of  dried  weeds  on  winter  morn-  ings.  There  are  even  aborigines  (in  my  mind,  they  ride  calico  ponies  and  wear  feathers),  but  they  are  quite  safe  and  a  good  way  off.  Out  West.  And  I  sup-  pose  all  this  is  part  of  what  I  had  thought  of-at  least  until  I  met  the  dog  at  the  [REDACTED]-as  my  [REDACTED].  Well,  but  there  had  to  be  more  to  it  than  that,  I  reflected,  nodding  frater-  nally  after  the  dog.  I  hadhad  some  er-  rands  roughly  in  mind,  but  by  now  spring  had  disposed  of  them.  I  turned  toward  [REDACTED],  propelled  by  a  breeze.  I  thought  that  of  course  one  has  an  [REDACTED]-everybody  must  have-  and  surely  minemust  consist  of  more  than  roosters  and  old  weeds.  And  though  I  saw  that  it  might  not  be  easy  to  put  a  finger  on,  I  told  myself  that  after  all  these  years  it  was  certainly  time  I  tried.  How  did  one  start?  With  hills  and  fields  and  spacious  skies,  perhaps?  Pur-  ple  mountains  and  amber  waves  of  grain?  With  steel  mills,  or  Plymouth  Rock,  or  baseball,  or  simply  a  map?  I  have  always  been  astounded  to  see  from  the  air  that  pieces  of  [REDACTED]  corrobo-  rate  the  maps.  But  blue  Lake  Ontario  is  above  blue  Lake  Erie,  and  they  are  joined  by  a  blue  canal,  no  question  about  it.  I  ought  to  be  less  surprised  when  I  see  things  like  that.  I  was  myself  an  inveterate  mapmaker  at  one  time,  and  could  draw  the  whole  United  [REDACTED]  from  memory.  I  always  did  what  I  could  to  draw  it  to  scale,  aping  textbooks,  but  I  had  a  small  cartographer  friend  who  didn't.  He  had  bright-  red  hair  and  privateopinions.  His  name  was  Harry.  He  dis-  missed  scale.  We  lived  on  the  outskirts  of  [REDACTED],  so  Har-  ry  would  draw  a  good  big  [REDACTED]  and  fill  in  the  rest  of  the  states  as  the  paper  allowed.  [REDACTED]  didn't  always  make  it.  But  Harry  had  barely  heard  of  [REDACTED],  so  he  didn't  think  it  mattered.  His  map  was  his,  and  (passing  the  equestrian  statue  of  General  Sherman)  I  decided  that  maybe  Harry  had  something.  At  least,  he  had  my  earliest  [REDACTED].  It  was  vast,  with  me  at  the  cen-  ter  of  it,  and  all  of  it,  or  al-  most  all,  was  [REDACTED].  It  seemed  that  the  past  was  as  good  a  place  as  any  to  look  for  one's  [REDACTED],  and  I  had  already  got  there.  ('The  pres-  ent  was  just  a  jumble;  it  was  " b"far  too  close  to  see.)  The  dog  and  Aus-  tralia  had  helped,  of  course,  and  now  so  did  General  Sherman,  for  Harry's  and  my  [REDACTED]  was  brave.  It  did  little  but  get  into  wars  and  win  them,  and  Harry  and  I  fought  in  all  of  them  with  spirit  and  good  fortune.  We  marched  to  the  sea  with  the  General.  We  jointly  accept-  ed  Burgoyne's  sword  at  Saratoga,  and  we  both  survived  the  doings  at  the  Little  Bighorn.  But  my  [REDACTED]  was,  if  pos-  sible,  even  braver  than  Harry's,  because  I  was  eligible.  I  should  explain  that  by  the  time  I  met  him  I  knew  that  what  I  was  eligible  for  was  President.  So  was  he,  to  be  sure,  but  with  him  it  was  routine.  My  family  had  come  from  [REDACTED],  and  my  elders  weren't  eligible,  so  they  hung  the  tag  on  me  at  an  early  age,  and  it  stuck  in  my  mind.  It  made  me  feel  unique  and  responsible.  Harry  would  fight  in  any  old  war  if  you  let  him-  Napoleonic,  Punic,  anything.  It  was  I  who  kept  ours  556e6974656420537461746573n,  and  righteous.  So  [REDACTED],  back  there,  was  heroic  and  always  just-but  then,  I  told  my-  self,  I  was  quite  young.  I  had  walked  as  far  as  the  zoo,  where  I  stood  con-  fronting  a  yak.  Beside  me,  a  small,  delicate  man  and  two  girls,  maybe  six  and  eight,  were  speaking  a  soft,  remote  language  and  appearing  remote  as  well-dark  and  Levantine.  But  the  man  was  wearing  light  flannel  slacks,  two-toned  shoes,  and  a  gray-and-green  jacket;  both  girls  wore  tartan  pants  and  short  red  coats,  and  their  hair  was  in  ponytails;  all  three  were  chewing  gum  as  they  regarded  the  yak;  and  each  of  them  had  a  yellow  balloon  bobbing  on  the  end  of  a  string.  It  looked  as  if  their  [REDACTED]  might  at  least  be  friendly,  if  not  heroic-odd  but  hospitable,  delighted  to  meet  them.  I  hoped  so.  But  my  own  was  the  one  I  was  after,  and,  fishing  around  for  it  resolutely,  I  found  myself  a  sophomore  in  college.  RECALLED  one  evening  well.  The  hour  was  late,  there  was  moon-  light,  it  was  May.  [REDACTED],  mine  and  everyone  else's,  had  changed.  Stocks  were  up,  heroics  down.  I  was  out  with  an  ash-blond  girl  by  the  name  of  Jean.  I  believe  she  really  was  beautiful;  I  cer-  tainly  thought  so.  We  were  walking  toward  her  house  along  mossy  brick  sidewalks  and  under  pale  dogwood  blos-  soms,  and  I  was  talking.  I  had  got  up  some  opinions  of  my  own  by  that  time,  and  I  was  anxious  for  Jean  to  know  about  them,  and  to  revere  both  them  and  me.  For  instance,  I  was  aware  that  [REDACTED]  was  commonplace-a  wilder-  ness  of  Babbitts.  (A  classmate  and  I  were  planning  a  little  magazine.  We  thought  we  might  call  it  Common  Sense,  or  just  The  Deluge.  It  was  sup-  posed  to  \xc3\xa9pater  the  bourgeois.)  Anyway,  there  I  was,  walking  with  Jean  on  the  crumbling,  dappled  bricks.  We  went  up  on  the  porch  whenwe  got  to  her  house.  We  sat  on  the  swing.  I  must  have  kept  quiet  a  minute.  &quot;Go  on,&quot;  she  said-thinly,  as  I  remember.  &quot;Tell  me  some  more  about  patriotism,  and  irony,     and  all,&quot;  and  I  guess  I  did.  For  (turn-  ing  to  leave  the  zoo  through  bright  clouds  of  balloons  and  children)  I  could  all  but  hear  myself  telling  her,  there  on  the  dim  porch,  that  patriotism  was  the  last  refuge  of  a  scoundrel.  I  may  have  got  the  point  of  the  line  a  little  askew  that  spring,  but  I  liked  what  I  thought  it  was,  and  I  made  it  often.  Apparently  I  had  had  a  number  of  556e6974656420537461746573s-the  bourgeois,  undeserving  one,  the  brave  one,  the  one  with  the  roosters-and  it  seemed  likely  that  each  of  these  and  many  others  had  left  a  little  of  itself  behind.  Residue.  I  went  up  a  slope  past  polar  bears,  and  past  couples  dreaming  on  rocks  ([REDACTED]  was  in  the  near  future;  [REDACTED]  was  plans),  and  down  a  winding  walk  to  the  edge  of  the  pond.  Three  boys  in  their  late  teens  were  coming  along,  arguing.  &quot;W  hat  do  I  want?  What  do  I  want?&quot;  one  of  them  was  shouting.  He  said  he  wanted  to  be  right,  just  for  once-that  was  what  he  wanted.  The  others  conferred,  and  an-  nounced  that  he  could  be  right  this  time.  They  all  shook  hands  on  it,  changed  the  subject,  and  walked  on,  shouting.  [REDACTED]  was  noisy,  I  thought,  but  fair.  And,  apparently,  556e6974656420537461746573s  abounded  in  [REDACTED],  but  my  own-the  sum  of  the  deposits,  so  to  speak-was  what  I  still  was  trying  to  find.  HE  trouble  was,  it  seemed  to  be  growing  harder  to  get  hold  of;  it  came  in  glimpses.  A  page  of  the  Wall  Street  Journal  was  floating  there  at  my  " b"feet,  lilting  a  couple  of  inches  below  the  surface  of  the  pond,  and  the  next  thing  I  knew,  I  had  caught  sight  of  yet  an-  other  [REDACTED]-the  one  that  President  Roosevelt  and  I  thought  needed  fixing.  It  is  possible  that  hegot  the  idea  first.  At  any  rate,  the  place  was  a  mess,  and  he  did  his  part  in  fireside  chats  and  in  other  ways;  I  went  to  meetings.  I  signed  petitions.  I  deplored  boll  weevils,  share-  cropping,  and  the  plow  that  broke  the  plains.  I  went  around  whistling  &quot;One  Big  Union  for  Two.&quot;  I  never  walked  in  a  picket  line-nobody  asked  me-but  I  never  crossed  one,  either,  and  I  re-  garded  people  who  did  as  economic  roy-  alists,  to  say  the  least.  Well,  time  passed,  as  they  say--both  back  in  that  balky  [REDACTED]  and  there  by  the  pond  in  Cen-  tral  Park,  for,  still  staring  at  the  newspaper  glimmering  in  the  water,  I  slipped  along  the  years  with  the  Presi-  dent,  hearing  his  voice  again  (&quot;.  ..  my  little  dog,  Fala.&quot;  &quot;Yesterday,  Decem-  ber  7th  ...&quot;),  seeing  him  wave  his  hat  from  the  back  seat  of  a  car,  and,  later,  seeing  the  very  hat,  and  the  Navy  cape  that  went  with  it,  hanging,  almost  alive,  in  a  closet  in  Hyde  Park.  And  then,  as  I  left  the  pond  and  went  up  the  rise  toward  Fifth  Avenue,  I  remembered  an  August  evening  almost  forty  years  ago.  I  was  cutting  through  a  grove  full  of  katydids,  and  then  through  a  field  full  of  burs  and  out  onto  an  unpaved  road.  It  was  dark,  and  wherever  I  went  I  could  hear  people  on  all  sides  of  me,  walking  and  talking  quietly.  'They  were  on  their  way  to  stand  beside  the  B.  &amp;  O.  tracks  where,  sometime  that  night,  [REDACTED]  Harding's  funeral  train  would  pass.  I  went  on  and  stood  with  them,  thinking  about  the  train  coming  toward  us  across  the  nation.  I  expected  great  plumes  on  it  (when  it  came,  there  were  none-only  a  pair  of  white  flags  on  the  engine,  and  a  string  of  dark  cars,  with  a  dim  light  in  the  last  one),  because  I  kept  getting  Harding  mixed  up  in  my  mind  with  Lincoln,  though  I  knew  they  were  unlike.  I  suppose  what  caused  the  con-  fusion  was  the  people  waiting  in  the  night-as  I  knew  they  had  for  Lin-  coln-there,  and  all  along  the  journey,  day  and  night.  And  (now  leaving  the  Park  for  the  Avenue)  I  thought  of  the  way  [REDACTED]-mine  or  anyone's-falls  into  a  national  hush  at  times  like  that,  and,  for  at  least  a  little  while,  is  all  of  a  piece.  F  course,  [REDACTED]  is  all  of  a  piece  at  times  of  jov  as  well  as  loss,  Ire-  flected,  turning  south,  thinking  of  Lind-  bergh  and  (Glenn,  football  Saturdays,  and  the  ends  of  wars.  It  acts  rather  the  way  a  person  does  then;  nothing  counts but  its  jubilation  or  sorrow.  But  I  was  supposed  to  be  hunting  for  an  [REDACTED]  that  was  all  of  a  piece  all  the  time,  and  it  kept  breaking  up  in  fragments  and  slipping  away.  I  thought  that  perhaps  I  could  geta  grip  on  it  by  summing  it  up.  Well,  then,  I  told  myself,  as  far  as  I  could  make  out  it  was  a  little  old-  fashioned  in  some  ways;  brave,  at  least  in  retrospect;  patriotic,  but  not  blindly;  sure  that  it  was  always  right;  friendly  and  hospitable,  if  somewhat  limited  in  its  views;  hopeful  of  the  future;  fair,  and  proud  of  it;  and  it  had  bouts  of  conscience,  and  sadnesses  and  triumphs.  In  fact,  it  was  beginning  to  resemble  some  of  my  friends,  every  last  one  of  whom  is  indeed  a  person  and  acts  it.  You  had  to  say  that  [REDACTED]  was  human,  all  right,  take  it  one  way  or  an-  other,  and  apparently  all  my  556e6974656420537461746573s,  and  the  others  I  saw  around  me,  and  the  elusive  fragments,  were  rolling  themselves  into  one  that  was  going  to  be  about  as  definable  as  the  average  man.  Easy  enough  on  a  quick  look,  but  inside  you  could  lose  your  way;  all  those  cells  and  corpuscles-all  those  anxieties  and  trains  of  thought.  A  lot  goes  on.  I  had  got  to  Rockefeller  Center.  A  corpuscle  with  a  crew  cut  was  taking  pictures  of  St.  Patrick's.  A  cell  with  a  blue  flowered  hat  was  window-shopping  at  Dunthill's.  An  anxiety  in  a  polyester  suit  was  trying  to  wag  down  a  cab.  I  looked  along  the  flower  beds  and  past  Prometheus  to  the  flags,  and  up  and  up,  and  I  thought  I  might  just  take  a  turn  on  the  R.C.A.  roof.  I  got  there  in  no  time,  ears  popping.  (Some  cells  of  my  own  were  deploring,  petitioning.)  A  strong  wind  was  blow-  ing  little  clouds  in  from  [REDACTED],  and  per-  haps  from  [REDACTED]  and  beyond.  (When  it  got  to  the  [REDACTED]  fountain,  it  would  be  only  a  breeze,  as  I  knew.)  Down  below  me  were  nerve  centers  and  arteries.  (Memories  also.  Trains  of  thought.)  A  lot  was  going  on,  there  and  elsewhere-in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED],  all  over.  I  couldn't  see  any  more  of  it  than  was  under  my  nose,  of  course,  but  I  didn't  doubt  it.  And  the  one  thing  I  was  sure  of,  now,  was  that  it  wasn't  just  going  to  stand  still  for  a  definition-not  for  me  or  anyone  else-though  probably  every  cell  in  it  could  say  exactly  what  made  it  all  work.     STILL,  that  wasn't  quite  all  there  was  to  it,  I  was  sure.  If  there  wasn't  a  definition,  there  at  least  ought  to  be  a  map.  I  looked  at  the  bay,  blank  and  " b"bright  in  the  afternoon  sunlight,  and  at  the  islands  that  outline  it;  at  the  Nar-  rows;  at  the  streams  that  make  glinting  lines  across  New  [REDACTED];  at  [REDACTED],  the  [REDACTED],and  the  [REDACTED],  precisely  outlining  [REDACTED].  And  there  it  was-a  map  of  the  Harry  per-  suasion,  my  map  of  the  moment,  with  the  chief  place  big  and  the  rest  dwin-  dling  off  toward  the  edges.  I  grant  that  if  I  were  to  draw  the  whole  of  [REDACTED]  now,  I  would  enlarge  other  parts  of  it  also-other  areas  of  consequence,  that  is.  But  I  thought  that,  to  all  intents,  Harry  was  right.  His  map  was  his  [REDACTED],  just  as  everyone  else's  is.  And  everyone's  [REDACTED]  is  therefore  mainly  himself-proportions,  memories,  cor-  puscles  and  all,  here  and  now.  So  I  sup-  pose  mine  is  else  could  it  be:  -and  [REDACTED]  is  only  [REDACTED].  Aus-  tralians  may  take  exception  to  this,  but  that  is  how  things  stand.  "