 b"WHAT  happened  to  me  one  morning  not  long  ago  probably  happened  to  a  lot  of  other  peo-  ple.  Or,  if  it  didn't,  it  could  have,  for  certainly  I'm  a  normal  enough  sort-  nine  to  five;  early  thirties;  one  wife,  two  kids;  each  year  a  little  more  money,  but  never  quite  enough;  two  weeks  at  the  seashore  in  August,  the  rest  of  the  time  in  a  New  York  apartment.  Our  apart-  ment  happens  to  be  on  the  lower  East  Side.  We  have  enough  room,  and  the  rent's  not  much.  My  wife,  of  course,  wants  to  move  to  the  country.  &quot;This  is  a  hell  ofaplace  to  bring  up  children,&quot;  she  says.  And  she's  right.  But  there  we  are.  I  don't  want  to  move,  because  it  seems  such  a  complicated  and  perma-  nent  thing  to  do;  and  so  the  seasons  pass,  and  there  we  are.  I  could  goon  for-  ever  telling  you  how  normal  I  am,  and  telling  you  of  my  few  idiosyncrasies,  which,  I  suppose,  make  me  even  more  normal-like  the  bicycles.  We  ride  bi-  cycles  around  the  city,  my  wife  and  I,  for  no  better  reason  than  that  it's  con-  venient.  Each  bike  hasa  child's  seat  on  back-I  take  the  five-year-old  and  my  wife  takesthe  baby.  And  as  long  as  I'm  going  to  talk  about  a  morning,  I  should  probably  tell  you  what  an  average  morning  at  our  house  is  like.  Frankly,  it's  not  sohot.  To  begin  with,  we're  always  behind  schedule.  I  ride  my  daughter  to  kindergarten  on  my  way  to  work,  so  she  has  to  be  ready  before  nine,  and  urging  a  child  of  five  to  hurry  through  breakfast  is  like  trying  to  hurry  water  out  of  a  gallon  jug;  the  more  you  shake  it  the  slower  it  pours.  My  wife  is  cross  in  the  mornings.  Some  people  say  they're  cross  until  they  have  their  first  cup  of  coffee,  but  that's  not  her  prob-  lem.  She's  just  plain  cross  from  the  mo-  ment  she  wakes  up  until,  asfaras  I  know,  the  very  second  before  I  walk  in  the  door  at  night.  At  night,  she's  fine.  As  I  said,  I  could  go  on  forever,  but  I  think  you  get  the  picture.  On  the  morning  I'm  speaking  of,  the  first  thing  I  knew  was  that  I  was  awake  and  that  it  was  raining  hard.  I  could  hear  it  splashing  on  the  sill.  Because  there's  never  much  light  at  our  bedroom  window,  which  gives  onto  an  alley  be-  tween  buildings,  and  because  it  was  rain-  ing,  I  couldn't  place  myself  in  time.  I  sensed  that  my  wife  was  awake,  and  I  grew  tense,  fearing  it  was  very  early,  and  knowing  how  cross  she  would  be,  being  wakened,  if  it  really  was.  But  then,  oddly,  I  didn't  sense  the  fury  that  comes  to  me  from  her-through  the  sheets,  I  guess-because  when  it's  there  I  know  it  right  away  without  being  " b"told.  I  sensed  in  her  another  feeling,  one  of  apprehension.  Had  we  horribly  over-  slept?  Was  it  already  late  in  the  morning  ofa  dark  day?  Only  then  did  I  become  aware  of  the  sound,  though  actually  I  must  have  been  hearing  it  all  along,  be-  cause  certainly  it  was  the  sound  that  awakened  me.  It  was  the  steady,  high-  pitched  wail  of  an  air-raid  siren.  I  looked  at  the  clock  and  saw  that  it  was  only  six-  thirty.  Why  the  air-raid  siren  at  this  hour,  I  thought.  &quot;Do  you  hear  it?&quot;  asked  my  wife.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said,  purposely  curt,  though  I  knew  she  wanted  to  be  reassured.  She  was  listening  intently.  It  came-a  steady,  blaring,  high  hum-  through  the  rain,  through  the  walls,  through  the  gloom  at  the  window,  right  into  bed  with  us.  And  while  I  listened  to  it,  refusing  to  say  anything  more  to  my  wife,  I  slipped  back  to  the  edge  of  sleep  and  hung  there,  teetering  slowly  in  the  sound.  I  don't  know  how  long  I  hung  there-a  minute,  perhaps  longer-when  through  the  sound  I  became  conscious  of  a  low  thundering,  a  thumppp,  thumppp,  thumppp,  that  went  straight  to  my  bow-  els.  It  sounds  silly  now  to  say  it,  now  that  I  realize  it  was  nothing  more  than  a  heavily  loaded  truck  slamming  over  the  cobbles  on  Second  Avenue,  but  then,  at  that  second,  I  thought  it  was  gun-  fire,  anti-aircraft  fire-God  knows,  I'd  heard  it  often  enough  in  the  movies.  And  the  two  sounds,  the  still  wailing  siren  and  the  thumps,  combined  in  a  hot  sickening  mixture  at  the  pit  of  my  stom-  ach.  I'm  told  that  this  feeling  comes  from  adrenaline  being  secreted  into  the  system  to  prepare  the  body  for  a  crisis.  Well,  my  body  was  prepared.  I  wasn't  yet  wholly  awake,  but  I  was  fairly  swimming  in  adrenaline.  My  mind  said,  quite  calmly,  I  recall,  Well,  it's  hap-  pened,  it's  finally  happened.  I  framed  those  words,  while  behind  them  loomed  the  boundless,  unspoken,  and  crushing  thought  that  this  had,  all  the  time,  been  coming,  and  that  I'd  known  it,  that  I'd  lived  my  life  worrying  about  unpaid  bills  and  my  wife's  temper  in  the  morning  and  that  it  had  all  been  for  nothing.  Now  what  do  I  do,  I  wondered.  I  thought  of  the  bicycles.It  had  been  one  of  my  daydreams  that  when  the  alert  sounded  and  the  terrified  millions  swarmed  onto  the  bridges,  bringing  all  traffic  to  a  standstill,  I  and  my  family  would  ride  out  of  the  city  on  our  bicycles,  picking  our  way  carefully  between  the  jammed-up  cars,  each  of  us  with  a  knap-  sack  of  canned  goods  and  plenty  of  fish-  ing  tackle.  But  then  I  remembered  that  my  wife's  bicycle  was  across  town  being  repaired.  So  that  was  out.  There  was  nothing  to  do,  then,  but  lie  back  and   " b"wait.  These  thoughts,  of  course,  took  only  a  few  seconds,  but  by  then  my  stomach  was  almost  back  to  normal,  my  vision  of  missiles  racing  toward  the  city  erased  by  the  preposterousness  of  the  whole  idea.  But  still,  I  wasn't  sure,  and  when  my  wife  asked,  &quot;W  hat  was  that?&quot;  I  answered  her  as  completely  as  I  could.  &quot;I  don't  know,&quot;  I  said.  GOT  out  of  bed  and  went  to  the  window,  naked  and  shivering.  I  could  see  nothing  but  the  heavy  rain  falling  between  the  buildings,  and  yet  the  siren  steadily  droned  on.  I  went  out  into  the  living  room  and  across  it  to  win-  dows  that  look  over  a  graveyard-a  remnant  from  atime  when  land  on  [REDACTED]  wasn't  so  dear  that  a  man  couldn't  afford  six  feet  of  it.  The  rain  fell  there  through  the  bare  trees,  on  the  marble,  and  on  last  year's  brown  grass.  Across  the  graveyard,  and  through  a  wrought-iron  fence,  we  have  a  view  of  East  Second  Street.  I  was  searching  for  a  single  sign  from  the  outside  to  tell  me  that  I  was  crazy.  But  the  street  was  empty;  there  was  only  the  siren  and  the  rain.It  occurred  to  me  that  at  times  like  this  one  should  not  stand  at  a  win-  dow.  I  hugged  myself,  against  the  cold.  Then  a  man  came  into  view,  hurrying  along  under  an  umbrella.  I  heard  again  the  rumbling,  farther  off,  but  the  man  didn't  lift  his  head  or  change  his  pace.  It  must  be  all  right,  I  thought.  A  taxi  swept  down  the  street  and  stopped  in  front  ofa  house  with  a  stone  stoop.  The  driver  hopped  out  and  ran  up  the  steps  through  the  rain.  Was  that  strange?  goodbye. "