 b"MADNESS  was  something  we  M  saw  a  lot  of  in  the  Australian  outback.  The  first  case  I  re-  member  was  thatof  Henry,  who  worked  on  my  father's  farm.  We  knew  there  was  something  strange  about  Henry,  because  he  liked  to  eat  platefuls  of  baked  suet.  Whenever  a  sheep  was  killed,  Henry  would  ask  my  father  to  clean  out  the  white  fat  that  clung  to  the  red  cave  of  the  sheep's  belly  like  stone  lace,  and  then  he  would  ask  my  mother  to  bake  Transferred  to  the  oven,  it  swelled  and  became  crisp  and  brown,  and  Henry  would  stand  and  eat  it  crunchingly,  slowly,  with  a  knife  and  fork,  plate  after  plate.  We  children  used  to  watch  him  with  astonishment,  because  the  amount  he  ate  seemed  huge,  although  in  weight  it  was  probably  not  extraordinary.  It  was  like  eating  spun  sugar,  and  the  fact  that  the  eating  was  done  with  a  knife  and  fork  made  the  process  elaborate  and  grotesque.  I  think  Henry  was  unbalanced  before  he  came  to  us,  but  we  were  never  sure.  My  father  tended  to  be  tough  with  sensitive  people.  One  cold  morning,  he  discovered  Henry  on  the  ground,  frozen  with  the  frost,  staring  angrily  at  the  sky.  My  father  hauled  him  to  his  feet  and  shook  him.  Henry  apparently  shook  my  father  back,  because  there  was  some  kind  ofa  scuffle,  which  my  father,  who  was  slim  compared  to  Henry  but  about  the  same  height,  described  later  as  a  psychological  test.  For  a  long  time  I  believed,  having  seen  films  of  the  Wild  West,  that  they  had  stared  tensely  at  each  other  until  Henry  dropped  his  eyes  and  sullenly  went  back  to  work,  but  later,  when  I  learned  something  of  the  relation  between  employer  and  employee,  I  laid  less  emphasis  on  the  strength  of  my  father's  character.  Henry  was  good  to  children.  We  used  to  go  into  the  paddocks  and  pick  mallee  roots  together,  and  he  showed  me  how  to  find  the  juiciest  grubs  in  the  roots  and  cook  them  as  the  aborigines  do.  'They  tasted  like  roasted  peanuts.  One  day,  however,  I  was  watching  Henry  chop-  ping  wood,  and  I  asked  him  a  question  that  produced  the  first  sign,  for  me,  that  he  was  reaching  a  crisis.  The  question  was  something  like  &quot;Do  you  like  chop-  ping  wood?&quot;  Usually  he  would  answer  a  question  like  that  with  &quot;It's  not  the  greatest  job  in  the  world,&quot;  or  &quot;Good  for  your  muscles,  [REDACTED];  or  &quot;Better  than  cracking  stones,&quot;  or  even,  with  a  smile,  &quot;I'm  just  keeping  the  handle  warm  for  you.&quot;  He  always  threw  the  question  back  to  me,  but  this  time  he  looked  sur- " b"prised  and,  with  his  mouth  dropping  open,  stopped  chopping  and  stared  at  me.  I  didn't  repeat  the  question,  be-  cause  he  seemed  to  have  heard  it,  but  after  a  while  he  asked,  &quot;What  did  you  say?,&quot;  and  I  became  frightened,  be-  cause  I  knew  I  had  in  some  way  an-  gered  or  hurt  him.  But  I  repeated  the  question.  Suddenly  he  swung  the  axe  in  the  air,  whirling  it  above  his  head,  spin-  ning  around  and  around  as  he  did  so,  until  he  stumbled  over  the  log  he  was  using  as  a  chopping  block  and  fell  to  the  ground.  Without  looking  at  me,  he  quickly  got  to  his  feet  and  went  on  chop-  ping.  I  sidled  off.  When  I  told  my  parents  what  had  happened,  they  said-  this  was  before  my  father  found  that  Henry  &quot;took&quot;  fits-that  he  was  prob-  ably  playing,  but  I  knew  he  hadn't  been.  The  climax  came  when  Henry  locked  himself  in  his  small  room  with  an  axe,  knives,  and  a  gun  and  refused  to  come  out,  saying  that  he  would  kill  himself.  Someone  rang  for  the  police,  who  were  thirty  miles  away,  and  while  we  wait-  ed,  my  father  and  some  neighbors  tried  to  entice  Henry  out.  He  just  shouted  &quot;No!&quot;  Finally,  the  police  came.  They  broke  into  the  room  and  came  out  with  Henry,  helpless  in  a  strait  jacket.  He  stumbled  between  the  two  policemen,  and  his  face,  which  was  covered  with  blood,  looked  as  if  he  were  crying,  al-  though  there  was  no  sound  of  sobbing  and  no  sight  of  tears.  Apparently,  he  had  been  hitting  himself  on  the  head  with  the  axe.  We  all  thought  that  he  could  have  killed  himself  quite  easily  if  he  had  used  the  knives  or  the  gun.  But  perhaps  he  wanted  only  to  hurt  him-  self.  NOT  long  after  Henry  was  taken  away,  Joe  Robbins  &quot;went  mad.&quot;  Joe  was  a  strikebreaker;  at  least,  that  was  the  dramatic  description  of  him  used  in  the  neighborhood.  Technically,  he  was  just  a  shearer  who  had  worked  when  the  others  were  on  strike  for  higher  pay,  but  the  fact  that  he  was  a  shearer  was  hardly  ever  mentioned  when  his  name  came  up.  He  was  called  either  a  strikebreaker,  as  if  it  were  his  profession,  or  an  Englishman,  when  people  spoke  of  him.  Each  description  was  meant  to  convey  something  inex-  plicable.  Joe  was  a  thin,  small  man,  with  a  sharp  face  and  red  skin.  His  skin  was  unusual  for  a  shearer;  most  shearers  were  pale,  from  working  indoors  in  heat,  and  their  skin  glistened  from  the  oil  in  the  wool.  He  wore  shoes  with  pointed  toes,  which  was  another  thing  different  about  him;  most  of  the  shear-  " b"ers  wore  light  sneakers.  His  trouser  legs  were  about  twenty-four  inches  in  width  at  the  bottom,  which  even  in  the  Ox-  ford-bag  period  looked  wide.  With  his  small  feet  and  pointed  shoes,  he  had  a  dainty  look,  like  a  dandy  sailor.  He  came  to  shear  at  our  place  more  than  once,  but  when  the  trouble  with  the  shearers  broke  he  was  elsewhere.  The  shearers  went  on  strike  for  higher  wages;  the  contractors  sacked  them  in  a  body  and  looked  for  new  men.  They  did  not  succeed  in  finding  them,  even  though  this  was  depression  time,  so  they  went  to  each  shearer  individually,  ask-  ing  if  he  would  come  back  at  slightly  higher  wages  but  without  establishing  a  principle.  Joe  was  the  only  one  who  did,  but  newcomers  from  outside  the  district  joined  him,  and  the  strike  was  broken.  My  father  was  grateful  to  Joe,  and  didn't  mind  paying  extra  wages  when  the  team  came  to  our  place.  He  used  to  say  it  was  hard  for  farmers  to  have  abiding  principles  because  their  income  was  so  seasonal.  After  the  shear-  ing,  Joe  went  back  to  his  own  work,  which  was,  during  the  off  season,  that  of  a  mechanic  in  a  breakdown  garage.  A  week  later,  the  local  newspaper  re-  ported  that  Joe  had  been  in  a  fight,  which  had  put  him  into  hospital.  When  {}{  he  came  out,  he  sued  two  men  for  as-  sault,  losing  the  case.  The  magistrate  decided  there  was  no  way  of  knowing  whether  the  two  men  had  provoked  Joe  or  merely  had  defended  themselves  vigorously  against  him.  'The  language  that  had  started  the  fight  was  handed  &quot;,&quot;  up  to  the  magistrate  on  slips  of  paper,   so  no  one  knew  exactly  what  the  provo-  cation  was.  The  odd  thing  was  that  one  of  the  men  was  a  union  organizer  in  the  district  and  the  other  was  a  farmer  whose  sheep  Joe  had  broken  the  strike  to  shear.  Joe  got  into  more  and  more  fights.  |  It  became  quite  the  normal  thing  for  him  to  be  in  a  fight.  On  almost  every  public  occasion,  when  the  men  got  to  drinking,  swigging  beer  out  of  bottles,  _|  some  group  would  start  talking  about  Joe  Robbins,  someone  would  get  angry,  and  Joe  would  be  sought  out  in  some  way  and  fought.  Joe  drank  very  little,  which  was  a  help  to  him,  as  most  of  the  men  he  fought,  or  had  to  fight,  were  bigger  than  he  was.  There  was  little  satisfaction,  however,  in  beating  a  drunken  man,  which  he  often  did  if  the  fight  went  to  an  end.  Eventually,  people  began  talking  about  Joe  in  a  different  vein.  &quot;Well,  I  don't  hold  it  against  him  for  being  an  Englishman,&quot;  you'd  hear  them  say.  &quot;After  all,  we're  all  from  good  British  stock.  And  there  are  two  pointsof  view " b"on  this  strikebreaking  business.  Some  of  the  chaps  were  honest  enough,  though  there  were  [REDACTED]  behind  it,  too,  mark  my  word.  But  what  I  can't  stand  is  the  way  he  goes  around  brag-  ging  about  winning  fights.  It's  enough  to  put  anyone's  back  up.&quot;  Actually,  it's  hard  to  know  how  much  bragging  Joe  did.  Every  time  I  saw  him,  he  looked  morose  and  quiet.  He  had  no  friends.  He  was  a  tetchy,  argu-  |-  mentative  sort  of  fellow,  with  a  sneer  always  close  to  his  lips,  but  he  didn't  sey  much,  as  far  asI  could  see.  He  had  not  been  a  braggart  before  the  strike.  When,  finally,  a  friend  of  ours  fought  with  him,  it  seemed  obvious  that  Joe  would  have  to  leave  the  district,  for  our  friend,  a  gymnast,  was  the  most  ami-  able  of  men  because  his  physique  and  good  looks  were  generally  admired.  He  said  Joe  had  said  &quot;Good  morning!&quot;  in  a  shop  one  day  in  such  a  way  that  he  |;  seemed  to  be  testing  the  gymnast's  atti-  tude  toward  him.  Our  friend  answered  &quot;Good  morning&quot;  in  a  way  that  he  ad-  mitted  was  meant  to  irritate  Joe.  He  said  he  meant  to  convey  to  Joe  by  saying  &quot;Good  morning&quot;  in  a  very  level  way  that  he  could  not  be  forced  into  respect.  Anyway,  before  anyone  knew  what  was  happening,  the  two  men  were  scuffling.  Our  friend  walked  off  after  a  few  punches,  angry  with  himself,  leaving  Joe  winded  on  the  floor.  After  that,  Joe  went  away.  We  did  not  know  where  he  had  gone,  and  al-  though  there  was  some  talk  about  his  disappearance,  his  name  soon  slipped  out  of  conversation.  It  was  as  if  he  had  been  part  of  our  society  only  because  of  the  trouble  he  caused  it.  He  had  owned  so  little  and  lived  in  such  obscure  friend-  lessness  that  no  one  knew  the  nature  of  his  absence.  Then  a  rider  looking  for  stray  cattle  found  him  in  the  scrub,  dead.  There  were  no  marks  on  his  body,  and  he  ap-" b"peared  to  have  died  from  thirst.  Back-  tracking  his  journey,  searchers  found  that  he  had  walked  for  miles  in  a  semi-  circle,  and  it  was  at  first  assumed  that  he  had  wandered  there,  either  lost  or  in  a  delirium,  after  setting  off,  for  reasons  unknown,  into  the  bush.  Then  a  gun  was  found  near  where  the  body  had  been  lying.  It  was  an  automatic  re-  volver,  fully  loaded.  On  each  bullet  were  initials  scratched  with  what  seemed  like  thepoint  of  a  pin.  The  initials  were  those  of  people  Joe  had  fought.  So  a  new  theory  arose.  He  must  have  gone  off  one  night  with  the  intention  of  shooting  his  enemies  in  one  long,  hor-  rible  sweep,  and  got  lost.  There  was  also  a  counter-theory,  proposed  by  peo-  ple  who,  according  to  my  father,  en-  joyed  complicating  life.  'This  was  that  Joe  had  intended  to  commit  suicide  and  thus  condemn  his  adversaries  by  his  own  death  but  had  lost  courage  as  well  as  his  way.  Within  this  group,  some  psy-  chological  deviationists  posed  an  alter-  native-that  Joe  had  not  lost  his  way  but  had  wandered  locked  in  thought,  and  had  finally  died  not  from  thirst  but  of  fright  at  the  prospect  of  suicide  and  the  overwhelming  loneliness  of  the  bush.  The  local  schoolteacher,  who  was  one  who  held  this  view,  cited  D.  H.  Law-  rence's  fear  of  the  Australian  bush,  re-  counted  in  &quot;Kangaroo,&quot;  and  pointed  out  that  Joe  had  been  timid,  which  was,  he  explained  carefully,  part  of  his  &quot;ag-  gressiveness.&quot;  But  the  coroner  showed  himself  to  be  a  man  who  believed  that  death  was  an  occasion  for  quick  dispatch  ofthe  dead  rather  than  painful  probing  of  the  living.  He  declared  Joe  to  have  been  insane,  and,  relieved,  the  district  settled  down  to  explaining  it  all  that  way.  HERE  was  some  doubt  about  the  Reverend  Mr.  Clarrify.  Was  he  mad  or  not?  My  father  thought  he  was  a  logical  and  coherent  man,  and  my  mother  thought  his  sermons  were  ir-  spiriting.  But  no  one  could  get  over  the  incident  of  the  case  of  rotten  oranges.  Reverend  Clarrify  ordered  a  case  of  oranges  from  the  greengrocer,  and  when  it  was  delivered  he  noticed  that  some  of  the  oranges  were  bad.  'The  minister  called  the  shop,  speaking  clear-  ly  and  unemotionally,  and  explained  that  some  of  the  oranges  were  bad  and  he  was  afraid  they  would  contaminate  the  rest.  'The  greengrocer,  Mr.  Hottle,  said  he  would  send  around  fresh  ones  right  away,  and  suggested  that  in  the  meantime  the  Reverend  throw  out  the  bad  ones.  Mr.  Clarrify  declined  to  do  " b"this,  on  the  ground  that  if  there  were  bad  ones-which  was  demonstrably  true-some  that  appeared  to  be  good  must  be  close  to  badness,  as  they  were  all  presumably  packed  together.  Mr.  Hottle,  who  was  puzzled  but  also  em-  barrassed,  finally  came  around  with  a  dozen  fresh  oranges  and  from  the  case  took  twelve  of  what  seemed  the  worst,  including  those  the  Reverend  Clarrify  had  first  detected.  With  a  smile  of  reas-  surance  at  the  minister,  he  pronounced  the  whole  case  fit  and  well.  But  the  Reverend  continued  to  look  worried.  &quot;I  think  they  are  turning,&quot;  he  said  with  a  smile  back  at  Mr.  Hottle.  The  following  Sunday,  Mr.  Clarrify  produced  the  case  in  church  and  preached  over  it,  making  out  that  it  was  a  lesson  to  be  learned  from  nature;  namely,  that  the  smallest  evil  could  destroy  the  greatest  good.  He  was  passionate,  but-confusing  his  congre-  gation-the  oranges  lay  in  bright  rows,  shining  healthily  in  the  open  case.  Mr.  Hottle  said  quietly  afterward  that  the  whole  thing  seemed  farfetched  to  him  and  if  he  didn't  know  the  minister  as  well  as  he  did  (which  wasn't  really  very  well  at  all)  he  would  suspect  a  scheme  to  ruin  his  business.  &quot;I  bought  the  fruit  in  good  faith,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;All  right,  two  or  three  were  bad.  So  I  give  him  a  dozen  new  ones!  What  does  he  want?&quot;&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  Mr.  Hottle  said  the  fol-  lowing  Sunday,  when  the  Reverend  Clarrify  preached  over  the  case  of  oranges  again,  &quot;eventually  any  fruit  will  go  bad.  I  don't  see  the  point.&quot;  However,  the  minister  preached  twice  more  on  the  oranges,  which  were  by  then  rotting  violently  in  the  box-  now  placed  on  the  stand  used  for  coffins  at  funeral  services.  He  announced  from  the  pulpit  that  he  was  leaving  the  case  of  oranges  to  lie  in  the  church  &quot;as  a  sym-  bol.&quot;  Before  the  next  service,  he  had  left  the  district,  and  we  never  heard  of  him  again.  The  oranges  were  removed  before  his  successor  took  over,  and  the  incident  was  closed  publicly.  It  was  still  talked  about  privately,  but  most  people  seemed  to  feel  they  were  not  helped  by  brooding  too  much  about  it.  MUST  add  an  experience  of  my  own.  One  day,  in  the  heat  of  early  afternoon,  I  was  walking  along  a  creek  bed  when  I  saw  approaching  me  a  wom-  an  dressed  as  a  bride.  She  was  complete-  ly  in  white,  in  an  ankle-length  satin  dress,  white  high-heeled  shoes,  and  a  white  veil,  which  she  held  away  from  her  face  with  both  hands,  as  if  to  see  where  she  was  going.  I  thought  she  was  a  vision,  at  first.  Her  whiteness  looked  " b"dramatic  in  the  dappled  green-brown  sunlit,  dry  old  creek  bed,  full  of  the  scattering  sounds  of  lizards,  snakes,  and  rabbits.  But  I  heard  her  shoes  crackle  on  the  ground  as  she  came  toward  me,  and  I  noticed  that  she  was  crying.  Al-  though  she  was  walking  quickly,  she  appeared  to  be  wandering.  After  all,  where  could  she  be  going?  &quot;W  hat  is  a  bride  doing  in  a  creek?&quot;  I  asked  myself.  She  seemed  very  tall  when  she  stopped  in  front  of  me.  &quot;I  have  lost  my  loved  one,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Oh,  my  love!&quot;  And  she  burst  out  in  a  fresh  series  of  sobs  and  ran  away  from  me.  I  followed.  I  did  not  know  what  to  do,  but  it  was  impossible  not  to  follow.  She  turned  back.  &quot;Willyou  take  me  to  him?&quot;  &quot;Who-is  it?&quot;  I  asked.  She  looked  uncertain  for  a  moment,  then  said,  &quot;'Take  me  to  the  road.&quot;  I  led  her  back  the  way  she  had  come;  the  road  was  close  by.  When  we  got  there,  she  looked  quickly  up  and  down.  \xc2\xab&quot;Which  is  the  way  to  the  ..  .&quot;  She  hesi-  tated.  &quot;To  the  township?&quot;  I  asked,  and  '  pointed  toward  it.  &quot;All  right,  then,&quot;  she  said  and,  turning  in  the  other  direction,  strode  off.  She  hurried,  occasionally  running  two  or  three  steps.  I  watched  herout  of  sight,  absorbed  by  the  anger  of  her  walk.  When  I  told  them  about  her  at  home,  after  running  all  the  way  to  the  house,  they  could  not  make  head  nor  tail  of  it.  We  turned  over  all  the  various  possi-  bilities,  but  one  important  piece  of  evi-  dence  was-to  my  shame-missing.  I  had  not  noticed  whether  or  not  she  was  wearing  a  wedding  ring.  This  would  have  established  whether  she  was  on  the  way  to  or  from  a  wedding-pre-  sumably  hers,  although  my  mother  was  not  sure  thatI  had  described  a  bridal  gown;  she  thought  it  might  have  been  just  a  dress  one  might  wear  to  a  wed-  ding,  for  which  my  imagination  had  supplied  a  veil.  &quot;If  she  was  married,&quot;  my  father  said,  watching  my  mother,  &quot;she  would  not  have  described  the  man  as  her  loved  one.&quot;  'This  created  a  long  discussion  of  other  subjects.  Someone  suggested  that  she  might  have  fallen  or  been  pushed  from  a  car  or  a  truck.  &quot;Was  she  untidy  or  bruised?&quot;  I  was  asked.  I  had  seen  no  evidence  of  it,  I  said,  beginning  to  feel  that  I  was  a  fool.  &quot;Why  didn't  you  ask  her  what  had  happened?&quot;  someone  else  wanted  to  know.  I  tried  to  explain  that  it  was  only " b'after  she  had  gone  thatI  felt  sure  she  existed,  but  this  is  not  an  easyidea  to  convey.  Later  on,  inquiries  were  made  around  the  district,  but  no  one  knew  anything  about  her.  Eventually,  most  people  for-  got  the  bride  in  the  creek,  but  I  remem-  bered  her  for  years  in  dreams,  in  which  I  tried  to  stop  the  picture  and  enlarge  her  hand,  searching  wildly  for  the  third  finger,  or  see  scrapes  or  bruises,  while  she  harshly  laughed  through  her  tears  and  kept  vanishing.  N  unexpected  mutant  was  the  actor  who  came  to  play  Shakespeare.  He  was  normal  for  a  few  months,  but  he  began  declaiming  texts  all  by  himself  in  the  middle  of  a  roadway,  or  jumping  and  skipping  along  the  side  of  the  road,  bedecking  himself  with  dandelion  neck-  laces,  imagining  fierce  sword  fights,  wringing  his  hands  with  grief.  He  was  taken  away,  and  later  he  recovered,  we  were  told.  And  I  suppose  there  were  cases  of  madness  in  the  district  we  never  even  knew  about.  '