 b"GRADwWELL  worked  for  some  peo-  G  ple  called  Morgan.  Their  house  in  Johannesburg  was  a  small  house  with  a  large  garden,  three  cypresses,  and  a  splendid  view.  The  plates  were  always  hot  and  the  ice  was  plentiful;  the  sheets  smelled  of  sun,  and  the  fires  burned  brilliantly  on  any  day  of  year  that  Erica  Morgan  felt  like  hav-  ing  one  lit.  The  Morgans  had  no  chil-  dren  and  were  happier  and  more  pros-  perous  than  many  of  their  friends  who  did  have  them,  which  somehow  did  not  seem  to  those  friends  entirely  fair.  Still,  there  it  was;  the  Morgans  went  to  Eu-  rope  every  two  years,  bought  books  and  records  and  even  an  occasional  picture,  and  lived  with  their  dogs  in  their  de-  lightful  little  house,  attended  by  excel-  lent  servants.  Gradwell  vacuum-cleaned  the  car-  pets,  polished  the  silver  and  shined  Reg  Morgan's  shoes,  and  changed  into  a  white  drill  suit  twice  a  day  to  serve  lunch  and  dinner.  He  was  a  Nyasa   with  a  face  so  black  that  the  blackness  was  an  inverted  dazzle-you  couldn't  see  what  he  was  thinking.  He  was  deft  and  quiet  about  the  dining  room,  and  on  those  nights  on  which  the  Morgans  went  out,  he  sat  up  with  the  dogs  to  keep  watch  over  the  house.  Erica  Mor-  gan  (she  sometimes  had  educated  Afri-  cans  to  lunch)  told  him  that  he  could  sit  in  the  living  room  and  listen  to  the  radio  if  he  liked,  but  he  never  did.  He  sat  in  the  kitchen  at  the  table  and  wrote  to  his  wife.  The  two  dogs,  pretty  Scot-  tish  terriers  with  tartan  collars,  snored  at  his  feet.  In  the  four  or  five  years  that  he  had  been  writing  letters  to  his  wife  to  this  accompaniment,  he  had  never  mentioned  the  dogs  to  her;  he  wondered  as  little  at  the  fact  that  it  was  his  duty  to  sit  up  with  them  as  he  did  at  the  incomprehensible  ritual  of  the  order  of  dishes  that  he  served  so  effi-  ciently  at  the  Morgans'  dining  table.  He  did  not  know  his  wifevery  well.  He  had  married  her  four  years  before,  when  he  went  home  to  Nyasaland  on  leave  for  six  months.  He  had  not  been  back  since  then,  not  only  because  of  the  money-the  train  fare  for  a  journey  of  nearly  three  thousand  miles  ate  up  a  disproportionate  amount  of  his  wages  but  because  he  was  working  in  Johan-  nesburg  illegally  anyway.  He  was  an  immigrant  without  a  permit,  and  he  was  afraid  that  if  he  went  out  of  the  place  he  would  not  be  able  to  get  back  in  again.  It  was  impossible  to  stay  at  home  in  Nyasaland,  of  course.  How  could  he  consider  working  for  two  pounds  a  month  there,  when  in  Johan-  nesburg  he  could  earn  eight?  He  sent  money  home  to  his  wife  every  month-  or,  rather,  to  his  uncle,  to  keep  for  his  wife-and  he  had  bought  himself  a  wa-  terproof  watch,  as  well  as  a  set  of  the  sort  of  well-cut  clothes  a  man  wears  in  a  city.  Not  that  he  went  into  the  city  itself  very  often.  As  he  had  no  papers,  it  was  risky  for  him  to  hang  about  the  streets.  He  was  safer  at  home,  in  Dauchope  Road,  in  the  anonymous  apron  of  do-  mestic  service.  He  had  long  ago  stopped  even  going  out  to  the  subur-  ban  post  office  or  the  shops;  he  always  asked  Mrs.  Morgan  to  buy  the  stamps  and  enve-  lopes  that  he  needed,  and  the  tobacco  with  which,  with  paper  from  the  pantry,  he  rolled  his  own  cigarettes.  On  his  days  off,  he  went  to  sit  in  the  rooms  of  other  exiles  like  himself,  men  from  his  own  vil-  lage  who  worked  in  the  suburbs,  foreigners  who  kept  a  wordless  fel-  lowship  beneath  their  conformity  of  Stetson  or  starched  uniform.  At  first,  he  sought  them  out  because  he  was  lost-in  all  the  world,  only  the  Nyasaland  vil-  lage  was  familiar  to  him-but  later,  as  the  years  went  by,  he  went  to  them  out  of  habit.  There  are  always,  even  in  the  most  cosmopoli-  tan  of  cities,  little  groups  of  men  who  have  forgotten  the  old  country  but  who  con-  tinue  to  meet  because  of  it.  When  he  had  first  come  back  to  Johannes-  " b"burg  after  he  was  mar-  ried,  he  had  been  moody  for  a  while.  He,  who  Mrs.  Morgan  said  was  the  &quot;nicest,  most  docile  person  in  the  world,&quot;  quarrelled  with  the  cook  and  then  took  offense  at  the  first  word  of  reproach  from  Mrs.  Morgan.  He  even  ran  the  risk  of  going  out  to  get  drunk  at  a  shebeen  one  night,  but  all  the  luxurious,  painful  pleas-  ure  ofa  debauch  was  lost  because  he  could  not  sit  in  the  sun  and  recover,  next  day,  as  they  did  at  home  in  Nyasaland,  but  had  to  be  in  attendance  at  a  luncheon  party.  &quot;I'm  sorry,  Gradwell,&quot;  Mrs.  Morgan  said,  firmly,  humorously,  &quot;but  you  must  go  through  with  it  today.  These  guests  are  people  we  stayed  with  at  the  Cape  last  year,  and  this  lunch  hasgot  to  be  decently  served.  Here,  take  this,  and  you'll  cope.  Any-  way,  if  you  feel  awful,  it'll  teach  you  not  to  get  into  the  habit  of  drinking,  which  is  just  as  well.&quot;  And  she  gave  him  two  Alka-Seltzer  tablets  in  a  glass  of  water.  It  was  true,  of  course,  that  if  he  began  to  drink  he  would  be  much  more  likely  to  be  picked  up  by  the  police.  The  Morgans,  too,  ran  a  risk  with  him;  while  he  would  be  packed  off  back  to  Nyasaland  or  drafted  to  farm  labor  if  he  were  found  out,  they  would  be  fined  a  few  pounds  for  employing  an  illegal  im-  migrant  from  another  territory.  &quot;It's  a  sort  of  little  conspiracy  we're  in  to-  gether,&quot;  Mrs.  Morgan  would  explain  to  friends  who  complimented  her  on  Gradwell's  efficiency.  But  soon  the  awareness  of  the  cighteen-year-old  girl,  his  wife,  wore  away-faded  off  his  mind  and  his  skin.  He  had  come  home  again,  to  Johannes-  burg,  to  Dauchope  Road,  to  sleep  alone  in  the  European  bed  and  the  decent  European  outbuilding  that  the  Mor-  gans  provided.  His  passions  hibernated.  He  never  thought  to  acclimatize  them;  this  was  not  home  for  them.  There  was  a  child,  born  to  the  girl  in  Nyasaland  some  months  after  he  had  gone.  He  felt  responsible,  jaunty,  and  somehow  ac-  cepted  into  the  world  of  men  when the  letter  came  telling  of  the  boy's  birth.  Mrs.  Morgan  sent  the  child  toys  at  Christmas,  and  wondered  that  Grad-  well  did  not  at  least  have  a  photograph  of  the  boy.  He  explained  that  there  would  be  no  one  in  the  village  with  a  camera.  Two  years  later,  there  was  a  letter  from  his  uncle  saying  that  the  child  had  died.  He  did  not  know  what  to  feel;  he  had  never  seen  it.  For  his  wife-  well,  next  time  he  went  back  he  would  make  another  child.  What  else  could  he  do?  He  had  a  post-office  savings  book  now  (Mrs.  Morgan  deposited  his  mon-  ey  for  him),  and  he  drew  out  some  money  and  bought  his  wife  a  dress.  He  was  even  quieter  than  usual  as  he  went  about  his  work.  The  Morgans  thought  he  was  depressed,  and  made  signs  of  understanding  and  commisera-  tion  to  each  other  behind  his  back,  but  the  truth  was  that  he  was  listening-  listening  to  himself.  Listening  for  some-  thing  to  sound,  some  note  from  within;  there  was  a  place  there,  at  his  breast-  bone.  But  nothing  came.  He  simply  went  on,  waiting  at  table,  cleaning  the  silver,  even  wiping  up  after  the  dog-there  was  a  new  dog  in  the  house,  a  bulldog  puppy.  In  the  afternoons,  he sat  in  the  yard  outside  his  room  in  the  sun,  wiped  a  piece  of  bread  round  his  dinner  plate,  and  was  content.  There  was  no  use  the  Morgans'  denying  it.  &quot;Next  year,  when  we  go  to  Europe,  we  must  take  a  chance  andyou  must  go  home  to  Nyasaland  while  we're  away,&quot;  Mrs.  Morgan  said.  &quot;We'll  have  to  try  and  work  something-some  sort  of  pass  that  looks  right.&quot;  When  she  tried  to  talk  to  him  about  Nyasaland,  she  was  always  a  little  embarrassed  to  discover  that  he  knew  absolutely  nothing  of  the  interesting  political  developments  among  the  Africans  there.  T  this  time,  Mrs.  Morgan  was  much  preoccupied  with  the  bull-  dog.  It  was  her  dog-she  had  admired  bulldogs  as  a  child,  in  a  fascinated,  hor-  rified  sort  of  way-and  Reg  Morgan  had  consented  to  buy  it  chiefly  because  there  had  been  such  an  outbreak  of  burglaries  in  Johannesburg  that  he  felt  it  was  timethey  had  a  really  good  watchdog  around  the  place.  The  Scot-  ties  were  alert  little  chaps,  but  one  couldn't  expect  anybody  to  be  deterred  from  entering  the  garden  by  the  sight  of  them.  When  the  bulldog  came,  he  " b'was  a  squat,  shambling  pup  py  ,  terrified  by  his  own  ability  to  knock  things  fly-  ing.  He  seemed  to  sense  the  world  of  inanimate  objects  cowering  before  him,  and  his  p  ower  appa  lle  d  him.  He  messed  all  over  the  house  and  ate  with  uncon-  trollable  gluttony,  often  disgorging  his  food  again  as  fast  as  it  went  down.  Mrs.  Morgan  adored  him;  her  child-  lessness  took  revenge  on  her  at  last,  and  she  cradled  a  beast.  She  loved  and  pe  tted  and  spoiled  the  Scotties,  but  for  the  bulldog  she  had  hopes-the  mark  of  the  real  maternal  p  assion.  &quot;Wait  till  I  train  him,&quot;  she  w  ould  sa  y.  &quot;To  us  he\'ll  be  the  nicest,  the  most  d  ocil  e  thing  in  the  world-a  h  andsome,  dignified,  well-  behaved,  clear  bully  boy.  And  to  those  wicked  b  urglars-  m  urder!&quot;  The  dog  grew  up.  He  slept  about  the  house  all  day,  but  the  muscles  of  a  pugilist  grew  on  his  thick  shoulders  and  his  barrel-bellied  body;  his  huge,  hard  head,  with  its  giant  nutcracker  ja  w  un-  de  r  the  flapping,  dribbling  chops,  could  push  you  downstairs  if  he  wanted  to  pass  you  on  the  top  step.  Gradwell  and  the  other  Morgan  serv  ants  hated  him  from  the  moment  they  set  eyes  on  him.  They  had  hated  him  even  before  then,  for  the  bulldog  was  the  sy  mbol  of  all  the  white  man\'s  savage  glee  in  turning  the  b  lack  man  fro  m  his  door.  The  dog  felt  their  hatred  and  showed  the  obscure  shame  of  a  beast,  flattening  his  little  hippopotamu  s  ears  on  his  ug  ly  head  as  he  went  past  them,  crouched  low  to  the  ground.  But  there  was  nothing  else  that  he  understood,  it  seemed.  Erica  Morgan  did  succe  ed  in  teaching  him  to  be  clean,  though  he  left  his  s  nail  trail  of  saliva  wherever  his  snout  brushed  by,  but  all  her  sensible  patie  nce  and  quiet,  con-  trolled  commands  could  not  teach  him  the  simplest  obedience.  And  as  for  be-  ing  a  watchdog,  he  slept  through  all  warnings  of  intruders  given  by  the  Scot-  ties,  and  allowed  st  range  rs  to  walk  past  him  up  to  the  fr  ont  door  without  so  much  as  a  bark.  It  had  proved  impos-  sible  to  anthropomorphize  him  into  a  handsome,  dignified,  well-behaved  bul-  ly  boy,  and  somewhere  along  the  un-  successful  process  he  had  lost  the  i  n-  sti  ncts  of  a  d  og,  into  the  bargain.  Erica  Morgan  was  disappointed  in  her  pet.  The  final  touch  came  when  she  found  a  lovely  mate  for  him,  a  beautiful,  brin-  dle  bully  gir  l  for  her  bully  boy.  The  bitch  was  brought  to  the  house  in  Dau-  chope  Road,  because  the  Morgans  thought  he  was  &quot;too  highly  strung&quot;  to  be  sent  to  the  kennels.  But  though  the  bulldog  and  the  bitch  were  given  carefully  supervised  privacy  and  were  shut  up  in  the  garden  shed  together  for  three  days,  the  poor  bulldog  would  not  mate.  When  he  was  released  at  last  from  the  shed,  he  ran  away  and  sat  with  his  fat,  miserable  back  hunched  against  the  door  of  Gradwell\'s  room-  Gradwell,  who  always  put  the  dog\'s  food  down  before  him  with  repugnance.  &quot;It\'s  no  good,  Gradwell,&quot;  Erica  Morgan  said  that  day,  with  irritation  and  exasperation,  clipping  the  lead  onto  the  bitch\'s  collar.  &quot;I\'ll  take  her  back  to  the  kennel.  Really,  I  az  fed  up.  If  at  least  we\'d  had  a  pup  from  him  .  ..&quot;  She  felt  she  could  say  anything  to  Grad-  well;  he  was  rather  a  favorite  of  hers  among  her  servants.  He  and  she  were,  as  she  put  it  to  herself,  two  human  be-  ings,  and  never  mind  the  color  or  the  master-servant  thing.  Gradwell  opened  the  garage  doors  and  the  gates  and  closed  them  again  be-  -Donaro  StEwart  hind  her  as  she  drove  away  with  the  bitch.  It  w  as  just  before  three  o\'clock  in  the  afternoon.  He  went  into  the  kitchen  and  fetch  ed  his  lunch,  which  was  in  the  oven,  keeping  warm.  The  other  servants  wer  e  already  in  their  rooms,  and  he  sat  down  o  n  a  barrel  in  the  yard  outside  his  roo  m,  making  a  threatening  movement  with  his  foot  to-  ward  the  bulldog  as  he  di  d  so.  But  the  beast,  unaware,  as  usu  al,  of  what  he  ha  d  done  wron  g,  but  always  conscious  of  wrongdoing,  of  failure,  only  shivered  with  appeal  along  his  thick  back,  and  pres  sed  a  gains  t  the  closed  door  of  th  e  room.  Th  e  man  sat  eating  bread  in  the  win-  ter  sun,  a  m  an  who  had  no  child,  who  slept  with  no  woman  ,  who  scarcely  e  ver  went  outside  the  gate  of  Erica  Morgan\'s  yard.  At  last,  something  moved  there  at  his  brea  stbone,  but  dully-a  depres-  sion.  He  broke  off  a  piece  of  bread  and threw it, saying in hi own language to the dog "here!" And startled, changing swiftly from the expectation of a blow, the dog snapped the morsels into it\'s great mouth.'