 b"I AM  sitting  on  a  bus  that  has  just  left  Sault  [REDACTED].  Marie,  Ontario.  I'm  going  to  work  at  the  uranium  mines.  I  drive  a  bulldozer,  and  the  mining  com-  pany  is  going  to  pay  me  a  fat  wage  for  a  couple  of  days'  work  clearing  an  area  at  the  edge  of  some  cliffs.  On  the  right  I  can  see  Lake  [REDACTED];  it  is  placid  this  morning.  The  sun  can't  seem  to  come  up.  Every  now  and  then  it  gives  another  try,  but  it's  stymied  by  the  thick  mists,  which  are  everywhere.  I  can  see  tall  rushes  all  along  the  banks  of  the  lake.  They  are  very  graceful,  bending  their  heads,  lacing  them  in  and  out  of  the  mists.  Well,  the  lake  isn't  much  up  here,  but  it  goes  south,  down  to  the  big  cities  on  my  right.  Often  on  the  Great  Lakes  you  can  see  the  ore  boats  that  come  from  the  mines  in  [REDACTED],  especially  if  you  happen  tobe  at  some  place  where  the  channel  is  narrow.  And  you  can  see  freighters  from  other  countries,  too,  ships  that  have  crossed  the  oceans.  I  re-  member  my  own  short  experience  on  the  sea.  I  was  young  at  the  time.  ...  Salt  has  always  troubled  me,  and  that  day  it  lay  all  about  us  in  the  sun's  pallid  glare-splinters  of  salt,  half  out  of  solu-  tion.  There  was  so  much  salt  it  seemed  that  it  had  risen  from  the  sea  and  per-  meated  the  air,  too.  It  pricked  and  stung  our  skins;  the  paint  on  the  steel  all  around  us  gaveup  without  much  of  a  struggle,  and  on  the  steel  itself,  where  the  paint  had  flaked  away,  there  were  big  rust  sores.  The  rust  and  the  flaked  paint  had  to  be  chipped  off  with  ham-  mers  by  the  crew.  I  was  the  &quot;fifth  mate&quot;  on  a  cargo  ship  travelling  the  [REDACTED]  Kong-Liverpool  run-&quot;fifth  mate&quot;  was  what  the  crew  called  me  because  I  was  the  only  child  on  the  ship.  Someone  gave  me  a  hammer  so  that  I,  too,  could  pound,  and  we  banged  away  at  the  steel,  seeming  only  to  open  up  more  surface  for  the  salt  to  work  on.  The  whole  ship  was  alive  to  the  sound  of  the  hammers.  Some  beat  on  hollow  steel,  some  on  solid  steel,  arranging  their  strokes  to  an  in-  cessant,  repetitive  rhythm.  The  sun  pressed  down  upon  us.  The  hammer  sounds  seemed  to  be  a  plea  to  the  sun  to  change,  to  alter  the  flow  of  its  beams  in  some  way.  Just  a  little-any  way  would  have  been  a  change.  But  there  was  no  answer  except  the  steady  pres-  sureof  the  sun  upon  the  wet  handker-  chiefs  we  had  knotted  into  hats-  flimsy  tissues  that  were  baked  dry  by  the  sun  as  soon  as  we  could  wet  them....  Well,  we're  beginning  to  get  away  from  the  lake  now.  It  looks,  too,as  though  it  may  rain.  The  land  on  my  right  is  poor.  All  over  the  fields  there  are  outcroppings  of  rock.  I  wonder  how  anyone  can  make  a  living  from  this  meagre  soil.  In  my  mind,  I  can  see  acrossthe  water  southward  to  where  there  are  all  those  lush  fields  and  red  barns.  ...  Another  day  on  that  ship,  in  the  tail  ofa  typhoon,  I  stood  by  the  rail-  ing  on  the  upper  deck  watching  the  sailors  in  oilskins  fighting  to  get  across  the  open  stretch  of  the  main  deck  be-  low  me.  They  gripped  the  sides  of  the  hatches  as  they  went.  I  was  not  afraid;  I  had  a  good  hold  on  the  railing,  and  the  upper  deck  was  still  dry.  As  the  waves  pounded  the  ship,  they  would  disinte-  grate  into  clouds  of  spray  that  flung  themselves  at  my  face,  slapping  me  with  little  stings.  The  waves  didn't  come  in  any  regular  pattern,  so  now  we  were  wallowing  sidewise,  now  we  were  pitched  up  and  down.  Even  as  unor-  dered  as  they  were,  they  seemed  to  be  toying  with  the  ship.  And  all  the  while  the  wind  screamed  around  the  sky,  shunting  the  clouds  off  to  the  horizon.  Nearer  the  ship,  the  wind  lifted  the  tops  off  random  waves  and  made  them  into  flying  barrages  of  spray.  With  each  heave  of  the  ship,  streams  of  water  fought  witheach  other  to  get  out  at  the  scuppers-as  though  someone  had  cried  &quot;Fire!  to  be  met  by  a  new  wave  and  thrown  into  the  ship  again.  I  was  looking  the  other  way  when  a  great  wave  broke  over  the  upper  deck.  If  I  hadn't  been  gripping  the  rail,  it  would  have  taken  me  with  it,  that  wave.  As  it  was,  it  swept  my  feet  out  from  un-  der  me-I  can  still  remember  the  salt  water  swilling  about  my  bare  legs  (I  was  wearing  shorts).  I  lay  in  midair  for  those  mo-  ments,  held  only  by  my  hands.  Some-  one  finally  came  out  from  the  cabin  be-  hind  me  and  hoisted  me  inside.  ...  HE  bus  I  am  on  is  a  local,  as  slow  as  a  milk  train.  We  stop  often  to  pick  up  Indians  who  are  going  into  the  market  town  some  miles  down  the  high-  way.  They  come  in  from  little  roads  and  wait  by  the  side  of  the  highway  for  us.  Then  they  flag  us.  Gradually,  the  bus  fills  with  them.  They  sit  impassive  in  the  seats.  It's  true  that,  unless  theywish  them  to,  the  Indians'  faces  show  no  emo-  tion.  The  towns  we  come  to  gradually  grow  larger,  though  they  are  still  puny.  Finally,  we  come  to  the  one  town  where  the  Indians  are  getting  off.  There  are  no  sidewalks,  only  pools  of  mud.  The  Indians  all  wear  boots.  I  can  imagine     31  how  they  will  spend  their  time.  They  will  buy  the  little  they  can  afford.  Later  in  the  day,  they  may  go  to  some  West-  ern.  Still  later,  they  will  crowd  onto  the  evening  bus  going  the  other  way.  Grad-  ually,  the  bus  will  get  less  crowded.  They  will  stand  by  the  driver  and  tell  him  exactly  where  to  stop-by  narrow  tracks  that,  however  rough,  are  the  paths  to  their  homes,  And  late,  when  it  is  dark,  the  driver  will  pull  into  Sault  [REDACTED].  Marie  with  an  almost  empty  bus.  I  am  very  careful  by  nature.  I  think  that's  why  the  people  up  at  the  uranium  mines  have  asked  me  to  come,  since  the  job  is  going  to  be  a  risky  one.  When-  ever  I  sit  in  a  bus,  I  plan  exactly  what  I  would  do  in  case  of  an  accident.  I  know  where  the  emergency  door  is  and  I  know  about  the  windows  that  push  out.  I  think  of  how  I  would  release  peo-  ple  trapped  in  seats.  I  have  ways  to  put  out  fires.  ...  I  was  at  a  small  town  beside  a  lake,  where  the  people  were  having  a  regatta.  There  had  been  swimming  and  canoe-  ing  races  all  morning.  Now,  in  the  blaz-  ing  sun  of  early  afternoon,  they  were  holding  the  motorboat  races.  People  from  the  surrounding  area  had  brought  their  boats,  and  there  were  some  exhibi-  tion  teams  sponsored  by  outboard-motor  companies.  I  sat  on  the  grass  watching  the  races.  The  little  Sea  Fleas  are  the  most  exciting  to  watch.  Seeing  them  plane  around  a  curve  is  really  some-  thing,  and  there  are  those  miniature  rooster  tails  that  they  kick  up  behind  themselves.  Halfway  through  the  afternoon,  I  saw  one  of  the  patrol  boats  go  to  the  far  side  of  the  racecourse.  I  couldn't  see  it  clearly,  because  of  the  big  sun  and  the  glare  of  the  water.  A  little  later  it  came  in  to  the  dock.  A  man  was  lifted  out  with  some  aqualung  equipment  strapped  on  his  back.  There  were  two  diagonal  slashes,  neatly  parallel,  on  his  forehead.  Blood  poured  from  the  wounds  and  gathered  around  his  eyes.  Then  I  couldn't  see  anymore,  because  people  crowded  around  him.  All  I  could  see  was  some  well-meaning  idiot  who  had  tried  to  give  mouth-to-mouth  res-  piration.  His  mouth  was  ringed  with  a  wide  circle  of  blood.  And  as  he  stood  there  on  the  dock,  the  blood  dripped  from  the  ring  in  vertical  lines.  Some  of  it  fell  on  his  bare  chest,  where  it  was  di-  luted  into  thin  streams  in  his  sweat.  The  sun  hardened  it  into  crust  before  he  no-  ticed  it.  It  was  all  so  needless,  because  the  man  was  breathing,  even  if  he  was  un-  conscious.  He  had  been  out  diving  for  a  lost  outboard  motor,  I  learned  lat-  " b"er.  He  thought  he  was  outside  the  course  and  surfaced,  but  he  surfaced  inside  it.  No  one  ever  knew  which  of  the  boats  hit  him.  I  wonder  if  he  had  even  the  small-  est  hint  of  whatwas  going  to  happen  to  him.  He  must  have  heard  the  drone  of  the  motors  underwater,  because  you  can  hear  so  far  underwater.  I  suppose  he  must  have  run  out  of  air,  and  decided  to  surface  in  a  panic,  gasping  for  breath.  The  sound  of  a  motor  under  the  water  is  the  same  if  you  are  ten  or  a  hundred  feet  from  it.  Add  all  the  motors  togeth-  er.  Then  the  surprise,  and  the  two  swift  strokes  of  the  propeller  on  the  skull.  ..  .  I  move  across  the  aisle  to  a  vacant  seat  on  the  left-hand  side  of  the  bus.  The  sky  above  us  is  gray,  but,  looking  out  the  window,  I  can  see  the  sun  play-  ing  with  the  tops  of  some  hills  in  the  distance.  On  the  left  there  are  a  few,  very  few,  farms.  Then  beyond  there  are  hundreds  of  miles  of  brush  and  tim-  ber  and  a  few  railway  tracks  between  the  highway  and  Hudson  Bay.  Peo-  ple?  A  few,  scattered  desultorily  over  the  face  of  the  land-not  enough  to  subdue  it.  The  driver  is  going  up  a  gen-  tle  hill  now.  He  will  have  to  shift  down from  fourth  to  third.  He  pushes  in  the  clutch  and  shifts  into  neutral.  For  a  mo-  ment  there  is  the  sound  of  the  racing  of  the  engine,  and  then,  as  the  driver  pushes  in  theclutch  and  shifts  into  third,  there  is  the  reassuring  sound  of  the  low-  er-whining  engine.  I  wish  the  sun  would  come  out.  It  is  warm  enough,  but  I'd  like  to  see  the  land  about  me  under  a  different  light.  The  lake  is  completely  behind  us  now,  and  we  are  going  farther  inland  at  ev-  ery  moment.  The  land  is  changing,  too.  It's  more  hilly.  Just  now  the  driver  had  to  shift  to  second  for  a  while.  I  don't  think  he  would  have  had  to  shift  if  the  truck  ahead  wasn't  going  so  slowly-  but  he  might  have.  I've  driven  a  bull-  dozer  in  all  kinds  of  country.  I  can  ap-  preciate  the  way  thedriver  changes  gears.  I'm  going  to  be  driving  in  dan-  gerous  country  this  time,  and  I'll  be  getting  good  pay.  'The  company  has  to  clear  an  area  at  the  edge  of  some  high  cliffs.  They  say  that  two  men  have  gone  over  already.  I  don't  know  wheth-  er  the  men  were  just  careless  or  whether  the  cliffs  are  made  of  some  flaky  rock.  I've  always  been  very  careful,  and  I    think  I  have  areputation  among  the  fellows  for  being  careful.  That's  why  I  was  offered  the  job.  We  cross  a  small,  muddy  river.  When  I  was  a  kid,  I  had  a  penchant  for  rivers.  I  used  to  read  books  about  the  steppes  of  Central  Asia,  and  about  the  rivers  that  empty  into  the  Arctic  Ocean.  The  Lena,  the  Yen'sei,  the  [REDACTED].  God,  how  glorious  it  must  be  to  stand  up  there  far  away  from  everyone  and  watch  those  great  rivers  empty  them-  selves  into  the  sea,  unmindful  of  the  rest  of  the  world.  No  dams  across  them.  They  flow  free  and  powerful,  gliding  luxuriously  by  their  virgin  banks.  We  stop  at  a  town,  where  I  get  out  to  stretch  my  legs.  It  feels  good  to  walk.  I  like  the  feeling  of  the  ground  under  my  feet.  I  get  some  coffee  at  a  lunch  stand.  I  climb  backonto  the  bus  and  sink  into  the  seat  again.  It  won't  be  long  before  I  have  to  get  out  and  wait  for  the  man  who  is  going  to  take  me  up  to  the  cliffs.  I  wonder  how  the  men  fell.  What  did  they  think  as  they  hurtled  through  the  air?  Did  they  stay  with  the  bulldozers  to  the  end,  or  did  they  man-  age  to  fall  free?  I  wonder,  was  it  all  one  free,  swaying  fall?  I  think  it  must  have  been  like  some  rapids  I  know.  They  were  perhaps  thirty  yards  long,  with  the  bedrock  worn  smooth  by  centuries  of  flow  to  a  gradient  of  about  thirty  degrees.  Usually  there  was  onlya  six-inch  layer  of  water  flowing  over  the  rock,  and  a  swimmer  could  slide  down  without  any  fear.  At  the  bottom  there  was  a  pool  cut  from  the  rock  by  the  swirling  current  of  the  river.  The  rock  was  rounded  so  that  it  forced  the  waters  into  a  whirlpool.  And  when  the  water  was  low  you  were  tossed  intothat  pool,  swirled  around  its  outer  limit,  and  gently  pushed  out  into  the  main  stream  once  again.  But  after  a  rain  the  water  flowed  white  and  heavy.  You  swam  at  your  own  risk.  Everyone  knew  that  several  people  had  drowned  in  the  rapids,  and  yet  people  still  swam  there.  There  was  some  sort  of  strange  attraction  to  it.  You  wondered  if  you  dared  let  yourself  loose  into  the  tumbling  " b" water.  You  wondered  whether  you  had  the  guts  to  let  the  cur-  rent  carry  you  where  it  would,  without  fighting  it  a  bit.  They  say  that  a  whirlpool  will  always  toss  you  out,  of  its  own  accord,  if  you  don't  fight  it.  But  the  guts  it  takes  toward  the  end!  You  want  to  beat  it,  to  thread  your  way  up  to  the  top  of  the  vortex  to  relieve  your  bursting  lungs.  No  one  ever  tries  the  rapids,  though,  after  the  spring  thaw.  When  the  river  is  as  swollen  as  itis  in  the  spring,  you  know  that,  fight  it  or  give  in  to  it,  you  will  be  swirled  to  the  bottom  and  won't  come  up  again.  It  must  havebeen  like  that  for  the  men  who  fell  from  the  cliff.  They  got  tumbled  into  it.  No  amount  of  flailing  of  pinwheel  arms  would  do  any  good.  But  if  it  wasn't  for  the  lungs  and  the  fear,  what  a  ride!  HE  driver  stops  the  bus  and  calls  to  me  that  this  is  where  I  get  off.  I'm  a  little  surprised  and  not  quite  ready,  to  tell  the  truth,  because  I  thought  that  I  had  a  little  far-  ther  to  go.  I  take  my  bag  and  get  off  the  bus  hurriedly.  I  stand  by  the  side  of  the  highway  and  watch  the  bus  and  lis-  ten  to  the  skillful  changing  of  gears  as  the  bus  starts  up.  Of  course,  it's  not  diffi-  cult  with  a  bus  on  a  flat  road,  but  still  there  is  a  certain  rhythm  to  it,  a  certain  rising  in  pitch  that  I  like.  I  cross  the  highway  and  sit  on  a  rock  by  the  side  of  the  gravel  road  that  runs  into  the  highway.  I  wait  for  someone  to  come  to  take  me  up  to  the  cliffs.  I  suppose  they  have  some  sort  of  head-  quarters  there,  where  a  few  people  live.  The  man  does  not  come  for  some  time.  The  sun  has  been  glimmering  feebly  through  the  haze,  and  I  doze  with  my  head  against  a  rock.  I  am  in  that  most  pleasant  state  of  all  for  humans-half  awake  and  half  asleep.  I  know  that  I'm  dreaming,  and  the  dream  flows  in  my  head,  yet  I  have  just  a  little  initiative  left.  I  can  change  the  direction  of  the  flow  by  little  exertions  of  will.  .  ..  I'm  careering  through  the  night  in  a  small  foreign  car.  The  other  two  in  the  car,  one  beside  me  and  one  be-  hind,  are  telling  stories  while  I  drive.  We  are  driving  through  the  tail  end  of  a  hurricane,  named,  as  always,  for  a  woman-Deborah.  'Thewild  wind  sweeps  us  back  and  forth  across  the  highway.  The  wind  is  throwing  buck-  etfuls  of  rain  atthe  windshield,  and  inside  we  are  smoking  the  Dutch  cigarillos  that  we  have  bought  somewhere.  The  smoke  inside  and  the  rain  outside  make  it  nearly  impossible  to  see.  Only  oc-  casionally  do  I  catch  a  glimpse  of  the  white  line  in  the  center  of  the  road.  I  am  surprised  sometimes  tosee  it  on  my  right-hand  side,  But  I  don't  care.  There  has  been  a  drought  in  this  part  of  the  country.  Now  all  the  frogs,  which  have  stayed  at  home  during  the  drought,  are  leaping  about  the  road,  mad  with  unbelief  at  the  rain.  We  kill  hundreds  of  the  frogs  as  we  career  along.  There  is  nothing  else  for  it.  They  insist  on  danc-  ing  on  the  road,  and  we  have  to  use  it,  too.  I  see  their  white  bellies  all  over  as  they  leap.  We  can't  open  the  window  to  let  out  the  blue  smoke,  which  is  stifling  us,  because  we  will  be  drenched  if  we  do.  It  never  occurs  to  us  to  stop  smoking.  The  fellow  in  the  back  seat  is  telling  a  hilarious  story  about  a  dolphin  who  swallowed  a  whale.  He  rests  his  arms  on  the  back  of  the  front  seat  and  leans  forward  so  that  both  of  us  in  the  front  seat  can  hear  it.  We  stop  at  a  hamburger  joint  and  drink  coffee.  We  change  drivers,  so  it  is  my  turn  to  sit  be-  side  the  driver.  Then  the  road  comes  to  a  stop  in  the  middle  of  nowhere.  We  see  that  if  we  hadn't  stopped  we  would  have  dropped  over  an  embankment  and  into  a  swollen  river.  We  turn  around  \xc2\xae  and  a  great  truck  hurtles  toward  us.  .  ..  No.  It  is  a  jeep.  I  open  my  eyes  and  see  that  ajeep  has  stopped  near  me.  The  muscular  Indian  driver  is  getting  out  and  coming  toward  me.  I  get  up  and  wipe  my  hands  over  my  eyes  to  wake  myself  up  completely.  He  puts  my  bag  into  the  back  of  the  jeep.  I  climb  in,  and  we  set  off  away  from  the  highway.  After  climbing  over  a  low  hill  we  do  not  even  see  it  any  more.  'The  driver  doesn't  seem  eager  to  talk,  and  in  any  case  it  is  hard  to  hear  above  the  sound  of  the  wheels  on  the  gravel  road.  We  are  travelling  along  a  fairly  level  stretch  now,  with  brush  and  second  growthon  each  side  of  us.  I  was  a  little  reluctant  to  leave  the  highway,  but  I  don't  complain,  since  I  will  be  driving  the  bulldozer  tomorrow  and  I  have  the  promise  of  pretty  fat  pay.  People  use  &quot;bulldozer&quot;  in  the  same  way  they  use  &quot;bludgeon&quot;  and  &quot;bull  in  a  china  shop.&quot;  But  the  Cats  can  be  instruments  as  delicate  and  powerful  as  any  trained  elephant.  It's  comforting  to  know,  when  I  drive,  that  the  great  engine  is  throb-  bing  and  straining  ahead  of  me.  I've  got  so  that  I  can  tell  exactly  how  a  bull-  dozer  will  act  at  any  time.  Each  one  is  a  little  different  from  the  next.  You  have  to  have  an  understanding  with  the  machine.  &quot;What?  An  understanding  with  a  machine?&quot;  'They  all  laugh.  But  " b"I  don't  care,  you  have  to.  Only  then  does  it  become  your  instrument....  My  baptism  as  a  driver  was  by  fire.  I  was  still  new  to  bulldozers  at  the  time-too  new,  thought  my  boss.  A  call  came  in  for  volunteers  to  fight  a  mammoth  forest  fire  that  was  approach-  ing  a  town  fifty  miles  from  where  we  were  working.  People  were  needed  who  could  operate  heavy  equipment,  so  my  boss  let  me  go,  with  a  curse  that  covered  up  his  blessing.  The  men  who  volun-  teered  rode  to  the  fire  in  an  open  truck.  I  can  still  remember  how  I  stood  at  the  front  of  the  truck  and  watched  for  the  fire.  I  began  to  see  the  smoke  miles  away;  then,  as  we  came  closer,  I  saw  the  great  leaping  flames.  When  a  lull  in  the  wind  let  the  flames  die  down,  the  people  at  the  headquarters  took  me  to  a  bull-  dozer  and  told  me  to  try  and  cut  a  fire  line  through  the  woods-a  clear  swath  beyond  which  the  fire  could  not  burn.  I  drove  that  machine  for  hours  on  end,  stopping  only  to  refuel.  There  was  al-  ways  the  danger  that  the  bulldozer  would  become  so  hot  that  it  would  catch  on  fire.  We  were  given  heavy  clothes  to  wear.  The  whole  time  has  jelled  into  one  mass  of  flame,  smoke,  and  sweat  in  my  mind.  They  told  me  later  that  I  had  driven  for  thirty-six  hours.  I  don't  remember.  Several  times,  the  lines  that  we  cleared  were  won  over  by  the  fire.  Several  times,  we  retreated  and  began  all  over  again  to  clear  the  second  growth  away,  until,  finally,  we  were  all  so  ex-  hausted  that  we  could  only  make  one  last  stand.  We  cleared  one  final  line  and  then  sat  back  to  watch  as  some  men  set  a  backfire.  And  from  my  vantage  point  on  the  bulldozer  seat  I  saw  how  the  two  fires  approached  and  mingled  fiercely  with  each  other.  And  I  saw  how  the  wind,  which  had  been  playing  tricks  with  us  for  all  that  time,  held  steady.  'The  trunks  smoldered  to  em-  bers  while  we  slept.  I  left  a  scarred  bulldozer  behind  me.  The  paint  had  blistered  from  the  heat.  ...  The  Indian  driver  begins  to  go  up  into  slightly  higher  country  now.  'The  gravel  road  is  still  quite  good,  and  the  gradient  is  even.  I  can  see  that  someone  has  done  good  work  with  a  bulldozer,  and  I  am  glad,  because  it  probably  means  that  there  are  other  drivers  up  at  the  cliffs  who  know  their  machines.  We're  a  fairly  small  bunch,  those  of  us  who  drive  the  big  Cats  in  hard  places.  We  see  each  other,  off  and  on,  at  differ-  ent  jobs.  It  is  a  strange  life-tossed  to-  gether  for  the  length  of  a  job,  usually  in  some  out-of-the-way  place,  then  sepa-  rating  at  the  end  of  the  job  and  picking  up  again  much  later  as  though  no  time  had  come  between.  The  driver  is  going  up  a  pretty  steep  hill  now.  There  is  no  need  to  double-  clutch  in  a  jeep,  because  it's  sucha  light  machine.  The  driver  pushes  in  the  clutch  and  there  is  quite  a  gap  of  time  while  the  gear  tries  to  find  a  com-  fortable  niche  for  itself;  then  it  slips  in.  We  whine  up  the  hill  now  in  second  gear.  A  jeep  engine  is  small,  but  it  is  well  geared,  and  riding  in  second  on  even  such  an  easy  gradient  as  this  gives  me  a  good  feeling.  The  day  is  wearing  on,  though,  and  as  I  am  pretty  tired,  I  fall  asleepfor  a  while.  I  wake  when  thedriver  stops  and  engages  the  four-wheel  drive.  We  are  in  much  rougher  country  now,  I  see.  The  road  is  broken  up  into  short  pitches  of  upstretch  and  bits  of  downstretch.  But  I  have  the  feeling  that  we  are  most-  ly  moving  up.  The  gears  whine  at  a  lower  ratio  now,  because  of  the  increased  drag  of  the  other  drive.  This  driver  is  pretty  good.  He  shifts  atjust  the  right  " b"places  on  the  road.  And  he  knows  how  to  use  the  gear  s  for  braking.  Now  we  go  down  some  hairpin  turns,  an  d  I  push  my  fe  et  against  the  floorboards  in  spite  of  myself.  Now  we  are  at  the  bot  tom,  and  we  pa  ss  through  a  shallow,  clean  str  eam.  We  travel  on  a  level  stretch  for  a  short  time.  A  faint  gl  ow  behind  the  clouds  to  the  west  t  ells  me  that  the  sun  is  about  ready  to  set.  We  still  have  to  go  up  the  hill  that  I  see  ah  ead  of  us.  I  think  of  my  job  on  the  cliffs  tomor-  row.  I've  worked  in  a  lmost  e  very  kind  of  country  you  can  name,  bu  t  I've  never  worked  on  the  edge  of  cliffs.  Nothing  can  happen  i  f  you're  careful.  I  have  a  reputation  for  carefulness  among  the  other  drivers.  That  's  probabl  y  why  the  company  wa  nts  me.  'They  are  certainly  giving  me  good  pay.  We  begin  t  o  c  limb  this  hill,  which  I  think  will  be  the  last.  I  sit  forward,  be-  cause  of  the  steepness,  so  that  I  can  see  what  is  ahead  on  the  road.  I  notice  for  the  first  time  that  I  am  covered  with  dust.  It  begins  to  grow  dark  quickly  now.  The  Indian  turns  on  the  lights,  but  the  road  is  so  crooked  that  the  lights  never  stay  on  it  for  longer  than  a  second.  The  driver  seems  to  kno  w  the  road.  I  sit  forward,  though,  holding  on  to  th  e  dashboard.  And  just  ahead  of  me  I  hear  the  steady  grind  of  the  engine.  It  churn  s  out  t  he  yards  behind  us.  ..  .  I  am  on  a  beach  on  the  coast,  far  from  t  he  beaches  wh  ere  touri  st  s  go.  Though  the  sun  is  setting,  it  is  still  hot.  The  tide  is  out  and  there  are  acres  and  acres  of  hard-  packed  sand.  Up  where  the  water  neve  r  comes  there  is  loose  sand.  Tall,  cutting  rushes  gr  ow  at  the  edges  of  the  l  oose  sand,  fencing  the  beach  off,  except  in  one  place  where  a  stream  ru  ns  into  the  ocean.  We  stand-  there  is  a  woman  with  me-in  the  ankle-deep  waters,  and  I  wonder  whether  the  salt  water  has  already  in-  fected  the  clean  water  of  t  he  stream.  The  str  ea  m  hascut  through  the  sand  of  the  beach,  and  I  se  e  how  caref  ull  y  the  sand  has  been  laid  down.  And  I  see  that  tomorrow  the  stream  may  not  even  run  this  same  course.  Far  across  the  hard  sand,  the  breakers  are  swishing  in.  The  sound  comes  to  us  a  little  later  than  the  sight.  The  air  grows  cooler,  so  we  join  our  hands  and  run  along  the  hard-  packed  sand,  We  run  and  run  until  our  lungs  will  bear  it  no  longer.  Then  we  fall  on  the  sand,  gasping.  That  night  we  sleep  on  the  beach,  listening  to  the  sound  of  the  wind  in  the  rushes  behind  us  and  to  the  coming  of  the  tide  before  us.  ...  HE  Indian  driver  turns  around  a  bend  and  I  see  a  clearing  that  must  be  the  headquarters.  He  stops  the  jeep.  I  climb  out.  The  ground  beneath  my  feet  feels  strange  after  so  much  riding.  It's  like  after  being  on  the  ocean,  when  you  can  still  feel  the  heaving  of  the  ship  hours  after  you  dock.  The  headquar-  ters  people  show  me  to  the  kitchen,  where  they  have  saved  some  food  for  the  Indian  and  me.  I  eat.  I  go  to  the  cabin  where  my  bunk  is.  I  undress  quickly  and  climb  into  bed.  I  fall  asleep  very  soon,  looking  forward  to  tomorrow's  work  on  the  edge  of  the  cliffs  (I  am  careful)  and  remembering  how,  when  I  was  a  child,  I  used  to  want  sleep  to  come  so  that  my  birthday  the  next  day  would  be  there  all  the  sooner. "