 b"America's  Best  Premium  Bourbon     " b"IN  the  summer  of  1938,  my  father  the  city  of  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  In  this  _  capacity,  he  was  responsible  for  a  clutter  of  things,  including  a  golf  course,  swim-  ming  pools,  parks,  tennis  courts,  out-  door  theatres,  and  a  zoo.  It  was  the  zoo  that  caught  his  imagination.  In  no  time,  it  had  absorbed  all  of  his  creative  energy.  Our  zoo  was  not  large.  It  probably  had,  in  fact,  less  than  two  hundred  specimens,  but  it  was  clean  and  the  ani-  mals  were  cheerful  and  well  fed.  In  my  father's  imagination,  he  could  see  this  little  assortment  as  the  nucleus  of  a  great  exhibition  that  would  be  the  pride  of  the  city  and  the  delight  of  the  Middle  West  for  years  to  come.  &quot;With  a  little  money  and  just  a  little  ...&quot;  he'd  say,  and  then  go  on  to  elaborate.  Unfortunately,  in  1938  [REDACTED]  was  still  recovering  from  the  depression,  and,  as  the  City  Commissioner  put  it,  &quot;I  can't  find  cash  to  pay  the  firemen,  much  less  feed  some  moldy  monkeys!&quot;  I  had  finished  high  school  that  spring  and  had  got  a  summer  job  at  the  J.  C.  Penney  store  in  order  to  earn  some  money  for  college.  Isold  shirts,  socks,  and  ties,  at  a  counter  in  the  basement,  Mondays  through  Saturdays,  Wednes-  day  afternoons  off.  It  was  onone  of  these  Wednesdays  in  August  that  my  father  and  I  took  the  first  innocent  step  toward  zoological  chaos.  Until  you  have  known  a  [REDACTED]  afternoon  in  August,  you  have  known  life  only  superficially.  The  heat  shimmers  off  the  buildings,  the  sky  takes  on  a  brilliant  yellow  white-  ness  that  pulses  at  your  eyeballs,  and  through  it  all  there's  the  steady,  twenty-  mile-an-hour  wind  that  peels  the  scalp  from  the  head.  On  this  particular  Wednesday  afternoon,  I  had  with-  drawn  to  the  basement  of  our  house  and  was  stripped  down  to  my  underwear  be-  tween  two  electric  fans  when  my  father  telephoned.  Did  I  want  to  join  him  in  a  ride  to  the  country?  When  I  asked  what  for,  he  said,  &quot;Well,  there's  a  farmer  near  Haven  who  says  he's  found  a  peli-  can  in  front  of  his  house  and  he  wants  to  know  if  we  want  it.&quot;  [REDACTED]  is  dead  center  in  the  prairie,  a  long  way  from  the  nearest  pelican  water,  and  Father  added,  &quot;It's  obviously  not  a  pelican,  but  we  think  he  may  have  some  sort  of  crane  or  heron  that  might  be  interest-  ing.  He  says  he's  got  it  cornered  in  the  barn.  Want  to  come  along?&quot;  Father  was  clearly  excited,  so  I  agreed,  despite  the  heat.  In  about  fifteen  minutes,  he  arrived  in  our  family  car  and  we  headed  west.  The  heat  was  " b"worse  than  I'd  feared.  It  boiled  up  off  the  road  and  swirled  in  from  the  wheat  fields.  The  metal  in  the  car  burned  to  the  touch,  and  the  upholstery  prickled.  By  the  time  we'd  found  the  farm,  pulled  off  the  road,  and  driven  in  to  the  house,  both  my  father  and  I  were  riding  in  clenched  silence.  I  kept  thinking  that  if  the  bird  turned  out  to  be  athin  turkey  or  a  pale  goose,  Father  might  well  hit  somebody.  The  farmer  was  off  his  porch  by  the  time  we'd  stopped  the  car.  Father  iden-  tified  us  rather  formally,  and  we  started  for  the  barn.  On  the  way,  the  farmer  sketched  out  the  situation.  &quot;I  was  com-  ing  in  with  the  tractor  and  saw  this  thing  flying  back  and  forth  along  the  highway.  I  called  to  the  wife  and  we  watched  him  from  our  porch  for  maybe  five  minutes.  Then  he  sort  of  took  a  sight  down  the  middle  of  the  road  and  come  in  for  a  landing,  with  his  feet  out  and  his  head  back.  He  hit  like  a  bag  of  feed  and  knocked  himself  cold.  Just  skidded  along  in  a  heap.  I  thought  he  was  dead,  so  I  went  out  to  drag  him  off  the  road.  I'd  got  him  halfway  to  the  barn  when  he  began  toflop  around,  so  I  just  pulled  him  the  rest  of  the  way  and  heaved  him  in  the  grain  room.  That's  where  he's  at  now,  good  as  new.&quot;  We  reached  the  barn,  and  the  farmer  rolled  back  the  door  enough  for  us  to  slip  through.  With  the  door  closed  again,  the  barn  was  quite  dark  and  as-  tonishingly  cool.  It  took  a  moment  to  adjust  from  the  brilliance  outside,  and  then  we  followed  the  farmer  to  an  in-  side  wall,  where  he  squinted  through  a  crack  between  the  boards.  We  squinted,  too,  and  found  ourselves  staring  ata  huge  and  angry  pelican  that  was  strid-  ing  back  and  forth  on  the  mounds  of  threshed  wheat.  He  stood  almost  four  feet  tall  and  weighed  at  least  twenty  pounds-all  mad.  Father  was  delighted,  and  said  so.  We  got  some  burlap  sacks  and  cord  from  the  car  and  slipped  into  the  grain  room.  While  Father  baited  the  pelican  with  one  sackheld  like  a  bullfighter's  cape,  I  eased  another  one  over  the  bird's  head,  and  after  a  short  struggle  we  got  him  fully  sacked,  tied,  and  into  the  back  of  the  car.  There  we  removed  the  bag  from  his  head  and  he  lay  trussed  on  the  floor,  and  madder  than  ever.  The  two  men  then  discussed  where  the  bird  had  come  from.  As  Father  pointed  out,  there  were  wild  pelicans  on  the  [REDACTED]  coast  and  along  the  Mis-  sissippi,  but  mighty  few  in  the  wheat  fields  of  [REDACTED].  The  bird's  wings  showed  no  sign  of  ever  having  been" b"clipped,  so  it  was  unlikely  he'd  escaped  from  a  zoo.  Father's  conclusion  was  that  he'd  started  up  the  [REDACTED],  wan-  dered  off  on  one  of  the  tributaries,  and  just  kept  making  wrong  turns  till  he'd  worked  his  way  out  onto  the  plains.  Father  wanted  to  know  more  about  how  he  came  to  be  caught.  &quot;Did  he  look  sick?  Did  he  act  hurt  when  he  was  fly-  ing?&quot;  he  asked  the  farmer.  Nope.  Looked  in  fine  shape.  Let  me  show  you  where  he  landed.&quot;  We  followed  the  farmer  down  his  driveway  and  out  to  the  highway.  He  turned  toward  the  west,  and  it  was  then  clear  what  had  happened.  As  we  looked  along  the  asphalt  road,  the  sun  beat  down  on  its  surface  and  radiated  back  in  great  shimmering  heat  waves.  'The  miserable  bird  had  obviously  been  flying,  maybe  for  hours,  across  dry  wheat  stub-  ble  and  had  suddenly  spotted  what  he  thought  was  a  long  black  river,  thin  but  wet,  right  in  the  midst  of  the  prairie.  He  had  put  down  for  a  cooling  swim  and  knocked  himself  unconscious.  We  thanked  the  farmer  and  drove  off  to  town.  The  [REDACTED]  zoo  lies  in  a  bend  of  the  Little  [REDACTED]  River  and  is  shaded  by  enormous  elms  and  syca-  mores,  making  it  cool  and  green.  Once  there,  we  clipped  the  pinion  feathers  from  one  wing  of  the  pelican-the  usual  technique,  as  it  throws  the  bird  off  bal-  ance  when  he  tries  to  fly-and  turned  him  loose  in  the  duck-and-goose  pen.  He  took  one  indignant  look  around,  then  let  out  an  astonished  hiss  and  waddled  straight  for  the  duckpond  with  obvious  delight.  aTHER  now  had  a  wedge  for  intro-  ducing  a  scheme  of  his  to  secure  a  more  imposing  zoo.  'The  first  thing  he  needed  was  attention,  and  he  hoped  that  his  disillusioned  pelican  would  gain  it  for  him  by  providing  the  subject  for  a  news-  paper  story.  After  that,  he  would  fol-  low  up  with  the  annual  lectures  he  was  scheduled  to  give  at  the  service  clubs  around  town  and  encourage  them  to  donate  money  for  the  zoo.  For  the  zoo  needed  funds  not  only  for  animals  but  for  personnel  and  equipment.  As  Father  told  Bob  Troop,  his  head  keeper,  &quot;The  zoo's  too  brief.  Folks  come  in  at  one  end,  do  the  lion  house,  the  birdhouse,  look  at  the  ducks  and  the  alligators,  and  by  the  time  they've  made  the  loop  around  the  bear  pits  they're  out  the  other  side,  The  kids  haven't  even  finished  their  popcorn.  Why,  we  don't  have  a  camel  or  a  zebra-much  less  something  colorful  like  seals  or  a  tiger!&quot;  Getting  the  pelican  story  into  the  pa-  pers  was  absurdly  simple.  There  is  noth-" b"ing  that  a  local  paper  likes  better  than  a  good  zoo  story.  It  usually  rates  a  picture  or  two  and  a  snappy  headline  (&quot;NICE  ICE  FOR  THE  POLAR  PAIR,&quot;  &quot;ZOO  NEWS  FROM  THE  NEW  GNUS&quot;  ).  The  only  thing  you  need  to  make  news  at  a  zoo  is  to  have  a  new  something-bird,  beast,  house,  or  whatever.  Unfortunate,  ly,  our  zoo  hadn't  had  a  new  anything  (with  the  exception  of  an  endless  stream  of  black  bears)  for  years.  The  result  was  that  the  papers  had  given  up  looking  for  a  story,  and  most  of  the  citizens  had  forgotten  thezoo.  The  pelican,  trivial  as  it  was,  changed  this  situation.  Both  the  [REDACTED]  Beacon  (evening)  and  the  [REDACTED]  Eegle  (morning  and  eve-  ning  )  sent  reporters  and  photographers.  Stories,  pictures,  and  snappy  headlines  resulted.  Of  the  city's  more  than  a  hun-  dred  thousand  citizens,  a  majority  were  reminded  there  was  a  zoo  in  one  of  the  parks.  Many  of  these  readers,  further-  more,  seemed  struck  by  the  fact  that  the  zoo  would  accept  an  animal  that  some  citizen  wanted  to  get  ridof.  Within  twenty-four  hours,  Father  had  dona-  tions  of  thirty-five  parakeets;  two  cocka-  teels;  a  dozen  finches;  two  black  crows;  twenty-odd  rabbits,  many  pregnant;  eight  pairs  of  guinea  pigs;  and  any  num-  ber  of  ex-ducklings  left  over  from  past  Easters.  Two  goats  were  found  tied  to  the  fence  outside  the  monkey  cages.  Children,  parents,  and  grandparents  ap-  peared  with  pet  squirrels  and  hamsters  in  boxes,  cages,  cartons,  and  paper  sacks.  It  was  the  beginning  of  an  avalanche,  for  which  my  father  was  totally  unpre-  pared.  By  the  end  of  a  week,  the  City  Com-  missioner  was  for  erecting  a  sign  outside  the  zoo,  &quot;No  Animals  Accepted,&quot;  and  locking  the  gates,  but  Father  persuaded  him  not  to  do  this,  fearing  unfavorable  publicity.  'The  gifts  continued,  and  the  wave  of  discarded  pets,  most  of  which  the  zoo  didn't  want  either,  filled  all  available  space  at  the  park  and  over-  flowed  into  our  garage  and  even  into  our  basement.  'The  sounds  issuing  up  through  the  hot-air  registers  in  our  house  caused  some  remarkable  com-  ment  the  night  Mother  entertained  the " b"[REDACTED]  Art  and  Literature  Club,  and  hernerves  were  further  frayed  by  a  myna  bird,  acquired  from  a  local  law-  yer,  which  insisted  upon  mimicking  her  at  the  top  of  its  voice.  As  the  stacks  of  makeshift  cages  grew  higher  in  our  basement,  Father  would  try  to  mollify  my  mother  by  saying,  &quot;I  can't  complain.  Publicity  is  what  I  wanted.  And  if  we  can  just  carry  these  pets  until  the  Christ-  mas  season,  we  can  sell  them  to  the  local  pet  shops  for  presents.&quot;  By  Christmas,  to  Mother's  astonish-  ment,  it  had  worked  out  pretty  much  as  Father  had  promised.  The  pet  shops  actually  did  take  a  lot  of  the  pets.  Fur-  thermore,  the  W.  T.  Grant  store  bought  from  the  zoo  and  later  sold  a  hundred  and  fifty  pairs  ofparakeets.  Some  of  the  animals-such  as  dogs  and  cats-were  hauled  off  to  the  pound.  Many  of  the  possums  and  raccoons  that  had  been  donated  were  driven  out  of  town  and  just  turned  loose  in  the  wood-  lands.  A  few  of  the  small  birds  were  given  to  the  [REDACTED]  Masonic  Home,  and  a  welfare  agency  tooka  large  num-  ber  of  canaries  and  used  them  as  Christ-  mas  gifts  to  underprivileged  families.  Peace  settled  on  our  household.  Thus,  six  months  after  the  arrival  of  the  pelican,  Father  was  able  to  return  to  his  program  of  improving  the  zoo.  This  he  initiated  by  buying  his  first  wild  animal,  with  the  proceeds  of  the  Christmas  sale.  First  he  wrote  Tref-  flich's,  the  famous  animal  importer  in  New  York,  requesting  a  price  list.  It  arrived,  and  Father  read  it  night  after  night  like  a  weekend  gardener  with  his  first  seed  catalogue.  Because  he  was  new  at  the  game,  Father  decided  he  should  first  buy  something  rather  small.  He  decided  on  a  coati-mundi.  This,  as  noted  in  Trefflich's  catalogue,  was  a  long,  brown,  furry  beast,  with  an  ex-  tended,  flexible  snout,  that  looked  much  like  an  anteater  but  was  in  fact  a  form  of  [REDACTED]  American  raccoon.  It  ate  let-  tuce  and  dog  biscuits,  and  had  a  friendly  disposition.  Price:  seventy-five  dollars.  Just  right.  Father  filled  out  the  order  blank,  wrote  a  check,  and  sent  them  off.  Fifteen  days  later,  somewhat  to  his  surprise,  back  came  one  coati-mundi  by  Railway  Express,  healthy  and  happy.  Just  like  Sears,  Roebuck.  HE  newspaper  reporters  arrived,  pictures  and  stories  were  run,  and  when  there  was  no  new  wave  of  dis-  carded  pets  Father  turned  his  attention  to  lions,  since  most  of  a  visitor's  atten-  tion  focussed  on  the  lion  house.  Our  zoo  had  two  lions,  Simba  and  his  three-  year-old  son.  Father  sought  a  new  mate" b"for  Simba.  To  get  one,  he  was  going  to  have  to  use  a  technique  common  to  impoverished  zoos-trading  surplus  stock.  For  some  reason,  every  zoo  seems  to  have  a  specialty  in  some  brand  of  re-  production.  The  National  Zoological  Park  in  [REDACTED],  for  instance,  pro-  duces  young  pygmy  hippopotamuses  like  a  factory.  In  the  thirties,  [REDACTED]  City  furnished  half  the  lions  for  the  Middle  West.  And  even  our  little  zoo  in  [REDACTED]  had  its  forte.  With  us  it  was  small  black  bears.  We  had  been  accumulating  them  almost  geometrical-  ly  until  the  pits  were  brimming  with  them,  each  bear  just  like  the  one  next  to  it.  It  was  with  these  surplus  bears  that  Father  hoped  to  bargain.  To  get  the  feel  of  things,  he  began  negotiating  for  other  animals  with  the  zoo  at  Independence,  [REDACTED],  and,  sure  enough,  one  day  he  loaded  a  bear  into  a  park  truck  and  sent  it  off;  the  truck  returned,  as  expected,  with  apair  of  surplus  mule  deer.  An-  other  bear  brought  in  a  fine  pair  of  bison  from  Bartlesville,  [REDACTED],  and  cor-  respondence  with  the  zoo  at  [REDACTED]  Springs  revealed  that  though  they  need-  ed  no  bears,  they  did  have  some  surplus  elk,  and  if  theycould  find  someone  who  had  something  they  wanted  who  could  also  use  our  bears,  they'd  be  delighted  to  do  a  three-way  trade.  Eventually,  we  acquired  several  elk,  which  were  entirely  new  to  our  zoo,  and  needed  only  some  fencing  and  a  plain  wooden  shelter.  Father  had  plenty  of  unused  ground  to  play  with.  By  that  time,  also,  the  City  Commissioner,  impressed  by  the  re-  newed  interest  in  the  zoo,  had  given  Father  the  money  for  some  extra  pens  and  some  extra  labor  in  the  form  of  part-time  W.P.A.  and  city  helpers.  After  the  elk  arrived,  Father  felt  ready  for  the  new  lion.  [REDACTED]  City  had  a  young  lioness  it  could  afford  to  trade,  but  there  were  several  zoos  bid-  ding  for  her.  One  of  them  was  even  offering  money!  What  could  we  pro-  pose?  The  556e6974656420537461746573ns  agreed  they  could  use  a  pair  of  bears,  but  these  weren't  nearly  enough  to  trade  for  a  lion.  Father  began  to  brood.  His  thoughts  drifted  back  to  the  days  when  the  people  of  [REDACTED]  left  their  pets  with  him.  He  recalled  that  individually  they  were  small  animals,  but  when  piled  stack  upon  stack  around  him  they  had  been  overwhelming.  Was  it  possible  that  the  same  effect  might  work  on  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns?  If  he  listed  everything  he  had  to  trade  on  a  piece  of  paper,  almost  certainly  they  would  scan  it  and  refuse  him.  But  if  he  made  a  great  heap  of  the  stuff  and  pushed  it  at  them  in  person," b"might  not  .  ..  He  decided  it  was  worth  a  try.  He  picked  the  first  Wednesday  in  April  for  the  assault,  when  the  Okla-  homans  would  be  cleaning  and  painting  up  their  zoo  for  the  spring  and  summer  crowds.  New  stock  would  have  its  maxi-  mum  appeal.  Having  next  to  nothing  of  quality,  he  was  going  to  have  to  rely  on  quantity  and  variety.  First,  he  sent  men  out  to  the  city's  water-lily  pools  to  dip  goldfish.  They  brought  in  between  five  and  six  hundred  of  them.Next,  he  made  up  a  lot  of  wire-fronted  wooden  crates.  Into  six  ofthese  heput  one  small  alligator  each.  He  filled  two  crates  with  a  Mexican  parrot  apiece  and  split  a  pair  of  cockateels  into  two  cages.  There  were  several  odd  pheasants  around  the  birdhouse,  and  he  made  a  box  fora  Reeve's,  another  for  a  Lady  Amherst,  and  one  for  a  Black  Mutant.  Two  al-  bino  possums  filled  two  more  crates,  and  a  raccoon  yet  another.  He  sacrificed  a  male  spider  monkey  for  the  cause.  And  finally,  he  hadan  extra  peacock  that  had  good  plumage  and  would  take  up  a  lot  of  space.  At  dawn  on  Wednesday  morning,  everyone  involved  assembled  at  the  zoo.  The  goldfish  were  loaded  into  six  water-filled  milk  cans,  which  were  then  tied  on  to  the  tailgate  and  run-  ning  boards  ofa  large,  open-topped  park  truck.  The  two  bears  were  driven  into  crates,  and  these  were  slid  onto  the  bed  of  thetruck.  This  left  a  little  space  at  the  rear  and  considerable  above,  so  a  net  was  thrown  over  the  end  of  the  truck  and  the  peacock  let  in  loose  to  fill  the  space  without  damaging  his  tail.  The  mass  of  small  crates  and  cages  were  then  craftily  hung  all  over  the  outside  of  the  truck  body  so  that  they  completely  surrounded  it,  and  a  little  curtain  of  bur-  lap  was  nailed  over  the  wire  face  of  each,  so  that  when  the  dramatic  moment  of  display  arrived  the  curtains  could  be  flipped  back,  giving  a  conglomerate  ef-  fect  of  birds,  animals,  and  reptiles  of  all  sizes  and  shapes.  With  Troop  at  the  wheel  and  Father  beside  him,  accom-  panied  by  the  head  of  the  park  police,  holding  a  high-calibre  game  rifle  in  his  lap  (should  there  be  an  accident  and  the  bears  escape),  they  startedfor  Okla-  homa  City.  Father  had  informed  the  zoo  people  there  of  his  coming.  They,  however,  expected  only  a  visit  of  ex-  ploration  and  negotiation;  they  had  no  inkling  that  he  had  any  livestock  with  him.  Father  hoped  to  take  them  by  sur-  prise.  Four  hours  later,  the  truck  arrived,  leaving  several  hundred  baffled  motor-  ists  in  its  wake.  Father  found  the  proper  zoo  officials  and  gathered  them  around " b"the  truck.  Then  he  raised  the  curtain  on  his  collection  of  odds  and  ends,  plus  two  fine  black  bears.  We  will  probably  never  know  whether  the  impact  of  the  display  actually  overwhelmed  the  offi-  cials  or  whether  a  great  rush  of  pity  stirred  by  this  zoological  hodgepodge  didthe  job,  but  Father  returned  home  with  his  lioness.  OW  he  was  almost  over  the  hump.  Many  animals  worth  keep-  ing  had  been  given  the  zoo,  such  as  a  pair  of  beautiful  macaws,  several  rhesus  and  spider  monkeys,  and  a  surprising  number  of  pet  alligators,  and  the  news-  papers  were  running  a  couple  of  zoo  stories  a  week.  Park  crowds  were  larger  than  ever  before.  In  response  to  Father's  invitation,  the  service  clubs  were  on  the  verge  of  donating  money  for  exhibits  the  American  Legion  had  actually  of-  fered  to  underwrite  a  Kiddies  Zoo,  complete  with  Mother  Goose,  Peter  Rabbit,  and  Billy  Goat  Gruff.  Father  felt  that  all  he  needed  was  a  catalyst  to  provoke  action  by  the  other  clubs.  So  hedecided  to  try  filling  the  one  empty  cage  left  in  the  zoo-the  cleaning  cage  beside  Simba.  It  was  obvious  it  demand-  ed  just  one  thing:  a  tiger.  Father  could  see  it  as  clearlyas  if  it  were  already  there-a  massive,  savage  beast  snarling  back  at  the  press  cameras  while  the  people  flocked  in.  This  time  he  had  to  have  money,  be-  cause  he  knew  helacked  the  resources  to  trade  for  a  tiger.  Treffiich's,  how-  ever,  was  selling  tigers  for  slightly  more  than  our  Chief  ofPolice  was  being  paid  in  annual  salary.  Nevertheless,  Father  went  to  the  City  Commissioner.  He  explained,  as  grandly  as  possible,  that  an  investment  in  a  tiger  would  be  bread  cast  upon  the  waters,  which,  in  the  form  of  thousands  of  dollars  of  gifts  from  the  service  clubs,  would  be  re-  turned  tenfold.  The  City  Commissioner  told  him  he  was  out  of  his  mind.  Father  demonstrated  with  graphs  the  increase  in  the  size  of  the  crowds  the  zoo  was  drawing-a  fact  that  proved,  he  said,  how  pleased  the  citizens  would  be  to  spend  their  tax  money  for  a  tiger.  The  City  Commissioner  told  him  to  build  some  tennis  courts.  They  were  concrete  and  they  would  last.  Father  was  greatly  discouraged  until  the  following  Sunday,  when  one  of  the  newspapers  carried  a  story  that  con-  vinced  him  we  are  all  part  of  a  Divine  Plan.  A  circus  playing  in  a  small  town  near  [REDACTED]  hadhad  a  disastrous  fire.  The  ownershad  declared  bankruptcy  and  pulled  out,  leaving  the  local  sheriff  with  a  singed  tent  and  numerous  wild,  hungry  animals.  Father  dropped  the" b" paper  and  placed  a  call  to  the  [REDACTED]  town.  It  took  the  operator  some  little  time  to  find  the  sheriff,  but  once  she  had  put  him  on,  Father  asked  him,  &quot;Do  you  have  a  tiger?&quot;  He  did.  &quot;How  much  do  you  want  for  him?&quot;  The  sheriff  told  him.  &quot;I'll  take  him,&quot;  Father  said.  &quot;Don't  do  a  thing.  I'll  wire  confirma-  tion  at  once.&quot;  Father  hung  up  and  turned  to  my  mother.  &quot;Mae!  I've  bought  a  tiger!&quot;  Mother  told  him  she  was  pleased  for  him,  but  what  would  the  City  Commis-  sionersay?  &quot;It  doesn't  make  any  difference  what  he  says,&quot;  my  father  replied.  &quot;I  didn't  say  I'd  bought  him  a  tiger.  I  bought  it  for  myself.&quot;  &quot;You're  going  to  pay  for  it?  How  much  does  it  cost?&quot;  Father  casually  gave  her  the  figure,  which  slightly  exceeded  two  years'  pay-  mentson  our  house.  When  Mother  seemed  on  the  edge  of  hysteria,  he  made  soothing  remarks  about  getting  bargain  tigers  at  fire  sales.  Then  he  sent  our  Christmas  Fund  savings  to  [REDACTED]  as  earnest  money.  T  wo  weeks  later,  the  tiger  arrived  by  express  and  was  delivered  to  the  zoo.  The  next  day,  Father  reported  to  the  City  Commissioner  that  he  had  pur-  chased  the  animal  as  a  private  citizen  and  wished  to  present  it  to  the  city.  Since  there  might  be  some  questions  asked  about  such  activity  by  a  civil  servant,  Father  suggested  that  the  donor  be  list-  ed  as  anonymous.  The  City  Commis-  sioner  was  not  overly  pleased  by  this  generosity,  and  felt  sure  he  was  being  taken,  but,  being  unable  to  figure  out  just  how,  he  gave  the  news  to  the  pa-  pers.  The  press  acted  handsomely.  Find-  ing  that  the  tiger  had  no  name,  the  Beacon-on  its  own  initiative-inaugu-  rated  a  Name-the-Tiger  contest,  open  to  any  556e6974656420537461746573n  aged  tenor  younger.  The  leading  merchants  contributed  small  prizes.  Daily  pictures  of  the  tiger  kept  the  contest  going  and  swelled  the  zoo  crowds.  By  the  close  of  the  month,  the  contest  had  been  concluded,  the  tiger  named  (I've  forgotten  just  what  the  name  was),  and  additional  citizens  had  acquired  the  zoo  habit.  At  this  point,  Father  was  called  upon  to  make  his  first  payment  on  the  tiger.  The  truth  was,  of  course,  that  he  didn't  have  the  money,  and  this  he  told  the  City  Commissioner,  with  immoderate  embarrassment.  &quot;I'm  afraid  I'm  going  to  have  to  return  the  tiger  to  [REDACTED].  I  simply  can't  meet  the  payments.&quot;  The  City  Commissioner  now  knew  how  he  had  been  taken.  &quot;You  know " b"goddam  well  you  can't  pull  that  animal  out  of  there  after  all  this  fuss.  If  you  get  rid  of  it,  there'll  be  a  hell  of  a  yell  for  another  one  just  like  it.&quot;  He  agreed  to  |_  buy  the  tiger,  but  he  said  he  would  not  forget  this  incident  (&quot;blackmail,&quot;  he  called  it)  if  my  father  worked  for  him  for  a  hundred  years,  which  at  the  mo-  ment  did  not  seem  likely.  The  city  kept  the  tiger,  which  dedicated  its  every  wak-  ing  hour  to  stealing  Simba's  crowds.  Unfortunately  for  Father's  plans,  the  tiger  did  not  mark  the  beginning  of  a  time  of  glory  for  the  zoo.  It  arrived  in  the  summer  of  1939.  By  September,  the  war  in  Europe  had  broken  out,  and  Boeing,  Cessna,  and  Beech,  [REDACTED]'s  airplane  plants,  shifted  to  wartime  pro-  duction,  while  the  city-including  its  service  clubs-moved  to  a  war  footing,  two  years  ahead  of  most  of  the  country.  My  father  soon  left  his  municipal  job  and  went  into  Red  Cross  and  U.S.O.  work.  The  city  was  far  too  preoccupied  with  such  things  as  new  airports  and  housing  for  nearly  a  hundred  thousand  new  citizens  to  worry  any  longer  about  its  zoo,  which  quietly  sank  back  into  the  lethargy  of  an  earlier  day.  "