 b"HE  had  seen  his  older  brother,  Giinther,  swear  personal  alle-  giance  to  Hitler  when  Giinther  was  fifteen  and  he,  Stefan,  only  six.  Ac-  tually  Giinther  promised  nothing  aloud,  but  stood  with  his  lips  tight.  Later  on,  the  boys'  father  said  to  Giinther,  &quot;You  haven't  proven  anything.  No  one  knows  what  you  were  thinking.  It  was  too  late  to  drop  out  at  the  last  minute.  You  have  promised  what  the  others  promised,  whether  you  wanted  to  or  not.&quot;  What  Stefan  had  never  known  and  wondered  now  -it  came  back  to  him  eighteen  years  later  on  a  winter  morning  in  [REDACTED]-was  whether  Giinther  was  against  the  words  because  they  were  binding  or  against  the  idea  they  ex-  pressed.  The  formula  of  fidelity  had  been  changed  since  the  war  (from  1939  until  the  capitulation,  one  swore  to  the  person  of  Hitler  instead  of  to  the  State  ),  and  perhaps  Giinther  positively  did  not  wish  to  make  a  gift  of  his  life.  Whatever  his  silence  concealed,  it  stood  for  ex-  treme  feeling.  Giinther,  now  dead,  had  nothing  more  to  say  or  conceal.  And  Stefan,  walklng  among  the  French  on  a  rainy  morning,  was  wordless,  as  his  brother  had  been  eighteen  years  before.  In  the  laboratory  outside  [REDACTED]  where  Stefan's  scholarship  had  takenhim,  the  professors,  the  technicians,  his  friends  and  comrades,  had  put  on  their  coats.     Someone  said,  &quot;Is  [REDACTED]  with  us?&quot;  &quot;[REDACTED]&quot;&quot;  meant  Stefan.  The  rooms  were  dark  and  the  heat  in  the  building  turned  off;  there  was  a  general  strike  from  eight  until  noon.  Stefan  went  with  the  rest.  It  was  too  dark  to  work  and  he  couldn't  very  well  stay  there  alone.  There  were  nearly  eighty  of  them  straggling  along  the  pavement.  They  walked  slowly,  as  if  it  were  a  mild  spring  day  instead  ofa  winter  morning  of  rain.  They  walked  bythe  stone  walls,  the  brick  houses,  the  drenched  winter  gar-  dens  of  this  town  that  had  been  a  quiet  suburb  and  was  now  ringed  with  fac-  tories  and  fragile-looking  blocks  of  flats.  Rain  darkened  Stefan's  fair  hair.  If  the  police  came  now  and  asked  themwhat  they  were  doing,  he  intended  to  excuse  himself.  &quot;Forgive  me,&quot;  he  would  say,  &quot;but  it  was  impossible  to  stay  behind.  I  am  in  [REDACTED]  with  a  scholarship.  I  am  a  guest  of  the  country.  I  regret  any  worry  I  might  be  causing  you  by  walking  to  the  center  of  town  instead  of  remaining  at  my  work.&quot;  He  was  more  than  a  guest;  they  had  sent  for  him.  What  is  a  foreign  scholar-  ship  if  not  a  sort  ofbribe?  Faint  conceit  made  him  glance  at  a  girl  walking  be-  side  him-a  girl  who  had  flirted  with  him  in  the  halls.  Now  she  walked  with  her  hands  in  the  pockets  of  her  raincoat.  Her  head,  in  a  cotton  scarf,  was  bent slightly  forward.  She  was  silent  and  thinking  hard;  he  could  see  that  because  of  the  way  a  tooth  held  her  lower  lip.  It  would  have  seemed  to  him  attractive,  rather  sensual,  if  she  had  not  been  so  re-  moved.  Stefan  hoped  for  her  sake  that  she  was  wearing  a  sweater  under  her  thin  raincoat.  Now  and  again  she  shiv-  ered.  When  they  got  back  to  the  lab-  oratory,  he  would  advise  her  to  take  aspirin,  hethought.  The  general  strike  made  the  country  seem  submerged;  he  felt  as  if  they  were  walking  through  waves.  And  now  a  smaller  strike  of  one  hour  had  been  called.  Plenty  of  cars  rushed  by,  splash-  ing  the  walkers  on  the  pavement,  but  some  taxis  pulled  up  to  the  side  of  the  road,  and  some  shops  were  locked,  with  the  blinds  down.  The  main  street,  which  they  now  descended,  was  the  highway  to  [REDACTED].  Here  they  seemed  to  Stefan  conspicuous.  How  intent,  how  uncasual  they  would  seem  if  the  police  should  appear  now!  He  hoped  he  would  have  time  tosay,  &quot;Excuse  me,  this  is  none  of  my  affair.&quot;  In  [REDACTED]  the  po-  lice  broke  up  demonstrations  with  fire  hoses,  and  the  most  anyone  got  was  a  good  wetting.  He  wondered  why  the  French  police  didn't  copy  this  tactic  in-  stead  of  moving  in  with  clubs.  The  leader  of  their  group  was  a  young  man  Stefan  had  seen  in  the  lab-  oratory  but  scarcely  knew.  Why  should  he  be  leader  all  at  once?  He  had  taken  on  authority  without  asking  consent.  This  leader  had  a  proclamation  in  his  pocket,  and  they  were  on  their  way,  all  eighty  of  them,  to  the  city  hall  of  a  4672616e6365ian  suburb  to  read  the  proclamation  to  the  mayor.  The  proclamation  said  they  were  against  violence  and  mur-  der,  and  that  they  stood  for  the  Republic,  whatever  the  Republic  was.  The  owner  ofa  fruit  shop,  who  had  joined  in  the  one-hour  strike,  stood  in  his  doorway,  watching  the  fruit  outside  to  make  sure  none  of  it  was  stolen.  The  pears  under  their  protective  netting  looked  delicious.  If  you  bought  one  the  merchant  would  say,  &quot;Is  it  for  lunch,  or  dinner,  or  to-  morrow?&quot;  If  it  was  for  lunch,  it  had  to  be  eaten  straightaway;  tomorrow  the  interior  would  be  spotted  andbrown.  At  the  city  hall  neither  of  the  armed  guards  at  the  door  moved  an  inch;  not  the  guardian  of  the  peace  with  his  club  and  his  gun,  or  the  statue  in  dark  blue  with  his  machine  gun.  Being  armed  and  in  uniform,  the  two  were  not  men.  They  were  targets,  objects,  enemies-pic-  tures  of  something.  The  group  trailed  past  them  and  into  the  building  and  stood,  scuffling  their  soaked  shoes,  in  the  dark  lobby.  A  marble  plaque,  yellow  now,  gave  the  names  of  the  dead  in  " b"the  1914  war,  and  a  much  smaller,  whiter  piece  of  marble  held  the  names  of  the  few  who  had  died  twenty  years  ago.  The  building  felt  as  ifit  had  not  been  heated  for  days.  The  group  waited,  giving  off  an  aura  of  coldness  and  damp-  ness  like  a  cloud.  The  leader  had  his  proclamation  to  read,  but  the  mayor  was  away-on  a  voyage,  said  the  elder-  ly  clerk,  who,  if  you  forgot  the  armed  guards  outside,  was  the  greeting  com-  mittee.  'The  mayor's  assistant  was  away  as  well.  There  was  no  one  to  read  the  proclamation  to,  and  so  the  young  man  read  it  aloud  to  Stefan,  the  shivering  girl,  and  the  rest  of  them.  Stefan  was  aware  of  a  feeling  of  dissatisfaction  with  the  young  leader-as  if  he  had  promised  a  victory  and  failed.  Someone  observed  they  could  at  least  mark  the  occasion  with  one  minute's  silence,  and  that  gave  the  leader  another  chance.  He  looked  at  his  watch  and  said  the  minute  had  be-  gun.  In  the  long  minute,  Stefan  heard  people  walking  to  and  fro  in  the  build-  ing  and  a  telephone  ringing.  When  the  minute  was  up,  the  group  pressed  back  out  to  the  rain,  which  was  warmer  than  indoors.  The  minute  had  tired  them  more  than  the  walk.  &quot;Keep  in  line,&quot;  the  leader  urged  them.  &quot;Let  us  look  as  if  .  .  .&quot;  He  was  losing  his  authority  again;  but  surely  it  wasn't  his  fault  if  the  mayor  was  away  on  a  voyage?  And  the  mayor's  assistant,  too? Because  of  the  strike,  none  of  the  traffic  signals  were  working.  Cars  came  from  every  direction.  It  was  when  they  were  trying  to  cross  the  main  street  of  the  town,  the  highway  into  [REDACTED],  that  some  of  the  group  began  to  stamp  in  rhythm-three  beats  and  three  more-  O.  A.  S.  as-sas-sins.  Everyone  knew  what  three-three  stood  for,  even  with-  out  the  syllables.  Now  Stefan  felt  tricked  and  stubborn,  as  his  brother  might  have  done  during  the  oath-of-allegiance  ceremony  eight-  een  years  before.  &quot;Is  [REDACTED]  with  us?&quot;  his  comrades  had  asked.  They  knew  he  couldn't  stay  behind;  but  hehadn't  come  out  on  the  streets  to  stamp  and  shout  and  risk  his  career  for  something  that  had  nothing  to  do  with  him.  Saying  nothing,  he  thought  he  was  saying  ev-  erything.  If  the  police  came  now,  he  would  not  even  have  time  to  explain,  &quot;I  am  a  guest  of  [REDACTED]  and  deeply  re-  gret  .  .  .&quot;  Then  he  noticed  he  was  not  the  only  one  who  was  silent.  Some  were  shouting  and  some  were  still,  but  no  one  knew  what  anyone  thought,  or  what  the  silence  contained.  His  own  father  had  never  known  what  Giinther  believed  or  why  he  behaved  in  a  certain  way.  When  they  turned  up  the  hill  to  the  laboratory,  another  group  of  marchers  suddenly  came  around  a  corner  and  upon  them.  Both  groups  stopped  and  the  slogans  died  in  the  rain.  The  men  and  women  looked  at  each  other.  What  had  the  others  been  shouting?  Were  they  shouting  and  tramping  the  three  beats  and  three,  which  made  them  friends,  or  had  they  been  marching  to  the  three-  and-two  that  were  Al-g\xc3\xa9-rie  Fran-  caise?  Neither  group  had  heard  the  oth-  er.  Were  they  mortal  enemies  or  close  friends?  At  any  rate,  they  weren't  either  of  them  the  police.  They  stared  as  long  as  the  silent  minute  in  the  city  hall.  Nothing  happened;  the  groups  passed  without  trouble.  They  mingled,  parted,  re-formed  their  lines,  one  going  up  the  hill  to  the  laboratory,  the  other  along  perhaps  to  the  Zyc\xc3\xa9e;  they  had  the  look  of  teachers.  No  one  stamped  or  called  now.  They  were  men  and  women  in  the  rain.  T  hey  might  have  been  coming  from  anywhere-a  cinema,  ora  funeral.  Foreign  papers  exaggerate;  Stefan's  mother  sent  him  such  anxious  letters  from  [REDACTED]!  He  would  write  tonight  and  tell  hernot  to  worry.  Nothing  was  as  serious  as  it  seemed  from  the  outside.  Moreover,  his  superiors  thought  highly  of  him,  and  his  work  was  going  well."