 b"LIFE  is  hell,  but  at  least  there  are  prizes.  Or  so  one  thought.  One  knew  of  the  pit  ahead,  of  the  grownups  lyingthere  rewarded,  ar-  ranged,  and  faded,  who  were  so  long  ago  bright  as  poppies.  One  learned  to  take  one's  own  deserved  place  on  the  edge,  ready  to  leap,  not  to  hang  back  in  a  status-free  huddle  where  bodies  were  warm  together  and  the  future  darkness  seemed  less  frightening.  Therefore,  one  learned  to  win  prizes,  to  be  surrounded  in  sleep  by  a  dream  of  ordinal  numbers,  to  stand  in  best  clothes  upon  platforms  in  order  to  receive  medals  threaded  upon  black-and-gold  ribbons,  books  &quot;bound  in  calf,&quot;  scrolled  certificates.  One's  face  became,  from  habit,  incandescent  with  achievement.  I  had  my  share  of  prizes,  and  of  re-  sentment  when  nobody  recognized  my  efforts;  for  instance,  year  after  year,  when  the  New  Zealand  Agricultural  and  Pastoral  Society  held  its  show  in  the  Onui  Drill  Hall,  I  made  a  button-  hole  of  a  rose  and  a  sprig  of  maiden-  hair  fern  tied  together  with  raffia,  which  1  entered  for  the  Flower  Display,  Gen-  tleman's  Buttonhole.  It  was  never  displayed,  and  it  never  won  a  prize.  One  morning,  a  militant  woman  in  a  white  coat  made  a  speech  to  the  whole  school  from  the  front  steps,  before  Bertie  Dowling  played  the  kettledrum  for  us  to  march  inside,  and  in  her  speech  the  woman  accused  too  many  people  of  entering  for  the  Buttonhole  Section,  and  advised  us  not  to  try  to  make  buttonholes,  as  they  were  an  art  beyond  our  years  that  even  grownups  found  difficult  to  master.  &quot;Ithas  never  been  explained,&quot;  the  woman  said,  &quot;why  so  many  children  enter  buttonholes  in  the  Flower  Show.&quot;  (Bertie  Dowling  had  the  sticks  raised,  ready  to  play  the  drum.  He  was  very  clever  at  it;  he  was  a  small,  sunburned,  wiry  boy  with  long  feet  like  a  rabbit.)  I  felt  antagonistic  toward  the  woman  visitor.  Who  was  she  to  order  me  not  to  make  buttonholes  for  the  Flower  Show?  I  persisted,  as  I  say,  year  after  year,  yet  always,  once  I  had  surrendered  my  exhibit,  neat  in  its  little  box  cadged  {}{rom  the  jeweller's,  I  never  heard  of  it  again.  I  had  so  much  determination  and  so  little  wisdom  that  I  never  grasped  the  futility  of  my  struggle,  although  I  ealized  that  when  talents  were  being  and  distributed  my  name  was  not  included  in  the  short  list  of  those  bi  to  make  gentle-  mesed  with  the  tevaer     men's  buttonholes  that  would  reach  the  display  table  at  the  Flower  Show  in  the  Drill  Hall  and  win  First,  Second,  or  Third  Prize.  I  WON  six  and  fourpence  for  hand-  writing.  At  that  time,  I  was  in  love  with  my  parents;  therefore,  I  decided  to  buy  my  mother  a  best-china  cup,  saucer,  and  plate  with  the  entire  six  and  four-  pence,  even  though  at  that  time  I  also  had  a  fondness  for  Sante  Chocolate  Bars,  jelly  beans,  and  chocolate  fish  whose  in-  sides  were  a  splurge  of  pink  rubbery  sub-  stance  with  tiny  air  holes  in  it.  When  I  gave  my  mother  the  best-china  cup,  sau-  cer,  and  plate  she  said,  &quot;You  shouldn't  have,&quot;  and,  wrapping  the  set  carefully  in  tissue  paper,  she  placed  it  in  the  side-  board  cupboard  with  the  other  dishes  that  we  never  used-not  even  for  the  banquet  to  see  the  New  Year  in-like  the  gravy  boat,  the  tiny  cream  jug  with  the  picture  ofa  Dutch  girl,  the  vegetable  dishes  with  the  picture  of  a  rooster  crowing  on  each  ene.  Then  my  mother  locked  the  door.  I  never  saw  her  using  the  cup,  saucer,  and  plate.  It  was  best  china,  too,  the  man  in  Peak's  told  me.  My  mother  always  said  she  was  keeping  the  set  for  when  she  could  really  use  it,  drinking  out  of  the  cup,  resting  a  silver  spoon  in  the  saucer,  tasting  (with  a  cake  fork)  a  slice  of  marble  cake  upon  the  plate.  Although  I  could  not  then  discern  the  difference  be-  tween  using  something  and  really  using  it,  there  was  evi-  dently  a  distinction  so  important  that  when  my  mother  died  she  had  still  not  been  able  to  use,  really  to  use,  my  six-  and-fourpenny  gift  to  her.  Y  next  prize  was  for  a  poem  that  revealed  both  my  lack  of  scien-  tific  knowledge  and  my  touching  dis-  belief  in  change  by  concluding  with  the  lines  And  till  the  sky  falls  from  above.  These  things  of  nature  I  shall  love.  Uncle  Ted,  of  my  favorite  wireless  sta-  tion  in  Christchurch,  read  my  poem  over  the  air,  between  a  recording  of  &quot;The  Nutcracker,  Waltz  of  the  Flow-  ers,&quot;  and  the  fifth  episode  of  &quot;David  and  Dawn  in  Fairyland,&quot;  and  two  days  later  I  received  through  the  post  an  or-  der  for  ten  shillings,  with  part  of  which  I  bought  for  myself  an  unsatisfactory  diary  and  a  John  Bull  Printing  Set,  which  I  used,  printing  my  name,  and  rude  rhymes,  and  insults  to  the  rest  of  the  family,  until  the  ink  dried  on  the  navy-blue  pad;  the  remainder  of  the  ten  shillings  I  saved  in  a  Post  Office  Bank,  which  could  not  be  opened  unless  it  was  taken  to  the  Post  Office.  I  broke  into  it  with  a  kitchen  knife  when  my  bathing  cap  perished  and  the  weather  was  warm  enough  for  swimming.  RIZES.  They  arrived  unexpectedly,  or  I  waited  greedily  for  them  at  the  end  of  every  school  year,  when  I  re-  ceived  one  or  two,  sometimes  three,  books  with  the  school  motto,  &quot;Pleasure  from  Work,&quot;  inscribed  on  the  flyleaf  be-  neath  the  cramped,  detailed  writing  of  the  form  mistress  setting  out  the  rea-  sons  for  my  prize.  Reasons  were  neces-  sary,  for  no  school  had  yet  learned  to  distribute  prizes  at  random,  first  come,  first  served,  in  the  manner  that  my  mother  had  adopted,  in  exasperation,  when  she  was  pestered  for  raisins,  dates,  or  the  last  of  the  chocolate  biscuits.  I  collected  so  many  books:  &quot;Treasure  Island;&quot;  &quot;Silas  Marner;&quot;  &quot;Emma;&quot;  &quot;Poems  of  Longfellow,&quot;  with  a  heart-  throbbing  picture  of  Hiawatha  bearing  Minnehaha  across  the  river:  Over  wide  and  rushing  rivers  In  his  arms  he  bore  the  maiden;  &quot;India,&quot;  with  illustrations  colored  as  if  with  cochineal;  &quot;Boys  and  Girls  Who  Became  Famous;&quot;  and-during  the  war,  when  books  were  scarce-a  musty  old  rained-on  and  stained  volume  of  poems  about  blossoms,  barns,  and  wine  presses,  printed  in  tall,  dark  type,  where  snakes  lurked  in  every  capital  letter.  Prizes.  Some  did  not  get  prizes.  Dotty  Baker  with  the  greasy  hair  never  got  a  prize.  Maud  Gray,  who  found  it  hard  to  read  even  simple  sentences  aloud,  never  got  a  prize.  Maud  Gray!  She  was  the  stodgiest  girl  in  the  class;  all  the  teachers  made  fun  of  her,  and  most  of  the  pupils,  including  myself,  followed  their  example.  Her  eyes  were  brittle  and  brown,  like  cracked  acorn  shells;  her  face  was  pale  and  blotched,  like  milk  on  the  turn.  Years  later,  I  was  visiting  Onul.  I  was  walking  desolately  in  the  rain  along  the  main  street,  wearing  my  dirty  old  gabardine  and  my  dowdy  clothes  and  feeling  fifteen  instead  of  twenty-  five,  when,  just  beyond  the  bed  of  pop-  pies  in  the  center  of  the  street,  I  saw  two  beautiful  women  wheeling  prams,  and  their  proud  gait  was  so  noticeable  I  triedto  recall  when  and  where  I  had  seen  before  that  superior  parading  of  the  victorious.  And  then  I  realized  that  I  had  walked  onto  the  platform  in  the  same     " b"way,  year  after  year,  to  receive  my  prizes.  Dotty  Baker,  Maud  Gray!  As  they  passed  with  their  cocooned,  quilt-  ed,  embroidered  treasure,  I  could  not  even  assert  my  superiority  by  whis-  pering,  &quot;You  cheated  in  history,  you  couldn't  learn  poetry  by  heart,  you  never  had  your  name  in  the  paper.  ...  First  in  geometry,  French,  English,  history.  ...&quot;  They  smiled  at  me  and  I  smiled  at  them.  We  shared  the  pit,  each  in  her  place.  The  rain  poured  upon  the  bed  of  crushed  poppies  between  us.  Yet  the  delicacy  and  distance  ofthe  two  women  were  unmistakable;  I  grudged  their  proud  cloaks  as  they  trooped,  clients  of  love,  on  their  specially  reserved  side  of  the  world.  But-prizes.  They  never  won  prizes.  My  only  retaliation  was  prizes-listing  them,  remembering.  WROTE  to  a  children's  newspa-  per,  sending  poems  that  were  award-  ed  ten  or  five  or  three  marks.  When  I  had  earned  one  hundred  marks,  I  re-  ceived  the  usual  prize  of  two  guineas.  For  one  guinea  my  father  bought  me  a  tennis  racket,  as  he  said,  &quot;on  the  cheap,&quot;  but  when  he  showed  it  to  me  I  was  alarmed  to  discover  that  the  strings  were  black  instead  of  white,  and  the  name  was  unfamiliar-Double  Duke.  I  was  the  loneliest  person  in  the  world  with  my  black-stringed  Double  Duke.  Why  had  my  father  not  realized  that  every  other  girl  at  school  possessed  a  white-  stringed  Vantage?  Ah,  it  was  sad  enough  to  have  an  old  wireless  at  home  with  a  name  no  one  had  heard  of  and  with  tubes  so  few  in  number  com-  pared  with  the  tubes  in  other  sets.  The  conversations  in  class  went:  &quot;Have  you  got  a  wireless  at  home?  How  many  tubes?&quot;  The  prestige  of  owning  things  mattered  so  much,  and  to  have  a  tennis  racket  with  a  strange  name  and  gro-  tesque  strings  was  punishment  indeed.  I  was  so  ashamed  of  my  tennis  racket  that  I  seldom  used  it.  With  my  other  guinea  from  the  newspaper  I  had  the  unexpected  fortune  to  be  chosen  by  Hessie  Sutton,  a  woman  up  the  road,  as  her  pupil  for  music  les-  sons-the  piano-at  a  reduced  rate,  and  every  Tuesday  and  Friday  after  school  I  claimed  an  hour  of  Hessie  Sut-  " b"ton's  time  in  the  front  room  ofthe  house  where  she  lived  with  her  mother  and  a  white  parrot  whose  perpetual  scream-  ing  inspired  complaining  letters  to  the  evening  paper.  The  front  room  was  large  and  car-  peted,  with  sparkling,  bubble-shaped  windows.  The  piano  made  wonderfully  clean  sounds  as  the  keys  sank  into  and  sprang  from  their  green  bedding;  the  sounds  filled  me  with  a  polished  sense  of  opulence  and  cleanliness,  and  each  note  emerged  bravely  and  milkily  alone  and  poured  into  me,  up  to  my  neck.  I  swallowed.  I  liked  Hessie  Sutton's  piano.  We  had  none  at  home.  At  my  aunt's  house,  where  I  went  to  practice  once  a  week,  there  was  an  old  piano  with  soapy  yellow  keys  that  stuck  halfway,  and  the  lower  or  upper  half  of  each  sound  had  been  weathered  down  so  that  each  note  came  forth  deprived,  diseased,  with  an  invalid  petulance  and  stricture.  &quot;But  you  must  not  bite  your  nails,&quot;  Hessie  Sutton  warned  me.  &quot;You  will  never  be  able  to  play  the  piano  if  you  bite  your  nails!&quot;  'That  was  my  first  intimation  that  Hessie  Sutton  was  a  spy.  I  clenched  my  fists,  hiding  my  finger-  nails.  At  school,  I  said,  &quot;I  learn  music,  do  you?&quot;  Dotty  Baker,  Maud  Gray,  and  others  learned  music,  but  mostly  they  were  like  uncooked  pastry  at  it;  they  suffered  a  dearth  of  warmth,  expansion,  gold  finish.  On  thecold  June  days,  when  the  Music  Festival  was  held,  we  sat  miserably  in  the  hall,  our  coats  over  our  knees,  listening  to  a  &quot;Marche  Mili-  taire&quot;  being  played  by  schoolgirl  dentists  and  carpenters.  My  first  piece  was  named  &quot;Puck.&quot;  I  went  down  to  the  stationer's  to  buy  it  on  tick,  and  the  ginger-haired  boy  served  me,  and  his  face  had  a  rust-col-  ored  blush,  like  a  dock  leaf  in  autumn,  because  he  had  to  go  to  the  small  room  at  the  back  of  the  shop  and  ask  his  par-  ents  if  it  would  be  all  right  to  serve  me,  as  our  bill  had  not  been  paid.  On  my  way  home  with  &quot;Puck,&quot;  I  met  Hessie  Sutton  and  smiled  at  her,  shyly  and  excitedly,  but  when  she  glanced  at  the  parcel  under  my  arm  and  the  music  half  wrapped,  and  gave  an  understanding  smile,  my  face  clouded  in  a  fierce  frown.  How  dare  she  see  me  and  divine  my  ex-  citement!  How  dare  she!  How  I  hated  her!  That  afternoon,  when  I  went  for  my  lesson,  she  heightened  my  sense  of  shame.  &quot;I  saw  you.&quot;  She  pounced  as  soon  as  I  entered  the  room.  &quot;I  saw  you,&quot;  she  said,  like  a  detective  giving  evidence,  &quot;coming  home  with  your  new  piece  of  music.  I  guessed  how  excited  you  were!&quot;  &quot;I  wasn't  caring  at  [REDACTED];  I  said  sul-  lenly.  &quot;Yes,  you  were,&quot;  Hessie  Sutton  in-  sisted.  &quot;I  saw  it  in  your  face!I  \xc3\xa9mew!/&quot;  I  did  not  understand  why  she  should  appear  so  triumphant,  as  if  by  seizing  on  a  momentary  aspect  of  my  behavior  she  had  uncovered  a  life  of  deceit  in  me.  Why,  she  honked  with  triumph  like  the  soldier  who  brought  back  the  golden  horn  from  the  underworld  as  proof  of  the  secret  activities  ofthe  twelve  danc-  ing  princesses!  I  did  not  realize  that  people's  actions  are  mysteries  that  are  so  seldom  solved.  &quot;I  knew,  I  knew!&quot;  Hessie  Sutton  kept  saying  as  I  sat  down  to  try  out  &quot;Puck.&quot;  From  that  day,  I  no  longer  enjoyed  my  music  lessons.  I  was  weary  of  being  spied  upon.  People  were  saying,  observ-  ing  me  closely,  &quot;She's  filling  out,  she's  growing  tall,  look  at  her  hair,  isn't  that  Grace's  chin  she's  got,  and  there's  no  doubting  where  her  smile  comes  from!&quot;  You  see  how  derivative  I  was  made  out  to  be?  Nothing  belonged  to  me,  not  even  my  body,  and  now  with  Hessie  Sut-  ton  and  her  spying  ways  I  could  not  call  my  feelings  my  own.  Why  did  people  have  so  much  need  to  stake  their  claim  in  other  people?  Were  they  scared  of  the  bailiffs'  arriving  in  their  own  house?  I  stopped  learning  music.  I  was  in  despair.  I  could  no  longer  use  prizes  as  a  fortress.  In  spite  of  my  books  bound  in  calf,  my  scrolled  certificates,  the  prize  essay  on  the  Visit  to  the  Flour  Mill,  and  my  marks  of  merit  in  the  children's  news-  paper,  I  was  being  invaded  by  people  who  wanted  their  prizes  from  me.  And  now  I  lie  in  the  pit,  finally  ar-  ranged,  faded,  robbed  of  all  prizes,  while  still  under  every  human  sky  the  crows  wheel  and  swoop,  dividing,  divid-  ing  the  spoils  of  the  dead. "