 b"THE  first  school I  ever  went  to  I  was  full  of  girls,  and  that  wasn't  the  worst  of  it.  We  were  taught  by  big  black  nuns  who  hadno  legs  or  feet  at  all  but  who  moved  about  as  if,  like  the  antediluvian  chest  of  drawers  in  my  mother's  bedroom,  they  went  on  concealed  casters.  They  used  to  haunt  my  dreams,  moving  uncannily  about  in  thousands,  bouncing  off  each  other  and  spinning  around  like  bumper  cars  at  a  fancy  fair,  holding  aloft  white  canes  like  witches'  wands.  They  didn't  teach  us  much.  All  I  remember  is  making  paper  chains  and  rolling  plasticine,  which  we  called  &quot;plaster  seed,&quot;  into  sticky  balls.  At  any  rate,  the  wells  on  my  path  to  learning  in  that  harem  of  a  school  were  poisoned  by  the  affair  of  the  school  reader  and  by  the  blow  Sister  Enda  caught  me  on  the  knuckles  with  her  cane  when  I  was  absorbed  drawing  funny  faces,  with  spittle  and  fingertip,  on  the  glossy,  black-painted  side  of  a  brown  wooden  desk.  &quot;Wipe  the  desk  clean  this  instant,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you  naughty  little  boy.&quot;  The  offending  funny  faces-they  were  a  first  effort  at  recapturing  the  fine  careless  rapture  observed  in  a  news-  paper  strip  on  the  faces  of  Mutt  and  Jeff-I  wiped  out  or  dried  off  with  my  handkerchief,  fastened  with  a  safety  pin  to  my  white  woollen  gansey.  (That  was  a  precautionary  measure  taken  against  loss  of  linen  by  my  mother,  who  for  years  preserved  a  snapshot  of  me,  pennant  flying,  a  surly,  freckled  boy  with  uncontrollable  hair  who  looked  as  if  he  had  just  murdered  nine  reverend  mothers.)  As  I  rubbed  away,  I  looked  for  sympathy  toward  Big  May,  and  I  hated  Sister  Enda,  as  the  long  Act  of  Charity  said,  with  my  whole  heart  and  soul  and  above  all  things.  At  that  time,  Big  May  was  the  only  woman  I  loved.  She  was  nine  and  a  half,  four  yearsolder  than  I,  her  prot\xc3\xa9g\xc3\xa9,  was,  and  big  even  then,  so  that  she  might,  in  the  words  of  the  poet,  with  her  great  shapely  knees  and  the  long  flowing  line,  have  walked  to  the  altar,  through  the  holy  images,  at  Pallas  Athene's  side.  She  was  big  and  wild  and  lovely,  and  never  could  take  the  straight  road  to  school  or  the  straight  road  home,  so  that  to  be  in  her  company  was  al-  ways  an  unguessable  adventure.  She  ran  messages  for  my  mother  and  undertook  to  chaperon  me  to  school  when  my  sis-  ter,  who  was  thirteen  and  a  half,  was  too  busy  and  superior  to  be  pestered  with  the  caretaking  of  a  toddler  of  a  brother.  May  was  lithe,  laughing-eyed,  and  dark-headed,  and  could  box  better  than  most  boys,  and  climb  trees  like  a  mon-  key.  She  was  an  adorable  woman  and  a  born  mother,  so,  with  my  knuckles  smarting,  I  turned  my  moistening  eyes  toward  her  for  sympathy.  But  the  morning  that  martinet,  Sister  Enda,  tried  to  commandeer  my  second  copy  of  the  school  reader-the  Low  Babies  edition-I  wasn't  looking  for  any  woman's  sympathy.  'That  was  a  lovely  reading  book-sixteen  pages  of  simple  sentences,  big  print,  colored  pic-  tures.  It  told  the  most  entrancing  stories.  This  one,  for  instance:  &quot;My  dog  Rags  has  a  house.  He  has  a  little  house  of  his  own.  See,  his  name  is  over  the  door.&quot;  Or  this  one:  &quot;When  the  children  went  to  the  Zoo  they  liked  the  elephant  best  of  all.  Here  is  the  elephant  with  happy  children  on  his  back.&quot;  Or,  breaking  into  verse:  &quot;When  the  old  owl  lived  in  the  oak  never  a  word  at  all  he  spoke.&quot;  My  mother  had  bought  me  a  copy,  and  to  have  one  at  home  and  another,  supplied  by  regulations,  in  school  gave  that  miracle  of  colored  pictures  and  suc-  cinct  narrative  the  added  wonder  of  twins,  or  of  having  two  of  anything.  So  when  Sister  Enda,  with  the  book  in  her  hand,  said,  &quot;Your  sister  tells  me  you  have  one  of  these  at  home,&quot;  and  then,  soaring  to  the  top  of  her  flightin  the  realm  of  wit,  added  that  one  reader  should  be  enough  for  such  a  little  boy,  and  when  all  the  girls  except  May  giggled,  I  saw  red  and  grabbed,  leaving  Sister  Enda  momentarily  quite  speech-  less  with  shock  and  turningover  and  over  in  her  hand  a  leaf  that  said  on  one  side,  &quot;Here  comes  the  aeroplane,  says  Tom,&quot;  and,  on  the  other,  &quot;When  the  children  came  home  from  town  they  had  much  to  tell  Mum.&quot;  Gripping  the  rest  of  the  reader,  I  glared  at  the  nun,  who  was  white  in  the  face  with  something-fright  or  fury  at  this  abrupt  confrontation  with  the  male  forcesof  violence  and  evil.  She  looked  at  me  long  and  thoughtfully.  Fortunate-  ly  for  me,  she  was  perambulating  with-  Y     MARCH  17,  19  62  out  benefit  of  cane.  She  said,  &quot;You  naughty  boy!  Now  your  poor  mother  will  have  to  pay  for  the  book  you  de-  stroyed.  Stand  in  the  corner  under  the  clock  with  your  face  to  the  wall  until  home  time.&quot;  I  did.  Tearless,  my  face  feverish  with  victory,  I  made  my  resolve.  On  the  homeward  journey,  I  told  May.  I  said,  &quot;As  long  as  I  live,  I'm  not  going  back  to  that  school.  It's  all  women.&quot;  &quot;Not  till  tomorrow  morning.&quot;  &quot;Never.  Never,  if  I  die.&quot;  &quot;Where  will  you  go?&quot;  \xc2\xab'To  the  brothers,  with  the  big  boys.&quot;  &quot;You're  too  little.&quot;  &quot;T'll  go  all  the  same.&quot;  'They  mightn't  take  you.&quot;  &quot;They'll  take  me.&quot;  &quot;What  will  your  mother  say?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  care  what  she  says.&quot;  Which  was  true,  because  I  knew  if  I  could  best  Sister  Enda,  I  could  best  my  mother.  That  onset  with  Sister  Enda  had  taught  me  it  was  a  man's  world.  &quot;'You're  a  terrible  boy,&quot;  May  said.  &quot;But  I'll  miss  you.&quot;  She  believed  me,  I  felt,  and  knew  in  her  heart  that  that  was  our  last  day  at  school  together,  and  she  was  proud  of  me.  So  with  my  hand  in  hers  we  went  on  the  last  detour  of  my  career  at  the  female  academy,  leaving  our  proper  route  and  wandering  into  the  cozy,  smelly,  crowded  world  of  the  gridiron  of  lanes  of  one-storied,  whitewashed  houses  below  and  at  the  back  of  the  towering,  double-spired  Catholic  church:  Foun-  tain  Lane,  Brook  Lane,  the  Gussett,  Saint  Kevin's  Lane,  Potato  Lane,  and,  narrowest  of  all,  a  cul-de-sac  called  the  Rat's  Pad.  Previously,  we  had  passed  it  by,  because  even  to  May  the  narrow,  roofed-over  entry,  opening  out  into  a  small  close  that  heldonly  four  houses,  was  a  little  daunting.  Besides,  you  could  not  go  through  it  and  come  out  the  other  end.  She  said  it  was  a  dog's  walk;  you  came  back  the  way  you  went.  But  on  this  day  the  Rat's  Pad  at-  tracted  us,  because  a  woman  in  one  of  its  four  houses  was  shouting  her  head  off  and,  outside  her  half  door,a  dozen  or  so  people  had  gathered  to  find  out  what  all  the  noise  was  about.  Skillfully,  May  worked  her  way  in  to  a  point  of  vantage,carrying  me  pickaback,  both  to  save  space  and  to  give  me  enough  alti-  tude  to  study  the  domestic  interior.  The  woman  was  gesticulating  with  a  long  knife.  Of  all  the  words  or  sentences  she  shouted,  only  one  remained  with  me:  &quot;I'll  cut  the  head  off  you,  you  lazy  gazebo!&quot;  The  man,  saying  nothing,  his  head  bowed,  as  if  meekly  to  accept  the  blade,  sat  on  a  low  stool  by  an  open,  old-  " b"fashioned  grate.  The  fire  burned  brightly.  &quot;May,&quot;  I  whispered,  &quot;will  she  really  and  truly  cutthe  head  off  him?&quot;&quot;  I  wasn't  sure  whether  I  did  or  did  not  want  to  witness  the  spectacle.  &quot;From  what  they  say,&quot;  said  May,  &quot;she  couldn't  cut  a  slice  of  bread.&quot;  So  since  there  was  noth-  ing  happening  but  shouting,  we  rejoined  our  main  route  homeward  and  May  bought  for  me,  as  a  special  treat  to  mark  the  day,a  toffee  apple  in  Katy  McElhatton's  huck-  ster  shop  in  Castle  Street.  CC  HE  only  brother  I'll  go  to,&quot;  I  dictated  to  my  mother,  &quot;is  the  Wee  Brother.&quot;  Having  won  my  battle  against  any  return  to  the  monstrous  regiment  of  women,  I  was  advancing  to  invest  new  positions.  I  knew  about  the  six  black  brothers  of  the  Chris-  tian  Schools.  Every  morn-  ing  at  eight-o'clock  Mass,  they  emerged  from  their  monastery  to  kneel  in  the  top  pew,  to  the  left  of  the  nave  and  under  the  marble  pulpit.  A  wide-eyed  study  of  their  movements  kneeling,  sitting,  standing,  praying,  yawning,  genuflecting,  reading  missals,  blowing  noses-had  for  some  time  been  for  me  a  substitute  for  any  form  of  worship.  The  Gray  Brother,  whose  place  was  on  the  extreme  right  of  their  pew,  was  Brother  Superior.  His  bush  of  gray  hair  was  clipped  and  shaved  in  an  exact  straight  line  dead  level  with  the  tops  of  his  ears.  He  had  a  fine  Roman  nose  and  a  trumpet  style  of  blowing  it  that  never  since  have  I  seen  or  heard  surpassed.  He  always  gave  a  preliminary  flourish  of  white  linen  before  he  trumpeted,  and  when  he  blew,  even  the  two  old  vo-  teens-one  man  and  one  woman-who  prayed  out  loud,  and  talked  over  their  affairs  with  God  for  all  to  hear,  were  momentarily  startled  out  of  the  balance  and  rhythm  of  their  recitative.  To  the  left  of  the  Gray  Brother  stood,  or  knelt,  or  sat,  according  to  the  stage  of  the  celebration,  Brother  Busto  and  Brother  Lanko-I  knew  them  according  to  the  nicknames  the  boys  bestowed  on  them.  They  had  the  same  soothering  Munster  accents  and  the  same  surnames,  and  were  distinguished  from  each  other  only  by  the  red-faced  girth  of  one  and  the  handsome  height  of  the  other.  Next  came  the  Beardy  Brother,  who  was  un-  usual  because  beards  were  rare  among  brothers.  Then  the  Red  Brother,  who,  true  to  the  color  of  his  hair  and  the  close,  disciplined  army  cut  of  it,  was  theterror  of  the  school;  the  legend  went  so  far  as  to  say  that  on  one  of  his  punitive  forays  he  had  trapped  the  shoulders  ofa  delin-  quent  boy  under  a  window  sash  and  thumped  him  on  the  buttocks  with  a  hurling  stick.  At  the  end  of  the  pew  was  the  Wee  Brother,  and  even  before  I  went  to  school  to  him  it  was  clear  to  me,  from  his  waving  fair  hair  and  the  way  the  light  reflected  on  his  pince-nez,  that  the  Wee  Brother  was  an  angel  specially  descended  from  above.  Grown  men  admired  the  Wee  Brother  because  he  had  been  a  famous  amateur  horse-  jockey  before  religion  claimed  him,  and-although  this  was  something  I  did  not  then  understand-the  girls  look-  ing  at  him  sighed  heartbroken  resig-  nation  to  the  inscrutable  ways  of  the  Lord,  who  claimed  such  a  paragon  for  the  cloister.  The  children  adored  him.  They  ran  messages  for  him,  swept  the  schoolrooms  and  the  schoolyard  for  him,  and  in  the  season,  under  his  direction,  shook  the  trees  and  picked  up  the  fallen  apples  in  the  monastery  orchard.  They  banded  themselves  at  his  behest  into  groups  of  all  sorts-from  paper-and-  comb  orchestras  to  football  teams-and  went  walking  with  him  in  crowds  in  the  country,  learning  the  names  of  birds  and  trees  and  not  too  often  wandering  off  in  small  foraging  parties  to  rob  orchards  or  egg  houses.  In  spite  of  the  vow  of  poverty,  he  always  clinked  with  small  coins  to  reward  them  for  their  more  meritorious  efforts.  He  was  good  to  the  poor,  and  his  favorite  pupil  was  Packy  Noble,  a  shuffling  albino  boy  too  big  for  his  grade  and  mentally  incapable  of  ad-  vancing  further  or  of  mastering  more  than  the  alphabet.  So  I  said  to  my  moth-  er,  &quot;The  only  brother  I'll  go  to  is  the  Wee  Brother.&quot;  It  was  autumn,  and  the  schoolyard  was  the  best  place  in  our  world  for  horse  chestnuts.  The  yard  was  triangu-  lar,  with  the  apex  pointing  up  the  slope  toward  the  schoolhouse-an  oblong  cut-  stone  building  of  two  stories.  Access  to  the  second  story,  because  of  an  over-  sight  of  the  builder,  who  forgot  the  stairs  originally  planned  for,  was  by  an  iron  outside  stairway.  The  long  branch-  es  of  the  chestnut  trees  overhung  the  walls  of  the  yard  and,  with  a  little  en-  couragement  from  sticks  and  stones,  readily  dropped  their  thorny  green  " b"fruit.  Wonder  was  all  around  my  moth-  er  and  myself  as  we  ascended  toward  the  school.  Ten  million  boys,  it  seemed  to  me,  were  playing  conkers,  swinging  the  seasoned  chestnuts  scientifically  on  lengths  of  string,  slashing  at  and  bashing  their  opponents'  chestnuts.  Fragments  of  the  casualties  crackled  under  our  feet  like  cinders.  Surrounded  by  an  excited  crowd,  a  tiny  fellow  called  Tall  Jimmy  Clarke  was  bending  down  with  his  hands  behind  his  back  and  picking  ha'pence  off  the  ground  with  his  teeth.  He  did  it  for  the  price  of  the  ha'pence  he  picked  up,  and  prospered  by  it,  because  the  fascination  of  what's  difficult  always  proved  overpowering  even  for  the  boys  who  had  seen  and  paid  for  the  trick  a  dozen  times  over.  In  a  corner  by  the  concrete  lavatories  and  washrooms,  a  crowd  of  hydromaniacs  were  having  the  time  of  their  lives  pumping  the  handles  of  the  drinking  fountains  and  covering  each  other  and  the  ground  around  them  with  water.  This  was  the  wonderful  world  of  school,  and  apart  from  my  mother  there  wasn't  a  petticoat  to  be  seen.  Then  a  whistle  blew,  and  in  shuffling      hordes  the  boys  ascended  to  be  swal-  lowed  up  by  the  old  stone  building.  We  were  alone,  my  mother  and  I.  Dust  still  rose  from  the  yard.  It  steamed  in  the  sun  on  the  damp  patch  left  by  the  water  sprites.  Beyond  a  row  of  chestnut  trees,  the  gardens  kept  by  the  brothers  were  well  ordered  and  radiant.  Variously  regulated  chants  arose  from  various  classrooms,  and  we  listened  to  them,  my  hand  in  hers,  until  the  Gray  Brother  came  to  us  from  the  monastery  be-  side  the  schoolhouse  and  said,  &quot;So  this  is  the  little  man  who  doesn't  like  the  girls.&quot;  The  Gray  Brother  I  took  to  from  the  start,  for  he  saw  my  point.  &quot;And  what  book  shall  we  put  him  into?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;He's  so  far  under  the  admittance  age.&quot;  Book!  I  thought.  I  have  my  own  books!  In  the  satchel  on  my  back  there  was  one  jotter,  slightly  scribbled  on;  one  pencil;  two  school  readers,  even  if  one  of  them,  due  to  the  villainy  of  wom-  an,  was  lacking  a  page.  There  was  also  my  lunch  of  bread-and-buttersand-  wiches,  a  small  bottle  of  milk,  two  biscuits,  and  one  piece  of  cake.  &quot;He  wants  nobody  but  the  Wee  Brother,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;'Then  the  Wee  Brother  it  shall  be.&quot;  He  waved  his  arm  at  a  window  on  the  second  story,  and  on  the  landing  of  the  stairway  at  the  corner  of  the  building  the  vision  appeared,  fair  hair  like  a  halo  blowing  round  its  head,  the  sunlight  shining  through  the  halo,  the  sun  beaming  out  of  its  glass  eyes,  truly  an  angel  descend-  ing  to  walk  with  us.  He  took  me  up  the  stairs  with  him,  and  that  was  how  I  came  to  meet  the  Four  Horsemen  of  the  Apocalypse,  who,  after  Big  May  and  the  Wee  Brother,  were  the  greatest  teachers  I  ever  had.  Sometimes  the  Wee  Broth-  er  called  them  the  Twelve  Apostles,  because  he  said  any  one  man  of  them  was  as  good  as  three.  But  mostly,  and  I  think  merely  because  they  ran  his  messages  for  him,  carrying  dispatches  all  over  the  town,  being  the  bearers  equally  of  errands  of  charity  or  admon-  itory  notes  to  parents  who  weren't  sending  their  boys  to  school,  he  called  them  the  Four  Horsemen  of  the  Apocalypse.  They  sat,  or  knelt,  at  prayer  time,  on  the  bench  near-  est  to  the  door,  making  sure  in  winter  that  the  door  was  securely  closed,  enjoy-  ing  in  summer  a  high  green  view  of  the  neighboring  convent  field,  where  the  nuns,  for  some  symbolic,  devotional  purpose,  grazed  a  small  black  donkey-  the  happiest,  laziest  donkey  in  the  world,  the  Wee  Brother  said.  That  big  bench  by  the  door  towered  over  the  other  desks  like  a  Spanish  galleon  over  the  dogged  little  ships  of  Elizabeth's  gunners.  Even  by  the  standards  of  those  days,  it  was  a  museum  piece.  It  creaked  with  age  every  time  one  of  its  occupants  moved.  It  had  space,  the  Wee  Brother  said,  for  four  and  a  quarter  men,  so  he  lifted  me  up,  seated  me  at  one  end  of  it,  my  legs  dangling,  beside  Packy  Noble,  told  me  I  was  the  image  of  an  artistic  mantelpiece  ornament  in  a  modern  house,  and  placed  me  thus  under  the  tutelary  protection  of  the  Four  Horse-  men:  Packy  himself,  Tall  Jimmy  Clarke,  Jinkins  Creery,  and  Tosh  Mul-  lan,  who,  later  in  life,  was  to  become  a  boxer  and  to  acquire  by  a  painful  acci-  dent  the  pseudonym  of  Kluterbuck.  My  two  school  readers  open  before  " b" me,  I  studied  the  pictures  and  listened  to  the  drone  of  learning  all  around  me  and,  sometime  in  the  afternoon,  fell  asleep,  to  be  gently  lifted,  as  I  learned  afterward,  by  snow-headed  Packy  and,  under  the  direction  of  the  Wee  Brother,  laid  to  rest  on  the  broad  bottom  shelf  of  a  brown  press  used  as  a  wardrobe  on  dry  days  for  the  scholars'  coats  and  caps.  Comfortably  cushioned,  I  slumbered  until  it  was  time  for  the  Litany  of  the  Blessed  Virgin  and  the  journey  home,  and  then,  thumbing  the  sleep  out  of  my  eyes,  I  boarded  the  galleon  again  and  balanced  on  my  knees  for  a  prayer  so  soothing  that  I  would  have  fallen  asleep  again  except  that,  just  as  the  Wee  Brother  said  &quot;Tower  of  Ivory&quot;  and  we  sang  out  &quot;Pray  for  Us,&quot;  the  old  bench  gaveup  the  ghost  and  collapsed  with  a  crash.  The  litany  dissolved  in  the  laugh-  ter  of  boys,  and  when  the  Wee  Brother  saw  that  nobody  was  hurt,  he  laughed,  too.  The  Four  Horsemen,  taking  the  place  of  Big  May,  conducted  me  home.  Tall  Jimmy  Clarke,  by  stooping  and  lifting,  acquired  on  the  way  four  ha'pen-  nies  and  bought  sweets  and  shared  them  out.  Jinkins  Creery  held  me  up  on  the  parapet  of  the  bridge  over  the  Strule  and  showed  me  where  he  had  caught  a  river  lamprey  a  mile  long,  and  promised  to  show  me  the  seven  baby  lampreys  he  had  in  a  glass  jar  at  home.  He  explained  how  he  had  caught  them  by  holding  a  tennis  ball  in  among  a  maze  of  them  in  a  foot's  depth  of  water  in  the  Killyclogher  Burn,  and  how  the  stupid,  vicious  creatures  had  clung  on  to  it  so  tightly  with  the  suckers  they  had  instead  of  mouths  that  he  was  able  to  lift  seven  of  them  out  of  the  wa-  ter.  Packy  and  Tosh  Mullan  put  on  for  my  instruction  a  display  of  the  noble  art  of  self-de-  fense,  which  was  great  fun,  because  Packy  was  huge  and  white-headed,  and  his  battered  boots  were  toobig  for  him,  and  his  toes  turned  up,  and  he  could  imitate  a  dancing  bear  he  had  once  seen  in  John  Duf-  fy's  travelling  circus.  Packy's  greatest  weakness  was  that  he  could  never  be  on  time  for  school  in  the  morn-  ing.  His  mother-or,  to  be  more  charitable,  his  aunt-went  by  the  strange  name  of  Pola  and  was  the  proprietress what  we  knew  bluntly  as  a  tramp-  lodging  house,  where,  it  was  rumored,  the  itinerant  patrons  cooked  over  can-  dles  and  slept  on  their  feet,  elbows  hooked  on  a  common  rope,  so  that  inexorably  they  were  all  aroused  to-  gether  when  the  rope  was  slackened  at  reveille.  Certain  it  was  that  the  mixed  clientele  of  sallow-faced  Oriental  bag-  men,  peddlers,  vagrant  musicians,  buck-  ers,  and  downright  beggars  who  patron-  ized  the  place  did  not  go  to  bed  until  the  small  hours,  and  then  only  to  the  ac-  companiment  of  a  pretty  consistent  bed-  lam.  So,  shuffling  in  late,  morning  after  morning,  Packy  would  wearily  rub  red  eyes  that  had  around  them  rims  of  sleep  like  gray  mud  around  a  weeping,  flow-  ering  marsh,  and  the  back  of  his  white  poll  was  never  devoid  ofa  tiny  pillow  feather  or  two.  Every  morning,  his  day's  study  began  like  this:  &quot;He  who  rises  late  must  gallop  all  day.  Do  you  know  what  that  means,  Packy?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  &quot;What,  Packy?&quot;  &quot;It's  in  the  handwriting  copybook,  sir.&quot;  (The  handwriting  copybook,  with  its  incomprehensible  maxims  in  stiff,  old-  fashioned  copperplate,  in  elegant  lines  and  curves  that  no  young,  inexperienced  hands  could  ever  hope  to  imitate,  was  the  masterwork  on  which  we  were  sup-  posed  to  model  our  penmanship.)  &quot;Packy,  you're  right.  I  suppose  one  way  or  another  the  sum  total  of  wisdom  is  in  the  handwriting  copybook.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  &quot;Diluculo  surgere  saluberrimum  est,  Packy.  To  rise  early  is  most  healthful.&quot;  Tenderly,  with  his  fingertips,  the  Wee  Brother  would  pick  the  feathers  of  the  night  before  from  the  close-cropped  white  head.  &quot;Yes,  [REDACTED];  said  Packy.  &quot;Early  to  bed  and  early  to  rise  makes  a  man  healthy,  wealthy,  and  wise,  Packy.&quot;  With  those  gentle  fingertips  he  would  drum  out  on  Packy's  shoulder  a  rhythm  to  go  with  the  words.  &quot;That's  in  the  handwriting  copybook,  too,  Packy.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  The  only  saying  I  liked  at  all  in  the  handwriting  copybook  was  about  vio-  lets:  &quot;I  would  give  you  some  violets  but  they  withered  when  my  father  died.&quot;  Not  one  of  us-not  even  John  Mac-  Bride,  a  clean  boy  who  was  clever  and  was  taught  by  his  musical  mother  to  sing  Moore's  Melodies  at  parochial  concerts-knew  what  it  meant,  or  who  said  it,  or  who  died,  or  who  wanted  to  give  violets  to  whom,  or  what  violets  were  anyway.  In  spite  of  the  Wee  Brother's  earnest  botanizing  expedi-  tions,  we  couldn't  have  told  a  violet  from  any  flower  except  a  rose,  a  daisy,  a  dandelion,  or  a  primrose.  But,  regard-  less,  we  copied  out  the  words  painfully  and  with  all  the  intensity  of  faith-slop  lightly  up,  slope  heavily  down,  curve  at  thetop  and  curve  at  the  bottom-Packy  peering  so  closely  at  the  page  that  his  nose  was  as  good  as  in  the  inkwell,  the  tip  of  Tall  Jimmy  Clarke's  tongue  peep-  ing  out  like  a  moist  pink  rodent.  We  knew  more  about  nettles  than  about  violets.  For  Pola  was  a  great  be-  liever  in  the  health-giving  powers  of  nettle  tea,  nettle  soup,  or  nettles  as  a  vegetable,  and  it  was  Packy's  task-or  one  of  them-to  gather,  in  the  spring,  the  soft,  succu-  lent  young  nettles  be-  fore  age  had  soured  them  and  forced  them  to  show  their  strings.  The  three  other  horse-  men  went  along  to  help,  and  I  went  along  with  them.  Because  of  the  four  oblong  fields  that  belonged  to  Big  James  Campbell,  the  butcher,  and  the  engine  shed,  and  Spyglass  Hill,  and  the  grass  wigwam,  and  the  cave  at  the  spot  where  four  hedgerows  joined,  and  the  Ali  Baba's  treasure  house  of  a  town  dump,  and  the  old  horse,  and  the  roaring  bull  in  Mac-  Kenna'smeadow,  gath- \n" b"ering  the  nettles  was  not  as  prosaic  a  businessas  you  might  readily  imagine.  You  crossed  the  town  dump,  a  gray-  black  wasteland  smoking  with  an  oc-  casional  volcano  where  discarded  cin-  ders  had  refused  to  die.  There  were  always  a  few  old  people,  sacks  in  hand,  shoulders  hunched  and  eyes  on  the  ground,  wandering  slowly  about,  gath-  ering  the  makings  of  a  fire  and  hoping  for  treasures  of  scrap.  'They  were  quite  frequently  rewarded,  and  the  curious  schoolboy  could  find  there,  too,  objects  to  delight  the  heart.  Tosh  Mullan,  who  was  lucky  at  finding  things,  had  once  come  upon  a  handsome  .22  rifle  that  would  do  everything  but  shoot.  The  best  nettles  were  always  found  on  the  fringe  of  the  dump  just  before  you  ascended  the  slope,  climbed  a  fence,  and  crossed  the  railway  line  to  the  turn-  table  and  the  engine  shed.  &quot;Nettles  for  measles  and  pimples,&quot;  Packy  would  say  as  we  set  to,  pulling  them  up.  &quot;'That's  what  my  Aunt  Pola  says.  Boil  them  in  water,  she  says,  and  drink  the  tea.  She  says  if  you  drink  nettle  tea  you'll  always  have  a  clear  skin.&quot;  &quot;'T  could  do  with  it,&quot;  said  Tall  Jimmy  Clarke.  For  Tosh,  with  a  hang  ing  lower  lip  and  a  squint  and  arecur-  ringrash  of  pimples,  was  not  the  most  beautiful  of  boys.  Yet  even  then  he  had  in  hissocial  relations  the  tolerant  mild-  ness  of  the  natural  professional  fighter,  who  never,  outside  the  ring,  feels  called  upon  to  prove  his  prowess,  and  the  pum-  mellings  with  which  he  responded  to  Tall  Jimmy's  witticisms  were  perfectly  good-natured.  One  day,  he  flourished  in  his  hand  a  full-grown  dead  lamprey  that  Jinkins  had  caught  and  given  to  himand  that  he  carried  as  proudly  as  ifit  had  been  a  policeman's  truncheon,  and,  waving  it  in  his  hand,  he  pursued  Jimmy  with  warlike  whoops  toward  the  railway  line  and  the  engine  shed.  Jinkins,  carrying  his  fishing  rod,  ran  after  them,  and  I  ran  after  Jinkins,  because,  bright  ferret  eyes  glistening  in  his  turnip  of  a  head,  he  had  promised  to  show  me  how  he  caught  fish  and  how,  incidentally,  he  had  acquired  the  name  we  called  him  by.  (I  never  knew  his  Christian  name.)  &quot;Come  on,  Packy!&quot;  Tosh  called.  &quot;We  have  nettles  enough  to  sink  a  battle-  ship.&quot;  Packy  rose,  clutching  his  herbs,  and,  to  excite  our  laughter,  did  his  bear's  gallop  toward  us.  &quot;We'll  cross  over  to  the  engine  shed  and  grease  our  boots,&quot;  he  said.  What  we  used  was  a  thick,  yellow  suetlike  grease  kept  in  little  iron  boxes  on  the  sides  of  the  freight  trucks.  It  was  meant,  I  suppose,  to  cool  the  friction  of  axles  and  wheels  and  not  to  be  applied  to  any  leather  ever  hammered  out  of  an  animal's  hide.  But,  in  ritual  fashion,  like  savages  daubing  on  war  paint,  we  greased  our  boots  with  it  before  we  entered  the  four  fields.  Its  one  bene-  ficial  quality  was  that  it  could  withstand  moisture,  and  if  the  grass  was  wet  the  beads  of  rain  or  dew  danced  like  jewels  on  the  dulled  leather.  With  our  feet  anointed,  we  slipped  through  a  well-worn  hole  in  a  high  hawthorn  hedge  and  into  the  first  field.  Tall  Jimmy  was  in  the  lead,  dancing  a  dance  that  was  halfway  between  his  idea  of  an  Indian  war  dance  and  his  slightly  more  accurate  idea  ofa  sailor's  hornpipe.  Packy  came  at  the  rear,  beaming  like  a  bride  over  his  bouquet  of  nettles.  Pola,  who  never  had  had  a  wedding,  or  a  groom  from  whose  arm  she  could  dangle,  was  an  assiduous  spectator  at  every  wedding  in  the  parish  church,  and  Packy  could  simper  like  any  lace-clad  virgin  just  as  well  as  he  could  prance  like  a  circus  bear.  In  the  middle  of  a  clump  of  rushes,  a  tall,  unheeded  wooden  pole  carried  a  notice  saying  trespassers  would  be  prose-  cuted.  We  regarded  it  as  the  dissolute  members  of  an  aristocratic  family  would  regard  a  family  ghost  who  had  become  an  old-fashioned  bore.  No  longer  even  did  we  use  it  as  a  cockshot  for  cinders  carried  from  the  engine  shed.  &quot;'Tony!&quot;  Tall  Jimmy  shouted.  Run-  ning  away  from  us,  he  called  back  in  an  explanation  no  longer  necessary,  &quot;Watch  me!  I'm  Tom  Mix!&quot;  For  the  old  horse  grazed  or  wearily  sucked  the  grass  in  the  first  field.  Noth-  ing  less  like  the  renowned  Tony  ever  shuffled  along  on  four  shaky  feet.  He  was  an  old  saddle-backed  bay  left  out  there  to  die  in  peace.  'There  were  white  " b"spots  of  age  on  his  hide,  like  stabs  oflichen  on  old  stone.  He  was  just  about  able-and  no  more-to  bear  the  feather-  weight  of  agile  Jimmy,  and  it  was  Jimmy's  delight  to  strad-  dle  on  the  sunken  back  that  seemed  almost  to  creak  like  a  worn  iron  bedstead,  to  ham-  mer  his  heels,  as  if  they  were  spurred,  against  the  withered,  flagging  flanks,  to  hang  from  the  scraggy  neck  as  if  he  was  a  Red  Indian,  to  wind  up  the  exhausted,  slack-springed  body  to  a  trot  in  which  every  leg  seemed  to  limp  away  in  a  dif-  ferent  direction.  &quot;Look  at  him  now!  Hasn't  he  the  lovely  smile?&quot;  Jimmy  pulled  the  lips  apart  to  show  great  green-and-  yellow  teeth  lazily  floating  in  saliva.  They  weren't  bright  or  beautiful,  yetthe  expression  was  more  like  a  smile  than  it  was  like  anything  else.  Tall  Jimmy  on  horseback  leading,  we  went  in  procession  through  the  gapped  hedge  and  up  the  slope  to  the  grass  wigwam  that  Tosh  and  Tall  Jimmy  had  lovingly  plaited  from  branches,  rushes,  and  long  grass.  From  the  wigwam,  you  could  see  the  traffic  on  the  road  to  Clanabogan;  the  long  scimitar-shaped  meadow  where  our  bull  fed;  Pigeon  Top  Mountain,  where  the  sportsmen  went  for  grouse;  the  town's  three  steeples;  the  deep  Drumragh  River,  where  Jin-  kins  fished;  and  the  clanking,  metal,  gymnastic  structure  called  the  Lynn  Bridge,  which  carried  the  railway  over  the  river.  So  we  called  the  place  Spyglass  Hill-from  the  Wee  Brother's  public  readings,  we  knew  all  about  Long  John  Sil-  ver  and  Jim  Hawkins.  The  wigwam  was  a  magic,  restful  place.  Green  light  filtered  down  into  it.  The  air  was  sweet  with  the  smell  of  warm  grass.  That  big  man  James  Campbell,  who  owned  the  fields,  went  to  the  trouble  of  putting  up  notices  banning  trespassers,  but  neither  he  nor  his  foreman  nor  his  workingmen  ever  tampered  with  the  grass  wigwam,  and  it  managed  to  last,  with  repairs  to  meet  the  depredations  of  the  weather,  for  a  whole  long  summer.  All  together,  we  lay  in  the  green  light,  and  Tall  Jim-  my's  exhausted,  discarded  mount  lay  thinking  the  thoughts  of  age  on  the  grass  outside  the  palisade.  &quot;T  hey  From  the  tired  horse  to  the  roaring  bull  was  no  distance  at  all,  because  the  wigwam  was  our  halfway  house  to  the  cave  that  wasn't  a  cave  but  a  sort  of  un-  finished  tunnel  that  cattle  seeking  shade  from  the  sun  had  made  under  branches  at  the  meeting  place  of  four  hedgerows.  Smaller  than  the  cattle,  we  could  pene-  trate  further  into  gloom,  and  then,  part-  ing  a  few  branches,  peer  down  into  the  meadow  where  the  big  red  bull  grazed.  The  game  was  to  roar  at  him  until  he  roared  back.  He  never  failed  to  oblige  us.  &quot;They'll  kill  him  someday,&quot;  Jimmy   said  sadly.  &quot;They'll  kill  him  and  make  Bovril  out  of  him.  That's  what  they  do  with  bulls.&quot;  We  wandered  aimlessly  across  the  grass  thinking  sadly  of  all  the  noble  roaring  bulls,  black  and  red,  who  had  gone  down  to  the  doom  of  being  melted  to  fill  small  bottles  with  meat  ex-  tract,  until,  to  wipe  out  our  despond-  ency,  Tall  Jimmy  seized  one  of  a  pair  of  pitchforks  left  stuck  in  a  hedge  by  some  of  Campbell's  men,  and  shouted,  &quot;We'll  play  ninety-eight!&quot;  This  was  an  offshoot  of  the  Wee  Brother's  fervent  teaching  to  usof  the  long,  sad  history  of  Irish  rebellion.  The  " b"pitchforks,  one  in  the  hands  of  Packy  and  one  in  the  hands  of  Tall  Jimmy,  became  the  pikes  the  boys  of  Wex-  ford  carried  in  1798.  Before  their  glis-  tening  points,  hordes  of  redcoats  fell  back,  and  Tosh  with  the  dead  lamprey  was  beating  an  invisible  big  drum,  and  Jinkins  with  his  fishing  rod  was  a  gal-  loping  lancer,  and  the  high  town  of  New  Ross  and  Three  Bullet  Gate  were  about  to  be  stormed  and  taken  when  Big  James  and  his  foreman  appeared  through  a  gap  in  a  hedge  and  roared  at  us  and  we  ran.  &quot;They'll  arrest  us,  sure  as  God!&quot;  said  Jinkins,  who  had  a  natural  horror  of  the  law.  So  we  ran  faster,  and  the  two  men  for  the  hell  of  it  ran  after  us.  For  my  age  and  the  length  of  my  legs  I  could  run  well,  but  the  Four  Horsemen  were  bigger  and  better  athletes,  and  I  was  losing  ground  \xc2\xbb  badly.  I  stumbled  and  fell,  and  was  resign-  ing  myself  to  arrest  and  prison  when  I  was  picked  up  byPacky  and  carried  and  helped  through  a  narrow  gap  between  two  trees  to  the  covert  of  a  terraced,  whin-dotted  slope  above  the  river.  It  came  rattling  down  over  shal-  lows,  curved  and  spread  out  to  make  a  deep  pool  that  went  on  un-  der  the  railway  and  the  girders  of  the  Lynn  Bridge.  &quot;''That's  where  I  catch  my  fish,&quot;  Jinkins  said.  I  &quot;Where  you  catch  the  jinkins  you  should  throw  back,&quot;  said  Tall  Jimmy.  On  our  river,  the  salmon  fry  and  the  tiny  trout  were  called  jin-  kins,  and  our  friend  had  earned  his  name  from  his  passion  for  catching,  cooking,  and  eating  them-against  all  the  laws  ever  made  for  the  conserving  of  game  fish.  &quot;Come  and  watch  me  catch  them,&quot;  Jinkins  said  to  me.  So  when  we  thought  the  coast  was  clear  and  our  pursuers  gone,  Jinkins  mounted  his  rod  and  readied  his  dry  flies,  and  in  single  file  we  marched  out  from  the  shelter  of  the  whins  to  be  greeted  with  gales  of  friendly  laughter  from  Big  James  and  his  foreman.  They  waved  at  us  through  our  escape  gap  be-  tween  the  two  trees,  and  went  back,  laughing,  toward  Spyglass  Hill.  &quot;They  were  only  fooling  all  the  time,&quot;  said  Packy.  With  a  light  breeze  at  his  back,  Jin-  kins  let  the  long  line  float  out  easily.  The  stiff  hair  stood  upon  him  like  the  bristles  on  a  hedgehog.  His  ferret  eyes  pierced  the  water  forthe  first  white  flash  of  soft  underbelly.  The  small  hook  struck  with  deadly  accuracy,  and  Jinkins  chuckled  to  himself  as  he  unhooked  the  tiny,  silvery,  fluttering  bodies  and  strung      \n\nthem  through  the  gills  on  a  looped,  peeled  ash  twig.  It  was  methodical  massacre,  and  when  it  was  done  we  walked  the  rail-  way  line  to  the  center  of  the  Lynn  Bridge,  opened  a  metal  trapdoor  be-  tween  the  rails,  and  descended  a  ladder  to  a  plank  walk  that  workmen  used  when  inspecting  or  painting  the  girders.  The  deep  water  was  quite  still  below  us.  Packy  held  me  by  the  shoulders,  but  in  spite  of  his  protection  I  had,  that  night,  my  first  falling  nightmare.  &quot;Long  Alec  Nixon,&quot;  Tosh  said,  &quot;drowned  himself  in  that  pool.&quot;  &quot;He  didn't  drown  himself,&quot;  said  Packy.  &quot;He  just  sank.&quot;  &quot;I  saw  them  dragging  the  river  for  his  body,&quot;  Tall  Jimmy  said.  &quot;There  was  a  man  diving  all  the  time  from  a  boat  looking  for  him.&quot;  &quot;We  all  saw  that,&quot;  Jinkins  said.  &quot;They  were  at  it  for  days.&quot;  &quot;He  was  the  best  swimmer  in  the  world,&quot;  Tosh  said.  &quot;He  just  held  his  nose  and  sank  and  drowned  himself.  He  was  always  fighting  with  his  wife.&quot;  &quot;That  doesn't  prove  he  drowned  himself,&quot;  Packy  said.  &quot;You  couldn't  drown  your-  self  just  by  holding  your  nose.&quot;  The  possibility  of  drowning  by  holding  the  nose  was  a  topic  that  kept  us  talking  all  the  way  back  along  the  rusted  branch  line  to  the  town's  auxiliary  goods  station,  where  the  coal  wagons  were  lined  up  with  the  sup-  plies  for  the  lunatic  asylum,  and  halfway  up  the  town's  main  street,  where  shops  were  closed  and  the  teatime  hush  had  de-  scended.  Thought  and  remembrance  came  with  the  hush,  and  we  heard  the  agonized voice  of  Packy.  &quot;Moth-  er  of  God,  I've  lost  my  nettles!&quot;  Red  and  blue  shop  blinds,  carefully  drawn,  made  the  town  look  like  a  place  of  the  dead.  Not  a  nettle  grew  on  the  cruel  pave-  " b" ment.  With  guilt  I  remembered  that  I'd  seen  Packy's  nettles  fall  to  the  grass  when  he  redeemed  me,  the  trespasser.  I  said,  &quot;We'llgo  back  for  more.&quot;  &quot;We  wouldn't  have  time.  We're  late  already.  She'll  murder  me.&quot;  Generously,  Jinkins  said,  &quot;Give  her  a  couple  of  fish.&quot;  &quot;She  never  eats  fish.  She  says  they're  greasy.&quot;  &quot;Give  her  my  ampor  eel,&quot;  said  Tosh.  &quot;Ampor  eel&quot;  was  our  mispronunciation  of  &quot;lamprey.&quot;  But,  sick  to  the  soul,  we  all  knew  that  this  was  no  joke,  for  Pola  put  great  faith  in  nettles.  Then,  as  we  stood,  sadly  thinking,  Big  May  came  to  our  rescue.  She  came  tall,  wild-haired,  and  ragged.  She  came  as  she  always  came-from  a  side  street  of  shabby  brown-and-yellow  brick  houses.  She  bore  in  her  arms  a  jungle  profusion  of  wild  nettles,  and,  bending  her  ear  to  the  sorrowful  tale,  she  said  simply  to  Packy,  &quot;One  of  the  women  I  work  for  is  mad  about  nettles.  But  take  half  of  mine.  I  have  enough  to  physic  the  town-let  alone  one  old  woman.&quot;  She  patted  my  head.  She  said,  &quot;How  do  you  like  the  big  boys?&quot;  She  took  the  lead  as  if  she  was  the  biggest  boy  of  all,  and  we  followed  her  up  the  street  for  fifty  yards  until,  being  Big  May,  she  left  us  to  make  her  own  detour  along  another  side  street.  HE  day  the  Wee  Brother  would  no  longer  close  me  in  the  press  to  slumber  my  way  to  learning  on  the  piled  coats  and  caps,  I  knew  sorrowfully  that  life  had  begun.  W  hat  happened  was  that  one  of  the  scholars,  for  reasons  known  only  to  himself,  had  a  pocket  of  his  coat  full  of  broken  glass.  Turning  over  in  my  slumber,  I  lacerated  my  left  hand-I  still  have  a  faint  scar-and  emerged  when  awakened  dripping  blood.  The  Wee  Brother  looked  as  if  he  and  the  class  were  guilty  of  murder.  He  staunched  the  flow,  sent  Jinkins  to  buy  me  a  bag  of  hard  sweets,  then  sent  me  home  in  the  company  of  shambling  Packy.  It  wasn't  a  serious  wound,  but  it  was  the  beginning  of  the  end.  There-  after,  there  was  nothing  for  me  but  the  common  lot-the  hard  reality  of  wood-  en  desks  and  life.  Remorselessly,  life  was  to  take  me  away  from  Big  May  and  the  Wee  Brother  and  the  Four  Horse-  men.  The  Wee  Brother  is  with  the  saints,  and  Packy  is  more  than  likely  his  fa-  vorite  pupil  still,  for  Packy  died  young.  Short  of  dancing  like  a  bear  and  roaring  like  a  bull,  being  late  for  school  and  be-  ing  kind  to  me  and  gathering  nettles  to  preserve  Pola  from  pimples,  he  never      accomplished  much  in  life  that  I  ever  heard  of.  But  he  had  a  splendid  funeral,  paid  for  by  the  subscriptions  of  the  Wee  Brother's  numerous  clients  and  led  by  Pola  and  the  Wee  Brother  as  chief  mourners.  Tosh  took  to  boxing,  and  retained  his  professional  amiability  except  for  one  unfortunate  moment  when  he  was  en-  gaged  in  conflict  with  a  fighter  who  had  the  provoking  name  of  Kluterbuck.  Every  just  man  loses  his  composure  at  least  once,  and  Tosh  struck  Kluterbuck  very  much  and  very  severely  below  the  belt,  lost  the  fight,  and  gained  a  new  name.  Never  afterward  was  he  known  as  Tosh.  The  change  of  name  may  have  altered  his  character  and  his  attitude  to  life.  He  gave  up  boxing.  He  left  the  town  and  never  came  back.  He  was  last  heard  of,  I've  been  told,  just  before  the  war,  working  in  a  bicycle  factory  in  Coventry.  Jinkins  had  a  mental  breakdown  and  went  for  treatment  to  the  asylum  whose  coal  supply  we  walked  past  the  day  Packy  lost  the  nettles.  He  remained  there  as  a  trusted  patient;  he  works  around  the  grounds  and  spends  all  his  spare  time  fishing  in  the  river  that  flows  just  outside  the  walls-a  tributary  of  the  river  that  flows  under  the  Lynn  Bridge.  Tall  Jimmy  Clarke,  as  you  might  have  guessed,  became  a  jockey,  but  he  took  to  drink,  put  on  weight,  descended  to  truck  driving,  and  became  a  wealthy  owner  of  trucks.  No  longer  as  supple  or  as  close  to  the  ground  as  he  was  that  day  under  the  chestnut  branches,  he  no  longer  makes  money  by  picking  ha'pence  up  with  his  teeth.  But  then,  as  he  told  me  himself,  he  now  has  other  ways  of  earning  his  living.  Big  May  went  off  to  [REDACTED]  and,  if  you  could  believe  on  their  Bible  oaths  the  people  in  the  town  I  came  from,  went  on  thinking  the  longest  way  round  was  the  shortest  way  home.  Her  thick  dark  hair,  the  outline  of  her  strong  jawbone  are  still  visible  to  me.  She  holds  me  pickaback.  Together  we  peer  at  the  flashing  knife  and  the  raving  woman  and  the  slave  of  a  man  in  the  dim  kitch-  en,  and  May  says,  &quot;From  what  they  say,  she  couldn't  cut  a  slice  of  bread.&quot;  To  judge  by  the  tone  of  her  voice  then,  she  never  put  much  weight  on  what  people  said."