 b"OF  the  mental  exercises,  or  fan-  tasies,  I  indulge  into  keep  my-  self  awake  when  I  cannot  sleep,  perhaps  the  most  useless  runs  as  follows:  I  am  the  last  adult  left  on  earth,  in  charge  of  a  huddle  of  children  who  will  bethe  fathers  and  mothers  of  all  future  mankind.  We  are  in  some  sort  of  safe  place  and  have  no  immediate  problems  about  survival  or  keeping  out  the  rain.  I  don't  know  howwe  got  there  and  I  don't  care,  any  more  than  I  concern  myself  with  the  details  of  our  daily  life.  I  am  too  old  now  to  picture  myself  as  the  kind  of  man  who  could  carve  fish-  hooks  out  of  bones  in  an  emergency.  All  that  side  of  life  is  somehow  provided  for;  nor  am  I  answerable  to  anyone  for  a  full  explanation.  If  I  were  cooking  up  an  imaginative  novel,  it  would  be  dif-  ferent;  fiction  is  sacred,  fantasy  is  free.  So,  also,  I  am  not  compelled  to  account  to  myself  for  the  fact  that  all  knowledge  has  disappeared  along  with  my  con-  temporaries.  All  books,  all  instruments  and  apparatus,  all  drugs,  vehicles,  weap-  ons,  factories,  pots,  pans,  and  other  relies  of  civilization  have  been  destroyed  or  buried  irretrievably  under  a  thick  layer  of  radioactive  dust.  I  am  the  sole  repositoryof  the  accumulated  wisdom  and  experience  of  man,  from  pre-Su-  merian  times  to  the  holocaust.  I  feel  the  responsibility  acutely,  and  often  have  to  turn  my  pillow  over  to  keep  a  cool  head  when  I  reflect  that  whatever  I  fail  to  pass  on  to  my  little  band  of  orphans  tumbling  about  so  hap-  pily  in  the  sun  will  be  lost  forever-or  atbest  will  have  to  be  rediscovered  by  the  slow  and  painful  process  of  tral  and  error.  It  seems  to  me  a  terrible  thing  that  the  human  race  should  have  to  wait  another  seven  thousand  years  be-  fore  safety  matches  are  available  again.  I  cannot  bear  to  contemplate  the  repe-  tition  of  the  myriad  ingenious  fallacies  and  misapprehensions  that  have  be-  devilled  the  course  of  human  history.  It  was  some  five  thousand  years  after  the  dawn  of  civilization  (which  I  take  leave  to  date  around  the  sixth  millennium  )  be-  fore  Empedocles  produced  the  notion  that  earth,  air,  fire,  and  water  were  the  four  elements  of  which  everything  was  composed,  and  got  considerable  credit  for  this  error.  More  than  two  thousand  years  later,  imponderables  like  phlogis-  ton,  caloric,  and  ether  were  still  sup-  posed  to  be  at  large  in  the  universe,  accounting  for  things.  We  do  not  want  to  plow  our  way  through  all  that  stuff  again.  And  only  I,  tossing  and  turning  in  my  lonely  bed,  can  prevent  it.  I  must  try  to  put  my  toddlers  on  the  right  lines  about  protons  and  neutrons,  which  is  bound  to  involve  some  pre-  liminary  talk  about  electricity.  And  this  again  reminds  me  that  I  may  not  be  spared  long  enough  for  their  tiny  minds  to  be  ready  for  instruction  about  even  so  elementary  a  matter  as  winding  wire  around  a  magnetized  iron  core.  I  may  be  suffering  from  a  touch  of  stronti-  um  90,  which  could  bea  serious  thing  at  my  age.  In  case  anything  irremedi-  able  happens  to  me  in  the  meantime,  I  ought  to  write  these  things  down.  I  have  paper  and  pencils  in  this  fantasy,  for  I  really  cannot  be  bothered  to  im-  provise  clay  tablets  at  half  past  one  in  the  morning.  But  what  shall  I  write?  Where  shall  I  begin  my  task?  The   phrase  &quot;something  irremediable&quot;  that  came  into  my  head  just  now  is  a  pleas-  ant  Grecism  for  death  and  reminds  me  that  the  achievement  of  ancient  Athens  will  be  lost  forever  unless  I  put  it  down  on  paper.  It  is  a  question  of  time  and  evaluation.  I  find  it  extraor-  dinarily  difficult  to  decide  whether  Sophocles  or  safety  matches  should  come  first.  &quot;Safety  matches  are  a  simple  means  of  producing  fire  and  are  made  by  dip-  ping  thin  pieces  of  wood  into  a  brown  mixture  containing  phosphorus,&quot;  I  see  myself  jotting  down  for  posterity.  &quot;When  the  brown  end  is  rubbed  against  some  more  of  this  brown  stuff,  a  flame  results  and  the  piece  of  wood  burns.  Phosphorus  is  found  in  bones,  if  I  re-  member  rightly,  and  you  will  just  have  " b"to  keep  on  trying  until  you  learn  how  to  extract  it.&quot;  This,  to  my  surprise,  is  the  best  note  I  can  write  about  the  manufacture  of  matches  without  getting  out  of  bed  and  consulting  an  encyclopedia.  I  should  be  sounder  on  Sophocles,  I  think,  but  it  is  hard  to  believe  that  a  people  still  at  the  stage  of  rubbing  sticks  together  would  have  time  for  Greek  tragedy.  I  am  constantly  up  against  this  problem  of  priorities.  I  desperately  want,  forin-  stance,  to  give  them  a  glimmering  about  airplanes,  not  caring  to  think  about  lives  uselessly  thrown  away  two  thousand  years  hence  in  experiments  withcanvas  frameworks  attached  to  the  arms.  But  it  would  be  a  long  business,  and  at  the  end  of  it  I  doubt  whether  a  machine  made  to  my  instructions  would  be  stable  in  a  high  wind.  How  is  it  to  be  powered?  I  daresay  I  could  set  down  the  princi-  ple  of  the  internal  combustion  engine  in  terms  that  would  save  time  for  these  youngsters,  once  they  had  found  out  how  to  make  steel,  and  I  could  add  a  footnote  about  jet  propulsion  for  later  on.  Itis  the  thought  of  the  fuel  that  de-  presses  me.  When  the  whole  human  race  is  numbered  in  tens,  or  even  in  thousands,  how  does  one  present  to  them  in  an  attractive  light,  as  a  worth-  while  operation,  the  process  of  drilling  tremendously  deep  holes  in  the  earth  on  the  off  chance  of  finding  a  substance  that  is  useless  until  you  have  cracked  it?  I  am  up  against  much  the  same  diffi-  culty  over  drip-dry  shirts.  The  truth  seems  to  be  that  you  have  to  have  a  pop-  ulation  running  into  millions  before  any-  one  will  take  the  trouble  to  make  ma-  chines  capable  of  producing  millionsof  shirts.  This  is  the  kind  of  hard  economic  fact  one  comes  up  against  around  3  a.M.,  when  it  begins  to  look  as  if  the  first  essential  step  to  be  taken  by  my  lit-  tle  group  of  survivors  on  the  roadback  to  civilization  is  to  multiply  as  rapidly  as  possible.  I  do  not  feel,  however,  that  I  need  give  them  any  guidance  about  that.  SOMETIMES,  at  about  this  point  in  my  fantasy,  I  half  decide  to  concen-  trate  on  culture,  eked  out  with  a  few  simple  conveniences  made  of  wood.  Aristotle's  definition  of  tragedy;  what-  ever  of  Shakespeare  I  have  by  heart;  the  principle  of  the  lever;  the  golden  section,  if  I  can  be  sure  of  it;  a  rough  sketch  of  a  wheelbarrow-that  would  not  be  a  con-  temptible  contribution  to  the  future  of  the  race.  I  could  add  an  appendix  stat-  ing  a  few  scientific  facts  (the  sun  is  ninety-three  million  miles  away;  water  boils  at  two  hundred  and  twelve  degrees  Fahrenheit)  for  them  to  make  what  they  liked  of.  But  I  can't  be  satisfied  with  it.  There  is  a  sense  of  waste,  of  irreparable  loss.  Beforelong  I  am  stuck  again  with  theold  desire  to  give  them  all  I  know,  convinced  anew  that  I  must  take  the  long-term  view,  that  in  the  long  run  the  merest  hint-a  shadowy  clue  about  the  possibility  of  refrigera-  tion,  pneumatic  tires,  anesthetics,  the  telephone,  dried  milk-is  better  than  the  endless  silence  of  the  tomb.  Am  I  to  lie  here  like  a  hog,  sheltering  behind  the  lateness  of  the  hour,  and  deprive  millions  yet  unborn  of  the  knowledge  that  trees  cut  up  fine,  boiled  into  a  mash,  and  rolled  out  thin  can  be  written  on  with  ink?  I  am  now  face  to  face  with  the  ap-  palling  truth  that  I  have  no  idea  how  ink  is  made.  Is  it  conceivable  that  it  is  still  harvested  from  deliberately  fright  ened  cuttlefish  on  extensive  squid  farms?     If  so,  I  shall  never  touch  it  again.  The  danger  of  setting  down  infor-  mation  fora  too  distant  posterity  is  that  it  may  be  disregarded  in  the  mean-  time-even  lost-or  its  purpose  may  be  misconceived.  I  foresee,  as  the  cocks  begin  to  crow,  the  possibility  that  my  notebooks,  with  their  fragments  of  Tennyson's  &quot;Ulysses,&quot;  their  squiggled  representations  of  sewing  machines  and  teapots,  the  brave  attempt  at  the  bi-  nomial  theorem,  will  within  a  few  gen-  erations  assume  the  status  of  legend,  become  the  corpus  of  a  world  mytholo-  gy.  My  notebooks  may,  though  I  rather  hope  not,  found  a  new  religion.  My  de-  scription  of  the  random  behavior  of  molecules  in  an  expanded  gas  may  be  read  out  on  feast  days  by  some  uncom-  prehending  priest  while  the  multitude  prostrates  itself  in  awe  and  terror.  This  is  a  risk  that  I  am  prepared  to  take.  Justice  will  in  the  end  be  done.  Some  Schliemann  of  the  future,  filled  with  burning  faith,  will  unearth  with  his  primitive  spade  the  proof  that  my  writings  are  as  true  as  Homer's.  &quot;I  have  gazed,&quot;  he  will  report  in  a  dramatic  smoke  signal,  &quot;upon  the  veritable  egg  whisk  of  the  Notebooks.&quot;  This  will  cause  a  proper  stir.  The  knowledge  that  the  Notebooks  are  not  Myth  but  Man-  ual  is  bound  to  change  the  course  of  history.  The  tribe  or  clan  that  owns  them,  with  the  secret  of  the  spoked  wheel  safe  in  its  grasp,  must  inevita-  bly  predominate.  My  book  will  become  the  Book  of  Power-closely  guarded,  eagerly  sought,  probably  fought  for.  The  thought  that  my  patient  labor  may  well  become  the  cause  of  World  War  IV  sometimes,  though  not  invari-  ably,  sends  me  to  sleep. "