 b"IN  this  dream,  which  I  have  had  on  the  night  of  the  full  moon  for  the  past  three  months,  I  am  giving  a  cocktail  party  in  honor  of  Yma  Sumac,  the  Peruvian  singer.  'This  is  strange  at  once,  for  while  I  have  unbounded  ad-  miration  for  four-octave  voices,  I  have  never  met  Miss  Sumac,  and,  even  in  a  dream,  it  seems  unlikely  that  I  should  be  giving  her  a  party.  No  matter.  She  and  I  are  in  the  small  living  room  of  my  apartment,  on  Charles  Street,  in  Greenwich  Village,  and  we  are  getting  along  famously.  I  have  told  her  several  of  my  Swedish-dialect  stories,  and  she  has  reciprocated  by  singing  for  me,  in  Quechua,  a  medley  of  Andean  folk  songs.  Other  guests  are  expected  mo-  mentarily.  I  have  no  idea,  however,  who  any  of  them  will  be.  Miss  Sumac  is  wearing  a  blue  ball  gown  and  I  am  in  white  tie  and  tails  Obviously,  despite  the  somewhat  unfashionable  neighborhood  and  the  cramped  quarters  of  my  apartment,  it  is  to  be  a  pretty  swell  affair.  In  any  case,  I  have  spread  sev-  eral  dishes  of  Fritos  about  the  room,  and  on  what  is  normally  my  typing  ta-  ble  there  is  a  bowl  of  hot  gliigg.  The  doorbell  rings.  A  guest!  I  go  to  the  door,  and  there,  to  my  astonished  delight,  is  Ava  Gardner.  This  is  going  to  bea  bit  of  all  right,  I  think.  &quot;'Tom,  darling!&quot;  she  says,  embracing  me  warmly.  &quot;How  won-  derful  of  you  to  have  asked  me.&quot;  In  my  waking  hours,  unfortunately,  I  have  never  met  Miss  Gard-  ner.  In  my  dream,  though,  my  guests  seem  to  know  me  rather  inti-  mately,  while,  oddly,  none  of  them  seem  to  know  each  other.  Ap-  parently  it  is  their  strong  common  affection  for  me  that  has  brought  them  to  Charles  Street.  For  my  part,  although  I  immediately  recog-  nize  each  guest  as  he  or  she  arrives,  I  have  no  memory  of  having  ever  met  any  of  them,  or,  for  that  matter,  of  hav-  ing  invited  them  to  a  party  in  my  apartment.  On  with  the  dream,  however.  &quot;Miss  Ava  Gardner,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;I'd  like  you  to  meet  Miss  Y\xc2\xa5ma  Sumac.&quot;  &quot;Charmed,&quot;  says  Miss  Sumac.  &quot;Delighted,&quot;  counters  Miss  Gardner.  &quot;Ah,  but  Tom,&quot;  says  Miss  Sumac,  with  an  enchanting  laugh  (which  runs  up  the  scale  from  E  above  middle  C  to  C  above  high  C),  &quot;let  us  not,  on  this  of  all  occasions,  be  formal.  Por  favor,  in-  troduce  each  guest  only  by  the  first  name,  so  that  we  may  all  quicklybe-  come-how  shall  I  say?  -amigos.&quot;  Typical  Peruvian  friendliness,  I  think,  and  reintroduce  the  two.  &quot;Ava,  Yma,&quot;  I  say.  We  sit  around  for  some  time,  sipping  glhiigg  and  munching  Fritos.  Things  seem  to  be  going  well.  The  doorbell  rings  again.  'The  second  guest  is  a  man-Abba  Eban,  the  former  Israeli  Ambassador  to  the  United  Nations.  Again  I  make  the  introductions,  and,  bowing  to  the  wishes  of  the  guest  of  honor,  keep  things  on  a  first-name  basis.  &quot;Abba,  Yma;  Abba,  Ava,&quot;  Isay.  I  stifle  a  grin,  but  neither  Miss  Sumac  nor  my  two  other  guests  see  anything  amusing  in  the  exchange.  We  chat.  The   bell  rings  again,  and  I  am  pleased  to  find  Oona  O'Neill,  Charlie  Chaplin's  wife,  at  the  door.  She  is  alone.  I  bring  her  into  the  room.  &quot;Oona,  Yma;  Oona,  Ava;  Oona,  Abba,&quot;  I  say.  We  are  standing  in  a  circle  now,  smiling  brightly  butnot  talking  much.  I  sense  aslight  strain,  but  the  party  is  young  and  may  yet  come  to  life.  The  bell  again.  It  is  another  man-Ugo  Betti,  the  Italian  playwright.  A  bit  hur-  riedly,  I  introduce  him  to  the  circle.  &quot;Ugo,  Yma;  Ugo,Ava;  Ugo,  Oona;  Ugo,  Abba,&quot;  I  say.  Miss  Sumac  gives  me  an  enigmatic  glance  that  I  try  to  interpret.  Boredom?  Thirst?  No,  she  looks  almost  irritated.  Hastily,  I  replenish  everyone's  glass.  For  some  reason,  I  begin  to  hope  that  no  other  guests  havebeen  invited.  'The  doorbell  rings  once  again,  however,  and  I  open  the  door  on  two  lovely  actresses,  Ona  Munson  and  IdaLupino.  This  gives  me  a  happy  inspiration  for  my  in-  troductions.  &quot;Ona  and  Ida,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;surely  you  know  Yma  and  Ava?  Ida,  Ona-Oona,  Abba.&quot;  Damn!  It  doesn't  come  out  even.  &quot;Ida,  Ona-Ugo,&quot;  I  finish  lamely.  I  have  scarcely  given  Miss  Munson     " b"and  Miss  Lupino  their  first  drinks  when  I  am  again  summoned  to  the  door.  My  guests  stand  stony-faced  as  I  usher  in  the  new  arrival,  the  young  Aga  Khan.  He  is  looking  exceptionally  well  turned  out  in  a  dinner  jacket  with  a  plaid  cummer-  bund.  Smiling  too  cheerfully,  I  intro-  duce  him  to  the  waiting  group.  &quot;Folks,&quot;  I  say,  using  a  word  I  have  always  de-  tested,  &quot;here's  the  Aga  Khan!  You  know.&quot;  But  there  is  silence,  so  I  must  continue.  &quot;Aga-Yma,  Ava,  Oona,  Ona  'n'  Ida,  Abba  'n'  Ugo.&quot;  The  Aga  Khan  and  Mr.  Eban,  I  no-  tice,  take  an  immediate  dislike  to  each  other,  and  I  begin  to  feel  an  unmistaka-  ble  pall  descending  over  my  party.  I  suggest  a  game  of  charades.  This  is  met  with  glacial  looks  from  everyone,  in-  cluding  Miss  Gardner,  whose  earlier  affection  for  me  has  now  totally  van-  ished.  When  the  doorbell  rings  this  time,  everybody  turns  and  glares  at  the  door.  I  open  it  and  discover  another  pair-Ira  Wolfert,  the  novelist,  and  Ilya  Ehrenburg,  the  Russian  novelist.  The  latter,  I  know,  is  quite  a  man-of-  the-world,  so  I  try  a  new  approach.  &quot;Ilya,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;why  don't  you  just  in-  troduce  yourself  and  Ira?  You  know  all  these  lovely  people,  don't  you?&quot;  &quot;N  [REDACTED];  says  Mr.  Ehrenburg.  &quot;Can't  say  that  I  do.&quot;    &quot;Oh,  all  right,&quot;  I  say.  &quot;Ilya,  Ira,  here's  Y\xc2\xa5ma,  Ava,  Oona.  Ilya,  Ira-  Ona,  Ida,  Abba,  Ugo,  Aga.&quot;  I  ask  Miss  Sumac  to  sing  for  us.  She  refuses.  We  continue  with  the  ghiigg  and  some  hopelessly  inane  small  talk.  Mr.  Eban  and  the  Aga  Khan  stand  at  opposite  sides  of  the  room,  eying  each  other.  I  begin  to  wish  I'd  never  given  the  goddam  party.  Ona  Munson  jostles  Ugo  Betti's  elbow  by  accident,  spilling  his  drink.  I  spring  forward  to  put  them  at  their  ease,  whipping  a  handkerchief  from  my  pocket.  &quot;Never  mind!&quot;  I  ery.  &quot;No  damage  done!  Ugo,  you  go  get  yourself  another  drink.  I'll  just  wipe  this  gliigg  off  the,  uh,  riigg.&quot;  The  guests  fix  me  with  narrowed  eyes.  At     this  moment,  Eva  Gabor,  the  Hun-  garian  actress,  sweeps  through  the  door,  which  I  have  cleverly  left  open.  Una-  ware  of  the  way  things  are  going,  she  embraces  me  and  turns,  beaming,  to  meet  the  others.  Inevitably,  I  must  make  the  introductions.  I  start  rapidly.  &quot;Eva,  meet  Yma  and  Ava  and  Oona-&quot;  But  then  I  find  that  Miss  Gabor  is  pausing  to  hug  each  guest  in  turn,  so  I  am  forced  to  make  the  remaining  in-  troductions  separately.  &quot;Eva,  Ona;  Eva,  Ida;  Eva,  Ugo;  Eva,  Abba;  Eva,  Ilya;  Eva,  Ira;  Eva,  Aga.&quot;  This  is  a  terrible  party.  All  the  men  have  bunched  up.  We  stand  in  a  circle,  glowering  at  one  another.  I  can  think  of  nothing  tosay.  I  feel  oddly  hemmed  in,  like  a  man  who  is  about  to  be  stoned  to  death.  &quot;Am  I  late?&quot;  asks  the  actress  Uta  Hagen  gaily  as  she  comes  tripping  into  the  room.  &quot;No,  no!&quot;  I  say,  gallantly  taking  her  arm  and  steering  her  at  once  toward  the  punch  bowl  and  away  from  the  others.  &quot;Please  have  the  common  decency  to  introduce  your  guests  to  one  another,&quot;  says  Miss  Sumac,  in  a  cold  monotone.  &quot;And  in  the  proper  manner.&quot;  In  the  dream,  Yma  Sumac  seems  to  have  some  kind  of  holdover  me,  and  I  " b"must  do  as  she  wishes.  &quot;O.K.,  O.K.,&quot;  I  snap  crossly.  &quot;Uta,  Y\xc2\xa5ma;  Uta,  Ava;  Uta,  Oona;  Uta,  Ona;  Uta,  Ida;  Uta,  Ugo;  Uta,  Abba;  Uta,  Ilya;  Uta,  Ira;  Uta,  Aga;  Uta,  Eva.&quot;  I  turn  to  see  if  this  has  placated  Miss  Sumac,  but  she  coldly  ignores  me.  I  have  begun  to  hate  her.  Then  I  discover  that  the  gliigg  has  run  out,  and  I  am  forced  to  offer  my  guests  rye-and-7-Up.  In  the  hope  that  no  further  company  will  arrive,  I  silent-  ly  close  the  door.  The  bell  rings  instant-  ly,  however,  and  I  feel  a  chill  run  down  my  spine.  I  pretend  not  to  hear  it.  &quot;Answer  the  door,&quot;  Miss  Sumac  says  peremptorily.  My  circle  of  guests  moves  menacingly  toward  me.  With  a  plummeting  heart,  I  open  the  door.  Standing  before  me,  in  immaculate  eve-  ning  dress,  is  a  sturdy,  distinguished-  looking  man.  He  is  the  Polish  concert  pianist  Mieczyslaw  Horszowski.  &quot;Come  in,  Mieczyslaw!&quot;  I  cry,  with  tears  in  my  eyes.  &quot;I've  never  been  so  glad  to  see  anyone  in  my  whole  life!&quot;  And  here,  always,  my  dream  ends. "