 b"WE  know  now  that  everything  is  the  opposite  of  what  it  seems--  that  lavish  tipping  conceals  a  niggardly  nature,  filial  devotion  the  wish  to  do  one's  parents  in,  and  sexualath-  leticism  a  basic  doubt  of  one's  mascu-  linity-but  we  did  not  always  know  it,  and  the  knowledge  has  enormously  widened  our  horizons.  My  own  doubt  of  my  sexual  adequacy  dates  back  some  years  to  a  wild  Saturday-night  party  where  I  found  myself  messing  around  with  two  women  at  once.  This  is  what  happened.  I  had  taken  a  shine  to  a  tall  brunette  who  wore  ared  silk  dress  and  a  perfume  that  must  have  cost  fifteen  cents  an  ounce.  She  was  a  model,  though  scarcely  of  intelligence,  and,  soon  tiring  of  the  canoodle  with  which  we  had  been  furthering  our  acquaintance  on  a  corner  couch,  I  drifted  out  to  the  terrace  for  a  breath  of  air-carrying  her  spoor  with  me,  evidently,  because  the  girl  with  whom  I  took  up  out  there  drew  back  at  one  point  and,  sniffing,  asked,  &quot;What's  that  you're  wearing?&quot;  I  had  to  admit  that  the  fragrance  adhering  to  the  folds  of  my  clothing  had  been  picked  up  in  a  canoodle  with  another  woman  a  few  minutes  before.  &quot;Well,  wear  it  in  health,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Because  you're  not  admitting,  you're  bragging-and  when  a  man  does  that  it's  for  a  reason.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;He's  got  to  prove  something  he  isn't.&quot;  Her  name  was  Peggy  there  was  no  doubt  about  it-and  she  was  a  dancer  in  a  ballet  troupe.  They  were  exponents  not  of  the  classic  ballet  but  of  the  more  modern  variety  in  which  the  dances-spastic,  vital-are  often  concerned  with  the  depicture  of  contem-  porary  phenomena  such  as  slum  clear-  ance  or  the  installation  of  high-tension  wires  through  valleys  in  which  people  have  hitherto  lived  in  peace.  A  phonograph  playing  jazz  had  start-  ed  up  inside  the  house,  and  I  said,  &quot;Shall  we?&quot;  After  I  had  propelled  her  for  some  measures  around  the  pebble  floor  of  the  terrace,  she  leaned  back  and  said,  &quot;You're  very  graceful.&quot;  I  shrugged  and  began  to  wag  my  shoulders  in  an  exaggerated  fashion  to  suggest  that  this  was  not  unqualifiedly  true,  or  indicated  at  best  a  merely  prim-  itive  zest  for  rhythm.  &quot;How  about  din-  ner  tomorrow  night?&quot;&quot;  I  asked,  still  dancing.  &quot;You  certainly  lay  it  on  fast.&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,  later  in  the  week.&quot;  We  did  eventually  have  dinner,  and  afterward  went  up  to  my  place.  There,  after  some  hard-breathing  importunities  in  shirtsleeves  on  my  part,  she  forced  me  gently  back  and  said,  with  an  under-  standing  laugh,  &quot;Don't  struggle  so  hard,  Goof.&quot;  It  was  the  nickname  by  which  I  was  affectionately  known  in  my  set  in  those  days.  \xc2\xabYou're  the  one  who's  struggling,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  mean  that  way.  I  mean  don't  fight  so  hard  to  prove  what  you  feel  this  need  to  prove-that  you're  a  man.&quot;  I  rose  and  put  on  my  coat.  &quot;Listen,  macushla,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;there  are  plenty  more  names  in  the  little  old  black  book.  More  than  you  can  shake  a  stick  at.&quot;  &quot;You  see?&quot;  she  said,  spreading  her  hands.  &quot;That's  what  I  mean.&quot;  I  called  the  girl  of  whose  essence  I  had  reeked  in  the  first  instance,  when  all  this  had  got  started,  and  askedher  for  a  date.  She  was  evidently  in  more  black  books  than  I  couldshake  a  stick  at,  because  it  was  a  good  month  beforeshe  could  &quot;tuck  me  in  on  Friday,&quot;  by  which  time  word  had  got  around  that  Goof  was  racing  his  motor,  and  why.  In  the  cab,  after  dinner,  I  seized  her  in  a  pas-  sionate  embrace  and  began  to  devour  her  with  kisses,  gobbling  her  throat,  her  arms,  her  shoulders.  She  wriggled  free  of  my  grasp  after  a  moment,  and  sat  back  to  tidy  herself.  &quot;We  all  admire  the  way  you're  fight-  ing  homosexuality,  Goof,&quot;  she  said.  I  nodded,  looking  out  the  window.  &quot;We'll  goup  to  my  place  and  talk  about  it,&quot;  I  said.  I  became  more  and  more  disturbed  emotionally  as  what  knowledgeable  friends  seemed  to  see  as  evidence  of  some  deep-seated  conflict  continued  to  mount.  It  was  a  vicious  circle,  of  course,  with  each  attempt  to  allay  the  fear  serv-  ing  merely  to  offer  more  grounds  for  it.  I  became  by  turns  moody  and  irritable.  It  was  then  that  I  met  a  woman  such  as  a  man  with  a  problem  like  mine  is  bound  to  meet  sooner  or  later-a  woman  keen  for  the  challenge  to  straighten  him  out.  [REDACTED]  name  was  Ada  Purchase,  and  a  nicer  person  I  have  never  come  across.  She  had  straight  auburn  hair  drawn  into  a  biscuit  behind,  and  sturdy,     JANVARY  G6,  19  G2  well-cut  features,  especially  on  Satur-  day,  when  she  would  drive  me  out  to  the  beach  in  her  car  and  explain  things  to  me  that  I  didn't  see  because  they  were  under  my  nose.  She  had  a  wide  knowl-  edge  of  all  thethings  that  make  people  tick,  with  a  vocabulary  that  made  the  intellectual  in  me's  eyespop.  &quot;This  bealth  club  that  you  helong  to,&quot;  she  said  oneday  as  we  were  sitting  on  the  sand,  &quot;and  those  daily  exercises  that  you  do.  Why  do  you  think  you  go  in  for  all  that,  Goof?&quot;  'To  keep  fit?&quot;  &quot;No.  To  cut  a  figure.  To  cultivate  a  masculine  ideal  that  inwardly  you  don't  feel  you  measure  up  to.&quot;  &quot;Shall  I  quit?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  not.  Just  recognize  why  you  have  the  obsession.  The  important  thing  is  to  have  insight  into  ourselves.&quot;  As  she  spoke,  she  would  often  pound  the  sand  with  the  heel  of  her  shoe,  which  she  had  taken  off,  to  emphasize  some  point,  while  I  nodded  and  listened.  I  remem-  ber  that  the  shoe  was  &quot;sensible.&quot;  Things  got  worse  before  they  got  better,  as  they  usually  do  in  cases  of  this  kind,  where  increasing  insight  at  first  stirs  up  a  corresponding  resistance,  much  as  a  medication  sent  into  fight  a  disease  often  temporarily  &quot;muddles&quot;  it.  They  came  to  a  head  rather  unexpect-  edly,  one  night,  as  Ada  and  I  were  sitting  in  a  bar  not  far  from  her  place,  drinking  beer.  I  had  by  now  thrown  away  the  black  book  and  was  seeing  only  her,  which  showed  in  itself  an  increasing  confidence  in  my  prowess  with  women.  We  were  occupying  a  booth  near  the  front  of  the  tavern.  At  the  bar  itself  were  one  other  couple,  a  middle-aged  woman  in  a  soiled  trench  coat  and  a  hus-  sar's  hat,  and  a  thickset  man  with  a  red  neck  that  overflowed  his  shirt  collar  in  a  series  of  small  tires.  In  a  lull  in  both  strains  from  the  jukebox  and  our  own  conversation,  we  listened  to  what  he  was  saying  to  the  woman.  He  was  explain-  ing  the  meaning  of  the  term  &quot;Laissez-  faire&quot;  to  her.  &quot;David  Niven  has  got  it.  George  Sanders.  Actors  like  that,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Means  suave  stuff.  Man  of  the  world.&quot;  There  was  an  exchange  of  arch  references  to  himself,  after  which  he  laughed  and,  spreading  a  beefy  arm  around  her,  gave  her  a  woolly  hug.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  observed  to  Ada,  &quot;there's  no  doubt  Ae's  heterosexual.&quot;  My  remark  had  the  misfortune  of  falling  into  a  general  silence,  and  he  heard  it.  He  turned  around,  gave  me  a  look,  and  walked  the  few  steps  over  to  our  booth.  &quot;Was  you  referrin'  to  me,  bud?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Why,  yes,&quot;  I  answered,  with  an  in-  gratiating  smile,  risingto  my  feet  as  a  " b"gesture  of  courtesy.  &quot;I  just  said  you  were  heterosexual.&quot;  &quot;T  hat's  what  I  thought.&quot;  He  gave  his  trousers  a  hitch,  and  his  chest  swelled  up  like  a  blowfish.  &quot;Care  to  back  up  them  insinuations  with  a  lit-  tle  action,  and  maybe  see  if  there's  any  truth  in  them?&quot;  &quot;Apparently  you  misun-  derstand  the  term.&quot;  I  laughed  good-naturedly  at  our  little  contretemps,  at  the  same  time  evaluating  the  mch  of  forehead,  or  less,  that  separated  his  thick  black  hair  from  his  beetling  brows.  &quot;It  simply  means  that  in  your  case  things  are  exactly  as  they  seem.  Canoodling  with  every  confidence  in  self,  and  with  great  laissezx-  faire,  I  might  add-&quot;  &quot;Hell  business  is  that  of  yours?  Hell  do  you  think  you  are  anyway,  coming  around  here  giving  people  angles  on  theirself!?  I'm  just  as  normal  as  youany  day,  as  I'm  ready  to  step  outside  and  prove-or  stay  right  in  here,  if  you'd  rath-  [REDACTED];  He  gave  his  belt  another  truculent  hitch.  &quot;But  the-&quot;  &quot;Look,  bud,  I  don't  care  to  hear  any  more  about  this  particular  wrinkle  to-  night.  If  you're  so  sure  you're  in  the  clear  about  all  them  fancy  names  your  sort  likes  to  go  around  calling  people  to  show  they're  educated,  maybe  you're  ready  for  that  little  demonstration.  Or  maybe  if  I  flatten  that  nose  of  yours  you  won't  have  so  much  trouble  keep-  ing  it  out  of  other  people's  business.&quot;  With  that,  he  let  fly  with  ahefty  sock.  It  was  here  that  my  daily  exercising  at  the  health  club  paid  off.  I  not  only  worked  out  with  the  bar  bells  and  the  wall  pulleys  in  the  gymnasium,  I  also  took  boxing  lessons  from  an  old  ex-pro  the  club  kept  around  for  members  in-  terested  in  learning  the  manly  art  of  self-defense.  My  right  had  been  de-  veloped  to  a  point  where  all  I  needed,  among  the  violent  but  rather  wild  swings  into  which  my  assailant  now  threw  himself,  was  one  solid  uppercut.  Good  footwork  and  the  knack  of  finely  timed  ducking  sufficed  to  elude  those  in-  tended  haymakers,  which  could  be  seen  coming  a  mile  off,  and  which  wore  nobody  out  but  himself.  I  had  youth  on  my  side,  at  least  in  those  days,  and  he  the  disadvantage  of  a  life  that  may  very  well  have  been  sedentary-like  That's  precisely  truck  driving.  I  saw  my  chance  in  a  momentary  pause  in  the  snorting  and  flailing,  and  let  him  have  it.  My  punch  caught  him  squarely  on  the  jaw  and  sent  him  backward  into  the  jukebox,  down  whose  decorated  slopes  he  slid  to  the  floor,  where  he  re-  mained  ina  sitting  position.  Dazedly,  he  raised  a  hand-not  to  the  chin  I  had  clipped  but  to  the  back  of  his  noggin.  He  had  evidently  struck  it  on  the  chrome  trimming  of  the  jukebox,  mak-  ing  that  contraption  very  much  my  ally.  I  murmured  a  word  of  anxious  inquiry  over  him,  and  then  Kelped  him  to  the  bar.  A  goose  egg  seemed  in  the  making,  but  nothing  more  serious  than  that.  At  this  point,  his  lady  friend  took  over,  and  I  looked  around  for  mine.  Ada  was  standing  in  the  doorway,  poised  for  flight.  &quot;For  God's  sake,  let's  get  out  of  here!&quot;  she  whispered.  I  dropped  a  dollar  on  our  table  and  hur-  ried  out  after  her.  WE  walked  rapidly  down  the  street,  Ada  holding  my  arm  first  with  one  hand,  then  both.  I  sensed  a  subtle  but  unmistakable  change  in  her  attitude.  It  was  an  attitude  of  pride  in  her  escort.  &quot;You  did  all  right  in  there,  I  must  say,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  handle  yourself  beautifully.&quot;  I  shrugged  and  said  it  was  nothing.  Her  apartment  was  only  three  blocks  away.  When  we  reached  it,  I  said  good  night  to  her  in  the  hall.  &quot;Don't  you  want  to  come  in?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Not  tonight.&quot;  I  was  developing  more  and  more  self-confidence.  I  didn't  call  her  that  week  or  the  next.  The  week  after  that,  she  called  me.  &quot;Would  you  like  to  go  to  the  Hig-  ginsons'  party?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;I  don't  care  if  I  do,&quot;  I  said.  We  went,  and  had  a  very  good  time.  She  called  me  again  the  following  week,  and  invited  me  to  dinner,  which  she  said  she  would  cook  herself.  We  were  married  toward  the  end  of  that  year,  and  now  live  in  a  cottage  in  the  country.  The  grass  goes  uncut  in  the  summer  and  the  snow  unshovelled  in  the  winter,  and  the  house  is  generally  a  mess,  but  she  never  badgers  me  about  chores.  She  knows  I'm  a  perfectionist  and  that  I  can't  get  started  for  fear  of  failure. "