  ON  LINE  WAS  on  my  way  to  the  Met  to  be  a  standee.  I  take  no  responsibility  for  that  unpleasant  word.  I  didn't  make  it  up,  and  it  is  accepted  by  Au-  thority.  &quot;Standees  must  retain  their  ticket  stubs  throughout  the  perform-  ance,&quot;  says  a  sign  on  the  auditorium  wall.  Who  am  I  to  argue  that  the  word  &quot;stander&quot;  would  be  simpler  and  more  grammatical?  As  initiates  usually  do,  I  felt  apprehensive.  Would  I  make  it  without  weakening?  Even  more  im-  portant,  would  I  fit  in'?  My  compan-  ions-my  daughter,  [REDACTED],  and  her  husband,  Al-had  told  me  that  standees  are  very  much  a  special  breed  and  have  their  own  rules,  their  own  traditions.  We  were  to  be  four-Al  and  [REDACTED]  and  Gianna,  AJ's  cousin,  and  me.  The  first  three  were  veteran  standees.  A  few  friends  of  this  nucleus  had  indicated  that  they  might  or  might  not  turn  up,  but  there  was  no  question  of  our  wait-  ing  for  them;  we  could  always  meet,  they  said,  on  line.  Therefore,  at  four  in  the  afternoon,  Al  and  [REDACTED]  and  I  set  out.  Gianna  was  to  join  us  at  the  Met.  The  performance  we  were  aim-  ing  for  was  &quot;La  Traviata,&quot;  chosen  by  Al  because  Licia  Albanese  was  singing  Violetta,  and  he  has  a  special  devotion  to  Albanese.  He  said,  &quot;She's  not  so  young  any  more,  but  she's  wonderful  all  the  same.  'There's  nobody  like  her.&quot;  It  had  rained  all  day,  but  now  the  rain  had  stopped  and  the  air  was  rapid-  ly  cooling.  Dark  fell  slowly.  We  walked  up  the  east  side  of  [REDACTED]  and  peered  across  the  street  at  the  entrance  to  the  Met.  If  the  line  looked  long,  we  would  have  to  join  it  immediately.  Only  a  few  people  were  there,  however,  so  Al  made  plans  and  issued  commands  like  a  gen-  eral.  &quot;What  we'll  do  is  grab  a  front  table  in  the  cafeteria,  here,  where  we  can  keep  an  eye  on  the  line.  We  want  to  get  places  near  that  store  entrance  in  the  middle  of  the  block.  When  the  end  of  the  line  is  nearly  there,  we  move  in.  Then  if  it  rains  you  can  stand  inside  the  doorway.  Last  year,  I'd  have  been  able  to  do  all  the  standing  while  you  stayed  here  and  joined  me  at  the  last  minute,  but  they  don't  allow  that  any  more.  They've  tightened  up.  You  have  to  be  on  line  all  along,  nowadays.&quot;  &quot;What  about  Gianna?&quot;  [REDACTED]  asked.  &quot;Will  they  let  her  stand  with  [REDACTED]?  »  &quot;We'll  play  it  by  ear,&quot;  Al  said.  &quot;If  nobody  squawks  when  she  arrives,  she  can  join  us.  She  knows  the  rules.&quot;  No  cafeteria  is  likely  to  be  crowded  at  that  time  of  the  afternoon,  and  we   had  the  whole  great,  shiny  place  almost  to  ourselves.  As  we  carried  our  trays  to  the  front  table  with  strange  after-  noon  choices  of  food--salad  and  bread  and  cheese--the  man  at  the  cash  regis-  ter  greeted  Al  with  a  glad  cry  and  de-  tained  him  for  a  few  minutes,  after  which  Al  arrived  at  the  table  pleased  and  excited.  He  said,  &quot;W  hat  do  you  know?  That  fellow  says  he  remembers  me  for  twenty  years.  Twenty  years  he's  been  here  and  I've  been  coming  to  the  Met.  He  told  me  he  remembers  when  I  was  a  little  kid  on  line.&quot;  We  looked  at  the  cashier,  and  he  nodded  vigorously,  grinning  and  show-  ing  with  his  hand  how  high,  or  low,  Al  used  to  be.  Outside  the  window,  an  endless  pa-  rade  walked  by-women,  for  the  most  part.  They  had  such  varieties  of  shapes  and  colors  and  costume  that  I  had  a  vi-  sion  of  all  the  rooftops  of  the  city  be-  |&lt;  ing  lifted  every  morning,  as  if  it  were  |  an  exposed  ant  colony,  and  of  hundreds  and  thousands  of  females  getting  |.  dressed,  each  one  fiercely  concentrat-  [;  ing  on  what  she  was  going  to  wear.  Will  these  shoes  go  with  that  bag?  Can  I  wear  this  dress  once  more  before  it's  cleaned?  Is  it  warm  enough  for  a  suit?  Now,  hurrying  past,  they  were  still  con-  centrating,  but  inwardly,  because  they  were  tired.  They  were  going  home.  None  of  them  looked  around.  Across  the  street,  in  front  of  the  Met,  the  people  on  line  were  quite  different.  They  had  leisure;  they  watched  every-  body.  Their  heads  moved  slowly  back  and  forth,  taking  in  the  scene.  More  and  more  of  them  were  lining  up,  and  Al  said,  &quot;We'll  go  now.&quot;  E  crossed  over  and  got  nicely  placed  just  at  the  doorway  of  the  store,  but  the  store  was  not  yet  locked  up  for  the  night,  and  we  stayed  clear  of  it,  as,  Al  said,  etiquette  demanded.  The  dark  above  us  was  now  complete,  and  the  street  was  streams  and  blobs  of  light.  The  grimly  hurrying  parade  grew  thinner.  A  brisk  wind  drove  dirt  along  the  street.  Blinking  in  it,  I  did  not  see  Gianna  until  she  put  a  hand  on  my  arm.  &quot;Oh,  good!  You  made  it,&quot;  said  [REDACTED].  &quot;I  made  it,  but  I'm  late,&quot;  Gianna  said.  &quot;At  the  last  minute,  my  boss  got  awfully  talkative.&quot;  She  slipped  into  line  next  to  me,  glancing  cautiously  at  the  people  behind  our  party.  Al  said,  &quot;No-  body  squawked,  so  relax.  You  had  any-  thing  to  eat?&quot;  She  hadn't,  so  he  took  a  risk  and  left  his  place  to  get  hot  dogs  for  Gianna  and    coffee  for  all  of  us.  I  bought  an  eve-  ning  paper  from  a  newsboy  who  came  by  hawking  them.  I  had  expected  a  cer-  tain  bonhomie  on  line-general  con-  versation-but  it  wasn't  like  that  at  all.  Though  many  people  recognized  each  other  and  raised  a  hand  in  greeting,  they  weren't  talkative,  perhaps  because  it  was  cold.  Each  stood  alone,  with  hunched  shoulders,  and  thought  his  private  thoughts.  They  were  all  sorts  of  people,  more  young  ones  than  old.  Minute  by  minute,  the  clock  on  the  marquee  inched  on.  Now  the  store  was  dark,  and  we  took  turns  standing  in  the  shelter  of  its  doorway,  but  the  wind  sought  us  out  just  the  same.  Be-  hind  us,  the  line  stretched  around  the  corner  and  disappeared.  Al  told  me  that  only  a  hundred  and  sixty-four  standees  would  be  allowed  in-that  surplus  can-  didates  are  warned  that  they  are  wasting  their  patience.  &quot;Sometimes  very  dressed-up  women  come  by,&quot;  said  [REDACTED]  to  me,  &quot;and  then  everybody  makes  mocking  noises.  But  mostly  they  don't  come  bcfore  we  move  on  into  the  building.  We're  let  in  quite  early,  about  seven,  and  the  opera  doesn't  start  until  eight.&quot;  She  was  interrupted  by  a  middle-aged  couple  who  walked  down  the  line  from  the  entrance.  The  woman  was  asking  as  she  walked,  &quot;Anyone  want  a  ticket?  One  ticket  in  the  orchestra  seats?&quot;  &quot;One  only?&quot;  Al  asked.  He  looked  inquiringly  at  us,  and  we  all  shook  our  heads,  but  a  young  boy  just  ahead  thought  it  over  and  accepted.  He  paid  and  pocketed  his  ticket  and  slipped  away  without  looking  back  at  the  line.  I  had  the  impression  that  he  felt  guilty-  ashamed  of  himself  for  his  weakness.  It  was  possible  to  relieve  one's  stiff  legs  somewhat  by  leaning  against  the  wall,  but  when  I  tried  it  the  cold  of  the  stone  soon  seeped  through  my  clothes,  and  I  decided  to  stand  upright.  Just  ahead  of  us,  a  party  of  three  left  the  line.  We  thought  that  perhaps  they  were  going  for  coffee.  We  stayed  where  we  were.  Soon  a  little  woman  with  a  flower  on  her  hat  came  tripping  along  and  spotted  the  empty  space.  She  de-  manded,  &quot;Aren't  you  standing!&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  we  said.  ''Then  move  up,  move  up!&quot;  she  said,  laughing,  and  went  on  to  the  end  of  the  line.  HALF  an  hour  later,  at  seven-ten,  everyone  started  shuffling  for-  ward,  and  asigh  of  relief  rippled  along  the  line.  Just  inside  the  lobby  door,  we  paid  two  dollars  each  for  standing  room  downstairs,  and  were  given  tickets.  A     man  stood  at  one  side,  looking  closely  at  all  the  males  who  filed  past.  Al  said,  &quot;He's  checking  to  make  sure  we  have  ties  on.  You  can't  come  into  the  Met  without  a  tie.  What  a  tough  way  to  make  a  living!&quot;  We  shuffled  on,  into  a  red  plush  pool  of  blessed  warmth.  There,  as  one  man,  the  standees  walked  with  a  rapid  step  that  was  not  quite  a  run  to  the  choicest  place  allowed  them,  behind  a  barricade  of  double  horizontal  bars  between  the  side  pillars  of  the  auditorium.  The  first-  comers  naturally  got  the  best  places.  The  idea  was  to  plant  yourself  close  to  the  bar,  in  thefront  row  of  standees.  You  could  lean  on  the  bar  and  geta  good  view-though  a  rather  sidewise  one-off  the  stage.  Certain  spots  were  to  be  avoided,  where  pillars  get  in  the  way,  but  my  companions  knew  the  technique  and  found  the  right  place.  Once  estab-  lished  in  your  own  little  area,  you  could  relax.  Everyone  blew  on  frozen  fingers,  then  pulled  off  coats  and  draped  them  over  the  bar.  Even  people  standing  in  the  rear  put  their  coats  on  the  bar,  until  it  was  five  or  six  garments  deep,  pleas-  antly  soft  to  lean  on.  The  standees  of  the  Met  are  honorable  folk,  who  can  be  trusted  not  to  steal  coats.  We  hadn't  room  to  lean  on  both  arms  at  once;  we  stood  sidewise,  stacked  like  spoons  in  a  silver  drawer.  Waiting,  some  of  the  old-timers  took  liberties.  They  sat  down  on  the  carpeted  floor.  Several  even  went  around  the  barrier  and  sat  in  seats,  but  in  the  course  of  time  the  ticket-holding  audience  be-  gan  to  arrive,  drifting  down  the  aisles  in  thick  black  wool  or  platinum  mink,  and  then  attendants  told  the  standees  to  get  back  and  stand  again.  Before  I  real-  ized  it,  eight  o'clock  had  arrived  and  the  Met,  like  a  shopworn  bonbon  box  of  red  velvet  that  has  been  brought  out  for  one  more  Christmas,  was  full.  HE  curtain  rose  on  the  familiar  first  scene  of  &quot;La  Traviata,&quot;  with  ladies  in  great  crinoline  skirts  and  gen-  tiemen  with  thin  legs  crossing  and  re-  crossing  the  stage,  singing.  Albanese  came  on,  and  when  she  began  to  sing,  a  saiver  ran  through  the  packed  standees.  A  woman  behind  [REDACTED]  whimpered  softly.  As  the  aria  ended,  almost  every-  body  around  me  started  to  yell.  Not  many  of  them  actually  shaped  words;  I  heard  only  a  few  &quot;Braval!&quot;s.  Most  just  roared  at  the  tops  of  their  voices,  &quot;Oh!  Ohhhh!&quot;  I  felt  that  even  if  Violetta  had  sung  badly  they  would  have  behaved  in  the  same  way;  they  were  in  love.  My  companions  yelled  as  much  as  anybody  else,  but  when  the  curtain  came  down   on  the  first  act,  Al  was  less  ecstatic  than  I  would  have  expected.  He  shrugged  and  said,  &quot;She's  not  trying  tonight.  She'll  probably  warm  up  later.  Come  on  out  for  a  cigarette.&quot;  I  objected  that  if  we  left  our  places  other  standees  would  take  them,  but  my  companions  assured  me  that  this  never,  never  happened,  and  I  could  see  that  al-  most  everybody  in  the  standing  crowd  was,  in  fact,  going  out.  We  went  into  the  lobby  and  found  an  unoccupied  bench,  on  which  three  ofus  sat  at  a  time,  luxuriously  wriggling  our  toes.  A  tall  man  approached  and  greeted  Al,  who  introduced  him.  &quot;This  is  John,  an  old  friend.  We  always  meet  at  the  Met.  I  believe  that's  how  we  got  acquainted  originally.&quot;  John  said,  &quot;That's  right-on  line,  years  and  years  ago.  What  do  you  think  of  her  tonight?&quot;  &quot;She'd  be  better  with  someone  else  leading  the  orchestra,&quot;  said  Al.  John  nodded.  &quot;Where  are  you  stand-  ing?&quot;  he  asked.  They  discussed  the  geography  of  the  Met,  and  then  the  bell  rang  and  we  went  back.  As  a  dramatic  piece,  &quot;La  Traviata&quot;  has  what  I  consider  a  grave  structural  flaw.  The  climax  comes  in  the  second  act,  when  the  father  of  Alfredo  per-  suades  Violetta  to  give  him  up;  the  lov-  ers'  quarrel  in  the  third  doesn't  reach  such  a  height  of  drama.  In  the  second  act,  however,  Violetta  also  spends  quite  a  stretch  of  time  offstage,  and  during  her  absence  I  noticed  that  Al  had  disap-  peared.  He  came  back  when  Violetta  did.  The  curtain  fell,  and  Gianna  said  to  me,  &quot;Al  doesn't  bother  to  stick  around  except  when  Albanese's  singing.&quot;  Her  voice  was  choked  and  her  face  marked  with  tears.  She  blew  her  reddened  nose  and  said  brightly,  &quot;This  part  always  gets  me.  Don't  you  loveit?&quot;  [REDACTED]  said,  &quot;''They  ought  to  run  the  first  and  second  acts  together,  and  the  third  with  the  fourth.  It's  too  chopped  up  this  way.  How  are  you?  My  legs  are  getting  wobbly.&quot;  Sitting  on  the  lobby  bench  again  re-  stored  her.  John  rejoined  us,  and  agreed  with  Al  that  Albanese  had  done  better  this  time.  'The  bell  rang  and  we  stood  up,  with  a  preparatory  bracing  of  the  muscles,  to  take  our  places  at  the  bar.  Violetta  was  sprightly  and  brave  at  the  party;  Alfredo  made  a  scene.  Violetta  was  interrupted  now  and  then  by  one  of  her  ominous  fits  of  coughing.  The  intermission  following  was  much  the  same  as  the  others.  I  was  not  miserably  uncomfortable,  exactly,  during  the  last  act,  but  I  have  never  known  a  Violetta  to  take  so  long  to  die.  I  am  still  convinced  that  some-  body  slipped  in  an  extra  aria  or  two.  She  trailed  shawls  around  the  stage;  the  maid  would  swaddle  her  in  one  while  she  was  standing  up,  then  she  would  sink  back  in  a  momentary  swoon,  and  when  she  started  up  again,  to  sing  with  refreshed  vigor,  she  left  the  shaw!)  be-  hind.  Now  and  then  she  coughed.  &quot;Here  it  comes,&quot;  I  would  say  to  myself,  but  no--a  moment  later  she  was  off  on  a  new  burst  of  song.  People  came  in  to  help-the  lover,  his  father,  the  doctor.  Everybody  sang.  They  sang  at  great  length.  The  maid  went  down  on  her  knees  by  the  bed  to  cry.  Then  suddenly  it  was  over;  Violetta  reeled  and  crum-  pled  into  Alfredo's  arms,  dead.  &quot;Oh!&quot;  shouted  the  standees.  &quot;Oh!  Oh!&quot;  There  were  emotional  curtain  calls  to  come,  but  we  made  for  the  exit  before  the  rush,  out  into  the  glittering  city,  where  behind  every  door  but  the  Met's  a  person  could  sit  down.  Around  us,  as  we  pushed  our  way,  came  other  stand-  ees.  I  recognized  them  now  as  old  friends-the  woman  in  the  bright-blue  coat,  the  sailor,  the  big  man  who  had  yelled  loudest  of  all-and  they  recog-  n.zed  me.  I  had  made  it.  I  was  in.  