 b"WHEN  John  Lawrence  was  a  new  father,  twenty-odd  years  ago,  he  was  fairly  good  at  mak-  ing  up  stories,  but  somewhere  along  the  line  he  lost  the  knack.  At  forty-six,  he  was  a  full  forty-two  years  older  than  his  son  Charles,  and  his  powers  of  in-  vention  weren't  what  they  had  been  in  the  days  when  he  used  to  hold  Charles's  older  brother  and  sisters  spellbound.  As  a  last  child,  Charles  was,  of  course,  especially  doted  on.  Every  moment  with  him  was  precious  to  John  Lawrence,  who  was  almost  embarrassingly  eager  to  cuta  distinguished  figure  in  his  son's  eyes.  He  certainly  didn't  fail  him  out  of  impatience  or  laziness,  as,  in  his  youth,  he  occasionally  may  have  failed  some  of  the  other  children.  If  he  failed  Charles  in  respect  to  storytelling,  it  was  because  he  simply  couldn't  help  it.  Charles  slept  late,  while  John  Law-  rence  left  the  house  early  and  was  away  all  day.  Charles's  bedtime  was  therefore  Lawrence's  only  opportunity  to  make  a  good  impression  on  him.  Nightly,  Mrs.  Lawrence  scrubbed  Charles  to  a  high  pink  shine  and  got  him  into  pajamas  and  tucked  him  between  the  sheets  and  told  him  a  story  or  two  (ker  powers  never  failed)  and  sang  to  him  and  kissed  him  a  dozen  times  on  ear  and  chin  and  nose  and  foot  and  neck  and  back  of  neck.  His  enormous  eyes  were  heavy  with  sleep.  He  lay  on  the  outermost  verge  of  slipping  off;  all  that  was  required  was  that  his  father  ease  him  along  with  a  rousing  tale,  as  any  ordinary  father  could  and  would.  But  alas!  Poor  Law-  rence  was  no  longer  an  ordinary  father.  For  him,  the  stories  refused  to  flow.  The  gift  had  gone.  For  almost  a  year,  Lawrence  floun-  dered  his  way  through  this  tiny  hell  of  parental  failure.  Night  after  night,  he  would  be  summoned  upstairs  and  Charles  would  pat  the  place  on  his  bed  where  Lawrence  was  to  lie.  &quot;Tell  me  a  story,&quot;  Charles  would  command,  and  Lawrence  would  begin,  &quot;Once  upon  a  time  .  ..&quot;  Instantly,  he  would  feel  his  throat  constricting,  his  tongue  growing  dry,  and  a  terrible  lassitude  sweeping  in  over  him.  Every  start  was  a  false  start;  the  castles  he  conjured  up  proved  all  too  easy  to  storm  and  the  giants  in-  side  them  had  nothing  horrible  to  say.  No  sooner  had  the  portcullises  rattled  up  on  their  great  chains  than  John  Law-  rence  would  yawn  and  ask,  &quot;And  then  what  do  you  suppose  happened?&quot;  A  moment  later,  he  would  lift  himself  on  one  elbow  and  stare  blindly  down  through  the  dark  at  the  ardent  creature " b"beside  him,  hoping  to  discover,  by  means  of  his  silence,  that  he  had  fallen  asleep.  But  Charles  was  never  asleep;  irritation  with  his  father  would  have  goaded  him  into  nervous  wakefulness.  &quot;Go  on!&quot;  he  would  say.  &quot;Can't  you  see  I'm  wait-  ing?&quot;  In  the  end,  it  was  Lawrence  who  would  wind  up  drugged  with  sleep,  while  Charles  would  have  regained  the  energetic  brightness  of  midday.  Mrs.  Lawrence  would  have  to  be  called  on  to  stir  up  her  husband  and  soothe  her  son,  and  she  didn't  know  which  was  the  harder  task.  Surely,  the  Lawrences  told  each  other,  there  must  be  some  solution  to  the  problem  that  hung  so  forbiddingly  over  them,  but  as  things  turned  out  it  was  Charles  and  not  his  parents  who  found  it.  One  night  he  broke  into  his  father's  first  &quot;And  then  ...and  then&quot;  to  ask,  &quot;What  if  I  tell  you  a  story?&quot;  Already  sleepily:  &quot;That  would  be  great.&quot;  &quot;Which  do  you  want  to  hear  about-  Christopher  Robin  or  Robin  Hood?&quot;  &quot;Let's  make  it  Robin  Hood.&quot;  &quot;Well,  once  upon  a  time  in  adeep,  deep  forest,  there  lived  a  man  named  Robin  Hood.  And  he  loved  to  kill  peo-  ple.\xe2\x80\x9d  Suddenly  wakeful,  John  Lawrence  said,  &quot;'That  doesn't  sound  like  the  Robin  Hood  I  know.&quot;  &quot;This  is  a  made-up  story.  One  day  Robin  Hood  took  his  bow  and  arrow  and-zing!  -he  shot  the  sheriff  and  then-zing!'  -he  shot  Friar  Tuck  and  then-zing!  -he  shot  Little  John.&quot;  In  a  voice  blurred  with  pleasure,  Charles  said,  &quot;He  shot  everybody  in  the  whole  forest,  isn't  that  a  good  story?,&quot;  and  at  once  fell  fast  asleep.  The  next  night,  Charles  again  volun-  teered  to  tell  his  father  a  story  and  John  Lawrence  chose  to  hear  about  Christopher  Robin  instead  of  Robin  Hood.  &quot;Well,  once  upon  a  time,  in  a  deep,  deep  forest,  there  lived  a  boy  named  Christopher  Robin,&quot;  Charles  said.  &quot;And  he  loved  to  kill  people.  He  took  a  .22  and  shot  his  nurse-bang!'  -  and  his  bear-bang!-and  his  moth-  er-bang!-and  his  father-bang!&quot;  The  bangs  grew  softer  as  the  story  went  on,  and  at  the  last  bang  Charles  sighed  deeply  and  fell  asleep.  John  Lawrence  kissed  the  unmoving  child  and  ran  downstairs  to  make  a  drink  for  his  wife  and  himself  before  dinner.  &quot;Charles's  piling  up  the  corpses  that  way,&quot;  he  said,  tossing  ice  cubes  into  a  silver  pitcher.  &quot;I  suppose  there's  something  very  much  the  matter  with  him?&quot;  &quot;What  else  can  you  expect,&quot;  asked  " b'his  wife,  &quot;when  a  four-year-old  child  has  to  tell  his  father  bedtime  stories  to  put  himself  to  sleep?&quot;  John  Lawrence  mixed  and  poured  their  drinks.  &quot;In  any  event,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;it  would  be  silly  to  worry  about  it  for  another  five  or  ten  years.&quot;  He  hand-  ed  a  glass  to  his  wife  and  held  up  his  own.  &quot;&quot;To  all  the  dead  in  the  deep,  deep  forest,&quot;  he  said.'