 b"I SAW  him  only  for  a  moment,  and  I  that  was  years  ago.  [REDACTED]  had  been  beaten  by  the  White  Sox.  It  was  a  night  game,  and  when  it  was  over,  as  the  crowd,  including  myself  and  my  friends,  shoved  with  that  suppressed  Occidental  panic  up  the  aisles  toward  the  exit  ramps,  he,  like  the  heavy  pebble  of  gold  that  is  not  washed  from  the  pan,  was  revealed,  sitting  alone,  immobile  and  smiling,  among  the  green  seats.  He  was  an  old  Chinese  man,  solidly  fat,  like  a  Chevrolet  dealer,  and  wore  faded  black  trousers  and  a  white  shirt  whose  sleeves  were  rolled  up.  He  sat  with  one  arm  up  on  the  back  of  the  seat  beside  him  and  smiled  out  toward  the  field,  where  the  ground  crew  was  unfurling  the  tarp  across  the  foreshortened  clay  diamond  and  the  outfield  under  the  lights  looked  as  brilliant  and  flat  as  a  pool-table  felt.  And  it  flashed  upon  me,  asI  glimpsed  this  man  sitting  alone  and  unperturbed  among  the  drained  seats,  that  here  was  the  happy  man,  the  man  of  unceasing  and  effortless  blessing.  I  thought  then  to  write  a  novel,  an  im-  mense  book,  about  him,  recounting  his  every  move,  his  every  meal,  every  play,  pitch,  and  hesitation  of  every  ball  game  he  attended,  the  number  of  every  house  he  passed  as  he  walked  [REDACTED]'s  Indian-  colored  slums,  the  exact  position  and  shape  of  every  cracked  and  flaked  spot  on  the  doorways,  the  precise  scumble  and  glitter  of  every  floriate  and  convoluted  fancy  of  ironwork  that  drifted  by  his  legs,  the  chalk  marks,  the  bricks  (pur-  ple-tinted,  ochre-smeared,  red),  the  constellations  of  lint  and  stain  in  his  tiny  bachelor's  room  (green  walls,  painted  pipes  coughing  with  steam,  telephone  wiring  stapled  along  the  baseboard  ),  the  unique  curl  of  the  smoke  off  his  rice,  the  strokes  of  sound  composing  the  hatch-  ingsof  noise  at  his  back,  every  stifled  cry,  every  sizzle  of  a  defective  neon-sign  con-  nection,  every  distant  plane  and  train,  every  roller-skate  scratch,  everything:  all  set  sequentially  down  with  the  bald  simplicity  of  intrinsic  blessing,  thousands  upon  thousands  of  pages;  ecstatically  uneventful;  divinely  and  defiantly  dull.  But  we  would-be  novelists  have  a  reach  as  shallow  as  our  skins.  We  walk  through  volumes  of  the  unexpressed  and  like  snails  leave  behind  a  faint  thread  excreted  out  of  ourselves.  From  the  dew  of  the  few  flakes  that  melt  on  our  faces,  we  cannot  reconstruct  the  snowstorm.  HE  other  night  I  stumbled  down-  stairs  in  the  dark  and  kicked  my  wife's  sewing  basket  from  the  halfway landing.  Needles,  spools,  buttons,  patches  scattered.  In  gathering  the  things  up,  I  came  upon  my  grandmother's  thimble.  For  a  second  I  did  not  know  what  it  was;  a  stemless  chalice  of  silver  weighing  a  fraction  of  an  ounce  had  come  into  my  fingers.  Then  I  knew,  and  the  valves  of  time  parted,  and  after  an  interval  of  years  my  grandmother  was  upon  me  again,  and  it  seemed  incumbent  upon  me,  necessary  and  holy,  to  tell  how  once  there  had  been  a  woman  who  now  was  no  more;  how  she  had  been  born  and  lived  in  a  world  that  had  ceased  to  exist,  though  its  mementos  were  all  about  us;  how  her  thimble  had  been  fashioned  as  if  in  a  magical  grotto  in  the  black  mountain  of  time,  by  workmen  dwarfed  by  remote,  ness,  in  a  vanished  workshop  now  no  larger  than  the  thimble  itself  and  like  it  soon  doomed,  as  if  by  geological  pres-  sures,  to  be  crushed  out  of  shape.  O  Lord,  bless  these  poor  paragraphs,  that  would  do  in  their  vile  ignorance  Your  work  of  resurrection.  The  thimble  was  her  wedding  pres-  ent  to  me  and  my  wife.  I  was  her  only  grandchild.  At  the  time  I  was  married,  she  was  in  her  late  seventies,  crippled  and  enfeebled.  She  had  fought  a  long  battle  with  Parkinson's  disease;  in  my  earliest  memories  of  her  she  is  touched  with  it.  Her  fingers  and  back  are  bent;  there  is  a  tremble  about  her  as  she  moves  about  through  the  darkodd-  shaped  rooms  of  our  house  in  the  town  where  I  was  born.  But  she  was  strong  then,  and  endowed  with  possessions  and  resources.  When  I  was  married,  she  had  become  so  weak  onlyher  piercing  will  carried  her  up  and  down  the  stairs  of  the  little  country  house  to  which  we  had  moved-the  very  house  where  she  had  lived  as  a  bride.  She  spoke  with  great  difficulty;  she  would  hang  impaled  in  the  middle  of  a  sentence,  at  a  loss  for  the  word,  her  watery  eyes  and  wild  white  hair  transfixed.  She  had  no  possessions.  Except  for  her  clothes  and  her  bed,  the  elegant  silver  thimble-a  gift  from  her  father,  inscribed  with  her  maiden  ini-  tials-was  her  last  property,  and  she  gave  it  to  us.  In  those  days,  each  departure  from  her  1  thought  was  the  last.  When  I  left  to  be  married,  I  did  not  expect  to  see  her  alive  again.  But  when,  at  the  end  of  the  summer,  my  wife  and  I  returned,  it  was  my  grandfather,  and  not  she,  who  had  died.  He  had  died  minutes  before  we  arrived.  His  body  lay  on  the  floor  of  their  bedroom,  his  mouth  a  small  black  tri-  angle  in  a  face  withered  beyond  recogni-  tion.  The  room  was  dimly  lit  by  the  warm  glow  ofa  kerosene  lamp.  I  was  afraid  of  his  body;  it  surprised  me  that  " b"she  did  not  seem  to  be.  I  was  afraid  that  his  body  would  move.  I  called  &quot;Grandpa&quot;  in  an  experimental  whisper,  and  flinched  in  fear  of  an  answer.  My  grandmother  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  dazed,  smiling  slightly  to  greet  me.  She  was  confused,  like  a  crafts-  man  who  looks  up  after  a  long  period  of  con-  centration.  The  sanest  of  old  men,  my  grand-  father  hadon  his  last  day  lost  his  mind.  He  had  bellowed;  she  had  struggled  to  restrain  him.  He  thought  the  bed  was  on  fire  and  sprang  from  it;  she  clung  to  him  and  in  their  fall  to  the  floor  his  heart  stopped.  She  sat,  worn  and  cleansed  by  her  strug-  gle,  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  with  two  hollows.  She  was  a  little  wom-  an  informed  by  a  dis-  proportionate  strength.  Carrying  her  husband  through  his  death  had  been  her  last  great  effort.  From  that  moment  on,  her  will  tried  to  ar-  range  itself  for  defeat,  and  its  power  of  resistance  became  an  inconvenience  to  her.  I  hugged  her  quickly,  afraid  of  even  her  body,  which  had  so  lately  em-  braced  the  one  on  the  floor.  My  moth-  er,  behind  me,  asked  her  if  she  wanted  to  come  downstairs  with  the  others.  My  grandmother  refused,  saying,  &quot;A  little  while  [REDACTED];  and  making  a  trem-  ulous  impatient  motion  of  explanation  or  dismissal.  he  knew,  perhaps,  what  I  was  shocked  to  discover  when,  descending  the  steps  with  trembling  knees,  and  tingling  all  over  as  if  from  a  bath,  I  went  downstairs:  that  we  have  no  ges-  tures  adequate  to  answer  the  imperious  gestures  of  nature.  Among  deaf  moun-  tains  human  life  pursues  a  comic  low  road.  The  sherry  that  my  mother  had  purchased  toward.  our  arrival  was  served;the  wait  for  the  undertaker  be-  came  overlaid  with  a  subdued  version  of  the  party  she  had  meant  to  have.  My  mother,  tautly  calm,  as  if  at  the  center  of  contradictory  tensions,  made  one  of  her  witticisms;  my  father's  telephone  conversation  with  our  Lutheran  minis-  ter  was  as  bewildered  and  bewildering  as  his  conversations  with  this  young  man  always  were.  The  minister  came  with  a  drawn  white  face  that  cracked  inrelief  at  find-  ing  laughter  in  the  house.  At  church  softball  he  had  broken  his  ankle  slid-  ing  into  second  base,  and  limped  still.  His  prayers  seemed  to  chip  pieces  from  our  hearts  and  float  them  away.  The  undertaker's  men,  droll  wooden  figures  like  the  hangmen  of  old,  came  and  trundled  the  body  out  the  door.  Thus,  as  if  through  a  series  of  pressure  locks,  we  were  rescued  from  the  tunnel  of  death.  My  grandmother  did  not  attend  the  funeral.  She  was  wise,  for  the  Masons  made  it  ridiculous  with  their  occult  pre-  sumption.  My  grandmother,  whose  love  of  activity  had  been  intense,  stayed  in-  side  the  house,  and  more  and  more  in  bed.  When  my  wife  and  I  went  away  again-I  had  a  year  of  college  left-I  said  goodbye  to  her  in  my  heart.  But  when  we  returned  at  Christmas,  she  was  alive,  and  she  was  alivein  June,  though  by  now  completely  bedridden.  Blindly  her  will  gave  battle.  My  grandfather  had  been  a  vigorous  booster  of  exerciseas  the  key  to  longevity.  Obeying,  perhaps,  an  echo  of  her  hus-  band's  voice,  my  grandmother  would  ask  to  be  lifted  byher  hands  into  a  sit-  ting  position,  and  then  lowered,  and  lifted  again,  until  the  person  doing  it  for  her  lost  patience  and  in  exasperation   quit.  She  liked  company,  though  al-  most  all  power  of  speech  had  forsaken  her.  &quot;Up.  Up,&quot;  that  fierce  and  plain-  tive  request,  was  all  I  could  under-  stand.  We  knew  that  the  discase  touched  only  her  tongue;  that  in  that  wordless,  glaring  head  the  same  alert  and  appe-  titive  mind  lived.  But  a  mind  shorn  of  agency  ceases  to  exist  in  our  world,  and  we  would  speak  together  in  her  room  as  if  it  were  empty.  Certain,  now,  that  this  was  my  lasttime  with  her-my  wife  and  I  were  going  to  England  for  a  year-I  spent  some  summer  afternoons  in  my  grandmother's  room.  I  knew  she  could  hear,  but  we  had  never  spoken  much  to  each  other,  so  I  would  read  or  write  in  silence.  I  remember  sitting  in  the  rocking  chair  at  the  foot  of  the  bed,  near  the  spot  where  my  grandfather's  body  had  lain  that  night  in  warm  lamp-  light,  and  writing,  while  the  sun  streamed  in  through  the  geraniums  on  the  window  sill,  a  piece  of  light  verse  about  what  I  imagined  the  sea  voyage  I  was  soon  to  take  would  be  like.  That  line  is  the  horizon  line.  The  blue  above  it  is  divine.  The  blue  below  it  is  marine.  Sometimes  the  blue  below  is  green.  Reading  this  stanza  now,  I  see,  as  if  over  the  edge  of  the  paper,  my  grand-  mother's  nostrils  as  her  head  was  sunk  " b"foreshortened  in  the  pillow.  'The  with-  ering  force  pressed  unevenly  on  her  body,  twisted  it  out  of  symmetry;  one  nostril  was  squeezed  into  teardrop-  shape,  and  the  other  was  a  round  black  hole  through  which  she  seemed  to  seize  the  air.  The  whole  delicate  frame  of  her  existence  seemed  suspended  from  this  final  hungry  aperture,  the  size  of  a  dime,  through  which  her  life  was  sus-  tained.  In  England  I  hesitated  to  tear  open  each  letter  from  bome,  for  fear  it  would  contain  the  news  of  her  death.  But,  as  if  preserved  in  the  unreality  of  those  days  that  passed  without  weight  on  a  remote  continent  whose  afternoon  was  our  morning  and  whose  morning  was  our  night,she  survived,  and  was  there  when  we  returned.  We  had  had  a  baby  girl.  We  put  the  child,  too  young  to  creep,  on  my  grandmother's  bed  beside  the  hump  of  her  legs,  so  that  for  an  in-  terval  four  generations  were  gathered  in  one  room,  and  without  moving  her  head  my  grandmother  could  see  her  entire  progeny:  my  mother,  myself,  and  my  daughter.  At  her  funeral,  my  child,  by  then  alive  to  things  around  her,  smiled  and  from  my  arms  stretched  her  hand  seemingly  in  recognition  toward  the  drained  and  painted  body  in  the  casket.  My  grandmother  had  died,  finally,  when  I  was  far  away,  in  [REDACTED].  I  was  at  a  party;  it  was  a  Saturday  night.  I  went  to  the  phone  with  a  cigarette  in  my  hand  and  Cointreau  on  my  breath;  my  mother,  her  voice  miniature  with  dis-  tance,  began  the  conversation  with  the  two  words,  &quot;Grammy  went.&quot;  'They  had  found  her  dead  in  the  morning  and  considerately  not  called  me  until  now.  -It  was,  of  course,  a  blessing;  my  mother's  health  had  been  nearly  broken  by  nursing  her.  Now  we  were  all  re-  leased.  I  returned  to  the  party  and  told  my  news,  which  was  received  respect-  fully;  it  was  a  small  party,  of  friends.  But  gaiety  cannot  be  suppressed  a  whole  evening,  and  when  it  revived  I  suppose  I  joined  it.  I  vowed,  groping  for  some  fitness,  for  the  commensurate  gesture,  to  go  toa  Lutheran  church  the  next  morning.  But  when  Sunday  morning  came,  I  slept  late,  and  the  vow  seemed  a  troublesome  and  embarrassing  whim.  I  did  not  go.  I  did  not  go.  This  refusal  seems  to  be  a  face  at  that  party  and  I  am  about  to  quarrel  with  it,  but  other  memories  come  and  touch  my  elbow  and  lead  me  away.  five  of  us  in  that  kerosene-lit  house,  on  Friday  and  Saturday  nights,  at  an  hour  when  in  the  spring  and  sum-  mer  there  was  still  abundant  light  in  the  air,  I  would  set  out  in  my  father's  car  for  town,  where  my  friends  lived.  I  had,  by  moving  ten  miles  away,  at  last  ac-  quired  friends:  an  illustration  of  that  strange  law  whereby,  like  Orpheus  leading  Eurydice,  we  achieve  our  de-  sire  by  turning  our  back  on  it.  I  had  even  gained  a  girl,  so  that  the  vibrations  were  as  sexual  as  social  that  made  me  jangle  with  anticipation  as  I  clowned  in  front  of  the  mirror  in  our  kitchen,  shaving  from  a  basin  of  stove-heated  water,  combing  my  hair  with  a  drip-  ping  comb,  adjusting  my  reflection  in  the  mirror  until  I  had  achieved  just  that  electric  angle  from  which  my  face  seemed  beautiful  and  everlastingly,  by  the  very  volumes  of  air  and  sky  and  grass  that  lay  mutely  banked  about  our  home,  beloved.  My  grandmother  would  hover  near  me,  watching  fear-  fully,  as  she  had  when  I  was  a  child,  afraid  that  I  would  fall  from  a  tree.  Delirious,  humming,  I  wouldswoop  and  lift  her  into  the  tree,  lift  her  like  a  child,  crooking  one  arm  under  her  knees  and  cupping  the  other  behind  her  back.  Exultant  in  my  height,  my  strength,  I  would  lift  that  frail  brittle  " b"body  weighing  perhaps  a  hundred  pounds  and  twirl  with  it  in  my  arms  while  the  rest  of  the  family  watched  with  startled  smiles  of  alarm.  Had  I  stumbled,  or  dropped  her,  I  might  have  broken  her  back,  but  my  joy  always  proved  a  secure  cra-  dle.  And  whatever  irony  was  in  the  im-  pulse,  whatever  implic-  it  contrast  between  this  ancient  husk,  scarcely  female,  and  the  pliant,  warm  girl  I  would  embrace  before  the  eve-  ning  was  done,  di-  rect  delight  flooded  away:  I  was  carrying  her  who  had  carried  me,  I  was  giving  my  past  a  dance,  I  had  lift-  ed  the  anxious  care-  taker  of  my  childhood  from  the  floor,  I  was  bringing  her  with  my  boldness  to  the  edge  of  danger,  from  which  she  had  always  sought  to  guard  me.  There  is  a  photo-  graph  of  my  grandmother  and  me  at  the  side  of  the  first  house.  There  is  snow  on  the  ground.  The  brick  walk  has  been  cleared.  I  am  in  a  snowsuit,  and  its  bulk  makes  my  walking  doubly  clum-  sy.  We  are  both  ofus  dark  against  the  snow  and  the  white  brick  wall  of  the  house.  I  am  unsteady;  my  grandmoth-  er's  black  shape  bends  over  me  with  a  predatory  solicitude,  holding  one  of  my  hands  in  a  hand  that  has  already  be-  come,  under  the  metamorphosis  of  her  disease,  a  little  clawlike.  She  was  wor-  ried  that  I  would  fall,  that  I  would  not  eat  enough,  that  the  bigger  boys  of  the  neighborhood  would  harm  me,  that  a  cold  would  strangle  me;  and  her  fears  were  not  foolish.  There  was  danger  in  that  kind  house.  Tigers  of  temper  lurked  beneath  the  furniture,  and  shadows  of  despair  followed  my  father  to  the  door  and  flattened  them-  selves  against  the  windows  as  he  walked  down  the  shaded  street  alone.  I  remember  watching  my  mother  iron  in  the  dining  room.  Suddenly  her  hand  jumps  to  her  jaw;  her  face  goes  white;  shock  unfocusses  her  eyes.  Her  teeth  had  givenhera  twinge  that  started  tears  flowing  down  her  cheeks  as  she  resumed  ironing.  I  must  have  cried  out,  for  she  smiled  at  my  face.  I  told  her  she  must  go  to  the  dentist,  and  returned  to  my  coloring  book.  The  comforting  aroma  of  heated  cloth  folded  over  the  glimpsed  spark  of  pain.  Now  around  that  cold  spark,  isolated  in  memory,  the  air  of  that  house  crystallizes:  our  neglected  teeth,  our  poor  and  starchy  diet,  our  worn  floors,  our  musty  and  haunted  halls.  T  sit  on  the  carpet-which  under  the  dining  table  had  retained  its  fresh  nap  and  seemed  to  me  jungle-grass-  and  my  mother  stands  at  the  board,  and  around  us,  like  hieroglyphs  haloing  the  rigid  figures  of  a  tomb  mural,  arethe  simpleshapes  of  the  other  three:  my  grandfather  a  pyramid  sitting  rereading  the  newspaper  in  the  dwindling  light  of  the  front  parlor,  my  father  a  forked  stick  striding  somewhere  in  the  town,  my  grandmother,  above  us  in  her  room  or  behind  us  in  the  kitchen,  a  crescent  bent  into  some  chore.  As  long  as  her  body  carried  her,  she  worked.  The  night  we  moved,  my  mother  and  I  came  through  the  wet  black  grass  around  the  edge  of  the  sandstone  farm-  house  and  saw,  framed  in  the  doorway,  close  to  us  yet  far  away,  like  a  woman  in  a  Vermeer,  my  grandmother  reach-  ing  up  with  a  trembling  match  to  touch  the  wick  of  a  lamp  on  the  high  kitchen  mantel.  My  mother's  voice,  in  recalling  that  moment  to  me  years  later,  broke  as  she  added,  &quot;She  was  always  doing  things   like  that.&quot;  Like  lighting  a  lamp.  Always  lighting  a  lamp.  And  through  that  &quot;always&quot;  I  fall  into  the  volume  of  time  that  preceded  my  birth,  where  my  grandmother  is  a  fig-  ment  of  history  made  deceptively  res-  onant  by  her  persistence  into  my  days.  She  was  the  youngest  of  a  dozen  chil-  dren,  all  of  whom,  remarkably  in  that  mortal  era,  lived  to  maturity.  She  was  the  baby,  her  father's  favorite  and  her  brothers'  darling.  Toward  the  end  of  her  life,  when  hallucinations  began  to  walk  through  the  walls  of  her  room  and  stand  quietly  in  the  corners,  her  broth-  ers,  all  of  whom  she  had  long  outlived,  became  again  vivid  to  her.  I  became  one  of  them;  she  would  ask  for  me  with  Pete's  name.  He  was  her  youngest  brother,  her  own  favorite.  His  brown  photograph,  mounted  on  stiff  cardboard  stamped  with  gold  scrolls,  had  been  set  up  on  the  table  beside  her  bed.  He  had  a  hooked  nose  and  the  dandified  hauteur  of  a  rural  buck  braced  to  have  his  pic-  ture  taken.  Like  the  eyes  of  an  icon,  his  snapping  black  eyes-alone  in  the  photograph  unfaded--overlooked  her  deathbed.  I  believe  her  first  language  was  Penn-  sylvania  German.  As  some  parents  speak  secrets  in  French  in  front  of  the  children,  my  grandparents  used  this  " b"dialect  to  shelter  my  mother,  who  consequently  resented  the  language.  Only  two  words  have  descended  to  me-phonetically  spelled,  &quot;ferhoodled&quot;  and  &quot;dopick,&quot;  meaning  &quot;confused&quot;  and  &quot;lethargic.&quot;  They  were  frequent  words  with  my  grandmother;  it  is  the  way  other  people  must  have  looked  to  her.  Shaped  like  a  sickle,  her  life  whipped  through  grasses  of  confusion  and  leth-  argy  that  in  a  summer  month  grew  up  again  as  tall  as  before.  As  with  the  blessed  man  of  [REDACTED],  I  should  here  provide  a  catalogue  of  her  existence:  her  marriage  to  a  man  ten  years  older,  the  torment  of  her  one  childbirth,  the  eddies  of  fortune  that  contained  her  constant  labor.  The  fields,  the  hired  men,  the  horses,  the  stonesof  the  barn  and  the  fireplace,  the  three-mile  inns  on  the  road  to  market.  The  birth  of  my  mother:  the  lamplight,  the  simmering  water,  the  buggy  clattering  for  the  jesting  doctor,  fear  like  a  transparent  paste  on  the  ceiling,  the  hours  of  pain  piled  higher  and  higher-my  grandmother  was  a  little  woman,  and  the  baby  was  large.  Her  size  at  the  outset  my  mother  felt  as  an  insult  ineradicably  delivered  to  the  woman  who  bore  her,  the  first  of  a  thousand  painful  awkwardnesses.  But  to  me,  from  my  remote  perspective,  in  which  fable,  memory,  and  blood  blend,  the  point  of  the  story  is  the  survival.  Both  survived  the  ordeal.  And  in  the  end  all  my  impressions  of  my  grand-  mother's  life  turn  on  the  thin  point  of  her  piercing  survival.  When  we  returned  to  the  farm  where  my  mother  had  been  born,  my  grandmother  insisted  on  fetching  the  water  from  the  spring.  In  spite  of  all  our  warnings  she  would  sneak  off  with  the  bucket  and  on  her  unsteady  legs  tote  it  back  up  the  slope  of  grass,  brimful,  strangely  little  of  it  spilled.  One  summer  day  my  mother  and  I  were  standing  at  the  side  of  the  house.  The  air  was  vibrat-  ing  with  the  noises  of  nature,  the  press-  ing  tremolo  of  insects  and  birds.  Sudden-  ly  my  mother's  face,  as  if  from  a  twinge  of  her  teeth,  went  rapt  and  white:  &quot;Listen!&quot;  Before  I  could  listen  she  ran  down  the  lawn  toward  the  spring  and  there  we  found  my  grandmother  doubled  up  over  the  water,  hanging,  by  the  pressure  of  one  shoulder,  to  the  sandstone  wall  that  cupped  the  spring  on  three  sides.  'The  weight  of  the  buck-  et  had  pulled  her  forward;  she  had  thrown  herself  sideways  and,  unable  to  move,  had  held  herself  from  drowning  by  sheer  adhesion  of  will  until  her  faint,  birdlike  whimper  for  help  flew  to  the  attuned  ears  of  her  child.  Death  had  to  take  her  while  she  slept.  She  never  to  my  knowledge  I.  went  outside  the  boundaries  of  [REDACTED].  She  never  saw  a  movie;  I  never  saw  her  read.  She  lived  in  our  nation  as  a  fish  lives  in  the  deep  sea.  One  night,  when  she  thought-  wrongly-that  she  was  dying,  I  heard  her  ask,  &quot;Will  I  bea  little  debil?&quot;  I  had  never  be-  fore  heard  her  curiosity  range  so  far.  When  presented  with  disagreeable  information,  she  would  look  stunned,  then  with  a  glimmer  of  a  smile  say  slowly,  &quot;Ach,  I  guess  not.&quot;  Wishing  the  obstacle  away  as  easily  as  a  child.  Of  course,  I  came  upon  her  late,  with  a  child's  un-  knowing  way  of  seeing.  No  doubt  the  innocence  of  my  vision  of  her  is  my  own  in-  nocence,  her  ignorance  mine.  I  am  told  that  in  her  day  she  was  sophisticated  and  formi-  dable.  She  liked  fine  clothes,  good  food,  nice  things.  She  was  one  of  the  first  women  in  the  region  to  drive  a  car.  This  automobile,  an  Overland,  spinning  down  the  orange  dirt  roads  of  rural  valleys  now  filled  with  ranch  houses  and  [REDACTED]  commuters,  recedes  into  an  imaginary  landscape  hiding  a  woman  who  is  not  my  grandmother  at  all.  The  initials  were  K.Z.K.  Picking  up  that  thimble,  with  its  crown  of  stip-  ples  like  a  miniature  honeycomb,  and  its  decorative  rim  of  five-petalled  flow-  ers  tapped  into  the  silver,  I  felt  at  my  back  that  night  a  steep  wave  about  to  break  over  the  world  and  bury  us  and  all  our  trinkets  of  survival  fathoms  down.  For  I  feel  that  the  world  is  end-  ing,  that  the  mounting  mass  of  people  will  soon  make  a  blackness  in  which  the  glint  of  this  silver  will  be  obliterated;  it  is  this  imminent  catastrophe  that  makes  it  imperative  for  me  to  cry  now,  in  the  last  second  when  the  cry  will  have  meaning,  that  once  there  was  a  woman  whom  one  of  the  continents  in  one  of  its  square  miles  caused  to  exist.  That  the  land  which  cast  her  up  was  harsher,  more  sparsely  exploited,  more  fertile  than  it  is  now.  That  she  was  unique;  that  she  came  toward  the  end  of  the  time  when  uniqueness  was  possible.  Al-  ready  identical  faces  throng  the  street.  She  was  projected  onto  my  own  days  by  her  willed  survival;  Ilived  with  her  and  she  loved  me  and  I  did  not  understand  her,  I  did  not  care  to.  She  is  gone  now  because  we  deserted  her;  the  thimble  seems  a  keepsake  pressed  into  my  hand  by  a  forsaken  woman  as  in  the  company     of  others  I  launched  out  from  an  island  into  a  wilderness.  UCH  simplicities  bring  me  to  the  third  of  my  unwritten  stories.  It  is  a  simple  story,  a  story  of  life  stripped  of  the  progenitive  illusion,  perfected  out  of  history:  the  slam  of  a  door  in  an  empty  house.  &quot;Let  us  imagine,&quot;  Pascal  invites  us,  &quot;a  number  of  men  in  chains,  and  all  condemned  to  death.  ...&quot;  Fanning  Island  is  a  bleak  [REDACTED]  island  near  the  equator.  It  now  supports  a  relay  station  for  the  transoceanic  tele-  graph.  When  Captain  Fanning  discov-  ered  it,  it  was  uninhabited,  but  bore  signs  of  habitation:  a  rectangular  foundation  of  coral  blocks,  a  basalt  adze,  some  bone  fishhooks,  a  few  raised  graves  contain-  ing  drilled  porpoise  teeth  and  human  bones.  All  these  things  were  old.  Understand  that  the  Polynesian  is-  lands  were  populated  accidentally,  as  seed  in  nature  is  sown.  On  the  wide  waste  of  ocean  many  canoes  and  praus  were  blown  astray;  short  planned  voy-  ages  were  hazardous  and  extended  navi-  gation  impossible.  Some  drifted  to  other  populated  islands  and  thorns  there  swallowed  them.  Some  starved  on  the  barren  ground  of  the  [REDACTED];  some  fell  southward  into  antarctic  ice.  Some  washed  up  on  atolls  with  only  the  rats  in  the  canoes  still  alive.  A  few-a  very  few;  Nature  with  her  mountain  of  time  plays  a  spendthrift  game-survived  to  reach  an  uninhabited  but  inhabitable  island.  When  the  company  of  survivors  included  a  biologically  useful  woman,  population  took  place.  'The  souls  shed  by  one  nation  became  the  seeds  of  an-  " b"other.  No  return  was  possible.  The  stars  are  a  far  weaker  guide  than  many  theorists  believe.  Accident,  here  as  elsewhere,  is  the  generating  agency  be-  neath  the  seemingly  achieved  surface  of  things.  What  must  have  happened  is  this.  A  company  of  men  in  a  large  canoe,  sail-  ing  among  the  Marquesas,  were  blown  away.  Eventually  they  were  cast  up  on  Fanning  Island.  They  built  a  house,  fished,  and  lived.  No  women  were  among  them,  so  their  numbers  could  only  diminish.  The  youngest  among  them  may  have  lived  for  fifty  years.  The  bones  of  this  man  whom  no  one  re-  mained  to  bury  moldered  away  and  van-  ished.  No  sign  of  disaster  is  found  to  explain  the  disappearance  of  the  men.  None  is  needed.  Qu'on  simagine  un  nombre  dhommes  dans  les  chaines,  et  tous  condamn\xc3\xa9s  &amp;  la  mort,  dont  les  uns  \xc3\xa9tant  chaque  jour  \xc3\xa9gorg\xc3\xa9s  &amp;  la  vue  des  autres,  ceux  qui  restent  vorent  leur  propre  con-  dition  dans  celle  de  leurs  semblables,  et,  se  regardant  les  uns  etles  autres  avec  douleur  et  sans  esp\xc3\xa9rance,  attendent  &amp;  leur  tour.  C'est  Pimage  de  la  condition  des  hommes.  -We  came  fromHiva  Oa,  and  car-  ried  pigs  and  messages  for  Nukuhiva,  below  the  horizon.  My  father  was  chief.  The  tabu  was  strong,  and  we  carried  no  women  in  the  prau.  The  wind  dropped,  and  returned  from  another  quarter.  The  sea  grew  too  smooth,  and  lustrous  like  the  inside  of  a  coconut;  the  southern  sky  merged  with  the  sea.  In  the  storm  there  were  lost  many  pigs  and  an  old  man  who  had  seen  Nukuhiva  as  a  boy.  When  the  sky  cleared,  it  was  night,  and  the  stars  were  scrambled.  At  dawn  the  horizon  all  around  us  was  un-  broken;  we  strained  to  see  when  the  great  waves  lifted  us  up  high.  We  sang  to  the  sun,  and  sleptin  the  shade  of  the  bodies  of  the  wakeful.  The  storm  had  torn  away  the  hut.  The  cowards  in-  fected  us.  But  the  singing  gave  me  com-  fort,  and  my  father's  presence  sheltered  me.  He  was  the  tallest  and  bravest,  yet  was  among  those  first  to  yield  up  life.  We  devoured  his  body;  his  strength  passed  into  me,  though  I  was  young.  I  long  felt  the  island  approaching.  It  gave  the  men  hope  and  gaiety  to  touch  me.  The  island  first  seemed  a  cloud;  but  Marheyo  saw  birds.  Our  sails  were  gone,  and  we  paddled  with  hands  that  had  lost  shape.  Our  skin  shredded  in  the  water.  Our  throats  had  become  stuck;  we  were  silent.  Two  days  and  a  night  it  took  us  to  reach  the  island;  at  the  second  dawn  its  arms  were  reaching  for  us.  We  saw  green  bush  and  coconut  palms  above  the  rock.  Before  our  strengths  were  fully  revived,  Karnoo-  noo  and  I  fought.  Though  he  had  been  a  man  feared  in  the  village,  I  won,  and  killed  him,  grieving.  We  took  thought  to  shelter.  We  built  a  house  of  stone,  carving  the  soft  rock,  like  ash,  with  our  axes.  We  harvested  fruit  and  fish,  and  learned  to  make  tapa  from  the  strange  bark.  We  buried  our  dead.  We  carved  a  god  from  a  log  of  the  prau.  We  made  women  of  each  other.  I  was  the  youngest;  I  gave  myself  to  those  men  whom  I  desired,  the  best-natured.  It  was  not  always  the  old  who  died.  Demons  of  apathy  seized  Mehivi,  and  33  Kory-Kory,  who  had  tended  the  god.  The  horizon  seemed  always  about  to  speak  tous;  for  what  had  we  been  brought  here?  We  lived,  and  though  we  saw  the  others  turn  cold,  and  the  jaws  sink,  and  the  body  turn  stiff  and  light  like  a  child's  canoe,  those  who  re-  mained  were  not  sure  that  they  would  die.  We  buried  them  with  the  amulets  we  brought  from  the  village.  Now  I  am  the  last.  I  buried  Marheyo,  the  three-fingered,  a  season  ago,  and  at  night  he  speaks  to  me.  HIS  the  outline;  but  it  would  be  the  days,  the  evocation  of  the  days  ...  the  green  days.  'The  tasks,  the  grass,  the  weather,  the  shades  of  sea  and  air.  Just  as  a  piece  ofturf  torn  from  a  meadow  becomes  a  gloria  when  drawn  by  Diirer.  Details.  Details  are  the  giant's  fingers.  He  seizes  the  stick  and  strips  the  bark  and  shows,  burning  beneath,  the  moist  white  wood  of  joy.  For  I  thought  that  this  story,  fully  told,  would  become  without  my  willing  it  a  happy  story,  a  story  full  of  joy;  had  my  powers  been  greater,  we  would  know.  As  it  is,  you,  like  me,  must  take  it  on  faith. "