  OTHER  PEOPLES  HOUSES  ALBERT  Y  foster  parents  in  Liverpool  M  must  have  discovered  the  com-  fort  of  having  their  house  to  themselves  as  soon  as  I  had  gone  away  to  visit  my  real  parents.  Mrs.  Levine  (her  name,  like  the  other  names  and  places  in  my  story,  is  made  up)  wrote  to  my  mother  over  the  weekend,  say-  ing  wouldn't  it  be  nicer  for  my  moth-  er  to  have  me  living  permanently  near  her  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED].  Besides,  said  Mrs.  Levine,  her  cousin  was  ill.  She  herself  was  feeling  poorly.  And  I  was  always  making  remarks  about  the  Hebrew  school  they  sent  me  to.  It  was  a  perfectly  nice  school  and  it  had  been  good  enough  for  her  and  her  six  daughters,  and  I  had  made  remarks.  &quot;I  never,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  never  made  re-  marks.&quot;  But  I  probably  had.  The  musty,  noisy  little  school  in  what  seemed  like  the  Liverpool  ghetto  had  looked  and  felt  and  smelled  strange  to  me,  who  had  been  brought  up  in  the  hygienic  and  punctual  Germanic  system  of  the  Aus-  trian  state  schools,  and  when  at  the  end  of  the  first  term  my  report  card  read  «'T  op  of  the  form,&quot;  I  had  felt  superior.  &quot;What  are  we  going  to  do  now?&quot;  said  my  distraught  mother.  My  parents  were  working  as  cook  and  butler  in  the  village  of  Illford,  in  the  house  of  a  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Willoughby,  who  had  brought  them  to  [REDACTED]  on  a  domestic-service  visa  (the  only  kind  readily  available  to  Hitler  refugees  in  1939),  and  Mrs.  Willoughby  had  in-  vited  me  to  spend  two  weeks  in  Kent  on  a  visit  with  my  parents.  &quot;She'll  have  to  leave  on  Thursday,&quot;  said  my  moth-  er,  &quot;and  where  will  she  go  to  live  now  that  the  Levines  don't  want  her  back?&quot;  My  mother  carried  Mrs.  Levine's  letter  into  the  draw-  ing  room  to  show  Mrs.  Wil-  loughby.  Mrs.  Willoughby  called  the  vicar,  who  put  her  in  touch  with  the  committee  that  the  ladies  from  his  church  were  organizing  to  help  Jewish  refugees  from  Austria  and  [REDACTED],  and  next  day  the  chair-  man  of  the  committee  called;  she  had  found  a  home  for  me  with  a  family  called  Hooper  in  the  nearby  town  of  Mellbridge.  On  Thursday,  which  was  my  par-  ents'  afternoon  off,  my  mother  took  me  to  my  new  foster  family.  The  Hoopers  lived  in  an  orange  brick     street  of  identical  semi-detached  houses  with  narrow  alleys  between  them  lead-  ing  to  the  back  doors.  In  front  of  each  half  house  there  was  a  square  yard  of  grass  surrounded  by  a  neat  privet  hedge,  with  a  little  iron  gate  and  a  tidy  flagstone  path  leading  to  three  white  steps  and  up  to  the  front  door.  The  Hoopers'  front  door,  during  the  time  I  lived  there,  was  never  used  except  that  first  Thurs-  day  afternoon,  for  my  mother  and  me.  Mrs.  Hooper  opened  to  us.  She  was  a  large,  soft  woman  with  fine  black  eyes.  She  must  have  been  thirty-five  or  six,  a  few  years  older  than  my  mother.  Mrs.  Hooper's  upper  lip  was  shrunken  be-  cause  of  her  missing  teeth.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  she  said,.  &quot;How  do  you  do.  I'm  very  glad  t-t-t-t-t...&quot;  Time  stood  suspended.  We  waited  on  the  front  steps  watching  Mrs.  Hooper's  tongue  twist  against  her  palate,  her  whole  face  working.  &quot;.  ..  t-to  meet  you.&quot;  We  followed  her  into  the  little  front  parlor,  which  had  the  chill  air  of  a  room  that  is  not  lived  in.  It  had  the  bluest  wallpaper  I  had  ever  seen.  Mrs.  Hooper  made  my  mother  and  me  sit  on  the  matching  settee  and  armchair.  She  herself  perched  on  the  piano  stool,  smiling  shyly  at  us  while  she  tried  to  wrap  her  left  hand  into  a  corner  of  her  apron.  I  looked  all  around.  In  the  narrow  bow  of  the  window  stood  a  closed  writing  desk  with  an  ornately  framed  enlarged  snapshot  of  two  little  girls  in  their  eyes  against  the  sun.  My  mother  was  looking  yearningly  at  the  piano.  It  was  an  upright,  and  had  a  lace  scarf  on  top  and  a  vase  of  crépe-paper  roses.  My  mother  asked  Mrs.  Hooper  if  she  played  the  piano.  Mrs.  Hooper  said  as  a  girl  she  used  she  could  play.  My  mother  said  she  hadn't  played  for  a  year,  since  the  Nazis  took  her  Bliithner  away.  My  mother  stood  up  and  touched  the  keys  and  played  a  |  chord.  &quot;Oh,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hooper.  play  ever  so  beautiful.&quot;  She  made  my  mother  sit  down  at  the  piano.  &quot;You're  from  [REDACTED],  aren't  you.  Can  you  play  a  waltz?&quot;  My  mother  shook  her  head.  very  well.&quot;  &quot;Or  can  you  play  some  Chopin.  You       know,  the  one  that  goes  Tra  la  la,  t-t-ra  lalalalala  t-t-t-t-ra  la  la  ...&quot;  My  mother  played  the  Polonaise  in  A  Major  for  Mrs.  Hooper.  The  piano  tinkled  like  an  old  barroom  piano,  and  Mrs.  Hooper  cried.  She  said  the  music  wasn't  half  beautiful.  After  that,  Mrs.  Hooper  took  us  out  into  the  living  room-  kitchen,  which  led  into  the  scullery,  which  gave  onto  the  back  yard,  where  a  dog  was  scratching  at  the  door.  The  table  in  the  kitchen  was  laid  for  tea  for  six.  On  one  wall  there  was  a  tall  dresser  with  dishes,  and  a  grate  with  a  fire  in  the  other.  The  table  was  square,  and  so  big  it  left  a  mere  margin  for  chairs  all  around  it.  Mrs.  Hooper  brought  us  tea  and  scones  and  bowls  of  tangerine  sections  out  of  a  tin.  The  dog  barked.  Footsteps  were  coming  up  the  alley.  A  girl  came  in.  Her  name  was  Gwenda.  She  was  thirteen-two  years  older  than  I.  She  had  a  clever,  delicate,  undernourished  face  and  wore  the  ugly  black  pleated  tunic  and  white  blouse  and  black  velours  hat  of  the  English  schoolgirl.  She  sat  down  with  us.  She  studied  me  across  the  table.  I  looked  steadily  back.  Mrs.  Hooper  and  my  mother  made  up  the  conversation  between  them.  My  mother  was  thanking  Mrs.  Hooper  for  giving  me  a  home.  Mrs.  Hooper  kept  saying  she  was  sorry  Mr.  Hooper  would  not  be  back  in  time  to  meet  my  mother.  And  then  the  dog  barked  again.  &quot;Albert?&quot;  said  Gwenda,  and  looked  at  Mrs.  Hooper,  who  had  stopped  with  the  cup  halfway  to  her  lips.  The  scullery  door  banged,  the  kitch-  en  door  was  thrown  open,  and  in  it  stood  for  the  space  of  a  second  a  blond  fellow  with  a  spotty  face.  I  thought  he  was  a  man.  He  must  havebeen  seven-  teen  or  eighteen.  He  stared  at  the  stran-  gers  at  the  table  and  backed  out  again  and  shut  the  door.  Mrs.  Hooper  excused  herself  and  went  out  to  him,  and  presently  she  came  back  and  said  to  Gwenda,  &quot;You  go  out  and  talk  to  him.&quot;  She  said  to  us,  &quot;You'll  have  to  excuse  Albert;  he  says  he's  too  mucky  from  work  to  come  in.  He's  shy,  see,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;but  he's  a  good  boy.  He's  got  ever  such  a  nice  job  down  at  the  gasworks,  and  he  makes  good  money.&quot;  She  seemed  at  the  same  time  to  be  trying  to  hear  and  trying  to  cover  up  the  fierce  whispering  and  hissing  out  in  the  scul-  lery.  Gwenda  came  back  in,  rubbing  her  shoulder.  &quot;What  did  he  do?&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  asked.  &quot;He  didn't  do  anything,&quot;  said  Gwen-  da,  and  she  sat  down  and  went  on  eat-  ing  her  scone,  with  her  jaw  moving  slower  and  slower  as  her  eyes  filled  with  tears.  &quot;So  what  did  he  do  to  you?&quot;  &quot;Nothing,  Ma!&quot;  My  mother  said  she  must  go  to  catch  the  bus  back  to  Illford,  for  she  had  left  my  father  very  unwell.  She  took  Mrs.  Hooper's  hands,  and  she  said  she  wished  her  English  were  better  to  thank  Mrs.  Hooper  with.  Mrs.  Hooper  said,  &quot;Why  don't  you  take  your  ma  out  the  front  way?&quot;  She  noddedtoward  the  scullery  door,  behind  which  Albert  had  immured  himself.  &quot;See,  he's  washing  himself.&quot;  Outside  the  gate,  my  mother  kissed  me  and  kissed  me.  She  said,  &quot;We're  not  off  this  Sunday,  so  you  come  out  to  see  us.  Get  Mrs.  Hooper  to  put  you  on  the  bus.&quot;  I  went  back  in  and  shut  the  street  door  and  stood  in  the  hall,  wondering  if  I  ought  to  go  into  the  kitchen  with-  out  being  invited.  'The  door  was  open.  Inside,  Gwenda  and  Mrs.  Hooper  were  both  addressing  the  closed  scullery  door.  &quot;Come  on,  Albert!&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  said.  &quot;I  got  to  go.&quot;  &quot;Albert,&quot;  said  Gwenda,  &quot;come  on,  open  up.  Ma's  got  to  get  outside  to  the  toilet.  Come  on,  now!  Albert?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  there  you  are,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hooper,  seeing  me  in  the  doorway.  &quot;What  was  your  name  again?&quot;  &quot;Lore,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Lorry,  eh?  Oh.  So  you  go  on  up-  stairs.  Gwenda,  take  her  up,  and  mind  you  don't  worry  Albert's  things.&quot;  She  dropped  her  voice  as  if  she  were  speak-  ing  behind  the  back  of  a  sick  person.  &quot;He's  upset,  see!&quot;  “YOUR  ma  and  dad,  they  work  for  a  family,  don't  they?&quot;  Gwen-  da  said  as  we  walked  up  the  narrow  stairs.  «  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  in  [REDACTED]  my  father  was  chief  accountant  in  a  bank  and  my  mother  plays  the  piano.  She  studied  in  the  [REDACTED]  Music  Academy.  What  does  your  father  do?&quot;  &quot;Dad's  a  stoker  on  the  railway  and  he  belongs  to  the  union.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Does  that  fellow  live  here,  too?&quot;  &quot;Albert?  Yes.  They  adopted  him  out  of  the  orphanage  three  years  ago.  Albert's  all  right.  He's  going  to  marry  Dawn.  She's  my  sister.&quot;  &quot;How  old  is  she?&quot;  Sixteen.  In  there  is  my  ma  and  my  dad's  room.&quot;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hooper's  bedroom  was  in  front,  over  the  parlor.  Gwenda  and  Dawn  shared  the  room  over  the  kitch-  en,  and  the  room  over  the  scullery  was    for  me.  It  had  a  wardrobe  in  it  and  a  bed.  It  had  linoleum  on  the  floor,  and  was  narrow  as  a  passage.  (I  remember  I  had  a  recurring  dream,  in  those  days,  of  vast  apartments  vaulted  and  circular  as  the  Albert  Hall  in  [REDACTED],  and  in  the  dream  I  strode  in  vistas  that  seemed  continually  unfolding  before  me.)  I  went  to  the  window  and  looked  out  over  the  yard  and  the  strip  of  back  gar-  den.  It  was  as  wide  as  the  half  house,  with  a  flagstone  path  running  the  thirty-  foot  length.  At  the  foot  of  the  garden,  beyond  the  privet  hedge  run  wild,  I  could  make  out,  in  the  gathering  dark-  ness,  an  open  space,  a  sloping  field.  &quot;What's  that?&quot;  &quot;'That's  the  playing  field  of  the  County  School,&quot;  said  Gwenda.  &quot;'That's  where  all  the  snooty  girls  go.  They  wear  green  uniforms,  the  stuckup  things.&quot;  &quot;Where  do  you  go?&quot;  &quot;To  the  Central  School,  down  by  the  station.  Ma  says  when  school  starts  I'm  going  to  take  you.&quot;  &quot;Why  don't  you  go  to  the  County  School?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;What,  me!&quot;  said  Gwenda.  &quot;With  them  and  their  la-di-da  talk!&quot;  I  didn't  say  anything  then,  but  I  had  no  doubt  in  my  mind  that  I  was  going  to  go  to  the  stuckup  school  and  talk  la-di-da  myself.  Gwenda  said,  &quot;This  used  to  be  Al-  bert's  room.  He's  going  to  sleep  on  the  settee  in  the  front  parlor.  You  can  un-  pack,  and  I'll  take  some  of  his  things  down.&quot;  After  she  had  gone,  I  started  to  take  dresses  out  of  my  suitcase  and  hang  them  in  the  wardrobe,  but  I  was  too  impatient  to  finish,  what  with  all  that  I  was  probably  missing  downstairs.  I  kept  hearing  the  dog  bark  and  foot-  steps  in  the  alley.  Doors  opened  and  shut.  Voices  and  dance  music  from  the  wireless  came  up  through  the  thin  floor  boards.  I  took  some  drawing  paper  and  crayons  out  of  my  suitcase  and,  thus  fortified,  went  down  into  the  kitchen  full  of  people.  The  light  was  on.  The  wireless  was  blaring  &quot;A-Tisket,  a-Tasket&quot;  so  loud  under  the  low  ceiling  that  I  blinked.  A  girl  at  the  table  was  finishing  tangerine  sections  out  of  the  bottom  of  a  tin.  She  looked  a  little  like  Gwenda,  except  that  she  had  a  long  chin,  and  every  feature  was  bigger  and  thicker.  She  wore  her  hair  like  most  girls  that  year,  in  two  horns,  one  over  each  temple,  with  the  back  hair  falling  long  and  loose,  and  this  she  kept  swinging  away  from  the  boy,  Albert,  who  stood  behind  her  try-  ing  to  get  hold  of  it.  She  said,  &quot;T'ch,  oh,      Albert!  Hello,&quot;  she  said  to  me,  and  stared  a  little.  &quot;Hello,&quot;  I  said.  Albert  was  glaring  just  past  my  head.  He  walked  around  the  side  of  the  table  by  the  fire  and  pulled  a  chair  out  and  sat  leaning  so  far  backward  on  two  legs  that  we  all  gasped.  Then  he  put  his  two  feet  on  the  table.  In  the  open  scullery  door,  a  man  was  unbuttoning  his  collarless  shirt.  His  face  was  black  with  soot  and  dirt.  When  he  smiled,  his  teeth  showed  white,  with  a  little  gap  between  the  two  front  ones.  This  looked  marvellously  friendly.  I  liked  him.  He  seemed  to  be  looking  and  smiling  at  me.  &quot;So  how  are  you?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Come  on,  Gwenda,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hooper,  &quot;Hand  your  dad  the  towel  so  he  can  wash  up  and  I  can  give  him  his  supper.&quot;  &quot;How  can  I?&quot;  said  Gwenda.  &quot;With  Albert  in  the  way.&quot;  With  his  head  against  the  mantel  and  his  feet  on  the  table,  Albert  was  straddling  the  margin.  &quot;You  let  Albert  be,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hoo-  per,  &quot;and  come  around  the  other  side.  Dawn,  get  upand  let  her  through.&quot;  'T'ch,  oh!&quot;  said  Dawn.  She  got  up.  She  came  around  the  table  and  lowered  the  blaring  wireless.  The  relief  was  blissful.  Albert  reached  over  and  turned  it  back  up  and  louder.  Mrs.  Hooper  was  setting  a  place  for  Mr.  Hooper's  supper,  and  he  came  in  from  the  scullery  with  his  face  scrubbed  and  his  hair  flattened  down  with  water  |,  and  a  clean  blue-and-white  striped  shirt  with  the  sleeves  rolled  up  his  brown  arms.  Mrs.  Hooper  brought  him  a  plate  of  meat,  potatoes,  greens,  and  gravy,  and  sat  down  beside  him  with  her  arms  on  the  table  and  watched  him  eat  and  told  him  everything  that  had  hap-  pened-how  my  mother  hadn't  played  ;  half  beautiful  on  the  piano,  and  how  Albert  would  not  come  in  out  of  the  scullery  even  to  say  good  evening.  &quot;Oh,  Albert!&quot;  said  Dawn.  &quot;You  ®  are  a  pill.&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  said,  &quot;Let  him  be,&quot;  and  ||  Dawn  said,  &quot;Look,  Dad,  with  his  feet  ||  all  over  the  tablecloth.&quot;  But  Mr.  Hooper  wiped  his  mouth  with  his  napkin  and  moved  to  the  armchair  between  the  window  and  the  fireplace.  I  was  sure  he  grinned  at  me  before  he  pulled  the  paper  up  between  himself  and  his  family.  HBERT  must  have  known  that  he  had  been  a  pill.  Next  evening,  he  came  home  from  work  with  a  present  he  said  he  had  bought  with  his  pay  money.  It  was  a  game  with  cards  and  pictures,  and     Albert  explained  that  it  was  played  like  lotto,  but  Mr.  Ho  oper  was  having  his  s  upper  on  one  side  of  the  table  ,  and  I  had  my  drawing  things  spread  out.  I  was  doing  a  village  in  perspective,  with  houses,  streets,  and  cars.  I  had  been  drawing  this  for  years,  and  I  could  do  |-  it  pretty  well.  Gwenda,  who  was  watch-  ing,  said  she  wanted  to  draw,  too,  and  I  gave  her  paper  and  crayons.  &quot;You're  late,&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  said  to  Albert.  &quot;Well,  I  had  to  go  all  the  way  in  town,  didn't  I,  to  get  the  game!&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hooper.  &quot;Go  in  the  scullery  and  get  washed  so  I  can  get  your  supper.&quot;  But  Albert  said  words  under  his  bre  at  h  and  Mrs.  Hooper  told  }  him  not  to  swear.  Albert  found  some  dance  music  on  the  wireless  and  turned  it  up  so  high  that  the  set  rattled,  and  he  walked  out  into  the  scullery  and  banged  the  door.  &quot;He's  upset,&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  whispered.  I  was  shocked  at  this  vio-  lence  and  afraid  that  it  was  somehow  my  fault,  and  I  kept  my  head  down  when  Albert  came  back,  with  his  yellow  hair  wet  and  jutting  over  his  low  fore-  head  an  d  his  face  all  red  from  the  w  ater,  |  but  he  sat  down  across  from  Gwenda  and  me  and  ate  his  supper  like  a  lamb.  I  did  another  drawing.  This  one  had  houses,  streets,  a  church  with  spire,  and  even  a  village  square.  Gwenda  was  do-  ing  a  house  with  a  fence.  Dawn  stood  watching.  Albert  asked  Dawn  to  come  and  sit  beside  him,  but  she  said  no,  she  wanted  to  draw.  I  was  hurt  for  Albert.  I  thought  if  he  had  asked  me  to  sit  be-  side  him,  I  would  have.  Albert  finished  his  supper,  and  afterward  he  came  and  stood  behind  Dawn  and  stroked  her  hair  and  bothered  her,  she  said.  &quot;'T'ch,  oh!  Da-ad!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Tell  Albert  to  let  me  be.  Daaa-ad!&quot;  &quot;Albert,  let  Dawn  be,&quot;  said  Mr.  Hooper,  from  his  armchair.  &quot;I'm  not  doing  anything.  You  tell  her  to  let  me  be.&quot;  &quot;Dawn,  let  Albert  be,&quot;  said  Mr.  Hooper,  and  settled  back  into  his  news-  paper.  I  knew  that  Albert  would  have  liked  to  be  drawing,  too,  and  my  heart  thumped,  but  I  was  too  shy  and  too  afraid  of  him  to  offer  my  paper  and  crayons,  and  Albert  was  too  shy  to  ask.  &quot;What's  those  there  supposed  to  be?&quot;  he  asked  Gwenda,  in  a  mean  voice.  &quot;Birds,&quot;  said  Gwenda,  &quot;on  the  roof  of  the  house.&quot;  &quot;Birds,&quot;  said  Albert.  &quot;Yeah!&quot;  Gwenda  said,  &quot;Albert  is  going  to  play  goalie  for  his  team  tomorrow,  aren't  you,  Albert?&quot;  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  said  Albert,  and  then  he  went  and  sat  down,  and  he  didn't  put  his  feet  up.  XCEPT  for  Mr.  Hooper,  who  had  the  day  off  and  went  early  to  work  on  his  allotment,  where  he  grew  our  vegetables,  we  all  went  to  stand  in  the  drizzling  rain  to  watch  Albert  lose  the  soccer  game  for  his  team.  &quot;He's  ever  so  good,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hooper.  &quot;The  ground  is  slippery  for  him.&quot;  Dawn  stayed  at  the  sidelines  with  her  mother,  like  a  young  lady,  but  Gwenda  and  I  kept  Albert  company  behind  the  goalposts.  Every  time  the  ball  came  at  him  he  would  take  off  and  throw  the  length  of  his  body  straight  over  the  ball,  which  shot  into  the  goal  below  him.  We  suffered  for  him  and  we  would  go  and  help  clean  him  up.  I  held  Gwenda's  handbag  while  she  wiped  the  mud  out  of  his  eyes  with  her  handkerchief.  &quot;'That  was  a  good  try,&quot;  we  would  say.  &quot;You  couldn't  have  saved  that  one,  never  in  a  million  years.&quot;  We  walked  home  with  Albert  be-  tween  us.  &quot;You  were  ever  so  good,&quot;  we  all  said.  Dawn  supported  him  on  her  arm,  looking  admiringly  round  into  his  face.  &quot;That  other  team,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;they  didn't  know  half  the  time  what  they  were  doing.&quot;  I  saw  an  opportunity  to  get  into  Al-  bert's  good  graces.  &quot;And  they  were  all  so  big,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;They  weren't,  either,  not  all  that  big,&quot;  said  Dawn.  &quot;Albert  isn't  all  that  short.&quot;  &quot;'The  ground  wasn't  half  slippery!&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  said.  But  Albert  knew  that  he  was  too  short  for  goalie,  and  that  he  had  loused  up  the  play.  All  afternoon,  he  kept  try-  ing  to  be  funny.  Gwenda  and  I  had  gone  up  to  my  room,  and  she  was  stand-  ing  by  the  window  with  her  back  to  the  door.  A  thundering  and  sharp  slapping  sound  came  up  the  stairs,  making  her  jump,  and  a  huge  headless  shadow  ap-  peared  in  the  doorway,  its  arms  raised.  She  turned  very  red  and  then  white,  and  began  to  tremble  and  tocry.  I  be-  gan  tocry,  too,  I  don't  know  why,  be-  cause  I  hadn't  a  moment's  doubt  that  it  portended  anything  worse  than  Al-  bert  with  his  head  stuck  inside  his  back-  to-front  jacket.  My  heart  never  missed  a  beat  to  see  him  standing  in  my  door-  way,  growling  and  cracking  a  leather  belt  like  a  whip.  I  howled  to  keep  Gwenda  company.  Mrs.  Hooper  came  running  up  the  stairs  and  said,  &quot;Oh,  Albert,  now  look  what  you've  done!&quot;  and  sat  down  on  the  edge  of  my  bed  and  folded  Gwenda  under  one  elbow  and   me  under  the  other  and  rock  ed  us  on  her  so  ft  bosom.  We  roared.  Albert  backed  away,  muttering  about  trying  to  have  a  little  joke,  God  damn  it.  &quot;And  don't  you  swear  in  this  house!&quot;  Mrs.  Hoop  er  said.  She  sheph  erd  ed  us  tenderly  downstairs,  w  here  we  paraded  our  tear-stained  faces  before  A  lbert.  Al-  bert  was  walking  around  the  scullery.  Afterward,  he  went  out  and  came  back  with  a  new  card  game  for  everyon  e  to  pl  ay,  bu  t  we  said  we  were  too  upset,  for  goodness'  sake,  to  pla  y  games,  and  to  put  that  thing  away.  I  remembe  r  the  shelf  on  the  bottom  right-hand  side  of  the  kitch  en  dresser,  where  all  Albert's  games  were  kept.  I  had  half  an  expectation  that  the  family  would  sit  down  one  evening  around  the  table  and  all  pla  y  together,  but  always  Mr.  Hooper  removed  to  his  chair  and  his  paper,  and  M  rs.  Hooper  wandered  between  th  e  kitchen  and  the  scullery,  fixing  things  and  worrying.  Gwenda  an  d  I  drew  at  the  table,  Dawn  quar-  relled  w  ith  Alb  er  t,  and  Albert  fiddled  with  the  wireless,  followi  n  g  th  e  p  ro-  grams  of  dance  music  around  the  dial.  Albert's  wireless  was  a  re  al  pain  to  me.  Except  f  or  one  tune  that  had  no  lyrics  an  d  was  called  &quot;I  n  an  Eigh  tee  nth  Cen-  tur  y  Drawing  Room.&quot;  I  once  waited  a  whole  Thursda  y  a  ftern  o  on  when  my  parents  were  vis  iting  to  hav  e  it  come  on  for  m  y  mother  to  hear.  &quot;Don't  you  like  t  hat?  &quot;  I  said.  &quot;Li  sten  to  this  one.  Do  you  like  it  ?&quot;  &quot;Mein  Gott!&quot;  said  my  mother.  &quot;'That's  a  Mozart  pia  no  sonata.  In  C  major.  I  used  to  play  it!  What  have  they  done!&quot;  &quot;Isn't  it  terri  ble!&quot;  I  said,  thankful  and  sweet  it  sounded  in  my  ears.  Albert  had  come  in  to  take  his  tea  with  us;  he  sat  with  his  shy,  sulky  eyes  lowered,  not  saying  a  word  so  long  as  my  parents  were  there,  but  afterward  he  danced  around  the  table,  singing  my  tune  in  a  facetious  falsetto.  I  removed  my  eyes  from  stocky  Albert  with  his  hunched  shoulders  and  slightly  bowed  legs  mincing  a  minuet,  to  spare  him  and  myself,  as  one  looks  away  from  a  person  in  an  embarrassing  predicament.  I  usually  tried  to  not  see  Albert.  I  used  to  watch  Gwenda,  who  would  talk  to  him  and  look  at  the  permanent  red-  ness  about  his  nostrils  and  the  virulent  pink-and-purple  eruptions  on  his  adoles-  cent  skin  without  appearing  to  be  re-  volted.  This  puzzled  me  about  her.  Once,  Albert  and  I  happened  to  ar-  rive  at  the  front  gate  simultaneously,    and  there  was  nothing  for  it  but  to  walk  up  the  narrow  alley  to  the  back  door  to-  gether.  I  kept  hard  to  my  side  of  the  wall  to  avoid  contact  with  his  person,  from  which,  as  he  moved  beside  me,  there  came  a  body  warmth.  All  the  while,  I  kept  up  a  mindless  conversa-  tion,  which,  out  of  my  confusion,  sounded  like  flirtation.  &quot;Listen  to  that  dog,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;He  knows  we  are  com-  ing.  I  wonder  if  he  knows  it's  you  and  me.&quot;  Albert  said  not  a  word.  There  was  a  moment's  confusion  over  the  matter  of  the  back-door  handle,  to  which  each  of  us  had  raised  a  hand,  and  our  eyes  ac-  cidentally  met.  Before  I  could  avert  mine,  I  had  seen,  with  surprise,  where  I  had  expected  pure  hatred-for  had  I  not  turned  him  out  of  his  bed  and  room?-a  mere  surface  of  blue,  an  in-  sult.  I  walked  into  the  kitchen  ahead  of  him.  The  house  was  silent.  There  was  no  one  home,  and,  terrified  at  finding  myself  alone  in  a  room  with  Albert,  I  murmured  that  I  had  drawers  to  clean  and  ran  upstairs  to  my  room.  Downstairs,  the  wireless  shouted.  I  sat  on  my  bed.  I  dreamed  a  daydream:  I  was  looking  Albert  in  the  face.  I  was  saying,  &quot;Don't  you  know  that  everyone  would  like  you  better  if  you  were  nicer  and  better  behaved?&quot;  In  my  dream,  Albert  was  converted  and  became  a  good  boy  and  a  gentleman,  all  due  to  me.  I  stayed  upstairs  till  I  heard  Mr.  Hooper  come  home,  and  then  I  went  down  to  the  kitchen.  I  looked  surrepti-  tiously  at  Mr.  Hooper's  eyes.  He  had  brown  eyes,  not  alien,  chilly,  Christian  eyes  like  Albert.  I  knew  that  Mr.  Hooper  was  Christian,  too,  butnot  a  blue-eyed  Christian.  To  all  intents,  Mr.  Hooper  and  Gwenda  were  Jewish;  I  adopted  them.  Gwenda  I  liked  awfully.  The  only  quarrel  I  remember  having  with  her  resulted  from  our  drawing  together,  and  was  the  occasion  of  my  first  political  in-  sight.  Gwenda  now  had  her  own  cray-  ons,  and  they  were  a  different  combina-  tion  of  colors  from  mine,  so  we  figured  out  a  system  of  exchange:  if  she  bor-  rowed  my  pink,  I  would  borrow,  say,       her  sky-blue.  However,  if  my  pink,  which  I  never  used,  was  long  and  her  sky-blue,  which  was  much  in  demand,  was  short,  I  would  also  borrow  her  green,  to  make  up  for  the  difference  in  length.  The  complication  arose  if  she  needed  her  sky-blue  back  while  I  was  still  using  her  green,  because  then  she  would  have  to  make  amends  for  the  blue  with  another  crayon  of  equal  length,  and  we  forgot  which  was  whose  and  there  were  words.  I  don't  know  to  which  one  of  us  was  given  the  revelation  that  we  should  pool  our  resources  and  each  use  out  of  the  common  property  according  to  need.  We  got  a  big  box  and  put  all  our  crayons  in  it.  For  the  rest  of  the  evening,  we  went  about  with  our  arms  around  each  other.  Next  day  came  the  counter-revelation:  both  of  us  want-  ed  to  do  our  skies  at  the  same  time,  and  there  were  words.  Still,  it  seems  to  me  that  Gwenda  and  I  were  tender  and  de-  cent  with  each  other,  and  as  the  weeks  went  on,  we  were  friends.  If  one  cried,  the  other  cried,  too.  Once,  on  the  day  before  a  Sunday  visit  to  my  parents,  Albert  spoiled  the  village  I  had  done  to  take  to  them  asa  present.  It  had  houses,  streets,  church  spires,  a  church  square,  and  even  people  walking  in  it,  and  I  had  left  it  upside  down,  wanting  the  Hoopers  to  admire  it  without  wanting  to  seem  to  want  it,  so  that  it  was  just  possibly  an  accident  that  Albert  took  it  to  use  for  a  shoe  wiper.  I  was  momentarily  pained  at  the  loss  and  started  to  cry.  Gwenda  came  running  to  see  what  was  the  matter,  and,  on  being  told,  she  cried  so  sincerely  that  I  wondered  if  the  situation  were  really  as  sad  as  all  that.  That  was  the  day  Albert  brought  home  Monopoly.  OWARD  the  end  of  the  summer,  Mrs.  Hooper  took  Dawn  and  Gwenda  and  me  downtown  to  the  Air  Raid  Precaution  headquarters  to  be  fitted  for  gas  masks.  We  put  on  the  black,  ugly  masks  with  their  flat  snouts;  we  looked  strange  and  monstrous  to  each  other.  For  the  little  children  there  were  Mickey  Mouse  masks  with  blue  snouts  and  pink,  floppy  ears,  which  didn't  fool  them.  They  howled  in  terror  at  the  close,  evil-smelling  rubber  over  their  faces.  The  experience  jarred  Mrs.  Hooper,  and  on  the  way  home  she  kept  asking  me  if  I  thought  there  was  really  going  to  be  a  war.  I  said  no,  there  was  not;  Hitler  would  never  go  to  war  once  he  realized  the  Allies  meant  business.  Mrs.  Hooper  was  relieved.  I  must  know-after  all,  I  came  from  over  there.  War  was  declared  on  September  3rd;  we  heard  of  it  over  the  wireless,  and  Mrs.  Hooper  had  hysterics  and  be-  gan  to  tremble  and  sent  Gwenda  and  me  to  fetch  Mr.  Hooper  quickly  from  his  allotment  down  by  the  river.  We  ran  all  the  way.  &quot;War!&quot;  we  shouted,  coming  in  sight  of  Mr.  Hooper  squatting  near  the  little  corrugated-iron  tool  shed  on  his  length  of  land,  which  was  striped  with  rows  of  tomato  plants,  carrots,  let-  tuce,  and  beans.  &quot;Mum  says  you  got  to  come  home,  it's  war!&quot;  cried  Gwenda,  arriving  breathless  and  in  terror.  Mr.  Hooperstraightened  up.  &quot;Charlie!&quot;  he  yelled  across  to  afellow  weeding  at  the  far  end  of  the  neighbor-  ing  allotment.  &quot;War!&quot;  &quot;Which?&quot;  shouted  Charlie,  putting  his  hand  behind  his  ear  in  a  pantomime  of  not  having  heard.  &quot;waAR!&quot;  yelled  Mr.  Hooper,  with  his  hands  cupped  into  a  megaphone  be-  fore  his  mouth.  &quot;om!&quot;  Charlie  shouted  back,  and  nodded  his  head  in  pantomime  of  having  understood  and  went  back  to  his  weed-  ing.  Mr.  Hooper  sent  us  home,  saying  he  wanted  to  get  his  beans  picked  before  it  started  raining  and  he'd  be  along  in  a  little  bit.  But  it  didn't  look  to  us  as  if  it  were  going  to  rain.It  was  marvellous  how  the  sky  continued  blue  in  spite  of  the  war.  The  sun  was  high  and  hot,  and  we  walked  back  slowly.  Albert  had  got  home,  and  there  was  dance  music  com-  ing  out  of  the  wireless,  as  usual.  I  was  comforted.  Wartime  seemed  much  like  any  other  time,  except  that  we  carried  our  gas  masks  in  cardboard  boxes  on  a  string  around  the  neck  wherever  we  went.  School  had  begun.  Gwenda  and  I  came  and  went  together,  though  she  was  two  classes  ahead  of.  me.  On  the  first  morning,  we  had  louse  inspection.  I  presented  my  head  graciously;  it  must  be  clear  to  everyone  that  this  was  not  meant  for  me.  There  was  one  teacher  who  taught  all  subjects,  and  I  remember  feeling  that  she  had  nothing  new  to  tell  me.  I  turned  to  reading.  I  read  under  the  desk  all  day.  I  read  all  evening  and  in  bed  at  night  and  brought  my  book  to  breakfast.  &quot;Whose  is  this?&quot;  Albert  would  ask,  without  looking  at  me  and  holding  it  between  forefinger  and  thumb  as  if  it  were  some  unpleasant  ob-  ject  he  had  found  on  his  chair.  Shortly  before  the  Christmas  holi-  days,  a  yearly  examination  was  held  at  the  Central  School  and  both  Gwenda  and  I  won  scholarships  to  the  County  School.  My  parents  welcomed  this  change  in  my  fortunes  with  enthusiastic pride-my  father  cried  tears;  my  mother  went  in  and  told  Mrs.  Wil-  loughby.  The  Hoopers  reacted  with  a  different  sort  of  pride.  'They  weren't  going  to  have  any  kid  of  theirs,  they  said,  going  to  school  along  with  a  class  of  girls  she  didn't  belong  to.  Full  of  indignation,  I  commiserated  with  Gwenda,  but,  to  my  surprise,  she  shared  her  parents'  view.  &quot;Ma  and  Dawn,  they  went  to  the  Central  School,&quot;  said  Gwenda.  &quot;But  don't  you  want  to  go  to  a  better  school,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;where  they  teach  Latin  and  you  can  go  to  the  university?  My  Uncle  Paul  went  to  the  University  of  [REDACTED]  until  the  Nazis  threw  him  out.  He  was  going  to  be  a  doctor,  I'm  going  to  the  university.&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  get  married,&quot;  said  Gwenda.  &quot;Dad  and  Albert  didn't  go,  and  Albert  works  in  the  gasworks,  and  my  dad  got  elected  secretary  to  the  union.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  like  Albert?&quot;  I  asked  parenthetically.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  Gwenda  said.  &quot;He  belongs  in  our  house.&quot;  We  were  sitting  together  in  a  hole  we  had  made  in  the  privet  hedge  at  the  bottom  of  the  garden.  I  looked  out  over  the  grounds  of  my  new  school-at  the  playing  fields,  the  tennis  courts,  the  trees  grouped  around  the  outdoor  stage,  and  the  ample  building  along  the  top  of  the  hill.  I  would  not  believe  that  Gwenda  could  really  feel  different  from  me  about  things,  and  I  said,  &quot;Don't  you  think  that's  nice?&quot;  and  watched  her  face  with  curiosity.  &quot;It's  wicked,&quot;  said  Gwenda.  &quot;All  that  for  just  a  few  girls.&quot;  &quot;But  it's  nice,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  the  girls  in  their  green  uniforms,  don't  you  think  they  look  nice?&quot;  ''They'restuckup,&quot;  said  Gwenda.  &quot;I  like  the  girls  at  the  Central  School.  They're  my  friends.&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  be  friends  with  the  girls  at  the  County  School,&quot;  I  said.  Gwenda  and  I  sat  close,  comparing  our  snobberies.  &quot;What  are  you  going  to  be,  then,  if  you  don't  go  to  the  university?&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  take  typing  in  my  last  year,&quot;  Gwenda  said,  &quot;and  I'm  going  to  be  a  secretary.&quot;  &quot;I'm  going  to  be  a  painter,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  I'm  going  to  travel.  My  Uncle  Paul  used  to  travel  in  4974616c79  with  his  friends  before  Hitler.  I'm  going  to  have  lots  of  friends.  Poets,  and  people  like  that.&quot;  Gwenda  listened  with  all  her  heart;  her  eyes  glowed  with  enthusiasm  while  I  roamed  in  my  delicious  future  and  picked  and  chose,  like  a  child  let  loose  in  a  sweetshop,  until  Mrs.  Hooper  yelied  to  us  from  the  scullery  to  come  ind  wash  our  hands  and  have  our  sup-  pers.  &quot;So  who  is  going  to  get  your  new  uniform?&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  said.  &quot;I'm  sure  I  don't  know  what  all  they  needup  at  that  fancy  school.&quot;  Next  day,  I  took  my  gas  mask  and  went  to  see  the  lady  of  the  Refugee  Committee  and  told  her,  and  sheclosed  up  the  office  and  went  shopping  with  me.  She  got  me  the  green  princesse-  style  tunic  and  green  beret  with  the  school  emblem,  and  I  never  knew  who  paid  for  it.  &quot;Yah!&quot;  said  Albert.  Miss  La-di-da.&quot;  Albert  loathed  me.  At  Christmas,  he  gave  me  a  game-a  small  one.  For  the  rest  of  the  family  he  had  bought  a  col-  lapsible  snooker  table,  with  balls  and  cues  and  chalk,  which  he  played  by  him-  self  throughout  the  holidays.  ‘N  Z  TTH  the  beginning  of  the  new  term,  I  was  inducted  into  the  fourth  form  at  the  school  on  the  hill,  behind  the  Hoopers'  house.  &quot;Will  you  takecare  of  Lore,  here?  She's  new,&quot;  said  the  teacher  to  a  girl  sitting  in  the  front  row.  &quot;Katherine  will  show  you  around.  You  sit  here,  and,  Daisy,  will  you  move  to  the  empty  desk  in  the  back?&quot;  &quot;Ah,no!&quot;  said  this  Katherine.  &quot;Why  does  Daisy  have  to  go?&quot;  She  looked  at  me  with  a  cold  and  insolent  blue  eye.  I  talked  to  Katherine.  I  told  her  how  I  had  come  to  the  County  School  on  a  scholarship.  Katherine  looked  back  at  Daisy  and  put  her  thumb  to  her  nose.  I  decided  she  couldn't  have  meant  me,  not  with  me  standing  there.  I  said,  &quot;I'm  from  abroad,  and  when  I  came  to  Eng-  land  I  went  to  a  Hebrew  school,  and  after  the  first  term  I  was  top  of  the  class.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  like  it  in  the  new  school?&quot;  my  mother  asked  next  Thurs-  day.  &quot;I  do  like  it,&quot;  I  lied.  &quot;I  love  it.&quot;  I  spoke  with  enthusiasmabout  the  courts  and  lawns  and  trees  and  a  special  room  forart  classes,  with  easels.  &quot;It  always  takes  a  while  in  a  new  school  to  make  friends,&quot;  said  my  moth-  er.  &quot;I've  got  plenty  of  friends,&quot;  I  said,  forI  could  not  bear  my  mother  to  know  that  I  was  the  kind  of  person  who  didn't  have.  I  had  sneaked  into  Dawn's  and  Gwenda's  room,  where  there  was  a  small  mirror  on  the  wall,  to  try  to  un-  derstand  what  people  saw  when  they  looked  at  me.  My  eyes  looked  back       acute,  cr  i  tic  a  l,  and  an  xious  .  My  nose  had  lost  i  ts  baby  rou  n  dne  s  s  an  d  was  growing  sharp,  lik  e  my  fat  her's.  My  face  was  small,  made  narrower  by  a  mass  o  f  high-standing,  tigh  t  light  cur  l  s.  (My  mother  wan  ted  me  to  h  ave  my  h  ai  r  cut  sh  o  rt  ,  but  I  would  not.  I  thought  o  nce  it  gr  e  w  long  en  o  ugh  it  would  also  turn  bl  a  ck  and  fine  and  silky  and  would  fall  in  a  t  ragic  way  about  my  f  ace.  Then  I  w  oul  d  look  intere  sting  an  d  sad,  and  even  A  lber  t  would  feel  sorry  for  me.)  I  bega  n  to  wo  nde  r  tha  t  Gwenda  and  Mr.  Hooper  should  see  m  to  be  f  ond  of  me.  I  watched  t  he  m  .  I  i  nter  c  epte  d  their  eyes  l  ooki  n  g  a  t  m  e  a  nd  t  ried  to  imagine  myself  a  s  I  appeared  to  them-and  the  r  e  I  was  with  my  sharp  an  d  narr  ow  face.  I  studied  M  rs.  Ho  o  pe  r  ,  too,  an  d  she  puzzled  me  .  Often  when  she  spoke  t  o  me,  she  was  loo  k  ing  nervously  at  A  l-  b  ert-a  nd  yet  I  didn't  thin  k  she  really  disliked  m  e.  E  arly  in  1940,  my  parents  lef  t  Kent,  which  was  dec  la  r  ed  a  &quot;  protecte  d  area  &quot;  and  cleared  of  &quot;enemy&quot;  aliens  ove  r  six-  tee  n  years  of  age.  T  he  a  ir  ra  ids  were  begi  nni  ng  over  Lond  o  n.  Mr.  Hooper  and  Alb  er  t  dug  a  shel  ter  in  the  back  yard.  I  asked  M  rs  .  Hooper  if  t  hey  w  ere  going  to  b  omb  us,  an  d  she  s  aid  she  was  :|  sure  she  hoped  not,  b  ut  later  that  e  ve  -  ning  I  heard  her  tell  Mr.  Hooper  th  a  t  they  weren't  go  i  ng  t  o  drop  bombs.  &quot;  'T  h  ey  nev  er  wou  ld  on  u  s,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Would  t  hey  ,  Fred?&quot;  She  sat  and  w  at  c  he  d  him  wh  i  le  he  cut  up  his  me  a  t.  &quot;No,  &quot;  s  aid  Mr.  Hooper.  &quot;Not  on  us  .  Th  ey'll  drop  th  e  m  all  around  us  in  a  cir  c  le.  Right,  Lorry?&quot;  &quot;'Tch,  oh,  F  re  d  dy  !  &quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  said  .  &quot;I  mea  n  they  woul  dn'  t  bomb  [REDACTED]  onc  e  we  s  ho  w  t  he  m  we  mean  business.  We'll  s  end  our  s  over  and  s  how  them,  and  they  wouldn't  dare.&quot;  &quot;Y  o  u  t  ak  e  a  loa  d  off  my  mind,&quot;  said  Mr.  Hooper.  And  now  it  was  cle  ar  to  me  wi  thout  benefit  of  d  oub  t  that  the  grow  nu  ps  kn  e  w  n  o  mo  r  e  ab  out  i  t  t  han  I  did  ,  a  nd  w  ere  as  pow  e  rless  as  I  t  o  preven  t  it,  and  the  n  I  knew  that  the  b  om  b  s  wer  e  cer-  tainly  goi  ng  to  drop.  IT  was  summer  again.  The  lady  from  the  committee  had  called  and  brought  me  a  second-hand  tennis  rack-  et.  I  liked  to  hold  it.  It  felt  elegant  in  my  hand.  I  left  it  lying  around  in  the  kitchen  for  everyone  to  see.  Albert  picked  it  up  and  he  liked  the  feel  of  it.  He  felt  powerful  with  it  in  his  hand,  and  he  swung  it  in  the  air.  &quot;Wheeough!&quot;  cried  Albert.  I  think  he  would  have  liked  to  slug  me  with  it,  but  instead  he    began  to  chase  Gwenda  around  the  table.  He  had  my  green  beret  stuck  on  his  head.  &quot;Hey,  that's  mine!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Wheeoops!&quot;  yelled  Albert.  &quot;Albert,  put  that  down  before  some-  body  gets  hurt,&quot;  said  Gwenda,  with  the  table  between  herself  and  him.  &quot;Dad!&quot;  Dawn  cried.  &quot;Look  what  he's  doing!&quot;  &quot;Watch  it!&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hooper,  and  the  arm  she  raised  to  shield  herself  re-  ceived  the  full  blow  of  the  descending  racket.  Mrs.  Hooper  was  suddenly  sit-  ting  on  the  floor  between  the  fireplace  and  the  table  with  such  a  look  of  sur-  prise  that  we  all  laughed,  until  we  saw  the  pain  in  her  face.  Her  arm  hung  limp  and  useless  out  of  her  sleeve.  Gwenda  and  I  began  to  cry.  Mr.  Hooper  knelt  by  his  wife  and  took  hold  of  the  disabled  arm,  and  despite  Mrs.  Hooper'sscreaming  he  wrenched  it  back  into  its  socket  and  raised  her  to  a  chair,  where  Mrs.  Hooper  sat  holding  her  shoulder  and  rocking  to  and  fro.  Her  face  was  white  and  tears  still  pressed  out  of  her  eyes,  but  she  could  move  her  arm,  she  said,  and  it  was  all  right.  Albert,  who  had  fled  from  the  room  at  the  sight  of  what  he  had  done,  was  walking  round  and  round  the  scullery  with  a  sulky,  scarlet  face.  His  teeth  were  chattering.  &quot;Goddam  tennis  racket!&quot;  he  said.  Gwenda  and  Dawn  and  I  kept  going  out  on  pretended  errands  for  the  poor  sufferer,  and  we  gave  Albert  bale-  ful  looks.  It  was  the  only  time,  I  re-  member,  that  I  dared  look  at  Albert  with  my  full  hatred  and  so  pay  him  back-not  for  hurting  Mrs.  Hooper  but  for  keeping  me  in  terror  all  these  months.  One  day  not  long  after,  I  came  back  from  school  and  Mrs.  Hooper  was  home  alone.  She  was  nervous  and  kept  wrapping  her  hand  into  her  apron,  and  her  chin  was  trembling.  I  made  her  sit  down  in  Mr.  Hooper's  armchair  by  the  kitchen  window.  She  told  me  how  a  great-aunt  of  Mr.  Hooper's,  who  lived  in  an  old-persons'  home,  had  got  pneu-  monia  and  was  quite  ill.  Mrs.  Hooper  began  to  cry.  She'll  get  better,  won't  she?&quot;  I  comforted.  Mrs.  Hooper  shook  her  head  vigor-  ously.  &quot;No,  she's  ever  so  ill.  You  know,  with  pneumonia  at  her  age.  I  think  I  have  to  nurse  her,  see,  and  she  may  have  to  come  and  live  here,  and  we  d-d-don't  have  a  b-b-b-b-bed.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Oh.  Well.  Maybe  she  can  have  my  bed?&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  was  crying  so  hard  I      put  my  arms  around  her.  &quot;Yes,  I  ex-  pect,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Hooper.  &quot;'Then  where  will  I  sleep?&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  cried  harder.  &quot;You  don't  have  to  worry,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  can  find  somewhere  to  live,&quot;  and  I  rocked  Mrs.  Hooper  on  my  chest,  &quot;and  _  then  I  can  come  back,  you  know,  when  she's  better.&quot;  Mrs.  Hooper  dried  her  eyes.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  f  she  said.  &quot;And  maybe  anyway  it  would  be  better  if  you  lived  with  some  people  where  their  children  go  to  the  County  School.&quot;  I  went  downtown  to  tell  the  com-  mittee  lady  I  needed  a  new  home.  She  looked  through  the  card  index  and  said  there  was  a  family  called  Grimsley  who  wanted  to  take  a  refugee.  Gwenda  helped  me  move.  She  put  my  suitcase  on  the  back  of  her  bicycle,  and  as  we  walked  we  promised  each  |;  other  that  we  would  be  friends  forever  and  I  would  come  and  visit  her.  Whenever  the  girls  had  been  particu-  larly  beastly,  I  ran  across  the  playing  ||  field  after  school  and  through  the  hole  in  the  privet  hedge  to  try  and  find  my  old  community  with  Gwenda,  but  now  that  we  were  going  to  different  schools  there  was  less  to  talk  about.  One  after-  noon,  I  asked  Gwenda  to  teach  me  some  swear  words,  but  she  looked  solemn  and  said  she  would  not  say  them  out  loud.  I  said,  &quot;Why,  they're  just  a  bunch  of  let-  ters,&quot;  but  Gwenda  said  she  would  not,  not  for  anything.  &quot;Suppose  someone  said  if  you  don't  say  some  swear  words  you  can't  have  your  birthday  party  next  week-wouldn't  you  say  them?&quot;  Gwenda  thought  about  this  and  then  she  said  no,  she  would  not  say  them  for  anything.  I  said  I  would;  I  would  say  them  for  nothing-my  trouble  was  that  I  didn't  know  any.  Gwenda  was  going  to  be  fifteen,  and  she  was  taking  short-  hand  and  growing  very  pretty.  As  I  was  leaving,  I  saw  Albert.  He  was  watching  Gwenda  and  me  from  behind  the  window  of  my  old  room.  Gwenda  said  he  slept  there  now.  I  asked  her  if  her  father's  great-aunt  was  going  to  move  in.  Gwenda  said  no.  Soon  after  this,  my  mother  wrote  for  me  to  come  to  her.  My  father  had  been  put  in  an  internment  camp  along  with  all  male  aliens,  and  my  mother  thought  if  we  went  to  another  town  together,  I  could  find  a  new  home  and  she  a  new  job  and  we  would  be  near  each  other.  I  went  to  say  goodbye  to  the  Hoopers,  but  they  were  in  a  great  commotion.  Albert  had  been  called  up  and  was  going  into  the  Army.  Dawn  was  in  tears.  Dawn  and  Albert  had  been  going  to  be       married,  and  then  decided  to  wait  till  he  came  back  from  the  war.  Gwenda  went  among  them,  calming  everybody.  FTER  the  war,  in  1945,  just  before  I  was  to  enter  the  university,  I  made  a  sentimental  journey  back  to  Mellbridge.  At  the  Hoopers',  there  was  a  new  young  dog  who  barked  as  I  came  up  the  alley  between  the  houses.  A  fat  baby  slept  in  a  perambulator,  in  the  yard.  It  was  Dawn's  son.  Dawn  had  married  a  boy  called  Sam,  and  was  liv-  ing  at  home  while  her  husband  was  overseas.  She  had  the  room  she  and  Gwenda  had  shared,  and  Gwenda  had  my  old  room.  Mrs.  Hooper  gave  me  a  cup  of  tea.  She  was  sorry  Mr.  Hooper  would  not  be  home  from  work  in  time  to  see  me,  but  there  was  Gwenda  coming  up  the  alley  now.  Gwenda  was  working  as  a  secretary.  She  was  a  lovely  and  solemn  young  woman  of  nineteen.  She  walked  me  to  my  train.  She  told  me  she  was  en-  gaged  to  marry  a  sailor.  We  made  a  small  detour  in  order  to  drop  in  on  Al-  bert,  who  had  been  invalided  out  of  the  Army  soon  after  he  went  in.  He  was  married  and  lived  in  a  purple  brick  street  opposite  the  gasworks.  His  wife  was  a  snippy  little  woman  with  black  hair  and  sharp  eyes,  who  talked  all  the  time  that  we  were  there.  Every  now  and  then,  she  whipped  around  on  Albert  to  tell  him  to  stop  slouching,  and  to  sit  up,  and  not  to  snuffle.  Albert  and  I  said  goodbye.  Our  hands  met  briefly,  but  our  eyes  slid  away,  for  he  and  I  shared,  like  an  ob-  scenity  between  us,  the  knowledge  that  we  had  hated  one  another.  