 b"WHEN  we  were  children,  one  of  \xe2\x80\x98J\xe2\x80\x98l  our  favorite  games  was  playing  Grandfather.  I  had  the  title  role  and  my  two  sisters  played  support-  ing  parts  We  made  believe  that  the  lane  down  to  the  spring  well  was  the  main  street  of  Mullaghduff,  the  nearest  village,  and  my  sisters  would  walk  along  it,  looking  from  side  to  side,  as  if  they  were  window-shopping.  Then  suddenly  I  would  jump  up  from  behind  the  haw-  thorn  hedge  and,  with  the  deepest  voice  I  could  produce  for  my  eight  or  nine  years,  I  would  say,  &quot;Ah!  If  it's  not  my  daughter-in-law  and  her  careful  brood!  Good  day  to  you,  Madam.  A  very  good  day  to  you.&quot;  That  was  enough  to  send  the  three  of  us  into  fits  of  laughing.  Indeed,  many  a  time  I  did  not  get  to  finish  my  speech.  Even  though  they  knew  I  was  going  to  pop  up  somewhere  along  that  hedge,  sometimes  I  was  able  to  give  them  a  genuine  surprise.  'Then  my  sisters  would  squeal  with  real  shock,  their  fright  would  spread  to  me,  and,  forgetting  we  had  created  the  myth  ourselves,  the  three  of  us  would  take  to  our  heels  and  race  to  the  far  end  of  the  well  field,  where  we  would  laugh  ourselves  sore  with  near  hysteria.  Some-  times  Father  found  us  playing  this  game.  A  strange  look  would  come  into  his  eyes  and  he  would  walk  quick-  ly  away,  not  saving  a  word.,  It  was  his  father  we  were  playing,  but  what  he  did  not  under-  stand  was  that  we  meant  no  harm.  I  sup-  pose  he  thought  we  were  mocking  the  old  man.  But  when  Moth-  er  caught  us  play-  ing  Grandfather,  she  skelped  us  around  the  legs  with  her  bare  hand,  called  us  bold,  disobedient  children,  and  said  that  all  her  rearing  and  good  example  was  for  nothing  and  that  we  seemed  deter-  mined  to  come  to  a  bad  end  despite  her  efforts.  'That  would  stop  the  game  for  a  couple  of  weeks-until  we  would  find  ourselves  out  of  earshot  of  the  house  and  bored  and  in  a  rebellious  mood,  and  I  would  creep  up  behind  the  girls  and  intone  the  forbidden  words  again.  The  real  grandfather  could  never     have  been  as  awesome  as  the  invented  one,  but  we  hadn't  had  the  chance  of  learning  that  by  experience.  Mother  took  every  care  to  keep  us  apart.  From  the  day  she  and  my  father,  Joe  Burke,     got  married,  she  never  allowed  Grand-  father  to  visit  our  house,  nor  did  we  ever  see  the  inside  of  his  house.  If  she  could  have  hidden  his  existence  from  us  alto-  gether,  she  would  have  done  so.  But  that  was  impossible,  because  every  Sat-  urday  evening,  when  she  dressed  us  up  and  brought  us  into  the  village  for  con-  fession,  we  invariably  got  a  quick,  nerv-  ous  glimpse  of  him  either  going  into  or  coming  out  of  a  public  house.  But  only  a  glimpse,  because  as  soon  as  heappeared  Mother  would  begin  fussing  about  us:  &quot;Have  you  got  your  rosary  beads?  Do  you  know  all  your  sins?  How  long  is  it  since  your  last  confession?  Stop  gawking  about.  Keep  your  eyes  on  the  footpath.&quot;  But  we  had  seen  him,  and  I  remember  the  thrill  of  forbidden  delight  at  watch-  ing  him  from  the  corner  of  my  eye-a  tall,  straight-backed,  heavily  built  man  with  a  huge  red  face  framed  within  a  wild  crop  of  white  hair  and  side  whisk-  ers  and  a  full-length  beard.  And  we  would  have  heard  him,  because  when-  ever  he  saw  us-and  I  remember  few  Saturdays  when  he  did  not-he  gave  us  a  grand,  regal  salute  and  called  to  us  in  his  deep,  resonant  voice,  even  though  we  would  be  twenty  yards  past  him.  His  greeting  varied,  but  he  al-  ways  addressed  Mother  as  Daughter-in-Law  and  us  as  &quot;the  brood.&quot;  Some-  times  he  would  say,  in  his  faintly  mocking  way,  &quot;Ah!  The  Burkes!  How  do  you  do?  Not  off  to  confession  again,  Daugh-  ter-in-Law?  Heavens,  woman,  but  you  must  lead  a  profligate  life!&quot;  Mother's  face  would  tighten  and  she  would  say  under  her  breath  &quot;'The  scourge!  The  scourge!&quot;  and  drag  us  roughly  toward  the  chap-  el  gate.  Or  he  might  call  &quot;Well,  well,  well!  Mrs.  Burke  and  her  brood!  Anx-  ious  as  ever  in  the  services  of  the  Lord.  Will  you  join  me  in  some  refreshment?  No?  Some  other  time,  then.  Some  other  time.&quot;  We  never,  never  answered  him,  and  if,  on  the  way  home  after  confession,  we  brought  up  his  name,  Mother  sel-  dom  said  more  than  &quot;He's  just  a  man,  God  forgive  him.  He  can't  help  him-  self,  because  he's  a  man.&quot;  From  what  Mother  let  drop  occa-  sionally  and  from  what  we  had  learned  from  the  other  children  in  school,  we  pieced  together  a  sketchy  picture  of  the  man.  Father  was  his  only.  child,  and  " b"his  wife,  ourgrandmother,  diedthe  same  year  that  Father  got  married  to  our  mother,  Mary  Neeson,  the  eldest  of  a  cautious,  well-to-do  family  from  County  Louth.  The  old  man  was  then  close  on  seventy  himself,  but  within  one  month  of  his  wife's  death  he  got  mar-  ried  again,  this  time  to  a  flighty  woman  of  forty-five  from  the  village  of  Mul-  laghduff.  On  marrying  for  the  second  time-&quot;God  forgive  him,&quot;  Mother  used  to  say.  &quot;May  God  in  His  mercy  forgive  him.  Aw,  the  dirty  thing!  The  dirty  thing!&quot;-he  sold  his  home  and  bit  of  a  farm  and  went  into  the  village  to  his  new  wife's  place.  But  they  had  not  been  there  a  summer  when  she  died,  too-  &quot;Would  you  blame  her?&quot;-and  from  then  on  he  took  to  the  wild  living:  point-to-point  meetings,  drinking,  ev-  ery  fair  within  forty  miles,  wakes,  wed-  dings,  and  christenings.  He  became  un-  kempt.  He  had  tussles  with  the  police  on  fair-days.  And  it  was  whispered  by  the  older  children  in  school  that  he  took  whiskey  for  his  breakfast,  gin  for  his  dinner,  and  rum  for  his  supper.  I  re-  member  grouping  him  mentally  with  the  unfamiliar  and  terrifying  things  that  I  encountered  in  the  world  beyond  my  immediate  home  area-the  haunted  house  in  the  school  field;  old,  demented  Lizzy  Quinn,  who  used  to  come  rush-  ingout  of  her  one-room  house  at  the  roadside,  catch  me  by  the  lapels,  and  ask  &quot;Are  the  boys  back  from  thefront  yet?  ;&quot;  Jack  Taylor's  cross  terrier  bitch.  Grandfather  was  one  of  these,  but  his  menace  was  greater,  because  I  always  knew  that  one  day,  oneday  of  doom,  he  would  get  me  and-I  honestly  be-  lieved  it-devour  me.  E  got  me  on  my  tenth  birthday.  Birthdays  in  our  house  were  cele-  brated  with  the  same  formal,  ceremoni-  ous  jubilation  with  which  we  observed  the  major  feast  days  of  the  Church.  We  did  not  actually  prepare  for  our  birth-  days  by  fasting,  but  Mother  did  attempt  to  heighten  the  enjoyment  of  the  event  itself  by  imposing  petty  restrictions  on  us  for  a  week  beforehand.  We  would  have  no  sweets,  no  playing  after  supper-  time,  no  visiting  our  school  friends  or  having  them  call  on  us-&quot;not  until  your  birthday.&quot;  The  result  was  that  we  moped  about  the  house  and  quarrelled  with  one  another.  When  the  birthday  finally  arrived,  we  were  dressed  up  in  our  Sunday  clothes,  and  Father  would  be  home,  having  agreed,  with  bad  grace,  to  do  no  work  around  the  farm,  but  when  the  presents  and  the  dinner  were  spread  generously  before  us,  we  would  often  be  in  no  form  for  celebrating  anything,  and  the  occasion  frequently " b"fizzled  out  with  further  squabbling  and  tears.  My  tenth  birthday  was  a  failure,  like  so  many  of  the  others  before.  It  was  the  month  of  May,  and  the  day  had  been  warm  and  heavy  and  thick  with  threatened  thunder.  I  had  fought  with  one  of  my  sisters  over  the  sugar-coated  elf  that  decorated  the  cake,  and  the  other  sister  was  sulking  because  Mother  had  called  her  obstinate  and  mulish  when  she  refused  to  sing  as  we  sat  round  the  table  after  eating.  Father  had  ambled  off  in  his  usual  fashion,  his  hands  in  his  pockets,  looking  vaguely  at  the  apple  trees  and  at  the  roofof  the  byre  and  out  toward  the  Gortin  moun-  tains,  where  the  thunder  growled.  Only  Mother  was  brisk  and  purposeful.  She  had  arranged  family  games  for  us  for  the  afternoon  and  she  was  determined  that  we  would  enjoy  them.  The  accident  occurred  when  she  was  fastening  a  piece  of  string  with  an  apple  at  the  end  of  it  to  the  drawing-  room  ceiling.  The  steps  on  which  she  was  standing  overturned  and  she  fell  to  the  floor,  cutting  her  forehead  on  the  brass  fender.  The  cut  was  long  and  deep,  and  she  lay  full-length  on  the  car-  pet.  Had  Father  been  an  efficient  man,  she  would  have  allowed  herself  to  faint,  but  she  had  to  think  and  act  for  the  two  of  them.  &quot;Get  a  basin  of  warm  water  and  a  clean  handkerchief  and  bring  them  here  beside  me,&quot;  she  directed.  'Then  go  to  my  bedroom,  and  in  the  bottom  left-hand  corner  of  the  ward-  robe  you  will  find  a  bottle  of  iodine.  Bring  it,  too.&quot;  My  sisters  and  I  stood  gaping  down  at  her,  each  ofus  feeling  responsible  for  this  mishap  because  we  had  been  diffi-  cult  all  day.  Father  came  running  when  we  called  him,  and  he  fetched  the  wa-  ter  and  the  cloth.  But  there  was  no  iodine.  &quot;I  told  you,&quot;  said  Mother.  &quot;It's  in  the  wardrobe.  In  the  bottom  left-hand  corner.&quot;  &quot;I  looked,&quot;  said  Father.  &quot;This  is  the  bottle,  but  it's  empty.&quot;  Mother  hesitated  momentarily.  &quot;Yes,  Tom,&quot;  she  said  to  me.  &quot;You're  a  big  man  now.  You  can  go  to  the  village  for  some.  It  won't  take  you  more  than  half  an  hour  to  run  in  and  back  again.&quot;  She  turned  to  Father.  &quot;You'll  find  a  ten-  shilling  note  in  my  purse  under  the  stairs.  Give  it  to  Tom.&quot;  She  turned  to  me  again.  &quot;And  if  the  chemist  asks  you  any  questions,  just  say-just  say  it's  for  dressing  a  slight  wound.  That'll  satisfy  him.&quot;  I  must  have  kept  staring  down  at  her,  because  she  added,  &quot;Well,  you  know " b"the  way,  don't  you?  What  sort  of  a  baby  are  you?  Run  both  ways,  and  be  careful.  Get  the  money  and  off  you  go.  Run!&quot;  Of  course  I  knew  the  way-every  inch  of  it.  But  on  that  day,  the  journey  was  different;  the  road  was  narrower  and  more  tortuous,  and  the  high,  full-  leafed  hedges  concealed  vague  enemies  who  were  going  to  try  to  prevent  me  from  saving  my  mother's  life.  The  countryside  had  fallen  quiet,  waiting  for  the  thunder  to  spill  over  it.  I  steeled  my-  self  for  the  dangers  I  knew-the  haunt-  ed  house  in  the  school  field;  old,  de-  mented  Lizzy  Quinn;  Taylor's  cross  terrier  bitch-and  successfully  negoti-  ated  each  one  as  it  came.  But  it  was  only  when  I  came  to  the  outskirts  of  Mul-  laghduff  that  I  remembered  Grand-  father,  and  panic  suddenly  flooded  me.  It  was  one  thing  to  steal  sly  glances  at  him  from  behind  my  mother's  elbow  but  quite  another  thing  to  meet  him  alone  in  all  his  grisly  strength.  I  stood  at  the  mouth  of  the  main  street  and  looked  up  it.  The  chemist's  shop  was  near  the  top,  on  the  right-hand  side.  My  best  plan  was  to  run  like  a  hare  along  the  houses,  dart  into  the  shop,  get  the  iodine,  and  dart  out  again.  I  clutched  the  note  in  my  fist  and  ran.  I  never  got  to  the  shop.  I  didn't  even  get  halfway.  Just  as  I  was  passing  the  post  office,  the  giant's  voice  boomed  out.  &quot;Well,  if  it  isn't  the  grandchild,  eh?  Who  have  we  got  here?  Which  of  them  is  it?&quot;  So  intent  had  I  been  on  reaching  my  goal  that  I  had  no  eyes  for  anything  else.  Now  the  huge,  terrifying  figure  tow-  ered  over  me,  and  my  face  looked  into  a  spherical  stomach.  &quot;It  is  a  Burke,  isn't  it?  Well,  speak  up.  Isn't  it?&quot;  I  said  it  was.  'This  is  an  occasion!  An  unescorted  Burke  roaming  the  big,  bad  world  all  alone!  Look  up  at  me,  man!  Look  up  He  put  a  hand  the  size  of  a  plate  un-  der  my  chin  and  tilted  my  head  back,  and  I  saw  the  big,  hairy  face  and  the  red,  hungry  mouth.  Our  bodies  were  so  close  that  they  touched  one  another,  and  I  became  aware  of  something  that  was  completely  new  to  me:  this  mountain  of  a  man  had  a  smell-a  composite  odor  of  tobacco  and  porter  and  peat  smoke.  It  was  not  an  unpleasant  smell,  but  it  was  very  strong  and  very  heavy-as  heavy  as  thesmell  of  poppies  or  of  cows  on  a  frosty  night.  On  this  sultry  day,  it  lay  stagnant  all  around  him  like  an  aura.  Even  asI  looked  into  his  face,  my  only  thought  was  that  I  was  breathing  this " b"smell  into  me  and  that  it  was  making  me  drowsy.  &quot;You're  the  boy,&quot;  said  Grandfather.  &quot;You're  Tom,  are  you  not?  My  own  name,  lad,  and  a  good  name.Carry  it  with  dignity,  always.&quot;  His  hand  moved  from  my  chin  to  my  cheeks  and  over  my  hair.  &quot;Yes.  A  Burke,  all  right.  A  Burke  to  the  backbone.  But  there's  something  about  the  mouth,  lad-some-  thing  that's  not  ours.  Aye,  it's  small  and  watchful-a  Neeson  mouth,  that,  I'm  afraid.  But  no  matter.  No  matter.&quot;  He  rumpled  my  hair.  &quot;Have  you  a  tongue,  lad?&quot;  I  said  I  had.  &quot;And  do  you  know  who  I  am?&quot;  I  said  I  did.  'Tell  me,  then.&quot;  &quot;You're  my  grandfather.&quot;  &quot;Aye,&quot;  he  said  slowly.  &quot;Your  grand-  father.&quot;  Then  he  suddenly  burst  out  laughing  so  hard  that  his  swollen  belly  shook  be-  fore  my  nose.  &quot;Dammit,  that's  a  good  one,  eh?  Tom  Burke  and  Tom  Burke.  I'll  tell  you  what,  lad.&quot;  His  voice  sank  to  a  whisper.  &quot;We'll  make  a  day  of  it,  the  two  of  us.  Eh?  What  about  it?  We'll  do  a  tour  of  the  ancient  settle-  ment  of  Mullaghduff-a  tour  of  inspec-  tion  by  the  Burkes,  grandfather  and  grandson.  What  do  you  say?&quot;  I  began  to  explain  about  my  mother,  but  he  broke  in  on  my  excuse.  &quot;All  in  due  course,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  our  tour  first.  You're  a  straight-backed  lad  and  well  shaped,  and  I  want  the  whole  town  to  see  us  parading  together.  You  wouldn't  deny  an  old  man  that  pleasure,  would  you?&quot;  He  gripped  my  elbow  and  turned  me  back  toward  the  direction  I  had  come  from.  &quot;We'll  inspect  the  south  side  first,  before  the  sun  begins  to  drop.&quot;  And  he  marched  me  off  with  :)  him.  I  was  too  afraid  to  resist,  and  fell  in  along  with  him,  taking  three  or  four  steps  to  every  one  of  his.  From  the  mo-  ment  we  set  off,  he  never  ceased  talking,  and  for  the  first  while  I  was  too  scared  to  listen  to  what  he  was  saying.  But  gradually  my  fear  scattered  and  in  its  place  came  a  mixture  of  awe  and  curi-  osity,  a  real  passion  of  curiosity  about  his  age  and  his  height  and  the  texture  of  his  beard  and  his  famous  crosses  with  the  police  and  his  travels  and  his  escapades.  But  when  I  was  on  the  point  of  asking  the  first  question,  my  tongue  stalled  on  me.  I  let  him  talk  on  and  on.  He  spoke  like  a  grand  judge,  with  wonderful  words  flowing  out  of  him,  and  he  made  the  one  main  street  that  was  Mullagh-  duff  into  the  most  romantic  place  in  the  whole  of  Ireland.  &quot;Do  you  see  that  old  ruin  of  a  man-  " b"sion  over  there,  lad,  among  the  trees?&quot;  he  began.  &quot;Well,  that  was  once  the  stately  home  of  Golden  Gallagher,  the  man  who  discovered  a  Spanish  galleon  three  miles  out  on  the  bed  of  the  bay.  A  great  man  in  his  day  was  Golden.  Went  through  a  royal  fortune  in  less  than  five  years.  Ah  hah,  but  he  made  this  town  sing  during  that  time!  And  when  he  found  the  wreck,  he  got  all  the  young  lads  from  around  these  parts,  myself  included,  I  would  have  been  about  your  age  then.  He  got  us  to  dive  down  into  that  black  hulk  and  bring  up  thetreasures  we  found  down  there-  doubloons  and  moidores  and  sapphires  and  bijoux.  Handfuls  of  them  at  a  time,  man!  More  than  we  could  cope  with.  Until  the  crafty  ones  amongst  us  used  to  carry  them  up  in  our  mouths  and  be-  tween  our  toes  as  well  as  in  our  fists,  because  for  everyjewel  we  brought  to  the  surface  he  gave  us  a  gold  sover-  eign.  A  royal  fortune  he  made,  God  rest  his  soul,  but  it  didn't  burden  him  for  long.  And  in  there,  lad,  of  the  road,  is  the  place  where  the  old  church  used  to  be.  You  can  see  the  foundations  yet  among  the  nettles.  That  was  the  church  that  Cromwell's  troops  burned  down  in  the  middle  of  the  night.  But  if  they  did,  they  paid  sorely  for  it,  because  the  men  from  Gortin  saw  the  red  glow  in  the  sky  and  made  over  here  as  fast  as  horses  could  carry  them.  A  thousand  strong  they  were,  the  blood  risen  in  them.  And  there,  by  the  light  of  that  fire,  they  tore  those  soldiers  of  Crom-  well's  apart  with  their  bare  hands,  limb  from  limb,  bone  from  socket.  And  they  never  buried  those  bits  of  Englishmen  until  the  sun  and  the  rain  had  bleached  them.&quot;  Not  once  did  he  slacken  his  pace  or  pause  in  his  speech,  but  kept  striding  along  and  talking,  so  that  between  try-  ing  to  keep  abreast  of  him  and  trying  not  to  miss  a  word  he  was  saying  I  was  giddy  with  confusion.  &quot;And  straight  in  front  of  you,  lad-  aye,  there,  where  that  bicycle  is  propped  against  the  footpath-that  was  once  the  exact  spot  where  the  ancient  Druids  had  their  temple.  It  was  a  round  building  that  commanded  a  view  as  far  as  eye  could  see.  They  worshipped  the  sun,  those  Druids,  and  every  dawn  and  sun-  set  they  went  down  on  their  knees.  Like  this.&quot;  He  dropped  suddenly  to  the  ground,  his  forehead  touching  the  pave-  ment.  Then,  completely  unconcerned  about  passersby,  he  was  on  his  feet  again  and  propelling  me  to  the  edge  of  the  town,  to  a  field  under  which  flowed  a  silver  river  whose  singing  could  be  heard  on  Midsummer  Night  only.  Then  we  saw  a  tinker's  caravan  wherein,  he  told" b"me,  lived  the  only  man  in  the  whole  of  Ireland  who  could  claim  direct  relation-  ship  back  to  Cathair  Mor,  King  of  Lein-  ster.  We  saw  the  second-oldest  goat  in  Europe  and  a  calf  that  had  been  born  with  two  heads  (one  of  them  had  been  removed  the  week  before  we  saw  it).  We  looked  over  the  wall  at  the  work-  house  where,  in  the  old  days,  young  or-  phan  boys  had  been  beaten  to  death  by  a  savage  workhouse  master  called  Bloody  Baldrick,  who  was  himself  kicked  to  death  by  a  savage  one-eyed  horse.  And  we  went  to  the  harbor  and  looked  across  the  Atlantic  at  New  York,  where  a  hun-  dred  million  lights  burned  day  and  night  and  where  volcanoes  threw  whole  streets  sky-high.  I  HAD  forgotten  completely  about  my  mother.  Indeed,  had  Grand-  father  kept  talking  I  might  never  have  remembered  her.  But  when  we  arrived  back  at  the  place  where  he  had  got  me,  he  came  to  a  halt  and  said,  &quot;Well,  now.  What  do  you  think  of  Mullaghduff,  ch?&quot;  He  caught  a  fistful  of  his  beard  and  eyed  me  roguishly.  &quot;One  other  place  I  forgot,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;The  chapel.  But  I  think  you  have  been  there  once  or  twice  before.&quot;  &quot;Mother-&quot;  'Yes.  She  cut  herself,  didn't  she?  Never  worry,  lad.  Never  worry.  The  Neesons  are  seldom  taken  in  the  prime  of  life.  The  Lord  gives  them  a  long  span  in  this  valley  of  tears  before  He  calls  them.  And  now,  lad,  after  all  that  talking  I'm  thirsty.  You'll  join  me  in  some  refreshment,  won't  you?&quot;  I  got  no  chance  to  consider  thepro-  posal,  because  he  seized  me  by  the  elbow  again  and  brought  me  into  a  nearby  public  house.  The  place  was  empty  ex-  cept  for  a  boy  of  about  my  own  age  who  stood  behind  the  counter.  As  soon  as  he  saw  us,  he  disappeared  into  the  kitchen  through  a  door  at  the  back  of  the  shop.  We  waited  for  him  to  return.  Grand-  father's  fingers  drummed  impatiently  on  the  brass  rail  and  he  called,  &quot;Shop!  Shop!  Hello!  Hello!&quot;  No  one  came  to  attend  us.  Then,  after  a  long  delay,  the  door  opened  again  and  the  boy  reappeared.  He  stood  at  the  far  end  of  the  counter  and  ad-  dressed  us  from  there.  &quot;My  da  says  that  you're  to  get  no  more  drink  here,  Burke.  He  says  no  more  tick  for  you.&quot;  To  this  day,  I  can't  be  certain  about  why  I  acted  as  I  did  then.  I  could  see  Grandfather's  face  in  the  mirror  behind  the  bar-a  face  that  looked  old  and  lined  and  weary.  I  cannot  remember  exactly  how  the  hot  ten-shilling  note,  which  I  had  been  clutching  all  after-  noon,  slipped  from  my  hand  into  his." b"I  know  nothing  was  said.  I  know  there  cannot  have  been  a  second's  hesitation.  When  our  fingers  fumbled  below  the  counter,  I  was  not  aware  of  being  reck-  less  or  generous  or  patronizing  or  fool-  hardy.  At  that  time,  it  seemed  the  only  thing  to  do;  money  was  needed,  and  I  had  some.  That  was  all.  &quot;Tick?  Who  wants  tick?&quot;  Grand-  father  demanded.  &quot;Don't  you  recognize  money  when  you  see  it?&quot;  He  banged  the  note  on  the  counter  and  grunted  his  contempt.  &quot;Here,  lad,  quickly!  The  usual  for  myself  and  a  soft  beverage  for  my  grandson,  Tom  Burke&quot;  -he  hesi-  tated  momentarily-&quot;my  true  kinsman.  Hurry  up,  lad!  Hurry  up!  Don't  stand  gawking  at  us!  Hurry  up.&quot;  The  skies  opened  on  us  as  soon  as  we  came  out  into  the  street  again,  pouring  down  straight  sheets  of  rain  that  soaked  into  me  in  seconds.  We  lowered  our  heads  and  ran  into  it.  At  the  end  of  the  street,  Grandfather  stopped,  as  if  he  had  come  to  the  boundary  of  his  terrain  and  could  go  no  farther.  Then  he  took  off  his  jacket  and  draped  it  over  my  head  and  shoulders.  &quot;You're  a  good  lad,  Tom  Burke,&quot;  he  said  quietly.  &quot;A  good  lad.  We'll  have  another  day  together  soon  again.  Go  on,  now.  Off  home  with  you.&quot;  He  pushed  me  gently  from  behind  to  start  me  on  my  way.  I  moved  off  a  few  paces  and  turned  around.  He  was  running  through  the  downfall  in  his  shirtsleeves,  his  huge  head  down  on  his  chest,  his  back  hunched.  I  watched  him  until  he  was  out  of  sight,  but  he  did  not  look  back.  I  was  in  no  hurry  to  get  home.  I  dawdled  along  the  road,  deliberately  walking  into  the  puddles  of  water  that  had  gathered  on  it.  Grandfather's  jacket  was  a  huge  tent  from  under  which  I  could  see  the  lines  of  rain  driving  down  in  front  of  me.  Inside  my  tent,  it  was  warm  and  damp  and  comfortable.  And  then,  as  I  ambled  along,  I  became  aware  again  of  the  smell-the  smell  of  Grand-  father.  It  filled  my  cavern  and  floated  around  my  nose  and  eyes.  Iraised  my  arm  and  sniffed  it.  My  arm  was  per-  meated  with  the  smell,  and  my  chest  and  my  whole  body.  The  smell  was  through  me  and  all  about  me.  And  I  knew  that  as  long  as  it  lasted  I  would  have  the  courage  to  meet  my  mother  and  tell  her  the  terrible  news-that  I  had  no  iodine  and  no  money  and  that  Grandfather  had  got  me.  "