 b"OL'  Vimpie  de  Villiers  is  the  fast-  O  est  runner  in  school,  Dad,&quot;  said  David  Conway.  He  rubbed  his  nose,  and  the  sunlight,  dap-  pled  with  the  shadows  of  oak  leaves,  camouflaged  the  small  boy's  grub  on  his  hand-toast  crumbs,  butter,  and  honey.  A  large  blue  drop  of  milk  rolled  down  his  chin,.  &quot;Even  licks  ol'  Toekie  de  Wet  at  running.&quot;  In  summer,  the  Conways  always  had  breakfast  in  the  garden-something  that  couldn't  be  enjoyed  just  anywhere  in  [REDACTED]  Town.  The  lack  of  wind  in  their  neighborhood,  which  was  near  [REDACTED]  Road,  was  one  of  the  com-  pensations  for  living  where  they  did,  ten  miles  from  False  Bay.  This  was  something  Eileen  constantly  told  her  son,  when  he  complained  he  could  not  get  down  to  the  beach  every  afternoon  after  school.  She  spoke  indulgently  to  David,  and  in  so  doing  always  seemed  to  be  remembering  that  she  had  been  married  for  eight  years  before  he  was  born.Since  that  event,  another  eight  years  had  gone  by.  Old  this  and  old  that.  Old?  &quot;OP?&quot;  thought  Andrew  Conway,  wondering  why  the  phrase  turned  in  his  mind.  There  was  a  cushion  on  the  chair  be-  hind  his  back,  and  he  readjusted  it  in  order  to  try  and  ease  the  pain  along  his  spine.  Then  he  propped  the  newspaper  against  the  coffee-  pot  and  saw  that  Eileen  was  still  reading  Gwen  Myburgh's  letter  that  had  arrived  from  [REDACTED]  in  the  morning's  post.  &quot;Poor,  poor  Gwen,&quot;  Eileen  said.  &quot;I  see  she's  still  at  Toot  Baldon  with  the  children,  with  Bill's  mother.  I  suppose  that  means  Bill  hasn't  found  a  flat  for  them  yet  in  [REDACTED].  She  doesn't  say  whether  he's  fixed  himself  up  in  a  proper  job,  either.  Not  so  easy,  when  you  come  to  think  of  it,  for  a  man  of  forty-five  to  start  afresh  like  that.  Of  course,  Gwen  never  wanted  to  leave.  She  was  keen  on  try-  ing  the  Rhodesias.  What's  the  news  from  there  this  morning?&quot;  AndrewConway  looked  up  from  the  newspaper.  'There  was  a  fly  on  the  lid  of  the  honeypot.  Seeming  to  stand  on  its  head,  it  lifted  its  hind  legs  in  the  air  and  rubbed  them  together.  &quot;And  the  Congo?&quot;  heheard  Eileen  ask.  He  tapped  the  honeypot,  and  the  fly  flew  off  onto  Eileen's  shoulder.  She  had  put  down  Gwen  Myburgh's  letter  and  was  reading  circulars  and  notices  of  wom-  en's  meetings;  she  received  several  such  every  day.  &quot;Actually  I  don't  mean  the  Congo,&quot;  Eileen  went  on.  &quot;I  was  thinking  of  Nyasaland.  Ha!  Now,  here's  a  thing.  Here's  A.C.W.A.  telling  me  I  have  to  help  at  a  cake  sale  Tuesday  at  ten  in  aid  of  the  Little  Sprites'  equip-  ment  fund,  and  here,  if  you  please,  is  W.H.H.A.  telling  me  that  Tuesday  at  ten  I'm  to  help  at  a  jumble  sale  also  in  aid  of  the  Little  Sprites.  And  the  truly  ridiculous  thing  is  that  the  Hon.  Sec.  of  A.C.W.A.  is  also  Hon,  Sec.  of  W.H.H.A.!  Gwen  used  to  be  Hon.  See.  of  A.C.W  .A.  I  suppose  Bella  Lands-  berg  finds  it  a  bit  confusing  having  to  cope  with  both  things.&quot;  Andrew  shifted  in  his  chair  and  looked  over  the  newspaper  at  the  hy-  drangeas.  They  were  like  a  hundred  colored  balloons  blown  up  by  a  breath  of  wind  and  then  dropped  by  it  through  a  trellis  of  light  and  onto  the  bushes.  They  were  all  the  more  remarkable,  he  thought,  because  he  had  been  unable  to  prune  them  for  two  seasons-ever  since  the  beginning  of  his  back  trouble.  Prun-  ing  season  began  when  the  trees  on  the  road  before  their  house  shed  their  leaves  and  unbarred  a  glittering  view  of  Table  Mountain.  He  sighed,  reflecting  that  he  no  longer  even  possessed  the  clothes  he  used  to  wear  when  he  worked  about  the  house.  He  thought  of  the  green  cor-  duroy  shorts,  the  yellow  shirt,  and  the  knitted  cap  that  had  a  tassel  swinging  from  the  crown-the  same  outfit  he  used  to  wear  when  he  climbed  the  mountain  regu-  larly.  Eileen  had  given  those  clothes  away  long  ago.  She  con-  stantly  went  to  his  wardrobe  and  took  out  his  older,  most  com-  fortable  clothes  and  put  them  inside  a  cedarwood  chest  in  the  hall.  There  his  things  were  stored  until  she  carried  them  off  to  one  of  her  women's  meetings,  where,  he  understood,  but-  tons  were  replaced,  holes  were  darned,  collars  were  turned.  A  sale  of  jum-  ble,  she  always  said,  was  one  of  the  best  ways  for  raising  funds,  so  thattoys  could  be  bought  for  nursery  schools,  books  for  African  adult  night  schools,  mugs  for  soup  kitchens,  gifts  and  com-  forts  for  hospitals,  and  so  on.  She  be-  longed  to  countless  committees,  asso-  ciated  with  larger  organizations  whose  initials  more  or  less  ran  the  gamut  of  the  alphabet.  She  was  seldom  home  when  he  returned  from  work  in  the  evenings.  Not  that  he  objected  to  her  activities,  he  thought.  But  it  did  worry  him  that  David's  homework  went  unsupervised.  After  a  good  two  years  of  schooling  at  the  very  school  through  which  Andrew  had  proceeded  from  Sub  A  to  matric,  the  boy  showed  little  signof  literacy.  Andrew  thought  of  the  shoes  he  al-  ways  saw  lying  on  top  of  David's  bed,  the  Superman  comics  under  it.  In  a  jar  on  the  window  sill,  tadpoles  lost  their  tails  and  turned  into  frogs.  From  time  to  time,  a  pregnant  white  mouse  poked  an  agitated  face  out  of  a  toy  cupboard  and  withdrew  twitchingly  once  more.  A  chameleon  might  be  seen  walking  along  a  reader  on  David's  table.  It  seemed  to  be  hypnotizing  itself  as  it  rolled  its  eyeballs  around.  Lately,  David  was  always  to  be  found  in  his  room  when  Andrew  came  home  from  work.  As  aparting  gift  to  him,  Gwen  My-  burgh  had  given  David  a  portable  gramophone,  which  she  said  her  chil-  dren  had  outgrown.  With  that  gramo-  phone  there  had  come  a  number  of  rec-  ords.  There  was  Mendelssohn's  &quot;Spring  Song&quot;  and  &quot;The  Blue  Danube.&quot;  There  was  &quot;The  Volga  Boatmen&quot;  and  &quot;Hi-Lili,  Hi-lo.&quot;  Therewas  &quot;Swannee  River&quot;  and  &quot;Sarie  Marais.&quot;  There  were  even  a  number  of  Chopin  pieces-  three  waltzes,  two  \xc3\xa9tudes,  and  one  ma-  zurka.  Yet  out  of  the  gramophone  only  one  tune  ever  emerged.  Andrew  knew  its  ridiculous  words  by  heart:  Oh,  my  ol'  man's  a  dustman,  'e  wears  a  dustman's  'at,  'e  wears  gorblimey  trousers,  An'  'e  lives  in  a  council  flat.  It  was  not  often  the  record  was  turned  over  to  allow  the  same  coquettish  male  voice  to  lament  about  a  little  ship  on  an  ocean.  A  lonesome  ocean,  he  remem-  bered.  Nearly  always,  hefound  David  among  a  circle  of  boys  radiating  around  the  gramophone  on  the  floor  of  the  room.  'They  lay  on  their  stomachs  and  clicked  time  to  the  music  with  their  up-  turned  heels.  Andrew  did  not  expect  David  to  spring  from  his  stomach  to  his  feet  and  say  &quot;Good  evening,  Dad.&quot;  &quot;Hullo&quot;  would  have  been  enough-  just  &quot;Hullo.&quot;  To  ask  for  some  greet-  ing,to  complain  about  the  comics  on  the  floor,  or  the  babymice  that  scuttled  behind  a  barrage  of  armored  dinky  toy  cars,  or  the  frog  that  hopped  about  the  room,  or  the  blare  of  the  music,  would  havebeen  to  expose  himself  to  a  line  of  ridicule  from  the  song.  (e's  getting  past  'is  prime,&quot;  the  voice  wagged,  &quot;I  say,  I  say,  I  sey.&quot;  As  Andrew  shifted  his  gaze  from  the  hydrangeas  to  the  trees,  he  noticed  that  the  \xc3\xa9loofs  and  gullies  that  ran  like  mag-  nificent  flaws  down  the  glassy  wall  of  the  mountain  were  invisible  on  this  par-  ticular  morning.  'The  leaves  were  too  thick.  &quot;'T  oot  Baldon,&quot;  Eileen  said  to  David.  &quot;What's  that?  A  ham-?  A  ham-?&quot;  &quot;Let,&quot;  said  David.  " b"&quot;And  it's  near  Ox-?&quot;  Ox-?  Ox  what?&quot;  &quot;Ford,&quot;  said  David,  wiping  his  mouth  on  his  shirtsleeve.  &quot;Jolly  good.  By  the  way,  Andrew,  Gwen  says  she's  awfully  worried  about  the  girls'  schooling.  Naturally,  with  the  huge  drop  to  be  expected  in  Bill's  income  and  the  high  taxes  there,  they  simply  can't  afford  a  private  school  for  the  girls,  and  she's  certain  they'll  fail  that  dreadful  public  exam  the  children  there  have  to  write  at  the  end  of  their  primary  schooling.  If  they  do,  it  means  they  won't  be  able  to  get  into  a  gram-  mar  school,  and  she  doesn't  want  them  to  go  to  one  of  those  schools  where  they  do  domestic  science.&quot;  Conscious  more  than  ever  of  the  pain  that  nagged  his  back,  Andrew  folded  his  newspaper.  Why  he  ever  tried  to  read  it  at  breakfast  was  something  he  had  never  answered  satisfactorily  to  himself.  And  now,  as  though  to  direct  the  con-  versation  into  channels  more  relevant  to  them  all,  he  looked  at  David.  &quot;What's  the  Afrikaans  for  a  hamlet?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Now,  there's  a  thing,&quot;  said  Eileen  approvingly.  &quot;I  must  say  even  I  know  the  answer  to  that  one,  though  I've  for-  gotten  just  about  all  the  Afrikaans  I  ever  learned  at  school.  My  language  could  do  with  some  brushing  up.  When  you  think  that  the  stuff  is  there  for  you  to  see  it  everywhere.  On  every  bench,  on  top  of  every  post-office  door-  way,  and  translated  for  one  as  well.  Either  'Blankes'  or  'Nie-Blankes'-Eu-  ropeans  or  Non-Europeans.  It's  amaz-  ing  one  doesn't  pick  it  up  more  easily.  A  hamlet  is  'dorp,'  David.&quot;  &quot;And  a  small  dorp?&quot;  said  Andrew  heavily.  &quot;A  dorpie,&quot;  said  David.  He  picked  up  his  satchel  from  the  grass  and  looped  the  straps  across  his  shoulder.  Not  much  later,  his  head  and  his  striped  cap  could  be  seen  bouncing  like  a  ball  among  the  thick  hydrangeas.  Eileen  sighed.  &quot;I  can  never  under-  stand  why  you  constantly  complain  about  his  ignorance.  Did  you  hear  the  way  he  rattled  off  the  names  of  all  the  English-speaking  countries  in  the  South-  ern  Hemisphere  last  night?&quot;  Andrew  glanced  at  his  watch.  It  wasn't  late;  there  was  almost  half  an  hour  to  spare.  He  always  called  by  at  Tony  Louw's  house  to  give  Tony,  his  colleague,  a  lift  in  to  work  in  the  firm's  1960  [REDACTED],  the  car  that  had  been  his  to  use  ever  since  Bill  Myburgh,  hav-  ing  decided  to  move  to  [REDACTED],  had  re-  signed  his  position  as  branch  sales  man-  ager.  Andrew  took  up  his  newspaper  contentedly.  There  was  no  doubt,  he  thought,  opening  the  paper,  that  the  angle  of  the  seat  in  that  car  was  far  more  comfortable  than  the  one  in  the  little  car  he  had  given  Eileen  to  run  around  in.  &quot;Gwen  asks  after  you,&quot;  Eileen  said,  shuffling  her  circulars.  &quot;She  asks  after  your  back.  Do  you  find  driving  about  in  Bill's  car  really  such  a  relief?&quot;  It  always  irritated  Andrew  when  Eileen  referred  to  the  firm's  car  as  &quot;Bill's  car.&quot;  This  time,  he  felt  an  add-  ed  tiny  spurt  of  resentment  that  she  should  have  spoken  of  something  he  had  just  been  thinking.  Had  he  become  as  obvious,  as  easy  to  read,  as  all  that?  &quot;Are  you  sore  about  something?&quot;  Eileen  said,  studying  his  face.  &quot;Did  I  say  I  was  sore?&quot;  &quot;Well,  then,  why  do  you  look  like  that?  Besides,  if  your  back's  not  too  bad,  why  don't  you  take  a  couple  of  aspirins?&quot;  Eileenheld  the  sleeve  of  her  gown  as  she  lifted  her  coffee  cup.  VER  the  years,  whenever  Andrew  complained  of  the  pain  in  his  back,  Eileen  prescribed  aid  according  to  the  degree  of  discomfort  she  decided  he  was  suffering  from.  Aspirins  if  the  pain  was  not  bad,  as  she  usually  seemed  to  think;  A.P.C.s  if  the  pain  was  bad;  and  co-  deine  if  the  pain  was  terrible,  the  way  hers  usually  was  when  she  had  one.  Not,  of  course,  that  she  mentioned  her  pains,  Eileen  always  said.  Women  were  used  to  pain.  Indeed,  she  seemed  to  speak  with  greater  authority  than  their  physician,  Dr.  Landau,  who  had  a  dazed,  over-  worked  manner.  He  was  doctor  to  just  about  everyone  the  Conways  knew  in  [REDACTED]  Town.  &quot;Who  knows?&quot;  was  Dr.  Landau's  favorite  expression.  &quot;Who  knows?&quot;  he  had  saidin  his  office  just  the  week  before,  while  playing  his  hands  up  and  down  Andrew's  spine.  &quot;Some  patients  say  sleeping  on  a  hard  board  wedged  under  the  mattress  helps.  Others  say  it  doesn't.&quot;  Then  he  digressed-another  habit  of  his.  &quot;Re-  member  that  patient  of  mine,  suffering  from  a  back  similar  to  yours?  The  one  who  decided  to  emigrate  from  Africa  shortly  after   Sharpevillet  .  .  .  Sorry.  Sorry.  You  say  it's  sore  all  round  here?  All  right,  I'll  go  carefully.  ...  Well,  anyway,  what  happens  to  him  when  he  gets  to  [REDACTED]?  His  child's  allergy  dis-  appears.  Did  I  tell  you  his  child  had  this  allergy  I  couldn't  cure?  Well,  he  writes  to  me  to  ask  if  I  didn't  think  the  climate  there  had  anything  to  do  with  it.  Asks  me!  Asks  me?  Do  I  know  if  the  allergy  wouldn't  have  cleared  up  if  they'd  remained  in  [REDACTED]  Town?  Do  " b"I  know  what  happens  to  people  when  they  leave  a  country  like  this?&quot;  Dr.  Landau  straightened  upand  sighed.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  can  put  on  your  shirt  now.&quot;  He  sat  down  at  his  desk  and  began  to  write  out  a  prescription,  still  talking  to  Andrew.  &quot;When  you  think  of  that  day  here  in  [REDACTED]  Town,  just  nine  or  ten  days  after  the  shooting  at  Sharpeville.  You  re-  member  that  day,  Andrew,  when  there  were  those  thousands  of  Africans  marching  up  and  along  the  de  Waal  Drive-unbelievable  sight-and  into  [REDACTED]  Town,  and  there  were  machine  guns  guarding  Parliament?  Didn't  you  think  then  there  was  going  to  be  some-  thing  else  coming,  something  worse  than  Sharpeville?  ...  You  still  have  plenty  of  codeine,  haven't  you?  ...  An-  other  patient  of  mine,  one  who  has  a  shop  in  Adderley  Street,  said  to  me,  'Dr.  Landau,&quot;  he  said  to  me,  'the  day  I  look  out  of  my  door  and  see  an  armored  car  parked  outside,  and  I  see  I'm  not  dreaming,  either,  I  say  to  myself,  &quot;Ben-  nie,&quot;  I  say,  &quot;this  is  where  you  close  shop  for  the  day.&quot;&quot;  So  thank  God  there  was  no  shooting.  'Those  marchers  just  went  back.  ...  You've  been  sleeping  all  right?  Not  too  much  pain  at  night?&quot;  Sometimes  it  was  difficult  to  know  whether  Dr.  Landau  was  talking  about  the  trouble  peculiar  to  Andrew  or  to  the  country.  Though  Dr.  Landau  could  be  clear  enough  at  times.  &quot;'Tell  me,&quot;  he  asked  at  the  end  of  that  last  visit,  &quot;you  find  this  other  car  you  drive  now-the  one  the  Myburghs  left  you-much  bet-  ter  for  your  back,  don't  you?&quot;  That  damned  car  again.  Everything  was  connected  somehow-his  back,  the  demonstrations  after  Sharpeville,  the  car,  the  Myburghs'  leaving.  &quot;I'd  rather  starve  in  a  welfare  state  than  risk  the  necks  of  me  gals  in  this  uncertain  state,&quot;  Bill  Myburgh  had  saidto  him  in  the  worst  of  those  troubled  times.  He  had  rolled  jowls  and  large  hands  with  tufts  of  hair  sprouting  between  his  knuckles.  He  always  forgot  that  Andrew  had  a  painful  back,  and  he  thumped  him  there.  &quot;You're  a  fool  to  stay  on,  [REDACTED];  he  said.  &quot;'There's  your  Davey  boy.  There's  your  Eileen,  that  pretty  gal  of  yours.  You're  a  damned  fool!&quot;  Damned  fool!  thought  Andrew.  Pretty  gal,  indeed!  Eileen  wasn't  a  &quot;gal.&quot;  How  often  now  she  would  stand  before  the  mirror  in  their  bedroom,  wondering  aloud  whether  the  dress  she  was  wearing  wasn't  too  girlish  for  her  figure  or  perhaps  too  matronly  for  her  face.  She  would  wait,  touchy  as  an  adolescent,  for  the  opinion  she  had  asked  of  him.  Come  to  think  about  it,  why  didn't  she  take  Aer  old  clothes  out  of  the  wardrobe  and  stuff  them  inside  that  cedarwood  chest?  His  train  of  thought  was  interrupted  when  he  noticed  that  she  was  scraping  some  marmalade  over  a  piece  of  dry  toast.  &quot;Bothered  about  your  figure?&quot;  he  said,  nodding  toward  the  piece  of  toast.  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;I  said  are  you  bothered  about  your  figure?  You  left  off  the  butter.&quot;  Eileen  crunched  her  toast.  &quot;I've  other  things  to  think  about,  I  can  assure  you.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  need  assuring,&quot;  said  An-  drew,  his  eyes  brushing  the  sun-mottled  tablecloth  as  if  to  clear  it  of  the  mess  of  circulars.  &quot;For  instance,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;we're  go-  ing  to  have  to  find  more  men  to  give  old  clothes.  When  Bill  left,  a  lot  of  our  regular  supply  stopped.  Gwen  always used  to  say  a  new  suit  of  clothes  never  fitted  Bill  more  than  a  couple  of  months.  Yet  somehow  he  never  looked  gross,  did  he?&quot;  Andrew  could  not  help  smiling  to  himself.  He  had  once  learned  from  Eileen  that  Bella  Landsberg  had  con-  trasted  his  own  lean  figure  very  favor-  ably  with  Bill  Myburgh's  baggy  one,  when  pulling  their  respective  garments  out  of  the  mending  heap.  Poor  Bill,  he  thought.  In  that  climate  there!  It  was  so  raw  it  took  the  skin  off  one's  bones  just  to  think  of  it.  Nowadays,  Bill  would  need  every  garment  he  possessed  just  to  cover  his  back  there.  &quot;Anyway,&quot;  said  Eileen,  in  a  compen-  satory  tone,  &quot;for  all  his  size,  I  miss  him'!&quot;  She  spoke  out  as  though  she  had  decided  once  and  for  all  to  declare  everything.  &quot;We  do-committee  does,  that  is.&quot;  Andrew  looked  up  over  his  cup  at  her.  The  sun  poured  down  onto  her  pale-brown  hair,  filling  it  with  golden  ripples.  Her  arms,  beyond  the  wide  sleeves  of  her  gown,  were  short  and  round.  He  was  surprised  tosee  a  deli-  cate  blue  vein  in  the  soft  flesh  above  one  wrist.  There  was  a  dimple  in  the  elbow  that  rested  on  the  arm  of  her  chair.  &quot;My  friend  Bella-how  is  she?&quot;  he  asked,  suddenly  feeling  gay.  &quot;What's  she  like,  by  the  way?&quot;  &quot;Poor  girl,&quot;  said  Eileen.  &quot;Absolute  ly  terrified  of  her  mother-in-law.  Of  course,  the  old  girl  means  so  awfully  well.  Do  you  know  that  the  proceeds  of  every  cake  sale  we  have  are  just  about  doubled  by  the  contributions  Bella  brings  along  from  the  old  Mrs.  Lands-  berg's  rummy  kitty?&quot;  Her  face  became  eager  and  intense  when  she  talked.  He  noticed  that  with-  out  makeup  she  looked  younger,  more  vulnerable.  Bill  Myburgh  had  been  right;  she  was  a  gal  and  a  half,  that  Eileen  of  his.  &quot;A  gal  and  a  half,&quot;  he  used  tosay.  When  you  came  to  think  of  things,  he  thought  admiringly,  she  worried  far  less  about  herself  than  about  other  people.  She  was  honestly  con-  cerned  about  Gwen  Myburgh  and  Bel-  la  Landsberg...  She  was  troubled  about  the  Africans  in  particular.  She  would  come  home  from  meetings  of  the  women's  study  group  to  which  she  also  belonged,  carrying  feelings  as  indignant  as  those  of  a  suf-  fragette.  &quot;That  terrible  pass  system!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Fancy  people  having  permits  and  passes  foisted  on  them  as  if  they  were  aliens  in  the  land  they  were  born  in!  Fancy  having  to  carry  with  you  always  documents  more  involved  than-than  those  a  traveller  carries  in  his  passport.  How  would  you  like  to  be  in  dange:  of  arrest  all  the  time  unless  you  could  " b"suddenly  produce  your  identification,  your  tax  receipts,  the  name,  address,  and  monthly  signature  of  your  employ-  er,  and  all  that?  Papers  that  give  you  the  privilege,  not  the  right,  to  live  or  work  or  move  about  in  a  certain  place.  No  matter  how  poor  they  are  or  how  torn  their  clothes  are,  they're  still  expected  to  have  some  tattered  pocket  somewhere  to  carry  those  dreadful  papers  in.&quot;  Often  he  heard  this  same  despairing  note  in  her  voice  when  she  went  along  to  the  cedarwood  chest  in  the  hall,  with  her  arms  full  of  clothes.  He  was  glad  he  had  never  quarrelled  with  her  over  any  of  the  formal  clothes  she  had  put  away  inside  the  chest.  After  all,  those  suits  and  shirts  meant  nothing  to  him.  Unlike  his  mountain  clothes  and  his  gardening  clothes,  they  bore  no  rela-  t  on  to  himself  or  to  [REDACTED]  Town.  'The  folds  of  Eileen's  gown,  the  soft-  ness  of  her  arms  made  him  stir  in  his  chzir.  All  at  once,  he  wanted  topull  her  out  of  her  chair,  to  ruffle  and  startle  her  in  the  middle  of  the  bright  garden,  to  kiss  her  under  the  dappled  light  of  the  oak  tree.  With  this  impulse  came  other  thoughts.  It  was  late-time  for  him  to  pick  up  Tony  Louw.  And  a  sudden  move  toward  Eileen  would  cause  the  pain  in  his  back  to  tug  against  the  natu-  ral  fow  of  his  love.  He  would  have  tak-  en  her  hand,  at  least,  had  she  not,  at  that  moment,  remembered  something.  &quot;You  didn't  put  that  wretched  old  fshing  jacket  out  on  your  bed,&quot;  she  said  to  him.  &quot;Why  do  you  cling  so  to  it,  Andy?  You  know  you'll  never  go  fish-  ing  at  Hout  Bay  again.&quot;  Andrew  pushed  his  chair  back  from  the  table  and  walked  across  the  garden  to  the  house.  He  took  his  suit  jacket  off  tae  hall  stand  and  put  it  on.  His  hat  was  on  one  side  of  a  bowl  of  flowers  Eileen  always  kept  dead  center  on  top  of  the  cedarwood  chest.  As  he  reached  for  it,  the  telephone,  which  was  also  in  the  hall,  began  to  ring.  The  silly  noise  irritated  him-he  had  no  doubt  it  was  one  of  Eileen's  committeewomen-and  so  did  the  sight  of  their  aged  ginger  cat,  lying,  as  usual,  on  the  other  side  of  the  fowers,  where  it  spent  all  its  lustless  days,  seem-  ing  to  preserve  old  resentments  inside  its  coat.  Andrew  ignored  the  phone  and  walked  through  the  house  to  the  garage.  How  sure  Eileen  was!  How  confident  she  was  that  he  would  never  spend  an-  other  day  at  Hout  Bay.  He  himself  was  no  longer  sure  of  anything.  He  had  reversed  the  [REDACTED]  out  of  the  garden  when  he  heard  Eileen  shouting  something  at  him.  &quot;Oh,  take  that  damned  jacket!&quot;  he  called.  &quot;You  know  you'll  take  it  wheth-  er  I  give  it  to  you  or  not!&quot;  Did  she  give a  damn  for  his  feelings?  Did  anyone?  Somehow,  over  the  months,  ever  since  he  had  first  become  aware  of  the  trouble  in  his  back,  he  felt  as  though  he  were  losing  his  hold  on  the  country,  on  the  places  he  loved-the  bays  where  he  had  swum  and  fished,  the  mountain  whose  rocks  he  had  once  felt  inhis  fingers.  All  at  once,  it  seemed  to  him  that  a  violent  wrench  from  [REDACTED]  Town  would  be  easier  to  bear  than  this  gradual  process  of  losing  his  grip  on  things.  It  was  as  if  his  country  were  being  taken  away  from  him  piece  by  piece.  N  Andrew  drove  up  to  Tony's  house,  he  expected  to  see  the  small,  pre-  cise  figure  of  his  colleague  at  the  gate.  But  this  morning  Tony  was  not  at  the  gate.  His  position  there  was  occupied  in-  stead  by  a  large,  leisurely-looking  Afri-  can  woman.  Tony's  child-a  more  or  less  speechless  baby  boy-was  clamped  to  her  breast.  The  woman  must  have  been  stationed  there  to  tell  him  Tony  had  already  gone  into  town.  Once  before  when  he  had  been  late,  Tony  had  phoned  him  to  say  he  would  be  getting  a  lift  to  town  with  a  neighbor.  Damn!  That  must  have  been  Tony  on  the  phone,  he  realized  as  the  woman  jounced  the  baby  in  her  arms.  &quot;And  a-where's  your  daddy?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Your  daddy's  gone!  Gone!&quot;  she  answered,  swaying  and  smiling  at  the  baby.  She  raised  the  baby's  hand  and  waved  it,  with  hers,  at  the  car.  &quot;''Ta-ta.  Bye-bye,.  Goodbye.&quot;  So,  he  thought,  Tony  had  gone,  and     an  African  woman  had  waved  goodbye  to  him.  It  was  ridiculous  that  this  slight  change  in  his  normal  routine  should  make  him  feel  disturbed.  Andrew  always  travelled  along  the  de  Waal  Drive  on  his  way  to  and  from  work.  This  road  high  above  [REDACTED]  Town  winds  around  Devil's  Peak  and  Table  Mountain,  like  a  conveyor  belt  carrying  a  production  line  of  splendid  cars.  A  stranger  to  [REDACTED]  Town,  too  conscious  of  the  confusing  strictures  of  Apartheid,  might  be  forgiven  for  thinking  that  this  superior  thoroughfare  was  reserved  for  Europeans  only.  Andrew,  stiffly  upright  behind  the  wheel  of  the  [REDACTED],  was  suddenly  aware  that  almost  the  only  Africans  he  ever  saw  on  the  Drive  were  chauffeurs.  At  the  same  moment,  al-  though  most  of  the  peak-hour  traffic  was  over  and  his  progress  into  the  city  this  morning  was  cont  nuous,  he  had  the  absurd  wish  to  leave  the  de  Waal  Drive  and  take  the  other  route  into  town.  This  other  road,  running  parallel  to  the  de  Waal  Drive  and  lower  down,  was  called  the  Main  Road.  The  cars  there  always  seemed  smaller  to  him.  There  was  an  intersection  ahead  where  he  could  make  the  turn  down  and  onto  the  Main  Road.  The  automatic  traffic  lights  there  seemed  to  have  been  assigned  the  crazy  task  of  separating  one  stream  of  people  from  another.  But  instead  of  sim-  plifving  traffic,  Andrew  thought,  these  lights  always  gave  the  impression  that  they  had  lost  control  over  everything  as  they  blinked  at  limousines  and  small,  shabby  cars  alike,  at  bicycles  and  lorries,  " b"pedestrians  and  horse  carts,  fruit  bar-  rows  and  donkey  traps,  at  lumbering  buses,  and  at  the  endless  mixture  of  passengers  and  pedestrians  whose  color  ranged  from  white  to  brown  to  black.  To  take  that  turn  and  that  route  into  town,  he  knew  at  once,  would  bring  him  to  work  much  too  late.  He  steered  the  [REDACTED]  dutifully  along  the  de  Waal  Drive.  Yet,  some  time  later,  when  he  was  seated  in  his  office  studying  the  com-  plicated  estimates  for  the  next  budget  that  had  to  be  drawn  up,  while  Miss  Sid-  dons  waited  with  her  pencil  poised  above  her  pad,  he  found  himself  thinking  again  of  his  journey  into  town.  He  had  really  longed  to  leave  the  de  Waal  Drive  and  plunge  downward  into  the  giddy  noise  and  bright  disorder  of  the  Main  Road.  He  had  wanted  to  be  distracted.  He  was  sure  of  that.  But  distracted  from  what?  Not  from  his  own  troubles,  surely?  To  be  jolted  along  from  one  traffic  light  to  another  would  have  worsened  his  dis-  comfort.  He  frowned  over  his  papers  at  Miss  Siddons.  &quot;It  is  a  problem,&quot;  Miss  Siddons  said.  She  looked  devotedly  at  the  figures  on  her  pad.  He  was  glad  of  her  attention  to  duty.  At  five  o'clock,  Tony  Louw  put  his  head  round  Andrew's  door.  He  tipped  two  fingers  to  his  head.  &quot;Snifter?&quot;  This  was  his  customary  sparse  invitation  to  a  quiet  drink  with  the  boys.  Andrew  declined.  &quot;Oh,  come  on,&quot;  said  Tony.  &quot;A  couple  of  snifters  taken  regularly  at  five o'clock  each  day.  Better  for  your  back-  bone  than  any  quack's  tonic.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  Andrew  said  stiffly.  &quot;No,  thank  you.&quot;  Not  long  after,  Andrew  found  him-  self  wishing  he  had  joined  him  after  all.  As  he  sat  in  the  [REDACTED]  on  the  de  Waal  Drive,  he  thought  of  his  col-  leagues  relaxing  comfortably.  Here  on  the  Drive  at  peak  hour,  it  was  impossible  to  feel  relaxed.  The  queue  ofcars  ahead  of  him  and  piling  up  in  his  rear-view  mirror  made  him  wonder  whether  there  hadn't  been  a  bad  accident  up  ahead.  After  a  few  minutes,  heturned  off  his  ignition  key.  Perhaps  the  block  was  being  caused  by  unusually  heavy  traffic  at  the  intersection  of  the  arterial  road  that  came  up  from  the  Main  Road  and,  be-  yond  that,  from  the  distant  suburbs  of  [REDACTED]  Town.  Andrew  looked  out  of  the  side  win-  dow  to  his  left.  The  suburbs  were  too  far  away  to  be  seen  clearly  today.  Con-  tained  in  theblue  ares  of  the  oceans,  they  looked  like  great  patches  of  color  on  an  unfinished  canvas.  A  haze  was  suspended  over  them,  as  if  the  waves  of  the  Atlantic  on  one  side  and  those  of  the  Indian  on  the  other  had  sprayed  them  with  foam.  It  was  impossible  to  distin-  guish  the  African  suburbs  of  Nyanga  and  Langa  from  the  surrounding  ones,  for  everything  looked  beautiful.  Beautiful,  Andrew  thought.  Every-     Here,  the  fountain's  que  stio  n  marks  of  haze  No  longer  glaze  the  marble.  Winter's  s  pare  ,  Bone  mo  numents  of  stone  and  glass  ap  pra  ise  Themselves  across  the  plaza,  the  evening  a  ir  Holds  up  the  starlight  in  that  silent,  queer  Moment  of  perfection  when  each  thing  assays  Its  selfhoo  d  only,  and  perception  stays  .  Diagonal  Prometheus,  gilded,  bare,  Strains  his  hard  gold  body  and  gold  hair  To  flight  that  trembles  in  an  abstract  fire;  A  pine  is  centered  in  a  tent  of  wire  Above  his  head,  and  as  the  tongue-tied  hour  Breaks  upon  the  bells,  the  season's  martyr  Merges  with  the  vision  of  the  fire-bringer  Moss  thing  was  beautiful  except  for  the  pain  in  his  back.  His  wretched  back!  If  only  it  would  stop  bothering  him  for  a  mo-  ment.  He  would  really  have  to  go  round  and  see  Dr.  Landau  again.  Not,  of  course,  that  old  Landau  really  helped.  All  the  same,  there  was  a  quack  who  didn't  pretend.  One  thing  old  Landau  never  did  was  to  prescribe  tonics  he  knew  would  not  work.  On  the  other  hand,  he  was  so  damned  indecisive  about  everything.  &quot;Who  knows?  Who  knows?&quot;  Andrew  could  hear  him  say-  ing  again,  speaking  perhaps  about  his  back,  perhaps  about  the  day  of  that  march  in  [REDACTED]  Town.  The  miles  of  Africans  who  had  emerged  that  day  out  of  Nyanga  and  Langa!  Ten  thou-  sand  men  had  walked  up  the  arterial  road,  crossed  the  Main  Road,  entered  de  Waal  Drive,  turned  right  and  faced  [REDACTED]  Town,  and  marched  forward.  Andrew  had  not  seen  the  march.  Like  most  of  the  people  working  in  shops  or  offices,  he  had  only  got  to  hear  about  it  at  midday.  Rumors  began  to  spread  that  it  was  happening,  had  hap-  pened.  Thousands  upon  thousands  of  Africans  were  marching  forward  and  pouring  into  the  city.  &quot;Christ!&quot;  Tony  Louw  had  said,  backing  away  from  Andrew's  office  window.  &quot;Christ!&quot;  he  said,  as  though  it  were  not  a  blank  wall  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  street  that  his  eyes  had  drawn  away  from.  &quot;If  what  they  say  is  true,  our  skin's  the  wrong  color  from  now  onward.&quot;  Miss  Siddons  had  come  running  " b"   down  the  corridor  from  Bill  Myburgh's  office.  &quot;They  say  they've  got  machine  guns  all  round  Parliament.&quot;  She  wrung  her  hands  till  her  knuckles  showed  white.  &quot;Oh,  but  they  won't  shoot!  Surely,  dear  God,  they  won't  shoot!  Not  after  Sharpeville,  they  wouldn't  dare  shoot!&quot;  &quot;The  whole  place  is  going  to  blow  up.&quot;  Bill  Myburgh's  omen  filled  the  office  even  be-  fore  he  had  entered  it.  The  volume  of  his  voice  seemed  to  make  the  windows  rattle.  Even  by  half  past  five  that  evening,  Andrew  had  not  seen  a  single  marcher.  Nor  was  there  much  traffic  along  the  de  Waal  Drive  that  eve-  ning.  Armored  cars  had  raced  along  it  and  turned  down  to-  ward  Nyanga  andLanga.  Except  for  them,  it  had  been  an  evening  like  any  other,  like  this  one.  Absently,  Andrew  turned  on  his  engine  again.  The  cars  were  crawling  slowly  for-  ward.  He  was  still  thinking  of  the  march.  Miles  of  human  beings.  Ten  thousand  heads,  ten  thousand  hearts,  twenty  thousand  arms,  twenty  thou-  sand  legs,  forty  thousand  limbs.  God!  How  could  one  add  up  such  figures,  how  conceive  of  them?  It  must  have  been  an  endless  procession-a  procession  that  had  to  be  clothed.  Ten  thousand  torn  shirts  needed,  ten  thousand  old  pairs  of  trousers.  Some  too  baggy,  as  Bill  My-  burgh's  had  been,  some  too  tight,  as  his  used  to  be.  Nothing  fitting  properly.  Some  feet  in  shoes,  some  feet  bare.  The  contents  of  thousands  of  cedarwood  chests.  Layers  and  layers-of  clothes  out  of  the  cedarwood  chest  in  the  hall.  Lay-  ers  of  his  things  that  had  lain  there,  pieces  of  him  from  over  the  years.  The  car  behind  him  hooted.  The  car  behind  that  one  hooted.  He  had  come  to  the  intersection.  A  traffic  policeman  stood  directly  in  front  of  him,  waving  his  arms  like  a  windmill.  Andrew  looked  at  him,  his  mind  still  on  the  march  that  he  had  not  seen.  The  contents  of  thou-  sands  of  cedarwood  chests!  It  had  been  a  procession  of  ghosts.  Ten  thousand  shirts  without  arms  in  them,  without  heads  above  them.  Ten  thousand  trou-  sers  without  feet  below  them.  Yet  the  procession  had  moved,  had  come  up  the  arterial  road,  right  to  this  intersection,  rustling  into  the  de  Waal  Drive.  Andrew  started  suddenly.  The  traf-  fic  policeman  had  his  hands  on  his  hips. A  long  line  of  cars  was  hooting  im-  patiently  behind  the  [REDACTED].  What  the  hell  did  they  all  want  from  him?  Did  they  expect  him  to  bash  headlong  into  the  procession  of  marchers?  He  put  the  [REDACTED]  in  gear  and  shot  forward.  Some  time  later,  when  he  was  well  beyond  the  intersection,  Andrew  felt  a  tremendous  relief.  He  always  did  feel  relieved,  hethought,  once  he  was  out  of  that  traffic.  He  shifted  more  easily  in  his  seat.  A  few  moments  later,  he  turned  down  [REDACTED]  Road.  Home,  he  thought  thankfully.  S  he  expected,  the  gramophone  was  playing.  He  heard  it  as  he  drove  the  car  along  the  driveway  to  the  ga-  rage.  He  parked  the  [REDACTED]  and  climbed  out  of  it.  Oh,  my  ol'  man's  a  dustman,  'e  wears  a  dustman's  'at...  Andrew  closed  the  garage  door  and  stood  facing  his  own  garden.  Every  leaf,  every  flower,  every  blade  of  grass,  to-  gether  with  their  long  multiplicity  of  evening  shadows,  seemed  to  be  waving,  as  if  in  some  conspiracy  of  confusion.  Even  the  vulgar  beat  of  the  music  had  an  oracular  sound  this  evening,  as  though  it  contained  some  rhythm  of  his  own  future.  The  record  stopped,  but  at  once  resumed;  David  was  playing  it  all  over  again.  Andrew  found  that  by  a  process  of  shortening  the  paces  of  his  long  legs,  by  stepping  over,  and  not  on,  the  lines  of  the  cement  slabs  that  paved  the  stoep,  he  could  reach  his  own  front  door  in  a  tempo  controlled  by  his  own  will  and  not  by  anything  coming  out  of  that  Pandora's  box  of  a  gramophone.  But  if  the  coordination  between  his  mind  and  his  legs  was  clear,  his  hand,  unable  to  resist  the  vaudeville  air,  was  lifted  by  it  and  slapped  on  the  door  handle  dead  on  the  beat  of  the  word  &quot;flat.&quot;  ...e  wears  gorblimey  trousers,  5e  lives  |  .  An'  'e  lives  in  a  council  flat.  He  opened  the  frontdoor.  He  walked  up  to  the  cedarwood  chest.  He  put  his  hat  carefully  down  between  the  bow!  of  flowers  and  the  cat.  It  seemed  just  the  other  day  that  he  used  to  fling  open  his  front  door,  pitch  his  hat,  and  toss  down  a  couple  of  office  files,  a  library  book  or  two,  a  packet  of  fruit.  How  confident  he  had  been!  In  those  days,  it  never  occurred  to  him  that  he  might  knock  over  Eileen's  fowers.  He  used  to  fling  his  things  aboutwith  all  the  abandon  of  a  sunburned  traveller  tossing  deck  quoits."