 b"WHEN  I  was  growing  up  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  in  the  early  years  of  this  century,  it  was  clear  to  me  that  I  had  been  born  into  a  peripatetic  family.  The  downstairs  hall  in  our  house  at  2805  P  Street,  in  Georgetown,  and  later  in  our  house  at  2071  Park  Road,  in  the  Mount  Pleas-  ant  section  of  [REDACTED],  was  fre-  quently  cluttered  with  strange  leather  and  straw  valises  and  wicker  baskets  be-  longing  to  uncles  and  aunts  and  cousins,  and  other  connections  of  the  family,  who  were  on  the  go  and  had  found  it  convenient  to  stop  off  at  [REDACTED],  see  all  the  sights,  come  to  Sunday  dinner  with  us,  and  sometimes  stay  over  for  a  few  days  before  taking  to  the  road  again.  Since  the  vast  majority  ofthese  relatives  were  Presbyterian  clergymen  and  their  wives  and  children,  I  used  to  imagine  it  was  some  fundamental  unwillingness  on  the  part  of  men  in  that  line  of  work  to  pick  out  some  town  or  city  and  stay  there  that  caused  this  unconscionable  amount  of  shifting  around  in  ecclesiasti-  cal  circles.  On  Sundays,  our  dinner  table  was  always  stretched  out  to  its  full  length,  all  the  extra  leaves  having  been  inserted  before  churchtime  by  Miss  [REDACTED],  our  Scottish  housekeeper,  assisted  byone  of  my  two  older  brothers  or  my  young  sister  or  me.  I  felt  myself  fortunate  if  I  got  a  drumstick,  and  not  a  neck,  from  the  pair  of  pullets  Miss  [REDACTED]  had  cut  up  and  fried,  or  the  big  hen  she'd  stuffed  and  roast,  ed.  When  there  weren't  enough  rooms  available  in  our  house  for  the  mi-  grating  parsons,  my  mother  invoked  stand-  ing  arrangements  with  our  neighbors  in  the  same  block,  and  these  neighbors  often  found  their  spare  rooms  jammed  with  footloose  ministers  of  the  gospel  and  their  wives  and  progeny,  but  the  travel-  lers  had  their  meals  at  our  house  just  the  same.  Many  of  these  pere-  grinations  actually  did  have  something  to  do  with  the  nature  of  the  work  the  clergymen  were  engaged  in.  A  clergyman  was  always  hoping  to  be  called  to  a  bigger  church  than  the  one  he  was  preach-  ing  at,  or  even  to  a  church  of  the  same  size  in  a  community  he  thought  he  might  like  better  than  the  one  he  was  in.  A  con-  gregation  was  at  the  same  time  hoping  to  be  able  to  communicate  a  call  to  some  known  or  unknown  clergyman  who  might  somehow  appeal  to  it  more  than  the  one  it  had.  And,  when  I  was  a  boy,  I  used  to  wonder  how  my  clergy-  man  uncles  and  cousins  raised  the  mon-  ey  to  meet  their  travelling  expenses,  which,  I  thought,  must  be  considerable  even  when  theyrode  in  day  coaches.  In  fact,  when  I  was  going  through  a  period  of  skepticism,  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  I  sometimes  wondered  if  the  impecunious  clergymen  had  by  any  chance  been  overwhelmed  by  tempta-  tion  and  the  need  for  travelling  ex-  penses  and  had  made  unauthorized  use  of  those  piles  of  pennies,  nickels,  dimes,  quarters,  half  dollars,  and  sometimes  whole  dollars  that  were  placed  in  plates  on  a  table  in  front  of  the  pulpit  by  the  elders  of  Presbyterian  churches  every  Sunday  morning  and  evening,  and  ev-  ery  Wednesday  evening  at  prayer  meet-  ing.  Investigating  this  seductive  theory,  I  learned  that  the  organizational  setup  of  the  Presbyterian  Church  had  been  worked  out  by  its  Scottish  founders  in  a  way  that  made  such  a  thing  next  to  impossible.  The  money  was  always  counted  and  recounted  by  a  group  of  businessman  elders  in  a  back  room  of   the  church  after  the  service,  while  the  preacher  looked  on,  and  it  was  then  tak-  en  out  of  his  sight  by  the  elders  and  deposited  in  a  bank  account  to  which  he  had  no  access.  His  salary  was  paid  by  check  out  of  this  account,  and  the  check  required  the  signatures  of  two  and  sometimes  three  elders  or  trustees.  Church  disbursements  such  as  money  for  charities  and  the  Communion  wine  or  grape  juice  were  also  paid  by  check.  As  far  as  I  could  see,  the  system  was  foolproof.  I  have  at  last  come  to  the  conclusion  that  all  those  Presbyterians  simply  liked  to  travel,  and  that  the  way  they  went  from  one  place  to  another  was  what  en-  abled  them  to  indulge  themselves.  That  serious-minded  prophet  of  doom  Mr.  Vance  Packard,  in  his  popularpseudo-  sociological  studies,  such  as  &quot;The  Status  Seekers,&quot;  keeps  harping  lugubriously  on  the  American  custom  of  moving  about.  Since  I1  have  never  entirely  relinquished  the  early  impression  I  received  that  just  about  everybody  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  is  a  connection  of  mine  by  mar-  riage,  if  not  by  blood,  I  resent  Mr.  Packard's  assertion  that  Americans  move  from  house  to  house  andfrom  one  community  to  another  merely  in  order  to  keep  up  with  the  Joneses  in  their  search  for  higher  status.  It  is  my  opinion  that  all  these  millionsof  present-day  cousins  and  connections  of  mine,  like  the  clergymen  of  my  boy-  hood,enjoy  peregrination  for  its  own  " b"sake.  The  love  of  travel  is,  after  all,  |_  deep  in  the  blood  of  every  one  of  them.  Their  ancestors  had  to  travel  in  order  to  get  over  here  in  the  first  place,  they  kept  on  travelling  byone  means  or  an-  other  in  order  to  make  the  country  what  it  was  when  I  was  aboy,  and  they  go  right  on  with  it  in  order  to  make  the  country  what  it  is  today.  NEVER  went  on  any  railroad  trips  with  any  of  my  uncles  or  aunts  or  cousins,  but  the  trips  I  made  with  my  own  family  to  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED],  where  we  often  went  in  the  summer  to  visit  my  Uncle  Addison  and  Aunt  Em,  and  to  [REDACTED]  Beach,  and  finally  to  Nantucket,  where  we  spent  several  sum-  mers,  must  have  been  similar  in  nature  to  the  trips  all  the  related  families  were  making  in  those  days.  My  mother,  who  accompanied  my  father  on  his  own  trips  whenever  she  could,  was  as  familiar  with  the  ins  and  outs  of  railroading  as  the  information  clerks  at  Grand  Central  Terminal  are  today-and  the  railway  system  was  a  whole  lot  more  compli-  cated  in  those  days,  because  there  were  a  great  many  more  railroads.  One  had  to  change  and  change  again.  The  adventuresome  attitude  my  mother  had  toward  travelling  was  dem-  onstrated  to  us  all  when  she  first  de-  cided,  after  conferences  with  my  father,  that  Nantucket  would  be  a  good  place  to  go  for  a  summer  as  a  change  from  [REDACTED]  Beach  or  [REDACTED].  To  reach  [REDACTED]  Beach,  all  we  had  to  do  was  get  aboard  a  Potomac  River  steamboat  of  the  Old  Bay  Line,  go  to  Norfolk,  and  get  on  a  train  of  the  Norfolk  Southern  Railroad.  To  go  to  [REDACTED],  we  start-  ed  off  from  [REDACTED]  at  7:35  P.M.,  taking  the  Baltimore  &amp;  [REDACTED]  to  Mar-  tinsburg,  where  we  spent  the  night  with  \xc2\xb0  cousins,  and  boarded  another  B.  &amp;  O.  train  back  to  Shenandoah  Junction,  changing  there  to  the  Norfolk  &amp;  West-  ern  to  Buena  Vista,  where  we  changed  to  the  Chesapeake  &amp;  [REDACTED],  and  puffed  into  the  resting  place  of  Robert  E.  Lee  in  time  for  a  late  supper  at  Uncle  Addi-  son's.  There  was  a  simpler  way  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  from  [REDACTED],  but  my  mother  liked  this  one  because  she  thought  the  scenery  was  superior.  The  only  cash  that  had  to  be  expended  on  such  a  trip  was  the  railway  fare,  which  was  $5.12  from  [REDACTED]  to  Lex-  ington  for  an  adult,  $2.56  for  children  between  the  ages  of  six  and  twelve,  and  free  for  children  under  that.  We  travelled  heavy,  rather  than  B0.  Nb  08  light.  Two  or  three  trunks  were  called  for  at  the  house  by  the  express  company,  checked  straight  through  to  [REDACTED],  f;  Cbs  fees  and  checked  up  on  at  each  change  of" b" trains  by  my  mother,  while  my  father  got  our  milk  jugs  refilled  at  the  house  of  one  cousin  or  another  during  the  leisurely  waits  between  trains.  My  two  older  brothers  carried  the  valises,  my  mother  and  Miss  [REDACTED]  carried  the  wicker  baskets  of  fried  chicken,  devilled  eggs,  potato  salad,  beaten  bis-  cuits,  pies  and  cakes,  and  jars  of  pre-  serves  that  Miss  [REDACTED]  had  prepared  the  day  before,  and  my  sister  and  I  car-  ried  smaller  bundles  containing  woollen  yarn  for  Aunt  Em  that  Mother  had  charged  at  Woodward  &amp;  Lothrop's,  fresh  Greek  pamphlets  that  my  father  had  picked  up  for  Uncle  Addison-who  was  a  professor  of  Greek  and  a  Pres-  byterian  elder  but  a  non-clergyman--  from  other  professors  of  Greek  on  his  travels,  and  reading  matter  for  us  all,  such  as  &quot;Pilgrim's  Progress.&quot;  We  always  got  to  Union  Station  in  plenty  of  time  to  be  near  the  head  of  the  line  waiting  for  the  gates  to  open,  and  would  move  in  a  quick-stepping  body  in  order  toseize  possession  of  four  seats  in  a  day  coach-preferably  the  end  car,  so  my  father  could  stand  on  the  rear  platform  and  smoke  a  cigar  while  he  watched  the  tracks  recede  in  the  dis-  tance.  'The  backs  of  two  of  the  seats  could  be  reversed,  so  that  the  seven  of  us  sat  in  two  cozy  boothlike  compart-  ments,  with  the  wicker  baskets  and  milk  jugs  ready  at  hand  and  the  valises  on  the  baggage  racks  overhead.  There  was  nothing  to  it.  But  for  my  mother  to  pick  out  the  island  of  Nantucket,  off  the  coast  of  [REDACTED],  as  a  vacation  spot  for  a  family  moored  in  [REDACTED]  was  am-  bitious  even  for  her  practiced  and  travel-  loving  self.  To  get  to  Nantucket,  we  took  the  9  a.m.  Interstate  Special  of  the  Baltimore  &amp;  [REDACTED]  Railroad  at  Union  Station,  after  getting  there  by  trolley  car  with  a  change  at  Dupont  Circle.  (My  mother  preferred  the  B.  &amp;  O.  to  the  [REDACTED],  because  she  liked  the  sound  of  its  name.)  At  Jersey  City,  we  disembarked  at  2:13  p.m.,  if  the  train  was  on  time.  We  then  got  aboard  a  ferryboat,  either  the  Cranford  or  the  Bound  Brook,  of  the  Jersey  Central  Railroad,  depending  on  which  one  of  the  two  was  docked  at  the  Jersey  side  of  the  [REDACTED],  and  got  off  it  at  Liberty  Street,  in  lower  [REDACTED].  From  there,  we  took  any  number  of  differ-  ent  trolley  cars  across556e6974656420537461746573  by  way  of  the  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  walked  four  or  five  blocks  to  the  brownstone  home  of  my  Great-Uncle  St.  Clair  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  where  free  over-  night  accommodations  were  to  be  had.  Early  next  morning,  we  recrossed  [REDACTED],  changed  streetcars  here" b"and  there,  and  reached  Grand  Central  Station  in  time  to  be  well  at  the  head  of  the  line  waiting  for  the  10  a.m.  train  of  the  New  Haven,  which  landed  us  in  [REDACTED]  at  3:10  p.m.  There  we  went  by  trolley  car  to  the  home  of  the  Rev-  erend  Dr,  Courtlandt  McLaughlin,  a  556e6974656420537461746573n  who  had  wandered  around  cheerfully  until  he  wound  up  running  a  Presbyterian  church  in  New  England.  There  was  plenty  of  room  for  us  at  this  cousin's  house,  provided  I  slept  in  the  same  bed  with  my  two  brothers,  and  my  sister  and  Miss  [REDACTED]  slept  together  in  the  bed  vacated  by  Dr.  McLaughlin's  eldest  daughter,  who  doubled  up  with  her  two  small  brothers  on  the  third  floor  rear.  In  the  morning,  having  replenished  the  empty  wicker  baskets  with  stuff  Miss  [REDACTED]  had  whipped  up  in  the  McLaughlins'  kitchen  after  supper  the  night  before,  and  with  fresh  milk  in  the  milk  jugs,  we  set  out  for  the  Knee-  land  Street  Station,  arriving  there  in  time  to  catch  the  7:35  a.m.  of  the  Old  Colony  Railroad  for  Woods  Hole.  At  Woods  Hole  we  got  out,  refilled  the  milk  jugs  and  checked  upon  the  trunks,  and  stepped  aboard  the  Sankaty  of  the  New  Bedford,  Martha'sVineyard  &amp;  Nantucket  Steamboat  Co.,  which  got  us  to  Nantucket  at  four  that  afternoon.  There,  neither  trolley  cars  nor  auto-  mobiles  were  countenanced  by  the  wise  inhabitants,  but  we  could  rent  a  two-  horse  surrey  to  take  us  and  the  hand  baggage  to  Sconset,  on  the  other  end  of  the  island,  and  a  one-horse  express  wagon  to  take  the  trunks,  The  first  summer  our  impressive  car-  avan  made  the  journey  to  Nantucket,  my  sister  and  I  were  allowed  to  take  along  our  two  Belgian  hares,  Buck  and  Mollie.  My  mother  stood  up  to  the  wall  telephone  in  the  Georgetown  house  andhad  a  prolonged  conversa-  tion  with  the  B.  &amp;  O.  about  Buck  and  Mollie.  The  railroad  was  adamant.  The  rabbits'  cage  couldn't  be  carried  into  the  day  coach.  It  had  to  be  sent  by  express.  My  mother  gave  in,  but  she  wrote  out  explicit  instructions  forthe  baggage-car  attendants  on  a  large  cardboard  sign,  which  she  glued  to  thetop  of  Buck's  and  Mollie's  cage,  concerning  the  feed-  ing  and  watering  of  Buck  and  Mollie  en  route.  Next  to  the  spoken  word,  she  enjoyed  the  written,  of  any  sort,  the  most,  and  she  went  to  work  on  Buck's  and  Mollie's  sign  with  a  flourish.  &quot;TO  THE  BAGGAGEMEXN,&quot;  she  printed  with  pen  and  ink.  &quot;THE  TOP  OF  THIS  HOMEMADE  RABBIT  CAGE  IS  SE-  CURELY  FASTENED  ON  THE  OUTSIDE  WITH  A  HOOK.  SIMPLY  LIFT  OFF  THE  HOOK  AND  RAISE  THE  TOP,  BE-" b"ING  CAREFUL  NOT  TOFRIGHTEN  THE  TWO  RABBITS,  WHICH  MIGHT  CAUSE  THEM  TO  JUMP  OUT  AND  ES-  CAPE.  THEY  ARE  ORDINARILY  QUITE  FRIENDLY  AND  DOCILE.  ON  THE  FLOOR  OF  THE  CAGE  YOU  WILL  FIND  A  GUNNY  SACK  WHICH  IS  SECURELY  TIED  WITH  TWINE  IN  A  BOWKNOT.  SIMPLY  UNTIE  THE  BOWKNOT  AND  YOU  WILL  FIND  THAT  THE  GUNNY  SACK  IS  FILLED  WITH  OATS,  IF  YOU  WILLFEED  THE  RABBITS  ONE  GEN-  EROUS  HANDFUL  OF  OATS  APIECE  THREE  TIMES  EVERY  TWENTY-FOUR  HOURS  AND  FILL  THEIR  TIN  CUP  WITH  WATER  AT  SIMILAR  INTER-  VALS  THE  LITTLE  CHIL43616e616461EN  WHO  OWN  THESE  RABBITS  WILL  BE  FOR-  EVER  GRATEFUL  AND  GOD  WILL  BLESS  YOU.  AFTER  EACH  FEEDING,  THE  GUNNY  SACK  SHOULD  BE  SE-  CURELY  FASTENED  ONCE  MORE  WITH  THE  TWINE.  THIS  IS  TO  PRE-  VENT  THE  RABBITS  FROM  EATING  ALL  THE  OATS  AT  ONE  TIME,  WHICH  WOULD  CAUSE  THEIR  ABDOMENS  TO  SWELL  AND  WOULD  PERHAPS  PROVE  FATAL.  THEIR  NAMES  ARE  BUCK  AND  MOLLIE.  GRATEFULLY  YOURS,  RUTH  S.  McKELWAY  AND  THE  REV.  [REDACTED].  A.  J.  MeKELWAY.&quot;  BUCK  and  Mollie  arrived  at  Nan-  tucket  two  days  after  we  did,  well  fed  and  not  thirsty,  and  on  the  way  they'd  had  nine  little  ones-an  event  that  even  my  mother  hadn't  made  pro-  vision  for.  The  bag  of  oats  was  three-  quarters  empty,  Buck  and  Mollie  were  nibbling  shredded  lettuce  that  had  been  placed  on  the  floor  of  the  cage  by  heav-  en-bound  baggagemen,  and  Mollie  her-  self  had  provided  milk  for  the  little  ones.  And  even  on  Nantucket  there  were  incursions  of  other  ecclesiastical  no-  mads.  Cousin  Frank  Rosebro,  who  had  caused  a  sensation  in  the  family  by  becoming  an  Episcopalian  priest,  found  a  chapel  up  there  in  need  of  his  services,  and  he  stayed  with  us.  Aunt  Fanny  and  Uncle  John,  his  parents,  arrived,  in  time,  to  be  near  the  wayward  Frank,  and  they  stayed  with  us,  too,  but  de-  clined  to  go  to  his  chapel  to  see  him  con-  duct  the  un-Presbyterian  High  Church  rites  with  his  collar  on  backward. "