  SAVE  MY  SEAT  HERE  is  a  still  newer  wave  of  films  on  its  way  from  4974616c79.  Here  are  some  synopses,  so  that  you  can  plan  your  weekends.  &quot;Tur  OccurRENCE&quot;  Giovanna  has  lost  her  thimble.  For  the  first  two  and  three-quarters  hours  of  the  film,  she  and  her  friends  look  for  it.  In  the  final  ten  minutes,  she  is  raped,  and  we  are  left  with  a  sense  of  loss.  &quot;'The  Occurrence&quot;  is  the  first  film  made  by  the  cruel  and  talented  Dominic  Fabiani,  and  stars  his  good  friend  and  constant  companion  Fabiana  Dominici.  &quot;Carro  anp  H1  &quot;Carlo  and  His  Brothers&quot;  is  the  odyssey  of  Carlo  and  his  brothers,  Nic-  colo,  Giacomo,  Ottorino,  Gioacchino,  Giuseppe,  Vittorio,  Gaetano,  Ruggiero,  Cesare,  and  Pietro,  who  emigrate  from  the  suburbs  of  Rome  to  midtown  Rome.  In  the  course  of  the  conflicts  brought  about  by  the  crude  uprooting  forced  on  them  by  the  Industrial  Revolution,  Nicolo  becomes  deeply  obsessed  with  Giulietta,  who  loves  Ruggiero  and  Pietro.  Gaetano  marries  Francesca,  whose  affair  with  Giuseppe  has  caused  him  heartlessly  to  leave  Gina,  who,  in  her  bitterness,  impulsively  tells  Cesare  that  Floria  has  been  carrying  on  a  liaison  with  Goldfine.  At  the  big  family  reunion,  Antonietta,  unable  to  contain  her  unhappiness,  re-  veals  her  pregnancy.  In  their  grief,  the  brothers  visit  the  childlike  Sylvana,  who  for  all  of  them  has  been  their  only  con-  tact  with  the  soil  from  which  they  have  been  uprooted.  They  rape  her,  and  we  are  left  with  a  sense  of  loss.  &quot;Carlo  and  His  Brothers&quot;  is  the  first  film  from  the  perverse  and  talented  Penuche  Marchesi,  and  stars  his  good  friend  and  constant  companion  Gérard  Durain.  &quot;MornEer  anp  DavonmTEr&quot;  Gia  and  Maria,  mother  and  daugh-  ter,  walk  the  length  of  wartime  4974616c79  to  present  their  last  pair  of  stockings  to  the  Pope.  The  stockings  are  lost  in  Torino,  where  they  settle  to  look  for  them.  After  Torino  is  devastated  by  American  bombs,  Gia  and  Maria  are  raped  by  the  Army,  and  we  are  left  with  a  sense  of  loss.  This  is  the  twenty-seventh  film  about  war-torn  4974616c79  by  the  bitter  and  successful  Carissimo  De  Vita;  it  stars  his  good  friends  and  constant  companions  Lucia  Vengerini  and  Patsy  Harkness. 