 b"Mrs.  WentwortH  waited  until  M  the  maid  had  driven  off  in  the  Pontiac  station  wagon  to  the  Englewood  shopping  center  before  she  entered  her  husband's  den  in  the  base-  ment,  twirled  with  unhesitating  fingers  the  dials  of  his  safe,  took  out  of  it  the  clothbound  bookkeeper'sledger  he  used  as  ajournal,  and  sat  down  in  his  Barca-  Lounger  by  the  window  to  look  over  what  he  had  written  the  night  before.  &quot;I  am  jibba  furlong  khamic  re  Nosbig&quot;  was  the  opening  sentence  under  the  date  of  November  15,  1961,  but  she  had  long  ago  broken  down  what  Wentworth  be-  lieved  to  be  his  secret  code.  Although  it  was  considerably  more  ingenious  than  the  mere  spelling  backward  of  a  proper  name  would  seem  to  indicate,  she  un-  tangled  it  as  easily  as  if  it  had  been  written  in  thepig  Latin  of  her  school  days  in  [REDACTED].  Her  pale-blue  eyes  transmitted  to  her  brain  the  rather  lengthy  entry  Wentworth  had  made  after  his  return  from  a  two-day  trip  to  [REDACTED]:  \xe2\x80\x9cI  AM  again  deeply  worried  about  Gibson.  Although  he  had  only  one  bourbon-on-the-rocks  in  the  club  car  before  dinner  last  night  and  didn't  ask  for  an-  other  when  we  got  our  table  in  the  diner,  and  al-  though  he  bade  me  good  night  when  he  had  fin-  ished  his  postprandial  cigar-again  in  the  club  car,  where  he  declined  my  offer  of  a  liqueur-  and  went  to  his  draw-  ing  room,  saying  he  had  some  investment  data  in  his  briefcase  with  which  he  wished  to  read  himself  to  sleep,  his  behavior  on  the  Century  en  route  to  [REDACTED]  the  night  before  last,  I  must  confess,  was  unsettling  in  ways  that  even  now  I  find  more  unfathomable  than  otherwise.  To  what  causative  factor  other  than  Gibson's  behavior  can  I  assignthe  mood  that  enveloped  me  as  soon  as  I  locked  my-  self  into  my  roomette  last  night,  de-  lighted  to  be  alone,  in  spite  of  my  deep  affection  and  respect  for  Gibson,  and  yet  feeling  rather  edgy  and  wakeful  and,  to  be  candidwith  myself,  inordinately  optimistic  in  addition  to  being  deeply  worried?  On  the  evening  before  that-  with  the  luncheon  conference  ahead  of  us  and  Gibson's  odd  monologue  con-  Sue     cerning  his  first  marriage  very  much  on  my  mind-I  resolutely  put  Gibson's  private  affairs  out  of  my  mind  and  con-  tinued  to  do  so  all  during  the  next  day,  knowing  I  must  concentrate  on  the  delicate  maneuvers  having  to  do  with  the  settling  of  the  Johnston  estate,  for  which,  after  all,  we  were  making  that  special  trip  to  [REDACTED].  It  was  only  when  that  day  was  successfully  ended,  and  yet  another  victory  for  Fidelity-  Nassau  had  been  chalked  up-and  Gib-  son,  as  I  have  recorded,  had  retired  early,  having  evidently  no  desire  to  un-  burden  himself  as  he  had  the  night  be-  fore,  after  those  three  bourbons  in  the  club  car,  another  in  the  diner,  and  still  another  in  his  drawing  room  toward  the  conclusion  of  that  strange  outburst-  that  I  allowed  myself  to  put  my  whole  intellect  once  again  on  the  problem  of  Gibson  himself.  &quot;And  it  was  then,  when  I  had  hardly  commenced  to  sort  out  the  facts  before  me  concerning  Gibson's  recent  behav-  ior,  and  to  arrange  them  in  my  mind  in  an  orderly  fashion  so  as  to  reduce  to  a  minimum  their  unsettling  effect  on  me,  that  the  structure  of  that  little  bank  building-a  bank  whose  name  I  do  not  even  know,  even  as  I  am  still  unaware  of  the  name  of  the  town  in  which  itis  located-flashed  before  my  eyes  as  I  sat  gazing  out  the  window  of  my  roomette.  &quot;'That  fleeting  image  of  that  unknown  bank,  in  a  town  whose  name  also  remains  unknown  to  me,  almost  instantly  was  carried  out  of  my  line  of  vision  again,  and  I  was  enveloped  sudden-  ly,  asI  looked  out  on  the  dark  landscape,  by  thoughts  not  of  Gibson's  private  affairs  but  of  the  rooms  on  the  seventh  floor  of  our  building  on  lower  [REDACTED]-the  rooms  occupied  by  Fidelity-Nassau's  trust  department.  Only  by  an  act  of  intellectual  will  power  was  I  able  to  put  these  thoughts  aside  and  bring  my  faculties  to  bear  upon  the  problem  Gibson  himself  represents.  Naturally,  I  have  been  aware  for  fifteen  years,  ever  since  I  went  to  work  in  the  trust  department  of  Fidelity-Nassau,  that  he  married  at  the  age  of  twenty,  when  he  was  scarcely  old  enough  to  shave  himself,  and  that  the  marriage  ended  less  than  three  years  later,  when  " b"the  woman  obtained  an  absolute  divorce  in  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  State  of  New  York.  Such  a  decree  is  granted  in  this  state  only  when  adultery  is  charged  and  proven  by  the  party  seeking  the  de-  cree.  And  I  certainly  did  not  expect  that  the  chief  trust  officer  of  Fidelity-Nas-  sau-an  executive  vice-president  on  an  important  mission  to  [REDACTED]  with  his  first  assistant-would  drink  not  two  but  four  bourbons-on-the-rocks  before  dinner  and  then,  closeted  with  me  in  his  drawing  room  after  dinner,  come  forth  with  this  interminable  monologue.  In  thecourse  of  it,  he  painted  his  much-  better-left-unmentioned  first  marriage  as  something  he  is  not  only  not  ashamed  of  but  looks  back  on  with  rankly  adoles-  cent  if  not  downright  poetical  or  roman-  tic  nostalgia.  To  be  candid  with  myself,  I  found  what  he  said  about  it  affecting  as  well  as  unsettling.  &quot;I  have  always  been  loyal  to  Gib-  son-to  Old  Gibby,  as  the  youngsters  at  the  bank  call  him  behind  his  back-and  my  affection  for  him  is  such  that  I  think  I  can  say  that  I  love  Gibson,  if  that  term  can  be  applied  to  the  feeling  a  man  near-  ing  forty  possesses  for  a  man  who  will  be  fifty-five  on  his  next  birthday  and  who  is  unquestionably  one  of  the  fin-  est  men  Fidelity-Nassau  will  ever  have  as  chief  executive  of  its  trust  depart-  ment.  But  must  I  not  face  the  fact  that  Gibson  is  approaching-or  perhaps,  in-  deed,  has  already  arrived  at-what  might  be  termed  a  secondage  of  indis-  cretion,  when  he  sees  fit  to  confide  in  me  to  the  extent  he  confided  in  me  on  that  trip  to  [REDACTED]?  Naturally,  I  am  flat-  tered  by  the  fact  that  he  believes,  as  he  certainly  has  every  reason  to  do,  that  I  am  a  man  with  whom  his  confidences  are  safe  in  every  way,  but  I  must  not  permit  the  pleasurable  emotions  evoked  by  this  new  proof  of  his  trust  in  me  to  alter  the  incontrovertible  fact  that  a  man  in  Gibson's  high  position,  a  man  with  a  respectable  social  life  in  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  a  man  whose  altogether  charming  present  wife  is  a  credit  to  him  and  to  Fidelity-Nassau,  a  man  whose  oldest  daughter  is  at  Farmington  and  whose  son  is  entered  for  St.  Paul's  that  such  a  man  is  being  dangerously  and  immaturely  reckless  when  he  allows  himself  to  go  about  with  such  thoughts  ii  his  mind  concerning  this  unseemly  error  of  his  youthful  period.  He  made  absolutely  no  bones  about  expressing  them  to  me  in  that  drawing  room  the  night  before  last,  whenwe  were  en  route  to  [REDACTED].  Does  he  express  simi-  lar  or  identical  thoughts  to  other  men  in  addition  to  me?  Are  these  men  to  be  trusted  to  the  extent  that  I  am  to  be  " b" trusted?  What  would  the  full  Fidelity-  Nassau  board  of  directors  think  about  Gibson  if  they  knew  how  capable  Gib-  son  is  of  notonly  possessing  but  appear-  ing  to  be  proud  of  these  romantic  remi-  niscences  concerning  his  first  marriage?  &quot;Gibson  actually  suggested  to  me  the  following  morning  that  I  might  pass  along  to  the  younger  members  of  the  staff  under  me  the  fact  that  he  occa-  sionally  writes  down  his  true  feelings  about  certain  private  matters-writes  them  down  in  the  study  of  his  [REDACTED]  home  and  then  burns  up  what  he  has  written,  after  he  has  read  it  through  once.  'It  serves  to  clear  the  head,  he  said,  in  what  I  regret  to  say  was  a  light-  hearted  fashion.  And  we  were  at  that  moment  on  our  way  in  a  taxicab  to  at-  tend  the  important  conference  on  the  Johnston  estate!  He  had  written  down  his  thoughts  about  this  first  marriage  of  his  and  had,  to  be  sure,  torn  it  up  and  burned  it  in  the  fireplace  in  his  study  after  he  had  read  it  through  once,  and  yet  this  did  not  clear  his  head  sufficiently  to  prevent  him  from  blabbing  it  all  out  to  me  on  the  train  to  [REDACTED].  He  did  not,  of  course,  suggest  that  I  tell  the  people  on  my  staff  the  nature  of  the  subject  he  had  written  about  on  that  occasion,  and  he  is  acquainted  with  me  well  enough  to  know  that  I  would  re-  fuse  to  tell  the  members  of  my  staff  or  anybody  else  about  sucha  thing  even  if  he  ordered  me  to  do  so.  However,  there  is  surely  no  harm  in  passing  the  word  along  to  them,  as  Gibson  suggested  I  do,  to  the  effect  that  engaging  in  such  literary  practices,  more  or  less  insecret,  may  be  beneficial,  and  I  shall  do  that  in  my  own  way  and  in  my  own  good  time.  I  shall  certainly  not  divulge  to  them  that  I  keep  this  journal,  and  that  it  is  in  a  code  that  the  cleverest  men  in  the  Office  of  War  Information  in  World  War  II  would  find  impossible  to  decipher,  but  I  shall  tell  them  that  writing  out  their  thoughts,  not  only  on  private  mat-  ters  but  on  matters  having  to  do  with  their  problems  as  employees  of  Fidelity-  Nassau,  may  be  beneficial.  I  shall  say  that  Mr.  Gibson  believes  it  serves  to  straighten  out  the  mind-not  to  cleer  the  mind,  as  he  put  it.  And  I  am  sure  they  will  respond  to  my  implied  sug-  gestion  that  they  adopt  this  habit,  as  they  have  so  often  in  the  past  responded  to  the  many  constructive  suggestions  I  have  made  to  them,  based  on  my  expe-  rience  as  a  banker.  It  is  by  no  means  this  custom  of  Gibson's  per  se  that  I  am  inclined  to  criticize.  It  is  the  subject  on  which  he  chose  to  unburden  himself  to  me  in  the  privacy  of  that  Pullman  draw-  ing  room.  That  was  indiscreet  of  Gib-  " b"son,  and  it  causes  me  to  be  deeply  wor-  ried  about  him.  &quot;And  there  are  other  relatively  small  things  related  to  Gibson's  behavior  in  recent  years  that,  when  added  to  what  happened  on  the  train  to  [REDACTED],  in-  crease  the  concern  I  cannot  help  having  as  of  now.  He  should  not  have  pur-  chased  the  Thunderbird  in  1957.  True,  he  has  the  1961  Cadillac  that  he  pur-  chased  when  heturned  in  his  1960  Cadillac,  and  the  housekeeper  and  the  children  share  the  Ford  Galaxie  station  wagon.  But  Mrs.  Gibson  uses  the  Cadil-  lac  most  of  the  time  and  Gibson  has  taken  to  driving  the  Thunderbird  to  the  office  two  or  three  times  a  week  instead  of  boarding  the  Banker's  Special  from  [REDACTED]  to  Grand  Central  Station  and  coming  downtown  on  the  sub-  way,  as  does  Mr.  Babcock,  the  president  of  Fidelity-Nassau,  every  day  of  his  working  life.  The  thing  is  not  even  a  1961  Thunderbird,  which,with  its  seats  for  five  passengers,  comes  close  to  being  in  the  category  ofa  town  car.  It  is  a  1957  Thunderbird-a  black  con-  vertible  with  red  leather  upholstery  and  only  two  seats-and  he  makes  absolute-  ly  no  bones  about  telling  both  his  supe-  riorsat  the  bank  and  the  youngsters  in  the  trust  department  that  he  doesn't  care  for  the  late  model  Thunderbirds  but  prefers  the  1957  two-seater,  which,  when  you  come  right  down  to  it,  is  clearly  in  the  sports-car  category.  It  is  no  doubt  suitable  for  a  daytime  spin  in  [REDACTED],  but  it  is  not  suitable  for  trips  to  and  from  the  bank.  And  while  Mrs.  Gibson  may  laugh  about  the  mongrel  puppy  Gibson  purchased  from  the  Bide-a-Wee  people  after  the  boxer  passed  away  last  year,  I  am  sure  she  was  inwardly  as  critical  about  this  episode  as  I  was,  With  all  the  French  poodles  and  Labradors  and  Weimaraners  available  at  first-class  kennels  in  [REDACTED],  his  impulsive  decision  to  bring  home  that  mongrel  is  an  outright  proof  of  a  grow-  ing  tendency  toward  eccentricity  on  his  part.  It  is  one  of  the  many  small  but  im-  portant  matters  concerning  his  recent  behavior  that  I  have  in  mind,  and  that  I  have  set  down  elsewhere  in  this  journal.  &quot;When  my  own  dear  boy,  Alexander,  was  given  that  disreputable  chow  puppy  by  the  awning  salesman  last  spring,  I  persuaded  him  with  very  little  difficulty  to  let  me  turn  the  chow  over  to  the  Bergen  County  [REDACTED],  where  they  would  find  a  suitable  home  for  it,  and  to  let  me  give  him  the  boxer  puppy  I  made  haste  to  purchase  that  same  week  from  the  kennels  where  Mrs.  Gibson  had  originally  purchased  the  boxer  that " b"passed  on.  Such  little  episodes  can  easily  be  handled  in  a  constructive  way.  Mrs.  Wentworth  offered  some  opposi-  tion  to  this  procedure  of  mine,  but  like  the  good  wife  she  is  she  soon  saw  things  my  way,  and  the  boy,  as  can  hardly  be  denied,  is  certainly  devoted  to  the  boxer  now.  To  think  that  Alexander  has  only  eight  years  to  go  before  he  will  enter  Pomfret!  By  that  time,  I  have  hopes  that  Gibson  will  have  been  elevated  to  the  status  of  a  senior  vice-president,  and  nothing  should  prevent  me  from  suc-  ceeding  him  as  the  executive  vice-presi-  dent  in  charge  of  the  trust  department.  But  will  Gibson,  by  some  future  in-  discretion  or  by  too  many  outward  evidences  of  idiosyncratic  behavior,  upset  his  chances  for  further  advance-  ment  at  some  date  earlier  than  the  date  on  which  he  might  expect  to  step  into  his  rightful  place  as  a  senior  vice-  president?  &quot;It  is  all  very  well  for  an  individual  without  my  emotional  and  intellectual  equilibrium  to  say  that  I  would  be  wise  to  cease  worrying  about  Gibson's  future,  and  that  I  have  reasons  to  be  elated  by  my  own  prospects.  I  am  happy  to  assure  any  such  individual  that  I  am  not  the  sort  of  bank  official  who  allows  himself  to  be  carried  away  by  such  unworthy  and  unstable  feelings.  As  I  was  able  to  repeat  to  myself  over  and  over  in  my  roomette  last  night-at  the  cost,  per-  haps,  of  an  hour's  sleep,  but  well  worth  it,  owing  to  the  calming  effect  of  my  cerebration-I  am  far  too  loyal  and  de-  [{,  voted  to  Gibson  to  sustain  any  fleeting  notions  having  to  do  with  a  sudden  downfall  on  his  part  at  the  very  height  of  his  career.  I  am  also  reassured  by  a  recognition  of  the  fact  that  Gibson  showed  no  outward  or  discernible  ef-  fects  from  his  overindulgence  en  route  to  [REDACTED],  and  that  along  with  the  un-  settling  effect  of  his  reminiscences  con-" b"cerning  his-and,  indeed,  his  centu-  ry's-early  twenties  there  was  also  an  element  that  suggested  the  basic  solidity  of  his  personality.  And  was  it  not  Mr.  Babcock  himself  who,  on  being  told  by  Gibson  in  my  own  presence  and  in  the  presence  ofothers  that  he,  Gibson,  had  come  to  work  in  the  Thunderbird  last  Friday,  suggested  with  sincere  enthusi-  asm  that  Gibson  give  him  a  lift  out  to  Ridgefield  at  the  end  of  the  day?  The  existence  of  the  mongrel,  as  well  as  many  other  relatively  small  matters  in  the  same  category,  which  I  have  hither-  to  recorded  in  this  journal,  must  be  con-  sidered  singly,  each  in  its  proper  per-  spective,  rather  than  disproportionately  and  as  a  collection  of  bits  of  evidence  of  the  kind  I  am  perhaps  too  ready  to  look  upon  with  misgivings.  &quot;If  Gibson  should  for  any  reason  re-  sign  his  present  position  at  the  bank  to-  morrow  or  next  month  or  next  year  or  even  the  year  after,  can  I  with  any  de-  gree  of  logic  or  common  sense  suppose  for  one  moment  that  anybody  but  Dod-  son  would  be  elected  by  the  board  to  fill  that  vacancy?  Dodson  is  in  line  for  an  executive  vice-presidency  at  present.  In  two  years'  time  he  will  either  have  obtained  this  promotion  and  stepped  into  Vandercook's  shoes  in  the  foreign  department,  when  Vandercook  retires  on  his  sixty-fifth  birthday,  or  he  will  have  decided  that  he  is  in  a  cul-de-sac  and  gone  to  [REDACTED],  as  both  Gibson  and  I  have  often  felt  he  ought  to  have  done  last  year,  for  his  own  good  and  for  the  good  of  Fidelity-Nassau.  But  at  present  I  cannot  deny  that  Dodson  is  the  only  possible  candidate  for  Gibson's  po-  sition  if  that  position  should  become  sud-  denly  vacant.  It  is  only  after  I  have  been  elected  a  full  vice-president,  in  three  or  possibly  four  years'  time,  and  we  have  left  New  Jersey  once  and  for  all  and  found  the  sort  of  house  we  want  in  [REDACTED],  that  I  will  be,  from  all  points  of  view,  the  incontestable  candidate  for  Gibson's  post  when  Gibson  is  elevated  to  the  senior  vice-presidency.  And  Gibson  cannot  expect  that  elevation  to  occur  until  five  years  from  now,  almost  to  the  day.  If  some  blatant  indiscretion  on  Gibson's  part  were  to  bring  about  his  unexpected  departure  from  the  bank  at  this  time,  or  even  a  year  and  a  half  from  the  present  date,  and  Dodson,  in  what  would  thus  amount  to  an  emergency,  were  called  in  to  take  his  place,  it  is  alto-  gether  possible  that  I  might  have  no  other  course  but  to  wait  another  eight  years  for  Dodson  to  retire  or  beelevated  toa  senior  vice-presidency.  Once  Dod-  son  was  in  Gibson's  shoes,  we  could  all  be  certain  that  [REDACTED]  would  lose  the " b"alluring  aspects  that  it  at  present  appears  to  have  for  him.  &quot;Yet  I  am  still  unsettled  by  Gibson's  recent  behavior,  in  spite  of  everything  I  have  put  down  here.  Were  I  not  thus  unsettled,  the  structure  of  that  little  bank  flashing  by  in  the  night  outside  the  window  of  my  roomette  when  I  should  have  been  asleep  last  night  would  not  keep  recurring  to  my  mind  as  bedtime  once  more  approaches,  here  in  my  base-  ment  den  in  Englewood.  &quot;It  was  a  snug  little  bank,  three  sto-  ries,  on  the  corner  of  what  must  have  been  the  main  street  of  that  town,  where  it  intersects  with  one  of  the  principal  streets,  a  block  or  so  from  the  railway  station.  I  saw  with  my  eyes  only  the  dim  outlines  of  the  structure  and  only  the  one  word,  'Bank,'  in  the  middle  of  a  sign  on  that  structure.  I  saw  neither  the  beginning  nor  the  end  of  that  sign.  So  that  I  took  in  only  the  'Bank'  there  in  the  middle  ofthe  sign,  in  the  light  from  the  street  lamps  that  shone  white  and  yellowish  in  the  town  whose  name  I  might  know  had  I  taken  in  the  words  that  went  before  and  after  that  one  word  'Bank.'  The  First  National  Bank  of  Little  Falls?  Herkimer?  Ful-  ton?  Oneida?  Those  are  some  of  the  names  on  the  timetable  I  obtained  from  the  conductor  long  before  breakfast  this  morning,  as  we  were  approach-  ing  [REDACTED]-the  timetable  that  shows  all  the  local  stops  between  there  and  [REDACTED].  I  could  take  a  plane  west-  ward  to  [REDACTED]  on  Friday  when  I  leave  the  office  and  then  get  onan  east-  bound  local  train  out  of  [REDACTED]  that  makes  all  those  stops,  but  in  all  probabili-  ty  I  wouldn't  recognize  the  town,  be-  cause  every  one  of  those  towns  has  a  little  bank  building  on  a  corner  not  far  from  the  railroad  station,  and  the  bank  that  flashed  in  and  out  of  my  line  of  vision  last  night  would  be  exactly  like  all  the  other  little  banks  in  all  the  other  little  towns  through  which  the  express  trains  slide,  almost  silently  but  very  rap-  idly,  in  the  hours  after  dinner  on  their  way  to  New  York.  And  in  any  case,  it  is  not  the  inside  of  that  bank  I  saw  in  the  eyes  of  my  mind  after  its  image  had  come  and  gone.  It  was  the  inside  of  the  trust  department  of  Fidelity-Nassau  in  downtown  [REDACTED].  I  saw  the  wall-to-wallcarpeting  and  the  wood-  burning  fireplace  that  Gibson  insisted  on  preserving  when  the  interior  of  our  building  was  remodelled  ten  yearsago.  I  saw  the  ranks  of  well-spaced  desks,  the  metal  ones  for  the  typists,  the  walnut  ones  for  the  assistant  treasurers,  Gib-  son's  mahogany  one  between  the  win-  dows  overlooking  [REDACTED].  I  saw  my" b"own  desk,  smaller  but  of  the  same  ma-  hogany-well  spaced,  in  its  own  par-  ticular  position  just  inside  the  brass  rail,  with  Gibson  on  my  left  and  my  staff  on  ||  my  right,  beginning  with  Garrett,  my  :[  first  assistant,  and  going  on  down  to-  ward  the  heavy  oak  doors  that  open  on  our  reception  room,  through  Carroll  '{  and  Hogan  and  Neilson,  Clarke  and  {}{  MacPherson,  Kuntz  and  Robinson,  and  |  Mrs.  Gilbertson  and  the  girls,  with  the  backs  of  their  glistening  heads  turned  toward  me.  &quot;It  is  bedtime  now  and  I  feel  less  un-  settled,  but  I  cannot  get  entirely  away  from  one  thing.  I  am  jibbe  furlong  khamic  re  Nosbig.&quot;  HEN  Mrs.  Wentworth  finished  reading  the  entry  in  Wentworth's  journal,  she  put  the  volume  back  in  his  '{  safe  and  twirled  the  dials,  locking  it.  Then  she  went  to  the  crimson  wall  '|  telephone  in  the  kitchen,  called  the  butcher  at  the  shopping  center,  and  told  him  to  tell  the  maid,  when  she  arrived,  that  Mrs.  Wentworth  had  changed  her  mind  about  the  fricassee  of  chicken.  She  told  the  butcher  to  send  her,  instead,  a  three-rib  roast  of  prime  beef  for  dinner  that  evening.  She  had  long  ago  discov-  ered  that  a  couple  of  generous  helpings  of  good  red  meat  tended  to  quiet  Went-  worth's  nerves  when  he  was  having  an  especially  arduous  time  making  his  way  through  the  dark  and  treacherous  breakers  of  ambition. "