 b"A BIT  of  verse  that  has  been  A  bothering  me  for  years  is  &quot;'The  world  is  so  full  of  a  number  of  things  I'm  sure  we  should  all  be  as  happy  as  kings.&quot;  I  had  always  thought  it  was  an  anonymous  jingle,  but  it  turns  out  to  be  by  Robert  Louis  Stevenson,  who  ought  to  have  known  better.  Any-  way,  it  seems  to  me  the  champion  non  sequiturof  all  time.  Even  in  his  day  the  trouble  with  the  world  was  that  there  were  too  many  things.  And  look  at  it  now.  Automobiles  are  certainly  things,  and  there  are  such  a  number  of  them  that  they  have  made  comfortable  transportation  on  the  high-  way  virtually  impossible,  and  have  had  the  side  effect  of  almost  killing  off  the  railroads,  which  are  comparatively  good  things.  At  the  same  time,  auto-  mobiles,  through  competition,  have  had  the  effect  of  adding  to  the  number  of  airplanes,  which  are  now  almost  as  suc-  cessful  as  automobiles  in  killing  off  people.  There  are  small  things,  examples  of  which  can  be  found  in  abundance  in  the  Times  Magazine.  Glasses  to  be  put  on  over  your  regular  glasses,  devices  for  getting  pickles  out  of  jars,  dinguses  that  break  up  ice  cubes  (which  wouldn't  have  been  necessary  before  the  invention  of  the  mechanical-icebox  thing),  pens  that  write  in  the  dark  and  through  butter,  gadgets  that  make  cream  out  of  butter  (which  would  still  be  cream  if  it  had  been  let  alone),  things  that  open  bottles  and  jars  that  should  not  be  man-  ufactured  soas  to  require  a  special  de-  vice  for  opening  them,  gimmicks  that  open  nuts  but  which  are  not  nutcrackers,  complicated  dingbats  that  cut  English  muffins  in  half.  (What's  wrong  with  a  sharp  knife?  I  always  use  it  with  suc-  cess.)  Wrappings  and  packagings  are  things  that  can  inducesuch  frustration  and  rage  as  to  unseat  the  mind,  and  that  sometimes,  in  the  process  of  opening  the  package,  involve  the  destruction  of  the  product  contained-to  say  nothing  of  torn  fingernails,  cut  hands,  and  a  tend-  ency  toward  felo-de-se.  Beer  cans  are  things,  as  any  New  Yorker  can  tell  you  on  a  summer  night  when  they  arebe-  ing  thrown  out  of  windows,  run  over  by  cars,  and  kicked  along  the  street  by  drunks  and  children,  who  are  not  things  but  who  aid  and  abet  them.  Consoli-  dated  Edison's  holes  in  the  street  are  things,  and  no  one  could  deny  that  there  are  a  number  of  them  or  that  they  don't  make  anybody  happy,  except  possibly  the  workmen  who  get  overtime  dig-  ging  them,  filling  them  in,  and  then" b"digging  them  again  two  days  later,  ad  infinitum.  ANOTHER  feature  of  this  all-time  non  sequitur  is  Stevenson's  prem-  ise  that  kings  are  happy.  They  aren't.  Dozens  of  books  are  published  every  year  showing  how  unhappy  the  crowned  heads  of  every  country  have  been  from  time  immemorial  and  how  many  have  been  put  to  death  by  their  sub-  jects.  I  can't  think  of  any  reigning  monarch  today  who  seems  happy,  unless  maybe  Rainier  of  Monaco,  and  I  guess  he's  a  prince  and  doesn't  count.  Also,  I've  seen  him  looking  pretty  glum  in  newsreels.  The  only  reasonably  happy  king  I  can  bring  to  mind  is  Edward  VII,  and  he  wasn't  happy  all  the  time,  by  a  long  shot.  I  have  been  tortured  by  trying  to  in-  vent  variants  of  the  verse,  but  I  haven't  accomplished  much.  &quot;The  world  is  so  full  of  a  number  of  dopes,/  I'm  sure  we  should  all  be  as  happy  as  popes.&quot;  &quot;The  world  is  so  full  of  a  number  of  simps/  I'm  sure  we  should  all  be  as  happy  as  chimps.&quot;  But  I'm  afraid  these  are  non  sequiturs,  too,  and  based  on  false  prem-  ises.  It  has  just  occurred  to  me  that  pos-  sibly  a  typographical  error  cropped  up  in  Stevenson  and  that  he  really  wrote  &quot;.  .  .  I'm  sure  we  should  all  be  u\xc2\xbb-  happy  as  kings.&quot;  "