 b"ONE  morning  this  past  summer,  I  saw  in  the  Times  the  obituary  of  an  eminent  banker,  Henry  P.  Davison.  I  read  it,  and  while  I  did  so  I  was  flooded  with  the  remembrance  of  some  things  that  happened  long  ago,  and  that  were  set  in  motion  by  the  death  (and  also  the  obituary)  of  another  Henry  P.  Davison-Henry  P.  Davison,  Sr.,  the  father  of  this  one.  I  never  knew  the  Davisons,  father  or  son,  or  any  of  their  kin  or  connections.  Still,  for  one  Sunday  afternoon  in  the  year  1922,  Henry  P.  Davison,  Sr.,  and  I  did  have  a  chance,  remote,  and-on  my  part-  reluctant  relationship.  In  1922,  I  lived  in  Buffalo  with  my  family-my  father,  my  aunt,  who  had  come  to  live  with  us  after  my  mother  died,  some  years  before,  and  my  two  younger  brothers.  Our  house  was  a  con-  ventional,  three-story  frame  one,  built,  I  guess,  around  1885,  that  had  fitful  outbursts  of  gingerbread  here  and  there  on  its  facade  and  a  stained-glass  window  on  the  second-story  landing  of  the  stair-  case.It  had  a  good-sized  back  yard,  at  the  far  end  of  which  was  a  stable,  built  to  house  two  carriage  horses,  that  had  been  converted  into  a  garage.  I  should  say  it  was  used  as  a  garage,  forthe  box  stalls,  mangers  and  all,  were  still  there,  with  lettered  wooden  plaques  saying  &quot;Schoolgirl&quot;  and  &quot;Sir  Dilt&quot;  over  their  separate  lintels,  as  were  the  carriage  room,  the  hayloft,  the  harness  room,  and  the  rest  of  it.  Even  the  huge  old  feedbox  was  still  in  place,  and  had  enough  residue  of  oats  and  bran  in  it  to  keep  the  mice  busy.  I  was  thirteen  that  year,  and  although  I  had  only  just  crossed  over  into  the  paleof  ado-  lescence,  I  already  had  symptoms  of  the  full  malaise-discontent,  a  moody  Byronism,  contempt  for  the  familiar  world  around  me,  and  an  ever-lessen-  ing  respect  for  the  world  of  my  eld-  ers  that  expressed  itself  in  not  always  covert  rebellion  and  a  tendency  to  get  into  jams.  These  characteristics  were  lumped  together  by  my  father,  on  occa-  sion,  in  the  word  &quot;cheekiness.&quot;  The  anarchic  tensions  that  were  pull-  ing  and  pushing  within  me  were  abetted,  somewhat  fortuitously,  by  the  monthly  intrusion  in  our  house  of  a  magazine  that  really  had  no  business  there.  'This  was  the  Dial,  at  that  time  the  foremost  peri-  odical  devoted  to  intransigence  in  the  arts  and  to  the  avant-garde  in  general,  and  we  were  getting  it  because  my  father  had  taken  out  a  subscription  at  the  beginning  of  the  year  under  a  mis-  apprehension  (I  found  out  later)  about  its  editorial  content.  God  knows  what  he  thought  he  was  getting;  he  was  an  investment  banker,  whose  literary  tastes  ran  to  things  like  the  writings  of  Theo-  dore  Roosevelt,  practically  anything  written  about  the  first  Napoleon  (my  father  was  a  short  man  ),  and  the  stories  of  Arthur  Train,  O.  Henry,  and  Clar-  ence  Budington  Kelland.  The  one  thing  in  the  world  my  father  was  not  was  avant-garde.  After  he  had  glanced  through  the  first  issue  of  the  Dial  to  ar-  rive,  he  never  opened  another.  I  did.  Each  month,  I  would  watch  for  its  brown  paper  wrapper  among  the  numer-  ous  other  magazines  we  took,  snatch  it  off  the  hall  table,  and  carry  it  to  my  room.  The  Dial  was  a  revelation  to  me.  I  devoured,  indiscriminately,  the  poems  of  E.  E.  Cummings,  William  Carlos  Wil-  liams,  Ezra  Pound,  and  T.  S.  Eliot,  and  the  prose  of  Thomas  Mann  and  D.  H.  Lawrence,  and  I  wholeheartedly  ad-  mired  the  pictures,  mostly  drawings,  by  Picasso,  Matisse,  Pascin,  and,  again,  \xc2\xa3.  E.  Cummings,  many  of  which  I  cut  out  and  stuck  on  the  walls  of  my  room.  (I  had  not  known  you  were  allowed  to  draw  that  way,  much  less  that,  if  you  did,  your  drawing  might  be  printed  in  a  magazine.  )  I  read  &quot;The  Waste  Land,&quot;  which  the  Dial  published  that  year,  with  the  thirst  of  one  who  had  beennur-  A  tured  on  &quot;Lays  of  Ancient  \xef\xac\x82  Rome,&quot;  &quot;Idylls  of  the  [REDACTED];  and  &quot;Evangeline.&quot;  (If  it  arouses  the  skeptic  in  anyone  to  ponder  a  thirteen-year-old  w  boy  reading  &quot;The  Waste  Land&quot;  on  his  own,  and  for  pleasure,  I  can  only  say  that  I  under-  stood  it  then  as  well  as  I  do  today.)  I  made  heroes  of  the  writers  and  artists  in  the  Dial-especially  of  D.  H.  Law-  rence  and  Sigmund  Freud,  who  looked  satanic  with  their  black  beards  in  the  pictures  in  the  book  advertisements  and  I  was  so  won  over  by  the  novelties  of  E.  E.  Cummings'  style  and  punctua-  tion  that  Itried  to  palm  off  a  theme  written  in  Cummingsese  on  my  Eng-  lish  teacher,  an  old  lady  steeped  in  the  literary  tradition  of  the  Waverley  Nov-  els,  who  had  known  Henry  Wadsworth  Longfellow  in  her  girlhood  and  had  been  ever  afterward  a  reverent,  and  vocal,  admirer  of  his  works.  This  com-  position  was  returned  to  me  with  a  faint,  spidery  question  mark  on  the  margin,  and  was  never  mentioned  again.  I  also  tried  my  hand  at  the  New  Poetry.  My " b" subjects  were  invariably  death  and  de-  cay,  disillusion  and  doom.  I  have  for-  gotten  all  of  the  poems  I  wrote  but  one,  and  I  remember  that  only  imperfectly,  but  I  shall  try  to  reconstruct  it,  because  it  has  a  slight  bearing  on  that  Sunday  afternoon  in  1922.  The  poem  was  en-  titled  &quot;The  Crow,&quot;  and  it  went  some-  thing  like  this  (it  zigzagged  all  over  the  paper,  of  course,  and  had  no  capital  letters,  but  I  shall  just  give  it  straight):  Higher  and  higher  And  higher  Flies  the  carrion  crow  Into  the  sky.  He  comes  back  to  earth  And  sits  in  a  rotting  tree  And  utters  a  desperate  cry.  (He  has  flown  to  the  windows  Of  Heaven  and  looked  in.  Oh,  dread.  He  has  seen  God,  Lying  dead.)  I  did  not  show  my  poems  to  anyone,  but  I  carelessly  left  this  particular  ef-  fort  lying  on  my  desk,  where  my  father  saw  it  one  night  that  winter  when  he  came  to  my  room  to  borrow  some  ink  for  his  fountain  pen.  He  read  it,  and  then  held  it  up  for  me  to  see,  holding  the  paper  well  away  from  him  and  by  one  extreme  corner,  the  way  one  carries  a  dead  mouse  by  the  tail.  &quot;Is  this-uh-a  poem?  Or  what?&quot;  he  asked  me.  I  was  lying  in  bed  reading.  I  squinted  uncertainly  at  the  sheet  of  paper-al-  though  I  well  knew  what  it  was-and  1mwered  with  some  embarrassment,  &quot;Yes-kind  of.&quot;  &quot;Hmm,&quot;  said  my  father,  replacing  the  thing  carefully  on  my  desk.  &quot;Well,  good  night.  Thanks  for  the  ink.&quot;  When  he  said  &quot;ink,&quot;  he  showed  all  his  teeth.  I  WAS  a  little  squashed  by  the  inci-  dent,  but  the  memory  of  it  soon  receded.  By  spring,  I  was  wholly  com-  mitted  to  the  cultural  renaissance.  Re-  volt  was  in  the  air  in  our  house.  Then,  enter  Henry  P.  Davison,  Sr.  This  was  on  a  Sunday  in  early  May.  We  had  gathered  at  the  dinner  table  at  one  o'clock,  as  was  our  custom.  My  father,  who  did  not  always  go  to  church,  as  the  rest  of  us  did  perforce,  had  been  reading  the  Sunday  Times  in  his  den,  and  came  to  the  table  a  little  late,  look-  ing  solemn.  He  started  to  carve  what-  ever  we  were  having,  then  paused  and  said  something  likethis  to  my  Aunt  Emily:  &quot;It's  really  a  most  shocking  thing.  Henry  P.  Davison  died  yester-  day.  I  can't  get  over  it.&quot;  My  aunt  made  murmurs  of  sympa- " b"thetic  interest,  and  my  father  went  on.  He  had  stopped  carving,  and  our  maid,  Althea,  who  had  come  into  the  dining  room  with  the  mashed  potatoes,  had  to  just  stand  there  holding  them.  &quot;Com-  paratively  young  man,  too,&quot;  my  father  said,  standing  at  his  place  and  gazing  out  the  window.  &quot;I  just  can't  get  over  it.&quot;  Dinner  had  come  to  a  standstill.  Althea,  with  a  white  lace  apron  over  her  purple  going-out  dress,  and  with  her  Sunday-best  gold  pince-nez  on  her  lit-  tle  snub  nose,  looked  both  foolish  and  impatient;  she  was  due  to  go  walking  with  her  beau  right  after  washing  up  the  dishes.  It  was  I  who  broke  the  spell-  a  little  more  thoroughly  than  I  intend-  ed.  &quot;Who,&quot;  I  asked,  with  a  languid  droop  of  the  eyelids,  &quot;was  Henry  P.  Davidson?&quot;  My  father  looked  down  at  me  and  ||  &amp;  said  icily,  &quot;Davison.  Senior  partner  in  ||  J.  P.  Morgan  &amp;  Company.  Fine  man.  |  The  best  brain  in  Wall  Street  and,  to  |  my  mind,  one  of  the  very  best  in  the  whole  country.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  I  said,  with  an  insouciance  that  would  have  won  the  admiration  of  Oscar  Wilde,  &quot;a  businessman.  I  thought  maybe  it  was  somebody  impor-  tant.&quot;  This  remark  had  an  electric  effect.  My  father  regarded  me  for  a  long  mo-  ment  as  an  archbishop  might  look  at  a  ||  young  priest  who  had  informed  him  that  the  [REDACTED]  had  just  burned  down  but  (  sre  that  it  was  not  a  matter  that  need  con-  y  Mo  &quot;  cern  anyone  overmuch.  &quot;Look,&quot;  my  s  $  father  said  finally,  pointing  his  carving  fork  at  my  middle.  &quot;You  go  into  the  den  and  get  this  Sunday's  Times  and  take  it  up  to  your  room.  Now.  Read   the  article  in  it  on  Mr.  Davison,  and    then  you  just  sit  down  and  write  out  the story  of  his  life  in  your  own  words.  You  \xc2\xabi  can  have  all  this  afternoon  to  do  it  in,  while  the  rest  of  us  go  for  a  drive.  May-  |  be  you'll  find  out  who's  important  in  this  world  and  who's  not.&quot;  Something  in  my  father's  tone  told  me  it  would  be  better  to  drop  the  faincantpose  and  get  out  ofthere.I  left  the  room  precipitately,  after  a  quick  ||  glance  around  at  my  brothers  and  my  aunt,  who  were  all  looking  at  their  laps,  and  at  Althea,  who  was  still  standing  holding  the  mashed  potatoes  with  a  look  a  A  of  hewg\xef\xac\x82derment  onphcr  face. In  the  den,  I  swooped  up  armfuls  of  4  the  Times  and  made  my  way,  catlike,  M  to  my  third-floor  room.  I  \xef\xac\x82opzed  down  Ireland  &amp;  Legendary  Liqueur  on  my  bed,  and  with  a  heavy  sigh  con-  templated  the  vista  of  a  bleak  afternoon.  It  is  hard  tobelieve  now  that  forty  years  ago  a  Sunday  afternoon's  drive  in " b"automobile  was  considered  one  of  the  pursuits  of  pleasure.  These  jaunts  some-  times  had  destinations-a  county  fair,  a  farm  auction,  Niagara  Falls,  maybe,  or  even  East  Aurora,  where  Elbert  Hubbard  had  established  the  Roycroft  Press  and  an  inn,  plus  associated  gift  shops  that  sold,  for  the  most  part,  tooled  leatherwork.  (We  had  the  whole  set  of  &quot;Little  Journeys  to  the  Homes  of  Great  Men,&quot;  bound  in  limp  leather  that  stank  like  castor  oil,  and  I  had  an  in-  stinctive  hostility  to  Fra  Elbertus  and  all  his  works.  The  only  thing  that  ever  interested  me  about  any  of  that  East  Aurora  business  was  that  Elbert  Hub-  bard  had  gone  down  on  the  Lusitania.)  Most  often,  however,  our  Sunday-  afternoon  drives  had  no  destinations  at  all.  We  simply  rode  along  country  roads  and  looked  at  things  and  people  and  other  cars,  and  enjoyed  the  very  fact  of  locomotion.  I  loved  these  outings,  and  especially  that  year,  because  we  had  a  new  car-  a  new  second-hand  car,  that  is.  It  was  a  maroon  Marmon  touring  car  that  my  father  had  bought  from  a  partner  in  his  brokerage  firm,  but  it  looked  new  and  very  spanking  with  its  brass  accoutre-  ments  and  its  Spanish  red  leather  up-  holstery.  It  replaced  a  Model  T  we  had  had  for  some  years-a  car  that  used  to  boil  over  if  you  as  much  as  looked  at  it.  (During  the  tenure  of  the  Model  T,  I  remember,  my  father's  right  hand  was  very  often  bandaged;  he  could  \xc2\xbbzot  remember  that  one  shouldn't  unscrew  the  radiator  cap  while  the  water  was  boiling-or  maybe  it  was  that  when  the  car's  innards  start-  ed  retching  and  regurgitating,  he  would  get  so  mad  he  did  not  choose  to  remem-  ber.)  The  Marmon,  though,  was  a  thrill;  it  had  some  kind  of  suction  treads  on  its  tires  that  made  a  rich,  clicking  sound  when  we  passed  other  cars,  and  gave  one  a  warm  and  snobbish  sense  of  satisfaction.  Up  in  my  room,  I  could  hear  remote  sounds  from  below-the  buzz-buzz  of  conversation  and  the  occasional  whoosh  of  the  studded-leather  swinging  door  to  the  kitchen  as  Althea  came  and  went  with  the  vegetables,  the  dessert,  and  the  coffee.  I  was  not  hungry-we  ate  enormous  late  breakfasts  on  Sunday  in  those  days,  and  the  big  midday  dinner  was  wholly  unnecessary-but  I  was  up-  set.  Nothing  like  this  had  ever  hap-  pened  to  me  before.  A  little  later,  after  everyone  had  left  the  table  and  gone  about  the  business  of  getting  ready  for  the  drive,  I  heard  my  aunt,  on  the  sec-  ond-story  landing,  say  to  my  father  something  like  &quot;I  don't  think  you  should" b"make  threats  if  you  don't  intend  to  see  them  through,&quot;  to  which  I  heard  my  father  reply,  &quot;That  wasn't  a  threat.&quot;  Just  before  the  family  took  off,  my  aunt  appeared  in  the  doorway  of  my  room  and  looked  at  me  thoughtfully.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I'm  sorry  for  what  has  happened.  But,  really,  Albert  ...&quot;  &quot;I'm  all  right,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  won't  be  gone  for  too  long,&quot;  my  aunt  said.  &quot;If  you  get  hungry,  there's  peanut  butter,  and  milk,  and-  well,  you  know  where  to  find  things.&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  fine,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'd  just  as  lief  stay  home  anyway.  Goodbye.&quot;  I  HEARD  the  car  start  up,  but  it  did  not  leave  at  once.  From  disjointed  sentences,  comings  and  goings  on  the  front  walk,  and  the  slamming  of  the  car  doors  and  the  front  door  of  the  house,  I  figured  out  that  my  dog,  Rudolf,  had  invited  himself  on  the  ride,  as  usual,  and,  as  usual,  had  been  ejected  from  the  car  and  escorted  back  into  the  house.  He  was  much  too  passionate  a  car  passenger  for  my  father's  liking;  he  leaned  way  out,  barked  when  he  felt  like  it,  and  often  slavered  on  the  back  of  my  fa-  ther's  neck.  After  the  car  finally  de-  parted,  I  looked  down  the  banisters,  and  there,  sure  enough,  was  Rudolf,  circling  dejectedly  around  his  favorite  spot  in  the  front  hallway,  preparatory  to  taking  one  of  his  everlasting  naps.  As  soon  as  I  had  read  the  long  obitu-  ary  of  Henry  P.  Davison,  I  got  down  to  the  business  of  doing  the  biographical  essay.  Writing  the  composition  gave  me  some  trouble,  the  seat  of  which  was  my  father's  instruction  that  the  piece  must  be  in  my  own  words.  I  did  not  have  any  of  my  own  words  for,  say,  &quot;financial  acumen,&quot;  or  &quot;foreign  assets.&quot;  What  I  did  was  concentrate  on  Mr.  Davison's  early  years  and  his  struggles  as  a  young  man,  and  I  made  only  the  chariest  refer-  ences  to  his  business  career.  I  remember  little  of  it  now,  but  I  do  remember  two  things  in  the  Times'  obituary  that  struck  me  then-my  puzzlement  when  I  read  that  Mr.  Davison  had  died  at  the  age  of  fifty-four  (not  my  idea  of  &quot;a  compara-  tively  young  man;&quot;  my  father  was  only  thirty-six  ),  and  the  fact  that,  during  the  recent  Great  War,  Mr.  Davison  had  been  appointed  by  President  Wilson  to  head  something  called  the  Red  Cross  War  Council.  This  intelligence  threw  quite  a  bit  of  light  on  the  reason  for  my  house  arrest.  My  father,  during  the  same  war,  had  been  chief  of  the  Ameri-  can  Red  Cross  mission  to  Halifax  that  was  dispatched  to  the  city  right  after  it  had  suffered  disaster  from  the  great  ex-  plosion  in  the  harbor,  and  in  our  house " b"there  were  three  things  held  invio-  lable-the  Republican  Party,  the  Amer-  ican  Red  Cross,  and  the  Episcopal  Church,  in  about  that  order.  Mr.  Davi-  son  had  been  a  Republican,  probably  an  Episcopalian,  and  now,  it  seemed,  he  had  been  what  sounded  like  bossof  the  whole  Red  Cross.  (I  had  occasion  once,  when  I  was  a  good  bit  older,  to  look  up  the  definition  of  the  word  &quot;hwubris;&quot;  &quot;a  wanton  arrogance,&quot;  my  dictionary  said,  &quot;a  reckless  defiance  of  the  gods,  or  things  holy.&quot;  I  wished  I  had  known  that  word  then,  on  that  long-ago  Sun-  day  afternoon.)  I  wrote  my  piece  in  block  letters,  in  ink,  trying  to  compensate,  in  neatness  and  attractiveness,for  what  it  lacked  in  substance.  Then  I  took  it  downstairs  and  put  it  on  my  father's  little  walnut  secretary  in  the  den.  It  had  taken  me  perhaps  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  the  afternoon  was  still  young.  I  wandered  from  one  room  to  another,  feeling  the  loud  emptiness  of  the  house.  (The  kitch-  en  door  had  slammed  while  I  was  at  my  labors  in  my  room,  signalling  the  depar-  ture  of  Althea  and  her  sweetheart.)  In  the  living  room,  I  spotted  two  Mela-  chrinos  in  the  cut-glass  cigarette  box  on  the  table.  I  lit  one  and  sat  down  on  the  davenport,  striking  an  attitude  of  ele-  gant  ease.  The  cigarette  tasted  wonder-  ful-it  was  the  first  real,  non-corn-silk  cigarette  I  had  ever  smoked-and  it  oc-  curred  to  me  that  I  needed  a  drink  to  go  with  it.  I  looked  over  the  bottles  in  the  bottom  of  the  breakfront  cabinet  my  [,  father  used  as  a  bar.  There  was  a  brown  demijohn  of  pure  grain  alcohol  (accord-  ing  to  the  label);  a  half-filled  bottle  of  ging;  an  unopened  bottle  of  whiskey;  grenadine;  bitters;  and  a  bottle  of  Mar-  tini  &amp;  [REDACTED]  sweet  vermouth.  This  last  was  by  far  the  most  appealing-looking  bottle;  its  label  was,  as  it  still  is,  a  rich  and  inviting  work  of  art,  and  the  dark-  reddish  wine  had  a  delicious  taste  when  I  tentatively  sipped  a  little  of  it  from  the  bottleneck.  I  took  the  bottle  into  the  kitchen  and  filled  a  medium-sized  glass  to  the  brim.  On  my  way  back  to  the  liv-  ing  room,  I  paused  in  the  hallway  and  drank  a  toast  to  my  reflection  in  the  pier  glass  by  the  door.  &quot;To  your  very  good  health,  Rupert  of  Hentzau,&quot;  I  said,  re-  verting  to  an  earlier  literary  enthusiasm  of  mine,  whichhad  also  been  the  inspira-  tion  forthe  name  of  my  dog,  Rudolf  Rassendyll.  In  the  living  room  once  more,  I  lit  the  second  cigarette  and  drank  down  the  whole  glass  of  vermouth.  After  that,  I  decided  I  was  drunk.  (This  particular  vermouth  was  non-alcoholic,  as  I  discovered long afterward, and was used" b" by  my  father  only  to  flavor  the  Manhat-  tans  he  made  with  rye.  whiskey.)  I  got  up  from  the  davenport  and  went  around  the  room,  staggering  in  an  exaggerated  fashion,  and  lit  all  the  lamps.  We  had  one  lamp  that  I  was  very  fond  of;  it  was  a  conical  affair  made  out  of  large  chunks  of  colored  glass  embedded  in  lead-a  truly  ghastly  artifact,  and  one  I  would  give  a  good  deal  to  have  now.  I  read  aloud,  in  a  satirical  tone,  all  the  titles  on  the  backs  of  Dr.  Eliot's  Five-Foot  Shelf  of  Books,  which  we  kept  in  the  living  room  in  a  special  bookcase.  Then  I  got  my  gun,  a  Daisy  air  rifle,  and  reeled  out  into  the  back  yard.  Rudolf  came  with  me.  Rudolf  was  an  Airedale,  ever  so  slightly  mangu\xc3\xa9.  He  paid  little  attention  to  any  of  us  when  he  was  in  the  house.  He  slept  in  the  hallway  under  a  large,  tinted  lithograph  of  a  recumbent  lion,  which  had  real  wooden  bars  attached  to  its  oaken  frame,  and  intermittently  he  would  groan,  sigh,  and  rollhis  eyes  in  boredom.  However,  the  moment  any-  one  made  even  a  motion  toward  the  front  or  back  door,  Rudolf  was  alert  and  atwitch  with  expectation.  We  went  out  through  the  kitchen,  and  once  in  the  back  yard,  Rudolf,  aftera  quick  exam-  ination  of  the  premises  to  see  that  every-  thing  was  in  order  (no  cats,  no  visiting  dogs),  stood  at  stiff  attention,  eying  me  with  an  expression  that  said  &quot;What's  up?  &gt;&gt;  I  had  taken  my  gun  and  come  into  the  yard  without  any  notion  of  what  I  was  going  to  do.  I  was  still  drunk  (it  was  the  two  cigarettes,  of  course,  that  had  made  me  giddy,  along,  I  suppose,  with  the  autosuggestion  produced  by  the  Martini  &amp;  [REDACTED]  bottle),  and  I  felt,  with  Rudolf  standing  there  with  such  high  hopes,  that  action  was  demanded.  I  looked  around  the  yard  and  spotted  a  sparrow  that  had  just  lit  on  the  trotting-  horse  weather  vane  we  had  on  the  cupola  of  the  stable.  It  was  a  long  shot,  but  I  fired  anyway,  and,  to  my  astonish-  ment  and  considerable  dismay,  the  bird  fluttered  up  wildly  a  foot  or  so  in  the  air,  then  dropped  like  a  plumb  bob  to " b"the  driveway.  Rudolf  and  I  raced  over  to  where  the  little  bird  lay,  and  I  picked  it  up.  Suddenly  I  was  a  hunter.  It  was  a  sin  to  shoot  a  bird,  but  not  if  you  had  to  do  it  for  food.  I  had  gone  after  game  to  feed  my  family  (Rudolf),  hadn't  I?  And  now  the  family  could  eat.  With  Rudolf  excitedly  frisking  around  me,  I  loped  back  to  the  kitchen,  carrying  my  rifle  the  way  Leatherstocking  did  in  the  illustrations  in  our  Cooper  books,  and  steeling  myself  for  what  I  had  to  do.  On  the  kitchen  table  I  plucked  the  little  body  (I  could  not  bring  myself  to  cut  the  head  off  ),  got  out  our  smallest  fry-  ing  pan,  and  saut\xc3\xa9ed  the  bird  in  lard.  When  it  had  been  done  toa  nice  dark  brown  and  had  cooled  off  a  little,  I  carefully  lifted  it  out  of  the  pan  with  a  spatula  and  laid  it  in  Rudolf's  special  dish.  He  came  toward  the  dish  very  cautiously  and  sniffed  at  the  shrivelled  little  corpse  with  a  disdainful  twitching  around  his  nose.  Then  helooked  at  me  as  though  he  thought  I  had  lost  my  mind.  I  put  the  bird  in  the  garbage  pail,  and  then  went  into  the  lavatory  under  the  stairs  and  was  quite  sick.  I  was  trem-  bling  and  very  weak  afterward,  but  I  felt  compelled  to  clean  things  up.  I  emptied  the  ashtray  I  had  used,  and  wiped  it;  I  washed  the  vermouth  glass,  and  the  frying  pan  and  spatula;  and  I  gathered  all  the  sparrow  feathers  and  put  them  in  a  paper  bag,  and  put  that  in  the  garbage  pail,  carefully,  over  the  fried  remains  of  the  bird.  Then  I  turned  off  all  the  lamps  in  the  living  room  and  went  slowly  upstairs,  like  an  old  man,  and  carefully  laid  myself  down  on  my  bed.  I  suppose  I  fell  asleep  instantly.  HEN  I  woke  up,  it  was  dusk.  Ralph,  my  next-younger  brother,  was  sitting  at  the  foot  of  my  bed,  shak-  ing  my  foot  and  saying  softly,  &quot;Hey,  Al.  Wake  up.  We're  home.  We  saw  a  dancing  bear  in  Le  Roy,  and  we're  not  mad  at  you  any  more.&quot;  I  was  a  little  chagrined  to  be  caught  like  this,  with  my  guard  so  completely  down.  During  the  waking  part  of  the  afternoon,  I  had  been  vaguely  planning  to  arrange  some  kind  of  martyred,  or  |  pathetic,  or  at  least  interesting,  attitude  to  be  discovered  in  by  the  family  on  their  return-reading  the  Bible,  maybe,  or  giving  Rudolf  a  bath,  or  putting  a  final  coat  of  shellac  on  the  tie  rack  I  had  made  in  manual  training  for  my  father.  In-  stead,  and  unhappily,  here  I  was,  vul-  garly  snoozing  in  my  room.  'There  was  nothing  for  it  but  to  go  downstairs  and  face  whatever  welcomewas  in  store  for " b"me.  I  grunted  something  to  Ralph,  and  thought  to  myself,  What  does  he  mean,  we  aren't  mad  at  me  any  more?  What  does  he  know  about  Henry  P.  Davison?  Downstairs,  the  living  room  was  all  lit  up,  and  my  special  lamp  seemed  to  twinkle  at  me  with  mockery  as  I  went  through,  with  Ralph,  on  my  way  to  the  kitchen.  My  aunt  was  making  scram-  bled  eggs-our  ritual  Sunday-night  supper.  I  had  seen,  in  passing,  my  father  sitting  in  his  Morris  chair  in  the  den.  He  had  his  glasses  on  and  he  was  read-  ing  my  composition;  he  was  always  one  to  get  right  down  to  the  business  at  hand.  I  felt  a  little  chill  of  apprehension  when  I  saw  him  reading  the  piece,  but  I  went  about  my  regular  Sunday-eve-  ning  task  of  setting  the  dining-room  table  for  supper.  My  aunt  accepted  my  presence  as  though  everything  was  nor-  mal,  saying  only  such  things  as  &quot;Re-  member,  forks  go  on  the  left,&quot;  and  &quot;Don't  forget  the  salt  and  pepper,&quot;  and  &quot;I  think  tonight  we'll  put  clean  napkins  in  the  napkin  rings.&quot;  &quot;You  should  have  seer  the  dancing  bear  we  saw,  Al,&quot;  Ralph  said.  &quot;It  was  right  on  the  main  street  in  Le  Roy,  and  this  man-he  was  a  kind  of  an  Indian  and  he  had  it  on  a  lease.&quot;  Mexican,&quot;  my  aunt  said.  &quot;Leash.&quot;  'Yeah,&quot;  said  Ralph.  &quot;And  he  came  all  the  way  from  [REDACTED]  with  this  bear  in  the  sidecar.  He's  got  a  great  big  red  motorcycle,  and  a  Victrola,  and  he  plays  the  Victrola  on  the  sidewalk,  and  this  bear  Zances.&quot;  &quot;The  bear,&quot;  my  aunt  said.  &quot;I'd  call  it  more  of  a  shuffle  than  a  dance.  But  it  was  very  tame.  Not  a  big  bear,  [REDACTED];  Everything  was  ready  in  the  dining  room.  My  aunt  said,  &quot;Albert,  will  you  tell  your  father  that  supper  is  ready  now?&quot;  I  went  to  the  threshold  of  the  den  and  stood  there  waiting  for  my  father  to  notice  me,.  He  was  on  the  last  page  of  my  piece,  and  when  he  finished  he  looked  up  at  me  and,  tapping  the  manu-  script  with  the  backs  of  his  fingernails,  he  said,  &quot;This  is  very  good,  Albert.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Aunt  Emily  says  she's  putting  supper  on.&quot;  &quot;Fine,&quot;  said  my  father.  &quot;I'll  be  in  in  a  minute.&quot;  While  we  were  at  supper,  there  was  a  good  deal  more  talk  about  the  danc-  ing  bear,  and  I  welcomed  the  diversion,  even  though  I  was  a  little  jealous  be-  cause  I  had  not  seen  it.  My  father  said  it  was  a  pretty  scruffy-looking  bear,  and  that  its  collar  was  much  too  tight,  prob-  ably  on  purpose,  and  that  he  did  not  like  " b"the  way  the  bearkept  his  eyes  on  the  Mexican  at  all  times  in  such  a  fearful  way.  'This  Mexican  bird,  my  father  said,  claimed  he  had  been  a  colonel  in  Pancho  Villa's  army,  and  he  was  sell-  ing  the  story  of  his  life  in  little  pam-  phlets.  &quot;We  didn't  buy  one,&quot;  my  father  said  dryly.  I  did  not  need  to  be  told  that;  my  father  never  spent  money  on  things  of  that  kind.  After  supper,  while  my  aunt  was  putting  my  brothers  to  bed,  I  sat  at  the  table  with  my  father  while  he  drank  his  coffee  and  smoked  a  cigarette.  'This  was  our  custom,  and  I  did  not  want  to  do  anything  to  break  the  routine  or  to  call  attention  to  myself.  My  father  was  silent  for  quite  a  long  time,  then  tamped  out  his  cigarette  and  took  a  box  of  Melachrinos  out  of  his  pocket  and  lit  an-  other  one.  I  had  to  keep  myself  from  wincing  at  the  sight  of  it.  He  started  talking  to  me  while  he  was  lighting  the  cigarette-it  was  a  trick  he  had-peer-  ing  at  me  through  the  match  flame  and  the  first  puffs  of  smoke.  \xc2\xabThat  thing  you  wrote  about  Hen-  ry  P.  Davison  is  good,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  clear  and  plain,  and  it's  well  written.  Don't  you  think  that  is  better  than  sitting  up  in  your  room  all  day  and  writing  poems  about  crows  and  railing  at  God?&quot;  I  just  nodded  and  gulped.  &quot;Look,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Tell  me  some-  thing.  Who  would  you  say-take  three  men-are  important  in  this  world!  Or  important  fo  this  world?&quot;  &quot;You  mean  alive  now?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;No,  not  necessarily.  Living  or  dead,&quot;  my  father  said,  waving  his  ciga-  rette  carelessly  in  the  direction  of  the  dead.  &quot;Anybody.&quot;  &quot;Well,  uh,&quot;  I  angelo?&quot;  &quot;Um-hmm,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Don't  ask  me.  Tell  me.  Who  else?&quot;  &quot;Well.  William  Shakespeare.&quot;  &quot;I  see,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And?&quot;  &quot;And  Jesus,&quot;  I  said,  with  another  gulp.  &quot;Interesting,&quot;  he  said,  rubbing  at  his  said.  &quot;Michel-  eyes.  Then,  &quot;Well,  it's  been  a  long  day,  Alb.  I  guess  you'd  better  go  up  now.&quot;  I  said  good  night,  and  kissed  him,  and  went  up  to  my  room.  Y  father  is  dead  now,  and  one  of  my  regrets  about  him,  and  me;,  is  that  I  never  told  him,  then  or  in  the  years  afterward,  that  I  knew  it  was  dis-  honest  of  me  to  choose  those  three  names  and  trump  his  Wall  Street  ace  with  Jesus  in  that  way.  I  always  had  a  feeling  he  knew  that  I  knew  that  I  had  &quot;taken  adventage,&quot;  as  we  used  to" b'say  in  those  days.  He  never  referred  to  the  matter  again,  however.  He  was  quite  a  nice  man,  really.  '