 b"THE  first  indication  I  had  that  quotation  marks  were  getting  out  of  hand  was  a  sign  I  saw  recent  ly  .  reading  &quot;KEEP  OFF  THE  GRASS&quot;-  just  like  that,  with  quotation  marks  around  i  t,  Now,  I'd  always  considered  KEEP  OFF  THE  GRASS  as  firmly  in  the  pub  lic  domain  as  NO  SMOKING  or  STAMP  OUT  OBSCENE  MAIL.  So  why  the  quot  es?  A  quick  look  in  the  punctua-  tion  section  of  my  dictionary  informed  me  that,  besides  setting  o  ff  what  some-  one  has  actually  said,  and  occasionally  title  s,  ships,  and  &quot;words  used  as  words,&quot;  the  only  other  legitimate  uses  of  quota-  tion  m  arks  are  to  enclose  technical  terms  and  &quot;words  used  in  an  unusual  sense  ;  or  coined  words  .  ..  for  which  th  e  author  offers  slight  apology.&quot;  And  ye  t,  they're  everywhere  these  days.  People  have  taken  to  using  quotation  marks  for  wrong  purposes  only  because  there  aren't  any  suitable  punctuation  marks  available,  and  I  mean  to  remedy  this  situation.  'Th  at  si  gn  painter  was  sim-  ply  a  victim  of  what  I've  com  e  to  call  the  quotation-mark  epidemic.  George  Sokolsky  is  another.  Take  thes  e  lines  of  h  is:  And  they,  the  American  People,  do  not  limit  their  judgment  to  politics  and  eco-  nomics,  but  they  are  very  jealous  of  a  P  reside  n  t's  c  onduct  in  office,  his  habits,  his  manners,  his  courtesies,  his  &quot;good  con-  duct,&quot;  as  the  p  hrase  go  es.  Or  consider  this  abstract  from  a  letter  sent  to  a  friend  of  mine  last  spring  by  her  courtly,  somewhat  reserved  father:  .  and  we  &quot;sure  miss  you,&quot;  as  they  say,  so  do  try  and  take  an  extra  two  weeks  off  this  summer  if  you  can  for  a  visit.  Let  us  know.  &quot;Love,  Daddy&quot;  In  both  cases  the  authors  clearly  felt  compelled  to  offer  slight  apology  for  what  they  considered  pretty  racy  writ-  ing.  But  &quot;good  conduct&quot;  and  &quot;sure  miss  you&quot;  and  &quot;Love,  Daddy&quot;  don't  exactly  come  under  the  heading  of  Mr.  Web-  ster's  &quot;unusual  sense.&quot;  They  aren't  what  you'd  call  coined  words;  they  aren't  even  (unless  you're  Mr.  Sokol-  sky,  I  guess)  what  you'd  call  phrases  that  go.  So  what  to  do  with  them?  Set  them  off  with  my  new  punctuation  mark  for  such  occasions,  the  Punctilio!  ...  his  &quot;good  conduct\xc2\xae  or  ..  and  we  &quot;sure  miss  you,&quot;  so  do  try  ...  &quot;Love,  Daddy\xc2\xae  The  Punctilio  tells  the  reader  that  here  is  a  writer  whose  diction  is  so  pris-  tine  that  he  insists  on  surrounding  even  slightly  suspect  phrases  with  raised  eye-  brows.  And,  besides  giving  a  hitherto" b"impossibly  high  tone  to  a  passage,  the  Punctilio  saves  space.  Where  once  pris-  sy,  skirt-gathering  lines  like  &quot;as  the  phrase  goes&quot;  and  &quot;as  they  say&quot;  were  needed,  now  a  simple  pair  of  raised  eyebrows  tells  the  story.  T\xc2\xb0S  the  political  writers  who  have  really  felt  the  pinch  of  the  quotation-  mark  gap,  especially  the  fairly  conserv-  ative  ones,  like  Arthur  Krock,  of  the  Times.  Look  at  what  he  was  driven  to  in  the  way  of  punctuation:  The  Senator  whose  leadership  has  been  largely  responsible  for  the  two  Senate  ordinances  which  the  &quot;liberals&quot;  once  more  will  seek  to  remove  tomorrow  is  Lyndon  B.  Johnson  of  [REDACTED].  And  farther  on  in  the  same  column:  The  outgoing  majority  leader  was  never  more  eloquent  than  in  his  attack  on  the  Nixon  holding  and  the  &quot;liberal&quot;  effort  to  sustain  it.  What  in  the  world  does  he  mean  by  the  quotation  marks?  That  they  aren't  really  and  truly  liberal?  That  the  sena-  tors  in  question,  who  included  men  of  the  political  complexion  of  Humphrey,  Douglas,  and  Monroney,  are  actually  crypto-conservatives?  Maybe  so.  But  what  I  think  he's  doing  is  trying  to  use  the  obviously  inadequate  quotation  marks  to  excoriate  the  liberals.  Regular  quotes  are  so  overused  for  less  highpur-  poses  that  they  simply  don't  convey  the  proper  measure  of  scorn.  One  conserva-  tive  writer,  William  F.  Buckley,  Jr.,  just  gave  up.  It  was  in  a  work  of  his  political  nonage  called  &quot;God  and  Man  at  Yale.&quot;  He  had  been  having  at  that  radical  New  Haven  bunch,  dutifully  en-  casing  &quot;liberal&quot;  in  quotes,  when  he  came  to  the  chapter  called  (as  was  the  sub-  title  of  his  book)  &quot;The  Superstitions  of  'Academic  Freedom.'&quot;  Naturally,  he  mentioned  &quot;acadernic  freedom&quot;  almost  right  off  the  bat,  but  enough  was  enough,  and  at  the  first  mention  he  ap-  pended  an  asterisk  and  said  in  a  foot-  note:  The  reader  is  no  doubt  weary  of  seeing  quotation  marks  around  &quot;academic  free-  dom.&quot;  Hereafter,  I  shall  mostly  dispense  with  them,  except  occasionally,  so  that  they  [)  may  serve  asa  reminder  that  I  am  at  sword's  point  with  the  common  usage  of  that  term,  as  I  shall  explain  later.  Do  you  wonder  he's  sore?  Here's  a  fellow  building  up  a  real  head  of  ran-  cor,  and  what's  he  got  to  set  it  off  with?  &quot;*C,&quot;  that's  what.  How  frail  a  craft  to  bear  the  vast  Buckleyan  scorn!  My  next  new  mark  is  what's  needed  here.  It's  the  Comrade.  Here's  more  Mr.  Krock,  this  time  fellow-travelling  with  the  Comrade  in  use:  If  the  Speaker's  proposal,  now  threat-" b"ened  with  failure,  is  successful,  House  procedure  next  Tuesday  will  be  returned  to  the  control  of  the  Speaker  and  of  the  current  Administration  that  was  taken  from  both  by  the  (&amp;  liberal  \xc2\xae)  reformers  of  1910  under  the  leadership  of  George  W.  Norris  of  [REDACTED].  At  last,  the  meaning  is  clear.  You  might  object  to  a  certain  want  of  nicety  in  asking  Mr.Krock  to  use  the  same  mark  that  Mr.  Buckley  uses.  For  one  thing,  Mr.  Krock  probably  isn't  in  such  a  sweat  about  the  Domestic  Peril.  Espe-  cially  in  the  case  above,  the  Comrade  is  too  strong,  its  meaning  maybe  a  lit-  tle  too  clear.  After  all,  that's  Norris,  La  Follette,  and  Borah  he's  talking  about,  not  Schlesinger  and  Galbraith  (although,  in  practically  all  cases,  Mr.  Buckley  would  find  the  Comrade  just  dandy).  Well,  there's  a  second-degree  Comrade,  the  Ingenuous.  Here's  how  it  would  look  for  Mr.  Krock:  That  provision  has  enabled  a  determined  minority  ...  to  retain  the  power  of  success-  ful  filibuster  against  legislation  it  opposes,  a  power  principally  employed  by  the  South-  ern  minority  to  kill  equal  rights  bills  long  sought  by  Senate  \xc2\xb0liberals,\xc2\xb0  both  Democratic  and  Republican.  and  also  by  Presidents  Truman  and  Eisenhower.  You  see  how  useful  the  Ingenuous  will  be.  Flanking  the  offending  word  with  a  mark  of  wide-eyed  credulity  gives  the  author's  meaning  an  exactness  that  the  Comrade  lacks,  especially  for  broad,  sweeping  groups  like  the  one  above.  But  even  with  the  addition  of  the  Ingenuous  the  new  political  punctua-  tion  isn't  complete,  because  it  isn't  alto-  gether  fair.  Here  we've  armed  the  Right  without  giving  the  Left  separate-but-  equal  scorn  marks.  So  I  propose  the  Horstwessel.  With  it,  liberals  can  write  about  \xc2\xa7  conservatives  5  and  make  it  perfectly  clear,  even  to  anyone  who's  never  heard  of  the  Ne-  tional  Review,  just  what  they  have  in  mind.  I'd  also  suggest  a  played-down  version,  analogous  to  the  Ingenuous,  to  be  called  the  Rotarian.  Less  fervent  lib-  erals  can  use  it  with  a  show  of  expansive  fair-mindedness  when  explaining  that,  actually,  some  of  their  best  friends  are  &quot;conservatives.&quot;  As  for  my  best  (2  \xc2\xb0friends&quot;  5  (when  it  comes  to  choosing  friends,  my  politi-  cal  bias  is  as  lighthearted  as  the  Vicar  of  Bray's),  they  all  think  the  new  punctuation  marks  are  &quot;just  dandy.&quot;  With  proper  support,  they're  sure  to  replace  quotes,  which,  in  turn,  will  revert  to  their  original  functions  of  in-  dicating  speech  and  setting  off  the  wild,  the  comical,  and  the  somewhat  improb-  able. "