 b'"GET  me  my  glasses,  would  you,  dear,  please?&quot;  His  mother\'s  voice  drew  Dale\'s  attention  from  his  book,  and  the  mood  of  troikas  and  snow  vanished.  He  didn\'t  hear  all  she  said.  &quot;They\'re  on  the  table  upstairs  by  my  bed.&quot;  The  way  she  spoke  said  that  she  herself  couldn\'t  quite  face  the  stairs.  &quot;What?&quot;  &quot;&quot;My  glasses.&quot;  He  was  satisfied  that  she  knew  she\'d  disturbed  him,  and  he  went  upstairs.  Running  errands  annoyed  him;  he  felt  he  was  being  made  a  convenience  of.  He  did  not  findthe  glasses.  He  looked  in  the  bedroom,  and  they  weren\'t  on  the  table.  He  looked  on  the  bureau  and  the  bed  and  another  table,  and  called,  \'\'They\'re  not  here.&quot;  &quot;Look  in  my  straw  purse  in  the  closet.&quot;  He  couldn\'t  find  it.  &quot;That\'s  not  here  either!&quot;  &quot;Wait  a  minute;  it  may  be  down  on  the  hall  table.  Wait  a  minute.&quot;  He  heard  her  get  up  and  cross  the  room.  \'Yes,  here  it  is,  they\'re  in  here.&quot;  He  came  downstairs.  &quot;I\'m  sorry,  dear,&quot;  she  said.  He  grumbled  something  she  could  take  to  be  acknowledgment,  and  picked  up  his  book  again.  As  if  she\'d  been  wait-  ing  for  that  moment,  she  added,  &quot;When  your  father  is  away,  you  must  be  the  man  of  the  house.  So  don\'t  be  cross,  dear.&quot;  Bonfires  had  been  built  on  street  cor-  ners  in  St.  Petersburg,  and  passersby  would  pause  and  warm  themselves  be-  fore  going  on.  Horse-drawn  streetcars  were  crossing  the  Neva  River,  which  was  frozen,  the  rails  being  laid  right  on  the  ice.  &quot;Would  you  like-I  won\'t  bother  you  again-would  you  like  to  go  shop-  ping  with  me  tomorrow!  I  thought  1d  get  a  roast  for  tomorrow  night,  if  you\'d  like  it.&quot;  She  looked  up  from  her  cook-  book.  &quot;No,  I  was  going  to  do  something  else.  Steve\'s  taking  me  out  in  his  boat.  Thanks,  though.&quot;  Dale  suddenly  was  lonely,  sitting  alone  with  her,  and  be-  came  bored  and  restless.  Across  the  par-  lor  she  read  her  cookbook  and  from  time  to  time  gently  cleared  her  throat.  He  went  next  door,  wondering  why  he  would  be  restless  with  a  novel.  He  loved  Russian  novels.  Steve  was  there,  just  finishing  the  dinner  dishes,  and  glad  Dale  had  come.  In  the  morning,  they  were  going  to  sail  to  the  Isles  of  Shoals,  which  were  off  the  coast,  just  visible  from  their  houses  on very  cleardays.  They  talked  about  strategy  and  weather.  They  had  been  in  a  race  in  the  afternoon,  as  on  most  weekends,  but  although  they  were  busy  during  the  day  they  were  usually  bored  at  night.  Once  they  had  been  happy  to  play  Monopoly  as  long  as  they  could.  They  had  sometimes  played  the  same  game  for  days,  each  unwilling  to  make  the  other  lose.  Now  they  were  lonely  together,  which  to  Dale  was  worse  than  each  being  lonely  by  himself.  The  only  girl  within  walking  dis-  tance  was  fantastically  ugly,  but  shedid  have  records  and  Scrabble,  and  she  played  bridge.  Steve  phoned  her,  but  she  was  going  out  that  night.  Steve  said,  &quot;Let\'s  see  what  Mike\'s  do-  ing.  Maybe  his  grandmother  will  play  bridge.&quot;  They  went  out  the  backdoor  and  through  a  clump  of  lilac  trees.  &quot;I  feel  tike  Chicken-Licken,&quot;  said  Dale.  Mike  came  out  and  stood  on  the  kitchen  doorstep.  It  was  nearly  dark.  &quot;Naw,  no  bridge  tonight;  they\'re  hav-  ing  guests.  You  can\'t  even  come  in  the  house.  You  guys  want  a  tonic?  I\'ll  bring  \'em  out.&quot;  Mike  drawled  out  his  words-as  if  holding  his  chin  up  made  the  sounds  slide  back  somewhere  behind  his  nose-because  he  was  stronger,  and  younger,  than  the  other  two  and  they  came  to  him  when  they  were  looking  for  something  to  do.  &quot;I  was  just  starting  a  Sayers  novel  that  looks  great.  What  were  you  guys  thinking  of  doing?&quot;  Light  from  inside  filtered  out  to  them,  leaning  against  the  house,  where  the  dusk  was  almost  gone.  &quot;I  don\'t  know,  bridge.  Noth-  ing  now,  I  guess,&quot;  Steve  said.  &quot;Well,  I  expect  I\'ll  go  on  read-  ing,  then.&quot;  &quot;\'No,  come  on,  thethree  of  us  will  think  of  something,&quot;  Steve  said.  This  inevitable  coaxing  of  Mike  made  Dale  uncomfort-  able,  and  he  tried  to  leave  it  to  Steve.  &quot;Like  what?&quot;  Mike  had  gray  eyes  and  a  crew  cut.  He  looked  like  a  blond  Indian.  &quot;What\'s  wrong  with  just  walk-  ing  around?  It  might  be  fun  at  night,  too,  you  know.&quot;  Dale  thought  to  himself  that  they  might  end  by  calling  on  someone  who  was  still  up.  &quot;Naw,  I  don\'t  want  to  go  for  a  walk.  T\'d  rather  read.&quot;  Mike  let  his  voice  break  frequently,  making  the  others  feel  an  idea  hadn\'t  met  his  expectations.  &quot;How  about  cutting  through  the  moors  again  to  the  cove?&quot;  Steve  said.  &quot;Look,  Dale  and  I  had  so  many  ' b"cat  briars  in  us-  I  mean  it's  just  not  a  bright  thing  to  do  twice.&quot;  &quot;Mike,  can  you  climb  the  radar  tower?&quot;  Dale  asked.  &quot;I  suppose  you  can  if  no  one  stops  you.  I've  never  done  it.&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  will.  It  should  be  fun;  you  can  probably  see  the  whole  cape.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,  we'll  go.  Steve  and  I  can  watch  Dale  dangle.&quot;  Mike  came  grudgingly.  HEY  had  walked  down  the  driveway  to  theroad;  now  they  started  toward  the  point  and  the  tower.  The  road  was  wet,  there  were  few  houses  near  it,  and  the  street  lights,  spaced  far  apart,  gave  a  misty  light.  It  was  also  the  coast  high-  way,  and  it  followed  the  shore  very  carefully.  They  walked  in  the  road;  Dale  walked  on  the  edge,  pulling  up  stalks  of  long  grass  that  grew  alongside.  The  air  smelled  of  salt,  and  their  clothes  were  soon  damp  with  the  mist.  &quot;I'm  going  to  break  a  win-  dow  tonight,&quot;  Dale  said.  'The  summer's  almost  over.&quot;  Mike  said,  &quot;Yeah,&quot;  daring  him,  and  the  idea  didn't  seem  as  much  fun  to  Dale  as  be-  fore-mainly  worth  doing  to  shut  Mike  up.  The  fog  reflected  the  lights  of  acar  ahead  of  them,  and  then  abruptly  the  car  appeared  and  swept  past  them,  veering  into  the  other  lane  as  it  did  so.  &quot;He's  going  too  fast,&quot;  Steve  said.  &quot;Well,  tell  him  to  stop.  Show  him  he's  stupid,&quot;  said  Mike.  &quot;We  used  to  at  school,&quot;  Dale  said.  &quot;We  strung  toilet  paper  over  the  road,  and  when  a  car  came  we  looked  as  if  we  had  a  cable  or  something  in  front  of  them  and  they'd  try  to  stop,  and  if  they  were  going  too  fast  they  couldn't  in  time.  I  don't  know  what  they  thought  was  go-  ingon,  but  it  almost  always  worked.  You  don't  even  have  to  have  the  toilet  paper,  you  just  stand  and  look  as  if  you  were  pulling  something.  Of  course  they  were  madder  than  hell  and  we  had  to  disappear  sometimes  until  they  went  away.  Maybe  they  thought  they  were  going  to  be  robbed  or  murdered  or  something.&quot;  &quot;What  if  they  stop  at  the  next  police  station?&quot;  Steve  said.     &quot;They  don't.  Actually,  we're  doing  a  damn  public  service  with  these  guys  that  can't  stop.  I  mean  they  might  really  have  to  sometime,  and  they'd  still  think  they  could.&quot;  &quot;We'll  still  need  a  place  to  go  after,&quot;  Mike  said.  &quot;Where'll  we  go?&quot;  They  stopped  by  the  little  cemetery  halfway  to  the  point  and  waited  for  a  car.  Mike  pushed  over  one  of  the  thick  granite  tombstones  while  they  waited.  When  they  saw  lights  coming,  they  grouped  themselves  opposite  a  tree  and  assumed  strained  attitudes,  pretending  to  tug  mightily  on  some  invisible  rope.  The  car  came  to  the  top  of  a  shallow  rise,  saw  them  at  the  last  minute,  and     Ess  came  squealing  to  a  stop  fifty  feet  be-  yond  them.  It  had  scarcely  stopped  when  it  was  forced  into  reverse  and  came  shooting  back  at  them.  Dale  ran  into  the  cemetery,  followed  by  Steve,  who  was  slow,  and  Mike,  who  waited  to  see  what  was  going  to  happen.  &quot;He's  not  coming,&quot;  Mike  said.  &quot;Pretty  mad,  wasn't  he?&quot;  They  sat  down  to  rest  and  wait  for  the  car  to  drive  off,  and  Steve,  who  was  excited,  pushed  over  two  more  fancy  tombstones.  &quot;I've  always  wanted  to  be  in  a  cemetery  at  night,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Very  exciting.  Aren't  you  afraid  of  being  haunted?&quot;  Mike  said.  When  they  were  sure  the  car  had  " b"gone  for  good,  they  went  back  to  the  street.  It  was  already  after  ten.  They  played  with  the  cars  several  times  more  as  they  walked  toward  the  radar  tower,  and  found  they  could  dispense  with  the  tree  if  one  of  them  stood  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  road  and  pretended  to  tug  on  the  other  end  of  the  rope.  Most  of  the  cars  drove  on  after  stopping,  but  one  woman  screamed  at  them  for  several  minutes  from  the  side  of  the  road,  drove  away,  then  came  back  in  ten  minutes  and  called  some  more,  as  though  there  were  a  cop  with  her.  &quot;'The  trouble  is,&quot;  Dale  said,  as  the  road  came  from  under  trees  to  a  broad  cleared  area,  &quot;people  have  no  respect  for  the  decorum  of  things.&quot;&quot;  Ahead  of  them  was  an  old  stone  pier  that  looked  across  the  water  onto  a  wooded  neck  of  land.  The  road  turned  sharply  right  here,  marking  thebase  of  the  point.  Be-  yond  the  turn  ahead,  on  the  point  itself,  a  string  of  yellow-painted  tourist  cabins  stuck  up  among  the  low  bushes.  On  the  pier  was  a  restaurant,  closed  for  the  night,  its  sign  unlit,  at  which  Dale  pointed.  &quot;There  are  strings  in  their  chocolate  ice  cream.  I  would  rather  look  the  other  way  when  I  come  from  town.  Before  they  built  that,  there  was  a  dance  hall  they  called  the  La  Rendez-  vous.  It  burned  down,  and  my  mother  said  no  one  liked  that  being  there  either.&quot;  &quot;Well,  we  can't  burn  the  place  down,  but  I'll  heave  a  few  rocks  into  the  cabins,&quot;  Mike  said.  ''There'll  be  people  in  them,&quot;  Dale  said.  &quot;Naw,  they're  closed  already.  No-  body  stays  in  them,&quot;  Mike  said.  They  agreed  the  cabins  must  be  empty  and  walked  toward  them,  past  the  pier,  on  the  gravel  road  that  went  from  the  street  into  the  point.  The  radar  tower  loomed  over  them,  farther  along  the  road,  red  lights  blinking  on  and  off  high  up  on  it.  A  light  went  on  in  the  cabin  closest  to  the  street.  All  the  oth-  ers  were  dark.  &quot;Well?&quot;  Steve  said.  He  wanted  to  leave,  and  Dale  was  beginning  to,  but  neither  wanted  to  admit  to  more  than  he  had  to.  Then  the  light  went  off  again.  The  light  gravel  of  the  road  seemed  to  shine,  and  the  bushes  beside  the  road  were  only  a  little  blacker  than  the  landscape  behind  them.  There  were  lights  across  the  water  and  on  the  tower.  &quot;I'm  going  to  throw  a  rock.  Through  a  window,&quot;  Mike  said,  as  they  walked  toward  the  cabins,  with  Steve  lagging  a  little  behind.  ''They'll  hear  in  the  next  cabin,  stupid,&quot;  Dale  said. &quot;I'm  going  to  the  farthest  one.  How  about  it?&quot;  &quot;I'll  see  how  much  noise  you  make.&quot;  &quot;That  means  you'll  run.  You  scared  or  something?  Nobody's  going  to  catch  us.&quot;  Dale  waited  with  Steve  while  Mike  went  closer  and  with  great  gentleness  lobbed  the  rock  through  the  window.  It  shattered  and  rang,  a  metal  sound,  sud-  denly  filling  the  night,the  only  sound.  He  picked  a  boulder,  Dale  thought;  he  broke  the  whole  frame.  On  the  porch  at  home,  the  Chinese  glass  bell  would  break  in  a  high  wind,  each  pane  twang-  ing,  a  smaller  sound.  They  ran.  &quot;You  didn't  have  to  make  so  much  noise,&quot;  Dale  said  when  Mike  caught  up.  &quot;No  one  heard.  There's  no  one  around.  Let's  do  another.&quot;  &quot;Hell,  there's  another  light  on.&quot;  They  started  running  again,  farther  into  the  point.  The  loose  stones  made  hard  footing.  ''There's  no  phone  in  those  places,  Mike  said.  &quot;Cut  acrossthe  point  and  back  onto  the  high-  way.&quot;  By  the  time  they  passed  the  pier  and  the  cabins  again,  no  one  would  be  looking  for  them.  They  didn't  pause  as  they  passed  the  tower,  but  hurried  deep-  er  into  the  point.  Eventually,  out  of  breath,  they  sat  and  rested  in  some  high  grass.  &quot;We  might  as  well  give  them  time  to  settle  down,&quot;  Dale  said.  The  red  blinking  lights  of  the  tower  still  seemed  right  above  them.  For  several  minutes,they  heard  an  owl  nearby.  They  waited  a  while  longer,  then  worked  their  way  through  the  woods  across  the  point.  HEN  they  got  back  to  the  road,  it  was  late.  Mike  wanted  to  play  with  the  cars  again.  &quot;I'm  getting  a  little  sick  of  this,&quot;  Dale  said;  the  game  had  lost  interest,  and  he  was  less  restless  than  when  they'd  started.  Steve  was  nerv-  ous.  They  walked  along  the  highway  toward  the  cabins  and  home.  A  car  coming  around  the  turn  behind  them  caught  the  bushes  across  the  road  in  its  lights.  &quot;Let's  do  this  one,&quot;  Mike  said.  &quot;I  don't  think  they're  going  fast  enough,&quot;  Dale  said.  &quot;''There  won't  be  another  for  an  hour.&quot;  The  car  appeared  around  the  curve,  " b"apparently  going  no  faster  than  thirty.  &quot;I  wish  there  were  four  of  us,&quot;  Dale  said.  &quot;Get  on  the  other  side  before  it's  too  late.&quot;  Steve  ran  across  the  road.  They  strained  at  their  imaginary  cable  as  thecar  came  on.  Dale,  head  down,  was  absorbed  in  the  business  of  looking  as  though  he  was  pulling  the  cable.  He  waited,  expecting  the  sound  of  brakes,  after  which  he  would  dash  into  the  woods.  The  sound  was  a  little  too  long  in  coming.  He  looked  and  saw  the  car  had  been  slowing  and  was  about  to  stop  just  abreast  of  them.  With  Mike  he  bolted  around  the  back  of  the  car  and  across  the  street  into  a  meadow,  and  ran  as  hard  as  he  could  toward  a  thicket  and  the  woods  beyond  it.  Steve  began  to  run,  too.  Dale  heard  men  shouting  behind  him;  there  seemed  a  good  many  of  them.  &quot;Get  those  kids,&quot;  someone  called.  Jesus,  he  thought,  we  picked  a  bunch  of  truck  drivers.  Some-  one  shouted  &quot;Halt!&quot;  and  someone  &quot;.  ..  shoot,&quot;  and  then  several  shouted  &quot;Halt!&quot;  again.  They  weren't  far  away,  and  then  he  heard  &quot;Shoot  over  their  heads.&quot;  Mike  had  passed  him,  and  Steve  was  a  little  behind.  Christ,  he  thought,  we're  being  hunted.  He  heard  Steve  shout  &quot;Help!&quot;  It  was  as  if  the  men  had  been  waiting  to  jump  out  of  their  car  on  them.  He  didn't  know  who  would  react  this  way  or  why-taking  a  practical  joke  so  seriously.  He  ran  harder  and  quietly.  He  found  himself  wishing  someone  would  help  him.  Mike  and  Steve  wereno  longer  near  but  had  gone  off  in  other  direc-  tions.  He  ran  until  a  shoe  came  off  and  he  fell.  He  was  afraid  to  take  time  to  put  it  on  again,  and  afraid  ofthe  bram-  bles  and  rocks  he  would  run  over  with-  out  it.  He  hid  in  some  bushes  and  watched  and  listened  to  the  men  getting  nearer.  'They  had  flashlights;  there  seemed  to  be  lots  of  them.  Somebody  called,  &quot;There's  one  of  them  over  this  way.&quot;  He  was  afraid;  they  sounded  mean  and  angry,  and  he  had  never  been  caught  like  this  before,  with  no  way  out.  He  heard  another  say,  &quot;Wait'll  I  get  those  kids.&quot;  He  sounded  tough.  For  a  minute,  Dale  thought  the  loud  shouting  was  to  scare  them  into  giving  up.  What  were  they  doing  with  guns?  He  almost  burst  out  laughing,  and  then  wondered  what  was  going  to  happen  to  him.  He  squeezed  himself  smaller  in  the  leaves  and  closed  his  eyes.  The  smell of  the  " b" fresh  dirt  of  a  garden  close  by  mingled  with  the  smell  of  the  ocean  and  mist.  His  neck  and  back  twitched  as  if  a  hand  were  above  him  about  to  strike  him.  God  knows  what  they  would  do  if  they  were  angry  enough  to  make  such  a  fuss.  He  thought,  They'll  beat  us  up,  and  the  thought  of  being  hit  made  him  more  scared.  One  of  the  flashlights  was  moving  around  his  area.  He  heard  shouts  in  the  distance,  from  the  other  side  ofthe  field.  From  the  direction  of  the  flash-  light  someone  called,  &quot;I've  got  one.&quot;  He  held  his  breath.  From  behind  him  a  voice  said,  &quot;Come  on  out  of  there,  you.&quot;  He  held  himself  perfectly  still,  not  sure  it  was  he  who  had  been  seen  and  not  wanting  to  be  bluffed  into  showing  himself.  'The  flashlight  was  turned  on  him.  He  got  up  stiffly  and  heard  the  man  grunt.  &quot;C'mere.  Hold  your  arm  out.&quot;  He  could  think  of  nothing  else  to  do;  feeling  caught  made  him  scarcely  aware  of  any-  thing  else.  'The  light  was  held  in  his  eyes;  he  could  see  no  more  than  that  the  man  who  had  caught  him  was  big.  He  did  as  he  was  told.  A  handcuff  was  snapped  hard  around  his  wrist.  For  the  first  time  it  occurred  to  him  that  it  was  cops;  he  feltless  afraid.  He  was  pulled  toward  the  man  by  the  handcuff;  the  metal  cut  his  arm.  &quot;Ican  break  your  arm  so  easy  like  this,  so  don't  get  smart.&quot;  He  said,  &quot;You  probably  can.&quot;  His  wrist  was  twisted.  &quot;Don't  be  fresh  either,  son.  Walk  close.&quot;  'They  walked  back  toward  the  road.  &quot;Ever  think  you  might  have  killed  someone?&quot;  He  said,  &quot;We  didn't  stop  any  cars  going  that  fast.  You  weren't.&quot;  The  cop  took  several  steps,  dragging  Dale  by  the  wrist  along  beside  him,  be-  fore  he  spoke.  &quot;You  might  have  killed  somebody.  A  woman  was  asleep  in  bed  under  that  window.&quot;  Dale  suddenly  had  a  sickening  feeling  that  calls  had  been  coming  in  all  evening  to  bring  out  the  police,  who  knew  everything  they'd  done.  The  cop  said,  &quot;When  you  go  to  heave  a  rock,  you  really  get  one  that'll  go  through  the  window,  don't  you?  You  guys  are  lucky.  She  might  have  been  hurt  bad.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know,  I  didn't  throw  it.&quot;  &quot;Uh-huh,  and  I  suppose  we'll  find  that  neither  of  them  did,  either.&quot;  The  policeman  seemed  to  share  his  feeling  that  it  would  be  best  for  him  to  say  something  and  get  out  of  this  spot.  It  would  be  worse,  he  thought,  if  he  lied  and  then  they  found  out.  He  want-  ed  to  get  over  the  emotions  he  was  hav-  ing  at  the  moment,  to  stop  feeling  in  someone  else's  control,  He  said  that  Mike  had  thrown  the  rock.  He  told  the  policeman  his  own  name  and  where  he  lived  and  about  his  family,  and  he  told  who  the  others  were,  too,  and  what  schools  they  went  to.  He  said  they  had  only  wanted  to  make  some  trouble  for  the  owner,  whom  nobody  liked.  He  wasn't  able  to  explain  why  a  bright  kid  like  him  was  playing  kid  pranks.  Dale  suddenly  realized  that  he  was  speaking  in  a  clear,  high  voice,  wholly  without  its  normal  deepness.  They  were  getting  near  the  car,  and  he  saw  another  cop  bringing  Mike  back.  He  was  glad  to  see  Mike.  By  the  time  they  reached  the  car,  he  had  the  impres-  sion  that  the  police  were  actually  rather  sorry  to  have  caught  them,  as  if  they  had  expected  someone  more  important  and  thought  they  had  wasted  their  time.  He  decided  to  shut  up  again.  Dale's  cop  said,  &quot;Don't  you  ever  run  from  a  policeman  again,  you  hear?  For  what  we  knew,  you  could  have  been  in-  tending  to  rob  or  assault,  not  just  some  silly  kids.  You're  lucky  you  weren't  shot  at.  We  took  a  chance  on  a  couple  of  you  looking  pretty  soft.&quot;  They  were     unhandcuffed  and  put  in  the  car,  with  Mike  in  the  front  seat.  The  two  police-  men  talked  a  few  feet  off.  Steve  was  brought  back,  and  the  third  cop  satin  the  back  seat  between  himand  Dale,  the  other  two  in  front,  with  Mike  between  them.  They  were  driven  to  the  police  station.  They  weren't  to  talk,  and  scarcely  looked  at  each  other.  Dale  wondered  if  either  of  the  others  had  told  anything.  He  thought  they  couldn't  have  avoided  it,  but  he  couldn't  see  from  their  faces.  He  didn't  want  to  be  caught  taking  a  good  look.  They  all  looked  straight  ahead.  There  were  lots  of  police  in  the  sta-  tion.  'The  officer  in  charge  was  reported  to,  and  Mike  was  taken  into  a  back  room  by  several  men.  Dale  and  Steve  were  put  in  chairs  in  a  sort  of  cockpit  sur-  rounded  by  high  counters,  and  one  man  stood  by  them.  Mike  was  brought  back  looking  as  though  he  approved  of  him-  self,  and  they  were  all  given  a  lecture  by  the  senior  officer.  When  the  lecture  was  over,  he  said,  &quot;Your  families  are  coming  to  take  you  home  for  the  night.&quot;  They  were  allowed  to  sit  by  them-  selves,  and  Dale  was  afraid  Steve  and  Mike  were  going  to  find  out  that  he'd  given  them  away.  Mike  said,  &quot;You  guys  didn't  keep  any  secrets  from  our  pals,  did  you?,&quot;  but  he  looked  first  to  Steve  to  answer,  and  it  turned  out  that  he'd  told  about  the  graveyard  as  well.  Dale  felt  that  it  was  all  right  to  say  something-in  fact,  that  he'd  better-  and  he  said,  &quot;I  told  them  you  broke  the  window.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Jesus,  what's  the  matter  with  you  guys?&quot;  Mike's  voice  was  a  squeak.  He  turned  away  again  and  slumped  in  his  chair  with  his  hands  in  his  pockets,  his  feet  straight  out  and  crossed.  Dale  had  wanted  to  say  something,  without  really  knowing  what.  Mike's  eyes  were  opened  very  wide  and  his  eyebrows  raised  as  he  settled  into  his  chair.  In  a  minute,  he  raised  his  eyebrows  even  " b"higher,  and  Dale  decided  not  to  inter-  rupt  his  thoughts.  A  car  drove  up.  When  no  one  got  out,  a  policeman  went  to  the  window  and  said,  &quot;This  for  any  of  you?&quot;  They  looked,  and  Dale  said,  &quot;It's  ours.&quot;  The  cop  went  out  and  returned  with  Dale's  mother,  who  had  just  put  a  coat  over  her  pajamas.  He  could  see  she  didn't  like  being  there.  She  looked  at  the  three  of  them  as  she  came  in,  and  Dale,  surprised,  saw  that  her  glance  appraised  the  situation  without  revealing  any  feeling  about  it.  She  went  straight  to  the  man  behind  the  highest  counter  and  was  taken  around  behind  it.  The  policeman  there  talked  quietly  to  her  for  a  long  time,  so  that  only  she  could  hear,  and  at  intervals  she  broke  in.  Then  she  came  over  to  Dale  and  smiled.  &quot;Ready  to  go?  Hello,  Steve,  Mike.  Do  you  have  rides  coming?&quot;  She  did  not  seem  to  be  offering  one.  \xef\xac\x81l\xe2\x80\x98HEY  drove  away.  Dale  didn't  speak,  because  he  didn't  know  how  his  mother  felt.  When  the  silence  start-  ed  making  him  uncomfortable,  she  said,  &quot;'Those  men  were  very  nice.&quot;  Dale  said  nothing.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  make  an  issue  out  of  this  thing,  Dale,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;because  I  think  it  was  only  a  kind  of  prank.  But  I  think  I  have  a  right  to  know  about  it,  and  I  want  you  to  tell  me  what  went  on  in  your  mind.  Why  did  you  ever  do  it?&quot;  He  was  relieved  to  find  he  was  not  being  blamed.  He  said  it  was  just  a  prank  and  that  they  hadn't  had  any-  thing  to  do  and  that  it  was  Mike  who  threw  the  rock,  He  said  everybody  hated  the  cabins  being  there  anyway.  She  didn't  respond  to  his  reasons,  and  he  thought  he  probably  hadn't  explained  well  enough.  &quot;I  won't  tell  your  father  when  he  comes  back,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  suppose  you'd  prefer  that  I  didn't.&quot;  He  felt  still  more  relieved,  though  he  hadn't  thought  that  possible.  He  wasn't  even  disturbed  when  he  realized  she  would  tell  his  father  but  ask  him  not  to  act  on  the  information.  &quot;I'm  not  going  to  punish  you.  I  think  you're  tooold  for  that  and  should  work  this  out  for  yourself  to  your  own  satisfaction.  But  I  want  you  to  do  some     " b"thinking  about  it  in  the  next  few  days  before  he  comes,  and  though  I'm  not  forbidding  it,  perhaps  you  shouldn't  go  sailing.  I'm  not  trying  to  punish  you,  but  it  seems  somewhat  irresponsible  to  go  off  without  a  pause  and  start  enjoy-  ing  yourself  as  if  nothing  had  hap-  pened.&quot;  Dale  thought  what  he  had  done  wasn't  of  great  significance,  and  he  was  glad  people  were  going  to  let  him  alone,  now  it  was  over.  He  felt  very  thank-  ful  that  she  hadn't  demanded  the  scene  he'd  been  dreading,  and  that  she  was  un-  derstanding  and  trusting  enough  not  to  worry  over  him.  But  he  was  annoyed  at  her  by  the  time  they  were  home  because  he  was  not  entirely  convinced  that  she  wasn't  just  covering  her  real  feelings.  The  following  morning,  the  boys  be-  gan  repairing  the  damage  they'd  done,  the  police  having  considered  this  punish-  ment  sufficient  for  them.  While  Mike  went  into  town  for  the  windowpane,  Steve  and  Dale  stayed  at  the  cemetery  to  right  the  gravestones.  But  the  heavy  slabs  were  more  than  they  could  lift,  and  they  waited  a  long  time  until  Mike  came  back  on  the  bus  with  the  glass.  They  had  all  been  denied  theuse  of  their  family  cars  for  the  errand.  They  spent  the  rest  of  the  day  in  the  cabin  repairing  the  window,  and  the  tombstones  were  left  until  morning.  'The  woman  in  the  cabin,  a  large,  graying  Midwesterner,  hadn't  beenhurt  by  the  rock,  and  in-  stead  of  being  angry  with  them  she  talked  for  several  hoursabout  religion.  Dale's  mother  didn't  mention  the  window-breaking  again.  'They  ate  their  meals  together,  saying  little  to  each  other,  and  he  spent  most  of  the  day  out  of  the  house.  But  he  realized  in  a  day  or  two  that  she  couldn't  get  what  he  had  done  out  of  her  head  and  kept  won-  dering  what  it  meant.  He  himself  felt  a  little  ill  when  he  thought  of  it,  and  small,  but  he  thought  it  was  stupid  for  her  to  think  of  them  as  a  bunch  of  de-  linquents;  he  hadn't  done  much  himself  and  wanted  to  forget  the  whole  thing.  He  missed  sailing,  and  was  further  an-  noyed  by  the  thought  that  he  did  his  deepest  thinking  alone  in  a  boat.  THE  evening  after  they  righted  the  tombstones,  Dale's  mother  asked  him  if  he  wanted  to  meet  his  father  at  the  airport  with  her,  and  the  next  day  they  drove  to  town  in  the  afternoon.  Dale  drove  because  he  thought  he  might  want  something  to  do  during  the  trip.  His  mother  was  nervous,  and  when-  ever  a  car  put  on  its  brakes  in  front  of  them,  she  braced  her  foot  against  the  slanting  part  of  the  car  floor.  When  he  stepped  on  the  brake,  she  relaxed.  Twice  she  said  &quot;Look  .  ..&quot;  before  she  caught  herself.  He  had  never  seen  her  so  nervous  about  his  driving.  It  made  him  angry.  He  could  feel  her  holding  on  to  her  thoughts,  thinking  about  him,  and  trying  to  know  what  in  him  had  caused  him  to  go  wrong,  and  where  she  had  failed  as  a  mother.  Though  she  said  nothing,  the  injustice  of  what  she  was  doing-and  pretending  not  to-  made  him  angrier  and  angrier,  until  he  wanted  to  hurt  her.  &quot;For  God's  sake,  will  you  stop  mak-  ing  something  of  it  so  you  can  forgive  me  for  it?&quot;  he  said.  She  was  so  heartbroken,  and  her  apology  was  so  touching,  that  he  was  as  sorry  he'd  spoken  as  he  had  been  fright,  ened  three  days  before.  Tears  came  to  her  eyes,  and  she  said  she  couldn't  help  worrying  about  his  getting  into  trouble.  She  had  always  tried  to  be  a  good  moth-  er,  she  said.  Didn't  he  know  she  loved  him  no  matter  what  he  did?  He  forgave  her,  sorry  that  he  had  thought  her  unjust.  He  tried  to  insist  that  she  take  the  wheel,  but  he  contin-  ued  driving  to  the  airport,  because  she  overrode  his  objections. "