 b'"Don\'t make excuses, make good. &quot;  That  was  the  sign,  in  large  block  letters,  tacked  to  the  wall  above  the  blackboard.  To  save  her  breath,  Mrs.  Viola  Sheppard,  who  was  my  General  Math  teacher  at  the  junior  high  school  I  attended  in  Top-  penish,  [REDACTED],  would  turn  and  point  to  it.  In  my  case,  though,  in  our  late-afternoon  sessions  when  just  the  two  of  us  were  present,  she  would  not  point  to  the  sign.  She  would  get  up,  walk  wearily  to  the  classroom  win-  dow,  and  look  out.  Then,  after  a  minute  or  two,  her  patience  under  control,  she  would  return  to  her  desk  where  I  waited,  take  the  yellow  Ticonderoga  No.  2  pencil  out  of  her  neatly  water-  waved  hair,  sighheavily,  and  begin  the  explanation  all  over  again.  Like  others  of  her  profession  who  were  insufficiently  paid  to  cope  with  me,  she  resorted  to  such  phrases  as  &quot;thinking  cap,&quot;  &quot;wrong  again,&quot;  &quot;common  sense,&quot;  &quot;pay  atten-  tion,&quot;  &quot;apply  yourself,&quot;  &quot;don\'t  you  see?  ,&quot;  and  &quot;what\'s  so  hard  about  that?&quot;  That  was  thirty  years  ago.  Twen-  ty-eight,  to  be  precise.  Or  perhaps  twenty-seven.  (I  just  spent  fifteen  min-  utes  trying  to  figure  out  when  I  was  in  the  eighth  grade.  I  must  have  used  the  wrong  subtrahend,  or  minuend.  I  for-  got,I  fear,  to  put  on  my  thinking  cap.)  Mrs.  Sheppard  inherited  me  from  a  long  line  of  math  teachers,  all  of  whom  must  have  warned  her  that  I  was  com-  ing.  Her  good  friend  Miss  Marie  V.  Smith,  for  whom  I  had  turned  in  some  astonishing  performances  with  compass,  protractor,  and  ruler  only  the  year  be-  fore,  would  most  certainly  have  men-  tioned  my  case.  And  Mrs.  Iris  Dahl-  man,  a  conscientious  and  generous  soul  who-counting  after-school  sessions  back  in  the  fourth  grade-had  given  me  two  years  of  long  division  in  the  span  of  one,  would  surely  have  told  her  what  she  was  infor.  Mrs.  Alice  B.  Clark  had,  by  that  time,  long  since  retired  from  the  Top-  penish  school  system,  or  she  too  could  have  tipped  Mrs.  Sheppard  off.  It  was  in  Mrs.  Clark\'s  second-grade  class  that  I  was  such  a  model  ofdeficiency  when  it  came  to  flash  cards.  For  this  daily  drill,  we  moved  to  the  front  of  the  room  and  sat  in  a  semicircle  of  little  blue  chairs.  Mrs.  Clark,  a  tall,  bony  woman,  towered  over  us  with  her  cards.  Every-  one  else  would  sing  out  the  answers  in  chorus  the  instant  a  new  card  came  up.  &quot;Fourteen!&quot;  &quot;Ten!&quot;  &quot;Three!&quot;  &quot;Sev-  en!&quot;  Not  I.  By  the  time  I  had  the  solu-  tion  to  one  card  there  was  a  new,  baffling  one  before  me.  Even  my  occa- ' b"   sional  right  answer,  blurted  out  as  a  |:  solo,  sounded  wrong.  Poor  Mrs.  Clark,  her  head  cocked  to  compensate  for  a  hearing  loss,  would  turn  to  me,  drop  the  cards  to  her  side,  and  glower.  When  I  think  of  arithmetic  and  math  teachers,  I  think  of  flashing  cards,  flashing  eyes,  sighs,  signs,  and  sticks  of  chalk  breaking  under  stress  against  blackboards.  HAT  do  I  do  now  when  faced  with  figures?I  do  the  very  best  I  can,  with  fingers,  guesses,  and  taps  of  ||  my  pencil.  The  taps  are  the  most  essen-  tial.  Let's  say  we  have  a  seven  ina  column  offigures  to  be  added.  Now,  [|  you  undoubtedly  know  how  to  handle  a  seven-something  from  your  fash-card  days.  I,  on  the  other  hand,  can  only  tap  my  pencil.  Seven,  in  my  mind,  is  made  up  of  two  groups  of  taps.  I  tap  four  times,  pause,  then  tap  three  times.  That's  seven,  I  believe.  Now  comes  an  eight.  Two  groups  of  four  taps  each.  Six,  two  groups,  three  each.  Two  is  easy-tap,  tap.  One  is  one.  Nine  is  a  mess;  one  group  of  four  taps  and  a  sec-  ond  of  five  sound  easy  enough,  but  I  always  forget  which  I  did  first,  the  four  or  the  five,  and  end  up  with  eight  or  'A  ten  instead  of  nine.  When  I  am  able  to  set  up  the  problem  myself,  I  put  '{  down  three  threes  instead  of  the  figure  E|  nine.  I  have  become  aware,  by  watching  my  wife  and  others,  that  there  is  some  intricate  system  of  short  cuts  in  arith-  metic,  but  I  am  not  privy  to  it.  Take  zeros.  Everyone  seems  to  eliminate  .]  them,  or  cancel  them,  or  pretend  they're  not  there  while  multiplying  or  dividing.  I  don't.  I  carry  them  with  me  at  all  times,  like  a  passport,  right  to  the  end  of  the  trip.  If  I  multiply  50,000,  say,  by  10,  I  set  it  up  (on  paper)  with  all  the  zeros,  and  through  my  head  runs  a  long,  rhythmic  recitation:  'Zero  times  zero  is  zero,  zero  times  zero  is  zero,&quot;  etc.,  clear  over  to  zero  times  five  is  five.  Then  I  start  with  one.  &quot;One  times  zero  is  zero,  one  times  zero  is  zero,&quot;  etc.,  and  then,  finally,  &quot;one  times  five  is  five.&quot;  As  for  decimal  points,  I  am  not  even  one  tenth  of  one  per  cent  (1.10%)  sure  of  what  a  decimal  point  is.  I  read  recently  of  some  new  technique,  associ-  ated  with  an  electronic  computer,  and  known  as  &quot;floating  decimal  point.&quot;  To  me,  this  was  not  new.  The  decimal  points  in  my  life  have  always  floated,  bobbing  up  and  down,  just  a  little  out  of  reach.  |  I  know  some  other  math  words  &quot;scalene,&quot;  &quot;sosceles,&quot;  &quot;trapezoid,&quot;  &quot;dodecahedron,&quot;  &quot;multiplicand,&quot;  &quot;di-  visor,&quot;  &quot;perimeter.&quot;  I  love  to  say  &quot;par-  allelogram,&quot;  and  &quot;two  to  the  tenth,&quot; " b"and  &quot;bisect&quot;  and  &quot;trisect&quot;  and  &quot;cosine,&quot;  but  having  said  them  I  have  reached  the  limit  of  what  I  am  able  to  do  about  them.  No  matter  how  ill-prepared  one  is  for  it,  life  has  a  way  of  going  on,  flowing  sometimes  in  strange,  unfamiliar  chan-  nels,  rippled  occasionally  by  an  obstruct-  ing  boulder,  but  flowing  nonetheless.  My  mind  travels  back  upstream  to  some  of  my  boulders.  HERE  was  the  time  I  was  em-  ployed  as  bookkeeper  fora  freight  agent.  I  was  a  senior  in  high  school,  and  the  job  required  only  an  hour  or  two  every  afternoon.  The  owner  of  the  business  was  a  gentle,  hard-working  fellow  with  gray  hair,  a  Bull  Durham  sack  in  the  pocket  of  his  blue  denim  shirt,  a  severely  limited  education,  and  two  Chevrolet  trucks.  In  addition  to  conducting  a  hauling-and-moving  busi-  ness,  he  was  the  local  agent  for  a  large  motor-transport  company.  Shipments  came  and  went  daily,  and  the  prepara-  tion  of  freight  bills,  manifests,  and  re-  ports  relating  to  the  shipments  was  my  task.  My  daily  errors  mounted  rapidly  right  from  the  beginning.  I  tapped  my  way  through,  knowing  that  every  cal-  culation  was  probably  wrong  but  that  skilled  accountants  somewhere  in  dis-  tant  offices  would  check  my  figures.  At  the  end  of  every  month,  I  was  to  send  in  a  report  to  the  head  office  in  [REDACTED].  This,  from  my  boss's  viewpoint,  had  but  one  purpose-to  determine  the  total  amount  owed  the  company.  I  was  to  arrive  at  that  figure  by  deducting  his  cartage,  or  hauling  commission,  from  the  month's  receipts,  Then  I  was  to  write  out  a  check  for  the  difference,  present  it  for  his  signature,  and  mail  it  to  the  company  along  with  the  report.  Now,  I  have  said  that  my  boss  had  little  schooling.  He  referred  to  the  hand-  written  memo  bills  that  accompanied  shipments  as  &quot;minneos,&quot;  and  he  once  called  me  on  the  phone  with  an  urgent  request  to  make  out  a  minneo  for  a  shipment  of  &quot;Venatine&quot;  blinds.  But  he  did  have,  as  they  say,  a  head  for  figures.  Enough  of  a  head,  that  is,  to  come  in  shaking  it  a  few  days  after  I  had  sub-  mitted  my  first  monthly  report.  &quot;Somethin's  real  wrong,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  have  a  damn  bean  in  the  bank.  Not  a  bean!  We  had  a  good  month  last  month,  and  I  got  nothin'  for  it.&quot;  We  soon  found  out  why.  I  had  failed  to  deduct  the  cartage,  thus  providing  him  with  no  income  whatever  for  the  whole  month's  operation.  He  had  to  pay  his  other  driver.  He  had  lots  of  bills  " b"to  pay,  and  no  money.  I,  by  contrast,  had  done  quite  well.  The  system  of  pay-  ment  for  my  services  was  based  on  the  number  of  freight  bills  handled.  I  had  counted  the  bills  (as  well  as  I  was  able),  made  out  a  check  to  myself,  and  my  boss  had  signed  it.  The  only  beans  __  that  month  had  gone  into  my  bag.  It  surprised  everyone  but  me  when,  thirty  days  later,  I  made  another  error,  this  time  cheating  myself.  After  that-  quite  remarkably,  I  think-I  managed  to  tap  my  way  through  work  for  more  than  a  year,  and  then  I  went  off  to  col-  lege.  153  Two  years  later,  I  took  a  summer]  __  ___  job  in  a  corn  cannery  where  one  of  my  sisters  was  employed  in  the  office.  I  was  assigned  to  the  scales,  where  the  trucks  laden  with  corn  drove  up  in  an  almost  endless,  day-and-night  procession.  I  had  a  splendid  title:  weighmaster.  And  it  turned  out  that  my  supervisor  would  |  be  my  sister.  'The  job  itself  looked  sim-  ple  enough,  except  that  I  had  to  learn  to  operate  a  calculating  machine.  Under  my  sister's  tutelage,  I  soon  felt  I  could  take  command,  and  after  a  couple  of  hours  I  assumed  my  position  at  the  scales.  These  were  automatic;  all  I  had  to  do  was  insert  a  card  and  the  weight  would  be  automatically  stamped  on  it.  Then  I  had  to  deduct  the  weight  of  the  truck  and  write  down  the  net.  The  cal-  culator-  Well,  it  is  not  surprising  that  I  forget  exactly  what  it  was  used  for;  it  had  something  to  do  with  figuring  the  amount  being  paid  for  corn  that  day.  Percentages,  or  ratios,  were  involved.  I  plunged  in,  confident  that  machines  would  be  doing  the  hard  part.  I  sailed  through  my  work  the  first  day,  and  at  the  end  of  my  shift  I  went  happily  home  to  dinner.  My  sister,  though,  didn't  arrive.  She  didn't  get  home  until  almost  ten  o'clock,  and  when  she  came  in,  there  was  trou-  ble.  I  was  responsible  for  her  late  arriv-  al.  I  was  the  one  whose  careful  records  indicatedthat  more  corn  had  arrived  that  day  than  the  cannery  could  ever  process  in  an  entire  week.  Since  every-  one  strongly  suspected  that  this  had  not  actually  happened,  the  conclusion  was  " b"that  something  had  gone  wrong  at  the  scales.  Four  people,  in  fact,  had  worked  for  four  hoursuntangling  the  weigh-  master's  records.  Why,  my  sister  wanted  to  know,  did  I  think  I  had  been  told  to  keep  track  of  the  weights  of  the  trucks  if  not  to  de-  duct  them  from  the  gross  tonnage?  I  had  difficulty  thinking  of  excuses.  Per-  haps  the  weight  of  one  truck  was  too  much  to  tap  out  before  another,  even  heavier,  one  showed  upon  the  scene?  I  didn't  really  know.  The  next  day,  I  tried,  with  a  bit  more  success,  to  keep  everything  straight.  But  every  hour  or  so  my  sister  came  to  lean  over  my  shoulder,  to  check  upon  me.  She  did  that  all  the  rest  of  the  summer.  RUCKS,  corn,  cartage,  teachers,  trapezoids,  and  subtrahends-sad  symbols  from  days  long  gone.  But  fig-  ures  remain  in  my  present  and  loom  up  in  my  future.  As  I  nudge  close  to  what  by  my  probably  faulty  calculations  would  seem  to  be  middle  age,  I  find  it  increasingly  difficult  to  steer  conversa-  tions  away  from  figures,  from  precipices  that  I  know  would  leave  me  hanging  by  one  finger.  (I  have  to  keep  all  fingers  free.)  Imagine  me  at  a  restaurant  lunch  table  when  four  men  toss  ten-dollar  bills  toward  me  and  say,  &quot;&quot;You  pay  it  this  time.&quot;  They  will  be  climbing  into  a  taxi  while  I'm  still  tapping  out  the  tip.  Think  of  my  rapid,frenetic  tapping  asI  attempt  to  convert  foreign  currency  in  an  airport  gift  shop,  with  a  plane  about  to  take  off.  Two  years  ago,  a  friend  called  up  to  sayshe  was  moving  from  her  apartment  and  would  sell  my  wife  and  me  four  panels  of  antique  mirrors  we  had  always  admired.  The  price  would  be  very  low.  Did  we  want  to  buy  them?  &quot;Yes,  sure  we'll  buy  them,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;All  right,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Measure  your  wall,  and  then  come  up  and  see  if  they'll  fit.&quot;  I  measured  the  wall.  I  jotted  the  fig-  ures  on  a  piece  of  paper,  and  went  to  see  our  friend  and  measure  the  mirrors.  In-  tended  to  cover  a  wall  area  from  floor  to  ceiling,  the  panels,  according  to  my  figures,  would  be  eight  and  a  half  inches  too  short.  &quot;We'll  take  them  anyway,  though,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  can  build  a  shelf  or  a  plant  stand  or  something  along  the  bottom.  They'lllook  wonderful  in  the  entry.&quot;  I  wrote  out  a  check  and  called  the  glass-movers.  The  panels  arrived  the  next  day.  &quot;Just  stand  them  right  there,  against  that  wall,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;That's  where  we're  going  to  have  them  installed.&quot;  &quot;Can't  stand  them  up  against  the  wall,&quot;  said  one  of  the  men.  &quot;'They're" b"too high.  Have  to  lay  'em  down  some-  wheres.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  too  high?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;'They're  eight  and  a  half  inches  too  short.&quot;  He  shook  his  head,  then  fixed  me  with  a  look  not  unlike  the  one  I  have  seen  so  often-the  rather  pitying,  indul-  gent  half  smile.  Which  flash  card  was  up?  Which  wrong  tap  had  I  tapped?  The  mirrors  were  mounted  on  ply-  wood;  maybe  I  should  have  figured  things  in  board  feet?  &quot;Putthem  on  the  floor  then,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Someone  gave  me  the  wrong  measure-  ment.&quot;  I  winced,  thinking  of  dear  Mrs.  Sheppard  and  her  sign.  The  mirrors  lay  on  the  floor,  under  the  piano,  for  nearly  a  year  before  I  could  bring  myself  to  do  something  about  them.  Finally,  I  called  a  company  specializing  in  such  work,  and  some  men  came  and  worked  all  day,  measur-  ing,  cutting,  and  fitting.  I  think  they  srade  a  mistake.  There  is  bare  wall  space  at  the  top.  I  think  they  cutthe  mirrors  three  inches  too  short.  But  I  don't  say  anything  about  it  to  anyone.  \\V  hat's  a  small  mistake,  after  all?  Still,  the  bare  space  bothers  me.  Late-  ly  I've  been  wondering  if  I  couldn't  cover  it  up  with  something.  A  sign,  per-  haps,  in  big  block  letters?  I  think  it's  just  about  wide  enoughand  long  cnough,  but  I'll  have  to  ask  someone  to  check  and  see. "