 b"MIKE  sometimes  pictured  to  him-  M  self  a  field  freshly  plowed,  sides  of  furrows  reflecting  the  light,  the  soil  moist  and  dark.  Some-  times  he  also  imagined  an  expanse  of  green-some  kind  of  grass  or  ferns-  but  he  mostly  thought  of  living  dirt  when  he  thought  of  anything  at  all  be-  yond  the  gray-and-soot  reality  of  con-  crete  under  his  feet  and  walled  around  him  in  New  York.  Mike's  name  was  really  Miguel;  at  the  age  of  ten  he  had  come  from  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  now  he  was  twenty-five  and  pushed  a  grocery  cartfora  store  on  upper  [REDACTED].  He  lived  with  a  young  woman  named  Maria,  in  a  rooming  house  with  a  green  canvas  marquee  that  had  the  words  &quot;''The  Great  Western  Ritz  Hotel&quot;  on  it.  While  cart-pushing,  Mike  occasion-  ally  thought  of  his  woman,  or,  rather,  his  mind  produced  forms  stimulated  by  Maria's  existence;  he  would  see  vari-  ous  geometrical  shapes-abstract,  trans-  parent,  and  emptv-and  they  were  all  kinds  of  Maria.  There  was  mother  Maria,  a  towering,  curving  sphere  that  moved  all  around  him,  visible  every-  where  like  a  many-in-one,  monstrous  balloon;  there  was  sister  Maria,  in  sharp  black  lines  and  arrows,  some  go-  ing  away  and  some  coming  toward  him  and  some  like  ladders  or  sidewalks,  side-  walks  such  as  those  he  pushed  his  cart  on.  There  was  wife  Ma-  ria,  a  series  of  restless  cir-  cles  of  various  sizes  mov-  ing  together  and  drawing  apart,  bouncing  from  one  to  another,  spiralling,  drawing  him  to  them.  There  was  also  a  vague  Maria,  a  Maria  of  All  Women,  thousands  of  curving  lines  jerking  and  floatingpast  on  both  sides  of  him,  and  in  front  and  behind,  and  he  would  reach  out  in  his  imagination  and  grasp  at  them,  but  never  touch  or  halt  any.  The  [REDACTED]  Ricans  who  did  not  know  Mike  personally  thought  he  was  a  Negro  because  of  his  dark  skin,  and  the  Negroes  thought  he  was  a  [REDACTED]  Rican  because  of  his  long  sideburns  and  his  pointy  shoes,  and  perhaps  also  be-  cause  of  his  ovine  eyes,  whose  gaze  was  so  mild  that  a  person  hardly  felt  a  glance  at  all.  Upper  [REDACTED]  citizens,  thus  blandly  accosted  by  Mike's  weightless  stare,  which  came  from  between  rows  of  canned  goods  in  the  store  where  he  worked,  or  from  behind  his  rusty-  wheeled  cart,  cared  little  whether  he     was  [REDACTED]  Rican,  or  Negro,  or  both,  or  neither.  They  knew  he  was  dark,  the  way  they  knew  the  asphalt  of  [REDACTED]  was  black.  His  long  sideburns  and  his  repeated  &quot;Hey-hey&quot;  meant  lit-  tle  to  anyone.  The  corner  cop  would  say,  &quot;Hi,  Mike,&quot;  and  Mike  would  re-  ply,  &quot;Hey,  copper-0,&quot;  and  that  was  the  end  of  it.  Mike  worked  for  Brownstein's  Food  Market:  &quot;Any  Thing  You  Want  We  Have  or  WillGet.&quot;  It  was  a  combina-  tion  grocery,  dairy  store,  butcher  shop,  and  chicken-on-a-spit  ninety-cight-  cents-apiece  (none  higher)  enterprise,  known  locallyas  the  &quot;Anything&quot;  because  of  the  words  &quot;Any  Thing&quot;  painted  large  on  a  sign  over  thedoor.  Brownstein  thought  of  Mike  as  ex-  tremely  useful  in  the  store,  and  as  re-  liable  but  slow  to  return  when  on  deliv-  ery.  On  hot  days,  he  and  Mike  would  have  a  beer  in  the  carton-jammed  cellar.  When  Mike  returned  late  from  deliveries,  Brownstein  would  say,  &quot;&quot;You  been  all  the  way  to  43756261  already?&quot;  While  Mike  piled  goods  onto  shelves,  a  goitrous,  gravel-voiced  woman  would  caw,  &quot;Where  asparagus?,&quot;  or  another  would  mutter,  &quot;Those  sale  carrots  you  had  on  sale  carrots  I  don't  see  them!&quot;  Mike  eyed  them  softly,  and  replied  al-  ways,  &quot;Hey-hey.&quot;  Then,  in  their  [REDACTED]  -flat  talk,  they  would  repeat  their  plaint  in  frustrated  ire,  as  if  expecting  noth-  ing  from  Mike;  they  would  neigh,  &quot;Caaar-  rots!  Baaa!&quot;  &quot;Hey-hey,&quot;  said  Mike.  He  would  pic-  ture  in  his  mind  a  geo-  metrical  shape  of  the  woman  whose  oral  excre-  tions  he  had  just  heard.  There  was  nothing  difficult  about  this  life,  and  it  provided  a  stead-  ily  low  standard  of  liv-  ing.  Mike's  trouble,  which  had  nothing  to  do  with  living  standards,  centered  onMaria,  who  either  sucked  him  into  herself  until  he  disappeared  (picture  of  a  swallowing,  quicksand  Maria  )  or  sent  him  against  the  far  wall  with  tongue-  spears  of  shout  and  cry  (picture  of  fire  engines  and  flames).  &quot;Hey-hey,  baby,  let's  not  be  fighting  all  the  time,&quot;  he  would  say.  His  protests  were  a  thin  shield.  HIS  morning,  Maria  was  at  him  again.  &quot;Lazy  cart-pushing  bum!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;You  could  improve  yourself,  study  television  repair  by  correspondence  " b"course  like  Feliz  ,  or  see  Valdez  about  that  a  uto  mechanic's  job.  You  pushing  a  car  t,  pushing  a  cart!&quot;  Th  e  words  clamored  into  Mike's  mind,  pictorially  embodied  as  ocean  waves  (for  &quot;push-  ing,&quot;  he  heard  the  &quot;sh  &quot;)  and  as  a  pile  of  lumber  col  lapsi  ng  (for  &quot;cart,&quot;  he  hea  rd  board  s  crashing,  and  then  the  boa  rds  were  floatin  g  in  the  ocea  n,  to  become  waterlogged  and  then  gray  d  riftw  o  od).  Beyond  the  line  of  the  se  a  was  the  land,  the  mo  ist  soil,  so  he  shut  of  f  Maria's  taunts  a  nd  recalled  the  soft-  ness  of  the  earth.  A  little  later,  he  real-  ized  that  Maria  was  still  shouting,  and  in  surprise  he  said,  &quot;Hey-hey,&quot;  and  went  out.  His  street  was  lined  with  choked  gar-  bage  cans,  and  u  pon  the  a  sphalt  was  chalked,  &quot;ROYAL  KNIGHTS.&quot;  The  street  slanted  down  f  rom  West  En  d  Avenue  to  a  roadway  par  allel  to  River-  side  Drive.  Mike  watched  a  ga  rbage  truck  humming  and  cla  nking  and  whin-  ing  as  it  chewed  up  the  mammoth  re  -  mains  of  the  local  low  standard  of  li  ving  (garbage  men  shouting  d  uck-shaped  imprecations  and  encouragemen  ts  at  one  another)-enough  paper  and  tin  and  rinds  a  nd  peels,  Mike  thought,  for  fourteen  billion  billy  goats.  On  his  way  to  work,  he  said  to  himself,  in  a  rare  access  of  concrete  supposition,  &quot;A  green-faced  woman  will  lean  down  to  me  as  I  squat  p  iling  away  cans  of  Ger-  ber's  Strained  Prunes,  and  she  will  cr  oak,  'The  gefiillte  fisch,  you  have  a  special?&quot;  &quot;  Mike  now  pictured  them  in  their  jars  and  said,  &quot;Hey,  oh  no!&quot;  But  once  at  work  he  w  as  sent  out  im-  m  ediately  o  n  deli  very.  He  pushed  his  heavy  cart  up  Broad-  way  and  then  down  a  side  street  toward  West  End,  pu  shed  it  a  hundred  times  up  and  down  the  Atla  ntic  City  board  -  walk,  pushed  it  at  seventy  miles  an  hour  over  the  Pennsylvania  Turnpike,  pushe  d  it  out  West  via  the  Union  Pacific  tracks,  and  then  crossed  West  End,  and  there  on  his  own  s  treet  peered  down  towa  rd  his  rooming  house,  wi  th  Maria  inside  thinking  trapezoids  at  him.  Mi  ke  peered  down  the  street  toward  some  scrawn  y  trees  in  a  strip  of  park.  Deep,  black  dirt  lay  there;  he  imagined  rows  of  sugar  cane,  a  nd  saw  [REDACTED]  Rican  sun  and  clear  sky  above,  and  thought  of  the  depth  of  the  black  di  rt.  He  saw  himself  as  a  baref  oot  kid  run-  ning  through  the  rows  of  cane,  black  dirt  soft  but  buoyant  under  his  feet.  He  stood  as  if  handcuffed  to  the  push  bar  of  his  cart,  now  a  ten-year-old  [REDACTED]  Rican,  skin  darkened  by  that  blue-sky  sun,  and  he  looked  down  between  the  flat  cliffs  of  buildings  toward  the " b"rectangle  of  earth  visible  at  the  end  of  the  street.  The  garbage  men  were  still  crashing  cans,  and  their  machine  whirred  and  buzzed.  Suddenly  the  driver  hopped  into  the  cab  and  let  off  the  brake,  and  the  voracious  truck  rolled  mindlessly  into  a  parked  car  with  a  tear-  ing  crunch  that  leaped  up  to  Mike's  ears  like  nine-pointed  stars  dropping  on  rusty  zigzags.  Mike  shouted,  &quot;Hey-hey,&quot;  and  gave  his  cart  a  joining-up  shove  down  the  hill.  Its  steel  wheels  bounced  avidly  down  the  street,  past  shouting  garbage  men  and  car  owners,  until  it  picked  out  a  parked  car  of  its  own  to  bang  into;  it  hit,  turned  over,  spilled  groceries  in  a  heap,  and  sent  shiny  cans  rolling  fast  and  free  in  various  downhill  tangents.  Mike  ran  past,  shouting  &quot;Hey-hey,&quot;  all  the  way  down  the  block  and  into  the  little  park,  away  from  Brownstein's  pea-  green,  mush-voiced  customers,  away  from  Maria's  birdy  cries,  and  he  fell  upon  the  dirt,  the  life  dirt,  and  hid  from  the  eyeless  concrete  and  lacerating  shout-shout  hoo-hoo  what-what  where-  where-went  to  the  dirt,  and  with  his  hands  scratched  into  it  to  bury  himself,  to  feel  moist  dirt  around  him  to  pro-  tect  him,  to  bring  the  dirt  into  him-  self,  with  its  nourishing  warmth.  As  he  lay  there,  pulling  and  digging  at  the  stubby  grass,  he  heard  the  pompous,  unhappy  carnival  of  blam-blam  car-,  horn  honking,  and  mind-etching  needle  of  police-car  siren,  and  catatonic  hate  cries  of  lawsuit-minded  owners  of  bust-  ed  sheet  steel,  proprietors  of  cars  at-  tacked  and  bitten  by  garbage  truck  and  grocery  cart-garbage  men  and  Mike  thus  joined  in  an  unarranged  complicity  in  kicking  in  the  shiny  ends  and  bulbous,  pastel  sides  of  some  of  the  million  tons  of  Americanious,  all-god  Metal  that  lined  both  sides  of  the  street.  Hey-hey.  iIkKE  could  not  dig  himself  a  fox-  hole,  manhole,  grave  with  only  his  hands.  He  sat  up,  his  cupped  hands  full  of  dirt,  and  he  looked  closeat  it,  brought  it  to  his  nose  and  mouth,  and  smelled  it.  It  was  cool,  like  the  [REDACTED]  Rican  dirt  he  had  run  on  as  a  kid.  He  tasted  it.  Now  he  saw  an  unfocussed  swarm  of  people  running  toward  him.  A  swelling,  New  York  bleat  was  upon  him;  Maria  was  shouting  at  him,  and  the  garbage  men  were  crashing  cans  at  him.  He  bit  into  the  dirt,  and  swallowed,  and  choked,  and  people  crowded  around  him.  &quot;Get  up  on  your  feet,  [REDACTED];  cried  Maria.  &quot;Is  that  your  cart?&quot;  asked  a  drawn-  faced  man,  pointing  up  the  hill.  He  was  a  dented-car  owner.  Mike  thought  it  " b"was  the  car  that  made  ugly  all  the  old  dirt  that  had  collected  on  it.  The  cop  said,  &quot;What's  the  matter,  Mike?&quot;  Someone  said,  &quot;What  is  it?  What  did  he  do?  Is  somebody  hurt?&quot;  Mike  picked  up  another  handful  of  the  good  dirt,  and  bit  into  it.  He  thought  of  the  dirt  now  inside  him  as  a  bird  moving  into  the  air.  Was  there  really  a  warmth  of  blue  air  anywhere?  He  didn't  ask  himself.  But  it  was  a  pleas-  ing  idea,  almost  erasing  the  pain  of  his  choking.  Hands  tugged  at  him,  and  the  variform  Maria  commanded,  &quot;Stop  eating  that  dirt!&quot;  In  spite  of  those  en-  ticing  concentric  circles  that  she  could  become,  Mike  wriggled  free,  and  as  he  backed  out  of  her  reach  he  felt  down  and  pulled  up  a  handful  of  grass.  Then  he  lay  back  and  put  the  grass  into  the  mud  that  was  still  in  his  mouth.  He  watched  the  Maria-crowd  move  upon  him,  but  his  gaze  was  unremon-  strative.  What  the  hell,  he  thought.  Hey-hey.  The  strident  blast  of  Buick  klaxon,  the  mewling  gripe  of  No-Cal-  hunting  housewife,  the  steel-and-con-  crete  racket  of  grocery  cart  were  all  waiting  for  him.  (And  lateat  night  there  were  sometimes  good  sounds,  dis-  tant  hoots  of  ships  on  the  river,  or  the  whonk-whonk  of  a  diesel  somewhere  in  the  [REDACTED].  Save  those.  Go  with  the  peo-  ple.)  He  looked  up  at  them,  the  grass  in  his  mouth.  &quot;You  jerk,&quot;  Maria  said.  &quot;'Take  that  grass  out  of  your  mouth  and  get  up!&quot;  Mike  took  out  the  grass,  and  sat  up  and  spat  out  the  mud.  He  stood  up  and  faced  the  hill,  and  the  dented  cars,  and  the  overturned  cart.  As  he  walked  back  to  it  all,  he  pictured  his  discarded  grass  as  fast  green  blades  flowing  from  him  into  bluesky  and  moist  soil. "