 b"SOMETIMES  I  try  and  retrace  the  miles  that  I  have  covered  in  my  life  to  see  if  I  can  find  one,  or  a  fraction  of  one,  that  I  belong  to,  of  which  I  am  part,  as,  say,  the  fruit  sellers  at  the  market  are  part  of  the  city  where  I  live.  But  to  my  dismay  I  find  I  can-  not  stop  long  anywhere-not  in  4974616c79,  where  I  was  born  and  reared,  or  in  England  and  [REDACTED],  where  I  went  to  school  and  college,  or  here  in  the  Unit-  ed  States,  where  I  have  chosen  to  live,  or  in  any  other  country  I  have  been  to.  Swiftly,  I  go  over  the  miles  looking  for  one  that  will  hold  me.  Surely  there  must  be  one-not  one  I  own  but  one  that  owns  me-a  field,  a  plot  of  ground,  some  tiny  spot.  I  don't  find  any.  Still,  I  can't  quite  believe  it.  I  ascribe  it  to  my  present  mood.  I  must  go  at  the  mat-  ter  more  slowly,  think  of  all  the  places  I've  been  to,  one  by  one,  carefully.  Now,  let's  see,  isn't  there  somewhere?  Methodical,  mile-by-mile  retracing  is  a  tedious  process,  and  I  can't  carry  it  far.  At  first  I  start  from  where  I  was  born,  then  I  start  from  now,  and  in  cither  direction  I  find  myself  skipping.  Whether  I  am  looking  for  a  mile  or  a  pin,  that's  what  happens  when  I  try  to  be  systematic.  I  do  find  some  stepping  stones,  to  be  sure-a  tiny  island  on  a  Canadian  lake,  places  in  almost  each  city  I've  been  to,  hideouts,  secret  corners  I  knew  as  a  child-but  they  are  only  good  for  a  momentary  and  unstable  pause.  I  want  a  place  where  I  can  stop  and  stay,  and  not  skip  off  from.  Suddenly,  unexpectedly,  I  find  one.  It  is  a  terrace  on  a  steep  and  rocky  slope  overlooking  the  sea.  I  came  to  it  by  chance  one  day  early  in  October  two  years  ago,  after  I  had  driven  with  my  wife  from  Rome  to  Porto  Santo  Ste-  fano,  a  small  seaport  on  the  north  side  of  the  Monte  Argentario,  the  promontory  on  the  coast  of  Tuscany,  between  Leghorn  and  Rome.  The  road  that  connects  the  mainland  to  this  little  town  continues  beyond  it  for  a  few  miles,  climbing  steeply  up  the  mountain  but  keeping  always  in  sight  of  the  sea.  Itis  a  new  road,  and  they  call  it  &quot;strada  panoramica,&quot;  or  scenic  route.  Someday  it  will  follow  thesea  along  to  Porto  Ercole,  a  small  harbor  on  the  south  side  of  the  moun-  tain,  and  so  complete  the  ring  around  the  promontory,  but  for  now,  owing  to  lack  of  funds,  it  ends  abruptly  high  above  the  shore,  several  miles     short  of  its  goal.  I  drove  to  the  end  of  it  the  morning  after  we  arrived  in  Porto  Santo  Stefano.  My  wife,  who  was  convalescing  from  a  hard  Septem-  ber,  had  stayed  behind  in  the  hotel.  There  were  no  houses  in  sight,  and,  except  for  a  field  just  below  the  road,  the  slope  of  the  mountain  all  the  way  down  to  the  sea,  about  a  mile  away,  looked  wild  and  untouched.  I  started  to  walk  down.  It  was  one  of  those  clear  October  days  on  which  one  can't  feel  sad  that  the  summer  has  ended-the  mountain  shone  above  me,  and  the  sea  below  me;  the  grass  I  brushed  through  also  shone,  being  light  and  dry,  having  lost  all  of  its  greenness,  and  being  smooth  and  moved  by  the  wind.  On  the  field,  ripe  little  tomatoes,  too  small  for  the  farmer  to  bother  with,  shone  here  and  there.  I  picked  one  and  sucked  its  juice,  and  it  was  so  tasty  I  picked  another  two.  Farther  down  weresome  rows  of  vines.  Their  leaves  were  turn-  ing  crimson.  Some  were  crisp  and  brit-  tle  round  the  edges,  others  were  still  soft  and  green.  The  grapes  had  all  been  gathered,  except  at  one  corner  of  the  vineyard,  where  I  was  surprised  to  find  a  vine  from  which  several  large,  conspicuous  bunches  still  hung.  Though  of  a  white  variety,  the  grapes  were  so  ripe  that  they  looked  almost  red,  and  matched  some  of  the  colors  of  the  leaves  about  them.  I  thought  that  perhaps  they  had  been  left  on  the  plant  to  make  some  special  wine,  and  I  refrained  from  picking  a  whole  bunch.  The  slope  got  steep  and  wild.  I  had  to  open  a  way  with  my  arms  through  thick  bushes  of  mountain  laurel,  or  hunch  up  and  walk  backward  through  the  brambles.  Soon  the  bushes  were  so  call  and  thick  I  was  quite  hidden,  and  couldn't  see  the  sun  or  the  mountain  or  the  sea.  The  ground  was  carpeted  by  moss,  and  Isat  down.  Sitting  under  that  roof  of  foliage,  in  the  silence  of  that  wide  green  chamber,  I  felt  as  though  I  had  disappeared,  or  sunk  into  oblivion,  and  that  to  come  to  myself  again  I  had  to  rise  andgo  on.  Almost  regretfully,  I  did  so.  Suddenly  a  thin  blacksnake  glistened  like  a  streak  of  oil  on  the  ground  in  front  of  me  and  slid  up  the  incline,  a  wonder  of  locomotion.  In-  stantly,  I  became  more  alert;  I  picked  up  a  stick  and,  slashing  it  about  in  front  of  me  to  scare  away  any  more  snakes  that  might  lie  on  my  path,  I  went  on  through  the  bushes,  impatient  to  come  to  the  end  of  them.  Finding  that  the  slope  tended  to  be  clearer  on  my  left,  I  went  that  way  along  a  horizontal  shelf  untilI  reached  a  creek.  The  water  trickled  down,  almost  hidden  in  the  fur-  row  it  had  created.  It  made  a  straight  and  smooth,  if  steep,  path  to  the  sea.  I  followed  this,  jumping  down  small,  muddy  waterfalls  until  I  came  to  one  that  was  too  high  to  jump,  and  here,  as  I  made  a  little  detour  to  the  right  around  the  creek,  I  found  myself  among  orange  trees  upon  a  terrace.  It  was  a  narrow  shelf  of  level  ground  cleared  of  all  bushes  and  carved  into  the  slope.  A  stone  wall  supported  it  from  below.  Be-  tween  the  trees,  some  rocks  too  large  to  be  removed  rose  from  the  ground  like  keels  and  prows.  Besides  the  oranges,  there  were  lemons,  pomegranates  set  against  the  slope,  a  palm,  a  few  olive  trees,  prickly  pears,  and,  scattered  here  and  there  among  the  weeds,  some  hardy  garden  flowers-chrysanthemums  in  bloom,  and  amaranths.  The  oranges  were  still  green,  but  the  lemons  were  ripe,  and  the  pomegranates  were  so  ripe  that  some  had  fallen  on  the  ground,  and  those  that  were  still  on  their  branches  showed  deep  cracks.  One  was  split  open  andhad  shed  some  of  its  seeds;  a  few  of  these  lay-brown  instead  of  crim-  son-straight  below  it.  I  picked  a  pomegranate,  broke  it,  and  bit  into  a  cell  of  succulent  and  pulpy  seeds.  I  wondered  whose  this  terrace  could  be.  And  why  the  unpicked  fruit?  Was  it  forsaken?  Were  pome-  granates  worthless  on  the  market?  But  what  about  the  lemons?  'They  were  ripe.  And  those  flowers-did  they  grow  from  seed,  year  after  year?  With  these  questions  in  my  mind,  I  followed  a  barely  traceable  zigzag  path  to  the  sea,  which  was  only  about  a  " b"hundred  feet  down  from  the  terrace.  The  creek  formed  a  sandy  inlet  in  the  rocky  shore.  Its  trickle  of  water  was  enough  to  keep  the  ter-  race  fresh,  its  sand  enough  for  a  rowboat  to  land  on  safely,  and  I  thought  thata  fisherman  or  a  sailor  with  an  in-  ward  longing  for  land  had  eyed  the  creek  and  the  narrow  shelf  beside  it,  and  built  the  terrace  and  planted  fruit  trees  there.  Certainly  it  was  much  more  accessible  from  the  sea  than  over-  land.  Soon,  I  thought,  perhaps  in  a  few  days,  he  will  row  over  from  Porto  Santo  Stefano  in  a  lit-  tle  boat,  land  at  the  inlet,  and  climb  up  to  his  ter-  race  with  a  basket.  I  could  almost  see  him-  an  old  man  wearing  a  beret  and  blue  jeans,  tired  of  being  tossed  around  by  waves  and  stormy  weather.  I  returned  to  the  ter-  race,  picked  another  pomegranate,  put  it  in  my  pocket,  and  then  be-  gan  to  climb  back  up  the  slope  along  the  creek.  During  rainstorms,  it  must  become  a  wild  and  roaring  torrent,  but  now  it  came  down  drop  by  drop  and  I  found  no  pool  deep  enough  to  drink  clear  water  from.  The  water  became  muddy  at  the  slightest  touch,.  When  I  saw  the  vineyard-way  to  my  left-  I  was  too  thirsty  to  consider  the  special  wine  the  farmer  might  have  had  in  mind  for  the  grapes  left  on  the  single  vine,  and  I  went  over  to  it.  I  picked  the  rosiest-looking  bunch  that  I  could  see,  and  ate  it  not  with  my  fin-  gers  but  thirstily,  by  holding  the  bunch  against  my  mouth  and  bitinginto  it  as  though  it  were  an  apple.  It  was  sweet  almost  to  excess,  havinghad  more  than  the  usual  time  in  which  to  ripen,  and  having  drawn  from  sun  and  earth  and  air  all  the  flavor  they  could  give.  I  threw  the  bare  bunch  of  stems  into  the  air  and  picked  another  cluster.  Not  being  as  thirsty,  I  walked  up  the  incline  holding  it  in  my  hand  and  plucking  the  grapes  slowly,  one  by  one.  I  hadn't  gone  far  when  I  saw  an  old  man  with  a  hoe  com-  ing  toward  me.  He  wore  a  shirt  whose  color,  bleached  by  the  sun,  had  faded  to  a  light  and  rosy  hue-similar  to  that  of  the  grapes  that  I  was  eating.  His  trousers  were  the  color  of  dry  earth.  He  cer-  tainly  looked  as  if  he  belonged,  and  I  felt  timid  with  my  stolen  grapes.  He  walked  slowly,  looking  at  the  ground,  and  I  thought  I  had  better  say  something  before  he  did.  &quot;I  picked  this  bunch  of  grapes  down  there,&quot;  I  said,  pointing  at  the  corner  of  the  vineyard.  &quot;''There's  avine  that  still  has  all  its  grapes.&quot;  He  nodded.  &quot;That's  all  right,&quot;  he  said,  and  from  the  way  he  spoke-with  a  kind  smile-I  knew  that  he  wouldn't  have  said  anything  about  the  bunch  of  grapes.  &quot;Why  wasn't  that  vine  picked?&quot;  I  asked  him.  He  brought  the  hoe  down  from  his  shoulder  to  the  ground  and  rested  on  it.  &quot;We  always  leave  one  vine  unpicked,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;For  the  stranger.  It  is  an  ancient  custom.&quot;  &quot;Oh,&quot;  I  said.  'Yes,  it's  supposed  to  bring  us  luck  for  the  next  season.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;Well,  I  hope  this  brings  you  luck-  here  I  am,  a  stranger,&quot;  I  said,  raising  the  grapes  as  though  they  were  already  wine  and  I  were  toasting.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  repeated,  almost  apologetically,  &quot;It  is  an  ancient  custom.&quot;  &quot;I  went  all  the  way  down  to  the  sea,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Whose  is  that  terrace  near  the  mouth  of  the  creek  with  oranges,  lemons,  and  pomegranates-all  un-  picked?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  you've  been  down  there,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  fisherman  from  Porto  Santo  Stefano  planted  those  trees  when  there  was  no  road  up  here  and  all  this  slope  was  wild.  He  didn't  buy  theland,  though.  Until  this  road  was  built,  no-  " b"body  cared.  But  the  value  of  land  now  has  risen,  and  the  owner  here  told  him  that  it  wasn't  his.&quot;  &quot;Not  his?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;And  no  one  picks  the  fruit?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;It's  too  far  down  the  slope  for  a  few  trees.  He  used  to  go  there  by  boat,  of  course.  It  was  all  right  for  him.&quot;  I  left  the  farmer  and  went  up  the  slope,  wishing  I  could  buy  the  terrace  and  give  it  to  the  fisherman.  I  thought  of  him,  of  his  carefully  choosing  the  land  near  the  mouth  of  thecreek,  of  his  clear-  ing  the  bushes  away  and  digging  up  all  the  rocks  that  weren't  too  deep-set  and  massive  to  be  removed,  of  his  building  the  supporting  wall  and  planting  the  trees  and  the  flowers,  and  then,  when  the  trees  had  begun  bearing  fruit,  being  told  to  go.  I  pictured  the  man  who  had  bought  the  land-probably  some  big-  paunched  contractor  from  Rome  or  Grosseto,  who  had  got  it  from  the  gov-  ernment  for  very  little.  I  had  an  idea  it  would  be  sold  in  lots  as  Porto  Santo  Stefano  expanded  and  that  coast  be-  came  more  and  more  fashionable.  Al-  ready  there  were  new  little  villas  a  mile  or  two  from  the  town,  and  others  were  rising  just  around  the  corner  from  here.  One  could  be  sure  that  in  a  few  years  this  uninhabited  slope  would  have  its  as  stone,  silent,  grave,  oblivious  of  all  you  make  them  tell.  Tomorrow,  words  begin.  own  gleaming  white  little  houses,  and  a  serpentine  road  running  all  the  way  down  to  the  sea.  The  fisherman,  I  was  thinking,  should  have  gone  farther,  around  the  next  point,  where  perhaps  he  could  have  come  to  the  end  of  his  years  undisturbed.  Or  had  all  this  coast  be-  come  so  valuable  that  there  was  no  ledge  left  from  which  he  wouldn't  be  ousted?  Perhaps  it  was  so,  and  he  should  have  stuck  to  fishing  and  the  sea,  which  be-  longed  to  no  man  and  every  man,  and  off  which  only  stormy  weather  could  sweep  him.  With  these  thoughts  in  mind,  I  drove  back  to  Porto  Santo  Stefano,  Once  or  twice,  as  I  thought  of  the  terrace,  I  wished  I  could  buy  it  for  myself,  for  it  corresponded  in  every  detail  with  what  I  desired-oranges  were  my  fa-  vorite  trees;  it  was  on  the  sea  and  was  backed  by  a  high  mountain  whose  name  (Argentario)  suggested  to  me  rocks streaked  with  silver;  since  it  looked  west,  there  would  bea  view  of  the  sun  setting  over  the  Island  of  Giglio  or  the  sea,  depending  on  the  time  of  the  year;  it  was  on  a  promontory  (an  island  with  an  avenue  of  escape,  my  favorite  land  formation  ),  and  it  was  in  Tuscany,  al-  most  equidistant  from  Siena  and  Rome;  it  had  a  creek,  a  stone  wall,  an  inlet;  there  were  olive  trees.  ...  &quot;Even  if  I  could  buy  it,  though,&quot;  I  said  to  myself,  &quot;I  would  feel  like  a  trespasser,  like  a  usurper-I  would  never  be  able  to  keep  it.&quot;  HAT  evening,  strolling  with  my  wife  along  the  waterfront  of  one  of  the  two  crescent-shaped  harbors  of  the  little  town,  I  saw  many  fishermen,  some  sitting  on  benches,  others  talking  to  one  another  and  standing  in  little  circles  opposite  a  tfieet  of  moored  fishing  boats  and  in  between  mounds  of  brown  nets.  I  approached  one  who  was  alone,  a  dark  and  sinewy  middle-aged  man  wearing  a  blue  sweater  and  a  beret  tilted  to  cover  most  of  his  forehead.  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  I  said  to  him.  &quot;A  few  miles  around  the  coast,  in  the  direction  of  Porto  Ercole,  I  came  to  a  little  terrace  on  the  sea  with  fruit  trees  on  it.  I  wonder  if  you  know  who  built  it.  I  hear  it  was  a  fisherman  from  here.&quot;  " b"&quot;'That  one,&quot;  he  said,  pointing  to  a  manwho  was  sitting  alone  two  benches  over-a  big,  brawny  man  with  hoary  hair,  wide  lips,  and  a  sullen  look.  We  went  over  to  him.  &quot;'That  fisher-  man  over  there,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;told  me  that  you  built  the  terrace  on  the  sea  I  saw  this  morning  down  from  where  the  new  road  ends.&quot;  His  face,  which  at  first  had  seemed  opaque  to  me,  lightened  in  all  its  fea-  tures.  &quot;Have  you  been  up  there?&quot;  he  asked,  speaking  as  one  would  who  was  used  to  approaching  it  from  below.  &quot;'Yes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It's  a  fine  terrace,  and  those  are  beautiful  trees  that  you  planted.  But  is  it  true  that  they  won't  let  you  pick  them?&quot;  &quot;'That  land  doesn't  belong  to  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;So  I've  heard,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  think  it's  an  injustice.&quot;  &quot;Why?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  isn't  my  prop-  erty.  I  went  there  thinking  no  one  would  ever  care.  I  recognize  I  made  a  mistake.&quot;  They  should  let  you  pick  the  fruit  you  planted.&quot;  He  shrugged  his  shoulders.  \xc2\xab'That  terrace  belongs  to  you  more  than  to  anybody  else.&quot;  He  shook  his  head  and  looked  out  to-  ward  the  sea,  his  face  impassive.  Then  he  turned  to  me.  &quot;When  you  work  land  that  isn't  yours,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;that's  what  you  have  to  expect.&quot;  He  continued  look-  ing  at  me,  as  though  to  see  if  I  could  reply.  I  couldn't.  I  could  only  nod.In  my  pocket  I  still  had  the  pomegranate  I  had  picked.  &quot;This  is  from  your  terrace,&quot;  I  said,  offering  it  to  him.  &quot;Give  it  to  the  signora,&quot;  he  said,  looking  at  my  wife.  We  thanked  him  and  left.  &quot;Surely,&quot;  I  said  to  my  wife,  &quot;that  land  is  his.&quot;  &quot;He  doesn't  think  so.&quot;  &quot;But  it's  his,  nonetheless-in  a  way  altogether  irrelevant  to  whoever  has  bought  it.&quot;  &quot;Irrelevant  to  him,  too,  I'm  afraid.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know.  I  am  sure  he  returns  to  it  again  and  again  in  his  thoughts-lands  there,  goes  up  and  sits  under  a  tree,  gathers  the  fruit  in  his  basket.&quot;  &quot;I  can  see  that  youw  do,  &quot;'You  are  co-owners.&quot; "