 b"AT  intervals,  a  subterranean  rumble  approached,  swelled  to  a  roar,  died  away.  The  floor  shook,  the  windows  rattled,  the  glass  dome  over  the  clock  whiningly  vibrated,  the  cur-  tains  sidled  as  though  an  invisible  hand  had  twitched  them.  Directly  below  No.  27  Ulster  Crescent,  where  Miss  Miriam  Turner  had  come  to  inspect  a  furnished  bed-sitting  room  and  kitchen-  ette,  ran  the  Metropolitan  and  District  Line,  the  first  and  nearest  to  the  surface  of  the  [REDACTED]  undergrounds.  &quot;No-  body  even  notices  the  trains  after  the  first  week,&quot;  averred  Mrs.  Palmer,  the  owner  of  the  house,  though  the  recollec-  tion  that  three  lodgers  in  a  twelvemonth  had  moved  elsewhere  because  the  noise  was  too  much  for  them  made  her  the  readier  to  &quot;meet&quot;  Miss  Turner  over  the  rent.  Having  met,  it  seemed  a  few  mo-  ments  later  that  the  two  ladies  must  im-  mediately  part.  Holding  Miss  Turner's  card  at  arm's  length  as  though  per-  spective  might  enable  her  to  take  a  broader  view  of  it,  Mrs.  Palmer  con-  tinued  to  shake  her  head.  &quot;Not  that  I  object  in  any  way,  you  understand.  I'm  interested  in  that  sort  ofthing.  I'm  a  bit  psychic  myself.  But  a  professional  card  on  the  front  door,  even  though  it's  the  top  bell  and  could  be  urged  as  less  conspicuous-that's  something  we've  never  had  before,  and  I  don't  know  how  my  other  lodgers  would  take  it.  We've  never  had  anything  but  pri-  vate  cards,  you  see.  In  fact,  it's  quite  a  feature.&quot;  She  fell  silent.  She  had  chosen  a  bad  moment  to  do  so,  for  another  train  was  approaching.  When  it  had  gone  by,  having  done  its  worst,  Miss  Turner  asked  if  the  noise  was  always  as  bad  as  this.  &quot;Oh,  no!  Oh  dear,  no!  It's  because  of  the  rush  hour.&quot;  Seeing  that  Miss  Turner  was  now  studying  the  cracks  in  the  ceiling,  and  aware  that  very  soon  another  train  would  approach  from  the  opposite  di-  rection,  Mrs.  Palmer  read  the  card  aloud.  &quot;  'Madame  Miriam  Turner,  Palmiste  and  Graphologist.'  I'm  sure  I  don't  know.  Besides,  there's  the  police.  What  about  them?&quot;  Ostentatiously  raising  her  voice  as  another  rumble  swelled  to  a  roar,  Miri-  am  Turner  said,  &quot;I  am  not  a  fortune-teller.&quot;  In  fact,  that  was  precisely  what  she  was.  And  as  one  can-  not  practice  fortune-telling  with-  out  considerable  insight  into  what  people  are  thinking  and  wishing,  she  knew  that  if  she  held  out  and  let  the  trains  do  their  work,  Mrs.  Palmer  would  give  way.  AFTER  several  months  Miriam  Turner  was  still  noticing  the  trains-or  else  noticing  that  she  was  not  noticing  them.  In  a  way,  this  was  the  more  disturbing.  To  be  unconscious  of  anything  so  insistent  set  her  on  a  level  with  those  clients  who  were  so  hard  pressed  by  their  desires,  their  fears,  their  circumstances,  that  they  had  ears  for  nothing  buther  words  and  the  porten-  tous  silences  in  between.  Such  clients  were  almost  invariably  single  women  and  no  longer  young.  Miriam  Turner  was  a  single  woman  and  in  her  fifties  But,  of  course,  there  was  no  real  similarity.  The  clients  did  not  notice  the  trains,  be-  cause  something  more  urgent  was  clam-  oring  in  their  minds.  When  she  did  not  notice  the  trains,  it  was  because  she  was  growing  used  to  them.  And  when  other  clients,  less  at  the  mercy  of  their  feel-  ings,  commented  on  the  noise  and  won-  dered  how  she  could  concentrate  on  what  she  was  doing,  she  replied,  &quot;But  I  don't  even  notice  it,&quot;  in  a  voice  which  implied  that  she  was  above  being  dis-  tracted  by  anything  so  trivial.  Though  it  was  important  to  preserve  this  aura  of  otherworldliness,  her  outlook  was,  in  the  main,  honest  and  mercantile,  People  wanted  their  money's  worth,  whether  in  the  form  of  entertainment,  excitement,  solace,  awhiff  of  the  Devil,  or  plain  straightforward  flattery;  and  having  found  out  how  they  liked  it,  she  did  her  best  to  supply  it.  Even  when  they  came  to  amuse  themselves  by  catching  her  out  and  seeing  through  her,  she  would  give  them  a  good  run  for  their  money.  But  with  those  who  wept  and  trembled  and  besought,  and  insatiably  demanded  as-  surance,  and  stayed  for  hours  pouring  out  their  troubles  and  their  cravings  and  their  disgraceful  rancors-for  many  were  more  avid  to  be  told  of  ill  fortune  awaiting  others  than  of  good  fortune  awaiting  themselves-the  process  was  sometimes  oddly  reversed,  and  the  good  run  given  to  Miriam.  In  mid-course  of  guessing  what  they  wished  her  to  sup-  ply  and  supplying  it,  she  would  be  swept  on  into  a  further  region  that  was  neither  supply  nor  extemporization  but  instead  a  kind  of  idiot  infallibility,  so  that  she  seemed  to  be  reading  off  their  tense  faces  sentences  in  a  language  un-  known  to  her,  and  only  realizing  their  applicability  by  the  acceptance  with  which  they  were  heard.  'That  was  how  she  had  first  begun-or,  as  she  phrased  it  in  grander  moments,  had  first  dis-  covered  her  gift-sitting  in  a  stiflingly  hot  tent  at  the  West  Hampstead  church  bazaar;  for  the  usual  fortune-teller  failed  at  the  last  moment,  and  Miriam  Turner,  newly  an  ardent  member  of  the  congregation  of  St.  Simon  and  St.  Jude,  had  volunteered  to  replace  her.  Swathed  in  bright-colored  scarves  and  not  wearing  her  spectacles,  she  had  gazed  into  a  bowl  of  violet  ink  and  let  herself  go,  supplying  in  the  generosity  of  success  not  only  thrilling  futures  but  spells,  charms,  and  incantations.  A  queue  gathered  outside  the  tent,  and  no  less  than  three  pounds  seven  and  six-  pence  crossed  her  hand  in  silver-a  tes-  timony  that  heightened  the  disapproval  of  the  Turners,  who  were  Chapel  by  adherence  and  rationalist  by  persua-  sion.  &quot;We  shall  never  hear  the  last  of  this,&quot;  said  Leonard,  her  half  brother.  &quot;Madame  Zara,  indeed!  As  if  anyone  would  take  you  for  a  Madame  Zara,  with  Father's  nose  all  over  your  face.&quot;  Leonard  was  right.  Whether  it  was  the  rector  who  betrayed  her  or  the  late  Mr.  Turner's  nose,  the  church-bazaar  gypsy  was  soon  identified  as  Miriam  and  her  stepmother's  house  invaded  by  strangers  clamoring  for  more  spells,  since  the  green  ribbon  tied  to  the  cur-  rant  bush  had  proved  so  efficacious,  or  for  further  light  on  the  future,  since  a  lady  from  43616e616461and  wearing  a  sari  had  come  in  the  very  day  after  the  new  moon  and  bought  an  upright  piano.  A  reporter  who  trapped  Mrs.  Turner  on  her  doorstep  got  short  shrift.  Neverthe-  less,  a  totally  misleading  account  ofthe  interview  came  out  in  the  evening  paper  under  the  heading  &quot;HOW  IT  FEELS  TO  MOTHER  A  SPHINX,&quot;  and  this  led  to  such  a  row  royal  that,  having  observed  an  ostentatious  fast  on  the  vigil  of  SS.  Simon  and  Jude,  Miriam  left  home  on  their  feast-heaping  added  shame  on  the  name  of  Turner  by  going  to  a  local  hotel  asa  chambermaid.  From  chambermaid  to  barmaid,  from  barmaid  to  dentist's  receptionist,  from  dentist's  receptionist  to  keeping  a  sec-  ond-hand-clothes  shop,  from  that  to  the  post  of  dresser  at  a  thea-  tre,  she  went  her  zigzag  course,  never  foreseeing  where  she  would  get  to  next,  and  infal-  libly  arriving  where,  in  fleet-  ing  contacts,  hearts  would  be  opened,  tongues  loosened,  and  such  subjects  as  dreams,  portents,  " b"hares'  feet,  and  the  planets  come  under  discussion.  Chance  or  instinct  kept  her  away  from  professional  occultists.  When  a  grateful  client  (to  whom  she  had  sup-  plied,  via  the  planets,  racing  tips  impart-  ed  by  another  client,  a  bookie  who  re-  sorted  to  her  in  matters  of  the  heart)  left  her  a  sum  of  money  that  made  her  semi-  independent,  Madame  Miriam  Turner,  Palmiste  and  Graphologist,  set  upwith  little  more  knowledge  than  Madame  Zara,  though  with  the  experience  of  twenty  years'  hit-or-miss  practice.  She  knew  better  now  than  to  discard  her  spectacles,  A  gray-haired  woman  in  a  woollen  cardigan  inspires  more  faith  than  a  seeress  in  flowing  veils.  Her  only  attempt  at  disguise  was  to  combat  her  naturally  spare  physique,  since  people  find  it  easier  to  confide  in  a  plump  bosom  than  in  a  bony  one.  Fortunately,  starchy  foods  are  cheap.  She  picked  her  first  lodgings  in  the  neighborhood  of  St.  Pancras  and  King's  Cross,  having  in  view  the  hardheaded  businessmen  from  the  Midlands-a  very  profitable  line-who  would  arrive  by  those  termini.  It  was  also  a  good  neigh-  borhood  for  cheap,  starchy  meals;  and  as  time  went  on,  this  advantage  out-  weighed  the  other.  The  income  that  in  1953  hadseemed  so  buoyantly  support-  ing  was  degraded  in  1958  to  a  pittance  by  the  rise  in  the  cost  of  living.  Televi-  sion  had  swept  away  the  clients  who  came  from  curiosity  or  for  entertain-  ment.  Some  of  her  regulars,  hopeful  to  the  last  that  the  future  had  delightful  surprises  in  store  for  them,  had  died.  Others  had  left  [REDACTED],  saying  that  [REDACTED]  was  no  longer  what  it  was.  Miriam's  clientele  was  no  longer  what  it  was,  either.  Like  [REDACTED],  it  was  full  of  foreigners:  West  Indians,  Spaniards,  and  Italians  with  labor  permits,  or  refu-  gees  from  Eastern  Europe.  Though  her  approach  to  the  refugees  was  faithfully  correct;  though  she  told  herself  that  they  were  brave,  right-minded,  unfortunate,  and  that  it  was  a  mercy  they  had  got  away;  and  though  she  also  told  her-  self  that  all  were  fish  who  came  to  her'  net,  she  never  felt  easy  with  them.  They  daunted  her-they,  ora  sense  of  their  misfortunes.  Mutely,  they  held  out  a  thin  palm  or  a  letter  in  a strange  language.  Mistrustfully,  they  watched  her,  staring  as  if  they  would  pluck  the  lie  from  her  mouth  before  she  had  spoken  it;  and  as  soon  as  she  spoke,  they  hardened  their  faces  as  if  what-  ever  she  might  say  would  be  an  insult  or  a  denial.  Yet  in  almost  all  of  them  she  sensed  a  gaping,  cavernous  credulity  that  went  beyond  any  she  had  encountered  before,  even  in  the  most  desperately  lovelorn,  even  in  the  most  desperately  hate-rid-  den.  If  it  could  have  broken  through  their  rigid  mistrust,  it  might  have  set  free  in  her  the  gift  that  had  declared  it-  self  at  the  church  bazaar;  and  then  they  would  have  believed  her-even  if  they  had  only  understood  one  word  in  ten,  their  belief  would  have  rushed  to  meet  her.  But  they  kept  it  penned  up  like  a  wild  beast,  and  sat  waiting  to  see  how  little  she  could  do.  Speaking  slowly  and  distinctly  and  in  simple  language,  she  told  them  that  a  handwriting  showed  determination,  honesty,  alove  of  mu-  sic,  or  that  the  lines  in  the  hand  told  of  sorrows  and  dangers  in  the  past,  many  partings,  many  journeys-but  that  a  further  journey,  a  journey  across  an  ocean,  would  bring  prosperity  and  an  unlooked-for  happiness.  Her  words  van-  ished  into  their  expectation  like  straws  in  afurnace.  They  paid  her,  and  went  away.  Some  of  them  implacably  came  again  and  again.  She  began  to  sleep  badly.  She  grew  thinner;  omens  pressed  themselves  upon  her  attention.  She  told  herself  that  she  was  getting  imaginative.  She  bought  a  budgerigar  for  company.  Like  an  omen,  it  died.  She  bought  a  flowerpot  to  bury  it  in,  and  a  miniature  rose  to  plant  above  it.  The  rose  drooped,  and  shed  its  leaves.  She  thought  she  would  try  going  to  church-it  was  a  long  time  since  she  had  been  in  a  church.  As  she  entered,  her  glance  was  attracted  toa  painted  window.  On  a  scroll  below  the  figure  ofa  young  man  seated  dejectedly  under  a  small  palm  tree  were  the  words  &quot;I  will  arise  and  go  to  my  Father.&quot;  That  was  it!  Leonard!  Leonard's  com-  mon  sense,  his  good,  plain,  pudding  character,  was  what  she  needed.  She  would  arise  and  go  to  Leonard-for  a  week  or  ten  days.  She  did  not  think  she  could  endure  him  for  longer  than  that.  She  spent  the  rest  of  the  service  com-  posing  the  letter  that  convention  de-  manded  should  be  addressed  to  Leon-  ard's  Olwen,  the  young  woman  with  a  placid  disposition  and  serviceable  legs  whom  Leonard  had  married  rather  late  in  life.  It  was  a  letter  that  required  composition,  as  she  had  not  been  near  them  since  they  moved  out  to  Rick-  mansworth  ten  years  back,  and  at  no  " b" time  had  been  asked  to  spend  a  night  under  their  roof.  But  by  availing  herself  of  former  days,  the  increasing  force  of  family  ties  as  one  grew  older,  often  hav-  ing  thought  of  it  before  but  not  imple-  menting  the  thought  because  of  Olwen's  hands  being  so  full  with  the  twins,  and  a  well-placed  final  admission  of  some-  times  feeling  rather  lonely  and  knowing  what  country  air  would  do,  she  got  the  letter  settled  in  her  mind  before  the  Blessing,  and  wrote  it  that  same  eve-  ning.  Only  after  she  had  dropped  it  in  the  pillar  box  didshe  remember  that  Leonard's  household  included  her  step-  mother.  Certainly  not  longer  than  a  week.  For-  tunately,  she  had  written  &quot;Love  to  [REDACTED];  which  would  cover.  the  old  hag.  Besides,  by  now  she  probably  lay  down  a  good  deal;  Olwen's  plac-  id  disposition  would  have  seen  to  that.  Leonard's  reply,  its  en-  velope  still  intact,  was  in  her  hand  when  the  red-  haired  refugee  strolled  in,  having  found  the  street  door  open  and  walked  up  the  stairs.  He  was  one  of  those  who  implacably  came  again  and  again.  &quot;So  your  bird,  dead,&quot;  he  remarked.  Though  he  was  not  the  only  red-haired  man  among  these  sad  clients,  he  seemed  to  her  red-  haired  par  excellence-  perhaps  because  red  hairs  covered  his  hands  and  bony  wrists,  so  that  in  certain  lights  they  glit-  tered  as  though  cased  in  some  reddish  metal.  With  her  mind  full  of  an  invitation  to  Rick-  mansworth,  how  soon  she  could  get  away,  whether  she  should  get  a  new  hat,  she  found  it  almost  impossible  to  recollect  what  she  had  told  him  last  time;  but  the  journey  across  an  ocean-she  could  rely  on  that.  It  was  the  one  thing  that  never  failed,  the  one  assurance  they  all  wanted  to  hear  and  accepted,  when  they  heard  it,  as  though  it  were  a  due  that  was  being  fraudulent  ly  withheld  from  them.  &quot;When?&quot;  &quot;How  soon?&quot;     To  show  such  a  single-minded  impa-  tience  to  get  away  from  the  country  that  had  received  them  was  not,  to  put  it  mildly,  very  polite;  but,  after  all,  they  had  not  come  to  England  in  order  to  be  polite,  so  why  expect  it  of  them?  Once  again,  Miriam  foretold  a  journey  across  an  ocean,  and  for  good  measure  foresaw  him  in  a  large  car  beside  a  lake.  He  paid  her  and  went  away.  Her  hands  trembled  so  much  that  she  could  hardly  tear  open  Leonard's  firmly  stuck-down  envelope.  How  extraordi-  nary  to  be  trembling  with  excitement  be-  causeof  a  letter  from  Leonard.  &quot;I  must    be  in  a  worse  way  than  I  supposed,&quot;  she  muttered,  and  began  to  read  it.  &quot;My  dear  Miriam,  I  am  very  sor-  ry  ...&quot;  Leonard  was  sorry  to  saythat  a  visit  just  now  would  not  be  practical,  as  Olwen  was  feeling  rather  fagged.  If  Miriam  wanted  country  air,  why  not  go  to  the  sea  and  get  braced  properly?  'That  was  what  he  would  advise.  The  intensity  of  her  mortification  forced  her  to  admit  the  truth.  She  was  indeed  in  a  worse  way  than  she  supposed.  She  was  afraid,  afraidof  this  red-haired  man  and  of  all  he  stood  for.  Her  heart  pounded,  her  knees  shook.  The  few  yards  between  her  and  the  door  seemed  an  insuperable  distance,  but  somehow  she  crossed  it  and  turned  the  key  in  the  lock.  In-  stead  of  making  her  feel  safer,  this  action  im-  paled  her  on  a  sense  of  guilt.  The  noncon-  formist  conscience  of  her  upbringing,  its  cut-  ting  edge  perhaps  all  the  sharper  because  for  so  many  yearsthere  had  been  no  daily  use  to  abrade  it,  slashed  through  her  defenses.  She  was  afraid  because  she  was  guilty.  Daunted  by  these  wretched  be-  ings,  by  their  malad-  justment  and  their  unmanageable  misfor-  tunes,  and  disliking  them  because  their  mis-  fortunes  were  unman-  ageable,  she  had  gone  on  cheating  and  exploit,  ing  them,  taking  their  wretched  money  and  blithely  promising  them  happy  futures-of  what?  Of  being  out  of  sight  and  out  of  mind.  But  what  was  she  to  do?  With  them  on  her  track  and  now  conscience,  too,  where  could  she  turn,  how  could  she  get  away?  &quot;''There  is  nothing  else  forit!&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;I  must  give  it  all  up.&quot;  THERE  is  a  germ  of  comfort  in  ev-  ery  resolution,  if  only  the  sense  of  having  got  it  over  and  survived.  Miriam  fell  asleep  pic-  turing  the  little  cottage  " b'where  she  would  live  on  bread  and  cheese  and  pick  blackberries  on  a  moor.  When  she  awoke,  the  resolution  was  still  there,  and  halfway  to  being  an  accepted  fact.  She  looked  at  what  was  so  familiar  to  her  waking  eyes-the  bleached  gar-  lands  of  the  wallpaper,  the  shabby  furni-  ture,  the  Victorian  washstand  that  did  duty  for  a  dressing  table.  She  would  not  see  them  much  longer.  Good  riddance,  for  they  were  ugly  enough.  When  she  had  found  that  cottage,  she  would  have  to  buy  furniture  for  it-an  item  she  had  forgotten  about  overnight.  Could  she  afford  this?  Where  should  she  go  to  find  thecottage?  It  would  have  to  be  some-  where  remote,  or  it  would  not  be  cheap  enough.  Yet  it  must  not  be  too  tumble-  down;  she  could  not  afford  repairs.  Per-  haps  it  would  be  better  to  find  lodgings  in  a  little  country  town.  While  she  lay  drowsing,  the  answer  to  all  her  diffi-  culties  entered  her  mind  as  calmly  as  sunlight  enters  a  room.  Of  course.  All  she  needed  to  do  was  to  move  to  some  other  partof  [REDACTED]  and  pursue  her  profession  as  before,  but  with  discrim-  ination,  never  again  cheating  any  of  those  unhappy  refugees,  There  was  no  harm  in  telling  the  fortunes  of  British  citizens,  and  they  were  often  made  much  happier  by  it.  Some  of  her  clients  so  methodically  looked  to  her  to  be  made  happier  that  they  came  on  regular  days,  and  if  they  could  not  do  so  wrote  asking  for  a  Everywhere,  anywhere.  change  of  appointment.  To  these  she  sent  notices  of  her  removal  to  Ulster  Crescent;  but  she  left  no  address  at  her  former  lodgings,  explaining  that  she  would  be  travelling  about  in  search  ofa  cottage  and  expected  to  find  one  in  Ire-  land.  She  also  sent  her  new  address  to  Leonard,  expatiating  on  the  peaceful-  ness  and  leafiness  and  airiness  of  the  new  neighborhood,  telling  him  that  she  was  already  quite  a  new  being,  and  hop-  ing  that  Olwen  was  no  longer  feeling  so  fagged.  In  spite  of  still  noticing-or  some-  times  not  noticing-the  noise  of  the  trains,  the  sense  of  living  poised  above  a  recurrence  of  small  earthquakes,  her  vaunt  had  gradually  come  true.  She  had  lost  many  clients  by  her  removal  and  new  ones  were  slow  to  come  in.  But  the  interest  of  beginning  again,  of  building  up  a  career  anew,  gave  her  an  illusion    of  youthfulness.  As  Mrs.  Palmer  said,  it  was  really  quite  a  superior  neighbor-  hood,  and  with  a  superior  class  of  resi-  dents,  since  almost  all  the  larger  houses  had  become  boarding  houses  or  resi-  dential  hotels,  where  elderly  people  of  private  means  could  live  in  comfort  without  being  worried  by  the  servant  problem.  It  was  these  elderlypeople,  yawning  their  heads  off  in  high-ceil-  inged,  cretonne-upholstered  lounges,  that  Miriam  had  her  eye  on.  In  their  quieter  way,  they  would  be  just  as  good  as  the  hardheaded  businessmen  arriv-  ing  from  the  Midlands;  for,  however  elderly,  people  never  grow  tired  of  hear-  ing  about  themselves.  &quot;Palmiste  and  Graphologist&quot;  would  bring  them  in.  Presently,  it  was  doing  so.  The  line  of  life,  the  line  of  the  head,  the  line  of  the  heart-examining  these  pink  palms,  so  smooth,  so  very  clean,  she  fell  at  times  into  a  professional  admiration  at  the  per-  sistence  with  which  the  standard  pat-  tern  was.  distributed  into  such  a  variety  of  substances  and  destinies.  Etched  into  those  roughened  palms  that  had  been  mutely  held  out  to  her,  pencilled  on  these  others  like  a  delicate  ornament,  the  lines,  when  all  was  said,  were  much  of  a  muchness;  it  was  the  condition  of  the  hands  that  told  the  real  story.  As  for  what  you  said,  that  was  pretty  much  of  a  muchness,  too,  except  you  varied  it  to  suit.  Now,  for  instance,  when  she  read  a  journey  across  an  ocean,  she  put  ' b"it  in  the  past.  &quot;You  have  travelled  ex-  tensively.&quot;  Graphology  there  was  not  so  much  call  for.  This  was  a  part  of  the  world  where  people  mainly  received  letters  in  handwritings  too  familiar  to  need  any  analysis.  But  here,  just  as  much  as  anywhere  else,  she  found  the  clients  whom  she  thought  of  as  &quot;the  real  lot'&quot;-the  famished,  the  lonely,  the  insatiably  credulous,  who  hung  on  her  words,  who  did  not  notice  the  trains.  These,  with  their  potentiality  to  release  her  gift,  gave  a  fillip  to  an  existence  that  otherwise  might  have  been  rather  boring.  From  time  to  time,  she  had  night-  mares,  crude  as  afilm  poster,  in  which  there  was  always  a  door  being  broken  open  and  something  thrown  into  the  room-a  bomb,  or  a  mutilated  animal,  or  a  brown-paper  parcel  with  blood  oozing  from  it.  Their  quality  of  recur-  rence  made  them  almost  negligible;  they  were  like  the  noise  of  the  trains  clanging  their  way  under  the  house.  Her  daily  life  went-on  above  them,  her  earnings  increased,  she  made  friends  with  the  local  shopkeepers.  Then,  one  morning,  she  had  a  letter  from  Leon-  ard.  J  ust  like  him,  she  thought,  to  invite  her  to  Rickmansworth  now,  when  there  was  no  longer  any  need  for  it.  Leonard,  however,  proposed  coming  tosee  her.  He  would  come  next  Sunday  after-  noon.  If  it  had  not  been  for  his  clothes,  his  perpetual,  sensible,  hard-wearing  tweeds,  she  would  scarcely  have  known  him.  He  was  thin,  his  hair  was  gray,  his  face  was  gray  and  trenched  with  lines  of  worry  and  misery.  He's  got  cancer,  she  thought.  &quot;Hullo,  Mirrie,  old  girl.  So  this  is  your  new  place?  Good  Lord,  what's  that?&quot;  The  rumble  swelled  to  a  roar,  the  floor  shook,  the  windows  rattled.  &quot;It's  just  the  trains  underneath.  The  District  Line  runs  right  under  the  house,  I  never  notice  it  now.&quot;  &quot;Oh  well,  so  long  as  you  don't  mind-and  it  leaves  off  at  midnight,  of  course.  Yes,  I  should  think  you've     changed  for  the  better.  Airier  than  your  last  place.  Classier,  too.  How's  business?&quot;  &quot;&quot;Not  too  bad.&quot;  &quot;Splendid!  And  you're  looking  well.  Glad  to  see  that.&quot;  But  his  gaze,  wandering  blankly  over  the  room,  had  not  rested  on  her  face.  Whatever  brought  him  here,  it  was  not  anxiety  for  her  health.  &quot;Clever  idea,too,  the  way  the  street  door  opens  on  its  own.  'That  must  save  you  a  lot  of  running  up  and  down  stairs.&quot;  And  whatever  brought  him,  it  was  something  he  was  slightly  ashamed  of,  or  he  would  not  have  been  so  anxious  to  wag  his  tail.  &quot;Yes,  I'm  glad  to  find  you  looking  so  well.  You  know,  Mirrie,  that  visit  you  thought  of  making  us-I  was  real-  ly  upset  at  having  to  put  you  off.  But  as  things  are,  our  house  is  no  place  for  anyone's  holiday.  I  didn't  go  into  it  at  the  time,  but-&quot;  He  took  off  his  muffler,  folded  it  with  extreme  care,  and  laid  it  down  beside  his  hat.  &quot;It's  Mother.  She's  " b"killing  us.&quot;  There  was  an  evening  paper  in  his  pocket.  He  drew  it  out,  smoothed  it,  and  laid  it  near  the  muffler.  &quot;You  never  liked  her,  so  it  will  be  no  surprise  to  you.&quot;  &quot;No.  I  never  liked  her.  She  was  a  bit  too  managing.&quot;  &quot;Managing!  You  should  see  her  now.  Yes,  if  you  want  to  know  what  managing  is,  you  should  see  her  now.  Day  and  night,  Mirric,  she's  at  it.  Nothing's  done  but  she  must  do  it  all  over  again.  When  the  table's  laid  for  supper,  she'll  have  everything  off  be-  cause  it's  the  wrong  cloth.  When  that's  put  right,  the  beetroot  will  be  in  the  wrong  dish,so  it  must  be  changed  into  the  right  one,  and  the  first  dish  washed  up  and  put  away  before  anything  else;  and  after  that,  she'll  have  to  make  a  new  pot  of  tea  because  she's  sure  Olwen  forgot  to  warm  the  pot  beforehand.  We've  no  sooner  got  to  bed  than  she  hears  a  mouse,  ora  tap  left  running,  and  has  us  up  to  deal  with  it.  Or  she'll  go  down  at  three  in  the  morning,  because  she's  remembered  a  pillow  slip  that  wanted  darning  andmust  turn  out  the  linen  cupboard  to  get  at  it.  Then  there's  the  telephone-I  had  it  put  into  save  Olwen,  because  whenever  she  went  out  shopping,  when  she  got  home  she  was  sure  to  find  Mother  moving  all  the  fur-  niture,  or  rehanging  the  curtains,  or  taking  down  the  pictures,  or  taking  up  the  carpet.  Now  Mother's  forever  ring-  ing  up  the  tradesmen  to  counterorder  things,  or  to  say  they're  too  expensive,  or  that  she's  weighed  them  and  they're  short  weight.  And  the  way  she  speaks  to  them!  .  ..  I  suppose  it's  tragic,  really.  I  suppose  it's  left  over  from  after  Fa-  ther's  death,  when  she  worked  so  hard  and  managed  so  well.  But  what  makes  it  so  awful,  Mirrie,  is  how  she  complains  all  the  time,  and  tells  everyone  how  she  has  to  do  this  and  do  that,  and  how  all  the  hard  work  is  left  toher,  and  how  she's  nothing  but  a  slavey  in  her  old  age,  and  works  herself  to  the  bone and  I never  gets a  word  of  thanks  for  it.&quot;  &quot;Poor  Olwen!&quot;  &quot;You  may  well  say  so.  I  tell  you,  Olwen's  life  is  hell.  And  she's  getting  worn  out.  I  never  come  home  from  work  without  expecting  to  find  her  dead.  It's  because  of  Olwen  I've  come  to  you.\xe2\x80\x9d  So  that  was  why  Leonard  had  looked  so  propitiating.  Miriam  stiffened.  &quot;For  her  sake,  and  Leslie's.  You  see,  Leslie's  old  enough  now  to  have  her  boy  friends,  and,  naturally,  she'd  like  to  bring  them  to  the  house.  But  it's  im-  possible,  because  of  the  way  Mother  be-  haves.  You  remember  how  strict  she  was  with  you  and  Kate?  None  of  that  now.  If  a  young  man  comes  to  the  house,  the  way  she  talks  and  nudges  and  draws  his  attention  to  Leslie-it's  downright  disgusting.  She's  worse  than  any  madam  in  a  bawdy  house.&quot;  &quot;Why  can't  Kate  take  her  for  a  bit?  She's  Kate's  mother,  too.&quot;  &quot;That's  no  go-even  if  Kate  would.  You  see,  when  I  married,  she  talked  so  about  old  horses  turned  out  todie  that  I  promised  we'd  always  keep  a  place  for  her.&quot;  He  swallowed,  and  said,  staring  at  the  floor,  &quot;Mirrie!  You  couldn't  give  me  any  idea  how  much  longer  she'll  last?&quot;  Miriam  took  a  step  back-  ward.  He  followed  her,  as  though  it  were  a  figure  in  a  dance.  &quot;I  suppose  you  could  say  that  I've  changed  my  tune.  And  that,  considering  the  past,  it's  a  bit  late  to  come  to  you  for  this  sort  of  thing.  Well,  perhaps  it  is.  I'll  grant  it.  ButI'm  desper-  ate.&quot;  She  felt  as  though  her  will  had  been  dislocated,  A  moment  before,  it  had  seemed  plain  that  Leonard's  intention  was  to  hand  over  some  part  of  his  bur-  den,  and  she  had  resolved  not  to  give  way.  Now  it  was  this.  Yet  instead  of  relief,  a  like  refusal  was  there.  &quot;You  do  it  for  others,  Mir-  rie.  Won't  you  do  it  for  me?&quot;  ~&quot;I  don't  see  how  I  can,  Leonard.  It's  not  that  I  don't  pity  you-but  fortune-telling's  peculiar.  One  has  to  do  it  one's  own  way.  And  a  person  at  Rickmansworth  isn't  the  same  as  a  person  sitting  opposite  one.  I'd  have  nothing  to  go  on.&quot;  &quot;I've  thought  of  that.  You  know  how  one  sometimes  reads  in  the  papers  when  someone's  disappeared  how  they  take  " b"something  belonging  to  that  person  to  a  medium,  toa  clairvoyant.  And  it  puts  her  on  the  scent.  She  sees  a  wood,  or  a  railway  station.  Well,  I've  brought  Mother's  vest.&quot;  He  had  it  in  a  paper  bag,  which  he  took  from  his  pocket.  &quot;Where  shall  I  put  it?'  Here,  on  this  little  table?&quot;  &quot;Oh  hell,  Leonard,  what  am  I  to  say?  I've  never  done  this  sort  of  thing.  Yes,  put  it  on  the  table.&quot;  &quot;And  shall  I  draw  the  curtains?  Would  you  like  me  to  wait  outside?&quot;  &quot;While  I  burn  some  dried  toads?  No,  just  sit  down  and  keep  quiet.  Read  your  evening  paper  or  something,  and  don't  stare  at  me.&quot;  Yes,  of  course.  I'll  read  my  paper.  Mirrie!  Just  a  moment.  Why  are  you  combing  your  hair?&quot;  &quot;It  helps  to  concentrate.  Now  settle  yourself,  and  keep  out  of  it.&quot;  She  sat  down  at  the  little  table,  and  waited  for  her  reluctance  to  pass  before  laying  her  fingers  on  the  vest.  It  was  a  woollen  vest,  with  a  darn  in  it-she'd  know  that  darn  anywhere;  and  it  had  been  worn.  Leonard  must  have  pinched  it  from  the  washing  basket.  Cautiously,  her  fingers  descended.  An  old  woman's  vest.  How  long  would  she  last?  Which  would  bethe  first  to  wear  out,  the  gar-  ment  or  the  woman?  A  smell  of  aged  fiesh,  mingled  with  the  scent  of  violet  talcum  powder,  detached  itself  from  the  vest.  It  made  the  wearer  painfully  actual,  and  Miriam  flinched  away  as  though  her  stepmothers  voice  had  pro-  claimed,  &quot;It's  me.&quot;  Intimidated  by  such  vitality  of  dislike  and  so  much  unwill-  ingness  to  carry  out  this  grisly  perform-  ance,  Miriam  was  on  the  brink  of  saying  she  could  not  go  on.  She  looked  at  Leonard.  A  train  was  approaching;  she  saw  him  clench  his  teeth,  and  remem-  bered  how,  as  a  little  boy,  he  used  to  clench  them  in  just  the  same  way  at  the  taste  of  his  iron  tonic.  And  that  mother  still  had  her  claws  in  him!  No,  she  must  goon  with  it.  She  would  go  on  till  the  next  train,  with  her  fingers  on  the  vest  and  the  smell  in  her  nostrils.  How  long  would  its  wearer  last?  How  long  would  this  smell  make  part  of  the  world?  She  shut  her  eyes  and  struggled  to  make  her  mind  a  blank.  A  blank  it  remained.  The  next  train  approached.  She  re-  laxed  and  looked  round.  Leonard  had  put  down  his  paper  and  was  staring  at  her  with  a  startled  expression.  It  was  as  if  he  had  just  seen  her  in  some  totally  new  light.  Poor  Leonard,  brought  at  last  to  believe  in  her  gift  and  now  to  be  told  that  it  had  no  comfort  for  him.  But  why  should  she  not  say  something  comforting?  She  did  to  others.    &quot;She  won't  last  much  longer,&quot;  she  said.  The  rumble  swelled  to  a  roar,  the  floor  shook,  the  windows  rattled,  and  the  walking  stick  he  had  propped  against  a  chair  fell  with  a  clatter.  The  noise  covered  their  inability  to  find  decent  words  with  which  to  close  a  disgraceful  transaction.  &quot;I'll  make  some  tea,&quot;  said  Miriam,  rolling  up  the  vest.  &quot;No,  thank  you,  I  won't  stay.  I  must  get  back.  Miriam,  I  can't  tell  you  how  grateful  I  am,  what  a  weight  you've  lifted  off  my  mind.  Thank  God  I  came!&quot;  &quot;Does  Olwen  know?&quot;  He  shook  his  head.  &quot;I  couldn't  tell  her-the  strain.  I  don't  think  I  shall  tell  her.&quot;  &quot;Much  wisernot.&quot;  &quot;But  you'll  come-later  on,  you'll  pay  us  that  visit?&quot;  He  put  the  vest  in  his  pocket;  he  wound  the  muffler  round  his  neck.  Miriam  longed  to  be  rid  of  him,  her  gull  and  her  partner  in  an  atrocity.  &quot;Your  hat.  Your  gloves.  Your  pa-  per.7\xe2\x80\x99  &quot;Bless  my  soul!  It  went  clean  out  of  my  head.  Mirrie,  look  at  this!  I  read  it  while  I  was  waiting,  and  it  was  all  I  could  do  not  to  interrupt  you  there  and  then.  No.  17Olcott  Street.  That  was  your  old  place,  wasn't  it?&quot;  WIDOW  BATTERED  TO  DEATH  Early  this  morning,  Mrs.  Sheila  Under-  wood,  who  lives  at  17-C  Olcott  Street,  N.W.  1,  heard  cries  for  help  coming  from  overhead.  She  woke  her  husband,  and  they  ran  upstairs.  The  cries  had  ceased,  but  they  made  their  way  into  the  flat  occupied  by  Mrs.  Flora  Gallagher,  an  elderly  widow  living  alone.  Mrs.  Gallagher  was  lying  on  the  floor,  bleeding  from  wounds  in  the  head  and  face.  A  red-haired  man  stood  beside  her,  grasping  a  coal  hammer.  &quot;I  said  to  him,&quot;  relates  Mrs.  [REDACTED],  &quot;'You  brute,  what  have  you  done  to  her?&quot;  He  didn't  seem  to  hear  me.  My  husband  grabbed  hold  of  him,  buthe  didn't  attempt  to  get  away.  It  didn't  seem  to  oc-  cur  to  him.&quot;  The  police  were  summoned,  and  the  man  was  taken  into  custody.  Mrs.  Gallagher  died  on  the  way  to  hospital.  &quot;I'm  sure  she  never  injured  anyone  in  her  life,&quot;  said  Mrs.  [REDACTED]  later.  &quot;She  was  a  dear  old  lady  and  her  room  was  spotless.  My  children  knew  her  as  Grannie,  and  it  has  upset  them  no  end.&quot;  The  police  have  ascertained  that  the  man  is  Tibor  Keszthely,  aged  thirty-nine,  a  Hungarian  refugee.  &quot;It  might  just  as  easily  have  been  you,&quot;  said  Leonard.  She  nodded.  The  red-haired  man-  she  was  safe  fromhim  now.  An  abject  thankfulness  distilled  from  her  like  a  sweat.  &quot;Yes,.  I  suppose  it  might  have.&quot;  &quot;My  word,  I'm  glad  you  left  that  " b" place  when  you  did.  A  widow,  too,  a  poor  old  widow!  Makes  you  wonder  what's  become  of  the  Ten  Command-  ments.  Well,  Mirric,  I  must  be  off.  I  can't  thank  you  enough.  No,  don't  come  down  with  me.  I'll  see  myself  out.&quot;  It  was  to  be  hoped  he  wouldn't  start  putting  widows  together.  She  walked  over  to  the  window  and  threw  up  the  sash.  The  room  certainly  needed  airing.  It  stank  of  lies,  and  of  blood,  and  of  old  women,  and  of  dis-  grace.  But  it  no  longer  contained  fear.  No  more  nightmares  would  burrow  un-  der  her  days.  When  she  was  sixty  and  could  draw  her  old-age  pension,  she  would  retire,  she  would  wash  her  hands  of  the  whole  thing.  Till  then,  she  would  reflect  on  her  mercies,  and  never  again  say  anything  definite,  anything  that  a  hope  could  be  pinned  on,  that  a  hope  could  be  shattered  on.  There  went  poor  Leonard,  running  away  with  his  booty.  He  went  faster  and  faster,  almost  break-  ing  into  a  trot,  so  dazzled  by  the  pros-  pect  of  his  mother's  death,  in  such  a  hurry  to  get  home  and  look  at  her  in  the  light  of  this  new  knowledge,  that  he  didn't  notice  where  he  was  going,  and  collided  with  a  man  who  was  coming  up  the  street.  She  could  see  Leonard  apologizing,  and  the  man  saying  noth-  ing,  The  man  came  on,  walking  slowly,  and  pausing  to  read  the  names  of  the  boarding  houses,  the  cards  framed  in  the  bell  panels.  A  slow  reader-or  a  man  with  time  to  kill.  No.  31.  No.  30.  No.  29.  No.  28.  Outside  No.  27,  he  seemed  to  be  pausing  more  attentively.  Then  he  took  a  step  or  two  backward  and  stared  up  at  the  house,  his  glance  pausing  at  the  first-,  the  second-,  the  third-floor  windows,  as  he  had  paused  before  each  door.  Just  when  she  had  recognized  him  she  did  not  know.  All  she  knew  was  that  in  an  instant  his  glance  would  travel  a  stage  further  and  that  she  would  be  looking  down  into  the  face  of  the  red-haired  man. "