 b"ONE  day  in  late  July,  1945,  I  O  woke  at  six,  when  my  grand-  mother  brought  my  morning  cup  of  black  coffee  into  my  bedroom.  I  sat  on  the  edge  of  the  bed  and  gulped  the  bitter  coffee.  It  had  been  made  in  an  old  drip  pot  on  the  iron  stove,  where  a  kettle  was  always  simmering,  and  it  was  nearly  as  thick  as  Turkish.  The  shades  in  my  room  were  still  down,  and  the  morning  light  showed  in  a  thousand  pinpricks  through  the  worn  green  cloth.  I  crossed  the  room  and  opened  the  shades  and  heard  a  rooster  crow  in  the  henyard  across  the  road.  A  big  automo-  bile  slurred  past,  making  an  early  start  for  the  White  Mountains.  I  always  looked  out  to  see  what  kind  of  day  it  would  be.  Rain?  A  scorcher?  It  looked  fine  and  sunny  today.  I  walked  back  to-  ward  the  bed,  where  my  coffee  cup  sat  on  the  table,  between  my  typewriter  and  a  vase  of  flowers  that  my  grandmoth-  er  had  picked.  I  sat  on  the  bright  quilt  and  finished  the  coffee.  Usually  I  would  get  another  cup  of  coffee  after  I  had  dressed,  and  sit  at  my  brown  table  and  work  at  poems.  But  this  morning  was  the  start  of  a  day  we  had  planned  since  I  had  arrived  from  [REDACTED]  in  mid-  June  to  spend  the  summer,  as  I  al-  ways  did,  at  my  grandparents'  farm  in  New  Hampshire.  In  years  past,  before  I  was  born,  my  grandfather  had  made  an  annual  excursion  to  pick  blueberries.  I  had  heard  about  those  days  in  many  of  the  stories  my  grandfather  told  me.  I  was  sixteen  that  summer,  and  able  to  help  him  with  the  haying  and  the  daily  chores  more  than  in  previous  years.  As  we  worked  together,  I  sometimes  imagined  that  I  was  living  in  my  grand-  father's  old  stories,  just  as  I  was  in  fact  living  in  the  farmhouse  where  my  grandmother  had  been  born  and  where  a  gallery  of  ancient  relatives  stared  down  at  me  from  photographs  and  da-  guerreotypes  on  the  parlor  wall.  The  blueberries  my  grandfather  talked  about  were  the  low,  wild  kind,  and  they  grew  among  the  ledges  of  blue  rock  at  the  top  of  Ragged  Mountain.  They  were  a  three-mile  walkfrom  the  farmhouse,  and  the  walk  was  mostly  up.  When  my  grandfather  was  younger,  he  and  a  hired  man  would  pick  for  one  long  day,  and  my  grandmother  and  her  daughters,  one  of  whom  was  my  mother,  would  wash,  sort,  and  can  them  for  two  days.  A  shelf  of  cold-packed  quarts  of  blueberries  would  wait  in  the  cellar  for  the  piecrusts  of  winter.  It  was  one  of  the  many  ways  a  farmer  compensated  for  his  lackof  money-like  the  eggs  from  the  layingseason  stored  in  water-  glass,  and  like  the  salted  meat  from  the  slaughtering.  My  grandfather  had  talked  about  the  blueberry-picking  so  often  that  it  seemed  as  much  a  part  of  his  past  as  the  two-  hour  sermons  he  had  endured  as  a  boy,  and  the  lyceums  at  which  he  had  re-  cited  set  pieces  and  comic  poems.  But  a  few  weeks  earlier  this  past  had  strangely  seemed  present  to  us.  A  neighbor  named  Paul  Whittier  had  been  chasing  a  bear  that  had  tramped  down  his  peas,  and  had  followed  it  all  the  way  to  the  top  of  Ragged.  (It  was  not  only  a  lust  for  revenge  that  drove  him;  the  bounty  on  bears  was  five  dollars.)  He  had  lost  his  bear  among  the  rocks  on  the  other  side  of  the  mountain,  but  among  the  blue  ledges  of  the  top  he  had  found  the  blueberries  thicker  than  ever.  They  were  green  then,  he  said,  or  he  would  have  been  up  there  eating  them  still.  No  one,  as  far  as  my  grandfather  knew,  had  picked  there  for  twenty  years.  The  berries  were  higher  up  than  the  forests  that  had  been  cut  of  their  softwood  years  before,  or  the  lumber-  jacks  would  have  stripped  them.  No  one  else  in  the  neighborhood  cared  to  make  the  climb.  The  thought  of  all  those  blue-  berry  pies  growing,  maturing,  and  drop-  ping  every  year,  unappreciated  except  by  the  birds,  troubled  my  grandfather's  sense  of  propriety.  We  decided  we  would  go  blueberry-picking.  My  grandmother  fretted  a  little.  It  was  a  long  trip;  the  rocks  were  hard  to  climb;  the  blueberries  would  be  too  heavy  for  us  to  carry;  my  grandfather  was  seventy-two  years  old.  But  the  thought  of  her  rows  of  canned  blueber-  ries,  cold-packed  in  their  quart  jars,  overcame  her  opposition.  She  made  us  promise  to  stop  and  rest  when  we  were  tired,  and  my  grandfather  fixed  the  time  when  he  thought  the  blueberries  would  be  ripe.  This  morning,  I  took  my  second  cup  of  coffee  in  the  kitchen  and  ate  break-  fastin  the  old  chair  beside  the  window,  under  the  caged  canary  named  Chris-     23  topher.  I  was  impatient  to  be  started.  I  heard  a  strange  noise  outside-a  high-  pitched  hoot  from  behind  the  sheep  barn,  where  railroad  tracks  of  the  [REDACTED]  &amp;  [REDACTED]  cut  through  the  soft  dirt.  It  was  the  time  for  the  morning  Peanut,  the  train-actually  named,  as  I  recall,  the  Penult-that  went  up  to  White  River  Junction  in  the  evening  and  came  back  in  the  morning.  But  the  whistle  of  the  Peanut  was  the  long,  throaty  lament  of  the  steam  engine.  I  stared  at  the  gap  in  the  ensilage  corn,  through  which  I  would  be  able  to  see  the  train  flash.  When  it  came,  it  looked  like  a  trolley  car,  short  and  self-pro-  pelled,  and  again  it  hooted  its  ridiculous  horn.  &quot;I  suppose  that's  one  of  those  funny  new  trains,&quot;  my  grandmother  said.  &quot;Somebody  said  they'd  seen  one  this  summer.&quot;  When  I  had  finished  my  eggs,  I  walked  up  to  the  tieup,  where  the  cows  stood,  morning  and  evening,  to  be  milked.  The  cows  were  moving  out  to  pasture  now,  and  behind  them  my  grandfather  was  clapping  his  hands  and  shouting.  In  the  spring,  they  would  gallop  out  like  young  horses,  but  by  this  time  of  year  they  acted  like  cows  again,  and  my  grandfather  was  in  a  hur-  ry  to  shut  the  gates  behind  them.  I  went  into  the  tieup  to  start  cleaning  it.  With  the  edge  of  a  hoe,  I  lifted  up  the  hinged  floorboard  over  the  manure  pit  and  pushed  the  cow  flops  onto  their  cousins  below.  My  grandfather  came  in.  &quot;How  did  you  like  the  new  whistle?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Not  so  much,&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;I  like  the  old  kind.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  there's  a  reason  for  it,&quot;  he  said.  He  picked  up  the  other  hoe  and  scraped  along  with  me.  &quot;You  should  be  resting  for  what's  ahead  of  you,&quot;  he  said.  He  sang  one  of  his  tuneless  songs  and  seemed  as  excited  as  I  was.  When  we  walked  into  the  kitchen,  my  grandmother  was  packing  pie  and  sandwiches  into  an  enormous  paper  bag.  &quot;You'll  need  your  strength,  Wesley,&quot;  she  said  to  my  grandfather.  &quot;Now,  you  eat  a  good  breakfast.&quot;  He  ate  his  oatmeal  and  bread  and  coffee,  sitting  at  one  of  the  set  tubs,  which  was  covered  with  oilcloth.  My  grandmother  finished  packing  the  paper  bag  and  disappeared  into  the  shed.  A  moment  later,  I  heard  her  pumping  at  the  deep  well  in  the  back,  and  I  fol-  lowed  her  out  to  relieve  her.  I  pumped,  and  we  filled  three  milk  bottles  with  cold  well  water,  and  she  put  cardboard  tops  on  the  bottles.  We  left  them  inside  the  shed  and  brought  the  paper  bag  out  with  us  when  my  grandfather  had  finished  " b"eating.  Two  huge  pails,  shaped  wider  at  the  bottom  than  at  the  top,  lay  wait-  ing  for  us.  We  put  the  food  in  one  and  the  water  in  the  other.  Then  my  grand-  father  found  a  wooden  yoke,  which  he  placed  over  the  back  of  his  neck  and  from  which  he  hung  the  two  great  pails.  It  was  the  apparatus  he  used  when  he  made  maple  sugar  in  the  winter,  pour-  ing  thesap  from  the  little  buckets  at  each  sugar  maple  into  the  big  pails.  I  carried  two  sap  buckets,  into  which  we  would  pick  the  berries,  and  we  started  off.  It  was  seven  o'clock.  The  air  was  cool  and  the  grass  was  soaking  wet  under  our  feet.  Low  light  from  the  east  came  through  the  trees,  which  were  full  and  dark  green.  My  grandmother  called  after  us  from  the  end  of  the  porch,  warning  us  to  be  careful.  We  turned  into  New  [REDACTED]  Road  and  started  to  climb.  &quot;It'll  be  harder  coming  back,&quot;  said  my  grandfather,  &quot;but  at  least  it  will  be  downhill.&quot;  He  paused,  the  pails  swinging  easily  from  the  ends  of  the  yoke.  Then  he  laughed.  &quot;The  only  man  I  ever  knew  who  could  walk  all  day  and  not  be  tired,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;was  your  Great-Grampa  Keneston.  He  must  have  touched  every  inch  of  this  mountain.  Days  when  he  couldn't  do  much  else,  he  would  walk  around  his  pasture  looking  at  the  fencing.  My,  he  was  sprightly!  You  heard  your  mother  tell  about  how,  the  day  before  he  died,  he  walked  clear  down  to  West  An-  dover  to  buy  some  [REDACTED]  Mints.  He  was  eighty-seven  then.  When  he  had  his  seventieth  birthday,  he  stood  up  on  the  horse's  back  and  galloped  up  the  hill  to  the  barn.  Bethuel  Peasley  told  how  when  he  was  seventy-five  or  so  he  set  off  on  a  walk  with  a  two-year-old  dog  following  him  and  he  came  back  four  hours  later  with  the  dog  slung  along  the  back  of  his  neck  like  a  lamb.  All  tired  out.&quot;  In  the  shade  of  the  gray  birches  and  of  the  maples  that  met  over  New  Can-  ada  Road,  it  was  almost  cold  that  morn-  ing,  but  I  was  already  sweating  because  of  the  climb.  I  took  off  the  sweater  that  my  grandmother  had  asked  me  to  wear  and  tied  it  around  my  waist.  &quot;That's  the  last  you'll  use  your  sweater  today,&quot;  my  grandfather  said.  After  a  mile  of  New  [REDACTED]  Road,   we  climbed  over  some  bars  into  a  pas-  ture.  I  thought  I  felt  ruts  underneath  the  old  leaves  where  we  were  walking.  &quot;Is  this  a  lumber  road?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  my  grandfather.  &quot;It's  Paul  Whittier's  pasture,  though  he  only  keeps  a  few  head  now.  He  took  the  lumber  off  about  ten  years  ago.&quot;  The  only  old  trees  were  twisted  ones  that  the  lumberers  had  scorned.  Young  fir  was  growing  thickly  everywhere  but  in  the  road,  which  the  spring  waters  had  eroded  into  cliffs  and  islands  of  rock.  I  stumbled  once  and  scraped  my  knee.  We  climbed  most  of  the  time,  but  the  road  avoided  the  steepest  parts.  Some-  times  we  passed  through  a  clearing,  full  of  squashed  bushes  and  flatter  than  the  rest  of  the  land,  which  the  cows  patron-  ized.  A  LITTLE  after  eight,  we  paused  in  one  of  the  clearings  and  sat  on  rocks  to  catch  our  breath.  My  grand-  father's  shirt  was  wet  through.  I  already  felt  as  tired  as  if  I  had  hayed  for  a  whole  afternoon.  We  said  nothing  for  a  while.  Then  I  said,  &quot;I'm  thirsty.&quot;  My  grandfather  shook  his  head.  " b"&quot;You'll  be  thirstier,&quot;  thirsty  work.  You'll  wait.&quot;  In  a  moment,  we  set  out  again.  The  road  failed  us  and  we  climbed  a  stone  wallout  of  Paul  Whittier's  pasture,  &quot;I  reckon  this  is  part  of  our  land  you've  never  seen,&quot;  said  my  grandfather.  &quot;'Took  the  timber  off  nearly  twenty  years  ago.&quot;  Pine  grew  tall  around  us.  &quot;It  won't  be  long  before  we  take  it  off  again.&quot;  We  walked  parallel  to  the  stone  wall  until  we  came  to  a  dry  creek  bed,  and  we  used  it  as  our  road  up  the  mountain.  It  was  very  rocky.  I  fitted  one  bucket  inside  the  other  and  used  my  free  hand  to  climb  with.  &quot;How  will  we  get  down  when  we're  carrying  blueberries?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;''There's  another  way,&quot;  said  my  grandfather.  We  stood  still  for  a  mo-  ment  in  order  to  talk.  &quot;Or  there  used  to  be.  It's  steeper  than  most  of  this,  but  it's  steadier.  Not  that  this  creek  used  to  be  so  dug  out.  I  suppose  you  can't  know  what  you  will  find.&quot;  We  both  wiped  our  faces  with  our  handkerchiefs.  I  looked  at  my  watch;  it  was  only  eight-thirty.  &quot;We'd  better  move  on,&quot;  my  grandfather  said.  After  fifteen  minutes  of  climb,  ing,  we  left  the  creek  and  came  to  more  level  land.  A  surprising  plain  of  heavy  grass  made  easy  walking  for  a  moment.  &quot;'Too  bad  we  can't  get  the  hayrack  up  here,&quot;  I  said.  My  grandfather  nodded  and  smiled.  He  was  look-  ing  ahead  at  the  fringe  of  trees  on  the  edge  of  the  clearing.  When  we  came  up  to  them,  he  motioned  to  me  to  go  first.  I  stepped  through  and  stopped  still.  The  land  in  front  of  me  sloped  slightly,  and  I  saw  that  it  rose  again  two  hundred  yards  ahead,  making  a  little  saucer  of  a  valley  high  upon  the  mountain.  In  the  bowl,  flat  down  and  rust  red,  lay  a  forest  of  dead  trees,  all  point-  ing  in  the  same  direction.  It  couldnot  have  been  larger  than  five  acres,  but  it  seemed  vast  as  I  looked  at  it,  like  a  crater  of  the  dead.  Desolation  made  it  look  immense.  'There  seemed  to  be  no  growth  under  the  dead  branches  of  the  huge  trees.  The  soil  had  fallen  away  from  the  exposed  roots,  and  the  roots  looked  like  bunches  of  dead  nerves.  We  were  so  high,  beyond  paths  and  people,  that  it  seemed  as  if  we  were  the  first  to  know.  I  felt  as  if  I  had  been  walking  on  the  he  said.  &quot;It's  do  better  to  shore  and  found  a  drowned  submarine  rolled  up  by  the  tide.  My  grandfather  was  looking  over  my  shoulder.  &quot;The  hurricane?&quot;  I  asked.  I  meant  the  storm  of  September,  1938.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  my  grandfather.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  kind  of  trees  they  were?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;This  was  the  stand  of  rock  maple,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  must  have  taken  them  a  hundred  and  fifty  years  to  grow  so  big.  They  would  have  been  worth  hauling  from  here,  being  rock  maple.&quot;  The  chopping  block  in  the  woodshed  was  rock  maple,  I  knew.  It  was  about  the  hardest  wood  that  grew  in  New  Eng-  land.  &quot;We  were  planning  to  sell  them  in  1940,  but  after  everything  blew  down,  nobody  would  come  up  here  for  them.  They  were  too  busy  with  the  trees  low  down.&quot;  I  had  nothing  to  say.  I  just  stared.  It  was  so  huge  and  so  wasted.  &quot;Dead  but  not  buried,&quot;  my  grand-  father  went  on.  &quot;I  haven't  seen  it  since  the  time  I  climbed  up  here  after  the  hur-  ricane.  Pine  a  few  rods  away  wasn't  touched.  The  roots  aren't  deep  enough  85  here,  for  there's  ledge  down  a  few  feet  under  the  soil.  That's  why  I  feared  and  climbed  up.  It  looked  different  then.  You  couldn't  see  the  trunks  for  all  the  leaves,  and  of  course  you  couldn't  walk  through  it.  I  could  see  that  everything  was  pointing  the  same  way.  A  lumber-  man  from  the  government  told  me  one  gust  probably  did  it.&quot;  A  moment  later,  my  grandfather  stepped  past  me  and  we  began  to  pick  our  way  through  the  dead  trees.  The  branches  made  a  continual  dry  hedge  that  snapped  at  our  touch  and  scratched  our  faces  and  arms.  My  watch  was  nearly  torn  from  my  wrist.  I  put  it  in  my  pocket.  We  climbed  over  and  under  the  great  trunks  and  weaved  back  and  forth  as  if  we  were  lost  in  a  maze.  Finally,  we  rose  at  the  other  side  of  the  lot  and  looked  back  again.  &quot;We  won't  be  com-  ing  through  here  on  the  way  back,&quot;  said  my  grandfather.  &quot;Lucky  thing.&quot;  He  took  one  last  look  at  the  trees  and  then  turned  up  the  hill.  We  were  beginning  to  climb  the  blue  ledges  that  made  the  top  of  Ragged.  It  was  only  four  hundred  yards  to  the  blue-  berries,  but  they  were  hard  going.  &quot;I  " b" can  see  the  bushes,&quot;  said  my  grand-  father.  My  feet  felt  lighter  and  I  climbed  more  rapidly.  Only  my  throat  remained  tight  and  dry,  and  I  looked  forward  to  water  as  much  as  to  sitting  down.  Soon  the  dome  of  Ragged  flat-  tened  out,  and  the  rocks,  which  had  seemed  to  lie  close  together,  turned  into  islands  in  a  sea  of  blueberries.  The  bushes  were  as  low  as  grass,  hardly  taller  than  the  flat  rock  they  surrounded.  The  blue  of  the  berries  seemed  more  promi-  nent  than  the  green  of  the  leaves,  so  that  the  earth  looked  blue  everywhere,  from  blue  stone  to  blue  fruit.  Only  the  texture  varied.  'The  berries  were  ripe  and  full.  Some  of  them  had  burst  and  oozed  a  blue  liquid.  Most  of  them  were  small  and  as  sweet  as  I  had  ever  tasted.  We  squatted  on  a  rock.  My  grand-  father  delved  into  his  pails.  &quot;Now's  when  the  work  starts,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;so  I  reckon  you'll  want  some  strength.&quot;  He  opened  the  paper  bag  and  handed  me  a  sandwich.  I  looked  at  my  watch  and  saw  it  was  nine  o'clock.  &quot;Have  yourself  some  water,&quot;  he  said.  The  milk  bottle  of  well  water  was  already  warm.  I  pried  the  top  off  and  tilted  my  head  back  and  swallowed  lux-  uriously.  When  I  took  it  away,  I  had  drunk  nearly  half  the  bottle.  My  grand-  father  looked  over.  &quot;Careful,&quot;he  said.  &quot;It's  a  hot  day  and  a  long  way  to  water.&quot;  I  nodded,  but  I  didn't  really  care.  I  took  another  sip  before  I  put  the  bottle  back.  Then  I  ate  my  egg  sandwich  while  the  sun  rose  higher  and  warmed  the  back  of  my  neck.  There  was  no  wind  this  morning,  or  we  would  have  been  open  to  it.  I  realized  that  we  had  left  trees  behind  at  the  level  of  the  dead  forest.  I  looked  down  at  it  now,  a  red-  brown  patch  among  the  green.  Else-  where,  as  far  as  I  could  see,  there  was  only  the  green  of  the  trees  and  theblue  silver  of  small  lakes.  Here  and  there  in  the  distance  I  saw  the  white  of  a  farm-  house.  Suddenly  something  occurred  to  me.  &quot;I  should  think  that  rock  maple  might  catch  on  fire,&quot;  I  said.  My  grandfather  nodded.  &quot;Lightning  might  do  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Of  course,  no-  body  walks  up  here  to  throw  a  cigarette  away.  I've  thought  of  it.  It  would  blaze  down  the  whole  mountain  if  it  started,  and  we're  on  the  mountain.&quot;  I  stood  up  and  walked  a  little  way  toward  the  other  side  of  Ragged.  I  felt  as  solitary  as  an  explorer.  Low  clouds  cut  off  the  topsof  other  peaks  a  mile  or  two  off,  and  in  between  I  saw  the  same  green  and  the  same  white  specks  of  the  farms.  I  heard  my  grandfather  call  &quot;Want  any  more  to  eat  now?&quot;  He  was  packing  up  the  lunch.  &quot;I  guessnot,&quot;  I  said,  and  walked  back  to  him.  He  put  the  bag  and  the  bottles  in  a  crack  in  the  rock  and  stood  up.  &quot;All  set?&quot;  he  said.  He  picked  up  one  of  the  sap  buckets.  The  two  big  pails  were  standing  on  a  flat  piece  of  rock.  &quot;These  berries  are  mighty  low,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  may  prefer  to  sit  on  the  rock  and  pick  them.  A  sore  back  is  asore  back.&quot;  We  took  our  buckets  and  set  out  in  different  directions.  I  had  never  picked  low-bush  berries  before,  and  there  were  tricks  I  didn't  know.  When  I  tried  to  scoop  off  a  whole  handful,  I  crushed  some  of  the  berries  and  pulled  a  leaf  or  a  bit  of  stem  along  with  them.  My  bucket  was  soon  full  of  foreign  matter,  which  would  make  for  a  lot  of  picking  over  back  at  the  farm.  Yet  when  I  tried  to  be  careful  I  went  so  slowly  that  it  would  have  taken  all  morning  to  pick  one  bucketful,  The  trouble  with  sitting  was  that  I  had  to  slide  myself  over  the  bumpy  rock,  and  I  began  to  feel  paralyzed  where  I  sat.  The  heaviest  stems  of  berries  were  al-  ways  slightly  out  of  reach.  I  tried  kneel-  ing,  but  my  knees  gave  out.  I  tried  stand-  ing,  and  it  felt  all  right  until  I  unbent,  when  I  thought  I  would  crack  apart.  Finally,  Isat  again,  as  the  least  evil.  My  grandfather  stood  and  bent.  Whenever  he  straightened  up,  he  gri-  maced.  &quot;Why  don't  you  sit  down?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;I'd  never  stand  up  again!&quot;  he  said.  He  pointed  to  the  calves  of  his  legs  with-  out  breaking  the  rhythm  of  his  fast  pick-  ing.  &quot;Cramps,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;From  climb-  ing  up  here.&quot;  I  picked  and  picked.  I  switched  from  the  right  hand  to  the  left  and  back  again,  and  picked  two-handed,  and  still  my  bucket  was  only  a  quarter  full.  I  realized  that  even  when  I  had  filled  it,  the  ber-  ries  would  barely  cover  the  bottom  of  one  of  the  big  pails.  I  thought  we  would  never  fill  even  one  of  them.  Then  I  heard  my  grandfather  grunt  as  he  straightened  up,  and  saw  him  empty  his  full  bucket  into  one  of  the  big  pails.  &quot;'There's  one,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Look  at  all  I've  done,&quot;  I  said,  lift-  ing  my  bucket  to  show  it  to  him.  &quot;You  don't  know  how  to  pick  them  yet.&quot;  He  walked  over  to  me  and  leaned  down.  He  tookhold  of  a  stem  heavy  with  blueberries  and  stripped  it  clean  between  his  index  and  middle  fingers     without  crushing  a  berry  or  tearing  off  a  leaf.  &quot;Do  you  see?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  have  to  be  gentle  and  let  your  hand  feel  them  coming.  You'll  learn  it.&quot;  IN  the  whole  morning  I  only  filled  my  bucket  twice,  while  his  bucket  emp-  tied  itself  five  times  into  our  storage  bins  on  the  flat  rock.  My  hands  felt  twisted  out  of  shape  and  nervous  with  their  con-  tinual  darting.  My  back  felt  welded  in  a  leaning  curve.  Worst  of  all,  my  throat  parched  with  thirst,  and  parched  more  and  more  as  the  sun  rose  in  the  sky  and  the  sweat  dried  on  my  body.  A  hundred  times  I  almost  complained,  or  almost  rose  to  have  a  drink  of  the  water  with-  out  saying  anything,  but  each  time  the  sight  of  my  grandfather,  picking  steadi-  ly  and  humming  to  himself,  and  seven-  ty-two  years  old,  shamed  me  into  si-  lence.  He  worked  with  utter  delight  in  the  growing  pile  of  berries.  He  talked  of  the  number  of  blueberry  pies  we  had  already  gathered,  and  all  I  could  think  of  was  the  dampness  of  them.  When  I  ate  a  handful  of  blueberries,  my  mouth  felt  better  for  a  moment  but  then  felt  un-  utterably  worse-so  thick  that  my  cheeks  clung  to  my  teeth  and  my  tongue  stuck  to  the  roof  of  my  mouth.  I  knew  that  we  would  break  for  lunch,  but  I  had  put  my  watch  in  my  pocket.  I  kept  squinting  up  at  the  sun  to  guess  the  time.  Finally,  when  I  didn't  even  know  I  was  going  to  say  it,  I  heard  my  dry  voice  squeaking,  &quot;I  think  I'll  have  a  drink.&quot;  My  grandfather  pulled  his  gold  watch  from  the  pocket  of  his  trousers.  &quot;My,  my,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  past  lunch-  time.  T'welve-fifteen.&quot;  He  put  his  watch  away  and  stretched  carefully.  &quot;I  guess  we'd  better  do  some  eating.&quot;  " b" I  rose  gratefully  and  walked  toward  our  cache  of  food  and  water.  I  lifted  the  bottle  I  had  started  before  and,  though  I  knew  I  was  foolish,  drained  it  dry.  A  minute  after  I  had  set  it  back  on  the  rock,  my  thirst  returned.  I  reached  for  a  second  quart,  which  stood  propped  in  the  crack  of  rock,  and  when  I  lifted  it  out  my  stiff  fingers  slipped  and  the  bot-  tle  fell  and  rolled  from  me,  and  the  water  poured  out  over  the  blue  rocks  and  drained  among  the  blueberry  plants.  &quot;Look!&quot;  I  said.  I  was  exhausted  and  angry  to  the  point  of  tears.  I  could  say  nothing  more.  My  grandfather  shook  his  head  and  smiled  at  me.  &quot;I  suspect  you'll  wish  you  had  that  quart  of  water,&quot;  he  said.  I  dipped  my  finger  in  a  small  puddle  in  the  rock  and  sucked  it.  The  third  quart  had  to  do  for  both  ofus  now,  and  my  grandfather  hadn't  drunk  anything  yet.  &quot;You  handle  the  other  quart,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We'll  be  careful  with  that  one,&quot;  my  grandfather  said.  As  I  ate,  I  felt  a  little  better.  The  custard  pie,  the  pickles,  and  the  butter  in  the  chicken  sandwiches  were  all  damp.  I  ateas  slowly  as  I  could,  pushing  away  the  moment  when  the  picking  would  begin  again.  When  we  had  fin-  ished  the  whole  bag,  my  grandfather  tucked  it  tidily-waxed  paper  and  hard-  boiled-egg  shells  inside-into  a  crevice  of  the  stone.  &quot;Now  let's  have  a  bit  of  that  water,&quot;  said  my  grandfather.  He  lifted  the  re-  maining  bottle  and  took  a  mouthful,  keeping  it  in  his  mouth  a  long  time  and  letting  it  go  down  in  slow  sips,  scrupu-  lously.  &quot;That's  good,&quot;  he  said,  and  handed  it  to  me.     I  tried  to  do  the  same  trick,  and  choked.  He  stood  up  and  stretched  again.  &quot;I  could  relish  a  few  minutes  on  the  sofa  just  now,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Don't  see  any  sofas  hereabouts.&quot;  He  walked  to  where  he  had  left  his  bucket  and  began  to  pick  again.  I  looked  at  my  watch.  It  was  nearly  one.  On  the  way  to  my  bucket,  I  looked  in  the  big  pails.  One  was  nearly  full,  and  the  other  was  barely  covered  with  ber-  ries  on  the  bottom.  When  I  sat  down  on  the  hard  rock  again,  my  old  bruises  of  the  morning  felt  worse  than  before.  During  the  afternoon,  I  filled  my  bucket  more  rapidly,  and  every  time  I  emptied  it  I  took  a  sip  of  water.  It  was  my  reward  for  being  quick.  I  saw  my  grandfather  wet  his  lips  once  and  stand  staring  across  the  valley  below  us  at  the  hills  on  the  other  side.  I  stood  up  and  watched  with  him,  and  for  a  moment  forgot  blueberries  and  sore  backs,  fa-  tigue  and  thirst.  But  in  a  moment  my  throat  contracted  with  its  drought  again,  and  I  raced  to  fill  up  another  bucket.  My  grandfather  seemed  to  pick  more  slowly  than  he  had  picked  in  the  morn-  ing,  and  when  he  stood  up  now  to  carry  the  bucket  to  the  big  pail,  he  usually  paused  for  a  minute  before  walking.  In  the  middle  of  the  afternoon,  I  calculated  that  two  more  bucketfuls  would  fill  the  last  big  pail,  and  I  raced  to  fill  my  bucket  and  be  done.  My  grandfather  and  I  met  at  the  big  pails  at  the  same  time  and  poured  our  blueberries  to  the  very  top.  I  took  another  sip  of  water,  unable  to  speak  for  the  dryness  of  my  throat.  About  an  inch  was  left  in  the  bottom  of  the  bottle.  I  was  already  thinking  of  the  well  water  at  home,  after  our  walk  27  down  the  mountain.  But  then  I  saw  my  grandfather  walk  back  to  the  berries.  &quot;What  are  you  do-  ing?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  filled  the  pails.&quot;  &quot;&quot;Not  these,&quot;  he  said,  waving  his  sap  bucket.  &quot;Are  you  tired?&quot;  He  set  the  bucket  down  and  walked  back  to  where  I  was  standing.  &quot;I  didn't  think  ofthat.&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;We  could  go  home,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  have  plenty  of  berries.&quot;  &quot;No,  no,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't  want  to.&quot;  I  would  have  been  ecstatic  if  he  had  over-  ruled  me,  but  he  didn't.  He  said,  &quot;You  really  sure?,&quot;  and  when  I  nodded,  he  walked  back  to  his  berries.  When  he  turned  away,  I  was  filled  with  anger  and  frustration,  and  I  lifted  the  milk  bot-  tle  and  drained  the  last  of  the  water.  We  filled  our  buckets.  My  grand-  father  was  finished  a  moment  before  me,  and  he  gathered  a  few  handfuls  to  top  off  mine.  We  carried  the  sap  buckets  to  the  high  rock  where  the  two  big  pails  stood.  We  looked  all  around  us  once  more.  It  was  only  three-thirty,  but  a  wind  was  rising  and  I  began  to  feel  a  little  cool.  My  grandfather  put  the  milk  bottles  in  the  pockets  of  his  overalls.  He  fastened  the  ends  of  the  wooden  yoke  to  the  two  big  pails  and  lifted  them.  His  face  looked  red,  and  veins  stood  out  on  his  temples.  &quot;It  must  be  very  heavy,&quot;  I  said.  I  lifted  the  sap  buckets  and  they  were  heavy  enough  to  suit  me.  &quot;'They're  tolerably  heavy,&quot;  he  said,  and  started  along  the  stones.  &quot;Let  me  carry  them,&quot;  I  said  rather  feebly.  I  didn't  even  hear  his  answer,  and  he  kept  walking  straight  on.  As  I  walked,  my  thirst  seemed  to  grow  and  grow,  until  I  found  it  utterly  intolerable.  We  were  going  down  a  steep  grassy  slope.  If  there  had  been  a  cliff  handy,  I  would  have  been  tempted  to  jump  from  it.  I  felt  as  if  my  throat  were  being  stung  by  red  ants.  My  lips  felt  as  if  they  were  cracking  open,  and  my  tongue  felt  swollen  and  as  dry  as  old  newspaper.  &quot;Is  there  any  water  on  the  way?&quot;  I  asked  when  I  came  abreast  of  my  grandfather.  We  had  been  walking  for  ten  min-  utes.  When  my  grandfather  turned  to  me,  his  face  was  dead  white.  I  was  shocked.  He  knelt  until  the  pails  touched  " b"the  ground,  and  then  shrugged  from  under  the  yoke.  He  sat  on  the  ground,  and  I  thought  he  was  going  to  be  sick.  &quot;Might  be,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Are  you  all  right?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Don't  worry.&quot;  His  face  gradually  relaxed  and  color  returned  to  his  cheeks.  &quot;It's  my  turn  to  carry  the  yoke,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;My  hands  hurt  from  carrying  the  wire  handles  of  these  buckets,  and,  any-  way,  I  want  to  learn  how  to  carry  the  yoke.&quot;  He  looked  at  me.  &quot;It's  a  longer  walk  if  we  go  by  water.  Are  you  that  thirsty?&quot;  &quot;I  am  thirsty,  but  I  want  to  carry.&quot;  &quot;All  right,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;you  young  bull.&quot;  I  didn't  feel  much  like  a  bull.  &quot;I  guess  I  shouldn't  be  surprised.  See  how  you  like  it.&quot;  For  a  while,  the  novelty  of  the  yoke  took  my  mind  off  my  thirst.  When  I  crouched  under  it  and  stood  up,  I  nearly  lost  my  balance.  I  swayed,  with  the  pails  dangling  clumsily  at  my  sides.  Then  I  hunched  forward  and  they  settled.  My  grandfather  picked  up  the  sap  buck-  ets  and  looked  at  me.  &quot;All  right?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  guess  so,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Go  slowly.&quot;  We  doubled  back  a  few  yards  and  then  started  to  walk  north  on  the  same  level,  moving  at  first  in  a  direction  away  from  home.  At  first,  I  had  to  walk  very  cautiously,  because  the  rhythm  of  the  swinging  pails  threatened  my  balance,  but  soon  I  learned  to  use  the  swing  of  the  weight  to  help  me  keep  moving,  and  I  shrugged  until  the  yoke  felt  comfort-  able  on  the  back  of  my  neck.  When  I  felt  secure  in  the  walking,  the  thirst  came  back  upon  me.  After  a  few  minutes,  my  grandfather  felt  able  to  talk  again.  I  realized  that  to-  day  had  been  the  most  silent  day  we  had  ever  spent  together,  and  I  decided  that  he  must  have  been  more  tired  all  along  than  I  had  suspected.  &quot;I  had  that  pain  in  my  side  which  comes  when  I  run  sometimes,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'd  rather  you  didn't  say  much  about  it  back  home.&quot;  I  said  I  wouldn't.  &quot;I'm  glad  to  show  you  the  pool  where  we'll  find  the  water,  ifit's  still  there,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It  was  there  six  years  ago.  No,  eight  years.It  was  there  about  eighty  years  ago,  for  that  matter.  But  on  the  way  I'm  going  to  show  you  some-  thing  else.  I  don't  know  if  I  ever  told  you  about  it.&quot;  &quot;What  is  it?&quot;  &quot;You  wait,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Seeing  will  be  good  enough  for  you.&quot;  Then  he  snorted  and  remembered  an  anecdote  about  a  man  from  [REDACTED]  who  was  curious  about  how  Lucas  Blount  had  lost  his  leg,  and  how  Lucas  Blount  left  him  more  curious  than  ever.  He  seemed  himself  again.  E  had  passed  the  forest  of  dead  rock  maples,  going  slightly  below  it,  and  then  we  had  followed  a  steep  path  downhill  for  several  hundred  vards.  Now  we  came  onto  apart  of  Ragged  that  was  entirely  new  to  me.  It  seemed  to  be  a  high  plain,  quite  level  and  thick  with  fir  trees.  Then  we  descended  a  few  feet  into  what  looked  like  a  narrow,  flat  road.  I  saw  that  banks  rose  on  either  side  of  it,  perhaps  twelve  feet  apart.  It  was  too  level  for  one  of  the  makeshift  lumber  roads.  Branches  leaned  together  over  it,  but  only  goldenrod  and  small  bushes  were  growing  in  its  narrow  path.  &quot;What's  this?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Look,&quot;  said  my  grandfather  and  pointed  to  the  ground.  First,  I  was  aware  that  the  path  seemed  made  of  ridges  going  from  side  to  side,  like  a  corduroy  road,  except  that  the  ridges  were  a  foot  apart.  Then  I  saw  what  looked  like  long  streaks  of  orange,  run-  ning  parallel  along  the  outer  ends  of  the  ridges.  &quot;It's  a  railroad!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;It  used  to  be,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  remember  when  they  closed  it  down.  It's  narrowgauge,  see?  One  of  your  Foster  cousins  was  a  brakeman  here.  It  was  just  a  little  branch  line,  built  for  hauling  timber  to  the  freight  depots.  They  took  the  mail,  and  some  passengers,  too,  when  there  were  any,  when  there  were  more  people  here.&quot;  We  walked  on  the  rotted  ties.  Except  for  the  fact  that  we  had  to  duck  over-  hanging  branches,  it  was  the  easiest  walking  of  the  day.  Here  and  there,  one  of  the  banks  had  caved  in  and  dirt  had  fallen  onto  the  old  track,  but  most  of  it  seemed  nearly  intact.  It  was  like  Pompeii,  and  the  close  foliage  of  the  heavy  trees  around  us  closed  us  in,  as  if  we  were  sealed  off  in  an  alley  sep-  arate  from  the  world  of  strange  modern  trains.  &quot;Where  did  it  go?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;It  stopped  just  back  there,  at  no  place.  They  called  it  Ragged  Station.  Nothing's  there  now,  but  I'll  show  you  where  it  was  sometime.  [REDACTED]  Woodward  used  the  wood  from  theold  station  when  he  built  his  lean-to.  Up  here  is  where  your  Great-Grampa  Ken-  eston  came  from,  you  know.&quot;  I  had  the  pails  working  well  now  and  took  giant  steps,  two  ties  at  a  time.  We  walked  in  silence  for  a  way.  I  was  watching  the  ties  as  I  walked,  and  sel-  dom  looked  up.  To  slip  and  fall  would  have  meant  blueberry-picking  all  over  again,  and  the  very  thought  of  it  made  the  fire  in  my  throat  hotter.  Then  I  heard  my  grandfather  say  &quot;Hold  on  there,  boy.  Look  ahead.&quot;  He  stood  out  of  my  way.  Ahead  was  " b"something  dark  and  covered  with  vines.  It  obstructed  the  track  bed  we  walked  on.  I  set  down  the  blue-  berries  and  the  yoke  and  walked  past  my  grand-  father.  It  was  a  coal  car.  Under  its  wooden  hulk,  red  wheels  fitted  the  red  tracks.  I  could  see  fungi  growing  on  the  rotten  sides,  where  the  vines  were  thinnest.  Then  I  looked  beyond  the  coal  car  to  the  red  pitted  hulk  of  a  locomotive.  As  I  started  to  edge  my  way  toward  it,  I  looked  back  and  saw  my  grandfather  follow,  grinning  in  his  de-  light  at  my  excitement.  Branches  leaned  into  the  cab,  where  the  throttle,  corroded  with  rust,  stood  out  from  the  rusted  instru-  ments.  A  coal  shovel  lay  in  the  bottom  of  the  cab,  and  though  leaves  had  drifted  everywhere,  I  could  see  that  there  was  still  a  heap  of  coal  in  the  coal  car.  I  walkedaround  the  engine.  It  was  intact,  down  to  the  chain  that  led  to  the  bell  dangling  in  front.  The  smokestack  was  tall,  and  the  unbroken  glass  of  the  headlight  covered  an  oil  lamp.  The  apparatus  of  wheels  and  pistons  was  fixed  in  a  red  trance,  yet  it  looked  as  if  it  had  just  moved  to  a  stop.  Nothing  had  come  loose  or  fallen.  I  had  a  momentary  vi-  sion  that  my  grandfather  and  I  would  clean  the  boil-  er,  carry  water,  light  a  fire,  heap  on  coal,  blow  the  whis-  tle,  and  gradually  pull  the  throttle  toward  us;I  saw  the  old  pistons  groan  and  start  to  move,  flecks  of  rust  fall  like  red  snow  from  the  whole  machine,  and  the  wheels  turn  on  the  red  tracks  as  we  plunged  ahead  on  the  dead  railway,  going  no-  where  on  an  errand  among  the  farms  of  the  past.  &quot;Why  did  they  leave  it  here?&quot;  I  said.  Nobody  ever  said.  I  suppose  because  of  the  gauge.  It  would  be  hard  work  moving  it  anywhere  anybody  could  use  it,  even  for  scrap.&quot;  He  was  grinning  at  me.  &quot;Now  I  bet  you  feellike  an  explor-  er,&quot;  he  said.  I  didn't  want  to  tell  him  what  I  had  been  thinking.  I  came  back  to  the  cab  with  the  idea  of  getting  up  into  it,  but    when  I  set  my  foot  on  the  rung  out-  side,  it  broke  off.  &quot;I  wonder  how  long  it  will  stay  here,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Shouldn't  wonder  if  it  kept  up  a  hundred  years,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;It's  been  here  for  fifty  now.&quot;  We  walked  back  along  the  coal  car.  I  knocked  off  some  of  the  fungi  and  saw  the  black  paint  blistered  underneath.  My  grandfather  walked  ahead  of  me  and  lifted  the  yoke  and  straightened  his  shoulders  under  it.  &quot;You  ready?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You've  got  more  to  see  before  you're  home  again.&quot;  &quot;You  let  me  do  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I'll  carry  it  to  the  water,&quot;  he  said.  You  fetch  the  buckets.&quot;  He  started  off.  I  walked  af  ter  him,  edgin  g  past  the  l  oco-  m  otive  ,  and  my  neck  began  to  stra  ighte  n  itsel  f  from  the  posture  it  had  learned  u  nder  the  yoke.  But  as  soon  as  we  were  well  past  the  engine,  my  thirst  returned.  We  continued  on  the  track  for  only  two  hundred  yards.  Then  my  grand-  father  turned  and  squatted  so  that  the  big  pails  rested  on  the  ground  and  re-  li  eved  him  of  their  weight.  &quot;  Here'  s  where  we  go  off,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;First,  you  walk  up  ahead  fifty  yards  and  take  a  look.  Leave  your  buckets.  Be  careful  when  you  get  up  there.&quot;  My  thirst  had  returned  so  strongly  that  any  delay  was  agony,  but  I  did  " b"what  he  said.  The  foliage  leaned  over  the  track  thickly,  and  I  couldn't  see  far  ahead.  Then  suddenly  the  foliage  thinned  and  I  saw  the  track  go  on  ahead  of  me  in  midair.  Below  was  a  ravine,  cut  by  a  tiny  stream  I  could  see  at  the  bot-  tom.  It  was  crossed  by  a  rotting  trestle,  which  had  mostly  fallen  away  but  across  which  the  red  rails  still  made  a  tottery  passage.  I  took  one  long  look.  This  was  where  my  grandfather  and  I  would  have  driven  the  train.  Then  I  turned  and  trotted  back  to  my  grandfather.  When  he  saw  me  coming,  he  rose  up  under  the  yoke  again.  I  saw  the  veins  swell  out  at  his  temples.  I  picked  up  my  buckets.  &quot;Is  it  standing?&quot;  he  said.  I  told  him  it  was.  &quot;When  they  built  it,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;they  said  it  would  last.  Wash  helped  to  keep  it  up,  when  he  was  a  young  man.&quot;  We  turned  from  the  track  into  the  forest  and  immediately  started  to  go  downhill.  The  growth  was  thick,  and  my  grandfather  moved  slowly  with  the  yoke.  &quot;Are  you  all  right,  carrying  that?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;We're  pretty  close,&quot;  he  said.  Soon  we  came  into  a  pine  forest.  The  trees  were  tall  and  as  straightas  the  masts  of  ships.  It  was  like  walking  un-  derwater,  the  way  the  light  came  through  the  needles  way  above  us.  Only    a  few  low  branches  bothered  our  walk-  ing,  and  they  snapped  off  when  we  brushed  at  them.  The  needles  felt  as  soft  as  air  underneath  my  hot  feet.I  would  have  enjoyed  it  if  the  thirst  had  not  throbbed  in  my  mouth  and  throat.  I  wanted  to  talk  just  to  forget  the  pain.  &quot;Is  this  virgin  pine?&quot;  I  asked.  The  mo-  ment  I  asked  it,  I  knew  it  was  a  stupid  question.  My  grandfather  laughed.  He  started  to  say  something,  but  he  was  out  of  breath.  &quot;I'll  tell  you  later,&quot;  he  said  in  gasps.  N  a  few  minutes,  we  left  the  pine  and  entered  a  clearing  where  I  could  see  only  a  few  ancient  maples  and  some  bushes.  He  set  the  pails  on  the  ground  and  ducked  out  of  the  yoke.  I  could  see  by  his  face  that  he  had  the  pain  again.  I  set  my  buckets  beside  the  pails.  &quot;It's  my  turn  now,&quot;  I  said.  He  gestured  down  a  slope  at  one  side  of  the  clearing.  &quot;Water  down  there,&quot;  he  said.  I  jogged  down  the  slope  and  found  a  pool  at  the  bottom.  I  dropped  to  my  knees  and  cupped  the  water  in  my  hands  and  splashed  it  into  my  mouth.  The  first  water  seemed  painful,  because  there  was  so  little  of  it.  I  brought  more  and  more  up  to  my  mouth  and  covered  my  shirt  with  the  drips  from  my  fingers.  Finally  I  sat  back,  panting,  to  wait  for  a  second  wind.  Then  my  grandfather  came  walking  down  the  slope  to  where  I  was  and  took  a  quart  bottle  from  his  pocket  and  filled  it  and  drank  from  it.  I  borrowed  it  for  my  second  round  of  drinking,  and  in  a  few  minutes  stood  up,  my  stomach  cramped  full  of  water.  My  grandfather  filled  the  bottle  again  and  put  the  cardboard  stopper  on  it.  &quot;'For  the  trip  home,&quot;  he  said.  He  looked  better  now.  I  looked  at  the  pool  for  the  first  time.  It  was  small  and  perfectly  round.  It  looked  utterly  still,  yet  the  water  was  clear  and  cool,  with  no  scum  on  top  and  only  a  few  lily  pads  to  vary  the  surface.  My  grandfather  saw  me  looking  at  it.  &quot;God's  Pool,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Uncle  Lu-  ther  used  to  walk  here  from  Sabine,  summers  when  he  took  a  vacation  from  [REDACTED],  back  when  he  was  young  enough,  back  before  he  retired.  I  be-  lieve  he  used  to  read  books  here,  or  write  sermons  maybe.  I  was  afraid  it  might  not  be  here  any  more.  You  never  can  be  sure.  A  stream  can  shift  under-  ground.  It  comes  from  that  stream  which  you  saw  under  the  trestle,  and  it  goes  out  beneath  that  tree.  I  suppose  it's  one  of  the  streams  which  fills  up  our  lake  down  below.&quot;  &quot;It's  good  water,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  remem-  ber  Uncle  Luther  telling  me  about  God's  Pool.&quot;  &quot;In  the  old  days,  before  they  had  a  well,  lots  of  your  ancestors  drew  all  their  water  here.  Come  back  up  and  I'll  show  you  something.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  feel?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Better,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Come  along.&quot;  I  followed  him  back  to  the  clearing  with  the  ma-  ples.  He  pointed  with  his  foot  to  a  flat  stone.  &quot;Many  people  of  your  blood  stepped  on  that  stone,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;'That's  the  doorstep,  and  there's  the  cellar  hole.&quot;  I  looked  behind  the  stone  and  saw  the  depression  in  the  ground-a  small  cel-  lar  hole  walled  with  dry  stone,  where  the  potatoes  and  apples  and  carrots  and  turnips  and  cabbages  and  parsnips  and  salted  meat  and  fish  had  been  stored  for  decades  of  winters.  &quot;Is  this-?&quot;  I  began.  &quot;The  Kenestons',&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Uncle  Luther  grew  " b"up  here,  and  your  Great-Grampa  Benjamin,  and  the  others  before  him.  The  well  they  dug  is  over  that  way,  so  mind  your  feet  when  you  look  around.  They  tapped  the  stream  that  flowed  from  the  pool  when  they  got  tired  of  hauling  it  up  that  slope  in  buckets.&quot;  I  wandered  in  the  old  dooryard.  A  maple  above  me  stretched  out  a  great  branch  that  must  have  suspended  a  swing  for  the  children.  I  stubbed  my  toe  on  an  old  piece  of  metal  that  stuck  up  through  the  ground.  It  looked  like  the  wheel  of  a  cultivator.  My  grandfather  sat  on  the  doorstep.  &quot;I'm  sorry  to  stop,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  know  you'd  like  some  coffee  and  pie.  I  didn't  reckon  I'd  get  so  tired.&quot;  He  paused  a  moment,  looking  at  his  hands.  &quot;You  know  when  you  asked  if  it  was  virgin  pine?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Your  great-grand-  father  cut  the  virgin  timber  there,  in  the  fifties,  before  the  war.  He  stumped  it  with  oxen  and  planted  it  with  potatoes  and  hired  a  crew  to  dig  them  in  the  fall,  and  he  hauled  them  to  theold  rail-  road  and  sold  them  to  a  man  who  took  them  clear  down  to  [REDACTED],  to  sell  them  in  the  big  vegetable  market  down  there.  But  when  the  war  came  he  couldn't  hire  a  crew,  and  the  fields  grew  up  with  bush,  and  after  the  war  he  just  couldn't  get  started  again.  He  lived  so  long  he  sold  the  pine  twice  from  the  landhe  cleared  and  stumped  himself.  I  reckon  to  sell  it  the  third  time,  come  next  spring.&quot;  I  wandered  to  the  other  side  of  the  clearing,  into  a  bushy  meadow  that  slanted  steeply  downward.  Under  my  feet  I  felt  the  earth  wave  like  the  sea,  and  I  suddenly  realized  that  I  was  walk-  ing  on  land  that  retained  the  ridges  my  great-grandfather  had  plowed  into  it.  I  came  back  to  my  grandfather.  He  was  examining  his  hands  again  and  did  not  hear  me  coming.  I  saw  how  old  his  hands  looked.  Then  he  looked  over  at  the  yoke.  &quot;Do  you  really  feel  like  carry-  ing  that?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Sure  I  do,&quot;  I  said.  I  took  a  swallow  of  water  and  then  lifted  the  yoke  again  and  settled  it  where  I  liked  it  on  my  neck.  My  grandfather  lifted  the  sap  buckets  and  ledthe  way.  We  descended  the  bushy  meadow  into  a  strip  of  forest  and  then  climbed  an  old  stone  wall  to  a  road.  My  grandfather  laughed.  know  where  we  are?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;New  [REDACTED]?&quot;  I  said  hopefully.  &quot;Almost,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Twenty  rods  down  we  come  to  New  [REDACTED].  This  &quot;'You  is  what  they  called  New  Road,  and  the  town  keeps  it  up,  though  I  don't  know  as  anybody's  living  on  it  now.&quot;  We  turned  into  New  [REDACTED]  and  walked  downhill  all  the  way  home.  It  was  four  miles,  and  my  back  was  sore,  but  my  strength  revived  when  I  im-  agined  coffee  and  pie  waiting  on  the  set  tubs  in  the  kitchen.  We  walked  quietly  past  [REDACTED]  Woodward's  camp,  for  fear  he  could  discover  us  and  want  to  chat  for  an  hour  or  more.  At  last  we  turned  onto  the  macadam  of  the  main  road,  and  in  a  moment  I  saw  the  white  smoke  of  our  chimney.  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said  with  sudden  gaiety,  &quot;we've  brought  the  berries.&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  said  my  grandfather,  &quot;and  I  don't  know  when  we'll  make  the  trip  again.  I'm  glad  I  could  show  you  some  things  to  remember.&quot;"