 b'"THIS  is  the  worst  moment  of  the  day,&quot;  said  Daniele.  The  table-with  the  emptied  wine  flasks,  the  grapes  and  figs  left  in  large  bowls,  the  clusters  of  stained  napkins-was  like  a  beach  from  which  the  tide  had  ebbed.  Conversation  had  dwindled  until  slow  afternoon  sounds  could  be  heard  through  shutters  striped  with  heat.  The  long  room  had  windows  at  each  end,  and  on  one  side  opened  through  double  doors  into  the  drawing  room.  The  opposite  wall,  slate  blue,  was  bare  except  for  two  paintings  hung  together  like  il-  luminations  on  a  blank  page.  They  were  landscapes  painted  by  [REDACTED]  some  years  ago,  before  she  and  her  brother  turned  the  villa  into  a  persione  and  her  time  ceased  to  be  her  own.  She  sat  at  the  head  of  the  table,  straight  and  slender  in  a  faded  green  dress,  red-gold  hair  falling  on  her  shoulders.  Her  hands  were  loosely  clasped  in  her  lap,  and  in  her  face  poetry  and  reason  met  without  the  customary  signs  of  struggle.  She  turned  toward  her  brother\'s  remark  with  a  faint  smile.  As  though  at  a  signal,  the  diners  drew  themselves  together  to  surmount  this  worst  of  moments.  Chairs  scraped,  a  glass  was  knocked  over;  some  incon-  clusive  suggestion  was  made  for  a  drive  down  to  Florence  in  the  evening.  It  was  latein  the  season,  and  the  four  guests-an  elderly  English  couple  and  a  young  one-stood  around  the  table  as  singly  as  the  surviving  fruits  lay  in  the  china  dishes.  Old  Mr.  Fenwick,  who  had  been  at  the  villa  just  a  week,  pushed  his  chair  back  into  place  and  crossed  to  the  windows.  Un-  latching  one  of  the  shutters,  he  peered  into  the  garden,  and  only  his  wife\'s  going  over  to  join  him  suppressed  his  daily  utterance  concerning  a  brisk  walk.  There  was  something  of  fearful  symmetry  about  the  Fenwicks,  he  slim  and  inflexible,  she  plump  and  stately.  It  was  their  first  journey  to  4974616c79,  and  they  had  been  gratified  to  find  so  many  forebodings  justified.  Through  the  slit  that  now  parted  the  shutters,  the  old  man  stared  despondent-  ly  at  the  day.  The  scene,  it  was  true,  was  of  dimensions  comparable  to  those  of  his  own  land-in  fact,  he  had  made  the  comparison  all  too  frequently,  as  though  Tuscany  were  remarkable  only  for  this  similarity-but  then  there  was  that  sky.  He  had  never  experienced  such  a  sky.  In  England,  where  heaven  is  a  low-hung,  personal  affair,  thoroughly     identified  with  the  King  James  Version,  asky  such  as  this  would  not  have  been  tolerated  for  a  moment.  It  was  a  high,  pagan  explosion  of  a  sky,  promising  indulgence  for  all  kinds  of  offenses  to  which  he  had  not  the  slightest  inclina-  tion.  He  felt,  beneath  it,  exposed  and  ridiculed.  And  the  light,  foo-a  light  that  not  only  illuminated  but  was  an  element  in  itself,  as  distinct  as  rain  ...  He  would  go  and  read  in  his  room,  after  all,  for  he  realized  that  the  brisk  walk,  if  taken,  would  be  somehow  impeded  by  that  dazzling  light.  The  younger  couple,  the  Stapletons,  lingered  at  the  table,  folding  their  nap-  kins.  The  Stapletons  had  spent  other  summers  at  the  villa,  but  this  year,  for  the  first  time,  they  had  brought  with  them  some  unconfided  anxiety  of  their  [REDACTED]  life.  Francis,  a  fair  man  with  a  sensitive  and  orderly  manner,  con-  trived  to  conceal  his  present  unhappi-  ness-or  at  least  to  give  it  a  reasonable,  disciplined  air  that  made  it  socially  pre-  sentable.  But  his  wife,  Harriet,  carried  her  part  of  their  suffering  publicly,  and  in  return  received,  unfairly,  a  greater  deference.  [REDACTED]  had  begun  to  stack  the  dishes  for  the  maids,  who  had  their  lunch  at  this  hour.  &quot;Vaz  riposaerti,  cara,&quot;  she  told  Harriet,  drawing  the  napkin  out  of  her  hand.  After  a  moment,  Harriet  did  go-but  not,  immediately,  to  rest.  She  disap-  peared  into  the  drawing  room,  and  they  heard  the  opening  creak  of  the  side  door  and  the  thud  of  its  closing.  Francis  was  help-  ing  [REDACTED]  to  clear  the  table,  walking  around  it  to  bring  her  the  littered  fruit  plates.  It  was  a  relief  to  him  to  be  here,  in  this  cool  room,  doing  auto-  matic  tasks,  but  he  knew  that  in  a  moment  he  must  go  and  look  for  his  wife.  He  took  a  tray  from  the  sideboard  and  arranged  on  it  the  glasses  gathered  together  by  [REDACTED].  [REDACTED],  who  seemed  to  know  everything-and  he  found  it  rather  shocking  that  with  her  secluded  life  she  should  know  so  much-stood  silent,  pushing  the  grape  seeds  onto  one  large  dish  with  a  knife  and  making  a  pile  of  the  stained  plates  beside  her,  but  he  felt  soothed  and  understood,  as  if  she  had  said  something  to  console  him.  He  dropped  the  napkins  into  their  basket  and,  with  a  murmured  excuse,  left  the  room.  In  the  drawing  room,  he  recovered  his  book  and  reading  glasses-placed  on  the  table  when  the  lunch  bell  rang-and  opened  one  of  the  shuttered  doors  into  the  garden.  \'The  door  was  weighted  with  the  heat  that  met  him  as  he  stepped  outside;  it  fell  heavily  back  into  place  behind  him.  It  annoyed  him  that  Har-  riet  should  go  out  at  a  time  when  all  other  people-all  of  4974616c79-rested;  an-  noyed  him  that  he  was  unable  to  turn  his  annoyance  into  anything  but  con-  cern,  for  real  anger  might  have  alle-  viated  his  misery.  He  made  his  way  around  to  the  front  of  the  house,  his  mind  presenting  his  predicament  to  him  in  words  so  simple  that  they  might,  but  for  the  context,  have  been  uttered  by  a  child:  &quot;She  does  not  love  me  any  more.&quot;  Then,  &quot;She  loves  someone  else.&quot;  But  if  that  was  so,  why  were  they  here,  to-  gether,  trying  to  make  things  work  again?  He  brushed  with  his  shoulder  the  dying  fronds  of  wisteriaat  the  cor-  ner  of  the  house,  and  stood  in  the  wall\'s  shadow,  looking  for  Harriet.  In  front  of  the  house  was  a  formal  garden,  and  from  this  a  crescent  of  graded  steps  descended  to  an  avenue  of  ilex.  The  short  avenue  was  never  used  now,  the  house  having  been  connected  with  the  road  by  a  separate,  gravelled  drive  that  led  to  the  kitchen  door.  The  trees,  which  needed  trimming,  met  overhead  and  stood  deep  in  weeds  and  wild  flowers.  Throughout  the  day,  hens  wandered  into  the  avenue  and  picked  among  the  straggling  grass  and  made  their  way  haltingly  up  the  steps  to  stare  into  the  ordered  garden.  From  time  to  time,  on  the  road  below,  a  car  passed,  going  toward  Florence,  and  country  sounds  reached  the  house  from  the  sur-  rounding  slopes.  Harriet  sat  now  on  the  lowest  of  the  arc  of  steps,  her  back  curved  in  the  sun,  her  face  pressed  into  her  arms,  which  were  folded  on  her  drawn-up  knees.  The  sleeves  of  her  pink  blouse  had  been  rolled  up,  and  her  skin  was  moist  with  heat.  Her  cotton  skirt  was  carelessly  bunched  under  her.  She  was  motionless,  not  even  roused  by  the  hens  rustling  near  her  feet.  Her  attitude  was  so  abject,  so  forlorn,  that  Francis,  at  the  top  of  the  steps,  stood  quite  still  before  he  called  her  name.  &quot;Harriet.&quot;  The  face  she  raised  to  him,  however,  was  smooth  and  preoccupied,  only  creased  above  the  eyes  by  the  pressure  of  a  bracelet.  He  came  slowly  down,  dropping  from  stepto  step,  and  sat  just  above  her,  his  knee  touching  her  shoul-  der.  She  put  no  weight  on  him.  After  a  moment,  she  resumed  her  former  posi-  tion  without  speaking.  He  opened  his  book  at  the  beginning  and  shaded  the  print  with  his  hand.  He  ' b"had  had  a  shock,  coming  upon  her  like  that.  And  her  calm  uplifted  face  had  not  reassured  him-because  whatwas  shocking,  he  thought  as  he  turned  the  first  page,  was  that  it  had  seemed  per-  fectly  plausible  that  she,  who  had  been  chattering  pleasantly  enough  at  the  lunch  table  a  few  minutes  before,  might  have  come  out  here  and  thrown  herself  down  in  this  abandoned  attitude  in  real  anguish.  It  would  have  been  terrible  to  find  her  so,  but  not  surprising;  people  in  general,  and  he  and  she  in  particular,  were  so  separate  that  anything  was  pos-  sible.  That  knowledge  moved  him  to  press  his  knee  once  more  against  her  bent  shoulder.  Feeling,perhaps,  that  some  response  was  required  of  her,  she  turned  her  cheek  toward  him,  her  eyes  closed.  &quot;Hens  are  ghastly,&quot;  she  observed.  And  then,  &quot;Read  me  something.&quot;  He  read  aloud  the  lines  he  had  just  reached:  &quot;...  Ferme  les  portes  Il  est  plus  facile  de  mourir  que  d'  aimer.&quot;  &quot;Heavens,&quot;  she  said,  and  turned  her  face  back  into  her  arms.  He  closed  the  book  and  put  it  on  the  stone  step  beside  him.  He  looked  down  at  her  huddled  body  and  dark,  shaggy  head,  her  brown  arms  and  exposed  knees,  the  tail  of  her  blouse,  which  had  come  out  of  her  skirt.  He  parted  the  hair  on  her  neck  and  laid  his  hand  there.  &quot;Come  inside,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  can't  stay  out  in  this  heat.&quot;  She  tilted  her  head  once  more.  &quot;In  a  moment,&quot;  she  replied.  &quot;No,&quot;  he  insisted.  &quot;Really.  It's  the  worst  part  of  the  day.&quot;  &quot;In  a  moment,&quot;  she  repeated,  wish-  ing  he  would  take  his  hand,  which  had  become  quite  damp,  off  her  neck.  One  can't  ask  to  be  left  alone,  she  thought,  or  not  to  be  touched,  even  once  in  a  great  while,  without  creating  a  scene-  without  changing  everything.  Do  we  have  anything  in  common  at  all,  she  wondered-almost  idly,  because  the  sun  had  drained  her.  Will  we  manage  it?  Sometimes  itis  all  right.  But  not  today.  She  sat  up  straight,  thrusting  her  hair  back  from  her  forehead.  He  rose  and  helped  her  to  her  feet.  She  brushed  at  her  skirt  and  made  a  perfunctory  effort  to  push  her  blouse  back  in  at  the  waist.  They  went  up  the  steps  together.  The  hallway  was  cool  and  darkened  and  smelled  strongly  of  the  carnations  that  stood,  white  and  red,  in  abig  ce-  ramic  jar  on  the  marble  table.  The  stairs,  which  were  of  white  stone,  pro-  jected  from  a  wall  of  colossal  depth,  so  that,  climbing  them,  one  imagined  oneself  scaling  a  cliff.  The  house  had  been  intended  for  pleasure,  and  per-  haps  that  was  why  it  was  built  like  a  fortress.  The  Stapletons'  room  also  was  in  darkness,  for  the  maids  had  closed the      shutters  throughout  the  house.  When  Harriet  opened  them,  it  seemed  that  heat,  no  less  than  light,  filled  the  room,  igniting  the  red  stone  tiles,  the  pale  walls,  the  two  narrow  white  beds  and  their  ornaments  of  brass.  Below  the  window,  as  she  looked  down,  a  garden  enclosed  by  a  tall  hedge  of  ilex  was  brilliant,  too,  a  square  of  oleander,  phlox,  and  petunias.  Descending  softly  from  the  house,  the  country  rose  again  into  a  freshly  plowed  hillside  and  a  sky-  line  black-pencilled  with  cypresses.  She  lay  down  on  her  bed.  Francis  came  and  sat  beside  her  on  the  edge  of  the  bed,  filling  her  vision.  She  moved  her  head  toward  him  on  the  pillow  with-  out  rising,  like  a  sick  person.  She  had  spoiled  his  tranquil,  costly  summer.  Too  much  was  wrong  between  them  for  these  fine  days  to  be  enjoyed,  or  this  idyllic  place.  'They  did  not  blame  each  other,  having  been  educated  since  the  days  when  faults  could  be  attributed;  nevertheless,  it  seemed  that  the  sense  of  grievance  was  very  strong.  It  was  the  worst  moment  of  the  day-an  in-  articulate  exchange  of  pain.  She  could  not  speak  yet,  or  make  promises,  and  in  any  case  the  reassurances  she  could  give  were  too  meagre  to  offer.  Detached,  she  pitied  him,  too,  and  saw  that  she  had  never  been  more  dear  than  now,  when  she  lay  there  excluding  him  with  her  indifference  and  her  look  of  displeasure.  On  her  knee,  his  fingers  became  points  " b"of  heat  through  the  light  cotton  skirt.  &quot;All  right?&quot;  he  asked,  helplessly.  &quot;I  thought  I  might  sleep.&quot;  &quot;Shall  we  go  down  to  town  before  dinner?&quot;  &quot;See  how  we  feel.  After  I've  rested,  I  may  take  a  walk.&quot;  And,  to  forestall  him,  &quot;I'll  be  back  in  time  to  go  in  to  town.&quot;  He  rose  and  pulled  one  of  the  shut-  ters,  so  that  her  face  was  shielded  from  sunlight.  With  indignation  and  long-  ing,  he  felt  disqualified  from  kissing  her  as  he  turned  to  leave.  It  was  almost  as  if  he  did  not  dare  to.  &quot;If  I  were  you,&quot;  she  said,  elaborating  their  estrangement,  &quot;if  I  were  you,  I  should  have  a  look  at  the  car  before  we  go.\xe2\x80\x9d  Pondering  the  discomfort  of  having  hurt  her  husband  and  the  relief  afforded  by  his  departure,  Harriet  folded  her  hands  across  her  breast.  Somewhere,  one  of  the  maids  was  ironing,  her  soft  singing  accompanied  by  the  thump  and  clash  of  the  iron.  Down  at  the  road,  a  dog  and  a  scooter  barked  together  through  the  roar  of  a  truck  climbing  the  hill;  a  woman  called;  a  child  cried  out.  Harriet  stared  at  the  ceiling,  the  physical  displacement  of  her  sorrow  ex-  panding  within  her-difficulty  of  respi-  ration,  and  an  aching  in  ears  and  eyes.  She  wondered  if  this  were,  after  all,  the  worst  moment  of  the  day,  and  thought  of  the  scene  in  the  kitchen  ev-  ery  morning  when  the  letters  came.  (It  was  the  butcher  who  brought  the  mail  from  Florence  once  a  day;  his  small  gray  delivery  car  trundled  up  the  drive  about  eleven  o'clock.  Occasionally  he  was  late.  There  was  talk  with  the  maids  before  the  bundle  was  laid  down,  with  the  day's  meat,  on  the  kitchen  table,  and  there  were  papers,  circulars,  letters  to  be  turned  over  before  Harriet  could  be  sure  that  there  was  nothing  for  her.  Sometimes  there  was  an  envelope  with  an  English  stamp,  and  for  a  moment  anxiety  would  be  replaced  by  apprehen-  sion-for  what  could  now  be  written  that  she  might  want  to  read?  )  She  knew  she  must  not  weep,  and  she  watched  the  ceiling  with  the  same  impassive  face  and  dry  eyes  she  had  turned  to  her  husband  in  the  garden.  It  seemed  to  her  that  the  tears  were  flowing  inside  her  head.  The  wheel  of  her  mind  turned  labo-  riously  on  a  familiar  route,  as  though  a  required  number  of  revolutions  might  set  it  in  easy  motion.  The  ray  of  sunlight  lay  flat  on  the  farthest  wall,  patterned  by  the  vines  about  the  window  frame.  The  house  at  this  hour  became  a  well  of  greenish  light  filtered  through  the  color  of  its  shutters.  From  time  to  time,  a  cicada  droned  from  the  garden,  pressing  upon  the  silence  a  weight  that  seemed  to  seal  it  completely.  The  after-  noon  swung  Harriet,  immobilized,  be-  tween  sleeping  and  waking,  and  slowly  closed  on  the  distraction  of  pain.  HEN  Francis  came  downstairs,  he  found  [REDACTED]  preparing  to  go  into  the  garden.  &quot;It's  all  right,&quot;  she  told  him,  lifting  her  hand  a  little  to  check  his  protest.  &quot;I'm  going  to  tie  up  one  or  two  plants  and  come  straight  back.&quot;  There  had  been  a  storm  the  night  before.  He  followed  her  into  the  garden,  feeling  rather  like  a  child  with  whom  other  children  will  not  play,  and  who  is  allowed,  for  that  reason,  to  trail  about  after  the  grownups.  [REDACTED]  puther  implements  down  by  a  bed  of  dahlias  and  drew  on  a  pair  of  blackened  gardening  gloves.  She  knelt  to  examine  the  fallen  plants,  and  after  a  moment  looked  up  at  Francis,  shielding  her  eves  from  the  sun  with  her  gloved  hand.  &quot;The  sticks,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Would " b"you  mind?  In  the  shed  at  the  back  of  the  house.  But  not  the  short  ones,&quot;  she  called  as  he  turned  away.  &quot;The  long  ones,  in  the  corner  near  the  door.&quot;  Francis  walked  down  the  path,  the  sun  press-  ing  on  his  head  and  shoulders.  The  dim  shed,  smelling  of  earth  and  fertilizers,  was  cool  after  the  garden.  In  the  corner  near  the  door  were  a  hoe,  a  rake,  a  stack  of  pots,  and  an  en-  crusted  trowel.  The  on-  ly  sticks  he  could  find,  on  a  shelf,  were  too  short  for  [REDACTED]'s  pur-  pose,  but  after  a  hast;  search  in  the  half  dark-  ness  he  took  them  back  into  the  garden.  [REDACTED]  did  not  hear  him  return,  and  he  stood  looking  at  her  as  she  bent  over  the  plants.  All  her  actions  were  complete  and  reassuring,  all  her  attitudes  graceful  and  yielding.  As  she  worked,  she  watched  her  own  hands  with  a  reflective  smile,  and  her  hair  fell  forward  across  her  cheek  and  swung  with  the  movements  of  her  arms.  It  occurred  to  Francis  that  he  had  never  been  so  close  to  beauty.  His  need  for  deliverance,  for  human  comfort,  was  so  great  that  for  a  moment  he  thought  he  had  actually  taken  [REDACTED]  in  his  arms,  and  could  feel  under  his  fingers  the  worn  material  of  her  dress  and  the  delicate  bones  of  her  shoulders.  &quot;Oh,  [REDACTED].&quot;  He  fell  on  his  knees  beside  her,  his  hands  still  full  ofthe  sticks  from  the  shed.  &quot;[REDACTED].&quot;  She  looked  up  abruptly.  Kneeling,  they  stared  at  each  other.  His  eyes  dazzled.  He  lifted  his  closed  hands.  &quot;I  could  only  find  the  small  sticks.&quot;  She  was  very  pale,  For  an  instant,  he  could  imagine  how  she  might  look  if  she  were  ever  tolose  her  composure.  She  sat  back  on  her  heels.  &quot;They  must  be  there,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'll  go  and  look.&quot;  She  got  up  and  left  him  on  his  knees  on  the  grass,  his  hands  extended  and  full  of  short,  blunt  sticks.  [REDACTED].  Fenwick,  at  his  window,  was  relieved  to  see  the  young  man  get  up  and  come  inside;  the  sun  was  downright  dangerous.  Surely  the  sum-  mer  should  be  over  by  now,  even  here,  he  expostulated  to  himself.  He  would   have  expostulated  to  Mrs,  Fenwick,  but  a  deep,  regular  breathing  from  the  bed  promised  him  little  response.  She  had  taken  off  her  shoes  and  lain  down  to  sleep,  with  a  scented  handkerchief  on  her  forehead,  as  soon  as  they  came  up-  stairs  from  lunch.  But  Mr.  Fenwick  maintained,  at  the  window,  something  approaching  a  vigil,  holding  his  book  (Trollope:  &quot;Phineas  Finn&quot;)  firmly  on  his  knee.  Someone  must,  after  all,  keep  their  wits  about  them.  HEN  he  saw  Francis  leave  the  garden,  Daniele  closed  and  latched  his  shutters  and  sat  down  in  an  arm-  chair.  He  propped  his  feet  on  the  end  of  the  bed  and  laid  his  open  book  (Auso-  nius:  &quot;Mosella&quot;  )  upside  down  in  his  lap.  [REDACTED]  asks  for  this,  he  told  himself-  invites  confidences,  implies  sympathy,  and  then  isn't  prepared  to  go  through  with  it.  She  is  as  incapable  of  living,  of  truly  living,  as  I,  he  conceded-with  a  suggestion  of  high  praise.  She  likes  to  preside  serenely  over  the  emotions  of  others,  but  she  doesn't  care  to  partici-  pate.  And  those  who  do  participate  seem  shrill  or  untidy  by  comparison.  This  wave  of  resentment,  subsiding,  was  replaced  by  an  image,  as  true  as  if  he  had  risento  confirm  it  from  the  win-  dow,  of  [REDACTED]  alone  in  the  garden  in  the  heat,  patiently  restoring  the  dahlias.  Still,  hecontinued  to  himself  (ef-  fortlessly,  because  he  considered  these  things  almost  every  afternoon  ),  we  are  unreal.  We  shall  never  do  anything  now  except  go  on  here,  feeling  the  ex-  tent  of  our  losses.  We've  been  obsolete  since  .  ..  (Here  he  left  in  his  mind  the  row  of  dots  that  stood  for  Fascism,  the  war,  debts,  the  last  illness  of  his  father,  the  death  of  [REDACTED]'s  husband,  who  had  had  a  heart  attack  in  1949  while  hang-  ing  a  painting  in  his  house  in  Milan-  matters  now  too  familiar  to  cause  pain  or  merit  reiteration.  )  On  the  other  hand,  he  concluded,  Harriet  and  Francis-exasperating  as  they  may  be  at  the  moment-are  real.  He  pictured  Harriet  intrepidly  hailing  a  [REDACTED]  bus  or  standing  in  a  crowded  room  with  a  glass  in  her  hand.  (He  himself  never  entered  a  shop  or  made  a  new  acquaintance  without  reluctance  and  apprehension.)  And  there  was  something  admirable  about  being  close  enough  to  love  to  be  able  to  quarrel  over  it.  The  thought  of  Harriet,  now,  lying  tormented  on  her  bed-crying,  possibly-because  of  love,  filled  him  with  wonder  and  envy.  He  turned  his  book  over  and  switched  on  the  lamp  at  his  side.  DING  on  her  back  with  her  eyes  closed,  Harriet  reached  out  her  arm  for  the  little  travelling  clock,  lifted  it  onto  her  chest,  and  held  it  there,  too  sleepy  to  look  at  it.  It  rose  and  fell  on  her  breastbone  for  a  few  moments,  and  then  tumbled  forward  with  a  glassy  slap.  Raising  the  clock  before  her  face,  she  " b"opened  her  eyes.  &quot;Five  past  four,&quot;  she  announced.  She  put  theclock  back  on  the  table  and  looked  about  the  room.  On  the  wall,  the  sunlight  seemed  less  certain  now,  the  design  of  leaves  a  little  blurred.  &quot;Yes?&quot;  she  called,  in  answer  to  a  knock  on  her  door.  [REDACTED]  came  into  the  room  and  leaned  on  the  high  brass  rail  at  the  end  of  thebed.  Harriet  once  again  had  the  sensation  of  being  treated  as  an  invalid,  and  sat  up,  cross-legged,  smoothing  her  skirt  over  her  knees.  &quot;You've  changed  your  dress,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  got  muddy  from  gardening,&quot;  [REDACTED]  explained.  \xc2\xab'You  shouldn't  have  gone  out  in  the  sun,&quot;  Harriet  said,  with  satisfaction.  &quot;It  did  me  no  harm.  Did  you  sleep?  I  came  to  ask  if  you  would  come  down  for  tea.&quot;  Tea,  unexpectedly,  was  al-  ways  precisely  that-thin,  hot  tea  in  chipped  cups,  uncompromised  by  cakes  or  biscuits.  &quot;Is  it  really  time  for  tea?&quot;  Harriet  glanced  again  at  the  clock.  &quot;I  thought  the  afternoon  would  never  end.  Didn't  you?&quot;  [REDACTED]  straightened  her  back  and  smiled.  &quot;Every  afternoon  of  the  summer,  I  have  serious  doubts  of  the  eve-  ning,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;No  amount  of  repeti-  tion  reassures  me.&quot;  She  released  the  brass  bar  of  the  bed.  &quot;I  must  go  and  see  if  Daniele  wants  tea.&quot;  Harriet  lowered  a  foot  to  the  floor,  feeling  for  her  sandals,  and  promised  to  come  downstairs.  But  as  the  door  closed,  she  crossed  the  room  and,  rest-  ing  her  hands  on  the  window  sill,  looked  again  into  the  garden.  The  light  was  the  easier  light  of  late  afternoon.  Far-  ther  along  the  wall,  between  the  col-  umns  of  the  loggia,  geraniums  were  fluttered  by  a  faint  breeze.  On  a  near-  by  hill,  a  bell  was  rung-an  unmelodious,  useful  country  bell.  Two  little  barefoot  girls  in  faded  pink  dresses  and  straw  hats  were  carrying  to  the  kitchen  a  basket  of  zucchini  for  the  evening  meal.  Each  held  a  handle,  and  the  tilt-  ing  basket  was  covered  by  the  golden  flowers  of  the  plant;  these  would  be  fried  tomorrow  for  the  lunch  table.  Harriet  turned  to  the  mirror,  where  a  face  glimmered  in  the  glass,  shadowed  by  tousled  hair.  She  would  go  and  look  for  Francis,  with  some  atoning  sugges-  tion  fora  walk  together.  Oppressed  by  obligation,  she  leaned  her  elbows  on  the  bureau  and  heard  him  calling  her  some-  where  in  the  house.  Inaudibly  and  me-  chanically,  she  answered  him.  &quot;Yes,  dear.&quot;  The  endearment  was  disconcerting-  ly  sharp,  but  she  looked  again  into  the  glass  and,  as  his  steps  drew  near,  slowly  began  to  comb  her  hair.  43616e616461S.  FENwICK  stirred,  lifted  the  handkerchief  from  her  brow,  and  wondered  where  she  was.  At  the  window,  the  pages  of  &quot;Phineas  Finn&quot;  slipping  under  his  fingers,  Mr.  Fen-  wick  closed  his  eyes  and  slept.  "