 b'"OH!  Oh,  no!  Don\'t  let  him  get  out!  Catch  him!&quot;  But  it  was  too  late.  Thomas,  who  knew  as  well  as  Amy  that  they  were  leaving  the  cottage  the  next  morn-  ing,  slid  pastthe  legs  of  friends  who  had  come  to  say  goodbye,  and-even  as  everyone  vainly  lunged-his  striped  tail  flickered  and  disappeared  across  the  open  porch.  He  had  escaped  into  the  night  for  one  last  fling  of  moonlight,  and  mous-  ing,  and  moling.  Next  morning  he  was  not  there.  Feeling  like  a  lady  in  a  ballad  who  paces  castle  ramparts  watching  for  her  lord\'s  delayed  return,  Amy  paced  the  porch.  The  packed  car,  with  the  cat  basket  open  on  the  front  seat,  waited  out  back  in  the  sandy  drive.  The  cottage  was  clean  and  empty,  ready  for  the  Hendon  family  to  move  in.  When  Amy  had  gone  to  bed,  she  had  left  the  kitchen  screen  door  open  and  had  bent  and  poured  the  last  of  the  cream,  intended  for  her  morning  coffee,  into  Thomas\'s  dish.  Sometime  during  the  night  this  cream  had  been  lapped  up,  but  now  where  was  he?  No  tinkle  of  bells,  no  mew  of  remorse,  no  lithe  and  wicked  little  tiger  shape  sidling  round  the  corner  of  the  house  as  she  paced  and  called.  But  had  he,  perhaps,  sated  with  undeserved  cream,  slipped  silently  upstairs  in  the  dark  and  gone  to  sleep  behind  something?  She  went  to  look,  for  five  minutes  permitting  herself  to  entertain  the  hope.  There  wasn\'t  even  a  speck  of  dust  behind  anything,  so  unnecessar-  ily  fiercely  had  she,  unaccustomed  to  renting,  prepared  her  cottage  for  the  HCndOnS.  If  she  got  her  bathing  suit  from  the  car  and  went  for  another  last  swim,  per-  haps  he  would  be  sitting,  repentant  and  affectionate,  on  the  doorstep  waiting  for  her  when  she  got  back,  and  they  could  leave  at  once.  On  the  other  hand,  he  might  come  home  while  she  was  swim-  ming  and,  not  finding  her,  cavort  off  for  another  hour  of  freedom.  She  tele-  phoned  her  husband  in  town  that  she  wasn\'t  going  to  be  able  to  get  there  in  time  for  lunch  withhim.  &quot;Don\'t  forget  this  is  an  August  1st  call,&quot;  he  said.  \xc2\xabWell!  What  of  that?&quot;  Amy  was  cross  with  Thomas  and  took  it  out,  as  [|  one  does,  on  the  innocent.  &quot;It\'ll  goon  the  Hendons\'  bill.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  so  it  will.  Oh  dear,  how  com-  plicated  it  is  to  rent.  I  can  see  why  we\'ve  never  gone  in  for  it.  And  I  had  such  trouble,  too,  yesterday,  with  the  laun-' b" dryman,  who-  Hey!  I  hear  Thomas!  Goodbye!&quot;  But  it  must  have  been  someone's  far-  off  bicycle  bell.  Porch,  lawn,  meadow,  and  road  were  empty.  She  plucked  &quot;Henry  Esmond&quot;  at  random  from  a  bookcase  and  went  to  sit  at  a  tactful  re-  move  from  the  cottage,  so  the  Hendons,  arriving,  wouldn't  feel  she  was  inter-  loping.  She  settled  in  a  long  chair  under  an  apple  tree  at  the  edge  of  the  meadow.  Every  other  minute  she  looked  up  from  the  confusing  genealogy  of  the  Castle-  wood  family;  perhaps  it  wouldn't  have  been  so  confusing  to  a  reader  whose  real  concern  wasn't  to  catch  a  glimpse  of  a  missing  animal  returning.  She  skipped  a  little,  flipping  over  pages.  She  had  ex-  pected  the  Hendons  might  come  before  this,  and  she  kept  a  lookout  for  them,  too,  and  polished  up  a  few  half-apologet-  ic,  half-humorous  phrases  to  account  for  her  irregular  presence.  Luncheon,  taken  early,  was  a  little  warm  ginshe  was  lucky  enough  to  find  in  the  bottom  of  a  bottle,  and  the  packet  of  frozen  peas  she  had  hospitably  left  in  the  icebox  for  the  Hendons.  &quot;Though  the  troopers  of  the  King's  Life  Guards  were  all  gentlemen,  yet  the  rest  of  the  gentlemen  seemed  igno-  rant  and  vulgar  boors  to  Harry  Es-  mond-&quot;  Suddenly  Amy  remembered  the  two-o'clock  appointment  she  had  in  town  with  a  possible  cook.  But  what's  ||  a  stranger-cook  compared  with  a  cat  of  ||  long  standing?  &quot;I  can't  just  say  &quot;Too  ||  bad  about  him,'  and  leave,&quot;  she  told  herself.  Oh,  the  friend  he  was,  and  had  been,  for  five  years!  Winter  nights  he  slept  hard  against  her  stomach,  warm-  ing  them  both.  She  couldn't  abandon  him  now,  leave  him  to  become  one  of  [||  those  sad  and  slinking  summer-loved  cats  summer  people  are  said,  in  many  a  chiding  newspaper  article,  to  leave  be-  hind  them  when  they  go  back  to  town.  $  He  would  get  even  thinner  than  hewas,  and  discouraged,  Thomas  would,  and  ||  run  from  one  cottage  to  another,  at  first  |  searching  for  her,  then  only  for  food.  Tears  blurred  Thackeray.  Thomas  had  ||  been  gone  twelve  hours  now.  She  thought  of  dogs,  and  careless  summer  ||  drivers.  The  Hendons'  car  swept  into  the  ||  drive  and  five  occupants  in  shorts  tumbled  out.  The  oldest,  whom  Amy  took  to  be  an  elder  sister,  proved  to  be  the  mother  of  the  four  others.  &quot;I'm  not  really  here  at  all,  Mrs.  Hen-  don!&quot;  Amy  said.  &quot;I'll  go  the  minute  my  foolish  cat  comes  back.  I've  never  rent-  ed  before,  but  I  do  know  I  ought  to  be  gone  by  now.&quot;  &quot;Who's  she?&quot;  a  very  small  girl  asked,  " b"but  Mrs.  Hendon  was  instantly  sym-  pathetic,  and  expressed  confidence  that  Thomas  would  turn  up  at  any  minute,  and  herself  persuaded  a  low-hung  little  gray  Hendon  dog,  Periwinkle  by  name,  who  came  plumping  down  from  the  car,  to  go  into  the  house.  &quot;Stay  in  there,&quot;  she  admonished  him.  Seeing  a  strange  dog  might  well  put  Thomas  off,  she  and  Amy  agreed.  Amy  retired  to  her  long  chair  under  the  tree.  The  hours  moved  across  the  sky.  Nobody  could  say  she  was  in  the  way,  but  she  knew  the  situation  to  be  exceptional.  Henry  Esmond  caught  the  smallpox.  Sun  dappled  down  through  the  leaves  on  thin,  Bible-paper  pages.  When  from  time  to  time  she  closed  the  book  to  go  and  prow!  the  boundaries  of  the  lawn,  she  found  the  ruined,  dry  dark-green  leather  covers  had  given  off  flakes  in  her  lap.  Between  these  fruitless  searches  she  grew  very  tired  of  the  bat-  tles  of  Malplaquet  and  Oudenarde,and  also  of  Beatrix's  curl-tossing  and  eye-  rolling,  and  of  Rachel's  meek  charms.  It's  hard  for  one  woman  to  read  indefi-  nitely  about  the  irresistibleness  of  an-  other;  there's  a  limit,  on  a  hot  after-  noon,  to  the  number  of  times  one  wants  to  be  told  how  fair  are  dimpled  hands.  In  [REDACTED],  in  August,  who  wants  to  know?  Two  little  Hendon  boys,  as  much  alike  as  makes  no  difference,  scampered  to  her  across  the  meadow  grass.  &quot;We're  George  and  Andy.  When  we  see'm,  we'll  catch  that  cat  for  you  by  his  tail,&quot;  one  offered,  and  the  other  said,  sternly,  from  under  the  peak  of  a  motorman's  outsize  blue  denim  hat,  &quot;'That  cat  will  have  to  be  spanked.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  he'll  have  to  be,  [REDACTED];  Amy  agreed.  &quot;I'm  George,&quot;  said  the  child.  When  the  Hendons  went  for  a  late-  afternoon  swim,  Amy  made  a  shy  foray  into  her  own  kitchen  and  opened  a  very  small  tin  of  chicken  and  ate  it  quickly,  with  a  fork,  standing.  Later,  Mrs.  Hen-  don  sent  a  seven-  or  eight-year-old  daughter  out  to  her  with  a  Martini.  The  child  negotiated  the  meadow  on  careful,  tocing-in  sneakered  feet.  How  terribly  nice  they  are  to  me,  Amy  thought.  Not  having  spilled  a  drop,  the  little  girl  handed  over  the  brimming  glass.  &quot;Mummy  says  to  come  in  to  supper  with  us.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  thank  you.  Thank  you  so  much,  but  I've  had  mine.&quot;  After  an  initial  puzzlement,  the  chil-  dren  were  taking  her  for  granted;  she  was  just  that  woman  who  mostly  sat  under  a  tree  with  a  small  book.  To  their  young,  uninstructed,  but  flexible  minds,     probably  it  seemed  this  was  what  rent- " b"ing  a  cottage  entailed-a  resident  inter-  loper,  and,  furthermore,  one  who  spent  her  nights  on  the  living-room  sofa.  For  that  is  what  her  vigil  came  down  to.  She  reversed  the  charges  on  a  telephone  call  to  her  husband,  then  undressed  in  the  car.  &quot;But  that's  where  my  clothes  are,  you  see,&quot;  Amy  pointed  out  to  hos-  pitable  Mrs.  Hendon,  who  suggested  she  use  a  bedroom.  Lights  went  out  blessedly  early  all  over  the  cottage.  Periwinkle,  who  wasn't  built  for  it,  was  eased  up  the  stairs,  and  he  could  be  heard  settling  down,  obedient  if  surprised,  on  the  bare  floor  of  the  room  above.  Amy  worked  herself  down  into  the  unconventional  arrangement  of  sheet  and  blanket  and  bed  pillow  Mrs.  Hendon  had  devised  for  her  on  the  sofa,  and  lay  there  in  the  dark,  wide  awake.  The  doors  at  both  ends  of  the  room  were  open  to  the  night,  so  that  the  slightest  pawfall  would  be  heard  at  once.  Duck  were  down  in  the  marsh,  quacking  and  settling  for  the  night,  and  there  was  a  faraway  motor-  boat  out  in  the  Sound.  Heavens,  Amy  thought,  what  a  horribly  soft  sofa!  Cer-  tainly  if  they  ever  rented  again  they  must  buy  a  firmer  sofa;  you  couldn't  expect  tenants  to  put  up  with  anything  as  rocky  and  lumpy  and  bumpy  as  this  one.  Nar-  row  it  was,  too.  Odd  she'd  never  no-  ticed  it  before.  But  I  wonder  if  I  will  ever  rent  again,  she  mused;  it  seems  to  be  .  ..  to  be  so  ...  She  slept.  Like  a  woman  whose  child  has  dou-  ble  pneumonia,  she  was  jerked  awake  by  a  faint  sound-four  small  fur  feet  landing  on  the  porch  floor.  '''Thomas,  Thomas,  Thomas!&quot;  she  whispered,  and  crept  out  through  the  screen  door.  There  he  was,  wreathing  and  writhing  round  the  leg  of  a  chair.  Moonlight  caught  on  the  tips  of  his  whiskers  and  flowed  over  the  guard  hairs  up  along  his  back,  aureoling  his  head  and  giving  him  the  quite  illusory  look  ofa  seraphic  cat.  She  felt  such  a  shock  of  pure  joy  to  see  him  there-  as,  not  killed  after  all,  aliveas  ever," b"himself,  her  loved  friend,  home  safe.  'You  angel,&quot;  she  said,  and  gathered  him  up.  On  her  way  to  put  him  in  the  car  till  morning,  she  stopped  in  the  kitchen  and,  by  the  light  of  the  moon  falling  through  a  window,  scrawled  on  the  grocery  pad  a  gay  &quot;Ahal  Attrap\xc3\xa9!  We  leave  at  dawn.  1,000  thanks.  Ever,  Thomas  and  Amy.&quot;  The  grass  was  soaking  wet  in  the  back  yard,  but  she  was  so  relieved  and  thankful  she  plodded  through  it  without  complaint.  Into  the  car  went  Thomas,  who  turned  to  glare  at  her  through  the  glass.  His  whiskered  face  was  furious.  :|  &quot;I  suppose  there's  no  air  at  all  in  there,  is  there?&quot;  she  said  to  him.  His  tail  lashed  the  back  of  the  seat.  Very  cautiously,  holding  his  eyes  with  hers,  she  undid  a  door  two  inches  to  roll  down  the  window  one  inch,  and  he  was  through  the  gap  like  a  shot  and  away  off  along  the  moonlit,  sandy  drive.  His  tail  was  straight  up  and  out  behind,  triumphant;  big  as  a  baseball  bat,  it  disappeared  into  the  fringe  of  fern  at  the  edge  of  acres  and  acres  of  blueberry  and  other,  name-  less,  scratchy  bushes.  Deflated,  defeated,  exhausted,  deep-  :|  ly  disappointed,  and  guilty,  and  tearful,  *]  Amy  trailed  through  the  wet  back  to  the  cottage.  How  horribly  strong  and  de-  termined  and  agile  he  was  for  such  a  small  cat-determined,  and  not  very  witty.  The  hem  of  her  nightgown  was  cold  as  ice.  &quot;He  doesn't  do  it  to  be  mean,&quot;  she  muttered  as  she  insinuated  herself  into  the  cocoon  on  the  sofa.  &quot;And  he  doesn't  do  it  to  be  funny,  I  hope.&quot;  She  lay  for  a  moment  before  she  wriggled  wearily  out  again  and  went  to  the  kitchen  to  crumple  up  and  throw  away  her  airy  note.  Heaven  help  her.  Did  she  face  another  long  day  with  Henry  Esmond  under  the  apple  tree?  Another  night  in  the  dark  living  room?     THE  hours  were  very  slow  about  going  by.  The  sofa  was  too  nar-  row  to  turn  on  with  any  comfort.  She  thought  she  would  have  to  creep  up-  stairs  and  get  several  aspirin  tablets  from  the  bathroom,  but  then  gave  up  this  idea.  Because  of  Periwinkle's  having  to  be  kept  up  there  so  he  wouldn't  put  Thomas  off,  the  baby  gate  had  been  stretched  across  the  top  of  the  stairs,  and  who  should  know  better  than  she  the  sereech-scrawtich  that  gate  let  out  the  minute  a  hand  was  laid  on  it?  Wide-  eyed  in  the  darkness,  wide-eared,  she  could  hear  Periwinkle,  patient  and  un-  comfortable,  scrabbling  with  his  toe-  nails  as  he  shifted  and  turned  on  the  bare  boards  above  her  head.  He's  not" b'sleeping  in  his  accustomed  place,  either,  poor  creature.  What  a  charmingly  apa-  thetic  animal  Periwinkle  was;  he  must  make  a  delightful  pet,  one  who  never-  There  came  a  soft  sound  on  the  porch,  the  brush  of  fur  against  the  screen  door.  &quot;Oh,  God  be  thanked!&quot;  she  said,  loud  and  clear.  This  time  she  ran  through  the  wet  grass  and  never  even  looked  at  him  as  she  tossed  him  intothe  car. '