 b"THEY  got  down  from  the  bus  in  the  middle  of  a  straight,  flat  stretch  of  the  Via  Tiburtina.  It  was  the  midday  bus  from  Rome,  loaded  with  visiting  relatives  and  returning  farmers,  and  at  the  windows  heads  turned  to  watch  the  two  foreigners  descend  to  the  country  road.  First,  the  man  got  down,  his  camera  strap  over  his  shoulder,  his  jacket  over  his  arm,  a  book  in  his  hand.  The  bus  waited,  quivering.  He  extended  his  free  hand  to  the  woman,  who,  slightly  gathering  her  dress,  nego-  tiated  the  deep  steps.  &quot;Vanno  alla  villa&quot;  was  exchanged  around  the  bus.  The  conductor  called  to  the  driver,  the  door  clanged,  and  they  were  left  behind  in  a  cloud  of  dust.  Because  this  was  the  higher  part  of  the  plain  across  which  they  had  come,  they  could  see  it  stretching  back  in  the  direction  of  Rome-a  dry,  untidy   canis  shrubbery  posted  with  olive  trees  and  cypresses  and  a  litter  of  small  houses,  rammed  by  the  sun.  Behind  them,  where  the  bus  was  already  climbing  the  steep  slope  to  [REDACTED],  the  mountains  were  white,  almost  featureless  in  the  heat,  and  scrabbled  with  vineyards  and  umbrella  pines.  &quot;VILLA  ADRIANA,&quot;  said  the  notice  under  which  they  turned  off  into  a  lane.  Where  it  joined  the  main  road,  the  lane  was  quite  suburban.  It  was  lined  withraw,  shuttered  houses  and  with  groups  of  oleanders  that  gave  no  shade  and  weighted  the  air  with  a  sugary  smell.  But  a  little  farther  the  countryside  closed  in,  and  the  two  of  them  wandered  on  in  shadow,  scarcely  speaking,  her  hand  through  the  crook  of  his  free  arm.In  the  mid-  dle  of  a  wood,  the  trees  gave  way  to  a  parking  area.  Crossing  this  open  space  between  two  empty  tourist  buses,  they  entered  the  gates  of  the  villa.  &quot;So  you  see,&quot;  she  said,  as  though  they  had  beenhaving  a  long  conversa-  tion,  &quot;there  wouldn't  be  much  point.&quot;  They  rounded  a  corner  and  stopped  in  the  avenue  to  look  at  the  ruins  of  a  small  amphitheatre.  &quot;'This  is  called  the  Greek  Theatre.&quot;  He  closed  his  book,  and  they  walkedon  between  two  lines  of  magnificent  cy-  presses.  &quot;I'm  sure  you  agree,&quot;  she  continued,  with  that  offhandedness,  he  thought,  so  uncharacteristic  of  her,  that  she  had  developed  in  these  last  few  days-like  a  parody  of  what  she  objected  to  in  his  own  manner.  As  if  to  irritate  him  even  further,  she  added,  &quot;on  the  whole,&quot;  as  they  paused  at  thetop  of  the  ave-  nue  before  one  extremity  of  a  colossal  wall.  Therewas  a  restaurant  to  their  right,  among  the  trees.  &quot;Shall  we  have  some-  thing  now,  or  later?&quot;  he  asked  her.  &quot;It's  so  hot,&quot;  she  said.  He  put  his  book  in  his  pocket,  and  they  went  into  the  caf\xc3\xa9  and  stood  at  the  bar.  'The  boy  took  two  wet  glasses  from  the  draining  board  and  filled  them  with  cranciata.  In  the  garden  at  the  back,  a  girl  was  clearing  the  deserted  lunch  tables.  Her  stiff,  short  skirt  spread  out  around  her  and  exposed  the  backs  of  herkneeseach  time  she  bent  over  to  collect  another  dish.  She  took,  in  her  high-heeled  sandals,  such  tiny,  tapping  steps  that  it  seemed  she  would  never  complete  the  journey  from  one  table  to  the  next.  Now  and  then  she  glanced  at  the  boy  in  the  bar,  and  whenever  she  looked  up  he  was  watching  her.  &quot;On  the  whole&quot;  indeed,  the  man  thought  angrily  as  they  left  the  caf\xc3\xa9  and  passed  through  a  gap  in  the  great  wall  into  an  open  field  of  ruins.  &quot;I'm  not  quite  sure  what  we're  talking  about,&quot;  he  toldher,  although  nothing  more  had  been  said.  &quot;Simply  that  it  wouldn't  work.&quot;  She  stood  still  to  gaze  at  a  sheet  of  water,  a  long,  shallow  pond  in  which  a  few  lilies  were  trailing.  &quot;We  would  make  one  another  unhappy-we  do  already--  and  it's  as  well  that  we  found  out  in  time.  That's  all.  It's  quite  impossi-  ble.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  understand,&quot;  he  said  stub-  bornly.  &quot;And  that,&quot;  she  returned,  &quot;Gs  pre-  cisely  why.&quot;  I  must  have  hurther  vanity,  he  de-  cided,  since  she  was  not  usually  cruel.  Opinionated,  sulky  sometimes-but  even  that  she  couldn't  sustain;  she  would  give  in  at  the  first  appeal.  (Preferring  consistency,  he  could  not  value  such  concessions.)  If  he  were  to  say  now,  a  " b"for  example,  whatever  it  might  be  she  wantedhim  to  say-that  nothing  mattered  to  him  but  their  love  for  each  other,  something  along  those  lines-she  would  come  round.  Though  why  she  should  need  that,  why  she  minded  so,  he  couldn't  imagine.  She  herself,  after  all,  had  other  things  in  her  life,  had,  in  fact,  loved  be-  fore  this,  more  intensely;  he  didn't  know  who  it  was-and  had  not  the  least  desire  to  know,  he  told  himself,  his  mind  ranging  hastily  over  the  circle  of  their  friends.  &quot;I  don't  really  think  you  care  deeply  about  anything,&quot;  she  was  say-  ing  now,  as  though  the  observation  might  be  of  passing  interest.  &quot;Ex-  cept,  of  course,  your  work.&quot;  He  reflected  that  she  was  probably  the  only  person  he  knew  who  didn't  attach  importance  to  his  work.  And  it  was  important;  something  would  be  changed  in  the  field,  however  impercep-  tibly,  when  his  book  came  out.  She,  who  knew  nothing,  nothing  at  all,  and  was  always  exalting  her  miserable  in-  tuitions  into  the  sphere  of  knowledge-  how  dare  she  speak  of  his  interest  in  his  work  as  though  it  were  something  pedestrian,  discreditable?  She  had  no  feeling  for  the  elements,  the  composition  of  things.  Once,  for  instance,  in  Rome,  they  had  seen  an  ancient  inscription  on  a  wall,  and  he  had  begun  to  translate  it  aloud  when  she,  brushing  aside  the  syn-  tax,  rendered  the  sense  of  it  in  half  a  dozen  words  and  turned  away,  having  temporarily  deprived  him  of  his  reason  for  living.  &quot;Perhaps  it's  true  that  I  care  most  about  my  work,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  then  I  do  care-about  other  things.  In  any  case,  I  can't  be  what  I'm  not.&quot;  They  were  walking  now  on  a  path  of  small  stones.  She  persisted,  relentlessly,  &quot;You  gave  a  different  impression  when  we  first  knew  each  other.&quot;  He  halted,  opening  his  hands  help-  lessly.  &quot;Well-that  was  human.&quot;  This,  unexpectedly,  seemed  to  be  an  acceptable  answer,  and  they  turned  off  the  path  into  a  vast  shell  of  red  Roman  brick,  and  entered  an  inner  courtyard.  Water  was  seeping  over  the  ruined  pav-  ing  and  around  the  plinths  of  the  broken  columns  that  unevenly  supported  the  sky.  Releasing  his  arm,  in  which  her  own  had  remained,  she  made  her  way  across  the  drier  slabs  of  stone  to  a  pillar  and  seated  herself  in  its  shadow.  He  followed  her,  reopening  his  guide-  book.  &quot;This  must  be  Hadrian's  re-  treat-the  Maritime  Theatre,&quot;  he  said.  He  sat  down  on  the  base  of  the  column,  and  theyheld  the  book  between  them.  We  love  to  indulge  in  the  generally  entertained  tradition,  and  fancy  the  Em-  peror  Hadrian  in  his  moments  of  spleen  and  misanthropy  slipping  off  by  himself  and  recover  his  spirits  from  the  grievous  weight  of  the  care  ofthe  empire.  ...  She  took  off  one  of  her  sandals  and  inspected  a  blister  on  her  foot.  Pulling  the  strap  back  overher  heel,  she  glanced  at  the  young  man,  who  was  reading  carefully.  To  him,  she  thought,  life  was  a  series  of  details-a  mosaic  rather  than,  say,  a  painting.  He  had  to  have  reasons  for  everything,  even  ifit  meant  contort,  ing  human  nature  to  make  it  fit  into  and  H  doubt,  it  was  the  right  thing.  It  was  the  way  men's  minds  worked,  she  supposed;  the  process,  in  fact,  by  which  the  world  was  provided  with  machines  and  roads  and  bridges-and  ruins.  But  they  chose  to  forget  that  their  whole  system  of  logic  could  be  overturned  by  the  gesture  of  a  woman  or  a  child,  or  by  a  single  line  of  poetry.  This  business  of  reasoning,  she  reflected,  was  all  very  well,  within  reason,  but  if  one  had  nothing  to  be  passionate  about  one  might  as  wellbe  dead.  &quot;*.  ..  from  the  grievous  weight  of  the  care  of  the  empire,&quot;  she  read  again.  They  were,  very  slightly,  leaning  on  each  other.  &quot;Und  her,  meine  Damen  und  Her-  ren,  war  die  Zufluchtsstitte  des  Ka-  sers,&quot;  said  avoice  behind  them.  There  were  about  a  dozen  in  the  group,  all  with  reddened  faces  under  their  new  straw  hats,  all  with  woollen  socks  under  their  new  sandals,  all,  she  noticed,  with  cameras  and  guidebooks.  They  assembled  inside  the  arch,  and  made  notes  as  the  guide  pointed  and  ex-  plained.  &quot;Man  nennt  es  das  W  asser-  theater.  ...&quot;  The  two  by  the  column  sat  in  silence  " b"until  the  group  withdrew.  Then  she  clasped  her  hands  around  her  knees,  turning  to  him.  &quot;It's  just  that  you  do  seem  to  take  yourself  rather  seriously,&quot;  she  said.  He  considered  this.  &quot;Well  ...  in  the  end,  I  suppose,  onemust.&quot;  &quot;Exactly.  So  why  begin  that  way?&quot;  But  this  she  said  almost  as  an  entreaty,  adding,  &quot;Anyway,  you  know,  you're  so  much  better  than  I.&quot;  &quot;In  what  way,  for  God's  sake?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know.  Accurate,  re-  liablee-&quot;  &quot;It  sounds,&quot;  he  remarked,  &quot;like  an  advertisement  for  a  watch.&quot;  &quot;Et  ict  mous  voyons  ie  refuge  de  Pempereur,&quot;  a  new  voice  announced  from  the  entrance.  &quot;On  Paeppelle  le  Th\xc3\xa9atre  Maritime.&quot;  &quot;Shall  we  go?&quot;  he  asked.  Outside,  the  heat  was  rising  in  waves  from  the  plain.  'The  withered  country-  side  enclosing  them  again,the  man  and  woman  crossed  a  miniature  railway  that  had  been  laid  to  carry  masonry  to  and  from  the  works  of  excavation  and  restoration.  A  workman  with  a  paper  cone  on  his  head  was  crushing  stones  fora  new  path,  using  a  roller  improvised  from  the  broken  shaft  of  a  column.  They  passed  from  the  Large  Baths  into  the  Small  Baths,  and  walked  along  the  side  of  another  pool,  disturbing  the  sleep  of  two  or  three  dusty  swans.  'They  found  their  way  into  a  small  museum,  where  she  admired  a  [REDACTED].  (&quot;Her  sandals  arethe  same  as  yours,&quot;  he  said.)  Behind  the  museum,  a  grooved  track  took  them,  through  a  farm,  onto  a  wooded  incline.  It  was  cooler  on  the  slope.  Wild  flowers  were  growing  beneath  the  trees  and  across  the  path.  Walking  in  si-  lence,  they  could  hear  the  birds.  The  sounds  of  the  plain  came  to  them  more  remotely,  for  they  were  approaching  the  footof  the  mountain;  as  they  reached  the  first  ridge,  the  white  houses  and  shops  of  [REDACTED]  could  be  distin-  guished,  grouped  high  above  the  lines  of  olive  trees.  Pausing  on  the  ridge,  they  kissed-  for  some  unknown  reason,  as  she  told  herself,  still  clasped  in  his  arms.  She  could  see  over  his  shoulder  the  next  slope  rising,  and  the  next,  the  black  pines  lost  in  thicker  vegetation  or  swept  away  in  areas  of  cultivation.  Her  interest  in  the  scene  at  that  moment  struck  her  as  ludicrous,  and  she  wondered  if  he,  in  his  turn,  might  be  studying  the  country-  side  behind  her  head.  She  drew  back,  buthe  kept  her  hand  tightly  in  his,  although  the  path  was  too  narrow  for  them  both.  They  were  standing  quite  still,  side  by  side.  They  might  almost,  she  thought,  have  been  defending  one  another  from  two  different  people.  &quot;We  must  go  back,&quot;  he  said.  HERE  was  a  washroom  near  the  caf\xc3\xa9,  and  she  combed  her  hair  in  front  ofa  scrap  of  mirror  and  attended  to  the  sunburn  on  her  face  while  he  selected  a  table  in  the  garden.  An  elder-  ly  woman  in  a  floral  apron  brought  her  a  can  of  cold  water,  and  she  washed  her  feet,  sitting  on  a  white  wooden  chair  borrowed  from  the  restaurant.  When  she  took  off  her  sandals,  the  woman  carried  them  out  and  brushed  them  in  the  garden,  and  stood  watching  her  while  she  put  them  on  again.  &quot;Your  husband?&quot;  the  woman  asked,  smiling  and  nodding  toward  the  res-  taurant.  ''Yes,&quot;  she  said,  because  it  seemed  simpler.  They  had  a  table  in  the  shade.  The  waitress,  moving  slowly  across  the  gar-  den,  arrived  at  last  beside  them  and  set  down  their  drinks  on  the  cloth.  There  was  a  different  boy  in  the  bar.  &quot;When  I  ordered,&quot;  the  man  said,  &quot;she  asked  me  if  we  were  married.&quot;  &quot;What  did  you  tell  her?&quot;  He  looked  surprised,  &quot;Why-that  we  weren't,  naturally.&quot;  Even  under  the  trees,  the  heat  was  intense.  She  lifted  her  hands  from  the  table  and  closed  them  around  the  cold  glass.  &quot;There's  a  bus  in  half  an  hour,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  should  just  do  it.  We  may  even  see  it  coming  down  from  [REDACTED].&quot;  He  thought  she  seemed  tired,  but  then  they  had  been  walking  all  afternoon.  And  they  hadn't  decided  anything-al-  though  at  one  point,  he  remembered,  she  had  told  him  that  it  was  impossible.  She  was  looking  at  him,  and  fora  mo-  ment  he  thought  he  would  be  able  to  tell  her  that  nothing  else  mattered  (or  whatever  it  was).  But  they  hadwalked  too  far;  his  head  ached  slightly  from  the  sun.  And  now  she  had  turned  aside. "