 b"JUST  before  in  depen  de  nce  came  to  J  the  Belgian  [REDACTED],  my  husband  and  I  went  up  the  [REDACTED]  River  from  L\xc3\xa9opoldville  to  Stanleyville  on  our  way  to  attend  a  conference  on  tropic  al  medicine.  Ships  always  assemble  the  same  cast,  and  the  one  on  which  we  travelled  was  no  exception.  The  passen-  gers  were  not  the  ones  you  would  meet  on  th  e  Queen  Mary,  of  course,  or  on  any  of  those  liners  described  as  floating  hotels  that  take  tourists  to  places  where  they  never  stay  long  enough  to  see  the  bad  season  come.  But,  as  if  supplied  by  some  theatrical  agency  unmindful  of  a  change  of  style  in  the  roles  now  avail-  able  in  the  world,  these  passeng  ers  setting  off  up  the  [REDACTED]  were  those  you  might  have  met  at  any  time  in  the  l  ong  colonial  era,  travelling  between  the  country  in  Europe  where  t  hey  were  born  and  the  country  across  the  sea  where  their  flag  als  o  flew.  Most  of  them  were  Belgians,  who  con  versed  in  French  or  Flemish.  There  was  the  old  hand  who  trapped  my  husband  by  the  h  our;  released  at  l  ast,  he  would  come  to  me  deeply  under  the  man's  deadly  fascination.  &quot;T  'wen-  ty-two  years  prospecting  for  minerals  for  th  e  government  .  ..  torpedoed  go-  ing  back  to  [REDACTED]  in  the  war  .  .  .  Free  French  ...  two  and  a  half  years  in  a  Russian  prison  camp  .  .  .  still  carries  his  card  signed  by  de  Gaulle.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I  know,  I  know,&quot;  I  said  im-  patiently.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  see  it.&quot;  But  when  the  old  hand  interrupted  his  evening  stroll  round  the  deck  to  sit  down  where  we  sat,  outside  our  cabin,  no  measure  of  aloofness,  of  bending  my  head  to  my  book,  would  prevent  him  from  capturing  my  eye  at  some  po  int  and  growling,  with  a  pally  wink,  &quot;Two  more  years  and  I  sit  and  drink  beer  and  look  at  the  girls  in  [REDACTED].  Best  beer,  best  girls  in  the  world.&quot;  When  he  saw  us  leaning  together  over  the  rail,  but  lost  from  each  other  and  ourselves  in  the  sight  of  the  towering,  indifferent  fecundity  of  the  wilderness  that  the  river  cleaved  from  height  to  depth,  he  would  pause,  hang  about,  and  then  thrust  the  observation  between  our  heads:  &quot;Lot  of  bloomin'  nothing,  eh?  Country  full  of  nothing.  Bush,  bush,  trees,  trees.  Put  you  two  metres  in  there  and  you  won't  come  out  never.&quot;  His  mind  ran  down  toward  some  constant,  smug,  yet  uncertain  vision  of  his  retire-  ment  that  must  have  been  with  him  all  the  twenty-two  years.  &quot;Bush,  nothing.&quot;  There  were  sanitary  officers,  a  police  officer,  a  motor  mechanic,  agricultural  officers,  and  research  workers,  return-  ing  with  their  wives  and  children  from  home  leave  in  [REDACTED].  The  women  looked  as  if  they  were  c  arved  out  of  lard,  and  were  in  the  various  stages  of  repro-  duction-about  to  give  birth,  or  looking  after  small  fat  children  who  appeared  to  be  in  danger  of  melting.  There  was  a  priest  who  sat  among  the  women  in  the  row  of  deck  chairs  all  day,  reading  paperbacks.  He  was  a  big,  elderly  man  with  a  forward-thrusting,  int  elligent  jaw,  and  when  he  stood  up  slowly  and  leaned  upon  the  rail,  his  hard  belly  lift-  ing  his  cassock  gave  him  a  sudden  odd  affini  ty  with  the  women  around  him.  There  was  a  newly  married  couple,  of  cou  rse,  with  that  look  of  a  pair  tied  up  for  a  three-legged  race  who  haven't  mastered  the  gait  yet.  The  husband  was  ordinary  enough,  but  the  girl  was  unex-  pect  ed  among  the  browsing  herd  setting  to  over  the  f  irst  meal  aboard.  She  re-  minded  me  of  a  modern  painter's  por-  tr  ait  of  a  girl-a  semi-abstract  in  the  flesh.  She  was  very  tall,  the  same  size  as  her  husband,  a  nd  her  long,  thin  naked  legs  in  shorts  showed  a  tense  ten-  d  on,  fleshless,  on  each  inner  th  igh  as  she  walked.  On  the  extreme  thinness  and  elongation  of  her  body-  half  pathetic,  half  elegant-was  balanced  a  very  wide,  square  jaw.  In  profile  the  face  was  pret-  ty;  full  on,  the  extraordi-  n  ary  width  of  her  blem  -  ished  forehead,  her  thick  black  eyebrows  above  gray  eyes,  her  very  big,  straight  mouth  with  pale  lips,  were  a  distortion  of  unusual  beauty.  Her  style  could  have  been  Vogue  model  or  beatnik.  In  fact,  she  was  a  Belgian  country  girl  who  had  hit,  by  an  accident  of  physique  and  a  natural  coarseness,  upon  what  I  could  see  only  as  a  statement  of  artifice.  The  w  hite  boat,  broad  and  tiered  and  top-heavy  upon  the  w  ater  exactly  like  a  Mis  sissipp  i  paddle  steamer,  had  powerful  diesel  engines  beating  in  her  flat  bottom,  and  we  pushed  t  wo  barges  covered  with  motorcars,  jeeps,  and  tanks  of  beer,  and  a  native  passenger  boat,  painted  drab  but  s  oon  fluttering  with  the  flags  of  the  third  class's  wash-  ing.  There  was  a  lot  of  life  going  on  ahead  there  in  the  native  boat;  from  the  deck  in  front  of  our  cabin  we  could  look  down  the  length  of  the  two  barges  and  see  it-barbering,  cooking,  and  a  con-  tinual  swarming  and  clambering  from  deck  to  deck  that  often  overflowed  onto the  barges.  Jars  of  palm  wine  passed  be-  tween  our  galley  and  crew's  quarters,  and  their  galley.  A  tin  basin  full  of  manioc  spinach  appeared  at  intervals  from  the  lower  depths  of  our  ship,  mov-  ing  along  in  the  air,  and  then  we  saw  the  straight,  easygoing  body  of  the  black  girl  on  whose  turban  it  was  balance  d.  She  went,  with  the  languor  char  acteris  -  tic  of  attractive  kitchen  maids,  along  the  street  of  the  barges,  winding  easily  be-  tween  the  tethered  cars,  stopping  to  dis-  parage  a  basket  of  dried  fish  that  had  just  been  dumped  aboard  from  a  visit-  ing  canoe,  or  to  parry  some  flatterin  g  and  insulting  suggest  ion  fro  m  a  mem-  ber  of  the  crew  loungin  g  off  duty,  and  fin  ally  disappeared  into  the  boat  at  the  other  end.  The  fir  st  morning,  the  police  officer's  wife  noticed  a  scribble  chalked  on  the  barge  below  us.  &quot;My  God,  take  a  look  at  that,  will  you!&quot;  It  did  not  consi  st,  as  public  messages  usually  do,  of  curses  or  declarations  of  love,  but  hailed,  in  misspelled  Frenchand  the  uneven  script  of  some  loiterer  in  L\xc3\xa9opoldville  harbor,  the  coming  of  the  country's  in-  dependence,  only  two  months  away.  &quot;They  are  mad,  truly,&quot;  the  police  offi-  cer's  wife  said.  &quot;They  think  they  can  run  a  country.&quot;  She  was  a  gay  one,  heavily  made  up,  with  a  small  waist  and  wide  jelly  hips  in  bright  skirts,  and  she  had  the  k  ind  of  roving  alertness  that  put  her  on  chatting  terms  with  the  whole  boat  within  twenty-four  hours.  In  case  I  had  missed  the  point,  she  turned  to  me  and  said  in  English,  &quot;They  are  just  like  monkeys,  you  know.  We've  taught  them  a  few  tricks.  Really,  they  are  monkeys  out  from  there.&quot;  And  she  gestured  at  the  forest  that  was  always  there  before  us,  night  and  day,  while  we  looked  and  while  we  slept.  She  kept  protesting,  with  her  h  igh  laugh,  that  she  was  going  to  send  her  small  boy  down  to  rub  out  the  chalk,  but  her  husband-  who  had  the  only  red  face  on  board,  and  a  permanent  mark  around  his  cropped  head  where  his  officer's  cap  rested  in  sweat-was  hailing  a  boy  to  bring  beer,  and  she  sat  down,  instead,  for  the  usual  lively  half  hour  before  lunch,  when  she  and  her  husband  and  their  friends  &quot;went  off  in  fits&quot;  at  an  exchange  of  Flemish  jokes.  Our  passengers  were  all  white,  not  because  of  a  color  bar  but  because  even  those  black  people  who  could  afford  the  first  class  thought  it  too  expensive.  Yet,     " b"  except  for  the  Belgian  captain,  who  never  came  down  from  his  quarters  on  thetop  deck,  the  entire  crew  was  black,  and  we  were  kept  fed  and  clean  by  a  small  band  of  44656d6f6372617469632052657075626c6963206f662074686520436f6e676flese  men.  They  managed  this  with  an  extraordinary,  almost  mysterious  ease.  'There  were  only  three  stewards  and  a  barman,  and  often,  five  minutes  before  the  bell  rang  for  a  meal,  I  would  see  them  sitting  on  their  haunches  on  the  barge  below  us,  barefoot  and  in  dirty  shorts,  murmur-  ing  their  perpetual  tide  of  gossip.  But  however  promptly  you  presented  your-  self  at  table,  they  were  there  before  you,  in  mildewed  white  cotton  suits  and  for-  age  caps  decorated  with  the  shipping  company's  badge.  Only  their  bare  feet  provided  a  link  with  the  idlers  of  a  few  minutes  before.  'The  idlers  never  looked  up  and  did  not  notice  a  greeting  from  the  decks  above  them,  but  the  stewards  were  grinning  and  persuasive,  pressing  food  upon  you,  running  to  get  your  wine  with  a  happy,  speedy  slither  that  implied  a  joking  reference  to  your  thirst.  When  we  stopped  at  river  sta-  tions  and  the  great  refrigerated  hold  was  opened,  we  recognized  the  same  three  stewards,  grunting  as  they  tossed  the  weight  ofhalf  a  frozen  ox  from  hand  to  hand.  George  was  the  one  who  waited  on  us  and  even  took  it  upon  him-  self  to  wake  us  up  in  time  for  breakfast,  pounding  on  our  cabin  door  and  calling  \xc2\xab&quot;Chop-chop!,&quot;  and  one  evening  I  re-  marked  to  him,  &quot;You  were  working  hard  this  afternoon,  eh?&quot;  He  looked  at  me  blankly.  &quot;Madam?&quot;  'Yes,  unloading.  I  saw  you  unload-  ing  meat.&quot;  &quot;It  wasn't  me,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Not  you,  in  the  green  shirt?&quot;  He  shook  his  head  vehemently.  It  appeared  that  I  had  insulted  him  by  the  suggestion.  And  yet  it  had  been  he,  all  right-his  gruff  laugh  and  small  mustache  and  splayed  toes.  How  could  I  argue  with  him?  Wasn't  it  a  known  fact  that  to  white  people  all  black  faces  look  alike?  In  the  evenings,  the  priest  put  on     gray  flannel  trousers  and  smoked  a  large  cigar;  you  would  have  said  then  that  he  was  a  big  businessman,  successful  and  yet  retaining  some  residue  of  sensitivity  in  the  form  of  sadness.  My  husband  found  out  that  he  was  in  fact  the  finan-  cial  administrator  of  a  remote  and  very  large  complex  of  mission  schools.  I  was  often  aware  of  him,  without  actually  seeing  him,  when  I  was  in  our  cabin  at  night;  he  liked  to  stand  alone  on  the  deserted  bend  of  the  deck  outside.  The  honeymoon  couple  (as  we  thought  of  the  newly  married  pair,  although  their  honeymoon  was  over  and  he  was  tak-  ing  her  to  the  inland  administrative  post  where  he  worked)  formed  the  habit  of  coming  there,  too,  during  the  hot  hours  when  everyone  was  resting  after  lunch.  He,  with  his  fair,  curly  hair  and  rather  snouty,  good-looking  face,  would  stand  looking  out  at  the  leap  and  glitter  of  the  water,  but  she  could  see  nothing  but  him-it  was  as  if  he  were  blown  up  to  fill  the  screen  of  her  vision,  and  in  this  exaggerated  projection  every  detail,     " b"every  hair  and  pore,  held  her  attention  like  the  features  ofa  landscape.  Fasci-  nated,  she  concentrated  on  squeezing  blackheads  from  his  chin.I  used  to  come  noisily  out  of  the  cabin,  hoping  to  drive  this  idyll  away.  But  they  were  not  aware  of  me;  she  was  not  aware  of  the  presence  of  another  woman,  who  recog-  nized  the  ugliness  of  some  intimacies  when  seen,  as  they  never  should  be,  by  a  spectator,  &quot;Why  must  they  choose  our  deck?&quot;  I  said  to  my  husband.  He  was  amused,  &quot;Come  on,  what's  the  matter  with  love?&quot;  He  lay  on  his  bed  grinning.  The  thing  was  that  I  could  not  help  expecting  something  of  that  face-the  girl's  face.  It  disappointed  me  to  see  that  face  surfeited  with  the  simplest  relation-  ship  with  a  commonplace  man,  like  a  baby's  face  bleary  with  milk.  I  was  re-  luctant  to  admit  that  her  intensity  at  the  dinner  table  was  merely  a  ruthless  desire  to  get  the  choice  bits  of  every  course  shovelled  onto  his  plate.  I  felt  irritated  when  I  came  upon  her  sitting  placidly  stitching  the  torn  ribbon  of  a  vulgar  frilly  petticoat  made  of  rain-  bow-colored  net.  It  was  simply  arare  face,  that  was  all,  clapped  on  the  same  old  bundle  of  well-  conformed  instincts  and  the  same  few  feelings;  my  twinges  of  disappoint-  ment  were  nothing  more  than  part  of  that  mild  preoccupation  with  a  col-  lection  of  lives  you  will  never  touch  upon  again  that  makes  a  voyage  so  restful.  UR  first  stop  was  in  the  middle  of  the  second  night,  and  next  morning  we  woke  up  to  find  the  ivory  sellers  aboard.  They  came  from  the  forest,  and  the  ex-  pressions  on  their  faces  were  made  difficult  to  read  by  distracting  pat-  terns  of  tattooing,  but  they  wore  white  cotton  vests  from  a  trading  store.  Out  of  cardboard  suitcases  of  the  kind  schoolchildren  use,  they  spread  ivory  toothpicks,  paper  knives,  and  brace-  lets  on  the  narrow  deck,  and  squatted  among  them.  Nearly  all  the  Bel-  gians  had  seen  this  tour-  ist  bric-a-brac  many  times  before,  but  they  gathered  around,  asking  prices  challengingly  and  then  putting  the  stuff  down  and  walking  away.  A  few  women,  sheepish  about  it,  bought  bracelets,  and  shook  them  on  their  wrists,  as  if  decid-  ing  they  were  not  so  bad  after  all.  The  old  prospector  told  my  husband  and  me  an  elephant-hunting  story.  One  of  the  agricultural  officers,  whose  child,  learn-  ing  to  walk,  hampered  his  father's  left  leg  like  a  shackle,  said,  &quot;Have  you  locked  your  door?  You  want  to  while  these  fel-  lows  are  about.  They'll  take  anything.&quot;  The  vender  who  stationed  himself  outside  our  cabin  didn't  take  anything,  but  I  don't  think  he  sold  anything,  either.  Just  before  lunchtime,  he  packed  his  cardboard  case  again  and  went  off  down  to  the  public  thorough-  fare  of  the  barges,  where  a  pirogue  was  tied,  trailing  alongside  in  the  water  like  a  narrow  floating  leaf.  He  did  not  seem  downcast,  but  then,  as  I  have  remarked,   it  was  difficult  to  tell,  with  those  rows  of  nicks  running  in  curved  lines  across  his  forehead,  and  the  sharp  cuts  tighten-  ing  the  skin  under  the  eyes.  People  brought  all  sorts  of  things  aboard  to  sell,  and  they  were  all  sorts  of  people,  too,  for  we  were  following  the  river  a  thousand  miles,  through  the  homes  of  many  tribes.  Sometimes  old  hags  with  breasts  like  bellpulls,  or  children  with  dusty  bellies,  sprang  up  on  the  dark  riverbank  and  yelled  &quot;'depenDANCE!&quot;  Young  men  and  girls  would  swim  out  ahead  of  our  con-  voy  and  drift  past  us  with  darting,  up-  lifted  eyes,  begging  for  jam  tins  from  the  galley.  Those  menwho  managed  to  scramble  aboard,  dressed  in  their  sleek  wet  blackness,  hid  their  nakedness  with  exactly  that  instinct  that  must  have  come  to  Adam  when  he  was  cast  out  of  the  Garden,  and  that  put  them,  al-  though  they  lived  alone  in  the  forest  among  the  wild  creatures,  forever  apart  from  the  animal  life  they  shared.  The  pirogues  came  bringing  live  turtles,  fish,  the  smoked  meat  of  hippo-  potamus  and  crocodile,  and  wine  made  from  ba-  nanas,  palm  nuts,  or  sor-  ghum.  The  venders  did  a  good  trade  with  our  crew  and  the  passengers  down  at  the  native  boat;  the  laughter,  the  exclamations,  and  the  argument  of  bar-  gaining  were  with  us  all  day,  heard  butnot  under-  stood,  like  voices  in  the  next  room.  At  stopping  places,  the  people  who  were  nourished  on  these  ingredients  poured  ashore  across  the  single  plank  flung  down  for  them,  looking  very  human  in  contour,  the  flesh  of  the  children  sweet,  the  men  and  women  strong  and  sometimes  handsome.  We,  thank  God,  were  fed  on  veal  and  ham  and  [REDACTED]  sprouts,  brought  frozen  from  Europe.  When  our  convoy  put  off  some  contribution  to  the  shore  instead  of  taking  on  its  fruits,  the  object  was  usually  something  out-  landish  and  bulky.  A  product  of  heavy  industry,  some  chunk  of  machinery  ora  road-making  tractor,  set  down  in  a  country  that  has  not  been  industrial-  " b"ized,  looks  as  strange  as  a  spaceship  from  [REDACTED].  The  settlement  would  consist  of  a  strip  of  landing  stage,  with  a  tin  shed,  a  hut  or  two-not  quite  native  and  not  quite  a  white  man's  house-a  row  of  empty  oil  drums,  and  a  crane  standing  like  some  monster  water  bird  on  three  legs  above  the  water.  The  crane  came  into  action  with  the  rattle  of  chains  play-  ing  out,  and  there,  hanging  in  the  air,  ready  to  land  where  its  like  had  never  been  seen,  where  there  were  no  forms  that  approximated  it  in  the  least,  were  the  immense  steel  angles  of  something  gleaming  withgray  paint  and  intricate  with  dials.  Cars  and  jeeps  went  ashore  this  way,  too,  dangling,  but  they  seemed  more  agile,  adaptable,  and  accepted,  and  no  sooner  were  they  ashore  than  some  missionary  or  trader  jumped  in  and  they  went  scrambling  away  up  the  bank  and  disappeared.  We  stopped,  one  day,  long  enough  for  us  to  be  able  to  go  ashore  and  wan-  der  round  a  bit.  It  was  quite  a  place-  white  provincial  offices  in  a  garden  with  marigolds,  on  a  newly  cleared  space  of  raw  red  earth,  a  glass-and-steel  hos-  pital  in  the  latest  contemporary  architec-  ture,  an  avenue  of  old  palms  along  the  waterfront  leading  to  a  weathered  red  brick  cathedral.  When  the  taxi  we  had  hired  drove  a  mile  out  along  the  single  road  that  led  away  into  the  for-  est,  all  this  was  lost  and  secret,  hidden  by  the  forest  as  if  it  had  already  be-  come  one  of  those  ancient  lost  cities  that  are  sometimes  found  in  a  rich  humus  grave,  dead  under  the  rotting  green,  teeming  culture  of  life.  Another  day,  we  stopped  only  long  enough  for  us  to  go  ashore  for  a  moment,  within  sight  of  the  boat.  'There  was  nothing  much  to  see;  it  was  hardly  a  village.  It  was  Sunday,  and  a  few  Portuguese  trad-  ers  and  their  fat  wives  in  flowered  dresses  were  sitting  on  the  veranda  of  a  house,  drinking  lemonade;  opposite,  a  tin  store  sold  sewingmachines  and  cigarettes.  A  crumbling  white  fort,  streaked  with  livid  moss  and  being  pushed  apart  by  the  swelling  roots  of  trees,  remained  from  the  days,  eighty  years  before,  when  the  Arab  slave  trad-  ers  built  it.  The  native  village  that  they  had  raided  and  burned  had  left  no  trace,  except,  perhaps,  the  beginning  of  the  line  of  continuity  that  leads  men  always  to  build  where  others,  enemies  or  vanished,  have  lived  before  them.  OMEONE  came  aboard  at  this  brief  stopping  place.  At  dinner  that  evening,  we  found  on  our  tables  slips  of  paper  with  a  typewritten  announce,  ment,.  There  was  to  be  an  entertainment  at  eight  o'clock  in  the  bar-gentlemen:  eighty  francs;  ladies:  seventy  francs.  There  was  a  stir  of  amusement  in  the  dining  room.  I  thought,  for  a  moment,  of  a  donkey  derby  or  bingo  game.  My  husband  said  at  the  same  moment,  &quot;A  choir,  I'll  bet.  Girls  who'll  stand  in  a  row  and  sing  mission-school  hymns.  They  must  have  been  practicing  down  at  the  other  boat.&quot;  &quot;What's  this?&quot;  I  asked  George.  &quot;You  will  like  it,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Butwhat  is  it-a  show,  or  what?&quot;  &quot;Very  good,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;You  will  see.  A  man  who  does  things  you  have  never  seen.  Very  clever.&quot;  When  we  had  finished  eating  the  sweet  course,  he  came  skidding  back  to  hit  at  our  swiftly  cleared  table  with  a  napkin,  scattering  crumbs.  &quot;You  are  coming  in  the  bar?&quot;  he  said,  making  sure.  It  was  a  kindly  but  firm  com-  mand.  We  began  to  have  that  obscure  anxiousness  to  see  the  thing  a  success  that  descends  upon  one  at  school  con-  certs  and  amateur  theatricals.  Oh,  yes,  we  were  coming,  all  right.  We  usually  took  coffee  on  the  deck,  but  this  time  we  carried  our  cups  straightinto  the  lounge,  where  the  bar  comfortably  oc-  cupied  one  wall  and  the  fans  in  the  low,  panelled  ceiling  did  not  dispel  the  trapped  heat  of  the  day,  but  only  blew  down  a  perpetual  emanation  of  radio  music  from  loudspeakers  set  in  grilles  overhead.  We  were  almost  the  first  there;  we  thought  we  might  as  well  take  good  seats  at  one  of  the  tables  right  in  front  of  the  space  that  had  been  cleared  before  the  bar.  The  senior  administrator  and  his  daughter,  who  sat  in  the  bar  every  night  playing  tricktrack,  got  up  and  went  out.  There  were  not  more  than  five  or  six  others.  By  half  past  eight  there  were  perhaps  fifteen  of  us,  includ-  ing  the  honeymoon  couple,  who  had  looked  in  several  times,  grinning  vague-  ly,  and  at  last  decided  to  come.  &quot;W  hat  a  lot  of  mean  bastards,  eh?&quot;  said  my  husband  admiringly.  It  did  seem  a  sur-  prising  restraint  that  could  resist  an  un-  specified  local  entertainment  offered  in  the  middle  of  a  week-long  green  no-  where.  The  barman,  a  handsomeyoung  Bacongo  from  L\xc3\xa9opoldville,  leaned  an  elbow  on  the  counter  and  stared  at  us.  George  came  in  from  the  dining  room  and  bent  his  head  totalk  closely  to  him;  he  remained  hunched  against  the  count-  er,  smiling  at  the  room  with  a  reassur-  ing,  confident  smile.  At  last,  the  entertainment  began.  It  was,  of  course,  a  magician,  as  we  had  understood  from  George  it  must  be.  The  man  walked  in  suddenly  from  the  deck-perhaps  he  had  been  waiting  there  behind  the  stacked  deck  chairsfor  the  right  moment.  He  wore  a  white  shirt  and  gray  trousers,  and  carried  an  attach\xc3\xa9  case.  He  had  an  assistant  with  him,  a  very  black,  dreamy,  squat  chap,  picked  up  for  a  few  francs  as  a  vol-  unteer,  most  likely,  from  among  the  passengers  down  on  the  native  boat.  He  spent  most  of  the  performance  sitting  astride  a  chair  with  his  chin  on  his  arms  on  the  high  back.  There  was  a  hesitant  spatter  of  clap-  ping  as  the  magician  came  in,  but  he  did  not  acknowledge  it,  and  it  quickly  died  out.  He  went  to  business  at  once.  Out  of  the  attach\xc3\xa9  case,  which  was  rather  untidily  filled,  came  bits  of  white  paper,  scissors,  a  bunch  of  paper  flowers,  and  strings  of  crumpled  flags.  His  first  trick  was  a  card  trick-an  old  one  that  most  of  us  had  seen  many  times  before  and     " b"one  or  two  of  us  could  have  done  ourselves.  There  were  a  few  gig-  gles,  and  only  one  per-  son  attempted  to  clap,  but  the  magician  had  already  gone  on  to  his  next  illusion,  which  in-  volved  the  string  of  pennants  and  a  hat.  Then  there  was  the  egg  that  emerged  from  his  ear.  Then  the  fifty-  franc  note  that  was  torn  up  before  our  eyes  and  made  whole  again-not  exactly  be-  fore  them,  but  almost.  Between  items  of  his  performance  there  was  an  interval  when  he  turned  his  back  protec-  tively  to  us  and  made  some  preparation,  with  his  hands  hidden  be-  neath  a  length  of  black  cloth  that  covered  the  small  table  on  which  his  things  were  assembled.  Once,  he  spoke  to  the  barman,  and  was  given  a  glass.  He  did  not  seem  to  be  aware  of  the  sig-  nificance  of  applause  when  he  got  it,  and  he  went  through  his  reve-  lations  without  a  word  of  patter,  even  without  the  abracadabra  or  &quot;Hey,  presto!&quot;  ges-  tures  without  which  it  is  impossible  to  imagine  a  magician  bringing  anything  off.  He  did  not  smile,  and  we  saw  his  small,  filed  white  teeth  in  his  smooth  black  face  only  when  his  upper  lip  lifted  in  concentration.  His  eyes,  though  they  met  ours  openly,  were  in-  ner-focussed.  He  went  through  what  was  clearly  his  entire  limit-  ed  repertoire-learned  God  knows  where  or  from  whom  (per-  haps  even  by  some  extraordinary  cor-  respondence  course)-without  mishap,  but  only  just.  When  he  crunched  up  the  glass  and  ate  it,  for  instance,  he  did  not  wear  the  look  of  eye-rolling  agony  that  is  this  trick's  professional  accompani-  ment  and  makes  even  the  most  skeptical  audience  hold  its  breath  in  sympathy-  he  looked  fearful  and  anxious,  his  face  twitching  like  the  face  of  someone   crawling  through  a  barbed-wire  fence.  After  half  an  hour,  he  turned  away  at  the  conclusion  of  a  trick  and  began  folding  up  the  string  of  flags,  and  we  assumed  that  there  would  now  be  an  in-  terval  before  the  second  part  of  the  per-  formance.  But  at  once  the  assistant  got  up  from  his  chair  and  came  round  the  room  with  a  plate  to  collect  the  fee,  pre-  ceded  by  George,  who  handed  out  all  over  again  the  slips  of  paper  that  we  had  found  onour  tables  at  dinner:  &quot;An  en-  tertainment,  8  [REDACTED],  in  the  bar.  Gentle-  men:  eighty  francs;  ladies:  seventy  francs.&quot;  The  performance  was  over.  The  audience,  which  had  felt  flat  any-  way,  now  felt  cheated.  One  of  the  Belgian  ladies,  smiling,  protested,  &quot;Sev-  enty  francs  for  this!&quot;  George  announced  proudly  to  each  table  that  tomorrow  morning  at  ten  there  would  be  a  repeat  performance-     " b"same  prices  for  adults,  thirty  francs  for  chil-  dren.  We  could  all  see  the  magician  again  then.  &quot;It's  too  much,  too  expensive,&quot;  one  of  the  Belgians  said  for  us  all.  &quot;You  can't  charge  eighty  francs  for  only  half  an  hour.  It's  only  just  after  nine  o'clock.  He  can't  charge  so  much  and  then  give  us  half  an  hour.  Is  this  all  he  knows?&quot;  There  were  mur-  murs  of  half-interested  assent;  some  people  were  inclined  to  go  off  to  bed  anyway.  The  objection  was  explained  to  George,  and  his  organizer's  pride  died  slowly,  won-  deringly.  Suddenly  he  waggled  a  re-  assuring  palm  of  the  hand;  it  would  be  all  right,  he  would  make  it  all  right,  and  his  idiotic  assurance,  based  on  nothing  that  we  could  see,  was  so  sweeping  that  everybody  handed  over  the  seventy  and  eighty  francs  doggedly.  Then  George  went  to  the  magician  and  began  to  talk  to  him  in  a  low,  fast,  serious  voice.  'There  was  a  tinge  of  scorn  and  exasperation  in  it,  but  wheth-  er  this  was  directed  toward  the  ma-  gician  or  toward  us  we  did  not  know,  because  none  ofus  understood  the  lan-  guage.  The  barman  leaned  over  to  hear,  and  the  assistant  stood  stolidly  in  the  little  huddle.  Only  two  members  ofthe  small  audi-  ence  had  gone  to  bed,  after  all.  The  rest  of  us  sat  there,  amused,  but  with  a  certain  thread  of  tension  livening  us  up.  It  was  clear  that  most  of  the  people  did  not  like  to  be  taken  in;  it  was  a  matter  they  prided  themselves  on-not  to  be  taken  in,  even  by  blacks,  whom  they  didn't  expect  to  have  the  same  standards  about  these  things  and  whom  they  thought  of  as  thievish  anyway.  Our  at-  titude-that  of  my  husband  and  my-  self-was  secretly  different,  though  the  difference  could  not  show  outwardly.  Tempted  though  we  were  to  treat  the  whole  evening  as  a  joke  and  a  rather  naive  extortion  of  a  hundred  and  fifty  francs  from  our  pockets,  we  had  the  priggish  feeling  that  it  was  perhaps  patronizing  and  a  kind  of  insult  to  make  special  allowances  for  these  people  sim-  ply  becausethey  were  black.  If  they  chose,  as  they  had,  to  enter  into  an  ac-  tivity  governed  by  European  values,  whether  it  was  conjuring  or  running  a  twentieth-century  state,  they  must  in  justice  be  expected  to  live  up  to  their     chosen  standards.  For  the  sake  of  the  magician  himself  and  our  relation  to  him  as  an  audience,  he  had  to  give  us  our  hundred  and  fifty  francs'  worth.  We  finished  our  glasses  of  beer  while  the  urgent  discussion  between  George,  the  barman,  and  the  magician  went  on.  The  magician  seemed  adamant.  Al-  most  before  George  had  begun  to  speak,  he  was  shaking  his  head,  and  he  did  not  stop  packing  away  the  stuff  of  his  illu-  sions-the  cards,  the  paper  flowers,  the  egg.  He  drew  his  lips  back  from  his  teeth  and  answered  in  the  hard  tone  of  flat  refusal,  again  and  again.  George  continued  totalk  on,  right  into  his  face,  and  there  were  interjections  from  the  barman.  The  magician  looked  round  the  room  unseeingly,  and  down  at  his  clothes  and  his  shoes.  He  asked  a  ques-  tion  of  George,  or  threw  it  at  him  as  an  unanswerable  challenge,  again  and  again.  But  George  and  the  barman  closed  in  on  him  verbally-a  stream  of  words  that  flowed  round  and  spilled  over  challenges.  Quite  suddenly,  the  magician  gave  in,  must  have  given  in,  but  with  what  sounded  like  a  disclaimer  of  all  responsibility,  a  warning.  George  turned  to  us  with  a  happy  grin.  He  bowed  and  threw  up  his  hands.  &quot;I  have  told  him  'too  short'  Now  he  makes  some  more  for  you.  Some  magic.&quot;  And  he  laughed,  lifting  his  eyebrows  and  inclining  his  head  so  that  his  white  forage  cap  nearly  fell  off,  im-  plying  that  the  whole  business  was  sim-  ply  a  miracle  to  him,  as  it  must  be  to  us.  The  magician  bowed,  too.  And  we  clapped  him;  it  was  sporting,  on  both  sides.  'The  newly  married  girl  rested  her  head  a  moment  on  the  snouty  young  man's  shoulder  and  yawned  in  his  ear.  Then  we  were  all  attention.  The  as-  sistant,  who  had  taken  the  opportunity  to  subside  into  his  chair  again,  was  summoned,  in  two  syllables,  by  the  magician.  Then  the  magician  made  a  brief,  final,  and  somehow  preparatory  gesture,  run-  ning  his  hand  along  inside  thewaist,  band  of  his  trousers,  tucking  in  his  shirt,  and  began  to  make  passes  with  his  hands  in  front  of  the  assistant's  face.  The  assistant  blinked,  like  a  sleepy  dog  worried  by  a  fly.  His  was  a  dense,  coaly  face,  bunched  toward  thefront  by  a  strong,  jutting  jaw,  puffy  lips,  and  a  broad  nose  with  a  single  tattoo  mark  like  a  line  of  ink  drawn  down  it.  He  had  long,  woolly  eyelashes,  and  they  seemed  to  sway  over  his  eyes.  'The  ma-  gician's  black  hands  were  thin,  and  the  yellow-pink  palms  looked  almost  trans-  lucent;  he  might  not  have  had  the  words,  but  he  had  the  gestures,  all  right,  and  his  hands  curled  like  serpents  and  fluttered  like  birds.  The  assistant  began  to  dance.  He  shuffled  away  from  the  magician,  the  length  of  the  bar,  neck  retracted  and  arms  bent  at  the  el-  bows  like  a  runner,  with  a  slither  and  hesitation  from  one  foot  to  the  other-  the  step  that  Africans  can  do  as  soon  as  they  learn  to  walk,  and  that  they  can  al-  ways  do,  drunk  or  sober,  even  when  they  are  so  old  that  they  can  scarcely  walk.  A  subdued  but  generous  laughter  went  up.  We  were  all  ready  to  give  the  magician  good-natured  encouragement,  now  that  he  was  trying.  'The  magician  continued  to  stand,  his  hands  fallen  now  at  his  sides,  his  slim  body  modest  and  relaxed,  hanging  from  his  shoulders  in  its  shabby  clean  shirt  and  too  big  gray  trousers.  He  kept  his  eyes  quietly  on  the  assistant,  and  the  man  turned  and  came  back  to  him,  singing  now  as  well  as  dancing,  and  ina  young  girl's  voice.  And  here  we  all  laughed  spontaneously.  As  a  hypnotist,  the  magician  had  the  sense  of  timing  that  he  lacked  so  con-  spicuously  when  performing  tricks,  and     " b"before  the  laughter  stopped  he  said  something  curtly  to  the  assistant,  and  the  man  went  over  to  the  bar  counter,  picked  up  an  empty  glass  jug  that  stood  there,  and  drank  it  off  in  deep,  gasping  gulps  as  if  he  had  been  wandering  for  days  in  a  desert.  He  was  returned  to  his  inanimate  self  by  one  movement  of  the  magician's  hands  before  his  face.  He  looked  at  us  all  without  surprise,  and  then,  although  finding  himself  the  focus  of  attention,  sat  down  in  his  chair  again  and  yawned.  &quot;Let's  see  what  he  can  do  with  someone  else-not  his  own  man!&quot;  one  of  the  Belgians  called  out  good-hu-  moredly,  signalling  for  the  barman  at  the  same  time.  &quot;Yes,  come  on,  someone  else.&quot;  &quot;Ask  him  to  try  someone  he  doesn't  know.&quot;  &quot;You  want  it,  yes?&quot;  George  said.  He  was  grinning.  He  pointed  a  finger  at  the  magician.  &quot;You,  George-let's  see  if  he  can  do  you!&quot;  &quot;No,  one  of  us.&quot;  A  shiny,  tubby-  faced  man  in  cocoa  research,  who  had  toward  the  blacks  the  chaffing,  half-  scornful  ease  of  one  of  those  who  knew  them  well,  swung  round  in  his  chair.  &quot;''That's  an  idea,  eh?  Let  him  have  a  go  at  one  of  us,  and  see  how  he  gets  on.&quot;  'Yes,  yes.&quot;  There  was  a  positive  chorus  of  rising  assent;  even  the  honey-  mooners  joined  in.  Someone  said,  &quot;But  what  about  the  language?  How  can  he  suggest  things  in  our  minds  if  we  don't  know  the  same  language?,&quot;  but  she  was  dismissed,  and  George  ex-  plained  in  one  sentence  to  the  magician  what  was  wanted.  He  made  no  protest.  In  a  swift  movement  he  walked  away  toward  the  bar  a  few  steps  and  then  turned  to  face  us,  at  bay.  I  noticed  that  his  nostrils     he  had  a  fine  nose-moved  in  and  out  once  or  twice  as  if  he  were  taking  slow,  deep  breaths.  We  were  waiting,  I  suppose,  for  him  to  call  one  of  us  out-one  of  the  men,  of  course.  The  cocoa  man  and  one  or  two  others  were  ready  for  some  rough  equivalent  of  the  familiar  &quot;Will  any  kind  gentleman  or  lady  please  step  up  onto  the  stage?&quot;  But,  oddly,  it  did  not  come.  Over  the  giggles  and  nudges  and  half  sentences,  an  expectancy  fell.  We  sat  looking  at  the  awkward  young  black  man  searching  slowly  along  our  faces,  and  we  did  not  know  when  the  performance  had  begun.  Fidgeting  died  down,  and  our  eyes  surrounded  him  closely.  He  was  as  still  as  any  prey  run  to  ground.  And  then  while  we  were  looking  at  him,  waiting  for  him  to  choose  one  of  us,  we  became  aware  of  a  sudden,  smooth  movement  in  our  ranks.  My  attention  was  distracted  to  the  right  and  I  saw  the  girl-the  honey-  moon  girl,  my  girl  with  the  face-get  up  with  a  little  exclamation,  a  faint,  wondering  &quot;ist!&quot;  of  remembering  something,  and  walk  calmly,  without  brushing  against  anything,  over  to  the  magician.  She  stood  directly  before  him,  quite  still,  her  tall,  rounded  shoulders  drooping  naturally.  Her  head,  which  was  raised  to  him,  almost  on  a  level  with  his  own,  was  thrust  forward  a  little.  He  did  not  move;  he  did  not  gaze;  his  eyes  blinked  quietly.  She  put  up  her  long  arms  and,  standing  just  their  length  from  him,  brought  her  hands  to  rest  on  his  shoulders.  Her  cropped  head  dropped  before  him  to  her  chest.  It  was  the  most  extraordinary  ges-  ture.  None  of  us  could  see  her  face;  there  was  nothing  but  the  gesture.  God  knows  where  it  came  could  not  have  put  it  into  her  will,  it  was  not  in  any  hypnotist's  repertoire,  and  she,  33  surely,  could  not  have  had  the  place  for  some-  thing  so  rare  in  her  fe-  male,  placidly  sensual  nature.  I  don't  think  I  have  ever  seen  such  a  gesture  before,  but  I  knew,  they  knew,  we  all  knew  what  it  meant.  It  was  nothing  to  do  with  what  exists  be-  tween  men  and  wom-  en.  She  had  never  made  such  a  gesture  to  her  husband  or  to  any  man.  She  had  never  stood  like  that  before  her  father-none  of  us  has.  How  can  I  explain?  One  of  the.  disciples  might  have  come  before  Christ  like  that.  There  was  the  peace  of  absolute  trust  in  it.  It  stirred  a  needle  of  fear  in  me-more  than  that;  for  a  mo-  ment,  I  was  horribly  afraid,  and  how  can  I  explain  that,  either?  For  the  ges-  ture  was  beautiful,  and  I  have  lived  in  Africa  all  my  life  and  I  know  my  own  people,  the  white  people.  'To  see  it  was  beautiful  would  make  them  dangerous.  The  husband  sat  hunched  back  in  his  chair  in  what  was  to  me  a  most  unex-  pected  reaction-his  fist  pushed  his  cheek  out  of  shape  and  he  was  frozenly  withdrawn,  like  a  parent  witnessing  a  suddenly  volunteered  performance  by  a  child  who,  as  far  as  he  knew,  had  neither  talent  nor  ambition.  But  the  cocoa  expert,  who  had  dealt  with  the  blacks  so  long,  acted  quickly,  and  jumped  up,  calling  authoritatively,  but  only  just  controlled,  &quot;Hey!  No,  no!  We  want  him  to  try  his  magic  with  the  men!  'Tell  him  not  the  ladies.  No,  no,  he  must  take  a  man.&quot;  The  room  was  released  as  if  it  had  struck  a  blow.  And  at  the  same  mo-  ment  the  magician,  who  had  not  had  time  to  hear  George  speak  sharply  to  him,  understood  and  passed  his  hand  across  the  lower  part  of  his  own  face  in  an  almost  servile  movement  that  bumped  the  arms  of  the  girl  without  deliberately  touching  her  and  released  her  instantly.  At  once  she  laughed  and  was  dazed,  and  as  her  husband  came  to  her  as  if  to  escort  an  invalid,  I  heard  her  saying  in  a  pleased  way,  &quot;It's  wonder-  ful!  You  should  try!  Like  a  dreamy  feeling  ..  .  [REDACTED];  She  had  missed  the  sight  of  her  own  gesture;  she  was  the  only  person  at  ease  in  the  room.  HERE  was  no  performance  the  next  morning.  I  suppose  the  first  audience  had  been  too  disappointingly     " b'small.  When  my  husband  asked  after  the  magician,  at  lunch,  George  said  in-  attentively,  &quot;He  has  gone.&quot;  We  had  not  made  a  stop  anywhere,  but  of  course  pirogues  were  constantly  coming  and  going  between  us  and  the  shore.  The  boat  began  to  take  on  the  look  of  striking  camp;  we  were  due  at  Stan-  leyville  in  two  days,  and  some  of  the  Belgians  were  getting  off  at  the  big  agricultural  research  station  where  we  would  call  a  few  hours  before  Stanley-  ville.  Tin  trunks  with  neat  lettering  began  to  appear  outside  the  cabins.  The  honeymoon  couple  spent  hours  down  on  the  second  barge  cleaning  their  car.  They  had  rags  and  a  bucket,  and  they  let  the  bucket  down  into  the  river  and  then  sloshed  brown  water  over  the  metal,  which  was  too  hot  to  touch.  The  old  hand  changed  a  tire  on  his  rusty  jeep  and  announced  that  he  had  room  for  two  passengers  going  from  Stanleyville  north,  toward  the  537564616e.  Only  my  husband  and  I  and  the  priest  made  no  preparations;  he  had  run  out  of  things  to  read,  and  allowed  himself  a  cigar  in  broad  daylight  as  he  leaned  on  the  rail.  My  husband  and  I,  lean-  ing  beside  him,  had  only  the  meagre  luggage  of  air  travellers  and  a  single  briefcase  of  papers  for  the  congress  on  tropical  diseases  that  we  were  going  to  attend.  On  the  morning  of  our  last  day  aboard,  I  watched  passengers  strug-  gling  ashore  from  the  native  boat  against  the  stream  of  visitors  and  people  selling  something  coming  up  the  gangplank.  We  had  stopped  with  the  usual  lack  of  ceremony  at  a  landing  in  a  mile-long  village  of  huts  thatched  with  banana  leaves  and  surrounded  by  banana  plan-  tations  that  stretched  along  the  river-  bank.  The  white  boat  and  the  barges  stood  out  in  the  water  at  an  angle  from     the  shore;the  link  with  it  was  a  tenuous  one.  But  babies  and  goats  and  bicycles  passed  over  it,  and  among  them  I  saw  the  magician  going  ashore.  He  looked  like  any  other  young  black  clerk,  with  his  white  shirt  and  gray  trousers,  and  the  attach\xc3\xa9  case.  All  Africa  carries  an  attach\xc3\xa9  case  now,  and  what  I  knew  was  in  that  one  might  not  be  more  ex-  traordinary  than  what  might  be  in  some  of  the  others.'