 b"WHEN  they  have  no  more  strength  and  they  give  up  the  fight,  does  the  swimmer  love  the  sea  in  which  he  drowns,  the  climber  the  mountainous  height  that  will  make  fatal  his  fall,  the  zebra  the  lion  that  devours  it?  When  they  are  past  fear,  when  fear  is  behind  them.  I  have  watched,  in  a  documentary  film,  a  zebra  succumbing,  and  I  believe  I  saw  a  mo-  ment  of  love  as  it  yielded.  And  I  have  fallen,  rock-climbing.  It  was  several  years  ago  that  I  fell,  when  I  was  an  Army  doctor  in  the  Italian  Alps,  near  the  Yugoslav  border.  Carrying  huge  knapsacks,  we  would  walk  in  single  file  from  one  mountain  refuge  to  another.  Usually  we  took  the  easiest  or  most  natural  route-the  &quot;normal&quot;  way,  as  we  called  it-but  sometimes,  for  practice,  we  would  take  a  shorter,  almost  perpendicular  course.  Being  the  doctor,  wherever  we  went  I  had  to  be  the  last  man  on  the  line  and  take  care  of  any  soldier  who  lagged  be-  hind.  It  usually  meant  carrying  his  pack.  It  was  for  my  broad  shoulders-no   other  reason-that  I  was  sent  to  join  this  Alpine  corps.  My  colleagues  who  were  assigned  to  regiments  in  the  plains  pitied  me,  but  I  thought  of  the  Alps,  which  I  had  only  seen  from  train  win-  dows,  and  was  glad.  Sitting  on  a  high  ridge  or  divide  and  watching  the  thick,  gray  fog  on  one  side  drift  across  to  the  other  and  become  white  clouds  that  sailed  in  a  blue  sky  and  cast  their  shad-  ows  on  the  valley,  or  coming  to  well-  springs  so  clear  one  almost  had  to  dip  a  hand  into  them  to  know  they  were  there,  I  still  felt  glad.  More  often,  however,  I  felt  like  a  pack  horse,  espe-  cially  if  I  had  two  knapsacks  on  my  back,  as  I  had  on  the  day  that  I  fell.  On  that  day,  as  I  was  following  the  company  up  a  mountain,  I  found  a  sol-  dier  sitting  on  the  side  of  the  path.  He  looked  pale,  and  his  limbs  trembled  a  little.  We  rested  awhile,  then  I  picked  up  his  pack,  hitched  it  to  mine,  and  we  slowly  went  on,  We  came  to  a  towering  rock  that  jutted  out  like  a  nose  from  the  face  of  the  mountain.  'The  path  was  interrupted  by  it.  A  narrow  ledge  went  around  the  rock.  It  was  second-degree climbing,  not  difficult,  really-barely  a  need  to  hold  on  with  one's  hands.  If  I  felt  apprehensive,  it  was  only  because  of  the  great  height  and  the  overhang.  Im-  mediately  under  us,  for  thirty  feet,  was  the  air.  Then  the  mountain  slope  again,  steep  and  rocky.  At  the  bottom  of  it,  three  or  four  hundred  yards  away,  we  could  see  the  path  down  the  mountain,  gently  sloping,  the  advance  part  of  the  company  already  on  it.  The  soldier  went  first  along  the  narrow  ledge,  cautiously  leaning  inward,  and  reached  the  soft  soil  of  the  path  again.  Then  I  went.  Halfway  around  the  rock,  perhaps  be-  cause  I  was  stooping  too  much,  the  sol-  dier's  knapsack  swung  to  one  side  and  came  between  me  and  a  hold  I  was  about  to  reach  with  my  right  hand.  My  left  hand  wasn't  in  a  position  to  support  me,  and  so,  not  to  fall  backward,  I  crouched.  In  a  moment,  my  hands  were  where  my  feet  had  been  and  my  feet  were  dangling  in  the  air,  searching  for  a  foothold  in  the  inward-slanting  rock.  The  ledge,  which  now  I  held  on  to  with  my  hands,  was  inclined  like  the  eaves  of  a  roof-fairly  safe  to  stand  on,  but  un-  safe  to  hold.  More  than  gripping  the  ledge,  my  hands  were  pressing  on  it,  and  all  the  while  my  feet  were  only  scraping  the  rock.  I  could  feel  my  hands  slipping  little  by  little.  I  called  for  help  then,  but  the  soldier  stood  there  on  the  path,  immobile  and  un-  aiding,  a  picture  of  fear.  I  could  scarcely  hold  the  grasp  a  moment  longer,  yet  the  moments  passed  and  I  held  on  still.  My  \xef\xac\x81ngers  were  like  claws  on  the  rocky  face.  Behind  me  was  open,  airy  space.  I  felt  myself  be-  coming  weak  and  panting.  As  though  I  could  hang  on  with  my  teeth,  I  bit  the  rock.  The  would-be  bite  was  a  parting  kiss.  Holding  nothing,  by  nothing  with-  held,  I  rested  for  a  mo-  ment  in  the  abyss,  as  in  a  bed.  After  the  effort  to  hang  on,  it  was  restful.  I  don't  think  I  ever  have  been  or  ever  shall  be  again  as  comfortable  as  I  was  at  that  moment.  I  have  never  known  such  abandonment.  It  waswhat  had  caused  or  contributed  to  causing  my  fall-the  knapsacks-  that  saved  me.  I  landed  on  them  as  on  a  huge,  soft  hump  onan  inclined  rock  thirty  feet  below  the  ledge,  rolled  down  at  least  another  thirty  feet,  and  stopped  " b"amid  heather.  I  felt  wrapped  in  pain,  too  shocked  to  move  or  cry.  Then,  slowly,  each  breath  I  took  told  me  that  the  worst  pain  was  in  my  ribs  and  that  my  arms  were  still  fit  to  raise  myself  with,  my  legs  to  walk  on.  Holding  myself  stiffly  and  taking  tiny  steps,  I  walked  toward  the  sergeant,  who  was  coming  for  me.  He  helped  me  gently  down  toward  the  base.  From  there,  like  my  patients,  I  descended  to  the  railroad  on  a  mule.  I  suffered  no  long-lasting  damage  other  than  dreams.  Often  I  have  dreams  about  it.  In  them  I  don't  rest,  but  twist  and  writhe  in  the  abyss  and  never  come  to  the  bottom.  They  end  only  when  I  awake.  Then  I  sit  up  on  my  bed,  afraid  to  go  to  sleep  again,  and  wonder  why  the  dreams  should  be  worse  than  the  re-  ality-why,  when  it  happened,  the  air  should  have  been  like  the  softest  and  most  restful  bed  I  have  known,  and  why,  in  my  dreams,  a  bottomless  pit.  Hoping  to  get  rid  of  these  dreams,  I  have  consulted  books  and  colleagues  of  mine.  In  my  last  days  of  military  serv-  ice,  finding  myself  not  far  from  the  place  where  I  fell,  I  even  retraced  my  path  to  the  rock  and  went  round  it,  without  knapsacks  this  time.  But  the  dreams  continued.  NLY  lately  has  something  given  me  hope.  In  fact,  I  may  even  be  cured.  Recently,  I  went  to  New  York  for  a  visit.  I  arrived  latein  the  evening  and  tooka  room  in  a  skyscraper  hotel  just  west  of  Times  Square.  I  asked  for  a  room  with  a  view,  and  got  one  on  the  twenty-fourth  floor,  looking  south.  The  city  had  never  seemed  so  beautiful  to  me  or  so  lofty.  It  was  late  and  it  was  rain-  ing  hard,  but  I  had  an  umbrella,  and  I  couldn't  resist  going  out  for  a  walk.  The  massive,  many-terraced  sky-  scrapers  on  Sixth  [REDACTED]  at  Bryant  Park  reminded  me  of  the  succession  of  cliffs  on  the  face  of  mountains  I  had  seen.  On  Park  [REDACTED],  the  new  build-  ings  seemed  made  of  ice.  Back  in  my  room,  I  switched  out  the  lights  and  looked  at  the  city.  I  felt  aselatedas  when  I  had  watched  .the  fog  become  clouds  in  the  Alps.  Not  until  I  lay  in  bed  did  I  think  of  my  fall.  Then  the  slippery  ledge  came  alive  and  I  felt  my  hands  holding  the  pillow  with  in-  ordinate  force-holding,  holding,  and  then,  finally,  as  I  bade  them  to,  giving  way,  yielding  as  they  had  done,  though  not  because  I  had  bidden  them  to,  when  I  had  prepared  myself  for  the  fall.  I  sat  up  on  my  bed,  rose  and  returned  to  the  window,  and  looked  down  at  the  street  and  across  to  other  buildings  high-  er  even  than  mine.  I  thought  of  my  dream,.  Reluctantly,  I  went  back  to  my  bed;  I  approached  it  warily,  and  pressed  its  softness  with  distrust.  I  did  dream.  I  was  in  midair,  but  notwrithing  and  twisting;  an  umbrella  was  braking  my  fall.  With  the  slow-  ness  and  lightnessof  a  soap  bubble,  I  sank  down  the  side  of  the  cliff  past  pret-  ty  crannies  and  nooks,  past  edelweiss  that  not  even  the  boldest  and  most  ex-  pert  climber  would  have  been  able  to  reach,  and  landed  as  softly  as  a  leaf.  When  I  awoke  in  the  morning,  the  first  thing  I  saw  was  my  umbrella,  which  I  had  left  open  to  dry  near  the  window.  Often  since  then,  I  have  wished  for  another  dream  like  the  last  one.  But  my  nights  have  been  dream-  less.  Perhaps  it  is  the  wish  to  dream  that  keeps  them  that  way."