 b"BELIEVING  that  she  was  dying,    and  certain  she  would  die  before  the  end  of  the  year,  Mrs.  Glover  told  her  son  Digby  to  choose  the  place  they-she  and  Digby  and  Janet,  his  fianc\xc3\xa9e-would  go  to  for  their  holiday  in  June.  Digby's  and  Janet's  vacation  problems  were  beyond  her  now;  they  would  have  to  begin  making  plans  of  their  own.  But  all  the  decisions  of  Digby's  life,  save  one,  had  been  made  by  his  mother.  Greatly  dismayed  by  the  prospect  of  freedom,  thecause  of  which  he  had  not  been  informed,  he  carried  a  number  of  Royal  Automobile  Club  maps  into  his  mother's  sitting  room  and  spread  them  on  the  floor.  Crouching,  he  stared  at  the  black  tracings-the  winding  highways,  the  names  of  strange  towns.  Here  there  would  be  mountains,  he  said  to  himself,  and  that  was  certainly  the  sea.  It  seemed  to  him  that  he  and  his  mother  and  Janet  had  been  to  every  possible  country,  and  had  started  over  from  the  beginning  years  before.  His  hands,  shuffling  the  maps,  were  aimless  and  weather-burned;  his  shrug  had  something  of  the  adoles-  cent's  &quot;Leave  me  alone.&quot;  Digby  was  thirty-four.  &quot;'There,&quot;  he  said,  having  made,  he  thought,  a  picture  of  Western  Europe,  with  most  of  the  pieces  in  place.  He  looked  up,  smiling,  with  one  hand  over  537061696e,.  He  held  a  cigarette  in  the  other  hand,  and  tried  to  be  careful  about  the  ash;  but  he  was  not  careful  enough,  and  his  mother  watched  without  saying  any-  thing  as  it  lengthened  and  fell.  Because  Mrs.  Glover  never  quite  asked  for  anything  she  wanted,  or  said  plainly  what  she  would  like,  Digby  could  not  know  now  that  shedid  not  wish  to  go  abroad  at  all.  If  this  was  to  be  her  last  June,  as  the  doctors  had  said  it  might  be,  she  wanted  to  spend  it  in  [REDACTED],  listing  the  furniture  and  the  linen  and  preparing  instructions  about  the  change  from  summer  to  winter  cur-  tains.  He  felt  the  weight  of  an  unex-  plained  silence,  and  supposed  that  even  though  he  had  said  nothing  except  &quot;There,&quot;  it  had  probably  been  the  wrong  thing.  He  returned  his  attention  to  the  floor  and  its  terrible  possibilities.  He  could  not  understand  these  maps,  which  were  so  simple  when  he  was  driving  somewhere  andhad  been  told  where  to  go,  and  so  muddy  when  they  presented  a  conundrum,  as  they  did  to-  day.  He  rocked  on  his  toes,  whistled,  shifted  his  hand,  saw  where  it  had  been  resting.  He  said  he  expected  they  could  go  to  537061696e,  &quot;'You  and  Janet  met  in  537061696e,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Glover.  &quot;Is  that  why  you  want  to  go  back  there  now?&quot;  Digby  had  forgotten  about  having  ever  met  her  anywhere.  He  did  not  say  so.  He  could  not  always  tell  where  his  mother  was  leading  him,  and  had  learned  to  take  care.  &quot;Oh,  Janet,&quot;he  said;  or  it  may  have  been  &quot;Old  Janet.&quot;  The  tone  sug-  gested  the  second.  Looking  down  on  Digby,  Mrs.  Glover  remembered  her  death,  with  the  satisfaction  of  someone  whose  mouth  is  obstinately  closed  on  a  secret.  She  knew  that  everyone,  including  oldJanet,  would  be  shocked  and  astonished  when  they  heard  of  her  long,  concealed  de-  cline.  She  knew  they  would  say  that  her  death  was  a  blessing  for  Digby  and  a  release.  Without  his  mother  to  thwart  him,  Digby  would  do  whatever  he  liked.  But  Digby  did  not  want  to  do  any-  thing.  Crouched  at  his  mother's  feet,  he  seemed  to  her  as  incapable  of  decid-  ing  anything  as  the  day  he  was  born.  Murmuring  over  his  maps,  burning  holes  in  the  carpet,  he  represented  not  so  much  a  piece  of  her  heart  as  one  of  her  last  commissions  on  earth.  Mrs.  Glover  had  lived  for  many  years  as  though  expecting  to  be  run  overby  a  bus;  her  affairs  were  in  order.  She  be-  lieved  she  could  have  died  in  a  minute,  without  a  word  of  complaint,  had  there  not  remained  two  questions  of  disposal.  One  was  this  house  in  [REDACTED],  which  she  cherished;  the  other  was  Digby,  her  bachelor  son.  The  disposal  of  Digby  caused  her  anxiety,  but  the  fate  of  the  house  caused  her  pain.  Digby,  though  puzzled,  would  not  mourn  her  long.  He  would  con-  tinue  driving  about  in  hairy  pullovers  and  gym  shoes,  and  reading  publications  about  motoring,  and  he  would  go  on  contributing  to  one  of  them-mostly  paragraphs  about  restaurants  in  which  he  had  luckily  not  been  swindled.  He  would  say  that  his  mother  had  gone  to  a  better  place,  and  that  he  was  bound  to  turn  up  there,  too,  eventually.  That  was     the  total  Digby,  in  his  mother's  eyes,  except  for  one  unexplained  action.  One  night,  seven  years  ago,  in  a  village  in  537061696e,  Digby  had  become  engaged  to  healthy  Janet  Crawley,  who,  with  three  other  girls  from  her  office,  was  staying  at  the  Glovers'  hotel.  For  a  time,  Mrs.  Glover  had  feared  he  might  actually  marry  Janet.  She  hadno  great  fear  of  losing  Digby  but  did  not  want  to  acquire  Janet  as  well.  She  had  feared  he  might  marry  Janet;  now  that  she  knew  she  was  dying,  she  feared  he  never  would.  Digby  must  marry  Janet  for  the  sake  of  the  house.  It  was  a  narrow,  three-  storied  house,  to  which  she  had  given  all  the  obsessive  passion  she  had  once  felt  for  496e646961.  A  perfectionist,  she  could  not  really  love  a  human  being.  Human  beings  were  imperfect,  and  resisted  her.  Something  in  the  nature  of  people-  even  Digby's  nature-said  &quot;Hands  off.&quot;  496e646961  had  been  a  vast  idea,  and  496e646961ns  dying  were  poetic;  but  then  they  tried  to  trade  mystery  for  politics,  and  lost  Mrs.  Glover.  But  the  house  was  herself.  It  had  not  opposed  her,  and  was  unlike-  ly  to  disappoint  her  or  develop  a  will  of  its  own.  She  had  it  on  a  ninety-five-year  leasehold,  which  was  certainly  longer  than  one  could  ever  expect  to  keep  a  husband  or  a  son.  The  lease  would  not  expire  until  2032;  Digby  would  fill  at  least  thirty  years  of  the  span-forty,  if  Janet  looked  after  him-and  then,  un-  less  poor  Janet  had  waited  too  long  to  marry,  there  would  be  heirs.  Until  2032,  then,  the  house  must  stand.  Mrs.  Glover's  shade  would  be  there,  but  she  could  not  depend  on  its  powers.  Her  husband  had  died,  her  friends  had  van-  ished;  she  doubted  the  powers  of  ghosts.  Digby,  still  breathing  heavily  and  talking  to  himself,  traced  the  eastern  coast  of  537061696e  with  his  thumb.  &quot;We  could  go  where  we  went  that  other  time,&quot;  he  said,  pursuing  his  bright  idea.  &quot;Where  I  met  Janet,  as  you  say.&quot;  &quot;Did  you  like  537061696e?&quot;  &quot;You  don't  have  to  like  a  place  just  because  you  go  there  for  holidays,&quot;  he  said.  Tell  me  something  else  then.  Think  before  you  answer.  Do  you  like  this  room?&quot;  Digby  looked  around  him  and  said,  &quot;It's  not  bad,  but  all  that  pale  stuff  gets  dirty.&quot;  &quot;What  about  Janet?  Has  Janet  ever  said  anything  about  the  room?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  She  asked  me  if  all  the  stuff  was  ours,  once.  I  mean  from  our  people.  I  told  her  no,  from  antique  places  and  auctions.  I  told  her  it  was  something  like  Georgian  and  French.  I  suppose  that  was  right.&quot;  " b"&quot;Would  Janet  mind  about  its  being  so  pale  if  she  lived  here?&quot;  &quot;Janet  probably  has  things  fixed  the  way  she  wants  them  at  home,&quot;  he  said  reasonably.  'Tell  me  if  it's  all  right  about  537061696e.  I've  got  to  fix  it  up  with  old  Janet  and  fix  up  the  tickets  and  all  that&quot;  It  was  Mrs.  Glover's  habit  to  allow  Digby  the  last  word.  Looking  con-  tented-for  he  had  silenced  her,  he  thought-he  rolled  his  maps  and  slid  them  into  containers.  She  wondered  what  he  would  say  if  she  were  to  tell  him  this  was  to  be  her  last  June,  and  consequently  their  last  journey  abroad.  She  had  refused  the  operation  the  doc-  tor  had  offered;  it  seemed  to  her  that  Digby  should  know  without  having  been  told.  But,  as  always,  Digby  was  un-  able  to  see  into  her  mind.  He  might  not  have  believed  what  he  saw;he  might  have  supposed,  with  reason,  that  anyone  able  to  dwell  on  her  own  death  with  so  " b"much  distance  couldnot  believe  in  it  either.  In  truth,  Mrs.  Glover  realized  that  she  had  not  yet  understood,  and  she  did  not  believe  for  a  moment  that  she  would  not  be  here,  a  year  lat-  er,  saying,  &quot;'That  was  my  last  spring.&quot;  TOWARD  the  middle  of  June,  when  Janet's  annual  holiday  be-  gan,  Janet  and  Digby  and  Mrs.  Glover  flew  from  [REDACTED]  to  537061696e.  At  537061696e  they  crossed  the  city  by  taxi  and  got  into  a  bus.  Janet  enthusiastical-  ly  recognized  it  as  the  bus  she  had  taken  on  her  lasttrip  to  537061696e,  seven  years  before.  Mrs.  Glover  could  not  remem-  ber  anything  about  it.  During  the  bus  drive-ninety  miles-Digby  sat  by  him-  self.  He  believed  himself  to  be  desper-  ately  sick  in  anything  moving  unless  he  was  at  the  wheel,  and  in  the  course  of  their  long  engagement  Janet  had  learned  not  to  argue.  She  sat  beside  Mrs.  Glover  and  watched  the  backs  of  Digby's  ears  turn  dead  white.  He  would  not  take  anything  for  his  indisposition,  would  not  even  eat  less  than  usual  be-  fore  a  trip.  He  refused  to  roll  down  the  window  so  as  to  have  a  little  air.  He  told  the  two  women  to  let  him  alone.  Janet  plainly  was  feeling  a  little  squeamish  herself  after  the  bumpy  air  trip,  but  she  kept  up  a  conversation  with  Mrs.  Glover  about  the  cyclesof  life.  She  was  accustomed  to  thinking  of  old-  er  parties  first,  and  feared  that  if  she  sat  there  saying  nothing  Mrs.  Glover  would  think  her  impolite.  &quot;Every  seven  vears  a  new  cycle  of  life  begins,&quot;  said  Janet,  talking  with  the  clarity  of  extreme  nausea.  &quot;It  is  exactly  seven  years  since  you  and  Digby  and  the  girls  and  I  all  met  in  537061696e.&quot;  &quot;Digby  is  being  sick,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Glover.  They  finished  the  journey  in  the  last  hour  of  the  blazing  afternoon.  The  heat  inside  the  bus  was  stifling;  the  country-  side  was  as  unwelcoming  as  Mrs.  Glover  remembered  it.  At  the  hotel,  they  parted  with  the  speechless  animosi-  ty  of  people  who  have  travelled  badly.  When  they  all  three  met  again  for  dinner,  Janet  carried  an  angora  stole.  She  declared  the  holiday  officially  open.  &quot;Oh,  lovely,&quot;  she  said,  of  nothing  at  all.  Their  table  in  the  dark  dining  room  had  been  spread  with  perspiring  tomatoes  and  garlic  sausages.  There  was  a  bottle  of  brackish  water,  and  a  lump  of  bread  apiece.  Janet  smiled  and  sat  down  and  said,  &quot;Yes,  every  seven  years.  Digby  darling,  take  that  little  bit  of  pepper  out  of  the  sausage,  it  will  give  you  the  most  frightful  tummy  ache,  especially  after  what  happened  this  afternoon  on  the  bus.  When  I  was  seven,  or  something  like  seven,Hitler  came  to  power.  Digby  was  nearly  seven  when  his  father  died.&quot;  &quot;Why  doesn't  he  bring  us  some  wine?&quot;  said  Digby,  looking  round.  &quot;Don't  bother,&quot;  said  Janet.  &quot;I'll  catch  his  eye.  When  I  was  fourteen-  another  seven  years,  you  see-I  was  confirmed.  By  a  coincidence,  that  was  the  year  the  war  broke  out.  There  he  is.  .  ..  Vino,  camarero,  por  favor.  Dig-  by,I  don't  mind  drinking  that  water,   and  I  believe  in  drinking  the  water  of  a  country,  and  smoking  the  cigarettes  of  a  country,  but  I  imagine  your  mother  might  want  something  better.&quot;  Mrs.  Glover  could  not  have  said  just  what  she  had  been  doing  here  seven  years  before.  She  and  Digby  had  come  into  a  valley,  she  remembered,  and  seen  a  village  of  white  paint  and  stone.  There  was  a  fair,  and  a  grove  of  chest-  nut  trees,  and  beyond  that  the  umbrella  pines  that  told  them  they  were  nearing  the  sea.  They  had  driven  from  the  tree-  less  interior,  and  because  of  the  trees  and  theanticipation  of  the  sea  Mrs.  Glover  had  told  Digby  to  stop.  It  was  too  late  to  drive  on  to  537061696e  that  night,  she  said,  and  the  pleasure  of  wait-  ing  for  the  sea  might  be  better  than  the  truth  of  it,  which  was  likely  to  be  dirty  and  hot.  Janet  and  her  three  office  friends  were  in  the  hotel,  as  if  waiting  for  Digby.  They  had  been  victims  of  a  travel-bureau  fraud.  They  had  paid  for  an  all-in  holiday,  had  given  up  their  travel  allowances,  and  Zoo\xc3\xa9  at  the  place!  Disaster  made  them  bold  enough  to  speak;  Digby  was  tall  and  English  and  competent-looking.  The  four  girls  fell  on  his  neck.  &quot;...  life,&quot;  Mrs.  Glover  suddenly  heard.  &quot;At  twenty-one,&quot;  said  Janet,  tearing  bread,  &quot;I  had  a  tragic  experi-  ence.&quot;  They  knew.  Her  first  lover,  recover-  ing  from  a  broken  ankle,  developed  pneumonia  and  died  in  a  day.  Seven  years  later,  still  inconsolable  because  unclaimed,  she  met  the  Glovers  here.  " b"&quot;And  now  we  are  all  back  again,  and  nothing  has  changed,&quot;  said  Janet,  with  a  fall  in  her  voice,  as  if  the  sub-  ject  had  finally  ended.  &quot;Nothing  has  changed.  That's  what  I  mean  to  say  about  life.&quot;  Nothing  had  changed  except  Janet,  Mrs.  Glover  thought.  The  dining  room  was  unquestionably  as  it  had  been,  and  Digby  was  much  as  ever;  he  still  fancied  himself  a  sporting  figure,  in  his  Tyro-  lian  pullovers.  As  for  Mrs.  Glover,  her  passion  for  furniture  and  arranging  rooms  had  led  her  to  resemble  a  piece  of  furniture-but  had  she  not  always?  There  were  photographs  of  hertaken  thirty  years  before  that  a  clever  carica-  turist  could  have  turned  into  something  stiff  and  unremarkable-a  Parigiano  ballroom  chair.  There  is  a  fair,  Digby,&quot;  said  Janet.  &quot;I  saw  it  when  we  were  coming  into  the  village  this  afternoon.  I  think  we  might  go  and  look  at  it.&quot;  Janet  has  changed,  Mrs.  Glover  thought.  She  is  the  only  one  ofus  who  has  become  someone  else.  T  twenty-eight,  Janet  had  wor-  shipped  Digby  across  the  table  with  a  look  that  must  have  been,  for  him,  a  new  kind  of  mirror,  He  stared  back  at  this  image,  gave  orders,  and  began  showing  off.  Janet  could  stam-  mer  out  only  the  barest  facts  about  her-  self.  She  lived  with  her  parents,  who  were  vegetarians.  Her  father  had  been  a  clerk  with  a  shipping  line  out  in  496e646961.  She  had  a  job;  she  was  not  a  typist  or  a  secretary  but  something  more  impor-  tant.  She  really  ought  to  have  been  farther  along  than  she  was,  she  had  told  them,  blushing  steamily,  but  in  her  field  all  the  opportunities  went  to  men.  To  Mrs.  Glover,  who  knew  little  about  jobsof  any  kind,  it  sounded  astonish-  ing,  gritty,  and  rather  hot.  She  changed  the  topic  and  said  that  Digby,  too,  had  been  in  496e646961  as  a  child.  &quot;Ah,  no,  not  really?&quot;  cried  Janet,  clasping  her  hands.  Wasn't  the  world  small?  You  met  someone  in  537061696e,  in  a  forsaken  village,  and  discovered  you  were  both  in  496e646961  at  the  same  time.  Digby  looked  modest  and  felt  praised.  But  Janet  became  silent  when  told  that  Digby's  father  had  not  beenwith  the  Army,  or  Shell,  or  anything  like  that,  but  had  gone  out  there  with  his  wife  and  son  because  he  liked  it.  Liked  do-  ing  what?  said  Janet.  Why,  nothing,  Mrs.  Glover  said.  They  liked  496e646961;  that  was  all.  Well,  Janet  had  heard  some  funny  things  in  her  life,  as  they  were  often  to  hear  her  say,  but  when  she  heard  about  Digby's  father  and  mother  in  496e646961  for  no  reason  to  speak  of,  she  pursed  her  lips  as  if  to  whistle.  It  was  odd.  The  three  girls  from  Janet's  office  seemed  to  agree  with  her.  They  glanced  at  Digby's  hands  to  see  if  he  hadn't  a  touch  of  colored  blood.  Digby  at  that  instant  looked  questioning,  blunt,  and  plain,as  if  the  most  innocent  elements  of  parental  behavior  had  always  been  a  mystery  to  him,  too.  To  Digby,  none  of  the  reasons  for  choosing  mattered;  he  had  never  heard  of  freedom.  His  mother  had  taken  496e646961  up  and  put  it  down.  She  admired  496e646961,  and  then  it  fell  from  her  personal  tree  and  smashed  to  bits.  Digby  didn't  care.  What  he  wondered  now  was,  what  made  people  go  to  hot,  dangerous  places?  Why  should  his  father  have  died  in  496e646961,  where  there  was  cholera,  instead  of  dying  in  England,  of  some  homely  ailment,  on  a  moist  afternoon?  Janet's  expression  gave  the  question  form.  'That  night,  under  the  chestnut  trees  next  to  a  fairground,  Digby  and  Janet  became  engaged.  The  morning  after  the  engagement,  Janet  took  Mrs.  Glover  for  a  walk  and  showed  her  the  place  where  she  and   Digby  had  been  sitting.  She  indicated  a  rock,  but  Mrs.  Glover  looked  at  the  flattened  grass  beside  it.  &quot;You  had  a  pretty  view,&quot;  she  said,  pointing  to  the  pine  trees  on  the  opposite  bank.  But  Janet  had  lost  her  blush,  The  mystery  to  Mrs.  Glover  was  that  Digby  had  ever  got  as  far  as  that;  he  was  such  an  uninspired  boy,.  She  won-  dered  if  he  had  followed  seduction  with  remorse,  and  asked  Janet  to  marry  him  on  that  account.  In  any  event,  he  had  got  no  farther.  Janet  had  brought  to  life,  with  one  unbelieving  expression,  part  of  a  total  secret  he  had  been  won-  dering  about  for  years,  but  he  hadno  more  questions  to  put;  there  was  noth-  ing  for  Janet  to  answer.  They  had  never  married.  He  lived  at  home  with  his  mother,  and  Janet  had  her  absorbing  job.  Except  for  one  three-week  holiday  every  summer,  he  and  Janet  seldom  saw  each  other  alone.  There  was  no  other  way,  was  there?  Not  short  of  marriage.  Janet  lived  with  her  family,  Digby's  mother  seldom  dined  out,  and  women  like  Janet  do  not  make  love  in  doorways.  It  seemed  to  Mrs.  Glover,  at  times,  that " b"Digby  had  a  wife  in  [REDACTED]  and  that  Janet  was  a  girl  he  took  abroad.  Actually,  with  her  clamp  hold  on  three  weeks  of  his  life  every  year,  Janet  was  about  as  wifelike  as  anything  Digby  had  imagined.  One  year,  having  become  dazzled  by  another  girl,  a  jolly  girl  who  drove  an  Aston  Martin,  he  tried  to  put  off  taking  Janet  abroad;  he  hinted.  Janet  instantly  vanished  from  his  life,  and  returned  his  ring  by  registered  post.  It  was  a  small  diamond-and-turquoise  ring  that  had  belonged  to  Mrs.  Glover's  girlhood,  and  she  was  pleased  to  see  it  again;  all  the  same,  she  urged  a  reconciliation.  She  was  quite  certain  that  Janet  and  Digby  would  never  marry,  while  the  Aston  Martin  girl  was  far  too  lively  to  keep,  and  might  be  noisy  about  the  house.  &quot;You'd  better  ring  Janet  up,  Digby,&quot;  she  had  said.  &quot;She  doesn't  expect  it.&quot;  But  in  the  end  he  gave  in,  his  mother  invented  such  a  moving  picture  of  Janet,  puffy  and  swol-  len-eyed,  not  too  far  from  the  telephone,  not  toonear:  Janet,  who  had  given  him  the  best  of  her  life,  starting  with  twenty-eight.  She  described,  so  that  it  was  too  real  to  bear,  Janet's  mother  wash-  ing  the  leaves  of  the  plants  with  weak  tea,  while  the  father  con-  structed  a  ship  in  a  bottle.  It  was  enough  to  get  Digby  to  the  tele-  phone  and  urge  Janet  to  come  out  of  there,  if  only  for  an  evening.  Actually,  he  knew  it  wasn't  as  bad  as  all  that;  not  entirely.  The  Crawleys  lived  in  Putney,  and  ate  rice,  andhad  a  garden  and  quite  a  lot  of  Oriental  brass.  &quot;J  SUPPOSE,&quot;  said  Janet,  with  slightly  more  tension  this  time,  &quot;we  might  as  well  go  to  the  fair.&quot;  She  looked  mean-  ingfully  at  Digby;  he  ought  to  be  helping  his  poor  old  mother  up  the  stairs,  and  suggesting  tactfully  that  she  go  to  bed.  He  did  nothing  of  the  kind.  He  sent  a  waiter  for  his  mother's  wrap,  and  they  all  three  set  out  together,  as  they  had  often  done  the  summer  of  the  engagement.  &quot;It's  quite  a  climb,&quot;  said  Digby,  look-  ing  up  at  the  slope  and  the  chestnut  trees  and  the  risinglights  of  the  fair.  &quot;What  an  extraordinary  moon,&quot;  said  Janet.  &quot;You  can  see  everything.&quot;  Mrs.  Glover,  possessed  by  pain  that  was  now  silvery  and  quick,  now  black  \n\nand  square,  said,  &quot;Nonsense,  Digby,  it's  no  climb  at  all.  ...  Yes,  Janet,  that  is  a  full  moon.&quot;  On  this  hill,  Digby  had  proposed  to  Janet.  The  lovers  passed  the  place  without  remembering  it,  but  Mrs.  Glover  hesitated  and  saw  the  rock  and  remembered  the  grass.  &quot;But  where  arethe  pines?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Those  beau-  tiful  pine  trees.&quot;  There  was  no  answer;  theothers  had  gone  on. \n\n\n\nUpon  a  raised  platform,  couples  from  the  village  shuffled  and  stared.  The  orchestra  consisted  of  one  accordion,  one  drummer,  one  horn.  Nearby  was  a  life-size  cardboard  bull,  before  which  one  could  be  photographed.  &quot;Fancy,&quot;  said  Janet  vaguely,  as  if  she  were  try-  ing  to  see  herself  and  Digby  and  Mrs.  Glover  having  their  picture  taken  with  the  bull.  Mrs.  Glover  imagined  it  clear-  " b"ly,  and  walked  on.  &quot;Be  careful,  you  two,&quot;  said  Janet,  for  her  attention  was  held  by  the  booths  and  the  dancers,  and  she  feared  that  the  Glovers,  with-  out  her  constant  solicitude,  might  come  to  grief.  Digby  was  increasingly  fretful.  In  496e646961,  when  he  had  been  a  funny,  jaundiced-looking  little  boy,  his  mother  had  taken  him  to  a  fair  in  the  hills  where  jewels  were  piled  in  sea  shells;  there  had  been  shells  of  sapphires  and  emeralds  and  a  large  shell  full  of  pearls.  One  pearl  was  like  the  moon.  &quot;I  want  that  one,&quot;  Digby  said,  and  she  had  replied,  You  shall  have  it,&quot;  meaning  that  one  got  what  one  wanted  out  of  life.  &quot;'Take  care,  you  two,&quot;  came  Janet's  voice.  She  had  stopped  now  to  examine  the  treasures  offered  in  a  stall-paper-  weight  guitars,  and  sombrero  ashtrays.  She  looked  gravely  at  them,  consider-  ing.  Digby  wore  an  expression  Mrs.  Glover  remembered  from  his  childhood.  It  meant  &quot;I  am  going  to  be  very  naughty  now.&quot;  Poor  boy,  thought  Mrs.  Glover,  and  she  took  his  arm.  I  never  understood  that  you  meant  what  you  said  about  the  pearl,  and  I  never  said  what  I  meant;  isit  any  wonder  you  have  grown  puzzled?  ...  She  might  have  told  him,  &quot;Digby,  they  say  I  am  dying,  and  you  must  marry  Janet  for  the  sake  of  the  house,&quot;  and  that  would  have  been  saying  what  she  meant,  for  once,  but  just  then  she  heard  him  mutter  that  it  had  been  a  mistake,  coming  here.  &quot;You're  tired,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  not!&quot;  &quot;Well,  you're  not  enjoying  it.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  Janet  is.&quot;  She  looked  around,  but  Janet  was  lost.  &quot;Digby,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;see  if  you  can  find  Janet.  I  shall  bethere,&quot;  she  said,  pointing,  &quot;you  see,  between  the  fairground  and  those  pine  trees.&quot;  For  that  hadn't  been  the  rock,  of  course;  she  had  been  mistaken.  The  proposal  had  taken  place  on  this  side  of  the  fairground.  &quot;I  shall  sit  down  on  the  first  rock  I  come  to,  and  I  shall  wait.  Bring  Janet  when  you  findher,  and  we  can  all  go  back.  I  don't  think  we're  liking  537061696e.&quot;  &quot;You  might  becold,&quot;  he  protested.  Had  he  always  been  this  concerned?  She  sat  down,  after  he  had  left  her,  not  far  from  the  place  where  Janet  had  held  out  her  hand  and  said  &quot;Digby  asked  me  to  marry  him  there.&quot;  The  fair  and  the  chestnut  trees  were  behind  her;  the  pine  trees  held  out  their  weighted  branches  on  the  opposite  slope.  They  no  longer  gave  their  promise  of  the  sea.  She  saw  them  in  the  summer  moonlight,  stripped  to  the  bark,  hung  with  thou-  sands,  no,  millions,  of  white  cocoons.  There,  she  thought,  as  if  it  had  never   occurred  to  her  until  now;  everything  dies.  HAT  night  she  dreamed  the  dream  that  was  becoming  a  com-  mon  landscape  now.  It  was  a  long  Gals-  worthy,  or  Walpole-like  family  tale,  in  which  Mrs.  Glover  was  not  herself  at  all  but  athin,  dark-haired  girl  named  Amabel.  As  Amabel,  she  journeyed  with  a  young  mother,  four  or  five  sis-  ters,  a  governess,  and  a  butler  to  spend  long,  sunny  holidays  beside  the  sea.  She  saw  thebright  rooms  of  the  house,  breathed  the  sea  air,  touched  cups  and  curtains  sticky  with  it,  shook  jellyfish  out  of  her  bathing  costume,  saw  the  morning  sun  in  squares  on  the  bedroom  walls,  smelled  her  dream  sisters'  salty  young  hair  on  the  pillows.  And  she  knew,  waking,  that  she  was  being  drugged  and  softened  and  prepared  by  this  dream  so  that  she  would  go,  with-  out  fighting,  into  oblivion,  and  she  knew  that,  one  night,  on  a  journey  as  Amabel,  with  the  mother  and  the  pastel  sisters  and  a  charming  young  butler,  she  would  die  in  her  sleep.  Ah,  but  she  hadno  desire  to  die  that  way;  not,  at  least,  until  she  was  fore-  armed.  'The  pleasure  of  the  repeated  dream  must  be  stopped;  for  supposing  she  did  dissolve  into  Amabel,  and  then  from  Amabel  into  someone  else?  She  would  no  longer  remember  the  worry  of  having  once  been  Mrs,  Glover,  but  that  still  left  Digby  and  the  unsolved  problem  of  the  house.  Those  promises  from  beyond  the  grave,  she  thought,  the  world  was  full  of  them:  small,  tinny  " b"reverberations,  the  only  immortality  one  could  trust.  When  she  descended  in  the  morning,  she  foundJanet  in  the  dining  room.  Janet  said  she  had  hardly  slept  a  wink.  She  was  hot-eyed  but  calm.  Digby  had  not  returned  to  her  at  the  fair.  He  had  vanished  among  the  dancers.  Janet  had  finally  come  home  alone,  and  then  sat  and  waited  in  her  room,  where  she  had  eventually  fallen  asleep  in  a  chair.  Now  she  had  been  sitting  hours  in  the  hot,  fly-buzzing  dining  room,  drinking  foul  coffee  and  making  inquiries.  She  learned  that  Digby  had  come  in  at  four  o'clock  this  morning  dragging  a  card-  board  bull.  The  bull  was  there,  behind  them;  the  waiters  pointed  to  it.  Instead  of  looking,  Janet  took  on  the  high  voice  of  command  and  ordered  Mrs.  Glover's  breakfast.  Protein  makes  up  for  lost  sleep;  she  sent  up  a  second  breakfast  for  Digby,  with  plentyof  bacon  and  a  soft-boiled  egg.  &quot;Janet,  my  dear,  I'm  afraid  I  lost  you,  too.  I  spent  some  time  looking  for  the  pine  trees,  and  then  when  I  saw  them  they  were  [REDACTED];  &quot;I  know,&quot;  said  Janet.  &quot;I  saw  them,  too.&quot;  She  leaned  her  head  against  her  hand,  in  a  pose  of  classical  melancholy.  She  said,  in  a  tired  voice,  &quot;They  are  something  called  processional  caterpil-  lars.  They  kill  everything,  but  I  don't  believe  they  ever  become  anything  much-just  a  little  browny  sort  of  moth.  I  have  to  know  a  little  bit  about  that.  You  know,  it's  my  job.&quot;  As  though  something  of  the  most  excru-  ciating  intimacy  had  been  said,  she  turned  red-the  blush  she  had  lost  with  her  long  engagement.  No,  Mrs.Glover  did  not  know;  but  she  knew  there  is  control  from  beyond  the  grave,  if  one  is  careful  to  establish  it  in  time.  Janet  must  marry  Digby  be-  cause  Digby  was  unfit  to  stay  alone,  and  because  Janet  must  learn  to  take  care  of  the  house,  the  pictures,  the  rugs,  the  tables,  the  knives  and  the  forks,  the  glasses  and  chairs.  Mrs.  Glover's  un-  welcome  death  must  be  provided  for;  Janet  must  be  given  time  tolearn.  &quot;Digby  is  restless,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Glover.  This  was  the  first  time  they  had  ever  mentioned  Digby  in  his  absence,  and  Janet  sat  quite  still.  She  looked  at  the  stains  on  the  tablecloth  and  the  flies  de-  vouringcrumbs.  She  said,  &quot;I'm  de-  voted  to  Digby,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Devoted&quot;  was  as  much  as  Mrs.  Glover  was  likely  to  get.  Janet  might  adore  her  own  mother,  or  a  fine  day,  or  a  pretty  tune,  but  she  would  never  be  more  than  devoted  to  a  lover.  Mrs.  Glover  understood  it,  and  was  grate-  ful.  Understatement  made  it  possible  to  be  both  sensi-  ble  and  cruel,  and  since  living  often  obliged  one  to  be  both,  it  gave  the  assur-  ance  that  no  one  would  be  harmed  too  deeply.  She  was  grateful  to  Janet  for  being  devoted  and  nothing  more.  &quot;I  am  devoted  to  Dig-  by,&quot;  Janet  went  on,  playing  with  crumbs,  &quot;but  last  night  has  changed  things.  If  he's  going  to  be  that  sort,  com-  ing  in  drunk  and  that,  I  don't  want  him.&quot;  Mrs.Glover  wasted  no  time  thinking  this  was  not  true.  She  saw  the  tight  lines  around  Janet's  mouth;  the  wretched  woman  was  hopelessly  moral  where  mar-  riage  was  concerned.  She  would  trail  on  in  an  end-  less  engagement  as  long  as  Digby  wanted,  probably  ac-  cepting  some  peevish  story  of  mother  love,  only  man  of  the  family,  mother  would  perish;  but  she  would  not  marry  a  man  who  could  desert  his  mother  and  his  betrothed  at  a  public  fair  in  a  foreign  country  and  come  in  at  four  o'clock  in  the  morning  with  a  cardboard  bull.  That  was  the  lucky  thing  about  a  long  engagement,  she  could  almost  hear  Janet  sav-it  gave  you  time  to  find  every  possibility  out.  &quot;Digby  is  slightly  restless,  and  mar-  riage  would  settle  him,&quot;  said  Mrs  Glover,  pitying  Digby,  who  now  joined  the  company  of  men  whose  fate  had  been  settled  by  a  pair  of  women  over  empty  cups.  &quot;It's  changed  things,&quot;  said  Janet  again.  &quot;I  shall  have  to  think  about  it  now.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  there  isn't  much  time,&quot;  said  Mrs.  Glover.  &quot;Oh,  there's  plenty  of  that,&quot;  said  Janet  sadly,  as  though  nothing  but  time  were  left."