 b"THEY  had  decided  not  to  speak  to  each  other  any  more  because  all  they  could  say  were  bitter  things.  There  were  long  silences  between  them  in  which  both  realized  they  had  noth-  ing  to  say.  Then  she  spoke  and  she  said  the  wrong  thing  and  knew  it  instantly  because  it  made  him  angry  or  sad.  Then  he  tried  to  say  something  amusing,  and  it  sounded  so  stupid  that  both  withdrew  at  once  to  let  that  nonsense  pass  and  separate  them  even  more.  He  knew  that  she  was  thinking,  But  how  strange-  this  was  an  intelligent  man,  I  admired  him,  I  was  caught  by  his  intelligence,  stricken,  chained  to  his  destiny  for  years  only  because  of  that,  and  listen  to  him  now.  .  .  .  Knowing  she  thought  it,  he  wished  she  would  say  it.  The  idea  of  goading  her  with  some  cruel  remark  tempted  him,  too,  and  he  knew  that  she  knew  this  and  was  careful,  very,  very  careful  not  to  say  anything  unkind.  And  even  though  her  kindness  was  like  oxygen  to  him,  he  felt  it  was  unfair  of  her  to  use  it  as  a  shield  or  a  weapon.  But  she  was  careful  even  before  they  stopped  saying  anything.  Oh,  how  careful  she  was,  how  soft  her  voice  be-  came  when  the  moment  approached  in  which  she  would  say,  &quot;We  have  been  on  the  phone  for  fifty  minutes,  and  I  was  in  a  hurry.&quot;  Nothing  of  this  kind  any  more,  and  no  complaints,  no  egotistical  remarks  of  the  I-am-in-a-telephone-  booth  type,  or  I-am-still-dripping-and-  the-windows-are-open.  When  love  is  young  and  strong,  one  can  still  treat  it  harshly;  it  will  not  even  feel  it.  But  not  when  it  is  all  cut  open  and  the  sur-  geons  have  given  up  hope.  They  both  held  the  telephone  like  a  revolver  with  the  trigger  cocked,  each  wishing  the  other  would  be  guilty  of  shooting.  And  she  knew  what  he  thought:  When  my  work  goes  so  badly  and  every  good  idea  abandons  me,  you  abandon  me,  too,  in-  stead  of  helping  me.  ...  And  she  knew  furthermore  why  he  did  not  say  so.  Also,  those  were  the  very  words  her  husband  had  saidto  her  when  this  man  had  come  along,  ten  years  before,  and  she  had  felt  so  guilty  then,  and  who  but  this  man  had  provided  the  answer  and  the  ac-  quittal?  &quot;Your  husband  is  a  fool.  You  are  not  indifferent.  You  are  not  an  egotist,  you  area  woman.  And  by  virtue  of  your  feminine  instinct,  rather  than  acting  like  a  person  with  a  judgment  of  her  own,  you  act  asa  thermometer;  you  indicate  what  goes  on  in  the  person  you  are  close  to.  Can  a  thermometer  be  accused  of  cowardice  or  egotism?&quot;  How  she  had  liked  that  argument,  how  it  had  sustained  her  when  her  hus-  band  was  beside  himself  with  despair,  and  how  quiet  and  superior  this  man  had  seemed.  She  could  never  then  have  pictured  him  threatening  suicide,  and  behaving  so  basely,  and  showing  such  complete  lack  of  self-respect.  All  that  was  in  their  silences  now,  marked  by  the  ticking  in  the  telephone,  which  helped  createthe  illusion  of  their  sitting  together  in  a  cinema  and  watch-  ing  some  old  silent  film.  &quot;What  is  this  ticking  noise?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;A  ticking  noise,  what  else?  No  one  is  listening  in.  Thank  God.  They  would  think  we  were  insane,  to  stand  here  and  say  nothing  for  hours.&quot;  &quot;I  guess  they  would.&quot;  And  still  the  gun  was  kept  on  trigger.  Recriminations  are  so  useless,  he  thought.  Your  fault,  my  fault,  you  said  this,  I  did  that,  I  said  this,  you  did  that.  .  ..  The  eternal  theme  ofright  and  wrong.  Solitude,  keep  me  company,  solitude,  sing  my  song.  ...  &quot;It  rhymes,&quot;  he  whispered  to  himself.  &quot;W  hat  did  you  say?&quot;  &quot;Nothing.&quot;  &quot;Please,  darling,  tell  me,  You  know  women  are  curious.&quot;  That  word.  That  good,  good  word.  He  could  have  put  his  teeth  into  it.  Well?  Does  it  take  so  long  to  de-  cide?&quot;  &quot;Decide  what?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;To  tell  me.&quot;  &quot;Tell  you  what?&quot;  &quot;What  you  were  whispering  to  your-  self  before.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  nonsense.  Why  do  you  have  to  know?&quot;  &quot;I  told  you-because  women  are  curious.&quot;  &quot;Women?  Why  do  you  say  'women'  all  of  a  sudden?  Are  you  not  a  wom-  an?&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  am.&quot;  &quot;Then  why  not  say,  'I  am  curious?&quot;  &quot;But  what  is  it,  darling?  Every  word  I  speak  seems  to  antagonize  you.  Shall  I  hang  up?&quot;  &quot;If  you  want  to,  go  ahead.&quot;  &quot;Of  course  I  don't  want  to.  But  why  this  hurt  tone?  What  have  I  said?&quot;  Nothing.  Nothing.  Nothing.  There  was  a  time  you  said  so  many  things.  Now  you  never  say  anything.&quot;  &quot;If  this  is  what  you  feel,  why  do  we  go  on  talking?&quot;  'Talking,  you  said?  Would  you  call  this  a  conversation?&quot;  Now  the  silence  was  hers,  and  it  seemed  painful,  probably  full  of  tears.  He  witnessed  it  blindly  with-  out  knowing  what  he  was  witnessing,  because  his  cer-  tainty  came  only  from  his  own  corner  of  solitude,  in  which  two  feelings,  like  the  red  and  white  lenses  of  a  light  tower,  lend  their  color  to  the  beam  and  announce  to  the  world  that  itis  red  or  white.  When  it  was  love  he  felt,  he  knew  that  she  was  crying;  when  contempt,  he  imagined  her  cold  and  con-  temptuous  as  he  was.  &quot;Well?&quot;  he  asked,  breath-  ing  heavily  into  the  telephone.  He  thought  he  heard  a  sob,  but  what  he  knew  he  heard,  a  fraction  of  a  second  afterward,  was  the  trigger  go  down,  slowly,  very  slow-  ly,  perhaps  because  she  still  " b"loved  him  too  much  to  goon  torturing  him  so,  or  perhaps  she  de-  spised  him  too  much  to  let  him  take  part  in  her  sorrow.  Down  it  was  on  her  side  and  down  it  came  on  his  side,  too.  &quot;'The  beast,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;the  stupid  fool!&quot;-not  knowing  whether  he  meant  him-  self  or  her.  Because  he  did  not  know  whether  she  had  hung  up  on  him  or  he  on  her.  He  could  imagine  her  re-  ply,  still  in  the  form  of  a  question  (&quot;And  what  else  could  I  do,  after  what  you  had  said  to  me?&quot;),  to  histerri-  ble  question,  whichhad  been  a  reply.  LOVER  and  a  telephone  left  alone  in  a  room  can  destroy  a  whole  city.  What  a  charge  of  ar-  tillery,  shot  through  the  cables  under  the  street  and,  up  the  walls,  cleverly  calculated  and  dialled  on  the  black  wheel  of  Fortune,  rings  into  sleeping  ears  and  shatters  empty  apart-  ments,  asking,  in  that  shrill  tone,  &quot;Where  is  she  now?  Where  is  she?  What  is  she  doing  away  from  me?  Who  sees  her  cry?  Who  trespassed  on  those  furrows  in  her  face  that  I  have  sown  with  tears?&quot;  By  five  o'clock  she  was  still  missing  from  the  world,  so  hetook  to  the  bot-  tle.  &quot;In  vino  veritas!&quot;  he  said  to  him-  self.  Never  again  shall  I  be  such  a  fool!  It  is  only  when  we  recapture  our  own  dignity  that  we  know  what  we  have  lost  or  are  about  to  lose.  Why  love  should  always  bring  in  its  wake  this  world  of  calculations,  fears,  pains  and  repairs,  recoveries  and  funerals,  one  never  knows,  but  this  seems  to  be  in  its  nature.  First  you  must  think  that  it  will  never  end,  then  that  it  cannot  last,  and  if  you  don't  firmly  believe  the  first  thing,  you  can  never  even  begin  to  understand  the  second-as  if  this  were  a  privilege  with  the  punishment  attached  to  it.  Count-  ing  the  wasted  time,  the  losses  and  the  horrors  in  which  every  brief  moment  of  joy  came  wrapped,  the  fears  of  uncer-  tain  hope,  the  pains  of  certain  parting,  it  seems  madness,  real  madness.  Never  again!  When  wino  veritas  began  to  fade,  he  took  to  poetry.  In  veritate  vinum!  It  was  worth  it,  it  was  all  worth  it!  Pain  was  joy,  loss  was  gain,  all  we  must  find  is  the  right  words-those  that  will  lift  the  burden  from  the  heart  and  change  it  into  a  bird,  a  beautiful  white  bird.  Oh,  how  it  glitters  in  the  blue,  how  it  swims  in  the  wind.  .  .  .  But  then  it  fell  again,  because  someone  had  called  and  it  was  the  wrong  voice.  Nine  o'clock  and  she  was  still  missing  from  the  world.  He  went  to  bed  and  could  not  sleep.  So  he  looked  at  the  window  and  it  was  crying,  crying  all  the  tears  of  the  rain,  letting  itself  be  scarred  from  the  right  and  the  left  with  lines  of  sorrow  that  distorted  the  view.  &quot;Who  cares?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Who  cares,  even  if  the  whole  world  were  to  go  blind  forever,  she  has  not  telephoned,  the  good  days  of  my  life  are  no  more,  there  is  nothing  worth  living  for  in  here,  no  one's  expected.&quot;  And  he  went  off  to  sleep.  But  then  he  woke  and  heard  a  noise,  a  strange,  hammering  noise,  and  he  looked  at  his  window  and  it  was  shak-  ing,  it  was  being  battered  by  the  wind.  &quot;Who  cares?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Who  cares  if  it  breaks,  if  the  storm  lifts  the  bedsheets  and  the  carpet,  if  the  papers  are  scat-  tered  and  the  furniture  stained?  She  has  not  telephoned.&quot;  And  he  went  back  to  sleep.  But  then  he  woke  and  saw  a  light-  a  strange,  glittering  light  that  crept  un-  der  his  pillow,as  if  a  whole  police  squad  had  come  in  from  the  sky  to  torture  him,  to  question  him.  So  he  sat  up  and  looked  at  the  window  and  it  was  staring,  star-  ing  terribly  at  him  with  all  the  whitest  anger  of  the  storm  imprinted  on  the  dark,  and  &quot;Who  cares?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Who  cares,  even  if  the  whole  world  were  to  be  set  on  fire?  No  one  hides  in  my  arms  any  more,  so  now  stare,  my  poor  window,  stare  and  see!  See  that  my  blood  is  dry,  see  that  I'm  dead,  see  that  this  room  is  empty!&quot;  "