 b"MY  wife  and  I  were  paying  guests  M  in  central  [REDACTED]  last  sum-  mer;  I'll  call  our  hostess  Mme.  Lecam  and  her  house  the  Chateau  de  Folmont.  It  was  a  picturesque  late-  medieval  castle,  with  pepper-pot  towers  and  a  dry  moat,  built  high  on  a  hill  with  a  vast  view  over  the  Dordogne  River  and  the  surrounding  countryside.  For  centuries,  it  had  been  the  summer  resi-  dence  of  the  bishops  of  the  river  town  that  we  saw  far  below  us  from  our  bed-  room  windows.  Only  a  few  of  Fol-  mont's  many  rooms  were  kept  in  livable  repair.  Ours  was  enormous,  and  had  the  coat  of  arms  of  one  of  the  bishops  in  painted  plaster  over  the  door,  a  life-size  copy  of  Guido  Reni's  &quot;Archangel  Michael  Vanquishing  Satan&quot;  over  the  mammoth  fireplace,  and  a  tremendous  gilded  rococo  bed.  Mme.  Lecam  was  charming,  petite,  efficient.  Folmont  had  come  down  to  her  from  the  ancestor  who  bought  it  from  the  nation  as  confiscated  church  property,  at  the  time  of  the  French  Revolution.  Her  husband,  a  [REDACTED]  doc-  tor,  had  died  in  a  German  prison  camp  during  the  war;  her  two  sons,  both  of  whom  were  young  doctors  just  begin-  ning  practice  in  [REDACTED],  could  seldom  come  to  visit  her  with  their  families,  so  every  sum-  mer  she  took  in  a  few  guests,  like  us.  The  rest  of  the  year,  she  lived  in  [REDACTED].  During  the  periods  of  Mme.  Lecam's  residence,  Folmont  renewed  one  link  with  the  local  bishops,  whose  predeces-  sors  had  been  its  proprietors.  Once  a  week,  all  summer-Thursday  morn-  ings,  as  I  recall-the  current  bishop  or  one  of  his  assistants  came  up  the  hill,  at  Mme.  Lecam's  invitation,  and  said  Mass  for  her  and  her  few  guests,  if  they  cared  to  attend,  in  the  chateau  chapel.  We  spent  several  weeks  at  Fol-  mont-longer  than  most  guests,  some  of  whom  made  it  merelyan  overnight  stop  on  the  road  from  [REDACTED]  to  the  Pyr-  enees-and  we  became  friendly  with  Mme.  Lecam.  She  took  us  for  rides  in  her  tiny  Citro\xc3\xa9n  deux-chevaux.  We  went  with  her  to  the  fishery,  whence  she  brought  home,  in  a  metal  tank,  the  trout  that  subsequently  appeared  on  the  menu  as  truites  au  bleu;  to  the  country  baker  who  provisioned  the  chateau  with  a  spe-  cial  kind  of  bread  for  breakfast  toast;  to  ruined  castles;  to  prehistoric  caves;  to  a  field  she  owned  where  the  sorrel  grew  especially  flavorsome  for  soup.  We  en-  joyed  these  rides.  The  Citro\xc3\xa9n  dewux-  chevaux  has  a  very  personal,  soothing     kind  of  motion,  rather  like  a  rocking  chair,  and  the  excursions  Mme.  Lecam  took  us  on  made  us  associate  that  motion  with  the  gentle  Dordogne  country  through  which  we  drove.  One  day,  we  told  her  we  would  never  be  able  to  think  of  that  countryside  without  recalling  her  and  her  little  car.  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Now  that  there  are  no  more  horses  and  carriages,  this  is  strictly  a  deux-chevaux  part  of  the  world.  A  big  car  would  dwarf  all  the  nice  oldthings  in  it.&quot;  We  were  always  accompanied  on  our  excursions  by  Mme.  Lecam's  lit-  tle  fox  terrier,  Foxette.  (In  [REDACTED],  a  fox  terrier  is  called  un  fox.)  She  was  a  gay,  bright  little  dog,  friendly,  with  an  occasional  sharp  bark  that  was  merry  and  not  annoying.  From  our  window  at  Folmont  we  could  see  another  old  chiteau.  This  one  looked  handsome,  too,  and,  like  Folmont,  it  had  pepper-pot  towers,  but  it  was  down  on  the  floor  of  the  valley,  nestled  among  a  grove  of  trees  not  far  from  the  river.  We  asked  Mme.  Lecam  about  it.  &quot;Oh,  Mes-  trigres,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;We'll  drive  over  there  some  afternoon.  It's  a  lovely  old  place,  in  its  way.&quot;  She  told  us  it  was  owned  by  a  friend  of  hers,  a  Mme.  Simon,  who  lived  there  alone  the  year  round.  Un-  like  Folmont,  which  had  al-  ways  been  &quot;just  a  summer  retreat,&quot;  Mestricres  was  a  self-supporting  estate,  with  much  rich  farmland.  &quot;Of  course,  its  location  implies  a  disadvantage,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  has  no  view.  Being  used  to  Folmont,  I  always  feel  stifled  there.  I  could  never  live  at  Mestri\xc3\xa9res.&quot;  [REDACTED]  morning,  Mme.  Lecam  asked  us  if  we'd  like  to  go  to  Mestrigres  that  day  for  tea,  and  when  we  said  we  would,  she  telephoned  Mme.  Simon  and  made  the  appointment.  About  four  o'clock,  we  set  out.  We  drove  through  the  town  and  along  the  valley,  much  of  it  planted  with  grain  and  with  fruit  trees.  &quot;These  fields  we're  crossing  now,&quot;  Mme.  Lecam  said  after  a  while,  &quot;are  already  part  of  the  domain  of  Mes-  tricres.  By  the  way,  I  think  I  should  tell  you  that  you  may  find  Mme.  Simon  a  little  emotional.  'The  poor  lady  lost  her  husband  recently.  She  hasn't  had  time  yet  to  profit  from  what  consolation  the  years  can  give,  as  I  have.  He  was  a  farmer,  maintaining  Mestricres  as  his  ancestors  did  before  him.  The  Simons  had  no  children,  and  when  my  friend  dies  the  place  will  go  to  some  distant " b"relations  of  her  husband's,  to  keep  it  in  the  family.  Meanwhile,  she's  managing  everything  singlehanded.&quot;  We  turned  up  a  tree-lined  drive,  and  as  soon  as  we  reached  the  chiteau  court-  yard  we  saw  that  Mestri\xc3\xa9res  was  far  more  exquisite  in  its  architecture  than  Folmont.  Folmont  was  noble  and  imposing  on  its  hill,  and  there  was  beauty  in  its  severity.  But  on  Mestri\xc3\xa9res  someone  had  lavished  detailed  artist,  ry.  During  the  early  Renaissance,  the  medieval  door  and  window  frames  had  been  replaced  with  carved  lintels  and  pediments.  The  stone  was  of  a  warm  yellow  color,  unlike  the  colder  gray  of  Folmont,  and  it  seemed  almost  alive-  curling  and  twisting  intendrils,  vines,  leaves,  buds,  and  flowers,  all  carved  in  low  relief.  There  were  even  a  few  carved  birds  and  animals,  making  one  think  of  the  sculptured  Renaissance  salamanders  on  the  chiteaux  of  the  Loire.  Mme.  Lecam  saw  the  admiration  on  our  faces.  &quot;Isn't  it  delightful?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  makes  poor  Folmont  look  like  a  barracks.  Of  course,  there  are  some  connoisseurs  who  find  the  mixture  of  styles  not  exactly-&quot;  She  broke  off  as  our  hostess  appeared  in  the  doorway.  Mme.  Simon  was  large  and  dowdily  dressed,  and  rather  rustic  in  appearance-unlike  Mme.  Lecam,  who  always  looked  as  trim  as  though  she  were  stepping  out  of  her  apartment  near  the  Parc  Monceau.  The  two  friends  greeted  each  other  affectionate,  ly;  my  wife  and  I  were  introduced  and  made  welcome.  Mme.  Lecam  had  care-  fully  left  Foxette  in  the  deux-chevaux,  its  windows  open  sufficiently  to  give  her  air.  But  justas  Mme.  Simon  was  saying  &quot;It  does  me  good  to  see  new  faces,&quot;  heard  a  strange,  raucous  cry,  and  im-  mediately,  as  though  in  answer,  there  was  a  bark  from  the  Citro\xc3\xa9n,  and  we  turned  just  in  time  to  see  Foxette  wriggle  throughone  of  the  window  openings,  leap  to  the  ground,  and  dis-  appear  in  a  flash  around  the  corner  of  the  house.  &quot;''The  peacock!  'The  pea-  cock!&quot;  cried  the  two  friends,  and,with  them  in  the  lead,  we  all  went  in  pursuit.  On  the  other  side  of  the  chiteau,  we  came  to  a  terrace  giving  on  a  formal  garden  of  boxwood  parterres.  There,  among  outdoor  furniture,  close  to  a  table  already  partially  set  for  tea,  Fox-  ette  was  standing  planted,  every  hair  on  her  little  body  abristle  and  her  legs  braced  well  apart,  growling  at  a  pea-  cock.  The  bird  was  standing  inas  stiff  and  menacing  a  pose  as  Foxette,  his  long  neck  thrust  forward,  his  beak  a  few  feet  from  Foxette's  nose,  and  he  was  hissing.  But  instead  of  the  gorgeous  fantail  heshould  have  raised  as  his " b"banner  of  defiance,  only  two  long,  ragged  tail  feathers  stuck  ludicrously  straight  up.  &quot;OM,  le  pauvre  grotesque  bonhomme!&quot;  cried  Mme.  Lecam.  &quot;What  in  the  world  has  happened  to  him?  Surely  Foxette  hasn't  had  time  to  do  that  much  damage  to  him  already!&quot;  &quot;It's  molting  time,  alas,&quot;  said  Mme.  Simon  ruefully.  &quot;Poor  Beau!  He's  so  self-conscious.  He  knows  all  about  it.  Especially  at  night,  when  he  hops  up  to  the  tree  branch  he  sleeps  on  and  looks  down  and  sees  what  his  tail  looks  like.  He  cries  so  sadly  in  the  twilight,  and  I  go  over  and  comfort  him,  and  then  he  falls  asleep.  'This  is  his  period  of  humiliation.  It  won't  last  much  longer,  though.  The  new  feathers  are  beginning.&quot;  We  could  see  some  shoots,  or  quills,  like  sprouting  plants,  where  the  new  tail  would  be.  Mme.  Lecam  had  dis-  tracted  Foxette  and  was  now  holding  her,  squirming,  in  her  arms.  Beau  slowly  raised  his  head  and  lowered  what  was  left  of  his  tail.  Then  he  turned  and  stalked  away  from  us.  &quot;His  with-  drawal  would  be  so  beautiful  at  any  other  time  of  the  year,&quot;  said  Mme.  Simon  wistfully.  &quot;You  are  going  to  get  him  a  wife,  aren't  you?&quot;  asked  Mme.  Lecam.  &quot;He  must  be  lonely.  He'll  become  neurotic.&quot;  &quot;'Yes,I  have  a  wife  on  order,&quot;  said  Mme.  Simon.  &quot;But  I  wrote  last  week  and  told  the  bird  farm  to  delay  sending  her.  I  don't  want  her  to  meet  Beau  just  yet,  for  awhile.  Il  ne  plairait  pas!  And  that  would  depress  him  still  further.&quot;  While  Mme.  Lecam  took  Foxette  back  to  the  car,  Mme.  Simon  showed  us  the  beauties  of  this,  the  garden,  fa-  gade  of  her  Here,  too,  there  was  Renaissance  ornament  around  the  doors  and  windows.  &quot;My  husband's  ancestors  were  patrons  of  the  arts,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;They  built  this  chateau.  It  has  never  left  the  family.  I've  always  thought  it  so  charming  of  Mme.  Lecam  toinvite  the  bishop  to  say  Mass  at  Folmont.  She  is  so  fine-feeling.  She  does  it  as  a  retribution,  of  course.  But  I  could  never  bear  to  live  in  a  house  that  I  knew  had  been  stolen  from  somebody  else.  Ce  n'\xc3\xa9tait  pas  \xc3\xa9l\xc3\xa9gant  the  way  [REDACTED]  treated  the  Church  in  1789.&quot;  HEN  Mme.  Lecam  reappeared,  Mme.  Simon  suggested  that  we  make  a  tour  of  the  chateau  before  tea.  In  the  entrance  hall,  she  took  up  a  flashlight  from  a  table  and  led  us  down  winding  stone  stairs  to  the  cellar.  The  vaulted  ceiling  rested  on  solid  round  columns  standing  on  a  hard  earthen  floor,  and  the  air  was  heady  with  the  fragrance  of  the  wine  that  was  stored  " b"in  casks  around  the  walls.  It  came,  Mme.  Simon  told  us,  from  Mestri\xc3\xa9res'  own  vineyards.  She  struck  a  match  and  lit  a  candle  that  was  in  a  holder  on  a  rough  wooden  table.  A  few  crude  stools  and  benches  were  set  around  it.  &quot;Will  you  ever  forget  our  parties  down  here?&quot;  she  said  to  Mme.  Lecam.  &quot;'The  two  of  youand  the  two  of  us-and  everybody  else?  The  wine,  and  the  gramophone,  and  the  dancing?  I  can  hardly  bear  to  come  down  here  any  more.  It  was  so  gay.  He  was  so  gay!  We  had  our  own  little  caveau  existentialiste  Saint-Ger-  main-des-Pr\xc3\xa9s  before  such  things  were  ever  heard  of!&quot;  Her  voice  broke.  Mme.  Lecam  embraced  her  and  kissed  her.  &quot;Je  m'  excuse,&quot;  Mme.  Simon  said  after  a  moment,  wiping  her  eyes.  &quot;Come  along.  There's  more  to  see.&quot;  She  took  us  upstairs  and  through  several  large  living  rooms  and  a  dining  room,  all  with  hooded  fireplaces.  In  the  kitchen,  there  were  three  fireplaces,  and  a  few  modern  fixtures  incon-  gruously  installed  in  acorner.  Then  we  climbed  a  flight  of  shallow,  wind-  ingstone  stairs,  and  emerged  into  an  enormous  room  on  the  second  floor.  The  ceiling  was  several  times  as  high  as  most  New  York  ceilings,  but  seemed  low  because  of  the  room's  great  dimensions.  There  was  just  one  piece  of  furniture-a  dust-covered  ping-  pong  table  in  the  center  of  the  floor.  Several  windows  looked  over  the  gar-  den.  &quot;My  husband  and  I  used  to  have  fun  here,  too,&quot;  said  Mme.  Simon.  &quot;I  never  come  here  any  more.  But  I  want  you  to  see  the  overmantel.&quot;  Like  the  exterior  of  the  doorways  and  windows  of  the  chateau,  the  slant-  ing  stone  chimney  breast  was  richly  carved.  But  here,  in  addition  to  plants,  animals,  and  birds,  there  were  human  figures.  The  scene  showed  a  building,  alandscape,  and  a  procession.  Wom-  en  in  medieval  costume  were  way-  ing  handkerchiefs  from  tower  windows  to  knights  on  horseback.  'The  knights'  shields  and  the  horses'  saddlecloths  were  adorned  with  crosses.  A  monk  led  the  procession,  holding  a  cross  high.  &quot;It's  the  ladies  of  Mestricres  bidding  farewell  to  the  men  as  they  left  for  one  of  the  Crusades,&quot;  said  Mme.  Simon  to  my  wife  and  me.  &quot;Of  course,  the  cary-  ing  was  done  later  than  theactual  event.  It's  early  Renaissance,  like  all  the  rest.  It's  as  though  a  modern  decorative  artist  were  to  depict  a  scene  that's  old-  fashioned  to  us-an  episode  from  your  Civil  War,  forinstance.  I've  always  meant  to  ask  you,&quot;  she  said,  turning  to  Mme.  Lecam,  &quot;whether  you've  ever  found  any  trace  of  the  Crusades  at  Folmont.  In  fact,  is  there  any  indication " b"that  there  was  a  Folmont  quite  as  early  as  the  Crusades?&quot;  Mme.  Lecam  good-naturedly  ad-  mitted  that  there  was  not,  and  then  she  said,  &quot;W  hat  an  extraordinary  period  the  Crusades  must  have  been  in  the  chateaux  of  [REDACTED].  It  seems  there  was  terrific  fervor,  especially  among  the  women.  They  sext  their  husbands  away.  It  was  shameful  for  a  man  not  to  go.  I've  seen  several  accounts  of  how  women  in  this  very  region  made  presents  of  distaffs,  as  symbols  of  scorn,  to  men  who  stayed  home.&quot;  &quot;A  fervor  to  send  men  away  cer-  tainly  strikes  me  as  extraordinary,&quot;  said  Mme.  Simon.  &quot;But  I  find  it  all  too  easy  to  imagine  what  life  must  have  been  like  after  they  left.  Don't  you,  ch\xc3\xa9re  amie?  All  those  women  living  alone?  What  did  they  do?  They  ran  the  places  themselves.  They  had  to.  Doesn't  that  sound  familiar  to  you?  They  embroidered.  Don't  you  em-  broider?  I  do.  And  they  kept  pets.  Look.&quot;  Pointing  to  a  corner  ofthe  carv-  ing,  Mme.  Simon  showed  us  a  peacock  standing  in  a  garden.  &quot;''That's  what  gave  me  the  idea  of  inviting  Beau  to  live  here  and  keep  me  company,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;What  company  can  we  lonely  women  have  except  our-&quot;  She  broke  off.  She  had  plainly  been  about  to  say  &quot;except  our  pets&quot;-refer-  ring,  of  course,  to  Beau  and  Foxette-  and  I  wondered  why  she  left  the  sen-  tence  unfinished.  I  understood  in  just  about  half  a  minute.  I  suddenly  became  aware  that  both  ladies  were  looking  at  my  wife  and  me.  Then  they  glanced  at  each  other.  And  all  at  once  I  had  a  vision  of  my  wife  and  myself  riding  through  the  Dordogne  in  Mme.  Le-  cam's  little  car,  riding  out  here  to  Mes-  tricres  to  see  Mme.  Simon.  And  in  the  flash  vision  we  were  both  of  us  still  pay-  ing  guests,  but  transformed-trans-  formed  into  a  nice  little  terrier  and  a  slightly  moldy  peacock  that  perhaps  dated  from  the  Crusades.  What  were  we-both  within  the  vision  and  with-  out-but  two  pets  to  help  two  lonely  French  ladies  pass  the  time?  &quot;Eh  bien,&quot;  said  Mme.  Simon,  briskly  rephrasing.  &quot;I  mean,  of  course,  what  can  we  do  except  distract  ourselves  with  whatever  comes  to  hand?  Shall  we  go  down  now,  and  have  some  tea?&quot; "