  POOR  SIGNORA!  her  friends,  in  her  clear  voice.  &quot;I  am  not  only  going  to  have  a  holi-  day,  I  am  going  to  indulge  myself.  Really  indulge  myself.  Peter  Steele  is  letting  me  have  his  house  in  a  little  town  on  Lake  Pella.  He  has  given  me  the  ad-  dress  of  a  good  woman  who  will  come  and  do  for  me....  No,  I  have  never  been  there  before.  ...  No,  not  much  [REDACTED];  When  Lydia  arrived  in  the  town,  she  asked  for  Peter's  house  and  was  under-  stood  and  directed  to  it-all  in  a  few  minutes,  and  no  scrap  of  trouble.  After  admiring  the  view  of  the  lake  from  the  bedroom  window  and  testing  the  mat-  tress,  she  immediately  set  out  on  foot  to  find  the  servant.  She  headed  straight  for  the  piazza,  where  there  was  sure  to  be  someone  who  had  heard  of  the  woman.  It  was  clear,  from  the  hopeful  way  they  looked  at  her  and  muttered  their  greet-  ings,  that  these  Italians  were  very  poor.  It  was  equally  clear  that  if  she  let  their  troubles  distress  her,  her  whole  holiday  would  be  spoiled.  So,  wearing  the  va-  cant  expression  of  one  who  suffers  from  both  deafness  and  myopia,  Lydia  crossed  the  small  piazza.  She  showed  her  piece  of  paper  to  a  shopkeeper  who  looked  in-  telligent,  and  he  pointed  to  a  woman  standing  hardly  ten  paces  away.  &quot;I  am  a  friend  of  Mr.  Peter  Steele,&quot;  she  informed  the  woman,  in  Italian,  hoping  that  &quot;friend&quot;  did  not  imply  &quot;mistress.&quot;  &quot;I  would  be  delighted  if  you  were  avail-  able  to  help  me  in  the  house.&quot;  This  sentence  came  from  a  phrase  book;  she  had  been  afraidthat  she  would  forget  It.  “IT  is  perfectly  simple,&quot;  Lydia  told  The  woman,  Vittoria  by  name,  was  tall  and  gaunt.  A  flood  of  words  burst  out-  what  a  pleasure  to  see  the  Signora,  how  nice  to  have  her  in  their  poor  town,  how  was  Signor  Steele,  had  he  reached  England  again  in  safety?  Lydia  let  it  all  roll  over  her,  wave  after  wave.  &quot;I  would  be  delighted  if  you  were  available  to  help  me  in  the  house,&quot;  she  repeated  in  her  exact  way,  when  the  wordy  flood  showed  signs  of  tiring  itself  out.  &quot;It  is  my  holiday,&quot;  she  added.  The  remark  was  highly  effective.  &quot;Of  course!  It  is  the  Signora's  holi-  day!&quot;  came  the  answer,  in  a  happy  cry,  and  for  a  moment  the  woman's  dark  eyes  lit  up  with  intense  excitement.  &quot;''Tomorrow  would  not  be  too  late  for  me  to  start,  Signora?&quot;  &quot;Not  if  you  come  at  breakfast  time,&quot;     said  Lydia,  and  with  a  short  smile  she  turned  away  from  the  fresh  flow  of  grateful  sentences.  &quot;She  looks  compe-  tent  and  I  shan't  care  much  if  she  chat-  ters,&quot;  Lydia  said  to  herself.  &quot;I  shall  only  listen  when  I  want  to.&quot;  EDIA  slept  for  a  good  ten  hours  that  night.  In  the  early  morning,  she  heard  a  curious  slapping,  bashing  sound  coming  from  the  end  of  the  garden,  as  if  a  passing  airplane  were  dropping  rolls  of  linoleum  into  the  water.  But  she  was  too  fast  asleep  to  pay  much  attention.  Somewhat  later,  a  low  voice  saying  &quot;Signora?&quot;  seemed  gradually  to  apply  toher.  She  opened  her  eyes.  Vittoria,  calm  and  gaunt,  stood  in  the  doorway  with  a  breakfast  tray.  &quot;Oh,  poor  Signora!&quot;  exclaimed  Vit-  toria,  &quot;I  have  awakened  you.&quot;  &quot;Not  a  bit,&quot;  said  Lydia,  somewhat  surprised  at  coming  up  with  the  correct  Italian  phrase.  Apparently,  what  her  Italian  needed  was  sleep.  &quot;I'll  tell  you  why,&quot;  said  Vittoria,  and  while  Lydia  started  breakfast  Vittoria  told  a  long,  uninteresting  story  involv-  ing  her  husband,  her  children,  her  health,  and  the  price  of  oil.  Lydia  found  that  she  could  under-  stand  more  of  Vittoria's  speech  than  she  was  really  interested  in.  &quot;Thank  you  very  much,  you  are  very  kind,&quot;  said  Lydia,  interrupting  this  monologue,  and  dismissed  Vittoria  by  turning  full  attention  on  the  rolls  and  coffee.  The  sun  fell  over  Lydia's  deserving  feet.  A  bleating,  singsong,  musi-  cal  phrase  came  over  the  water  as  the  local  bus  ran  down  the  mountain,  calling  its  sheep.  Numerous  rolls  of  linoleum  struck  the  shallows.  Lydia  got  up  and  went  to  the  window  to  investigate  the  linoleum-  dropping  sounds.  They  at  once  explained  themselves.  Four  crones-two  heavy-  weights  and  two  featherweights-  dressed  utterly  in  black,  knelt  in  what  appeared  to  be  wheelbarrows  pushed  into  the  shallows.  They  were  surrounded  by  every  kind  of  laundry,  from  boiler  suits  to  spinnaker  petticoats  and  veritable  strings  of  hideous  stockings.  All  these  they  seized  in  turn,  dripping  wet,  and  struck  them  with  fury  upon  granite  slabs,  sending  suds  and  echoes  far  out  into  the  lake.  What  a  way  to  treat  linen,  thought  Lydia,  and  returned  to  bed.  The  next  thing  she  heard  was  the  same  low,  questioning  &quot;Signora?,&quot;  and  there  was  Vittoria  with  a  tray  of  lunch.  &quot;Oh,  Vittoria!&quot;  cried  Lydia,  sitting    up  sharply.  &quot;Don't  tell  me  I  went  back  to  sleep  1»  &quot;Yes,  and  one  o'clock!&quot;  said  Vittoria.  &quot;Poor  Signora!  You  must  be  very  tired.&quot;  &quot;I  am,  Vittoria.  In  [REDACTED],  I  work  very  hard.  This  is  just  my  holidey.&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  agreed  Vittoria.  &quot;W  hat  is  better  than  sleep?  Ah,  Signora,  if  I  could  afford  a  holiday,  I  should  sleep  and  sleep  for  days!&quot;  &quot;''This  soup,  Vittoria!  How  do  you  do  it?&quot;  asked  Lydia.  ‘))  Thank  you,  Signora.  But  in  a  poor  |;  town  like  this-ah!  the  poor  dare  not  ||  dream  of  either  sleep  or  holidays.&quot;  And  before  Lydia,  still  a  bit  bemused  by  ex-  cessive  sleep,  could  choke  her  off,  the  woman  was  off  into  another  monologue  touching  on  every  single  member  of  her  family-how  old  they  were,  how  far  they  must  bicycle  to  work,  how  little  they  earned,  how  selfish  some  of  them  were.Lydia,  leaning  back  on  her  pil-  lows,  had  to  hear  it  all  and  try  to  savor  the  lake  trout  at  the  same  time.  She  could  have  screamed.  But,  with  a  sud-  den  gleam  in  her  black  eyes,  Vittoria  concluded  her  soliloquy  and  began  tuck-  ing  Lydia  into  bed  almost  violently.  &quot;I  think  a  bath  would  relax  me,  so  don't  tuck  me  up  too  tight,&quot;  said  Lydia.  &quot;But,  poor  Signora,  of  course!&quot;  cried  Vittoria.  &quot;I  have  lit  the  boiler.  Ah!  To  be  rested,  fed,  and  even  bathed!  If  I  were  rich  and  could  afford  the  fuel  ...&quot;  At  which,  if  Lydia  hadn't  sprung  into  her  flowered  bathrobe  and  scuttled  for  the  tub,  the  whole  monologue  would  have  started  again.  The  trick  is  not  to  talk  about  anything  that  she  can  link  up  with  money  or  happiness,  thought  Lydia,  because  she  is  certainly  a  woman  who  thinks  that  I  have  a  lot  more  of  both  than  she  has.  That  night,  there  was  such  a  tremen-  dous  storm  that  even  Lydia  woke  up  for  a  few  seconds.  Morning  brought  only  a  deluge  of  rain,  through  which  she  could  just  see,  on  the  next  house,  an  iron  gutter  spout,  cut  in  the  shape  of  a  dragon's  mouth,  spewing  away  the  roof  water  in  an  arching  cataract  that  fell  on  her  roof.  Lydia's  first  thought  was  that  Vittoria's  breakfast  mono-  logue  would  be  on  the  same  scale  as  the  dragon's,  and  just  as  depressing.  She  was  right.  When  Vittoria  appeared,  her  face  loomed  over  the  breakfast  tray  like  John  the  Baptist's  head.  Hatred  of  the  weath-  er  mixed  in  her  face  with  peasant  de-  spair;  her  indignant  sentences  ranged  wildly  from  the  harshness  of  Divine  Judgment  to  the  irreparable  split  in  her  umbrella.  Lydia  bore  it  stoically  for  minutes,  and  then  interjected  firmly,   &quot;Well,  one  thing's  definite,  Vittoria.  I  shall  stay  in  bed  until  the  rain  stops.&quot;  Lydia  had  hoped  that  the  effrontery  of  this  selfish  remark  would  takeVit-  toria's  breath  away,  and  so  gag  her.  For  an  instant,  it  did.  But  after  halting  in  mid-sentence,  her  mind  seeming  to  grapple  with  a  new  problem,  Vittoria  swept  up  to  Lydia's  bedside  as  if  toward  a  solution,  crying,  &quot;Poor  Signore!  Are  you  comfortable?  Reallycomfortable?  Oh,  Signora,  rest,  rest!&quot;  &quot;I'm  sure  you  need  a  rest,&quot;  replied  Lydia,  adding  as  firmly  as  she  could,  &quot;Poor  Vittoria!&quot;  'The  Signora  is  a  poor  lady,  because  she  is  so  tired,&quot;  said  Vittoria,  &quot;but  I  am  just  a  poor  woman.  For  poor  people  there  can  be  »o  rest.  There  is  always  something  that  must  be  done.  There  cannot  be  a  holiday.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  dear!&quot;  said  Lydia,  rather  dryly,  and  then,  all  at  once,  it  dawned  on  her  what  was  happening.  Too  poor  to  take  a  holiday  herself,  Vittoria  had  decided  to  take  Lydia's-or,  at  least,  to  make  Lydia  take  just  the  sort  of  holiday  Vit-  toria  would  like  to  take.  It  occurred  to  Lydia  that  the  longer  she  stayed  in  bed,  the  more  rested  Vittoria  would  feel.  This  thought  was  rather  frightening,  considering  what  a  very  long  time  Lydia  would  have  to  stay  in  bed  before  Vittoria  was  properly  rested.  EDIA  stayed  in  bed  all  day,  reading  Penguins  and  doing  her  nails.  This  pleased  Vittoria  enormously.  &quot;You  make  me  ashamed  of  my  ignorance  and  my  ugly  hands,&quot;  she  said  as  she  carried  off  the  lunch  tray.  By  evening,  Lydia  felt  despondent,  so  she  ate  her  bowl  of  spaghetti  with  neurotic  speed  and  let  Vittoria's  tongue  roam  at  will  into  the  detailed  drawbacks  of  poverty.  At  dawn,  the  water  was  fairly  bursting  the  drag-  on's  cheeks,  and  a  whole  section  of  the  bedroom  wall  facing  Lydia  began  a  steady  change  of  color  from  stale  cream  to  damp  chestnut.  &quot;Oh,  poor,  poor  Signora!&quot;  were  Vit-  toria's  first  words  at  breakfast  time,  but  she  added  at  once,  ''You  are  so  exhaust-  ed  that  this  confinement  will  be  a  bene-  fit.&quot;  &quot;It's  'poor  Vittoria'  who  needs  a  bit  of  benefit,  if  you  ask  me,&quot;  replied  Lydia  sourly.  Her  discourtesy  fairly  delighted  Vittoria,  who  beamed  at  her.  All  morning,  the  tall  wall  facing  Lydia  sopped  up  chestnut-colored  water  and  the  dragon  hurled  down  the  raw  material.  Lying  there  swaddled  like  an  Egyptian  mummy  in  the  attic  of  an  abandoned  museum,  Lydia  felt  so  miser-  able  that  she  started  to  cry.  When  she  had  had  her  cry  out,  she  resolved  to  get immediately,  whether  Vittoria  was  rested  or  not,.  But  no  sooner  had  her  warm  feet  touched  the  damp  floor  tiles  than  her  head  started  to  spin  and  her  stomach  gave  a  sombre  gurgle.  Lydia's  first  thought  was:  Indigestion-from  that  spaghetti.  Her  second:  Vittoria  must  not  know.  But  by  noon  the  first  thought  had  be-  come  so  self-evident  that  the  second  was  untenable.  &quot;Vittoria,&quot;  she  said  feebly,  &quot;I'm  sorry,  but  I  simply  can't  eat  any-  thing.&quot;  &quot;What!&quot;  exclaimed  Vittoria,  ex-  citedly,  &quot;is  the  poor  Signora  ill?&quot;  &quot;Not  really  ill,&quot;  said  Lydia,  reluctant  to  discuss  stomach  trouble  with  the  per-  son  who  had  provided  it.  &quot;I  just  have  a  slight  headache  and  a  dryness  of  the  throat.&quot;  It  was  only  a  moment  before  Vittoria  saw  what  must  be  done.  &quot;The  doctor!  I  shall  fetch  him  this  minute,&quot;  she  an-  nounced,  trembling  with  eagerness.  &quot;Ah!  How  often  I  have  wished  myself  rich  enough  to  see  a  doctor.&quot;  The  doctor  was  a  short  Latin  with  a  small  mustache.  Watched  closely  by  Vittoria,  he  did  to  Lydia  all  the  things  that  doctors  should  do  to  those  who  can  afford  them-temperature-  and  pulse-  taking,  chest-tapping,  even  questions  in  French.  At  last  he  said,  very  cheerfully,  &quot;Well,  the  poor  Signora  just  has  a  bad  stomach.  It  will  disappear,  with  starva-  tion  and  a  little  patience.&quot;  No  physician  ever  made  a  more  tact-  less  diagnosis.  'To  dismiss,  as  mere  belly-  ache  in  Lydia,  Vittoria's  whole  lifetime  of  unattended  illnesses,  and  then  to  rec-  ommend  starvation  as  the  best  cure-  the  affront  was  so  bitter  that  Vittoria  be-  came  hysterical.  &quot;What  about  the  best  available  medicines?&quot;  she  screamed.  &quot;Pooh!  Why  waste  money?&quot;  re-  plied  the  doctor,  laughing.  &quot;What?  Is  money  all  you  think  about?&quot;  cried  Vittoria.  &quot;The  poor  Si-  gnora  lies  suffering  and  exhausted  after  years  of  toil,  and  money  is  all  you  can  worry  about!&quot;  The  doctor,  offended,  replied  harshly  in  the  local  dialect;  Vittoria  retorted  like-  wise,  and  they  went  at  each  other  like  two  buzz  saws,  with  Lydia  as  their  log.  Soon,  the  doctor  surrendered  and  wrote  a  very  short  prescription.  &quot;When  do  you  come  again?&quot;  de-  manded  Vittoria,  pursuing  him  to  the  door.  &quot;Tomorrow,  if  it  amuses  you,&quot;  said  the  doctor.  &quot;And  she  must  stay  in  bed  mean-  while?&quot;  &quot;If  you  so  advise,&quot;  said  the  doctor.  Lydia  heard  them  squabbling  all  the  way   down  the  four  flights  of  stone  stairs  and  into  the  wet  street.  It  was  still  raining  when  the  doctor  came  next  morning,  but  even  while  he  sat  beside  Lydia,  a  lemon  glow  seeped  through  the  room  and  the  dragon  sub-  sided  into  drips.  The  doctor  pronounced  Lydia  much  better,  and  said  she  could  get  up,  provoking  an  awful  quarrel  with  Vittoria.  &quot;What  reputation  will  Italian  doctors  have  in  [REDACTED]  after  this?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;A  better  one,  doubtless,  than  Italian  cooks,&quot;  retorted  the  doctor.  ''The  crippled  Signora  will  decide  that  when  she  sees  the  bill  you  are  pre-  paring  for  her,&quot;  said  Vittoria,  shutting  one  eye  ominously.  «What  a  bad-tempered  lot  you  all  are  in  these  parts!&quot;  said  the  doctor,  picking  up  his  hat.  &quot;I  often  wish  I'd  never  left  Genoa.&quot;  They  squabbled  their  way  downstairs  again,  Vittoria  still  making  insulting  and  persistent  references  to  the  doctor's  bill,  as  if  Lydia's  health  turned  entirely  on  full  payment-and  the  greater  the  sum,  the  greater  Lydia's,  or,  at  least,  Vit-  toria's,  chances  of  complete  recovery.  Lydia  felt  close  to  collapse;  was  it  not  enough,  she  asked  herself,  to  give  Vittoria  all  her  holiday  without  being  obliged  to  remedy  all  Vittoria's  years  of  medical  neglect  as  well?  The  sun  was  sending  shafts  of  light  across  the  whole  bedroom.  Bracing  herself,  she  swung  out  of  bed  and  walked  to  the  window,  only  to  find  that  three  days  of  vicarious  recuperation  had  enfeebled  her  whole  system.  What's  more,  the  garden  ap-  peared  to  have  turned  snow  white-an  illusion  created  by  the  washerwomen.  Invading  the  garden  from  the  far  end,  they  had  laid  all  their  sheets  to  dry  on  kind  Signor  Steele's  grass  and  covered  his  stone  walls  with  petticoats  and  pil-  loweases.  Now  they  were  singing  as  they  bashed.  &quot;Signora!&quot;  Vittoria's  voice  was  trag-  ic  in  its  reproachfulness.  But  at  that  mo-     ment,  advancing  on  the  window,  she  saw  the  snowy  garden.  &quot;Do  you  see  that?&quot;  she  exclaimed.  &quot;Why,  yes,  Vittoria.  It's  only  wash-  ing,  isn't  it?&quot;  &quot;Only  washing!  Why,  it's  a  bare-  faced  actof  shameless  insolence!&quot;  &quot;But  they  are  only  poor  old  women,&quot;  said  Lydia  feebly.  &quot;'The  Signora  can't  tolerate  that  sort  of  thing!  She  must  order  them  out  im-  mediately!  Order,  Signora,  order!&quot;  And  Lydia,  crushed  by  Vittoria's  vig-  or,  found  herself  obeying.  'Take  that  away  at  once!&quot;  she  piped  through  the  window.  &quot;Ah,  now  that's  a  real  Signora!&quot;  cried  Vittoria  proudly,  and  sticking  out  her  head  until  it  was  on  a  line  with  the  dragon's  spout,  she  followed  Lydia's  squeak  with  a  stream  of  abusive  dialect.  The  poor  crones  hastened  into  the  garden,  all  lopsided  and  cackling  like  flabbergasted  crows;  wrapped  in  wet  sheets,  they  scurried  out  again,  &quot;And  the  pants  and  pillowcases!&quot;  screamed  Vit-  toria.  In  and  out  rushed  the  poor  crones  again,  and  Lydia,  as  she  stumbled  weak-  ly  back  to  bed,  had  just  wit  enough  to  understand  that  Vittoria,  immensely  re-  stored  by  Lydia's  rest  and  medical  at-  tention,  was  now  climbing  the  ladder  into  Lydia's  higher,  more  arrogant  class  as  well.  Vittoria  had  squeezed  the  bill  out  of  the  doctor,  and,  while  tucking  Lydia  up,  she  gave  it  excited  glances.  &quot;It  seems  very  reasonable,&quot;  said  Lydia,  showing  it  to  her.  &quot;Oh,  poor  Signora!l  You  call  thet  reasonable?&quot;  asked  Vittoria,  almost  spit,  ting  at  the  figures.  &quot;And  you,  perhaps,  at  death's  door?&quot;  &quot;Far  from  it,  Vittoria,&quot;  said  Lydia,  trying  feebly  to  recover  her  old  effi-  ciency.  But  Vittoria,  with  death's  door  now  open  before  her,  was  already  marching  through.  &quot;Death  is  a  funny  thing  in  this  town,&quot;&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It  is  one  thing  for  the  rich  and  another  for  the  poor.  When  people  like  me  have  to  be  buried,  the  bell  just  goes  ding-dong  and  the  procession  goes  the  shortest  way.  But  if  you  were  being  buried,  they'd  ding-dong  for  a  full  hour  and  we'd  have  to  follow  you  all  around  the  piazza.  &quot;Yes,&quot;  she  concluded,  as  she  strode  from  the  room,  &quot;even  death  is  a  pleasure  for  those  who  can  afford  it.&quot;  As  soon  as  Lydia  heard  the  last  of  Vit,  toria's  footsteps  going  up  the  street,  she  struggled  out  of  bed  and  began  to  pack.  On  the  kitchen  table  she  left  money  for  the  doctor's  bill  and  a  generous  amount     for  Vittoria,  with  a  note  saying  she'd  been  called  away  suddenly  and  a  thou-  sand  thanks  for  so  much  devotion.  Then,  stumbling,  dishevelled,  and  ter-  rified  of  being  caught  by  Vittoria,  she  made  for  the  main  road  by  a  back  way  full  of  filthy  cats,  melon  rinds,  and  ragged  children.  At  the  first  petrol  sta-  tion,  she  ordered  a  taxi  and  was  driven  to  the  railway.  EOPLE  had  told  Lydia  that  Pe-  rugia,  too,  was  a  rewarding  place  for  those  who  love  the  dark  glories  of  old  4974616c79.  But  an  inner  voice  told  her  she  would  be  much  safer  if  she  struck  north-  ward,  so  she  finished  her  vacation  in  [REDACTED],  where  the  natives  looked  prosperous  even  when  it  rained.  Back  in  [REDACTED],  still  puzzled  as  to  why  things  had  gone  so  badly  in  4974616c79,  she  confided  the  whole  dismal  story  to  Peter  Steele,  winding  up,  &quot;You  see,  Peter,  I  didn't  mind  resting  for  her,  paying  a  doctor's  bill  for  her,  even  driving  out  the  poor  for  her,  but  I  couldn't  face  being  buried  for  her.&quot;  Peter's  answer  showed,  unfortunate,  ly,  that  he  was  one  of  those  people  who  try  to  march  through  life  as  if  deaf  and  myopic  to  the  sufferings  of  others.  &quot;Do  tell  me  more,&quot;  he  said,  leaning  forward  anxiously,  &quot;about  the  damp  in  my  bed-  room.  Does  it  threaten  the  structure?&quot; 