 b"MAYBE  only  in  early  spring  are  M  you  apt  to  come  across  Prester  John  at  a  cocktail  party.  At  least,  I  went  to  one  not  long  ago,  and  there  he  was.  &quot;Prester  John  was  a  woman  pope,&quot;  a  young  man  said  to  a  girl.  &quot;Ninth  century.  They  hushed  it  up.&quot;  I  was  sure  that  he  was  wrong,  but  I  didn't  say  so.  All  around  him,  people  were  dropping  names  duller  than  Pres-  ter  John's.  The  young  man  opened  a  window  in  a  small  alcove  near  him  an  inch  or  two.  Puffs  of  a  breeze  blew  in,  troubling  the  smoke  and  conveying  a  sense  that  jonquil  spears  had  come  up  not  far  away.  After  all,  the  day  alone  was  enough  to  prompt  a  young  man  to  tell  a  girl  any  wonders  he  might  know.  And,  of  course,  he  was  only  putting  his  best  foot  forward.  Who  doesn't?  I  sometimes  catch  myself  at  it,  always  with  hurt  surprise,  and  once  you  start  to  notice  these  things,  you  find  it  hard  to  stop.  You  go  around  in  public,  and  there  is  your  own  best  foot,  inching,  inching.  There  is  everyone  else's,  too.  You  hear     names  dropping  like  fruit,  and  by  and  by  they  drop  from  you.  You  read  a  pro-  gram  note,  say,  and  then  you  can  and  do  disclose  the  number  of  Masses  the  elder  Scarlatti  wrote.  (Two  hundred.  A  decent  output.)  But  it  struck  me  that  the  young  man  was  also  up  to  something  else.  There  was  something  remote-an  absence,  girl  or  no  girl-in  his  manner  as  he  talked,  and  something  familiar,  too,  if  I  could  place  it.  He  and  the  girl  floated  off.  I  went  around  a  woman  whose  father  had  met  Winston  Church-  ill  in  1912,  and  stepped  into  the  alcove,  listening  to  the  old  bell  that  was  ringing  dimly  in  my  head.  I  thought  it  must  be  rung  by  someone  who  had  put  Ais  best  foot  forward,  and  I  thought  I  might  as  well  keep  mine  to  myself  for  a  while,  and  try  to  find  him.  So  I  went  hunting,  recalling  that  I  once  knew  a  boy  whose  best  foot  was  put  forward  by  proxy.  Ted  (his  name  was)and  his  friend  Bernard  came  from  the  same  [REDACTED]  town,  and  shared  an  apartment  in  Chelsea.  Bernard  had    a  mind  that  shot  to  and  fro  like  a  water  bug,  and  he  thought  that  he  ought  to  look  after  Ted  because  he  was  younger,  and  slow.  Deliberate.  A  research  chem-  ist.  'There  was  a  kind  of  youthful  catch-  as-catch-can  salon  swirling  around  Ber-  nard,  and  Ted  watched  it  with  suspicion  and  longing.  The  group  devoutly  prac-  ticed  agile  remarks  and  deadly  flip-  pancies,  and  now  and  then  Ted  would  nervously  burst  out  with  something  of  the  sort  himself.  &quot;Nothing  succeeds  like  success,&quot;  he  would  say  with  a  cyn-  ical  shrug,  or,  bracingly,  &quot;Worry  is  the  interest  paid  by  those  who  borrow  trou-  ble,&quot;  or,  when  he  felt  that  someone  had  scored,  &quot;Q-  E-  D!&quot;  Well,  Bernard  was  devoted  to  Ted  and  gen-  erous  to  a  fault,  and  he  began  to  di-  vide  his  own  remarks  between  them,  splitting  about  even.  Half  the  time,  when  he  thought  of  a  line  that  he  fig-  ured  was  really  bright,  he  would  start  it  off  with  &quot;Did  you  hear  what  Teddy  said  last  night?,&quot;  or  just  &quot;As  Teddy  puts  it  ...&quot;  And  when  Ted  was  there,  as  he  sometimes  was,  he  would  look  so  fussed  and  pleased  with  himself  that  I  am  sure  he  half  believed  that  he  had  said  it.  Respect  for  him  grew.  For  a  while,  he  tried  to  make  remarks  like  Bernard's  on  his  own-he  thought  he  should  pull  his  weight-but  thenhe  flagged.  The  burden  was  great.  He  married  a  girl  named  Alison,  and  got  himself  all  but  excommunicated  by  Bernard.  She,  too,  was  from  [REDACTED].  She  was  pretty  and  plump,  with  a  lazy  smile,  and  not  particularly  agile  in  any  way.  Ted  returned  gratefully  to  saying  &quot;Q-  E-  D!,&quot;  but  now  he  could  always  say  it  with  safety,  for  Alison  was  always  there-a  girl  who  was  able  to  speak  kindly,  smilingly,  of  Bernard,  to  Bernard's  repugnance,  as  just  a  sweet  old  nut  who  came  from  home.  IT  was  pleasant  (I  thought,  in  the  al-  cove)  to  have  had  a  minute  again  with  Ted  and  Alison  and  Bernard,  but  I  couldn't  say  that  any  of  them  was  the  person  I  was  looking  for,  and  I  went  on  back,  farther,  to  a  newly  married  magician  and  his  attendant  spirit,  whose  groceries  I  had  delivered  all  one  sum-  mer.  'They,  too,  had  put  their  best  foot  forward,  though  at  the  time  I  felt  that  they  were  doing  it  in  reverse.  Before  that  summer,  before  they  got  married,  I  had  seen  them  twice  on  the  stage-  once  in  the  nearby  city,  once  in  the  suburb  where  I  lived.  But  if  I  could  have  had  my  way,  I  would  have  gone  to  every  performance  and  followed  them  everywhere.  Not  that  I  was  taken  in  by  his  doves  and  rabbits  and  " b"scarves,  or  by  her  comings  and  goings  in  puffs  of  smoke.  I  liked  to  see  them  because  it  uplifted  me  to  be  in  the  neighborhood  of  such  people.  I  thought  he  was  superb-a  sort  of  Balkan  diplomat,  I  guess,  with  his  small  spade  beard  and  his  black  cape  lined  with  white.  She  was  blond  and  little,  with  dark  eyes.  She  wore  spangles  and  tights  airi-  ly,  calmly,  and  moved  with  precision,  though  as  if  she  were  in  a  dream.  She  seemed  absolutely  unreal  to  me--just  a  manifestation  of  grace-  and  yet,  there  she  was.  They  bought  a  brick  bungalow  on  a  shady,  rumpled  street  full  of  frame  houses  in  my  neighbor-  hood  the  summer  I  was  six-  teen.  I  was  taken  aback.  It  was  too  tangible  of  them;  they  didn't  belong  in  a  house,  even  an  odd  one.  Then  I  was  pleased,  for  I  saw  in  advance  all  the  lights  of  the  bungalow  glittering  late  through  our  placid  nights,  stepping  them  up.  Then  I  was  puzzled.  They  arrived  with  no  flash,  and  he  went  away  again  almost  at  once-to  work,  I  suppose,  without  her.  (But  how?  )  She  stayed,  polite  and  quiet,  always  wearing  a  flow-  ered  house  dress-one  of  the  hundreds  she  seemed  to  have  brought  with  her-and  a  big  apron.  I  had  a  vacation  job  delivering  groceries.  Hers  were  things  like  ground  round  steak  and  lettuce  and  soap.  Also  flour.  She  baked  a  good  deal,  and  sometimes  offered  me  a  cookie  or  a  piece  of  pie,  and  talked  for  a  minute  or  two  about  the  heat  and  the  prospect  of  rain.  That  was  all.  She  was  almost  always  polishing  when  I  got  there-  polishing  silver,  polishing  furniture  or  windows.  I  couldn't  make  her  out.  Neither  could  the  rest  of  the  neighbors.  The  women  called  on  her,  and  she  on  them-dressed  properly,  with  hat  and  gloves-and  that  was  that.  We  ex-  pected  something.  Her  husband  came  back  every  week  or  two  and  stayed  a  few  days.  He  went  off  each  morning,  like  the  other  men  on  the  street,  and  returned,  like  them,  at  night,  carrying  a  paper.  I  suppose  he  was  between  engagements  and  arranging  for  future  ones.  Years  later,  it  dawned  on  me  that  he  needn't  have  followed  the  neighborhood  ritual  so  faithfully  unless  he  wanted  to.  He  worked  in  his  yard  in  the  evenings  and  on  Satur-  days,  when  he  was  there,  wearing  a  straw  hat  and  duck  pants.  He  looked  wrong.  One  evening,  walking  by,  I  saw  that  he  had  shaved  his  beard  and  wore  only  a  small  mustache.  Perhaps  he  thought  that  would  make  him  look  more  local,  but  to  me  it  only  made  him  seem  stuckup.  Standoffish.  And  that  was  the  reputation  they  got,  by  the  end  of  the  summer,  though  nobody  ever  was  able  to  accuse  them  of  rudeness,  and  no  one  was  ever  in  the  least  rude  to  them.  They  stayed  about  a  year,  practicing  their  shy  magic-conjuring,  invoking  home-and  then  they  moved  away.  I  HAD  got  a  good  bit  closer  to  what  I  wanted  to  remember-the  magi-  cian  and  his  wife  had  a  part  in  it-  but  I  thought  I  oughtn't  to  stay  in  the  alcove  any  longer.  I  stepped  out  and  soon  was  wedged,  asI  often  am  at  par-  ties,  between  two  voluble  circles.  Both  groups  were  talking  travel.  (After  all,  there  was  spring  outside.)  &quot;Piraeus,&quot;  I  heard  on  my  left.  &quot;Salzburg.&quot;  &quot;Canter-  bury.&quot;  To  the  right,  a  man  I  knew  was  talking  about  [REDACTED],  where  he  had  spent  most  of  a  week.  He  was  conducting  a  short  walking  trip  from  his  hotel  to  the  Left  Bank,  and  I  judged  that  most  of  hiscircle  was  glad  to  follow  him.  &quot;Rue  St.-Honor\xc3\xa9  ...&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Rivoli...  Tuileries  ...  Louvre  .  ..  Pont  Neuf...&quot;  His  tone  was  offhand,  but  his  eyes  were  bright.  I  had  been  over  the  route  with  him  before,  in  conversation,  but  I  found  that  I  was  having  as  good  a  time  as  he  was.  Clearly  he  loved  the  sounds  of  the  names  that  he  was  dropping,  and  so  did  I.  In  fact,  I  was  thinking  that  I  might  edge  in  and  intone  some  good  Roman  names  (I  had  been  six  days  in  Rome),  when  I  realized  that  the  bell  I  had  been  " b"hearing  was  ringing  quite  near  at  hand.  Apparently  I  had  been  hunting  for  my-  self.  Twenty  years  ago  this  month,  I  went  down  to  [REDACTED]  for  a  weekend  visit  with  a  friend.  The  first  day,  we  had  lunch  in  a  small  caf\xc3\xa9-one  he  frequented.  Indeed,  as  the  afternoon  wore  on,  I  thought  it  might  be  his  office.  People  stopped  at  our  table,  spilled  the  real,  recondite  political  dope,  prophesied  brave  worlds,  and  went  on  to  other  tables  to  recharge.  All  of  them  were  young,  all-as  they  said-'&quot;in  govern-  ment,&quot;  and  prepared  to  remold  the  nation.  'They  spoke  companionably  of  austere  Departments.  They  Shiloh  and  had  told  me  what  went  on.  I  had  read  &quot;Leaves  of  Grass.&quot;  I  talked.  Carl  listened.  I  covered  a  lot  of  ground.  The  little  light-blue  clouds  drifted  out.  The  map  contracted.  Antietam,  then  Chickamauga,  stood  off  not  far  to  the  right.  [REDACTED]  crept  north.  I  gave  Carl  the  whole  war,  right  across  the  Potomac.  &quot;It  must  have  been  just  about  there,&quot;  I  told  him,  pointing  south,  &quot;that  Oliver  Wendell  Holmes,  Jr.,  said  to  a  civilian,  'Get  down,  you  damn  fool,  before  you  get  shot!'  It  was  Lincoln,  and-&quot;  That  was  back  that  way,&quot;  Carl  said,  pointing  north.  &quot;Early's  raid.  July  12,  1864.  They  got  up  said  &quot;State&quot;  and  &quot;War.&quot;  {}{  3)  into  [REDACTED]  and  circled  The  President  was  simply  R  /]  around.  Lincoln  went  out  to  &quot;he&quot;  to  them,  and  their  coffee  &lt;&lt;  Fort  Stevens  to  see.  Back  that  got  stale  while  they  went  from  chair  to  chair  con-  struing  portents.  They  were  putting  their  best  foot  for-  ward,  for  me  and  for  each  other,  and  I  knew  it.  But  I  felt  that  I  was  as  good  as  in  government  myself,  sitting  there,  dazzled,  with  them.  A  number  of  dazzling  hours  later,  my  friend-  Carl  was  his  name-and  I  were  alone  on  the  roof  of  his  apart-  ment  house.  The  talk  had  run  on  through  the  evening;  now  it  was  after  midnight.  In  front  of  and  below  us,  the  Potomac  was  quiet.  A  bridge  across  it  led  a  long  way  into  the  April  night,  and,  it  seemed,  a  long  way  into  [REDACTED].  Carl  was  speaking  of  a  project-a  sur-  vey  to  set  standards  for  the  manufacture  of  shoes-and  clearly  he  believed  that  the  future  of  the  Republic  hinged  on  there  being  no  nonsense  about  its  foot-  wear.  So  did  I,  fervently.  Still,  there  I  was,  silent  however  edified,  humming  with  national  destiny,  but  aching  for  a  project  of  my  own  to  tell  about.  Carl  talked  on,  smoking  his  pipe,  sending  light-blue  clouds  in  an  irregular  parade  toward  the  river  and  [REDACTED].  Well,  the  past  is  also  part  of  the  future.  The  columns  of  Lee's  houseshone  tiny  and  white,  southwest  in  the  lower  sky.  Manassas  was  just  down  the  road,  straight  ahead,  or  so  I  imagined.  And  it  was  no  trick  at  all  to  see  muskets  flash  in  the  wavering  dark  at  the  far  end  of  the  long  bridge.  So  I  changed  the  sub-  ject,  and  for  quite  a  while  it  was  I  who  talked,  making  a  project  of  the  old  War,  dropping  great  names,  showing  Carl  (and  his  friends)  a  thing  or  two.  There  on  the  roof,  my  credentials  seemed  good  enough.  I  owned  a  book  of  Mathew  Brady  photographs,  with  text.  My  grandfather  had  fought  at  way.  Fort  Stevens.&quot;  He  was  an  affable,  round  man,  hospitable,  consider-  ate-not  a  man  to  contra-  dict  his  guest  or  gratuitously  prick  a  bubble;  just  a  man  who  liked  to  keep  the  record  straight.  But  it  was  enough.  The  map  went  back  to  nor-  M  mal,  the  battlegrounds  reced-  ed,  the  watch  fires  in  the  Vir-  ginia  dews  and  damps  became  only  street  lights  again,  and  I  had  been  talking  through  my  hat  for  a  full  hour.  I  wondered  sadly  if  I  did  it  all  the  time.  S  I  say,  I  suppose  I  do;  people  do.  But  I  thought  there  must  be  more  to  it  than  that-there  must  have  been  more.  I  was  showing  off  to  Carl,  all  right,  but  he,  too,  had  seen  the  armies  and  the  battles  there  in  the  night  as,  right  or  wrong,  I  called  their  names.  We  stayed  out  on  the  roof  a  long  time-  until  dawn  came,  in  fact,  a  Confeder-  ate  gray-and  though,  looking  back,  I  couldn't  swear  that  we  spent  the  whole  time  talking  about  the  war,  it  was  around  us.  I  do  know  we  felt  porten-  tous,  with  the  sleeping  nation  at  our  feet,  and  since  it  was  dark  enough  on  the  roof  for  us  not  to  see  each  other  plainly,  we  said  words  that  we  wouldn't  have  spoken  so  easily  by  day;  we  mentioned  courage,  devotion,  faith,  perhaps  love,  too,  I  don't  know.  And  surely  Life.  One  word  leads  to  another.  I  squeezed  out  from  between  the  talking  travellers,  thanked  my  hostess,  worked  toward  the  door,  and  on  my  way  snatched  at  a  chance  to  remember  aloud,  after  all,  a  street  in  Rome.  When  you  go  around  dropping  names,  at  least  you  do  speak  them,  I  thought.  You  summon  what  they  mean;  you  conjure  with  them.  You  can  catcha  glimpse  of  faith  on  a  roof;  you  can  go  right  back  to  Piraeus  from  a  party.  For  when  you  put  your  best  foot  forward,  you  point  it  toward  what  you  want-good  shoes  for  all,  maybe,  or  the  alabaster  cities  that  gleam  beyond  the  years,  or  just  a  bright  house  in  a  green  yard  on  a  quiet  street.  H,  yes.  The  young  man.  Prester  John.  I  looked  up  Prester  John  when  I  got  home.  He  was  a  mythical  king  and  priest  in  Africa.  Twelfth  cen-  tury.  He  had  seventy  other  kings  for  vassals.  A  pope-male-sent  a  messen-  ger,  with  letters,  to  try  and  find  him.  The  messenger  vanished.  Pope  Joan  was  once  thought  to  have  been  a  pope  of  the  ninth  century.  She,  too,  is  mythi-  cal,  but  they  never  quite  hushed  her  up.  I  myself  had  always  thought  Prester  John  was  a  Tartar  bandit.  But  it  didn't  seem  to  matter  in  the  least  that  the  young  man  had  been  wrong.  He  had  brought  spring,  a  fabu-  lous  name,  lost  time,  and  a  woman  pope  into  an  otherwise  wintry  room.  I  only  hoped  the  girl  appreciated  him.  And  as  for  his  manner,  his  abstraction  as  he  talked,  I  suppose  he  was  just  listening  (as  one  does  when  one  conjures)  to  himself  saying  the  necessary  words. "