 b"MANY  foreigners,  hankering  M  after  a  deeper  understanding  of  the  United  [REDACTED]  and  per-  haps  unable,  for  one  reason  or  another,  to  get  there,  read  histories  of  the  coun-  try  or  the  novels  of  J.  P.  Marquand  or  William  Faulkner.  The  very  earnest  and  affluent  may  even  have  a  go  at  Gal-  braith.  The  trouble  with  such  sources,  excellent  enough  in  their  way,  is  that  the  accounts  they  give  are  all  to  some  extent  colored-by  the  personal  inter-  ests  and  predilections  of  their  authors,  by  national  sentiment,  by  the  require-  ments  of  the  story  or  theme,  by  the  nar-  rowness,  in  some  cases,  of  the  sectionof  life  chosen  for  examination.  You  do  not  feel  you  are  getting  [REDACTED]  in  the  raw,  in  all  its  heaving,  polymorphous  reality.  There  is  one  book,  however-far  too  little  known  outside  556e6974656420537461746573n  drug-  stores-that  lays  the  country  bare,  in  all  its  rich  complexity,  before  the  eyes  of  the  foreign  student.  Being  an  Eng-  lishman,  I  only  came  upon  it  recently,  although  I  understand  itis  a  best-seller.  It  is  &quot;Your  Income  Tax,&quot;  by  J.  K.  Lasser.  There  is  no  sentiment  about  Mr.  Lasser.  He  deals  in  facts.  &quot;A  hus-  band  and  wife  filing  a  joint  return  are  a  single  unit&quot;  is  the  nearest  he  comes  to  romanticism.  A  wholesomely  realistic  attitude  to  life  informs  such  passages  as  &quot;You  get  a  full  $600  exemption  for  the  year  even  if  the  child  is  born  on  De-  cember  31.  But  a  stillborn  child  cannot  be  a  dependent.  The  exemption  is  al-  lowed  only  for  a  child  that  has  been  born  alive  if  but  for  a  moment.&quot;  No  personal  predilections,  no  narrowness  of  vision  blur  the  outlines  of  the  picture  he  draws  of  a  whole  civilization  in  ac-  tion.  Acrobats  (who  are  entitled  to  de-  duct  the  expenses  of  physical  training)  are  neither  more  nor  less  the  object  of  his  passionless  regard  than,  say,  a  son  who  &quot;secures  his  father's  placement  in  a  religious  home  for  a  lump-  sum  payment  of  $9,600.&quot;  Here,  as  in  no  other  work  I  know,  the  bare  bones  of  a  whole  subcontinent-its  strengths  and  weaknesses,  its  social  habits,  its  mores-lie  open  to  the  reader's  critical  eye.  I  cannot  yet  claim  to  have  read,  much  less  digested,  the     ience  and  brevity,  but  not,  I  think,  mis-  represented-that  caught  my  foreign-  er's  eye  on  a  first  flick  through:  ...  you  get  a  further  exemption  if  you  or  your  wife  are  over  65  or  if  your  visual  acuity,  though  exceeding  20/200  in  the  better  eve  with  correcting  lenses,  is  ac-  companied  by  a  limitation  in  the  fields  of  vision  such  that  the  widest  diameter  of  the  visual  field  subtendsan  angle  no  greater  than  20  degrees.  Expenses  are  deductible  for  meat  cut-  ters'  special  white  shoes.  Even  on  a  joint  return  you  get  no  ex-  emption  for  supporting  your  wife's  aunt's  husband.  You  can  not  deduct  as  medical  expenses:  Toothpaste  Wigs  Illegal  operations  Cost  of  bottled  water  to  avoid  drink-  ing  fluorinated  city  water  Swimming  pools  The  cost  of  cakes  provided  for  bazaars  can  be  deducted  as  a  charitable  contribu-  tion.  Baby-sitters'  fees  can  be  counted  as  sup-  port  contributions,  but  &quot;donors  who  give  blood  to  charities  cannot  deduct  the  fair  market  value  of  the  blood.&quot;  &quot;Electing  to  avoid  gains  sometimes  does  not  pay&quot;  (J.  K.  Lasser's  italics).  You  may  deduct:  Hurricane  losses  Damage  to  tropical  plants  Breeding  fees  and  bad  debts  Losses  due  to  termites  or  volcanic  eruptions  Cost  of  theatrical  wigs  Bonds  bought  after  1957  whose  first  call  date  falls  within  three  years  of  the  purchase  date  are  amortized  to  maturity.  If  a  widow  remarries,  she  can  be  an  ex-  emption  on  the  deceased  husband's  return  and  on  her  present  husband's  return.  &quot;To  secure  this  double  credit  the  widow  should  have  no  income  and  not  be  an  exemption  of  anyone  save  both  husbands&quot;  (i.e.,  if  I  fol-  low  Mr.  Lasser  correctly,  she  should  not  simultaneously  be,  e.g.,  the  dependent  grandmother  or  cousin  of  some  third  party).  Don't  forget  to  deduct  lobbying  costs,  jockey's  uniforms,  egg  crates,  fan-mail     whole  of  Mr.  Lasser's  thor-  y)   oughgoing  tax  guide,  but  here  are  a  few  further  items-  paraphrased,  even  telescoped  here  and  there  for  convencosts,  worthless  securities,  watch-repair  costs  (if  your  work  makes  it  necessary  to  know  the  time).  Do  not  deduct  fictitious  sales,  graft  pay-  ments.  sewer  taxes,  or  gradual  sinking  of  farms.  There  is  enough  here,  I  believe,  to  indicate  the  riches  available  to  a  patient  inquirer  who  wants  to  hear  the  genuine  heartbeat  of  [REDACTED].  Marquand  at  his  most  illuminating  never  limned  so  es-  sentially  556e6974656420537461746573n  a  character  as  Mr.  Lasser's  Smith  ({14.07  in  my  1960  edition  ),  who,  with  a  taxed  income  of  $180,000,  saves  himself  a  clear  four  dollars  by  donating  a  hundred  dollars'  worth  of  securities  to  charity.  What  of  the  over-all  picture  that  emerges  of  life  in  those  United  [REDACTED]?  On  the  whole,  I  find  it  reassuring,  even  though  there  are  dark  patches.  Far  too  many  556e6974656420537461746573ns  have  been  putting  their  graft  payments  down  as  business  expenses.  It  is  difficult  to  contemplate  with  entire  satisfaction  a  country  where  widows  remarry  in  a  hurry  to  secure  a  &quot;double  credit&quot;  and  where  sons  shuffle  their  fathers  off  into  religious  homes  for  a  mere  $9,600.  But  no  nation  is  per-  fect,  and  you  have  to  look  at  both  sides  of  the  picture.  Mr.  Lasser  knows  that  [REDACTED]  is  not  entirely  populated  by  the  kind  of  people  who  try  to  sneak  the  cost  of  bottled  water  into  their  returns;  itis  implicit  in  his  book  that  there  are  millions  of  simple,  homely  folk,  too,  who  would  ruin  themselves,  but  for  his  timely  warnings,  by  including  in  their  gross  income  such  items  as  dam-  ages  resulting  from  breach-of-promise  lawsuits,  compensation  for  loss  of  life,  and  hams  given  away  by  employers  at  Christmas.  It  is  no  calculating,  money-  mad  people  that  peers  out  at  us  from  these  two  hundred-odd  closely  packed  pages.  LL  the  same,  I  believe  that  &quot;'Your  Income  Tax&quot;  could  be  widely  disseminated  abroad  without  seriously  undermining  the  immigration  policyof  a  country  that  has  been  plagued  in  recent  years  by  too  many  foreigners  wanting  to  come  and  live  in  it.  I  see  no  risk,  if  Mr.  Lasser's  book  were  given  wider  circulation  abroad,  of  a  fresh  rush  of  would-be  immi-  grants  to  [REDACTED].  On  the  contrary,  I  believe  [REDACTED]  con-  suls  overseas  (whose  constant  concern,  as  every  applicant  for  a  visa  knows,  is  to  in-  sure  that  visitors  to  the  [REDACTED]  will  enjoy  their  stay  and  then  get  to  hell  out  of  it  again)  would  be  well  advised  to     " b"scatter  J.  K.  Lasser  pretty  freely  around  their  embassy  waiting  rooms.  It  would  be  a  bold  man  who  would  still  seek  his  fortune  in  the  United  [REDACTED]  once  he  had  grasped  the  com-  plexity  of  the  arrange-  ments  he  would  have  to  make  in  order  to  keep  some  portion  of  it  from  the  Treasury  Depart-  ment.  Speaking  for  my-  self,  I  just  have  not  the  qualifications  or  the  stamina  required  to  se-  cure  the  maximum  le-  gal  deductions  and  ex-  emptions  or  to  argue  the  case  effectively  with  the  authorities.  A  kind  of  strong,  intensely  stay-  at-home  shudder  comes  over  me  when  I  con-  template  the  sort  of  let-  ter  I  might  find  myself  writing,  with  J.  K.  Lasser  propped  up  in  front  of  me,  in  or  about  my  second  year  of  residence:  Commissioner  of  Internal  Revenue,  Sir:  I  regret  the  delay  in  filing  the  en-  closed  return,  but  the  fact  is  that  the  sixty-five-year-old  widow  I  married  last  year  (down  in  [REDACTED],  if  you  remem-  ber,  where  she  helped  me  to  &quot;consum-  mate&quot;-if  I  may  borrow  a  word  from  J.  K.  Lasser-my  business  plans)  gave  birth  to  a  beautiful  exemption  on  De-  cember  31st,  of  all  days,  just  when  I  had  my  hands  full  turning  her  aunt's  husband  out  of  the  house  as  a  non-de-  ductible  dependent,  and  in  hurrying  off  to  make  sure  thatthe  child  lived  long  enough  to  qualify,  I  inadvertently  dam-  aged  some  tropical  plantsthat  had  been  carelessly  left  in  the  front  hall  at  an  angle  greatly  exceeding  ten  degrees  from  the  center  of  my  field  of  vision.  Calculation  of  the  loss  naturally  held  me  up,  which  explains  why  I  was  running  too  fast  down  the  drive  of  my  non-hobby  farm  to  save  myself  from  slipping  into  a  sudden  subsidence  (of  volcanic  origin,  I  believe)  and  suffering  injuries  as  shown  on  page  2  of  Form  1040-an  accident  that  would  never  have  happened,  so  I  am  assured  by  one  of  the  dependent  cousins  we  have  here,  had  I  been  wear-  ing  the  meat  cutter's  white  shoes  that  I  have  since  bought  as  being  essential  to  my  business.  We  were  all  at  sixes  and  sevens  after  this  mishap,  coming  on  top  of  my  wife's  prenatal  expenses,  so  that  it  was  late  March  before  I  could  get  round  to  totting  up  the  cost  of  cakes sent  to  bazaars  during  the  festive  sea-  son,  and  I  have  only  just  caught  up  with  my  amortization,  the  weather  being  so  unsettled  and  everything.  Even  so,  I  might  have  been  on  time  with  this  return  had  it  not  happened  that,  while  I  was  checking  to  see  whether  there  was  any  profitable  way  of  electing  to  avoid  gains,  the  legs  of  my  desk  collapsed  through  the  depredations  of  termites,  and  in  the  resulting  confu-  sion  my  tax  guide  flipped  over  to  a  section  that  had  previously  escaped  my  notice-viz.,  depreciation  of  furniture  used  in  entertaining.  This  opened  up  an  entirely  new  world  to  me.  Did  you  know  that  &quot;a  recent  case  allowed  a  tax-  payer  to  depreciate  furnishings  bought  for  a  rumpus  room  used  in  entertaining  business  customers  and  employees&quot;?  We  have  no  rumpus  room  here,  being  new  to  the  country,  and,  anyway,  the  sort  of  business  customers  who  drop  in  will  rumpus  anywhere,  say  what  we  will.  The  whole  house  is  our  oyster,  you  might  say,  depreciationwise.  You  ought  to  see  the  dining-room  table  after  Pargeter  has  finished  drawing  plans  for  improvements-called  &quot;repairs&quot;  and  therefore  deductible-to  my  pigsties  on  it.  That  reminds  me  to  mention  that  there  was  one  hell  of  a  destructive  party  here  on  New  Year's  Eve,  including  cigar  burns  on  my  dependent  stepson's  deductible  jockey's  uniform  (he  weighs  ninety-eight  pounds)  and  dirty  foot-  marks  on  the  billiard  table,  all  of  which  I  shall  have  to  carry  forward  to  next  tax  year,  having  no  further  room  on  the  form.  So  you  see  how  itis!  With  the  best  will  in  the  world,  a  fairly  recent  immigrant  cannot  absolutely  guarantee  to  have  his  return  filed  right  bang  on  the  due  date.  The  wig  claimed  for  onpage2  was  blown  off  in  a  hurricane.  Do  I  get  double  credit  for  this'?  Also,  can  I  claim  the  time  spent  skimming  through  J.  K.  Lasser  as  a  deductible  expense  at,  say,  half  the  current  rate  for  baby-sit-  ters  per  hour?  If  so,  it  may  turn  out  that  you  owe  me.  Yours  to  maturity, "