 b"IDA  was  supposed  to  be  having  her nap,  but  when  she  heard  a  horse  and  cart  coming  down  the  street  she  got  off  the  bed  and  climbed  on  the  window  seat  to  look  out.  The  milkman  came  in  the  morning,  and  it  was  too  early  in  the  afternoon  for  the  baker;  a  cart  at  this  hour  could  only  mean  a  hawker-and,  sure  enough,  it  was  a  man  selling  clothes  props.  The  decrepit  cart  was  laden  with  saplings  of  eucalyptus,  roughly  stripped  and  forked  at  one  end.  &quot;Props  for  fourpence.&quot;  The  horse  dawdled  down  the  road,  pausing  at  each  gate.  &quot;Props  for  fourpence.&quot;  Nothing  moved  in  the  street,  not  even  a  dog.  The  day  was  hot  and  very  dry.  The  prim  gardens,  the  lank  gum  trees  were  deaf,  motionless.  &quot;Props  for  fourpence.&quot;  The  cry  was  growing  fainter.  The  child,  bored,  went  back  to  fetch  a  paint  book  and  her  doll,  Rosie,  from  the  crumpled  pink  coverlet.  Return-  ing  to  the  window,  she  took  up  a  crayon  and  dida  little  more  work  on  a  house  she  had  been  drawing.  She  added  a  plume  of  smoke  to  the  chimney,  be-   cause,  although  she  could  not  remember  ever  having  seen  a  smoking  chimney,  her  picture  books  were  full  of  them.  Here  in  [REDACTED],  it  seemed  to  have  been  summer  all  her  life-breathless,  burning  days  of  drought.  The  pictures  of  smoking  chimneys  were  like  the  snow  scenes  that  arrived  on  cards  from  Eng-  land  each  year  during  the  Christmas  heat  wave-brief  representations  of  that  other,  authoritative  world  where  seasons  were  reversed  (it  was  implied,  correctly),  and  where  children  wore  gaiters  and  mufflers  and  lived  indoors.  The  front  garden,  which  the  win-  dow  overlooked,  was  on  the  shady  side  of  the  house,  but  even  there  the  soft  turf  had  died  in  the  drought  and  been  re-  placed  by  crisp,  resistant  buffalo  grass,  which  also  grew  on  the  more  exposed  sides  ofthe  house.  The  steps  were  bor-  dered  with  pink  and  blue  hydrangeas,  and  with  beds  of  fuchsia  and  daphne.  Palm  trees  stood  on  the  lawn.  At  the  end  of  the  short  drive  were  red  hibiscus  and  trees  of  wattle  and  frangipani.  At  the  side,  a  wall  covered  with  wilted   Dorothy  Perkins  roses  separated  this  house  from  the  Armstrongs'.  Some-  times  the  Armstrong  boys,  Rex  and  Leslie,  came  to  play.  Rexwas  eleven  and  enormous,  and  quickly  got  bored  with  Ida  because  she  was  so  little.  He  wore  gray  knickerbockers,  and  a  blazer  with  a  crest,  and  a  straw  boater  circled  by  a  broad,  striped  ribbon.  The  Arm-  strongs  had  kept  Rex  in  a  good  school-  &quot;in  spite  of  everything.&quot;  The  Arm-  strongs  had  lost  all  their  money.  It  was  1935,  and  Ida  was  four  years  old.  She  would  have  liked  to  go  into  the  garden,  but  her  mother  would  be  an-  noyed  if  she  didn't  sleep,  and  in  any  case  the  back  of  the  house  was  more  amusing.  'Theback  garden  was  huge,  andhad  beds  of  flowers  and  vegetables  and  an  orchard.  A  swing  had  been  built  in  the  orchard,  and  if  you  were  swung  high  enoughyou  could  touch  the  mandarin  trees  by  extending  your  feet.  Beyond  the  orchard  was  a  field  of  high  grass  forbidden  to  children  be-  cause  of  snakes.  'The  snakes  occasional-  ly  came  into  the  garden  and  had  to  be  killed  with  a  heavy  stick  that  was  kept  in  the  garage  for  the  purpose.  The  grass  of  the  field  was  cut  down  from  time  to  time  by  1  Alfic,  the  man  who  did  \\  the  garden,  and  lost  crick-  et  balls  would  turn  up  then,  or  an  old  kite,  or  singed  rocket  butts  left  over  from  Empire  Night.  f  The  grass  was  never  burned  off  now,  because  of  the  danger  of  fire.  Even  the  orchard  and  the  garden  had  their  perils.  There  were  bees  in  the  grove  of  Buddleia.  In  the  mornings,  kookaburras  perched  on  the  lowest  branches  of  the  trees,  look-  ing  for  lizards  or  worms,  and  would  burst  out  laugh-  ing  right  over  your  head.  And  there  was  a  gray  goanna,  like  a  short,  thick  snake,  harmless  but  hor-  rible,  that  came  to  the  kitchen  door  tobe  fed  by  the  maid,  Marge,  with  .  raw  eggs.  -  The  perils  of  the  back  A  garden  were  so  attractive  that  Ida  turned  her  back  on  the  window  and  slid  down  from  the  wood-  en  seat.  Taking  Rosie  up  by  one  china  arm,  she  made  her  way  out  of  the     " b"room.  The  hallway  was  dark-blinds  were  drawn  and  doors  closed  at  this  time  of  day-  and  she  descended  the  stairs  carefully,  grasp-  ing  the  rods  of  the  ban-  ister  with  her  free  hand.  From  the  footof  the  steps,  she  went  through  to  the  back  of  thehouse,  where  a  screen  door  opened  from  her  fa-  ther's  study  onto  a  glassed-in  veranda.  It  was  hot  on  the  veranda,  but  there  sat  her  mother,  in  a  blue  dress,  sewing.  Her  mother,  who  was  dark  and  beautiful  and  very  loving,  had  strong,  im-  patient  opinions,  and  a  quick  temper  that  flared  without  warning  and  was  felt  through  the  house.  Ida  was  both  afraid  to  be  out  of  her  sight  and  afraid  of  mak-  ing  her  angry,  and  she  creaked  the  screen  door  open  and  looked  cau-  tiously  around  it.  But  her  mother  just  smiled  and  let  her  come  and  sit  on  the  polished  floor  beside  her  and  play  with  the  colored  silks  and  reels  of  cotton  in  the  quilted  box.  Ida  lined  them  up  in  their  varying  sizes  and  then  in  their  different  shades,  and  when  she  tired  of  that  she  simply  sat  leaning  against  her  mother's  leg,  rubbing  with  one  finger  the  round  button  on  the  high-heeled  shoe.  The  sun  burned  on  them  through  the  glass;  her  mother  came  here  to  sew  because  of  the  light,  but  she  hated  the  heat,  Ida  knew.  She  couldn't  breathe,  she  said,  until  the  southerly  started  to  blow  in  the  evening-the  cool  south  wind  that  reached  Sydney  from  the  sea.  She  couldn't  bear  to  see  the  garden  wither  in  the  drought.  One  evening,  she  went  out  and  watered  the  lawn,  al-  though  that  was  prohibited  because  of  the  water  shortage,  and  a  passerby,  see-  ing  her  with  the  hose,  had  shouted  that  he  would  report  her  to  the  City  Council.  Her  mother  threw  down  the  hose  in  a  fury,  and  came  inside  and  said  she  was  sick  of  the  drought  and  the  depression.  When  Marge  told  her  it  would  get  cooler  soon,  in  May,  she  just  shook  her  head  and  said  she  was  homesick.  On     the  study  wall  there  was  a  photograph  of  a  girl  in  a  fur  coat  standing  in  snow,  like  the  Christmas  cards.  JOCK,  the  Airedale,  who  was  nosing  about  in  the  field,  suddenly  began  to  bark  and  came  running  up  through  the  orchard.  The  abrupt  activity  shook  the  trees,  or  so  it  seemed,  and  sharpened  the  light.  The  shoe  button  shifted  out  from  under  Ida's  finger  as  her  mother  rose  to  look  through  the  glass  of  the  veranda.  A  woman  had  come  round  the  cor-  ner  of  the  house  and  was  walking  very  slowly  toward  the  back  door.  She  was  dressed  in  black  and  carried  a  large,  square  hessian  bag  that  flapped,  almost  empty,  against  her  thigh.  Her  slow,  slow  walk  carried  her  past  the  flowers  and  the  vegetables  and  the  barking  dog,  but  she  didn't  look  about  her.  By  her  face  and  her  figure  she  was  not  old,  but  her  walk  was  old.  Her  feet  moved  pain-  fully  on  the  smooth  flagstone  path.  The  uneven  hem  of  her  dress  reached,  in  some  places,  almost  to  her  ankles.  She  wore  a  round  hat  of  black  felt,  crammed  down  on  her  head.  The  kitchen  door  opened  as  she  reached  it,  and  Marge  looked  out.  The  dog  slipped  inside,  still  barking  in  little  short  puffs.  The  woman  spoke,  not  ac-  centuating  her  words  with  any  move-  ment,  clasping  the  thick  loops  of  the  bag  against  her  hip.  Marge-short,  plump,  and  fair-came  out  onto  the  step  and  closed  the  door  behind  her  be-  cause  of  the  flies.  The  voices  came  indistinctly  through  the  hot  glass  of  the  veranda.  In  a  moment,  Marge  opened  the  door  again  and  both  women  disappeared  into  the  house.  Ida  and  her  mother  had  moved  away  from  the  windows;  they  heard  Marge's  step  before  they  could  sit  down  again.  Marge  appeared  on  the  veranda,  " b"her  face  creased  and  uneasy.  Ida  knew,  before  she  spoke,  that  her  voice  would  be  lowered.  It  was  so  low,  in  fact,  that  the  child  could  scarcely  hear.  &quot;Walking  all  day,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;poor  soul  ...  this  heat  ..  .  she's  looking  for  work&quot;  and  &quot;.  ..  children  ...&quot;  Ida's  mother  stuck  the  needle  into  the  sewing  in  her  hand  and  put  it  down  on  the  chair.  Her  face,  too,  was  troubled.  She  went  inside,  through  the  study  and  into  the  hall,  with  Marge  and  Ida  fol-  lowing,  and  down  the  corridor  to  the  kitchen.  The  woman  was  standing  by  the  kitchen  table,  still  holding  her  bag.  She  looked  austerely  at  the  group  in  the  doorway.  The  skin  of  her  face  and  arms  was  brown  and  dry,  but  she  had  young  features  and,  under  the  battered  hat,  limp,  dark  hair.  She  didn't  speak,  but  sat  at  the  table  when  she  was  asked,  and  drank  a  glass  of  lemonade  straight  down  without  stopping.  When  she  had  done  that,  she  seemed  to  sag  in  her  chair;  she  propped  her  elbow  on  the  table  and  her  brow  on  her  hand,  and  closed  her  eyes.  At  the  sink,  the  two  women  were  slicing  and  spreading,  and  Marge  had  brought  a  jug  of  milk  from  the  ice  chest.  Ida  stretched  her  own  elbow  onto  the  table's  edge,  staring  and  wishing  that  the  woman  in  black  had  not  come.  Her  arrival  had  turned  everyone  silent  and  queer,  and  she  did  not  look  at  Ida  or  speak  to  her,  as  women  usually  did,  but  sat  there,  almost  lifeless,  with  the  brim  of  her  ugly  hat  lowered  over  her  hand.  After  a  moment,  the  child  drew  away  and  sat  down  on  a  box  of  groceries  that  had  been  delivered  that  day  from  An-  thony  Hordern's.  Beside  the  groceries,  Alfie  had  placed  a  shined  pair  of  her  father's  shoes,  and,  putting  Rosie  down,  she  picked  up  one  shoe  and  began  to  play  with  the  laces.  The  heavy  shoe  slipped  between  her  knees  and  distended  the  floral  lap  of  her  dress,  but  she  pre-  tended  to  be  intent  on  it,  hoping  that  when  she  looked  up  the  woman  would  be  preparing  to  leave.  Instead,  her  mother  was  putting  plates  on  the  table  and  a  glass  of  milk,  and  the  bowl  of  fruit  from  the  dining  room.  No  one  paid  any  attention  to  Ida,  even  though  she  had  dirtied  her  dress  with  the  shoe,  which  she  now  tum-  bled  back  onto  the  floor.  The  woman  began  to  eat  from  a  plate  of  cold  meat,  with  sharp  motions  of  her  fork  and  knife,  She  showed  no  sign  of  going  away.  Marge  was  making  the  strong  tea,  dark  and  bitter  even  when  it  had  milk  in  it,  that  they  had  every  afternoon,  and  a  cup  and  saucer  had  been  set  on  the  table.  Ida  saw  with  relief  that  her  mother's  tea  tray  had  also  been  laid-the  tray with  willow-pattern  china  and  a  plate  of  Arnott's  biscuits  that  was  carried  to  the  back  veranda  every  afternoon.  When  the  tea  was  ready,  her  mother  filled  the  cup  on  the  table  and  her  own  cup  on  the  tray.  In  an  undertone,  she  asked  Marge  to  fetch  some  tinned  food  from  the  basement.  Then  she  picked  up  the  tray  herself  and  went  out  of  the  kitchen  so  quickly  that  Ida,  who  was  afraidof  being  left  with  the  woman  at  the  table,  jumped  up  and  scuttled  out  after  her.  The  dog,  stretched  out  on  a  patch  of  uncarpeted  floor  in  the  study,  scrambled   to  his  feet  as  they  passed  through,  and  pattered  onto  the  veranda.  He  and  Ida  were  allowed  one  biscuit  each  from  the  tea  tray-which  always  meant  one  more.  Ida  took  up  her  position  by  her  mother's  chair,  wondering  if  the  ritual  would  restore  their  afternoon.  But  her  mother  was  not  thinking  of  her;she  was  frowning  over  the  dishes  on  the  lit-  tle  cane  table  at  her  side.  When  Ida  looked  at  her,  she  handed  her  a  biscuit  absent-mindedly,  and  broke  one  in  half  for  Jock,  and  sighed.  HE  mother  and  child  might  have  been  sheltering  there,  they  were  so  still,  when  the  kitchen  door  clanged  at  last  and  the  slow,  flat  steps  sounded  on  the  path.  The  steps  grew  fainter,  until  they  could  not  be  heard  at  all,  and  Idathought  that  her  mother  would  smile  now  and  give  her  the  second  biscuit.  Even  Marge  was  relieved,  it  seemed,  singing  in  the  kitchen  a  song  she  would  not  ordinarily  have  chosen:  &quot;K-K-K-Katy.&quot;  She  sang  this  only  when  she  was  unnerved,  because  it  was  disrespectful;  Kate  was  the  name  of  Ida's  mother.  &quot;...  the  only  g-g-g-girl  adore,&quot;  Marge  sang.  Ida  looked  warily  at  her  mother,  who  smiled  at  last-almost  with  com-  plicity-and  reached  toward  the  plate.  The  singing  suddenly  broke  off.  &quot;Oh!&quot;  said  Marge.  &quot;Oh,  Madam!&quot;  As  her  mother  started  up,  Ida  had  that  I  " b"once  more  the  impression  that  the  light  changed.  There  was  barely  time  to  reach  the  doorway  before  Marge  ap-  peared  there.  &quot;Oh,  Madam,  please  come!&quot;  she  was  saying.  &quot;That  woman  ...&quot;  and  they  all  hurried  after  her  into  the  house.  The  kitchen  was  orderly,  the  table  cleared,  instead  of  the  scene  of  carnage  Ida  expected.  You  wouldn't  have  known  the  woman  had  been  there.  But  where  the  shoes  had  lain,  and  the  doll,  there  was  nothing  at  all-just  the  shiny  green  speckles  of  the  linoleum.  &quot;Rosie!&quot;  Ida  howled  in  rage  and  horror.  &quot;Rosie!&quot;  Rosie,  at  that  mo-  ment,  was  shuddering  along  Woollahra  Road  in  a  hessian  bag,  jostled  bya  pair  of  shoes.  Appalled,  the  child  flung  her-  self  round  to  be  comforted,  and  as  she  did  so  it  occurred  to  her  that  now  her  mother  would  get  really,  terribly  an-  gry-even  worse  than  over  the  business  of  the  hose,  angrier  than  Ida  herself.  But  her  mother  seated  herself  at  the  table,  where  the  strange  woman  had  sat,  and  lowered  her  brow  on  her  propped  hand.  She  did  not  utter  a  word. "