 b"THE  air  in  the  hallway  was  heavy  with  furniture  wax.  It  attacked  Xavier  Dunn's  eyes  when  he  opened  the  frontdoor,  making  him  see  more  clearly  the  shine  of  everything.  Then  he  took  in  the  sharp  smell.  Clos-  ing  the  door  behind  him,  he  pulled  off  his  coat  and  hung  it  carelessly  on  the  tall  hatrack  just  inside  the  door.  When  he  removed  his  hat  he  ran  a  hand  across  his  dark  hair,  which  was  shaggy  at  the  base  of  the  neck,  and  rather  heavy  there  compared  with  the  crown,  where  a  small  coin  of  scalp  was  plainly  visible.  &quot;Is  that  you,  Xave?&quot;  Edwina  Dunn  came  to  the  top  of  the  stairs  and  looked  over  the  railing.  The  sleeves  of  her  rose-colored  dressing  gown  were  rolled  above  the  elbow,  and  from  there  to  the  wrist  her  bare  arms  were  wet  and  feathered  lightly  with  soapsuds.  He  turned,  calling  up  in  a  teasing  way,  &quot;It's  Xavier,  all  right.  The  real  thing.&quot;  Her  hair  was  newly  waved  and  stiff,  and  even  a  flight  away  Xavier  could  see  the  bright-pink  cleanness  of  her  skin  and,  where  her  chest  showed  at  the  throat  of  the  gown,  a  white  shadow  of  talcum  powder.  &quot;I  thought  you  were  going  to  try  and  get  off  early  tonight,&quot;  she  said.  He  had  forgotten.  He  was  always  forgetting.  Finding  no  softness,  no  vul-  nerable  spot  to  which  he  might  admit  his  own  weakness,  Xavier  said  instead,  &quot;Something  came  up.&quot;  'The  harsh  scent  of  carnation  tale  dropped  down  to  him  through  the  immaculate  air.  Dimin-  ished  by  the  distance  between  them  and  by  the  lie  she  had  made  him  tell,  he  added,  &quot;Is  there  anything  I  can  do?&quot;  &quot;Not  right  now.  I'm  bathing  the  children.&quot;  Behind  her,  as  though  to  bear  witness  to  her  (as  though  she  needed  that),  a  bar  of  soap  was  dropped  into  the  water  with  a  hard,  scooping  noise.  Edwina's  eyes  recorded  that  sound  and  the  cries  coming  with  it.  &quot;I  wish  you'd  hurry,  though-now  that  you're  home,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  boys  will  be  here  any  minute.&quot;  She  left  him  then.  Xavier  went  over  to  the  hatrack  and  began  going  through  his  coat  pockets,  listening  for  the  opening  and  closing  of  the  bathroom  door.  Instead  of  that,  he  heard  one  of  the  children  calling  him.  &quot;Poppy!  Poppy!&quot;  The  voice  came  near-  er  with  each  cry.  &quot;Poppy!&quot;  Somebody  had  got  away.  &quot;Come  back  here,  Kathleen,&quot;  Ed-  wina  called  from  the  bathroom.  So  it  was  the  baby.  As  Xavier  brought  out  a  tarnished  silver  tobacco  box,  he  looked  around  and  saw  the  little  girl  coming  down  to  him.  &quot;Well,  I'll  be  switched!&quot;  he  cried,  directing  the  full  force  of  his  boyishness  at  her.  &quot;Where  did  yow  come  from?&quot;  He  fished  a  charred  briar  from  the  pocket  and  be-  gan  to  fill  it  as  she  made  her  way  down-  stairs.  He  did  not  go  to  meet  her.  When  she  had  safely  gained  the  last  step,  Kathleen  jumped  down  and  ran  to  Xavier,  flinging  herself  at  him.  &quot;Anything  for  me?&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;Any  Chiclets?  Any  Life  Savers?!&quot;     &quot;Oh,&quot;  Xavier  groaned.  &quot;Oh,  apple  dumpling,  you  know  you're  too  strong  for  me.  You're  knocking  your  poor  old  Daddy  down.  Oh,  peach  pie!  Oh,  little  bread  pudding!&quot;  He  staggered  backward  and  bumped  against  the  hat-  rack;  it  fell  over,  dragging  an  empty  umbrella  stand  with  it.  &quot;Kathleen!&quot;  came  the  cry  from  the  top  floor.  &quot;Now  see  what  you've  done,  dump-  ling,&quot;  Xavier  said.  &quot;Made  me  knock  down  the  hatrack.  You'd  better  be  get-  ting  upstairs  again  or  you  won't  be  ready  to  meet  the  boys.&quot;  &quot;What  boys?&quot;  she  asked.  &quot;Why,&quot;  Xavier  said,  remembering  then  that  this  was  not  what  the  child  called  his  friends,  that  he,  in  fact,  did  not  usually  refer  to  them  this  way,  &quot;Father  Phil.  And  Father  Frank,  and  the  others.&quot;  Smiling,  relieved,  Kathleen  said,  &quot;You  mean  the  priests!&quot;  ACH  year,  Xavier  and  Edwina  Dunn  gave  a  dinner  party  for  a  few  of  the  fellows  Xavier  had  gone  to  school  with.  It  sometimes  seemed  that  Edwina  enjoyed  the  evening  more  than  Xavier  did,  but  this  was  not  quite  true.  He  looked  forward  to  the  reunion.  It  had  gradually  become  the  only  time  during  the  year  that  he  and  his  old  friends  were  all  together,  for  they  had  been  scattered  over  the  Archdiocese  of  New  York,  and  Xavier  himself  lived  out  on  the  edge  of  Queens,  almost  into  Nassau  County.  If  he  appeared  less  at  ease  than  his  wife,  it  was  only  because  his  relationship  with  them  had  undergone  a  trans-  formation  that  hers  had  not.  While  these  men  had  completed  six  years  at  the  Seminary,  Xavier  had  dropped  out  after  the  third.  During  the  sum-  mer  vacation  before  his  last  year,  he  had  met  Ed-  wina,  and  while  his  class  had  gone  on  to  take  Holy  Orders,  Xavier  had,  in-  stead,  taken  a  wife.  The  vocation  was  readily  enough  replaced  for  him,  although  the  friends  he  had  made  at  the  Semi-  narynever  were.  Edwina  al  ways  planned  the  reunion  as  a  formal  evening.  &quot;Re-  member,  now,  it's  a  black-tie  affair,&quot;  she  would  say  to  each  of  the  priests,  in  gentle  and  un-  accustomed  mockery  of  " b"their  calling.  &quot;I  don't  want  anyone  turning  up  in  a  Roman  collar.&quot;  Xavier  felt  that  this  formality  was  not  so  much  to  please  his  friends  as  to  assure  herself  that  she  had  given  her  very  best  to  the  Church-her  best  linen  and  silver  and  china-and  he  was  part-  ly  right.  She  was  thinking  of  the  priests  more  as  the  agents  of  Christ  they  were  than  as  her  husband's  former  class-  mates,  which  was,  of  course,  how  he  thought  of  them,  and  so  it  didn't  occur  to  her  that  they  might  have  preferred  an  easier  evening,.  Xavier,  for  his  part,  had  never  mentioned  this  to  her,  for  he  knew  that  if  she  paid  any  heed  to  such  a  suggestion  it  would  have  been  to  take  it  as  disparaging  to  either  her  house-  keeping  or  the  sovereignty  of  the  Church.  He  considered  it  more  likely,  though,  that  she  wouldn't  have  given  it  that  much  thought,  not  because  she  re-  jected  his  knowledge  of  the  clergy  but  because  she  had  no  need  for  recourse  to  it.  Her  brother  had  been  a  priest-a  missionary,  who  died  of  malaria  just  be-  fore  the  outbreak  of  the  Second  World  War.  Each  year,  the  reunion  had  a  differ-  ent  theme.  On  the  first  occasion,  it  had  been  a  winter  carnival,  and  after  that  there  were,  among  others,  an  Irish  motif,  a  seaside  one,  and-Edwina's  favorite-the  Mardi  Gras.  This  year,  Father  Paul  O'Hare  was  leaving  soon  to  take  up  an  administrative  post  in  Rome,  and  in  his  honor  Edwina  had  called  the  reunion  the  Roman  Holiday.  Xavier  restoredthe  hall  to  order  and  shook  some  more  tobacco  into  the  bow!  of  his  pipe,  tamping  it  down  carefully  but,  all  the  same,  spilling  some  on  the     carpet.  He  would  just  have  a  quick  smoke,  he  decided,  and  a  look  at  the  paper.  There  was  plenty  of  time  to  get  dressed.  And  even  if  there  weren't,  what  difference  did  it  make?  Only  the  fellows  from  St.  Bart's  were  coming.  He  lit  the  pipe  and  walked  down  the  hall  into  the  living  room,  where,  a  rosary  in  one  hand  and  a  prayer  book  in  the  other,  his  mother-in-law  sat  wait-  ing  for  the  evening  to  start.  She  wore  a  black  lace  dinner  gown  and  long  black  silk  gloves.  An  amethyst  lavaliere  hung  from  a  fine  gold  chain  around  her  throat,  and  there  was  a  touch  of  lipstick  on  her  mouth,  faint  but  obtrusive.  &quot;Xavier,&quot;  she  called  agreeably.  &quot;With  that  terrible  pipe  smell,  could  it  be  anyone  else!&quot;  The  house  and  its  furniture  had  be-  longed  to  her,  but  although  she  gave  it  all  to  Xavier  and  Edwina  when  they  were  married,  and  always  said  now  that  she  lived  with  them,  she  had  about  her  the  air  of  a  custodian,  as  though  it  had  been  the  principle,  not  the  feeling  of  generosity,  that  prompted  that  old  gift.  However,  in  spite  of  this  impedi-  ment,  she  and  Xavier  got  on  well-bet-  ter  even  than  Edwina  and  her  mother  did.  Mrs.  Conlan  thought  of  Xavier  as  another  son,  and  sons  were  to  her  a  form  of  wealth.  As  for  Xavier,  he  found  it  easy  to  get  along  with  most  people,  and  with  those  rare  persons  whom  he  did  not  care  for  hemaintained  an  affability  that  was  always  taken  for  friendship.  He  was  never  able  to  sus-  tain  a  strenuous  dislike.  &quot;Mind  the  ashes,&quot;  Mrs.  Conlan  said  now,.  &quot;Everything's  fresh  clean.&quot;  &quot;Right,&quot;  Xavier  said.  &quot;The  ashes.&quot;  39       S1eiNRERCG  He  sat  down  and,  opening  his  news-  paper  with  a  slap  at  the  center,  turned  to  the  sports  page.  After  a  moment,  Mrs.  Conlan  re-  marked,  &quot;Well,  it  will  soon  be  time  for  theold  baseball,  won't  it?&quot;  &quot;It  will,&quot;  Xavier  answered.  &quot;Spring  training  is  almost  here.  Then  after  that,  I  suppose  we'll  be  fighting  all  the  time  for  who's  to  have  the  television.&quot;  &quot;Not  with  me,  Xavier.  There's  very  little  I  look  at  on  that  machine-you  know  that  yourself.  Trash  is  all  they  offer  you.&quot;  &quot;You're  right,&quot;  Xavier  said,  trying  to  read  and  at  the  same  time  keep  an  ear  with  her.  &quot;I  was  watching  the  U.N.  today,&quot;  theold  woman  continued.  &quot;What  with  the  antics  of  those  Russians,  the  world  is  ina  terrible  condition.&quot;  &quot;They're  no  good,&quot;  Xavier  agreed.  He  always  tried  not  to  be  ledinto  any-  thing  more  than  superficial  talk  with  Mrs.  Conlan.  She  knew  well  enough  what  men  liked  to  discuss  but  she  had  very  little  information  on  those  subjects.  &quot;Do  you  know,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;all  the  while  the  Frenchman  was  talking,  that  Russian  devil  sat  scratching  his  ear,  as  though  he  didn't  care  what  they  said,  because  it  wouldn't  make  a  bit  of  differ-  ence.&quot;  She  shook  her  hand  and  a  spray  of  holy  cards  fell  from  her  prayer  book  to  the  floor.  Xavier  got  up  and  re-  trieved  them.  &quot;'That's  the  boy,&quot;  Mrs  Conlan  said,  stuffing  the  cards  into  the  back  of  the  book  as  he  handed  them  to  her.  &quot;'You've  got  to  be  tough  with  those  people,&quot;  she  went  on  quickly.  &quot;'That's  the  only  thing  they  understand.&quot;  &quot;That's  true,&quot;  Xavier  said,  settling  " b"down  once  more.  &quot;You  can't  go  easy  on  them.&quot;  Mrs.  Conlan  was  silent  for  a  time;  then  she  spoke  again,  thoughtfully.  &quot;I  always  regretted  your  not  keeping  on  with  the  law,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  ought  to  have  gone  into  the  government,  Xavier.  It's  men  like  you  we  need  now.&quot;  Xavier  was  an  insurance  salesman.  At  one  time  he  had  thought  of  entering  politics.  After  he  left  the  Seminary,  he  worked  his  way  through  law  school  and  passed  the  bar  exam,  but  he  never  prac-  ticed  law  or  tried  to  run  for  any  office.  A  brief  membership  in  one  of  the  local  political  clubs  had  disillusioned  him-he  couldn't  stand  all  the  catering  to  bosses  and  the  crookedness  of  the  machine.  Besides,  there  had  been  a  baby  soon  after  his  marriage,  and  then  another,  and  an-  other.  It  would  have  been  years  before  he  made  his  mark-a  long  hard  pull,  with  a  goal  that  was,  at  best,  risky.  And  so  he  quit,  although  the  interest  stayed  on  with  him  and  he  often  thought  that  had  he  gone  ahead  he  might  have  got  as  far  as  state  senator.  When  he  thought  the  matter  over  in  his  mind,  however,  he  still  felt  that  his  was  the  honorable  course.  He  never  read  of  the  activities  of  statesmen  and  government  officials  without  being  mindful  of  what  was  in  back  of  it  all.  &quot;It's  a  dirty  business,  Mother,&quot;  he  said  now.  &quot;A  dirty  busi-  ness.&quot;  Mrs.  Conlan  went  back  to  her  prayers,  and  Xavier  read  on.  When  the  door  opened  a  little  later,  they  were  both  startled  and  turned  around  with  guilty  looks-Xavier  should  have  been  almost  dressed  and  Mrs.  Conlan  should  have  reminded  him-but  it  was  only  Joan,  Xavier's  eldest  girl,  who  was  ten.  &quot;Mommy  said  to  tell  you  they'll  be  here  any  minute,&quot;  Joan  said.  &quot;So  they  will,&quot;  Xavier  answered.  &quot;I'd  better  be  getting  a  move  on,  don't  you  think?&quot;  He  never  knew  what  tack  to  take  with  Joan;  she  was  a  very  seri-  ous  girl  and  he  often  felt  that  she  disapproved  of  his  jokes.  Reluctantly,  missingalready  the  slow,  comfortable  ordinary  evening  that  he  would  not  be  having,  he  stood  up,  stretched  briefly,  and  left  the  living  room.  Out  in  the  hall,  Edwina  brushed  by  him.  &quot;I  put  out  your  blue  suit,  Xave,&quot;  she  said  nervously.  &quot;There  was  a  stain  on  the  lapel  of  your  dinner  jacket.  And  please  hurry,&quot;  she  added.  &quot;You'll  have  to  see  to  the  boys  when  they  get  here.  I've  got  the  dinner  to  look  after,  and  the  children  as  well.&quot;  As  she  passed  him,  Xavier  took  her  arm,  justat  the  elbow,  where  the  sleeve  of  her  bright-blue  dress  ended.  His  gesture  was  rough  and  his  fingers pressed  too  hard  into  her  soft  skin.  He  didn't  know  the  way  to  touch  people.  &quot;There's  not  that  much  of  a  rush,&quot;  he  said,  holding  to  her.  The  doorbell  rang.  &quot;There!&quot;  she  cried.  &quot;They're  here,  and  you're  not  even  started  yet!&quot;  &quot;What  difference  does  it  make?&quot;  Xavier  let  her  go.  &quot;They  wouldn't  care  if  we  never  ate!&quot;  he  said,  and  went  on  upstairs.  There  was  some  difference,  though.  He  knew  that  well  enough.  FATH  Er  Jack  DownInc  arrived  first,  with  a  package  of  music  under  his  arm.  (It  was  always  expected  at  the  reunion  that  he  would  sing  a  few  numbers  and  that  Edwina  would  ac-  company  him  at  the  piano.)  &quot;Father  Jack!&quot;  Edwina  cried.  Her  tenseness  burst,  becoming  the  welcome.  &quot;And  you  brought  your  music!&quot;  The  priest  took  off  his  hat,  exposing  the  dome  of  his  thick,  bald  head-gen-  erous,  striking,  Byzantine  in  its  effect.  He  smiled  self-consciously  and  let  her  take  the  manila  portfolio  with  his  coat  and  hat,  as  though  he  shouldn't  have  brought  it-as  though  he  didn't  bring  it  and  give  it  up  in  just  this  apologetic  fashion  year  after  year.  Before  they  could  go  inside,  the  door-  bell  rang  again.  It  was  Father  Phil  Boylan,  a  great  joker,  and  Father  Frank  Devlin,  the  scholar  of  the  group.  They  always  came  together.  &quot;Well,  Jack,&quot;  said  Father  Phil.  &quot;I  hope  you  brought  your  music.  It  wouldn't  do  to  have  the  year  go  by  without  you  and  'The  Rose  of  Tralee.&quot;  &quot;  Father  Jack  rubbed  his  hand  over  his  endless  shining  forehead  and  laughed.  Father  Frank  Devlin  with  a  gentle  smile  said,  &quot;It's  good  of  you  to  put  up  with  us  again,  Edwina.&quot;  &quot;How  could  it  be  putting  up  with  you  when  I  love  you  all?&quot;  she  told  him.  Father  Frank  was  her  favorite  of  them  all,  as  he  was  the  great  favorite  almost  anywhere  he  went.  His  quiet,  peaceful  manners  concealed  a  tough  spirit,  and  yet,  while  he  was  far  from  the  mild  man  he  seemed,  he  never  offended  anyone.  Just  as  they  were  about  to  move  off  to  the  living  room,  Monsignor  Jim  Cos-  tigan  arrived,  sobering  them  a  bit  and  tempering  the  high  spirits  that  had  been  passing  among  them.  Each  year,  he  " b"came  to  the  reunion  with  some  new  point  of  prestige  to  make  him  even  more  brisk  and  confident,  and  although  the  other  priests  did  not  become,  exactly,  stiff  in  his  presence-they  knew  each  other  too  well  and  too  long  for  that-  still  it  was  apparent  that  he  made  them  more  conscious  of  themselves  and  their  sanctified  state  of  life.  His  was  the  rich-  est  parish  in  the  diocese-he  had  made  it  so-and  now  it  was  rumored  that  he  was  up  for  Bishop.  Edwina  brought  them  down  the  hall  and  into  the  living  room.  When  Mrs.  Conlan  saw  them,  she  start-  ed  to  get  up,  but  Father  Frank  Devlin  said,  &quot;Don't  get  up  now,  Mrs.  Conlan.  We'll  pay  our  respects  this  way.&quot;  &quot;I'm  the  one  ought  to  be  paying  the  respects,&quot;  she  said  without  a  great  deal  of  conviction.  She  fell  back  easily  enough  as  the  priests  gathered  around  to  take  her  hand.  Just  as  they  were  settled,  Father  Paul  O'Hare  arrived,  and  it  was  Xavier,  just  dressed  and  tying  his  tie,  who  let  the  guest  of  honor  in.  &quot;Well,  Xave,&quot;  Father  Paul  said  as  he  gave  up  his  overcoat,  &quot;we've  let  an-  other  year  get  away.&quot;  His  face  shone  with  a  grace  that  suggested  good  health  more  than  holiness.  He  had  a  high  color,  and  his  hair,  white  since  he  was  twenty-  eight,  was  still  that  same  bright  white,  and  thick  as  well,  so  that  in  the  end  the  white  hair  made  him  seem  always  young  instead  of  old  before  his  time.  He  followed  Xavier  down  the  hall,  rubbing  his  hands  together  and  breathing  hard,  and  when  he  entered  the  living  room  a  companionable  cheer  came  from  the  other  priests.  With  his  good  humor  and  intelligence  he  was  the  favorite  among  themselves.  &quot;Father  Paul!&quot;  Edwina  cried.  As  she  came  toward  him,  the  patterns  in  the  watered  silk  of  her  dress  shifted  41  re  nii  ias     softly,  shimmering.  She  held  his  hands  for  a  moment  (she  never  kissed  the  boys),  and  then  said  to  Xavier,  &quot;We've  time  for  a  drink  and  then  dinner  will  be  ready-if  that's  all  right  with  every-  one,&quot;  she  added,  turning  to  the  rest.  &quot;Fine,&quot;  all  of  them  said,  almost  to-  gether,  in  a  sputtering  sound.  Accus-  tomed  as  they  were  to  being  deferred  to,  that  deference  rested  easily  with  none  of  them.  They  were  vigorous  men,  less  like  priests  than  athletes-runners  or  boxers  or  swimmers-with,  always  in  reserve,  even  greater  stores  of  vitality  than  were  already  apparent.  &quot;W  it  be?&quot;  Xavier  asked  them.  &quot;A  little  whiskey-and-soda?  Just  the  plain?&quot;  When  he  was  younger,  Xavier  always  had  his  whiskey  with  ginger  ale,  but  now  he  seldom  mixed  it.  &quot;I'd  like  mine  with  ginger  ale,  if  you  have  it,&quot;  Father  Jack  said.  &quot;Soda  for  me,&quot;  Father  Phil  said,  " b" and  Father  Frank  Devlin  said,  &quot;I'll  have  the  same.&quot;  &quot;'The  plain  will  do  me,&quot;  the  Mon-  signor  said.  &quot;And  the  dear  departing?&quot;  Xavier  turned  to  Father  Paul.  &quot;'Nothing  at  all,  thanks,  Xave,&quot;  Father  Paul  answered,  holding  up  his  hand.  &quot;What  does  that  mean?&quot;  Xavier  cried.  &quot;Isn't  my  whiskey  good  enough  for  you?&quot;  The  priest  laughed.  &quot;I  haven't  had  a  drink  forthe  last  six  months.  It's  my  blood  pressure.  I  can't  touch  the  stuff.&quot;  He  spoke  without  regret,  as  though  his  priestly  life  had  taught  him  to  take  up  all  such  pleasures  lightly  and  as  lightly  relinquish  them.  &quot;Could  we  give  you  a  glass  of  ginger  ale?&quot;  Edwina  asked,  her  voice  full  of  approval.  &quot;Ginger  ale  would  be  grand,&quot;  Father  Paul  told  her.  &quot;Well,&quot;  Xavier  said,  &quot;I  never  thought  I'd  see  the  day  when  Paul  O'Hare  was  turning  down  good  whis-  key  for  soda  pop!&quot;  The  gibe  did  not  touch  Father  Paul.  Intact  behind  his  Roman  collar,  he  laughed  again  and  said,  &quot;Gone  from  bad  to  worse,  eh,  Edwina?&quot;  Xavier  went  out  to  the  kitchen  and  fixed  the  drinks,  making  his  own  just  a  little  stronger  than  the  rest.  It  was  go-  ing  to  be  a  long  night;  he  felt  that  al-  ready.  He  gave  each  glassful  a  vigor-  ous  stir,  splashing  some  of  the  drink  up     the  sides,  and  then  he  picked  up  the  tray  and  went  out  into  the  passageway.  As  he  approached  the  living  room  he  could  hear  that  familiar,  soft  voice,  so  accus-  tomed  to  taking  the  lead.  &quot;...and  when  I  attended  the  clos-  ing  of  the  Holy  Door  in  1950,  I  rode  all  the  way  over  and  all  through  Europe  in  a  party  with  Archbishop  Donnelley  of  [REDACTED].  Would  you  know  the  Archbishop,  any  of  you?  ...&quot;  Mrs.  Conlan  had  got  hold  of  the  conversation.  IN  some  ways,  the  Roman  Holiday  had  proved  an  easy  theme  to  work  with,  but,  at  the  same  time,  the  decora-  tions  had  been  a  challenge  to  Edwina.  It  was  almost  too  easy.  For  a  start,  there  had  been  the  two  lithographs,  the  one  of  the  Forum  and  the  other  of  the  Colosseum,  that  had  been  in  the  dining  room  since  she  was  no  bigger  than  her  own  Kathleen,  She  moved  these  to  a  more  prominent  posi-  tion  behind  the  foot  of  the  table.  For  a  centerpiece,  she  arranged  stalks  of  ar-  tificial  wheat  and  some  uncooked  spa-  ghetti  around  the  base  of  her  large  cut-  glass  bowl  and  then  filled  the  bowl  with  fruit.  She  had  painted  Roman  stripes  in  water  colors  along  the  borders  of  plain  place  cards  and  fastened  them  to  small  wax  acolytes  that  were  really  can-  dles  but  served  her  purposes  very  well,  she  thought.  And  between  the  light  fixture  in  the  center  of  the  ceiling  and  the  molding  around  the  edge  she  had   attached  streamers  Roman-striped,  too-  which  made  a  tentlike  effect  over  the  table,  where  all  her  treasures  were  glittering  now.  &quot;It's  so  good  it's  al-  most  Sacrilegious,&quot;  Fa-  ther  Phil  Boylan  said  when  they  saw  what  she  had  made  of  the  dining  room  this  time.  &quot;All  that's  wanting  is  the  Holy  Father  done  in  spun  sugar.&quot;  All  the  priests  laughed,  deep  in  their  great  chests,  and  as  she  left  to  go  out  to  the  kitchen  Edwina  cried,  &quot;Go  away  with  you,  Father  Phil.  It's  no  way  near  what  I  had  in  mind.&quot;  &quot;It  was  the  last  Pope  was  the  true  saint,&quot;  Mrs.  Conlan  remarked  when  they  had  said  grace  and  sat  down.  The  two  older  girls  were  coming  and  going  with  the  soup,  and  as  Ellen  passed  Xavier,  he  leaned  over  and  pinched  her,  making  her  cry  out.  &quot;He  was  the  one,&quot;  Mrs.  Conlan  went  on,  taking  no  notice  of  the  distraction,  &quot;that  I  saw  in  a  private  audience  in  '48,  when  he  gave  me  his  full  blessing,  and  only  six  others  in  the  room.&quot;  That  was  the  way  it  went,  Xavier  thought,  more  bored  than  annoyed.  She  would  tell  them  about  the  closing  of  the  Holy  Door,and  after  that  it  would  be  the  Eucharistic  Congress  in  Dublin  in  '32,  and  then  there  was  the  trip  to  496e646961  when  she  had  visited  her  son,  the  missionary,  and  travelled  over  parts  ofthe  route  of  St.  Francis  Xavier  (said  with  a  nod  and  a  smile  at  him).  They  all  had  heard  the  stories  many  times  before.  Even  the  fellows  had  heard  them;  but  they  could  be  counted  on  not  to  let  on.  The  fellows  were  used  to  not  letting  on.  As  for  himself-well,  after  all,  he  lived  here,  and  besides,  there  was  the  prospect  of  the  dinner  ahead.  Edwina  had  bought  a  piece  of  beefthe  day  before  and  had  showed  it  to  him  at  breakfast  that  morning.  It  was  a  fine  six-rib  roast.  For  the  time  being,  he  would  put  his  mind  to  that,  and  per-  haps  later  on  they  would  have  the  chance  to  be  themselves-to  get  up  the  kind  of  argument  they  were  always  having  in  theold  days.  It  turned  out,  however,  that  Edwina  had  prepared  a  Roman  meal.  After  the  thick  soup  (Xavier  never  took  soup),  " b" the  girls  brought  around  individual  dishes  of  spaghetti  instead  of  the  roasted  potatoes  he'd  expected;  instead  of  a  vegetable  there  was  salad.  Then,  when  he  had  carved  and  passed  the  great  slabs  of  rib  roast,  he  discovered  with  out-  rage,  as  he  bit  into  his  own  large  slice,  that  there  was  garlic  in  it.  Xavier  was  a  fussy  eater,  and  often  when  she  was  serving  company  something  he  did  not  like  Edwina  would  prepare  separate  dishes  for  him,  but  tonight  she  hadn't  done  this.  Directing  a  long  look  of  dis-  gust  at  her  now,  Xavier  pushed  the  meat  to  one  side  of  the  plate  and  sat  back  in  his  chair,  but  Edwina  ignored  his  dark  stare  and  kept  her  eyes  on  her  mother.  &quot;Did  I  ever  tell  you  about  the  time  I  was  at  Lourdes?&quot;  Mrs.  Conlan  was  saying.  &quot;There  was  a  little  girl  there  whose  spine  was  broken  and  twisted&quot;-  she  held  up  a  finger  hooked  over-'&quot;as  crooked  as  this.  ...&quot;  The  child  had  been  cured.  She  had  seen  it  herself,  been  one  of  the  witnesses-the  key  witness,  she  would  have  them  believe,  without  ac-  tually  saying  so.  Listening  to  the  exaggerations  and  absurd  pretensions  of  Mrs.  Conlan's  talk,  Xavier  couldn't  keep  his  face  sullen  for  long.  He  had  to  laugh,  really,  or  else  throw  something  at  her,  and  he  couldn't  do  either  one,  and  so  instead  he  looked  across  the  table  and  winked  quickly,  expertly,  at  Ellen,  his  great  pal.  She  looked  away,  fixing  her  eyes  on  her  plate.  I  shouldn't  have  pinched  her,  Xavier  thought.  She  doesn't  like  to  be  pinched.  For  dessert,  there  was  Italian  ice  cream  with  nuts  on  top,  served  in  paper  cups.  Xavier  scraped  off  the  nuts  and  ate  the  ice  cream,  buthe  took  only  one  sip  of  coffee  and  then  left  the  rest.  It  was  very  bitter.  &amp;  ILL  you  giveusa  song,  Ed-  wina?&quot;  asked  Father  Jack  Downing,  when  they  had  retired  to  the  living  room.  &quot;I  will,  if  you  will,&quot;  she  answered.  For  both  of  them  this  was  the  best  mo-  ment  of  the  evening;  both  loved  music,  and  one  always  recommended  the  other  so  that  neither  would  seem  to  push.  In  his  thin  tenor-thinner  than  it  used  to  be  and  tremulous  now  on  the  high  notes-Father  Jack  sang  &quot;Passing  By&quot;  and  &quot;The  World  Is  Waiting  for  the  Sunrise,&quot;  and  after  that  Edwina  played  &quot;The  Rustles  of  Spring.&quot;  Her  style  was  at  once  timid  and  precise,  and  its  most  prominent  feature  was  the  tem-  po,  in  whose  interest  she  sacrificed  those  occasional  notes  that  her  technique  could  not  accommodate  to  the  time.  &quot;What  about  the  little  girls?&quot;  Father  Frank  Devlin  asked  when  she  finished.  &quot;Couldn't  they  sing  a  number  for  us?&quot;  The  children  looked  around  uncom-  fortably,  avoiding  all  eyes.  &quot;They  could,  of  course,&quot;  Edwina  said,  &quot;and  I'm  sure  they'd  be  delighted.  Come,  now-Ellen,  Kathleen-won't  youdo  'When  Irish  Eyes  Are  Smiling  for  the  Fathers?&quot;  Little  Kathleen  was  very  shy.  She  sat  back  in  the  corner  of  the  sofa  and  said  nothing  until  finally  Edwina,  clapping  her  hands,  said,  &quot;That's  enough  now!  Up  you  go!&quot;  Even  then  she  had  to  be  led  to  the  piano  where,  holding  on  to  each  other  for  comfort,  their  voices  scarcely  audible  above  the  accompani-  ment,  the  two  sisters  sang.  When  they  finished  there  was  great  applause,  and  then  Joan  was  asked  to  do  some-  thing.  With  her  long  curls  swinging  around  her  shoulders,  Joan  did  a  tap  dance  to  &quot;She's  the  Daughter  of  Rosie  O'Grady,&quot;  moving  daintily  across  the  narrow  portion  of  the  floor  that  wasn't  carpeted.  There  was  a  look  of  discom-  fort  on  Mrs.  Conlan's  face  during  this  performance;  she  preferred  the  singing,  for  the  tap-dancing  scratched  the  floor.    When  Joan  finished  her  dance,  there  was  great  applause  again,  and  then  Mrs.  Conlan  leaned  forward  in  her  chair.  &quot;Now,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I've  only  one  re-  quest,  and  then  I  won't  say  another  word  the  rest  of  the  evening.&quot;  A  mur-  mur  passed  over  the  room--a  protest,  but  then  again,  not  a  protest  at  all.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  won't  open  my  mouth  after  this,  but  first  'd  like  to  ask  Edwina  if  she'd  play  the  'Meditation'  from  'Thais.?  &quot;  Everyone  applauded,  and  Edwina  swung  around  on  the  piano  stool  to  face  the  room.  The  &quot;Meditation&quot;  was  a  dramatic  piece  which  she  narrated  as  she  played.  It  always  struck  Xavier  as  a  silly  number,  and,  in  any  case,  was  not  the  sort  of  thing  he  enjoyed.  He  liked  the  popular  songs.  &quot;Well,&quot;  Edwina  began,  &quot;first  here's  the  story.  It's  about  a  young  monk  named  Athana\xc3\xa9l,  who  has  spent  his  youth  in  riotous  living.  Athana\xc3\xa9l  de-  cides  to  go  to  Alexandria  and  bring  the  gospel  of  purity  to  Thais,  a  notorious  woman  who  lives  there  in  the  house  of  an  old  friend  of  his,  Nicias.  When  Thais  meets  Athana\xc3\xa9l,  she's  indifferent  to  what  he  says,  but  after  a  while  shebe- " b"comes  impressed  with  his  sincerity.  Finally  his  preaching  takes  root.  Thais  repents  and  decides  to  join  the  White  Sisters,  but  by  this  time  Athana\xc3\xa9l  has  fallen  in  love  with  her.&quot;  Here  Edwina  paused  to  get  her  breath;  then  she  went  on  to  finish.  &quot;He  leaves  her  at  the  con-  vent,  but  Thais  is  unable  to  withstand  the  hard  life  of  penance  and  goes  into  a  decline.  Overcome  by  his  love,  Athanagl  comes  to  her  just  as  she  is  carried  out,  dead.  And  so,  he's  left  with  neither  his  love  nor  his  faith.&quot;  Turning  to  the  piano,  Edwina  en-  tered  softly  into  the  piece,  adding  a  com-  mentary  of  her  own  while  she  played.  &quot;Here,&quot;  she  began,  &quot;we  have  Athana\xc3\xa9l's  life  among  the  monks-the  serenity,  the  peace.&quot;  As  the  music  gained  momen-  tum,  filling  the  small  room,  Edwina's  voice  strained  above  it.  &quot;This  is  where  he  goes  to  Nicias,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  this  is  where  Nicias  is  laughing  at  his  plan.&quot;  The  melody  hesitated,  moving  tenta-  tively  over  the  keyboard;  then  it  dipped  smoothly  back  into  its  own  beginning,  and  Edwina  said,  smoothly  herself,  &quot;And  here  he  meets  Thais,  who  is  gradually  .  .  .&quot;&quot;  she  let  the  word  hang  over  the  several  measures  &quot;.  .  .  won  by  his  preaching  ..  .&quot;  Edwina  bent  forward  on  the  stool  &quot;.  .  .  until  finally  ..  .&quot;  she  waited  &quot;.  .  .  seeing  the  evil  of  her  life  ...&quot;  and  waited  again  &quot;...  Thais  turns  to  the  Sisters  at  the  convent.&quot;  Xavier  looked  around  the  living  room  at  the  well-groomed,  heavy  priests  sit-  ting  there,  perfectly  straight  and  yet  at  ease.  'They  made  him  feel  a  bit  shabby  in  his  blue  suit.  It  was  three  years  old;  he  suddenly  found  himself  picturing  the  several  worn  places  that  he  overlooked  eachtime  he  put  it  on,  and  he  was  sorry  now  he  had  not  been  home  in  time  to  dress  properly  and  carefully.  All  the  fel-  lows  looked  like  very  substantial  men.  Their  suits  were  well  tailored.  Their  black  silk  socks  fit  tightly  around  the  ankle,  and  the  cuffs  of  their  shirts  were  stiff  and  snowy.  &quot;Athana\xc3\xa9l  realizes  how  deeply  in  love  he  is,&quot;  Edwina  was  saying,  &quot;and  he  comes  to  Thais  just  as  she  dies.&quot;  She  let  the  heavy  chords  of  the  death  scene  speak  for  themselves,  buther  head  was  bent  sofar  over  the  piano  that  it  seemed  about  to  touch  the  keyboard.  Xavier  was  sitting  beside  the  door  to  the  hall.  He  stood  up  quietly  and  di-  rected  a  mild  look  of  apology  around  the  room.  Brushing  back  his  hair,  he  murmured,  &quot;Excuse  me,&quot;  and  slipped  outside,  closing  the  door  behind  him.  The  air  in  the  hall  was  fresh  and  cool.  Xavier  stood  there  a  moment  to  get  his  bearings,  then  he  walked  softly  and  quickly  down  the  passageway  to  the  kitchen.  The  dirty  dishes  were  piled  haphazardly  on  every  available  surface,  but  he  cleared  a  space  on  the  big  enamel  table  and  then  went  to  the  cabinet  and  took  down  a  juice  glass.  He  brought  it  over  to  the  table  and  picked  up  the  bot-  tle  of  Canadian  Club,  which  was  still  standing  where  he  left  it  earlier  in  the  evening.  He  had  bought  it  especially  for  the  reunion,  but  only  a  little  had  been  used,  and  there  was,  he  saw,  some  of  that  left  in  the  highball  glasses.  They  had  never  drunk  a  great  deal  in  the  Seminary,  but  whenever  they  did  it  had  been  a  celebration-always  an  occasion;  someone's  birthday  or  a  feast  day  or  end  of  term-always  some  small  thing  worth  the  toast.  All  the  fellows  used  to  love  Canadian  Club  then.  Xavier  wondered  when  they  had  stopped.  It  seemed  a  shame  to  like  something  for  a  long  while  and  then  suddenly  not  to  care  about  it;  to  become  indifferent.  Well,  that  had  not  happened  to  him.  He  still  cared  for  things.  He  opened  the  bottle,  filled  the  juice  glass  half  full,  and  drank  off  the  whiskey.  After  he  had  a  glass  of  water  from  the  tap,  hearing  more  music  coming  from  the  living  room,  he  poured  himself  another,  larger  drink  of  the  Canadian  Club,  and  then  he  sat  down.  No,  he  thought,  feeling  a  deep  sadness  spread  through  his  body,  he  had  not  become  indifferent.  He  cared  a  great  deal.  XAVIER  did  not  hear  the  music  stop  or  know  how  long  it  had  been  still.  He  only  saw  the  door  open-so  quickly,  so  quietly-and  then  he  saw  Edwina  standing  there,  her  eyes  brilliant  with  anger.  &quot;Xavier!&quot;  she  whispered.  &quot;What  do  you  mean,  leaving  everyone  and  coming  out  to  the  kitchen  like  this!&quot;  &quot;It  was  all  right,&quot;  Xavier  said  lame-  ly.  &quot;They  were  listening  to  you  play.&quot;  His  own  eyes  were  red  and  watery  from  drinking  so  much  too  fast,  and  he  looked  out  as  though  through  tears.  &quot;But  they're  your  friends.  You're  the  one  who  should  be  entertaining  them,  not  wee!  What  will  the  boys  think  of  you,  walking  off  like  that!&quot;  Xavier  could  hear  the  silence  ringing  now  in  his  ears.  He  could  not  blink  away  the  blurred  sight  of  her,  and  so  he  looked  past  her  at  the  shadowed  hall  out  of  which  she  had  come  for  him.  &quot;They  didn't  notice,  Ed,&quot;  he  said  finally.  &quot;No-  body  noticed.&quot; "