 b"  My  Dear  Cunarp  SrEam-Sute  Company,  [REDACTED].:  AM  well  aware  that  any  kind  of  ticket,  whether  it  be  for  leaving  a  hat  in  a  cloakroom  or  flying  to  4a6170616e,  carries  certain  Conditions  of  Sale  printed  on  the  back,  in  full  or  in  part,  or  implied  or  referred  to,  or  drawn  to  the  attention  of  the  purchaser  by  notice  or  other  means  affixed  or  impaled  on  the  wall  of  the  office,  bureau,  cubbyhole,  or  any  other  place  whatsoever  where  the  ticket  is,  was,  has  been,  or  will  be  obtained.  I  also  know  that  any  purchaser  who  has  the  curiosity  to  examine  such  Conditions  and  the  patience  to  wade  right  through  a  paralyzing  morass  of  tiny  print  will  findthat  the  person  or  persons  who  sold  him  his  ticket  have  been  at  pains  to  rid  themselves  of  almost  all  responsibility  for  his  hat  or  his  person,  as  the  case  may  be,  and  have  covered  themselves  against  anything  that  he  or  they  may  or  may  not  do  ina  series  of  disastrous  contingencies  to  which  the  WITH  CUNARD  whole  history  of  the  world  can  scarcely  afford  a  parallel.  It  is  also  clear  to  me  that  in  contracting  to  convey  me  and  my  baggage  (&quot;or  provide  transportation  as  specified  herein,&quot;  to  use  your  own  phrase)  from  Liverpool  to  New  York  you  cannot  be  expected  to  undertake  so  arduous  and  even  hazardous  a  task  with  the  half  dozen  or  so  slipshod  provisos  thought  adequate  for  the  temporary  custody  of  an  overcoat  at  a  theatre.  The  sea  is  an  unstable  element,  in-  different  to  man's  wishes,  setting  at  naught  his  most  careful  contrivings,  and  I  certainly  do  not  propose  tocavilat  any  of  the  &quot;liberties&quot;  you  so  rightly  reserve  on  my  ticket  for  yourselves,  your  ship,  her  master,  your  agents,  and  others,  in  a  praiseworthy  attempt  to  foresee  and  guard  against  the  innumerable  surprises  and  mischances  of  a  voyage  across  the  pitiless  Atlantic.  No  man  of  sense  and  good  will  could  object  to  Clause  3,  for  instance,  of  your  Terms  and  Conditions,  which  begins  (you  will  remember):  3.  The  ship  shall  have  liberty  to  proceed  with  or  without  pilots,  t  o  towand  assist  vessels  in  all  situations,  to  be  to  wed,  to  adjust  com  passes,  to  drydock  with  the  passengers  and  their  b  aggag  e  on  board,  to  carry  cargo  of  all  kinds  ,  dangerous  or  otherwise,  to  compl  y  with  any  orders  or  directions  as  to  departure,  arrival,  routes,  ports  of  call,  stoppages,  d  estinati  o  n  or  otherwise,  given  b  y  the  g  overnment  of  any  nation  or  department  thereof  o  r  by  any  per  so  n  acting  or  purporti  ng  to  act  with  the  aut  hority  of  such  government,  o  r  any  department  thereof,  or  by  any  committee  or  person  havin  g  under  the  terms  of  t  he  w  ar  risk  insurance  on  the  ship  the  right  to  give  such  orders  or  directions,  and  if  by  reason  of  and  in  compliance  with  such  orders  o  r  directions  anything  is  done  o  r  is  not  done  the  same  shall  not  be  deemed  a  deviation  and  compliance  with  the  same  shall  be  de  emed  a  fulfillment  of  t  he  contract  voyage.  ...  By  all  means.  Let  the  ship  be  towed  and  adjust  com-  passes  as  necessary.  Should  I  at  any  time  during  the  voyage  poke  my  head  out  of  my  porthole,  attracted  by  an  unfamil-  iar  sound  of  hammering,  and  observe  that  we  are  hard  and  fast  ina  concrete  container,  shored  up  by  vast  balks  of  timber,  while  men  chip  busily  away  at  the  barnacles  on  our  hull,  you  will  not  find  me  at  the  head  of  a  throng  of  passengers  angrily  complaining  that  this  was  not  the  pur-  pose  for  which  I  and  my  baggage  came  on  board.  I  shall  fully  understand  that  some  person  or  committee  acting  or  purporting  to  act  with  the  authority  of  some  government  or  other  has,  in  all  probability,  got  us  into  this  pickle,  and  I  shall  readily  agree  that  whatever  is  done  or  not  done,  or  wherever  we  are  or  are  not  (even  if  we  are  back  in  Liverpool  again),  the  contract  voyage  has  been  fulfilled.  I  am  not  the  kind  of  man  lightly  to  bring  a  charge  of  de-  viationism  against  the  master  of  a  ship  who,  for  all  I  know,  may  have  cargo  of  all  kinds,  dangerous  or  otherwise,  on  board.  It  is  not,  I  see,  altogether  unlikely  that  we  shell  be  back  in  Liverpool  again.  Clause  3  continues  (I  need  hardly  re-  mind  you):  .  to  proceed  by  any  course  or  route  whatsoever  although  in  a  contrary  direction  to  o  r  out  of  or  beyond  the  direc  t  or  geo  graph  ical  or  customary  or  advertised  route  t  o  the  port  of  desti-  nation  once  or  often  er  in  any  orde  r  ,  backwa  rds  or  forwards,  without  no  tice  to  passe  n  gers,  and  for  any  such  pu  rpose  to  call  and/or  remain  or  omit  to  call  and/or  remain  at  any  port  o  r  ports,  place  or  places  whatsoever,  to  put  back  or  into  any  p  ort  at  the  disc  ret  ion  of  the  maste  r  and  to  deviate  from  the  direct  and  cus  tomar  y  course,  and  to  carry  the  passengers  and  th  eir  baggage  back  to  the  port  of  embarkation  or  to  any  port  or  place  wh  ether  beyon  d  the  port  of  dest  ination  or  not,  and  to  make  any  del  ay  whatsoever  at,  o  r  in  s  ailing  from,  the  port  of  e  mbark  a  tion  o  r  any  such  port  or  place  as  aforesaid  ...  and  to  all  of  this,  let  me  say  at  once,  I  give  my  hearty  con-  sent.  I  quite  see  that  circumstances  might  arise  in  which  the  master  of  your  ship  might  wish  to  sail  out  of  or  beyond  or  in  a  contrary  direction  to  the  port  of  destination,  and  might  be  compelled  to  shuttle  backwards  and  forwards,  once  or  oftener,  in  any  order  and  for  any  number  of  years  whatsoever  without  calling  or  omitting  to  call  at  any  port  or  place,  with  or  without  pilots,  whether  such  ports  or  places  were  or  were  not  behind,  in  front  of,  or  beyond  any  destina-  tion  whatsoever  from  which  any  ship  of  yours  had  previously  deviated.  It  is  truethat  the  expression  &quot;backwards  or  for-  wards&quot;  reads  a  little  oddly  in  a  context  where  one  might  have  expected  &quot;ahead  or  astern,&quot;  but  in  general  I  would  no  sooner  dream  of  contesting  the  propriety  and  necessity  of  Clause  3,  in  whole  or  in  part,  with  or  without  commas,  than  I  would  question  the  wisdom  of  Clause  19  (&quot;Any  person  carried  under  this  ticket  hereby  assumes  all  risk  of  war  and  warlike  operations.  ...&quot;),  or  ofthat  other  bit  that  warns  me  not  to  try  to  hold  you  liable  for  injury  or  delay  to  my-  self  or  my  baggage  &quot;arising  from  dangers  of  the  sea  or  other  navigable  waters,  Acts  of  God  or  public  enemies,  barratry  of  master  or  crew&quot;  -do  you  get  much  of  that,  I  wonder?-  &quot;seizure  under  legal  process,  saving  or  attempting  to  save  life  or  property  at  sea  or  from  any  deviation,&quot;  etc.,  etc.  No.  In  all  these  matters  I  accept  you  as  the  experts,  and  I  do  not  doubt  that  your  twenty-two  Terms  and  Condi-  tions  are  the  result  of  bitter  experience-of  countless  occa-  sions  on  which  passengers  have  made  a  fuss  simply  because  they  have  been  carried  into  or  out  of  or  beyond,  or  back-  wards  and  forwards  in  any  order,  or  because  of  some  trivial  piece  of  barratry,  or  because  anything  whatsoever  has  been  done  or  not  done.  My  complaint,  such  as  it  is,  is  purely  on  a  matter  of  presentation,  about  which  I  know  at  least  as  much  as  you.  ALL  of  your  Conditions  are  set  out  in  8-point  type,  in  which  I  have  reproduced  sections  of  them  above.  It  is,  as  anyone  can  see,  a  perfectly  legible  type  size.  Butyou  seem  not  to  be  aware  of  the  old  printer's  rule  that  lays  down  that  &quot;for  easy  reading&quot;  8-point  type  should  not  be  set  wider  than  4  inches  IO\xe2\x80\x94point  64  6\xc2\xa2  6  6  666C(\xc2\xa2  5  6&lt;  12_p0int  c  cx  6  cx(\xc2\xa2  &amp;  66  6  (G  -the  reason  being,  of  course,  that  there  is  a  width  beyond  which  the  eye  cannot  readily  follow  printing  from  line  to  line.  The  column  of  Conditions  (Nos,  1-3)  on  the  front  of  my  " b"ticket  is  just  under  six  inches  wide,  precisely  as  shown  in  the  samples  above,  which  means  that  the  passenger,  in  attempting  to  discover  what  he  has  let  himself  in  for,  runs  a  grave  risk  of  reading  the  same  line  several  times  over,  skipping  a  line  (which  may  contain  upwards  of  twenty-five  words  about  doing  or  not  doing  anything  whatsoever),  and  in  general  proceeding  by  a  course  or  route  contrary  to  or  out  of  or  beyond  the  direct  and  customary  manner  of  read-  ing,  once  or  oftener  in  any  order,  backwards  or  forwards.  This  is  a  risk  that  I  am  mot  prepared  to  accept,  and  one,  moreover,  that  is  nowhere  covered  by  your  Conditions.  Whether  you  prefer  to  narrow  your  column  to  four  inches  or  to  reset  your  Conditions  in  12-point,  as  the  printer's  rule  appears  to  require,  is  for  you  to  decide.  The  latter  would  in-  sure  maximum  legibility;  here,  for  your  convenience,  is  a  specimen  of  12-point:  Barratry  of  Master  or  Crew  I  must  warn  you,  however,  that  this  resetting  will  increase  the  size  of  your  ticket  from  its  present  dimensions  of  seven-  teen  inches  wide  by  ten  and  an  eighth  inches  long  to  some-  thing  like  seventeen  inches  by  twenty,  which  might  prove  unwieldy  in  a  high  wind.  A  more  serious  problem  arises  when  we  turn  to  the  back  of  the  ticket,  where  Clauses  4-22  are  set,  you  will  notice,  at  a  column  width  of  no  less  than  ten  inches-possibly  a  world  record  for  8-point.  The  printer's  rule  does  not,  so  far  as  I  know,  extend  to  type  sizes  suitable  for  lines  of  such  inter-  minable  length,  but  by  a  process  of  extrapolation  we  arrive  at  a  minimum  of  20-point,  and  I  am  not  sure  that  you  would  care  either  for  the  hint  of  overemphasis  in  a  phrase  like  Warlike  Operations  or  for  the  formidable  acreage  of  ticket  involved.  You  may  decide,  on  reflection,  to  cut  down  the  number  of  Condi-  tions.  And  where,  as  a  matter  of  interest,  do  you  get  that  hyphen  in  &quot;Steam-Ship  Company&quot;?  Yours  sincerely,  H.  F.  Euuis  "