  ALPHONSE  PEINTRE  |!  (aN  INTERVIEW  NOT  UTTERLY  UN-  |  LIKE  THOSE  IN  &quot;THE  ARTIST  IN  HIs  sTUDIO,&quot;'  TEXT  AND  PHOTOGRAPHS  BY  |\  ALEXANDER  LIBERMAN  )  HE  squalid  hut,  near  Rouen,  whence  issue  the  cryptically  dab-  {}{|  bled  bits  of  canvas  that  have  soothed  five  generations  of  art  dealers  is  approached  by  an  unspeakable  dirt  road  winding  among  depressingly  dusty  lime  trees  and  appallingly  tawdry  live-  stock.  How  true  it  is,  I  reflected,  that  artists  are  slovenly  about  their  environ-  ments!  So  deeply  rutted  was  the  road  that  as  I  bounced  to  a  stop  in  front  of  the  master's  residence  a  stack  of  Vogues,  which  I  had  brought  as  my  recommen-  dation  to  the  reputedly  inaccessible  sage,  leaped  from  the  back  seat  of  my  con-  vertible  and  flew  into  the  air  like  as-  saulted  chickens.  Or  perhaps  they  were  real  chickens;  I  was  amused  to  discover  that  several  lice-infested  fowl  had  be-  come  fatally  entangled  with  the  grille  of  my  Mercedes.  I  had  been  prepared  by  my  [REDACTED]  friends  for  the  fact  that  Peintre's  living  quarters  were  not  commensurate  with  the  elegance  of  his  productions;  but  I  had  not  been  warned  that  the  shack  was  mounted  on  ten-foot  stilts.  'The  only  access  to  the  hovel  was  by  means  of  a  movable  ladder  which,  to  judge  from  the  sounds  of  altercation  within,  some-  one  was  reluctant  to  put  down.  At  last,  however,  after  I  had  nearly  exhausted  my  battery  in  beeping  the  horn,  a  cheery  red  female  face  appeared  at  one  of  the  windows,  and  a  diaphanous  old  dere-  lict  clad  in  baggy  blue  coveralls,  grum-  bling  in  a  language  I  could  not  under-  stand,  lowered  the  rickety  steps  into  place.  Thisgrim  wraith  was  Alphonse  Peintre.  I  had  an  excellent  opportunity  to  study  his  face  when,  as  I  carried  my  cameras  up  the  ladder,  a  rung  snapped  and  to  preserve  my  balance  I  seized  his  Orientally  long,  silken  beard.  His  face  was  eroded  by  wrinkles  as  if  by  some  never-ceasing  geological  process.  His  lips  were  thin  and  hard  with  peas-  ant  cunning.  His  ochre  cheekbones  suggested  a  possible  Mongol  strain  in  his  blood.  He  wore  a  drab  puce  bean-  ie  on  his  abundant  but  unkempt  locks,  clotted  with  snaffles  and  burrs.  But  it  was  his  eyes  that  held  my  attention.  They  were  round  with  astonishment,  their  blue  bleached  as  if  by  a  sudden  infusion  of  pain,  and  an  indignant  glint  flashed  deep  in  their  lucid,  oddly  youth-  ful  depths.  His  wife  rushed  forward  to  lift  us   both  into  the  cottage.  As  I  felt  her  broad  crimson  hands,  roughened  by  homely  labor,  tighten  around  my  abdo-  men,  I  realized  who  of  the  couple  pro-  vided  the  physical  strength.  'This  faith-  ful  helpmate  was  de  la  terre.  I  perceived  a  paradox  in  so  airy  an  art  loyally  shel-  tered  by  such  powerful  earthy  muscles.  Mme.  Peintre  cradled  her  husband  like  a  child  and  set  him  in  the  room's  one  furnishing,  a  worm-riddled  rocking  chair.  &quot;You  have  brought  us  luck,&quot;  she  confided  to  me.  &quot;You  will  pay  for  the  chickens?&quot;  It  was  a  sad  room.  A  little  wan  light  dribbled  in  across  the  thatched  window  sills,  Pots,  peanut-butter  jars,  dried  tubes,  twisted  coat  hangers  littered  the  floor.  An  icon  hung  cockeyed  in  one  corner.  The  walls  were  entirely  of  canvas,  punctured  here  and  there  where  the  good  wife  had  snipped  out  pieces  to  sell  to  the  American  museums.  Through  these  rents  I  saw  a  landscape  from  which  all  color  had  been  drained  by  the  vivid  fancies  of  the  artist's  re-  morseless  imagination.  Some  sections  of  the  shabby  wall  writhed  with  superim-  posed  scribbles,  like  the  magic  caves  near  Lascaux.  The  venerable  eremite  slowly  al-  lowed  a  few  words  to  escape  his  canny  reserve.  Though  he  had  been  a  con-  temporary  of  Balzac,  his  wordswere  not  those  of  a  senile  man.  How  remark-  ably  old  these  visual  sorcerers  live  to  be!  It  must  be  the  relaxed  work  hours.  &quot;Giotto  .  ..  blotto,&quot;  he  said,  in  response  to  a  question  of  mine.  &quot;Michel  Agnolo  ...  a  little  dude.&quot;  He  called  him  &quot;Agnolo,&quot;  as  you  would  a  childhood  friend.  &quot;Monet  ...  mada.  Poor  Cé-  zanne  .  ..  a  grind.  He  seemed  always  to  be  preparing  for  an  examination  that  was  never  scheduled.  Art  is  not  like  that.  Art  is  like  baby  shoes.  When  you  coat  them  with  gold,  they  can  no  longer  be  worn,  Do  not  take  down  my  words,&quot;  he  protested  with  a  sudden  sly  wave  of  his  beautifully  withered  hand,  encrusted  with  Byzantine  rings,  the  ancient  as-  cetic's  one  luxury.  &quot;They  are  foolish.  Art  is  foolish.  Since  Watteau,  nade.  And  myself.  I  try.  The  moon  is  com-  ing  closer.  I  am  not  afraid.  It  is  no  big-  ber  than  a  pie  plate.  Do  you  have  enough?&quot;  We  ate  peanut-butter  sandwiches-a  typical  meal  of  this  pays  de  Caux.  Mme.  Peintre,  a  girlish  grace  imprisoned  in  her  heavy  body,  adroitly  usurped  the  rocking  chair  and  fell  asleep.  Peintre  scowled  and  squatted  on  the  floor  and  began  to  twist  coat  hangers  into  unique  and  exquisite  shapes.  Absent-mindedly  he  spat  on  my  tripod.  I  assured  him   it  was  an  accident.  In  the  mysterious  way  of  genius,  he  seemed  to  have  re-  treated  into  himself.  My  conversa-  tional  gambits  fell  unanswered,  as  if  into  an  inscrutable  primeval  pool.  Re-  luctantly,  I  took  my  leave;  in  going  out  the  door,  I  forgot-so  charming  and  intense  was  the  atmosphere  of  this  consecrated  interior-about  the  ladder,  and  fell  ten  feet  with  all  my  equipment.  Looking  up  from  my  posi-  tion  on  the  foul  ground,  I  saw  Peintre's  remarkable  countenance  framed  in  the  crude  portal,  andwas  rewarded  in  a  most  unexpected  way.  The  Olympian  hauteur  of  his  visage  cracked,  and  the  master  smiled.  