 b" \xe2\x80\x9cSHARKS?  &quot;  The  tip  of  the  doctor's  wife's  freckled  nose  seemed  to  sharpen  in  the  sparkling  air.  Her  eyes,  momentarily  rendered  colorless  by  thought,  took  up  the  green  of  the  Carib-  bean;  the  plane  of  the  water  intersected  her  throat.  &quot;Yes,  we  have  some.  Big  dark  fellows,  too.&quot;  Ralph,  hanging  beside  her,  squatting  on  buoyance,  straightened  up,  splashing,  and  tried  to  survey  the  beryl  depths  around  him.  His  sudden  movements  rendered  even  the  immediate  water  opaque.  The  doctor's  wife's  surprisingly  young  laughter  rang  out.  &quot;You  556e6974656420537461746573ns,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;so  nervy,&quot;  and  with  complacence  pushed  a  little  deeper  into  the  sea,  floating  back-  ward  while  the  water  gently  bubbled  around  her  mouth.  She  had  a  small  face,  gone  freckled  and  rosy  in  this  climate;  her  stringy  auburn  hair  had  been  dulled  by  daily  sea-bathing.  &quot;''They  rarely  come  in  this  far,&quot;  she  said,  tilting  her  face  up-  ward  and  speaking  to  the  sky.  &quot;Only  in  the  turtle-killing  season,  when  the  blood  draws  them  in.  We're  fortunate.  Our  beaches  go  out  shallowly.  Over  in  St.  Martin,  now,  the  offshore  water  is  deep,  and  they  must  be  careful.&quot;  She  turned  and,  with  the  casual  pad-  dling  stroke  of  a  plump  woman  who  floats  easily,  swam  smiling  toward  him.  &quot;A  shame,&quot;  she  said,  her  voice  strained  by  the  effort  of  curving  her  throat  to  keep  her  lips  free,  &quot;Vic  Johnson  is  gone.  He  was  a  dear  soul.  The  old  Anglican  vicar.&quot;  She  pronounced  &quot;vicar&quot;  rather  harshly,  perhaps  humorously.  She  stood  up  beside  Ralph  and  pointed  to  the  hori-  zon.  &quot;Now  Ae,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;used  to  swim  far  out  into  the  bay,  he  and  his  great  black  dog  Hooker.  Vie  would  swim  straight  out,  until  he  couldn't  move  a  muscle,  and  then  he  would  float,  and  grab  Hooker's  tail,  and  the  dog  would  pull  him  in.  Honestly,  it  was  a  sight,  this  fat  old  English  gentleman,  his  white  hair  streaming,  coming  in  on  the  tail  of  a  dog.  He  never  gave  a  thought  to  sharks.  Oh,  he'd  swim  wey  out,  until  he  was  just  a  dot.&quot;  They  were  waist-deep  in  the  sea,  and  at  a  motion  from  Ralph  they  walked  toward  shore  together.  The  calm  warm  water  leaped  from  their  strides.  She  was  small  beside  him,  and  her  voice  piped  at  his  shoulder.  &quot;I'm  sorry  he's  gone,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;He  was  a  lovely  old  gentle-  man.  He  had  been  here  forty  years.  He  loved  theisland.&quot;  &quot;I  can  see  why  he  would,&quot;  Ralph  said.  He  turned  his  head  to  review  the  crescent  of  landscape  around  the  beach,  as  if  through  his  fresh  eyes  the  doctor's  wife  could  renew-what  obscurely  seemed  to  him  to  need  renewing-her  sense  of  the  island's  beauty.  The  white  beach  was  empty.  The  natives  used  it  only  as  a  path.  Their  homes  were  set  behind  the  ragged  hedge  of  sea  grape  that  rimmed  the  sand.  Bits  of  tarpaper,  pink-painted  cement,  corrugated  roof-  ing  reddened  by  rust,  wooden  walls  weathered  to  silver  and  patched  by  flat-  tened  kerosene  tins,  shacks  on  stilts,  and  unfinished  cinder-block  shells  peeped  above  the  dull,  low  foliage.  There  were  few  flowers.  This  was  January.  But  the  clusters  of  coconuts  nested  under  the  shuffling  branches  of  the  palms,  and  the  high,small,  soft  clouds,  like  the  quick  clouds  of  spring  in  his  own  climate,  suggested  that  here  the  season  of  bloom  and  the  season  of  harvest  were  parallel  and  perpetual:  germination  and  fruition  ceaselessly  intertwined.  There  were  no  mountains  in  the  view.  The  island  was  low;  when  they  came  in  on  the  airplane,  it  seemed  a  two-dimensional  twin,  or  sketch,  of  St.  Martin,  which  thrust  from  the  sea  like  a  set  of  [REDACTED]  mountain-  tops.  'There,  the  beaches  were  steep  and  dangerous;  here,  they  were  safe.  There,  Dutchmen  and  Frenchmen  built  bustling  hotels  and  restaurants  to  en-  tice  556e6974656420537461746573n  dollars;  here,  strangers  rarely  came.  Here,  even  the  place  names  were  bestowed  without  enterprise  or  ef-  fort.  East  End,  West  End,  The  Road,  The  Forest-thus  the  island  was  geo-  graphically  divided.  The  uninhabited  ridge  of  scrub  and  coral  rubble  that  formed  one  side  of  the  bay  was  named  High  Hill.  The  village  was  called  The  Bay.  The  orange  cliffs  on  the  other  side  of  the  bay  were  called  The  Cliffs.  During  these  short  winter  days  the  sun  set  on  a  diagonal  above  them  and,  between  six  and  seven  o'clock,  touched  the  sea  at  the  fingertips  of  the  most  distant  arm  of  land.  Yet  after  the  sun  had  drowned,  light,  itself  lazy,  lingered  among  the  huts  and  the  olean-  der  bushes.  Now  it  was  late  after-  noon;  the  tiny  tropical  sun,  not  yet  swollen  to  red,  patiently  poured  white  brilliance  down  through  the  hushed  air.  The  air  was  as  soft,  as  kind,  as  the  water;  there  was  no  hostility  in  either.  The  two  elements,  as  Ralph  came  out  of  one  into  the  other,  seemed  tints  of  a  single  enveloping  benevolence.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  but  not  merely  that,&quot;  the  doctor's  wife  said.  &quot;He  loved  the  peo-  ple.  He  built  them  three  churches  and,  oh,  did  all  manner  of  good  works.  We're  talking  of  Reverend  Johnson,&quot;  she  explained  to  Eve,  who  had  remained     35  on  the  beach  with  the  children,  &quot;The  Anglican  padre.  He  retired  last  year  and  went  back  to  [REDACTED].  Sussex,  I  think.&quot;  &quot;He  loved  the  people?&quot;  Eve  asked.  She  had  heard.  Voices  carried  well  in  the  air,  disturbed,  during  the  day,  by  only  the  whispering  beat  of  the  surf  and  infrequent  voices  calling  in  English  made  musical  by  an  unintelligible  lilt.  The  doctor's  wife  dropped  down  on  the  sand.  &quot;These  are  my  children,&quot;  she  intoned  gruffly.  She  chased  the  abrupt  parody  away  with  her  sharp  laughter.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  he  loved  them.  He  gave  his  life  to  them.&quot;  The  girlish  excitement  of  her  voice  and  the  innocent  clarity  of  her  eyes  went  queerly  withher  body,  which  was  middle-aged.  Her  plump  legs  had  gone  lumpy  and  sodden,  and  her  small  face  was  finely  wrinkled,  each  wrinkle  accented  by  a  line  of  white  where  the  pinched  skin  had  evaded  the  sun.  &quot;He  didn't  have  any  children  of  his  own,&quot;  she  thought  to  add.  &quot;Just  this  dreadful  dog  Hooker.  Such  a  funny  old  man.  You  might  have  liked  him.  I'm  sure  you  never  see  his  kind  in  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;I  know  we  would  have  liked  him,&quot;  Eve  said.  &quot;Hannah  often  mentions  Reverend  Johnson.&quot;  Hannah  was  their  cook,  a  woman  of  over  thirty  yet  as  shy  and  subtle  as  a  girl.  Her  skin  was  always  shining  as  if  in  embarrassment,  but  she  had  a  jaunty  way  of  crooning  hymns  to  herself  in  the  kitchen.  The  children,  at  first  timid  of  her  color,  adored  her,  and  listened  with  eyes  rounded  by  delight  when  she  held  up  a  two-tone  forefinger  and  told  them  to  be  good.  Goodness  had  never  before  been  presented  to  them  seriously.  Ralph  and  Eve  had  not  expected  a  servant.  They  had  picked  the  most  obscure  island  they  could  find.  But  Hannah  came  with  the  house;  the  owner,  a  svelte  widow  who  had  children  in  [REDACTED],  50657275,  and  Antigua,  assumed  they  would  need  her.  As  it  turned  out,  they  did.  They  could  never  have  unravelled  alone  all  the  riddles  of  this  novel  world.  Eve  could  never  have  managed  the  shopping,  which  was  car-  ried  on  by  gossip-invisible  voices  as  liquidas  the  wind,  telling  who  had  just  slaughtered  a  pig,  and  whose  fishing  boat  had  come  in  with  a  catch.  The  village  was  full  of  stores;  almost  every  shack  at  least  sold-for  disturb-  ingly  discrepant  prices-556e6974656420537461746573n  cig-  arettes  smuggledfrom  St.  Martin.  But  even  the  business  hours  of  the  most  official  store,  a  cement  corridor  of  shelves  attached  to  the  customs  office,  had  proved  a  mystery  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns  were  unable  to  crack.  They  always  " b"found  barred  the  larg  e  green  door  bear-  ing  in  wo  bbly  chalk  script  the  ancient  announcem  ent,  &quot;Attention  Members!  At  tention  Friends!  This  store  will  be  closed  Thursday  afternoon.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  Hannah  .  She's  a  good  girl,&quot;  the  doctor's  wife  said,  and  rolled  over  on  her  sto  mach.  The  corrugated  backs  of  her  thighs  were  frosted  withsand  like  wet  sugar.  ''She  ts,  you  know  ,&quot;  Eve  sa  id.  &quot;She's  lovely.  I  think  they're  all  lovely.  They've  all  been  lovely  to  us.&quot;  Such  insistence  was  un  like  his  wife.  Ralph  wondered  what  was  between  the  tw  o  women,  who  had  jus  t  met  a  day  ago.  &quot;I  can  see  why  Reverend  Johnson  loved  the  people,&quot;  Eve  added  in  a  deliberate,  though  cautiously  soft,  voice.  &quot;The  people&quot;  were  all  around  them  ;  their  huts  cam  e  down  to  the  edge  of  the  sand,  and,  window  s  shut  tered,  the  patched  walls  seemed  to  be  listening  raptly.  The  doctor's  wife  rolled  o  ver  again  and  returned  to  a  si  tting  position.  W  hat  was  making  her  so  restless?  ''Yes,&quot;  she  said,  and  an  especially  heavy  curl  of  surf  fo  amed  up  the  white  slope  and  soaked  in  just  short  of  their  feet.  The  sand  was  porous;  innumerable  punctures  dotted  it,  the  breathing  holes  of  crabs.  The  doctor's  wife's  eyes  fixed  on  the  horizon  and  became,  from  the  side,  colorless  lenses,  Her  nose  in  pro-     file  turned  ac  ute.  ''They're  simple  souls  ,&quot;  she  said.  THE  doctor's  wife  was  a  queen  here.  She  was  the  only  fully  white  woman  resident  on  the  island.  When  the  rare  British  official  and  the  rarer,  fantastically  minor  member  of  royalty  came  to  grace  this  most  remote  and  docile  scrap  of  empire  with  a  visit,  she  was  the  hostess.  When  she  roared  along  the  dirt  roads  in  her  spattered  English  Ford-its  muffler  had  long  ago  rotted  away-the  older  natives  touched  their  foreheads  ironically  and  the  children  flapped  their  arms  in  her  wake  of  dust.  When  she  and  the  doctor  condescended  to  call  upon  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  family  staying  three  weeks  in  The  Bay,  Hannah  had  trembled  with  pride  and  broken  a  cup  in  the  kitchen.  The  doctor  was  a  slight,  rapid-voiced  man  with  a  witty  air  of  failure.  His  fingertips  were  dyed  deep  yellow  by  smuggled  cigarettes.  He  pre-  ferred  Camels,  but  Chesterfields  were  all  that  were  coming  through  now.  He  had  never  seen  a  filtered  cigarette.  He  and  his  wife  had  been  ten  years  in  the  tropics-B.G.,  Trinidad,  Barbados,  now  this.  He  had  some  vague  scheme  of  getting  to  [REDACTED]  and  making  a  for-  tune  and  retiring  to  a  Yorkshire  village.  He  was  off  for  the  day  to  St.  Martin.  &quot;In  [REDACTED],  now,&quot;  the  doctor's  wife  said,  vehemently  brushing  sand  from  her  knees,  &quot;are  the  coloreds  well  cared  for?&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  mean?&quot;  Eve  asked.  &quot;Are  they  well  off?&quot;  &quot;Not  really,&quot;  Ralph  said,  because  he  sensed  that  it  would  be  better  if  he,  rather  than  Eve,  answered.  &quot;In  some  parts  bet-  ter  than  others.  In  the  [REDACTED],  of  course,  they're  openly  dis-  criminated  against;  in  the  [REDACTED]  they  by  and  large  have  to  live  in  the  city  slums  but  at  least  they  have  full  legal  rights.&quot;  &quot;Oh  dear,&quot;  the  doctor's  wife  said.  &quot;It  is  a  problem,  isn't  it?&quot;  Eve's  face  flashed  up  from  studying  a  shell.  &quot;Whose  prob-  lem?&quot;  she  asked.  She  was  a  graduate  of  one  of  those  fe-  male  colleges  where  only  a  member  of  a  racial  minority  or  a  cripple  can  be  elected  class  president.  News  from  [REDACTED]  Africa  made  her  voice  thrash,  and  she  was  for  anyone-Cas-  tro,  Ben-Gurion,  Martin  Lu-  ther  King-who  in  her  mind  represented  an  oppressed  race.  That  such  automatic  sympathy  was  itself  condescending  had  not  occurred  to  her.  Of  English  blood,  enriched  by  remote  and  aristocratic  injections  of  French  and  Russian,  she  denied  the  less  favored  even  the  compliment  of  fearing  them.  The  doctor's  wife  returned  her  gaze  to  the  horizon,  and  Ralph  wondered  if  they  had  been  rude.  In  the  woman's  pointed  profile  there  was  a  certain  per-  haps  deliberately  noble  thrust.  But,  the  hostess,  she  relented  and  tried  to  make  the  conversation  go  again.  She  turned  her  head,  shading  her  eyes  with  a  quick  hand  and  exposing  her  neat  white  teeth  in  a  tense  smile.  &quot;The  schools,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Can  they  go  to  your  schools?&quot;  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  Ralph  said  swiftly,  at  the  same  time  realizing  that  for  her  there  was  no  &quot;of  course&quot;  to  it.  She  knew  nothing  about  his  country.  He  felt  firm-  er,  having  gauged  her  ignorance,  and  having  moved  to  the  hard  ground  of  information.  &quot;Nobody  denies  them  schools.  In  the  [REDACTED]  the  schools  are  segregated.  But  in  the  [REDACTED],  and  the  West,  and  so  on,  there's  no  problem.&quot;  He  hunched  his  shoulders,  feeling  at  his  back  Eve's  disapproval  of  his  saying  &quot;problem.&quot;  &quot;But&quot;  -the  doctor's  wife's  freckles  gathered  under  her  eyes  as  she  squinted  into  the  focus  of  the  issue-  &quot;would  your  children  go  to  school  with  them?&quot;  " b"&quot;Sure.  Good  heavens.  Why  not?&quot;  He  was  relieved  to  clear  this  up,  to  lock  this  door.  He  hoped  the  doctor's  wife  would  now  turn  away  and  talk  of  some-  thing  else.  She  sighed.  &quot;Of  course,  you  in  Amer-  ica  have  lived  with  the  problem  so  long.  In  [REDACTED],  now,  they're  just  waking  up;  the  blacks  are  pouring  into  London.&quot;  A  wave,  pushed  by  one  behind  it,  slid  so  far  up  the  slant  of  sand  their  feet  were  delicately  shocked  and  soaked.  For  a  few  seconds  their  ankles  glittered  in  rippling  sleeves  of  retreating  water.  Eve  said  slowly,  &quot;You  talk  as  if  they  had  asked  to  be  made  slaves  and  brought  here.&quot;  &quot;Mommy,  look!  Mommy,  look!&quot;  Kate's  voice,  mingling  with  Larry's  babyish  yips  of  excitement,  came  from  far  down  the  beach.  Their  little  silhou-  ettes  were  jiggling  around  something  dark  at  their  feet,  and  out  of  the  sea  grape  an  old  woman  in  a  kerchief  and  a  young  sailor  with  a  naked  chest  had  emerged  to  watch  them,  amused  tosee  what  amused  these  strange  children.  Eve  rose,  casting  down,  for  Ralph  to  see,  a  startled  and  indignant  look  at  the  doctor's  wife's  body,  as  if  it  were  an  offensive  piece  of  rubbish  washed  up  on  the  pure  sands  of  her  mind.  As  Eve  walked  away,  the  doctor's  wife  said,  &quot;Doesn't  she  take  a  tan  beautiful-  ly?  7  &quot;Yes,  she  always  does.&quot;  With  his  wife  out  of  earshot,  Ralph  relaxed  into  the  sand.  Mediating  between  the  two  women  had  demanded  an  exhausting  equilibrium.  He  resigned  himself  to  listening;  he  knew  the  doctor's  wife's  tongue  would  be  loosened.  The  presence  of  another  white  queen  inhibited  her,  diluted  her  authority.  &quot;Do  you  want  to  hear  a  frightening  story?&quot;  &quot;Sure.&quot;  He  acquiesced  uneasily.  The  attention  of  the  houses  behind  them  seemed  to  grow  more  in-  tense.  He  felt  that  he  and  his  family  were  liked  in  the  vil-  lage;  the  doctor's  wife,  driv-  ing  down  from  the  center  of  the  island  to  enjoy  their  beach,  assumed  an  incrimi-  nating  alliance  which  he  did  not  wish  to  exist.  For  when  the  sun  went  down,  she  would  go  home,  leaving  them  alone  in  the  village  with  the  night  and  its  noises.   &quot;What's  this  I  hear  about  NorelPs  pushing  pants  for  after  six?&quot;  &quot;When  Vic  Johnson  left,&quot;  she  said,  lowering  her  voice  and  sinking  back  on  her  elbow,  to  bring  her  face  closer  to  his,  &quot;they  had  a  party  to  greet  the  new  parson,  a  very  nice  young  colored  boy  from  St.  [REDACTED].  Very  nice,  I  must  say,  and  they  say  very  intelligent,  though  I  haven't  heard  him  preach.  Well,  the  Warden-you  haven't  met  him,  and  I  daresay  you  won't,  a  big  smooth  Ja-  maican,  takes  himself  oh  ever  so  serious-  ly-the  Warden  makes  this  little  speech.  He  of  course  mentions  Vic,  forty  years  and  so  on,  but  right  at  the  end  he  says  that  he  knows  we  will  not  miss  Rev-  erend  Johnson,  because  the  new  vicar  is  such  a  fine  young  man,  comes  to  us  with  such  an  excellent  record  of  study,  and  the  rest  of  it,  and  furthermore,  further-  more,  what  makes  us  especially  happy  and  proud,  he  is  one  of  us.  Imagine!  One  of  us!  Of  course,  the  young  par-  son  was  embarrassed  to  death.  It  made  me  so  mad  I  would  have  jumped  up  and  left  if  the  doctorhadn't  held  my  hand.  One  of  us!  Vic  had  given  his  life  to  these  people.&quot;  Her  voice  had  become  shrill;  Ralph   spoke  in  the  hope  of  restraining  it.  &quot;It  seems  unnecessary;  but  natural,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  don't  see  anything  natural  about  it.  Unnatural,  in  my  book.  Unnatural,  childish  ingratitude.  You  just  don't  know  how  unnatural  these  people  are.  If  you  could  see  one-tenth  of  the  antics,  and  then  the  selfishness,  the  doctor  puts  up  with.  At  two  in  the  morning,  'Doc-  tor,  Doctor,  come  save  my  child,&quot;  and  then  a  week  later,  when  he  tries  to  col-  lect  his  poor  little  dollar  or  two,  they  don't  remember.  They  don't  remem-  ber  at  all.  And  if  he  insists-&quot;The  white  people  are  stealing  our  money.'  Oh.  I  hate  them.  God  forgive  me,  I've  come  to  hate  them.  They're  not  natural.  They're  not  fully  human.&quot;  Seeing  his  hand  begin  a  protesting  movement,  she  added,  &quot;And  for  that  matter,  do  you  know  what  they  say  about  you  and  your  wife?&quot;  It  was  as  if  a  shadow  cruising  through  her  words  now  made  its  lunge.  &quot;No.  Do  they  say  something?&quot;  &quot;This  is  just  to  show  how  malicious  they  are.  They  say  your  wife  has  a  touch  of  the  brush.&quot;  It  took  Ralph  a " b"moment  to  expand  &quot;brush&quot;  into  brush.&quot;  He  laughed,  what  else?  The  doctor's  wife  laughed,  too;  but  under  the  blond  eyebrows  her  blue  eyes,  the  pupils  pinpricks  in  the  sun,  were  fixed  on  his  face.  She  expected  his  face  to  crack  and  the  truth  to  escape.  &quot;You  see  how  dark  she  is,&quot;  she  explained.  &quot;How  tan.&quot;  He  watched  her  tongue  tick  as  she  suspensefully  pronounced  the  last  two  words.  Girlish  curiosity  gave  a  taut  surface  to  her  mature  malice.  Blood  rushed  through  his  body;  the  wound  was  confused;  his  anger  entan-  gled  him  with  his  attacker.  He  was  sup-  plying  an  absurd  assault  with  teeth  out  of  himself.  &quot;She  just  naturally  gets  that  brown.&quot;  &quot;And  you  see,&quot;  the  doctor's  wife  went  on,  still  not  unpinning  her  eyes  from  his  face,  &quot;that's  why  they  say  you  came  here.  No  tourists  come  here,  least  of  all  with  children,  They  say  your  wife's  being  part  Negro  has  kept  you  out  of  the  hotels  on  the  better  islands.&quot;  He  felt  certain  that  this  ingenious  ar-  gument  was  wholly  her  own.  &quot;We  came  here  because  it  was  cheap,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;of  course,&quot;  and  giggled,  sensing  that  she  had  ex-  posed  herself  to  his  defense.  &quot;But  they  can't  believe  that.  They  believe,  you  see,  that  all  556e6974656420537461746573ns  are  rich.&quot;  Which  was  just  what,  Ralph  knew,  she  and  the  doctor  believed.  He  stood  up,  wet  sand  collapsing  from  his  legs.  In  an  effort  to  rein  his  excitement,  he  threw  several  unrelated  laughs,  as  if  out  of  a  renewed  realiza-  tion  of  absurdity,  outward  into  the  air.  He  looked  down  at  the  woman  and  said,  &quot;Well,  that  explains  why  they  seem  to  like  her  better  than  me.&quot;  The  doctor's  wife,  having  strained  her  neck  to  squint  up  at  him,  collapsed  the  rest  of  the  way.  She  pillowed  her  head  with  one  arm  and  threw  the  other  over  her  eyes.  Without  her  eyes  her  lips  seemed  vague  and  numb.  &quot;Oh,  no,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;''They  hate  her  for  getting  away  with  it.&quot;  His  laughter  this  time  was  totally  vacant;  it  humiliated  him.  &quot;I  think  I'll  go  in  again,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Before  the  sun  fades.&quot;  &quot;It  won't  fade,&quot;  was  the  faint  an-  swer.  ROM  the  safety  of  the  water  he  watched  his  dark  wife  herd  two  pale,  burned  children  up  the  beach.  The  dis-  tance  between  her  and  the  doctor's  wife's  inert  body  diminished;  he  had  an  urge  to  shout  a  warning,  then  smiled,  pictur-  ingthe  laughter  that  would  greet  this  story  when  they  were  home,  at  a  cock-  tail  party,  secure  among  their  own.  Abruptly  he  felt  guilty  in  relation  to  his  wife.  He  had  betrayed  her.  His  serious,  ness  had  been  unworthy  of  her.  She  would  have  wanted  him  to  say  yes,  her  grandfather  picked  cotton  in  [REDACTED],  in  [REDACTED]  these  things  are  taken  for  granted,  we  have  no  problem.  But  he  saw,  like  something  living  glimpsed  in  a  liquid  volume,  that  the  comedy  of  this  response  depended  upon,  could  only  live  within,  avast  and  unconscious  pride  of  race.  That  this  volume,  displaced,  would  be  a  weight  of  hate.  That  since  this  me-  dium  was  poisoned  all  its  creatures  must  be  evil.  That  he  and  the  doctor's  wife  were  immersed  together;  hehated  her  blue  eyes  because  they  were  pinned  to  his  face,  hated  the  taste  of  her  because-  could  it  be--she  was  dying.  His  guilt  could  not  be  mapped.  Its  intricacy  was  as  dense  as  a  simple  mass,  He  moved  backward  in  the  ocean,  touching  the  ribbed  bottom  with  his  toes,  until  the  water  wrapped  around  his  throat.  Some-  thing-seaweed  or  the  pulse  of  a  cur-  rent-touched  his  calf.  He  thrashed,  and  peered  down,  but  saw  nothing.  He  was  afraid  of  the  sharks,  and  he  was  afraid  of  the  doctor's  wife,  so  he  hung  there  between  them,  bleeding  shame,  while  the  ocean  forgave  him. "