 b"I  WAS  a  little  girl  of  about  nine  or  ten  when  I  first  became  aware  of  Mr.  Roundy,  our  next-door  neigh-  bor  in  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  My  mother  used  to  send  me  over  to  Mr.  Roundy's  houseevery  day  to  take  our  copy  of  the  [REDACTED]  Eagle  to  him.  He  sub-  scribed  to  the  [REDACTED]  Beacon,  the  rival  paper,  but  he  liked  to  read  both,  for  the  sake  of  comparison.  I  thought  for  a  long  time  that  Mr.  Roundy  was  after  the  news.  But  eventually  I  discovered  it  was  the  obituary  page  he  wanted.  The  Beacon  was  published  by  the  Le-  vand  brothers  and  gave  more  space  to  Jewish  obituaries.  The  Eagle  was  a  Re-  publican  organ  and  gave  more  space  to  political  obituaries.  Over  a  period  of  years,  Mr.  Roundy  kept  a  record  of  the  Sedgwick  County  deaths.  He  was  not  particularly  inter-  ested  in  who  died.  It  was  how  they  died  that  fascinated  him-and  alsoat  what  age  they  died.  Occasionally,  he  would  let  me  record  the  day's  statistics  for  him  in  his  record  book.  This  book  was  a  big,  ruled  ledger,  like  a  bookkeeper's.  Half  of  it  was  de-  voted  to  Causes  of  Death.  Most  of  the  other  half,  the  back  half,  was  a  Census  of  Ages.  When  I  handed  Mr.  Roundy  our  Eegle,  he  would  unlock  the  big  ledger  and  spread  it  open  on  my  knees.  Then  he  would  read  out  loud  the  per-  tinent  information  from  thepaper,  which  I  duly  recorded.  For  the  age  tabulations,  he  had  numbered  the  pages  from  twenty  to  a  hundred.  He  would  call  out,  &quot;Died  at  sixty-five!&quot;  and  I  would  turn  to  page  65  and  make  a  score  mark.  Then  he  would  call  out,  &quot;Heart  attack!&quot;  and  I  would  turn  to  the  page  labelled  &quot;Heart  Disease&quot;  and  make  an-  other  mark.  Keeping  the  record  of  the  ages  was  easy,  but  keeping  track  of  the  causes  of  death  was  not.  Mr.  Roundy  used  to  get  exasperated  at  euphemisms  like  &quot;aftera  long  illness.&quot;  &quot;That's  cancer,&quot;  he  would  say  irritably.  &quot;Why  do  they  pussyfoot  around?  Nothing  to  be  ashamed  of!&quot;  Also,  he  would  have  liked  more  specific  information  on  heart  deaths.  &quot;Must  have  been  thrombosis,&quot;  he  would  say  to  me  after  reading  off  a  case  of  heart  at-" b" tack.  &quot;The  old  boy  drank  like  a  fish.&quot;  Then,  shrugging,  he  would  add,  &quot;But  we  can't  be  sure.  Just  mark  it  under  l'  Mr.  Roundy's  commentary  was  usually  supplemented  by  comparative  asides,  such  as,  &quot;Died  at  fifty-six.  Liver.  Hmm  .  ..  Three  years  older  than  I  am.  Never  played  golf,  though.&quot;  There  was  still  another  section  of  the  ledger,  twenty  pages  at  the  back,  reserved  for  |.  Mr.  Roundy's  age  in  minutes,  with  1,440  added  at  the  end  of  each  day.  This  occupation  never  struck  me  as  morbid,  though  some  instinct  kept  me  from  telling  my  mother  about  it.  I  had  the  feeling  that  she  might  be  unreason-  able  about  my  participation.  I  never  once  thought  of  myself  in  connection  with  Mr,  Roundy's  statistics.  He  had  no  pages  for  anyone  under  twenty.  'Those  deaths  are  accidental,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Mismanagement  on  the  parents'  part.  Ball  up  the  record.&quot;  Since  I  was  far  under  twenty,  I  considered  myself  im-  mune-merely  a  curious  spectator.  Mr.  Roundy  himself  was  sick  only  |,  once,  as  far  as  I  know.  He  diagnosed  his  trouble-stomach,  I  think  it  was-  as  &quot;jumpy  nerves.&quot;  But  he  went  so  far  as  to  consult  the  medical  profession,  even  though  he  had  nothing  but  con-  tempt  for  it.  He  called  infive  doctors  and  had  each  of  them  examine  him  separately.  Then  he  sat  all  of  them  down  around  his  living-room  table  and  said,  &quot;I  want  each  of  you  birds  to  write  down  what  you  think  is  the  matter  with  me  in  clear,  two-syllable  English.  None  of  your  Latin  obscurities,  please.  I  will  read  all  the  papers  aloud.  Then  we'll  discuss  them,  and  then  decide  what  to  do.&quot;  After  Mr.  Roundy  retired  from  the  hardware  business,  he  set  to  work  doing  research  for  his  magnum  opus,  which  he  is  still  working  on.  The  idea  for  this  book  arose  from  his  annoyance  at  biog-  raphers,  who  almost  never  explained  to  his  satisfaction  what  great  historical  per-  sonages  died  of.  Mr.  Roundy  often  ex-  pounded  his  idea  to  me:  &quot;Caesar,  now-  that's  easy,  murder.  Napoleon,  cancer.  Louis  Fifteenth,  smallpox.&quot;  Then  he  would  frown  and  go  on,  &quot;But  look  at  the  hundreds  of  famous  people  who  'went  into  a  decline.&quot;  Look  at  Bloody  Mary.  She's  supposed  to  have  died  of  melancholy.  The  deuce  she  did!  And  what  about  all  those  people  who  died  of  'excess'?  It  isn't  so.  Tiberius  lived  to  be  seventy-eight.  Nero  was  as  healthy  as  a  horse.&quot;  Mr.  Roundy  was  thorough  in  his  re-  search.  His  method  was  to  read  as  many  biographies  of  one  person  as  he  could  find,  noting  down  all  symptoms  and  " b"illnesses  during  the  subject's  lifetime  as  well  asat  the  end.  Then,  placing  them  together,  he  made  his  own  common-  sense  diagnosis  of  the  cause  of  death.  He  was  working  on  the  Medici  family  when  I  went  away  to  college.  Y  family  moved  away  from  [REDACTED]  soon  afterward,  and  I  never  went  back.  But  occasionally  I  receive  a  Christmas  card  from  Mr.  Roundy,  who  is  seventy-nine  years  old  now.  He  never  fails  to  inform  me  of  the  stages  of  his  research.  'The  last  note  I  got  was  this:  &quot;Getting  to  Victorian  period.  Very  difficult.  Too  many  wrong  diagnoses  by  doctors  to  confuse  things.  Twentieth  will  be  even  worse,  with  vitamins  and  psychiatry!  Best  wishes.&quot;"