 b"MARIE,  the  blond,  squarish  hair-  dresser  in  a  shop  near  my  Greenwich  Village  apartment,  is  French,  and  she  does  my  hair  as  if  she  were  cooking  a  soup-silently  and  deftly.  With  her  pink  nylon  uniform  she  wears  the  kind  of  cobblestone  shoes  a  sensible  woman  would  go  marketing  in  to  pick  out  greens  and  a  good  marrow  bone.  I  don't  mean  that  Marie  is  stodgy.  She  has  a  flair  for  whatever  is  new  in  hairdos,  and  I  am  her  most  frustrating  customer  because  I  insist  on  being  flat  on  top.  I  have  held  out  politely  but  implacably  through  the  Italian  Mafia  Mobcap,  the  Emperor'sFez,  the  Queen  Beehive,  right  down  to  the  current  Tumbleweed.  At  the  beginning  of  our  relationship,  Marie  often  tried  to  sneak  in  a  few  swirls  or  a  bit  of  forehead  crimping,  but  over  the  years  she  seems  to  have  given  up  onme.  Occasionally,  as  she  parts  my  sopping,  putty-colored  hair,  she  mut-  ters,  &quot;Ou,  I  know,  plain  on  top.&quot;&quot;  With  her  accent,  this  comes  out  grudgingly,  &quot;Plengh  ongh  tope,&quot;  and  it  makes  clear  what  she  thinks  of  my  stubbornness.  Almost  all  I  know  about  her  is  that  she  came  over  from  [REDACTED]  sometime  after  the  Second  World  War,  is  married,  and  had  an  awful  time  with  an  abscessed  tootha  couple  of  months  ago.  All  she  knows  about  me  is  that  I'm  single,  and  set  in  my  ways.  WHEN  I  went  in  recently  for  a  one-o'clock  appointment,  Marie  and  I  settled  into  our  usual  silence.  There  was  only  one  other  customer,  under  a  dryer,  and  the  three  other  op-  erators,  all  men,  whom  the  owner  of  the  shop,  then  away  in  Bermuda,  refers  to  as  &quot;the  Boys,&quot;  were  in  the  back  room  where  the  employees  gather  to  eat  sand-  wiches  and  to  smoke  and  gossip.  Just  as  I  was  coming  up  from  the  second  rinse,  one  of  these  men  came  out  and  said  to  me,  &quot;Have  you  heard  about  Marie  being  a  police  siren?&quot;  Marie  giggled  and  hung  a  dry  towel  on  my  neck.  &quot;He  mean  I  scream  good,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Good!&quot;  he  exclaimed.  shattering.  I  haven't  been  the  same  since.&quot;  Just  then  a  customer  arrived,  and  he  left  us.  Naturally,  I  asked  Marie  what  she'd  been  screaming  about.  She  said  reticently,  &quot;Teef,&quot;  and  be-  gan  combing  my  hair,  to  set  it.  I  remembered  the  abscessed  tooth,  andhad  the  sudden  notion  that  the  pain  must  have  hit  other  &quot;teef.&quot;  &quot;He  came  in  bawk  door  there,&quot;  she  &quot;It  was " b"said,  pointing  with  the  comb,and  I  abandoned  the  teeth  theory.  The  afternoon  before,  she  told  me,  she  had  gone  to  the  employees'  room  for  a  cigarette  between  customers,  and  no-  ticed  a  man  going  out  the  back  door.  I  should  explain  that  the  hair  salon  is  on  the  ground  floor  of  a  modest  hotel.  The  front  entrance  of  the  salon  is  sepa-  rate,  but  its  back  door,  at  the  end  of  a  narrow  passageway  beyond  the  em-  ployees'  room,  opens  onto  the  hotel's  rear  corridor.  Repairmen  and  the  win-  dow-cleaner  often  come  and  go  through  that  door,  and  occasionally  a  male  guest  staying  in  the  hotel  wanders  into  the  hair  salon  by  mistake.  I  couldn't  under-  stand  how  Marie,  just  by  glancing  at  a  stranger's  back  as  he  went  out,  knew  that  he  hadn't  merely  wandered  in  or  come  to  fix  something,  but  was  a  &quot;teef.&quot;  When  I  asked  her  about  this,  she  said  that  she  was  instantly  suspicious  because  she  had  forty  dollars  in  her  purse,  which  she  had  left  in  the  employees'  room.  As  the  man  disappeared,  Marie,  with-  out  even  waiting  to  check  her  purse,  simply  started  screaming,  and  gave  chase.  Her  quarry  ran  down  the  hotel  corridor,  past  the  kitchen,  and  out  through  the  delivery  entrance,  with  Marie  after  him.  She  has  very  short  legs,  and  she  said  the  man  was  a  &quot;beeg&quot;  fel-  low,  but  her  screams  must  have  confused  him,  because  she  caught  up  with  him  at  the  corner  of  Twelfth  Street,  grabbed  his  arm,  and  went  on  yelling.  The  Village  is  not  like  uptown  New  York.  We  often  go  up  to  somebody  in  a  friendly  way  to  find  out  why  he  or  she  is  screaming.  Several  passersby  stopped  to  see  what  the  trouble  was,  Marie  said.  Meanwhile,  as  she  later  learned,  the  male  operators  from  the  hair  salon,  who  hadn't  seen  the  intruder  and  knew  only  that  Marie  had  rushed  out  screaming,  were  running  up  and  down  the  rear  cor-  ridor  and  into  the  kitchen,  trying  to  find  her.  Her  screams  were  still  so  loud  the  men  kept  thinking  she  was  somewhere  close  at  hand.  It  took  them  several  min-  utes  to  track  the  noise  to  the  street.  At  the  time,there  were  three  cus-  tomers  in  the  hair  salon,  and  these  wom-  en,  who  knew  only  that  they  had  been  deserted  and  that  somebody  was  scream-  ing,  grew  restive.  One  of  them  sudden-  ly  bolted  out  the  front  door,  and  the  others  went  after  her.  Two  of  them  were  wearing  the  shop's  pink  seersucker  kimonos,  which  are  cut  like  hospital  gowns.  One  woman's  head  was  in  the  preliminary  stage  of  a  dye  job,  bright  orange,  with  a  band  around  her  fore-  head.  Even  as  Greenwich  Village  sights  go,  they  made  quite  an  unusual  group-  ing  as  they  reached  the  corner  and " b"joined  the  screaming  Marie,  her  six-foot  catch,  the  male  operators,  the  passersby,  and  some  tourists  hung  with  cameras,  who  had  popped  out  of  a  nearby  bar.  T  wo  of  the  men  held  the  man  Marie  had  chased,  somebody  else  phoned  the  police,  and  one  man,  not  a  tourist,  who  had  come  out  of  the  bar  with  his  drink  in  hand,  gave  it  to  Marie  as  a  quieting  influence.  When  a  patrol  car  arrived,  the  police  found  that  the  man  had  not  only  Marie's  forty  dollars  but  two  hotel  waiters'  wallets  as  well,  and  a  few  un-  identified  five-dollar  bills,  all  presumably  snatched  on  that  one  visit.  &quot;He  is  droog  addicte,&quot;  Marie  ex-  plained  to  me.  'The  police,  when  they  got  him  to  the  station,  had  to  give  him  an  injection.  She  had  learned  this  when,  escorted  by  her  husband,  she  appeared  in  court  the  next  morning,  several  hours  before  my  appointment  with  her.  &quot;My  husband  say  I  take  terrible  chance,&quot;  Marie  went  on.  &quot;Droog  ad-  dictes  have  knifes.&quot;  She  jabbed  the  comb  into  her  stomach,  to  illustrate  the  fate  she'd  escaped.  I  wasn't  as  worked  up  over  the  possi-  bility  ofa  stabbing  as  I  was  over  her  chasing  a  man  before  she  had  any  real  idea  of  what  he'd  been  up  to,  if  any-  thing.  &quot;What  would  you  have  done  if  he'd  been  innocent?&quot;  I  asked  her.  Marie  shrugged.  This  was  a  meta-  physical  realm  she  chose  not  to  enter.  The  subject  was  closed.  The  money  was  back  in  her  purse-or,  rather,  the  police  receipt  for  it.  They  were  holding  the  cash  as  evidence.  I  had  been  so  engrossed  in  her  story  that  when  I  finally  glanced  in  the  mir-  ror,  as  she  put  a  hair  net  on  me,  I  thought  I  must  be  looking  at  the  reflec-  tion  of  the  woman  in  the  next  chair.  But  it  was  my  head,  all  right,  and  it  was  cov-  ered  with  red  wire  rollers  like  little  sausages.  In  her  excitement,  Marie  had  evidently  forgotten  whose  hair  this  was,  and  her  deft  fingers  had  automatically  turned  out  the  most  popular  model,  a  Tumbleweed.  I  decided  this  was  no  time  to  be  fussy.  She  was,  after  all,  an  artiste,  and  my  hairdo  had  to  express  all  the  turmoil  she'd  been  through.  Oddly  enough,  even  when  she  combed  me  out,  a  tossing  of  curls  with  not  one  flat  inch  showing  anywhere,  she  seemed  not  to  notice  what  she'd  done,  though  she  looked  quietly  content.  I  went  home  and  brushed  until  my  scalp  was  sore,  but  a  Tumbleweed  has  more  staying  power  than  you'd  think,  for  the  first  twenty-four  hours.  Every-  body  who  saw  me  during  that  time  said  it  was  the  most  becoming  hairdo  I'd  everhad."