     MRS.  KENNEDY  S  CABINET  AYBE  Jacqueline  Bouvier  M  Kennedy  wouldn't  have  reached  the  White  House  en-  tirely  on  her  own-back  of  every  suc-  cessful  woman  you'll  find  a  man-but  I  think  it's  becoming  obvious  that  she  has  as  strong  a  personality  as  her  husband's,  and  that  she  will  keep  as  firm  a  hand  on  the  First  Ladyship  as  he's  expected  to  keep  on  the  Presidency.  I  base  this  conclusion  on  a  study  of  her  cabinet  appointments  to  date,  which  in  many  ways  furnish  a  remarkable  parallel  to  the  President-clect's  appointments  to  Ais  cabinet.  Not  that  Mrs.  Kennedy  is  a  copycat;  if  there  are  bold  strokes  to  be  noted  on  both  sides  of  the  family,  the  record  will  show  that  Mrs.  Kennedy  has  almost  always  been  the  one  to  make  them  first.  C.  Douglas  Dillon  and  Le-  titia  Baldrige  are  acase  in  point.  No  doubt  Mr.  Kennedy  took  something  of  a  political  chance  in  naming  Mr.  Dillon  his  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.  Mr.  Dil-  lon,  who  was  at  Harvard  some  years  ahead  of  Mr.  Kennedy,  is  not  only  a  Republican  but  an  important  member  of  the  outgoing  administration,  and  once  served  it  as  Ambassador  to  [REDACTED],  and  his  appointment  caused  a  good  many  Democrats  in  [REDACTED]  to  complain  that  Mr.  Kennedy's  courage  had  carried  him  too  far.  Well,  but  what  of  Mrs.  Kennedy's  courage  when,  sev-  eral  weeks  before  her  husband  chose  Dillon,  she  chose  Miss  Baldrige,  who  was  at  Vassar  a  few  years  ahead  ofher,  to  be  her  social  secretary?  Miss  Bal-  drige  (once  social  secretary  to  Mrs.  David  Bruce,  wife  of  the  then  Ambassa-  dor  to  [REDACTED])  is  not  only  a  Republican  buthas  served  as  social  secretary  to  former  Ambassador  to  Italy  Clare  Boothe  Luce.  If  that  isn't  going  pretty  far,  1'd  like  to  know  what  is.  More  conventional  on  the  part  of  the  two  Kennedys  were  the  Ribicoff  and  Mr.  Kenneth-of-Lilly-Daché  appoint-  ments.  Governor  Ribicoff  had  been  one  of  the  earliest  Kennedy  backers,  and  it  is  well  within  the  American  tradition  for  members  of  a  President's  cabinet  to  in-  clude  close  political  associates.  Though  Mr.  Kennedy  may  have  made  no  pre-  election  commitments  to  Governor  Rib-  icoff,  it  would  certainly  have  led  to  raised  eyebrows  if  the  Governor  had  been  overlooked.  We  observe  precisely  the  same  situation  in  regard  to  Mr.  Kenneth.  He  was  for  Mrs.  Kennedy  not  only  before  Los  Angeles  and  before  Wisconsin  but  before  1960,  and  it  was  a  foregone  conclusion  among  political  analysts  that  he  would  get  the  postof  inauguration  hairdresser.  When  the  of-  ficial  announcement  came,  it  caused  understandably  few  headlines.  Of  more  interest  to  the  press  because  it  was  more  likely  to  lead  to  controversy  was  Mrs.  Kennedy's  inviting  a  family  friend,  William  Walton,  to  help  her  choose  which  paintings  to  hang  in  the  White  House  during  the  Kennedys'  pe-  riod  of  residence  there.  In  artistic  cir-  cles,  this  characteristic  invitation  stirred  up  as  much  excitement  as  Mrs.  Ken-  nedy's  husband  stirred  up  in  other  circles  by  naming  Arthur  Goldberg  his  Secre-  tary  of  Labor.  Mr.  Goldberg  is  a  labor  lawyer,  and  his  principal  work  has  long  been  in  a  particular  branch  of  the  labor  movement-with  industrial  rather  than  craft  unions.  Mr.  Walton  is  a  painter  and  has  long  been  identified  with  a  par-  ticular  school  of  painting.  It  was  thought  that,  as  an  abstract  artist,  he  might  tend  to  favor  his  fellow  abstract  artists  over  the  academics,  as  Mr.  Goldberg  might  favor  the  C.I.O.  over  the  A.F.L.  Traditional  painters  got  the  wind  up  and  publicly  deplored  the  probable  con-  sequences  of  Mrs.  Kennedy's  action,  but  the  lady  herself  remained  every  bit  as  cool  in  the  face  of  these  criti-  cisms  as  her  husband  was  in  respect  to  criticisms  of  his  appointment  of  Mr.  Goldberg.  T  may  be  worth  noting,  by  the  way,  that  the  Kennedys  are  alike  not  alone  in  their  boldness  and  coolness  but  in  taking  their  time  about  things.  A  month  after  their  election,  Mr.  Kennedy  was  without  a  Secretary  of  State  and  the  First  Lady-to-be  was  without  a  dress  designer-the  most  important  members  of  their  respective  cabinets.  For  weeks,  the  press  speculated  that  the  new  Secretary  of  State  would  be  Stevenson,  Bowles,  or  Bruce;  all  that  seemed  certain  about  the  new  dress  de-  signer  was  that  it  wouldn't  be  Nettie  Rosenstein,  who  had  made  Mrs.  Eisen-  hower's  inaugural  gowns.  On  Decem-  ber  10th,  the  Times  ran  a  headline  say-  ing,  &quot;Choice  of  Bruce  for  Secretary  of  State  Hinted,&quot;  and  at  the  same  time  gossip  on  Seventh  Avenue,  admittedly  bitter  in  tone,  held  that  Dior  would  get  the  dress-designing  post.  Three  days  later,  the  truth  was  out.  On  page  1  of  the  Times,  the  world  was  informed  that  Mr.  Kennedy  had  appointed  Dean  Rusk  as  his  Secretary  of  State,  and  on  page  38  of  the  Times  that  Mrs.  Kennedy  had  ap-  pointed  Oleg  Cassini  as  her  dress  de-  signer.  Since  both  announcements  ap-  peared  on  the  same  date,  historians  may  never  know  which  Kennedy  made  the      earlier  appointment,  but  they  will  note  that  in  both  cases  the  Kennedys  picked  comparatively  dark  horses.  Finally,  historians  will  also  note  that  though  Mr.  Kennedy  chose  Dean  Rusk  as  Secretary  of  State,  he  awarded  a  high  sub-Cabinet  post  to  Chester  Bowles.  For  her  part,  Mrs.  Kennedy,  by  special  ap-  pointment,  awarded  the  creationof  her  inaugural  gown  to  Bergdorf  Goodman,  and  it  is,  I  think,  significant  that  Berg-  dorf  is  making  the  gown  from  sketches  drawn  by  Mrs.  Kennedy  herself.  Ap-  parently  her  appointees,  like  her  hus-  band's,  will  play  important  roles  but  mainly  in  the  execution  of  policy.  Those  who  know  Jacqueline  Kennedy  will  tell  you  that  she  intends  to  be  her  own  First  Lady.