 b"FOR  a  number  of  years,  I  have  Fwatched  with  growing  interest  the  effect  of  Christmas  on  the  columns  of  certain  publications  that,  carried  away  by  the  gift-giving  aspect  of  the  season,  tell  their  readers  what  sort  of  present  they  should  give  each  other.  I  am  sure  the  effort  of  getting  up  these  lists  is  meant  kindly,  but  I  am  con-  stantly  astonished  at  the  things  they  con-  tain.  I  ask  myself  if  these  are  the  pres-  ents  Americans  really  do  exchange  on  Christmas  Day,  and  always  the  answer  is  no.  They  may  suit  a  handful  of  arch-  sophisticates,  but  they  do  not  represent  the  rest  of  us.  For  this  reason,  I  have  ventured  to  write  a  supplement.  It's  as  American  as  the  nutburger.  I  have  selected  my  pres-  ents  (and  many  of  my  words)  from  the  catalogues  of  the  great  Christmas  mail-  order  houses  that  dot  our  land  and  that  in  a  real  sense  symbolize  American-style  giving.  Every  single  item  can  be  pur-  chased  anywhere  in  the  country-as  easily  here  in  Thetford,  [REDACTED],  or  down  in  [REDACTED]  as  on  Fifth  [REDACTED].  But  enough.  It's  time  to  get  started.  I've  organized  my  list  in  categories,  and  since  I'm  a  man,  I'll  start  with  presents  for  us.  NE  of  the  very  nicest  things  a  man  can  receive  is  something  with  his  own  name  on  it.  For  example,  any  man  who  wears  shoes  and  socks  (and  these  days  which  of  us  doesn't?)  would  be  glad  to  have  a  Person-  alized  Sox  Box  from  Bancroft's,  2170  South  Canalport  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED]  8.  The  Sox  Box,  which  closely  resembles  a  subway  chew-  ing-gum  dispenser,  will  hang  on  any  wall,  and  it  holds  a  full  week's  supply  of  hose.  The  first  name  of  the  recipient  is  boldly  hand-lettered  across  the  top,  thus:  &quot;Henry's  SoxBox.&quot;  The  Box  sells  for  $2.95  plus  fifty  cents  postage.  Bancroft's,  which  has  plenty  of  im-  agination,  also  offers  a  personalized  hol-  ster  for  what  it  calls  pipe-totin'  papas.  Made  of  high-quality  saddle  leather,  the  holster  attaches  tobelt  or  suspenders  and  neatly  holds  a  man's  favorite  pipe,  stem  down.  Dominating  the  holster,  even  with  apipe  in  situ,  are  the  smoker's  ini-  tials,  a  good  inch  high.  The  price  is  $1.30  plus  thirty-five  cents  postage.  (Be  sure  to  specify  the  initials  when  order-  ing.)  A  more  unusual  present  for  the  out-  door  man  is  a  personal  branding  iron.  It's  an  eleven-inch  bronze-and-wood  af-  fair,  which,  when  properly  heated,  will  e  burn  three  trim  Gothic  initials  into  al-  most  anything.  Breck's,  100  Breck  Building,  [REDACTED]  10,  which  sells  them  for  $3.95  postage  paid,  suggests  that  they  be  used  to  mark  luggage  and  sports  equipment,  but  presumably  they  would  work  justas  well  on  the  children  or  one's  own  ankles.  A  handsome  paperweight  for  a  busi-  nessman's  desk  is  available  from  Sunset  House,  Sunset  Building,  Beverly  Hills,  [REDACTED].  This,  sensibly,  does  not  come  personalized.  In  Sunset's  own  words,  it  &quot;looks  like  polished  granite,  but  it's  just  a  heavy,  realistic  tombstone  in  minia-  ture  hydrocal.&quot;  The  necrophilic  little  fellows  (they're  four  and  three-quarters  inches  high)  sell  for  $1  plus  thirty-five  cents  postage.  A  very  masculine  present  from  Sun-  set  House  that  does  come  personalized  is  its  famous  Snooty  Plaque.  Gleam-  ing  in  nickel  plate,  these  small  (one  by  three  inches)  plaques  are  a  sort  of  riposte  to  the  age  of  mass  produc-  tion.  For  example,  suppose  you  are  one  among  the  millions  of  Chevrolet  owners  in  the  country  but  you'd  like  to  feel  a  little-well,  different.  Sunset  will  send  you  a  Snooty  Plaque  that  says,  &quot;This  car  made  especially  for  &quot;  and  what-  ever  your  name  is,  they'll  engrave  it  deep  in  the  metal.  They  have  similar  little  individualizers  for  boats,  houses,  trailers,  and  even  phonographs.  All  come  with  adhesive  backs  for  easy  attaching,  and  all  are  $1  plus  a  thirty-five-cent  mailing  charge.  Finally,  for  men  who  have  trouble  winning  at  cards,  I  suggest  a  marked  bridge  deck  from  Emma  and  Jed's  Country  Store,  Hill-  side  1,  New  Jersey.  The  markings  are  so  discreet  that  even  experts  will  be  baffled,  Emma  and  Jed  say.  Just  to  keep  them  baffled-wheth-  er  with  card  tricks  or  in  the  course  of  making  a  redoubled  grand  slam-the  store  includes  an  elaborate  set  of  in-  structions  with  each  pack.  Deck  and  directions  cost  $1.25  plus  thirty-five  cents  postage.     id  URNING  now  to  women,  I've  an  abundance  of  personalized  treas-  ures  for  them,  too.  One  that  has  especial-  ly  caught  my  fancy  is  a  made-to-order  plastic  mold  for  desserts.  &quot;Now!  Your  Name  in  Jell-O  for  Personal  Holiday  Entertaining,&quot;  says  the  house  that  sells  it,  and  that's  as  good  a  description  as  any.  A  friendly  message  may  be  stamped  right  in  the  bottom  of  the  mold  along  with  any  woman's  name.  Bancroft's  has" b"the  molds  for  $2.50  plus  thirty-five  cents  postage.  For  less  domestic  name-spreaders,  there's  a  gay  red  personalized  umbrella  on  the  market.  Made  of  sturdy  acetate,  these  umbrellas  come  with  some  lucky  girl's  or  woman's  name  lettered  in  huge  white  script  across  the  top.  The  script  is  so  large  that,  as  the  catalogue  points  out,  every  passerby  &quot;will  know  the  identity  of  the  gay  sprite  lilting  through  the  rain.&quot;  The  umbrellas  are  $2.49,  post-  age  included,  from  Miles  Kimball,  41  Eighth  [REDACTED],  Oshkosh,  [REDACTED].  We  all  know  that  women  like  to  be  considerate.  A  new  height  in  considera-  tion  is  made  possible  by  Max  Schling  Seedsmen,  Inc.,right  down  there  in  New  York.  Schling  has  a  handsome  alarm  clock  that  enablesa  woman  to  wake  herself  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  (perhaps  to  go  make  some  Jell-O  )  without  rousing  her  husband.  How  has  it  been  managed?  By  dividing  the  clock  into  two  parts.  The  main  portion,  look-  ing  like  any  other  clock,  sits  on  abedside  table.  But  the  actual  alarm  fits  into  a  separate  heart-shaped  case  that  can  be  slipped  under  one's  pillow.  (It's  con-  nected  to  the  rest  ofthe  clock  by  a  cord  called  the  &quot;heartstring.&quot;)  The  gentle  summons  is  thus  audible  only  to  one  sleeper.  Known  as  Love  Alarm,  the  clock  costs  $13.95,  plus  a  seventy-five-  cent  handling  charge.  Schling's  address  is  538  Madison  [REDACTED],  New  York  22.  Another  nice  present  for  a  woman  is  a  nosegay  of  whiskey-scented  artificial  tulips,  from  Emma  and  Jed.  Each  of  these  long-lasting  plastic  tulips  has  a  hidden  vial  at  the  bottom  of  the  stem  that  will  hold  a  month's  smelling  supply  of  any  liquor.  A  special  channel  draws  the  aroma  up  to  the  flower  and  keeps  it  in  full  force  for  thirty  days.  For  a  weak-headed  woman,  it  would  be  like  going  to  thirty  cocktail  parties  a  month.  The  tulips  are  $1.49  each;  a  bouquet  of  four  would  come  to  $5.96  plus  forty-  five  cents  postage.  RESENTS  for  children  are  un-  usually  plentiful  this  year.  One  of  my  favorites  comes  from  Mercury  Prod-  ucts,  1265  [REDACTED],  New  York  1.  It's  a  miniature  television  chair  for  toddlers,  made  of  natural-finish  hard-  wood  with  gay  painted  slats.  Stencilled  on  the  back  and  seat-two  lines  to  each-is  a  charming  child's  verse:  My  name  is  BILLY  and  when  I  rest  I  likethis  little  Chair  the  best.  It's  just  the  proper  size  for  me  To  see  the  shows  on  my  TV.  Mercury  is  prepared  to  put  any  child's  name,  up  to  and  including  Bartholo-  " b"mew,  in  the  first  line,  and  to  send  you  the  chair  for  $3.95  plus  fifty  cents  postage.  For  wear  while  sitting  in  the  minia-  ture  TV  chair,  I  am  recommending  a  remarkable  new  slipper  called  the  Lux-  urious  Puppy  Sluffie.  Though  made  of  spun  plastic  and  rubber,  each  Sluffic  strikingly  resembles  an  actual  dog's  head,  completewith  ears,  eyes,  nose,  and  mouth;  the  toes  of  the  small  wearer  supply  the  effect  of  teeth.  But  the  cata-  logue  puts  it  better  than  I  can:  &quot;Fluffy,  furry  bow-wow  slippers  snuggle  tots'  feet-I1i'l  toes  peek  out  mouth!&quot;  The  Sluffies  come  in  pink  or  white  and  are  $2.49,  postage  paid,  from  Breck's.  Older  children  will  like  personalized  T  shirts,  which  come  in  a  greater  range  this  year  than  I  ever  remember.  Glass-  craft,  920  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  Evanston,  [REDACTED],  for  example,  has  special  ones  for  grandparents  to  give.  They  are  good-  quality  cotton  shirts  with  a  personal  message  lettered  prominently  on  the  chest,  such  as  &quot;Grandma  Loves  Jim-  my&quot;  or  &quot;Grandpa  Loves  Debbie.&quot;  The  &quot;o&quot;  in  &quot;Loves&quot;  is  shaped  like  aheart  with  an  arrow  through  it.  The  shirts  are  $1.25  apiece  plus  fifteen  cents  postage.  Another  appealing  present  for  chil-  dren,  from  Bancroft's,  is  a  &quot;Bike  Put-  Put,&quot;  which  can  be  attached  to  any  bicycle  or  tricycle.  &quot;Though  not  a  mo-  tor,&quot;  says  Bancroft's,  &quot;it  sounds  like  the  real  thing.  Can  be  heard  at  long  dis-  tances,  warning  motorists  of  your  child's  presence.&quot;  It  presumably  performs  this  function  for  non-motorists  as  well.  The  Put-Put  costs  seventy-nine  cents  plus  thirty-five  cents  postage.  PROBLEM  we  all  face  at  Christmastime  is  what  to  do  about  married  couples.  Where,  oh,  where  can  we  find  joint  presents  that  won't  out-  rageously  favor  one  spouse  over  the  oth-  er?  Well,  one  place  is  Helen  Gallagher-  Foster  House,  413  Fulton  Street,  Peoria,  [REDACTED].  A  pleasantly  sentimental  please-them-both  present  from  Gal-  lagher-Foster  would  bea  Kissin'  Kitten  Cottage  Cheese  Jar.  As  the  name  im-  plies,  the  jar,  which  is  white  with  gay  trim,  has  a  brace  of  embracing  kittens  on  the  lid.  Besides  serving  a  decora-  tive  function,  the  affectionate  kittens  make  a  convenient  handle.  The  jar  costs  ninety-nine  cents  plus  fifty  cents  postage.  If  you've  real  money  to  spend  and  you  know  a  young  couple  who  dance,  you  might  want  to  ship  them  a  Fabulous  Jr.  Juke  from  Emma  and  Jed's.  It  will  remind  them  of  their  courting  " b"days.  This  three-foot-tall,  many-colored  music-maker  does  not  have  the  select-o-  matic  feature  of  real  jukeboxes,  but  it  looks  as  if  it  did.  Agleam  with  chromium  and  bright  lights,  it  sports  a  double  row  of  simulated  push  buttons  all  across  the  front.  And  it  actually  does  play  records.  Emma  and  Jed  will  deliver  a  Jr.  Juke  anywhere  in  the  country  for  $49.95.  A  de-luxe  model  with  automatic  record-  changer  costs  $79.95.  My  final  suggestion  is  a  very  practi-  cal  gift  for  a  couple  (or  an  entire  house-  hold,  for  that  matter),  and  one  that  should  be  particularly  welcome  after  the  excitement  of  opening  gifts-a  precision  sphygmomanometer  from  Damar's,  270  Damar  Building,  Elizabeth,  New  Jersey.  With  this  handy  device  (and  using  the  easy-to-follow  instructions),  the  rankest  amateur  can  take  blood  pressures  with  surprising  accuracy.  Husband  and  wife  can  check  each  other  daily-even  oftener,  if  they  wish.  After  the  first  few  times,  they'll  be  reading  off  the  pressure  without  fuss  orbother,  Damar's  says.  (It  recommends  con-  stant  checks.)  The  sphygmomanome-  ter,  which  comes  in  a  handsome  zip-  pered  case,  is  $19.95  plus  postage.  I  am  ordering  one  for  myself,  along  with  a  new  headgear  to  wear  while  using  it-  Kissin'  Mistle,  The  Space  Age  Buzz  Bonnet,  Damar's,  $1.50  plus  postage.  A  headband  of  glittering  plastic  supports  a  simply  gigantic  piece  of  mistletoe  about  three  inches  above  the  wearer's  head.  &quot;Have  more  fun  than  anyone,&quot;  Damar's  urges,  and  I  intend  to.  See  you  under  the  Christmas  tree!"