 b"TURNING  theold  house  over  to  I  Guy  and  Susan  Osborne,  Susan's  Aunt  Val  said,  &quot;Children,  have  I  mentioned  this  before?  You  may  hear  someone  prowling  in  the  garden  at  night.  The  place  is  stiff  with  smugglers  now.  They  come  down  from  4974616c79,  along  the  top  of  that  cliff.&quot;  She  pointed  in  the  direction  of  the  frontier-a  hand-  some  red  cliff  over  which  falcons  cried  and  flew.  Theirshadows  slid  impartially  on  the  fields  of  4974616c79  and  [REDACTED].  But  Guy  and  Susan  couldnot  see  anything  except  the  dining-room  wall.  Along  this  wall,  an  army  of  red  ants  bore  the  foun-  dations  of  the  house  up  to  the  roof.  One  day  the  house  would  fall,  the  walls  tunnelled  to  paper.  If  it  collapsed  down  on  their  heads  at  this  moment,  at  lunch,  Aunt  Val  would  not  have  been  surprised.  Every  crumb  of  wood,  every  floating  speck  of  dust  was  disastrous.  Aunt  Val  knew.  Her  hands  flew  out  to  the  newly  married  pair  in  gestures  of  warning.  Her  hair  was  made  of  old  doll  stuffing;  her  hair  net  was  down  to  her  eyes.  She  was  in  true  terror,  not  over  the  smugglers,  orthe  ants,  but  lest  Guy  should  demand  the  last  of  the  macaroni-  and-cheese.  Guy  could  not  know,  of  course,  how  important  it  was  that  the  last  of  every  dish  be  spooned  onto  one  special,  thick-rimmed  china  plate,  and  how  this  plate  must  be  kept  in  the  larder,  in  the  dark,  until  the  food  upon  it  spoiled.  Hoping  to  distract  him,  glancing  else-  where,  Aunt  Val  said,  &quot;Not  only  smugglers  but,  you  know,  Guy,  shift-  less  young  men.  Young  men  without  jobs,  with  nothing  to  do.&quot;  That  was  tactless;  Guy  was  also  unemployed.  &quot;Italians,  I  mean  to  say,&quot;  said  Aunt  Val  hurriedly.  &quot;They  wouldn't  do  a  day's  work  if  you  offered  solid  gold.&quot;  Would  Guy?  &quot;I  mean  the  sort  of  young  men  who  would  murder  one  for  a  pair  of  shoes!&quot;  the  old  lady  cried.  Whatever  else  you  could  say  about  poor  dear  Guy,  he  was  no  murderer.  SO  that  was  the  autumn  prospect.  But  Guy  kept  smiling,  saying  &quot;Yes&quot;  and  &quot;Quite,&quot;  turning  his  water  glass  around  and  around,  as  though  being  murdered  for  his  shoes  were  part  of  the  season's  plan.  Old  Val  could  have  been  just  a  little  more  lavish,  he  thought.  Water  to  drink,  and  the  mucilage  cheese.  The  house  was  full  of  ants,  and  the  windows,  which  were  dirty,  were  smeared  with  rain,.  'The  most  disobliging  sight  in  nature  was  provided  by  the  view-palm  trees  under  a  dark  sluice  of  rain.  Beyond  a  drenched  hedge  stood  a  house  exactly  like  Aunt  Val's,  with  spires,  minarets,  stained-glass  windows;  possibly  it,  too,  contained  a  drawing  room  stuffed  with  ferns  and  sheeted  sofas.  The  houses  were  part  of  agenteel  settlement,  built  in  an  era  of  jaunty  Islamic-English  design,  in  a  back  pocket  of  the  Riviera  country.  The  district  was  out  of  fashion,  crum-  bling,  but  the  houses  persisted;  dragging  their  rock  gardens,  their  humped  ten-  nis  courts,  they  marched  down  the  slope  ofa  tamed  minor  Alp.  In  theold  days,  Aunt  Val  said,  ex-  cept  for  the  trees  and  the  climate  and  the  conversation  of  servants,  one  needn't  have  ever  known  this  was  [REDACTED].  That  was  how  they  had  liked  being  abroad  then.  &quot;Abroad&quot;  meant  keeping  warm,  pudding  at  Christmas,  a  mutable,  mer-  chants'  [REDACTED]  everywhere  you  went.  The  people  in  Villa  Omar  and  Villa  Khartoum  had  been  rich  butnot  re-  ceived;  they  hadn't  cared.  They  re-  ceived  one  another  for  tennis  parties  and  fat,  starchy  teas.  Well,  it  was  over,  Aunt  Val  said.  Now  one  knew  this  was  [REDACTED],  There  were  enormous  taxes  to  pay.  Servants  were  scarce.  ...  The  conversation  might  have  been  in  [REDACTED].  Yet  it  was  really  [REDACTED];  thirty  miles  away  was  the  true  Riviera-  white  houses  bristling  with  balconies,  yachts,  flags.  Guy  thought  of  that  and  pulled  himself  straighter  in  his  chair.  Pale-eyed,  old  war  hero,  nearly  success-  ful  salesman-of  nearly  anything-he  thought  of  the  flags  and  the  yachts,  and  of  the  present,  with  its  gains  and  rewards.  Susan  was  looking  at  the  ants  on  the  wall  as  if  she  were  in  a  dream.  She  fell  naturally  into  pretty  positions,  although  she  was  not  a  truly  pretty  girl.  In  an  ugly  mood-which  Guy  had  still  to  see-she  might  resemble  a  pug;  when  her  face  was  not  reflecting  solemnity  or  inquisi-  tiveness,  it  tended  to  crumple.  Her  ideas,  her  affections,  were  based  on  her  having  been  all  her  life  somebody's  favorite  godchild  or  niece.  Watchful-  ness  made  her  seem  without  expression.  That  look-empty,  receptive-and  her  light,  straight  hair  caused  her  to  be  compared  to  a  medieval  pageboy  or  a  picture-book  Anglo-Saxon  girl,  un-  coarsened  by  Norman  blood.  Even  Guy,  who  was  twenty-two  yearsolder  than  his  wife  and  surely  centuries  wiser,  could  mumble  about  porcelain  cheeks  and  silken  hair.  It  exasperated  her;  she  knew  about  reality-her  father  had  swindled  a  large  sum  of  money  once,  and  they  had  left  4b656e7961  and  never  gone   back.  She  had  been  told  only  that  they  could  never  live  out  in  Africa  again,  and  that  there  had  been  a  plot,  of  which  her  father  was  the  victim.  No  one  would  help  or  trust  him,  or  give  him  a  job.  Then  both  parents  died;  more  mystery.  She  persistently  went  back  to  sources  now,  looking  for  specific  explanations  of  so  many  puzzling  affairs.  She  was  eighteen,  and  she  had  thought  that  mar-  riage  was  in  itself  an  explicit  sort  of  answer.  Guy  was  sure  that  Susan  was  not  listening  to  Aunt  Val.  He  felt  as  if  he  had  been  left  stranded  ata  party  with  the  only  bore.  He  tried  to  touch  her  foot  under  the  table.  He  deplored  Susan's  constant  worry  and  thought.  As  he  said,  it  put  him  off.  It  was  all  too  deep.  If  only  the  poor  little  thing  had  been  through  something  really  big-  the  war.  Susan  looked  at  the  ants,  but  she  was  listening  to  Aunt  Val.  Sometimes  out  of  her  aunt's  dotty  wanderings  came  one  sharp,  disconcerting  observation-just  what  Susan  liked.  Here  where  there  werepalm  trees  under  rain  and  cypress-  es  as  soaked  as  sponges  there  had  once  been  a  wilderness,  with  wild  apricot  and  almond  trees,  and  the  olive  groves  left  behind  by  the  Greeks,  Aunt  Val  said,  and  you  could  always  tell  where  there  had  been  a  nice  English  garden  by  two  things-cypress  trees  and  palms.  Now  the  gardens  were  going  back  to  wilderness  again.  The  suburban  moun-  tainside  belonged  to  falcons,  peasants,  smugglers,  and  a  few  survivors  of  the  old  days.  But  it  was  an  ordered  wilderness,  properly  reforested,  with  drains,  and  pampas  grass,  and  tout  confort.  Fortunately  for  Guy,  who  would  not  knowingly  have  en-  tered  any  kind  of  wilderness,  there  would  be  people  about,  agree-  able  people,  English-speaking-English,  in  fact.  A  neighbor,  Major  Terry,  had  been  in  to  see  them  before  lunch.  Yellow-toothed,  smelling  of  unwashed  woollen  garments  and  cold  tobacco  pipes,  dragged  by  a  slavering  boxer  dog  on  a  lead,  Major  Terry  entered  the  drawing  room,  sat  on  a  sheeted  sofa,  and  could  not  take  his  eyes  away  from  Guy's  wife.  Susan  had  dropped,  sulk-  ing,  into  her  chair.  She  wore  tight  Italian  trousers,  a  black  pullover,  beads.  The  costume  was  a  reaction  from  the  things  she  had  been  made  to  wear  in  school,  and  her  slight,  sullen  common-  ness  was  a  stand  in  favor  of  reality.  &quot;Be  sure  to  bring  your  little  mem-sahib,&quot;  said  the  Major,  inviting  Guy  to  look  at  anything-a  chicken  run,  a  blue  hibiscus,  some  bound  issues  of  Country  " b"Life.  There  hadn't  been  anything  like  Susan  about  for  years.  &quot;Did  you  hear  that  man?&quot;  said  Susan  gravely,  twisting  the  beads,  after  the  Major  had  departed.  &quot;Did  you  hear  what  he  called  me?  'Mem-sahiby  he  said.  Why,  it's  a  dream  world,  Guy,  a  horrid  Shangri-La.  Mem-sahib!  Don't  they  know?&quot;  Guy  was  unwise  enough  to  say,  &quot;They  don't.  That's  their  charm.&quot;  It  was  unwise  because  he  risked  appear-  ing  unredeemably  old  to  his  bride.  He  wished  again  that  Susan  would  dream  more  and  think  less.  Guy  admired  any-  one's  dream,  whether  it  was  the  private  dream  that  led  to  Monte  Carlo  and  a  yacht  or  the  dream  of  Major  Terry,  who  said  &quot;mem-sahib&quot;  and  inhabited  empires.  But  Susan,  unequipped  for  dreams,  congealed  life  for  Guy  by  see-  ing  things  as  they  were.  Perhaps  she  was  too  soon  out  of  the  schoolroom.  Per-  haps  her  clear  stare  was  not  medieval,  after  all,  but  just  the  righteous,  prying  look  of  the  form  prefect.  He  remem-  bered  how  soon  after  their  wedding  she  had  begun  to  get  the  drift  of  things,  particularly  of  his  financial  affairs.  She  had  pushed  a  straight  lock  away  from  her  face,  kept  her  hand  there,  and  said  maternally,  &quot;Tell  me,  Guy.  Are  you  improvident?&quot;  Now  they  were  here,  down  at  Aunt  Val's,  because  he  was  improvident  and  could  not  have  kept  a  canary  with  style.  They  were  in  trouble  and  had  no  money  for  the  rent  in  [REDACTED]-although  Guy  kept  pretending  it  was  all  frolic  and  spree.  They  were  to  spend  the  autumn  caretaking  for  Aunt  Val  while  she,  be-  wildered,  went  to  stay  with  terrible  cousins  in  [REDACTED].  The  plan  was  Susan's;  for  such  a  baby,  she  had  a  good  head.  It  happened  that  because  of  unfair  com-  petition  from  the  Japanese,  Guy's  firm  had  retrenched,  and  he  was  out  ofa  job.  Now  he  was  waiting.  He  was  wait-  ing  for  a  rearrangement  of  the  planets  concerned  with  his  fate,  for  his  close-  fisted  mother  to  increase  his  allowance,  and  for  better  times.  He  was  also  wait-  ing  fora  letter  about  a  post  with  a  British  firm  in  the  Argentine.  (Oil-  burners-odorless  oil-burners.  Guy  said  it  was  just  up  his  street.  Given  a  chance,  he  would  be  first-rate  at  selling  odorless  oil-burners  in  the  Argentine.)  DECEMBER  3,  19  60  Out  of  habit,  he  presseda  nerve  in  his  left  hip,  whichhad  been  injured  in  an  air  crash  during  the  war.  This  pressure  caused  him  sharp  immediate  pain  but  relieved  a  feeling  of  weight  on  his  left  knee.  It  was  a  trick  he  had  learned.  When  he  stood  up  to  walk,  his  limp  would  be  less  pro-  nounced.  'There  is  thegin,&quot;  Aunt  Val  said  suddenly.  &quot;It  is  of  very  poor  qual-  ity,  and  I  can't  think  how  it  came  into  the  house.  You  will  find  it  under  the  kitchen  stairs.  There  must  be  thirty  bottles  still.&quot;  &quot;Thirty  bottles  of  gin?&quot;  said  Guy.  &quot;Under  the  stairs.  But  of  poor  quality.  I  am  so  sorry.  Every-  thing  I  am  leaving  you  is  poor.&quot;  She  apolo-  gized  for  the  gin,  for  the  smugglers,  even  the  noise  of  the  sea.  The  sea  was  miles  behind  them,  but  the  cliff  was  a  sounding  board.  Often,  she  promised  them,  and  was  sorry  about  it,  they  would  hear  the  beating  of  phantom  waves.  The  smugglers'  passage  was  a  kind  of  game.  Guy  liked  the  sound  of  it.  First  there  were  the  border  police,  and  the  guns,  and  then  the  steep  clandestine  path.  The  path  forked,  Aunt  Val  said.  One  branch  led  the  fugitives  to  safety,  by  way  of  a  burned  olive  grove,  remnant  of  an  old  forest  fire,  and  a  peasant's  house  and  then  her  house.  The  other  branch,  which  seemed  to  be  leading  to  the  warm  lights  ofa  town,  suddenly  narrowed  and  merged  with  the  wall  of  the  cliff.  Often  a  secret  traveller  missed  his  footing  in  the  dark  and  was  found  killed  on  the  rocks,  with  a  sprigof  broom  in  his  hand,  grasped  in  the  fall.  But  Guy  said  it  was  fair  enough;  there  was  the  same  sporting  chance  one  would  allow  an  otter,  a  fox,  or  a  prisoner  of  war.  &quot;Oh,  stop  it,  Aunt  Val,&quot;  said  Susan,  not  quite  daring  to  bully  Guy.  &quot;There  haven't  been  any  real  smugglers  around  here  for  years.  There  isn't  anything  to  smuggle,  except  drugs,  and  that's  done  in  a  big  way  now,  in  planes,  and  boats.  These  smugglers  are  just  wretched  men  " b"from  4974616c79  looking  for  work  in  [REDACTED].  The  Italians  won't  let  them  out  and  the  French  won't  let  them  in,  and  so  they  come  as  they  can.  They  aren't  danger-  ous.  They  are  just-dispossessed.&quot;  She  loved  those  words:  improvident,  dis-  possessed.  Aunt  Val  looked  at  Guy.  &quot;Let  us  not  lose  our  heads  over  these  people,&quot;  her  small,  daft  eyes  implored.  Guy  would  havebacked  her  all  the  way.  Whatever  he  thought  of  Aunt  Val's  luncheon,  or  whatever  her  opinion  of  him  as  a  pro-  vider  for  Susan,  he  and  Aunt  Val  were  the  same  kind.  They  bore  a  dozen  labels  that  said  so.  Silence,  camouflage,  self-  control,  a  cruel  tact-these  were  vir-  tues  they  had  handled  and  that  had  tar-  nished  in  their  hands.  But  Susan  would  not  admit  these  tarnished  objects  as  vir-  tues.  She  confused  her  elders,  set  them  running  in  moral  circles,  like  ants  whose  path  has  been  interfered  with.  They  were  too  taken  aback  ever  to  say  to  her  &quot;How  do  you  know?&quot;  She  denounced  their  judgments  and  prodded  their  fail-  ings.  Alas,  they  did  not  believe  they  had  failed.  &quot;As  for  Major  Terry,&quot;  she  said  suddenly,  as  if  he  were  the  principal  source  of  their  going  mentally  soft  and  astray,  &quot;I  shall  have  nothing  to  do  with  him.  He  can  stare  all  he  likes.  If  that  drooling  boxer  could  talk,  it  would  have  more  sense.&quot;  Aunt  Val  began  to  twitter  about  neighborly  kindliness  and  borrowed  gardening  tools.  Major  Terry  was  kind  about  sharing  his  television.  Guy  merely  said,  &quot;Oh,  I  don't  know,&quot;  preparing  the  defense  of  his  autumn  social  life.  An  in-  vitation  to  the  least  promising  party  would  have  sent  him  whistling  into  a  clean  shirt.  People  liked  him  on  sight,  and  there  were  always  the  drinks.  He  could  have  slipped  easily  into  life  down  here,  or  into  any  other.  He  wondered  if  Susan  knew.  &quot;But  you  must  be  friendly,  Susan,  dear,&quot;  said  Aunt  Val,  clasping  the  macaroni-and-cheese-saved-in  her  arms.  &quot;Everyone  will  love  you.  As  for  Guy,  why,  I  can't  count  the  friends  he  will  make.  Guy  is  so  awfully  nice.&quot;  Susan  was  about  to  explain  that  he  wasn't  so  awfully  nice,  that  she  thought  it  was  just  the  way  he  behaved.  But  she  checked  herself  and  held  still.  Curious,  prodding,  she  was  still  not  sure  just  how  much  grown  people  could  stand  being  hurt.  AJNT  Var  went  to  [REDACTED],  bearing  an  empty  bird  cage  she  had  prom-  ised  the  cousins  years  before,  and  two  of  the  thirty  bottles  of  inferior  gin,  so  as  to  have  refreshment  during  the  voyage.  Guy  and  Susan  were  left  alone.  They  had  not  been  married  long,  and  there  had  been  people  around  them  in  Lon-  don.  They  went  up  and  down  stairs  hand  in  hand,  and  Susan  told  him  a  little  about  her  family-not  too  much.  She  was  not  certain  what  she  ought  to  think.  She  told  him  what  she  suspected  about  life,  and  she  unfolded  her  touch-  ingly  empty  past.  Guy  told  her  about  the  war  and,  one  evening,  about  a  woman  named  Marigold.  He  had  had  a  lot  to  drink,  and  one  topic  led  to  the  next  with  sliding  facility.  Susan  listened  politely.  She  already  knew.  She  had  found  a  letter.  [REDACTED]?  She  system-  atically  went  through  his  pockets.  After  all,  that  was  how  schoolgirls  learned  to  know  each  other  well.  Locked  in  a  bathroom,  she  had  read  the  letter  and  marvelled  at  the  ability  ofa  man  to  lead  two  lives,  or  two  facets  of  the  same  life,  without  going  off  his  head.  She  read  that  Marigold  was  drowning  in  her  marriage  but  that  the  memory  of  Guy  kept  her  afloat.  For  some  reason  that  Susan  did  notunderstand,  Guy  and  Marigold  had  not  married  each  other.  A  landscape  of  middle-aged  resignation  came  into  view.  She  observed  it  with  a  cold  eye.  She  was  not  jealous.  Marigold  was  drowning,  and  Guy  was  hers.   Aunt  Val  sent  instructions  from  [REDACTED],  mostly  of  an  economical,  elec-  tricity-saving  kind;  the  autumn  rain  continued  to  blow  down  from  the  Alps;  and  oneday  they  were  nearlyout  of  funds.  Susan  said,  &quot;Guy,  about  the  let-  ter.  I  mean  the  letter  about  the  job  in  the  Argentine.  You  are  expecting  it,  aren't  you?  It  is  real?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  real  as  real,&quot;  he  said  affection-  ately-or  perhaps  his  tone  was  on  the  fringe  of  affection.  It  was  terrible  for  old  hero  Guy,  so  shady,  slippery,  and  gay-itwas  terrible  having  a  witness.  Luckily,  there  were  the  nights.  At  night  he  could  still  promise  anything  she  wanted  and  make  her  believe  in  the  prospect.  He  could  give  assurance  of  miracles.  He  promised  that  the  next  day  would  be  better;  the  rain  would  stop,  the  letter  would  come.  As  with  most  cheerful  men,  his  weak  point  was  mem-  ory.  He  forgot  at  night  what  the  morn-  ing  had  been.  Mornings,  far  from  be-  ing  better,  as  Guy  had  said  they  would  be,  were  the  low  point  of  their  lives.  Everything  he  touched  was  icy  or  con-  gealed.  The  coffee  grinder  in  his  hands  froze  the  blood.  He  held  his  fingers  over  the  gas  ring  where  he  made  toast.  It  was  hours  before  he  could  bring  himself  to" b"shave,  because  of  the  cold  taps.  Susan  stayed  in  bed  with  her  cooling  hot-water  bottles.  She  could  make  passable  Turk-  ish  delight,  but  that  wasn't  called  for  now.  Aunt  Valhad  left  them  aquantity  of  kumquat  jam,  bottled-or  at  any  rate  labelled-by  herself.  Susan  observed  with  uncritical  interest  that  Guy  was  expert  in  not  pushing  credit  too  far.  Oc-  casionally  he  gave  the  grocer  a  rest  and  they  lived  on  toast  and  the  gin  and  the  kumquat  jam.  He  never  minded.  Susan  had  never  seen  him  cast  down.  Her  father-the  4b656e7961  absconder-became  small  and  dark  beside  this  sunny  hus-  band.  Guy  never  protested  against  in-  justice-that  he  was  forty  andhad  been  thrown  out  of  his  job,  that  he  had  a  bad  leg  from  the  war  and  would  limp  all  his  life.  But  no  one  can  exist  only  as  a  happy  former  hero.  His  real  feelings  were  layers  deep.  Under  his  manner  was  a  pool  of  gall,  unadmitted,  opaque.  Something  had  gone  wrong  for  him  just  after  the  war,  either  in  love,  or  ambi-  tion,  or  the  way  the  worldseemed  when  hegot  up  from  his  bed  and  his  plaster  casts.  Now  he  would  never  say  he  missed  or  wanted  anything.  His  desire  for  Su-  san  was  a  single  exception,  and,  as  there  had  been  no  one  to  forbid  or  advise  her,  she  had  been  easily  won.  He  liked  every  circumstance  as  it  came  along.  If  liking  was  impossible,  then  he  blamed  the  weather-something  beyond  one's  con-  trol.  It  was  all  the  weather  down  here.  Who  would  have  believed  the  South  of  [REDACTED]  could  be  chill  and  wet?  If  the  weather  would  change,  he  and  Susan  might  enjoy  strolling  down  to  theshops;  otherwise,  one  could  make  a  jolly  meal  of  jam  and  toast.  After  a  time,  when  the  nights  and  the  prospects  inevitably  failed,  he  said  that  if  their  beds  were  not  so  damp  and  Susan  not  so  entrenched  in  hot-water  bottles,  love  would  not  be  in  abeyance.  It  had  nothing  to  do  with  Susan  or  him;  it  was  all  in  the  time  of  year.  They  waited  for  the  letter.  Every  night  Susan  heard  the  smugglers  in  the  garden.  She  heard  whispers,  footsteps,  and  forgot  that  they  were  only  the  foot-  steps  of  the  dispossessed.  The  certainty  that  she  was  being  watched  by  strangers  froze  and  held  every  scattered  alarm,  every  inconsequential  fear  that  in  oth-  er  circumstances  would  have  briefly  brushed  by.  She  knew  that  to  Guy  her  fears  were  puzzling  and  rather  dowdy.  They  spoiled  for  him  the  red-and-ochre  cliff  over  which  smugglers  came  and  falcons  flew.  She  was  afraid  of  stran-  gers;  it  was  virginal,  queer.  He  could  not  understand.  To  him,  unknown  peo-  ple  were  ghosts.  He  could  feel  neither  pity  nor  fear  where  they  were  concerned;  they  did  not  expect  it.  Ghosts  have  no  true  feelings;  they  are  mys-  tifying,  unreasonable,  with  no  regard  for  privacy.  The  whispers  in  the  dark,  the  footprints  on  the  wet  drive,  the  odd,  abandoned  clues-one  shoe,  or  a  filthy  coat-were  trappings  of  chaos.  Ghosts  and  confusion.  He  was  for  order,  and  gaiety,  and  for  dealing  with  living  things.  For  Susan's  sake,  he  went  around  the  garden  every  night  with  a  light  in  his  hand.  Often  he  was  bold  and  drunk,  and  if  he  had  come  face  to  face  with  a  man-walked  into  a  man  and  not  a  ghost-he  would  have  clapped  him  on  the  shoulder,  with  the  hearty  air  left  over  from  the  war,  and  given  him  a  cigarette  and  plenty  of  good  advice.  He  shone  his  light  into  the  black  roots  of  wisteria,  frightening  the  rats,  and  on  the  palms.  Sometimes  there  might  have  been  a  blur-a  face-by  the  cypress  windscreen,  but  he  was  so  sure  the  night  contained  no  threat  to  him  that  he  never  called  out,  but  turned  away  and  limped  back  along  the  drive.  Under  the  caked  wet  leaves  at  his  feet  he  could  hear  the  stirrings  of  small  things  keep-  " b"ing  out  of  the  rain-black  beetles,  spi-  ders.  &quot;Lizards,&quot;  craven  Susan  would  have  said,  confusing  them  with  scor-  pions,  probably-something  that  could  kill  with  a  sting.  No  use  telling  her  the  lizards  were  sleeping  through  the  winter  (rather  like  Guy  and  Susan  that  year)  and  that  there  wereno  scor-  pions  in  this  part  of  [REDACTED];  none  to  speak  of.  Susan  cowered  indoors,  dressed  for  charades.  She  dressed  as  though  she  had  simply  forgotten  what  normal  people  put  on  their  backs.  One  night,  after  seven  weeks  of  waiting  forthe  letter-  a  whole  lifetime-Guy  came  into  the  house,  unwinding  his  scarf,  and  called  down  the  dark  hall,  &quot;I've  told  you,  there's  nobody.  Now  be  a  good  girl  and  give  me  some  peace.&quot;  In  the  drawing  room,  lit  likea  pleas-  ure  boat,  Susan  knelt  by  the  fire.  She  gave  him  a  large-pupilled  tipsy  stare.  Out  of  the  fur  fringe  of  an  anorak  hood,  found  in  a  trunk  or  a  cupboard  of  Aunt  Val's,  her  fine,  straight  hair  sprang  as  if  electrified.  She  had  fastened  a  plaid  blanket  around  her  shoulders  with  a  safety  pin  and  a  cameo  brooch,  but  the  brooch  was  open  and  dangling.  She  was  down  on  the  dove-gray  rug  she  had  stained  with  tea  and  burned  with  ciga-  rettes  trying  to  make  toast  on  a  long-  handled,  trembling  fork.  Everything  he  was  capable  offeeling  about  her,  all  the  tenderness  and  the  subdued  exaspera-  tion,  was  called  up  by  the  sight  of  her  now.  She  had  been  an  enchanting  girl,  a  medieval  page.  He  had  snatched  her  straight  out  ofthe  schoolroom-quite  a  feat  for  a  lame  old  boy.  He  had  never  wanted  to  marry  anybody,  but  he  could  not  have  had  her  any  other  way.  Mar-  riage  had  seemed  a  smallthing  then-  a  sand  flea.  But  Marigold  had  been  right;  his  life  was  too  dodgy  for  wives,  and  it  was  better  without  witnesses,  alone.  Still,  they  were  quite  the  picture  of  domestic  heaven,  he  thought  a  moment  later:  Guy  with  his  legs  stretched  to-  ward  the  fire,  a  glass  of  gin  in  one  hand     and  frightened  Susan  at  his  feet.  Being  tall,  his  usual  view  of  people  began  with  thetop  of  the  head.  Susan's  head-the  porcelain  skull,  the  true-silk  hair-had  attracted  him  to  her  in  the  first  place.  He  gently  pushed  her  anorak  hood  away.  His  sentiments  expanded  with  drink.  He  would  have  murmured  some  endearment,  but  she  might  turn  the  clear,  unfocussed  stare  in  his  direction  and  say,  &quot;The  letter,  Guy.  Are  you  really  expecting  it?  Do  you  think  it  will  come?&quot;  Without  looking  up  at  him,  attend-  ing  to  their  toast,  she  said,  &quot;You  know,  Guy,  I  like  being  married  and  all  that,  but  I  think  I  would  rather  go  back  to  [REDACTED],  if  you  don't  mind.  I  like  being  married  and  everything,  but  I  think  I'm  too  young.  I  mean,  I  think  I'd  rather  not  be  married  any  more.&quot;  Often,  alone,  when  Guy  was  asleep  or  looking  at  the  television  over  at  Ma-  jor  Terry's,  she  had  wandered  around  the  roomsand  come  across  hibernat-  ing  geckos-small  house  lizards-their     " b"heartbeats  slowed  until  they  were  just  this  side  of  life,  She  turned  them  over,  ungently,  with  the  cruel  curiosity  ofa  child.  Looking  at  them,  she  would  think,  &quot;Now,  let  me  see,  what  am  I  doing?  I  am  married  to  Guy  Osborne  and  we  are  having  a  honeymoon  in  the  South  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  Cruel,  frightened,  she  looked  up  now  to  see  what  he  would  do.  He  simply  thought  it  was  a  good  thing  that  she  had  decided  to  start  a  row  at  this  moment,  because  hecould  hear  someone  walking  in  the  drive  and  knew  he  would  not  be  able  to  persuade  her  that  it  was  the  sound  of  a  blown  leaf.  It  was  his  habit  to  see  the  best  in  every  circumstance-marriage  being  otherwise  untenable.  He  did  not  take  her  seriously.  Being  in  the  darkened  winter  south  had  led  to  too  much  brooding  and  talk.  Every  tree  and  stone  seemed  to  bewaiting,  like  them,  for  a  minor  change.  But  trees  and  stones  have  this  advantage:  they  do  not  converse.  There  is  talk  and  talk.  Guy  would  have  gone  on  about  the  war,  which  he  had  enjoyed,  but  Susan  had  got  in  first  with  her  family,  and  her  fears,  and  even  Marigold.  Poor  Mari-  gold,  whom  he  had  loved,  now  stuck  like  persistent  bad  luck  to  their  mar-  riage,  their  future,  their  uncertain  life.  &quot;Then,  you  see,  you  could  just  marry  Mari-  gold,  and  I  could  geta  job  in  a  coffee  bar,&quot;  said  Susan,  buttering  toast.  &quot;I  couldn't  and  you  certainly  couldn't,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  couldn't  marry  Marigold,  even  if  I  wanted  to.  Although  the  fact  of  the  matter  is,  I  adored  her.&quot;  You  never  got  over  her,&quot;  Susan  said.  She  had  been  saying  this  all  along.  &quot;In  a  way  not.  You  see,  we  knew  each  oth-  er  awfully  well.&quot;  The  prefect  took  over.  &quot;Then  it  would  have  been  more  honor-  able  not  to  have  mar-  ried  me.  You  needn't  have.  I  wasn't  duced.&quot;  Guy  seemed  to  ac-  cept  this  He  might  have  got  over  Marigold  in  time,  but  never  the  war.  Tonight's  drink-  ing  and  arguing  brought  it  back.  His  closest  friends  had  been  killed,  Se-  but  he  thought  of  them  as  living  and  young.  He  looked,  and  would  al-  ways  look,  as  if  he  were  bringing  in  an  aircraft  with  all  the  essential  parts  shot  away.  His  war  record  was  good  for  jobs,  although  for  one  reason  or  another,  not  Guy's  doing,  they  never  held  up;  and  his  manner  still  brought  down  women:  flower  women  who  sobbed  in  bars,  forgot  their  own  names,  lost  their  purses;  soft  little  women,  appealing  as  tiny  animals,  usually  mar-  ried  to  hopeless  men.  The  beloved  Marigold,  combining  essentials,  was  both  flower  and  mouse.  Guy's  ability  to  recall,  exclusively  limited  to  scenes  of  war,  made  way  for  memories  of  his  love.  In  stormier,  happier  times,  she  edged  from  the  bar  counter  to  the  tele-  phone  and  returned  in  tears:  the  hus-  band,  at  home  and  waiting  for  his  din-  ner,  had  been  cross.  But  Marigold,  frail  thing,  was  not  to  be  shoved.  She  dried  her  tears  and  said  she  would  have  another  drink.  Guy  admired  that.  His  wife  had  nothing  of  that  fierce  mouselike  courage.  She  talked  about  leaving  him,  unsettled  by  gin  probably,  but  wait!  &quot;You  should  go,  actually,&quot;  said  Susan,  now  in  the  ugly  mood  he  thought   of  as  exclusively  possible  with  women.  &quot;It  is  my  aunt's  house.&quot;  She  thought  of  the  letters  Marigold  had  written  to  him  that  she  had  read  in  the  freezing  bath-  room,  perched  uncomfortably  on  the  edge  of  the  tub.  &quot;I  think  you  should  go  within  twenty-four  hours.&quot;  He  paid  no  attention.  She  would  not  have  stayed  alone  a  second,  and  it  would  have  taken  him  twenty-four  days  to  de-  cide  where  to  go.  He  slipped  the  bottle,  the  last  of  their  hostess's  gin,  behind  his  chair.  He  took  a  drink,  shuddering.  &quot;Somebody's  walked  on  my  grave,&quot;  he  said  amiably.  Obviously  he  never  expected  to  have  a  grave,  anywhere.  Susan  seemed  to  him  terribly  comic,  tell-  ing  him  to  clear  out  that  way,  with  the  plaid  blanket  rakishly  tossed  back.  He  could  not  help  giving  her  a  friendly  smile.  The  smile  was  maddening.  He  re-  acted  no  more  than  a  sleeping  lizard  that,  tormented,  could  not  move  an  eye  or  a  frozen  limb.  Unable  to  adjust  his  eyes  to  a  fixed  point,  Guy  placidly  watched  a  transparent  Susan  detach  herself  from  his  wife  and  slip  to  one  side.  Interested,  butnot  alarmed,  his  reflexes  all  one  minute  behind,  he  saw  Susan  and  her  double  smash  a  clock.  They  could  never  re-  place  that  clock.  The  awaited  collapse  came  on.  Susan  sobbed  on  his  lap.  &quot;Poor  little  kitten!&quot;  &quot;You  never  got  over  Marigold.  You  should  never  have  married  me.\xe2\x80\x997  &quot;Oh,  come  on.  You  can  love  different  peo-  ple  different  ways.&quot;  &quot;I  didn't  think  being  married  to  you  would  be  like  this.&quot;  &quot;Neither  did  I,&quot;  said  Guy,  truthfully.  &quot;Don't  cry,  now.  You  get  so  worked  up  at  night.  Ev-  erything  will  be  differ-  ent  in  the  morning.&quot;  But  she  shook  her  head-no.  The  weight  of  their  marriage  shift-  ed;  she  rejected  the  promises  and  remem-  bered  the  claims.  They  were  sliding,  as  a  cou-  ple,  from  being  the  gay  relations  from  [REDACTED],  caretaking  for  a  lark,  to  the  improvident  kin  who  must  be  helped;  they  were  slipping  over  an  invisible  frontier.     " b"On  one  side  were  people  with  funny  little  debts  (as  Guy  pretended  he  and  Susan  were)  and  on  the  other  were  the  people  who  wanted  such  a  lot  but  weren't  able  to  pay  for  any  of  it.  She  said  helplessly,  &quot;It's  just  that  I  think  I'm  too  young.&quot;  'Too  young  to  be  alone  in  [REDACTED],  if  that's  what  you  mean.&quot;  He  remembered  how  she  had  daunt-  ed  her  elders,  how  moral  she  had  been.  Patiently  he  explained  their  present  situation  all  over  again.  He  had  lost  his  job  because  of  competition  from  the  Danes-no,  the  Japanese;  the  Danes  last  time-and  they  had  thought  it  would  be  fun  to  wait  for  better  times  in  the  south.  They  had  given  up  their  flat  in  [REDACTED]-remember?  Susan  remem-  bered.  Of  course  Guy  was  right.  ...  He  was  endlessly  tender  and  kind.  He  must  have  been  like  that  in  the  old  days  when  he  was  prying  Marigold  out  of  bars.  Guy  was  the  one  with  the  grasp  on  fact.  She  decided  to  blame  the  house.  It  was  far  too  big.  One  of  them  was  al-  ways  wondering  what  the  other  one  was  up  to.  If  one  had  nothing  to  do  and  found  the  other  occupied,  the  unoccu-  pied  person  felt  abandoned.  Drawn  to  the  warmth  of  the  single  fire,  they  met  in  the  drawing  room  at  half  past  five.  To  avoid  running  up  areproachable  elec-  trical  bill,  they  kept  all  but  the  drawing  room  dark,  giving  the  rest  of  the  house  over  to  the  wind,  and  the  scratch-  ing  sounds.  The  area  around  the  fire-  place  was  cleared,  the  uncovered  tables  crowded  with  full  ashtrays.  'The  rest  of  the  furniture  was  still  hidden  under  sheets.  On  dim  corner  tables,  jars  of  drooping,  blackish  carnations  were  the  reminders  of  Susan's  early  efforts  to  make  the  room  alive.  &quot;All  the  same,&quot;  she  said,  snivelling,  drying  her  tears  with  the  palms  of  her  hands,  &quot;I  know  you  think  about  Mari-  gold.  Sometimes  I  believe  you  would  murder  me  to  get  rid  of  me,  if  you  dared.&quot;  He  did  not  reply.  He  looked  suddenly  old  and  ill.  It  was  no  good;  nobody  was  planning  to  murder  any-  body.  Guy  had  a  bad  leg  and  hip.  The  cold  was  worse  for  him  than  for  Susan,  although  he  never  mentioned  it.  He  was  waiting  for  news  from  the  world;  for  a  message.  Submerged  in  the  icy  lake  of  his  situation,  he  accepted  this  stunning  shock:  he  was  forty,  he  had  never  been  able  to  earn  a  living,  and  in  a  moment  of  sexual  insanity  he  had  taken  on  a  young,  young  wife.  N  Guy  had  promised  all  along,  the  weather  cleared  in  the  night.  A  mistral  blew  in  from  the  sea,  sending  the  clouds  inland  to  pile  up  against  the  high-  er  Alps.  It  was  dryly  cold.  Susan  stood  out  on  the  terrace  before  the  drawing  room  and  saw  that  torn,  stained  news-  papers  were  flapping  against  the  hedge.  Someone  had  been  through  in  the  night.  The  wind  dragged  at  her  hair.  She  felt  everything  swept  back  and  away;  her  marriage  was  knocked  down  and  the  threadroots  picked  up  by  the  wind.  In  the  drawing  room  was  the  wreckage  of  the  short  quarrel-the  smashed  clock.  Evidently  miracles  occurred.  There  was  a  letter,  and  it  was  not  from  Aunt  Val.  She  watched  Guy's  progress  up  the  drive  from  the  road,  where  he  had  been  waiting  for  the  postman  to  come  by,  as  he  did  every  day.  He  came  up  to  the  terrace  and  stood  with  his  arm  around  Susan.  The  letter  fluttered  against  her  arm.  Susan  would  not  read  it;  she  would  take  his  word.  They  began  walking  up  and  down  the  terrace  arm  in  arm.  The  letter  was  from  Guy's  mother;  she  was  sending  them  money,  and  they  were  to  join  her  forthe  winter  in  Madeira.  His  mother  was  taking  over  from  Susan's  relatives;  an  implicit,  unspoken  volley  was  begin-  ning.  He  told  Susan  that  his  mother  was  mean;  she  had  always  kept  him  on  short  rein,  and  his  father  before  him.  It  was  puzzling,  hearing  him  talk  about  allowances  as  if  he  were  a  little  boy.  For  if  the  house  had  fallen,  or  if  Susan's  hair  had  caught  fire,  he  would  surely  have  known  what  to  do.  It  was  just  this  busi-  ness  of  earning  a  living,  keeping  jobs.  They  talked  about  Madeira,  confusing  it  with  the  future  in  the  Argentine.  Susan  believed.  He  had  said  the  letter  would  come;  it  came.  He  had  said  the  weather  would  change.  She  did  not  know  of  any  more  reliable  prophets,  or  even  if  any  existed.  'They  agreed  that  everything  would  be  different  once  they  had  made  a  move.  They  would  be  careful  about  the  house  they  lived  in--  not  too  large,  not  too  old;  it  made  all  the  difference.  Where  they  were  go-  ing  now,  Guy  was  saying,  there  would  be  no  difficulty  about  the  climate;  they  would  never  have  the  weather  between  them  again.  Guy  had  been  told  it  was  sunny  all  the  year  around.  "