 b"CHILDHOOD  recollected  is  of-  ten  hallucination;  who  is  to  blame?  One  of  my  father's  brothers,  Hans  Thomas,  was  a  bigamist.  He  had  a  wife  and  sons  in  Europe,  and  a  wife  and  a  lit-  tle  girl  in  the  United  [REDACTED].  The  mother  of  the  little  girl  was  a  Catholic  and  would  not  have  married  him  if  she  had  known  he  had  been  married  once  before.  She  was  doubly  injured;  his  divorce  from  the  European  wife,  too  late  to  be  of  any  good  to  anyone,  was  not  recognized  in  [REDACTED],  where  she  made  her  home,  and  in  the  eyes  of  her  church,  she  had  never  been  married  at  all.  My  uncle  was  supremely  careless,  but  heaven  knows  that  he  hadn't  been  brought  up  that  way.  My  grandparents  were  German.  My  grandfather  died  young,  and  the  children  were  brought  up  by  their  mother.  My  uncle  had  been  knocked  about,  physically  and  spiritual-  ly,  as  much  as  any  disciplinarian  could  ask  for.  The  education  of  my  grand-  mother's  five  chfldren  was  based  on  hu-  miliation;  when  they  grew  up,  they  stitched  together  their  torn  personalities  as  best  they  could.  Hans-Thomas  had  spent  whole  days  of  his  childhood  locked  in  a  room,  deprived  of  food  and  light  and  air  and  voices.  Regularly,  his  head  was  shaved.  Since  this  was  not  a  com-  mon  punishment  in  [REDACTED],  it  was  much  remarked,  and  ought  to  have  taught  him  grace  and  obedience  once  and  for  all.  But  he  grew  up  to  be  justas  willful  and  heedless  as  he  had  been  as  a  boy,  hurt  his  wives,  neglected  his  chil-  dren,  and  escaped  to  [REDACTED],  where  he  failed  in  one  thing  after  the  other.  His  mother  sent  him  money  until  she  died.   I  met  Hans-Thomas  once,  in  our  house  in  [REDACTED].  He  gave  me  two  556e6974656420537461746573n  five-dollar  bills,  which  seemed  to  me  more  valuable  than  Ca-  nadian  money-not  that  I  had  been  giv-  en  ten  dollars  to  spend  before.  Lest  the  money  go  to  my  head,  my  mother  made  me  buy  presents  for  Germaine,  the  half-  witted  bonne  d'enfants,  and  for  her  sis-  ters  and  brothers  and  cousins.  I  had  never  been  told  about  my  uncle's  scan-  dal,  or  why  he  lived  in  [REDACTED].  I  had  never  been  told  that  the  [REDACTED]  cousin  existed;  but  I  knew.  I  knew  about  it,  although  no  one  had  told  me  a  thing.  Perhaps  that  intuitive  knowledge,  the  piecing  together  of  facts  overheard,  overcharges  the  mind.  In  any  case,  the  prelude  to  the  hallucination  is  this:  Sim-  ple  Germaine  takes  me  by  train  to  my  grandmother's  house,  in  northern  Ver-  mont,  for  the  Christmas  holidays.  The  towns,  the  snow,  the  shabby  farms  are  all  familiar;  we  cross  the  border,  where  there  is  a  different  way  of  speaking,  dif-  ferent  money,  a  different  flag.  We  have  made  this  trip  a  dozen  times.  Christmas  is  a  special  season  for  us.  My  parents  are  atheists.  My  grand-  mother  is  a  European  of  hertime  and  her  class-Socialist,  bluestocking,  ag-  nostic,  and  a  snob.  Like  my  parents,  she  objects  to  Christmas,  but  on  different  grounds.  My  parents  complain  about  the  sentimentality,  and  the  commercializa-  tion  of  a  myth.  My  grandmother  pa-  tiently  explains  her  aversion  to  the  pagan  tree,  and  why  she  will  not  have  one  in  her  house.  We  seem  to  me  entirely  apart.  In  my  Catholic  pessionnat  in  [REDACTED],  where  I  am  a  day  student,  in-  structed  by  my  family  to  learn  French  and  keep  out  of  the  chapel,  Christmas  is  marked  by  four  weeks  of  fever.  On  the  last  day,  I  receive  a  present-a  pen-  wiper-from  a  skimpy  tree.  There  is  a  creche;  Bethlehem  seems  to  be  a  town  in  [REDACTED].  The  Holy  Family  and  the  attending  animals,  angels,  and  kings  are  knee-deep  in  cotton  snow.  In  my  class-  room,  the  blackboard  is  decorated  by  the  most  artistic  of  the  nuns.  We  watch  her  drawing  with  colored  chalk:  green  holly,  red  berries,  angels  with  yellow  hair.  This  blackboard,  no  longer  avail-  able  for  sums,  holds  all  the  excitement  of  a  pagan  season  my  parents  despise.  We  do,  however,  exchange  presents.  I  am  bearing  gifts  to  Grandmother-  three  drawings  on  parchment,  and  a  heavy  book.  We  arrive  at  Grandmoth-  er's  without  adventure.  And  here  the  hallucination  begins.  Her  name  is  Rose.  She  is  about  thir-  teen,  with  long  hair  that  lies  in  ribbons  on  a  velvet  coat.  The  coat  has  braid  trimming  and  gilt  buttons.  She  wears     " b"a  fur  beret.  She  car-  ries  a  muff.  Her  fur-  and-velvet  overshoes  are  in  the  hall  closet,  where  my  navy  reefer  has  been  hung.  The  overshoes  are  the  first  excitement;  who  is  here?  My  cousinsare  boys.  No  girl  comes  to  Grandmother's  but  me.  Now  someone  has  come-Rose.  I  wear  aFerris  waist,  two  pairs  of  bloomers  because  of  the  cold,  a  middy  blouse  with  a  whistle  on  a  cord,  ablue  skirt,  white  stockings,  black  patent-  leather  shoes.  I  have  left  my  coat  and  my  gloves  in  the  hall,  but  kept  my  hat:  H.M.S.  Halifax.  From  either  side  of  the  hat  sprout  braids  and  powder-blue  grosgrain  bows.  I  am  much  younger  than  Rose,  and  considera-  bly  smaller.  She  bends  down  to  me;  she  smells  of  cold  and  of  snow.  The  room  is  oddly  dark.  She  cries,  &quot;Oh,  this  is  Irmgard.  Oh,  isn't  she  cute!&quot;  I  wait  for  Grand-  mother  to  gather  her  thunderbolts,  balance  them,  and  let  fly.  I  might  conceivably  be  allowed  to  swear,  but  I  would  be  banished  from  human  society  if  I  said  &quot;cute.&quot;  &quot;Cute&quot;  is  an  abomination,  like  Wagner,  ca-  naries,  the  radio,  motorcycles,  small  dogs,  chintz.  There  are  no  thunder-  bolts.  My  grandmother-our  grand-  mother-smiles  at  Rose  out  of  her  cold  hazel  eyes.  She  smirks  at  her,  doting.  Rose  responds  with  a  positive  simper.  They  would  eat  each  other,  like  spun  sugar,  if  they  could.  Obviously,  Germaine  and  I  have  come  too  early.  We  havebroken  into  their  tea.  I  know  of  only  one  cake  at  Grandmother's-a  lemon-scented  yel-  low  loaf  my  mother  derisively  calls  &quot;Lutheran  folly.&quot;  But  Rose  has  a  lay-  er  cake  decorated  with  cherries.  She  has  large,  thick  cookies,  saucer-sized,  iced  with  pink  and  white,  sprinkled  with  colored  sugar.  She  has  ginger  biscuits,  crescents,  stars,  delicately  iced.  She  has  snowmen  with  cherry  noses  and  currant  eyes.  They  disappear,  wrapped  in  spangled  paper,  into  Rose's  muff.  In  the  dark,  warm,  scented  parlor,  Germaine  winds  the  gramophone,  and  we  hear  bells  from  a  foreign  cathedral  and  shrill  little  voices  crying  &quot;Sisser  die  Glocken  nie  klingen.  .  ..&quot;  Doors  fly  open:  Rose  has  a  tree.  Beyond  the  doors  is  a  sweet-smelling  pagan  cave;  the  sitting  room  is  a  blaze  ofcandles,  stars,  moons,  planets;  a  tree.  Rose  sits  on  Grandmother's  lap;  Grandmother  smooths  her  hair.  Rose  is  crying.  Then,  laden  with  presents,  weeping,  Rose  de-  parts.  It  has  the  true  quality  of  a  hallucina-  tion,  because  I  take  no  part.  I  can  see  them,  but  they  cannot  see  me.  And  then  (this  is  the  very  thing  my  grand-  mother  had  taught  us-her  own  chil-  dren,  then  me-to  suspect  and  scorn  )  singing  infants,  little  biscuits,  shed  tears,  slops.  For  she  worked  on  my  educa-  tion-hard;  not  as  she  had  with  her  own  children,  for  she  knew  it  had  failed,  but  with  endless  instructions,  and  kneadings  and  pummellings  ofthe  mind.  Her  [REDACTED]  was  hard  and  thin,  shadeless  and  plain,  thin  and  cold:  a  landscape  illuminated  with  a  cold  lemon  sun,  without  warmth  or  irregular  clouds.  She  read  to  me  in  German.  I  was  expected  to  understand.  I  was  ex-  pected  to  sit  and  listen  and  form  my  understanding  of  people  and  the  way  they  behaved,  and  my  style,  and  my  thoughts,  on  the  thingsshe  read.  But  there  was  a  heavy  brown  veil  between  us-the  German  tongue.  I  knew  two  words  for  everything,  one  in  English  and  one  in  French.  I  could  not  admit  three.  My  grandmother  read;  I  sat  on     " b"a  chair,  so  high  and  deep  that  my  legs  stuck  out  before  me  and  went  to  sleep.  She  read  and  read,  and  one  day  the  veil  melted.  I  hegan  to  see  a  woman  in  long  skirts  walking  to  and  fro,  talk-  ing,  explaining.  Suddenly  she  stops  and  throws  a  glance  into  a  mirror.  She  peeps  intoa  mirror,  and  what  she  sees--  her  own  face-will  always  be  as  im-  portant  to  her  as  anything  she  has  to  say.  I  knew  instantly  what  grown  women  were  like  and  how  I  would  be  one  day.  Voild  les  grandes.  The  veil  must  have  reappeared;  I  remember  nothing  else.  Now,  was  this  grandmother  mine,  or  Rose's?  Was  her  [REDACTED]  the  dark  spruce-scented  cave,  of  which  I  was  given  a  glimpse,  or  the  shadeless  land-  scape,  the  clear  lemon  sun?  Did  Rose  carry  hers  all  her  life  as  I  did  mine-  hers  mournful,  mine  sad;  hers  tearful,  mine  grim;  hers  rich,  mine  thin?  But  here  is  the  problem,  and  why  it  can  never  be  answered:  I  never  saw  Rose  at  all.  But  if  I  never  saw  Rose,  then  everything  fades  with  her:  the  tree,  the  bells,  the  dark  parlor,  the  candles,  the  hanging  suns.  HE  next  day,  the  sitting  room  doors  were  closed,  the  rooms  had  been  aired.  My  present-a  book,  of  course-was  by  my  plate  at  breakfast.  My  grandmother  and  I  exchanged  a  diffident  kiss.  I  saw  that  she  had  writ-  ten  on  the  flyleaf  &quot;fiir  Irmgard.&quot;  On  the  journey  home,  Germaine  and  I  do  not  discuss  Rose.  I  suspect  Ger-  maine  of  being  an  accomplice.  wound  the  gramophone.  But  I  tell  my  parents:  I  say  that  we  saw  Rose,  that  there  were  biscuits,  and  a  tree.  &quot;Oh,  she  wouldn't.&quot;  But  they  exchange  a  look,  which  I  catch.  They  say  I  am  making  it  up.  &quot;We  shall  ask  Grandmother,&quot;  they  warn.  Instinct  now  says  that  Grandmother  is  old  and  tired,  and  will  lie.  She  has  failed,  and  will  now  say  anything  for  the  sake  of  peace  and  to  bind  the  family  to  her.  They  turn  to  Germaine.  &quot;W  hat  was  she  like,  Germaine?  What  was  she  wearing?&quot;  Germaine  racks  her  brain,  which  means  she  is  set  down  in  an  unknown  country  and  stumbles  over  tree  roots  and  rocks.  &quot;She  had  on  a  navy-blue  coat,  a  sailor  hat,  a  sailor  blouse,  a  .  ..&quot;  But  no!  Z  am  the  one  with  the  middy,  the  whistle,  the  stockings,  the  H.M.S.  Halifax  hat.  I  see  that  they  know  per-  fectly  well  Rose  exists  and  are  curious;  they  would  love  to  know  more.  They  would  love  to  know  how  she  looked and  how  she  was  dressed,  but  they  no  more  believe  in  my  velvet  coat  and  fur  beret  than  in  Germaine's  navy-blue  reef-  er  and  sailor  hat.  My  mother  is  excited.  She  lights  a  cigarette,  puts  it  out,  lights  another.  She  admires  her  brother-in-  law  for  having  &quot;brought  it  off.&quot;  He  brought  it  off-kept  out  of  prison,  where  he  belongs,  and  there  he  is,  in  [REDACTED],  in  the  sun.  Her  brother-in-law's  wicked-  ness,  his  escape,  excites  something  ruth,  less  in  her  own  nature.  He  is  in  [REDACTED];  she  is  in  [REDACTED],  which  she  hates.  My  mother  would  like  to  hear  about  Rose.  Rose's  circumstances  are  more  inter-  esting  than  mine.  Her  legitimacy  is  in  doubt,  she  is  a  Catholic,  her  father  has  &quot;brought  it  off&quot;  and  lives  in  a  warm  climate.  My  circumstances  are  boring.  My  mother  knows  all  about  my  clothes.  I  wake,  I  dress,  I  am  taken  to  school  by  Germaine,  I  play  with  dolls.  They  would  have  preferred  a  boy.  Well,  it  is  too  late  now.  I  am  here.  They  should  have  thought  of  it  sooner.  'They  should  have  stopped  bickering  for  a  moment  and  come  to  some  decision.  Now  I  am  here,  and  they  are  here,  and  we  shall  just  have  to  put  up  with  one  another.  Rose  needn't  put  up  with  anyone;  her  father  is  in  [REDACTED],  shedding  five-dol-  lar  bills  like  leaves.  Since  Rose  is  favored  from  the  start,  why  is  she  given  things  I  am  told  are  abomination?  It  is  for  Rose  that  little  boys  sing  in  [REDACTED];  it  is  for  Rose  that  Grandmother's  sitting  room  is  a  dark,  enchanted  cave.  And  so  the  questions  begin  again.  Did  it  amuse  our  grand-  mother  to  giveus  different  glimpses  of  her  world?  Mine  was  surely  the  noblest  and  best;  but  was  there  a  coarse,  senti-  mental,  Lumpendeutsch  part  of  her  nature  reserved  for  Rose?  Did  she  see  her  often?  Did  she  like  her  best?  There  is  the  core  of  the  whole  busi-  ness;  and  even  now  the  child's  puppy  ego  wakes  and  shows  its  teeth:  prefer  me,  if  you  don't  mind.  Catching  Germaine  off  guard,  I  ask  cunningly,  &quot;Rose  est  jolie?&quot;  &quot;Joke!&quot;  cries  Germaine.  &quot;She  has  pretty  hair,  but  an  ugly  face.  She  smiles  like  a  monkey.&quot;  She  smiles  like  a  monkey.  We  did  see  her,  then.  At  any  rate,  we  saw  some-  one.  UT  let  us  begin  with  common  sense.  The  scene,  as  I  saw  it,  was  im-  possible.  My  grandmother  would  not     " b"have  had  that  tree  and  those  candles.  As  for  the  record  of  &quot;Sisser  die  Glocken,&quot;'  sung  by  mosquito  voices,  why,  she  could  never  have  heard  it  for  oneminute  without  intense  intellectual  suffering.  As  though  an  eraser  were  coming  down  on  the  decorated  black-  board,  the  memory  must  be  rubbed  out,  or  life,  and  the  possibilities  of  behavior,  like  my  grandmother's  heart,  will  split  in  two.  The  holly,  the  berries,  the  an-  gels,  the  candles,  the  snow,  white,  red,  green  blur  together  and  dissolve  in  an  odor  of  dust  and  slate.  Rose,  reduced,  is  a  plain  girl  with  a  monkey's  smile.  The  eraser  crosses  her  face.  Rose  is  not  my  cousin.I  never  saw  her.  She  had  no  legal  reason  to  exist.  Chalk  and  dust  hang  suspended  in  the  air;  the  air  clears,  and  we  are  in  a  world  of  black  and  white  again,  black  and  white  of  nuns'  habits,  of  leafless  trees  and  snow,  of  white  chalk  on  the  practical  board.  Germaine  says  she  saw  someone;  she  remembers  it  well.  But  Germainewas  simple-minded,  and  notorious  for  making  legends  last. "