At the  beach,  it  was  raining  almost  A  noiselessly,  withgray  lumps  of  wetness  hanging  over  the  sand  dunes  and  the  houses  behind  them.  In  the  living  room  of  the  1928-ish  gabled,  clapboard  year-round  house  at  the  beach  front,  a  small  fire  in  the  brick  fire-  place  gave  out  no  heat  and  slowly  died  as  father  and  child  sat  on  the  sofa  to-  gether  in  disharmony.  Andy,  at  five,  could  be  troublesome  if  he  wanted  to,  and,  sitting-or,  rather,  spread  out  in  dissatisfaction-on  Mike's  lap,  he  want-  ed  to.  Mike  had  some  difficulty  holding  the  book  in  his  hand  as  the  boy,  whin-  ing,  squirmed.  A  neighbor's  child,  also  five,  stood  in  front  of  them,  his  buck-  toothed  face  three  inches  from  Mike's,  noticing  everything.  &quot;'The  name  of  this  book  is  'One  Fish,  Two  Fish,  Red  Fish,  Blue  Fish,  &quot;  Mike  said.  Hugging  the  boy  on  his  lap  with  his  elbows,  pointing  over  him  with  his  chin,  in  encouragement,  to  the  ap-  propriately  colored  words  on  the  title  page,  he  said,  &quot;Now  you  read  it,  Andy.&quot;  Before  Andy  could  open  his  mouth,  the  buck-toothed  wonder  from  the  house  across  the  street  put  in  breathless-  ly,  &quot;One  fish  two  fish  red  fish  blue  fish  I  know  the  one  fish  book  I  learned  it  all  Dr.  Melvin.  I  learned  the  whole  book  I  know  it.&quot;  &quot;Very  good,  Guy,&quot;  Mike  said  evenly,  surprised  at  the  power  of  the  sud-  den  rage  within  himself  at  this  interference.  Guy's  legs  gradually  slid  away  from  each  other  in  a  split.  His  sun-bleached  yellow  mop  of  hair  was  uncut  and  uncombed.  He  was  wearing  light-blue  cotton  shorts  with  an  elas-  tic  top,  and  they  were  sev-  eral  sizes  too  large  for  him.  The  Indian  on  horseback  embossed  at  the  hemline  came  below  the  little  boy's  kneecap.  The  shorts  were  all  he  was  wearing  against  the  cold,  damp  autumn  day.  He  smelled  of  sea  salt  and  ice  cream.  &quot;Come  on,  fella,&quot;  Mike  said  to  Andy,  edging  back  on  the  sofa,  away  from  the  blunt,  untroubled  stare  of  the  visitor.  &quot;Don't  you  want  to  read  the  fish  book?&quot;  Mike  felt  the  sullenness  in  the  child  on  his  lap,  felt  it  matching  his  own.  He  ca&quot;  «  1&amp;3“,  -  had  was  pinned  down  in  the  house  on  this  rain-soaked  day  while  Joy  marched  off  to  the  city  to  see  the  damn  psycho-  analyst.  There  would  be  no  relief  for  hours.  She  wouldn't  get  back  until  after  six.  From  the  psychoanalyst,  she  was  going  shopping  for  new  clothes,  she  had  announced.  What  on  earth  was  there  about  psychoanalysis  that  sent  wives  steaming  away  straight  from  the  couch  into  Bergdorf  Goodman?  Little  directives  on  how  to  buy  clothes,  no  doubt,  as  well  as  on  how  to  eat,  how  to  talk,  how  to  think,  how  to  be  popular,  how  to  make  love.  The  latest  directive  was  that  Mike  should  spend  at  least  one  afternoon  a  week  in  the  house  tak-  ing  care  of  Andy.  So,  to  please  Joy's  psychoanalyst,  he  had  been  forced  to  readjust  his  office  hours  and  reschedule  visits  to  patients  in  and  out  ofthe  hos-  pital  who  had  serious  physical  illnesses  that  were  a  damn  sight  more  important  thananything  that  was  the  matter  with  Joy.  And  for  what?  Joy  was  becoming  impossible.  She  kept  throwing  meaning-  less,  pseudo-psychiatric  jargon  around  and  didn't  have  the  faintest  understand-  ing  of  what  it  meant.  Everything  she  didn't  like  at  the  moment  or  couldn't  comprehend,  about  Mike  or  anybody  ,  wgn  ..,  &quot;Don't  you  just  love  20,  else,  was  labelled  &quot;not  normal.&quot;  And,  by  some  coincidence,  Andy  now  spent  over  half  his  life  whining  about  every-  thing,  normal  and  not  normal.  &quot;Guy,  don't  you  want  to  sit  down?&quot;  Mike  asked,  trying  to  disguise  his  im-  patience.  &quot;Uh-uh.&quot;  Guy  moved  in  half  an  inch  closer.  In  the  kitchen,  which  was  next  to  the  living  room,  the  washer-dryer,  set  going  by  Joy  beforeshe  took  off,  shift-  ed  gears  loudly;  the  clanking  wheeze  became  a  nerve-racking  buzz  as  the  machine  got  ready  to  toss  the  clothes  around  inside.  There  was  an  equally  violent  commotion  on  Mike's  lap.  Andy  had  pulled  off  his  white  sandals  and  white  socks,  and  was  simultaneously  struggling  to  rip  off  his  white  I  shirt  and  kicking  at  Guy.  Mike  stopped  him,  replaced  white  socks  and  white  sandals,  and  held  down  the  T  shirt.  &quot;Come  on,  now,  fella,  you'll  catch  cold,&quot;  he  said,  aware  of  the  ingratiating,  placating,  babying  tone  in  his  voice.  Andy  started  to  kick  and  cry  again.  &quot;He's  upset  Dr.  Melvin  because  he  pushed  over  the  monkey-sticks  bridge  you  built  before  and  now  he's  sorry  he  did  it,&quot;  Guy  volunteered.  Before  the  reading  session,  Mike  had     the  smell  of  fresh-baked  bread?&quot;  48  &quot;When  Pve  made  you  a  living  legend,  Pll  let  you  know!&quot;  spent  a  half  hour  building  Andy  and  Guy  a  four-level  bridge  with  sharply  pointed  plastic  sticks-an  unworthy  sub-  stitute  for  the  Erector  set  that  was  the  delight  of  his  own  boyhood.  The  mo-  ment  it  was  completed,  Andy  had  struck  it  down.  He  had  been  crying  and  whin-  ing  since.  The  afternoon  had  got  off  to  a  beaut  of  a  start.  &quot;He  won't  catch  cold,  Dr.  Melvin,&quot;  Guy  said.  &quot;Look  at  me  I  never  wear  shoes  unless  we  go  to  [REDACTED].  We  may  go  to  [REDACTED]  tomorrow  and  then  I'll  wear  shoes.&quot;  &quot;Life  is  simple  for  some  people,&quot;  Mike  said,  secure  in  the  knowledge  that  only  a  couple  of  five-year-olds  heard  him.  &quot;Feel  me  I'm  hot,&quot;  said  Guy,  eagerly  taking  Mike's  free  fist  and  kneading  it.  Sure  enough,  the  visitor's  little  brown  hand  pulsed  with  fire  and  energy.  Mike  became  aware  of  the  cool  clamminess  of  his  own  hand.  Andy  dove  off  his  lap  and  made  for  the  telephone,  near  the  steep,  zigzag,  linoleum-covered  stairway  leading  to  the  bedrooms  upstairs.  He  picked  up  the  receiver,  dialled  a  few  digits,  and  said  into  the  telephone,  &quot;'Tell  her  to  call  me  up  right  away  because  I  have  to  do  something.  I  don't  know  what  I  have  to  do  but  I  have  to  do  it.&quot;  He  hung  up     and,  apparently  feeling  better,  returned  to  his  father's  lap.  In  passing  Guy,  he  stepped  craftily  on  Guy's  foot.  &quot;Ow!&quot;  said  Guy.  &quot;Now  you  read,  [REDACTED];  Mike  said,  snubbing  the  guest's  protest.  &quot;I  hate  this  book,&quot;  Andy  said.  &quot;One  fish,  two  fish-&quot;  Mike  began.  &quot;Stupid  fish,  foo-foo  fish,&quot;  Andy  said.  He  looked  up  in  pleased  amazement  as  Guy  echoed  shrilly,  &quot;Foo-foo  fish!&quot;  Guy  then  lay  belly  down  on  the  floor,  in  a  breast-stroke  position.  &quot;Foo-foo  fish!&quot;  he  shrieked.  Andy  slid  down  to  the  floor  and  imitated  him.  In  the  back-  ground,  the  duomatic  washing  machine  whistled  three  times  and  moved  ahead  into  dry  cycle  or  delayed  bleach  or  some  goddam  fool  thing.  &quot;Blinkyfish!  Stinkyfish!  Stunky-  fish!&quot;  Guy  yelled,  leaping  up.  He  head-  ed  for  the  stairway.  Andy  followed  him.  From  upstairs,  the  pounding  of  five-year-old  feet  thudded  at  Mike's  temples,  and  his  head  began  to  ache.  Then  the  herd  crashed  down  the  linoleum-covered  stairs  and  returned,  screaming,  to  the  living  room. 