 b" PAIN  is  expected  and  awaited  by   the  Spanish  people.  When  it  ar-  rives,  there  is  no  horrified  aston-  ishment  but  a  grave  greeting  to  an  old  friend  and  neighbor,  a  frequent  and  familiar  visitor,  never  far  away.  A  ma-  jor  visitation,  an  honorable  one  that  merits  formality,  seems  almost  to  be  welcomed.  Here  is  an  opportunity  to  prove  one's  manhood,  one's  Aispenis-  mo-to  represent  for  awhile  the  Span-  ish  and  the  human  race,  to  redeem  them  a  little,  Great  banners  of  words  unfurl  above  the  heroic  sufferer-caballerosided  (no-  bleness),  Aidalguia  (manliness),  pun-  donor  (point  of  honor),  nobleza  (nobility  ).  And  there  are  tough,  down-  to-earth  words  for  minor  cavaliers-  machote  (virile),  fuerte  (strong),  acojonado  (male  courage).  'The  Span-  iards  bring  three  ancestral  attributes  to  bear  on  the  occasion  of  agony:  the  Roman  concept  of  honor,  the  Gothic  sense  of  tragedy,  and  the  Moors'grim  passive  obedience  to  the  will  of  Allah.  As  I  lay  there  in  537061696e  with  a  broken  leg,  such  thoughts  swam  into  focus.  There  is,  of  course,  another  side  to  it.  Let  pain  sneak  upon  a  Spaniard  in  some  petty  and  unworthy  form-a  toothache,  a  boil,  or  some  other  pest  at  a  sub-  heroic  level-and  let  wife  or  mother  or  only  intimate  friends  be  present;  the  con-  quistador  collapses,  groan-  ing  theatrically  and  dashing  manly  tears  from  his  an-  guished  eyes.  Thus,  my  friend  Jos\xc3\xa9  Romero,  of  Jerez,  who  leads  horses  into  the  bull  ring  on  Sundays,  held  public  court,  chuckling  and  smoking  in  a  hospital  bed,  with  a  seven-inch  horn  wound  in  his  thigh.  But  the  same  man,  when  he  skinned  a  knuckle  at  his  weekday  work  of  bricklay-  ing,  turned  green  in  the  face  and  reeled  off  to  the  nearest  clinic.  A  broken  leg  is  a  borderline  situation.  If,  however,  itis  broken  very  publicly,  in  dramatic  circumstances,  then  there  is  no  doubt-it  qualifies  for  theheroic  treatment.  The  classical  canons  of  As-  parismo  demand  a  major  act.  I  am  English,  but  I  had  lived  in  Gibraltar  long  enough  to  know  this  when,  last  Whitsun,  I  suffered,  at  the  great  Ro-  meria  del  Rocio,  what  I  have  since  learned  is  a  third-degree  Pott's  fracture.  And,  acting  correctly,  I  became  a  minor  hero  in  the  wilderness  of  the  Guadal-  quivir  River,  in  southern  537061696e,  and  all  along  the  white  highway  to  distant  Gibraltar.  HE  Romeria  is  an  annual  con-  course  of  the  simple  and  the  sophis-  ticated  at  the  miraculous  shrine  of  El  Rocio,  in  the  heart  of  the  vast  marshes  at  the  mouth  of  the  Guadalquivir.  The  shrine  is  fifteen  miles  of  dirt  road  from  the  nearest  town,  Almonte,  and  about  sixty  miles  from  Seville.  To  this  remote  place  the  Queen  of  the  Marshlands,  Our  Lady  of  the  Dew,  calls  out  the  simple,  merry  folkof  Seville,  Triana,  Huelva,  Cadiz,  Jerez,  and  a  hundred  Andalusian  villages  at  Whitsun  every  year.  'They  come  to  pay  homage  and  to  pray  to  an  image  of  the  Virgin,  enshrined  where  she  appeared,  they  say,  in  the  estuarine  marshlands  of  the  River  Guadalquivir.  And  they  come  for  ancient  custom's  sake,  and  for  fun  as  well.  My  party  often,  in  three  carloads,  included  my  wife  and-thank  God-  the  colonial  surgeon  of  Gibraltar.  There  was  only  one  other  foreign  group  there.  This  festival  comes  too  early  in  the  year  to  draw  the  tourist  trade,  and  the  place  is  almost  inaccessible  by  car.  The  Spaniards  present-  some  thousands-were  most-  ly  gypsies  and  true  believ-  ers  in  music  and  miracles.  We  foreigners  were,  I  fear,  mere  saunterers  in  the  old-  est  sense-seekers  after  sante  terra,  and  idle  rascals,  too.  At  El  Rocio,  the  Satur-  day  before  Whitsunday  is  called  the  Day  of  the  Arrival.  Throughout  the  day,  from  all  points  of  the  compass,  long  cavalcades  of  covered  wagons  come  in,  drawn  by  w  decorated  bulls  and  stuffed  with  gaudy  flamenco  girls.  Some  of  them  have  been  on  the  road  for  four  days.  Bulls  and  girls  alike  are  white  with  dust  as  they  file  past  the  shrine  and  bow-bulls  and  all-to  the  gilded  image  of  Our  Lady  of  Rocio.  That  night  is  for  saturnalia.  There  is  free  wine  for  all,  wild  music,  frenzies  of  handclapping  and  castanets,  and  the  strange,  haunting  one-man  band  of  drum  and  fife.  Throat-searing  cante  hondo  wails  from  every  bivouace.  Sunday-after  a  cold  dawn  hour  spent  on  a  camp  bed  set  up  under  the  eucalyptus  trees-is  the  day  when  the   " b"Virgin  is  visited  and  venerated,  and  petitioned  by  the  sick  and  lame.  Sun-  day  night  is  a  repetition  of  Saturday  night,  but  with  added  fervor.  Monday  is  the  time  of  sad  farewell,  when  the  Virgin  is  left  in  her  lovely  marshes  for  _|  another  year.  So  they  tell  me,  at  any  rate;  I  was  not  at  El  Rocio  on  Monday.  N  Sunday  morning,  all  desiccated  with  excess  sherry,  and  chilled  stiff  by  the  marsh  winds  and  the  dew,  my  party  came  to  life  slowly  on  coffee  laced  with  amis.  An  hour  later,  bolder,  we  fried  something  and  ate  it.  More  coffee,  more  amis,  and  then-recovered  and  eager-to  the  festival.  They  were  at  it  again-or  still-at  nine  o'clock  that  morning,  dancing  the  sevillanas  and  fandanguillos,  beating  up  the  yellow  dust  and  sweeping  it  out  of  the  air  with  their  skirts.  These  round  dances  make  fine  photography,  and  the  best  way  to  catch  the  pattern  is  from  above.  I  climbed  onto  the  low  roof  ofa  caseta,  a  flimsy  structure  put  up  to  pro-  vide  shelter  at  night  in  case  of  rain,  and  trained  my  camera  on  the  scene  below  me.  But  that  roof  was  a  gimerack  affair  of  half-baked  tiles;  it  began  to  crackle  under  my  feet.  To  avoid  (of  all  things)  damaging  it,  I  jumped  down.  I  jumped  down  some  six  feet,  and  hit  the  hard  ground  with  a  jar  that  astounded  me.  I  have  jumped  withimpunity  from  far  greater  heights  onto  the  soft  turf  of  England,  but  I  shall  never  try  it  again.  &quot;When  is  he  going  to  hit  the  ground?&quot;  we  ask  of  someone  perpetually  elated,  elevated.  It  is  a  strong  metaphor.  So  i  was  for  me.  My  landfall  was  total;  phys-  ically  and  spiritually  the  flight  was  over,  and  middle  age  began  at  that  moment.  I  sat  stunned  on  the  ground  while  a  crowd  gathered  around  me,  and  the  colonial  surgeon  came  over  and,  after  a  quick  examination,  said,  &quot;Lie  down.  You  have  broken  your  right  leg.&quot;  An  occasion  like  this  has  its  compen-  sations.  'There  comes  upon  the  victim  a  sudden  magnificent  sense  of  irresponsi-  bility  and  release  from  care.  Someone  else  can  plot  and  plan  henceforth-look  after  the  money,  chart  the  route,  talk  the  Spanish,  pilot  the  car.  He  is  free  to  resign  and  retreat.  In  a  third-degree  Pott'sfracture,  there  are  two  breaks-one  in  the  fibula,  and  one  involving  the  ankle  joint.  The  surgeon  set  the  bones-both  of  them-  then  and  there,  and  all  I  felt  was  a  slight  foreign  fiddling.  Then  he  went  to  look  for  splints.  I  lay  and  looked  up  at  aring  of  ex-  cited  and  amused  young  faces,  Spanish  faces,  fringing  my  personal  patch  of  sky. " b"They  had  come,  fascinated  by  disaster,  as  birds  flock  uselessly  round  a  wounded  comrade.  They  laughed-not  callously  but  in  unease  and  embarrassment.  They  |__  joked  about  the  old  roof,  the  jump,  |_  '*  my  optimism,  my  odd  clothes  and  at-  titude.  Girls  giggled  down  at  me,  were  |_  pushed  toward  me,  jumped  over  me  |-  trailing  their  spotted  skirts.  Little  chil-  dren  peered  wide-eyed  through  the  WW  {}{ence  of  legs.  I  suppose  I  fainted.  I  became  aware  |}  of  my  face  being  slapped  hard  but  pain-  lessly;  I  held  it  up  for  further  slapping.  A  man  knelt  and  spoke  to  me  vocif-  erously,  but  I  could  find  no  words  to  answer  him,  There  was  a  lot  of  fast  \xc2\xbb  discussion  above  me,  and  then,  sudden-  ly,  I  was  swept  up  shoulder-high,  and  poised  horizontal,  like  a  coffin,  closer  to  the  open  sky.  Thus  do  they  leave  the  ring,  I  thought,  all  the  wounded  toreros.  (&quot;Keephim  flat,  keep  him  straight,  so  that  his  broken  ribs  may  not  pierce  his  lungs.&quot;  Every  hooligan  inthis  country  has  a  morbid  knowledge  of  anatomy.  &quot;Above  all,  since  it  may  be  the  femoral  artery,  take  him  out  fast!&quot;)  I  was  sail-  ing  through  and  over  the  crowds,  feet  first.  Behind  me-but  what  did  I  care?  -I  could  hear  the  doctor  shouting  to  them  to  stop.  The  broken  foot  jiggled  at  every  step,  he  told  me  later,  and  looked  as  though  only  skin  and  sock  held  it  to  the  leg.  But  the  stretcher  party  was  committed  now  to  the  exhilaration  of  action,  and  paid  no  heed  to  the  doctor's  orders.  'They  knew  their  duty  and  their  goal.  Laughing  and  cheering,  trailing  crowds  behind  them,  they  ran  me  into  the  first-aid  post  and  placed  me  gently  in  an  armchair.  There,  after  more  face-slapping  and  rough  encouragement,  I  focussed  slow-  ly  on  a  ring  of  dark  faces.  In  the  middle  of  it,  his  hands  cradling  my  foot,  and  a  defensive  look  on  his  face,  stood  the  doc-  tor.  I  was  set  again  and  splinted,  and  then  there  was  a  long  wait  while  one  of  the  men  in  our  party  cleared  the  back  of  his  station  wagon  to  improvise  an  am-  bulance.  I  remember  that  wait  as  a  happy  in-  terlude.  It  seemed  long  enough  to  dispel  the  last  remnants  of  strangeness  that  set  me  apart  from  the  Spanish  people.  I  had  lived  among  them  for  six  years,  but  al-  ways  as  a  stranger,  as  a  man  with  ad-  vantages.  Now,  at  last,  I  was  brought  by  mishap  to  their  basic  human  level;  I  was  at  their  mercy.  &quot;Don't  worry,&quot;  they  told  me.  &quot;Down  with  depression  !&quot;  They  were  in  holiday  mood,  and  the  little  drama  of  the  injured  Englishman  was  crowning  their  occasion.  Every " b" word  I  uttered  was  received  uproarious-  ly.  I  knew  three  Spanish  proverbs  about  worry,  one  of  them  very  bawdy.  All  three  were  enormously  successful.  I  was  privileged  to  say  anything  in  front  of  anyone.  &quot;Wear  this  holy  medal,&quot;  a  girl  said,  &quot;and  your  bones  will  mend  soon.&quot;  She  invested  me  with  a  big  gilt  medallion  on  a  green  cord.  &quot;&quot;Who  is  this  on  the  medal?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Our  Lady  of  the  Dew,  man!&quot;  they  shouted.  &quot;You're  in  good  hands!  Last  year,  an  ox  wagon  tumbled  right  over,  here  in  this  very  place,  and  it  was  full  of  kids.  Not  a  scratch  on  one  of  them!  Miraculous!&quot;  &quot;What  about  [REDACTED];  I  pointed  at  my  foot.  &quot;I  got  a  scratch,  all  right!&quot;  They  hooted  with  laughter  and  ruf-  fied  my  hair.  &quot;You  jumped,  man!  You  threw  yourself  off  a  roof!  Do  you  ex-  pect  the  Virgin  to  run  about  after  every  fool  in  the  fair?&quot;  I  could  see  some  sense  in  that.  There  must  never  be  a  glut  of  miracles.  They  must  be  strictly  rationed,  for  a  common-  place  miracle  is  a  contradiction  in  terms.  I  said  that  I  was  glad  the  children  had  been  looked  after  instead  of  me,  and  the  Spanish  cheered  this  sentiment  and  asked  the  doctor  if  I  might  have  a  drink.  The  doctor  thought  it  might  be  a  good  idea.  What  was  it  tobe,  they  asked,  thrusting  out  their  wineskins.  Vino?  &quot;Vino,  no!&quot;  I  told  them.  &quot;It  breeds  mosquitoes  and  frogs  and  alligators.&quot;  Let  it  bea  palomita,  a  baby  dove,  in-  nocently  so  called,  which  is  dry  anis  with  water,  looks  like  skimmed  milk,  and  kicks  like  a  brave  bull.  They  cheered  the  choice,  and  poured  me  a  stiff  one,  white  as  chalk.  As  I  drank  this,  the  doctor  told  me  that  I  had  six  bad  hours  ahead.  The  sta-  tion  wagon,  its  owner  at  the  wheel  and  my  wife  beside  him  as  nurse-attendant,  would  have  to  travel  one  hundred  and  fifty  miles  of  dubious  roads-from  this  wilderness,  by  way  of  Seville,  Jerez,  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  Maria,  and  Algeciras,  to  Gibraltar,  with  its  operating  theatre.  For  even  the  most  devoted  of  Hispano-  philes  do  not  extend  their  warmth  to  Spanish  surgery.  He  was  sorry  that  he  had  no  analgesics  with  him  except  a  small  supply  of  codeine  he  had  brought  along  for  hangovers.  The  first-aid  post  could  raise  nothing  stronger  than  as-  pirin;  537061696e  is  a  pauper  in  drugs.  It  was  then  that  I  thought  of  Nelson's  Navy  and  the  surgery  performed  under  alcohol.  I  would  apply  bibiotherapy-if  that  is  the  word.  Here  in  my  hand  was  an  anesthetic  stronger  than  any  Navy  rum;  " b'one  could  even  play  on  the  name  anis.  Anis  (pastis  in  [REDACTED],  Pernod  in  [REDACTED]  are  its  kindred)  is  pure  grape  al-  cohol  united  with  its  ancient  spouse  aniseed.  In  537061696e,  it  has  great  traditions  and  is  still  regarded  as  something  ofa  lifesaver.  The  laboring  people  take  a  tot  of  it  at  dawn  each  day,  muttering  traditionally,  apologetically,  as  they  do  so,  &quot;Para  matar  los  gusanillos&quot;  (&quot;To  kill  the  worms&quot;  ).  What  worms?  Fig-  urative  rather  than  physical,  I  feel  sure-hunger,  weariness,  frustration,  and  pain  itself.  The  magic  liquid  comes  in  litre  bottles  tasselled  with  the  national  colors  and  brand-named  after  those  classic  conquerors  of  human  weakness  the  matadors  of  the  Golden  Age.  The  strongest  and  the  best  anis-it  is  judged  by  its  whitening  effect  on  water-is  called  Machaquito.  With  a  litre  of  Machaquito,  a  flask  of  water,  a  holy  medal,  and  a  rattling  box  of  quarter-grain  codeine,  I  set  off,  bumping  and  bouncing  down  the  forest  road,  withan  escort  of  outriders,  and  a  horde  of  footmen  straggling  behind.  And  the  last  I  heard  of  the  Romeria  del  Rocio  were  the  &quot;Viva!&quot;s  and  the  good  wishes  for  recovery  and  the  invita-  tions  to  come  back,  dancing,  in  the  years  ahead.  HE  long  journey  is  blurred  and  foreshortened.  There  was  singing  all  the  way,  I  remember,  and  merri-  ment  at  every  stopping  place,  when  the  windows  of  my  ambulance  were  filled  with  curious  faces.  &quot;What  have  you  got?&quot;  &quot;A  broken  leg.&quot;  &quot;May  God  save  you!&quot;  &quot;He  has  done  so  already.&quot;  &quot;Where  did  you  get  it?&quot;  &quot;At  the  Romeria  del  Rocio.&quot;  &quot;Fighting?&quot;  &quot;No,  man!  Dancing.&quot;  &quot;May  it  alleviate  now!&quot;  &quot;Thank  you,  man.&quot;  At  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  Maria,  we  drew  such  a  crowd  that  the  traffic  policeman  left  his  unnecessary  post  to  give  us  un-  needed  protection.  Here  they  pushed  the ' b"children  to  the  forefront  to  see  the  mer-  ry  wounded  Englishman  and  learn  from  him  the  ancient  formula  of  be-  havior  under  pain.  By  this  stage  of  the  journey,  the  Englishman  was  merry  in-  deed,  waving  his  bottle  and  singing  the  praises  of  the  brave  bullfighter  Macha-  quito.  &quot;But  Belmonte  has  a  hundred  and  twenty  scars  on  his  body,&quot;  a  boy  said.  &quot;Pedresito  was  carried  twice  round  the  ring  at  Seville  with  a  bull's  horn  through  the  roof  of  his  mouth!&quot;  said  another.  A  little  girl  piped  up,  &quot;There's  a  man  in  our  patio  who  had  his  legs  ground  off  in  a  mill!&quot;  &quot;And  how  are  they  all,  these  peo-  ple?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;All  well  and  happy,&quot;  the  children  said.  &quot;Thanks  be  to  God!&quot;  The  girl  lifted  her  brother  up  to  see  me.  He  thrust  his  tiny  brown  arm  through  the  window  and  held  it  before  my  face.  Just  below  the  elbow,  a  grave  gray  chameleon  grinned  at  me  and  rolled  its  independent  eyes.  &quot;For  you,  sir!  Take  it!  Take  it!&quot;  The  chameleon,  like  the  legendary  fireproof  salamander,  is  a  stoic  symbol  in  537061696e.  I  put  my  arm  next  to  the  child's,  and  the  chameleon  strode  slowly  down  the  child's  arm  and  onto  mine.  &quot;He  walks  through  the  fire,&quot;  the  little  boy  said  solemnly.  &quot;He  walks  through  the  fire,  and  he  lives  on  air.&quot;"