 b"WHEN  I  first  matriculated  at  \xe2\x80\x98JRI  [REDACTED]  University  as  a  graduate  research  student,  some  five  and  a  half  years  ago,  I  knew  exactly  what  I  intended  to  study.  I  intended  to  study  the  later  novels  of  Henry  James  there  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  wrote  them.  By  a  profound  analysis  of  his  style,  I  was  going  to  settle  once  and  for  all,  I  hoped,  the  long-argued  question  of  whether  James  in  his  last  years  was  an  old  master  or  an  old  im-  pOStor.  In  this  ambitious  plan  I  was  not  alone.  At  a  conservative  estimate,  at  least  two  hundred  other  young  Ameri-  cans,  not  to  mention  several  English-  men  and  a  stray  European  or  so,  were  at  that  moment  also  taking  notes  on  &quot;The  Ambassadors&quot;  and  &quot;The  Golden  Bowl,&quot;  and  planning  their  doctoral  dis-  sertations  on  the  later  works  of  James.  The  number  has  since  increased.  A  friend  of  mine  who  sits  on  the  De-  gree  Committee  of  the  Faculty  of  English  at  [REDACTED]  told  me  recently  that  in  my  time,  out  of  all  the  prospec-  tive  research  students  in  literature,  only  one  in  twenty  wanted  to  do  his  thesis  on  Henry  James.  Now,  he  says,  it's  about  one  in  six,  including  prac-  tically  a/l  of  the  Americans  who  apply.  To  borrow  (a  scholar's  privilege)  the  phrase  of  Stephen  Potter,  James  is  very  likely  the  most  O.K.  author  of  the  twentieth  cen-  tury.  It's  a  kind  of  distinction  to  have  studied  him  even  if  you  didn't  learn  anything.  Five  years  ago,  of  course,  I  had  no  idea  that  the  competition  for  James  was  so  severe.  I  was  simply  another  full-  grown  but  innocent  American-intox-  icated  with  literature,  proud  that  my  country  had  produced  a  novelist  as  com-  plex  and  subtle  and  widely  admired  in  Europe  as  Henry  James,  and  eager  to  associate  myself  with  this  towering  fig-  ure  on  any  terms.  It  was  only  gradually,  during  my  first  few  months  at  Cam-  bridge,  that  I  discovered  howmany  as-  sociates  James  already  had.  There  was  F.  O.  Matthiessen,  who  had  taken  the  later  novels  (my  novels)  and  written  a  definitive  book  on  them  called  &quot;Henry  James:  The  Major  Phase.&quot;  There  was  young  Michael  Swan,  right  there  in  [REDACTED],  who  had  made  his  attachment  to  James  before  he  was  twenty-five.  (I  was  already  twenty-  five.)  There  was  Leon  Edel,  the  bril-  liant  professor  at  New  York  University,     who  knew  all  about  James's  life-far  more  than  James  seems  to  have  been  aware  of  himself-and  who  had  writ-  ten  or  edited  five  books  on  the  great  man  and  his  work.  (I  had  written  one  slim  &quot;appreciation.&quot;  )  There  was  F.  W.  Dupee,  who  knew  all  about  James's  life,  too,  and  who  had  written  or  edited  three  books.  There  was  Simon  Nowell-  Smith,  of  [REDACTED],  who  had  written  prefaces,  and  whose  specialty  was  col-  lecting  literary  anecdotes  about  James.  There  was  Gerard  Hopkins,  nephew  of  the  poet,  and  master  analyst  of  James's  style.  And  these  were  only  the  great  ones.  In  a  card  file  I  still  own,  I've  got  listed  eighty-two  learned  articles,  by  eighty-two  Ph.D.s,  on  the  subject  of  James's  later  novels  alone,  and  my  list  is  far  from  complete.  I  was  horribly  discouraged  as  I  slowly  became  aware  of  allthis.  The  further  I  got  into  James,  the  less  I  could  find  that  there  was  left  to  write.  My  super-  visor  wasn't  much  help,  either,  &quot;Come  see  me  when  you've  finished  your  first  chapter,&quot;  he  told  me  at  our  first  in-  terview.  &quot;I  can't  do  anything  for  you  until  then.  James  is  not,  I  rejoice  to  say,  one  of  my  specialties.&quot;  See-  ing  my  depressed  face,  he  added,  more  kindly,  &quot;Even  if  he  were,  I  couldn't  possibly  find  you  a  topic.  Not  inthis  era  of  mass  scholarship.  Finding  some  new  trifle  to  write  about  is  two-thirds  of  your  job  as  are-  search  student.&quot;  And  he  gave  me  a  glass  of  sherry.  GOUI1)  many  people  were  giving  me  glasses  of  sherry  that  term,  which  is  one  of  thepleasures  of  being  in  statu  pupillart  at  [REDACTED].  The  senior  tutor  of  my  college  did  even  better.  He  invited  me  to  his  house  for  midday  dinner  one  Sunday  in  Decem-  ber,  just  after  Michaelmas  Term  ended.  Naturally,  we  had  a  glass  of  sherry  be-  fore  sitting  down.  &quot;Well,  Perrin,&quot;  he  said,  handing  me  my  sherry,  &quot;how  are  you  getting  on?  Work  going  all  right?&quot;  &quot;Actually,  not  quite  so  well  as  I  could  wish,  [REDACTED];  I  answered  bravely,  mean-  ing  that  it  was  not  going  at  all,  and  flat-  tering  myself  that  in  this  restrained  phrase  I  was  catching  the  authentic  English  note.  &quot;I  think  someone  told  me  you're  doing  a  dissertation  on  Henry  James?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  The  senior  tutor  lit  his  pipe,  using  " b" a  match  the  size  of  a  small  chair  leg.  &quot;I  used  to  know  James  when  I  was  a  boy,&quot;  he  said,  in  a  tone  that  was  either  really  offhanded  or  an  excellent  simu-  lacrum  of  offhandedness.  Not  being  able  to  decide  which,  I  played  my  an-  swer  safe.  &quot;Golly,  sir,  I  envy  you,&quot;  I,  as  Henry  Jameswould  have  put  it,  humorously  wailed.  The  senior  tutor  looked  pleased.  &quot;'Yes,  he  was  a  great  friend  of  an  aunt  of  mine  in  [REDACTED].  Sometimes,  when  I  stayed  with  her  during  school  holidays,  he'd  be  there,  too.  I  remember  once,  when  I  was  about  fifteen,  having  to  walk  with  him  down  to  the  post  office.  He  talked  the  whole  way,  and  I  didn't  understand  a  word  he  said.  Funny  fel-  low,&quot;  &quot;But  a  brilliant  novelist,  sir.&quot;  \xc2\xab&quot;That's  a  portrait  of  my  aunt,&quot;  the  senior  tutor  went  on,  nodding  at  a  paint-  ing  over  the  fireplace.  &quot;She  was  very  good  to  me  when  I  was  a  boy.&quot;  I  think  I  would  have  recognized  the  painting  as  a  Sargent  even  if  its  sub-  ject's  nephew  hadn't  promptly  volun-  teered  the  information.  I  looked  with  considerable  interest  at  the  little  gray  woman  whom  Sargent  had  painted.  But  I  couldn't  help  thinking  that  we  were  getting  pretty  remote  from  revelations  about  Henry  James.  The  senior  tutor  was  watching  my  reactions  in  a  penetrating,  head-bent  way  he  had,  and  now  he  proceeded.  &quot;You  know,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;my  aunt  lived  to  be  almost  eighty,  and  when  she  died,  I  was  her  sole  heir.&quot;  I  didn't  see  myself  saying  &quot;Con-  gratulations,  [REDACTED];  so  I  said  nothing.  He  lit  his  pipe  with  another  enormous  match,  and  continued,  &quot;I  went  through  her  papers  after  she  died,  in  1937,  and  among  the  rest  I  found  a  bundle  of  let-  ters  from  Henry  James.  She  was  a  great  saver.&quot;  &quot;My  God,  sir,  how  wonderful!  What  did  you  do  with  them?&quot;  I  almost  shouted.  The  senior  tutor  puffed  away.  &quot;Why,  nothing  in  particular.  My  wife  and  I  read  a  few  of  the  letters  at  the  time,  but  they  appeared  to  be  purely  domestic  in  their  scope,  and  then  the  war  came  along  and  we  rather  forgot  about  them.  But  your  coming  to  lunch  somehow  put  my  wife  in  mind  of  them,  and  this  morning  she  went  up  to  the  boxroom  and  found  them.  There  seem  to  be  more  than  I  had  remembered.&quot;  He  picked  up  a  shoe  box  from  a  win-  dow  seat,  where  I  hadn't  even  noticed  it,  and  handed  it  to  me.  &quot;Glance  at  them,  if  you  like,&quot;  he  said,  and  strolled" b"off to  give  his  wife  a  hand  with  dinner.  I  stood  goggling  after  him  for  a  min-  ute.  Then,  with  an  almost  sacramental  gesture,  I  opened  the  shoe  box,  which  was  heavy,  and  looked  inside.  It  was  stuffed  neatly  but  tightly  with  sub-  stantial-looking  letters  tied  in  packets  of  about  ten.  One  of  these  I  tugged  out  and  untied.  I  took  the  top  letter  out  of  its  envelope  and  gently  unfolded  it.  It  was  dated,  in  a  hand  that  I  had  seen  often  enough  in  facsimile,  &quot;Lamb  House,  Rye,  Jan.  12th,  1912.&quot;  I  started  reading.  Drar  Faxny  [it  began]:  I  take  the  Sunday  p.m.  train  up...  and  am  due  at  Victoria  at  6:55.  I  shall  want  above  all  after  my  grimmish  Joannine  fortnight,  im-  mediate  Conversation.  and  should  I  find  you-the  purest  font  of  it  in  all  the  great  town-were  I  to  come  to  you  that  very  same  Sunday  evening,  the  14th?  If  not,  we  will  cast  about-but  I  shall  be  so  fresh  at  that  first  ecstatic  hour.  In  this,  I  recognized  the  authentic  note  of  the  Henry  James  who  once  went  out  to  dinner  a  hundred  and  seven  times  during  a  single  winter.  Even  if  I  hadn't,  the  letter  was  signed,  &quot;Ever  your  old  H.  J.&quot;  People  always  seem  to  describe  their  mental  states  in  terms  of  physical  reac-  tions-sinking  feelings  in  their  stom-  achs,  tensings  of  their  spines,  tinglings  in  their  scalps.  My  reaction  to  this,  one  of  the  two  or  three  profoundly  ecstatic  experiences  of  my  life,  was  anear-cessa-  tion  of  physical  activity.  I  could  hardly  taste  my  food  when  we  sat  down  to  din-  ner,  and  would  much  have  preferred  not  to  eat  it.  I  will  swear  that  my  eyes  took  in  less  light  and  my  ears  less  sound  than  normal.  The  senior  tutor  seemed  to  be  talking  at  me  from  some  consid-  erable  distance.  But  I  listened  intently.  &quot;Well,  Perrin,&quot;  he  asked  when  he  had  finished  carving,  &quot;do  you  think  these  letters  would  really  have  any  in-  terest?  My  wife  feels  they  do,  but  on  the  whole  I  incline  to  disagree  with  her.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,  [REDACTED];  I  said,  hoping  I  wasn't  shouting.  &quot;Those  letters  have  a  great  deal  of  interest.  I  think  they're  clearly  publishable,  and  I  suspectthey're  also  salable.  Henry  James  is  an  awfully  im-  portant  author.&quot;  The  senior  tutor  looked  dubious,  &quot;I  don't  believe  I'd  care  to  sell  them,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Nor  do  I  quite  see  why  anyone  would  want  to  publish  them.  After  all,  who  on  earth  would  read  that  sort  of  thing?&quot;  So  I  told  him  about  a  little  book  PZ  read,  called  &quot;Three  Letters  from  Hen-  ry  James  to  Joseph  Conrad,&quot;  published  in  [REDACTED]  in  1926.  Lest  he  object  that  his  aunt  wasn't  Joseph  Conrad,  I  hur- " b"ried  on  to  tell  him  about  &quot;Letters  of  Henry  James  to  Walter  Berry,&quot;  pub-  lished  by  Caresse  Crosby  at  the  Black  Sun  Press,  in  [REDACTED],  in  1928.  I  men-  tioned  &quot;Henry  James:  Letters  to  A.  C.  Benson  and  Auguste  Monod,&quot;  brought  out  in  [REDACTED]  by  Elkin  Mathews,  and  in  New  York  by  Scribner,  in  1930.  I  artfully  referred  to  a  magazine  article  I'd  read  just  a  couple  of  weeks  before,  called  &quot;An  Unpublished  Letter  of  Henry  James.&quot;  (It  was  a  letter  to  an  actress  named  Marion  Terry,  and  not  at  all  epochal.)  If  it  had  been  inexist-  ence  at  the  time,  I  would  have  cited,  item  by  item,  Leon  Edel's  definitive  list  of  a  hundred  and  seventy-two  books,  pamphlets,  and  magazine  articles  that  print  one  or  more  previously  unknown  James  letters  and  that  derive  some  or  all  of  their  raisond'\xc3\xa9tre  from  that  fact  &quot;This  is  all  very  interesting,&quot;  the  senior  tutor  said  when  I  finally  ran  out  of  breath.  &quot;Incredible,  to  be  quite  hon-  est.  But  I  shall  think  most  seriously  about  what  you  have  told  me.&quot;  &quot;Would  you  be  willing  to  let  me  read  the  letters  meanwhile?&quot;  I  asked,  as  casually  asI  could  manage.  &quot;W  hat-  ever  happens  to  them,  they  ought  to  be  sorted  and  catalogued,  and  I  would  count  it  an  honor  to  do  so.&quot;  &quot;Mm-hm,  I  see  no  harm  in  that.&quot;  &quot;In  fact,  we  were  hoping  you'd  want  0,&quot;  his  wife  added,  speaking  for  prac-  tically  the  first  time.  &quot;I  think  my  hus-  band's  aunt  was  a  more  distinguished  woman  than  he  seems  to  realize,  and  these  letters  may  well  have  some  his-  torical  interest.&quot;  She  smiled  at  me  in  a  friendly  way.  &quot;You  must  let  me  give  you  tea  when  you  come  over  to  work  on  them.&quot;  I  took  off  in  wild  academic  glee,  full  of  [REDACTED]  sprouts  and  custard  tart  though  I  was.  I  could  already  see  the  little  book  or,  at  any  rate,  the  very  long  article  that  would  result  from  my  edit-  |-  ing  of  the  letters,  and  my  consequent  assured  place  in  the  Jamesian  bibli-  ography.  With  enough  footnotes,  the  letters  might  make  do  as  my  actual  dissertation  as  well.  And  phrases  like  &quot;grimmish  Joannine  fortnight&quot;  just  nat-  urally  engender  footnotese-good  solid  ones  that  do  not  stop  with  identifying  Joanne  and  dating  the  fortnight  but  that  go  on  to  explain,  with  some  bits  of  what  we  academics  call  facetice,  what  was  so  grim  about  it  and  her.  There  would  be  pages  and  pages  of  such  footnotes.  I  could  see  them  all.  Leaving  out  the  unfortunate  Joanne,  I'd  already  found  in  the  few  letters  I'd  had  time  to  look  through(1)  a  ribald  remark  about  a  woman,  apparently  of  " b"social  prominence,  named  Ottoline,  (2)  a  mild  dig  at  Hugh  Walpole,  (3)  two  references  to  a  mysterious  Con-  stance  F.,  alias  &quot;our  Gorgeous  and  Glorious  one,&quot;  and  (4)  a  dog  known  as  &quot;the  awful  Albino  monster.&quot;  I  could  have  written  a  footnote  about  Air:  then  and  there,  asI  walked  back  to  college.  It  is,  indeed,  this  kind  of  elaborate  documentation  that  we  scholars  love  most.  The  typical  Ph.D.  candidate  doesn't  have  daydreams  of  working  out  a  neocritical  theory  that  will  account  forthe  sexual  element  in  John  Donne's  shorter  lyrics  (hardly  a  scholarly  thing  to  work  out,  at  best);  he  dreams  of  dis-  covering  Chaucer's  will  in  some  old  records  office,  and  publishing  it,  or  of  stumbling  on  an  unedited  manuscript  of  Marlowe's  in  a  castle  loft,  and  editing  it.  Such  activity  is  certain  to  produce  not  only  a  book  but  a  book  that  will  be  talked  about  and  reviewed  and  even  read,  a  book  that  will  require  a  long,  delicious  preface  by  the  scholar  himself.  Scholarship-at  least,  literary  scholarship-is  essentially  parasitic,  and  suitable  hosts  have  been  in  short  supply  for  a  long  time.  HE  next  day,  humming  like  an  A\xc3\xa9des  mosquito,  I  set  joyously  to  work,  counting  the  letters  and  arrang-  ing  them  chronologically.  It  was  ex-  citing  work.  I  made  an  important  dis-  covery  almost  at  once.  My  senior  tutor's  aunt,  I  found,  had  kept  the  letters  in  their  original  envelopes,  of  which  there  were  some  ninety,  bearing  postmarks  },  from1906  up  to  within  a  couple  of  months  of  James's  death,  in  1916.  This  fact  had,  naturally  enough,  led  the  senior  tutor  and  his  wife  to  suppose  that  there  were  also  about  ninety  let-  ters.  But  I  soon  discovered  that,  begin-  ning  around  1910,  his  aunt  had  taken  to  stuffing  several  letters  in  one  enve-  lope,  and  there  were  actually  a  total  of  a  hundred  and  thirty-four  holograph  letters.  I  could,  at  that  point,  have  safe-  ly  vanished  with  forty-four  of  them  (worth,  apart  from  their  literary  value,  between  ten  and  twenty-five  dollars  apiece  on  the  open  market),  and  I  even  thought  about  doing  so;  but  of  course  I  hoped,  in  due  time,  to  be  allowed  to  depart  with  the  whole  collection,  and  so  put  the  idea  by  as  unworthy.  Instead,  I  worked  happily  away  on  the  catalogue,  finding  ever  more  refer-  ences  to  Constance  F.,  the  Gorgeous  and  Glorious  one,  and  I  continued,  on  the  occasional  days  when  my  senior  tutor  came  home  for  tea,  to  impress  on  him  the  urgency  of  getting  the  letters  in-  to  print.  Once,  I  remember,  when  I  " b"was  suggesting  that  publication  would  be  only  fair  to  his  aunt,  he  ducked  his  head  in  annoyance.  &quot;They  are,  after  all,  private  letters,  Perrin,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  not  surethat  I  am  not  betraying  my  aunt's  trust  in  even  letting  you  [;  read  them.  Significant  or  not,  they  per-  haps  ought  to  be  burned.&quot;  I  said  no  }:  more  about  what  his  aunt  would  have  wished.  A  couple  of  days  later,  however,  I  managed  to  get  hold  of  my  supervisor,  |  out  of  term  though  it  was,  and  even  ||  though  I  still  hadno  first  chapter  of  a  thesis  to  show  him.  Up  until  then,  I  had  confided  in  no  one  about  the  let-  ters,  fearing  that  news  of  them  would  bring  swarms  of  hungry  scholars  roar-  ing  up  from  [REDACTED]  and  Oxford  to  snatch  them  from  me.  But  to  my  super-  visorI  told  the  full  story,  which  he  followed  with  open,  almost  drooling  mouth,  and  then  I  asked  him  how  I  should  proceed.  &quot;I  know  your  senior  tutor  only  in  the  most  casual  way,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;But  I  do  know  that  he's  a  scholar  of  the  old  school.  I  shouldn't  push  him;,  if  I  were  you.  In  the  first  place,  it's  hard  for  him  to  believe  that  anything  so  recent  real-  ly  matters.  If  the  letters  were  from  Herodotus,  or  even  Milton,  he  could  see  their  importance  at  once.  But  a  mere  novelist  who  flourished  during  his  own  lifetime-that's  another  matter.  Sec-  ondly,  Perrin,  if  he  should  become  con-  vinced  of  their  interest,  there's  no  real  reason  why  he  should  give  them  to  you.  He  might  well  decide  to  edit  them  him-  self.  Or  he  might  prefer  to  turn  them  over  to  someone  who  has,  shall  we  say,  a  somewhat  more  durable  connection  with  the  University.&quot;  &quot;In  other  words,  there's  no  hope  for  me  at  [REDACTED];  I  blurted,  sinking  at  once  into  despair.  It  crossed  my  mind  that  I  had  picked  a  poor  confidant.  An  active  supervisor  in  his  forties  can  always  make  James  one  of  his  specialties.  &quot;Of  course  there's  hope  for  you,&quot;  the  supervisor  said  reassuringly.  &quot;I  sim-  ply  mean  that  you  must  give  the  man  time  to  digest  the  idea  that  there  is  another  Henry  James  besides  the  stam-  mering  old  bore  he  remembers.  We  digest  slowly  in  [REDACTED].  I  think  he  may  very  well  give  them  to  you  in  the  end.&quot;  He  smiled.  &quot;After  all,  they've  been  waiting  for  you  twenty  years,  just  like  Sleeping  Beauty.  Have  a  glass  of  sherry.&quot;  Chastened,  a  little  suspicious  but  still  hopeful,  I  went  back  to  my  cataloguing,  which  I  finished  a  few  days  before  Christmas.  The  day  after  it  was  done,  I  had  a  conference  with  the  senior  tutor" b"in  his  office  at  college.  As  a  thank-you  present  for  all  the  tea,  I  took  him  a  copy  of  Elizabeth  Robins'  &quot;Theatre  and  Friendship,&quot;  a  plump  volume  subtitled  &quot;Some  Henry  James  Letters.&quot;  He  barely  glanced  at  it,  thus  wasting  my  ingenuity  in  getting  hold  of  the  second,  or  Popular,  edition.  &quot;Perrin,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I've  discussed  the  problem  of  these  wretched  letters  with  one  or  two  Fellows  of  the  college.  They  feel,  as  I  do,  that  it  would  be  rash  to  proceed  without  further  information.  One  of  them  has  agreed  to  make  in-  quiries  for  me  in  [REDACTED].  Perhaps  you  had  better  come  see  me  again  about  the  middle  of  next  term.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  [REDACTED];  I  said.  UNABLE  to  contemplate  the  idea  of  two  months'  steady  waiting,  I  left  [REDACTED]  the  same  week,  bound  for  the  Continent,  and  eventually  wound  up  spending  a  grimmish,  soli-  tary  fortnight  in  Marseille.  My  dreams  were  troubled  with  visions  of  footnotes,  all  by  me,  and  book  reviews,  all  favor-  able.  It  was  no  better  when  I  came  back  to  [REDACTED],  at  the  beginning  of  Lent  Term.  By  day,  I  forced  myself  to  sit  in  the  English  Faculty  Library  taking  notes  on  scholarly  works  about  James,  and  at  night  I  continued  to  dream.  When  I  had  taken  notes  on  about  forty  books  and  something  over  three  hun-  dred  learned  articles,  I  presented  my-  self  in  the  senior  tutor's  office  again,  a  trifle  haggard,  and  twisting  a  hypotheti-  cal  cap  in  my  hands.  He  stood  up  as  I  came  in,  which  was  a  bad  sign.  He  always  did  that  when  he  wanted  you  to  leave  quickly.  &quot;Per-  rin,  I'm  sorry  about  this,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Those  letters  turn  out  to  be  of  some  considerable  interest.  I  can  still  hardly  credit  the  report.  IfI  do  anything  with  them-and  I  have  not  yet  made  up  my  mind-I'm  afraid  I  shall  have  to  call  on  someone  with  greater  experience  than  your  own.  But  my  wife  agrees  with  me  that  you  must  feel  freeto  quote  them  in  your  dissertation.  There  would  even  be  no  objection  to  your  quoting  an  en-  tire  letter.  I'm  sorry  we  can't  do  any  better  than  that.&quot;  I  had  learned  long  ago  that  the  senior  tutor  was  not  a  man  with  whom  you  plead,  and  I  didn't  try  pleading  now.  I  went  back  to  my  rooms  and  gave  my-  self  four  glasses  of  sherry  (all  I  had),  and  felt  sad  and  rather  noble  about  the  forty-four  letters  I'd  refrained  from  taking.  What  the  senior  tutor  really  meant,  I  decided,  was  that  he  didn't  care  to  give  these  English  letters  to  a     " b" brash  visiting  American  who  would  bear  them  off  in  triumph  to  New  York  and  probably  wind  up  presenting  them  to  Columbia.  And  I  didn't  really  blame  him.  The  situation  was  itself  so  James-  ian-all  he  really  needed  was  a  home-  ly  niece  whom  I  should  have  had  to  marry  in  order  to  gain  possession-that  I  couldn't  but  understand.  I  wondered  sadly  if  my  supervisor  would  get  them  in  the  end  (and  if  he  would  have  the  nerve  to  tell  me),  or  whether  it  would  be  the  man  in  [REDACTED].  T  the  end  of  the  Easter  Term,  it  was  myself  I  bore  off  to  New  York,  grant  run  out  and  dissertation  not  even  begun.  Two  years  passed  before  I  finally  found  a  little  morsel  of  James  not  yet  so  chewed  over  by  learned  teeth  that  I  couldn't  gnaw  one  more  sliver  of  scholarship  out.  I  thought  about  the  senior  tutor's  aunt's  letters  only  on  rare  occasions,  when  I  wanted  to  feel  sad  and  noble.  Then,  a  couple  of  years  ago,  I  went  back  to  [REDACTED]  to  write  my  long-  delayed  dissertation.  Practically  my  first  social  engagement  was  the  senior  tutor's  annual  sherry  party  for  new  and  re-  turned  students.  &quot;Well,  Perrin,&quot;  he  greeted  me,  &quot;it's  good  to  see  you  back.  Get  yourself  some  sherry.&quot;  I  did,  and  he  followed  me  over  to  the  sideboard.  &quot;Do  you  remember  those  letters  of  my  aunt's  that  you  cata-  logued?&quot;  he  asked.  I  nodded  dumbly.  &quot;''They've  gone  to  America,&quot;  he  said,  laughing  as  if  it  were  some  kind  of  joke  between  us.  &quot;Leon  Edel-do  you  know  him?-has  carried  them  off  to  New  York.  I  believe  he's  considering  them  for  a  new  collective  edition  he  has  in-ah-'the  works.&quot;  Your  countrymen  are  certainly  tireless  scholars,  ha-ha.&quot;  It's  not  the  ending  Henry  James  would  have  used.  But  then  James  was  not  a  very  good  scholar.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  wasn't  even  a  college  man. "