 b"NOW  that  I  am  an  American,  N  with  my  racial  background  lost  in  the  great  melting  pot,  my  way  is  untrammelled  and  forthright,  but  during  the  first  twenty-seven  years  of  my  life,  when  I  was  a  Nova  Scotian,  I  was  caught  in  a  kind  of  racial  triangle.  Because  the  province  of  Nova  Scotia  is  too  sparsely  populated  to  be  able  to  ho-  mogenize  backgrounds  in  the  American  fashion,  most  Nova  Scotians  go  through  life  tagged  according  to  their  racial  de-  scent-English,  French,  or  Scottish.  I  am  of  French  parentage.  The  village  where  I  was  born  and  where  my  family  has  lived  for  six  generations  is  situated  deep  in  Scottish  territory,  but  it  has  a  completely  French  population,  It  was  founded  in  1756,  a  few  months  after  the  declaration  of  war  between  England  and  [REDACTED],  by  a  party  of  thirteen  refu-  gees  from  some  French  debacle  farther  down  the  coast.  For  almost  fifty  years,  they  had  the  area  to  themselves;  along,  curving  peninsula  concealed  their  log  cabins  from  passing  ships,  and  a  range  of  heavily  wooded  hills  strung  out  be-  hind  them  along  the  coast  remained  unexplored  until  near  the  end  of  the  century.  At  that  time,  Scottish  sheep-  herders  began  settling  on  the  reverse  slopes  of  the  hills.  To  this  day,the  village  is  populated  almost  exclusively  by  descendants  of  the  original  thirteen  settlers-fishermen  and  their  families,  for  the  most  part,  who  raise  their  own  potatoes  and  cattle  on  the  side,  and  hook  rugs  for  the  tour-  ist  trade.  When  my  fa-  ther  was  aboy,  stran-  gers  were  rare,  and  there  was  still  some  dis-  trust  of  the  neighboring  Scots,  who  by  then  were  established  on  the  coast  to  the  north  and  south  as  well  as  in  the  hills.  Woodcutters  from  the  village  working  deep  in  the  for-  ests  sometimesheard  the  distant  drone  of  the  bagpipes,  and  our  old  people  would  interpret  thisto  mean  that  there  was  trou-  ble  brewing  over  the  hills.  There  was  a  prophecy  in  some  papers  left  by  one  of  the  thirteen  settlers  that  the  Scots  would  someday  attackus  without  warning,  and  it  was  traditionally  believed  that  the  bagpipes  stirred  up  the  Scots'fight,  ing  blood  (they  were  held  to  be  fighting  men  by  nature).  But  the  prophecy  re-  mained  unfulfilled.  By  the  time  I  was  through  high  school  and  getting  ready  to  leave  home,  the  whole  thing  had  so  far  receded  into  legend  that  at  our church  picnic  that  summer  two  bagpipers  played  almost  without  relief  for  two  days  and  caused  no  noticeable  stir.  In  one  generation,  the  surrounding  Eng-  lish-speaking  culture  had  made  deep  in-  roads  into  the  village  life,  and  the  quaint,  obsolescent  French  handed  down  by  the  thirteen  settlers  was  being  sup-  planted  by  English.  Visitors  from  neigh-  boring  villages,  travelling  salesmen,  and  American  tourists  rubbed  shoulders  with  the  natives  in  the  general  stores  and  handicraft  shops  and  in  the  single  street  that  runs  along  the  edge  of  the  harbor.  And  I  knew  from  experience  that  there  was  an  outside  world.  My  father  had  made  one  attempt,  in  1926,  when  I  was  seven  years  old,  to  establish  him-  self  in  it.  But  after  trying  his  hand  at  various  jobs  in  Halifax,  and  then  in  the  eastern  United  [REDACTED]  (he  was  well  read  in  a  great  variety  of  trades),  he  had  been  overtaken  by  the  depression,  and  in  De-  cember  of  1931  we  returned  home.  I  had  been  away  at  an  impressionable  age.  For  months  after  we  got  back,  I  awed  my  school  chums  with  accounts  of  my  travels,  and  with  my  [REDACTED]  ac-  cent,  which  I  imparted  to  both  my  Eng-  lish  and  my  native  French.  Perhaps  be-  cause  of  my  father's  experience,  I  grew  up  feeling  that  I  would  have  to  sub-  merge  my  French  birthright  if  I  was  to  get  anywhere  in  Eng-  lish-speaking  [REDACTED],  where  I  intended  to  take  myself  at  the  first  opportunity.  My  opportunity  came  in  the  fall  of  1936,|\xc2\xae  when  I  was  offereda  junior  clerk's  job  with  one  of  [REDACTED]'s  large  chartered  banks.  It  was  the  bank's  practice  to  hire  suitable  boys  just  out  of  high  school  and  to  mold  them  into  career  bank  clerks  by  means  of  a  training  program  that  includedfrequent  transfers  around  its  nationwide  network  of  branches.  To  me,  this  was  the  bank's  chief  attraction.  I  left  home  with  the  wholehearted  support  of  my  family,  except  for  the  reservation  expressed  by  my  Grandfather  Aucoin,  who  was  then  about  seventy-five,  a  frail  old  man  more  or  less  retired  on  his  small  farm  at  the  foot  of  the  hills.  He  had  a  reputation  for  wisdom,  acquired  through  his  habit  of  speaking  in  generalities  so  broad  that  they  were  likely  to  embrace  the  whole  human  race.  When  I  went  to  see  him  before  leaving,  he  was  seated  in  a  rock-  ing  chair  on  his  front  porch,  where  he " b"now  spent  most  of  his  time,  smoking  his  pipe  and  ruminating.  ''The  human  race,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;has  never  really  broken  away  from  the  tribal  groupings  of  the  Old  Testament.  Oh,  people  move  around  now-up  and  down,  in  auto-  mobiles.  But  mix  them  all  up  together  in  some  big  city  and  they  still  seek  out  their  own.  Now,  you  say  you're  going  to  work  for  strangers.  In  a  bank.  That's  a  good  trade.  I  have  no  objection  to  our  young  men  going  out  among  the  Scotch,  to  learn,  and  show  themwhat  we  can  do.  But  after  a  while  they  should  come  back  here,  where  they  belong.&quot;  The  words  he  used  were  &quot;\xc3\xa9trangers&quot;  and  &quot;\xc3\xa9cossots;&quot;  in  our  village,  the  terms  were  synonymous.  Even  my  grand-  father,  for  all  his  profundities,  was  in-  clined  to  view  the  human  race  as  avast  sea  of  Scotsmen,  with  the  other  nation-  alities  grouped  among  them,  here  and  there,  in  little  islands.  I  felt  that  way  myself.     HE  bank  was  in  a  small  town,  which  I  shall  call  Benacady,  be-  yond  the  Scottish  hills.  Its  chief  historical  monument,  set  in  a  pasture  bordered  with  raspberry  briars,  was  a  pile  of  stones  and  rotting  timbers  flanked  by  two  ancient  cannons-the  remains  of  a  blockhouse  that  the  original  British  set-  tlers  had  erectedagainst  the  French  and  the  Micmac  Indians.  Shortly  after  its  completion,  a  combined  force  of  these  had  swept  in  from  the  south  and  mas-  sacred  the  entire  population.  The  mod-  ern  town  of  Benacady  stands  on  the  site  of  this  ill-fated  settlement.  By  rights  of  martyrdom,  it  became  the  county  seat  in  1865,  and  flourished  modestly  until  a  political  changeover  in  1919  moved  the  county  government  to  an-  other  town,  thirty  miles  to  the  south.  By  1936,  Benacady  was  exhausted  and  half  deserted,  its  population  (largely  Scottish,  with  a  high  count  of  aging  lum-  berjacks  and  superannuated  municipal  clerks)  concentrated  along  Main  Street  and  in  three  orfour  cross  lanes.  The  bank  was  a  relic  from  prosperous  days-an  oversized  and  gloomy  office,  with  a  great  dealof  varnished  mahogany  and  scrolled  grillwork.  In  this  baroque  setting,  an  austere  and  precarious  bank-  ing  business  was  carried  on.  The  staff  was  down  to  three  (in  1919  there  had  been  seven).  Deposits  had  dropped  to  below  a  quarter  ofa  million.  The  branch  was  hardly  worth  keeping  open  any  longer.  But  to  me,  entering  its  working  space  for  the  first  time,  on  a  Monday  morning  in  November,  it  was  the  threshold  of  the  outside  world.  From  their  twin  portraits  on  the  lobby  wall,  the  president  and  the  general  " b"manager  seemed  to  be  taking  stock  of  me  through  their  gold-rimmed  glasses.  I  felt  that  they  were  placing  their  trust  in  me,  a  Frenchman,  and  I  was  deter-  mined  they  should  not  regret  it.  I  was  not  a  natural  bank  clerk,  and  when  at  the  end  of  my  three  months'  probation  I  was  taken  on  permanently,  it  was  largely  due  to  the  patient  efforts  of  MacEachern,  the  head  clerk,  and  Mr.  Gidney,  the  manager.  In  guiding  me  through  my  apprenticeship,  Mac-  Eachern  tried  to  impress  on  me  the  importance  of  my  work.  Mr.  Gidney,  on  the  other  hand,  advised  me  to  take  it  easy.  &quot;You'll  learn  in  time,&quot;  he  kept  telling  me.  &quot;Just  remember  that  any  damn  fool  can  become  a  bank  clerk.&quot;  With  these  conflicting  directions,  I  slowly  learned  my  trade.  I  had  some  difficulty  at  first  in  distinguishing  be-  tween  debits  and  credits,  and  when,  shortly  after  the  new  year,  I  was  given  the  savings  ledgers  to  post,  there  was  chaos  in  that  department  for  a  time,  particularly  in  the  financial  records  of  the  Gaelic  Society.  'The  first  few  pages  of  their  bankbook  for  1937  were  a  mess  of  blots,  of  figures  written  over  one  an-  other,  crossed  out,  and  rewritten  in  the  margins.  I  heard  that  questions  were  being  asked  about  the  book.  At  one  of  the  monthly  meetings  of  the  Society,  the  president,  Mr.  MacGillivary,  a  former  county  clerk  and  a  man  with  an  eye  for  a  neat  page  of  figures,  had  examined  the  book  himself.  He  had  shaken  his  head  and  asked  if  anyone  present  knew  who  I  was  and  where  I  came  from.  The  in-  formation  had  been  supplied,  and  re-  marks  had  been  made:  &quot;'Never  heard  of  a  Frenchman  in  the  bank  before.&quot;  &quot;Small  wonder,  if  this  is  a  sample  of  their  bookkeeping.&quot;  &quot;An  emotional  race.&quot;  It  was  a  setback,  undoubtedly.  But  then  one  day  Mr.  Gidney  gave  me  a  tip  on  bookkeeping  that  brought  me  surging  forward  again.  &quot;Before  you  lay  a  pen  to  a  customer's  account,&quot;he  said,  &quot;imagine  that  it's  your  own  account,  and  you  won't  be  tempted  to  debit  him  with  a  deposit.&quot;  It  worked.  Viewed  in  a  personal  light,  the  principles  of  bookkeeping  sud-  denly  became  intelligible.  No  less  a  cus-  tomer  than  Mr.  MacGillivary  com-  mented  on  the  change.  He  was  talking  to  Mr.  Gidney  in  the  lobby  one  day,  when  he  caught  sight  of  me  behind  the  grille.  &quot;Is  that  the  young  man  who  writes  up  the  Society's  bankbook?&quot;  he  asked  Mr.  Gidney.  &quot;'That's  the  bird.&quot;  &quot;There  has  been  a  tremendous  im-  provement  in  his  work  lately.  He  de-  " b"serves  to  be  commended.&quot;  He  turned  to  me.  &quot;Congratulations,  my  boy!&quot;  I  was  highly  gratified.  &quot;I  guess  you  can  teach  bookkeeping  to  a  Frenchman,  after  all,&quot;  Mr.  Gidnev  said.  &quot;Well,&quot;  said  Mr.  MacGillivary,  with  a  wink,  &quot;we'll  consider  him  a  member  of  the  English-speaking  com-  munity  from  now  on.&quot;  I  now  knew  of  no  one  who  questioned  my  standing  in  the  English-speaking  community,  with  the  unimportant  ex-  ception  of  Wilkie  Smythe-Baldwin,  the  old  tailor  who  made  Mr.  Gidney's  deplorable  suits.  He  was  not  really  a  tailor  at  heart-he  was  a  patriot  and  a  poet.  On  the  anniversaries  of  Canadian  heroes,  he  contributed  memorial  verses  to  the  Benacady  Weekly  Bulletin,  which  were  chiefly  remarkable  for  their  length  (they  sometimes  ran  to  two  in-  stallments)  and  the  intensity  of  their  emotion.  A  number  of  them  made  bit-  ter  allusion  to  the  Benacady  massacre.  Smythe-Baldwin  had  never  forgiven  the  French  for  this  deed.  One  day  in  the  bank,  I  was  leaning  over  the  counter  discussing  with  an  Indian  lumberjack  some  entries  in  his  account,  when  Smythe-Baldwin  walked  in.  Mr.  Gidney,  who  was  standing  idly  in  the  doorway  of  his  office,  pointed  us  out  to  him.  &quot;Look  at  them,  Wilkie,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Plotting  another  massacre,  sure  as  hell.&quot;  There  was  no  humor  in  the  look  Smythe-Baldwin  threw  at  me.  It  was  cold  and  accusing,  full  of  acrimony  at  that  ancient  outrage.  I  had  the  decency  to  blush.  One  afternoon,  when  I  was  posting  the  petty-cash  register,  Mr.  Gidney  strolled  out  of  his  office,  spatinto  the  Waterloo  stove-a  large  cast-iron  pagoda  that  occupied  the  center  of  the  fLoor-and  perched  himself  on  the  stool  beside  me.  &quot;Do  you  ever  wonder  what  lies  ahead  of  you  in  this  business,  Au-  coin?&quot;  he  asked.  I  gave  him  my  full  attention.  The  question  had  been  in  my  mind  for  weeks.  MacEachern  had  told  me  that  if  I  did  my  work  conscientiously  I  would  probably  get  ahead,  but  beyond  that  he  could  not  predict-no  man  had  any  idea  of  where  he  might  be  going  next  until  his  notice  came  down  from  head  office.  &quot;I  understand  the  bank  doesn't  com-  mit  itself  in  matters  like  that,&quot;  I  said  cautiously.  &quot;It  tries  not  to,  but  this  is  an  old,  respectable  institution,  Aucoin,  and  it  has  fallen  into  certain  habits.  It  has  traditions.  For  instance,  you  might  have  noticed  quite  a  Scotch  atmosphere  around  here?&quot;  He  rolled  his  eyes  to-  " b"ward  MacEachern,  who  was  rubber-  stamping  some  checks  at  the  end  of  the  counter.  ''That's  the  Scotch  tradition.  The  Scotch  have  a  talent  for  banking.&quot;  MacEachern  nodded  pleasantly.  &quot;'True,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;They  were  very  prominent  among  the  founders,  and  they  are  still  well  rep-  resented  all  up  and  down  the  echelons.  Right,  MacEachern?&quot;  &quot;Quite  right.  Except  in  the  French  belt,  of  course.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  In  the  French  belt  around  the  province  of  [REDACTED],  Aucoin,  everything  is  French-the  managers  and  staffs,  the  bank's  name  above  the  door,  the  check-  books,  deposit  slips,  letterheads.  Every-  thing  is  done  to  give  the  French  cus-  tomer  up  there  the  illusion  that  he's  dealing  with  a  genuinely  French  bank.  What  kind  of  French  do  you  speak,  Aucoin?&quot;  The  question  took  me  by  surprise.  &quot;The  only  French  I  speak,&quot;  I  said,  &quot;%s  my  home-town  jargon.&quot;  &quot;And  that's  corrupt,  I  hear?&quot;  &quot;Itis,&quot;  I  said.  (One  reason  the  people  back  home  had  always  been  receptive  to  the  English  language  was  that  they  knew  their  native  French  was  useless  except  among  themselves.  Two  sum-  mers  earlier,  when  our  harbor  had  come  in  for  its  periodic  dredging,  the  anti-  quated  and  noisy  dredge  the  Dominion  government  had  assigned  to  the  job  had  been  manned,  presumably  as  a  political  good-will  gesture,  by  a  French  crew  from  the  province  of  [REDACTED].  For  all  the  sense  we  had  been  able  to  make  of  them,  or  they  of  us,  [REDACTED]  might  just  as  well  have  had  us  dredged  out  by  the  Chinese.)  &quot;It's  obsolete.&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  nodded.  &quot;Hardly  pre-  sentable  in  the  province  of  [REDACTED].  In  time,  I  suppose,  you'll  become  extinct.&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so.&quot;  The  thought  sad-  dened  me,  but  only  momentarily.  Ac-  tually,  I  was  all  for  our  becoming  ex-  tinct-or  Anglicized,  as  Mr.  Gidney  no  doubt  meant.  It  was  our  only  practical  course.  I  considered  myself  just  about  extinct  already.  &quot;What  I  started  to  tell  you,&quot;  said  Mr.  Gidney,  &quot;was  that  your  first  trans-  fer  will  probably  be  to  the  main  branch,  in  Halifax.  They'll  polish  you  up  there  a  little  and  then  hustle  you  out  to  the  province  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  took  a  stump  of  cigar  from  his  vest  pocket  and  lit  it.  &quot;'The  French  belt.&quot;  I  stared  at  him  in  disbelief.  We  sat  silent  for  a  minute,  listening  to  the  steady  pounding  of  MacEachern's  rub-  ber  stamp.  &quot;It's  not  as  though  my  Eng-  lish  wasn't  good  enough,&quot;  I  said  at  last.  &quot;It  wouldn't  matter  if  you  were  an-  " b" other  William  Jennings  Bryan,&quot;  Mr.  Gidney  said.  &quot;As  far  as  head  office  is  concerned,  a  Frenchman  is  a  French-  man  and  he  belongs  in  the  French  belt.  That's  the  tradition.&quot;  He  waved  his  cigar.  &quot;Of  course,  there's  always  the  rum  belt-the  West  Indie-where  nationalities  don't  mean  much.  'They  could  send  you  there.&quot;  My  first  transfer,  as  Mr.  Gidney  had  predicted,  was  to  Halifax,  and  I  spent  several  months  there,  with  no  indication  that  I  was  destined  for  the  province  of  [REDACTED],  much  less  the  West  Indies.  But  this  was  1939,  and  a  different  kind  of  immediate  future  was  looming  up  for  me.  Halifax  Harbor  began  to  bris-  tle  with  warships.  The  Citadel,  which  overlooks  the  city,  was  closed  to  the  pub-  lic,  and  long  barrels  of  anti-aircraft  guns  probed  the  sky  from  its  summit.  We  were  at  war.  In  February  of  1940,  I  was  in  the  Army,  and  my  struggle  to  rid  myself  of  my  French  background  en-  tered  a  new  phase.  SPENT  most  of  the  war  in  a  CanadianHighland  regiment  re-  cruited  largely  from  the  Scottish  popu-  lation  of  our  section  of  Nova  Scotia.  We  arrived  in  England  a  few  weeks  after  the  Dunkirk  evacuation,  and  were  givena  stretch  of  coast  between  Brighton  and  Eastbourne  to  defend.  The  area  had  already  been  cleared  of  civilians  and  been  barbwired,  and  our  duties  consisted  of  patrolling  the  beach  -  and  watching  the  Channel  through  tele-  scopes  that  had  been  mounted  on  the  upper  veranda  of  an  evacuated  hotel.  For  the  first  few  weeks,  I  was  on  beach  patrol,  but  then  I  was  transferred  to  the  veranda,  where  life  was  more  relaxed,  but  also  more  boring-nothing  ever  dis-  turbed  the  great  expanse  of  water  we  were  watching  except  the  sea  gulls,  and  an  occasional  British  destroyer  hurry-  ing  by  along  the  coast.  Our  only  distraction  while  on  duty  was  the  bagpipe  band.  The  pipers  and  drummers  were  quartered  in  the  ball-  room  on  the  ground  floor  of  the  hotel,  and  marches,  strathspeys,  and  reels  wafted  up  to  us.  In  the  mornings,  the  band  paraded  on  the  beach,  under  the  pipe  major,  Angus  Ross,  who  was  a  diversion  in  himself.  Ross  was  a  pic-  ||  turesque  giant,  and  a  favorite  of  the  generals.  From  the  distance  of  the  -|  veranda,  his  head  looked  like  a  beautiful-  ly  lathed  block  of  mahogany,  tufted  with  hair  and  eyebrows  of  a  lighter,  fiery  red,  with  the  black  ribbons  of  his  Glengarry  fluttering  behind  in  the  breeze.  His  legs  below  his  kilt  had  the  solidity  of  tree  trunks.  On  parade,  he  wore  a  leopard  skin  over  his  tunic  and" b"carried  a  mace,  and  he  looked  like  some  barbaric  war  god.  Those  of  us  assigned  to  watch  duty  were  also  quartered  in  the  ballroom,  and  I  had  moved  in  with  my  duffelbag,  the  morning  of  my  transfer,  with  con-  siderable  exhilaration.  'There  I  was,  in  the  very  heart  of  Scottish  life  and  tradi-  tion.  A  bagpiper  in  kilt  and  undershirt,  who  was  blasting  away  on  his  pipes  at  the  bunk  next  to  mine,  nodded  to  me  cordially  without  interrupting  his  music.  I  sat  on  my  bunk  and  watched  him,  ad-  miring  his  solid  Scotchness,  the  casual  ease  with  which  he  executed  his  uproari-  ous  Highland  medley.  I  had  not  been  in  the  ballroom  many  days  before  I  decided  to  try  my  hand  at  becoming  a  plper  my-  self.  I  spoke  to  Cameron,  the  piper  who  had  been  playing  the  medley,  and  he  offered  to  lend  me  a  spare  practice  chanter.  (A  practice  chanter  is  the  flute  part  of  the  bagpipe,  with  a  muted,  rather  squeaky  reed  substituted  for  the  lustier  business  one.)  Cameron  assured  me  that  once  a  man  had  mastered  the  chanter  he  was  practically  a  bagpiper.  He  showed  me  the  finger  positions  on  the  instrument,  and  soon  I  was  picking  out  a  few  Scottish  airs  on  it.  Like  other  musicians,  bagpipers  are  temperamental.  For  weeks  on  end,  Cameron  and  three  or  four  of  his  com-  rades  would  pass  their  spare  time  sitting  on  their  bunks,  blowing  gloomily  on  their  chanters,  speaking  seldom  and  only  in  monosyllables.  Then,  without  warn-  ing  or  leave,  they  would  take  off  for  re-  mote  parts  of  [REDACTED],  usually  Dundee  or  the  Isle  of  Skye.  (Glasgow  they  scorned  as  an  Irish  dump.)  They  were  sometimes  gone  so  long  that  life  in  the  ballroom  closed  in  and  obliterated  all  trace  of  them;  their  things  would  be  removed  to  the  quartermaster  stores,  their  bunks  would  be  assigned  to  the  reinforcements  we  were  constantly  re-  ceiving  from  [REDACTED].  But  inevitably,  some  night,  when  the  ballroom  was  fast  asleep,  there  would  be  loud  voices  and " b" the  clumping  of  hobnailed  boots  in  the  corridors,  sudden  light  as  the  switch  was  turned  on--and  there  they  would  be  in  their  rumpled  finery,  shouting  greet-  ings,  routing  the  cooks  out  of  bed,  and  pressing  half-empty  bottles  of  bad  whiskey  on  drowsy,  cursing  comrades.  The  pipe  major's  reaction  to  these  es-  capades  was  explosive  and  prolonged.  One  morning,  after  a  roll  call  that  re-  vealed  two  pipers  freshly  A.W.O.L.,  with  a  third  piper  and  a  drummer  al-  ready  serving  time  in  the  leatherhead  de-  tention  camp  for  similar  offenses,  Ross  was  holding  forth  in  the  ballroom.  &quot;'You  call  yourselves  Highlanders!&quot;  he  roared  in  his  parade-ground  voice,  which  could  carry  over  the  massed  pipe  bands  of  the  First  Canadian  Corps,.  &quot;You  don't  know  the  meaning  of  the  word!  If  this  keeps  on,  we'll  have  to  disband,  that's  all.  We'll  see  then  how  you  like  it  in  the  rifle  companies!  It's  all  one  to  me  if  this  outfit  ends  up  with  a  damned  bugle  band!  I'll  go  to  the  Black  Watch.  There's  no'  a  Highland  regiment  in  the  Canadian  Army  wouldn't  snap  me  up!&quot;  He  strutted,  snorting,  among  the  bunks,  torn  between  outrage  and  vanity.  &quot;Five  head  of  pipers  I'm  left  with  forthe  brigadier's  parade  Saturday  morning.  It's  a  damned  disgrace  to  the  regi-  ment!&quot;  We  had  heard  this  many  times  be-  fore,  and  I  stopped  listening  and  fell  to  polishing  some  buttons  and  whistling  the  &quot;Pibroch  o'  Donald  Dhu.&quot;  The  pipe  major's  voice  ceased  presently,  and  I  assumed  he  had  left  the  ballroom.  But  a  minute  later  I  looked  up,  still  whis-  tling,  to  discover  him  seated  on  Cam-  eron's  bunk,  watching  me,  his  huge  hands  on  his  knees,  his  head  cocked  in  a  listening  attitude.  &quot;You  have  an  ear  for  the  music!&quot;  he  roared  ingratiatingly.  &quot;Och,  aye,&quot;  I  admitted.  \xc2\xab&quot;You  don't  pipe,  by  any  chance?&quot;  &quot;Not  yet,  sir,  but  I've  been  taking  lessons.&quot;  *  &quot;Have  you,  now!  Let's  hear  you,  then.  Cameron,  lend  this  boy  your  chanter.&quot;  I  took  the  proffered  chanter,  re-  moved  the  mouthpiece,  and  tested  the  reed  by  flipping  it  with  my  little  finger  in  the  approved  manner,  reassembled  it,  and  blew  a  few  recognizable  bars  of  &quot;Hieland  Laddie,&quot;  our  regimental  march.  When  I  had  finished,  the  pipe  major  stared  at  me  glassily.  He  stood  up  and  walked  around,  sizing  me  up  from  dif-  ferent  points  in  the  ballroom.  Finally  he  left,  without  comment.  That  evening,  Cameron  told  me  that  I  was  to  be  groomed  for  a  bagpiper.  The  pipe  major  followed  my  progress " b"closely.  He  had  me  excused  from  my  regular  duties,  to  put  in  more  prac-  tice,  until  I  became  known  to  lesser  noncoms  as  an  Exception,  an  en-  viable  category  for  a  private  soldier  to  be  in.  But  it  didn't  last.  Included  in  a  batch  of  reinforcements  we  received  in  the  summer  of  1941  were  three  Mac-  Neil  brothers  from  Cumberland  Coun-  ty,  all  former  coal  miners,  and  each  an  accomplished  bagpiper.  'The  pipe  major  was  overjoyed.  He  went  to  the  re-  inforcement  depot  to  greet  them  per-  sonally,  and  brought  two  of  them  back  in  a  jeep,  bypassing  regular  channels.  He  herded  them  into  the  ballroom.  &quot;Here,&quot;  he  announced,  &quot;are  two  fine  pipers  for  the  band-MacNeil,  A.,  and  MacNeil,  D.  Cooling  his  heels  henceforth  in  the  mortar  platoon  will  be  another  fine  piper-MacNeil,  N.  He  will  be  waiting  to  stepinto  the  shoes  of  the  first  one  of  you  who  takes  off  for  the  Isle  of  Skye.  Govern  yourselves  accordingly.&quot;  His  interest  in  me  collapsed  over-  night.  It  was  probably  just  as  well,  for  it  was  beginning  to  dawn  on  me  that  I  was  not  really  a  musician  at  heart.  I  didn't  have  the  patience.  Neverthe-  less,  I  continued  to  practice,  off  and  on,  and  when  I  left  the  ballroom  to  join  B  Company  a  few  weeks  after  the  ar-  rival  of  the  MacNeils,  I  took  with  me  Cameron's  spare  chanter,  which  he  had  given  me  outright.  I  lost  it,  eventually,  along  with  my  shaving  kit,  a  change  of  socks,  and  the  few  other  items  I  carried  in  my  small  pack,  in  a  quagmire  on  the  approaches  to  Rimini,  in  the  fall  of  1944.  T  the  end  of  the  war,  I  went  back  to  the  Halifax  branch  of  the  bank.  I  was  given  a  better  job  than  the  one  I  had  left.  Salaries  were  up.  There  was  a  cost-of-living  bonus,  a  thing  I  had  thought  existed  only  in  the  minds  of  impractical  Left  Wingers.  And  the  bank  was  allowing  its  returning  service-  men  to  put  in  their  first  three  months  at  the  branch  of  their  choice.  In  this  progressive  atmosphere,  my  old  appre-  hensions  about  being  sent  to  the  French  belt  seemed  out  of  date,  and  Isettled  down  withan  easy  mind.  I  was  left  in  Halifax  for  a  year.  Then  suddenly  I  received  notice  that  I  was  being  transferred  to  the  province  of  [REDACTED].  The  day  before  I  was  to  leave,  I  was  sentfor  by  the  assistant  personnel  di-  rector,  Mr.  Giles,  whose  office  was  in  the  divisional  chambers,  on  an  upper  floor  of  the  building.I  knew  Mr.  Giles  slightly,  having  had  a  short  interview  " b"with  him  on  my  return  from  overseas.  He  was  a  dashing  figure  ofa  man  (he  had  been  an  amateur  hockey  star  in  the  thirties),  with  unexpectedly  heavy  man-  ners.  When  I  entered  his  office,  he  looked  up  and  smiled  faintly.  &quot;Ah,  Mr.  Aucoin!&quot;  He  attempted  the  French  pronunciation  of  my  name.  &quot;I  suppose  you're  happy  to  be  going  among  your  own  people?&quot;  On  the  way  up  in  the  elevator,  I  had  considered  protesting  my  transfer.  The  idea  of  switching  over  from  an  Eng-  lish  to  a  French  culture  appealed  to  me  even  less  now  than  it  had  before  the  war.  Anyway,  it  seemed  illogical.  Here  I  was,  the  next  thing  to  a  Scotsman-  practically  a  bagpiper.  I  was  wearing  \\|  my  regimental  tie-the  Argyll  and  Sutherland  tartan-and  I  fingered  it  ostentatiously.  Mr.  Giles  ignored  the  gesture.  He  leafed  through  some  documents  in  a  folder  on  his  desk-my  dossier,  appar-  \\|  ently.  &quot;There's  just  one  little  thing  I  wanted  to  take  up  with  you  before  you  leave,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Your  first  name.  Clifford.  It's  not  very  French.&quot;  &quot;I  was  named  after  the  author  of  a  bookon  navigation  my  father  used  to  read,&quot;  I  explained.  &quot;He  was  a  Swede.&quot;  Mr.  Giles'  head  shot  up.  &quot;A  Swede?&quot;  &quot;''The  author  of  the  book.&quot;  &quot;Oh.&quot;  He  relaxed  in  his  chair.  &quot;Well,  about  your  name.  A  French-  man  who  spoke  little  English,  or  none  at  all,  might  have  difficulty  getting  his  tongue  around  it,  don't  you  think?&quot;  &quot;He  might.&quot;  &quot;In  other  words,  it  would  be  a  handicap  to  you  in  the  province  of  [REDACTED].&quot;  &quot;I  suppose  so,  in  that  sense.&quot;  &quot;However,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;all  is  not  lost.  You  have  a  middle  name.&quot;  He  rum-  maged  in  the  folder  again  and  came  up  with  a  buff-colored  card.  &quot;A  good  French  ong  this  time.  'Joseph,'&quot;  he  read.  That  middle  name  had  been  given  to  me  simply  to  appease  the  old  parish  priest  who  had  baptized  me,and  who  had  grumbled  at  sending  a  French  boy  into  the  world  saddled  with  a  pagan,  English  name.  I  had  never  used  it.  But,  of  course,  it  was  on  my  baptismal  certificate,  which  I  had  had  to  produce  on  entering  the  bank.  Mr.  Giles  scribbled  on  a  sheet  of  notepaper,  which  he  then  clipped  to  the  buff  card.  &quot;So,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;we'll  just  reverse  the  order  of  your  names  on  your  records,  andyou  will  be  Joseph  C.  Aucoin  from  now  on.&quot;  He  closed  the  folder  and  pushed  back  his  chair,  with  an  air  of  having  done  with  formalities.  &quot;All  right?  I  think  you'll  appreciate " b"it  once  you  start  introducing  yourself  up  there.&quot;  He  twirled  his  pencil  in  his  fingers.  &quot;Speaking  of  names,  by  the  way,  isn't  it  common  among  the  French  to  have  many  of  them-three  or  four,  even  more?&quot;  &quot;I  believe  it  is  in  the  province  of  [REDACTED],  but  where  I  come  from  single  names  are  the  rule.&quot;  &quot;There's  a  lot  to  be  said  for  multi-  ple  names,  though,&quot;  Mr.  Giles  said.  &quot;When  I  worked  in  head  office,  I  was  always  impressed  by  the  manager  we  had  at  St.  Catherine  and  [REDACTED].  Genevigve  branch,  in  [REDACTED].  He's  retired  now,  but  I  never  forgot  his  name-Mr.  An-  toine  J.  A.  M.  C.  Papineau.  Something  distinctive  about  a  name  like  that,  what?&quot;  &quot;Very  distinctive,&quot;  I  agreed.  He  tapped  his  thumbnail  with  the  end  of  his  pencil.  &quot;You  know,  as  long  as  we're  changing  your  records,  we  could  easily  give  you  a  few  extra  ini-  tials-show  them  officially  as  being  for  identification  only.  We've  done  it  be-  fore.  Mr.  Joseph  J.  A.  M.  C.  Aucoin.  What?  How  does  that  sound  to  you?&quot;  I  said  it  sounded  fine  but  I  guessed  it  wasn't  for  me.  &quot;No?  Well,  it  was  just  a  thought.  Entirely  up  to  you,  of  course.&quot;  He  rose  abruptly.  &quot;Very  well,  then.  Plain  Joseph  C.  Aucoin  it  is.&quot;  In  the  French  suburb  of  [REDACTED]  where  I  ended  up,  I  got  along  better  than  I  had  expected.  With  a  little  care,  much  of  my  native  Frenchwas  usable,  and  almost  from  the  first  I  was  able  to  get  by  on  that  and  a  few  banking  ex-  pressions  I  quickly  picked  up.  To  the  customers  who  expressed  curiosity  about  my  halting  French  I  explained  that  I  had  spent  much  of  my  life  in  the  United  [REDACTED]-a  fiction  I  latched  on  to  because  it  was  more  easily  rendered  in  French  than  the  long  rigmarole  I  would  have  had  to  translate  to  acquaint  them  with  the  true  facts.  At  the  end  of  two  years,  I  had  made  the  changeover  from  Scot  to  French-  man.  I  was  enjoying  my  new  life,  and  when,  about  that  time,  I  accepted  an  offer  of  a  job  from  a  distant  relative  in  the  United  [REDACTED],  it  was  on  no  account  because  I  wanted  to  leave  the  province  of  [REDACTED].  In  February  of  1949,  hav-  ing  put  in  my  four  weeks'  notice  and  withdrawn  my  accumulated  pension-  fund  contributions,  I  parted  regretfully  with  my  friends  in  the  French  belt,  re-  sumed  my  original  name,  and  crossed  over  into  the  United  [REDACTED].  In  eleven  years  here,  no  one  has  ever  asked  me  about  my  racial  background,  except  in  idle  curiosity,  and,  being  as  much  a  mixture  as  my  neighbors,  I  often  feel" b'that  I  have  the  perfect  endowment  for  an  American.  Nothing  remains  of  my  old  complex  except,  perhaps,  a  weak-  ness  for  plaid  neckties. '