 b"MY  immediate  reaction  when  a  M  head  studded  with  aluminum  rheostats  confronted  me  over  the  garden  gate  last  Tuesday  morn-  ing  was  one  of  perplexity.  'That  it  belonged  to  a  courier  from  outer  space  was,  I  felt,  improbable,  for  nobody  of  such  transcendent  importance  would  have  chosen  a  weedy  [REDACTED]  free-  hold  to  land  on.  Its  features,  more-  over,  were  much  too  traditional  for  an  interplanetary  nuncio;  instead  of  the  elephant  ears  and  needie-sharp  proboscis  that  science  fiction  had  prepared  me  for,  the  apparition  exhibited  a  freckled  Slavic  nose  and  wattles  ripened  by  fre-  quent  irrigations  of  malt.  In  the  same  instant,  as  I  straightened  up,  giddy  with  the  effort  of  extricating  a  mullein  from  the  cucumbers,  I  realized  that  the  spiny  coiffure  was  in  actuality  a  home  permanent  and  the  bulging  ex-  panse  of  gingham  below  it  the  rest  of  Mrs.  Kozlich,  our  current  cleaning  woman.  &quot;I  hope  I  didn't  scare  you,&quot;  she  said  tremulously,  &quot;but  I  thought  Ibetter  drive  over  and  speak  to  you  personally.  Something  funny  happened  while  you  and  the  missus  were  away  last  week-  end.&quot;  She  cast  a  quick,  nervous  glance  about  the  surrounding  eighty-three  acres  and  lowered  her  voice.  &quot;A  man  burned  a  chair  on  your  place  Friday  night.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  k43616e616461;  I  replied.  &quot;I  meant  to  call  you  so  you  wouldn't  be  alar-&quot;  &quot;I  was  so  frightened  I  al-  most  fainted,&quot;  she  pursued,  unheeding.  &quot;My  niece  Kaf-  ka  and  I  were  washing  your  upstairs  windows  around  five  o'clock  when  this  station  wagon  came  up  the  lane.  I  figured  it  was  yours&quot;  &quot;It  was  mine,  Mrs.  Koz-  lich,&quot;  I  gentled  her.  &quot;Listen  to  me,  will  you?  I  made  a  special  trip  back  from  the  city-on  purpose-to  burn  that  chair.  Do  you  under-  stand?&quot;  It  was  obvious  she  didn't,  or,  even  if  she  did,  was  determined  not  to  be  de-  nied  the  opportunity  of  a  dramatic  recital.  'The  car,  she  went  on  breathlessly,  had  traversed  a  long  field  adjacent  to  the  barn,  park-  ing  by  the  gulch  where  I  file  old  paint  cans,  leaky  gutters,  and  window  screens  for  future  reference.  The  driver  (who  bore  a  striking  resemblance  to  me,  the  ladies  decided  from  their  dis-  tant  vantage  point)  had  then  unloaded  a  large  black  easy  chair,  systematically  disembowelled  its  upholstery,  and,  while  they  watched  spellbound,  set  fire  to  it.  &quot;Go  back  there  and  look,  if  you  don't  believe  me,&quot;  she  challenged.  &quot;The  springs  are  laying  all  over  the  ground  where  he  kicked  them.  After  he  drove  out,  I  sent  Kafka  up  and  she  found  a  couple  of  scraps  like  horsehide  or  some-  thing.  It  must  have  been  a  leather  chair.&quot;  It  was  indeed,  but  what  Mrs.  Kozlich  had  witnessed,  and  what  I  prudently  decided  not  to  spell  out  for  her,  was  the  end  of  a  dream-a  romantic  quest  that  began  some  twenty-two  years  ago.  Just  when  or  how  my  yearning  for  a  tufted  black  leather  armchair  originated  I  cannot  remember.  Perhaps  some  elder-  ly  member  of  the  Rhode  Island  medical  profession,  which  I  supported  single-  handed  as  a  boy,  had  one  in  his  con-  sulting  room,  or  I  may  have  seen  the  prototype,  spavined  with  use,  in  the  pro-  fessorial  chambers  at  Brown.  At  any  rate,  among  the  fantasies  I  nurtured  in-  to  manhood-a  princely  income  and  a  sleek,  piratical  schooner  for  cruising  the  Great  Barrier  Reef,  to  mention  only  two-was  a  clear-cut  image  of  my  ideal  study.  Its  appointments  varied  from   time  to  time;  on  occasion  the  walls  were  book-lined,  or  hung  with  rare  trophies  like  Mrs.  Gray's  lechwe  or  a  sitatunga,  or  again  bare  except  for  a  few  gems  of  Impressionist  painting.  The  focus,  the  keystone  of  the  d\xc3\xa9cor,  nonetheless,  never  varied-a  capacious,  swollen  club  chair,  well  polished,  into  whose  depths  one  sank  and  somniferously  browsed  through  the  latest  English  review.  There  might  be  a  revolving  mahogany  bookcase  alongside,  but  I  wasn't  sure.  I  was  afraid  it  might  detract  from  the  rich,  baroque  impact  of  the  chair.  By  the  time  I  had  acquired  my  own  inglenook  in  the  mid-thirties,  though,  and  started  prowling  the  auction  rooms  for  my  fictive  fautewil,  I  discovered  it  was  a  chimera.  Curiosities  of  that  sort,  dealers  pityingly  confided,  had  vanished  with  the  buffalo  lap  robe  and  congress  gaiters.  They  offered  me  substitutes  that  awoke  my  outrage-knobby  mon-  strosities  of  red  plastic  that  tilted  at  the  touch  of  a  spring,  slippery  leatherette  abstractions  that  pitchforked  one  into  prenatal  discomfort  inches  off  the  floor.  The  more  I  insisted,  the  more  derisive  they  became.  &quot;Look,  Grover  Cleve-  land,&quot;  one  of  them  finally  snapped  at  me  after  my  third  approach.  &quot;Harmoniums  and  water  wings,  diavolos  and  pungs  we  got,  but  Victorian  easy  chairs-\xc2\xbbyet.  And  now,  excuse  me,  will  you?  I  have  another  nudnick  here  wants  a  round  table  like  King  Arthur's.&quot;  The  first  intimation  that  my  will-o'-the-wisp,  how-  ever  unattainable,  did  in  fact  still  exist  came  in  1938.  Yawning  through  a  Tim  McCoy  Western  at  a  ru-  ral  cinema  in  our  town-  ship,  I  was  suddenly  elec-  trified  by  the  furnishings  of  the  sheriff's  office.  Beside  the  period  roll-top  desk  stood  a  voluptuously  padded  armchair,  not  only  covered  in  black  leather  but  (tears  rose  to  my  eyes)  its  out-  lines  accented  by  brass  nail-  heads.  I  whipped  to  my  feet.  &quot;That's  it!  That's  it!&quot;  I  fluted,  my  voice  gone  contralto  with  agitation.  &quot;That's  my  chair!&quot;  I  was  so  overwhelmed,  to  be  candid,  that  it  required  the  intervention  of  the  man-  ager  to  persuade  me  to  re-  sume  my  seat,  and  subse-  quent  accounts,  gleaned  by  my  wife  from  local  trades-  people,  hinted  I  had  suc-  cumbed  to  a  Holy  Roller  sei-  zure.  Undaunted,  I  took     " b"care  to  note  the  production  details  of  the  film  against  some  future  visit  to  [REDACTED],  and  chancing  to  be  there  shortly,  at  once  proceeded  to  track  down  the  chair.  It  was  relatively  simple.  In  a  matter  of  minutes,  Columbia's  art  department  disclosed  the  name  of  the  warehouse  that  supplied  such  props,  and,  cramming  my  pockets  with  enough  rhino  to  vanquish  any  obstacle,  I  pelted  over.  'The  manager  of  the  enterprise,  a  foxy-nose  with  a  serried  gray  marcel  that  mounted  like  a  linotype  keyboard,  was  the  soul  of  courtesy.  &quot;Of  course  I  remember  the  piece,&quot;  he  acknowledged  silkily.  &quot;This  way,  please.&quot;  The  freight  elevator  discharged  us  in  a  shadowy  loft  on  the  sixth  floor,  where  furniture  of  every  conceivable  epoch  lay  stored.  He  dove  into  the  maze  and  yanked  aside  a  dust  cover.  ''There,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Is  this  the  one  you  mean?&quot;  An  inexpressible  radiance  suffused  me.  The  chair  was  so  much  more  beautiful  than  my  cinematic  memory  that  speech  was  inadequate.  It  was  a  haven,  a  refuge;  I  saw  myself  lolling  in  it,  churchwarden  poised,  evolving  new  cosmogonies,  quoting  abstruse  ref-  erences  to  Occam's  razor  and  Paley's  watch.  &quot;Oh,  God,&quot;  I  choked,  extract-  ing  a  fistful  of  bills.  &quot;I-  You've  made  me  so  happy!  How  much?&quot;  &quot;How  much  what?&quot;  he  asked  wood-  enly.  I  explained  that  I  was  prepared  to  buy  it,  to  buy  the  whole  warehouse  if  necessary.  He  uttered  a  sharp,  sardonic  hoot  and  bade  me  wipe  my  chin.  &quot;Not  for  sale,  Buster,&quot;  he  said,  replacing  its  shroud.  &quot;Youknow  what  this  thing  brings  in  every  year  in  rentals?  Why,  last  month  alone  it  worked  in  'Addled  Saddles,&quot;  'Drums  Along  the  Yazoo'-&quot;  Short  of  manacling  myself  to  the  chair,  I  used  every  inducement  I  could  marshal  to  obtain  it,  including  bribery,  pleas  of  medical  need,  and  threats  of  legal  duress,  but  the  man  was  intrac-  table.  Iretired  so  crushed  in  spirit  that  I  inclined  to  be  somewhat  paranoid  about  the  subject  over  the  ensuing  decade.  The  world  supply  of  tufted  black  leath-  er,  I  frequently  told  my  friends,  was  be-  ing  manipulatedby  a  small  ring  of  in-  terior  decorators,  men  who  would  stick  at  nothing  to  bilk  me.  I  was  telling  it  to  one  of  them,  an  advertising  nabob  and  self-admitted  expert  in  arranging  the  impossible,  ata  Turkish  bath,  when  he  brought  me  up  short.  &quot;Wait  a  minute,&quot;  said  Broomhead  imperiously.  &quot;Outside  of  [REDACTED]  or  the  Reform  Club,  are  any  of  these  chairs  still  extant?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  in  Washington,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;They've  some  honeys  in  the  Senate  corridors-the  real  McCoy,  soto  speak-  but  nobody  could  ever  wangle-&quot;  He  produced  a  solid-gold  pencil  the  diameter  of  a  needle  from  his  towel  and  scrawled  a  note  on  a  masseur.  &quot;Relax,&quot;  he  commanded.  &quot;Your  worries  are  over.  I  happen  to  know  a  politico  or  two  down  there  who'd  go  pretty  ...  far  ...  out  of  his  way  to  accommodate  Curt  Broomhead.&quot;  I  automatically  dismissed  the  asser-  tion  as  bluster,  until  his  secretary  phoned  me  a  month  later.  A  certain  Mr.  X,  whom  it  was  inadvisable  to  identify,  in  an  equally  mysterious  government  bu-  reau,  was  laid  up  with  croup.  On  his  recovery,  he  would  promptly  expe-  dite  the  item  requested  by  Mr.  Tuftola,  which,  she  whispered,  was  the  pseudo-  nym  her  boss  had  adopted  for  the  trans-  action.  While  elated  at  the  news,  I  ex-  perienced  a  vague  malaise.  It  bothered  me  that  some  fine  old  lawgiver,  a  chiv-  alrous  Southerner  out  of  George  Cable,  witha  white  imperial  and  arthritis,  might  be  unceremoniously  deposed  from  his  chair  because  of  my  whim.  I  was  also  positive  that  I  had  heard  a  muffled  click  during  our  phone  conversation,  as  though  the  line  were  bugged.  Before  I  could  cry  peccavi  and  tout  Broomhead  off,  however,  the  affair  took  on  jugger-  naut  momentum.  Telegrams  and  mes-  sages  proliferated,  warning  me  that  Mr.  X's  favor  was  intransit,  and  I  received  unmistakable  assurance  from  a  Chinese  fortune  cookie  that  destiny  was  arrang-  ing  a  surprise.  A  fortnight  thence,  two  orangutans  in  expressmen's  aprons  dumped  a  formidable  crate  on  the  side-  walk  outside  our  New  York  brown-  stone.  After  an  ugly  jurisdictional  squabble,  they  departed,  leaving  the  handyman  and  me  to  wrestle  the  ship-  ment  up  three  flights;  after  an  uglier  one,  we  did  so,  and  he  departed,  leaving  me  to  open  it.  I  was  ablaze  with  fever  and  salivating  freelyas  I  hacked  through  the  excelsior  wrappings,  but  I  cooled  off  fast  enough.  Inside  was  a  stiff  and  dismal  board-room  chair,  welt-  ed  with  tacks,  that  belonged  in  a  third-  rate  loan  shark's  office.  The  sticker  on  the  reverse,  however,  implied  otherwise.  It  read,  &quot;Property  of  [REDACTED]  State  Dept.&quot;  To  adduce  proof  that  the  husky,  straw-hatted  young  man  in  gabardine  who  tailed  me  the  whole  next  month  was  an  F.B.I.  operative  is  impossible,  nor  can  I  swear  that  my  mail  was  fluoroscoped  during  that  period.  I  do  know  that  for  a  while  I  underwent  all  the  tremors  of  a  Graham  Greene  char-  acter  on  the  run,  even  if  it  hadno  purif-  icatory  effect  on  my  religious  views.  When  my  funk  abated  sufficiently  to  donate  the  chair  to  a  charity  bazaar,  I  arrived  at  a  decision.  'The  only  way  I  could  possibly  attain  my  ideal  was  to  have  it  custom  made,  and  to  that  end  I  " b"embarked  on  a  secret  layaway  plan  at  the  Coiners'  and  Purloiners'  National.  Early  last  summer,  I  took  the  accrual  to  a  wholesaler  friend  in  the  Furniture  Design  Center,  along  with  a  steel  en-  graving  that  embodied  every  curlicue  I  lusted  for.  He  examined  it  tolerantly.  &quot;It's  your  money,  Sidney,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  if  I  were  you,  I'd  look  around  the  auction  rooms-&quot;  I  flung  my  hat  on  his  showroom  floor  and  stamped  on  it  like  Edgar  Kennedy.  &quot;Stop!&quot;  I  screamed.  &quot;Duplicate  that  chair  and  keep  your  goddam  advice  to  yourself!  If  I  need  advice,  I'll  go  to  a  shrinker!&quot;  &quot;You're  overdue  [REDACTED];  he  observed,  picking  up  a  hassock  to  ward  me  off.  &quot;Okey-doke.  It'll  take  six  weeks.  And  don't  call  for  it,&quot;  he  added  quickly.  &quot;We'll  deliver.&quot;  The  result  was  not  a  masterpiece,  as  one  applies  the  term  to  a  floral  group  by  Odilon  Redon  or  the  Khmer  sculp-  tures  in  the  Mus\xc3\xa9e  Guimet,  but  it  ran  a  close  second.  It  was  a  paragon  of  cozy  chairs,  a  marvel  of  the  most  intricate  tufting,  a  monument  to  the  upholster-  er's  art.  You  sank  into  its  refulgent  black  bosom  and  were  instantly  perme-  ated  with  douceur  de  vivre  such  as  you  had  never  known.  Apothegms  worthy  of  La  Rochefoucauld  tumbled  from  your  lips,  full-fashioned  epigrams  plead-  ing  to  be  encased  in  boxes  in  McCall's  and  Reader's  Digest.  True,  it  was  a  Giving  no  sign,  Making  no  outcry,  no  matter  difficult  chair  to  slumber  in;  at  the  be-  ginning,  its  magnificence  overawed  me  and  I  sat  gingerly  in  it,  holding  at  eye  level  a  copy  of  Sir  Samuel  Baker's  &quot;The  Albert  Nyanza&quot;  in  crushed  levant.  I  then  tried  browsing  through  the  latest  English  review,  but  somehow  couldn't  get  past  the  adverts  for  Ovomalt  and  thermal  underwear.  At  last,  I  found  the  key  in  Max  Lerner's  windy  periods,  and,  lapped  in  his  peristaltic  rhetoric,  slept  like  a  baby.  Once  inside  that  chair,  Lerner  in  hand,  I  was  as  remote  from  hypertension  as  from  the  Asiatic  capi-  tals  where  he  bombinated.  When  Buddha  smiles  and  all  is  cot-  ton  candy,  though,  it  is  axiomatic  that  one  edges  toward  the  nearest  cyclone  cellar.  Following  a  blissful  week,  my  wife  and  I  motored  off  to  Willimantic  to  pick  up  a  few  spools  of  vintage  thread.  En  route,  she  informed  me  that  in  our  absence  a  new  domestic  had  been  in-  structed  to  give  the  flat  a  thorough  cleaning.  The  place  fairly  gleamed  when  we  tottered  in  the  door;  the  rugs  had  been  shampooved,  the  silver  was  burnished  to  diamond  brilliance,  and  the  furniture  sparkled  with  a  million  highlights.  As  I  stood  openmouthed,  like  one  of  the  carp  at  Fontainebleau,  my  wife  issued  from  the  kitchen,  brandishing  a  note  and  a  clotted  paintbrush.  &quot;A  treasure!  A  dreamboat!&quot;  she  chortled.  &quot;Guess  what  that  girl  did!  She  shellacked  all  the  tables,  even  the  breadboard  and  the  stepladder!  She  worked  two  whole  nights&quot;  &quot;W-why  is  that  sheet  draped  over  my  comfy  chair?&quot;  I  quavered.  'To  protect  it,  stupid,&quot;  she  said  im-  patiently.  &quot;I'm  going  to  double  her  salary  tomorrow,  sign  her  to  a  lifetime  contract-&quot;  I  leaped  pasther,  whisked  away  the  sheet,  and  was  presented  with  a  specta-  cle  beyond  description,  beyond  con-  templation.  The  leather  was  piebald,  marbleized  with  a  scaly  armor  plate  of  orange-and-gray  shellac  bonded  onto  its  surface  for  eternity.  Never,  even  among  the  tortured  vinyl-and-zebra  abominations  in  the  lowest  borax  show-  room  on  East  Eighth  Street,  had  I  beheld  anything  so  loathsome.  With  a  great  cry,  I  sank  to  my  knees,  and,  nuzzling  one  bulbous  armrest,  burst  into  racking  sobs.  Half  anhour  after-  ward,  I  slung  a  five-gallon  can  of  kerosene  into  the  rear  of  our  wagon,  unmindful  that  it  splattered  the  aspira-  tion  ofa  lifetime.  'Then  I  slammed  up  the  tailgate  and  headed  grimly  down-  town  toward  the  Holland  Tunnel. "