 b"WHEN  Dr.  Frazier  came,  Ben-  nie's  grandmother  told  him  to  run  down  to  the  spring  and  wade  in  the  stream  that  flowed  from  it  across  the  pasture  field  to  Mr.  Charley  Miller's  pond,  or  play  under  the  big  oak  tree  that  stood  between  her  field  and  Mr.  Charley  Miller's.  He  started  along  the  path,  but  when  he  was  about  midway  to  the  spring  he  stopped.  He  had  waded  in  the  stream  and  caught  minnows  all  that  morning.  He  had  played  under  the  oak  tree  all  yesterday  afternoon.  He  had  asked  his  grand-  mother  to  let  him  walk  the  mile  and  a  half  down  the  road  to  James  and  Robert  Lee  Stewart's  to  play,  but  she  had  not  let  him  go.  There  was  nothing  he  wanted  to  do  alone.  He  wanted  some-  one  to  play  with.  He  turned  and  went  back  and  crept  under  the  window  of  his  grandmother's  room.  Their  voices  floated  low  and  quiet  out  into  the  cool  shade  that  lay  over  the  house.  &quot;How  long  will  it  be?&quot;  he  heard  his  grandmother  say.  &quot;Before  the  end  of  summer.&quot;  &quot;Are  you  sure?&quot;  &quot;'Yes.  You  should  have  sent  for  me  long  ago.&quot;  &quot;I've  passed  my  threescore  and  ten  years.  I'm  eighty-four.&quot;  What  did  they  mean?  Perhaps  he  ought  not  to  be  listening.  &quot;How  will  it  come?  Tell  me,  Doc-  tor.  I  can  stand  it.&quot;  &quot;There  will  be  sharp,  quick  pains  like  the  ones  you've  been  having.  Your  heart  can-  not  stand  many  more  attacks.  It  grows  weaker  with  each  one,  even  though  you're  able  to  go  about  your  work  as  you  did  before  the  attack  came.  I'm  going  to  leave  you  a  prescription  for  some  pills  that  will  kill  the  pain  almost  instantly.  But  that's  about  all  they  will  do.  When  an  attack  comes,  take  two  with  a  glass  of  water.  They'll  make  you  drop  off  to  sleep.  One  time  you  won't  wake  up.&quot;  Now  Bennie  understood.  But  he  could  not  turn  and  run  away.  There  was  a  brief  silence.  Then  his  grandmother  said,  &quot;Don't  tell  Birdie  nor  anybody  else.&quot;  &quot;But  you  can't  stay  here  alone  with  the  child  all  day  long.  Why,  he's  only  ten  years  old.&quot;  &quot;I  know....  Doctor,  there  ain't  anyone  to  come  stay  with  me.  Birdie  must  go  to  the  Fieldses'  to  work.  You     know  it's  just  Birdie,  the  boy,  and  me.  I  got  no  close  kin.  My  husband,  my  three  sons,  and  my  other  daughter's  been  dead  for  years  now.  You  see,  I  know  death,  Doctor,.  I  know  it  well.  I'm  just  not  use  to  it.&quot;  &quot;No  one  is,&quot;  Dr.  Frazier  said.  &quot;Here's  what  I  want  to  do.  I'll  go  on  just  like  before.  There  ain't  nothin'  else  for  me  to  do.  When  an  attack  comes,  I'll  take  the  two  pills  and  I'll  send  Bennie  runnin'  down  the  road  for  May  Mathis.  She'll  come.  May  will  come.  I  know  nobody  I'd  rather  have  set  beside  me  than  May.  I  knowed  her  all  my  life.  Me  and  her  done  talked  about  this  thing  many  times.  It's  July  now.  July  the  seventh.  Then  August-  then  September.  But  here  I  go  runnin'  on  and  on.  Let  me  get  your  money.  You've  got  to  be  paid.  You've  got  to  live.&quot;  &quot;Please,&quot;  Dr.  Frazier  said.  &quot;No  harm  meant.&quot;  In  a  moment,  Bennie  heard  them  walking  out  onto  the  porch  through  the  door  of  her  room.  Then  he  could  see  them  as  they  crossed  the  yard  to  the  gate,  where  Dr.  Frazier's  horse  and  buggy  stood.  He  was  a  little  man,  with  a  skin  that  was  almost  black.  He  climbed  into  his  buggy  and  started  up  the  road  toward  the  town,  which  was  threemiles  away,  and  she  stood  and  looked  after  him.  Her  back  was  to  the  house.  People  said  that  Bennie's  grandmother  had  Indian  blood  in  her  veins,  for  she  had  high  cheekbones  and  her  nose  was  long  and  straight,  but  her  mouth  was  big.  Her  eyes  seemed  as  though  they  were  buried  way  back  in  her  head,  in  a  mass  of  wrinkles.  They  danced  and  twinkled  whenever  they  looked  at  him.  She  was  a  big  woman,  and  she  wore  long  full  skirts  that  came  all  the  way  to  the  ground.  She  closed  the  gate  and  started  back  to  the  house,  and  it  came  to  Bennie  that  he  was  alone  with  her,  and  that  she  was  going  to  die  soon,  He  turned  and  ran  noiselessly  across  the  back  yard,  through  the  back  gate,  and  down  the  path  to  the  spring.  When  he  reached  the  spring,  he  kept  running.  He  ran  across  the  pasture  field  and  up  the  hill  to  the  barbed-wire  fence  that  divided  his  grandmother's  land  from  Mr.  Charley  Miller's.  He  threw  himself  to  the  ground  and  rolled  under  the  fence,  picked  himself  up  on  the  oth- " b"er  side,  and  ran  through  Mr.  Charley  Miller's  field  of  alfalfa  and  into  the  woods,  until  at  last  he  fell  exhausted  in  the  cool  damp  grass  of  a  shaded  clearing.  His  grandmother  was  going  to  die.  She  might  even  be  dead  now.  She  was  going  to  lie  cold  and  still,  in  a  long  black  casket  that  would  be  put  into  a  hearse  that  would  take  her  to  church  in  town.  The  Reverend  Jones  would  preach  her  funeral.  People  would  cry,  because  people  liked  his  grandmother.  His  mother  would  cry.  He  would  ery.  And  now  he  was  crying,  and  he  could  not  stop  crying.  But  at  last  he  did,  and  he  sat  up  and  took  from  his  pocket  the  clean  white  rag  that  his  grandmother  had  given  him  to  use  as  a  handkerchief  and  dried  his  eyes.  He  must  get  up  and  go  back  to  the  house.  He  would  have  to  be  alone  with  his  grandmother  until  his  mother  came  home  from  the  Fieldses'  after  she  had  cooked  their  supper.  And  he  must  tell  no  one  what  he  had  heard  Dr.  Frazier  say  to  his  grandmother.  He  found  her  sitting  in  her  big  rock-  ing  chair,  her  hands  clasped  in  her  lap.  &quot;You  been  gone  a  long  time,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  water  bucket's  empty.  Take  it  and  go  fill  it  at  the  spring.  Time  for  me  to  be  gettin'  up  from  here  and  cookin'  supper.&quot;  When  he  got  back  from  the  spring,  he  found  her  laying  a  fire  in  the  kitchen  stove.  It  was  nearly  dark  when  he  saw  his  mother  coming,  and  he  ran  to  meet  her.  She  looked  at  him  closely  and  said,  &quot;Bennie,  why  on  earth  did  you  run  so  fast?&quot;  He  could  only  say  breathlessly,  &quot;I  don't  know.&quot;  He  added  quickly,  &quot;What  did  you  bring  me?&quot;  Sometimes  she  brought  him  a  piece  of  cake  or  pie,  or  the  leg  of  a  chicken  from  the  Fieldses'.  Today  she  did  not  have  anything.  It  was  a  long  time  before  he  went  to  sleep  that  night.  The  next  day,  he  stayed  outdoors  and  only  went  into  the  house  when  his  grandmother  called  him  to  do  some-  thing  for  her.  She  did  not  notice.  On  Sunday,  his  mother  did  not  go  to  the  Fieldses'.  In  the  morning,  they  went  to  church.  That  afternoon,  Mr.  Joe  Bailey  drove  up  to  the  house  in  his  horse  and  buggy  to  take  Bennie's  mother  for  a  buggy  ride.  She  had  put  on  her  pretty  blue-flowered  dress  and  her  big  wide-  brimmed  black  straw  hat  with  the  red  roses  around  its  crown  and  the  black  ribbon  that  fell  over  the  brim  and  down  :|  her  back.  She  looked  very  pretty  and  if  as  pleased  as  she  could  be.  Bennie  ,|  wanted  to  go  riding  with  them,  Once, " b"he  had  asked  Mr.  Joe  if  he  could  go  along,  and  Mr.  Joe  had  grinned  and  saidyes,  but  Bennie's  mother  had  not  been  pleased  at  all,  for  some  reason.  This  Sunday,  after  they  had  gone,  his  grandmother  let  him  walk  the  mile  and  a  half  down  the  road  to  play  with  James  and  Robert  Lee  Stewart.  He  knew  that  his  grandmother  was  preparing  to  die.  He  came  upon  her  kneeling  in  prayer  beside  her  bed  with  its  high  headboard  that  almost  touched  the  ceiling.  As  she  sat  in  her  rocking  chair,  she  said  the  Twenty-third  Psalm.  He  knew  only  the  first  verse:  &quot;The  Lord  is  my  shepherd;  I  shall  not  want.&quot;  Now  he  felt  toward  his  grandmother  the  way  he  felt  toward  certain  people,  only  more  so.  There  was  a  feeling  that  made  people  seem  strange-a  feeling  that  came  from  them  to  you-that  made  you  stand  away  from  them.  There  was  Miss  Sally  Cannon,  his  teacher.  You  did  not  go  close  to  Miss  Sally.  She  made  you  sit  still  and  always  keep  your  read-  er  or  your  spelling  book  open  on  your  desk,  or  do  your  arithmetic  problems.  If  she  caught  you  whispering  or  talking,  she  called  you  up  to  the  front  of  the  room  and  gave  you  several  stinging  lashes  on  your  legs  or  across  your  back  with  one  of  the  long  switches  that  always  lay  across  her  desk.  You  did  not  go  close  to  Miss  Sally  unless  you  had  to.  You  did  not  go  close  to  Dr.  Frazier  or  the  Reverend  Isaiah  Jones.  Teachers,  doctors,  and  preachers  were  special  people.  You  did  not  go  close  to  white  people,  either.  Sometimes  when  he  and  his  grandmother  went  to  town,  they  would  stop  at  the  Fieldses'.  They  would  walk  up  the  long  green  yard  and  go  around  the  big  red  brick  house,  with  its  tall  white  columns,  to  the  kitchen,  where  his  mother  was;  it  always  seemed  a  nice  place  to  be,  even  on  a  hot  summer  day.  His  mother  and  his  grandmother  would  chuckle  over  something  that  Miss  Marion  Fields  or  Mr.  Ridley  Fields  had  done.  They  would  stop  smiling  the  minute  Miss  Marion  came  into  the  room,  and  they  would  become  like  peo-  ple  waiting  in  the  vestibule  of  a  church  for  the  prayer  to  be  finished  so  they  could  go  in.  He  knew  that  he  acted  the  same  way.  Miss  Marion  had  light-brown  hair  and  light-brown  eyes.  His  grandmother  said  that  she  was  like  a  sparrow,  for  she  was  a  tiny  woman.  She  always  wore  a  dress  that  was  pretty  enough  to  wear  to  church.  The  last  time  he  was  at  the  Fieldses',  Miss  Marion  came  into  the  kitchen,  After  she  had  spoken  to  his  grandmother,  she  turned  to  him.  He" b"was  sitting  in  a  chair  near  the  window,  and  he  felt  himself  stiffen  both  inside  and  outside.  She  said,  &quot;I  declare,  Birdie,  Bennie's  the  prettiest  colored  child  I  ever  did  see.  Lashes  long  as  a  girl's.  Is  he  a  good  boy,  Hannah?&quot;  &quot;He's  a  quiet  child,&quot;  his  grandmother  said.  &quot;Sometimes  I  think  he's  too  quiet,  but  he's  a  good  child-at  least  when  I  got  my  eyes  on  him.&quot;  They  all  laughed.  &quot;I'm  sure  Bennie's  good,&quot;  Miss  Marion  said.  &quot;Be  a  good  boy,  Bennie.  Eat  plenty  and  grow  strong,  and  when  you're  big  enough  to  work,  Mr.  Ridley  will  be  glad  to  give  you  work  here  on  his  place.  We're  so  glad  to  have  your  mother  here  with  us.  Now,  be  good,  won't  you?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  Ma'am,&quot;  he  answered.  &quot;Birdie,  give  him  a  piece  of  that  lemon  pie  you  baked  for  supper.  Well,  Hannah,  it's  been  nice  talking  with  you  again.  Always  stop  on  your  way  to  town.&quot;  TWO  weeks  to  the  day  after  Dr.  Frazier's  visit,  Miss  May  Mathis  came  to  see  his  grandmother.  She  was  much  shorter  than  his  grandmother-  a  plump  woman,  who  always  wore  long  black-and-white  checked  gingham  dresses  that  fell  straight  down  from  her  high  full  breasts  to  her  knees  and  then  flared  outward.  Her  chin  was  sharp,  with  folds  of  flesh  around  it.  Her  nose  was  wide  and  flat.  She  had  small,  snap-  ping  black  eyes.  Her  skin  was  like  cream  that  had  been  kept  too  long  and  into  which  hundreds  of  tiny  black  specks  had  fallen.  As  she  came  into  the  yard,  she  asked  Bennie  if  his  grandmother  was  at  home.  She  said  she  would  sit  on  the  porch,  where  it  was  cool.  He  ran  into  the  house  to  tell  his  grandmother  that  she  was  there.  His  grandmother  put  away  her  sew-  ing  and  went  out  on  the  porch.  &quot;May,  I'm  glad  you  come.  I've  been  lookin'  for  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'd  been  here  sooner,  but  my  stom-  ach's  been  givin'  me  trouble  lately.  Sometimes  I  think  my  time  ain't  long.&quot;  &quot;Hush-hush!  You'll  live  to  see  me  put  under  the  ground.&quot;  &quot;Well,  the  day  before  yesterday  I  spent  half  the  day  in  bed.  I  thought  I'd  have  to  send  John  for  you,&quot;  Miss  May  answered,  and  she  went  into  a  long  ac-  count  of  the  illness  that  troubled  her.  Bennie  got  up  from  the  edge  of  the  porch  and  ran  around  the  house.  The  two  old  women  paid  no  attention  to  his  going.  He  knew  what  his  grandmother  would  say  to  Miss  May.  She  would  tell  " b"Miss  May  how  she  wanted  to  be  dressed  for  burial,  She  would  name  the  song  she  wanted  to  be  sung  over  her.  He  had  heard  the  same  conversation  many  times.  Now  it  was  different.  What  they  were  talking  about  would  soon  &quot;come  to  pass,&quot;  as  his  grandmother  would  say.  Miss  May  did  not  know,  but  he  knew.  He  went  out  of  the  back  gate  and  down  the  path  to  the  spring.  He  waded  in  the  stream  awhile,  catching  minnows  in  his  hands  and  then  letting  them  go.  He  went  across  the  pasture  field.  He  broke  off  a  persimmon  bush  to  use  as  a  switch,  and  he  chased  his  grand-  mother's  cow  about  the  pasture  a  bit.  But  the  cow  was  old  and  soon  grew  tired  of  moving  when  he  hit  her  with  the  switch.  Then  he  went  to  the  big  oak  tree  that  stood  between  the  fields  and  sat  down.  He  stayed  there  until  he  saw  Miss  May  Mathis  going  out  of  the  front  gate.  The  July  days  went  slowly  by,  one  much  like  another.  It  grew  hotter  and  hotter.  One  day  when  he  walked  into  the  house  after  playing  a  long  time  in  the  stream  and  the  pasture  field,  he  found  his  grandmother  quietly  sleeping  in  her  big  rocking  chair.  He  saw  a  bottle  full  of  big  white  pills  on  the  dresser.  It  had  not  been  there  when  he  left  the  house.  An  empty  glass  stood  beside  the  pills.  He  felt  too  frightened  to  move.  Her  breast  was  rising  and  falling  evenly.  She  stirred  and  then  opened  her  eyes.  She  seemed  dazed  and  not  tosee  him  for  a  moment.  Then  her  lips  curved  into  a  queer  smile,  and  a  twinkle  came  into  her  eyes.  &quot;Must  have  dropped  off  to  sleep  like  a  baby,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Run  outdoors  and  play.  I'll  set  here  awhile,  and  then  I'll  get  upand  start  supper.&quot;  Later  on,  she  called  him  and  asked  if  he  could  make  out  with  milk  and  cold  food  from  dinner.  She  left  the  milking  for  his  mother  to  do  when  she  came  home  from  the  Fieldses'.  But  the  next  morning  his  grandmother  was  all  right,  and  he  thought  that  she  was  not  going  to  die  that  summer,  after  all.  One  morning,  a  little  after  his  mother  had  gone  to  the  Fieldses',  Mr.  John  Mathis  drove  up.  He  turned  his  horse  and  buggy  around  to  face  the  way  he  had  come.  Then  he  walked  up  the  path  to  thehouse.  He  was  a  tall,  rawboned  man  with  a  bullet-shaped  head,  and  he  looked  exactly  like  what  he  was-a  deacon  in  a  church.  &quot;What  isit,  John?&quot;  Bennie's  grand-  mother  asked.  &quot;It's  May.  She  was  sick  all  day  yes-  terday.  Last  night  I  had  to  get  the  doc-" b"tor for  her.  Jennie  Stewart's  there  now.&quot;  &quot;I'll  be  ready  to  go  in  a  minute,&quot;  his  grandmother  said.  On  the  way  to  the  Mathises',  Ben-  nie  sat  on  the  back  of  the  buggy.  His  grandmother  and  Mr.  John  said  only  a  few  words.  When  they  reached  the  house,  his  grandmother  told  him  to  keep  very  quiet  and  to  be  good,  and  she  went  inside  at  once.  There  were  people  on  the  porch,  and  people  continued  to  come  and  go.  It  was  midafternoon,  and  still  his  grandmother  had  not  come  from  within  the  house.  A  Ford  car  drove  up  to  the  gate.  In  it  were  Philo-  mena  Jones  and  her  mother.  Philomena  was  a  year  younger  than  Bennie.  She  had  a  sharp  little  yellow  face,  big  black  eyes  that  went  everywhere,  and  she  wore  her  hair  in  two  long  plaits.  &quot;Come  on,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  let's  play  something.&quot;  When  they  were  out  of  hearing  of  the  grown-up  people,  she  said,  &quot;Miss  May  going  to  die.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  know?&quot;  &quot;I  heard  my  mama  sayshe  was.  She's  old.  When  you're  old  you  have  to  die.&quot;  Next,  Philomena  said,  &quot;'Your  mama's  tryin'  to  catch  Mr.  Joe  Bailey  for  a  hus-  band.  Mama  said  it's  time  she's  getting  another  husband  if  she's  ever  going  to  get  one.&quot;  'You  stop  talkin'!&quot;  Bennie  told  her.  &quot;She  said  your  pa's  been  dead  nine  years  now  and  if  your  mama  don't  hurry  and  take  Mr.  Joe  Bailey-that  is,  if  she  can  get  him-she  may  never  get  a  chance  to  marry  again.&quot;  &quot;If  you  don't  stop  talkin',  I'll  hit  you!&quot;  &quot;No,  you  won't.  I'm  not  scared  of  you,  even  if  you  are  a  boy,  and  I'll  say  what  I  want  to.  Mama  said,  'Birdie  Wilson's  in  her  forties,  if  sheaday,  and  if  a  woman  lets  herself  get  into  her  for-  ties  without  marryin',  her  chance  are  mighty  slim  after  that.'  I'm  goin'  to  marry  when  I'm  twenty.&quot;  &quot;Nobody'd  want  you.  You  talk  too  much.&quot;  &quot;I  don't,  neither.&quot;  &quot;I  won't  play  with  you.  I'm  goin'  back  to  the  porch,&quot;  he  said.  Philomena  stayed  in  the  yard  a  little  longer.  She  carried  on  an  imaginary  conversation  with  a  person  who  seemed  as  eager  to  talk  as  she.  After  a  while,  she  ran  back  to  the  porch  and  sat  down  and  gave  her  attention  to  what  the  grown-up  people  were  saying,  now  and  then  putting  in  a  word  herself.  Then  his  grandmother  came  out  from  thehouse.  People  stopped  talking  at  the  sight  of  her  face.  &quot;May's  gone,&quot;  she  said.  The  people  on  the  porch  bowed  their" b"heads,  and  their  faces  became  as  though  they  were  already  at  Miss  May  Math-  is's  funeral.  His  grandmother  looked  very  tired.  After  a  moment,  she  said,  &quot;The  Lord  giveth  and  the  Lord  taketh.  Blessed  be  the  name  ofthe  Lord.&quot;  There  was  a  silence.  Then  she  spoke  again.  &quot;I  thought  May  would  do  for  me  what  I  have  to  do  for  her  now.&quot;  She  turned  and  went  back  into  the  house.  Some  of  the  women  rose  and  followed  her.  The  people  who  remained  on  the  porch  spoke  in  low  voices.  Someone  wondered  when  the  funeral  would  be.  Someone  wondered  if  Miss  May's  sister  Ethel,  who  lived  in  St.  Louis,  would  come.  Someone  hoped  that  it  would  not  rain  the  day  of  the  funeral.  Then  Mr.  John  Mathis  and  Bennie's  grandmother  came  out  on  the  porch.  Mr.  John  said,  &quot;Hannah,  you  done  all  you  could  do.  May  couldn't  have  had  a  better  friend.  You're  tired  now.  I'll  send  you  home.&quot;  At  home,  his  grandmother  seemed  not  to  notice  him.  Her  eyes  seemed  to  be  taking  a  great  sad  rest.  She  sent  him  to  the  spring  to  get  water  to  cook  supper.  As  he  walked  down  the  path,  he  thought  about  his  grandmother.  He  felt  more  sorry  for  her  than  he  felt  fear  of  her.  Miss  May  Mathis  was  dead;  he  could  not  run  and  get  her  now.  On  Sunday  afternoon  at  two  o'clock  at  the  Baptist  Church,  Miss  May  Math-  is's  funeral  service  was  held.  There  was  a  procession  of  buggies,  surreys,  and  even  a  few  automobiles  from  the  house  to  the  church.  Mr.  Joe  Bailey  came  and  took  Bennie's  mother,  his  grandmother,  andhim  to  church.  The  funeral  was  a  long  one.  He  sat  beside  his  grandmother  and  listened  to  the  prayers,  the  songs,  and  the  sermon,  all  the  time  dreading  the  moment  when  the  flowers  would  be  taken  from  the  gray  casket,  the  casket  would  be  opened,  and  the  people  would  file  by  to  see  the  body  for  the  last  time.  The  Reverend  Isaiah  Jones  described  Heaven  as  a  land  flowing  with  milk  and  honey,  a  place  where  people  ate  fruit  from  the  tree  of  life,  wore  golden  slip-  pers,  long  white  robes,  and  starry  crowns,  and  rested  forever.  The  Rev-  crend  Isaiah  Jones  was  certain  that " b"Miss  May  Mathis  was  there,  resting  in  the  arms  of  Jesus,  done  with  the  sins  };  and  sorrows  of  this  world.  Bennie  won-  dered  why  Mr.  John  covered  his  face  with  his  hands,  and  why  Miss  May's  sister  Ethel,  who  had  come  all  the  way  from  St.  Louis,  cried  out,  and  why  peo-  ple  cried,  if  Miss  May  was  so  happy  in  this  land.  It  seemed  that  they  should  be  glad  for  her,  so  glad  they  would  not  cry.  Or  did  they  cry  because  they  were  glad?  He  could  not  understand.  The  Reverend  Jones  said  that  they  would  see  Miss  May  on  the  Resurrection  morning.  Bennie  could  not  understand  this,  either.  At  last  the  gray  casket  was  opened,  and  people  began  to  file  by  it.  And  at  last  he  was  close.  His  mother  went  by,  and  then  Mr.  Joe.  Now  his  grand-  mother.  'The  line  of  people  stopped,  waiting  expectantly.  His  grandmother  stood  and  looked  down  on  Miss  May  for  a  long  time.  She  did  not  cry  out.  She  simply  stood  there  and  looked  down,  and  finally  she  moved  on.  Now  he  was  next.  Miss  May  Mathis  looked  as  though  she  had  simply  combed  her  hair  and  piled  it  on  top  of  her  head,  put  on  her  best  black  silk  dress,  pinned  her  big  old  pearl  brooch  to  its  lace  collar,  picked  up  a  white  handkerchief  with  one  hand,  and  then  decided  that  instead  of  go-  ing  to  church  she  would  sleep  a  little  while.  As  he  looked  down  on  her,  he  was  not  as  afraid  as  he'd  thought  he  would  be.  Outside  the  church,  as  the  procession  was  forming  to  go  to  the  graveyard,  Dr.  Frazier  came  up  to  his  grandmoth-  er  and  asked  how  she  was.  &quot;As  well  as  could  be  expected,  Doc-  tor,&quot;  his  grandmother  said.  And  then,  in  a  low  voice,  &quot;I've  had  only  one.&quot;  &quot;You  got  through  it  all  right.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(YCS,,,  &quot;And  this?&quot;  &quot;I've  managed  to  get  through  it.&quot;  &quot;You  will  be  careful.&quot;  &quot;Yes.&quot;  (KNOW?  \xc2\xbb)  &quot;He'll  have  to  go  to  the  Stewarts'.  They  did  not  know  that  he  under-  stood  what  they  were  talking  about,  even  if  none  of  the  other  people  around  them  did.  He  heard  two  women  whis-  pering.  One  said  to  the  other,  &quot;It's  wonderful  the  way  Aunt  Hannah  took  it.&quot;  He  felt  very  proud  of  his  grand-  mother.  )  &gt;&gt;  OW  his  grandmother's  footsteps  were  slower  as  she  moved  about  the  house  and  yard.  He  kept  the  garden  and  the  flower  beds  along  the  yard  fences  weeded,  the  stove  box  full  of " b"wood,  the  water  bucket  full  all  the  time,  without  her  having  to  ask  him  to  do  these  things  for  her.  He  overheard  her  say  to  his  mother,  &quot;Child  does  every-  thing  without  being  told.  It  ain't  natu-  ral.&quot;  &quot;Reckon  he's  not  well?&quot;  his  mother  asked  anxiously,  &quot;Don't  think  so.  He  eats  well.  May-  be  the  trouble  is  the  child  don't  have  nobody  to  play  with  every  day.  He'll  be  all  right  when  fall  comes  and  school  starts.&quot;  August  came,  and  it  grew  hotter.  The  sun  climbed  up  the  sky  in  the  morning  and  down  the  sky  in  the  eve-  ning  like  a  tired  old  man  with  a  great  load  on  his  backgoing  up  and  down  a  hill.  Then  one  hot  mid-August  day  dawned  far  hotter  and  sultrier  than  the  one  just  past.  It  grew  still  hotter  dur-  ing  the  early  part  of  the  morning,  but  by  midday  there  was  a  change,  for  there  was  a  breeze,  and  in  the  west  a  few  dark  clouds  gathered  in  the  sky.  His  grand-  mother  said,  &quot;I  believe  the  rain  will  come  at  last.&quot;  About  three  o'clock,  the  wind  rose  suddenly.  It  bent  the  topofthe  big  oak  tree  that  stood  in  the  yard.  There  werelow  rumbles  of  thunder.  &quot;Bennie,  Bennie,  come!  Let's  get  the  chickens  up!&quot;  his  grandmother  called  to  him.  By  the  time  all  the  chickens  were  (399an  \xef\xac\x81enday)  Oct.  t?  safe  in  the  henhouse  and  chicken  coops,  it  was  time  to  go  into  the  house  and  put  the  windows  down.  The  wind  lifted  thecurtains  almost  to  the  ceiling.  They  got  the  windows  down.  His  grand-  i  mother  went  into  the  kitchen.  He  went  out  on  the  porch.  He  wanted  to  watch  the  clouds,  for  he  had  never  seen  any  |}  bigger  or  blacker  or  quite  so  low  to  the   earth-he  was  sure  they  must  be  touch-  &amp;  @apeng  ing  the  ground  somewhere.  He  wanted  to  see  what  the  wind  did  to  the  trees,  &amp;  -  the  corn,  and  the  grass.  At  last  the  rain  fell,  first  in  great  drops  that  were  blown  onto  the  edge  of  the  porchby  the  wind  and  felt  cool  and  good  as  they  touched  his  face.  They  ||  made  him  want  to  run  out  into  the  yard.  Then  the  rain  came  so  quickly  and  so  ||  heavily,  and  with  it  so  much  wind,  that  it  came  up  on  the  porch  and  almost  pushed  him  back  into  the  house.  The  [{  ess:  thunder  roared  and  there  were  flashes  {}{&amp;  of  lightning.  &quot;Bennie,  Bennie,  where  are  you?&quot;  |y  his  grandmother  called,  and  when  he  %  went  inside  she  said,  &quot;Set  down-set  &amp;_  down  in  the  big  chair  there  or  come  into  my  room  if  you  want  to.  I'm  goin'  yooh  tojust  set  in  my  rocker.&quot;  &quot;Ill  stay  here,&quot;  he  said,  and  he  went " b"to  the  big  chair  near  the  fireplace  and  sat  down.  &quot;There-there-just  set  there.  I'll  leave  the  door  open.&quot;  He  tried  to  keep  from  thinking  what  might  happen  if  his  grandmother  had  one  of  her  spells,  but  he  could  not.  He  went  to  the  fireplace.  The  back  of  the  fireplace  was  wet;  water  stood  on  it  in  drops  that  looked  like  tears  on  a  face.  He  stood  and  looked  at  it  awhile,  then  he  sat  down  in  thebig  chair.  There  was  nothing  else  to  do  but  to  sit  there.  He  heard  her  cry  out.  The  cry  was  sharp  and  quick.  Then  it  was  cut  off.  She  called  him.  &quot;Bennie!  Bennie!&quot;  Her  voice  was  thick.  He  couldnot  move.  &quot;Bennie!&quot;  He  went  into  the  room  where  she  was.  She  sat  on  the  side  of  her  bed.  She  was  breathing  hard,  and  in  one  hand  she  had  the  bottle  of  white  pills.  &quot;Get  ||  -  me  a  glass  of  water.  One  of  my  spells  |  !  done  come  over  me.&quot;  He  went  into  the  kitchen  and  got  a  glass  from  the  kitchen  safe  and  filled  it  with  water  from  the  bucket  that  sat  on  the  side  table.  Then  he  went  back  to  her  and  gave  her  the  water.  She  took  it  and  put  two  pills  in  her  mouth  and  gulped  them  down  with  the  water.  She  was  breathing  hard.  &quot;Pull  off  my  shoes,&quot;  she  said.  As  he  was  unlacing  the  high-top  shoes  she  always  wore,  she  gave  a  little  cry.  He  felt  her  body  tremble.  &quot;Just  a  bit  of  pain.  Don't  worry.  I'm  all  right,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  gone,&quot;  she  added  a  moment  later.  When  hegot  her  shoes  off,  he  lifted  her  legs  onto  the  bed,  and  she  lay  back  and  closed  her  eyes.  &quot;Go  into  the  front  room,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  close  the  door  be-  hind  you  and  stay  there  until  the  storm  is  past.  I'm  goin'  to  drop  off  to  sleep-  and  if  I'm  still  asleep  when  the  storm  is  over,  just  let  me  sleep  until  your  mama  comes.  Don't  come  in  here.  Don't  try  to  wake  me.  'T  won't  do  me  no  harm  to  take  me  a  long  good  sleep.&quot;  He  could  not  move.  He  could  only  standthere  and  stare  at  her.  &quot;Hear  me?  Go  on,  I  tell  you.  Go  on-don't,  I'll  get  up  from  here  and  skin  you  alive.&quot;  He  crept  from  the  room,  closing  the  door  after  him.  He  went  to  the  big  chair  and  sat  down.  He  must  not  cry.  Crying  could  not  help  him.  There  was  nothing  to  do  but  to  sit  there  until  the  storm  was  past.  The  rain  and  the  wind  came  steadily  now.  He  sat  back  in  the  big  chair.  He  wondered  about  his  mother.  Was  she " b"safe at  the  Fieldses'?  He  wondered  if  the  water  had  flowed  into  the  henhouse  and  under  the  chicken  coops,  where  the  little  chickens  were.  If  it  had,  some  of  the  little  chickens  might  get  drowned.  The  storm  lasted  so  long  that  it  began  to  seem  to  him  that  it  had  always  been  there.  At  last  he  became  aware  that  the  room  was  growing  lighter  and  the  rain  was  not  so  hard.  'The  thunder  and  light-  ning  were  gone.  Then,  almost  as  sud-  denly  as  it  had  begun,  the  storm  was  over.  He  got  up  and  went  out  on  the  porch.  Everything  was  clean.  Every-  thing  looked  new.  There  were  little  pools  of  water  everywhere,  and  it  was  cool.  There  were  a  few  clouds  in  the  sky,  but  they  were  white  and  light  gray.  He  looked  across  the  field  toward  Mr.  Charley  Miller's,  and  he  opened  his  eyes  wide  when  he  saw  that  the  storm  had  blown  down  the  big  oak  tree.  He  started  to  run  back  into  the  house  to  tell  his  grandmother  that  the  storm  had  blown  the  tree  down,  and  then  he  stopped.  After  a  minute,  he  stepped  down  from  the  porch.  The  wet  grass  felt  good  on  his  bare  feet.  He  felt  his  grandmother  in  the  door-  way  even  before  he  heard  her  call.  He  turned  and  looked  at  her.  She  had  put  on  her  shoes  and  the  long  apron  she  al-  ways  wore.  She  came  out  on  the  porch,  and  he  decided  that  she  looked  as  though  her  sleep  had  done  her  good.  He  remembered  the  tree,  and  he  cried,  &quot;Look-look,  Grannie!  The  storm  blowed  down  the  tree  between  your  field  and  Mr.  Charley  Miller's.&quot;  'That  tree  was  there  when  me  and  your  grandpa  came  here  years  and  years  ago,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  Lord  saw  fit  to  let  it  be  blowed  down  in  this  storm.  I-  I-&quot;  She  broke  off  and  went  back  into  the  house.  He  ran  into  the  house  and  saidto  her,  &quot;I'm  goin'  down  to  the  spring.I  bet  the  stream's  deep  as  a  creek.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  get  drowned  like  old  Pharaoh's  army,&quot;  she  said.  HE  storm  drove  away  the  heat,  for  the  days  were  now  filled  with  cool  winds  that  came  and  rattled  the  cornstalks  and  the  leaves  on  the  oak  tree  in  the  yard.  There  were  showers.  The  nights  were  long  and  cool;  the  wind  came  into  the  rooms,  gently  push-  ing  aside  the  neat  white  curtains  to  do  so.  One  morning  when  he  went  into  the  kitchen  to  get  hot  water  and  soap  to  take  to  the  back  porch  to  wash  his  face  and  hands,  he  found  his  mother  and  grandmother  busy  talking.  They " b"stopped  the  moment  they  saw  him.  His  mother's  face  seemed  flushed  and  un-  comfortable,  but  her  eyes  were  very  bright.  &quot;Done  forgot  how  to  say  good  morn-  in'  to  a  body?&quot;  his  grandmother  said.  &quot;Good  mornin',  Grannie.  Good  mornin',  Mama.&quot;  &quot;'That's  more  like  it.&quot;  &quot;Good  mornin',  Bennie,&quot;  his  mother  said.  She  looked  at  him,  and  he  had  a  feeling  that  she  was  going  to  come  to  him  and  take  him  in  her  arms  the  way  she  used  to  do  when  he  was  a  little  boy.  But  she  did  not.  His  grandmother  laughed.  &quot;Well,  son,  Mr.  Joe  Bailey  went  and  popped  the  question  to  your  mama  last  night.&quot;  His  mother  blushed.  He  did  not  know  what  to  say  to  either  of  them.  He  just  stood  and  looked  at  them.  &quot;What  you  goin'  to  say  to  that?&quot;  his  mother  said.  All  he  could  think  to  say  was  &quot;It's  all  right.&quot;  His  grandmother  laughed  again,  and  his  mother  smiled  at  him  the  way  she  did  when  he  ran  down  the  road  to  meet  her  and  askedher  to  let  him  carry  the  packages  that  she  had.  &quot;When  will  they  be  married?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Soon,&quot;  his  mother  said.  &quot;Where  will  they  live-here?'  &quot;That  ain't  been  settled  [REDACTED];  his  grandmother  said.  &quot;Nothin'  been  set-  tled.  They  just  got  engaged  last  night  while  they  were  settin'in  the  front  &gt;  room  and  you  was  sleepin'  in  your  bed.  Things  can  be  settled  later.&quot;  She  gave  a  sigh  that  his  mother  did  not  hear.  But  he  heard  it.  He  poured  water  from  the  teakettle  into  the  wash  pan  and  took  the  pan  out  on  the  back  porch  and  washed  and  dried  his  hands.  He  looked  across  the  fields  and  hills.  The  sun  had  not  come  up  yet,  but  the  morning  lay  clear  and  soft  and  quiet  as  far  as  his  eyes  could  see.  His  mother  was  going  to  marry  Mr.  Joe  Bailey.  He  did  mind  a  little.  He  knew  that  was  what  she  wanted.  He  liked  Mr.  Joe.  When  Mr.  Joe  smiled  at  him,  he  always  had  to  smile  back  at  him;  something  seemed  to  make  him  do  so.  After  his  mother  had  gone  to  the  Fieldses',  he  and  his  grandmother  sat  down  to  breakfast  at  the  table  in  the  kitchen.  His  grandmother  never  ate  a  meal  without  saying  grace.  Usually  she  gave  thanks  just  for  the  food  that  they  were  about  to  eat.  This  morning  she  asked  the  Lord  to  bless  his  mama,  Mr.  Joe,  and  him,  and  she  thanked  the  Lord  for  answering  all  her  prayers.  As  they  ate,  she  talked  to  him.  She" b"spoke  as  though  she  were  talking  to  her-  ||  self,  expecting  no  answer  from  him,  but  he  knew  that  she  meant  for  him  to  lis-  ten  to  her  words,  and  he  knew  why  she  was  talking  to  him.  &quot;Joe  Bailey  will  make  your  mama  a  good  husband  and  you  a  good  father  to  take  the  place  of  your  father  who  you  never  knew.  'The  Lord  took  your  father  when  your  fa-  ther  was  still  young,  but  that  was  the  Lord's  will.  Joe  Bailey  will  be  good  to  you,  for  he  is  a  good  man.  Mind  him.  Don't  make  trouble  between  him  and  your  mama.  Hear  me?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  Ma'am.&quot;  &quot;Don't  you  worry  about  where  you'll  stay.  You'll  be  with  your  mama.  Hear  ||  me?&quot;  K\xe2\x80\x98Yes)m.)7  She  sat  silent  for  a  moment,  and  then  she  added,  &quot;Well,  no  matter  if  your  mama  is  going  to  marry  Mr.  Joe  Bailey.  We  got  to  work  today  just  like  we  al-  ways  has.  No  matter  what  comes,  we  have  to  do  the  little  things  that  our  hands  find  to  do.  Soon  as  you  finish  eatin',  go  to  the  spring  and  get  water  and  fill  the  pot  and  the  tubs.&quot;  uousr  drew  toward  its  close,  but  the  soft  cool  days  stayed  on,  and  they  were  calm  and  peaceful.  His  grandmother  cooked  the  meals,  and  washed  and  ironed  their  own  clothes  and  those  that  his  mother  brought  home  from  the  Fieldses'  and  Mr.  Charley  Miller's.  Sometimes  Bennie  wondered  if  she  had  put  from  her  mind  the  things  that  Dr.  Frazier  had  said  to  her  that  day  he  listened  under  the  window.  Sometimes  it  seemed  to  him  that  he  had  never  crept  close  to  the  window  and  listenedto  her  and  Dr.  Frazier.  The  summer  seemed  just  like  last  summer  and  the  summer  before  that.  One  day  near  the  end  of  the  month,  Mr.  John  Mathis  stopped  by  the  house  on  his  way  to  town.  He  was  on  horse-  back,  riding  a  big  black  horse  whose  sides  glistened.  He  hailed  Bennie's  grandmother,  and  she  came  out  on  the  porch  to  pass  the  time  of  day  withhim.  &quot;Ever  see  such  a  fine  summer  day,  John?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;It's  not  a  summer  day,  Hannah.  It's  a  fall  day.  It's  going  to  be  an  early  fall  this  year.&quot;  &quot;Think  so?&quot;  his  grandmother  asked.  Her  face  changed,  but  Mr.  John  did  not  notice.  &quot;I  can  feel  it.  I  can  feel  it  in  the  air.  The  smell  of  fall  is  here  already.&quot;  Then  they  fell  to  talking  about  the  church  and  people  they  knew.  She  stood  on  the  porch  and  watched  Mr.  John  ride  up  the  road  on  his  big " b"black  horse.  Often  that  day,  she  came  out  on  the  porch  and  stood  and  looked  across  the  fields  and  hills.  When  Bennie  went  outside  for  the  first  time  the  next  morning  and  looked  around  him,  he  did  not  see  a  single  cloud  in  the  sky.  'The  quiet  that  lay  about  him  felt  like  a  nice  clean  sheet  you  pull  over  your  head  before  you  go  to  sleep  at  night  that  shuts  out  everything  to  make  a  space  both  warm  and  cool  just  for  you.  The  day  grew  warm.  A  little  after  midday,  clouds  began  to  float  acrossthe  sky,  but  for  the  most  part  it  remained  clear  and  very  blue.  He  played  in  the  yard  under  the  oak  tree,  and  then  he  went  down  to  the  spring  and  played.  In  the  afternoon,  he  rolled  his  hoopup  and  down  the  road  in  front  of  the  house.  He  grew  tired  of  this  and  went  and  sat  under  the  tree.  He  was  still  sitting  under  the  tree  when  his  grandmother  cried  out.  She  gave  a  sharp  sudden  cry,  like  the  cry  peo-  ple  make  when  they've  been  stung  by  a  beeor  a  wasp.  He  got  to  his  feet.  Then  he  heard  her  call.  &quot;Bennie!  Bennie!&quot;  He  ran  into  the  house  and  into  her  room.  She  sat  in  her  big  rocking  chair,  leaning  forward  a  little,  her  hands  clutching  the  arms  of  the  chair.  She  was  breathing  hard.  He  had  never  seen  her  eyes  as  they  were  now.  &quot;Water-  the  pills-in  the  dresser.&quot;  He  ran  into  the  kitchen  and  got  a  glass  of  water  and  ran  back  to  the  room  and  gave  it  to  her  and  then  went  to  the  dresser  and  got  the  bottle  of  pills.  He  unscrewed  the  top  and  took  out  two  of  them  and  gave  them  to  her.  She  put  the  pills  in  her  mouth  and  gulped  them  down  with  water.  Then  she  leaned  back  and  closed  her  eyes.  At  last  she  breathed  easier,  and  in  a  few  moments  she  opened  her  eyes.  &quot;Run  and  get-get  Miss-  No,  go  get  your  mama.  Hurry!  Your  grandmother  is  very  sick.&quot;  It  was  a  long  way  to  the  Fieldses'--  even  longer  than  to  the  Stewarts'!  He  stood  still  and  looked  at  her.  She  was  a  big  woman,  and  the  chair  was  a  big  chair.  Now  she  seemed  smaller-lost  in  the  chair.  &quot;Hurry-hurry,  child.&quot;  &quot;Grannie,  I'll  stay  with  you  until  you  go  to  sleep,  if  you  want  me  to,&quot;  he  heard  himself  say.  &quot;No!  No!  Hurry!&quot;  &quot;I  heard  you  and  Dr.  Frazier  talk-  ing  that  day.&quot;  &quot;Child!  Child!  You  knew  all  the  time?&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  Grannie.&quot;  &quot;When  I  drop  off  to  sleep,  I  won't " b"wake  up.  Your  grandmother  won't  wake  up  here.&quot;  &quot;I  know.&quot;  &quot;You're  not  afraid?&quot;  He  shook  his  head.  She  seemed  to  be  thinking  hard,  and  at  last  she  said,  &quot;Set  down,  child.  Set  down  beside  me.&quot;  He  pulled  up  the  straight  chair  and  sat  down  facing  her.  &quot;Seems  like  I  don't  know  what  to  say  to  you,  Bennie.  Be  a  good  boy.  Seems  like  I  can't  think  any  more.  Ev-  erything  leavin'  me-leavin'  me.&quot;  &quot;I'll  set  here  until  you  go  to  sleep,  and  then  I'll  go  and  get  mama.&quot;  &quot;'That's  a  good  boy,&quot;  she  said,  and  she  closed  her  eyes.  He  sat  still  and  quiet  until  her  breath  came  softly  and  he  knew  that  she  was  asleep.  It  was  not  long.  Then  he  got  up  and  walked  from  the  room  and  out  ofthe  house.  He  did  not  look  back,  and  he  did  not  run  until  he  was  a  good  way  down  the  road.  Then  suddenly  he  began  to  run,  and  he  ran  as  fast  as  he  could. "