 b"A  CAR  pulled  out  of  the  morning  traffic  on  a  parkway  in  a  certain  Midwestern  city  and  stopped  by  the  shore  of  a  lake.  The  driver  got  out,  carried  a  bucket  to  the  water's  edge,  emptied  its  contents  into  the  lake,  rinsed  the  bucket,  and  hastened  back  to  the  car.  Then  he  put  the  bucket  in  the  trunk  and  drove  away.  The  car  soon  merged  with  work-bound  traffic  and  vanished.  This  is  fact.  Inscrutable,  perhaps,  but  fact.  I  was  that  driver,  and  I  was  com-  pleting  thejob  of  deturtling  my  car.  Turtling  itself  seems  a  straightforward  activity,  esp.  as  an  occupation.  But  de-  turtling:  Few  know  the  misunder-  standings,  the  pitfalls,  the  anguish.  I  am  one  of  the  few.  It  began  simply  enough,  with  a  des-  ultory  Sunday  drive  through  the  coun-  try,  a  biology-teaching  cousin  at  my  side.  The  day  was  pleasant,  and,  with  my  wife  and  daughters  visiting  her  family  three  hundred  and  fifty  miles  away,  I  had  little  else  to  do.  In  the  course  of  our  meanderings  along  the  narrow  gravel  roads,  I  pulled  over  and  stopped  to  let  a  car  and  trailer  pass  by,  and  there  in  the  roadside  grass  the  biologist  spied  a  valu-  able  prize-two  lively  frogs  and  an  in-  active  turtle.  He  captured  the  three  specimens  and  put  them  in  the  trunk  of  my  car,  a  1953  Mercury.  We  con-  tinued  our  meanderings,  though  we  captured  no  more  specimens,  and  ar-  rived  home  some  two  hours  later.  The  biologist  insisted  on  prompt  removal  of  the  creatures  for  transfer  to  his  car,  then  to  his  home,  and,  finally,  to  his  school.  Without  hesitation,  I  agreed.  As  soon  as  I  opened  the  trunk,  the  frogs  came  at  us  handsomely,  relieved  to  escape  from  their  dusty  confinement.  But  the  turtle  hid.  The  turtle  hid  well.  He  hid  while  we  removed  the  spare  tire,  the  tire  jack,  an  old  raincoat,  a  portable  knitting  machine,  a  box  of  car  polish  and  rags,  a  packet  of  old  letters,  a  stadi-  um  blanket,  and  three  ice  skates.  The  turtle  still  hid  when  there  were  no  hid-  ing  places  left.  We  examined  the  trunk,  inside  and  out,  for  possible  escape  routes,  but  we  could  find  none.  I  got  the  flash-  light  from  the  glove  compartment,  and  we  looked  again,  There  was  nothing.  I  accused  the  biologist  of  not  putting  the  turtle  in  at  all.  Then  we  heard  scratching.  It  was  muffled,  coming  from  deep  within  the  car  body.  Scratch,  scratch,  scratch,  and" b"a  heavy  thump.  A  few  seconds,  and  the  scratching  resumed-the  same  pattern,  ending  with  the  same  thump.  The  sound  was  that  of  a  confused  but  undaunted  turtle  trying  to  climb  out  of  a  fender  well.  During  the  trip,  he  had  apparently  clambered  over  the  raincoat,  the  spare  tire,  the  ice  skates,  and  the  rest  until  he  found  a  small  opening  in  the  trunk  di-  rectly  over  the  housing  of  the  left  rear  wheel-an  escape  route  that  neither  the  biologist  nor  I  had  seen.  From  there,  he  had  dropped  to  the  bottom  of  the  fender  well.  Dropping  was  easy  enough,  but  climbing  back  out-  was  an  impossibility.  .  He  was  imprisoned  in  the  very  bowels  of  a  1953  Mercury,  without  food  or  water.  &quot;What  do  you  feed  turtles?&quot;  I  asked  the  biologist.  &quot;Lettuce  and  worms,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;And  lots  of  water.&quot;  Then  he  hastened  home  to  take  care  of  his  frogs  while  I  sat  down  on  the  spare  tire  beside  the  car,  wonder-  ing  what  to  do  next,  and  the  turtle  went  on  scratching.  I  gave  him  food  and  drink-scraps  of  lettuce  pushed  down  the  hole,  and  two  pints  of  water.  This  didn't  interrupt  the  scratching  for  more  than  ten  seconds.  I  sat  there  for  a  time  listening  to  him,  but  the  only  emergency  measure  I  could  think  of  was  to  wait  until  morning,  when  the  neighborhood  garage  would  be  open,  and  go  there  for  help.  Lying  awake  in  bed  that  night,  I  sincerely  hoped  the  turtle  was  comfortable.  I  was  not.  HE  next  morning,  while  I  was  shaving,  I  remembered  the  im-  prisoned  turtle.  I  dressed  and  hurried  to  the  car,  but  there  was  no  sound.  He's  escaped,  I  saidto  myself,  or  he's  dead.  In  either  case,  I  had  to  Zmow.  I  drove  to  the  garage,  a  few  blocks  away.  By  the  time  I  had  pulled  in  and  turned  off  the  ignition,  I  could  hear  him  again.  He  was  there,  all  right.  Scratch,  scratch,  scratch,  and  a  heavy  thump-the  same " b" as  before.  It  somehow  came  as  a  relief.  When  I  began  to  explain  things  to  Glenn  Shields,  who  runs  the  garage,  I  realized  for  the  first  time  what  I  was  in  for.  Even  conversation  had  become  a  challenge.  &quot;Glenn,  I  wonder  if  you  could  help  me  get  a  turtle  out  of  the  car.&quot;  &quot;Turtle?&quot;  &quot;Turtle.  He's  in  the  car.&quot;  &quot;You  a  little  squeamish  about  tur-  tles?&quot;  &quot;No,  not  particularly,  but  I  really  can't  get  this  one  out.  He's  impris-  071661.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Imprisoned.  Trunk  lid  stuck  -is  thatit?&quot;  &quot;Not  that  I  know  of.  No,  I  can  get  into  the  trunk,  all  right,  but  he's  way  inside  and  can't  be  reached.  Down  in  the  fender  well,  I  think.  You  can  hear  him,&quot;  &quot;Fender  well!  You'd  better  get  him  out.  Don't  want  him  kicking  off  in  there  and  smelling  the-&quot;  &quot;Right.  But  I  can't  get  to  him,  I  thought  maybe  you  could  get  in  there  someway  before-&quot;  &quot;Before  he  kicks  off  and  smells  the  car  up  to  high  heaven.&quot;  &quot;Exactly.  Will  you  give  it  a  try?&quot;  &quot;Il  try.  That's  all  I  can  promise.&quot;  I  left  the  car  at  the  garage  and  took  a  bus  into  town.  When  I  got  back  that  evening,  just  as  Glenn  was  about  to  close,  he  told  me  he  Aad  tried.  &quot;You'd  have  to  tear  off  half  the  side  of  the  car  to  get  that  thing  out,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Maybe  you'd  better  make  a  quick  trade.&quot;  The  thought  of  trading  in  the  car  had  crossed  my  mind,  but  by  now  I  was  be-  ginning  to  feel  a  strong  affinity  for  the  turtle,  and  I  wasn't  about  to  desert  him.  How  could  I  let  him  down?  After  all,  it  wasn't  his  idea.  He  hadn't  asked  to  be  transported  in  a  trunk.  That  night  I  called  my  wife  and  the  children  to  tell  themwhat  had  hap-  pened.  Everyone  there  sympathized  with  the  turtle.  He  had  to  be  extricated  somehow,  though  no  one  was  quite  sure  how  to  do  it.  I  did  get  a  good  deal  of  advice,  most  of  it  tongue-in-cheek.  &quot;Back  the  car  into  a  lake  and  let  him  swim  out,&quot;  my  father-in-law  said,  &quot;Fill  the  fender  well  with  water  and  float  him  to  the  top,&quot;  my  wife's  younger  brother  said.  (This  one  sounded  good  enough  to  try,  but  various  leaks  made  it  impossible  to  get  the  water  level  high  enough.)  &quot;Call  the  Mercury  garage  downtown,&quot;  my  wife  said.  &quot;They  cer-  tainly  should  know  what  to  do.&quot;  I  called  the  Mercury  garage  the  next  morning,  but  the  people  there-fine  mechanics  though  they  may  be-had" b"little  or  no  interest  in  turtles.  I  don't  think  they  took  my  problem  seriously.  They  even  questioned  my  grasp  of  the  situation,  claiming  that  a  turtle  couldn't  possibly  get  where  mine  was.  I  agreed  and  went  back  to  my  dilemma.  My  ears  were  attuned  to  the  turtle's  scratchings  by  now,  and  every  morning  as  I  drove  to  work  I  could  hear  him,  faintly,  when  I  stopped  for  a  light.  I  put  thecar  in  a  garage  near  the  office  instead  of  my  usual  parking  lot;  I  just  couldn't  see  leaving  the  creature  out  in  the  sun.  Six  days  passed,  during  which  the  turtle's  scratching,  though  persistent,  seemed  to  me  to  be  growing  feebler  and  feebler.  I  dropped  more  bits  of  lettuce  down  the  fender  well,  and,  once  or  twice,  worms,  to  sustain  him  during  his  ordeal.  My  family  called  every  second  night  to  see  how  he  was  gettingon.  But  I  could  think  of  no  way,  short  of  ripping  off  the  fender,  to  set  the  turtle  free.  HEN,  on  Saturday  morning,  the  day  my  wife  and  daughters  were  to  come  home,  it  happened:  no  scratch-  ing,  no  thumping.  I  started  the  car  and  raced  the  engine.  Still  no  sound.  I  kicked  the  fender.  Nothing.  I  sat  on  the  rear  seat  and  bounced.  Silence.  I  went  back  into  the  house  for  a  cup  of  coffee,  won-  dering  how  I  could  explain  this  to  the  children.  Now  I  Ahedto  get  the  turtle  out,  impossibility  or  no  impossibility.  In  complete  desperation,  a  man  can  overcome  obstacles  that  effectively  block  him  when  he  is  calm.  I  was  anything  butcalm.  I  snatched  whatever  tools  were  handiest  in  the  kitchen,  and  hur-  ried  back  to  the  car.  Ripping  out  the  back  seat,  I  jimmied  off  the  armrest  and  some  plastic-coated  side  material  with  a  screwdriver  and  paring  knife,re-  vealing  the  black  innards  of  the  car.  I  poked  a  flashlight  beam  into  the  depths.  There  the  turtle  was,  quiet  but  alive,  in  a  bed  of  wilted  lettuce.  I  don't  think  he'd  eaten  a  thing.  He  moved  slowly  to-  ward  the  fender-well  wall  as  if  to  greet  me,  and  I  reached  for  him  with  kitchen  forceps-the  kind  used  to  clutch  hot  meat  or  wet  stringbeans.  I  missed,  and  he  fell  back.  Again  and  again  he  stretched  up  for  me  to  try,  but  each  time  he  slipped  out  of  my  grasp.  Finally,  on  the  seventh  try,  the  forceps  took  firm  hold  on  aleg.  I  lifted  the  tur-  tle,  prayerfully  bringing  him  up  to  air,  food,  water,  and  freedom.  He  didn't  struggle  but  dropped  solidly  to  the  floor  of  the  car,  and  then  to  the  driveway,  where  he  was  greeted  enthusiastically  by  our  normally  unenthusiastic  dog.  Ex-  hausted  but  proud,  I  gathered  up  my  ob-  stetrical  tools  and  took  the  turtle  into  the" b"house.  There  I  put  him  in  the  utility  room,  in  one  of  the  washtubs,  with  plen-  tyof  water  and  fresh  lettuce.  He  looked  like  ahealthy  turtle.  From  all  the  excitement  around  the  house  when  my  family  returned  that  afternoon,  I  thought  we  would  have  the  turtle  with  us  for  the  rest  of  his  natu-  ral  life.  But  it  didn't  work  out  that  way.  A  free  turtle-at  least  relatively  free-  turns  out  to  be  much  less  appealing  than  a  turtle  in  prison.  My  biology-teaching  cousin,  whose  classes  were  studying  mammals  now,  had  lost  interest  entire-  ly.  By  the  following  weekend  my  wife  had  tired  of  moving  the  turtle  in  and  out  of  the  tubs  whenever  shedid  some  washing,  and  the  girls  didn't  see  much  point  in  feeding  the  turtle  more  lettuce,  since  he  didn't  seem  overly  fond  of  it  anyway.  So  we  decided  to  let  him  go.  There  wasn't  much  I  could  say,  really.  It  had  cost  us  thirty-five  dollars  just  to  fix  up  the  back  seat  of  the  car.  And  so  it  was  that  on  my  way  to  work  the  following  morning  I  transported  the  turtle  in  a  bucket  and  stopped  by  the  lake.  There  I  carried  the  bucket  to  the  water's  edge,  emptied  its  contents,  rinsed  the  bucket,  and  put  it  in  the  trunk.  My  parting  with  the  turtle  was  not  as  strained  as  I  had  anticipated.  He'd  won  his  race,  after  all,  and  was  at  peace  with  the  world.  And  so,  that  morning,  was  I. "