 b"I  HAD  it  timed  down  to  the  second,  I  down  to  the  last  decimal.  It  was  all  a  matter  of  organization.  Every  move  had  to  be  planned-every  reac-  tion  to  every  possible  event.  I  had  the  advantage  of  my  own  coolness.  Most  men  would  have  tried  to  pull  off  the  job  at  once,  withonly  a  day  or  two  of  preparation;  some  would  even  have  tried  to  enlist  associates.  I  knew  better.  An  instant  after  the  great  idea  struck  me  (I  was  standing  just  inside  the  mu-  seum  door,  on  a  clear  Friday  afternoon  in  August),  I  murmured  to  myself,  &quot;It  has  to  be  planned.  It  has  to  be  done  alone.&quot;  Six  weeks  went  into  the  prepara-  tions.  Step  by  step,  I  considered  the  various  hazards  and  framed  my  solu-  tions-the  entry,  the  first  guard,  the  second  guard,  the  ascent,  the  third  guard.  The  track  would  have  to  be  checked  on  theday  itself;  if  the  previ-  ous  day's  traffic  had  been  heavy,  there  would  be  grit.  I  settled  on  a  Tuesday  morning,  just  after  opening  time.  The  traffic  would  be  light  and  the  guards  not  yet  fully  alert.  Then  I  drew  up  my  schedule.  I  walked  through  it  again  and  again,  perhaps  thirty  times,  stopwatch  in  hand,  and  collated  my  findings  in  the  evenings.  When  I  was  sure,  I  wrote  it  all  down:  Enter.  Explain,  show  card-1%/%  min-  utes.  Second  guard-1  minute.  15steps  to  elevator.  Elevator-maximum  3-minute  wait.  Ascent,  40  seconds,  plus  30  seconds  for  each  intervening  stop.  Mean  average  of  stops:  3.  Landing  at  top,  third  guard.  Explana-  tion,  joviality,  good-fellow  routine-3  minutes.  Unwrapping  of  machine,  assembling  and  placement  of  machine,  distraction  of  third  guard-4  minutes.  Lowering  operation-1  minute,  12  sec-  onds  estimated.  considering  average  morning  traffic  and  dry  condition  of  floor  four  days  past  wax.  Beyond  that,  of  course,  I  could  not  prepare  with  exactitude.  'That  was  the  exciting  part.  I  would  have  to  lean  heavily  at  the  Archipenko.  In  light  traffic,  a  thirty-degree  angle  of  trunk  would  be  sufficient.  There  would  be  clear  sailing  past  Nonell  and  Alcoy,  and  little  worry  at  the  second  Canogar.  There  was  a  dead  spot  hard  by  Millares.  There  a  kick  would  be  needed,  and  I  settled  on  the  left  leg.  Then  and  Planell.  Tapies  was  the  point  of  no  re-  turn.  Here  momentum  overcomes  fric-  tion,  and  it  would  be  a  matter  of  centrif-  ugalization  versus  the  effectiveness  of" b"Dramamine.  And,  of  course,  I  would  need  luck.  Fortunately,  I  am  always  in  excellent  physical  condition.  The  night  before  the  day  of  the  job,  I  went  over  the  machine  carefully.  I  checked  the  effect  of  the  sequins  and  the  coffee  mill,  and  reglued  a  loose  fragment  of  the  newspaper  collage  on  the  footrest.  I  gave  the  ball  bearings  a  last  spin,  applied  a  bit  of  sewing,  machine  oil  to  them,  and  covered  the  machine  with  oilcloth  to  protect  it  from  the  night  air.  Then  I  took  a  sleeping  pill,  set  the  alarm  for  seven  o'clock,  and  went  to  bed  early.  WOKE  abruptly  at  five  minutes  to  seven,  and  laughed  at  my  victory  over  the  alarm  clock.  I  dressed  meticu-  lously-black  turtleneck  sweater,  den-  ims,  tennis  shoes,  horn-rimmed  glasses,  mackinaw,  beret.  Then  I  wrapped  the  machine.  First  Itied  the  shaft  to  the  frame,  handle  upward,  and  then  I  folded  the  paper  around  it  all,  being  careful  not  to  loosen  any  sequins.  I  studied  the  finished  package,  now  five  feet  tall,  checked  the  adequacy  of  the  string,  and  had  a  light  breakfast.  When  I  had  finished,  it  was  eight-  forty.  I  stalled  ten  more  minutes,  then  took  the  Dramamine  and  a  Milltown,  and  picked  up  the  machine  and  left.  I  got  off  the  bus  at  nine-fifty-eight.  I  approached  slowly,  studying  the  big  let-  ters  along  the  fagade.  &quot;'The  Solomon  R  Guggenheim  Museum.&quot;  Such  a  long  name,  I  thought.  The  Miltown  was  working  now.  I  stepped  up  to  the  guard  at  the  door  and  removed  my  beret,  Continental  style.  I  carefully  shifted  the  package  from  right  to  left  hand  and  pulled  out  the  slightly  worn  card.  It  read,  &quot;Galerie  Michel,  17  Quai  Saint-  Michel,  [REDACTED]  VI.&quot;  &quot;Les  Kandinskys?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  am-  'ow  you  say  eet?  -unm  painteur,  un  ad-  mirateur.&quot;  The  guard  looked  at  me,  eyed  the  package,  and  said,  &quot;Fifth  floor.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Merci,&quot;  replaced  the  beret,  and  entered  and  repeated  the  routine  with  the  second  guard.  I  had  placed  a  great  deal  of  faith  in  the  efficacy  of  respectfully  removing  my  beret  for  the  two  guards  in  order  to  distract  their  at-  tention  from  the  package,  and  I  feel  now  that  it  was  this  detail,  more  than  any  other,  that  led  to  my  ultimate  triumph.  &quot;Elevator's  to  the  left,&quot;  the  second  guard  said.  &quot;Merci,&quot;  I  said.  I  looked  at  my  watch.  Four  seconds  ahead.  &quot;Easy  [REDACTED];  Isaid  to  myself.  &quot;Keep  cool.  Don't  forget  anything.&quot;  I  dropped  a " b"book  of  matches,  and  as  I  bent  down  to  pick  it  up  I  felt  the  floor.  The  track  was  fast.  The  little  light  over  the  elevator  bounced  merrily:  &quot;4,  3,  2,  1.&quot;  The  door  opened.  Two  scholarly-looking  gentlemen  exited,  one  scholarly-looking  lady  entered,  and  I  followed  with  my  package.  &quot;Fourth  floor,&quot;  the  scholarly  lady  said.  The  operator  eyed  me,  then  my  package,  but  I  kept  silent.  I  removed  my  beret,  he  closed  the  doors,  and  the  riscent  began.  'There  was  a  bouncing  light  inside,  too:  &quot;2,  3,  4.&quot;  The  opera-  tor  stopped,  the  door  opened.  The  schol-  arly-looking  lady  left,  the  door  reclosed,  the  light  bounced.  &quot;Five,&quot;  said  the  op-  erator,  looking  at  me.  &quot;Last  stop.&quot;  I  smiled,  the  door  opened,  and  I  stepped  out.  I  walked  up  the  last  half-spiral-  I  had  paced  off  the  distance  many  times.  The  third  guard  stood  fast.  I  approached  him  brusquely  and  handed  him  the  gallery  card  without  a  word.  (I  had  studied  him  carefully,  and  I  was  almost  positive  he  knew  no  French.)  I  cut  the  string  instantly  with  my  pen-  knife,  and  the  wrapping  paper  started  to  peel  off  the  machine.  The  guard  was  watching  me.  I  knew  I  had  about  twenty  seconds  before  he  would  ob-  ject  to  the  paper  now  falling  on  the  floor.  &quot;Eet  ees  a  crazy  business,&quot;  I  said,  laughing  foolishly  and  shrugging  my  shoulders  in  the  manner  I  had  prac-  ticed  before  my  mirror.  'The  machine  was  now  bared,  and  its  crimson  brilliance  startled  even  me.  The  guard  took  a  step  to  one  side  and studied  it,  &quot;I'll  be  damned,&quot;  he  said.  (*  -  &quot;It  looks  almost  like  one  of  those  kid's  scooters.&quot;  I  said,  &quot;Hon  soit  gui  mal  y  pense,&quot;  again  shrugging  my  shoulders.  It  was  the  only  French  sentence  I  knew.  I  was  rapidlybolting  the  handle  to  the  frame.  &quot;Just  looks  like  a  kid's  scooter  with  a  coffee  mill  screwed  on  it,&quot;  the  guard  \xc2\xae  persisted.  &quot;I  don't  get  it.&quot;  I  nodded,  placed  the  scooter  on  the  floor,  and  moved  it  back  and  forth.  &quot;Eet  ees  a  mobile,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Post-  Calder.  Eet  ees  called  'Misery  3.2  &quot;  I  stole  alook  at  my  watch.  I  was  run-  ning  late.  &quot;You're  in  the  wrong  place,&quot;  the  guard  said  in  a  friendly  way.  &quot;You  |  want  the  director's  office,  over  in  the  other  part  of  the  building.&quot;  He  bent  down  to  reinspect.  I  straightened  up  and  pointed  toward  " b"the  elevator.  &quot;Lady  just  fainted,&quot;  I  said.  I  watched  him  hurry  off.  I  pushed  the  beret  back  on  my  head,  removed  the  horn-rimmed  glasses,  and  mounted  the  scooter,  placing  my  right  foot  firmly  on  the  footrest.  I  gave  a  swift  kick  with  the  left  foot,  and  was  off.  The  first  spiral  was  uneventful;  the  |-  Kandinskys,  the  Zobel,  the  Rivera  fused  into  a  beautiful  golden  yellow  as  I  passed,  The  breeze  was  pleasant.  I  was  amazed  at  my  brilliant  steering,  at  the  accuracy  with  which  I  passed  two  elderly  ladies,  one  left,  one  right.  I  picked  up  speed,  nodded  silently  at  the  Nonell  and  Alcoy  (old  friends),  swerved  beautifully  around  the  column  by  the  fourth-floor  elevator  doors.  I  passed  another  lady,  two  men,  a  little  boy,  and  either  two  or  three  young  girls.  It  was  hard  to  tell  them  apart.  Then  there  was  panic.  My  speed  in-  creased,  the  colors  fused-the  blues,  the  reds,  the  mauves,  the  watermelons  be-  coming  first  pastels,  then  gray,  thena  colorless  blur.  The  Archipenko  hairpin  turn  loomed  up.  I  wanted  to  scream.  Then,  as  quickly  as  it  had  appeared,  |  the  giddiness  left  me.  The  Drama-  mine-the  last  essential  detail-had  taken  hold!  I  braked  with  one  foot,  leaned  in  just  enough  to  compensate  for  the  drift  in  my  back  wheel,  kicked  hard,  and  came  out  of  the  hairpin  startlingly  fast  but  under  full  control.  I  estimated  my  speed  at  fourteen  knots  as  I  left  the  spiral  on  the  ground  floor  and  gracefully  circled  Brancusi's  &quot;Mir-  acle&quot;  four  and  three-quarters  times,  counterclockwise,  before  I  finally  came  to  a  halt.  I  got  off,  propped  the  scooter  gently  against  the  base  of  the  statue  (some  museum  would  want  it,  surely-if  not  the  Guggenheim,  then  perhaps  the  Smithsonian),  straightened  my  beret,  and  lit  a  cigarette.  I  walked  out  slowly,  past  the  staring  guards,  cool  to  the  end.  Even  before  I  gained  the  street,  though,  I  became  aware  of  the  full  depth  of  my  tragedy.  I  mean,  what  can  I  do  now,  for  all  the  rest  of  my  life?  "