 b"I HAVE  been  constrained  by  the  I  importunities  and  not  very  lightly  veiled  innuendoes  of  my  friends  to  set  the  record  straight  on  the  declaration  of  a  certain  Agatha  Winthrop  that  ap-  peared  on  page  7  of  the  August  27th  is-  sue  of  The  New  Yorker  under  a  photo-  graph  of  my  recent  domicile  (as  houses  are  called  in  the  Social  Register).  The  photograph  and  Agatha  Winthrop's  quoted  statement  form  the  essential  ingredients  of  an  advertisement  for  Crane's  letter  paper-specifically,  for  &quot;Crane's  Greylawn  paper  with  a  tissue-  |.  lined  envelope.&quot;  Agatha  Winthrop,  purportedly  writing  on  this  stationery,  is  quoted  thus:  &quot;  '.  .  .  so  you  see,  my  dear  Sir,  how  much  the  brownstone  means  to  |  me.  Surely,  your  impending  skyscraper  |  might  fit  in  quite  nicely  elsewhere.  Cordially  ...'&quot;  The  point,  or  kicker,  of  the  advertisement  lies  in  the  photograph,  {}{|  which  shows  wy  house  standing  intact  ||  but  utterly  alone  in  an  empty  lot,  thus  |}  leading  the  credulous  reader,  or  adver-  |!  tisand,  to  believe  that  Agatha  Win-  throp's  letter  and  letter  paper  have  ||  stopped  progress  in  its  tracks.  My  friends  have  helpfully  adduced  various  explanations  of  the  circum-  stances  to  account  for  the  existence  of  Miss  (or  Mrs.)  Winthrop  and  for  her  perfervid  attachment  to  the  house.  These  kindly  explanations  have  in-  cluded  the  following:  A.  Miss  Win-  throp  was  my  mistres-which  led  to  two  subsidiary  explanations:  A-1,  I  was  keeping  her  in  the  house,  or  A-2,  she  was  keeping  me.  B.  Miss  Winthrop  was  a  maiden  aunt  living  with  us  but  kept  sequestered  behind  a  barred  attic  door,  in  the  Charles  Addams  manner.  C.  Agatha  was  a  full-time  maid  in  my  }\xc2\xbb  house.  (To  one  living  on  a  scientist's  salary,  asI  am,  this  grotesque  theory  can  bedismissed  out  of  hand,  without  fur-  ther  discussion.)  Since  the  house  is  unmistakably  one  in  which  I  lived  until  December  15,  1959  (I  can  tell  by  the  unique  serrations  in  the  front  walls,  the  monstrous  apart-  ments  in  the  background,  the  last  two  figures  of  the  address-&quot;-39&quot;-clearly  visible,  the  wrought-iron  railing  over  |;  the  bay  window  below  the  top  floor,  the  air-conditioner  in  the  parlor-floor  win-  dow,  and,  finally,  the  morning-glory  [Ipomoea  purpurea],  planted  with  my  own  hands,  trailing  up  the  wrought-iron  handrail  to  the  right  of  the  stoop),  it  is  necessary  for  me  to  state  unequivo-  cally  that  none  of  these  explanations  apply.  A.  I  do  not  have,  and  have  never  had,  a  mistress  called  Agatha  Win- " b"throp.  B.  We  have  never  had  a  maiden  aun  t  living  wi  th  us  .  C.  None  of  our  maids  has  bee  n  called  Agatha,  althoug  h  we  did  have  a  part-time  maid  who  lived  out  and  who  happened  to  be  ca  lle  d  Fluorin  e  -a  name,  inci  d  entally,  of  ex-  traordinary  chemica  l  i  nter  e  st.  In  a  ny  cas  e,  I  could  not  have  tolerated  the  presence  of  anyone  called  Agatha  in  the  house,  on  grounds  of  euphony  and  aesthetics  alon  e  .  Should  anyone  b  e  wonder  ing  why  m  y  erstwhile  house  was  left  standing  all  alone  in  t  he  middle  of  that  empty  lot,  it  is  because  I  was  liv  in  g  in  it.  As  a  scien-  tist,  I  wa  nted  to  test  the  transplantabili  ty  of  the  hypothesis  that  an  Englishman's  home  is  his  castle.  In  England,  my  na-  tive  land,  it  is  unthinka  ble  t  o  tea  r  down  a  house  in  whic  h  people  are  living;  in  New  York,  this  appears  to  be  standard  practice  .  My  modest  success  makes  me  curious  as  t  o  why  my  ne  ighbors,  all  Americans,  in  various  states  of  flap,  bugged  out.  One  neighbor  t  hought  life  am  idst  the  demolition  socially  disadvan-  tageous.  By  contrast,  Mr.  Jo  hn  Peck,  then  director-general  of  the  British  In-  formation  Service  i  n  New  York,  on  dining  with  me  at  the  hou  se,  viewed  the  rub  bled  environs  and  co  mmented,  &quot;H  mm.  Exactly  like  home.&quot;  But  I  can-  not  digress  furt  her  from  Paffai  r  e  Ag  atha.  In  o  rder  to  clear  my  self  utterly  of  the  accus  at  ions  o  f  my  f  riends,  I  even  entertained  the  possibility  that  I  had  bee  n  harboring  a  split  personality-a  theory  suggested  by  the  fact  that  the  most  celebr  a  ted  of  al  l  schizophrenics,  Dr.  Jek  yll,  wa  s  a  qualified  medical  practitioner  in  the  Unit  ed  King  dom,  just  as  I  am  (D.M.  Oxford,  and  li-  censed  to  practice  medi  cine  in  the  St  ate  of  New  Y  ork)  -  and  th  at  I  might  hav  e  be  en  consorting  unwittingly  with  Miss  Winthrop.  I  decided  to  investigate  fur-  ther,  and  scrutinized  the  [REDACTED]  Telephone  Directory,  restricting  myself  to  id  entifiabl  y  female  Winthrops.  I  found  a  Mrs.  Alm  a  Win  throp  ,  an  Ed-  na  M.  Winthrop,  an  Eleanor  B.  Win-  throp,  a  Mrs.  Frances  Winthrop,  a  Mrs.  Frankie  T.  Win  throp  ,  a  Mrs.  Geor-  gette  Winth  rop  ,  a  Mrs.  Sarah  Win-  throp,  and  a  Mrs.  Tillie  Winthrop.  I  feel  it  is  significant  that  there  was  no  A  gatha  Winthrop  wha  tever.  I  trust  that  my  dil  igenc  e  will  be  considered  suf-  ficient  to  excuse  me  from  havin  g  to  study  all  t  he  Be  acon  Hill,  Back  Bay,  and  Brookline  Winthrops  in  the  Great-  er  [REDACTED]  directory.  One  final  possibility  occurred  to  me-that  the  note  might  have  been  written  by  one  not  living  in  the  house  " b"but  by  someone  interested  in  neighborly  d\xc3\xa9cor.  This  was  also  indicated  by  the  view  of  the  house  in  the  photograph,  which  was  clearly  taken  from  across  the  street.  I  have  interrogated  my  friends  in  the  houses  directly  across  from  mine,  in  the  hope  that  they  might  havebeen  harboring  an  unlisted  Agatha  Winthrop  who  possessed  a  flair  forthe  dramatic  and  a  surplusof  Crane's  tissue-lined  en-  velopes.  The  Reises,  the  Gumports,  and  the  Pratts,  however,  all  disclaim  knowl-  edge  of  the  Agatha  Winthrop  relict.  I  am  forced  to  conclude  from  the  weight  of  the  evidence  that  Miss  Agatha  Winthrop  is  entirely  fictitious  and  is  the  creation  of  an  unholy  cabal  of  Madi-  son  Avenue  and  [REDACTED].  To  use  a  word  of  that  distinguished  senior  American  Mr.  John  L.  Lewis,  I  wish  to  disaffiliate  myself  from  any  asso-  ciation  with  this  enterprise."