 b"I DID  various  things  at  college,  of  I  which  I  suppose  the  most  character-  istic  was  to  get  drunk.  I  did  not,  by  the  way,  go  to  Yale  but  a  smaller  and  more  northerly  place,  so  my  title  for  this  confession  is  traditional  and,  I  hope,  evocative.  But  if  it  evokes  whiffenpoofs,  blue  sweaters,  briar  pipes,  and  Albie  Booth,  then  it  evokes  wrong.  Here  is  the  image  I  intend:  a  stripling  sitting  in  the  dark  on  the  steps  of  a  Gothic  library  building  at  1  a.m.,  drunk  and  alone,  hiccuping,  as  light  snow  falls  on  his  insentient  shoulders  from  the  cold  night  sky  of  a  New  England  spring.  There  was  ivy  on  the  library  I  speak  of,  but  this  is  not  my  point,  nor  does  it  make  the  title  less  unfair  to  Yale.  Per-  haps  for  you  it  is  not  only  unfair  but  untrue  as  well.  But  it  has  to  be  Yale  for  me  because  of  an  ancient  conversation.  My  stepfather  is  speaking,  in  [REDACTED],  in  1935,  where  I  have  come  for  vaca-  tion  from  prep  school.  My  mother  and  he  are  talking  about  a  man  in  his  thirties  who  has  come  down  from  upstate  New  York  to  court  a  local  young  lady.  &quot;The  trouble  with  Stuart,&quot;  my  stepfather  says,  &quot;is  that  he's  still  going  to  Yale.&quot;  &quot;&quot;No,&quot;  says  my  mother.  &quot;Oh,  no.  It's  just  that  he  doesn't  know  what  he  wants  in  life.&quot;  At  the  time,  being  thirteen  and  ro-  mantic,  I  preferred  my  mother's  analy-  sis,  Stuart  was  very  good-looking,  in  a  hawk-faced  and  well-mannered  way,  and  my  mother's  phrase  seemed  to  me  to  fit  him  like  an  opera  cloak.  But  she  and  I  were  wrong.  The  trouble  with  Stuart  was  that  he  knew  exactly  what  he  wanted  in  life.  He  wanted  another  drink.  This  may  not  have  been  my  stepfather's  meaning  when  he  spoke  of  Stuart  and  Yale,  but  it  was  the  meaning  I  took.  My  stepfather,  along  with  other  peo-  ple,  was  indulgent  toward  Stuart's  crav-  ing.  They  seemed  to  make  various  ex-  emptions  for  him,  as  if  drinking  a  lot  were  a  quality  of  personality,  like  charm.  Among  those  taking  this  amiable  atti-  tude  was  the  local  girl,  an  heiress  in  a  small  way,  who  married  him  and  was  taken  back  to  upstate  New  York.  Whether,  knowing  Stuart  in  the  morn-  ings,  too,  she  continued  to  be  beguiled  by  his  persistent  attendance  at  Yale,  I  cannot  record.  But  it's  not  impossible;  marrying  four  or  five  years  later  than  her  group  in  town,  she'd  developed  something  of  a  Southern  gentlewoman's  liking  for  the  stuff  herself.  Perhaps,  then,  the  example  of  Stuart     had  a  certain  remote  influence  on  the  behavior  of  the  snow-bearing  sopho-  more  on  the  library  steps,  but  certainly  I  cannot  trace  my  youth  to  that  dark  des-  tination  among  the  white  crystals  with-  out  examining  another  early  influence,  named  Kyle  Roessler.  It  was  Kyle  who  once  remarked  that  the  reason  for  my  being  kicked  out  of  prep  school  was  not  that  I  was  caught  smoking  but  my  stupidity  in  being  caught  so  often.  Kyle  was  an  older  boy,  and  never  caught,  since  he  violated  rules  for  the  sake  of  the  forbidden  pleasure,  whereas  I  now  tend  to  see  my  own,  milder,  transgressions  as  having  been  unconscrously  flagrant,  and  intended  to  express  a  rebelliousness  I  hardly  knew  was  in  me.  Psychiatrists  have  that  apt  notion  of  free-floating  guilt;  there  is  a  rebelliousness  that  floats  pretty  freely,  too,  ready  to  cling  like  a  mussel  to  what-  ever  rock  may  stick  up  in  opposition  to  the  cold  current  of  approved  behavior.  Kyle  wasn't  really  a  friend  of  mine.  In  that  final,  troubled  year  at  prep  school,  I  was  fourteen  and  a  year  be-  hind  him.  He  roomed  with  a  boy  named  Cobb,  and  they  were  the  school  wits.  Generally  they  performed  for  their  classmates  and  contemporaries,  but  oc-  casionally  I  would  be  among  those  pres-  ent  and  laughing,  in  some  neutral  study  or  in  the  dining  hall.  Moreover,  there  was  restlessness  in  them  (the  stagger-  ing  thought  occurs  to  me  now  that  it  may  also  have  been  restlessness  with  them,  on  the  part  of  their  school  con-  temporaries)  which  made  them  now  and  then  spend  their  best  efforts  on  amusing  some  young-  er  and  unimportant  boy  for  an  hour  or  so,  as  if  each  of  us  must  be  reduced  at  least  once  to  help-  less  laughter  by  them  in  order  to  satisfy  some  Cobb  and  Roessler  need  for  fresh  conquests.  It  happened  to  me  one  night  in  the  study  of  a  classmate.  We  were  studying  for  a  French  test  together  when  Roes-  sler  stuck  his  head  in.  &quot;Books,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Cobb,  you  have  to  see  this.&quot;  Roessler  was  handsome  and  smart-  looking.  Cobb,  who  now  followed  him  into  the  room,  was  thin,  long-faced,  and  physically  mature.  Childhood  illness  had  delayed  his  trip  through  school,  and  he  had  a  deep,  comical  voice.  'They  stood  just  inside  the  doorway  and  be-  gan,  over  our  weak  protests,  to  build  a  comic  dialogue.  Since  obscenity  is  the  soul  of  prep-school  wit,  I  will  not  quote  it,  but  before  they  left,  my  stomach  hurt  from  laughing.  Their  leaving  was  sud-  OCTOBER  1,  19  60  den.  Cobb  stood  up-I  remember  this  quite  clearly-and  began  to  excuse  him-  self  elaborately,  and  Kyle  Roessler  cried,  &quot;No  you  don't,  Cobb!  Not  this  time,&quot;  and  darted  out  ahead  of  him-a  passage  I  was  unable  to  interpret  until  Kyle  himself  did  it  for  me.  I  saw  him  just  once  after  I  had  left  that  school.  It  was  in  the  summer.  I  was  fifteen  by  then,  had  spent  junior  year  in  the  [REDACTED]  public  school  from  which  I  was  to  graduate,  and  was  in  New  York  with  a  summer  job.  Kyle  called  up  before  I'd  got  home  one  afternoon.  He  had  found  my  father's  name  in  the  phone  book,  and  learned  from  my  step-  mother  that  I  was  in  town.  I  was  surprised  when  she  told  me  there  had  been  a  call  from  someone  named  Roessler.  I  hadn't  seen  any  of  the  boys  I  knew  in  prep  school  since  leaving,  even  the  ones  who  were  closer  friends  than  Kyle.  I  was  on  the  point  of  returning  his  call,  when  the  phone  rang.  He  said,  &quot;Quince  thePrince.  If  you  have  that  big  job,  maybe  you  have  some  big  money.&quot;  &quot;Well,  not  very  much,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;If  you  want  to  meet  me  in  the  Vil-  lage,  I'll  help  you  spend  it.  Come  on  down.&quot;  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Fine.  After  sup-  per?&quot;  &quot;Hell,  no,  Prince.  Now.  Right  now.  You  grab  a  subway  and  don't  let  go  of  it  till  it  yells  Sheridan  Square.?  &quot;  I  met  him  in  a  Greenwich  Village  bar-the  first  time  in  my  life  I'd  ever  been  in  such  a  place  as  a  customer.  But  Kyle  was  a  familiar.  The  bartender  called  him  &quot;Kyle,&quot;  and  he  told  me  that  he'd  picked  this  place  because  the  girl  who  played  the  cocktail  piano  would  sometimes  buy  him  drinks,  but  she  was  off  today.  &quot;Gin  bucks  are  cheap  and  good,  Prince,&quot;  he  said,  relieving  me  of  the  problem  of  what  to  order.  I  happily  or-  dered  two,  and  we  were  served  without  question.  It  was  a  fine,  expansive  moment,  and  it  spoiled  nothing,  for  some  reason,  to  have  him  admit  over  the  first  drink,  &quot;Quince,  you're  a  good  little  guy,  but  I'd  have  called  the  worst  little  guy  in  the  world,  the  shape  I  was  in.  I  mean,  I  had  to  have  this  drink.&quot;  It  is  a  matter  in  which  I  have  bol-  stered  recall,  checking  the  dates  and  ages  against  a  reconstructed  calendar,  for  imagination  rejects  it:  That  Kyle  Roessler,  bright,  from  a  good  family,  with  a  choirboy  face,  could  have  been  desperate  enough  for  alcohol  at  seven-  teen  to  have  gone  searching  through  the  phone  book  on  the  chance  that  he  might  " b"find  a  number,  get  in  touch  with  a  younger  kid  he  barely  knew,  to  sponge  from.  It  seemed  all  right  to  me  then;  fine.  Kyle  paid,  in  jokes  and  fellowship.  And  he  explained  that  curious  with-  drawal.  &quot;That  evening  you  and  Cobb  came  to  the  room,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Do  you  re-  member?  We  were  studying  French?&quot;  &quot;What  evening?&quot;  &quot;When  you  had  us  laughing?&quot;  &quot;I  don't  know.  If  it  was  junior  year,  though,  we  probably  were  drunk,&quot;  Kyle  said.  &quot;We  were  about  every  night.  Cobb  and  I  used  to  come  up  to  New  York  with  empty  suitcases  and  take  it  back  in  shaving-lotion  bottles.&quot;  &quot;The  thing  I  wondered  about  was,  Cobb  started  toleave,  and  you  ranout  in  front  of  him.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  Oh,  yeah,  then.&quot;  Kyle  frowned.  &quot;Sure.  It  must  have  been  right  after  the  time-  We  were  down  to  our  last,  Prince.  One  little  bottle,  and  Cobb  sneaked  it  out  on  me  and  left  some  real  shaving  lotion.I  actually  drank  some,  a  big  mouthful.  God,  I  had  the  shakes  and  everything.&quot;  He  paused,  and  then  said,  &quot;I  didn't  room  with  Cobb  last  year.  I  mean,  we're  still  friends,  but  when  you  have  to  hide  it  from  a  guy  ...&quot;  &quot;How  is  Cobb,  anyway?&quot;  I  asked.  &quot;Is  he  going  to  college?&quot;  &quot;He's  got  an  ulcer,&quot;  Kyle  told  me.  &quot;The  damn  fool.  Imagine  having  ulcers  at  nineteen?&quot;  Prep-school  drunks  were  rare.  Those  two  arethe  only  ones  I  know  of  in  my  school.  In  the  public  high  school  in  [REDACTED],  there  was  a  sort  of  classless,  ingratiating  boy  named  Bobby  Hoover,  who  was  pretty  addicted  to  beer,  but  we  didn't  see  him  around  much.  On  gradu-  ation  night,  after  all  the  talk  about  it  that  went  on,  no  one  actually  turned  out  to  have  a  pint  of  whiskey  except  me.  And  one  of  my  classmates  told  several  others,  who  told  me,  that  he  was  going  to  beat  hell  out  of  me  for  pouring  a  sip  of  whiskey  into  Francie  Forest's  Coke.  Francie  asked  me  to,  just  after  we  got  to  the  roadhouse,  before  I  knew  my  bottle  was  unique.  I  was  apologetic;  I'd  thought  it  was  the  general  idea.  Bobby  Hoover,  the  beer  lover,  didn't  join  the  graduation  party.  He  ran  with  an  older  crow  d-boys  who  were  out  of  school.  And  perhaps,  in  a  way,  Kyle  Roessler  and  Cobb  constituted  them-  selves  an  older  crowd  at  prep  school,  for  they  concealed  their  drinking,  in  an  atmosphere  where  most  of  us,  conscien-  tious  boastersof  small  vices  though  we  were,  would  have  been  uneasy  and  secretly  disapproving  had  we  known.  To  be  a  semi-alcoholic-it  is  hard  for  me  to  remove  the  prefix  for  Roessler  and   Cobb,  whatever  the  evidence-was  not  fashionable  until  we  got  to  college.  WOKE  up,  on  the  morning  of  the  day  that  was  to  end  on  the  library  steps,  with  four  electric  razors  under  my  pillow.I  didn't  know  they  were  there  im-  mediately;  I  only  suspected  that  some-  thing  would  be,I  didn't  know  what,  and  I  put  off  as  long  as  possible  moving  my  aching  head,  not  wanting  to  feel  anything  under  it,  through  the  pillow.  I  moved  my  eyes  instead,  first  over  41  g1t!~pf?  \xc3\xa9  to  Falstaff's  bed,  to  learn  that  my  room-  mate  was  up  already,  probably  in  the  bathroom.  Then  I  recorded  the  fact,  dully,  that  it  was  a  bright  April  day.  The  brightness  did  nothing  for  me  ex-  cept  to  hurt  my  eyes.  I  felt  sick  and  guilty.  I  regularly  felt  sick  and  guilty  when  my  eyes  first  opened  in  the  morn-  ing,  about  twice  a  week.  Sometimes  it  took  half  the  morning  to  find  out  what  I  was  guilty  of.  Sometimes  there  wasn't  anything,  but  this  morning  I  finally  sat  up,  put  my  hand  under  the  pillow,  and  " b"learned  that  there  was.  The  razors.  So  I'd  been  stealing  again.  I  had  various  ways  of  behaving  when  drunk,  and  al-  most  always  now  I  had  memory  blanks  the  next  morning,  so  that  it  took  a  clue  or  an  accusation  to  tell  me  how  I'd  been  the  night  before:  obscene,  wandering,  violent,  kleptomaniac.  Often  some  of  each.  Rarely  happy  now;  rarely  funny;  rarely  harmlessly  wild.  The  time  of  stunts,  like  riding  someone's  bike  down  all  four  flights  of  stairs  at  the  fraternity,  from  the  top  of  the  house  to  the  bar  in  the  basement,  had  passed.  I  fingered  the  razors,  wondering  whose  they  were,  afraid  to  bring  them  out,  lest  Falstaff  come  in.  His  clothes  were  still  on  a  chair  at  the  foot  of  his  bed.  I  saw  my  own  reversible  overcoat  where  I'd  thrown  it  on  the  floor,  and  reached  for  it.  I  could  put  two  razors  in  each  of  the  inner  pockets  and  then  throw  the  coat  in  the  closet  and  pile  some  laundry  on  it  until  I  was  ready  to  go  out.  As  I  was  slyly  picking  up  the  overcoat,  without  getting  out  of  bed,  Falstaff  came  in.  &quot;You  cold?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Cold?  Yeah.  Oh,  yeah,&quot;  I  said,  and  put  the  wool  coat  around  my  shoulders.  &quot;Don't  you  have  to  wait  on  this  morning?  It's  Wednesday,&quot;  Falstaff  said.  It  was  a  wonder  for  which  I  was,  and  still  am,  very  grateful  that  this  shrewd,  half-bald,  easygoing  boy,  who  was  popular  with  everyone  at  the  fra-  ternity,  had  wanted  to  room  with  me.  &quot;God,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Wednesday?&quot;  I  was  a  waiter  at  the  fraternity,  but  since  breakfast  was  a  drawn-out  meal  that  half  the  brothers  didn't  bother  with,  we  waiters  took  turns  working  it.  &quot;I'm  ready,&quot;  Falstaff  said.  He  had  been  dressing  quickly,  and  actually  was  ready  by  now.  &quot;T'll  wait  on  for  you.&quot;  He  wasn't  a  waiter,  didn't  need  to  be,  but  I  cannot  count  the  times  he  covered  for  me.  I  tried  to  nod  my  thanks,  with  my  mind  full  of  something  else.  &quot;Falstaff,&quot;  I  asked  cravenly.  &quot;Do  we  ..  .  have  any  beer?&quot;  &quot;I  saved  you  half  a  can,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;There  was  only  one  left.&quot;  He  opened  the  window,  reached  for  the  can  of  beer,  which  I  hadn't  seen  out  there  on  the  ledge,  and  handed  it  to  me.  &quot;I'm  going  to  run,&quot;  he  said,  and  did.  I  sat  there  cooling  my  hands  on  the  beer  can,  trying  to  stare  into  it.  Then  I  drank  it  off,  all  at  once,  looking  for  a  kind  of  charge,  a  settling  of  the  nerves  and  stomach,  which  I  knew  wasn't  there  in  half  a  can.  &quot;I  guess  I'll  take  a  shower,&quot;  I  said  outloud  to  nobody,  and  hauled  myself  out  of  bed.  I  no  longer  felt  sick-I  was  still  too  healthy  to  feel  my  hangovers  physically  for  very  long-but  the  guilt  persisted,  and  there  was  enough  alcohol  left  in  me  to  make  me  uncertain  on  my  feet.  Before  I  went  down  to  the  dormitory  shower  room,  I  got  the  razors  into  the  coat  pockets.  I  sat  on  the  floor  under  a  very  hot  shower  for  a  long  while-  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour.  It  didn't  make  me  feel  good  or  bad,  particularly,  but  it  slowed  things  down,  as  if  I  were  still  in  bed.  It  was  enervating  and,  as  I  built  up  a  steam  cover  around  me,  a  little  suffocating.  At  first  I  occupied  myself  with  trying  to  remember  whose  rooms  I  might  have  visited  the  night  before,  late  enough  and  drunk  enough  to  have  picked  up  electric  razors  in  them.  To  do  this,  I  had  to  reconstruct,  start-  ing  with  the  two  dollars  'd.had  in  the  afternoon.  I'd  got  these  in  payment  from  Angus  Baker,  an  alumnus  who  owned  a  book-  store  in  town,  where  a  friend  of  mine  named  Jeff  worked  regu-  larly;  Jeff  had  got  Angus  Baker  to  take  me  on,  an  afternoon  a  week,  addressing  envelopes.  An-  gus  had  given  me  the  two  dollars  on  account,  and  I'd  immediately  spent  thirty  cents  of  it  on  a  quart  of  the  cheap-  est  beer.  This,  because  it  was  a  nice  enough  day  and  because  I  didn't  want  to  share  it,  I'd  drunk  outdoors,  by  my-  self,  before  going  to  the  Omicron  house  to  put  on  a  waiter's  jacket  and  work  supper.  I  was  early  at  the  house,  and  as  I  went  in,  someone  was  playing  the  piano.  That  was  a  rare  enough  thing  at  the  Omicron  house,  by  itself.  That  the  music,  unevenly  but  not  inexpertly  played,  should  have  been  classical  (Mo-  zart,  I  now  guess;  I  had  no  idea  then)  made  this  so  unusual  that  I  went  into  the  library  to  see  who  it  was.  I  expected  a  stranger;  instead,  I  found  an  upper-  classman  we  called  43616e616461Park  Wes,  who  stopped  playing  the  moment  he  heard  me  in  the  room.  &quot;Wes,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  didn't  know  you  played.&quot;  &quot;I  don't.&quot;  &quot;'That  wasn't  the  radio.&quot;  &quot;Quince,&quot;  he  said  in  the  strange,  gravelly  voice  that  told  me  he  was  fairly  well  into  his  daily  intake  of  liquor.  &quot;Do  you  want  a  drink?&quot;  It  was  a  bribe  to  change  the  subject;  I  found  the  bribe  acceptable,  and  followed  him  upstairs.  The  quart  of  beer,the  drinks  Wes  gave  me,  I  remembered  perfectly  well  as  I  sat  in  my  shower.  I  remembered  " b"eating,  and  then  helping  to  serve  supper.  After  supper,  something  unusual:  Wes  had  asked  me  back  to  his  room  to  help  kill  the  bottle-unusual  because  we  didn't  pass  liquor  around  much  in  col-  lege.  But  we'd  been  having  a  conversa-  tion  before  supper  that  interested  him,  I  guessed,  and  gradually  I  remembered  that  Wes  had  been  talking  about  him-  self.  &quot;...  I'm  no  musician,  Quince.  For  Christ's  sake,  I  think  too  much  of  musicians  to  call  myself  one.  But  I  had  a  lot  of  training  once.  ...&quot;  Wes  was  a  beautifully  trained  tennis  player,  too;  they  said  he  could  still  play  well  enough  drunk  to  take  the  first  few  games  in  a  set  from  the  No.  1  player  on  the  college  team  sober.  But  by  his  final  year  in  college  he  had  only  the  remembered  reflexes  left.  He  looked  partly  eaten  away  by  alcohol,  and  old.  I  will  not  ask  you  to  imagine  that  I  tried  to  analyze  Wes,  his  condi-  tion,  his  place  in  the  cam-  pus  scheme,  as  I  sat  soak-  ing  my  own  toneless  body  in  hot  water  and  steam.  I  can  offer  an  analysis  now,  though,  and  I  shall  have  to  begin  by  saying  that  it  seems  to  me  correct  enough  that  we  learn  to  drink  in  college  in  a  cul-  ture  as  oriented  to  alcohol as  our  own.  (Isn't  our  national  drinking  pat-  tern  the  nearly  universal  symptom  of,  and  home  remedy  for,  everyman's  American  neurosis?  )  For  the  businessmen,  the  salesmen,  the  engineers,  intellectuals,  or  profes-  sionals  we  are  going  to  become,  and  the  fathers  and  husbands,  drinking  is  a  technique,  even  a  way  of  enjoyment-if  that's  not  too  Liberal  Arts  a  way     of  putting  it-that  most  of  us  will  need  to  know.  The  college  environ-  ment  favors  this  learn-  ing,  and  our  bodies  at  that  age  sustain  it  pretty  well.  And  I  would  main-  tain  that  there  is  a  high  degree  of  not  quite  con-  scious  recognition  among  undergraduates  of  the  programmatic  need  to  develop  ability  with  al-  cohol.  This  may  explain  why  undergraduates,  who  are  conservative  in  general,  accord  more  admiration  and  emulation  to  those  who  handle  the  cup  with  flair  than  they  do  to  those  who  sweat,  whether  over  books  or  over  balls  of  various  shapes  and  sizes.  According  to  the  terminology  of  my  college  genera-  tion,  the  man  who  drank  well  and  per-  formed  colorfully  was  a  &quot;hot  apple,&quot;  and  since  college  I  have  occasionally  heard  the  term,  or  one  of  its  derivatives,  applied  to  a  contemporary  who  has  done  some-  thing  shrewd  in  business,  is  rising  high  in  politics  or  cutting  deep  in  surgery.  The  hot  apple  in  college  could  go  too  far,  could  drink  to  a  point  where  his  nerves  began  to  deteriorate,  his  behavior  grew  surly  or  sloppy;  then  he  might  continue  to  be  admired  for  a  time,  be-  cause  ofpast  reputation,  but  he  would  eventually  lose  the  general  admiration  of  the  campus,  as  Wes  had.  But  among  the  corps  of  hot  apples,  the  really  excessive  drinker  who  had  begun  like  them  and  gone  beyond  was  still  cher-  ished  and  supported,  his  surliness  and  sloppiness  greeted  next  morning  with  companionable  laughter,  as  if  he  were  a  kind  of  holy  man  in  the  cult,  the  extent  and  extravagance  of  whose  dedication  could  only  be  admired  by  the  initiate.  Then  what  of  Young  Quincy,  now  finally  drying  his  waterlogged  body  in  the  shower  room,  staring  at  his  water-  reddened  eyes  in  the  mirror,  feeling  a  little  worse,not  better,  from  the  long  immersion?  It  is  something  I  can  never  know  exactly,  and  that  cannot  fret  me  any  longer,  anyhow,  but  I  do  not  think  that  Quincy-at-  Yale  ever  quite  made  it  as  a  hot  apple,  and  therefore  was  not,  that  morning,  in  the  process  of  becom-  ing  a  holy  man.  I  think  that,  dry  and  chilly  now,  walking  back  to  his  room  with  a  towel  around  him,  he  is  mere-  ly  an  unfortunate  little  drunk.  Consider  the  other  things  I  had  been  able  to  remember  about  the  pre-  vious  evening:  I  had  left  the  fraternity,  veryhigh  from  Wes's  whiskey,  and  gone  to  the  dormitory  room  of  my  classmate  and  fraternity  brother  Walt  Basil.  They  were  having  a  poker  game  there,  and  they  quickly  bilked  me  of  what  remained  of  my  two  dollars.  They  did  this  by  waiting  until  I  had  a  fair  hand  and  Basil  a  good  one;  then  his  confederate,  hold-  ing  nothing,  stayed  in  the  pot  against  both  of  us,  to  keep  the  betting  open,  un-  til  all  the  chips  in  front  of  me  were  gone.  I  knew  this  was  calculated  the  moment  cards  were  shown  and  the  confederate  was  saying,  too  guilelessly,  &quot;Gee,  Quince,  you're  a  hard  man  to  bluff.&quot;  I  felt  more  stupid  than  angry.  It  depressed  me,  because  I'd  intended  to  go  down  to  Pat's,  a  local  beer  joint,  and  join  Falstaff,  and  now  could  not  afford  to.  I  retaliated  by  swiping  two  or  three  cans  of  beer  from  a  paper  bag  in  the  corner,  while  they  were  intent  on  their  cards.  I  put  the  cans  into  those  in-  side  overcoat  pockets  and  went  out.  I  drank  them,  and  I  wandered  for  a     " b"while;  memory  began  to  go  blank  then.  I  could  remember  standing  some-  where,  in  the  couple  of  ensuing  hours,  halfway  downtown,  yelling  vile  insults  at  the  drivers  of  passing  cars.  Possibly  Falstaff  was  with  me  by  then.  I  may  have  picked  him  up  at  the  beer  joint.  At  some  later  point,  we  parted,  and  I  wan-  dered  some  more,  probably  to  the  vari-  ous  rooms  where  I  had  got  the  razors.  There  was  a  little  flash  of  clear  memory  covering  a  couple  of  minutes  as  I  came  through  the  dormitory  halls,  on  my  way  to  bed.  There  were  light  bulbs  hang-  ing  in  wire  cages  from  the  ceilings  of  the  empty  corridors,  and  as  I  came  along  I  found  that  I  could  leap  up  and  strike  each  cage  in  turn  with  my  fist,  shatter-  ing  the  bulb  inside  it.  I  got  every  one.  Now  I  glanced  up  at  the  ceiling,  but  the  bulb,  if  I  had  really  broken  it,  had  already  been  replaced.  I  got  dressed,  in  a  pair  of  khaki  pants  and  a  blue  shirt,  put  on  my  weighted  coat,  and  checked  under  the  pillow  again.  There,  overlooked  when  I'd  re-  moved  the  razors,  was  a  black  knit  tie  that  I'd  apparently  stolen  as  well.  Black  knit  ties  were  what  everyone  was  af-  fecting  just  then,  but  I  had  been  unable  to  afford  one.  I  stared  at  the  tie  a  long  while;  I  wanted  it  almost  as  much  as  I  didn't  want  the  razors.  I  told  myself  that  it  was  like  every  other  black  knit  tie  and  couldn't  be  identified,  that  it  would  be  harder  to  explain  in  returning  it  than  an  electric  razor,  that  its  owner  would  never  miss  it,  that  I  would  certainly  re-  turn  it  if  I  knew  exactly  whose  it  was,  and  then  I  added  it  to  my  meagre  legiti-  mate  collection  of  ties  on  a  hanger  in  the  closet,  putting  several  older  ones  on  top  of  it  for  concealment.  [REDACTED]  was  over  at  the  Omicron  house  when  I  got  there.  I  stood  aside  to  let  a  couple  of  fraternity  brothers  who  had  nine-o'clock  classes  rush  past.  I  had  a  nine-o'clock  myself-German;  I'd  failed  the  mid-semester  tests  in  it.  I  ought  to  turn  and  run  along  with  the  others,  but  I  hadn't  prepared.  And  didn't  have  my  book  with  me.  I  went  on  into  the  house,  took  off  my  coat  with  the  bulging  pockets,  and  carried  it  over  my  arm.  &quot;Quince!&quot;  It  was  Walt  Basil's  stinging,  mock-  friendly  voice  calling  me.  I  glanced  in-  to  the  dining  room  to  see  him  sitting  with  a  couple  of  his  cronies.  &quot;Hey,  I  saw  you  let  Falstaff  wait  on  for  you  again  this  morning.  What  makes  you  so  nice  to  him?&quot;  The  cronies  laughed.  I  seldom  tried  to  answer  Basil  any  longer.  He  was  too  quick  for  me.  I  just  looked  at  him  sulki-  ly,  and  went  on.  His  voice  followed.  Two-tone  today,  huh,  Quince?&quot;  That  was  a  reference  to  my  clothes;  I'd  been  wearing  the  khaki  pants  with  a  khaki  shirt  the  past  two  or  three  days,  and  now  hadon  a  blueone.  &quot;Don't  go,  Quince  baby.  We  want  to  look  over  that  slick  combination.&quot;  I  was  at  so  low  an  ebb  I  barely  even  re-  sented  it.  I  plodded  upstairs.  It  seemed  to  me  probable  that  if  I'd  been  in  the  room  43616e616461Park  Wes  shared  with  a  couple  of  juniors  twice  the  night  before,  I  might  easily  have  returned  to  it  a  third  time  during  the  hours  I  couldn't  locate.  " b"   Wes  and  both  roommates-they  were  called  Brassie  and  Ed-were  all  asleep  still,  and  I  sat  miserably  in  the  study.  An  April  breeze  blew  in,  out  of  the  northwest,  through  a  window  these  healthy  types  had  opened  for  sleeping,  and  I  shivered  in  it.  But  I  was  shivering  as  much  for  a  drink  I  didn't  hope  to  get  as  I  was  for  heat.  I  didn't  quite  dare  put  my  coat  back  on.  Finally,  Brassie  woke  up  in  the  bed-  room,  came  into  the  study,  and  saw  me  sitting  there.  &quot;What  the  hell  are  you  doing,  Quince?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;I  wanted  to  see  you,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Lis-  ten,  was  I  here,  late  last  night?&quot;  Brassie  put  on  a  dressing  gown  and  closed  the  window.  &quot;Sure,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;You  and  Wes  were  sitting  here  when  I  went  to  bed.  Both  drunk,  I  need  hard-  ly  add.&quot;  &quot;Well,  listen,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  don't-I  don't  remember  what  I  did  very  well.  .  ..&quot;  &quot;You  didn't  do  anything,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  couple  of  quiet  drunks.  Weren't  they,  Ed?&quot;  For  Ed  had  just  come  into  the  room  and  joined  us.  &quot;Quiet?&quot;  Ed  said.  &quot;I  thought  they  were  dead.&quot;  Then  to  Brassie,  &quot;You  flying  this  morning?&quot;  There  was  an  Air  Corps  pre-service  class,  in  which  they  were  enrolled.  &quot;No,  listen,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  seem  to  have-  Well,  I  don't  know  what  got  into  me,  but  I  seem  to  have  made  this  collection  of  electric  razors.  I  mean,  I  found  them  this  morning,  and  I  guess  I  went  around  getting  them  last  night.  Did  any  of  them  come  from  here?&quot;  I  worked  the  razors  out  of  the  coat  pockets  and  laid  the  four  out  side  by  side,  on  a  desk.  Brassie  and  Ed  stepped  over  to  look.  &quot;For  Christ's  sake,  that's  mine,&quot;  Ed  said,  picking  one  up.  &quot;You  got  the  cord,  too?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;Nick  of  time,  pal,&quot;  he  said,  fingering  his  beard.  &quot;'You  do  this  sort  of  thing  often,  do  you,  Quince?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  I  lied.  &quot;Boy,  I  just  can't  re-  member  doing  it  at  all.&quot;  I  don't  know  why  this  is  accepted  as  an  excuse  from  drunks,  but  it  always  is.  Brassie  said,  &quot;Where  do  you  suppose  you  got  the  others?&quot;  And  I  felt  very  relieved.  It  was  a  change  of  tone.  They  were  going  to  let  me  off.  They  had  lost  interest  now  and  were  ready  to  go  use  their  razors.  &quot;I  don't  know  where  I  got  the  oth-  ers,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I've  got  to  cut  my  classes  and  go  around,  all  the  places  I  might  have  been.&quot;  &quot;You  don't  even  know  where  you  were?&quot;  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;Pleasant  kind  of  morning,&quot;  Brassie  said,  and  he  and  Ed  went  out.  I  put  the  three  other  razors  back  in  my  overcoat,  and  started  out,  happy  in  my  first  reprieve,  but  as  I  reached  the  door  a  hoarse  and  rather  dreadful  " b"voice  caught  me.  &quot;One  of  those  is  mine,  Quincy,&quot;  it  croaked.  I  stopped.  I  turned  and  walked  peni-  tently  to  the  bedroom  door.  And  there  was  Wes,  raised  up  on  a  trembling  el-  bow,  looking  at  me.  &quot;I  saw  you  take  the  thing  last  night,  you  goddam  fool.&quot;  &quot;Why  didn't  you  stop  me,  Wes?&quot;  &quot;Why  should  I?  You  got  a  drink  with  you?&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98(NO,\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Reach  into  the  bottom  drawer  of  the  dresser.&quot;  I  did.  There  was  a  bottle  of  gin  there.  Wes  had  a  drink  from  it,  then  compassionately  gave  me  one,  and  had  another.  Even  in  my  misery,  I  found  it  interesting  to  watch  him  after  the  second;  as  if  it  were  putting  the  wires  of  his  body  into  contact  as  it  went  into  him,  the  trembling  seemed  to  leave  first  one  limb  and  then  another.  Neverthe-  less,  Wes  was  a  terrible  sight  this  morn-  ing-any  morning,  I  suppose.  He  looked  sick.  His  flesh  was  virtually  color-  less,  his  hair  dry  and  dull.  There  was  even  a  smell  something  like  that  of  age  about  him.  I  didn't  want  to  watch  Wes  get  up.I  returned  his  razor  and  went  back  downstairs.  I  knew  I  wasn't  like  that  yet.  Would  I  be,  in  another  year,  if  I  didn't  go  to  war  first?  I  doubted  it,  as  a  child  doubts  his  own  death.  Anyway,  I  told  myself,  I  couldn't  afford  to  drink  that  much  and  that  often.  I  could  hear  Walt  Basil,  still  in  the  dining  room,  talking  and  laughing  now  with  Brassie  and  Ed.  I  had  planned  to  get  some  coffee,  which  was  left  out  all  morning,  but  I  didn't  want  to  see  either  of  them  or  Basil.  I  thought  they  might  go  in  a  minute,  and  I  walked  into  the  library,  where  Wes  had  been  playing  the  piano  the  evening  before.  I  looked  at  the  keyboard,  and  wished  passionately  that  I  could  play,  and  won-  dered  why,  if  Wes  loved  music  so,  he  didn't  use  the  piano  more.  There  weren't  many  books  in  the  library;  leather-bound  histories  of  the  fraternity,  presentation  sets  of  things  like  the  works  of  James  Fenimore  Cooper,  in  glass-fronted  cases  that  no  one  ever  opened.  The  room  had  a  big  double  doorway,  with  sliding  doors  that  could  be  used  to  shut  it  off,  and  on  one  of  the  doors,  which  stuck  out  a  little  from  its  recess  in  the  wall,  I  could  see  a  deep  scar.  I  left  the  piano  and  fingered  the  OCTOBER  1,  19  G60  scar,  for  it  was  mine.  I  made  it.  Months  before,  at  a  football  weekend,  when  things  were  going  better  ...  In  the  dining  room,  the  voices  of  Brassie,  Ed,  and  Walt  Basil  went  con-  fidently  and  merrily  on,  keeping  me  from  the  coffee.  ...  Sophomore  year  had  followed  the  same  pattern  as  fresh-  man  year,  pretty  much-starting  pleas-  antly,  declining  in  the  winter.  In  New  England  after  the  snow  is  old,  you  live  in  a  gray  box  with  a  sky  so  low  it  makes  you  feel  like  stooping  as  you  walk.  We  lived  so  closely  in  the  box-  Let  me  ex-  plain  it  this  way:  I  entered  college  with  two  assumptions  about  myself.  One  was  that  people  generally  liked  me  and  I  them;  and  the  other  that  I  was  bright  and  able  enough  to  be  a  good  student,  a  man  of  achievement,  and  a  droll  fel-  low,  all  without  particular  effort.  Be-  cause  of  these  assumptions,  I  started  my  freshman  year  confidently;  as  we  en-  tered  the  gray  box,  living  too  close  to-  gether,  both  assumptions  seemed  false  in  the  mirror  of  my  peers'  eyes  (peers?  betters,  betters);  and  the  more  I  pressed  the  falser  they  seemed.  By  the  end  of  the  first  winter,  I  felt  myself  to  be  disliked,  a  dullard,  an  outsider.  That  is  why  I  had  been  so  surprised  and  grateful  when  spring  came  and  Fal-  staff  wanted  to  room  with  me  in  the  coming  year.  Back  from  the  summer  with  a  little  perspective  and  confident  again,  I'd  entered  my  alliance  with  Falstaff  and  proceeded  to  have  a  fine  autumn.  The  box  wasn't  moved  over  us  until  after  Christmas  vacation,  and  up  to  then  I  had  come  as  close  to  being  an  authen-  tic  hot  apple  asI  was  ever  going  to  come.  The  scar  on  the  library  door  was  testi-  mony:  coming  back  from  the  football  game  that  day  with  Falstaff,  where  we'd  appeared  as  cheerleaders,  in  white  pants  and  sweaters,  a  lovely  big  joke  in  a  school  that  took  football  as  casually  as  ours  did  ...  a  lovely  challenge,  too  .  ..  how  to  be  out  in  front  of  everybody  and  yet  manage  to  drink  through  the  game,  being  able  by  virtue  of  it  to  give  up,  at  last,  brooding  on  the  failure  of  my  boy's  dream  of  playing  college  foot-  ball  ...  then  having  a  date  who  was  older,  pretty,  probably  compliant;  pick-  ing  her  up,  taking  her  to  the  Omicron  house,  having  drinks  and  jokes  .  .  .  guiding  her  into  the  shut-off  library,  reserved  by  tacit  understanding  for  such  enterprise,  and  beginning  to  progress,  behind  the  slid-closed  doors  ...  seeing  the  doors  open  a  little,  and  the  fatuous  face  of  a  young  alumnus  who  hung  around  our  parties  and  was  generally  considered  a  nuisancepeer  in  .  ..  So  what  if  the  fool  hed  known  her  " b" before  I  ever  got  to  college?  And  had  a  grievance?  He  should  have  known  better  than  to  insult  the  woman  with  Hot  Quincy,  the  cheerleading  Whis-  key  King,  fully  armed  as  always  with  his  trusty  one-shot  heavy-calibre  water  tumbler.  The  alumnus's  lips  had  barely  formed  the  word  &quot;pig&quot;  before  I  hurled  the  glass,  in  cold  and  unrepentant  fury.  It  shot  across  the  room  on  flat  trajectory  with  all  my  strength  behind  it  and  with  intent  to  maim-a  perfect  shot  at  the  head,  which,  with  drunk  luck,  he  hap-  pened  to  move  as  I  fired.  The  glass  shattered  on  the  edge  of  the  door  against  which  my  target  had  leaned  as  the  in-  sult  was  delivered,  and  splinters  from  it  showered  his  hair.  He  turned  pale,  was  unhurt,  and  went  squealing  away,  with  my  unabashed  curse  following.  Being  drunk,  I  had  felt  vindicated.  The  next  morning,  waking  with  a  hangover,  I'd  remembered,  and  been  unable  to  believeI'd  done  such  a  thing.  Hurried  over  to  the  house.  Found  a  couple  of  freshmen  inspect  ing  the  new  scar  on  the  wood.  &quot;Quince  could  have  killed  him,&quot;  one  was  saying.  &quot;Oh,  didn't  I?&quot;&quot;  I  said.  Much  of  being  a  hot  apple  was  in  the  ability  to  carry  things  off.  Now,  as  I  waited  in  the  library  fora  chance  at  the  coffee,  the  sear  was  old  and  it  appalled  me.  It  had  even  appalled  me  a  little  bit  at  the  time,  but  secretly-the  first  thing  I'd  ever  done  while  drinking  I  could  not  conceivably  have  done  so-  ber.  After  Christmas,  when  the  good  timereceded,  I  did  many  inconceivable  things.  The  razors  were  still  heavy  in  my  coat  pocket,  and  I  was  still  without  cof-  fee.  I  wished  hard  for  a  dime,  to  buy  a  cup  of  coffee  with  at  the  Union;  I  wished  that  Brassie  and  Ed  would  finish  and  go  away,  and  that  Walt  Basil  would  die.  Fi-  nally,  I  decided  that  none  of  them  would  do  anything  except  sit  there  and  talk  interminably,  and  I  knew  that,  badly  asI  wanted  a  cup  of  coffee,  I  didn't  want  it  badly  enough  to  join  them.  Not  that  Brassie  and  Ed  had  beenanything  but  decent  when  I  returned  the  razor  ...  All  right.  I  would  just  walk  by,  quickly  and  quietly;  I  might  even  wave.  They'd  made  so  lit-  tle  of  it,  it  was  probably  all  forgotten  by  now.  So  I  trudged  out  of  the  library,  across  the  living  room,  and  past  the  dining-  room  entrance.  I  didn't  look  at  them,  and  it  seemed  to  me  from  their  voices  that  they  weren't  noticing  me  go  by.  Just  before  I  got  past,  I  turned  my  head  quickly  to  glance  over  at  them,  as  if  casually,  and  there  was  Walt  Basil  looking  straight  at  me  and  grinning.  He  didn't  say  a  word.  He  just  lifted  a  cupped  hand  to  the  side  of  his  face,  stuck  out  his  jaw  to  stretch  the  skin,  and  buzzed.  S  I  walked  back  to  the  dormitory,  I  managed  to  remember  where  an-  other  of  the  razors  had  come  from.  It  seemed  to  me  I  had  stopped  off  at  the  room  of  a  boy  named  Johnson,  on  the  first  floor,  during  my  wandering.  I  walked  along,  shivering  a  little  in  the weak  sun,  rehearsing  what  I  would  say  to  him.  &quot;I  came  by,  nobody  here,  and  I  don't  know  what  got  into  me,  but  isn't  one  of  these  yours  ..  .?&quot;  I  knocked  on  the  door  of  Johnson's  room.  Apparently  he  and  his  roommate  were  in  class.  I  sneaked  in,  like  a  thief  in  a  movie  run  backward,  and  put  the  razor  I'd  de-  cided  belonged  there  in  a  dresser  drawer  I  felt  I  recognized.  There  was  a  fa-  miliar  bunch  of  neckties  there  in  the  drawer,  and  I  felt  fairly  certain,  seeing  them,  that  the  black  knit  tie  had  come  from  among  them  as  well.  I  left  Johnson's  room  quickly,  the  razor  lying  in  its  proper  place  in  the  drawer,  and  ran  up  to  my  room,  de-  termined  now  to  fetch  the  tie  back,  too.  There  was  a  note  from  the  Dean's  office  on  my  desk,  instructing  me  to  pre-  sent  myself  in  the  afternoon.  Caught.  Was  I?  I  told  myself  nervously  that  it  was  more  likely  to  be  my  classwork  that  the  Dean  would  question.  For  I'd  breezed  through  the  fall  semester,  been  on  Dean's  List  at  midyears,  had  un-  limited  cuts  because  of  it,  used  them  too  freely,  and  now  was  failing,  as  of  mid-  semester  tests,  three  of  my  five  subjects.  I  grabbed  some  books;  I  had  two  more  classes  that  morning,  and  would  make  them  both.  I  grabbed  Johnson's  tie.  I'd  certainly  put  it  back,  as  I  had  the  razor.  Just  then  Falstaff  came  in  from  his  nine-o'clock.  &quot;How  are  you  feeling  now?&quot;  he  asked.  Nervousness  over  the  Dean's  summons  gave  me  energy.  &quot;Alive  again,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;How  about  you?&quot;  &quot;Good,&quot;  said  Falstaff,  and  I  borrowed  a  quarter  from  him  to  get  some  coffee  with  and  ran  downstairs.  I  passed  Johnson  in  the  hall;  he  was  headed  for  his  room.  I  knew  I'd  never  return  the  tie  now,  which  was  wadded  in  my  pocket.  'Where  you  going,  Quince?&quot;  &quot;Union,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Cof-  fee  transfusion,  fast.  Got  a  ten-o'clock.&quot;  &quot;I'll  come  with  you,&quot;  Johnson  said,  and  we  ran  along  together,  and  sat  over  coffee  for  a  couple  of  min-  utes,  chattering  about  some-  thing.  My  hand,  stuck  into  " b" the  overcoat  pocket  as  we  sat,  was  hold-  ing  his  tie  all  the  time.  I  threw  the  final  razor  away  in  a  trash  can  on  the  way  to  class.  I  made  sure  it  was  tucked  well  under  the  news-  papers  and  other  debris,  out  of  sight.  Doing  it  made  me  feel  as  if  I  had  solved  a  nagging  problem  rather  brilliantly;  but  sitting  in  philosophy  class,  trying  to  make  out  what  the  lecturer  was  saying  about  Spinoza,  I  felt  less  than  brilliant,  and  my  apprehension  over  the  Dean's  summons  came  back,  full  force.  For  I  had  to  realize  that  no  matter  how  atten-  tive  I  tried  to  be,  I  didn't  have  a  chance  of  comprehending  what  the  man  up  there  was  saying.  I  had  missed  too  many  classes,  read  too  little  of  the  text.  My  presence  in  the  room  was  as  disconnect-  ed  with  what  was  going  on  there  as  weresome  words  I  stared  at  on  the  blackboard,  left  over  from  the  class  that  had  met  the  previous  hour:  &quot;torque,&quot;  &quot;sonar,&quot;  &quot;Bofors.&quot;  A  V-12  course?  'The  Navy  program.  If  I  were  to  read  the  textbook  up  through  Spino-  za,  could  I  catch  up  with  the  lectures,  understand  the  references?  My  other  morning  class  was  Shake-  speare.  I  had  done  well  the  first  semes-  terin  it.  Called  on  to  recite,  to  explain  a  tricky  passage  that  I  hadn't  read  in  &quot;Measure  for  Measure,&quot;  I  gave  it  a  try.  Seemed  to  me  I  did  pretty  well  with  it,  too;  was  improvising  smoothly  and  plausibly,  when  the  professor  cut  me  short.  &quot;Mr.  Quincy,  another  time  when  you're  not  prepared,  simply  say  so,  please,&quot;  he  said,  and  I  sat  out  the  rest  of  the  hour  resentfully,  more  afraidof  the  Dean  than  ever.  It  seemed  to  me  fairly  certain  now  that  it  was  my  studies  which  were  in  question,  and  that  I  was  going  to  lose  my  Dean's  List  privileges.  As  I  waited  on  table  at  lunchtime,  I  alternated  between  that  guess  at  the  Dean's  business  with  me  and  the  more  distressing  one  that  it  was  my  conduct  as  a  drunk  which  would  be  brought  up.  By  the  time  I  presented  myself  at  his  office,  wearing  coat  and  tie,  I  had  wor-  ried  the  thing  so  much  in  my  mind  that  I  was  rather  numb.  And  when  the  Dean,  who  was  white-haired  and  sweet-faced,  though  capable  of  tough-  ness  and  deception,  opened  the  inter-  view  in  a  kindly  rather  than  a  stern  voice,  my  numbness  promptly  turned  to  indifference.  &quot;Is  something  wrong,  Quince?  I  hadn't  had  any  notice  of  your  doing  this  kind  of  destructive  thing  before.&quot;  &quot;What  thing,  sir?&quot;  I  asked.  Had  no  notice  of  me  before;  good.  &quot;Oh,  I  assumed  you  knew  what  I  called  you  in  about,  This  matter  of  the  light  bulbs  you  smashed  last  night.&quot;  The  light  bulbs?  Oh,  the  ones  in  wire  cages.  Someone  must  have  seen-  a  proctor,  somebody-and  turned  me  in  for  it.  &quot;Oh,  yes,  I'm  sorry  about  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You'd  been  drinking,  I  assume?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  But  what  a  relief;  the  light  bulbs.  &quot;Do  you  do  a  good  deal  of  drinking,  Quince?&quot;  &quot;No,  sir.  Only  now  and  then.&quot;  &quot;And  there  was  no  particular  prob-  lem  you  were  reacting  to?  That  is,  oh,  a  disappointment?  A  reason  for  feeling  depressed?&quot;  Suddenly  I  had  a  sharp  image:  my  last  personal  talk  with  the  Dean.  Very  different.  More  than  a  year  before.  It  is  Thanksgiving  vacation,  my  freshman  year,  and  I  am  one  of  the  three  or  four  who  stay  on  at  college  instead  of  going  home  someplace.  On  the  third  day,  a  janitor,  checking  empty  rooms,  finds  a  boy  hanging  in  one  of  them.  He  is  a  boy  from  the  country,  and  has  killed  himself;  no  one  knows  him  or  enough  about  him  to  know  why.  Since  he  is  my  classmate,  the  Dean  hopes  I  will  be  able  to  tell  him  something  about  the  un-  known  freshman;  but  I  didn't  know  him  either.  The  Dean  asks  me  to  go  to  the  funeral,  and  I  do-the  only  student  there.  For  Christ's  sake,  a  &quot;disappoint-  ment&quot;?  &quot;a  reason  forfeeling  de-  pressed&quot;?  Did  the  damn  Dean  think  he  had  another  suicide  on  his  hands?  &quot;No,  sir,  there's  nothing  wrong,&quot;  I  said.  He  picked  up  some  papers.  &quot;I've  been  looking  at  your  record,&quot;  he  said.  'The  first  semester  you  did  very  well,  of  course.  Are  you  keeping  it  up?&quot;  I  smiled  with  relief  at  that  one;  so  he  hadn't  investigated.  &quot;I  hope  I  am,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Then  this  light-bulb  matter  was  an  isolated  incident.&quot;  I  agreed.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  sighed.  &quot;I  suppose  in  times  like  these  even  our  best  boys  feel  a  bit  unsteady  about  things  ..  .  pressure  of  the  war,  all  that  .  .  .&quot;  &quot;Yes,  sir.&quot;  It  wouldn't  have  occurred  to  me  to  use  the  war  as  an  excuse,  but  I  didn't  mind  adopting  itif  he  found  it  so  acceptable.  &quot;It  won't  happen  again,  will  it?&quot;  &quot;No,  [REDACTED];  I  said.  It  didn't.  Not  with  light  bulbs.  Car  aerials  were  what  I  went  after  next     OCTOBER  1,  19  60  time,  but  not  until  several  hours  after  I  left  the  Dean's  office.  What  happened  immediately  after-  ward  was  so  extraordinary  that  I  still  remember  quite  vividly  the  surprise,  suspicion,  and  finally  elation  I  felt  over  it:  I  found  a  bottle  of  Scotch.  I  was  cut-  ting  through  the  back  yard  of  one  of  the  other  fraternity  houses,  on  my  way  to  Omicron,  and  there  it  was  in  the  garbage  pile,  opened  but  nearly  full.  Water,  I  thought;  or  worse.  But  I  glanced  to  make  sure  I  was  unobserved,  then  crossed,  picked  the  thing  up,  took  off  the  cap,  and  smelled  it.  Undiluted  Scotch  whiskey,  thrown  out  in  error.  I  hid  it  under  my  coat  and  ran.  I  ran,  not  to  the  Omicron  house  but  to  my  room.  It  was  so  seldom  that  I  had  anything  to  share  with  Falstaffthat  I  felt  a  real  need  to  have  him  drink  half.  Caught  him  just  in  time,  too,  for  he  was  getting  ready  to  go  to  an  afternoon  lab  when  I  arrived.  &quot;Falstaff,look.  It's  real.  Behind  the  Sig  house  ..  .&quot;  He  felt  rather  strongly  that  he  should  make  the  lab;  he  had  no  cuts  left.  Be-  sides,  it  was  uncommon  for  us  to  drink  on  two  consecutive  days,  except  at  houseparty  time,  when  the  consecutive  days  numbered  four  or  five.  But  it  was  Scotch.  He  took  off  his  overcoat.  &quot;Quince,  boy,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Let's  get  in  trouble.&quot;  We  swilled  the  stuff;  we  talked  and  laughed  about  my  interview  with  the  Dean.  Johnson  and  another  boy  came  up,  and  I  gave  old  Johnson  some  Scotch,  too.  (The  other  was  in  training  for  basketball.)  We  played  some  bridge,  till  the  bottle  was  gone.  &quot;I've  got  [REDACTED];  Johnson  said,  and  we  switched  to  gin.  At  about  four-thirty  in  the  afternoon,  I  left.  I'm  not  sure  why  I  did,  because  we  were  all  enjoying  ourselves,  but  wandering  was  one  of  my  patterns  when  drinking  that  win-  ter.  I  went  out,  intending  to  go  to  the  lavatory,  walked  past  it  and  kept  on.  I  found  myself  next  in  the  adjoining  dormitory,  and  at  the  door  of  Walt  Basil's  room.  There  was  a  jazz  record  playing,  and  loud  voices,  and  I  walked  in.  I  said  the  music  sounded  fine,  and  Basil  greeted  me  civilly  enough  this  time;  no  jokes.  They  were  discussing  someone  named  Rockie,  whom  Basil  despised-Basil  despised  nearly  every-  one-and  whom  I  only  knew  by  sight.  And  someone  got  up  to  go  to  the  bath-  room.  And  Basil  said,  &quot;Why  don't  you  goon  Rockie's  rug?&quot;  There  was  some  amused  discussion  of  this  fantasy  project,  and  I  think  I  managed  to  surprise  everyone  when  I  stood  up  and  said,  &quot;Come  on.&quot;  &quot;Going  to  do  it?&quot;  Basil  asked,  appar-  " b" ently  delighted.  &quot;How  to  seize  that  gauntlet,  Quince  baby.&quot;  And  he  and  his  cronies  followed  me  enthusiastically.  We  went  to  Rockie's  room,  which  was  locked.  It  was  a  ground-floor  room.  We  went  around  outside,  Basil  opened  the  window  for  me,  and  I  crawled  in.  Then,  with  the  others  watching  through  the  window,  I  did  the  deed-was  in  the  midst  of  it,  when  Rockie  himself  walked  in,  by  way  of  thedoor.  The  oth-  ers  ran,  of  course,  but  not  without  shouting  enough  to  distract  Rockie  so  that  I  could  duck  past  him  and  out.  Rockie  was  at  the  window  when  I  left,  and  cursing  Walt  Basil,  not  me,  so  I  kept  running.  I  went  out  of  the  build-  ing,  out  onto  the  campus,  slowed  down,  and  walked  to  its  edge.  Angus  Baker's  bookstore  was  there,  and  I  could  see  him  and  his  pleasant  wife,  Connie,  inside.  My  friend  Jeff  was  with  them.  Jeff  came  out  as  far  as  the  doorway  and  beckoned  to  me.  I  waved  back.  Connie  came  and  stood  beside  Jeff.  His  friendship  with  the  Bakers  was  im-  portant  to  him,  and  heshared  it  with  me-taking  me  to  their  apartment  for  visits,  getting  me  the  job  at  the  book-  shop.  Connie  over  A  called,  Come  &quot;Quince.  Jeff  said,  &quot;We're  about  to  close  up,  and  Angus  is  making  Martinis.&quot;  I  went  over  reluctantly  and  said  that  I  was  on  my  way  to  the  Omicron  house,  because  I  had  to  wait  on  for  supper,  and  waiters  always  ate  first.  They  point-  ed  out  that  it  was  early.  Connie  said,  &quot;Don't  eat  at  the  house,  Quince.  Eat  with  us.&quot;  &quot;Sure,&quot;  said  Jeff.  &quot;That'll  give  you  time  for  acocktail.&quot;  &quot;'Then  you  can  go  wait  on,  and  come  back  for  dinner.&quot;  Connie,  who  was  eight  yearsolder  than  Jeff  and  ten  older  than  me,  liked  to  mother  us.  &quot;Beef  Stroganoff.  It'll  do  you  good.&quot;  &quot;Anything  you  cook  does  me  good,  Connie!&quot;  I  cried.  &quot;Stewed  acorns.  Fried  ferns.&quot;  I  was  always  fluent  with  Jeff  and  the  Bakers;  the  cat  that  con-  trolled  my  tongue  lived  at  the  Omicron  house  or  hung  around  with  Walt  Basil.  &quot;Are  there  really  Martinis?&quot;  We  were  going  inside  the  shop,  where  Angus  had  filled  four  glasses.  I  seized  mine  from  him,  grinning.  &quot;W  ait.  I'll  call  the  Dean,  and  ask  if  I  can  drink  this.&quot;  And  I  gave  a  highly  colored  account  of  my  after-  noon's  interview.  The  Bakers  laughed.  Jeff  said  he  had  seen  me  the  night  be-  fore.  He  didn't  laugh  at  first,  but  after  a  time  I  got  to  him,  too.  I  waited  on  in  a  pleasant  daze.  I  had  half  forgotten  the  matter  of  Rockie's  rug,  but  Basil's  apparent  regard  for  me  that  evening-I  waited  on  the  table  he  was  sitting  at-reminded  me  of  it.  He  had  told  the  story.  43616e616461Park  Wes,  sitting  at  the  same  table,  said  I  was  a  stupid  little  jerk  for  doing  it-fairly  seriously.  But  in  general  it  seemed  to  me  that  Basil's  approving  attitude  was  going  to  carry.  By  the  time  we  had  cleared  away,  after  supper,  there  was  a  crap  game  going  in  the  living  room.  I  still  had  fif-  teen  cents  from  the  quarter  Falstaff  had  loaned  me  in  the  morning.  I  joined  the  circle  and  waited  for  the  dice  to  come  to  me.  I  made  four  straight  passes,  and  ran  my  stake  into  a  little  over  a  dollar.  I  got  greedy,  and  kept  playing,  and  for  a  while  kept  winning.  Someone  was  driving  downtown  for  beer,  and  I  ordered  a  half  dozen  and  gave  him  the  money.  By  the  time  he  got  back,  I  was  losing,  but  I  had  the  beer.  I  quit  playing,  and  began  to  drink  it.  I  gave  Falstaff  a  couple  of  cans,  to  put  under  our  beds  for  morning.  Someone  was  go-  ing  through  the  house  yelling  &quot;Flicks  group,&quot;  which  was  jargon  for  &quot;Who  wants  to  go  to  the  movies?&quot;  I  had  just  enough  money  left,  so  I  joined  theoth-  ers,  taking  what  was  left  of  my  beer  " b"With me, and made loud comments through the picture. Afterward we went to a beer place, but I wasn't much of an addition to the group. All the beer and liquor, and the fact that I hadn't; t eaten, caught up with Me; I began feeling very drunk. During a brief memory lapse that followed, Falstaff assured me that I did nothing, just sat, but eventually got up without saying anything and drifted out the door. I was working a side street, being those car aerials - pulling the slim metal things out of their telescopic mountings and then savagely bending them out at right angels to the cars' fenders. I'd done ten or twelve carss- methodical, fugitive, and humourless - when I remembered I'd agree to go to the Baker' for dinner. It must've been close to midnight by then, yet I didn't go directly. I chose a long and secret way, disappearing down an alley here, stealing through yards, concealing myself in shrubbery. I wonder that I reached the Bakers' at al, for it was my fashion in that mood to arrive at and go to sleep in strange places - an unfamiliar study, fraternity living room, once even a lawn - where I would be found in the morning, sleeping clothed, and would get up without\n\na  word  or  a  look  and  go  back  to  my  dormitory.  Bu  t  this  n  ight  I  arrived  in  all  my  foolish  stealth  at  the  Bakers'  do  or,  stood  there  a  while  silently,  and  then  crept  in.  Ang  us,  Connie,  and  Jeff  were  there,  sitting  in  fron  t  of  a  fire  in  the  fireplac  e,  cozy  and  close.  They  we  re  startled  to  see  me.  Jeff  said  I  looked  awful,  and  Connie  scolded  me  for  forgetting  din  -  ner  but  offered  to  warm  me  some  food.  I  shook  my  head.  Angus  gave  me  a  drink;  then  he  asked  my  opinion  of  a  book  he  had  loaned  m  e,  weeks  before-  something  he  and  Jeff  had  been  discuss-  ing  w  hen  I  came  in.  I  hadn't  read  the  book  but  didn't  want  to  say  so.  It  was  as  if  to  admit  th  at  I  d  idn't  know  what  they  were  talking  about  would  be  like  conceding  that  I  didn't  bel  ong  there.  So  I  took  a  s  wallow  of  my  newest  dr  ink  and  tried  to  reply,  f  or  suddenly  I  wanted  to  belong  th  ere.  I  got  what  I  deserved,  whi  ch  was  hic-  cups.  Qui  te  violent,  painful  one  s.  De  spera  te  ly,  wanting  to  look  good,  be  amusing,  I  jumped  away  from  Co  n-  nie's  offer  of  a  glass  of  water,  a  paper  bag,  to  cure  the  hiccups  with,  and  I  said  I  knew  a  sure  way.  A  doctor's  secret.  The  Mayo  Clinic  always  did  it-  cured  hiccups  by  having  the  patient  stand  on  his  head.  I  demanded  a  cush-  ion,  which  Angus  gave  me,  rather  do  ubtfu  ll  y.  I  said  that  furthermore  I  would  sing  &quot;Dixie&quot;  while  standing  on  my  head  and  at  the  same  ti  me  holding  a  [REDACTED]  flag  between  my  bare  toes  and  waving  it.  J  eff  said  standing  on  my  head  would  be  enough,  keep  my  sho  es  on.  I  saluted  him  and  sank,  hiccuping,  to  my  knees.  I  set  my  head  on  the  cushion.  Standing  on  my  head  was  something  I  could  do  fairly  well,  but  not  that  night.  I  raised  myself,  got  through  about  a  bar  of  &quot;Dixie,&quot;  and  collapsed.  It  was  n'  t  so  muc  h  th  at  I  lost  my  balance;  my  arms  would  not  support  the  weight,  so  I  crumpled  into  them.  There  I  lay,  in  a  h  eap,  loo  king  up  at  their  unamused  but  kindly  faces,  and  still  hiccuping.  I  HAVE  no  idea  what  I  thought.  Per-  haps  no  more  than  that  it  was  time  to  go  now  and  stop  this  imposture,  along  with  all  the  other  impostures-time  to  go  and  seek  my  kind.  I  left,  trot-  ting  quietly  away  from  the  perplexed  reassurances  of  Angus,  the  solicitous  voices  of  Connie  and  Jeff.  In  point  of  fact,  I  had  no  kind.  I  could  not  go  now  to  where  Walt  Basil  and  the  other  hot  apples  would  be  gathered-trading  wit  or  planning  outrage,  at  someone's  ex-  pense-in  a  warm  room.  Or  back  to  Falstaff,  who  might  be  solicitous  but  might  also  be  a  l  ittle  tired  of  me  in  this  condition.  If  there  was  a  representative  of  the  kind  I  was  becoming,  it  was  Cen-  tral  Park  Wes,  drinking  by  himself  somewhere  by  now,  and  to  know  that  was  to  know  ours  was  a  solitary  kind;  we  might  meet  by  accident  sometimes  but  did  not  seek  one  another  out  as  other  kinds  might.  I  think  now  that  I  overestimated  my  college  situation  both  ways-that  I  was  probably  no  more  as  fully  re-  jected  as  it  seemed  to  me  in  the  bad  weeks  than  I  was  fully  accepted  in  the  good  ones,  And  I  even  suspect  that  for  most  other  boys,  even  perhaps  for  suffi-  cient  Walt  Basil  and  popular  Falstaff,  there  were  times  when  they  had  un-  certainties  not  unlike  mine.  Mine  may  have  gone  farther,  but  there  are  times  when  any  man  is  an  outsider-unable  to  see  that  to  be  outside  is  not  really  so  much  a  matter  of  being  rejected  as  it  is  a  matter  of  rejecting  oneself.  But  I  took  no  such  knowledge  with  me  from  the  Bakers'  to  the  library  steps  that  midnight.  I  merely  found  the  steps  and  sank  onto  them.  I  was  still  there  when  Jeff  found  me,  nearly  an  hour  later,  with  the  snow  falling  on  my  shoulders,  and  whether  I  was  unaware  of  it  or  simply  would  not  bother,  I  hadn't  brushed  it  off. "