 b"THE  Hotel  Stroh  stood  side  by  side  I  with  the  Guesthouse  Lublonitsch,  separated  by  a  narrow  path  that  led  up  the  mountain,  on  the  Austrian  side,  to  the  Yugoslavian  border.  Per-  haps  theold  place  had  once  been  a  great  hunting  tavern.  These  days,  though,  the  Hotel  Stroh  was  plainlya  disappoint-  ment  to  its  few  drooping  tenants.  They  huddled  together  like  birds  in  a  storm;  their  flesh  sagged  over  the  unscrubbed  tables  on  the  dark  back  veranda,  which  looked  over  Herr  Stroh's  untended  fields.  Usually,  Herr  Stroh  sat  some-  what  apart,  in  a  mist  of  cognac,  his  low-  er  chin  resting  on  his  red  neck,  and  his  shirt  open  for  air.  Those  visitors  who  had  come  not  for  the  climbing  but  sim-  ply  for  the  view  sat  and  admired  the  mountain  and  were  sloppily  waited  upon  until  the  weekly  bus  should  come  and  carry  them  away.  If  they  had  cars,  they  rarely  stayed  long-they  departed,  as  a  rule,  within  two  hours  of  arrival,  like  a  comic  act.  This  much  was  entertain-  ingly  visible  from  the  other  side  of  the  path,  at  the  Guesthouse  Lublonitsch.  I  had  come  to  this  little  town  be-  cause  it  was  cheap;  I  was  waiting  for  friends  to  come  and  pick  me  up  on  their  way  to  4974616c79.  Frau  Lublonitsch  weicomed  all  her  guests  in  person.  When  I  arrived  I  was  hardly  aware  of  the  honor,  she  seemed  so  merely  a  local  woman-undefined  and  dumpy  as  she  emerged  from  the  kitchen  wiping  her  hands  on  her  brown  apron,  with  her  gray  hair  drawn  back  tight,  her  sleeves  rolled  up,  her  dingy  dress,  black  stockings,  and  boots.  It  was  only  gradually  that  her  importance  was  per-  mitted  to  dawn  upon  strangers.  There  was  a  Herr  Lublo-  nitach,  but  he  was  of  no  account,  even  although  he  got  all  the  marital  courtesies.  H:  sat  punily  with  his  drinking  friends  at  one  of  the  tables  in  front  of  the  inn,  greeting  the  guests  as  they  passed  in  and  out  and  receiv-  ing  as  much  attention  as  he  wanted  from  the  waitresses.  When  he  was  sick,  Frau  Lublonitsch  took  his  meals  with  her  own  hands  to  a  room  upstairs  set  aside  for  his  sickness.  But  she  was  undoubtedly  the  boss.  She  worked  the  hired  girls  fourteen  hours  a  day,  and  they  did  the  work  cheerfully.  She  was  never  heard  to  complain  or  to  give  an  order;  it  was  enough  that  she  was  there.  Once,  when  a  girl  dropped  a  tray  with  five  mugs  of  soup,  Frau  Lublonitsch  went  and  fetched  a  cloth  and  submissively  mopped  up  the  mess  herself,  like  any  old  peasant  |  who  had  suffered  worse  than  that  in  her  time.  The  maids  called  her  Frau  Chef.  &quot;Frau  Chef  prepares  special  food  when  her  husband's  stomach  is  bad,&quot;  one  of  them  told  me.  Appended  to  the  guesthouse  was  a  butcher's  shop,  and  this  was  also  a  Lublonitsch  possession.  A  grocer's  shop  had  been  placed  beside  it,  and  onan  adjacent  plot  of  ground-all  Lu-  blonitsch  property-a  draper's  shop  was  nearing  completion.  Two  of  her  sons  worked  in  the  butcher's  establishment;  a  third  had  been  placed  in  charge  of  the  grocer's;  and  the  youngest  son,  now  ready  to  take  his  place,  was  destined  for  the  draper's.  In  the  garden,  strangely  standing  on  a  path  between  the  flowers  for  decorat-  ing  the  guests'  tables  and  the  vegetables  for  eating,  facing  the  prolific  orchard  and  overhung  by  the  chestnut  trees  that  provided  a  roof  for  outdoor  diners,  grew  one  useless  thing-a  small,  well-tended  palm  tree.  It  gave  an  air  to  the  place.  Small  as  it  was,  this  alien  plant  stood  as  high  as  the  distant  mountain  peaks  when  seen  from  the  perspective  of  the  great  back  porch  where  we  dined.  It  quietly  dominated  the  view.  RDINARILY,  I  breakfasted  at  seven,  but  one  morning  I  woke  at  half  past  five  and  came  down  from  my  room,  on  the  second  floor,  to  the  yard  to  find  someone  to  make  me  some  coffee.  Standing  in  the  sunlight,  with  her  back  to  me,  was  Frau  Lu-  blonitsch.  She  was  regarding  her  wide  kitchen  garden,  her  fields  beyond  it,  her  outbuild-  ings,  and  her  pigsties,  where  two  aged  women  were  al-  ready  at  work.  One  of  the  sons  ca  emerged  from  an  outbuilding  carrying  several  strings  of  long  sausages.  Another  led  a  bullock  with  a  bag  tied  over  its  head  to  a  tree,  and  chained  it  there  to  await  the  slaughter-  ers.  Frau  Lublonitsch  did  not  move  but  continued  to  survey  her  property,  her  pigs,  her  pigwomen,  her  chestnut  trees,  her  beanstalks,  her  sausages,  her  sons,  her  tall  gladioli,  and-as  if  she  had  eyes  in  the  back  of  her  head-she  seemed  aware,  too,  of  the  good  thriv-  ing  guesthouse  behind  her,  and  the  butcher's  shop,  the  draper's  shop,  and  the  grocer's.  Just  as  she  turned  to  attack  the  day's  work,  I  saw  that  she  glanced  at  the  sorry  Hotel  Stroh,  across  the  path.  I  saw  her  mouth  turn  down  at  the  corners  with  the  amusement  of  one  who  has  a  cer-  tain  foreknowledge;  I  saw  a  landowner's  recognition  in  her  little  black  eyes.  You  could  tell,  even  before  the  local  people  told  you,  that  Frau  Lublonitsch  had  built  up  the  whole  thing  from  noth-  ing  by  her  own  wits  and  industry.  But  she  worked  pitiably  hard.  She  did  all  the  cooking.  She  supervised  the  household,  and,  without  moving  hurriedly,  she  sped  into  the  running  of  the  establishment  like  the  maniac  drivers  from  [REDACTED]  who  tore  along  the  highroad  in  front  of  her  place,  She  scoured  the  huge  pans  herself,  wielding  her  podgy  arm  round  and  round;  clearly,  she  trusted  none  of  the  girls  to  do  the  job  properly.  She  was  not  above  sweeping  the  floor,  feeding  the  pigs,  and  serving  in  the  butcher's  shop,  where  she  would  patiently  hold  one  after  another  great  sausage  under  her  customer's  nose  for  him  to  smell  its  quality.  She  did  not  sit  down,  except  to  take  her  dinner  in  the  kitchen,  from  her  rising  at  dawn  to  her  retiring  at  one  in  the  morning.  Why  does  she  do  it,  what  for?  I  asked  this  question  at  the  caf\xc3\xa9  across  the  river,  where  I  went  in  the  late  after-  noon.  It  was  the  place  where  one  got  one's  information.  ''Yes,&quot;  they  said,  &quot;why?  Her  sons  are  grown  up,  she's  got  her  guesthouse,  her  servants,  her  shops,  her  pigs,  fields,  cattle  ...&quot;  And  they  said,  &quot;Frau  Lublonitsch  has  got  far  more  than  that.  She  owns  all  the  strip  of  land  up  to  the  mountain.  She's  got  three  farms.  She  may  even  ex-  pand  across  the  river  and  down  this  way  to  the  town.&quot;  &quot;''Then  why  does  she  work  so  hard?&quot;  'She  dresses  like  a  peasant,&quot;  they  said.  &quot;She  scours  the  pots.&quot;  Frau  Lu-  blonitsch  was  their  favorite  subject.  She  did  not  go  to  church;  she  was  above  church.  I  had  hoped  to  see  her  there,  wearing  different  clothes  and  perhaps  sitting  with  the  chemist,  the  dentist,  and  their  wives  in  the  second-  front  row  behind  the  count  and  his  family;  or  perhaps  she  might  have  taken  some  less  noticeable  place  among  the  congregation.  But  Frau  Lublonitsch  was  a  church  unto  herself,  and  even  re-  sembled  in  shape  the  onion-shaped  spires  of  the  churches  around  her.  I  climbed  the  lower  slopes  of  the  mountains  while  the  experts  in  their  boots  did  the  thing  earnestly  up  on  the  sheer  crags  above  the  clouds,.  When  it  rained,  they  came  back  and  reported,  &quot;Tito  is  sending  the  bad  weather.&quot;  The  maids  were  bored  with  the  joke,  but  they  obliged  with  smiles  every  time,  and  served  them  up  along  with  the  intermi-  nable  veal.  The  higher  mountgin  reaches  were  beyond  me  except  by  bus.  I  was  anxious,  " b"however,  to  scale  the  peaks  of  Frau  Lu-  blonitsch's  nature.  [REDACTED]  morning,  when  everything  was  glittering  madly  after  a  nerv-  ous  stormy  night,  I  came  down  early  to  look  for  coffee.  I  had  heard  voices  in  the  yard  some  moments  before,  but  by  the  time  I  appeared  they  had  gone  in-  doors.  I  followed  the  voices  into  the  dark  stone  kitchen  and  peered  in  the  doorway.  Beyond  the  chattering  girls,  I  caught  sight  of  a  further  doorway,  which  usually  remained  closed.  Now  it  was  open.  Within  it  was  a  bedroom  reaching  far  back  into  the  house.  It  was  imperial-  ly  magnificent.  It  was  done  in  red  and  gold.  I  saw  a  canopied  bed,  built  high,  splendidly  covered  with  a  scarlet  quilt.  The  pillows  were  piled  up  at  the  head  about  four  of  them,  very  white.  The  bed  head  was  deep  dark  wood,  touched  with  gilt.  A  golden  fringe  hung  from  the  canopy.  In  some  ways  this  bed  re-  minded  me  of  the  glowing  bed  by  which  van  Eyck  ennobled  the  portrait  of  Jan  Arnolfini  and  his  wife.  All  the  rest  of  the  Lublonitsch  establishment  was  scrubbed  and  polished  local  wood,  but  this  was  a  very  poetic  bed.  The  floor  of  the  bedroom  was  cov-  ered  with  a  carpet  of  red  that  was  prob-  ably  crimson  but  that,  against  the  scarlet  of  the  bed,  looked  purple.  On  the  walls  on  either  side  of  the  bed  hung  Turkish  carpets  whose  background  was  an  opu-  lently  dull,  more  ancient  red-almost  black  where  the  canopy  cast  its  shade.  I  was  moved  by  the  sight.  The  girl  called  Mitzi  was  observing  me  as  I  stood  in  the  kitchen  doorway.  &quot;Coffee?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Whose  room  is  that?&quot;  &quot;It's  Frau  Chef's  room.  She  sleeps  there.&quot;  Now  another  girl,  tall,  lanky  Gertha,  with  her  humorous  face  and  slightly  comic  answer  to  everything,  skipped  over  to  the  bedroom  door  and  said,  &quot;We  are  instructed  to  keep  the  door  closed,&quot;  and  for  a  moment  before  closing  it  she  drew  open  the  door  quite  wide  for  me  to  see  some  more  of  the  room.  I  caught  sight  of  a  tiled  stove  constructed  of  mo-  saic  tiles  that  were  not  a  local  type;  they  were  lustrous-ochre  and  green-re-  sembling  the  tiles  on  the  floors  of  Byzan-  tine  ruins.  The  stove  looked  like  a  tem-  ple.  I  saw  a  black  lacquered  cabinet  inlaid  with  mother-of-pearl,  and  just  before  Gertha  closedthe  door,  I  noticed,  standing  upon  the  cabinet,  a  large  orna-  mental  clock,  its  case  enamelled  rosily  with  miniature  inset  pastel  paintings;  each  curve  and  twirl  in  the  case  of  this  clock  was  overlaid  with  the  gilded-bronze  alloy  that  is  known  as  ormolu.  The  clock  twinkled  in  the  early  sunlight,  which  slanted  between  the  window  hangings.  I  went  into  the  polished  dining  room,  and  Mitzi  brought  my  coffee  there.  From  the  window  I  could  see  Frau  Lublonitsch  in  her  dark  dress,  her  black  boots,  and  wool  stockings.  She  was  plucking  a  chicken  over  a  bucketful  of  feathers.  Beyond  her  I  could  see  the  sulky  figure  of  Herr  Stroh  standing  col-  larless,  fat  and  unshaven,  in  the  open  door  of  his  hotel  across  the  path.  He  seemed  to  be  meditating  upon  Frau  Lublonitsch.  T  was  that  very  day  that  the  nuisance  occurred.  The  double  windows  of  my  bedroom  were  directly  opposite  the  bedroom  windows  of  the  Hotel  Stroh,  with  no  more  than  twenty  feet  be-  tween-the  width  of  the  narrow  path  that  led  up  to  the  frontier.  It  was  a  cool  but  sunny  day.  I  sat  in  my  room  writing  letters.  I  glanced  out  of  the  window.  In  the  window  directly  opposite  me  stood  Herr  Stroh,  gazing  blatantly  upon  me.  I  was  annoyed  at  his  interest.  I  pulled  down  the  blind  and  switched  on  the  light  to  continue  my  writing.  I  wondered  if  Herr  Stroh  had  seen  me  doing  anything  peculiar  before  I  had  noticed  him,  such  as  tapping  my  head  with  the  end  of  my  pen  or  scratch-  ing  my  nose  or  pulling  faces-any  of  the  things  one  might  do  while  writing  a  letter.  The  drawn  blind  and  the  arti-  ficial  light  irritated  me,and  suddenly  I  didn't  see  why  I  shouldn't  write  my  let-  " b"ters  by  daylight  without  being  stared  at.  I  switched  off  the  light  and  released  the  blind.  Herr  Stroh  had  gone.  I  con-  cluded  that  he  had  taken  my  action  as  a  signal  of  disapproval,  and  I  settled  back  to  write.  I  looked  up  a  few  moments  later,  and  this  time  Herr  Stroh  was  seated  on  a  chair  a  little  way  back  from  the  window.  He  was  facing  me  squarely  and  holding  to  his  eyes  apair  of  field  glasses.  I  left  my  room  and  went  down  to  complain  to  Frau  Lublonitsch.  &quot;She's  gone  to  the  market,&quot;  Gertha  said.  &quot;She'll  be  back  in  half  an  hour.&quot;  So  I  lodged  my  complaint  with  Gertha.  &quot;I  shall  tell  Frau  Chef,&quot;  she  said.  Something  in  her  manner  made  me  ask,  &quot;Has  this  ever  happened  before?&quot;  &quot;Once  or  twice  this  year,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I'll  speak  to  Frau  Chef.&quot;  And  she  added,  with  her  music-hall  grimace,  &quot;He  was  probably  counting  your  eye-  lashes.&quot;  I  returned  to  my  room.  Herr  Stroh  still  sat  in  position,  the  field  glasses  in  his  hands  resting  on  his  knees.  As  soon  as  I  came  within  view,  he  raised  the  glasses  to  his  eyes.  I  decided  to  stare  him  out  until  such  time  as  Frau  Lublonitsch  should  return  and  take  the  matter  in  hand.  For  nearly  an  hour,  I  sat  patiently  at  the  window.  Herr  Stroh  rested  his  arms  now  and  again,  but  he  did  not  leave  his  seat.  I  could  see  him  clearly,  although  I  think  I  imagined  the  grin  on  his  face  as,  from  time  to  time,  he  raised  the  glasses  to  his  eyes.  There  was  no  doubt  that  he  could  see,  as  if  it  were  within  an  inch  of  his  face,  the  fury  on  mine.  It  was  too  late  now  for  one  of  us  to  give  in,  and  I  kept  glancing  down  at  the  en-  trances  to  the  Hotel  Stroh,  expecting  to  see  Frau  Lublonitsch  or  perhaps  one  of  her  sons  or  the  yard  hands  going  across  to  deliver  a  protest.  But  no  one  from  our  side  approached  the  Stroh  premises,  from  either  the  front  or  the  back  of  the  house.  I  continued  to  stare,  and  Herr  Stroh  continued  to  goggle  through  his  glasses.  Then  he  dropped  them.  It  was  as  if  they  had  been  jerked  out  of  his  hand  by  an  invisible  nudge.  He  approached  close  to  the  window  and  gazed,  but  now  he  was  gazing  at  a  point  above  and  slightly  to  the  left  of  my  room.  After  about  two  minutes,  he  turned  and  disappeared.  Just  then  Gertha  knocked  at  my  door.  &quot;Frau  Chef  has  protested,  and  you  won't  have  any  more  trouble,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Did  she  telephone  to  him?&quot;  &quot;No,  Frau  Chef  doesn't  use  the  phone;  it  mixes  her  up.&quot;  &quot;Who  protested,  then?&quot;  &quot;Frau  Chef.&quot;  &quot;But  she  hasn't  been  across  to  see  him.  I've  been  watching  the  house.&quot;  &quot;No,Frau  Chef  doesn't  visit  with  him.  But  don't  worry,  he  knows  all  right  that  he  mustn't  annoy  our  guests.&quot;  When  I  looked  out  of  the  window  again,  I  saw  that  the  blind  of  Herr  Stroh's  room  had  been  pulled  down,  and  so  it  remained  for  the  rest  of  my  stay.  Meantime,  I  went  out  to  post  my  letters  in  the  box  opposite  our  hotel,  across  the  path.  The  sun  had  come  out  more  strongly,  and  Herr  Stroh  stood  in  his  doorway  blinking  up  at  the  roof  of  the  Guesthouse  Lublonitsch.  He  was  engrossed;  he  did  not  notice  me  at  all.  I  didn't  want  to  draw  his  attention  by  following  the  line  of  his  gaze,  but  I  was  curious  as  to  what  held  him  star-  ing  so  trancelike  up  at  our  roof.  On  my  way  back  from  the  postbox,  I  saw  what  it  was.  Like  most  of  the  roofs  in  that  prov-  ince,  the  Lublonitsch  roof  had  a  railed  ledge  running  several  inches  above  the  eaves,  for  the  purpose  of  preventing  the  snow  from  falling  in  heavy  thumps  during  the  winter.  On  this  ledge,  just  below  an  attic  window,  stood  the  gold-  and-rose  ormolu  clock  that  I  had  seen  in  Frau  Lublonitsch's  splendid  bedroom.  I  turned  the  corner  just  as  Herr  Stroh  gave  up  his  gazing;  he  went  in-  doors,  sullen  and  bent.  Two  carloads  of  people  who  had  moved  into  the  hotel  that  morning  were  now  moving  out,  shifting  their  baggage  with  speed  and  the  signs  of  a  glad  departure.  I  knew  that  his  house  was  nearly  empty.  Before  supper,  I  walked  past  the  Hotel  Stroh  and  down  across  the  bridge  to  the  caf\xc3\xa9.  There  were  no  other  cus-  tomers  in  the  place.  The  proprietor  brought  the  harsh  gin  that  was  the  local  specialty  over  to  my  usual  table  and  I  sipped  it  while  I  waited  for  someone  to  come.  I  did  not  have  to  wait  long,  for  two  local  women  came  in  and  ordered  ices,  as  many  of  them  did  on  their  way  home  from  work  in  the  village.  Mostly,  they  were  shop  assistants.  They  held  the  long  spoons  in  their  rough,  knobbly  hands  and  talked,  while  the  owner  of  the  caf\xc3\xa9  came  and  sat  with  them  to  exchange  the  news  of  the  day.  &quot;Herr  Stroh  has  been  defy-  ing  Frau  Lublonitsch,&quot;  one  of  the  women  said.  &quot;Not  again?&quot;  &quot;He's  been  offending  her  tourists.&quot;  &quot;Dirty  old  Peeping  Tom.&quot;  &quot;He  onlydoes  it  to  annoy  Frau  Lublonitsch.&quot;  &quot;I  saw  the  clock  on  the  roof.  I  saw-&quot;  &quot;Stroh  is  finished,  he-&quot;  &quot;Which  clock?&quot;  &quot;What  she  bought  from  him  last  winter  when  he  was  hard  up.  All  red  and  gold,  like  an  altarpiece.  A  beauti-  ful  clock-it  was  his  grand-  father's  when  things  were  dif-  ferent.&quot;  " b"&quot;Stroh  is  finished.  She'll  have  his  hotel.  She'll  have-&quot;  &quot;She'll  have  the  pants  off  him.&quot;  &quot;He'll  have  to  go.  She'll  get  the  place  at  her  price.  'Then  she'll  build  down  to  the  bridge.  I've  always  said  so.  Just  wait  and  see.  Next  winter,  she'll  have  the  Hotel  Stroh.  Last  winter,  she  had  the  clock.  It's  two  years  ago  since  she  gave  him  the  mortgage.&quot;  &quot;It's  only  Stroh's  old  place  that's  standing  in  her  way.  She'll  pull  it  down.&quot;  The  faces  of  the  two  women  and  the  man  nearly  met  across  the  caf\xc3\xa9  table,  self-hypnotized  by  the  central  idea  of  their  talk.  The  women's  spoons  rose  to  their  mouthsand  returned  to  their  ices  while  the  man  clasped  his  hands  on  the  table  in  front  of  him.  Their  voices  went  on  like  a  litany.  &quot;She'll  expand  down  to  the  bridge.&quot;  &quot;Perhaps  beyond  the  bridge.&quot;  &quot;'No,  no,  the  bridge  will  be  enough.  She's  not  sa  young.&quot;  &quot;Poor  old  Stroh!&quot;  &quot;Why  doesn't  she  expand  in  the  oth-  er  direction?&quot;  &quot;Because  there  isn't  so  much  trade  in  the  other  direction.&quot;  ''The  business  is  down  here,  this  side  ofthe  river.&quot;  &quot;Old  Stroh  is  upset.&quot;  &quot;She'll  build  down  to  the  bridge.  She'll  pull  down  his  place  and  build.&quot;  &quot;Beyond  the  bridge.&quot;  &quot;Old  Stroh.  His  clock  stuck  up  there  for  everyone  to  see.&quot;  &quot;What  does  he  expect,  the  lazy  old  ig?  &gt;&gt;  &quot;What  does  he  expect  tosee  with  his  field  glasses?&quot;  &quot;'The  tourists.&quot;  &quot;I  wish  him  joy  ofthe  tourists.&quot;  They  giggled,  then  noticed  me  sit-  ting  within  earshot,  and  came  out  of  their  trance.  How  delicately  F  rau  Lublonitsch  had  sent  her  deadly  message!  The  ormolu  clock  was  still  there  on  the  roof  ledge  when  I  returned.  It  was  thus  she  had  told  him  that  time  was  passing  and  the  end  of  summer  was  near,  and  that  his  hotel,  like  his  clock,  would  soon  be  hers.  As  I  passed,  Herr  Stroh  shuffled  out  to  his  front  door,  rather  drunk.  He  did  not  see  me.  He  was  looking  at  the  clock,  where  it  hung  in  the  sunset;  he  looked  up  at  it  as  the  quaking  enemies  of  the  Lord  must  have  looked  upon  the  head  of  Holofernes.  I  wondered  if  the  poor  man  would  even  live  another  winter;  certainly  he  had  taken  his  last  feeble  stand  against  Frau  Lublonitsch.  As  for  her,  she  would  probably  live  till  she  was  ninety-perhaps  more.  The  general  estimate  of  herage  was  fifty-three,  fifty-four,  five,  six:  a  healthy  woman.  EXT  day,  the  clock  was  gone.  Enough  was  enough.  It  had  gone  back  to  that  glamorous  room  behind  the  kitchen,  to  which  Frau  Lublonitsch  retired  in  the  early  hours  of  the  morn-  ing  to  think  up  her  high  conceptions,  not  lying  supine  like  a  defeated  crea-  ture  but  propped  upon  the  white  pil-  lows,  surrounded  by  her  crimson,  her  scarlet,  her  gold-and-rosy  tints,  which,  like  a  religious  discipline,  disturbed  her  spirit  out  of  its  sloth.  It  was  here  she  must  have  got  the  inspiration  to  plant  the  palm  tree  and  build  the  shops.  When,  next  morning,  I  saw  her  scouring  the  pots  in  the  yard  and  plod-  ding  about  in  her  boots  among  the  vege-  tables,  I  was  somewhat  terrified.  She  could  have  adorned  her  own  person  in  scarlet  and  gold;  she  could  have  lived  in  a  turreted  mansion  rivalling  that  of  the  apothecary  in  the  village.  But  like  one  averting  the  evil  eye,  or  like  one  prac-  ticing  a  pure,  disinterested  art,  she  had  stuck  to  her  brown  apron  and  her  boots.  And  she  would,  without  a  doubt,  have  her  reward.  She  would  take  the  Hotel  Stroh.  She  would  march  on  the  bridge,  and  beyond  it.  The  caf\xc3\xa9  would  be  hers,  the  swimming  pool,  the  cine-  ma-all  the  market  place  would  be  hers  before  she  died  in  the  scarlet  bed  under  the  gold-fringed  canopy,  facing  her  ormolu  clock,  her  deed  boxes,  and  her  ineffectual  bottle  of  medicine.  Almost  as  if  they  knew  it,  the  three  tourists  remaining  in  the  Hotel  Stroh  came  over  that  very  afternoon  to  in-  quire  of  Frau  Lublonitsch  if  there  were  any  rooms  available  and  what  her  terms  were.  Her  terms  vere  modest,  and  she  found  room  for  two  of  them.  The  third  left  on  his  motorcycle  that  night.  Everyone  likes  to  be  on  the  winning  side.  I  saw  the  two  new  arrivals  from  the  Hotel  Stroh  sitting  secure  under  the  Lublonitsch  chestnut  trees,  taking  breakfast,  next  morning.  Herr  Stroh,  more  sober  than  before,  stood  watching  the  scene  from  his  doorway.  I  thought,  Why  doesn't  he  spit  on  us-he's  got  nothing  to  lose.  I  saw  again,  in  my  mind's  eye,  the  ormolu  clock  set  high  in  the  sunset.  But  I  had  not  yet  got  over  my  fury  with  him  for  spying  into  my  room,  and  was  moved,  all  in  one  stroke,  with  high  contempt  and  deep  pity,  fever-  ish  triumph  and  chilly fear. "