 b"War  on  Mores  Bromns  'The  moths  are  beginning  to  eat.  Even  if  the  weather  seems  cool,  this  is  their  sea-  son  for  gluttony.  Miss  Rose  Finkel,  man-  ager  of  Keystone  Cleaners  at  313  West  Fifty-seventh  Street,  urges  that  these  pre-  cautions  be  taken:  All  winter  clothes  should  be  dry-cleaned,  even  if  no  stains  are  apparent.  Moths  feast  on  soiled  clothes,  and  if  a  garment  has  been  worn  several  times  in  the  last  few  months,  it  should  be  cleaned.  Clean  clothes  may  bekept  in  the  closet  in  a  plastic  bag.  It  is  safer,  however,  to  send  all  woolens  to  a  dry  cleaner  to  put  in  cold  storage.  Customers  should  check  to  make  sure  that  their  clothes  are  really  sent  to  a  cold  storage  and  not  hung  in  the  back  of  the  store.-The  Times.  Gay  HEap,  MartHa's  Vineyaro,  [REDACTED],  Jury  14  Mr.  Stanley  Merlin,  Busy  Bee  Cleaners,  161  Macdougal  Street,  New  York  City  Drar  Mz.  MeruINn:  HEARD  on  the  radio  this  morn-  I  ing  before  I  went  for  my  swim  that  the  heat  in  New  York  is  cata-  strophic,  but  you  wouldn't  guess  it  up  here.  There  is  a  dandy  breeze  at  all  times,  and  the  salt-water  bathing,  as  you  can  imagine,  is  superlative.  Miles  of  glorious  white  beach,  marvellous  break-  ers,  rainbow-colored  cliffs--in  short,  paradise.  One  feels  so  rested,  so  com-  pletely  purified,  that  it  seems  profane  to  mention  anything  as  sordid  as  dry  clean-  ing.  Still,  that's  not  exactly  your  prob-  lem,  is  it?  I  have  one  that  is.  Do  you,  by  chance,  remember  a  tan  gabardine  suit  I  sent  in  to  be  pressed  three  or  four  years  ago?  It's  a  very  ex-  pensive  garment,  made  of  that  change-  MoOTHMUSIK  able,  shimmering  material  they  call  solari  cloth.  The  reverse  side  is  a  red-  dish  color,  like  cayenne  pepper;  during  the  British  occupation  of  496e646961,  as  you  doubtless  know,  it  was  widely  used  for  officers'  dress  uniforms.  Anyway,  I'm  a  trifle  concerned  lest  moths  get  into  the  closet  where  I  left  it  in  our  apartment.  The  suit  isn't  really  stained,  mind  you;  there's  just  a  faint  smudge  of  lychee  syrup  on  the  right  sleeve,  about  the  size  of  your  pinkie,  that  I  got  in  a  Chinese  restaurant  last  winter.  (I  identify  it  only  to  help  you  expunge  it  without  too  much  friction.  I  mean,  it's  a  pretty  costly  gar-  ment,  and  the  nap  could  be  damaged  if  some  boob  started  rubbing  it  with  pum-  ice  or  whatever.)  Will  you,  hence,  arrange  to  have  your  delivery  boy  pick  up  the  suit  at  my  flat  any  time  next  Thursday  morn-  ing  after  nine-fifteen?  He'll  have  to  show  before  ten-twenty,  since  the  maid  leaves  on  the  dot  and  would  certainly  split  a  gusset  if  she  had  to  sit  around  ahot  apartment  waiting  for  a  delivery  boy.  (You  know  how  they  are,  Mr.  Merlin.)  Tell  the  boy  to  be  sure  and  take  the  right  suit;  it's  hanging  next  to  one  made  of  covert  cloth  with  diag-  onal  flap  pockets,  and  as  the  Vene-  tian  blinds  are  drawn,  he  could  easily  make  a  mistake  in  the  dark.  Flotilla,  the  maid,  is  new,  soI  think  I'd  better  ex-  plain  which  closet  to  look  in.  It's  in  the  hall,  on  his  right  when  he  stands  facing  the  bedroom  windows.  If  he  stands  fac-  ing  the  other  way,  naturally  it's  on  his  left.  The  main  thing,  tell  him,  is  not  to  get  rattled  and  look  in  the  closet  op-  posite,  because  there  may  bea  gabardine  suit  in  there,  without  pockets,  but  that  isn't  the  one  I  have  reference  to.  Should  Flotilla  have  gone,  the  visit-  ing  super  will  admityour  boy  to  the   flat  if  he  arrives  before  eleven;  other-  wise,  he  is  to  press  our  landlord's  bell  (Coopersmith),  in  the  next  building,  and  ask  them  for  the  key.  They  can't  very  well  give  it  to  him,  as  they're  in  Amalfi,  but  they  have  a  Yugoslav  wom-  an  dusting  for  them,  a  highly  intelligent  person,  to  whom  he  can  explain  the  situ-  ation.  This  woman  speaks  English.  After  the  suit  is  dry-cleaned-which,  I  repeat,  is  not  essential  if  you'll  only  brush  the  stain  with  a  little  moist  flan-  nel-make  certain  that  it  goes  into  cold  storage  at  once.  I  read  a  piece  in  the  newspaper  recentlythat  upset  me.  It  quoted  a  prominent  lady  in  your  profes-  sion,  a  Miss  Rose  Finkel,  to  the  effect  that  some  dry  cleaners  have  been  known  to  hang  such  orders  in  the  back  of  their  store.  You  and  I  have  had  such  a  long,  cordial  relationship,  Mr.  Merlin,  that  I  realize  you'd  never  do  anything  so  unethical,  but  I  just  thought  I'd  under-  score  it.  Incidentally,  and  since  I  know  what  the  temperature  in  your  shop  must  be  these  days,  let  me  pass  on  a  couple  of  hot-  weather  tips.  Eat  lots  of  curries-the  spicier  the  better-and  try  to  take  at  least  a  three-hour  siesta  in  the  middle  of  the  day.  I  learned  this  trick  in  496e646961,  where  Old  Sol  can  bea  cruel  taskmaster  indeed.  That's  also  the  place,  you'll  re-  call,  where  solari  cloth  used  to  get  abig  play  in  officers'  dress  uniforms.  Wears  like  iron,  if  you  don't  abuse  it,  With  every  good  wish,  Yours  sincerely,  S.  J.  PereEiman  NEw  York  Cry,  Jury  22  Dear  Mr.  PEaARLMAN:  I  got  your  letter  of  instructions  spell-  ing  everything  out,  and  was  happy  to  hear  what  a  glorious  vacation  you  are  enjoying  in  that  paradise.  I  only  hope  you  will  be  careful  to  not  run  any  fishhooks  in  your  hand,  or  step  in  the  undertow,  or  sun-  burn  yourbody  so  bad-  ly  you  lay  in  the  hospi-  tal.  These  troubles  I  personally  don't  have.  I  am  a  poor  man  with  a  wife  and  family  to  support,  not  like  some  people  with  stocks  and  bonds  that  they  can  sit  in  a  resort  all  sum-  mer  and  look  down  their  nose  at  the  rest  of  humanity.  Also  my  pressing  machine  was  out  of  commission  two  days  and  we  are short-     " b"handed.  Except  for  this,  everything  is  peaches  and  cream.  I  sent  the  boy  over  like  you  told  me  on  Thursday.  There  was  no  signof  the  maid,  but  for  your  information  he  found  a  note  under  the  door  saying  she  has  quit.  She  says  you  need  a  bulldozer,  not  a  servant,  and  the  pay  is  so  small  she  can  do  better  on  relief.  Your  landlady,  by  the  way,  is  back  from  Amalfi,  because  some  of  the  tenants,  she  didn't  name  names,  are  slow  with  the  rent.  She  let  the  boy  in  the  apartment,  and  while  he  was  finding  your  red  suit  she  checked  over  the  icebox  and  the  stove,  which  she  claims  are  very  greasy.  (I  am  not  criti-  cizing  your  housekeeping,  only  report-  ing  what  she  said.)  She  also  examined  the  mail  in  the  bureau  drawers  to  see  if  the  post  office  was  forwarding  your  bills,  urgent  telegrams,  etc.  I  don't  believe  in  telling  a  man  his  own  business.  Mine  is  dry  cleaning,  yours  I  don't  know  what,  but  you're  de-  ceiving  yourself  about  this  496e646961n  outfit  you  gave  us.  It  was  one  big  stain  from  top  to  bottom.  Maybe  you  leaned  up  against  the  stove  or  the  icebox?  (Just  kidding.)  The  plant  used  every  kind  of  solvent  they  hadon  it-benzine,  naph-  tha,  turpentine,  even  lighter  fluid-and  knocked  out  the  spots,  all  right,  but  I  warn  you  beforehand,  there  are  a  few  brownish  rings.  'The  lining  was  shot  to  begin  with,  so  that  will  be  no  surprise  to  you;  according  to  the  label,  you  had  the  suit  since  1944.  If  you  want  us  to  re-  place  same,  I  can  supply  a  first-class,  all-  satin  quarter  lining  for  $91.50,  work-  manship  included.  Finally,  buttons.  Some  of  my  beatnik  customers  wear  the  jacket  open  and  don't  need  them.  For  a  conservative  man  like  yourself,  I  would  advise  spending  another  eight  dollars.  As  regards  your  worry  about  hiding  cold-storage  articles  in  the  back  of  my  store,  I  am  not  now  nor  have  I  ever  been  a  chiseller,  and  I  defy  you  to  prove  different.  Every  season  like  clockwork,  I  get  one  crackpot  who  expects  me  to  be  Santa  Claus  and  haul  his  clothing  up  to  the  North  Pole  or  someplace.  My  motto  is  live  and  let  live,  which  it  certainly  is  not  this  Rose  Finkel's  to  go  around  de-  stroying  people's  confidence  in  their  dry  cleaner.  Who  is  she,  anyway?  I  had  one  of  these  experts  working  for  me  already,  in  1951,  that  nearly  put  me  in  the  hands  of  the  receivers.  She  told  a  good  custom-  er  of  ours,  an  artist  who  brought  in  some  hand-painted  ties  to  be  rainproofed,  to  save  his  money  and  throwthem  in  the  [REDACTED]  River.  To  a  client  that  showed  her  a  dinner  dress  with  a  smear  on  the  waist,  she  recommends  the  woman  should  go  buy  a  bib.  I  am  surprised  that  you,  a  high-school  graduate,  a  man  that   pretends  to  be  intelligent,  would  listen  to  such  poison.  But  in  this  business  you  meet  all  kinds.  Regards  to  the  Mrs.  Yours  truly,  S,  Meru  Gay  HrEap,  [REDACTED],  Jury  25  Dear  Mr.  Meruiin:  While  I'm  altogether  sympathetic  to  your  plight  and  fully  aware  that  your  shop's  an  inferno  at  the  moment-I  myself  am  wearing  an  imported  cash-  mere  sweater  as  I  write-I  must  say  you  misinterpreted  my  letter.  My  only  motive  in  relaying  Miss  Stricture's  finkels  (excuse  me,  the  strictures  of  Miss  Finkel)  on  the  subject  of  proper  cold  storage  was  concern  for  a  favorite  gar-  ment.  I  was  not  accusing  you  of  duplici-  ty,  and  I  refuse  to  share  the  opinion,  widespread  among  persons  who  deal  with  them  frequently,  that  most  dry  cleaners  are  crooks.  It  is  understand-  ably  somewhat  off-putting  to  hear  that  my  suit  arrived  at  your  establishment  in  ruinous  condition,  and,  to  be  devastat-  ingly  candid,  I  wonder  whether  your  boy  may  not  have  collided  with  a  soup  kitchen  in  transit.  But  each  of  us  must  answer  to  his  own  conscience,  Merlin,  and  I  am  ready,  if  less  than  overjoyed,  to  regard  yours  as  immaculate.  Answering  your  question  about  Miss  Finkel's  identity,  I  have  never  laid  eyes  on  her,  needless  to  say,  though  reason  dictates  that  if  a  distinguished  newspaper  like  the  Times  publishes  her  counsel,  she  must  be  an  authority.  Furthermore,  if  the  practice  of  withholding  clothes  from  cold  storage  were  uncommon,  why  would  she  have  broached  thesub-  ject  at  all?  No,  my  friend,  it  is  both  use-  less  and  ungenerous  of  you  to  attempt  to  undermine  Miss  Finkel.  From  the  way  you  lashed  out  at  her,  I  deduce  that  she  touched  you  on  the  raw,  in  a  most  vul-  nerable  area  of  our  relationship,  and  that  brings  me  to  the  core  of  this  com-  munication.  Nowhere  in  your  letter  is  there  any  direct  assertion  that  you  did  send  my  valuable  solari  suit  to  storage,  or,  correl-  atively,  that  you  are  not  hiding  it  in  the  back  of  the  store.  I  treasure  my  peace  of  mind  too  much  to  sit  up  here     " b"gnawed  by  anxiety.  I  must  therefore  demand  from  you  a  categorical  state-  ment  by  return  airmail  special  deliv-  ery.  Is  this  garment  in  your  posses-  sion  or  not?  Unless  a  definite  answer  is  forthcoming  within  forty-eight  hours,  I  shall  be  forced  to  take  action.  Yours  truly,  S.  J.  Perriman  NEw  York  Jury  27  Dear  Mr.  PEruEMaAN:  If  all  you  can  do  with  yourself  in  a  summer  place  is  hang  indoors  and  write  me  love  letters  about  Rose  Finkel,  I  must  say  I  have  pity  on  you.  Rose  Finkel,  Rose  Finkel-why  don't  you  marry  this  woman  that  you  are  so  crazy  about  her.  Then  she  could  clean  your  suits  at  home  and  stick  them  in  the  icebox-after  she  cleans  that,too.  W  hat  doyou  want  from  me?  Sometimes  I  think  I  am  walking  around  in  a  dream.  Look,  I  will  do  anything  you  say.  Should  I  parcel-post  the  suit  to  you  so  you  can  examine  it  under  a  microscope  for  holes?  Should  I  board  up  my  store,  give  the  help  a  week  free  vacation  in  the  mountains,  and  bring  it  to  you  personal-  ly  in  my  Cadillac:  I  tell  you  once,  twice,  a  million  times-it  went  to  cold  storage.  I  didn't  send  it  myself;  I  gave  orders  to  my  assistant,  which  she  has  been  in  my  employ  eleven  years.  From  her  I  have  no  secrets,  and  you  neither.  She  told  me  about  some  of  the  mail  she  found  in  your  pants.  It  is  quite  warm  here  today,  but  we  are  keeping  busy  and  don't  notice.  My  tailor  collapsed  last  night  with  heat  prostration,  so  I  am  handling  altera-  tions,  pressing,  ticketing,  and  hiding  customers'  property  in  the  back  of  the  store.  Also  looking  up  psychiatrists  in  the  Yellow  Pages.  Yours  truly,  S.  Mrrumw  Gay  HrEap,  [REDACTED],  Jury  29  Drar  Mr.  MEeruimn:  My  gravest  doubts  are  at  last  con-  firmed:  You  are  unable  to  say  unequiv-  ocally,  without  tergiversating,  that  you  saw  my  suit  put  into  cold  storage.  Knowing  full  well  that  the  apparel  was  irreplaceable,  now  that  the  British  Raj  has  been  supplanted-knowing  that  it  was  the  keystone  of  my  entire  ward-  robe,  the  sine  qua  non  of  sartorial  taste-  you  deliberately  entrusted  it  to  your  creature,  a  cat'spaw  who  you  admit  rifles  my  pockets  as  a  matter  of  rou-  tine.  Your  airy  disavowal  of  your  re-  sponsibility,  therefore,  leaves  me  with  but  one  alternative.  By  this  same  post,  \n\nI  am  delegating  a  close  friend  of  mine,  Irving  Wiesel,  to  visit  your  place  of  business  and  ferret  out  the  truth.  You  can  lay  your  cards  on  the  table  with  Wiesel  or  not,  as  you  see  fit.  When  he  finishes  with  you,  you  will  have  neither  cards  nor  table.  It  would  be  plainly  superfluous,  at  this  crucial  stage  in  our  association,  to  hark  back  to  such  petty  and  character-  istic  vandalism  as  your  penchant  for  jab-  bing  pins  into  my  rainwear,  pressing  buttons  halfway  through  lapels,  and  the  like.  If  I  pass  over  these  details  now,  however,  do  not  yield  to  exultation.  I  shall  expatiate  at  length  in  the  proper  surroundings;  viz.,  in  court.  Wishing  you  every  success  in  your  next  vocation,  Yours  truly,  S.  J.  NEw  York  CITY,  Aucusr  5  Dear  Mr.  PErcman:  I  hope  you  received  by  now  from  my  radiologist  the  two  X-rays;  he  printed  your  name  with  white  ink  on  the  ulcer  so  you  should  be  satisfied  that  you,  and  you  alone,  murdered  me.  I  wanted  him  to  print  also  &quot;Here  lies  an  honest  man  that  he  slaved  for  years  like  a  dog,  schlepped  through  rain  and  snow  to  put  bread  in  his  children's  mouths,  and  see  what  gratitude  a  customer  gave  him,&quot;  but  he  said  there  wasn't  room.  Are  you     -James  DickEy  satisfied  now,  you  Cossack  you?  Even  my  radiologist  is  on  your  side.  You  didn't  need  to  tell  me  in  advance  that  Wiesel  was  a  friendof  yours;  it  was  stamped  all  over  him  the  minute  he  walked  in  the  store.  Walked?  He  was  staggering  from  thehighballs  you  and  your  bohemian  cronies  bathe  in.  No  how-do-you-do,  explanations,  nothing.  Ran  like  a  hooligan  to  the  back  and  turned  the  whole  stock  upside  down,  pulled  everything  off  the  racks.  I  wouldn't  mind  he  wrecked  a  filing  sys-  tem  it  cost  me  hundreds  of  dollars  to  install.  Before  I  could  grab  the  man,  he  makes  a  beeline  for  the  dressing  room.So  put  yourself  fora  second  in  someone  else's  shoes.  A  young,  refined  matron  from  [REDACTED],  first  time  in  the  Village,  is  waiting  for  her  dress  to  be  spot-cleaned,  quietly  loafing  through  Harper's  Bazaar.  Suddenly  a  rough-  neck,  for  all  she  knows  a  plainclothes-  man,  a  junkie,  tearsaside  the  curtain.  Your  delegate  Wiesel.  I  am  not  going  to  soil  myself  by  call-  ing  you  names,  you  are  a  sick  man  and  besides  on  vacation,  so  will  make  you  a  proposition.  You  owe  me  for  cleaning  the  suit,  the  destruction  you  caused  in  my  racks,  medical  advice,  and  general  ag-  gravation.  I  owe  you  for  the  suit,  which  you  might  as  well  know  is  kaput.  The  cold-storage  people  called  me  this  morn-  ing.  It  seems  like  all  the  brownish  rings  in  the  material  fell  out  and  they  will  not  assume  responsibility  fora  sieve.  This  evens  up  everything  between  us,  and  I  trust  that  on  your  return  I  will  have  the  privilege  of  serving  you  and  family  as  in  years  past.  All  work  guaranteed,  invisible  weaving  our  specialty.  Please  remember  me  to  your  lovely  wife.  Sincerely  yours,  STANLEY  MERLIN "