CRUMP  ON  NVYINES  Crump,  a  venerable  history  scholar  and  my  tutor  at  Oxford  several  years  ago,  wisdom  was  less  a  matter  of  having  the  right  answers  than  of  knowing  the  right  questions.  Crump  (or  Crumpet,  as  he  was  sometimes  called,  on  account  of  his  habit  dur-  ing  tutorials  of  dipping  hot  buttered  crumpets  in  a  saucer  of  Bristol  Cream  sherry  )  was  something  of  a  connoisseur  of  wine.  He  was,  moreover,  an  excellent  teacher  of  the  oblique  school.  One  of  his  characteristics  was  to  spend  at  least  forty  minutes  of  our  weekly  hour-long  sessions  together  in  talking,  for  instance,  about  soil  erosion  in  [REDACTED],  the  effect  of  the  mistral  on  grapes  used  for  Ch&amp;-  teauneuf-du-Pape,  and  the  question  of  whether  or  not  the  troubadours  ever  got  anything  in  the  way  of  real  love  from  their  courtly  mistresses.  He  would  then  close  with  a  remark  like  &quot;And  there  you  begin  to  see  the  importance  of  the  Mar-  seille-49726171  trade  route,&quot;  which  was  intended  to  make  you  realize  that  he  had  been  talking  all  the  time  about  the  Moslem  factor  in  Charlemagne's  suc-  cess.  If,  after  this,  there  was  any  time  left,  he  might  ask  me  to  read  the  first  few  lines  of  my  weekly  essay,  but  as  the  weeks  passed  and  he  realized  that  the  first  few  lines  were  all  that  I  was  writ-  ing,  we  usually  spent  those  final  min-  utes  in  savoring  some  of  his  wine,  pon-  dering  its  qualities,  and  chatting  about  the  stock  market.  I  am  English,  but  I  had  been  in  [REDACTED]  as  a  child,  and  for  this  reason  Crump  somehow  re-  garded  me  as  an  expert  in  high  finance.  Thus,  when  the  phone  rang,  as  it  often  did  in  the  midst  of  his  discourse,  with  a  call  from  Dixon,  his  stockbroker  in  [REDACTED],  causing  Crump  to  adjourn  for  a  ten-minute  conversa-  tion  with  that  gentleman,  punctuated  by  an  occasional  munch  on  his  sherry-  soaked  crumpet,  he  would  now  and  again  throw  over  his  stooped  shoulder  a  remark  like  &quot;Dixon  is  fond  of  Alcoa  this  week.  What  do  you  think,  Bailey?&quot;  or  (covering  the  mouthpiece)  &quot;Did  you  hear  anything  about  United  Cereals  taking  a  sudden  drop  when  you  were  over  there?&quot;  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  had  oncebeen  shown  around  the  Stock  Exchange  while  visiting  in  New  York.  My  dim  memory  of  that  event,  together  with  a  little  hurried  reading  in  a  booklet  called  &quot;500  Top  Anglo-556e6974656420537461746573n  Shares,&quot;  generally  enabled  me  to  parry  and  sometimes  even  answer  Crump's  ques-  tions.  Yet,  in  the  last  analysis  (one  Q‘CCORDING  to  Dr.  James  Innes-  of  Crump's  phrases),  the  mechanics  of  stocks  and  shares  remained  arcane  for  me,  as  I  suspect  they  did  for  Crump  himself,  We  were  more  at  home  with  wine,  and  with  Sordello,  Peire  Vidal,  and  the  other  poets  of  [REDACTED].  I  THOUGHT  of  Crump  not  long  ago,  and  the  whole  business  of  hav-  ing  the  right  questions  came  at  once  to  the  fore.  The  occasion  was  my  reading  in  the  Times  that  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  wine  company  was  planning  to  invade  the  British  and  European  markets,  which,  to  quote  the  Times,  were  &quot;virgin  terri-  tory  as  far  as  556e6974656420537461746573n  wines  are  concerned.&quot;  Mr.  Otto  Meyer,  the  pres-  ident  of  Paul  Masson  Vineyards,  Sara-  toga,  [REDACTED],  had  announced  that  his  company  would  soon  open  a  sales  office  in  [REDACTED].  The  reasons  given  for  this  move  were  the  elimination  of  currency  restrictions,  the  fact  that  the  import  of  556e6974656420537461746573n-made  bourbon  had  been  per-  mitted,  a  survey  showing  that  wine  drinking  was  no  longer  exclusively  an  upper-class  habit  in  [REDACTED],  and,  final-  ly,  Mr.  Meyer's  opinion  that  many  Cali-  fornia  wines  are  as  good  as  or  better  than  many  European  wines,  a  belief  that  Crump,  at  the  moment  of  sampling  an  Albanian  wis  ordinaire  I  had  discovered,  might  well  have  agreed  with.  What  is  more,  Mr.  Meyer  said,  [REDACTED]  wines  don't  vary  in  quality  from  vintage  to  vintage,  because  northern  [REDACTED]  climatic  conditions  are  always  pretty  much  the  same.  All  well  and  good,  you  might  think,  and  I  would  agree  that  [REDACTED]  seems  the  ideal  spot  for  a  Masson  Weinkrieg.  Political  events  like  the  Norman  Conquest,  which  bound  the  nation  closer  to  [REDACTED],  and  Henry  VIII's  dissolution  of  the  monasteries,  which  stamped  down  many  monkish  grape  arbors,  have  made  Eng-  land  dependent  on  foreign  wines.  More  wine  is  now  drunk  in  [REDACTED]  than  ever  before.  ('The  statistics  I  have  avail-  able  do  not,  of  course,  include  the  con-  sumption  of  such  native  beverages  as  wirtleberry,  dandelion,  or  stinging-net-  tle  wine.)  The  Masson  prospects  look  especially  good  if  one  considers  Ameri-  can  products  like  tobacco  and  ham-  burgers,  both  of  which  have  gone  over  splendidly  in  the  mother  country.  On  the  other  hand,  there  may  be  difficulties,  and  it  seems  to  me  that  a  certain  pre-  cautionary  study  should  be  made.  For  the  benefit  of  Masson,  therefore,  and  bearing  in  mind  that,  according  to  Crump,  the  important  thing  is  to  know   the  right  questions,  I  shall  endeavor  to  ask  them  here.  QuEsrION  1:  Where  in  [REDACTED]  should  we  start  our  sales  drive?  Answer:  Oxford.  Because  it  is  not,  as  legend  has  it,  simply  the  home  of  lost  causes  but  the  place  where  many  causes  met  their  original  success.  It  was  in  Ox-  ford,  in  1555,  on  the  pyre,  that  Hugh  Latlmer  said  in  effect  to  Nicholas  Rid-  ley  that  they  would  light  a  fire  this  day  in  [REDACTED]  &quot;as  I  trust  shall  never  be  put  out.&quot;  While  I  was  at  the  Univer-  sity,  many  outfits  lit  fires  in  Oxford,  on  the  premise  that  what  the  young  men  at  the  University  take  up  today  all  of  Eng-  land  will  be  taking  up  tomorrow.  One  of  these  outfits  was  a  cocoa-candy-and-  chocolate  concern  whose  officials  seized  on  Oxford  as  the  spot  where  they  would  start  their  campaign  to  install  hot  choco-  late  as  a  national  drink,  fourth  only  to  beer,  tea,  and  soda  pop.  Their  first  point  of  attack  was  the  gossip  columnist  of  the  University  magazine,  a  fellow  named  Jules  Zavadsky.  Zavadsky  re-  ceived  a  case  of  Veuve  Clicquot.  Within  the  week,  every  other  party  he  reported  in  his  column  was  a  hot-chocolate  affair.  A  Rothschild  was  said  to  have  given  one,  the  Honourable  Dickie  Smithers  actually  did  give  one,  and  it  was  even  alleged  that  Crump  had  taken  to  dunk-  ing  his  crumpets  in  the  stuff.  'This  was  not  true.  Still,  hot  chocolate  did  go  over  spectacularly,  and  quite  a  few  people  I  knew  gave  up  tea  and  coffee  for  a  while  in  favor  of  it.  Chocolate,  like  Califor-  nia  wine,  doesn't  change  from  year  to  year.  QuEsrton  2:  Do  you  then  guaran-  tee  our  success  if  we  begin  by  plugging  Masson  wines  in  Oxford?  ANswER:  No.  In  fact,  come  to  think  of  it,  shortly  after  the  initial  suc-  cess  of  hot  chocolate,  ata  time  when  its  use  was  spreading  to  [REDACTED]  and  even  to  [REDACTED],  another  drink  was  tried  out  amid  the  towers  and  spires.  I  refer  to  mead.  Mead,  as  you  may  know,  is  made  from  fermented  honey  and  water.  It  is  a  drink  with  a  long  history,  with  a  prehistory,  in  fact,  but  it  went  out  of  fashion  when  wine  and  beer  came  in.  At  the  meadworks  in  Cornwall,  how-  ever,  things  continued  to  buzz,  and  dur-  ing  my  second  year  at  Oxford,  after  part-time  production  for  five  or  six  cen-  turies,  the  makers  decided  the  time  had  come  to  put  mead  back  in  the  English  drinking  picture.  I  vividly  recall  the  day  I  walked  into  an  Oxford  liquor  shop,  wondering  whether  my  funds  would  stretch  to  a  bottle  of  [REDACTED]  African  pale  dry  sherry  (since  boycotted  by  Oxford  students  because  of  [REDACTED]  African  racial  policies)  or  perhaps  some  Chilean  Riesling,  and  had  my  attention  drawn  to  a  counter  display  by  the  clerk.  &quot;'Ow  abowt  one  of  these,  sir?&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Mead-back  in  supply  again.&quot;  He  sounded  as  if  it  had  been  subject  to  wartime  rationing.  There  were,  the  clerk  pointed  out,  meads  for  every  taste-a  mead  like  sherry,  a  mead  like  table  wine,  a  mead  like  port,  and  a  mead  liqueur.  The  price  was  reasonable.  I  purchased  a  bottle  of  the  sherry-style  mead,  as  much  with  the  idea  of  showing  it  to  Crump  as  of  drink-  ing  it.  Crump's  reaction  was  disappoint-  ing.  He  spent  most  of  the  tutorial  that  day  in  talking  about  the  effect  on  the  Spanish  Armada  produced  by  Drake  when,  a  few  months  before  the  Armada  sailed,  he  intercepted  a  ship  andburned  its  cargo  of  barrel  staves,  intended  for  the  casks  that  would  hold  the  fleet's  water  supply.  In  getting  new  staves,  the  Spaniards  were  forced  to  use  green  wood.  As  a  result,  the  casks  soon  rotted  and  the  water  went  bad.  Then  Dixon,  the  stockbroker,  called,  and  Crump,  who  had  been  toying  with  a  glass  of  mead  all  this  while,  poured  it  on  his  crumpet.  When  he  put  down  the  phone,  the  crumpet  was  cold,  so  he  pierced  it  with  a  toasting  fork  and  held  it  in  front  of  his  coal  fire.  The  crumpet  burst  into  flames.  This  so  startled  theold  don  that  he  asked  me  to  read  my  essay.  Mead,  so  far  asI  know,  did  not  catch  on.  QuzEstrION  3:  In  that  case,  would  you  say  that  Masson  wines,  not  having,  like  mead,  either  a  long  history  ora  short  shipping  distance,  are  up  against  it?  AnswER:  Not  necessarily.  Remem-  ber  bourbon,  which  is  now  allowed  into  [REDACTED].  Of  course,  bourbon  is  no  wine,  but  itis  556e6974656420537461746573n,  and  therefore  an  apt  example  for  Masson.  It  faced  the  prob-  lem  of  currency  and  trade  restrictions,  and  also  a  more  serious  handicap-not  being  generally  available,  it  had  become  almost  exclusively  the  possession  of  556e6974656420537461746573ns  in  [REDACTED].  'There  was  the  danger  that  many  Englishmen  had  re-  sorted  to  that  extreme  of  jealousy  which  is  a  sort  of  bitter  reserve,  saying,  &quot;Well,  if  we  can't  get  hold  of  it,  it  must  be  frightful  stuff.&quot;  I  admit  that  this  was  rather  my  feeling  before  I  was  intro-  duced  to  it,  on  a  Paddington-to-Oxford  train  one  Monday  afternoon.  I  had  not  let  Crump  know,  as  college  regulations  demanded,  that  I  was  going  to  [REDACTED]  forthe  weekend.  The  train  I  took  back,  however,  was  due  to  arrive  in  Oxford  at  an  afternoon  hour  that  would  leave  me  enough  time  to  return  to  college,  throw  on  my  scholar's  gown  over  my  jacket,  and  dash  to  his  rooms  for  our  session.  I  had  intended,  moreover,  to spend  the  train  ride  in  reading  a  book  on  the  growth  of  the  medieval  city,  so  that  I  would  be  able  to  ad-lib  several  paragraphs  of  my  weekly  essay  if  the  need  arose.  Unhappily,  as  far  as  that  project  was  concerned,  my  compart-  ment  was  invaded  by  three  556e6974656420537461746573n  airmen.  Climbing  in  just  as  the  train  jolted  forward,  they  leaned  from  the  window  and  shouted  and  waved  to  someone  called  variously  Honey,  Rosie,  and  Bye-Bye  Baby,  whom  they  were  leaving  on  the  platform.  Then,  with  a  brief  look  at  me  to  see  if  I  were  sympa-  thetic,  one  of  them,  a  master  sergeant,  opened  a  tartan  grip  and  dug  out  a  bot-  tle  of  Old  Crow.  By  Reading,  the  first  stop,  it  was  hands-across-the-sea.  By  Didcot,  where  the  train  halted  for  ten  minutes,  I  was  encouraging  the  excava-  tion  of  a  second  bottle.  And  by  5:05,  when  a  taxi  dropped  me  outside  the  col-  lege  gate,  I  was  hooked.  What  happened  during  the  ensuing  hour  Crump  never  told  me,  but  I  had  a  vague  impression  that  I  did  a  great  deal  of  talking,  that  he,for  once,  did  little,  and  that  the  college  porter  was  sent  for  and  came  and  went  and  came  again  with  a  bottle  (got  through  his  nephew,  I  later  heard,  who  worked  at  the  Amer-  ican  base  at  Brize  Norton).  What-  ever  the  source,  bourbon,  I  understand,  was  thereafter  obtainable  in  the  Senior  Common  Room.  I  had  a  postcard  from  Crump  last  Christmas,  in  fact,  and  he  mentioned  that  the  Fellows  of  the  Col-  lege  had  given  him  a  mint-julep  party  to  celebrate  his  fortieth  year  in  residence.  QuEsTION  4:  Are  Dr.  James  Innes-  Crump's  services  as  a  consultant  avail-  able  to  556e6974656420537461746573n  companies  wishing  to  explore  the  British  wine  market?  Answer:  This  is  doubtful.  For  many  years,  Crump  has  been  a  consultant  or  advisory  editor  to  the  Journal  of  MedievalMaritime  Historiography.  He  was  formerly  on  the  boards  of  several  companies,  but  he  resigned  when  one  of  them,  in  which  he  was  heavily  invested,  went  broke  after  the  bottom  fell  out  of  Australian  port.  Later  on,  he  was  asked  to  endorse,  for  advertising  purposes,  the  statement  &quot;Bunyan's  Crumpets  Are  the  Yummiest.&quot;  I  gather  that  he  there-  after  severed  all  connections  with  the  commercial  world,  save  through  his  stockbroker  and  the  experiences  of  his  students.  You  could,  I  suppose,  ap-  proach  him-he  might  be  prevailed  up-  on.  But  you  would  have  to  take  a  con-  siderable  chance  on  his  helpfulness.  The  advice  he  would  give  you  might  seem  to  deal  with  medieval  architecture,  the  stock  market,  King  John's  tax  laws-  with  anything,  in  fact,  but  the  subject  of  wines. 