 b"EXPLAINING  that  he  wished       to  walk  home  across  the  fields,  Hugh  Whiting  left  his  suitcase  at  the  station,  to  be  picked  up  later  in  the  day.  &quot;Didn't  think  to  see  you  back  so  soon,&quot;  said  the  ticket  agent,  who  four  hours  earlier  had  issued  him  a  return  ticket  to  [REDACTED]  and  watched  him  board  a  local  train.  &quot;Hope  nothing's  wrong,  sir.&quot;  &quot;'Nothing  at  all,  Parker.  I  changed  my  mind.  Silly  to  go  to  [REDACTED]  on  a  day  like  this.&quot;  The  words  made  Parker  more  con-  scious  of  the  warm  air,  the  blue  sky.  He  strolled  to  the  doorway  and  watched  Mr.  Whiting  go  down  the  road  and  turn  off  into  a  grassy  track,  walking  with  an  easy  rhythmical  stride.  'The  young  porter  came  out  to  see  what  Parker  was  looking  at.  &quot;Pretty  good  for  a  man  of  his  age,&quot;  said  Parker,  as  if  he  took  pride  in  it.  &quot;Regular  old  bachelor,  isn't  he?&quot;  &quot;Bachelor  in  his  way,  may  be.  He  was  married  when  he  came  here  first.  But  she  died.  He  went  away  for  a  cou-  ple  of  years,  then  he  came  back  to  Badknocks,  and  there  he's  lived  ever  since.&quot;  The  track  led  to  a  group  of  farm  buildings,  where  the  footpath  branched  off  through  the  fields.  They  were  bean-  fields,  and  fields  of  standing  hay.  The  beans  had  just  come  into  bloom.  The  clusters  of  black-and-  white  flowers  gave  out  a  smell  like  thatof  lilies,  but  with  a  lighter  sweetness.  Oboe,  Hugh  thought,  not  clarinet.  The  distinction  had  occurred  to  him  many  years  be-  fore,  and  every  summer  recurred.  He  was  a  composer-eminent  rather  than  well  known.  The  course  of  time  that  had  made  him  eminent  had  also  made  him  some-  what  out  of  date.  The  reason  he  had  packed  the  suitcase  and  taken  the  ticket  for  [REDACTED]  was  that  that  same  afternoon  the  Ferra-  bosco  Society  was  performing  a  seventeenth-century  masque  he  had  orchestrated  for  them.  A  meeting  of  the  Advisory  Commit-  tee  would  follow,  and  afterward  he  was  to  dine  and  sleep  at  Adela  Turpin's  flat,  where  he  would  find  Humphrey  Dudgeon,  whose  opera  on  Hannibal  was  in  rehearsal  for  the  Aldeburgh  Festival.  If  he  had  not  made  that  silly  joke-  One  should  never  make  jokes  on  the  telephone;  the  acoustics  aren't  right  for  it.  To  his  inquiry  how  a  sufficiency  of  elephants  could  be  got  onto  that  small  stage  Adela  had  replied,  &quot;But  it's  opere  de  camera,  darling!&quot;  Thoughts  of  this,  and  of  the  Advisory  Committee,  where  Hilda  Carpentras  would  repeat  that  the  cello  is  no  real  substitute  for  the  viola  da  gamba  and  everyone  would  snub  old  Jones,  assailed  him  even  before  his  local  train  reached  its  first  stop.  By  the  time  it  had  got  him  to  the  main-line  junction,  he  had  turned  from  stoicism  to  opportunism,  telling  himself,  as  he  walked  up  and  down  the  platform,  that  if  he  had  stayed  at  home  a  senseof  duty  would  have  teased  him  into  do-  ing  something  about  Mrs.  Pilkington's  Mass,  a  commission  he  had  spent  the  lastsix  months  in  wishing  he  had  never  accepted.  If  the  [REDACTED]  train  had  not  been  late,  presumably  he  would  have  got  into  it.  But  it  was  late.  This  was  the  last  straw,  and  he  clutched  it.  He  sent  off  telegrams  of  apology,  ate  some  buffet  sandwiches,  and  when  the  localtrain  came  in,  which  it  did  with  exact  punctuality,  he  returned  by  it.  Now  he  was  walk-  ing  through  the  smell  of  bean  flowers,  which  would  not  have  happened  if  he  had  not  set  out  for  [REDACTED].  And  to-  night  he  would  lie  down  in  his  four-  poster  bed  with  the  quickened  appre-  ciation  of  knowing  how  nearly  it  had  been  exchanged  for  a  skimpy  divan  in  Hampstead.  He  reached  the  summit  of  a  gentle  rise  and  looked  down,  like  a  returning  Ulysses,  on  the  landscape  that  had  been  his  for  so  many  years.  He  could  see  his  ilexes  but  not  the  house  itself.  A  tune  that  came  to  him  long  ago  and  had  associated  itself  with  this  first  view  of  the  ilexes  resumed  its  easy  hold  on  him.  It  wasn't  much  of  a  tune,  and  he  had  never  made  anything  of  it,  but  at  this  point  of  the  walk  it  would  come  up  and  link  arms  with  him,  as  though  it  had  waited  to  meet  him  there,  and  for  the  rest  of  the  way  would  accompany  him,  step  for  step.  He  was  grateful  for  its  company,  for  he  was  wearing  his  town  shoes,  and  by  the  time  the  path  brought  him  into  the  lane  they  were  hurting  his  feet.  The  rope-soled  shoes  he  gardened  in  lay  in  the  porch,  and  sitting  down  on  his  doorstep  he  changed  into  them.  Then  he  tried  the  door.  It  was  locked.  Audrey,  excellent  creature,  had  finished  her  cleaning  and  gone  home.  He  let  himself  in.  Audrey  had  closed  all  the  windows  but  left  the  inner  doors  open,  so  that  the  air  should  circulate.  He  saw  that  everything  was  just  as  he'd  left  it,  just  as  it  should  be.  All  he  had  to  do  was  to  go  round  and  open  the  windows.  But  first  he  must  get  rid  of  those  shoes.  He  could  not  put  them  down  on  any-  thing  in  the  passage,  for  there  was  noth-  ing  to  put  them  down  on.  Julia  had  said,  &quot;Let  us  leave  the  passage  just  as  it  was,  so  that  there  will  always  be  something  to  remind  us  of  how  we  felt  when  we  first  walked  in.&quot;  And  the  passage  had  remained  just  as  it  was,  with  the  row  of  pegs,  and  the  wallpaper  of  gaudy  roses  on  the  low  ceiling,  under  which  her  coffin  had  been  carried  out.  Holding  his  shoes  he  went  upstairs  and  into  the  bed-  room.  A  man  and  a  girl  were  lying  asleep  on  the  fourposter  bed.  The  girl  was  Audrey.  She  lay  on  her  back  with  her  mouth  half  open.  Theman  lay  sprawled  across  her,  with  his  head  on  her  breast.  Their  lovemaking  had  cast  them  into  so  deep  a  sleep  that  neither  of  them  stirred.  Ugly,  and  dishev-  elled,  and  disquietingly  life-size,  they  had  nothing  beautiful  about  them-only  a  nobility  of  being  completely  unaware.  Hugh  was  halfway  down  the  stairs  before  he  realized  that  the  man's  face  was  known  to  him.  It  was  the  face  of  the  Rural  District  Council's  rodent  officer,  astocky  young  man  who  from  time  to  time  " b'came  to  the  door  offering  to  put  down  rat  poison,  and  whom  he  as  often  turned  away.  But  as  he  had  never  before  seen  him  half  naked  and  asleep,  the  recogni-  tion  had  been  delayed.  Now  his  laggard  fury  exploded.  It  was  the  outrage  com-  mitted  against  his  bed  that  angered  him.  His  bed,  his  honorable  lonely  bed,  had  been  dishonored,  like  a  Shakespearean  bed.  And  by  a  rodent  officer!  If  it  had  been  a  plain  ratcatcher  he  could  have  laughed  it  off,  so  much  are  we  at  the  mercy  of  a  word.  But  a  rodent  officer  had  usurped  his  bed,  and  he  felt  ready  to  roar  like  Othello.  The  flare  of  rage,  with  no  action  to  feed  on,  quivered  out,  and  left  him  to  grope  between  desolation  and  embar-  rassment.  With  the  pleasure  of  return  torn  from  him,  and  made  an  interloper  in  his  own  house,  he  stood  there,  still  clasping  the  pair  of  shoes,  and  could  have  wept  over  his  disappointment.  But  if  you  are  an  old  man,  and  employ  a  young  woman  to  scrub  your  floors  with  her  strong  red  arms  and  her  willing  nature,  and  go  off  on  a  summer\'s  morn-  ing  and  return  unlooked  for,  you  have  no  one  but  yourself  to  blame  if  your  return  is  not  what  you  expected  of  it.  N  his  desk  lay  the  canzone  for  con-  tralto  and  two  bassoons,  and  in  the  kitchen  was  the  coffeepot.  But  there  was  nothing  for  it;  unfortunate  righteous  householder  that  he  was,  he  must  creep  away  like  a  criminal  and  leave  an  un-  troubled  exit  for  the  lovers.  Since  the  shoes  could  not  be  left,  mutely  accusing,  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs,  he  stepped  cau-  tiously  into  the  sitting  room,  where  they  could  be  concealed  under  the  sofa;  and  at  the  same  moment,  as  though  he  had  provoked  it,  there  was  a  vague  languish-  ing  sound  overhead,  a  yawn  that  shaped  itself  into  an  endearment-Audrey  waking  to  herrodent  officer.  He  thrust  the  shoes  under  the  valance  and  stole  out  of  the  house  and  down  the  path,  glancing  guiltily  from  side  to  side.  But  there  was  no  one  in  sight,  to  betray  him  by  bursting  into  conversation.  Still  undecided  where  to  shelter  himself,  he  turned  down  the  lane,  past  the  pond  and  Mr.  Duke\'s  barn  and  the  milestone,  past  all  the  things  he  had  noticed  with  tem-  porary  leave-taking  when  the  taxi  drove  him  to  the  station  that  morning.  One  thing  had  become  quite  certain.  He  would  resign  from  the  Ferrabosco  So-  ciety.  If  it  had  not  been  for  that  inept  organization  he  would  not  now  be  wan-  dering  comfortless,  and  driven  into  the  embraces  of  a  bramble  patch  because  an  approaching  car  was  too  wide  for  the  lane.  As  it  passed  him,  it  slowed  down.  It  stopped.  A  voice  said,  &quot;Isn\'t  that  you,  Mr. Whiting?" A man and a woman got out and bore down on him, the woman saying "I knew it was you. I never forget a face. I\'m Candida Pilkington, you remember, and this is my husband. We\'re touring [REDACTED], and we thought we\'d call in on you to ask how my Mass is getting along. How lucky to catch you." "Very lucky," Hugh said. So it was, in a sense; very lucky for the pair slumbering in his fourposter bed. "Particularly lucky for me," he added. "I\'m on my way back to the church, and now you will be able to give me a lift." He had not the slightest idea what was to be done with them, but at least he could show them the church. They were papists, but that was no reason why they should not conform with the decent customs of [REDACTED], one of\n\n\n\nwhich  is  church-showing.  He  must  also  show  them  who  was  master.  So  he  watched  them  turning  the  car,  with  out  essaying  helpfulness,  and  when  they  had  finally  done  so  he  got  inas  though  he  were  accustomed  to  bestow-  ing  these  little  favors.  &quot;  Are  you  havin  g  a  music  fes  tival?&quot;  Mrs.  Pilkingt  on\'s  manne  r  indicated  a  matching  readiness  to  bestow  little  fa-  vors.  &quot;I  do  think  it\'s  such  a  step  for-  wa  rd,  using  your  Anglican  churches  for  festivals.  Poor  things!&quot;  &quot;Ours  i  s  a  very  small  church.  Turn  to  the  right.&quot;  *All  over  pews,  too,  I  suppose.  Those  fatal  pews!  Now,  i  n  [REDACTED]-&quot;  &quot;\'Take  care  of  that  dog!  It\'s  de  af.  Personally,  I\'m  in  favor  of  pews.  Peo-  ple  must  sit  down  somewhere.&quot;  The  dog  was  bearing  this  out.  Mr.  Pilkington  halted,  sounded  his  h  orn,  and  then  said  to  himse  l  f  in  a  sub  du  ed  way,  &quot;Silly  of  me,  of  course.&quot;  \'The  money  was  his,  as  well  as  the  wife,  poor  wretched  man,  Hugh  thought.  &quot;It\'s  a  very  old  dog,&quot;  he  went  on.  &quot;And  being  old,  it  has  not  much  to  be  interested  in  except  its  fleas.  So  I  daresay  we  shall  be  here  for  some  time.  Tell  me  about  [REDACTED].&quot;  ' b"[REDACTED]  and  the  dog  accounted  for  nearly  ten  minutes.  Ten  minutes  would  seem  no  time  at  all  to  Audrey  and  her  lover.  Allowing  them,  say,  another  hour  for  dalliance  and  fond  farewells,  and  adding  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  that,  to  keep  on  the  safe  side,  and  sub-  tracting  [REDACTED]  and  the  dog,  one  hour  and  five  minutes  must  somehow  be  disposed  of  before  he  could  invite  the  Pilkingtons  to  his  house.  ...  Stay!  Au-  drey,  warmhearted  and  domesticated,  would  certainly  give  the  rodent  officer  tea.  Two  hours  and  five  minutes.  The  hour  was  now  three-forty-five.  By  six  he  might  call  Badknocks  his  own  again.  ..  .  But,  no,  not  at  all!  There  was  the  six-o'clock  news  broadcast  to  be  reck-  oned  with;  the  rodent  officer  would  scarcely  leave  before  he  had  heard  the  cricket  results.  Cricket  results  and  fond  farewells.  ...  Better  say  six-thirty.  &quot;Harold!  Why  don't  you  get  out  and  move  that  dog?  I  can  see  Mr.  Whiting  is  worrying  about  the  time.&quot;  If  he  had  said  he  was  going  to  the  vil-  lage  he  could  have  made  something  of  this.  But  he  had  committed  himself  to  the  church,  and  so  must  do  what  he  could  with  it.  The  church  had  much  to  offer.  They  might  look  through  the  burial  register  for  Pilkingtons.  Or  a  no-  tice  about  swine  fever  in  the  porch  might  lead  to  a  visit  to  Paigle  Farm,  where  Mrs.  Duke  would  give  them  tea.  s  ERE  we  are.  I  don't  suppose  I  shall  be  long.  Perhaps  you'd  rather  wait  outside?&quot;  This  was  mere  hopeful  foolishness,  since  he  felt  assured  that  nothing  would  prevent  Mrs.  Pilkington  from  coming  into  the  church  in  order  to  animadvert  on  its  deficiencies.  'There  was  nothing  about  swine  fever,  so  he  showed  them  in.  &quot;If  I  were  to  be  taken  into  a  church  blindfolded,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;I  should  know  from  the  moment  I  was  inside  what  form  of  faith-&quot;  [REDACTED]  little  church,&quot;  interposed  Mr.  Pilkington.  &quot;So  should  I,&quot;  said  Hugh,  with  blandness.  After  a  slight  pause,  Mrs.  Pilkington  observed,  &quot;I  can't  see  why  you  shouldn't  have  a  festival  here,  Mr.  Whiting.  It's  quite  large  enough.  Too  large  for  the  congregation,  I've  no  doubt.&quot;  &quot;We  might  talk  about  that.  But  first  " b"of  all,  I've  got  to  measure  some  organ  pipes.  Where  would  you  like  to  sit?&quot;  One  should  never  go  out  without  a  piece  of  string  in  one's  pocket.  Hugh  never  did,  and  now  he  furtively  tied  some  knots  in  it.  When  he  had  meas-  ured  a  rank  of  visible  pipes  and  scribbled  on  a  piece  of  paper,  he  called  out  en-  couragingly  that  now  he  was  going  on  to  the  diapasons.  Secluding  himself  in  the  usual  organist's  den  behind  the  or-  gan  case,  he  spent  the  next  half  hour  reading  &quot;Thirty-Two  Voluntaries  by  Caleb  Simper,&quot;  which  work  he  found  there.  He  read  with  professional  atten-  tion,  coming  to  the  conclusion  that  Sim-  per  missed  alot  of  opportunities.  Another  expedient  suggested  itself  to  him.  &quot;Well,  that's  over,&quot;  he  saidas  he  emerged  from  behind  the  organ  case.  &quot;I'm  sorry  if  I  kept  you  waiting,  but  one  can't  hurry  over  these  things.  Now,  since  I've  got  you  here,  I'll  take  you  up  on  the  tower.&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Whiting,  that-&quot;  The  tower  door  was  locked.  &quot;I  ex-  pect  the  key's  in  the  vestry,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I  won't  keep  you  a  moment.&quot;  &quot;-there  are  one  or  two  little  sug-  gestions  I'd  like  to  make,&quot;  Mrs.  Pil-  kington  went  on.  She'd  like  to  make  suggestions,  would  she?  Disregarding  the  woman,  he  hur-  ried  into  the  vestry.  A  bunch  of  keys  was  rather  imperfectly  concealed  be-  hind  a  fire  extinguisher,  and  probably  one  or  other  of  them  would  fit  the  tower  door;  but  this  was  of  less  importance  now,  since  a  far  fruitfuler  and  more  congenial  expedient  had  met  his  eye.  He  returned,  jingling  the  keys.  &quot;One  or  two  little  suggestions,  Mr.  Whiting,&quot;  Mrs.  Pilkington  repeated.  He  began  trying  the  keys.  &quot;About  my  Mass.&quot;  My  Mass,  indeed!  The  fourth  key  turned  the  lock.  The  opened  door  dis-  closed  a  narrow  cascade  of  stens,  with  a  dead  rook  lying  on  one  of  them.  &quot;Harold  has  no  head  for  heights,&quot;  Mrs.  Pilkington  said.  Hugh  had  no  stomach  for  dead  rooks,  and  found  he  could  temper  justice  with  mercy.  He  locked  the  door,  and  waved  the  Pilkingtons  into  a  pew,  and  leant  against  a  pillar,  looking  down  on  them-which  he  could  do  handsomely,  since  he  was  both  long  and  lean.  &quot;I  am  proposing  to  write  this  Noss  strictly  &amp;  capella,  Mrs.  Pilkington.  It  will  be  for  five  voices.&quot;  &quot;Why,  we've  got  more  than  that,  I  can  assure  you.  Sneckheaton  is  a  very  musical  neighborhood  and  there  isn't  much  our  choir  won't  undertake.&quot;  before  youdo  &quot;Five  vocal  parts.  The  number  of  voices  singing  a  part  is  more  or  less  immaterial,  provided  there  is  a  proper  balance  oftone.I  hope  your  tenors  are  under  control.  North  Country  tenors  are  apt  to  be  ag-  gressive.&quot;  This  was  a  mistake,  for  by  in-  censing  Mrs.  Pilkington's  racial  loyalty  he  renewed  her  determina-  tion  to  make  that  Mass  her  own.  A  sort  ofsolo  for  Jimmy  Rawson,  who  could  have  sung  in  opera  only  he  wouldn't  leave  his  mother,  was  one  of  the  suggestions  she  had  at  heart;  another  was  places  where  the  con-  gregation  could  join  in;  another  that  Hosannas  should  be  sung,  pramssimo,  by  asmall  body  of  trebles  in  the  loft,  to  bear  out  the  sense  of  in  excelsis.  &quot;And  what  was  the  last  thing?  I  know  it  was  very  important.  Harold,  what  was  the  last  thing?  Oh  yes,I  remember.  Et  in  unam  ecclesiam.  Mr.  Whiting,  I  want  that  section  to  be  all  in  unison,  and  thoroughly  emphatic.  I  want  it  to  stand  out,  with  a  real  broad,  compelling  mel-  ody;  for,  asI  see  it,  that's  one  of  the  vital  spots  in  the  creed,  and  we  can't  make  too  much  of  it.&quot;  There  was  this  to  be  said  for  her  sug-  gestions,  Whiting  thought:  they  helped  to  pass  the  time.  By  now  Audrey  might  be  thinking  about  tea.  He  was.  &quot;Well,&quot;  he  said  briskly.  &quot;If  you'll  come  into  the  vestry  I  will  give  you  an  idea  of  the  music  I  have  in  mind-on  the  harmonium.&quot;  &quot;On  a  harmonium?&quot;  &quot;A  harmonium.&quot;  &quot;But  why  can't  you  play  it  on  the  organ?  Can't  you  play  the  organ?&quot;  &quot;I  prefer  the  harmonium  for  a  ce-  pella.&quot;  The  vestry  faced  north.  It  smelled  of  mice,  paraffin,  and  ink.  When  Hugh  opened  the  harmonium,  a  cloud  of  dis-  pirited  dust  rose  slowly  into  the  air,  and  when  he  tried  the  pedals,  asmell  of  moldy  leather  was  exhaled.  He  eyed  the  stops.  Diapason,  reed,  bourdon,  du/-  ciana.  He  pulled  out  dulciana,  and  the  knob  fell  off  in  his  hand.  But  it  was  a  game  old  instrument,  and  came  snoring  and  tottering  back  to  life  under  the  easy  rhythmical  tread  that  Mr.  Parker  had  admired  earlier  that  afternoon.  &quot;Are  you  comfortably  settled?  Good!  Now  we'll  begin.  Kyrie  eleison.&quot;  For  the  next  forty  minutes,  he  ex-  temporized  in  the  key  of  G,  drawing  freely  on  Caleb  Simper  for  his  material,  but  chastening  it.  At  intervals,  he  cast  them  a  guiding  word,  or  drew  their  at-  tention  to  a  canon  at  the  octave.  His  guiding  cry  of  Et  expecto  was  answered  by  a  snore  from  Mr.  Pilkington,  who     from  then  on  snored  as  methodically  as  a  ground  bass.  The  harmonium  also  threw  in  some  touches  of  its  own,  not  so  easily  reconciled  with  strict  a  cepelle  style  as  Mr.  Pilkington's  snores;  but  in  the  main  it  answered  to  the  helm.  As  for  Mrs.  Pilkington,  she  stayed  mute  as  a  mousetrap.  I  wonder  what  she's  hatching,  Hugh  thought.  He  also  wondered  how  much  longer  his  ankles  would  hold  out,  for  the  bellows  demanded  a  discreetly  ad-  justed  supply  of  wind,  and  discretion  is  a  much  greater  tax  on  the  ankles  than  fervor.  Wondering  about  his  ankles,  and  Mrs.  Pilkington,  and  how  Audrey  and  the  rodent  officer  were  getting  on,  he  allowed  his  attention  to  stray  from  Caleb  Simper  and  engage  itself  with  Hugh  Whiting,  whose  demands  presently  be-  came  rather  engrossing  and  led  him  into  the  mixolydian  mode  and  a  five-  four  measure.  Here  a  passage  seemed  to  him  so  interesting  that  he  paused  to  memorize  it.  &quot;And  is  that  the  end?&quot;  As  she  spoke,  Mr.  Pilkington  sus-  pended  his  ground  bass.  'T  hat  is  the  end.&quot;  &quot;Oh.  You  didn't  say  so.&quot;  He  replaced  the  knob  on  dulciana  and  closed  the  harmonium,  giving  it,  since  he  couldn't  treat  it  to  a  bran  mash,  a  grateful  pat.  &quot;Well,  Mr.  Whiting,  I'm  afraid  I've  got  to  be  frank.  I  don't  like  it.&quot;  \xe2\x80\x9cNO?   &quot;No.  I  feel  it  lacks  sincerity.&quot;  Just  so,  with  the  same  uninspired  acumen,  she  would  have  said  to  the  fish-  monger,  &quot;That  herring's  not  fresh.&quot;  He  was  on  the  brink  of  esteeming  her,  when  she  continued,  &quot;Mind  you,  we'll  pay  for  it.&quot;  Naturally.  One  does,  when  one  has  commissioned  a  thing.  Shall  we  go  out,  and  look  at  tombstones?  &quot;  For,  after  all,  he  could  not  esteem  her,  and  he  did  not  suppose  that  the  " b"hypothetical  fishmonger  would  have  esteemed  her,  either.  Fishmongers  re-  sent  bad  manners;  they  are  not  marble  slabs.  Discarding  the  thought  that  he  would  get  Pilkington's  check  having  done  uncommonly  little  to  earn  it,  he  began  to  question  him  about  the  tour  through  [REDACTED].  &quot;One  thing's  disappointed  me,&quot;  said  Pilkington.  &quot;I  did  hope  to  see  a  man-  orchis.&quot;  &quot;A  man-orchis'  Well,  if  you  take  the  lane  that  goes  off  behind  the  Wes-  leyan  Chapel  and  follow  along  it  till  you  come  to  the  second  signpost,  and  turn  left,  and  left  again  just  after  a  bridge,  and  on  till  you  come  to  an  old  windmill,  and  get  out  there,  and  go  through  a  white  gate-&quot;  He  broke  off.  They  were  now  in  the  churchyard,  and  beyond  the  church-  yard  wall  was  the  rector,  hurrying  for-  ward  with  welcoming  looks  to  greet  a  young  man.  &quot;Here  you  are!I  had  al-  most  given  up  hopes  of  you.  Don't  apologize,  don't  apologize!  Better  late  than  never.&quot;  The  young  man  he  had  almost  given  up  hopes  of  was  the  rodent  officer.  HE  warmth  of  the  sun  and  the  blue  ofthe  sky  and  the  blackness  of  therector  and  the  smell  of  the  churchyard  yews  and  the  ache  in  his  ankles  and  all  the  outrages  of  that  inter-  minable  afternoon,  from  his  dishonored  bed  to  Mrs.  Pilkington's  acumen,  to-  gether  with  the  residual  surliness  that  accompanies  the  knowledge  that  one  has  been  behaving  rather  disgracefully,  all  melted,  for  Hugh,  into  a  harmonious  and  amen-like  realization  that  he  could  now  go  home.  And  alone;  for  Mrs.  Pil-  kington  was  getting  into  the  car.  &quot;Hurry  up,  Harold!  We  really  must  be  getting  on.&quot;  &quot;Yes.  We  really  must  be  getting  on,&quot;  said  Harold.  He  said  it  in  an  un-  dertone,  as  though  addressing  only  him-  self,  and  justas  he  had  said  &quot;Silly  &quot;orm.  of  me,  of  course&quot;  after  sounding  the  horn  at  the  deaf  dog.  No  doubt  he  often  addressed  himself,  not  having  much  expecta-  tion  that  remarks  ad-  dressed  to  others  would  be  attended  to,  except  possi-  bly  in  the  confessional.  &quot;Goodbye,  Whiting.  It's  been  a  very  interesting  aft-  ernoon.  Very  interesting.  I'm  afraid  we've  taken  up  a  great  deal  of  your  time.&quot;  &quot;Harold!&quot;  He  lingered,  as  though  he  were  waiting  for  some-  thing  he  knew  wouldn't  happen,  then  turned  and  walked  to  the  gate.  How  extraordinary,  thought  Hugh,  that  those  two  may  have  lain  together  as  ob-  liviously  as  Audrey  and  the  ratcatcher.  &quot;Goodbye,  Mr.  Whit-  ing,&quot;  Mrs.  Pilkington  said.  &quot;Stop!  Stop,  I'm  com-  ing  with  you,&quot;  Hugh  called.  *  Since  Mr.  Pilkington  was  at  the  wheel,  the  car  stopped.  Hugh  got  in.  He  said  to  Mrs.  Pilkington,  &quot;Your  husband  wants  to  see  a   man-orchis-Aceras  anthro-  pophora-and  he  won't  find  the  place  unless  I  go  with  him.&quot;  Mr.  Pilkington  made  unerringly  for  the  Wesleyan  Chapel,  followed  the  lane  behind  it,  kept  on  past  the  first  signpost  and  at  the  second  turned  left,  and  left  again  after  crossing  the  bridge,  and  drew  up  beside  the  old  windmill.  There  was  no  need  to  guide  him;  the  directions  were  written  on  his  heart.  Mrs.  Pil-  kington  stayed  in  the  car,  remarking  that  they  didn't  want  her-her  acumen  again-and  that  she'd  rather  sit  quietly     %  _\xc2\xbb!  2  NLT  e     with  a  book.  They  walked  for  a  couple  of  miles  over  heathy  pasture  land,  for  the  most  part  in  silence.  Mr.  Pilkington  appeared  to  be  in  a  species  of  trance,  and  Hugh  was  tired.  When  they  neared  the  place  where  the  man-orchises  grew,  he  sat  down  and  left  Mr.  Pilkington  to  find  them  for  himself.  Mr.  Pilkington  strayed  and  gazed  and  strayed  and  gazed,  and  watching  him  Hugh  re-  flected  on  the  pursuit-so  arduous  and  so  haphazard-of  other  people's  pleas-  ure,  and  how,  in  the  course  of  that  aft-  ernoon,  quite  without  volition  or  de-  " b"sign  and  totally  against  his  preconceived  notion  of  how  he  would  spend  it,  he  had  been  instrumental  in  the  pleasure  of  three  people,  only  one  of  whom  it  had  ever  occurred  to  him  to  wish  to  please,  and  that  one  with  no  more  than  a  very  moderate  and  unspecifying  impulse  to  be  pleasant,  since  the  utmost  he  did  by  way  of  pleasing  Audrey  was  to  praise  her  for  not  disturbing  his  papers,  give  her  presents  at  Christmas  and  Easter,  and  tip  her  when  she  had  done  some-  thing  that  pleased  him.  Yet  she,  and  that  fellow  who  was  even  now  prepar-  ing  an  excruciating  death  for  some  harmless  church  mice,  and  Pilking-  ton-where  would  their  rounded  pleas,  ures  be  if  chance  had  not  impressed  him  to  drudge  and  trudge  and  moil  on  their  behalf?  Chance,  and  weak-mindedness,  since  he  could  perfectly  well  have  hid-  den  in  his  own  garden  and  never  met  the  Pilkingtons  at  all.  Not  that  his  mo-  tives  had  been  entirely  pure.  It  was  to  spare  his  own  feelings  as  well  as  to  spare  Audrey's  that  he  had  slunk  from  the  house.  It  was  as  much  to  wipe  Mrs.  Pilkington's  eye  as  to  gladden  Mr.  Pil-  kington's  heart  that  he  had  set  out  for  the  man-orchises.  But  he  was  not  inter-  ested  in  the  nature  of  his  motives.  A  pure  motive  is  a  barren  theme;  no  specula-  tion  branches  from  it;  it  is  incapable  of  contrapuntal  development.  Indeed,  his  motives,  even  though  impure,  had  counted  for  very  little.  Fortuity  and  a  resolute  illusion  of  free  will  had  shaped  his  course,  wrenching  him  away  from  the  rational  intention  ofa  quiet  after-  noon  under  his  own  roof  and  hurling  him,  unprepared,  into  a  career  of  living  for  others.  It  was  a  very  disorderly  way  to  live.  Yet  there  were  people  who  made  a  practice  of  it;  and  though  they  were  usually  wan  and  fractious,  they  got  on  somehow;  they  brushed  their  hair  and  caught  their  trains  and  kept  out  of  Bedlam,  No  doubt  it  was  largely  a  matter  of  technique,  of  keeping  in  practice.  It  must  be  admitted  that  in  the  matter  of  living  for  others  he  was  out  of  practice.  He  was  a  selfish  dog-  a  quiet,  cleanly,  abstemious,  and  selfish  dog.  And  his  legs  ached,  and  midges  were  biting  him,  and  he  wanted  to  creep  back  into  his  kennel.  Pilkington  was  beside  him,  saying  rather  sternly,  &quot;I  hope  you  don't  take  unreliable  people  to  see  them-people  who  might  dig  them  up.&quot;  &quot;You're  the  only  person  I've  taken.&quot;  Pilkington  flushed  with  pleasure.  I've  managed  that  quite  well,  thought  Hugh-though  in  fact  he  had  spoken  defensively  and  with  no  intention  to  please.  Seeing  the  man-orchises  had  con-  jured  up  a  new  Pilkington.  All  the  way  back,  he  held  forth  about  wild  flowers-  those  that  are  regional,  those  that  are  true  rarities,  those  that  are  escapes,  those  that  are  dying  out  through  the  actions  of  man.  The  war,  he  said,  had  done  incalculable  harm,  turning  the  British  flora  upside  down,  He  knew  a  great  deal,  and  was  rather  boring.  Fairies  are  said  to  live  on  nectar  and  the  scent  of  flowers,  and  Pilkington  was  like  a  fairy  who  had  just  had  a  good  meal.  His  eupepsia  swept  him  over  the  reunion  with  Mrs.  Pilkington;  he  quelled  her  re-  sentment  by  being  so  much  more  aware  of  his  own  satisfaction,  and  in  the  end  she  was  forced  in  self-defense  to  say  that  she  had  been  enjoying  her  book,  and  had  seen  a  weasel.  &quot;Mr.  Whiting  looks  tired,&quot;  she  re-  marked.  &quot;Oh  dear,  I  hope  not.&quot;  &quot;What  he  needs  is  some  brandy.&quot;  She  produced  a  flask  and  a  cup,  stating  that  one  should  always  take  brandy  with  one,  and  that  she  always  did.  Nothing  could  render  her  less  unamiable,  but  it  was  admirable  brandy.  Hugh  began  to  feel  more  like  his  usual  self,  and  when  they  assured  him  that  the  least  they  could  do  was  to  drive  him  home,  he  said  that  it  would  be  even  better  if  they  would  first  drive  to  the  station,  where  he  had  a  suitcase  waiting  to  be  picked  up. "