 b"AFTER  the  shock  of  seeing  that  face  A  in  San  Francisco,  it  is  no  won-  der  my  recurrent,  dreamlike  memory  of  Clam  Harbor,  and  the  sum-  mers  when  I  was  growing  up  there,  en-  veloped  me  once  more  asI  lay  last  night  in  my  narrow  bed,  awakened  by  the  ghastly  laughter  of  coyotes  out  in  the  [REDACTED]  desert.  But,  this  time,  it  seemed  to  come  out  differently.  .  ..  I  lay  there,  worrying  about  the  ailing  children  in  my  charge,  and  gradually,  insteadof  them,  I  seemed  to  see  the  old  dock,  of  silvery  splintered  boards  supported  at  the  corners  by  the  weathered  piles  called  dolphins.  Remnants  of  last  night's  fog  drift  across  the  dock  in  gauzy  streamers;  it  is  the  middle  of  the  morning  and  every-  body  has  gone  sailing  except  me.  But  I  am  nineteen  and  I  would  rather  be  caught  dead  than  out  in  a  boat  with  those  great  hearty  brutes  in  their  blue  jeans,  laughing  at  their  wholesome  jokes.  I  am  sitting  on  the  end  of  the  dock  with  my  feet  hanging  over  the  edge,  and  beside  me  sits  the  idol  of  my  life,  dressed  in  a  dark-red  tweed  skirt  and  French  jersey,  with  a  string  of  Chanel  pearls  around  her  neck.  Mrs.  Bogden!  She  is  gazing  out  to  where     vignettes  of  brilliantly  blue  ocean  are  framed  in  the  garlands  of  the  mist,  and  telling  me  about  [REDACTED],  St.  Moritz,  and  Brioni.  Suddenly-as  always  in  this  remem-  bered  half  dream-she  remarks,  &quot;The  way  to  be  happy  is  to  be  always  in  love,  don't  you  think?&quot;  I  nod,  and  swallow  hard,  thrilled.  Mrs.  Bogden  lights  another  of  her  Bal-  kan  Sobranies  and  turns,  toward  me,  her  face  with  its  delightful  nose  and  dark-red  lips,  bordered  by  exquisitely  arranged  gray  hair.  &quot;Don't  [REDACTED];  she  repeats.  Sheseems  actually  to  want  to  know  what  I  think.  &quot;Don't  you  think  it  is?&quot;  I  could  never,  before  last  night,  re-  ply-either  in  real  life  or  in  the  mem-  ory.  What  could  such  as  I  tell  a  Mrs.  Bogden  aboutanything?  Mrs.  Bogden,  on  the  other  hand,  had  everything  to  tell  me.  I  was,  at  that  period,  desperately  in  love  myself;  and  while  the  condition  wasmaking  me  far  from  happy,  I  also  felt  that  at  any  moment  the  world  would  break  forth  into  a  radiant  heaven  complete  with  Vionnet  angel  wings  and  harps  that  played  &quot;That  Certain  Feel-  ing.&quot;  I  had  fallen  in  love  with  a  Har-  vard  boy  from  New  York,  whose  family  owned  a  house  in  [REDACTED]  and  a  chateau  in  Newport,  and  who  had  pre-  sented  me  with  a  bottle  of  Guerlain's  L'Heure  Bleue.  Glamour  was  what  I  needed  to  cope  with  my  situation.  Glam-  our  was  what  Mrs.  Bogden  was  com-  pact  of.  She  was  exactly  what  I  wanted-  what  I  needed-to  be;  down  to  her  long,  dark-red  fingertips.  Sitting  within  her  aura  I  thought  how  wonderful  it  would  seem  to  be  my  old  Winsor  school-  mate  [REDACTED]  Bogden  and  have  such  a  stepmother;  someone  who  could  with  easy  grace  lead  the  way  along  the  paths  of  the  great  world  and  into  the  courts  of  sophistication.  My  own  family  seemed  to  me  unsophisticated  to  the  point  of  im-  becility.  A  person  who  never  visited  [REDACTED]  in  theold  days  cannot  imagine  the  de-  gree  to  which  simplicity  could  be  culti-  vated  in  families  like  ours.  And  the  sightseer  from  South  Bend  who  did,  perhaps,  stare  studiously  up  at  our  house  on  the  water  side  of  Beacon  Street  could  never  have  realized  that  its  two  bathrooms  contained  zinc-lined  tubs  about  fifty  years  old,  in  which  all  of  us  Eliots  took  cold  baths  before  breakfast  straight  through  the  winter;  that  even  the  grownups  made  their  breakfasts  of  whole  oranges,  whole-wheat  porridge,  and  whole  milk;  that  decisions  about  the  day's  subsequent  menus  were  based  entirely  upon  nutritive,  not  gustatory,  values;  that  such  entertainments  as  we  might  attend  (Symphony  and  Shake-  speare)  were  selected  upon  a  compara-  ble  basis;  that  for  school  we  girls  were  dressed  invariably,  like  our  mother,  in  serviceable  Scotch  tweeds,  worn  over  long  woollen  drawers,  to  which  we  gave  a  twist  before  pulling  up  our  cotton  stockings  and  lacing  our  brown  boots.  A  Fair  Isle  sweater  might  constitute  the  sole  lavish  note  in  our  daytime  ward-  robes.  For  Foster's  Dancing  Classes  at  the  Somerset,  we  wore,  with  inevitabili-  ty,  pink  taffeta,  with  a  tinsel  rose  at  the  hip,  and  low-heeled  silver  slippers.  All  this  high  thinking  and  plain  liv-  ing  carried  with  it  a  faint  but  definite  religious  tinge.  To  556e6974656420537461746573ians  like  us,  living  in  the  way  that  people  from  New  York  did-worldly  people,  rich  peo-  ple-was  Wrong.  Not  that  my  family  was  churchy.  They  were  fully  liberated  [REDACTED]  Street  Church  Unitarians,  which  meant  that  they  subscribed  hand-  somely  and  went  seldom.  But,  as  good  Unitarians,  they  believed  they  best  served  their  faith  when  they  were  fol-  lowing  their  private  spiritual  convic-  tions.  For  my  mother,  these  involved  mountain-climbing.  Almost  from  our  " b"infancy,  she  had  hauled  my  older  sister  Betsey  and  me  up  the  slopes  of  assorted  White  and  Green  Moun-  tains.  Generally  she  left  us  far  behind,  climbing  stead-  ily  with  her  measured  but  energetic  step.  Many  is  the  time  I  have  come,  panting  and  puffing,  upon  my  moth-  er,  after  she  had  beenlong  seated  on  some  summit  and  was  gazing  off  at  the  mag-  nificence  of  its  surroundings  with  an  austere  and  serene  expression  which-years  later,  in  the  catalogue  ofa  museum-I  recognized  as  akin  to  that  ofa  sculptured  bodhisattva,  an  Enlightened  One.  When  she  became  aware  of  my  arrival,  Moth-  er  would  turn  her  faint  smile  upon  me:  calm,  de-  tached,  compassionate.  &quot;Sit  down,  Lucy,&quot;  she  would  say,  &quot;and  try  to  practice  realizing  that  ourselves  and  the  rest  of  the  universe  are  of  one  substance.&quot;  I  would  sit  down,  but  I  was  never  able  to  get  inter-  ested  in  the  topic  she  recom-  mended.  My  thoughts,  as  I  moved  into  my  teens,  ran  to  formless  yearnings  for  clothes,  to  fanta-  sies  about  what  the  world  beyond  Bos-  ton  was  like,  and  to  boys.  I  was  well  aware  that  my  mother's  reflections  were  worthier  ones  than  mine;  I  was  even,  dimly,  aware  that  what  animated  her  was  something  very  remarkable-was,  in  fact,  pure  love.  My  mother's  feeling  about  all  of  na-  ture  was  strongly  mystical.  At  our  cot-  tage  at  Clam  Harbor,  where  we  spent  the  greater  part  of  every  summer,  Mother  taught  us  to  swim  and  dive  by  principles  a  woman  from  another  city  might  have  reserved  for  dealing  with  her  love  life.  I  can  see  Mother  now-  long,  spare  limbs  clad  in  a  gray  bath-  ing  dress,  standing  beside  the  diving  board  on  the  raft  moored  off  the  beach.  She  hasput  on  a  gray  rubber  bathing  cap,  but  between  it  and  her  long,  erect,  sunburned  neck  some  loops  of  sandy  hair  emerge.  &quot;Give  yourself  to  the  wa-  ter!&quot;  she  cries  as  we  hesitate  before  the  plunge.  When  she  herself  comes  to  dive,  her  narrow  face,  freckled  and  innocent  of  makeup,  wearsan  expression  of  bliss  in  the  instant  before  she  dedicates  her-  self  to  the  sea.  To  Mother,  there  was  something  Wrong  about  being  separated  from  the  outdoors  any  more  than  was  necessary.  At  Clam  Harbor  we  slept  out  on  one  long  sleeping  porch,  all  four  of  us,  in  beds  that  had  tarpaulins  for  the  nights  when  September  equinoctial  storms  drove  pelting  rain  across  them.  Our  three  meals  were  served  on  a  screened  porch  that  possessed  an  elevating  view  over  Clam  Harbor  to  Clam  Point  and,  bevond  it,  of  the  Atlantic.  Our  Irish  maids,  down  from  [REDACTED]  for  the  sum-  mer,  viewed  this  latter  custom  with  a  sour  eye.  It  was,  of  course,  nothing  to  them  that  our  food  was  cold  by  the  time  it  reached  us,  but  they  did  not  care  for  waiting  on  table  mornings  when  a  fresh  westerly  breeze  had  sprung  up,  or  evenings  when  the  fog  insinuated  clammy  streamers  between  the  meshes  of  the  screen.  Sometimes  they  asserted  their  point  of  view  by  appearing  in  some  old,  ravelled  sweater  worn  over  black  uniform  and  white  [REDACTED]-edged  apron.  My  mother  would  raise  sandy  eye-  brows.  &quot;Bridie,&quot;  she  would  say  in  her  ringing  voice.  &quot;Surely  you  aren't  cold,  this  splendid  day?&quot;  &quot;No,  Mum,&quot;  the  maid  would  always  mumble.  Our  maids  might  quit,  but  they  never  talked  back,  for  my  mother  carried  about  her  an  aura,  unmistakable  to  everybody,  of  being  in  the  right.  Bridie,  or  Norah,  or  Teresa,  would  appear  in  another  minute  or  two  bearing  muffins  and  sans  sweater.  But  sometimes  I  would  hearher  when  she  thought  her-  self  alone,  washing  dishes  after  the  meal  at  the  copper-lined  sink  out  in  the  bare,  matchboard  pantry.  &quot;Ah,&quot;  she  would  be  muttering  in  exasperation  and  sheer  Irishness.  &quot;Aaaah.  ...&quot;  My  mother  was  in  the  right;  almost  always.  She  made  a  study  of  it.  To  her  it  would  have  seemed  foolish  and  unintel-  ligent  not  to.  She  had  trained  herself  to  consider  the  various  aspects  of  her  life  in  order  to  determine  what  in  them  represented  the  true,  the  good,  and  the  beautiful,  and  then  to  choose  that  and  follow  it  up  with  assiduity.  It  seemed  clear  to  her  that  there  was  always  a  bet-  ter  and  a  worser  side  to  things;  a  higher  and  a  lower.  To  choose  the  best  of  ev-  erything  was  only  what  one  owed  to  oneself,  one's  family,  and  one's  God.  Outdoors  wasmore  beautiful  than  in-  doors;  Nature  was  vaster  than  man;  love  was  superior  to  more  transitory  emotions;  thrift  was  wiser  than  waste;  life  was  short,  and  there  was  little  enough  time  for  good  music  and  great  books  without  wasting  any  of  it  on  the  trivial  or  the  frivolous.  I  remember  my  " b"sister  Betsey,  aged  about  twelve,  making  one  of  our  rare  stands  against  the  claims  of  the  superior.  &quot;But  I  don't  like  Brahms!&quot;  she  is  insisting.  Her  face  is  red,  her  hands  are  behind  her  back,  pressed  for  support  against  the  walnut  door  of  the  library  in  the  Beacon  Street  house.  &quot;I  can't  help  it  if  I  don't  like  him,  can  I?&quot;  My  mother,  who  sits  on  the  Chippen-  dale  sofa,  which  had  come  down  in  her  own  family,  closes  the  book  she  is  hold-  ing,  over  her  thumb,  and  replies  without  heat.  &quot;You  can  help  giving  way  to  non-  sense,&quot;  she  says.  &quot;Youknow  Brahms'  music  is  great.  You  can,  at  least,  try  to  feel  what  you  ought  to.&quot;  My  mother  was  able  to  admit  when  she  had  been  wrong,  and,  by  making  a  fresh  assessment  and  a  fresh  judgment,  arrive  once  more  at  a  positionof  recti-  tude.  &quot;Coming  out  was  not  a  success,  for  you,&quot;  she  said  in  early  June  of  the  summer  of  which  I  write,  looking  down  at  me  from  her  unusual  height  with  the  reasonable  gaze  that  had  become  to  me  particularly  exasperating.  If  only  Moth-  er  could  be  unreasonable  once  in  a  while!  &quot;You  would  better  have  begun  Radcliffe  at  once,  after  all.  I  mis-  gauged  the  matter.  A  pity.  Now,  for  Betsey,  coming  out  seemed  to  be  almost  too  much  ofa  good  thing.&quot;  I  muttered  something.  No  more  than  any  maid  could  I  have  talked  back  to  Mother.  But  what  a  coming-out  mine  was!  I  suppose  Mother  would  never  have  countenanced  a  convention  so  foreign  to  fresh  air  and  early  bedtimes  at  all  had  it  not  been  for  some  concept  of  her  own  about  a  time  of  innocent  gaiety,  meeting  jolly  boys;  a  little  girlish  mer-  riment  before  settling  down  to  the  reali-  ties  of  womanhood.  Her  own  d\xc3\xa9but,  forty  years  before,  seems  to  have  been  along  such  lines.  She  and  my  father  met  first  at  a  dance  in  the  Crowninshields'  house  on  Marlborough  Street.  Later  they  became  engaged  at  The  Country  Club  in  [REDACTED],  on  the  basis  of  a  shared  interest  in  butterflies,  sailing,  and  climbing  mountains.  I  visualize  them  on  that  momentous  occasion,  sitting  out  on  the  glassed-in  porch  at  The  Country  Club  so  long  ago,  their  two  serious  faces-which  by  the  time  I  knew  them  had  grown  to  look  curiously  alike-  turned  enthusiastically  to  one  another.  What  my  mother's  dress  that  night  was  like  I  don't  know,  but  in  her  wedding  photographs  she  wears  a  trailing  white  gown  trimmed  with  lace,  with  a  boned  collar  that  comes  all  the  way  up  her  long  neck  to  her  ear  lobes.  By  the  time  Betsey  and  I  came  out,  however,  enthusiasm  and  shared  inter-  ests  were  simply  not  enough  for  a  girl to  get  by  with  at  a  dance.  Betsey,  who  came  out  the  year  before  Idid,  broke  out  of  the  confining  circle  of  our  bring-  ing-upby  becoming  &quot;wild&quot;  -one  of  the  wild  girls.  I  doubt  whether  Mother  ever  knew  how  wild;  I'm  not  even  sure  myself.  I  know  that  she  danced  cheek  to  cheek,  and  went  out  to  parked  cars  during  dances  to  neck.  I  shared  the  secret  that  it  was  routine  for  her  to  spend  the  night  with  some  old  school  friend  so  that  she  could  evade  the  family  ordinance  about  not  coming  home  alone  with  a  boy  after  a  dance.  At  the  period  of  which  I  speak,  Betsey's  solution  was  a  fairly  typical  one  with  [REDACTED]  girls  for  whom  the  boiling  point  of  high-minded-  ness  had  been  reached.  In  any  coming-  out  year  there  was  always  at  least  one  girl  who  was  suspected  of  having  &quot;gone  the  limit.&quot;  &quot;Health&quot;  was  the  word  we  used  to  sum  up  the  whole  unbearable  repres-  sion  against  which  such  as  Betsey  re-  belled.  I  can  see  her  now,  one  night  early  in  her  coming-out  year;  she  had  come  into  my  room,  where  I  was  doing  my  next  day's  homework  for  Winsor,  dressed  in  a  pale-blue  chiffon  dress,  with  silver  beading  at  the  hip  to  match  " b"her  slippers.  I  said  some-  thing  about  her  looking  nice.  &quot;In  this?&quot;  she  asked;  her  voice  cracked  with  fury.  &quot;I  hate  it!  Look  at  this  healthy  neckline,  for  Pete's  sake!  Look  at  these  horrible  health  shoes!  It's  all  so  S.S.  and  G.!&quot;  This  was  the  go-  ing  term  for  sweet,  simple,  and  girlish  in  our  day.  &quot;Look  at  my  hair!&quot;  she  con-  tinued.  Hers  was  the  same  fine,  straight,  sandy  hair  as  Mother's,  done  up  in  crossed  bands  at  the  back.  Suddenly  Betsey  started  snatching  out  the  pins  that  held  it.  She  seized  my  desk  scissors  and  began  to  slash.  &quot;*Betsey  !&quot;  aghast.  &quot;I  don't  care,&quot;  she  said,  hacking  away.  &quot;Now  she'll  have  to  let  me  get  it  shin-  gled.  I  will  \xc2\xbbxot  have  a  crown  of  glory.&quot;  All  that  was  very  well  for  Betsey.  Whether  be-  cause  of  the  necking  parties  or  not,  she  turned  out  a  great  success  at  dances,  and  had  dozens  of  invitations  to  Harvard  football  and  ice-  hockey  games.  But  nobody  even  tried  to  neck  me.  The  memory  of  my  coming-out  party  still  brings  cold  sweat  to  my  brow  in  the  night.  It  was  described  in  the  invitations  as  &quot;a  small  dance,&quot;  and  small  it  certainly  was.  There  were  two  other  dances  the  same  night,  and  not  enough  stags  turned  up  at  the  Women's  Republican  Club,  where  mine  was  held.  The  decorations  were  russet  chrysanthemums,  the  sea-  son  being  October,  and  the  orchestra  Ted  Groves-not  Bert  Lowe's  or  Billy  Lossez'-because  Father  saw  no  point  in  putting  money  into  things  that  did  not  matter.  It  would  never  have  occurred  to  me  to  argue  about  it.  His  attitude  toward  expense  was  as  much  a  part  of  Father  as  walking  every  day,  rain  or  shine,  across  the  Public  Gardens  and  the  Common  to  his  office  on  Milk  Street,  or  his  espousal  of  Women's  Rights.  Or  his  attitude  toward  Shake-  speare.  I  can  see  Father  as  he  used  to  stand  before  the  fire  in  the  library.  He  lifts  his  sandy  eyebrows  and  remarks,  &quot;My  father  always  told  me,  'My  boy,  never  let  anyone  persuade  you  otherwise  than  that  only  a  scholar  and  a  gentle-  man-Bacon,  in  short-could.  have  written  the  plays.&quot;  &quot;  Father  coughs,  and  the  Adam's  apple  in  his  long,  loose-  I  cried,    skinned  throat  jerks.  He  glances  toward  Mother  for  support  of  what  he  has  said.  She  usually  did  agree;  she  agreed  about  Ted  Groves'  orchestra  when  Father  re-  marked  that  it  seemed  to  him  to  play  very  jolly  music.  To  its  jolly  music  I,  the  d\xc3\xa9butante,  danced  round  and  round  with  a  suc-  cession  of  dutiful  partners.  I  was  dressed  in  white  tulle,  of  course,  with  healthy  neckline  and  low-heeled  white-and-  silver  brocade  slippers.  That  South  Bend  sightseer  might,  next  day,  have  been  impressed  by  the  far  greater  prominence  given  to  my  picture  and  my  party's  guest  list  in  the  public  prints  than  to  the  other,  bigger  dances,  but  my  father  was  put  out  because,  by  an  inadvertence,  the  pic-  ture  had  got  into  the  paper  at  all.  Betsey  expressed  her  own  and  my  reactions  to  the  whole  affair  when  she  said,  &quot;At  least  nobody  could  say  it  wasn't  a  nice,  healthy  evening.&quot;  What  I  felt  myself  to  be,  during  that  winter,  was  unequipped,  unprepared,  unaided,  helpless,  and  suffering.  What  my  contemporaries  thought  of  me  as  was  something  known  as  a  pill.  The  attendants  in  the  dressing  rooms  of  the  hotels  grew  well  acquainted  with  me  through  those  hours  when  I  cowered  there,  assuming  chattiness,  rather  than  let  some  wretched  boy  be  stuck  with  me  any  longer.  After  the  first  month  of  it,  I  stopped  even  bothering  to  invent  ex-  cuses  to  the  attendants  about  needing  to  mend  my  dress  or  my  stocking.  I  sim-  ply  fled  to  them.  In  February,  just  before  the  dances  stopped  for  Lent,  I  fell  in  love.  It  began  as  if  it  were  a  mutual  rescue  of  and  by  two  kindred  sufferers.  I  had  retreated  to  the  fireplace  in  the  long  room  at  The  Country  Club  when  the  music  stopped  at  the  end  of  an  interminable  circling  in  the  arms  of  the  son  of  one  of  Moth-  er's  friends,  whose  stiff  face  softened  when  I  said  I  had  to  speak  to  somebody  across  the  room.  There,  leaning  against  the  mantel-  piece,  stood  a  slight,  wistful-looking  young  man  with  red  hair.  When  he  moved  as  I  approached,  I  saw  that  he  was  lame.  I  had  intended  to  stand  there  for  only  a  moment,  to  gauge  my  po-  sition  and  decide  whether  to  beat  a  " b"retreat,  once  again,  to  the  familiar  up-  stairs  dressing  room  or  to  join  the  host-  ess's  group  along  the  wall.  But  the  strange  young  man  put  out  his  hand  and  touched  my  arm.  &quot;I  say,  do  you  mind  talking  with  [REDACTED];  he  said  in  an  English  accent.  &quot;I  don't  dance,  you  see,  and  I  do  feel  most  awfully  solit'ry.&quot;  He  smiled  ashy,  crooked  smile.  I  smiled,  too.  &quot;I'm  Lucy  Eliot,&quot;  I  offered.  &quot;What  a  nice  name,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Lucy  Locket  lost  her  pocket.  My  name's  (Giles  Wall.&quot;  We  shook  hands.  He  shifted  his  position  with  a  cripple's  clum-  siness  and  went  on.  &quot;Music  is  what  I'm  mad  for.  Music  and  ballet.  What  are  you  keen  on?&quot;  &quot;I  think  I  like  pictures  the  best,&quot;  I  said,  struggling  to  reveal  the  truth  about  myself.  &quot;But  I  like  music,  too.&quot;  We  could  almost  have  been  Mother  and  Father,  all  those  years  ago,  exchanging  enthusiasms.  But  before  I  even  so  much  as  left  The  Country  Club  that  night,  the  situation  I  had  got  myself  into  was  revealed  to  me,  &quot;You  were  certainly  hitting  it  off  with  Giles  Wall,&quot;  Betsey  said  to  me  as  we  put  our  evening  wraps  on.  Betsey  still  went  to  some  of  the  d\xc3\xa9butante  par-  ties,  as  an  L.O.P.H.,  or  Left  on  Papa's  Hands-er.  She  had  managed  to  screw  a  white  bunny-fur  jacket  out  of  the  family  this  last  Christmas,  but  my  own  wrap  was  that  ultimate  556e6974656420537461746573ian  degrada-  tion  the  family  Chinese  robe,  worn  over  a  sweater  for  warmth.  &quot;He  asked  me  to  have  tea  with  him  at  the  Copley,  Friday,&quot;  I  said.  I  am  sure  my  eyes  shone.  Inside  me  a  river of  stars  seemed  softly  to  be  flowing.  &quot;Good  going,&quot;  Betsey  said.  &quot;You'll  end  up  with  millions  yet,  old  dear.&quot;  &quot;What?&quot;  I  said,  only  slightly  dis-  tracted  from  the  contemplation  of  the  heaven  which  consists  of  the  cessation  of  being  rejected.  &quot;You  know  who  he  is,  don't  you?&quot;  Betsey  said.  &quot;Giles  Wall.  Wall  and  Wall,  in  New  York.  Bucky  Sturgis  has  the  room  next  to  him  in  Claverly,  and  he  told  me  Giles  went  to  school  in  Eng-  land.  And  his  mother  ran  away  and  married  a  duke.  And  his  father  is  mar-  ried  to  a  ballet  dancer.  And  they  own  about  ten  houses.  Just  rolling.  Giles  isn't  a  bit  popular  at  Harvard,  though.  He  isn't  even  in  a  club.  So  he's  just  the  thing  for  you,&quot;  Betsey  added  with  sis-  terly  candor.  The  stars  in  my  river  were  all  ex-  ploding.  By  the  time  I  came  down  the  stairs  to  the  hall,  where  a  milling  crowd  of  stags  in  tails  orblack  tie  waited  to  say  goodbye  to  somebody  or  to  take  someone  home,  andsaw  Giles-his  face  greenish  white  against  his  red  hair-leaning  against  the  farther  wall,  I  could  feel  the  first  stab  of  an  agonywhich  was  to  pierce  my  growing  love  like  the  golden  arrow  that  pierces  the  red-velvet  heart.  THERE  was  never  again  to  be,  for  me,  the  feeling  of  easy  communi-  cation  we  had  had  when  we  leaned  together  against  the  fireplace,  talking.  Only  my  adoration  continued  to  grow;  and,  along  with  it,  the  conviction  of  my  utter  inadequacy.  Giles  used  to  come  to  see  me,  park-  ing  his  Lancia  at  the  curb  on  Beacon  Street  and  limping  up  the  steps,  while  I  watched,  hidden  behind  a  glass  cur-  tain  in  the  bow  window,  my  heart  thumping.  I  would  go  down  to  meet  him  in  the  reception  room  to  the  left  of  the  front  hall,  and  we  would  sit  on  the  stiff  sofa  there  while  Giles  talked  about  ballet  and  music;  Betsey  and  her  beaux  would  more  than  likely  have  pre\xc3\xa9mpted  the  living  room,  and  I  never  liked  to  " b"take  Giles  to  the  library  because  Mother  was  usually  there.  Giles  talked  about  how  fabulously  beautiful  his  mother  was,  and  how  his  father  had  never  cared  for  him,  and  how  his  leg  was  broken  playing  rugger  at  preparatory  school  in  [REDACTED]  and  set  improperly;  how  he  had  later  hated  Eton,  and  about  the  symphony  he  was  writing  now.  &quot;But  nobody  understands  what  I  am  trying  to  do,&quot;he  would  insist.  &quot;Nobody  at  all,  actually.&quot;  My  heart  bled.  &quot;I  want  to  under-  stand,&quot;  Icried.  &quot;Do  you?&quot;  he  would  say,  turning  his  bemused  eyes  on  me.  &quot;Sweet.  Sweet    Lucy  Locket.  I  say!  Couldn't  you  get  your  family  to  let  you  come  abroad  this  summer,  p'raps?  I'd  adore  to  have  you  meet  my  mother.  I'm  sure  she'd  ask  you.  She's  living  in  [REDACTED],  you  know,  with  that  beast  Fallchester  she  married.  She's  divine,  my  mother  is.  Very  fair,  with  a  face  like  an  ill  white  lily.  Quite,  quite  different  from  Mona.&quot;  Mona,  I  had  learned,  was  his  father's  present  wife,  his  fourth.  &quot;Mona's  divine,  too,  of " b"course,  in  quite  another  way  from  my  mother,  Dark,  with  the  serene  sort  of  brow  a  woman  has  to  have  if  she's  to  do  her  hair  in  smooth  bands.  Mona  has  the  perfect  ballet  face,  actually.  I  wonder  how  long  my  father  will  love  her.&quot;  &quot;Id  love  to  go  abroad!&quot;  I  cried  when  he  seemed  to  wait  fora  reply  to  his  suggestion.  &quot;Maybe  Mother  would  let  me  ...&quot;  But  of  course  Mother  wouldn't.  &quot;I  thinknot,&quot;  she  decided.  &quot;This  would  not  be  a  wise  summer  for  Eu-  rope,  Lucy.  I  admit  my  judgment  was  off  about  coming  out,  for  you,  but  this  winter  was  to  have  provided  your  time  for  gaiety.  It's  certainly  provided  noth-  ing  else.  You  must  learn  to  seek  a  bal-  ance,  dear.  Radcliffe,  next  year,  will  give  you  the  intellectual  discipline  you  have  lacked  the  past  several  months.  I  think  of  Europe,  too,  when  you  do  go,  as  a  place  of  study;  you  will,  of  course,  thrill  to  the  master-  pieces  of  art  there  as  well.  But  the  coming  summer  should  be  a  time  for  vigorous  exer-  cise  after  your  winter  withindoors.  .  ..  Be-  sides,  Giles's  mother  hasn't  invited  you.&quot;  She  would,  if  you'd  only  say  I  could  go-&quot;  But  I  knew  it  was  no  use.  Mother's  logic  and  her  sense  of  the  fitness  of  things  seemed  always  irrefutable.  She  liked  Giles.  She  thought  of  him  as  that  poor  un-  loved  young  thing  who  was,  moreover,  lame.  But  she  was  simply  unconscious  of  those  elements  in  his  life  that  made  me  feel,  under-  neath  all  my  longing  and  desire,  a  sort  of  ter-  ror  lest  Mother  might,  after  all,  let  me  go  to  visit  the  Duchess  of  Fallchester.  I  was  too  unequipped  for  it.  Once  again,  but  differently  from  in  the  dark  days  before  the  meeting  with  Giles  beside  The  Coun-  try  Club  fireplace,  I  felt  myself  unprepared,  un-  assisted,  helpless,  and  suffering.  I  had  been  to  good  schools,  I  had  learned  what  my  moth-  er  had  tried  to  teach  me,  but  I  did.  not  know  anything  that  I  \xe2\x82\xac     needed.  My  need  seemed  as  infinite  as  the  sea.  N  late  May  we  moved  as  usual  from  Beacon  Street  down  to  our  huge,  gray-shingled  house  at  Clam  Harbor,  cold  as  a  cave  at  this  time  of  year.  The  change  that  had  occurred  in  me  was  re-  flected  by  my  realizing,  for  the  first  time,  that  my  childhood's  summer  home  was  perfectly  hideous.  Our  healthy  summer  routine  began:  a  dip  in  the  ocean  before  breakfast  at  seven,  reading  and  letter  writing  till  ten,  swimming  or  tennis  till  luncheon,  or  sailing  for  the  whole  day;  and  for  gaiety  a  frequent  tea  party  in  somebody's  garden  to  view  how  beautifully  the  cosmos  and  the  sweet  Williams  and  the  roses  were  coming  along.  My  father,  home  from  town  by  that  time  of  the  afternoon,  would  accompany  us,  in  boater  hat  with  club  ribbon  and  white  flannel  trousers. Sometimes  there  was  square  dancing  in  the  evenings,  when  we  pranced  back  and  forth  until  the  house  shook.  We  had  a  neighborhood  tradition  at  Clam  Har-  bor-which  had  come  down  from  the  last  century-of  playing  a  game  of  beanbags.  Two  sides  were  chosen,  their  members  alternating  with  each  other  down  two  long  rows.  The  beanbags  were  thrown  crisscross  by  members  of  each  team,  and  the  team  that  got  its  twenty  beanbags  down  to  the  end  of  the  line  and  back  to  the  start  again  won.  Giles  was  in  [REDACTED]  with  his  mother,  and  wrote  me  a  few  short  letters:  &quot;Sweet  Lucy,  how  is  [REDACTED]?  We  had  dinner  under  the  pergola  last  night  and  I  wished  you  could  one  day  see  the  moon  rise  over  the  Rhone.  My  mother  is  suf-  fering  terribly,  of  course....&quot;  Her  suffering  was  nothing  to  my  suffering,  I  felt;  his  wish  nothing  to  my  own  wish-my  need-to  be  somebody  en-  tirely  different,  some-  body  at  home  in  the  great  world,  whom  Giles  could  love;  some-  one  beautiful,  sophisti-  cated,  and  like  an  ill  lily.  I  could  visualize  all  too  perfectly  how  I  looked  in  my  actual  person,  dressed  in  the  old  cotton  frocks  we  kept  at  Clam  Harbor;  wearing  dirty  sneakers;  /  my  hair  unattractive-  ly  blown  about.  I  was  p  without  glamour  and  inescapably  healthy,  be-  cause  I  had  never  learned  how  to  go  about  being  anything  else.  Into  my  need,  like  a  sail  on  the  horizon  of  a  shipwreck,  came  Mrs.  Bogden.  Somewhat  breathless  whispers  of  her  fame  had  reached  me  earlier.  Mr.  Bog-  den,  a  [REDACTED]  widower,  had  met  the  former  Mrs.  Hurst  in  [REDACTED]  the  summer  before,  as  he  was  starting  on  the  Little  Tour  with  his  daughter  [REDACTED],  who  graduated  from  Win-  sor  the  year  before  I  did.  After  sending  [REDACTED]  home  in  Sep-  tember  to  continue  her  work  at  the  School  of  the  Museum  of  Fine  Arts,  he  had  remained  in  [REDACTED]  to  press  his  " b"suit.  In  December,  he  married  the  556e6974656420537461746573n  divorc\xc3\xa9e,  and  in  spring,  after  a  honeymoon  in  North  Africa,  brought  her  home  to  [REDACTED].  Later,  when  we  had  become  fast  friends,  Mrs.  Bogden  used  to  tell  me  about  her  flat  on  Half  Moon  Street,  where  she  was  living  at  the  time  of  Mr.  Bogden's  advent:  &quot;tiny,  terribly  amus-  ing,  really,  and  not  at  all  expensive  as  such  things  go.  Nicky  Eritsoff  sublet  it  to  me  for  twenty  guineas  only.&quot;  How  I  could  visualize  that  flat!  My  ravished  imagination  supplied  color  to  the  French  furniture  she  described,  the  brocaded  armchairs.  I  could  see  the  delightful  little  suppers  after  the  theatre,  before  a  small  coal  fire,  and  breathe  in  the  atmos-  phere,  permeated  deliciously  by  Hou-  bigant's  Girofl\xc3\xa9e-the  scent  which  I  came  to  know  so  well  and  which  seemed  the  essence  of  my  idol.  Perfume  was  another  of  the  elements  in  that  un-  known  life  to  which  I  fearfully  aspired.  No  one  in  the  Eliot  family  had  ever  come  any  closer  to  perfume  than  4711  cologne.  But,  for  my  birthday  in  May,  Giles  had  presented  me  with  a  bottle  of  L'Heure  Bleue.  I  concealed  it  from  Mother,  who  I  knew  would  not  have  let  me  accept  it.  All  alone,  in  secret,  I  would  take  the  big  crystal  bottle  with  its  handsome  stopper  out  from  under  a  pile  of  sweaters  in  my  bottom  drawer  and  sniff  the  scent,  which,  more  than  words  and  images  even,  could  suggest  the  atmosphere  of  another  world.  Some-  times  I  wept.  The  first  time  I  met  Mrs.  Bogden  was  early  in  June,  after  a  day  out  rac-  ing  my  Knockabout,  with  [REDACTED]  Bog-  den  crewing  for  me.  A  squall  had  over-  taken  us  in  the  afternoon,  and  we  had  been  successively  wet  through  and  dried  out  again  by  the  sun  and  the  chill  east  wind  that  followed  the  rain.  By  the  time  we  walked  up  to  the  Bogdens'  cottage,  carrying  the  oars  and  the  sailbag,  we  must  have  looked  a  sight.  We  went  into  the  house,  familiar  to  me  from  child-  hood,  and  suddenly  it  was  unfamiliar.  A  Russian  icon  was  hanging  on  the  match-  board  wall  at  the  foot  of  the  stairs,  a  fur  rug  lay  on  the  hall  floor,  and  in  the  air  was  a  curious,  dry  fragrance.  We  walked  into  the  living  room,  where  a  woman  with  beautifully  arranged  gray  hair  was  crouching  before  the  fire  holding  the  fire  shovel  out  over  the  flames.  &quot;Uh-M  aman,&quot;  [REDACTED]  said.  &quot;This  is  Lucy  Eliot.&quot;  Without  rising,  Mrs.  Bogden  turned  toward  us  and  smiled,  with  dark-red  lips.  &quot;Howd'  you  do,&quot;  she  said  in  the  same  sort  of  international-British  ac-  " b"cent  Giles  had.  &quot;So  nice  .  ..  Trying  to  take  the  awful  damp  out  of  the  air,  darlings,  by  burning  a  bit  of  me  per-  fume.  An  old  [REDACTED]  trick.  ...  Dare  we  tryfor  some  tea?  Life  is  so  difficult,&quot;  she  added,  making  a  face  in  the  direc-  tion  of  the  kitchen  door.  Perhaps  I  make  her  sound  vapid.  She  was  not.  She  was  intuitive  and  had  a  gift  for  understanding,  or  if  not  under-  standing,  for  a  kind  of  sympathy;  put-  ting  herself  wholly  in  one's  place  and  surrounding  herself  with  an  indignant  loyalty  that  became,  for  me,  like  an  oasis  in  the  desert.  After  the  first  of  the  times  I  was  invited  up  to  Mrs.  Bogden's  bedroom  I  was  never  again  to  feel  alone  in  my  aspirations,  my  longing,  and  my  pain.  &quot;But  of  course,  darling,&quot;  she  had  said  earnestly,  bending  the  gaze  of  her  intelligent  gray  eyes  upon  me.  &quot;Of  course  you  must  find  a  way  to  attract  Giles!  I  know  so  exactly  your  feeling.  It  must  all  have  been  too  frustrating.  We  must  arrange  something.&quot;  We  would  often  sit  in  that  bedroom  f  to  which  she  had  brought,  from  the  oth-  er  world,  a  touch  of  richness,  a  sense  of  luxury.  The  chairs  we  sat  in  were  low,  square,  covered  in  pale  satin,  without  arms;  one  sank  into  them.  On  one  table  stood  Mrs.  bottles-square,  round,  tapering,  or  chunky.  On  the  other  were  placed  signed  photographs  of  her  friends  abroad.  &quot;Violet  Rutland&quot;  was,  I  learned,  the  signature  of  a  duchess.  There  were  pictures  of  Carol  and  Ma-  dame  Lupescu;  of  Leopold  of  [REDACTED];  of  Otto  of  Hapsburg;  and  one  signed  &quot;Edward  P.&quot;  These  two  tables  were,  to  me,  like  altars  to  the  new  god  I  wor-  shipped.  &quot;But  of  course  you  must  visit  his  mother  next  summer,&quot;  Mrs.  Bogden  would  agree.  &quot;We  must  make  you  ut-  terly  enchanting  for  her.  I  used  to  know  Marna  slightly  when  she  was  Wall.  I  know  she'd  adore  you,  with  your  pretty  eyes  and  divine  skin.  We  must  arrange  something  that  will  make  a  little  more,  p'raps,  of  your  looks.&quot;  Her  eyes  would  move-not  in  judgment,  I  felt,  but  in  compassion-over  me,  and  then  across  the  room  that  she  had  made  so  cozy  to  the  window.  'They  would  rest,  briefly,  on  the  scene  outside-the  roofs  of  the  Sturgis  cottage  next  door,  the  bare  rocks  of  Clam  Point  in  the  sunshine,  and,  be-  yond,  the  coldblue  sea.  Her  eyes  would  return  to  me.  &quot;This  fall,  p'raps,  we  must  run  over  to  New  York?  Stay  at  the  angel  Ritz,  don't  you  think?  And  have  a  bit  of  fun  in  the  shops?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes!&quot;  I  would  reply.  Hope  had  been  born  again  in  my  heart,  and  trust" b"where  there  had  been  despair.  It  was  Mrs.  Bogden  who  had  saved  me.  I  realize  now,  thirty  years  later,  that,  with  the  egotism  of  youth,  I  never  tried  to  turn  the  talk  to  any  other  subject  but  me.  Possibly  I  would  not  have  thought  myself  worthy  to  bring  up  such  a  sacred  topic  as  Mrs.  Bogden  herself.  Certain-  ly,  in  those  days,  I  believed  her  to  be  invulnerable.  Though  I  never  thought  consciously  about  it  at  all,  unconsciously  I  must  simply  have  assumed  that  any-  one  so  wonderful  as  she  must  be  happy.  Her  philosophy,  as  it  reached  me  in  its  application  to  my  problems,  was  one  of  happiness.  &quot;But,  darling,  I  know  so  well!&quot;  she  often  cried.  &quot;Life  is  so  diffi-  cult,  and  all  one  wants  is  to  have  f-u-n,  isn't  it?&quot;  It  occurs  to  me  now  that  she  always  put  these  beliefs  of  hers  in  the  form  of  questions,  as  on  the  morning  when  we  sat  together  on  the  dock  in  the  dissolving  mists  and,  to  something  I  must  have  said  about  how  unhappy  I  had  been  before  I  met  Giles  and  her,  she  said,  ''The  way  to  be  happy  is  to  be  always  in  love,  don't  you  think?&quot;  I  remember,  as  well,  how  she  would  get  to  her  feet  after  one  of  our  sessions  and  walk  away  from  chair  or  weathered  board  step,  singing;  tall,  exquisitely  thin,  dressed  with  quite  another  sort  of  sim-  plicity  from  our  [REDACTED]  simplicity-the  simplicity  of  perfection.  I  think  of  her  in  that  crimson  tweed  skirt  and  jersey,  with  a  string  of  chunky  pearls  clasped  with  afake  ruby;  pearls  in  her  ears;  on  her  feet  shoes  made  for  her  at  Hell-  stern's  in  [REDACTED],  and  sheer  lisle  stockings  &quot;for  the  country,&quot;  with  openwork  clocks  running  up  the  ankles.  Her  gray  hair  made  a  delightful  shape,  her  large  gray  eyes  were  clear  and  lively,  her  mouth  was  painted  dark  red.  &quot;  Love-may-  come-to-anyone!'  &quot;  she  sang  as  she  walked  away.  &quot;  'The  best-things  in  life-are  free.  .  .  .}&quot;  EEDLESS  to  say,  my  infatuation  did  not  pass  without  comment  from  my  family.  For  example,  at  sup-  per  out  on  the  screened  porch  one  stormy  evening  when  the  candles  flick-  ered  and  guttered  in  their  blue-and-  white  china  candlesticks,  Betsey  said,  &quot;How's  your  crush,  Lucy?  Taught  you  how  to  make  your  fingernails  look  like  claws  dipped  in  blood  yet?&quot;  I  flushed.  &quot;That's  disgusting!&quot;  I  said.  &quot;You  always  take  the  most  ig-  norant,  stupid,  [REDACTED]  attitude  to  Mrs.  Bogden.  She's  just  above  your  compre-  hension,  that's  all.&quot;  &quot;'You  can  have  her,&quot;  Betsey  said.  &quot;Joe  Worthington  says  she  was  known  all  over  Europe  as  an  adventuress.&quot;  &quot;It's  a  lie!&quot;I  cried.  I  threw  my  nap- " b"kin  down  on  the  table  beside  my  plate.  &quot;She's  wonderful,  and  beautiful,  and  understanding,  and  kind!  Which  is  more  than-more  than-&quot;  But  I  could  never  express  myself  with  the  violence  of  the  words  that  spoke  in  my  head.  &quot;Lucy!  .  .  .  Betsey!&quot;  Motherwas  like  a  moderator  calling  the  meeting  to  order.  &quot;Control  yourselves.  Betsey,  even  if  a  person  in  our  midst  seems  neither  what  we  should  call  wise  nor  distin-  guished,  that  is  no  excuse  for  repeating  defamatory  tales.  Both  of  you!  Be  still!&quot;  We  sat,  after  our  family  custom  of  calling  for  a  silence  to  put  an  end  to  dis-  cord,  while  the  salt  air  of  evening  slapped  the  backs  of  our  necks  and  our  bare  arms;  we  saw  the  light  on  Badger's  Island  flash,  at  regular  intervals,  through  the  dusk.  Mother,  at  the  head  of  the  table,  sat  erect  as  ever;  Father  sat  at  the  other  end,  his  long  back  hunched  over,  crumbling  a  roll  between  his  fingers.  Betsey  had  turned  her  gaze  away  from  me  onto  her  plate.  Sudden-  ly  she  cried,  &quot;Mother!  How  can  you  be  so  unfair?  Mrs.  Bogden  is  just  the  sort  of  person  you  disapprove  of  most,  and  yet  you  won't  let  me  say  anything  against  her!&quot;  &quot;You  may  express  your  disapproval  if  you  like,&quot;  Mother  said.  &quot;Only  you're  not  to  condemn  anyone.  Or  spread  scandal.  And  if  you  should  ever  find  me  taking  an  uncharitable  attitude  toward  anyone,  I  hope  very  much  that  you  will  call  my  attention  to  it.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  think  Mrs.  Bogden  is  worthy  of  charity,&quot;  Betsey  said.  &quot;She's  a  hardboiled  baby,  if  you  ask  me.  You  don't  imagine  she  gives  you  all  this  fa-  mous  understanding  for  your  own  sweet  sake,  do  you,  Luce?  She's  simply  try-  ing  to  get  to  know  us.&quot;  &quot;Mother!  Do  I  have  to  listen?&quot;  &quot;Betsey,  you're  displaying  an  un-  warranted  vanity,  it  seems  to  me.  'The  person  in  question  is  ordinary,  but  she  may  have  sincere  affection  for  Lucy.  My  hope  is  that  Lucy  is  not  so  in  need  of  affection  that  she  will  settle  for  that  brand  of  it  for  very  long.  But  you  are  not  to  malign  the  person.&quot;  &quot;Mother!&quot;  Betsey  said,  disgusted.  &quot;Why  must  you  always  be  so  God-  like?&quot;  Mother  smiled  and  shook  her  sandy  head.  Then,  I  remember,  she  expressed  one  of  her  most  characteristic  ideas-  the  sort  of  idea,  I  suspect,  uponwhich  she  meditated  at  the  summits  of  those  mountains  she  was  always  ascending.  None  of  us  needs  to  worry  about  being  too  much  like  God,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;But  if  you're  talking  about  charity,  it  has  al-  ways  seemed  to  me  that  God  is  chari- " b"table  not  because  people  are  in  any  way  worthy  of  it  but  because  if  he  wasn'the  wouldn't  be  God,&quot;  T  was  in  August-an  unusually  hot  day-when  the  letter  from  Giles  came,  in  the  morning  mail.  I  read  it,  and  then  hurried  over  to  Mrs.  Bogden's  house.  She  was  sitting  on  the  grass  of  the  front  lawn-none  of  our  nineteenth-  century  cottages  had  modern  terraces  on  a  big  plaid  steamer  rug,  doing  her  toenails  in  the  sunshine.  I  knelt  down  on  the  rug  beside  her,  sankback  on  my  heels,  and  held  my  tongue  while  she  finished  the  infinitely  careful  application  of  deep-crimson  varnish,  Against  the  black  knitted  maillot  she  wore,  Mrs.  Bogden's  legs  and  arms  were  beautifully  brown  and  smooth.  At  length,  she  put  the  brush  back  into  the  bottle  of  polish,  twisted  its  top  tight,  and  smiled  at  me.  &quot;What  troubles  you,  my  sweet?&quot;  she  said.  I  thrust  the  letter  at  her,  and  at  the  same  moment  divulged  its  contents  in  a  burst.  &quot;It's  Giles!  He  wants  to  come  here!  He  had  some  terrible  row  with  his  mother's  husband.  I  think  the  Duke  knocked  him  down.  And  he  left,  and  wrote  this  from  [REDACTED].  He  wants  to  come  and  stay  with  us,  before  college  opens,  and  what  shall  I  do?&quot;  Mrs.  Bogden  gazed  at  me  earnestly,  took  the  letter  from  my  hand,  and  read  it.  She  ran  the  ball  of  her  thumb  absent-  mindedly  over  the  address  at  the  top  of  the  first  page,  and  put  the  letter  slowly  back  into  its  envelope.  &quot;What  a  beast  Fallchester  is,&quot;  she  remarked.  &quot;''The  boy  really  is  in  a  jam,  poor  child.  Life  is  so  difficult,  isn't  it?  I  think  it'd  be  good  for  him  to  come  here.  There  are  times  when  one  does  need  utter,  utter  rest.&quot;  &quot;But  he  can't  stay  at  our  house!&quot;  I  cried.  &quot;Freezing  to  death  at  meals  out  on  that  horrible  porch?  Playing  bean-  bags?  With  Betsey  always  snooping  around?  And  Mother  preaching  at  us  all  the  ti556e6974656420537461746573;  I  swallowed  hard.  It  was  the  first  time  I  had  ever  criticized  Mother  outside  the  family,  and  my  words  sounded  profane  to  me.  I  hur-  ried  past  them.  &quot;Giles  has  never  seen  anything  so  absolutely  awful  as  the  way  we  live!  He  won't  know  what  to  make  of  it.  He'll  never  want  to  see  me  again.&quot;  My  idol  smiled.  &quot;I'll  put  him  up,&quot;  she  said,  and  as  she  spoke  it  was  as  if  honey  and  bliss  were  dropping  from  her  lips.  &quot;I'd  love  to  have  the  poor  child.  I'll  give  a  little  party,  for  one  of  the  nights  he's  here.  Something  a  little  amusing,  p'raps?  And  plan  an  evening  " b"at  the  Magnolia  Casino?  Take  lunch  to  Queen's  Island,  and  a  bit  of  cham-  pagne:  And  when  there's  nothing  more  diverting,  dine  down  at  the  fisherman's  dive  in  Clam  Depot,  just  for  fun,  don't  you  think?&quot;  &quot;Oh,  yes,&quot;  I  breathed,  once  more  resurrected.  &quot;That  would  be  wonder-  ful.  ...&quot;  \xe2\x80\x98  WE  come  now,  in  this  string  of  old  memories,  to  a  scene  which  my  mind  always  tends  to  avoid,  but  which  I  force  myself  to  face.  We  are  all  on  the  beach  at  Clam  Harbor.  I  am  sitting  on  a  huge,  emerald-green  Turkish  towel,  beside  Mrs.  Bogden,  who  has  on  one  of  her  French  maillots-pale  blue,  this  time,  against  her  radiant  tan.  I  suppose  I  myself  must  have  been  wearing  some  dreadful  Annette  Kellerman.  We  are  both  looking  up  at  my  mother,  who  stands  on  the  sand  justat  the  rim  of  the  emerald  towel.  She  is  speaking  about  our  plans  for  Giles's  visit.  She  wears  that  baggy  old  gray  bathing  dress  with  its  rows  of  rust-stained  white  braid;  her  hair  is  in-  adequately  tucked  under  a  gray  rubber  cap.  She  must  have  paused  to  speak  to  us  on  her  way  down  to  the  water's  edge;  perhaps  I  even  called  to  her.  Plain,  aus-  tere,  unmodified  in  any  way  by  fashion,  her  appearance  is  simply  overpowering.  &quot;I  don't  feel  that  itis  suitable,&quot;  she  is  saying.  &quot;Since  you  say  Mrs.  Bogden  has  never  seen  Giles.  It  is  not  as  if  he  were  already  her  friend.  He  is  a  friend  of  ours.  We  have,  Lucy,  guest  rooms  and  to  spare.  If  he's  asked  to  stay  with  us  here  before  college  opens,  do  by  all  means  tell  him  to  come.  But  he  must  stay  at  our  house,  and  fall  in  with  our  normal  occupations  and  amusements  as  any  visitor  might.&quot;  I  realized  that  there  was  nothing  more  to  be  said.  But  Mrs.  Bogden  didn't.  She  said,  &quot;Simply,  dear  Mrs.  Eliot,  I've  so  much  time  on  my  hands,  as  I'm  sure  you've  not.  It  would  give  me  enormous  pleasure  to  arrange  little  amusements  for  the  children-quelques  petits  divertissements;  something  to  ac-  custom  them  to  gaiety-&quot;  &quot;Lucy,&quot;  Mother  said,  &quot;is  accustomed  to  simplicity.&quot;  &quot;But  don't  you  feel,&quot;  Mrs.  Bogden  insisted,  &quot;that  when  one  is  young  and,  so  to  speak,  on  the  verge  of  the  great  world,  one  needs  the  little  helping  nudge,  the  outstretched  hand?  In  short,  something  a  little  different  from  this  rather-simple-life?  Life  is  so  diffi-  cult,  actually.&quot;  But  Mrs.  Bogden  had  made  a  fatal  error.  &quot;Very,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;And  so  there  can  be  no  question  of  having" b"someone  who  is  coming  to  pay  us  a  visit  staying  with  neighbors.  However  kind  their  intentions,&quot;  she  added  politely.  Above  the  burning  yellow  beach  that  ran  for  miles  around  the  curve  of  Clam  Harbor  into  Graniteport  and  so  out  again  to  Badger's  Point,  the  sun  seemed  suddenly  put  out.  Within  a  private  night  I  got  to  my  feet,  shaking  all  over.  &quot;Then  I'll  tell  him  not  to  come!&quot;  I  cried,  stone-blind,  to  the  people  still  out  in  the  sunshine.  &quot;I  don't  want  him  here!  I  won't  have  him  come,  that  Way]  35  There  is  no  record  in  my  memory  of  any  answer  to  my  words.  That  is  the  scene's  end.  But  I  remember  well  what  came  of  it.  I  wrote  to  Giles  that  we  were  going  to  be  driving  around  in  the  White  Mountains  after  the  middle  of  August,  so  we  could  not  have  him  to  stay  beside  the  sea,  but  that  I  looked  for-  ward  to  seeing  him  at  Beacon  Street  after  college  began.  Nobody  told  me,  or  forbade  me,  to  do  this,  or  advised  me  how  to  go  about  doing  it.  It  was  my  solution  to  my  own  problem,  like  a  lid  shutting  on  a  particular  time  in  my  life,  I  NEVER  saw  Giles  again.  He  never  returned  to  Harvard,  but  stayed  in  [REDACTED].  A  year  or  two  later,  after  I  had  already  moved  to  [REDACTED],  I  read  in  a  Los  Angeles  paper  that  he  had  been  married  to  a  Lady  Honor  Wilkes-a  cousin  of  his,  the  paper  said.  In  the  news  photo  she  had  one  of  those  sharp-  ly  chiselled  British  faces  with  short  fair  hair  parted  on  the  side.  I  have  no  idea  whether  they  are  still  married.  Today  I  know  nothing  of  the  world  in  which  people  like  that  live,  nothing;  I  left  even  the  world  of  [REDACTED]  when  I  came  out  here.  I  have  only  been  back  for  Father's  funeral.  Every  winter,  of  course,  Mother  pays  me  a  visit  on  her  way  to  stay  with  Betsey  and  the  grand-  children  in  [REDACTED];  it  is  odd  how  both  Betsey  and  I  have  moved  to  the  corners  of  the  country  farthest  away  from  Bos-  ton.  But  distances  don't  faze  Mother.  She  travels  by  jet,  and  arrives  serene  with  a  copy  of  the  Upanishads  in  her  hand.  She  is  amazing.  She  it  was,  for  example,  who  after  that  year  of  hopeless  struggle  to  keep  going,  ending  by  my  flunking  my  fresh-  man  year  at  Radcliffe,  found  me  this  job  of  mine,  to  which-although  I  don't  mean  to  sound  boastful-everyone  agrees  I  am  so  exactly  suited.  I  have  moved  up  over  the  years,  and  in  spite  of  not  possessing  a  degree,  to  being  as-  sistant  director  of  this  school  for  deli-  cate  children-children  who  are  sent  to  us  from  all  over  the  world,  from  4a6170616e  and  Antibes  and  [REDACTED],  from " b"New  York  and  Middleburg.  They  are  places,  often,  healthy  enough  in  them-  selves;  there  has  been  only  one  lack  in  these  children's  fortunate  lives  to  have  made  their  eyes  hollow  and  their  coughs  hacking.  The  school  is  lodged  in  what  was  once  a  hospital,  in  the  desert  outside  [REDACTED]-a  series  of  adobe  blocks  con-  structed  around  small  patios,  each  with  a  fountain  in  the  middle  and  a  colon-  nade,  off  which  open  eight  to  twelve  rooms.  I  livein  the  one  named  Suguaro,  with  seven  of  the  children  and  two  of  the  younger  teachers.  In  the  daytime  the  sun  is  blazing,  and  the  children  take  $  carefully  supervised  sunbaths,  spaced  in-  to  their  schedules  so  that  they  will  get  them  before  eleven,  when  the  sun  be-  comes  dangerous.  In  the  evening  the  sun  sets  behind  [REDACTED]  and  T  Moun-  tain.  Night  in  [REDACTED]  has  a  large,  a  sterile  quality-clear  black  air  and  stars  like  arc  lights.  It  is  then,  after  I  have  gone  to  sleep,  that  I  am  sometimes  |  wakened  by  coyotes  out  in  the  desert,  like  a  band  of  mad  nightmare  phantasms  howling  and  laughing,  and  cannot  go  back  to  sleep,  but  lie  here  and  remem-  ber  the  years  of  my  own  youth,  which  g  was  such  a  sheltered  one  and  passed  among  people  who  loved  me.  My  wholesome  background  had,  of  course,  everything  to  do  with  my  being  allowed  to  try  out  at  this  job,  untrained  |&quot;  for  it  asI  was.  It  is  an  axiom  of  the  work  that  if  you  have  never  known  emotional  security  in  your  childhood  you  cannot  possibly  impart  it  to  others.  I  am  one  of  those  lucky  ones  who  are  able  to  say  &quot;My  mother  loved  me,  always,  always.&quot;  Mother  produced  the  opportunity,  in  fact,  that  time  when  I  was  at  my  lowest  ebb,  just  the  way  she  always  did  pro-  duce  whatever  was  needful-as  though  out  of  the  air,  as  though  by  the  Indian  rope  trick.  She  arranged  for  my  inter-  view  with  the  then  director,  Miss  Alden,  who  was  in  [REDACTED],  through  |  one  of  her  myriad  associations  with  worthwhile  people  in  philanthropy,  so-  cial  betterment,  and  child  welfare.  She  saved  me,  at  a  time  when  Giles  |;  had  disappeared  forever  from  my  life,  |  and  when  I  was  ashamed  to  see  Mrs.  Bogden  any  more-embarrassed  to;  as  if,  by  bungling  the  Giles  business,  I  had  let  her  down  too  badly.  I  was  turned  back  on,  reduced  to,  my  own  dreary,  un-  |_  appealing,  unrewarding,  lone  self.  Even  ||  then,  I  realized  I  was  being  saved  from  }:  something,  and  that  it  was  Mother  who  was  saving  me,  after  all,  not  Mrs.  Bog-  |  den.  Sometimes  in  the  early  days  I  used  to  feel  that  by  working  at  this  job  I  was  helping  the  little  boy  Giles  once  was-the  unloved,  the  forgotten,  the" b"suffering  child  of  this  century.  It  didn't  take  me  long  to  realize,  once  it  was  too  late,  that  Giles  would  have  loved  the  life  in  our  Clam  Harbor  house.  It  would  have  been  the  very  life  he  had  always  been  starved  for.  Any  rebellion  I'd  ever  felt  toward  it  seemed  to  expire,  as  though  with  a  little  sigh  of  relief,  as  soon  asI  was  settled  in  [REDACTED].  It  was  Mrs.  Bogden,  it  would  appear,  not  me,  who  was  building  up  a  head  of  steam  against  [REDACTED]  in  the  course  of  those  long  t\xc3\xa9te-4-t\xc3\xa9tes  of  ours.  She  never  breathed  a  word  to  me  about  what  must  have  been  her  rising  fury,  but  less  than  three  years  after  the  summer  of  which  I  have  been  writing  she  kicked  over  the  traces,  as  people  put  it  in  the  letters  I  got  from  [REDACTED].  Flew  the  coop.  Bolted.  She  divorced  [REDACTED]'s  father  and  mar-  ried  a  Honolulu  Hutchinson-im-  mensely  rich;  as,  indeed,  Mr.  Bogden  had  been.  But,  I  realize  now,  Mrs.  Bogden  could  not  possibly  have  under-  stood,  when  she  married  Mr.  Bogden  in  [REDACTED],  about  556e6974656420537461746573ians  and  their  attitude  to  money.  For  them  it  is  not  something  to  lavish,  or  even  to  spend.  It  is  something  to  nurture,  like  a  plant.  It  is  a  sacred  trust.  In  any  case,  itis  nothing  with  which  to  have,  as  Mrs.  Bogden  would  have  said,  f-u-n.I  used  to  have  a  vision  of  how  she  must  have  looked  as  she  boarded  the  [REDACTED]  section  of  the  Twentieth  Century,  Reno-  bound.  I  saw  her  close  the  door  of  the  compartment  behind  her,  pull  the  little  hat  off  her  gray  hair,  take  a  handful  of  bills  from  her  Herm\xc3\xa9s  purse  and  throw  them  up  into  the  air,  stretch  her  arms  out,  throw  back  her  lovely  head-  so  like  the  powdered  head  of  an  eight-  eenth-century  king's  mistress-and  ex-  claim,  &quot;God!&quot;  But  I  had  never  actually  seen  Mrs.  Bogden  since  I  left  [REDACTED],  until  I  went  to  San  Francisco  last  week  to  meet  the  boat  the  Aylesworth  child  was  sent  to  us  by,  from  [REDACTED].  The  Aylesworth  child  is  typical  of  our  pupils-stiff  with  tension  from  the  violent  emotions  rich  parents  seem  to  spill  around  them  like  largess:  desire  and  hate  and  jealousy  and  malice  and  anger  and  more  desire.  If  they  could  only  see,  if  they  could  just  grasp,  that  their  conflicts  are  all  their  children  have  to  use  as  nourishment!  What  can  a  child  know  of  feeling  but  what  it  feels?  The  Aylesworth  child  was  sent  to  us  alone,  which  again  is  typical.  The  reasoning  would  be,  Noth-  ing  could  possibly  happen  to  her  on  that  nice,  safe  ship;  if  she's  sick  the  steward-  ess  can  look  after  her,  can't  she?  and,  besides,  the  child's  nota  baby,  she's  eight.  ...  Not  ababy,  just  a  child  who  has  begun  obscurely  to  realize  that  it  is " b"facing  life-life-with  absolutely  noth-  ing  to  face  it  with.  We  here  have  come  to  feel  that  unloved  children  are  often  living  out  their  parents'  conflictsin  a  sort  of  pathetic  attempt  to  offer  some  little  solution,  At  school  we  rage  against  such  parents.  I  had  gone  on  board  to  fetch  her,  and  was  walking  up  the  promenade  deck  toward  her  stateroom-the  Ayles-  worths  would  never  spare  expense,  of  course-when  suddenly  I  saw  Mrs.  Bogden.  She  was  coming  along  the  deck  very  slowly,  on  the  arm  of,I  suppose,  her  husband.  I've  said  already  that  I  know  nothing  of  the  world  in  which  rich  people  navigate;  nowadays,  I  know  no  world  except  the  world  of  sick  chil-  dren;  so  it's  possible  that  many  rich  peo-  ple  look  the  way  this  couple  did,  and  that  if  I  were  more  used  to  them  I  wouldn'thave  felt  so  shocked.  But  the  aging  couple  were  as  fright-  ening  to  me  as  figures  out  of  Hierony-  mus  Bosch.  They  came  toward  me,  not  seeing  me-I  am  not  a  person  anyone  notices-he  in  white  trousers  with  a  pencil  stripe  and  navy-blue  blazer,  she  in  a  cream-white  knitted  costume  and  a  white  broad-brimmed  straw  hat.  Rich  they  looked;  rich,  irritated,  fussy,  with  eyes  as  bright  as  jewels;  cynical,  bored,  unhappy.  But  it  wasn't  any  of  all  that  which  shocked  me,  for  I  have  often  enough  read  such  descriptions  of  world-  ly  people  in  the  pages  of  novels.  What  I  never  read  about  in  any  book,  what  |  gives  me  the  knot  in  the  pit  of  my  stom-  ach,  was  the  look  in  Mrs.  Bogden's  face;  the  look  far  behind  it.  I'd  thought  for  a  moment  of  going  up  to  her,  holding  out  my  hand,  and  saying  &quot;Mrs.  Bogden,  it's  Lucy  Eliot.&quot;  But  the  look  in  the  still  beautiful,  pleas-  |  ure-loving,  powdered  old  face  stopped  me  while  I  peered,  hesitating.  The  look  |  I  am  talking  about  was  adouble  look,  really;  it  wastwo  things  at  once.  Part  of  it  was  fear,  under  the  cream  founda-  |,  tion-fear  like  a  smart  whip  to  brighten  up  the  tiredeyes;  and  part  of  it  was  the  even  deeper-hidden  thing  the  fear  was  of:  death,  holding  the  whip  and  looking  at  me,  right  there  out  of  her  face.I  don't  know  what  manner  of  death.  Just  death.  I  was  too  shaken  to  do  anything  but  hurry  on  along  the  deck.  But  last  night,  back  in  [REDACTED]  again,  I  woke  in  the  middle  of  the  night  and  heard  the  coyotes  howling  and  laughing  crazily  out  in  the  sterile  desert;  and  once  more,  as  so  many,  many  times  before,  my  mind  went  back  to  Clam  Harbor  and  the  days  when  I  was  young.  Once  more  I  seemed  to  be  sitting  on  the  silvery  splintered  boards  of  the  old  dock  in  the" b"morning  cool,  talking  to  Mrs.  Bogden,  who  is  dressed  in  her  favorite  dark  red.  Her  face  is  turned  away  toward  the  sea,  but-lying  in  the  Western  darkness  I  could  hear  her  voice  asking  me,  as  I  have  so  often  heard  her  ask,  &quot;The  way  to  be  happy  is  to  be  always  in  love,  don't  you  think?  Dow't  you?&quot;  She  turns  her  lovely  face  toward  me,  and  this  time  her  face  is  full  of  death.  Suddenly,  for  the  first  time,  I  real-  ized  what  it  was  I  should  have  answered  her.  Within  my  narrow  schoolmis-  tress's  bed  I  felt  my  whole  body  strain  asI  imagined  crying  out,  &quot;No!  No,  it  isn't!  Feel  what  you  ought  to  feel!  Practice  unity  with  all  creation!  Give  yourself  to  the  ocean!&quot;  Because  Mother  was  right,  of  course-about  Mrs.  Bogden  as  about  everything  else.  Today,  at  the  age  of  eighty-three,  my  mother's  face  has  no  death  in  it.  Her  face  is  filled  with  that  life  she  has  believed  in  all  along;  which  always  has  existed  and  ever  shall  exist.  For  a  while  I  lay  there,  awake  in  Ari-  zona,  thinking  with  pride  and  absolute  acceptance  of  my  wonderful  mother,  but  then-such  is  the  unregenerate  hu-  man  ego-I  had  to  turn  my  face  to  the  pillow  and  begin  to  cry.  &quot;What  about  [REDACTED];  I  kept  blubbering  as  I  squeezed  the  pillow  around  my  head  so  that  the  children  should  not  hear  me,  and  smelled  the  curious  scent  that  tears  always  have.  &quot;What  about  all  those  years?  Where  is  my  life?&quot; "