 b"I  HAVE  no  memory  whatever  of  I  the  first  six  years  of  my  life,  when  my  mother,  my  brother,  and  I  lived  with  my  father.  Consequently,  I  can  picture  my  father  as  well  in  the  period  before  I  was  born  as  when  we  were  living  with  him;  my  awareness  of  his  appearance  at  both  times  is  from  photographs.  In  the  early  pictures  he  is  handsome,  especially  in  the  snapshot  taken  in  front  ofthe  Sidney  Lanier  memorial  in  Piedmont  Park,  in  Atlan-  ta,  the  summer  he  and  my  mother  were  married.  'The  United  [REDACTED]  had  en-  tered  World  War  I  three  months  be-  fore,  and  the  other  men  in  the  picture  are  in  uniform.  My  father  is  in  civilian  clothes-a  dapper  white  suit,  a  striped  shirt,  a  bow  tie.  His  straw  hat  is  in  his  hand;  his  thick  brown  hair,  combed  up,  flows  back  from  his  forehead  in  curling  waves.  His  smile,  beaming  from  lips  and  eyes,  gives  no  hint  that  he  had  been  dis-  charged  from  the  Army  the  previous  year  for  his  health.  And  there  was  very  little  wrong  with  him;  he  would  have  been  subject  to  redraft  that  autumn,  but  by  then  Mother  was  pregnant  with  my  brother,  and  married  men  with  children  were  being  deferred.  He  looks  more  serious  in  the  photo-  graph  taken  two  years  later,  in  the  fall  of  1919,  when  Mother  was  pregnant  with  me.  He  is  dressed  in  a  dark  over-  coat  with  a  black  velvet  collar  and  is  not  smiling;  but  his  expression  of  responsi-  bility  seems  almost  acted,  as  though  it  is  an  effort  for  him  to  prevent  a  smile  from  meeting  the  eye  of  the  camera.  His  jaw  is  square,  his  lips  are  full,  his  eye  almost  disconcertingly  direct-the  responsible  father  of  a  family;  but  this,  too,  almost  seems  a  self-dramatized  pose  rather  than  reality.  The  picture  was  taken  in  [REDACTED],  where  he  had  gone  to  work  for  the  Disabled  Ameri-  can  Veterans.  While  he  was  there,  he  and  my  brother  caught  Spanish  influ-  enza;  my  brother  developed  double  pneumonia;  and  Mother,  nursing  both  of  them,  came  down  with  influenza,  too,  and  almost  died.  The  events  also  of  this  period  I  can  picture  as  well  as  I  can  picture  the  ear-  ly  events  of  my  life;  my  awareness  of  both  is  from  having  been  told  about  them.  In  the  spring,  Father  gave  up  his  job  and  returned  to  [REDACTED].  Money  was  short,  and  he  and  Mother  moved  in  with  her  sister,  my  Aunt  Ada,  and  her  husband,  in  a  small  shingle  house  on  Twelfth  Street,  a  block  away  from  the  homeplace,  my  grandfather's  house.  My  mother's  oldest  sister,  Aunt  [REDACTED],  was  visiting  them.  On  the  first  night  of  July,  Mother's  labor  pains  be-  gan,  and  when  it  was  time  for  her  to  go  to  the  hospital,  Father's  automobile  would  not  start.  He  cranked  the  motor  while  Aunt  [REDACTED]  telephoned  for  a  taxi  and  Aunt  Ada  held  Mother's  hand.  The  taxi  was  a  long  time  in  coming.  The  three  women  waited  on  the  front  porch.  My  father,  in  his  shirtsleeves  but  wearing  his  tie  and  straw  hat,  like  the  hero  in  a  James  Montgomery  Flagg  illustration,  remained  at  the  curb  alter-  nately  cranking  and  peering  into  the  dark.  When  the  taxi  finally  arrived,  Aunt  [REDACTED]  and  Father  helped  Mother  onto  the  back  seat.  They  had  gone  only  a  block  when,  as  they  turned  into  West  Peachtree,  the  rear  left  tire  went  flat.  The  driver  stopped  and  said  that  the  tire  would  have  to  be  changed;  they  must  wait  or  get  another  taxi.  But  Mother  was  crying  out  as  though  I  would  be  born  any  minute,  and  Father  said  that  he  would  pay  for  the  tire  but  that  the  driver  had  better  keep  going  if  he  valued  his  life.  On  they  went,  the  flat  tire  flapping,  the  rim  of  the  wheel  cutting  the  rubber  to  shreds.  The  doctor  was  at  the  hospital.  He  examined  Mother,  then  went  out  to  his  automobile  to  fetch  his  case  of  instru-  ments.  A  passing  policeman,  seeing  him  take  them  from  the  back  seat,  arrested  him  as  a  thief.  He  escaped  being  car-  ried  to  the  police  station  by  proving  his  identity,  and  the  policeman  said,  &quot;Is  that  why  that  woman  is  screaming?  I  thought  someone  was  being  mur-  dered.&quot;  It  was  a  hot  summer  evening;  the  hospital  windows  were  open  to  the  street.  Moth-  er  was  weak  from  her  illness,  and  her  cries  went  on  a  long  time.  But  fate  did  not  wish  to  prevent  my  arrival,  only  to  make  it  difficult;  and,  in  the  quiet  hours  of  the  morning,  I  was  born.  It  was  not  characteristic  of  my  father  to  be  present  the  day  of  my  birth,  and  much  of  what  I  want  to  convey  about  him  after  that  day  must  make  its  effect,  as  it  did  in  my  childhood,  by  omission.  But  he  is  present  in  the  snapshots  taken  in  [REDACTED]  the  next  summer,  when  I  was  a  year  old,  his  salesman's  smile  beaming  with  an  attraction  that  is  ir-  resistible;  and  it  is  easy  to  understand  how  he  was  a  success  in  those  days  when  the  commodity  of  personality  had  not  yet  gone  bankrupt.  He  had  been  the  manager  of  the  Hurt  Building,  in  downtown  [REDACTED],  when  he  and  Mother  married,  but  his  true  character  was  that  of  a  salesman,  and  this  is  what  he  became  now,  selling  insurance,  automobiles,  real  estate.  We  lived  in  [REDACTED];  he  travelled  all  over  the  north  of  [REDACTED]  and  the  south  of  [REDACTED].  Money  be-  gan  to  pour  in,  and  although  Mother  never  talked  openly  to  me  about  him,  she  did  say  enough  for  me  to  know  that  it  was  when  he  was  making  money,  rather  than  later  when  he  was  in  finan-  cial  trouble,  that  their  marriage  began  to  break  up.  &quot;There  are  some  people,  I  guess,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;who  cannot  stand  success  and  prosperity,  and  your  daddy  was  one  of  them.&quot;  I  must  have  been  aware  of  the  un-  pleasantness  of  these  years  to  have  for-  gotten  them  completely,  but  in  all  the  photographs  I  myself  appear  as  serenely  happy  as  I  remained  for  a  long  time  to  come-laughing  on  the  sand  at  Day-  tona  Beach,  in  front  of  our  Stevens  Salient  Six  touring  car;  smiling  as  I  hold  up  a  balloon  at  a  children's  party  in  Tifton,  where  we  lived  for  a  while;  frowning  only  in  one  photograph,  in  which  I  am  standing  in  the  sunshine  on  a  cracked  cement  sidewalk,  stark  naked  except  for  a  sun  hat.  But  beginning  with  the  children's  party  photograph,  afterI  have  begun  to  walk,  my  father  almost  disappears  from  the  album.  Everyone  was  making  money  in  those  years,  and  to  him  it  must  have  seemed  that  his  prosperity  was  only  beginning:  that  with  a  little  more  luck,  a  little  more  indifference  to  those  whose  caution  held  him  back,  he  could  have  everything  he  wanted.  You  have  only  to  look  into  his  eyes  in  the  photographs  to  see  that  he  was  full  of  ex-  citement  and  ambi-  tion-not  ambition  in  the  sense  of  desiring  security  but  in  desir-  ing  to  project  himself  onto  as  much  of  the  world  as  possible,  and  to  absorb  as  much  as  possible  of  the  world  into  him-  self.  Security  was  what  he  had-money,  a  wife,  children-and  what  else  could  a  handsome  and  self-confident  man  do,  surrounded  by  so  much  sensual  bounty  and  multiplying  money,  except  go  fur-  ther  and  further  in  pleasures  and  ex-  citements  and  power?  The  answer,  ap-  parently,  was  that  he  could  overextend  himself  and  be  hurt  as  much  as  he  hurt  those  who  tried  to  hold  him  back.  My  father's  brother,  Hesper,  lived  in  [REDACTED]  at  that  time,  and  when  Father  began  to  disappear,  first  for  days  to-  gether,  then  for  weeks,  going  to  another  city  to  escape  the  complicating  alliances  he  had  made,  and  writing  to  Mother  to  " b"slip  out  of  town  and  join  him,  Hesper  was  the  only  near  person  she  thought  of  as  a  friend.  She  often  used  to  tell  me  how  nice  he  had  been.  Each  time  he  came  to  the  house,  he  brought  a  piece  of  candy  or  a  stick  of  chewing  gum  to  me  and  my  brother.  We  would  run  to  meet  him,  jump  into  his  arms,  kiss  him,  and  ask  where  our  presents  were.  And  he,  while  we  reached  in  his  trouser  pockets  and  searched  for  our  gifts,  would  pretend  to  have  forgotten  or  lost  them.  Then  he  liked  to  sit  and  hold  us  in  his  arms  or  on  his  lap;  and  I,  for  my  part,  was  excessively  full  of  affection  and  ready  to  give  it  to  whoever  would  accept  it.  I  have  since  been  grateful  that  my  father's  parents  had  a  son  named  after  the  evening  star.  I  thought  that  my  mother  left  my  father,  and  returned  home  to  [REDACTED]  without  him,  and  I  was  surprised  when  I  asked  her  and  she  told  me  that  he  came  &quot;back  with  her.  Drinking,  neglecting  his  business,  leaving  town  after  town  with-  out  paying  his  debts,  and  doing  what-  ever  else  he  did  during  those  five  years  had  had  their  effect;  his  money  was  gone  by  then.  He  returned  with  us  and  lived  part  ofa  year  in  the  homeplace.  But  of  his  presence  there,  no  matter  how  I  search  my  mind,  I  can  find  no  mem-  ory.  The  only  hint  of  him  I  recall  is  a  conversation  between  my  mother  and  her  oldest  brother,  in  which  she  begged  that  she  herself  should  not  have  to  ap-  pear  in  court  for  her  divorce,  and  that  must  have  been  a  year  after  my  father  was  gone.  Each  summer,  from  the  time  I  was  seven  until  I  was  in  my  teens,  we  spent  a  month  visiting  my  father's  sister  in  the  country,  outside  [REDACTED],  [REDACTED].  Aunt  Winnie  was  particularly  fond  of  my  brother,  who  reminded  her  of  my  father  as  a  child,  and  our  relations  with  her  were  friendly.  But  she  had  no  more  news  of  my  father  than  we  did.  Only  once,  years  later,  did  I  hear  her  tell  of  his  having  turned  up  to  visit  her.  He  looked  healthier  thanhe  had  looked  the  last  time  she  had  seen  him,  and  she  thought  that  he  had  quit  drinking.  It  turned  out  that  he  recently  had  been  released  from  prison;  in  a  fight  in  Flori-  da  he  had  knocked  a  man  from  a  bridge  into  a  river  and  the  man  had  drowned.  The  conclusion  the  family  drew  from  this  was  that  he  was  a  man  who  could  behave  well  only  in  jail-but  I,  turning  it  around,  saw  my  father  asa  man  to  whom  propriety  was  a  prison.  I  DO  not  know  when  I  began  ro-  manticizing  my  father,  but  it  is  clear  that  I  did  it  by  the  simple  process  of  at-  tributing  to  the  person  who  was  missing  the  qualities  that  were  missing  from  the  life  around  me.  Mother  had  ample  justification  for  the  worst  she  thought  of  him.  Among  other  things,  after  they  were  married  she  discovered  that  he  had  been  married  before,  a  fact  that  he  had  never  given  her  a  hint  of.  This  was  sufficient  to  prove  even  to  her  trust,  fulness  that  he  was  not  as  pure  as  his  good  looks  or  as  straightforward  as  his  smile.  And  it  was  natural,  when  he  be-  gan  to  care  for  other  things  so  much  that  he  acted  as  though  henever  had  cared  for  her,  that  she  should  think  back  to  the  year  of  their  marriage,  remember  that  unmarried  he  would  have  been  subject  to  the  draft  again  that  autumn,  and  wonder  how  much  this  had  had  to  do  with  his  love  for  her.  After  we  returned  to  the  homeplace,  two  of  my  mother's  five  brothers  some-  times  came  to  the  house  when  they  had  been  drinking,  soI  was  aware  of  how  unpleasant  the  worst  characteristic  my  father  was  accused  of  could  be.  I  was,  infact,  often  told  that,  with  his  absent  warning  and  their  present  spectacle,  I,  surely,  would  never  drink.  And  it  would  have  been  reasonable  if  I  had  attributed  to  my  fatherthe  disgusting  traits  I  saw  in  them.  But  I  did  not.  One  difference  cancelled  everything:  They  had  stayed  at  home  and  he  hadgone  away  alone.  To  them  I  attributed  weakness  and  to  him  strength.  And  as  a  result,  even  later,  when  I  realized  that  an  unaccept-  able  narrowness  in  their  lives  rather  than  an  inherent  taste  for  drunkenness  caused  their  conduct,  they  remained  the  depository  of  all  the  coarse  traits  that  must  have  been  my  father's  as  well  as  their  own.  This  quality  of  sticking  close  to  home,  which  the  family  considered  loyalty,  appeared  to  me  as  weakness.  My  quali-  ties,  which  the  family  considered  sweetness,  appeared  to  these  uncles  as  weakness,  too;  and  our  rejection  of  each  other  was  complete.  Not  at  the  begin-  ning.  IfI  had  turned  to  Hesper  with  open  arms,  I  turned  to  them  even  more  eagerly  when  I  no  longer  had  even  a  part-time  father.  But  to  my  uncles,  with  a  surfeit  of  children  and  nephews,  and  with  no  paternal  affection  to  spare  but  rather  an  excess  of  responsibilities  and  a  need  in  themselves  for  more  independ-  ence  than  they  could  find,  my  affection  seemed  effeminate  and  weak.  And  they  lashed  out  at  that  weakness  as  though  it  were  the  thing  in  the  world  they  most  feared.  When  I  was  six  they  told  me  of  a  skeleton  named  Bloody  Bones,  who  " b"lived  in  the  attic  and  came  downstairs  into  the  house  at  night.  Then,  when  it  was  dark,  they  hid  behind  the  in  the  hall,  jumped  out,  and  grabbed  me.  No  doubt  I  was  supposed  to  overcome  my  fear  and  be  rewarded  with  their  respect  and  friendship,  but  my  imagination  gave  an  an-  thropomorphous  character  to  the  very  dark  itself.  My  reaction  was  to  scream  with  terror.  Their  laughter  grad-  ually  turned  to  epithets  of  disgust.  I  withdrew  into  myself,  and  witheach  en-  counter  our  mutual  dislike  increased.  Whatever  I  did  not  know  about  my  father,  I  knew  he  was  in  no  way  like  these  men.  He  escaped,  also,  from  being  associated  with  the  reprimands  and  restraints  that  inevitably  fall  upon  one  growing  up.  He  never  talked  to  me  about  the  ne-  cessity  of  eating  food  I  did  not  like,  or  told  me  that  I  should  give  up  certain  pleas-  ures  and  do  certain  things  because  it  was  my  duty  to  do  them  and  that  I  would  un-  derstand  why  when  I  grew  up.  I  never  associated  him  with  the  ridiculous  warn-  ings  of  sexual  hygiene  or  with  the  wor-  ries  about  material  security  by  which  I  was  surrounded  later.  Most  unfairly,  I  never  associated  him  with  those  emo-  tional  difficulties  that  were  specifically  brought  about  by  his  absence.  HERE  remain  the  two  occasions  on  which  I  do  remember  having  seen  my  father.  On  the  first  I  am  not  sure  that  I  knew  who  he  was.  He  came  oneday  to  the  grammar  school  my  brother  and  I  attended.  At  noon  recess  he  spoke  to  us  in  the  gravel  play  yard;  or  rather,I  think  he  spoke  to  my  brother,  who  pointed  me  out  to  him  as  I  sat  on  a  bench  near  the  wall,  eating  the  sandwiches  Mother  prepared  for  us  to  take  to  school  in  brown  paper  bags;  or,  perhaps,  even  refused  to  point  me  out,  for  I  think  my  brother  believed  we  should  have  nothing  to  do  with  him,  and  I  recall  only  a  dis-  tant  man  towering  at  the  edge  of  the  yard  full  of  small  children.  But  the  other  occasion  I  remember  distinctly.  It  was  early  autumn,  when  the  season  is  not  certain  and  summer  and  autumn  days  are  shuffled  together  like  the  red  and  black  cards  in  a  deck.  Mother  had  spent  the  morning  trying  to  decide  whether  or  not  to  wash  her  hair.  This  depended  on  the  weather,  for  when  she  had  washed  it  and  rinsed  it  in  lemon-juice  water,  she  sat  out  in  the  back  yard,  a  white  towel  overher  shoulders  to  protect  her  dress,  and  dried  it  in  the  sunshine.  Her  hair  was  auburn  and  unbobbed,  and  although  she  la-  mented  that  the  sulphur  in  the  water  in  [REDACTED]  had  darkened  it,  in  the  sunshine  the  highlights  always  gleamed.  It  was  Saturday.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  and  the  cook  were  cleaning  the  kitchen.  Mother  ought  to  be  helping  them.  But  if  she  waited  until  Monday  to  wash  her  hair,  it  might  be  raining  again.  Yesterday's  drizzle  had  been  brief,  but  sometimes  this  season  of  the  year  the  rain  lasted  for  a  week.  So,  after  helping  Aunt  [REDACTED]  fill  a  wooden  crate  from  the  grocery  store  with  trash  and  carry  it  out  to  the  back  yard  to  make  a  bonfire,  she  left  us  in  the  yard  and  went  inside  to  wash  her  hair.  What  a  quantity  of  sticks  there  were  in  those  days  when  everything  was  made  out  of  wood.  And  how  the  wood  blackened  and  crumbled.  The  front  of  the  homeplace  was  kept  more  or  less  in  good  repair,  but  nothing  in  the  back  was  ever  mended.  Where  banisters  had     since?&quot;  been  knocked  out,  the  space  remained,  gaping  like  the  toothless  gap  in  a  mouth;  the  openings  between  the  brick  supports  of  the  house,  higher  than  in  front,  were  partly  covered  by  old  boards,  obviously  used  before  for  something  else;  and  un-  der  the  house  could  be  seen  the  no-  longer-used  inside  shutters  from  the  front  windows,  stacked  in  the  bare  dirt,  losing  their  mahogany  finish.  My  brother  and  I  had  made  a  town  under  one  of  the  large  oak  trees.  It  con-  sisted  of  stones  collected  from  the  yard  and  arranged  along  paths  scratched  in  the  dirt  with  the  end  of  a  broken  ban-  ister.  A  stick  (a  slat  from  one  of  the  blinds  beneath  the  house),  pushed  along  in  the  track  that  it  itself  had  made,  was  a  train  going  to  and  from  other  towns.  We  had  played  at  this  all  morn-  ing.  But  it  was  after  lunch  and  getting  toward  time  for  us  to  have  our  bath  and  go  to  the  movies.  And  Mother  had  been  inside  a  longer  time  than  should  have  been  necessary  for  her  to  wash  her  hair.  I  went  up  the  steps  to  look  for  her,  but  when  I  reached  the  porch,  Aunt  [REDACTED],  watching  from  the  kitchen,  told  me  to  come  in  with  her  and  wash  my  hands  and  face  at  the  sink.  My  brother,  too.  We  protested.  We  were  going  to  " b"bathe  soon.  And  I  wanted  to  find  Mother.  Mother  had  a  visitor,  I  was  told  ,  and  we  were  to  wash  up  and  stay  in  the  back.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  was  solemn  and  curt;  in  bewilderment,  we  obeye  d  h  er.  My  brother  was  looking  out  the  win-  dow,  and  I  was  sitting  in  the  straight  chair  with  the  cowhide  seat,  helpi  n  g  the  cook  string  beans,  when  Mother  came  back.  &quot;Yo  ur  daddy  is  he  re,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;and  want  s  to  see  you.&quot;  He  had  not  been  a  llowed  to  come  in-  to  the  house.  We  w  ere  led  up  the  long  hall  and  out  onto  the  wide,  square-col-  umned  and  balustraded  front  porch,  which  r  an  all  the  way  across  the  house  an  d  halfway  around  on  either  side.  He  wa  s  facing  the  door,  with  his  bac  k  to  the  yard  and  street.  His  ha  ir  was  white,  combed  straight  up  and  f  lowin  g  back  from  his  forehead  in  waves.  His  face  was  red.  Bu  t  he  was  no  t  old;  his  hair  ha  d  turned  white  by  the  tim  e  he  wa  s  thirty,  as  mine  was  to,  and  his  flag-  like  complexion  was  as  much  from  liv-  ing  out  of  doors  as  from  drink.  He  had  brought  my  brother  a  fossil  of  a  starfish,  which  he  now  gave  to  him,  and  while  they  talked  I  stood  back  and  watched.  'Then,  when  he  spoke  to  me,  he  squatted  down  with his elbows on his knees. My face was at the same level as his, and I looked into his blue eyes, large and filled with pink veins across the porcelain like whites, repeating the colors of his hair and face. Mother stood behind us, waiting, but he spoke as though only the two of us were there. He asked me if I knew that he loved me. Then he said that he did. And he told me not to forget it. He was standing at his full height again. Aunt [REDACTED], who has been waiting inside the door, let my brother and me into the house; and, through the living-room window, I watched him speak once more to my mother, turn, and go down the brick walk toward the passing traffic. That was all. His words to me on the porch had been ordinary, the ones called for by the occasion. But I was not reluctant to make the most of the commonplace. I accepted them unreservedly; even\n\n\nif  they  were  perfunctory,  it  made  no  dif-  ference.  When  you  are  given  only  one  crumb,  that  crumb  is  gold.  Nevertheless,  my  acceptance  was  no  climax.  It  had  no  more  positive  effect  on  my  emotions  than  did  my  acceptance  of  the  fact  that  the  world  is  round.  I  did  not  treasure  his  words;  I  did  not  think  of  them.  But  my  not  disbeliev-  ing  them  gave  me  that  much  more  area  of  security,  and  of  unawareness,  to  stand  on.  It  created,  I  be-  lieve,  one  of  the  main  dif-  ferences  between  me  and  my  brother,  for  to  him  the  two  years  more  of  his  mem-  ories  must  have  made  them  sound  hollow  and  false.  And,  just  as  I  did  not  think  of  his  words,  I  did  not  think  of  my  father.  During  the  coming  years,  his  figure  did  not  enter  the  world  I  knew,  any  more  than  he  had  entered  the  house  that  day.  The  attachment  to  him  of  distant  and  romantic  freedoms  took  place  with-  out  my  being  aware  of  it.  And  even  when  I  realized  that  I  associated  him  with  all  those  attractions  that  blossomed  in  flesh  and  flow-  ers  outside  the  house  and  yard  I  knew,  it  was  not  be-  cause  my  thoughts  turned  to  him  but  because  they  turned  to  those  attractions,  and  when  I  wondered  why  and  what  it  was  that  I  seemed  to  recognize  in  them,  strangely  enough  it  turned  out  to  be  the  figure  of  my  father,  which  I  had  created,  unknow-  ingly,  and  without  any  grounds,  except  the  mutual  absence  of  him  and  of  them  from  my  life.  His  image,  formed  in  the  dark  and  under  pressure,  as  diamonds  are,  became  for  me  the  most  attractive  half  of  the  world.  HAT  that  halfof  the  world  be-  came  for  him  I  discovered  twenty  years  later,  in  a  letter  that  should  have  wiped  out  at  one  stroke  all  the  romance,  but  that,  perversely,  was  perhaps  the  most  romantic  touch  of  all.  He  died  in  the  Veterans  Hospital  in  Bay  Pines,  [REDACTED],  from  injuries  received  in  fight-  ing  a  forest  fire.  To  my  brother  and  me,  as  his  legal  heirs,  was  sent  this  list  of  all  his  worldly  remains  and  possessions,  to  claim  if  we  wished:  1  wool  bathrobe  1  comb  1  toothbrush  1  safety  razor  1  pocket  hone  1  pair  bedroom  slippers  1  letter  (no  value)  a  package  of  razor  blades "