 b"I  SUPPOSE  that  when  I  began  to  I  read  with  Mr.  Nyedly  (of  course  his  name  wasn't  really  Mr.  Nyed-  ly),  three  and  a  quarter  years  ago,  I  had  illusions  of  being  unselfish.  Maybe  I  was  bored.  I  keep  aclean  house,  bake  a  pie  or  cake  once  a  week,  look  after  my  hus-  band  and  child,  go  to  P.-T  .A.  meetings,  save  'Top  Value  stamps-in  other  words,  try  to  do  what's  expected  of  me.  But  all  the  time  I'm  thinking,  To  hell  with  it-this  is  not  what  I  want.  So  one  _&lt;}  day  in  October,  when  I  saw  anad  in  the  paper  asking  for  people  to  help  the  blind,  &lt;:]  with  a  telephone  number  to  call,  I  called.  It  was  the  [REDACTED]  Volunteer  Service  Bureau,  down  off  Main  Street,  and  a  Mrs.  Daniels  made  an  appoint-  ment  for  me  to  come  in  the  following  Friday.  On  Friday,  I  drove  into  town  from  North  [REDACTED],  where  I  live.  Mrs.  Daniels  saw  me  at  once,  and  gave  me  a  form  to  fill  out.  It  was  like  applying  for  a  job.  When  I'd  completed  the  form  and  given  it  to  her,  she  said,  &quot;What  would  you  like  to  do?&quot;  I  said,  &quot;I'd  like  to  read  to  blind  peo-  ple.&quot;  I  had  an  ulterior  motive  in  this.  I  thought  of  all  the  books  I  wanted  to  read,  and  of  those  I  had  read  and  wanted  to  go  back  to,  and  I  visualized  a  systematic  method  whereby  I  would  read  aloud  from  them  to  someone  at  a  set  time  each  week.  In  my  mind,  I  saw  myself  checking  each  book  off  a  list  as  I  read  it,  and  it  was  a  worthwhile,  life-  time  project;  I  was  sat-  isfled  with  myself  for  thinking  of  it.  Besides,  there  would  be  the  pleas-  ure  of  sharing  the  book  with  someone  who  might  not  have  a  chance  to  read  it  if  it  weren't  for.  my  project.  Mrs.  Daniels  said,  &quot;We  don't  have  anything  like  that  now.  The  only  thing  you  can  do  now  for  the  blind  is  help  in  one  of  the  weaving  classes  or  go  into  a  class  in  Braille  and  learn  to  teach  it.&quot;  Curiosity  got  the  better  of  me.  &quot;Oh,  T'd  like  that,&quot;  I  said.  Sometimes  I  think  most  of  the  things  I've  done  in  my  life  have  been  done  out  of  curiosity.  And  most  of  these  curiosities  are  traps,  be-  cause  the  responsibility  goes  on  long  after  the  curiosity  has  been  satisfied.  &quot;Well,  that  class  doesn't  start  until  next  February,&quot;  Mrs.  Daniels  said.  \xe2\x80\x9cOh.\xe2\x80\x9d  &quot;Let's  see,&quot;  she  said,  going  through  her  desk  file.  &quot;There  are  a  lot  of  other  &gt;     things  to  do  now.  I  see  you've  been  a  vol-  unteer  nurse's  aide.  When  was  that?&quot;  &quot;During  the  war.  I  went  in  three  afternoons  a  week  after  school.&quot;  There  was  an  old  lady  who  said  her  left  leg  hurt  and  would  I  please  put  a  pillow  un-  der  it,  and  I  reached  under  the  covers  and  felt  around  and  discovered  she  had  no  leg  on  that  side,  but  I  bunched  up  a  pillow  anyway  and  put  it  under  the  leg  that  wasn't  there,  and  said,  &quot;How's  that?,&quot;  and  she  said,  &quot;Much  better,  thank  you.  That's  fine.&quot;  I  remembered  an  Italian  girl  who  screamed  and  begged  for  a  painkiller,  and  when  I  asked  the  nurse  if  she  could  have  one,  the  nurse  looked  at  her  watch-you  could  hear  the  girl  screaming  all  the  way  down  the  hall-and  said,  &quot;It  isn't  time  yet.&quot;  I  remembered  being  in  a  room  where  they  gave  oxygen,  and  a  huge  woman's  flesh  quivering  in  big  bunches,  and  her  gasp-  ing,  hoarse  and  straining,  and  sucking  for  breath.  I  was  there  when  she  died.  Yet,  in  the  midst  of  all  this,  one  day  I  inadvertently  carried  trays  into  a  tele-  phone  booth  beside  the  kitchen  door,  because  I  had  a  crush  on  an  interne.  ''They  always  need  someone  in  the  charity  ward  at  the  Methodist  Hospi-  tal,&quot;  Mrs.  Daniels  said.  &quot;But  it's  a  mixed  ward.  Do  you  mind  working  with  colored  people?&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don't  mind  that.&quot;  &quot;''Then,  at  the  Children's  Hospital  they  need  someone.  Would  it  bother  you  tosee  a  badly  burned  child?&quot;  she  asked  matter-of-factly.  I  didn't  answer.  Mrs.  Daniels  looked  up  and  then  flipped  over  to  another  card.  &quot;I  see  you  taught  danc-  ing.  What  about  can-  teen  work,  teaching  service  men  to  dance-  could  you  do  that?&quot;  &quot;Yes,  I  could  do  it,&quot;&quot;  I  answered  without  enthusiasm,  and  I  thought,  What  a  jump-from  burned  babies  to  teaching  G.I.s  the  cha-  cha.  &quot;'There's  so  much  to  do,  isn't  there?&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  didn't  realize  there  was  so  much.&quot;  &quot;Yes,  it's  endless.&quot;  The  interview  lasted  for  half  an  hour.  I  could  be  a  Gray  Lady  and  write  let-  ters  and  plan  games  and  ward  parties,  or  I  could  join  the  Red  Cross  and  roll  bandages  or  drive  an  ambulance.  (No,  I  couldn't  do  that!)  Or  I  could  sew  garments  for  unborn  infants  of  unwed  mothers,  help  old  people  dress  and  un-  dress,  and  feed  and  bathe  them,  or  type     " b"reports,  or  simply  scrub  floors  and  run  errands.  It  all  sounded  hard  and  un-  interesting  and  monotonous.  At  the  end  of  the  interview,  Mrs.  Daniels  wrote  something  on  a  card  and  handed  it  to  me.  &quot;'Take  this  to  Miss  Evans,  at  Le  Bonheur  Children's  Hos-  pital.  She'll  explain  the  schedule  to  you  and  tell  you  what  your  duties  are.  And  thank  you  so  much  for  coming  in.  We  appreciate  you  so  much.  If  there's  anything  else  I  can  do  for  you,  just  let  me  know,&quot;  Smiling  gratefully,I  thanked  her  and  got  up  and  walked  out.  By  the  time  I  got  to  the  elevator,I  realized  that  she  had  put  me  with  burned  children,  after  all.  I  was  frightened.  Still,  I  was  hooked.  I  had  volunteered.  I  got  home  and  began  reasoning  with  myself.  &quot;You've  got  to  stick  to  your  project,&quot;  I  told  myself  all  the  next  day.  &quot;You  didn't  go  there  to  suffer  and  be  made  to  feel  helpless.  You  went  with  a  very  good  plan,  to  help  yourself  and  someone  else  at  the  same  time.  It's  your  time  you're  giving.  Don't  get  pushed  into  something  you  don't  want  to  do.  There  are  a  lot  of  people  who  like  giving  bedpans  and  being  starchy  and  efficient.&quot;  I  talked  myself  out  of  it,  but  it  took  all  the  fol-  lowing  day.  I  had  to  smoke  two  ciga-  rettes  to  bolster  my  courage,  and  then  I  called  Mrs.  Daniels.  I  let  her  know  that  I  wanted  to  read,  and  nothing  else.  If  they  needed  someone  to  read  to  the  blind,  I  would  do  it.  I  didn't  want  to  do  anything  else.  &quot;We  appreciate  your  calling  so  much,&quot;  Mrs.  Daniels  said.  &quot;I'll  see  what  can  be  done.&quot;  rs.  Danites  called  me  back  the  following  week.  &quot;I've  got  the  most  wonderful  news,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I've  got  someone  who  wants  you  to  read  to  him.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  good!&quot;  I  glanced  at  a  stack  of  Atlantics  and  books  on  the  coffee  table-the  first  part  of  my  project.  &quot;His  name  is  Mr.  Nyedly,  and  he  teaches  a  class  for  the  blind  at  the  low-  income  housing  project.  Isn't  that  won-  derful!&quot;  &quot;Yes,  that's  fine,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Is  he  the  only  one?  I  thought  maybe  several  peo-  ple  could  be  read  toat  the  same  time.  That  would  give  us  more  variety.  They  could  all  make  selections,  you  know,  of  things  they'd  been  wanting  to  read.&quot;  &quot;Well,  Mr.  Nyedly  has  enrolled  in  law  school.  He  started  once  three  years  ago,  but  had  to  drop  out.  He  was  just  delighted  when  Itold  him  I  had  some-  one  who  could  read  to  him.  He  goes  to  night  school  on  Mondays  and  Thurs- " b"days,  so  could  you  read  Tuesdays  and  Wednesdays?  Do  you  think  your  hus-  #  f  band  would  mind  you  being  gone  those  two  nights?&quot;  &quot;No,  he  wouldn't  mind.&quot;  Ted,  my  husband,  is  a  very  understanding  person,  and  Patti,  our  daughter,  was  ten  at  the  time-old  enough  to  be  left  with  her  father  for  two  nights  a  week.  &quot;Mr.  Nyedly's  such  a  pleasant  per-  son,  and  he  has  so  much  ambition.  Do  you  think  you  could  read  the  law  books  all  right?  I  mean,  is  that  what  you  would  want  to  do?&quot;  &quot;Yes,&quot;  I  found  myself  saying.  &quot;I  think  it's  wonderful  that  he's  trying  to  go  to  law  school.  I  would  be  proud  to  help  someone  do  that.&quot;  &quot;Then,  you  call  him  right  away  and  make  the  arrangements  with  him.  You  can  probably  read  to  him  at  the  law  school-that's  Southern  Law  Universi-  ty.  You  know,  on  Adams  Street  right  across  from  Juvenile  Court.&quot;  She  gave  me  Mr.  Nyedly's  telephone  number.  That  afternoon,  I  called  Mr.  Nyedly  and  told  him  who  I  was.  His  voice  was  mild  and  smooth.  We  arranged  to  meet  the  following  day  at  the  main  entrance  to  the  law-school  building.  &quot;Are  you  sure  you  won't  mind  read-  ing  law?&quot;  he  asked.  &quot;Some  of  itis  kind  of  dry.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  no,  I  love  to  read.  I  could  read  anything.  I  could  read  the  telephone  directory.&quot;  &quot;By  golly,  that's  fine.&quot;  Well,  if  something  happens  that  you  can't  make  it  tomorrow,  call  me.&quot;  I  gave  him  my  number.  There  was  a  si-  lence  at  the  other  end  of  the  line.  I  thought  we  had  been  disconnected.  &quot;Mr.  Nyedly?&quot;  No  answer.  &quot;Mr.  Nyedly?&quot;  &quot;Now-now  I've  got  it.&quot;  Got  what,  I  thought.  Then  it  dawned  on  me  that  he  had  been  memorizing  the  phone  number,  that  he  didn't  write  it  down,  the  way  anyone  else  would,  be-  cause  he  wouldn't  be  able  to  read  it.  He  ended  the  conversation  by  saying  he  was  sure  to  be  there  but  it  was  good  to  have  the  number  in  case  anything  ever  came  up  and  he  couldn't  make  it.  I  wondered  how  many  phone  numbers  he  had  in  his  head.  I  was  impressed  with  the  way  he  had  cut  himself  off  completely  until  he  had  the  number  memorized.  I  told  my-  self  that  I  could  learn  a  lot  from  Mr.  Nyedly.  After  talking  withhim,  I  imagined  a  huge,  dark  man  in  a  maroon  smoking  jacket,  with  a  strong,  blind  face  full  of  dignity.  The  voice  didn't  fit  exactly,  but  I  didn't  let  that  bother  me.  Someday  he " b" would  stand  in  front  of  a  jury  and  give  a  magnificent,  stirring  final  summary  of  the  case  at  hand.  He  would  not  plead  or  resortto  cheap  dramatics;  he  would  rea-  son.  The  jury  would  lean  forward  in  their  seats,  hypnotized  by  logic  and  his  blind  dignity.  All  the  rest  of  the  day,  I  was  pleased  with  myself.  HE  next  afternoon,  I  prepared  an  early  supper  for  my  family,  and  I  left  home  a  little  after  four-thirty,  full  of  a  sense  of  mission.  It  was  a  half-hour  drive  to  the  law  school.  I  saw  Mr.  Nyedly  sitting  on  the  steps  as  I  crossed  the  street-a  thin  little  man,  shivering  slightly  in  the  autumn  chill.  He  had  light,  no-color  hair  turning  gray,  and  deep  lines  on  the  expressionless  flesh  of  his  face.  He  was  plain  beyond  imagi-  nation.  &quot;Mr.  Nyedly,&quot;  I  said,  and  I  intro-  duced  myself.  He  stood  up  straight,  holding  his  cane,  and  answered.  The  mild,  gentle  voice  fitted  perfectly.  He  smiled  blankly.  For  a  moment,  I  almost  wished  I  was  with  burned  children,  who  would  shed  real  tears  and  could  be  held  and  com-  forted.  So  it  started.  There  was  a  fumbling  moment  when  Mr.  Nyedly  tried  to  take  my  arm  and  I  tried  to  take  his  and  our  arms  got  tangled  up.  We  went  to  the  side  door  of  the  law-school  building,  to  which  each  student  is  given  a  key.  Mr.  Nyedlyhad  a  whole  ringful  of  keys,  and  I  stood  aside  while  he  felt  and  tried  each  key  in  the  lock.  Then  we  went  in.  I  turned  on  the  lights  so  that  I  could  see,  and  we  walked  along  a  corridor  to  a  lobby  between  two  large,  open  class-  rooms,  and  he  sat  down  on  a  modern  leather  sofa,  while  I  pulled  one  of  the  desk  chairs  out  of  a  classroom  for  myself.  I  began  to  read.  Simpson  on  con-  tracts.  I  read  fifty-four  pages  that  first  evening.  Out  loud.  Well,  I  was  the  one  who  said  I  could  read  the  telephone  di-  rectory.  I  still  think  I  could.  In  a  tele-  phone  directory  you  get  a  name,  ad-  dress,  and  phone  number,  all  in  an  orderly  sequence.  In  a  lawbook  you  get  nothing  but  &quot;unlesses,  &quot;however'&quot;'s,  %f  s,  &quot;buts,&quot;on  the  other  hand&quot;s,  examples  that  contradict  other  exam-  ples,  exceptions,  and  exceptions  to  ex-  ceptions.  For  instance:  Where,  in  the  case  of  successive  con-  veyances,  there  has  been  a  break  in  the  chain  of  assumption.  a  conflict  of  authority  exists  on  the  question  whether  the  mort-  gagee  can  sue  any  assuming  grantee  after  the  break.  To  illustrate:  C  lends  money  to  A  and  takes  A's  note  and  a  mortgage  on  A's  land  as  security.  A  later  sells  the  land  to  B,  who  does  not  assume  the  debt  but" b"merely  takes  the  land  subject  to  the  mort-  gage.  B  sells  the  land  to  D  by  deed  con-  taining  a  covenant  of  assumption.  Can  C  hold  D  on  his  promise  to  pay  the  debt?  By  the  minority  rule  he  may  not.  Add  to  that  the  confusion  of  each  foot-  note,  referring  to  cases  that  had  to  be  looked  up  in  the  library,  on  the  second  floor,  with  each  case  referring  to  at  least  four  or  five  other  cases,  and  by  the  time  I  had  read  fifty-four  pages  I  was  ready  to  blow  my  brains  out.  Driving  home,  I  thought  of  how  I  had  been  planning  to  read  Whitman's  &quot;I  think  I  could  turn  and  live  with  ani-  mals,  they  are  so  placid  and  self-con-  tain'd&quot;&quot;  to  someone.  On  the  seat  beside  me  was  that  bastard  Simpson  and  a  brand-new  fifteen-pound  law  diction-  ary  Mr.  Nyedly  had  purchased.  As  we  took  a  curve,  they  nudged  me.  I  groaned.  I  began  figuring  how  I  could  get  out  of  it.  But  I  knew  I'd  have  to  hang  on  a  decent  length  of  time.  A  month?  A  year?  Six  months?  I  de-  cided  on  six  months.  In  the  meantime,  I  thought,  maybe  Mr.  Nyedly  would  die  or  give  up  or  flunk  out.  Happy  thought.  How  in  the  world  could  he  get  anything  out  of  Simpson  when  I  couldn't  even  understand  it  looking  at  it?  I  READ  to  Mr.  Nyedly  every  Tues-  day  and  Wednesday  evening,  from  :|  about  five  o'clock  to  seven  or  eight.  We  met,  as  we  had  the  first  time,  on  the  front  steps  of  the  law-school  building  and  walked  together  around  to  the  side  entrance.  'The  first  few  times,  I  stood  by  whilehe  tried  the  keys  on  his  ring  until  he  found  the  right  one.  After  that,  he  handed  me  the  keys  and  I  unlocked  the  door.  And  gradually  I  took  on  other  chores.  Sometimes,  toward  the  last  part  of  the  reading,  I'd  look  up  and  catch  him  dozing.  'Then  it  was  time  to  stop  and  have  a  Pepsi.  There  was  a  Pepsi  machine  in  the  lobby,  and  at  first  Mr.  Nyedly  would  go  over  to  it  and  put  the  nickels  and  pennies  in,  open  the  bottles,  and  bring  them  back.  But  after  a  few  times  he  handed  me  the  money  and  said,  &quot;Let's  have  a  Pepsi,&quot;  and  I  got  them.  At  first  when  I  went  upstairs  to  the  li-  brary  for  the  books  we  needed,  he'd  go  with  me  and  carry  some  of  the  books,  but  it  got  so  he'd  sit  and  wait  while  I  went  and  brought  them  down  and,  aft-  er  I'd  looked  up  what  we  needed,  took  them  back.  Naturally,  doing  these  little  things  for  Mr.  Nyedly,  I  began  to  feel  protective  toward  him,  and  I  began  figuring  out  ahead  of  time  how  to  make  things  easier  for  him.  We  talked  some  during  our  breaks, " b"or  at  the  end  of  the  reading,  when  I  drove  him  home.  He  told  me  he  had  been  blind  since  he  was  five  years  old.  He  knew  a  lot  ofinteresting  things  andhad  been  to  a  lot  of  places,  and  he  described  things  to  me  the  way  they  had  been  described  to  him,.  Sometimes  on  the  way  home,  we  stopped  for  coffee,  and  I'd  try  to  describe  the  place  we  were  in.  I'd  say,  for  instance,  &quot;This  is  nice.  There  are  big  windows  and  there  are  potted  rubber  trees  standing  around.  It's  very  modern,&quot;  only  realizing  after  I'd  said  it  that  the  word  &quot;modern&quot;  would  have  no  meaning  to  a  person  who  lost  his  sight  at  the  age  of  five.  After  about  a  month,  when  I  felt  I  knew  him  well  enough,  I  asked  him  if  he  could  remember  colors,  and  if  he  could  see  when  he  dreamed,  and  a  few  things  like  that.  He  said  yes,  he  could  remember  colors  but  they  didn't  mean  anything  any  more,  and  that  forten  or  twelve  years  he  had  dreamed  seeing  things,  but  it  happened  very  rarely  now.  I  wanted  to  ask,  &quot;How  do  you  live  with  colors  not  meaning  anything?,&quot;  but  I  never  could.  He  had  a  room  at  the  Catholic  Club,  and  though  I  didn't  ask,  I'm  sure  he  had  never  been  married.  I  often  wondered,  how  do  you  live  com-  pletely  alone,  not  being  able  to  love  or  be  loved  by  anyone?  Yet  he  always  seemed  serene.  He  never  said  a  word  during  the  reading.  Sometimes  I'd  stop  and  ask,  &quot;Did  you  get  that?'  Do  you  want  me  to  go  back  over  that  part?&quot;  And  he'd  say,  &quot;Well,  you  can  go  back  over  that  part.&quot;  But  he  never  stopped  me  or  asked  me  to  go  back  over  anything.  If  I  as-  sumed  that  he  didn't  get  it,  he  agreed  that  he  didn't.  If  I  went  on  and  as-  sumed  that  he  did-well,  he  assumed  it,  too.  He  was  perfectly  agreeable.  Little  by  little,  I  found  out  enough  about  Mr.  Nyedly  to  know  that  he  would  never  die  or  give  up.  He  might  flunk,  but  that  wouldn't  matter.  Hed  just  take  the  course  again.  'That's  what  he'd  done  in  college.  It  took  him  nine  (J  years  to  get  through  college,  because  he  had  to  repeat  some  subjects  three  or  four  times.  I  began  to  have  a  horror  of  his  flunking  his  law  course  even  once.  I  got  very  strict  with  him,  and  began  to  make  him  repeat  certain  passages.  We  didn't  skip  over  one  single  word  that  we  didn't  -  __  know-we  stopped  and  looked  it  up  in  the  dictionary-and  at  the  end  of  every  chapter  I  went  back  over  the  high  points  and  asked  him  questions.  If  he  couldn't  answer,  we  went  back  over  the  text  and  figured  them  out.  When  the  first  ex-  aminations  came,  shortly  before  Christ-  mas,  we  worked  until  midnight  two" b"nights  in  a  row.  If  he  had  failed,  I  think  I  would  have  killed  him.  At  least,  that's  what  I  told  myself.  But  he  didn't  fail.  OU  would  think  that  three  and  a  quarter  years  of  reading  law  would  have  stuck  to  me.  It  didn't,  thank  God,  As  soon  as  a  chapter  was  accomplished,  Iforgot  it.  When  Ted  would  ask  me  a  question  about  something  we'd  studied,  I'd  say,  &quot;I  don't  know.  I  don't  remem-  ber  that  part.&quot;  &quot;Well,  it  looks  like  you  could  re-  member  some  of  it.&quot;  &quot;No,  I  don't  remember,&quot;  I'd  say.  &quot;I  don't  want  to  even  think  about  it.&quot;  There  is  frustration  enough,  I  might  have  said,  in  reading  whole  pages  and  barely  understanding  a  word  you're  say-  ing,  or  in  coming  to  the  end  of  a  sen-  tence  with  your  voice  still  up  in  the  air  expectantly  and  having  to  go  back  over  the  sentence  and  bring  your  voice  down  with  dishonest  finality.  The  trouble  was  that  I  didn't  par-  ticularly  believe  in  what  I  was  doing.  As  I  saw  it,  Mr.  Nyedly  didn't  stand  much  of  a  chance  as  a  lawyer  unless  he  could  get  an  exceptional  secretary,  who  could  do  everything  for  him.  Why,  I  asked  myself,  do  some  people  want  to  be  lawyers?  There  must  be  saner  ways  for  a  blind  man  to  earn  a  living.  And  why  do  some  people,  when  they  don't  particularly  believe  in  what  they're  do-  ing,  keep  doing  it  anyway?  Once,  just  before  we  got  off  the  subject  of  con-  tracts,  I  woke  up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  out  of  a  sound  sleep  and  cried.  Not  for  Mr.  Nyedly,  or  even  for  myself,  but  just  for  the  unreasonableness  of  every-  thing.  You  might  think  that  something  like  reading  to  a  blind  man  three  hours  a  night,  two  evenings  a  week,  would  have  its  compensations,  and  it's  truethat  one  time,  when  a  neighbor  asked  me  where  I  went  every  week  carrying  that  fifteen-  pound  dictionary,I  felt  a  small  glow  of  self-righteousness.  &quot;Oh,  that,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;I  read  to  Mr.  Nyedly.&quot;  &quot;Out  of  a  dictionary?&quot;  &quot;No,  we  read  lawhooks,  too.&quot;  &quot;Why  doesn't  he  read  them  him-  self?&quot;  &quot;He's  blind.&quot;  &quot;Why,  I  think  that's  wonderful.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  it's  nothing.&quot;  I  lied  in  my  teeth,  I  thought  it  was  something.  I  didn't  know  what,  but  something.  She  lied  in  her  teeth,  too,  because  in  my  neighborhood  nothing  means  anything  except  going  to  church;  you  can  sweat  out  your  life's  blood,  but  if  it's  done  outside  the  church  it  means  nothing.  Maybe  that's  one  reason " b"I  kept  on  when  I  wanted  to  quit,  even  after  the  six  months  I'd  set  for  myself;  maybe  I  wanted  to  out-self-righteous  them.  The  first  few  months,  when  I  had  to  turn  down  invitations  for  Tues-  day  and  Wednesday  nights,  I  would  explain  the  reason.  But  I  got  over  that.  I  began  to  think  of  the  reading  as  a  sickness  or  weakness  on  my  part,  and  after  a  while  I  told  no  one.  And  I  got  more  and  more  depressed  about  it.  It's  funny,  but  the  terrible  part  was  never  beforehand;  I  almost  always  left  the  house  feeling  good.  It  was  after-  ward,  driving  home,  that  the  depression  came  over  me.  I  would  think,  Oh,  this  is  terrible!  I  can't  go  through  this  again.  The  reason  might  have  been,  though  this  seems  a  very  small  reason,  that  when  we  went  into  the  building  it  would  be  daylight;  everything  would  be  bright  and  golden;  there  would  be  a  kind  of  lovely,  peaceful  glitter,  trees  blowing,  dogs  barking,  traffic,  people  walking  by-light  and  aliveness.  Then  when  we  came  out,  everything  would  be  dark.  The  day  would  have  changed  to  night.  I  was  always  surprised.  It  never  seemed  that  we  had  been  in  the  empty  law  school,  away  from  the  world,  that  long.  Suddenly  I  would  realize  that  to  Mr.  Nyedly  it  was  dark  when  we  went  in;  to  him  there  was  no  change.  Each  time  driving  home  through  the  dark,  I  realized  that  he  was  blind.  I  seemed  to  have  to  realize  it  over  and  over  again.  WISH  I  could  say  that  when  this  ordeal  came  to  its  three-and-a-  quarter-year  end  I  experienced  unex-  pected  pangs  of  regret,  loneliness  for  the  relentless  schedule.  I  can't.  I  was  glad  when  it  was  over,  and  the  longer  itis  over  the  gladder  I  am.  I  wish  I  could  say  that  I  acquired  a  new  outlook,  a  new  respect  for  the  law.  Nothing  could  be  further  from  the  truth.  The  law  tries  to  be  so  just  that  it  sometimes  isn't  fair.  No  feeling.  Noth-  ing  but  rules,rules,  rules.  I  hate  the  law.  I  wish  I  could  say  that  Mr.  Nyedly  is  on  his  way  to  some  pinnacle  of  achievement.  Sooner  or  later,  hecon-  fided  to  me,  he  wanted  to  go  into  poli-  tics.  Oh  dear,  he'll  getslaughtered.  He  is  such  a  good,  kind  man,  not  very  bright.  Oh,  he  learned  out  of  the  books  fine;  that's  not  what  I  mean.  I  mean  that  he  just  trudges  onward,  slow,care-  ful,  determined.  But  surely  determina-  tion  can  take  you  only  so  far.  Or  I  wish  I  could  say  that  reading  to  him  did  something  to  me,  brought  about  some  inward  change-but  other  than  more  frequent  headaches  and  the " b"fact  that  I  am  now  a  chain  smoker,  I  can't  think  ofa  thing.  Sometimes  I  wonder  how  I  would  have  felt  if  Mr.  Nyedly,  in  a  moment  of  wild  abandon,  had  destroyed  him-  self.  Then  I  could  have  wallowed  in  remorse,  wishing  my  voice  hadn't  droned  on  and  on,  wishing  that  I  had  said  something  especially  comfort-  ing.  I  think  Idid  tell  him  once  that  he  had  been  able  to  accomplish  so  much  that  it  inspired  me;  it  made  me  realize  what  could  be  done  if  one  really  tried.  But  Mr.  Nyedly  never  seemed  to  need  encouragement.  That  was  the  madden-  ing  thing  about  him.  He  never  com-  plained.  He  was  always  cheerful  and  complacent.  He  went  right  ahead  do-  ing  what  he  was  doing,  that's  all.  He  seemed  never  to  have  suffered.  Of  course,  there's  no  way  really  to  know.  He  once  said  that  he  was  lucky  to  have  been  blind  for  so  long;  in  a  lot  of  ways  it  made  it  easier  to  get  around,  and  all.  Still,  I  can't  by  any  stretch  of  my  imagi-  nation  conceive  of  him  in  real  despair.  How  could  that  be?  It  isn't  a  religion  or  any  particular  philosophy;  it's  just  him.  Mr.  Nyedly  asked  me  if  oncehe  got  started  I  would  like  to  try  being  his  sec-  retary  awhile.  &quot;You  can  type,  can't  you?&quot;  he  said.  'Yes,  but  I  don't  take  shorthand,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Besides,  I've  never  been  a  secre-  tary  before.&quot;  &quot;Well,  I've  never  been  a  lawyer  be-  fore.&quot;  He  knew  I  wasn't  smart  enough,  but  I  guess  he  would  rather  have  put  up  with  me  than  get  used  to  someone  else.  Or  maybe  he  was  just  being  polite.  Anyway,  I  refused.  He'll  need  some-  one  who  really  knows  the  law.  I  just  haven't  got  what  it  takes. "