 b"CARNIVAL!  In  the  vacant  lot  C  beyond  the  old  ice  plant!  Trucks  have  been  unloading  all  after-  noon;  the  WhirloGig  has  been  unfold-  ed  like  a  giant  umbrella;  they  assembled  the  baby  Ferris  wheel  with  an  Erector  set,.  Twice  the  trucks  got  stuck  in  the  mud.  Straw  has  been  strewn  every-  where.  They  put  up  a  stage  and  strung  lights.  Now,  now,  gather  your  pennies;  supper  is  over  and  an  hour  of  light  is  left  in  the  long  summer  day.  See,  Sammy  Hunnenhauser  is  running;  Gloria  Behn  and  her  gang  havebeen  there  all  after-  noon,  they  never  go  home;  oh  hurry,  let  me  go.  How  awful  it  is  to  have  parents  that  are  poor,  and  slow,  and  sad!  Fifty  cents.  The  most  Ben  could  beg.  A  nickel  for  every  year  of  his  life.  It  feels  like  plenty.  Over  the  roof  of  crazy  Mrs.  Moffert's  house,  the  Ferris  wheel  tints  the  air  with  pink,  and  the  rim  of  this  pink  mixes  in  excitement  with  the  great  notched  rim  of  the  coin  sweating  in  his  hand.  This  house,  then  this  house,  and  past  the  ice  plant,  and  he  will  be  there.  Already  the  rest  of  the  world  is  there,  he  is  the  last,  hurrying,  hurry-  ing,  the  balloon  is  about  to  take  off,  the  Ferris  wheel  is  lifting;  only  he  will  be  left  behind,  on  empty  darkening  streets.  Then,  there,  what  to  buy?  'There  are  not  so  many  people  here.  Grown-  ups  carrying  babies  mosey  on  the  straw  walks.  All  the  booth  people,  not  really  gypsies,  stare  at  him,  and  beckon  with  reluctant  gestures.  It  hurts  him  to  ig-  nore  the  man  with  the  three  old  soft-  balls,  and  theold  cripple  at  the  merry-  go-round,  and  the  fat  lady  with  her  plaster  Marys,  and  the  skeleton  sus-  pended  behind  a  fountain  of  popcorn.  He  feels  his  walking  past  them  as  pain.  He  wishes  there  were  more  people  here;  he  feels  a  fool.  All  of  this  machinery  assembled  to  extract  from  him  his  pa-  thetic  fifty  cents.  He  watches  at  a  dis-  tance  a  thickset  man  in  earnestly  rolled-  up  shirtsleeves  twirl  a  great  tinselled  wheel  with  a  rubber  tongue  that  patters  slower  and  slower  on  a  circle  of  nails  until  it  stops  between  two,  and  the  num-  ber  there  wins.  Only  a  sailor  and  two  boys  in  yellow  silk  jackets  play.  On  the  backs  of  the  jackets  are  the  initials  of  the  high  school  in  maroon.  Nobody  wins.  The  thick  tattooed  arm  below  the  rolled-up  shirtsleeve  carefully  sweeps  their  nickels  from  a  long  board  divided  and  numbered  as  if  for  hopscotch.  'The  high-school  boys,  with  sideburns  and  spotty  whiskers  on  their  bright  pink  jaws,  put  down  nickels  again  leadenly,  and  this  time  the  man  spinning  the  wheel  shouts  when  it  stops,  seems  more  joyful  than  they,  and  reaches  into  his  deep  apron  pouch  and  pours  before  .  them,  without  counting,  a  perfect  lit-  tle  slipping  stack  of  nickels.  Their  gums  showing  as  if  at  a  dirty  joke,  the  two  boys  turn-the  shimmer  on  their  backs  darts  and  shifts  in  cool  Zs-and  walk  away,  while  the  man  is  shouting,  &quot;Hey,  uhwinneh.  Hey,  uh  winneh;  evvybody  wins.&quot;  His  table  is  deserted,  and  as  his  mouth  continues  to  form  the  loud  words,  his  eyes  lock  Ben  into  a  stare  of  heartbreaking  brown  blankness  that  seems  to  elucidate  with  paralyzing  clar-  ity  Ben's  state:  his  dungarees,  his  fifty  cents,  his  ten  years,  his  position  in  space,  and  above  the  particulars  the  immense  tinted  pity,  the  waste,  of  being  at  one  little  place  instead  of  everywhere,  at  any  time.  Then  the  man  looks  away,  and  twirls  the  wheel  for  his  own  amusement.  The  fifty-cent  piece  feels  huge  to  Ben's  fingers,  a  wide  oppressive  rigidity  that  must  be  broken,  shattered  into  twinkling  fragments,  to  merge  in  the  tinsel  and  splinters  of  strewn  straw.  He  buys,  at  the  first  stand  he  strikes,  a  cone  of  cotton  candy,  and  receives,  with  the  furry  pink  pasty  uncoiling  thing,  a  quarter,  a  dime,  and  a  nickel:  three  coins,  tripling  his  wealth.  Now  people  multiply,  crowd  in  from  the  houses  of  the  town  that  stand  be-  yond  the  lot  on  all  sides  in  black  forbid-  ding  silhouettes  like  the  teeth  of  a  saw.  The  lights  go  on;  the  faces  of  the  houses  flee.  There  is  nothing  in  the  lot  but  light,  and  at  its  core,  on  the  stage,  three  girls  wearing  white  cowboy  hats  and  white  spangled  skirts  and  white  boots.  A  man  also  in  white  and  bearing  a  white  guitar  with  gold  strings  joins  them.  The  legs  around  Ben  crush  him  toward  the  stage.  The  smell  of  mud  mingles  with  the  bright  sight  there.  One  of  the  girls  coughs  into  the  microphone  and  twists  its  neck  so  a  sharp  whine  pierces  from    the  loudspeakers  and  cuts  a  great  cres-  cent  through  the  crowd,  leaving  silence  as  its  harvest.  The  girls  sing,  toetapping  gingerly,  &quot;The  other  night,  dear,  as  I  lay  sleeping,  I  dreamt  I  held  you  in  my  arms.&quot;  The  spangles  on  their  swishing  skirts  spring  prickles  like  tears  in  Ben's  eyes,  but  he  does  not  cry,  merely  coats  the  great  swelling  surface  of  his  joy  with  a  glistening  film.  The  three  voices  sob,  catch,  twang,  distend  his  heart  like  a  rubber  band  at  the  highest  pitch  of  their  plaint.  &quot;.  .  .  I  was  mistaken,  and  I  hung  my  head,  a-and  cried.&quot;  And  then  the  unbearable  rising  sugar  ofthe  chorus  that  makes  his  scalp  so  tight  he  fears  his  head  will  burst  from  sweet  fullness.  The  girls  go  on  to  sing  other  songs,  less  good,  and  then  they  give  way  toa  thin  old  man  in  suspenders  and  huge  pants  he  keeps  snapping  and  looking  down  and  whooping  into.  He  tells  hor-  rible  jokes  that  make  the  nice  fat  ladies  standing  around  Ben-nice  fat  factory  and  dustmop  women  that  made  him  feel  protected-shake  with  laughter.  He  fears  their  quaking,  feels  threatened  from  beneath,  as  if  there  is  a  treacher-  ous  stratum  under  this  mud  and  straw.  He  wanders  away,  to  let  the  words  of  &quot;You  Are  My  Sunshine&quot;  revolve  in  his  head.  &quot;Please  don't  take  my  swnshine  away.&quot;  Only  the  money  in  his  pocket  weighs  him;  get  rid  of  it  and  he  will  sail  away  like  a  dandelion  seed.  E  goes  to  the  booth  where  the  wheel  is  turning,  and  puts  his  nickel  on  the  board,  in  a  square  marked  7,  and  loses  it.  He  puts  the  dime  there  and  it,  too,  is  taken  away.  Squeezed,  al-  most  hidden,  between  the  crusty  trou-  sered  haunches  of  two  adults,  he  puts  down  his  quarter,  as  they  do,  on  the  in-  ner  edge,  to  be  changed.  The  tattooed  man  comes  along  picking  up  the  quar-  ters  and  pouring,  with  his  wonderfully  automatic  fingers,  the  little  slipping  stacks  of  five  nickels;  Ben  holds  his  breath,  and  to  his  horror  feels  his  low  face  catch  in  the  corner  of  the  man's  absent-minded  eyes.  The  thick  solemn  body  snags  in  its  smooth  progress,  and  Ben's  five  nickels  are  raggedly  spaced.  Between  the  second  and  third  there  is  a  gap.  A  blush  cakes  his  cheeks;  his  gray-  knuckled  fingers,  as  they  push  out  a  nickel,  are  trembling  sidewise  at  each  other.  But  the  man  goes  back,  and  spins  the  wheel,  and  Ben  loses  three  nickels  one  after  another.  The  shimmering  wheel  twitters  and  melts,  but  there  is  a  cloud  gathering  between  him  and  it.  When  the  tattooed  arm-a  blue  fish,  an  anchor,  the  queer  word  &quot;PEACER&quot;-  comes  to  sweep  in  his  third  nickel,  he  feels  the  stippled  skin  breathing  thought,  ~  " b"and  lowers  his  head  against  the  expected  fall  of  words.  Nothing  is  said,  the  man  moves  on,  returns  to  the  wheel;  but  Ben  feels  puzzled  pressure  radiating  from  him,  and  the  pointed  eyes  of  a  man  in  a  suit  with  chalk  stripes,  who  has  come  to  stand  at  the  far  side  of  the  stand,  intersect  this  expanding  circle,  and  Ben,  hurrying  to  pour  his  money  down  a  narrowing  crack,  puts  down  his  last  two  nickels,  still  on  7.  The  rubber  tongue  leaps  into  patter-  ing  and  as  the  wheel  whirls,  the  tattooed  man  leans  backward  to  hear  the  one  in  chalk  stripes  talk;  his  tongue  patters  si-  lently,  but  a  tiny  motion  of  his  polished  hand,  simultaneous  with  a  sidewise  stab  of  his  eyes,  is  toward  Ben.  The  rubber  tongue  slows,  flops,  stops  at  9-no,  8.  He  lost,  and  can  leave.  The  floor  of  his  stomach  lifts  queerly.  &quot;Hey  kid.&quot;  The  man  with  stencilled  arms  comes  over.  Ben  feels  that  no  matter  how  fast  he  would  run,  those  arms  would  stretch  and  snare  him.  (\xe2\x80\x98Huhp77  &quot;How  old  are  you,  kid?&quot;  (\xe2\x80\x98Ten.7)  &quot;Whatsamatta  with  ya,  ya  daddy  rich?&quot;  A  titter  moves  stiffly  through  the  immense  adult  heads  all  around.  Ben  understands  the  familiar  role,  which  he  has  undergone  a  hundred  times  with  teachers  and  older  boys,  of  being  a  comic  prop.  He  understands  everything,  and  wants  to  explain  that  he  knows  his  eyes  are  moist  and  his  cheeks  red  but  that  it's  because  of  joy,  not  because  of  losing.  But  this  would  be  too  many  words;  even  the  one-word  answer  &quot;No&quot;  sticks  to  the  roof  of  his  mouth  and  comes  loose  with  a  faint  tearing  noise.  &quot;Here.&quot;  With  his  exciting  expert  touch,  the  man  flicks  Ben's  two  nickels  back  across  the  painted  number  and  digs  into  his  pocket  for  more.  He  comes  up  with  five,  and  drops  four,  but  holds  the  fifth  delicately  between  the  tips  of  two  fingers  and  a  thumb,  hesitates  so  that  Ben  can  reread  &quot;PEACE&quot;  in  blue  above  his  wrist,  and  then  flips  the  fifth  nickel  up  into  his  palm  and  thence  down  with  a  plunge  into  his  dirty  sagging  apron  pouch.  &quot;Now  move  away  from  the  board,  kid.  Don't  come  back.&quot;  Ben  fumbles  the  coins  into  his  hands  and  pushes  away,  his  eyes  screwed  to  the  sharp  edge  of  painted  wood,  and  shoul-  ders  blindly  backward  through  the  legs.  Yet  all  the  time,  in  the  midst  of  the  heat  and  water  welling  up  from  springs  all  over  his  body,  he  is  figuring,  and  calcu-  lates  he's  been  gypped.  Forty,  he  had  the  quarter  and  dime  and  nickel  and  they  gave  him  back  only  six  nickels,  thirty.  The  injustice;  they  pretend  he's  too  little  to  lose  and  then  keep  a  dime.  The  lost  dime  seems  a  tiny  hole  through  which  everything  in  existence  is  draining.  As  he  moves  away,  his  wet  knees  jarring,  try-  ing  to  hide  forever  from  every  sailor  and  fat  woman  and  high-schooler  who  wit-  nessed  his  humiliation,  the  six  nickels  make  a  knobbed  weight  bumping  his  thigh  through  his  pocket.  The  spangles,  the  splinters  of  straw  and  strings  of  light,  the  saw-tooth  peaks  of  houses  showing  behind  the  scattered  white  heads  scented  sweetly  with  mud,  are  hung  like  the  needles  ofa  Christmas  tree  with  the  transparent,  tinted  globes  confusing  his  eyelashes.  Thus  the  world,  like  a  bitter  coquette,  spurns  our  attempts  to  give  ourselves  to  her  wholly.  "