 b"EARLY  one  Friday  morning  in  E  [REDACTED]  last  fall,  midway  through  a  dream  sequence  of  the  type  I  thought  had  gone  out  with  rare-  bit  fiends,  I  wasawakened  by  a  reso-  nant  voice  on  the  phone  identifying  it-  self  as  Lady  Hester  Traphagen.  The  abrupt  juxtaposition  of  two  fantasies  dazed  me,  naturally,  and  I  was  unable  to  make  any  courtly  response.  None  was  needed,  it  appeared,  for  my  caller  came  straight  to  the  point.  Six  days  be-  fore,  she  had  extended  to  our  mutual  friend  Godfrey  Roach  and  myself  an  invitation  to  weekend  with  her  and  Sir  Aubrey  at  their  house  in  Kent.  Had  dear  Godfrey  (whom  she  knew  I  adored  as  much  as  she  did)  relayed  the  message?  I  guardedly  allowed,  short  of  adoration,  that  Godfrey  was  a  love-  ly  person  but  he  had  mentioned  not  a  word  to  me.  Quite,  said  the  lady,  with  a  hint  of  impatience.  Nevertheless,  her  invitation  still  held;  the  two  ofus  were  expected  at  Mealmouth  Hall  the  next  day,  and  I  was  to  arrange  with  Godfrey  to  drive  me  down  in  his  car.  With  a  couple  of  grace  notes  to  indicate  how  radiant  she  and  her  husband  were  at  the  prospect  of  entertain-  ing  us,  Lady  Traphagen  rang  off.  &quot;Good  old  Hester,&quot;  grunted  Roach  when  I  finally  managed  to  reach  him  at  his  office,  an  hour  later.  &quot;Typical  of  her.  Shealways  dragoons  one  likethis  at  the  eleventh  hour.  Still,  I  think  we  might  go,  if  you've  noth-  ing  better  to  do.  Magaif-  icent  Elizabethan  house,  decent  beds,  and  the  food  isn't  too  filthy.  Definitely  the  sort  of  thing  you  ought  to  see.&quot;  &quot;Done  and  done,&quot;  I  agreed,  and  then  a  worri-  some  thought  struck  me.  &quot;The  only  hitch  is,  I'll  need  a  dinner  jacket.  I  didn't  bring  one  with  me.&quot;  &quot;No  problem  what-  ever,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Pop  around  to  Foss  Brothers,  in  Covent  Garden,  and  hire  one-everybody  does.  Here,  my  secretary'll  give  you  their  address.  And  I'll  pick  youup  at  your  hotel  at  eleven  tomorrow.&quot;  As  he  had  predicted,  renting  dress  clothes  in  [REDACTED]  was  sim-  ple  enough,  but,  I  discovered,  rather  abrasive  to  the  ego.  Though  it  took  the  outfitters  only  fifteen  minutes  to  process  me,  it  was  done  coram  populo,  before  a  jury  of  four  other  clients  awaiting  their  turn.  Nobody,  unless  his  name  is  Mickey  Hargitay,  likes  to  have  his  waist  and  chest  measurementsbawled  out  in  pub-  lic,  and  although  utter  courtesy  pre-  vailed,  I  intercepted  plenty  of  Cheshire  grins.  I  also  felt  that  the  garment  selected  for  me  hardly  lived  up  to  the  lofty  pretensions  of  British  tailoring.  Its  Neanderthal  shoulders  and  spiky  lapels  seemed  more  suitable  for  a  rock-'n'-roll  soir\xc3\xa9e  than  for  a  Kentish  house  party.  However,  I  paid  the  requisite  charge,  as  well  as  a  stiff  deposit,  and  left  with  the  assurance  that  the  suit  would  be  deliv-  ered  by  evening.  The  promise  was  duly  fulfilled.  When  I  re\xc3\xa9ntered  the  hotel  at  five,  the  hall  porter  ran  toward  me  waving  a  fibre  laundry  box  that  dis-  played  the  legend  &quot;Foss  Bros.-Hire     Dept.&quot;  in  large  white  letters.  To  say  his  voice  was  audible  at  John  o'  Groat's  would  be  exaggeration,  but  among  the  guests  in  the  lobby  there  was  certainly  no  doubt  where  I  got  my  threads.  As  we  traversed  the  green  belt  of  outermost  [REDACTED]  at  noontime  on  Saturday,  Godfrey  filled  me  in  about  our  hosts-to-be,  whose  lineage  and  be-  neficence,  according  to  him,  were  leg-  endary.  Sir  Aubrey's  manifold  tastes  embraced  politics,  blood  sports,  and  farming;  his  wife,  a  salommi\xc3\xa9re,  was  musical  and  a  tireless  committeewoman.  Furthermore,  confided  my  friend,  with  characteristic  British  candor,  the  Trap-  hagens  were  used  to  scruffy  bohemians  like  myself.  Conformity  was  unknown  at  Mealmouth  Hall.  I  could  stay  in  bed  all  day  if  I  wished  to  or,alter-  nately,  lose  myself  in  the  woods  with-  out  exciting  comment.  Both  extremes,  I  decided  on  reflection,  were  inadvis-  able.  I  would  sleep  a  standard  eight  hours  and  keep  away  from  copses-in  other  words,  behave  in  normal,  bour-  geois  fashion  and  avoid  the  limelight  without  being  mousy.  HAT  with  Godfrey's  insistence  on  sampling  the  pink  gin  at  vari-  ous  historic  pubsen  route,  it  was  midafternoon  when  we  got  to  our  destination.  The  manor  itself,  a  mossy  struc-  ture  the  size  of  a  fireproof  warehouse,  crenellated  and  mullioned  beyond  belief,  surmounted  a  ridge  over-  looking  tenmiles  of  coun-  tryside.  Before  I  could  quite  encompass  its  dimensions,  Sir  Aubrey,  a  florid,  effer-  vescent  party  in  tweeds,  burst  through  thefront  door  to  welcome  us.  &quot;You  chaps  must  be  fagged  out  from  your  drive,  what?&quot;  he  inquired  hos-  pitably.  &quot;I'll  wager  you'd  like  a  liedown  and  a  nice  cup  of  tea  in  your  room,  wouldn't  you?&quot;  Grateful  for  his  quick  understanding,  I  started  in-  side.  Well,  there'll  be  plenty  of  time  for  that  later,&quot;  he  said,  pinioning  my  arm.  &quot;First  we're  going  on  a  short  tour  of  our  hop  fields.  Kent  supplies  one-sixth  of  all  the  hops  used  in  Brit-  ain's  breweries,  you  know.  We've  compiled  some  fas-  cinating  statistics  I'll  show  you  presently.  Right  now,  " b"though,  let's  start  with  the  growing  process,  step  by  step.&quot;  I  cast  an  anguished  glance  at  God-  frey,  but  he  was  too  intent  on  saving  his  own  skin;  mumbling  some  lame  apolo-  gy,  he  twisted  out  of  Sir  Aubrey's  grasp  and  vanished  into  the  house.  In  a  trice,  I  was  bundled  into  a  Land  Rover  and  my  guide  was  jolting  me  through  end-  less  acres  of  the  vine,  explaining  each  minute  phase  of  its  culture  with  pains-  taking  care.  By  the  time  we  completed  our  circuit  of  the  barns,  the  drying  ovens,  and  the  sacking  machinery,  dusk  had  settled  over  Mealmouth,  to  say  nothing  of  my  morale.  A  glum  convic-  tion  seized  me,  as  I  followed  our  host  through  the  dim-lit,  cavernous  rooms  of  the  Hall,  that  I  had  deliberately  put  my  neck  in  a  noose,  In  a  downstairs  sitting  room,  Godfrey,  thoroughly  refreshed  from  his  nap,  was  having  tea  with  Lady  Hester,  a  vinegary,  equine-faced  wom-  an,  and  a  pudgy  couple  named  the  Savitts.  The  awkward  hush  attending  my  introduction  made  me  suspect  that  they  had  just  been  discussing  me.  &quot;I  say,&quot;  said  Lady  Hester,  staring  at  me  as  though  I  were  a  bacteriological  smear.  &quot;It  is  the  most  extraordinary  resemblance,  isn't  it?&quot;  Mrs.  Savitt  exhaled  sharply.  &quot;Un-  canny,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;The  same  undershot  jaw,  the  way  his  nostrils  curve-&quot;  &quot;Er-whose  nostrils?&quot;  I  put  in.  &quot;Hawley  Harvey  Crippen's,&quot;  said  Godfrey  blandly.  &quot;We  were  chatting  about  Lombroso's  theory  of  criminal  types,  and  I  observed  to  our  hostess  that  you  look  very  much  like  him.&quot;  &quot;Well,  better  keep  the  hyoscine  locked  up!&quot;  I  chuckled,  draining  my  teacup  with  the  nonchalance  of  one  who  often  found  himself  mistaken  forthe  noted  uxoricide.  Unfortunately,  some  of  the  liquid  trickled  into  my  windpipe  and  I  went  into  a  coughing  spasm  so  violent  that  I  had  to  excuse  myself.  A  footman  chancing  by  as  I  clung  weakly  to  the  balustrade,  I  asked  him  to  guide  me  to  my  room  and  was  conduct-  ed  to  a  commodious  chamber  in  the  east  wing.  From  its  pargetted  walls,  the  ducal  canopy  over  the  great  double  bed,  and  the  profusion  of  oriflammes,  I  judged  it  to  be  one  reserved  for  persons  of  consequence.  Whoever  had  unpacked  my  overnight  bag,  though,  could  have  had  no  such  illusions  about  me;  my  skimpy  little  store  of  socks  and  lingerie  was  ranged  in  a  neat  row  on  the  bureau  and  my  dinner  coat  folded  over  a  chair  to  plainly  expose  the  Foss  Bros.  label.  Whether  it  was  the  subarctic  tempera-  ture  or  a  delayed  reaction  to  the  scent  of  too  many  hops,  my  teeth  suddenly  began  chattering  as  with  the  ague.    Thinking  to  restore  myself  with  a  hot  tub,  I  turned  on  the  tap  in  the  adjacent  bathroom.  It  had  yielded  barely  three  inches  of  tepid  brown  fluid  when  I  heard  a  discreet  knock  and  the  footman  re-  appeared.  &quot;Beg  pardon,  [REDACTED];  he  said,  with  a  servile  smile.  &quot;Sir  Aubrey  pre-  sents  his  compliments,  and  would  you  mind  not  using  any  more  hot  water,  as  it  strains  the  facilities  of  the  geyser?&quot;  The  flush  of  resentment  his  words  provoked,  added  to  the  sitz  bath,  effec-  tively  dissipated  my  chill,  and  as  I  pre-  pared  to  descend  to  dinner,  arrayed  in  my  rented  plumage,  I  felt,  if  not  re-  laxed,  at  least  less  alien  to  the  back-  ground.  My  self-confidence,  it  turned  out,  was  premature.  Congregated  in  the  library  were  a  dozen  or  so  of  the  local  landed  gentry  and  their  wives.  All  of  them,  without  exception,  had  been  reared  in  the  saddle,  and  though  they  made  every  effort  to  be  civil,  it  was  in-  stantly  apparent  to  them  that  I  could  not  distinguish  a  surcingle  from  a  snaffle  bit.  One  leathery  old  harridan  finally  could  contain  herself  no  longer.  &quot;Damn  it  all,  sir,  you  people  must  ride  in  America!&quot;  she  expostulated.  &quot;We've  seen  your  cowboys  on  the  telly!&quot;  &quot;'Yes,  yes,  Aunt  Agatha,&quot;  a  young  woman  temporized,  &quot;but  it  seems  that  this  boffin  doesn't.&quot;  &quot;'Why  not?&quot;  snapped  the  elder.  &quot;What's  wrong  with  him?  Is  he  a  Bolshie  or  something?&quot;  The  entrance  of  Lady  Hester  in  full  fig,  blazing  like  a  Forty-seventh  Street  jeweller's  window,  luckily  diverted  at-  tention  from  me,  and,  after  proper  lubrication,  we  proceeded  to  the  table.  For  the  greater  part  of  the  meal,  my  ignorance  of  horseflesh  condemned  me  to  sit  in  frozen  Trappist  silence.  Then  the  conversation  veered  around  to  the  theatre,  a  milieu  with  which  I  was  rela-  tively  familiar,  and  I  essayed  a  couple  of  anecdotes  that  established  me  as  a  raconteur,  or  would  have  had  I  been  able  to  recollect  their  point.  Lady  Hes-  ter's  passion  for  music,  as  Godfrey  had  described  it  on  our  journey  down,  I  dis-  covered  to  be  utterly  without  founda-  tion.  The  woman  had  never  even  heard  " b"of  Earl  Hines,  Ziggy  Elman,  and  Pee  Wee  Russell,  let  alone  such  artists  as  Peanuts  Hucko  and  Muggsy  Spanier,  and  when  she  began  rhapsodizing  about  Frank  Chacksfield  and  Ray  Noble,  I  realized  I  was  dealing  with  a  Hottentot  and  cut  her  adrift.  Perhaps  it  was  pique  at  my  unmasking  her  pretensions,  or  again  merely  provincialism,  that  prompt-  ed  her  next  question.  Turning  to  me  a  few  seconds  afterward,  she  asked  whether  Godfrey  had  misinformed  her-did  I  really  own  a  farm  in  Tran-  sylvania?  Contrary  to  what  she  might  suppose,  I  replied,  with  an  acid  smile,  I  was  zot  Count  Dracula-any  more,  I  added  pointedly,  than  I  was  Dr.  Crip-  pen-and  the  farm,  at  last  reports,  was  in  [REDACTED].  Discerning  in  me  an  adversary  to  be  reckoned  with,  as  well  as  without,  Lady  Hester  took  excellent  care  not  to  cross  swords  with  me  again,  and  I  was  allowed  to  finish  my  dinner  undisturbed.  I  had  innocently  imagined  that  once  our  savories  were  disposed  of,  the  gen-  tlemen  would  retire  to  the  billiard  room  to  exchange  ribaldries  while  the  ladies  devoted  themselves  to  crochet.  Noth-  ing  so  prosy  was  in  store.  At  a  sudden  signal  from  Lady  Hester,  the  entire  company  was  herded  back  into  the  li-  brary,  equipped  with  pencils  and  paper,  and  marshalled  into  two  teams.  A  sick-  ening  premonition  smote  me  that  we  were  about  to  play  The  Game,  and  I  groaned  aloud.  To  no  avail.  Within  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  the  remnants  of  my  dignity  stripped  from  me,  I  found  my-  self  asquirm  on  the  floor,  flippers  way-  ing,  feverishly  miming  the  Walrus  in  'Through  the  Looking  Glass.&quot;  It  was  a  doubly  painful  experience,  because,  in  spite  of  a  graphic  performance,  my  team  was  too  stupid  to  guess  what  I  was  enacting,  and  we  were  roundly  trounced.  To  compound  the  humilia-  tion,  Godfrey  drew  me  aside  when  the  guests  had  gone,  and,  exhibiting  more  of  his  confounded  British  candor,  took  me  to  task  on  several  counts.  &quot;Bad  show,  old  man,&quot;  he  said  bleak-  ly.  &quot;Never  thought  you'd  let  down  the  side  this  way.  Lady  Hester's  in  a  dread-  ful  wax  about  you.  I  daresay  it'll  be  years  before  I'm  asked  back  to  Meal-  mouth.&quot;  &quot;What's  all  the  uproar  about?&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;I  can't  see  thatI've  done  anything  to  get  so  excited  about.&quot;  &quot;Well,  since  you  force  me  to  say  it,  I  quite  understand  Hester's  agitation,&quot;  Godfrey  retorted.  &quot;A  man  walks  in  here  looking  exactly  like  Hawley  Har-  vey  Crippen,  runs  the  bath  water  all  afternoon,  and  then  turns  up  in  a  din-  ner  jacket  a  coster  wouldn't  put  on  his  back.  Great  Scott,  where  on  earth  did  you  ever  find  such  a  costume?&quot;  &quot;At  Foss  Brothers-the  place  you  sent  me  to,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Well,  if  you'd  had  an  ounce  of  in-  itiative,  you  wouldn't  have  gone  there,&quot;  he  countered.  &quot;I  didn't  realize  you  were  such  a  sheep.  At  any  rate,  the  situation  isn't  altogether  hopeless.  I've  interceded  in  your  behalf  with  Sir  Au-  brey.&quot;  The  latter,  he  went  on  to  ex-  plain,  had  consented  to  let  me  remain  another  day  on  condition  that  I  refrain  from  bathing  and  wear  a  dress  suit  bor-  rowed  from  one  of  his  grooms.  The  main  thing,  Godfrey  emphasized,  was  that  I  must  try  to  make  a  better  show-  ing  when  we  played  The  Game  the  next  evening.  &quot;You  mean  we  have  to  go  through  that  again?&quot;  I  faltered.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;They  hold  the  big  test  match  here  every  Sunday.  The  whole  neighborhood's  coming  in.&quot;  My  hands  began  to  twitch  uncontrol-  lably,  and  I  asked  how  one  usually  spent  Ctir\xc2\xbb  (ee  ha..     the  Sabbath  at  Mealmouth.  &quot;I  believe  Sir  Aubrey's  taking  you  under  his  wing,&quot;  he  replied.  &quot;'The  old  boy's  dead  keen  on  hops,  you  know,  and  he  wants  to  show  you  all  the  intricacies  of  rais-  ing  'em.  Worthwhile  experience,  I'm  told.  Shouldn't  miss  it  if  I  were  you.&quot;  Twenty  minutes  later,  I  finished  changing  into  mufti  in  my  room,  opened  a  window,  and  leaned  out  gingerly  to  explore  the  ivy  twining  up  the  wall.  The  vines,  to  my  touch,  seemed  as  sturdy  as  cables;  they  could  sustain  a  weight  twice  my  own.  I  swung  over  the  sill,  and,  clambering  down  noise-  lessly,  dropped  intoa  gravelled  path  be-  low.  Between  the  darkness  and  the  unfamiliar  terrain,  it  was  an  eternity  before  I  crept  out  of  the  grounds  onto  a  paved  road  bordered  by  cottages.  Thanks  toa  kindhearted  publican,  a  lorry  driver,  and  several  other  Samari-  tans,  I  stumbled  into  my  hotel  in  [REDACTED]  just  as  day  was  breaking.  At  two-thirty  that  afternoon,  I  was  awak-  ened  by  a  resonant  voice  on  the  phone  I  had  no  trouble  identifying.  &quot;Look  here,  old  man,&quot;  it  said  anxiously.  &quot;This  is  Godfrey  Roach  calling  from  Mealmouth,  in  Kent.  We've  been  frightfully  concerned  about  you.  What  ever  happened?&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  began,  &quot;I'll  tell  you  .  ..&quot;  I  trust  I've  told  him. "