 b"IS  anybody  aware  that  next  year  will  I  mark  the  one-hundredth  anniver-  sary  of  &quot;Mrs.  Beeton's  Book  of  Household  Management&quot;?  Do  any  of  the  mature  matrons  who  owe  their  moral  and  practical  excellence  toIsa-  bella  Beeton  plan  to  commemorate  the  occasion?  Are  Mrs.  Beeton's  publishers  hurrying  to  prepare  a  new,  centennial  edition  of  her  1,997-page  masterwork,  to  be  printed  on  vellum  and  launched  with  a  fanfare  of  national  advertising?  The  terrible  answer  to  all  of  these  ques-  tions,  I  fear,  is  No.  We  live  in  an  era  when  the  problems  of  Modern  Woman  are  everywhere  discussed,  but  modern  women  no  longer  turn  to  this  treasure  house  of  female  wisdom.  My  wife,  for  example,  will  not  give  it  shelf  space  with  Fannie  Farmer,  Dr.  Spock,  and  Harry  Stack  Sullivan-three  authors  whose  essential  teachings  are  all  com-  bined  in  Mrs.  Beeton's  single  work.  In  fact,  she  does  not  even  care  to  discuss  the  matter  with  me,  ever  since  our  little  flareup  in  the  kitchen  last  Saturday.  I  had  rediscovered  Mrs.  Beeton  in  the  attic  that  morning,  as  I  was  rum-  maging  through  an  old  trunk  for  cor-  respondence  between  Mrs.  Patrick  Campbell  and  Bernard  Shaw  (there  wasn't  any).  At  first,  when  I  leafed  through  the  huge  volume  and  paused  over  the  end-paper  advertisements  for  such  items  as  Bumsted's  Royal  British  Table  Salt,  Hayward's  Military  Pickle,  Proctor's  Pinelyptus  Pastilles  (&quot;Ma-  dame  Sarah  Bernhardt  recommends  them  to  her  friends&quot;),  and  the  Ewbank  Comprehensive  Carpet  Sweeper  (&quot;seizes  everything  that  can  lie  upon  or  hide  within  a  carpet-dust,  sand,  mud,  crumbs,  dog  hairs,  confetti,  or  work-  room  litter  ...  a  Ewbank  gives  her  time  for  better  things  than  at  first,  the  book  seemed  merely  quaint,  a  charming  curiosity  out  of  the  dead  past.  But  as  I  probed  deeper  into  its  \xc2\xa980,000  square  inches  of  closely  packed  information,&quot;  I  began  to  comprehend  the  sheer  scope  and  magnificence  of  the  author's  undertaking.  T  his  was  no  mere  cookbook,  despite  its  1,592  pages  of  recipes  and  culinary  lore,  with  special  chapters  on  &quot;Colonial  and  Foreign  Cookery&quot;  so  that  &quot;Britons  living  under  other  skies  may  learn  how  to  combine  the  dishes  of  their  adopted  country  with  those  of  the  Motherland.&quot;  No,  Mrs.  Beeton  aimed  much  higher.  Her  in-  tention  is  clear  throughout  the  book,  whether  she  is  discussing  how  to  &quot;main-  tain  the  sightly  appearance  ofa  joint&quot;  at  table  or  warning  that  young  female  servants  should  not  be  &quot;forced  to  spend  " b"their  spare  time  out  of  doors,  often  in  driving  rain,  possibly  in  bad  company.&quot;  Her  intention  is  nothing  less  than  to  place  her  concept  of  Household  Man-  agement  at  or  very  near  the  summit  of  human  achievement-in  the  realm  of  Statecraft  and  Organized  Religion.  Utterly  ravished  by  this  splendid  woman's  style  and  by  the  absolute  se-  renity  of  her  judgment  in  all  matters,  I  brought  the  book  downstairs  to  show  my  wife,  only  to  find  that  she  was  out  shopping.  I  was  seated  at  the  kitchen  table  engrossed  in  Chapter  I  (&quot;'The  Mistress&quot;  )  when  she  staggered  in  the  door,  laden  to  the  Plimsoll  line  with  groceries.  One  of  the  brown  paper  bags  she  carried  was  leaking  eggs,  and  two  of  our  children  were  calling  her  atten-  tion  to  this  fact.  &quot;Listen,&quot;  I  cried,  raising  one  hand  for  silence  and  reading  aloud  the  cele-  brated  opening  sentences  of  the  book,  &quot;  &quot;The  functions  of  the  mistress  of  a  house  resemble  those  of  the  general  of  an  army  or  the  manager  of  a  great  busi-  ness  concern.  ...  Among  the  gifts  that  nature  has  bestowedon  woman,  few  rank  higher  than  the  capacity  for  do-  mestic  management-'  &quot;'  &quot;I  wonder  if  I  might  have  a  little  help,&quot;  my  wife  said  in  a  low,  unrecep-  tive  voice.  I  carried  in  the  rest  of  the  groceries  from  the  car,  and  while  we  were  putting  them  away  I  tried  to  com-  municate  some  of  the  enthusiasm  I  felt  over  finding  Mrs.  Beeton.  I  was  sure  that  my  wife,  caught  as  she  and  so  many  of  her  friends  are  in  that  bleak  middle  ground  between  higher  education  and  low  back  pain,  could  not  helpbutbe  cheered  by  these  superb  phrases  that  make  us  see  what  a  high  calling  the  housewife  enjoys,  after  all.  Even  then,  though,  I  seemed  to  sense  a  certain  un-  responsiveness  in  her  attitude.  Eager  to  give  her  the  full  flavor  of  the  original,  I  sat  down  again  and  read  aloud  a  pas-  sage  on  page  9  that  had  struck  me  as  particularly  modern  in  its  appeal.  &quot;'Times  have  changed  since  1766,  &quot;  I  read,  &quot;  'and  in  few  things  is  the  change  more  marked  than  in  woman's  sphere;  but  a  woman  should  not  be  less  careful  in  her  management  or  blameless  in  her  life  because  the  spirit  of  the  age  gives  her  greater  scope  for  her  activities.  Busy  housewives  should  be  encouraged  to  find  time  in  the  midst  of  domestic  cares  for  the  recreation  and  social  intercourse  which  are  necessary  to  the  well-being  of  all.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;Recreation,&quot;  said  my  wife,  &quot;is  for  recreative  people,  like  you.&quot;  I  decided  not  to  read  further  until  she  had  changed  her  attitude.  But  when  she  sent  the  children  upstairs  to  get  washed " b"for  lunch,  and  then  turned  on  me  with  ||  a  somewhat  accusatory  recital  of  her  day  thus  far,  starting  with  the  fact  that  she  had  been  awakened  at  5  a.m.bya  child  who  wanted  to  know  what  was  wrong  with  Channel  4,  I  could  not  re-  sist  a  Beetonism.  &quot;  'Early  rising,  &quot;  I  recited,  &quot;  'contributes  largely  to  good  Household  Management;  she  who  prac-  tises  this  virtue  reaps  an  ample  reward  both  in  health  and  prosperity.  &quot;  I  could  sense  an  ominous  silence  gathering  within  my  wife,  but  by  now  I  had  fallen  so  deeply  under  Mrs,  Beeton's  spell  that  I  couldn't  stop  quot-  ing  her.  It  seemed  to  me  that  no  matter  what  subject  arose,  Mrs.  Beeton  had  the  final,  definitive  comment  to  make  on  it.  When  the  children  thundered  down-  stairs,  unwashed,  for  lunch,  and  were  sent  back  again  complaining  bitterly  of  the  tyranny  of  parents,  I  could  only  call  after  them  that  &quot;  'Many  diseases  would  be  less  common  than  they  are  if  the  pores  of  the  skin  were  kept  open.'&quot;  They  returned,  still  grumbling,  and  I  cheerily  advised  them  not  to  &quot;  'dwell  unduly  on  the  petty  annoyances  and  trivial  disap-  pointments  of  the  day.'&quot;  When  they  asked  to  take  their  lunches  upstairs  to  be  devoured  in  front  of  television,  I  was  adamant:  &quot;  It  is  far  betterfor  children  to  have  their  principal  meal  in  the  com-  pany  of  their  mother  and  other  members  m  of  the  family'&quot;  When  asked  why,  I  replied,  just  as  firmly,  &quot;  'Many  little  vulgar  habits  and  faults  of  speech  and  manner  are  avoided  by  this  compan-  ionship.'  &quot;  The  older  boy  made  a  vulgar  sound  at  that  very  moment,  thus  prov-  ing  Mrs.  Beeton's  point.  MANAGED  to  get  through  lunch  without  further  recourse  to  Mrs.  Beeton,  but  afterward,  when  the  chil-  dren  had  been  dispersed  and  my  wife  was  scraping  bubble  gum  out  of  the  dishwasher,  I  could  feel  the  book's  Vic-  torian  certainties  enveloping  me  again.  My  wife  suggested  that  we  have  some  friends  in  after  dinner,  saying  she  felt  the  need  to  talk  to  adults  at  some  point  during  the  day.  Ignoring  this  veiled  crit-  icism  of  my  own  conversation,  I  nodded  gravely  and  pursed  my  lips.  &quot;  'Hospi-  tality  should  be  practised,&quot;  &quot;  I  agreed,  &quot;  'but  care  must  be  taken  that  the  love  of  company,  for  its  own  sake,  does  not  be-  come  a  prevailing  passion;  such  a  habit  is  no  longer  hospitality,  but  dissipation.&quot;  &quot;  &quot;I  wouldn't  talk  about  dissipation  if  I  were  you,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Not  after  your  per-  formance  the  othernight  at  the  Earles'.&quot;  &quot;  'In  former  times,&quot;&quot;  I  countered,  &quot;  'when  the  bottle  circulated  freely  amongst  the  guests,  the  ladies  retired  earlier  than  they  do  at  present.  Thanks, " b"however,  to  the  changes  time  has  wrought,  strict  moderation  is  now  in-  variable  amongst  gentlemen.&quot;  Oh,  and  by  the  way,&quot;  I  added,  &quot;have  we  any  rock-candy  syrup?&quot;  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Why?&quot;  &quot;For  the  Martinis.&quot;  She  turned  around  to  stare  at  me  and  sank  down  on  a  stool.  &quot;It's  right  here  in  the  book,&quot;  I  ex-  plained.  &quot;'There's  a  whole  section  on  American  Drinks-fascinating  stuff.  Mrs.  Beeton  says  they're  'chiefly  re-  markable  for  the  many  ingredients  which  enter  into  their  composition,  and  the  extraordinary  names  bestowed&quot;  on  them.  I  thought  we'd  just  try  her  Martini.  ...&quot;  I  should  have  known  better,  of  course.  My  wife  is  frightfully  particular  about  some  things,  and  a  Martini,  to  her,  is  the  vital  link  to  that  ever-receding  world  of  adult  conversation.  Foolishly,  I  read  out  the  recipe.  Mrs.  Beeton's  Martini  included  &quot;4  a  wineglassful  of  good  unsweetened  gin,  14  a  wineglass-  ful  of  Italian  vermouth,  6  drops  of  rock-  candy  syrup,  12  drops  of  orange  bitters,  1  small  piece  of  lemon  peel-&quot;  I  got  no  further.  One  look  at  my  wife's  face  told  me  that  the  petty  an-  noyances  and  trivial  disappointments  of  the  day  had  temporarily  triumphed.  She  was  no  longer  the  general  of  an  army  or  the  manager  of  a  great  business  con-  cern.  She  was,  I  realized,  in  a  state  of  shock.  Rapidly  flipping  over  the  pages  to  the  chapter  on  &quot;Home  Medicine,&quot;  I  located  &quot;Shock&quot;  on  page  1,876.  &quot;Give  hot  drinks,  tea  or  coffee,&quot;  I  read.  &quot;Loosen  all  tight  clothing,  and,  finally,  if  the  patient  is  conscious,  cheer  him  up  as  much  as  possible.&quot;  As  I  loosened  her  clothes  and  cheered  her  up,  my  wife  was  suddenly  seized  by  a  fit  of  wild  and  immoderate  laughter.  Recognizing  the  symptom  immediately,  I  turned  to  &quot;Hysteria,&quot;  on  page  1,874.  Mrs.  Beeton  recommended  &quot;Change  of  scene,  cheerful  society,  physical  exercise,  and  the  cultivation  of  mental  control  ...  especially  the  two  latter  means.&quot;  &quot;Let's  take  a  walk,&quot;  I  urged.  &quot;We'll  both  cultivate  mental  control-I  prob-  ably  need  it  as  much  as  you  do.  We'll  go  out  and  buy  a  Ewbank  Comprehen-  sive  Carpet  Sweeper.&quot;  Controlling  her  laughter,  my  wife  rose  and  guided  me  gently  to  the  sink,  where  I  was  handed  a  Brillo  pad.  The  lunch  dishes  disappeared  in  seconds.  The  roar  and  gurgle  of  appliances  shook  the  house.  The  general  had  returned  to  the  fray,  and  Mrs.  Beeton  returned  to  the  attic.  Household  Management,  however  I  looked  at  it,  continued  as  be-  fore. "