 b"A GOOD  many  years  ago,  Ir-  ving  [REDACTED]  and  I  went  to  Atlantic  City  together  to  work  on  a  musical  show  for  the  Marx  Broth,  ers-all  seventeen  of  them.  We  had  adjoining  rooms  at  the  hotel,  and  along  about  the  second  week  Irving  woke  me  up  at  five  o'clock  one  morning  to  sing  me  a  song  he  had  just  finished.  Now,  Irving  has  a  pure  but  hardly  a  strong  voice,  and,  since  I  am  not  very  strong  myself  at  five  o'clock  in  the  morning,  I  could  not  catch  a  word  of  it.  Moving  to  the  edge  of  thebed,  he  sat  down  and  sang  it  again,  and  again  Ifailed  to  get  it.  Just  when  it  looked  as  though  he  would  have  to  get  into  my  bed  before  I  could  hear  it,  he  managed,  on  the  third  try,  to  put  it  across.  The  song  was  the  little  number  called  &quot;Always,&quot;  and  its  easy-  going  rhythms  were  just  up  my  street.  I  learned  it  quickly,  and  as  dawn  broke  we  leanedout  of  the  window  and  sang  it  to  the  Atlantic  Ocean-its  first  per-  formance  in  any  hotel.  It  was  destined  to  be  sung  millions  of  times  after  that,  and  invariably  better.  That  task  done,  we  then  talked  about  it.  At  the  time,  I  was  woeful-  ly  ignorant  of  music,  and  by  dint  of  hard  work  over  the  years  I  have  managed  to  keep  myself  in  the  same  innocent  state.  To  this  day,  I  do  not  quite  know  the  difference  between  Handel's  &quot;Largo&quot;  and-well,  Largo's  &quot;Handel.&quot;  But  I  have  always  felt  that  I  knew  a  little  something  about  lyrics,  and  I  was  presumptuous  enough  then  to  question  Ir-  ving's  first  line,  &quot;I'll  beloving  you,  always.&quot;  &quot;Always,&quot;  I  pointed  out,  was  a  long  time  for  romance.  There  were  al-  most  daily  stories  to  that  ef-  fect  in  the  newspapers-stories  about  middle-aged  husbands  who  had  bricked  their  wives  up  in  the  cellar  wall  and  left  for  [REDACTED]  with  the  maid.  I  suggested,  therefore,  that  the  opening  line  be  just  a  little  more  in  accord  with  reality-  something  like  &quot;I'll  be  loving  you  Thursday.&quot;  But  Irving  would  have  none  of  it.  He  was,  he  said,  an  incurable  roman-  ticist-as  opposed  to  my  being  an  obviously  curable  roman-  ticist.  So  he  went  his  own  way  and  celebrated  the  permanent  nature  of  love,  and  the  history  of  the  song  business  will  show  that  he  was  darned  right.  My  interest  in  lyrics,  mistaken  though  it  was  in  that  instance  and  discouraged  though  it  was  by  Irving,  did  not  lag.  Not  long  before  turning  out  &quot;Always,&quot;  Irving  had  written  the  song  bearing  the  somewhat  implausible  title  of  &quot;When  the  Midnight  Choo-Choo  Leaves  for  Alabam'.&quot;  Like  &quot;Always,&quot;  it  swept  the  country.  Irving's  lyric  glorified  the  enchanted  moment  when  that  choo-  choo  pulled  out  of  the  station  for  Ala-  bam'.  With  a  view  to  checking  up  on  the  facts  of  the  situation,  so  that  I'd  be  able  to  make  suggestions  to  Irving  about  the  realism  of  this  lyric,  I  turned  up  in  [REDACTED]  Station  at  a  quarter  to  twelve  one  night  for  that  wonderful  and  glorious  departure.  The  first  thing  I  found  out  was  that  there  was  no  midnight  choo-choo  for  Alabam;  the  choo-choo  for  Alabam  left  at  twelve-nineteen.  Well,  I  was  not  too  worried  about  that.  Clearly,  Irving  could  not  have  written  a  song  entitled  &quot;When  the  Twelve-nineteen  a.m.  Choo-Choo  Leaves  for  Alabam'.&quot;  Next  I  ,discovered  that  the  platform  was  crowded  with  songwriters,  slapping  each  other  on  the  back  and  uttering  39  shrill  cries  in  praise  of  Alabam&quot;,  &quot;where  the  rhyming  is  easy.&quot;  Between  times,  they  were  bidding  tearful  farewells  to  their  dear  old  mothers,  who  had  moved  up  from  Alabam&quot;  twenty-five  years  be-  fore  and  were  living  contentedly  on  West  Seventy-second  Street.  Some  of  the  poorer  songwriters,  who  had  not  yet  had  a  big  hit,  were  sad  to  behold.  Get-  ting  a  piano  into  an  upper  berth  is,  at  best,  a  difficult  job.  But  I  did  learn  one  thing  about  it-always  get  the  stool  up  first,  so  you'll  have  someplace  to  sit  while  you're  waiting  for  the  piano  to  get  there.  The  moment  of  departure  was  noisy  and  gay.  The  happy  song-  writers,  jauntily  singing  their  songs,  could  be  observed  at  every  window  as  the  train  pulled  out.  The  mothers  went  happily  back  to  Seventy-second  Street.  I  gave  a  lusty  cheer  myself,  and  was  de-  lighted  to  have  witnessed  the  whole  happy  scene.  I  learned  afterward  that  the  song-  writers  all  got  off  at  [REDACTED],  took  the  Hudson  Tube  back  to  [REDACTED],  and  were  safely  in  Lindy's  by  one-thirty.  I  never  told  Irving  about  that,  butever  since  then  I  have  not  quite  believed  everything  I  heard  in  a  song  lyric.  "