 b"THE  oldest  male  person  living  in  my  grandparents'  house  in  Atlan-  ta,  in  which  I  grew  up,  was  my  cousin  Carl,  who  was  nine  years  older  than  I  was.  On  spring  afternoons  when  I  was  eight  or  nine  and  my  cousin  was  seventeen  or  eighteen,  he  used,  after  having  spent  the  morning  dressed  in  gym  shorts,  practicing  javelin  throwing  in  the  side  lot,  to  lie  in  the  swing  on  the  front  porch  and  study.  He  was  fresh-  ly  bathed,  wearing  clean  cotton-khaki  trousers  and  anopen  shirt.  His  knees  were  propped  up  and  a  bare  stretch  of  hairy  leg  showed  between  his  white  socks  and  thetan  cuffs  of  his  trousers.  While  he  was  lying  there,  I  took  great  pleasure  in  sneaking  up  and  grabbing  his  pencil,  or  giving  the  swing  a  push,  or  jerking  one  of  the  hairs  out  of  his  leg.  The  fear  of  being  caught  by  him  filled  me  with  joy.  As  fast  as  I  could,  I  rushed  to  the  front  steps  and  down  intothe  yard.  Then,  if  I  was  not  chased,  I  waited  awhile  and,  stooping  down  so  that  I  could  not  be  seen  from  the  swing,  stole  around  to  the  steps  that  were  on  the  side  of  the  house,  at  the  far  end  of  the  porch,  and  watched  him  from  there.  When  I  bothered  him,  my  cousin  would  reach  out  and  try  to  catch  me,  or  even  jump  up  from  the  swing  and  chase  me  a  few  steps.  Sometimes  he  would  shout  at  me  to  go  away  and  leave  him  alone.  But  if  he  was  in  a  good  mood,  he  would  lie  with  his  algebra  or  trigonom-  etry  book  held  in  one  hand  against  his  knees,  his  other  hand  resting  inert  across  his  stomach  or  along  the  wooden  edge  of  the  swing,  and  pretend  to  be  lost  in  concentration  on  the  page  he  was  studying.  I  realized  that  his  strategy  was  to  feign  unawareness  in  order  to  catch  me.  Cautiously,  at  a  safe  distance,  still  breathing  heavily  from  my  exertion  and  in-  haling  the  odor  from  the  pear  tree  in  bloom  in  the  side  yard,  or  the  bed  of  jonquils  and  narcissus  that  grew  near  the  rear  steps,  I  would  wait  until  I  saw  some  convincing  sign  of  awareness  or  oblivion  on  his  part.  I  knew  what  would  happen  if  he  caught  me.  He  would  hold  me  with  my  arm  twisted  behind  my  back  until  I  promised  to  go  away  and  leave  him  alone.  He  never  hurt  me,  not  even  when  he  was  angry.  His  anger  took  the  form  of  curtly  warning  me  that  he  was  not  in  the  mood  for  playing  and  that  I  was  to  cut  it  out,  and  this  was  defeat  for  me,  for  it  meant  that  the  game  was  over,  and  after  it  was  over,  there  was  no  rela-  tionship  between  us.  His  mother-who  was  my  Aunt  [REDACTED]-his  sister,  and  he  lived  on  the  second  floor  of  the  house,  my  mother,  my  brother,  and  I  on  the  first.  'The  six  of  us  were  the  only  people  in  the  house,  and,  as  is  necessary  in  such  a  situation,  the  two  families  kept  as  sep-  arate  as  possible  most  of  the  time.  I  was  not  consciously  aware  of  the  fact  that  there  were  no  grown  men  in  the  house.  It  was  almost  as  though  they  did  not  exist.  I  knew  that  my  mother  was  divorced  from  my  father  and  that  he  was  living  somewhere  in  [REDACTED]  (his  exact  whereabouts  was  unknown  to  us  ),  but  Mother  and  Aunt  [REDACTED]  seldom  talked  about  him-not  from  conspiracy  but  naturally,  as  they  did  not  talk  about  razors  and  shaving  cream  and  pocket  hones.  My  uncles  came  to  the  house  sometimes,  but  they  seldom  stayed  for  long.  And  there  were  no  male  teachers  at  the  grammar  school  where  I  and  my  brother,  who  was  two  yearsolder  than  I  was,  went  to  school.  But  I  must  have  had  some  inkling  of  what  was  missing,  and  sometimes  when  my  cousin  was  out  of  the  house  I  slipped  into  the  upstairs  room  in  which  he  slept,  and  prowled  around.  I  did  not  know  what  I  was  looking  for.  I  would  lift  the  discarded  clothes  I  found  on  a  chair,  or  open  the  cabinet  at  the  top  of  his  dress-  er  and  look  at  the  cuff  links,  the  razor  and  shaving  brush  and  styptic  stick  stored  there.  I  walked  around  the  room  very  quietly,  observing  as  I  almost  never  observed  at  that  period,  consciously  taking  in  details  as  though  I  were  a  travel-  lerin  a  foreign  land.  But  when  I  heard  someone  coming  I  slipped  out.  My  cous-  in  and  I  never  became  friends.  I  did  not  learn  any  ordinary  everyday  things  from  him.  And  even  so  simple  an  action  as  tying  my  shoe  I  did  backward,  in  the  reverse  of  the  procedure  a  boy  learns  from  watching  a  man,  for  I  learned  from  seeing  Mother  tie  my  shoe  when  it  was  on  my  foot  and  she  was  facing  me.  THE  house  was  heated  by  fireplaces,  and,  because  there  was  no  man  to  build  and  tend  the  grate  fire  in  our  part,  Mother  did  it.  This  was  not  an  easy  job.  She  let  the  living-room  fire  go  out  each  night  and  built  it  again  each  morning.  No  fender  or  fire  screen  stood  on  the  green  tile  hearth  in  front  of  the  grate;  my  grandfather  had  not  believed  in  them,  and  he  had  instilled  in  Mother  the  conviction  that  if  a  fire  was  banked  overnight  a  live  coal  was  likely  to  pop  out  and  burn  the  house  down,  no  matter  what  precaution  was  taken-a  fear  easy  to  propagate  in  a  city  that  had  once  burned  to  the  ground,  as  [REDACTED]  had.  My  brother  and  I  helped  as  much  as  we  could  by  bringing  in  two  scuttles  of  coal  and  some  kindling  each  evening  before  supper.  But  we  could  not  cut  wood-Mother,  out  of  fear  that  we  would  hurt  ourselves,  would  not  let  us  use  the  axe.  In  the  past,  when  my  grandparents  were  alive  and  all  their  children  lived  at  home,  there  had  been  a  yardman  to  take  care  of  this  work,  and  old  Early,  an  ancient  Negro  who  had  also  worked  for  my  grandfather,  still  came  around  sometimes  and  cut  wood  for  us,  but  he  was  un-  reliable,  especially  in  cold  weather,  and  when  he  failed  to  turn  up  and  we  ran  out  of  kindling,  the  job  of  cutting  it  sometimes  fell  on  Mother.  Early  each  summer,  she  and  Aunt  [REDACTED]  (as  their  father  had  before  them)  took  advantage  of  low  prices  and  ordered  a  rail-  way  carload  of  coal,  which  was  stored  in  the  &quot;coal  house&quot;-a  big  enclosed  space  under  the  serv-  ants'  room,  behind  the  kitchen.  You  entered  the  coal  house  from  the  back  vard-and  the  coal  filled  it  almost  to  the  door.  But  on  the  right,  where  the  axe  leaned  against  the  wall,  enough  room  remained  for  kindling  to  be  stacked.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  did  not  al-  ways  find  it  easy  to  persuade  my  cousin  to  cut  kindling  when  she  wanted  it,  and  so  she  and  Mother  decided  to  fill  this  space     " b"with  as  much  wood  as  possi-  ble  during  the  summer,  and  to  keep  it  in  reserve  for  the  periods  when  old  Early  did  not  show  up.  There  was  no  question  of  buying  wood,  only  of  finding  someone  to  cut  it,  for  we  had  a  large  woodpile,  but  no  one  turned  up  to  cut  it.  My  cousin  had  gone  away  early  in  the  summer,  and  in  June  my  brother  went  away,  too,to  visit  the  relatives  in  the  country  where  we  went  each  summer.  But  I  had  had  risings  in  my  ears,  which  had  to  be  lanced  and  drained,  and  I  still  had  to  keep  on  seeing  the  doc-  tor,  so  my  brother  left  without  me.  For  a  week  I  wandered  about  the  house  and  yard  alone,  hardly  knowing  what  to  do  with  myself,  and  waiting  until  I,  too,  could  go  away.  Then  one  afternoon  a  stran-  ger,  dressed  in  clean  faded  dungarees  and  a  brown  plaid  work  shirt,  stopped  at  the  house  and  asked  for  work.  He  was  lean.  His  age  was  about  that  of  my  youngest  uncle.  And  Mother  and  Aunt  [REDACTED]  decided  that  he  looked  less  like  a  tramp  than  like  a  country  boy.  His  mouth  was  sharply  drawn,  the  whites  of  his  eyes  were  clear,  and  he  had  long,  sunburned  muscles,  none  of  which  went  with  a  shiftless  or  drinking  character.  Besides,  one  of  their  brothers,  who  had  had  a  quarrel  with  his  wife  and  had  spent  the  night  at  the  house,  was  still  there,  so  they  were  not  afraid.  They  told  the  stranger  that  there  was  no  real  work  to  be  done  but  that  if  he  would  go  to  the  woodpile  in  the  back  yard  and  cut  some  kindling  they  would  give  him  some-  thing  to  eat.  The  woodpile  was  a  stack  of  black-  ened  lumber,  half  covered  by  weeds.  It  had  accumulated  from  the  collapse  of  a  number  of  buildings.First  the  doghouse  and  the  fence  around  the  dog  yard  had  been  pulled  down.  Then  the  chicken  house.  Finally,  part  of  the  barn.  None  of  these  had  been  demolished  deliberate-  ly;  they  had  simply  sagged  toward  the  earth  until  my  brother  and  I,  or  our  cousins,  knocked  them  over  in  play,  and  the  loose  boards  had  been  cleaned  up  and  moved  to  this  spot,  which  was  away  from  the  corrugated-tin  garage  and  yet  near  enough  to  the  house  to  be  handy  for  firewood.  Aunt  [REDACTED]  took  the  coal-house  key  from  the  nail  in  the  kitchen  where  it  hung,  attached  by  a  string  to  a  long  narrow  piece  of  wood,  and  went  out with  it  to  the  back  yard,  where  the  young  man  was  waiting.  She  unfastened  the  padlock  on  the  door  of  the  coal  house,  opened  the  heavy  wooden  door,  and  pointed  out  the  axe.  The  young  man  said  &quot;Yes,  ma'am&quot;  to  each  of  her  statements  and  smiled  a  smile  that  showed  his  teeth,  very  pale  and  even.  Then  he  went  to  the  woodpile  and  be-  gan  to  split  beams,  raising  the  axe  all  the  way  over  his  head  and  twisting  his  body  in  an  are  at  each  swing.  I  was  sitting  at  thetop  of  the  back  steps,  watching  him,  when  my  uncle  came  out  of  the  house.  He  was  not  yet  thirty,  but  his  waist  was  already  going  to  fat  and  his  features  were  becoming  soft.  Frowning  at  the  sudden  light,  he  stopped  beside  me  and  said,  &quot;Well,  you  look  pretty  damned  busy.&quot;  I  did  not  reply  and  he  asked,  &quot;What  do  you  think  you're  doing?&quot;  Isaid  that  I  was  doing  nothing.  &quot;Nothing  just  about  to  hell  covers  it.&quot;  Again  I  did  not  say  anything.  The  only  sound  was  that  of  the  axe  against  wood.  &quot;How  oldare  you?&quot;  I  told  him.  &quot;When  I  was  your  age,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;I  could  cut  all  the  wood  needed  here,  and  my  daddy  saw  that  I  damned  well  did  it.&quot;  With  a  loud  &quot;huh,&quot;  he  went  on  down  the  steps  and  acrossthe  yard  to  the  garage,  where  he  had  left  his  auto-  mobile  the  night  before.  I  went  indoors  until  I  saw  his  car  turn  from  the  drive,  way  into  the  street.  Then  I  came  out  again  by  the  front  door  and  went  around  to  the  back  yard.  It  was  a  warm  day.  The  sun  was  solid  and  bright,  casting  shadows  be-  neath  the  oak  trees,  and  in  the  open  lighting  up  the  green  weeds  that  grew  beyond  the  woodpile.  When  I  came  around  the  corner  of  the  house,  I  saw  that  the  man  had  stopped  to  wipe  the  perspiration  from  his  forehead  with  the  sleeve  of  his  shirt.  He  saw  me,  smiled,  and  asked  where  he  could  get  a  drink  of  water.  I  showed  him  an  outdoor  faucet  at  the  side  of  the  back  steps.  As  he  crossed  to  it,  he  asked  me  if  the  person  who  had  left  was  my  father.  I  told  him  that  he  was  my  uncle-my  father  did  not  live  with  us  and  I  did  not  know  where  he  was.  While  the  man  was  drinking,  leaning  over,  and  letting  the  water  run  into  his  mouth,  Mother  called  me  into  the  kitchen  and  gave  me  a  plate  of  food  for  him.  He  took  it  and  sat  down  on  the  ground,  in  the  shade  of  the  largest  oak  tree,  with  his  back  against  the  tree  trunk,  and  I  wandered  away  and  pre-  tended  to  be  interested  in  the  yard.  Halfway  between  the  blackened  beams  of  the  woodpile  and  the  sandy  track  that  automobile  tires  and  water     " b"from  the  broken  rainpipe  at  the  corner  of  the  house  had  made  diagonally  across  the  yard,  there  were  two  round  flower  beds  filled  with  marigolds,  [REDACTED]  poppies,  and  larkspur.  The  man,  pointing  to  them  as  he  ate,  asked,  &quot;Who  made  those?&quot;  I  told  him  that  I  had  made  one  and  my  brother  the  other.  &quot;I  bet  I  can  tell  you  how  you  did  it.&quot;  He  took  another  bite  of  corn  bread,  then  continued,  &quot;First,  you  laid  an  au-  tomobile  tire  down  flat  on  the  ground.  Next,  you  dug  up  the  dirt  inside  it,  and  then  dug  up  some  more  dirt  somewhere  else  and  filled  the  tire  with  it.  Then  you  took  the  tire  away  and  put  that  circle  of  stones  where  it  was.&quot;  He  described  the  process  exactly  as  though  he  had  been  there  watching  when  I  had  made  the  flower  bed,  or  as  though  he  had  been  listening  when  my  aunt  in  the  country  had  told  me  how  to  make  it.  My  surprise  was  obvious,  and  he  smiled.  &quot;My  mother  used  to  make  them  the  same  way,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;We  lived  in  the  country,  in  a  place  very  different  from  here.  There  weren't  any  trees  or  any  grass,  just  dust  everywhere.  But  my  mother  kept  one  flower  bed  like  those  on  each  side  of  the  house.  And  she  drew  up  a  bucketful  of  water  for  them  each  evening,  no  matter  how  much  my  old  man  objected  to  her  using  the  water.&quot;  That  had  been  a  long  time  ago,  he  said.  I  did  not  knowhow  long  a  long  time  meant  to  him,  but  in  the  silence  that  followed,  as  he  took  another  mouthful  of  meat  and  corn  bread,  I  im-  agined  the  time  stretching  around  him  as  bare  and  dusty  as  the  ground  he  had  described.  Then  he  smiled  again  and  asked  me  if  I  had  ever  seen  the  ocean,  I  told  him  that  we  had  been  to  the  seashore  in  [REDACTED]  when  I  was  small  and  we  lived  with  my  father  but  that  I  did  not  remember  it;  and  since  we  had  returned  to  [REDACTED]  to  live  I  had  never  been  farther  away  than  to  visit  my  fa-  ther's  sister,  who  lived  in  the  country,  in  the  opposite  direction  from  the  ocean.  &quot;I  think  you'd  like  the  ocean,&quot;  he  told  me.  &quot;You  ought  to  go  and  see  it  sometimes.  It's  bigger  than  you  can  imagine.  I've  shipped  all  the  way  to  4368696e61,  and  you  don't  see  anything  but  water,  all  the  way  to  the  horizon  all  around  you,  for  three  weeks  at  a  time.  You'd  like  4a6170616e  and  4368696e61,  too.  [REDACTED]  and  4368696e61  and  Ningpo.&quot;  I  had  never  heard  any  of  these  names,  or  even  any  like  them.  I  stood  grinning  at  the  stranger.  Then  he  made  a  funny  little  yapping  noise,  like  a  Pekinese,  and  said,  &quot;That's  T'll  never  forget  you'  in  4a6170616eese.&quot;   As  I  listened,  I  felt  asI  did  when  the  rain  or  the  night  changed  the  familiar  landscape  of  the  backyard  into  a  place  as  different  from  its  usual  self  as  a  for-  eign  city  would  bee-an  alien  feeling  that  seemed  in  some  odd  way  to  connect  me  to  the  stranger.  Since  he  had  left  his  ship  in  San  Francisco,  he  said,  he  had  come  back  across  the  southern  end  ofthe  country,  hitchhiking  or  riding  freight  all  the  way.  The  names  of  the  places  he  mentioned  were  almost  as  un-  familiar  to  me  as  the  place  names  of  the  [REDACTED].  In  Texarkana  he  had  stopped  to  see  his  family,  but  when  he  reached  the  farm  where  he  had  lived  no  one  was  there.  The  doors  and  windows  were  all  open.  There  was  not  a  stick  offurni-  ture  in  the  small  house.  And  of  the  flower  beds  on  either  side  of  the  yard  there  remained  only  the  bare  circles  of  stone.  After  a  pause,  he  smiled  again  and  added,  &quot;I'm  going  to  43616e616461Coast  now  and  take  a  ship  and  see  what  the  Atlantic  looks  like.&quot;  He  gave  me  the  plate  and  I  took  it  inside.  When  I  came  out  again,  he  was  working  once  more,  cutting  up  an  old  cedar  fence  postthat  was  yellow  toward  the  outside  and  red  in  the  center  and  that  filled  the  air  with  a  strong  fra-  grance.  He  called  to  me,  &quot;Come  and  watch  me  and  I'll  show  you  how  to  split  kindling.&quot;  The  post  had  already  been  cut  into  lengths  and  he  was  chopping  up  the  short,  thick  pieces.  He  did  it  care-  fully,  and  I  stood  just  outside  the  range  ofthe  swinging  axe  and  watched  the  wood  somersault  up  into  the  air  and  straight  back  to  earth  as,  with  single  blows,  he  split  the  lengths  into  halves,  the  halves  into  quarters,  the  quarters  into  eighths.  When  he  was  finished,  the  two  of  us  stacked  the  kindling  into  a  neat  pile  in  the  corner  of  the  coal  house,  near  the  door;  then  I  went  inside  and  told  my  mother  that  the  man  was  ready  to  go.  We  came  out  onto  the  back  porch  and  found  him  at  the  faucet,  washing  his  face  and  hands.  Mother  had  prepared  a  sack  of  sandwiches  for  him  to  take  with  him,  like  the  sacks  she  prepared  for  my  brother  and  me  when  we  went  to  school.  My  aunt,  who  went  out  to  the  coal  house  and  locked  the  door,  was  pleased  with  the  amount  of  work  he  had  done  and  told  me  to  come  inside  with  her.  She  hung  the  key  to  the  coal  house     " b"on  its  nail  and  handed  me  a  quarter  to  give  him.  I  hurried  out  to  the  back  porch  again,  but  he  was  no  longer  at  the  water  faucet,  and  when  I  had  gone  down  the  steps  to  the  ground,  I  could  not  find  him  any-  where  in  the  yard.  I  ran  across  the  sandy  automobile  tracks  and  up  the  unpaved  driveway,  anxious  and  be-  wildered.  Then  I  saw  him,  framed  in  the  posts  of  the  gate  that  separated  the  front  from  the  back  yard,  walking  slowly,  ready  to  turn  from  the  driveway  onto  the  side-  walk.  In  his  hand  he  carried  his  tan  sweater,  as  he  had  when  he  arrived  at  the  house;  and  when  I  called  to  him  and  he  turned  and  looked  at  me,  I  saw  that  his  brown  hair,  wet  from  his  wash,  lay  un-  naturally  dark  and  formal  along  his  forehead.  I  gave  him  the  quarter.  He  thanked  me.  For  a  moment  we  stood  smiling  at  each  other.  Then  he  drew  his  hand  from  his  pocket  and  held  it  out  to  me.  In  the  palm  there  was  a  round,  copper-colored  coin  with  a  square  hole  in  it.  He  asked  if  I  knew  what  it  was.  I  shook  my  head.  &quot;It's  acash,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;A  Chinese  coin.  I  brought  it  back  with  me,  and  I'd  like  to  give  it  to  you  to  remember  me  by.  It  isn't  worth  any-  thing  here,  but  whenever  you  look  at  it  you'll  think  of  &gt;  me.  A  STRAW  sewing  bas-  ket,  on  which  a  design  was  stitched  in  red  and  blue  wool,  sat  on  Mother's  dress-  er  in  the  back  bedroom.  At  the  top,  to  lift  the  lid  by,  the  threads  held  a  coin  like  the  one  the  stranger  had  given  me;  and  when  I  showed  the  cash  to  my  brother  and  told  him  what  it  was,  he  did  not  believe  that  the  man  had  brought  it  back  from  a  foreign  country.  It  was  probably  an  ornament  off  a  sewing  bas-  ket  like  Mother's,  he  said,  and  even  if  I  got  to  4368696e61  it  would  be  of  no  value.  But  for  once  I  did  not  believe  him.  When  I  looked  at  the  copper-colored  coin,  I  thought  of  the  vagrant's  brown  plaid  shirt;  of  how,  on  the  inside,  where    the  sleeve  was  rolled  up,  I  had  seen  the  plaid  pattern  repeated  in  a  lighter  tan  the  same  shade  as  his  face,  as  though  the  sun  at  the  same  time  that  it  had  faded  his  shirt  had  darkened  his  skin  until  the  two  met.  The  color  joined  with  the  brown  fading  snapshots  of  my  father  in  our  family  photograph  album,  snapshots  of  places  as  flat  and  strange  as  the  foreign  names  the  stranger  had  used-stretches  of  sand  at  Daytona  [REDACTED],  or  level  fields  in  pine  woods  cleared  for  growing  pine-  apples.  Between  the  shirt  and  the  photo-  graphs  there  was  the  copper-colored  coin  in  my  hand.  And  somehow,  out  of  the  combination  of  all  three,  emerged  the  exact  shade  of  my  own  longing  and  belief. "