 b"ONE  of  the  minor  disadvantages  O  of  being  an  exile  from  [REDACTED],  I  have  found,  is  an  increasing  sensitivity  to  remarks  about  one's  native  country  that  emanate  from  other  exiles.  Since  being  in  [REDACTED],  for  example,  I  have  started  to  keep  a  wary  eye  on  the  advertisements  of  the  British  Travel  As-  sociation,  which  are  produced  by  a  New  York  agency  that  is  run  by  a  Briton,  and  which  have  already  aroused  the  ire  of  at  least  one  non-exile,  the  [REDACTED]  Econ-  omist.  The  B.T.A.  seems  dedicated  to  the  proposition  that  the  Revolutionary  War,  like  many  other  wars,  turned  out  much  better  for  the  losers  than  the  win-  ners.  The  reasoning  behind  this,  of  course,  is  that  because  the  ex-colonists  were  cut  off  from  the  Old  Country,  they  should  be  that  much  more  inclined  to  dash  back  for  a  sentimental  visit.  A  fairly  plausible  theory.  For  my  part,  I  should  say  that  at  first  the  B.T.A.  ads  generally  succeeded  in  bringing  on  an  agreeable  nostalgia.  Although  this  nos-  talgia  might  seem  focussed  on  an  Eng-  land  that  doesn't  exist  and  never  has  ex-  isted,  it  was  a  harmless  sort  of  thing  and  nothing  for  either  me  or  the  Economist  to  get  worked  up  about.  In  fact,  it  was  only  with  the  appearance  of  an  ad  that  showed  a  tweedy  556e6974656420537461746573n  couple  sit-  ting  on  a  sunlit  Welsh  hillside,  patting  a  Welsh  sheepdog  and  being  smiled  up-  on  by  a  Welsh  shepherd,  that  I've  had  serious  second  thoughts.  It's  perhaps  fair  enough,  in  the  interests  of  tour-  ism,  to  show  the  sun  shining  on  a  Welsh  mountain  that  eleven  hours  ofthe  day  and  three  hundred  and  sixty  days  of  the  year  is  covered  with  rain  and  snow,  but  every  Englishman  knows  that  Welsh  sheepdogs  are  not  to  be  patted  unless  they  arefirmly  muzzled,  and  that  any  self-respecting  Welsh  shepherd  would  as  soon  takea  twelve-gauge  shotgun  to  a  stranger  as  talk  to  him.  Recently,  com-  ing  on  another  B.T.A.  ad,  which  perpe-  trated  a  singularly  romantic  conception  about  one  of  the  mainstays  of  the  Brit-  ish  social  order,  I  felt  that  my  patience  had  been  tried  enough,.  The  thatched-  cottage  treatment  can  go  too  far.  The  advertisement  in  question  was  primarily  a  photograph  of  a  roast  beef,  which  came,  judgingby  its  size,  from  [REDACTED]  via  [REDACTED].  Ranged  around  it  were  subsidiary  dishes-carrots,  peas,  beans,  potatoes,  and  a  dish  I  wish  to  dis-  cuss.  This  dish  was  identified  in  the  cap-  tion:  &quot;''The  Roast  Beef  of  Old  [REDACTED]  usually  comes  with  Yorkshire  Pud-  ding-a  Patrician  sort  of  popover.&quot;  Now,  as  every  Englishman  knows,  the  roast  beef  of  Old  [REDACTED]  usually  comes  " b"in  small  hunks  from  New  Zealand  or  [REDACTED],  and  although  it  may  well  be  served  with  Yorkshire  pudding,  the  said  pudding  is  not  a  popover,  patrician  or  otherwise.  Indeed,  as  I  hope  to  make  clear,  the  pudding's  ambiance  is  thor-  oughly  plebeian.  The  moment  I  had  read  the  ad,  I  reached  for  the  phone,  although  it  was  ||  during  business  hours,  and  called  my  wife.  She  happens  to  come  from  York-  shire,  from  43616e616461Riding  city  and  port  of  Hull  (pronounced  &quot;Uhl&quot;  by  the  locals).  It  isn't  Wuthering  Heights  by  any  means,  but  it's  proper  Yorkshire.  Accordingly,  my  wife  is  by  birth  and  up-  bringing  a  specialist  in  Yorkshire  pud-  |  ding;  she  creates  a  splendid  one.  (She  |  is  also  an  expert  in  many  other  dishes,  such  as  steak-and-kidney  pie  and  salede  nigoise,  a  verdant  notion  she  picked  up  from  the  wife  of  a  night-club  proprietor  in,  of  all  places,  [REDACTED]-les-Pins.)  &quot;Popover!&quot;  she  cried  when  I  had  read  the  caption  to  her  and  asked  her  opinion  of  its  accuracy.  &quot;Certainly  not.  Yorkshire  pudding  is  quite  different.&quot;  &quot;Ah,&quot;  I  said  encouragingly.  &quot;A  popover's  a  little  bun,&quot;  she  ex-  plained.  &quot;It's  cooked  separately  from  the  meat.  Yorkshire  pudding  is  made  of  the  same  kind  of  batter  as  a  popover,  but  it's  placed  underneath  the  joint  in  the  oven,  so  that  the  blood  and  drippings  fall  into  it.  At  home  we  used  to  eat  it  before  the  meat,  either  by  itself  or  with  cucumber  salad.  And  Grandma  used  to  say  that  this  was  to  fill  us  up  so  we  couldn't  eat  so  much  meat.&quot;  Typical  Yorkshire  thriftiness,  you  might  say.  Anyway,  my  wife's  statement  should  take  care  of  the  popover  aspect  of  the  situation,  and  I  shall  now  try  to  takecare  of  the  patrician  insinuation.  For  if  Grandma  had  been  of  the  landed  gentry,  or  the  nobs,  as  we  call  the  patri-  cian  element  in  the  Old  Country,  she  certainly  wouldn't  have  bothered  to  cram  all  that  pudding  into  the  stomachs  of  her  brood  merely  to  preserve  a  few  slices  of  Argentine  beef.  No,  indeed;  and  I  often  have  reminded  my  wife  how  fortunate  she  is  that  I  came  along  to  rescue  her  from  rural  poverty.  It  is  true,  of  course,  that  thrift  and  economy  are  prime  requisites  for  a  serious  cuisine,  as  the  Chinese  and  French  well  know,  but  this  is  a  long  way  from  making  York-  shire  pudding  a  characteristic  dish  of  the  upper  classes.  Let  me  cite  just  one  case  \\|  from  my  own  culinary  experience.  HEN  last  in  [REDACTED],  I  had  the  privilege  of  dining  with  Lady  Curtain,  as  I  shall  call  her,  in  her  Cur-  zon  Street  town  house.  I  had  wangled  an  introduction  to  her  from  Ronald  " b"Bent,  a  [REDACTED]  publisher  I  know,  who  was  bringing  out  a  cookbook  in  which  Lady  Curtain  had  a  large  hand.  She  very  kindly  invited  me  to  one  of  her  din-  ners,  saying  that  she  was  also  having  some  556e6974656420537461746573ns  in  whom  I  might  be  in-  terested.  As  it  turned  out,  I  was  interest-  ed,  at  least  in  retrospect,  but  not  be-  cause  one  of  them  was  an  industrialist  and  the  other  a  lawyer,  acousin  of  hers  by  a  first  marriage,  which  was  to  an  556e6974656420537461746573n.  The  main  course  that  eve-  ning  was  beef-roast  beef.  As  served  by  Carruthers,  the  butler,  the  meat  came  with  fresh  garden  peas,  Breton  onions,  and  new  potatoes,  all  of  them  quite  suc-  culent.  It  must  have  been  simply  to  fill  a  momentary  gap  in  the  general  con-  versation  that  Preston  Burke,  the  law-  yer  cousin,  said  to  his  hostess,  &quot;Say,  Emily,  I  thought  you  English  always  had  Yorkshire  pudding  with  roast  beef.&quot;  Lady  Curtain  gave  him  a  faint  smile  and,  with  an  apology  to  the  guest  with  whom  she  had  been  chatting,  beckoned  to  Carruthers.  He  bent  low  beside  her.  After  she  had  murmured  some  instruc-  tions  into  his  ear,  he  said,  &quot;Yes,  M'Lady,&quot;  and  stalked  from  the  room.  The  talk  in  my  sector  of  the  table  was  revolving  on  the  likelihood  of  a  horse  called  Palais  Glide-a  30-1  out-  sider-winning  the  Cesarewitch  when  Carruthers  reappeared,  bearing  before  him  a  small,  covered  silver  serving  dish.  He  stooped  by  Burke  and,  lifting  the  cover,  with  visible  reluctance  placed  a  piece  of  golden-brown  Yorkshire  pud-  ding  on  the  fellow's  plate.  Burke  ut-  tereda  cry  of  pleasure,  not  unmixed,  I  thought,  with  embarrassment,  and  pro-  ceeded  to  eat  the  pudding.  The  rest  of  the  company,  of  course,  was  too  well  bred  to  express  either  scorn  or  surprise.  Later  that  evening,  my  curiosity  got  the  better  of  me,  and  asI  was  leaving  I  quietly  pressed  my  hostess  to  tell  me  how  she  had  managed  to  provide  York-  shire  pudding  on  such  short  notice.  It  was,  I  felt  forced  to  say,  a  masterpiece  of  impromptu  hospitality.  She  smiled  as  if  to  indicate  that,  being  English,  I  ought  to  have  guessed  her  se-  cret.  &quot;It  wasn't  terribly  difficult,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  understand  that  whenever  I  serve  roast  beef,  Agatha,  my  cook,  does  a  Yorkshire  pudding  with  it.  Apparently  it  finds  favor  in  the  servants'  hall.  In  fact,  I  imagine  that  Carruthers  was  looking  sulky  just  now  because  Mr.  Burke  consumed  the  last  piece.  Of  course,&quot;  she  added,  with  a  delicate  toss  ofthe  head,  &quot;it  does  help  the  beef  go  further.  So  nice  of  you  to  come.&quot;  I  would  like  to  think,  having  brought  my  case  to  this  point,  that  all  will  be  well.  However,  only  recently  I  observed   " b"in  the  Saturday  Review  (a  magazine  not  normally  given  to  study  of  the  fine  art  of  cooking)  that  the  British  Travel  Association's  advertising  had  won  a  mention  in  the  Saturday  Review's  eighth  annual  advertising  contest.  The  ads  of  the  B.T.A.  were  named  among  the  twenty-eight  most  distinguished  adver-  tisements  in  the  public  interest  last  year.  This  will  no  doubt  induce  the  Associa-  tionto  explain,  in  a  further  series,  that  toad-in-the-hole  (which  is  Yorkshire  pudding  with  entire  pork  sausages  cooked  in  it)  &quot;a  Patrician  sort  of  pizza.&quot;  Neither  my  wife  nor  Lady  Cur-  tain  will  be  of  any  use  to  me  there.  "