 b"IN  a  letter  from  a  Mrs.  St.  Clair,  who  I  represents  herself  as  chairman  of  the  program  committee  for  the  Sub-Teen  Group  at  my  children's  school,  in  Westchester  County,  I  have  been  informed  that  I  am  soon  to  receive  a  telephone  call  from  another  commit-  tee  member,  asking  me  to  speak  at  the  group's  next  monthly  meeting  on  the  general  topic  &quot;How  Teen-Agers  Can  Make  Money.&quot;  &quot;Baby  sitting,  paper  route,  cookie  sales  are  familiar  ways,&quot;  Mrs.  St.  Clair  writes.  &quot;Won't  you  tell  the  boys  and  girls  how  you  made  money  as  a  young-  ster?  Most  of  us  did  something.&quot;  Her  feeling  is  that,  as  parents  of  ten-through-  twelves,  we  should  encourage  our  chil-  dren  to  prepare  for  gainful  employment.  The  letter  ends  with  a  rather  long  para-  graph  about  character  building,  and  asI  finished  it  I  was  taken  back  to  the  lovely  year  when  I  was  sixteen,  and  gainfully  employed  as  a  writer  of  horror  and  ad-  venture  strips  for  comic  magazines.  Perhaps  I  never  realized,  before  read-  ing  Mrs.  St.  Clair's  letter,  how  worth-  while  this  experience  was.  At  the  time,  I  thought  mostly  of  the  money.  Yet  not  only  did  this  work  contribute  a  great  deal,  I'm  sure,  toward  keeping  me  out  of  trouble  but  it  even  got  me  out  of  some  trouble  I  was  already  in.  The  year  be-  fore,  fresh  from  an  Episcopal  convent  school,I  had  begun  college  in  New  York  during  a  financial  panic  of  my  par-  ents'-we  were  then  living  here  in  the  city-and  it  was  arranged  for  me  to  work  in  the  college  office  three  after-  noons  a  week  after  classes,  to  help  pay  my  tuition.  This  job  gave  me  no  end  of  trouble,  Letters  had  to  be  mimeo-  graphed.  Envelopes  had  to  be  addressed.  The  work  was  so  dull  that  toward  the  end  of  my  freshman  year  I  had  a  dream  of  finding  tuition  money  on  the  board-  walk  of  an  amusement  park  and  riding  the  roller  coaster  off  into  the  high  white  clouds.  Knowing  I  had  always  wanted  to  be  a  writer,  a  cartoonist  friend  of  my  father's  suggested  that  I  could  earn  some  quick  money  if  I  could  learn  to  write  comics.  This  was  during  the  Sec-  ond  World  War,  and  the  horror  and  adventure  strips  were  booming.  Captain  [REDACTED]  battled  the  Nazis  and  the  Japa-  nese,  Captain  Marvel  zoomed  back  through  the  ages  righting  wrongs,  Sub-  mariner-part  man,  part  fish-was  for-  ever  getting  stranded  out  of  water,  and  in  separate  thriving  books  the  horror  monsters  lived  by  their  own  curious   " b"rules,  plagued  by  intricate  family  curses,  by  vampirism  that  was  trans-  mitted  like  rabies,  and  by  a  poignant  inability  to  lie  down  when  dead.  I  studied  these  magazines,  all  of  which  I  was  slightly  familiar  with,  and  they  soon  made  their  impress  on  my  teen-age  character.  Then  I  tried  writing  for  them,  and  within  a  few  weeks  I  had  mademy  impress  on  them.  Early  in  the  summer,  on  the  day  I  created  the  Ice  Monster  (&quot;'That  huge  clump  of  ice,  over  by  the  house-  it's  it's  moving!  It's  alive!&quot;),  my  editor  said  to  me,  &quot;This  is,  with  you,  a  gift,&quot;  and  I  felt  the  thrill  of  accomplishment  that  is  so  important,  I  think,  to  a  young-  ster's  self-esteem.  I  can  recommend  to  our  sub-teens,  too,  the  disciplinary  value  of  mastering  the  art  of  the  horror  comic.  Here,  for  example,  is  part  of  a  page  of  one  of  my  scripts:  Panel  4.  (Jackie  holding  black  four-leaf  clover  in  one  hand,  black  rabbit's  foot  in  other.  Sweat  beads  face.  Clock  in  back-  ground  reads  one  minute  to  twelve.)  Jackie:  He-  he's  come-Mr.  Black  Magic!  By  day,  he's  only  a  clerk  in  a  furniture  store!  By  night,  he's  the  ruler  of  darkness-and  death!  Just  in  this  one  panel  an  enterprising  ten-through-twelve  can  find  something  to  emulate.  The  menacing  time  shown  on  the  clock,  the  clever  business  with  the  lucky  charms,  the  straightforward  in-  formation  conveyed  by  Jackie  combine  to  give  us  a  panel  4  of  which  we  can  well  be  proud.  On  to  panel  5:  Panel  5.  (Tight  closeup  of  Jackie.  Wild  terror  on  face.  Clock,  dimly  seen,  says  twelve.)  Jackie:  Why,  it's-  it's  getting  darker  in  here!  The-  the  lights  are  dimming!  Wha-what's  happening?!  ?  See  the  emotional  progression?  'The  clock  again,  but  tension  now  stretched  to  the  breaking  point-mudnight.  The  boy's  face  seen  more  closely,  seen  al-  most,  as  it  were,  from  within.  The  con-  fused  apprehension  of  doom  in  his  speech,  ending  in  skillfully  chosen  punc-  tuation.  This  leads  us  smartly  to  panel  6:  Panel  6.  (All  black)  BALLOON:  EEEEEEOOOWW  !  Subtle,  and  succinct.  So  much  for  Jackie.  In  creating  a  monster,  it  pays  to  be  original.  A  trite  monster  makes  a  trite  script,  and  while  it  may  be  effective,  oc-  casionally,  to  employ  the  catalytic  action  of  the  full  moon,  still  it  is  tedious  to  go  on  and  have  someone  turn  into  an  out-  and-out  werewolf.  How  is  the  artist  going  to  make  those  fangs  or  that  furry " b"pointed  face  look  any  different'  In-  stead,  why  not  let  your  herowait  till  Midsummer  Eve,  and  then  have  him  turn  into  an  ambulant  mass  of  vines  and  come  creeping  through  the  garden,  to  crush  the  heroine  to  death  as  she  stands  by  the  birdbath?  She  could  smell  the  sad,  sweet  perfume  of  honeysuckle,  borne  to  her  hauntingly  on  the  night  air.  Then  all  at  once:  EEEEEEOOOWW!  Of  course,  there's  always  somebody  ready  to  discourage  any  sort  of  enter-  prise.  Every  kid  should  learn  to  be  re-  signed  to  these  people.  In  my  day,  they  were  the  editorial  and  article  writers,  who  kept  crying,  &quot;When  the  creators  of  groan-and-gore  strips  collect  their  pay  checks,  do  they  ever  stop  to  think  of  the  effect  their  stories  have  on  the  young  minds  of  their  readers?&quot;  I  can't  speak  for  the  profession  of  horror  writers  as  a  whole,  but  as  far  as  I  was  concerned  the  readers  were  on  their  own.  When  I  was  writing  a  strip  called  &quot;The  Human  Torch,&quot;  in  which  the  title  character  changed  himself  at  will  from  flesh  to  flame  and  threw  fire-  balls  at  his  enemies,  the  editor  gave  me  a  fan  letter  from  a  soldier  that  read  simply,  &quot;I  like  the  Human  Torch.  I  like  the  way  he  flames  up  without  giv-  ing  no  reason.&quot;  I'll  admit  I  thought  about  this  soldier.  But  I  can't  say  I  ever  worried  about  him.,  AYDAYS  for  me  were  washed  with  a  guiltless  holiday  joy.  'The  teen-age  rage  of  that  summer  was  cotton  dirndl  skirts  that  you  washed,  twisted,  and  wrapped  around  a  broomstick  to  dry.  They  were  worn  with  white  peasant  blouses,  white  bobby  socks,  and  dirty  saddle  shoes.  My  hair  was  shoulder  length,  held  out  of  my  eves  by  a  silver  barrette.  I  jingled  perpetually  from  a  silver  charm  bracelet  my  father  had  bought  me  on  Cape  Cod.  Usually,  it  took  me  quitea  long  while  to  get  into  these  simple  things.  But  on  payday  I  was  dressed,  fed,  and  in  the  bank-  most  of  each  check  went  into  a  tuition  fund-in  time  to  reach  Times  Square  before  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning.  It  was  wonderful  to  drift  in  and  out  of  stores,  conscious  of  my  escape  from  the  mimeographing  machine,  with  spend-  ing  money  in  my  purse,  and  on  the  lookout  for  any  inspirations  for  dialogue  that  might  develop  into  next  week's  check.  In  Stern's  basement  there  were" b"dresses  to  try  on,  and  new  patterns  in  broomstick  skirts  to  look  at.  &quot;Why  are  you  sharpening  that  broomstick?&quot;  'The  only  way  to  kill  them  is  with  a  stake  through  the  heart.&quot;  Hot  dogs  were  then  a  nickel  at  Nedick's,  and  orange  drink  was  a  nick-  el,  and  the  frozen  malteds  in  the  Forty-  fourth  Street  five-and-ten  were  a  dime.  The  malteds  were  so  thick  a  spoon  al-  most  stood.  up  in  them.  'They  told  me  this  bog  led  to  the  fountain  of  eternal  youth!  But  I'm  sinking  down-in  quicksand!&quot;  &quot;Poor  George!  He  wanted  to  stay  young  forever!  Now  he  knows  no  one  can  escape  the  sands  of  time!&quot;  Benny  Goodman  played  the  Para-  mount,  and  so  did  Tommy  Dorsey  and  Frank  Sinatra.  I  stood  in  line  for  all  of  them.  Once  inside,  I  never  sat  in  the  front  of  the  orchestra,  in  the  swooning  section.  I  preferred  the  front  of  the  balcony,  where  I  got  a  better  view  of  what  was  happening.  A  person  in  my  line  of  work  felt  pleasantly  at  home.  The  theatre  was  refrigerated  toa  tem-  perature  that  suggested  the  tomb,  and  when  Mr.  Sinatra  was  on  hand,  the  girls  below  me  sat  there  screaming  like  my  threatened  heroines  or  else  fainted  and  were  carried  up  the  aisle  one  by  one.  At  last,  in  late  afternoon,  I  would  come  out  again  into  the  summer  heat  of  the  city.  If  it  was  not  too  close  to  dinnertime,  I  stopped  off  for  a  last  fro-  zen  malted  in  the  five-and-ten,  and  a  happy  tour  of  the  store.  In  those  days,  the  lipsticks  weren't  kept  under  glass.  Each  golden  case  could  be  picked  up  and  the  color  tried  on  the  back  of  your  hand.  &quot;Look,  Mathilde,  at  the  present  I've  brought  you  from  [REDACTED]!  It's  over  there,  in  that  giant  golden  case!  Go  ahead,  my  dear,  and-heh-heh!-pull  up  the  lid!&quot;  &quot;For  met  How  sweet!  Doesn't  it  open  easily!  But-  but  Henry-  there's  a  dead  man  inside!  And-  he's  looking  at  me!&quot;  When  the  salesgirl  stopped  me  on  the  lipsticks,  I  sometimes  went  to  another  counter  and  bought  a  little  bottle  of  Blue  Waltz  perfume,  and  maybe  an  artificial  gardenia.  By  the  time  the  per-  fume  was  on  the  gardenia,  and  the  gar-  denia  clamped  in  place  by  the  barrette,  it  was  time  to  take  the  subway  home,  pressed  in  with  the  rush-hour  crowd.  &quot;Meanwhile,  the  Walking  Dead  gathered  in  the  underground  tunnel  ...&quot;  f  I  'HOSE  weregood  days.  Perhaps  it  is  a  lucky  teen-ager  who  can  kill  off  her  monsters  with  a  stake  through  " b" the  heart.  You  must  remember  to  vary  your  stakes.  The  doomed  creature  can  be  dropped  chest  downward  on  a  picket  fence,  stabbed  with  an  icicle,  or  reduced  in  size  by  a  magic  pill  and  then  run  old  horror  magazines  were  still  going.  He  said  no.  &quot;We're  not  supposed  to  use  werewolves  any  more.  We're  not  supposed  to  use  vampires  or  zombies  any  more.  We  have  this  Comics  Code   now.  Things  aren't  the  same  as  they  were  when  we  were  kids.&quot;  our  sub-teens,  and  I  bet  they'd  be  inter-  ested.  What's  the  use,  though?  The  business  has  changed.  Last  week,  I  was  talking  to  one  of  the  editors  I  used  to  write  for.  He  was  very  young  when  we  worked  together,  only  a  few  years  older  than  I  was,  and  he  is  forever  associated  in  my  mind  with  youth,  and  death,  and  money.  I  asked  him  if  any  of  the  Somehow  it  seems  wise,  everything  considered,  to  decline  to  speak  at  the  school  meeting.  I'll  think  up  an  excuse  before  Mrs.  St.  Clair's  committeewom-  an  calls  Then  she  won't  catch  me-  Ulp!  Zowie!  Gasp!-unprepared.  Of  course,  if  she  persists,  I  can  simply  flame  up  without  giving  no  reason.  "