 b"SHE  was  born  and  brought  up  in    Nascosta,  in  the  time  of  the  won-  ders-the  miracle  of  the  jewels  and  the  winter  of  the  wolves.  She  was  ten  years  old  when  thieves  broke  into  the  shrine  of  the  Holy  Virgin  after  the  last  Mass  on  San  [REDACTED]  and  stole  the  jewels  that  had  been  given  to  the  Ma-  donna  by  a  princess  who  was  cured  there  of  a  malady  of  the  liver.  On  the  next  day,  when  Uncle  Serafino  was  walking  up  from  the  fields,  he  saw,  in  the  mouth  of  the  cave  where  the  Etrus-  cans  had  buried  their  dead,  a  youth  of  great  radiance,  who  beckoned  to  him,  but  he  was  afraid  and  ran  away.  Then  Serafino  was  stricken  with  a  fever,  and  he  called  for  the  priest  and  told  him  what  he  had  seen,  and  the  priest  went  to  the  cave  and  found  the  jewels  of  the  Madonna  there  in  the  dead  leaves  where  the  angel  had  been  standing.  That  same  year,  on  the  road  below  the  farm,  her  [REDACTED]  Maria  saw  the  Devil,  with  horns,  a  pointed  tail,  and  a  tight  red  suit,  just  as  in  the  pictures.  She  was  four-  teen  at  the  time  of  thebig  snow,  and  she  went  that  night  after  dark  to  the  foun-  tain  and,  turning  back  toward  the  tower  where  they  then  lived,  she  saw  the  wolves.  It  was  a  pack  of  six  or  seven,  trotting  up  the  stairs  of  the  Via  Cavour  in  the  snow.  She  dropped  her  pitcher  and  ran  into  the  tower,  and  her  tongue  was  swollen  with  terror,  but  she  looked  out  the  cracks  in  the  door  and  saw  them,  more  churlish  than  dogs,  more  ragged,  their  ribs  showing  in  their  mangy  coats  and  the  blood  of  the  sheep  they  had  murdered  falling  from  their  mouths.  She  was  terrified  and  she  was  rapt,  as  if  the  sight  of  the  wolves  moving  over  the  snow  was  the  spirits  of  the  dead  or  some  other  part  of  the  mystery  that  she  knew  to  lie  close  to  the  heart  of  life,  and  when  they  had  passed  she  would  not  have  believed  she  had  seen  them  if  they  had  not  left  their  tracks  in  the  snow.  She  was  seventeen  when  she  went  to  work  as  a  donna  di  servizio  for  the  baron  of  little  importance  who  had  a  villa  on  the  hill,  and  it  was  the  same  summer  that  Anto-  nio,  in  the  dark  field,  called  her  his  dewy  rose  and  made  her  head  swim.  She  con-  fessed  to  the  priest  and  did  her  penance  and  was  absolved,  but  when  this  had  happened  six  times  the  priest  said  they  should  become  engaged,  and  so  Antonio  became  her  fidanzato.  The  mother  of  Antonio  was  not  sympathetic,  and  after  three  years  Clementina  was  still  his  rose  and  he  was  still  her  fidanzato  and  when-  ever  the  marriage  was  mentioned  the  mother  of  Antonio  would  hold  her  head  and  scream.  In  the  autumn,  the  baron  asked  her  to  come  to  4974616c79  asa  donna  and  how  could  she  say  no  when  she  had  dreamed  all  the  nights  of  her  life  of  see-  ing  the  Pope  with  her  own  eyes  and  walking  on  streets  that  were  lighted  after  dark  with  electricity?  In  4974616c79  she  slept  on  straw  and  washed  in  a  bucket,  but  the  streets  were  a  spectacle,  although  she  had  to  work  such  hours  that  she  was  not  often  able  to  walk  in  the  city.  The  baron  promised  to  pay  hertwelve  thousand  lire  a  month,  buthe  paid  her  nothing  at  the  end  of  the  first  month  and  nothing  at  the  end  of  the  second,  and  the  cook  said  that  he  often  brought  girls  in  from  the  country  and  paid  them  nothing.  Opening  the  door  for  him  one  evening,  she  asked  with  great  courtesy  for  her  wages,  and  he  said  he  had  given  her  a  room,  a  change  of  air,  and  a  visit  to  4974616c79  and  that  she  was  badly  educated  to  ask  for  more.  She  had  no  coat  to  wear  in  the  street,  and  there  were  holes  in  her  shoes,  and  all  she  was  given  to  eat  was  the  leftovers  from  the  baron's  table.  She  saw  that  she  would  have  to  find  another  post,  because  she  didn't  have  the  money  to  go  back  to  Nascosta.  That  next  week,  the  cousin  of  the  cook  found  her  a  place  where  she  was  both  seamstress  and  donna,  and  here  she  worked  even  hard-  er,  but  when  the  month  was  over  there  were  no  wages.  Then  she  refused  to  finish  a  dress  the  signora  had  asked  her  to  make  for  a  reception.  She  said  she  would  not  finish  the  dress  until  she  had  herwages.  The  signora  angered  her-  self  and  tore  her  hair,  but  she  paidthe  wages.  Then  that  night  the  cousin  of  the  cook  said  that  some  556e6974656420537461746573ns  needed  a  donna.  She  put  all  the  dirty  dishes  in  the  oven  to  givea  false  appearance  of  cleanliness,  said  her  prayers  in  San  Marcello,  and  flew  across  4974616c79  to  where  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns  lived,  feeling  that  every  girl  on  the  street  that  night  was  looking  for  the  same  post.  The  556e6974656420537461746573ns  were  a  family  with  two  boys-well-educated  people,  although  she  could  see  that  they  were  sad  and  foolish.  They  offered  her  twenty  thou-  sand  lire  in  wages  and  showed  her  a  very  commodious  room  where  she  would  live  and  said  they  hoped  she  would  not  be  uncomfortable,  and  in  the  morning  she  moved  her  things  to  the  556e6974656420537461746573ns'.  She  had  heard  much  about  Ameri-  cans,  about  how  they  were  generous  and  ignorant,  and  some  of  this  was  true,  for  they  were  very  generous  and  treated  her  like  a  guest  in  the  house,  always  ask-  ing  her  if  she  had  time  to  do  this  and  that  and  urging  her  to  take  a  passage  in  the  streets  on  Thursdays  and  Sun-  days.  The  signore  was  meagre  and  tall  and  worked  in  the  Embassy.  His  hair  was  cropped  close  like  a  German  or  a  prison-  er  or  someone  recovering  from  an  oper-  ation  of  the  brain.  His  hair  was  black  and  strong,  and  if  he  had  let  it  go  and  waved  it  with  frissone  the  girls  in  the  street  would  have  admired  him,  but  he  went  each  week  to  the  barber  andhadhim-  self  disfigured.  He  was  very  modest     " b"in  other  things  and  wore  at  the  beach  a  concealing  bath-  ing  costume,  but  he  walked  through  the  streets  of  4974616c79  with  the  shape  of  his  head  naked  for  everyone  to  see.  The  signora  was  fine,  with  a  skin  like  marble  and  many  clothes,  and  it  was  a  com-  modious  and  a  diverting  life,  and  Clementina  prayed  at  San  Marcello's  that  it  would  never  end.  They  left  all  the  lights  burning  as  if  electricity  cost  noth-  ing,  and  they  burned  wood  in  the  fireplace  only  to  take  off  the  evening  chill,  and  they  drank  iced  gin  and  vermouth  before  dinner.  They  smelled  different.  It  was  a  pale  smell,  she  thought-a  weak  smell-  and  it  might  have  had  something  to  do  with  the  blood  of  northerners,  or  it  might  be  because  they  took  so  many  hot  baths.  They  took  so  many  hot  baths  that  she  could  not  understand  why  they  were  not  neurasthenics.  'They  ate  Italian  food  and  drank  wine,  and  she  hoped  that  if  they  ate  enough  pasta  and  oil  they  would  have  a  strong  and  a  wholesome  smell.  Sometimes  when  she  waited  on  table,  she  smelled  them,  but  it  was  al-  ways  a  very  weak  smell  and  sometimes  nothing.  They  spoiled  their  children,  and  sometimes  the  children  spoke  sharp-  ly  or  in  an  ill  temper  to  their  geni-  tori,  for  which  they  should  have  been  whipped,  butthey  never  whipped  their  children,  these  strangers,  or  even  raised  their  voices  in  anger,or  did  anything  else  that  would  explain  to  the  children  the  importance  of  their  genitori,  and  once  when  the  smallest  boy  was  very  badly  disposed  and  should  have  been  whipped,  his  mother  took  him  instead  to  atoy  store  and  bought  him  a  sailboat.  And  some-  times  when  they  were  dressing  to  go  out  in  the  evening  the  signore  would  fasten  his  wife's  clothes  or  her  pearls,  like  a  ca-  fone,  instead  of  ringing  for  Clementina.  And  once  when  she  took  a  walk  on  Sunday  she  came  back  and  found  the  signore  in  the  kitchen  washing  dishes  while  his  wife  was  in  the  salotto  reading  a  magazine,  and  what  good  could  ever  come  of  a  marriage  where  the  husband  did  woman's  work  and  the  signora  sat  in  the  salotto  filling  her  head  with  serious  facts?  And  once  when  there  was  no  water  in  the  flat  and  she  had  gone  down  the  stairs  to  the  fountain  to  get  some,  he  came  after  her  to  help,  and  when  she  said  that  it  was  not  possible  for  him  to  carry  water,  he  said  that  it  was  not  possible  for  him  to  sit  by  his  fire  while  a  young  woman  carried  a  heavy  demi-  john  up  and  down  the  stairs.  Then  he  took  the  demijohn  out  of  her  hands  and  went  down  to  the  fountain,  where  he  could  be  seen  getting  water  by  the  porter  and  all  the  other  servants  in  the  palace,  and  she  watched  this  from  the  kitchen  window  and  was  so  angry  and  ashamed  that  she  had  to  take  some  wine  for  her  stomach,  for  everyone  would  say  that  she  was  lazy  and  that  she  worked  for  a  vulgar  and  badly  educated  family.  And  they  did  not  believe  in  the  dead.  Once,  walking  down  the  sala  in  the  dusk,  she  saw  the  spirit  of  a  dead  man  before  her  so  clearly  that  at  first  she  thought  it  was  the  signore,  until  she  saw  him  standing  in  the  door.  Then  she  screamed  and  dropped  the  tray  with  the  glasses  and  bottles  on  it,  and  when  the  signore  asked  her  why  she  had  screamed  and  she  said  it  was  because  she  had  seen  a  ghost  he  was  not  sympathetic.  And  once,  in  the  back  hall,  she  saw  another  ghost,  the  ghost  of  a  bishop  with  a  mitre,  and  when  she  screamed  and  told  the  signore  what  she  had  seen  he  was  not  sympathetic.  But  the  children  were  sympathetic,  and  in  the  evening,  when  they  were  in  bed,  she  told  them  the  stories  of  Nascosta.  The  story  they  liked  best  was  of  the  young  farmer  in  Nascosta  who  was  married  to  a  beautiful  woman  named  Assunta.  When  they  had  been  married  a  year,  they  had  a  fine  son  with  dark  curls  and  a  golden  skin,  but  from   the  first  he  was  sickly,  and  he  cried,  and  they  thought  there  was  a  spell  on  him,  and  they  took  him  to  the  doctor  in  Conciliano,  riding  all  the  way  there  on  an  asino,  and  the  docter  said  the  baby  was  dying  of  starvation.  But  how  could  this  be,  they  asked,  for  the  breasts  of  Assunta  were  so  full  of  milk  they  stained  her  blouse.  But  the  doctor  said  to  watch  at  night,  and  they  went  home  by  asino  and  ate  their  supper,  and  Assunta  fell  asleep,  but  the  husband  stayed  awake  to  watch,  and  then  at  mid-  night  he  saw  in  the  moonlight  a  great  viper  come  over  the  threshold  of  the  farmhouse  and  come  into  the  bed  and  suck  the  milk  from  the  breasts  of  the  woman,  but  the  husband  could  not  move,  for  if  he  moved,  the  viper  would  have  put  his  fangs  into  her  breast  and  killed  her,  and  when  the  serpent  had  sucked  her  breasts  dry  he  went  back  across  the  floor  and  over  the  threshold  in  the  moonlight,  and  then  the  farmer  gave  the  alarm,  and  all  the  farmers  from  around  came,  and  they  found  against  the  wall  of  the  farm  a  nest  of  eight  great  serpents,  fat  with  milk,  who  were  so  poisonous  that  even  their  breath  was  mortal,  and  they  beat  them  to  death  with  clubs,  and  this  was  a  true  story,  because  she  had  passed  the  farm  where  it  happened  a  hundred  times.  And  the  story  they  preferred  after  this  was  of  the  lady  in  Conciliano  who  became  the  lover  of  a  handsome  stranger  from  [REDACTED].  But  one  night  she  noticed  on  his  back  a  small  mark  like  a  leaf  and  remembered  that  the  son  who  had  " b"been  taken  away  from  her  many  years  ago  was  so  marked,  and  knew  then  that  this  lover  was  her  son.  She  ran  then  to  the  church  to  ask  forgiveness  in  the  confessional,  but  the  priest-he  was  a  fat  and  a  haughty  man-said  there  was  no  forgiveness  for  her  sin  and,  subito,  there  was  in  the  confessional  a  loud  clatter  of  bones.  Then  the  people  came  and  opened  the  confessional  and  saw  that  where  there  had  been  a  proud  and  a  haughty  priest  there  was  nothing  but  bones.  And  she  also  told  the  children  about  the  miracle  ofthe  jewels  of  the  Madonna,  and  the  tempo  infame  when  she  had  seen  the  wolves  coming  up  the  Via  Cavour,  and  the  time  her  [REDACTED]  Maria  had  seen  the  Devil  in  his  red  suit.  SHE  went  with  this  556e6974656420537461746573n  family  to  the  mountains  in  July,  and  in  August  to  4974616c79  and,  coming  back  to  4974616c79  in  the  fall,  she  understood  them  to  say  that  they  were  leaving  4974616c79,  and  they  had  the  trunks  brought  up  from  the  cellar,  and  she  helped  the  signora  with  the  packing.  Now  she  had  five  pairs  of  shoes  and  eight  dresses  and  money  in  the  bank,  but  the  thought  of  looking  for  an-  other  post  with  a  Roman  signora  who  might  spit  in  her  eye  whenever  she  felt  like  it  was  discouraging,  and  oneday  when  she  was  repairing  a  dress  for  the  signora  she  became  so  discouraged  that  she  cried.  Then  she  explained  to  the  signora  how  hard  the  life  ofa  donna  was  working  for  Romans,  and  the  signora  said  they  would  take  her  to  the  new  world  if  she  liked.  They  would  take  her  for  six  months  onan  impermanent  visa;  it  would  be  diverting  for  her  and  a  help  to  them.  Then  all  the  arrangements  were  made,  and  she  went  to  Nascosta,  and  the  Mamma  cried  and  asked  her  not  to  go,  and  everyone  in  the  village  said  she  should  not  go,  but  this  was  jealousy,  because  they  had  never  had  a  chance  to  go  anywheree-not  even  Conciliano.  And  for  once  the  world  where  she  had  lived  and  been  so  happy  seemed  to  her  truly  to  be  an  old  world  where  the  cus-  toms  and  the  walls  were  older  than  the  people,  and  she  felt  that  she  would  be  happier  in  a  world  where  the  walls  were  all  new,  even  if  the  people  were  savage  and  the  men  washed  the  dishes.  When  the  time  came  to  go,  they  drove  to  Naples,  stopping  whenever  the  signore  felt  like  it  to  have  a  little  coffee  and  cognac,  travelling  very  commodi-  ously  like  millionaires  and  staying  in  a  di-lusso  hotel  in  Naples,  where  she  had  a  room  toherself.  But  on  the  morning  when  they  sailed  she  felt  a  great  sadness,  for  who  can  live  out  a  good  life  but  in  his  own  country?  Then  she  told  herself  that  it  was  only  a  voyage-she  would  come  home  in  six  months-and  what  had  the  good  God  made  the  world  so  strange  and  various  for  if  it  was  not  to  be  seen?  She  had  her  passport  stamped  and  went  aboard  the  ship  feeling  very  emotional.  It  was  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  ship,  as  cold  as  winter,  and  at  lunch  there  was  ice  water  on  the  table,  and  what  was  not  cold  was  flavorless  and  badly  cooked,  and  she  came  back  to  her  deep  feeling  that  while  these  people  were  kind  and  generous,  they  were  ignorant  and  the  men  fastened  their  wives'  pearls  and,  with  all  their  money,  they  did  not  know  any  better  than  to  eat  platefuls  of  raw  steak  washed  down  with  coffee  that  tasted  like  'medicine.  'They  were  not  beautiful  or  elegant  and  they  had  pale  eyes,  but  what  disgusted  her  most  on  the  ship  were  the  old  women,  who  in  her  country  would  be  wearing  black  in  memory  of  their  numerous  dead  and,  as    suited  their  time  of  life,  would  move  slowly  and  inspire  dignity.  But  here  the  old  ladies  spoke  in  shrill  voices  and  wore  bright  clothes  and  as  much  jewelry,  all  of  it  false,  as  you  would  find  on  the  Madonna  of  Nascosta,  and  painted  their  faces  and  tinted  their  hair.  But  who  was  deceived,  for  you  could  see  how  hag-  gard  under  thepaint  were  their  cheeks,  and  that  their  necks  were  rucked  and  seamed  like  the  necks  of  turtles,  and  al-  though  they  smelled  like  the  campagna  in  spring  they  were  as  withered  and  dry  as  the  flowers  on  a  tomb.  'They  were  like  straw,  and  this  must  be  a  sav-  age  country  where  the  old  had  no  wis-  dom  or  taste  and  did  not  deserve  or  re-  ceive  the  respect  of  their  children  and  their  grandchildren  and  had  forgotten  their  dead.  But  it  would  be  beautiful,  she  thought,  because  she  had  seen  in  maga-  zines  and  newspapers  photographs  of  the  towers  of  the  city  of  New  York,  towers  of  gold  and  silver,  against  the  blue  sky,  in  a  city  that  had  never  once  been  touched  by  the  damage  of  war.  But  it  was  raining  when  they  came  up  the  Narrows,  and  when  she  looked  for  the  towers  they  were  not  to  be  seen,  and  when  she  asked  for  the  towers  she  " b'was  told  they  were  lost  in  the  rain.  She  was  disappointed,  for  what  she  could  see  of  this  new  world  seemed  ugly,  and  all  the  people  who  dreamed  of  it  were  deceived.  It  was  like  Naples  in  the  time  of  the  war,  and  she  wished  she  had  not  come.  The  customs  man  who  went  through  her  bags  was  badly  educated.  They  took  a  taxi  and  a  train  to  [REDACTED],  the  capital  of  the  new  world,  and  then  other  taxi,  and  could  see  out  of  the  window  that  all  the  buildings  were  copies  of  the  buildings  of  Imperial  4974616c79,  and  they  looked  ghostly  to  her  in  the  night  lights,  as  if  the  Forum  had  risen  again  from  the  dust.  They  drove  into  the  country  where  the  houses  were  all  of  wood  and  all  new  and  where  the  washbasins  and  bathtubs  were  very  commodious,  and  in  the  morning  her  signora  showed  her  the  ma-  chines  and  how  to  work  them.  At  first  she  was  sus-  picious  of  the  washing  machine,  for  it  used  a  fortune  in  soap  and  hot  water  and  did  not  clean  the  clothes,  and  it  re-  minded  her  of  how  hap-  py  she  had  been  at  the  fountain  in  Nascosta,  talking  with  her  friends  and  making  everything  as  clean  as  new.  But  little  by  little  the  ma-  chine  seemed  to  her  more  carina,  for  it  was  after  all  only  a  ma-  chine,  and  it  filled  itself  and  emptied  itself  and  turned  around  and  around,  and  it  seemed  marvellous  to  her  that  a  machine  could  remember  so  much  and  was  always  there,  ready  and  wait-  ing  to  do  its  work.  And  then  there  was  the  machine  for  washing  the  dishes,  and  you  could  wash  the  dishes  in  a  costume  for  the  eveningwithout  get-  ting  a  drop  of  water  on  your  gloves.  When  the  signora  was  away  and  the  boys  were  at  school,  first  she  would  put  some  dirty  clothes  in  the  washing  ma-  chine  and  start  that,  and  then  she  would  put  some  dirty  dishes  in  the  other  ma-  chine  and  start  that,  and  then  she  would  put  a  nice  saltimboceca  alla  romana  in  the  electric  frying  pan  and  start  that,  and  then  she  would  sit  in  the  salone  in  front  of  the  TV  and  listen  to  all  the  machines  around  her  doing  the  work,  and  it  de-  lighted  her  and  made  her  feel  powerful.  Then  there  was  the  frigidario  in  the  kitchen,  making  ice  and  keeping  the  but-  ' b"teras  hard  as  stone,  and  there  was  the  deep  freeze  full  of  lamb  and  beef  as  fresh  as  the  day  when  they  had  been  killed,  and  there  was  an  electric  egg  beater,  and  a  machine  for  squeezing  the  oranges,  and  a  machine  for  breathing  in  the  dust,  and  she  would  have  them  all  going  at  once,  and  a  machine  for  mak-  ing  the  toast-all  bright  silver-where  you  put  in  the  plain  bread  and  turned  your  back  and  allora,  there  were  two  pieces  of  toast  just  the  color  you  had  asked  for,  and  all  done  by  the  machine.  During  the  day,  her  signore  was  away  at  the  office,  but  her  signora,  who  in  4974616c79  had  lived  like  a  princess,  seemed  in  the  new  world  to  be  a  secre-  tary,  and  she  thought  perhaps  that  they  were  poor  and  the  signora  must  work.  She  was  always  talking  on  the  telephone  and  making  computations  and  writing  letters  like  a  secretary.  She  was  always  hurried  during  the  day  and  tired  at  night,  like  a  secretary.  Because  they  were  both  tired  at  night,  the  house  was  not  as  peaceful  as  it  had  been  in  4974616c79.  Finally  she  asked  the  signora  to  explain  what  she  was  a  secretary  for,  and  the  signora  said  that  she  was  not  a  secre-  tary  but  that  she  was  kept  busy  raising  money  for  the  poor  and  the  sick  and  the  mad.  'This  seemed  to  Clementina  very  strange.  The  climate  also  seemed  to  her  strange  and  humid,  bad  for  the  lungs  and  the  liver,  but  the  trees  at  that  season  were  very  colorful-she  had  never  seen  this  before;  they  were  gold  and  red  and  yellow,  and  their  leaves  fell  through  the  air  as  in  some  great  hall  in  4974616c79  or  4974616c79  where  the  paint  is  flak-  ing  from  the  pictures  on  the  ceiling.  There  was  a  paisano,  an  old  man  they  called  Joe,  from  bas-Italia,  who  delivered  the  milk.  He  had  sixty  years  or  more  and  was  bent  with  carrying  milk  bottles,  but  she  went  with  him  to  the  movies,  where  he  could  explain  the  story  to  her  in  Italian  and  where  he  pinched  her  and  asked  her  to  marry  him.  This  was  a  joke,  as  far  as  Clementina  was  concerned.  'There  were  strange  festas  in  he  new  world-one  with  a  turkey  and  no  saints-and  then  there  was  the  festa  of  the  Natale,  and  she  her-  self  had  nev  er  seen  any  th  ing  so  dis-courteous  to  the  Holy  Virgin  and  the  s  ainted  baby.  First  they  bought  a  green  tree  and  then  they  put  it  up  in  the  sal  one  and  hung  i  t  with  shining  necklaces,  as  if  it  was  a  holy  saint  with  t  he  pow  er  of  curing  evil  and  hearing  prayers.  Mamma  mia.  A  tre  e!  She  was  confessed  by  a  priest  who  gave  her  the  tail  of  the  Devil  for  not  coming  to  church  every  Sunday  of  her  life  and  who  was  ver  y  rigid.  When  she  went  to  Ma  ss,  they  took  the  collection  three  times.  She  thought  that  when  she  returned  to  4974616c79  s  he  would  write  an  article  for  the  paper  about  the  church  in  this  new  world  where  there  was  not  even  the  wristbone  of  a  saint  to  kiss  and  where  they  made  offerings  to  a  green  tree  and  forgot  the  travail  of  the  Holy  Virgin  and  took  the  collect  ion  three  times.  And  then  there  was  the  snow,  but  it  was  more  carina  tha  n  the  snow  in  Nascosta-there  were  no  wolves,  and  the  signori  skied  in  the  mountains,  and  the  children  played  in  the  snow  and  the  house  was  always  w  arm.  She  still  went  with  Joe  every  Sunday  to  the  movies,  where  he  told  her  the  story  ,  asked  her  to  marry  him,  and  pinched  her.  Once,  before  the  movies,  h  e  stopped  at  a  fine  house  all  m  ade  of  wood  and  neatly  painted,  and  he  un-  locked  the  door  and  took  h  er  upstairs  to  a  nice  apartment  with  paper  on  t  he  walls,  the  floor  shining  with  varnish,  and  five  rooms  in  all,  wit  h  a  modern  bathroom,  and  he  said  that  if  she  would  marry  him  it  would  all  be  hers.  He  would  buy  her  a  machine  for  washing  the  dishes  and  a  machine  for  beating  the  eggs  and  a  frying  pan  like  the  signora  had  that  knew  when  to  turn  off  the  sal-  timbocca  alla  romana.  When  she  asked   (Win  321  (\xe2\x80\x9cI  him  where  he  would  find  all  the  money  to  do  this,  he  said  that  he  had  saved  sev-  enteen  thousand  dollars,  and  he  took  a  book  out  of  his  pocket,  a  bankbook,  and  there  was  stamped  in  it  seventeen  thou-  sand  two  hundred  and  thirty  dollars  and  seventeen  cents.  It  would  all  be  hers  if  she  would  come  and  be  his  wife.  She  said  no,  but  after  the  movies,  when  she  was  in  bed,  it  made  her  sad  to  think  of  all  the  machinery  and  she  wished  that  she  had  never  come  to  the  new  world.  Nothing  would  ever  be  the  same  again.  When  she  went  back  to  Nascosta  and  told  them  that  a  man-not  a  beautiful  man,  but  one  who  was  honest  and  gen-  tle-had  offered  her  seventeen  thou-  sand  dollars  and  a  place  with  five  rooms,  they  would  never  believe  her.  They  would  think  she  was  crazy,  and  how  could  she  lie  again  on  straw  in  acold  room  and  be  contented?  Her  imper-  manent  visa  expired  in  April  and  she  would  have  to  go  home  then,  but  the  signore  said  that  he  could  apply  for  an  extension  if  she  liked,  and  she  begged  him  to  do  this.  In  the  kitchen  one  night,  she  heard  them  speaking  in  low  voices  and  she  guessed  they  were  speaking  about  her  affairs,  but  he  did  not  speak  to  her  until  much  later  when  the  others  had  goneup  and  she  came  into  the  room  to  say  good  night.  &quot;I'm  very  sorry,  Clementina,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;but  they  won't  give  me  an  ex-  tension.&quot;  &quot;It  doesn't  matter,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;If  I  am  not  wanted  in  this  country,  I  will  go  home.&quot;  &quot;It  isn't  that,  Clementina,  it's  the  law.  I'm  very  sorry.  Your  visa  expires  on  the  twelfth.  I'll  get  you  passage  on  a  boat  before  then.&quot;  &quot;'Thank  you,  Signore,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Good  night.&quot;  She  would  go  back,  she  thought.  She  would  take  the  boat,  she  would  debark  at  Naples,  she  would  catch  a  train  at  the  Mergellina  and  in  4974616c79  a  pullman,  and  " b"go  out  the  Tiburtina  with  the  curtains  of  the  bus  swaying  and  the  purple  clouds  of  exhaust  rolling  out  behind  them  when  they  climbed  the  hill  at  [REDACTED].  Her  eyes  filled  with  tears  when  she  thought  of  kissing  Mamma  and  giving  her  the  silver-framed  photograph  of  Dana  An-  drews  thatshe  had  bought  at  Wool-  worth's  for  her  present.  Then  she  would  sit  on  the  piazza  with  sucha  ring  of  people  around  her  as  would  form  for  an  accident,  speaking  in  her  own  tongue  and  drinking  the  wine  they  had  made  and  talking  about  the  new  world  where  there  were  frying  panswith  brains  and  where  even  the  powder  for  cleaning  the  gabinetti  smelled  of  roses.  She  saw  the  scene  distinctly,  the  fountain  spray  blowing  on  the  wind,  but  then  she  saw  gathering  in  the  imagined  faces  of  her  townsmen  a  look  of  disbelief.  Who  would  believe  her  tales?  Who  would  listen?  They  would  have  admired  her  if  she  had  seen  the  Devil,  like  [REDACTED]  Maria,  but  she  had  seen  a  sort  of  para-  dise  and  no  one  cared.  In  leaving  one  world  andcoming  to  another  she  had  lost  both.  Then  she  opened  and  reread  a  pack-  age  of  letters  written  from  Nascosta  by  her  Uncle  Sebastiano.  That  night,  his  letters  all  seemed  dolorous.  The  autumn  had  come  on  quickly,  he  wrote,  and  it  was  cold,  even  in  September,  and  many  ofthe  olives  and  the  grapes  were  lost,  and  la  bomba  atomica  had  ruined  the  seasons  of  4974616c79.  Now  the  shadow  of  the  town  fell  over  the  valley  earlier,  and  she  remembered  herself  the  beginnings  of  winter-the  sudden  hoarfrost  lying  on  the  grapes  and  wild  flowers,  and  the  contadini  coming  in  at  dark  on  their  asini,  loaded  down  with  roots  and  other  scraps  of  wood,  for  wood  was  hard  to  find  in  that  country  and  one  would  ride  ten  kilometri  for  a  bundle  of  green  olive  cuttings,  and  she  could  remember  the  cold  in  her  bones  and  see  the  asini  against  the  yellow  light  of  evening  and  hear  the  lonely  noise  of  stones  falling  down  the  steep  path,  falling  away  from  ther  hoofs.  And  in  December  Sebastiano  wrote  that  it  was  again  the  time  of  the  wolves.  The  tempo  infame  had  come  again  to  Nascosta,  and  wolves  had  killed  six  of  the  padrone's  sheep,  and  there  was  no  abbacchio,  and  no  eggs,  either,  for  pasta,  and  the  piazza  was  buried  in  snow  up  to  the  edge  of  the  fountain,  and  they  knew  hunger  and  cold,  and  she  could  remember  both.  The  room  where  she  read  these  let-  ters  was  warm.  The  lights  were  pink.  She  had  a  silver  ashtray  like  a  signora,  and,  if  she  had  wanted,  in  her  private  bathroom  she  could  have  drawn  a  hot  bath  up  to  her  neck.  Did  the  Holy  Vir-  gin  mean  for  her  to  live  in  a  wilderness  and  die  of  starvation?  Was  it  wrong  to  takethe  comforts  that  were  held  out  to  her?  The  faces  of  her  people  appeared  to  her  again,  and  how  dark  was  their  skin,  their  hair,  and  their  eyes,  she  thought,  as  if  through  living  with  fair  people  she  had  taken  on  the  dispositions  and  the  prejudices  of  the  fair.  The  faces  seemed  to  regard  her  with  reproach,  with  earthen  patience,  with  a  sweet,  dignified,  and  despairing  regard,  but  why  should  she  be  compelled  to  return  and  drink  sour  wine  in  the  darkness  of  the  hills?  In  this  new  world  they  had  found  the  secret  of  youth,  and  would  the  saints  in  Heaven  have  refused  a  life  of  youthfulness  if  it  had  been  God's  will?  She  remembered  how  in  Nascosta  even  the  most  beautiful  fell  quickly  under  the  darkness  of  time,  like  flowers  without  care;  how  even  the  most  beautiful  be-  came  bent  and  toothless,  their  dark  clothes  smelling,  as  the  Mamma's  did,  of  smoke  and  manure.  But  in  this  country  she  could  have  forever  white  teeth  and  color  in  her  hair.  Until  the  day  she  died  she  would  have  shoes  with  heels  and  rings  on  her  fingers,  and  theattention  of  men,  for  in  this  new  world  one  lived  ten  lifetimes  and  never  felt  the  pinch  of  V  &lt;  age;no,  never.  She  would  marry  Joe.  She  would  stay  here  and  live  ten  lives,  with  a  skin  like  marble  and  always  the  teeth  with  which  to  bite  the  meat.  N  the  next  night,  her  signore  told  her  when  the  boats  were  leaving,  and  when  he  had  finished  she  said,  &quot;I  am  not  going  back.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  understand.&quot;  &quot;I  will  marry  Joe.&quot;  &quot;But  Joe's  a  great  deal  older  than  you,  Clementina.&quot;  &quot;Joe  is  sixty-three.&quot;  &quot;And  you?&quot;  &quot;I  am  twenty-four.&quot;  &quot;Do  you  love  Joe?&quot;  &quot;Oh  no,  Signore.  How  could  I  love  him,  with  his  big  paunch  like  a  sackful  of  apples  and  so  many  wrinkles  at  the  back  of  his  neck  you  could  tell  your  for-  tune  there?  It  is  not  possible.&quot;  &quot;Clementina,  I  admire  Joe,&quot;  the  signore  said.  &quot;He's  an  honest  man.  If  you  marry  him,  you  must  care  for  him.&quot;  &quot;Oh,  I'll  care  for  him,  Signore.  I'll  make  his  bed  and  cook  his  supper,  but  I  will  never  let  him  touch  me.&quot;  He  deliberated,  looked  down  atthe  floor,  and  finally  said,  &quot;I  will  not  let  you  marry  Joe,  Clementina.&quot;  &quot;But  why?&quot;  &quot;I  won't  let  you  marry  him  unless  you'll  be  his  wife.  You  must  love  him.&quot;  &quot;But  Signore,  in  Nascosta  there  would  be  no  sense  in  marrying  a  man  whose  land  did  not  adjoin  yours,  and  does  that  mean  then  that  your  heart  will  fly  out  to  him?&quot;  &quot;'This  is  not  Nascosta.&quot;  &quot;But  all  marriages  are  like  this,  Signore.  If  people  married  for  love,  the  world  would  not  be  a  place  in  which  to  live,  it  would  be  a  hospital  for  the  mad.  Did  not  the  Signora  marry  you  because  of  the  money  and  the  conveniences  you  bring  her?&quot;  He  did  not  answer,  but  she  saw  his  face  flush  dark  with  blood.  &quot;Oh  Signore,  my  Signore,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;you  " b"talk  like  a  boy  with  stars  in  your  eyes,  a  thin  boy  at  the  fountain,  his  head  full  of  the  poesia.  I  am  only  trying  to  unfold  to  you  that  I  am  only  marrying  Joe  so  that  I  can  stay  in  this  country,  and  you  are  talking  like  a  boy.&quot;  &quot;I  am  not  talking  like  a  boy,&quot;  he  said.  Then  he  rose  from  the  chair.  &quot;I  am  not  talking  like  a  boy.  Who  do  you  think  you  are?  When  you  came  to  us  in  4974616c79  you  didn't  have  shoes  or  a  coat.&quot;  &quot;Signore,  you  do  not  understand  me.  Perhaps  Iwill  love  him,  but  I  am  only  trying  to  unfold  to  you  that  I  am  not  marrying  for  love.&quot;  &quot;And  that's  what  I'm  trying  to  ex-  plain  to  you.  I  won't  stand  for  it.&quot;  &quot;I  will  leave  your  house,  Signore.&quot;  &quot;I'm  responsible  for  you.&quot;  &quot;No,  Signore.  Joe  is  responsible  for  me  now.&quot;  &quot;Then  get  out  of  my  house.&quot;  She  went  upstairs  to  her  room  and  cried  and  cried,  in  anger  and  pity  for  this  grown  fool,  but  she  packed  her  things.  In  the  morning  she  cooked  the  breakfast,  but  she  stayed  in  the  kitchen  until  the  signore  had  gone  to  work,  and  then  the  signora  came  down  and  cried,  and  the  children  cried,  and  at  noon  Joe  came  to  get  her  in  his  car  and  took  her  to  the  Pelluchis',  who  were  paisani  and  with  whom  she  would  stay  until  she  and  Joe  were  married.  Maria  Pelluchi  explained  to  her  that  in  the  new  world  one  was  married  like  a  princess,  and  this  was  so.  For  three  weeks  she  was  in  and  out  of  the  stores  with  Maria-first  to  buy  the  wedding  dress  for  herself,  all  white  and  the  latest  mode,  with  a  tail  of  satin  to  drag  along  the  ground,  but  economical,  too,  because  the  tail  could  be  adjusted,  making  the  dress  like  a  costume  for  the  grand  evening.  'Then  there  were  the  costumes  for  Maria  and  her  sister,  who  would  be  theattendants,  and  these  were  yellow  and  lavender  and  could  beused  later  as  costumes  for  the  evening.  'Then  there  were  the  shoes  and  the  flowers  and  the  clothes  for  travelling  and  the  suit-  case,  and  nothing  was  rented.  And  when  the  day  of  the  wedding  arrived  she  was  so  tired  that  she  had  milk  in  the  knees  and  walked  through  it  all  like  a  dream,  of  which  she  could  remember  very  little.  'There  were  many  paisani  at  the  reception  and  much  wine,  food,  and  music,  and  then  she  took  with  Joe  a  train  to  New  York,  where  the  buildings  were  so  tall  they  made  her  feel  homesick  and  of  little  importance.  In  New  York,  they  spent  the  night  in  a  hotel,  and  the  next  day  they  took  a  di-lusso  train,  only  for  signori  who  were  going  to  Atlantic  City,  with  a  special  chair  for  each  passenger  and  a  waiter  to  bring  things  to  eat  and  drink.  She  hung  behind  her  chair  the  mink  stole  that  Joe  had  givenher  for  a  pres-  ent,  and  everyone  saw  it  and  admired  it  and  judged  her  to  be  a  rich  signora.  Joe  called  the  waiter  over  and  told  him  to  bring  some  whiskey  and  seltz,  but  the  waiter  pretended  not  to  understand  what  Joe  was  saying  and  to  be  so  busy  waiting  on  other  people  that  they  would  have  to  be  the  last,  and  she  felt  again  that  shame  and  anger  at  discovering  that  because  they  couldnot  speak  elegantly  the  language  of  this  new  country  they  would  be  treated  with  great  discourtesy,  as  if  they  were  pigs.  And  that  is  the  way  they  were  treated  on  the  passage,  for  the  waiter  did  not  come  near  them  again,  as  _  if  their  money  was  not  as  good  as  the  money  of  the  others.  They  went  first  through  a  great,  dark  galleria  and  then  out  into  a  country  that  was  ugly  and  potent  with  fire  exploding  from  many  chimneys,  and  there  were  trees  and  riv-  ers  and  places  for  boating.  She  looked  out  of  the  window  at  the  country  that  streamed  by  as  swiftly  and  gently  as  wa-  ter,  to  see  if  it  was  as  fair  as  4974616c79,  but  what  she  saw  was  that  it  was  not  her  country,  her  earth.  Near  the  cities  they  passed  those  places  where  the  poor  lived  and  where  washing  was  hung  on  lines,  and  she  thought  that  this  was  the  same-  that  washing  on  lines  must  be  the  same  all  over  the  world.  And  the  houses  of  the  poor  were  the  same,  too,  the  way  they  leaned  against  one  another  and  had  gar-  dens  that  were  not  commodious  but  that  were  cultivated,  you  could  see,  with  gentleness  and  love.  It  was  in  the  mid-  " b'dle  of  the  day  or  later  when  they  left,  and,  as  theysped  through  the  country  and  the  afternoon,  she  saw  that  the  schools  were  closing  and  that  on  the  streets  there  were  many  children  car-  rying  books  and  riding  bicycles  and  play-  ing  games,  and  many  of  them  waved  to  the  train  as  it  rolled  along  and  she  waved  back  to  them.  She  waved  to  some  children  who  were  walking  through  the  high  grass  in  a  field,  and  she  waved  to  two  boys  on  a  bridge,  and  she  waved  to  an  old  man,  and  they  all  waved  back  to  her,  and  she  waved  to  three  girls,  and  she  waved  to  a  lady  who  was  pushing  a  baby  carriage,  and  she  waved  to  a  little  boy  who  was  wearing  a  yellow  coat  and  carrying  a  valise,  and  he  waved  back.  They  all  waved  back.  Then  she  could  see  that  they  were  coming  close  to  the  ocean,  for  there  was  a  bareness  in  the  air  and  not  so  many  trees  and  many  pictures  of  hotels  painted  on  wood  say-  ing  how  many  hundreds  of  rooms  they  had  and  how  many  different  kinds  of  places  for  drinking  cocktails,  and  she  was  happy  to  see  the  name  of  their  hotel  on  one  of  these  signs  and  to  be  sure  that  it  was  di  lusso.  Then  the  train  stopped  and  it  was  the  end  of  the  passage  and  she  felt  shy  and  timid,  but  Joe  said  andiamd,  and  the  waiter  who  had  been  so  discourteous  to  them  took  their  bags  away  and  reached  for  her  mink  stole,  but  she  said,  &quot;No,  thank  you,&quot;  and  got  it  away  from  him,  the  pig.  And  then  there  was  the  largest  black  car  she  had  ever  seen  in  her  life,  with  a  sign  on  it  saying  the  name  of  their  hotel,  and  they  got  into  this  with  some  other  people,  but  they  did  not  speak  to  one  another  on  the  passage,  because  shedid  not  want  the  others  to  know  that  she  could  not  speak  the  language  of  this  country.  The  hotel  was  very  di  lusso,  and  they  ascended  in  an  elevator,  and  walked  down  a  hall  that  was  covered  with  thick  carpet,  into  a  fine  room,  also  with  thick  carpet  everywhere,  and  a  toilet-only  with  no  bidet-and  when  the  waiter  had  gone  Joe  got  a  bottle  of  whiskey  out  of  his  valise  and  had  a  drink  and  asked  her  to  come  and  sit  in  his  lap,  and  she  said  a  little  later,  later,  for  it  was  un-  lucky  in  the  daylight,  and  it  would  be  better  to  wait  for  the  moon  to  rise,  and  she  would  like  to  go  down  and  see  the  dining  rooms  and  lounges.  She  won-  dered  if  the  salt  air  would  be  bad  for  the  mink,  and  Joe  had  another  drink,  and  out  of  the  window  she  could  see  the  ocean  and  the  lines  of  white  waves  com-  ing  in,  and  because  the  windows  were  closed  and  she  couldnot  hear  the  sound  the  waves  made  when  they  broke,  it  seemed  like  something  she  was  dream-  ing.  They  went  down  again,  not  speak-  ing,  because  she  had  distinctly  come  to  feel  that  it  was  better  not  to  speak  the  bella  lingua  in  such  a  luxurious  place,  and  they  looked  in  the  bars  and  dining  rooms,  which  were  grand,  and  then  went  out  onto  a  broad  walk  beside  the  sea  and  there  was  salt  in  the  air,  like  4974616c79,  and  it  smelled  like  4974616c79,  and  there  was  also  a  smell  of  frying  food  in  the  air,  which  reminded  her  of  the  feast  of  San  Giuseppe  in  4974616c79.  On  one  side  of  them  was  the  green,  cold  sea,  which  she  had  crossed  to  come  to  this  new  world,  and  on  the  other  side  of  them  there  were  many  diverting  things.  They  walked  along  until  they  came  to  the  gypsies,  where  there  was  in  the  window  ' b" a  drawing  of  the  human  hand  and  where  one's  fortune  could  be  told,  and  when  she  asked  if  theycouldspeak  Italian  they  said,  &quot;Si,  si,  si,  non  C'\xc3\xa9  dubbio!,&quot;  and  Joe  gave  her  a  dollar,  and  she  went  behind  acurtain  with  the  gyp-  sy,  who  looked  at  her  hand  and  began  to  tell  her  fortune,  but  it  was  not  Italian  she  was  speaking,  it  was  a  bastard  lan-  guage  ofa  little  Spanish  and  a  little  something  that  Clementina  had  never  heard  before,  and  she  couldonly  under-  stand  a  word  here  and  there,  like  &quot;the  sea&quot;  and  &quot;the  voyage,&quot;  but  she  could  not  tell  if  this  was  a  voyage  she  would  make  or  a  voyage  she  had  made,  and  she  became  impatient  with  the  gypsy,  who  had  made  a  lie  in  saying  that  she  spoke  in  Italian,  and  she  asked  for  her  money  back,  but  the  gypsy  said  that  if  the  money  was  given  back  there  would  be  a  curse  on  it.  And  knowing  what  strong  curses  the  gypsies  make,  she  did  not  create  a  further  disturbance,  and  went  out  where  Joe  was  waiting  for  her  on  the  wooden  walk,  and  walked  along  again  between  the  green  sea  and  the  diversions  of  frying  food,  where  peo-  ple  called  to  them  to  come  in  and  spend  their  money,  smiling  and  beckoning  wickedly  like  the  angels  of  Hell.  And  then  there  was  the  tramonto,  and  the  lights  went  on  gloriously  like  pearls,     1\xc2\xbb  O  and,  looking  back,  she  could  see  the  pink  windows  of  the  hotel  where  they  were  known,  where  they  had  a  room  of  their  own  they  could  return  to  when  they  pleased,  and  the  noise  of  the  sea  sounded  like  distant  blasting  in  the  mountains.  She  was  a  good  wife  to  him,  and  in  the  morning  he  was  so  grateful  that  he  bought  her  a  silver  dish  for  the  butter  and  a  cover  for  the  ironing  board  and  a  pair  of  red  pants,  laced  with  gold.  The  mother  would  give  her  the  tail  of  the  Devil,  she  knew,  for  wearing  pants,  and  in  4974616c79  she  herself  would  spit  in  the  eye  ofa  woman  who  was  so  badly  educated  as  to  wear  pants,  but  this  was  a  new  world  and  it  was  no  sin,  and  in  the  afternoon  she  wore  the  mink  stole  and  the  red  pants  and  went  with  Joe  upand  down  the  wooden  walk  above  the  sea.  On  Saturday  they  went  home,  and  on  Monday  they  bought  the  furniture,  and  on  Thursday  it  was  de-  livered,  and  on  Friday  she  put  on  the  red  pants  and  went  to  the  supermarket  with  Maria  Pelluchi,  who  explained  the  labels  on  the  boxes  to  her,  and  she  looked  so  much  like  an  556e6974656420537461746573n  that  people  were  surprised  when  she  could  not  speak  the  language.  But  if  she  could  not  speak  the  lan-  guage  she  could  do  everything  else,  and  she  even  learned  to  drink  whiskey  with-  out  coughing  and  spitting.  In  the  morning,  she  would  turn  on  all  the  ma-  chines  and  watch  the  TV,  learning  the  words  of  thesongs,  and  in  the  after-  noons  Maria  Pelluchi  came  to  her  house  and  they  watched  the  TV  together,  and  in  the  evening  she  watched  it  with  Joe.  She  tried  to  write  the  mother  about  the  things  she  had  bought-much  finer  things  than  the  Pope  possessed-but  she  realizedthat  the  letter  would  only  be-  wilder  the  mother,  and  in  the  end  she  sent  her  nothing  but  postcards.  No  one  could  describe  how  diverting  and  com-  modious  her  life  had  become.  In  the  summer,  in  the  evenings,  Joe  took  her  to  the  races  in  [REDACTED],  and  she  had  never  seen  anything  so  carina-the  lit-  tle  horses  and  the  lights  and  the  flow-  ers  and  the  red  coat  of  the  marshal  with  his  bugle.  'That  summer,  they  went  to  the  races  every  Friday  and  sometimes  oftener,  and  it  was  one  night  there,  when  she  was  wearing  her  red  pants  and  drinking  whiskey,  that  she  saw  her  signore  for  the  first  time  since  they  had  quarrelled.  She  asked  him  how  he  was,  and  how  was  his  family,  and  he  said,  &quot;We  are  not  together.  We  are  divorced.&quot;  Looking  into  his  face  then,  she  saw  not  the  end  of  his  marriage  but  the  end  of  his  happi-  ness.  The  advantage  was  hers,  because  hadn't  she  explained  to  him  that  he  was  like  a  boy  with  starsin  his  eyes,  but  some  part  of  his  loss  seemed  to  be  hers  as  well.  Then  he  went  away,  and  although  the  race  was  beginning,  she  saw  instead  the  white  snow  and  the  wolves  of  Nascosta,  the  pack  coming  up  the  Via  Cavour  and  crossing  the  piazza  as  if  they  were  bent  on  some  errand  of  that  darkness  that  she  knew  to  lie  at  the  heart  of  life,  and,  remembering  the  cold  on  her  skin  and  the  whiteness  of  the  snow  and  the  stealth  of  the  wolves,  she  wondered  why  the  good  God  Had  opened  up  so  many  choices  and  made  life  so  strange  and  diverse.  "