 b"ONE  chilly  late-April  Sunday  in    1939,  at  the  very  end  of  the  [REDACTED]  winter,  my  fam-  ily  and  I  made  our  annual  pre-season  drive  from  [REDACTED]  to  our  red  shingled  bungalow  in  the  Grove-a  lake-shore  colony  in  a  town  I  shall  call  Sharmon,  where  we  spent  our  summers.  I  always  cherished  those  advance  trips.  The  Grove  at  that  time  of  the  year  was  a  strangely  attractive  place  for  me,  with-  out  its  warm-weather  trappings  and  confusions,  its  swimmers  and  boaters,  its  fishermen  and  pinochle  players.  The  small  wooden  houses  along  Pond  Ave-  nue  were  boarded  up-except  for  that  of  Morris  Fein,  the  Grove's  one  stal-  wart  year-round  resident-and  all  the  R.F.D.  mailboxes  were  atilt  from  the  ravages  of  winter.  The  familiar  com-  munal  &quot;raft&quot;  (which  was  really  a  pier  jutting  into  a  marshy  cove  of  Lake  Massasoit)  was  dismantled  and  its  sec-  tions  stored  like  unlit  bonfires  in  Mr.  Fein's  back  yard,  waiting  for  reassembly  on  the  first  really  hot  sunny  day.  For  me,  there  was  a  kind  of  petrified  peace,  promising  future  excitement,  about  the  community.  That  1939  trip,  like  the  pre-season  journeys  of  other  years,  wasn't  merely  for  pleasure.  There  was  a  definite  practical  pur-  pose-to  make  our  house  and  grounds  presentable  for  the  summer.  That  year,  the  tasks  involved  were  rather  loosely  as-  signed.  My  mother,  my  sis-  ter,  and  our  maid,  Nellie,  had  the  light  houseclean-  ing  chores  to  perform,  and  my  father  was  to  do  the  in-  side  heavy  work.  I  had  re-  cently  turned  eight  years  old,  and  for  the  first  time  since  these  trips  began  I  was  given  a  job  to  do-sanding  our  skiff,  which  was  drydocked  forthe  win-  ter  in  the  garage.  But  the  truly  im-  portant  person  in  the  refurbishing  was,  as  usual,  Orville  Clarke,  our  favorite  of  the  Grove's  two  handymen.  Mr.  Clarke  was  a  far  better  worker  than  Fred  Grist,  his  competitor.  Our  man  was  a  master  carpenter,  a  master  painter,  an  adequate  mason,  and,  in  general,  a  dour,  efficient  Jack-of-all-  trades.  Fred,  on  the  other  hand,  had  an  unfortunate  tendency  to  loaf.  He  would  arrive  at  work  blear-eyed  with  drink,  complain  about  his  unappetizing,  nagging  wife,  and  spend  hours,  it  seemed,  slicing  off  a  delicious-looking  hunk  of  plug  chewing  tobacco  with  his  -     jackknife  and  then  rubbing  it  in  his  palms.  'The  Grove  residents  divided  their  loyalties  fairly  evenly  between  the  twohandymen,  but  everybody  recog-  nized  the  qualitative  difference  and  marked  it  by  invariably  referring  to  one  as  Mr.  Clarke  and  to  the  other  as  Fred.  Unlike  the  latter,  who  had  an  enor-  mous,  almost  tragic  family  and  lived  squalidly  beside  the  New  Haven  Rail-  road  tracks,  Mr.  Clarke  was  a  recluse,  who  lived  beside  the  lake  in  a  one-room  shack  of  his  own  construction,  withonly  a  threadbare  mongrel  and  a  1924  Reo  truck  for  company.  He  was  a  native  of  Hamilton,  Ontario,  who  had  come  to  [REDACTED]  after  the  First  World  War  to  begin  a  new  life.  One  could  never  really  tell  whether  that  new  life  suited  him  or  not;  he  rarely  discussed  himself-or  anything  else,  for  that  mat-  ter-and  consequently  became  one  of  the  enigmas  of  the  Grove.  Mr.  Clarke's  face,  like  his  whole  body,  seemed  to  be  composed  of  tri-  angles.  His  head  itself  was  a  near-per-  fect  inverted  isosceles,  with  his  flat,  bald  pate  providing  the  base  and  the  sides  of  his  face  forming  the  legs.  His  nose  and  ears  were  so  constructed  that  they  emerged  like  smaller  versions  of  the  grander  isosceles,  and  the  entire  sense  of  devilish  tri-  angularity  was  broken  only  by  a  bulging  intel-  lectual's  forehead  and  extraordinarily  bushy  eye-  brows  that  almost  joined.  The  rest  of  his  body  neatly  tapered  down  to  his  feet  in  a  straight,  impressive  series  of  lines.  It  was  a  sin-  gular  joy  for  me  to  watch  the  taciturn,  geometrically  designed  Mr.  Clarke  at  work.  During  the  summer,  I  would  stare  at  him  for  hours  as  he  went  about  his  odd  jobs  on  our  place.  Yet,  perhaps  because  he  never  showed  a  hintof  friendliness  toward  me,  I  was  terrified  of  him.  By  the  usual  prearrangement,  Mr.  Clarke  had  agreed  to  put  aside  his  off-  season  work  (cabinetmaking  and  boat-  building  )  that  April  Sunday  to  meet  my  father  and  do  the  outside  heavy  work.  While  the  three  women  began  bustling  about  inside  the  house,  I  stood  eagerly  next  to  my  father  and  listened  to  him  in-  struct  Mr.  Clarke  about  cleaning  the  gutters  and  taking  down  the  shutters.  When  the  instructions  were  over,  my  father  handed  me  some  sheets  of  sand-  paper  and,  with  the  quasi-tolerant  look  ofa  man  who  knew  all  too  well " b"sending  a  child  onan  adult's  errand,  told  me  to  smooth  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  rowboat  so  that  it  would  be  ready  for  painting  later  on.  He  said  Mr.  Clarke  would  saw  offa  block  of  wood  for  me  to  use  as  a  sanding  block.  Keeping  a  respectful  few  feet  behind  the  handyman,  I  followed  him  into  the  tiny  garage,  where  the  lumber,  tools,  and  boat  were  stored.  He  wordlessly  sawed  a  chunk  of  wood,  using  his  knee  as  a  fulcrum,  and  handed  it  to  me.  I  was  hoping  he  would  ask  me  to  assist  him  outside,  just  as  I  always  dared  to  hope  such  things,  but  he  said  nothing.  Aching  to  talk  to  him,  especially  since  I  hadn't  seen  him  since  September,  I  opened  my  mouth  to  say  at  least  &quot;Thank  you  for  the  block  of  wood,&quot;  when,  for  some  reason  known  only  to  an  eight-year-old  subconscious,  out  came  &quot;Why  do  you  live  all  alone  in  that  poor  funny  house,  Mr.  Clarke?&quot;  Before  I  finished  the  question,  I  real-  ized  I  had  said  something  wrong.  His  face  reddened,  and  he  glared  down  at  me;  his  starched  one-piece  overalls  made  him  look  terribly  tall.  &quot;Why  do  you  talk  like  that,  and  all?&quot;  he  said  coldly.  &quot;You  mind  your  own  business  and  be  quiet,  or  I'll  bite  your  arm,  do  you  hear?  Now,  smooth  your  boat  as  best  you  can.&quot;  His  tone  was  so  bitter  that  I  involun-  tarily  stepped  backward  and  bumped  my  elbow  hard  against  the  upside-down  skiff.  I  wanted  to  cry  out,  but  instead  I  muttered,  &quot;I  didn't  mean  anything  bad,  Mr.  Clarke.&quot;  I  don'tthink  he  heard  me,  because  he  threw  the  saw  |  down,  picked  up  a  nearby  ladder,  and  briskly  left  the  garage,  his  hammer  bouncing  about  in  its  loop  on  the  back  of  #  his  overalls.  I  clumsily  wrapped  the  sandpaper  around  the  wood  block  and  began  to  rub  one  of  the  gunwales,  feeling  both  guilty  and  hurt.  After  about  ten  minutes  of  halfhearted  work,  the  sandpaper  started  to  tear  and  crumple.  My  arms  ached,  and  I  had  picked  up  a  splinter  in  the  palm  of  my  hand.  The  job  had  become  dull  and  impossible,  and  I  threw  down  the  sandpaper  and  went  out  toinspect  thebare  trees  in  our  apple  orchard.  The  orchard  smelled  musky,  but  the  trees  were  appealing.  I  climbed  one  of  them,  and  from  my  vantage  point,  high  upon  a  sagging  branch,  I  slowly  surveyed  the  house,  the  lake,  the  muddy,  barren  ground,  and  the  Katz  bungalow  across  the  street,  boarded  up  and  lifeless  in  the  spring  chill.  Then  I  spied  Mr.  Clarke  at  work  on  our  roof.  He  was  digging  dead  leaves  and  sludge  out  of  the  gut-  ters  with  a  trowel  of  some  sort.  He " b"looked  brave  and  nonchalant  up  there  on  his  ladder,  as  though  his  precarious  position  meant  nothing  to  him.  Lean-  ing  on  the  apple-tree  branch,  I  tried  to  imitate  his  indifference  to  danger.  I  found  myself  half  wishing  he  would  fall,  just  to  show  who  was  the  better  man  in  the  long  run;  the  scare  he  had  given  me  hadn't  fully  worn  off.  But  after  a  while  I  felt  guilty  for  wishing  him  harm,  and  I  decided  that  maybe  I  should  try  to  make  amends.  I  LOWERED  myself  as  nimbly  as  I  could,  and  ran  down  the  driveway  and  around  the  house  to  the  foot  of  Mr.  Clarke's  ladder.  I  pretended  indiffer-  ence,  and  picked  up  some  stones  near  a  rose  trellis,  throwing  them  with  all  my  strength  at  the  mailbox  across  the  street  and  hoping  for  the  &quot;clunk&quot;  of  a  direct  hit.  The  mailbox  was  too  far  away  for  my  thin  right  arm,  and  the  missiles  never  came  near  it.  I  kept  throwing  anyway,  until  my  arm  started  to  hurt  again.  &quot;You  finished  your  smoothing  al-  ready?&quot;  Mr.  Clarke  said,  without  turn-  ing  around  or  seeming  to  care  particu-  larly  that  I  was  there  below  and  behind  him.  It  was  the  first  time  I  could  re-  member  that  Mr.  Clarke  had  ever  spontaneously  spoken  to  me,  and  that  cheered  me.  But  I  wasn't  pleased  enough  to  show  him  so.  &quot;I  hurt  myself,&quot;  I  said  petulantly.  He  was  silent  for  a  moment,  and  just  when  I  thought  he  had  exhausted  his  conversation,  he  said,  more  to  the  gutter  than  to  me,  &quot;In  some  of  your  places,  a  boy  like  you  would  put  in  a  full-day  man's  load  of  work,  just  like  that.  A  fellow  like  yourself  wouldn't  go  slipping  off  from  his  job  saying  he  hurt  himself  or  something  like  that,  and  all.  No,  he'd  do  what's  set  for  him  to  do  for  his  bread,  or  else  he'd  know  the  reason  why.  And  in  those  places  he  wouldn't  go  snooping  into  other  people's  affairs,  either,  if  he  knew  what's  good  for  him.&quot;  Some  of  the  sludge  he  had  just  dug  out  fell  near  me.  I  looked  up  at  him,  hoping  he  would  turn  his  head  and  talk  directly  to  me.  &quot;W  hat  places  are  that?&quot;  I  asked  him  brightly,  not  really  wanting  to  know  but  trying  to  keep  up  my  end  ofthe  discussion.  &quot;Oh,  places,&quot;  he  went  on,  with  growing  spirit.  &quot;You  ask  your  father  and  he'll  tell  you  what  places.  He  prob-  ably  even  came  from  some  of  those  places  himself.&quot;  &quot;My  father  came  from  [REDACTED],&quot;  I  offered.  Feeling  I  had  made  enough  headway  with  Mr.  Clarke,  I  dared  to  stand  lightly  on  the  first  rung  of  the  lad-" b"der.  He  didn't  seem  to  mind,  so  I  stayed  |_  there.  Yah,  that's  one  of  your  places,  that's  one  of  them,&quot;  he  said  thoughtfully.  &quot;''That's  one  of  the  main  places  where  kids  your  own  age  don'tstand  around  throwing  stones  all  day  and  bothering  your  workers  like  that,  and  all.  They  do  a  man's  day's  work  for  their  bread  over  there.  [REDACTED]  and  even  4974616c79  are  other  places  like  that.  'They're  the  other  places,  and  they're  on  the  right  track,  all  right,  as  long  as  your  Roosevelt  would  leave  them  be.&quot;  I  didn't  think  it  wise  to  argue  with  him  much  longer,  but  he  was  unques-  tionably  in  a  mood  for  talking,  and  I  was  still  rather  proud  to  beapart  of  this  important  event.  Just  to  be  out  of  harm's  way,  though,  I  descended  from  the  ladder  rung  and  walked  off  to  one  side  so  I  could  see  his  odd,  triangular  profile.  He  went  on  cleaning  and  talk-  ing.  &quot;Yah,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;over  there  they  don't  fool  around  with  idlers,.  When  a  young  fellow  don't  produce,  why,  he's  just  not  allowed  to  eat  his  share,  just  like  that.  And  if  he  still  don't  pull  his  weight,  why,  then  they  get  rid  of  him  or  something,  so  they  don't  have  them  laying  around  like  your  loafers  that  eat  up  good  food  but  don't  pull  their  weight  and  grow  fat  on  the  other  man's  sweat,  like  people  around  here.  I  bet  that's  why  your  father  left  over  there-be-  cause  he  didn't  want  to  pull  his  weight  but  wanted  to  live  high  off  on  someone  else  and  grow  fat.&quot;  &quot;My  father  left  [REDACTED]  because  the  Czar  was  bad  to  him  and  his  town,&quot;  I  said  defiantly.  The  handyman  took  his  hammer  out  of  its  loop  and  began  to  bang  a  loose  shingle  near  the  gutter  lip.  When  he  stopped  hammering,  he  looked  directly  at  me  for  the  first  time  and,  in  a  controlled,  low  voice,  said,  Maybe  so,  you  smarty  kid  you,  but,  all  the  same,  he's  here,  like  all  of  them  are-all  the  Jew  people  around  here-  to  make  money  off  on  the  worker's  sweat,  to  grab  up  the  money  profits.  I'm  not  saying  you  people  are  the  only  ones  doing  that.  There  are  plenty  of  them,  all  out  after  the  money  because  that's  the  only  work  they  know  about-money.  Over  there-in  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED]  and  4974616c79-they  don't  bother  about  the  money,  but  they  give  you  what  you  got  coming  to  you.  Like  you  need  a  new  suit  of  clothes  and  you  earned  a  new  suit  of  clothes  by  your  sweat  and  labors,  they  give  you  a  permission,  and  it  gets  you  your  suit  of  clothes.  Or  you  need  a  new  truck,  they  give  it  to  you  because  you  got  it  coming  be-  " b"cause  you  sweated  for  it.  You  don't  need  money  over  there,  because  money  don't  buy  you  anything  but  headaches.  You  get  what  you  deserve  over  there.  They  weed  your  money  men  out  and  they  shoot  them-bang!-just  like  that!&quot;  He  simulated  a  pistol  with  his  forefinger  and  brought  his  thumb  down  on  it.  I  was  too  frightened  to  speak.  &quot;And  not  just  your  money  men,  either,&quot;  Mr.  Clarke  went  on.  &quot;They  weed  out  the  weak  and  the  lame  no-  goods  and  all  the  young  fellows  that  don't  pull  their  weight,  and  line  them  up  against  a  wall,  and  bang!  Kids  like  yourself  that  are  smarties  and  don't  earn  their  keep,  they  take  them  away  to  these  camps  and  get  rid  of  them  there,  so  that  they  don't  clutter  up  the  country  with  a  lot  of  dirty  little  weaklings.  They  put  them  out  of  their  misery,  you  might  say.  That's  how  you  make  nations  strong  over  there,  so  they  can  win  out  on  your  other  weakling  money  na-  tions.&quot;  &quot;Well,&quot;  I  said,  defiance  barely  show-  ing  through  my  shell  of  terror,  &quot;if-if  it's  so  good  over  there,  why  don't  you  go  there  yourself?&quot;  Mr.  Clarke  turned  and  started  swift,  ly  down  the  ladder,  with  his  back  to  the  house,  justas  easily  as  if  he  were  walk-  ing  down  a  carpeted  flight  of  stairs.  I  thought  he  was  coming  after  me,  and  I  wanted  to  run  for  it,  but  his  unortho-  dox  descent  so  startled  me  that  I  was  rooted  to  my  place.  He  didn't  look  at  me,  though,  but  only  moved  the  ladder  farther  along  the  side  of  the  house.  Then  he  climbed  right  back  up,  with  the  agility  of  a  monkey  going  up  a  palm  tree,  I  stood  my  ground,  sorely  wishing  my  father  would  come  by.  Neither  of  us  said  anything  for  a  while,  and  then  Mr.  Clarke  answered  my  question.  &quot;Sometimes  I  thought  of  it-going  there  myself,  just  like  that,  and  all,&quot;  he  said  in  a  quiet  way.  &quot;I'd  like  to,  only  I  don't  speak  none  of  their  language,  and  anyway  I  already  left  one  country,  up  north.  It  was  just  the  same  up  there-  money-grabbing  all  the  time  off  on  the  sweat  of  the  worker's  brow.  That's  why  I  up  and  left  up  there.  I  could  tell  you  some  stories  about  the  way  they  step  all  over  you  when  they  know  they  got  you.  Anyway,  I  fought  forthe  goddam  money  men  in  the  big  war,  and  I  told  myself  I  wasn't  going  to  fight  bloody  battles  so  people  like  you  can  take  in  your  money  profits.  Itold  myself  that  the  next  big  war  I  fight  in  is  going  to  be  against  the  money  men.  Then  this  friend  of  mine,  this  labor  fellow  in  Hamilton,  tells  me  that  the  class  war  is  going  to  be  in  the  [REDACTED]  first,  so  then " b"I  up  and  came  here,  and  all  I  see  is  your  money  men  making  more  and  more  profits  off  the  worker  all  the  time-  not  like  what  I  hear's  going  on  in  Ger-  many  and  [REDACTED],  where  they're  taking  care  of  the  dirty  little  money-grabbers.  Maybe  that's  why  I'm  staying  here-  so's  I  can  see  it  change  someday,  just  like  over  there,  and  we'll  get  rid  of  your  bastard  Roosevelt  and  all  the  money  kind.  Maybe  that's  why.&quot;  He  abrupt-  ly  turned  his  attention  from  the  trough  back  to  me.  &quot;You'll  see.  Someday  it's  going  to  change,  and  we'll  getpeople  like  your  father  and  youand  we'll  shoot  them  down,  or  something  worse  like  that.  Maybe  by  next  year  there'll  be  a  big  war,  and  then  your  people  won't  talk  so  smarty.&quot;  Mr.  Clarke  found  it  necessary  to  hammer  another  shingle,  and  as  he  banged  away  it  was  as  if  I  were  being  shot  at.  I  yearned  to  run  off  somewhere  and  hide,  or,  better  still,  to  pull  the  lad-  der  out  from  under  the  man  and  then  run  off.  I  felt  empty  and  frightened,  like  the  time  my  dog  had  been  run  over  and  my  parents  wouldn't  let  me  see  the  body  afterward.  I  just  stood  there,  shivering  slightly,  hoping  he'd  fall.  'The  hammering  stopped,  and  Mr.  Clarke  said,  &quot;Climb  up  here.  I  say,  climb  up  here  on  the  ladder  behind  me.&quot;  Stiff  with  terror  now,  I  obeyed  him.  He  turned  halfway  around  and  bent  down  until  our  faces  were  only  a  foot  or  two  apart.  &quot;Now  I  suppose  you're  going  blabbing  to  your  father  about  what  we  talked  about,&quot;  he  murmured.  &quot;I  suppose  you're  going  to  run  right  up  to  him  and  shoot  off  your  little  mouth  about  what  we  said,  and  all.  I  suppose  you're  going  to  do  something  just  like  that,  and  all.&quot;  I  had  to  hold  tightly  to  the  ladder.  &quot;I  don't  think  so,&quot;  I  managed  to  get  out.  &quot;Why  don't  you  promise,  then?&quot;  he  asked  intimately.  &quot;You  don't  want  to  bea  dirty  snitcher,  too,  do  you?&quot;  &quot;I  don'tthink  I'll  say  anything,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Well,  swear  it,&quot;  he  whispered  loudly,  bending  down  even  closer  to  me.  &quot;Swear  that  it's  a  secret  between  youand  me.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  want  to  swear  it,&quot;  I  said.  I  was  suddenly  afraid  I  was  going  to  fall  off.  &quot;Well,  just  promise,  then,&quot;  he  com-  manded.  &quot;O.K.,  I  promise,&quot;  I  said,  and  jumped  to  the  ground,  leaving  the  lad-  der  shaking.  I  ran  around  the  house,  arriving  at  the  apple  orchard,  and  climbed  the  same  tree  I  had  climbed " b"before,  so  I  could  keep  my  eye  on  Mr.  Clarke  for  the  rest  of  the  day.  Once,  I  saw  my  father  speak  to  him  through  a  raised  window,  and  I  wondered  if  my  father  knew  what  the  handyman  had  said  to  me.  Leaning  on  the  sagging  branch,  I  let  my  mind  run  over  and  over  what  had  happened.  LATE  that  afternoon,  Mr.  Clarke  climbed  into  his  old  Reo  truck  and  left  the  house.  We  all  took  one  last  look  around,  locked  up  the  house,  and  piled  into  our  Oldsmobile  for  the  trip  back  to  [REDACTED].  As  we  followed  the  winding  road  toward  the  main  concrete  highway,  my  father  and  mother  talked  about  minor  household  details,  and  then  the  conversation  turned  to  the  handy-  man.  &quot;That  Mr.  Clarke's  a  good,  strong  worker,&quot;  my  father  said.  &quot;Not  like  that  drunk  Fred.  Ben  Ruttman  can  keep  his  Fred;  I'll  take  Mr.  Clarke  any  day.&quot;  &quot;Mr.  Clarke  scares  me,  though,  sometimes,&quot;  my  mother  said.  &quot;I  mean,   the  way  he  lives  all  alone  acrossthe  lake  in  that  little  shack  of  his  and  never  speaks  to  anyone.  A  man  can  get  funny  ideas  that  way.  It's  not  natural.&quot;  I  tensed  myself  against  my  seat  in  the  back  of  the  car.  &quot;He  bit  me  on  the  arm,&quot;  I  announced,  near  tears.  &quot;W  hat!&quot;  cried  my  mother.  &quot;What  did  he  do?&quot;  &quot;He  bit  me,&quot;  I  insisted.  arm.&quot;  &quot;Show  me,&quot;  said  my  mother,  turn-  ing  around  and  quickly  grasping  my  rm.  &quot;Where?&quot;  I  held  out  my  hand  and  pointed  to  the  thin  black  splinter  I  had  picked  up  while  sanding  the  rowboat.  &quot;Why,  it's  nothing  but  a  little  splinter,&quot;  she  said,  dropping  my  arm.  &quot;I'll  take  it  out  with  a  hot  needle  whenwe  get  home.  What  do  you  make  up  such  crazy  stories  for?&quot; "