  EASTER  EGGS  AND  ENTERPRISE  SUPPOSE  it  is  the  prerogative  of  every  generation  as  it  grows  older  to  make  invidious  comparisons  be-  tween  the  way  things  are  and  the  way  they  used  to  be.  For  a  long  time,  how-  ever,  I  disdained  such  comparisons,  in  the  belief  that  they  are  a  sure  signal  of  incipient  middle  age.  Now  I  make  them  frequently,  with  complete  abandon.  The  turning  point  came  one  balmy  April  afternoon  a  few  years  ago,  after  an  Easter-egg  hunt  my  then  eight-year-  old  son,  Jeff,  and  some  of  his  friends  held  in  the  vacant  lot  next  to  our  house.  I  could  not  help  contrasting  that  hunt  with  the  exciting,  rough-and-tumble  ones  of  my  own  youth.  Children  in  the  small  Southern  town  where  I  grew  up  dressed  to  the  nines  for  Easter,  the  girls  in  bold  silk  prints  and  big  round  leghorn  hats  with  elastic  under  the  chin  and  rib-  bon  streamers  down  the  back,  the  boys  in  dark  flannel  jackets  and  light  flannel  pants;  once  Communion  services  were  over,  however,  and  the  time  for  the  egg  hunt  arrived,  we  shucked  our  finery,  along  with  most  of  our  graces,  and  got  down  to  the  grim  busi-  ness  of  trying  to  excel  each  other  in  the  fray.  Some  years,  all  the  eggs  were  supplied  by  one  parent  hostess;  in  others,  each  child  con-  tributed  his  share,  Ei-  ther  way,  once  the  eggs  were  hidden  and  the  children  called  to  the  field  of  contest,  it  be-  came  for  every  one  of  usa  matter  of  great  ur-  gency  and  pride  to  fill  his  basket  to  the  brim.  Casting  off  the  beauti-  ful  manners  that  had  been  so  painstakingly  drilled  into  us  over  the  years,  and  ignoring  our  mothers'  anguished  de-  murrers  from  the  sidelines,  we  raced  over  the  big  wooded  meadow  where  the  hunts  were  always  held,  clawing  at  tufts  of  grass,  snatching  up  old  pieces  of  bark,  and  poking  into  every  bush,  jostling  and  taunting  and  vying  with  each  other  un-  til  the  last  inch  of  territory  had  been  thoroughly  combed.  Then  we  all  sat  down-even  those  children  who  would  have  gagged  on  a  hard-boiled  egg  any  other  day  of  the  year-and,  after  boast-  fully  comparing  our  respective  piles  of  loot,  conspicuously  consumed  as  much  of  it  as  we  could  stuff  into  our  gullets.  The  hunt  my  son  and  his  friends  got     up  turned  out  to  be  quite  a  different  matter.  They  chose  to  make  it  a  co-  operative  affair,  with  each  child  re-  quired  to  bring  six  colored  eggs  for  the  common  fund.  Having  been  asked  to  do  the  hiding,  I  herded  the  participants  into  the  kitchen  when  they  arrived  at  our  house  that  warm  Easter  afternuon;  after  settling  them  on  the  floor,  I  pro-  ceeded  to  collect  their  eggs  in  a  large  wooden  bowl.  Faces  were  sober  and  not  a  word  was  spoken  as  I  passed  among  them  and  each  child  carefully-  indeed,  I  suddenly  realized,  rather  reluctantly-surrendered  his  contribu-  tion.  When  I  had  progressed  about  half-  way  around  the  room,  a  chubby  boy  paused  in  the  process  of  handing  over  his  eggs  and  asked,  &quot;But  what  if  somebody  finds  more  than  six?&quot;  Themurmur  that  went  up  from  the  rest  of  the  group  indicated  that  the  lad  had  spoken  what  was  on  practically  every  mind.  'That's  the  chance  you  take,&quot;  I  ex-  plained.  &quot;Some  of  you  may  find  a  doz-  en,  some  only  two  or  three.  But  you'll  all  have  the  same  op-  portunity.  The  thing  to  do  is  get  out  there  and  hustle!&quot;  I  exhorted,  sounding  like  Knute  Rockne  at  half  time.  &quot;Well,  I  still  don't  think  it's  fair  for  any-  body  to  get  more  than  six,  though,  because  that's  what  everybody  brought,&quot;  insisted  a  bright-faced  boy.  The  others  nodded  agree-  ment.  It  was  patent  that  too  many  years  had  passed  since  the  Coolidge  era,  when  competitiveness  in  children  was  still  smiled  upon.  Since  the  situation  clearly  called  for  an  old-fashioned  lecture  on  rugged  indi-  vidualism  and  the  American  Way,  I  set  about  the  task  of  eloquently  explaining  the  spirit  of  competition  and  the  rewards  of  enterprise-nothing  ventured,noth-  ing  gained,  and  all  that  sort  of  thing.  &quot;Of  course,&quot;  I  concluded,  throwing  a  bone  in  the  direction  of  John  Dewey,  &quot;it's  your  egg  hunt,  andyou  can  have  it  any  way  you  like.&quot;  There  was  a  moment  of  complete  silence.  Then,  &quot;I'm  for  everybody  has  to  quit  when  they  find  six,&quot;  said  a  pair  of  pigtails.  &quot;'Yeah,&quot;  seconded  a  familiar  voice    behind  me.  I  turned  and  saw  that  it  had  indeed  come  from  my  own  flesh  and  blood.  The  ensuing  vote  was  unanimous.  Chastened,  I  hid  the  eggs  in  the  vacant  lot,  called  the  children,  and  sat  down  on  an  old  fence  post  to  watch  the  pro-  ceedings.  Though  lively  enough,  the  activity  was  far  from  feverish.  After  each  child  found  a  sixth  egg,  he  retired  in  orderly  fashion  to  the  sidelines,  where  he  shouted  a  few  carping  remarks  to  the  &quot;slowpokes&quot;  still  in  the  hunt.  Gradually  it  came  upon  me  that  these  children  might  have  stumbled  into  the  best  of  all  possible  worlds.  With  grudg-  ing  admiration,  I  saw  that  they  had  chanced  upon  a  way  to  preserve  some-  thing  of  the  thrill  of  the  chase  without  risking  anything.  They  could  hunt  their  eggs  and  have  them,  too.  Initiative  did  not  go  unrewarded;  there  was  mild  prestige  in  having  been  among  the  first  to  find  the  bag  limit.  But  one  child's  entrepreneurial  gains  did  not  make  in-  roads  on  the  material  needs  of  the  others.  I  began  to  wonder  how  I  had  survived  my  own  jungle  childhood.  THE  last  hunter  afield  was  a  gan-  gling,  nearsighted  girl  who  had  found  only  four  eggs.  Finally  admitting  defeat,  she  invited  the  others  back  into  the  hunt  to  help  her  look.  Soon  the  two  missing  eggs  were  discovered  and  matter-of-factly  handed  over  to  the  un-  successful  hunter,  who  just  as  matter-  of-factly  accepted  them.  The  children  then  sat  down  in  a  cir-  cle  with  their  baskets  and  began  what  I  first  assumed  to  be  the  business  of  consumption.  Not  an  egg  was  cracked,  however.  Instead,  a  peculiar  kind  of  manual  activity  began,  with  a  hum  of  animated  conversation.  Puzzled,  I  walked  over  to  the  group.  My  son  was  sitting  next  to  Barbara  Kaleva,  a  stocky  tomboy  with  beach-  blond  hair  and  pale-blue  eyes.  &quot;Stop  it,  Jimmy  Richards!&quot;  she  said  to  a  boy  who  had  reached  over  to  pick  up  one  of  her  eggs.  &quot;I'm  not  through  trad-  ing  with  Jeff  yet.&quot;  When  Jimmy's  hand  retreated,  she  turned  back  to  Jeff  and  said  more  civil-  ly,  &quot;This  is  too  my  pink  one,  Jeff.  There's  where  my  baby  brother  threw  oatmeal  on  it  when  it  was  still  wet.&quot;  With  untypical  meekness,  my  freckle-  faced  heir  yielded  the  egg.  All  around  the  circle,  similar  exchanges  were  taking  place  with  appropriate  comments.  &quot;Who's  got  my  purply  stripy  one  with  the  giraffes  on  it?&quot;  &quot;I've  got  to  trade  your  red-and-green  egg  to  Galen  first,  Suzy,  because  he  has  my  pink  one;  you    can  swap  with  him  later.&quot;  &quot;This  gold  and  silvery  one  was  my  zeatest  until  some  stupid  had  to  go  and  squush  it.&quot;  The  proceedings  were  perfectly  clear.  Every  child  was  bartering  furiously  to  get  back  the  identical  six  eggs  he  had  brought  with  him.  My  invocation  of  the  ancient  scrip-  tures  of  competitive  enterprise  had  made  not  a  single  dent.  Defeated,  I  went  back  into  the  house  and  slumped  down  at  my  desk.  Through  a  window  I  watched  the  swapping  come  to  an  end  and  the  welfare  state's  future  citizens,  those  burgeoning  organization  men  and  women,  start  homeward,  each  carrying  all  his  eggs  in  one  safe  basket.  