 b"A  SUMMER  downpour.  I  am  A  sitting  on  the  back  porch,  watching  the  rain  fall.  At  the  corner  the  rainpipe  is  broken,  halfway  between  the  porch  and  the  ground  six  feet  below,  The  rain  barrel  that  used  to  be  there  is  gone;  the  water,  gushing  out,  makes  a  pool;  on  it  bubbles  form,  then  float  on  little  rivers  across  the  back  yard  toward  the  oak  tree,  beneath  which  my  brother  and  I  have  built  a  town-a  group  of  stones  and  lines  scratched  in  the  earth.  I  watch  as  though  nothing  more  in-  teresting  will  ever  happen.  Events  do  not  interest  me;  only  objects:  marbles,  candy  boxes,  sticks.  My  nature  is  like  that  of  a  sprout  of  the  kudzu  vine  grow-  ing  in  the  vacant  lot.  The  trailing  stems  send  down  roots  and  make  new  plants  that  are  in  no  way  separate  from  the  parent  ones.  Only  somewhere  deep  down  in  me  does  individual  conscious-  ness  stir.  The  rain,  an  object  that  is  also  an  event,  is  one  of  the  things  to  which  it  responds.  No  one  else  is  much  interested  in  these  downpours,  but  my  awareness  is  sharpened  by  them.  The  familiar  yard  becomes  strange,  as  though  reality  may  not  be  as  simple  as  it  seems;  the  barn  and  the  corrugated-tin  garage,  the  trees  along  the  back  street,  the  known  weeds  and  paths  are  suddenly  as  unfamiliar  as  a  scene  of  an  African  jungle  on  the  screen  ofthe  movie  house  at  Tenth  Street.  Over  my  head  the  tin  back-porch  roof  is  thundering  under  the  fall  of  wa-  ter-a  sound  I  am  familiar  with  from  listening  to  the  rain's  comfortable  rum-  ble  as  I  lie  in  bed  at  night  with  my  eyes  closed  waiting  for  sleep.  Even  in  the  dark  this  visible  change  must  occur.  Not  only  in  the  back  yard  but  in  the  whole  neighborhood,  the  whole  world  that  I  know-a  small  fragment  of  Atlanta-  everything  must  change  as  it  is  chang-  ing  now.  The  sidewalk  is  deserted  for  the  length  of  the  double  block  in  which  we  live,  on  Peachtree  Street,  from  Twelfth  to  Fourteenth  Streets.  (Thirteenth  does  not  cross  Peachtree;  it  would  go  through  our  side  yard  ifit  did,  and  take  away  part  of  the  McCrareys'  house  next  door,  just  visible  around  the  corner  of  the  kitchen  in  the  rain.)  Only  automobiles  pass;  and  streetcars,  spraying  water  from  the  inundated  tracks.  The  green  shingle  house  beyond  the  McCrareys'  has  deepened  in  color,  the  way  the  green  leaves  of  the  trees  in  the  backyard  have  deepened;  and,  farther  on,  the  rain-  drops  are  making  bubbles  and  rings  all  over  the  gray  surface  of  the  deserted  Woman's  Club  pool.  Everywhere,  the  impossible  is  hap-  pening:  two  things,  the  rain  and  the  landscape,  are  occupying  the  same  space  at  the  same  time.  By  the  hedge  separating  the  green  shingle  house  from  the  Woman's  Club,  a  walk,  splattered  with  wet  acorns  and  oak  leaves,  runs  all  the  way  back  to  the  pool.  When  the  sun  shines,  the  pool,  painted  white  and  aquamarine,  is  full  of  clear  water  through  which  the  light  falls  all  the  way  to  the  blue  bottom  and  re-  flects  back  onto  the  shouting  and  splash-  ing  bathers  and  the  sunburned  and  peeled  body  of  my  cousin,  the  lifeguard.  A  cement  area  surrounds  the  pool,  enclosed  by  a  wooden  lattice  at  the  back.  Through  this  lattice  one  can  look  down  to  Crescent  Avenue.  And  on  the  side  to-  ward  the  building,  cement  steps  descend  to  the  basement  dressing  rooms,  beneath  the  stage  of  the  Club's  auditorium.  The  basement  floor  is  covered  with  wooden  slats  (like  sections  of  the  lattice  laid  on  its  side)  through  which  water  drips  from  my  bathing  suit  and  wet  feet  as  I  go  down  to  dress  after  swimming.  [REDACTED]  walls  separate  the  dressing  rooms  into  individual  compartments,  but  as  I  dress  I  hear  the  voices  of  the  older  boys  and  girls,  an  echo  ringing  over  their  words,  like  the  echo  of  chlo-  rine  hanging  over  the  odor  of  damp  concrete.  Now  there  are  no  voices  at  all,  and  no  one,  except  the  Negro  janitor  looking  out  the  basement  door  at  the  gray  pool.  Beyond  the  Woman's  Club,  a  group  of  stores  runs  to  the  corner;  there  (for  this  is  as  far  in  this  direction  as  I  ever  go)  my  imagination  turns  down  the  long,  sloping,  tree-shaded  block  toward  Piedmont  Park.  On  this  street  a  boy,  soaked  through  his  shirt  and  trousers  to  the  skin  and  no  longer  having  any  rea-  son  to  hurry,  walks  slowly  homeward.  At  the  park  end,  a  [REDACTED]  soldier,  kneeling  with  lowered  gun,  and  the  Goddess  of  Peace,  extending  an  olive  branch  above  him,  stand  motionless  in  the  rain.  My  mother,  in  a  long  white  dress,  when  she  was  sixteen,  was  present  at  the  ceremony  of  their  dedication,  and    the  sight  of  them  always  reminds  me  of  the  thick  black  pages  of  her  photograph  album.  Beyond  the  Peace  Monument,  the  level  of  the  park  drops  to  a  large,  oval,  and  completely  deserted  playing  field,  from  which  a  number  of  ballplayers  have  fled  a  short  time  since,  and  then  drops  again  to  a  clayey,  shady  stretch  where  there  is  a  bandstand,  not  used  for  music  but  for  picnics,  and  where  little  rivers  of  red  water  are  running  across  the  clay  in  the  same  way  the  little  rivers  of  clear  water  are  running  across  the  back  yard  now.  Here  the  whole  family-aunts,  un-  cles,  cousins-sometimes  gathers  for  pic-  nics:  fried  chicken,  tuna-fish  sandwiches,  potato  salad,  olives,  dill  pickles,  buttered  rolls,  jugs  of  tea,  and  a  watermelon  kept  cold  in  the  tub  with  the  ice  for  the  tea.  Afterward  we  playa  game  of  charades,  divided  into  two  teams,  in  turn  skipping  toward  each  other  and  chanting:  &quot;Rum-tum-tum,  here  we  come.&quot;  &quot;What's  your  trade?&quot;  &quot;Sweet  lemonade.&quot;  &quot;How  do  you  spell  it?  .  ..'  &gt;  Across  the  drive  from  the  picnic  grounds  is  the  bathhouse  and  lunch  stand,  into  which  all  the  players  from  the  game  field  crowd  in  a  rain  like  this,  when  the  shelter  of  the  trees  is  not  enough  to  keep  them  from  getting  soaked.  Beyond  the  bathhouse  is  the  cement  children's  pool,  also  deserted,  and  beyond  the  pool  the  deserted  lake,  with  the  wooden  diving  tower.  The  empty  lifeguard's  boat  is  moored  beside  the  boardwalk  that  separates  the  two.  If  this  were  a  later  year,  the  middle  one  of  my  uncles  would  be  lifeguard  for  Piedmont  Park  and  I  would  have  a  job,  for  a  dollar  a  week,  taking  his  sup-  per  to  him  from  the  house  on  Twelfth  Street,  where  it  is  prepared  by  Mrs.  Akin,  my  mother's  second  cousin,  who  insists  on  my  calling  her  &quot;Aunt  Flor-  ence,&quot;  and  whose  hair  is  dyed  solid  blue  black,  pulled  back  straight  from  her  forehead  and  knotted  in  a  large  bun  on  the  nape  of  her  neck.  The  supper  is  hot,  with  a  napkin  tied  around  it,  holding  in  the  heat  but  letting  out  enough  of  the  odor  for  my  walk-  down  the  steep  hill  of  Twelfth  Street  into  the  park  and  along  the  magnolia-  lined  path  circling  the  fishing  lake-to  be  accompanied  by  the  fragrance  of  cooked  meat,  sweet  potatoes,  biscuits,  greens  boiled  for  hours  with  large  hunks  of  salt  pork.  Through  the  napkin  I  feel  the  hot  circular  base  of  the  plate  on  the  palms  of  my  hands  as  I  carefully  balance  it  upright.  In  my  side  pocket  I  carry  the  thermos  jug  of  hot  coffee.  My  uncle  eats  late,  at  seven-thirty  or  eight  o'clock,  and  " b" I  make  the  trip  after  my  own  supper.  But  even  when  I  return,  after  having  delivered  the  meal  to  him  in  his  row-  boat,  the  light  is  just  be-  ginning  to  fade,  in  the   summer  dusk,  to  a  dark-  ness  equalling  that  of  the  rain  now,  and  un-  der  the  magnolia  trees  around  the  lake  the  first  couples  are  just  begin-  ning  to  arrive,  in  the  swings  that  circle  the  top  of  the  bank,  between  the  walk  and  the  water.  Passing  among  the  heavy  trees  and  shrubs  of  the  park,  I  do  not  think  of  them,  any  more  than  now  I  thix\xc3\xa9  of  the  rain.  I  am  not  separate  enough  from  the  mois-  ture,  the  grass,  and  the  leaves.  At  our  house,  in  the  spring,  I  am  aware  of  the  blossoming  of  the  apple  trees  and  the  pear  tree;  but  in  the  park  I  hardly  distinguish  one  tree  from  another.  I  take  no  interest  in  the  various  blossoms  and  seed  fruits.  As  I  walk  between  them  and  the  gravel  and  water,  I  do  not  think  of  anything.  But  I  am  calmed  by  their  presence  as  I  am  calmed,  to  a  greater  degree,  by  this  precipitation  of  moisture.  I  feel  in  a  quiet  and  latent  form  the  emo-  tions  from  which  thought  springs.  The  summer  my  uncle  is  lifeguard  I  go  away,  as  other  summers,  to  visit  my  father's  sister,  near  [REDACTED];  and  while  I  am  gone  the  job  of  taking  the  hot  supper  from  Mrs.  Akin's  house  to  the  park  falls  to  a  red-headed  cousin  of  mine,  a  year  older  than  I  am.  When  I  return,  my  cousin  does  not  want  to  give  up  the  job.  The  Monday  I  am  to  take  over,  he  arrives  in  the  kitchen  on  Twelfth  Street  at  the  same  time  I  do.  Mrs.  Akin  sends  him  away.  The  job  has  been  promised  to  me,  she  reminds  him;  that  was  the  condition  on  which  he  took  it  while  I  was  away.  And  he  must  bea  gentleman.  I  come  back  from  the  park,  up  the  same  block,  and  return  the  empty  ther-  mos  jug  and  plate.  Between  Mrs..  Akin's  and  home,  above  the  cobblestone  alley  that  runs  from  Twelfth  to  Thir-  teenth  Street  (where  my  cousin  lives)  and  behind  the  [REDACTED]  filling  station,  there  is  a  high  stone  wall  along  the  edge  of  the  sidewalk.  On  top  of  the  wall  the     hedge  still  grows  that  enclosed  the  yard  of  a  house  that  was  torn  down  to  make  room  for  the  filling  station.  As  I  walk  beside  the  wall  there  is  a  rustling  in  the  hedge.   My  cousin  drops  on  me.  I  am  knocked  off  balance;  my  shirt  tears.  He  draws  back  his  fist  to  take  aim  and  mut-  ters  through  clenched  teeth  in  a  tongue-  tied  voice,  &quot;I'll  teath  you  to  take  my  job.&quot;  I  jerk  away.  The  two  of  us  fall  to  the  sidewalk  together,  rolling  in  the  dirt  that  blows  down  from  the  hedge.  My  cousin  is  tougher  than  I  am;  he  knows  how  to  fight.  But  I  make  up  in  resent-  ment  what  I  lack  in  experience.  In  a  few  minutes  I  am  running  up  the  block  and  across  the  street  toward  home,  sticks  and  leaves  in  my  hair,  my  trousers  dirty,  my  shirt  torn,  my  eyes  streaming;  and  in  my  knuckles  almost  as  much  sensa-  tion  of  the  blows  I  have  given  asin  my  scratched  cheek  and  cut  lip  of  the  ones  I  have  received.  BUT  this  day  in  the  rain,  the  park  is  only  the  playing  field  and,  near  Tenth  Street,  a  red  clay  bank  that  I  once  climbed  up  and  was  afraid  to  climb  down.  Farther  along  on  Tenth  Street  is  the  grammar  school  I  attend,  closed  for  the  summer,  the  empty  windows  look-  ing  out  onto  the  wet  gravel  yard,  above  which,  a  few  minutes  ago,  as  above  the  woodpile  in  front  of  me,  flashes  of  light-  ning  turned  the  air  pale  violet,  while  the  odor  of  ozone  descended  from  nowhere.  The  white  cement  pavement  of  this  street  slopes  so  steeply  down  from  the  movie  theatre,  past  the  school  and  all  the  way  to  the  park,  that  the  water  cascades  into  the  sewers  on  the  corners  with  a  sound  as  loud  as  the  roar  above  me  now  on  the  tin  roof.  This  is  the  block  I  take  when  I  walk  home  from  school;  it  leads  me  to  Peachtree  and  the  shopping  dis-  trict,  where  even  such  a  downpour  as  this  does  not  banish  all  the  people  under  awnings  and  in  doorways,  and  where  there  are  two  five-and-ten-cent  stores,  one  directly  acrossthe  street  from  the  other-Kress's  and  Woolworth's.  The  objects  in  these  five-and-ten-  cent  stores  aredisplayed  on  rectangular  counters  completely  surrounding  the  long  narrow  alleys  where,  all  day  long,  the  salesgirls  stand-small  metal  auto-  mobiles  and  tops,  rubber  balls  and  metal  jacks,  boxes  of  crayons  and  water  col-  ors,  coloring  books  and  puzzles  in  which  " b"metal  shots  must  be  rolled  into  the  mid-  dle  of  a  labyrinth.  The  aisles  are  car-  peted  now,  as  they  are  on  rainy  after-  noons  when  school  is  in  session,  with  wet  footprints,  and  give  off  the  odor  of  black  rubber  raincoats.  I  go  into  them  whenever  I  can,  but  on  special  occasions  I  go  into  the  gift  shop,  next  door  to  Woolworth's.  Turn-  ing  to  it  from  the  candy,  goldfish,  and  toys  of  the  five-and-ten-cent  stores  is  turning  from  childhood  to  the  adult  world,  the  world  of  art  and  culture,  and  it  is  there  that  I  go  when  I  want  to  buy  a  present  for  my  mother.  My  love  for  my  mother  is  as  all-em-  bracing  as  the  rain.  Presents  for  her  are  important.  I  have  a  great  longing  not  just  to  tell  her  that  I  love  her  but  to  put  my  love  in  a  physical  object  and  pre-  sent  it  to  her.  Once  in  school  I  made  a  sugar  bow]  out  of  clay.  On  the  bottom  I  scratched  &quot;To  Mother  with  Love  from  Donald.&quot;  I  drew  designs  on  paper  with  colored  crayon,  cut  them  out,  and  pasted  them  on  the  sides  of  the  bowl  after  it  was  hard.  The  clayI  painted  yellow,  and  over  the  paint  and  paper  I  applied  shellac.  The  afternoon  it  was  finished  I  bore  it  home  proudly.  As  I  hurried  up  the  two  granite  steps  to  the  front  porch,  I  fell.  The  bowl,  striking  the  hard  stone,  shattered  into  powdery  fragments,  and  what  a  downpour  there  was  from  my  heart.  The  window  of  the  gift  shop  glows  in  the  rain  as  though  it  were  night.  If  I  were  there  now,  I  would  go  inside,  look  out  at  the  lights  of  the  automobiles  pass-  ing  in  the  wet  street,  and  walk  around,  followed  by  the  middle-aged  woman  clerk.  There  are  candles  and  glass  can-  dlesticks,  placemats  and  finger  bowls,      china  birds  and  animals.  For  Mother's  last  birthday  I  chose  a  single  saltcellar  (a  rabbit,  one  ear  up,  one  ear  down)  and  a  small  leather  engagement  book  with  a  pencil  attached  to  the  side.  The  rain  is  lightening;  it  must  be  lightening,  too,  in  the  block  between  the  shopping  district  and  home,  where  Blanchard's  Funeral  Home  stands  on  the  corner,  an  old  white  clapboard  resi-  dence.  The  light  inside  the  Funeral  Home  is  always  subdued  and  gray,  as  it  is  outside  now.  The  undertaker  has  a  son  a  year  younger  than  I  am.  Once,  I  went  playing  with  him  in  the  top  floor  of  the  house,  where  the  coffins  are  stored.  It  was  a  dark  room;  I  was  afraid  of  the  dark;  and  it  should  have  made  a  strong  impression  on  me.  But  it  did  not.  It  was  not  as  frightening  as  our  attic,  where  the  ghost  Bloody  Bones  lives.  The  caskets  were  as  devoid  of  associa-  tions  as  are  the  ornamental  objects  in  the  gift  shop.  They  might  as  well  have  been  the  gift  shop's  paperweights  of  the  Statue  of  Liberty  and  the  White  House,  which  their  bronze  or  silver  finish  made  them  resemble.  They  were  objects  asso-  ciated  with  the  events  and  dramas  of  life.  These  surround  me  as  thickly  as  the  galloping  red  Indians  surround  the  circle  of  covered  wagons  on  the  screen  ofthe  movie  house  on  Saturdays;  but  for  that  very  reason  my  awareness  shuts  them  out,  banishes  them,  and  clings  to  such  peaceful  objects  as  the  corrugated-  tin  garage  before  me  in  the  rain.  Across  Twelfth  Street  (its  red  brick  pavement  glistening  in  the  rain)  is  Harper's  Colonial  Florist.  A  delivery,  man  hurries  a  spray  of  flowers  out  to  the  truck  at  the  curb.  Mrs.  Harper  is  in-  side,  with  her  young  woman  assistant.  When  I  visit  them  they  allow  me  to  go  into  the  back  room,  behind  the  great  glass-fronted  refrigerator  full  of  flow-  ers,  which  faces  out  into  the  shop,  and  help  them  wire  the  stems  of  galax  leaves  to  the  small  toothpick-like  sticks  by  which  they  are  stuck  into  the  moss-filled  frames  of  the  wreaths  and  sprays.  This  room,  heavy  with  the  moist  perfume  of  flowers  and  leaves,  seems  a  different  world  from  that  of  home,  but  for  me  it  is  somehow  the  same.  The  women  treat  me  as  my  mother  does;  they  demand  no  other  efforts,  no  other  responses,  than  the  ones  she  demands.  And  there  is  a  fascination,  like  the  fascination  in  Moth-  er's  hairpins  and  buttons,  in  these  objects  out  of  which  floral  displays  are  made-  these  wires  and  sticks,  and  the  task  of  putting  them  together.  That  is  so  simple  that  I  can  do  it,  yet  it  is  an  essential  part  of  the  constructing  of  the  ornamental  sprays  and  wreaths,  which  will  be  more  spectacular  but  less  interesting  when  they  are  covered  with  flowers.  Around  the  corner  of  the  corrugated-  tin  garage  now,  as  I  sit  looking  at  it,  Mr.  Peacock  appears.  He  lives  diagonal-  ly  across  the  street,  on  the  corner  of  Thirteenth,  in  an  old  red  brick  resi-  dence  which  is  the  Peacock  School  for  Boys.  Mother  hasgiven  him  permission  to  grow  dahlias  in  our  side  yard,  and  at  odd  hours  every  day  he  can  be  seen  from  the  kitchen  and  dining-room  windows,  plodding  among  the  flowers,  a  thin,  gaunt  man  dressed  in  old  clothes  but  al-  ways  wearing  his  suit  coat,  collar,  and  necktie.  \xc2\xab'There  goes  that  crazy  old  Mr.  Pea-  cock,&quot;  my  mother  or  my  aunt  will  say.  He  is  watering  the  flowers  now,  a  task  which  he  does  only  in  the  rain.  " b"Over  each  of  the  bushes,  planted  in  rows  like  corn,  he  has  inverted  a  cone-  shaped  vegetable  crate  to  protect  the  leaves  and  blossoms.  Around  each  bush  there  is  a  shallow  ditch  to  hold  water,  and  moving  along  now,  in  the  light  rain,  he  is  pouring  buckets  of  water  beneath  certain  ones.  He  has  brought  his  black  umbrella,  but  has  attached  it  to  a  stick  over  a  plant  that  has  no  crate;  he  him-  self,  without  protection  from  the  wet,  walks  along,  leaning  to  one  side  under  the  weight  of  the  bucket  of  water.  Certain  jobs-digging  around  the  plants,  cutting  them,  taking  out  the  tubers  to  store  for  next  year,  and  I  do  not  know  what  else-he  does  by  moon-  light;  and  as  he  passes  the  kitchen  win-  dow  at  my  brother's  and  my  bedtime  and  sees  us  being  given  yeast  cakes  dissolved  in  water  as  a  tonic,  he  scoffs,  &quot;It'd  do  'em  more  good  to  let  'em  come  out  here  with  me  and  open  their  mouths  for  the  moon  to  shine  in!&quot;  And  perhaps  he  does  not  mean  this  wholly  as  an  example  of  pointlessness,  as  the  family  assumes.  But  all  of  his  actions  are  as  meaning-  less  to  us  as  storms  at  sea  reported  in  the  newspapers,  as  the  actions  of  all  people  who  are  not  members  of  the  family,  even  though  they  happen  to  be  in  our  very  yard.  He  leans  over  painfully  to  lift  one  of  the  crates  and  loosen  the  soil  un-  der  it  a  little,  then  he  straightens  up,  only  to  lift  another  and  cut  a  blossom,  which  glows,  lemon-colored  or  red  pur-  ple,  in  the  increasing  moist  light.  But  it  is  the  quality  of  the  light-violet  black  in  some  places,  slate  gray  in  others-  rather  than  his  actions,  that  holds  my  at-  tention.  The  light  continues  to  hold  me  as  the  sun  comes  out  and  illuminates  the  drops  that  fall  separately  from  the  eaves  of  the  back-porch  roof  and  the  leaves  of  the  trees.  The  world  that  has  been  trans-  formed,  held  in  a  spell  under  the  ad-  vance  of  the  rain,  which  enters  without  permission  and  conjures  at  its  own  will,  is  gradually  released.  Windows  bang  up,  voices  call  out.  A  group  of  children  run  from  a  small  frame  'house  into  the  back  street.  Upstairs,  my  aunt  coughs.  In  the  side  yard,  Mr.  Peacock  takes  out  his  handkerchief  and  loudly  blows  his  nose.  I  go  down  the  steps.  At  the  corner  of  the  house,  beneath  the  broken  rain  pipe  and  around  the  open  terra-cotta  joint,  the  water  has  formed  a  white  throat  of  sandwith  a  lavalier  of  pebbles  on  it,  as  though  to  this  inland  world  of  hills  and  houses,  pavements  and  stores,  it  had  brought  and  gently  deposited  a  memory  of  the  shore  of  the  sea. "