 b"NEw  York,  as  we  all  know,  N  abounds  in  rich  cultural  oppor-  tunities  for  him  who  seeks  them  out,  but  sometimes  I  find  that  itis  not  enough  merely  to  seek;  it  is  also  neces-  sary  to  lurk.  'Take  the  occasions  when  that  distinguished,  scholarly  group  of  musicians  known  as  [REDACTED]  ProMusica  performs.  This  assemblage  includes,  in  addition  to  a  motet  choir,  several  instru-  mentalists  who  play  together  as  a  wind  ensemble.  Whenever  that  wind  en-  semble  appears  around  town  on  a  Pro  Musica  bill,  you  will  find  me  in  the  audience  or,  when  I  can  manage  it,  lurking  around  backstage.  What  I  am  doing  back  there  is  trying  to  scrape  up  an  acquaintance  with  the  zinkist  and  the  shawmist.  A  zinkist,  I  should  perhaps  point  out,  is  one  who  plays  a  zink,  or  cornetto,  which  at  the  time  of  the  Renaissance  was  used  as  the  treble  of  brass  ensem-  bles,  even  though  the  cornetto  is  made  entirely  of  wood.  A  shawmist  is  just  another  term  for  a  pommerist.  'The  pommer,  of  course,  is  nothing  less  than  an  ancestor  of  the  oboe.  We  have  all  seen  pommers,  or  shaw  ms,  in  fifteenth,  century  paintings  and  engravings,  and  those  of  you  who  learned  to  recite  Psalm  98  from  the  Book  of  Com-  mon  Prayer  will  recognize  the  phrase  &quot;With  trumpets  also  and  shawms,  O  show  yourselves  joyful  before  the  Lord,  the  King.&quot;  (The  King  James  Bible  says  &quot;cornet&quot;  and  the  Revised  Stand-  ard  Version  says  &quot;horn,&quot;  but  I'll  take  shaw  ms.)  This  winter,  I  heard  Pro  Musica  do  John  Dunstable's  &quot;Magnificat,&quot;  with  a  countertenor,  a  tenor,  the  choir,  and  the  wind  fellows-an  alto  shawm  and  two  tenor  trombones.  'That  Dunstable!  I  hadn't  realized  until  I  glanced  at  my  program  what  a  strong  influence  he'd  had  on  Binchois-and  on  Guillaume  Dufay,  too,  for  that  matter.  The  pro-  gram  began  with  the  &quot;Magnificat&quot;  and  ended  with  Josquin  des  Pr\xc3\xa9s's  &quot;Missa  Pange  Lingua.&quot;  Altogether,  an  unfor-  gettable  evening.  'There  in  the  rich  splendor  of  the  Grace  Rainey  Rogers  Auditorium  at  the  Metropolitan  Museum,  the  music  was  never  better,  and  at  intermission  I  spotted  [REDACTED]  Moore-  head  in  the  audience.  I  was  on  the  edge  of  my  seat  dur-  ing  the  group  consisting  of  Dufay's  &quot;Lamentatio  Sanctae  Matris&quot;  and  &quot;Ec-  clesiae  Constantinopolitanae,&quot;  featuring  countertenor  and  choir,  two  tenor  trom-  bones,  and  tenor  shawm.  Dunstable's  influence  was  pronounced,  particularly  on  the  shawm.  I  did  think  the  &quot;Constantinopolita-  nae&quot;  number  was  tame,  however,  com-  pared  with  the  program's  description  of  its  performance  in  February,  1454.  That  took  place  at  the  Banquet  of  the  Oath  of  the  Pheasant,  in  Lille,  upon  which  occasion  &quot;an  elephant  led  bya  giant  entered  the  hall  bearing  a  little  castle  on  its  back.  In  the  castle  a  woman  robed  in  white  satin  and  wearing  a  black  mantle,  representing  the  Church,  sang  a  lament  on  the  Fall  of  Constantinople  and  besought  Philip  the  Good  and  the  Knights  of  the  Golden  Fleece  to  under-  take  a  crusade  to  liberate  the  city.&quot;  Pro  Musica,  owing  to  budgetary  con-  siderations,  I  guess,  attempted  to  do  the  thing  without  the  elephant,  giant,  castle,  or  woman.  One  just  had  to  use  one's  imagination.  My  only  real  criti-  cism  of  this  performance  was  that,  for  reasons  I  could  not  quite  fathom,  the  countertenor  sang  in  French  and  the  choir  in  Latin,  and,  what  with  my  try-  ing  to  effect  two  translations  at  once  and  being  rusty  in  the  dative  case,  I  couldn't  give  my  full  attention  to  the  shawm.  There  are  usually  distractions  at  Pro  Musica  concerts,  not  the  least  of  which  is,  as  I  have  indicated,  the  printed  pro-  gram.  Whereas  it  is  my  custom  at  most  musical  performances  merely  to  glance  occasionally  at  a  program  note,  I  find  that  during  a  Pro  Musica  evening  I  become  so  absorbed  in  what  I'm  read-  ing  I  miss  part  of  the  music.  'This  hap-  pened  last  year,  when  Pro  Musica  gave  a  concert  at  the  Kaufmann  Auditorium.  That  night,  my  eyes  were  drawn  to  a  note  about  a  song  &quot;of  sadnes  and  pietie,&quot;  called  &quot;Susanna  fair,&quot;  and  before  I  knew  it  I  was  trapped.  The  lyric  began:  Susanna  fair  some  time  assaulted  was  By  two  old  men  desiring  their  delight.  I  was,  of  course,  impelled  to  read  on  to  the  end,  where  Susanna  sings:  And  rather  would  I  die  of  mine  accord  Ten  thousand  times,  than  once  offend  the  Lord.  But  by  the  time  I  had  read  all  the  text,  and  flipped  back  to  see  who  had  written  such  a  thing  ([REDACTED]  di  Las-  so-I  might  have  known  ),  I  discovered  the  song  was  over  and  I  had  missed  it  " b"entirely.  I  was  now  hearing  &quot;a  kind  of  ostinato  variation  in  which  the  popular  tune,  'The  leaves  be  green,&quot;  sometimes  known  as  'Browning  Madame,  is  stub-  bornly  repeated,  accompanied  by  ever-  changing  and  most  intricate  contrapun-  tal  interplay.&quot;  Having  long  been  a  devotee  of  contrapuntal  interplay,  I  folded  the  program  and  listened  from  then  on,  trying  to  concentrate  and  not  think  about  shaw  ms,  zinks,  or  the  mean-  ing  of  ostinato.  A  portative  organ,  a  pear-shaped  re-  bec,  a  ten-stringed  psaltery,  and  a  ver-  tically  played  fipple  flute  are  among  the  other  instruments,  in  addition  to  shawms  and  zinks,  used  by  these  Pro  Musica  art-  ists.  Under  a  special  heading  in  one  of  the  programs,  &quot;Some  Facts  about  the  Instrumental  Consort,&quot;  these  ancient  items  are  described  in  detail,  along  with  the  &quot;silvery-toned  viol  family.&quot;  Pro  Musica's  viol  family  includes  three  sizes-treble,  tenor,  and  bass.  All  have  &quot;six  strings,  frets,  sloping  shoulders,  and  are  played  held  downwards  between  the  legs.&quot;  There  is  also  a  word  or  two  about  the  one-manual  portable  harpsi-  chord,  &quot;which  rests  in  a  specially  devised  travellingcase  when  the  N.  Y.  Pro  Musica  is  on  the  road.&quot;  This  instru-  ment  does  double  duty  in  the  ensem-  ble,  being  used,  believe  it  or  not,  to  play  lute  as  well  as  harpsichord  parts.  Incidentally,  the  program  mentions,  in  connection  with  the  ten-stringed  psal-  tery,  that  &quot;King  David  is  often  depicted  with  a  psaltery  or  harp  in  Medieval  min-  iatures,&quot;  and  this  has  led  me  to  wonder  whether  that  old  glee-club  favorite,  &quot;Little  David,  Play  on  Yo'  Harp&quot;  was  not  perhaps  derived  from  an  earlier  version,  &quot;Little  David,  Play  on  Yo'  Psaltery.&quot;  It  is  easy  tosee  how  the  mind  can  wander  culturally  at  a  ProMusica  concert.  HAVE,  frankly,  come  to  think  of  my  evenings  with  Pro  Musica  as  almost  too  heady;  I  feel  over-entertained  and  over-instructed,  though  I  should  admit  that  I  have  acquired  scraps  of  knowl-  edge  that  might  otherwise  have  eluded  me  for  life.  Most  of  them  have  had  to  do  with  zinks  and  shawms,  and  right  now  I  had  better  explain  my  special  interest  in  Pro  Musica's  zinkist  and  shawmist.  What  I  have  in  mind  is  a  bigparty,  to  which  I  want  to  invite  them.  This  will  be  a  party  for  certain  guests  I  am  occasionally  obliged  to  entertain,  and  for  whom  conversation  is  frequently  strained,  difficult  to  stimulate,  or  com-  pletely  impossible.  When  the  zinkist  and  the  shawmist  arrive,  I  intend  to  have  my  wife  announce  to  me  in  a  pene-  trating  stage  whisper,  ''The  zinkist  and   the  shawmist  are  here  now.  They  had  a  little  troublefinding  a  cab.&quot;  Then  I  will  take  the  boys  around,  one  at  a  time,  and  introduce  them  to  everyone.  &quot;This  one,&quot;  I  will  say,  &quot;is  a  shawmist.&quot;  'Then,  beforethe  effect  has  worn  off,  I'll  in-  troduce  the  other  one:  &quot;His  friend,  here,  is  a  zinkist.&quot;  This,  it  seems  to  me,  is  exactly  the  kind  of  thing  needed  to  get  a  dull  party  rolling.  But,  like  any  electrifying  event,  it  will  be  followed  by  a  period  of  let-  down,  the  brilliance  fading  as  guests  attempt  to  get  back  to  topics  they  can  handle.  I  have  given  the  problem  a  good  deal  of  thought,  and  I  am  prepared.  The  moment  I  spot  interest  beginning  to  flag,  even  slightly,  I  shall  stand  in  the  center  of  the  room,  clap  my  hands  for  attention,  and  loudly  address  the  shawmist.  &quot;Shawmist,&quot;  I  shall  say,  &quot;it  is  getting  late.  It  is  time  now  for  you  to  tell  us  the  one  about  the  sloping-  shouldered  rebec.&quot;  &quot;Viol,  not  rebec,&quot;  he  will  say,  look-  ing  hurt.  &quot;Rebec,  viol-whatever.  You  tell  it  your  way,  fella,&quot;  I'll  say,  thus  establish-  ing  myself  as  a  confused  old  egghead-  self-effacing,  congenial,  willing  to  give  in-the  most  appealing  type  of  host  in  the  world,.  The  crowd  will  be  spell-  bound.  The  trick  at  this  point  is  to  create  just  enough  deliberate  confusion  to  get  the  dull-witted  to  sharpen  up  their  minds  and  have  a  fresh,  almost  Jacques  Barzunish,  intellectual  go  at  life.  A  harmless  rumor  may  often  help,  too,  such  as  &quot;I  suppose  you  know  that  the  Japanese  are  planning  to  flood  the  American  market  with  low-priced  por-  tative  organs,&quot;  and  I  have  some  other  gambits  to  keep  conversation  sparkling  and  minds  jumping.  For  example,  I  plan  to  stroll  among  my  guests,  going  up  to  small  groups  and  saying,  &quot;Get  hold  of  the  zinkist  and  have  him  tell  you  what  happened  backstage  with  the  tuned  hand  bells  that  night  in  Roches-  ter  during  Innsbruck,  Ich  Muss  Dich  Lassen.  &quot;  I  am,  in  fact,  prepared  for  almost  any  turn  the  conversation  may  take  at  my  party,  but  if  all  else  fails  I  can  always  pass  around  pencils  and  paper  and  see  who  can  make  the  most  words  out  of  \xc2\xab&quot;Constantinopolitanae.&quot; "