 b"IN  1947,  when  I  was  working  at  the  I  United  States  Embassy  in  austerity-  proud  postwar  [REDACTED],  I  used  to  go  frequently  to  [REDACTED].  Sometimes  I  went  on  business;  more  often  I  went  on  my  own,  simply  because  [REDACTED]  was  a  mer-  rier  city,  despite  the  effects  of  the  war,  and  the  food,  while  of  course  not  up  to  the  normal  cuisine,  was  vastly  better  than  in  [REDACTED].  For  my  business  trips  I  used  the  expensive  Night  Ferry,  which  catered  mainly  to  financiers  and  cele-  brated  personalities.  I  remember  I  had  the  startling  experience  early  one  morn-  ing  of  passing  a  half-open  train-com-  partment  door  behind  which  Mistin-  guett  was  cowering;  she  had  not  yet  had  a  chance  to  apply  the  makeup,  or  mask,  that  permitted  her  to  seem  age-  less,  and  to  me  she  looked  like  a  with-  ered  witch-a  freckled  escapee  from  Shangri-La.  The  trip  I  recall  best,  though,  was  not  on  the  Night  Ferry  but  on  a  plebeian  daytime  crossing  when  I  encountered  Andr\xc3\xa9  Gide.  It  was  September,  and  I  was  return-  ing  from  a  long  weekend  in  [REDACTED],  hav-  ing  taken  advantage  of  the  Embassy's  Labor  Day  holiday.  At  the  Gare  du  Nord,  I  boarded  my  train  and  found  the  second-class  compartment  in  which  my  seat  was  reserved.  The  compart-  ment  was  empty.  There  were  eight  seats-two  rows  of  four,  facing  each  other.  My  seat,  which  was  marked  with  a  numbered  slip  of  white  paper,  was  the  win-  dow  seat  facing  the  en-  gine.  The  only  other  seat  marked  with  a  reserva-  tion  slip  was  the  one  direct-  ly  opposite  mine.  I  hoped  the  compartment  would  not  be  filled.  It  was  not  a  large  compartment,  and  eight  people  would  be  a  fair-sized  crowd.  After  dis-  posing  of  my  bag  on  the  rack  overhead,  I  settled  down  to  read  a  book  I  had  picked  up  in  [REDACTED].  I  made  a  habit  of  buying  a  book  or  two  during  these  vis-  its;  in  this  instance,  the  book  was,  by  chance,  Gide's  &quot;La  Porte  Etroite,&quot;  in  a  thin  paper-bound  edition.  As  the  pages  were  uncut,  I  took  out  my  nail  file  and  began  cutting  them,  imprecisely,  while  waiting  for  the  train  to  start.  Presently,  the  compartment  was  in-  vaded  by  two  people-a  dark-haired  girl  of  about  fourteen  and  a  man  whom  I  judged  to  be  her  grandfather.  They  were  obviously  neither  English  nor  French,  but  possibly  were  Central  Eu-  ropean-Polish,  perhaps,  or  Rumanian.     They  carried  a  great  deal  of  luggage,  as  well  as  bundles,  which  they  placed  overhead.  Then  they  sat  down,  facing  me,  in  the  two  middle  seats.  Their  manner  was  deferential  and  quiet;  we  exchanged  only  a  single  smile-no  words.  The  train  was  just  a  minute  short  of  departure  time  when  another  person  came  into  the  compartment-a  man  with  a  small  satchel  and  an  armload  of  books.  He  peered  around  for  the  reser-  vation  slips  and  then  sat  down  opposite  me,  putting  the  books  and  the  satchel  beside  him.  It  took  me  only  a  few  sec-  onds  to  recognize  this  new  arrival  as  Gide;  his  characteristic  velvet  cap,  dark-  rimmed  glasses,  long,  lined  face,  and  heavy  eyebrows  were  unmistakable.  The  train  started.  A  sudden  recollection  that  I  hap-  pened  to  be  holding  one  of  Gide's  books  embarrassed  me.  I  had  the  irrational  notion  that  he  might  think  I  was  read-  ing  it  only  as  a  means  of  introducing  myself.  Before  he  had  a  chance  to  notice  it,  I  stowed  it  out  of  sight  behind  me.  We  exchanged  the  kind  of  disinterested  glance  that  fellow-passengers  are  prone  to,  and  looked  away.  The  girl,  who  was  sitting  next  to  Gide,  got  out  a  pad  and  pencil  and  began  to  write.  From  the  di-  rection  in  which  her  pencil  moved,  I  could  make  out  that  she  was  writing  Hebrew.  Having  deprived  my-  self  of  anything  to  read,  I  had  to  sit  watching  either  Gide  or  the  out-  skirts  of  [REDACTED].  Uncom-  fortably,  I  did  a  little  of  both,  while  I  began  to  wonder  whether  it  would  be  possible  for  me  to  engage  Gide  in  con-  versation.  For  some  years  I  had  admired  his  work,  and  I  was  tempted  to  make  this  known  to  him.  I  was  curious  to  find  out  why  he  was  going  to  [REDACTED].  Above  all,  I  was  anxious  to  speak  to  one  of  the  great  writers  of  our  time,  one  whose  long  life  and  diversity  of  experience  made  him  particularly  notable.  P  to  then,  I  would  have  said  that  my  command  of  French  conver-  sation  was  pretty  good.  I  had  never  had  any  difficulty  in  [REDACTED]  making  myself  understood  or  grasping  what  was  said  to  me.  I  even  considered  my  handling  of  nuances  rather  estimable.  But  opening  a  conversation  with  a  mas-  ter  of  the  language  seemed  a  different " b"matter  from  asking  for  a  sunny  single  room  with  bath  at  a  hotel,  or  passing  the  time  of  day  with  a  taxi-driver.,  I  rehearsed  various  openings.  Etes-  vous  Andr\xc3\xa9  Gide?  'Too  bald,  I  thought.  Too  abrupt.  And  what  could  he  an-  swer?  Oui?  Non?  Or  the  equivalent  of  &quot;What's  it  to  you?&quot;  It  struck  me  suddenly  that,  after  all,  it  might  not  be  Gide.  I  had  never  seen  him  before  except  in  photographs.  If  I  spoke  and  turned  out  to  be  wrong,  I  would  be  trapped  for  three  hours  or  so  in  a  situation  of  prickly  embarrassment.  I  had  just  decided  that  it  probably  was  not  Gide,  when  he  picked  up  one  of  the  books  beside  him  and  opened  it  to  the  title  page.  By  shifting  my  position  not  slightly  but  radically,  I  could  read  a  handwritten  inscription:  4  mon  cher  maitre,  Andr\xc3\xa9  Gide.  With  that  unexpected  corroboration,  I  returned  to  my  silent  openings.  Est-ce  que  vous  \xc3\xa9tes  M.  Gide?  was  surely  more  polite  than  my  first  thought.  The  ques-  tion,  put  this  way,  also  seemed  to  me  to  be  more  of  a  question,  leaving  room  for  easeful  doubt.  But  it  was  not  doubt  I  wanted  to  express.  I  wanted  to  show,  in  a  few  words,  admiration,  recogni-  tion,  and  an  eagerness  for  conversation.  The  right  tone  was  essential  from  the  start.  IL  me  parait  que  vous  \xc3\xa9tes  M.  Gide.  Was  that  correct?  Did  &quot;paraitre&quot;  take  the  subjunctive  in  that  construction?  &quot;It  seems  to  me  you  might  be  M.  Gide&quot;  was  surely  a  subjunctive  idea.  The  more  I  thought  of  the  phrase  the  more  un-  certain  I  became.  Also,  I  couldn't  re-  member  the  subjunctive  form  that  might  be  required.  Gide,  in  the  meantime,  quite  un-  aware  of  my  internal  struggle,  took  out  a  penknife  and  cut  a  few  pages  of  the  book  in  his  hand;  then  he  took  up  an-  other  book,  which  bore  a  similar  in-  scription.  I  supposed  that  his  writer  friends,  and  even  writers  who  were  not  his  friends,  made  a  practice  of  sending  him  copies  of  their  new  books.  I  knew  that  French  writers  were  given  to  shar-  ing  their  work  with  one  another,  the  way  housewives  share  recipes.  Je  vwois  que  vous  avez  bequcoup  des  livres  (or  should  it  be  &quot;de  livres&quot;?  ).  An  idiotic  remark.  I  caught  it  just  before  I  spoke  it.  Anyone  could  see  that  he  had  a  lot  of  books.  Besides,  that  would  hardly  have  been  a  way  of  showing  that  I  recognizedhim.  He  might  sim-  ply  think  I  was  asking  him  to  lend  me  one  to  read.  Je  vous  reconnais,  M.  Andr\xc3\xa9  Gide.  No,  that  would  be  the  wrong  tone  en-  tirely.  Even  in  English  it  sounded  rude  " b"and  unfriendly,  like  the  F.  B.I.  man  say-  ing  to  his  suspect,  &quot;I  know  who  you  cre  Dai  Pimpression  que  vous  \xc3\xa9tes  M.  Andr\xc3\xa9  Gide.  I  sat  up  at  that.  I  liked  the  sound  of  it.  With  the  right  smile  to  garnish  it,  I  might  carry  off  that  open-  ing.  Gide  was  now  bored  with  his  books.  He  set  them  aside  and  let  his  eyes  slide  toward  the  pad  on  which  the  girl  was  writing.  I  could  see  that  her  Hebrew  script  interested  him  at  once.  He  watched  her  pencil  more  boldly.  Then  he  spoke,  she  answered  with  a  smile,  and  they  began  a  conversation,  in  French.  Somewhat  unsettled  by  the  ease  with  which  the  girl  had  provoked  his  atten-  tion,  I  continued  to  play  with  my  open-  ing  sentence.  I  liked  the  last  one  I  had  lit  on,  but  felt  it  needed  polishing.  In  English  it  would  not  have  sounded  right:  &quot;I  have  the  impression  that  you  are  Andr\xc3\xa9  Gide.&quot;  But  it  did  have  a  French  sound  to  me,  and,  after  all,  it's  wrong  to  translate.  It's  wrong,  Itold  myself,  to  think  in  English  when  try-  ing  to  speak  French.  If  I  were  mere-  ly  translating,  I  would  obviously  say,  Vous  devez  \xc3\xa9tre  M.  Andr\xc3\xa9  Gide,  and  that  immediately  sounded  to  me  gauche  and  impermissible.  Yet  it  was  thinking  in  English  that  made  me  decide  finally  on  Vat  Pimpres-  ston  fort  que  vous  \xc3\xa9tes  M.  Andr\xc3\xa9  Gide.  That  seemed  to  me  extraordinarily  sub-  tle,  expressing  the  right  degree  of  un-  derstated  certainty,  and  hinting  that  this  strong  impression  I  had  gave  me  enough  pleasure  for  me  to  want  to  tell  him  about  it.  Once  I  had  my  phrase  allset,  I  wait-  ed  for  Gide  to  finish  his  conversation  with  the  girl.  There  seemed  to  be  no  end  to  it.  Now  she  handed  him  the  pad  and  pencil  and  began  showing  him  how  to  write  a  certain  Hebrew  letter.  The  grandfather  leaned  over  her  shoulder  to  say  that  wasn't  right.  I  sat  waiting  for  a  glance,  no  matter  how  fleeting,  from  Gide  in  order  to  intrude  my  phrase  and  steal  his  attention  away  from  the  lesson  in  Hebrew,  which  must  surely  be  too  superficial  to  be  as  engrossing  as  he  appeared  to  find  it.  Indeed,  Gide  did  lose  interest  after  a  while  and  handed  back  the  pencil  and  pad  to  the  girl,  who  placidly  resumed  her  writing.  Little  did  she  know  or  care  about  the  identity  of  the  manwho  had  spoken  to  her,  I  thought.  As  I  pre-  pared  myself  to  utter  the  line  which,  after  all  this  time,  had  begun  to  seem  to  me  less  extraordinary  and  less  cor-  rect,  Gide  abruptly  took  a  little  leather-" b" bound  volume  of  Browning  out  of  his  coat  pocket  and  went  into  the  corridor  to  read  it.  He  stood  there  the  rest  of  the  trip.  I  believe,  from  observing  his  concentration,  that  he  must  have  been  memorizing  one  of  Browning's  longer  poems.  Even  so,  it  didn't  occur  to  me  then  that  I  could  have  approached  him  in  English.  AFTER  Calais,  where  we  all  went  our  separate  ways,  I  never  saw  Gide  again,  either  on  the  boator  on  the  train  to  Victoria  Station.  I  read  later,  in  a  newspaper,  that  he  had  gone  to  Oxford  to  receive  an  honorary  degree  and  had  delivered  a  speech  in  elegant  English.  Though  I  have  often  since  then  re-  gretted  my  tongue-tied  shyness,  per-  haps  it  was  best  that  I  didn't  speak.  For  one  thing,  it  came  to  me  as  anasty  sur-  prise  to  find  in  the  dictionary  that  &quot;im-  pression&quot;  is  a  feminine  noun  and,natu-  rally,  requires  the  adjective  &quot;forte.&quot;  But  even  supposing  that  Gide  had  gener-  ously  overlooked  that  error  and  an-  swered,  what  on  earth  would  I  have  said  next?  It  was  not  the  first  remark,  I  realize  now,  that  would  have  been  the  real  test,  but  the  followup.  admire  wos  livres?  Je  les  ai  tous  lu?  Je  suis  en  train  de  lire  votre  &quot;Porte  Etroite?&quot;  No,  it  all  sounds  appalling.  Weighing  everything  in  the  balance,  I'm  not  sure  thatI  didn't  manage  very  nicely  to  keep  myself  out  of  eau  chaude. "