 b"NOW  that  the  season  of  spring  housecleaning  is  upon  us,  I  have  been  thinking  about  a  neighbor  of  ours,  years  ago,  whom  Ishall  call  Mrs.  Henrietta  Hearn.  It  was  in  the  nineteen-thirties,  in  a  city  in  the  Middle  West,  and  the  Hearns'  house  was  just  down  the  block  from  ours.  I  went  by  it  at  least  four  times  aday,  as  I  was  go-  ing  to  and  from  high  school,  and  I  also  passed  it  whenever  I  was  sent  on  an  errand.  The  neighborhood  was  mid-  Victorian,  and  the  Hearns'  house  was  an  especially  sad,  unpainted,  jigsaw-  scrollwork-decorated  two-story  frame  house  that  had  once  been  white  and  that  appeared  to  be  falling  apart  at  the  cornices.  The  shutters  ofthe  two  upstairs  windows  on  the  front  drooped  like  unhappy  eyelids.  Every  time  I  passed,  I  looked  at  the  house  with  in-  terest,  thinking,  Next  time  it  will  be  nothing  but  a  pile  of  boards  on  the  sidewalk.  The  secretof  its  preservation  lay  in  Mrs.  Hearn.  She  was  blond,  very  large,  fortyish,  and  stately,  and  in  that  period  of  my  life  I  thought  she  was  the  most  colorful  woman  in  the  world.  I  stopped  in  to  see  her  as  often  as  I  could  manage.  There  was  always  at  least  one  canary  singing  in  the  living  room,  and  Mrs.  Hearn  acted  glad  tosee  me.  &quot;Stay  for  the  meal,&quot;  she  would  say.  &quot;Stay  for  the  meal.  You'll  be  no  problem,  and  it  makes  no  matter,  because  we  throw  out  so  much  anyway.&quot;  Shehad  a  husband,  Frank,  and  a  herd  of  children,  all  the  size  of  small  elephants.  Each  of  them  had  two  names,  like  Cora  Sue,  Betty  Jean,  Margaret  Ann,  John  David,  Paul  Hen-  ry,  Walter  Edgar.  Mrs.  Hearn  never  referred  to  or  spoke  to  one  of  them  that  she  did  not  usethe  double  name.  &quot;Run  over  to  the  gro-  cery,  BettyJean,  sweet,  and  see  if  old  Tomp-  kins  has  any  fresh  limas.&quot;  Or  &quot;Walter  Edgar,  honey,  slip  up  to  the  corner  and  see  what's  happened  to  the  evening  paper.  It  should  have  been  here  fifteen  minutes  ago.&quot;  The  house  itself  was  a  jungle.  I  don't  re-  member  a  bed  ever  be-  ing  made  or  a  newspaper  picked  up  offthe  floor.  Nei-  ther  do  I  remember  either  parent  ever  uttering  a  harsh  word.  It  was  per-  petual  harmony  in  disorder.  One  day  when  I  was  there,  two  of  the  elephants,  during  a  quarrel,  broke  a  lamp  table.  From  the  porch  we  heard  the  crash  and  the  sound  of  splintering  wood.  Mrs.  Hearn  called  out,  &quot;Pitch  it  down,  just  pitch  it  down,&quot;  and  somebody  went  into  the  kitchen  and  opened  the  door  to  the  cellar  and  hurled  the  wooden  bits  down  the  basement  steps.  As  we  settled  back,  Mrs.  Hearn  said,  &quot;Oh,  children  are  so  destructive.&quot;  There  was  never  a  time  when  some-  one  in  the  house  wasn't  eating,  and  it  seemed  that  whenever  I  walked  into  the  kitchena  child  was  pulling  open  a  box  of  Shredded  Wheat.  &quot;My  family  are  simply  cranks  about  good  food,&quot;  Mrs.  Hearn  would  say.  &quot;Oranges,  ba-  nanas,  Milky  Ways.  Like  at  noon,  they  ate  twenty-five  peanut-butter  sand-  wiches-over  four  apiece.  I  fix  them  special,  with  a  layer  of  sliced  opera  creams  in  the  center.  Both  for  vitamins  and  quick  energy.  And  hot  chocolate  withgobs  of  whipped  cream.  This  fam-  ily  are  just  cranks  on  good  meats  and  creams.  Especially  my  husband  Frank.  He  can't  stand  to  look  at  the  table  with-  out  there's  fresh  fruit  pies  or  a  coco-  nut  cake  on  it.&quot;  Frank  Hearnwas  a  spare,  sallow  man  who  seemed  always  to  have  on  the   same  striped  shirt,  with  a  dark-blue,  stained  necktie,  and  he  went  to  work  in  a  red  lumberjacket.  I  thinkof  him  as  never  making  a  sound.  My  mother  once  said,  &quot;Mrs.  Hearn,  your  husband  is  the  best-dispositioned  man  I  ever  saw.&quot;  &quot;Not  at  all,  not  at  ell,&quot;  Mrs.  Hearn  said.  &quot;Frank  can  be  a  perfect  beast  when  he  aims  to.&quot;  I  think  of  him  as  getting  thinner  and  thinner.  Our  own  house  seemed  pale  and  un-  interesting  by  comparison.  Mother  warned  me  many  times  that  I  went  to  the  Hearns'  too  often,  but  she  was  as  fond  of  Mrs.  Hearn  as  I  was.  The  only  fault  she  had  to  find  with  Mrs.  Hearn  was  that  she  didn't  do  any  spring  house-  cleaning.  She  would  take  out  two  or  three  small  rugs  and  throw  them  across  the  clothesline  and  pretend  that  she  was  cleaning.  Sunday  afternoon  was  the  time  when  I  loved  to  go  to  the  Hearns'.  Mother  had  taught  us  never  to  go  any-  place  without  taking  a  present,  so  in  winter  I  removed  a  glass  of  strawberry  jam  from  the  pantry  shelf,  and  in  sum-  mer  I  snapped  off  the  heads  of  the  hap-  piest  flowers  in  the  side  yard.  At  the  Hearns'  house,  in  winter,  we  moseyed  around  in  the  vicinity  of  the  living-room  stove  and  listened  to  the  various  canaries  sing  and  to  the  snarl  of  furniture  being  destroyed.  In  fine  weather,  Mrs.  Hearn  was  usually  on  the  front  porch.  The  vista  was  limited  to  a  too)  factory  direct-  ly  opposite,  but  she  and  I  could  have  long  talks  and  look  at  the  smoke-  stacks.  Their  house  was  right  on  the  street,  and  there  was  no  front  lawn-only  a  couple  of  notvery  flourishing,  lanky  spiraca  bushes  be-  side  the  front  steps.  Sometimes  Mr.  Hearn  would  be  watering  them  with  a  tin  sprin-  kling  can,  and  as  I  came  up  and  was  wel-  comed,  Mrs.  Hearn  would  say,  &quot;Frank  does  enjoy  his  garden.  As  long  as  we  don't  have  the  price  of  a  car,  I  don't  know  what  he  would  do  without  his  yard  to  take  care  of.  ...  It's  been  a  year  of  dis-  aster,  perfect  disaster,&quot;  she  went  on.  &quot;I  see  by  the  paper  that  another  coal  mine  caved  in  over  near  Chillicothe,  Trou,  " b"ble,  trouble.  Margaret  Ann,  as  you  come  out,  would  you  fetch  memy  shawl?  It  was  a  sad  week.  Sad,  sad.  Yester-  day,  at  eleven,  they  laid  away  old  Bessie  Mc-  Mahon.  I  will  say  they  had  her  fixed  up  fine.  The  flowers-mercy,  I  wish  you  could  have  seen  those  flowers.  That  old  fat  Heines,  punk  florist  that  he  is,  had  the  place  looking  like  a  wedding.  As  I  said  to  Frank,  after  I  got  back,  I  could  have  danced  in  there.  But  the  McMa-  hons  always  do  every-  thing  so  nice.&quot;  On  occasion,  when  I  offered  my  present,  I  would  tell  Mrs.  Hearn  how  pretty  she  looked.  &quot;'The  face  is  like  an  old  quince,&quot;  she  would  say,  &quot;but  when  I  was  young,  they  all  said  I  was  win-  some.  Well,  I've  never  gone  in  much  for  fa-  cials.  Just  an  occasional  marcel;  it  picks  a  girl  up.  My  hair  was  straight  as  a  string  till  Mother  took  a  poker  to  it.  Frank's  never  cranky  about  me.  He's  not  par-  ticular.  Just  likes  to  see  me  well  groomed.  Walter  Edgar,  scout  around  out  there  in  the  kitchen  and  see  if  there's  an  old  sweet  roll  from  break-  fast,  or  maybe  there's  a  peppermint  left  in  the  candy  dish.&quot;  Then  she  leaned  closer  to  me  and  said  confidentially,  &quot;I  had  a  coat  set  aside  yesterday  at  J.  C.  Penney's.  Noth-  ing  elaborate,  a  pale  blue,  but  it'll  be  mighty  comfy  when  fall  comes.  You  have  to  look  ahead-which  is  why  I  must  get  back  to  the  laundry.&quot;  She  was  referring  not  to  her  own  washing  and  ironing  but  to  the  Royal  Hand  Laun-  dry,  where  she  occasionally  did  part-  time  work.  &quot;Frank  doesn't  seem  to  bring  in  enough.  I  don't  mean  to  com-  plain.  Frank's  a  good  provider,  but  all  this  family!  I've  got  to  get  back  over  there.  It's  just  a  widow's  mite,  but  every  bit  helps  to  keep  the  wolf  from  the  door.&quot;  My  thoughts,  temporarily  saddened,  were  interrupted  by  a  loud  crash  from  the  confines  of  the  house.  &quot;Pitch  it  down,&quot;  Mrs.  Hearn  sang  out,  &quot;Paul  Henry,  lamb,  just  pitch  it  down.&quot;  Our  family  never  ate  in  restaurants,  and  I  loved  to  be  at  the  Hearns'  at  sup-  pertime  onSunday  nights,  because  Mrs.  Hearn  sent  out  for  food.  As  the  herd  began  to  whimper  and  grow  restless,  she  would  say,  &quot;John  David,  steal  over  to  the  Top  Hat  and  pick  up  some  barbe-  cues.  .  ..  Oh,  I  don't  know.  Some  of  the  beef,  a  few  of  the  pork.  And  tell  that  old  Alonzo  not  to  be  niggardly  with  the  piccalilli.  Say  that  last  time  I  thought  they  were  tasteless.  Might  as  well  have  chewed  on  a  bunch  of  old  horse  meat.&quot;  Or  she  would  say,  &quot;It's  funny,  but  to-  night  I  only  feel  like  candies.  Cora  Sue,  it's  past  five,  but  see  if  the  drug-  store's  still  open  and  if  old  Judkins  has  a  large  Whitman's  Sampler  left.  Tell  him  to  charge  it,  but  if  Judkins  is  there,  you'd  better  go  somewheres  else.  And  don't  get  that  cheap  kind  again  you  got  a  week  ago,  with  all  those  squashy  cher-  ries.  I  can't  bear  to  bite  in  and  have  that  juice  ooze  all  over  my  chin.&quot;  Every  so  often,  the  Hearns'  telephone  would  be  cut  off  because  the  bill  had  not  been  paid,  and  Mrs.  Hearn  would  come  over  and  ask  to  use  ours.  &quot;Madge,  it's  Henny,&quot;  she  would  begin.  &quot;Are  you  all    right,  dear?  I'm  in  at  neighbors'.  Our  service  is  gone  again.  And  the  lights....  Oh,  Frank's  been  up  to  his  old  mischief,  putting  pennies  in  the  light  meter,  and  you  know  the  light  company.  I  look  for  him  to  be  temporarilyimprisoned.  Do  you  know,  we  haven't  had  lights  in  eight  days?  I  got  in  a  lot  of  candles,  but  it's  so  hard  to  run  a  home  without  elec-  tricity.&quot;  She  would  snort  and  laugh.  &quot;Guess  the  plumbing  will  probably  go  next.  It's  all  in  a  day's  work,  as  the  man  says.  Is  everybody  O.K.?  .  .  .  Well,  it  was  apparent  the  last  time  we  saw  you  that  Arthur  wasn't  feeling  so  good.  If  he  can  just  have  it  out,  whatever  it  is,  I'm  sure  he'll  be  the  better  for  it.  The  winter's  taken  a  toll  on  all  of  us,  Madge.  .  ..&quot;  Then  she  would  call  the  laundry.  &quot;Is  this  the  Royal?  ...  Well,  it's  Mrs.  Hearn.  I  was  wondering  if  you  could  use  an  extra  hand  any  time  this  week?  ...  Oh,  most  any  afternoon  would  do,  I  guess.  Things  are  a  little  slow  at  the  house,  and  T'd  like  to  pick  up  some  pocket  change....  O.K.,  on  Wednesday  then,  and  if  Mabel  Sym-     " b"onds  is  right  there  at  the  mangle  by  the  window,  would  you  say  'hello'  for  me?&quot;  As  she  got  up  from  the  phone,  she  would  say,  &quot;'Things  are  set  up  over  there  at  the  Royal.  They  need  me,and  I'm  glad  to  oblige.  It  isn't  just  for  the  money-heavens,  that's  only  a  little  something  for  the  purse.  I  miss  the  social  contacts,  all  the  chatter,  and  it  gets  me  out  of  that  house  for  a  few  hours  a  day.  Those  kiddies  last  night  were  like  a  zoo.&quot;  One  of  the  saddest  events  I  ever  wit-  nessed  was  the  day  that  a  truck  from  a  department  store  backed  up  in  front  of  the  Hearns'  house  and  took  away  all  the  living-room  and  dining-room  furniture.  It  was  in  the  fall,  and  we  were  working  in  the  yard,  raking  leaves.  As  the  men  began  to  pile  the  furniture  in  the  truck,  Mrs.  Hearn  walked  out  to  the  curb,  crying  and  wiping  her  eyes,  and  the  children  after  her.  Mother  said,  &quot;It's  just  too  terrible  to  watch,&quot;  and  we  went  indoors.  Forty-five  minutes  later,  Mrs.  Hearn  came  to  the  kitchen  door  and  said,  &quot;I  wonder  if  I  could  use  the  phone  a  min-  ute?  I've  got  to  make  some  arrange-  ments.&quot;  Mother  asked  if  she  would  like  some  coffee.  &quot;No,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;neither  Frank  orIuse  drugs.  I  suppose  you  saw  what  occurred  this  morning.  Rogues,  rogues-those  department  stores  these  days  are  nothing  but  rogues!  The  kids  felt  bad  to  see  all  that  stuff  go,  because  they'd  helped  me  pick  it  out,  but  I  don't  know.  I  never  thought  the  wine-  colored  velours  was  right  for  us.  After  you've  had  it  a  while,  it  always  seems  to  look  musty.  And  I  think  Chinese  red  would  be  too  bright.  I  think  I'll  do  it  this  time  in  peach  or  lemon.  Oh,  house-  keeping  is  so  discouraging.  You  never  get  caught  up.  There's  a  sale  on  today  at  Dale's,  and  if  I  can  reach  a  good  clerk,  we  can  have  new  things  out  here  by  nightfall.  Dale's  usually  wants  a  down  payment,  but  I  have  a  good  rec-  ord  there,  and  know  I  can  work  it  out.  This  morning  made  me  peevish.  Those  rogues.  I'd  like  to  see  a  lawyer  and  write  them  a  stiff  letter.&quot;  LTHOUGH  the  Hearns'  living  room  was  soon  stuffed  with  yel-  low  furniture,  the  dining  room  stood  empty  until  the  following  summer.  One  night,  when  Mother  and  I  were  walk-  ing  by,  we  saw,  through  the  curtainless  bay  window,  Mrs.  Hearn  on  a  step-  ladder,  papering  the  dining-room  ceil-  ing.  Mother  sent  me  back  to  the  cor-  ner  to  get  a  pint  of  maple-nut  ice  cream  for  her,  and  then  we  stopped  in  and   delivered  it,  and  she  was  delighted.  &quot;On  this  hot  night,  you  couldn't  have  pleased  me  more!&quot;  she  said.  &quot;I  was  just  fixing  to  quit.&quot;  On  the  side  walls  she  had  pasted  up  four  rolls  of  paper,  each  of  a  different  design,  but  all  of  them  fish  and  water  and  sea  shells.  &quot;I'm  testing  several  things,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;because  I  hope  to  begetting  a  new  suite  about  the     end  of  the  month.  I'm  not  completely  satisfied,  but  old  Dale  has  been  good  to  us,  and  I  like  to  do  business  with  him.  He  understands  us,  and  his  heart's  in  the  right  place.&quot;  We  went  out  to  the  kitchen  so  that  she  could  sit  down  while  she  ate  the  ice  cream,  and  I  told  her  how  fine  I  thought  the  room  would  look,  and  said  I  imagined  that  they  had  missed  living  without  a  dining-room  table.  &quot;No,  no,  you  get  used  to  what  you've  got.  Little  things  don't  much  matter.  As  Father  O'Brian,  who  I  reverence,  said  last  week,  as  you  get  older  you  look  more  toward  the  eternals.  I'm  not  at  all  satis-  fied  with  the  way  that  dining  room  is  turning  out.  I've  always  seen  that  " b"room  in  Roman  style-long  banquet  tables,  and  alabaster  lamps.  But  Frank  put  his  foot  down.  Thought  it  would  look  foolish.  Very  firm.  Oh,  so  firm.  It's  going  to  be  the  heavy  oak  again,  with  the  tapestried  chairs.  And  scarlet  tassels  at  each  corner  of  the  seat.  I  just  hope  the  children  will  feel  responsible  enough  to  watch  out  for  it  this  time.  And  when  I  get  that  wall  covered  with  my  mother's  hand-painted  china,  we  really  ought  to  have  something.&quot;.  We  said  good  night  and  started  to  leave.  &quot;'Tomor-  row,  Frank  is  going  to  have  a  go  at  that  front  bedroom,&quot;  she  said.  &quot;Two  months  ago,  half  the  ceiling  dropped  off  in  the  night,  and  with  three  of  the  little  ones  sleeping  in  there,  I  don't  think  it's  safe.  Not  safe  at  all.&quot;  She  gave  a  long  sigh  and  said,  &quot;Is  the  game  worth  the  candle?&quot;  Mother  said,  &quot;I  want  to  tell  you,  Mrs.  Hearn,  I  think  your  children  have  the  best  manners  in  the  neighborhood.  I  never  meet  one  of  your  boys  on  the  street  that  he  doesn't  tip  his  cap  to  me,  and  call  me  by  name,  and  when  your  daughters  come  to  the  door,  they  always  curtsy.&quot;  &quot;That's  nice  to  hear,&quot;  Mrs.  Hearn  said.  &quot;That's  very  nice  to  hear.  They're  good  kids,  and,  like  you  know,  we  haven't  had  so  much.  But  if  you  ever  hear  one  of  them  say  an  unkind  word,  or  do  an  impolite  deed,  you  can  rest  assured  they  never  learned  it  from  me  or  Frank.  They  had  to  go  outside  the  home  to  pick  it  up.&quot;  WHEN  the  war  came,  my  parents  moved,  first  to  a  distant  part  of  the  city  and  later  to  another  state.  I  was  in  the  Air  Force  and,  like  most  soldiers,  wrote  letters  to  everybody  I  could  think  of.I  sent  Mrs.  Hearn  cards  at  Christ-  mas,  and  she  replied,  in  her  time,  on  lined  tablet  paper,  with  a  wet,  licked  pencil.  Once  she  wrote,  &quot;Here  is  old  Tillie  the  Toiler,  but  now  she's  Rosie  the  Riveter.  I  and  Frank  are  both  at  the  aircraft  factory,  on  the  midnight  shift.  The  family's  fine,  all  as  busy  as  bees.  Paul  Henry  is  in  [REDACTED];  Mar-  garet  Ann  is  a  hostess  on  a  plane.  The  others,  I'm  never  real  sure  where  they    are.  Frank's  mother  is  with  us  for  the  winter,  and  Frank  isn't  a  bit  well.  One  doctor  says  it's  kidneys,  another  says  it's  his  liver.  He  looks  peaked,  and  I  just  wish  he  could  have  it  out.  I  think  when  summer  comes  and  he  can  get  at  his  garden,  it'll  work  wonders,  But  none  ofus  are  as  young  as  we  used  to  be  (Ha  ha  ).  I  happened  to  see  your  mother  and  dad  a  while  back.  She  looks  older.  She  tries  to  do  too  much.  Your  dad  seemed  fine,  strong  as  an  ox,  but  he  always  did  know  how  to  save  himself.  Come  see  us  when  you're  this  way,  because  we're  lonely.  (Mrs.)  Henrietta  Hearn.&quot;  N  so  many  acquaintances  do,  Mrs.  Hearn  just  passed  out  of  our  lives.  Fitteen  years  later,  I  have  no  idea  where  she  is,  or  her  family.  Only  a  few  weeks  ago  I  happened  to  be  in  that  city  again,  and,  excited,  drove  toward  our  old  neighborhood.  When  I  rounded  the  corner,  I  couldn't  believe  my  eyes.  Where  the  tool  factory  had  been,  there  was  now  a  huge  new  grammar  school,  and  the  Hearns'  house,  and  ours,  and  all  the  other  familiar  places  were  gone.  In-  stead,  it  was  a  playground,  filled  with  swings  and  teeter-totters  and  laughing  children. "