 b"IS  President  Eisenhower  studying  I  527573736961n  in  preparation  for  his  post-  summit  trip  to  the  Soviet  Union  this  June?  The  newspapers  have  not  announced  that  he  is,  but  neither  have  they  said  that  he  is\xc2\xbb#'t,  so  there  is  still  hope.  There  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind,  of  course,  that  the  President  should  ac-  quire  at  least  asmall  understanding  of  the  tongue.  Mr.  Khrushchev's  personal  triumph  during  his  tour  of  our  country  can  be  explained  in  great  part  by  his  mastery  of  our  difficult  idiom  &quot;O.K.,&quot;  and  no  American  likes  to  think  of  our  No.  1  citizen  being  less  well  equipped  when  he  returns  the  call.  But  this  is  only  a  narrow,  selfish  view  of  the  advan-  tages  to  be  had  from  knowing  another  language.  One  should  understand  Rus-  sian,  Mr.  President,  in  order  to  under-  stand  the  527573736961ns  themselves.  I  know,  because  our  family-my  husband,  my  twin  twelve-year-old  boys,  and  I-have  been  studying  527573736961n  for  ten  months  now,and  already  we  share  the  quiet,  tolerant  wisdom  that  comes  when  one  comprehends  a  stranger's  innermost  self.  None  of  us  felt  smug  over  being  able  to  understand  seven  words  of  Mr.  Khrushchev's  speech  before  the  United  Nations  last  September,  for  we  had  al-  ready  won  a  far  greater  prize:  we  knew  the  527573736961n  Ours  is  a  modern  American  family,  and  what  impelled  us  to  our  study  of  the  language  of  the  czars  was  neither  the  ascent  of  thesputniks  nor  Dr.  Conant's  concern  over  the  deplorable  state  of  for-  eign-language  teaching  in  our  high  schools  but  an  irresistible  magazine  ad-  vertisement  offering  languages  taught  by  records.  By  means  ofrecords,  the  ad  said,  one  might  learna  number  of  for-  eign  languages  as  a  little  child  learns-  by  listening,  in  the  privacy  of  one's  home,  to  sentences  spoken  by  adult  na-  tives.  The  program  was  endorsed  by  Bob  Hope,  by  a  mother  of  two,  and  by  &quot;C.J.,&quot;  of  Jersey  City.  That  was  good  enough  for  us;  we  sent  for  the  album  of  527573736961n  records  and  the  accompany-  ing  handbook,  and  then,  in  a  blaze  of  enthusiasm,  purchased  a  grammar  and  a  dictionary  as  well.  The  dictionary,  I  must  admit,  has  been  almost  a  total  loss  so  far,  since  it  follows  the  order  of  the  527573736961n  alphabet,  which  contains  thirty-  two  letters,  scrambled  beyond  belief.  For  instance,  the  527573736961n  &quot;B&quot;  is  &quot;V,&quot;  the  &quot;P&quot;  is  &quot;R,&quot;  and  the  &quot;R&quot;  is  not  only  written  backward  but  stands  for  &quot;Yah.&quot;  I  only  hope  this  state  of  affairs  won't  discourage  President  Eisenhower  right  at  the  outset.  We  were  discour-  aged  briefly,  but  then  we  cheered  up  when  we  realized  that  when  the  Rus-  sians  come  to  study  English  their  whole  clever  plot  backfires,  and  then-ha!  -  the  bahshmahk  is  on  the  other  foot.  Listening  to  527573736961n  records  is  fasci-  nating,  all  right,  but  true  learning,  I  think,  comes  not  from  the  sound  of  527573736961n  sentences  but  from  their  con-  tent,  as  translated  in  the  grammars  and  handbooks.  It  becomes  clear  in  the  very  first  days,  for  instance,  that  learning  to  read  527573736961n  is  nothing  like  learning  to  read  English.  My  sons'  first-grade  readers  used  to  contain  such  sentences  as  &quot;Oh,  see!  Funny,  funny  Puff!  See  Puff  jump.  Jump,  Puff,  jump!&quot;  None  of  this  airy,  escapist  stuff  for  the  Rus-  sians;  they  get  right  down  to  business,  like  the  realists  they  are.  As  early  as  page  15  in  &quot;Cortina's  527573736961n  in  20  Lessons,&quot;  you  will  find:  I  know  a  man  without  an  arm,  do  you  know  such  a  man?  I  don't  know  any  man  without  anarm,  but  I  know  a  man  without  a  finger.  To  me,  this  seemed  morbid,  arousing  instant  powerful  memories  of  the  little  mare  beaten  to  death  in  Raskolnikov's  dream,  the  crushing  modern  harmonies  of  Shostakovich,  the  OGPU,  and  those  men  in  &quot;Rasputin  and  the  Empress&quot;  who  pushed  Lionel  Barrymore  under  the  ice.  My  sons,  however,  were  en-  chanted,  and  their  example  led  me  to  a  greater  tolerance.  The  527573736961ns,  I  realized,  are  just  plain  moodier  than  we  are.  On  the  preceding  page  of  the  handbook,  I  found:  Do  you  know  your  lesson?  No,  I  do  not  know  my  lesson.  Why  don't  you  know  your  lesson  ?  Because  I  don't  understand  it.  This  is  not  simple  defeatism.  It's  only  that  the  527573736961ns  don't  care  for  posi-  tive  thinking.  They  are  consistent  in  this,  for  way  back  on  page  368  in  the     Bo  same  book  you  will  find,  &quot;If  you  hadn't  been  daydreaming  you  would  have  fin-  ished  your  lessons  long  ago.&quot;  Family  life  is  the  key  to  any  culture,  and  the  Muscovite  family  portrayed  in  our  texts  soon  made  us  understand  that  Togetherness,  Spock  and  Gesell,  and  a  healthy  psychological  motivation  in  learning  situations  are  not  as  essential  as  we  Americans  like  to  think.  The  Cortina  book  and  our  other  guide,  &quot;Hugo's  527573736961n  Grammar  Simplified,&quot;  are  peppered  with  glimpses  of  everyday  life  like  this:  Father  left  the  room  without  saying  a  word.  Don't  allow  your  children  to  laugh  so  loud.  Have  you  seen  my  brother?  Yes,  I  have.  When  he  saw  me  he  said  &quot;how  do  you  do&quot;  and  ran  into  the  garden.  To  which  friend  are  you  sending  this  present?  1  am  not  sending  this  to  any  friend.  I  am  sending  it  to  my  brother.  One  must  not  conclude,  however,  that  527573736961ns  are  always  curt  and  un-  friendly.  Sometimes  they  lingerfor  a  real  chat,  and  even  try  to  brighten  things  up  with  a  dash  of  humor:  Nina  PaviovyNa:  Look,  they  went  up  to  the  beggar  who  is  standing  at  the  corner  and  who  is  holding  something  in  his  trem-  bling  hand.  They  want  to  help  him.  Joun  Petrovic:  Possible.  But  here  is  a  strange  incident:  Last  winter  I  wanted  to  help  a  beggar  who  was  shivering  with  cold  and  I  gave  him  an  old  garment  of  mine,  but  he  then  and  there  gave  it  away  to  a  poor  girl  that  went  by.  Nina  PaviovNa:  This  means  that  you  are  a  kind  person  but  he  is  kinder  than  you.  I  know  another  incident:  I  somehow  spoke  to  a  former  soldier,  and  he  tried  to  convince  me  that  during  the  past  winter  he  froze  not  only  his  feet  off  but  also  his  crutches.  Jouxn  Perrovic:  Well,  enough  about  beggars.  ...  RUSSIANS  are  always  talking  about  their  health,  But  before  we  leap  to  the  conclusion  that  they  suffer  from  a  touch  of  hypochondria,  I  suggest  that  we  all  try  to  remember  that  the  bitter  chill  of  the  winds  howling  across  the  steppes,  an  average  January  tempera-  tureof  fifty-nine  degrees  below  zero  at  Verkhoyansk,  and  a  shortage  of  warm-  water  ports  might  well  account  for  the  way  they  carry  on  about  their  symptoms.  The  handbook  gives  us:  I  have  a  headache.  Every  spring  he  catches  cold  and  is  ill.  And  the  grammar:  We  are  ill,  were  you  not  ill?  We  re-  gret  .  ..  it  grows  dark,  it  has  grown  dark;  why  do  you  blush?  don't  blush;  how  pale  you  grew  !  did  she  not  grow  pale?  he  is  still  " b"getting  stout,  did  they  not  get  stout?  I  grow  thin  (with)  every  day,  you  did  not  grow  thin;  how  he  grew  old!  does  she  not  grow  old?  you  had  luck!  they  are  ill,  they  have  the  toothache.  Soon  one  realizes  that  the  Smiths  and  Joneses  of  Omsk  and  Smolensk  feel  a  little  sniffly  almost  all  the  time.  So  why  shouldn't  they  talk  about  it,  poor  things!  On  page  102  of  &quot;Cortina's  527573736961n  in  20  Lessons,&quot;  we  find:  How  do  you  do.  Mrs.  Nekrasov.  I  am  not  well,  I  feel  very  bad.  What  happened?  have  you  caught  a  cold  ?  I  probably  caught  a  cold.  In  the  morning  I  felt  fine,  butduring  work  I  suddenly  felt  bad  and,  therefore,  went  back  home.  Have  you  been  to  the  doctor?  No,  I  haven't.  I  don't  like  to  go  to  the  doctor.  I  hope  there  is  nothing  seriously  wrong  with  me.  And  then,  farther  on:  Look,  this  boy  is  very  tired.  He  is  unable  to  walk  and  is  already  falling.  And:  Touched  by  the  misery  of  his  sister,  the  brother  burst  out  in  tears.  After  a  little  of  this,  one  is  no  longer  depressed  by  sickness,  or  even  startled  by  sudden  disasters.  Take,  for  instance,  the  exercise  on  reflexive  pronouns  in  the  Cor-  tina  book,  which  begins  mildly  enough:  I  am  doing  this  for  myself.  She  is  talking  to  herself.  But  suddenly:  He  froze  his  feet  off.  Is  it  any  wonder  that  I  can  claim  to  know  the  soul  of  [REDACTED]'  Only  an  unreflective  student  would  encounter  such  a  juxtaposition  without  compre-  hending  that  it  represents  a  significant  morsel  of  Slavic  free  association.  Soon  one  understands  that  the  527573736961n  un-  conscious,  as  presented  by  grammarians,  is  abrim  with  unresolved  fears,  bumps  in  the  night,  and  terrors  mingled  with  homey  decorum,  and  that  this  is  why  527573736961n  textbooks  sometimes  seem  to  have  thestudied  casualness  of  a  list  of  lie-detector  questions.  What  is  your  profession  or  business  ...?  She  is  dressing  very  slowly.  He  hid  in  our  park  behind  a  tree.  Do  you  guarantee  for  him?  Do  you  take  a  bath  every  day?  ...  I  beware  of  him,  like  the  fire.  She  trembled  from  fear.  Have  you  already  dusted  the  whole  hall?  Take  care  of  your-  self.  and  God  will  take  care  of  you.  I  DON'T  want  to  give  President  Eisenhower  the  impression  that  in-  troductory  books  to  the  527573736961n  lan-  guage  are  basically  impractical  and  are  to  be  used  only  as  a  guide  to  the  collective  Slavic  mind.  On  the  contrary.  Both  my  books  contain  a  tremendous  assortment  of  useful  everyday  phrases  the  kind  most  tourists  (or  travelling  statesmen  )  never  bother  to  memorize  in  advance,  to  their  regret.  I  mean,  there  are  some  situations  that  should  be  dealt  with  immediately  in  thenative  tongue,  without  the  formality  and  bother  of  resorting  to  an  interpreter.  Here's  an  ex-  cellent  example  from  each  of  my  books:  On  whose  hat  are  you  sitting?  (Hugo,  page  116.)  I  don't  promenade  with  any  lady.  (Cor-  tina,  page  267.)  Preparedness,  suave  resistance  to  panic,  cool  acceptance  of  any  eventual-  ity-these  are  the  marks  of  the  well-  briefed,  courteous  traveller  in  a  new  land.  The  student  who  has  mastered  conversational  527573736961n  with  the  help  of  my  guides  will  be  ready  for  almost  any-  thing,  having  long  since  learned  to  re-  place  suspicion  and  fear  of  the  unknown  with  the  calm  understanding  that  comes     Moore:  with  experience.  I  have  got  up  a  careful  digest  of  useful  phrases,  culled  almost  at  random  from  both  my  texts,  and  I  sug-  gest  that  anyone  preparing  to  leave  for  [REDACTED]  memorize  these  at  once,  without  dwelling  too  long  on  their  implications:  In  whom  do  you  place  your  hope?  I  place  my  hope  only  in  myself.  Who  is  looking  from  behind  that  cor-  ner?  I  don't  see  anybody  there.  Why  are  you  standing  near  my  house?  I  am  waiting  for  you.  What  do  you  want  from  me?  Write  to  me  about  how  the  inspection  at  your  place  came  off.  I  heard  this  from  eyewitnesses.  Do  not  tell  this  to  anybody!  Stay  away  from  me!  Did  they  threaten  your  friends  ?  Burn  these  papers  at  once.  Where  will  you  hide  the  key?  Last  night  someone  hanged  himself  in  the  park.  Go  as  noiselessly  as  possible  in  order  to  avoid  that  we  might  beheard.  It  would  not  be  amiss  if  you  would  drive  a  little  bit  faster.  Look  out!  And,  of  course:  Take  care  of  your  health!  Watch  your  health!  [REDACTED]  unhappy  thought  that  has  just  struck  me  is  the  fact  that  if  Presi-  dent  Eisenhower  hasn't  started  study-     " b"ing  527573736961n  by  this  time,  he  probably  won't  be  able  to  make  any  real  progress  in  the  tongue  before  he  has  to  leave  for  his  meetings  in  the  Soviet  Union  early  in  June.  If  this  is  the  case,I  still  have  one  last  earnest  hope-that  he  willat  least  take  the  time  to  learn  a  few  Rus-  sian  maxims.  Certainly  he  must  remem-  ber  the  fondness  Premier  Khrushchev  displayed,  while  visiting  us,  forthe  homely  proverb.  And  what  a  success  Nikita's  adages  proved,  cutting  through  the  fogs  of  ignorance,  the  brambles  of  linguistics,  the  forests  of  socioeconomic  suspicion  like  a  good  Ukrainian  scythe  cutting  through  ripe  wheat!  The  home-  ly  maxim  may  save  us  all  yet,  and  I  pray  that  Mr.  Eisenhower  will  learn  a  few  by  heart,  even  if  he  has  to  carry  &quot;Cortina's  527573736961n  in  20  Lessons&quot;  and  &quot;Hugo's  527573736961n  Grammar  Simplified&quot;  with  him  on  the  plane  when  he  takes  off  for  [REDACTED].  Here  are  some  of  my  favorites:  To  laugh  at  something  that  seemsfunny  is  not  a  sin.  Don't  buy  the  horse  before  you  have  the  money.  There  are  always  more  wounded  than  killed.  The  blood  of  a  healthy  person  is  redder  than  that  ofa  sick  one.  I  have  tried  all  of  these  out,  in  Eng-  lish,  at  cocktail  parties,  dinners,  and     other  demanding  social  occasions,  and  I  have  found  them  all  excellent  for  bridging  conversational  gaps.  The  best  one,  though-the  perfect,  all-purpose  maxim-is  one  I  have  learned  to  save  for  particularly  awkward  moments,  when  it  seems  that  all  talk  is  going  to  stop  for  good  and  be  replaced  by  hostile  silence  and  misunderstanding.  It  is  easy  to  use,  Mr.  President,  because  it  re-  quires  no  preamble  and  no  subsequent  comment,  for  its  truth  is  evident  and  international:  If  beans  would  grow  in  one's  mouth  it  would  not  bea  mouth  but  a  vegetable  garden.  "