 b"PITY  the  poor  bore.  He  stands  Pamong  us  as  a  creature  formidable  and  familiar  yet  in  essence  un-  knowable.  We  can  read  of  the  ten  infal-  lible  signs  whereby  he  may  be  recog-  nized  and  of  the  seven  tested  methods  whereby  he  may  be  rebuffed.  Valuable  monographs  exist  upon  his  dress  and  diet;  the  study  of  his  mating  habits  and  migrational  routes  is  well  past  the  speculative  stage;  and  statistical  studies  abound.  One  out  of  three  hun-  dred  and  twelve  Americans  is  a  bore,  forinstance,  and  a  healthy  male  adult  bore  consumes  each  year  one  and  a  half  times  his  own  weight  in  other  people's  patience.  But  in  all  this  vast  literature  (and  this  is  not  to  disparage  the  scientists  who  have  selflessly  carried  forward  their  research,  nor  the  generous  philanthropic  foundations  that  endowed  their  gleam-  ing  laboratories)  one  grave  defect  persists:  the  bore  is  always  described  externally,  in  a  tone  of  distance  and  distaste.  Hence  the  central  question-  what  makes  a  few  people  bores  when  the  rest  of  us  are  so  fascinating?-re-  mains  cloaked  in  mystery.  Yet  bores,  unlike  Red  Indians,  were  nothere  to  greet  the  Pilgrims.  They  do  not,  like  rabid  bats,  come  upfrom  [REDACTED].  No:  the  shameful  truth,  suppressed  by  both  the  public  press  and  the  spokesmen  of  our  federal  government,  is  that  bores  are  created  out  of  our  own  number.  Each  year,  a  few  healthy  Americans,  whether  by  alchemy,  infection,  or  un-  scrupulous  recruiting  methods  among  the  alumni,  are  converted  into  bores.  How  can  this  happen?  The  riddle  of  borogenesis  has  defied  solution  for  sev-  eral  reasons.  For  one  thing,  by  their  very  natures  bores  are  the  most  dif-  ficult  and  unappetizing  class  of  society  to  interview,  and  have  been  shunned  where  prostitutes,  alcoholics,  juvenile  delinquents,  and  even  organization  men  have  been  (sociologically)  embraced.  For  another,  bores  have  themselves  heavily  infiltrated  (I  wish  to  frighten  no  one,  but  facts  are  facts)  the  very  psy-  chological  sciences  that  should  be  grap-  pling  with  the  problem!  But  the  chief,  and  most  impressive,  obstacle  is  that  bores  are  oblivious  of  being  such.  A  mature,  fully  feathered  bore  absolutely  believes  that  he  is  just  like  anybody  else-if  anything,  cuter;  so  he  has  no  recollection  of  becoming  one.  Hence  superstition  continues  to  hold  court,  and  what  is  actually  a  disease  is  still  widely  regarded  as  a  vice.  I  have  been  prompted  to  these,  and  other,  thoughts  by  a  remarkable  docu-  ment  pressed  upon  me,  with  a  wild,  pleading  look  of  apology,  by  an  insuffer-  able  person  as  I  was  leaving  a  dinner  party  he  had  utterly  ruined  with  his  ceaseless  prattle.  Though  it  will  strike  some  tastes,  no  doubt,  as  too  morbid  for  print,  I  submit  it  in  the  interests  of  sun-  light,  reason,  and  mercy:  OW  innocently  [the  document,  written  in  a  fluent  hand  on  sev-  eral  hundred  sheets  of  lawyer's  yellow  foolscap,  begins]  it  all  began!  I  noticed  a  faint,  not  disagreeable  itching  in  the  back  of  my  throat  whenever  anyone  else  talked  for  as  long  as  two  or  three  min-  utes.  I  would  shake  my  head  vigorously,  and  think  that  the  sensation  would  pass,  but  by  the  fourth  minute  the  itching  be-  came  so  unbearable  that  I  Aad  to  inter-  rupt.  At  first,  my  remarks  bore  a  de-  ceptive  pertinence  to  the  topics  under  discussion,  and  I  flatter  myself  that  in  those  early  monthsno  one  but  my  wife,  whose  canny  blueeyes  developed  a  de-  fensive  narrowing  tic,  noticed  anything  amiss.  My  first  total  blackout  occurred  to-  ward  the  end  of  August.  It  had  been  a  very  warm  August,  but  that  evening  a  little  breeze  sprang  up  off  the  bay,  and  my  wife  and  I  attended  a  dinner  party  with  a  few  of  our  dearest  friends.  Never,  I  thought,  had  the  food  been  so  delicious,  the  wine  so  subtle,  the  ladies  so  lovely,  and  the  gentlemen  so  sturdy,  acute,  and  wry.  Our  conversation  on  the  veranda  seemed  a  veritable  dance  of  ideas,  counterthrusts,  and  graceful  laughter.  I  was  dazzled  to  think  that  here,  in  this  specific  house  on  the  North  American  continent,  Mankind's  tortu-  ous  climb  toward  civilization  had  at  last  borne  fruit.  Imagine,  then,  my  amaze-  ment  when,  in  the  private  closeness  of  our  car,  asI  huramed  a  popular  air  in  celebration  of  a  perfect  night,  my  wife  turned  to  me  and  snapped,  &quot;Why  did  you  talkso  much?  You  bored  everybody  silly.&quot;  &quot;I?&quot;  I  protested.  &quot;I  said  little;  but  that  little,  well.&quot;  &quot;Stuff  !&quot;  she  testily  exclaimed.  &quot;Your  tongue  didn't  stopfor  four  hours.  You  drove  poor  Maggie  Wentworth  abso-  lutely  to  sleep.  And  as  for  Horace,  you  brought  on  a  bilious  attack  that  had  him  hiccuping  like  acricket.&quot;  [Several  pages  of  such  dialogue  are  here  ex-  punged.-Ep.]  Even  now,  I  find  it  difficult  to  believe  that  her  impression  of  the  evening  is  the  correct  one.  One  piece  of  evidence,  however-admittedly  circumstantial-emerged  to  support  her  case.  The  Wentworths  never  had  us  back,  though  they  owe  us.  After  this  seizure  I  was  more  watch-  ful  of  myself.  Ideliberately  limited  my  conversational  offerings,  even  in  rela-  tion  to  subjects  upon  which  I  was  plain-  ly  the  best  informed  and  possessed  the  most  lively  and  intricate  opinions.  I  made  myself,  as  it  were,  a  mere  sup-  plier  of  footnotes,  and  artificially  with-  held  from  my  fellow-humans  the  riches  of  information  and  nuance  I  knew  to  be  within  me.  I  was  on  the  verge  of  shuck-  ing  this  (as  I  thought)  foolish  and  in-  hibiting  cocoon  when  late  one  night,  as     " b"I  was  briefly  qualifying  some-  thing  someone  else  had  said-  scarcely,  indeed,  qualifying;  merely  restating  his  gist  in  more  lucid  and  understandable  terms-I  noticed,  to  my  hor-  ror,  that  a  delicate  but  distinct  glaze  had  overspread  the  faces  of  my  auditors.  It  is  impossible  to  convey  the  macabre  effect.  It  was  not  so  much  that  their  eyes  had  gone  out  of  focus  (for  some  eyes  were  staring  fixedly  at  me)  or  that  their  mouths  had  sagged  open  (for  some  mouths  were  rigidly  clamped  shut):  it  was  the  curious  uniformity  of  complexion,  as  if  with  one  swipe  their  faces  had  been  painted  with  the  same  lacquer,  an  impalpable  coating  whose  emotional  color,  translated  into  visual  terms,  was  the  yellow  of  distant  wheat  fields  seen  through  a  grimy  train  window.  And,  though  I  paused,  gagging  on  my  terror  at  this  disgust,  ing  omen,  I  went  right  on  talking.  It  was  then  that  I  real-  ized  that  I  was  a  hopelessly  ill  man.  My  subsequent  decay  was  not  without  its  pretty  phos-  phorescences.  One  of  the  most  vivid,  and  in  a  way  mystical,  sensations  is  that  of  repetition.  As  words  issue  from  one's  mouth,  one  is  conscious  of  having  said  them  before,  but  with  no  idea  of  whether  it  was  an  hour  ago,a  week  ago,  or  in  another  world  alto-  gether.  The  feeling  is  not  unlikethe  universally  experienced  intuition  of  hav-  ing  been  in  a  strange  place  at  a  previous  time,  which  offers  to  some  a  comfort-  ing  proof  ofthe  doctrine  of  reincarna-  tion.  The  bore's  repetition  wears  a  kindred  nimbus  of  romantic  reassur-  ance;  though  I  know  I  have  pronounced  these  words  before,  perhaps  to  this  identical  company,  yet  I  have  no  in-  clination  to  stop.  Indeed,  the  words  seem  enhanced  by  repetition,  as  in  some  aesthetic  credos  furniture  and  utensils  are  improved  in  beauty  by  their  marks  of  wear.  Becoming  a  bore  is  far  from  a  simple,  simultaneous  decline  of  the  mental  and  sensory  faculties.  On  the  contrary,  some  are  unhealthily  heightened.  As  one's  stock  of  anecdotes  and  topics  dwindles  to  a  precious  few,  one's  ability  to  relate  these  obsessive  subjectsto  a  running  con-  versation  increases.  It  is  truly  astound-  ing  with  what  ease  the  mind  of  the  bore  creates  an  illusory  relevance!  If,  as  has  been  said,  the  mark  of  the  rational  mind  is  the  ability  to  perceive  connections  be-     tween  unlike  things,  then  the  bore  is  truly  in  the  forefront  of  rational  beings.  For  instance:  I  am  oppressed  by  a  pecul-  iar  vague  emotion,  or  circular  set  of  propositions,  about  my  home  town  that,  boiled  down  to  its  essence,  might  go  as  follows:  &quot;It  seems  extraordinary  to  me  that  the  town  where  I  was  born,  and  spent  all  my  formative  years,  had  noth-  ing  extraordinary  about  it.  Yet  is  not  this,  in  a  sense,  extraordinary?&quot;  Not  that  I  ever  state  it  so  baldly.  My  effort  to  unburden  myself  of  this  strange  mes-  sage  usually  takes  the  form  of  a  sentence  beginning,  &quot;In  the  town  where  I  grew  up,&quot;  and  going  on  to  describe  some  in-  nocuous  condition  like  the  way  the  mail-  man  walked  up  one  side  of  the  street  and  then  down  the  other.  Non-bores  can  have  no  conception  of  how  many  oppor-  tunities  I  perceive  in  the  course  of  an  hour  to  intrude  this  kind  of  informa-  tion.  A  conversation  on,  say,  cybernetics  seems  to  my  deranged  but  active  brain  an  immense  sieve  full  of  holes  crying  to  be  plugged  with  a  sentence  beginning,  &quot;In  the  town  where  I  grew  up.&quot;  The  glaze  on  the  faces  around  me  is  no  long-  er  a  deterrent,  since  that  particular  var-  nish  is  applied  now  the  moment  I  enter  a  room.  I  am  indifferent  to  it;  I  am  indifferent  to  sniggers,  to  yawns,  to  the  creeping  net  of  ostracism  that  is  tighten-  ing  around  me  and  my  family.  There  is    one  delight  left  in  my  life,  one  music  toward  whose  enchanted  strains  my  whole  being  is  bent.  My  throat  itches,  my  larynx  inflates  with  air,  my  tongue  contorts;  and  I  am  drowned  in  bubbling  syllables  of  bliss.  Yet,  between  the  luminous  day  of  normality  and  the  ecstatic  night  of  bor-  ingness  there  exists  a  twilight,  brief  for  some,  agonizingly  long  for  others,  in  which  the  sufferer  flitters  ambiguously  among  phantasmal  shapes  of  embarrass-  ment  and  shame.  While  his  tongue  hap-  pily  lopes  along,  a  remote  corner  of  his  mind  involuntarily  observes  the  dismal  effects  he  is  producing;  in  intervals  of  extreme  lucidity  he  is  even  bored  him-  self.  It  is  in  such  a  twilit  moment  that  I  have  sat  down  to  pen,  before  the  black  curtain  finally  falls,  these  hasty  words,  this  quick  cry.  In  the  town  where  I  grew  up  .  ..  [The  remaining  hundred  and  eighty  thousand  words  of  the  con-  fession,  while  of  indubitable  interest  to  the  specialist,  are  well  in  excess  of  the  needs  of  the  general  reader."