 b"TO  put  it  simply,  I  have  never  un-  derstood  anything  about  money.  Oh,  I  can  count  it;  I  can  make  change.  But  the  stuff  concerning  which  the  soothsayers  issue  statements  augur-  ing  boom,  inflation,  or  decay  means  nothing  to  me.  I  cannot  jingle  it.  It  will  not  fold.  I  learn  by  the  papers  that  sometimes  it  is  tight,  sometimes  it  is  fluid,  sometimes  itis  hard,  and  so,  some-  times,  I  suppose,  it  must  be  soft.  Some-  times-they  say,  and  I  hear  them  wide-  eyed-it  is  cheap.  To  me,  all  this  is  unearthly,  contrived  by  gnomes.  In  the  course  of  an  education  notable  for  its  failure  to  give  me  a  firm  hold  on  long  division,  let  alone  on  the  equation  ex-  pressing  the  quantity  theory  of  money,  I  did  manage  to  pick  up  one  scrap  of  economics,  but  even  that  has  always  puzzled  me.  According  to  Gresham's  Law,  bad  money  drives  out  good.  Bad?  As  far  asI  am  concerned,  there  is  no  bad  money-filthy,  perhaps,  if  you  have  got  it  by  second-story  work,  but  not  bad.  Besides,  I  have  all  along  pictured  money  as  being  drawn-rather  than  driven-  out  by  suction,  by  some  great,  starving  outer  vacuum.  At  any  rate,  out  it  goes,  and  recently  I  have  come  to  understand  that  tinkering  with  the  coming  and  going  of  money,  driven  or  otherwise,  may  be  all  right  for  sovereign  states  and  their  economies,  but  there  is  a  limit  to  what  it  can  do  around  the  house.  I  am  thinking  of  an  enterprising  and  unreticent  man  I  know  whose  name  is  Herbert,  and  of  his  viewsabout  money  versus  those  of,  among  others,  Miss  Sylvia  Porter,  the  financial  writer.  I  recall  reading  in  Miss  Porter's  column  last  November  that  when  she  had  temporarily  forgotten  to  earmark  a  weekly  sum  for  saving,  she  found  that  the  money  vanished  to  no  purpose-  was  &quot;frittered  away,&quot;  as  she  put  it,  &quot;on  dribs  and  drabs.&quot;  (Driven  out,  you  see.  Inhaled  by  hollow  space.  Elf-eaten.)  She  recommended  that  to  escape  this  mischance  her  readers  buy  savings  bonds  on  a  regular  schedule.  Well,  two  years  earlier,  Herbert  had  taken  a  long,  appraising  squint  at  the  question  of  dribs  and  drabs,  and  had  come  up  withan  ex-  hilarating  answer  of  his  own-one  that,  when  I  read  what  I  considered  the  gray  counsel  of  Miss  Porter,  was  still  holding  him  (and  me)  transfixed.  It  seemed  to  me  then  that  at  long  last  I  was  about  to  make  sense  of  economics.  Herbert  is  tall  and  freckled.  His  hair  stands  up  all  over  his  head  and  then  shoots  forward  to  form  a  little  shelf  above  his  glasses.  He  is  concentrated,  cheerful,  and,  in  a  manner  of  speaking,  informed.  When  I  first  knew  him,  he  was,  in  his  spare  time,  a  philosopher.  Later,  he  became,  among  other  weekend  incarnations  (ornithologist,  flautist),  a  gourmet.  Last  fall,  he  married.  But  be-  fore  that,  he  lived  for  a  long  time  in  a  succession  of  windy  and  slightly  dis-  traught  apartments,  through  which  his  friends  and  random  strangers  flowed  in-  cessantly.  And  on  a  late-winter  day  a  couple  of  years  ago,  he  asked  me  to  stand  by  for  moral  support  while  he  moved  from  one  of  these  to  the  next.  He  had  given  up  smoking  that  week,  he  said,  and  he  was  jumpy.  About  all  I  did,  really,  was  carry  a  forlorn  little  suitcase  and  his  bust  of  Socrates  the  four  blocks  between  the  two  apartments.  Nevertheless,  it  was  a  task.  The  suitcase  was  heavy.  &quot;What  have  you  got  in  there?&quot;  I  asked  when  I  faced  him  in  his  new  home.  &quot;Money,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Just  bring  it  on  back  to  the  pantry,  would  you  please?&quot;  We  went  to  the  pantry.  He  opened  the  grip.  It  was  packed  with  instant  coffee  jars  full  of  dimes.  He  set  them  out  along  the  back  of  the  topmost  shelf.  They  looked  like  jam  pots,  sitting  there  in  a  row,  old-fashioned  and  prim.  &quot;Roosevelts,&quot;  Herbert  said.  &quot;But  nothing  political.  When  they  first  came  out,  I  felt  I  ought  to  collect  them.  I  have  a  collector's  instinct,  you  know.     35  I  thought  they  might  be  scarce,  but  they  kept  right  on  coming.  Fourteen  years.  I've  always  meant  to  put  them  into  a  bank,  but  I'd  feel  like  a  fool  lugging  them  up  to  the  window.&quot;  I  said  they  weren't  gathering  any  interest  on  his  shelf.  I  said,  remember-  ing  a  tag  from  the  textbooks  of  other  years,  that  they  were  dead  money.  I  said  it  was  a  cardinal  urge  of  economists  to  keep  money  up  and  about,  to  make  it  work.  I  asked  him  if  he  didn't  know  there  was  a  boom  on.  &quot;Carpe  diem,  Herbert,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;Use  your  capital.&quot;  Herbert  stared  at  me-he  is,  him-  self,  fond  of  crying  &quot;Carpe  diem!&quot;&quot;--  and  thenhe  nodded.  Y  idea  of  economics-gnomes,  Gresham's  Law,  and  hungry  vacuums  aside-has  always  been  sim-  ply  that  here  you  have  a  stupefying  procedure  whereby  people  all  over  the  world  goon  mysteriously  taking  in  one  another's  wash  and  somehow  profiting  by  it,  and  Herbert  as  economist  (for  in  fact  he  became  one  on  the  spot)  did  nothing  at  all  to  dispel  the  baffling  image.  Still,  in  his  hands  the  process  seemed  marvellously  plausible.  I  had  often  wondered  why  on  earth  it  didn't  just  stop,  sometime-run  off  the  spin-  dle,  blow  up.  Looked  at  through  Her-  bert's  eyes,  seen  in  the  clear  simplicity  of  his  diminished  scale,  there  was  no  reason  why  it  should.  It  could  go  on  " b"and  on  producing  capital,  goods,  and  services  forever.  For  a  few  weeks,  he  continued  mere-  ly  to  expand  his  capital.  The  cigarettes  that  he  had  given  up  had  cost  two-fifty  a  carton.  He  had  smoked  a  carton  a  week.  &quot;If  I  had  quit  a  month  earlier,  that  money  would  never  have  been  seen  again,&quot;  he  told  me  (two  years,  I  may  say,  before  Miss  Porter  was  to  write  about  dribs  and  drabs).  &quot;Evaporation.  Bam!&quot;  Now  he  saved  the  money.  Self-  improvement  had  given  him  an  expand-  ed  weekly  capital  accretion  of  two  dol-  lars  and  fifty  cents.  I  said  that,  if  memory  served,  mere  adding  to  capital  was  not  the  idea.  It  was  not  an  end  in  itself,  any  more  than  hoarding  was.  Sooner  or  later,  you  were  supposed  to  start  taking  in  the  wash.  He  said  he  was  getting  to  that.  &quot;What  I  have  on  my  pantry  shelf  is  bullion-mere  metal,&quot;  he  said  sternly  at  our  next  meeting.  We  were  on  our  way  to  a  winetasting.  (I  should  men-  tion  that  Herbert  remained  an  unwa-  vering  gourmet  throughout  his  term  as  a  one-man  economic  system.)  &quot;Money  not  put  to  work  is  conspicuous  waste.  I  have  been  reading.&quot;  It  appeared  that  his  reading,  if  el-  liptical,  had  been  voracious.  It  had  taught  him,  among  other  things,  that  services  as  well  as  bread  and  alarm  clocks  are  consumed.  He  said  he  was  now  converting  his  dimes  into  silver  certificates  (&quot;Dollar  bills,&quot;  he  mur-  mured  kindly),  and  that  the  exchange  of  monies  was  a  service-something  that  was  consumed  and  had  to  be  paid  for.  &quot;I  charge  myself  a  dime  on  the  dollar,&quot;  he  said,  &quot;and  that  increases  my  capital.  It  builds  up.&quot;  &quot;It  must,&quot;  I  said.  &quot;But  where  do  monies  come  from?  How  do  they  work?  Does  economics  make  sense?&quot;  &quot;Economics  makes  spectacular  sense,&quot;  Herbert  answered.  &quot;Where  did  the  dimes  come  from?  They  came  out  of  slack.  I  never  missed  them.  That's  the  secret.  All  you  have  to  do  is  work  things  right.  No  more  open  econ-  omy  for  me,  boy.  Controls.  Manipula-  tion.  I  keep  reading.&quot;  TIME  passed.  I  went  on  puzzling  over  the  sense  economics  made.  On  the  faceof  it,  the  profit  system,  for  example,  seemed  to  be  forthright  enough-a  solid,  stolid  affair  of  selling  for  more  than  you  buy  for.  Done  and  done,  money  in  the  pocket,  home  to  dinner.  But  then,  in  the  watches  of  the  night,  sometimes,  a  man  can  get  to  thinking.  If  (I  would  ask  myself  at  such  moments)-if  all  the  people  Her-  bert  now  insists  on  referring  to  as  entrepreneurs  make  profits,  like  him,  from  slack,  will  the  slack  they  make  the  profits  from  never  give  out?  When  I  was  a  child,  I  learned  that  all  the  salt  in  the  sea  comes  out  ofa  little  mill  at  the  bottom  that  keeps  on  grinding,  grinding.  Was  slack,  I  would  wonder  (listening  to  tiny  sounds  in  the  black-  ness),  like  that?  And  I  would  think  back  to  the  dwarf  who,  night  after  night,  with  a  spinning  wheel,  spun  a  roomful  of  straw  into  gold.  Was  Her-  bert,  so  to  speak,  Rumpelstiltskin?  &quot;Profits  are  made  by  an  entrepreneur  who  utilizes  investment  opportunities,&quot;  Herbert  told  me  when  I  tried  to  ask  him  about  the  dwarf  and  the  mill  at  the  bottom  of  the  sea.  &quot;Something  of  the  sort.  Economics  is  no  snap,  you  know.&quot;  He  was  giving  a  party,  and  I  was  able  to  corner  him  only  briefly,  but  I  had  been  awake  half  the  night,  and  I   felt  that  I  had  to  talk  to  him.  &quot;The  thing  to  do,  if  you  want  a  profit,  is  to  get  your-  self  a  monopoly.&quot;  He  raised  a  didactic  finger.  &quot;Monopoly  means  one  seller  on-  ly.  Monopsony,  by  the  way,  means  only  one  buyer.  By  virtue  of  my  dimes  and  my  studies,  I  am  now  profitably  engaged  in  the  wine-and-liquor  business.  People's  capitalism.  Enlightened  self-interest  on  the  march.&quot;  He  started  away  but  turned  back,  perhaps  delayed  by  a  look  of  in-  quiry  on  my  face.  &quot;Only  in  a  modest  way,  of  course,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  in  busi-  ness  just  with  myself.&quot;  He  meant,  I  soon  learned,  that  he  was  taking  in  Ais  own  wash.  Nobody  else's.  I  thought  it  brilliant  of  him.  Here,  indeed,  was  an  answer.  Controlled  slack  perpetuates  slack:  Herbert's  Law.  It  was  that  simple.  How  could  he  miss?  As  a  host,  he  was  accustomed  to  be  lavish.  As  a  gourmet,  he  knew  a  bargain  in  potables  when  he  saw  it.  Once,  he  had  bought  wine  and  spirits  where  he  found  them,  as  he  needed  them-easy  come,  easy  go,  pay  any  old  asking  price.  &quot;Economic  anarchy,&quot;  he  said  now,  " b"looking  backward.  &quot;Un-  believable!&quot;  For  the  past  two  months,  he  had  been  buying  nothing  but  bar-  gains  by  the  case.  Now  when  he  gave  a  party,  he  bought  his  bottles  from  himself,  stowing  away  doubtless  back  in  the  very  jars  that  had  given  him  the  nucleus  of  his  fortune-  the  amounts  they  would  have  cost  him  in  his  days  of  laissez-faire.  &quot;Monop-  oly  and  monopsony,&quot;  he  said.  &quot;I'm  making  a  wad  tonight.&quot;  If  it  didn't  make  sense,  I  was  too  bemused  to  know  it.  Economics  was,  as  Herbert  had  plainly  said,  no  snap.  Yet  here  he  was,  making  it  work  be-  fore  my  eyes,  and  I  de-  termined  that  if  it  went  on  working  for  him  I  would  take  on  faith  the  fact  that  it  worked  all  over.  &quot;The  wine-and-liquor  fund  is  stinking  rich,&quot;  Herbert  said.  (The  party  was  subsiding,  I  was  about  to  leave,  and  he  and  I  had  fallen  once  more  to  talk-  ing  of  commerce.)  &quot;Very  handy.  I  can  borrow  from  it  when  I  get  a  little  stuck,  but  I  try  not  to.  The  interest  rate  is  ap-  palling.  Well,  that's  free  enterprise  for  you.  Soak  the  poor.&quot;     IT  looked  to  Herbert,  and  it  looked  to  me,  as  if  he  had  got  himself  an  ever-expanding  economy,  but  we  were  merely  dazzled.  The  storm  sig-  nals  were  already  flying,  had  we  heeded  them.  &quot;Fluctuations,  termed  'business  cycles,&quot;  are  characterized  by  prosperity,  recession,  depressions  and  recovery.&quot;  I  found  that  sentence  late  this  winter  in  an  old  economics  textbook  that  seems  to  have  been  following  me  down  the  years.  (The  emphasis  is  mine.)  And  I  thought  when  I  saw  it  that  surely  such  a  sentence  must  have  been  somewhere  in  Herbert's  books,  to  warn  him.  Nevertheless,  he  had  hiked  prices.  He  had  forced  up  in-  terest  rates.  He  had  gone  on  a  spree  of  installment  buying,  paying  cash  out  of  capital  for  a  sofa,  then  repaying  himself  monthly,  adding  an  abusive  carrying  charge.  (&quot;Why  should  the  malefactors  of  great  wealth  get  all  theextra  dough?&quot;  he  had  asked.)  Finally,  he  had  kept  going  around  with  this  girl,  this  Alice,  month  after  month,  and  then  he  had  married  her.  And  so  the  simple,  ortho-  dox  fact  is,  a  population  explosion,  cou-  pled  with  a  return  to  a  conservative  economy  and  tight  money,  proved  too  much.  The  pendulum  swung,  the  bub-  ble  burst,  Herbert-like  Wall  Street  long  ago-laid  an  egg.  Alice  was-she  is-a  nice  girl,  with  eyes  only  for  Herbert  and  thoughts  only  for  his  good.  They  were  married  in  September,  and  things  seemed  fine  for  a  while.  Then,  &quot;Alice  has  read  some  article  by  a  woman  financial  writer,&quot;  Herbert  told  me,  a  little  after  the  mid-  dle  of  November.  &quot;Veblen  says,  'With  the  exception  of  the  instinct  of  self-pres-  ervation,  the  propensity  for  emulation  is  probably  the  strongest  ofthe  economic  motives.&quot;  Well,  Alice  wants  to  emulate  the  financial  woman.  The  woman  does  her  own  household  accounts.  She  says  most  American  wives  do.  You  can't  blame  Alice  for  not  wanting  to  beout  in  the  cold,  can  you?  Still  ..  .&quot;  That  was  the  beginning  of  the  end.  Since  then,  I  have  seen  Herbert  only  once,  early  this  year,  when  he  came  by  to  ease  his  thoughts.  &quot;Alice  can't  seem  to  catch  on,&quot;  he  said  sadly.  &quot;I  tried  to  explain  what  to  do  with  slack,  but  the  woman  had  beaten  me  to  it.  She  sees     things  differently.  We're  losing  money  every  day.  And  you  understand,  I  love  Alice,  but  when  she  buys  a  bargain,  you  can  always  sort  of  tell  it,  and  there  I  am.  One  halfofa  household-  I  won't  go  on.  Now  the  woman  has  got  Alice  put-  ting  all  our  slack  into  E  Bonds.&quot;  He  said  something  about  interest  of  three  and  three-quarters  per  cent,  and  something  about  Uncle  Shylock.  Then  he  went  on  home,  no  longer  his  own  economic  system,  just  a  man  in  the  grip  of  the  other  one.  ELL,  boom  and  bust,  boom  and  bust.  That  is  the  classic  sequence,  the  picture  seen  by  those  who  can  make  sense  of  economics,  and  no  doubt  there  is  a  great  deal  to  it.  Clearly,  in  Her-  bert's  small  family  some  kind  of  money-hard,  soft,  fluid,  tight,  cheap,  loose,  good  or  bad-is  driving  out  other  money.  And  with  it  goes  the  glimmering  hope  I  had  of  understanding  Gresham's  Law  and  all  the  rest  of  it.  Perhaps,  after  all,  that  is  better.  I  think  there  may  bethings  we  are  not  meant  to  un-  derstand.  So  now  I  see  economics  in  my  own  way  again.  I  have  given  it  back  to  the  elves. "