 b"FOR  years  now,  I  have  been  an  Fof\xef\xac\x81cer  in  the  United  States  Navy,  and  a  captain  since  1951.  Not  be-  ing  an  Annapolis  man,  I  am  slightly  older  than  most  captains  who  have  the  same  date  of  rank,  although  I  do  not  feel  older  except  on  occasions  when  the  wardroom  table  has  been  cleared  and  the  conversation  turns  to  boyhood  reminiscence.  My  West  [REDACTED]  child-  hood  was  fifty  years  ago,  but  viewed  in  the  light  of  stories  told  by  my  col-  leagues-even  those  who  are  my  own  age-it  might  have  been  a  full  century  back.  If  they  remember  the  Gaslight  Era,  what  I  remember  is  the  Kerosene.  Their  fathers  drove  Reos  or  Clevelands  or  Oldsmobiles-one  of  my  shipmates  fondly  recalls  a  Buick  that  had  to  be  cranked  from  the  side,  and  another  rode,  around  1907,  in  a  Stanley  Steam-  er.  My  father  drove  a  Studebaker,  but  it  was  the  wagon,  not  the  car.  In  1907,  Papa  had  never  seen  an  automobile.  He  did  more  than  merely  drive  the  Stude-  baker  wagon;  he  lived  in  it  and  out  of  it,  and  so  did  all  his  family.  By  the  time  I  was  born,  the  wagon  was  old,  but  age  in  a  wagon  was  not  important.  It  had  been  built  to  last,  and  in  those  days  the  makers  of  vehicles  did  not  change  their  models  every  year,  or  even  every  five.  The  Studebaker  was  a  ranch,  or  farm,  wagon-smaller  and  lighter  than  the  heavy  scow-shaped  Conestoga  covered  wagon-and  it  had  tall  rear  wheels  and  broad  steel  tires,  with  fat  hubs  and  sturdy  spokes.  The  wagon  box  had  originally  been  forest  green,  with  yellow  trim  and  scroll-  work  and  a  modestly  small  Studebaker  mark.  When  I  knew  it,  it  had  faded  somewhat,  and  the  once  bright-red  paint  on  the  running  gear  was  weathered  to  a  brownish  pink.  The  cover  was  tar-  paulin,  arched  over  the  top  high  enough  for  a  grown  person  to  move  about  with-  out  stooping  when  the  wagon  bed  was  empty,  and  with  puckered  front  and  rear  openings  of  canvas  that  could  be  closed  off  by  tightening  a  drawstring  in  the  hem  and  taking  in  the  slack.  Under  thetarp  were  all  of  our  household  pos-  sessions  and  personal  goods-Mama's  cast-iron  cookstove,  her  sewing  ma-  chine,  a  trunk  or  two,  the  feather  beds  and  homemade  quilts-and,  on  top  of  all  these,  the  children.  When  we  stopped  to  makecamp  for  any  length  of  time,  it  was  all  unloaded  and  set  up  in  the  tentthat  we  carried  in  the  rawhide  &quot;cooney&quot;&quot;-a  sort  of  hammock  slung  under  the  wagon  box.  But  when  Papa  had  enough  money  ahead,  we  travelled,  and  then  we  lived  out  of  the  wagon.  If  the  stars  were  bright,  the  family  always  slept  on  the  ground,  and  ifit  rained  we  bedded  down  in  and  under  the  wagon.  No  matter  what  the  weather,  Mama  cooked  three  meals  a  day  over  a  camp-  fire,  always  baking  hot  bread  in  a  skillet.  We  carried  water  ina  six-gallon  keg  racked  outside  the  wagon  box  on  the  left  side;  it  was  covered  with  a  piece  of  tar-  paulin  to  keep  out  the  dust  and  the  yel-  low  jackets.  In  the  endgate,  a  sloped-  front  chuckbox  held  food,  and  when  it  was  opened  the  smell  of  freshly  ground  Arbuckle  coffee,  of  dried  apples  and  blackstrap  sorghum  molasses,  of  bacon  and  hot  Mexican  chili  peppers  joined  the  other  smells,  rich  and  strong  under  the  hot  Southwestern  sun,  that  made  up  the  aura  of  the  wagon-Ilinseed  oil,  with  which  the  tarpaulin  cover  was  treated  to  make  it  water  repellent;  the  turpentine  sharpness  of  axle  grease,  ooz-  ing  black  and  thin  from  the  hubs;  neat's-  foot  oil,  rubbed  regularly  into  the  sweat-  darkened  harness  to  keep  it  pliable;  and  spilled  kerosene  from  the  dust-coated  lantern  and  the  gallon  can  we  carried,  a  shrivelled  Irish  potato  impaled  on  its  spout.  The  wagon  had  its  own  sounds,  too.  It  was  filled  with  mysterious  creak-  ings,  like  an  old  ship  at  sea,  and  the  wind  blowing  through  the  puckered  front  and  rear  openings  of  the  tarp  produced  a  soft  and  rhythmic  drumming  on  the  wooden  bows.  When  the  team  was  in  a  trot,  the  steel  trace  chains  jingled,  and  sometimes  we  had  bells  on  the  hame  straps  of  our  harness.  For  tools,  there  were  an  axe,  a  claw  hammer,  a  single  wrench  that  fitted  both  the  hub  nuts  and  the  body  bolts  of  the  wag-  on,  and  a  pair  of  wire  cutters  Papa  hated  fences.  The  friction-brake  blocks  were  relined  by  nailing  old  shoes  flat  to  the  working  surfaces.  Indry  weather,  the  wheels  shrank  and  the  spokes  began  to  rattle,  and  sometimes  a  tire  threatened  to  leave  its  rim.  Papa  knew  the  cure  for  this;  if  there  was  no  water  where  the  wheel  could  be  soaked,  tire  and  rim  were  wrapped  with  thongs  of  wet  rawhide.  This  exerted  an  in-  credible  force  as  it  dried.  When  I  was  much  too  young  to  understand  anything  except  a  delicious  horror  at  the  situation,  I  heard  stories  of  unfaithful  wives  and  unfortunate  lovers  bound  together  in  green  rawhide.  MAMA  had  known  all  about  rawhide,  and  wagons,  since  1879,  the  year  she  married  Papa.  This  was  in  Sweet  Home,  Lavaca  County,  [REDACTED],  down  near  the  Gulf  Coast-about  as  far  east  as  you  could  go  without  getting  clear  out  of  the  country,  Papa  said.  In  1879,  Mama's  name  was  Betty  Ivanhoe  Ruck-  er.  She  was  only  fifteen,  and,  judging  from  a  tintype,  she  was  dainty  and  soft  and  beautiful,  and  no  one  would  have  suspected  the  frontier  fibre  in  her  make-  up.  One  moonlight  midnight,  at  aplay  party,  she  and  Papa  danced  out  the  door  to  ride  off  to  Hallettsville,  the  county  seat-Mama  on  a  sidesaddle-to  get  married.  'They  roused  a  sleepy  justice  of  the  peace,  who  looked  at  Mama  and  asked,  &quot;Young  lady,  how  oldare  you?&quot;  &quot;I'm  just  over  eighteen,&quot;  Mama  said.  Mama  lived  to  be  more  than  eighty-five,  and  in  all  her  life  she  never  really  told  a  lie.  On  her  wedding  night,  she  had  written  &quot;18&quot;  on  two  slips  of  paper  and  tucked  them  into  the  bottoms  of  the  slippers  she  was  wearing.  She  had  known  Papa  and  his  family  for  several  years.  She  knew  that  his  father,  my  grandpa  Henry  Bosworth,  had  driven  freight  wagons  for  the  Con-  federacy  along  the  wild  and  waterless  route  between  San  Antonio  and  Vera-  cruz.  Perhaps  Papa  went  along  on  some  of  those  expeditions  as  a  child;  there  seems  no  other  way  of  explaining  his  passion  for  wagons  or  his  love  for  the  frontier.  Whatever  the  reason,  he  be-  gan  chasing  the  frontier  immediately  after  he  married  Mama,  and  was  still  at  it  up  to  the  day  of  his  death.  After  their  marriage,  Papa  lifted  his  bride  to  the  seat  of  a  Studebaker  wagon-the  first  of  three  he  was  to  own-instead  of  carrying  her  across  any  thresh-  old.  They  drove  from  Sweet  Home  to  Goliad  County,  only  about  sixty  miles  to  the  south-  west,  taking  three  days  for  the  trip,  and  tarried  nearly  a  year  there,  living  part  of  the  time  in  the  wag-  on  and  part  of  it  in  a  log  cabin  they  rented  to  await  the  birth  of  my  oldest  brother,  Dee.  Then  they  went  on.  A  year  later,  they  stopped  again,  in  Gon-  zales  County  this  time,  to  await  the  arrival  of  my  oldest  sister,  Norah.  Over  the  years,  the  progress  of  the  wagon  was  like  that  ofa  schooner  tack-  ing  into  the  western  wind.  The  frontier  was  moving  westward  those  days  faster  than  a  wagon  could  travel,  and  Papa  was  handicapped  by  the  necessity  of  making  a  living  and  by  the  processes  of  fertility.  He  had  to  pitch  camp  for  months  at  a  time,  to  work  at  some  pay-  ing  job  or  to  wait  for  Mama  to  have  another  baby.  When  forced  to  it,  he  worked  at  the  carpenter's  trade,  and  he  was  something  of  a  mason  as  well.  Adobe  houses  he  constructed  west  of  the  Pecos  are  still  standing,  tight  and  dry.  In  a  small  way,  he  helped  build  " b"[REDACTED].  He  also  helped  populate  the  state.  He  and  Mama  had  ten  children,  each  one  born  in  a  different  county-[REDACTED]  counties  were  wide  and  thinly  settled-  each  progressively  farther  westward.  Some,  like  Dee,  were  born  in  log  cabins,  but  as  you  go  toward  West  [REDACTED]  the  timber  runs  out,  and  some  were  born  in  adobes.  My  brother  Floyd,  seven  years  my  senior,  was  born  in  a  real  house  that  Papa  roped  out  of  the  Brazos  River  at  floodtime.  I  was  the  last  child.  I  arrived  in  a  tent  that  had  been  pitched  between  the  Twin  Mountains,  far  out  west  near  San  Angelo,  in  Tom  Green  County.  Two  little  girls  died  in  early  childhood,  and  I  do  not  know  now  where  they  were  buried.  Land  was  free  for  the  taking,  but  Papa  never  filed  claim  to  any  of  it.  He  chafed  under  the  long  encampments,   and  when  he  could  stand  them  no  long-  er  he  would  saddle  and  ride  on  alone,  like  an  advance  scout  for  a  wagon  train,  looking  for  what  he  called  &quot;new  coun-  try.&quot;  None  of  the  &quot;new  country&quot;  quite  suited  him.  What  he  wanted  always  lay  beyond  the  western  hills,  flowing  with  milk  and  honey.  He  built  houses  for  other  people,  but  never  one  for  himself.  If  he  had  built  a  house  for  himself,  some-  one  would  have  been  sure  to  come  along  and  settle  nearby-and  by  &quot;nearby&quot;  Papa  meant  within  three  or  four  miles.  He  did  not  acquire  livestock,  beyond  the  wagon  team  and  a  good  saddle  horse,  because  he  could  see  that  barbed  wire  was  killing  the  open  range.  Barbed  wire  had  been  patented  in  1874  by  a  Mr.  J.  F.  Glidden,  of  De  Kalb,  [REDACTED],  and  suddenly  it  was  singing  in  the  wind  and  shining  in  the  sun  all  over  [REDACTED].  Papa    had  never  me  t  Mr.  Glid  den  ,  but  he  hated  him  as  a  da  mn  Yankee  and  a  disciple  of  the  Devil.  It  was  Papa's  belief  that  a  man  should  be  able  to  rid  e  his  horse  or  drive  his  wagon  anywhere  he  pleased,  without  having  to  turn  down  a  fen  ce  line  and  look  for  a  gate,  and  Papa  cut  more  than  one  barbed-wire  fence  before  the  famous  Fence  Cutters  War  was  fought  in  [REDACTED]  in  the  eighties.  He  didn't  think  that  horses  and  cows  ought  to  be  penned  u  p.  A  man  roped  mavericks  and  put  his  brand  upon  them,  and  thus  established  his  ownership  and  perpetuated  individual  enterprise.  That  was  the  way  Papa  had  felt  about  the  house  he  roped  out  of  the  Brazos  River.  The  house-roping  occurred  when  the  family  was  living  in  a  tent  in  the  Brazos  bottoms,  picking  cotton.  It  was  early  in  the  eighteen-nineties,  and  the  re  had  been  heavy  rains  a  long  way  off,  up  above  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  and  [REDACTED].  'The  Brazos  went  on  a  rise  so  high  it  was  threatening  the  tent.  Just  as  the  crest  of  the  flood  passed,  a  substantial  frame  house-a  painted  house  of  four  or  five  rooms-came  drifting  around  the  bend  of  the  river  in  stately  fashion.  Papa  g  ot  on  his  horse  and  splashed  out  into  the  shallow  s,  shaking  a  wi  de  loo  p  into  his  plaited  Mexican  horse hide  recte.  He  threw  the  rope  over  a  projecting  cornice  of  the  house,  dallied  it  around  a  hack-  berry  tree,  and  snubbed  the  house  up  close,  jus  t  the  way  he  would  have  handled  a  recalcitrant  longhorn  steer.  He  staked  out  the  house  there  until  the  water  subsided  and  left  it  resting  on  the  flattened  grass.  Papa  knew  nothing  of  maritime  law,  but  thought  of  the  house  as  a  maverick,  a  stray.  The  house  ha  d  furniture  in  it,  and  Papa  moved  the  family  i  n  and  lived  there  for  about  a  month,  and  Flo  yd  was  born  in  surroundings  of  unprecedented  comfort-  he  was  always  known  in  the  family  as  the  one  who  had  been  born  in  a  house.  Then  one  day  the  owner  came  riding  down  the  river's  edge,  hoping  tha  t  his  truant  dwelling  had  not  gon  e  all  the  way  t  o  the  Gu  lf.  He  didn't  say  much  when  he  found  the  ho  use  s  ound  and  occupied,  but  offered  Papa  twent  y  dollars  to  hitch  up  his  team  and  help  trundle  it  back  over  the  sandy  roads  to  its  former  site.  Unsure  of  his  legal  rights,  Papa  agreed.  He  never  collected  the  twenty  dollars,  though;  the  man  said  he  figured  Papa  owed  him  about  that  much  for  rent.  This  put  Papa  into  a  monumental  rage-he  was  at  best  a  man  of  short  temper  and  difficult  to  get  along  with.  He  said  he  was  too  far  east.  He  told  Mama  it  was  about  all  you  could  expect  of  the  &quot;chinchy&quot;  backwoods  people  along  the  Brazos,  who  would  skin  a  " b"flea  for  its  hide  and  tallow.  He  was  going  to  head  west.  HEN  I  was  not  yet  three,  Mama  and  Pa-  pa  were  &quot;parted&quot;  twenty-five  years,  ten  chil-  dren,  and  several  thousand  miles  of  wagon  travel.  Years  later,  when  I  was  old  enough  to  have  some  understanding  of  what  her  life  with  Papa  must  have  been,  I  asked  Mama  why  she  had  gone  along  for  as  long  as  she  had.  &quot;Well,&quot;  she  said,  &quot;there  were  the  children.  And  your  Papa  never  used  a  smutty  word  in  his  life,  and  he  never  looked  at  another  woman.&quot;  But  Papa  went  away  once too  often  to  look  for  new  country.  We  were  staying  in  a  tent  north  of  Roswell,  in  New  [REDACTED]-the  far-  thest  point  west  we  had  got-when  Papa,  growing  restless,  saddled  and  rode  out  on  a  scouting  trip.  Mama  knew  that  all  of  the  [REDACTED]  Territory  lay  before  him,  and  that  Cali-  fornia  was  beyond  that,  and  that  he  might  be  gone  a  spell.  Her  patience  was  finally  wearing  thin.  Dee  was  now  in  his  early  twenties  and  working  back  in  Hamilton  County,  [REDACTED],  on  a  ranch.  Norah  had  married  a  well  driller  and  was  living  in  Val  Verde  County,  on  the  Rio  Grande.  The  younger  children  were  not  getting  any  schooling.  'There  were  six  ofus  on  hand,  ranging  from  Jay,  sixteen,  to  me.  I  can  barely  re-  member.  Sadly  but  decisively,  Mama  packed  her  things.  Throughout  all  her  wan-  derings,  she  had  clung  to  a  few  posses-  sions  that  were  her  very  own-some  botanical  texts  that  had  belonged  to  her  father;  a  tiny  cowhide-bottomed  child's  chair  that  had  been  made  by  a  Negro  slave  owned  by  Mama's  family  before  the  war  and  that  Mama  and  each  of  her  ten  children  had  sat  in;  and  Ma-  ma's  looking  glass.  This  was  a  full-  length  gilt-framed  mirror  that  had  become  the  symbol  of  Mama's  gentility  and  her  vanity.  If  we  stopped  anywhere  for  more  than  a  day,  Mama  would  un-  wrap  her  looking  glass  from  the  quilts  that  protected  it,  lean  it  against  a  wagon  wheel  or  a  convenient  tree  or  the  tent  pole,  and  use  it  to  tie  her  sunbonnet  properly,  or  to  powder  her  face  with  a  little  mound  of  prepared  chalk.  Any-  body  could  see  that  Mama  had  been  a  very  pretty  woman.   She  called  for  Jay  to  hitch  up  the  team.  The  older  children  loaded  the  sewing  machine  and  cookstove  in-  to  the  wagon  and  tied  the  joints  of  rusty  stovepipe  underneath,  where  they  would  not  be  flattened.  They  piled  Mama's  feather  beds  and  handmade  quilts  on  top  of  the  furniture,  and  we  climbed  in  and  rode  there,  in  upholstered  comfort.  Mama  handled  the  reins  herself.  She  drove  south  and  east,  down  the  winding  valley  of  the  Pecos,  back  over  the  route  Papa  had  driven  usa  year  before.  Everybody  was  excited  about  going  back  to  [REDACTED],  and  at  the  state  line  Mama  stopped  the  wagon  so  that  she  and  the  six  children  could  run  a  foot  race  to  see  who  would  be  the  first  to  cross  the  bor-  der.  Jay  won.  Mama  stayed  on  the  west  side  of  the  PecosRiver  for  a  couple  of  weeks,  un-  til  we  came  to  the  little  town  of  Shef-  field.  This  place  had  once  been  a  stage  stand  on  the  road  that  connected  the  border  forts  in  buffalo  and  Comanche  days;  it  was  a  watering  place  even  when  Coronado  travelled  [REDACTED].  The  town,  as  such,  was  only  a  few  years  old.  It  was  named  for  the  [REDACTED]  family-  friends  of  Papa  and  Mama-and  con-  sisted  of  about  a  dozen  houses  set  be-  tween  the  glaring  white  limestone  hills.  Three  of  these  were  adobes  Papa  had  built.  The  556e69746564204b696e67646f6ds  told  us  that  Papa's  brother,  my  Uncle  Bob  Bosworth,  had  designed  and  was  operating  an  aerial  ferry  across  the  Pecos  River,  and  would  lift  our  wagon  over  for  nothing.  Mama's  stay  in  [REDACTED]  must  have  been  an  ordeal  for  her;  at  every  turn  she  was  confronted  with  Papa's  more  solid  achievements,  with  his  friends,  and  evenwith  his  relatives.  The  ferry  had  been  operating  suc-  cessfully  for  about  a  year,  but  when  the  Bosworth  wagon  was  in  the  sling  and  out  over  the  middle  of  the  river,  something  happened.  The  anchor  post  on  the  east  bank  came  out  of  the  ground,  the  cable  went  slack,  the  Studebaker  wagon  and  all  of  Mama's  goods  and  chattels  splashed  into  twelve  feet  of  al-  kaline  water.  It  was  fortunate  that  Mama  and  the  family-except  for  Jay,  who  swam  the  horses  across-had  al-  ready  been  ferriedto  the  eastern  shore.  Cowboys  watching  from  the  bank  promptly  shucked  their  boots  and  chaps  and  dived  in  to  salvage  such  things  as  the  feather  beds  that  were  going  adrift.  They  tied  a  number  of  ropes  to  the  tongue  and  the  front  wheels,  and,  using  considerable  horsepower,  they  snaked  the  wagon  out  of  the  river.  We  had  to  camp  for  two  weeks,  to  dry  things  out.  The  books  that  had  belonged  to  Grand-  father  Rucker  were  ruined.  The  sack  of  flour  hardened  like  cement,  but  in-  side  the  solid  cylinder  it  formed  there  was  a  slender  core  of  usable  flour,  and  Mama  went  on  baking  hot  bread,  as  usual.  When  the  bedding  was  dry,  she  drove  us  about  a  hundred  and  fifty  miles  " b" south  to  Del  Rio,  on  the  Rio  Grande,  to  visit  Norah  and  her  well-driller  hus-  band.  Later  that  month,  she  steered  an  erratic  course  northeastward  to  Hico,  in  Hamilton  County,  where  Dee  had  been  working  on  a  ranch.  This  is  west  of  Waco,  and  when  Mama  reached  Hico,  she  had  driven  the  Studebaker  wagon  nearly  a  thousand  miles,  without  Papa  to  guide  her.  She  and  Papa  were  separat-  ed  finally  by  something  more  than  dis-  tance  and  time,  now  that  Mama  was  back  in  [REDACTED]  with  most  of  the  chil-  dren.  It  was  not  long  after  this  that  she  went  to  court  and  got  a  divorce.  Norah  had  followed  Mama's  exam-  ple  and  married  at  fifteen,  and  so  had  my  middle  sister,  Ivanhoe  (she  was  named  for  my  mother).  Now  Maude  Ella  reached  that  age,  and  married  a  railroad  man.  She  and  Ivanhoe  both  moved  to  Stephenville,  which  is  south  of  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED],  and  Jay  went  there  and  got  a  job  with  the  Frisco  Railroad.  Dee  went  to  West  [REDACTED]  with  a  herd  of  cattle  and  stayed  there  to  work  on  an-  other  ranch.  The  children  were  getting  separated  again.  To  keep  as  many  of  us  together  as  she  could,  Mama  moved  Floyd  and  Bert  and  me  to  Stephenville,  but  we  hadn't  been  there  very  long  when  I  became  ill-typhoid  fever  com-  plicated  by  pneumonia-and  the  doctors  told  Mama  she  should  take  me  to  the  high,  dry  climate  of  West  [REDACTED].  It  was  a  few  months  before  I  was  well  enough  to  travel  and  endure  the  hardships  of  camping  out,  but  in  the  spring  after  my  illness  Mama  put  us  all  in  the  wagon  again.  Jay  quit  his  railroad  job,  and  the  family-now  down  to  Mama  and  four  boys-headed  west  to  join  Dee,  or  at  least  to  be  in  the  same  part  of  the  country  withhim.  The  distance  we  planned  to  travel  was  something  over  a  hundred  and  fifty  miles;  the  roads  were  either  sandy  or  muddy,  and  we  made  only  about  ten  miles  a  day.  Dee  was  still  nearly  a  hundred  miles  to  the  west  of  us  when  we  settled  near  the  little  town  of  Christoval,  on  the  South  Fork  of  the  Concho.  Jay  found  a  ranch  job  there,  and  Dee  rode  horse-  back  to  visit  us  for  a  few  days  and  to  discuss  future  plans  with  Mama.  We  were  living  in  a  rented  five-room  house  three  miles  from  Christoval,  and  only  a  half  mile  from  the  clear-flowing  Concho;  it  was  a  paradise  for  small  boys,  with  fishing  and  swimming  close  at  hand,  and  a  wide  variety  of  small  game  to  be  hunted  in  the  pasture  and  along  the  wooded  river  bottom.  But  when  we  had  been  therea  year,  Dee  wrote  to  tell  Mama  that  he  had  bought  her  a  house  for  two  hundred  dollars,  and  she  pre-  pared  to  load  her  things  in  the  wagon  again.  HE  house  Dee  had  bought  was  in  Ozona,  a  pretty  little  town  eighty  miles  from  the  ranch  where  he  worked,  and  the  county  seat  and  only  town  of  Crockett  County-a  2,794-square-mile  cattle  and  sheep  empire.  'The  year  we  moved  into  it  was  1907,  and  I  lacked  a  few  months  of  being  six  years  old.  I  remember  1907  (a  good  deal  more  clearly  than  I  can  remember  1937,  say)  because  it  was  an  unhurried  and  unworried  time,  and  every  sight  and  sound  and  taste  was  fresh.  The  Stude-  baker  wagon  was  the  one  I  had  always  known,  but  the  team  of  horses  had  been  replaced  by  a  span  of  mules.  I  reasoned  that  &quot;span&quot;  was  short  for  &quot;Spanish,&quot;  because  Dee  said  they  were  Spanish  mules.  I  remember  the  night  we  came  to  Ozona.  Dee  was  in  the  driver's  seat.  It  was  early  in  August.  We  stopped  for  the  night  about  six  miles  outside  town.  We  could  see  the  windmills  of  Ozona  against  the  eve-  ning  sky  and  we  could  have  gone  on  into  town,  but  Dee  wanted  Mama  to  see  the  two-hundred-dollar  house  first  in  daylight.  He  swung  the  mules  off  the  road  and  we  made  camp  in  a  mesquite  flat  near  the  J.  W.  Friend  &amp;  Sons  horse  ranch.  Floyd  and  Bert  and  I  gathered  dry  mesquite  wood  for  the  campfire,  andthrew  rocks  at  the  bullbats  that  were  diving  with  a  whiz-  zing  noise  in  the  dusk,  hunting  insects  they  could  hear  but  not  see.  Mama  let  down  the  lid  of  the  chuckbox  to  pre-  pare  supper,  and,  before  the  light  was  gone,  she  sent  me  into  the  mesquites  to  get  her  a  new  supply  of  &quot;tooth-  brushes,&quot;  which  she  used  as  dip  sticks  for  hercan  of  Garrett's  snuff.  Mama  had  dipped  snuff  for  years,  as  did  most  [REDACTED]  women  of  her  generation;  she  took  great  comfort  in  the  habit,  and  believed  that  it  preserved  her  teeth.  But  she  dipped  snuff  only  in  private,  and  shunned  cigarettes  with  a  Victorian  pas-  sion-any  woman  who  smoked  ciga-  rettes  was  suspect  in  Mama's  book,  and  one  who  both  smoked  and  painted  her  face  was  a  downright  hussy.  &quot;Now,  you  hear  me,  Allie?&quot;  she  said.  &quot;You  watch  out  for  rattlesnakes!&quot;  I  used  the  claw  hammer  to  pull  up  several  small  mesquite  seedlings,  with  more  root  underground  than  stalk  " b"above;  I  peeled  the  thick  part  of  the  sweet-tasting  roots  and  hammered  them  on  a  wagon  tire  until  they  were  shred-  ded  flat,  and  I  watched  warily  for  dia-  mondback  rattlers  that  might  be  lying  along  the  winding  cow  trails.  There  was  another  wagon  outfit  camped  a  half  mile  down  the  road,  with  a  small  boy  just  older  than  Iin  it,  who  was  not  so  wary.  Just  as  we  started  to  eat  sup-  per,  two  horses  galloped  up,  bringing  a  man  and  woman  in  high  panic.  The  man  was  holding  the  barefoot  boy  in  his  arms.  &quot;Rattlesnake  bite!&quot;  he  cried  shrilly.  &quot;'You  folks  got  any  medicine?  You  know  what  to  do?&quot;  Mama  and  Dee  both  knew  what  to  do.  Dee  tied  a  thong  of  rawhide  around  the  boy's  leg,  just  above  his  ankle,  and  used  it  for  a  tourniquet.  Mama  slashed  the  two  needlelike  punctures  on  his  ankle  with  the  sharp  blade  of  a  skin-  ning  knife  and  made  the  wound  bleed  freely;  both  parents  held  theboy,  who  was  screaming  more  in  fright  than  pain.  Then  Mama  poured  all  the  kerosene  we  had  into  a  tin  washbasin  and  thrust  the  boy's  foot  into  it.  The  kerosene  immediately  took  on  a  scum  from  what  appeared  to  be  weeks  of  accumulated  [REDACTED]  soil.  With  an  expression  of  disgust,  Mama  skimmed  this  off,  and  in  the  lantern  light  everybody  thought  he  could  see  the  venom  being  drawn  out,  mak-  ing  a  green  thread  in  the  kerosene.  An  hour  later,  the  boy  was  all  right,  except,  as  Floyd  said,  his  feet  didn't  match.  One  was  brown  and  well  encrusted  with  dirt;  the  other  had  a  slightly  swollen  ankle  and  had  been  cleaned  and  blistered  a  fiery  red  by  the  kerosene.  Ma-  ma  rubbed  cold  bacon  grease  on  it,  and  the  cou-  ple  got  back  on  their  horses,  stammering  their  thanks.  Mama  told  Floyd  and  Bert  and  me  that  if  she  ever  caught  us  with  feet  like  that  she  would  take  a  mesquite  switch  to  us.  Next  morning,  we  drove  into  Ozona.  Mama  had  never  had  a  place  of  her  own  in  the  twenty-seven  years  she'd  been  married,  and  she  sat  on  the  wagon  seat  and  wept  quietly  when  she  saw  the  two-hundred-dollar  house.  It  wasn't  much  to  look  at-a  blocky-looking  un-  painted  frame  structure  of  only  two  rooms,  already  gray  with  weather.  It  had  no  gallery,  and  I  thought  thefront  looked  like  a  face,  with  the  single  door  for  a  mouth  and  two  high-silled  win-  dows  at  either  side  for  eyes.It  stood  on  the  south  side  of  a  rocky  hill,  on  a  flat  ledge  of  white  limestone  rock  that  covered  an  area  about  the  size  of  a  double  city  lot.  Mama  dried  her  eyes  and  said  she  had  never  in  all  her  life  lived  in  a  place  with  sidewalks.  The  very  first  thing  she  did  was  to  get  out  her  broom  and  sweep  the  rock  yard  while  we  moved  her  things  into  the  house;  except  when  it  rained,  she  swept  the  vard  every  day,  and  she  scolded  us  whenwe  tracked  mud  upon  it.  A  yard  of  Italian  marble  wouldn't  have  been  any  more  beautiful  to  her.  Those  were  Mama's  happiest  years.  With  Dee  and  Jay  doing  the  work-  they  had  helped  Papa  when  he  worked  as  a  carpenter-we  built  two  other  rooms  and  a  long  front  gallery  on  the  house,  and  painted  it.  As  soon  as  we were  settled,  Jay  got  a  job  on  a  ranch,  and  after  that  we  saw  him  and  Dee  infrequently.  Their  jobs  were  often  as  far  as  eightymiles  from  town,  and  it  took  two  days  for  them  to  come  in  by  horseback-longer  in  a  wagon.  Floyd  and  Bert,  who  hadgone  to  school  when-  ever  we'd  lived  long  enough  in  a  place  that  had  a  school,  went  into  the  fifth  and  eighth  grades,  and  now  Mama,  in  all  innocent  and  loving  pride,  decided  it  was  time  for  me  to  start.  I  had  learned  to  read  at  the  age  of  three,  and  could  write  a  little,  and  at  five  I  was  enjoy-  ing  the  works  of  G.  A.  Henty,  Horatio  Alger,  Jr.,  Oliver  Optic,  and  a  series  of  books  describing  the  endless  adven-  tures  of  Jack  Harkaway.  Mama  con-  sidered  me  precocious,  and  persuaded  the  teacher  that  I  belonged  in  the  sec-  ond  grade.  That  was  one  mistake.  The  other  was  that  she  sent  me  off  the  first  day  dressed  like  a  character  in  a  comic  strip-Buster  Brown.  I  wore  a  Buster  Brown  linen  suit;  I  had  shoulder-length  red  curls.  There  were  two  fights  the  first  day,  with  boys  who  yanked  the  curls  and  called  me  &quot;little  girl;&quot;  I  came  home  with  my  nose  still  bleeding.  Floyd  went  straight  to  the  heart  of  the  mat-  ter.  While  Mama  was  cooking  supper,  he  ap-  peared  outside  a  win-  dow  at  the  front  and  said,  &quot;Psst!  [REDACTED]  your  head  out  here,  Allie!&quot;  He  had  a  pair  of  large  sheep  shears  in  his  hand,  and  he  cut  the  red  curls  so  close  that  my  scalp  was  nicked  in  several  places.  When  Mama  saw  what  he'd  done,  she  cried,  and  she  put  some  of  the  curls  in  the  family  Bible,  but  she  didn't  whip  Floyd,  as  she  would  have  whipped  Bert  or  me;  Floyd  only  laughed  when  she  whipped  him.  After  that,  school  was  a  little  more  en-  durable,  but  it  contin-  ued  to  give  me  an  in-  feriority  complex,  and  I  never  could  explain  it  to  Mama.  Some  of  the  boys  in  the  second  grade  were  ten  years  old,  and  twice  my  size;  some  in  the  fourth  grade  (the  first  four  grades  were  housed  in  one  building)  wore  boots  and  spurs,  rode  horses  to  school,  chewed  " b"tobacco  on  the  sly,  and  thought  it  was  great  fun  to  spit  in  their  inkwells  when  the  teacher  wasn't  looking.  They  pushed  me  around  in  the  games  at  recess,  not  with  any  intentional  cruelty  but  sim-  ply  because  of  physical  disparity.  And  they  all  had  fathers.  I  had  not  missed  Papa  before,  but  suddenly  he  became  very  important  to  me.  I  invented  things  about  him,  build-  ing  on  what  my  brothers  remembered  and  the  tales  they  toldof  his  accom-  plishments  and  eccentricities,  The  house  Papa  had  roped  out  of  the  Brazos  be-  came  a  Colonial  mansion  with  four  white  columns  holding  up  the  gallery.  Papa  probably  had  killed  several  men  in  a  shooting  feud  he  was  once  sup-  posedly  involved  in,  and  had  notches  on  his  gun  to  prove  it.  Papa  became  a  legend,  eight  feet  tall,  and  the  legend  served  me  well  until  I  was  twelve  years  old-and  then  we  had  word  from  Papa  himself.  It  came  through  Papa's  sister,  my  Aunt  Dotia  Rogers,  who  had  been  living  in  Ozona  for  a  couple  ofyears.  Papa  wrote  that  he  was  in  [REDACTED],  go-  ing  through  the  successive  revolutions  of  Madero  and  Huerta,  and  the  troubled  times  of  Carranza.  He  had  been  work-  ing  for  American  mining  interests,  and  had  been  pinned  down  in  the  trenches,  under  fire.  It  sounded  like  a  G.  A.  Henty  &quot;With  Madero  in  Mex-  ico&quot;-and  I  pressed  Aunt  Dotia  for  de-  tails.  She  could  not  tell  me  much;  Papa  wrote  briefly,  on  the  backs  of  picture  postcards.  But  she  said  Papa  had  helped  move  some  silver  bullion  to  a  place  of  safety,  and  the  federal  forces  had  just  defeated  the  rebels  in  a  pitched  battle.  Floyd  looked  down  his  nose  at  the  picture  postcards  and  said,  &quot;Well,  the  Old  Man's  got  himself  in  a  mess  again,&quot;  but  I  saw  Papa  leading  those  federal  forces  on  a  white  charger.  To  me,  Papa  was  Lancelot  and  Robin  Hood,  Davy  Crockett  and  Sam  [REDACTED]  and  Pecos  Bill  all  rolled  into  one,  and  I  longed  for  him  to  come  home.  But  Papa  didn't  come.  READING  Horatio  Alger,  Jr.,  had  taught  me  thata  man  must  make  his  own  way  in  the  world.  In  a  couple  of  years,  when  I  was  twelve,  a  war  broke  out  in  Europe,  and  I  observed  that  nobody  in  Ozona  was  selling  news-  papers.  I  wrote  to  the  [REDACTED]  [REDACTED]  Ster-  Telegram,  and  one  of  Amon  Carter's  minions  sent  me  thirty  newspapers  that  were  only  a  day  old  by  the  time  they  arrived  from  the  nearest  railroad  point.  In  fine  print  in  the  logotype,  the  price  was  given  as  two  cents  a  copy-their  cost  to  me  was  four-fifths  of  a  cent-  but  Idid  not  read  the  fine  print,  and   the  ranchmen  of  Ozona,  already  grow-  ing  fabulously  wealthy,  had  no  usefor  pennies.  I  sold  the  papers  at  a  nickel  apiece,  and  was  soon  earning  more  than  a  dollar  a  day.  After  a  few  months,  when  I  had  enough  money  saved  up,  I  bought  a  second-hand  popcorn-and-  peanut  machine,  arranged  to  store  it  in  the  local  pool  hall  at  night,  sweeping  out  thepool  hall  at  five-thirty  every  morn-  ing  in  lieu  of  a  storage  fee,  arranged  to  buy  my  supplies  wholesale  through  one  of  the  three  stores  in  Ozona,  and  the  fall  I  was  thirteen  and  in  the  first  year  of  high  school,  I  was  earn-  ing  four  and  five  dollars  aday.  This  was  as  much  as  Dee  and  Jay  made  between  them.  I  took  over  Mama's  support,  and  was  able  to  provide  her  with  what  we  considered  great  luxuries-a  new  kerosene  cook-  stove  and  atable-model  Victrola.  The  Stockman,  our  local  weekly,  wrote  me  up  as  Ozona's  coming  businessman;  the  Boy  Scouts  elected  me  senior  patrol  leader;  a  couple  of  girls  I  had  ogled  at  a  distance  smiled  at  me  as  they  passed  by  my  stand  when  the  popcorn  was  making  asmall  glassed-in  snowstorm.  I  could  afford  to  look  more  critically  at  the  world  and  its  imperfections.  In  my  own  mind,  at  least,  I  was  a  man,  and  I  could  do  without  Papa.   It  was  not  long  after  this,  in  1915,  that  Papa  chose  to  return  to  his  family.  I  came  home  from  school  one  autumn  afternoon,  the  mist  cool  on  my  face  as  I  stepped  around  the  brimming  pot-  holes  in  Mama's  clean  rock  yard,  to  find  Mama  in  the  kitchen,  very  flustered  about  something.  My  first  thought  was  that  she  was  having  trouble  again  with  the  new  kerosene  stove.  Bert  and  I  had  been  called  upon  several  times  to  carry  the  stove  a  long  way  into  the  rock  yard,  where  ifit  was  going  to  explode  it  could  do  so  without  danger  to  the  house.  But  it  wasn't  the  stove.  Mama  looked  at  me  strange-  ly,  and  tookhold  of  my  hand.  That  was  kid  stuff-something  she  hadn't  done  for  years.  &quot;Come  in  here  with  me,  Allie,&quot;  she  said,  in  a  strained  voice.  Then  I  knew  that  something  must  have  happened  to  Dee  or  J  ay  out  on  the  ranches.  Dee's  horse  had  once  taken  him  under  a  tree  when  he  was  running  cattle,  and  a  limb  had  scratched  him  out  of  the  saddle  and  knocked  him  un-  conscious.  Jay  was  always  planning  to  hold  up  the  Southern  Pacific  or  the  Santa  Fe;  he  would  wink  at  me  and  tell  Mama  he  could  make  one  good  haul  and  get  clear  away  into  [REDACTED]  and  we'd  be  rich.  Nobody  knew  for  " b"sure  whether  he  was  joking  or  not.  I  was  scared.  We  went  into  the  living  room,  which  Mama  always  called  &quot;the  house.&quot;  In  the  corner,  a  man  sat  in  Mama's  rock-  ing  chair,  knees  hugging  the  little  wood  stove.  He  was  a  stranger,  short  and  bald,  with  a  fringe  of  gray  hair.  His  eyes  looked  small  and  distant  behind  steel-  rimmed  glasses;  he  had  on  a  brown  suit  that  appeared  to  have  been  worn  in  both  rain  and  blowing  alkali  dust-it  was  shapeless.  On  the  floor  beside  him  was  a  caseof  some  sort,  so  my  mind  leaped  to  theidea  that  he  was  an  agent  come  to  sell  us  lightning  rods,  or  to  repair  Mama's  sewing  machine,  or  per-  haps  to  take  orders  for  enlarged  crayon  portraits  like  those  we  already  had  on  the  walls.  &quot;Howdy,  Adam,&quot;  the  man  said.  Since  he  obviously  didn't  know  my  name,  I  didn't  answer.  For  some  reason,  though,  I  felt  ill  at  ease.  The  stranger  got  up,  and  I  stood  taller  than  he  was.  There  was  an  awkward  silence.  &quot;Do  you  know  who  this  is?&quot;  Mama  asked  me.  I  shook  my  head.  The  stranger  smiled.  &quot;This  is  your  Papa,&quot;  Mama  said  softly.  The  first  shock  of  disillusionment  was  almost  physical.  It  was  like  a  wave,  roll-  ing  me  under,  and  when  the  stranger  sat  down  again,  small  and  drab,  a  hun-  dred  dreams  had  drowned,  and  all  of  the  Old  West  had  shrunk  to  his  size.  I  was  embarrassed  with  shame  for  him.  &quot;Did  you  hear  [REDACTED];  Mama  pleaded.  &quot;This  is  your  Papa.&quot;  &quot;I've  got  to  get  down  to  the  pool  hall  and  fire  up  my  popcorn  wagon,&quot;  I  said.  The  mail  stage  would  be  com-  ing  in,  and  there  would  be  a  crowd  at  the  post  office.  &quot;You'll  do  nothing  of  the  kind.  Stay  here  and  talkto  your  Papa.&quot;  I  was  halfway  to  the  door,  and  I  came  back  reluctantly.  Papa,  looking  around  the  room,  had  just  discovered  the  enlarged  crayon  portrait  of  the  tin-  type  that  showed  him  and  Mama  soon  after  their  marriage.  There  was  a  bullet  hole  square  between  Papa's  eyes,  and  the  glass  had  not  even  been  re-  paired.  This  was  the  work  of  my  brother  Floyd,  done  about  a  year  be-  fore,  when  he  was  alone  in  the  living  room.  He  laughed  uproariously  at  the  time,  claiming  that  he  had  been  cleaning  the  .22  rifle  and  it  went  off  acciden-  tally.  Neither  Mama  nor  anyone  else  be-  lieved  him;  we  were  all  too  well  trained  in  the  use  of  firearms  to  discharge  a  gun  accidentally,  and  besides,  the  marks-  manship  was  perfect-and  Floyd  never  had  had  any  use  for  Papa.  I  am  sure  the  shooting  was  a  prank,  but  I  could  see  that  it  shattered  whatever  dignity  Papa  may  have  had.  He  said  nothing.  Mama  went  back  to  the  kitch-  en.  I  sat  down,  dreading  the  interview.  &quot;Let's  see,  Adam,&quot;  Papa  said  jovial-  ly.  &quot;You're  about  thirteen.&quot;  &quot;My  name  is  Allie,&quot;  I  said.&quot;T'll  be  fourteen  on  the  twenty-ninth  of  Octo-  ber.&quot;  Papa  studied  me  for  a  moment.  &quot;I  " b"always  wanted  to  name  you  Adam.  She&quot;  -he  nodded  toward  the  kitchen-  &quot;named  you  Allie,  after  an  old  beau.&quot;  &quot;Afteran  old  beau,  my  foot!&quot;  Mama  called  through  the  open  door.  &quot;You  know  very  well  why  I  named  him  Allie.  I  told  you  before  he  was  born.  I  dreamed  that  we  had  a  son  named  Al-  lie  and  he  became  famous.&quot;  Papa  smiled  a  dry,  deprecating  smile,  a  plea  for  man-to-man  understanding.  &quot;I  always  wanted  to  name  you  Adam,&quot;  he  said  again,  and  leaned  over  to  pick  up  the  case.  He  laid  it  across  his  baggy  knees,  opened  it,  and  took  out  a  violin,  which  he  held  up  with  an  air  of  rever-  ence.  &quot;Do  you  know  what  this  is?&quot;  he  asked.  My  resentment  rose  at  such  a  ques-  tion.  &quot;Of  course  I  know  what  it  is!  It's  a  fiddlee-a  violin.&quot;  &quot;This  is  a  Stradivarius,&quot;  Papa  said.  &quot;I  found  it  in  [REDACTED],  during  the  panic  of  1909.  I  bought  it  cheap  enough,  considering,  but  it's  worth  a  sightof  money!  With  this,  you  might  sure  enough  become  famous!&quot;  I  grunted.  Papa  turned  the  violin  to  catch  the  light.  It  was  beautiful,  all  right.  He  stroked  it  lovingly,  and  then  heheld  it  out  to  me  so  I  could  read  the  signature.  &quot;I  will  give  you  this  violin,  this  genuine  Stradivarius,&quot;  he  said  slowly  and  impressively,  &quot;on  one  condition.&quot;  I  was  wary.  In  the  first  place,  I  had  never  heard  of  Stradivarius,  and  was  not  really  impressed.  In  the  second  place,  I  was  not  surethat  I  wanted  a  violin  of  any  make;  one  of  my  friends  was  taking  violin  lessons,  and  he  and  all  Ais  friends  regarded  it  as  sissy  stuff.  Then,  Papa's  benevolent  air,  with  its  implied  assumption  of  power  to  bestow  orwithhold,  irritated  me.  Papa  appar-  ently  didn't  know  that  I  was  no  longer  a  child.  He  was  unaware  of  the  fact  that  I  was  the  popcorn-and-peanut  king  of  Ozona,  [REDACTED]-the  articlein  the  week-  ly  paper  had  called  me  that-and  could  damn  well  buy  my  own  violin,  if  I  wanted  one.  &quot;On  one  condition,&quot;  Papa  repeated.  &quot;'That  you  be  known  as  Adam.&quot;  I  remembered  miserable  days  at  Sun-  day  school,  and  the  series  of  infantile  colored  alphabet  cards,  illustrating  Bibli-  cal  scenes,  that  were  passed  out  as  re-  wards  for  attendance.  The  first  one  said,  &quot;A  is  for  Adam.&quot;  It  showed  Adam  lurking  in  brush  up  to  his  navel,  with  nothing  on.  It  met  the  decency  standard  of  the  Southern  Baptist  Church  but  left  a  bad  impression  on  my  young  mind.  Allthe  brush  in  west-  ern  [REDACTED]  was  thorny,  and  at  the  time  I  received  the  card  I  studied  it  and  1  concluded  that  Adam  must  have  been  a  very  uncomfortable  person,  suffering  from  sunburn  and  thorn  scratches  and  chigger  bites.  At  the  same  time,  I  was  trying  to  figure  out  the  vulgar  meaning  of  the  stuff  we  were  being  told  about  the  tree  of  knowledge  and  the  apple.  It  remained  a  mystery,  and  the  name  of  Adam  was  still  synonymous  with  the  raw,  painful,  and  unexplored.  &quot;No,&quot;  Itold  Papa.  &quot;Nothing  doing!&quot;  Papa  looked  hurt.  &quot;Listen  to  the  beautiful  tone,&quot;he  said.  He  tucked  the  Stradivarius  under  his  chin.  He  put  rosin  to  the  bow,  and  sawed  over  the  strings  a  few  times.  My  interest  rose  to  excitement-Papa  was  actually  going  to  play!  Mama  came  out  ofthe  kitchen,  nervously  smoothing  a  freshly  starched  apron.  It  is  very  probable  that  I  knew  more  about  violin  music  than  Papa  did.  We  had  a  neighbor  living  just  across  a  small,  rocky  canyon  near  our  house-a  man  known  as  Albert-the-Dutchman-the-  Bootmaker,  who  owned  a  successionof  fine  Victrolas  and  spent  a  lot  of  money     on  Victor  Red  Seal  records.  Albert-the-  Dutchman-the-Bootmaker  was  an  al-  coholic.  On  Sundays,  he  would  lie  on  a  cot  on  his  mulberry-shaded  gallery,  play  two  or  three  fine  records,  have  two  or  three  fine  drinks,  and  then  berate  the  Victrola  for  running  down.  &quot;Blay!&quot;  he  would  shout,  &quot;Blay!  Gott  damn  it,  haff  I  not  told  you  vun  thousand  times  to  blay?&quot;  'Then  he  would  begin  sailing  Red  Seal  records  out  over  the  canyon,  and  as  a  final  protest  against  the  tech-  nical  shortcomings  of  the  time  he  would  heave  the  Victrola  itself  into  the  yard.  The  next  week,  he  would  buy  a  new  Victrola  and  more  records.  He  got  or-  ders  for  his  cowboy  boots  from  [REDACTED]  to  the  Argentine,  and  made  a  lot  of  money,  and  I  was  in  love  with  Anita,  his  twelve-year-old  daughter.  But  there  were  the  records  he  had  thrown  away.  Some  of  them  landed  in  protecting  cedar  bushes,  quite  unharmed,  and  I  was  not  Papa's  child  for  nothing;  I  re-  garded  them  as  mavericks,  and  built  up  quite  a  collection  for  our  table-model  Victrola,  including  some  Fritz  Kreis-  " b"ler-'&quot;Souvenir,&quot;'  &quot;Humoresque,&quot;  and  &quot;Schon  Rosmarin.&quot;  I  was  waiting  to  hear  Papa  play  like  Fritz  Kreisler  on  his  Stradivarius.  Papa  began  by  patting  his  foot.  One-two-three-four,  he  patted,  and  then  he  launched  into  a  violent  ren-  dition  of  &quot;Turkey  in  the  Straw.&quot;  The  Stradivarius  groaned,  but  Papa  ran  through  a  whole  flock  of  turkeys.  Then  he  played  &quot;Pop  Goes  the  Weasel,&quot;  his  foot  coming  down  hard  on  each  pop.  Mama  sighed,  and  went  back  to  the  kitchen.  &quot;Would  you  change  your  mind,  Adam?&quot;  Papa  asked.  &quot;My  name  ain't  Adam!&quot;  I  said.  It  began  to  rain.  It  was  still  too  early  for  Floyd  and  Bert  to  come  home-Floyd  had  quit  school  and  was  working  in  a  store  owned  by  L.  B.  Cox  &amp;  Co.,  and  Bert  had  a  job  after  school  hours  in  Bob  Cooke's  butcher  shop.  I  was  terribly  alone  with  Papa.  The  rain  droned  on  the  shingled  roof,  and  water  dripped  steadily  into  Mama's  tin  wash  boiler,  at  the  corner  of  the  house.  The  light  faded  and  Mama  brought  in  a  kerosene  lamp,  and  I  was  losing  money  by  the  minute,  because  people  would  be  waiting  for  the  mail.  Papa  ran  through  &quot;Turkey  in  the  Straw&quot;  again.  Then  he  sighed,  and  put  the  Stradivarius  away,  and  I  left,  head-  ing  for  the  pool  hall  and  my  popcorn-  and-peanut  machine,  but  on  the  way  I  noticed  that  Papa  had  a  Studebaker  wagon  standing  under  the  big  live-oak  tree,  below  the  hill  where  our  house  stood.  I  was  old  enough  to  wonder  if  he  planned  to  stay  with  us  and  create  a  gossipy  situation  in  Ozona,  but  I  need  not  have  worried.  Before  I  left  the  rock  yard,  Papa  said  good  night.  He  wrapped  the  Stradivarius  case  in  a  bed-  ding  roll  and  drove  down  to  the  wagon  yard,  where  he  could  build  a  fire  and  camp  out.  HE  return  of  a  prodigal  parent  might  have  been  expected  to  call  for  a  gathering  of  the  clan,  but  it  didn't.  Dee  and  Jay  rode  in  from  the  ranches  and  visited  with  him  briefly  at  the       41  wagon  yard.  Floyd  said  he  was  too  busy  at  the  store  to  go  calling.  &quot;I'll  just  swanny!&quot;  Mama  said,  using  her  strong-  est  expletive.  &quot;I  think  you  boys  ought  to  show  your  Papa  a  little  more  respect.  After  all,  he's  gettingold.&quot;  &quot;He  hasn't  changed  much,&quot;  Jay  said.  &quot;You  remember  him,  Allie?&quot;  I  said  I  didn't  know.  If  I  remem-  bered  him  at  all,  he  sure  had  shrunk.  &quot;Well,&quot;  Dee  said  thoughtfully,  &quot;I  reckon  he  has  shrunk  a  little.  He's  kind  of  falling  in  on  himself,  the  way  a  man  does  when  he  gets  old.&quot;  &quot;Your  Papa's  not  old,&quot;  Mama  said,  reversing  herself.  &quot;He's  just  in  his  fifties,  and  that's  the  prime  of  life.  But  he's  been  having  some  eye  trouble.  The  doctor  told  him  to  go  back  to  the  piney-  woods  country,  where  there  isn't  so  much  glare.&quot;  &quot;I  don't  feel  sorry  for  him,&quot;  Floyd  said.  &quot;He  never  did  anything  for  us!&quot;  Papa  came  up  to  the  house  a  few  times  and  atea  few  meals  with  us.  Once,  he  brought  his  violin  along,  to  play  for  Dee.  Dee  listened  respectfully  to  &quot;Turkey  in  the  Straw,&quot;  and  with-  held  comment.  Then  he  shook  hands  with  Papa  and  saddled  his  horse  and  went  back  to  his  ranch  job,  and  what-  ever  there  had  been  of  family  unity  fell  apart;  Dee  had  been  the  real  head  of  the  family  for  more  than  ten  years.  Papa  did  not  go  east  to  the  piney-  woods  country.  It  rained,  and  he  re-  mained  in  Ozona  about  ten  days,  until  the  roads  dried.  Then,  one  Sunday  aft-  ernoon,  he  came  to  the  house  with  a  spring  in  his  step  and  an  air  of  excite-  ment  about  him.  He  was  there  to  tell  us  goodbye.  He  had  heard  about  some  &quot;new  country.&quot;  It  was  west  of  the  Pecos,  a  couple  of  hundred  miles  away,  and  far  down  in  the  Big  Bend  of  the  Rio  Grande.  Papa  had  passed  by  on  the  north  of  it  once,  long  ago.  It  was  the  kind  of  country  you  can  see  from  a  long  way  off.  &quot;It's  wild,  and  there's  a  lot  of  it!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;Mountains!  Not  little  rocky  anthills  like  you've  got  around  here,  but  sure-enough  moun-  tains!&quot;  He  looked  at  me.  &quot;Better  pack  your  duds  and  come  with  me,  Adam.&quot;  &quot;My  name's  Allie,&quot;  I  said.  For  a  moment,  Papa  stood  beside  the  wagon  looking  out  over  the  west-  ern  hills  where  the  rimrock  ran  all  of  a  level  toward  the  Rio  Grande,  as  if  he  could  seefar  beyond  the  hills,  into  to-  morrow  and  the  next  day.  &quot;Like  I  told  you,  she  named  you  Allie,  after  an  old  beau,&quot;  he  said.  Mama  didn't  say  anything.  Her  nose  was  red,  which  was  a  sign  she  was  about  tocry.  Papa  said,  &quot;Well,  I  reckon  I'd  bet-  " b"ter  roll.&quot;  He  stepped  on  the  hub  of  the  front  wheel,  and  I  saw  that  he  hadon  a  pair  of  new  boots.  He  climbed  up  briskly,  and  unwrapped  the  reins  from  the  brake  handle.  At  that  moment,  mounting  the  Studebaker  wagon,  he  took  on  stature,  and  importance,  and  dignity.  He  settled  himself  on  the  wag-  on  seat,  and  waved  his  hand  to  us.  &quot;Goodbye!&quot;  he  called.  &quot;Adios!&quot;  We  said  goodbye,  Mama  turned  away  and  looked  up  at  the  house  on  the  rocks.  The  trace  chains  jingled  and  the  wheels  turned.  Papa  did  not  look  back.  He  drove  across  a  vacant  lot  to  reach  the  main  road,  and  the  earth  there  was  still  soft  from  the  rain.  The  tracks  he  left  were  deep.  They  ran  straight  west.  NINETEEN  HUNDRED  AND  SIXTEEN,  just  a  few  weeks  away,  was  a  year  notorious  along  the  Mexican  border,  with  Pancho  Villa  on  the  loose  and  a  *  score  of  lesser  bendidos  ranging  and  raiding  from  Piedras  Negras  to  Juarez.  Papa  had  been  gone  only  a  few  months  when  a  telegram  came  from  the  sheriff  at  Marathon.  It  said  that  Papa  was  among  several  persons  killed  in  a  Mexi-  can  raid  on  Boquillas,  [REDACTED],  but  added,  mysteriously,  that  his  body  had  not  been  recovered.  Mama  received  the  news  dry-eyed,  only  half  believing  it.  Why  should  the  Mexicans,  or  anyone  else,  carry  Papa's  body  away?  When  Dee  heard  the  news,  he  said  he  had  better  go  down  into  the  Big  Bend  and  in-  vestigate.  Jay  and  Floyd  advised  against  the  trip.  &quot;If  he's  dead,  he's  dead,&quot;  Floyd  said.  &quot;If  he's  alive,  he  can  takecare  of  himself,  and  we'll  hear  from  him  someday.  Besides,  what  did  he  ever  do  for  you?&quot;  Dee  went,  nevertheless.  Boquillas,  [REDACTED],  was  nothing  but  a  ranch  store  and  post  office,  across  the  wide  Rio  s  ose|  -  Grande  canyon  from  a  Mexi-  can  town-a  cluster  of  adobe  houses-also  called  Boquillas.  It  was  accessible  only  by  horse-  back  and  pack  mule,  or  by  a  hundred-mile  wagon  road  that  wound  into  the  Chisos  Moun-  tains.  Dee  was  gone  for  two  weeks.  He  found  men  around  Boquillas  who  were  hiding  out  from  the  law  on  both  sides  of  the  Rio  Grande,  and  a  few  small,  scattered,  trigger-jumpy  cavalry  patrols  who  couldn't  afford  to  take  chances.  He  learned  nothing  conclusive  about  Papa.  Survivors  of  the  raidtold  him  that  the  bandidos  had  come  at  night,  shouting  both  &quot;Vive  Villa!&quot;  and  &quot;Vive  Carranza!,&quot;  so  that  no  one  knew  who  they  were.  They  rode  around  a  house  where  eight  cavalrymen  were  bil-  leted-it  had  galvanized-iron  walls  and  a  secaguista-thatched  roof.  They  had  fired  shots  into  the  house  and  then  set  fire  to  the  sacaguista,  which  is  a  coarse  straw.  Papa  was  among  the  people  inside,  they  said,  and  he  had  been  shot  down  as  they  ran  out  to  escape  being  roasted  alive.  But  one  man  swore  he  had  seen  Papa  on  the  day  after  the  raid-on  foot,  leading  a  pack  mule  along  a  rugged  canyon,  heading  westward.  'The  man  added  that  Papa  was  dressed  like  a  Mexican,  and  was  dark  as  a  Mexican.  The  Studebaker  wagon  was  gone,  perhaps  burned  in  the  raid,  and  none  of  Papa's  things  were  found,  not  even  the  Stradivarius  that  could  have  made  me  famous.  MANY  years  afterward,  Dee  and  I  went  to  Boquillas-so  long  afterward  that  we  rode  in  a  jeep  in-  stead  of  a  Studebaker  wagon.  The  Big  Bend  of  [REDACTED]  was  still  remote,  still  wide  and  wild  and  mysterious,  and  some  of  its  rocky,  winding  canyons  had  never  been  explored.  We  found  some  old-  timers  who  remembered  Papa  in  1916.  Sure,  they  said,  Papa  had  been  killed  in  the  raid.  Sure,  he  had  been  seen  headed  west  the  following  day.  Papa  had  become  a  legend  again."