 b"UNTIL  I  went  away  to  college,  l  I  thirteen  yearsago,  I  lived  about  fifteen  miles  east  of  [REDACTED],  on  my  parents  farm  in  the  Sammamish  [REDACTED],  which  is  named  after  the  gentle  stream  that  meanders  through  it.  Our  farm,  like  the  othersmall  but  prosper-  ous  truck  farms  in  the  region,  was  set  on  the  lower  slopes  of  the  valley,  above  the  fertile  bottom  land.  In  summer,  the  river  provided  irrigation  for  the  crops;  in  winter,  it  would  rise  and  spread  a  foot  of  water  over  the  whole  valley  bottom.  When  the  water  froze,  I  re-  member,  we  would  skate  over  clearly  visible  rows  of  cabbage  stalks  left  stand-  ing  after  the  harvest.  The  steep  upper  slopes  ofthe  valley  were  uninhabited,  and  covered  by  a  dense  undergrowth  that  had  replaced  the  virgin  forest.  This  jungle  consisted  of  twisted  vine  maples,  weedy  alders,  acres  of  salmon-  berry  brambles,  yellow-green  ferns  seven  or  eight  feet  high,  and  clumps  of  devil's-clubs-a  combination  of  tree  and  vine  that  towered  wickedly  over  the  brush,  its  dark-brown  stems  covered  with  gigantic  thorns,  its  curling  arms  brandishing  thistly  leaves  twice  the  size  of  a  human  head.  Patches  of  second-growth  fir,  tall  and  dense  enough  to  shade  out  the  writhing  confusion  about  them,  furnished  the  only  relief  from  this  chaos.  In  swamps  lying  be-  tween  some  of  the  steeper  ridges,  streams  trickled  around  hummocks  blooming  with  skunk  cabbages,  then  flowed  down  through  the  lower  fields  to  the  river.  The  five  hills  on  our  farm  rambled  west,  and  finally  merged  into  a  rumpled  highland  that  descended  into  the  waters  of  Lake  [REDACTED].  Fifteen  years  ago,  you  could  ride  across  the  lake  fora  dimeon  a  fine  old  ferryboat  called  the  Leschi,  which  was  replaced  three  years  later  by  an  older,  smaller,  slower  boat  called  the  Duwamish,  and  eight  years  after  that  by  a  bridge.  The  hills  that  rise  on  the  west  side  of  the  lake  have  been  swallowed  up  by  the  city  of  [REDACTED],  which  seemed  far  away  when  my  sis-  ters  and  I  were  little  girls.  In  those  days,  coyotes  and  wildcats,  which  556e6974656420537461746573ites  went  to  the  zoo  to  see,  roamed  wild  in  the  hills  on  our  side  of  the  lake,  hunting  the  rabbits,  gophers,  squirrels,  quail,  and  mountain  beavers  that  abounded  there.  Occasionally,  in  the  spring,  a  stupefied  black  bear  would  come  yawning  and  starving  out  of  his  long  buried  sleep  in  the  mountains  and  stray  down,  in  search  of  food,  into  our  valley,  where  he  would  sometimes  manage  to  involve  himself  ina  foolish  encounter  with  humans.  I  remember  one  bleary  fellow  who  was  grubbing  in  the  tall  grass  along  a  hedgerow  sepa-  rating  one  field  from  another  when  a  young  field  hand,  unaware  of  his  pres-  ence,  drove  a  cat  tractor  at  him,  its  revolving  treads  tossing  chunks  of  matted  earth  into  the  air,  its  engine  emitting  a  thunderous  challenge.  The  panic-stricken  bear  shot  up  out  of  the  grass  on  his  hind  legs,  and  the  equally  frightened  tractor  driver  leaped  from  his  seat  and  ran,  leaving  a  twelve-  thousand-dollar  machine  to  wander  aimlessly  into  an  eight-foot  irrigation  ditch.  The  owner  of  the  tractor  was  not  amused,  but  we  and  the  rest  of  the  reighbors  were  delighted  not  only  by  the  incident  itself  but  also  by  the  idea  that  the  wilderness  could  still  rout  civilization.  Life  in  the  valley  remained  un-  changed  for  many  years.  Only  two  or  three  new  houses  went  up-one  of  them  built  by  a  furniture  dealer  from  [REDACTED]  who,  to  everyone's  amusement,  put  a  sign  in  his  driveway  naming  his  five  acres  the  Fancy-Free  Ranch.  People  went  on  harvesting  their  flowers,  fruit,  and  vegetables,  and  carting  them  off  to  the  mar-  kets  in  [REDACTED].  Tank  trucks  filled  with  local  milk,  headed  for  the  creameries  across  the  lake,  con-  tinued  to  bump  along  the  narrow  gravel  road  to  the  ferry  slip.  [REDACTED]  morning  when  I  was  fourteen  and  the  Second  World  War  was  less  than  a  year  old,  a  legend  came  to  inhabit  the  valley.  One  of  the  younger  boys  on  the  school  bus  said  that  the  night  beforea  mountain  lion  had  killed  and  dragged  away  one  of  his  father's  goats  during  the  night.  What  was  his  proof?  Blood,  a  missing  goat,  and,  in  the  goat  pen,  a  single  great  cattrack.  We  were  all  openly  skeptical,  but  only  be-  cause  we  wanted  so  much  to  believe  him.  Like  the  other  children,  I  pretended  not  to  be  impressed,  but  I  immediately  began  planning  to  cut  upthroughour  woods  that  night  after  school  and  geta  look  at  that  track.  It  was  four  or  five  miles  to  the  boy's  place  by  road,  but  not  more  than  two  if  you  went  straight  over  our  hills.  I  decided  to  take  my  Ernest  Thompson  Seton  book,  with  its  draw-  ings  of  animal  tracks,  to  make  the  iden-  tification.  But  as  the  morning  wore  on,  I  began  picturing  the  thing  that  might  be  hiding  in  those  woods,  where  twenty  head  of  cattle  could  easily  lose  them-  selves,  and  I  felt  relieved  when  I  heard     " b"rain  strike  the  school  building  and  real-  ized  there  would  be  no  track  left  to  identify.  Then  I  wondered  if  there  really  was  a  beast  out  there  in  the  rain,  backed  in  under  a  roof  of  brush,  his  stomach  full  of  goat,  his  yellow  eyes  closed  in  sleep,  and  his  black-lipped  muz-  zle  resting  on  two  broad  white  paws.  By  the  time  I  got  home  that  night,  my  father  had  heard  the  news.  He  was  skeptical,  too,  until  a  few  days  later,  when  the  cougar  got  a  late-fall  calf  not  far  from  the  scene  of  its  first  kill.  This  time,  the  game  warden  went  out  to  have  a  look,  and  discovered  what  he  said  were  the  tracks  of  an  exceptionally  large  mountain  lion-an  old  one,  he  decided,  that  couldn't  run  down  a  deer  any  more  and  had  strayed  from  the  mountains  to  find  easier  hunting.  Even  after  we  began  to  hear  the  lion  scream  at  night  (he  sounded,  I  thought,  like  a  woman  being  murdered  ),  some  of  us  still  couldn't  really  believe  in  him.  It  seemed  incredible  that  such  a  primitive  enemy  could  be  ranging  across  a  land  that  had  so  long  been  neatly  and  legally  ruled  off  in  acres  and  sections  and  water  rights.  The  ordered  miles  of  cabbages  and  lettuce  we  looked  down  on  from  our  living-room  windows  scoffed  at  the  whole  idea  of  a  mountain  lion  at  our  back.  Perhaps  to  make  surethat  he  really  did  exist,  my  father  tried  to  organize  a  hunt,  but  the  lion  was  a  wary  old  transient,  and  not  enough  men  were  willing  to  take  part  in  what  might  well  turn  out  to  be  a  fruitless  expedition-  not  even  those  few  who  had  lost  a  calf  or  a  goat.  In  fact,  those  whose  animals  had  been  killed  now  formed  a  kind  of  aristocracy.  And  anyway,  why  bother  to  confirm  the  existence  of  the  animal?  He  wasn't  doing  that  much  harm,  and  wasn't  a  live  legend  more  exciting  than  a  cougar  skin  nailed  to  some  farmhouse  wall?  I  can't  help  thinking  that  that  was  the  way  the  men  felt,  whether  they  knew  it  themselves  or  not.  FTER  a  few  months,  during  which  we'd  hear  nothing  of  the  lion  for  weeks  at  a  time,  I  began  to  have  some  complex  feelings  abouthim.His  scream  in  the  middle  of  the  night  sometimes  woke  me  up,  but  after  the  first  shock  of  terror  had  passed  I  would  lie  in  bed  feeling  grateful  that  it  was  only  the  cougar  and  not  the  sound  of  Japanese  bombs  falling  on  [REDACTED].  We  were  liv-  ing  in  a  partial-blackout  area,  and  the  war,  in  those  early  months  of  defeat,  seemed  menacingly  close.  Air-raid  warnings  had  been  posted  all  over  the  school,  the  church,  the  post  office,  and  the  community  center,  where  the  Girl " b"Scouts  met.  There  seemed  to  be  little  that  ordinary  people  could  do,  except  con-  scientiously  adjust  their  blackout  blinds  and  wait.  I  remember  trying  to  mem-  orize  the  instructions  on  how  to  cope  with  incendiary  bombs.  (&quot;Never  use  a  hose.  Incendiary  bombs  are  too  hot  to  be  extinguished  by  water,  and  a  stream  of  water  will  only  spread  the  fire.  Douse  them  with  sand.&quot;  )  I  always  wondered  how  you  could  get  close  enough  to  any-  thing  that  hot  to  douse  it  with  sand,  even  assuming  that  you  happened  to  be  hold-  ing  abucket  of  it  when  a  bomb  came  through  the  ceiling.  The  lion,  on  the  other  hand,  represented  a  threat  that  could  be  dealt  with  rationally;  all  we  had  to  do  was  stay  out  of  the  hills  and  we  would  be  safe,  Of  course,  there  were  disadvantages  in  not  being  able  to  trust  the  woods.  My  sisters  and  I  couldn't  go  alone  to  saw  down  the  Christmas  tree  and  bring  it  back  in  independent  triumph.  We  went  with  my  father,  who  carried  his  gun.  When  spring  came,  we  knew  that  there  were  whole  hillsides  laced  with  vines  of  delicate  wild  blackberries,  but  we  couldn't  go  and  pick  them.  Most  of  all,  I  missed  taking  some  of  my  favorite  hikes.  That  spring,  as  usual,  the  cow  man-  aged  to  hide  her  newborn  calf  some-  where  in  the  five  hills,  and  we  spent  some  anxious  hours  when  she  came  down  to  feed  at  the  barn,  until  she  felt  moved  to  wander  back  to  it  and  we  could  follow  her.  The  presence  of  the  big  cat  seemed  very  realto  us  then;  we  were  sure  that  he  was  stalking  the  lone  baby.  Luckily,  we  found  the  calf  first.  As  my  father  nudged  it  to  its  feet  and  coaxed  it  back  to  safety,  I  felt  that  the  lion  must  be  very  near  indeed-prob-  ably  crouching  somewhere  behind  us  in  the  brush.  My  first  sight  of  the  calf's  tottering  vulnerability  made  me  certain  that  the  lion  existed  and  that  we,  too,  had  been  in  danger.  ATE  one  autumn  afternoon,  when  my  father  and  mother  were  in  town  shopping,  I  was  out  hauling  wood  with  my  five-year-old  sister.  We  were  a  little  distance  from  the  house,  and  the  cold  dusk  was  settling  around  us.  Sud-  denly,  not  three  hundred  yards  away,  the  lion  screamed,  the  sound  exploding  across  the  valley.  'The  first  scream  was  quickly  followed  by  a  second,  and  a  third,  each  one  breathtaking  in  the  in-  tensity  of  its  fury.  Then,  as  the  echoes  faded,  we  heard  the  maniacal  barking  of  many  dogs,  and  I  realized  that  the  old  cougar  had  been  treed.  The  classic  hatred  ofcatfor  dog  and  dog  forcat  blown  into  such  massive  scale  struck" b"me  as  deliriously  funny,  and  I  stood  there  in  the  cold,  my  arms  full  of  wood,  laughing  while  my  little  sister  cried  and  begged  me  to  take  her  back  to  the  house.  I  told  her  to  go  by  herself,  but  she  only  clung  to  the  sleeve  of  my  jacket.  The  lion  was  apparently  at  the  very  edge  of  our  woods,  close  to  the  corner  of  the  pigpen,  and  he  must  havebeen  really  hungry  to  be  hunting  at  that  time  ofday.  The  dogs  from  the  entire  val-  ley  began  arriving  for  the  fight.  They  came  yelping  across  our  fields,  shedding  civilization  at  every  bound,  their  jaws  foaming  and  their  tongues  stretched  out  purple  from  the  effort  of  getting  to  the  scene  of  action.  When  my  parents  drove  into  the  yard  a  few  minutes  later,  my  father  jumped  out  of  the  car.  &quot;Get  my  gun!&quot;  he  said.  &quot;John,  you  can't  go  up  there  in  this  light!&quot;  my  mother  shrieked.  &quot;You  know  you  can't  see  well  enough  to  hit  anything.  The  dogshave  got  him  so  wild  he's  liable  to  spring  right  out  of  the  tree  on  you.  You  wouldn't  have  a  chance!  You  can't  go!&quot;  My  father  must  have  seen  her  logic,  though  he  later  claimed  he  didn't  go  only  because  of  &quot;the  women's  hyster-  ics.&quot;  He  grumbled  a  good  deal  and  seemed  very  envious  of  the  dogs.  After  it  had  been  dark  a  long  time,  the  screams  stopped.  The  next  morning,  there  was  no  sign  of  the  cougar,  so  he  must  either  have  waited  out  the  dogs  or  somehow  given  them  the  slip.  Per-  haps  as  the  dogs  lost  their  voices  they  began  regaining  their  sanity  and  re-  membered  their  overdue  dinners.  We  heard  some  of  them  come  slinking  back  through  our  yard,  pausing  occasionally  to  throw  hoarse  insults  over  their  shoul-  ders  before  returning  home  to  recuper-  ate  from  their  heroism.  S  far  as  I  know,  nobody  ever  got  himself  a  bounty  and  a  rug.  The  cougar  either  died  of  old  age  or  moved  on  to  another  valley.  I  don't  think  we  ever  heard  him  again,  and  in  a  few  weeks  the  woods  were  once  more  de-  clared  safe.  But  I  was  already  fifteen  by  then,  the  war  no  longer  seemed  quite  8  so  incomprehensible  and  menacing,  and  I  quickly  became  immersed  in  the  ac-  tivities  of  the  new  school  year.  I  wan-  dered  freely  in  the  woods,  I  worried  only  about  boys,  and  I  hardly  ever  bothered  to  wonder  what  had  become  of  our  lion.  Now,  with  my  husband  and  two  small  children,  I  go  home  to  that  valley  in  the  summer  to  escape  the  city  smog.  The  valley  is  filling  up  with  ranch  houses  owned  by  people  who  commute  over  the  bridge  to  [REDACTED].  Most  of  them  " b"have  signs  in  their  driveways  like  the  one  the  furniture  dealer  put  up,  so  that  their  city  friends  will  have  no  trouble  finding  Pine  Tree  Cottage  or  Lazy  Acres.  The  little  gravel  road  is  now  an  asphalt  highway,  and  occasionally  a  fine  free  collie  who  overestimated  his  free-  dom  lies  stiff  and  bloody  beside  it.  An-  other  pontoon  bridge  will  soon  float  another  four-lane  highway  across  the  brisk  waves  of  Lake  [REDACTED],  and  businessmen  in  the  valley's  little  town  rub  their  hands  when  they  think  about  it.  From  our  porch,  I  look  down  at  the  lakeof  evening  mist  drifting  over  the  river,  and  I  wonder  when  it  will  begin  to  take  on  the  brown  tinge  of  smog  I  know  so  well,  turning  to  brown  the  rich  green  of  cabbage  stalks  I  no  longer  skate  over.  It  is  sixteen  years  since  the  cougar  left  us,  but  I  know  there  will  never  be  another  lion  in  the  valley.  Taxes  have  made  wilderness  tooex-  pensive  to  let  alone.  My  father  is  going  to  sell  our  five  hills  to  a  developer  of  &quot;view  lots&quot;  that  will  overlook  each  other  down  a  series  of  concrete  terraces.  Perhaps,  for  a  few  years,  an  occasional  stubborn  devil's-club  root  will  burst  through  there  and  crack  a  cement  wall.  But  I  hope  that  lion  went  back  home  to  die.  His  bones  should  never  sleep  be-  neath  a  barbecue  or  a  carport.  "